DOCUMENT_ID: pa1800
TITLE (as printed): Periodical Accounts relative to the Baptist Missionary Society. Vol. I.
AUTHOR: Baptist Missionary Society (Andrew Fuller, secretary, principal compiler)
DATE: 1800 (volume collecting accounts and minutes from 1792 onward; printed by J. W. Morris)
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL: https://archive.org/details/bim_eighteenth-century_periodical-accounts-rela_baptist-missionary-socie_1800
EDITION: London: Button, 1800 (Vol. I of the Society's own serial). Digitized by Internet Archive (Boston Public Library / British and Irish microfilm eighteenth-century collection scan).
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: Internet Archive OCR (djvu), fetched verbatim via curl, uncorrected. Long-s ("ſ") is frequently misread by the OCR as "f" or other characters (e.g. "reſolved" -> "refolved"); left uncorrected per Fetcher rule.
WORD COUNT (approx): 188576
NOTE: PRIMARY. Contains, near its opening pages, the Society's own account of its founding: the Clipstone 1791 proposal, the Nottingham sermon of 31 May 1792, and the verbatim minute of resolutions adopted at the ministers' meeting at Kettering, 2 October 1792, establishing "The Particular Baptist Society for Propagating the Gospel amongst the Heathen," plus the second and third meetings of the "Primary Society" at Northampton (31 Oct. and 13 Nov. 1792). Page numbers below are the printed page numbers visible in the OCR where legible, not inserted markers; many are garbled by the OCR (rendered as stray digits/symbols) given the poor scan quality of this particular volume.
OCR QUALITY: Poor to fair on the long-s passages (occasional errors above 5/100 words in dense paragraphs); the resolutions themselves, checked by hand against the OCR, are legible and words are recoverable. Spot check of the founding-minute passage (three sample stretches of ~100 words each, pp. near the 1792 resolutions): approx. 4-7 errors per 100 words, mostly long-s misreadings (f for s) and stray punctuation -- at or slightly above the 5/100 threshold. Flagged here rather than silently accepted; the transcription is nonetheless usable and the exact quoted strings below were hand-verified character-by-character against this OCR output (not corrected, but confirmed to match the file).
=====BEGIN TRANSCRIPTION=====
8. ns 2 5 bx; EY | . : & 
IO TOS 5 8 Sora 4 1 N * 
8 . x : * "= | 


RELATIVE TO THE. 
1 I | n 
* 7 N "rake 2 


4 


1 


' PRINTED BY J. W, MORRIS, 

0 SOLD. BY BUTTON, LONDON: | A 

AND MAY BE Sos THE BAPTIST 1 IN uv or | i 
THE PRINCIPAL TOWNS IN THE KINGDOM. 


— ng gh or wo 


. l £ ; * f 
1800. ; j 


* 


. 
' 
; 
. 
N . 
— * 
8 
f 4 
Py . 
© 
. 
. 
* " 
* WA" 5 
F £ 
— - - 
1 . 
* 
b v * 's 
* a» 
> * L 
* 2 8 
5 4% Lid - 
4 4 * . 
. * * 
1 . bs * 2 5 
" - * 
7 * n 
* * 7 * 3 
* * * 
1 
—_ r. 
* * 


4 
7 
* 
1 
* 
- 
3 
28 
9 
2 © 
7 
z 
- bl Re 
PO 
* 
I 
Xi 2 
"If 
L * 
* 
— 
— * o 
a 
% 53 
* 
2 5 
"# "pv 
? 1 N 
* 
— 4 1 
4 
E > 
* e 
N 8 
* 9 F 
#— — 
2 7 4 
EG: © 
x A 3 
5 * J 
+\ | wh 
"WO 
2 — 
Xs 
* 2 


= 
— ＋ 0 
* * 


P * "tris 
CFE 18 * * a 
"= 
» 4 
y ＋ 
3 2 4 88 
3 0s £ pe" . I 
* bs a 
7 W 
1 + Es 
ud fu 
5 0 
* * 8 
5 2k 
; Xx * 
8 "44 
2 . 
* now 
. 3 
* 1 
= * 
= , 
A oo 
5 
0 0 
- 
4 


2 
_— 


PERIODICAL ACCOUNTS | 


7 | er 70 * 


A SOCT ETY | 


— th 


' PARTICULAR BAPTISTS, 


Propagating the Gospel among the Heathen. ; 


— 


NARRATIVE 
Of the first * of this 1 _ 


HE origin of this chad} will be found in the rocking 
of our brother Carey's mind, which, for the laſt nine 
or ten years, has been directed to this object with very 
little intermiſſion. His heart appears to have been ſet upon 
the converſion of the heathen before he came to reſide at 
Moulton in 1786. It was there he wrote the manuſcript 
which he has ſince printed, entitled, « An Enquiry into 
the Obligations of Chriſtians to uſe Means for the Con- 
„ 


2 
verſion of the Heathen;“ and his converſations, prayers, 
and ſermons, were moſtly accompanied with ſomething re- 
lative to this ſubject. He poſſeſſed at the ſame time a great 
thirſt for geographieal knowledge, and a remarkable apti- 
tude at learning languages, ſo that his moſt intimate friends 


were for ſeveral years paſt induced to think that he was 
formed for ſome ſuch peculiar IG 


| His deſire that a ſociety might be eſtabliſhed amongſt his 
, Connexions for the propagation of the goſpel among the 
heathen, and that he might have a ſhare in that important 
ſervice, continued and increaſed ; till at length, in the year 
1791, being at a meeting of miniſters at Clipſtone, in 

| Northamptonſhire, after two diſcourſes had been preached 
dy brother Sutcliff and brother Fuller, on jealouſy for the 

Lord of Hefts, and the pernicious influence of delay, he pro- 
poſed a queſtion, «© Whether it were not practicable, and 
our bounden duty, to attempt ſomewhat toward ſpreading 
the goſpel in the heathen world!“ 


As the public ſervice had been attended with more than 
ordinary ſolemnity, ſo this conſideration was managed with 
a good degree of ſerious and earneſt concern to exert our- 
ſelves for the enlargement of the kingdom of our Lord : 
but the chief thing then agreed upon was, to delire brother 
Carey to draw up his thoughts on the ſubjeR, and publiſh 
them. At the next aſſociation of the baptiſt churches, at 
Oakham, June 16, 1791, it was requeſted by the miniſters 
who had been preſent at Clipſtone, that brothers Sutcliff 
and Fuller would print their ſermons above referred to, 
with which requeſt they complied, and theſe were followed 
ſome months afterwards by brother Carey's © ea (Þ 
&c. 

At the next annual meeting of the aſſociation, at Not- 
tingham, May 31, 1792, brother Carey preached a very 


* 3 0 

animating: diſcourſe from Iſai. liv; 2, in which he preſſed 
two things in particular, as expolitory of © lengthening 
our cords, and ſtrengthening our ſtakes,“ viz.—(I.) That 
we ſhould expe# great things—(2.) That we ſhould attempt 

great things. After public worſhip was over the ſubject 
was revived, and a reſolution made, That a plan be pre- 
pared againſt the next miniſters meeting at Kettering, for 
forming a ſociety among 205 Baptiſts for propagating the 
goſpel among the heathen; and brother Carey generouſly 
propoſed to devote whatever profits might ariſe from his 
late publication to the uſe of ſuch a ſociety, 


- Accordingly, at the miniſters meeting at Kettering, 
Ottober 2. 1792, after the public ſervices of the day were 
ended, the miniſters retired to conſult farther on the matter, 
and to lay a foundation at leaſt for a ſociety, when the fol- 


lowing reſolutions were propoſed, and unanimouſly agreed 
to. : Vi ; 


RESOLUTIONS, &c. 


1. Deſirous of making an effort for the propagation of 
the goſpel among the heathen, agreeably to what is re- 
commended in brother Carey's late publication on that 
ſubject, we, whoſe names appear in the ſubſequent ſubſcrip- 


tion, do ſolemnly _ to act in ſociety together for that 
purpoſe. 5 


2. As in the * divided ſtate of chriſtendom, it 
ſeems that each denomination, by exerting itſelf ſeparately, 
is moſt likely to accompliſh the great ends of a miſſion, it 
is agreed that this ſociety be called, The Particular Baptiſt 
Society for Propagating the Goſpel amongſt the Heathen. 


3- As ſuch an undertaking muſt needs be attended with 
expence, we agree immediately to open a ſubſcription for 
the above purpoſe, and to recommend it to others. 


% 


5 

? 

. 

4 

5 

7 

4 
5 
4 
* 

2 
* 
5 * 
5 


4 


4. Every perſon who ſhall ſubſcribe ten pounds at once, 
or ten ſhillings and ſixpence annually, ſhall be colnet Aa 
| mL of the ſociety, | 


5. That the Rev. John Ryland, Reynold Hogg, William 
Carey, John Sutrchff, and Andrew Fuller, be appointed a 
committee, three of whom ſhall be empewered to act in 
carrying into effect the purpoſes of the ſociety. SMC TOE 


6. That the Rev. Reynold Hogg be appointed treaſurer, 
and Rev. en Fuller ſecretary. 


a in; That the ſubſcriptions be paid in at the Northampton 
miniſters meeting, October 31. 1792, at which time the 
ſubject ſhall be confidered more particularly by the com- 


| Mitte ang benen ſubſcribers who may be preſent. 


. Joba Ryland, Reynold Hogg, John Suteliff, 
Andrew Fuller, Abraham Greenwood, Edward Sharman, 
Joſhua Burton, Samuel Pearce, Thomas Blundel, William 
Heighton, John Eayres, Joſeph Timms; whoſe ſubſerip. 
tions in all amounted to 131. 28. 6d. | | 


Second Meeting of the Primary Society at Northampton, 
October 31. 1792. ST, 
Tux ſecretary choſen at the former meeting being ill, 
ſent a written copy of the former reſolutions, with an 
account of two new ſubſcribers of one guinea, one of whom 
engages to continue it annually ; and alſo information from 
brother Carey, who was likewiſe prevented from attending, 


that a gentleman from Northumberland had promiſed to 


ſend him twenty pounds for the weiety, and had ee 85 
further to ſubſcribe four guineas n, RIO | 


Brecher Pearce, of Bermingbem; gave us information 
that having mentioned the buſineſs to his friends, at his 
return from the firſt meeting, and preached upot the ſub. 
je, they were ſo ſuitably affected with the importance of 
the affair, as immediately, without any perſonal application 
to an individual, to offer their generous contributions, which 
they ſent by Mr. Pearce, to the amount of ſeventy nm | 
which he paid into the hands of the treaſurer. arts, 


Our good friends at Birmiagham alſo od a . 
agreeable plan of forming a diftin ſociety in aid of the 
miſſion, for the purpoſe of receiving both occaſional con- 
tributions, and annual, quarterly, or weekly ſubſcriptions, 
and to co-operate by every other means in their power with 
the primary ſociety, in purſuing the grand Piet” we have 
conjointly 1 in view. 


At this meeting at Northampton two other friends ſub- 
ſcribed, and paid two guineas a piece, two more one guinea 
each, and another half a guinea, making fix guineas and a 
half in all, And ſuch members as were preſent of the firſt 
| ſubſcribers, paid their ſubſcriptions into the hands of the 

treaſurer ; who propoſed to put the ſum now received 


into the hands of a banker, who will pay intereſt for the 
ſame. 
The following reſolves were paſled ;— 


1. That the moſt hearty thanks of the primary ſociety 
are due to the congregation in Cannon-ſtreet, Birmingham, 
for their generous exertions in ſo good. a cauſe, 


2. That we cordially approve of the ſtep taken by our 
friends in Birmingham, in forming an aſſiſtant ſociety, to 


6 


act in conjunction * union with the ſociety begun by: the 
Northampton and Leiceſterſhire aſſociation. 


3. That if this plan ſhall meet with the general or in- 
ecreaſing approbation of the Baptiſt churches, we ſhall re- 
joice to find a number of correſponding united ſocieties 
formed in different parts of the kingdom. 


0 4. That brother Pearce, of Birmingham, who was 4 | 
member of the primary ſociety, and is the delegate from the 


ö correſponding ſociety at Birmingham, be conſidered as a 
member of the committee. | 


5. That in order to promote the extenſion of this ſociety, 
it appears proper to print a brief narrative of its riſe and 
plan, accompanied with ſome ſhort addreſs, and ſuch further 
additions as ſhall be determined upon by a meeting of the 
committee at Northampton, November 13, 1792. 


5 | 


Third Meeting of the Primary Society, at Northampton, 
November 13, 1792. 


AFTER ſpending ſome time in prayer, conſultation, and 
reviſing of the preceding narrative, &c., it was further 
_ reſolved, | 


I. That every correſponding ſociety that ſhall be formed 
in different diſtricts, be invited to ſend either two delegates 


to any meeting of the primary ſociety, or one delegate who 
ſhall have two votes. 


2. That all perſons who may be diſpoſed to favour the 
deſign of the ſociety, be invited to ſend their contributions 
to the Rev. R. Hogg, of Thrapſtone, treaſurer, the Rev. 


7 


A. Fuller, of Kettering, ſecretary, or the Rev. S. Pearce, 
ſecretary to the correſponding ſociety at Birmingham,  * 


3 That the ſociety would be truly obliged to any of the 
friends of this deſign, for any hints of information or advice, 
forwarded to the treaſurer or ſecretaries aforeſaid. 

NB. The following articles we wiſh to be examined and 
diſcuſſed in the moſt diligent and impartial manner ;—- 


What qualifications are eſpecially requiſite in miſſion- 
aries? What perſons are known, or ſuppoſed to be both 
| ſuitable and willing to be employed in this buſineſs? What 
advice ſhould be given the miſſionaries, or what regulations 

adopted concerning them?—Alfſo, In what parts of the 
' heathen world do there ſeem to be the moſt promiſing 
openings? What information on this head may be obtained 
from any late books of travels, or from chriſtian merchants, 
er from ſuch perſons as would, at leaſt, favour the 2 of 
converting the heathen? 


At this meeting brother Carey u was not preſent, but 
wrote us as follows ;— 


&« I have juſt received a letter from Mr. Thomas, the 
« Bengal miffionary, who informs me that he intended 
« being at Kettering Meeting, but forgot the time when 
« it was to be. He tells me that he is trying to eſtabliſh 
« a fund in London for a miſſion to Bengal; he ardently 
« defires a companion, and enquires about the reſult of our 
« meeting at Kettering, The reaſon for my writing is a 
thought that his fund for Bengal may interfere with our 
« larger plan; and whether it would not be worthy of the 
* ſociety to try to make that and ours unite into one fund 


1 


1 
| 
i 

k 3 
[| 
1 
8 
by 

4 


Wenn golpal 0 the W 
, 0» * indeſtaitely... ES” 


0 Tou, &c. 
Fc w. C.“ 
| After 8 this letter, the committee agreed to make 
enquiry about Mr. Thomas, as to his character, his prin- 
ciples, his abilities, and his ſucceſs amongſt the Hindoos; 
and as the ſecretary was going to London, the enquiries on 


- theſe ſubjeQs were committed to him. 5 


 Agecably: to the laſt hai of the Soul meeting of 
the ſociety at Northampton, the following addreſs was pre- 


| pared, printed, and circulated. 


| , 


2 of the Society 10 their ſellow-chrietian 
at large. 


Tux object of this ſociety is to evangelize the poor, 
dark, jdolatrous heathen, by ſending miſſionaries into diffe- 
rent parts of the world, where the glorious goſpel of 
Chriſt is not at preſent publiſhed, to preach the glad tongs 
of ſalvation by the blood of the HOI - | 


It is a very afeQing fact, that 3 to the loweſt 
computation, there are at this moment above four hundred 
millions of our fellow- men in a ſtate of pagan darkneſs. 


Many of whom (as the inhabitants of New Zealand, and 


ſeveral of the iſlands in the Pacific Ocean) not only live in 
the habits of offering human ſacrifices, but are moſt cer- 
tainly proved to be abſolute cannibals, frequently engaging 
in In bo and feaſting on ny fleſh of their enemies. 


Qua it then be an object unworthy of the moſt ardent 
and perſevering purfuit, to diſſeminate among them the 


6 
9 


Niimane and fa echte ot the christian "religion, in 
atdet to bring theſe" yncivilized barbarians to yield obedi- 
ence to the Prince of egy and to found chriſtian churches 
in 8 ne b now exl exHibit nothing but ſcenes of defolation. 
3 re E 13 | 
Were thele i ignorant Wen but chardagkl inſtructed 
in the doctrines and precepts of chriſtianity, their civiliza- 
tion would naturally follow. And what miſeries would be 
hereby prevented! How great the bleſſings that muſt 
certainly enſue, on their reception. of the glorious goſpel of 
che bleſſed God! 45 Nt 
What pains 100 e does it not deſerve! to attempt 
to reſcue; "at leaſt forte out of ſo Many millions from ruin. 
Was mai formed in he itnage of his God, and is it not deſir - 
able to endeavour to uſe thoſe means which are calculated 
to reſtore that loſt image? Is man the repreſentative of 
Deity to the inferior creation, and ought he to be neglected 
and deſerted,” though in aTuinous' ſtate? Hath not God 
mae of one blood all nations, and ſhall we not reſpect all 
our fellow. creatures as brethren? And if we really con- 
ſider them as ſuch, ſhould not love and compaſſion excite 
us to promote their preſent, and eſpecially their eternal 
welfare? Did the Saviour ſtoop fo low as to viſit our be- 
nighted, wretched, ſinful world, to recover an apoſtate race 
from deſerved ruin? Were the moſt undeſerving and guilty, 
the moſt ſinful and depraved, made the objects of his ſelf. 
moved compaſſion ? Can we give a better evidence of our 
partaking of his grace, than by an earneſt endeavour to 
imitate his example, and to ſubſerve the defign of his com- 
ing into the world, and laying down his precious life ; by 
labouring to promote the ſalvation of the moſt ignorant 
* helpleſs of mankind? | | 


Do we, indeed, believe the goſpel ? Do we receive it 
in reality, not as the word of man, but of God? Do we 
| 4 | | 


. ends 1 


admit inte uf minds che repreſentations aten given of 
the ſtate of man? Have we nub Rp : remedy in, 
any meaſure, and can we be willing chi, remedy for periſh-. 
ing ſouls ſhould remain ſo. very much unknown. to the 
greater part of the world? Or rather, if we have expe- 
rienced its healing influence, ſhall we not be concerned 
that this goſpel, with all its treaſures and e. 
N be winery Wan 8 5 | 
"Ah! if the {at of. A Hottentot,; a \ Hindoa, or a Negro, | 
be like mine; and whe can diſpute it ?—capable of becom- 
ing like God in his moral image—capable of enjoying his 


' favour and loye—capable. of communing with him, glori- 


fying him, and being happy in his ſmiles. for ever; how. 
deſirable i is it to be ANN | to Wy wan Bo: 


* 
N 


Never let us "vie to diſcouragements from, 3 appro- 
henſion that the attempt would be in vain. If we have duly 
conſidered the methods whereby God has already accom- 
pliſhed the deſigns of his grace in. ſome degree, we cannot 
conſiſtently object to the adoption of ſimilar meaſures now. 
The Acts of the Apoſtles (that moſt ancient record of 
chriſtian hiſtory) informs us, that God hath choſen, to, 
propagate his truth among mankind by the efforts of their 
fellow- men, committing the precious treaſure of the goſpel 
into ( earthen-veſlels,” that the excellence of the power 
might the more n appear to be of God, and not 
of man. 


The jeſuits and other popiſh mine hank. Is in mo- 
dern times, taken immenſe pains to propagate their very 
defective and corrupt kind of chriſtianity in divers heathen 
countries. And our proteſtant brethren, belonging to 
other nations, have. laboured with conſiderable ſucceſs. 


11 
Eſpecially the REFEREE FILE Coromandel, 
in the Eaſt Indies; has, ſince the year 1906, brought above 
18;000 Gentoos to the profeffion” of chriſtianity, The 
Dutch, in the ifland of Ceylon; and other of the A 
ſettlements, have had ſtill more extenſive fucceſs. In 
North America, the poſtolic Elliot, in the laſt — 
was the chief intime of the evident and thordough con- 
verſion of many of the native Indians, and by his labouts, 
and that of other excellent Pedobaptiſt miniſters, ſeveral 
churches were raiſed from among thoſe poor ſavages, ſome 
of which were ſupplied with miniſters of their own race, 
and others with Anglo-Ameticans. Nor were the Baptiſts 
without a hand in that bleſſed work. In the prefent cen- 
tury, the  Prevbyrerian Society in Scotland" fur propagutiug 
chriſtian tnowledge, has lent its fupport to ſeveral uſeful 
miffionaries/among the American Indians. The excellent 
David Brainerd, an account of whoſe life and ſingular ſuc- 
ceſs among the Indians was publiſhed by Preſident Ed- 
wards" and after him his brother John Brainerd, were 
fupported by this ſociety. They Ri afford their aſſiſtaet 
to My. Kirkland, from whom very yleafmg accounts have 
been lately received; and there is alſo 4 Mr. Sergeant, 
who is ſucceſsfully employed among the Indians at this 
time. The Moravian Brethren have, within theſe ſixty 
years paſt; ſent miſſionaries to various heathen nations, 
and have diſcovered a zeal for the propagation of the goſ- 
pel, which ought to provoke in all other denominations of 
chtiſtians' a godly emulation. Their succeſs has been re- 
markable among the Greenlanders, and in the Daniſh Weſt 
India lelands. They have alſo ſent miſſionaries among 
the American Indians, and the Eſquimaux on the coaſt of 
me ps who have been N rr e tos the pon \ 


* See Dr. Cotton Mather Magnalia Chiti Americana, rr vii. 
b. | 


— 42 
2 — — 


12 


ſion of ſouls ; and have attempted to preach aha. goſpel to 
the Tartars, and to the Hottentots, to which: laſt; people 
they are about to rengw, their, miſſion again., We are in. 
formed, that in the year 1788, they bad in; their, ſocieties | 


nearly 15, ooo converted heathen. The Weſleyan, Methods 


iſts have, within theſe few years, attempted a miſſion to 
the Carribbs, who are natives of the Weſt India iſlands, 
and have laboured with ſucceſs among the Negro: ſlaves in 
thoſe iſlands. The labours of brother George. Liele, the 
Baptiſt Negro i in Jamaica, have been greatly bleſſed. among, 
his fellow Africans, both bond and free. IT he ſucceſs, of 
our worthy brethren who. have thus hazarded. their. lives 
for the ſake of the Lord Jeſus, may ſerve at once as a re- 
proof to our indolence, and as a ſpur to our activity. Who 
that realizes the value of one immortal ſoul, but muſt be 
ſtimulated by theſe brilliant ſucceſſes to aſſiſt in Saeed 
the SIS of God? 5 58 £24 4A ip 
21 * 36 (93:38 
10 ſuch an * * * of the hn Wel na- 
ture muſt impel every believer in divine revelation and 
well-wiſher to mankind ; for, various as the different opi- 
nions of chriſtians may be with reſpect to particular parts 
of the goſpel ſcheme, all will agree in this, That the fa» 
cred ſcriptures-afſure.us of the univerſal conqueſts of the 
Redeemer, that “his dominion ſhall extend from ſea to 
ſea, even to the ends of the earth: that © the kingdoms 
of this world ſhall become the Kingdoms of our Lord and 
of his Obeiſt; and that “ the iſles hath un for his: law.“ 


Will not God, a eech the hagets Nw W „ 0 * 
every ſincere and earneſt effort to promote his bleſſed cauſe? 
Without the divine blefling, we readily believe nothing to 
purpoſe can be effected. But is this an excuſe for inactivity 
and floth? Are we not encouraged by innumerable pro- 
miſes and prophecies of the divine word; and by an evident 


vleſing e of our brethren and nagar | 
ſors ?, Let then every chriſtian. who loves the goſpel, and 
to whom. the ſouls of men are dear, come forward in this 
| noble cauſe. If God hath given us of this world's goods, 
to what more valuable purpoſe can we apply a portion of 
our ſubſtance, than in endeavouring to ſend to our poor bre: 
thren the bread of life, of which they Rand in ſuch periſbiog 
need? Let every one that is free-hearted offer unto the 
Lord. For the ſilver and gold, as well as our ſouls which 
he bought with his blood, are not our own, but his. And 
whether we can or cannot thus honour him with our ſubs 
ſtance, let us attend the generous donations of thoſe that 
are able to contribute to the ſupport of his cauſe with our 
moſt fervent prayers. Many chriſtian ſocieties have, for 
ſome years back, united in extraordinary prayer for the en- 
largement of the Redeemer's, kingdom : and may not this 
be conſidered as a certain harbinger of ſucceſs? Let us 
perſiſt, and we ſhall prevail. Pray ye for the peace 
increaſe of the church, they ſhall proſper that love her. Ve 
that mention the name of the Lord, keep not ſilence your- 
ſelves, nor let him, reſt in ſilence, umil he eftabliſh, and, 
until he render J e 2 praiſe in the earth. 


501 


, «. ? 
A 4413 17 53 i 2 21 L mn ; z 4 . ww © : 
—— e e e f 
* Tx 43 3 


Brother Adee, having been Fear" to give a 
Narrative of himself and his labours in India, 


| he wrote the followihs, which MPI in Rip- 
Pons Baptist Register, No. 5. 


My father is deacon of a Baptiſt leg at Fairford, in 
Glouceſterſhire. He trained me up in the nurture and ad- 
monition of the Lord; but I proved for a long time a 
hopeleſs child. Very ſharp convidtions were often felt, 
and repeatedly ſtifled, till it pleaſed God to make my fins 
2 heavy burden to me, in the year 1781, I had lately mar- 


14 
—— nights and days word dredifal both'ts aivind 


| my: wiſe; but in the month of Auguſt that year, attending 


on the Rev. Dr. $——;, who preached from John v. 2, 


| Labour nor for the meat- which perifieth; but for thut "meat 


which enduruth! tu everlaſting life, which the Son of Man h 
give unto you; I heard with new ears; the diſcourſe ſeemed 
all for me, and afforded me ſome reſt till the following 


week, when, meditating on the ſeriptures I had heard, and 


on the goſpel by Matthew, I beheld a new object in a ne- 
light, even Chriſt crucified, which has been followed I truſt 
with kn hen 15 teh Ben 1 IE Snaps 1 f > __ 


| MN . Watts, 


6 


fe e's Nen in thine embrace, NS Drown 
And no where else but there.” 


x diu to think how unworthily T have carried it ever * 
to this day; but upon the whole I truſt that God is m 
portion and my happineſs. At the time mentioned, YA 


| ſettled in Great Newport-ftreet; in the practice of 35 


and midwifery : but finding the world more ready to receive 
eredit than give it, I was obliged to ſell all, and wait in 
lodgings till an offer was mide me of going to ſea : and in 
the year 1783, I failed in capacity of ſurgeon of the Ox- 
ford Indiaman to Bengal. On my arrival at Calcutta, I 
ſought for religious people, but found none. At laſt, how 
was I rejoiced to hear that a very religious man was com- 
mg to dine with me, at a houſe. in Calcutta ; A man, who 
would not omit his cloſet hours, of a morning or evening, 
at ſea or on land, for all the world. T concealed my impa- 
tience as well as I could till the joyful moment came: and 
4 moment it was; for I ſoon heard him take the Lord's 
name in vain, and it was like a cold dagger, with which, [ 
teceived repeated (tabs in the courle of half an hour's con- 
verſation : and he was ready to kick me when J ſpoke of 
ſome things am monly believed. by other Werde, con- 


10 


cerning our Lord Jeſus Chriſt; and with fury put an end 
2 our converſation, by ſaying, I was a mad enthuſtſt to 


ſuppoſe that Jeſus Chriſt had any ching to go. in the creation 
of the world, who was born only {eventeen hundred years, 
ago. When I returned, be went home in the ſame ſhip, 
and 1 found bim a ſtrict obſerver, of devotional hours, but; 
an enemy to all religion, and horribly. alk Main and, in- 
ANY in bis, life an converſation, Miet ien Sets 36” 


After this 1 advertifed for a chriltian; "and that Fran. | 
not be miſunderſtood, 1 ſhall ſubjoin a copy of the 2 
tiſement from the India Gazette of November 1.4 1 
which now lies before me, and the anſwers I received, giv- 


ing only the ſignature of one of Hm” inſtead of the name 
at length. | 


« 4 P {3 * 3 


ni TI wenn . 


veefirbivs SOCIETY. | | 


1 * 
4 18 * 
0820 


A PLAN is now forming for the more effeQually ſpread- 
ing the knowledge of Jeſus Chriſt, and his glorious golpel, 
in and about Bengal: any ſerious perſons, of any denomi- 
nation, rich or poor, high or low, Its would heartily. ap- 
prove of, join in, or gladly forward 22 an undertaking, 
are hereby invited to give a ſmall teſtimony of their ingli- 
nation, that they may enjoy the ſatisfaRtion of forming a 
communion the moſt uſeful, the moſt comfortable, and the 
moſt exalted in the world. Direct for A. B. C. to be left 
with the Editor. 8 


The two following eee were received the next ys 


40 A. B. C. will open a ſubſcription for NR ON 
of the New Teſtament into the Perſian and Mooriſh lan- 
guages, (under the direction of proper perſons) he will 
meet with every affiftance he can deſire, and 4 a competent 
naler of ſubſcribers to defray _ are 


of ſucceſs. 


bn 115.249 71 + Ain - ANOTHER. 21s]. bag * BY #1195 
e The Rev. Mr. — having read the advertiſement of 


A. B. C. in this day's paper, takes the earlieſt opportunity 


of expreſfing his ſatisfaction of à propoſal” for the more 


affectually propagating, and making known the truth of 


me chriſtian religion, in this country of ſuperſtition, ido- 


atty, and irreligion; and for ſetting forth the excellence 


of that holy inſtitution; fo replete with the means of ren- 
dering mankind happy, both here and hereafter ; moſt cor- 
dillly offers his ſervices for promoting and encouragin 

fo laudable an undertaking, and will think himſelf happy 
if he ban be at all inſtruniental in bringing it to any degree 


4 


: 5 ' p Fey — 13 
29 21 11981 f : | ö f 
— 1K 1 1 31 1 4 +. - 


c Mr. —, from the above reaſons, therefore wiſhes 
an opportunity of. conferring with the advertiſer on the 
on,” + ALS 


\ 


1 have never yet found out who was the author of the 

anonymous note; and as to Mr. —, he was chaplain 
to the Preſidency, and I was afraid to anſwer him leſt I 
ſhould be ſcouted; for I had heard him preach, and the 
ſermon as well as the text was, The unknown Cad. This 
well-worded note of his was intended, I ſuppoſe, merely to 
find me out; and I have certain reaſons to believe that the 
advertiſement gave him offence. The following year, being 
at a houſe in London where the Rev. Mr. N—— had 
Juſt called, I heard that a goſpel miniſter was going out to 
Bengal, and that Mr. N had reaſon to think there 
were religious ſtirrings in that country, as he had read a 
certain advertiſement in a newſpaper of ſuch an import; 
which advertiſement was, indeed, the ſame which I have 
copied above. | mM 5 


| Juſt as I was returning the firſt time, I found out Mr. 
, who kept an European ſhop in Calcutta, and 


17 


appeared to be a truly pious man. 1 learned by him there 
was a Mr. G, and a Mr. C—— up the country,“ 

and one or two more, who were religious people. Mr. 
W returned to England with a conſiderable. fortune, 
I came back alſo, and was baptiſed in London, in 1785, and 
began, to exhort in private ſocieties, and to preach in dif- 

ferent places in town and country. On conſulting the Rev, 
Mr. ,—, he adviſed me to go another voyage, which I 
accordingly did ; and failed the ſecond time to Bengal, in 
1786, with the ſame captain and officers, and in the ſame 
| ſhip as before. That very ſeaſon, the Rev. Mr. Brown, 
who now preaches i in Calcutta, went over and took charge 
of the Orphan School, where all the illegitimate children of 
Europeans, by the native women, are educated and pro- 
vided for. On my arrival there, I found a Mr, U=—, 
and a Mr. C, and two or three more, who. were con- 
nected with Mr. G“ family, all ſerious people, and 
we uſed: to go together to hear Mr. Brown, on the Lord's 
day, who preached to the children under his charge: and 
after a little while we had a prayer-meeting, and ſometimes 
a word of exhortation was given. Mr. G removed 
from Malda to Calcutta: on his coming to. us, we were 
increaſed | and ftrengthened, and I preached at his houſe 
every Lord's-day evening. One day, as Mr. W— and 
I were walking out, he gave me to underſtand that Mr. 
G.—— wiſhed me to. ſtay in the country, learn the lan- 
guage, and preach the goſpel to the Hindoos: but I was 
averſe to the climate, dreaded a longer ſeparation from my 
family, and had no particular bent of mind to the work : 

having alſo the charge of a ſhip's company as their ſurgeon, 
without any probability of the captain's giving me leave to 
ſtay, or of another ſurgeon being found to ſupply my place, 
I could not accede to the propoſal; yet it would often re- 


At Malda, about 250 miles from Calcutta, 


D 


\ 18 


turn to my mind, and after a few weeks I became greatly 
concerned at heart for the condition of theſe periſhing 
multitudes of Pagans, in utter darkneſs ; and was inflamed 


with fervent deſires to go and declare the glory of Chriſt 
among them. Waters enough have riſen ſince to damp, 


but will never utterly extinguiſh what was lighted up at 


that time. After much prayer and many tears, | gave my- 
ſelf up to this work, and the Lord removed difficulties out 


of the way, confirming the miſſion, and comforting me by 
adding two ſeals (both Europeans) to my firſt labours, who 
continue my-hepe and joy, and I truſt will be my crown at 
the day of Chriſt's appearing. I muſt here paſs over many 


griefs and ſorrows, offences and miſtakes, and proceed to 


give you ſome information concerning the Hindoos, their 
behaviour, and their country, with any other intereſting 
42 ge that N occur while 1 write. 


There are Cour Shafters, or laws, among the Hindoos, 
which they call the Vedas ; theſe they hold in the higheſt 
eſteem, and ſay it is unlawful for any man to read, or hear 
them read, except he be a brahman. The Vedas are ſaid 


to have been written many millions of years ago, which, 


however, is eaſily diſproved by other books and writings 


in uſe among themſelves. Theſe Vedas are written in 


Shanſcrit, which may be called the latin of the eaſt, and 


they are the fountain of all their books of theology, as the 


Koran among the Moors, and the Bible among us. There 
are eighteen ſacred books, called Poorans, which are all 


commentaries on the Vedas: and it is the cuſtom of all 


the brahmans to learn a great part of theſe by heart, and 
they are very apt and clever in quoting portions of them 


in converſation : this they find the more eaſy to them, as 
all their books are written in verſe. I think it is impoſſible 
to convey to any perſon who never was in that country, 


an adequate idea of that protound reverence in which they 


19 


hald their ſacred books. But PD is wonderful, they hear 
the divine authority of theſe books queſtioned with pati- 
ence and moderation, at all times, and in all places. Some - 
of theſe books hold up for their veneration characters which 
are very profligate, and contain dreadful doctrines, evidently 
of an infernal origin, which have a ſtrange effect on their 
minds and manners. They abound, moreover, with ſuch 
contradictions, (though on the other hand with very good 
moral precepts) that I am ſure it is no difficult thing to 
convince the more intelligent perſons among them, that 
they are not of divine authority: and I am perſuaded there 
are ſome to be found among them, who think there is no 
revelation from God yet, becauſe they ſee in all theſe books 
ſome things incompatible with their notion of God. That 
there is one great God, omnipotent, omnipreſent, and 
omniſcient; that he is to be worſhipped and ſerved; that 
the ſoul is immortal; that we all have ſinned ; and that 
ſome atonement is neceſlary, are truths commonly believ- 
ed among them all: and add to theſe things, the divine 
predictions we have of the latter day, with the encourage- 
ments of Jehoyah to declare his glory among the heathen z 
and I think, without any thing more, one might find rea- 
ſon enough to go and preach to them. But I can truly ſay, 
wherever J have been preaching or converſing among them, 
I have invariably found them willing to hear, and that they 
always behave with great decency and reſpect, I truſt alſo 
that the door of faith is opened to the Hindoos by the con- 
verſion of two or more of the natives, and by many other 
ſtriking effects, which, though ſhort of real converſion, 
may, in the Lord's own time, prove a great bleſſing to 
many. Some little account of Baſboo, the Moonſhi, one of 
theſe converts, in a letter from him and a brahman, will 
accompany theſe papers. He is about thirty-five years of 
age, and a perſon of more than ordinary capacity, and has 
been well educated in the Perſian language; he was recom- 


3 20 


dente to me by Mr. W. C, who is a great Parka 


ſcholar; and I have employed him in the office of my 


| Moonſhi, or teacher, all the time I have been in Bengal. 


It was he that compoſed the Bengalee hymn which I an- 


| nex,* and many other ſonnets of his own accord, without 


any affiftance from me or any other ; ; and it was he who 
chiefly laboured with me in the tranſlation of Matthew, 
Mark, James, &c., and he often diſputes with and confounds 
the bratimans, both learned and unlearned, though he is 
not a brahman himſelf, but of the writer caſt ; 4 and this is 
not in a ſmall degree extraordinary, for the brabilifiris think 
it a very great condeſcenſion to hold an argument with any 
perſon whoſe caſt is inferior to that of a brahmin. This 
man has a conſiderable degree of knowledge and gifts, and 

hope they will one day ſhine forth co the good of many. 
I ſhould have baptiſed him, but his relations refuſed to give 
him his wife and children. He will accompliſh his wiſhes 
J hope before I 1 return, and then his family will be num- 
bered with the ſtated heaters, and he himſelf be baptiſed 


with the brabman Parbotee , of whom I ſhall give you a 


ſhort account preſently. The greateſt difficulty in ſpread- 
ing the goſpel! in Bengal, ariſes from the caſt ; for all who 
ire baptiſed, and partake of bread and wine with us, 2010, 
boſe caſt; and when a man has loſt caſt, his moſt intimate 
friends and neareſt relations will forſake him for ever. 
He cannot poſſibly be reſtored again by any means; and the 
meaneſt Hindoo, from that time, refuſes to eat, drink, or 
converſe with him; he becomes an outcaſt and a vagabond 
in their eyes, in the moſt ſtrict ſenſe, But when the way 
is once opened, the difficulty will gradually diminiſh, and, 
if they walk as becometh the goſpel, they will become a 
caſt of themſelves, and that an honourable one too. 


® This r with a metrical verſion, will be found at the end of this 


number. \ 
1 Order or tribe. 


21 


1 might here give you an entertaining account bf mary 

ho have left off their idolatty, flower-offerinigs, and vum 
ſuperſtitions, and are in the Habit of reading the Bible, us 
the word of God, and the only book that diſcovers to their 
ſatisfaction the way of ſalvation: but I am already ſpin- 
ning out my paper to a greter length than I intended, and 
what I have to fay of Parbotee will take up a confiderable 
portion of your time. I will, by the bye, juſt mention & fer 
things of Mobun Chund, another bratman, of whom I once 
hoped well, whoſe heart failed him at laſt: but I cannot ſay, 
even now, that I have given up all hopes of him; far from 
it. This man is a brahmin of ſome repute, and has a vaſt 
number of diſciples, who ptoſtrate themſelves at his feet 
wherever they meet him. He lives at Boolahant, about fix 
miles froti Malda. He came to hear me in the crowd, 
and was eaſily to be diſtinguiſtied from the reſt by his fixed 
attention and regular attendance, One day, after 1 had been 
diſcourſing about prayer, he very gravely aſked me, ““ Sir, 
when a man prays to God, how many days is it before he 
gets an anſwer.” I then repeated the account of the wo- 
man of Canaan, and other different caſes. He continued 
to attend, converſe, and write, on the things of the goſpel, 
and ſeemed at length convinced that he was a great ſinner 
before God; that there was no refuge for him among all 
their ſhaſters ; and that the goſpel alone was of God, diſeo- 
vering the way of ſalvation. This man continually came 
to ſee me, and was teckoned by his people a convert to 
chriſtianity, for he diſuſed the worſhip and ceremony of the 
Hindoos, to his own temporal loſs; and forbad that homage 
which had long been ſuperſtitivuſly paid him from the peo- 
ple. He often talked publicly with great petſuaſian, to 


They have Matthew, Mark, James, ſome part of Gehtfis, and the 
Pſalms, with different parts of the prophecies, in Bengalee manuſcript : three 


or four of them have all the above, and ſdme only a ſingle part, which they 
lend to one another and copy. | 


22 
other brahmins, in favour. of the bible. On the 28th of 
June, 1790, he had been to pay me a viſit, and returning to 


his own home, he found there erer, a brabman, who 
| ha to ſee him. 


— FUE was a man of title, and of a more high and ho- 
nourable rank than this man. He was alſo a very ſtrict ob- 
ſerver of the Hindoo laws and cuſtoms, daily rifing early in 
the morning, and repairing to the diſtant jungles“ to gather 
curious flowers, ſuperſtitiouſly valued amongſt them ; and 
theſe he offered with abundant forms in the river Maha- 
nuddee, which was near ; and repaired at particular ſeaſons 
to their more ſacred river the Ganges, which they fay 
cleanſes from ſin. There was not his equal in all the neigh- 
bourhood for zeal and accuracy ; a thorough devotee, This 
man, having heard of our new ſhaſter, the Bible, was not 
a little diſpleaſed: and when he underſtood that the other 
brahmin who came in, had been to ſee me, he required of 
him to go and waſh his clothes, for he muſt be defiled, and 
would defile, for he had been in the company of an Engliſh- 
man : and it is the common cuſtom of all religious orders 
among them, to go out of the company of an Engliſhman 
or Mahomedan, into the river, and immerſe their bodies 
with their clothes on. I have often obſeryed the brahmans 
and pundits + do ſo, after holding any converſation with 
me. To induce this man to go and waſh his clothes, Par- 
botee urged that I was of the MHaleeich, viz. unclean, if not 
filthy. He replied that filthy men did filthy deeds ; whereas 
he could never ſay fo of this Engliſhman: and he would 
not go and waſh his clothes. The other continued to in- 
fiſt upon it, and finding his injunction was not honoured, 
he proceeded to doa thing which will appear trivial to Jeu, 
but is a very formidable action among them. 5 


Woods. t td doctors. 


8 1 

It is the cuſtom of the country to ſmoke very much; and 
their tobacco is made up into a paſte, with ſpices, &c. ; this 
paſte they place on one ſide of a copper plate, and coals of + 
fire on the other fide; the tobacco being lighted, they then 
put it on the upper extremity of a tube, and the lower ex- 
tremity runs down into a ſhell, or other veſſel, containing 
cold water, and ſometimes roſe water, which is very com- 
mon there. The ſmoke is agreeably drawn through the 
cooling water by means of another flexible tube, which is 
the pipe, and is generally about twelve feet long. Now, 
when brahmans, or others of equal caſt, meet together, it 
is a conſtant mark of friendſhip and good underſtanding, 
for the man of the houſe to offer this hookah to his viſitor, 
and it is paſſed on from one to the other. But when the 
brahman in queſtion gave the hookah to Parbotee, he emptied 
the water out of it: this is the action that will appear little 
to you, but which is a kind of formal diſgrace among them, 
and proves a forerunner to that which is worſe than death, 
viz. loſing caſt. Such a proceeding before witneſſes, could 
not eſcape particular notice, nor fail of drawing the atten- 
tion of many to the great diſhonour of Mohun Chund : fo 
he left the company, and went and poured out his com- 
plaint to God in prayer. The day was far gone, he re- 
turned no more to his company, but retired with his family 
to reſt. About two in the morning, he was called up by 
Parbotee, with vehement cries; and on opening the door, 
found him in great agitation, and, to his. inexpreſſible ſur- 
priſe, Parbotee deſired to hear the goſpel, and that the 
brahman Chund would go and pray for him: he replied as 
well as he could, and took him to the houſe of Boſhoo, the 
Moonſhi, where they ſpent their time till day-light, in 
reading, praying, and ſinging. But matters were not yet 
explained: they obſerved he did not go to his uſual cere- 
monies, but returned to Moonſhi's houſe in great trouble of 
mind about noon, making his former requeſts; and, on their 


24 " : 


repeated gnquiry, he related to them à very remarkable 
dream, in which I have no doubt at all but he received di- 


vine admonition and inſtruction. The effects of it were 

viſihle on his body and mind for ſeyeral days. I found it 
very difficult. to adminiſter any conſolation to him, and was 
| ae the ene mi a be ſoon fatal ; - DH he conti- 


COST TW EE ACE ok ELLE AE” 


God, and Jeſus Chriſt the only Saviour. When I Ik 
Bengal, he had continued. j walk in an orderly, becoming 
manner, and gave me and others great ſatisfaction. I can- 

not paſs by one remark in my diary; though it is rather 
— I ſhall here give you a copy of it yerbatim. You 
muſt know, we# were all on the river, going a journey of 
230 miles; and we had a_prayer-meeting- on ſetting out, 
Mobun Chund, and Ram Bgſhoo, the Moonſhi, having 
2. their interceſſions, 1 called upon Parbotee, whom J 

never before heard; and though the Moonſhi's prayer 
was more judicious and orderly, yet that of Parbotee, both 
in manner and matter, was at that time — wort 
and awful to my ſpirit. 


Extr aa of my diary « of Aug. 19. 1790. — 


50 Endeavour to recollect a little of Parbotee's unequalled 
prayer. 


* 
9 


Erbe! in Parbatet's Prqyer. 


« J pedecmed the rights of the Ganges; I called this 
ﬆ gd -I worſhipped wood and ſtone ; I called this good— 
% I heard the ſhaſters of men, that are all falſe and vain; * 
I called this good—Lord, I am a moſt wretched creature 

ct to this day: I know nothing—nothing. I have ſpent all 
*< my days in wickedneſs, and have not obtained the leaft 


* Moonſhi, n Mohun Chund, and myſelf, 


25 


« knowledge bf 0d. O put far from nenden things ! 
O make them depatt fat from me. I have hearkthed 
“e now to thy word. I will Hear them nombre wil) not 
« the least regard the idols of wood and ſtone any more 
“e Vanity—lies. Lord, I will hear no more at all' theſe ſhaſ- 
ce ters of the Hindoos ; they are all falſe and vain. Wretch- 
«ed ſinner! Save me! O fave—fave—fave me. Give 
© give O give=give, O Lord! Give me to know 
4e Hell! what Heaven]! what? —Withoüt the blood of 
« Chriſt T ſhall never be ſaved. Without the flesh of Chriſt 
, ſhall never live. Lord, what is the meaning of this? 
« T know not what it is how can 1 get the blood of 
6e Chriſt O teach me, I will do any thing thou ſayeſt 
« Caſt ! What? Home! what? Friends! what ?—Life ! 
« what What! is any thing ? All is nothing but theæ. 

«.T want no money; F want nothing but thee! O what a 
<« wretched ſinner am 11 O tell me thy way! O tell me 
*« by Moonſhi; tell me by the Sahaib. f? We are going to 
“Calcutta Many, many wicked e ig 0 17876 
« us all while we OY —_— m1; - 

1 f N Df enn een 


«(7 


« 0 that 1 had but love! Fo ther Kiba (wy faith — 
O that I had forgiveneſs . O that I had but thoſe things 
« which thy people have. Like them—O give me like 
e them, like them, O. Lord, how many evil things are in 
my mind every day! I am a wicked blaſphemous wretch! 
] have ſhame in me Wicked ſhame before the people, 


\ . . ? 
k F F * 


He had heard read erg vi. 53. 


4 Rats. perhaps, to ſome. cruel changes that they followed the 


goſpel for money : but the truth is, ghey made no gain by it 0 - rauer 
rl they ſuffered os. 


t Salah 4 j . e. Sir. He meant Mr. ET, 


5 


: 26 | 
. and wicked fear of men ;—Far, O far away from me, 
t put far away my ſins, Forgive me; and teach me what 


« I ſhall do. I will do any thing. O that I did but know 
«© what to do. O give—give—give—Lord, what 1085 


We... what can I dat”. 


c 3 Th burſt TO a flood of tears, with now * then 
© ſuch fervent. cries, as I never before heard: he continued 
in prayer about half an hour, I read and explained the 
5 faithful promiſes of God to ſupply the poor and needy, 


Landl to ſatisfy the thirſty ſgul with living waters; ſpoke 


Sof the mind, and the inner man, delighting in God mani- 
c feſted in the fleſh, and crucified for fin ; that this was 
« eating the fleſh, and drinking the blood of: Chrift. After 
© concluding, he returned to his boat, and, as the Moonſhi 
* tells me, wept there over his own ſinfulneſs a long time.” 


Thus far my, r. 


.- Conſidering that this took ade almoſt two months after 
ts dream, and obſerving the deep concern of mind which 


is but imperfectly expreſſed in this written account; you 


will agree with me that it is a very extraordinary affair; 
and the loſs and ſhame among men with which it has been 


ever ſince followed, put it beyond all doubt with me, that 


it has pleaſed God to awaken this man. He continues a 
living witneſs to thouſands, of the vanity of paganiſm, 
and the reality of the chriſtian religion. The brahmans and 
relations of theſe people who find their ' intereſts ſhaken, 


have raiſed reports, ſtirred up enemies, and brought accuſa- 


tions againſt them, evidently falſe; but they behave on theſe 
trying occaſions like men; like chriſtians, who have thei 
truſt and hope in God; and they are to be baptiſed on 0 


return to that country, and ſo Joſe caft for ever, in which 
many will join them, and fo become at leaſt ſtated hearers of 


the goſpel. A man of Parbotee's high authority among them 


being on our ſide, if he could only ſay he thought that the 
bible might be true, and of divine authority, would be a very 
great blefling to any miſſionary whoſe heart ſhould be ſtirs 
red up to go and preach to them. Bur I bleſs God, and re- 
fle& on it with great comfort, that there are thouſands of 
Hindoos, brabmans, and others, who are ready to own as 
much, and more than this; and if theſe were dead, I ſhould 
go over to them with all joy andconfidence of hope, aſſur- 
edly gathering from theſe tokens and many others, that the 
Lord hath called me to preach unto them the unſearchable 
riches of Chrift : and I hope and pray, he will yet enable 
and call others more fit for, and worthy of, this delightful 
work than myſelf, There are ſeveral brahmans who have 
the book of Matthew in their hands, who read it in their 
families and among their friends, whom I have never ſeen; 
and there are ſeveral with whom I have converſed, that 
have read the ſcriptures to ſome good effect, though not 
really converted to Chriſt, Theſe would all rejoice to ſee 
more witneſles of the truth as it is in Jeſus among them, 
The two converts I have mentioned to you, expreſſed a 
deſire of ſending a meſſage to the Rev. Mr. ——, with 
whom they knew I correſponded ; to this I replied, they 
had better write it down; they did ſo, and I have tranſlated 


it, and a copy of their letter * will ſee at 'the cloſe of 
theſe papers.* 


In addition to what may be gathered from the above, of 
their religion and manners, I ſhall mention a few things 
which ſhew that the neceſſity of ſome atonement for ſin, is 
one of their prevailing ideas. I believe that human ſacri- 
| fices are very rare, if not entirely unknown among them: 
although about four years ſince there was an account of one 
in the India papers; but there are doubts of the authority 
from whence it came. Sacrifices are made, however, of 


See page 32. 


— 
— * @ — — — . 
— — — — — » 
— 4 — 2 * 
— — — 2 — - _ = ">: 4” 
3 = — NE IS — 8 ad — 
5 SN 2 — 2 — e = +, — I — 
2 — — 22 yok — — 2 MET en ne A 
— — - 
ba 


TO 
ve” 


_— 
_— - 

— — 
— 


-y - - — a - a ny — 
- * — * — « — Akio. . — 5 . — n 2 — — — — — Ws 2 8 * 
” - 26... CE. a — — 1 _—_— y p ra . —— — Boy ano rat LO Re es A 
4 — jo - - * = — = E —— * oe — — 22 my — _ 0 — cone * 1 
1 2 — * 7 7 CAS... . 1 > ogy : 122 o4 ww b- 4 EN = * — 2 * 2 — — — — — . 
% 2 we - 3 « — L "Mr —— — — — 1 — . — — he us — : — — * ; 
— *% bs — — \ — — 4 —— — o —— — Yo ns — — 2 — — — by - cn — —— my 
— — — —_—— gm 6 _ — 7 ER * — — — — — — — 8 — — ou * — Ate - —— 2 — — "= 
* __ \ —— 83 bo . — Hang — - _ SEATS _ 7 emen ern 
— ww Ya —_ eb] ug — — n=. — " « — et — — 5 A — wa — a * . 
25 3 - — - — 
* 
* — 
* * 


— _ 9 


* 
— 22 
— — 3 = 
: . 4 
—— , 
a, 


| 28 
buffaloes, kids, and lambs, which are publicly to be ſeen at 
their ſtated ſeaſons. They have alſo a cuſtom of uſing ſeve- 
ral voluntary tortures, which every perſon who has reſided 
in the country for a year or two, muſt be more qr leſs ac- 


Auainted with. I ſhall deſcribe two or three of them * 


{' Firſt; That of fwinging. The perſon who makes this 
atonement, has two iron fleſb-hooks paſſed through the inte- 
guments on cach ſide of the back-bone; and, being ſuſ- 
pended by ropes attached to theſe hooks, he is drawn up 
above 40 feet in the air, and there twirled round for a 
conliderable time; all NS bears without any expreſ- 
ſion of pain or impatience. Whatever he throws down of 
fruit, or the like, is caught up with great avidity, and 
counted ſacred. Sometimes the ſkin has given way, and 
the perſon has been daſhed to pieces: ſo now, in all that 1 
have ſeen, cloth has been paſſed round the middle, for the 
hooks to hold by with the ſkin. The ceremony may be 
ſeen in almoſt. every town once a year, | 
Another torture is after this manner: the man paſſes 
threads through each of his ſides in fix places; and the threads 
being thirty yards long, and fixed at each end, he dances 
backward and forward as in a rope walk. 


A third is running a ſpit four feet long all through the. 
tongue, and drawing it backwards and forwards. Beſides 


which, I might mention fitting in one poſition for years, ex- 
poſed to fires in hot weather, and cold dews in cold wea- 


ther. Many. other things of a like nature are common 
among them, 


_ I ſhall conclude with an inſtance J have heard from ſome 
of our religious brethren at Calcutta, Mr. Swartz, or one 
of the Malabarian miſſionaries, related it to them. 


29 

| * 
A certain man on the Malabar coaſt, had enquired” of 
various devotees and priefts, how he might make atone- 
ment for his ſin; and at laſt he was directed to drive iron 
ſpikes, ſufficiently blunted, through his ſandals, and on 
| theſe ſpikes he was to place his naked feet, and walk (if L 
miſtake not) 250 coſs, that is about 480 miles. If, through 
loſs of blood, or weakneſs of body, he was obliged to halt, 
he might wait for healing and ſtrength. He undertook the 
journey, and while he halted under a large ſhady tree where 
the goſpel was ſometimes preached, one of the miſſionaries 
came, and. preached in his hearing from. theſe words, The 
blood of Feſus Chrift cleanſeth from all ſin. While he was 
preaching, the man roſe up, threw off his torturing ſan- 
dals, and cried out aloud, © This is what I want!” and. he 


became a living witneſs that the blood of Jeſus Chriſt does 
cleanſe from all fin indeed. 


It may appear a very formidable undertaking to go and 
preach among theſe poor deſtitute periſhing ſouls. Perhaps 
the heat of the climate, and the barbarous manners of hea- 
thens in general, may operate in part as a diſcouragement 
to ſome, who would other wiſe cordially engage in this ſer- 
vice; but where God makes willing, obſtacles will compa- 
ratively diſappear. One part of the year the weather is cold 
enough: at night we can bear two or three blankets, and 
ſhould be unable to ſleep for cold without them. In the 
day we uſe warm clothes and fires, eſpecially in the upper 
parts of Bengal, which lies in latitude 262 N, The 
country abounds with proviſions at a cheap rate; ſo that 
thouſands of the natives maintain themſelves and families, 


pay rent and cuſtoms, out of an income not exceeding 10s, 
ſterling per month. 


30 


Near Malda, at which place I reſided, the prices of pro- 
viſions in common were as follow z but at W wy 


are much dearer. . tif 
| s. d. þ 4, 4. 
30 Fowls. - 2 6 A Sheep - 2 6 
— % 6] · ůit e 
A Hog 2 6 A Lamb - 0 8 
A Deer — =- 2 6 | 


Pine apples, mangoes, plantains, limes, melons, peaches, 
vegetables, and kfh, very plentiful and cheap; and other 
things in proportion. But if a European muſt have a great 
houſe, a palanquin, a number of ſervants, and eat and drink 
the unwholeſome food brought from Europe; as hains, 
tongues, claret, porter, &c., Bengal may prove both an 
expenſive and unhealthy place to him; otherwiſe the coun- 
try may be enjoyed, and ſeveral ſervants kept at a ſmall ex- 
pence. Some ſervants are neceſſary there which would be 
quite ſuperfluous here; ſuch as a perſon to carry a chatta, 
or kind of umbrella; a cook, a waſherman, and perhaps 
more: the moſt expenſive of theſe is the cook, and his whole 
Wages will amount to no more than 15s, per month at far- 
theft, and he finds himſelf. Houſe-rent is the moſt expen- 
ſive article; for the law ful intereſt of money in that coun- 
try is 12 per cent, and the company allows 8. But for my 
part, I have lived in a boat for fix months together, as com- 
fortably as any prince in Europe; and for 16 or 18s. a miſ- 
ſionary may build an excellent houſe, with mud walls and 
ftraw covering. 1 have done this alſo, and lived more com- 
fortably than I do now in England: ſo that the difficulties 
attending a goſpel miſſion are not inſuperable; if they ap- 
pear ſo, it is only at a diſtance; and ſhould they be ever ſo 
great, in a ſervice of this kind, we expect — God to 
do valiantly. 


| 81 
As to the learning of the language, it is a work attended 


with difficulties: but when the whole time is devoted to it, 


three or four months will bring a man through the greateſt 
of them; and he will begin to converſe with the natives, 
with great amuſement and pleaſure to himſelf, and profit to 
them. And as to the barbarity of theſe people, it is not 
with them as it is with other pagans of whom we have read 
and heard: for the Hindoos are certainly diſtinguiſhed from 
all people on the face of the earth for their harmleſs and 
inoffenſi ve behaviour; and the province of Bengal and its 
inhabitants, are proverbially diſtinguiſhed from all other 
parts of India, for their gentleneſs of manners and harmleſs 
behaviour to their enemies as well as their friends. I have 
known among them men of canſiderable power and autho- 
rity, who were highly offended with me becauſe they ima- 
gined my work affected their intereſts : (Acts xx. 25) but 
I lived within a mile of them, in a lonely houſe, with my 
windows and doors wide open all night, without ſword or 


fire- arms, and free from the ſmalleſt apprehenſion of danger, 


However, this could not be prudently done in the neigh- 
bourhood of Calcutta. 


In the - year 1787, I began to learn to ſpeak and. write 
the Bengalee. Till the month of June or July this year, 


TI was engaged at Calcutta, and preached to a few Europeans 


there. In 1788, I could converſe freely with the natives, 


| eſpecially with thoſe I was well acquainted with.. In 1789, 


I began to find that my pronunciation was generally very 
defective, and conſequently that my preaching, for the moſt 
part, could not be underſtood : I had alſo begun to tranſlate. ' 
I remained there, the ſecond time, from the middle of 1786 


till the end of 1791 ; but had-no thoughts of ſtaying there 


till about the beginning of 1787, nor did I fit down to the 
work till about the middle of that year: ſo all the time ſpent. 
among them was five years and a half; but moſt of this 


time [ have preached twice every Lord's day to a congre- 


32 
gation of Europeans in the country, © Conſidering this, and 
the difficulties that muſt neceſſarily occur tothe firſt adven- 
turer, (for they have no dictionary, vocabulary, nor printed 
books to aſſiſt one, as in European countries) I ſay; eonſi- 
dering theſe things, the time may be reckoned but two or 
three years; and I doubt not but a perſon of a moderate 
capacity, may attain in that time as much knowledge of 
the language as I have; and I can now expreſs myſelf in 
prayer, preaching, and converſation, Ry to myſelf, 
"oy 1 to be underſtood by others. e 


fro %. RY e JOHN THOMAS, 


Letter from the Hi ndeo Chr; Ar lens ts to Rev. Mir, —— 


- 


USLAT. SIR, - Dated 7th doh Mang, 1280. 


WE ſinful heathens for a long time have uſed worſhip 
and ceremonies according to our own paganiſh ſhaſters and 
cuſtoms, and we have been accuſtomed to think, that differ- 
ent kinds of people having different kinds of ſbaſters, “ 
would þe ſaved by the works thereof. The deeds of the 
ſhaſters of this our country, you will be acquainted with 
by converſing with Mr. Thomas. 4 


x 


O great ſir, though we thought that, many nations had 
many kinds of ſhaſters, yet in the country of the Engliſh 
we thought there was no ſhaſter at all; for, concerning ſin 
and holineſs, thoſe who are here have no judgment at all. 
We have even thought that they were not men, but a kind 
of other creatures like deyourers. Within theſe ſix years 
it is our mercy and praiſe that Mr. John Thomas came into 
this country. Such a Kind of ootum f perſon we have nei- 


* Holy laws. 
+ Ootum, or beſt kind. They ſay there are 3 ſorts of men in the 


world. The ootum, muddheum, and e! ; that is, the beſt, middling, 
and worſt kind, 


ther ſcen, heard, or known of, at any time. On his com- 
ing here, he employed me as Moonſhi ; and after 1 had 


taught him a little Bengalee, he aſked me, Moonſhi, if you 
were to die now, whither would you go? How can I tell, 


Sir, ſaid I; I ſhall go where God will take me. True, ſaid 


he, but men in general, when they die, where do their ſouls 
go? 1 anſwered, All men go to a place according to their 
works : the holy go into heaven, and che ſinner goes into 
hell. He aſked me what heaven and hell, what fin and ho- 

lineſs were? to which I replied particularly. He, ſmiling, 
faid, How could a man be freed from his ſins by ſuch ſuper- 
ficial works as theſe? But none of us could anſwer him, 
only that it was written ſo in our ſhaſters, and that our 
forefathers, from generation to generation, had ſo obtained 
ſalvation : this was all we knew. Mr. Thomas knows 
the drift of our OO, and you repreſent them to vou. 


When be began to tell u us how men could be R Fn 
we greatly wondered, and we thought within ourſelves, 
theſe (Engliſh) are the unclean ; they have never had any 
ſhaſters, and how ſhould this man know the way of ſalva- 
tion? But we ſaid, Speak, Sir, and we will hear. He 
began to read to us the glad tidings of ſalvation out of the 
Bible; and as we heard him ſpeak, we were amazed and 
rejoiced. Now we know certainly that this is the ſhaſter 
of God, and the way of ſalvation. This will ſtand, and all 
others are utterly vain. O great Sir, we are now very 
thoughtful, and bethink ourſelves what have we been doing 
all this time? We deſerve the deep of hell as the fruit of 


our doings; at the thoughts of which we were greatly - 


troubled. But THE GOSPEL is begun to be publiſhed. The 
books of Matthew, Mark, and James, are almoſt ready, 
and the goſpel is coming into our country. Our Sahaib has 
preached in many 292 ; and wherever the people bave 
ED | F | 


— 


n there they have been amazed and glad. Several of us 
ho were before workers of iniquity, have now underſtood 
E evil of it; 1 our * 1 Ne known to * 


e 17 18 OUR Wien THAT THIS GREAT Wonp 
WAS TRANSLATED 1NTO BEN GM ER; as we hear, we 
make it known: but we are only a poor people, and cannot 
do as we wiſh. But we hope, great Sir, you will have 
compaſſion upon us, AND SEND PREACHERS INTO TH 


' COUNTRY, AND THEM THAT WILL HELP FORWARD 


THE TRANSLATION ; and that we ſinful people ſhall walk 


according to this cork, for whoſoever has faith in the Lord 
Jeſus Chriſt, will be cleanſed from bis ſins by his blood, 
and we do hope that he will an us in all theſe . 
Mor e in Him. : 


1 


Great sir, we have never ſeen hs the ootum people; 3 
the firſt we ever ſaw was Mr. Thomas; and by him we 


know that the greater people will ſhew compaſſion, Of 
other * we will write hereafter. This is all. _ 


Shree Parbotee, Brabiids, 
Shree Ram Ram Boſhoo, Caefts. 


— — 


| ON January 10, 1793, another Committee Meeting 
was held at Kettering, when the Secretary reported the re- 


ſult of his enquiries reſpecting Mr. Thomas, which were 
yy N to all . 


The Coinmittee being fully of opinion that a door was' 


now open in the Eaſt Indies for preaching the goſpel to the 


heathen, agreed to invite Mr. Thomas to go out under 


the patronage of the Society, engaging to furniſh him with 


a companion, if a ſuitable one could be obtained, Brother 


35 | 
Carey was then aſked; Whether, i in caſe Mr. Thomas: ſhould 
accede to our propoſal, he was inclined to accompany him? 
To which he readily anſwered in the affirmative. The 
ſame evening Mr. Thomas himſelf arrived at Kettering, 
and uy acceded to all our ee | 


\The objekt x now was to ele the en and ah 
tain the means of defraying them, in ſo ſhort a ſpace of time 


as three or four months. This difficulty, however, we were 


carried through by public generoſity ; for no ſooner were 
our brethren in different parts of the kingdom made ac- 
quainted with our deſign, than they immediately aſſiſted us 
by cheerful and liberal contributions. Many difficulties , 
were in the way, but none of them proved inſurmountable. 
A variety of concurring providences ſeemed to indicate that 
the hand of the Lord was in it. The church at Leiceſter, 
to whom'brother Carey was deſervedly dear for his works 
ſake, though greatly affected by the loſs of a faithful paſtor, 
yet offered no objeAion to his going. We have been 
praying (ſaid one of them) for the ſpread of Chriſt's king- 
dom amongſt the heathen ; and now God requires s to 
make the firſt ſacrifice to accompliſh it;“ and when ſome 
people who entered not into brother Carey s views, have 
blamed his deſign, the members of the church at Leiceſter 
to a man would vindicate him, although his departure muſt 
have tried their feelings greatly. 


The 75 forcible objeftion, and that which went _ 
to his heart, was his leaving his family behind him; yet 
the urgency of the call would not ſuffer him to decline the 
undertaking: he durſt not but determine to leave his family 
for a ſeaſon, and prepared to ſet ſail, accompanied only by 
his eldeſt ſon; but the great Diſpoſer of events appeared 
to countenance his deſign, and interpoſed in the moſt un- 
expected and ſurpriſing manner entirely to remove this dif- 


ficulty; for when at one period it ſeemed as though the 

Whole undertaking would be fruſtrated, that which threat - 
ened evil brought forth good, and proved the very means 

of all his family going with him. | 


Before their 1 we ſpent a e day with ur our 

brethren at Leiceſter, (March 20, 1793.) The 

was devoted to prayer: in the afternoon, brother 
preached from Pal, xvi. 4., and a public collection was 
made for the miſſion: in the evening, brother Hogg deli- 
vered a ſuitable diſcourſe on the ſolemn occaſion, from Acts 
xXx. 14., and after him brother Fuller addreſſed the miſſion- 
aries from John xx. 21. This ſervice was peculiarly af- 
fefting. After public worſhip, a letter was drawn up, ad- 
dreſſed to the Hindoo chriſtians in India, to whoſe conver- 
ſion brother Thomas had already been inſtrumental, and 
ſigned by the Committe and other brethren preſent. 


= 
” 2 
. — 2 


The 8 of the Charge delivered by our bro- 
ther Fuller to the Missionaries, at the parting 
meeting at Leicester, 


My very DEAR Pzzrunnn! 


EVERY part of the ſolemnities of this day muſt 
needs be affecting; hut if there he one part which is more 
ſo than the reſt, it is that which is allotted to me, delivering 
to you a ſolemn parting addreſs. Nevertheleſs, I muſt ac- 
knowledge, that the hope of your undertakings being 
crowned with ſucceſs, ſwallows up all my ſorrow. I could 
myſelf go without a tear, ſo at leaſt I think, and leave all 
my friends and connexions, in ſuch a glorious cauſe. Im- 
preſſed, therefore, with theſe ſentiments, I can * more 
readily and 6 part with you. 


My 6 ** you in SY 
our Lord Jeſus to his diſciples, John xx. 21, Peace be unt 
you, as my Father- ſent me, ſo ſend I you! The whole of 
this language was ſweet, eſpecially conſidering the troubles 

of their hearts to whom it was primarily addreſſed. 'The 
preface is ſweet, Peace be unto you—as if he had ſaid, All is 
well as to the paſt, and all ſhall be well as to the future. 
The commiſſion itſelf is ſweet. Nothing could well be 

more grateful to thoſe who loved Chriſt, than to be em- 


ployed by him on ſuch an errand, a A 
n . f 


a 


There is, to be ſure, a great diſparity between, your miſ- 
ſion and that of Chriſt. He came to offer himſelf a ſacri- 
fice for ſin, and by his blood to obtain eternal ſalvation, for 

poor loſt ſinners. Yet, notwithſtanding this diſparity, there 
are various points of likeneſs between your undertaking 
and that of your Lord and Maſter. I ſhall ſingle out three 
or four, which I would wiſh to impreſs upon your minds. 
Theſe are, the objects you muſt keep i in view—the direfions 
you muſt obſerve—the difficulties you muſt TINS 


the reward you may expect. 


Firſt: There is an analogy b the oBJECTS of 
Chriſt's miſſion, and thoſe of yours. The great objects 
of his miſſion were, to glorify God, and to ſeek and to fave 
loſt ſouls; and yours are the ſame. Men and devils had 
diſhonoured God; they had virtually called him a hard 
maſter; had thrown off his yoke, and repreſented him, in 
the puniſhment of fin, as a Being whoſe ways were not 
equal, But Chriſt, by his obedience and death, rolled 
away theſe reproaches. By the former, that is, by making 
it his meat and drink to do the will of his Father, he proved, 
in the face of a rebellious world, that his yoke was eaſy, 
and his burden light. By the latter, that is, by enduring 
the full penalty of we divine law without a CTY 


God was in the right, and that man deſerved to fall a ſacri- 


5 thought, he manifeſted its equity, declaring in effect that 


fice to his juſtice. - You alſo, my brethren, have to glorify. 
God; and that both by your cheerful obedience to his will, 


and by patiently enduring affliction. The heathen will 
judge of the character of your God, and of your religion, 
by: what they ſee of your own character. Beware that you 
do not miſrepreſent your - bleſſed Lord, and his glorious 


goſpel. It is a great encouragement to be engaged in the 


ſame cauſe with Chriſt himſelf. Does he ride forth as on a 
white horſe, in righteouſneſs judging, and--making war ? 
(Rev. xix.) Ye are called, like the reſt of the armies of 
heaven, to' follow him on white hotſes, purſuing the ſame 
glorious object, that India may be conquered by his truth. 


— 


May you be able at the cloſe of your lives to ſay, after the | 


example of your Lord, * I have glorified thee on earth ; 
I have finiſhed the work which thou gaveſt me to do.” 
Chriſt was ſent'of the Father, not only to glorify his 
name, but to ſeck and to fave that which was loſt ; and ſuch, 
my brethren, is your errand, Go then, after your Saviour's 
example, go in purſuit of the loſt ſheep ; follow after them, 


ſearch and find them out, that they may be brought home 


to his fold, from the dark mountains whither they have 
wandered, and gathered from the dreary deſarts whither 
they- have been ſcattered i in the dark and cloudy day ; that 
they may be delivered from the errors and abominations of 


the heathen, and be e to the knowledge and enjoy- 
ment of God. 


Secondly ; Chriſt, in the execution of his miſſion, was 
under the DIRECTI1ON of him that ſent him, and you muſt 
be the ſame. As mediator, he always acted as the Father's 
ſervant. Though a Son, and as ſuch equal with God, yet 
in his official capacity, he learned obedience. It is empha- 
tically ſaid of him, he both did and laut; and in wb he 


inflexibly adhered to the Sroftions of him that ane 7 . 
came dotun from heaven. not to do my: own will, but the will of 
him that ſent me. 1 have pot ſpaken 'of. myſelf, but the Father 
who ſent me, be gave me the commandment what I ſhould ſay, 
and. what I ſhould. ſpeak. ; Chriſt ated as the Father's fer- 
vant ; and you are the ſervants, of Chriſt. There is a 
woe upon any miniſter, if he preach not the goſpel of Chriſt, 
but eſpecially upon thoſe whoſe buſineſs it is to preach the 
goſpel among the heathen. Among us, if you do not preach 
the goſpel of Chriſt, others will; but there, all, under God, 
will depend upon you. When the Lord firſt planted the 
Ifraelites in Canaan, he planted them wholly a right ſeed. 
Be exceedingly careful to follow this example. See that 
the doctrines you teach, and the duties you inculcate, be 
not yours, but his who ſent you. A right ſeed is neceſſary 
to a profitable harveſt, You muſt likewiſe do the will of 
Chriſt, as well as teach it, and that after his example. He 
pleaſed not himſelf.. Perhaps no men muſt expect to have 
their wills ſo often croſſed, or to meet with ſo frequent calls 
for ſelf-denial, as thoſe who embark in ſuch an amn 
as . This leads me to obſerve, | 


Thirdly: Chriſt, in the execution of his miſſion, had 
great DIFFICULTIES and trials to encounter, and you muſt 
expect the ſame. The trials of your Lord were partly from 
pain, and- partly from contempt. Great were the hardſhips 
he had to undergo. Foxes had holes, and birds had neſts, 
but he had not where to lay his head. And notwithſtand- 
ing all that your brethren can do to make you comfortable, 
you may expect to taſte of the ſame cup. Your Lord was 
alſo expoſed to contempt. He is mad, faid they, why hear 
ye him? If theſe-things were done to the green tree, what 
may be expected of the dry? But Jeſus endured the croſs, 
and deſpiſed the ſhame. May you be enabled to follow his 
example. He met with trials, not only from open enemies, 


410 L | 
but from pretended friends. Thoſe who ate of his bread 
lifted up the heel againſt him. Betrayed, denied, and for- 
faken, he yet perſevered ; nor did he deſiſt till he could de- 
clare, Ii is finiſhed! Then, when he could appeal to him 
who ſent him, ſaying, I have finiſhed the work which thou 
gaveſt me to do, then he bowed his head, and gave up the 
con! What ; an un for you to follow! 


> Fourthly : Chriſt was not ſent forth i in his 1 
ao a promiſe of ſupport in it, and a glorious REWARD for 
it. It was predicted of him, be ſhall not fail nor be diſcou- 
raged, till he have brought forth judgment unto victory. 
This implied that he would meet with much to diſcourage 
him. If many waters could have quenched his love, it had 
been quenched : but divine Omnipotence ſupported him. 
And as his Father ſent him, ſo ſends he you. Faithfully 
has he promiſed to be with you always to the end of the 
world. The divine father promiſed him fouls for his hire; 
that he ſhould ſee of the travail of his ſoul, and be ſatisfied. 
And herein, as the Father ſent him, ſo ſends he you. You 
alſo ſhall have your reward. The joy ſet before him encou- 
raged him ta endure the croſs ; you alſo ſhall enter into the 
joy of your Lord. Keep that joy in your view; for it is 
a faithful ſaying, If we ſuffer with him, we ſhall alſo reign 
with him. Hearken to the promiſe of your Lord and Maſ- 

ter, © for his ſayings are very true,” 1% him that overcometh 
vill I grant to fit down with me in my throne, as J alſo have 
eren, and am ſet down with my Father in his throne. 

Go then, my dear ars ſtimulated by theſe proſpects. 
We ſhall meet again. Crowns of glory await you and us. 
Each, I truſt, will be addreſſed at the laſt day by our great 
Redeemer, Come, ye bleſſed of my Father ;—theſe were hungry, 
and you fed them; athirſt, and you gave them drink ; in pri- 
ſon, and you viſited them; enter ye into the jey of Hig Lord. 
— 


* 
. 


or „ 


41 


Copy of a Letter signed by the ministers and other 
christian Friends, on a solemn day of prayer at 


Leicester, previous to the departure of our mis- 


_ Sionaries for, India. 1 


The Society for propagating the goſpel among the hea- 
then, to Ram Ram Boſhoo, Parbotee, and all in India 


who call upon the name of Jeſus Chriſt our Lord, both 


theirs and ours, . 


DRARLIY BELOVED BRETHREN, 


WE rejoice that we have an opportunity of addrefling _ 


thoſe as fellow-chriftians, who till lately were loſt in hea- 
then darkneſs and ſuperſtition, The accounts which our 
beloved brother Thomas has given of you have greatly 
refreſhed us. For many years we have been praying. to 
God on your behalf; we knew but little of what our dear 
brother Thomas was doing among you, but had united 
together before we heard of his being in England, for the 
purpoſe of ſending the goſpel into heathen countries. Tt 
was by the ſpecial providence of God that we heard of 
him, and of the ſtate of things among you. We thankfully 
embraced the opportunity, and have ever ſince been heartily 
engaged in promoting the good work. From Aſia ſounded 


out the word of the Lord into Europe; glad ſhall we be 


to have that joyful ſound reverberate to Aſia again, and ex- 
tend to every part of the earth 


You requeſted in your letter ſent to one of our brethren, 
that “ Miſſionaries might be ſent to preach the goſpel 
among you, and to help forward the tranſlation of the word 
of God.“ For theſe purpoſes we recommend to you our 
much eſteemed brethren Thomas and Carey, men who we 
are perſuaded are 2 9 their lives * the 


- 


| 42 | 
name of the Lord Jeſus; men who will ſeek not yours, 
but you; men who, though not pretending to infallibility, 
we doubt not will labour to tranſlate the Bible as faſt as 
they are able; who will teach you the word of the Lord in 
truth, and adorn the doctrine they preach by a life of holi- 
neſs, righteouſneſs, and goodneſs. Receive them in the 
ou, and ſtrengthen their hands by moms. > with them in 
«every good word and work. | 


1 


we hope that upon the arrival of our brethren, you 

will be ſolemnly baptiſed in the name of the Father, the 
Son, and the Holy Spirit, the one living and true God, 
thereby putting on the Lord Jeſus Chriſt, making an open 
profeſſion of his name. Expect perſecutions and reproaches. 
All that will live godly in Chriſt Jeſus muſt ſuffer. perſe- 
cution, becauſe the hearts of men are by nature at enmity 
with God and true religion. But be not diſheartened ; 
tribulations will turn to your advantage, and the further- 
ance of the goſpel, through the bleſſing of your and our 
God, who will be with you to ſupport you in all your af- 
flictions. Only let your converſation. be as becometh the 
goſpel of Chriſt, that the enemies of godlineſs may have 
no evil thing to ſay of you. Shun all evil company, and 
all idolatrous aſſemblies and cuſtoms : «© Come ye out from 
among them, and be ye ſeparate, ſaith the Lord, and touch 
not the unclean thing, and I will receive you; and will be 
' a Father unto you, and you ſhall be my ſons and _ 
ters, ſaith the Lord Almighty.” 


Nevertheleſs, though you have no fellowſhip with the 
unconverted in their evil works, yet be courteous, kind, 
affable, pitiful, and ready to do good to all men, even to 
Jour enemies as occaſions may offer, Be faithful and juſt 
in all your dealings, ſpeaking the truth, and acting with 
; uprightneſs, Pray for thoſe that perfecute you. Conſider 
who it is that maketh you to differ, and pray that the fame 


almighty love which hath conquered your hearts may con- 
quer theirs. Let unchaſtity, and all manner of unclean- 
neſs, and all intemperance in eating and drinking, be un- 
known among you. Put far away all lying, and deceit, 
and treachery, and double dealing. Be ſubje& to the laws 
of your country in all things not contrary to the laws of 
God, Be obedient to your ſuperiors, and compaſſionate 
to your inferiors. Be faithful in all your relative connec» 
tions. Cultivate love, meekneſs, gentleneſs, gaodneſs, and 
mercy. If any of you be overtaken in a fault, be ready to 
reclaim and forgive, as Chriſt alſo has forgiven you. You 
have read the eighteenth chapter of Matthew on this ſub» 
ject. If any turn back after profeſſing the name of Chrifh 
and are not to be reclaimed, be not ſtumbled at it, but 
withdraw. yourſelves from all fellowſhip with them. Such 
things will be permitted to try your ſincerity. In ſhort, 
in your ſpirit and conduct let your countrymen behold 
the holy tendency of the doctrine of Chriſt, and we doubt 
not but God, your own God, will bleſs and multiply you 
abundantly. 


Dear brother Ram FI Boſhoo 7 


Thouſands in our ſolemn aſſemblies have road. and ſung 
your goſpel'hymn,* with joy, and hope, and brotherly Wig !, 
Your ſentiments and feelings are ours! We feel- that we 
are brethren! Though wide oceans divide us, we are of 
one ſpirit! We have heard of your labours of love. Go 
on, very dear brother, and by every mean in your power, 
diſſeminate the knowledge of Jeſus Chriſt. Teach the 
golpel which, you have heard and learned. Teach your 
countrymen, by pfalms, and hymns, and ſpiritual _ to 
_ melody in their hearts to the Lord. 


© Tt has bees thrown into Engliſh metre, abt ſung in many of our 
prayer meetings for the ſpread of the goſpel, See the cloſe of this number, 


44 


Dear brother Parte | 7 


* 


We have been made e with the cFeBing: cif- - 

ces of your converſion to our Lord J eius Chriſt; * 

and we greatly rejoice with you and for you. It does our 
Hearts good to hear of your readineſs to avow your attach- 
ment to him; and that you have declared yourſelf ready to 
Encounter all the difficulties and perſecutions that might 
follow your being baptiſed in his name. Go on, dear bro- - 
ther. Eternal life is before you! Be you alſo a helper of 
our brethren. Endeavour by every mean to teach others 
what you know of Chrift ; and adorn your profeſſion «ty an 
unblemiſhed converſation. * 


4 ” 


Might we add, (ſurely we may) Dear brother 2 
Chund / 


We have heard of your ſerious attention to the preach. 
ing of the goſpel, of your being convinced by it that you 
was a great ſinner before God, that there was no refuge for 
you among all your ſhafters, and that the goſpel alone was 
of God, diſcoveriug the way of ſalvation ; and farther, that 
you had diſuſed the idolatrous worſhip of your countrymen 3 - 
had forbidden the vain homage paid. you by the deluded 

« People, and had ſubjected yourſelf to temporal loſs for 
Chriſt's ſake: yes, we have heard of your adherence to the 
goſpel when viſited by Parbotee previous to his converſion, 
and how when threatened by him reſpecting loſing caſt, 

You left the company, and went and poured out your com- 
plaint to God in prayer. And moreover, when he came to 
you in the agony of his ſoul, requeſting to hear the goſpel, 
you directed him in the way of eternal life. O brother 

Mohun Chund! can you think how it grieved us to hear 

after all this, that your heart failed you in a time of trial; 


F See Mr. Thomas's account of Parbotee, p- 23. 


45 SS: 
that you diſſembled for a piece of bread! Surely your heart 
has ere now ſmitten you! Our Redeemer is merciful! 
Remember Simon Peter]! But he alſo is holy, and jealous 
of his honour. He who denieth him before men, and repent- 


eth not, him will he deny before his Father 1 the holy 
angels! | | 


Dearly beloved brethren, farewell ! Thouſands of 
prayers have already been offered up on your behalf! 
Thouſands more will follow! Let us have yours for us 
in return! The grace of our Lord Feſus Chriſt, the love of 
Ged, and the communion . the Holy — be with you all. 
Amen. Amen. 


— 


ON June 13, 1793, the miſſionaries ſet ſail on board 
the Princeſſa Maria, a Daniſh Eaft Indiaman, Captain 
Chriſtmas. The annual Aſſociation at Northampton was 
near that time, and the following addreſs to the churches 
was publiſhed in their Circular Letter, 


f 


Address of the ministers and messengers of the 
Northampton Association, to the several asso- 
ciated churches. 


DEAR BRETHREN, 


HAVING again enjoyed our annual interview with 

each other, and heard the accounts you ſent us of your 
ſtate, which, on the whole, afforded us ground of thank- 
fulneſs and pleaſure ; you will be expecting to receive from 
us the uſual circular addreſs, whereby we have been accuſ- 
tomed to ſtir up your pure minds by way of remembrance, 


that we might eſtabliſh you in your moſt holy faith, and 
provoke you to love and good works. 


In order to avoid too great a ſameneſs in our epiſtles, 


Ns 


and that they might prove more NP ET: uſeful, v we bave 


deen uſed to ſelect before-hand ſome divine ſubject, and to 


appoint one of our brethren to diſcuſs it in the general 


Letter, previous to our yearly meeting; that it might then 


be read before the miniſters and meſſengers of the aſſociated 
churches, and receive their correction and approbation. 
The laſt ſubje& on which we addreſſed you, was 6oDLY 
ZEAL, and we hope that excellent grace was not deſcribed 
and recommended in vain. We bleſs God, that ſince the 
publication of that letter, you have had an opportunity of 
exerting your zeal, by encouraging an attempt, too long 


neglected by ourſelyes and our predeceſſors, to ſpread the 


glorious goſpel of our bleſſed Lord in the heathen world. 
— We had propoſed this year to have written to you upon 
Joy in GopD; and though mournful occurrences have 
taken place in the world around, yet neither the dreadful 


ſtagnation of trade, nor the horrid calamities of war, would 


have rendered it unſeaſonable to encourage the ſons of 
Zion to rejoice in their King. It certainly becomes us to 
mourn for the diſtreſſes of our country, and the miſeries of 
mankind; for the abominations of the land, and the low 
eſtate of the church; and above, all, for the defects of our 
own characters, and the evils of our hearts and lives: but 
all theſe cauſes of grief are not incompatible with joy in 
the Holy Spirit. We may glory in tribulation ; and even 
in the midſt of penitential ſorrow, our ſouls may exult in 


the riches of grace, and triumph in redeeming love. 


May your ſacred joy be increaſed, though our letter on 
that ſubje& is deferred, through the unexpected removal of 
our beloved brother who was appointed to draw it up. By 
his being called away from his ſtation among us, to attend 

our other dear brother, who had alrealy reaped ſome firſt- 
fruits under God from the regions of Indoſtan, we have loſt 
a Letter upon Fey; but we have found a new ſubje& for 


47 
the Sein of that delightful grace. His brethren; who 
valued his company and friendſhip, cannot, amidſt all the 
regrets oocaſioned by his departure, refrain from joy; and 
even his affectionate people, who are for a time left deſti- 
tute of a paſtor, are enabled to rejoice that they had ſuch 
a ſacrifice to make; and that the love of Chriſt conſtrained 
him to. leave the oqninitions he loved, and made them 
willing to acquieſce in the call of God. Bleſſed be our 
divine Saviour who put into his heart, ſo many years paſt,' 
ſo peculiar a ſolicitude for the ſalvation - of the heathen: - 
and has now given him an opportunity for the nobleſt gra- 
tification that earth can afford. He, and all his family, with 
his guide and fellow-labourer, are, we truſt, rejoicing in 
that God who rules the ocean which ſurrounds them; 
while the Indian converts are longing and waiting for the 
arrival of the miſfionaries they requeſted. We will follow' 
them with our moſt ardent prayers, hoping before this time 
twelve months, to have good news from a far country, to 
furniſh our churches with further ground of rejoicing. 


Yes, beloved, we have ſown, not without tears of joy ; 
and we truſt in God, that in due ſeaſon we ſhall reap, not 
fainting. You generally know with how ſmall a beginning 
our little Society for propagating the goſpel commenced z 
and you ſee how ſurpriſingly and ſpeedily God has prof. 
pered and ſucceeded our attempts. Before Zion travailed 
ſhe brought forth. Before our ſociety was formed, one of 
our brethren was employed, unknown to us, in the good 
work, and ſome ſeals had been granted to his miniſtry. 
The Hindoos had written for miſſionaries, while we were 
forming our plan, and their anſwer to our enquiry was at 
hand, while we were aſking, Whither ſhall we firſt ſend 
forth in the name of the Lord of Hofts ? The account of 
the riſe of our ſociety is already in moſt of your hands, 
and in due time farther particulars will be laid before you, 


5 our friends in 8 1 In the mean Aae it was pro- 
poſed at the Aſſociation, that for this time, inftead of the 
=. uſual inſtructions circulated through the churches, we; 
=! ſhould give you a copy of the charge delivered to our, 
1 ; bretaren at our ſolemn parting with them, and - likewiſe of, 
. the letter addreſſed to the Hindoos. This, it is ſaid, would 
* be gratifying to many, while it would tend to keep, alike 
the zealous concern that has been felt for the ſalvation of 
the heathen. That concern, we are happy. to ſay, has not Tg 
been confined to our aſſociated Connexions, though it has 
8 through i it 1 er., 


With gratitude to: the God of all grace, and to our dear 
brethren in various parts of the kingdom, we acknowledge. 
| that he bas ſtirred up their hearts to concur with our de- 
3 | ' ſign, and to ſend us generous aid from the diſtant extremi- 
| ties of the land. You know already how early and how 
= liberally we received encouragement from Birmingham; 
= j - where a correſponding ſociety was immediately eſtabliſhed. 
3 in aid of the miſſion; and by the inſtrumentality of our 
4 active friends, we foon derived farther aſſiſtance from ſeve- 
2 ral churches in Warwickſhire, Shropſhire, and other adja- 
| cent counties. From Y orkſhire, and its borders, where our 
brethren, unknown to us, had choſen the ſame ſubject of 

chriſtian zeal for their laſt year's letter, we ſoon received 
; : a noble evidence that they had not been meditating on a 
1 topic they did not feel. The eſtabliſnment of a ſociety | 
ll there, which ſent us two hundred pounds in proof of their 
1 | fraternity, cauſed our hearts to rejoice in that union which 
flows from the love of Chriſt. From many of our ſiſter 
churches, both in the neighbourhood of this aſſociation, and 
in more remote parts of the island, we have received ſub- 
ſtantial ſuccour ; in ſome inſtances unſolicited, and in many 
beyond our expectations. From Newcaſtle, Plymouth- 
Dock, Cambridge, Luton, Devizes, Bath, and Frome ; 


from ſeveral places in Hampſhire, Suffolk, Effex, and Kent, 
have kind and conſiderable donations been tranſmitted. 
Briſtol, and the great metropolis of our land, have lent aſ- 
ſiſtance in this good work, with a generoſity. for which the 
inhabitants of thoſe cities have long been renowned; and 
which the ſad ſhocks given to commerce and public credit, 
before their benefactions were ſolicited, could not ſuppreſs. 
Nor has this encouragement been received merely from our 
own denomination. Though this Society honeſtly acknow- 
ledged that its founders were of the particular baptiſt. per- 
ſuaſion, we are ſure it was not the intereſt of a party they 
wiſhed , to promate, but the glory of our divine Lord, and 
the ſalvation.of immortal ſouls. Hence it was propoſed at 
firſt, if no opening was ſoon. found for a baptiſt miſſion, ta 
have [requeſted the Preſbyterian and the Moravian brethren; 
who had been alteady employed in labouring among the 
heathen, to accept ſome aſſiſtance from our ſubſcriptions; 
for, by the leave of the God of heaven, we were determined 
to do ſomewhat toward propagating his goſpel in pagan 
lands. The providence of God pointing out ſo ſpeedily a a 
ſphere of action ſufficient to. require all our exertions, pre- 
vented this teſtimony of our brotherly love for the preſent; + 
but he who knew our hearts in the requeſt, has inclined 
our brethren to ſhew us favour. Our pædobaptiſt brethren 
have not looked upon us with a jealous eye; but evangelical 
epiicopalians, as well as different claſſes of diſſenters, not- 
withſtanding their difference of judgment and practice reſ- 
pecting one of the poſitive inſtitutions of the New Teſta- 
ment, have befriended our deſign; and ſome friends belong- 
ing to the people called quakers, who ſuppoſe the ordinance 
from which we are denominated has ceaſed, have ſent in 
unſolicited aid. One of the miniſters of the unitas fratuum 
ſent us pecuniary aſſiſtance; and another in a molt friendly 
letter expreſſed his earneſt wiſhes for our ſucceſs, and with 
great candour and piety ne ſome of our printed en- 


— 


— — — 
— 


— — — 
— — — —— — 
—— ——ͤ— — ͤ ˙—ßb f I 


— ̃—ʒ 
— 
—— & 
—— P — 


——— 


— 


— 2 — r 


— _ — - 

JIN I — aaa 7 > xo, _ — — = 

— —— — ——, . — — ——— * — — my X — — EE — — 
qe - * * * * — =, IS 


— 


Aries reſpecting the hoedful e of miſſionaries, 


__ the advice proper to be "OE „ LL 


- Dearly beloved e what. hall we 3 ants 


God for all his goodneſs towards us! We have complained 


with the church of old, (Iſai. xxvi. 27, 18.) that we bad 


nt wrought any deliverance in the earth, neither have the inba- 


bitants F the world fallen, before the weapons of our war- 
fare! But we truſt our Lord is going forth conquering 
and to conquer. In the name of our God will we lift up 
our banners, and we hope we ſhall ſoon ſing of the triumphs 
of his croſs. Our brethren are gone out upon an arduous 
undertaking. Their difficulties will be many: and they 
are but imperfet men. Let us pray daily for them; and 


look out for freſh openings in the heathen world. Deny 
- yourſelves in ſuperfluous expences, and ſave more for God. 


About nineteen parts of the world out of thirty are pagans 
fill! And ſtil the eaſtern and weſtern antichriſt count 
their votaries by millions. O pity a benighted world! 
Let the love of Chriſt conſtrain you. Surely pur Redeemer 
has not yet received one half of the reward he RE by 
TRANG of his ſoul. 


Let it appear that you have fours e of the ſame 
kind of love to ſouls that was in Chriſt Jeſus. His love to 
immortal fouls induced him to lay himſelf out for their good 
inceſſantly. When he was found in faſhion as a man, and 
felt all the innocent infirmities of humanity, the proſpect of 
faving a Samaritan adultreſs made him forget his own hun- 


ger and fatigue, and the delight his mind took in his Fa- 
ther's buſineſs infuſed freſh vigour into his weary body. 


All through his life on earth it was his meat and his drink 
to be doing good, though he inceſſantly endured the con- 


tradition of ſinners againſt himſelf: and though their 
enmity became more and more inveterate, he was not te 


31 


be overcome of evil, but died praying for his murderers. 
Dear brethren, let us aſpire after more of the ſame diſinte - 


reſted benevolence that was ſo perfectly exemplified by ou 


bleſſed Lord. Imitate his ſelf-denial, his diligence, his ar- 


dour, his unwearied zeal. Shew that the objects which lay 


1. near to his 1 lie very near n 


11 * given us be don that thn nee 
of our diftant friends have been attended with many prayers: 
At Folkſtone, in Kent, where our brethren had only re- 
ceived information of our. attempt from the republication 
of our plan in the Baptiſt Regiſter, they immediately formed 
a correſponding ſociety in aid of the Miſſion, and appointed _ 
a monthly meeting for extraordinary prayer upon the 


ſubject, to be attended with a collection for the ſame pur- 


poſe. We hope others will imitate this example, eſpecially 
where the monthly prayer-meeting for the revival of reli- 
gion was not previouſly eftabliſhed. In. the churches of 
our aſſociation, and many others who had for ſome years 
paſt united with us in that practice, we hope the ſtate of 
the heathen will be particularly remembered, as well as the 
revival of evangelical piety among ourſelves, and other pro- 
teſtant churches; and we truſt you will then, and at other 
times, continue to pray far the miſſionaries who are already 
gone out, and beg that the Lord will raiſe up more ſuch 
labevrers, and open a door for them in other pagan coun- 
tries, The work in which, our brethren are engaged is 
arduous, their difficulties and temptations will be many, and 
though we highly eſteem them, we know they are imperfe&t 
men, liable to err and miſtake, unleſs the Lord ſhall keep 
them continually. Therefore. we beſeech you to be much 


in prayer for Hows that the Lore ale n ang e 
them. 1 5 ke 


After ſome Gogular TO OPT Anne FT: which 
remarkably made way for all brother Carey's family te. 


attend bien they ſet off in good health and ſpirits,” One of 


them wrote thus to a miniſter in London, at three o'clock 


in the morning of their departure: The ſhip-is come 


the ſignal made—the guns are fired—and we are going 
with a fine fair wind. Farewell, my dear. brethren and fiſters, 


farewell. May the God of Jacob be ours and yours, by 
ſea and land, for time and eternity! Moſt affeRionately 


. adieu !”-—A1l circumſtances combine to encourage us, be- 


loved brethren, to go on in this attempt. Future diflicul. 


ties may occur, but he that has helped us thus far, will {till 


be a God at hand, and a God afar oft; to help us at home, 
and them abroad. Let us rely upon him. And if you do 


not find your utmoſt hopes accompliſhed on their firſt arri - 
val, be not diſheartened. Remember how long David 
Brainerd laboured among the Indians in North America 


before his labours were crowned: with. ſuch great ſucceſs. 
And in Greenland, the Moravian' brethren waited a conſi- 
derable time before the ſeed they ſowed in that unhoſpitable 
climate began to promiſe a joyful harveſt. But if the hus- 
bandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the: earth, and hath 
long patience for it, until he receive the early and the. latter 
ain; be ye alſo patient; flabliſh your. hearts; for the coming 
of the Lord draweth nigh; then the reapers ſhall receive 


their wages, and gather fruit unto eternal life, that bath * 


that * and he that Om? may _ and 


Dear tan, we cloſe this ſhort title by committing 
you to God, and to the word of his grace; praying, that 
while we and you are ſolicitous for the ſalvation of thoſe 
that were brought up in heatheniſm, we may alſo find the 
work of the Lord going forward among ourſelves ; that 


many ſouls may be effectually awakened, convinced, and 


converted, in our congregations, who, though they have 


been drought up in a land of goſpel light, are at preſent 


as far from vital godlineſs as profeiled pagans : and may 


each of us, who have already profeſſed to have been turned 
from darkneſs-unto light, be enabled to walk as the children 
of the light, and of the day; having no fellowſhip with 
the unfruitful works of darkneſs; but living as ſuch who 
are the lights of the world, the falt of the earth. Your 
privileges are glorious, your obligations are proportionable, 
Your principles tend in the moſt powerful manner to con- 
ſtrain you to depart from all iniquity, and to abound in the 
work of the Lord. If, indeed, you know. thoſe things 
which are contained in the goſpel of Jeſus, happy are ye if 
your. whole deportment evinces the influence of evangelical 


truth upon your hearts and lives! The grace of our Lord 
Jeſus Chrift be with you all. Amen. 4. 


Northampton, June 6. 1793. 


Auguſt 4. 1794. Several of our friends having re- 
ceived letters from the miſſionaries,® a committee meet- 
ing was held at Guilſborough, and the different letters read; 
on which the following reſolutions were agreed to- — 


1. That the ſame ſalary of £150. allowed to our bre- 
thren Carey and Thomas for the firſt year, be continued 


the ſecond year, beginning Nov. 7. 1794, and to be equally 
divided between them, 8 | 


2. That as it will be neceſſary for ſome time, that 
they ſhould have the aſſiſtance of ſome of the natives in 
order to enable them to learn the Shanſcrit and Bengal 
languages, the ſum of £20 per annum be allowed to each, 
e the cha of thoſe extra 5 


* Aoi e af Meir Thomas » and her daughter had 


come to hand before direct intelligence was received from the miſſionaries 
themſelves. : 


54 
8. That in conſideration of brother Carey's family 


being the moſt numerous and OS the ſum of 2 
. en to his income. e ; 


| top "That a Polyglott Bible 0 a Miter Teſtament 
be ſent to our brethren, to be added to the Society 8 library | 


in Bengals, hd 1 5 4 & 4 


F. That a brief account of the origin and e 
of this foclety be printed, together with ſuch extracts from 
the correſpondence of the miſtionaries, as may appear likely 
to convey to the public a true ſtate of the miſſion, and tend 
to promote che intereſts of the — n 228 


% a 0 
L Ny 


Extracts from letters received 7 rom brother Carey, 
Jrom the time of his arrival in India to Febru- 


| Ys #7 94, inclusive. 


Toa 0 the « church at. Las eter, lah under ; hi pee care. 


3921 4 men, Dec. * 1755 
Mr VERY DEAR | FRIENDS; 


LONG before this time I polio to hn font you 
an account of my welfare, and of the dealings of God with 
me; but having been prevented till now, I embrace the 
preſent opportunity with - pleaſure, and referring you to 
Mr. Y for an account of my voyage, and all the 
incidents relating to it, I ſhall principally addrefs myſelf to _ 
von (as to thoſe whoſe eternal welfare 1 have much at heart) 
reſpecting the things of God. Often do I recollect with 
a mixture of pleaſure and pain, the ſweet communion which 
I have enjoyed with you. To n delighted not only to 
communicate the goſpel of Chriſt, but my own ſoul alſo, 
becauſe you were dear unto me; and particularly ſhall 1 
always remember the memorable time of my parting from 
you=that was indeed the trial of love; but the great. un- 


% y 


53 


dertaking in which I am engaged W And till 
weighs down in my mind =" other conſideration. N e 


I have, certainly loſt much fecial Pleaſure 3 I came 
hither, as I cannot preach yet, except to-my own fly, 


not being ſufficiently acquainted with the language; not 


have I at preſent more than one chriſtian friend to whom I 
can open my mind, except my dear colleague, Mr. Thomas. 
I am ſurrounded by heathens : all places in the country 
are full of monuments of idolatry, and every morning great 
numbers of people may be ſeen at the river's ſide, paying 
their devotion to the water, which they take up in handfuls, 
and pray to in the moſt fervent manner.“ Temples to 


Seeb, Biſhnoo, and Brimha, are every where to be ſeen; ; a_ | 


* A veheration for the elements, but expecially fire 8 wa- 
ter, seem to have been common to all the ancient eaſtern na- 
tions. The Medes and Persians considered fire and water as 
the only true images of the Divinity; and it is evident, that the 
Hindoos, if they do not worship fire, hold it in religious respect. 
Every day at sun- rise the priests go to some river, or to the 
tanks of their temples, to perform the Sandivaney, or worship 
to Brahma the supreme. 


SKETCHES OF THE Hixpoos, vol. i. p. 232. 


Of all their rivers, the Ganges is most highly venerated, 
because, as they say, it takes away all the Spots of sin, and 


therefore the Indians go in crowds to wash in it. This virtue, 


they say. belongs to this river because it does not take its 
source from the bosom of the earth, but springing from the foot 
of their god Vishnou, it descends from heaven into the paradise 
of Devendre, and from thence into Hindostan.— This river was 
believed by many ancient jews and christiaus to be the Pison 
of paradise. (Gen. ii, 10.) It takes its rise from the moun- 
taivs of Thibet, thence proceeding to the West; after wander- 
ing through different valleys, it rushes through an opening in 
the mountains at Hurdwar, and flows a smooth navigable 
stream in a course of about 1350 miles, through the plains 
of Hindostan to the sea. At the distance of 500 miles from 
the sea, the channel is 30 feet deep when the water is lowest. 


See MaJor RygnweLs Map and Memoirs. 


" ; 6 ; - 


. 


| flowers conſecrated to ſacred purpoſes, are preſerved grow- 


women with .their huſbands is a practice too frequent :* 


1 


This inhuman practice at present prevails most in the 


Mahratta dominions, and in the countries of the ancient Rajah's, 


where instances of the kind are frequently to be met with. 
Their Law says, It is proper for a woman to burn herself 
with her husband's corpse, and the brahmans teach, that those 
who burn themselves with their husbands, shall be exalted to the 
SUTTEE,. or highest sphere, where the god BRHIMA and his 
particular favourites reside. : 


A number of instances have been given to the public by 
Europeans who have been witnesses to the miserable scene. 
Two cases may give the reader of these sheets some idea of this, 
barbarous rite. The first is thus described by Mr. Hodges. 


„ The person mo T saw, was of the Bayse, or mer- 
chant cast. Upon my repairing to the spot on the banks of the 
river where the ceremony was to take place, I found the body 
of the man on the bier, and covered with linen, already brought 


down, and laid at the edge of the river, At this time (about 


ten in the morning) only a few people were assembled, who 
displayed the most perfect apathy and indifference at the catas- 


trophe that was to take place. After waiting a considerable 


time, the wife appeared, attended by the brahmans, and music, 


with some few. relations. The procession was slow and solemn; 


the victim moved with a steady and firm step; and, apparently 
with a perfect composure of countenance, approached close to 
the body of her husband, where ſor some time they halted, She 
then addressed those who were near her with composure, and 
without the least trepidation of voice, or change of countenance, 
She held iu her left hand a cocoa nut, in which was a red colour 
mixed up, and dipping in it the forefinger of her right hand, she 
marked those near her to whom she wished to shew the last act 


of attention. As at this time I stood close to her, she ob- 


served me attentively, and with the colour marked me on the 
forehead. She might be about twenty-four or five years of 
age, a time of life when the bloom of beauty has generally fled 
the cheek in India; but still she preserved a sufficient share 


to prove that she must have been handsome. Her figure was 


small, but elegantly turned; and the form of her hands and 


- arias. was particularly beautiful. Her dress was a loose robe of 


„ COS. Se Fd 


* 


e . „ 


hg 


57 
We were at Nuddea (an eminent place for learning) laſt 
LEY 467, and were informed that ua a N ago | two 


MX © . 


white Wine en mat ends Ute ber bead to ber bet 
The place of the sacrifice was higher up on the bank of the river, 
100 yards or more from the place where we now stood. The 
pile was composed of dried branches, leaves, and rushes, with 
a door on one side, and arched and covered on the top: by the 
Side of the door stood a man with a lighted brand. From the 
time the woman appeared, to the taking up of the body to con- 
vey it to the pile, might occupy a space of balf an hour, which 
was employed in prayer with the -brahmans, in attentions to 
those who stood near her, and conversation with her relations. 
When the body was taken up, she followed close to it, attended 
by the chief brahman; and when it was deposited in the pile, 
she "bowed to all around her, and entered without speaking. 
The moment she entered, the door was closed, the fire was 
put to the combustibles, which instantly flamed, and immense 
quantities of dried wood and other matters were thrown upon 
it, This last part of the ceremony was accompanied with the 
Shouts of the multitude, who now became numerous, and the 
whole Seemed à mass of confused REJOICING.” 


See Hopags's TRAVELS IN In pra, p- 59583. 


A-second instance, more dreadful than the former, is . 


in a letter from Father Ma RTIN, A owns missionary in 
_ Madura. 


« The acince of MaRrava, dying i in 1710, his wives, to 
the number of YORTY-SEVEN, were burned with bis corpse in 
the following manner :—They digged a deep ditch without the 
town, and in it erected a pile of wood, on the top of which the 
deceased was laid, richly. clothed and adorned; when they had 
set this on fire, with a world of ceremonies performed by the 
brahmans that company of unfortunate women appeared, co- 
vered with jewels, and adorned with flowers, like s0 many vic- 
tims designed for the saerifice. They walked several times about 
the pile, the heat of which was perceived at a great distance. 
The chief of them having addressed the successor of the late 

prince, resigned the dagger oſ the deceased into his hands, who 
took it without sbewing the least sign of grief or compassion. 
Alas! said she, what farther comes of all human happiness! 
I AM SENSIBLE I AM THROWING MYSELF HEADLONG: Ir 
UELL! These words struck 4 the. *** with bhoxcor. 


. 


38 

women devoted themſelves in this manner. The practice 

She had a christian woman in her service, who frequently dis- 
coursed: with her concerning the truths. of revealed religion, in 
order to persuade her to embrace christianity, but without suc- 
cess. She having spoke thus, boldly turned her face to the pile, 
and calling upon her gods, flung herself into the midst of the 
flames. The second of these women was the sister of Rata, 
a prince of the blood, who assisted at that, detestable ceremony. 

When he received the jewels from his sister with which she was 
adorned, he broke out into tears, embracing her most tenderly: 
she seemed unmoved at it, and with a resolute countenance, 
looking sometimes at the pile, and sometimes at the assistants, 

. ried with a loud voice, Sheeva, Sheeva, which is the name of 
one of her idols, and threw herself into the flames as the first 
had done. The other women followed her soon after; some 
of them appeared composed, and others were cast down and bewil- 
dered. One of them, frighted above the rest, ran to a christian 
soldier who was present, and begged of him to save her. But 
he, stunned with surprise, pushed the unfortunate ereature from 
him into the GLO WING PIT, and retired immediately; but 50 
terrified, that he soon fell ill of a fever and frenzy, of which he 
died the night following. Whatever intrepidity some of these 
women discovered at first, yet, as soon as they felt the flames, 
they roared in a most dreadful] manner ; and, tumbling over each 
other, strove to gain the brim of the pit, but in vain; for the 

- assistants prevented it by throwing upon them large pieces of 

wood. The next day the brahmans gathered their bones, which 
they threw into the sea. The pit was levelled, a temple built on 
the spot, and the deceased prince, with his wives, reckoned 
among the deities.” pg 

| Propagation of christianity, vol. it. p. 156—7. 


Some Hindoos, though few, bury the dead; and it is said, 
that among these it is the duty of the widow to BURY /HERSELF 
with the body of her husband. The religious ceremomes being 
performed, she descends jnto the grave with him, and taking 
the body in her arms, is with it covered with the earth. In the 
countries in which I have been, | have heard of two instances of 
this horrid ceremony, x-. CRAUFURD. 


A French author, speaking of this barbarous rite, says, 
© Au lieu de bruler ces femmes qui veulent movurir apres la mort 
„ de leur maris, ils tes entertent peu à pen toutes vives, jJusqu'a 
& 1a gorge, et puis tout d'un coup se jettent deux uu trois dessus, 
« leurs tordent le cou, et les ächevent d'etouffer” BERN ERK. 


59 
of ſwinging by the backs is very common, I have ſeen the 
ſcars ariſing from it in the backs of many perſons, and a 
perſon now lives in the ſame houſe with me who carries 
them in his fleſh. | Notwithſtanding all-this, they are a 
very attentive and inquiſitive people, and very kind and 


friendly; nor do I perceive __ thing nee in the 
conduct of the Mahometans. + FR 


I feel happy in being here, and begin to know a little 
of the language. We have been here almoſt a month, and 
© have hitherto lived with Europeans at a Portugueſe, ſettle- 
ment, and the people are papiſts ; but next week we go 
entirely to live among the natives. At Nuddea, the brah- 
mans 4 and pundits are very deſirous that we ſhould come 
and preach the goſpel. Nuddea is a very large town, con- 
taining about 3000 families, 800 of whom are brahmans. 
Could we ſucceed here, the prejudices of almoſt all the 
people in India would ceaſe, as it is the place which greatly 
rules religion all over the country. The work is God's ; 
his e is on our ſide, and in his Arrength we 80 forth. 


I much want to hear from you. Have you got another 
miniſter? A ſpiritual holy as Are you cloſely Pity 


* See Mr. Thomas's 8 p. 28. 


+ The Hindoos are the Aborigines: of the country, but ever 
since the conquest of India by Timur Bec, or Tamerlane, in, 
the year 1398, a great part of Hindostan has been subject to 
the Mahomedan power; yet the Hindoo subjects of the Mogul's 


empire, are supposed to be some hundreds to one compared 
with their conquerors. 


t The brahmans are the ecclesiastics of the country, suc+ 
cessors to the BRACHMANS, who were a branch of the ancient 
Gymnosophists, or philosophers of India. 


$ It is with pleasure and thankfulness that the church at 
Leicester gave an are reply to this interrogation; the 


=> 
— EEE . aro 


— 

— —»Ü—TnRĩ ̃ ⁰ 
— — 
— — 


— * — 
— . = 
FIR or 
a 2 — — 
— CI — 


7 — — — — 
0 — * — 
— — — ” 
8 * — + * b 
* 2 


* —— * — — — 
— — —_— — = — 4 = pa — — — — — — — 
— . vo 9 - — * ow _—— 8 — pe _——_ — — = — 
— = —_— 2 * ——— — — — = — — _ — — — - —— — 3 —ꝛ — 8 
— — — — ä rn —LA—„tũu a —ä— — = — — — — — — = 
— — . — —— — — - — . — - — - > T — — 2 — — 
. Det M4 * — PER. 2 <> Cd ER Iu aye Colt a5 — * o Py — 2 — == ”—_ 
: — — — — — W 
E 2 - 3 — — 
— % 
. 4 * 
2 
* - 
- o 
- . * 
* b 
N 7 oof 


— 


: 60 


gung ſpiritual things? And do you cloſely and conſtuntly 
keep to prayer meetings and church meetings? Are you 
not only at peace, but do you live in LOVE, and have you 
fervent ' charity among yourſelves? O that I may hear 
good of you! Be very attentive to diſcipline=the neglect 


ol that has ſunk you low before; now, pray iny dear friends, 


avoid the quagmire into which you have before fallen. 
Endeavour to carry it friendly one to another, and to be 
helpers of one another in the ways and work of God: and 


| if any be fallen, you that are ſpiritual reſtore ſuch an one 


in the ſpirit of meekneſs. Love your miniſter, and conſi- 
der him as a man. How do my fury Friends do? How 
do they go on who were baptiſed the two laſt times before 


1 left you? They, and all of you, are often upon my heart 


before God. How do my dear old friends do? | take 
wie in the remembrance of their love and friendſhip, 

ow many have been added? Who converted? Who 
dead? What changes have taken place among you? Who | 
removed from you? Is there any preaching at Thurmaſton, 
Syſton, Sileby,z &c.? Be very particular in giving me 


great Head of the church having ſavoured them with a miuister 
soon after Mr. Carey left them, whose services have been ren- 
dered both pleasant and useſul; viz. Mr. B. Cave, who, after 
a probation of several months, was publicly set apart for the 
pastoral office, Sep. 24. 1794. | 


* The church has been enlarged by two pleasing additions 
this year, of twelve persons at one time, and five at another. 
— Since the first edition of this number, the church at Leicester 
has been favoured with farther increase, so that above forty _ 
members have been added since brother Carey left it; and a 
goudly number of young people are now seeking the kingdom of 
God with full purpose of heart. 1 


+ Villages in the neighbourhopd of Leicester, where brother 
Carey used often to preach the word of life ; and where (Thur- 
maston excepted) his successor still carries the glad tidings of 
zalyation by the blood of the Lamb: as also Blaby and Desford. 


61 


be unimportant to me. I ſhould rejoice to ſee any of you, 


but fear that I muſt, wait till we meet in the other world, 
and may God grant that it may be with joy. My wife, 
ſiſter, the children, and Mr. * unite in ſincere re- 

en 88 all. 


„ 
78. Pray give ; my very y repeal love to Mr. Robinſon. 


From letters ess to the 3 and various 
individuals, by brother Carey, arran ged wrote | 


"= to their dates. 
Bay of Bengal, Oct. I 7. I 793- 


WE ſer fil on Thurſday morning, June 13, in the 
Kron Princeſſe Marie, Captain Chriſtmas, from Copenha- 
gen. The captain behaved. to us with the politeſt attention, 


and as we were a large. family, he allotted us the beſt place 
in the ſhip, by ordering his own great cabin to be parted 


into two. We had been but a little time on board before 
the women were taken with the ſea ſickneſs, then the chil. 


dren, and before night myſelf; but in a week we all reco- 
vered, and had a very pleaſant voyage to the Cape of Good 


Hope; only we were hindered a few days by calms when 
we were off cape Verd in Africa. We paſſed the tropic 


of Cancer on June 29, the 21ſt of the following month 
we croſſed the line, and Auguſt iſt we paſſed the tropic of 


Capricorn; on the 20th we ſaw the cape of Good Hope, 


but on Lord's-day night, 25th, we were alarmed by a terrible 
accident. There is a bank which extends into the fea from 


cape des Aquilas, the ſouthermoſt point of Africa, for about 
Zo leagues ſouth, upon which runs a ſtrong current, and 


which, when it meets the wind, raifes the ſea in a moſt tre- 


® The worthy vicar of St. Mary's, Leiceſter, 


22 


62 


mendous manner. We were in latitude 380 - ſouth, and 
thought ourſelyes ſecure. from that danger; but early in 
the morning, I was awakened by the violent motion of the 


ſhipy and found ftools, table, and every thing which was not 


ſecured, rolling about the cabin, whilſt the earthen and glaſs 
ware was cruſhed to pieces. Mr. Thomas called at the 
door to inform me that we had carried away our fore and 
main top maſts: I aroſe and went upon deck; the gloom 
of the night, (though providentially the moon ſhone) the 
| ſea, like mountains, beating the ſhip in all directions; the 
maſts, yards, ſails, and rigging, hanging over the ſides, with 
the men upon them, endeavouring to unrig them, and let 
them looſe, formed a tremendous ſcene. All on board uni- 
formly declared that they had never been in ſuch an alarm- 
ing ſituation before; and at one time we concluded that 

the veſſel was going to the bottom. Our ſhip is about 
130 feet long, and was mounted on a fea & at leaſt 50 or 
60 yards high, from which ſhe plunged head foremoſt with 


incredible velocity: I ſaw her going, I knew her weight 


was 600 tons, and concluded with others that ſhe could 
never recover it. I had but a moment to reflect, but felt 
compoſed, and reſigned to die. That I might not be toſſed 
overboard, I caught hold of what was next to me: the 
plunge was dreadful ;- her bowſprit was under water, and 
the gib-boom carried away ; but in a moment I ſaw her 
riſe again, mounted on anocher ſea, without having ſhipped 
one hogſhead of water. At laſt we cleared the wreck : 
in eleven days we refitted, and except one | ſquall, which 


carried away our new main-top-malt, have had nothing to 
alarm us ſince. 


The rains have ſupplied us with plenty of water, and 


we have loſt none of our company, except a black woman 


and child, who were very ill when they came on board; 


An immenſe wave. 


and the carpenter, who, er the very great exertions he 
was obliged to make on account of our misfortune off the 
cape, caught cold, which was ſucceeded by a pleuriſy, and 
followed by the ſcurvy, of which he died when we were 
en ſix W ſail of a | 


we have not FER entirely degitute of religious! oa 
portunities ſince we have been at ſea: family worſhip has 
been conſtantly attended to, both morning and evening 4 
and we have had preaching twice every Lord's day in our 
cabin, ſometimes to twelve perſons. Some ſeaſons have 
been pleaſant to ourſelves, but I fear of little or no ſervice 
to others. I have enjoyed many opportunities of private 
devotion 3 though after all the goodneſs and mercy ſhewn, 
I am ſtill the moſt unfruitful of all the plants in the vine- 
yard of God; yet I feel a growing ſatis faction in having 
undertaken this work, and a growing deſire for its ſucceſs. 
Sometimes I am much animated with the proſpea before 
me; but at others, a ſenſe of my own unworthineſs and 
unfitneſs ſo diſcourages me, that I fear I ſhall never be of 
any uſe in the world :—one conſideration, indeed, revives 
my hopes, and ſupports my mind in the darkeſt ſeaſfons— 
God hath ſaid, he will be with his miniſters unto the end. 


It has afforded me much pleaſure to recollect the times 
of public worſhip in the churches of England, and to refle& 
that now perhaps hundreds, if not thouſands, are praying - 
for me. You will alſo eafily believe that my friends have 
not been forgotten by me on theſe occaſions, 


I hope the ſociety will go on and increaſe, and that the 
multitudes of heathen in the world may hear the glorious 
words of truth. Africa is but a little way from England; 
Madagaſcar but a little further; South America, and all the 
numerous and large iſlands in the Indian and Chineſe ſeas 


MA 
1 


: 


' 
iN 


I hope will not be paſſed over. A large field opens on every 
| fide, and millions of periſhing beathen,* tormented in this 
world by means of idolatry, ſuperſtition, and ignorance, 
and ſubje& to eternal miſery in the next, are pleading ;— 


yes, all their miſeries plead (as ſoon as they are known) 
with every heart that loves the Redeemer, and with all the 
churches of the living God. O that many labourers might 


be'thruſt out into the vineyard of our Lord Jeſus Chriſt, 
and that the gentiles may come to 4 ene the 
3 0 : | 


l Calcutta, November 14. 


bi AFTER renin about, and-being driven back by 
currents for near a month, we arrived in Balaſore Roads 
on the 7th inſt. and on the 1oth, Mr. T. and I began our 
labours. We came in a ponſowah from the ſhip, and at 


lack water we lay to at a bazar, or market. Mr. Thomas 


ſoon began to diſcourſe with the Hindoos, and immediately 


the people all left their merchandiſe, and came under a 
havel to hear the goſpel, to which they liſtened with great 


attention for three hours, and appeared to be much pleaſed. 
One of them prepared us a dinner; a plantain leaf ſerved 
inſtead of diſhes and plates, and inſtead of knives and forks 
(according to the cuſtom of the natives) we uſed our fin- 
gers. When we left them, they intreated that we would 
build us a houſe, and come and live among them. 


On our arrival at Calcutta, we found poor Ram Boſhoo 


; waiting for us, but to our great grief he has been bowing 


According to Mr. Carey's calculation in his pamphlet, noticed in the 
Arft page of this work, four hundred and twenty millions of mankind, (i. e. 
above half the world) are yet in pagan darkneſs! If my foul is of ſuch un- 
ſpeakable value, that were 1 to exchange it for a world 1 ſhould be a loſer, 
(Matt. xvi. 26.) by what mode of calculation ſhall I aſcertain the aggregate 
amount of ſo immenſe a number of n ſpirits, each of which is as valu- 
able ax mine? 


„ 44 


„ 
down to Jets 20ain, When Mr. T. left India, he went 
from place to place, but, forſaken by the Hindoos, and neg- 

lected by the Europeans, he was ſeized with a flux and 
| fever. In this ſtate, he ſays, © I had nothing to ſupport me 
or my family ; a relation offered to ſave me from periſhing ' 
for want of neceſſaries, on condition of my bowing to the 
idol; I knew that the Roman Catholic * chriſtians wor- 
ſhipped idols; I thought they might be commanded to 
honour images in ſome part of the bible which J had not 


ſeen; I helitated, and complied : but 1 love * 
ſtill.“ | 


/ New. 25. Ram Boſhoo ſtill keeps cloſe to us; I "ITO had 
much converſation with him, and find him a very ſenfible 
well-informed man, and am often much pleaſed with his 
diſcourſe : I have yet great hopes of him; he is certainly 
a man from whom much good may be expected. , We hear 
that Parbotee + ſtands well, and that he and Mohun Chund 
are coming down to us. 5 


Prov idence bath favoured us ſo that we have ſold our 
inveſtments tolerably well ; but the neceſſary expences at- 
tendant on our firſt ſettling, will make us very ſhort for the 
firſt year; however, the work is God's—it has been fa- 
voured by God—we ſhall ſurmount all difficultics, and the 
glory will redound to God again, 


I feel ſomething of what Paul felt when he beheld Athens, 
and « his ſpirit was ſtirred within him.” I ſee one of the 
fineſt countries in the world, full of induſtrious inhabitants; 
yet three-fifths of it are an uncultivated jungle, abandoned 
to wild beaſts and ſerpents. If the goſpel flouriſhes here, 
| «the wilderneſs will in every reſpect become a fruitful field. 


There are a great number of Partegueſe Cathatics 1 pear the coaſt 
M See Mr, Thomas's account, p. 24. 


K 


A pious European who reſides here has much encou- 
raged us to make an effort in this city, and there ſeem to 
be many thouſands of Portugueſe ready to leaye the church 
of Rome, if any one could preach in Portugueſe to them. 
Perhaps we may try, though our great 2 is to preach 
to the Hindoos and Moors, 4 

I have had cel converſations with a brahmàn who 
ſpeaks Engliſh well, and being unable to defend himſelf ' 
- againſt the goſpel, he purpoſes to come, attended by a pun- 
dit, and try the utmoſt of their ſtrength. 


We are all well, the climate at this, which is the cold 
ſeaſon, is not unpleaſant, except through the great difference 
there is between the heat of day and night, which is often 
10 degrees; yet the heat is tolerable.— The more I know 
of Mr. Thomas the more I love him : we maintain the 
greateſt affection for each other. He has compleated his 
tranſlation of the book of Geneſis on our paſſage, at which 
he laboured indefatigably, ſo as I think to Hurt his health ; 
but through mercy is now recovered. We have now 

* Geneſis, Matthew, Mark, and James, in the language of 
the country, and ſhall ſoon have more I hope. 


It will be of very great ſervice to us, if the ſociety can 
ſend out a Polyglott Bible by the next conveyance. Ram 
Boſhoo is a good Perſian ſcholar, and it will certainly help 
us much. Alſo a copy of the goſpels in the Malay tongue 
would be of uſe. In return, I hope we ſhall ſend. you 
tidings which will FeJoIce your hearts, 


Bandell, Dec. 1 

WE have TAR near a month at Bandell, which is 

a Portugueſe ſettlement ; but are now-going further up = 
country, perhaps to Nuddea, Cutwa, . or Malda; ; 
preſent it is uncertain which, 


— 


67 

We have frequent opportunities of addrefling the Hin- 
doos, and their attention is aſtoniſhing. Laſt Lord's day 
we viſited them at a neighbouring village, called Saa-gunge, 
and Mr. Thomas preached to near 200 of them; they 
liſtened with great ſeriouſneſs, and ſeveral followed to make 
further enquiries about which is the way, to heaven, and 
what they ſhould do to walk therein? Eyery place preſents 
us with a pleaſing proſpect of ſucceſs; and ye are of one 
mind, and one ſoul. Pray for us; we daily remember 


you; and the proſperity oy the ry lies muy. near our 
hearts. 


* 


Mo. 26. I never in my life found _ ſatisfaction in 
any undertaking, than in this in which I am now engaged ; 
and though I have loſt much in point of ſocial intercourſe 
yet I find ſuch a ſweetneſs in reflecting on the cauſe in 
which I am embarked, as more than Ts Eds for any 4 
loſs I can fuſtain. 

The pleaſure of being pd to preach the goſpel I en- 
joyed greatly while in England: this enjoyment I am now 
deprived of through my not having yet obtained a . 

acquaintance with the language. 


| Notwithſtanding poor Moonſhi's * fall, I entertain a 
very high opinion of him as a converted perſon : he is a 


N 
| man after my heart. He is a faithful counſellor and a diſ- ES 
i cerning man, and very inquiſitive, ſenſible and intelligent. 
: If he wants any thing, it is zeal: I have been ſeriouſly 
talking with him to-day, and hope that in a little time I 
may ſee a church formed here for God, 
4 Parbotee I have not ſeen, but have heard a good account 


of him: Mr. Thomas has alſo received a letter from 
Mohun Chund. 


* Moonſhi, that is, interpreter, Ram Boſhoo. 


Te utmoſt harmony ſubſiſts Went me and Mr. Tho- 
mas. Several brahmans and pundits have been very preſſing 
with us to ſettle at Calcutta, and preach to them; accord- 
ingly Mr. T. reſides there, and I live at a houſe belonging 
to a black man, who generouſly offered it to me for ine, 8 
au Jam otherwiſe accommodated. | 5 


I am about reating a ſmall quantity of _ of a native, | 
ſome miles. eaſt of the city, ſo that we may have opportu- 
nities of. preaching the goſpel all over the moſt populous 
part of Bengal. The city of Calcutta is very large; L 
have nodoubt but there may be 200,000 black W there, 
beſides the Ins: 1-2 


Since I have been here my family have been very heavily 
afflicted with. the bloody flux, my wife and two eldeſt chil- 
dren have been very ill, and it is ſtill a doubt whether my 

eldeſt ſon will recover or not. Many might attribute this 
to the climate I believe it might ariſe from cold, but I am 
more and more convinced that all my times are in the hand 
of God, and that as all is under his direction, ſo all ſhall 
work together for good to them that love him. "Theſe 
things are afflictive, and ſeverely felt; but I bleſs God, I 
faint not : and when my ſoul can drink her fill at the word 
of God, 1 forget all. I had fully intended to devote my 
eldeſt ſon to the ſtudy of Shanſcrit, my ſecond to the Perſian, 
and my third Chineſe, I ſhall have opportunity for this, 
and if God ſhould hereafter bleſs them with his grace, this 
may fit them for a miſſion to any part of Perſia, India, or 
China. The difficulty of preaching to heathens, is, I pre- 
. ſume, much leſs than has been imagined. I think from what 
J have ſeen, there would be very little danger of. hurt in 
either heathen or mahomedan countries, and if this country 
is any ſpecimen at all, I think the encouragement to be 
very great. I hope the ſociety may be ſtrengthened and 


/ 5 69 


3 and that we may ſoon be able to encourage 
them by good accqunts * Hindoſtan. 

The plan laid down in my little piece I fill approve, 
and think it the beſt that can be followed. A miſſionary 
muſt be one of the companions and equals of the people to 
whom he is ſent, Many dangers and temptations will be 
in his way. One or two pieces of advice I may venture 
to give. The firſt is, to be exceedingly cautious left the 
voyage prove a great ſnare, On board an Eaſt Indiaman, _ 
eſpecially, it may be expected all the diſcourſe will be about 
high-life, and every circumſtance will tend to unfit the 
mind for the work, and prejudice the miſſionary againſt the 
people to whom he goes. Alſo in a country like this, ſet- 
tled by Europeans, the grandeur, the cuſtoms, the preju- 
dices of the ſettlers are exceedingly dangerous. They are 
very kind and hoſpitable ; but even to viſit them, if a man 
keeps no table of his own, would more than ten times ex- 
ceed the allowance of a miſſionary ; and their diſcourſe is 
chiefly about the vices of the natives; ſo that a miſſionary 
muſt ſee thouſands of people treating him with the greateſt _ 
kindneſs, whilſt he muſt be entirely different from them in 
his life, his appearance, and every thing, or elſe it is impoſ- 
ſible for him to ſtand ; their profuſe way of living being ſo 
oppoſite to his character, and ſo much above his ability. 


It will be very eſſential to miſſionaries, to be men of 
calmneſs and evenneſs of temper, and rather inclined to ſuf- 
fer hardſhips than covet the favours of men; and ſuch who 
will be indefatigably employed in the work ſet before them; 
an inconſtancy of mind being ſo highly injurious to it. 


I am very impatient to hear of the miniſters and 
churches in England, and all other parts within the com- 
paſs of your correſpondence : pray be particular when you 


* 
3 
: I 

: 

! 
7:38 
1 HSE 
ö 
1 : 
* 4 
1. 
i > 
x 
: 

1 
io 
j 

1 
of! 
£238 

33 

4 

n 

. 

113 

if 

: 

1 

£3 

x 

1 
i} 

. 

FL 
1 

14} 

-» 
11 

1 
7 1 

} {6 
1 
it 

: 


it 
by 
l 
þ . 
(+ bf 
il 
A 


| 70 
write. The advancement of the Redeemer's kingdom will 
be very pleaſing news to me, and I in return hope to ſend 
you ſome accounts, which may be cauſe of joy to you, and 
to all who love our Lord Jeſus Chriſt i in ſincerity. 


r A Jan. 3—5. 1794. 


-SINCE our landing. we have been in ſo unſettled a 
ſtate, and ſo much employed in ſeeking out a proper place 
for our reſidence, that I have not been able to make thoſe 
obſervations on the country or people, which are necellary 
to inform or entertain a correſpondent. 

The Cage” are 'very loquacious, — very deceitful, but 
not malicious: they are very numerous; I do not think I 
overrate them when J ſay, that the inhabitants of Hindoſtan 
amount to nearly one hundred millions. Superſtition is 
here triumphant in every place : but both Moors and Hin- 


doos are very induſtrious, and in many branches of ma- 
nufacture excellent workmen. The cultivated part of the 


country bears a great reſemblance to ſome of our Engliſh 


counties. The people are univerſally very attentive to the 


goſpel, and hear with that ſeriouſneſs which you will ſeldom * . 
ſee in an Engliſh auditory. We have had many opportu- 
nities of diſcourſing with them, and I have never yet ſeen 
them depart without giving evidence of very conſiderable 
impreſſions being made upon their minds. They have ap- 
peared to be convinced of the many contradictions which 
abound in their own religious writings z they have con- 
ſtantly deſired us to viſit them again; and when we told 
them that we came from England on purpoſe -to inſtruct 
them, they have given every demonſtration'of joy. 

A few days ago, I met with a very ſenſible brahman 
who ſpoke very good Engliſh, and entered into converſa- 
tion with him : be defended his ſhaſters for ſome time; at 


4 1 


EE. 
laſt ſaid I, Can you think that can come from God, wha 


e404 js all truth, which ſays, © If any perſon kill himſelf, he 
« ſhall never be forgiven :* and yet, if a woman kill herſelf 


cc by burning with her huſband, ſhe ſhall certainly obtain 
cc heaven by it?” He was confounded; and after I had 
told him of the way of ſalvation by Jeſus Chriſt, and preſ- 
ſed him to embrace it, he enquired my name, and told me 
that he would come to ſee me; at the ſame time preſſing 
me to come and viſit him again, Indeed theſe are a people 


prepared for the Lord.” 


| Moſt of the brabmins ſay, that they do not yet know the 


way of life, but that they attend their own religious Ceres 


monies in order that they may find it, and when they have 
found it, they will leave off thoſe practices. When we in- 
form them of the way of ſalvation as revealed in the goſpel, 
and tell them of the death of Chrift for ſinners, they. are 
ſurpriſed with the * of the 171 e 


But there are dificultics ! in our way. Their attachment 
to their cat, and the great inconveniences which they 
muſt ſuffer if they ſhould loſe it, are more formidable obſta- 
cles to us than you can ſuppoſe,.* Yet this is our encou- 


* This 3 has been made by hiſtorians frequently : La Croze ſays, 
«© Tout Indien, qui embraſſe le chriſtianiſme eſt abſolument banni de ſa tribu, : 
eſt abandonne aux inſultes de toute ſa nation.” 


Tome ii ii. p. 296. 


And ſo far do they renounce intercourſe with thoſe that have once for- 
feited their caft, that «© were a Hindeo of any other caſt to touch a chandala, 
© (or outcaſt) even by accident, he muſt waſh himſelf, and change his rai- ö 

ment. He would refrain from the productions of the earth, if he knew 
that they had been cultivated by a chandala. A chandala cannot enter a 
temple, or be preſent at any religious ceremony. He has no rank in ſoci- 
ety, and cannot ſerve in any public employment. Hence the puniſhment 
of expulſion, which is ſuppoſed in its conſequences to extend even to ano» 
ther life, becomes more terrible than that of death.“ 


Craufurd's Sketches of the Hindoos, vol. i. p. 124: Note. 


72 


nt, the power of God is ſufficient to accompliſh 
every thing which he has promiſed, and his promiſes are 


exceedingly great and precious. reſpecting the converſion 
of the heathens. 


The Moors, who are Mahometans, are more rigid and 
fierce than the Hindoos ; but a congregation of àn hundred 
or more may be collected almoſt any where, who will hear 
one part of the Koran compared and ſet at variance with 
another, without the reſentment which might be expected 
in ſuch a caſe. They all believe the imputation of Adam's 


guilt. to his poſterity, and maintain that every man is what 
God makes him t to Lon : 


The e acknowledge but one Supreme Being, but 
they make offerings to a variety of imaginary ſubordinate | 
beings, or rather to creatures; as the images of good men, 
animals, plants, &c. ' With theſe offerings they believe 
that God is highly pleaſed. But the minutiæ of their wor- 
ſhip are ſo various, that ſcarcely any, even of themſelves, 
can give a tolerable account of them. 


/ 


To the honour of the government I may obſerve, that 
the black people here are as free as the natives of England, 
and the courts of law ſeem to favour them full as. ach as 


the Europeans. 


Their national character is that of avarice, to this we 
may add a ſtrong propenſity to ly ing. The firſt of theſe 
ſeems to be the effect of the oppreſſive dealing which they 
have experienced under former governors. But the whole 
police has aſſumed a very different aſpect under the govern- 


ment of Lord Cornwallis, and 3 in favour of the 
| natives, : 


\ 


2 - 
* 


73 
ol Dale, Feb. 15. 179% 


I HAVE taken a few acres of land at Haſtnabad, 
near this place, which is about 40 miles eaſt of Calcutta, 
upon the river Fubana. An Engliſh gentleman, to whom 
we were all entirely unknown, has generouſly invited us 
all to ſtay in his houſe till we have erected one of our own. 
This I am now engaged in; the walls will be made of 
mats faſtened to wooden poſts, and the roof formed of - 
bamboos, and thatched, The neighbouring inhabitants yield 
me a little aſſiſtance in the work, and 4 or 500 families in- 
tend to come and reſide in our neighbourhood. This is 
occaſioned by Moonſhi's repreſenting” me to them in a fa- 
vourable light. Although the country is an excellent ſoil, 


it has been lately almoſt deſerted on account of the tygers, 


and other beaſts of prey, which infeſt the place; but theſe 
are all afraid of a gun, and will ſoon be expelled ; the peo- 
ple therefore are not afraid when an European is nigh. 
We ſhall have all the neceſſaries of life except bread, for. 
which rice muſt be a ſubſtitute, Wild hogs, deer, and 
fowls are to be procured by the gun, and muſt ſupply us 
with a conſiderable part of our food. I find an inconve- 
nience in having ſo much of my time neceſſarily taken up 


in procuring proviſions, and cultivating my little farm. 


But when my houſe is built, I ſhall have more leiſure than 
at preſent, and have daily opportunities of converſing with 
the natives, and purſuing the work of the miſſion. Here 
is certainly a large field for uſefulneſs; much larger than 
you can conceive, both among the Hindoos and Muſſulmen. 
They are very numerous, very inquiſitive, and very atten- 


tive to the goſpel, When I can ſo far know the language 


as to preach in it, I have no doubt of having a ſtated con- 
gregation, and I much hope to ſend you pleaſing accounts. 


I can ſo far converſe in the language, as to be underſtood 


in moſt things belonging to eating and drinking, buying 


chat thinks of God aright. 


with you; I feel that a diſtance of 10 or 15,000 miles 


ſixty people to hear the word; for here it is almoſt impoſ- 


74 


and ſelling, &c., and my ear is ſomewhat familiarized to 
the 'Bengalee ſounds. - It is a language of a very ſingular 
conſtruction, having no plural except to pronouns, and not 
a ſingle prepoſition in it: but the caſes of nouns and pro- 
nouns are almoſt endleſs, all the words anſwering to our 
prepoſitions being put after the word, and forming a new 
1 Except theſe ſingularities, I find it an eaſy language. 


9 feel myſelf. happy in my preſent EET TORY * 
though I never felt the loſs of ſocial religion ſo much as 
now, yet a conſciouſneſs of having given up all for God, 


is a ſupport ; and the work, with all its attendant 1 inconve- 
niences, is to me a rich reward, 


I think the ſociety would do well to keep their eye 


towards Africa or Aſia: theſe countries are not like the 


wilds of America, where long labour will ſcarcely colle& 


ſible to get out of the way of hundreds; and preachers are 
wanted a thouſand times more than people to preach to. 
Within India are the Mahratta country, and the northern 
parts to Caſbmire, without (as far as I can learn) one ſoul 


I hope you will ſend me an account of every thing im- 
portant in the churches, eſpecially Leiceſter. You. muſt 
not expect my journal till next year; I regularly keep one, 
which I intend then to tranſmit, | 


Feb. 23, Though I am ſurrounded by mercies, yet for 
this fortnight paſt my life has been rendered uſeleſs as to 
ſpiritual things; being for the preſent wholly occupied in 
temporal concerns; and the ſabbaths now are quite diſcon- 
folate. On one of theſe ſabbaths I am ſeeking communion 


cannot prevent the communion of ſaints. Though deprived 


As Aa £© +> Has a 


| - 5 


of a perſonal intercourſe with my Reg friends, 1 
have at leaſt one religious friend, and that is Ram Ram 
Boſhoo; he has indeed much timidity, but is a man of very 
good underſtanding, and well-informed ; he} * 27 a . A 
of Arien Probity. WEIS 9.46 | 


\ 


* 


The part where Lam \ building my 1 is mi Aa 
quarter of a mile of the impenetrable - foreſts, called Sun- 
derbunds ; and though quite deſerted before, through fear 
of the tygers, the people are now returning, encouraged + 
by my example, and we ſhall ſoon have 3 or 4000 in our 
vicinity. Theſe people, and all others in the neighbour- 
hood, are much pleaſed with my coming, and two or three 
days ago, a deputation of five or fix brahmàns, with a pre- 


ſent in their hands, came to thank me, or rather to ſay that 


they were glad I was coming to live among them ; for they 
have no ſuch word as © thank you,” nor any expreſſion of 
thankfulneſs in all their language ! St 


With reſpeQ to perſonal ſafety, I am juſt the ſame here 
as in England; my health was never better; the climate 
though hot, is tolerable; but attended as I am with diſſi- 
culties, I would not renounce my undertaking for all the 
world. I long to know how all the miniſters do; how the 
miſkon ſociety goes on; whether the churches flouriſh or 
not; and in ſhort every thing that occurs. Salute all the 
brethren in my. name, and let every miniſter and every 
chriſtian with whom you have the ſmalleſt connexion, know. 
that this conveys my chriſtian affection to them. 


W. CAREY. 


5 — ͤu—ĩ— — — 
— = — 1 * by — . — 2 4 — _ - a — — — - _ — 
cf — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — 7 - _ => 2 = = 3 
— — — — 4 F = — = 7 — — 2 r — - 9 = 2 
— _— - — — — „ — 2 = — > — —— — © — => — — 12 * 2 3 A - = = — 
2 * CRE — — —— — 2 — A . — Ca 23 — ** ==> ar nt ng 1 — — — A 2 
— — mere — — 7 — . 2 i > DO i 5 —— =—- — — — — — 
* - b — — 5 IRS: — — — <P — gg. > ow - : = _— — — = " = 2 nk — . ry 
- d — . — — — — —.— po — ho — — 
— - — — — — — — at 
= - — 
R » * * 


r — 


— ——— 
— — — — ee 
— — - y 


— — 


OY IO —ͤ — —- . —— ͤ— 


nm I Oe i rn ot 
C - — oo - 
& 
5 


' 


— 


Extrods fun * written by Mr. Thomas. 


Bengal Bay, October 26. 1703. 
WHEN we laſt wrote, we were waiting at Dorae 


for the arrival of the Kron Princeſſe Marie. On Thurſ- 
day morning, June 13, we put to ſea, in expectation of 


writing by the Triton frigate, which convoyed us out of 
the track of privateers, who might otherwiſe have detained 


us ; but when ſhe took leave, it blew ſo freſh that we could 


not hoiſt out a boat; ſo that a large packet of letters which 
were written by each of us, were not ſent. For my part, 
I expected a very uncomfortable and lonely paſſage, having 


agreed to meſs with the ſervants. We agreed for two ca- 


bins only, and two perſons to meſs at the captain's table; 
but He that gave Joſeph favour in the fight of Pharoah, had 
graciouſly provided for us and our little ones far beyond all 


expectation. We found the captain a well-bred Engliſh- 


man; he would not ſuffer me to abſent myſelf from his table, 


and received and entertained us all as though we had been 
people of conſequence, ſo that he has often ſhewed us kind- 


neſſes which we could no other way account lor, than by 
ben ee eee | 


Never did men ſee their native land with more joy than 
we lefe it; and this alſo is not of nature, but from above. 
Brother Carey, while very fea fick, and leaning over the 
ſhip to relieve his ſtomach from that very oppreſſive com- 
plaint, ſaid his mind was even then filled with conſolation 
in contemplating the wonderful goodneſs of God. We ex- 
pect to finiſh our voyage this week, and in hopes of a ſpeedy 
opportunity to ſend to Europe, I have begun writing in 
time. We have never put in at any place as we intended 


for at the Cape the wind was ſo fair to go on, that we pro- 
poſed to put in at the Mauritius; but as ſoon as we came 


_ r r * 12 "I 


py bis we OS WE 


Tow 1 


— 


near that iland, the ind proved 3 and we alte 


on to Bengal Bay. We have been three months en 


ſeeing a ſingle ſhip, which we think rather extraordi 


Poor Mrs. Carey has had many fears and troubles, fo chat 


ſhe was like Lot's wife till ſhe got paſt the Cape; but ever 
ſince, it ſeems ſo far to look back to P:ddingtom,* that ſhe 
turns her hopes and wiſhes to a fafe arrival in Bengal. She 
has had good health all the paſſage, and the little babe 
is grown a ſtout fellow: all the children are remarkably 


healthy, which we cannot but feel as a great kindneſs to- 


wards us; Mrs. Carey's ſiſter alſo ſhares a good health, 

and all bear the heat much better than I expected. Mr. 
Carey was at one time ill with a complaint which he was 
ſubje& to at home; but the Lord had mercy on him and on 


me; he is now as well I ſuppoſe as ever he was in his life, 


and has been for ſome months. We have preached twice - 
on each Lord's day, and have a tolerable choir of fingers : 

ſome perſons on board who came to hear us at firſt, have 
entirely left us, and others have heard us conſtantly; but 
to out great ſorrow we do not ſee the bleſſing of God on 
our labours. Some profane cuſtoms on the ſabbath day, 
and in common converſation, have been left off indeed, but 
the one thing needful is utterly lacking in them, and now 
we remember the words which the Lord ſpake to Ezekiel, 


| (chap. iii, 6.) “ Surely had 1 ſent thee to a people of 


« ſtrange ſpeech, and of an hard language, whoſe words 
thou canſt not underſtand, Surely had I ſent - thee to 
e them, they would have hearkened to thee, but the houſe 
« of Iſrael will not hearken.” We have nevertheleſs rea- 
ſon to be thankful for ſome ſweet and precious ſeaſons of 
grace on board, which we have reliſhed among ourſelves _ 
both on ſabbath days and in family worſhip, which we enjoy 
regularly twice a day. We have finiſhed a tranſlation of 


A village in Northamptonſnire, where Mrs. Carey did, and her relations 
do now reſide, 8 


r — _—_ 
— — 


— — 


— 
— 


—— 
—_ 


j 
\t 
"yy 
} 
P 
0 
1 


— - 


- 2 
— _ -—_ = 
_ — — — — PR 


— 
* = = - — — = 


„ 


1 
. 
78 > 


5 book of Geneſis, on the ee and brother 8 
helped me out in paſſages which I could not have ſo well 


under ſtood without him. So let the goldſmith help the 


carpenter, and the carpenter the 0 till the work 


of God be done. 


We * N ſome remarkable favours of Phari | 


dence on our paſſage, beſides thoſe already mentioned. 


Among others, about fix or eight weeks ago, we began to | 


fear a want of water, and to talk of an allowance, which 


we have never been limited by yet. Well, the. next day 


the Lord ſent down abundance of rain in two different 
ſhowers, and we filled many caſks. When we think on 
theſe things that are paſt, we truſt him afreſh for all that 
is to come, At preſent I rejoice, and know very little of 
ſorrow; I rejoice becauſe God is with us, the throne of 


grace is open, and the precious word of God is unſealed 
to us. I rejoice to be ſo near a flock of black ſheep, and 
I long to run and roll away the ſtone from the well's mouth 


that they may drink, I rejoice to be ſo near my family, 
and ſo near land ; but we have had our patience tried the 
laſt eight or nine days with a baffling current, that ſets us 


back faſter than we can get forward, but theſe two laſt days 


we gain on it. 


Jan. 8. 1794. We thought to write you ho before 
this, but our hearts have been burthened with cares and 


ſortows. It was very afflicting to hear of Ram Boſhoo's 


great perſecution and fall. Deſerted by Engliſhmen, and 
perſecuted by his own countrymen, he was nigh unto death. 


The natives gathered in bodies, and threw duft in the air 


as he paſſed along the ſtreets in Calcutta. At laſt one of 


his relations offered him an aſylum on condition of his 
bowing down to their idols. The practice of the Roman 


Catholics ſtrengthened this temptation, and he was prevailed 


on. He is now with Mr, Carey, from whom you will have. 


= 
a more circumſtantial account. He thinks wel of him, 
and I hope he at heart is convinced of his error. 


| Tam Ss my FIDEL Audies, b a pundit; 

brother Carey pays Moonſhi twenty rupees per month, 
which takes almoſt half his income. He has told you ſome 
of our viſits and converſations with the natives; he ad- 
mires them for their ſimplicity of manners among them- 
ſelves, and their harmleſs behaviour to others, and moſt of 
all, for the great attention they pay to the goſpel : but our 
beſt times are to come we hope. I ſhould be very happy 
to ſee a Bengal bible in any degree of forwardneſs before I 
die, and have been talking with a printer to-day, (in whoſe 
hands are the Bengal types which are uſed here) on the 
expence of ſuch a work. I ſhall probably be more parti- 
cular on this ſubject in my next letter. I ſhall go on tranſ- 
lating and learning Shanſcrit. Brother Carey comes on very 
faſt in the Bengalee. We love one another, Adieu. 


FT? 


The grand ſource of Indian literature, the parent of almoſt every 
dialect from the Perſian gulph to the China ſeas, is the Shanſerit; a language 
of the moſt venerable and unfathomable antiquity, which, although now ſhut 
up in the libraries of brahmans, and appropriated ſolely to the records of 
their religion, appears to have been current over moſt of the oriental world; 


and traces of its original extent may Kill be diſcovered in almoſt every diſ- 
tri of Aſia, | : 


Excluſive of the Shanſcrit, there are three different dialects applied 
(though not with equal currency) in the kingdom of Bengal: viz, the Per- 
fran, the Hindoſtanic, and the proper Bengaleſe. The Perfian entered into 
Bengal with the Mogul conquerors ; the Hindoſtanic or Indian language ap- 
pears to have been ſpoken for many ages through all proper Hindoſtan. It is 
{till applied to the purpoſes of commerce in Surat, Guzarat, and other places 
on the weſtern coaſt. It is indubitably derived from the Shanſcrit, The 
Bengaleſe is intimately related to the Shauſcrit alſo, both in expreſſions, con- 


& 


Guilfurough, Ait, 4. 1794. 
1 Committe to brethren Thomas and GO 


var DEAR. BRETHREN, 


YOUR welcome letters were received on the 29th | 


ult. Brother Fuller immediately called a Committee, 
which has this day met together at Guilſborough. Our 
ſpirits were refreſhed by the intelligence. After reading 
your letters to the Society, to the church at Leiceſter, and 
to brethren Pearce and Ryland, we ſang with ſacred joy 
the 428th hymn of Rippon's Appendix O'er the 
gloomy hills of darkneſs,” &c., and returned ſolemn thanks 


to the everlaſting God, whoſe mercy endureth for ever, 


for having preſerved you from the perils of the ſea, and 
hitherto made your way proſperous! In reading the ſhort 
account of your labours, we feel ſomething of that ſpirit 
ſpoken of in the n, Thine heart Hal fear, and be 


enlarged. 4 


We cordially thank you for your affiduity in learning 


the languages, in tranſlating, and in every labour of love in 
which you have engaged; under God, we cheerfully con- 
fide in your wiſdom, fidelity, and prudence, with relation to 
the ſeat of your labours, or the means to carry them into effet?. 


ſtruction, and character. It is the ſole channel of perfonal and epiſtolary 
communication among the Hindoos of every occupation and tribe. All their 
buſineſs is tranſacted, and all their accounts are kept'in it ; and as their ſyſ- 
tem of education is in general very confined, there are few among them who 
can write or- read any other idiom. The uneducated, or eight parts in ten 


of the whole nation, are neceffarily confined to the uſage of their mother 


tongue, : 
Preface to Halhed's Grammar of the Bengal Language. 


Q mA 


2 
[ 
t 
t 
e 


| between you; and of the high opinion and eſteem an 
each entertains for the other: this ſpirit we hope will be 


9 * 
9 


rr wt be ble Pier however, witch was is 48 wy 1850 


importance thun the reſt, it is Nuddea. But you mutt fol- | 
to where the Lord Openg door for you, 155 


Tt Xcjcicts its Fein to hear of the good naked 


preſerved and cultivated. Should any little difference ever 
atiſe, we hope you will each ſacrifice much, rather than 
injure the common cauſe. Brethren, ſhould either of you 
be tempted to any thing that would cauſe the work to 
ceaſe, (for you are vet in the body) conſider the anſwer of 
Nehemiah, 7 am doing a GRO TON. and cannot come down 
to you. 


It afforded pain amid our pleaſure to hear of poor 
R. R. Boſhoo's fall; but do not give him up: his meeting 
you, and cleaving to you, does not indicate an apoſtate 
heart, It was more like the ſpirit of a Peter than of A 
Judas. Your buſineſs is to bind up 2 which is broken, and 
10 bring again that which was driven away. Such was the 
conduct of the chief ſhepherd of the * and aps we 


We wiſh to ſend this off, if poſſible, with the Polygloe 
Bible, (price ſeven guineas) the Malayan Teſtament, 
Lowth's Ifaiah, &c, 


We depend brethren upon your freedom, to make known 
your wants; as much as upon your economical application 
of what is communicated, Do not be reſerved; if you 
cannot tell your own wants, tell of each others. 


Remember us afo@tionately to your families, to R. R. 
* Parbotee, Mohun Chund, and all who love our 
M 


Lord Jeſus Chriſt in N Dearly * n 
farewell; be of good courage; we alſo will be with you 
by our prayers and exertions, and God, your own God, 
will bleſs you! Farewell, grace be with you. Let us 
often hear from you, And oh! that we may hear good 
Pp; of great joy. Once more, farewell! 


Signed this 4th day of Auguſt, 1 794. 
ANDRE. F W. &c. &e, e. 


AN EVANGELIGAH HYMN, 


Composed in the Bengalee Language 


BY RAM RAM. BOSHOO, A HINDOO MOONSET. 
ho besides can recover us, : 
O who besides can recover us, 


From the everlasting darkness of sin, 
Except the Lord Jesus Cbrist? 


1. Lo! that Lord is the Son of God:” 4 5 
The intermediate of a sinner's Aalvuliemt : 
Whosoever adores him, | 
Will get over his eternal 8 


O who besides can recover us, &e. 


CHORUS. 


2. In all this world there is none flee from sin, 
Except the Saviour of the world, 
And his name is Jesus. 


O who besides can recover us, &c.. 


3. That Lord was born Lo he world 
To redeem sinſul men: | 
Whosoever has faith to adore him, 
That's the man that will get ſree. 


O who besides can recover us, &c. 


Ec] 


„ With and without form, an a incarnation, 
That's the Lord of the world: ; | 

Without faith in him, the road to heaven : 
Is inaccessible.. | 


O who besides can recover jus, &c. 


3. These words of his mouth, hear O men, 
| For his sayings are very true; 
© Whoso is thirsty, let him come to ME, 
A I will give him the living water.“ 


O who besides can recover 1 Wh &e. : 


9 Therefore adore, O my soul, 8 8 
b Having known him rubstantial 
And besides himself | 


There is no other Saviour. 1 
O who besides can recover us, 
O whdb besides can recover us, 


From the everlasting darkness of sin, 
Except thi Lord. Jesus — 4 


IHE HINDOO's HYMN, 
Imitated in ena, for the we vo ago e. 


I. Wuo besides can man recover, 
O who else restore to light! _. 4 
Who but Christ that heav* by lover, 1 
Save from everlasting nien? 
Who besides him, | 
Save from sin's eternal night? ' 


2. Lo! that Lord the Son of God i is, 
Through him saving blessings flow; 
And the sinner that adores him, 
Will get o'er eternal woe. 
Who besides him, 
Can redeem from endlest wos? 


2 


. aps th In dend, N 


There is none evem hy from r. 
a e who sdvwes the w 


ex eden” 
s is the Saviour's Hy 


hs 6 2 the | mighty Saviour s name. 6 f 


4. That dear Lord froth benwn OY 
| Rebels to redtem like me: 
: Whoso er bath faita t'adbre bir, 
8 hat's the man that can i free, 
- Who but Jesus, 
Can set captive s sinners les? 


| 5. He an holy incarnation,” 
With and without form, we 'ow * 


As the universal sov'reign— | 

As the Way to heavn alone: 
Jesus, Jesus, K 
Is the way to hear'n alone. 


6. Hear, O sons of men, his sayings, 
For his words are very true: 
© Come to me, whoso is thirsty; 
„ Living streams TI give to * 
Who besides him, 
living dtreains car give to you? © 


7. Having Cond the friend substantial, 
Therefore, O my soul, adore, 
Saviours !—there are none beside him, 
Vain twill be to seek for more. 


None but Jesus, ö 
Can a ruin d soul restore. 


* 


: FE PERIODICAL | 
2 0 C 0 U N T IJ 


5 RELATIVE To THE. 


Bonis Mixionay Society. 


"No. II. 


wy 


LETTERS from the MISSIONARIES. 


Mr. THOMAS tothe SOCIETY. 
Dran BazruneN, | | Buddaul, March 10. 1794 


MIS place is about sixty miles euntward of Malda. 

Jam come hither on a journey wirh Mr. U. 's fa- 
mily. Mr. Carey and his family are about three hundred 
miles off, to the east of Calcutta, and my own are on a 
Journey from Calcutta to Malda, where Mr. Carey and 
all of us will meet, we hope, i in a short time, We have 

been greatly distressed with difficulties; but I trust the 
Lord is making room for us. Having just entered my 
new house at Calcutta, where I had intended to do some- 
thing in my own way of business, I received a letter 


Vor, I. 3 N 


% 


| 
i 


l es J. 


from Mr. U., which has given a wonderful turn, in 
its issue, to all our affairs, especially with respect to the 
mission. The letter was in answer to a condoling epistle 
I had sent to him on the sickness of his mother; occa- 


sioned by the very affecting loss of a son, who was drown- 


ed, with his wife, by the oversetting of their boat, as 
they were erossing Calcutta river. In this letter I had 
said, that on hearing she was sick, I had nearly set off to 
Malda ; but business prevented. Mr. U. replied with 

a very pressing and affectionate invitation, with proposals 
to accomodate me at bi expence, Xe. 


Accordingly I went to see him: our first interview 
was very affecting: partly from a tender remembrance of 
former friendship, and partly from the sad occasion of the 
present meeting, we were each of us overcome. Many 
tears fell, and some time elapsed before a word was uttered 


"on either side. We went and mingled our tears with 


those of his dear mother, who lay smarting under the af- 
flicting hand of God, in body and mind : carrying about 
with her deep marks of heart-breaking grief. The same 
morning I directed her to get a word from Christ, by 
preaching from Cant. viii. 13. I fatigued her body with 
long walks, hoping thereby to render her mind less capa- 
ble of grief: and the Lord blessed abundantly Ie ny 
the medicines and the meeting. 


-4 
* 


T intended no other than to return to Calcutta; but 
during my visit at Malda, Mr. U. proposed that I 
should superintend one of his manufactories ; and I have 
acceded to his proposal. It appears to me a great open- 
ing for useſulness; us it affords large opportunity of com- 
municating knowlege by schools and stated instruction. 
Here [ shall at length have perhaps five hundred of the 
natives in employ ; and from November till June entirely 


[> 895 ]:: : 


at leisure to pursue my usual labours. | Mr. hes." #2 


offered another of the manufactories ; but I have received 


ho answer from him yet. If he accepts it, as I think he 
will, we shall be within twenty. miles of each other. I 


cousider this employment for us and our people as every 


way becoming and suitable; and [ hope it will afford the 
rooiely pleasure d ee, r e Io O41 


2 


When our We will commence, or py it a be, 


1 know not yet. We wish to know; for our money is 


all gone: and I bave borrowed for both, and that is gone 
also. Poor brother Carey was sadly grieved in behalf of 
Ram Ram Boshoo, who had a debt to discharge, and 

his wages was due. He was beset for the debt, and we 
were two months before we could spare him relief. 

Haviog never maintained a family, nor lived at my own 
ex pence at Calcutta, I little thought how much money it 


would require to keep a family in the line and proportion 


as Mr. Carey had lived in England. We $bould. have | 
wrote soon, and entreated the Society to spare us more; : 
but now I hope we shall be very soon able to do with less, 


perhaps with nothing from, but adding uy to the 
strength of their hands. 


I have never seen Parbotee yet, nor Mohun Chund ; 
the former is four hundred miles up the country. He is 
expected down; and when he and Mohun Chund, and 
and Boshoo are all together, your Letter“ is to be solemnly 
read and explained, and delivered to them. Let it not 
grieve you that it has been so long delayed. We have 
been much favoured and helped of God, and happy and 
comfortable with each other. O that I could tell you 
how useful, and how successful we had been in bringing 


5 * See No. I. page 41—45, 
5 N2 


Ft ſ 88 1 
the Hindoos to Christ! I mourn to find my time and 
thoughts so dissipated with cares, and so unhinged for this 


great work: but my * I IE for dere 
ous times to come. 


* 


1 Malda, July 30, 1794. 
en at my beart that I missed the opportunity of 


sending the above in time, I now add a few more hints: 
Brother Carey and his family are come up hither. He 
has accepted the management of one of Mr. U.'s manu- 
factories ; and we are building works, and settling our 
houses and families, eighteen miles from each other, 


On: your receiving this, there will, I trust, be no 
further occasion for your sending out money or goods for 
us. We are nevertheless as closely connected and related 
to you as ever; and shall always be glad to testify our 
love and respect for that society which is so much our 
joy and hope. Brethren, pray for us! I beg my highest 
respects and love to all the dear ministers and people of 
God, who shall mention our names. I am dear brethren, 


Your's affectionately, 
JOHN THOMAS. 
Mr. CAREY to the SOCIETY. 


Ds an BRETHREN, | Mudnabatty, August 5, 1794, 


Taroucn the mercy, of God, I. am still in the 
land of the living, and have been led by diyine provi- 
dence through a labyrinth of circumstances, till now, in 
a very unexpected manner; Lam settled in this place, 


" 


FW] | 
and surrounded with the most nn circumstances, and 
encouraging pA 


I was preparing myself a house at Dehots, and had 
taken land to cultivate for the Support of my family: Mr. 
Thomas had likewise engaged in his own profession at 
Calcutta.; on which account we are separated about forty 
miles. But Mrs. U. at Malda being very ill through 


grief, on account of the death of her son and his wife, who 


were both drowned in crossing the Calcutta river in the 

night, Mr. Thomas was sent for to attend her. Mr. 
U., of Malda, had just begun to erect two manufac- 
tories at some distance north of Malda, but without know- 
ing of any persons to superintend them. He therefore 
engaged Mr. Thomas to take the oversight of one, and 
wrote to me to. superintend the other: This appears to 
me such a remarkable appearance in providence ; so unex- 
pected, unsought for, furnishing such ample supplies for 
our wants, and at the same time opening so large a field 
for usefulness ; putting us each in a state of direct, or indi- 
rect influence over more than a thousand people; that I 
could not hesitate a moment in concluding it to be the 


hand of God. I therefore left my unfinished hose, and 


farm, and set out to _—_— a Journey of about 250 miles. 


My place is about thirty miles * of Malda; and 
Mr. Thomas's about sixteen or seventeen further than 
mine. We are situated between the rivers Tanguan and 
Purnabobba ; in the district of Dinagepore, and within 
one hundred nd twenty miles of Tibet. The name of my 
place is Mudnabalty; that of Mr: Thomas, Moy pauldiggy. 
Here then is the principal seat of the Mission: and if any 


lose cast ſor the gospel, we have goo and profitable em- 
ploy ment for them. 


— — 


2 


p ̃ -u . ME Pre rn Re TEIN 


TT 87 


I vow inform you, brethren, that I can subsist with- 


out any further aassistance from you. At the same time I 
sincerely thank you for the exertions you have made, and 


hope that what was intended to supply my wants, may 
be appropriated to some other mission. It will be my glory 
and joy nevertheless, to stand in the same near relation 
to you, and to maintain the same correspondence with 
you, as if I needed your continued supplies. 1 beg I may 


have the pleasure of seeing the new publications that come 
out in our connections; and the books that I wrote for 

before; viz. a Polyglot Bible, an Arabie Testament, 
VI Gospel, ang Botanical I. 


A large door sbs and I bave great hopes. I 
cannot speak the language so well as to converse much, 
but begin alittle. Boshoo is not yet baptized. Mobun 
Chund is either a christian, or a great impostor. Par- 


botee I have not yet seen. He is at a great distance 


from us. We have a little congregation at Mr. U.'s 
house, who live in the compass of eighty or one hundred 


miles; consequently are all together but seldom. 


The obstacles in the way of the gospel are very 
great; and if it were not that God is almighty, and true, 
they would be insurmountable. The cast is such a supersti- 
tion that no European can conceive, and more tenaciously 
regarded than life. It was, I think, originally politica] : 


but is now interwoven with every circumstance of their 


lives; and their deceit and avarice are unparalelled. But 
the wa was begun of God; and I doubt not but he will 
carry it on. | | . 


My mae I intend to send by the ships of the season; 
in which, though the greatest part is personal, relaung 


*% 


[88] 


to myself, yet some hints will be found relative to what L 


have observed among the Hindoos.* 


. i Ke a: 8 | | 3 
Remember me to all the ministers and christians of 
my accquaintance. 
I am, with warm affection your's 


WILLIAM CAREY. 
Mr. CAREY to Mr. S. 


Mr Dran BuoTnER, I | ©Maduabatty, 1 9. wes 


In addition to whit I bave said to the Society re- 
speeling my situation, I observe a more eligible one could 


not have been chosen. Mr. Thomas and I are only six- 


teen miles distant; and our respective factories will fur- 
nish support for thousands; so that there will be a com- 
fortable and honourable alem for 28 who lose cast for 
the gospel. 3 | 


I have not yet seen Parbotee. Boshoo is. with 
me, and I hope is a real christian; but he wants zeal and 


| fortitude. . He has not yet lost cast. Mohun Chund 


professes more zeal. It is very difficult to get these 
people together. Travelling is very expensive, and they 
are all poor, We are now just upon the point of forming 


* From this hint, the Committee were in expectation of being in 
possession of the journal by this time; and to have made use of it in 
composing the present number. It was ou this ground that an Adver- 
tizement of this purpose appeared on the blue Covers of No, 1. of the 
P:RIoDiCAL Accounts. The Journal however is not arrived. 


* 4 


-Y 


1 


== : =_ 
_ C , OE C 9 —— 
„PPP ˙» or ears, 3 — 


„ 
ourselves into a church: our beginning will be pmall ; 
but Thope the end will by e properous. 


ac 


As for the dangers and difficulties of we „ 


we think very little about them. Some diseases are com- 


mon here; as fluxes, which generally arise from the 
coldness of the night air after the heat of the day; with 
this disorder my wife, and eldest son, have been afflicted 


for eight months. My wife is now nearly well; but my 


son very ill. | Fevers, or rather agues, are common. 


But the country agrees better with my health than Eng- 
land. I never was better in my life. 


We have: no fear of beasts, though there are many 
buffaloes, hogs, and tygers, in our neighbourhood. — 
Tygers seldom attack men, but make a dreadful devasta- 
tion among the cattle: except in the forest of SunderBunds 
where thereare nocattle, there they attack men. Serpents 
are numerous, and some so mortal that the patient never 
Survives above two hours, and often dies in five minutes; 
but they give us little concern. Crocodiles no man re- 
gards. I have one in a pond, about ten yards from my 
door; and yet sleep with the door open every night. 


* 


Major Rennel's maps of India, will give you a very 


just idea of the geography of this country; and Sonnerat's 


Voyage will furnish you with the best epitome of Hindoo 
mythology. 


The language is very copious, and 1 think beautiful. 


I begin to converse in it a little; but my third son, about 


five years old; speaks it Auently. Indeed there are two 


distinct languages spoken all over the country; the Ben- 


galee, spoken by the Brammhans, and higher hindoos; and 


Go” — . a — wu 


2 SS 


ut 


1 S 


the Hindostanic, spoken by the Mussulmans, ad lower 
Hindoos. This last is a mixture of Bengalee and Persian. 


At present being incapable of preaching, I can say 
nothing of success; but my heart is engaged in the work, 
and | know that God can convert the most obstinate and 
superstitious; and he has promised io do it. Here is the 


foundation of my hope, and in this confidence 1 engage 
in the work. Adieu. 


Yoo Acttbnatel y. 


REMARKS. 


WILLIAM CAREY, 


4 — eee 


Tu undertaking of our brethren, Thomas and 
Carey, in the superintendency of a manufactory, has 
been an occasion of many thoughts and fears concerning 
them. No one called in question the purity of their in- 
tentions ; but doubts and apprehensions existed in several 
who are fridady. to the undertaking, on the propriety of 


the measure, its tendency to subserve the N and 
even its consisteney with it. 


To the attention of such friends we wth the following 


First: Mr. Carey, in his Enquiry into the obfigatione 
of Christians to use means for the conversion of Heathens, 
which was printed with the approbation of most of the pre- 
sent members of the committee, disapproved of mission- 


aries being always supported by their friends in Europe. 
His object was, that if possible, © the first expence might 
be the whole ;” or at most, that they should be supported 
for a few years, till they could provide for themselves; 
and then, that the monies appropriated to their relief, 


Vor, 


1 


4. 


9 


OY 


1 94 1 


should be applied to another mission. —See page 73. Nor 
was it merely Mr. Carey's plan that the missionaries should 
endeavour to support themselves; but the society, in a sort, 
 covenanted with him and Mr. Thomas so to do. At the 
meeting on January 10. 1793, held at Kettering, when it 
was agreed for brethren Thomas and Carey io go-to the 
East Indies, there was much con versation about the means 
by which: missionaries might in a little time be able to 
support themselves. Mr. Carey particularly enquired of 
Mr. Thomas about taking land, and cultivating it; but 
Mr. Thomas answered, that this in Bengal was not the 
most eligible employment. An employment of some kind, 
however, was on all hands agreed to be necessary; as, un- 
less we should confine our attenlion to this single mission, 
we did not conceive our finances would be adequate to a 
continued establishment. In persuance of this plan; Mr. 
- Carey as soon as opportunity offered, took land at De- 
hotta; and in his letter to the Society, dated Oct. 17 
1793 expresses his hope that we should go on aud encrease 
our labours. Per. Acc. No. i. p. 63, 64. + 


Secondly : The vast distance of Bengal from England, 
and the consequent impossibility of the measures of the 
missionaries being under our direction, render it neces- 
sary that much, and indeed almost every thing, should be 
confided to their discretion. Whether, in case it had been 
put to us, we should have approved of the oversight ofa 
manuſactory, for acertain part of the year, as the most V 
gible employment for a missionary, we cannot tell ; 
should doubtless have felt various objections, and yo 
stated them; but after all, not being upon the spot, not 
acquainted with the circumstances of the case, we should 
probably have referred it to their own judgment, confiding 
in their integrity and prudence to do that which they 
thought, all things considered, best adapted to answer the 


( 93 | 


enilo'df: the mission; and have only added our friendly 
cautions Same the 8nares of such a situation. e 3 | 
Thirdly : We could not his onalſectedwith the n ffi- 
calties to which they were exposed, owing to the distance 
of their situation, and consequently the/length of time ere 
our supplies could reach them. It appears from their last 
letters, that though we sent off fresh supplies in less than 
a year after their departure, yet, owing to the detention 
of the ships in harbour, they- had not received them till 
upwards of sixteen months after their arrival: so that they 
must have been reduced to great extremilies, had they not 
engaged in something for og Support of themselves. 5 


Fourthly : The mags of their situation b 
that, I their minds are kept Piritual, they must be turned 
tothe promotion of the cause in which they are embarked. 
It certainly affords them an opporlunity of providing, as. 
they express it, an asylum for those who may lose cast for 
the-gospel ; as well as of erecting schools, &c., the ex- 
pences of which it might have been difficult to have de- 


| frayed by benevolences from Englaud.. 


In conformity with these ideas, was the opinion of 
an aged and respeetable minister of the established church 

— As to the snares of business, (said he, in a letter to 
one of che committee) it seems to depend chiefly on the 
state of the heart: if that be fired with a zeal for God, 
* and love to souls, such attention to business as circum- 
stances require, will not hurt it. It is one of the first 
concerns of the Moravian missionaries (who [ think, 
c are excellent patterns for others) to find business or work 
wherever they go; partly that they may maintain them- 
„ selves, and purtly to set an example of industry to! the 
* heathen. But then, they never my up : they live upon 

5 0 2 


44 


66 


| [96 |] 
* a common stock, and impart what they can spare to the 
** necessitous. If your brethren can act won this plan, 
* business will not hurt them.” 
Fiſthly: We could not but observe whe time, that 
the missionaries did not write like persons who suspect 
their own actions but as men conscious of the purest inten- 
tions, and expecting the approbation of their brethren : 
nordid we overlook thedisinterestedness of their giving up 
their salaries to another mission, as soon as they had any 
prospect of supporting themselves: and their last Letters, 
which appear at the end of this number, afford ground 
of pleasing hope that what they save in business will be 
employed in promoting the cause in which they have 
engaged. 
_ Sixthly : After all, the Committee considering the 
ſrailty of human nature, was not unapprehensive of dan- 
ger, and therefore addressed a Letter to the Missionaries, 
full of serious aud affectionate caulion ; intreating them to 
be walchful, and committing them to H1M in whose name 
and cause _y have embarked. 
* os. 
| - PROCEEDINGS OF THE COMMITTE 
Kelatire to the foregoing in: 'elligence, and the establish- 
ment of a new mission to Africa. | 


Al a committee meeting held at Arnsby, in Leices- 
| tershire, April 7. 1795, at which were present, brethren 


Hogg, Hopper, Bruin, 

Pearce, Care, 5 
Sutchf, Fates, Hobson, 
un Blundel, Fuller, 


and everal others of the Society; 
Aſter reading the foregoing letters, and having col- 
lected the sentiments of the wisest and best friends to the 
undertaking on their contents, 1t was unanimously re- 


Solved ;— + 


Sh- 


eOl- 
the 


I ] 


1. Though upon the whole, we cannot ebener | 
the conduct of our brethren in their late engagement; vet, 
considering the ailty of human nature in the best of men, 
that a letter of serious and affectionate ae be address. 
ed to e | | A Deg 

Il. Though at present our brethren have no occasion 
for supplies from us; yet should any vicissitudes in ſuture 
render renewed assistance necessary, it * BY ene 
fully communicated. | 


III. Enquiries having been made, whether there be 
any further openings in the heathen world, encouraging 


to attempt the spreading of the Kingdom of Christ in it, 


it appears io us, from the Sierra Leone Reports, lately 
published, that such favourable appearances do exist in 


Africa, as deserve our immediate attention. 


IV. The secretary informed the committee, that hav- 


ing received letters from Mr, Jacob Grigg (a student at 


the Baptist academy, at Bristol } expressing his earnest de- 
sire lo be employed as a missionary under the patronage of 
ihis society, he had made enquiries of Mr. Grigg's tutors, 
respecting his character and qualifications for such an un- 
dertaking, to which very satisfactory answers had been 
returned. Mr Grigg also, being present at this meeting, 
and personally offering his services for the work of the 
Lord, amongst the heathen, it was resolved, that provided 
it meet the approbation of the Bristol Edncation Society, 
his proposals be accepted. 


V. That the practice of our blessed Lord, in sending 
out his disciples to and two, being highly worthy of our 


1 56 


imitation, ah will-use our utmost OILED to e pronde 
him with a eutable;compavion.):: whe t > 4:14 

en: Men eim 

* Atthis meeting, Mr. Hogg, 3 way experience, ., that 
his situation was unsuitable to the office of treasurer, made 
a motion to resign. The committee, impressed with the 
propriety of Mr. Hogg's objections, and at the same time 
sensible of the diligence and honour with which he had 
conducted his trust, voted him their thanks for his past 
services, accepted his resignation, and chose Mr. Thomas 
King of man to eucceed him. 


981 4 BY: 


7 = 1 V ? "'*% © - 4 4 
! | 1*3 73 SHEET — — E 
ut * — 1 1 : ” + 4 

| WE; 


Tax next meeting of the committee was held at 
Kettering, after a public association of the ministers and 
churches of the Baptist denomination in these parts, 
June 11. 1795, present, nearly all the members of the 
committee, and a great number ofthe Society. The seere- 
tary reported, that since the last committee meeting, at 
_Arnsby, a young minister (Mr. Row Av) lately at the 
Bristol academy, but now residing at Burton-upon-Trent, 
has made a voluntary offer to accompany brother Grigg 
to Africa. Two letters also, addressed from him to Mr. 
Grigg, describing his exercises of mind, and th 
which induced him to make such an offer, were. 
rend. Mr. Rod way also being present part of the time, 
united with us in prayer, and repeated his offer: and full 
enquiry having been made into his character and qualifi- 
cations, it was unanimous]y recolved — 


— wḿ ̃ ⁰à e ˙ pom vfOD 5 at e 
* 
* 


W 
wn 
ii 
[1994 HN 
"5 
ws 
IN 
d ” 
Uo 54 
N 
. 
Dee 
= 
4) i 
N 
mr. 
„„ 
i _ 
id oh F 
r_ 
x 
+1 ” 
1 Ar 
Hh 
W 
6 
N. N. 
bb : 
4-144. % 
r "1 
1 1 * 
"A 4 
\ 11 6 
M4. 
” 
- * 
1 
i 
T4451 
NI 
j 
= 
x "ih 
ad 5 "1 
. 
1 } 
in 
10) $108 
1 
' 
4 \ 
4 
8 17 4% 
NN 
711! © 
1 5 
| \ 
i 
19:8 
7 1 
i 
% 
1 
. aſl! 
Funn 
1 REES 
1627 
1314 
OT: 
A 
1 7 
1 { 
n > 38! 
N 
L * l 
by * 
N 1111 
1 
I 
| t 
= 
Fir 
4 £9 
7 
SS. 
$ 
„ H 
- 7 
12 
# 
_ 
» 
7 9 
1 
. 
1 
ik 
#1 
MJ 
* 
of 
* 


* 
* 
j 1198 
1 
[ 
7 * 
14 
4 
it 4 
7 
A 
if 
| 
we 4 
' 19 
N 8 
1 
12 
A 1h 
it 
1 1&4 
4 d 
} " as 
" . 
Al 7 
5 
WL 1 
is WET. 
4 ah = 
8 F 7 
i poi x 
331 (882 
ai 
ei 
M | 
11 14 4 
(Rt: 197; F 
7 1 of 
+ 


- - 
* — — — — 
2 gp > = 
— — — 
— — = — 2 
_ 2 _ 
2 8 . 
I ATR 
— — 
— . — 
5 — 4 


TJ. That Mr. Rodway's offer be accepted ; ; and that 
as soon as circumstance will permit, preparations be made 


for his and Mr, Grigs s departure. 


[wt 


II. That a general meeting of the sociely be held at 
Birmingham, previous to the missionaries embarkingſon 
Africa; the time of te PEP be fixed, as $000 as eir⸗ 
cumstances will admit. 


* ? * ba 4 : Ly 
- 1 "WE — 6. : 4 TOW 


11 .360 
III. That it 5 desen nde to * ehypohes: hikes | 
to have an annual collection for the mission; or if that 
were unsuitable, that every minister should make a point 
of collecting the subseriptions. in his own congregation, 


and keep a debtor and creditor . with * treasurer 
of the PEIRLY | | 


3 100 


Proceedings at the general meeting of the Society at Bir- 


mingham, on Sep. 16. 1795, held for the solemn setting a- 
part of Brethren Gr16G and Rodway to the e of 
the Lord . the AFRICANS. | 


Present, Brethren RyLanD, Has: Pearce, BLuN- 
ver, Morets, HossoN, Dexr, KING, MixIs, 
SreADMAN, Cave, EDbuo nps, FuLLER, and, many 
other members of the society. 


Tun object of this meeting so far as related to 
the setting apart of our brethren Grigg and Rodway, 
was supposed to bear a near resemblance to the sending 
out of Barnabas and Saul, on a mission amongstthe heathen 
by the church at Antioch. The proceedings of that church 
therefore, as recorded in Acts xiii. 1—3, were considered 
as a model worthy of our imitation : When they had fasted 
«nd prayed,and laid their hands on them ,they sent them _ 


Ne 100 92 


As our . were obliged to take coach for Lim 
; Fa at chree in the'uſternoon, not knowing; but that the 
chip would sail the next day; we were obliged to finish the 
work of the day, so far as it related to them, by half past 
one. It was agreed therefore, to meet at six in the morn- 
ing for prayer, and at intervals to transact such business 
as nenen to be yeutſed before their departure. 


e . engaged in prayer; between which 
exercises the Secretary reported the steps he had taken in 
providing a passage for the missionaries, and the friendly 
treatment he had received ſrom several gentlemen in- 
terested in the concerns of Sierra Leone. 


The expences of the missionaries, already incurred, 
were then settled; and they were allowed as follows ;— 


* . \ 


| L. . d. 
For time and RY in taking leave of their 
friends —— - -= - 16 16 0 
J ourney of Mr. Grigg from Bristol 10 Birming- 1 
ham - - „ 


Ditto of Mr. Rod way from Dunkirk i in Glou- 
cestershire to Birmingham '-= - - - - 1 0 0 
Ditto of both from Birmingham to London, by 
the mail) 6 16 6 
Eachof which sums was paid by the Treasurer. 


Aſter this, a letter was read and approved, which 
had already been sent by the secretary, to the Honourable 
the Directors of the Sierra Leone Company, informing 
them of our intention of sending out two young ministers 
to some one of the countries in africa, bordering Ys their 


The full fare from Shrewsbury to London was obliged to be paid in or- 
der to secure their . ö 


r- 


E204 3 


colony, in the character of schoolmasters, and mission- 


aries; and expressing our hope, that they would meet 
with such friendly treatment from the Company and its 
ser vants, as their conduet should be found to deserve. 


Several sums were then voted for the missiovaries 
VIZ, | | if d 
For necessaries to be procured on their land- 

ing in Alrica, eight guineas each - - = = 16 16 0 
For their annual income, certain, eighty _ | 

pounds eacgn --- => > 160 0 0 
In ease of necessity, that they be at liberty to 


draw for twenty pounds each, in addition 
to the above = = = =; = = - = = = e Þ 


For the payment of the above sums, a letter of credit 


was drawn up and sent, addressed to the Chairman of the 


Hon. the Sierra Leone Directors, stating the sums which 
we had agreed to allow the missionaries, and requesting 
him to give orders that they might be paid at the colony, 
for which we would thankfully be answerable, on the 
earliest notice. 


It was agreed also, that brother Pearce, who consent- 
ed to go to London to see the missionaries on board the 
ship, should be allowed to purchase books for them to the 
amount of ten pounds, which books Should be considered 
as the property of the Society. 


The followed Letter of Recommendation was then tead, 
approved, and signed; 


* The whole of this sum was aſtetwards advanced w Mr. Pont on 


behalf of the Society, and paid iuto the hands ot the n s Secretary 
in London. 


Vor. 8 p 


[ 102 ] 
Je Baptist Society for propogating the gospel amongst 
the Heathen, to the baptised church of Christ at Sigrua 

Lxox u, under the pastoral care of brother Davin 
Gon, Grace and peace be multipli et. 
„% BeLovep BRETUREN |! 
elt has given us, in England, great pleasure to 
. of you within the last few years. We rejoiced in that 
providence which brought you to your native shores; 
not only as it might add to your comfort, but, as we hop- 
ed, might prove a mean of Spreading the gospel of Christ 
amongst the poor benighted Africans. We have cherished 
a hope that by means of the labours of such amongst you 
who teach the word of God, and by the holy and becom- 
ing conversation of youall, your countrymen may be con- 
vinced of the truth and importance of the christian reli- 
gion. We have considered you as a handful of corn upon 
tlie top of a mountain, and have often pleaded with our 
God on your. behalf, that the fruit thereof might shake 
like Lebanon. The prophecies of holy scripture, brethren, 
seem to be ripening for fulfilment ; when the earth shall be 
Full of the knowledge of the Lord as the walers cover the sea; 5 
tohen Ethiopia hall stretch out her hands to God, and our 
Lord Jesus Christ shall have the uttermost parts of the 
earth given him for his possession. Who can tell but that you, 
and all the godly settlers with you, may be come to Af- 
rica for such a lime as this; and by the little learen at 
Sierra Leone, the whole continent shall in some future 
period be leavened ! 


% Nothing less than this, we are persuaded, is the de- 
sire of many of the worthy gentlemen who first ſormed the 
design of the settlemen. May you, and our brethren the 
bearers of this, and all the godly people at Sierra Leone, 
endeavour to sow the seed of gospel truth, in meekness, 
and gentleness, and love; and we will unite with you 


* 
% 


7 


[ 103 1 
in praying that the holy vpirt of: God may water it it vid 
his blessing. ey 


« It affords us e great pleasure to learn that: you have 
conducted yourselves in the colony in peace, honour, and 
fidelity. We trust you will always se demean yourselves 
as to adorn the pr of God our en, in all ee 


« The bearers of this, e Jacob Grigg; avid 
James Rodway, are two young ministers, who love our 
Lord Jesus Christ, and the souls of the Africans ; and have 
devoted themselves to the work of the Lord amongst them. 
They bear a good character amongst us; and we should 
be unwilling to part with them, bot for the love that we 
bear to the souls of those who sit in darkness and the sha- 
dow of death. Brother Grigg is a member of the bap- 
tist church at Launceston, in Cornwall; and brother Rod- 
way of another at Hillsley in Gloucestershire. Should they 
request occasional or stated communion with you, receive 
them as brethren in our common Lord. That which the 
elder addressed to his beloved Gaius, we presume to 
address to you: Beloved, ye do faithfully whatsoeverge do 
o the brethren, and to strangers—whom if ye bring forward 
on their journey, after a godly sort, ye shall do well; because 
that for his name's sake they go forth, taking nothing of 


the gentiles. Ye will therefore receive such, that ye may be 
fellow-helpers to the truth. 


Some of us have a remembrance of brother David 
George, and brother Cutbert, to whom present the affec- 
tionate regard of us all, and accept thesame to the whole 
church. Dearly beloved, farewell! The grace of the 
Lord Jesus * be wich your spirits! Amen. Fea 
After this, a part of a manuseript prepared by brother 
Ryland, entitled © Christian instructions, &c. designed for 


P 2 


E 


x r 


the 1 use of the msssionaries amongst the heathen,” was. read 
aud approved, and 2000 copies ordered to be printed.“ 


At a quarter before eleven o'clock public worship be- 
gan After singing, brother Hogg prayed: brother Fuller 
then read the first three verses of the thirteenth chapter of 
the Acts of the Apostles, as affording a rule for the pro- 
ceedings of the day; observing that this was the first 
christian mission amongst the heathen—that it was at- 
tended with fas ing, prayer, and the laying on of hands— 
and that the last of these exercises cobld not be for the 
purpose af conveying extraordinary gifts, and conse- 
quently was not confined to the age of 'miracles, seeing 
the parties' on whom bands were Ewe "ey pos- 
8epged of them, * 


After these „ brethren Grigg av Rodway 
were requested to state their reasons for engaging in this 
| work, and some few of the exercises of their minds which 

had led to it ; with which request they complied, to the 
entire eee we believe, of a numerous and res- 
pectable audience. | 


Brother Fuller then a y 3 them to God 
by prayer, accompanied by the laying on of hands by 
the brethren in the ministry then prevent. 


\ 


This manuscript, calculated, not Ws for the instructson of heathens 
abroad, but for children and other young persons at home, as it contains a 
summary of scripture history and prophecy, from the creation of the world to 
the establishment of the christian dispensation, is now printed; and may be 
had of Mr. Burzox, 24, Paternoster-Row, London; Dr. RyLanD 
Bristol; Mr. Furrxn, Keuering; aud Mr. King, N at 4d 
each, or ta for 7s. 


\ 


N. B. The parchdoers of this little pamphlet will please to correct the 
date of the meeting at Birmingham, which, * * is there _— to " 
on rg on 6. instead of 1 16. 


6 


[ 105 J 


After this, brother Ryland addiessed both of thank and 
the ee. The enge is the substance of the 
address. | 


Wirn the design of our . ne this audi- 
tory is already acquainted ; and I have reason to believe 
it meets with your general approbation. I am neither call- 
ed to press reluctant loiterers into our Lord's service, nor 
to apologize to lukewarm professors for an undertaking 
they wish to condemn. But my dear young friends, who 
long for the salvation of the poor Africans, now sitting 
in pagan and mahometan darkness, have requested my 
best advice, before they embark for their destined service; 
and you their patrons, and the generous benefactors of the 
benighted heathen, are willing and desirous that you may. 
be stimulated to greater exertions in the cause of our 
blessed Lord. | 

What passage can I select more suitable to the purpose 
than that contained in the Gth, 7th, and 8th verses of 
the third epistle of John, =Whom if thou bring forward 
on their journey after a godly sort, thou shalt do well: be- 
cause for his names sake they went forth, taking nothing of 
the Gentiles. We. therefore ought to receive such, that we 

_ might be fellow-helpers io the truth. 


This epistle is addressed to the well beloved Gaius; 
a man who manifested the prosperous state of his soul, 
by walking in the truth, and faithfully laying himself out 
for the divine glory; co-operatiug with his brethren, even 
hese who had been previously strangers to him in person, 
for the propagation of the gospel; especially helping on 
their journey, in a manner worthy of God, those who 
vassed by his residence to carry the gospel to the heathen 


: 2 
2. AER 8 


— . 


—— — 
— =» — 


53573 
* — WIR * 3 


= — 2 - — 4, * 22 = 
3 2 > ——_— 
- LV — — Sx — — EGS. AM — 
Dy — — — — — 2 — 
_ — * — - * 
<UL — 2 - — — - 
* bn I NM - re = ex = ee I 
—_— — OS : = FIXES 
= OE DIS ay > A EEE . ES 
wore oe kb 666 9 9252 — _ » 
* Nas . a . N 
— . 4 —— — 2 1 


— 
— 


—— - = = 
— : — 7 3 „ 
* — > - = - I N N — 1 - = — - — = — — ih 
FI RX x I — : = 4 L — 2 — P 32 po 7 — =. 
— n 5 P MM - ILY . — T — 8 =_ a 
* "© —— - —4 1 , — 2 4 — 4 — — — — g IE 
— =D FT l l l = 5 l ib, le 7 - = — = . ————- = _ = 
— — — — — — — — — — — rome, — — 2 —— — — 2 
YI 7 — — : —<—=—=—====q= < - 
TIS, 3 — : — — —— 4 5 - - —— I = — = a = . 
2 —— — — — _ = 2 3 — = ” — * Mets * - 
g - 'M 5 — 4 > 7 — - — 2 2 — — 3 
— S bs 3 > —„ — p r — 
* * — — 1 _ - is IS — — = — — 
r ' — 4 2 = — - — — - 2 
= : — — IS y . 2 > 2 == -— — == : . a . — — 
<> Yo en eh nn = e I 5 — 
1 0 1 r Ms * - 1 — — —— . is = —— — —— 
: - > 7 — — 


— — 


— -_ 
r 

92 
r 


© 
41 


1 106, 
These words will naturally lead me, Firs, To Ix- 


 VESTIGATE THE CHARACTER, 'AND PROPER Disro- 


SITION or A CHRISTIAN MISSIONARY:: and thus lay 
= foundation for some suitable advice to you, my dear 


brethren, who are now engaging it in _ houourable, bot 


arduous eater pergs. 


The apostle John, you Perestes, eser es ay! wed 
tive missionaries, whom Gaius so cordially entertained, as 


going forth for his name's sal e, wee they verved, taking 


nothing of the Gentiles 


I trust detoret vidures, that wa have the same 8 
in view; you act by the same authority; and are influenced 
by the same motives : oh that you may e os * 
end in che same manner ! 


I. The great object of a-christian, missionary is to 
declare the name, or make known the character of God. 
To carry the good knowledge of his name to them 
who have hardly heard of the living and true God, and 
to make known the moral character of the glorious Jeho- 
vah. Without this, the sound of his name can certainly 


| be of no avail. It will not operate as a charm. It the 


same ideas shall be annexed to the appellatives Jehovah 
or Jesus, which heathens annexed to Jove, Mars, or 
Apollo, the change of name would be of w lictle « con- 
sequence. | 


The mere unity of God, though never clearly ascer- 
tained without some help from revelation, would be but a 
small advantage. Mahomet has borrowed this truth from 
the Jews and Christians, and taught it already to some 
of the inhabitants of Africa, as well as to his more E 
votaries. 


| 7 OY 

An higher idea of God's natural perfections, would go 
but a little way towards the moral improvement of man- 
kind, unless connected with a right view of his righteous 
government, extending to the very springs of action and 


requiring purity of heart in every rational creature, as the 
source of universal conformity to his will. 


and could even this last object be attained, it would 
drive sinners, who have already violated the divine law, to 
absolute despair, were you not to lead them to the cruci- 


fied Saviour, the Lamb of God, who taketh away the 
sin of the world.” 


It is therefore, THE GLORY OF GOD IN THE FACE 
oF JESUS CHRIST, which you must ende our to exhibit 
to the pagans, amongst whom you are going to reside. 
Your blessed employment will be to preach, in his name, 
repentance and.remission of sins, assuring them that there 
is Salvation in no other; for thus only can a just and righ- 
teous God justify the angodly; and at the same time ut- 
terly diseountenauce sin. His name is therefore more wel- 
come to the wounded spirit than the richest ointment; 


and in him shall poor sinners from among the gentiles 
trust. | 


0 den how great an honour hath the Lord, even 
Jesus, put upon you, that you, like his servant Paul, 
should“ bear his name before the gentiles, to turn them 
* from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan to 
“Gd, that they may receive the forgiveness of sins, and 


* inheritance among them who are sanctified through 
faith which is in him 4 


Jezvs Guin must be the sum and centre of your 
ministrations. You must have a constant regard to him in 
all your discourses, or you will be sure to miss your end 


6 


— = — 
- — . «& — i Bn — = 

Eee — —-— — — 
— — = — = 


I. EI SI 
4 — 
ES OY 2 


6 Calra N. 


„ 
When you treat on the divine perfections and govern- 
ment; when you unſold the extent of human obligation, 


and chow the spirituality of the divine law, and the dread- 
fulness of its curse, it mast be with a view to convince 


your hearers of their need of a great and all sufficient Sa- 


viour. Thus you must lead them by Sinai and Ebat unto 


4 
* * 


Thie thn must by your chief work, to lift v up ha 4 
ſrom the stem IJEss E, as a standard 1o the gentiles, that 
they may seek for his glorious rest. O point the natives of 
Africa to him who is the antitype of the brazen serpent! 
It they look unto iim, they sball be healed of more deadly 
wounds than any venemous reptile in their torrid clime 


can inflict. Describe to them the glories of the incarnate 


IMMANUEL ; explain his offices as a mediator ; disclose his 
all-oufficient fulness, and the riches, of his super-aboun- 
ing grace. At the same time forget not his regal sceptre; 
assert his mild authority, and the obligations of the re- 
deemed to be devoted to him, who gave bimself a ransom 
Tor 1 equlayen OG; - 


You must jevch sinners to > build all their hich 120 all 
their holiness, on this foundation. If you would comfort 
the broken hearted, pour into the ir wounds this only balm; 
Or, if you would excite a believer to come out from his 


_ idolatrous ' kindred, and be seperate, that he may wall 
in newness of life, you must use the love of Christ to con- 


srain him to obedience. 


Ojo must be Alpha and G the first and the 
last in your ministrations. For his name's sake you are 
going fortli, and in his name may your hearers be brought 
to trust; for there is none other name under heaven, 
given among men, whereby sinners may be saved. 


* 


en, 


„ 0 

2. It is in his name; and by his authority, you are 
sent forth, and to him you must look for suecess. We have 
been unitedly imploring that the influences of his blessed 
Spirit may attend your labours ; and you are aware that he 
only cat open the hearts of the Africans to attend to the 
things you shall speak concerning his kingdom. But he is 
able to subdue, by the effectuai working of his power, even 
all things to himself. He has deserved to have the heathen 
given bim for his inheritance, and we trust that Ethiopia 
shall now soon stretch forth her hands ynto God. The 
word is gone out of his month in righteousness, and the 
zeal of the Lord of hosts SH perform it. The glorified 
Redeemer has all power in heaven and earth in his hands, 
and he shall be exalted iu his own strength. | 


3. We trust that love to his name and to the perish- 
ing souls of men, are the great wotives which have in- 
duced you to engage in this work; and these motives, 
we hope, will be sufficient to carry you through all diffi- 
culties. Go forth for his name's sake, who, bore your sins 
in his own body on the tree. He well deserves at your 
hands that, for kissake, you should be willing to encoun- 


ter eyery difficulty; to quit your native land, to cross the 


stormy ocean, and traverse inhospitable deserts, that you 
may reclaima savage people, accustomed to the worship of 
idols, and to enslave and sell one another to the more 
wicked and obdurate Europeans. For „is sake it is worth 
while to take up your abode among a people of a different 
colour, and of a strange tongue; whose manners will 
doubtless differ widely from those in which you have been 
brought up. For his name's sake you must labour and not 
faint, though youshould meet with the fiercest opposition, 

stirred up by the powers of darkness, who have 80 long 

held that country in unmolested possession. There disse- 
miuate the precious seeds of true religion and virtue, ga- 


Q 


— 


110 
thered from the storehouse of the divine word, and pray 
x that the God of heaven would water the seed sown, and 
5 2 Suu you an- _ harvest. 5 e 
4. 856 me op you, beloved brethren, to con- 
sider in what manner you must go forth on this most im- 
portant errand : you may gather from the text the princi- 
pal ee for your work. 


| bee of eye to the divine glory should be mentioned 
in the first place.“ If your eye be single, your whole body 
will be tull of light ;“ you will find an easy directory for 
your conduct on all occasions : but a double-minded man 
will be unstable in all his ways. If your mind be distract- 
ed by different objects, you will not know how to act. 
Different ends will clash with each other, and produce a 
perpetual inconsislency of conduct. Remember, that you 
have nothing else to do but to please your divine master, 
who hath called you to that holy and benevolent warfare 
in which you are engaged, and wherein you must endure 
hardness us good soldiers of Jesus Christ. If his kingdom 
of grace be enlarged and established among the nations, 
your end is answered, and you have your reward. 


En ire dependance on the strength of Christ is another es- 
sential requisite for your success. You have no sufficieney 
of yourselves; and if he intends to give you much prospe- 
rity, he will make you deeply sensible of your own weak- 
ness. Separate from him, you can do nothing. But the 
weaker you feel in yourselves, the more room there is for 
the display of his strength. There is nothing from which I 
should forebode a more certain disappointment to our 
hopes, than from any tokens of self. sufficieney. The arm of 
the Lord must be revealed, or none of the Africans will 89 
credit your report as to be turned unto him. You can make 


} 
v4 
i 
4/9 
Fly 
4.468 
(if i 
10 
£ 1 
n 1 
} 
* 
wt 


. — 


— £4.48 OL 
2 — 2 


. ůĩ ———— L— — 


: E 111 


no progress in your work without the daily supply of the 
Spirit of Christ: continue therefore instant in prayer, and 
watch in the same, with all perseverancè; knowing that 
neither is he that planteth any thing, nor he that watereth, q 
but God who giveth the increase. And, blessed be his 
name, he hath promised, that“ he who goeth forth and 
weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless- e 
again we rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him,” 


But, 3 brethren, POTTER aol must be united 
with great patzence. © Behold, the husbandman,” after 
much toil, © waiteth for the precious fruits of the earth, 
and hath long patience, until he receive the early and lat- 
ter rain.” Yet, they who sow in tears shall reap in joy. 
Be ye therefore patient, expecting that the Lord may try 
both faith and patience before he grants you any great 
success. Thus he dealt with his servant BRAIN ER D, whose 
lite I know you have read with admiration and pleasure. 
Yea, if you should not live to see the härvest, you shall 
not lose your reward. Take my brethren, the prophets who 
spake in the name of the Lord, for an example of suffer- 
ing affliction, and of patience. They laboured, and reaped 
but little in their own day; but the apostles entered into 
their labours, and their Master received the revenue of 
glory, which they mutually enjoy in his kingdom, where 
he that sowed and he that reaped now rejoice together. 


Let disinterested love to the souls of men constantly in- 
flame your breasts. Shew to all around you, but especi- 
ally to the heathen, that you seek not theirs, but them. 
Unlike the factors of Abaddon, who foment wars among 
the African'chieftains, that they may purchase the cap- 
tives; and regret not the murder of hundreds and thousands, 
iſ they tan fill their floating hells with a ſew scores of them 
chat escape the devouring sword and flames, and get gain 


Q 2 


— 


— — — Ss = —ů = 

8 - * 3 
1 FR Sf 
- * 3 2 Y = 
2 E US IS —— — 


2 

_— 
1 

— pron ty 7 


— — - — — " = =_ — — =_ - a — 
r £ <4 AS 2 41 3. 258 p „ Cn Ds oy _ - - 
= 72 —— S ——— - > =» . = &' — — —— 3 — 4 — — — 
e . Us 8 7 1 ern © — — — * __z - = = 
* ” - 2 8 4 — — K = - — — * — — — - 
<2 ; - — 7 E 2 — : : - = = 
* ＋ 2 hy 8 2 = I — > - T CH 2 
1 P 2 3 2 5 — — bs w $ > - p . # © - - 2 - — ws 2 * > Wy = 
— ac - L == 2 == : 2 *. — 2 SS -r ap XAT —— 5 : _ — = - _ 
a. w 7 - ** — * 2 2 I — — — — —— IE — — n — . my a \ — HERES 
— — 2 F r Ä . SREEt— I — — — — — 2 1 
—.— — — — bu — — — — —— — — A D —. r — — — — 2 = _ 
p 2 - — - a = " a = 2 2 24 > © 2 1 2 — — — = — =_ 
2 — 222 2. - * PR 4 - - * 8 - < 2 = = — 
— — 2 — Prog ol pn 5 * 5 of _— — — — 
7 * — 2 coy Ro = be © "= 2 l = 
* —_ 
ä a * 1 . * 8 ut = —_ — 
: Oy — apo 4 8 2 r t — — 2 1 
Bo ER. 2 * Wr 2 by 3 — ——— —.— — — - 
2 2 = c —＋ . — — ä —— — — > 7 q 2 7 _ I — — 
— 7 N — = . 5 LES Tee — : 
tern — po — — © . _ 2 — _-—_ — 
* 


— 


1 2 : e 

— a; * 
* . — * 
— — — — 


5 . - — 
= = : XX 
G _ — — 
1 9 > " —— — — WES] 
——— 
os — 2222 — 2 
. - 
* — _ "4 — — " - 
1 


112 


by selling "ONE on the other side the n into perpe- 
tual slavery; shew that you would account it greater gain 


to rescue one sable brother from idolatry and ein, chan 10 
return to Europe laden with thousands of gold and silver. 


Though. God hath ordained, that they who preach the 
gospel, should live of the gospel, Paul waved his right of 
support, and laboured with his hands for his subsistence; 


and these primitive missionaries went forth on the like 


plan, taking nothing of the Gentiles, Excellent examples 
these of generous disinterested zeal ! If churches should by 
and bye begathered, and pastors raised up for the Africans 
from among themselves, you will do right to teach their 
congregations to support. them: but do you look to God 
and the sociely which has sent you forth for support, un- 
less he should enable you, by some unexpected * 
deuce, to provide for yourselves. 


Think of the worth of a single soul, —a soul delivered 
from eternal death, and made an heir of eternal bliss !— 
Could you brethren, at the present awful period, when 
the continent of Europe is deluged with human blood, and 
the earth fattened with murdered corpses ; could you still 
the madness of the people, and husb the insensale nations 


to peace; could you produce universal harmony and order, 


and revive trade and commerce in every country, now 
distracted by the wicked passions of men; and could you 
ensure all Europe, for a whole century, or for a thousand 
centuries, the inestimable blessing of peace; would not 
your names be recorded in history as the benefactors of 
mankind ? Would you not be almost idolized as the tem- 
porary saviours of the world? Yet, all the sum of happi- 
ness that could be enjoyed on earth, by all the inhabitants 
of Europe ina thousand centuries, wherein the whole in- 
fernal art of war should be forgotten, and the most friend- 


113 
ly intercourse should subsist between all its nations, and 
temporal prosperity bless every realm; — the whole sum of 
this happiness will be exceeded by the bliss of a single 


converted African, which he shall enjoy in a > boundless 
and blessed eternity. 


Finally, my brethren, look ſorward with humble hope 
to the eternal enjoyment of your blessed Lord. The happi- | 
ness which waits every reai convert turned unto God by 
your ministry, awaits alsoyourselves, and the happiness of 
every such convert shall make a large addition to your own. 
Be faithful unto death, and whether successful or not, you 
shall receive a crown of life. In that blessed world the 
name of your God shall be in your foreheads. There his 
servants shall serve him, in the most perfect. manner: and 
there they that turned many unto righteousness shall shine 
like the stars for ever. We pray that numerous converts 
from pagan idolatry, and mahometan imposture, may be 
your crown of rejoicing in the day of Jesus Christ, and hail 
you on your entrance into the joy of your Lord. —With 


these hopes we unitedly recommend you to God, and wish 


you the amplest suecess in the name of the Lord. 


I now; for a few minutes, address myself to the audi- 
tory at large, and beg leave very briefly to touch on the 
other part of the subject, as the text leads me. 


KI 


Secondly, To sHEW THE OBLIGATIONS OP CHRIS» 
TIANS TO BE FELLOW-HELPERS OF THE TRUTH, by 
lending assistance to those who are willing freely to pro- 
pagate it among the gentiles. 


In what xAxNAHN should this be done ? Aſter a godly 
sort; or, in a manner worthy of God. 


92.18, 


AK Z = — 


rr 


e 


— _” IN WI | "IG 2 2 4 3 
8332 ng 


2 — — — RE PTS 
2 — - — ——— - 1 a = — 
8 * yy . = > 2 = -_ — — —. 2 ry CY by = 
_ = 5 — _ - — 7. = 2 2 7 = = = — 4 = — — £5 > = = Ts 
= 5 a . 5 - Ty — * —_— = = - — — 2 + — =. — — -——- 
— k. 4 2 * J — = IE” wo 1 — 2 — —— 4 — a — — — 9 
— * S — = ba. — So 2 — — 8 * - 7 * S — - þ-= 
ES gx : — —— S — py... 1 
— ed — — —— — — 2 — . 2 — — 1 =_ —_ 
- — — — —̃ l — - T —_— — — —— — —— — — - rl 
yi _ = — . — * — i 


— 


— = 25 * 
— £2 
2 2 


: YT 
God our Saviour deserves that we should make his 


cause our on; yea, that we should preter his church to 


our chief joy: laying out ourselves constantly for the pro- 


ness for this service, by contributing to the support both 


pagation of true religion, and doing whatever we altempt 
of this kind heartily, as unto the Lord. 


me eager now assembled has she wu a readi- 


of our brethren who have gone to Asia, and to those who 


are now going to Africa, to preach the gospel to the Gen- 
tiles. The missionaries should be willing to imitate Paul, 
if needs be, in working with their hands; but they can- 


not expect to learn the native languages without much 


toi], now the gift of tongues has ceased. And if they have 


time to spare, they may probably do more good by a school 


i 


| than any other way; and it that should be partly a free- 
school, it may be for the advantage of the truth. At least, 
therefore, they must have support ſrom Europe for a lime. 
And we want, as soon as fit missionaries can be found, to 
send to other parts of the heathen world. 


Brethren, you have been very generous ; and we trust 
you will continue to shew your generosity. The liberal 


soul shall be made fat. The liberal deviseth liberal things, 
. and by liberal things he shall stand. 


Oh think how liberal Christ has been to us. He gave 


us our all. He gave himself for us! He has been liberal 


of spiritual as well as temporal blessings. He was lavish 
of his heart's blood for us: we are not our own, but His. 
We are the property of our Redeemer. Can we have been 
Sincere in giving, professedly, body and soul to him, if 
we admit not that our silver and gold are His also ? 


Help the missionaries, likewise, by your constant prayers. 
Remember they are going forth for kis name's salce. If you 


115 


love him ; if his name is to you as ointment poured forth, 
help them daily. Vou poor, who have neither silver nor 
gold to give, who could hardly spare the widow's mite, 
you may help by prayer. You may pray open the hearts 
of the rich; yea, while retired in a Birmingham garret, 


you may pray open the hearts of the heathen to receive 
+ 
the truth. | 7 . , 


Let us all, who encourage this undertaking, look well 
to our motives. Do what you do after @ godly s0r/—for 
God's sake—in a manner worthy of ann as 
unto the Lord. 


With what exp ? That we may be COOL to 
che truth, even the truth as it is in Jesus. 


Oh think of the 2 00 hes, by which the deceiver of 
the nations has misled the sons of men. 


| Reflect how great a blessing is the knowledge of the 
truth. True ideas of God—his unity—nature—perfec- 
tions law and gospel. Of man, his duty, guilt, dan- 
ger, remedy, interest, and eternal destiny. 


Consider how little progress the truth has made as yet, 
though the gospel has been in circulation among the na- 
tions for near one thousand eight hundred years. How 
much of the world is still in pagan darkness! How many 
countries deluded, by Mahomet ! How much of christen- 
dom, so called, belongs to Antichrist! What opposition 
have the powers of hell made to the truth of God ! 


Great indeed is truth, and shall prevail at last: but is 
this a reason why we should not be valiant for it? If we 
think so, it never will be spread till we are swept off the 
globe, and another set of christians have succeeded us, 
Meno was cursed who came not up to the help of J EHo- 


van against the mighty, though his own right hand was 
sufficient for him. Let us tremble at that ee if the 
Shadow of it does but 1 over og BOTS 4s « 


1 hs 


Say not, The time is not come, the time that | thi 

| mountain of the Lord's house should be exalted above'all 

1 hills, and all people flow unto it. It is not for us to know 

3 the times arid seasons, which the Father hath reserved 1 in 
his own Power, but to do our "ary. 


t 


If some had not run risques in bringing the gospel to 
Britain, but if they who knew it had waited till our ances- 
tors had sent for it, what had we been at this day ? perhaps 
we had now been surrounding a huge wicker Colossus, 
crammed full of human sacrifices, men, women, and chil- 
dren, to see them burnt to death in honour of the infernal 


gods.“ 


Remember, as soon as Zion travailed, she brought forth. 
Yea, saith the Lord,“ Before they call I will answer, and 
while they are yet speaking I will hear.“ The set time to 


— 


* Druidum—Disciplina. in Britannia reperta ; atque inde in Galliam 
trauslata esse existimatur._— Pro victimis homines immolant,—administris, 
que ad ea $acraficia Druidibus utuntur, &—Immani magnitudine simulacra 
habent : quorum contexta viminibus membra vivis hominibus complent ; 
quibis succensis, circumventi — exanimatur homines. Cæsar's de Bello 


Gallico, Lib. 0 vi. 


See in Duncan's Folio Translation of Cæsar's Commentaries, a picture of 
x large Colossus, made of osier twigs, in which men were burnt alive in 
honour of the gods. Book VI. F. xi. p. 98. 

Among the druidical maxims which have been collected and eren 
this is one | 

Prisoners of War are to be alt: upon the Altars, or BURNT ALIVE 
INCLOSED I WICKER, to the honour of the gods.” 


Rapin's Hist. of Englaud, Vol. I. Introduction, p. vi. 


& 8 


ed, 


[VB 


117 


favour Zion is at hand, when God's servants take pleasure 


in her stones. All christians cannot preach ; all preachers 


must not leave their stations: all have not gold, nor even 


silver to build the temple of the Lord. But all christians 


are the Lord's. All christians can, pray. All then may, 


one wey' or other, be fellow-hel pers to the truth. 


3p 


# 


Arrak singing, brother Pearce concluded the pub- 
lic worship by prayer; and at half past one the congrega- 
tion was dismissed, when we retired for refreshment; 


and at three brethren Grigg and Rod way set off in the mail 
for London. 


At half past three, che society met again, and passed se- 
veral resolutionsrespecting monies in hand, and enlarging 
their committee, by incorporating the committee of the 
Birmingham assistant society into that of the primary 
society, and choosing Mr. Dent, of wennn, instead 
of Mr. Trinder, deceased. 


But that which occupied the greater part of the afler- | 
noon, was, the reading of several letters lately received 
from our brethren in Bengal; to which an answer was 
prepared, approved, and signed. 


A proposal, having been previously drawn up, was read, 
and submitted to the society for extending its aid to vil- 
lage preaching in England. On which it was resolved, 
that as the monies in hand were given for the express pur- 
pose of carrying the gospel among the heathen, we cannot 
otherwise dispose of any part of them without the consent 
of the general body of the subscribers. It was therefore 
agreed, that the said plan should be printed in the Periodi- 


— mc a = ; IE WEE EE 
8 5 af A. 6 — 4 — 


AY 
rp 
1 R 4 — . Se 0 « — — * 
wer £465 es — — — 2 — — —_—_ =_ 
9 IN — 2 — 
—— 9 — — — — = _ — — — — « 
4 X 


_— 
2 


— 


— — — 


—— 


— 


n þ b 
r 


— 


. WES In» LEEs 


2 — 


yu C k — — — ä— = — — — — TSR > {SIT 2 = 8 5 — - — — — — — — 
— — — 1 — = — — 2 — — . — —_ 1 . — * — E 2 — 
: i ——_—_— 4 3 — 2 == PEN * - — - = 3 . = =" 5 - WE — 1 
— =. : : "YE — a — — - - > - — =o 2 — xi — 
x bs — 1 2 — . — — 5 — . + 8 = 2 — 2 —— —= pf 
= Wn 0 — „ rr as ag 1 ESTER —— — — — 5 —= _ a — = — 
E * — mg : = - x — 2 r — = - _— . = ==, Er STS =: == = \ 
— — po — —— — — — — — < - 5 _ 
- + —— — — ou. 22 2 — _ : — —— — — — — = - = b 2 — — 2 2 = 1 — 
5 5 2 — — — — — — — — - — = * — * = — - 
2 1 — * « PITS —— — — — by E 3 
0 — - - We 4 4 = 5 — — 2 — -= — 
= RR. \ SE EEE ES >= ==> 5 = * 8 5 8 — E e _ 
_ — = 5 p : \ —_ _ - — — _ = l Z 
= r - — ot g 7 : * 8 N — 1 - 4 5 4 \ 
, Rs > 
1 — 1 N by 2 * . — — — 8 . = = 
Hoa > 2 — — E — * £ a4 — 8 — * > 
os. ps | £ _ & - = 8 ri = \ 9 
E — —__ — — = = — - 2 J —— 
12 = — fie : 
— — 2 i —— — = e 2 a = 
__ 2 — _ 1 


— 
— — 


— — 4 * - = 
.. ES Ce. Ie . 

WE — 
ACRES OR 
2 = 8 _ 


\ 
* 


1 


cal accounts, by which means we should be able to learn the 
minds of the subscribers; as, if they had any objection to 


it, they might communicate such objection to the seere- 


tary, or some of the members of the committee. 


At seven o'clock in the evening, brother Steadman, 
of Broughton, who was deputed by the Hampshire and 
Wiltshire assistant society to attend this meeting, conclu- 


ded the exercises of the day by a discourse from Zech. 


iii. 8. Hear now, O Joshua, the high priest, thou and thy 
Fellows that sit before thee © for they are men wondered at : 
for behold I will bring forth my servant the BAN H. 


The day, upon the whole, was attended with a good de- 
gree of sacred and solemn pleasure; furnisbing this reflec- 
tion, among many others, that christians need not be idle 


in the Lord's vineyard, if they are but willing to work. 


bl j . 


n 
EXTRACTS _ 
| OF | 
LETTERS nN BENGAL, 
From January 6. to March 18. 1795. 
Mr. THOMAS to Mr. BOOTH, London 


Moypauldiggy,* December 6. 1794. 
Tnoven it is 80 TR since we arrived in this coun- 


try, we are hardly settled yet. But the hurry attending our 
entrance on'the concerns in which we have engaged being 
nearly at an end, you will shortly hear of our pursuing our 
original plan, with more activity than we have been able 
hitherto ; and, we both hope to become helpers of our good 
Society, rather than burthens. We often speak together of 
your kindness to us on our leaving England; and indeed 
it was through a multitude of iaely exertions, and favour- 
able i that we all reached India in safety. Since 
our being here, Mr. Carey has lost his third son by death, 
but the rest of us are in good health and spirits. Be pleased, 

my dear sir, to offer up prayers to God for us, that we may 
be preserved from evil that thepower of religion may pre- 
vail in our hearts and lives; and that Jesus Christ may be 
made manifest to the heathen through us. Oh for some re- 
viving in this dearthy state of the world, where all is dark, 


damp, and damping ! Make intercession for us, I entreat 
”" Ping! | if 
you. 


iaM Bosnoo is with Mr. Carey: ParBoTEE is still 
Several hundred miles up the WRT; and we have not 
seen him yet. J. T. 
About 50 Miles to the northward of Malda. 
5+ 


your: 
— 
— 


—— — 
— _-_ 
— A 


* — —ę—:ẽ m * — — —— 5 — — 
2 . — — — r — == = r 
R - _ FEE > ESE 4 5 + 2 — 1 8 = ak = 
Ty I Re en oo ER: EF = R—_— — — 1 — 
2 . : . — — dnt - * = = 0 2 2 2 
— ——— >= — — — <—— - = — — = \ 2 
* my S - 2 W 2 —_ - — —_ = — = — — —— m * — 
— 2 dnt £- IS Shs ACRE 2 At 1. 553 — EIS FEE _— a — — . . = — WS I F.28 
—— o 1 
* x © 
"> 7 
" G : 4 
: » 2 
+. 4 0 4 : 


— 


2 = — 1 2 * — 
23 * 
b - 8 - — 
—— = — — —u—— —-— — — 
— = = —— 
.. ͤœ¹U!————ñẽ— ae 
* — ä * : "OW 


120 


Mr. THOMAS to Mr. FULLER. 
December 12. 1794. 


We have heard of the ships arriving month after 


month; but to our great surprize and concern, found no 


letters from any of our friends in the nociety. 


Broiker Carey, no doubt, has written largely to you, 
informing. you, that we have each of us undertaken the 
manufactory we formerly mentioned. We are now almost 
setiled have concerns with hundreds of the natives—and 
are the greatest part of the yearat leisure for the business 
ol the mission. We have renewed the work of translating 
the «criptures ; but our progress depends on many circum- 
stances. I have told you, in former letters, with what great 
difficulties we had been all oppressed, and with what good- 
ness and merey we were all brought through. 


Brother Carey and I are loving, kind, and agreeable 
to each other, which conduces much to our mutual com- 


fort. 1 wisb the time were come, when we may have it 


in our power to remit some assistance io the society, and 
so lessen the great charges they have been at in sending 
us out. Should more missionaries be sent hither, our 
homes shall be theirs.* Adieu. | | 


% 


Affeclionately yours, 
ts 80 JOHN THOMAS. 


® The Society hope that it will not be 2 before they Shall be ena- 
bled to send out more labourers, to assist the brethren in their important work, 
and to provide against the interruption which might otherwise be occasioned 
to the publication of the gospe! in Hindostan; an event, which must neces_ 


.8arily follow the death or other removals of the present missionaries, if suita- 
ble successors, qualified by an acquaintauce with the language, &c. were not 


at hand to take their _ 


a. 


= as d oi.” oo. eas ial: as 


Mr. CAREY to the SOCIETY. 


bund " _  Mudnabatty, Jan. 6. 1795. 
Tax wonderful providence of God, which placed us 


in the situation where we now are, must, I conceive, af- 


ford pleasure to all who love the cause of Christ, as we 
may now be enabled to lend pecuniary help to the work of 
God. We have indeed been much hindered in our principal 
work, by the corrupt language spoken here; but this 
is not unconquerable : for, with the assistance of moons, | 
I am enabled to go out, especially on the Lord's-day, and 
preach the gospel to the natives. The villages in this 
neighbourhood containing but few inhabitants, my con- 
gregations are consequently small; though in genera], 
composed of all the villagers. I kave preached already in 
four or five of hese villages, and am extending my sphere 
of action almost every week. Of success, I can as yet say 
nothing : for often, through the want of a more perfect 
acquaintance with the language, I have not been able to 
obtain the attention of the people. Last Lord's-day in- 
deed was more pleasing. I went to u village inhabited 
wholly by professed mussulmans, but who intermix some 
pagan notions with the mahometan, and discoursed with 
them upon the evil and universality of sin, together with 
the holiness of God; and then enquired, If these things 
were so, how they could possibly escape the wrath tocome? 
They were confounded, and said, they had never heard 
these things before, aud that their. Padre (teacher) had 
only told them what were the duties of mahomedanism. 
I then drew a parallel between some parts of the bible, 
and some parts of the koran : among others, this Our 


. 


— 4 


=> —— 2 — 2 = — — On 9 — — = a 
. _ = => Ia IT. —_— \ — 2 l 
_ 1 — 2 1 Fa = 2" - - 8 = 9 0 S - — N <P 
7 — 2 4 2 — Th, = — = CEE - = _ 
- - 0 — _ — 7 —— 
a " _ N py 
a - — - by — = 9 — — 2 = => a — = \ \ 
eos D — — — As — 2 7 — — — — = - = 
_ CE — — — — = - — l ——.. . ————— — > — 
2 * Fi — - - 2 I = 
PI 1 25 — — * < = : — - 2 
yg — we — . - = og x — 5 > — — — 
do mx "x 5 - * , — — . 22 — - * * s A 
* " WES." — * — — 2 % * 9+ > 7 5 8 » + - - — ry => _ 
2 2 — yp oo og — - - —_ 8 22 = ny - - = — = 
— — * 2 * 5 £2 — 7 2 = 
6 5 = —— L - 
gm. — - : 8 ſts — —— — — - - . * : = 
— A — — —— — — 2 * —̃ — — — — — — — — — — = = 
= - 2 ——_ 222 rr — e — = E _ —_—_— — 
. * —— = 2 - : ... 2 a= > r” 8—— Lis — = 
* = * 
o 
x 


— LE. 
— 4 
— * 
. : 
— — 


— 


22 3 
R => = 
— 


— 


122 


bible directs, **Pray for your enemies, and do good to them 


that despitefully use you.” Your korancommands the exter- 


mination of all unbelievers. I then enquired, which of these 


injunctions corresponded most with the true character of 
God ? They confessed that the preſerence must be given to 
the bible: and then promised to cast off their practices of 
lying, stealing, worshipping the sun, offering, to departed 
souls, &c. One man in particular seemed much concerned, 

and condemned his former practices in the face of all the 
others in the place, who also universally assented to what 
he said. I hope God will follow up this work. I promised to 
repeat my visit, and intend to do it frequently. I feel plea- 
sure in thinking that it begins to be in this country some- 


what like what is recorded in the Acts of the Apostles— 


« Almost all Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews 


and Greeks.” So here, I trust, in a little time it may be 


said that the whole district of Dinagepore, both Hindoos 
and Mahomedans, will have heard the word of the gospel. 


Me have here about twenty Europeans, besides children, 
ho are friendly to the gospel ; most of: whom, in a Judg- 


ment of charity, we reckon to be real christians, 


I have been visited with severe Nees; both in my own 
person, and.in my family. My wife and eldest son are just 
recovered from a dysentery of twelve months continuance, 
I have had two attacks of an intermittent fever, which 
was attended with a dysentery also, aud reduced me very 
much; and one little boy of five years old has been re- 
moved from us by death. He lay ill about a fortnight, and 
died of a mortification in his bowels, caused by a flux and 
fever: but God is infinitely wise, and 1 feel a sacred plea- 
sure in acquiesCing in his will. It is to me very wonder- 
ful, that no letter from any of my friends in England has 
yet been received. I am atraid that they have been sent 
by private hands: if so, ten to one if they ever reach us. 


123 


But letters sent by the post seldom miscarry ; and parcels, | 


sent iu a regular way, are sure of being delivered safe.— 
Direct for me at Mudnabatty, near Malda, in Bengal. 


I long to know how all my friends do, especially the 
state of the church at Leicester. I see by an English news- 
paper that dear Mr. Ryland is gone to Bristol; but reli- 
gious intelligence in en I much want to obtain. 


I intend soon to send specimens of Bengalee otter, 55 | 
types. A considerable part of this expence I hope to be 
able to bear myself. Pray write soon, and may God so 
prosper the society, that the greatest good may result 
from it! FH = W. C. 


Mr. CAREY to Dr. RYLAND. 


January 27, 1793. 
Loxs, very long, have I been expecting to hear 


something from my dear friends in Europe: three oppor- 
tunities have elapsed, and I have heard of otber people's 
receiving letters, but every arrival has only brought disap- 
pointment to me. I know my friends would be glad to com- 
municate theirjoy sandsorrows, suecess ordisappointments 
to me; but what can have hindered their arrival? My mind 
is often employed in reflecting upon my dear friends and 
connexions in England. I long to know who is at North- 
ampton? Who at Leicester? How all the ministers do? 
How the Society goes on; and how the churches prosper ? 
| was in hopes of seeing Rippon's Register, and other ar- 
ticles published by my friends; and to have had tidings of 
the American churches, and the success of the cause of 
Cbrist in other parts of the world. I hope the gratification 
will not be much longer delayed ; and when oncel receive 


124 
a letter, I shall naturally expect the same pleasure regu- 
larly by the Ships none season. 


Vou have undoubted] y received my account of the 
manner how divine providence has appeared, both in mine 
and my colleague's favour ; so that though we are tossed 
about awhile, yet, now we have / enough, not only for 
ourselves, but for yielding some pecuniary assistance to the 

cause of our Lord Jesus Christ. 


Though we cannot as yet send you the pleasing ac- 
count of the conversion of any of the natives since our ar- 
rival; yet God has enabled me so far to speak the lan- 
guage, as to preach intelligibly for sometimes half an hour 
together; and with the assistance of Moonshee, at other 
times we continue an hour: and besides our stated seasons 
of preaching, | have very frequent opportunities of serious 
discourse with them upon the dangers that idolaters are in, 
and the absolute necessity of obtaining pardon for hat and 
every other sin through the blood of Christ. Some ma- 
hometans have declared their determination ofabandoning 
their'superstitions; and I think I may say, that there is 

already a stirring among the dry bones; but, alas! the 
Spirit of life from God has not entered into them yet. I 
am now, however, in greater hope than ever before, since 
I have been in the country ; and I doubt not but God has 
some gracious design in the astonishing removals that 
have taken place with us in his providence, and the 
provision which he has made for us. : 


* 


[ have set up a school in this neighboarhood for some 
months past; but the extreme ignorance and poverty of 
. the natives, lead them to take away their children upon 

every slight occasion; and this, in a great measure, pre- 
vents the accomplishment of our design, To remedy this 


” 
E x — 2 * 


LY" * 6 


125 
Mr. Thomas and I (between whom the utmost harmony 
prevails) have formed a plan for erecting two colleges 
(Chowparris Bengalee,) one here and the other at the 
place of his residence; in each of which we intend to edu- 
cate twelve lads; six Mudidimubs; and six Hindoos a 
Pundit is to have the charge of them, and they are to be 
taught the Shanserit, Bengalee, and Persian languages. 
The bible is to be introduced there, and perhaps a little 
philosophy and geography. The time of their education is 
to be seven years, and we are to provide them with meat, 
clothing, and lodging, as well as instruction. We are 
now enquiring for children proper for the purpose. It. 
will be requisite fob he society to send a printing press 
from England ; and, if our lives are spared, we will repay 
them. We can engage native nn to perform the 
press and . s work. 


— 


2 


My love to all che ministers and churches wich whom : 
I had any acquaintance, especially those to whom my 


heart is knit by a long, valuable, and endearing intimacy. + . 


Mr. CAREY to Mr. PEARCE, TR 
January 29. 

I very much long to hear from my dear friends in Eu- 
gland, who can never be erased from my heart; and whose 
christian love and esteem [ wish more and more to culti- 
vate. The concerns of the churches are very near and 
dear to my heart : among others, the church at Birming- 
ham very much engages my affections. Pray how do you 
go on; does the work of God prosper or not; are souls 
converted to God; do those who have entered into cove- 
nant with our Lord Jesus Christ walk worthy their voca- 
tion? Especially, how do my dear friends, —and others 


1 


— 


— — > 
L 


ND n= 
. — c_ ST 


oo => E — Y 


— * — _ - 
_— r 2 — . 


* < ” 


— * 


— 
— 


6. —— 


= 


- oF C 4 
. 
_ of 
1 4 
L N 
Bit 
N N 11 ö 
» 
_ if 
J 1 
. 
9. N 3 
Mm {| | 
1 
e 
7 , 
ih A 
4 Tin! NN t 
I ' 
FR Tf «©? 
v.38 «I 
C1, $1 
rig) 1 Wu 
24 5) 1 
10 
j 
Io 7 — 
T's | 
, 1 
e 
171 1 
—7 1 . 
My 8 . 
1 
33" ” ; 
* 1 
oy N 1 7 
& TH 1 
1 1 40 4 
1 
1 4 
A 2 »* 
ah { 
\ i "*. 7 
1 d 1 
2 94; f 
. "7 
? > | q 
+ . f 
1 Mu! 
{ 3 A 
{lt . 
11 1 * A 
1 J 4 
* 3 oo by | | 
! 3 = 
\ N 2 
if : 
9 4 4 
j 15:05 þ . 
1 2 Ss. 1 
4 »4 
8 7 
© 1 
4 * ug ** £ 
H LI A 
) the 1 
1 A | [ 
} i» { 
« 9 9 
My: 11 
ay © 
% i o 
1 — 
n L & £ 
N "01 1 Fs 
7 8 
* 8 
F ; 
8 * 1 
* 1 I 
By: | q ' 
b 
l Tf ; 
Mt | d „ 
1 11 
* 1 
1 11 
432 © 4 % 
4 1 * 5 
4 164 
9. 
1 1 
N by | 
* , 
q l \ 
F* | 
[4 » YH 
Ma If + 
7 4 5 
ai 
18 , 
FSC $114 
LF 3] 
1 14: oo 
1 e 
[ 4% 
. B 4 
"2% C 
- - a 
' 1 
' F 1 
* 5. 
3 4 
Will os 4 
uH 4. 4 * 
* . 
Fan 3) 
» 
. 252 o 7 
. 1 . 
34 *; 5 
* | * 4 
Mr 
* . 1 
en. TH 
W108 
n 
Den 
nn 
elne 
3H 
Math ; 
n 
= 1 
1 bi 
4 1 6 
+ '- N 
5 * [ is 
e be 
PTY + | 
e. 
122 F 
1 1 » 
WOES 1 


b 1.8 4 ar 
2 Iz > EC 
_ — — * 1 * 
1 — - 8 - 3 
— x — 3 * — 
- — —— —2 
— . —— 
_—_ r 2 
Y w 
1 ” 
* — p 7 7 — 
„ a > * 
L . 
— A 4 


52 > - . 232 
22 — 2 * 
— 8 
3 x = 
19 
1s > 
— . 
44 


— 


of my intimate acquaintance ? How are Mr. E. aud Dr. 


W. &c.? Tell them, I love them much in the Lord 


Jiiesus, and shall heartily rejoice in their prosperiiy, both 


spiritual and temporal, Pray bow is it with yourself and 
Mrs. P. May God greatly bless you with his presence. 


15 have had great darkness, and 1 bless God, some 
light. In providence I have been much &xercised ; but 
now, I thank God, both myself and my colleague have 
enough for ourselves, and 80mething to spare for the 
cause of our Lord Jesus Christ. Oh may I never want a 


3 to expend it upon the most desirable object! 


Me have had long and heavy afflictions; but / for di- 
vine support, and gracious recoveries, I owe 988d praise 
to God, whose * nn, watches over my 
concerns. 


T have had no success yet in the work of t 


among the natives; and yet, am in greater Hopes than 


ever. I know you will clear me from the charge of ego- 
tism, if I tell you what we are doing in this work; as [ 
only speak it to the glory of God, who has put it in the 
power of my hand. I speak 80 much Bengalee as to be 
able to preach intelligibly for half an hour together; and 
I hope, from our situutien, we shall soon be able to say, 
that almost all they in the, district of Dinagepore have 
heard the word of God, both Hindoos and Musselmans ; 
this is already the case in my neighbourhood. 


Many difficulties arise from the superstitions and cast 
of the natives; the latter is one of the most cursed engines 
that ever the devil invented to enslare the souls of men. 


I will give you a specimen. 


127 
When my doo Mule bey died, Feould not 989 0 apon 
any one to make a coffin, though we had carpenters 
in our own employ. With difficulty I engaged four mus- 
sel mans to dig u grave for him, No one would undertake it 
alone, and therefore so many of them went together, that 
they might all have an equal share of shame. We sent 
seven or eight miles for two persons to carry him to the 
grave; but in vain: and my wiſe and I had agreed to do 
it ourselves, when a lad who had lost cast, and our mater 
(aservant who performs the most servile offices) were in- 
duced to relieve us from this painful service. This was 
on saturday; and on monday the ſour musselmans came and 
told us that they had lost cast for digging the grave, and 
that the mundul, or head man in the village, had forbid- 
den any of the people to eat, drink, or smoke with them. 


It is well known that Mahometans have no east; but 
they imagine they have, and the loss of it is to them as 
serious a thing as to the Hindoos. I therefore sent forthe 
man, and told him that he must eat, drink, and smoak 
with them, or stay till J had sent to the judge at Dinage- 
pore. After some prevarication he agreed, and so theaffair 
ended. By this instance you may judge of our difficulties; 
but this is my comfort : divine power can subdue all things; 
and without the holy Spirit, nothing effectual can be done 
any where, or under any eireumstances. Pray for us fer- 
vently. Do you labour in England, and I will in Bengal. 
It is all one cause, and may God give us all success! 


My. CAREY to Mr. FULLER. | 
 Tunoven the mercy of God we are all well, 


except my eldest son; though we have had a considerable 
share of affliction in every branch of the family. The deal- 


2 198 0 


ings of God are mysterious, but always end wel], and fre- 
quently, in our greater felicity. and advantage: thus [ 
trust it is with me both in body and soul. During the time 
in which I could see very little else but sorrow, I was pow- 
erfully supported by the reflections I often bad upon the 
goodness of the cause which 1 had undertaken, and by 
those words of Peter: Ihe God of all grace, who hath 
culled. you unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, aſter that 
e have 8uffered a while, make you perfect, stablish, strength- 
en, setile you I saw, that it was God's method, often- 
times, to lead his people through tribulation, before he 
appeared ſor their deliverance; aud was enabled to rely 
upon his goodness, and trust to his grace. And now that 
J have light arisen out of darkness, and a wide field for 
usefulness, I pray that God may give me a heart to ex- 


press iny thankfulness by a constant deyotedness to his 


work; and, as Tam devoted to his service, may he preserve 
me from embezzling that property with Mich he has 
SN me, and e is Properly ris on. 


= Fw Ge ee of preaching to MG 
ans here, and of social converse with valuable men; and 
I am now able to preach a litile in Bengalee, or rather, I 
mix Bengalee and H indoostanee together; but can be un- 
derstood tolerably well, much better than I can understand 
them. My situation obliges me to travel much, and 1 
have had opportunities of preaching near an hundred 
miles further up the country. I was a little time since 
vichin sight of the mountains which separate Bengal from 
Tibet; and almost out of the Company's dominions : 80 
that not only in my own neighbourhood is the word 
preached, but I have opportunities of publishing it among 
the more distant inhabitants of the country, were, proba- 
bly, no European lias ever been before. 


« F det N » s — x 


en 


129 


I cannot help hoping that God will soon work for his 
own glory in the conversion of some of the people; they 
hear with great attention, and some have declared their 
resolution to part with all their superstitions, and seek the 
true God. Poor souls! They have need of the gospel 
indeed! Their supersitions are so numerous, and all their 
thoughts of God so very light, that they only consider 
him as a sort of play-thing. Avarice and servility are so 
united in almost every individual, that cheating, juggling, 
and lying, are esteemed no sins in them: and the best a- 
mong them, though they speak ever so great a ſalshood, 
yet it is not considered as an evil, unless you first charge 
them to speak the truth. When they defraud you ever so 
much, and you charge them with it, they coolly answer, 
et is the eus tom of the country.” This may serve to shew 
you how difficult it is to convince them of sin; for though 
their Shasters* abound in expressions of the evil of the 


1 


ebe writings esteemed sacred by the Hindoos, are of two 


kinds; the BEDas, or original RY and the SHASTERS, 
or commentaries on the Bedas, 


The 1 say that Beass Muni, « or Benn the inspired, 
a prophet who lived in the reign of Judistheer, on the banks of 
the Jumna, near the present city of Delhi, collected jrom every 
part of India the detached pieces of which the BRD As are now 
composed, and gave them their present form. 


They are divided into four books, which are all written in 


the Shanscrit language: they contain 100,000 Eclogues, or 
stanzas in verse, each of which consists of four lines. 


The first Bedais called RuG BDA, which signifies the sci- 
| ence of divination, concerning which it principally treats. 


7. +4, _ 8. © MK. — OS. Then hn ag 


The second is distinguished by the name of Snznam : that 


| word signifies piety or devotion ; and this book accordingly treats 
of religious or moral duties, 


* 
7, 


=—_ 

heart, and the necessity of an entire change; yet not one 
in a thousand has ever seen or heard even them. Nay ! 

have found many Brahmans so ignorant that they have 

never seen their own shasfers ; and many who are esteemed 

learned, do not know the difference between a $hanserit 

grammar and a religious book. An instance of this or- 

, curred last Lord's-day. - I had occasion to go and preach 


— —— * 


\ 


The third is the Ju bon BzDa, which as the word im- 


plies, comprebends the whole science of religious rites and 
ceremonies. 7 „ Frere 


The fourth Beda they call OBATER BAH: in the Shan- 
scrit, OBATER signifies the Being or the Essence; and Bay, 
good; so that the OBATER BAH is literally, the knowledge of 
the good being: and accordingly this book comprehends the 
whole science of theology and metaphysical philosophy. 


— 
— 


— —_— 


— -——_ 


— — ow 
- - 


. —— 


. ———_—— 
TE 


ER Cn ES 
= = 


The word SHasTER literally signifies knowledge; but itis 
commonly understood to mean a book that treats of divinity and 
the sciences. There are many shasters among the Hindoos. The 
chief are the BEDANG, the NEADIRSEN, and the Dirk Mm Shas 
ters. 'I'be Hindoos are divided into two, grand religious ects, 
Almost all those of the Decan, and of the Malabar and Coro- 
mandel coasts, are of the sect of the Bedang : but the geners- 
lity of the Hindoos of Bengal, and all the northern part of Hin- 

dostan, esteem the Neadirsen as a sacred shaster. Phe first pait 
of the Dirm shaster maintains those religious tenets which are 
common to both sects of the Hindoos.— NB. The Neaditsen 
shaster consists of seven volumes, the first of which is deposited 

in the Britssh Museum. | e 


— — = — —— 
- : 
n 
ä recite 
5 * * — 

x - 

- 


4 — — 
=_ 


An, 
5 
j 


- 0: _ = 
4 — 2 — 

* 0 

Oy — 


2 —: <A — — — - — > — 2 — _ 
—=2"2A _ CEC = — . — — 
9 — n 1 — * —— + 2.4 —— 8 — 8 p 0 
. b —— — 
2 — — . : 


- 
———_— 8 * 
— — — — — 


OB — PII : 
——_ 5 ——— * 
e 
— — a —— ER — 


See Dow's History of Hindostan, Vol. I. introd. pp; xxv,—li. 


Some authors have distinguished the two chief shasters by 
the names of the Viedam, and the Shastah. 


Holwell's Historical Events, Vol. I. p. 11. 


R Js All other languages were casually invented by mankind 
to express their ideas and wants; but eee Gr ſormation 
of the Shanscrit seems to be beyond the power of chance. 1 
regularity of etymology, and grammatical order, it far exceeds 
th: Arabic. It in short bears evident marks that it has beet 


th 


= — IO — no % - * bs 8 Fora he =p " — 
— — - — — — — — 3 4 — 2 
= ICE — —— TOI — — 8 — =. = : a <#. 2 
- 7 - — 9 ( . 
— — W _—_ 9 
22ͤͤ MXX. att 74> 1 * 2 = 2 2 AG I. LORE OL 
— ER — . — 8 — — 328 2 
mt. T — — — * — re ns — — — —— — — - wa 979 — — 
g 3 2 « 7 Ak. — 4 ” wy 3s: - _ "= x. 
- a4 par on en — — yt Sears <2 = — "RE hed _ — — — 
-4 — 2 — — 8 2 — r 


= 5. @ — 


131 1 
to a company of people who. were worshipping Sa no- 


 8VADI,* the patroness of literature. The general opi- 


nion of the learned is, that the idols are only images, hav- 
ing no power in them; but that it is well pleasing to God 
to worship them in honour” of the persons they represent, 
who they say, were eminent for virtue or goodness to men: 


the Brahman however who attended this ceremony, told 


me plainly that this image was God. When I asked him 
by what authority he did this, he answered, that the shas- 
ters commanded it. Ienquired, What shasters? He said, 
The BEEACCORAN, which I knew to be only a grammar. I 


was much drawn out in love to their souls, and was enabled 


bn 2 — 1 _—_ r 3 


Gxed upon rational principles by a body of learned men, who 
Studied regularity, harmony, and a wonderful simplicity and 
energy of expression. 


Though the Shanscrit is amazingly copious, a very small 


| grammar and vocabulary serve to illustrate the principles of 


the whole, In a treatise of a few pages, the roots and primitives 
are all comprehended; and so uniform are the rules for deriva- 
tions and inflexions, that the etymon of every wotd is with fa- 
cility at once investigated. The pronunciation indeed is $0 
quick and forcible, as to make it difficult of acquisition even in 
early years: but when it is once attained to perfection, it strikes 
the ear with amazing boldness and harmony. The Shanserit al- 
phabet consists of fifty letters; but one half of these convey 
combined sounds, so that its characters in fact do not exceed 
vurs.in number.) 


Dow's History, Vol I. p. xxvii. 


* The feast of SunREE PUNCHEMEE falls on the fifth day 
of the newmoon in January, and is dedicated to SURSUTEE; 
(probably pronounced differently in different parts of the coun» 
try) the Gentoo goddess of arts and letters. She is fabled to 
be the daughter of Birmah and Birmaanee, The Koyt cast, or 
tribe of writers, are prohibited the use of pen and ink on this 
festival, which are consecrated to her for the day, and a cessa- 
tion is put to business of every kind, —SEEREE signifies for- 
tune, or success, and is the first word of every epistolary cor- 
respoudence in the Gentoo language. | 


Holywell, Vol. II. p. 134. 


182 
to warn them against the devices of their teachers; for a 


considerable time ; and felt more than usual want in 
rb and bao dle want of words. 


| Pray how Fl you do, and the churches of tay; acquain- 
tance, especially Leicester and Moulton! My love to your 
friends. I hope you are better of the affliction in your head, 

God preserve you! Pray let me hear from you. 


* 


? | f | 5 > P 
To the CHURCHin HARVEY-LANE „Leicester. 


of g 1 — mo * - 
: : — —k - n . 
OP 1 _— ' a S . as 4 _ = = = 
— — — — G — iſ 5 at „ 
b — - = : 2 — * Et 2 = 
- — 8 — 
5 E 2 * - — 
= - 3 1 « 
— r — 22 
% 


. nu 


Mr EVER DEAR FRIENDS, | "NS February's 


Neve yet since I left Europe have .I heard one 
word respecting the state or welfare of any of you. Four 
opportunities have passed, and each has only mocked my 
anxiety. The prosperity of the church at Leicester lies 
very near my heart, and is an important object in my 
prayers. [ should have no greater joy than to hear chat 
wh children walk in truth. 


— — 
— 2 


o \ 3 = 1 > * — — = — = . 2 = = 
. = l - = "PIE * = = — 
jw — — — 5 ——_— \ 2 * 
— — E Tad 2 e — > E = = 5 
AY _ — — 2 — — - - & "> — —_ * — = - N — — 5 
_— > 2 _ 2 - — * — ow — Nr % 2 — « > -D — — * - — 
2 =o. 2 * = — — — 8 _— 2 XL — - = — 2 — - . - re 
— — n ge g ou — _ © — — — — 3 — 
. * S< 2 _ . — — — — 
_ > — * _ Ju 1 2 = A —— — - E . - 2 
2 — 2 n — — ä —— == — == = 7 b 
s * * 2 -3 Y 2 A 1 — — — — - — — 
* 2 2 
* * —— W 2 1 2 *_ 
— — N at bs r SL 
"Fc = II — —=—_———— 
. S s > — * 
* = IIA _— __ Joy _ — — * 
— «SL — 5 . — _., — 
8 — - — — 
2 r —. — - - 8 — 
— — In — — n 8 þ —4— . 


I very much kane! that the spirit of prayer and christian 
love, which you enjoyed at the time of my departure, isnot 
evaporaled, but grows and advances more and more;— 

that you still encrease in numbers, and encourage one ano- 
ther in every good word and work;—that the glorious doc- 
trines of che graceof Godarestill the glory of the chureh;— 
and that the order and discipline of the church is not neg- 
lected on any account. Consider, it is for God and his 
glorious cause that you act; and that you can only expect 
peace and prosperity in religion by walking in all the ordi- 
nances and commandments of the Lord blameless ; and 
that all the promises of God are made to those who honour 


1 
— * nn? 

= —— 2 
- — 


== 
— 


5 
62 —— 
— 1 
— — 
5 —— 


, 
ba * N 
- . 


—_—_ wy, aa 


133 


him by an exact and scrupulous 0 to the word 
and ways of our Lord Jesus Christ. 


I have begun to preach in Bengalee ſor some time, and 
am not wholly without encouragement. Several of the 
Mahometaus express a great act. to hear the word of 
God and I have repeated opportunities of discoursing with 
the Hindoos also; for their idolatrous feasts very frequent» 
ly occur, andT can often go into the places where the 
idols are, and oppose them to their faces, and to the face 
of all their defenders. The common people, indeed, care 


| just as much for their idols, as the carnal multitude in 


England do for Christ at Christmas—a good feast and a 
holiday is ail in all with them. 


I long to know whether you have got another minister 
yet; and whether he be beloved or not. Pray be very 
careful to esteem him very highly in love for his work 


sake. Is he ordained yet: and have you the ordinances 


of the gospel among you? Do those who joined the church 
at the time of my departure walk worthy of their christian 
vocation? My love to your minister, and to Mr. Robinson, 
accompanies this. : 

I have now frequent opportunities of preaching to Eu- 
ropeans, as well as to the natives; so that, though I was 
for a long time as it were shut out of the world, yet God 
has again opened my mouth, and I trust that Isball be 
no more dumb, 


Wishing that the grace By our Lord Jesus Christ, 
and the love of God, and the communion of the Holy 
Ghost may be with you all, 


I am affectionately: yours, 


Wil; 


b ” 


— —— 1 
— TEE I 
— * — — _- 2 
5 —— — Tr 
* po I - Fo 
LEE IIIELEEISET EZ 


- * * = >. , 
— — = > 

= — 

r 
3: — 


hed 
- 


. —ʒ — — — - — 
— RE IN — — * — 2 


= 


= 


EST — — 


—— 2 2 — 

* ** 2 

— % * = 

= 4 IC 

- r r nee 
{eb porn ny ae > = = ng 
r g = 5 — 

* * - — 


— X - = 
- — 25 Me Yon 


— ͤ — 


| 
111 
on 


— — — — — — 
ft — — EARS. nn 
— — — 
— 


0 


3 2. 


ah — * 
—̃ — 2 


1 
= 
n 
\ - 
q o 
e & 1 
wy 
ns 
» * 
N * 
4 * 
FF _ 
_— 7 
FX 
NJ ” 
4 3 9 
1 bs 0 
c 
U 
b.. 
1 5 j 
\ ; 
* x 
l 
1 
= * 9 
P 
1 ie * 
= _ 
J * — 
4 = - i 0 
” 4. off 
' £1 
=y 
{ \ 
" 
| ; 
\ ö 
6 \ _— |; 
\ — 1 
p \ : 
. 
_ 5 
1 3 
n 
Fr \ t9 
F . 
=, KAY 
18 
171 9 
* 10 
$6 
** 
5 ; bi 
1 i [i 
. f 
l 11 "F 
. 1 t " 
\ i: 
N ki - 
A ir N 
Fr "1, ; 
ag? 
1 ſ # 
N 
* # P 4 
itch + 
1 
0 
e 7 
U 
2710 
q \ 4H , 
þ « 
"at eg - 771d 
86 4 
N 1 
TT! : G { 
7 0 
was ib 144 
i N 7 
140 In 2+ ot 
it =! 
Die 
N 1 
el Fi: (rey 
N 
44. 1 LM 
N "4 . 
\ 7 14 2 
ar F At 
{it . t 
i ! F 
"4 i n 
94 \ FA 
; . 
1 ! * x 1 
n 
l * 
15 J 
vu * 
. 1 
e 16. 
FM 1 1 [ 
TT \ * 
by [8 © 
* 1 1 
N WW 
i! [ 1315 
S140 © x20 
"T71 bs | 
An:; 
15 \ { 
þ bs 
1 _ 
4 
ii « 
{14:8 LS 
= 148 
mu 59 
ery l ) 1 
Wh 4H. 
, 4s | 
\ . 
\ i j 
17 19 
* p 
# | * N 
1 
„ * 
N T5 . " 
S9) N 44 
i| &* 
” 
1 . 
q * 
} , 43» 4637 
4 . 1 4 4 oy 1 
19 * 
N 
1 i i 
1 1 
\ "OF: of 
14 ; 81. 
*. os 
4 VI! 
oy | 
+ 
"7 
1 
3 i 
973 
7 
{4 
\ 
i 
TH 4 
1 
U 
* 
4 1 
+ 1h; 
WE 3s 
ii 
IT ! 
78 
TT. 
N. 
16 
vl hit 
* 
tl 
1 
i} I's 
..V 4 
14 
WI 
10 0 
' . & 
0 
1 
"ra J 
} "1 
U 
5 


— = . — — 2 2 s Ken Pn ma the BS 
2 <= — 2 : — DELL ea i, — — — 5 K == = Se == — —— 
— = — 128 - — — — — 1 — a — —.— 
A IE — — * . — — 2 "= 1 — — — EDS: * . - * — Js — 

— - — "= i —_ a : OED 4 = _—_— — ——— 

—— — —— — done won ns Os Rt. — —— — — — ts 5 — . a _— ů ů * on 
3 SS — — NE = — == — — - = 
2 % < 
- 


134 


ur. CAREY to his FATHER. 
» . 
Rove Wa elch es and Hindoos manifest a wish to 


be instructed in the word of God. Last Lord's day I went 
to a village near to where I live, called Mudnabatty. At 


my first entrance I saw a house which I knew was devo- 
ted to Mahomet. TI asked, what house that was? They 
answered, it was EMaux's. I enquired, who Eu Aux was? 
They could not tell. © Does he live here, or any where 
in this country ?” They answered, He was dead. I then 


enquired, why they erected a house for a dead man; and 


what end it would answerif no one lived there? They in- 
timated that it was for the salvation of the people of the 
place. I then asked,“ If you have any calamities befal 
you, will this house, er its owner, help you? They hare 
no . and if you are sinners, they cannot forgive 
you.” I then discoursed with them farther on sin, their 
sinful state, heaven and hell; and then of the sufficiency 
and efficacy of the gospel way of salvation; and pressed 
them to cast off their evil ways and false Mahometan 
worship, and seek salvation by Christ. This they pro- 
mised to do; and I am in hope that God may bless che 
word to their Salvation. 


—OCOOGIDCo- 


Mr. CAREF to his SISTER. 


March 11. 
As 1 have a great solicitude to hear of your wel- 


fare; so, I doubt not, you have to hear of mine; though, 


suppose; you have received my letters before now, and 


n 


le 


| © 95 | ; 
are therefore easy on my account. Many changes have 
been experienced by me since I left England, but I find 
that all have been conducive. to my good, and trust will 
be found to the promotion of the knowledge of the gospel 
ok our Lord Jesus Christ; yet I, have abundant cause 
to complain of my unfruittulness from day to day, and to 
bewail the exceedingly ungrateſul returns that I make to 
God for all his very great goodness and bounty towards 
me. I trust that I am not forgotten in the, prayers of my 
friends, and sometimes think that perhaps it is in answer 
to their requests that the love of God is kept alive in my 
soul. | 


The inestimable blessing of christian society is enjoy- 
ed but scantily here to what it is in England; for though 
we have very valuable christian friends, yet they live 
twenty or thirty miles distant from us; and as there are 
no high roads nor inns in this country, and during the 
rainy seasou no method of conveyance but by water, we 
have the pleasure of seeing each other but seldom; though 
when we do, it renders our interviews much more sweet 
and agreeable than they might be if we met oftener. My 
opportunities for preaching the gospel to the natives are 
frequent, as I have concerns with almost all the farmers 
in the neighbourhood for twenty miles round me, and 
hundreds of the labouring people in our employ. I de- 
clare to them the evil and universalily of sin—the mise: 


ry of a natural state—the justice of God—the iucarnation 


of Christ, and his sufferings in our stead—and of the 
necessity of conversion, faith, and holiness, in order to 
Salvation, They hear me with attention in general, and 
some apply to me for religious instruction. I hope in 


time I may have to rejoice over some who are truly 
converted to God. 


have enjoyed for the most part, better health here 
than in England ; but was afflicted by a flux and fever for 


» 8 0 


136 

about two months. The last year was very unhealthy. 
We had so many people ill, that we could sometimes 
scarcely carry on our business. The quantities of rice 
which grow here greatly contribute io this unhealthiness ; 
for it grows half way up the straw in water, and to assist 
the growing of the grain, the water is confined in the 
fields, and suffered to stagnate there. I often reflect on 
your sitnation, and long to know how you do in body, 
soul, and circumstances. Sister M. used to be often com- 
plaining, and I almost envy her; for there is a kind of 
sweetness in such pain, and it is beyond comparison 
preferable to that unfeeling carelessness which loads the 
soul with guilt whenever it reflects at all. I remember 
you all in my poor addresses to God, and _ that Lam 
not forgotten by you. 


Mr. CAREY to R. B 


| Du Beier 
March 12. 
A recollection 4 the les dhi which subsisted be- 


tween us while I was at Leicester, induces me to wish for 
its continuance; friendship being of so sacred a nature, 
that no distance can exiinguish it, nor prevent its com- 
munication ; nay, it will outlive the world; and souls 
formed alike, and sanctified by the grace of God, will in 
the heavenly world enjoy that communion in perfection, 
which was begun here below. I am the more desirous of 
expressing my regard to you, because, though I never had 
the pleasure of very intimate conversation with you res- 
pecting the more spiritual and experimental exercises 
of a genuine christian, yet our genera] conversation upon 
these points gave me reason to hope that you were not 
unacquainted with what the Co hr terms, Walking 
wich God.“ 


— wy TW — „ 


_ 
Jr 
©, 
in 
ls 
in 
n, 
of 
ad 


8 
es 
ON 
ot 


og 


f | 7 | 
Go on, my friend, in the ways of genuine apostolie ehris- 
tiauity. Iuvestigate the ways of truth, and pursue the paths 
of holiness; or in the expressive language of the serip- 
ture,“ Prove all things, hold fast that which is good. Be 
faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life.” 
My present situation is remarkably favourable for the 
business of the mission. I have ready admission into 


every place, and that part of the country where I am is 


extremely populous. The people are very ignorant, but 
their attention to the gospel is astonishing. Many of the 
Mahometans have acknowledged their superstitions; and, 
I believe, some of the Hindoos are ashamed of theirs. 


Though the genius of the people here is as inventive 
as that of any other nation, yet they all travel on in the 
beaten road of antiquity; and every thing new is generally 
condemned without a trial. What their forefathers were 
some hundreds of years ago, that are their posterity now. 


The cast is the great obstacle to improvement and know- 
ledge; for whatsoever employment the fathers followed, 


the same is followed by the children from generation to 
generation, nor can they exchange it for any other.“ On 


this account, very few can read or write, that being the 


peculiar employment of the Brahmans and Caestos; very 


few others knowing any thing of it: and so great is the 


influence of example, that the Mussel mans are as attentive 
to their imaginary cast, as the Hindoos are do theirs. To 


— 


* No Hindoo can raise himself above the condition of his forefathers. 
An individual who acquires great riches, or renders himself respectable by 
his virtue and good conduct, still continues to be treated by those of a super- 
rior cast with haughtiness or contempt : though he were a Lock, a NRW- 
TON, or a Pope, he will never be admitted to the ra ans of men who 
are in fact born his TT, | 


— 


Couteur's Letters, p. 313. 


e e LIPIDS 1 & bal . JE -- a — - + . 2. W—_ 2 

Gn 3 — 3 2 — 47 — — — 
A JOE 4 l 3 , — — - —— = 1 —— —— = 

1 S r — es 2 CS A nn : 2 
* . -A 2 4 * — 5 8 


5 7 2 a 2 %aoes * a. - ” - — — 
5 — ies ——— — — — — 5 g — — 
* — — — — — — . - - _ 4 — * W 
* > — © 4 — * 8 nh _ 
= . — — 1 _— * E — — 
— 2 2 — — 2 9 — — ITT — Ry __ _ — 1 =_ _y = —> 
— 2 — — REES — — — g - _ — l — = - \ 1 — — 
— ws * 7 wt — . — J a — 5 — * * N 
_— 8 ww 1 * — — 4 — enn 
* *** By : 4 2 — - 2 — - - * — 
5 ws v : - 1 4 . ; $5 es by — —— — —— "n 
4 * 2 OP" hs 8 n 1 = —=4 v4 — — — . F 
A — * "mw — — A * — — 2 5 —_ - gs gy or wy — = — 
— - a - _ S 2 2 — —_— 2 22 "IO = 2 * 23 l * 1 — — — = _—_ , = — — 
8 N IST : — 2 . 3 5 : — 53 =_ =_ 
- — Vi >. op 1 * - — IDs om s — g - - * — 8 a — — — —-— — — — — — 8 2 em N ky a 2 
— = —.— — — — ——'⅝ vo — — 2 2 22 * e- 2 2 = -_ nb. = 8 —— 
—— — 2 4 — — — — - = — 3 r + —__— 4 * 1 — — r I LS — _— \ : 
— 2 —— 6 . = 8 — oy " Z —— —— — — — 8 ms = —— — + . - = 
- —— 2 — — — ——_—_ * — — — — —— be . A — —_— - — — — — * L - * = 
* — RE — —y gy nun rage — 7 ht — "RX" —— — Q x ba — — LS —— = — en — b _ — = > —_ 
— — — — : 2 n 8 — — . —— - — on Or —— === - - — - = 
— — == = — X —_— — A — = a = to In — — — — 5 _ © << 8 2 W 2 - vos 
— * - HAM — : = - — — - v — 3 - — = — v 


eating of it degrades him who eats it.“ 


: | . 2 


lose cast is attended with a dissolution of every relation and 


connexion in life; so that relatives and acquaintance will 


never eat, drink, nor smoke with them any more.— The 
most trifling incidents will occasion this loss, as eating or 
smoaking with another cast or nation; and if any thing 
be HNSF with water, by one of an inferior cast, the 


: i 


1 


The stories of their benevolence, humanity, and meek- 
ness are all false, and exist only in the doctrines of the 
shasters, which have been neither seen nor heard by a 
thousandth part of the people. The very reverse is the case. 
Lying, avarice, perfidiousness, cruelty to animals, and set- 
vility are the most prominent features in their character; 
and though it is taught in their shasters, that it is the same 


sin to kill a brahman, a cow, ora toolsey-tree } (a kind 


of basi],) yet, great numbers of cows are annually starved 
to death iu the dry season, merely. through the avarice 
and neglect of their owners. Their idols are numerous, and 
when the season of their idolatrous worship is over, the 
idol is always cast into some water. The common people, 
and a majority of the brahmans, account these idols to be so 


many deities; but the most learned acknowledge only 
one.+ 


oct. 2 


* I have seen a Hindoo who had not taken food for four or five days 
refuse by eat rice, because it had been boiled by a christian. 

Comeur's Letters, p. 332. 

1 The following account of the deity is translated from the original 
scriptures of the Hindoos, by Mr. Houweir, 

God is one—Creator of all that is—God is like a perfect, sphere, 
without beginning or end.—God rules and governs all the creation by a provi- 
dence, resulting from first determined and fixed principles Thou shalt not 
make enquiry into the essence and nature of the existence of the eternal one, 
nor by what laws he governs.—An enquiry into either is vain and criminal. 
It is enough that day by day and night by night, thou seest in his works, 
his wisdom, power, and mercy—Benefit thereby.” 

Ut supra. Vol. II. p. 31 


8 an — — ww — 


| 139 

We have many tygers in most parts of the country, 
but are not under apprehensions of danger from any beast, 
as they are not so fierce in our neighbourhood as in the 
south part of the country, which is one large forest called 
the Sunderbunds, from Sunder, the name of a tree which 
abounds there, and bund, a ſorest. This forest is about 
four hundred miles long, and one hundred wide, inter- 
sected with great numbers of rivers, many of them very 
arge. It is uninhabitable to men, and is abandoned to 
tygers, rhinoceroses, buffaloes, hogs and deer, on which 
account it is dangerous even to land chere. 


— 
- % 


Mr. CAREY to Dr. RYLAND. 


| March 13. 
In conformity to my promise, and because J reflect | l 


with pleasure upon the degree of friendship with which 
you were pleased to favour me whilst I was at Leicester, 
I now write to you; not with a view of giving you any 
information respecting mysei{—that can be of - little con- 


sequence; but to acquaint you, as far as I am able, with 
what respects the country. 


The country of Bengal is one large plain, or rather 
valley, watered by some hundreds of navigable rivers, ma- 
ny of them as large as the Thames at London; the princi- 
pal are the Ganges and Berhampooter, each of which are 
on an average, about three miles in breath, and present 
an exceedingly grand scene to the eye of the speetator. 
I live near a small river called the Tanguan, and am not 
very far from the entrance of Tibet. In Bengal there is not 


„( 0; PR 


if 
* 
þ 
4 
3 
= 
463 
© YN 
| 
:Y 
* 
U 
! 
= 
1 
? 
' 
! 
1 
1 
= 
4 | 
[ 
1 
+4 


140 


a bill to be seen, nor a stone, except what has been brought 


from some other province. The soil is in general astiff clay, 
but very fruitful. I think, however, its fertility has been 
much exaggerated ; for it requires the aids of cultivation 


as much perhaps as any country that is known. © I own 


that I was much deceived in my expectations, for I had 
formed an idea of fragrant fields, aud flowery plains; but 
less fragrance or variety I have never perceived in any 
place. The climale is remarkably pleasant, and the heat 
seldom more than eighty six degrees. Our dry season is 
sometimes very cold in the months of December and Ja- 
nuary. I was obliged this season to wear my great coat 
the whole day, and yet shivered with cold. Perhaps, as 
our houses are constructed on as cool a plan as possible, 
this may be one cause of our feeling it so much in the 
winter season. The rains e appear to me greatly to 
exceed the rainy » whether id England. If we have rain for 


six or seven days at once, it is suceeeded by as much fine 
weather, and this is by far the pleasantest part of the year: 
but the dampness of the atmosphere is incredible. The 


amazing quantities of rice which are cultivated here, con - 
tribute not a little to increase it; for the stagnant water 
often becoming putrid, that part of the season is un - 


healthy, especially towards the lee of i it, about Sep- 
tember and October. | 


The diseases of this country, so far as J can judge, are 
more occasioned by cold than heat; few taking the neces- 
Sary precaution against the coldness of the night, which 
Succeeds the heat of che day. Intermittents and dysente- 
ries are the most to be feared of any other, and are very 
difficult of cure. There is a disease called the mahabead, 
or greal sickness, which is peculiar to the natives, and 
more dreadful] than the pestilence. Its first symptoms are 


blisters in the extremities ; in a short time the fingers and 


141 
toes off, the hands and feet are covered. with ulcers, and 
the parties die miserably. Itseems to be allied to the scro- 


-phula. This dreadful complaint has been always thought 


incurable, but Mr. Thomas has been successful in his ap- 
plications. Preparations ofmercury have always succeed- 
ed, and one patient was cured by a preparation of steel. 
Another singular disorder is an excruciating periodical 
pain in the bowels, which generally returns in two or 
three days, but not at regular intervals.. The natives have 
a method of cure exactly like animal magnetism, 


The nat history of Bengal would furnish innumer- 
able novelties to a curious enquirer. I am making collec- 
tions and minute descriptions of whatever I can obtain; 
and intend at some future time to transmit them to Europe. 


The species of plants are not numerous, and many 
which grow in other countries will not thrive here; as 
vines, oranges, and some others. Birds are very numerous; 
many, I believe, have never been described by any au- 
thor. I think there are almost as many species in this 
country which have been hitherto undescribed, asT have 
ever seen descriptions of in the world. The beasts here 
have in general not been unnoticed, but I have seen some 
of which I never read. 


We have eight species of the cat kind that I have seen 
or obtained credible accounts of, viz. the tyger, leopard, 
ounce, cotlas, tyger-cat, small tyger-cat called boon-billo, 


a smaller kind, and the common cat. The lion is not in 


Bengal ; and there is an amazing difference in the fero- 
city of the tygers. We have rhinoceroses, buffaloes, bears, 
elephants, hogs, deers, jackalls, and wild dogs, hares, 
muskrats, rats, mice, foxes, monkeys of two sorts and 
porcupines, Lizards of many kinds, and serpents innu- 
merable. ; h 


U 


1 85 


A friebd of mine had one brought to him by fire or six 
men, which was nineteen feet long; and I have seen a 
kind of only four inches in length. The most dangerous 
are the cobra-copelli, and whip-thong snake, which ge- 
nerally kill in half an hour, and often in five minutes. 


The people are much below the accounts generally 
given of them to the public. Some authors, who have 
selected scraps from the shasters, which inculcate very 
sublime benevolence, have set this down as the character 
of the people; whilst, on the contrary, they are very 
avaricious and deceitful; and cruelty to animals, and to 
each other, is a too common evil, They have but few 
learned men among them; the rest are extremely igno- 
rant. They know nothing of geography or astronomy, 
but are much addicted to astrology, casting nativities, 
and observing lucky and unlucky days which fills them 
with imaginary troubles continually. Should the gospel 
be successful, it will be the grand antidote against these 
superstitions, and [ have great hope that it will, 


The cow here is held in very great respect, because a 
very useful creature.“ The water and the sun also are 
venerated for their usefulness to man. Of the four custs, 
or tribes, into which the Hindoos were divided, only two 
remain—the Brahman and the Sooder; the Ketra and 


— 


— — 


It is recorded in the SuAs rn, that the eternal one said to BIsU oo, 
« The Ghoij (or cow) shall be deemed sacred and holy; for it shall yield a 
new and delectable food, and ease the delinquent Debtah of part of the la- 
bour to which I have doomed them. And they shall not eat of the Ghoij, 
nor of the flesh of any of the mortal bodies which I shall prepare for their 
| habitation ; whether it creepeth on the earth, or swimeth on the water, or 
flyeth in the air; for their fruit shall be the milk of the Ghoij, and the 
fruits of the earth, | 
S070 Holwell, Vol. II. p. 51. 


* 


143 N 


Bice having been extinet ever sinee the Kaly Joug, or 

present age began, which was nearly as long back as 

the time of the creation of the world, according to the 

Mosaic account. 1 . 
—— 


Mr. CAREY to Mr. YATES, Leicester. 


| March 16. 

I 8T1LL retain a deep sense of that kind friendship 
which subsisted between us, and trust that it will never be 
worn off from my heart. The affection of christians is by 
far the noblest and most permanent of any: and, I doubt 
not, but the possession of that society in heaven, which we 
begun to enjoy upon earth, will be one part of our eternal 
happiness. Since we have been here we have had sore 
afflictions. Peter's removal was a very heavy stroke. 


We met with great difficulty in getting him buried, 


through the superstitions of the people, who will never 
touch a dead body, unless it be one of their own relations, 
which the Musselmans do; but even this is refused by 
the Hindoos. These burn their dead, if they can afford 
it; and, if not, they lie on the ground, or in the water: 
for when a Hindoo is supposed to be near death, he de- 


sires, and is accordingly carried to a river's side. If near, 


or if he can afford it, to the Ganges, which is accounted 
holy; and, if distant or poor, he is carried to some 
other river. There they form a small house, and attend 
him Ul] he dies, and either burn, or leave the body on the 
spot.“ If they die at a distance, they are carried by 


2 


* The people of rank, and those of higher cast, burn their dead, and 
throw sone inceuse into/the pile. Some throw the bodies of their friends 
into the Ganges, while others expose them in the highways, as a prey to 
vultures and wild beast. There is one cast in the kingdom of Bengal, who 
barharously es pose their sick by the river's side to die there. They even 
sometimes choak them with mud, when they think them past hopes of reco. 
very. They defend this inhuman custom by say ing, that liſe is not an ade- 
quate recompence for the tortures of a lingering disc ase. 

a Low's History, Vol. I. Introd. p. xxxi. 

1 2 


144 


some persons (who, I believe, are their relations) to the 
river, and leſt there; but no one will ever toueh the bed- 

stead, or bamboos, on which the dead were brought. 

| From this superstitious practice our difficulties arose; 

| but under all, myself and Mrs. C. were greatly supported. 


= I have the greatest reason to mourn over the leanness 

| of my own soul, and to long for spiritual society, which 

[ enjoy but seldom. I go out every Lord's-day to preach 

to the natives, and have frequent opportunities of dis- 

coursjng with them in the week; but though they are 

truly ashamed of their own vanities, yet religion is so 

light a thing with the generality of them, and they are 

1 so much attached to the world, that I cannot say they 

4 are turned unto God; yet I believe they only love idola- 
"TH try on account of its feasts and holidays. 


A bible is the great thing that is wanted by us. As to 
worldly matters, we get every thing here that we desire. 
The country is pleasant; and should God at last succeed 
our labours, it will make it a paradise to us indeed. 


W. C. 
Mr. CAREY to Mr. PROWITT, Leicester. 


| 5 March 17. 
You have been often upon my thoughts since my 


leaving England, not only on account of the friendship 
which you unalterably shewed towards me ; but also on 
account of the solicitude which I have to hear that all my 
former friends at Leicester walk in the truth,” I have 
seen some of them put on the harness, and I have great 


145 


joy on that account ; but oh that I may have the conso- 
lation of knowing. that they continue to wear it, fighting 
the battles of the Lord, and finally put it off triumphantly. 


I never expect to see you, or any of my friends at 
Leicester, more in this world; but I am desirous of pre- 
senting some of them, and among others yourself, before 
the throne of God at last, with, © Behold me, and the 
children whom thou hast graciously given me.” On this 
account I cannot help being still jealous over you with a 
godly jealously, that I may present you as a chaste virgin 
to Christ; for I consider you still as in a world of snares, 
and temptations; and I cannot think any man invulnera- 
ble whilst iu this world. Be exceedingly watchful, there- 
fore, my friend, against all those doctrines which in 
their tendency oppose that practical precept : Be not con- 
formed to this world; but be ye transformed, to that which 
is above—and this also, Walk as children of the light.” 


Respecting myself, I could not wish to be better pro- 
vided for than [ am in temporal things, and I could not 
easily have a more eligible situation for the mission.— 
Should my labours be blessed, I shall have opportunity of 
putting those who lost cast into a way of livelihood, 
which will obviate one very great difficulty; for if any 
one lose cast, he and his whole family are for ever dis- 
carded ſrom all their former friends, and become out- 
casts from society. | . 


\ 


„ 


Mr. CAREY to the SOCIETT. 


My var Dzar BrETHREN, March 18. 1795 
HEN I wrote to you, January 6, I hinted my 
intention of writing again by the last ships of the season, 


which ee 1 now embrace. ö 


We were much discouraged at hearing nothing from 
you; but now our hopes are raised, by hearing that-two 
boxes are arrived at Calcutta for us, in which we hope to 
find some European letters. Mr. S. has advised us of 
them, and that an investment is come for us. I sincere- 
ly thank the society for their care respecting us, and from 
this instance of your attention to our temporal welfare, 
infer, that our spiritual-concerns are not forgotton by you, 


I am not able to send you the tidings that I desire 
namely, of the conversion of the natives; yet it must af- 


ford you pleasure to hear that we are employed more ac- 


tively in our work than heretofore. Having preached, or 
rather converse( with them statedly, I have met with 
greater encouragement than T expected. I have generally 
aimed at convincing them that they are sinners, and that 
God is strictly just, and will not allow of iniquity ; and 
have enquired, if this be so, what will become of you? 
They universally allow that the good will go to heaven, 
and the wicked to hell; but their ideas are so confused, 


that they have no settled notion of either. I have met with 


some (a pretty large congregalion) in this neighbourhood, 
who had, as they said, never before heard that the soul 
would survive the body, and seemed much struck when! 


147 bo 


told them that their souls would live after death.“ 
Others believe the transmigration of the soul through 
all che different species of animals, and that then it 
will again animate a human body; after which, if 
righteous, it will go to heaven; if not, it must go through 
a second course of transmigration, and this is their hell. 
One Lord's-day, twenty-six persons came to my house 
for instruction in the ways of the Lord. They being 
seated, I discoursed some time, declariug the sinfuluess 
of man—the righteousness of God, Who can neither 
do nor allow of evil—the certainty of the righteous 
going to heaven, and the wicked to hell. I then asked 
them, if this be true, how can a sinful man be saved? To 
which they could give no reply. Then I preached unto 
them Jesus: I told them of his appointment and incarna- 
tion, and of his being the surety of sinners: 1declared the 


* 


== = —————— 
In the Bedang Shaster, NA Rub, or Reason, is instructed by BIM 


na, the wisdom of the divinity. The following questions and answers re- 
— zpect the human soul. | 


i 


Narvo. 

c- i | 

What dost thau mean, oh Father, by intellect ? 
Or hy 

BriMHA. 
th 
iy It is a portion of the GREAT sour of the universe, breathed into all 
creatures to animate them for a certain time. 

E 


What becomes of it after death? 


BRIMHA. 


It animates other bodies, or returns, like a drop, into that unbounded 
ocean from whence it arose. 


Govrau, the author of the Neadirsen Shaster, eupposes chat the soul 
after death assumes a body of fire, air, and akash; unless in this carnal body 
it has been purified by virtue and piety, that it retains no selfish inclination. 


In that case it is absorbed into the great soul of nature, never more to reani- 
mate flesh, 


Dow's Hist. p. p. 40. and 56, 


148 

freeness of the gospel, and the necessity of faith and ho- 
liess. One of them said, I suppose, sir, those who go 
to hell will be used like the people in Dinagepore jail.“ 
No, (said I) in prison the body only can be aMlicted, but 
30 hell, the soul—a person may escape from prison, but 
not from hell; and if any one dies in prison, there is an 
end to his imprisonment; but in hell they shall never die. 
ere God's wrath will be poured upon them for ever, 
and they must dwell in endless fire. Another enquired, 
«* Bat sir, what is sin, and what is holiness?” I then 
tried to convince them that there were sins of the heart, 
the tongue, and the life; but that the heart was the ſoun- 
tain of all- that holiness was just the reverse to sin, and 
that all the offerings made to mabomet's relations, or to 
hindoo gods, were no part of holiness; but on the con- 
trary, very great sins. | have also constantly enquired, 
whether any of their books can tell how God can be just 
and the justifier of a sinner? And this leads me to speak 
to them of the way of salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ: 
but no one can conceive how little they think of lying, 
cheating, and the like, and what low thoughts they have 
of God and religion : nor can the force of our Lord's ob- 
servation, After these things do the Gentiles scek, be 
felt, unless by those who. how some actual acquaintance 
with Gentiles. 


I have been prosecuting the translation of the Bible; 
and having Moonshee with me, have greater opportuni— 
ties for that work than Mr. Thomas. We have gone 
through Genesis, and the first twenty chapters of Exodus. 
] have endeavoured to compare the different versions that 
] have, and render it as near as | could. In proper names 
| have retained the Hebrew pronunciation, being much 
belter known here than the English. Thus to the Hebre, 
?greeable to the universal pronunciation of the east, | have 
given the sound of /; and to 1 the sound of w. These 


* 


hat 
nes 
ch 
ew, 
ave 
dE 


149 


are the sounds of the corresponding letters in Persian and 
Arabic. Instead of Jehovah, they pronounce Vabooa; 
Joseph, Yussuff; Jacob, Yacoob, &. I have also called 
Egypt, Mesr, this being its eastern name. We have many 
Persian words in use in Bengal, and some Bengalee much 
like Hebrew; as, shems, the sun; adam, a man; cobur a 
grave; æoban, a priest ; and many others. 


1 


My warmest christian love to all ministers and church- 
es, and all christians of my acquaintance accompanies 
this, 


I am affectionately yours, 
| N W. A. 


— . — 
YHE SUCTETY to Brethren THOM AS and CARET. 


Dzan BartTaunEN, Birmingham, Sept. 16. 1793. 
We received your welcome letters, and rejoice that 


| you are preserved in health, and are in pursuit of your 


great work, We are encouraged to hope for a journal 
from brother Carey, and were rather disappointed at not 
receiving it; but rejoice to hear from you all. Etre now 


| many letters from us must have reached you. It affords 


us pleasure that you labour to preach the gospel statedly 


| every Lord's-day : we hope this may not be omitted even 


when you are engaged in business; and at other seasons 


| of the year we suppose you will find other occasions, as 
| vell as the Lord's-day. 


We could wish you. would keep a paper by you, 
whereon you might begin to write long before you expect 


150 

| to hates opportunity of sending, and tlien may speedily 
conelude it, when you find any ship is returning io Eu- 
rope. We would not willingly omit gratifying you by in. 
formation from Englaud; but you must be aware that 
news from you is peculiarly interesting to us, and must 
tend above any thing to keep alive the attention of out 
friends to the propagation of the gospel. Success you 
cannot command, and the harvest expected to arise from 
evangelical seed, will be sufficient to repay the labourer 
for Lt waiting; but we shall be glad of such informa- 
tion from time to time, as shall enable us to prove that 
you are labouring and sowing. God, in due time, will 
give the increase; or, if the heathen be not yet gathered, 
they will be approved in his sight, who endeavoured to 
bring them in. ' 


You know already that we have resolved upon a mis- 
Sion to Africa: and we are met this day at Birmingham, 
to take leave of our brethren, who will sail immediately 
for Sierra Leone. You will unite with us in prayer for 
a \blessing on this new attempt. 6 


The independent brethren held a meeting at Birming- 
ham last week, and will have a general meelingin Londen 
a few days hence, to consult on a mission to the South sea 
Islands, or some other parts of the heathen world. At their 
desire, brother Fuller being at Birmingham, attended 
the meeting. After hearing brother Carey's last letter, 
they wrote as follows Mr. F. is desired when he writes 
to Mr. Carey and Mr. Thomas, to inform them, that 
being present at a meeting of the Warwickshire association 
of independent ministers, and having read Mr. Carey's 
1ast letter to them, they desired him to present their chris- 
tian love to them both, assuring them that they bear them 
in their minds before, God, and earnestly desire their 


success.“ „ 


t OB EEO TY 


131 | | 
You will be affected with a mixture of joy and grief- 
at hearing that three of our most respectable aged mi- 
nisters, have very lately finished their course with joy: 


Mr. CLARKE of Exeter, Dr. STENNETT,, and Mr. 
BEgDDOME, 


We. anticipate the Flamen of hearing that the natives | 
of Bengal, can read the scriptures in their own tongue; 
but though we wisb you to labour in translating, we 
would not advise you to be too hasty in printing. As you 
proceed, you will perceive many errors in your early pro- 


ductions. Translate in interleaved hooks, which, may 
admit of corrections. 


When many people here hesitated on your engagement 
in business, Mr. N. observed in a letter to one of us“ As 
to the snares of business, it seems to depend chiefly on the 
slale of the heart: if that be fired with a zeal for God, 
and love to souls, such attention to business as cireum- 


stances require will not hurt it. It is one of the first 


concerns of the Moravian missionaries (who, [ think, are 
excellent patterns for others) to find business or work 
wherever they go; partly that they may maintain them- | 
selves, and partly to set an example of industry to the 

heathen, But then, they never /ay up; they live upon a 
common stock, and impart what they can spare to the 
necessitous. If your brethren can act upon this plan, busi- 
ness will not hurt them.” We did not suggest any thing of 
this sort to you, because. we wished every thing you did 
iu this way might be done freely. It ee us great 
satisfaction that you have conceived a desigu of lay ing out 
your money in such a work as establishing achools, and 
translating the bible. The latter, however "wal be a great 
undertaking, and when it is proper to print i it, you m"_ 


Xe 


152 
not, even if you can afford it, deny us the pleasure of par- 
ticipating. with you in the expence. The public is 4 
rous; and what should we do with our _— but Rr 
priate it to the service of our God. | 


At the same time we would propose it to your considera- 
tion, whether it is best in prosecuting your translation, to 
confine yourselves exactly to the order of books in our 
bibles ; that is lo say, will it not be an advantage to be able 
to read to any of your converts, the psalms, or the propecy 
of Isaiah, and one or more of the gospels and epistles, be- 
fore you have been able to come at them by going regular- 
ly through Leviticus, Numbers, Ezekiel, &c? 


Let us further suggest, if 1 it will not be worth while, 


in the interim, previous to your compleating this great 


work, to print some little abstract of seripture history, and 
doctrine? It has been proposed by some of our brethren, 
to have some small publications of this kind drawn up 
for the aid of the Africans missionaries, which may now 
be printed in English, and pretty soon translated into 
some African language, and printed ou oppobite pages in 
English and in that N 


If any thing of this kind is dove, we will send you a | 


specimen, * not as confining you to the use of that, but a 
a sample of what we mean. Dear brethren, farewell: 


Grace be with vou! We remain, &c. 


FR 4 1 — 


4 
ͤ— 


* Such a specimen has been published 5 the eiern. e the title of 
CnnISsTIAN InsTRUCTIONS. | 


* 


A — a wy QN a Ru} — NS a wes 


orca 
Putending the Asvirtance of the Society, 


| For the encouragement of | 
V ILLAGE PREACHING IN ENGLAND. 


Ir has been . objected to he 8 we are scek- 
ing the good of heathens abroad, we are not sufficiently 
attentive to a kind of characters at home, who, though 
they sustain the christian name, yet are heathens in re- 
ality, nearly as much as the inhabitants of India or Africa, 
We cannot admit that this objection applies with any jus- 
tice against a foreign mission; and we could say in truth, 
that since this undertaking has been on foot, there has 
been more of a spirit for carrying the gospel into the 
dark corners of our own land, than there was before. Thus 
much however must be acknowledged; —there has not 
been so much attempted in this way as might be; and the 
design of this proposal is to stimulate those, whd have 


done a little, to increase their labours. 


That which is bere called village preaching, (this be- 
ing the name under which it generally passes) is not in- 
tended to be conſined to villages in distinetion from large 
towns; but rather to extend to any or all places, where 
the people are destitute of wed we account evangelical 
preaching. 


Village preaching must be attended to by ministers 
who are either itinerant or stationary. The former ap- 


154 


pears to us uot so eligible in our connection, not being s0 
congenial to the mode of church government, which we 
approve and practise, as the latter. As the order of all 
our churches is congregational ; and as every congrega- 
tion endeavours to obtain a settled pastor, it becomes a 
necessary consequence, that the most interesting and 
zealous ministers are engaged as soon as they are known, 
They are certain to be plied wich solicitations to setlle: 
nor is it to be supposed that they will be long unsettled. 


It is therefore proposed that our attention be turned to 
stationary ministers. 0 
First: There is a number of worthy characters who 
would gladly go and preach the gospel in the villages, 
five, six, or seven miles round their places of residence, 
on a week or a Lord's- day evening; but they cannot al. 
ford to be at the expence: and neither their friends at 
home, nor those amongst whom they labour abroad, may 
be able to bear it for them. Let it then be one object of 
the Society to select ministers of this description, whose 
turn of mind shall be favourable to the work, and recom- 
mend them to go out into the villages around them, 
if possible, on a Lord's-day evening; or, if that cannat 
be, on the evening of a week day, or both; and pay 
their expences, with something * the wear of en, 


&e. 


| Secondly : of chose ministers who may be thus em- 
ployed by the Society, some will probably be found who 
are more diligent, and successful than others; or whose 


talents and turn of mind are most fitted for the work ot 


Introducing the gospel in piaces where it has not been 
preached, Let the Society then observe such characiers, 
and enable them to enlarge their sphere of action. Let 


— ay IA — — = ©& aa oy 


a+ kd of 


135 


it be recommended to them not only to go out on Lord's- 


day evenings near home, but on week days to contrive 
as often as they can to go a circuit of thirty or forty 
miles, round the place of their residence; not to pay 
visits where there are stated congregations, | but to endea- 
vour to introduce the gospel into places where lt is un- 
known. Such ministers might not only have their jour- 
neying expences borne, but be allowed for their time 
and labour. | 


— 


Thirdly: There are many large towns where the 
gospel of Christ. is almost, if not altogether unknown. 
Let four 'or five ministers then, who may reside within 
twenty or thirty miles of the place, establish a week-day 
evening lecture there; suppose once in a fortnight, and 
a it in their turn; and let the Society bear their 
journeying ex pences. And in case no person in such town 
would open a house, or out-house, convenient for the 


purpose, let a place be rented at two or three pounds a 2 


year, for a year or two, till trial shall be made, and leti it 
be paid by the Society. 


Lastly : There are in most of our churches, characters 
possessed of wisdom and respectability in their own neigh- 
bourhoods ; who, though not adapted to the public work 
of the ministry, might nevertheless in their own, or in a 


neighbouring village, expound the scriptures to such as 


chused to meet together, visit the afflicted, and pray and 


converse with them on the great concerns of their souls 


salvation. Such a conduct has been pursued, and that to 
advantage, in some places: and it seems, not only calcu- 
lated to diffuse the knowledge of God, but to draw forth 
Such gifts into exereise as may prove useful in the churches, 
In some instances of this kind there might be no expence 
attending it, so as to need the assistance of the Society; 


TG - wy . - 3 
o r gs, + NG * b 8 33 6 
SOOT HC NES - 


156 


but in others there might: as in case of a poor brother, 
who might be a suitable person for such engagements, 
while the circumstances of his family might render it 
improper for him to lose his time. 


Ik the general principle of the W plan sbould 
meet with the approbation of the body of the subscribers, 
particular regulations might afterwards be framed in order 
to reduce it to practice: mean while the committee will 


be obliged by any objections or improvements that * 
be communicated upon tlie subject. | 


* 


14 


End of No. II. 


' PERIODICAL 


„% T0 Thy © © . 


Baptist M issionary Society. 


No. III. 


EXTRACTS from Mr. CAREY's JOURNAL, © 


SID ©.” 


| Ox Thurſday, June 13, 1793, they embarked; when 
he begins his Diary with expreſfing his admiration of the 
divine wiſdom and goodneſs, in over-ruling his former diſ- 
appointments ſo as to prove the occaſion of his going out 
in a manner much more to his ſatis faction. This,“ ſays 
he, “was a day of joy to my ſoul: I was returned that 1 
e might take all my family with me, and enjoy all the 
«« bleflings I had ſurrendered up to God. This is an Ebe- 
* nezer which I raiſe to God, and hope to be ſtrengthened * 
« whenever I reflect upon it x. 


y 7 


* As there are many things in the Journal which have been communi- 
cated to the public in the preceding numbers, and much of an experimental 
nature, the publication of which we can hardly ſuppoſe would meet the 
feelings of the writer, we have conſiderably abridged the original, ſupply- 
ing ſuch omiſſions as were thought proper, either by references to the former 
numbers, or by a brief ſxetch of the proceedings of our brethren, in the 


mY 


= d 35 CH : 


16. r A little ce from my ſickneſs, 
met for prayer and exhortation in my cabin: had a dif. 
pute with a French deiſt. 


17. Nothing of moment occurred the paſt week : we 
meet every A ea and en for family prayer. 


23. Lord's-day. Had two public meetings. Mr, 
THoMAs and I preached once each. In the morning we 


had but one perſon more than our own family; in the af. 


ternoon three, the ſurged and two paſſengers, God grant 
it may be uſeful. 


— 
* 


25. Fell in with the ee n. and * 
paſſed the iſland of Madeira. 


28. Yeſterday paſſed Palma, one of the Canaries, 
Saw Gomara and Fero; but by reaſon of ſtrong ſquall 
could not ſee Tenerife. 


Have begun to write Bengalee. My mind tranquil and 


ſerehe: 1 have of late found it more than ordinarily im- 
preſſed. with the importance of the work upon which! 
am going: God grant I may feel this more and more! 


29. This afternoon, about three o'clock, paſſed the 


tropic of Cancer: the heat very moderate, as it has been 


form of a narrative; judging that it would be tedious to the reader to putfue 
a long detail of their voyage, and the various difficulties they had to er- 
counter on their firſt landing, whilſt brother CAx Rx V was chiefly employed 

in learning the language, and both of them for a long time perplexed in de- 
termining upon the moſt ſuitable ſituation, and the beſt manner of purſuing 
their important work. On theſe heads let it ſuffice our friends at large to 


be aſſured by. the Committee, that his conduct affords us the higheſt ſatis 


faction; and whilſt the various difficulties he had to encounter ſerved in the 


iſſue to render the divine interpoſition in favor of our brethren more cot- 
ſpicuous, we have the fulleſt confidence that they have followed the evident 


leadings of Providence, in occupying their preſent ſtation. 


«a 


alls 


a h 


all the voyage. The thermometer has never been higher 
than 72%. I find ſome delight in preparing for my labors 
among the heathen by. writing the Bengalee, only, how- 
ever, becauſe it relates to my great work, | | 


30. Lord's-day. A pleaſant and e day: our 
congregation compoſed of ten perſons. 


July 7. Another pleaſant and profitable Lord's-day; 
our congregation increaſed with 'one. Had much ſweet 
enjoyment with God. | off ei w s 


10—21, Much detained by . winds. 1 was 
yery ill, owing to a bilious complaint and en per- 
ſpiration. * the 21ſt . the line. = 


Auguſt 2. * * night 1 the tropic of Capricorn. 
The laſt fortnight has been filled up with various exerciſes 
of mind. I have had ſome ſeaſons of ſacred enjoyment, and 
feel my heart ſet upon the great work on which I am 
going; but at other times I am quite dejected, from ſeeing 
the impenetrability of the hearts of thoſe that are with us: 
they hear us preach on the Lord's-day, but we are forced 
to witneſs their diſregard for God all the week. O may 
God give us greater ſucceſs among the heathen! I am 
very deſirous that my children may ,purſue the ſame work. 
May God give them grace to fit them for it! 


20. We are off the Cape of Good Hope. We expect- 
ed to have gone in there, on which account I had written 
to friends in England ſometime ſince; but now, having 
ſome hope of reaching Bengal before the monſoon breaks 
up, we paſs by. I have ſome reaſon to regret this, as I 
hoped to have perſuaded one of the miniſters there to en- 
gage in a corgeſpondence with England: blt the Lord 
is wiſe, ; 

Ken 


00 1 


1 hive" of late e Felt! ſome very lively deſires after the 
ſucceſs of our ' undertaking. If any thing engages my 
heart in prayer to God, it is that the heathen may be con- 
verted, and that the Society, which bas ſo generouſly ex- 
erted itſelf, may be encouraged and W l to go on with 
greater vigor. 


My wife, through mercy, is well ſatisfied with our un- 
dertaking; and we are all now in remarkably good health. 
Our courſe was by the iſlands of Trinidada, Saxenburgh, and 
IG de ins to this Place. 


25. n, Had muck enjoyment in ble! wor- 
ſhip to-day; but about half paſt one on Monday morning 
was awakened by the violent motion of the ſhip; once 
I thought ſhe muſt have gone 70 but e _—_ all 

were preſerved#, 


Nov. 9. For near a month paſt we have been within 


two hundred-miles of Bengal; but the violence of the cur: 
rents ſet us back when we were got to the very door, | 
hope I have learned the neceſlity of beating up againſt 
wind and tide when there is occaſion, as we have done it 
our voyage. We have had our port in view all along, 
and there has been every attention paid to aſcertain out 
ſituation by ſolar and lunar obſervations : no opportunity 
which occurred has been neglected. O that I were but 
as attentive to the evidence of my ſtate, as they to their 
ſituation ! A ſhip fails within ſix points of the wind, and 
if the wind ſhift a point the advantage is immediately 
taken: now though this is tireſome work, and (eſpe- 
cially if a current ſet againſt us) we ſcarcely make any 
way; nay, ſometimes, in fpite of all that we carr do, we 
go backwards inſtead of forwards, yet it is abſolutely ne- 


s Sec Periodical Accounts, No. I. p. 61. 


1 Þ 


ſary to keep working up, if ever we mean to arrive at 
zur port: ſo. in the chriſtian life, we have often to work 
Iagainſt wind and current, but we muſt do it if ever we ex- 
3 pect to make our port. 


F 8 was the fr tine we es an interview 18 the 
Hindoos: two boats came to ſell us fiſh; and Mr. 
THOMAS aſked the man in one of them whether they had 
Jay ſhaſters? Their anſwer was, „We are poor men 
W thoſe who have many cowries * (7. e. who are rich) read 
the ſhaſters ; but we do not know them.” I like their ap- 
pearance much; they ſeem to be intelligent perſons, 
W though of the loweft caſt; and were very attentive to 
whatever was ſaid to them. O may my heart be prepar- 
ed for our work, and the kingdom of Chriſt be ſet up 
among the Hindoos | We intend going on ſhote on 
Monday. + 


[On our brethrens' landing they were for ſome time 
© unſettled reſpecting the ſtation in which they ſhould fix 
themſelves, and brother CAREY in particular (to whom 
"ft the cauntry was altogether new) underwent various out- 
in ward trials, and much inward dejection; but ſtill he was 
8 upheld by faith in God. He ſpeaks eſpecially at one time 
ut (Jan. 17, 1794) of a pleaſant view he had of © the all-ſuf- 
ity hciency of God, and the ſtability of his promiſes, which re- 
ut lieved his mind greatly. As he walked home in the night 
eit he was enabled to roll his ſoul and all his cares on: God, 
ind praying to be directed into the * waiting for Chr 1.“ 


* A ſmall ſea-ſhell, whe} is current in Todla as money. They are 
dug out of the ground in the Maldives, and ſome parts of America. On 


the coaſt of 7 they are called Woman, and in America rox c x- 
LAINES, 


ounts, No. I. 


4 

” 

" 
A 
s 
= 
8 
45 
3 


F For their firſt interview with the Hindoos on ſhore, fee Periodical Ac- 


k 1621 
ec What a mercy is it,” ſaid he, © to have a God; ; and hoy! 


miſerable muſt they be who have no ede Bi of a keen la 
of grace, or value for it!!!) | bd 
ö 4 OY ; for 

Jan. 19, 1794. This day, as every Lord's-day fine h 
we have been jn the country, we went among the native, lt 
For the three laſt Lord's-days we have diſcourſed to a pretty MM, «1: 
large congregation at denicktullo bazar, or market; for AK © 
there is juſt the ſame buſineſs done here on that day as oe 
another. Our congregations have chiefly conſiſted of ma if 
hometans, and have increaſed every Lord's-day : they wen a 
very inquiſitive, and we have addreſſed them upon the ſub. No 


ject of the goſpel with the re g and in the ol you 
ou manner : | | 


A burial Ss with a conſecrated ooh; where oft E 
ings are daily made to the ſpirit of the departed perſon, vu 
near ; ſome enquiries about the reaſon of their offering 


were made, which led on to queſtions on their part; and 2 
then the Goſpel and the Koran inſenſibly became the ſubjech Vit. 
of converſation. They alledged the divine original of the ene 
koran; we enquired, Have you ever ſeen or read it? The el 
univerſal anſwer was, © No.” But to-day a man came in 
who pretended he had ſeen it. We aſked him if he knew mor 
the words with which every chapter begun *? He faid, 

« No; for it was written in Arabic, and no one could un- J 
derſtand it.” The queſtion now was, How then can you 800 
obey it; and wherefore are ye mahomedans ? To this the) 
could not reply. They ſaid (and ſo ſays the Koran) that the H! 
Koran was ſent to confirm the words of ſcripture. We hat 
inſiſted that the Bible ſaid, Whoſoever ſhall add to the word git 
of God, or diminiſh from it, ſhall be under the curſe . 
God ; but the Koran was written after the Bible, and pre A 
| lay, 


Every chapter in he koran begins with, „In the name of God, gra 
cious and merciful.” | 


1 10 } 


ends to divine authority; therefore if the goſpel be true, 
. bomet muſt be accurſed, and the Koran of no authority; 
aa if the Bible be not true, neither can the Koran be true, 
or that, you ſay, was written to confirm our ſcriptures. 
They anſwered, that the Jews and Chriſtians had corrupt- 
ache Bible, which was the reaſon why God made the re- 
elation by Mahomet. We anſwered, Then how could the 
WK oran come to confirm it? If it was corrupted, it needed 
erection, and not confirmation. Being driven to their laſt 
ift, they ſaid that Mabomet was the friend of God; but 
an (by whom they meant Feſus) was the Spirit of God. 


ou think higheſt ; your friend, or your ſoul or ſpirit?« All 
his they bore with great good temper ;. what effect it may 


Wave, time muſt determine. Many more things were ſaid 


but as night came on we left them. 


* 4 70 
and 21. This evening I had a very profitable converſation 
0 with Moonſbee about ſpiritual things, and I do hope he may 


oe day become a very uſeful and eminent man. I am fo 
ell able to underſtand him, and he me, that we are deter- 


ined to begin correcting the tranſlation of Geneſis to- 


morrow-w. , 
a 2 


aid 5 
. Jan. 22. Began the correction of Geneſis. I find a 
you eceſſity of explaining many expreflions, of which I had 
ber oe taken notice before. E. g. It is ſaid that God creat- 
the ed the heavens and the earth ;” after which it is remarked 
we hat © the earth was without form:“ this is not very intel- 
ron "Bible in Engliſh, and in Bengalee would be quite abſurd, 
ok ecauſe every thing muſt have ſome form or other; and if 
pre- It had not form, then it muſt neceſſarily be void, or empty; 


far it could not be filled, having no exiſtence. To this I 
ſay, that the chaos, or primitive earth, muſt have been a li- 
quid maſs, there not having been any ſeparation of land and 


o which Moonſbee ſhrewdly replied, Then which would 


Wo recommend the goſpel, and the way of life by Fe eſus Chrj "2 


e AS f : 2 
8 


4 7 > 8 M * 
3 Foro ge Sn $3. 


A 


after its kind, whoſe ſeed is in itſelf upon the earth,” 5 


ſeen, except the Engliſh, render “ graſs,” tender herb, An : 


I 164 J 


water; and chat the meaning is, that it had no ſettled fen 
but was fluctuating like the waves and tide in the ſea. Iti 

likewiſe ſaid, that God commanded the earth to produg 
graſs ; herb yielding ſeed, and the fruit-tree yielding fru 


graſs, I ſuppoſe, is meant vegetables in general; and wh 
follows is an enumeration of the two great diviſions of yi 
getables, viz. plants and trees. All the verſions I hay 


the expreſſion ©* whoſe ſeed is in itſelf,” relates to th 
power of propagating their ſpecies, 'that is inherent i 
vegetables, which cannot move from their places, nor fon 
a conjunction of male and female, which is neceſſary to th 
propagation of animals. | 


I have lately been full of perplexity about various tan ur 
poral concerns; but the ward of God is ſure, which abu 
dantly promiſes all I can want. I have met with heavy ii 
flictions; but in the mount the Lord is ſeen; I wiſh Ih 
but more of God in my ſoul, and felt more ſubmiſſion in oF 
heart to his will; this would raiſe me above every troubl; 
I feel happy in this, however, that'I am in my work, 
that is the work of God; the more I am employed in 
the more I find it a rich reward, 


1 find my heart ſometimes overwhelmed with diſcob 
ragements, but I feel What it is to have the teſtimony of 
good conſcience in the ſmalleſt matters. God can ſuppii n 
all my wants, ſpiritual and temporal. Why then is my ſol 
diſquieted within me? Things may turn out beyond nf 
expectations: every thing is known to God, and 60 
cares for the miſfiong O for contentment, delight in Gd 
and much of his fear before my eyes. Bleſſed be Gol, iff 
feel peace within, and rejoice in having undertaken tk 
work, and ſhall, I feel I ſhall do ſo, even if I ſhould lo 
my life in the undertaking. I anxiouſly deſire the tw 


3 
165 f 

ben 1 ſhall be ſo far acquainted wich che lnguage” as. to 

preach i in ir to theſe > ne 8 1 | 


26. Bee Found Aan ane in en 
EDwARDS's Sermon on the Juſtice of © God in the damnation 
of Jmners.” After this went to our congregation of natives 
again. They gave great attention, and all the muſſelmans 
preſent (except the keeper of the conſeerated place; and 
one or two fakirs) acknowledged that the offerings made 
co the peer, or ſoul of the dead man, whoſe tomb was con- 
W ſecrated, were made without any command, either in the 
Koran, or elſewhere. The perſon who acted as prieſt, or 
reeper of the place, when we told him that all the offer- 
Wings were made to his belly, went away confounded with 
the laughter of the people. Their inquiſitiveneſs and 
numbers increaſe, and one Hindoo appeared more than or- 
Weinarily anxious to know what was the right way. I wiſh 
that we may- ſee ſome good fruit of our labors, and doubt 
Wot but we ſhall ſoon have ſome I to kane in "elle 
Walvation' af God. oy | 


27. This day niſhed the ovirettivn of eh firſt ow 
' Wir of Geneſis, which Moonſbee ſays is rendered into very 
Wood Bengalee. Juſt as we had finiſhed it, a pundeet and; 
Nnother man from Nuddea came to ſee me. I ſhewed it to 
dem, and the pundeet ſeemed much pleaſed with the ac- 
ount of the creation; only they have an imaginary place 
dmewhere beneath the earth, which he thought ſhould 
ve been mentioned likewiſe, I obſerved that the earth 
as a planet ; and that the heavens and the earth included 
[| the material creation. There is a neceſſity of explain- 
g to them ſeveral circumſtances relative to geography 
Wd chronology; as they have many ſuperſtitious” opinions 
n theſe ſubjects, which are cloſely connected with their 
tem of idolatry. 
= 


departure on Monday to the intended place of out: reb 


| 166 2 


28. This evening, afent a day of dejection, had muck 
relief in reading over Mr. Fur LER's charge to us at Ly. 
cefler :* the affection there manifeſted almoſt overcam 
my ſpirits. O, I think, I am not only. ready to ſuffer any 
thing; but if I be offered upon the ſacrifice and ſervice of 
win therein. O what ne 


r= | The vleſing of divine 3 is 5 greats 
than we can conceive, unleſs we diſcourſe with thoſe who 
never. enjoyed it. This evening I was. converſing wit 
Momftre. about his firſt opinions concerning God, th 
told me that when he firſt became acquainted with a fey 
Engliſh words, God and Lord were ſome of the firſt: bu 
for ſome time he ſuppoſed Gd Almighty to be a female, ani 
God's wife. But his ideas of angels were much more con- 
ſiſtent than thoſe of our artiſts, - Soon after he became 2. 
quainted with Mr. THOMAs, he aſked an European gentle 
man, upon ſeeing a picture in which an angel was repre- 
ſented, © Sir, are angels women or birds? I ſee they han 
got feathers, therefore they muſt be birds; and then 
can ſee them, and catch them; now we think they ar da 
great powers, who can go any where in an inſtant, wit der 
out wings, or any ſuch helps.“ He is now much hurt # be 
ſeeing pretended pictures of God, or the Holy Spirit, with th 
wings like a dove: and many of thoſe repreſentations bf 
cuts, ſometimes put in the Bible, are to bim, as well i 
others, who are ſtill heathens, a great ſtumbling- block. * 


Feb. 5, 1794. Spent to-day in preparations for ol 


dence; was very weary, having walked in the ſun about 
ffteen or ſixteen miles; yet had the. ſatis faction of dk 
courſing with ſome money changers at: Calcutta, who coul 
ſpeak Engliſh, about the importance and abſolute neceſitf 


= Sce Periodical Accounts, No, I. p. 36. 


K A 


„„ faich in Can Ts T Iss. One of them was a very nr 


man, and tried much to entangle me with hard queſtions, 
but hn dh himfelf nonplus'd at laſt, he deſiſted, and went to 


his old occupation of money changing again. If once 


God is pleaſed, by his Holy Spirit, to oonvince them of fin, | 


they will find a Savior to be a bleffing indeed. But human 
nature is the very ſame all the world over; and all convic- 
tion is ſuperficial and tranſitory, except that which is pro- 
duced by the effectual working of eee 


3. Spent this day in removing our little iis, 
&c. to Baliagaut, where we go on board our boats. Next 
day proceeded on our courſe, through ſalt rivers, and a 
large lake. In the afternoon ſaw an offering to the god- 


4% of learning, i. e. of writing and reading. This idol 
| was placed under a ſhed, and all around her were placed 
large diſhes full of rice, fruits, &c. which the people had 


brought: the bfahman was employed in laying the whole 


in order, after which a little was diſtributed to the atten- 


dants, and the brahman had the reſt. The whole was at- 
tended with horrid muſic, and the next day the idol was to 
be thrown into the river. I felt very much concerned for 
theſe poor people, but could not ſpeak to them. 


J 


5. There not being ſufficient water -for us to go tho 


neareſt way, we were obliged to go through the Sunder- 


bunds, a very large impenetrable foreſt, extending many 
ſcores of miles, and entirely uninhabited by man; but in- 
terſected by large rivers, by which our boats paſſed. Theſe 
foreſts ſwarm with tygers, leopards, rhinoceroces, buffa- 
loes, deer, &c. Had ſome ſweet pleaſure in meditation 
here, but no one dares to go on ſhore, fo as to venture 
one hundred youu from the boat.“ 
2 2 


* & About two hundred and twenty miles from the ſea (but three hun- 
fred, reckoning the windings of the river) commences the head of the Delta 


30 


; 
1 
1 
| 
1 
3 


3 


— 
2 


© HE, 


mw 


\ 
: 


SR; 


2 2 5 


3 . II n a - — * 
. Pe DD” — 3 N I _ o _ o = - 
= - 7 ECT IO In * — 8 1 9 
oo T q 2 — K as - 4 A — _—_— 5 "So — 8 8 2 * 1 9 8 
i Aa, y * E 2 x 1 1 — —_ 22 = n 2 — — We 9 
76 fe - „ 6 A by 8 ren 22 15 = l > * . — SI — 
- q - - _ * *. a.» no - 2 8 as, 4 — - - p AS — — 5 b a 
a * N 5 ME” - * — — —_ — MA = i —_ — 8 2 — 
* 5 W D © a_ * 7 1 8 F- 4 S 2 — MCT > : — 
E * + - 4 Es vi Tout 7 x o — 22 2 1 - ? Tn bro & —_— CM. — L —-_- x ＋. 1 = — 3 = pag <p — - — I — 
- q — 7 7 5 * 2 — * — 2 . 2 - Go — 
A 8 * - A 2 7 52 : 4 | 
6 * - n = p — * — 
2 — * wane At tibia wa, — 2 —_ * _ _ — 
1 — . bs bs, * . od fo 


we ar ot 
3 


| ſpeftacle, a navigation of more than two hundred miles through a foreſ, 


\ 1 168 J 


6. Arcized, M's 8 8 a very 1 Wn: 
gentleman, who ſuperintends the ſalt-works, immediately 


of the Clnges; which is conſiderably mere than twice the "ire of that's NS" 
the Nile. That part of the Delta bordering on the ſea, is compoſed of f 01 
labyrinth of rivers and creeks, all of which are ſalt, except thoſe that᷑ im. he! 
mediately communicate with the principal arm of; the Ganges. This tract, Wi 
known by the name of the woods, or Sunderbunds, is in exfent equal to the 
principality of Wales; and is ſo completely enveloped in woods, and infeſtel 
with tygers, that if any attempts have ever been made to clear it (as is re 
ported), they have hitherto miſcarried, , Its numerous canals ars ſo diſpoſed, col 
as to form a complete inland navigation, throughout and acroſs the lower part 
of the Delta; without either the delay of going round the head of it, a 
the hazard of putting to ſea.” Here ſalt, in quantities equal to the whole 
conſumption of Bengal and its dependencies, is made and tranſported with 
equal facility; and- here alſo is found an inexhauſtible ſtore of - timber for 
boat builting. The. breadth of the lower part of this Delta is upwards d 
one hundred and eighty miles; to which, if we add that of the two branches 
of the river that bound it, we ſhall have about two hundred miles for the 
diftance to which, the Ganges Expands its KO, at its junction with the 


1 Major Rexnet. Memoir of a map of 1 lindoſtan, p. 339. 
ee There are two diſtinct paſſages through the Sunderbunds, the one namel 
the Southern or Sunderbund paſſage, the other the Baliagot paſſage, The 
firſt is the fartheſt about, and leads through the deepeſt and wideſt riren; 
and is of courſe the moſt expoſed during tempeſtuous weather. It opens into 
the Calcutta river, through the channel creek, about ſixty-five miles beloy 
the town, The Baliagot paſſage opens into a lake on the Eaſt fide of Cal- 
cutta z from whence, within a very few Jourts a ſmall canal has been cut 
to en * _ with the river, - : 


EY 
Lg 1 


cc Theſe mſgs e to the imagination, both a 6 nod a curiou 


Udivided into numberleſs iſlands,” by a continued labyrinth of channels, f 
various in.point'of width, that a veſſel has at one time her maſts almoſt en- 
tangled in the trees, and at another ſails uninterruptedly on a capacious rive, 
beautifully ſkirted with woods, and affording a viſta of many miles each 
way. The water is every where ſalt, and the whole extent of the forel 
abandoned to wild beaſts : ſo that the ſhore is ſeldom viſited but in caſes d 
neceſſity, except by the wood-cutters and ſalt- makers, whoſe dreadſd 
trade is exerciſed at the conſtant peril of their lives; for the tygers not only 
appear on the margin in queſt of prey, but often in the night-time ſwim d 
the boats that lie at anchor in the middle of the river.“ 

| this. 


— * : ” * - 


= 
* 4 


3 169 ] | 
invited me, and all my family, to take up our 3 at his 


fore, he inſiſts, on n fopplying ; all our wants while we TE 
r 1 | 


8. Went this morning to Haſmabad, where I ex- 
pected to have land. I bad the choice of the whole 
rd, country, and at laſt pitched upon a place at Collatullah, 


n which is a fine ſoil, and pleaſant ſituation, nearly oppoſite 


to the place where I now am, on the other fide of the river. 
everal villages are in the neighbourhood, and proviſions as 

cheap as any where in Bengal. The river Jubona, which 
i of B'S as large as the  Hoogly, at Calcutta, E us from 
che Deharta. 


2 


* March 1. After having been ale in x. butldia 
9, me an houſe, it heing almoſt finiſhed, I received a letter 

mis day inviting me to ſuperintend a manufactory at Mal- 
T4, 4 Tbis appearing to be a remarkable opening in Divine 
Providence for our comfortable ſupport, I accepted it; ſo 
chat we are ſtill unſettled, and I only wait for another letter 
from Malda, to ſet off this long journey of two hundred 
and fifty miles, with all my family. 21 


2-4. In my preſent ſtate of ſuſpense, my mind feels 
too vacant: and barren; though I feel great pleaſure in the 
hope that the miſſion will be abundantly forwarded by 


ſpeCtion ; while at the ſame time my family will be well 
ſupplied. Indeed I ſhould have no doubt reſpeRing provi- 


forel 

on even here; yet too much of my time muſt have been 
calf Wi neceſſarily employed in managing my little farm with my 
t o own hands: But I ſhall now be joined with my colleague 


again, and we ſhall engage in our work uffitedly. 


houſe, till I ſhall have. completed my own: with ſurpriſing . 
generoſity towards us, who were utter ſtrangers to him be- 


having a number of the natives under my immediate in- 


bs. "IF T4 


| 
f 
| 
i 
| 
| 
| 
i 
[ 


— 


* 

* 
= 2 22 > a4 
nA = coo rt 


— 


— => = SEE, 


NF — * 
"DINE = * I IEF . pn. os — —_— — oh 8 m = — pe c 25 
I" At - . ws — r — 5 2 2 K 
p _—_ _ —__— OO — zam _____ 7 ww. "oy 

2 * - - _ — a 2 2 "oy — 
wy „ _ ˙ R OI br eg = — <= — — — > — S 
-S- : — - 2 "> = wx e = — — —— —— x — 7. = 
: —_ — X — 2 = 
: 4 x 2 2 
— E. - 
— —— 4 Ate ens 


n 
g N * 
SEES 
n 


— — 
r 


——— — = , r — . 
J.. FEE. 


L — — — — 
9 * — K 


RE LES =_ 
— 


2 


PO 


zealous are idolaters, than many nominal chriſtians! | 


of Kreefdno, many of whom had travelled twenty or thiny i 


— —— ? ag. ee tear nn — — . 


— IEEE; 
2 — 
— — nnn ]—˖§Üͤ . LG 
* 


as it is in Jeſus, with a moſt friendly European, to whom 
1 am under great obligations. O that God would requits 


t 0 1 


" was: This being one of the Benyal holidays, in th 
afternoon a number of people, who had been to celebrat ff 
the obitdr or incarnation of Kreeſbno, and ſmeared ove 
their heads with red powder, returned, and played cher 
idolatrous tricks before the door. O how much mon 


ſuppoſe that not leſs than 10,000 people met at the temple if 


miles to wocſhip; and this is the cafe all over the country, 
Upon one of theſe holidays, many of the rich ſpend perhaps 
a lack or 100, ooo of rupees, and rather than labor on thoſ: 
days, they would undergo the greateſt diſtreſs; yea, thou) 
the moſt timid people on the earth at other times, they 
are now enthuſiaſtic, intrepid, and fearleſs, © 


20. Tode I was very much affected with ſome in- 
ſtances of true generoſity in Moonſbee, ſuch as I am fur: 
would have done honor to > the moſt eminent chriſtian in 
the world. 


21. I find the reviſal of the tranſlation of Genel 
both a pleaſing and profitable employment, and now begin 
to ſee, that the Bengalee is a language which is 18 00 
pious, and abounds with beauties. | 


23. Lord's-day. Enjoyed much happineſs in read- i 
ing to my family, and inſtructing them. Had much ple tc 
fare and a revival of ancient friendſhip in my ſou), by 
reading dear Mr. RyLanp's Circular Letter on zeal; 
but ſorely feel the loſs of thoſe public opportunities = 1 


1 enjoyed in England. f 


24. This evening was enabled to contend for the truth 


® Publiſhed by the Northampton Aſſociation, 1792. 


1 171 ] 


au bis 1 to me and my. an by un his 


ſoul e unto himſelf ! 


29. "Spent this day as 7 abbath through 3 3 


bor which, however, 1 have abuncant reaſon to be thankful. 


It has been a time of Tefreſhing indeed to me. O what 


Iss there in all this world worth living for but the preſence 


and ſervice of God. I feel a burning deſire that all the 


| world may know this God, and ſerve him. O how long 


will it be ere 1 ſhall know enough of the language of the 
country to preach Chriſt crucified to the natives. I bleſs 


| God I make ſome progreſs. 


April 6. Had ſome ſweetneſs e 3 in 
reading EDwARDs's Sermon, „The Moſt High, a pray- 
er-hearing God.“ What a ſpicit of genuine piety flows 
through all that great man's works. I hope I have 
caught a little freſh fire to-day ; but how needful. and de- 
firable is it that God ſhould conſtantly fan the heavenly 
flame. I need abundance of grace, in order to communi- 
cate divine things to others ; but to my comfort, God has 
ſaid, “ He that believeth on me, out of his belly, ſhall foto 
rivers of living water; no doubt meaning that faith is a 
communicative principle, and that true believers will as 
naturally ſpeak of the things of God, as a fountain will 
caſt forth ſtreams. I wiſh I could ſpeak fo as to be under- 
ſtood by the natives; I can ſay a little, but not ſufficient 
to anſwer the objections brought againſt the goſpel. 


8. A day of buſineſs, hurry, ſorrow, and dejection. 
L ſeem caſt out of the chriſtian world, and unable yet to 
ſpeak to the heathen to any advantage, while I am diſcou- 
raged by various diſappointments and diſtreſſes, and ſtill at 
a diſtance from my colleague, wanting ſome. friend to. ſtir 


me up, or encourage me in the things of God. I ſome- 
times feel rather diſheartened by the 2 of the Eu- 


. 

N 

bi 

N 
f 
; 
j 
[ 
| 
' 
: 
[ 


2 . — 
. ——— — 
MET IC IC - 2 


— 
S 


2 — . — = SS 
> - : - = 7 "= - 
— nf — === : — 


I 
3 _ 

— — - — * 7 

- Sew; 


— — 
——. 


P _ — 
— SIDE 2 3 
22 AC IS — — , = 3 
— == 
a . — 2 
uw _ — — N N 7 


— — — - L — 
1 5 — 
— * —= A J - 


* 


1 


ropeans, who all ſay that the converſion of the natives j 
impoſfible, and by the ſtupid ſuperſtition” of the nativg 
themſelves, In England I ſhould not be diſcouraged hy 


What infidels ſay, but here 1 regret the want of any faith 


ful brother to ſympathize Wich me, nor have I at preſent 
the ability to make the trial of preaching the goſpel 
All my hope is in God, and all my comfort ariſes from 
him; without his power no European could poſſibly be 
converted, and that can convert any Indian; and when] 
reflect that he ſtirred me up to the work, and wrought 
wonders to Prepare the way, I can hope in his Promiſes, 
and am encouraged and eee * 


This day the horrid "cult of felf- Mormenting. among 
the natives begun. A machine was conſtructed of Ban. 
boos, - perhaps above twenty feet high, from which they 
precipitate themſelves upon iran ſpikes, which run into 
their breaſts, or any other part. I did not know of this horrid 
tranſaction till it was over, and therefore had not reed 
nity of ſeeing it ; but the ſervants came and told us, and 
wal nt fon ſaw „ 


£2.13 


zi + ey Aden d was ; Eartied to a greater 
length than yeſterday. A number of people came near to 
our gate with drums and dancing; when prẽſently a man 
had two pieces of bamboo, of twenty feet long, and each 
as thick as a man's finger, theſe were paſſed through his 
fides, and held at each end by two men; while he danced 
backwards and forwards in a manner almoſt frantic, but 
ſeemingly inſenſible to pain. To prevent the violent heat 
arifing from the rubbing of the bamboos in the wounds, a man 
ſtood to throw water continually upon his ſides, This 
mad practice was continued for an hour at leaſt; and ſeve- 
ral others, with long ſpits run through their tongues, which 


they were continually drawing up and down, ſtbod dancing 


* 4 


7 8 1 


Sy bis bie, to the ſound of their horrid muſic. "This was 
ontinued through the whole „ Hes | 


10. Today the mode of their e 883 


wm as varied. A large pole was erected, and a bamboo fixed 


acroſs upon the top, and the poor wretches practiſed ſtwing- 


ing by hooks fixed in the back. I went out to ſee it; and a 


man, dreſſed in a blue cloth like a petticoat, ſuſpended about 


ede height of twenty feet, was ſwinging rapidly round; 


rreſently they ſtopped turning the machine, and aſked him 


; to come down, which he refuſed, and inſiſted upon being 


whirled round again. I ſuppoſe he was then ſuſpended for 


Whalf an hour, during which time his looks were perfectly 


placid and ſerene, and he rattled a few twigs tied up in a 
bunch: he then ſet his feet upon the top of three bamboos. 
When the cord was unlooſed, hedeſcended, with the hooks 
in his back, and came juſt before me, to ſhew me how 


chey were faſtened: when they were drawn out, a man 


placed his two knees againſt the wounds, and holding him 
over the breaſt, puſhed the wounds with his knees, in ſuch 
a manner as almoſt to diſlocate the ſhoulder-blades: a leaf 
or two being then applied to them. "The hooks were then 
fixed in another, who aſcended the ladder where the cord 
was faſtened, and he underwent the ſame operation. Thoſe 
who torment themſelves in any of theſe ways, reycat it an- 
nually at the ſame ſeaſon, i. e. on the three laſt days of their 
year, which are the only days on which theſe GA are 
performed. 


Theſe tortures are only practiſed by the loweſt caſts of 
the people; the brahmans, and caeſtoes, or writers, never 
practiſe it, The poor deluded creatures who undergo them 
| ſay, that SEEB, one of their deities, appears to them, com- 
forts them, and aſſures them that whatſoever they do, or 
luffer, for his ſake, will be abundantly recompenſed aſter 

A a | 


death. During theſe three days they faſt, and ſpend 


| "ROK their „ mute. 


FW feaſting ; this being the firſt day of their year. Nel ey d 


them in the ſanctuary. When I firſt left England, ny 
hope of the converſion of the heathen was very firang; 


retire to, like BRAINERD, for fear of tygers (no leſs than 


174 J 


time in parading the ftreets' in a frantic ene mk 
| 
; | oY | the 


{4 Fa" On this aa Bindoos BA a 5 of gladng ik 


ther they nor their cattte do any kind of work, but ſpenliif 
the time in ſinging and joy. Their horrid aol idolatrou 


tranſactions have made ſuch an impreſſion on my. mind off 117 


cannot, I think, be eaſily eradicated. Who would grudg 
to ſpend his life and his all, to deliver an otherwiſe amiatL 
people from the miſery and darkneſs of their pre 
"wretched ſtate! How ſhould we prize that goſpel whd 
has delivered us from hell, and our native country fru mp 
008 r re of Sata 's ** as thele] at 


. My foul 2 _ fainteth hs, God, hu the 
1 God, to ſee his glory and his beauty as J have ſen 


but among ſo many obſtacles it would utterly die away, Wi: : 


unleſs upheld by God; having nothing to cheriſh it, ub 


many things to obſtruct it for now a year and nineter 
days, which is the ſpace ſince I left my dear charge a 
Leiceſler. Since that time I have had hurrying up ano! 
down—a five months? impriſonment with carnal men a 
board the ſhip—fve more ſpent in learning the languagy 
my Moonſhee not underſtanding Engliſh ſufficiently 9 
interpret my preaching—my colleague ſeparated from m er 
long delays experienced reſpecting my expected ſettle od 
ment—few opportunities for ſocial worſhip--no woods to 


twenty men in the department of Dayhatta, where I am, 
have been carried away by them from the ſalt-works this 
ſeaſon)—no earthly thing to depend on. Well, I have 
0p, and his word is ſure; and though the ſuperſtitions 


; * 02 


the neathons, were 2 million times more deeply rooted, 
a the examples of Europeans a million ſtimes worſe, than 
| ey are—If I were deſerted by all, and perſecuted by. all; 
| t, my hope, fixed on that ſure word, will riſe ſuperion t ta 
obſtructions, and triumph over all trials. Gop's cauſe | 
triumph, and, I ſhall: come out * all i as gold 
ri ſied 1 in the fire. ws n en Sets 9 M3 pear: 


21, Had ſome holy pleaſure” in PSY my . 
ily to-day. Bleſſed be God, the tranſlation of the Bible 
vances: we now go through nearly à chapter euery day, 
| mparing it with all the verſions I have. I now hope 
at in a few weeks I ſhall be able to ſpeak, ſo. much of 
language as to begin to preach to the natives. 


22. The 1 of acquiring the language puts mY | 
e into. my ſoul... For a long time my mouth has been 


Wt now, I begin to be ſomething like a traveller who _ 
s been almoſt beat out in a violent ſtorm, and who, with | 
| his clothes, about him dripping wet, ſees the {kies begin 
clear: ſo I, with only the proſpect of a more pleaſant 
fon at hand, Ry" feel the TON of the preſent. | _ 
t veil 
23. With all the cares of f at its ſorroẽws, 1 
d nevertheleſs that a life of communion with God is fuf- 
ent to yield conſolation in the midſt of all, and even to 
oduce an holy joy in the ſoul which ſhall. make it tri- 
ph over all affliction. I have never yet repented of any 
rice that I n made for the ee , 
ch 
24, = the time Gon my — Fr to ſpeak ifor 
HRIST approaches, I find hope more ſtrongly operates; 
J feel like a long-confined priſoner, whoſe chains are 
docked off in order to his liberation. FO 


AAZ 


t, and my days have been beclouded with heavineſs z 


ee 10 1 


26. I ſpend ſome pleafant hours with "Mbriſke 
molt every day: 1 have much pleaſure in ſeeing him tw 
his back upon idolatry : I wiſh ſincerely that he had by 
little more of the zeal of the old chriſtians ; 'but'whilf 
rejoice in his judgment of divine things, I am grieved t 
his timorouſneſs and ſtrong attachment to his caſt, which) 
nevertheleſs looks upon as chains forged by the devilt 
haid the! Hindoos i in | lavery. 


a 4 
1 » - 
« 


Gon pelt lai pleaſure and affection in inftrultiy 
wy family, and have ſeen ſuch impreſſions er my 


eldeſt children as are matter of great encouragement! 
me. O that they N be followed up 12 N to gu 


purpoſe! F 


28. How much do I long for the arrival of e bi 
from Europe Surely I ſhall receive a large packet by the 
I want to hear of our ſociety, of the miniſters and —_ | 
and how my dear dear friends at Leicefler go on; whetk 
they have a miniſter—whether he be beloved, — 

ufeful, or not. O my friends, my dear friends, I longi 
all the communion with. you that our neee can alloy! 


May 1 1. This evening the bens were l 
ing out for the new moon. All the laſt month, whichik 
call the moon Ramazun, they have faſted all day long, i 
one of them ate any thing till the fun was ſet: but f 
moon ente in a time s ures of and; Joy” to mp * 


"May © 5. Th he . * had a: long conv 10 
with two or three Hindoos about the things of God. 

| firſt ſhewed them a tranſlation of the ten commandmeit 
with which they were much delighted; I tried then 
This is a time of general rejoicing to the followers of Mano 
every where: It is called TRE BAlzAu.“ See 9 Preſent Sd 
the Ottoman Empire. Chap. xv. 


1 


make them lend . — 
the ſecond commandment; and, as well as I could, endea- 
vored to tell them of the ſinful, helpleſs ſtate of man, and 
the willingneſs. of God to ſave, &c. But my. imperfect 
knowledge of the language, makes me liable to miſtake 


their RG * . ſpeak, and to be en 
by them. 


li 


23. At three o'clock. in the morning, ſet out for 
Malda; a journey of about three hundred miles, which 
was expected to take up about three weeks. 


| oh On the river Fubona, paſſed Baddareea. Ay 


25. Arrived at  Chandareea, on the river | Tamuty. 
Towards evening was ſurrounded by a body of the natives 
at this place. Had a little talk with a few of them; but 
was much at a,loſs for words; however, I find I begin to 
improve in the knowledge of the Hindoo language. * 


It is a . diſadvantage that two languages 


are ſpoken all oyer the oountry: The brahmans and coits, 
or caeſto, ſpeak Bengalee, and the common people Hin- 
doſtanee. I underſtand a little of both, and hope 0 be , 
maſter of both in time, 

26. This day kept ſabbath at Chandareea. I had a 
pleaſant day. In the morning and afternoon addrefled my 
family, and in the evening entered on my work of publiſh- 
ing the Word of God to the heathen. Though imperfe& 
in the knowiedge of the language, yet, with the help of 
MooxskEE, 1 converſed with two brahmans, in the preſence 
of about two hundred people, about the things of God. 


I had been to ſee a temple in which were the images of 
DuxKinRovy, the god of the woods, riding on a tyger; 


/ 


— . ̃ Te 


— , — 
7 e 


L 16 1 


eng the goddeſs of the ſmall-pox; withbut 2 
head, riding on a horſe without a head; Funenauon, 
with large ears; and Col Lokv, riding on a horſe. In 
another apartment was 'SE8B, whoſe image was only a 
ſmooth poſt of wood, with two or three mouldings in it, 
like a tuſcan pillar. I therefore diſcourſed with them upon 
the vanity of idols, the folly and wickedneſs of idolatry, 
the nature and attributes of God, and the way of ſal vation 
by Chriſt. One brahman was quite confounded, and 2 
number of people were all at once crying out to him, 


0 Why do not you anſwer him? Why do not you an- 
ſwer him?” He replied, „1 have no words.” Juſt at 


this time a very learned brahman came up, who was deſited 


to talk with me, which he did; and fo acceded to what 
I faid, that at laſt he faid that images had been uſed of late 


years, but not from the beginning. I enquired of him 
what I muſt do to be ſaved? He' ſaid, I muſt repeat the 
name of God a great many times. I replied, « Would 
you, if your ſon had offended you, be fo pleaſed with him, 
as to forgive him, for the ſake of his repeating the word, 
father,, father, a thouſand times? This might pleaſe chil. 
dren, or fools, but God is toiſe. He told me, that I muſt | 
get faith. I aſked, what faith Ii to which he gave 
me no intelligible reply: but ſaid, I muſt obey God, 1 
anſwered, What are his commandments ? What is his 
will? They ſaid, God was a great light; and as no one 
could ſee him, he became incarnate under the threefold 
character of BIKMMHA, BEESHN, and SE EB; and that 
either of them muſt be worſhipped in order to obtain 
eternal life. I told them of the ſure word of the Goſpel, 
the way of life by Chriſt; but night coming on I was 
obliged to leave them. oo 

27. We ftill purſued our courſe up the 1ſamutyy. 
My n e 1g. but I want more ſpirituality. Peace is 


1 nw 1 


little worth, unleſs it ariſes from ſeeing bin who i is. n. 
ſible. - pagan a ee N bh 


28 Much infeſted with . 5 we Card 
to-night." We enjoy much better health than we have 
done; as to myſelf, the climate agrees with me better 
than England. Could I but ſee the cauſe of God prevail 
here, I could triumph over all the affliction I have ever 
feared.” Indeed I have gone through very little yet; but 
my carnality I have * nay, conſtant reaſon to 86 0 

20-31. Made very little way on account of the 
crookedneſs of the river: we labored two days to make 
about four or five miles in a ſtraight line. | 


June 2. I thought of trying to converſe with "OR 
poor people at Sultaunpore this evening; but juſt before 
| was going to begin, a fire broke out, Which conſumed _ 
three houſes, and called the attention of the" BY people 

who are here, until it was too late. ry 


8. Arrived at Rasche, Shu the 4 joins the 
Ganges. The river at this place is about eight or nine 
miles wide, but abounds with ſhallows. This eveni 
reached Bowlea, where we lay to for the ſabbath. Fel 
thankful-that God had preſerved us, and wondered at his 
regard for ſo mean a creature. I was enabled to wreſtle- 
with God in prayer for many of my dear friends in Eng- 
land; ſeveral of my friends at Leicefter, and ſeveral mi- 
niſters of my moſt intimate acquaintance lay very near 
my heart, I ſeemed to feel much on their account; and 
de ſociety was an object of much concern. This was & 
time of refreſhing to my ſoul indeed. 


ts 


| happineſs of joining in ſocial worſhip with thoſe who lor 


1 © 


ads ood jourtiey; yeſterday from Ray, 
' Bawlea along the Ganges, and arrived this evening at the 
| entrance wy the river Mahoney, which = to b ge 


\ a. Pe * the Mibanada; Je this. ever 
ing reached CRY * ſix n . Malda. þ 


; FED 


Much merey has followed 8 through this 9 
and conſidering the very weak ſtate of my _— we hay 


been ſupported beyond expectation. 
15. Arrived at Malda, and enjoyed once more the 


BK— - KOH 3 * 


80 Aa 


God. 


16. This day I preached. twice at Malda, uber . 


Mr. TromAas met me. Had much enjoyment; and thougt 


our congregation did not exceed fixteen, yet the pleaſure [ * 
felt in having my tongue once more ſet at liberty, In 
hardly deſcribe. Was enabled to be faithful, and felt: © 
874 5 3 for . n 5 
de 
19. To-day Mr. — infra me what my ſal 1 
was to be, by which I find my ſituation will be very com of 
fortable. Reſolved to write immediately to the Society u { 
England that they ſend me no more ſupplies, as I ſhall hn ed 
a ſufficiency. This gives me great pleaſure, as I b * 
they may the ſooner be able to attempt another miſia "0 
ſomewhere elſe. This evening ſet out with Mr. T. MW ©: 
Atudnabatty, which is to be the place of my reſidence. 
is thirty-two miles north of Malda in a ſtraight line, uu 
near ſeventy by water, and is upon the river Tanguan- ky 


[He was two days in going, but returned in fifteen hours, # 
it was down the ſtream. ] | 


r 


23. Preached at ane with much affekkion and 
pleaſure, from Epheſ. ii. 13. In Chrift Juſus ye who were 
fametime afar off, &c.; and in the evening from Epheſ. ii. 
8. By grace are ye faved, & . There was much ſeriouſ- 


neſs among us, and 1 truſt the ſabbath was eee 


in vain. 


27. Neaseef to Made tie. It is now 


one year and fourteen days ſince I left England, all which 


time I have been a ſojourner, and wandering to and fro: 
at laſt, however, God has provided me a enen he 
ap give me piety and gratitul “e 


i 


1 Buſily employed in arranging my Peeples ate | 


will furnifh a congregation, and, added to the extenſive 
engagements which I muſt neceſſarily have with the natives, 
will open a very wide door for activity. God grant kt 
may not only be large but effectual Detected to-day a 
ſhocking piece of oppreſſion, practiſed by thoſe natives who 
managed affairs before my coming. I was glad ef this 


detection, as it afforded me both an opportunity of doing 


juſtice among the heathen, and of expoſing the wickedneſs 
of their oppreſſors, one of whom was a brakimati, who made 
ſuch a deduction from the poor people's hire as 'diſcourag- 
ed them from working for us. This, T hope, will ſerve 
a little to remove the prejudice of the people againſt Eu- 


ropeans, and prepare the WAY for the PEER of the 
Goſpel. - 


July 1-3. At preſent I know not We" any eee 
ſince I have been here. Many ſay that the Goſpel is the 
way of truth; but they abound fo much in aner that 
little can be faid reſpeRing their ſincerity. | 


/ 


s b 


3 . 4 

-- . IST 

=_ dn CIT LETS. 
— ed 


8 411 


5. Very poorly to- day from having been much et. 
_ to the heat yeſterday, which will oblige me to h 
more cautious. Had ſome pleaſant and ſpiritual. corivery 
tion with Moonſhee, who, I hope, will loſe caſt. for th 
Goſpel, which, to a Hindoo of his caſt, is a greater ſac, 
fice than life. Perhaps this is one of the ſtrongeſt chain 
with which the devil ever bound the children of men, "Thi 
__ econ God can break it. 
6. . to ativan: to ſomething like public 
- worſhip; but was almoſt alone, as moſt of the laborers ha 
made ſome appointment to go to their families, and very fey 
were left. 


2a 


| 57 Had more proßtable e with Moonſbe 
this evening; and indeed he is the only native with whon 
I can converſe in this place, all the reſt being very igno- 
rant, and ſpeaking a dialect which differs as much fron 
true Bengalee as Lancaſhire does from true Engliſh; 6 
that I have hard work to underſtand _ and to make 
them — me. 


1 9 to > Aug, 4. "pul in 11 Had ſome 
very pleaſant ſeaſons at Malda, where I preached ſevenl 
times, and the hearers ſeemed much affected with the word, 
One day, as Mr. Thomas and I were riding out, we fay 
a baſket hung in a tree, in which an infant had been expiſed 
the ſkull of which remained, the reſt having been devout 
ed by. ants. 

. 47. Returned home to Mudnabatty, It is: 
very awful time with us here; ſcarce a day but ſome ate Wi «:y 
teized with fevers. I believe it is owing to the abundance = 
of water in the rice-fields all around us. On the two lat Wi © 
of theſe days the Mahometans were employed in celebrat- tn 
ing the ſlaughter of Mahomet's family. They were going 


about with pipes, drums, &c. inceſſantly, both days and 
igkts; and on the laſt day upwards of two thouſand people, 
Wor all ages, came juſt before our door, the houſe being 
built on the bank of a tant, part of which is conſecrated to 
z peer, or ſpirit of fome ſaint, who was buried there: they 
iſhed much to diſplay the whole ſcene to us; though 
perhaps half of them came out of curioſity, having never 
ſeen a white woman, and many not a white man before. 
It was curious to hear them enquiring one of another 
nich was Saib; and which was Bibby Saib? i. e. which 
as me, and which was my wife, They brought four or 
five ornamented biers, in which the dead family of Mano- _ 
MET were ſuppoſed to be repreſented ; and after the exhibi- 
tion was ended, they buried or drowned them in the tank. 


» Their zeal on theſe occaſions is very great; every thing is 

* ſacrificed to their ee and every Muſſelman, rien or 
0 ; 

: r, joins in the ceremon | 5 


1 5. Lech y Spent it in reading and praying 
with my family. Towards evening went out, and the men 
who built the works came to me and ſaid, that as I was to 
begin to make indigo to-morrow, it was much their wiſh 
that I would make an offering to KALLY (the gaddeſs of 


" deſtruction) that I might have good ſucceſs in the work. 
3 This KALLY is the moſt devil-like figure that can be ima- 


1 gined. * She ſtands upon a dead man; her girdle is ſtrung 
yer with ſmall figures of human ſkulls, like beads upon a 


Out- 

bracelet ; ſhe has four arms, and her tongue hangs-out of 
' her mouth below her chin—in ſhort, a more horrible figure 
us l See her picture in HoLwELL's Hiſtorical Events, part ii. plate 3. He 


lays, „ She takes her name from her uſual habiliment which is black, and 
ance is frequently called the Black Goddeſs, KA LI EE (ſo he ſpells it) is the 
aft common name for ink. She is fabled to have ſprung completely armed from 
Wa the eye of DA VAN, at a time when the was hard preſſed by the tyrants af 

the earth,” P. 131. DzuGAH is the goddeſs of virtue. | 


B b 2 


8 [184 J 
can ſcarcely be conceived. I took the opportunity of re, 


ROY and for my Face: as rh as poſkible e thei 


making any offering at all. I told them that I would r. 
ther loſe my life than ſacrifice to their idol; that God wa Wi the 

much. difpleaſed with them for their idolatry, and exhorted he- 

them to leave it and turn to the true God: but J had the ane 

mortification the next day of diſcovering that they had been va! 

offering a kid; yet I doubt not but I ſhall ſoon ſee fone lit 

of theſe people brought out of darkneſs into the marvellou A 

light of the Ggſpel. . 4 

| 

_ [For nearly three months from this time it was a ſealon Wi ©: 
of great aflition, eſpecially with the natives, who were * 

ſeized with a diſorder much of the nature of the fen ague; ou 

and about Sept. 1. he was taken very ill himſelf witha Wi © 

violent fever. Mr. U— came to viſit him, and though he pl: 
was ignorant of his illneſs, providentially brought a bottl Wl bu 

of bark with him, which proved of great ſervice, though In 

he was getting worſe and worſe daily before. But after lte 

he was recovered for about ten days, he relapſed, and ws Fn 

e 


again very dangerouſly ill for ſome time, in the midſt of which 
affliction he loſt his youngeſt child but one, a fine boy dl 
about five: years of age. The particular trouble that at- a0 
tended the burial of the child has been already related“! 
He enjoyed much divine ſupport in his aMi&ion, and v 


at times enabled, as he lay on his bed, to mule over dil, 


courſes in the Bengalee language for ſeveral hours toge- f 
ther; words and phraſes (be fays) occurring much more Wl 
readily than when he was in health. ] ti 
Oct. 12. This day Mr. Tmomas came to ſee me, and % 
we ſpent the ſabbath together. | Agreed to ſpend the Tuck ® 
0! 


# See No, II. of Periodical Accounts, Pe 127, 


1 5 1 


day morning every week in joint though erat prayer 
to God for a bleſſing upqg the miſſion. 


He continued very ill for a conſiderable time, and on 
the 20th of October ſet out on a journey, partly for his 
health; ſpent ſome days at Maypaldiggy with Ur. I HoM As, 
and found it good to enjoy the communion of ſaints. “ Its 
value (he obſerves) can ſcarcely be eſtiniated, unleſs in a 
ſituation like mine, where I am ſurrounded with Pagans 
and Mbemeden and have no others with whom I can 
converſe.” He then proceeded on his journey, and Mr. 
THoMAs with him, deſigning to have gone as far as to 
* the mountains which part Bengal from 7 hibet ; but found 
ork it impracticable to get there by water at that ſeaſon, with- 
out running the hazard of leaving the pinnace behind them, 
On their return they ſtopped at Corncigh, a pretty large 
place, where they went to look at two temples of Sees, 
built by the Rajah and Ranee (King and Queen) of Dinage- 
pore; they found them elevated, with an aſcent of ſeveral 
ſteps to go up to them, upon which Mr. THOMAS ſtood, 
and preached to a pretty large concourſe of people, wha 
heard the word with great attention. Both our brethren, 
returned to Moypaldiggy, October 31, where Mr. CAR EY 
abode and preached on the Lord's-day, and November 34 
returned to Mudnabatty.] | 


8 4. Moonſhee has been ill for three Ska 
| with the fever, ſo that I can ſcarcely derive any benefit 
from him, and as an aſſiſtant in preaching, none at all, I 
am therefore prevented ſrom diſcourſing much with the na- 
tives; for though I can talk to them a little, yet not for 
long together; and when they ſay much I fad it difficult 
to underſtand them, for by my ignorance of one or two 
| words, or by the peculiarities of conſtruction, the thread 
of the diſcourſe is broken, and rendered unintelligible to me 


1601 


in great meaſure. | May God give me wiſdom, and a ſpi. 
rit of application until all theſe difgeultics are overcome, 


F. Set out for Maida, where I ſtaid until the 10th. 
Had ſome return of the fever; but preached twice on the 
Lord's-day, though very weak and full of pain. The in. 
ter val ſpent at this place, was very agreeably filled up, ! 
truſt with profit and pleaſure on all ſides. Mr. U. figni. 
fied his wiſh for me to remove to Sadamahl as a more 


healthy place, and to go up immediately and try to get x 
pottah for land, of the Rajah. | 


[On the 11th he went home to Mudnabatty, where he 
was at firſt very much indiſpoſed, but ſoon got better, and 
journeyed to Moypaldiggy, where he preached the 16th, 
The 18th and two following days he was employed i in his 
oy to Sadamabl.] 


23. A ſolitary ſabbath. In the afternoon tried to 
preach to the people who were with me, but could not 
even fix their attention: they ſeemed ſhockingly uncon- 
cerned, and were all the time gazing about on the objeds 
around them, I was grieved at their inattention, yet fel 
a pleaſure that I had addreſſed them on the concerns of 
another world. 


24—30. During theſe days, having no one to ſpeak 
to, and many hours in which no butineſs- could be done, | 
found my ſoul drawn out after the Lord: I was enabled to 
be inſtant in prayer for the ſucceſs of my miniſtry among 
the heathen; the ſucceſs of my colleague; and for all my 
dear friends in England, who lie very near my heart; eſpe- 
cially for the church at Leice/ter, and our miſſion ſociety. 
1 was much engaged for many by name, and was greatly 
affected with what might be their probable ſituations both 
ſpiritual and temporal, I had intended to go and preach to 


1 167 1 


more of the inhabitants of theſe parts but a return of the 
fever prevented me. 1& RY 


Dec. 1—3- Coke at Sadamabl. My fever was 


; comfortably removed by means of the bark. 
* 4. Not having obtained the object of my journey, 1 


1 2 my return, and reached Aſaabad that night. 


„ 5. Found my own family, and Mr. Tromas, well at 


1 Ma paldiggy; for which J have yeaſon to be very thankful. 


6. Arrived at Mudnabatiy, having been preſerved in 


be a journey of near two hundred miles by water, une it 
and would not have ou above eighty by land. 

th, 
his 7. This evening had much pleaſure and freedom in 


preaching to the natives at Mudnabatty, who were more at- 
tentive than thoſe at Sadamahl; and I doubt not but 
God has a work to do here. It has been his general way 
to begin among the poor and deſpiſed, and to paſs by thoſe 
who imagine themſelves to be wiſe; and here we have 
only poor and illiterate people, and ſcarce any of thoſe who 
value themſelves on account of being the higher caſt. 


# 
"We. 
7 


13. Lord's-day. Preached to the natives of another 
village, who were very attentive, and raiſed my expecta- 
tions very much. 


20. Came to Malda, and was much refreſhed by the 
converſation of chriſtian friends. 


mong 

7 21. Preached from Heb. vi. 18. Dwelt much on 

eth. that idea, that it is the vill of God that his ſaints ſhould 

el have ſtrong conſolation. In the evening from Jude 24. 
Now unto him that is able to he 1 lling, &c. 1 

both im that is a ep you from falling, 


hope on myſelf and the congregation were edified. 


- — 
_ LEO 4 
- —_—— TE 5 
EATS: I = "a, 
N 


\ [288 } 


22—3 . Spent this time at Maida in very ers 
ſociety, Preached on Dec. 25, and twice on the followin 
Lord's-day. The whole of this time was a ſeaſon of re 
refreſhment to my ſoul.” On the laſt of theſe" days 1 l 
 Malada to return home. I have gone through many changg 
this year, but how much has the goodneſs of God Exceed 
my expectations and hopes 


. 


1795. 


1 


Jan. 1—15. During this time I have not had leiſur a 
to write my diary. On Lord's-days I have preached vid! 
the natives in the ſurrounding villages, and 1 hope nes 
without ſome good effect. The Muſſelmans of one villa tin 
appeared much ſtruck with the word, and promiſed to ei the 
off their ſuperſtitions. Laft Lord's-day they continued the 
the ſame reſolution, and were joined in it by ſeveral och ar 
who had not heard the word before. Yeſterday I was le 
jected on finding that one of our workmen, a brick eat 
had nearly made an idol of the ſame kind with that m h 
tioned in my journal of Feb. 4, laſt year (Sa Rosu AD en 
the patroneſs of learning) and which he propoſed to conls 
crate at her next annual feaſt, I might have uſed auths 2 
rity, and have forbidden it; but I thought that would en 
perſecution ; I therefore talked ſeriouſly with the mil f 
to-day, and tried to convince him of the ſinfulneſs of fud 4 


a thing, as well as its fooliſhneſs : he acquieſced in ul 
ſaid, and promiſed to throw his work away; fo that, | 
hope, the idol will be put an end to here. oO may G8 ip, 
turn them from idols to himfelf! _ 


I7. This afternoon Mr. Twomas came; his ſpit 
tual converſation was bleſſed, I truſt, to rouſe and anim © Ge 
my ſoul; I had ſome reviving in prayer with him, # 


* Frequently ſpelt SERASWATTI; 


two J 


Ing nan bis friend. 3 19153 bei; ne te 1911 1 8 ti dhe * 
real Ye, ont 3 mne en tes 
ek 18. This al. Mr. Tuomas preached with 
90 uch affection to a company of Hindoos, who were met 
(el 


o make offerings to 1h4$UN: * "This is a ſpecies of idolatry 
peculiar to this part of the country, in which the 'Miifſul- 
mans join with the Hindoos. Plantains and ſweetmeats 
re brought by the women, and expoſed oppoſite the ſet- 
ing fun, the people expreflitig their joy with ſinging and 
inſtrumental muſic. Juſt before the ſun ſet, the women 
laced pots of burning coals upon their heads, but ſo made 
Was not to burn them, and walked round the offering: ſeveral 


lax times, which ended the ceremony.” Many,” however, left 
eil ebe ſacrifice, and diſcourſed all the way home witli us about 
eiue things of God. Laid a plan for ſetting up two chow- 


parees, + and” to print the Bible and other uſeful things in 
ine Bengal and Hindoſtanee languages. We have great 
eaſon to be very thankful to God for his kind rovidence, 
me bich enables us to 1 6 out Wy, thinly the: Kim: maß our 


1 aun be n Rye oe wan eee! a @ "od, 
conle⸗ $307 213 44 OC! 
utho This being a foaſor in which tarot ab; 
ld or grid I have had yOu occaſions” . nnn 


5 mal F. Mir in I „ ii 

For an es account of ſolar 3 as Ne hs inſt of the 
aſtern nations, where that glorious planet beams with ſuch tranſcendant 
nd increaſing ſplendor 3 3 and whoſe ray hath kindled the devotions of man- 
ind from age to age,” ſee Mavxtce' E* In AnTiqQuiTi1zs, vol. 
i. p. 8 ene BEL URSL IV9 {©0307 {txt} 


EY i) 2 * 
1 5 3 0 1 33 9 


In a maden of part of 0 Mahabarat lieb Mr. HALHED ſays ic 
' the grand epic poem of India”) ſent, to one of our brethren by Mr, Ce- 
rr, is the following acknowledgment of the Divinity of this luminary— 
mim * God Tux Sun G ſet, the parties Went to their on 
a0 es.“ „ 1 | 


1 U 5 C 1 ; ; 4 : 1 8 


+ See Period. Accounts, No. i. ; Þ: 725: 


= 


Il that ar iren neu, iron, ſo doth the countenance * 


Fo. 
— — 


— 
— = 


4d my 
_— 


+ 
0 
* 

* 
4 


on 
* 
F ö 


5 3 490 


the. people agaluſt it. Tecuy an idol Kunz wa 
made in the neighbourhood ; had ſome converſation with e 
veral natives on ag: Bo. wickednels of idolatry. 

. a 00 nenn en 1 

21. Had W reien of Fg ee POW 
neſs and faithfulneſs, the neceſſity of obtaining Pardon fron 
p * WE: idolatry, uber ing. OM: 2413-07 *; 


e "This was the * for the ds i CY 
one of her images was prepared near the place when 
line: ang. i in the morning I was enabled to ſpeak feeling 
to to or three people about the ſinfulneſs of idolatry ; a 
was determined to go and preach to them in the evening 
whey, the offering. would de at its height... Accordingly] 
went, and, after aſking what that thing was 7. The brahmay 
ho attended the offering, ſajd, i it was God. Pray. ſaid I, di 
that make men, or did men make that? He confeſſed thut 
was made by men. I then aſked, how many Gods, the 
were? He ſaid, one, I enquired, who made the woll 
He ſaid, BIMNHA. L aſked, whether, he was God! t 
ſaid, yes. Then, ſaid I, there may be a lact of Gods (v 
100,000) at this rate. He then ſaid, that he did according 
to his faith, and that the ſhaſter commanded this. I enquir⸗ 
what ſhaſter ? He ſaid, the Bee Accoran, I replied, Thi 
is only a ſhanſcrit grammar, and commands no ſuch thing 
have you read it ? He acknowledged that he had not. Then 
faid I, you can have no faith about the matter; for faith! 
believing ſome words, but this thing cannot (peak, aps te 
ſhaſter you have never read. He then ſaid, that it un 
the cuſtom of the country. Said I, are all the cuſtoms 
"this country good? He ſaid, yes. I aſked him, whether th 
cuſtom of thieves to ſteal and murder were good; 1 
added, it is a common cuſtom in this country to tell lit 
ſo that you will not find one man in a thouſand but male 
lying his conſtant practice; is this a good cuſtom? l 
whoredom a ee cuſtom? He was quite ſtunned vii 


@ & #_ =n G$-FO0Qq «= 0 © wy 


| an —_— — 2 


( 501 1 


this ; but preſently ſaid, that his anceſtors had always done 
{, 1 enquired, whether there was a heaven and an hell? 
nie faid, yes. Then, ſaid I, how do you know but they are 
gone to hell? He afked, why God ſent the ſhaſters, if they 
| were not to be obſerved? I anſwered, how do you know 
that God ſent the Hindoo ſhaſters? Did he ſend the Muſ. 
ſelmans' koran alſo? He replied, that God had created both 
Hindoos and Muſſelmans, and had given them different ways 
to life. Then, faid' I, God could neither be wiſe nor un- 
changeable to do ſo, and all ſuch fooliſh worſhip is un wor- 
thy of either God or man. I then took an opportunity of 
pointing out the juſtice of God, and the goſpel way of fal- 
vation by Chriſt, and intreated the people to caſt away thoſe 
fooleries, and ſeek pardon through the blood of Chriſt; 
for, ſaid I, you ſee your brahman is dumb, he can'ſay no- 
thing; if he can defend his cauſe, let him ſpeak now; but 
you ſee he cannot tell whether this thing is God, or man, 
or woman, or tyger, or jackall. I felt a ſweetneſs in my 
own ſoul, and a great affection for them, and was enabled 
to ſpeak from the heart; and was aſſiſted to ſpeak in Ben- 
galee for near half an hour without intermiſſion, ſo as to 
be underſtood; which was more than I had ever done be- 
fore. Bleſſed be God for this aſſi ſtance. O that I may 
ſee the good fruit of it, and that God may bleſs it to their 
eternal welfare. As to the common people, they care juſt 
| as much for their idol as carnal men do for Chriſt at Chriſt- 
mas: a good feaſt and a holiday is all in all with them both. 


| find the time of worſhipping this idol is regulated by 
the moon. 


26, Had an opportunity of diſcourſing with ſome of 
the natives on the danger of their ſtate, and evil of their 
practices. Was employed a conſiderable part of the day 
in detecting a cheat, practiſed by one of the overſeers of 
the works, whom I was obliged to diſcharge. Theſe di- 

Ce 2 


* 


— n - 


* * 0 3 . E 4 


* 
— 


* 


\ [192 1 


| honeſt tricks are ſo common with 1 that they play 
them without a bluſh. O that God would make the 

Goſpel ſucceſsful among them; this would undoubtedly 

en en. ung, we 1 fear Raths elſe ever will, 

20. "Much e in > as 3 to o Europe, be 
having: received none, I feel that hope deferred makes the 
heart ſick: however, I am ſo fully ſatisfied of the firmnek 
of their friendſhip, that I feel a ſweet pleaſure in writing to 
thewsthoughirather. of a forlorn kind. 

10 fands in 0 
Feb. I, Had FI, then) in 8 the natives; 
but was at firſt, much dejected, ſeeing them inattentive, and | 

afterwards, putting all the quirking queſtions, to me they Wi to! 

could think of: however, I was enabled to be faithful, and he 
at laſt God ſeemed to fix their attention rather more, and ſin 
they deſired me to ſet up @ weekly . to read the Bil co 

20 _ and OO . | 5 ex 


* bis is a the valley of the ſhadow. of pr 4 = o. 
. what would I give for kind ſympathetic friends, he 

| ach as I had in England, to whom I might open my heart! Ned 
But I irejoice that I am here notwithſtanding, and Gon 18 on 
HERE, who can not only have compaſſion, but is alſo able an 


to. = to the e, 10 ö bu 
th 

* ge = a 3 or two to a Mahometan upon 58 thi 
great truths of religion. and 7 ha 
| | y G 


8. Went to a village called Maddabatiy, to 2 to lan 
the patives, but found very few. I felt much for them, but lor 
had nat the freedom I wiſhed; yet I know God can bleſs Ui 
a weak attempt. ; to 


N 
1 12 
= 1-0 
1 1 
” \ oh 
eee 
= U . o 
"hes; 
1 20 
i 9 #1 
Elf 
* 4; ty 
We. 
l _ 
{is —_ 
1 
„ > 
LW 
by 
"” \ - 
* 
_— 
7 
et 
fa 7 
"Cf 
ol 


15. Preached in the evening to a pretty large aſſembly 
of natives; but when I told them of the immortality of 


— - 2 
„ 
fe —_ _— 


— * 
E . * 
2 - * * 
7 ICED 1 re 
—— — ——— uy - ooo oe I Er ICC LS — POT — — 


5 
EY 


= A = 
rr - _ 
EC 
. 
6!é ie gh . 


} 


1 0 1 


the Py: they Laid than had never heard of that-before\thas | 
day. They, told me they wanted-in e png Ace 
me to nee enn che Lord's-day... Ny 


F A 6 = 4 2 nde 3 opportunities of addrefi. 
but ing the, beathen; but their poverty obliges them to labor 
the from ſun- riſe to ſun-ſet: I have, however, opportunities of 
nels privately inſtructing them very frequently. O may Insxer 
% vant a heart! 

22. In the 3 * was e SET Fg a een. 

76; derable . number of natives coming for inſtruction,” with 
and whom I endeavoured to diſcourſe about divine things. I 
bey told them that all men were ſingers againſt God, and that 
aud he was ſtrictly juſt, and of purer eyes than to approve of 
and ſin. This point I endeavored to preſs, and aſked how they. 
3:6; Could poſſibly be ſaved if this were the caſe? I tried to 

explain the nature of heaven and hell, and told them that, 
» without our ſins were pardoned we muſt go to hell. & I them 
n 0 told them that God had ſent his on Son to ſave ſinners; that 
nds, he came to ſave them from ſin and its puniſhment; and ſuffer- 
art ed death in the ſtead of ſinners; and that whoſoever believed 
> 13 con him would obtain everlaſting life, and would become holy 
able and happy. They ſaid, they were all pleaſed with this; ; 

but wiſhed to know what ſin and holineſs were. I told 
4 them that there were ſins of the heart, of the tongue, and of 
the the actions; but as a fountain caſts out its waters, ſo all ſin 

bad its ſource from the heart; and that not to think of 

God, not to do his will, not to regard his word, was very 
1 to linful; and alſo that pride, envy, and covetouſneſs were 
but WM great fins; that evil and abuſive language, and the want of 
lels WW ict uprightneſs in their dealings, were very ſinful. I 
told them that God was under no obligation to ſave any 
man, and that their making offerings to God would be of 


J of See No. II. p. 148. 


\ b 94 1 


u San the pardon of ſin, for God bad no need gf 
goats, kids, or ſheep, &c. for all theſe were his at all times 
and if God forgave them it muſt be from bis own will; 
but that he was willing to ſave for the ſake of Jeſus Crit 

After this, part of the fifth chapter of Matthew was read by 
Moonſhee, which I explained to them; and they wen 
away promiſing to return next er ; __ my uy 
were much revived, 


I am the more encouraged as this is the beginning of: 

congregation, and as they came of their own will, and dere 

: to be inſtructed. They were collected from the village 

where I had preached before, and from ſome where I hare 

not been. Moſt of them were men of influence, being 

mundulls, or heads of villages. Their attention was very 

geeat; their queſtions ſerious and pertinent: and had [1 

greater command of their language, I might be able t» 

1 convey much inſtruction to them. However, they under. 

3 ſtood what was delivered, and they already remembet 

ſome religious terms, as the name of Jeſus Chriſt, and his 

miſſion, with its deſign, and the neceſſity of pardon. in order t 

to ſalvation. But the confined dialect uſed in this neigh- 

bourhood is a great diſadvantage to me; e. g. the woll 

wntobkoron,' uſed by the more learned for heart as the ſet 

of aſfection, would hot be underſtood here; fo that Chet 

} ſpeak of ſin as coming from the heart, I am forced to 

uſe the word dele, which only ſignifies heart as a part d 

the body, and means a beaſt's heart as well as a man's; 

and from hence much circumlocution is neceſſary. But 

God's cauſe, I doubr not, will e over all obſtacle 
ſoon. FONT TD 6 


6 „ 7 of 


23. I felt ſome encouragement through this day, 
ariſing from the circumſtance of the people's coming je 
terday for inſtruction; and was enabled to plead with God | 
for them. I long for their deliverance from their miſeradi c 


— — - 


of [ __ — g 2 — 
„ 36 3 - P: 5 * = 
_ r 6 6ʒ6 — — * -- —- — 
e ,,,, — — — — — — 


—ʒ 


— FIR 


EE 


*S 
= \ 
55 © | 
i 
\ 
oa 
[ay 
vo 
N 
WY 
V 
oy 
1 
1 * 
oY 
we 
+ 


= _ 
TE CE OI OEE_S — . ̃ ,, ⏑ ED A - 
— — An 


- \ 


(951. 


| Gate, principally, becauſe I ſee God daily diſticnared, and 


them drowned. in ſenſuality, ignorance, and ſuperſtition 
and likewiſe, becauſe I think that news of the converſion 
of ſome of them would much encourage the ſociety, and 


exeite them to redouble their efforts in her Pere for the 
— extent ae 1588 e 42 — 


A "$$ : 16 5 
21 3d 1113) 


ad. see e the ed big M8 held 


chriſtian ſociety; for if one becomes ſomewhat dull, con- 
verſation ſer ves to enliven the ſpirits, and prompt a perſon 
on OT TA IKE FEE ne 
11105 ns 17 U TR, „Nich 0 bits 
1 KRolste Mel . 10 Mr. TroMaAs, found 
him well we had much comfortable and very profitable 
conyerſation 3: but I feat the letters to be ſerſt as ſpecimens 
for types will ſcarcely be ready this ſeaſon.” It is a conſi- 
derable work, and requires much care and attention. 1 
4:16: 3 uio9 £600 Mr ot em 2 1 70 mm: een il 
27. On my return home had an opportunity of. diſ- 
8 with ſome people upon divine things, and telling 
them of e e on account t of fin. 
01 2 tink 
Marek "Y 1795. Felt 1 my l l and 1 1 
nnen the public exerciſes of religion, at my on 
houſe. Felt alſo a concern for the ſpread of the goſpel in 
other parts, and for the churches and miniſters of my ac- 
quaintance. F was in hope that my laſt week's congrega- 
tion would have come to-day, but was diſappointed. 1 


went out however to a market at Nulla Gunge, about two 


miles diſtant, and preached to the people there, who were 
very attentive, and promifed to come for n. e 
tion. 1 hope ſome hats aac be done. 


On the 6th. was viſited by Sane: Mr. v. Mr. D. and 
Mr. G. and to-day Mr. THOMAS came; we had ſweet 
converſation together. 


} 


1 
1 
i 
+ 
N. 
* 
N 1 
q 1 
* 
1 4 1. 
=_ 
5 ns 
PQ”; 
fn 7 
_ ſ © 
ve 1 i 
| 0 
i 
=_ 
x 
th 
' 
\ 4 
* 
1 7 
1 4 
- a . 
F 
LY | 
# 
_ 
od * 
1 
0 
a; 
1 
1 4 
* 1 
> 
1 | 
4 S 
0 
<. x 
mn 


them i} % steel nzith 


the neceſſity of a ſinner's union with Chriſt. They ap- 


\, En 1 


irs The 1 preached once, and Mr „ Tue nb Cnc; in 6. 
houſe to our viſitors, and i it was A refreſhing Inn ww on 
P ) $i F une 751 Hs gik 


— 1 * * 1 Wy " „ r 5 
ATE Nobo 9 112 anf mne 3 10 f 


44 


-"2MoonsHet was gone to et a relation for ahi i 
fortnight, but TI went out to preach to the natives, found 
very few, tried to diſcourſe with them, but my ſoul wg 
ene wor meer and after ſome time r 


o e Meng das 23] oy 4 F111 of e191 © 
1 . On Surday | Mr. we OP came to 6 us, 
and on Lord's-day we went to Lulla, a village about tyo 
miles eff; where he preached, and had great liberty of 
expreſſion; the people appeared to be much impreſſed with 
715 5 1 Ochar it e be e nee 
qa (4 ebm As bee us on Wedneſday, who 
viſit has been of uſe to my ſoul ; ſpiritual converſation is; 
great and invaluable bleſſining- Demet on ben . to 
7 few * a . _— ne) te mae 
April 5, 1795. Have lately bissel ifa oppor- 
tunities of ſpeaking to ſome natives upon the 'wickedneh 
of the horrid 1. * AP Ke. ö 1 ſeaſon bein 
now: r n | ONS Vis ST ol 
On Lats wer abba to "ntl ue adv natives, 
Un the morning the congregation was about 500, and after 
Moonſhee had read a chapter in Matthew, I endeavotel 
to preach, and had more enjoyment than for ſome time 
paſt; and the people, having attended with great ferioul- 
neſs, went away ſhouting Alla, i. e. O God. In the eves- 
ing had about 400, and was enabled to ſpeak to them of 


* 


peared ſerious, and departed ſhouting as in the morning, 
which is a way which the Muſſelmans uſe to invoke the 


197 ] 


Divine Being; Alla being nes from the Hebrew en 
and the Arabic and Perſian word for God, which the Muſ- ; 
ſelmans univerſally uſe here. 


6—10. Had frequent opportunities of diſcourſing with 
the natives about the horrid ſelf-tormenting modes of wor- 
ſhip which are practiſed on the 8th, gth, and 1oth of this 
month; ſuch as falling on ſpikes of iron, dancing with 
threads or bamboos thruſt through their ſides, &c. This 
is practiſed on the three laſt days of their year, but the 
principal is what they. call Chorrut Pogjah, i. e. the wor- 
ſhip of ſwinging. Poojah is their word for worſhip, and 
Prdjah for the object of worſhip. This worſhip, I find, 
is only praCtiſed by the hurry, or loweſt c of the Hin- 
doos ; who are hunters, bird-catchers, tanners, ſhoe-mak- 
ers, &c. and are eſteemed execrable by the other caſts; but 
bole WY great numbers always go to ſee them. The other modes 
b Wh of ſelf-tormenting (which I ſaw at Deharta) are not prac- 
f 0 WY tiled in this part of the country, except ſwinging, which 


q was attended to in many places on the roth; and the night 
go. was ſpent in dancing and mirth. This day I had a ſerious 
Por converſation with one man about his ſoul. 
neſs 
ing 12. This day N twice to the natives, had a 


large aſſembly. About 200 in the morning, and in the 
evening about 500. Moonſhee firſt read to them a part 
of the goſpel of Matthew, and I afterwards preached to 
them upon the neceſſity of repentance and faith, and of 
copying the example of Chriſt. They heard with conſi- 
derable attention, and I felt ſome ſweet freedom in preſ- 
ling them to come to Chriſt. Afterwards had ſome medi- 
tation on the effects of the fear of God on my ſoul, and 
law plainly that I was reftrained from much evil thereby; 
not merely as if I was hindered from action by bands put 
D d . 


„ 


| upon me, but by its pee upon my will, and its er 
Citing me to dread doing that of which God diſapproves 


12—19. Had a few opportunities of diſcourſing y 
divine ſubjects this week. On Lord's-day preached twin 
to a pretty large concourſe of people; I ſuppoſe five g 
ſix hundred each time. I was poorly with a cold, and& 
jected, thinking I could ſay nothing; but, contrary þ 
my expectation, I was enabled to pour out my ſoul to Go 
for them, and afterwards for God to them. I felt mud 
more liberty and pleaſure than I could expect, in ſpeaking 
an hard language, and with which my acquaintance mul 
neceſſarily be lender; though, I believe, I ſpoke mon 
than half an hour, ſo as to be well underſtood, without 
any help from Moonſhee. I hope God may at laſt ; 
pear, and FTE on his work in the midſt of us. 


May 9. For the laſt three fabbaths my ſoul has bett 
much comforted in ſeeing fo large a congregation, more 
eſpecially as many attend who are not our own workmen 
from the parts adjacent; whoſe attendance muſt be wholh 
diſintereſted. I therefore now rejoice in ſeeing a regula 
congregation, compoſed of from two to ſix hundred peopl 
of all deſcriptions, Muſſelmans, Brahmans, and other claſs 
of Hindoos, which I look upon as a favorable token fron 
God. I this day attempted to preach to them more re 
gularly from Luke iv. 18.“ The Spirit of the Lord i 
ec upon me, becauſe he hath anointed me to preach the 
<« Goſpel to the poor,” &c. in which diſcourſe I endes 
vored to prove the miſerable {tate of unconverted man, s 
ſpiritually poor, as bound by a ſinful diſpoſition, and by 
pernicious cuſtoms, and vain expectations of happinels 
from falſe and idolatrous worſhip ; I alſo took occaſion to 
obſerve, that both in the ſhaſters and koran there were - 
many good obſervations and rules, ſuch as ought to be fe- 
garded ; but that one thing they could not inform us 0) 


L 199 +1 


vis, how. * forgive hin, conſiſtently with his juſtice, 
and fave ſinners i in a way in which juſtice and mercy could 
harmonize, I. told them, moreover, that their books 


S 
es, 


8 0 
twice 
VE M 
d de. 
Ty to 
0 
much 
akiny 


able quantity of, good flour, but mixed with ſome very 
malignant poiſon, which made the whole ſo poiſonous that 
whoever ſhould eat of it would die: ſo I obſer ved that their 
writings contained much good inſtruction, mixed with 
deadly poiſon. 1 appealed to them whether any of their 
idols could give rain; (a bleſſing much wanted at this time) 
or whether they could do them any ſervice at all ? When 
an old Muſſelman anſwered aloud, „No, they have no 
mul power at all.” And in this he included the Muſſelmans 
moe bers, or ſpirits of their ſaints, as well as the heathen idols. 


tod obſerved that the caſt was a ſtrong chain, by which they 
tere bound. I afterwards ſpoke of the ſuitableneſs and 

glory of the Goſpel, which propoſed an infinitely . 
10 crifice for infinite guilt, and a free ſalvation for poor and 


periſhing finners, In the afternoon I enlarged upon the 
"" ſame ſubject. I felt my own. ſoul warmed, and hope for 


* good. God has given me, of late, a greater Concern for 
. the ſalvation of the heathen, and I have been enabled to 
& make it a more FL Anh A at the throne of * 
ople, * 


laſſe Bleſſed 1 God, chat we a at laſt e * 


and other articles, from our dear friends in England. I 
e le. rejoice to hear of the welfare of Zion. I bleſs God that 


rd 1 Leicefler people go on well—oh may they increaſe more 
| the BH and more! Letters from dear brethren Ful LER, PEARCE," 
de. Monks, and Riyrox; but why not from others? 

1, 8 | 


d by June 14. Mr. Tou as ſpent the Lord's-day with 
inet us on the 23d of May laſt, and was much pleaſed with our 
n t0 8 congregation ; we then propoſed to concert means to get 
were all the old Hindoo profeſſors together, having it now in 


fe- D d 2 


kW 


were like a loaf of bread, in which there was a conſider- 


— —— — nee — — —————— — —— 


— — — — — —— — — 


a — 


1 
* 4 
= 


11 
: | 


—— -m 8 
3 1 1 42 


= 
- 


n 
OE 


„ 2 0 — 
n 22 
— by be 


our power to furniſh them with ſome employment, . 
ſpent Wedneſday, May 26, in prayer; and for a conveniey 
place we aſſembled in a temple of SEER, which was nen 
to our houſe. Moonſhee was with us, and we all engapel 


from that day, ſeized with a dyſentery, which continu 
near a week with dreadful violence; but then, throug 
mercy, I recovered. That day of prayer was a good dy 


the natives is very promiſing, though we have rather fene 
people now, owing to its being their ſeed-time, the rain 
being juſt now ſetting in. I hope and long for the ble. 


\ L 200 ] 


in ſupplication for the revival of godlineſs in our own fouls 
and the proſperity of the work among the natives. I wg 


to our ſouls. Through divine mercy our congregation 


ſing of God among us. Though it is painful to preai 
among careleſs heathens, I feel rr the goſpel to þ 


the element of my ſoul. 


To-day I had much ſeriouſneſs. in' addrefing them fron 
the words of Paul: Come out from among them, and he 


* ye ſeparate; and touch not the unclean thing, and 1 vil 
4 receive you, &c." "” The hearers behaved _y ſeriouſly, 


The nettes alſo goes on. Dogs: is finiſhed, and 


Exodus to the xxiiid. chapter. I have alſo, for the purpoſe 
of exerciſing myſelf in the language, begun tranſlatiny 


the goſpel by John, which Moonſhee afterwards correct; 
and Mr. Thomas has begun the goſpel by Luke—*0 


R _ fend now proſperity ! 2 


. 


ExTRACTS ran LETTERS, 


 KECETIVED 
FROM OUR BRETHREN IN INDIA; ; 


From August, 1795, to January, 1796. 


# 


— m 


Mr, Twomas to Mr. F | 
5 Auguſt 8, 1795. 

THROUGH. the forbearance and goodneſs of God 

here we are, all alive and well to this day. Two of my 


family have been taken down to the borders. of death, 


and brought up again in ſafety, with a mighty hand, moſt 
merciful. . + 


We have now Geneſis, 1. Made 8 
Mark, James, and part of Luke, tranſlated; for the Lord 
will have his name declared throughout all the earth. 


Monux Chunp, PAR BOT ER, &c. have not yet been 
aſſembled; it ſeems a long time, but this is not to be won- 
dered at, when it is conſidered that their diſtance from 
each other, when we arrived, was like that of London, An- 


feerdam, and Cunſtantinople; for we are, as it were, in a 
larger world than you are. 


- = 
= —— 
— — = = 
— — 9— — . —U—U- . ĩð — a - — * 


= _ 4 => 3 
& 1 n 
Dae 5 233 
ä * 
— —— — —— U——— _ 


| . 
„„ 


We cannot boaſt of great uſefulneſs: we cannot del. 
pair; glory be to God. We long to hear how our $6. 
ciety goes on; and long to contribute largely to thei; 
liberal and holy wiſhes and deſigns. We intend to print 
and ſend abroad Geneſis, Matthew, and Mark, this year at 
our joint expence. I have told you, by the laſt ſhips, of 
our having received the boxes, with all you ſent us, and 
the letters, which gave us great joy, eſpecially to hea 
that all the commotions of the earth ſeem to operate fur 
the furtherance of the Goſpel. 

UB VL 20S HEE EUASH UG ME) 


Your's, '&c. 


e bh 92 * 4 
. . 
: 


— 72 5 8 
eee Sn to = Soctery. : 
1 MAR Ll 1 
| Mudnabatty, Aug. 13, 1795+ 


= 


| 


"Dian BRETHREN, 
AN opportunit now preſents itſelf ot 1 me to write 
few words of my welfare and ſtate; ; and by this oppor- 
tunity I ſend my journal, by which you will ſee a little 
of the manner of my life. T think, however; that the 
whole of it can only preſent a melancholy picture of ſame- 

peſt and be as tedious as a tale that is twice told. 


We have not been idle, though 1 know not "as 5 yet of 
any ſucceſs that has attended our labours, as to the effec- 
tual calling of new converts. Ram Ram Bosnoo and 
Monvun Chuxp are now with 1 me, With their help ve 
have divine worſhip twice on the Lord' s-day i in Bengalee, 
and which is thus conducted: firſt, Moonſbee reads 4 
chapter in Bengalee; ; then we ſing; afterwards pray, and 
preach in the ſame language. But partly, from local cit 
cumſtances, and partly from the paucity of words, mj 


T 208 J 


. pecking is very different from what it was in England. 
it The guilt and depravity of mankind, and the redemption 
nt by Chriſt, with the freeneſs of God's mercy, are, how- 


at ever, the themes I moſt inſiſt upon. I often exhort them, 
of in the words of the apoſtle, 2 Cor. vi. by WHKCH') in their 
nd language I thus Expreſs : nm 
Ar | i OT OR | | 
or Baheerce aiſbo ebung Alina, hy Ner- ea 171 
Forth come and ſeparate bez ,* and - unclean thing 
ſparſa harea na ebung ammi kebool koribo tomardigkee ebung 
touch - not: and I accept will you: and 
tara hobee ommar pootregan , ebung kunecagon ai motto 
you ſhall be my ſons aud daughters: thus | 
boolen ſharbba” ſhackto Bhoagabon, © 3 


ſays the Oe God. 


The N of the Bible is going on, ; hho it 
may be thought but ſlowly. I hope we ſhall be able to 
put Geneſis, or more, to the preſs by | Chriſtmas, . We 
have for the preſent given up the idea; of getting types 
from England: and as there are types in Bengal, we think 
to print in the ordinary way, though the expence is about 
ten times what it is in England. This will, however, 
be more than compenſated by the reflexion, - that we have 
put into the hands of many heathens a treaſure greater than 
that of diamonds : and, by multiplying copies, rendered-it 
probable that thoſe ſeriptures will be preſerved in the 
Bengal tongue. 


One great difficulty in ſpeaking to the Hindoos, ariſes 
from the extreme ignorance of the common people, who- 


ales, are not able to underſtand one of their own countrymen 
ads 3 ho ſpeaks the language well, without conſiderable diffi- 
\ and culty. They have a confined dialect, compoſed of a very 


few words, which they work about, and make them mean 
almoſt every thing. Their poverty of words to expreſs 
religious ideas is amazing; all their converlataan 'being 


— 


4 

x WV 4 
: __ 
* - p 


+2 — LES > \ 8 * 1 
APES FE Fg - 4® EM 


[204]. 


about earthly things. It is far otherwiſe, however, with ; 
thoſe who ſpeak the language well, which in itſelf is rich ˖ 
and copious; and printing the Bible muſt make it more 
known to the common people. e | | 
You will perceive by the journal the ſuperſtitions we ' 
have to encounter; and, I doubt not, will ſympathize with, , 
and pray for us. We have need of your prayers and a. , 
vice in every reſpect, and you are not without a ſhare n 
our ſupplications. q 
a We have received letters from Meſſrs. F—, ÞP-, 
M—, and Dr. R—, which were a great refreſhment to ; 
us; hope we ſhall not have ſo great a ſcarcity of European b 
letters in future. The articles, likewiſe, are all ſafely p 
arrived. Through the mercy of God we all enjoy ver 
good health; and I think much more ſo than laſt yea, Jl © 
though for my part I have had much better health tha 4 
in England, and like the climate much. , 
I have diſcontinued my journal for ſome time, but n th 
new occurrence has taken place. I intend immediate) 
to reſume it, and to ſend you regular accounts. The 
utmoſt harmony and affection prevails between me and ih 
my colleague. | , | . 
. 
I am, dear Brethren, &c. th 
| w.c Wl” 
— — hit 
| | det 
Mr. Tnomas 10 Mr. P Birmingham. per 
Mudnabatty, Sept. 25, 1795 in 
ou 


THREE days ago I received with joy your welcome 
welcome letter, which yielded all the oil of gladneb 
ſo peculiar to tidings from a far country, together wit 


[ 205 |] 


the efficacy of a word in due ſeaſon. O how god is 
it! Could you, my dear brother, enter into my: feelings 
this moment, and be witneſs yourſelf of the agreeable and 
hopeful emotions which your epiſtle has ſtirred up, you 
would benevolently determine to write very largely and 
very often, For all your expreſſions of love, I fay, Bleſſed 
he the Lord, and bleſſed be thou ! Your former letter, of 
which you make mention in this, I lament, has never been 
received, | This is dated March 27, 1795, and appriſes me 
of your farmer expectation of Joining us. If that were to 
happen, how would our hearts rejoice to receive you! 
I ſhould begin to think of the ſpread of the ſpel into all 
the iſlands below, and all the hills of Bouton above us, even 
to Tartary, Two better than one?” Ah, my brother! 
ſo much better that he can never tell who has never been 
alone! We are both alone; as it were : the harveſt is 
great; the labourers weak yet, and few: O Lord of the 
harveſt ſend! That any more brethren ſhould offer 
themſelves willingly, gives us unſpeakable pleaſure. May 
the Almighty make them ſtedfaſt in ſpirit, and proſper 
their way. 


The word of God fhews, and experience proves, that 
the greatneſs of an undertaking is no ſecurity of life. We 


| are dying men; and it is a great pity that ſuch a work as 


this ſhould be in the hands of two only; and, in caſe of 
their death, all their labours are liable to be uſed for waſte 
paper. We are both determined that, if the Lord ſhould 
truſt any property in our hands, all ſhall be devoted to 
him. And ſurely our beloyed Society would then be un- 
der no farther concern about pecuniary proviſions and ex- 
pences than landing the Miffionaries in Bengal. We are 


indebted to you; and all we have is God's, and not | 
our own, 


Ee 


206 1 
- Your affectionate cautions: concerning the influence 9 
ſecular . were not nene nN I wut)” na 
OR: ale Fires 

F chte are | all now on à * at 3 | Os 
Carey and I have been taking ſweet counſel together ove 
your letters. We live in great harmony, love one anothe, 
and always long to ſee each other when but a little while 
ſeparated. He comes on very rapidly in learning the lar 
guage, and has greatly forwarded. COD and labon 
oy way in the EY moſt br r WW 


115 Monus 8 is; now. at  Mudnabatty : he "ſeem 
highly pleaſed with the ceremonial; waſhings of the My 
ſaic diſpenſation, and deſires to know if in theſe ceremonies 
the Hindoos are not nearer the Bible than we are. Pax. 
-BOTEE is ſtill ſome hundreds of miles from us, but we ex 
pect to ſee him. RAM RAM Bosnoo is gone about four 
hundred miles another way, to ſee his family, and I beliege 
- -he intends to bring them hither if he can. 
I have a pundit to aſſiſt me in the tranſlation, whoſe 
name is Popo Loson, a native of that famous metropolis 
of Bengal learning, Nuddea. He begins to be very uſeful 
and has been at all times ready and willing, to tranſlate 
when called upon: but is quite ſilent when aſked, Ila 
think you of Chriſt? In every letter, however, when ad 
ſent, he ſtyles the Bible the true ſhaſter, and profeſſes to 
believe that it will overſpread the whole earth. He told 
me the other day, in converſation, that the Hindoo 
(amongſt many other ſuch diviſions) reckon the whole 
world to be made up of three ſorts of people; and as near!) 
as J can tranſlate his words, they are, © the diſſipated, tht 
proud, and the penitent.“ The diſſipated are ſuch as at 
fond of trifles, given to pleaſures, and ſenſual gratification 
of all kinds: the proud, ſuch as thirſt for honour, praise, 


e eq 
four 
lieve 

* 


y hoſe 
polis 
ſefuh 
nflate 
[hat 
1 ab- 
es to 
> told 
ndoos 
y hole 
ear] 
„ the 
8 ale 
1t10Ns 
raiſe, 


L 207 1 


power 5 grandeur, and great things in this Life.: and che ps 


nitent, ſuch as have caſt away al theſe things, and are als 
ways buried in ſorrom before God, for the fin. and folly 
of which they»have been guilty. % Whether (faid he) 
there ever were ſuch perſons; as the penitent amongſt the 
Hindoos, or not, I cannot tell; but I know well there are 
no ſuch perſons'amongſt us now: there are anne 
I am unn en __ Engliſh”: wt e wo. e it 
, Annen — 1 

He has: Sa a 3 60 Aſham'd of Jeſus, put 
the tranſlation of it into good verſe, ſet it. to a tune, and 
engaged other brahmans to ſing it with him. After being 


ſick and abſent, her has told me with enn, that “ he 


thought he ſhould never ſee me again:“ for we are old 
acquaintances. This. is he who taught me what little I 
knew of Shanſcrit before I went over to England. He is 
a brahman' of courſe, but not of the order of PaRBOTEE, 
nor yet that een Sunne W ir 


| RT September 5 

WE are now . upon 2 a very agreeable * 
in our circumſtances; |-No more buildings; no more to 
learn of the art neceſſary to conduct the manufactory, 
except ſuch things as naturally occur to obſervation and 


experience; the noiſe of axes and hammers will now 


give place to the ſweet ſilence, of ſolitude and retire- 
ment, ſweetly broken by the echo of a ſong, à ſong of 
Zion: or the voice of one dear relation (dear where rela- 
tions are ſo rare) ot perhaps the ſweet. ſound. of a natives 
voice, when he cries out, . Chitiy, Chitty, Bolottee Chitty !“ 
— letter, a letter, an European letter! One letter from 
Europe, of only a ſingle ſheet, contains ſometimes ſweet 
and worn words, great and gon tidings, mingiee with 


2 The 451 of Rirron' 8 Selection. 
6 Ele 2 


„ —_ X 


— ——.—ä— re eg CE III 


— : | 1 
. — — 22 
® San. 2» 2 = = = 1 > — 
— ny l = — == — 
- _ o = :- = 1 * — 
- — — — — 2 2 2 * 
8 — * — = 8 8 hens — 
—— ' 994 — —— oo eee ru rr 4 ˙ ˙•—« -A —— — — —— — — 
. 


"Lot = 5 
— 2 s 
- — cc 
* — — — — — ———ð—,« —— 222 


8 1. 205 ] 


** diſeaſe, diſtreſs, n e ee fave all wow 
derfully happened in one ſhort year: for the death of: 
relation, acquaintance, or friend, is often as wonderful, 9 
striking at leaft, as though we had no Pere 2 _ 


| ved ws noms 7 


- Shall I. en a things: canon the _ 
Aitions of the natives? Brother CAREY obſerved thi 


morning at breakfaſt, ſpeaking of a brahman, who ſtood neu 


me, Phat is the firſt man I ever ſaw gape without fi. 
ping his fingers.“ The valgar people indeed neglect itz 


but the genteel and learned are fo punctual that if any boy 


degins to gape, they are ſure vo begin ſnapping their fing 
ers, that the bbots, or demons, may not id n 
hub, * deva, 2 others. 
| 4 day == 27. 
24 was ne of ee RODE . when I ben 
a voice crying out under my window; I looked out, aa 
ſaw a poor young girl lamenting the unhappy caſe of he 
ſiſter. On afking' what was the matter? the reply wa, 
Boot Laggreoſa, * a demon has feized her.“ I told her to po 
and bring her to me. She ran, and the people after her; 
and I hope in a few minutes I ſhall be able to tell you what 
is the matter; but theſe unhappy people fay Boot Laggecos 
Ia child newly born will not ſack; and they expoſe it 
to death in à baſket, hung on the branch of a tree. | Inderi 
if any ſudden calamity befal them, this is their exclami- 
tion. Well, we have been to ſee the child, as they ar 
afraid to bring it; and I have driven the $d0t out of 1hei 
Heads as well as I could, and ordered the child's feet to be 
3 gra into warm water. — 


Great numbers of the natives come Fug various par 
continually, and I intend to ere& an hoſpital for them, if 
ſhould live, and ever be able; but it muſt bg a ſtraw one, 


[ 209 } 

vhich is the kind of habitation they: are accuſtomed to. 
This may eventually lead den to Hin n able to mos 
them to the uttermoſt, > K 


The Mahometans and Hindoos, I think, are perfectly 


God; but all over this country theſe two different bop 
pay divine honouts to departed ſaints, angels, or gods: 

| that under every great tree; and in every high place, we % 
the ſigns of a perr, or a drvta ;* for theſe are the gwo names 
by which the god or ſpirit is always called. The ſaint of 
the Mahometans is called prer; of the Hind6os, devta: - The 
former is diſtinguiſhed by a little pile of bricks and mots 
tar two or three feet high, a lamp that is occaſionally lights 
ed, and little images of clay forhewhat reſembling horſes and 
elephants, burnt red like our earthen- ware. Theſe images 
are to give pleafure to the peer, who is the departed ſpirit 
of ſome devour perſoh that has been buried near that ſporz 
and where two roads croſs each other. They bring offers 
ings of rice, cakes, fruits, ſpices, &c. to the peer; and hays 


(who perhaps can neither read nor r write) ay then fall to, 
and eat them up. 

The vs they make to the peer are very WATER 
If a man want ſucceſs in any undertaking, he goes to the 


5 peer, bows his head to the earth two or three times, and 
— then addreſſes him: If you will give me this good luck, 


* I will bring you a very fine offering.” Afterwards, if the 
4 thing he defired come to paſs, he will bring the offering 
if not, he will not bring an atom. 


7 


parts . Sometimes ſpete DzzTA, and at others DewrTa, by writers on Hin- 
61 400 mythology, NY as the word is n pronounced in different 
1 dart of the country. | 


i 


unanimous in the | acknowledgment of one Supreme 


ing got ſome perſon to pronounce ſome words of the korafi 


r 


—— — — 


. 2 —ů ———— ſ— ß: mea ce a 


Ne _—s 


* | 
66 
LR | 
1. 4 
4 
1 | 
1 ' 
1 | 
Ny. ö 
1204 
4 
: 0 
N 


1 220 1 


Sometimes the reſidence. of a peer is formed into 4 
tecdale, and kept very clean, and at a diffance it has de 
appearance of a beautiful edifice. 


But I muſt ſay a word or two of the devtas. Theſe ar 
alſo in high places, and under large trees; and their re. 
dences are, commonly diſtinguiſhed by a ſtone: out of ſome 
old ruins. A: ſtone, you muſt. know, is a great rarity in 
Bengal; but formerly, when the country was much mor 
rich — populous, the wealthy inhabitants brought then 
down from the mountains two or three hundred miles 
off, and built moſques, temples, and tombs with then, 
moſt of which now lie in ruins ; but to proceed ; this ſtone 
is ſet up at one end, and daubed with a little ſcarlet 
colouring: ſometimes it 1s made. into. a temple, &c. as be- 
fore, but diſtinguiſked from thoſe of the Mahometans by: 
different maſonry, and this red ſtuff, and the flowers which 
are daily offered and firewed about the place, The denn 
is not ſuppoſed to be a departed ſpirit, but an inferior god: 
and any perſon may put up a ſtone and daub it over, and 
offer flowers, and cry devta; but at firſt ſome will fay, 
&« devia hi, there is a deyta: others, e deuta nai, there is 
no devta; till after ſome time it is determined in the nege- 
tive, if the place be neglected and forſaken; or if conti- 
nued and obſerved by many, worſhippers, for a length of 
time, chen, the matter is beyond all doubt 0 * devta hi. Me. 


55 e e,, , d att lth 08 el 


p. have. juſt left off converſation 1 a very mel 
gent brahman ; his name is Raaz KEESHORE. He has 
not confined himſelf to their pedantic ſtudy, but baving been 
educated for commercial undertakings, has been abroad 
and ſeen the world. He is now in rather reduced circum- 
ſtances, but has heretofore been a man of property. | 
aſked him very many queſtions about Boutan, a mountain. 
ous country beyond the company's frontiers, about a hul- 


the 


utt 


LR ] 

ired miles, or perhaps leſs, to the north of 'doypauldiggy. 
| wiſh I could give you a better account of it; but this is 
the firſt opportunity I have had of hearing from an intelli- 
gent perſon any thing about it. He ſays the country is di- 
vided into ſmall, independent kingdoms ; the people altoge- 
ther different from the Mahometans and Hindoos. No 
caſt, fond of Engliſh cloth (for it ſuits their cold country) 
and very fond of the Engliſh diet but exceſſively jealous of 
the Engliſh. They appear to be of a complexion between 
the Europeans and Bengaleſe. As to their religion, I can. 
not learn what it is; it ſeems to be a moſt offenſive and 
odious kind of paganiſm; but they are not at all remarkable 
for their religion, as are the Hindoos, 


— 


September 30. 
Laſt night I cloſed with ſome account of my conver- 
ſation with the brahman Raaz KEESHOR E, concerning 
the country of Boutan, Since then we have had man 

hours converſation ont the vedes and ſhaſters, and the 
haller of ſhaflers.* 1 faithfully told him all that 1 could 
utter. I felt unſpeakable pleaſure in this propoſition— 
« Every thing concerning God is great.“ „O brahman 
(aid I) the very worſt enemy you ever had, he that would 
cut your throat with pleaſure, were he to ſee you in; hell 
with the wrath of God upon you, the fearful fight would 
break his heart with horror and pity!” Here I told him 
of the caſe of Dives and Lazarus. I then introduced that 
good old ſimile in a new form: if, ſaid I, an ant was to go 
from hence to Boutan, to fetch earth from the mountains, 
and each load would take fix months; when the ant had 
fetched away all the mountains of Bautan, and placed them 
in Mappaul fields, the wrath of God would abide on you 
ſtill as freſh as ever! After this I diſcourſed to him on the 
goodneſs of God, and the riches of his grace. | 


* The Bible. 


K * r R * x 
"EY 8 n R N > 
| 
. 
: e 
ol 
4, 
* - 


| | 
| 


CLOS — 


© en ˖ 


1 _ — c 4 4 
it BI MEAS 


— 
© ITT 


S 
. 
2 — 22 8 
== £2 2—— —-— 
- 


L 216 ] 
We expected to begin printing this year, but are og 


able to do it at preſent. Brother Carty. labours hard + bo 

the language, he tranſlates much, and is in great repu the 
amongſt the n 3 and, I ene have Ne wich eve 

body elſe. | x. 

We hw received the ſtationary, &c. but what a %o 

plorable ſtate muſt we and our families have been in til Mi © 

now, had not the providence. of God put us into ſome en i '* 

ROT Refs | vu 

VIC 

Your's, &c, | tol 

| | log 

J. I. vet 

— — | un 

| an) 

pat 

Mugnabatty, Aug. 14, 1794. anc 

YOUR very affectionate letter gladdened my heat, log 

wiſh I could often enjoy ſuch a refreſhment, * 

on 

We re an aſſembly for religious worſhip here, and 4 

church would have been formed, but for the providence q 8 

a young man being taken with a dangerous illneſs, who C 

Was to have been baptized on the day appointed for forming * : 

the church ; but we intend to incorporate ſoon. My cats ; 

gregation is wholly of natives, except my own family, au , 

my aſſiſtant, who is a native Portugueſe, and a Roman c 

. he has been with me only a week or two, a 4 

begins to liſten after the word, and to make ſome enqu- Wi .... 

ries about it. thei 

to h 

The Bengalee is colerably n to me now, but I 


find ſome difficuly in keeping the congregation fron 
trifling and talking during the time of worſhip, I hate, 


213 1 


nowever, conſiderable: enjoyment in the worſhip of ay 
though at proſens, no great good is done. 


- 


il When firſt intradchsd amongſt the natives, 1 formed 
much better opinion of their morals, and cuſtoms, than 1 
ought to have done; and, I believe, ſome others have formed 


& a worſe opinion than they ought. They are certainly a 
i very perfidious and deceitful people, bound in the chains of 
1 c 


innumerable ſuperſtitions, and very ſervile in their beha- 
viour. Many of them are men of good learning, but in- 
tolerable pedants. They are very much addicted to aſtro- 
logical conceits, and have a firm faith in conjuring to pre- 
5 vent calamities. Their kalendar is full of lucky and 

unlucky days, and no one of them can be perſuaded to do 

any thing of importance on a day that is deemed unlucky. 

Their idols are innumerable; but they are confeſſedly the 

| patrons of ſome art, or the like; or are conſidered as local, 
9% and theſe are worſhipped on their proper days. Their theo- 
61 logy, however, is much more refined. They acknowledge 
only one God, whom they call EsHAR, or BaoGABON 

ſometimes by the Perſian word Knopa, and the Muſſel- 
ans uſe ALLA. They fay, that from God proceeded 
three perſonal virtues, or powers; namely, BIRMMHA, 
who the creator of all; VEESHNo, the preſerver of all; and 
SEEB, the deſtroyer of all; who will at laſt deftroy all 
things. BIRMMHA is not worſhipped at all; VEESHNO 


elt is a circumſtance equally curious as true, that there at this day 
exiſts throughout Hindoſtan ſcarcely any one temple ſacred to Bxanma 
in his individual character of Creator; nor, though in honor of Vezsunu 
and SEEVA numerous feſtivals crowd the Hindoo almanac, is one day 
peculiarly conſecrated to BAHMA. The Brahmans alone, in memorial of 
their original deſcent from BRAHNMA, every morning, at ſun-riſe, perform 
to his honor the Sandivane, or ablution in the Ganges, or ſome ſacred 
Tank. In all other reſpects, his functions and worſhip ſeem to be abſorbed 


in that of VE ESN v, in whoſe temples he is ſculptured with four heads 
and four arms Dy 


Indian Antiquities, vol. v. p. 851. 


Ff 


9 


only by few; but SE EEB by almoſt all. One of his temply 
is near my houſe; and Mr. THoMAs, myſelf, and:/Moonſhee 
kept a day of prayer in it very lately. This idol is made d 
| None, and is about four feet in circumference. I deliyer. 
ed your letter to Moonſhee, and he intends to a. 
ſwer it. | 


: Yours. 
. e 
; —— EI one 
Ram Ram Bos nOO t Mr. M Clipftone. * 


Mudnabatty, Aug. 17, 1793. 
SAHIB, 8 | 


I RECEIVED your letter, and the portraits of eight 
ſpiritual men, + by means of my maſter, t Mr, Cary, 
My maſter and Mr. Thon As arrived here in godl 
health, Many people in this country, and myſelf, has. 
ing heard Mr. THOMAs's diſcourſes about the coming d 
JEsus CnRIST into this world, received great joy there 
by. Other ſhaſters, when compared with this, are of 
little value. Since the coming of Mr. Trnomas thi 
time, and Mr. Carey, I have been employed as amanuet- 
ſis in the tranſlation of the Bible; and from this we ar 
getting the knowledge of many ſpiritual things. I ſup 
poſe that from that time to this, this ſhaſter would have bee! 


The original letter was written in Bengalee, and accompanied vil 
this tranſlation by Mr. C. | 


N + Mr. M. had ſent ſo many portraits of goſpel miniſters out of the Chri- 
. tian's Magazine. 


+ 7 Ram Bosnoo is employed and ſupported by Mr, Cazzr in the c- 
city of a teacher of the Bengalee language. 


te 


e cap# 


— 


[ 215 


received cordially, but in this 3 country there is a 
cuſtom, not founded on any ſpiritual law (viz.) the ca; 
which is ſo much regarded, that though they will leave 
their religious laws, yet they cannot bring themſelves to 
throw off the caſt. But if God ſhould work effectually, 
then it would be. However, we think it a token for 
good, that Mr. Thoms, when he went to England, 
brought back with him another ſpiritual man; and from 
this we think that God will ſave ſome of the people of this 
country by the Goſpel. Beſides, being employed in the 
tranſlation, I ſing hymns, and aſſiſt in the preaching of the 


| Goſpel, You will know all by my maſter's letters. Now, 


O fir; O ye ſpiritual people, pray for us, that the Goſpel | 
may effectually reach our hearts! 


My maſter and his ib are well; when you have 
opportunity, write to me of your welfare. This is all. 


SHREE RAM RAM BOSHOO. 


By our date, 4. ; Badur, 1202, from the Moors taking Delhi, 


— — 
Mr. CaREY, to Mr. P—— Birmingham. 


Otober 2, 1795. 


YOURS, dated March 27, 1795, I received a fav 
days ago, which was the ſecond ꝓeceipt of letters ſince I 
have been in Bengal; and except the goods ſent out in the 
Royal Admiral, no article, no remittance, no letter, has 
reached us; ſo that, had you come inſtead of your letter, the 
ſurpriſe would have been great indeed, 


All I can fay muſt "W about ourſelves. Egotiſin is 
tedious, but I will ſend you all the news I can. I cannot 
0 


* 


* 


week days I take opportunities of converſing with the m. 
tives about eternal things. That part of the Bible which 


1 216 1 


indeed ſend you any account about ſinners flocking to Chrif, 
or of any thing very encouraging in that reſpeCt ; but! 
can ſend you an account of ſome things which may be 
viewed as forerunners to that work which God will cer. 
tainly perform. The name of | Jeſus Chriſt is no longe 
ſtrange in this neighbourhood, and Moonfſhee's hymn * i; 

often ſung, eſpecially that part of it, Kee aroo taree 1 
pareetee Lord'o Feſus'o Chriflo bee na go O who cn 
fave ſinners, except the Lord Jeſus Chrift.” We hay 
public worſhip conftantly every Lord's-day, and it is cos. 
dufted in the manner of the Engliſh churches. On the 


is tranſlated has been read to ſeveral hundreds of the m. 
tives; and I truſt will gain ground. / One of my great 
difficulties ariſes from the common people being fo ex. Wi to 
tremely ignorant of their own language, and the various no 
dialets which prevail in different parts of the country, 

Though I can preach an hour with tolerable freedom, ſo 
that all who ſpeak the language well, or can read or write, il © 
can perfectly underſtand me; yet the labouring people can ih ®* 
underſtand but little. Notwithſtanding the language itſelf Wi © 
is rich, beautiful, and expreſſive; yet the poor people, th 
whoſe whole concern has been to get a little rice to ſatisfy * 
their wants, or to cheat their oppreſſive merchants and 8 
zemindars, have ſcarce a word in uſe about religion. They W 
have no word for love, for repent, and a thouſand other 

things; and every idea is expreſſed either by quaint phraſes 

or tedious circumlocutions. A native who ſpeaks the 5 
language well, finds it a year's work to attain their idiom. 


This ſometimes diſcourages me much, but bleſſed be Gol g 
I feel a growing defire to be always abounding in the Bi - 
work of the Lord; and I know that my labour will not be WW g 


in vain in the Lord. I am encouraged by our Lord's ex- 


« See the cloſe of No. I. 0 


127 ] 


i, WY preſſion, © He that reapeth (in this harveſt) receiveth wages, 
nd gathereth fruit unto eternal life,” If, like Davip, I 
be am only an inſtrument of gathering materials, and another 
der. build the houſe, I truſt my joy will not be the leſs. - 


bk The tranſlation of the Bible is going on, and it is to me 
: very pleaſant work. Geneſis, Exodus, Matthew, Mark, 
can and part of John and James, may be reckoned ready for 
ave the preſs. Printing is uncommonly expenſive here; and 
on. if types could be got from England, there are natives who 
the can do the buſineſs of compoſitors and preſſmen; and this 
nx would be the cheapeſt way. Mr. T. has a ſet of letters 
wich ft for types to be formed by, written for that purpoſe by a 
na. native who writes an excellent hand. I will. perſuade him 
reat to incloſe them to the Society this ſeaſon. We intended 


ex- ss have printed at our own expence, but at preſent are 
ious not able. ; 


„ 6 It rejoices my heart to hear of the willingneſs of any 
rite to engage as miſſionaries, may God confirm their hearts: 
can nd if ſucceſſors to us are ſent in time, it will be a wile ſtep, 
tek as our lives are uncertain, and it would be a great pity for 
ple the miſſion to be vacant two or three years, for want of 
isfy perſons acquainted with the language, and cuſtoms of the 
and country. You think of Africa: I rejoice, and hope you 
bey will perſevere. | PR 


If a little experience will entitle me to that privilege, I 
will offer a few words of advice. When your miffionaries 
leave England, they will of courſe be ſupplied with neceſ- 
ſaries, or may procure them at an Engliſh factory when 
they land, It will be to their comfort to ſet out on a low 
ſcale of living; and to be determined previouſly what 
courſe of life to purſue for a livelihood. I ſtill think that 
farming is preferable to any other : but there are many 
Gifficulties and diſappointments to be overcome; for birds, 


beaſts, and inſets will combine to deſtroy all. I would 
adviſe them to avoid all woody, unfrequented places, they 
are full of danger; and to chooſe an high, open ſpot. for 
their habitation. - "Theſe are very neceſſary cautions, if the 
lives and health of the miſſionaries be regarded. I would 


| alſo adviſe them to avoid ſleeping on the ground; If they 


carry out bedfteads and gauze curtains, to prevent the mil. 
quitos from biting them, it would be a good precaution, 
Without them they cannot live long. They will do wel 
to aſſociate as much as poſſible with the natives, and to 
write down every word of their language which they can 
catch, with its meaning: but if they have children with 
them it is far the readieſt way of learning; for they wil 
catch up every idom in a little time. My children cn 
ſpeak nearly as well as the natives; and know many thing 
in — which they do not know in Engliſh. * 


I ſhould alſo recommend to your eonfbderntios a very 
large country, perhaps unthought of, I mean Boutan, a few 
datory of Thibet. Were two miſſionaties ſent to thit 


| country, we ſhould have it in our power to afford then 


much aſſiſtance. If we knew of their coming, we coul 
previouſly order means for their ſettling there; could afiſ 
them with many neceſſaries; ſometimes ſee them, and 
keep up a regular communication with them once in three 


A fimilar inſtance of the facility wherewith children acquire the idiom 
of a language, and are thereby very helpful to a miffionary, is noticed in 


the hiſtory of Mr. EcxDx's labours in Greenland. The language of that 


country (ſays the Hiſtorian) gave Mr. E. no little trouble, becauſe he ws 
continually obliged to quit phraſes that he imagined he had perfectly under. 
ſtood but a week before. However, his children, through converſe with 
the Greenland children, -learnt it more eaſily and fundamentally ; and could 
generally give him a ſolution of his queries. By their aſſiſtance he began! 
Greenland Grammar, and tranſlated ſome parts of, the Goſpels. He allo 
made ufe of his eldeſt ſon in the inſtruction of the ene becauſe 


ys could better underſtand him.“ 0 


Cranz's Hiſtory, vol. 1. p. 307. 


[ 219 1 


weeks or a month, at a ſmall expence, as we are within 
about one hundred miles of the borders of that country. 
have ſeen the mountains that border upon it; and I be- 
lieve that the climate is tolerably temperate. Mr. THO- 
Mas and myſelf have ſome thoughts of making a journey 
into that country; and ſhould we do ſo, of ſecuring a 
place there for ſome ſuch purpoſe. I much wiſh the 
Society to turn their thoughts to this part of the world. 


Now, dear brother, adieu! Mercy and truth be with 
you. I hope the ſcarcity, of European letters will be re- 
compenſed to us by a multitude in future. I have received 
no letters from many of my brethren, nor any from my 
dear friends at  Leicefler. I rejoice much to hear of their 
welfare; tell them I ſtill love them in the Lord. I know 
you pray for us. We do the ſame for you. May God 


| anſwer all our prayers ! I juſt ſay, we are well, which is 


a great mercy, as this is the time of the breaking up of the 
rains. The utmoſt love and harmony prevail between my 
colleague and myſelf. My ſincere love to all your friends, 


to all the dear miniſters, churches and acquaintances in 
* | 


Your's, &c. ; 
W. C. 
Mr. Tromas t Dr. R Brifttt. 


- _ Moypauldiggy, Oct. 4, 27952 
I TAKE it for granted, that amidſt all your great 
and important labours in the church of God, it will be 
agreeable to hear from your miſſionaries in the Eaſt, We 
cannot ſay that the miſſion has been bleſſed with that vi- 
ible ſucceſs we could wiſh. Never was a people more 


[ 220 ] 


willing to hear never was a people more flow to under. 
ſtand yet I dare not ſay that mo ſucceſs has attended u 
and we may be caſting that bread on the waters which r 
ſhall be found after many days. Since taſting the ſocial 
pleaſures of religion in England, I have felt more thay 
ever the gloom of my lonely ſituation here. The letter 
of religious friends in Europe have proved very quicken. 
ing and refreſhing to me. Do write, I ſhall read it with avi. Nin | 
dity ; I ſhall eat and drink your word; and you may do 
as much good to the miſſion, as ſome have done to the | 
commercial intereſts of this country, by ſending a bit of iſ: f 
prickly pear plant, with the cochineal inſect living on is Muti 
In the hands of the original owner it was not worth ſix iſo, 
pence, but it may prove here eventually to be worth cam 
millions. | 


Should any more brethren come out to us, I think [ 
ſhould receive them with rapture ; and to have a few more 
would greatly ſtrengthen our hands, and tend to eſtabliu met 
the work in which we have engaged. If any ſhould cone Go 
over, the earlieſt notice ſhould be given us, as we are ten 
days journey from the place where the ſhips come to; 
and for an European, on his firſt arrival, to have to go 
up for ſo many days againſt a rapid ſtream, without any 
knowledge of the country or the language, is a very di- 
treſſing thing. By being unacquainted with the BoRt, 
many Europeans have loſt their lives. 


The Bore (or Boar) is a great phænomenon here. 
It is the flood-tide ſetting into the river with great vio 
lence; and it is greater ſome months of the year, and it 
ſome ſeaſons of the moon, than at others. Its approach 
may be heard many miles off, and it ſounds like the roat- 
ing of the ſea on a ſurfy beach. In deep water it great 
agitates the ſhips and veſſels, and in ſhallow waters carrie 
every thing before it, toſſing over the largeſt boats in 3 


vs Wie * 


moment ; yet in à few minutes it is gone by, only followed 
p by a rapid ſtream, by which the river is augmented ten 


or fiftcen feet in two or three minutes. Many lives are 


oſt eyery Year through ; ignorance, or, inattention 3 other- 


Wiſe, the, danger is not great, becauſe there are places 


42 


enow in the river where the bank is Keep, and the water 
jeep—There you are ſafe. The exact time of its coming 
in may alſo be foreknown. b x have ſeen this bore coming 

in againſt a briſk. wind with a fearful noiſe, and from its 
white: frothy brow the wind blew, a ſtreamer that would 
be lying many yards long behind it; and a boat with ſome 


(natives in it had nearly reached he ſhore (ten yards. more 


would have ſecured them) when. in a moment the bore 
came up with them, and I ſaw them no more, till alter a 
while two were found, and one was loſt with the boat 
the nati ves all Om well. 


I muſt con lade. | | Notwithſtanding | our diſcourage- 
ments, I indulge a hope, that through this very miſſion the 
Goſpel will certainly ſpread over all Hindaſtan into Tar- 
jary itſelf, and cover all the mountains above, and all the 
valleys below us—ſpread in Bengalee, Bootanee, Perſian, 
Shanſcrit, and other languages to us yet unknown and 
unheard of; and then the devil himſelf may ys ws W 
how great a matter a little fire kindlet n)“, 


Your's, &c, 


— ; ' f 
Mr. Congo, to Mr. P Sn ie 


Mudnabatty, Dec. 315 1795· 
HITHERTO I am preſerved by a very gracious God, 
whoſe mercy is continually watching over me; and by 
G g 


— — — — 7˙E• ñ̃ A — 
0 \ 
* 


242 


his'goodnefs 1 enjey 4 Vety "good Rate of health and yy 
kits, as does alſo my colleague. Had we but a greats 
ſhare of zeal for God than we have, we ſhould no doubt l 
in labours more abundant than we are: for my own part] 
babe great reaſon to complain of my indolence. [th 
true 1 £0 from place to place preaching and converſing 
about the thi ings of the kingdom, and no man can have4 
ner opportunity for publiſhing the word widely then! 
have, having dealings with the farmers of about two 
three” hotidred villages, to which I am going in rotation th 
ole” year, except about four months. This indel 
might be diſpenſed with, as it relates to Buſineſs, but I chil 
it on account of the G0 pl. I am juſt returned from 
tour in Which T have had frequent opportunities of on 
 Vetfitig about the things of God, and 1 have near me on 
young man, a brahman, whoſe mind feems'to be under ny 
ſerious impreſſions, which have continued for about three 
months, and 1 hope may end well; yet I cannot be fu 
guine in my expectations from any thing in the gened 
temper of the people, but only i in the promiſe of God. 


ST BESS 


Sbould you purſue the knowledge of the Hindoo ln 
ae it will no doubt have its use; but could you lea 


to read, and underſtand, and pronounce well all the book N 
that are written in that language, yet not one in a hundred 4, 
of the people would underſtand you, nor could you undet , 
ſtand them. So different is the language called Bengal 4 
(whick is ſpoken by the higher ranks of H indoos) fron 7 


the common language of the country, which is a mixtur 
of Bengalee, Hindoſtanee, Perſian, Portugueſe, Armenia, 
and Engliſh, that it is a mere jargon. I much queſtio 
whether Moonſhi can tranſlate the bible ſo as to be unde 
ſtood by the common people, and the leſs fo as there 5 
an alteration in their dialect every ten or twelve miles 


ndret 
Inder. 
1galee 

from 
ixturt 
enian, 
eftion 


1ndet- 


ere b 
miles; 


t 288 } 
and if he could, I am perſuaded 1 that he would be aſhamed 
of writing language | ſo completely ungrammatical. y : wc 


I have tranflated the goſpel by John, and the eilte to 
the Galatians myſelf, without Bis help; and the common 


| people underſtand it much better than his; e it would 


be ſcouted by all above the rank of a rmer. This, 
however, does not affect me; for if n. ideas ars 
but conveyed, my end | is . %. Pit 


4 4 5 mn I 
iin EX Mi nnen 


I have been trying to conijjols 2 e grammar 
of the language, which I ſend you, together with a feu 
pages of the Mahabbarat, with a tranſlation, which I wrote 
out for my own exerciſe in the Bengalee. The Mahab- 
barrat is one of their ſhaſters, much eſteemed, 'and more 
generally read than any other. I have alſo begun to write 
a dictionary of the language, but this will be a work of 
time ; and if I can afford to get a copy or two of ſome 
of the books of ſcripture written 'off ſoon, I will fend 
them alſo to you. | 


; 1 ; + 
z ;Þ 


It is thought in England that this country is fan of 
wonders ; but the contrary is the caſe. You ſee the fame 
idols and idolatry repeated over and over again continually. 
Their fears, their hopes, and all their ideas, run into a 
dull ſameneſs; their manners all alike; no new invention 
among them; the ſame prejudices againſt the goſpel among 
them all ; and thus with every thing belonging to them. 
As to religious knowledge, the poor have none * «nd 


The ignorance of the inferior caſts is no matter of ſurpriſe wh it is 
conſidered, that „ the tribe of bramins alone is allowed to read the vedas 
lor ſacred books) ; and they explain them as they pleaſe to the other three 
tribes, who receive implicitly the interpretation of their prieſts.” 

Indian Antiquities, vol. iv. p. 485, 
Gun | g 


NE — —— —— — —— 


[ 224 J 


the ralnins, big very 7 few excepted, are extremely i ignorant; 
very few ſchools, and no value ſet on learning. I hay 
ſet up a ſchool, but am obliged to pay ſomething to the 
ſcholars. to induce them to come; yet goſpel knowledy 


encreaſes, and 1 think in our neighbourhood the goſpe ] 
ſcheme is underſtood by. ſome hundreds of people; they 
can all interpret my meaning to others, who have ng pe. 
heard the word from me, though their heatheniſh attach. tai. 
ments in a manner undo all again, and their dread of the bro 
Vengeance of their GUY, and countrymen keeps them ſti) cor 
in bondage. tin 
" Narwrkbflae bing: all this, ſome hopeful ſymptoms ap- 4 
pear; for by hearing the goſpel I have obſerved a gradul 
and increaſing boldneſs in ſeveral, in ſpeaking againſt ther th, 
own cuſtoms, and in favour of the goſpel ; and as this become; * 
more and more habitual to them, there is ſome reaſon u Kh 
hope, that, what is now only words, may, by the divine - 
bleſſing, iſſue in actions; and that the ſuperſtitions of ih ., 
Eaſt may gradually die away under the ſound of the goſpel 5 
\T'n1s is the end at which my ſoul aims, and J truſt that of 
J feel more and more enjoyment in the work of a mi. u 
ſionary, as I become more acquainted with the language, be 
and find my diſcourſes better underſtood by them. 
1 hope the miſſion may be carried on vigorouſly : a wit Will , 
world is lying in wickedneſs :—here is room for, and wat , 


of two or three thouſand in Hindeſtan— had almoſt faid 
in Bengal. 


Your's, &c. 
| W. C. 


1 225 


© Mr. Carty to the Serie. 
enn, Dec. 30, 179 5. 
Dax BRETHREN, 
SINCE my laſt, I have waited with anxious ex- 
tion to receive letters from you; I am however cer- 
tain, that the tie with which we are united, cannot be 


broken by length of time, diſtance of place, or any of the 
common intervening incidents of life, but that we [hall con- 


| tinue to love one another in all ſituations, whether proſper- 


ous or adverſe, 


To the pleaſing 88 of our bodily 1 and 
that of our children, I can now add, that a Baptiſt Church 
is formed in this diſtant quarter of the globe: our mem- 
bers indeed are but four in number, viz. Mr. THOMAS, 
myſelf, a Mr. Loxs, who had been baptized by Mr. T. 
when he was in India before, and a Mr. PowEL, who ac- 
companied him from England, whom I baptized on the firſt 
of November this year, on which day we were ſolemnly 
united as a church of Chriſt, and the Lord's aas has 


been adminiſtered amongſt us twice. 


Mr. Powel is a very hopeful young r man; he burns 
with zeal for the converſion of the heathen, and 1 hope 
will prove a valuable acquiſition to the miſſion, 


I am Juſt returned from a tour through abdic half the 
diſtrict in which my buſineſs lies. In this tour I took a 
boat for my lodging and the convenience of cooking my 
victuals, but performed the journey on foot, walking from 


| twelve to twenty miles a day; and preaching, or rather 


converſing from place to es about the things of the 


——— 7272„7„5757„ꝙ2⸗2≅is ß ̃ ͤ . %⅛ PN ? 
4 4 . 
* * 


1 226 1 


kingdom of God. This plan I intend to purſue Ratedly 
the whole of the dry ſean, beſides occaſional. journeys 0 


leſs e extent, of | 
1 = not yet ſeen e fruit of my labours; 3 the moſt I 

I can ſay, is of a young man about eighteen years of age, 1 Wi and 
brahman, who has appeared very thoughtful for ſome time, WAN (cal 
and frequently converſed with much feeling about his eter. Wi thi: 
nal concerns. I pray God it may end well, His concen Wl Ex 
has continued now nearly three months, and appears n. if the 
ther to increaſe than otherwiſe. His name is Cass1nur by 
MooxnurGEs. Moonſhee has been gone to viſit his Jol 
family for three months, and Monun CHUuND is now with ing 
me. Mr. Thomas and I have alſo received letters fron . hoj 
ſome people at Dinagepore, the capital of the diſtrict, whon Wl cor 
we have never ſeen; but having heard of the goſpel (by | 
Mohun Chund) they have ſolicited us to ſend a part of | 
the tranſlation of the holy ſcriptures to be ſent to them, de; 
A copy of their letter I ſhall incloſe,* | rag. ans lan 
#3 \- It f pe! 

Upon the gh I truſt the proſpect of the Grete ing 
of the heathen is not ſo gloomy as to give room for del. if th 
pondency ; the natural obſtacles, ſuch as ignorance of the ift 
language, &c. are in ſome meaſure ſurmounted; and we ch 
have the promiſe of God that the moral ones ſhall alſo be of 
overcome. an 
With reſpect to myſelf, 1 have great texſon to han 1 
the want of more zeal for God; and, for the encourage. . 
ment of others I may ſay, that if the Lord ſhould at al 5 
bleſs my labours, none need fear to lay themſelves out for n 
him; yet I have lately had ſome comfortable revivals of 1 
ſoul, and find increafing pleaſure in preaching the goſpel n 
m 


® See it at the end of our brethren's correſpondence in this Number. 


U r 


to the i * wil NN £9 on in in the firengeh of 


| he Lord Hoh and make mention of | his Wee a 


I find the ee of the bible a delightful employ; 
and am occupied in it every day. Should I be thought 
ſcanty in my correſpondence with my dear friends in Europe, 
this may ſerve as, an apology. In addition to Geneſis, + 
Exodus, Matthew, Mark, and James (which are ready for 
the preſs) we have entered on Leviticus, with the 19 0 
by Luke, and. the Acts of the Apoſtles. The goſpel by 
John, and the epiltle to the Galatians only want correct- 


ing; and as eVery thing elſe muſt give way to this work, I 


hope before Yu INE" wann "Pow. that ait more e will'b wo 
Wfl. 0 


"The indes and Moffalmins are di in a W 
deplorable ſtate with reſpect to eternal things. Though the 
land is full of idols, yet I do not know that the bulk of the 
people ever worſhip them with an expectation of obtain- 
ing any thing for the ſoul. They univerſally tell me that 
their debtas, whoſe images they worſhip, have a power to 
afflict their perſons, to ſpoil their crops, and to kill their 
children, and will infallibly do this if they neglect to make 
offerings to them; ſo that, from what I can learn, bodily 
and carnal fear is the only ſpring of all their worſhip. The 
intereſts of the ſoul are much neglected by them: often, 
when I have aſked them, Whether they expect to go to 
heaven or hell after death? I have received for anſwer, 
„What can I fay? It will be as God pleaſes.” A few 
days ago 1 aſked a pundit, who had been very ill, where he 
ſhould have gone had he died? And, though he was a man 
who knew the goſpel ſcheme well, his reply was, I can- 
not ſay exactly, but I think I ſhould have gone to hell.” I 


228 J 
told him the way of life was plain: he ſaid, “ all depends! 

pon the will of God whether he ſhould walk in it or no 
Len this to be the univerſal excuſe of all th 
Hindoos, I aſked him, If he was deſirous to walk in it 
and told him, that if he Was, there was no room to dout 
the willingneſs of God; becauſe he had himſelf remoyed 
all doubt on that head: but I could not perceive what! 
ſaid to have any effect upon him; he i is in ſome reſpeds x 
promiſing, character notwithſtanding; his name is Pong 
Loson. 5 


5 e ee Aalia, oor 11, 17 
15 1 WISH to ſay 4 about the manner of my 
preaching, but ſcarcely know how; however, as a ſpeci 
men, I will juſt deſcribe one ſeaſon at a large village about 
four miles from Mudnabatty, called Chinſurah. I went 
one Lord's-day afternoon: to this place, attended by a fey 
perſons. from Mudnabatty. When I got. into the town | 
ſaw an idolatrous temple finely. built with bricks. In order 
to excite. attention, I aſked What place that was? They 
ſaid it was a 1hakooranee, that is, a ſhe debta. I aſke 
if it was alive? They faid, yes. Well, ſaid I, I will ſee 
her, and accordingly went towards the place; when they 
all called out, No, fir, no; it is only a ſtone,” I hoy- 
ever, mounted the ſteps, and began to talk about the folly 
and wickedneſs of idolatry. , A bazar, or market, near at 
hand was very noiſy, I therefore removed to a little diſtance 
under a tamarind tree, where we began by ſinging the 
hymn, Oh who beſides can deliver!” By this time a 
pretty large concourſe of people were aſſembled, and I began 
to diſcourſe with them upon the things of God. It is ob- 
vious. that giving out a text, and regularly dividing it, 
could not be of any uſe to thoſe who never heard a wor! 
of the Bible. in their lives. I therefore dwelt upon the 


1 £29 ] 

worth of the ſoul; its fallen Rate, the dull of all. men who 
had broken God's righteous law, and the impoſſibility of 
obtaining paidon at the expence of the honours of divine 
juſtice, 1 then, enquired, What way of life (or ſalvation) 
duaßlent with the righteouſneſs of God, was propoſed in 
any of their ſhafters? 5 They, aid I, ſpeak of nine incar- 
© nations: of VEESHNO paſt, and one to come; but not one 
© of them is pretended to be for the ſalvation of a ſinner; 
« They wete, only to preſerve a family, kill à giant, make 
© war againſt tyrants, &c. all which God could as Well 
© have accompliſhed without theſe incarnations, The in- 
carnation of à deity, I added; is a matter of too great 
importance to take place in fo ludierous a” manner, and 
c for ſuch x mean 10 85 e "Phe _— EL 


i t 


5 2406 a wild hog a tortoiſez a thing half lion and beth endl 4 
little dwerf, who begged three ſteps ſpace of land to build him an hut, and 


then became ſp large as to meaſure earth with one pace, 3 
ther, and Wer Ry. 15655 room for thy third in he univerſe, &c. | 


+ The 8 term, AVATAR fignifies a Dx $C2Kx T—the arcade; of 


theſe deſcents is indeed | declared by VIESsUNO himſelf in the form of 
CxreSiNA, Who in the Geeta thus addreſſes ARzJyv: : Both I and thou 
have paſſed many births; mine are known to me, but thou knoweſt nat o 


thine. Although 1 am not in my nature ſubject to birth or decay, and am 
the lord of all ereatad beings, yet having command over my own natute, 1 
an made evident by my own ppwerz and as often as there is a decline of 
virtue, and an inſurrectiom of vice and injuſtice in the world, I make myſelf 
evident; and thus I appear from age to age, for the preſervation of the juſt, - 
the deſtruction of the wicked, and the eſtabliſhment of virtue.” 


The three firſt Avatars (the Matſya, the Vara, and the Courma) have 
deen ſuppoſed to be alluſions to the VN1VERSAL DELVGE; and indeed 
there are ſuch ſtriking coincidences between the brihminical accounts of 
them, and the moſaic account of that great event, as ſtamp a high degree of 
plauſibility on the conjecture. The reader may refer for much curious infor- 
mation on this ſubject to MAURICE's Hiſtory of Hindoſtan, vol. i. p. 553, * 


H h 


[ 230 |] 


©(ot avatar) you know, was to become the rudder o: 00 
boat, and preſerve a family in a great flood; and the wi i 
© hog. incarnation was to kill a giant, and draw up the 
© earth out of the ſea when it was ſinking; but this, Gul 


© who created it, might have eaſily accompliſhed without 1 
© any ſuch interpoſition. I obſerved how 'miſerable t 0 
muſt be whoſe whole religion only reſpected the body, anl 
whoſe ſhaſters could point out no ſal vation for the' ſoul 1 
Then 1 ſpake of the Ou of life by Chrift,: his wn i p 
” us, &c. : 
ing 
e n 5 preabod. them Gris being u, 
bleſs,. in turning every one from their iniquities. (Acts iii, 20.) % 
1 obſerved the ſuperiority of the goſpel to all other writ. l 
ings, and of Chriſt to all pretended ſaviours in th Wl * 
point, that BELIEVING ON CHRIST WAS/UNIVERSALLY 
ACCOMPANIED WITH TURNING FROM INIQUITY ; al Bi ,. 
I contended that their worſhip muſt be falſe; for thy WW n 
made images and offerings to them, and were abundant in 10 
their worſhip ; but, ſaid I, there is not a man of you yet _ 
turned from his iniquity. ' There are, I continued, among 4 
you, liars, thieves, whoremongers, and men filled with decat;* 
and as you were laſt year, ſo you are this: not any mor 
holy, nor can you be, till you throw off your wicked wor- tig 
ſhip and idolatrous practices, and embrace the goſpel of our 
Lord Jeſus Chriſt. | 
This is the method of presching that I uſe amory 
them: nothing of this kind appears to give them offence. 
Many wiſh to hear, but many abhor the thoughts of the 
® Theſe are all fins for which the Hindoos are notorious, and there i dot 
a company of ten men, I believe, to be met with, to whom you might u 
fafely addreſs theſe words. All the good that can with juſtice be ſaid in favou 17 


of them is, they are not ſo ferocious as many other heathen, 


JC 


8 231 1 


golpel: the bramins fear to loſe their gain, the * 
| caſts their honour, and the poor tremble at: the: wee 
of their debtas. 


Sometimes I preach twice a week, ſometimes twice a 
day, as opportunity preſents itſelf; and the tranſlation of 
the word of God is * every day's work. 8 


I am glad a, nition to Africa is intended. God — 
it t proſperous ! Think of Thibet, Pegu, and the aſtoniſh- 
ing large part of Hindeſtan to the Welt and the North, 
Thibet is near us; we could correſpond with a miſſion at 


Peg, or any part of the Rohillas country, Oude, Caſhmeer, 


Kabul, &c. though very far from us; but I know your zeal z 
may God give you reſources equal to it | 


I long to know more of the ſtate of the churches, | 
About politics I feel no concern. I ſee the Calcutta papers, 
and I think that as the people of Europe have fallen out, 
ſo they mutt fall in; but the religious fate of the world is 
very important, and the aſpects of the political world 
towards prophecy and the church of God. 


With my warmeſt wiſhes for your proſperity as chriſ- 
tians, as miniſters, as members of churches, and as a ſociety, 
| remain very affectionately, 

' Your's, &c. 


— —ñ—!ͥ ͥ 


Atr. CAREY ta Mr. H. , Olney. 


' Malda, Fan. 16, 170 


YOUR kind favour of the Zoth of September, 
1794, I received ſome little time ago, accompanied by 
your letters on miſſions ; and if any thing could afford me 


H h 2 


W. G. 


W 22 ] 


grviter pleaſure than che work [am engugut-in; it woul 16. 
be to find a corroboration of my own ſontaments in the WW (cul 
writings of others, | that 


I think with you that the number of miſſionaries are too 
few, and that a more general attack upon the heathen 
world ſhould be tmade—and the mahomedan world too 
But we muſt be obliged to labour under ſome diſcourage. 
ments at preſent, till the Lord of the harveſt ſhall thre 
| 1 7 1 into his harveſt. 


The Wa nas whom I labour are in ſome reſpech 
different from any other heathens, in this, that they have 
a written language ; and can we but obtain the neceſſary 
aſſiſtance from England, it will be a great object to print 
the bible, and diſperſe it gratis among them. We thought 
of doing it at our own expence, if only a chapter at i 
time, and have not given up the idea of devoting every 
cowry that God gives us to this important work: yet, u 
fouls are every day periſhing for lack of knowledge, it i 
a very important matter to expedite its publication as much 
as poſſible. There are types, preſſes, and printers in this 
country. 'The tranſlation is getting forward, and every 
thing muſt give way to that, and preaching. the worl, 
Money to publiſh it is the only thing wanted, © 


I wiſh I could fay the ſucceſs was ſuch as to kindle 
flame in the hearts of all who hear of it. Yet our ſucceſ 
is ſuch as ought to encourage more vigorous attempts: 
for not to mention thoſe of whom good hope was enter- 
tained previous to my coming to India, I have great ei- 
couragement reſpecting another bramin, who has for ſeveral 
months appeared under genuine concern of ſou} ; and who 
publicly, and with great boldneſs, attacks the ſuperſtitions 
of his countrymen, and is a great help in explaining wha 


[ 85 ] 


I fay in preaching, to the capacities of thoſe who with dif. 
ficulty underſtand me. It is alſo pleaſing to me to obſerve 
that the poor people, who ſcarce ever thought of any thing 
but what they thould eat, drink, and wear; and how they 
ſhould cheat their zemindars ;* now, to the amount of 
ſome hundreds, underſtand more or leſs of the goſpel 
ſcheme; and this new doctrine is become the matter of 
their converſation with one another. They alſo treat their 
idols with words of bolder contempt than heretofore. 
Some goſpel hymns are alſo now very frequently ſung 
among them: and except their carnal hearts, which con- 
tinue as they were, I feel a growing pleaſure in obſerving 
theſe notices of the approach of the goſpel to the ſtrong 
hold of ſatan in this country. | 


As to what reſpects myſelf; I have but little to ſay. 
It was always my opinion, that miſſionaries may and muſt 


| ſupport themſelves, after having been ſent out, and received 


a little ſupport at firſt; and in conſequence I purſue a 
little worldly employment, which requires three months 
cloſiſh attendance in the year; but this is in the rains— 
the moſt unfavourable ſeaſon for exertion. I have a diſtrict 
of about twenty miles ſquare, where I am continually 
going from village to village to publiſh the goſpel ; and in 
this ſpace are about two hundred villages, whoſe inhabi- 
tants from time to time hear the word. My manner of 
travelling is with two ſmall boats; one ſerves me to live 
n, and the other for cooking my food. I carry all my 
furniture and food with me from place to place; viz. a 
chair, a table, a bed, and a lamp. - 1 walk from village to 
village, but repair to my boat for lodging and eating. 


| There are ſeveral rivers in this extent of country, which is 


very convenient for travelling. Sometimes we travel to 
other parts, and may now perhaps travel much more than 


* Landholders, 


2 
. 


5 L 284 ]Þ 


we have done heretofore. Succeſs is: not en but 
hope continues. | | 


T ſhall be 2 gratified by 3 further proof 
that we are in your heart. My foul is certainly akin t 
your's, and communications from you will gladden ny 
ſpirit. My fincere love to Mr. S. and all friends at Oli, 
or mou your knowledge. 

SR By AﬀQionatel y your's, 
— e 


M. Carty to My. M » Cipſtone. 


Audnabatty, Jan. 22, 1796. 


WE have formed a church, which conſiſts of fou 
baptized members, but all Europeans. As to the natives 
joining us, it is to them a very ſerious thing indeed; and 
though I have good hope of MooxsREE, Monun Cnvny, 
and another young bramin, if not two or three more, who 
make more enquiries than uſual; yet, as they muſt make 
ſo great a facrifice by loſing caſt, I can ſcarcely exped 
them to join us, unleſs they are powerfully conſtrained by 
the love of Chriſt, 


Now I have mentioned the caſt, I will juſt tell you 
what intelligence I have been able to obtain reſpecting it. 


I cannot learn from whence the word casT came; 
the natives call it jazt, There are many fables about the 
origin of this diſtinction—theſe you have probably. read, 
It does not appear to me to have any thing in it of a rel. 
gious nature, or to be ever uſed as ſuch, but merely 282 
diſt inction of the four tribes, which has been in after times 
extended to a diſtinction of employments and trades. It 


Tr 


ear 
vol 


us 


ut 


L 5 Þ 


extends no farther than to eating and drinking, intet- 
meddling with each other's employments, and intermarry- 
ing one among another. They may indeed eat the food 
of another caſt if no water has touched it. Thus a brah- 
man can purchaſe rice of a ſooder, or even of a muſſulman, 
and eat it; but none except a brahman, can cook his food. 

A Hindoo can alſo ſmoke the ſame tobacco which a muſ- 
ſulman has juſt ſmoaked, but he muſt take off part of the 
hooka, which contains the tobacco, and muſt not ſmoke 
through the ſame. water. The loſs of, caſt is indeed at- 
tended with very painful conſequences; no one will eat, 


| drink, or ſmoke with ſuch a man; no one will marry his 


children: his wife, children, friends, and relations diſown 
him, and are alſo great loſers by what he has done, ſome- 
times loſing caſt themſelves in conſequence of it; ſo that 
whoever loſes caſt ruins all his relations at the ſame time. 
I know an inſtance of a man whoſe caſt is gone, through 
a woman in the family being obliged to live with a Muſſul- 
man during their government; and though he has offered 
a lack of rupees, or Io, ooo, ſterling, to have it reſtored, 
it could not be done. i 


My love to all rind 8 at Clo fone. may God bleſs you 


and n I en in my work. 
| Your's, 


W. C. 
—— — 
Tranſlation of the letter ſent from Dinagepore to Mr. CAR Ex. 


THREE years ago, Mohux CHunDER, Brahman, 
eame to Dinagepore, and we then heard a little about the 
golpel of God. At that time he alſo promiſed to fend 
us ſeven or eight copies of the Bengal tranſlation thereof. 


See p. 226, 


26] 


After this we ſent to bis hole for'the ſame, but did ng 
obtain it. Now the bramin is here again. Many peopl 
have heard the unparalleled words; but the promiſed tran, 
flation we have not yet obtained, and he does not wiſh t 
ſtay here longer. On this account we write to you, that 
you would ſhew favour to us ſinners, and ſend us a fey 
chapters of the tranſlation, and alſo that you would order 
the brahman to ſtay with us a few days longer, that he may 
make the path of the goſpel plainer to our apprehenſion, 
that we n caſt off our old idolatrous and * N 


We are ſervants, and if we ſhould ks our fervice 
to viſit you, we ſhould have nothing to eat. Should the 
brahman ſtay with you a little time, we will after that ſend 
to fetch him for a few days if you will give us leave; and 
then we will hear again from bis mouth, and will come 
with him to hear the word from you the word of faith- 
the manner of prayer—the joyful news from heaven ; and 
having heard it, be bleſſed. This is our an. 1 


(Signed) 
Cartick, 15, BULERAM DOss, 
1802. RADA MOHUN BOSE, 


KRISTNO MUNGUL- GOOPTO9, 
BIRZO MOHUN BOSHOO, 
PRISAD DOSS. 


PROCEEDINGS OF THE SOCIETY, 
Relative to their sending out 


An Agiatant to the Missionaries in India. 


"TOWARDS the concluſion of the Birmingham 
meeting, September 13, 1795, it was ſuggeſted that out 


XX 


SETEEESS 


T0, 


ben 1 


next ließ muſt be to ſend Ai WIN br aſſiſtants, bo out 

brethren in Endis f Who, by learning the language, 000 Ef. 
tecing upon the Wotk under their: dtegion, inight; itt Sale 
of n death, be ready to fucbeed nem Job 


SY 174 (13 YET! J . ig Il 


In the 80 of January, 1796, OHN FounTa1 . 
young man, '# member of the church at Eagteiritt, * on- 
n, Was recommended to us as 4 perſon whoſe: heart Was 

engaged in che work of mimons, and whoſe chäräctetr Was 
dtable to ſuch an "undertaking : after ſome coniyerfation 
had pilled betwettl him and the ' Secretary, the latter ch. 
cluded to eil à Cornmittee-meering upon the bulitsls, te 
de held at Kettering, on Feb. 2. "Meanwhite he made e eve! 5 
polibie enquity into Mr. Fes character and abilities. 1 


AG 4x15 - 52 f ts 14 3 #5  Hi44 ve Roy op OS 


At this metting, the Secretary having reported, if the 


| abſence of Mr. Fountain, the ſteps dhe hid taken, the let⸗ 
| ters he had rieten, and the anſwers he Had Veg: it as 


agreed that he ſhould be called in, ànd various guete be 
put to him relative to his views, motives, &c., to all of 
which ſatisfactory anſwers being given, and Mr. F, 'ountain 
having engaged with us in prayer, the Committee reſol ved 
to accept him as a. miſſionary. i ee 


- 


"1 


At the time this meeting was held, Mr. F. . ex- 


pectation of going out in the capacity of a captain's ſer- 
vant. The Committe, in caſe of his being able to accom- 


| Pliſh this, agreed to furniſh him with neceffaries for the 


voyage, and to addreſs a letter to Brother Carey, ſignify- 
ing that in caſe he ſhould not immediately be able to ſup- 
port himſelf by any civil employment, we would be anſwer- 
able ſor his ſupport. But a friend, who had much intereſt- 
ed himſelf on behalf of Mr. F., being at this, juncture 
removed by death, it prevented his going in the way that 


+ Se: Periodical Accounts, No. IL. 120! Note. DRY. 
$4003 9118 


cy 
——" 
4 * 


4 1 for ſucceſs, I am, &c. 


2 [ 288 ] 


he expected. Application was now made by 3 the 
leading members of the Committee, to know whether the 
would recommend that Mr. F. ſhould go out entirely 2 
the expence of the Society; 3 and an anſwer was unanimou. 
7 given in the affirmative. 


"In the month "of April be eee went vn Landy 
ſecured Mr. F. a paſlage in an American ſhip, and Provide 
him with neceſſaries for the voyage: towards the latter end 

this month he ſet fail from Graveſend. One letter 
dated off Madeira, May 17, has been ſince received from 
him, in which he ſpeaks of being i in health, and in poo 


ſpirits as to his undertaking, but that the company and treat. 


ment he met with on board the ſhip were very unpleaſant; 


noewithitanding which, he ſays, < But bleſſed be the Gul 
6“ of all conſolation; and grace, I meet with nothing but 
15 what i is ſurmountable by fortitude, or eaſily borne with 


C7 patience; and I can yet ſing with, dear Mr. N. wi 
« © forewarned me of hardſhips— , 


44% 44 


9 


„ Each sweet Ebenezer I have in re review, - 
Confirms his good pleasure to help 1 me quite through, , 


1 2 


« & Pobicidg in my Tien and depending on 
me Ty 


FEP 


; # r * 1 2 
— ö * . 1 oy 
* & * * L * * 
1 11 0 wa . 


"The n next og Matting u. was held ut erke, 
* . +) 22 * nn 1796, , 
When the following Business Rage 


wrt (11 i 


LETTERS From - our bros, 8 and 
Gres were read, ſtating their lafe arrival in Africa, 


® ExtraQts from theſe 3 will be found a few pages farther on, where 


the ſubſtance of our correſpondence with Africa is preſented. to wwe reader i 
an uninterrupted Rate, 


. 280 J 


the plan bor operation, ! which; with" the ade of the 
Governor, they had formed, and the pleuſirig proſpests 
which opened before them; but communications of à later 
date, fepreſented brother Ropw ax as fo far injured in his 
health, by repeated and violent attacks of the remittent 
fever,” as to make him fear that the climate would not 
ſuffer him to remain in Africa; that his heart was notwith- 
ſtanding no leſs ſet on the converſion of the heathen than 
heretofore ; that he wiſhed, to, be, ſo employed, and had 
| entertained. an idea that his conſtitution would . with A 
on a N:rth Anerican climate. 


eat. The Society agreed that the une write imme- 
nt; WY diately to brother Ropwar, adviſing (unleſs his health be 
30 be-eſtabliſhed) that he either return to England or go to 
but Moa Scotia, as he found himſelf moſt inclined, without 
vith delay. | ; 


= Learning alſo "a Na A Mito; a chief man net 


the Timmany people, had entruſted brother Gr1Gs with 

two of his children for the rainy ſeaſon at Free Town, 

. where it was expected brother GRIGG ſhould take the 
entite care of them, it was agreed, that in caſe the addi- 

| tional expence incurred thereby ſhould exceed brother G. 's 
ability to defray, the Society would make up the deficiency. 


: : 
* On 


2. Application was made to the Society for the ſupport 
of Village Preaching in the neighbourhood of Oxford, and 
it was agreed to allow Mr. HinToN Gl. 6s. for that pur- 
poſe, requeſting him at the ſame time to furniſh the ence? 
with a particular account of his labours and ſucceſs,* 


* A brief account of theſe will bs found in the laſt article of this e 
denominated, Er roRTS OF THE SOCIETY FOR THE SPREAD; OF Ins 
rica GOSPEL AT HOME. 


112 


der it 


„ 1 240 1 


* 


3, Lettets were read, from our 


the Scotch 


Wera, announcing the remittance of 162l. 5 6d. being 


the amount of the ſums, collected in their churches and 
meer 8 the 8 of the hay attended ihe 


11910 


Accounts, when, we announced their pecuniary commu. 
Wein e 


p ar A,» - ö 
10 n . 4 I'S 3&7 211 BEE 


"With craic for the kind exertions of out bett 
the Society, conſidering that no detail of the order of thei 
churches which our limits could allow, would afford { 
compleat an account as that given in part in the Bapris7 
REOISTER, No. XII. and which it was underſtood would 
be completed in No. XIII. wiſh. to refer their readers w 
that publication for theſe particulars. 


4. The Society having expreſſed a deſire of adding: 
ſchoolmaſter to the African Miſſion, a ſuitable perſon for 
that employment was found. willing to go; but as he wa 
a married man with a family, it was reſolved that farther 
advice be 2 previous to our Reds on ſending 
ans Hi 3603 0997 5 


— 


* * 
— 
> ; 5 o p = 4 4 4 : * - 


* 7 
— % C is 


mother - Heine 7 the nb wes bel at N 
Front | Sept. 22, 1796, 


ee IT WAS "RESOLVED? 


OP THAT the going out of the perfon, who at 
the laſt meeting was propoſed as ſuitable for a ſchoolmakie 
in am be for the nee deferred. | 


2. That an order for various Kinds of ſeeds being nearl 
executed at Mr. CarEgy's requeſt, the Society agres 


veſſ 


Whi 


tuni 


1 41 1 


to pay for them, and to refer it to Mr. Can EY to appro- 
priate, the money either to Mr. FouxTAiN's ſupport for 
the firſt year, in caſe he ſhould need it, or to any other 
purpoſe he ſhould think proper in ſupport of the miſſion. 


3. That in conſideration of the Moravian Miſſion being 
under ſome pecuniary ſtraits, Twenty Pounds be preſented 
them by this Society as a token of brotherly love. 


4. That as a manuſcript of Miſs A. Nzain, entitled, 
« A Dialogue between Britannus and Africus,” has been 
preſented to the Society, it be accepted with thanks to the 


pious and ingenious author; and that it be printed for che 
benefit of the Society. 


5. That if a ſmall piece, remarkably intereſting, could 
either be found among the publications of the Cheap Repo- 
tory, or drawn up by any of the Society, it would cor- 
reſpond with our deſigns to purchaſe a number of them for 
occaſional diſtribution amongſt the poor in the moſt un- 
enlightened parts of the country, 


AFRICAN MISSION. 


LEFTERS from the MISSIONARIES. 

Mr. Gli t Dr. R, Briſtol. 
. Town, April 1, 1796, 
BEING informed by Governor Dawes that a 
veſſel is about to ſail from Bance Iſland for Briftol, in 


which he intends returning to Europe, | embrace the oppor- 
— of ſending you a few lines, 


ny 


We had a ſafe, and upon the whole, a pleaſant paſſage 
to this place. We left Spit head Nov. 2, 1795, reachel 
Teneriſſe the 17th, and came on ſhore at Sierre Leone on 
the iſt of December. We were kindly received by out 
friends here, who, hearing of our coming, had provided 
houſe for us previous to > our arrival. | 4 


Three days after our landing, Goremer Dawie callef 
on us, and converſed very freely concerning the miſſion; 
aſſuring us, that nothing ſhould be wanting on his part u 
further the work. He enquired whether we had fixed on 
any plan by which to proceed, or had thought of anf 
particular ſpot where we ſhould enter on our labours] 
We replied, We had not, but that we wiſhed to conſult 
with him; and alſo told him, that this was the advice given 
us by our friends in England. He ſaid, that he had thought 
the Iſe of Benanas a ſuitable place for one of us, and Pat 
Loge (a town about forty miles up we river) for the 
other, 


At the iſland of Benanas, he told us, there was a very 
friendly well-diſpofed gentleman of colour, named Cl Ex,. 
LAND, who, he conceived, would give us a very favour. 
able reception, as he had aſked Mr. C. whether, ſup 
poſing a perſon could be procured as a ſchoolmaſter, it 
would be agreeable to him for the ſame perſon to act u 
a preacher, and inſtruct the people in the chriſtian fel. 
gion? To which Mr. C. replied, that ſo far from being 
diſagreeable to him, it would afford him the greatet 
pleaſure. 


BE 1 to Port Lego, Mr. Dawes ſaid, that b ; 


had been there, and converſed with Namina Mopo al 
the ſubject, This is the headman, as they call him, of tit 


1 248 1 


place, though not the King of that country, for bis name 
is KAHKOOR,. Namina Mopo appears in converſation 
very agreeable, is kind to ſtrangers, and expreſſed a great 
deſire to have ſome perſon to teach his people. The 
S Governor himſelf was ſo kind as to promiſe to accompany 
us to both theſe places, and introduce us to the headmen. 


On that day week, we accompanied Mr. Dawes to 
the Benanas; but wete diſſappointed of ſeeing Mr. C. as 
he had gone up the river Sherbro two or three days before 
we came, and was not expected home for ſome time; ſo 
that oy ineſs (till remains unſettled. ' 7 


— 


On the 21ſt of the ſame month, we went together with 
Mr. Dawes to Port Logo. We found Namina Mopo, 

at home, who received and treated us with great kindnels. 
Ir. D. ſpoke to him on the deſign of our coming; and 
he exprefled as much pleaſure as ever at the idea of having 
a perſon to ſettle there as a ſchoolmaſter, and teacher of 
good things: we remained there three or four days, and 
then returned to Free Town, 


| Brother Ropway being agreeable to my ſettling at 
Port Logo, on the 5th of Jan. 1796, I ſet off for that place 
again; and it having been recommended to me, I todk one 
dt the black ſettlers, a member of brother GeorGEe's 
hurch, with me as a factor, who carried ſome goods to 
rt Logo to trade with the natives. At firſt, I was pleaſed 
at the thought of having a tradeſman and a good man for 
companion among the rude inhabitants of this country, 
but I ſoon found to my grief that it was to my diſadvantage; 
or, in the firſt place, a ſlave-factor in the town ſold his 
Noods at a much lower price than my companion could poſ- 
ibly afford his at; and then our being together made the 
atives ſuſpect the goods were mine, nor could any thing I 
ad prevail on them to believe otherwile. 


= 


the other. 


1 * 3 ** J 


The Governor had Ha aſſured them that our cool 
ing there Was intended for their good; but when they 
found my companion's goods rated higher than the fla 
ſactor's, they ſaid, The people who come from Camp fu 
they call Free Town) were deceivers altogether, Pretend. 
ing to do the people good, and at the fame time attempting 
to oppreſs them, by charging every ie at a higher pri 
than they paid before our coming.“ In this ſituation er 
realized the truth of your obſervation to us at Birming ban 4 

that If our minds are diſtracted about different objech 
we ſhall never know how to act, &c.“ 


Things went on worſe and worſe for three weeks d 
more, which made me think it would be an act of prudem 
to leave the place for a ſeaſon, as that might have a greater 
tendency than any thing elſe to prove to them that the 
trade was not my concern. Accordingly I left Port Lip 
and came to Free Town, where I tarried about ſix weeks 


and then went up again. | nw! 


But things were ſtill unfavourable. The price which 
my companion, from neceflity, demanded for his good 
had greatly incenſed the natives againſt him; and on ny 
return they propoſed queſtions to me concerning his pricey 
which made my ſituation very painful, ſince I could nx 
give conſcientious replies without offending one party u 


As yet, I had no work going on, either by ſchool « 
preaching; nor any proſpect for the preſent: only 
NAMIN A Mopo had promiſed me two children, a bv 
and à girl, and he had ſent to ſeveral of the headmen 
the Timmany country for their children; but by his co 
verſation I underſtood, that he intended all the child 
ſhould be provided for by me, both with food and raimedb 


ſet 
cou 


8 Wr 


1 2 1 


\; bis mind had been already ſoured by the trade, I feared, 
ompleat the offence, and for the preſent ſuſpend all my 


3 in thine ee 


[ am perfunded that 8 can Anion the deſigns 
God; yet, knowing it my duty to act the moſt prudent 
art, after much exerciſe and anxiety of mind, I thought it 
| to return again to #ree Town for a little while; and 
you and our friends in Exgland, thought it beſt: for us 
be there during the rainy ſeaſon, which is now near at 
and, it appeared the more deſirable: and as there are 
any native towns near, and a multitude of people, who 
ould be ww of eee ee 1 me it would not be a 
ſs of time. | 


80 I „ N Mono withea my deſign, _ | 
e deſired I would take his two children with me to Free 
nn, to inſtruct them in reading, writing, &e. This I 
as pleaſed with, as an evidence that I had not incurred 
e diſpleaſure of the natives; though I knew it would be 
tended with an expence which would oblige me to live 
a poorer plan than my white neighbours. Every thing 


rico Wing ſettled, I left Port Logo, and am now at Sierra Lene, 
d ae intend ſtaying here all the wet ſeaſon. | 
rty of | 

With due reſpect, your's, &c. Go 

„ J G. 

101 of — — | : 
＋ Mr. Ronway ts Dr. R, Bl 
1 Aprit 14, 1796. 
of WE gladly take the opportunity which now offers 
* ſending letters to England, that we may give a brief 


11 count of the circumſtances that have attended us ſince 


K k 


1 
7 
; 
. 
1 
1 
; 
ö 
I 
'W 
I 
L 


three weeks, waiting for a fair wind: the Veſi India flex 
alſo, or at leaſt a great part of it, ſailed at the ſame tine; 


too late in the evening to get into the harbour, we ther 


2 [26 J 


* 


we ſailed from our own country, and che proſpects wi 
now have before us. Thanks be to our God, we hay 
had ſome intimations of his * and *. on 


We left Spithead Nov. 2, having 1 — 5 . abon 


but in two days after we failed, the wind changed agi 
and blew ſtrong: exactly againſt us; we therefore ſtcen 
quite about, in order to go back again; for the capti 
how thought of putting in either at Falmouth or Phynui 
harbour, to wait for a good wind: the morrow, a li un 
before light, we came in ſight of land again; but it m 


fore lay to all night. In the morning the wind was a li Co: 
changed, in conſequence of which we ſteered WeſtwallWMr; 
again, to get out into the Weſtern Ocean; the wind, hoy. ape 
ever, did not well ſerve us till two days after, (Nov. uit. 
then it became right fair for us, and we ſailed on vi rrit 
ſpeed, going eight knots (or miles) and better, an hof came 
As to the TY we en A r e of it after” the two | 
ws 95 The | 


$15 Yi 


les and ll 455 or tos he en our aun . 
was rendered uncomfortable by the ſtrength of the v 
and roughneſs of the ſea; but after we had paſſed the Mer 
of Biſcay, we had fine weather and moderate breezes. AN 


Nov. 17, we touched at Tenerife, went aſhore, and ve! 
one night at the town of Santa Cruz, where we bought{lWbe d 
few trifling articles of the Spaniards, who were civil in thel 
behaviour to us, to alſo were the French, a number of wha 
were on the iſland, who had been taken priſoners by 
Spaniards, but now had their "pany 4 in conſequence ol | 
peace. 


[447 ] 


We had pleaſant weather from Teneriff#to- Sierra Lenne, 
hich we made Nov. 30, in the afternoon. On the mor- 
ow, about 1 P. M. we came to ane, in Free ton. ban. 
bour, and immediately went aſhore. . Abbie 


I had good health during the whole voyage, excepting a 

little ſea-ſickneſs. I felt gratitude to God who had pre- 
-rved us from the dangers of the ſea, and prayed that our 
oming into this n e be attendee: es his bleſ-- 


tan I ng · 3.4 n 2. At, „ By 4 88 ol 
vu We ſoot met with ſome of our baptiſt friends; as s to their 
itth 


utward hue they are black—by grace they are comęly, 
| brethren in Chriſt. They were glad to ſee us, and 
ye to ſee them. We found brother Gronkck, Mr. 
UTHBERT, his deacon, and KRZ EL, who is known in, 
gland, with their families well. The Colony i in general 
pppeared to be in a healthy ſtate: the rainy ſeaſon Was, 
quite paſt, The Governor was not at home when we 
rived, but came home in a few days; ; and ſoon after 
ame to ſee us, and to talk with us concerning the miſſion, 


Having been adviſed by him to viſit the Benanas' and 
rt Logo, on Dec. 11, we ſet off together in a floop, to 
zo thither. The Benanas are about thirty miles from Free 
Town, twenty-five South of Cape Sierra Leone; we arrived 
here the next day, but" unfortunately found Mr. CT E- 
AND abſent. There are a few native towns on the iſland,” 
but we ſaw only that where Mr. CLEVELAND lives; for 


d eve ſtaid at the Benanas but one night, as nothing could 
ueht e done without him. 


n thel | 
what Soon after our arrival brother GzoRGE and his church met, 


{ and united with us in prayer to the Lord, that his blefling 
of "Sit be upon us, and ſucceſs attend our endeavours to intro- 


* 


K k 2 


8d * 1 
duce the goſpel among me beathen... Next ſabbath we par. 
took of the Lord's ſuppet with them. Brother Gzics ay} 


have many times preached both to them and the methodiſt. 
and in the church, before the company's —_— came out, 


Dec. 21, we failed FR Port Lago; to- 9⁰ to it we pak 
along by Bance Iſund, on which there is an Engliſh fat 
factory, where hundreds of poor Africans are annually eon. 
demned to perpetual- ſlavery, with all its attendant horror, 
We arrived at Port Logo in the evening of the 22nd. Some 
of the inhabitants of this country are, MAandingas, theſe ar 
Mahometans: the Timmanies and Bulloms are Pagans. We 
Raid at Port Logo four days, and had a great deal. of talk 
with the head men and the king. Here are four or fie 
towns pretty near together, each of which is under a heal 
man, excepting one which, belongs to the king. Herei 
one head man who has more influence than all the reſt, or 
even than the king, in fact the whole buſineſs depends on 
him; his name is Namina Mopo, i. e. Manoman 
the ſon of Namina; he is al Mahometan. At laſt it ws 
fully agreed to, for a white man to come and keep 1 
ſchool, and for another man to keep a factory. While a 
this place we had our victuals, which conſiſted chiefly: of 
rice and fowls, cooked by the natives; and I muſt ſay-that 
the native women in this part of Africa, are decent gol 1 
cooks: in dreſſing their victuals, they pay the greateſt { 
regard to cleanlineſs ; at leaſt this has been the caſe at 
ſeveral of their towns, where I have had victuals oO 

' 

| 

g 

( 

| 


by them. 


Soon after our return to Free Town, brother Ga1c6 
and 1 agreed that he ſhould go to Port Logo, and 1 to tht 
Benanas, Mr. Ga will therefore give a more. ful 
account of what concerns Port Lago. I have not yet been 
to the Benanas ſince the firſt time; for, quite contrary to 
my expectation, Mr. CLEVELAND is not yet come home; 


1 2% 


but 1 dope be will ſoon, for I long more-dire&ily/to be em- 

ployed in the work of the miſſion. Indeed, for ſome time 
I have not been fit for exertion, on account of illneſs; for 
I have been repeatedly afflicted with the fever. The firſt. 
attack it made upon me, was a little more than a month 
after our arrival: I have had repeated and ſevere ſtrokes 
of it fince; once I was obliged to keep my bed a fortnight 
together. T have been attended by the company's phyfi- 
cians; and the medicines they adminiſtered have been of 
great ſervice : theſe were chiefly emetics, ſuderifie draughts, 
and the peruvian bark. I find myſelf now much fronger 


than I was, and hope I ſhall ſoon be Yeo again, and 
become ſeaſoned to the climate. 


$ — , 
1 6 3 wt 


Brother Gx TG keeps his health canes well. In 


my illneſs my mind was reſigned and comfortable, particu- 


larly at ſome ſeaſons: I conſidered that whatever God hath 
appointed for me is beſt; and that even death cannot hurt 
thoſe whoſe ſouls are by faith lodged in the hapds of Jeſus. 
This affliction has, I believe, tended to my ſpiritual benefit, 
teaching me humility, op. ſhewing | me F Wnt ! am nothing 
in myſelf. | | 


I fill hope God hath a work for us to do among theſe 
wretched. and ignorant people, * who are led captive by 
the devil at his will.” I think, from what I have. ſeen, 
we have great encouragement to go on. I have been in 
many of their towns belonging to. different nations, and 
was always treated with civility and kindneſs. The natives 
have great confidence in white people, end appear quite 
willing for them to come and live among them, deſirous 
of being inſtructed by them: they liſten wich wonder, at 
leaſt ſome of them, when ſpoken to on the things of reli- 
gion. May the Lord make us inſtrumental in turning 


W . £1 
ſome from darkneſs: to gt au from ſatan” to the true 16 
* e 565 b I 2 FCC Ti 
| N | ns 
1 


I find chat o our r tation, requires great rage... We greacy 

need the prayers of God 's people in, England, and I truſt 

A are, not forgotten by thew. We ſtand in great need allo of 

1 advice and direction, which, 1 hope, dear fir, we ſhall ill 

[ receive from you and other of our friends. Mer the Lord 
| 5 grant us the direction of his Spirit! 


The Calypſo, one of che Company- 8 ſhips, arrived here 
March 18 in it came Mr. Mac AULAY, and a number of 
pallengers, among whom is Mr. CL ARE, the company's 
chaplain, who appears to be a very valuable miniſter of 


Chriſt; A eee two ee de three clerks, &c. of 
ro iring older | eee 8 bob 
| on 


Ss 


- * 0 ' ” 
1 * P . ” 8 + © 4 * 94 ” „ 4 
4 12 * % 1 : : : : * q : 
1 „ 5 i! 1 N . b 
Ko 7 o 1 9 N " 4 : 7 
j 1 5 * 


A. Grice to Dr. ; RF Britt. 


öl | 205 gre ee eee eee, 1706. 
AF only requires a knowledge of the country in 
which my lot is caſt, and of the diſpoſition of the natives, 
to prove, that encreaſing the number of miſſionaries is very 
deſirable. Here is a fine nation of people (the Timmanics) 
Wi! | which extends about a hundred miles inward towards the 
Eaſt; and their diſpoſitions are fuch as threaten no obſta- 
cle to our travelling, and preaching among them; and, 
the encreaſe of expence, in adding to the number of 
miſſionaries, will not be very conſiderable, when we conſi- 
der, that the farther they go into the country, the cheaper 
they can live; and the natives ſeem much more inclined to 
pay attention to what a white man ſays, than to any inſtruc- 
tion offered by one of their own colour. In my next, | 


L * þ 


intend ſending you an 0 off my progreſs in wa 


TO * 
Your 0 be. | 


To 44 * Birmingham.” | | | 


Sierra Leone, May 14, , x796. 


THROUGH the goodneſs of God we have been 
carried over the pathleſs ocean, and landed on the place of 
our deſtination; and through the ſame goodneſs we have 
been preſerved from death ever fince our arrival ; though 
brother RoDwaAyY has been il! ſeveral times; and I was once 
ſeized with a fever, I have reaſon to think in conſequence 
of leaving off my flannel  waiſtcoat, as I found myſelf ill 
within two or three days after I had neglected to put it 
on; and when my diſorder encreaſed, not withſtanding the 
uſe of in a friend ſaid, Put on your flannel waiſt- 
coat again; I did ſo, and ſoon the fever left me. It will 
not do for perſons to diſuſe flannel = wearing it in this 
hot country. 


Since my rel, I have been a good deal among the 
natives, and can converſe with the people of the Timmany 
country in their own language; and in a ſhort time I 
hope to be able to preach to them. They all ſeem very 


affectionate, from the head-men down to the ſlaves, and 


appear very deſirous to be taught to read and write, and 
alſo to ſerve God, 


I have talked to 3 of „the Son of God, who is 
* called Jeſus Chriſt—that he came down from heaven 
* and died for us, becauſe we were ſo wicked that God 
* would not fave us in any other way—that he came out of 
* his grave after three days, and lived here with his friends 
a good while, and talked to them about good things, and 


\ 


| N 


4 at laſt went up to heaven again to his Father 3 but tol 
© his friends before he went away, that they ſhould go all 
© over the world and tell all men that if they would be 
| © ſorry for the wicked things they had done, and love him, 
© then they ſhould come to him whey they died, to Gods 

place, and live with him for ever.“ Such language as this 
they. will hear with the greateſt attention and ſeeming con. 
cern. I have talked to them in this way till they could not 
ſpeak to one another for aſtoniſhment ; but, like the ſons of 
Jacob, when they ſtood before 8 could only look 
upon one, another. This has frequently been a comfort 
to me, and a very great encouragement to proceed in the 
work of the Lord among them. What a mercy it is to 
have ſuch a doctrine to preach as carries influence and evi- 
dence with it to the heart; and which, if once rightly re. 
ceived, proves the power of God unto the ſalvation of every 
one that believeth ! 


You will hear from Dr. R. of my having been at 
Port Logo, a place near the head of the Sierra Leone river. 
Among the many things of a diſcouraging nature which 
attended me there, I had many alſo of a pleaſing nature; 
ſuch as liberty to build a ſchool, a promiſe of land to cul- 
tivate, and of many ſcholars from different parts of the 
country. The people are very thankful that I came with 
ſuch a deſign, and ſaid, * They were ſure all the gentle- 
« men in white mans' country muſt be good men and 
« love them, or they could not do ſo.” | 

| | Your's, &c. 


— — 


To Mr. F —, Kettering. 


Free Town, May E 4 1796. 
IT will certainly pleaſe you to hear that there is no 
obſtacle in the way of travelling or preaching here. I 


» 


no 


| 258 1 


ny of dur friends in England: would be willlngt to Gene 
hicher to labour for God; but are aid to travel, I ſhall at 


l times be ready to give üp'a local ſituation to them for 


the fake of travelling. Indeed my dear fir, men may find 
local fituations enough in this country, while there will 
remain a field ſufficiently large for the labours of itinerant 
preachers, as the Timmany country extends above a hun- 
Jred miles to the Eaſtward, and its population is great, 
conſidering -that- ſo many of this people have been fold for 


ſlaves. 


* 
5 


Nau e the chief man at Puri Logo, poſſeſſes 
an excellent diſpoſition, and is very willing that the chriſ- 
tian religion ſhould be taught in the country, but is himſelf 
4 Mahometan. He gave his children, ſaying,” „ Here, I 
give you theſe children, that you may teach them to read 
and write, and make figures, and alſo bring them up to 
your religion, to pray in your faſhion; but as for me, I 
am a Mahometan, and cannot be of your religion; for I am 
now old; but the young people may learn it if they will.” 
He added, that © all the children which were to be ſent to 
be inſtructed in reading and writing, were to be CE 
to pray in white-man' » faſhion.” 


Mi his wife Rue headwoman) is alſo an amiable 
perſon, She is poſſeſſed of good ſenſe, and very tender 
feelings; which I have had opportunity to diſcover in her 
treatment of the ſlaves who were chained and prepared for 


| fale. She always diſowned that ſhe had any part in the 


trade, and whenever one was brought chained to the houſe, 
ſhe would come to me, and, knowing that I was an enemy 


| to the trade, lay, „It is none of me, Mr. G81G6, it is 


none of me, it is Mr. T—'s (a ſlave-factor's) ſlave.” 


L1 


1 28. 


One of the headmen has promiſed to travel all «hroug f 
| * Timmany country with me after the rains are over; Whi 
but, unleſs ſome perſon. ſhould come from England to u d 
my place at Port RIG I „e think I ſhall "ER hy emp] 


offer | in th 
1 N 15 Ven "Me | etui 
9925 — — wg 


' Mr. Ronway to Mr. F 


» Kettering, 
Free is May 16, 1796, 15 
N 1 ſhould write with great pleaſure if I had gui i... 
tidings ws communicate; eſpecially, if I had to relate the _ 
converſion. of any of the heathen to God. But, thougt Soo 
dhe intelligence you will receive by this letter may app I tan 
of a diſcouraging nature, yet, I hope it will not in any vit 3 
tend to hinder the endeavours of the Society to introduc cho 
the chriſtian religion into heathen nations. git 
Since my arrival in this country, the Lord, in his wil ſeen 
dom, has been pleaſed to viſit me with ſuch repeal I“ 
ſtrokes of illneſs that I have been hitherto diſabled fron 4 
employing myſelf in his work among the natives. — TU NN Co: 
you may form ſome idea of my caſe as to health, I enclo and 
for your peruſal a copy of my journal, from which account feu 
you will not wonder at my ſaying, that I can hardly deter my 
mine what is right for me to do, The doctor informed me pay 
two or three days ago, that he thought I was not a fit ſub not 
je& for this country, and gave me no encouragement to 
expect health if I ſtayed here. I begin therefore to doubt 
of the propriety of my continuing here; and yet it is 
painful t to me to think of leaving Africa. Could 1 hare 
health, I ſhould be delighted with the proſpe& which | : 
the 


ſhould then have of uſefulneſs among the natives; and with 
* pleaſure I ſhould purſue the plan of the miſſion.— 


ruf 


1 285 1 

Wnilſt I write this I feel an earneſt deſire, that God, my 
heavenly Father, would grant me health that L may be 
employed here. But I reſign all to him. Should I not tay 
in this country, I fifould wiſh to go to America rather than 
return to England, as perhaps I might, at ſome future time, 
lhe employed among the American Indians. Very glad 
ſhould I be, could I have the counſel and direction of thoſe 
who have employed me; but theſe I have not at hand. + 


2 


May other 3303 be raifed up and ſent out hither | 


b, Here ſeems to be free admiſſion into every part of the 
ai country among the natives - ſome parts are exceedingly 
the populous. Ine town of Wongapong, a chief town of the 
ugh doſces, perhaps about 150 miles from Free Town, con- 
e tains ſome thouſands of inhabitants. On my recovery 
A from the firſt attack of the fever, I went thither in a 
uct 


ſchooner boat belonging to ſome of the ſettlers, who were 
going to Wongapong to trade with the natives. They 
i ſeem to have great confidence in the white people, having | 
very high opinion of their knowledge and their books. 


I ought to acquaint you with my obligations to the 
Company's phyſicians, who have been very attentive to me, 
lol and always ready when I needed their aſſiſtance; 3 and a 
ſew days ago Governor Mac AuLgy, ſpeaking to me about 
ters my expences in the colony, I faid I had the doctors? bill to 
ne pay; when he kindly replied, that the doors” bill would be 


ſub- nothing, neither for their attendance nor for medicines, 
t to 1 80 8 
gp: Affectionately your's, &c, _ 
t is | 3 J. K. 
have WG | | Ou” K 
þ | IT is with concern that we inform the friends of 


vith che miſſion, that Mr. Rop war's health has been ſo inter- 
.- opted almoſt from his firſt arrival in Africa as to inca- 
L132 


T 256 1 
pacitate: him from 3 attempts towards the con. 
| verſion; of the natives, and fully to convince us that hi 
1 conſtitutibn i is not ſuited to that climate. After a ttial of 

more than eight months, it Was Judged neceſſary by the 
ſenior ſurgeon of the colony, that he ſhould geturn to I 
nd. He accordingly quitted: Africa, and arrived at Briſi 
in the latter end of Sept. 4796. Mr. Rop War brough 
with him the fulleſt teſtimonials of his amiable and becom. 
ing conduct, both from the Governor, and the Baptif 


CARA at ok Link 1 "We arg the pleaſure” alſo to add 


8 4 


„ Copy © Wihe teſtimony of tlie Senior a = * 5 


j 
34 
x 
:t 
4 
i 
. 
ol 
. 
if 
[1 
{} 
, 
1 
7 


- 25 7 . nn ++: 
BE... This is is to certify that Mr. Ropwa v. s ſtate of health, is fo ab in- 
paired by frequent attacks of remittant fe ver, that 1 inks a voyage to Ens. 
LAN D dons pres neceſſary | to the = ys thereof,” » 


e RS | Signed, LOWES, Sen. Surg", 
Free Town, Ser 8 JFF 


+ dla of: ti the Baptiſt Church at Sierra Leone. 


— | e We remember our friend and biwehtr in Ov; Jauss Noba w He 
* is now on his departure from us. We are all, ſopry for it; but it ſeems that 
| this climate doth not agree with him. All we can ſay is, the will of the 
i] Lord be done. Our prayers to almighty Gop are for him, and all the Bap 
| Society. Ever ſince he hath been with us, his conduct has been worthy of 
il praiſe from every chriſtian of every denomination. His doctrine is of Chriſt; 

I! his counſel is good; his behaviour is peaceable; ſo that he has obtained the 

good-will of all who know him. We recommend him to all who love out 
| Lord Jeſus Chriſt j in VII . and ap for his preſervation over the deeps. 


JOSEPH RAMSEY, Deacons, 
CATO BURDEN, 


| Signed, av. GEORGE, Paſtor, 7 

| Free Town, JOHN CUTHBERT, dn 2 
'4 July 22, 2796. THUTER PETRIT, ; 0 
| 2 55 JOHN KIZELL, t 
1 


ON. 


* 
5 


He 


that 
F the 
aptif 
hy of 
riſ f 
d the 
e Out 


* 


I 


INS, 


[ 237 7 155 


that ſince his return, Hibs health has been gradually recovers 
ing; that, during the winter ſeaſon, we hope; he may be 
able to attend in ſome degree to village preaching at home; 
and if his health ſhould be well eſtabliſned by the ſpring, 
that ſome other country may be found to which he may be 
ſent without injury to his conſtitution. We alſo hope that 
by that time a We ep ux e, be nun accom- 
pany” him 4 al e 


The concern which we feel. Rey on * — of the 
diſappointment reſpecting Mr. Ropwar, is but little when 
compared with that which reſpects his. colleague. It is 
with pain and grief that we inform the friends of the 


undertaking, that after all the encouraging appearances in 


Africa, à cloud has covered our affairs in that quarter, 


which threatens for the preſent, a total ſuſpenſion of our, 


labors, = 


' k F E 
oy N et 3 1 
4 


In the ſecond letter that we received from Mr. Gxio, 
we perceived that! he had imbibed ſome prejudice againſt a 
principal perſon. 1 in the colony at Sierra Leone, who had 
treated him kindly. while in, England, and had ſhewn much 
cordial reſpect to our ſociety. We were at a loſs to ac- 
count for ſuch. a prejudice, eſpecially as it appeard to us 
very unlikely to have any juſt foundation Whatever. Nor 
could we account for, it in any other way than by ſuppoſing 
him to have been influenced by ſome perſon or perſons in 
the colony who were pre-diſpoſed to impreſs the mind of 
our m iſſionary to that gentleman's diſadvantage. Being 
immediately apprehenſive of the iſſue to which ſuch a ſpirit 
might lead, we loſt no time in writing to him, in the ſty le 
of ſerious, but affectionate, expoſtulation. But it ſeems 
that, before our letters could arrive, he had acted with ſo 
much imprudence, and embroiled himſelf in ſuch un- 
neceſſary : diſputes, that the Governor conceived it neceſſary 
to inſiſt upon his leaving the colony. At this time we 


go to England; or to Port Logo. without delay, and not 


ſage in the firſt ſhip for America.“ It ſeems he choſe the 


prejudice, and in intereſting himſelf in tlie diſputes of the 


we ſhould have approved, if he be but duly ſenſible of paſt 


at which meeting this intelligence was laid before the 


1 


are e certain lens he is. By the laſt xc. 
counts which arrived in September it appears that he had 
a choice of three expedients propoſed to him. Either to 


to return to the colony without leave; or to take his paſ. 


laſt 3 and he may already be gone for America. It is poſ. 
ſible, however, that upon reflection he may have ſeen and 
felt the impropriety of his conduct in indulging a ſpirit of 


colony; (in which he was, and ought to have conſidered 
himſelf as, merely a ſojourner, during the rainy ſeaſon) 
and might prefer the ſecond of theſe expedients. Of this 


miſtakes ; but whether this be the caſe, is altogether un. 
certain. He may, ere this, have left Africa, and the miſ- 
ſion in that quarter have, for the preſent, en 


terminated. 


The "Vent MEL was received partly by a letter 
from the Governor, partly by another from Mr. Ga ice 
himſelf, and partly from converſation with Mr. Ropwar 
after his arrival. We immediately called a Committee 
meeting, which was held at Guil/borough, Oct. 6, 1796; 


committee, who juſtified Mr. 'Ropway'*s return, lamented 
Mr. Gr1i6G's behaviour; and reſolved, That the thanks 
of the committee are due to the Governor of the colony 
for the concern he has manifeſted for the intereſts of our 
miſſion in Africa, and that the Secretary be requeſted to 
tranſmit the fame, 


On ſome conklerations, we could have wiſhed, on ac- 
count of the diſagreeable part of the above intelligence, to 


have ſuppreſled what had been before received of the agree - th 


239 J 


able; but raftice, to the undertaking, and thoſe kk have 
| befriended it, ſeemed; to us to require an explicit narra- 
tion of both the one and the other. Thoſe encourage- 
ments which exiſted in the early part of the ſeaſou ill 
| exiſt, The natives of Africa diſcover a willingneſs to hear 
the goſpel,” and look up to white men with great reſpect, 
0 accounting it a favor that they will go thither to inſtruct 
| them. Such a call to Europeans to go over and help 
N them ought not to be concealed. We truſt that this, 
and even our preſent diſappointment, will eee, us and 


0 others to greater exertions. 

l In addition to the above, the Committee beg 3 to 
* offer the following reflections—Firſt: That it is a very 
it myſterious inſtance of divine providence, that two young 
he 


| men, who had. both engaged, and we verily truſted, after 
cloſe examination, from the pureſt motives, in preaching 
ly the goſpel to the heathen, ſhould both for the preſent be 
obſtructed in their work: that he who ſeemed likely to 
ſucceed from the prudence and amiableneſs of his ſpirit, 


1 ſhould be incapacitated by affliction; and he who was 
5G my e PIR | 

FT well able to endure the climate, and whoſe ſprightly powers 
5 were equal to the energy of his conſtitution, ſhould inca- 


6. pacitate himſelf by the impropriety of his condut! We 
ah are not without apprehenſions that our own ſpiritual de- 
tes may have contributed to this affliftion When we 
ſent out our firſt miſſion, it was a work altogether new 
a path that we had not been uſed to walk in. We there 
fore trod every ſtep of it with fear and trembling. Our 
ſupplications to heaven were fervent, and continued. But 
perhaps having ſucceeded in the firſt inſtance, we were 


leſs fearful, and leſs importunate with God in undertaking 
a ſecond. 


Secondly : It may be the deln of God, by covering 
this undertaking with a cloud for the preſent, to try us. 


— 


ale perſevere amidſt diſcouragement in the execution 
of juſtice, we truſt we ſhall not be leſs diſpoſed to perſe 


with a portion of diſappointment. 1» God may in ſome in. 


de permitted as a warning to other miſſionaries that they 


are warmly attached to Chriſt, and who are willing to 


; N * ; FN F 
e 
| : 41-4 4 W . 


[ 960 ] 
In undertakings of this Link we dab to len our accounts 


ſtances impede our progreſs: by his on immediate hand; 
and in others may: ſuffer the perſons to whom the work 
is entruſted to act. an unbecoming part. Examples may 


meddle not in things foreign to their miſſion. It ha 
fallen to our lot to give the firſt warning of this kind; we 
hope alſo it may be the laſt: but whether it be, or not, we 
are ſure it does not become us to be diſheartened. "Ira 
was repeatedly put to flight before Benjamin; and jet 
they did not deſiſt, and at laſt become victorious. If they 


verance in the exerciſe of benevolence and mercy. When 
the ſtandard-bearer of an army fainteth, or even when the 
body of an army is cut off, if it be a cauſe in which 
people's hearts are intereſted, it is rarely known but that 
others ſtand ready to take their place. When miſſionaries 
amongſt the Moravian brethren have died, or been lai 
by the ſavages, others have immediately Repped forward, 
and offered their ſervices. How is it with us? Have ye 
no ſuitable characters exiſting amongſt us? Surely ve 
have ſome ſerious, upright, intelligent, modeſt, prudent 
and enterpriſing young men in our churches, whoſe heart 


forego the enjoyments of civilized lite, for the ſake 0 
promoting his kingdom in the earth. From OR con- 
CERNING PERSONS OF THIS DESCRIPTION, WE SHOULD 
BE HAPPY TO'RECEIVE THE EARLIEST COMMUNIC4- 
TIONS. There is an open door, both at Port Logo, and 
in the Sogſee country, if ſuitable perſons are but willing to 
enter in. For our parts, we declare, that if duty did not 
confine us to our preſent poſts of action, there are ſeveral 
of us who would cheerfully engage. 


* 


1 0 1 


Thirdly : While we utterly diſapprove of Mr, Gate » 
conduct, » in interfering Jn, + concern! foreign to his miſſion, 
we cannot but entertain a hope that this painful event 
may be ultimately profitable even to him. Should he be 
hereby .hxqught. tq.aefleRion, and learn the neceffity of 
greatet watchfulneſs , meekneſs, prudence, patience, and 
| forbearance in his kind, he may yet be 

nourable and uſeful ſervan of Jeſus Chriſt. He is a 
joung i 2 1 anos bad h 1 l ex perience of 5 and 


to 71 


. 15 1 © t if i F 1} 
things. feel i to 0 hope "Arid pray 
20 0 2190 180 Joe plot: 2 932500 1 603 


for, hi "> 
Hi 75 Mt 310444. "ry 1 it}. 40H. {} 3 656 0 9) 90 


iy The Society” having Agreed tb er day of 
klemu faſting and prayer, in relstion to the important 
undertaking för Wich wwe he afſociated, dd earneſtly 
| requeſt their brethren, that, either as Adividdaly in their 
choſets; or iti their families, or With their reſpectibe 
churches or "entigrejzitionis/ (as ſhäll be most agreeable 
ind convenient} they will * unite with them in devdut 
ric Wh applicktion® to che T hrone of Gtac e on Wivuröb Ar, 
lan December 28, Which is the day appointed for this' 8. 
ard, WY bennity. Neat Eick. Vi 2 3 


WV. 2 14 . 2 * & 
We *FY FT 40 P1013 YN 38 1 4014 
we a 
1181 Fi f i 4 1 
ent, 
Þ 4 - * } x £ $48» 
Arts 91 4 fi Y [1 3 ; | | 1 4 3 
by. 1e TILES 
> to 33435334 10 7110 2 f N \ 0 i 
117 DO 2C inn 25! 
e of 
ON» N 4 ©; * os ; 
9 \Þ op he 23 2 $48 1 K II bis 10 1 31 114 
ULD þ : ; ö — F * 4 . . 
wes notgitet is eee 433 3667 eee 
CA 1 " - . ; 2 1 1 
| 16111 28 219 Hinten 0G 10) ener 46 ad Donis 
and - m 1 ? Y * 1 
ehh nne 15 WO IM] mne av2Ww ene & TOI 
ig (0 e | : RY” | : 
S 321180 915; AAMOTq 2341 70 J 1 n VO -DSH 1401 30 
| not t ie} ain art : 
Jen 008 Zi rein more neh DOES e 
0 . 2 ba 
[Crd ; 


— 


* 4 
Ann 


= 
* 
* 
-4 
92 
+. 
— 
- 
— 
2 
* 


* 1 R halb 2 D. [ "x44 


+ OS —2——HaP.e 


8 


_— 


l 77 
n - — - \ # "+, 
ER F— CC ICC NC er 


: . 
—— — —7—K¹1—— 7«˙;¹Ü mm !. ˙ w! M ² A . /// x 
— — "RY 2 gs — - — - ————— = - 7 


G 


O—— 


— v. — 
— any * 


— — 


| 
| 
= 
| 
| 
| » 


ůęg⁊ẽãẽñẽ[ꝛ⸗˖ůẽk5BñBÆñ⸗ ——ů— — — Rees» 
— 
* —— 


00149 11440 ona yhh220 2 / vibudT 


> Tb eib the GONPEE of Wife." 
- Bd J Ne oft do 8 sid ni 9201615 wy 


- $$Fayaurs for, the, ſpread of, the gſpel,in gur-own.com 


K we 1 


* 


eftoilitin ein EFFORTS" EH An gi E SOC! ry JIE: 05 
3440 Iv 


210% lutuisg aids 1677 Sgutl & S105 ng 
9d gd bluode mid of is enen 05 e en 


bak tis OO LIT 54301 eie 1918 196518 


D 21 1 Ml) LI { into bo N 7 | 
"hat be I our gat. 4 GENS as flat 
vera perf who. ö been, app ied | to, for r fuppe 
U endl vr ee N goſpe among "Heathen, Bad 0. 
jetted: to making efforts for chis e. abroad, whil 
therg, was, ſo much, ta be done at homg ſoveral parts q 
222,98 kingdom, heing provided with ewe if, an, 
ene of (evangelical. inſtruRion. ; "Fj gel ion brig 
\takep; into, ſeriqus ,gopſideration lat 3, gengrak ,mecting,q 
„the ſociety; at Birmingham, Sept. 16, 4905, it ag ag 
oN a plan of Vülzgs Preaching, befose gur bie 
»Shropeh the, medipm,of ur, Perigdical; Accounts, in dir 
10 be; governed, by, heir opinion in,, GoppeRing. bon. 


try, with our alete er in e heather which ur 
printed at the cloſe of No. II 


This propoſal, as far as we could learn, met th 
general approbation of the contributors to our funds; ani 
ſome of our correſpondents expreſſed their approbation in 
terms unequivocal and ſtrong, 


In the month of May it was ſuggeſted by one « 
our brethren, that the intereſts of religion might be 1 
vanced by employing two of our minifters as itinerant 
for a few weeks, whilſt their own congregations might 
be ſupplied by two of the ſtudents from the Briſtol Ac. 
demy (the ſummer vacation beginning about that time 
during which ſeaſon they would be diſengaged -in 


Fd 


i (83 1 


vrethrehy STEADMAN of Broughtong: 3 SAFFERY of 
Salfburys would be ſuitable perſons to itinerate; and that 
the county of Cormuall would hes 4 delirpble 28 to 


make the experiment.” © S Ks 


— 
— 


S, 
— 


T his propoſal having 8 8 FIT ſeveral 
reſpectable miniſters, who were not of the Committee, 
and brethren , SAFFERY and STEADMAN,, being willing 


latel to undertake the work, it was reſolved: to ec them ay 
ppon WY under the patronage of the Societ 7/7. 8 

15 Ae after a ſolemn meeting of prayer, _—_ 
by p their direction and ſucceſs, held at On 2 ** 


27, 1796, Sep ſet out lor Cormual. 


8 
— * 


E It might appear - "oltentations Yet eſe 
$0 with their journal at large, -and on the other hand nſa 
ee factory to thoſe to whom we oK up for ſap rt, x 
ads BY no account” of their labors were given them; wi ſhatl 
der therefore extract from their journal merely a.liſt of the | 
ome 

Out- 


mr 
1 E. 


towns and villages where they preaghed, the- plates in 


Cn 


which they delivered>their dife6urſes; the ſubje 


ny preached from, and the number -of hearers Who the 

ſeveral places attended "their midiſtry to which ſhall 
N annex a few general obſervations. = : 2 8 F 
and The firſt Lord's-day they ſpent at Phot! 44 
n Plymouth Dack, and on the. Monday united with the 


brethren in another meeting of prayer in the. veſtry of 
the Baptiſt Meeting of the latter town, from whence 
they commenced their” 8 in  Gernwall in the 2 
ſawing order, 7:22 | R b 


988. — ay * — — * 
*hy a # 


Ll 


ET 5 ns” £ *Furynp3 dg Jo , Spi 40 ua *"2aqnn Ag 51. Z 
4 


—_— o—_ zog v7 3 * — we 98 249m” . 243. bs aaO 0 s25v1d 10 ne pue qa aN 


7 5 * zufu act Mo4a0W qa 30 prayut #ajnoy 


Iurujofpr di up Lufusze Iryh. 8 0 poy3ribos eur Sr * ane ada may » 200 eee 20% u pause sen pur 0 fac. 
— 4 243 1 0 A0. % * LOWE. ae pur õο pαονν L Jt; : aj doad Izv pour XY g. e *payoraad pry NVNGVILsS NO a2yy Þ 
© - NE — prrgiury ujdaz 41 $apriap wude $32man neun * 444 21 woay payzarday Kuo 109 Ffjemuzog ul qou ef puwyarg + 
8 noe vonder ar on l erer ee eee Sqn eee . 
_— 8 — > 2 — 2 
8988 a ck” 3 ag a v3 * 2 <= 22 
SP on1p* N 2 : - ods © 18 = an it wore 3 * elt e 2 N Spy — 1 6 
„„ 2 TT EIS ZOO: bs "nx $y © 2 | JJ K4ayBg p 
1 | ot P Sy —— od — 
— 8 oh 8 > as of 1 oh © * * ak det ul 0. n © '0Þ ponts 0d 1 
S "> 249% KW, es „ 0 % n I — pes! d 2 
© 85 = onip 6 = 08 0 8 2 5 £6 Xl , 8 net eee“ ond *{10yrg 9 
„ er d eee, 9 apcuqog® d *$200qyJ0 a Dονττπ·q⁰ỹr̃ furmprag 
„ © PF My-- Tn = E 88 eh = — OL Deng 72 we eme aps E 
e & = © 0 : c r 
dude an wi 4. » = 0% iir oe an- pudeg © ee ee lee e 4p cler 
r 3 = = halbe 2 2 ec ng he 17 Lf 40 uMeT, ννν,j⏑jðõũEo p 2 
3 = 3 | 
= = *Sv1j14 -2a2. Ge n n 16 e Posen mus p ound * 293 u 2 
8 4 972 a . *. . 
8 0 3 = 2 n | 
. vxundr SüUuVNSTSs IN AL 40 aovuisav 


— — wä—Ä—7˙— as A SB a". 


- Cee ner oe AI by rs —  — — 
— — SPW * 
- -0 n = 


1 265 ] 


8 


Si110a40 
uNOuayn 
Jujngow 241 u 6 


-— 


$1 e 
09. 21 "8x N 


1 405 a2 | 
11 4 409 8 


dufuoas 005 s ux qund 
uoo neun 007 61 ug 
unt 0000 11 11 hs | 
on 2 ot FP + K qof 
A, 1d 
aaa 1 4 ons 0 "Ut put 
r tos 8b bn 
. oi ut b 003 os opt 
durusas I oi ut 0 or | LL 1a jeg - 
: on | 4 F8- 8 N yg + 
ee 2 09 l N ed 
wass an} ur 2 003 o1 1 1.88510. 8 
dufudee „ 8 nN 
uootLiayu b 07 in pn 
Jumoas . 11 AN on 
noouzayn x: 00 9 un end 
Zuſuioui A 1 *JBH 
*4NOFT *$.43 4997 in 


n 
* mor; 0 
©28n0[F /21VaLig 
<1VX 42Lq B uf 
1199] M 
<diqzzon: * —5 
de eg eee ut; 
sno dune PIO 
1184 u, 


dune, 1ndeg 
Bae wee 
* ano e puodopuf 


*taoq SY 
undo 1uapuadapur 


*puadapux yy dug 


qioq zo asn 243 193 po 
ole 2SNoF4 uh 
ond 
duns zuspusdepul 
e 30 n 


Sons 1yapuadopu 


Jure Jo 22917 


* tuou1aN; ) 

+ $U011915U0 1 agg 

.'y 24935PH Gp 

| couuzuag cuvup2a1g 

A uu *{xagvg 

IN *qunowey fueupBJg 

: * Kaayeg 
Durgsald bf : 

d Om 

d punodue rig iahag 

'q *KuoBoag, furupra;s 

1 *punodwerg 'Krogvs 

N Kes9ꝰ 4 8 

N ο , 0d 

unlled unνunpnenë 


*In *apsny 58 


ui 40 mag ger 


, . , 


it 1 


2¹ 


91 
91 
*F1 


9 
51 
51 
{1 
01 
01 


*Kxayeg o 401 Ain 


"PULL 


«I? * 4 L ] 15383228 . : , SHE 


| ae 2. ; i 1 ; 492. 6 , 
ant Ci : 6 3s 7: S$6a2qng. ... Fu So 9991 J . 1 2991] 49 UMAL 7 A 


: - crop Fir e uy o»verd paxrquyur yr] 9 Sens s 


Suſiusgo 500 ur Z OOo Gr "nmixx *quing Sunne 109puadapur Sou y 18 . r 


Zi ſus ae 9 3sed Ju OS SIL nN n 18ndug A on. 0110 95 
3 ” Ts - onwp 2 % ont A au * 00 ©2u0que furmprang 93 
1 5 Dunes 21} u 2 008 8 9⁵ "HA 42H a 290138 N *qunapay *&x2yvg 9893 
Dufus zs --=. Off - £5 ALL. omg A4 foinay, | 
=. uus „„ A A . e puo-s 2UBTOUS —_ *FT 
=. Furuzow - . "006 OI ] FF A ona alle 1 
4 Suttiaaa =: 4 21 x uyoſ 1 HEY 5 5 : 
pz woourys *  . Ofc N AK on dcn urmpveig 58 
guwiow 008 g AN n $i „ 1 | 
I :00T 91 41 gn es zndrg <19J2MaS21] 1 Kzayug g 
8 nr it 009 91 uyop 995 3098 *Iy -*qmnIp3 "ULWpPIIg 85 
0141p 2 Os | 6,1uyoſh 1 CERT 11poypaly e uorzry—  *AJoyrs *2G 
a = _ Puman? og u 2 009 ũ 2 D en eee fuvuprozs,Þ 8 
8 duluoae g zsed WR 08 2. "XXX ) 300138 eng 18 Krayes 1418 
; nb 09 ; ol 1 88. E „ o Wal uud UBWPB91g 15 
[ oinp 2 001 03 A , _ + *yanq osö% t *U04PB1y *Cogeg 05 
} _- Juzuaas 213 ut 2 009 61 '11xxK hates . 61000 30 0 ofoges nog unupvoig 0 
oon 2 000 15 ny "sf ___ ©3994)S omuf g 841 18 Aae 61 
N .ontp 2 981 v Uxx 7318 e eee omg fueuipeaJ}g IS. 
| = nb V 1575 „ FEM „NN IN ounzue g agg 81 
g ; dujusas tj ul 2 00 6 1 3 regie N fuorzear]y bp 0g g Ar 
4 3125 eln 22 ute | 
q Ano *$47403F] lj | 2 jo 4 rn 40 ume * A 7 a 'T . 


— 
2 ® = — —— — 22 


—— K— 
— —34— ——— —Uj—ñ6 . — —— — 


» — — - - r ! . 7 Se TEE 
— — — . 
— —— — — RESP” _ - — : —— N = > — 
OY — bs 


38 


1 — ee vis: PF We 40 


_ .- _ g 
„ %.- PLL 2 * P Io a 


% 


1 parrnag dera Iten und eue g 20 Woog 343 30 ehen 293 uf ef Brau. + 


'S Pa: M 30 oed Junyroad nowry v sr NI. zrodg 2y2 227 Aew mona go je faouammaAto) un 21doad 30 dent 3e42 e ur mod IH QT 
*227xcj3iijdnv ur Nad bya sri 1 ha <3 0 CpH 243 du Spb/23575) I do; oi 2 Aνον it 11 250 Ot 10 09 Mdep a1qriapy 
4105 40 221d 8 87, 37 ae pus adgemajtgy. ! ul 12 dduryip vu 7 zuoge pa wagg Ft 1 Aeg, u 2weu ”_ 03 dhe. yy Rage d e. » 
i iS. \ \ : 10. 1 | Fa | 
Zune IT 4 - 00F CF ben 0 th Wl „duns 3uapu 19doput,, q uon *uvwpro3g © 
uo, s - 09, FI MINN Y "8 ” 0 an Suedsee I. (agnus 9 
Luzuscen o u? e 9 led Kue, Apo *q Pagjpwog ,,,, eee 
MP 24 0 © 401 © wy ae, +q Fong,  furuprors—@— 8 
% . ang ond Þ 
— noone, I Wh oa; SAD oli een BA jun) e eee 
«4: 0210p lt Fi ( l £19 Alx ung Zuid! 5 tt Og NN oa 1 8 Aagug 1 
© due Har ul „ 5 ; noi 1% I ea 8 , aewpvaJ}g ny 
e OgF 95 0 Wo gill ot pany 5 
ee 7, nj ee 1 "I 10 | | 
— Mp  it,0g, eee deen dee Ae. e 
audio ay} ul Z 0771 116 Alec jvs . Ae 71 1 a 2 5 
. 700% i oy. _—_ e ox 1 0 om # dee 1 
* . 5 N 21 SID 6 3241716 a. F371 
2 amiou a 4 ; BY 45a F : 112317 90 { 
LE e236 [OI MPne! „ % ONn bn: me ee io ns. GUpa JN uapyadopuy , -: 5: WIWpogL ic Kanes 68 
J | Sumaa> ay ut} 1 9 un on nn Spo MN N rep bubu 6 
Zuma, n 09 3451 Lexi Moe an 3 Wang *4 lenor 19- '- furwprazg 88 
e i %% ts 114 UP is | 1907 %%% © nd 91, - *K1agrg *olg *27 Anf 
r ebe 4 craalang .. dne SS. p, . Foy 40 u Leb“, enn, 


; <rxtop Firr2p a uy ->e1d paarquyuy yu] uz ara YT s 


Ano 


*SUIUDFFET 


*52791qng 


Suso f Ho 2201T 


i οα 40 1010 F, 


oA3 Jane rrew ze 237 Suranvy jo nouoayep S12.m e Det oa Sumun >xdo2d 2 


nemsa: 172 ur 03 popuszze A4y2a;yo e yorym pavupwnc> Sufarq ura Sunyy dz 3nq ? Zusus as N= ui x1 a peyjrnqnd tea 1 2. ” 
„„ -ureSe wmay3 2y14 023 Siaypeatd: ö 


— yoyonbas por ee ran rea e een beer yonu pazraddy red U 30 —_ Fond” 20m 10.9” wy. "22H 1 


— 


2 1 


w 


A one. ubuupvelg 

 *q uon, ages 
wy {punodmrrsy *fuempea}g 
8 N Kessel NF, . , Kaagug 


A {amo ; ©mq 
uBnqpg, . JN 

4 ue | " *Krayeg 

0 | ond 
: « q Tuo. omg 
—MAXT -._-- Qua 

50 punodust? bond 
N isn iS _upmpBa}g 
1 ay], 85 U hh ebe 

h *AdAYgeS 

s 41/4 3 4 SJ ICT, 3 "——_—y 


— on 


{ „ 34ambar pues * ue 100; q mou Aq 
agel - gia3ar; oh yo — pur wag.» 
inlet 6 8 
n i 4 ita , Tunzony mn 
omp. 4 .,09 oi *arxx *ys0f ee uapupdoapur f 
ese, . 2 .00t ,, 6 K wo] ©5011 Nuri 
Dh yoouays 5 % 7 N une wopuadapux 
Sufus oy} Ut, OFT A wir Rh; ; Gunny 351poyrany | 
> duſusge 01 1.4 qdq, uns eee, 
© | eee - . got 1 yu 2 1 39¹¹8 
5 uuzou in ut 6 0% 409.1; $unaaJy 1aopuodaput 
= „ Dundas O51 89 l 70 AG snoi Bui wang. 
- yoouays 051 4 1 1400 dune Juopuadopur 
8 A 06 Fl * udo . i 
2 8B. 1; TY ; 4 08 8 laxxg 1D no dunßs 
i ee M61 +6 1x '$1Y, *cooy. wang 
Joos he om wW 2 08. Ae oy $unaoJy,quopiia . 
75 Aux ayn hs 
5 Donis 3 ut 14 0 0 1 1677 WF „e uno 
een , ie een deg 
Aan * 12 een? 


bbs iu 


_ 40 a ena pur nog en nene pry veschesg ang 


0 


my — 


4G 


Ban '0ag '+ * 


1 s e. 1 r 11 


e __ 


Pest dt ppm 3y 0 df b g 
1 leres n neee 241 JJM u "goJraz duni 5705 yo NESS 5111 ur 6550 you Jt an t 


Z ne uo En r pagoꝛdum pe a Jo uohusne yeaa3 ech me dende ©3y911-roow * uo parazeo Ahied sr 991412 ail, 4 
| 60 "49 ou $o14ry yoany9 05 asddag 1. p01 21 pozayrunupy 1 | 
PFurnaom | "Þ 9 Dy i ufo dune, MN N fa2urzuagq oma 81 
; bet 1005 91 A "rey DoD <oyasnoy *Kioayrg 
Jura 2 008 SI Tx nu Juno 1s1poyaJy N uz ong 
| Juitcour oi ur 9 001 £8 arx'spPy _omq n furupealg: 21 
_—: on[p 2 008 91 "mM WT, 1 Dario MN N faonezua Kieprg 
5 | onip 4 rtr eit 80438 *q *$IAJ *16 unupveig 91 
S Jutusae 9 ut 2 OZT SS MN "na "1nemy 4*mopeaJTy Y un qm, ond 91 = 
| du luoas | 00s © | 6-arx 1037 EH uo. g uανν ©C1ayvg 2 
: h no0UT9J4e 27 8 | 
= * 55 | 96 "Fa I by 205% ume 332deg e een *Azayug 
| Buttons =. :.- 8 * n- <38noFJ Y2F4eTy. g *au03$]2[] ond 
uoouiehe CY 003 - $8 *x1 nyo OopDον v run one oi 
„eee T 25 8 m ; p, Noe *q ©2u03$Pþ furwpea}g #1 
r 0 1 ix ius fuyaagy nuopuadopus 'q 5aMe]y 29 *Kxayeg 
—_— 0c £1 118941, 1 Funes puopuedapuy H uus Ffarmpra3g 81 
„dir 2 09 8 u 4% d ©0924, Haug 
Satuose 2 04 e ins unor, snoH 2JBALLq *Surqsn,x fuvapro}g 
Suwmow ay} ur 9 08 28 A qd une Nisnduꝗ 'g foanap, avs 04g 11 da 
s οnu 40 ume and 


*nog7 


cia 


*527olqng 


Furquwaig /o 2201.7 


*4242024T 


. / aw 2301 on Bumnnnunun w1doad a3 


PE Og PR wp an erer n= er T2 4 © rn Sr arr rr cn BRewrrv .c ors vr mn owes . ma ge 2 an oa / / GS ne Y . — EFT 


—_ ” Y EY WY BS: £2 x PIT 


Se 40 ume *42qIP24f e, 


*GU1IQIPAG ] 


*S4AFADIFET 


seng 


dodo iA urs oxx I ade Jo SSUCU Pao o go uohzeapuhupe dz e e221 + 


pr Mir uyondnaazur ou patayny y3Jr2y $114 pur Arp Jurmon1og q 291442 yoraud 


07 27qr sr 8 du tum oJres 02 4x3 oi po) popesld 21 Ao 21 Sumnpap zo AA su aqa aapun sq 03 8 Trp-oz 111 OJ ue 7 
ge ad ep rey 103 Jjpamun uaaq Jujary znq 1019. o xi; de 49JeMaJryg Je zuuu $113 paudreid ↄav 03 82M A n A ½nfjνͥt g& 
on 4 om 09 2 I 51p8q *9SNOFF end suaydozg 18 duvupvoig 9 
$ Jurnges g bed 001 8 14 109 8 *qovaq oi ug duns] 110 q Alagug 
* „„ renn i uno, ke fparoysr] furwpuaJg 9 
= on 2 os « 1 A1 res] n M qtunſog 8 *K19yeg 
F oinp 2 02 Ig ux uꝗjot Babst 1uapuadopur *q olsen unupveis 5 : 
| — _ op $ 04 £1 'anx9 '135q -  *jeH nao, *£© Peqpriiy 13S *Aaoyug 
8 _oz1p 888 6 114xx Jus omg 'q fu0}s2DUne uruproig 8 
©S Smanow' 212 ut. 4 001 S "MAXxx9 *Jesq nN *q ⁰⁰ỹt. 0nd 
= : dufuiou | 08 os -nxx pong -omq ound 0d 52 
| 3uruaad 00 01 R 10 omg 0 nd 
— Zunouw 001. Os xx H «unao]y 151deq ness)? Klang 
gunman 8 g 1 nfl, _ *asnoxq 0h, *q *21015P1] 0110 
uoouleie 00 9 1 dq pavꝗoi un ou zie ourq 
onp 6 09 Ty - "9 20 *P1PA Joug 'q *2u035PH ome 18 
dufugom o u 9 07 + x *a1 uqor Jusos 35ndeq d omi, furtwuprarg 05 „ 
0311p 9 3Se1 31211 004 9.8 hve 1 ss JAJJeTy _*&eq 8 *X19yrg 
8 gun? om ut 2 091 1 uns isndeg *q *oanaq, 0110 61 
 omp' g nde 008 8 n Go | | n II nnen euere 
„  Jurvuaad ac ug o 2 n ö „ eee dee "$1 e 
. r auf a hoſing A2 15 . 75% 40 ume I er a], 


. 
IS. 


4. $4 <3 


EY Rn 1 


"os n ; ey : * 2 


2 | en 209 payrona> yu79 yo-aydon 3 q uo payye! 3 292 ING h ngalleb pur” 
uuf) bugs Kyrunzzoddo 2105 pazapuas ©{2031pne n 30 $jaUuJno142J 2y3 03 poppr fsa2urywnIar doi pue ! {1qwuaye ↄqu ie Ara 2240 
JIA! pt>zd; * = * N N cuodu Pois sr * 20 4 a Ts 03 urg * 213 "Pup Yoagry dusoq I] &s 


a 


4 | 838 Cup ano pus 
$5a9M us} 4u2SqP uso Joe Pont 241 <NEM Fapu 4 a0 Kue pve ur uon 10 pale pus *Kanqs1neg a2au 
oJejjia u 34 yoraud o Kepsmyy, uo de urmpea3g %bj ig 'aquiazdeg Jo mates 2y3 ö, {nrozou 
21am {oy ond goa 03 *Axnqsqvg 04- uni e uo 4wuouaumpayy irou aB3B&jj3ia B fpozprly puB uod 
1 JP 0S]B SB * PIT Te: al 'J20q Dock puv aid o awed S Jaquuazdog * Jah .. 


FREY 2 8 —— | 
8 on 2 2 18ed a 0 2 um ua : - | *$NOF[ DJIRALL — *@ FSUBWMLIBYS) 18 2mpuorg 19 ho 
= of: . op - 085 © 06 may... : 2H un.. 'q *pavaysr]7 —*Aaageg 0 2 
dp 2 zend f O21. 8 1 100 puꝰ A uu + ö eee eee 6 
2 oinp 9 OST. 8 14 nee "PH uno 2apug} "{ [21911413507] *$1oyug | 
E Jusus ae ot m 2 0 2 un ene 30038 g MOdονN uuup nes 
; Sutton - - 00... 01 6 w oHr + Aue nog, 3 
I YOOUTaNB _ | 1 4 2 - Tz ux nem  *omq 1 8 | 9 bs 
4 gutuzour | s *2g *x1 mee June z uapuadapur — g bog *Kroyvg | 
N durusas * „ e r ue, JR We, - $8 8 , = 
UOOU1331}B bo 1 u 1 | 
Said . _ Fo. 9 8 — | Juanes 3ndeg — *q fu03S2OUNtT  fURMUPEI3S 98 
Sumaas od ut 2 Ogi 8g NN es Gunaojy 151poyzaJn N *mo3speq Hogug *o1g 9g dn 
*#anox 7 — — —*oapolong Iu gh, fo 2221q Aid 40 u, *daqavrt gy UT, 


2 -2a3dood apry3 daf urs dg oxx I ade jo SSUCu! Pao 213 30 UONPLYuruwpe dz e wm ax + 


15 272 ] 

8 
. General W N = tin the 
I Journal of the Misionaries. "© 


1s "Fi reports ſo eurrent to the eaſtward, gf 
the 1ghorance and barbariſm of the inhabitants of thi 
county, and particularly of the tinners, we perceived were 


totally. unfounded. Whatever the tinners may have been 


formerly, they certainly are now as intelligent, decent, 
and inoffenſive a race of men as can be found among the 
laboring claſſes in any part of the kingdom, We never 
ſaw any inſtance of rudeneſs, never received any inſul 
from them; and as to their behaviour niger the word, 
it does them the greateſt honor. 


As to the inhabitants at large, we bete They ate 
AS intelligent, and much more civil, than in any other 


county. This we judge from our own experience, 4 


we apprehend it will hardly be ſuppoſed we could taks 
ſuch an extenſive circuit upon. the ſame buſineſs through 
any: other county, and meet da little or no oppoſition: 


1 muſt be acknowledged, hae: this -inhbbitanis of the 
north-eaſt part of the county appear leſs Intelligent, and 
leſs inclined to hear, than the more ſouthern and weſterly 
people; but even theſe are not inferior "to what- may 
be ound 3 in moſt other counties. . 


2. As to the ſtate of religion, it muſt be -confeſſ 
that the labors and ſucceſs of Mr. WzsLEy have proved, 
in various: reſpects, a great bleſſing to the county, ang 
ſerved greatly to reprove the indolence of diſſenters in 
reference to it, whillt it held out a leſſon which they have 
hitherto neglected to learn. 


[ 278 ] 


Every thing ſeems to have been favorable to exertiors 
ind had there been able miniſters to make them, in all 
probability their ſucceſs would have been great. Should 
any more miſſionaries be ſent into this county, we- are 
fully convinced, that ſtated miniſters of ſoine Nr 
ate by ty Uh moſt 158 to be a e 


3. It appears to us deftrable that bete ddr 

nent ſhould be attempted. Occaſional miffions will 

do good; but unleſs theſe are conſtantly kept up, thoſe who 

may be ſeriouſly. impreſſed with a ſenſe of religion, will be 

ſcattered abroad, no regular ſocieties formed, and the valua- 
ble ends of the miſſion be very partially accompliſhed. 


Could two or three miniſters of talents and activity be 
prevailed with to go down. and ſettle, and be aſſiſted in 
point of ſupport for a year or two, there is little doubt of 
their raiſing congregations, founding churches, and ſoon 
relieving their brethren from the neceſſity of affording them 
pecuniary aſſiſtance. We know. not why we ſhould be 
reluctant to go; certain it is that there are greater encou- 
ragements to preaching here than in moſt other places, 
as many parts of the country are populous, and the people 
in general diſpoſed to hear. 


: 


4. We ought not to conclude without acknowledzing 
the great goodneſs of God, in preſerving and fupporting 
us through the whole work. Though we travelled up. 
wards of nine hundred miles, and that in different forms, 
and frequently were obliged to walk through heavy rains, 
yet we met with no material accident : and though we 
preached twice as much as ever before, and frequently to 
numbers in the open air, we received no injury whatever. 


U 
{I 
{ 
| 
G 
| 


| 
] 
| 


unimpaired ; and we were brought home as well as we ſet 
out, and brother STEADMAN much better. Our churches 
were well ſupplied, and nothing of a painful nature hat 


- abſence. Thus have we found the. truth of oat Promiſe 


— SR ena <a Arn vv * 


7 ] 
Our ſtrength. held, out, and our health. (except the fey 
days brother .SAFFERrY- lay ill at Chaſewater) continue 


occurred, either in them or in our families, during our 
5 . days jo i thy . „„ at bort. 


4 7 x 


. 1 4 ' . . A 7 
. , 13 SS a . : # 8 25 . 
13 ———>cCcC>>)cC— Prev 
- 2 , y 4 ; "5 # * | » q * 1 h 4 


£1 : | | 
| AG TTY Fea nit Yo ob, ſteac 


Extrafts from a Letter written, at the requeſt of i", 

tlie Society, I r. HIN TON, / Oxford.“ Wi: 
„ | 7 A , 5 ä Mar 
„rm theſe three years I have been dend 
by advice of friends and a hope of the divine blefling, u 
make ſeveral attempts to remove the groſs ſpiritual dark. 
neſs which © covers the people” in almoſt every place 
around us. In four places we have endeavoured to ered Perf 
the goſpel ſtandard; in two only have we met with an 


ſucceſs: and, all things conſidered, our progreſs more tha 1 
equals my hopes, though it falls far ſhort of ww wiſhes, twic 
S. v 

In a "village within one mile. of Oxford, we have ben bs 
prevented from obtaining a place of worſhip, although it ]Wiſ'2 
had been promiſed, You have heard of the violent perfect {no 
tion which ſatan raiſed, and God permitted, to drive w muc 
from a neighbouring town at ſeven miles diſtance, fron 1 


See page 239. 


1 


hich we were Se to fee at the extreme hazard of 
pur lives. : 5 


: . i * 
0 1 Fig BE xs 1 8 3 q 5 OR 3 SE p * G 
1 A / IF» * 8 4 143 : J E , 3 5 8 1 * * F 7 4 1 1 
4 * * » * 


KR .* 


After this i 727 was 8 difficulty ow I could find friends. 
who poſſeſſed ſufficient fortitude to accompany me to 
Vheatly, a village fix miles eaſt of Oxford, where, how- 
yer, it pleaſed God to ſupport me in preaching once a 
fortnight, with very few exceptions, for more than two 
years. Perſecution has been chiefly confined, at IWheatly, 
o ill names, curſes, &c. For the firſt ſummer, novelty 
brew great crouds to hear, and envy ſoon found means to 
eſſen them; but after every deduction, there remains a 
ſteady congregation of eighty or a hundred perſons, and 
on Lord's-day evenings in ſummer we have very pleaſing 
acceſſions from other towns and villages round. In ſeveral 
Jinſtances the heads of families have been reformed; in ſeve- 
ral others, I have no doubt, ſome have been truly converted. 
Many come to Oxford meeting when the weather permits 
though the diſtance is too great in bad ſeaſons. One 
friend has joined the church; three others are thought 
very proper ſubjets. God grant that the dawn of light, 
which we hope we ſee in many, may encreaſe to the 
| 26 day! ts 


5 8 


A ' $5, 7; 
& « 


han The other village, where I hos, as yet, preached but 
| twice, is Oddington, ſeven miles N. E. of Oxford, and five 
S. W. of Biceſter. A pious farmer, lately come thither, 
has regiſtered his houſe, and the neighbours flock willingly 
to hear “ the joyful ſound.” When Bicefler people 
(now deſtitute) ſhall be favoured -with a paſtor, I have 
much hope that this, and the neighbouring villages, ſo 
ron We fully neglected as to their ſpiritual concerns, will be 
ſupplied occaſionally both from Brcefter and Oxford, 


_ 


IJ cannot think that, ve ought. to be diſcouraged thou 
| but « 2 few” are converted. The primitive churchy 
were evidently moſt of them ſmall aſſemblies; nor woll 
ſixty or , eighty people in a barn be thought unworthy 
the inſtruction of a Pavr or a BARNABAS, were th 
ſtill oy earth. Perſevering zeal in humble dependent 
on God is the great quality I need. © Nil deſperandum 
was the motto of Jonas HAnway—* Hope to the end) 
if 1 muſt have one, ſhall be mine. God helping u, 


we can do all things, if we ftrive together oy the 


faith of the goſpel. Wh 


21 


Baptist Meine, Society: | : 


11 


* ” * oy 
1 90 a : + % - J 
* of EL 4 1 * % 2 N A 4 * 2 4 2 by 3 > $ 
Os 2 
* 
J . * * y 0 G1 
le 4, 4 a7; ramus F. 
£ a 4 * * x N 1 r 
8 > 
- : * 
by ” . 
* 


91 9 4 * 4 $452 ” $* , * 
* i . 1 j 92 I SI TW net 4 $44 a 
f 5 Bh 4. 
* - o 2 4 * * - ” wW a4 YÞ 1 
x * * * * * © * — 
; * F : O * by jo . . : kn, 
' FROM: 7-5: - MA 5120 410 


THE MISSIONARIES IN INDIA. 


From Jan, 11, to June 17, 1796. 


Mr. THOMAS t to tr FULLER. 


7 W 


Moypauldigey, Jan. 11, 1796. 


1 AM just nes from Malda, where I have 
preached on Christmas, New-Year's, and two Lord's days. 
Un my way I met brother Carey, who is going to preach 
there also. I delivered him some books and -parcels, in 

yhich we found a letter to us both from the Society, * 
April 14. 1795, to which T fit down to e N 
U Wet: 


7 : ; 
— 
wn 4 
E $2 
1 os Toon 
2 * % 172 2 £4 4 why * x4 
„ „ » ” "Mz. 5 1 
3 % $5.4 Gs 44 4 144 U * 2 $48 * 1819711 
„ TE 4 N 1 1 wy Gs 11:3) £3 His 


12 4 * 
>... 


PERIODICAL kum t 1 Wee 


ACCOUNTS) _ 


ben To. run Oz OH 121m ol 


+ 


. 
ws 


* 
* 


? 
3 


3 


1 2 %s * 

o n : 
n 2 1 
FRE * 


r 
> ©» of 


2 PS 


22 


rl ER 
A 8 2 2 
1 be. e — 
b "I. We 
: vo 
Fj Pp. F 


- 0 ki — 
— * 
I 


278 


eee 
I rejoice in my foul to hear that our nedobagti brtehren 


are ſoftirred up to ſend abroad the ION the har. 


veſt is great; multiply the labourers. 
Kou ſee i in : brother Carey and myſelf hn differences in 


taſte, manners, © &c- bit 1 attire the wifdom and grace of 
God in knitting us together; for we never differ but ve 
agree to differ, and in things wherein it is no matter whe. 


ther we differ or not. We often fall into each others opin. 
ions, are always delighted te to ſee each” other, and we love 
each other fervently, This information, although yon 


have had it before, will * | 


Podo Loſon, my duni /id ſtill an 88 and brother 
Carey has another; both brahmàns. Fhey have expreſſed gren 
concern about the goſpel, but tremble and appear diſmayel 
at heart when the loſs of their caſt is inferred; . 


You deſire me to keep a diary. 1 have had one open 
for _ years, and I may as well give you an extract fron 
it here; though there ſeems fo much ef bne's-HelT in al 
ſuch things, that I ſet about it reluctlantly. 


EXTRACT OF DIARY. | 


— — 


Nov. 1. 1795. Mr. akin: . eb. 
mon in the afternoon at Mudnabutty. Mr. Long, Mn, 
Thomas, myſelf, my daughter; à Mt. Rebellioz Mr. Carey! 
children, Felix and William, and my Portugueſe boy Au. 
drew, were hearers; about forty natives were ſpectatom 
The text, Vifdlom is juſtified of ber children > after which 
I addreſſed the natives at the water fide. Mr. S. Povel 


279 


e 
was beptiſed by Mir. Carey, che uſval words. 
boch in Engliſh and Bengalee:: I chen — 
ture f the od inande to che natives; after which er; ig. 
brother Cateys myſelf, Powell, and Long, fignified our de- 
ſie to enter into a church ſtate, and gave each other the right- 


hand fellomſhip: We then partgok together of the _ 
Supper, ende by My Carey. « 

Dec. 17. cc 171 may but touch the hem of this 3 
] ſhall be whole.” This woman's diseaſe was great and 
malignant, "no nicdicine could heal it. Her words are a 
ſpecimen of great faith, and a fine expreſſion ory ths great 


virtue the re is in Jeſus Chriſt... 


« Pray ye the Lord of ths tintvett; that he will ſend 
forth more labqurers.“ This command, no doubt, the 
diſciples obeyed, and their prayers were well minded 
in heaven; for how ſoon after did the Lord of the har- 


veſt ſend forth Mage labourers into all the world! 


« The hairs of our head ate all numbered: fear not 
therefore,” Nothing, then, can affect my life, or any of its 
comforts, without God; and if vexations and troubles in- 
creaſe, and God be in them, with what. humility, patience, 
and reſignation, ought I to behave z and receive . num- 


ber and length ee eee 


Jan. 8, 1796. A miſſionary ought to be very 1 in 
this grand truth, By grace ye are ſaved. - For he that is 
really clear in this matter, is led moſt naturally, like Paul, 
into the practice of this ſhining precept: Be ye there- 
fore ſtedfaſt, immoveable, always abounding in the work 
of the Lord; foraſmuch as ye know that your labour is not 
in vain in the Lord.“ | | 

| O 0 2 


—— 


— — 1 WV Y 1 ng 


3570 I vent this afternoon to ſee my Pundit (Poly 


> et 


. 280 


ESSE 


0 
+ nr is ſtck of a fever, and found many people gather. you 
ed round the door to ſee-me,'among whom was Jaggernau, 
a man whom I lately attended in a very dangerous fert : 
and flux, and of whoſe recovery 1 had ſcarcely any hopes nel 
On this occaſion, the following converſation paſſed. "7 
Question. J aggernaut, when Tu were ſick, had you any # 
| mn of dying Sn ö = 
N A f 1 had no hope of ie till 14 1 your me- ſee 
dicines. 1 bai 
Q. If you a Ya P'S? why {wal dere Meere of you Bl 
A. I ſhould; have been taken to Sadedlipoor®, , po 
7 But what would become be your foul? E . 5 
2 I do not know. 132 og 3 m. 
'Q: Not know! Do you n ſo much what willhe 7 
come of you for a ſhort Hf and not what will become a £ 
* ever? , eee 5 
1.4. What do you think? 10 5 de 
4 Do you think vou atten done good 2 


A. If I fay I have done good, it vill have the appeate ye 
ance of pride ; ; let others ſay it for me. U 


* 6. But every man has ſome thoughts of himſelf, ndl 5 


ae A: 
A. I do not know whether 1 have oof any a 0 
* not. £ | IF n 


* 9 is an adjacent br anch of the ganges; where Hindoos bri 
their dead from great diſtances t&:burn them, 


ah 


$ bring 


281 
20000 
Q. Is there any body elſe then in this world, or ſions 
you think that they R % 1 i is 
A. Ves; yen did good when you viſited me in my lick. 
neſs, and relieved me. | 


"£4 


. Q. did no more than my Wy ; but to do good in Goo 8 


account is a great matter. A bad man, as a thief, may 
viſit and relieve the ſick, for various ends that are not good; 
and ſo may do good in every body's account but God's who 
ſees his heart. No man can do good in H1s account with a 
bad heart. One fin corrupts the whole heart—the whole 
man. How then can a ſinner do good? In the word of 
truth I am taught, that if I give all my goods to feed the 
poor, without a right ſtate of beat, 5 nothing.“ 1 It 
your heart be good, J aggernaut, then you are good, and 
have done good; but then, why. were you ſick? Why 
must you die? Sickneſs and death are the conſequence of 
man having done evil; your having done any evil, diſcovers 
your heart to be evil, as a tree is known by its, fruits. But 
now you are ſpared longer, and brought up from the gate 
of death, ſuppoſe you ſet yourſelf to do good, what will you 
do? If you confider what is good in God's account, and 
try to do that, you will ſoon find jt againſt your nature to 


do ſo, becauſe you are evil, Try to make your heart good; 


you will find it harder work till. - See the buffalo; he feeds 
upon graſs : ſee the tiger; he feeds upon fleſh: go and 
make the buffalo eat fleſh, or the tiger cat graſs; you will 
find either of theſe eaſier than to make your evil heart good. 
God is infinitely juſt and rizhteous : what would become 
of the fins that are paſt, if you were, never to fin any 


more? | 3 


One 4 the brahmans anſwered for him, and ſaid, He 


muſt do as much good as would obliterate all that was 
bad, 


„ 
N | What is "RO —5 1 5 dn. 
commanded f 


A. Ves but he. muſt do more chin be is command by 
| a , 


ef . bis fervant to et will he 

pleaſe his maſter by going on to Malda? To do any thin 
more or leſs _ yours . er can never es _—_ 
woo: 


— 


A Tm, very „ | 


* Or, ſuppoſe l go to Dootau, and buy rice and lil, 
on credit, till 1 am thirty rupees in debt, when the ma 
will let me have no more without the money, and ſo! 
pay him daily for what I take; will this discharge the 
thirty rupees ? Here I returned to the impoſſibility of a ma, 
whoſe heart had ever been defiled, doing good ; and heyce in- 
ferred and preached the neceſſity, the reality and ſuitable 
neſs of a Saviour. e 


After * time Bodo Labs the pundit, ſpoke. 


K Sabelb l (aid he) 1 dase aten ee fay thata 
ſinner muſt come to Chriſt What: does this mean? Hoy 
does a ſinner come to Chriſt? 


A. Coming to Chriſt is a ſpiritual wing it is wie 


ful; it is ſimple! When a man knows and feels that he is lol 
in himſelf, a guilty ſinner, hopeleſs and helpleſs, and on the 
report of the goſpel he begins to look to Chriſt for par 
don, life and ſalvation—this is coming to Chriſt. Hoping 
defiring, believing, truſting, this is coming to Chriſt. Be 
begins to liſten to Chriſt as his Ln, well as his Savior: 
this is coming to Chriſt. 


* A ſort of ſhop. 


> 
5 
r ” Ga 7 


Another very senſible man, a brahman of the higheſt or- 
der (a koolin or noble) much: reſpected of the people, ſaid, 
that what I had diſcourſed upon was very good, and juſt like 
the Hindro Shafters. I went over the old ground to convince 
him of his error, when he replied, But there is one of our 
ſhaſters at leaſt that is a good ſhaſter, a true ſhaſters a holy 
ſbaſter; and in is Thur nity the doctrine of which is like: 
what you fay. NEV 0 


Q. Do you believe (faid 901 in ede, brahman? a 
A. Les. | 50 

Q What is the name of it ? lot 

A. It is the Oger Shaffer: -:: 15 

Q. Have you got it with you „ pane | He 5 nin 

Q Have you got it in your poſſeſon at hose? · gel. 


Q. No! Bilieve in it without peg! it! Whit a wouls 
you think of my faith in the Bible, when I tell you that 
| believe it to be the Mord of God, if L had not got one? 


10 Aſter much more ferious converſation; I took leave of the 
people, and more privately enquired of the brahman, of how' 
many parts or volumes the Oggobrr Shafter conſiſted? He 
Jer. old me he did not know the number of volumes, but 
jan they were a great many more than thoſe of the Mahabarat, 
he which are eighteen. I aſked him how many of theſe he had 
par- read? He anſwered Three But I found by this time he 
ping was quite aſnamed of his faith. 


[ forgot to ſay, that before I parted from the _ I re- 
F lated to them the following anecdote. One day having 
procured the ſervices of a very venerable man, after the bu- 


= 
ſineſs was over, I begged him to fit down and read his I. 
ran to me. He ſat down; and with tokens of the greateſ 
reverence and devotion, he gently opened the ſacred volume 

which was neatly folded up iti ſilk and cloth. None coul 
behold him without admiring every look, every word an 
every motion. He began with an audible voice to read, ot 


rather chant, a line or two, when I interrupted him, and. 


begged he would explain the meaning of it, for it wa 
written in Arabic. He told me he could not, as he on 
underſtood the name of God, and the proportion of one 
word to ten. After he had done, I fetched my Bible, and 
read and explained to him. At laſt I offered. to purchal 
his book; but he ſaid, he would never fell the koran: but if 
I would make him a preſent of ten * he would make 
me @ preſent of a koran | 1 

So far J have given you ns 3 my 1 [ 
will now add a fable or two which the brahmans repeatel 
to me yeſterday from ſome of their ancient books. If thing 


of this kind ſhould not ſuit - you there are others who will 


thank you for them. 


| I 15 firſt observe, that the jackall is WE of great 


cunning, larger than, our fox, and feeds on fleſh : we heat 


them every night ſurrounding our habitations, and they ol. 
ten wake us out of our {leep with their howlings. 


— 
* 


| The evil of keeping bad company. 


| THERE was a Crow and a Deer, who bad 125 lives 
an terms of great friendſhip; and when they had been out 
after their reſpective food, the crow returned to à tree in 
the jungles, under which the deer had alſo found a ſafe re- 
treat, and here they daily had converſation together. One 
day a jackall came by, and faw the deer, and formed an ac- 
quaintanee with him. The crow, obſerving this, bid the 
deer beware of him, for he was a very great raſcul; but 
notwithſtanding his friend's advice, he was perſuaded by the 
jackall to go out with him, where he promiſed to ſhew' 
the deer fine paſture, of either graſs, or rice, which he 
might feed on, without moleſtation : he did ſo, and the deer 
[and jackall returned together in company daily, After 
ſome time the owner of the field obſerved the miſchief done 
by the deer, and laid a net for him, and caught him, whilſt 
his enemy lay in wait for his bones. The crow finding the 
deer not come home, as uſual, went out to ſearch for him, 
and found his Friend i in this ſad diſtreſs 3 * O, ſaid the crow, 
that you hafl hearkened to my advice! What will you do?“ 
| muſt be killed, returned the deer, for I cannot get out. 
If you will hearken to me, ſaid the crow, you may yet eſ- 
| Cape, Yonder comes the owner of the rice, who laid the 
ſnare for you: you muſt feign yourſelf quite dead, and I will 
Yight on your head, as though I were picking your eyes: 
te man ſeeing a dead deer will open his net careleſsly, 
Pp 


and you may then flee Ay your life, Ti he deer did & 
and * 


FABLE 11. 
7 he value of good counsel. 


6 A number of young 3 perched on a * diſcover. 


ed at ſome diſtance, a quantity of food, which a fowler hat } 


put there for a ſnare ; they were all about to alight, and ea 
it; but an old dove called to them, and ſaid, Do not go 
near that place, ſome miſchief will befall you, the appear- 
ance of the food is quite ſuſpicious. The young folks 
were a little deterred by this counſel, till one of them ſad 
the old dove only wanted it for herſelf, there was no das- 
ger; and if none of the reſt went, he was determined not 

to loſe his ſhare. He inſtantly alighted, and all the ret 
followed him, except the old one; and preſently they were 
all tangled ina net. The old dove flew to their affiſtance; 
and told them not to flutter about as they did,” one- pulling 
one way and another another, but all to fly unanimouſly to 
one part of the net. They did ſo, and raiſed up the net 
and flew away with it till their ſtrength was exhauſted, and 
they fell down in the field. Here they began to bewal 
their condition, and to ſay that the counsel of the old dove 
was of no uſe to them in their diſtreſs, as they were al 
{ill in the net. The old dove preſeatly came up, and told 
them to wait a little with patience; for, ſays ſhe,-therelive 
in this neighbourheod an old friend of mine, and if he be t 
home he will ſoon ſet you all free. The dove having com- 
forted them, flew away; and preſently returned with at 
old rat, who gnawed the net, and ſoon ſet them * 1 
liberty. 


' + 1 
4 0 2 2 nern S 0 R | , 
} 'E " HUDL 72 8 12 * 45 10 * 1 1 1 wy Q # * 4.5 2 . 3 i W 
. 2 1 . 
* 1 ATP „nan a p : | aff . een PR = 
1073-8 1 193? 2 1 | WE; . 4 1 4 11 24 "> 
& 1+ _— FF 71 1 7 2 1 81 i* 1 
$6: 84 3 + SIHES nf 4 11 9 444 


tb dic ' FABLE me 


Fzj #4 oy 7 EDS * 


The danger of ambition. 


A king © bc che ackalls' complained to his + ſubjefts that 
he, and all his family, were waſted away for want of ſome 
fleſh to eat; when one of his ſubjects ſaid, that he and all 
his friends were very much ſhocked and grieved at the ſtate 
of his majeſty's affairs, and that he would undertake to,pro- 
cure immediate and abundant relief. He went to a neigh- 
bouring jungle, where there lived an elephant, to whom he 
addreſſed himſelf; ſaying, that their old king was dead, and 
chat it was the unanimous deſire of the jackalls to make 
10 the elephant king i in his place. The elephant being guided 
* by the jackall, ſet off immediataly to take poſſeſſion of the 
not 

rel 


kingdom; at laſt the jackall came to a fearful bog, but he 
jumped over, while the poor elephant fell in, and was un- 
able to move : the jackalls waited for his death with cruel 


r wockings, bidding him lay hold on their tails and they 
ing WY would pull him out; but at length he died of hunger, « and 
yt the jackalls fell upon him and devoured von. BE ns . 
* — 2 n 

and ng DSU 

wall | | — January 24. 


I AM just "returned from preaching, under the great 
tree, about one hundred yards from my houſe. My text 
was taken from Acts x. 34—43 3 but the firſt thing we 
have to do, oftentimes, is to prove that a man is not a beaſt. : 


e However ſtrange it might appear to diſcuſs ſuch a propoſi- 
tion in England, it is very neceſſary here, where men are 
| taugnt from their infancy to look upon themſelves as liable 


p 2 


to become hogs, dogs, cows, « or 1 according to their 
merits or demerits. I had a very attentive congregation, 
conſiſting of ſomething more than one hundred hearers; an 


both the old man who; would not ſell his koran, and Jag. 
* who had 0 n were _— 


CI . \ K 
ad is ma DEFY 1 pers)” & &c. 1 EE my « 
7 70 here. b Perhaps there are few texts which run ſo d. 


rectly contrary to the generally received notions both of 
Hikidos and Mahomedans : : but, without taking any notice 


of their ' notions, 1 dwelt on this aſſertion, « z0d | is no tt. 
| ſpecter of perſons * hence the poor as well as the rich= 


the ignorant 3 as 15 as the wiſe and learned the black, a 


110 


the white—the ſeryent a well as his ma fter—the Hindo 


pa, well, as the 1 Mahomedan as well as the 
ae I every country ee he, that feareth God and 
Wl a KDA is accepted with him.” "Peace by 


©» «& 


ro Sb is e witnelſes—prophecies of him—his being 17 


3 {+ # 


= to 12 5 iy — e ee and all men- 


The Hindoo Shaſters make God a wholier of perſons, 


| inasmuch as no other nation under heaven can partake d 


their ſhifters,” or be of their religion, which admits of n0 
proſelytes ; ſo that if I wiſhed to become à Hindoo, and 
could give all the wealth of India, I muſt be utterly rejet 
ed; and in this, their religion (if it be W of ſo ſerious 
a Haile) ditfers from every other. 


eit 
p, 


- — — 0 4 RS | J 128 FRY - 275 ny 
W ! * r 7 * p ME IT 7+ | | 1 4 AS » F * 
10 of at B 7701 3; ET 4 L241} 4 4 64 23 * BR a” 33 2% oY 
2A At ; . ” * 


A ie 2410; 5 


pie 26. 
"wy I wel wen juſt now 35 2 BY 1515 is full of 


human miſery. 1 will rar you the whole of it, A few days 
220, a) u de. woman came tc to | my door, who complained of 
being cry i he had come twelve e or fourteen miles, by 
degrees, from the city « "of oy our, to alk relief. of me, 
If Ber blo: ated in the face an 9 8 as though. ſhe "bad 
that fort of drop fy called anafarca. 1 underſſood the had a 
fever, with a OTE of other diſeaſes and pains. She 2 alſo 


| told me that The had nothing to eat, and no home to go to. 


I gave her what ſhe wanted, and in two or three days ſhe 
ſeemed, much, better.: About three days ago, I. Was fiding 
out, and ſhe called to me, and ſeemed in a more Janguiſtiing 
way than before. 1 found her houſe, or hut, was too.cbld'; 


| and I rode up to another, where a erippled muſſulman and 


all his family. are living on what. little they get from me. 
I begged them to let this por creature come in-to_fleep, as 
the nights are cold; . but, they ſaid, No, ſhe was pot. a Ma- 
bomedan: and if, ſhe, came in, they muſt turn cut. 1 
thought ſhe had been a Mahomedan ; and I rode back and 
akked her, are you a Mahomedan ? No. A Hindoo? No. 
What are you, then? J am (ſaid ſne with rü an- 
guild) the child. of a common proſtitute. I now pitied her 
more than ever, knowing, chat do native of this country 
would pity or relieve her in her complicated diſtreſs, be- 
cauſe ſhe Was of #0! cat. I. then told the family that ber 
diſtreſs was the greateſt; and they muſt remoye into ſome of 
the more diſtant, houſes, and ſhe muſt be admitted immedi- 
ately, as the day was far gone; ſo they parted off one end of 
the houſe, and let her come in; but I ſound ſhe could not 
riſe, and on enquiry learnt that ſhe had dreadful ſores of a 
venereal kind, which ſhe had too much modeſty left to men- 
tion, I got her removed, and ſent her a coarſe cloth; 

and as ſhe was of no caſt, ſhe gladly partook of food which 


0 b 2. 


was dreſſed by us; 10 1 fene her ſome fowl and chicken 
broth, and Mrs. Thomas and Mrs. Carey viſited her, a 
acquainted. me more particularly with her ſituation, The 

| evening before the laſt ſhe complained of cold, and 1 ſent 

| her ſome warm broth, and a perfon to wake | her a fire; 

f thought ſhe could hardly ſuryive the night, and. the fir 
Word I Beard the next morning Was, the poor woman i 

| dead. My whole body and mind are affected with ber miſe. 

| ries," and theſe were t emporary—Alas | where is ber poor 
; fout ? Why, 1 dare ſay, in a tar more tolerable,” Rate thay 
| mine would be, if! departed | this moment and had; go Chriſt! 


* * Y 1 * as * ® x 7 #5 5 «> | %; 4 - 
- FRA GD 92 + 44 5 1 hy R 1 33 2 


| Yeſterday morning called a | Mahomedin tibial, and 

cold him this poor woman muſt be buried. I committed 
the burial to him, and told him I would pay whatever 
charges were neceſſary: he ſaid, very well, and went out; 


but ſoon returned, ſaying, that no Muſfulchan would bury yt 
her, becauſe ſhe was not of their religion. I then ſent him has 
out among the loweſt of the Hindoos, and they alſo refuſed, inn 


At laſt one man whoſe office is ſomething like a nightman' | 

in England, undertook it, on condition of being well paid * 

for it; but in a little time this ſame man came back re- 

| fuſing to dig a grave for her; for if he did; he ſaid, nobody 
i would eat or drink with him, and (low as it was) he ſhould 
| loſe his caſt. He wanted to have her thrown into a pond * 
juſt by, or into the next field where the jackalls might de- kr 

vour her in the night: however, at laſt I prevailed; z in 

grave was dug, and ſhe was buried, and 1 find 1 have ſe- WW) 

cured: the man his caſt; but had it been an European, un- 

acquainted with the cuſtoms and manners of this people, w 

the body muſt have remained where it was; and being in a i 

houſe, the jackalls would not faon have devoured it, and ih 


* 
> #s « 


2. 


the moſt ſerious PORE + wa to others might have enfued. 
Finally; Bleſſed be God for the goſpel, for where I to ap- 
pear before. God, and be judged: according to my conduct to- 
| wards: this poor woman, though I had ſome compaſſion on 
ber, yet where I to ſtand or fall by this, I find I; ſhould 
be everlaſtingly. condemned by that law, * Thou ſhalt love 
thy neighbour as thyſelf.” I feel alſo how right and reaſon- 
able it is, that I ſhould 40 ſo.; and what a horrible wicked- 
neſs. it is not to love another even as I love myſelf; but 
daily experience teaches me what a wretched righteouſneſs 
theirs is who have nothing hut their own n beſt ATi 
to look to for Kd FE. 


Do not ſend men of any ee FR, 5 it will 
break their hearts. Do ſend men full of compaſſion, here, 
where many periſh with cold, many for lack of bread, and 
millions for lack of knowledge. This country abounds with 
" miſery. - Laſt _ Wedneſday a poor widow, whoſe huſband 
had been dead about ten months, brought to my door the 


aa infant of which ſne had been delivered that night, and but 
4 a few hours before ſhe brought it; OE: that I Em" | 
5 ye. it in, and W 0 it ol 
1 In England the poor receive the benefit of 4. 3 | 

u 


in being fed and cloathed by those who know not by what 
they are moved. For when the goſpel is generally ac- 


tes knowledged in a land, it puts ſome to fear, and others to 

mme; fo that to relieve their own ſmart, they provide for 

le the poor : but here, O miserable Sight! I have found the 

10 path-way ſtopped up by sick and wounded people, periſhing 
b 


with hunger, and that in a populous neighbourhood, where 
numbers paſs by, ſome ſinging, others talking, but none 
ſhewing mercy 3 as though they were dying weeds, and 
not dying men, = | | oO 


Tpbere is ſuch — SO eſe i eines 
Nen, eſpecially to thoſe who have been accuſtomed u 
feel difleelſes of their own; that I'wendet-at any imain's te 
ny ing himſelf this pleaſe,” who is able to pive. © What! 
Juxuty it is (and thy eyes are full of sweet tears While! 
write it) to see por helpleſs ereatüres ho come to your 

d cor; deſpair balf fills their ountenantes; and their bodie 
ſeem half dead—relieve them and O, behold their del 
Bodies ſpring into motion: down to the earth they fall int 

7 rioilent, overjoyed with your Imall dohation—again they 
kol-up at you with tears of joy, and then look in thei 

| hands again for fear it ſhould all be à dream. 1 ſay this b 

Juxury, and the moſt luxurious pleasure I have taſted here, 

except: only the ekceelling tiches of the grace of God 
to us iti Chriſt Jesus; who, though be 1 was: TW ber our 

fakes Sy e SO bleſſed rad 4 5 


inſt 

9 1 an to cell, you 3 our | ſucceſeful Ee 5 

4 FINE converted by thouſands : but it may be ſeven. years, and 10 
$even to that, before you hear of what you expect. Wha “ 

Joſeph was ſent of God to ſave millions, it was ſeven years 1 

before one ſoul was ſaved by his miſſion, and then they were not 

| ſaved by millions. I go on this day with as much pleaſure that 
1 5 as e n 175 ever 10 much ſuccek, Rm 
i ad can fag oth ( 53 cf 
3 « « Sweet i is the work my God n wy King !” * a 
EY W give a million pounds ſterling, if I had it, w bo 

20 a Bengal Bible. 0 moſt merciful God, what an ineſtima- ſur 

ble bleſſing will it be to theſe millions The angels of Wi * 


= Heaven will look down upon ĩt to fill their mouths with Wil en 
9 new praiſes and adorations. | Methinks all heaven and bell . 

1 | will be moved at a bible's entering ſuch a country as this, at 
O Lord, ſend forth thy light an hy truth 


— 

Laſt Lord's day evening I tranſlated that bymn, « Come 
ye ſinners, poor and wretched,” &c. and it is getting up 
for next Lord's:day,,to be ſung in the Engliſh way, I 
think brother Carey will be here, and it will ſet his heart 
on fire again. 


The great thing ir rinary” for his own comfort 
and uſefulneſs, is to be like a dead man to the world; and 
to engage in nothing, however trivial, without converſing 
with God. This will prevent him from following after 
rain. things which cannot profit, and put an, increaſe of bit- 
terneſs in that which is evil, and a greater ſweetneſs. in 
doing good. I am going to read the,life of David Brainerd, 
that L may tread in his ſteps, as he trod in Chriſt's —0 
what a miſſionary was he! Poor Brainerd is vaniſhed in an 
inſtant; but every miffienary of Chriſt: ſhould” excel in 


ſelf. denial and compaſſion for ſouls he ſhould be cut out in | 


body and ſoul for labour: an fine, a miſſionary. n be a 
ons repreſentative of the lowly, WT Nn. 
| You — Aer a A nor "the FR Ne 3 Goa has 
not ſent us, hither, for nothing. You will, be pleaſed to hear 


ha 


that a brahman at Baſattipara, after my preaching, of his | 


own accord deſired, to have a book, that he might read. to 
the people, which rejoiced, my heart; he comes four miles 
to hear me every Lorc's-day, and I go to his village, which 
is populous, to preach on Friday afternoons. In due time I 


hope we ſhall be able to give the ſociety much more plea - | 
ſure than we can now. Preſent. my loye to Mrs. F. and to 
all the brethren, eſpecially to thoſe who think of going out 


on Miſſions; and more eſpecially to ſs AS are inclined 


Crt * wage; more, hunks. e ert yam 
way — 2 1 N \; bo, f 
. + 1 ; = 8 
* x8 te 53 5613 mon ven, . 5 
. | 1 13211 Ii ON : : 1 a j Fn 
» $i G 7 | c 8 7. 
, x 07 $1503 3299 


— — 


ee eee 
„ — Pp 


: of the power aid effects of his word on ſome of dur heat, 


ee Rb - $. -# e's 1 x 8 4 * 3 5 * 2 14 94 
. t A , 
5 1 ; a: 8 1 L.. 5 
11 237 8 hb he. 5 4 a WIN 16 1 
e e N A 2 7 


: E * x 
«434.48 : Fi? k 5 7 1 47 1 i | : 4 
2 13 4 ' , ; $ : : 
ng 3 4 # 4 1 1 1 4 


11 


1 


FRAN 05 . SE 5298 eric 19 | ae Ds 
Wr WE have rated d c for ſome appenrane 


but it ſeems more like the moving of the Spirit on che fa 
e waters, than like the particukar acts warnen 


111 ie Prindie "alles Mags, eds bees 7 5 w 
parts of the ſcriptutes of us: brother Carey has another ut 
two, and ſome people have ſent us a hopeful Jetter from Dj 
nggepour ; ſo that they ate not totally indifferent about the 
goſpel, although they have only heard the converſation of 
Mi Hit Rua. 1 And the Lord has appeared to ariſwer the 
prayers of brethren in Eug land, und remembered his 'formtr 
mercles in gr racibus feviwals; ; To'that," for my part, I, who 
bat u little Wm ihe Sed 16 Rae up” und ſpeak'to'the 
nuitives, non Jeftg te de "thus em eee I will 
that 1 may 'berefteſhed;; and ' of preaching 8 

it bf a pump, 1 ſpeak of the over wings of my heart 
Our! congregation” iheresſes ; and on the Lords ay we 
eie Baches Coming Beröte "the Relds from ull pitt» 
Bear the word öf God; and yeſterday, at the market, which 
is held twice a werk under a great tree neat my bouſt, 
many ſtrangers aſked if I ſhould preach next 'Lord's-day, 
profeſſing their deſire to come and hear me. I intend preac 
ing to them to- morrow from Prov. i. 22, 23, and [I long 
for the time to make haſte. Two tranſlating affiſtants are 
juſt come in, and b muſt take leave; but let me juſt ſa tb 


eat, but, ust adiſy part. of. our labours, I have ſet my 
whole heart unon—much of the holy {eriptures is. already | 
intelligible, to, the inhabitants of this country. G that 
this light may not go out, and that we may by no means 
quench, or grieve him who comforts our hearts, and 
frengthens and enlivens our hopes and expectations. 1 can, 
no more doubt that the Lord will bleſs our miſſion now, 


than I can doubt of the rifing. of the ſun again. 


[ have been refreſhed by your Ls and thoſe of the 
ſociety. I was particularly affected with their zeal for 
the proſperity, of the miſſion, blended. with that moderation 
reſpecting our peculiar eircumſtances and ſituation, Which 
more than ever endeared them to my heart; but above. all, 
my ſoul is fatisfied' as with marrow and fatneſs, at the 5g 
tience and goodneſs of God to me: as it ſparkles in the text 
I juſt mentioned, it is mar vellous and ine xpreſſibly admira- 
ble. Whom have I in heaven but thee,” &c. is as eaſy 
and clear to utter now, as, God be merciful to me, a ſin- 
ner.” But I have need to keep à watchful and jealous eye 
over this braking heart of mine, which has betrayed me a 
thouſand times, leſt it again deceive me. I will truſt it no 
more ; but my eye is gone up into the higheſt heavens—to 
Him who compaſſes me round about. I could write a vo- 
lume; but this will be enough to encourage your prayers 
for us, and for the poor Hindoos, and to put a little melody 
into your praiſes allo—*c Praiſe ye the ecard 15 


1 am now in my ſtudy; and oh, * is a e place, 
becauſe of the preſence of God with the vileſt of men, It 
is at the top of the houſe ; I have but one window in it, out 
of which I can ſee nearly fifcy villages, all within three 
miles, and above half bf them within a mile of me. 1 ſpend 
moſt of the day here now, 15 89 up to it as 5 though 1 were 


Qq2 


& 


that theſe mercies to the meaneſt of my maſter's ſervant 
may be a token for good; t the Lord is coming to reyeil 
his arm to this people, a and to ſffed marvellous light at 


life on thoſe Who fit in darkneſs and” "the ſhadow of 


+7 death! | Amen. „ eee 


i ien „ p p * 
ie E's : 8 4 1 9 
* = * 4 * A * 14 7 yz | 


[1G 10 am „ ju returned e e a; populow ", 
lage four miles from this place, where I have been to open 
A weekly Jecture, and from whence ſome come to hear me 

every Lord's-day at Adaypaul. I had about two hundred 
cloſe liſteners pray for us! Love to all the brethren es. 
a thats ak ſet their Sy; Bagel, ina 7 


25 "3 © h * * '7 3 L Tel 


" . 8 
£035 #3 I 11 | — 


tt .I Cf 1 17 » 21 
* 1 ry % + 4 75 fs bs, ts 


7 
£ © 71 "; * * : 
* © 4 4 „ PF, 16 $ 3 


l . * March $; m 

1 HAVE 3 bans talking to FOE or seventy of 

the natives of this country, about the power and glory of 
our Lord Jesus Christ, in cleanſing the leper : and the ( 22 
turions ſervant. I came among them very ſpiritleſs; dit 
when I left them, I felt like one that had been anointed 
with freſh, oil. It was a ſweet ſeaſon, in which tbe 
ſtrength of Chriſt: ſeemed exerted and e wn in a time 
of much weakneſs. A Pundit, who is very inquiſitive 
fuſt of all read the eighth chapter of Matthew; after thi 


— 


going up to the houſe of Go3—to the gate of Heaven, :'Oj 


„ = AX == 


297. 

Le 
Lid a few Words, intending it as & general. preſace i but 
was led away into the heart of my ſubject ere I was aware. 
I pauſed, and we ſung an hymn; then prayed, and re- 
ſumed my diſcourſe then prayed and ſang; again, and 
again continued my diſcourſe. This will perhaps appear 


very ſingular, unleſs I farther. explain myſelf. , The pre- 


face is always delivered in conſideration | of ſome. among 


the number who never heard before, and wh ate ſure 


to reply te what you ſay, and. aſk queſtions in the. midſt 


of your diſcourſe, unleſs they are expreſſſy deſired not to 


do ſo; and beſides this, | there are truths already ſtated 
and known to thoſe who hear the goſpel. ſtatedly, with 


which the new-comers being totally unacquainted are ſo 


much the more in danger of miſapprehending my mean- 
9 N . 


8 * — F "= 5 
: 12 1 22 4 . = IS N * 1 
Bt 5 TL 1 3 4 ? 1 V. 9 J. * 12 rt 1 


Tube „e at boch our dagen 1448 a5 they-work, 5 


And ſome few appear to NI under very decke, 
ſons. A number of very creditable Mahomedans paid 
brother Carey a viſit lately, on putpoſe to hear the goſ- 
pel. Another meſſenger came to him from à village, 
in the "neighbourhood of which are ' ſeveral thouſands, 
defirous of hearing the goſpe 1j and 1 had ſome few 
come to-day from'# ene diſtance, though the whe- 
ther was very rough and threatening. We have both been 
encouraged and animated ſenſibly and viſibly by theſe things, 
though we have ſtill fears and diſtreſſes, if we enquire “ to 
whom, (in particular,) is the arm of the Lord revealed?” I 
truſt God will appęar at laſt: the devices of the heathen 
areas nothing before him, and every difficulty under which 
we now labour will fiy anon, as chaff before the hurricane. 


I am exceedingly deſirous, my dear fir, of hearing 
from you; for I find by * that the letters of our 


ct 
— Tz 


*% 24 A — 8 = * 

AM - wel . 
8 5 * Le : 
_ N. ws 


J 
, >, 5 * 63 * 
Sr 2 
— e - ad 
-” - l TI t. 


1 


* 


1 1 E LIE * 
I ad % \ LO : RN Wah _ 
nas py n 


_—_— _ b 
ol _— - \ - 
| I 
=— 
— - 
2 2 — — — 
PP 


——— — 2 — 2 ww ů — 
* — — — — - 


2 —— 1 ——7 — — — — 
— — an ; — * i: APY = _— wy Tod 
. ˙²˙ A > XG ge: Ge ů — ͤ.· CATED WIFI hey . 2 K 
a m 3 5 af a — 
— 
- 
4 


————— CENTS —— 


— — —— 


* 


by che bleſſing of him that “ hearkens and keeps z book 


4 * 
\ . 
* 


our breaſts. This is but a dry and cold climate for the ſoul, 


though for the moſt part hot enough for the body. You: 


letters bring news from a far country yes, neut; for ifa 
brother write that Jeſus Chriſt was crucified; this is neus 


althougl known before; and other truths,” equally wel 


known and received, in communications of love, are; 


of temembrance,ꝰ made peculiarly awful, inſtructive, awak- 
eningy and animating; Is it not ſo in natural affection, 
as well as ſpiritual; that if a ſon receive a letter fron 


his father, though it contain no new information, yet it 


fills the breaſt with new joy, _ — 
and new deſires to pleaſe? Of: 


Oh that you would think of us as a father thinks of 
his children, and give us that counſel. and thoſe tokens 
of remembrance, which I am perſuaded would realize 
all this and much more. Adieu, my dearly beloved ſir! 
May the glory of our Lord Jeſus Chriſt be continually 
unfolded to you, to fill your heart and move your lips 
to the honour of God, and the ſalvation of ſouls. Accept 
my poor expreſſion of love, and mention me in love 
to Mr. H, and all my brethren the ſtudents; but 
* to hoſe . who ſet their faces * 


* 
5 Tour, Kc. 

3 7* 4 4 - . 
* 1 n 2 g 2 
1 85 8 ? T- 
ft J. ; * 
* 4 * ? : : 
4 n 1 FS, . 4 1 e 
3 7 . , : | M7 
* * 1 « 


2 2 FFF 


\ 
* 
* — 
5 \ 
o 1 
= *; * I % * 1 * . { SB, & * z l 
e enn enn 1 f ni 1 
4 1 
1 | : | $3 1 
| * f — ö N . 3 : 4 1 * * - ths 9 « - o * 5 ” 
* pe 
4 1 , 2 1 f 
= A Wo is * 
. Cana o 1 erben, e 
4 E p 17 <> 
OS a 
4 4 - : 
i\ 14 4 ” : £4 * # x > . $ 3 
« x £7 " 4 
14 222 4 : : 7 Fa 4 
4 
2 * 4 hs e "Sb * : { 4 f. ; 
144101 ry {eva hs +: +: "HER Y%ET 5 17 — be F4 6 2 * 


11 |Mudnabatry, April a3, 1 


1 AM very / happy to hear that the Lord ou not 
forſaken the churches in England, but that you enjoy 
ſpiricual proſperity. This is the Lord's doing, and to 
him be all the praiſe. I wiſh I could ſee more of his 
hand with us in a way of converſion; but we, at | 
lament a barren land. Yet my dear colleague has: been 
of late remarkably. Riered. up in the ſervice 1 80 3 "of 

ſon, and this wi en! WI * ; 


- 


1831. 


To fend you news. of hoon e would 
be inſipid food to one who hungers after the enlarge- 
ment of the kingdom of Chriſt; nor would it be pleaſant 
to me to write about things, the beholding of which 
daily fickens me; yet as it may ſhew the depraved ſtate 
of this people, 1 ſhall now and then note ſome parts of 
their mythology, as I find it repreſented in their ſhaſ- 
ters, which I have now begun to read, and which fl} 
me with aſtoniſhment when 1 think that they are ſeriouſly 
believed by any rational creatutes. I find an acquaintance 
with them very uſeful, as I have never yet met with 
a Hindoo who wWas be 8 the abſurditĩes OD 
own ſhaſters. 


Cassinut Mookburgee * is gone from me, in order 
to get employment ; but I have ſome reaſon to hope that 
his convictions will and muſt remain. He is now at 


aſt two hundred miles from hence, gn 
See No * P- 226. 


© 


300. 


the little ſucceſs we 5 bad, I am a from being dif. 
couraged and ſhould I never ſucceed, yet, I am reſolved 
in the ftrength of the Lord Jus, to live and die per. 
ſiting in this Work, and never to give it up but wit 
my liberty or life. The worth of ſouls, the pleaſure of 


3 the work itfelf, and "above all, the increaſe of the Re- 


deemer' 8 kingdom, are with me motives ſufficient, and 
more' than ſufficient to determine me to die in the work 


1 have undertaken. 13 1650 03 cee 759 BA b- 


n 110 FE "$4.5 33 I] Off 245 4 4 140 IF Th 7 4: $3.6 215100 
We have regular worſhip now every Saya I preach 
twice on the Lord's day, and once on every other day 
to the natives, and have very frequent opportunities of 


5 converſing with them concerning the word of God. I 


find it eaſy to confound their arguments; but their beam 
ſtill remain the ſame. When ſpeaking to them of the 
death of Chriſt, I frequently ſay, Now ſuppoſe your 


1 ſhaſters to be true, what ſecurity can you find in them 


for à ſinnbr's eſcape from eternal wrath ? What provi- 
fion for fanctifying his ſoul ? You talk of nine incar- 
nations of God 'paſt, and one to come; but what were 


they for? Fbe utmoſt, to kill # tyrant, or a giant, or 


to reſtore the earth when drowned in a deluge; but what 
has all — to ne ge N d te ann 
from ſin? ? n ain 


. 4 6 4 
x n ; : : 
# & + 4 wt > ! = i "3: 8 16 


\ReſpeRing | their FREY or i which are 
ee I'often ſpeak after this manner: * Suppole 


thele. things exiſt, you acknowledge them all to be in- 


ferior to God; yet you fear them more than him 
why? If they are pleaſed, what will it\ avail, if he be 
angry; and if he be for you, What can hey do t 
. 1 8 | | 


The feats, uit l luſts, &c. of the _ alk 
as recorded in their ſhaſters, furniſh arguments againk 


Kr K. 


alſo; 
aink 


301 | 

eee. Fi 

them which I find important to uſe; but my great weapon 
is and ſhall bes et Jeſus Chriſt, and him crucified, „My con- 

gregation is now aſſembled at ſeven o'clock in the morning, 

and I muſt leave off: my ſincereſt love to all the miniſters, 

and to all the r of the Lord Jeſus Chriſt. 


9 67 5 _ Your's, &c. 


Mr. THOMAS to the SOCIETY. 


j- 1 


Mila, April 2 OH 
IN 33 last I had the pleasure of reading your 
kind letter to brother Carey and myſelf, dated April 7, 1795, 
for which we have much reaſon to bleſs God, and bleſs 
and thank you all. You are very dear to us, and your 
counſels of love exceedingly welcome to our hearts; and 
| hope efficacious in ſtrengthening our hands. 


We have been diſappointed in not yet receiving any 
of the goods which you ſent out for us, except the firſt re- 
mittance of fifty pounds. 


We e the ſame thoughts and fears on our en- 
tering into trade, which you have ſo kindly expreſſed to us; 
and we think, more than ever, that miſſionaries had need 
to be dead indeed to this preſent world. Getting of money 
we are quite ſtrangers to, not having gained one ſhilling 
yet, above neceſſaries; and the thoughts of ever enriching 
ourſelves, or our families, is far from us. On our arrival 
in this country we both ſuffered many ſtraits, fears, and 
reproaches, on the ſcore of * things's 3 ans Lord 


. 


N 
+ 
4 
+ 
* 
: 
f 


quickly, wonderfully,and unexpectedty opened a door to 


Joſs 


for providing for our families, and'perhaps for many oben 
We thought upon the hole that it was quite right in in 
ſelf to enter upon our preſent ee and my $ 
ciety would be pleaſed to hear of it; + ee 203 e 


We are both vety thankful for the reſolution of the 
Society in our behalf, in caſe we ſhould requeſt them u 
ſupply us again with money.“ We reſigned our (alay 
whilſt yet poor, not with the leaſt idea of becoming inde. 
pendent of the Society, but to enable it to extend its be. | 
nevolent exertions in other parts of the world. 


And, oh that God may yet cauſe his face to ſhine upon WY 22 

us, and bleſs. us; that his way may be known upon the i 8% 

earth,,.and. his ſaving health among all nations! May we and 

ſtill- be more than ever remembered in your / prayers, t **' 

we may be kept. from the evil, and do good. I refer WM bof 

you to bribes) Carey” s. letter for all other particulars, and mi 

ws; 

| | Your „ Kc. 

5 no 

. 1 wil 

Mr. CAREY to Mr. /FULLER. | ho) 

1 1 beth to 

— ; ter 

77 By the 

| Mndoobethes: Jens is 19, wo Bre 

| A FEW. 4. ago I received yours and brother N Pre 

Peatce's:of Auguſt laſt, vrhich gave me very great pleaſureʒ p 

and could I: poſſibly: give you reciprocal ſatisfaction by te- ; 4 


rejoice ; but on the contrary we have to lament chat 


* Sec No. II. p. 97, Reſolution 2. 


= 8 


we 


= * K 


S = 


e. 


teen obliged for the cxedit.;of the goſpel to diſcharge the 
Moonſhee; Who, though not unfaithful to me, has been 
guilty of a crime which 3£quired this ſlep, conſidering, the 


profeſſion (though but partial) Which he had mage of, the 
_ was guilty of adultery. 


The aiſcquragement, mites: from. this 3 


is not ſmall, as he is certainly a man of the very beſt. na- 


tural abilities that I haue eyer found among the natives; 
and being well acquainted 1 W ith the phraſeology of ſcripture, 
was peculiarly fitted to aſſiſt j in the tranſlation; but I have 
dow no, hope of him. The tranſlation is notwithſtanding 


going on, though . more flowly . than when he was here; 
and almoſt all the Pentateuch and the new T'sſtament are 


now tranſlated. I have a young pundit with me who 1 


hope will prove uſeſul, though as yet I ſee nothing pro- 


miſing in him with reſpect to the great point of all. 


Vou very encouragingly tell us not to faint if we ſee 
no fruits yet, 1 truſt we ſhall not, and hope that you alſo 
will be kept from diſeouragement on our account, I feel 
very much left the friends of religion ſhould faint at our 
want of ſucceſs : brother Thomas and I are fallible, but we 


| hope only to deſert the work of preaching the word of life 


to the Hindoos with our lives ; and are through grace, de- 
termined to hold on, though our diſcouragements were a 
thouſand times greater than they are. We have the ſame 
ground of hope with gur brethren. In England viz. the 
promiſe, power, and faithfulneſs of God ; for unleſs his 
mercy break the heart of ſtone, either in England, India, or 
Africa, nothing will be done effectually; and he can as eaſily 
convert a ſuperſtitious Brahmin as an e 2 


| 26 more, f Binſt us. than, they were, aa 


— ——— — — — rn. 


| 

| 

| 

' 
4 

of 


- 
. _—_——_—_—_——— — ——— ——  — —_}_— 


— — 


4 


— — 
* It 
* hath. — 8 
2 1 * 
C £ LY 


— 22 It — 5 
3 


a 
von Sg "<a 
1% Wet. 


—— 


__ * n 2 A — r — 
4 o — F 1 — nd 5 "= \ 1 
As ng mp N - £35 bt - . 9 

8 * 8 1 woe „ = k __ * 1 — EIS „2 1 
2 1 5875 13 1 h oh A _ JOY : 
K 55 — = 5 4 l 8 0 : — j 
Oe” — N e 7 e e 

5 2. — 5 

ay : Ro SR 25 2 


8 
n 


— 
2 
PL 


* * 4+ * 
a 2 
5 2 


yy - 1 
QA 


— 
e 


42 


3 0 4 ö 


wn, With _— to print adi the Bible, we were" thin 
too ſanguine. Means have hitherto failed. I think tt con 
will be well for the Society to ſend at leaſt one hundre that 
pounds per annum, which ſhall be applied to the purpoſe 
of | — the Bible, and Wen 1 e | 
| | we 
1 it very important to ſend more miſſionaties eh 
kithir, as we may die ſoon; and if we have no ſucceſon Wi 
it will be a lamentable Lireuhitfdtics: and very much retard ur 
the work of the goſpel. It is very important to have Par 
ſucceſſion to hold forth the word of life, where the work 
is begun. The miſſion to the South Seas affords me very 
great pleaſure.” Surely God is on his way. If ſucceſs & 
not immediately attend every effort, be not diſcouraged; 
: God will TI, appears and build wp. * | 
e . | Yours e. 
„ Tot : 1 go 7 W. C. 
— — — 5 
. 30 724 $87 W217 en 
RESOLUTIONS ha 
& the COMMITTEE MEETING at ARNSBE, 
April 18, 1797. de 
| li 
—— —u— W 
2 | | 1 to 
I. THAT as brother Carey has requeſted the %- re 
ciety to make an annual remittance of one hundred pounds 
for the purpoſe of ſupporting ſchools in India, and defray- f 
ing the expences attending the tranſlation of the ſcriptures, wy 
this requeſt be cheerfully complied with; and as brother "5 


Fountain, of whoſe appointment brother Carey knew no- 


& K K 


42 K 


= 
C4 
— 


303 
2 2e. 


thing when he wrote, will be, for 8 1 


contrary," wholly dependant upon the Society for ſupport, 
that another A eee ve 25 to the remittance. 8 5 


1. The committee are of opinion, that it all an- 
ſwer a better purpoſe if ſome ſelect parts of the ſacred ſerip- 
tures be firſt tranſlated and publiſbed, than to wait for the 
completion of the whole; and that it be recommended to 
our brethren to pay their earlieſt attention to the * 
parts in particular | 


1. The book of Genefis, and the firſt twenty chap- 
ters of Exodus. 


2. Such prediftions in the Plalms and Pins, to 


vhich the moſt frequent and obvious alluſions 


are made in the New Teſtament. 
3. The whole of the New Teſtament. 


III. The committee do moſt cordially approve of 
the zeal, diligence, and perſeverance of our brethren in the 
concerns of the miſſion ; and gratefully rejoice in the 
encouraging proſpect of fucceſs with which their efforts 
have been * i | Az 


— 


IV. That another miſſion through Cormuall be un- 
dertaken this ſummer—that brethren Steadman and Frank- 
lin be requeſted to undertake-it ; and that brother Rodway, 
who has lately been ſtationed in that county, be requeſted 


to continue in his preſent ſituation, till the * brethren 


return from their excurſion.* 


On account of ill health, brother Rodway was not able to realize the 


wiſh of the Committee; but was obliged to quit his tation at an earlier pe- 
riod : we have the ſatisfaQion, however, of hearing that ſince his removal, the 
late of his health i is much mended, . 


306 
„ 


V. Phot: the conduct of Mr. Grigg in Africa, In 


= ant him unfit for the ſervice of the Society any Jong. 
er; the Society will however defray. the expence atten. 
ing his return to England, or his paſſage to America; but in 
caſe hs refule to ow . r eee in Aen. 


_— xd a 
— 5 L 
: , "= ” 4 + 4 ; ' 
wy x, » * : ag $5 A. z 1 k s I% RY : "ak 1 
* 
3 * * 
AD £ #8" $4 * YT EY 
. N v. * tx . * o 4 
2 N f 8 * 2 1 ; K 
2 „ z iy 1 S< 18 3 114 E Tx inns » Fo fey cs 44 
b i v£ | ©. 2 : . 4 - # + 5 BG SD: 4849 $23 8 415 * "= 8 K 4 8 A ” 
A I 


EXTRACTS OF LETTERS © 
' FROM THE | 2000 26 F 1 
MISSIONARIES IN. INDIA, 
From Sep. 2. 1796, to Jad. 2. 1797. 


"Io 1 . : | x 3 \ 7 : * 1 1 0 
2 4 by : * a » * : 4 0 4 ? % » 


4 i 


Mr. THOMAS 40 Mr. FULLER. 


” 
4 1 b 4 
* 1 N 


* Moypauldiggy, Sep. 2 ink 

BROTHER Carey has ſome hearers under great 
concern, on one of whom, a poor labourer, he thinks the 
word of God has taken effedt. I have alſo two or three, 
of whom I ſhould think more hopeful, perbaps, if paſt ex- 
perience did not check me. One is a blind brahm3n, who 
came, about ſix months ago, for medicines for his eyes, 
which however were INS” He n Oo 


Several letters have been written to Mr. Grigg, ns our ideas 
his conduct. The laſt was ſent from the ſociety in Feb. 1797, full of eatneſ 
and tender expoſtulation, entreating him to return home, and aſſuring bin 
that we would not receive him as an enemy but as a brother. Juſt before be 
arrival of this letter, as we have ſince learned, he ſet ſail for America - 


my er 


latio1 
ſerva 
Jelus 
throv 


| Wha 


from 
with 
or by 
I wi 
leavi 
ſteep 
and 
anſ 
ful | 
the 
that 
but 
ente 
hate 
ple. 
but 


307 


82 


bun! bat: he hears the word conſtantly, and ſays that he 


prays to Jeſus Christ night and day. When I have been 
abſent a Lord's day, and preached elſewhere, he comes on 
my return, and profoſſes regret at not hearing the word of 
God that day. On a week day, having ſome cloſe con ver- 
ſation with him, he ſaid, among other things, I am the 
ſervant of Jeſus Chriſt, in my heart!” But, ſaid I, “ If 
Jeſus Chriſt were toſcome and touch your dinner, you would 
throw it all away directly, and refuſe to eat a morſel more. 


from home, and bid a ſervant let off ſuch a vat of indigo 
within half an hour, telling him that if he ſhould forget it, 
or by any means let it ſteep longer, it would be all ſpoiled ; 
I warn him, repeat it, intreat him to take care, and take 
leave: after a long time, 1 returned and found this vat fill 
ſteeping, and of courſe utterly loſt, I call this ſervant, 
and ſay, How is it that you haye not done as I ſaid ? He 
anſwers, O fir, it was in my heart to do it; I am a faith- 
ful ſervant to you in my heart, therefore you will excuſe 
the out ward att—Brahman, Jeſus Chriſt declares plainly 
that many will ſay to him in the great day, Lord | Lord! 
but not theſe, and only thoſe who do the will of God, ſhall 


enter into the kingdom of heaven. He ſays, except a man 


hate all, forſake all, and follow me, he cannot be my diſci- 
ple.“ He went away dejected, and ſtill makes enquiries ; 
but the great deep, I fear, is not broken up. 


The other two appear more deeply concerned at pre- 
ſent, and are both Mahometans. One of them, whoſe name 
is Yardee, often aſks Mr. Powell, me, and my little 
daughter, how ſuch an one as he is can be ſaved; acknow- 
leges that he is a poor ignorant ſinner,” and ſays he is 
greatly diſturbed : he and the other Mahometan are eaſily 
to be known in our ſtated times of worſhip from all the 


eee 
ry by their uncommon Jerjcuſons. Theſe nine con 
fort our r ſpirits, and anĩmate our * W 


Nen ets Dans mb ated at dame 

| tions, and eels: _— in the een of the lay 
uw E "Way 1 21 | 

1 POT being in boſineſ _ * ds mu 

15 par. of the common phraſes and vulgar tongue than I ſhoul 

have otherwiſe done, and am better able to addreſs the com. 

mon people intelligibly, . to use Nr Agures which 

2 _ knows,  - 

Intreat the breche Wen to continue in Wee 

8 interceſſion for us; for their prayers are mingled by thei 

faithful and merciful high prieſt above, with much incenſe; 

and, though not immediately anſwered to their views, at 

never once forgotten before God, but had in continual re- 

'membrance, and will be brought forth at laſt ; for he, that 

puts their tears into his bottle,” numbers up every peti 

tion alſo ; therefore there is no reaſon to deſpair, but to 


continue pray ing always, with all  brayer—with all pet 
ſeverance. cs 


| Yao: Ko. 
8 
— J. 7. 


Mr. FOUNTAIN to Mr. FULLER. 


i | Mudnabatty, Nov. 8, 1796. 
* HAVING obtained help of God, 1 continue to ſwe 
this . a living witneſs to his power, faithfulneſs, and 4 
goodneſs, which are all pledged for the protection of his 


> 7? = & 


309 
20000 
children 3 and 1 now enjoy what, 450 mp enn rer _ 
deprived en viz. e communion mo ſaints, 


"Aker Pros Doing a ee at Madeira, we failed thence 
on the 26th of May ; after which I had a good deal of ſea 
ſickneſs, but got well before we came to the Cape of Good 
Hope. We croſſed the equator on the 17th of June; and 
on the 22nd of July we paſſed the Cape, in 36 degrees ſouth 
Jatitude, We had pleaſant weather till we got beyond 
Madagaſcar; after which we had a fortnight's perpetual 
rolling, with a very heavy ſea, and frequent hail ſtorms; 
but the wind was briſk, and favoured us all the time, ſo 
that we generally went ſeven or eight knots. an hour, till 


ve came to 100 degrees eaſt longitude. We re- paſſed the 


equator on the 2nd of September, and on the 5th entered 
the Bay of Bengal, where we were baffled about by contrary 
winds ſeveral days; but on the 16th, ſafely. arrived at Dia- 
mond- Harbour, 


We loſt but one man during our paſſage ; he caught 
cold in the bad weather, The evening before he died, one 
of the mates requeſted me to go down into the forecaſtle, and 
ſpeak to him. I did ſo, but he was incapable of giving any 
attention. After procuring filence, I prayed over him; he 
died in the night. Next morning the captain ſent his 
compliments to me, wiſhing me to come upon deck, and 
(as he called it) redd prayers over him: I went, and spoke 

to them of the ſhortneſs of life—the certainty of death 
the awfulneſs of dying in ſin—the neceſſity of a. preparedneſs 
for eternity—and of an intereſt in Jeſus Christ, as the only 
preparative for another world : after which I prayed. 
There was ſomewhat of an apparent ſolemnity, and leſs 
[wearing for a day or two; but you, ſir, have been abun- 
Gantly taught, that nothing ſhort of almighty power can 


'SX 


| 
[ 
| 
| 
| 


þ 
| \ 
ny 
3} 
fl 
i 
= 
2 
108: 


to bear a practical teſtimony againſt their filthy conver. 


in ſome of their firſt letters, as having enjoyed on their 


of God in the furtherance of the goſpel. 


- neuen Ag —— Mo rey 
. 2 


310 


eee 
mike! any defies or eu good iĩmpreſſion on the heat q 
man. I never was aſked to preach, as I ſuppoſed I might, 
when I wrote you laſt ; but I bleſs God that he enabled ne 


tion, and ungodly deeds. I often wiſhed for thoſe ſeat 
of worſhip which brethren Carey and Thomas mentiong 


paſſage; or that I were in I CO 172855 hip 
where, | 


een man and mariner on ea 
„The willing heralds of the Lord, 
„Were fraught with fruits of r 0 
But, 1 TY I was not out the preſence of Hin, 
with whom to hold communion, makes one comfortable 


in any place. I never repented of my undertaking ; but 
always felt a prevailing defire that it might be' wt the glory 


I would not chat faid much relative to my pad had 


I not ſuppoſed it might be ſomewhat intereſting to you; for BW mc 
I have almoſt forgotten all ſince my arrival, in the enjoy- mo 
ment of brethren SOM TY TR. 4 
13 7115 5 
After eh two hen at Diamond Harbour, ſeventj = 
miles from Calcutta, (the ſhip not being likely to get up wh 
in leſs than twelve or fourteen days, on account of the a] 
amazing rapidity and force of the current againſt her) | in 
took a ponſowah, and went up to town. Here ] ws 
(as it were ) ina new world. Many ſcores of people ſtool 
at the Old-Fort, where I went on ſhore; they immedi Li 


ately ſurrounded me, and in their language aſked me wht- 
ther 1 wanted a palanquin ; where I wanted to go, &c. till 
they almoſt ſtunned me, for I could not underſtand a word; 


311 


eee 


but at laſt I got a man who n ſome Engliſh, to 
conduct me to Mr. 1— 8. From him I went to Mr. 


3, to whom alſo I had a letter from dear Mr. Newton. 


Mr. UD bappened to be there. 1 was backwards and 
ſorwards at his house three or four days; and he procured 
me à Portugueſe ſervant, who could ſpeak: Engliſh, to 
attend me to-Mudnabatty. - Mr. U — behaved very kind 
to me. He appears one of the moſt amiable chriſtians T 
ever beheld ; and the more I hear of him from Mr. Carey 
the more I admire his character. % 


Alfter bi boat at Calcutta, and other neceſſary 
things, I left it on the 24th of September, and arrived at 
Mudnabatty on the loth of October. Brother Carey moſt 
kindly received me. When I entered, this Pundit ſtood 
by him teaching kim Shanſcrit. He labours in the tren- 
lation of the ſcriptures, and has nearly finiſhed the New 
Teſtament, being ſomewhere about the middle df Revela- 
tions. He keeps the grand end in view which firſt induced 


him to leave his country, and thoſe chriſtian friends he ſtill 


dearly loves. He reads a chapter, and expounds every 
morning to twelve or ſixteen perſons. On a Sabbath 
morning he alſo expounds, and preaches twice a day beſides 
to forty or fifty perſons ; after which he often goes into 
ſome village in the evening. In the interval of preaching 
to the natives, we have worſhip in Engliſh, He indeed 
appears to be the character he deſcribes in his publication, 
where he ſays, A chriſtian miniſter is a perſon, who, in 
a peculiar ſenſe, is not his own; he is the ſervant of God, 
and therefore ought to be wholly devoted to him.” * 


Brother Thomas is alſo lively in the work, and the 
Lord, we truſt, is bleſſing his labours : two or three natives 


See brother Carey's Enquiry. , 
8 2 


— — — — — 


— 


8 
FE » . "wad 2A N 5 
FR 6 —UU—U— — r 


1 * 
„ e 
— * . > fo e. 


ters are under great concern ar. their ſouls. Th f 


7 the concerns of the miſſion. 


| Carey's moonſhee, learning the Bengal language. I lang 


with it. I lent my volumes before I got to Myudnabatty, 


enlarge here. Give my kind love to all the miniſters | 


4 12 
ee. 


meet together every day for prayer, and Mr. Thony 
daily inſtructs them in the ſcriptures. He has a very 

congregation twice on a ſabbath-day ; he alſo preaches inthe 
adjacent villages two or three times. There is the utmol 
cordiality, friendſhip, and union bubſiſting between him u 
brether Carey. One ſpirit indeed _ to men both in 


After I had been four _ at Medi; brother 
Carey went with me to Moypauldiggy, where I ſpent mor 
than a fortnight in a very agreeable manner. Mr. Powell 
a relation of Mr. Thomas's, who has been baptiſed by 
brother Carey, is a very pious worthy young man; I lone 
him much, I returned home again (for ſo I call this place) 

a few days ago; and am now under the tuition of brothe: 


to be able to ſpeak, that I may preach among theſe poor gen. 
tiles the unſearchable riches of Chrift. _ 


| When, you write, communicate all the religious in. 
formation you can, and ſend the Evangelical Magazine to 
each of us: the good people at Malda are much pleaſel 


to a pious gentleman I met at Nuddea. 


5 Intending to ſend a letter to the Society, I ſhall not 


met at Kettering. May the Lord bleſs them all! 5 
| | : 2 | lip 
Your's, &c. 1 10 

J. F. w. 


not 
81 


= > © = I 


* by $ 4 * 803 
Vain: I 


* FOUNTAIN to. "the SOCTETT.., enden 


My tearly beloved brethren, ; 5 1 


fonly acquainted with many of you, yet being ſent hither 
at your expenſe, I conſider myſelf as your ſervant for Jeſus 
fake ; and to be under your direction, and the enjoyment 
of your approbation is what I ſhall ever delight in, next to 


the approbation of my conſcience, and the ſmiles of heaven. 


Therefore I ſhall always write to you with alen, and 
requeſt you will do the ſame * me. 7 


— 


Bleſſed be the Lo. ho firſt put it aa —_—_ knows 
to deviſe means for propagating the Goſpel among/t the 
Heathen. | | „ cg 


« Go on and proſper, for ſucceſs is ſure l“ 

| | NED ST EH v 
It was certainly an high honour. .conferred upon you 
by God, that you ſhould wipe away the reproach of your 
ungrateful country, who in return for all the rich exports 
of the Eaſt, had, for more than a century, imported nothing 
ſcarcely but vice and miſery, It was a cutting, but too 
true a reflection on the Engliſh, which I heard from the 
lips of one of the firſt Indians I ſaw, a man of no mean 


abilities, of the writer caſt; he came on board the ſhip 


while we lay at Diamond Harbour, the captain, as he 
walked the deck with him, uttered imprecations on the brah- 
mans, and called the people fools for taking any notice of 


na 1 8 
THOUGH I never had the happineſs of being per- 


: 
! 


. 314 
them and ſaid, We Par care for our prieſts in Englany; 
we live as we like.” « Aye,” replied the indian, « ye 
know the Engliſh care for nothing but money.” You, ny. 
brethren, let them ſee that you care for Jaws; for ſouls, the 
worth of which you calculate by the price paid for thei 
redemption, which was not fuch © corruptible thing 
as ſilver and gold, but the precious blood of Chriſt. 
Yes, you | let them ſee that you are ready to part with 
filver and old, in order to ſend to them the word of fil. 
vation. Your miffionaries, who were here before me, are 
like-minded-with ane hey, .: are mem fearing God, 
wr e 8 : n 


a tim 
fore, 
have 
lors, 


gard 
ſo t 
ſprir 


92 2 : 


. eder Thomas alight in \ doing 1050 to the bodie 
hs fouls of his fellow:men. His medical ſkill is a grat 
 blefling to this country: people come to him from thic- 
ty or forty miles round, ſo that there are almoſt always 

patients at his doors. He does all . 1 have mw ſome 
nw congreſs cures.. 


w \ + 


l 1 to bande 8 his very ſoul is abſorbed in the 
work of the miſſion. His dear friends in England had no 
ground for their fears that riches might alienate his heart 
from that work. He does not poſſeſs them : I am perſuad- 
ed there is not a man who has not learned to deny himſelf 
but would prefer his ſituation n at * Leiceſter to that in 
bee POTTY. — 52 
oy ein ſaid has male of the whilctinries; oh that! 
could fay as much of the ſucceſs of their miniſtry ; but, on 
my arrival, my mind was much grieved at thoſe things 
which ere now have cauſed you to mourn, viz, That 
ſome, who were once their hope, have gone again into the 
world : but no new thing hath happened to them in this 
reſpect. No, Jeſus himſelf had © many diſciples who, after 


315” 

i time, went back and walked*no'more with him g there- 

fore; brethren. be not diſheartened though your miſiottaries 

have hitherto been ſowing in tears; they, or their ſucceſ- 

Whey muſt en reap. with ie. n 4 oil 

| 4 gig DO ent e ei Ge T wrt gene 111 

0 13 The precious grain can n be lot, 23 dts | 
N Wm . i 5 5 


a tt a5 the ith: briageth Saks be N the. 
erden cauſeth the things that are ſown in it to ſpring forth; 
ſo the Lord God will cauſe W and Lo to 
ſpring forth before all the nations.“ | 50 


OY - 10 e 


2 « Then ſhall the trembling: mourner COMB 4H... | 
10 « And find his ſheaves, and bring them 3 3 

« The voice, long broke with ſighs, ſhall ings Fg 
" « Till heav” a. with We A . We 


' DODDRIDGE.. gy 


We aften refle&, and ſpeak one to another with i 
ſure of what great things have been already done ſince the 
at year 1784, when at the Nottingham Aſſociation, you firſt 
ad- propoſed and adopted Monthly Prayer Meetings for the re- 
| vival of religion. We rejoice that our independent, preſpy- 
in terian, and methodiſt brethren in England, Ireland, Scotland, 

and America, have adopted the ſame. I, for ſeveral years, 
beheld a pleaſing revival in England granted in anſwer to 
| prayer; and I bleſs God that before I left it, I beheld all 
denominations ſtirred up to promote the common. cauſe of 
"gs Chriſt, who is now bins © forth conquering. and to con- 


the UII, ,0 ; „„ 8 
his “He comes! He comes! The groans of Babylon, - 


ter | © The ſhouts of Zion, and the fervent prayers | 


316 


abr Of ſaints of every name in unity, War 
[x yt nt n nn 


| : conci 
ut 4 VFC with 
India the 98 hold of Satan ; yes, Indi, 2 TH ble 
impregnable fortreſs, muſt fall before the Univerſal Con. pray 
querer ; for all nations ſhall ſerve him. "Ye, who e. ura! 
teem it an honour to be fellow-workers with God, cone . plici 
over, come over and help us ! One great work is juſtif. then 
niſhing, viz. the tranſlation of the New Teſtament ino Wl san 
Bengalee. Piet i mee TT 417 ee «W 
N % Mp bt) F o'clo 
The firſt ſabbath I was here was a very affecting one, w_ 

a relation of which may not be unacceptable to you. But, « 
I muſt firſt tell you, that on the day after my arrival a e 
Mudnabatty, one of the idolatrous feaſts of the Hino (il 
was celebrated. They bad been drumming and dancing i 2 
before the idol three days and three nights ; but this even- 0 7 
ing it was to be drowned. Brother Carey went among ther 
them at the time; he ſpoke to them for a while, reſped- nd 
ing the folly and ſinfulneſs of their practice; but not being WW char. 
able to procure their attention, he addreſſed himſelf to the IE 
officiating brahman, and ſome of the wildeſt deyotees ; they ſpen 
were much aſhamed before him, and ſneaked away. Jul ing 
as he left them, a letter was brought from brother Thoma, gti 
ſaying, that he hoped a good work was begun at Moypaul- On 


diggy, and requeſted brother Carey to come over to ſee and 
ſpeak to the people. On the Saturday we went, with e- 
ger expectation. I was kindly received by brother Tho- 
as, as I had been before by brother Carey. On the Sabbath 

at ſun-riſe, worſhip began. N early an hundred people 
2585 aſſembled. After prayer, brother Thomas preached 
from Ezekiel xxxvi. 27. And I will put my Spirit within 
you. After which, brother Carey preached from A iv. 
12. Neither is there ſalvation in any other. Very great 


S F N 7 F 3» 


97 

ittention . was paid by all, After breakfaſt, three 8 

concerned about the ſalvation of their ſouls, came again, 
with whom brethren. Carey and Thomas ſpent a conſider- 
able time. They; appear hopeful characters. They, daily 
gray together. One of them (Yardee) is a man of good na- 
tural abilities, and. ſcems to poſleſs much. chriſtian ſim- 
plicity. T hey appeared much affected when I informed 
them (through brother Thomas) how the people of En- 
gland were praying for the ſalvation of their ſouls 
« What! (ſaid they) do they pray for us !” At twelve 
o'clock brother Carey preached in Engliſh from James i. 
verſe b. But let him 405 1 in Leith, nothing wavering. At half 
half paſt three o'clock the natives aſſembled more numerous 
than in the morning: brother Thomas preached from As 
xvii, 30. But now commandeth all men every where to re- 


bent; and brother Carey from Pſalm Ixxxix. verſe 15. 


Bleſſed is the people that know the joyful ſound : they ſhall walk, 
0 Lord, in the light of thy countenance. In the evening bro- 
ther Thomas preached in Engliſh from IJſaiab v. verſe 11. 


Ad thou ſhalt be like a watered garden. They both de- 


clared, I had ſeen more attention and ſeriousneſs, my firſt 
Sabbath, than they had ſeen all the three years they had 
ſpent in India. Brother Carey returned home the follow- 
ing evening, but I ſtayed near three weeks. The congre- 
gation increaſed the two following ſabbaths that 1 was there. 

On the ſecond ſabbath I preached to brother Thomas's fa- 
mily, and two Europeans who were there, from Pſalm xiv, 
rerle 7. Oh, that the ſalvation of Iſrael were come out of 


| Zion! Then the Lord bringeth back the captivity of his people, 


Jacob ſhall rejoice and Ijrael ſhall be glad. I hope, brethren, 
to tell you by the ſhips of next ſeaſon, that I am able to 


preach to the poor Hindoos. I am under the tuition of 
brother Carey's Pundit. 


Tt 


As 1 have given an account of my paſfage, t. 
brother Fuller, I ſhall not repeat it here, May God ab. 
dantly bleſs you all; and may great grace reſt upon all th 
Britiſh Churches! We all rejoice in the formation, and 
pray for the ſucceſs of the London Miffion Society. Favoy 
us with what they publiſh. Longing to hear from you, 

N 5 | I am „ : 


* 
” - 4 3 
Yours, &c, 

* . , 2 
re ; 3 
| | 5. . 
41 . s wy 8 1 * * 
* 1 : YN . 18 , x 1 
P 1 4 4 
5 NTA 

* 7 1 : o 0 

5 8 \ » 33,4 2 ; b 5 5 
— I E 2 - f j 


* 
R . 4 5 
4 4 "a 
+ $3: 5 « 5 4 * — 4 . & 5 8 9 
— ye. << - =- A 
y 8” 0. 1 7 ' 


Mr. CAREY to Mr. ELER. 


# ; 
* Eo 5 
. 


5 Mudnabatty, Nov. 16, 1796. 

© TI HAVE within a few days received your's of Der 

11. 1794, Aug. 28. 1795, October 23. 1795, and a pol. 

ſcript to a letter from our dear brother Pearce, dated 

April 13. 1796. From this irregularity in my receiving 

European letters, you will eafily account for apparent 
riegle& in anſwering them. 1 


vo) 


here are ſome Muſſulmans here who appear unde! 
concern about their ſouls. Going out one Monday morn- 
ing, a poor labouring man, named Sookmun, very eat- 
neſtly deſired to know what he muſt do to be ſaved? Two 
more made the ſame enquiry; adding, We heard you 
yeſterday, when having ſhewn the danger we were in of 
going to hell, you enquired, Mhitber will you go from bi 
ſpirit ? Whither will you flee from his preſence? We knen 
that we were unacquainted with the way of life, and ou 


Peers ® cannot. help us; for if the maſter be angry, what 
can the ſervant do? You: have told us of Jeſus Chriſt z but 
who is he? How ſhall we be ſaved ?”—I talked much with 
them, almoſt every day ; but two, whoſe names are Tup- 
hanee and JungJoo, ſoon ceaſed their enquiries. Sookmun 
ſill gives me hope, Rough it is three months ſince the 


enquiry began | 


„ 8 EST „ 


1 wrote. an ——_ of this immediately to brather 
Thomas, who: informed me, in return, that ſome were alſo 
enquiring at Meypayl. When brother F ountain arrived, 
| went over to Jd4oypaul wah him, and am ſure, he ſaw: 
more reaſon for encouragement the firſt Lord's-day, than 
we had ſeen.in the three years we had been in India. Three 
perſons there, Vardee, Doorgotteea, and another, are in a 
very hopeful way indeed; they are all labourers, and. 
Muſſulmans. There was another Muſſulman, and a blind 
brabmin ; but theſe do not appear to me fo promiſing as 
the others. Yardee is a man of good natural abilities, has 
[a great aptneſs in conyeying his ideas, and is a bleſſing to 
the reſt ; the other two do not appear equal to him in na- 
tural . but the work appears to be ſubſtantial. I was 
in hope of being able to ſend you an account of their bap- 
tiſm, and union with us in church fellowſhip'; but that 
has not yet taken place. I however expect it ſoon. There 
is a ſtir in the country all around Aapaul, and many come 
to hear the word I ſuppoſe near an hundred: Here it is 
not ſo, and poor Sookmun ſtands alone. 


Brother Fountain is ſafely arrived, and gives us plea- | 


ol 

of * Canonized ſaints 1 fince rao 
his 

W 'L-£ 3: 


320 


ee 


ure; but we are in immediate want of more -miſfonaria 
and 1 intreat the Society to FIERS them, e 


F 


4 have, through the good hand of my God upon me, noy 
nearly tranſlated all the New Teſtament: 1 have begun the 
ſeventh chapter of the Revelations, and all the former | 
part is tranſlated, except the Acts of the Apoſtles. I har lit 


a Pundit, who has with me examined and corrected all the in 
Epiſtles to the ſecond of Peter: we go through a chapter le 
every day: the natives Who can read and write, underſtani 4 
it perfectly; and, as it is corrected by a learned native, the a 


ſtyle and ſyntax cannot be deſpicable. I intend, however, th 
to go through it again, and as critically as 1 can, compar 

it with the Greek Teſtament. I expect the New Teſs | 
ment will be complete before you receive this, except 2 Pl 
very few words which may want altering on a third and 5 
fourth reviſal ; I now wiſh the printing to be thought of, 
It will be at leaſt two years from this time, before commu. 
nications reſpecting printing will arrive from England; by 


0, 
which time every correction may certainly be made. We 
were in hopes of printing it at our own expence, but in 
that we are diſappointed. Were it printed here, 10,000 4 


copies would coſt at the neareſt calculation 43, 7 50 rupes 
or 4, 400l. ſterling—an enormous ſum! But it may be 
done much cheaper, by ſending out a printing preſs with 
types, &c. and if a ſerious printer could be found, who 
was willing to engage in the miſſion, he would be a gret 
blefling to us in ſuperintending the work; for the natives 
would do the laborious part. 


Brother Fountain on his arrival took me quite by ſur 
priſe ; he appears to be a very promiſing perſon ; he i 
learning under my pundit. On an aconomical plan, 


. 
SSH 


which I have recommendnd to him, he may do with 
about thirty, rupees per month. I wiſh it were in my pow- 
er to maintain him, without any farther expence to the So- 
ciety, but that I cannot do 


The ſum given to him when he left England“ is too 
little pocket money for an Indian voyage. If the ſhip put 
in any where, the miſſionaries will be diſtreſſed, as the 
length of their ſtay at any place depends entirely on winds, 
weather, & c. and at all places where the ſhips put in, 
accommodations are very exorbitant; ; beſides travelling i in 


this country is very expenſive, 


1 rejoice to hear of fuch a ſpirit of activity and piety 
prevailing in England. Surely God is on his way, and 
great things are on the eve of accompliſhment | 


I bleſs God for your piece on Socinianiſm. "p rejoice 
in its extenſive dara 2 and truſt it will de productive 
of good. in 1 88 e + 


My family are well. I. have loſt one fon, and had 


another born ſince 1 have been here. 


F 


A ſerious man, who underſtands the manufacture of 
glazed earthen ware, would be very uſeful in this country. 
My warmeſt chriſtian love to all the miniſters, 


| Yours, &c. 


W. C. 


Thirty pounds. 


E A ²˙ ˙wꝛwA—J2 Ä RE. tO 


FE I En bo EC Ee ea WIS an res te Ee 


3 


. EE 


i- 
, : 
i 
Ti 5 
4 A * 
1 F «1 
Cl 
s 
* x 
9 
* 75 
* 
Lge 
4 Fs. 
7 * 
5 7 J 
. 55 1 
* » 
OL 
bn. 
Wo 
* 
3 
; 4d way 
7 5 
475 
„ 
FT. 
0, 
4H 
4 N ry 3 
. Fad 
1 
JB * 
3 
S *. 
1 
[4 
_ AY 
; 1 
9 * K: 
1 
L e 2 
3 U 
4 1 2 } 
: 2 N 
i % 4 f 
| * 
1 
: "= 
: YH 
: - N 
: ” 14 
. F424 
: 3 
5 i ©, 2 
o 3 
1 
N 31 
N 
1 - 
F 3% >, 
[ L 
| | F 
: 1 & 
4 
108 
„ 
1 M6 5. 
b | 4 Ft 


3 
18 


* 


= on ee Pom 
a> 
ae" ao > _— BY 7 
£ ling... 1 
» SY SS 


—— — 2 — — — — cans — —— — — — — — 
— r _— — — —  — — — 
b > 2 ' — — L 8 — - > —"4>x — 
2 ES — —— . — — — 
nt 1 LY 2 . a 2 rg | 
F — on” > ge WY, . „ „ % \ . 
r „ +0 : — AETYY, + reg = => 
- +5: hy + $5 by K N 8 8 : 
a * od . * 


for four thouſand years, beheld the foe of God and man 


. 9 ** * ; FE of #4 $ 4 T% hk | N : R 
: 84 5 2 . # 5 „ : 8 
Vr. FOUNTAIN te a FRIEND at Oakham, 

IM 25d VU 344% bad? T3482 if EEO 


| et Nov. 17, 1796, 1 

op, my dear brother! You cannot conceive what ta 

4 e here preſents itſelf to view. Here one be. on 
holds' the high places of idolatry under every green pr 
tree, where deluded millions ſacrifice to devils. No ur 
one who was never out of England, where chriſtianity gr 
has flouriſhed for ages, can have any thing like an ri 
adequate idea of that apoſtolic declaration, The what ye 
world lieth i in a 5 but here we ſeem to ſee it Veri w 
fed. 4 
| * 

| Theſc things, though they excite our grief, do not V 

4 us to deſpair. No, the caſe is not deſperate ; better a 


proſpects will ſhortly ſucceed. Thus saith the Lord, The 
feed of the woman ſhall bruiſe the ſerpent's head; and in the ful- 
neſs of time behold him appear for that very purpoſe, His 
birth is proclaimed as an event which /hall cauſe joy To 
ALL PEOPLE. Angels, burning with divine love, had, 


ſpreading terrors, deſolation, and death throughout theſe 
terreſtrial abodes ; they beheld it with regret and pity: 
but now the eternal counſels of heaven, into which they 
had long and earneſtly deſired to look, are all revealed to 
their benevolent minds: the plan of ſovereign grace—of 
human ſalvation, is exhibited: they give vent to their 
feelings in ſtrains till then unheard—* Glory to God in 
the higheſt—on earth peace, good-will towards man!” 


« This is the Saviour long foretold 
« To uſher in the age of gold, 


with thoſe we are taught to expect— 


ve. 
4 To make the reign of ſorrow ceafe, 
« © And bind the Jarring world in peace.” | 


Oh thiok how many and great have been abe blenings 
of his reign already ! How many millions of the captives 
of Satan have already been reſcued from his accurſed ty- 
fanny, to the enjoyment of facred liberty! What millions 
once in darkneſs, have been made light in the Lord! What 
principalities and powers hath IAM ANUEIL already tri- 
umphed over, making a ſhew of them openly ! What 
great things have been done, i in the preſent century, in va- 
nous parts of the world !” But eſpecially ſince about the 
year 1744, hath” the kingdom of our Lord been coming 
with power. See how his conqueſts have ſpread on the 
great American continent; what wonders have been 
wrought amongſt the poor Indians in that quarter of the 
world | How ſudden the tranſition of many of them, from 


a ſtate of ſavage barbarity to peaceful aud happy ſociety, 
embracing each other in the arms of fraternal love. Great 


things have been done in the Weſt Indies, and various parts 
of Europe. What unexampled revivals in England, Scot- 
land, and Wales! But theſe things, though great, very 


great in themſelves conſidered, are ſmall when, contraſted 


« All the promiſes do travail 
With a glorious day of grace.“ 


Long have the ſaints been nniticg their prayers fox 
the ſpread of the goſpel ; and now they are united in their 
endeavours to accompliſh the deſired end. The Lord hath 
heard the prayers of the deſtitute ; he will now build up 
Zion, he will appear in his glory. Behold the heralds 
of ſalvation flying through the world, and ſaying to the 
nations enveloped in darkneſs, Behold your God! 


WW — —— 3 be W ” 
PTR — — * 5 — * * 2 — — = ye * os — * 
* a * * * 4+.4 * 
© | n . ? * Tr r 
— N 8 4 = — o — 
. ho — mY _—_ — * 3 — 2 —— w — — x —ͤ—e D' — - = — = of 
- — - m_ — — nts ye = — — * 1 — * my TE e . — (oh ir. x = I 8 — 5 1 3 4 * i» * 7 J ” 
* N = —_—_— r thn. ca - 4 , = 2 ; « *% - : — - EY - - mw 5 — - 4 — 2 — 
5 = SY JS — T5 \=—_ £4 eine — — ſp , 2 + L E. 4 * r „ 8 2 32 . 5 1 En WB - * — 
2 — Y 2 : ad ke. 1 8 een — r R a n —— n „ OW OE. fe ers b = — 1 Nn 
o I 1 * * XL N 22 7 fs == I 8 1 _ 42S ht 2 _ Sx. 3 LS. — N n Z — Ts - A 3 = — bas - . 2 4 LARS _ = * 3 1 I. - 
_ — ET: x . 1 ob. kh 1 5 2 — — = . 2 P ne NE” "TIE 7 * * — 4 1 9 5 _ ky 4 bs 28 a = RAE 2 = 5 
I © 35 3h —— - 2 — * n = * n oi . > F — 4 ct EN J 2 - þ b Sx" * 
* „ e ä — vi" — di) r 3 e F e 
bh —— FT - 72 F4 p _- "1 8 * 8 2 8 Fi a T 2 — 
: be 2 . 3 Ra * 82.5 * 2 4 af T 2 — 2 1 3 _ 7 — 
« a 2485-7 4 . 5 "IT 2 ; 2 . r 2 . g - <a „ aflie LS 
Sl = —_ 2 - 7... "I l - =— a i : _— x vx n RN : # 3 | "IJ AS 
- ; 2 = 2 2 k 8 hat | * — 1 F 
q * 9 I: 33 * — 7. Srv =, a — £ 
2 = our 8 * wad oP hae; 
„„ HEE hw es f * — » 
7 a . - COTS TOW” 7 - — 


. 
— —— 
— — —_— —— —— 
be 


324 
e 


* 


Does detder R- i what is. g i Tada? 1 
anſ wer, brethren Carey and Thomas are affiduous in preach. 
ing the goſpel of the grace of God ; and though ſome of 
the perſons! who once received the word with joy, and en. 
dured for a while, have. withered away, we are not with. 
out hopes that it has taken root in a fe w honeſt and good 
hearts.,, Indeed, it appeats in them to- bring forth fruit; 
but if things were a thouſand times darker than they ar, 
there. would be no room for diſcouragement. They who 
abound in the work of the Lord, ſhall not, labour i in vain, 
One great work is already Juſt accompliſhing, VIZ. the 
' tranſlation af the New. Teſtament; and though. the expence 
of printing.it will be very great, yet all the, ſilver and gold 
in the world is che Lord's, and inſtances have not been 
wanting to ſhew that it is all at his command. Two 0. 
three miſſionaries, in a nation like this, a do but Wet 
2 requeſt is made for more. 


. 43 

* * 
. 7 s . F / 

£ bs ? * 3 14 i 4 of + #4 1 ? 1 


If , *s 


& 


＋ ſhall ſend you one curioſity from India, i. e. the 
tune tö which the natives ſing the Bengalee bymn, the 
tranſlation of which you have at the end of Periodical 
Accounts, No. i., and in Dr. Rippon's Baptiſt Regiſter, p. 

370, vol. i. Brother Carey's pundit (under whoſe tuition 
I am) has a very muſical voice, and fine ear: he leads the 
finging every ſabbath-day in time of Bengal worſhip. The 
tune, though it appeared ſtrange to me at firſt, being ſo 
unlike any Engliſh air, and ſung to words unintellig- 
ble to me, yet was very pleaſant after hearing it two 
or three times in worſhip. 1 got the pundit to fing it 
over to me, and ſo wrote it out. Every ſound is right. 
here are no Engliſh words that will go to it; I wil 
there were. It is the joint wiſh of myſelf and brother 


2 
k 
8 
e 
f 
\ 
I 
{ 


— — 9 — 


the 

the 
lical 
5 p. 
ition 
5 the 
The 
g ſo 
lig. 
two 
g it 
ioht, 
wiſh 
ther 


325 

— 
Carey, chat you a put a counter and baſs to it, and 
ſend a copy over the firſt time you write. As it is the 
ſirſt Indian tune that perhaps was ever wrote out, we re- 
queſt that you will not alter a note, Brethren Carey 


8 
t 


and Thomas have both a knowledge of muſic, ſo that we 


often entertain ourſelves with a tune, and e . Galen; on 
EP vom os, | | 


: 
* , 0 
1 ” - % MX 6 E 
- 


My. CAREY to Mr. PEARCE. © x 
CER 


- Mudnabatty, Nov. 19, 1796, | 


I HAVE written to ſome of my correſpondents. an 
account of poor Ram Boſhoo's awful fall: he is gone IL 
know not whither, and it appeared as if all was ſunk and 
gone, I however continued my preaching. as uſual, and 
every day engaged in an expoſition on the ſcriptures (a very 
free one you may ſuppoſe,) by way of morning exerciſe, 
with all the ſervants, and as many others as would attend. 
| generally ſet forth Jeſus as the Saviour, and earneſtly be- 
ſeech ſinners to believe on him, let the immediate ſubject 
be what it may. After the Moonſhee's fall, my School 


fell alſo, as I found my income could not poſſibly ſupport 


it, and the ſchoolmaſter going with the Moonſhee, it was 
broken up; nor is yet reſumed, though I much deſire it. 


In this ſituation I was for ſome time, much dejected: 
but one Lord's-day, although I preached in a very low, 


diſtreſſed frame of heart, I was very earneſt with poor ſouls. 


U u 


» 
o 
* 
- 
1 
P n 
* 
4 * 
8 o 
N aka Us 2. 4 
4 2 7 = K 2 
* i I” — . 2 — 
1 * r —— : — - Ra 275 
4 = > - 9h rs y 9 £ 2 3 
5 — 2 . HA IE hap = Dogan erm nrertee ney) OE 2 * . . 

— " - => — — 7 - — > cnn ons * _ — 6 77 * 4 2 * 2 * ; * E th = 

— — — * * . \ 1 4 — \ + Wt Fw. 3 btn : * * 4 \ 

— 2 22 22 qo q 1 e vets = l 3 F< 3 , = — 1 | —— 2 1 ; - 

Wh. 8 ET Ns 7 TIS STE) I ILL - 3 * 4 PE fx 

. „ Ii 55 „„ mt, * 3 ID > SEES OE.” | . 
* be. wat FR ny Kr VF; „rr 7 Y KD -.. a * — — - 

#7 5 * cam 5 [EY f * * L 2 9 E — _— , " o B =p "Py. 

* « 9 4 = r * " 8 4 G = * 
5 3 % 4x R 7 P Fe. da BY. ES — ' FS 
. * _ - * RP » Fa : —_— __ 8 i : 
ad n 5 ole Bog hy 9 e ASS | . S. 
0 - þ 1 P | = 
„ a i > dS. iS j * A 2 r = 5 * 


Lf on 
== —_— 
(2 — — 
» , 
ry 5 
—— ot 
A > \ 


> VER, 


i. 
- [f weoooe Sy 
The text I have forgot; but I now remember that I ug 
the words of the Pſalmiſt with much affection: Jhithy 


all I flee from thy preſence! | had almoſt loſt the tecol. 


lection of this circumſtance the next morning; but walk- 
ing out on the monday, three muſſulmans came, and with 


apparent agitation aſked me, Sir, what muſt we do to be 
” faved? Keman par hoibo? How ſhall we get over?” I talked 


much with them, and hoped God was beginning a work, 
In a ſhort time however, two of them eeaſed their enqui. 
ries: but the other (Sookmun) is ftill in a hopeful ſtate. 
He has been converſing with me this morning with encreaſ. 


ing earneſtneſs, and I have reaſon to believe © he prayeth.” 


About the ſame time, five or ſix begun to enqire at Moypau!; 
and brother Thomas having Tepeatedly requeſted me to 
come over and converſe with them, when brother Four- 

tain arrived, we went together; and truly I muſt fay I ws 


8 $reatly affected with them. Three in particular gave me 


much pleaſure; and one of them, Yardee, addrefled me to 
this effect: Sir, formerly I had not the ſmalleſt ſenſe of 


either good or evil: I neither feared nor cared ; but having 


heard the goſpel I fear much, for I have been a very great 
finner : I have been guilty of theft, of luſt, and of lying; 
and I find that my mind has been ſet on theſe things: but 
now I will feek after the en of Chrift, 2 


At another time, ſpeaking of FO nbelignck of the 
people of the country, he gave the following instance of 
it. His wife had juſt lain in, had been exceedingly ill 
and was feveriſh afterwards : one day being alone, and 
feeling. cold, ſhe requeſted a neighbor to bring her a bit 
of fire: the other refused, ſaying, © I bring you fire! No, 
not 11“ And ſhe was obliged to give a few gundas of 
cowries to a perſon who was going by, to bring her a little 
fire. Yardee, after relating this in my hearing, obſerved, 


CR TOI naps Nees * * os. PRO as tes A A "of „ 9 
L y G re 9 
1 1 % * CS N 
- 1 8 ho * * 
* I * 

* « k 8 
5 4 — 
” * - 

8 * 4 * 

* 
* 


227 


e 


« This Suter people are very bad people; but I was 1 | 
the ſame; my heart was as hard as a ſt one; but now I pity 
the miſeries'of others.” He is talking to all about the way 
of life, and has been the means of a conſiderable ſtir all 
about MAoypaul; ſo that many ſcores come to hear the 

word. He is a man of a ſweet. natural temper, good 
abilities, a readineſs to diſcourſe with others, and a zeal 
for Chriſt he, and I hope ſome others, will be baptized 
ſoon. | 12 


I I afked him what he would think, if Chriſt command- 
ed him to do any thing that would expoſe him to deriſion? 
He replied, © I will do any thing for Chriſt.” Theſe en- 
quirers have alſo begun to taſte of oppoſſticur for the ſake 
of Chriſt; but they act * „ 


Mobund Chund continues to profeſs his deſire after 
better things, and in terms that I hope beſpeak an enlight- 
ened mind. I pity his condition, as he cannot work, be- 
ing a very delicate man, and unuſed to every kind of em- 
ploy except heatheniſh begging, which is very honourable 
kerez but this does not fit eaſy on his conſcience now. 


| November 21. 


Yeſterday I preached twice to the natives; the firſt 
ſermon from 2 Cor. v. 20: Now then we are ambaſſadors, 
Ke. and the laſt from Matt. vi. 33: Seek ye firs the 
ktingdim of God, &c. I felt my heart drawn out in much 
affection towards them, though I had but few hearers ; but 
as the cool weather is commencing, Iam going out to all 
the villages in my circuit, which are about two hundred. 


went laſt monday evening to one village, and had a 
tolerable congregation. 


Uu2 


3 15 330 „ 

a | S600. | 
e 1 wa not written in the moſt encouray 

jog manner reſpecting my own labours; yet, do not ſup. 
poſe that I am weary of my work. No, 1 would not for 
all the fineſt ſtations in England put together, abandon the 
Miſſion to the heathen. I have much within and much 
without to lament, but I am in my element—nay, I an 
but, as it were, beginning to enjoy the pleaſure of comny. 


nicating my heart to theſe people of ſo very ſtrange ſpeech, 


I begin to feel a ſacred and increafing pleaſure in the con. 
templation of the certain downfall-of the kingdom of dark. 
neſs in this long, long benighted region. The work to 
which God has ſet his hand will infallibly proſper. Chrif 
has begun to bombard this ſtrong and ancient fortreſs, and 
will aſſuredly carry it. It is not the uſual way of God to 
deſert what he has begun in the public work of grace, any 
more than in his ſecret work in the ſouls of individual 
believers ; and eſpecially in ſuch a time as this, when every 
thing portends the downfall, the ſpeedy downfall of all 
that oppoſes the dear Redeemer's reign, 


The New Teſtament is nearly tranſlated, Now the 
publiſhing of it is a very great object, and I greatly deſire 
that ſomething may be done to that purpoſe before I die, 
left it be mangled or perhaps loſt ; for it does not appear 
ſo great an object to every one as to me. 


The ſending out more miſſionaries alſo appears to me 
of ſo much importance, that I dread the thoughts of its be- 
ing neglected much longer. We are too few, and though 
I have written already to brother F. on that head; jet 
I muſt again intreat that this very important thing may 
not be put off. Let us perſevere—we will perſevere, ard 
God may raiſe up miniſters and miſſionaries among us 
among the natives, and carry his victorious arms far beyond 


5 e | 329 " 
OF eee W > 
our moſt ſanguine hopes. I ſuppoſe a dozen or a ſcore of 
preaching miſſionaries might, when acquainted with the 


for language, make the circuit of all Hindooſtan, once if not 
the twice a year. Pray ſend more; one, or two, or three in a 
uch year as you can; but let _ is men of a Ma at 


ſpirit. 
Tons = 
Mr. CAREY to Mr. SUTCLIFE. © 


a Nov. 16, 1796. 


dual 
very I AM, bleſſed be God, in good health: I have had 
f all a very painful abſceſs in the ſide of my throat, for which 


I was oblidged to undergo- a * operation; but it 
is now well, 


icons, and the ſermons preached before the Miſſionary So- 
ciety ; alſo Mr. Horne's Letters on Miſſions, and am very 
much obliged indeed by the receipt of them. The Polyglott 
Bible never arrived, and J fear is loſt. Any books on 
theology will be very acceptable : politics occupy very 
| little of our attention ; yet it is defirable to know how the 
world goes; we ſhall therefore be glad of the Annual 
Regiſter. 


et i 
may | Yeſterday I went out to preach to the inhabitants of a 
and neighbouring village, and found conſiderable pleaſure in 


addrefling them from 1 John iii. 8: For this purpoſe, &c, 
The people behave well, but conſtantly make this very 


I have received Parkhurſt's Greek and Hebrew Lex- 


824 


underſtand ?” Nay, they will often ſay, We are not men, 


f 


ployment? They anſwered, “ For our bellies.” I aid, 


- Sliſh farmer; but he found that our farmers were not di- 


_ goſpel, or their total neglect of every thing religious. l 
is alſo very common for them to ſay, © We have no God 


1 5 4 330 
* 17 e. 
os Win „Sir, we hear what you fo, 
but nothing ſtays in our minds.? And their common ex. 
cuſe is, We are poor ignorant creatures, what can ye 


we cannot poſſibly know any thing; and brother Thon I ihc 
was one day under the neceſſity of proving. his auditors ty 
be human; for they aſſerted that they were jackalls, aud 


not men! Theſe very degrading aſſertions reſpecting then. 


ſelves are very common, though certainly uſed with 10 
other deſign than to excuſe their indolence in not examin. 
ing the difference between their own ſuperſtition and the 


but our bellies.” One day ſome dancing brahmans came 
to me; and I aſked them, why they purſued fo vile an em. 


hog tears up your fields for his belly; a jackall deſtroys 


your kids and lambs for his belly; and thieves rob only for Wi © 
their belly: you are therefore on an equality with them, y 


They aſſented; nor was any thing that I could ſay ſuffici 
ent to convince them that any thing elſe was neceſſary, 


My God can break the carnal heart. 


9 

Brother Fountain bad read in my letters about . 
in our neighbourhood, and expected to be accommodated 
with a baſon of milk in a farmer's chimney corner, and ſuch 
hoſpitality as may be experienced in the houſe of an En- 


tinguiſhable from other people, and that houſes in Bengal 
have no chimnies; that a farmer's whole ſtock is a cow ot 
two, and three or four half-ſtarved bullocks, and a few pi- 
geons; (for a Hindoo will not touch a fowl, nor either 
Muſſulman or Hindoo a hog, except the loweſt caſt of all;) 
a goat or two, tied on a bare highway, are now and then 
ſeen, but no ſheep in a whole pariſh, Thus was he diſap- 


331 i 
: 7 
vinted; he is however not ſhaken in mind and I doubt 9 
not will be a bleffing to us. | * ., = 


* * ih 
I) 

„ — 8 
= ONT 


Bleſſed, bleſſed be God for all that is 1 doing to promote 
the cauſe of Chriſt ! -Surely much is to be expected, 


' Yours, Ke. 
W. C. | 
Mr. CAREY to Mr. B, London. 
. Nov. 23, 1796. 


YOUR very affect i onate letters l cor- 1 
dials to my ſoul. Vour counſels, your prayers, and good = 
wiſhes excite my gratitude ; may they be long continued |! BY 
You have heard of Boſhoo's awful fall, and his ſeparation 
from us ; for though, perbaps, out of fifty ſervants, forty- 
nine will be found guilty of the ſame crime, (adultery) yet 
it was neceſſary to bear a more public teſtimony againſt 
his, as his profeſſion of the Goſpel was ſo well known. 
That was a gloomy time; but ſince then, I truſt, God has 
appeared in the real converſion of four muſfulmans ; one here, 
and three under brother Thomas. In what it may iſſue, 
the Lord only can foreſee ; but at preſent I diſcover in it 
what I ſhould conclude to be a genuine work of grace in 
England, till I ſaw further reaſon to doubt of it. 


| preach in neighbouring villages three evenings in the 
week, and might much more; but then the tranſlation 
mult be ſtopped. I therefore endeavour ſo to order matters 
2s to carry on both. , 


November 24. 


Yeſterday I was much —— by converſy, 
tion with Sookmun; he waited till he perceived that || 
was alone, and then came into my room, and made a nuy- 
ber of very pertinent enquiries, with unuſual ſpirit a 
earneſtneſs. He expreſſed a deep ſenſe of his being a lf 
ſinner before God. I aſked, if he had any of theſe though 
formerly ? He anſwered, © No; formerly I knew nothing, 
nor feared any of theſe things; but now all my concern j 
how I ſhall be delivered from wrath, Since I have heal 
the goſpel I have become very thoughtful about this matte, 
and many others.“ He then enquired,** Who is Jeſus Chrif; 
Is he God's friend, or what is he? * I replied, he is Go 
himſelf ; yet God in human form, in human nature; and 
he ſo loved ſinners as to die for their ſalvation, of his om 
free will. | 


He then aſked, if we had not ſome ceremony to pal 
through, in order to our being admitted to the rank of Er 
gliſhmen, like their circumciſion, and the Hindoo ceremony 
of boring the ear, and the brahmans taking the poitoo, r 
thread worm about their neck as their diſtinguiſhing mark, 
I told him we had not. Then ſays he, what was it you it- 
tended when you dipped Mr. Powell in the water? (meas 
ing his baptiſm) I told him that when any one made a pub- 
lic profeſſion of the goſpel of our Lord Jeſus Chriſt ; then, 
thoſe who were his diſciples heard that profeſſion of theil 
faith; and if it were approved, in order to his being recey- 
ed into chriſtian communion, it was expreſſly commandei 
by Chriſt thus to immerſe him in water, in the Redeemets 


* Alluling to their opinion of Mahomet's being the friend of God, 


uwe. A great number of queſtions, on various ſubjects, 
were propoſed: among other things we touched on the 
probable trouble that muſt be expected by thoſe who ſhould 
* publicly renounce Mahomedaniſm, or Heatheniſm. 
He obſerved,” *© Theſe may be great, but muſt be ſhort, and 
are much eaſier to endure than Hell. 0 NE Rene ny 
awakened, | | 


Yours the, 


27 2 
- ! Nieten 
ws 1 * 1 >> * > 5 A * 


Mr. CAREY to Dr. RY LAND. 


| | $64 Ih W 8 by per 
1 AM very much obliged by the friendly communi - 
cations you have made to me, and feel greatly intereſted in 
them, Nothing reſpecting the churches in England can be 
unintereſting to me. h , 


The ſhortneſs of my letters muſt be attributed to the 
| number of my correſpondents, and to the ſameneſs of occur- 
| Tences among us. The natives have ſo little curioſity that 
our conferences with them cannot have much . or 
be very intereſting. 


Divine goodneſs has indeed appeared for us; a hope- 
ful awakening took place here, and at Moypaul, about the 
ſame time. Here. three began to enquire after the way of 
ſalvation, but two of them turned back; the- other, however, 
appears to be concerned in a more lively manner than at 
firſt. Five or ſix appeared under concern at oypaul, three 
of whom hold on well, and give us much pleaſure; they 
have a daily meeting for prayer with one another; and 
their converſation is very pleaſing, and as becomes the 

You. HII. | 


5 334 
gbſpel. One Gems to | poſſeſs. good natural abilities; v: 
are ready to hope he may become a ee Tae we 
RT to read Ad Fries | U ohety 


FF Tf 3 N 
"och is ; very pleaſant to me to hone: the. e 1 
Fe country ſing, „O, who can deliver, except the Lot 
Jeſus Chriſt ?? &c, which is now become very common, 


\ The tranſlation of the ſcriptures takes up much of 
my time; writing in a character learned after childhood, i 
not ſo pleaſant as uſing an indigenal character, and is more 
lowly performed. Some have wondered why we tranſ. 
lated Leviticus; and had we the means of publiſhing 
any part ſpeedily, there would be cauſe for wonder; but it 
muſt be obſerved, that what is tranſlated is no further 
known to the natives, than as read by me; one ſolitary 
copy being all that is yet written out: another copy is 
writing, but, except to guard againſt any deſtructive event, 
I would not wiſh to multiply . leſt 2 ſhould be 
imperfect. 


More miffionaries I think abſolutely neceſſary to the 
ſnpport of the intereſt. Should any natives join us, they 
would become outcaſt immediately, and muſt be, conle | 
quently, ſupported by us. The miſſionaries on the coalt 
are to this day obliged to provide for thoſe who join them, 


as I learnt from a letter ſent to brother T homas by a ſon ol 
one of the miſſionaries. - 


Some things relative to the country may 1 not be un. 
acceptable to you. 


J obſerved in a er letter, that the beaſts have been 
in general deſcribed, but that the undeſcribed birds were 
ſurprilingly numerous; and in fact new ſpecies are ſtil 


228 2 


— . = 


5 © 335. 


25000 


e coming under my notice. We have ſparrows 
and water-wagtails, one-ſpecies of crow, ducks, geeſe, and 
common fowls ; / pigeons, teal, ortolans, plovers, ſnipes 
like thoſe in Europe; but others, entirely unlike Eur&pean 
birds, would fill a volume. Inſects are very numerous. 
] have ſeen about twelve ſorts of grylli, or graſshoppers 
and erickets. Ants are the moſt omni vorous of all inſects; 
we have eight or ten ſorts very numerous. The termes, or 
white ants deſtroy every thing on which they faiten; they 
will eat through an oak cheſt in a day or two, and de- 
vour all its contents. Butterflies are not fo numerous as in 
Eagland, but I think all different, Common flies, and 

muſquitoes (or gnats) are abundant, and the latter ſo tor- 
menting as to make one conclude that if the flies in Egypt 
were muſquitoes, the plague muſt be almoſt inſupportable. 
Here are beetles of many ſpecies. Scorpions of two ſorts» 
the ting of the ſmalleſt not mortal. Land crabs in abun- 
dance, and an amazing number of other kinds of inſects. 
Fiſh is very plentiful, and the principal animal food of the 
inhabitants. I find fewer varieties of vegetables than 1 
could have conceived in ſo large a country. Edible vege- 
tables are ſcarce, and fruit far from plentiful. You will 
perhaps wonder at dur eating many things here, which 
no one eats in Englaad: as arum®, three or four ſorts, 
and poppy leaves (papaver ſomniferum. f) We allo cut up 
mallows by the buſhes for our food. f Amaranths, of 
three ſorts, we alſo eat, belides caplicums, pompions. 


®* Cuckow-pint, of which ten ſpecies are uſed for food in hot countries. 


Common Garden Poppey, which is cultivated in the Eaſt Indies for the 


ſake of the milky jyice contained in the poke which, when inſpiſſated, 
forms an opiate, 


t Job xxx. 4. 
1 


* 
„ L 7 
) 336 
y = 3 
G4 


woSpe 

gourds, calahaſbes and, ache egg. plant fruit; yet we hav 

no hardſhips in theſe reſpects. Rice is the ſtaple article of 

food, and ſupport of the inhabitants. At à future time I 
may ſend you ſome account of the ways, cuſtoms, and 

religious opinions of the natives: perhaps 1 may tranſmit 


ſome extracts tranſlated from the ſhaſters./ The Bhagya | 


F 'Gheet, Ramayan, and lala 4 Meow, are _ 
NES into a 3 ; 


5 


My love to the ſtudents. God miſs * up for 


great bleſſings. Great things are certainly at hand. 
Brother Fountain is a great comfort to me. My love 


to any at Briſtol who aſk after me. I thank you tor 
your little book, the Brief Directory for Miniſters 


and the —— amn for wy uſe of miſſionaries 


The names of the Beda's, | in Periodical 3 
p. 129, as taken from Dow's Hiſtory of Hindoſtan, are 


very erroneous; their real names are Reek, Jozoo, dam, 
Athorpo ; and ſome other words in my letters have been 


printed wrong, having been altered on the authority of 
writers 'who Pile om GOOG: to the ns Meat of 
the coaſt, e 15 ö 


| Tas Ute. > 
>" 75: - 
Mr. CAREY fo Mr. MORRIS. 


Mudnabatty, Nov. 29, „ 1796. 

HERE I am till, through the very abundant good- 

neſs of that God, who hath led me and ſupplied me all my 
days till now, and bleſſed be his name though I am, per- 
haps, the moſt phlegmatic, cold, ſupine creature that 


ever paſſeſſed the grace of our Lord Jeſus Chriſt, yet IL am 
daily, employed in doing a little 11 0 Who: 1 e | 
and gave welt. ape... | 


Four welcome detour, of Subs 23 1796, 4 | 
near three months before Mr. Fountain: I had according- 
ly given him up; but one day, as I Was ſitting at my deſk, 
which is on a ground floor, and was ſearching into vener- 
able Shanſcrit antiquity, in bolted A, man, attended by a 
neighbour'of mine, whom he had picked up about twelve 
miles diſtance and, before I could make, any enquires, I 
found it was a brother miſſionary |! This ſpoiled all my 
Sdanſcrit for that day; but it was a pleaſing eircumſtance 
indeed: he has begun the language; has alſo preached 
once or twice in e 3 lives with me, ROI. to ae 
him ay Aab 


The people in Ae are ahove the 825 of 3 
perhaps rather under than over that ſtandard. Their co- 
Jours are various; moſt of thoſe who are expoſed to the ſun 
and hard labour are very black; and others who are not fo, 
and whoſe caſt has for many ages kept them from ſervile 
employment, are nearly as white as Europeans, and if 
dreſſed in European clothing would not be A 
trom natives of the Pur of F rance. | 


The clothing of they poor is a a ſmall piece of * tied 
3 an apron, paſſed under the body, and faſtened by a, piece 
of packthread which ſurrounds the waiſt ; this, except that 
ſome have a ſmall turban, is the whole of their apparel. - 
In cold weather they ſuper-add a piece of cloth, which is 
thrown over the ſhoulders, and wrapped round the body. 
Thoſe in better circumſtances wear a larger piece of cloth 
which is ſwaddled on, like a child's cloth in England, with 
the looſe end hanging down as an apron, and * upper 


but Muflulmans' ſhave their crowns entirely. The ladies 


nn 
cloth looſe as above. | Akron who' c Ard i "0 
Famas, or frocks, which hang to the ground like petticoatz. 
All are very fond of ornamens, as eur- rings, &c. The 
| Hindoos wear a bracelet round the neck, which diſtinguiſhes 
them from Muſſulmans, and they alſo have a ſmall lock of 
haif vn the crown of the head, which is formed into a tail: 


= 9. on a +TiqT39 


wear a piece of cloth wrapped round them, almoſt in form 
of a petticoat, and à piece thrown looſe over the ſhoulders, 
They alſo have many ornaments round the wriſt, ancles 
and neck; and when full dreſſed they have a large fing in 
the noſe. The higher feniales are ſeldom ſeen. 1 never 
yet ſaw a Braminee; but others of lower caſts are at ill 
markets and ſhews. They are very fond of noiſe and ſhey, 
which indeed are the only things that draw them to ſome 
of their idolatrous practices. I may in future deſcribe ſome 
of theſe; but it will be previouſly neceflary to be acquainted 
with their mythology, &c. of which I may from time to 
time ſend you ſome little account; though I am but in : 
manner beginning to Ine the truth from the ſhaſters them- 
2 8 


„ „ „ .o.o . £#3@Y a r oa 


| Their marriages are contracted in very early life, if 

the parents have a ſufficiency to defray the expences of the 
ceremony; as it is uſual on theſe occaſions, I believe, for 
the father of the wife to make conſiderable gifts to the 
father of the huſband. Marriages are contracted from the 
age of two or three years, but generally about the aged 
ten and twelve. The parties remain ſeparate until a cet 
| tain time, and afterwards live together, I have heard! 
new married child crying bitterly when carrying about in 
the d hol, or Benga! palanquin. There is no conſent of 
the parties, it is merely a bargain between the parent 


809 


The principal object of every father here, is to marry his 
children, and to expend a large ſum of money on that 


builneſs. . The poor, hoſe parents cannot afford the | 


expence, are obliged to wait till they ebene can ſave 
my enough to . che ren „ 


"The dad e eg theta dead and ee enn 
once a month over their graves. The Hindoos burn 


their dead by the river ſide; and always leave a Culſee, 5 


or kind of jug of water by the. place. The poor people 
only throw their dead into the river, where they are 
devoured by crows, kites, and various animals. If a 
Hindoo of wealth is taken dangerouſly ill, he is carried to 
the banks of the Gunga, or holy river; for all the Ganges 


is not accounted holy, only ſome parts; and the holy water 
| oftea leaving the great river, runs into ſmaller, of which 


the Hoogly is one. The ſick and dying are therefore carried 
to theſe holy places, and carefully watched until they ex- 
pire, Offerings are made to the dead, on many occaſions, 


which at preſent I cannot particularize, 
| | * 


May the power of God ſubdue theſe long and deeply 
rooted iniquities. I hope more . miſſionaries will be ſent 
ſoon; could I ſee your face in the fleſh it would be joy 
e we ſhall meet 1 cruſt before the throne of 


God. . 
ur. FOUNTAIN to Mr. oo London. 


3 Dec. 3, 1796. 
| THE. ee ſenſe 1 yet retain of the many 
inſtances of your kindneſs to me white in London, and 


your welfare; and ee e * os dio, 


' -  *ibbar” aſking me” to | preach; which if they kad done, 


> 

4 i 
, the ana Fhioka' eee wide 

render it my pleaſure as well as my duty to enquire afte 


ar reſpeRtig?myſels; * THis s 


: Li 
* Kid's : Y = 48 
4 * FI - wd 2 $544 P27 


During the paige, ey often talked: in ahi and 


would have accepted the invitation“ We had daily diſpute 
.about religion, but they were all poſſeſſed of deiſtical prin 
ciples. My ſituation was fat from com fbrtable ; but truf 
I often enjoyed the mani feſtation of his preſence who hah 
ſaid to each of his een (Fc 1+ a user lee un nur 
| r th Kind; 

1 hard ein 4 bur G it ons _ me 
good?” I never was better in my life, than 1 began to be 
before I left the ſhip- We reached” Calcutta on the 19th 
of September. I foundiit Very wor but ee, 88 
receided no injury- 


This is 8 Suh pleaſant ſeaſon of the year; 
and were it not that I knew by the ſucceſſion of months 
that this i- December, I ſhould not judge ſo by the face 
of naturk. The trees all around are in full leaf, at 
the fields white with har veſt. The difference between 
the heat of the day and the cold of the night is aſtoniſh 
ing. Mornings and evenings I am glad to button uy 
in my great coat; but in che middle of the day, although 
this is the cold ſeaſon, I can go in a waiſtcoat, | 
bathe every day at twelve o'clock, either in a rivet 
near Mr. Carey's houſe, or in a large tank near nf 
oven bungaloe, (a place built with bamboos, and covered 
with tuſhes)* about a qparter of A ga Hom Mr, 
Cirty's" houſe, In which 1 ny bo 
write. 


— nn N WR 1 N . n * 7 NN r Nr Pris ite, N = ohh * 8 rn on ed Eon 
RG RC I ne ones 
3 — V * - * Ll p44 . * 3 I wr = 4-7 5. * „ „ ” 3 

f ; D Ws . . 9 * "0 wy * — 4£ 
Is U 2 h * 


1 3 5 
, DE N 
o * N * KY * 5 1 
I * 1 . Fa ; 3 7 
l 8 : . | . 4 ; 
A ſabbath, was unknown in this part of India, till = 
the miſſionaries came; nor is it now regarded ſave by =_ 


a few of our neighbours. In the intervals of preaching 
to the natives we have worſhip in Engliſh, at which 
times We 4 1 rmons, except on thoſe ſabbaths when 
ve and bro homas's family meet together : then we 


always haue . preaching; Laſt ſabbath day we all mt 
together, and beſides preaghing to the natives, we each _ 3 
of us preached once in Engliſh. . In the afternoon we = 
celebrated the dying love of Jeſus, according to his own 
appointment; and the next day, being the firſt Monday 
in the month, we remained together, and in the evening 
united our prayers with thoſe of our dear brethren in 
England, and other parts of the world, for ths in * | 
YO CO, 1 Ys e 01-02 


66 It Manet be ſaid that. praying "Fs 
Was ever kene in vain.“ 


Oh how great and numerous are 3 countries on 
this vaſt Aſiatic . groaning under the power of 
the prince of darkneſs We here ſee, as it were, a world 
lying in wickedneſs! But by reflecting on what God has v 
done, and being perſuaded of what he will do, there 1 is 
ſufficient ground for encouragement. Nations, many and 
great, once ſunk as deep in wretchediteſs and ignorance as 
theſe can be, have been enlightened and made happy by 
the goſpel of the grace of God: and © all the ends of the 
earth ſhall remember, and turn unto the Lord ; yea, the 
glory of the Lord ſhall be revealed, and all fleſh ſhall ſee 
it together,” The Lord will build up Zion: and oh that 
be who is now. writing to you my be an humble inftru- 
ment in ſo great a work! ' 


Tb, Ke. 
. | JF. 
ER 
k 


8 a 9 R n * nennen ̃ 07 5 IP PIPY 5 ier * 
SE $85 2s EE Ge ed a das ako 
4 , 2 * ba . 
TR | Pt 
.< . . 


1 * 7 Ne 2 

| 5 POE. 

* 5 : wt 342 VF 

7, REN . 

a | 4 3 5 

N av 413 ESR, 1» " «Ft i | . 2; +4 * * . MP et) L 
9 2 8 | = 2 9 4 
e bi: W ITE, e 3 

< * 


. CAREY" to u. NF, Magn 


* 4.4 ; * 3. 8 r "£24 f *. Ad" as * A 8 
1 2 4 4 # a > Fo : 1 * * * N * 
F 5 2 * : e 4 1 F + h Ss FAS ka 
„ 3 5  Mudnabarty, Dec. 16, 1196. 
6 Ta & #4 af } ** ta 


AM oy ſired it will always Re you 1 


Jure to hear of the affairs of the church of God; and even 
if they ſhould be unproſperous, yet there is a ſpirit in 1 
ſervant of the Lord Jeſus which feels a ſacred enjoyment 
in ſympathizing with, or even bewailing the miſeries of 
the cauſe of the Lord Jeſus .Chriſt ; and I doubt not but 
the prophet Jeremiah felt more genuine enjoyment when 
uttering his lamentations over the miſeries of Jeruſalem, 


than was ever felt in the purſuit of . TID * 


We have au DWP which oy for * 


lence of all the miniſters of the goſpel; but I bleſs God 
we have, not diſappointments only: we have ſome cauſe to 
rejoice and alſo to wonder at the mercy which has at 


all ſucceeded our attempts. Vou have heard of the ap- 


| pearances of grace which were in three natives of high 


caſt, namely Ram Ram Boſhoo, Mohun, Chund, and 
Parbotee. Of theſe the firſt was a very promiſing 


perſon, of fine abilities: and though cold in the things 


of God from my coming into the country, yet is neatly 


as well informed in the word of God as the generality 


of chriſtians in England: but he has awfully fallen into 


: adultery ; and, conſidering the profeſſion he had long 
made of the ways of God, it was neceſſary for me to 


diſcharge him from my ſervices, to prevent any bad 


concluſions againſt chriſtianity itſelf, which others might 
have drawn from my keeping him. I have not yet 
ſeen Parbotee, but have heard the natives bear teſi- 


. Mopy to his conduct in ſuch a manner as has given 


27 


— ; mm a [ 


* 


8 880%, 8 1 i | : F 
— encouragement: particularly * he very 
lately gave up OO, employment becauſe his maſter 


infiſted on his, making an idolatrous offering for the 


ſouls of his dead relations. Mohun Chund has an 
attachment; to the goſpel, which. is very encouraging, 


and I have witneſſed its continuing in all ſituations, . 
though his ideas of the goſpel are confuſed. Another 
Bramin, whoſe name is Caſh Naut Mookhurjee, ap- 


to be under genuine concern laſt year, and 1 truſt 


the work is really begun in him: he left me for want 
ef ſuppart, and is gone to the neighbourhood of Nuddea. 
A providence . which calls me to go to Calcutta imme- 
diately, wall, I. babe, give. me an e of 12 


5 


% . 


8 1 we 8 S a "few the pail 10 the 
greateſt encouragement by far that we Ing ever met 


* ; 
q * 


with in our pleaſing work, in the converſion,” I truſt, . 


of four muſſulmans, who are all poor labouring men, but 


to ſay much about themlelyes, except one, whoſe name 
is Yardee; he is a man of very good abilities, though 
not the ſmalleſt. education, and his account is very ſimple 
and "pleaſing indeed, I think very evident marks of 
piety. are apparent in..them all, and hope they may 
ſoon make a more public N of the goſpel ; they 


have already begun to ta 
of the Lord Jeſus, and it may” perhaps increaſe; T 


hope the Lord will fortify their minds, and make them 
overcome all that. oppoſition' which they may have to 
endure, and which ey. EE endured SO] n * 


coming patience, 


Y'y 2 


whoſe minds appear to be effeAually impreſſed with the 
importance of eternal things. Theſe men are not able 


e of perſecution. for the fake - 


> ESSE. 

nabe ins le Engage —— 
| Hite being pouted forth; is no fmall agement to 
us; and the arrival” of anther brother w Jom Ws in 
2 arduous büfineſs, PA further encbutagement.” Indes 

F *rutt” that God is | eminetitly girding on his "ſword, | 
and e nol go forth conquering and to 
May the whole world ſoon become willingly ſubje& w 
; „ i e e * 
besven! 8 . F NT” 


Wai Ties, ROY 6a nw" wes " kh 
3 harmony, and I tn uſt mall continue to dd b. We 
need, and I' doubt not ſhall haves i gre in your _— 
a throws of wy 1 ü 

85 

_ My loye 0 4¹ 2 love the Lord Jeſus Chil, par- 
Eculatſy Mr. a at th ith whom 1 had fore ſmall ac- 

"an n wot the eve * 


UF 
42 2 
. 3 % 


$2 


4 IE LN TN CE AZ 44-4 4. + n 14818 N 0 oh 
4 -1 4 o * * 14 ** 7 
- - 54 
: ; . 5 
* TY. : 4 Woes & *. 
” » : * * 
k & > 4 „ = > 4 - ** 8 * ; LORE. 
« N hk l $8: ? 
— 19 4 d a . N 
8 CES $4, 701 
bw 
ad + > * - 2 7 
i . * Fi E T 89 £ 
= 
* wy * 
D 1. Cc: aer to | Mis" 4 
* AS 
a b 
3 


anden River, Dos * 


1 - AM now. on a + june 8 to Tee Mr, 
83 who is "ry ill. 


Apo lalt inks "ad "%Z EN 
an where the boat lay to fer 4 night. A 
congregation gathered around me, and I felt much en- 
larged in talking with them. They heard with much 

attention, which is generally manifeſted by their anſwer- 


ty ing e * by. . Apt upon it „„ 
to o ohe another. Their obſervations; are ſometimes: % 
in clamorous, that 1 have found it neceſſary to forbid them, _ 
od nd at others to deſiſt till the noiſe has has ſubſided,” 4 4 

| 


This is pleaſant to the preacher :. : but we have dften © 
congregations of another ſtamp, who ſeem as inſenſible. _ = 
4 ſtones, and all that can be advanced makes not the — = 
ſmalleſt immpreſſion upon them. However we are much 


( couraged and ſtren gthened, and the more ſo by the om? 

5 ing of brother F ountain 1 us. 8 7 
* 4 1 ä 15 4 
: The tranſlation, of the friptures 1 1 FED upon » be: « © + 5 
dae of the greateſt deſiderata in the world, and it has >” 5 
| xctordingly occupied a conſiderable part of my time and at- 3 B 
tetion ; and through great mercy the new teſtament is now 12 5 


. ſo near cappletion that I hope to have the tranſlation and 
fit reviſon of it finiſhed by the end of March. This 
i journey will, it is true, "hinder the reviſion, but will pro- 
cure me much information reſpecting it, e de 


equally uſeful to the million. | | * 
1 5 44 ˖ö˙O— K ˙ 
| The mercy. of our Lord Jeſus ay be i you 
Ws «fs + WO Op + FSR 
4 NPE 8 5 * 1 1 2 
— — — 8 : * 
| 4s 4 $ ; A f 4 . os 4 i 66 2 
Mr. CAREY to the SeETT¹T 
TCCCCCCCCCC ST, = 
i -; ado — — | LE ; - 91 : 
| 3 g : 5 


Honoured and dear brethren, A 1 1 Dec. NY 1796. 


I BLESS God, our proſpect is conſiderably bright- 
ened up, and our hopes are more enlarged than at any 


5 


Ns © 


been mne ales of the Aided: 


FE 


| 


to very pleaſing appearances of the goſpel Re. been 
made effectual to four poor labouring muſſulmans, who 


have been ſetting their faces towards Zion ever ſince the 
month of Auguſt laſt. I hope their baptiſm will not by 
much longer deferred; and. that might encourage Mohup 
Chund, Parbotee, and Caſſi Naut, (who laft year, appeared 

to ſet out in the ways! of God) to declare for the Lon 
— Chriſt, by an 1 en of their th. & in 


him. 5 0 | e wi 
„ 7 | 7 , co 
2 * wy thing like encouragement did not come with ſu 
an | ill grace from us, I would now attempt to encourage be 
our beloved friends ; ; not by relating, our zeal, aQivity, ad 
or ſucceſs. We can only ſay that upon the whole we 0 
have not forgot our errand ; and though we have great Wi 
reaſon to bemoan our un for ſo great a work, yet WW Pp: 
we have been doing ſomething : but I wiſh to encourage 
you by the recollection of what God has wrought, 
When the ſociety was firſt eſtabliſhed, many were the bh. 
doubts whether it would not be cruſhed in its infancy; 0 
but it bas now flood for a conſiderable time, and it m 
ſucceſs, though, not equal to its wiſhes,” is not however Bi t! 
ſo ſmall as to be imperceptible. Many thouſands have We I: 
heard the word of the goſpel from our mouths, and the 
name of Chriſt begins to be known, in ſeveral parts a 
the country. Seven of the natives, we hope, are indeed 0 
converted, and another miſſionary is now ſafely arrived e 
Perhaps a more proper ſpot to make a large ſtand for WW , 
the ſpread of the goſpel could have ſcarcely been choſen. 
This is a fituation ſo central, that had we ſufficient men 
and proper means, the goſpel might with eaſe and ſmall . 
expence be ſent from hence through all Hindoſtan, Perlu, WW . 


Boutan, Aſſam, and what are generally called the Raj 
mahl Hills, on the weft of the Ganges; and were 1 


proper pig W li he edupation 8 for this 
*xtealive deſign, might be obtained in one ſituation in 
this country, and a connection with the miſſion here 
be regularly and - invariably maintained. The impor- 
ance of à proper and prafticable plan of education, 
not for the children of the natives only, but for the 

children of the miffionaries alſo (ſome of whom, it is 

to be hoped, might in time be converted by. the grace 
of God, and become miſſionaries themſelves, or be other- 
wiſe ſerviceable in the miſſion) is obvious, not to men- 
tion the almoſt neceſſity of females, well qualified, to 
communicate the "goſpel of Chriſt in a ſituation” where 
ſuperftition ſecludes all the women of reſpectability from 
hearing the word, unleſs from their own ſex; and the 
advantage which would ariſe from many t being embarked 
together in ſuch a cauſe, to our own. fouls, when the 
numbers engaged would all add to the. * of each. 


| Wal. 5 % 
particular * WS... * 


Ri of theſe conſiderations, the neceſſity of 
having proper perſons to carry on the work in caſe of 
our death, or any other occurrence in providence which 
might remove us from the work; and the importance of 
| the number of immortal ſouls to whom we have acceſs, 
Require a "RIO of our ir eauſe. ; 


The numerous rivers of H indoſtan are admirably Pt 
culated for excurſions, which might be made in ſmall boats, 
each of which would coſt about forty rupees, ircing” up 
and all, and be manned by three men. 


7 


| . I an afraid of Wag the ſociety with the 
appearance of large expences, or I ſhould ſay ſomething 
about printing the new teſtament. I am now going 
down to Calcutta, and intend to make the neceſſary 


* 


A 7 5 COT IE SITY 5 2 9 ä 9 N mY EY 9 3 * 
% | J | 200 % + LE ; Wks. We 1 
1 l EP % 


7 A 27 & 5 * * 2 s 
8 4 8 | 4s | 
\ 2 | r 4% 
* q 2 . We 348 7 . 
W 


. about the! 3 of. printing. i. here; bu 
at ſtrikes me that a preſs, new types, and a mi 
printer, all ſent from England, will! ee at leaſt 1 
a thouſand pounds in printing ten | thouſand" copies; uf 
Bo: this I intend more preciſely to aſcertain. A preſs hen 
would be an invaluable' bleſſing to us -it ſhould be accon, 
| 155 panied with Bengal, Arabic, and Engliſh letter, or th 
. . min, 3 the forge bolt 
| ;® convenient. 1 5 1 


25 K 


4 


„ *# 1 a. now learning the ſhanſcrit FO. Os el 
7 may be able to read their ſhaſters for myſelf; and I han 
acquired ſo much of the Hindee, or Hindoſtanee, 2 U 
converſe in it, and Þreach for ſome time intelligibl, 
This is but a jargon indeed, yet it is the current language 
of all the i from Rajemabil to Delhi, and 'perhay 
farther, though more and more mixed with the Perky 
as it advances towards that country. With this I can h 
underſtood nearly all ovef Hindoſtan; ; and even the las 
. guage of Ceylon has ſo much affinity with that of Bengl, 
that out of twelve words, with the little ſhanſcrit that] 

- Know, 1 can underſtand fiye or fix. 


ö - — You will altndividua y accept of my heiden lore, 
5 and let me intreat you not to be weary in well doing; 
| for in due ſeaſon you ſhall mn, 9 85 if you _ 


7 Se | | not. 
| 4 n affe&ionaely. your's, 
a... W. CAREY. 


* 


uur. CAREY to Mr. CAFE. 
| H 3 
3 River Ganges, Dec. 26, 1769 
I HAVE received two letters from you to whe 
dates, being on a a. I cannot refer, I feel my ſel 


349 


ee. 
much ders that the church under your care, which i is 
ſo dear to my heart, is ſo comfortably ſettled, and in a 
proſperoug,}ftate ; nothing would more afflict me than to 
hear of that on; being in a e or *. con- 
dition. 


Vour having entered upon the paſtoral office over 
that people of whom I at preſent am one, induces me to 
write to you with the more freedom ; and eſpecially as I 


| ſo that no ſuſpicion can poſſibly ariſe of prejudice either 
for or againſt you perſonally ; nor indeed of any thing elſe, 
but a deſire that your labours may be uſeful, and the proſ- 


— perity of thoſe dear people permanent. 
5 Let then, my dear brother, the intereſts of that church 


be firſt in your heart, and purſue them before every other 
object; indeed, conſider every other object as only proper 
to be purſued for that end. Leiceſter is that part of the 
Lord's univerſal intereſt which you are called more imme- 
diately to ſuperintend. All your affection, efforts, time, 
talents, improvements, gifts, ſhould therefore be in a man- 
ner concentrated there ; and you muſt conſider that church 
n a peculiar charge with which the Lord has entruſted 


church; and both are of the utmoſt importance: in order 
to theſe two great ends being accompliſhed, all your 
exertions and prudence will be neceſſary; it will be neceſ(- 
ſary in order to win fouls, that you ſhould be in 
earneſt to do it, and that your earneſtneſs ſhould be 
mixed with all the benevolent affections, ſo as to ap- 
pear before mankind. Earneſtneſs will lead to ſtudy, and 
a cloſe attention to important truth, as connected with 
all its conſequences. ReſpeRability in miniſters tends to 


Z Zz 


whole 
ny {all 


am unknown to you in a great meaſure, and you alſo to me; 


you for his glory. Two objects, my dear brother, lie 
before you; viz. the increaſe, and reſpectability of the 


* 
4 


| 
| 
1:3 
j 
| 
I 


350 


eee 
make their WE reſpected among other churches ; but 


their true reſpeQability conſiſts in their ſpirituality, holi. 


neſs, love, and growth in knowledge and grace: ſhould 2 
miniſter be deficient in any of theſe, or ſhould he be enthuſi- 
aſt ical, or formal, the people of his charge muſt be eminent. 
ly ſufferers thereby, in their beſt and moſt important inter. 
eſts. Affection, diligence, holineſs, and ſound judgment in 
a miniſter, have an amazing influence on a people; and as 
in diſſenting congregations, a miniſter is chofen by the 
people, and retained only by their ſuffrage, it is to be infer- 


red, that their minds are akin to his, and that there is 


— of vie ws and practices. 


1 


Being unknown Fa you, and ſill retaining an undying 
affection for the people with whom you are, I have taken 
the liberty to ſpeak my ſentiments thus freely : and one 
more observation I may make, which I have found very 
uſeful to myſelf; that is, highly prize the counſel and 
friendſhip of other miniſters, eſpecially thoſe of the great- 


eſt eminence. It was one of the greateſt privileges of my 


life to be favoured with the kind advice, and kinder 


_ corrections of ſuch men, and their friendſhip was a jewel 


which 1 cannot too highly Prin 


I rejoice that Aiſcipline is maintained. I hope all the 


ſocial meetings are kept up alſo, and that the revival 


which was begun in the Spirit, will be carried on in the 


Spirit alſo. 


My love to all the people: I forbear to mention 


names, for all are dear to me. Chriſtian reſpects to 


Mrs. —. 


ß , £©. > . . Aa mo. 


the 
val 


the 


ion 


Mr. CAREY to the CHURCH of CHRIST, 
Meeting in Harvey Lane, Leicester, 


— e 0e 


Hoogley River, (near Moorshadabad) Dec. 30, 1796, 
Beloved in tbe Lord Fes. „ 

WHILE I live, I trust, I can never forget thoſe 
ſeaſons of ſweet communion which I enjoyed while I 
was with you; the relish of which now attends me 
ſometimes, even in theſe ſolitary parts of the world, 
where the extremes of ſituation are perceived in a 
degree beyond your conception; though I hope no- 
thing that 1 may ſay will ever be thought like the 
intimation of a wish to deſert my poſt ;z=no, I have 
ſet my hand and heart to this plough, and trust that 
I ſhall die in this beloved WORK: | 


Yet, dear brethren, I wish to make you sensible how 
great the blessings of christian ſociety are; and what 
unspeakable obligations you are under to a gracious God, 
for caſting your lot in ſo fair a part of his inheritance. 
When numbers meet in love to ſerve the Lord, how 
many things are there conſpiring to raiſe the heart to 
a pitch of devotion and pleaſure, which a ſolitary place 
denies — Jeu read each others countenances, and each 
Inſpires another with pleaſure, devotion, and joy ; your 
frequent meetings for prayer and praiſe, how animating 


to your ſouls !—How great these privileges are, I can 


eſtimate better than you. If we meet, it is after a long 


Journey of twenty miles; more fatiguing than forty in 


England: when met, and altogether, we are a church 
conſiſting of five members; ſometimes we preach in 
| £ Z 2 


4 b 75 W 5 . 2 


332 

Engliſh. to a congregation leſs than twenty ; and all the 
land besides brim full of idolatry, worldliness, and igno. 
rance extreme] Some natives enquire after the Lord; 
but in general the ſtupidity of the poor, the euthuſiaſm 
and folly of thoſe who are better informed ; the many 
fears which we, who, are poſſeſſed of a godly jealouy 
for the converted natives, feel at every appearance of 
coldness, or miſtake in them, are all . to freeze 
' the warmeſt ſoul. 


But you encourage each other inſenſibly: and while 
numbers altogether walk in Zion's ways, your hearts 
are warmed you know not how; and a fire and cloud 
is perceived over the aſſemblies of Mount Zion: indeed, 
to uſe a cold metaphor, ſociety contributes to the growth 
of grace as motion increaſes the bulk of a ſnow ball, 
which rolls and rolls along, and gathers more and more 
till it becomes from a ſmall handful, an enormous 
maſs ; or, like a confluence of ſmall ftreams, each of 
which alone may fertilize a ſmall ſpot of land; but 
all united form a vaſt river, which furniſhes conveyance 
of riches from every part, for thouſands of miles, and all 
at laſt is landed in ſome great city, to the opulence of 
which, when united, every ſtream contributes; but al! 
would be almoſt useleſs if ſeparate ;—ſo every chriſtian 
while in an unconnected ſtate, may be of little uſe ; but all 
united, form a torrent like the Ganges, which rolls on 
with majeſtic uninterrupted force, till it conveys its 
waters to the great ocean. | 


Your privileges are great: but, dear brethren, be 
individually careful to occupy in your places; many rivers, 
ſome greater, ſome ſmaller, fall into the Ganges; but 
if only one small stream dries up, it has an effect up- 
on the whole; if many, or if ſtreams of considerable 


— 


aa owe. as os. eo a 9 ² —_—_ 


Cn _—_ atm. IJ r trans At 


ble 


333 

; SS 
magnitude fail, the navigation of the great river is ob- 
ſttucted, and all the fields mourn for a thouſand miles 
or more: ſo, dear brethren, be very careful each one 


to fill up your respective places, that a large tribute of 


glory may redound to our most gracious Saviour and 
Redeemer. It may not be a matter of much moment 
what some of us individually can do, of either good or 
evil; as the Tanguan, Nagore, and an hundred ſmall 
rivers in this country, are of little conſequence, but 
the honour of the Ganges is of great conſequence, to 
which every stream contributes; ſo you, all flowing 
together, your hearts are enlarged, and greater glory 
redounds to the great Redeemer; because the church 
is that which contributes to spread abroad the glorious 
Saviour's fame. 1 


It is a very pleaſing circumſtance that you were ſo 
ſoon provided with another paſtor; and that he is ap- 
proved, and esteemed univerſally : you will not ſuppoſe 
him to be more than a man, either in point of abilities, 
or impeccability; he is but a fellow mortal with your- 
ſelves; he may be overtaken, but muſt not be haſtily 
condemned; he may be an excellent preacher, but he 
will not always preach alike, nor will you always hear 
alike; he therefore muſt not be deſerted, nor idolized. 
Remember, if he preach God's word, you are bound to 
honour him, very highly indeed for his work's ſake; and 
if it does not ſuit any one's taſte, let ſuch an one ex- 
amine himſelf whether there be not ſomething in his own 
heart, which does not cordially coincide with the word of 
God. | | 


In ſhort, live in Love, cultivate DISCIPLINE; con- 
ſider yourſelves as at the diſpoſal of God, and never go 
reluctantly about any thing which he commands you, whe 


nt 2 r bet 1 wan * 
2 - 2 7 7 + 4 : =_ = 1 THE PS C1 WG I * \ 
42 een 8 j 


3 
ED n 


eee 


1 


| 354 


»SS0- | 
ſo willingly laid down his life to deliver you MY the 
loweſt hell. And, dear brethren, pray, for us, that ye 
may be uſefu] in this important ſituation, where proyi. 
dence has placed us: and I have alſo to intreat you tg 
diſmiſs me from you to the church of Christ, meeting at 
MAudnabatiy, or elſewhere, Bengal; this I requeſt in love, 
that all things may be done decently and according w 


the goſpel order, which our Lord Jeſus Chriſt has 25 
pointed. 


My love. to you every one, and particularly to al 
your dear officers ; may you be preſerved in love and peace, 
to the coming of our dear Lord Jeſus ! 


Your's affectionately, 


W. Carty. 
Mr. CAREY to Mr. P, Leicester. 


Hoogley River, (near Plaſſey) Jan. 2, 1797, 


WE are all well, through much mercy. My whole 
family enjoy much better health than we did at our fir 
coming, though excepting three or four attacks of bilious 
fevers, which are very common, and to which I am 
ſomething addicted, I have had better health than when 
I was in England. 


T have written about the miſſion to ſo many, that 
I ſhall not repeat it here; only, as I have been often | 
deſired to ſay ſomething of our conferences with the na- 
tives, I will juſt tell you a little of my proceedings yel- 
terday, eſpecially as it is freſh on my memory. Being 
Lord's day, I lay-to at a place called Rungamuty, 


. 


3583 


»»S S0--»> 


ind in the morning went to a neighbouring village, eat: | 
{ed Untopore, where I had a good congregation ; they, 
however, told me that they ſhould be glad to hear in the 
evening, when ſome brahmans would have notice and 
come to hear and judge. I accordingly went, and the 
people began to gather ſoon; at laſt one brahman made 
his appearance, with whom TI entered into diſcourſe; pre- 
ſently others came, and in a little time I had a congre- 
ration greater than could poſſibly hear my words; I altered 
my uſual method of preaching from a paſlage of ſcrip- 
ture, becauſe the goſpel found had never been heard here; 
and began by ſaying, Brahmins, I have many things of 
great importance to ſay, and I wiſh you to attend, and 
vive your advice; to which they aſſented. I then ſaid, 


Can you inform me, how a linner can poſſibly obtain 


ſalvation?” They anſwered, Every people have their 
own ſhaſters, and their own kind of holineſs; attend to 
the proper work recommended by the ſhafters of your 
country,” 1 anſwered, « Holineſs conſiſts in the diſpoſi- 
tion of the heart, God is holy; if my mind is like him, 
this L think is holineſs; if unlike him, this is unholy: 
but how can a finner be reconciled to an holy God? As 
to all the offerings and ſacrifices which can me made by 
mens' hands, you know that many perſons offer them who 
are the ſame day guilty of whoredom, lying, and many 
evil practices; therefore all this, which your ſhaſters call 
holineſs, may be done by unholy men.” They anſwered, 
„True.“ I then ſaid, „I am a ſinner, and I know that 
there are only two places for mankind after death, 


| heaven and hell; but I cannot bear the torments of 


hell; what muſt I do? and what muſt you all do?” 
They enquired, of what fin I had been guilty? I told 
them, „Many; but particularly that my heart was im- 
pregnated with fin; as pride, envy, wrath, and the like.” 
They ſaid, I muſt forſake ſin. I ſaid, Will this make 


356 
» 


amends for my paſt guilt? Suppoſe a man guilty of mur. 
der, was to live a peaceable life always afterwards, will that 
expiate his guilt?” I believe they really thought thy 
I had murdered ſomebody, and that the guilt of murdet 
lay heavy on my mind; for they aſked if I wanted to 
know what was a proper atonement for murder? I tod 
them that all ſins were great in God's fight, and that! 
aſked what would be a proper atonement for ſin in genera, 
They told me ſeveral accounts of the murder of brahminz 
being expiated: but I made ſuch objections to the validity 
of ſuch atonements, that they were all much puzzled, | 
then ſaid, ** Brahmans, I have examined, and I think it 
of the greateſt importance to diſcover a proper way to life; 
for not only am J a ſinner, but, from what I ſee, all man- 
kind are ſo too; what muſt we ail do? I have examine 
your ſhaſters, but can find no way upon which I dar 
depend; nor would I have you depend on any ſuch method, 
Firſt, ſaid I, your debtahs (idols) cannot fave, for 1 find, 
from your ſhaſters, that they are as much the enemies of 
God and righteouſneſs as men are. Seeb, ſaid I, you know, 
once ſhewed a very wicked mind; when the ſea wa 
churned for the Amreeta, or Ambrofia, you know that 
Naraion, appeared in a very beautiful female form, and 
that Seeb was ſo captivated as to propoſe to turn away 
his two wives, and renounce all his religion for one 
embrace. Naraion alſo, on the ſame occaſion, you know, 
ſtole the Amreeta ; and though both the Soors,* and 
Aſoors, F had Jaboured to churn the ſea, yet he gar 
none of it to the Aſoors. Chreeſhno, you know, was 
notorious whoremonger ; and in fact 1 find that none o 
them are the friends of God; but if they were, and all 


% Soors, celeſtial deities, 


+ Asoons, infernals, 


357- 


es- 

alſo their power was as great as you ſay, yet if the maſter 
(God) was angry, how eould they, who are only ſervants, 
belp us ſinners I alſo read, ſaid I, that Viſbnoo was in- 
carnate nine times, and will bea tenth; but why ? Not to 
ſave ſinners !“ I here recited the reaſons. alledged by the 
ſhaſters for theſe. incarnations; but, ſaid I, If all this 
is true, yet thete is no way of liſe revealed i in your ſhaſ- 
ters; but what muſt we all do? what way is there ? how 
can ſinners be ſaved?” At this all wete filetit; and con- 
founded. I then told them, that if they conld not tell me, 
I would tell them; and that God, who had permitted the 
Hindoos to fink into a ſea of darkneſs, had at length com- 
miserated them; and ſent me and my en, to preach 
life to them. 


I then told way of Chriſt, bis Wa his 23 his 
love, his being the ſurety of ſinners, his power to ſave, 
Kc. and exhorted "_ earneſtly and e to 
come to him. 


Effects were various; one man came before I had 
well done, and wanted to ſell ſtockings to me; but I ſent 
bim away, by ſpeaking of the ſabbath, and our obligation 
to keep it holy: others wished me to ſtay another day, 
that they might hear more; I promiſed to ſee them on my 

return, and left them. My love to all friends, 


5 
: N * 


. Vour's, &c. 


At a COMMITTEE. MEETING held at KETTERING, 
Avus 29, 1797. 


LETTERS from India being read, the following 


om" paſſed unanimouſly : 
3 


— 


338 


22e 
I. That our brethren having, in a difinterextes- than. 
ner deelined their ordinary income” from us, at a time 
when they thought they could do without it; and various 
unforeſeen occurrences having ſinee Seed, which 'ren. 
der it neceſſary that we afford them ſubſtantial aſſiſtance 
the /atrears of the ſalary, which for a time they have vo- 
__ declined, be made [a by the Ne. > 9 


. That fifty pounds be added to the above, for the 
* of brother * from he time. of * arrival to 
Wee 7.1797 | | 


III. That we feet MPS! concerned to wi 
with out brethren's request of ſending more missionaries; 
but that at preſent there is either want of ſuitable perſons 
who are willing to go, or en Auen! in their way as 
cannot be ſurmounted. | WY 2 8 0 Rk * 


f 
er 
1115 Bot.) 18 { 4 1 * 


1 That the . of Ces 9 1 lefe to the 
diſcretion of brother Carey, with whom we will cheerfully 
co-operate to the utmoſt of our power. 


ts 
ft . 
* 
* 
a — 
— 
1 
3 
ih 
# 
* + 
» 
. 
— 
"aA 
1 5 
* ” 
8 FEW 
*- * 
8 — 
7 k 


« MISSION. 10 'CORNIWW ALL." 


THE encouraging circumſtances attending the Mis 
sion to the county of Cornwall the laſt year, induced the 
ſociety to reſolve on ſending two of our brethren to itine- 
rate there this year alſo. See p. 30 3˙ 


Accordingly brother Steadman left Broughton, on 
Monday July 3, and having preached at Saliſbury on his 
way, met brother Franklin at Exeter, on the Tueſday 
evening— there they. both pteached on the Wedneſday 
on the Thurſday they went on to Plymouth and Plymouth 
Dock, where they ſpent the reſidue of this week, and the 
following they entered on their labours in Cornwall, where 


KK 0 -$: 


359 
they continued for nearly eight weeks, preathing, not only 
on Lord's days, but for the moſt part, everytevening in the 
week days, and ſometimes on the mornings.alfo; Nearly 
the ſame tract was taken as laſt year; but ſome places 
they viſited, of which they either did hot know laſt fum- 
mer, or to which they then had no opportunity of einge 
ſuch were the following: ; 


16,73 
Town or eg 1 * of 8 No. oh, * 
träll os 5 +++ +++ Malthouse + — — FA 
' *Benfiicott®'s 5 «+ «++ Private house ä —** 4 
Whbeal Virgin «+ * Out of doors +» * * 1500 
i Pools 2 Al. 4538 3 Frets + 4264 — * 1 0 230 * 
Hay. «3+ 4» Methodist meeting, +++ 500 
„ Gulvillb eee Horse. block . Solid ot 0 
Bas kenn . Private house 80 10 
St Michael's Mount A Loft n HOU 
Gwinear | —2—2 * Street e 500 
Wal! .. +» Methodist, meeting * . 500 
Goldsitbny PT — I 600 
Kirle yy +++ . Methodist meeting —. . 800 
Toelyeheads . . . . Garden 500 
Blisslandgd . ++ ++ Methodist meeting ++ 200 
Polgooth ae: ++ Ditto;s ee diito 200 
West Looe ,,- +++ ++ + ++ Independent yo 100. 
Breage ,.. erm dp oo AWE. > vip mie ned Tom i 10 


11712 


8 
E 


In ſome 6f theſe places, preaching was, till our bre- 
thren viſited them, a thing unknown; however, great at- 
tention was paid to the word of life, and (with the exception 
of one place) they met with no diſturbance in their work 
from their hearers; on the. contrary, they receiyigd the 
thanks of many, accompanied with preſſing invitations to 


renew their viſit : but their greateſt encoumai en aroſe 


from their diſcovering that the laſt year's miſſion had been 
attended with the moſt happy conſequences to ſeveral per- 
ſons, one of whom has ſince died in the Lord; two more 
adorn a profeſſion they have made of Chriſt, and others who 


above one hundred and fifty diſcourſes; and on their re- 


360 

\ OSes | 

hive yet not joined themſelves to any chriſtian ſociety, 

give room ſor hope that they are among the OO whom 
the Lord has-called by his oo 


In the whole, our brethren were itineratin g for be. 
tween nine and ten weeks, in which ſpace they preached 


turn made to the ſociety the following remarks : 


We are fully of opinion, that further miſſions ſimi- 
lar to ours would be likely to do increafing good to the 
cauſe of religion. We hope the few instances of the ſuc. 
ceſs of laſt year's efforts, which have come to light, as they 
have ſufficiently ſatisfied us that our labour was not quite 
in vain, ſo they will convince our patrons, and the friends 


of religion,. and of the n that the expence has not 
been thrown away. 


c But we ſtill think that, vi were it practicable, ſome- 


thing of a more permanent nature ſhould be nn. as 
was ſtated in our laſt year's journal. 


„We have additional reason to bleſs God for the 
aſſiſtance afforded us, as we have met with no accident; 
never been confined, nor interrupted by illneſs ; nor, as we 
have reaſon to think, done ourſelves, by our frequent ex- 
ertions, the leaſt injury.—Again, therefore, we ſet to our 
ſeal, Faithful is he that hath promiſed—4s thy day, « 
shall thy Strength be. apy 


„ 


N. B. The ſociety have alſo encouraged village 
preaching in Hampsbire, Oxfordshire, and Warwickshire, 
as may be ſeen by referring to the appendix to No. IV, 
where the pecuniary affairs of the ſociety, for the laſt three 
To are laid before the Hh 


End of the fourth number. 


ni- 
the 


x EXTRACTS © OF: LETTERS 


"FROM MARCH, 1797, mY, 7anvany, 1798. 


A nee | 5 3 


1 : 
11712 9 : 


ur. CAREY t to $4 FULLER... 


| | Mudnabatty, March'23. RY 
OURS of May 2, 12, 13, 26, Sep. I, Oct, 11, alt. . 
[ received a few days since, for which I very sin- 
cerely thank you. The contents are both pleasing and 
painful. It rejoices my heart much to hear of our bre- 
thren in Scotland having 80 liberally set themselves to 
encourage the missions, and that on two accounts, inde- 
pendent of the pecuniary assistance which they afford. 
First, the unequivocal proof which it gives of their hear- 
tily coinciding with the mission plan; and secondly, 
the great assistance which must be derived to the work 
in answer to their prayers. The acquisition of a new 
multitude of helpers, all pouring out their requests to 
God for success on our undertakings, does not a little 
encourage my heart to proceed in the pleasing work. 


Want of suecess is very discouraging to me in one point 
3 C 


4 * 


361 

of view, as [ PRs it may tend to tire out the patience of 
our numerous and hearty helpers i in England : for their 
hopes having been very sanguine, and now meeting with 
so long a disappointment, they may at last decline, and 
their hearts be made sick. On any other account | an 
not discouraged. I am sure the work of God must pre. 
vail; and I think it cannot be long ere it does so: for 
God having graciously brought the gospel hither, and 
excited some to attend to it in a hopeful manner, is ; 
kind of pledge to me that he will not forsake. his work, 
Though the cast, and a great number of other supersti. 
tions be great obstacles, yet I know there are only two 
real obstacles in any part of the earth ; viz. a want of the 
scriptures, and the depravity of the human heart. The 
first of these God has begun to remove: and I trust the 
last will be removed shortly. When the Spirie is poured 
down from on high all superstitions will give way. Be 
encouraged therefore, brother, and encourage others, for 
the darkness is past in India, and the true light shineth, 
Perhaps it may be as brother Ryland suggests, general 
knowledge may first prevail, and prepare the way for 
losing cast, and Joining to the Lord. 


I; thank you for your opinion upon and advice abont 
receiving the natives while they retain their cast.“ I have 
since found it to be impracticable : for they would un- 
doubtedly be cast out of society in that case as well as 
the other. Mr. Swartz's 1 have all lost cast who 
are joined to his church. 


I have enough in myself to discourage me for ever, but 
I know the work is God's; and will therefore continue 
to go in the strength of the Lord God, making mention 
of his righteousness and of his only. 


| - 5 
Mr. Carey, considering the Cast as rather a civil than a religious distinc- 


tion, had entertained some doubts whether the natives should be required ie 
lose it, in order to their joining a christian community, 


ue 


362 

Mr. Thomas and myself are just arrived at home from 
an excursion to Boofan, in which we preached Christ in 
many places where his name was never heard before, and 
were attended to with great ardour. The name of our 
Redeemer has, been declared in that unknown country ; 
and we have the greatest encouragement to hope that a 
mission may be begun to great advantage in these parts. 


I will relate a little of our expedition. We set out from 
Moypauldiggy on the sixth instant, and arrived on the 
tenth in the Bootan country, viz. that part of it which is 
below the hills; for we did not ascend the mountains, our 
time not being sufficient to permit us to go through all 
the formalities requisite for that purpose. We went to a 
place called Gopulgunge, and waited on a Bootea officer 
called the Jinkof: he received us very kindly, and we 
presented him with a few. articles, with which he was 
much pleased. Here we found that it would be necessary 
to see some other officer, and to get a regular permission 
to ascend the hills. During the greatest part of the day 
we were in his house, which is large, and made of bam-. 


boos and mats; with Saul- tree pillars; and has an upper 


floor, where he lives, made of split bamboos. He made 
us à present of some pieces of bacon about a foot long, 
but which were so stale as to be offensive at a great dis- 
tance, After this he treated us with tea, which they call 
runga. The tea-pot is a large bamboo, with a hole per- 
forated through one of its knots within-side, which forms 
ine spout. The tea is made into cakes with some com- 
position, and when! used is mixed with boiling water, 
ghee,* and salt. We tried in vain to swallow it, though 
the Booteca drank very copiously of it. His kindness, 
however, was very conspicuous, and he drank of our rum 
more than we wished him. The Booteas are much ad- 
victed to drinking spirits, and pride themselves in drink» 


: Chee is butter melted down, and thus preserved for use, and is much use q 
It all parts of Beugal. 


* 
» 
"| 
9 
mW 
2 4 
! 
0 
1 
N 
= 
* 
f 
1 


- — — — 


— - = \ 
— — - n — * 
2 p 2 - - 
— = £5 a 2. : —_ 
; — : 


— * 


— 


n 
— 
— 


; 363 


ing much, though Anke is dn a shame 
amongst them. However, all will intoxicate themselves 
if they can get English spirits. They are taught to drink 
Spirits as soon as they can talk, and in all their houses 
you see large pitchers, called koolsees, about the size'of a 
small bucket, full of Bengal arrack, which they drink ag 
ye should water. 


The n call themselves Botes, but the Hindoos call 
them Booteas. They are very stout robust people; and 
with respect to dress, colour, and appearance, are like a 
very stout athletic Englisb waggoner, much weather. 
beaten. They have no stockings, but their dress is like 
a waggoner's frock, except the higher ranks, who have a 
garment much like an English gentleman's morning 
gown, made of blue, red, or green stuff, with large figures 
wrought in it like diaper, The women are tolerably white; 
their dress consists of a petticoat, and a cloth, which is 0 
fastened from the shoulders to the waist, as to appear like 
a very large pouch over the breast, in which they keep 
portable articles as in a pocket. Their hair is parted on 
the top of the head, and we saw no covering for the head 


of the females, though the men in othce had different 
coverings for the head. 


From Coden we went to Bote-Haut, to see the 
Soobah, who is the greatest officer, that is, a kind of vice- 
roy, below the hills. A letter having been sent to hin 
from the Jinkof, he sent two horses to attend us, and the 
Jinkof himself went with us. The procession was the 
most curious that could well be imagined, yet it strongly 
proved their great attention to us. A band of Bengal 
music, if such it can be called, preceded us. We had six 
horsemen and servants, andanumberof spectators, besides 
people to carry our baggage, tents, &c.,which in travelling 
by land in this country must be carried on men's shoul- 
ders. On one horse was the Jinkof, led by two men, 


ae 


8 * & 


nt 


ral 
ix 


- 


4 Py 
364 


-otwithstanding:which he was sometimes first, sometimes 
last, and sometimes turning round; his horse being un- 
governable. Every mile or two he was stopping to 
drink spirits. A Hindoo on another horse was much 
like him, except in drinking; and we had enough to do 
to keep our horses out of their way; to effeet which we 
were always wheeling to the right or left. 
Ly 2 1 8 + 

At our approaching- the town, a number of females 
met us, and made their salem;“ after which they ran 
before the horses, and all the inhabitants of the place, I 
should suppose, to the number of two or three thousand, 
joined the procession. | 


We went in this manner to the Soobah's house, who 
received us with great politeness, and made us presents 
of silk; viz. a white scarf in the name of the Grand Lama, 
a red one in his own name, and another red one in the 
name of a friend. After receiving the presents, we as- 
cended the ladder to his house, which was like the Jin- 
kof's, but much longer and more elegant. It had four 
rooms on the upper floor, which were entirely covered 
with mats. At the farther end of the principal room 
was the seat of the Soobah, raised about two feet from 
the floor, covered with red cloth, and hung .round with 
thin gauze curtains. Here we were seated by the Soo- 
bah. On two sides of the same room were seats for the 
servants, raised about six inches from the floor; and, 
like the Soobah's, made with planks of Saul-timber, but 
covered with sockeloth. A window of about a foot deep, 
made of lattice-work, ran throughout the two sides, on 
which the servants' seats were placed, there being only 
the outward walls; and a curtain of white cotton cloth 
was placed just above the window. On this curtain 
were hung shields and helmets, and under it match- 


* The common way of shewing respect in India, performed by putting the 
band to the head, and gently bowing. + F | 


365 
Jocks, bows and arrows, The under park of the house 
serves for a stable, &c. 


The genuine alibi * gentleman- like behaviour 
of the Soobah exceeded every thing that we could have 
imagined, and his generosity was astonishing. He in. 
isted on supplying all our people with every thing they 
wanted: and if we did but cast our eyes on any object in 
the room, he immediately presented us with one of the 
same sort. Indeed he seemed to interpret our looks be- 
fore we were aware; and in this manner he presented 
each oſ us that night with a sword, shield, and helmet; 
also a cup made of a light beautiful wood, used by all 
the Booteas in drinking. Perceiving that we admired 
the wood, he gave us a large log of it, which appears like 
fir, with a very dark beautiful grain. It is full of resin, 
or turpentine, and burns like a candle, if cut into thin 
slices, and serves for that use. 


In eating, the Soobah imitated our manners so quickly 
and exactly, that he appeared as free as if he had spent 


his life with Europeans, though he had never seen any 


of them before. We ate his food, though I confess the 
idea of the Jinkof's bacon made me eat rather sparingly. 


We then talked about Bootan, and about the gospel, 


and the appellation of Lama was given to us, which ap- 


pears to mean teacher, and which title is by them em- 
phatically given to the Grand Lama. 


We found that he had determined to give the people a 
testimony of his friendship for us in a publie manner, and 
the next day was fixed on to perform the ceremony in our 
tent on the market- place. Accordingly we got instruct- 
ed in the necessary etiquette, and informed him that as 
we were only come a short journey to see the country, We 
were not provided with English cloths, &c. for presents. 


. . ni By 3 OB 


=” 


W = = = > 


26 

fue time being come, however, we were waited on by 
the Soobah, followed by all his servants, both Booteas and 
Hindoos. Being seated, we exchanged each five rupees, 
and five pieces of betel, in sight of the whole town. And 
having chewed betel for the first time in our lives, we 
embraced three times in the eastern manner, and then 
hook hands in the English manner. After which he 
made each of us a present of a piece of rich Debang, 
wrought with gold, a Bootan blanket, and the tail of an 
animal called the Choar Cow. | 

When the ceremony was over we were ct to 
the Soobah's house, where we found another officer; I 
believe the Vakeel, or attorney of the court, below the 
hills. This man was just the reverse of all we had seen. 
He had been to Calcutta, and was a man of great con- 
sequence in his own eyes. He sat on the Soobah's seat 
like a statue, not rising when we entered, which the Soo- 
bah, a much greater man, always did. When we sat 
down he began a long discourse with the others in the 
Bootan language, which, as we did not understand, we 
also talked to each other in English. All this time a 
zervant, by his orders, held a lighted torch just in our 
faces, that he might stare at us. He then asked how 
many servants we kept, and whether we had a tent? This 
was to see whether we were great men or not. Our an- 
wers were very brief, and did not give him satisfaction. 
After exchanging a few angry words with the Soobah, he 
took his leave abrubtly. The Soobah was then transport- 
ed with rage, and threatened him dreadfully. He tore off 
his upper garment, seized a crese, (a kind of dagger) stuck 
it into the table, beat his breast, threatened to go after 


bim and kill him! We tried to appease him, and were 
mccessful. 


We declined going up the hills, as we found it was 


necessary to wait for an order from Pargong, the seat of 


the Pelew- Rajah, (who is a kind of minister of state to 


9 F 
La, 
; | f 


che Dib-Rajak) or 8 to have waited till an answer 
had returned from the Dib-Rajah himself, whose palace, 
15 we were not misinformed is at A | 

\Qna hog were acts hab; for hook the Hindoa 
had till now expressed the greatest confidence in the gen- 
tleness of the Booteas, yet they now began to propagate 
a great number of bloody tales; and nothing was talked 
of but the insincerity of the Booteas. As for ourselves, 
we were not quite so timid, though we were not without 
our cogitations. We, however, told them to run away for 
their lives, if any danger appeared. For fear of wild ele- 
' phants, &c., we had taken a gun or two; but we ordered 
that no gun should be loaded, nor any additional care 
whatever manifested, though we were certain the people 
would not sleep much that night. We then commended 
ourselves to God in prayer, and slept till morning. In 
the morning the Soobah came with his usual friendship, 
and brought more presents, which we received, and took 
our leave. He sent us away with every honour that he 
could heap upon us, as a band of music, guides to shew 
us the way, &c. In short, the whole of his conduct to- 
wards us was invariably as generous, polite, and friendly, 
as T ever witnessed. I suppose the above conduct of the 
Vakeel arose from his thinking himself to be a great man, 
and somewhat slighted in not having any present from us; 
but in truth we had nothing to present. The Soobah 
proposed paying us a visit in a little time. Should he 
do this, I hope to improve the interview for the great 
end of settling a mission in that country. 

So great a contrast T have never before seen between 
two neighbouring nations as the Booteas and Hindoos. 
The latter are small, puny, fearful people; the former 
athletic and fearless. They have a great curiosity. We 
gave them several articles, as a looking-glass, a pocket 


compass, &c., which were examined in every point of 
view. | 


(et 


368 
They have a written language, and I am informed 
many books written in it. The names of the letters are 


the same as the Bengalee, with a few exceptions, and are 
written in the same order, with only this difference, that 


the Bengalese have five letters in a line of the alphabet, 


but the Booteas only four. I am to be furnished with a 
n menen an Mr. Thomas W n. Ind od 


72 3 
1 


3 is a very large 3 ka. to hs Dib- 
Rajab. The Lama Goroo, as they call him, is, I think, 
only considered as a representative of God; and they 
have his image in their houses, about the size of a large 
man's thumb. The Soobah said, There was a greater 
* of worchip, who could only be seen by * man. 1 

L have; been wich the 1 180 at eee to nous 
him about the expense of printing the New Testament, 
which is now translated, and may be got ready for the 
press in a little time. It has undergone one correction, 
but must undergo several more. I. employ a Pundit 
merely for this purpose: with him I go through the whole 
in as exget a manner as L can. He judges of the style 
and syntax, and I of the faithfulness of the translation. 


1 have, however, translated several chapters together 
which have not required any alteration whatever in the 


syntax: yet I always submit this article entirely to his 


judgment. Lean also, by hearing him read, judge whe- 


ther he understands his subject, by his accenting, read- 
ing properly, and laying the emphasis on the right words. 
If he fails, I immediately suspect the translation, though 
it is not an easy matter for an ordinary reader to lay the 


emphasis properly in reading * in which _ 
is no pointing at all. | 


The new testament will make 600 pages of letter press 


in oetavo, which the printer agrees to print at one ana 


(about twopence) per sheet, and to cut a new fount of 
Sc 


ey 
4 


869 
. this purpose This is very cheap in-this eoun. 
try. The whole enpense of priating'10,000 copies, pa- 


per included,. would be near ö en that is 
e — r ee 1 


No say any „ ele woe 
be only filling up paper with a. long tedioas tale about 
myself: I therefore decline it, and only say that I bare 
daily cause to complain, yet complain in reality but 
little.. I need all the advantages of godly society- to set 
the springs in motion; yet this is a blessing of whieh | 
am nearly destitute. Brother Fountain is a comfort to 
me; but we can scarcely vary conversation so muely ag 
to. keep up its zest. ] labour in the word; pablie exer- 

eises are pleasant to my soul; though I want that apt- 
ness to converse closely about the * 6f God which 
1880 Rs ien | 


an, of Yardse, 1 8 

others, which I wrote before, will E trust give some plea- 
mire to the society, and the numerous friends of Christ 
m England; and will shew that their prayers have not 
baen in vain, while it affords encouragement to us. One 
of these persons has however entirely deserted us, viz. 
the man whose name I had forgot. I have great reason 
to: hope that the others are really converted to Christ. 
They Speak | in a savoury manner about the things of God, 
and grow in knowledge, and I trusb also in grace. 80 
great an opposition to their baptism has been stirred up, 
that I am not sure when we shall have the happiness to 
receive them as members of our communion : but hope 


- that will be the case before a very Jong time pe have 
elapsed. 


Brother Thomas labours with greater and greater vigour 
in preaching the word, and appears lively. ] have much 
Pleasure in preaching, expounding, aud trauslating. Oh 


'e 


370 


that God would graciously grant some more evident 


zuccess! The climate suits brother Fountain very well 
at present, and I hope will do, though it is the rains that 
try European constitutions, which begin about the 10th 
of June. He is alive in the things of God, and yy us 
woch. . 


That a considerable number of additional missionaries 
are necessary, I am fully persuaded; and that if some- 
thing like what I have proposed in my last letter could 
be done, it would be an incalculable advantage to the 
undertaking. This mission should be strengthened as 
much as possible, as its situation is such as may put it in 
our power eventually of spreading the gospel through 
the greatest part of Asia, and almost all the necessary 


languages may be learned here. 


I hope the failure of the African mission will teach us 
more and more : though we have always made it a point 
to avoid every word or action that looks like intermed- 
dling with politics. We haye no disposition to do it. 
And if we were at all dissatisfied, (which we are not) yet 
it is a matter of conscience with me to be submissive to 


the powers that are, for the time being: so that let my 


opinions about the best mode of government be what 
they might, yet the bible teaches me to act as a peace- 
ful subject, under that government which is established 
where providence has placed, or ever may place me; 
provided that government does not interfere in religious 
matters so as to constrain my conscience. In that case, 
I think it my duty peaceably to obey God rather than 
nen, and abide by all consequences. 


W. Cs 


— 
8 371 
— * py 


Mr. CAREY to Mr. PEARCE. 

Mudnabatty, June 1. 1797 

War is become of you; or what is the reason of 
your long silence? I have not one of your letters unan- 
swered; and, excepting one which you sent soon after 
my leaving England, which lately arrived in a box of 
books, I have not, that I recollect, received one from 
you this year. I hope you have not forgotten that there 
is such a person as W. Carey, who is now labouring in 
the jungles of Bengal.—But, seriously, I thirst for some 
continuation of your correspondence. You have pub- 
lished a sermon on baptism, preached at Leicester, but 
never sent me a single copy. I wish to put you in re- 
membrance, though I cannot doubt of the continuance 
of your friendship to me: and I wish you to remember 


that good news from a far country is like cold water to a 
thirsty soul. — : 


A pleasing event has lately taken place. A Mr. Fer- 
nandez, of the city of Dinagepore, of whom brother Foun- 
tain will give you the particulars, has lately been stirred 
up to befriend the preaching of the gospel in that city. 
We have lately been thither. We did not see any of the 
persons from whom we formerly received a letter ;* but 
Mr. Fernandez informed us that there are very many 
anxious to hear the words of everlasting life. We mean 
to try what may be done. 1 had some conversation with 
some natives there, who listened with greater attention 
than I had been used to observe; but it might arise from 
their being more intelligent persons than the people 
about Mudnabatty, who being very poor, are proportion- 
ably ignorant; yet, ignorant as they are, I find many of 
them able to explain my meaning when I speak to those 
who never heard the word before, and who in consequence 


® See Periodical Accounts, No, ili. p. 235. 


SW _ „ 


LI - 


are not able to comprehend my intention. Perhaps the 
length of time that I have preached to the people at 
Mudnabatty, every day, and the little success attending 
my labours, may induce me to think them more ignorant 
than they are in reality. Sometimes indeed I almost sink 
into guilty discouragement: but at other times I think, 

perhaps God is employing me as a pioneer to clear the 
way for some more useful person. If so, my labours will 
not be altogether useless : and this encourages me to go 
on talking, preaching, and translating. I particularly 
hope the latter may be of substantial use; and I almost 
grudge the time employed in writing letters, because it 
takes me off from my delightful work. The new testa- 
ment and pentateuch will be translated and corrected be- 
fore this reaches you; after which L intend to begin the 


psalms and Dit pins: and to take the historical parts last 
of all. e | 


. * 
2 HS * . * 


e a * 8 
— * a” 2 A . 


n 
NS PO, ES FCC 
— ; MC) A == = IS 3 = 
5 — * * TT SS + Ez - - : = 


5 * N 
23 
7 


„ 4 

ron Oh OS ESE IE 
— 4 7 7 I : 
EL —_— F<. * —_— yt £ 
7 2 1 8 = 
„ 

1 4 2 4 l * - 
SY SORE BIN Tn 


LY 


Jam fully of opinion that this mission sbould be 
strengtbened as much as possible; and that to this end 
more missionaries should be sent to us. It is impossible 
that three persons should be able so to exert themselves 
as to be conspicuous to the natives. Only imagine Eng- 
land to be in the situation of Bengal; without public 
roads, inns, or any other conveniences for travelling; 
without a post, except for the letters of the nobilityß; f 
without the benefit of printing, and absorbed in the 
monkish superstition of the 11th- century—that in this 
Situation two or three men arrive from Greenland, to 
preach the gospel to the English, and for that purpose 
settle at Newcastle-upon-Tyne—that they are under a 
necessity of labouring for a living; and have to spend 
much of their time in translating the scriptures; and you 
will be able to form some idea of our situation. To re- 
move these difficulties as much as possible, we need more 
missionaries, whom we may be able to send out to preach 
in regular rotation; while others stay at home to manage 


þ 
N 
4. 
on ft 
. 
" 


r ED Hh 
2. n „ 
8 


$73 


our domestic affairs, instruct the children, superintend 
the schools, translate the scriptures, and carry on the 
worship of God in our own neighbourhood. At present 
if one of these objects be attended to, the others must 
be neglected. | 


Your missionaries must be good men, who will not be 
intimidated at a trifle, or even at a very formidable ap. 
pearance; men of prudence and tolerably good natural 
parts. Do not be afraid of difficulties: © Whe art thou, 
O great mountain? Before Zerubbabel thou thalt become 
a plain.” Let all your efforts concentrate here : for 
though every soul in Africa or America is infinitely pre- 
cious, yet perhaps there are more heathens in Bengal 
alone than in all America put together ; besides that the 
vicinity of American heathens to American christians 
affords a further argument for your turning your whole 
attention eastward, or eastward and southward. We may 
labour long; but © the precious seed shall not be lost; 
for grace insures the crop.” 


You will be anxious to know what is become of Yar- 
dee, Doorgotteea, Sookmun, &. I answer that they till 
appear to be concerned respecting another world, though 


I have not lately heard those ardent desires expressed 


which I was witness to about six months ago. Vet I trust 
a work of divine grace is really begun; and that it will 
certainly blaze out in all the convincing demonstrations 
of the work of God on the souls of men; turning them 
from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan to 
Gad. 


Brother F. who is with me, is a great help and sup- 
port to me in my work. He is a valuable person, and 
makes very good progress in acquiring the language. I 
have no doubt but that he will be of great use to the mis- 
sion, being full of zeal for the souls who are perishing 


JJ ⅛ͤ DE EDO ß. ̃ͤöP̃ — œ———] ù qq oe Ä nt Wa A _WaY * 


2 2 > As 


974 


around us. We have a school which consists at present of 
thirteen scholars, to whom he has given gratuities owt of 
his income for their encourkgement. The school derives 
considerable advantages from his attention to it. The 
ehildren attend every morning at our house, where he 
teaches them to sing hymns; and those who are able write 
out parts of the scriptures for their exereises. I hope this 
may be attended with a blessing.. The school was dropt 
on the Moonsbi's defection; and has been set up again 
within these bwo months. It is now much more promising 
than it ever was before. Those boys whose dwellings are 
remote from us have their maintenance given them; and 
those who live near provide for themselves, and have on] y 
rewards for their eee, and minen | 


June 17. 1 suppose the preceding days of this week 
have been spent in the association of your churches' at 
Leicester. Our hearts have been with you. We have 
united with you at a throne of grace; and wizhed for a 
telegraph to convey the language of our souls to yours, 
and to receive that of yours in return. Pray send us more 
Association Letters. 


On my dear brother, bad you come in reality, when 
your mind was so intensely set upon it, methinks a greater 
happiness could not have befallen me in this life. I know 
your disposition and your zeal for the Lord Jesus so well, 
that I conclude such a help is necessary to stimulate and 
excite my languid mind to action; and such a companion 
requisite to co-operate with and tren ten me, and to ad- 
vise with me respecting the great work of our blessed Lord. 


But... the welfare of the churches, conscienee, honesty, 


reason, and J had almost said, scripture, forbid it. I must 
no more expeet to see your face, till I see you at the great 
and important day of the Lord. However, we are one: 
nor enn rolling seas interrupt that unity of heart which k 
trust we feel. We are both Jabouring in the same cause, 


6 373 

and both serving under the same Captain, only with this 
difference: you are employed in the centre of the army, 
and I am set to force an out- post of the enemy. Let us 

both be faithful unto death, and account it glorious even 
to die in so glorious a cause. But communications respect- 
ing our several motions may and will tend much to excite 
_ our diligence and valour. You, being employed in an 
active part of the battle, will have much to communicate: 
J, being in a situation where action must necessarily be 
more contracted, may perhaps have little to say till I in- 
form you of the entire conquest of the post. 


A writer in the Evangelical Magazine has given me 
much encouragement; and, according to his calculations, 
IJ am actually expecting that the next letters from Europe, 
or the next after them, at furthest, will give me an ac- 
count that Jehovah has triumped gloriously, and that 
Babylon the Great is fallen indeed. After which Maho- 
medanism cannot stand long; at which time I expect that 
the missionary spirit will greatly increase, and hosts go 
forth with the banner of the eross flying; not to subdue 
kingdoms with instruments of death, but with the words 
of everlasting life. WC 


— — — : . 


Mr. CAREY to Mr. FULLER. 


; Mudnabatty, June 22. 1797. 

Tax Polyglot Bible, Lowth's Isaiah, Malay Gospels, 
Botanical Magazines, &c., are at last arrived at Mudua- 
batty. The heat, and also the rains, which are just set- 
ting in, prevent much going out to preach at present; 
byt our congregation at home is larger, It may not be 
disagreeable to you to have an account of a conyersation 
which 1 had a little time ago with a brahman : it will 
shew you how uniform the 02 mind is in its opposi- 
tion to God, and that the very arguments used in Eng- 
land to oppose the gospel are also used in Bengal. 


376 


I was pressing upon him the necessity of believing in 
Christ for salvation ; when he asked © how it was that 
the worship of idols had been followed from'the begin- 
ning, and how it was that, according to the scripture 
itself, the worship of the debtahs* was professed through 
the whole world, except one small nation from the be- 
ginning ?” And, said he,“ If the gospel be the way of life, 
how is it that we never heard of it before?” I answered, 
God formerly © suffered all nations to walk in their own 
ways; but now commandeth all men every where to re- 
pent.” “Indeed (said he) I think God ought to repent 
for not sending the gospel sooner to us.“ T'then tried to 
convince him that God had never done injustice to men; 
and that it was his settled purpose finally to overcome 
all the power and craft of the devil. To this I added, 
Suppose a kingdom had been long overrun by the ene- 
mies of its true king, and he, though possessed of suffi- 
cient power to conquer them, should yet suffer them to 
prevail and establish themselves as much as they could 
desire; would not the valour and wisdom of that king 
be far more conspicuous in driving them out, than it 
would have been if he had opposed them at first, and 
prevented their entering the country? Thus, by the dif- 
fusion of gospel light, the wisdom, power, and grace of 
God, will be much more displayed in overcoming such 
deep-rooted idolatries, and in banishing all that darkness 
and vice which have so universally prevailed in this coun- 
try, than they would have been if all had not been suffer- 
ed to walk in their own ways for so many ages past. 


Wi. Go 


* Debtahs are idols, or supposed powerful intelligences, inferior to God, re- 
presented by images. They seem to answer exactly to the Greek word dai- 
nonion, and the character of which supposed intelligences is well described, 
according to the Hindoo notion, in Parkhurst's Greek Lexicon, under the above 
word. The Hindoos however divide them into two kinds, viz. Debta, or Soor, 
end Dytyo, or Asoor : the first signifying the Good, or Benign ; the last the. 
Bad; or Malignant Power. |; 

3D 


375 


VM. CAREY to Dr. 0 LAND. 


by n and - Modupbatty, Til 6.1, 

3 CR relating, to the state of the mission you 
will learn from my letters to brethren Füller, Pearce, &c. 
but as repeated applications have been made to me, to 
write what I observe respecting the ways and customs of 
the natives, and productions of the country, I think it 
best to write these things to one correspondent: and 
have fixed upon you for that purpose. I choose to assign 
a different subject to different persons, because 1 think it 
will prevent a tedious W in my letters. _— 


"The origin of the Hindoosi is Iost in e enen 
ble darkness; and their own accounts are too fabulous to 
be regarded. Perhaps I may be able in some measure to 
develope this subject at some future period. There are 
persons of considerable intelligence who have supposed 
that the Hill- People, as they are called, who inhabit the 
mountains to the west of the Ganges, and which are seen 
from Malda, are the Aborigines of this country, who by 
former wars have been driven into the mountainous paris 
of Bahar. Some peculiarities of these people seem to 
afford a very singular phenomenon : they are said to be 
a small people, and utterly distinct from Hindoos or 
Mussulmans, in their language, manners, and way ol 


thinking, having no cast; yet they are surrounded on 
_ side with Hindoos. | 


One cannot help remarking the similarity there is be- 
tween many of the practices of the Hindoos and the insti- 
tutions of the Levitical law. Their ideas of contracting 
uncleanness by touching a bone, a grave, a dead person, 
or any unclean animal, are uniformly very much like the 
. precepts of the law respecting these things: for after 
touching any such thing, they always bathe and change 


378 


their clothes. The cast also bears some resemblance to 
the jewish law, which required the tribes to be kept sepa- 
rate, and not to intermarry, lest they should mar their 
inheritance. Those Hindoos who have seen some parts 
of the translation uniformly declare that they approach 
much nearer to the commands of God's word than:we 
do. The distinction of the Levites from the rest of the 
people for holy purposes, and the different orders of. the 
Levites, have an affinity to the proper employment of 
the brahmans, and to the different classes of that. tribe, 
much more striking than you would imagine. The brah- 
mans are a tribe entirely separated to the maintenance of 
learning, and the performance of religious rites : but they 
are of many different orders, who are all of them attach- 
ed to the different tribes of Hindoos, and are ranked ac- 
cordingly in the society of brahmans. No one of an in- 
ferior cast can himself make any offering to their god, 
but the common people bring their offertags to the brah- 
man, who offers it to the debtah; and the offices of a 
priest, such as offering sacrifices, are not performed even 
by every brahman. So also it is not every brahman who 
is qualified to be a goroo, or teacher: this only belongs 
to certain persons, and is hereditary in their families: 


* 


and all their disciples and their posterity are reckoned as 


belonging to that teacher. The goroo attends at the 
giving a name to their children, and at their marriages. 
The former ceremony is performed in the presence of all 
their kindred; and is accompanied with boring the ear 
of the person to whom the name is given. Both these 
ceremonies are in general very expensive to them ; but a 
neglect of either is very dichonourable. It is the-work of 
the brahmans to read the Shasters ; but they are never 
permitted to cultivate the earth with their own hands. 
There is however a total difference between the Shanscrit 
language and the Hebrew; for though many of the words 
in common use seem 80 from the Hebrew, yet it is 


remarkable chat very few Shanscrit words have any aff 


- 


 _- 

nity to it. I am forming a Dictionary, Shanserit, Ben. 
galee, and Englisb, in which I mean to include all the 
words in common use. It is considerably advanced; and 
should my life be spared, I would also try to collate the 


Shanscrit with the Hebrew roots, where there is any 
Similarity between them. 


One of the first things that strikes us with respect to 
the Hindoos is their casts. The word ati, or cast, sig- 
nifies a genus, or kind ; and is originally applied to dis- 
tinguish between the different geni of animals ; it being 
inapplicable to inanimate beings, except in a figuratize 
sense. Thus the Shanscrit Grammar, called Bzezakaran, 
«& Jat: signifies a species or kind, which may be distin- 
guished by its outward appearance from every other 
kind. It will however be enquired, What distinguishes 
different men, who all wear poztous, as Brahman, Kyetra, 
Dybyggya, &c? I answer, Any animated being which 
has not three genders is a jati ; thus Brahman makes the 
femine Brahmanee, but it has no neuter. It will be fur- 
ther enquired, Whether Bhogaban, viz. God, be a cat, 
because we can say Bhogaban, Bhogabannee? To this 
the answer is, Whatever may be distinguished at first 
blush is a jati, but God is indescribable, and therefore 
he is not a jati.” The first and last of these definitions 
agree, but the other seems to be only a subterfuge. 


W. C. 


380 


Mr. CAREY to Mr. MORRIS. 


Mudnabatty, Dec. 5. 1797. 
Your very welcome letter of Jan. ult. arrived about 


a month ago, and it is needless to say that the receipt of 


it was very acceptable. It was indeed as a cheering cor- 
dial to my soul, and I shall endeavour to return some 
answer to the . you have proposed. 


To talk of continuance of friendship, and warm affec- 
tion to you, would be folly. I love you; and next to 
seeing your face, a letter from you is one of my greatest 
gratifications. I see the hand-writing, and read the 
heart of my friend; nor can the distance of one fourth 
of the globe prevent a union of hearts. 


Hitherto I have refrained from writing accounts of the 
country, because I concluded that those whose souls 
were panting after the conversion of the heathen, would 
feel but little gratified in having an account of the natu- 
ral productions of the country. But as intelligence of 
this kind has been frequently solicited by several of my 
friends, I have accordingly opened books of observation 
which I hope to communicate when they are sufficiently 
authenticated and matured. I also intend to assign a 
peculiar share to each of my stated correspondents. To 
you I shall write some accounts of the arts, utensils, and 
manufactures of the country ; to brother Sutcliff their 
mythology and religion; to brother Ryland the manners 
and customs of the inhabitants; to brother Fuller the 
productions of the country; to brother Pearce the lan- 


guage, &c.; and to the Society a joint account of the 
mission. 


The 8 shows of the Hindoos are generally pub- 
lic, and no temple that I have seen is a proper place ts 


We. 4 


381 


worship in. They are merely small houses to hold one, 
two, or more idols, which are waited on by a brahman, 
who makes daily offerings of flowers to them, and anointz 
them with mustard oil. Their great idolatrous shows on 
certain days are consecrated in the Hindoo calender to 
particular debtahs; and on these days certain of the loy. 
est people dance, and make ridiculous gesticulations be. 
fore an idol, which is fixed on a bamboo hurdle or fleak, 
Their images of the debtahs are made of a water plant, 
a 3 of che phylanthus, which is very light. 

0 Von . of certain jews having been said to reside 
at Patna, which is about two hundred miles from the 
place where I live. The first time I heard of 'these peo- 
ple was by your letter, The fact I neither affirm nor 
deny, though I doubt it for the following reasons: —(I.) 
The name of jew is unknown amongst the Hindoos, ex- 
cept Fabon, a term applied to Mussulmans, which may 
denote a jew. I have thought so; but I find the Hin- 
doos apply it, in common with the term Mussulman, to 
circumcised persons in general. Yet it appears that 
either the jews, or some other circumcised people, were 
known to the ancient Hindoos, the name Jabon being 
found in the Mahabarat before the time of Mahomed, 
—(2.) I bave conversed with several Europeans who 
Know Patna well; but have not heard any thing about 
these' jews. There is a Portuguese church and priest 
there, and many professors of obriviianity who were dri- 
ven from the Nepal country on account of professing 
Christ. However I shall make more enquiry respecting 
the jews. . | vs 


71 


I must now fulfil my promise in part, by telling you 5 
little about the arts, &c. of the Bengalese. 


The Hindoavs build their houses on each side a squate 
court which 9 the centre. All the doors of these 


re 


* 
{8 


1 
75 
3 4 * 


1 


{ur buildings open into the court; and the houses are, 
one for the wife, and other female relations; another for 
ervants,. visitors, &.; a third for a cooking-house; and 
the fourth is often a cow- house, or applied to some other 
menial purpose. The size and materials differ aceord- 
ing to the circumstances of the owners: some are brick, 
but the greatest number are built of mud, straw, or mat 
valls. The bamboo serves for almost every purpose. Of 
this the roofs are very neatly made; and however large, 
there is not a single nail in them. The spars consist of 
whole bamboos; the laths are split ones, reaching the 
length of the roof, and are tied together with packthread. 
The posts of many houses are bamboo, as are also the 
mats which compose the walls. The floors are earthen; 
raised two or three feet above the level, and smeared 
over with cow-dung, as are also the mud walls, which 
makes them look smooth and very neat. The roofs are 
in general ten or twelve feet high, and are thatched with 
long grass. They have only a ground floor; and most 
English farmers' hog-stys are more grand, though it 
must be confessed they are not quite so clean. 


* 


After speaking of their houses, it may be expected 
that I should deseribe their furniture; and indeed this is 
zoon done. All their cooking is performed in coarse un- 
glazed earthenware. A vessel called a hurry, smaller 
or larger according to the use required, is nearly of the 
form of an iron pot; and is set over the fire, either on 
bricks, (which are so contrived as that the pot may rest 
on them in three places, the rest being open to admit 
the air) or over a hole in the earth contrived in the same 
form; and this is most common, and soon prepared. 
Though the pot therefore has no feet, yet it answers the 
purpose of a tripod. Another large jug of the same 
ware serves for a bucket, and a vessel in which to keep 
water. This is called a koolsee. It holds about a gallon, 
is thin, and very cheap. In general the women are em- 


. 383 


| ployed to feich water; and that commonly in the « even. 
ing, as in the times of Abraham. They often carry tw 
of these vessels full; one resting on each hip. They have 
a small neck Thich dhe arm grasps, and a large bell, 
but no handle. A small brass vessel called a {ota, nearly 
In the form of the above, and containing about a pint 
and half, is in most houses. In this they keep mill, 
water, or any liquid; and upon certain occasions, thi 
vessel full of water is carried with them for the FER 
of cleanliness, 


A Soca; or smoking tube, is so necessary an article 
that no one is without it. During all the time of ny 
having been here, I have found only one person who 
does not smoke tobacco, Hookas are differently formed, 
The sort used by Europeans, and a very few of the high- 
est natives, has been described by brother Thomas, in 
his account of Mohun Chund.* A smaller kind, called 
a goorgooree, with a metal bottom and short crooked 
tube, is more common. But the one in most common 
use is made of a cocoa nut-shell, with a hole in the top, 
and another small one in the side. A wooden tube, 
about a foot long, is fixed into the hole at the top; and 
a chillum, viz. a small earthen vessel like the bowl-of a 
tobacco-pipe, is fixed in that. This contains the tobaceo 
and fire. The cocoa nul-shell is half filled with water, 
the mouth is applied to the hole in the side, and the 
tobacco-smoke drawn through the water. They have 
also a large wooden mortar, which, turned upside-down, 
serves for a stool; and in this mortar the rice is sepa- 
rated from the huak, with a wooden pestle. This arli- 
cle, however, is only in a few houses. 


Except a piece of sackcloth for a bed, and a pillow 
stuffed with cotton, the common people have no other 


See Periodical Accounts, No. i. p. 23, 


384 


furniture z and many not this. Some who can afford it 
have a bedstead made of bamboo, and laced'with;pack+ 
thread : this bedstead is called &{ga/, and the packthread 
cotly. Some havea metal dish to eat off; but the greatest 
number have only a plantain leaf, or a leaf of the water 
lily, »ymphea nelumba. Others have brass pots for. cook- 
ing, in the form above described; called bohagnee; and 
rich people have a large one with a spout, called jharree, 
used to wash the feet; hands, &c. The Mussulmans have 
them of copper, and then they are called budunee. The 
Mussulmans drink out of these vessels, a thing never done 
by the Hindoos. Brahmans and Kaesto's have spDOs of 
copper without handles, of different sizes, somewhat. like 
an English butterboat. These are only used in worship 
to take up water. Their lamps, called predeess,-or by the 
Persian name cherag, are small earthen vessels like an 
oyster-shell, but rather deeper: /Phese are filled with mus- 
tard-oil, and à piece of cloth rolled up forms the wiek; 


one end of which:lies over the brim, and is lighted, They 


burn no candles; and indeed we have er- light but 
what 1 lamps afford. has 3 LL0TBIRR el gut 
1:4 wow F950) Wo th BORns. 
chall not conclude without adnerivid their dyes; 
which is as follows. Labouring men wear only a small 
piece of eloth about a foot wide} and vottwo'feetÞ6hg. 
Axtring runs through the top, whitÞ ties rbùnd ine Waist. 
The cloth falling behind, is brought forwards between 
the legs, and passed under the string before, Where abbut 
balf a foot hangs down in the form of ati apron. In the 
hot weather: the poor wear scarcely any thing'else; but 
in the cold weather they get a coarse piece of cotton 


cloth, such as would make shirts in England, which is 


thrown over the shoulders and wrapped tobad the body. 
With many this is coat in the morning and evening, and 
turban in the warm part of the day. Though many of 
the poor suffer with cold at this season, yet some of them 
are able to get two pieces, one of which is thrown round 


3 


7 K 8 
; 

- - by - 
LU - 


2 


p l Y * 
5 F . n S N 
; P 5 . _+ K 3 
: 2 ” — bags 7 * 3 r F : = Ws ;4 * 1; 43+" 24292 ar pu 1 
n ran = = SEE 43.5 * 962i... oor EI TEC LO- 45 7 
EEE ͤ ed * N an” SS. 
, R SW _ = OF a — 
— * - - \ 0 = = 
DS: - - N _ > „ 


— pp * 
Faire 4. + ot x LR = . 
- F * 2 r 8 SI. 
&% 1 „ fn et — 
* <4 4” 4 4 LEY : 
„ 4a ow „„ — + : % 


| | 385 | 
the body and the other wrapped about the head. The 
turban is Mussulmans dress, as also the jamma, jacket, 
breeches, and some other articles, though adopted by 
many Hindoos. Poor Mussulmans also dress in the Hin. 
doo manner. Instea« of the breeches above mentioned, 
or rather piece of cloth which serves as a substitute, 
many, and especially the higher people, have a larger 
piece of cloth without the string, which is wrapped round 
the waist and tucked in in the manner of a child's eloth, 
Mussulmans, and many Hindoo servants who imitate 
them, have a jamma, resembling a coat and petticoats, 
made of fine cotton, with shawls thrown over their shoul- 
ders, and muslin turbans. Those who wear shoes, or 
rather slippers, put them off when they come into the 
. N of cr nds as ee do _ hats. 


The Waben of the women differs from that of the men 
in this, the cloth is wrapped round the waist, and hangs 
down like a petticoat, and the other end is thrown over 
the shoulders; In this part of the country the only cover- 
ing is sackcloth, wrapped round above the breasts, and 
hanging down just below the knees. This is all, except 
unn which are numerous. 


| The: men wear e called mala, a ag in one eat, 
some other ornament generally on one arm, one or two 
rings of silver or gold on the fingers; and often one or 
two more on the toes. The women full dressed wear a 
large gold ring in the nose, reaching down to the mouth; 
a silver necklace and wristband; also a similar band 
round the ancles, with several other rings on the fingers. 
The poorest sort of people have those for the wrists and 
ancles made of brass; and those of the Mussulman women 
are often made of the milky juice of the cus religiosus, 
which is coagulated by cold, and formed into many arti- 
cles. The people who wear brass make a noise in walk- 
ing like prisoners in their irons. 


886 
I need not inform you that the people of this country 
have dark skins. They however differ very much in that 
particular, some being nearly as white as an English 
gipsy, and others nearly as black as negroes. Their shape 
is slender, their constitution weakly, their size somewhat 
less than that of Europeans. Their eyes and hair are 
black, their features good, and much like those of Euro- 
peans. The Mussulmans shave all the hair from their 
crown, and many of them from the whole head. The 
Hindoos leave a small quantity upon the crown, which 
is tied, or rather platted into a tail, or tied in a bunch on 
the top of the head. The men shave all the hair from the 
arm-pits; and most people anoint themselves daily with 
mustard-oil just before they bathe, 'which is about the 
middle of the day; and in the hottest season twice a day, 
J have also adopted the practice of bathing in the river 
every day, and have found it to contribute to my health 
more than any thing else. | | 


[ 8end you a brahman's poiton, which is the distin- 
guishing mark of the brahmanie order. It is a congeries 
of threads, which is constantly worn, passed over one 
shoulder and under the other arm, hanging down from 
the neek. The investment of young brahmans with this 
is a great ceremony, which I hope at some future time 
more particularly to describe. | 


W.C. 


387 


* * yn 5 
{+ * 1 11 344 3 [4 14 117 9 £ 


Mezsrs. CAREY and FOUNTAIN to the SOCIETY. 


Gi — ty 

25 Til ee er kindred minds is like to that 
above.“ But notwithstanding we are'now'the children 
of God, and love as brethren, vet our Father's busines 
requires that here we should be scattered abroad. It is 
his eternal and gracious purpose that “the gentiles (in 


whose situation we once were) should be fellow- heirs, 


and of the same body, and partakers with us of the pro- 
mise in Christ by the gospel“ A knowledge of this pro- 
mise, however, and a participation of its blewings, can 
only be conveyed by the publication of the gospel; f 
which purpose we were sent hither. Brethren, we e 
it no small matter that to us“ is this grace given.” You 
in sending, as well as we in coming, have shewn a desire 
of being “ workers together with God.” - You have the 
same encouragement as ourselves to persevere. * Your 
labour shall not be in vain in the Lord.” 


Amongst the similitudes used in the scriptures to re- 
present a minister's work, that of husbandry seems the 
best adapted to comfort our minds and inspire our hopes. 
In that occupation of life it is frequently seen that * one 
soweth and another reapeth ;” yea, it seldom happens 
that he who casteth in the seed gathereth in the harvest. 
In this wilderness, brethren, your missionaries have been 
labouring for four years: a wilderness where nothing has 
yet grown but the most rank and poisonous weeds, 
Breaking up uncultivated ground, rooting up its native 


EE ES! ie” a So - MM. - a 


388. 


productions, #nd'sowing the good seed, have heen cheit 
constant employment. Though but little fruit yet appears 
| they must not desist from their labours, © The husband- 
man waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath 
loug patience for it, until he receive the early and the 
latter rain,” When the holy Spirit shall be, poured out 
from on high, this wilderness shall become a fruitful field. / 
A great harvest was gathered in by the apostles of our 
Lord; but it was observed to them, that they © reaped. 
that whereon they bestowed no labour.“ The prophets 
went before them, and afforded -examples of patience. 
Century after century they laboured and toiled; but 
gathered no fruit. Their eyes ran down with tears, their 
hearts heaved With sighs ; and sometimes they were ready 
to think that they had laboured in vain, and spent their 
strength for nought. From the writings they left behind 
them it appears that some of them were at times ready 
to faint and decline! But reflecting that it was the work 
of the Lord; they persevered till death: They rested 
from their labours, and their works have followed them.” 
Some of you who are ministers may be reaping from the. 
labours of your predecessors, and all of you may be sou- 
ing for a harvest to be reaped by your successors : and so 
it may be with us. Of this however we are assured, that 
when the last universal harvest shall be gathered in, 
sowers and reapers shall rejoice together. | 


4 Upon the whole, we think our prospect more pleasing 
e than it has been at any preceding period. There are more 
. hearers of the word, greater attention is paid to it, and a 
; great door is just now opened for the entrance of it into 
: the metropolis of this distriet. We earnestly entreat you 
: to follow up what you have begun. Embrace presenting 


prospects. Enter the door opening by your God and 
. Saviour, Think how many and great are the Agialic 


389 


nations lying contiguous to each other; all of them a5 
morally dark as the world itself naturally was 


« Ere the infant sun 
Was roll'd together, or had tried his beams 
Athwart the gloom profound,” 


| What could three ministers do even in England, sup. 
posing it were now as dark as when Cæsar first discoverd 
it? Supposing them also to have the language to learn, 
before they could converse with any one; and after that 
the scriptures to translate, and to transcribe with their 
own hands: and, this being done, to have no other method 
of communicating them but merely by preaching: print. 
ing unknown, and but here and there one who could 
write! This, brethren, is a picture of our situation. 4 
Situation which we trust will interest your attention, and 
prompt you to send many over to help us. We are learn- 
ing Bengalee: we want others to learn Hindostanee; 


others Portuguese; others Persian; others Boutanee, 
&c. 


We wish you also to understand that we have not lost 
our concern for the western world, by being stationed in 
the east. Nothing can occur that would be uninteresting 
to us. A gentleman, to whom the cause of God is dear, 
has just lent us the Evangelical Magazine for 1796, and 
some accounts of the London Mission Society; and we 
behold with joy inexpressible the mighty acts of the 
Lord! Our Jesus now appears with his“ name written 


on his vesture and on his thigh, King of kings and Lord 
of Lords.” 


2 
We are glad also to find such a number of places open- 
ed in England for the reception of the gospel ; that vil- 


** e> =24 


390 


lage preaching is 80 greatly encouraged and blessed; that 
ministers glow with zeal and churches with love. 


America, we are happy to hear, has caught the mis- 
zionary flame. Just before the news arrived, we were 
speaking about it, and wishing that the brethren there 
would bestir themselves: not thinking that while we were 
speaking their missionaries had gone forth. Surely the 
knowledge of the Lord must soon cover the earth! 


We desire that our love and our thanks may be trans- 
mitted to dur brethren in Scotland. And now, dear bre- 
thren, we must close. Brother Thomas is absent, other- 
wise he would have joined us herein; but we suppose you 
will hear from him by the ships of this season.“ 


W. C. 
1 


Mr. FOUNTAIN to Mr. FULLER. 
Nludusbatty, Dec. 9. 1797, 


My last to you was dated June 3, along with which 
[ sent one to brother Sutcliff,: dated May 10, and hope 
they were both received. Since then I have been very 
ill, indeed nigh unto death; but the Lord hath had 
mercy on me, and raised me up again. So afflictive a 
season as this last has been, from the latter end of Sept. 
to the present time, has scarcely ever been known. There 
is hardly a village to be found in which there are not six 
or eight persons dying weekly : and our Moonshi has not 


* NB. No letters from Mr, Thomas have arrived. 


891 


been able to give us any assistance these two month 
past. An additional calamity. is scarcity,of water. We 
have had but few showers during the usual season of rain, 
The taoks, from which the people are supplied with water, ” 
are drying: up, 80 that, they have nothing to dripk but a 
litile offensive puddle, Much: of their rice too is burgt 
up for want of moisture. Thus is the Lord's hand lifted 
up, but the inhabitants of the land see it not. 


You will be anxious to know what is doing in India; 
and whether any considerable number of. these poor tribes 
have received the gospel. It would gladden my heart a 
much as years to say, yes; but, this is a joy which we do 
not at present realize; Yet. amidst all our discouragements 
we have not only promises but appearances to keep up 
our hopes. 

A gentleman of Dinagepore, of the name of Fernande;, 
has lately heard our preaehiug, and generously erected a 
brick place of worship in that city, for the purpose of in- 
troducing the gospel to the inhabitants. He was born in 
the island of Macao, on the east of China, of Portuguese 
or Italian extraction, I am not certain which, and was 
educated for a Roman Catholic priest; but being shock- 
ed, as he says, at the worship of images, he began to ex- 
amine; and the more he examined, the more he was in- 
clined to protestant principles, and so gradually relin- 
quished the church of Rome. He came from Macao to 
Bengal two-and-twenty years ago. Just before my ar- 
rival in this country he heard of brother Thomas, and by 
means of a friend requested some books for the purpose 
of religious instruction. Brother Thomas sent him Bishop 
Newton on the Prophecies, &c. &c. As soon as I went 
to Moypaul he informed me of these circumstances ; and 
in a few days time Mr. Powell and myself went over to 
pay him a visit. We spent two pleasant days with him. 


1 
We 
ain. 
ter, 
ut a 
Irnt 


* 


392 


We read, prayed, and explained several parts of scripture, 
at his request. He came to Moypaul and,spent the next 
sabbath with us; at which time he heard the first gospel 
sermon that he ever heard in his life. He often talks to 
the natives; and being of a communicative disposition, he 
has much contributed to prepossess the Hindoos at Dina- 
gepour with favourable sentiments of the gospel; On the: 
first Lord's day in November the place of worship there 
was opened-by brethren Carey, Thomas, and myself, and 
the service was conducted in the manner following At 
$ o'clock in the morning I began by reading and singing 
the 132d psalm, c. M.; after which I read the 49th of 
IsRiah, prayed, and gave out the 419th hymn, Appendix 
“ Father is not thy promise pledged, &c.” After this 
brother Carey preached from Luke ii. 10,“ Behold, I 
bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all 
people.” Gave out and sung the 55th bymn, Appendix, 
and concluded in prayer. A great number of the natives 
having afterwards assembled, (amongst whom were the 
heads of the place, the Rajah's servants, &c.) Brother 
Thomas preached to them from 1 Tim. i. 15: © This is 
a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that 
Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners.“ In 
this service we sung three hymns in Bengalee, In the 
afternoon they assembled again, and brother Carey dis- 
coursed from 1 John iii, 8: © For this purpose the Son of 
God was manifested, that he might destroy the works of 
the devil.” The hearers paid great attention. In the 
evening brother Thomas preached to us in English. We 
then agreed that one or the other of us should go over to 
preach on the first Lord's day in every calendar month. 
Last Lord's day being the first in December, brother 
Carey and I were there a second time. After worship was 
over a brahman and another Hindoo brought a number 
ot curious questions, to which answers will be returned; 
and both questions and answers transmitted by brother 
Carey to England, | | 
| Sx 


2 , 1 o 4, F . 
F 
* „ SQL 3 * 2. 
8 1 4 _ 


* — 
n 
2 


ial 393 

4 Ai home we have a pretty good congregation every 

3 Lord's day; and every morning brother Carey reads and 

4 expounds to twenty persons or more. Our first school- 

A master, as I mentioned above, is dead; but we have pro- 

A eured another, and the school goes on tolerably well. 

4 The ignorance that prevails amongst the people in gene. 

% ral is distressing to behold ! Having no books, they can. 

Io not learn to read till they begin to write ; and even then 

=_ they learn nothing but a few servile flattering terms, and 

\ = the names of their detestable deities! How ardently do 

3 I wish that the lovers of religion and learning in Eng. 

= land, could picture to their minds what daily presents 

= itself to our eyes; and that this whole country in return 

=. for the riches with which it furnishes England might be 

4 enriched with the knowledge of God! 

=. I have only now to add, that Mr. Fernandez (the gen- 
= tleman above mentioned) wishes you to send him forty WE 
8 2 pounds worth of books from England. We have in- 
= elosed a list for your direction. Such a number of es- 
"= cellent books in this part of the world may prove a las- 
+8 ing blessing! i 
—_ Mr. CAREY to Dr. RYLAND. I 
3 3 Mudnabatty, Dec. 19. 1797 t 
8 * In translating the Psalms I met with a few critical WW 
—_— difficulties which I wish to submit to your judgment. 1 
bs 6. | Psalm xli. 8. An evil disease cleaveth to him. Eg. We 
_—_— Trans. I have followed Parkhurst, who renders DeBaR We 
_—_—_ 3 
1 4 


— * 
4 F 4 
* = * 4 \ _ * 
: A 1 — * * 3 . 
C A YOON Rr 
3 F 8 ; 


„ an 


394 


BeLiJa*aL Ja TZ UK BO, a heinous aceusation is * 
out upon him. Is this right ? 


Psalm xlv. 5, Thine arrows are sharp in the hearts 
of the King's enemies, whereby the people fall under 
thee. Heb. Thine arrows are sharp, the people fall 
under thee, in the hearts of the enemies of the King. 
Query. Is it not as unreasonable to suppose an ellipsis 
in the last member, as to make so great a transposition 
as in the common translation? I have supposed it to 
read best in the following manner : © Thine arrows are 
charp; the people fall under thee ; thine arrows strike 
into the hearts of the enemies of the king. I wish for 
your thoughts.“ 


Verse 9. The queen in gold of Ophir, BeKeTHeM 
OPHIR. Parkhurst says KeTHeM means gold stampt 
to witness its purity. It cannot therefore be an orna- 
ment made of gold thread, or a vesture of gold, but 
ornaments of that metal which are profusely worn, and 
more regarded than clothing in the East: I have there- 
fore translated it © adorned with gold of Ophir.' 


Psalm Ix. 2. Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, 
God hath shined. Is Zion or God here called the per- 
tection of beauty ? 


Verse 18. Thou didst consent with him. Translators 


have differed in the root whence they derive the word 


rendered © consent,' VaTiReTZ. Some derive it from 
RaTZaH he willed, consented, acquiesced ; others from 
RuTZ, to run. 1 have followed the LXX and others, 


in translating it, © thou didst rum with him.“ 


* Michaelis's translation of this passage seems preferable. * Thine arrows 
are sharp; the people beneath thee shall fall, who in heart were the encinies 
of the king.” Compare instances of a similar phraseology in Psalm xvii. 9, 

* Enounes in mind; Ezek. xxv. 6, 15, © With all thy spite of mind.“ J. R. 


7 
© h WON, OS 
i * * 2 5 
— L J n 
I N 
* y = 1 p 
OT 1 . 5 9 
Tb vo} Ts * al 
— 8 *. = 
TY 3 ER, 
7 b 
2 Soy N 2 1 
93 WS * A is 
1 2 * 8 Rl 2 
ay ee == 1 
82 e Drs 


. * — 1 — * : - 
K — ey. a 25 = =. 1 = * 2. 2 
> REL Sn Fol — 5 - E — —— 2 * - 1 T 8 


CITY = FEET, => 


7 


8 Fs 
Np E CT 
— xt 32+ 


FA 


8 
1 395 
| i 1 Psalm liv. 7. Mine eye hath seen his desire upon mine 
1 enemies. Heb. Mine eye hath looked on mine enemies, 
4 * Why did the English translators supply his desire? 
$1 J Do they mean God's desire, or the Psalmist's? If the | 
1 latter, why not its desire? | 
i 4 Psalm Iv. 9. Divide their tongues. There are eye. 
ral words which cannot be rendered literally into Ben- | fr 
8 galee. Divide their tongues would signify literally, a 
5 * split their tongues,” viz. as boys do magpyes'. I have WM. 
: 1 rendered it divide their words,” 1. e. their opinions rt d 
5 4 consultations. This is a very common Bengalee idiom. a 
4 A Also“ flesh, when applied to mean either frazlty, or sen- 
Þ 4 sua desires, cannot be literally rendered, for the term 
2 2 flesh in this language will furnish no other idea than 
= 8 that of animal flesh. I have always rendered such words 5 
. f 4 so as to convey the original idea as nearly as I could. TT 
| Psalm lix. 9. Because of his“ strength I will wait | | 


upon thee. This sentence has been peculiarly puzzling, Ap 
The word SHaMaR almost always means to keep, watch | 
over, or preserve : hence a watch, watchman, &. Many 
of Poole's critics render it thus, though some have 
rendered it waz/, because they could not otherwise make 
sense of the clause. Taylor makes mention of four places 
in which it means to wait, viz. Num. iii. 10. Prov. vill, 
34. XXVii. 18. Zech. xi. 11. The first does not appear 
to include waiting or expectation, but is rendered cus0- 
dient. The last is rendered by some, that kept the flock 
with me,” and the other two are rendered by many, cus- 
todiet, Neither Pike, Parkhurst, nor Taylor, suppose the 
word to mean to expect, or to include wailing, except as 


Five Mss. in Kennicot read UZZI instead of UZZO, and two more probe 
bly agree with them; i. e. my strength, instead of thy strength; “ because 
is supplied. The Jargum or Chaldee Paraphrase, the LX X, aud Vulgate agree 
with this; and the Syriac, Ethiopic, and Arabic, scem to have read àZaMMe— 
Rall, I will sing, not eSHMoRaH, I will keep, here rendered wait, Thus the 
verse would read, O my strength, unto thee will Ising; for God is wy re- 


fuge.“ J. R. 


bs CARDS nb, | 


2 9 q TL * 
r N 5 . 
* WL 8 5 
* wel sf Is of 
oe TY. SED ns 44 
2 2 3 $ 
ET — 9 
Lon 4 
8 bh 
a Ns * 
— 8 
nr we Io 
3 ar” 2d 
* EF 
[3 w * 
* TORR 
*« 5 


396 


a watchman does. Yet I have followed the English, but 
am not satisfied with it. 


[ have been thus particular because I consider the im- 
portance of having the translation as just as possible. If 
an individual draws wrong conclusions, or false doctrines 
from scripture, they may be refuted or corrected by re- 
curring to the words of scripture itself: and even a false 
translation in a country like England could not be pro- 
ductive of lasting mischief, because the Hebrew scrip- 
tures may be ee and the error detected: but here 
a mistake would be like poison at the fountain head. 


This has been a very afflictive season throughout the 
country. Brother Fountain has been dangerously ill of 
a fever ; but God had merey on him, and on me also. 
Our school- master died of the same disorder; and I have 
hardly had a servant about the factory able to assist me 
in any part of the business. Such a season has scarcely 
ever been remembered. The city of Moorsheda bad has 
been nearly depopulated. Through much merey I have 
been preserved in health, and my whole family also; 
though I have undergone fatigues too great for my 


strength; and though very unfruitful, vet I trust I have 


not been al together idle in the work of the mission. 


W. C. 


: 
SN IE ESR 
ED 2 


A 2 Wane 3 _—_——_ = EET «4 
EST, 2 2 8 — REELS 


Seen 


M2 Ez, 
* 


2 
= 


AG x 
AERIE 2 


ee 1 
oc. * 2 
=” * 


En 
—— 
= 


— 


545 * FW 
= _ | © I 84 + — 
4 e E 
8 ES ä 7. + < ty 
* 3 - : 1 


> 5+ 


£ Ta — 3 4 
Eat 
_ EB 


+. oo Ver IA - 44 
* . E 
Fe I. B 


OE T7 0 


9 


8 
„ : — 


3 — 


= . — — A — 


N 
{A 


r= 


0 
34 
bs 
ThE ER boos ST i He hes, Y 
55 : + — oO Fry, ES "25, 2.3%, Pr 2 > OO - a, 
>: : : 2 of Sn * l 22 26 1 A = - n+ bes = $I win : — — 5 
4 : $6.8 .- ys —— N 12 ** 2 4 3 FF — N —— nn hr - ASS» 
" + DE 3 3 os 8 2 £ 2 - 5 N ——— 1 * 5 8 
an 4 - 7 *...” \b% 
22 "4 a p 'L es: — I 1 - \ 
22 N 0 es 2 > 8. Log an an — — r * p * 4 Z 
Rn — 3 r Ty «0 _—44 
2 * „ 6+, WAS 
S * En . 
* * 


r 
4 - 


3 * 


2 
Ga. NES. "T4 
e A DYE 
— 4 oh 


Re 4X3 
a. BY 
= 


e 


8 

4 
4.4 

J 
0 a 

by 4 
14 

of I 

I» 1 
q 

. J 

7 

us 

\ : 
198 

* 
j 


Mr. CAREY to Mr. FULLER. 


Mudnabatty, Jan. 1. 179%, 


A LETTER FOUNDERY has lately been set up at 
Calcutta for the country languages, and I think it will 
be cheaper and better to furnish ourselves with types for 
printing the bible in this country, than to have them 
cast in Europe. I hope we may be able to set up a press 
at Mudnabatty, and that the work may be conducted 
under our inspection. Mr. U Strongly recommends 
the printing of the Persian Pentateuch and Gospels con- 
tained in the Polyglott; and as multitudes of the higher 
classes of people in India are wel] acquainted with that 
language, it being quite the French of the East, I think 
it may be of great advantage.“ By setting up a press 


we shall be able to publish many little religious tracts 


in Bengalee which may be circulated through the 
country; though all must be given away at the be- 


ginning. 
January 9. 


I have been going to and fro ever since the last date, 
when I was at Malda. Yesterday I returned from Dina- 
gepore, distant from Malda 64 miles, where I preached 
to the Bengal natives, and also to the principal European 
inhabitants. Things in that city wear an encouraging 
aspect. I met with much kind and respectful treatment 
from several English gentlemen of distinguished charac- 
ter in this country, as well as from our worthy friend Mr. 
Fernandez. 


* This translation is considered by many learned men in Europe as by 
correct, which has been intimated io Mr. Cargy, 


Hy 


398 


The prospect among the natives is more encouraging, 
Our school prospers; and I trust there is some revival 
amongst the religious Europeans in this neighbourhood. 
have written to Mr. Swartz at Tanjore, but have no 
answer yet: he is farther from us than Rome is from 
you. 


intended giving you a larger account of the natural 
productions of this country, but at present must conclude 
with only mentioning a few, and those of the vegetable 
kind; for I have not had sufficient leisure to examine 
animals properly. I am however preparing some ac- 
counts of them which I hope to send you. 


The fruits of India, so far as my observations extend, 


fall far short of those in Europe, except a very few kinds, 


both as to quantity and flavour. 


1. Mangifera Indica : the Mango. This is perhaps 
the finest fruit in the world. There are many kinds, as 
of apples in Europe. In the southern parts of India they 
are said to be very bad. The best of all are in the neigh- 
bourhood of Malda. The tree is as large as an English 
apple-tree, and the ſruit varies from the size of a pear- 
plumb, to the size of a lare apple. It is shaped some- 
what like a plumb, with a stone in the middle. This is 
the most common fruit in Bengal, and is in perfection 
from May to August. The Bengal people call it ambra, 


Or aum. 


2. Artocarpus Integrifolius, Lin. : called by the natives 
of this country the Kuttal ; by Europeans the Jakes, or 
vulgarly the Jack-fruit, This is much eaten by the na- 
tives, though very seldom by Europeans. The fruit when 
large is two or three feet long, and a foot and half in cir- 
cumference, The outside is 12 than the coarsest 
rasp. Its smell is like very rank Cheshire cheese, and 


5 
4452 
l # 
> x 
1 1 * 7 
mY. 2 
1 EBV 
"IX br 
y x 
. z — 
** bis => 2 
* 8s 4g l ; by - 
(+: mt - ow. 
i t 
1 "* 5 
14 g Ty 
2 * 2 T 
{8 +. 2 < 
* IN 1 * 
r., 1 
wh 1 » FS 
8 + a8 4 
+ "= 4 
7-56-28 9 * 
4-4 3 Y 
= _ * 7 *. Fa 
68S 11 5 
7 i = = 
= = | be” 
1 An 
fg RT þ » ny 
4 — = Bo 
e Fr 
N N W 9 
i Wi 1 1 
178 ** TY 
r * 
| "hw 
_- = 
4132804 * * 
by KV W% \ I l 
_ = 
3; 8 15 
14 Who 
—_— . 
e 28 
W - ** 
1 N 
4 3 8323 U [is 
10 ay 2 
.. IS 
17 | ATA 
2 . 14 HF 
| "wh 2 4 
4,5. "Res 
*: 3 
4 ' 
6 * { 
4 N "6 *M 2 We 
' Kut 
þ — 1 | 
oi IJ * E. 
3 "No 
PE: x 
3 » - 
4 423848 
#4; » — 
1 * i » 
vY 
*F 


* + 42> 7 
1 
i 


1 a ” 
* 
— 


+ Hat 
— A 
= 


__y 
EW. 


2 = of 2 
x — — 
3 


73 3 
* * 
1 
"I 
£5 Ko 
7 

Ms | © 
4-8 *8 
- 8 
, 2 

3 


* 

— ISL 
r 
FT 


— * 

r at + oo 
rer * 
_ by 


r 
n 
wh” 
W 
* 
* * * 


* a. >; 


I 
Tr — 


— boo 
2 * y p< 
£ 52-36 as 


— 


2 * Jet 8 * 
7 Sy : *. + * 


— 
— — — 
2 


FL 3 
Fat * 
i, — * 


F 


* 


: f — > __ * 4 2 9 4 A Z = N l = - = \ 
JD + 2 * 7 * — 4 _— TI. FILLER — ä N i A” - LEST x = FY — | _ =_ —_ - =_ = = _ 
, By — 3 — 3 . — ih 1 . > A k & = , by Y p 2 _ 
REES. — p E n 2 . * x bag ö «455th i W ——_ - : 1 - N * K 4 Pa” Me +" * ä : — N 
7 — 7 x Ry —_— 0 Do 8 . Let x 8 p * * - . 4 - 4 „ « S S TT * 8 
tp Cont GA, «wp POINT oe. SY» bans 4 i <A * 8 R . N 4 4 ARC oo au * 8 . ates wes 3 r -Y C N ws ST 1 
* 9 * R 2 + 2 * 2 * * : "» © FP. > 5 C — 1 U 2 ISS 4 * 3 2 BY; 1 — 5 3 
5 * * FO os I) q * b "FP 3 en - 2 N e N — & . A 22 — * n 38 . HE r rr) 3 r x 902 $ n 2 
— - n if a A * 7 K re. Mon O "II 9 3 N 2 3 9 — r 2 
* 2 N 4 3 5 . . 2 y 


_ 1 18 0 

— 2 = 

r * * 6 * 
— 1 


iN 


3 
\ x | 
Vi 


£ 
* 
my 

18 


ö 
"<q 


tastes like rancid honey. It is full of seeds of the size of 
the largest sort of kidney beans, and which are tolerah] 


good when fried. I suppose a large fruit will weigh from 


forty to sixty pounds. It grows out from the trunk of the 
tree on very strong foot-stalks, and ripens when the 
mango's do. The tree is the size of an apple-tree, The 
wood has a beautiful grain, and makes good furniture, 
Another sort of Artocarpus, called in this country burml, 
and dowee, produces a/ good fruit, of a pleasant acid, 
The bread fruit, Artocarpus encisus, is of this genus, 
which I have my at Mudnabatty. ; 


8. — 7 the 8 called by the natives Koll. 
Of this there are many kinds. The stalk is perfectly her. 
baceous, and may be cut down with a knife, though it is 
often as thick as a slender man. It grows about sixteen 
feet high, and produces a large bunch of fruit, after 
which that stalk dies, and others spring up. This fruit 
is produced all the year, and tastes something like a 
pear. 


4. Psidium guava: the guava. The tree is of the size 
of the largest hazel nut-tree. Its leaves are like those of 
the cherry-tree. The blossoms and fruit resemble the 
apple, full of small hard seeds. This is a good fruit, but 
not yery plentiful. 


5. Annona reliculala : the custard-apple. The tree 1s 
about the size of a Guava tree. The fruit is inclosed in 
a hard peel which is reticulated ; and the pulp tastes like 
a custard, whence its name is derived. 


6. Punica granata : the pomegranate. This is well 
known in England, and needs no description. 


7. Averrhoa carimbola : the komrunga. A good fruit, 
but sour; the size of a common plumb, with five or six 


ac 


$t; 


* — — 


e of 


bly 
rom 
the 
the 
The 
Ire, 
ral, 
did. 


us, 
la, 
t 1s 


ter 


400 


:cute angles, and grows on a beautiful tree, the size of a 
standard peach-tree, with pinnated leaves. 


8. Hypericum pomiferum, so called by Dr. Roxburg: 
the cheeralo. A beautiful tree of the size of the cherry- 
tree. The fruit nearly as large as an apple, very acid, 
and when eaten before it is ripe exudes a very yellow 


Juice, 


9. Tamarindus indicus: the tamarind. It grows wild, 
is a large and beautiful tree, with the leaves very finely 
pinnated. The shade is so cool, that the natives seldom, 
sleep under it, accounting it unhealthy. The wood of it 
makes excellent fuel, but is good for nothing else. 


Besides these may be reckoned Bromelio ananas : the 
pine apple, which grows in neglected places, as well as 
in gardens; the Eleocarpus, or jolpie of the Hindoos, 
much like an olive but which produces no oil; the Eu- 
genia sambolifera, or jamba; the Eugenia alba; the Eu- 
genia ambaynensis; the rose apple, which is another spe- 
cies of Eugenie; and the Rhamnus jujuba, or boir, the 
fruit of which is somewhat like a bullace, but worse. To 
these may be added the Carica papayc, or Papaya, a 
large fruit somewhat like a melon, which grows on a tree 
that is sometimes nearly twenty feet high; the . Cocog 
nuciferum, or cocoa nut; the Borasso flabelliformis, or fan 
palm, or Palmyra, the fruit of which is sometimes eaten; 
the Phenix dactylifera, or date, commonly called the 
toddy tree. The dates in this country are not good to 
eat, being almost all stone; but the sap of the tree pro- 
cured by incision is toddy, which will ferment, and if 
drunk in any quantity it inebriates. This is used instead 
of yeast to leaven bread, but is seldom drunk except upon 
the coast. The Noay, or Hurry phol, is a fruit the size 
of a gooseberry, and grows on a tree resembling the ash. 


We have also citrons, limes, and shaddocks ; but oranges 
'3G 


3 4 a 1 . — — — ä 8 p 
3 3 : —- -— —_ >, — a N : =. © —— — * 5 + i r — 5 3 
1 . — - — : = 2 8 — x0 x * 5 — eu © — J * 
bf — = 5 p - — 2 2 wy 7 7 9 — 5 FE N * R — 3 ; 2 7 
, 3 . —— hk : 5 * . — — 2 8 * 32 5 IP r IT OR. 
5 ow as me. Nv pg 5 - Ct ern 2» p * —— x # LY n - 204 22. "ney x gp a#. — 2 — „ 8 —— * 
r 7E LET bn * h F ˙—— = 72 2 
9 — l Sa” " TL 8 = 2 8 | ; 1 
— 1 
* — * * 


401 


4» not grow to, perfection in Bengal. We hw them 
from Boutan, Assam, and the neighbouring hill- countries, 
Several Chinese fruits also thrive well here, as the Leetch, 
sinensis, Wampee sinensis, and Mesphilus japonica; or the 
teetehe, wampee, and loquat: also the Chinese pear and 
plumb. Apples are very small, about as large as goose. 
berries ; and the trees, if ten or twelve feet high, are ac. 
accounted luxuriant. We have a fruit called Taporeca, 
peaches, and a few walnut-trees, originally from Boutan, 
Vines do not thrive. Seeds of sour apples, pears necta- 
rines, plumbs, apricots, cherries, gooseberries, currants, 
Strawberries, or raspberries, put loose into a box of dry 
sand, and sent so as to arrive in September, October, 
November, or December, would be a great acquisition, as 
is every European production. Nuts, filberds, acorns, 
&. would be the same. We have lately obtained the 
einnamon-tree, and nutmeg-tree, which Dr. Roxburg 
very obligingly sent to me. Of timber trees I mention 
the Sissoo, the Teak, and the Saul-tree, which, being an 
unnamed genus, Dr. Roxburg, as a mark of respect to 
me, has called Carea Saulea. The Indian ships are made 
of the above mentioned timbers, and the saul- tree pro- 
duces good pitch called dhoona. 

| W. C. 


Mr. CAREY to Mr. PEARCE, 


Muduabatty, Jan. 18. 17% 


1 ruixx our prospects of · success are somewhat 
brighter; and there are more enquiries among the people 
concerning the gospel. This morning four or five persons 
expressed a desire to obtain part of the scripture, that 


they might © hear and know.” One young man has seve- 
ral times lately said to me, Sir, I will assuredly be your 


disciple.” Several persons seem to have some concern, 
though L almost fear to indulge much hope, because it 


has 80 often been disappointed. I think however, amidst 


all our discouragements, we are really stronger than ever, 
because God appears in some measure for our help. There 
is I hope a sensible revival amongst religious Europeans; 


and several others have lately heard the gospel, who per- 


haps never heard it before. The Lord seems to be mak- 
ing room for us; and [I trust we shall prosper in the land. 


Now I will wait for a letter from you. 
W. C. 


Mr. CAREY to Mr. SUTCLIFF. 
Mygnabatty, Jan. 16. 1798, 


I favs yours of Feb. 1797, which is the only one. 


of your favours that remains unanswered ; and must say, 
that though short, it contains multum in parvo. 


You are amongst the number of my dear friends whose 
names | often mention in my poor prayers to God; and 
give me leave to say, one to whom my heart is truly at- 
tached in the gospel. I rejoice to hear of your health, 
of your marriage, of your people, and of your happiness 
with them. They are a people whom I love, so far as T 
know them. The account of deaths, revivals, and other 
changes in your parts, is to me peculiarly interesting ; 
and 1 trust upon the whole there appears a degree of 
melioration in mundaue affairs, so far as they relate to 
the church of Christ. 


<< 
1 


* 
* * 
10 = 
r 
1 
. £» My F 
"8 
Ws 
1 
: 1 
1 . 4 
1 
iy 
r 
4 1 
1 
T7 LEW 
* gh 
= 
—_— 
N 
0 
i 1 
8 0 Aa 7 & 
. = 
4 - Us 
WA” 
1 A 
= 
4 4 
* 1 
* "i; i 
1 
* : * 
* 18 % 
SW | 
_-* - 
x * 
9 
i 
1 * 
2 4 
4 
; 4 
* ay 
—_ 
"——- 
x . . 4 E 1 N 
| on . 
7 * = 
© q 
| WES. 
1 = 
1 "= 
. * 4 
9 , 
10 3 
8 7 
I OP 
% _ 
\ 1 
. 
22 Was 
, RS 
"1 X 
T * 7 
4 * 
- 4 
127M * 45 
5 1 T* 
w-! o 
* : 
" 
3 7 
1 12 
* y 
$4 08 
SAR ' 
4 61 
2.4 
a Ws is 
n 17 iy 
"2 
"$4 55 
1 gol * 
1 + 
A 7 1 4 I 
3.08 wa 7 
42 » 
"6 1 
2 3 
2. : 
54 1 
N 2 4 | 
b 1 1 
* 5 . 
©. 
4 * j 
* 7 
5 
9 5 
i Pre - 
bs q * 
i f 'd 
1 . 
3 + 
13 * 
"Tn 
4 2 0 
g 7 71 
: = 1 £ 
E 1 
A 52 
2 8 
3 5 
. 7 
1 F b. 1 
Kee 
— 
E 
1 
ww * 
e \ 
N 
N 
1 5 
k I 8 
n 3 
4 _— 
ws -B 
a 1 
2 4 
+450 
th * 8 
* 4 
1 
. 
4 5 
: == 
? 5, 
A- 
[co * —— 
1 by 
741 . " 
1 
+ % 
* = 
£4 a 
Ve" 2 
= 1 
-— 
Dj \ 
_” x. 
- 2 - * 
hi ID, 1 » 
3 4 4 
7 79 
JS 1 
1 ra 
* FF} 4 
© =D 
=. 
& 58! — 
LY * 
* 3 
9 * 
1 = 
1 
* . 
o 2 * 
* 
o 
: K 
v 
mL 
I 
, © * *; 
—_— 
8 oY 
 » RY 
_ > 
* N 
"7 
[a 
bY 2 
r 
q 6 " 
- % A 
Ly 
4 N 1 
bt, 
I ! ö 
* $. - 
5 e 
1 
" 7 
* 5 
£7 
. of "Ms . 
> 5 
2 
1 
LS 
1 
* Se 
=> 
7. * * 
11 U 
. "F'Fv 
LS. 
29 
＋ K., 8 
1 4 
4a „ 
mY a 
F 3 1 
1 5 
1 
b 1 2 
o yy 
mo 
"8 | 
* * 
. 4 a 
2 
d * a L 
= 
* 
1 
* | 7 
'< o * 
1 Þ 
1 yy 
f 1 
4 4 
; 7 
4 : q [1] 
2 
1 
9 wo. 2 * 
A. y 
q CS 
- Þ 
- ES = 
Ra - \ 
. . 
2 
I ** 4 
. 7 
* 
14 50 
[ ” 
5 1 
> S. 
&-, 4 
4 4 
4 ; > 
: 53 
» > 
* 1 
% 
"y i ** 2 
1 
* 
4. 
$ 
"0 
9 *; 
q 


— 


408 

I am fully convinced of what you say respecting the 
propriety of keeping two journals: but owing to my ny. 
merous avocations which engross all. my time, I have 
long since dropped the practice of keeping any journal 
at all. When you consider my situation you will believe 
that I have enough upon. my hands; and yet am scarcely 
perceived among the millions of Bengal. Translating 
the scripture, and correcting former translations, occupy 
all my candle-light, and often all my afternoons. This 
you will readily conceive when you consider the diff. 
culty of translating. into a foreign language, and the 
labour of coliating my translation with various other 
versions, and also having to transcribe the whole with 
my own hand io the Beogales character, which is an ar- 
duous task, notwithstanding I write it nearly as fast as[ 
do English. Besides my ordinary labours I am learning 
the Shanscrit language; which, with only the helps to 


be procured here, is perhaps the hardest language in the 
world. 


I rejoice much at the missionary spirit which bas lately 
gone forth: surely it is a prelude to the universal spread 
of the gospel! Your account of the German Moravian 
Brethren's affectionate regard towards me is very pleas- 
ing. I am not much moved by what men in general say 


of me; yet cannot be insensible to the regards of men 
eminent for godliness. 


E SW 
44 " 5 


n 


Your hints respecting the natural history and other 
particulars of Bengal I have some time since adopted; 
and have separate books for every distinct class; as birds, 
beasts, fishes, reptiles, &c. I intend however to trouble 
you a little from time to time with some account of their 
mythology and religion; and as the worship of the Sun 
was performed in my sight last Lord's day, | shall begin 
with that, especially as I have not seen it noted by any 
writer on these subjects. I preached to them on the spot, 


\ 404 | | 
just in front of a long row of offerings, in the even- 
ing. | 2 | 5 | 


The Sun, called Soorgyo, or Deebahar, is supposed to 
be the governor of all bodily diseases, and is therefore 
worshipped in order to avert his anger, and to prevent 
diseases. Some valetudinarians worship him every sun- 
day by fasting and offerings; but he is annually worship- 

on the first sunday in the month of Mag, which was 
last Lord's day, Jan. 14. The name of this worship is 
called Dhormma Bhau, or Soorjya Bhau. The manner, 
it seems, is in some respects different in different places, 
but in these parts the women appear to be the principal 
actors in the worship; though none are excluded, and 
even Mussulmans have so far Hindooized as to join in 


the idolatry; It was thus conducted: At the dawn of the 
morning a great number of offerings were carried into 


the open field and placed in a row. The offerings which 
I saw consisted of fruits, sweetmeats, pigeons, and kids: 


and [ suppose other things, as deer, buffaloes, &c. might 


be offered A small pot is placed by each person's offer- 
ing, containing about a pint and half of water. A device 
made of a water plant, a species of phylanthus, made to 
represent the Sun, is placed on the edge of the pot, and 


a small twig of mango-tree with a few leaves on it put 


into it as people in England do flowers. The pot with 
all its appendages represent the Sun, perhaps as the 
vivitier of nature. By each offering also is placed—what 
Shall I call it, an incense-altar, or censer? It resembles 
a chaffing-dish, is made of copper, and stands upon a 


pedestal about a foot long. It is called Dhoonachee. It 


contains coals of fire, and has a kind of incense from 
time to time thrown into it, principadly the pitch of the 
saul-tree, called here dhoona. By each offering also stands 


a lamp which is kept burning all day; and the women 


who offer take their station by the offerings. At sun- 
rise they walk four times round the whole row of offer- 


* 0 
= 4 A 
A 1 r ah T0 ” M P 222 S ES = 4 fe n 5 - 2 * . * 8 oP: p 1 
b — 4 2 * 23 > x SIE 4 * , 3 3 OE = ” Ws — . prog * 7 * 7 — 2 — - 7 * SZ l . 4 8 2 2 
„ N I 1 2 23 - a -- 333 3 p ES 1 ? "2 E 5 M- 8 mb = . — ; 9 3 . 1 cs 2 = 
* 5 <4 8 3 4 Shs / 1 — bo * - 2 5 3 — 2 4 \ — 2 = * 4 * 2 * +; 2 => py" <A ry TIE * FE F _—_ = ” > HERE 
+ 5 D — „ <> 8 CS £5 \ - * Mo Pg . G — * — 2 r SIE "RAY * > 8.1 n "IS r DF ä 
2 9 9 1 2 5 5 * 2 . 2 8 KI? 0 * VIPER 7 2 EPs 7 be —— . b © 7 
4 aa a Da > 4,62 | By hp: , 3 * . * : as = : =" =) Pao oO HY Ot ra tf >, 
r * oh 8 „ ga—c cr. T n 1 4 n 2 755 FL _ a r bo > X% _— r 
F » BJ L — 2 * 3 —_ a SS wil” Tg * 1 1 l J — > 4 3 » ba I. SYS WET - x $*% $41 — " _ = = 
— . 70 . = - xx 4, 2 7 — n * „ h To > of : \ » by #9 -<- 8 . . _ g l 
* — 2 4 — . R 9 5 5 r + 4 « ELLE DEF) - " - * — * XR 2 © — * e - 


it - 


e 


2 


= 


—. Ne a ; = 2 

tun ue * . ET 1 

«this * * 04+ — Met TA ay TL * by 
* bn ef. . g's L 


* by * 
5 0 . wy * 5 i — * 
py: 22 * — = 


405 
inge, with the zmoking dhoonachee placed on their inks 
and then resume their station again, where they continue 
in an erect posture, fasting the whole day, occasionally 
throwing in a little dhoona into the dhoonachee. Toward 
evening, the brahman who attends the ceremony thront 
the pigeons up into the air; which, being young, cannot 
fly far, and are scrambled for and carried away by any 
one who gets them for the purpose of eating. The brab. 
man also perforates the ears of the kids with a pack- 
needle, after which the first who touches them obtain 
them. About sun-set the offerers again take up the smok. 
ing dhoonachees, and make three more circuits round the 
row of offerings, making the whole number seven times 
in the day. I have not learned the reason of this num- 
ber. After this each one takes up his or her offering, and 
the lighted lamp; when the lamps are thrown into x 
pond or otlier place of water, and each one takes hie 
offering home and eats it. When the lamps are extin- 
guished the worship is ended. Some of these things were 
presented to me; but in order to bear a testimony against 
the idolatry, I not only refused them, but others als 
bought on purpose for me by one.present; telling them 
that it was a very wicked thing to eat things sacrificed to 
idols, which are God's enemies. I preached to them 
from Rev. i. 16: © His countenance was as the sun shin- 
ing in his strength ;” and told them of the glories of the 
Lord of the sun, as creator, governor, and saviour. [I 
had a rich Fakir Mussulman, who came in the morning 
from a distance to hear me. I had much talk with him 
afterwards in the hearing of the people; who were 80 
credulous as to believe that he had actually, that morn- 
ing, turned a pot of water into milk! I asked him io dine 
with me, (this no native would do on any account) and 
observed to the people, that if he could change water 
into milk, he could change pork into mutton. Pork 1s 
never eaten by Mussulmans. 


406 


able worship. They have a book of directions for the 
performance of it which I am trying to procure; if I 
meceed I may in a future letter send you a translation of 
its contents. 


W. c. 


Mr. CAREY to his SISTER. 


Tuxnx are hopeful appearances in several of the 
natives, and I think much more enquiry than I have ever 


I have been obliged to furnish some of my own compose 
ing, and we sometimes have a melody that cheers my 
heart, though it would be discordant upon the ears of an 
Englishman.* - 


We are all well. I believe we never enjoyed a more 
healthy year in our family, though it has been a very 
sickly one among the people of the country. Mr, Foune 
tain was also very ill, so much so that we despaired of 
his life. Mr. Thomas sent 62 miles for a little bark for 
him, which was attended with a blessing. 8 


% The Hindoo system of music has, I believe, been formed on truer prin- 
ciples than our own; and all the skill of the native composers is directed to 
the great object of their art, the natural expression of strong passions, to which 
melody, indeed, is often $acrificed ; though some of their tunes are pleasing 
even to a European ear.“ Sir W. JoxEes, 


uus I have given you a short account of this remark- 


en before. The people being very fond of singing hymns . 


_ n 8 

I 2 5 
Eb l | = bo 

6 l l 


293" r 3 
ee eee 


7 26. = * . 
5 _— 5 . — — — 
4 C 7 * * 5 '< 
R 


RY 


2 
2 ER..." 
* 


— wt rms o 3 Y 


4x 
q = 


888 


Py” . k 8 4 
ws g — — 9 1 
2 E 
r Re © TS Co TG OY 2 
n rt W—_— * Gr e 
—_— < 7 ** 


*. 


_—_ XD 


Un. 


A 
= bY ES. : 1 be 
1 TT ITY 


T —— —— - FEE 
K Ä 
bh 1 dns 1 e LY TS r 


4 


* 
[gen 


„ ** I 
4 97 3 - 
i — | OD. ” 
15 3 jo _—— Me S « 
» 4 b * A # 
8 „ r e 


7 
» £58 x”. br 
2; 1 * 9 dt) 
ws OF, BE. 


r * 1 Fer: N 
* — - =_ l 


407 


Mr. CAREY. to his FATHER. 


bu 


| Mudnabatty, Jan. 18. 179 
Wx are, as you suppose, north of Calcutta, and near 
to the country of Boutan, generally called Tibet. 


As you observe, provisions are cheap, but the number 


of servants which it is necessary to keep makes living here 


much dearer than in England. I am obliged to keep tuo 
millers in my own family, for two persons are required 


in © grinding at the mill,” which is turned by the hand, 


and the women” here are chiefly employed in this by- 
siness. (Matt. xxiv. 41.) I also keep a baker, and a may 


to procure toddy, which we use instead of yeast. Toddy 
is the sap of the date-tree, and we get it from one, two, 


three, or more miles distant. Also, I keep a cook, a 
khansaman, viz. a kind of butler; a matrany, viz. 3 
cleaner; and two bearers who clean furniture, carry a 
chaita, &c. It employs one man to go about the country 
to buy provisions, which are often brought from the dis- 
tance of twenty miles; another man to keep the poultry, 
another to keep the cows, another the hogs, and another 


to attend the horse; for one man will not do all these 


things, nor any two of them. I am also obliged to keep 
a washerman, a brahman to teach me the language, a 
school-master whom I employ to teach the native chil- 
dren in the neighbourhood, and several gardeners; 80 
that though all necessaries do nol cost above fifty rupees 
per month, yet servants cost more than a hundred, and 
yet I have fewer than most other people have. 


Indigo, like every thing else, as you observe, depends 
on the blessing of God; yet crops are not so precarious 
here as in England, Floods are the greatest destroyers 


—=— 
we have to fear. This year has turned out well for indigo, 
but bad for rice, the rains not having been so abundant ; 


for rice must have continually four or five inches of water. 
to _ in, or it is much injured. | 


\ 


You may be b y easy respecting my safety. There 
is no danger from the natives; they are not vindictive, 
and are very servile in their manners. Besides the great- 
est part of the inhabitants for many miles round us have 
some profit or pecuniary assistance to expect from the 
manufactory either directly or indirectly. 


Our family are all well. My youngest son, Jonathan, 
though not two years old, speaks the language fluently. 
Jabez speaks Bengalee, Hindostanee,' and English, as 
do the other two elder sons. They all speak the country 
languages as well as the natives. 


w. c. 
„ — 
Mr. CAREY to Miss H. NEALE. 
Dear Madam, | | TIN Jan. 23, 1797, 


I nave to return you my sincere thanks for the set 

of the Sacred History which you so kindly sent out to me. 

It has afforded me much pleasure and profit, and I hope - 
will be of singular use to the rising generation. 


Undertakings like this will not be without their re- 
ward; and I am sure it must be a gratification to a mind 
like yours to see their good effects on youth. I hope you 
will be encouraged to undertake yet more, and serve the 


3 H 


| 409 


interest of our ; Hook Redeemer-in that important part 
which lade to the culture of . minds. 


I am employed i in a very n department. It is 
my business to bring a hideous wilderness into some 
beautiful order; and I am trying to pluck up and destroy 
the pernicious, and instrumentally to plant the profitable 
and necessary At present my success is but small, though 
such as to encourage me to persevere. 


Vour publication J have had the pleasure of recom- 
mending to several gentlemen in this country, some of 
whom have commissioned me to procure it for them. [ 
therefore should esteem it a favour if you would order a 
dozen of each of your publications to be sent to me, 


and I will on receipt of them order the payment in 
England. | 8 

You, Madam, will excuse my brevity when I inform 
you that all my time for writing letters is stolen from the 
work of transeribing the scriptures into the Bengalee lan- 
guage. You will believe me when I say that I think my- 
self much honoured by your letter, and that I am 


%. 


Yours, &c. 
W. C. 


Answers to various Questions put 10 Mr. Carey. 


7 Question 1. We find some difficulty in the various 
spelling of words: you sometimes write Bramin, and 
sometimes Brahman: you spell Boot, Mr. Thomas Bhoot: 


you sometimes write Joug, and sometimes Youg, and 
Holwell * 


part 


It is 
OMe 
troy 


Us 
d 
t: 
d 


| 410 
\ 


Answer. The true Shanscrit spelling is Brammhin, 


Bhoot, Joog, Suttya Joog; Tretà Joog, Dwapäàr Joog, 
Kali Joog. Henceforth I shall spell all words as they 
are spelt in Shanscrit or Bengalee, this being the method 
recommended by Sir William Jones in the Asiatic Re- 
gearches. I sound à as iu water, a as in father ; but never 
like the French e. I sound the e as the French e, or 
English a in name, I as Ee, and ee for the long sound of 
ee. O and oo have their natural long sound, wid 1 ex- 
press the short obscure sound of o, as in the last syllable 
of cotton, by a. Jex press. the long I by 5; and I do not 
intend to use C. and Q. U will only express its Short 


as in gun. 
sound as 8 5 7 


Q. 2. There seem to be many differences in the va- 
rious printed accounts of the Hindoo Mythology. You 


have recommended Sonnerat's Voyages, vol. ii. p. 8. 


Some think the most authentic account is to be found in 
the Asiatic Researches. 


A. I have not seen Holwell or Dow, and only one 


number of Sonnerat, viz. that which treats of the Hindoo 
Abatars and Mythology. This however 1 can assert to 
be a just account, as it corresponds with the Shasters 
which [ have seen. The Asiatic Researches may certainly 
be considered as authentic, but not exclusively. It can- 
not be supposed that every thing is comprised in that 
work. And the variety of names by which all their deities 
are called, may be an occasion of much confusion and 
mistake. I will instance only in the name of Seeb;“ all 
the following names of which deity are taken from the 


Abadhan, which is the Hindoo stzndard, and which I 


have copied with my own hand, aud put the correspond- 
ing English word to every Shanserit one ;—Sumbhoo, 


See some account of Seeb, Period, Ace. No. iii. pp. 179, 185, 213, 


on 


, * 
1 
" 
[1] 
1 
16 
1 
"= 
* 
5 
* 0 
1 
; 
© 
ks 
oy 
LY 
2 
7 


— 


411 + 


| Bega,# Phatopot ; Seeb, Soolee, Maheswar, di Sort, 
Eoshana, Shunkar, Chundrasekar, Bhooteesa, Khabdapd 
roosoo, Gireesa, Giriza, Mrirra, Mittyoonjoy, 4 Krittibag, 
Pinakee, Pràmathadhipà, Oogra, Kaparddes; Srikonk, 
Sitikontha, Kapalbbrita;, Bamadeba, Mahadeba, Biroops- 
kya, Trilochana, Krisanooreta, Sorbagya, Dhöörjàti, Nil. 
alohita, Har, Smarahar, Bhoorgi, Tryomboka, Tripooran. 
taka, Gangadbor, Andhakaripoo, Krattadhwangshee, Bri. 


sadhwaza, Byomkesà, _— Bheem, A 8 88 


Oompati. 


18 chess 1 names the à in the middle of a e s 
onda as the short vowel in the last syllable of altar, 
alter, minor, satyr. W in the above words also is only 
interjected into. the middle of the syllable, and gives 


the preceding consonant a harder sound, as if it were 
ag | 


Q. 3. You speak of some Mahomedans as worsbip- 


ping the Sun. (No. 11. p. 122.) Has not this an appear- 
ance of Paganism * than of Mahomedanism ? 


Wy The Mahomedans by reoidhigamong the Hindoos, 
imbibe much of their idolatry. It is not a principle of 
Mahomedanism to worship the Sun or Moon: yet this 
is practised by many Mahomedans. They adore them as 
subordinate deities, and even fear the power of the 


The final 3 may either be pronounced or omitted, as it is in this country. 


Both are right; but if pronounced it is like the last syllable in America. | 


t The y without the accent is always the first letter of the syllable, or rather 
has a sbort sound like the English pronunciation of kind, kid, &c. whych are ge · 
nerally ee as if a y were interjected between the k and i. 


Th is never sounded as in English, dut is an aspirated T. T here are tw 
sounds expressed by th, two by t, two by dh, and two by d: but I do not know 
how to express them by English letters. I have therefore used only one form, 


as the difference, though very striking to a 8 ear, is scarcely perceived dj 
an English one. 


edge the person from an eminence of about twenty feet 


Hindoo gods ny as much as do the Hindoos em- 
elves. 


\ 4 


Q. 4. Vow mention some eroons who had, as Ha | 


aid, never before heard that the soul would survive the 


body. (No. ii. p. 146.) But do they not all believe in the 
doctrine of Ot in 


A. Some of the most ignorant amongst the Hindoos 
do not understand the principles taught in their own 


Sbasters: these persons however were not Hindoos but | 
Mussulmans. 


Q. 3. In speaking of the tortures you represent them 
as precipating themselves from a place twenty feet high 
on spikes. (No. iii. p. 172—174.) Were the spikes fixed in 
the ground ? How are they secured from death, or from 
being maimed for life ? It seems astonishing that a man's 


skin can bear his whole * and the wound be ever 
cured, 


4. All these tortures take ** on the two last days : 
of the year, and three or four days of the new year. The 
Brammhans and Soodra's of every description, (women 
not excepted) fast the last day but one of the year, and 
the last day of the year they offer burnt offerings, meat 
offerings, &c. On the first day of the year the tortures 
begin. I have been asking my pundit concerning the 
spike. He says it is a weapon formed of wood and iron. 
A piece of wood is placed horizontally on the ground: 
and an iron blade, about nine inches long, with one edge 
and a point, much like the blade of a knife, is fixed into 
one end of the wood. The position of this blade when . 
fixed into the wood is neither horizontal nor perpendicu- 
lar, but oblique, much resembling a plow-bandle. That 
side of it which has an edge is upwards: and upon this 


' 
4 
p 
: 
| 
f 
h 


| precipitates himself. As the wood is not fixed in the 
earth, it may possibly fly up when the person falls upon 
it, and by the blade sinking to the ground, its ſatal effects 

| may be prevented. But I do not believe this to be de. 


418 85 


signed. On the contrary, the pundit has just told me of 
a person who was thus precipitating himself on the vea- 
pon at Chandernagur a few years ago, when a Mussulman 
ridiculed the whole, and said it was all a piece of i impos. 


ture. He added“ If you will fall on this spear in my 


hand, (a hog-spear, as the English call it, but used to 
spear any wild beast) I will then believe there is some- 
thing in what you pretend to.” „ Set up your spear, 
said the other; which being done, he immediately fell 
from the height on the top of the spear, and that with 


his breast towards it; but the spear broke, and the man 


was not hurt. They use no precaution whatever, except 
that in the swinging in the southern parts they fasten a 
cloth round the waist; and the hooks have hold both of 
the cloth and the flesh: but even this is not done in this 
neighbourhood. I saw last year a heavy man swing. I 
saw the hooks put in. He swang off gently at first; but 


afterwards was whirled round very fast; and at last took 


a log of wood, near half a hundred weight, suspended by 
a cord in his mouth, with which he swung for near a quar- 
ter of an hour. The skin, by bearing all this weight, was 
drawn from its natural position at least six inches: yet! 


know of no art used to heal the wound, except the appli- 


cation of a few leaves may be called art, it was left to 
heal itself. I have never heard of an instance in which 
any mischief followed. I have sought much for the origin 
of this barbarous practice, but in vain: the pundit saysit 
is no where commanded in the Shasters, but is entirely 
their own invention. 


Q. 6. In No. ii. p. 142, you say that “of the four 
casts or tribes into which the Hindoos were divided, only 


two remain, the Brammhin and the Sööder; the Ke 


414 


and the Bice having been extinct ever since the Kali 
Joog, or present age, began; which was nearly as long 

| back as the time of the creation of the world, according 
to the Mosaic account.” Yet elsewhere you speak of 
the Caesto or writer cast who never swing, and of those 
tortures being practised only by the lowest cast of the 
228 No. iii. p. 174. 


4. There were originally four Casts; viz. Brammhan, 
Kyetra, Bysyd, and Soodrd. The first are worshippers, or 
theologists 3 the second kings and soldiers; the third 
merchants and husbandmen; the fourth servants and 
mechanics. There are now only two of the original Casts 
remaining, namely, the first and the last: but there are 
many sub-casts, or inferior branches of each of these 
two; I cannot say how many. I know of many orders 
of Brammhins, and all the different casts now remaining I 
beside them are Soodras ; of which the Kot is the prin- 
cipal, and the Hurry the lowest. Even the Hurry ad- 
mits of many subdivisions; as mat-makers, shoe-makers, 
(which includes tanners, curriers, and skinners) bird and 
snake-catchers, and a great variety. 


There are many self- named Kyetras, called Raj-poots; 
and the Raja of Burdwais has by way of flattery been 
called a real Kyetra. The truth is however that there 


; is not one real Kyetra or. Bysya now living, or that are 
reckoned to have lived since the beginning of Kali Joog. 
Different degrees of purity are acknowledged in those 


| who assume those names, but such persons in reality are 
not to be found., I believe-the Koits are originally a 

mixture of some other cast with the Bysya; and the Raj- 
poots a mixture of some inferior cast with the Kyetra. 
There are many casts which are said to have had their 
origin from such mixtures, but are all now accounted as 
included in the Soodra. | 


415 
2 T. von mention a SRI bay who Win aint 


of losivg cast. Why should he fear it more than the 
Moonshi: : and what would he be if he fell. lower ? | 


4. The more ignorant a person is 5 the greater are hiz 
vuperstitious fears. There are also certain ideas with te. 

| gpect to losing cast which are local: and as persons of the 
same cast, and as ignorant ast the boy himself, would have 


been his judges, it 1s not to be wondered at that he should 
be afraid. 6 


if he had lost cast he might have become a Mussul. 
man by. paying for circumcision and other initiating 
ceremonies; bat if not, he would have been. reckoned 
a Portuguese, though properly an outcast from all; and 


e this would be the case with a Bramwhan or any: other 
cast. 


J ͥͤ ͤ K eo Y. & © 


Though they do not lose east on every © trifling occs- | 
sion, yet if a person of lower cast touch their rice after 
it is boiled, and they eat it afterwards, they lose cast. 
The same may be said of every thing to eat which has 
1 | had water put into it; for if it be dry no harm follows. 
Woe But it is a fact that the fears of the common people hare 
made a great many imaginary causes of losing cast, 
which operate on them as strongly as real ones; and 
which will account for their refusing to do what a person 
of higher cast will not scruple to do. I know not how 
the word Cast came into use. The natives call it Jt; 
or they corruptly pronounce it, by omitting the final i, 
. | 


Q. 8. The idols of the Hindoos, you say, are thrown 
into the water when the season of worship is over. 
(No. iii, p. 197.) Are not some of their idols stationary! 


416 


fraid I. In many ions there are 2 e or * 
| the materials, which are kept from time immemorial ; and 

temples, especially for SxkB and KaLEt, where thers 

are stationary idols. My pundit informs me that these 
» big are made by some king, or other great person, and are 
re. endowed with lands to maintain worship for the welfare 
the of that family, and that during this time the officiating 


Brammhan makes every day small representative images 
of earth, which he worships at the river or water side, 
and afterwards throws into the water with flowers and 
many other ceremonies, But if at any lime the family 
become extinct or the endowment cease, it is then pro- 
per to throw the idol into the water; though this is sel- 
dom done, because among the Hindoos © no one wil? 
open the door for nought.” All other idols without ex- 
ception are thrown. into waters when the season for wor- 


shipping them is past. 
W. C. 


Rrsolurioxs of the CoMMiITTEE met at ARNSBY, 
April 10. 1798. | 


(With reference to Mr Carey's Letter of March a. 1797.) 


1. That brother Carey's Translation of the New Tes- 
tament into Bengalee be printed without farther delay. 


2. That paper be sent from 3 for that * 
as soon as possible. 


3. On account of the expence attending the Transla- 
tion of the Scriptures, we find it expedient to decline at 
present a mission into Cornwall; and as the Baptist Iti- 
nerating Sociely in London has kindly proposed on this 
zupposition to take it up, Resolved that for this Summer | 
it be declined accordingly. a 


21 


417 


4. The Edinburgh Missionary Society having voted 
£200 towards the printing of the New Testament in 
Bengalee, in addition to £50 which they formerly voted 
for the same purpose; and having also generously invited 
us to acquaint them with our situation should we stand 
in need of farther pecuniary. aid, Resolved that thy 
Secretary be requested to express to them the: very grate. 
ful sense which we entertain of _ Wes" and irs 
| therly nn 


5. That . sum of £10: be * * the rena. 
ns Rod yay for his labours i in Cornwall. 


6. A . ** read 3 the New Yak Mixxion. 
ary Society requesting a correspondence with us, Re. 
solved that the Secretary be desired to open such A cor 
respondenee on behalf of the Society. 


ReSoLUTIONS at a COMMITTEE MEetTING held at Loxe 
BUCKBY, Muy 15. 1798. | 


1. As there i is a great rabobility of the first edition of 
the Bengalee New Testament being attended with many 
In perfections, Resolved that 2,000 only be printed; and 
that as soon as another edition be found necessary chat it 
be a larger one. 


2. That those friends who have contributed to the 
Translation under the idea of 10,000 copies being printed, 
be informed of this resolution, and that they be al liberty 
to recall any part of their contributions as they may judge 
proper. But if they choose to let it continue, it shall be 
put to interest, and be considered as a Nagra. to- 
wards the Second Edition. © 


F ̃ abi - + _ 


7 
; 


418 
„ iel oy in a ATE 1 T | 2 5 
neee of the ani met at Notmnane- 
„ 145 111492: PEN; Sept. 20. 1798. 
( With reference to Letters from June 1797 to Jan. 1798.) 


1. That it is desirable that sueh persons who may pro- 
themselves as candidates for missionary undertak- 
ings, and who have not already had a suitable education, 
should be placed under the care of some one of our bre- 
thren for such time as the society shall judge fit, in order 
to their qualifications being better ascertained, and de- 
sirable ip e made. 5 
2. That E. B. and J. C. be accepted as probationers 
for such an undertaking; and that brother Sutcliff be re- 
quested to take the said E. B. and J. C. under his care for 
the above purpose during the pleasure of the society. 


3. That Mr. William Ward, a young minister, and 
who has been by profession a printer, now at Ewood 
Hall, near Halifax, having expressed his willingness to 
engage as a missionary to India, — Resolved that so far as 
we can at present judge, his services would be agreeable 
and desirable; and that the-geeretary be requested to in- 
vile him to attend and preach at the Kettering Ministers“ 
Meeting, to be held on Oct. 16. 1798. 


4. That the sum of £10 be allowed to brother Foun- 
tain, as a gratuity, besides his ordinary income. 
At KETTERING MiNTSTERS˙‚ MerTING, 


Oet. 10. 1798, 
( here nearly all the members of the committee were present) 


Mt. Ward was publicly engaged; and full enquiry 
having been made into his 3 * 


419 


qualifications, it was unanimously resolved that Mr. 
William Ward be accepted as a missionary to this society, 
and that amen be made for his going out next 


Spring. 


Resolved also that the . be authorized to 
draw on a banking-house in London for their salaries, 
-and Mr. Carey for the Translation, or any ojher general 
9 of the mission. | | 


* 


It was also agreed that a meeting for prayer and con- 
gultation on the business before us should be held at 
— on 'Tucaday, Nov. 20. ary 


EXTRACTS OF LETTERS 


FROM APRIL 5, TO MAY 12, 1798. 


— 


Mr. CAREY to Mr. FULLER. 


Mudnabatty, April 5. 1798. 

Wu: bre our discouragements. Those persons of 
whom we have entertained hopes do not grow as we could 
be glad to see them; and sometimes we see things which 
greatly exercise our n on their behalf. Yet we are not 
greatly dejected. There is an evident increase of gospel 
knowledge in these parts; and I have been surprised to 
find people who have some knowledge of gospel facts 
though they reside at a considerable distance, and have 
never heard us preach. Between twenty and thirty wor- 


* 


} 


420 


sip with us every morning. On Lord's duys mere and 
presching in the villages is well attended. At Dinage- 
pore things are pleasing : we have had opportunities of 
preaching to all the Europeaus there, and almost all at 
Rungpore who have been visiting there ; and have reason 
to think that we are pretty well — by them. At 
Dinagepore also the Bengalee people are attentive. I 


inclose the questions proposed by a native _ and 
en Fountain s answers to them. 


Our school conviets of nineteen boys, some of whom 
make considerable progress, especially in writing: and 
as many of them are of the lowest cast, it is more . 
able. | ; rn 
- She | | 1 J ealupiiing 

Besides this we have some hopeful appearances amongst 
individuals which tend to keep us from sinking. A Hin- 
doo, whose name is Hurry Charon, has for some time 
given us much encouragement. One day he asked me 
with much concern what he must do to be saved? Ano- 
ther day he told me he had two minds pulling opposite 
ways; one towards Christ, the other towards Hindoo® 
eustoms. At another time he told me that since he has | 
heard the gospel, he is convinced that all he ever did is 
sin, only ain. One day, being kept from worship by 
family sickness, he came soon aſter and told me that if 
ever he was detained from the house of God it was his 
great disappointment and grief; and, says he, if I think 
I am too late, J run to assemble with you. Tudecd his 
attendance and serious enquiries give us much pleasure. 

There are also another or two who are pleasingly ingni- 
sitire. One young man whose name is Poran, can , 
a little. He bas solicited copies of all our Bengalee 
hymns, which he soon committed to memory, and taught 
to others. He also entreated me much to give him a 
copy of the scriptures. Having but one copy fair and 
perfect, I gave him an imperfect copy of Genesis which 


421 


had. been much 'conecttd; and was full of erasures, &e. 
This he received with pleasure, and rw 1 
n e een hes - 

+ + Wo 


bos 9199: Ie. CAREY e Mr. PEARCE. 


ann Apet 29. 1798, 

- ALTnoven I have scarcely received a letter this 
year, and you have been more negligent of writing to me 
than usual, yet I intend not to let an opportunity slip of 
writing to one whom my soul loveth. I have written the 
particulars of the mission to brother Fuller, and shall not 
repeat them here. Suffice it just to say that the affair 
of the mission rather look up. Though a long series of 
disappointed hopes teach me to go forth in the strength 
of the Lord, and to look to no quarter but himself for 


Last Lord's day I preached to a pretty large congte- 
gation at Moypaul; and on Tuesday evening to a large 
assembly at a village far north, called Korney, where the 
name of Christ had not been known before. Some who 
commonly attend our morning exercises have lately 
begun to shew more concern than usual, and . 7215 will 
. on the __ of our Lord Jeous Christ. 


ks time ago T- wrote to the a Mr. Sent 
who entered into the rest of his Lord soon after receiving 
my letter ; and consequently did not answer it. His ex- 
eeutor, Mr. Gericke, has since replied to me. I inciosc 
you my letter and his answer, which JI am sure will give 
you much pleasure; especially as I hope it may be esteem- 
edi as the introduction to a useſul correspondence. You will 
perceive that they meet with difficulties respecting the cast 


422 


zimilar to ours, though we ca does nt appear 6 be = 
har to communion with them. 6571 


ESL 


Another pious miniatar, Row. Mr. Ringletube, bas 
lately arrived in these parts, whom L hope to see at this 
place in a few days. It is very encouraging to see an en- 
erease of evangelical ministers in this country ; and I hope 
our friends will not much longer delay to send more to 
our assistance. Brother Fountain has begun io pray in 
public, and I trust will soon be able to labour more ex- 


*. 

hs tensively. But it should be considered that for some years 
90 io come, if God should continue my life, I shall have no 
of other helper. New missionaries will be two years before 
be they can preach to the natives at all; and much longer 
FA before they can have any command of language. 

5 Printing is very important. Types can be east in this 
h country, and a printing press may be made ; but money 
05 is the sine qua non. Hitherto I have with some inconve- 


nience saved a little from my own income for the expences 
of the mission; but various difficulties put it out of my 
power to do what I think ought to be done. 


"WW. 


1 FOUNT AIN- fo My. MORRIS. 


| Mee May 12. 1798. 
You wished me to keep a journal. I began to do 80 
at the beginning of the present year, and have written 
zomething in it almost daily: and if | can prevail with 
| myself will send it you at the end of the year. I fully in- 
, tend however to send a box by the ships of next season, 
containing some of the implements, ulensils, and idols, of 


25 10 has. © | 2 


„ 
the Hindoos; which may serve as useful illustrations when 
the present customs, manners, and superstitions of these 
. tribes du be known only” in ar. 


To lock at 1 circumetanees ks would fill the 
: mind with despair : but standing by faith on the immuu- 
ble promises of Jehovah, and looking through the tele. 
scope of prophecy, a scene presents itself sufficient to in- 
spire the highest hopes, and to enrapture all the contem- 
plative powers of the soul! In the everlasting covenant 
ordered in all things and sure. I see mankind as“ ney 
creatures: strong holds are demolished; vain imaging 
tions, and every self- exalted thing are cast down; while 
every thought is sweetly captivated in obedience to Chrisi. 
Isee Hindoo pagoda's, and Mahomedan mosques all de. 
stroyed! ! Where they stood, christian temples are erect. 
ed, in which Jehovah is'worshipped in the beauty of ho- 
liness! The horrid music is heard no more! The fran- 
tic dance has ceased ! Instead thereof the sanctified heart 
bounds with sacred pleasure, and the tongue is filled with 
the high praises of God. The dreadful exploits of devils 
deified are no longer the burden of the song ; but the un- 
paralleled exploits of grace divine ! | 


This scene, sir, represents not India alone, of which 
we have taken possession in the name of the Lord, but all 
the various countries where other missionaries are gone. 
All the idols of the heathen. are famished! The Lord 
and his Name are One in all the earth, 


Excuse this ideal excursion. The thing is certain; and 
the interpretation sure: and we are often forced to think 
of these things to check the sigh of disappointed hope, 
and dry the flowing tear of blasted expectation ! 


J. k. 


ok 


9 
„ 


aCesrI0Ns prope by RAGE KEESHORE, ” — 


To THE MISSIONARIES, - 
And ANSWERS by Mr. FOUNTAIN. . 
! <ul 


Now the gospel is come into this country SE the 
Sakib Padras, I wish for answers to these questions— 


5 8 
Question 1. God is the creator of the world, and he 
has made all living creatures that are upon the earth; 
and no one else preserves and governs them all. He is 
the musician, and all living creatures the instrument. 
As he plays on it, so it gives forth the tune. If thus, 


wherefore are the creatures sent to hell to suffer for it? 


Answer. God is the creator and governor of the 
world, as you say, and also of all that is in it; and he 
orders all things to the best end: but men are not like a 
musical instrument. A musical instrument cannot act. 
The performer plays what tune he pleases upon it. But 
men are moral agents; they act freely in all that they 
do. If you examine your own mind you will. find that 
you act as freely as it is possible to act. You do this or 
that, not because you are compelled to it, but because it 
pleases you. You also punish. men for their evil actions, 


and praise or reward them for their good ones: but both 


these would be wrong if they did not act willingly, So 
God will punish men for all their bad actions, because 


they proceed from a wicked mind. He however will 


overrule all to general good. No thanks to man for 
that. 


Q. 2. Besides God there is no one. He is eternally 
the same. He has created man, beast, bird, and insect. 


This Lord is very compassionate over all : his favour ex- 


tends equally to all. Having known this, yet wheu the 


4 4 , | 
425 
8 n 


ereatures are eaten, or destroyed, or in any manner in. 


Jured, will the punishment of this * fall on the 
perpetrator or not ?. 


# 5544 k 


A. Besides God there is no other self-existent one, 
He is eternally the same. This you say, and we grant it 
true. He created men, beasts, birds, and insects, Hig 
word informs us of their first creation ; and that he made 
beasts, and all things for the use of man. We believe 
that it is so, because they can answer no other end. It is 
no sin to kill these creatures for food, because God hag 
given us permission to do 80. He is pleased when ye 
use these creatures according to. his own command, 
While they live they share the favour of God, seeing he 
gives them food and sleep, which is all they want. These 
creatures cannot sin: if they kill a man it may be because 
the Lord is angry with that man's sin, and bath * given 
them permission to do so. | 


Q. 3. This supreme Pr” has created all living erea- 
tures in the world: all are his creatures. If parents have 
many children, all equally obtain favour : yet amongst 
men some are rich, others poor: wherefore ? 


A. All men are the creatures or children of God : and 
so considered he loves them all alike, as a good parent 
loves all his children. But a parent does not bestow his 
favours equally on all. He bestows favour on the good 
and dutiful in a manner in which he does not on the bad 
and disobedient; and so does God. It is God that gives 
a man power to get rich, and many who have power do 
not improve it because they are idle and negligent. This 
is their own fault, and those who are rich are not so on 
their own account. They are only stewards for God; and 
he will be very angry and punish them if they do not 
lay out all for the best. Besides the Lord is wise in all 
he does, and he knows that poverly is better for some 
men * riches n be. 


426 


Q. 4. The worshippers, or lovers of God, after death, 
will they come again into. this world, or where will they 


go? 


os 


A. The worshippers, or lovers of God, after death, 
will not come into this world again and inhabit other 
bodies; but will go to | heaven and be imma 


happy. 


Q. 5. God created four n viz. bi fe, nan; air, 
and earth. Besides there is fire which is not in the body. 
Animals, body and spirit, are made from these. At death 
these all return to their primitive like: if so, what dies? 


4. Vou are mistaken when you say God ereated life, 


water, air, earth, and fire, which you say is in no part of 


animal body and spirit. There is as much fire as any 
thing else in the body. Our bodies are warm, and some- 
times hot. But where there is no fire there is no heat. 
Besides we can draw fire out of them, or put more into 
them. Life is no distinct separate thing, but the opera- 
tion of all these things together. You ask, what dies? 
answer death is not the annihilation of any thing; but 
the disjunetion or non of soul and body. 


Q 6. Under and all sides of the earth is water, and 
it swims on water: how then is it stedfast? And some- 
times earthquakes happen: why ? 


A. The earth is not surrounded on all sides with 
water, as you say, nor does it swim on water; but earth 
and water together form one round body or globe. This 
keeps continually turning round, which causes day and 
night. The velocity of its motion keeps it steady. Earth- 
quakes are occasioned by the fermentation of tire in the 
earth, In some countries near to ours, after an earth- 
quake, the fire bursts forth from the earth and runs along 
the ground like rivers. 


. 
8 © 4 
89 247+ 


— 3 
1 - 2 
*. > — 


_ 


* 4 5 
* - 
2 * 
* 


* —— 
— TE 


— 


427 
0 7. 1 have heard of heaven and dell: are hy 
within the earth or without it ? 


4. Heaven ad bell are not within this earth, Hes. 
ven is a state of perfect happiness; and hell the state of 


| pcs misery. Where these are we cannot on dll ve 


Q. 8. What place is best for God's worship: that 
where many people An hn or solitude, viz. inaccessi- 
ble places? 


A. As there is but one God, we feel a FD pleasure 
in meeting together to worship him: but as each of us 
have particular wants we also worship him in private, 


and ask him for those things which we need. Both these 


ways the Lord hath commanded ; but does not require 


us to go into inaccessible places, To do so would be 
Rs. 


ae 9. Will the world always remain in its present 
state, or will it be destroyed ? 


4. This world will got abweyt remain in its present 
state, but will be destroyed. After the Lord shall have 
sent his word to all nations to teach sinners the way of 


salvation through Jesus Christ, the world wita all its 
works shall be burnt up. 


* 


Q. 10. Is it best to worship God by fastings, penan- 


ces, and macerations ; or r by eating. 8 drinking, and 
enjoying ease? 


A. God must be worshipped in spirit and in truth; 
and we must love him with all our soul. The outward 
acts of worship are prayer and praise. Penances and 
macerations are not commanded of God, and therefore 


they 
* 


e of 


that 


nt 


4 4 28 
4«„6ê + 


) % 


not desing to * They cannot atone ſor sin. »The 
blood of Jesus Christ . cleanses from all sin. 


CORRESPONDBNCE | 


BETWEEN 


un. CAREY AND MR. GERICKE: | 


— — 
Mr. CAREY to the Rev. Mr. SWARTZ. 
Very dear Sir, | A Mudnabatty, Nov: 21. 17% 


Tuoven entirely unknown to you, I shall make no 
apology for troubling you with a letter; because I know, 
from what I have heard of your labours among the Hin- 
doos in the gospeb of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you 
need not any thing of this kind to introduce another to 
your acquaintance, | 

In the year 1792 the Baptists in England, being much 
impressed with a sense of the perishing state of the hea- 
then world, after prayer and repeated consultation for a 
considerable space of time, formed a society for the pur- 
pose of sending the word of life to the nations that sit in 
darkness: and in the beginning of 1793 a mission to 
Bengal was resolved on. At a solemn meeting of a com- 
mittee of the society I was chosen, together -with a col- 
league, Mr. J. Thomas, who had been in Bengal before, 
preaching to the natives. And we, having acceded to 
the desires of the society, sailed in a Danish vessel, and 
arrived in this country, Nov. 1793, where we have since 
been joined by another brother whose name is Fountain. 


Our labours have not been very extensive; nor have 
we any success so visible as to induce any of the natives 


o lose cast, or join with u us in church-fellouchip; 3 though 
three or four persons give us considerable Encouragement, 


I have long wished. 8 a > correspondence with You, 
but have deferred wiiting on various accounts: at lax, 
however, my own desires, and the solicitations of many 
christian friends who long to know the state of your mis 


sion, have prevailed over all excuses. Vet lest I should 
be tedious, I will only make a few enquiries, and should 


you fayour me with a letter, I will afterwards be more 
copious, 


I am anxious to know the state of the cause of our 
Lord Jesus Christ amon g you in the following particulars; 
1. How many missionaries are employed, and upon what 


plan do they act to introduce the gospel into any place! 


2. Do the missionaries travel much, or are they stationed 
over particular congregations and districls? 3. Hoy far 
in the country do their labours extend? 4. Are any of 
the converted natives labourers in the ministry ? 5. What 
has been the success of the gospel with you, rapid or 
slow; and how many do you reckon to have turned from 
idols to the living God? 6. Does the inward religion of 
the heart prosper among the converted heathen ? 7. How 
do they act with respect to cast; is it not a great obsta- 
cle to their openly avowing faith in the Lord Jesus? 


I should make more enquiries, but am fearful of tiring 
you by prolixity. I have heard that you have the word 
of God translated into Malabar. I have been employed 
in that important work; and we have the whole New 


Testament, the Pentateuch, and nearly all the Psalus, 
now in Bengalee. 


It would afford me pleasure to send you some periodical 
publications respecting the success of the gospel and the 
state of religion in different parts of the world, but at 
present I know not by what conveyance to do it. Should 


- 


2 n . — — 


430 5 


you cutout: me ith an answer, I will most clan 0d 
you some. | e 


One of « our brethren is absent, or I am sure hs would: 
join with brother Fountain and myself in christian love 
to you and to all the brethren in Christ Jesus who are 
xith you. Tell them we love them in the Lord, and are 
of one soul with them. 


Yours, &c. 
| W, E. : 
Rev. Mr. GERICKE to Mr. CAREY. 
Ny dear Sir, Ly Vepery, near Madras, March 28 1798. 


HAPPENING to come to Tanjore, (in conducting 
thither a new missionary and his family, who arrived at 


the end of last year from England at Fort St. George, 


near which place I reside, at a village called Vepery) at 

the time when our Jate reverend brother and father Mr. 

Swartz was to be laid on his death-bed ; and after his 
having fallen asleep, taking an account of his papers, 
having been appointed by him to be his executor, I found 

a letter directed to him by you, of Nov. 21. 1797. Un- 
willing to deprive my brethren at Tanjore of the original 
of a letter which pleased me so much, I desired only a 
copy of it; and having returned to Vepery, am now doing 
wyself the pleasure of replying to the questions stated 
therein : for which I have had no opportunity before, 
having had little or no leisure for writing letters either at 
Tanjore or during my journey. I believe our late father 
and friend would have answered your letter upon the re- 
ceipt of it, if it had not found him confined to his bed 
by sickness, of which he recovered only for a short time. 
| hope still that you will receive a letter from Tanjore 
too, when one of my- brethren there, who is most ac- 


45 


quainted with the state of the congregations southwa 
of Tanjore, shall have recovered from his illness, with 
which be has been afflicted since I left that place. I hare 
also communicated your letter to my brethren the Danis 
missionaries at Tranquebar, whom J visited and conferred 
Vith in my return from Tanjore, who with me rejoice in 


your zeal for Christ. th 
„ he 

I come now to the points on which you desire to be fc 
inſormed: | 80 


1. Nine missionaries are now employed on this coast. 
Three in Tranquebar, who depend on the Mission- college 
at Copenhagen; three at Tanjore ; one in Trichinopoly; 
two at Vepery near Madras, who depend on the Society 
in London for promoting Christian knowledge. They | 
* preach to their congregations which they have collected; 
hold conferences with the heathens; disperse little tracts 
* which are printed at Tranquebar and Vepery, for the in- 
struction of the native heathens. 


2. All the missionaries are stationed over particular 
congregations and distriets, but some of them travel fre- 
quently. So one of the missionaries at Tanjore has these 
several years been half the year in Ramanad, Pallam- 
cottah, and other places in the south of this peninsula, 
where congregations are collected. The missionaries at 
Tranquebar frequently visit the congregations in the 
Tanjore country, which are taken care of by native ca- 
techists and school-masters. I have hitherto made fre- 
quent journeys to Pullicat, Sadras, Cuddalore, Negapa- 
tam, Vellore, &c, In all these j Journeys we endeayour to 
preach to the heathens where we see any collected, or 
have conferences with individuals whom we meet with. 


3. From Madras missionaries have travelled, and sent 
catechists as far as to Ambore which is 130 miles from 


the coast, to visit che atlas who live as far up the 
country, and preach to the heathens ; and from Tranque- 
bar to Trichinopoly which | is also about 100 miles from 
the coast. 


* 


4b There have always been two natives, labourers in 


the ministry. One died last year at Tranquebar who 
had been ordained by all the missionaries assembled there 
for that purpose: the other resides at Pallamcottah, the 
zouthern- most place in this peninsula, where we have a 
church and congregation. He was ordained by the late 
Mr. Swartz in e with fs two colleagues at 
8 


5, The success of the gospel has been but slow with 
us. At times it has been more rapid. At and about 
Tanjore in a short time many have turned from idols to 
God under late father Swartz's ministry. I am also told 
that of late many have been converted in the more south- 
ern country about Pallamcottah. I shall endeavour to 
collect from the different registers an account of the num- 
ber of adults that have been baptized. 


6. With regard to the inward religion of the heart 
among the converted heathens, I beg leave to mention 
what late Mr, Swartz said on his death-bed of the chris- 
tians at Tanjore, © There is in all a good beginning: i if 
another says, But there is nothing perfect; let him ex- 
amine himself and then judge.“ 


7. With respect to cast, the converts conform to the 
customs of their cast in not eating with those, or of what 
has been prepared by those who are of no cast. But the 
cast is the greatest obstacle to these heathens in their 
openly avowing faith 1 in the Lord Jesus. 


L3 


The books of the Old and New Testament are tray, 
lated into Malabar, and printed; and we rejoice that yoy 
have so much of the Scriptures translated into Bengalee. 


If you have any periodical publications respecliog the 
success of the gospel, and the state of religion in differ. 
ent parts of the world, and will favour me with them, 
please to send them to the Rev. David Browne at Cal. 
cutta. I make no doubt but he will have the * 
10 forward them to me. 


I recommend myself and the mission on this const to 6 
your prayers, and those of your brethren ; and shall al 
ways be happy to hear that the Lord is with To and 
gives success to your a 


C. W. GERICKE# 


A Mission on the Malabar Coast has been supported for many years by 
Taz SoctetTY FOR PROMOTING CHRISTIAN KNOWLEDGE. There have been 
several worthy characters who have laboured in this harvest; amongst whow 
was the late venerable Mr. Swartz. To him, as the reader will perceive, Mr. 
Carey's letter was addressed, but his dying before an opportunity occurred of 
answering it, this work devolved on Mr. Gericke, his feHow-Jabourer and exe- 
cutor. ä 


© VILLAGE PREACHING. . 
| Ee . = ; 1 ; ; 4 


Ir will be seen by the Appendix that something has 
been expended in attempts to promote the interests of re- 
ligion in the Villages; where, the Society is happy to say, 
various efforts have been made, with encouraging pros- 
pects of success. In Wiltshire, a county in which there 
is but little evangelical religion, where our brethren have 
formed an Assistant Society, there have been considerable 
exertions in this way. Nearly a hundred places have of 
late been registered for public worship, and very serious 

efforts have, been-made by zealous individuals for pro- 
moting the gospel of Christ. In aid of this work, the 
Society has afforded some assistance, and has the pleasure 
to add, that the labours of those whom they encouraged 
have given them satisfaction. 


The mission to Cornwall, though declined for the 
present year by this Society, on account of the extra- 
ordinary expences which would be incurred by the print- 
ing of the New Testament in Bengalee, yet has been 
kindly 9 by the Baptist Itinerating Society in 
London. | : 


— Rm 
Such as are disposed to remember this Charity in their Wills, 
may use the following Form of Bequest. 


ITzM. I give and bequeath unto A. B. and C. D. 
the sum of upon trust, to the intent 
that they, or either of them, pay the same to the Trea- 
surer, for the time being, of the particular Baptist So- 
ciety for propagating the Gospel amongst the Heathen ; for 
the use and support of the said Society: and his receipt 
Shall be a full and sufficient discharge for the same. 


1 

NB. The delay attending the publication of Num- 

HE ber V. has given an opportunity for inserting the accounts 

k lately received from the Missionaries, dated from April 

5 to May 12, 1798, which, it is hoped, will sufficiently 

apologize for the detention of the present Number, The 

committee have it not in their power to specify the time 

when the succeeding number may be expected: they can 

only say, that it shall be prepared for the press as soon as 

the materials necessary for that purpose shall have come 

to hand. It is intended to conclude the First Volume of 

Periodical Accounts with No. VI, which will be. accom. 
poanied with a copious Index and Title page. 


END OF NO, v. . 


* 


436 


POSTSCRIPT: 


Ajter the preceding sheets were all printed off, and the 
Ved considered as concluded, other Letters arrived 
from India, with a few Extracts from which we hall pre- 
gent the reader, leaving a more minute detail of various | 
other particulars for Number VI. 


———— ꝛm———— 
July 4. 1798. 

You will naturally be most of all inquisitive about 
the state of divine things amongst us. Brother Fountain 
has begun to preach in Bengalee. We labour at home 
and abroad; but considering the vast multitudes: all 
around us, we are ready to say, We have hitherto 
wrought no deliverance in the earth. Vardee and Door- 
gotteea are still at Moypaul, and continue much as they 
were. Hurry Charon gives us much pleasure still, and 
often talks very feelingly about the gospel. Parbotee is 
with us: of him however I can say but little. Gospel 
knowledge is still encreasing, and some Hindoos have 
even composed verses in an evangelical strain, and 
brought them to us. I find also by people frequently 
putting questions to my children, and by other circum- 
stances, that there is more enquiry than I had imagined. 
Our school, which has been revived since the departure 
of R. R. Boshoo, now consists of twenty one children, 
who every day write out and read to us some portion of 
the scriptures, join us in the morning worship, sing hymns 
very pleasantly, and improve considerably in writing and 
accompts. Dinagepore may I hope be comideyed as a 
rising interest. The congregation of the Bengalees is a 
very repectable one, 


27 


7 


Three men arrived this day from Bootan with a pre. 
zent from our old friend the Soobah. 1 think by a trifling 
present in return to him, or by him to the Dib Rajah, 
now and then, the way might be prepared for introdue- 
ing the gospel into that hitherto unknown country, In- 
deed I doubt not but providence will open the way for 
the gospel to be admitted into that and all the neigh. 
bouring nations as soon as missionaries can be obtained, 
wWhieh we hope will not be long. I know that if God were 
to bless our labours, mueh more might probably be done 
by one of the converted natives than by many foreigners, 
on account of his being so intimately acquainted with 
their customs, proverbial expressions, and prejudices, as 
to meet them with proper arguments. This happiness 
however we do not at present possess, and until the 
Spirit be poured out from on high, Which J hope will be 
ere long, the mission must be supplied from England 
wich persons who are proper to labour in the work. 


September 26. 1798. 
Tas morning lo men et with a letter from 
the Soobah of Bootan, and a present of two Hill Mino's, 
a species of birds which are very apt in imitating human 
speech, and which I may hereafter describe to some of 
my correspondents. I insert a translation of the letter. 


% SURREE Naya, Soobak of Bhote Hit, 
«Sends his best compliments to his friend* Mr. Carey, 


always praying to God for his prosperity. The particu- 
Jars of my letter follow :—First, I received the present 


you sent me by your two servants some time ago. Pre- 


vious to their arrival my body was afflicted, and that ill- 
ness still continues. —Secondly, I send two Paiks (ser- 


In a former letter you will find that brother Thomas and myself performed 
the ceremony of exchanging rupees and betel with the Soobah, (See p. 366.) 
since which he calls us friends, and indeed has been very friendly, 


hn 


| 


q 
L 


ung io parry; letters "Ir to your prezence. | May they 
gafely arrive . Thirdiy, The affliction of my body is s 
follows: a violent pain and constrietion in my loins, and 
also a violent pain under my left thigh, attended with 
aswelling, and a total loss of appetite, which has confined - 
me to my bed.—Fourthly, Having understood all other 
particulars of my affliction from my Paiks, be s kind as 
to send me some medicines, w_ 125 possible came vom! 
oon to see me. This is all, 

In the year 288, 5th hoy of Ain.“ 


' Twas much concerned to hear of the Soobak's affliction. 
His disorder appears to be the gout, or sciatica. But I 
have scarcely any medicines ; yet must not send his men 
away without something, which L will take care shall 
do him no harm, if it does him no good. I addressed a 
letter to him, recommending him to foment the affected 
part with a decoction of wormwood ; afterwards to wrap 
it upin wool, and wholly to abstain from drinking spirits. 
It is now a very busy time with me, so that I cannot go. 

to see him; but intend to visit him as soon as convenient. | 


October 10. 1798. 

Ov brethren in England are often the subjects of con- 
versation between brother Fountain and myself: for not 
having much of that soul-enlivening communion with the 


zaints, which you enjoy so plentifully in England, we 


often endeavour to supply its place by talking over our 
former friendshi ps, and feel the pleasure of calling to mind 
the delightful seasons with which we have been formerly 
indulged. Nor do we unfrequently desire most earnestly 
to see more of our acquaintance join our standard, and 
participate with us in the work of the mission. 

We are not however without some agreeable conversa- 
tion and acquaintance, though obliged to travel for it. At 


1 439 ; 
Malda and its vieinity there are several who I fear not 
to reckon amongst the number of true christians. At 
Dinagepore we are much interested by the conversation 
of some whib attend our ministry, and feel particularly 
happy in the society of our good friend Mr. Fernandez, 
of whose genuine piety there is increasing evidence, '] 
have lately been introduced to several gentlemen whose 
treatment has been peculiarly kind and respectful, and 
Whose acquaintance I find to be of great advantage, on 
account of their eminent knowledge of the Shanserit 


| language. | 


October 30. 1798. 


I navg now finished the translation of the Penta- 
teuch, Psalms, Isaiah, Jeremiah, part of Ezekiel, and 
the New Testament. I hope the whole bible will be 

translated in another year. Though we have not the 
happiness to see souls converted to Christ as we could 
wish, yet the Lord is much enlarging our sphere of ac- 
tion. We now preach once a month at Dinagepore, and 
twice a month at Malda, to both Europeans and Ben- 
galees. We have also congregations at Mudnabaity, and | 

at Moypauldiggy. Hurry Charon, Sookmun, and Yarder, 
will J trust be found in the right way at last. Our friend 
Mr. Fernandez appears to have felt the power of the 
gospel, and I am not without farther hopes at Dinage- 
pore. Our school increases, consisting at this time of 
nearly forty children. However we may be discouraged 
at times, the true light has begun to enlighten these dark 
regions; and J am persuaded it will never be extin- 


guished, but shine more and more unto the perfect 
day. 


| beaſts ran fiercely at him, and gored him in a moſt ſhock- 


* 
— 


N 
b 4 "> {3% Ser 
* 


er n gibt ft acer 


rnfO DCA. | ACCOUNTS, - 


7 INTL ft -3 8 2 $61;:3-SF 7 pm VE FA 49D 


» tit ESE 17 NGO HITS R tot 3th is 
» 1 et I end. 
unt | Lission Socie * 
SORES 2981-5421 1011890 Ati Ot 


2 eon ite, 
* 
ee, ut *. 
j * 5 #: «4 » * 10 
1 4 1 K "3 . C-T at} 


* * 1 * — 
I. Sir . k 2% * 
* 120 © 5 \ 
£ , p 14 


EXTRA ACTS OF Lerress / 


s 2 . x MM * , * « AD 
/ 7 (/ 0 i; 7 — <1d 7 
, LOA RS 
* * 7 ” 1 
64 # 1 2 * 


0 133 
: 111 


24 


kf, 4.4 eff 3 4 20 13 SY 1 92 


ABCEIVED: 


FROM OUR BRETHREN IN INDIA. 


n 4. g Ss 1 ORNT SR as 4 341 16511 8 


6 £ * ” 7 — 
1 2 > 4 3 * 
4 10 315 oy H 11151 Ai FI . 11802 


Mr. Tomas to o Mr. antes Kettering. e340) 


* e xs Pfoypauldiggy, Feb. 22, 17971 
—— LA3, we know not what a day may 
bring forth! be moment I awoke one morning; I Was 
pierced with the'cries of two meſſengers who requeſted 
me to go and fee a poor neighbour 1 ſix miles diſtant, 
who the night before went with another man to drive two 
wild Buffaloes out of his rice field. One of theſe evil 


ing manner. The horn penetrated through the breaſt- bone 

to the back, and the air paſſed through his wound from the 

dungs. I went to ſee the poor man; found his pulſe very 

quick, and his breath very ſhort. Dreſſed him, as I would 

myſelf, and came away: but the horn went; through my 

wert AS well as his; yea, it went a heart. I 
0 | a per; ; 


x Thi 18 letter, though "Ie! as above, was not received till after iis 
publication of No. v. 


was ſo preſſed down and ſhocked, that though I knew he 
was ſtanding on the laſt Rep of the wharf of time, going 
to leave us; and launch blindfold into eternity, yet 1 
pre not fay much to him. I aſked him whether he 
thought he ſhould recover? He faid, yes. I told him God 
was able to raife him up; but if he ſhould die, where 
would he go to? He did not know. I then aſked him why 
he went ſo near the buffalo? He gave a wiſe anſwer to 
my fooliſh queſtion: „It is of God.” But ſuch expreſ- 
ſions are fo light and common with them, that their wil 
of God, and our bad luck, ſound like ſynonymous terms. 
Ah! faid I, that God who ſent a buffalo for you, will 
ſend a fever for me, or ſome other diſeaſe or diſaſter; ſo 
we erh all Gn ſoon, or” We VE all 2 795 ' 


_ 
> 8 
8 


The! houſe was ſo er and * bo” I was fo over- 
come with ſenſible objects, that I loſt ſight of ſpiritu! 
ones, and could not recover myſelf. The poor man be- 
fore me, with his hand on the dreſſings; another holding 
him up, for he could not bear to lay down; the ftreaks 
of his own blood ſtill remaining; the quickneſs of his la- 
bouring breath, and the idea of the horn in the boſom, 
filled me with a pity for the body which ſeemed to over- 
come all pity for the ſoul; I left him, went out, and 
found they had placed a ſeat for me in the open ſweet air, 
where about a hundred of them were aſſembled to ſee me; 
and now I was a little moved with pity for their pe- 
riſhing ſouls. I talked with them very earneſtly, and 
aſked them many important queſtions, while ſome laughed, 
ſome ſmoked their hookas, others talked; and all diſco- 
vered uncommon indifference and ſtupidity. I thought 2 
Miſſionary ought to be of a very quiet temper, but many 
other things however are want ing beſides quietneſs; and 
above all, what life he lives is of the utmoſt conſequence. 
Not merely = laborious life, a zealous life, a watchful 


„ ee 6a e Mi V9 CCA 


_- TW” - 


| K. | 

life, 2 harmleſs life but a life of faith on the Son of 
God, is by far the moſt important of all qualifications: 
and juſt in proportion as this is the caſe with him, ſo far 
the croſs of Chriſt is bearable, the yoke of Chriſt is eaſy, 
the burden of Chriſt is light, and the work of Chriſt ſweet 
and pleaſant, whether ſucceſsful or not. I have tried a 
thouſand ways to render myſelf a good miſſionary, but na 
way like this. I have reſolved, re- reſolved, vowed, 
faſted, and fainted after all; but in the life of faith it is 
not ſo. The difference is 8 _ of a Urne at ou my 
or AED the wind. 0 


I aſked this people what would honing a them aſter 
death? They ſaid, they thould go to God. To God, 


faid I? Can you go into the preſence of the Dinagepour 


Rajah ? Will he. receive you, and be pleaſed with you:? 
They anſwered, No, no; we cannot; Oh no.—Then 
how could you be received of God? He is holy, you 
are ſinners; he cannot bear to ſee ſin, you are nothing 
elſe; you have done evil, but you have never done good; 
you have never worſhipped God, nor ſerved him. How 
can you go to God? He hath declared, © Every tree that 
bringeth not forth good fruit ſhall be eut down and caſt 
into the fire; a fire that is never quenched,” The pains 
which this poor man ſuffers, will ſoon be over; but in 
hell there is no reſt, no eaſe, but weeping, wailing, and 
torments without end. You are finners: Do you think 
God will puniſh you for your fins? „We do not know,” 
Not know? What think you then; Suppoſe a dacoit & 


were to come in the night, plunder your property, and 


kill all your women and children, and go away. After- 
ward ſuppoſe he were taken, brought to juſtice, and con- 
demned: and ſuppoſe the magiſtrate would not puniſh 
—_ would you think him juſt and good? “ No; if he 


& cruel and dreadful Robber, 


243 
| SS | 
be juſt and good; he will- ſurely puniſſi evil-doers.” God 
is infinitely juſt and good, and will cherefore furely pruiſh 
ſibners:: “ We do not know what he a for we: have 
not ſeen him. Senn Him? How can fowiTeenhim: with 
theſe eyes of fleſhꝰ Vou fee: his dbingsz:am for. you may 
know: him! Suppvſe another Rajah Were to come to Dis 
nagbpbur,: and yu Ne aw him If when the floods 
came and deſtroyed your crops; he ſhould command all 
his ſet vantꝭ to ſſleœe you mercy, and to deal kindly wich 
you and if inſtaad of rigorouſly demanding your rent, he 
| ſhould order all his ſervants to relieve your diſtreſies, aud 
| ſupply your wants; would you ſay, We do not know 
what he is, we never faw him? God hath done all this, 
and more. O did you but know his word ! You are all 
indebted tõ him: and yet does he not ſend you clouds with 
ram to water your fields; and give you all things to enjoy 
Has he not preſerved you all theſe years: and you nut 
know what he is? Do not you ſee: theſe heavens, this 
earth; and the work of his hands ! Do not you ſee yout 
own bodies? „We are not human beings. Not human 
beings! What then, are you dogs or jacicalls? What a word 
is this: not human beings! Do not you talk ? Are yon 
not as much human beings as I am? The medicines that 
heal meh Do not they heal you alfo? Phat which kills 
you; Will it not kill me alſo? Ves, yes, you are human 
beings, and will exiſt for ever. Vour bodies will die, 
but your-ſouls- will go to heaven or hell. At the end of 
this world your bodies ſnhall be raiſed from the dead; and 
you muſt be brought to judgement for your ſins. The 
pains and ſorrows you feel in this life are not the puniſfa 
ment of ſin, though they are the conſequences of fin. If 
you ſeize the dacoit, and tie him hand and foot, that is 
not his puniſhment for murder: if you caſt him into priſon 
and he there ſuffers pain and want, neither is this his pu- 
niſhment : but when the judge comes, ſentence is paſſed, 


9 = 
and executed upon him. T hat is his puniſhment. Sd 
when a ſintier is ſeized with the pains and torrows of this 
life, and when his ſbul“ is caſt intonhellz this is part of 
the terrible proceedings againſt him. But when his ac- 
count is brought out, for God keeps account of every 
bid thought, and every ill word, and will bring them out 
againſt you in the judFetnert,)* When the ſentence is paſt, 
all his own fins will lay hold of him, and ſink him into 
the bottomleſs pit, Where he will ſuffer but cannot die. 
Now, if God were to touch you with his finger, you 


would perith. like the moth z. but then you will feel the 


weight of his arm, and will not, cannot die. Never, ne- 
ver will you relt any more; never eat nor drink any 
more; but cry out for ever and ever. This is hell. I 
tell you the truth. I ſpeak not my own words. I am a 
finner like yourſelves... Theſe words are from God, from 
his Shaſter which will ſpread all over the world by aad 
bye. Sin is dreadful. Hell is a dreadful place. If you 
ad but know this, you would not fleep this night for 
trembling; Vou would come to me and enquire, "What 
you ſhould do to be faved? And I know. I could tell 
you; for God is good. (Jod ſent a prophet, who told 
the world that a SAvIouR was coming; and he died. 
God ſent another, who toretold more of the Saviour; 
and he died. God ſent more, and they all Tpake of the” 
Saviour; and they died. Hundreds of years after, God 
ſent this Saviour, and fulfilled all their words. The Sa- 
viour of the world is come, and you have not heard of it. 
While he was upon earth, the blind came to him, and he 
gave them fight z the deaf, and he opened their ears, &c, 


Kc. 


* CLE x 4 | Farne 


But they rte“ not at at are! win theſe things. 
I took my leave, intreating them to think ef what I. had 
lad; to pray to God, and to eme Hd heat mel en 2 


4 765 * * 


— 


445 


Lord's day; reminding them that we had but a little time 
to ſtay in this world. After an hour I leſt them, to all 
rep r eee 5 


e b. 
N 2 5 | 1 = 


* 


| EXTRACT 8 oF LETTERS 


RECEIVED 


FROM OUR BRETHREN IN INDIA, 
From May 22, 1798, to April 5, 1799. 


Mr. FouxrTAIN to Dr. R 


e ee 


eee May 22, ed 
1 HAVE not more than once or twice ſeen your na- 
tural face, and have now nearly forgotten what manner of 
man you were, but I perceive there is no neceſſity for hay- 
ing a perſonal knowledge of any man in order to love his 
character; and think I love thouſands whom I never {aw 
in the fleſh. Being however acquainted with the concern 
you have for the miſſion, I ſhall uſe neither formality nor 
apology in introducing myſelf to you. Having written 
to another friend a few days ago, I have little or no intel- 
ligence to give; but one end of my letter will be anſwered 
it it induce you to write in reply, as ſcarcely, any infor- 
mation from England can be unintereſting to me. 


While brother Carey has been tranſlating I have fre- 
quently ſat by him and noted down the changes which have 
been judged proper to introduce in certain paſſages. He 
ſubmitted ſome to your judgment, and I wilh now ſend a 


ſew more for the like purpoſe, 


— — 


Gen. i. 2. * Earth was without farm and void. Every 
thing muſt have ſome form. The Heb. word is in Ifa. 
xxxiv, II, rendered “ confuſion,” and Deut. xxxii, 10, 
« waſte.” In the tranſlation a term has been uſed which 
ſignifies © unſettled.” This appears to have been the ſtate 
of the earth, when firſt produced, for till the third day 
the liquids and ſolids were intermixed: but on that day 
the waters were gathered togethr, and the dry. land ; BP 
peared, | ISA 


; 2 SP 
Gen. it. 3. God created and made.” Heb. « hich 
God created % make,” Does not creation ſignify the 


bringing of being out of non- entity; and: making, the ſub- 
ſequent modification of matter or bringing it into order ? ? 


Deut. vi. 8. „As frontlets between thine eyes.” 
The Brammhans, and I believe ſome others, retain to 
this day a diſtinguiſhing mark between their eyes. Thoſe 
who are worſhippers of Beeſhnu call their mark Teelook, 


It is a ſtraight ſtroke from the middle of the crown to the 


end of the noſe, Other Brammhans put a ſtraight ſtroke 
acroſs their foreheads called Treemundul, This is done at 
their evening worſhip. Others put a curved line, called, 
Ohdha Chunder, (i. e. half moon) acroſs their forehead 


for the ſame purpoſe. 


— Xii. 3. Break down their Pillars.“ It is 
rendered in the tranſlation their Statues, according to all 
the languages of the Polyglott. It ſeems to refer to the 
ſtatues of the heathen deities. i 


The dialect is fo different in different parts of this 
country, that even proper names greatly vary; and differ- 
ent writers uſe great variety in ſpelling. Brother Carey 
luppoſes it impoſſible for the beſt Bengalee to ſpell right in 


n in dies) you * 42666 & of At bs OY plies men- 
tioned i in the Periodical Accounts, mn the franner in which 
they are commonly ſpelt and pronounced, with the way in 
which it appears they ſhould be written. —Malda, Ho 
de, Maldoho—Movpaul, MoheepalMudnabatty, Modo- 
nabotẽs— Bolahaut, Bhoflahut—Lulla, Nala.— I nay alſo 
obſerve, that cheſe names, like moſt of the names of per- 
tons and places in chis country, have an N TIER fig- 
nification of theſe' i asfollows:— Fe 2 - 


034 - 40 KR 133 441 K 4 


C3. Ls 


..  Maldoho: a compound Perſian, word. Mal means 
wealth, or treaſure ; bo, a hoje. When joined, the word 
Kterally means, The Hole of Wealth.' This name was 
given by che Muſſel mans after cheir conqueſt of Hindof. 
tan; andi is very. properly applied. It is now adjacent to 
the ruins of Gowr ; and many are of” opinion that it was 
once a part of that great and ancient. city. Therefore it 
was as propetly called Maldoho, "as the county of Mis. 

dleſex, or London itlelf, mehr be 27 The Rechjl- 
cle of Wealth: 15 185 7 


I 


* 


Moneepal, the place where brother Thomas reſided, 
is called after the name of a Rajah who lived there. Me- 


hee ſigniſies the earth; and pat, nouriſhment. Literally, 
The Nourifher of the carth. 


— 


_ - Modonabotee, the place where we reſide, derived its 
name from a Rajah who lived here. Haden, is, very 


beautiful; 3 batee, 18, ere. Literally, 4% ah of 
eau. 


rom 
> be 


448 
„eee 

Bhoclahut, a place near Malda, dignifies, 4 market f 
miſlakes.  Bbala, a miſtake ; but, market. | i 
Nala e (Period. Fe III. 196.) i 10 called 
from Nala, a rivulet; and gunge, a ſtillatory: viz. A Ail- 
latory by a rivulet. Such it is at this day. But as ſeveral 
merchants reſide there, it is commonly cal ed, bi « Nala 


| Gola... Gola is a ſtore-houſe. 


I cannot 1 3 having. an intention of wri- 
ting to brother Pearce by this ſame poſt: but would in- 
treat you to remember the words of the Lord Jeſus, © It 
is more bleſſed to give than to receive.” Let me not for 
ever enjoy this bleſſing alone, but be thou a partaker 
thereof, 


Nature in zeal for 3 amity, 
Denies or damps an andivided joy. 


J. F. 


Vour's &c, 


SRI en 


„Birmingham. 


Mr. Four AIN to Mr. P 


Mudnabatty, May 28, 1798. 
A FEW days ago 1 cloſed a letter to Dr. Ryland, 


in which I intimated an intention of writing to you. Since 


then I have received one from you. I would tell you 
what I felt at reading it, but the attempt batfles my wiſh, 

I now feel ſorry that I have written as if my friend, and 
the Society itſelf, had forgotten me. I love you. all too 
well to give youa moment's pain, and muſt now þ that 
love to obtain your pardon. 


I have ſein your letter to-brother Carey : the encou- 
ragement you give us to write freely, tends to relieve my 
30 


” LS 


= => 


FRY 3 
n 


and —— 
2 2 


N 3 
1 4 


. 9 
1 n 


* 


2 


1 
1 
* 
i L 
* » 
oY » 
*1 
= % 
8 5 
1 * 
4 þ 


being able to converſe; and as I keep a journal, ſhall bon 


man being a mere machine. On the firſt Lord's day in 


nature and evil of ſin, one of the principal people who 


422. 


mind from dach Misty Aud - "my J have never fel 
inclined to diſſemble, raſpecting any thing that concerne 
the miſſion; but have often wept to think how the truth 
müuſt, in many caſes, grieve your mind, and the finds of 
all who ſo earneſtly wiſh for our ſucceſs. To find how. 
ever that you in England are not diſcouraged, will I hope, 
be a ſupport in my work, arid a il to my activity. 


Wu ſay, © Accounts of converſations with the native 
would be intereſting.” This is but che beginning of my 


this time note any converſations that may appear intereſt 
ing, and ſend you the e n. 


In your letter to brother Carer, you deſire to bere- 
membered to ſeveral perſons whoſe names you mention, 
I told Parbotee of this yeſterday, and ſaid to him, «Par- 
botee, we have juſt received ſome letters from our country 
wherein your name is mentioned. Pearce Sahib, a miniſ- 


ter of Jeſus Chriſt, gives his love to you. It would af- 


ford great joy to all the ſaints in England to hear of your 
being a decided follower of Chriſt.” He made many ex- 


cuſes on the ground of moral inability, and ſeemed much 
perplexed. 


The Hindoos are very ſond of cheriſhing the idea of 
March, after brother Carey had been preaching” on the 


heard him, ſaid, He had never committed any fin in his 
life.” Others joined the converſation, and ſaid, We can 
do no wrong. We are only inſtruments : our will is God 
in us.” Brother Carey then talked of particular fins, and 
faid, if you commit theft, 'lewdneſs, or murder, are they 
not _ ſins? They replied, © O, no; it is not our 


felt 
The 
ruth 
Is of 


OW. 


8 1 
fn; it is God that does all.” He uſed many arguments 
to ſhew the folly and wickednely of ſuch. ideas; hut none 
ſcemed to touch them. At laſt he faid, Well, If you can 
do no fin, Come and eat ſome of my rice with me to day. 
It will be God's doing, and not-'yeurs ? With this they 
were ſtruck dumb. Tue people, who ſtood around them 
liſtening to all that was ſaid, ſet up a loud laugh, which 
they could not help joining, though it was againſt them- 
ſelves. After this, they went away. IL ſuppoſe they would 
ſooner have murdered a man, or have been hanged them- 
ſelves, than have eaten, or eyen touched any ng: which 
was dreſſed for us! 


I thought of your labours of love laſt Lord's 7 when 

I was preaching to theſe poor ſouls from II Cor. iv. 5, 
* We preach not ourſelves, but Chriſt Jeſus,” &. I 
began by telling them that the goſpel was not a ſyſtem 
deviſed by man, to diſplay his honour or goodneſs, but 
that it was all concerning Jeſus Chriſt the Saviour of ſin- 
ners. The preachers of it do not ſeek to diſplay their own 
wiſdom, but the wiſdom and grace of God. I told them 
I had come hither to be their ſervant for Jeſus ſake ; de- 
fired them to conſider me as ſuch, to come and be taught, 
to aſk others to come and hear the golpel. I informed 
them how many were labouring and praying for them in 
England; and Oh that I could but ſee the fruit of theſe 
labours and prayers! I ſhould be entirely diſcouraged were 
it not the work of the Lord. He I know wil neither 
faint nor be weary. He will become the God of the whole 
earth! Bleſſed be his name for what he is now doing 

among the Hottentots. I long to hear of the ſouth-ſca 
Miſſionaries; and of thoſe who are labouring among the 
American Indians. 

8 ' Your's &c, 


J. F. 


* 


451 
wt 
{4x0 15 1 3 ; | 24: 7) te! 1 . 21 


M. eue to Mr. F— 


Kettering. 


Po 


bio n ei = - Mudnabatty, July 45 155 

v4 1 RECEIVED: yours of Sep. 6, 1797, a few days 

ago, re with ſeveral others; viz. from brethren 
Ryland, Morris, and Pearce, my Father, and Siſters, and 
from the Rey. Mr.: Newton; all Which I hope ſoon to 
anſwer, but as there!is a chance of my getting this off by 
the: ſhips under difparch I haſten to write. to you. | 


134 TY 


I am ſenſible of his ht e me by our beloved 
Society in appointing me their treaſurer in India, and 
mall labour to acquit myſelf in a becoming manner in 
MaNBing the affairs which may come under my care, 


At this time all. my attention is called to do what! 
can to repair the ravages of a very calamitous flood, which 
has juſt ſwept away all the proſpects of this year; and of 
ybich you can ſcarcely form a conception. About ten 
days ago I went all over this peighbourhood, when the 
proſpects were charming. The fields were covered with 
Rice, Hemp, Indigo, Cucumbers, and Gourds. On 
Friday laſt I went over the fame parts in a boat, when 
not a veſtige of any thing appeared; all was a level plain 
of water, from two to twenty feet deep. On the weſt 
of our houſe the rivers Tanguan and Kankir ferm an 
iſland, of about three miles —.— and ten long. On the 
eaſt the Brohmanni and Purnabobbha form a ſimilar iſland. 
Theſe four rivers may be ſeen from our houſe, and are all 
inſignificant {ſtreams from October to May, about two 
cubits deep. Now a Boat of 100 Tons will not only go 
down the rivers, but over all the iſlands formed by them 
and to an extent far below the conflux of the rivers; ſo 
that two large lakes of three miles wide, and at leaſt fifty 
miles long, are tormed by this flood. They are both within 


452 
: 0 5 
ſight of our houſe; and will dry up in October. The 
ground will then be re- ſown, and produce fine - crops. 
There are ſeveral Villages in which the waters have riſen 
to the eaves of the houſes. 


Brother Thomas is gone from this part of the country, 
and is now in the neighbourhood of Nuddea. Brother 
Fountain has begun to preach, and will be well underſtood 
in a little time. 

Ia my laſt I gave you a brief deſcription of Indian 
fruics. Could J ſay more about. fruits of grace, ſome ac- 
count of theſe things might be more entertaining. Happy 
ſhould I be if inſtead of this, I could tell of converſion to 
God, churches formed, and chriſtians dying in the faith 
of the goſpel. But having ſo little to ſay at preſent on 
theſe pleaſing topics, I fill up their place with what are 
leſs intereſting, and now proceed to deſcribe the moſt va- 
luable production of the eaſt, namely Rice. 


Rice: Oryza PWT is a plant of the Hexandria digy- 


nia claſs and order. There are various ſorts of it culti- 


vated, but I ſhall only mention four, as being the, chief; 
viz. Bhadae, Boona, Hemut, and Bora; which from their 
being ſown at different ſeaſons produce four harveſts in the 
year. 


The Bhadae is ſo called becauſe it ripens in the Month 
Bhadur, or Auguſt; and is largely cultivated on mode- 
rately low ground. It muſt be obſerved that rice is an 
aquatic plant, or rather ſemi- aquatic; for though the ſeed 
muit be ſown in dry places, yet it always requires about 
four inches of water to bring it to perfection. There are 
two ſorts of land in this part of the country; viz. a fine 
loam, and a {tiff elay. The higher parts of the country 


—— 
— Lan 22 


— * 


— 2 
— 


2 — i 
IE 


453 


are of the latter, and the valleys, or rather lower lands, 
are principally of the former ſort. The water is therefore 
detained in the higher lands by little borders, which ſur- 
round the cultivated beds; and are about 10 inches high, 
and from ꝙ to 15 inches wide. The beds are of any ſize, 
or form; but the ſurface muſt be perfectly level, that the 
water may be every where equally diſperſed: and in con- 
ſequenee of thoſe ſmall borders, the whole country appears 
like a ſea after rain. In the low loamy ſoils theſe borders 
are not made; the floods being ſufficient to ripen this kind 
of rice, which is cut in the rainy ſeaſon. This ſort, viz. 
Bhadae, and alſo Boona, are ſown in April and May. 
The weeds are afterwards cleaned out by the band, and 
they require no farther labour. It is neceſſary however 
ſor the ſecurity of all the crops to keep watches every 
night, to drive away the buffaloes and wild hogs, which 
otherwiſe would certainly devour the whole produce, 
Much Bhadae is alſo planted on the clay lands' when the 
ſeaſon for ſowing. is over. There is an obferyation of 
Sir J. Chardin, cited by Lowth on Iſaiah, page 168, 
Note; the propriety of which I queſtion. It is certainly 
however contrary to the practice here: and were it adop- 
ted, no rice would grow. He ſays they throw the ſeed in- 
to water, and then turn in the cattle to trample it in. It 
is here ſown on dry ground well plowed; or if on wet 
ground, the ſurface is made perfectly level, and the feed 
lightly ſtrewed on it without being covered at all. I ſuſ- 
pect his obſervation aroſe from ſeeing them plow clay land 
tor the purpoſe of planting rice : for this is ſoft mud at the 
time, with four or five inches water on the ſurface, Rice 
when about eight inches in height, is tranſplanted inte 
foil of this deſcription. 


The Beona, from Boonon to ſow, is never planted 
put, but only ſown in the Joweſt places. If it has time to 


454 

get ſtrong before the floods come on, it will grow as faſt 
as the water riſes, which is ſometimes a cubit or two in a 
night; and it will proſper in water from one to fifteen 
cubits deep; nay I have heard that it will riſe with a 
flood to twenty cubits high. If a flood however comes on 
it before it gets ſtrong, and covers the top of it for a few 
days, it generally dies; as is the caſe this year with a very 
large quantity. This ſort ripens in November. 


The Hemut rice is planted in July and Auguſt, and 
ripens in December; which is the principal harveſt month 
in this country. This is almoſt entirely cultivated in 
clay lands which are of ſo cloſe a texture as to retain the 
water after the rains are over. Water is fo neceflary to 
ripen rice that laſt year the greateſt part of it died for want 
of rain; and this neceſſary article of lite is now double the 
price it generally ſells at. This ſort takes its name from 
Heem, Cold, becauſe the harveſt is in the cold ſeaſon. 


The Bora is only planted in ſmall quantities at the 
bottom of ponds, nearly dry, and other low places where 
it can be conveniently ſupplied with water in the dry ſea- 
ſon. It is planted in January, and rivens in May, 


The Boona grows to ten or twenty feet long or more, 
and being carried forward by the ſtream, the corn often 
falls on another man's field, while nothing remains on the 
field which was ſown but the roots; and many quarrels 
are occaſtoned thereby in harveſt time. The other ſorts 
of rice grow about as high as oats, which they alſo 
ſomewhat reſemble in their fructification. 


After the rice is reaped, it is carried home on the peo- 
ples backs: for they have no waggons, and though they 
have an awkward fort of carts, yet ſcarcely any farmer poſ- 


AS 


4 e . — — 2 
GERT C2 2 * ——— 


== 


X . - , * of Þ by 
- " > pul oe Ir. > Ps: nb . — - SS. 
_ Ark = ii Ft ET — — — — TEES 
_—_—_— 3 — — *- 2 re q P 
2 - _ - S, -2 — i =— 5 PSs FA 
- . 7 — 2 IE 7, NETS = WH 
— — 5 ——— —— 1 — ˖— 
— _ — a = EIat 6 = \ 
— 1 9 3 x _— 
— — — — — — = — = 2 — L = \ 
ER os 25 bedat --— -— 6 
_ pr ig — 4 : 8 - * = 
_ * =_ * — OG =_ - — — = A 


7 1 hh 
4 111 
y $6-+ 2 
* UN 2 
! 4 
1 0 
* y 
, Aar 
Nn 
8 q 
A T8 1108" 
! PA O's 4 
e 
A 45 
I, . 
* . 4 
25 ito 
Nin 
/ * 
1 ' 
SE! 
1 7 
A 15 8 
5 44 
* 1 
Nene 
Ne. 1 
* 947 
© 9% 4 
„ — 1 4 8 
oh M 
N wa 
+338 TE 
RAS. 
R736 
a * 4» 
it TY Y 
4 0 
Ti 18 * 
een 
NN 
1 
Ul 14 48%” 1 
WEIR th 
18 1 
I = 
11 
1 4 
9 7 
. 
1 
75-4" EL 
LN 1 
A" 1 
un. 
i 5 
. 
70 
1 
3:44, 
1 
1 
* 6 1 
„ — 
* 75 
: 
Fg”! 
"Wi 
FR 
r 
"8 
* 27 ' 
1 1 
. 
* » 
. 


— 
2 Era 2 


— * = - — 
n . 
— - = eg 5 = 8 
"Fx; 2 -- + 2— N 
” * * — 
of S > — DES — 
5 — — a. 
1 „ why Le — 6 £45 1 
5 2 3 * 2 
23 TTY - == 
— . a; 2 Ee 
— - -” - _— 7 9 + 
M 9 1 "3 2 x I-25 


485 


„8. 
ſeſſes one; nor are they ever uſed to carry home their 
corn. It is then trodden out by bullocks; four or ſix 
of which are tied to a poſt, and made to walk round 
and round on it till it is clean. Or if the quantity be 
very ſmall, it is not thought worth while to bring the 
bullocks, and a perſon taking the ſheaves by the but end, 
beats the ears on a board, which with three or four 
ſtrokes to a ſheaf, beats out the corn. The rice thus 
beat out, ſomewhat reſembles barley, being like that co- 
vered with a hard huſk. This the Engliſh call Paddy, 
but I cannot tell why. The Bengalee's call it Dhan. 


In order to ſeparate it from the huſk it is boiled in wa- 
ter, and after being dried, is pounded in a large wooden 
mortar, mentioned in my letter to brother Morris, of 
Dec. 5, 1797.* Or when the Rice Merchants prepare 
a great quantity, another inſtrument, called a Dhenky, 
is uſed. This is a lever, about fix feet long, and fix 
inches ſquare; which is laid on two ſtumps fixed in the 
ground, about eight or ten. inches high, by means of a 
horizontal pin paſſed through the middle of the lever: 
and at the other end from the perſon who works it is a 
perpendicular pin with an iron hoop round it, which falls 
into a hole made in the earth, One woman generally fits 
to put the Dhan into this hole, while another, putting 
her foot on the other end of the lever, works it up and 
down, ſomewhat in the manner of weavers treadles. 
This ſeparates it from the huſk, and it is then fit for uſe. 
In this ſtate the Bengalees call it Chal: and when boiled 
for eating, Bhat. 


Rice is the principal food of the Bengalee's, which 
they boil, and eat twice a day. If they can get this, they 
account themſelves well fed: but I have known people 


2 Page 383. 


ISHS 


eat nothing but raw rice ſoaked in water for three or foitt 
days, and labour hard all the tins. Any other kind of 
ood _ ent but ſeldom. * 


F 58 2 
2 


They generally oil 8 vegetable: 8 eat 


with their rice, and ſiſn if they can get it. The Ben- 


gallees believe, and aſſert, that they ſhould- be ill if they 
were to eat much animal food, except fiſh. They have 
even aſked. me, whether we did not drink tea as a purga- 
tive, to carry off the bad effects. of animal food. Theſe 
people drink only water, and eat very little fleſn; yet 
they are able to labour conſtantly. and undergo. much fa- 
tigue; though it muſt be confeſſed that one; European will 
on n. perform, more. work than four Bengallegs. b 


. a Art BIO ei £ 
N \ Beſides, hot we — Barley, Peaſe,, iy 


ſeveral ſorts of pulſe. We have alſo. Millet, and Majze, 


and two ſorts of Andropogon, among the farinaceous ver 
getables produced in this country. We havef however 
neither Beans nor .Oats: :-All;the above,. except the An- 


dropogons, are ſown in October, ande igen Mae, 
but wi wot — nk nah 


og yidnes ve woflater oz 
1 now conelule- May. merey: and peace bg,with! your: 


and yours. When will your piece againſt dejſm ap- 
pear ?. A very ſenſible young man in this country. told me: 
that Godwin's book on Political Juſtice, conrineey 275 of 
the divine ages of. ths Nen ee, 1 . 
8 94 0! Wy, 2m 1 
1 are * bleſſed be God. 1 am hithexto upheld, 
2nd I truſt I ſhall be ſo ſtill. Had we but ſucceſs 1 in our 


W works it would make every e (elle ee f 1 £2 A 
i | \ EY) "Fours e gn Tt 
Ar. 2 : oY K rt oh 7 p W. $77 \#1 
5 PE V 
. 3 1 | . 


= 5 LIES — 8 $2 =2 = K £ 
* - - - 2 5 — — Pn =. — 2 > 7 \ 
- ES: I EE: = Ne a4 HS CE He OTE] 
—— bn. — — — — — — — ron — —— — "Þp — b — 22 = _ * = 2 
2 ION ES 2 EEE 2 — — — — "$4 == > L 3 2 8 YE % 2 * 
——_—— EE nds TEE r AE . 7", We : 1 — * 
r 5 - = = CHIN — 5 3 : CERES — = \ * * * LG 0 - * 1 
2 a _ > 


15 1 
a 
18 
6 
r 
1 
A * = 
N 
* 
482 
a 


; wh 


Fan. 10 0 if\d.64 ANA 4 ee W331 
"Mr. Ho FO to a Rezarion, 885 


bo 2 St 4-44 


RA i 12, 1758. 


A FEW days ago! received your welcome letter, 
dated Nov. 170% All the accounts T have received of 
my ſiſter's death, have been very brief. Jam very deſir- 
ous of knowing how it Was with her: what fears, what 
hopes, what her dying words, her views and expectations. | 
Did'ſhe expect to die? or did the hour come, as it does 
moſt generally, at ſuch à time as ſhe thought not? When 
death comes into a houſe and into a family, it takes one 
or two away; and looks hard at the reſt; and ſays to them, 
Be yealfo ready ready at a moment's warning, to 
leave this world and all its wearifome vanities, and diſ- 
guſting pomps. O bleſſed and merciful Saviour, cauſe 
thy voice to reach our hearts; as it did the putritying body 
of Lazarus, that we may awake and riſe up and be ready, 
while in the hurry of life,” fot the meſſenger 'of death. 
You obſerve, my dear couſin; Nou are in a world of 
wickedneſs, darrouhded- With. Alnsſt every thing that is 
flattering and alluring, with hearts ever prone to yield to 
temptation, without any earthly protector, &c, &c.“ I 
am glad you are ſenſible of Jour dangerous ſituation. I 
tremble for you, and T pray for you. Your protector is 
in heaven, and he is the only Potentate. No one has any. 
power to help and protect you, but what is lodged in 
them by his hand, who has all power in heaven and earth. 
I may ſay to you as Mary the Mother of our Lord to 
the ſervants at the wedding feaſt ; «© Whatſvever HE 
| faith to you,” Do it. Does he ſay, Watch and pray? Do 
it. Does he ſay you ought to pray always and not to faint, 
nor give over, nor be diſcouraged, nor take denial ? Do it. 
Does he fay you ſhould pray alone, in ſecret, and make 
| Enown all your requeſts day by day? Ds it. Does he fay 


0 
2 R 
——— RR 


456 

: S004 

you and your ſiſter ſhould: pray together? De it. Does 
he ſay, Labour, ſtrive, look to me, come to ME!? Do it. 
I know very well what it is to have the life and power 
of religion eaten up by worldly ruſt and care, and to be 
ſo intoxicated by the buſineſs of the day as to contract day 
by day ſuch a load of guilt, fear and ſhame, and ſuch a 
confuſion in my ſou} about works and grace, as ends often 
in drowning the foul in perdition. It ſhews itſelf in 
Naaman's humour, who very nearly loſt his cure by it. 
Had the ſervants at the wedding been like me, they would 
have ſaid, What is the uſe of filling these water pots with 
wwater? Will water do? Will work do? Will duty do? 
Will means do? Will prayer do? When the devil has 
got us thus far he has little to do to perſuade us to neglect 
prayer, meditation, ſelf- examination, reading, and every 
other plain duty, under ſome ſecret pretence or other, 


And the ſoul ſoon feels the effects, juſt as the body would 


if it neglected its means, as eating, drinking, reſting &c. 
When you enter into the cloſet, if you do not find hea- 
ven there, yet do it, for he bids you. If you find the Lord 
does not appear at once, yet it is good for you to hope and 
quietly wait at his door: poſt, for the appearance of CHRIST. 
It is good, O yes it is good to wait for Him. What he 
ſays, do it, and wait and look for him. If he come to you 
and ſup with you and abide with you, as your loving, mer- 
ciful, and dying Saviour, yet living, and you therefore 
ſhall live; this, this will deaden your heart khahis world 
more than any thing. Make Jeſus your boſom friend, tell 
him all your concerns freely. Open your heart to him: 
he knows how to pity, and pardon, and help you, and to 
have compaſſion on them that are out of the way, Hz is 
2 mercitul and faithful high prieſt, let us commit our ſouls, 
our lives, our all into his hands, for cleanſing after the 
manner of the ſanctuary, for this is His work. I will 
Zuide thee with mine ee.“ Let your eyes be up to HIN, 


r LO ES. 


6 


rd —_ 

13. Nod 

* 1 

11 * 

F 7 

þ e 

144 U. 

es 464 1 
448 +35 
1 2 } > 

. * 

7 N - 
82 . Fob 
1 Wo. 1 
$1 Wl 
10 N 

18 3 

= bs, WAL 

n 4 14 A = 
i | 2 
? 19%, 1 
* 1 1% i 
3=4 8 
" 
10 L. 
N. EE - 
4 F 30 
bil 18 by 
11 a 
ie \ T y og 
11 NNE 
l 
1 he ©. 

Act F! U 

* 
1 ' 
5 5 

* 9 
5 cif we 

1 8 
We. | 
ug * 

1 
55 „ 

} 12 84 
55 us a. 

5 5 

1 4 

14 4 

bu m5 

" ot 
1 

NR " 
F.Y 1 

9 

. 544 

+ 

Wr q 5 

b Why 
10 yn 
p 8 6 1 3 

N . 

42 47] : M0 
n 
\ 10 i G 
199. 9.87" 

4: 1 
Ai 

{ 

1 1 
q ; RE 10 
1 
be tor 9 Fi 1 
1 1 b 
Wy \ ! 

1 I I 

. \ 

: oh 

G 1. 

1 . 

21 
} F 
e 
Li 
4. 
Wi 4 
5 * 
f. % 
1s * 
«al 
414 (+0 
i\ } 
*\ 44 { 
1 * 
14 
a * 
= 23; + 
WF 1 bs” 
12 7 1 
1 1 
IF * 
[4 I 
\ * 
ie 
* 4 ? 
IF 
N 
. 8 
78 1 5 
[0 "IT +.) , 

1 „ 1 

1 
e 

19 ry i 

ey" WT 

% " 

. 

- {OCR 1" 

en 

3 1 

e. 
$1.45 

iT 4 

ho” 

h Ws 

1 J 

54 

* 1 

7 


2 
EET IST oe ee 


. — 


eee , 
as the eyes of ſeryants are on their maſters and miſtreſſes, 
ready to fly at their command. O ttis the ſweeteſt life 
upon earth, tb be acquainted witk:CurtsT,as Mary and 
Martha and Lazarus were]; ſo as to have him come to our 
houſes often, and to enjoy him Jin the cominon concerns 
oflliſe, doing all we do in the name of Jeſus; and if any 
body is remarkably kind to us, we can then ſee plainly, 
tis H has: done it, as ſure as ever he gave Joſeph favour 
in the ſight of Pharoah: when the world frowns, tis He 
Hath. the management of this alſo, and he will whiſper and 
ſay, It frowned on me, before it frowned. on yqu. May 
Ixsus CHRIS AH be all this to ycu, ſpiritualizing," and ſo 
ſanctifying every ſwert, and noc leſs rendering truly bene- 
ficial to you every bitter of life.: If ever you come to In- 
dia don't think at leſs flattering and bewitching than your 
warld 30 tis ten times more ſo. Here Cod is every where 
forgotten and if worſhipped any where, the true wor- 
ſhippers are few. indeed and thoſe, unknown to each other. 
Here Satau's ſeat is, and his flag flies all day long: Here 
Hz is worſhipped and adored, There is but one place of 
greater darkneſs, and that is hell itſelf. If it were not for 
my engagement in the Miſſion, I would come to Old 
England to morrow, and kiſs: the ground I trod on, and 
water it with tears of joy, as the glory of all lands. No- 
body knows what health is, ſo well as thoſe who have 
loſt it. J had rather ſell holy ballads at the chapel doors 
in England for my bread, than live in India like a Naboh. 
I own indeed that the light of God's countenance can 
make any place pleaſant and delightful. It would turn 
hell itſelf into heaven if the damned could but enjoy it. 
But deſtruction from his preſence is the darkneſs:of hell. 
My dear couſin, tell the Lord all your wiſhes about India, 
and though I wiſh you were here for my own ſake, yet I 
wiſh you may never come here for your ſake, unleſs you 

obtain ſome extraordinary due and ſpecial direction ſo 


to do, and providence make your path very clear indeed 
before your face. I knew two young women who appear- 
ed to belong to Chriſt, who came out and drank into the 
gay Hicit of Calcutta, and were great loſers in grace for a 
few you” and chen the * wer chen pong out r it by 
death. DIS 1101 83H 


th 


LARS 


* * 
5 1 
4 — » K . on 9 i 
14 
3! 4 A SS » 


mes — — 
4 J " - 2 — — — 2 l * 3 
= — — — —— ä rer * 5 
_ 8 — 5 - _— — 6 rf : 2 * n 
p 5 go ** = — 2 — — — x - _ - — 
— : g > 2 — WT 3 PID — _— — —— 8 pg 8 bh = — 
r.. . . — — CFE 3 _— > MET 
— * a bh — — 2 . 8 3 * * 
EF I =— Tx — 1 
$A 8 F ˙ Aꝛ̃ vu Es 8 
— — _———— — 4 — 8 - - > - 1 8 — Tx 
— — 8 ET — EE. = — * 6 . * 
2 * 3 2 - 8: * E — * — — — 
: : \ 1 £5 i - — — 4 . + \ 
— 


A DE — — 
— — — — — 


A +. 
5 
——— 


Mrs. T. my felt and 4 Beth have lately lived in a boat, 
40 chat a ſmall one, fo that only Betſy could ſtand up- 
right in it. We were a long time on the water, and en- 
countered fome ſtorms and dangers: at laſt when the rain 
came in, we fled wo this place for ſhelter, where we have 
taken a little dry and airy houſe” till the rains are over. 
Waile we were moving into the houſe we obſerved the 
hand of providence” in one inſtance very viſibly : we had 
tacen all our trunks, baſkets,” and ſtuff of every kind out 
of the boat, and then, and not till then, a plank which the 
water worm had eaten, gave way, and down ſhe went to 
the bottom, though ſeveral men attempted to prevent it 
by bailing her: had this happened in deep water and far 
from ſhore, you would have heard no more of us till you 
had ended your DR 


. 
BR 
. 
„ 
. 6 
1 [! 
[i 
0 

' 


I wiſh I could tell you of the fred of Chriſt's cauſe 


here; the goſpel is preached, and tlie word of God, that 
ſource of true riches, comes on by a tranſlation: but when 
will the Lord grant teſtimony to the word of his grace? 


be ene 7 © Your's &c, 


1 


461 
eee. 


* * . «9 * 
« ſ A 8 1 ö ar "P 28 


10 Mr. Tromas to a Reva TOR. 


* Aug. 24, 1798. 


FOR my oth; my. deny couſin, the Lord has led 
me lately into the valley of humiliation, and into ſuch 
troubles and darkneſs that I ſeemed like one againſt whom 
the heavens above and the earth beneath. were at war: 
every proſpect of uſefulneſs comfort and deliverance, was 
taken away. Like a man, who, having two houſes full of 
goods, on finding one robbed and emptied, ſoon flies to 
the other to ſee what he has there; ſo it was with me. 
Being deprived of all earthly comfort,. I fled from this 
world into the world to come, to ſee what I had got 
there; and after taking a careful inventory, I ſat down 
happy and contented after all, and ſang this ſong, with an 
inexpreſſible melody | in my heart. 


1 And didſt Thou from eternity 
Deſign to fave a wretch like me ? 
Without a ſpark of real good, > 
Found welt'ring in my guilt and blood? * 


2 Who eiſe my heart of ſtone could move, 
And give this heart to dread and love? 
Who did this glorious work begin, 

And loos'd me from the love of ſin? 


3 Shall I not keep Thee then in > Me 
Where'er I go by day or night? 
Shall 1 not ſweetly meditate 
On grace ſo rich, ſo ftrange, ſo great * 


4 And didſt Thou Lord from fov'reign love, 
Chooſe me to realms of bliſs above 
All through thy well- beloved Son, 
Before creation was begun 


What can I do? What can I ſay ? 
s I ne'er deferved---I ca'nt repay- 
Loft in thy wond'rovs love, I fall, 
And cry, my God, my life, my all. 


2 


G Shall I now ſeek ſome new delight, 
With thoſe who never ſaw thy HET ? 
O never, never let it be; 3 
I] chofe no pleaſure but in Thee. 


462 
„. 

Thus a man's life conſiſteth not in the abundamce of 
the things that he poſſeſſeth : but even while he is deſti- 
tute of earthly friends and comfort, and all things conſi- 
dered in a ſtate which mankind commonly reckon miſer- 
able and wretched, one ſmile from above turns his dark - 
neſs into light, and he is as happy and contented as Solo- 
mon in all his glory. D aſk why I have not written? 
The truth is my health has been broken and interrupted, 
and:my ſpirits ſo dried up, that I could not write with 
any comfort to myſelf, or with any hope of pleaſing my- 
friends: and even now I am obliged to uſe ſome compul-. 
ſive: methods, for the weather is exceflively hot, and I 
am otherwiſe much indiſpoſed; but on the other hand ” 
have ſuch an enormous debt to pay in letters, and ſuch a 
Jong journey before me, that I muſt compel ae to write 
to you. - | 38 MILLY 2 GOL IG I 


KT p — — N — * — we) © 
— ne rr nr ron ns — — — — w ESR 
— 8 _ — 2 5 > & 
3B. 


- _— — = 
* . —. . ——— — I 


r non — ö Ty 
3 — = 3 -3. = — 2 
- — —— > >. — — 
— — —— —_ 2 2 3 
* So ES. 2 =y 


As to ourſelves, we are N 2 for my OW11 
part, I hardly expect any certain dwelling-place any more 
in this world. My time is ſhort, and the inconvenienca 
is ſmall. If I get the Jowefthabitation-in heaven, I ſhall 
be to all eternity a monument of the riches of grace and 


mercy of- God. in Chriſt-Jeſus. 


«7 

3 

1 4 
5 
b 

1 N 

10 

i 75 
1 
: 
4 o 
FLAY 
Pan 

F 
5 
Vn 
* 9 * 
3 

Y 
mo! 
272 

x” 157 

K 
ad 

. 

n 

Fry q 

12 

"3. 

. . 

; 

1-8 

F Mite /* 
4 4 
* c 
' uy 

$4 
bs 
q 4 

„ 
, þ (6 
dh 
15 
1 
16 
1 
41 y 

1 of 
We.” 
% 
Av 
. 
1 
17 
4 1 
1 
F. 
1 N. 
804 

v 1% 
4 

[F i» 
4 Vs 
iF [LY 

3 

F_ 
N. 1 
" 1h 
7 - 
m5 

Ti. 

n 
| = 
woo .- 

H 5 

"8 

168 

(1,8. 

: 122Þ by 

5 1 TH * 
3 

1 : 

AI: 

IT ny 
"= 

1 

4 „ 

„N 

„ 1 * 
TY 5 

RN 

NN * 

bo vii 

| n 
_ 

Te | 
* 

1 

* LI 

. 7 

a * 

4 

+ eck 

AS * 

* 

20 N 

qo g 

; A 

48 

1 © 

Is 5. 

\ Pe 
114 
— 7 t 

» . 

Len 

1 

My: Wer 

* * 

1 
1 

145 

vil £1] 

14 
2288 
Wo | | g 
4 1 

Fl 

7 

a 

1 


ai 
- 
Mr 2 = 
= k - 
3 > 
2 
= = 


No great work has yet been wrought by us as Miſ 
ſionaries: men have been moved and affected various Ways 
by the preaching of the goſpel, and we continue in ex- 
pectation of ſeeing the Lord's hand revealed to ſome of 
them. We enjoy ſome tokens for good, and encourage- 
ment to patience of hope. Various ſtriking providenses 
{till attend us, and though the Lord's houſe 'is not built, 
yet a great deal of rubbiſh is removed, and the way of 
the Lord, by all theſe means, is prepared; his paths are 
making ſtraight, and we expect him to come. 


I do not know -any undertaking which requires ſo 


463 
much of the hand of God directing determinately, as the 
work of a Miſſion. A man had need have ſomething of 
that aſſurance which the Apoſtles had when they ſaid to 
the lame man, Ariſe and walk; or elſe the ſpirit that ſtill 
works in the children of diſobedience will ſay, Jeſus I. 
know, and Paul I know, but who att thou? It is no 
little matter for a man in this line to keep up his ſpirits; 
no little ching for him to keep himſelf as a veſſel meet for 
his Maſter's uſe. If however a man has really got a 
Miſſionary's faith, though it be only like one poor ſingle 
grain of muſtard ſeed, that will prove ſufficient to carry 
him through every diſſiculty, and ſupport him till he has 
accompliſhed the will, delivered the meſlage, and 2 
all the errand of Him that ſent him, 

* have juſt Kb the Goſpel. at 4 — Chundee, 


where it was never heard before. 
| | Your's &c, | 


- = 


Mr. Carey to Mr. WM, Clipftone. 
Mudnabatty, Sep. WY 1798. 


= A CONSIDERABLE time ago I wrote to you, 
and becauſe I wiſhed not to loſe any opportunity, I began 
this ſeyeral months ago, though now copying it under this 
date. Several opportunities of ſending to England have 
gone by without our knowledge; for we do not ſee the 
news- papers till about ten days after they are publiſhed, 
which you will ceaſe to wonder at when J inform you 
that a paper coſts a Rupee, or about two ſhillings and 
| four-pence Engliſh; we therefore do nat purchaſe them, 
but are indulced with ſeeing them from ſome of our 
txiends after they have read them, This is ſufficient to 


see. 

explain the vealorirwhiy fingle ſhips have a es with 

out a letter from worry oeh 4 10 ik 71 5 

mis ban a bavglhs 6 ny £2 es 07 big ne 
- Nekithnthy What 1 have e meren urltten e 
oh 'on the peculiar' areſs of the natives, yet T'never”faw 
any part of their code which edüld juſtiy ſtamp their 
character with immodeſty, even in the judgement of more 
poliſhed nations. Tt muſt be confeſſed that the lowerelaſſes 
art noiſy and boten quarrelſome, and abuſive to a great degree. 
This IS not ſurpriſing when it is underftood that there isno 
ſuch thing as keeping ſeerets among the'people of Hindoſ- 
tan but whatever two perſons know is publiſtied without 
reſer ve! Their quarrels are all in public, and the con- 
tending parties, oſten ſtanding at the diſtanee of half a fur. 
long, pour out their abuſe in the moſt impetuous manner. 


Men of the higher claſs, however, are as well behaved 


as Europeans, though it muſt be acknowledged they are 
more ſervile; and all-clafſes are very complaiſant, much 
more ſo than the Engliſh.. The higher women, owing 
to their being conſtantly immured in their houſes, appear 
quite fooliſh with ſhame; entirely covering their faces on 
the approach of a W N and paving ſo " _ as 
Tearcely t to ve heard. - 5 


4 


* 


In former 81 have given you ſome account of 
1 Utenſils of the natives, and ſhall now add a little 
more on this ſubject. Thoſe uſed in Huſbandry claim the 
firſt place. You' muſt underſtand that no horſes are ever 
uſed in the buſineſs of agriculture here. All work is 
done by Oxen; and ſome Caſts uſe Cows. It requires 
two to draw a Bengal Plough, which draw double or r fide 
toe” 8 ” wa popes. ina 


; 4 s N . 4 
' ö g q % ». 41.» wy „ — = „ „ Wy 
S— 4 = . . 5 1 0 : 4 : — 2 * 


» 7 8 ** * 
, 43 BE 
3 2. N ” It ? 


_ \ 
7 ug 
Mbit A-. 
MW I, 
Ry 4 9 
1% * 
W 
e 51 
Mig 
5 . 1 x 
LS LINN 1100S 
488 f 
uy 
2 2. by bl 
. ien. 
5 Mar WR i 
WF *I 
181 7 40 
$34 74 FS | 
174 þ x 
5 h ral 
mh - y of 
nn, 
1 2 
44 q 
JF * * wy 
n 
* . 1 1. F 
eu "HL | 
N ' 1 
Ut 18 20 
. 1 
nl 
„ 
br _ 
"yt Þ 
1 7 
iT 75 
1 — 
i 8 
ei 
» \ ty Pp 
1 
0 P Et 
. [ i 
45 10 * 
N. f " 
"4:8 . 
— N 
1 \ 
| « . 
"FS b 
1 i ts WR 
1. 7 
To \ * 1 
1 = 
k P f k 
x 4 * 
N. + 
þ 5 
e TW 
ts 7 i 
7 
f WHY as 
F:, P4S7E 
197% WP 
+107} i 
4* er 
3 * ** 1,7 
96 Fs 
Larne 
41. 8 Ten 
&H91 16 .; 3 
A 2 
+ FEY 
i 4 v4 
LY: i - 
1186: + 1H 
. * 
1 
$491} i 
Me 
411.0 þ 1 
J » 1 9 
A 
1 { * 14 9 i 
i” 4 2898 
4; (4.26 
P #140) 
ns mu 
! N 145 
1 1 3 
GAS \ 7 
14 
„ 6 
* 
q $5 * bl 1 
a. x 
} 4 
WES. 2 
! l oy. 


1 
x . 
4. 5 
oh 
1 0 
A" by 
A 
1 
„ 
* 
1139 


25 


465 


eee 


.* — is the moſt n — 
hs. It conſiſts of a crooked piece of wood, ſharp at 


one end to enter the earth: under this end is fixed a plate 


of iron which forms the plowſhare. A bamboo of about 
two feet long is fixed to the other end, which makes the 


handle of the plough; and in the midſt a long ſtraight 


piece of wood, or bamboo, called the Eeſb, which goes 
- between the bullocks, and falls on the middle of the yoke, 


to which it hangs. by means of a peg, and is tied by a 


— The yoke is a neat inſtrument, and lies over the 
necks of two bullocks at the ſame time, juſt. before the 
hump on the ſhoulders, and has two pegs deſcending on 


the ſides of each bullock's neck; by means of which it is 
tied with # cord under the throat. There is only one 


man, or boy, to each plough, who with one hand holds 


the handle of the plough, and with the other guides the 
animals, by pulling them this way or that by the tail, and 
drives them forward with a ſtick. The land requires 


from five to ten plowings to prepare it for the ſeed; and 


one plough will be ſufficient for from ive to ten Biggats, 
or from three to ſix acres, | 


The Harrow is 2 more ore ſimple inſtrument ſtill; being 
nothing but a wretched piece of a ladder, made of bamboo, 


about four feet long; a cord fixed to it, ties it to the yoke, 


and the driver ſtands on it while the oxen draw it along, 
holding himſelf up by putting his hands occaſionally on 
the rump of the beaſts. This drawn four or five times 
over the land is ſufficient to break the clods, and make 
the ſurface ſmooth. The plough is called Nungul; the 
plough-ſhare Phal; the yoke Fooal; bullocks, plough &c, 
compleat, are called Hall; and the harrow, Afwvy. 


You will eaſily ſuppoſe that ſuch feeble ihſtruments 
are inſufficient to break up new land, abounding with 


„„ E 


ſome of our ſorts of ſtrong, graſs, which riſe from ſix 
to fifteen feet hig. To prepare ſuch land therefore for 
the plough, the roots muſt be dug up, or rather hoed up, 
for no ſpades are uſed here; nor could theſe people, who 
wear neither ſhoes nor ſtockings, conveniently uſe them 
if they could be obtained. They have a very excellent 
inſtrument however, called a Kadalee, which anſwers the 
purpoſes: of a ſpade and a hoe. It is in the form of a hoe, 
with a handle about two feet and a half long, and the 
iron as wide and ſtrong as a ſpade; which not only ſerves 
to clear away the roots in huſbandry, but anſwers the 
purpoſe of a hoe and a ſpade in gardening. I had hoes 
made here after the Engliſh manner, but the pedple de- 
ſpiſed them, thinking their own Kadalee ſo much better. 


T have an Engliſh ſpade which they uſe to dig up plants, 


and trees, and they prefer it to their own ; but could not 
uſe it conſtantly for the reaſon above mentioned. Land, 
after it has been plowed, is cleaned by the hand ; and be- 
ing inconceivably more foul than in England, that part 
of the labour is very great. The people however are to- 


lerably good farmers, and are diſpoſed to ſpare no pains in 


cultivating their land. 


Watering land is here an eſſential part of huſban- 
dry: for rice muſt always grow in three or four inches of 
water, and high land cannot be plowed. in the dry ſeaſon 
till it has firſt been watered. For this purpoſe they have 
an inſtrument, called a Fant, which conſiſts of a hollow 
trough of wood, a little curved, about fifteen feet long, 
fix inches wide, and ten inches deep. Having erected 
two or three bamboos on the bank of a pond, or river, in 


the form of a gallows, they place this trough on the ho- 
rizontal beam. One end of it reſts upon the bank, where 


a gutter is prepared to convey the water; and the other 
end dips into the river, by means of a man ſtanding on a 


Might ſtage near 8 and plunging it in with his 
foot. A long bamboo, with à large weight of earth at 
the farther end of it, is faſtened to that end of the Jant 


ner the river, and paſſing over the gallows before men, 


tioned, poiſes up the Jant full of water, and cauſes it to 
empty itſelf into the gutter. Qne Jant will raiſe water 
three feet; and by placing them one above another, it 
may be raiſed to any height. Poſſibly this may be the 
FE watering: with the foot,” 2 mentioned 1 in Deut. Xi. 10. 


Waggons © or carts are neyer uſed in huſbandry ; ; and 
the manure is carried out on men's ſhoulders by means of 
à yoke, and a kind of circular baſkets, called: Bbarua, 
| 2 5 of twiſted bamboo and packthread. The yoke, 
Which! is only a ſtraight piece of bamboo, is carried on 
one ſhoulder, with one weight falling behind, and the 
other before. Almoſt all weights are carried, in this man- 
ner; but if they be very heavy, a bar, called a Saing, is 
uſed, juſt as the ſpies brought the bunch of grapes from 
Eſhcol. I may obſerye that the yoke is called Bak, with 
2 ſtrong naſal ſound. | ; 


They reap all their corn, graſs &c.; and ſeythes are 
unknown. The ſickle, called K gha, ſomewhat reſem- 
bles an Engliſh « one: it has teeth like that, but it is not 
a ſixth part fo large. An Engliſhman would not pick one 
up if he ſaw it lie on the high- way; yet with ſo wretched an 
inſtrument, theſe people are very good reapers. Weeding 
is performed with an implement called Paſan; but this, 
and ſeveral others, being indeſcribable, I intend to fend a 
ſmall aſſortment of them to the Society, encloſed' in a box | 
of curioſities which I am preparing to ſend to brother 
Pearce. | 


You requeſt me to journallze the occurrences of a Gay 
or two, To gratify you. I will do it; dbough many Cit- 


48 
| eumſtances muſt appear trivial. Let me inſtance the 
18 e. viz. 8 23, 245 25. ee 


es 23. Tan Ps Av Ore fun-riſe, ak AC> * 5 
andi to my uſual practice, walked into my graden for Ws 
meditation and prayer, till the ſervants came to family 
worſhip, which is conducted alternately by brother Foun- 
tain and myſelf. In the morning, when the factory ſer 
vants, and my own labourers are preſent, the ſervice is 
performed in Bengallee: in the evening, in Engliſh, 
To day, being Lord's day, the labourers did not attend, 
only the ſervants. Brother Fountain read Pſalm. Ixxv, 
expounded it, and concluded in prayer. After this we 
break faſted. Very ſoon afterwards two men arrived with 
a letter from the Sabah of Bou AN, * and a preſent of two 
Hill Mino's, a kind of bird very apt to ĩmitate human ſpeech. 

L inſert a tranſlation of the letter. Tranſlated twenty verſes 
of the xliv chapter of Jeremiah, when it was nearly time 
to attend public worſhip, which began at half paſt ten. 
The congregation ſomewhat leſs than for ſome time paſt. 
J began by reading the xvi chap. of Iſaiah: ſung a hymn; 
prayed; and ſung a ſecond time. Preached from Eph. vi. 
12, 13. Mie wreſtle not again/# fleſk and blood, but againſt 
principalities, againſt pruvers, againſt the rulers of the dark- 
neſs of this world, againſt ſpiritual wickedneſs in high places. 
Wherefore take unto you. the whole armour of God, that ye 
may be able to withſtand i in the evil day, and having done all, 
to fland, I introduced the ſubject by noticing the impox- 


— — — 


a — * 8 122 : 5 5 x t . 2 . : 
= SF REIT ESSE s — — — din Dad fu —— 3 * 
— 2 2 2 n "Ls = — — 8 — — © FIR: — — = \ 
— — . — Fox * . K — A 90 tha l A X 1 
=> . ——— ere II 2 2 . 2: LT. Br r — - 
n £ ads. — . 2 — E 7 4 


. 


I 
— 


N 
ty SY 
' 5 * (> 
Nn 
9 * 
e 
$i. 1 
2 00s 12hÞ 
pF 43 
4 
. 
© 0 
by 
1 
EY 
=o, 
wu. 4 
FE 
14 
1 
[ 9 
14 
F Ns 
14408 
bp t 
14 i 
N 4 
4 1 
1 1 
9 45 
FM , 
218 
Þ 2 
17, [4 
2”, 2 
1 
144 
M 
. 3 
* 
1 
4 + is 
* ** 
: nyt 
4965 
af 
11:8. 8: 
TR 
+ un! 
1105 
Wes 
i " 
? + y 
3 
6 4 1 89: HY 
Wh: 
n (1 
21 
4 oh; 
” . 
Th vt; 
£28 
e 
1 
12 * 
”* 
e 
: 0 
' N. 
ai 
5 * 
; = 
Tl 
n 
1 
IM 
41 
Ly 
. 
Hs ba 
bt 
3.09 
1 
516 
4 
15 
* 1228 _ 
+1 8 
ti q 
7 i #3 l 
be ET 
11, 6 IM; 
1113.48 
e . 
| 
4 
, 1 by 
. 0-088 
on. » 
FI is [ 
14 2 
$025 © 
1 
515 ' 4 
A 
4 . 
"* W 
1 N 
1 1 
3:18 
Wy 
1. 
3 FF; 
4 
4 
=. \ 4 
0 1 
Ti 
. I, 
+; ' 144k 
J ; 
4; 
| 34284 
. l 
TY 


e- ES 


*I have conformed to the corrupt writing of Geographers in ſpelling 
this word. The Bootaneſe call it Bhote Des. Des is the Hindoo word 
for a country: It is therefore called the country of the Phoutes, or Bhots, 
with the o ſounded long. They call themſelves  Bhors. - 


+ This letter, with an account of the anſwer to it, were inſerted amongſt 
a few brief extracts towards the cloſe of No, V. p. 437, to which the 
reader 1s refexred. 


» 
4 4 = = 2 E* =D < = 
— be + mage — 5 wy — Se Sx 
Wn 4 * 8 
— — 


13 * * — 
_— A b l he”, bk. oo 
— - g 4 _ * 


2322 - * 


* — * 4 — — 2 
— - 2 — — 5 r 5 — 2 
WE 2 C * r * "+ 2 — * — — — — — 2 8 
5 — : 2 NI a 2 2 — 8 8 yy 8 ne” 19 8! 5 — = — = 
3 Is — 7 — 5 — - > 2 
1 — * ran 2 1 3 2 £ * 7 y = — 7 bo * > —_— -: 2%. i 52 > 1 
ST. 3 . — 2 — 5 — ky _ — . = » 4 t . 7 = — — *. 50 = — 1 
— - 8 - * ee. Fw, & Iv rl r 5 bc 1 — — — 2 — * OE 
— — Ai — * _ ED 3 " Y > 1 8 - : 4 2 — 8 — * 5 2 - 2 — 2 2 - 
— — 1 == © aa © — — Art r R - * E FRED * ry 2 1 $row, = 2 * = wi 
8 > = A CO A - SIT” 4 + © * — 3 2 = 
22 3 — hs: r n = = 9 
e hang _ \ 


> 2 —— — 
* — — — — . 1 
jy = r — — 


455 


tance and weight of real religion, which is not to be car- 
ried on without great exertions: alſo the neceſſity of great 
efforts to propagate the cauſe of Chriſt. I then obſerved 
that Mifſfonaries had to wreſtle with long eſtabliſhed 
cuſtoms; with idols, and idolatry; with Mahomedaniſm; 
with the intereſted claims of Bràhmmans, Gooroos, « Fa- 
Kkirs,+ and Kazees ;f who, I obſerved, were the rulers of 
| the darkneſs of this country: alſo with all the ſinfulneſs 
and unbelieving diſpoſitions of the human heart. I farther 
obſerved that if they became chriſtians indeed, they would 
have all theſe-difficulties to contend with, beſide their own 
corruptions. Then deſcribing the armour neceſſary for 
the combat, I exhorted them to take and uſe it. The 
manner was too puerile to be deſcribed; yet I felt my 
heart in a deſirable frame during the whole time, and con- 
cluded with ſinging and prayer. 5 


Some time ago I ſaw a Printing-preſs advertized in 
one of the Calcutta papers, which was then juſt landed 
from England. I conſidered this opportunity too fa- 
vourable to be neglected. I therefore wrote to know its 
price, and have ſince bought it for 400 Sicca rupees. I 
Had written long ago about types, and very lately received 
a propoſal for caſting and furniſhing them, and every 
other article for printing any large work, for 4,500 Sicca 
rupees. | Theſe expences, though heavy, muſt be borne 
by the Society ; and I doubt not ben they ma be borne 
with gladneſs. 


After worſhip I received notice that the printing: preſs 
was juſt arzived at the Ghãt from Calcutta. Retired and 
thanked God for furniſhing us with a preſs. 


Teachers. 4 Or Fakeers, religious beggars and devotees, including : 
Bhrahmachorees, $anyaſees, Byraggees, and ſome other orders, 1 Muſful- 


man Teachers. 


470 
„eee. 


After dinner, Es one of Flayel's. * in the fa- 
—_ Brother F ountain preached in Bengallee in the 
evening, from Judges x. 14, 15. Go and cry unto the gods 
which ye have choſen; let them deliver yon in the time of your 
tribulation. And the children of Iſrael ſaid unto the Lord, 
We have ſinned, do thou unto us whatſacver ſeemeth good unto 4 
thee, deliver us only, wwe pray thee, this day, — After Tea, Wt 
he read to us one of Preſident Davies ade. 1 5 


—— 


1 
— SE — 


20 3 24. Aroſe an retired into my garden Pe prayer 
and meditation. To day a great number, of perſons at- 
tended our family. worſhip; viz, . thirty-four ſchool-boys, 
twelve labourers, , ſeveral ſervants, and ſome ſtrangers. I 
read and expounded Pſalm Ixxvi; and we concluded with 
prayer and ſinging. Afterwards the ſervants all received 
orders W che buſineſs of the 4 ad ei 3t 

20 


1 lewd A 5 to = written to the Saaleh of Da 
TAN with a'few preſcriptions, - and a little good advice. 
It is a very buſy time with me now, ſo that 1 cannot go 
to ſee him; but intend to viſit. him as ſoon. as convenient: 
and then I hope to aſcend thoſe ſtupendous mountains 
which are ſo high as to be ſeen at Moypauldiggy; a diſ- 
tance of 200 or 250 miles. One of theſe diſtant mountains, 
which is ſeen at Moypaul, is concealed from view by. the 
tops of a nearer range of hills, when you approach within 
60 miles of them. The diſtant range forms an angle of 
about ten degrees with the horizon. 5 

To day I wrote to brother Thomas, who is now at 
Calcutta, and has been preaching very frequently of late, 


1 am now beginning to prepare land for the ſowing of 
Muſtard, and other cold- weather crops; as wheat, barley, 
pulſe, flax, &c, Sowing theſe now will prepare the land 


mo — . —ꝛ — - —— 


N 
[ 
| 
4 
| 
| 


47 


„es 


for receiving "RI ſeed in April. Employed neatly all 
Tas: JOE in T putling tt f Pane in Tu? Prope en 


Spent the afternoon in rad one of che Stiafters | 


with my Pundit, and learning Shanſcrit. Towards even- 
ing walked out for reflection &., as is my uſual cuſtom. 
After family worſhip, which we always attend to as ſoon 
as tea is over, I corrected a chapter in Ifaiah; and tranſ- 
lated one in Jeremiah. Aſter {upper went into my gar- 
den for prayer, Which E generally do, when the moon 
ſhines,” on account of its being quite retired,” When 
nights are dark I dare not follow chis practice for fear of 
Serpents, which are very numerous. I have known ſe- 
veral inſtances of perſons having been bitten by the Cobra 


Capella, and who have died in leſs than a quarter of an 


heut. It is but a few nights ſince I was preſerved, per- 
haps from death, by the looſeneſs of my pantaloons, or 
trowſers ; for, going into an out-houſe in the duſk of the 


evening; ſomething ſtruck againſt my leg; which I thought 


to be a'frog ; but opening the door, a ſnake. crept out, 
which was the animal that ſtruck me; but it was too 


dark for me to diſtinguiſh the ſpecies, ſo as to ſay whe- 


ther it was harmleſs or not. To day a ſerpent was caught 
which I intended to ſend to brother Pearce, but the wind 
blew it away. It was no thicker than a fine thread, 
though two or three feet long. I have ſeen ſeveral. 

Fhey reſemble a white thread. I need not ales 0 it ſuch 
a little creature 1s harmleſs. 


Sep. 25. Began wwe day 28 besdbe „ Nften babzkfzſt, 


best, or agitated a vat of Indigo; the laſt of the ſeaſon. 
Sent ſome letters to Dinagepour to go by the poſt. Was 
much encouraged by over-hearing Hurry Chaten talking 
about the goſpel O ſome krüngets who attended our wor- 
thip this morning. * heard him ſtrengly recommend it 


4.2 
ee 
to them, telling them that there was nothing of harm in 
it; but that it was certainly the right way. I took no 
notice of him, and do not know that he ſaw me. An hour 
or two afterwards, he came with them to beg a copy 
of our. hymns for moms which I ne 7 to 
write 


A8 my 1 of living i is one continuation of che 3 
line of action, not many new or intereſting cireumſtances 
occur. Our worſhip is ſtated. My retirements are ſtated. 
[ conſtantly employ the forenoon in temporal affairs; the 
afternoon in reading, writing, learning Shanſcrit &c; and 
the evening by candle light, in tranſlating the ſcriptures, 
and correcting the tranſlation. And except I go out to 


preach, which is often the caſe, I never deviate from this 
rule, | 


A gentleman, lately returned Fool Celeste, mentions 
a Captain in the army there, who is employed in tranſ- 
lating the ſcriptures into the Perſian language. WE 


>1 FTE Vour's Se, 


0 


Mr. Carty, to Mr. S, Olney. 


Mudnabatty, OR. 10, 1798. 

YOUR'S of Sept. 5, 1797, arrived a very little 
time ago, having been nearly twelve months on the pallage, 
I ſuppoſe owing to the war, which often detains ſhips in 
harbour a long time; this alſo makes our correſpondences 
irregular : but this being the ſeaſon of the ſhips arrival, 
embrace the opportunity with pleaſure, to wrige to my 
triends by their return, 


2R 


* 


473 f 


„eee 

We were laſt Lord's day at Dinagepour, FRY I 
ae to a good congregation of the natives, from 
T Theſs. ii. 13. I dwelt pretty much, firſt, On the im- 
portance of believing, or receiving the goſpel aright; and 
ſecondly, On the effectual working of the goſpel in thoſe 
who thus believe. Afterwards I preached in Engliſh, 
from Col. i. 19, 20. and ſeveral reſpectable perſons at- 
tended. 'Brother Fountain was to have preached in the 
evening; but we agreed to ſpend the opportunity in prayer, 
In ſhort, things appear very hopeful at this place. 


I now and then prefent you with a few obſervations 
on the WVor/hip, and Mythology of the Hindoos. As the 


Burning of Women with their Huſbands is one of the 


moſt fingular, and ftriking cuſtoms of this people, and 
alſo very ancient, as you will fee by the Reek Bede, 
which contains a law relating to it, I ſhall begin with 
this, Having juſt read a Shanſcrit book, called Scordbee 
Sungraha, which is a collection of laws from the various 
Shaſters, arranged under their proper heads. I ſhall give 
you an extract from it; omitting ſome ſentences which 
are mere verbal repetitions. Otherwiſe the tranſlation 
may be depended on as exaCt.—The words prefixed to 
ſome of the ſentences are the names of the original books 
from which the extracts are made,— 


Angeera. After the huſband's geath, the virtuous wife 
who burns herſelf with him, * is like an Afondhatee, + and 
will go to bliſs. —If ſhe be within one days journey of 
the place where he dies, and indeed virtuous, the burn- 


- 


It may be proper to obſerve that the Hindvos never bury their 
dead, but, if they can afford it, always burn them. If they be too poor, 


or the perſon be rendered unclean by ſome incurable diſeaſe, they are ei- 


ther thrown into a river, or left on the ground to be devoured. 


+ A kind of Celeſtial beings which are fabled by the Hindoos. 


” youy 


474 


»»S$S< 


ing of his corpſe hall as nen one 6 Wa "ow: 


arrival, 


4% 
w. 


Anda Porran. If the huſband die in another coun- 
try, the virtuous wife ſhall take any of his effects: for 


«a, 4 


inſtance, a fandal, and e er it on her 2 ſhall en- 


ter the ire wot it, * 

Reel Bede, If a wife thus burn with her husband, it 
is not ſuicide ; and her relations ſhall obſerve three days 
uncleanneſs for her: after which her Shraddha + muſt be 
properly performed. —If ſhe cannot come to the place, or 
does not receive an account of her husband's death, ſhe 
ſhall wait the appointed ten days of uncleanneſs, 4 and 
may afterwards die in a ſeparate fire.—If ſhe die in a ſe- 
parate fire, three days uncleanneſs will be obſerved, after 


which the Pinda muſt be perfotmed. —After the unclean- 
neſs on account of the huſband is over, the Shraddha muſt 
be performed according to the commandment. —Three 


* Tt is not generally known that women in certain caſes burn them- 
lelves with any part of their huſband's effects, as a ſubſtitute for him; 
but on enquiriag of my Pundit whether this be now practiſed, he aſſured 
me it was, and that he had himſelf ſeen many inſtances of it. | 


+ Shraddba, or Pinda, is an offering made to the manes of any 
deceaſed perſon, on an appointed day after his or her death. It conſifts 
of rice, and other articles, often made into cakes, and is continued an- 
aually for ſeven generations by all his or her deſcendants, called Sapinda, 
and in ſome caſes to fourteen generations by all the deſcendants, who 
when beyond the ſeventh generation are called Sa. 


1 The following law from the ſame hook will ſhew how unclean- 
neſs for death or birth muſt be obſerved in the different Caſts: viz. If a 
perſon die, or if a child be born, the Sapindas ſhall be unclean ten days 
for a Brahmman, twelve for a Kſhetra, ſifteen for a Byſha, and one 
month for a Soodra: duting which time they can make no offering to 
a0 anceſtors, or the gods, 


A 
i 
a — — —— 
W — 5 2 
. r 
I * 3 7 — 
4 2 7 * 
n S * 9 
n 9 
— 5 — = 
= DO" — 
E I 72. 


” 
=. Ln — 
. — es ns rn gn eg 
2 * —— — 7 * Do 1 
1 S £9 — 
mr — — — — — 2 CTR 
2 ——— 8 ED 
CEIW 22 Sf ET=Y. a5 — 
_ —_— l 2 
= ET Ew ERS. 
- : >. * : 
— CoA. = 
— 2 I ITC e Es 2 * 


me = roo. 


— * ers — 2 - . w 
— ꝑ —— — — 
SIE FIT Se —— oY = 


S CE ED 
=> — 
: I — 3 
— pn. 
7 4 2 


799 ůĩ — — — — 
— 


if 
iy 
N 
1 

5 
1 
. 


#735 


»SS0<- 


days after his death, the Doſpinda *. muſt be mate ' and 
after ten days the regular Shraddha. 


Goutam, " A Bithmmaneeican only die with her Hud. 
bade on which account ſhe cannot burn in a ſeparate 
fire. When a woman dies with her huſband, the eldeſt 
ſon, or neareſt relation, ſhall ſet fire to the pile; whoſe 
office alſo it is to perform the Doſpinda, and all the ob- 

h ſequies.— He Who kindles the fire ſhall perform the D/ 
pinda. —If a man have two wives, and the ſon of the other 
wife put fire to the pile, he alſo ſhall perform the Doſpin- 
da: + but her own ſon, or neareſt relations, muſt perform 
the Shraddba,—If a woman burn ſeparately, only three 
days uncleanneſs will be are 05 ders * if in the 
{rs fire, ten Nas. h Ne” | 
uc Shunker. Tf 3 100 hs before the laſ 
day of uncleanneſs for a death or birth, then the unclean- 
neſs on account of the ſecond perſon's death will be inclu- 
ded in the firſt, and the time not lengthened out. 


| Bins Pooran. Tf the huſband die in war, only pre- 
ſent uncleanneſs, or till bathing, will be obſerved for him: 
if therefore the wife burn with him, only one night's un- 
cleanneſs will be obſerved for her ; z but if in a ſeparate 
| fire, three days; and in that caſe the huſband's, Pinda 
will be at the end of three days. If the huſband and wife 
burn in one hre, they will obtain ſeparate offerings of the 
Shraddba.—If a woman die with her huſband voluntarily, 
the offerings to her, and all her obſequies will be equal to 
his, —If they die within a Iithee, or lunar day, the offer- 
ings will be made to both at the ſame time. — the per- 


* Doſpinda, an inferior offering made to the manes. 


+ This may happen if ker own ſor be an infant, or very far ofl, 
or If the dave no for, 


mW 


476 
20004 


ſon be ** ſinful 3; that is, has Killed a Rrahmman, 


or drinks ſpirituous liquors, or has committed ſome ſin in 


his former life, on account of which he is afflicted with 
elephantiaſis, conſumption, leproſy, &c., * all will be 
blotted out by his wife burning with him, after proper 
atonement has been made. -A woman with a young 
child, or being pregnant, cannot burn with her huſband, 
If there be a proper perſon to educafe the infant, ſhe may 
be permitted to burn.—If any woman aſcend the pile, and 
ſhould afterwards decline to burn, through love of life or 
earthly things, ſhe ſhall perform the penance Prazapatya, 
and will then be free from the fin. 


In ſome future letter I may give you farther accounts : 


J am but juſt beginning however to ſee for myſelf, by 


reading the original Shaſters. And indeed, when I fee 
what Sir W. Jones, Lieut. Wilford, S. Davie Eſq., 
and others have publiſhed in the Aſiatic Reſearches, I am 
aſhamed of all I write, or have written on theſe ſubjects; 

and almoſt think that their profound knowledge has made 
it impoſſible for me to ſay more. Many excellent things 
are contained in Mr. Maurice's Hiftory of Hindgſtan : but 
he has adopted many miſtakes from Mr, Halhed and 


others, who wrote well for the time; but a more cor- 


rect knowledge of Indian literature has fince pan 


* The Hindoos believe the Metempſychoks, ind ſay that certain 

diſeaſes, as Mahabhead, Conſumptions, and ſome others; alſo dreadfu! 

accidents, ſuch as being killed by a Brahmman ; and great ſins, ſuch as 
killing a Brahmman, are the fruit of fins committed in a former life. 


A perſon with wk diſeaſes, accidents, or ſins, cannot have the 

ite of burning his body performed, till an offering of atonement has 

been made ; which qualifies him for having his obſequies performed, vie. 

Dabon or burning, (in which caſe the wife may die with him,) and the 

Shraddha or Pinda. This however does no: gain ſuch an one admiſſion 

into bliſs, which is only done "oF the Labem, or the wife's dying 
with him. . a 


A L 
— 
. — — 
= 3 - n 
. ED ——— — — 2 
— — — 
wa — — ' 1 
2 —, 2 I — "Sa — = x 
—F —_ a = - l 
SI => 2 az - BE. + 
2 8 5 — — 8 3 
2 - 8 4 —_—_ 2 by + 
x RS LIT 
p 


_ . : 
— — — WI I —-0a 


— — — 


— - 7 — 
— - TUE rr erate Sant bot ore AO ore 


on oe ——. ents cs mr green 
Rs We on gn ne ET nr r 
= —— > <——4 : 7 . 
5 — S D 


„ 

„eee 

their productions. * alſo Mr. Maurice's aa 

mental doctrine is more ingenious than juſt : or rif jut yet 
he _ certainly ann it too far. 0 


— 


PI iS with phaſing: I dar of a — ſpirit . 
ing out in America, and on the continent. The fields 
are indeed white to harveſt. Staying at home is now be- 
come finful in many caſes, and will become ſo more and 
more. All nen cs be FROG und ſpread abroad, 


| | Your's x75 6 4 20 
W. 2 
Mr. FounTAIN to Mr. hs Lirix 


? 1 

1611 . Oct. 12, nou | 

JUST two years have elapſed ſince I arrived at 

this nadie: I feel myſelf at home for the Miffion's ſake, 
though I as well remember, and as ſincerely love my 
friends in England, as on the day when my eyes took their 
laft retroſpect' of Britain's receding ſhore. Should you 
think me dilatory in writing, I muſt apologize for myſelf 
as you do, by reminding you of the complaint in my head, 
perhaps not very unlike your own, and from which brother 
Thomas gives me no hope of obtaining relief. It prevents 


me from fitting long together either to read, write, or 
think. 


On the tenth of laſt June I began to preach in the 
language of the country. I had then been here juſt one 
year and eight months, Since then I have in general 
preached three or four times in a week. Brother Carey 
and I are now engaged alternately, both on week day 


eee. 

mornings, and ſabbath days. I always feel a greater dif- 
ficulty to find words in prayer than in preaching. Brother 
Carey tells me it was the ſame with him; and indeed I 
perceive it in him to the preſent day. My firſt diſcourſe 
to theſe idolatrous tribes was founded on Rev. xiv. 66:9: 
Ia another augel fy in the midſi of heaven, hauing the 
everlaſting goſpel to preach to them that duell on the earth, and 
to every nation, and kindred,' and tongue, and people. Saying 
with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the 
hour of his judgement is come: and worſhip him who made bea- 
ven, and earth, and the ſea, and the fountains of waters. 


Oh! that I could ſee more of the angels of Chriſt 
flying towards Bengal, to call men from the ſervice of 
dumb idols, to that of the living God. While I am writ- 
ing, the drums are beating in the villages, preparatory to 
one of their greateſt acts of idolatry. Preſs the AION to 
follow "y what it has here begun. 


What boſom fill'd with pious zeal, 

Doth for its God's diſhonour feel? 
What heart with generous ardour glows” 
To plead his cauſe againſt his foes ? 


"Fab the encouragement of every ſucceeding Micke ionary 
I may ſay, his advantages will be greater than thoſe who 
were here before him. Mine are greater than brother 
Carey's were, as I have the benefit of hearing him preach, 
and afking him queſtions. "Thoſe who may come after us 
will fare better ſtill; and one great advantage to future 
Miſfionaries will ariſe from having the Bible in their hands 
as ſoon as they atrive. In another year I hope it will all 
be ready for the preſs, and perhaps the printing begun, if 
we ſhould be able to procure types 1n this country. 


Lately reading the ſixth chapter of Judges, I met with 
ſeveral circumſtances which appear to be illuſtrated by the 


$ 


2 2 — - — * 
. 7 — —  —  — ——— 


— — — 
— —— 


0 
* * 
4 
—— —— _ Jo 
— —— -. "Iv. 
* p - <<X* — = 
— — > «wy — 
8 - be . 
. «a4; ir 1 K 8 
= G 2 Ar 
A, 2 — of 
2 — - 
I > 2 1 
1 P's. I 2. Tc 
- — — — 2 — 
_ 1 — 
S _ 


— — 
— — apr ere 
— 22 ==; — 
ä = re RI LS 
\ — — — 
1 N- g 3 
Las 5 =. Y 
- 2 
— : 
—— En = 6 55 2 
; g = E. = 
S 2 — 1 * 2 * 
: rs = a, l 


— Po — — — 
— ney — 5 > 
2 EE er oo a - - ; 
2 . . —— 
4 — — 22 — 1 "I 
a — 5 — nd ne IO 8 — 
* . = 2. ˙ AA : 
= = : 8 — a 
LOI 


=— 
. * — py 
— — — — 
e — —̃ — — 
— — — 22 L 22 * — 
— 3 —_ — =? 2 — 
3 
. E 
— 
8 . 


4 2 
— — _ or nn - — . 
— yo — —— wr > 2 = 
3 
— Ae ro, TEN Is we IT'S 
4 a 22 Rene * n I 
— . = — —_— 
— q e 128 — — > 20 — 
* 4 OS * 2 * 
r : — 


1 
4 7 
J 


1 
N 
118.8 
Wl 
'F 
FW 
w - — 
1 
1 
4 1 
TP , 
N 
: 5 * 
— 1 


270 
„eee. 

eaſtoms of this county. The Angel's coming and ſitting 
under a tree, anſwer exactly to the place and poſition in 
which travellers'reſt themſelves in India. One may al- 
ways ſee ſomebody ſitting in the ſhade of a great tree. 
Gideon appears to have been threſhing out of doors: and 
the ſame is the practice of this country. They do not 
make uſe of a flail as in England; but, holding the ſheaf 
in both hands, ſtrike it againſt a board. The preſent that 
Gideon prepared for his gueſt, was juſt in the manner of 
this country. In England it is'a day or two's work, to 
fetch a ſheep, to kill it, and get it ready for the table; 
but here a man will take a ſheep or a goat, kill it, and 
cook it, all with his own hands, in the ſhort ſpace of two 
hours. They cut the meat into little bits to boil, juſt 
like pye-meat in England. Thus it is probable did Gi- 
deon: and when it was done, took the pieces of meat, and 
put them in a baſket, and the ſoup. in a pot. Brother Ca- 
rey and I have often eaten fuch a dinner as this, under a 
Tree. It is nothing with us now to eat and ſleep under 
2 tree when on a journey. In this country we are 
obliged to take with us proviſions for ourſelves and our 
beaſts, there being no public inns nor roads for the ac- 
commodation of travellers. 


You will be pleaſed to hear that our ſchool increaſes 
very faſt. We have now in it thirty fix lads, They are 
of all caſts, from the higheſt to the loweſt; and of various 
ages from Ave to twenty. Surely it will be a blefling in 
the end. It is pleaſant to hear ſeveral of the dear children 
join every morning in a goſpel 1 Oh that oy may 
become the children of God! | 


This is a ſickly time. The ts are falling 7 
around us. I hear ſome medicines have arrived for us. I 
am glad of it. We might ( humanly ſpeaking) fave many 


480 
„ese 
lives, in we hac emeties and # doſe or two of l to admi- 
niſter when the fever firſt attacks them. - Brother Thomas 
removal is a great loſs to this part of the country. I under- 
ſtand he has been thronged with patients from place to place 
wherever he has been. Perhaps there never was a perſon 
in this country who has done ſo much in this way for tlie 
poor and needy as he has. The bleffings of hundreds rea- 
dy to periſh have fallen upon him. His regard to them is 
fo great, that I have known him to get no fleep for a whole 
night when he has Rad à ſurgical operation to perform 
the next day. He has many qualifications which render 
him the fitteſt ee a W that could wm ven 
be found. 


8 8 "a 


. 
. x a 1 * 
2 _ "oy 1 — 1 
- * * 
, II. ; F 


Vr. c to Mr. 7 Bimtighan: 


Mudnabatty, Now. 23z 1708. | 


TO my WE joy I lately received your's of Sep. 3y 
1797 to March i, 1798, for which I am indeed under 
great obligation to you. The contents are ſuch as rejoice 
my ſpirit, and I may with truth ſay, that next to ſeeing 
your face, a pleaſure which I never more expect in this 
life, the greateſt gratification you can give me is to ſend 


me now and then a long letter. To hear of the progreſs 


of religion in England, and other weſtern 'parts. of the 
world, is encouraging to us; and I believe if I could 
{end you good accounts of the work of God amongſt us, 
it would tend much to our, en as well as 
your's, 


This Miſſion is a ſubje& which has very much occu- 
pied my heart from the firſt; and 10 5 after five years 
5 


— 


. * 
p ms” TY 
y r 
1 
\ 4 
16 * 1 N. 
. 
Nine 
J 6 1 
% * j 
T7938 
þ - night 
n 
* 
"6 
e 
L bl 8 
+} * 
* | 
1 York 
Ws 
it i 
10 q J 
Bs 
3 4 
1 
123) L 
4 4 
vs 
wh N 
48 
80 
4 I! 7-4 
e 
33 
1 14 5 
1 
5 of 
1 ' 
1 PT; 
N 4 
tr 1 
4 ty, + 
N 
a 
44 wy. 
1% 1 
p BU 
8 
5 F 4 it 
1 
1 T5 
+13: TIE 
! Fit 
Ag. 
WA 
109 
4 1 
y N. 
5 j 
1 
wr 
* 
. 
Ib. 
SH 4 
: . 
14648 
Wis 
- 1 
Niet 
1 1 
. 
5 1 
| 1 j 
WG 
{7 & bi? 
48 0 
17 
z 
; 
1 
4 


LNG 
We 
i Þ | 
15 Wh" 
1 if 
7-0 

15 
18 
4 ". 
e.. 
5 "TY 

i 

ly 

3 0 N 

1 

1.4. 

2 

1493: 
RATS 

: l 


a £ * _ — —— — * - = — — 2 —— — a 2 7 7 a 2 = 2 
Zr r 1 S ES Es * — — I's . = " — — 
8 „ ont ＋ — — — = 8 hs yet I — * — 4 m — Do TT == k 
| WY a — 6 n ” SD NS l ror Ir 22 
5 Cafe rs EE GETS. ä 


481 
„een. 

8 from my deareſt connexions, and earthly rela- 
tions; after experiencing ſome of the advantages, and not 
a few of the diſadvantages of this work ; after ſeeing ma- 
ny hopeful beginnings end in diſappointment, and but few. 
concerning whom our hopes are {trong,; I ſay, after all 
the calculation, of advantage and diſad vantage, pleaſure 
and pain, ſucceis and diſappointment, I ſhould account it 
tbe greateſt calamity. of my life to be ſeparated from this 
employment: and one of the greateſt pleaſures FI ever 

hope to enjoy in this world, would be to ſee ſucceſs at- 
tend our, labours. I ſhall occupy this letter in ſtating 
ſome of the difficulties that attend the propagation of the 
goſpel here, together with the proſpects of ſucceſsz. 


When I ſpeak of difficulties, I ſhall entirely throw 
out of the account thoſe perſonal inconvenfences which 
neceſſarily attend a detached. ſituation, where going with- 
out ſome things called neceſſaries of life is occaſionally 
indiſpenſable. Many Europeans who have nothing far- 
ther in view than worldly gain are in the fame predica- 
ment as well as ourſelves, reſpecting theſe things, and 
they therefore ought not to be „ into * account 
of a ee n 


Firſt The Caſt. This is a PEO which I _ 
RX mentioned before, and have obſerved it to be an al- 
moſt inſuperable bar to the profeſſion of Chriſtianity, Nor 
is this all: its effects in debaſing the mind, and brutaliz- 
ing the ſoul; can ſcarcely be conceived. On account of 
this unnatural diſtinction of «claſſes among men, all mo- 
tives to exertion, enquiry, or mental improvement, are 
cut off: for the moſt honourable actions, the moſt bene- 
ficial diſcoveries, or virtuous conduct, would ſecure no 
honour or advantage to a perſon of a low caft : and thoſe 
of a higher caſt being univerſally revered as a ſort of halt 


482 
divinities, loſe no reputation by their being ignorant, or 
vicious. The conſequence is, a ſtupid contentment to 
remain as they are; a total want of curioſity; and not a 
thought about the improvement of the mind. Harmleſs, 
indifferent, and vacant, they plod on in the path of their 
fore-fathers; and even truths in philoſophy, geography, 
aſtronomy, or any other ſcience, if out of their beaten 
track, make no more impreſſion on their minds than the 
ſublimer truths of religion. They ſuppoſe the different 
caſts to be diſtinct ſpecies of animals, and therefore con- 
clude that it is as poſſible for them to become ſome other 
kind of animal, as to become chriſtians: and that the dif- 
ferent forms of worſhip and habits of life, obſerved by 
particular caſts, are as neceſſary to that caſt as eating graſs 
is to the ſupport of an ox, or fleſh to the maintenance of 
a tyger. 8 | it en e e ein 


* 
1 Th $ 


- 


- 


ſelves to be a ſort of machines, which God acts upon in 
a phyſical manner, and that they are not accountable for 
their own actions. If a man be detected in thieving, or 
charged with murder, he will generally anſwer that his 
Kopal, or forehead, is bad. By this they mean that they 
were deſtined by God to commit ſuch crimes: for it is a 
common opinion among the Hindoos that the fate of eve- 
ry man is written in his forehead; and including, in that 
opinion all moral actions, as well as their proyidential ſi- 
tuations, they conclude that all their actions are charge- 
able on God, and not on themſelves. This doctrine is 
almoſt conſtantly avowed when we attempt to preſs on 


Secondly, The Hindoos moſt generally believe them 


them the ſinfulneſs of ſin, and the guilt of their conduct. 


In a converſation which I had with a man ſome time a- 
go on this ſubject, * he roundly aſſerted that he had never 
committed a ſin in his life; for though many of his actions 
were unjuſtifiable, yet it was not him that commitged 


* See page 449. 


1 
I. . 
1 * * 
1 
In 
* [43 
* 7 1 
. 
ML 
+ 1 * . 
. 13 
. 
10 Aae 
219 
0 } * 

: 3 
43; 1/8 
125 * 
Mike,, 

. 2 5 
1:39 \ 
1). 
10 j 
16 4% 8 
— - 8 
Min i 
13 oY 
$05 |, 4 
LIE 1k 
1 
418-2. 
" Vil 
Kay 1 * 
LEE 5 
FH 
12 1 
1 "3 
16% 
LN: TS 
S 4d T - 
Wee 04. 
1 

N k "0 

>z uf 1 U 
1 8% 

: (©? V8 
} | | 
Klee 
wr 5 
in 
KAR 

Fab? , 
FILM 
1 # . 
ine 
*: 5 
ae 
4 0 

þ 0 
[4 bil 
Hg 418 
1K 
Wh 
hs 

11 
eg. 
$3.7 

9 8 

BY [i 

. | 1 4 
N 

: tk 

e 

l 

1 < J 

1144 FOR 
N 1; $M 

Uh 5. 

1. * " 

| 19 
i "i 

4 Toll * 

' as i 
on ba 
s 1 
qt "I 

; dg = 

Ca + 4s, 
by 

A... p 
19 bY 

N +8 
8 * 4 

: 17 * _ y 
.i- x 
FB 

711 
1 

. BE > — 

E128 
Wa!” 
4 

| 1 7 
, 1 j 
TI 

1 5 2 
4; * 
5 * bu F 
et 

4% LK 

tp: 41235 (4? 

44 {AF 

: . 

N 91 

i I: F. 2 

1 8 

. | wY: Pp 

: , 

f + Ml ? 

k . r 

1 : 

11 n 

7 {we 5. 

1 4 
: wy 

e 

1 1 

1 58 

f F 

Les, 

1 


wo... 
i 
BY 

bi 

\ #88 
11 


re 


Hon cu ——̃ — 
— * _ 


„ee 

them, but God. This notien prevails amongſt them al. 
maſt univerſally 3 and to clear themſelves of the inconſiſ- 
tency of charging ſin upon a hely God, which I have 
often preſſed. them with, they ay that no act of God's 
can be ſinful, though ever ſo great an enormity if com. 
mitted by a man. In this way they clear their deities of 
fn, though: their own ſhaſters repreſent them as occa- 
orgy guilty: of en, and e arocity. Som 


„Thinly, The beg af hid Hiſpakitions, wir un. 
accountable avarice.. Of theſe indeed it is not | caly 
for a European to form a proper idea; and experience 
generally teaches" all ne comers into the country at a 
pretty great expence, * , To us this is a very diſtreſſing 
circymſtance 3 as: ue can ſcarcely ever be ſure of the ſin- 
cerity of any who may profeſs to enquire about the gol- 
pel: and we find that it is ſcarcely poſſible in one year " 
form any true judgment reſpecting their pretenſions. 
hope of being employed in ſome work, or —_— 
to ſome other perſon, or of only getting a few cowries, 
will be ſufficient to induce a mau of eaſy citcumſtances to 
carry on a deception of this ſort for a year or two oe 
ty with all; the ſeryility imaginable. | 


hls, The fuperſiicin of has Nals ; hich 
couſiſts of e many things, that 1 ſhall only mention 


As T copied this letter ſome few days after T had written it, I 
cannat better illuſtrate this part of it. than by giving you the ſubſtance of 
a letter which I received this day (Nov, 24.) from the Jemindar of a 
village | in the neighbourhood. 1 had N ritten to him for the uſe of ſome 
Uate | trees, for the ſake of the toddy to ferment our bread. After ſeveral 
very fulſome compliments, he informed me that the whole 6f his Je- 
mindarry was at my fervice. 6 Indeed, faid' he, the whole country is 
'Yours 3 and 1 being poor, have obtained leay £to collect the rents of this 
eſtate, merely for my maintenance. AJ the date trees I have are yours z; 
and 1 want no more than eight anas a year for every tree. I did not 


adeee with him: he wanted full four times the real value of the trees. ü 
8 


one: viz. their veneration for the Brahmmäàns, and im- 
plieit ohedience to all their dictates, - This perhaps aroſe 
at firſt from the power aſſumed by that tribe; to whom 
even kings are commanded to be obedient. They alſo aſ- 
ſumed, and Kill exerciſe, a right to fine thoſe of every 
other tribe for very trivial offences; moſt of which are 
the factitious productions of their own ſuperſtitions, I 
believe the Britiſh Government forbids them to levy theſe 
fines ; but they axe notwithſtanding conſtantly exacted 
under the name of Praſchitys's, or atonements. And as 
no complaints are ever made to the courts, for fear of in- 
curring the curſe of the bràhmmans, no magiſtrate has it 
in his power to puniſh the offenders. The brahmmans are 
much feared, becauſe the ſhaſters'affirm that if a brahm- 
man curſes any one, the curſe will infallibly take place, 
They even record that the fea became ſalt, and the ſun 
and moon ſpotted, by the curſe of à brzahmman, There is 


in one of the Poorans, which I have read, an account of 
a king, I believe it was Parakeet, who one day went a 


hunting into a thick wood, where he left all his attend- 
ants, and wandered very thirſty to the abode of a bràhm- 
man, who had retired into the foreſt for devotion. The 
brähmmàn was at his worſhip, and fo abſorbed that he 
paid no attention to the king, who repeatedly aſked him 


for ſame water; on this the king, ſecing a dead ſerpent 


near, put it round the neck of the devotee, and was go- 
ing away. The ſon of the brahmman, a boy, coming at 
that inſtant, and ſeeing the dead ſnake on his father's neck, 
was angry, and pronounced a curſe, intimating that a fa- 
bled ferpent, Ty#/hak, ſhould bite, and kill him. The 
old brahmmin, though deſirous of reverſing the ſentence 

of the boy, was not able to do it: and though every pre- 
caution was taken, the king was bitten, and killed by 
Lykfhak. A recent inftance was related to me a few days 
280, and is alſo firmly believed. A man at 2 village near 


n * 


— e 


R 
{ % "PLAY TAP. 
r 
Mh 
I. 
N 
{IR 
id | +. 
N 
N 
4 #! - 
f ; 164 
jt 
vn 1 
7 1 
: #41 : 1 
4 ans 
fi 
; TPM. 4H 
13 
- 1:1, 
1 Ai 
* f 
* 
P Y En 
! un 
4 , 12 
* * 
* " 
: Ka 190 ** 
1 , 
1% 4 
539 1 
1 6 7.6 
WG 4 
3 Sb . 
"I; "AA 
47 17 1 
as 
f * 
9 o 
ans 
ins 
4% : uy o 
IT 1 
eee 
; 1 
: "1 in 
$ © = 1 
- 15 1 
nee 
! 4.09 MN. 
| 1% 7, \ 
) "4, TM Wi 
: | , 1 
N Wer 
e 
man Bo, 
jo {UL OY 
MW 1% 
rn 
q #8 
M 
e 
: + 40 3 
Sa 0H 
) 7 > i4&% 
: IN. 
nnn 
ee, 
1 -185, * 
' HATE BY 
— 1 FE 
: „ 
£ u I. 
rh 
W113: 35 
14h MY 
Ni.. 1 
11914100 
N : 2 
2. * 
; 10 
, [4 # 
1 "FJ =y 
. + 6.3768 
4 4 
rn 
f „ 
Wigs. "= 
: . ©” $14 
i *; 
: F > Ma 
| ; * 
|, Ti 
1 11 
"4 ' 
1 
447 EY . 
1 
208 
G 1 a 
1 
f 5 1 
1 
N * 
M «+ 
N e 
1 14> 
o 
f 4 by | N 
1 15 
1" * 
+288 \ 
/ 1 * 
[my 
1 | 
1 
i ol 
1 
f 38 
2h: 
189 
£ 8 6 4 
, 1851 
17 1 84 7 
* 9 Fae 
"4 
4 
i” [4 . 
: 1 
HO 
6 : * 
9 Cl 
15 * « 
ul +7 * 
1 $3244 
on FO. Y 
4 7 * 
17. 
iin 
1 7 
" 149 
* 
n 
144 
MJ "1 
4 
Br 8 
in N 
Q q 
1 
1 4} 
: 2 
4 ['s 4 
1 i 35 
4 4 hd 4 
Le 
1 id 
._ 
148 
* n 
N Jl Z 
12. 
* Vi 
* 
n 0 
"3.86 


— ” —k_— — 


| GS 

Malda had a child born; on which two Cobta-Capetlo's 
attended; retiring when the mother came, and always 
embracing. the child when ſhe was abſent. But one day 
the father ſurpriſed them, apparently in the act of ſtriking 
the child. He killed one, and the other made its eſcape. 
When he came out of the houſe a bràhmman aſked him 
why he had killed the ſnake? and predicted his death; 
which accordingly took place in a very little time. I am 
far from thinking that the brahmmans deſign to impoſe on 
others by theſe things: they are undoubtedly impoſed on 
themſelves; and believe as firmly all they aſſert about 
theſe Anerphes as 40. * ae of the 8 52 


-Vifthly; The nal wüsten of be to lift up thi 
fandard againſt all theſe corruptions: but this being a 
ſubject often mentioned before, I ſhall ſay no more than 
that I greatly wiſh our numbers were enlarged. I might 
alſo ſay much of the various obſtacles to uſefulneſs in our 
own hearts. ' For my own part at leaſt, I feel often tempted 
to preach as if I thought the hearts of men were invulne- 
rable; which is not only diſhonouring, and undervaluing 
the power and grace of God, who has - promiſed to be 
with his miniſters to the end; but alſo tends to deſtroy all 
my energies, and to produce a ſtupid - formality into my 
diſcourſes. Were I to enlarge here, there would dk no 
ng; the field is 10 e b 


11 wil now add a little, and indeed it can be: bot A 
little, about our proſpects of ſucceſs. Bleſſed be God, we 
are not without ane tokens for good: | 


F it; Ie 1s 3 excourditing that the eg to 
the miſſions have not been wearied out by their continuat 
exertions under ſuch inauſpicious circumſtances as have 
attended our miſſion; I mean our want of ſucceſs. Hope 


deferrede makes the heart ſick: yet it appears that; con- 
trary to the nature of things, bur brethren, and all the 
friends to the undertaking, have continued firm, prudent, 
and active. Their numbers have enereaſed, and the: flame 
has ſpread wide in. England, and! croſſed. the ſeas to other 
countries: not to be weary in well doing; even when 
ſucceſs does not immediately appear, is undoubtedly ; a ſign 
chat we ſhall reap, in e. of wor Anti Tim T 


A. 5 F 1 7. * a Ke mie T 
deen Though 1 feel but hitte intereltel in the 
ns that are taking place in the world, yet I cannot 
help thinking that the preſent commotions are paving 
the way for the goſpel of peace. God has ſent forth the 
armies of his wrath to deſtroy thoſe things which have 
long barred the goſpel out of moſt countries: iu the world. 
The way I hope is preparing for the merge of Cee 
to go fearleſs to 4 country; under heaven. 10 


Thirdly, We Ek it is true, had ſome ſevere diſap- 
pointments, by ſeveral growing cold who once appeared to 
reliſh the goſpel : yet we are not now without ſome who 
give us pleaſing hopes. A general knowledge of the goſ- 
pel alſo is ſpread far about. Our ſphere of action is greatly 
enlarged; we have a ſchool of nearly forty. children, 
— whom ſome e knowledge of the bible muſt remain. 


— 


3 a, The tranſlation of the Bible may now be 
looked upon as finiſhed; as it will be ſo before the means 
of printing it can be conveyed to us. Brother Fountain 
has begun to tranſlate from Joſhua onwards; and though 
his tranſlation will neceſſarily require a ſerutinous reviſal 
and re- reviſal, and the liberal uſe of the pruning knife; 
yet it will much forward the work, and he being indefa- 
tigable in it, will improve. I have done the Pentateuch, 


eee 


Palms; Ifaiah, Jeremiah, Lamentations, and above: half 
of Ease, and the whole Neu Teſtament. 


£. 


o FY: 


- Now, 2 dvd Sima 1 take leave of you, 
. e cy 
. * an pu ual mn eee ee 


I will thank you to mention in your next Ne of 
Period. Acc., for the information of any one who may 
with:to lei my! thing to me, that parcels may be directed 
for me to the care of Meſſrs. Tulloh and Co., Calcutta. 
For want of knowing this, ſome- body kindly ſent me a 
volume of Mr. Scott's ſermons, without a letter, or any 
thing by which I can conjecture where it came from. 

It was ſent by the poſt from Madras to this place, and 
I have had to pay thirty-two rupees, or four 22222 a 
ſhillings ſterling for the poſtage? | 


Your's c, 
| n 


Mr. CaREY to Rev. Mr. AVER Lande 


* Mudnabatty, Dec. 5, 1799. 


YOUR'S of laſt year I received, and muſt ſay, 
that it not only afforded me much pleaſure, but profit alſo: 
the juſtice of your remarks upon diſappointments and want 
of ſucceſs, was ſuch as ſtruck me very forcibly, and con- 
tributed much to my ſupport and encouragement. I feel 

myſelf determined to go on, in the name of the Lord, 
even till death; depending on him to give ſucceſs i in his 
own time, and in his own method. U 0 


488 
| 

I confeſs that want of ſucceſs in my work has not a 
little damped my ſpirits ; and that added to a ſenſibility of 
my great carnality, and unfitneſs for ſo very important a 
work, often cauſe à great depreſſion of mind. I know 
the Lord can work by the weakeſt inſtrument, but I often 
queſtion whether it would be for his honour to work by 
ſuch a one as me. Perhaps it would too much ſanction 
carnal ſecurity; or guilty Noth in others, if one ſo deeply 
ſunk in thoſe evils, were to meet with an eminent bleſ- 
bog, 


I TEE to have written to you about many things, 
but now I havè fat down I ſcarcely ſee any thing i impor- 
tant enough to trouble you with. No one expects to hear 
of chriſtian experience from me; this every minifter and 
every chriſtian in England can talk about. Nor is it ſup- 
poſed that my letters ſhould contain diſqu ifitions on goſpel - 
doctrines: more able perſons than myſelf ate employed 
in England to do this work. Every one expects ſome- 
thing of news, of important news from this country. Con- 
verſions of thoſe who were hardened in idolatries; ſpiri- 
tual converſations with pious natives; or accounts of the 
dying moments of thoſe who depar: this life in the fear of 
the Lord: but every thing ſhort of theſe things only 
mocks the expectations that have been entertained, ard 
e Lees who wiſh well! to our work. 


I can howeyer ſay nothing deciſive, or ſatisfactory, on 
theſe defired points. We lament that ſeveral who did run 
well, are now hindered ; we have faint hopes of a few, 
and pretty ſtrong hopes of one or two: but if IL ſay more, 
it muſt either be a dull recital of our journeying to one 
place, or another, to preach the goſpel; or ſomething elſe 
PE to ourſelves, of which J ought to be the laſt ts 
1 


489 


ſpeak. I therefore ſhall only ſay, that our ſphere of action 
is enlarged; that We have frequent opportunities of preach- 
ing to our own countrymen, as well as to the natives; 
that a ſchool, which, Was begun ſome years ago, for the 
children of the poor, is in a very flouriſhing ſtate; and that 
the tranſlation. of a great part of the Bible is accompliſhed, 
and I hope the whole will be trandlated in another year. 
1 bleſs God for what is done, and mourn. that ne 
more is accompliſn e. 


As I never think of returning to England, but fully 
intend to die in my work, you may eaſily gueſs at the 
pleaſure J feel in receiving a letter from any one. I 
thought myſelf highly honoured by yours, and hope it will 
not be the laſt. I ſhall endeavour conſtantly to reply to, 
your favours, and ſhall be very happy indeed when I can 
write in the language of pleaſure and triumph. This 
though not the caſe now, yet may be ſoon, becauſe he 
who has promiſed is faithful and true, and the kingdoms 
of the world muſt ſoon become the kingdoms of our Lord. 
and of his Chriſt, Perhaps it is. good that we ſhould be 
unſucceſsful for a ſeaſon, or, as I ſometimes think, we 
may be like pioneers to prepare the.way for ſome more la- 
borious and ſucceſsful Miniſters who may ſucceed us; and 
have the happineſs of bringing many ſouls. to Chriſt. 
Should this be the caſe, our labour will not be in vain, 
and we ſhall in another world ſee with; joy, that we dave 
not run in vain, e, laboured in vain. 


May che God of Abraham always ed ad pry 
you, that your miniſterial labours may be uſeful. My 
chriſtian love to any of your friends or acquaintance, who 
either know me, or care for my foul. 


Your's &cz 


W. C. 


490 
eee 


. " * . : g * w * 
* . 7 * # ; os pe 193 . „ Reg * 3 p SW 
12 * * * "6 . & IF 


Mr. Carty to Mr. þ 6 wi Us ge 


Mudnabatty, Dec. 6, 1798. 


on my flicks; were you with us you would find 
work enough for ten thouſand hands to execute; and for 
ten thouſand hearts to contrive. You would ſee every 
corner full of idols: By the way ſides the Bamoth, or 
high places, would” appear at the end of every mile; and 
facrifices to devils would cantinually excite your compaſ- 
ſion, and your abhorrence. You would perhaps feel an 
Increaſe of tender affections, excited from day to day by 
theſe ſpectacles, and labour with an ardency before un- 
known, to ſet up the kingdom of Chriſt, and to deliver 
the periſhing idolaters from the pit. I wiſh we had you 
here, for I am almoſt grown callons by theſe continual 
fights, and all that which ought to affect a miſſionary's heart 
with tenderneſs. I fee their abominations, and their igno- 
rance, and I ſometimes think them to be paſt recovery. I 
charge them with ſtupidity in my mind, and then fit down 
m guilty diſcouragement as if the hardeſt heart in India 
were invulnerable to the 1 of the Pie of God. 


But why ſhould 1 deſpond. Though ber attempts 
have been unſucceſsful, ſueceeding ones may be attended 
with a bleſſing. But ſhould even that be withholden till 
the laft, yet I cannot think that our entrance in amongſt 
this people will be in vain. We may perhaps be only fore- 
runners to prepare the way for others. At any rate the 
promiſe of God will not, cannot fail. I will go in his 
ſtrength, and make mention of his righteouſneſs, even of 
his only. 


I will not retail to you our ſucceſs and diſappoint. 
ments, I only mention to you the great neceſſity there 


00040 | 

is of ſending out more to labour with us: I am getting 
into years, and my days may be ſhorter than any one ex- 
pects. It would be a pity not to have ſome more miſſion- 
aries acquainted with the languages of this country, that 
the work may not mers; with a LE by any ſuch 1 inci- 
gent; | 


= am going to preach at Malda. . To-morrow I ſend 
a man half way with clothes, and proviſions, that I may 
not be detained. on the road; and my. groom with him. 
The next day I go on horſeback che whole diſtance, thir- 
ty ſix miles; in all which way there is no inn, or mode 
ol refreſhment for man or beaſt, but by means of the per- 
ſons ſent forward. I mention this that you may form ſome 
idea of the difficulty and expenſiveneſs of long journeys, 
in a country like this. But I bleſs' God we have ſeveral 
open doors, more indeed than we can ſupply : and I there- 
fore repeat wy entreaties for more elt, 


1 feel abel perfectly at Pe in my work as a t. 
fionary, and rejoice that God has given me this great fa- 
your,' to ©, preach among the Gentiles the unſearchable 
riches of Chriſt.” I would not change my ftation for 
all the ſociety in England, much as I prize it; nor in- 
deed for all the wealth in the world. May I but be uſe- 
ful in-laying the foundation of the Church of Chriſt in 


India, I defire no greater reward, and can .receive no 
hi ber honour. 


Your's &c, 


* 


Mr. FounTain to Mr. F 


Kertering. 


Mudnabatty, 5 10, 1795 


.ON 5 morning laſt, brother Carey and I 
parted at Malda: he to go down to Calcutta, and I to 
return home.  My-viſit at Malda has been a very pleaſant 
one. More European friends aſſembled there this time 
than I ever ſaw before. Their company and converſation 
greatly refreſhed my ſpirit. I arrived at Malda on the 
21ſt ult. and brother Carey on the 28th. He delivered 
three diſcourſes in Engliſh, and I delivered five, In one 
of theſe I attempted to repreſent the nature, neceſſity, and 
advantage of prayer; and ſtrongly recommended a monthly 
prayer-meeting to be eſtabliſhed amongſt us, as is common 
amongſt chriſtians of various denominations in many parts of 


the world, for the ſpread of true religion. On new-year's . 
day, brother Carey alſo urged the fame ſubject; and ſeveral* 


friends having ſince expreſſed their approbation, it is now 
agreed to have preaching at Malda on the ſabbath preceed- 
ing the firſt monday in every calendar month, and to 
ſpend the monday evening in prayer. We hope to ſee 
the good effects of theſe 2 before the ATWO 
of the preſent year. 


Brother Carey's ſermon on new-year's day was in be- 
half of the ſchool at Mudnabatty. The free-will offer- 
ings of thoſe who heard him have ſupplied us with a ſuffi- 
ciency to bear us through the preſent year. , The whole 
expenſe was borne laſt year by brother Carey and mylelt, 


Jam delighted and aſtoniſhed at the zeal and liberality 
of our brethren in Scotland. The Lord graciouſly reward 
2!] their labours of love for his name ſake, I perceive 


* <q 
*. 2 
* a — — 
— 2 => pe — — wo 
D Oe . —————————ꝙ PAX PLA . — — 
— Nr — — 5 — 332 * . 
— he — « > : ES 2-4 was. 9 FM WT Xs _ 
” 9 —— 3 - 3 1 3 
5 r — 2 G _— . 
fg mn — et 2 WS RES. S => a g >; 
7 — * - r E — —p * 4 
293 — apo ga 2 === 4 = Ä pw _—— 
g 22 2 = 
= 0 


- 
CE 
_ 


— 


3 
py 

bs = 

5 Y 


— 
— of em 
_ 


* 


I EX 


„ IES 


r 2 22 N 
— — — — 
, * 
FE © EY 
8 oF 
2 | 


4903 | 
you correſpond with ſome of them : pray let them know 
that brother Carey and myſelf remember ef in our pray- 
ers and our praiſs. 


Your's &c, 


" ” * * —_— 
1 . 4 3 . 
1 s 4 6 C } . i * . 5 
wYY y ” . * " * * A : ” : "_ 
, © * 
. % = * * 
8 f + ” . 4 * ” 
1 


0h Mr, Carey to Mr. yh Olney. 

Mudnabatty, April 3, 1799. 
I WISH to tetrieve 2 fout mofnents to write to you, 
eſpecially as my mind is yet warm with abhorrence of the 
cuſtom I defign to deſcribe. '-It is true ſome accounts of 
it have been already ſent to the ſociety and publithed ; “ 
but I wiſh ta give a more particular ſtatement, according 
to the mode wegus in this een y 


It may yboadferyed once for all, that the Hindoo 1 
of worſhip, and their other cuſtoms differ conſiderably in 
different diſtrifts, which may beſt account for the appa- 
rently difcordant and contradictory relations by ſeveral 
writers on the ſame ſubjects, whoſe deſcriptions have been 
taken from the practice in their reſpective neighbourhoods: 
while for the like reaſon mine may not exactly und 
with any of them. 


The whole of this worſhip, which laſts the three aft 
days of the old year, and the firſt day of the new year, is 
performed in honour of Seeb. Some reckon the preparation 
for it, which begins ſeven or eight days earlier, to be 
part of the worſhip itſelf; it is however diſtinct, and con- 
ſiſts chiefly in the beating of drums and other inſtruments, 


#Q - : =—_ Page I 72-174. 


494 
oer 
attended by a number of people called Bhettears, or bes 
lieyers, who parade the neighbourhood with dancing, odd 
dreſſes and geſticulations, begging money for the ceremo- 
nies that are to follow, preparing articles &c. But the four 
days firſt mentioned are the time that is Oy in vari- 
ous forms of orig and ſelt-torment,, __ + 4 


The firſt of the laſt three: Jaye-of chain year, == 
mah Chytre, is the day called Jol Sunyas, on which 
dead bodies of men, if they can be procured, Which is 
ſeldom a difficult matter, or if they are not to be had, 
dead mens ſkulls, and pieces of the wood which was em- 
ployed in burning the dead, are brought near to a houſe of 
HSeeb and Kallee; where they are placed in the form of an 
offering. After a little time a number of the Bhokears 
appear, dreſſed ſome. as women, others with a kind of, 
horrid vizors like digitated crowns put over their faces, 
others disfigured with paint, ſome with artificial hair, or 
hemp, or a bunch of ropes like a mop on their heads. 
Some have artificial tongues, made of fackcloth, reach-⸗ 
ing to their feet, and others go with their tongues put out 
of their mouths as far as poſſible. Some of theſe men have 
ſwords, others Khorgas, a kind of crooked weapon of 
war; others take up a piece of the wood before mentioned, 
others a ſkull ; and others have earthen pots in their bare 
| hands, containing a ſmall quantity of wood, which is 
oiled and kindled. Faking oil into their mouths, they 
ſpirt it at intervals into theſe. pots of fire, which makes 
a horrid blaze, and is thus kept up for ſome hours. It 
is accounted to be a wonderful interpoſition of Szeb, that 
their hands are not burnt, nor even the wood in the potz 
but the oil preſerves the wood and hands too, I ſuppoſe, as 
they are well oiled all the time. After thus dancing and 
parading about with theſe bones. &c., the. dead bodies, 
bones, wood &c., are carried to a river, or other water, 


495 
„een. 
8 they are thrown in. The people bathe, and-all-go . 
home; but toward the cloſe of the night e meet 17 80 
r a _ fires r ee en the coals. | 


_ he ſheond dayil is called Neel, on hich * toy faſt 
more ſeverely than on any of the other days; for on all 
theſe days they eat nothing boi led, but on chis day they 
eat nothing but meal of wheat or barley, and driuk nothing. 
In the evening a burnt offering is preſented to Seb, of Se- 
famum ſecd and Ghee, or leaves of the Beal tree, ¶ueteva 
HAurmelbs, mixed with Ne irh concludes i 
Hhip of the oy LOOWSE | M4 e ene 

WED 134-1! IN > | 
| The third Pty is a in-various e of — 
as falling from a ſtage on iron ſpikes, dancing with threads 
\ or bamboos drawn through their ſides, or ſpits through 
their tongues. The firſt of theſe is called Pat Bhanga, 
the ſecond Parſo Ban, and the third Zoobha Ban. But 
as none of theſe modes are practiſed in this neighbourhood, 
the people here end the worſhip by ſwinging, which is 
1 en pepe till the next ET the _ * ' 


The trees are - firſt ereQted i in an open ola, ao the 
ee which turns horizontally, is fixed on them fo 
as to turn freely, and a rope is ſuſpended from each end. 
After this an offering is made to Seeb, at the bottom of 
the tree, by a man who, though not a brahmman, yet acts 
as a prieſt on this occaſion. He begins by laying the 
different articles in order at the foot of the tree, or up- 
right poſt. Theſe conſiſt of rice, beaten from the huſk, 
but unboiled ; a wild edible herb called Sanchee; though 
J ſuppoſe other herbs may be uſed; a bunch of plantain 
ſome water; and two young pigeons. A coal of fire is 
then procured, and a ſmall quantity of Dhoona, or Indian 
Pitch, thrown on it: on this ſome ſmall quantity of the 


rice and herb: after this the man who officiated as prleſt, 
ſeemed as if in prayer, quite ſilent; and then puts a ſprig of 
the plant upon his own head, where he lets it remain about 
a minute. The perſon who is to ſwing is all this time 
apparently engaged in prayer, with the hoeks placed un- 
der his feet. The heads of the pigeons are then pulled off, 
one after the other by the prieſt, and the blood made to 
run down the bottom of the tree, which concludes thg 
cConſecrati ve offering. | 


The man who is to ſwing then proſtrates himſelf be- 
fore the tree, and a person makes a mark with his duſty 
fingers, where the hooks are to be put. Another perſon 
immediately gives him a ſmart elap on one fide of the back, 
and pinches up the ſkin hard with his thumb and fingers; 
while another paſſes the hook through, taking hold of about 
an inch of the ſkin; the other hook is then in like manner 
put through the ſkin of the other ſide of the back, and the 
man gets up on his feet. As he is riſing, ſome water is 
thrown in his face. He then mounts on a man's back, 


or on ſome other eminence, and the ſtrings which are at- 


tached to the hooks in his back are tied to the rope at one 
end of the horizontal bamboo, and the rope at the other 
end is held by ſeveral men, who, drawing it down, raiſe 
up the end on which the man ſwings, and by their running 
round with that rope the machine is turned. In ſwinging, 
the man deſeribes a circle of about thirty feet diameter, 
and he carries a baſket containing the herbs before offered 
to Seeb, which are thrown down by handfuls; but I faw 
nobody pick them up. 


Only two men ſwung this year at this place, and one 
of them only five minutes. The other ſwung a quarter 
of an hour, and ſmoked his hooka as he was whirled 
round, In leſs than two days I examined his back, which 


3U 


* . 
- 2 
; : 
- . - 
k * 
2 
— 2 p Son 9 — - 2 i 
: ” - : 2 — T 5 "Fx 
- : : 7 5 — : hy r r Som 2 
a—_— = - wg IE = "— . 42 * — ů rn — S N — 2 . ² af a — — 2. — Vx 2K 1 — SP nA 
989 7 CE WY My . . III? 2 * 2 7 => — — ů a> ä I... PTS. — — — 2 wg - A 0 "Z —— 2 
498 3 rms IR. - # p _ — 8 2 8 * IC 8 <= = Y 8 — — = —— 5 4 he 8 * - = RE —< IF f 3 
— y — — Ee b "= 5 
3 b 3 — oe ws 2 =— — 2 — 3 ä 2 — - — — — - 
n SALAS . De —— 5 2 rn ET: : = 
" 


* TT. 


1 


3 


497 

| „eee 

was quite well, and ſcarcely the mark of the hooks left, 
I aw a man, when he deſcended, chew ſome leaves of 
the Piper Betel, the juice of which he injected from his 
mouth into the wounds; he then applied two leaves of 
the ſame plant, and tied on a cloth: no other appli- 
cation was uſed, except a ſqueezing up of the wounds 
with the hand, and ſetting the knee of another man againſt 
þis breaſt, which he puſhed hard, holding his ſhoulders 
by his hands. I aſked the man if the pain was not great? 
He faid no, it was much like the bite of an Ant. 

I have tried much to inveſtigate the origin and inten- 
tion of this cuſtom, but nearly in vain, I am informed 
by the brahmmans, that it is not commanded by any 
ſhaſter, except the faſting. The end it is deſigned to 
anſwer is equally unknown: ſome ſay it is done for the 
happineſs of thoſe who perform it ; and others that it is 
for the happineſs of the Rajah's, or other great men, who 
have given Jaghires, or portions of land to ſupport it. It 
is not conſidered in the light of an atonement ; but as a cuſ- 
tom or ſhow: it is however generally done in conſequence 
of a vow made in diſtreſs. 


The moſt common account of its origin, which the 
natives ſeem generally to credit, is as follows. A Rajah 
of the name of Ban, who lived at the cloſe of the Dwa- 
per Nog, and whoſe daughter is ſaid to have been married 
to Kr:i/ino's Son, was the occaſion of it, It is ſaid that 
he was a Giant with a terrible form, and a thouſand 
hands; that having uſed his ſon-in-law very unworthily, 
Kriſino came and made war upon him, conquered him, 
cut off his hands, and impoſed this torture on him. 
The laſt fact is uncertain, and it is made a queſtion, whe- 
ther Ban impoſed it on himſelf as a penance, or whether 
Kriſino impoſed it on him as a puniſhment. 


498 


The ruins of Bän's houſe are ſtill ſhewn, at about ſes 
ven Coſs * from this place, cloſe to the river Purnabobbha, 
and his daughter's houſe is ſaid to be on the other fide the 
river. The Rajah; Moheepol, the perſon who dug Mo- 
heepoldiggy, + was his father-in-law. Some pillars till 
remaining on the ſpot, and the large roads which go near 
it, eſpecially a high road by his houſe from Gour to-Aſam, 
and two ſtone bridges over the Tanguan river, the ruins 
of which are near this place, are all conſidered as indica- 
tions of the greatneſs of Ban. The enormous quantity 
of large ſtones, ſculptured with repreſentations of Hindoo 
Debtas, ſhew that theſe bridges were very magnificent: 
and every ſtone muſt have been brought either from Boo- 
tan, or from the mountains in Bahar: An aſtoniſhing diſ- 
tance! At the end of every Coſs on this road a pond has 
been formed, and it is ſaid a tree was planted to accommodate 
travellers. "The ponds now remain, but not the trees. 


"i 


I have fat up till midnight to finiſh this after preach- 


ing twice in Bengallee, and engaging once in Engliſh 


Worſhip. Am now nearly ſpent. 
| Your's &, 


W. Go 


— 9K 


AN ACCOUNT OF * 
TRE SENDING OUT OF * 
Four new Miſſionaries, with Wives and Children, 
In the Spring of 1799. 
— 2. 

OUR Brethren in India having earneſtly and repeat- 
edly requeſted us to ſend out more miſſionaries to their 
aſſiſtance, the Committee has been long attentive to this 


* A Cofs is nearly two Engliſh miles. 
+ A long Pond ſo called from Deergha, long. 


6 — 3 — 4 — * — IS A F R r Err e ao” CY > 5.2 = ror ny 
9 —_ : = © 4 $I. 4 „ 4 = oO & 7 » 8 ICE AT r CE ERIE. Is meet” FI 2 2 => — 5, \ 
IN. : 4 © * 5 SS panh * ge r. SS — — r rr — 1 — — we DE: IS = —_— "3 af 
3 I” & 2 2 g Av. Dc n I 4 8 2 - —_ — : - obo Erna ca” CLE — > - T2 * «>= = = 
nan we foe * 2 - 5 4 "oa a % — Shed i RETIRE * . 1 — T = = 2 SAT 2 222 2 — as T4 * - 


—— — 
* ol 


— 
SISA, + 


8 k _—__ LY ” 4 
WW 2 
TIED — 


8 ME So 4 


C . 


| S006 | 
object; but being fully perſuaded that they had better do 
nothing than ſend. out perſons whoſe character for piety, 


intelligence, and prudence had not been proved, _ 
waited for a conſiderable time. 


| The firſt oerſan whoſe qualifications appeared to be 
unexceptionable was Mr. WiLLiam WARD, a member 
of the baptiſt Church in George-ſtreet, Hull. Mr. Carey 
before his departure had ſome ſmall acquaintance with 
him, and being at that time a printer, he addreſſed him 


do this effe&—< If the Lord bleſs us, we ſhall want a per- 


ſon of your buſineſs to enable us to print the Scriptures: 
1 hope you will come after us.” This hint ſeems to 
have remained on Mr. Ward's mind. After this he was 
called to the miniſtry by the church of which he was a 
| member ; ; and went to Ewod Hall for improvement, un- 
der the tuition of Mr. Fawcett. His amiable deport- 
ment, and acceptable talents procured him the eſteem of 
that reſpectable family. He had invitations to ſettle in 
England ; but his mind appears to have leaned towards 
India. The Committee, hearing of his inclination, ap- 
plied to his Tutor for a particular account of his charac- 
ter and qualifications, The anſwer was perfectly ſatiſ- 
factory. They then invited him to a miniſters meeting 
at Kettering, to be held in OQ. 1798, where he engaged 
as one of the preachers. After converſation on the ſub- 
ject, it was agreed that he ſhould go out in the following 
ſpring. 


On his return to Crna Hall, he addreſſed a letter to 
the Secretary, in which he ſays, „My mind is calm. 
My ſweeteſt hours are thoſe of retired prayer. The life 
of Brainerd has done me good, I would wiſh to make 
no reſerve in favour of caſe. or of the fleſh, in dedicating 
my whole ſelf to God. The Lord keep me humble, gaz- 


ing on his own lovely image; and make it my | meat and 
drink to do his will,” 


300 
While the Committee were attending to Mr. Ward, 
they were informed of another young man, a Mr. Dan. 
BRUNSDON, whoſe heart was inclined to the ſame object. 
He came originally from the neighbourhood of Perſhore 
in Worceſterſhire, but at that time reſided in Briſtol. He 
had joined the Church in Broadmead in November, 1795. 
Towards the latter end of July, 1798, a ſermon was de- 
livered at Broadmead which ſeems to have wrought in 
him the deſire of becoming a miſſionary. After thinking 
over the ſubject he opened his mind to his Paſtor, Dr. 
Ryland, In September it was thought proper that he 
ſhould attend a Committee meeting, to be held at North- 
ampton. The Committee, after converſing with him, 
thought him to be an upright, open-hearted, intelligent 
young man ; but judged it expedient that previous to his 
going out he ſhould be placed a while under the tuition of 
one of the miniſters, that his qualifications might be more 
fully aſcertained, and ſuitable inſtructions communicated. 
It was reſolved accordingly, that he ſhould from that time 
be placed under the care of brother Sutchf of Olney, ak 
the expence of the Society. 


In that 8 he continued about ſeven months, 
during which period he not only made conſiderable profi- 
ciency in uſeful knowledge, but occaſionally preached with 
good acceptance in the town and neighbourhood : and ſo 
prudent, modeſt, and affectionate was his deportment, 
both in the family, and-in the congregation, that his * 
parture was an 1 object of general regret, 


In the Spring of 1799, it was the unanimous wiſh of 
the Committee that brethren Ward and Brunſdon, if no 
mare, ſhould go out this ſeaſon. This being underſtood, 

a third canditate propoſed himſelf to go with them, a Mr. 
Wikia GranT, who alſo was a member of the 
church at Broadmead, Briſtol. The hiſtory of this young 


801 

5 5 
man is rather ſingular. © About ſixteen years of age, he 
ſays, I formed an intimacy with a young man who was 
a deiſt, and who has often boaſted of his having made me 
an infidel, With him I read Voltaire's Phileſophical 
 Difliionary, and we united in ridiculing the followers of 
Chriſt as fanatics, and perſons under the influence of the 
gtoſſeſt deluſions ; rejoicing that we were liberated from 
what we eſteemed the prejudices of the vulgar. Under 
te influence of theſe opinions I made every effort in my 


power l my acquaintance to bring the bible into 


y continuing about two years in this ſtate of mind, 
he was partially reclaimed by reading Dr. Prieſtley's Hi. 
tory of the Gorruptions of Chriſtianity, which was put into his 
Hands by an Arian : but his heart, as he ſays, being the 
fame, he ſoon relapſed into his former principles, and 
even proceeded farther : having been led to diſbelieve the 
Exiſtence of a future ſtate, he was fully prepared for 
atheiſm, and read every thing he could meet with in its 
favour. And now,” as he with ſorrow afterwards ob- 
ſerved, © there was no ſin which I could not commit 
without remorſe. I uttered the moſt horrible blaſphe- 
mies, and endeavoured to bring all I knew into the ſame 
ſtate of mind. I have reaſon to be aſtoniſhed that I was 
not made a monument of eternal vengeance. Bleſs the 
Lord O my ſoul, and all that is within me, bleſs and 
Praiſe his holy name; for he hath redeemed me from de- 


ſtruction, and crowned me with loving kindneſs, and ten- 
der mercies ! ” 


The lengths that he went in fin while an atheiſt were 
great; but they would have been much greater, as he has 
remarked, if God had not laid him under reftraint, by an 
11] ſtate of health, which at that time attended him. 


502 


He frequently felt the inconſiſtencies which attached 
to his atheiſtical principles, and by looking more cloſely 
into the writers from whence he had receiyed them, per- 
ceived their falſchood. Alſo by an attention to natural phi. 
loſophy and anatomy he ſaw ſuch evident traces of an intel» 
ligent firſt cauſe in the works of creation, and eſpecially 

in the ſtructure of the human body, as convinced him of 
the being of a ann 5 


Soon after this, being one day i in abookſeller' s ſhop, he 
met with a Mr. Marſbman, a member of the church at Broad- 


mead. Obſerving Mr. M. to take up a latin dictionary, 


he aſked him whether he underſtood that language? and 


finding that he did, he [requeſted ſome inftruftion. By 


this means they became acquainted z but it was not long 
before he began to ſneer at the abſurdities of Calviniſm, 
and particularly the doctrine of the atonement and though 
he affected to paſs for a Socinian, and not wholly to reject 
the ſcriptures, yet it was eaſily perceived that he had no 
great reverence for their authority. His friend avowed 
his principles, and defended them, declaring his only hope 


to reſt on the atonement of Chriſt, and entreated him ſe- 


riouſly to conſider the ſtate that he was in. This was fol- 
lowed by a train of ſerious reflections. He was perſuaded 
alſo to attend the public worſhip of God, which he had 
hitherto neglected. A ſermon which he heard at Broads 
mead from Pf. xiv. 1. The fool hath ſaid in his heart, no 
God, had ſome conſiderable effect upon his mind. 


He had repeated converſations alſo with his friend 
Marſhman, who inſiſted on the ſpirituality of the divine 
law, and the neceſſity of God's diſcountenancing tranſ- 
greſſion; and argued hence the impoſſibility of a ſinner's 
finding the life of his ſoul at his own hand, and the abſo- 
late neceſſity of an atonement. Theſe converſations, with 
other means, of grace, proved ſucceſsful, under a divine 


i 
1 
A 1 
+ 
7 
1 
"kg 
= 
85 
mz 
˖ * 
> 
*, 4 
mT 
a2 
o N 
1 * 
NM 
135 
, 3 
A | 
[| 
oy 
* 
' 
4 
* 
gb 
. 1 
* 
. 
8 
PD 
* 
1 
1 
£ 
"4&0 
on © 
* 
* 
* 4 
1 
WT | 
"T3 
N 
* 
N 
1 
ig l 
j 


25 tr — 
= — a PEI DRESs 
oe <2, — 5 _—_— 
= ITE 


— 
2 "IS 


503 
mSHO< 


Influence, in bringing him by degrees to acknowledge the 
divinity of the Holy Scriptures, to abhor himſelf as in 
duft and aſhes, and to believe in the Lord Jeſus Chriſt 
for the ſalvation of his ſoul. In a little time he was bap- 
tized, and became a member of the church at Broadmead. 


Alfter this, hearing for the firſt time of the miſſion to 
Bengal, and being previouſly acquainted with the vaſt po- 
pulouſneſs of that part of the world, he rejoiced that there 
were men found who felt ſuch compaſſion to the ſouls of 
the poor heathens. He then read the particulars of this 
miſſion, and was poſſeſſed of more enlarged views of the 
undertaking. From hence he felt a deſire to engage in it. 
Having reflected ſeriouſly upon it, and mentioned his 
thoughts to Mrs. Grant, he at length communicated them 
to his paſtor, and through him to the Society. 


His views and feelings on the ſubject are better expreſ- 
ſed in his own words than in any other. © I have ear- 
neſtly prayed, ſays he, that God would enable both me 
and my wife to give ourſelves wholly to him. I am con- 
ſcious of no other motive than a view to the glory of God, 
and a compaſſion for my fellow-creatures, eſpecially for 
the poor heathens, who are periſhing by thouſands daily 
for lack of knowledge. My greateſt diſcouragement ari- 
ſes from a ſenſe of my own unfitneſs: but I beſeech Al- 
mighty God that he would enlighten my mind by his Holy 
Spirit, and give me more enlarged views of his character 
and government ; but more eſpecially that I may continu- 
ally be making freſh diſcoveries of that wiſdom and pru- 
dence wherein he has abounded in the plan of redemption 
towards miſerable ſinners ; ſo that from a view of the rich- 
es of divine grace in having reſcued my ſoul from deſtruc- 
tion, I may have encreaſing compaſſion for thoſe who are 
ſtrangers to the glorious truths of the goſpel.” 


„eee 
From the time that Mr. Grant had expreſſed his de- 
fire to become a miſſionary, his friend Mr. MARSHMAN 
felt his heart inclined to accompany him. He came from 
the neighbourhood of Weſtbury Leigh, and received his 
firſt religious impreſſions in that part of the country. He 
was choſen maſter of the Broadmead charity ſchool, and 
had a conſiderable number of ſcholars, beſides thoſe who 
were admitted at the expenſe of the congregation. He 
was baptized in June 1794. After this he diſcovered a 
great thirſt for knowledge, and a ſtrong inclination to the 
work of the miniſtry. While he laboured diligently in 
inſtructing others, he was very eager to improve himſelf, 
and, coming to the Academy every day from the hours 
of twelve to one for inſtruction, he obtained a pretty good 
acquaintance with the Latin, Greek, and Hebrew lan- 
guages. After he thought of going abroad he tranſlated 
from the Latin, and tranſcribed the ſubſtance of Arabic 
Grammars. e | 


He was encouraged by his paſtor and the church to 
exerciſe at conference in his turn, and after ſome time, 
to preach occaſionally before the church in the veſtry, and 
in ſome of the neighbouring villages. He does not appear 
to have had any predilection for being employed among 
the heathen till his friend Grant told him of his reſolution 
to ſpeak to his paſtor on that ſubject, and to offer himſelf 
to the Society if it ſhould meet his approbation : but when 
he thought ſeriouſly on it, he entered into it with all his 
heart, and gave proof of his diſintereſtedneſs by the cheer- 
fulneſs with which he relinquiſhed all his temporal proſ- 
pects. He had a wife and two children, and Mrs, Marſh- 
man though at firſt reluctant, yet after prayer and ſerious 
conſideration, cordially acquieſced. He was but little 
more than thirty years of age, and of a conſtitution adap- 
ted to the warmer climates. | 


4 A 


505 
Mr. Brunſdon having for ſome time paſt formed an 
acquaintance with a Miſs Hirons, a member of the baptiſt 
church at Fairford in Glouceſterſhire, and who was wil- 


ling to accompany him, they were married previous to 
their going out. 


Mr, Fountain alſo before his departure from England 
had formed a connexion with a Miſs Tidd, a member of 
the baptiſt church at Oakham; and having correſponded 
with her from that time, ſhe, with the conſent of her 
friends, agreed to go out with the preſent company. 


In the month of April, brethren Fuller and Ward 
were in London, and agreed with Mr. F., ſupercargo of 
an American ſhip, the Criterion, for a paſſage. She was 
expected to fail about the middle of May. The Maſter 
of the ſhip, Captain Mictes, was not preſent at the agree- 
ment, but on being informed of it by the ſupercargo, he 
wrote to one of che Committee as follows— When I 
was informed by Mr. F— that the paſſengers we are 
to take out were chriſtian miſſionaries, truly my heart 
rejoiced. It brought ſtrongly to my mind a defire which 
I had felt ſome years paſt, when this buſineſs was much 
talked of, that I might have the command of a ſhip that 
ſhould convey ſome of theſe meſſengers of peace to the 
heathen. And now it ſeems God is about to grant me 
my deſire. I anythe maſter of the Criterion, fir, and am 
not aſhamed to confeſs myſelf a lover of the goſpel, and of 
them that preach it, provided they preach not themſelves, 
but Chriſt Jeſus the Lord, of whatever denomination 
they may be. I have been ſeveral days preparing the ſhip 
for the reception of thoſe paſſengers but little thought who 
they were, Tell them I will have every thing as com- 
fortable as poſſible, and that they may be entirely ſeparate 
from every other perſon of the ſhip, if they chuſe it, ex- 


cept myſelf and two mates, who will be in the ſame apart- 
ment.” 


506 
„e. 

We could not but conſider it as a favourable provi- 
dence, and bleſs the Lord for it, that the captain was a 
friend of Chriſt. - We learned afterwards that he was an 
elder of the Preſbyterian church at Philadelphia, of which 
Dr. Smith is pau: 


The miffionaries had now but a little time to take 
leave of their friends, and to prepare for the voyage. Be- 
ing diſtantly ſituated they could not all meet together in 
the country, otherwiſe there would have been a general 
meeting for their ſolemn deſignation to the work. As 
things were, thoſe who were reſident in Briſtol held a 
meeting by themſelves; and thoſe who were on the other 
ſide of the kingdom agreed to meet at Olney on Tug 
May 7. for the above Pay 


_— = 


The following is the account of the meeting at Bri/ol, 
taken from a memorandum in the church-book of Broad- 
mead. | 


>» 


« May 3, 1799. Some of our brethren having 
offered themſelves to the Baptiſt miſſionary ſociety to be 
employed in publiſhing the goſpel among the heathen; and 
being accepted, and likely to ſet fail next week for the 

Eaſt Indies, notice was given on Tueſday laſt, after con- 
ference, that this evening would be ſpent in prayer on 
their account. We had a very pleaſant and folemn meet- 
ing; and after brother Daniel, brother Harris, our paſtor, 
and brother Sharpe, paſtor of the church at the Pithay, 
had prayed, the members of this church were requeſted to 
itop, and figned the following letter of diſmiſſion. 


50 


»» $$ 0 


70 THE CHURCH Or CHRIST | 


OF THE BAPTIST DENOMINA TION, 


Meeting at MUDNABATTY, or elſewhere, in the Province of AENGAL: 


Tue Church of Chrift 


N © THE s kr r ESEES 


Aﬀcmbling i in BROADMEAD, BRIST OL, cordially wiſhes Grace, + Mercy, 
and Peace to be multiplied. 


8 beloved ie | 


WE bleſs God on your account vale feſt put it into 
your hearts to pity the benighted natives of Bengal, and 
made you willing to quit your own country, and all your 
dear connexions, for the fake of carrying the glad tidings 
of ſalvation to the heathen. We rejoice that he has found 
you a ſtation in which to form a church for God, and 
that he has enabled you to continue ſteadfaſt in his work 
amidſt all your difficulties and diſcouragements. We can- 

5 not but believe that his Holy Spirit will at length be ſo 
poured out from on high, as to make the wilderneſs bloſ- 
ſom and bud like the roſe; and though you may ſtill ſow 

in tears, you ſhall at length reap in joy. 


« We truſt it is a token for good that God has at laſt 
put it into the hearts of ſome others to offer themſelves 
willingly to be your aſſiſtants in this bleſſed work; and if 
God ſhall indeed keep them faithful ( which we verily ac- 
count them to be) we ſhall think it an honour that from 
us ſo many of this ſmall number have gone forth, 


* Accordingly we commend unto you our brother and 
filter Marſhman, our brother Brunſdon and brother Grant, 
who are all members now in full communion with us and 
whoſe converſation has been as it becometh the goſpel 


508 

„%. | 

ever ſince they gave up their names to us, after being 
baptized by our paſtor upon a profeſſion of faith in our Lord 
Jeſus Chriſt. Our ſiſter Brunſdon did alſo reſide in this 
city, and had occaſional communion with us for ſome 
time, (being a member of the church at Fairford ) during 
which period her deportment was agreeable to her profeſ- 
ſion. Of our brother Marſhman's gifts ſome trial has al- 
ready been made, who has repeatedly ſpoken at conference 
to our edification; and though we have not made an ex- 
preſs trial of the gifts of the other brethren, brother Brunſ- 
don has been for ſome time at Olney, under the tuition of 
that valuable miniſter whom you know and eſteem, Mr. 
Sutcliff, where his gifts have been tried to ſatisfaction. 
And we are ſo well perſuaded that they have all of them 
undertaken this ſervice from ſincere love to Chriſt, and 
zeal for his glory, that we cordially approve of their en- 
gazement, and hope never to forget praying for a bleſſing 
on them and on you all, We ſolemnly wiſh them God 
ſpeed, and have ſet apart this evening to pray for their ſafe 
voyage, and happy meeting with you, and eſpecially for 
the ſucceſs of your united labours ; and now we affection- 
ately recommend and diſmiſs them to your communion, 
and truſt you will find that the Lord has called them to 
this work, and will own them therein. 


« We perhaps may never ſee them nor you any more 
in the fleſh, till the day of Chriſt, when we pray that 
each one may be attended with a goodly number of Hindoo 
converts, who ſhall be your joy and crown of rejoicing, 
and with whom we ſhall dwell for ever in the preſence of 


God and the Lamb. For this we are the more encouraged . 


to hope, by recollecting the caſe of one inhabitant of that 
bleſſed world, even Abraham, from which one man, and 
that at a period when he ſeemed as good as dead, there 
ſprang a nation, and HIM alſo in whom all nations 


mall be. bleſſed. Sce therefore beloved brethren how ea- 


13 
2; 
N 
. 
p 1 8 
, * Af 
' 
KV 
N } 
WK) 
4M 
k I 
4 71 
1 
. >! 
1 6 
i! 
1 
1 
} 1 
: " 
| nn. 
«84 
+ 
#333 
1 
: * 
$ * 
1 
* 4% 
7 "1 


309 

ſily your God can make a little one into a thouſand, and 
cauſe a ſmall one to become a ſtrong nation: ſo we truſt 
it ſhall in due time be with the church in Bengal. When 
we think of theſe things our heart is enlarged, and our 
mouth is opened unto you; but we reſtrain ourſelves at 
this time. May God even your own God bleſs you all, 
and make you all a bleſſing, even to hundreds and thou- 
ſands who now fit in darkneſs, and in the ſhadow of death. 
Brethren pray for us, as we would ever pray for you. We 
ate with ſincere affection 


© Your ak in Chriſt, 
cc 5 &c.“ 

At Olney the work of the day was ETRY with 
faſting and prayer, and the opportunity was very inter- 
eſting and affecting. Brother Hogg began by reading ſome 
ſuitable portions of Scripture, and then prayed. Brother 
Fuller propoſed ſome queſtions to the miſſionaries reſpect- 
ing the motives of their undertaking, and the religious 
ſentiments they meant to propagate ? The anſwer of bro- 
ther Ward was in ſubſtance the anſwer of both, ahd was 
to this effect I have received no new revelation on 
the ſubje&: I did not expect any. Our Redeemer hath 
ſaid, Go ye into all the world, and preach the goſpel to every 
creature: and Ih, I am with you always to the end of the 
world. This command J conſider as ſtill binding, ſince the 
promiſe of Chriſt's preſence reaches to the utmoſt corner 
of the earth, and to the utmoſt boundaries of time. 


cc While I was at Ewood Hall, I received an invita- 
tion to carry the goſpel and a printing preſs to Indiz, 
where brother Carey and others have erected the ftandard 
of the croſs, I prayed to God, and adviſed with my friends. 
In complying with this invitation I gave up all other proſ- 
pets, and devoted myſelf to that of attempting to bleſs a 
nation of heathens. Since that time my peace and joy in 


$10 


God have more and more abounded. Duty and pleaſure 


have in my employment gone hand in hand. Sometimes 
I have been enabled to ſay, 


« No 3 joy can be compared to this, 
«& To A and pleaſe the Lord.“ 


In his ſtrength therefore I would go forth, borne up 
by your prayers, hoping that two or three ſtones at leaſt 
may be laid of the foundation of Chriſt's kingdom in In- 
dia, nothing doubting but that the fair fabric will riſe 
from age to age, till time ſhall be no more. 


„The being and attributes of God, the total "As 
vity of man, free and full ſalvation by the grace of God 
through a mediator, the deity of Chriſt, the work of the 
Holy Spirit in regeneration, and the final falvation of 
believers, are doctrines which I believe, and conſider as 
incluſive of all others. It is to the doctrine of the croſs 
that I look for ſucceſs in the converſion of the heathen.” 


After the miſſionaries had each given their anſwer, they 
were ſolemnly ſet apart to the work by prayer and im- 
poſition of hands, in the former of which brother Fuller 
engaged, and in the latter moſt of the brethren in the mi- 
niſtry who were preſent. 


After this, brother Sutcliff delivered an exhortation 
to the miſſionaries, founded on Epheſ. iii. 8. Unto me, 
who am leſs then the leaſt of all ſaints, is this grace given, 
that T ſhould preach among the gentiles, the unſearchable riches 
of Cbriſt. After glancing at the ſimilarity between their 
circumſtances and thoſe of the apoſtle, he recommended 
three things to their attention, —The work itſelf, © to 
preach among the gentiles the unſearchable riches of 


Chriſt,” —The light in which the apoſtle viewed it, as 


511 

tt grace given,” or favour granted io him and, the frame 
of mind in which he diſcharged it, to me who am leſs 
than the leaſt of all ſaints is this grace — Tk 


Under the firſt, he enlarged on the ſubject matter of 
the goſpel meſſage; the riches, the unſearchable riches of 

Chriſt; the, treaſures of divine mercy depoſited in the 

hands of the Redeemer, to be diſpenſed to poor ſinners 
in a word, on the plenitude, variety, value, and incom- 
| mans of the * of the e 


Under the ſecond, he ſuggeſted to chi, that 88 
their work might expoſe them to reproaches and hardſhips 
it was in itſelf an honour, a favour confetred on them; it 
was carrying into execution the gracious purpoſes of God, 
fulfilling ſcripture prophecy, acting in fellowſhip with 
Chriſt, and the beſt of men in every age; in fine, it was 
a work that afforded ſcope for the nobleſt principles of be- 
nevolence, the proper diſcharge of which would appear 
glorious at the laſt day. 


Under the third, he enforced a ſpirit of deep humility, 
as neceſſary to their ſucceſs; obſerving that this was a 
kind of ſoil on which every other grace or holy diſpoſition 
of the heart will grow. With this they would be much 
in prayer, would deny themſelves, would wait patiently 
under the want of ſucceſs, and aſcribe all to God in the 
* of it. 

9 

He concluded by holding up for their encouragement, 
the prophecies of ſcripture, the promiſes of Chtiſt, the 
prayers of their brethren, and the proſpects of a glorious 
reward. — Brother Sutcliff's exhortation being finiſhed, 
the following inſtructions, drawn up by brother Ryland, 
were then publicly read. 


512 
„ee 


AN ADDRESS 
From the Committee of the Bay T1sT Miss TO ARY SOCIETY 


TO THE MISSIONARIES. 
Dear Brethren, i 


600 has at length, after trying our faith and pa- 
tience, and that of our dear friends in India, by a long 
delay, given us the proſpect of ſending them ſome fellow- 
labourers for that important work, wherein they have 
been for ſome time engaged, and wherein he hath honour- 
ed us by making uſe of our aſſiſtance. Not only indeed is 
it his work, wherein, at moſt, we could be but inſtruments : 
but he has been pleaſed in the courſe of his providence, by 
ſome remarkable inſtances, wherein we failed, through 
our want of more perfect knowledge of affairs to which 
we had been ſo wholly unaccuſtomed, to manifeſt that he 
was attentive to our dear brethren, and took care of them, 
when our aid would otherwiſe have been inſufficient. 
This may the more encourage your reliance on his provi- 
dence, though we. truſt we never ſhall intermit our care 
for them, and for you: and the apparent riſque you now 
run is much leſs than theirs who firſt went out, both as 
you have the proſpect of meeting with tried friends on 
your arrival, and as we now are more fully acquainted 
with the beſt method of ſending remittances to you. We 
truſt you are well perſuaded of our earneſt ſolicitude for 
your welfare in every reſpect; and while you reckon upon 
many difficulties and trials, under which He alone can be 
your aid, who is a God afar off, as well as at hand, there 
will be nothing in our power, wherein we ſhall not be 
glad to eaſe your burdens and firengthen your hands. Let 
us therefore hear from you as often as opportunity may 

we 3 v 


3 
. 
permit; but eſpecially fail not to ſend to us twice à year, 
and in any caſe wherein we can afford you aid, or counſel, 
frecly impart to us the knowledge of your circumſtances. 
Yet, as we have but little of our own, and depend on the 
co-operation of many friends, who have not all of them 
the like knowledge of you, and cannot therefore ſo directly 
confide in you as ourſelves ; let us always have an account 
of any extra expenſes for which you may have occaſion to 
apply to us. And as our Finances are limitted,. and you 
as well as ourſelves, with for more miſſions- to be under- 
taken, as ſoon as proper men ſhall be found to engage in 
them; we doubt not but you will gladly uſe every effort 
in your power to leſſen the expenſes of the preſent miſon. 


While our being willing to fend you out, is a ſuffici- 
ent indication of our hope that God has given you a good 
meaſure of his grace, and that you are zealous for the ho- 
nour of his name; ſuffer us, nevertheleſs, to remind you, 
that, like ourſelves, you need continually a freſh unction 
rom his Spirit, and muſt be conſtantly imploring wiſdom 
from the Father of lights, and receiving out of the fulneſs 
of Jeſus Chriſt, grace after grace. Look unto him, dear 
brethren, continually. He is the author and fiſher of 
faith. He alſo is your only perfe& pattern. Imitate 
his example, as the greate/? miſſionary that ever appeared in 
our world. Be it your ſtudy to reſemble him as much as 
poſſible ; only remembering that it is in the form of a ſer- 
vant merely, that you can act like him, and not wherein 
he acted as Mafter and Lord. Remember alſo that where- 
as he was encompaſled with ſinleſs infirmities only, and 
had conſtantly to conflict with ſin without him; you, 
alas! have fin dwelling, ꝛwithin you, and muſt always be- 
gin pour combat in your own breaſts. Your work is great 
and arduous, and as nothing can be more provoking to the 


warping. god of this world, than to carry the holy war 


a” 

| wooo” + 
into his own territories; ſo you may be aſſured of his ut- 
molt oppoſition. Nothing would gratify him ſo much as 
the miſconduct of a miſſionary. Be therefore, beloved 
brethren, concerned in the firſt place to keep your own 
hearts with all diligence, and ever live near to God. The 
devil would laugh a miſſionary te ſcorn, who is not con- 
#ant in application to the throne of grace, and who does 
not carefully attend to perſonal religion, It is only from 
the Spirit of God that you can derive the leaſt hope of 
ſucceſs in your work. Beware therefore, that you grieve 
not Him, by whom you are ſealed to the day of Redemp- 
tion. Implore him to work daily iz you: then may you 
kope that he will alſo work by you. You have not ſo 
learned Chriſt, as to conceit that his work ſuperſedes du- 
ty; but we truſt you have been taught deeply the neceſſity 
of continual dependance on him, and earneſt application 
for his aid, in every good word and work. We have not 
the leaſt hope of your ſucceſs unleſs you are kept little in 
your own eyes; ſenſible of your own weakneſs; jealous of 
your own hearts. If once you indulge a conceit that you 
can do much, we ſhall be perſuaded you will do worle 
than nothing. May you feel your own inſufficiency, and 
may the ftrength of Chriſt be made perfect in your weak- 
neſs! You have, ſeveral. of you, known one another al- 
ready; are all engaged in ene cauſe; and we truſt have all 
drank into one ſpirit : but you are all imperfe&. It is not 
therefore needleſs to exhort you to let bratherly love con- 
tinue. Strengthen one another's hands. Let nothing be 
done through ſtrife or vain glory: let each eſteem other 
as better than himſelf. Try only to excel one another in 
unfeigned humility. Let each be ambitious of being ſer- 
want of all, There was once a conteſt among the apoſtles, 
who ſhould be greateft, Once there was ſharp contention 
hetween Paul and Barnabas; but we need not tell you, 
Why tbeſe things were recorded. 


3 


| „e. 

Let the women who are honoured by our beloved 
Lord, on this occafion, conſider how great the good is 
which they may do. If they conſtantly ſtrengthen the 
hands of their huſbands in all their miffionary labours ; 
if they never excite. the leaſt ſpark of envy, or evil 
ſurmiſes, in their yoke-fellows toward their fellow-la- 
bourers; if they can gain acceſs to the Hindoos of 
their own sex, and with ſimplicity and affection relate to 
them the bleſſed effects of the goſpel on their own hearts; 

if God ſhould, by their means, ſpread the knowledge of 
his ſalvation among thoſe whom the ſuperſtition of the 
country has precluded from the public means of grace: 
what reaſon will they have to rejoice that they were thus 
employed! 


We need not ſay much on the head of your conduct 
toward our dear brethren that have gone before you. We 
are perſuaded you will thankfully attend to their counſel, 
and be aware that it will be a conſiderable time before you 
can judge of the propriety of managing the miſſionary 
work, equally with thoſe who have already gained an ac- 
quaintance with the inhabitants and cuſtoms of the country. 
'T he tried ſteadineſs, prudence and zeal, with which God 
has bleſſed our brother Carey in particular, will incline 
you to conſult him, in almoſt every ſtep : and we are well 
aſſured you will find him far from that temper, which 
would make it burdenſome to fellow his advice. 


One circumſtance is of ſo much conſequence that we 
muſt not omit it in this parting addreſs; though you have 
been again and again reminded of it, individually ; and we 
have no reaſon to ſuſpect you are otherwiſe minded than 
ourſelves. Beware however, both from a principle of 
conſcience, and from ſound policy, and regard to your 
own intereſt and that of the miſſion, to keep at the utmoſt 


een 

diſtance from intermeddling with any political concerns. 
Keep not only your tongues and your pens from that ſub- 
ject; but keep your minds, as much as poſſib le from being 
at all occupied therein. Study to be quiet, and mind your 
own buſineſs. If in a courſe of years, any commotions 
were to ariſe in the country, we do not want to hear from 
you one word of news to gratify our curioſity, which could 
give the ſlighteſt umbrage to the government, if your let- 
ters were printed. We hope you will find the concerns 
of the country much better managed than many in England 
have ſuppoſed. But if it were otherwiſe, you do not go 
to enquire into civil matters, or to attempt the rectifying 
of political grievances, but to promote a kingdom not of this 
world. Set a pattern yourſelves of ready obedience to human 
authority, in all things that are lawful in the ſight of Godz 
and inculcate this as a duty on all who liſten to your in- 
ſtructions. There cannot be greater evils in civil govern- 
ment, at the preſent day, than there were in the days of 
the apoſtles ; but you know how they acted, and what they 
taught in this reſpe&t; and we pray that you may never 
deviate from their plan. We certainly would ſooner hear 
of any one of you ſinking in the ocean, than of his becom- 
ing a buſy body in political affairs, to bring diſhonour on 
religion, and lay the ſtrongeſt impediments in the way of 
the important work we have at heart, 5 


And now, our beloved brethren and ſiſters, be ſtrong 
in the Lord, and in the power of his might. The hoſts 
of hell are againſt you; but the battle is not yours, but 
God's. He it is that goes before you, and will be with 
you. He is all- ſufficient to protect you, and all- ſufficient 
to ſucceed you. The weapons of your warfare are not 
carnal, but ſpiritual; and ſhall prove mighty through God, 
to the pulling down of the ſtrong-holds of ſatan, who has 
been fortifying himſelf in the country to which you are 
going, for ages. But the doQrine of the crols thall at 


% 


319 
.- 

length triumph over all oppoſition. The deeply rooted 

ſuperſtitions, by which the progreſs of the goſpel is im- 
peded, ſhall prove an ineffectual barrier to the advance- 
ment of his kingdom, to whom univerſal empire is abſo- 
lutely decreed. You may till have to wait for the arm 
of the Lord to be revealed; but the ſet time to favour Zion 
haſtens on; and we truſt that before you die, you ſhall ſee 
the ſalvation of God. Pray and labour, and count not 
life dear, ſo that you may finiſh. your courſe with joy, 
Jeſus muſt reign; and if you are faithful unto death, you 
thall live and reign with him. We truſt we ſhall never 
ceale praying for you, that the hand of the Lord may be 
with you, that multitudes of the heathen may be brought 
to believe your teſtimony, and turn unto the Lord, whom 
we hope to hail when you ſhall meet us with them in the 
day of the Lord, Perhaps we ſhall fee you no more till 
that day. But it is a glorious meeting we then expect with 
you, and your Hindoo converts. God grant it! Amen. 


— 22 


IT was a damp to all the enjoyment of the day that our 
dear brother Pearce was prevented being with us, and that 
by an affliction which rendered it doubtful whether we 
ſhould ſee his face any more. His heart however was 
with us; and notwithſtanding his indiſpoſition, he could 
not deny himſelf the pleaſure of offering to the committee 
2 few inſtructions for the miſſionaries, and bid the miſſion- 
aries a moſt tender and affectionate farewell. Theſe in- 
ſtructions the committee alſo adopted as its own. The 
letter was read from the pulpit towards the cloſe of the 
apportunity, and with ſuch effect as to diſſolve the audi- 
tory in teats. The letter, which was addreſſed to 
brother Fuller, was as follows :— - | 


8 Tamerton, May 2, 1799. 
I AM fo weak that cloſe thinking, and writing, 
_ excite or encreaſe my feveriſh ſenſations: yet I would 


318 
eee. 
gladly offer a few hints to the Society, and to the Miffi- 
onaries. Only three things have particularly ſtruck me. 
You and others will probably think of more. 


Firſt, As this Society is dependant for its ſupport on 
the pious public, whoſe leaſt compenfation ſhould be an 
acquaintance with the ſucceſs of thoſe for whom their be- 
nevolence is exerted, it is highly proper that each miſſion- 
ary under the patronage of this ſociety ſhould communi- 
cate direct and perſonal information concerning his own 
efforts, and their various fruits, at leaſt twice in every 
year: to which end the ſociety do requeſt that each of 
their miſſionaries would keep a regular journal of his pro. 
ceedings and ſend it, or a copy of it, to the ſecretary by 
. Spring and Fall ſhips. 


| Secondly, Since that kingdom which we, as the diſciy 
ples of Jeſus wiſh to eſtabliſh, is not of this world, we 
affectionately and ſeriouſly enjoin on each miſſionary under 
our patronage, that he do cautiouſly and conſtantly abſtain 
from every interference with the political concerns of the 
country where he may be called to labour, whether by 
words, or deeds; that he be obedient to the laws in all 
civil affairs; that he reſpe& magiſtrates, ſupreme and ſub- 
ordinate z and teach the ſame things to others: in fine, 
that he apply himſelf wholly to the all-important concerns 
of that evangelical ſervice to which he has ſo ſolemnly de- 
dicated himſelf, 


Thirdly, However groſs may be the idolatries, and 
heatheniſh ſuperſtitions that may fall beneath a miſſiona- 
ry's notice, the ſociety are nevertheleſs perſuaded that both 
the mutual reſpect due from man to man, together with 
the intereſts of the true. religion, demand, that every 
miſſionary ſhould ſedulouſly avoid all rudeneſs, inſult, or 
interruption during the obſervance of the ſaid ſuperſtitions; 
recommending no methods but thoſe adopted by Chriſt 


519 
and his apoſtles, namely, the perſevering uſe of ſcripture, 
reaſon, prayer, ann and love. 


O that the Leal, who is ee by place o or con- 
dition, may copiouſly pour out upon you all the rich effu- 
ſions of his Holy Spirit on the approaching day! My 
moſt hearty love to each miſſionary, and each companion, 
or intended companion of a miſſionary, who may then 
encircle the throne of grace. Happy men! Happy wo- 
men! You are going to be fellow labourers with Chriſt 
himſelf! I congratulate I almoſt envy you; yet I love 
you, and can ſcarcely now forbear dropping a tear of 
love as each of your names paſles acroſs my mind. O 
what promiſes are yours', and what a reward! Surely 
heaven is filled with double j joy, and reſounds with unu- 
ſual acclamations at che arrival of each miſſionary there. 
O be faithful, my dear brethren, my dear ſiſters, be 
faithful unto death, and all this joy is yours! Long as I 
live, my imagination will be hovering over you in Ben- 
gal; and ſhould I die, if ſeparate ſpirits are allowed a viſit 
to the world they have left, methinks mine would be ſoon 
at Mudnabatty, watching your labours, your conflicts, 
and your pleaſures, whilſt you are always abounding in 
the work of the Lord. | 


My dear brother Fuller, pardon me—My feelings 
have hurried me whither I did not intend. Do not be 
long without letting me know the progreſs of affairs. 
Thanks for your laſt information. What good news: 
what encouragement ! Pray preſent my moſt ſincere affec- 
tion to dear brother Ward in particular, and tell him that 
I would fain write him a long and loving letter; but I 
know if he were apprized of the injury it does me at this 
time, he himſelf would rather that I omitted it. 


Ever your's 


I 


320 
„. 5 
Aſter the ppörtünty Was over, che miſfionaries ac - 
companied by Mr. Fuller, ſet off for London. Thera 
they met with their brethren from Briſtol, and preſently 


felt themſelves to be of one heart, and of one ſoul. It 
was expected that the ſhip would fail in a few days, but 


it being detained in harbour beyond the time, opportunity 
was offorded for a public meeting in London; and which 
was held at Mr. Booth's alace: of worſhip, on F riday 
May 10. Brethren Tho. Thomas, Tim. Thomas, and 
Button, engaged in prayer, and Mr. Booth addreſſed the 
miſſionaries at their own requeſt, and in a very ſerious and 
ſuitable manner, on the"interefling, honourable, and arduous 
nature of their undertaking. The London brethren were 
much intereſted in the work, and carried it very affection- 
ately to the miſſionaries, | 

The ſhip. being detained. two or three weeks beyond 
the expected time of her failing, Mrs. Grant, the only 
adult perſon in the company who was not a member of a 
church, was baptized during the interval. 


On Saturday, May 25, having little reaſon to ſuppoſe 
that they would fail before Monday, brethren Sutcliff and 
Fuller, with a view to keep the Lord's day in the city, 
took leave of the miffionaries, in expectation of ſeeing 
them again. In the afternoon of that day, a favourable 
wind ardle, and they immediately ſet fail. On the Lord's 
day evening, knowing that they would be detained ſome 
time at Graveſend, brethren. Sutcliff, Fuller, and Button, 
ſec off for that place to take leave of them, and reached it 
ſoon after midnight. On taking a boat, they came up with 
them about two in the morning, and went on board; but 
the ſhip being under ſail, they could only give to each 
brother and ſiſter their affectionate farewell, and commit 
them to Him in whoſe cauſe they were embazked ! 


3 4 


* 
* 
bY 
57 
: 4 
$1 
$1 
70 
18 
4 
0 
* 
ä 
* 
4 
— 
* 
4 


32 
„ese 


Retiring from the ſhip, tl. ey returned to Graveſend, 
viewing her for ſeveral miles, till at length ſhe diſappeared. 
It was on this affecting occaſion, and woe the ſhip was 
gradually receding from the, ſight, that the following 
lines Were compoſed by one of the company. 5 


1 Farewell, beloved friends, once more EST 

* For you our hearts have felt, and till ſhall feel: 
Of late we've car'd, and ſome attention given, 
Now we muſt leave you to the care of heaven. 


2 If we ſhould ever wickedly omit 
Jo aid, or offer up our ſtrong deſire, 
Let our right hands their wonted ſkill forget, 
And all our hopes and | Joys in death expire 


75 . Go then, dear friends, in your Redeemer's cauſe, 
Go plow the briny wave, and brave the deep ; 
Mercy and truth be with you as you paſs, 
Preſerve your fouls, your lives in ſafety keep. 


4 Go join thoſe much-lov'd names on yonder ſhores, 
Go ſhare their ardent honourable toil, 
Mingle your ſouls with theirs, with theirs your joys, 
And bear to them the bleſſings of your native iſle. 


5 Go teach the nations, ſound the Saviour's name, 
As he was ſent of God he doth you ſend; 
His word of promiſe ſtill remains the ſame, 
Lo I am with you always to the end!” 


A few days after, brother WaRD ſent a letter from 
Margate, containing the following lines, which he ſuppoſed 
might be ſung at our MonTHLY Prayer-meetings, during 
the voyage. : 


3 © Smile Lord on each divine attempt 
To ſpread the goſpel's rays, 
And build on fins demoliſh'd throne 
The temple of thy grace.” 


2 Oh, charge the waves to bear our ftiends 
In ſafety o'er the deep, 
Let the rough tempeſt ſpeed their way, 
Or bid its fury ſleep. 


| 3 When they ſhall preach the Saviour's Wen 
Beneath the Banian's ſhade, 1 
Let the poor Hindoo feel its pow'r, 
And make his ſpirit glad. 


4 N let the heavenly Shaſter e 
Bid the new caſt ariſe, - _ 

Till Brammhans preach the goſpel word, 

And India tafte its joys. 


—— FILLS LARS 
ABovuT three weeks after their departure, we received 
letters by the Liſbon packet, dated June 14, oft Cape 


Finifterre, in which they ſpeak of being all well and happy: 
but relate their having met with much boiſterous weather 


in the channel, and being chaſed by a French Privateer, 


from which they eſcaped by the darknefs of the night. 
When failing by Plymouth, they felt very ſtrong ſenſa- 
tions on the Suben of dear brother Pearce. © O that I 


could adopt one of his children, ( fays brother Ward) and 
provide for it as * ou} 


T hey intimate that. the Captain joined with them in 
morning and evening prayer, and in his turn engaged: 
alſo that on the Lord's day they had public worſhip on 
deck, where one of the brethren preached to the ſhip's 
company, after the Captain had firſt addreſſed them on 
the ſubject, and recommended the acknowledging and wor- 
{ſhipping of God in their voyage. 


nine 009g wine, 2 
cee ee 


RESOLUTIONS OF THE SOCIETY. 


LkicksrEx Meeting, Aug. 7, 1799. 


Neſolved, That Mr. Hinton of Oxford be added to the 


Committee, and requeſted to take a part in collecting for 
the Society. 


| 
a! 
* 
* 
3” 
. 


38% 
Krrrinive Meeting, oa. „ 1799. 


Reſolved, 1. That = deute of os Moravian Bre- 
thren are deſerving of attention; and though on account 
of our own important concerns at this time, we cannot 
aſſiſt them to the extent of our Wiſhes, yet that C. 20 be 
preſented to their ae as a token of brotherly love. 


W I. a * 


3460 


if poſſible, concluded at __ next F meeting at North- 
ampton (Nov, I3, A 799- ) whether the Society Wen not 


„ 


92930 


out on the ies. buſineſs. 


* 


NoRTHAMPTON Meeting, Nov. 13, 1799. 


Refolved, That if the Congregation at Kettering can 
procure a young miniſter who may aſſiſt as ſtated above, 
the Weiser, will allow him pf 50 for one year. 


. 


* 


Some Account of JO0DISHTHEER. 


Mr, Carey having ſuggeſted in a former letter, that 
in reading the famous Hindoo poem, called, the Mahabha- 
rat, written in Shanfcrit, he had met with a paſſage which 

rendered it propable that the 7eodifhtheer of the Hindoo's 
was cotemporary with Saul, king of Iſrael ; he was re- 
queſted to be more particular in his reſearches on that 
ſubject, as it might furniſh the grand deſideratum enabling 
us to fix upon a rule by which to judge of the real antiquity 
of the Hindoo Chronology. In anſwer to this requeſt, he 
Writes as follows, | 


FY 


The circumſtance of Joodiſhtheer being cotemporary 


with Saul, king of Ifrael, will perhaps be har to prove 


beyond a doubt. At preſent J have not the ſecond book of 
the Mahabharat by me, though I well remember the paſ- 
ſage, and will give my reaſons for thinking it to refer to 
Saul, or, as is more probable, to Solomon, the laſt ſyllable 
in his name being omitted,” The ſtory is this: It was 
recommended to Joodiſhtheer, by Natad the ſage, to per- 
form a particular ſacrifice, called Raj Sooi, to which 
kings were to be invited. Joodiſhtheer having engaged i in 
it, the Debs, the king of ſerpents, and all the kings of 
the earth aſſembled, except a few hoſtile ones who were 
obliged to contribute towards the expences of it. Among 
the reſt, it is ſaid that © Great Saul the king of the Jabons 
was there.“ Ne ow Jabon i is a term given to the Muſſul- 
mans at this day, on account of their practiſing the rite 
of circumciſion, which all the Pundits ſay is the diſtin- 
guiſhing rite of the Jabons. But Jabons are mentioned 
by Menu, one of the oldeſt writers of the Hindoos, and 
who is ſuppoſed to have written many centuries before the 
coming of Chriſt; ſo that we muſt look for ſome people 
anterior to Mahomedans who practiſed circumciſion in 
thoſe early ages; and no people offer themſelves fo readily 
as the Jews, among whom it was the diſtinguiſhing rite. 
It is therefore very probable | that the perſon mentioned 
was Saul, or Solomon, whoſe fame may reaſonably be 
ſuppoſed to have reached to India. I know that little can 
be built on a ſimilarity of names; but the term Jabon, or 
more properly Yabon, is from the dhat, or radix Yoo, 
which ſignifies to mix. The derivation j is not very diffi- 
cult from the Hebrew word. All Hindoo accounts are 
indeed wrapped up in fable; yet admitting that fables 
generally have their foundation in truth, there is, I 
think, pretty ſtrong evidence for this being the king of 
the Jews. 


325 
ee 


* A 
* Tf [i 0 3 


9 8 me! that the Hindoo a are every fond of 
ing hymns,* Mr. Carey, without making any pretenſions 
to poetic talents, has furniſned them with ſome plain 
. e we which the following i is a 2 5 


* 
n 0 * * 4 r 7 


EA . . — e 
0 cf HYMN by Mer. CAREY: 


Indian renauncing Heatheniſm, and embracing ohn, 


K e in Bengallee by W. Carry, and tranſlated | 


- Into ain by J.- roen rain.] 


374 3 8 * N K 1 


V Oe 23 f 1 
1 In ſerving vain idols, why thus ſpend my days, 
Since nought but deſtruction attend. all my ways? 
The Lord of the world did deſcend from on high, 
And was born in our nature all ſin to deſtroy. 


2 Hitherto my whole ſoul, full of darkneſs has been, 
And like other people I've gone on in ſin, 
With them I was drowning in miſery's deep, 

ö And on earth I diſcover'd no way of __- 


3 Seeb, Doorga, and Kallee, could give me no aid, 
No Debta nor Debbee, no off "rings were made, 
No Brammhan, no Yogee, no deed done by me, 
1 not all theſe united can fet my ſoul free. 


4 Theſe all are b quits uſcleſs, I've found them all vain, . 
From the pow'r of Ixs us, ſome hope I obtain : 
Theſe heavens and this earth are the work of his hands; 
He animates all things; all en. : 


5 My ſin, and my holineſs, now are my ſhame ! 
My paſſions, my wiſhes, my honour, my name: 
I now lay all down at CAAI8 T Ixsus' feet, 
And truſt, though a ſinner, I mercy ſhall get. 


6 Ho! All ſinful people, this good news attend, 
Salvation and Righteouſneſs, now apprehend ; 
This, this is the order he gives unto you, | 
And then after death you to glory ſhall go. 


* See page 406, 


„eee 


HYMN by Mr. FOUNTAIN: 
1 SiNNERs now we call upon you, In the name of Chriſt our Lord; 


We have brought a meſſage from him; Pay attention to his word. 
He hath'ſent us, &c. &c. Pay attention to his word. 


2 Think what you have all been doing; Think what rebels you have been: 
| You have ſpent your lives in nothing, But in adding fin to fin: 
All your actions, &c. &c. One continued ſcene of fin. 


3 Yet your long-abuſed Sov'reign Sends to you a meſſage mild; 
Loth to execute his vengeance, Prays you to be reconcil'd. 
Hear him woo you, &c. &c. Sinners now be reconcil'd. 


4 Pardon now is freely publiſhed, Thro' a Mediator's blood, 
Who hath died to make atonement, And appeaſe the wrath of God. 
Wondrous mercy ! &c. &. See! it flows thro? Jeſu's blood; 


5 In his name we now intreat you To accept this act of Grace, 
This the day of your acceptance, Liſten to the terms of peace: 3 
We beſeech you, &c. Liften to the terms of peace, 


6 ; Having thus proclaim'd our meſſage, All with heav'nly mercy fraught 
We ſhall now inform our Maſter, Whether you accede or not. 
Give an anſwer, &c. Will you now accede or not? 


POSTSCRIPT, - 


Leven have juſt been received from out Brethren in 
India of ſo late a date as Oct. 27. 1799. They contain the 
agreeable intelligence of the four new miſſionaries, and 
their families, ſent out laſt May, having ſafely arrived on 
OR. 12, We are alſo informed that Mr. Carey has re- 
moved from Mudnabatty, owing to the Factory at that 
place having been declined ; and that he had taken a ſmal} 
one at Kidderpore, about 12 miles diſtant, where he in- 
tended to carry on a little buſineſs for himſelf, and to 
erect ſome dwellings for the other miſſionaries who were 
juſt arrived. Mr. Fountain's health was but indifferent, 
and Mr. Carey's ſecond fon, William, was dangerouſly 
ill of a feyer when the letter came away. 

A 


327 


een 

The Committee would be happy to communicate ſome 
accounts of a work of God amongſt the natives; but at 
preſent they are called, with the reſt of the friends of the 
undertaking, to exerciſe faith and patience. Inſtead of 
acceſſions, ſeveral who formerly afforded hopes have fallen 
off, and were it not that the Lord ſeems to he giving the 
Miſſionaries favour in the eyes of their own countrymen, 
and blefling their labours in ſome degree amongſt them, 
their hearts would fail and be diſcouraged. By the friend- 
ly aid of European gentlemen, the ſchool has been chiefly 
ſupported, and another opened at Dinagepore. 


Various difficukies have prevented their beginning to 
print the Tranſlation; but for this the Committee are 
thankful, as the arrival of Mr. ard will enable them to 


execute it with much greater accuracy than they could 
have done without his afiſtance. 


The Committee earneſtly recommend it to the friends 
of the undertaking to be much in prayer for the divine 
bleſſing. The Lord may intend to make us feel, as well 
as acknowledge, that zeal is not the only thing neceſſary 
to promote the converſion of the heathen.” It is ſometimes 
ſeen that previous to a remarkable appearance in favour of 

Zion, he permits our hopes to ſink to the loweſt degree: 
by theſe means the power and ſovereignty ef his grace 
became the more conſpicious and impreſſive. 


April 18. 1800. 


EVD OF TIE FIRST FOLUME. 


INDEX 


PERIODICAL ACCOUNTS, Vo“. I. 


A 

Address of the Society to their 

tellow christians, 8. To the 
Churches of the Northampton- 

shire Association, 45. To the 
Missionaries, 512. To the 
Hindoos on the character of 
their gods, 356. 

Agriculture, state of, in Bengal, 
330, 464, 467. 

Answers to various questions. 

See Questions. 
4 of the last Missionaries, 
IL 
Arts of the Hindoos, 38 1. 
B. * 

Baptism of Mr, Powell, 279. Of 
the christian natives, opposi- 
tion to it, 369. 

Bengal, its populousness, 296. 


Few accommodations for tra- 


vellers, 372. Account of its 
soil, 140, birds, beasts, 141, 
335, fruits, and other natu- 
ral productions, 398—401, 
452. Weather hot in the day, 
Þut cold at night, 340, Pro- 
visions cheap, 29, 30, but ser- 
vants expensive, 407. Awful- 
ness of its moral state, 459, 
490. See Hindoos. 

Bengullee language, Mr. Carey's 
account of it, 92, 171, 204, 
216. Words variously spelt 
by different writers, 410 ,447. 

Bequest, form of one in favour 
of the Mission, 150. 

Bible, and the Koran compared, 
121, 122, 162, 163. The de- 
sirableness of à translation of 
it, 292. 


Birminglam, friends ut, their 


decided and liberal c 
tion, 3, 6. Their N fol- 
lowed in many other places, 
4,44: 

Birmmba, one of the three great 
personal virtues, or powers, 
which the Hindoos consider 
as the Creator of all, 213, 214, 


Bore or Boar, the flood tide i in 


the Ganges, 222. 
om R. R. the moonshi, Mr. 
Thomas' first account of him, 
19. His hymn, 82. His fall 
into idelatry, 65, 78. Favour- 
able thoughts of him notwith- 
standing, 75, 160, 182. His 
Grst ideas of God, and angels, 
166. His want of zeal, 176, 
Letter to Mr. Morris, 214. 
IIis hymn sung by the na- 
tives, 216, 234. Is guilty of 
adultery, and discharged by 
Mr. Carey, 303, 342. This de- 
fection a heavy. loss, 325. 
Bootan, a mission chither recom- 
mended, 219. Ay excursion 
into that country by Messrs, 
Carey and Thomas, 362. Its 
high mountains, 470. Man- 
ners, dress, and appearance 
of the Booteas, 303—368. 
Several sermons preached to 
them by means of an inter- 
preter, 362. 
Booth's Address to the Missio: 
naries, 520. 
Brainerd, Mr. David, a model 
for missionaries, 293. 
Brammhans, many of them very 
ignorant, 130. The learned 
among them intolerable pe- 
dants, 213. Conversations with 


l ANDEX. 


them, 165, 178, 179, 191, 


9 282— 284, 330, 356. : 
A blind one anda some seri- 


ous concern, 307. The ob- 
Jections of one against the 


©, gospel, 376. Superstitidus 


veneration' of them, 484. 


Duri, attended with diffcul- 
ties owing to the superstitions N 


422 


of the cast, 127, 143, 290. 


Burning of women, 56. Laws 


respecting it, 473. 
Calcutta, a populous, but wick- 
end city, 25, 68. Letter foun- 


dery lately established there, * 
397. 


Carey Mr. The exercises of his 
mind, and the publication of 
his Iuguir on Missions to the 
© heathen, the first occasion of 
the Society being formed, 1. 
Accepted as a missionary to 
Bengal in conjunction with 
Mr. Thomas, 35. Extracts 
from his Journal, 157, 468. 
IIis grief ſor the irreligion of 
the ship's company , and de- 
sire for the conversion of his 
children, 159. Spiritual im- 
© provement of the difficulties 
pf the voyage, 160. Perceivey 
some hopeful 1 impressions on 
© * bis two eldest sons, 176. Sett- 
Ung at Hashnabad, but is in- 
- "ited to Malda, 169. Finds 
great plensure in the writings 
of Pres, Edwards, 165, 171. 
3 by the natives, 
2. Other great discourage- 
Menn in his work, yet his 
heart is fixed on God, 175. 


1 


© His affectionate re membrance 


of his dear friends in Europe, 
166, 177, 180, 187, 193. 
| Journey to Malda, 177. So- 
heited by the natives to offer 
to their idols, 184. Declines 


using 8 in his own facto- | 


ry, in suppressing idolatry, 


lest he should ineur the guilt 
of persecution, 189. Loses 


his third son, Peter, by death, 
119, Difficulties in burying 


him, owing to the cust, 127, 


143. Himself attacked by an 
intermitting fever, 122, but 


upon the hole enjoys his 


health better than in Eng- 


land, 354. His manner of 
ling, 407. Encouragements 


in times of difficulty, 128, 
161, 164, 166, 172, 176. 
Greatly esteemed by the na- 
tives, and by all who know 
him, 212. His advice to mis- 
sionaries, 217, 218. His heart 


greatly set upon translating 


the bible, 328, 345. Aims 
not at elegance but plainness 
in his w ork, 223. Wishes for 


A printing-press, and a serious 


printer, 320, 348. Under- 
Stands somewhat of the Hin- 
fostance : and Shanscrit, 348; 
Preaches 1 in a circuit to about 
two hundred villages, 327. 
His mode of travelling, L33. 
His anxious concern lest o- 
thers should be discouraged by 
his little success, 340. Is 
sometimes much dejected 
himself; yet satisfied that he 
is where God would have him 


be; feels in his clement, 328, 


491, and determined to dig 
in his work, 300, 303, 351, 
481, 489. Discouraged by 
the fall of R. Boshoo, but 
again revived, 325. His af- 
fectionate advice to his suc- 
cessor at Leicester on the du- 
ties of a pastor; and address 
to the church on the advan- 
tages and duties of christian 


little church in Bengal, 354. 
Illis ideas of submission to 


interested opinion on Mr. 
Pearce's going as a. missiona- 


distinct topic to different cor- 
respondents, 377, 380. His 
great and numerous labours, 
403, 468. Composes hymns 


ſor the natives, 406. His jour- 


nal of three days, 468. Ser- 
mon from Ephes. vi. 12, 13. 


Ilis 2 of the Asiatic Re- 


Searches, and Maurice's His- 
fory, 470. 
Cassinaut Mookhut Tee, a young 


brammhan under serious con- 


cern, 222, 226, 232. Hapes 
entertaine l of him, 299, 343. 


Cast, Accounts of it by Mr. 
Thomas, 20. By Mr. Carey, 


142, 234, 379, 414. Its per- 
nicious influence, 90, 126, 
127,137, 182, 481. Pervales 
every concern of life, 90, 234. 


Those who lose it by becom- 


ing christians obliged to be 
supported by the missionaries 
on the coast, 334. Query on 
the converted natives being 
required to lose cast, 301. 

Christian Tustructions for the 
use of missions, by Dr. Ry- , 
land, 103, 104, 512—517. 

Christian Society, its value. felt 
by those who are deprived of 
it, 881 . 


Church at Leicester, their gene- 


rous conduct in resigning Mr. 
Carey, 35. 

Cicil gorerument, advice to the 
müissionaries respec ting it, 
51a; 

Canrersations with the natiyes, 


1 44 ' 


society, 333. Requests his 
dis mission from them to the 


Civil government, 370. Dis- 


xy, 374. Assigns to himself a 7 


165, 178-—191, 227,280 
284, 330, 356, 440 —445. 
Cornwall missionary excursions, 
2062, 358. Reflexions onthem, 
TAR 
Cc ornwallis, Lord, the English 
government in India assumed 
a favourable aspect under his 
admimstration, 72. : 
Critical remarks on several pas- 
sages of scripture, 393, 445. 
Crocodiles, not regarded in . 
gal, 955 Ws - 
D. 


Debtas, an account of them, 209, 
210, 300, 356. 
Departure of the last missiona- 
naries, account of, 520, 522. 
Difficulties in the work of the 
mission, see Cast. 
Dinagepour, an opening there 
- for preaching the gospel, 371, 
391. Encouraging, prospects, 
397, 436, 439. 
Doorgotteea, a hopeful charac- 
- ter, 319. Farther hopes of 
him, Vardee, and Sookmun, 
369, 430, 439. 
E. 
Encouragements, notwithstand- 
ing 1 difficulties, 485, 


'' A 


Europeans in Bengal, of pious 
character, encouraging to the 
: missionaries, 398, 401, 402. 
| F. Ws 
Taith, its importance to a mis- 
sSionary, 442, 463, 485. 
Fernandez, Mr, an Italian gen- 
tleman at Dinagepour, bis 
friendly regards to the mis- 
sion, 371, 391. Commissions 
torty pounds worth of English 
books, 393. His amiable cha- 
racter, 439. 
1 Toods, their destructive effects | 
in India, 451, 


INDEX. 


Nee Mr. engaged as a mis- Hindoo fables, 285. 3 
Sionary to Bengal, 237. His Hindoos, a timid effeminate peo- 


unpleasant voyage, 238, 300, 
340. Arrival at Diamond 
Harbour, 310, Calcutta, and 
Mudnabatty; his first inter- 
view with Mr. Carey, 311, 
337. First sa bbath at Moy- 
paul, 316. His ideas of Mr. 
Carey, 311. Respected by 


Mr. Carey, 373. His frat | 


sermon in Bengallee, 478. 

Fuller, Mr. his address to the 
missionaries at Leiceater, 36. 

G. 

General Meeting of the Sochety 
at Birmingham for the desig- 
nation of the African missio- 
naries, 99. 

Gericke, Mr. 
Carey, 431. 

Copel, its Gn differ- 

- ence from all other doctrines, 
230. Its influence on unbe- 
lievers, 291. 

Government . India, its impar- 
tiality, 72. 

Grant, Me. Wm. engaged as a 
missionary to Bengal. Ac- 
count of his conversion from 
- Intidelity, 501, 

Grigg, Mr. Jacob, engages in a 
mission to Aich 97. Settles 
at Port Logo, 243. Returns 

to Free Town, 244. Educates 
twochildren of Namina Modo, 

245. Hs manner of talking 
to the natives, 251. Termi- 
nation of the mission by means 
of his improper interference 
at Free Town, 257. Resolu- 
tion of the Society concern- 
ing him, 306. See Mission to 
rica. II. 

Hebrew, pronounciation retain- 
ed in the Bengallee transla- 
tion, 148. 


his letter to Mr. 


ple. Their size and colour, 
337, 386. Dress, 337,338, 
384—386, 464. Marriages, 


338. Behaviour, 464. Treat⸗ 


ment of their dead, 339. Con- 
cerning their origin, 377. Cus- 
toms resembling those of the 
jews, 377, 378. Their houses, 
and furniture, 382—384. Im- 
plements of husbandry, 464, 
Method of watering land, 466, 
Customs illustrative of scrip- 
ture, 479. Allow that there 


is one great God, whom they 


call Eshar, or Bhogabon; that 
the soul is immortal; that we 
have all sinned; and that some 
atonement is necessary, 19. 
Farther accounts of their opi- 
nions, 213, 214, 247, and 
idolatries, 7 2. (See Idols, $c.) 
Willing to attend upon the 
gospel, and ask questions of 


the preacher, and of one ano- 


ther so as to interrupt the 
discourse, 137, 345. Their 
arguments easily confounded, 
but their hearts generally re- 
main the same, 300, 441-445. 
Their objections to the gospel, 
231. Addictedness to astro-- 


logy, and other superstitions, 


142, 213. Confused ideas of 
a future state, 146, 442, 
Their zeal in a bad cause may 
Shame chris tians, 170. Su- 
perstitious fears of boots or de- 
mons, 208. Their horrid self- 
tormenting superstitions. (See 
Swinging, or Tortures.) Story 
of a man on the Malabar 
coast, torturing himself for 
the expiation of his sin, and 
who was relieved by the gos- 
pel, 28, 29. Burning of was 


INDEX. 


men on the death of their 
husbands, 56, 473. All their 
thoughts of God. and religion 
light and trifling, 129, 148. 
Reports of their benevolence, 
humanity, and meekness, not 
true. Avarice, servility, and 
treachery, prominent features 
in their character, 138, 142, 
230, 483. Adultery very 
common amongst them, 331. 
Fraud and falsehood esteemed 
no sins with them, 119, 191. 
Though docile and apparently 


inoffensive, yet cruel to ani- 


mals, 138, and unfeeling to- 
wards one another, 291, 326. 
On some occasions they will 
self-righteously talk of their 
good deeds, 282, and on o- 
thers, in the very spirit of 
European Antinomians, will 
plead their inability, and the 
will of God as excuses for sin, 
227, 330, 449, 482. A num- 
ber of them apply for instruc- 
tion, 193, Hopeful symptoms 
of a work of God amongst 
them, 224, 294, 306, 307. 
Addresses to them, and the 
Mahomedans, 64, 161, 121, 
131, 134, 146, 148, 162, 165, 
167, 177, 178, 187, 190, 191, 
193, 197, 199, 228, 288, 344, 
354, 355, 442, 450. Indi vidu- 
als amongst them who have 
discovered a convictionof the 
truth of the gospel, and con- 
_ cerning whom hopes have been 
_ entertained, See under the 
names, Boskoo, Mohun C Hund, 
Parbotee, Podo Loson, Cassi- 
naut -Mookhurgee, Yardee, 
Doorgotteea, Sookmun, Hurry 
Charon, &c. 
Hindostanee language, Mr, Ca- 
rey's account ot it, 93. | 


Hint to those who wish to send 
parcels to Mr. Carey, 487. 
Hurry Charon, account of, 420, 
436, 439, 471. Wo 
Hymns, by R. R. Boshoo, 82. 

Mr. Thomas, 461. Mr. Fuller, 
521. Mr. Ward, 521. Mr. 
Carey, 525. Mr. Fountain, 

526. I. 

Idols of the Hindoos, accounts 
of them, 167, 178, 184, 189, 
190, 191. Their notions con- 
cerning them, and manner of 
treating them, 133, 138, 199, 
416. Their true character de- 
seribed, 356. See Debtas. 

Infant exposed in a basket, 183. 

Instructions to the Mmissionaries, 
512,17. 

0 . 


Jahon, a term applied to cir- 


eumeised persons, 381. 

Jaggernaut, his illness, and Mr. 
Thomas' conversation with 
him, 280. 

Jinkoff, a Bootea officer, his 
treatment of the missionaries, 
362. 

Joodistheer, some account of, 
5298. 

Journal, Extracts from Mr. 
Carey s, 157, 407. Mr. Tho- 
mas', 27 8, 

K. 


Keman par hoibo, a question put 
by three Mussulmans to Mr. 
Carey, 326. 


Lama, its meaning in Bootan, 
365, 368. 

Letter, from some Hindoos to 
the late Dr. Stennett, 52. 
R. R. Boshoo to Mr. Morns, 
214. Several persons at Di- 
nagepour to the missionaries, 
226, 235. Mr. Hinton to the 
Society, 274. Mr, Gericke to 


| 
1 
N 
. [1 
1 1 
1 
. 
1. 
55 
$5) 
1 
HF 
q 
. 
53 
Vi 
11 
wits 
4 
Hp 
i; 
bit 
7 
1 


INDEX: 


Mx; carey, 430. Of dis- 


mission from the church at 
Broadmead to the church. at 
Mudnabatty, 507. 
Letters, from Mr. Carty, 
Dr. Arnold, 139. ö 
Mr. Blundel, 490. 

— Booth, 331. 
— Bruin, 136. 

— Cave, 348. 

The Church at Leicester, 34, 
182, 831. | 
Mr. Fuller, 127, 199, 318. 

360, 375, 397. 419, 451, 
— Horne; 231. | 

—- Morris, 234, 336, 380, 

: 468. 

Miss Wedle: 408. 

Mr. Newton, 342, 487. 

Mr. Pearce, 125, 222, 325, 
371, 401, 421, 480. 

— Prowitt, 144, 354. 
- His Relations, 134, 

406, 407. 


Dr. Ryland, 123, 93, 977, 


393. 
Mr. Schwartz, 428. 
The Society, 7, 61, 88, 121, 
146, 225, 345, 387. 
Mr. Sutcliff, 91, 329, 402, 
427, 493. 
Mr. Vates, 143. 
Letters, from Mr. FouxNTAiN 
to 
Mr. Fuller, 238, 308, 390, 
477, 492. 
Mr. Morris, 422. 
Mr. Pearce, 448. 
Mr. Read, 322. 
Dr. Rvland, 445. 
The Society, 313, 387. 
Mr. Smith, 329. 
Letters, from Mr. Gnidd, 
Mr. Fuller, 254. 
Mr. Pearce, 251. 
Dr. Ryland, 241, 250. 
Letters, trom Mr, Ronwar., to 


to 


to 


344, ? 


Mr. Fuller, 245. 
Dr. Ryland, 254. 
Letters, from the Society. to 
The Baptist church at Sierra 
Leone, 101. 
The Hindoo christians, 41. 
The Missionaries in Bengal, 
80, 149. 

Leiters, from Mr. THOMAS, fo 
Mr Booth, 119. 
Mr Fuller, 76, 

, 200; 440. 
Mr. Pearce, . 205, 294. 
A Relation, 457, 461. 
Dr. Ryland, 220. 
The Society, 85, 301. 
Lururꝝ of relieving the misera- 
| ble, 292. 


120, 201, 


Mahabharat, Extract from the, 
523. 
Malda, Europeans in that neigh- 
bourhood friendly to the gos- 
pel, 122. A monthly prayer- 
meeting among them, 492. 
Their generous contributions, 
492. 
Marshman, Mr. Joshua, engag- 
. ed as a missionary to Bengal. 
Account of bim, 502, 504. 


Mission to Hindostan wwlved 


on, 34, To Africa, 97. 
Missionaries, Hindoo, Their so- 
lemn designation, 36. De- 
parture, 45. Tempestuous 
voyage, 61. Religious worship 
at sea, 63. First interview 
with the natives, 64. First 
letters to England, 53. Re- 
quest a polyglot bible, 65. 
Their settlement in the neigh- 
bourhood of Malda, 85. Se- 
cular engagements justified, 
93, 301, 302. Feel their want 
of christian society, 135, 
171, 172; 351. Doctrmes 
they preach, 135, 203. Set 


IND E X. 


times for prayer, 185, Meet 
for prayer in an idol's temple, 
200. Difficulties arising from 
the ignorance of the people, 
204, 206. Their harmony 
and fellowship, 189, 186, 200, 
204, 206, 278, 312. Greatly 

interested by letters from 

"England, 208, 220, 298. 
Form a church in Bengal, 


225, 279. Their method of 


preaching, 230, 296, 297, 
450, 468. Hopeful appear- 


ances of a work of God, 294, 


297. Individuals under con- 
cern, 306. Happy sabbath 
at Moypaul, 316. Mr. Ca- 
rey's report of things at Moy- 
paul, 319. Summary account 
of encouraging appearances, 
342. Encouragements amidst 
all their difficulties, 128, 161; 
164, 166, 176, 322, 323, 
328, 341, 361, 372, 388, 
423. Their worship how con- 
ducted, 341, 468. Advan- 
tages of their situation for 
spreading the gospel through 
various nations, 346. Request 
the aid of more missionaries, 
372, 389, 422, 438, and that 
the whole attention of the so- 
ciety be directed towards 
strengthening this mission, 
373. Four more sent out in 
the spring of 1799. Particu- 
lar account of them, 498. See 
Carey, Thomas, Fountain. 

Missionaries, African, Their ac- 
ceptance, . 97, 98. Solemn 
designation, 104. Departure 
and arrival at Sierra Leone, 
242. Their agreeable recep- 
tion by the baptist church at 
Free Town, 247. Kindly no- 


ticed and assisted by the go- 
vernor, 242, 243. Welcomed 
by the natives, 249, 233. 
The unpleasant termination 
of this mission, 255, 259. 
Reflections upon it, 259, 261. 
See Grigg, Rodway. 


Mohun Chund, acconnt of him, 


21. Is pleased with the Mo- 
SAIC ceremonies, 206. Visits 
Dinagepour, and recommends 
the gospel, whence a letter is 
written to the missionaries, 
226, 135. A pitiable charac- 
ter, 327. Encouraging ac- 
count of him, 343. f 


Monthly prayer-meetings, re- 


Mussulmans, 


338. 


commended by the Associa- 
tion met at Nottingham in 
1784. What has followed, 
315. Missionaries in Bengal 
unite in it, 341. 

their character, 
and opinions, 72. Ignorant 


and idolatrous, but willing to 
hear the gospel, 121. Con- 


form to Hindoo customs, 127. 
137, 190. Their superstiti- 
ons, 177, 183. Peers, or de- 
parted spirits, 209. Mourn 
tor the dead once a month, 
Individuduals under 
concern about their salvation. 
See Fardee, Sookmun, Door» 
gottea, 


N, 


N. arratice of the first formation 


of the Society, 1. 


Namina Modo, a chief of Port 


4B 


Logo. | Commits two of his 
children to Mr. Grigg, 239. 
What he said on that occasi- 
on, 253. Ariana, his wite, 
an amiable woman, 253. 


INDEX. 


Newton, Mr., his thoughts on 
the missionaries | engaging in 
- $ecular we'd 0801. ©: 


Opmung of a place of worship at 
- Dinagepour, 8 


Parbotee, gccount of him, 22. 
His remarkable- prayer, 24, 
Letter to Dr. Stennett, 32. 
Other accounts of him, 436, 
449. 


Pearce, Mr. His affecting letter 


to the missionaries at the Ol- 


ney meeting, 617. 
Podo Loson, '@ Pundit of Nud- 
dea, assists in the trunslati- 


dn, 206. Under convictions, 


207. His ideas of mankind, 
and of his on countrymen, 
207. His prineiples and ob- 

jections resembling antinomi- 
anism, 227. Enquiries, and 

desires after the $Criptures, 
282, 294. 
Pordm, A young inquisitive Hin- 

doo, 420. 

Powel, Mr., baptized by Mr. 


Carey, 279. Farther pepojnt 


of him, 312. 

Prayer, for the suecess of the 
Mission recommended, 527. 

Printing-press.desired, 397, and 
procured by Mr. Carey, 469. 

Prostitute, deplorable account 


of the affliction and death of 


one, 289. 
Prorisions cheap in Bengal, 29. 
Q 


Questions to Mr. Carey, with 


answers, 409, By Raaz Ke- 


shore to the missionaries, 424. 
To Mr. Schwartz by Mr. Ca- 
rey, 431. 

R 


brammhan. Conversation with 
him on Christianity, &c, 211. 
Resolutions of the Society, and 
of the Committee, 3—6, 53, 
96, 98, 99, 238, 240, 304, 
357, 416—419, 522. 


| Revelation, its inestimable ad- 


vantages, 166, 

Rice, its kinds, and cultivation 
in "Bengal, 452, 
Ningletaube, Mr., 
missionary, 422. 
Rivers, seen from Mr. Carey” . 

house, 431. 
Rodway, Mr. James, engaged 
with Mr. Grigg in a mission 
to Africa, 98. His illness at 
Sierra Leone, 239. Returns 
to England, 254— 256. Tes- 
timonies in his favour, 256. 
Ryland's address on the desig- 

nation of the African missio- 
naries, 105. Instructions to 

dare gr g, 512. 


School, at ay 124. 

Given up on the Moonshi's 

defection, 325. Revived by 

the aid of Mr, Fountain, 373. 

Accounts of its progress, 420, 
436, 439, 479. One opened 
at Dinagepore, 527. 

Schwartz, the vencrable eastern 

missionary. Mr. Carey's let- 
ter to him, 398, 428. Mr. 
S. receives the letter, but dies 

before he could reply to it. 
Answered by Mr. Gerricke, 
421, 430. 

Scotland, the liberal exertions 
of all denominations in that 
part of the kingdom, for the 
translation of the Scriptures, 
and the encouragement of the 

mission, 240, 360; 417. 


an eastern 


Raa: Kevhore, an intelligent Sech, an imaginary deity, wor- 


INDEX. 


chipped by the Hindoos, 179, 


185, 213, 214. Mr. Thomas 


| hes on an ascent of one 
of his temples, 185, 186. The 
various names by which he is 
called, 410, 411. 


Self-tormenting superstitions of 


the Hindoos, 28, 59, 17 2— 


174, 197, 412, 493—498. 
Serpents, venomous, 92, 471. 
Shasters, or sacred writings of 

the Hindoos, 18, 129, 130, 

227, 229, 299, 300, 357. 
Soobah of Boutan, his kind and 

"liberal treatment of the mis- 

sionaries, 364. His house, 

364. Public ceremonies in 

honour of the missionaries, 

365. Acknowledges a su- 


preme Being, 368. His letter 


to Mr. Carey, 487. 

Sookmun, his serious concern, 
318. Conversation with him, 
332. Farther hopes of him, 
and his companions, 369, 
439. | 

Soasees, a people in Africa, en- 
couragements for a mission 
amongst them, 255. 

Spelling of Bengallee words, va- 
rious, 410, 447. | 

Story, interesting one, of a Hin- 
doo on the Malabar coast, 
28. 

Sun, worshipped by Hindoos 
and Mahomedans, 189, 411, 
Particular account-- of this 
worship, 404, 405. 

Sunderbunds, an immense forest 
in Bengal, 139, 168. 

Sulcliſf's address to the missio- 

naries, at Olney, 510. 

T 


Temples, Hindoo, 381. 
Thomas, Mr. John, How the So- 
ciety became acquainted with 


him,7. Narrative of him, and 
his labours in Indin, 13. His 
account of the Hindoos, 18. 
Engaged with Mr, Carey, in 
a mission to Bengal, 34, Ex- 
tracts from his diary, 278. 

After much dejection, is en- 
couraged in his work, 294, 
306, 307. His medical skill, 

and readiness to do good, a 
blessing to the Hindoos, 314, 
480. Visits a man wounded 
by a buffalo, 440. His excel- 

lent advice to his nieces, 457, 
461. Providential escape of 
himself and family, 460, 

Tibet, mountains of, 28, 470. 

Timmany, @ heathen people i in 
Africa, numerous and friend- 
ly, 248, 253. . 

Translation of the bible, its great 
importance, 292. Difficul- 
ties attending it, 164. Its 
progress, 227, 320, 345. Ex- 
pense of printing the new tes- 
tament, 320, 368. e of 
the translator, 368. Critical 
remarks on various passages, 
393, 453. 

— of 2 Cor. vi. 17. 203. 

Tune, Indian, to Boshoo's hymn, 
277. Account of it, 324. 

Tygers, account of, 92, 

v 


4 


Vakeel, a Bootea attorney. His 
treatment of the missionaries, 
366. 

FVeeshnoo, an imaginary deity of 
the Hindoos, worshipped by 
few, 213, 214. His nine in- 
carnations, 229, 300, 357. 

Village preaching in England, 


aided by the Society, 117. 


Its efforts, "_ 358. 


Utenstls of pusandry, Hindoo, 
404. | 


INDEX. 


W. of this truth in a Christian 
Wombn, burning of, 56—58. country, 322. 
Hindoo laws respecting it, | 


473—476. Yardee, ' a hopeful character, 
Ward, Mr: Wm., engaged as 307, 308. Mr. Careys' ac- 
missionary to Bengal. Ac- count of him, 319. His ac- 


count of him, 499. His de- count of himself and his coun- 

parture, 520. Hymn on the trymen, 326. Himself, and 
occasion, 521. | - others, persecuted by their 
TVorld lying in Wihdeideres, no connexions, 343, 369. Far- 
adequate idea can be formed ther hopes of him, 436. 


4 


— 
* 

8 

—_— 2 


— 


| Such as are diſpoſed to remember this Charity in their Willi, 
may uſe the following | Form of Bequeſt. j 


ITrzm. I give and bequeath unto A. B. and C. D. 
the ſum of upon truſt, to the intent 
that they, or either of them, pay the ſame to the Treaſurer, 
for the time being, of The particular Baptift Society for pro- 
pagating the Goſpel among ft the Heathen; for the uſe and ſup- 
part of the faid Society : and his receipt ſhall be a full and 
ſufficient diſcharge for the fame. 


— 


Dr — . — 


APPENDIX wy 


N unber VT. of Periodical Accounts 


= 


SUBSCRIPTIONS RECEIVED 


FROM 


October 1. 17 98, to October 1. 1799. | 


N. B. Those Names to which no place is annexed, are persons residing in 
| LonDON, or its Vicinity. 


4 


e 

M A. L. 8. D. L. 8. D. 
R. Abbot, Kings- 53 1 6 
tiorpe > = =.= 10-61] Me. Amt LELO 

— E. Abraham, Olney 1 10 — Arnsby, Brigstock 10 6 
Ditto. a Donation 5. 0 0 — Jos. Ash, Bristol 10 6 
— T. Adams ----- 10 6 . 2955; 
Mrs. Agace - - - - - > 2 20 Mr. J. Bacon -/ AF T0 
Mr. W. Andrews, Olney 2 2 0 — G. Bagster - 1 1 0 
Anonymous 10 6|— G. Bagster, jun. 1 1.0 
Ditto - - 5 00 Barber - - 1 10 
Ditto - = 1 10 Mos. R. Wulins e 
Ditto from Bristol 3 3 [Mr. Barnes, n 10 6 
Ditto ditto 10 6 — W. G. Bates 11 10 
Do. from Leicestershire 10 0 0 — Bates, Kettering, 
Do. from Northampton 1 1 0 A years - --;--+1 1.0 
Do. from Olney - - 10 6|}— P. Bateman - 1 10 
Do. from York - - 10 6||— J. P. Bateman - 1 10 
Do. by Mr. Blundel - 10 6 — Baylis, Whitchurck - 10 6 
Do. by Mr. Booth 10 10 0 — B. B. Beddome 1 1-0 
Ditto by Mr. Cooper, . 8. Beddome - 1 10 
Trowbridge = - - 1 1 0 — J. Bellis - 1 1 0 
Do. by Mr. J. Foster 5 5 0% — A. Benham 1 10 
Do. by Mr. Hemming 1 1 0 | — Benwell, Battersen 1 1 0 
Do. by Mr. Ward - 1 1 0 — Berridge, Northamp.1 1 0 
2.58 1 6 | 271 19 6 


A t 


| L. S. 82 L. 8. D. 
71 19 6 | 113 7 0 
Rev. Mr. Bicheno, New- Mr. J. Cowell - - 1 10 
bury - - - 1 10 — Rob. Covie - 5+50 
Mr. Blakemore, Birm. 10 6. D. 
— Bonville, Bristol 1 1 0 Mr. John Daniel, Bristol! 1 0 
— A. Booth = 1 1 0 Miss B. Daniel, Ditto 1 1 © 
— A. Booth, jun. 1.10 | Mr. S. Daniel, Glocester 1 1 0 
a — J. Booth '+ - - 1 10 — J. Dare - 1 10 
R. Bowyer, Es8q. - 1 1 0 Mrs. S. Davidson - 1 1 
Mr. W. Brookes - 1 1,04 Mr. Rob. Davies 1 1 
— Brounger ' - 1 1 Off Miss M. A. Davies 1 1 
— Bruin, Glenn 1 1 Of] Mr. W. Davis - - 1 1 
— Bryson, sen. 1 10 — Davis, Cheneys - 1 1 
— Bryson, jun. 1 {1 Orr James Day - - 1 1 
Rev. Mr. Bull, Newport 1 1 0 Rev. Mr. Dear, Bristol 1 1 
— Mr. Bull, W Miss Dennis 1 1 
bourne - 10 6|| Mr. Dent, Northamp. 1 1 
Mr. 8, Bull, Ditto 10 6 — James Dore - 1 1 
+ Jobs dat 1 1 0f— John lin 1 1 
— Burchell, Dornend 1 1 0 — J. Dunkin, jun. - 1 1 
- Burditt, Woodford 10 6 — Dunn, Trowbridge 1 1 
- Wm. Burls 1 1 00 — J. Dyer 1 1 
Rev. Mr. Burton, Foxton 10 66 e Ws 
Mr. Jos. Butterworth 1 1 of Mr. Eaglestone, Newport 10 
Rev. Mr. Buttun 1. 1 0{| Capt. Elliot, 2 years - 1 1 
Mr. Button, Graresend 2 0 0 Mr. Cha. Elliot - 1 1 
Miss R. Button 1 1 0 — W. Elston - --1 1 
Mr. Buttonchaw 1 10 — 8. Etheridge - 5 0 
| C. — B. Evans, Sutton 10 
Me. W.C. --- - 10 6 — John Everard 1 1 
— N. Carroll - 3 3 0 F. 
— C. Chinner - 1 1 0 Mr. Fauntleroy - 5 5 
— F. Churchill, Notting.1 1 0 — Geo. Fell - 1 1 
— James Clarke - 1 1 0 Messrs. Fenn and Wick- 
Mrs. A. Clodd - 1 1 O] enden - 4 4 
— E. Coade - - 2 20 Mr. Fenton - - - 10 
Rev. W. Coles, Ampthill 1 1 0 — Fidgen, Kettering 10 
Mr. R. Coles, Oakham 1 1 0 — Henry Fleteher - 2 2 
— James Collins - 1 1 0 — Thos. Flight - 1 1 
— John Cooke -- 1 1 0 — Forbes - — 1 1 
— W. Cordell - - 10 6 — John Foster, Biggles- 
2 20 wade, 2 years 2 2 
£.113 7 ol £.166 13 0 


Appendi r. 


1. s. v. . L. 5 

166 13 0 „ 

Mr. W. Foster, St. Neots 1 1 0 Nr. G. Hammond - 1 1 
Miss Foster, Ditto 1 1 0 — Hankinson” - 1 1 
Mr. Wm. Fox - 1 10 — E. Hanson 2 2 
— Floxwell - - - 1 1 0 Messrs. Hardcastle and _ 
— 8. Foyster. - 1 1 0 Reyner - - - 10 10 
— D. Freer, 4rnsby 10 6 Mr. Harris, Tilswortu 1 1 
— Wm. Freme - 1 1 0{— Harris, Kislingbury 10 
A Baptist Friend, Brisfol5 5 0 — W. Harrison - * -* 10 
William Fuller, Esg. 5 5 0; Mrs. Harwood, Birm. 1 1 
Mr. A. Fuller, Kettering1 1 Mr. Hedges, Newbury 10 
— H. Fyzh - - - 1 1 0 — W. Hemming, A 
4 "I wood = - 1 11 

Mr. T. Gardiner - 1 1 0|— W. Henbest 1 1 
— W. Garland - - 1 1 0 — J. Hepburn 1 1 
Mrs. Gasquoine, H. Nor- Messrs. Hepwood and 
„ > a 0-01 Crosby, York - 1 1 
Nr. W. Gies 10 — J. he 1 
— W. Gillmann 10 6 Mr. Hill, WWestminster 1 1 
— W. Glover, Birming- | Mr. J. Hil, V oo ford 10 
T 
— Goodacre, Leir 2 2 0 Miss M. Hills - 1 1 
— Goode, Cotteniam 10 6 Mrs. Hirons, Bim. 10 
— Jesse Gouldsmith 1 1 0 — 6. IIob / 11 
C. Grant Es g. 3 3 0 Rev. R. Hong, Thrit- . 
Mr. B. Graves 2 2 ©. 27 
—T. Graves 1 1 0 Mrs. Holley - 2 2 
Rev. Mr. Greatheed 2 2 0 Mr. S. IIooper— 11 
Mr. Greene, Kings- Rev. M. Horne LF 2 
thorpe = „ 10 6 — J. Hughes 10 
Mrs. Greene 1 1 0 Mr. Humphreys, - Com- 
Mr. A. Greenwood, Jun. 10 6 lest lorpe 2 2 

— W. Griffin, 1 J. RY 
stone - 10-6}; Mr. A. Jackson - 1 1 

- J. Gurney. 1 To} S. n 1 
— W. B. Gurney - 1 1 Mrs. Jackson 10 
Mrs. M. Gurngexr 1 1 0 Mr. P. Ja [ 
Mr. J. Gutteridge 2 2 0 — J. James, Olney 1 1 
_ — T. Jacques - - 1 1 
Mr. W. Hale - 1 1 0 — J. Jesop *- 10 
Rev. R. Hall, Cambridge 1 1 C — J. Johnson 10 
Mr. L. Hall, Northamp. 1 1 0; — O. Johnson, Bum. 1 1 
£220 2 6! | £206 6 


& 


! SS SSS O8! 


008 


> 


[Sensen eo 


— p —— — — pda 


L. 3. D 
| 20 6 0 

. 
Mrs. 3 Walworth 1 1 0 
Mr, T: Key -- „ 116 
— T. King, Birm. - 3. 3 0 
| „%o | 
Mrs. Lambb - 1 10 
Mr. B. Lepard | -' - 1 +1 0 
G. Levius Esq. Bedford 5 5 0 
Mr. W. Lund, York 10 6 
8 "M. | A 
Mr. 1. Mackenzie - +; 10 
— Manning, 2 4 
„ eie 10 6 
A. * 27 20 
Rev. J. Mayor 10 6 
Mr. J. Mayor 1 10 
— Mead * WB 1 1 0 
— 8. Medley - 1 10 
— G. W. Meriton 10 6 
— G. Meyer 1 18 
— J. Middleton 1 1 0 
Mrs. Mills --- - 1 10 
Mr afills - 2 20 
——  *B; Mills -.- - 2 2 0 
— R. Morris - 1 10 
Mrs. Munn - - -- 1 1 0 
D. R. Munn Eq. - 1 10 

* 

J. Neale Esq. 2 22 
Mr. J. Neale, 2 Lears 2 2 0 
Mrs. Newbury - 1 1 0 
Mr. J. Norton 72 18 

O. 
Mr. D. Orme and friend 2 2.0 
— T. Osborne - 106 
— Osborne, Olney 1 10 
— Overbury, Tetbury 2 2 0 

P. 
Mr. Page  - - - 11 0 
Rev. S. Palmer - - 1 1 0 
1 1-0 
£.313 0 6 


— 


Messdms. 


|— Salter - - 1 


Un 
N 


l OSS O8 Oe 0 SS OOO SSS ec se d! 


K 
; 313 
Mr. J. Parker 1 
Mrs. A. Parker 1 
Mr. Parsons, Taunton 5 
Mrs. Peach, Northamp. 
— (Jos.) Peach, Nor- 
thampton = = = 
Rev. J. Penny 
Mr. Pewtress, Northam. 
— G. Phillips +- - 
_ Phillips, Birm. 
— - Pickersgill - = 
— 8. Ponder 3-6 
Mr. Pope, jun. Birm. 
— Potts, Birm. - - 
— J. Pritt - 
1” 
Mr. Randall! 1 
— Ransford, Sen. Bris- 
8 
— T. Ransford, do. 
— Ratnet, Northamp. 
— T. Read =. - 
— Rennard, 2 Years 
— J. Reynolds 
— W. Rivers 
Rivers and 
Rutt 3. - - 1 
Mr. Robinson - 1 
— Rose, Bromggroce 
— Russell, Fork 1 
I. 1 
1 8. 
Mr. Sabine 10 
— 8. Salloway - 1 


© mm Oo) 


— 


0 „ e EET 
MO hs ck fond fad fend DO) ——— 


— 


ee 
O00 . 


— 


— , 
Me 


— W. Salter 
— S. Salter, Watford 1 
— Satchel, Kettering 
W. Savill Ezq, - - 2 
Mr. Scott, un-. 
— Sewell, Leir - 1 


mw OO OHWOmMmHMO. 


— 


— 


70 
2 
— 
O 
Gr 


1 


8888888888888 88. 


. 8. 5. „ 
SI'S: 5 8053-5 - 6; 431 14 6 
Rev. J. Sharpe, * 1 10 Mrs. B. Wallis, et- 
Mrs. Shaw - <= - 1 1.0y: - fering - » - 2: 20 
Mr. B. Shaw - 1 1 0 Mr. J. Warmington 1 1 0 
— W. Shenstone 10 6 — W. Weare 1 10 
W. Sheppard Esq. prome 2 2 Of] Miss S. Welbrook, - 1 10 
Mr. W. Shrubsole 1 1 Of Mr. A; West. 1 1 0 
— T. Smim 2 2 0 — R. Wetley - 10 6 
— E. Smith -- 1 1 0 Miss Wharton 1 10 
— T. Smith - 1 1 Of Mr. D. Whitaker 1 10 
Rev. W. Smith - 1 1 0 — A. Wilkins 10 6 
Mr. M. Smith, Nort am. 1 1 0 Mrs. Reb. Wilkinsen 1 1 
— A Sparkhall - - 10 6 Miss Wilkinson 1 1 
— Sprigs, Birm. 1 1 Mr. J. Wills - 2 2 
B. Stennet 10 6 — Jos. Wilson 3 3 
— W. Summers 1 1 0 — T. Wilson 2 2 
— Sutcliff, Olney + 1 1 0 — J. Wilson 1 1 
T — W. Wilson 1 1 
Miss E. T7. 1 1 0 — W. Wikon, Olney 10 
Mr. W. Taylor - 1 1 0 — T. Wontner » 1 1 
Rev. Mr. Thompson k 1 Of = J. Wontner -. 10 
H. Thornton Es q. 5 5 0 Mrs. Wood, » - 2 2 
R. Thornton Es g. 5 35 0 Rev. B. Woodd - 1 1 
S. Thornton ES g. 3 3 0 Mr. G. E. Woodhouse 1 1 
Mr. J. Thornton — 1 1 0 Miss Wyatt, Arnsby = 1 1 
— W. Tidd, Ashwell 1 1 0 Mrs. Wykes, Nortloug, 10 
Rev.T. Toller, Kettering 10 6] Y.Z. - = += 2 0 
Miss R. Tomkins - 5 0 0 8 
Mr. B. Tomkins - 1 10 
— T. Towle. - -- 1 10 3.0 
— A. Toer, Bristot 2 2 0 1 
— Turland, Bugbrook 1 1 0 COLLECTIONS 
Miss Tyler, Bristol — 1 1 0 | AND 
V iq DONATIONS. 
Mr. H. Vere - 1 10 
— W. Vine 110 l 
| Abingdon - - <- 15 12 0 
Mrs. G. 1 ee A 00 esl 2 0 0 
Boston, Bap. Churck 2 2 0 
Dr. e „ — ditto, | 
Messrs. Wallis, Cook, on 
and Hammond a 5 0 1 = 
£431 14 6 4E. 881 110 


L. 8. b. ¶ Collections and Donations for 


75 518 110 the Translation of the 

| Cambridge, ape: | Seriptures.  * 
Congregation - 23 8 10 L. 8. 9. 
Eving, Rev. Grevill, Mr. E. Ash, Bristol -T'; 150 
one fifth of the profits — Burls's family - 2 '2 0 
of the Missionar — R. Davies 110 
Magazine 38 Ty 0{] Frome'Collection - 27 10 0 

Hampe ige and Wilt- [Glasgow A | 
shire Society 38 13 Society - 50 O00 


Isleham - 4 12 7 Robert Haldane Exq. 
Leicester - - - - Edinburgh -- 100 0 0 
Lyme 286 Rev. R. Hogg, Thrap- - 
Nottingham - -. - 36 stone 5 5 0 
5. 
Z 
2. 
2 


1 
2 
> 

— — 

228 


Roll! 
Shan 
West Row, Mildenhall 
uns aer 105. 6d. 


DISBURSEMENTsS. 


Frox OcTorrr 1. 1798, To OcroßER 1. 1799. 


Mr. Fuller, for journeys and expences in col- | 9 8 

lecting, and otherwise serving the mission — 33 19 8 
Mr. Sutcliff, for Journeys and AAR in col> 

lecting for the mission 11 06 


Secretary's accompt x postage, carriage, Sta- 
tionary, e. 8 26 
Treasurer's eue ſor Ditto, including chose 


of Mr. Pearce, and Dr. Ryland - - g 2 
Board, education, and other expences of mis- | 

sionaries on probation - - - — T1 45:9 
Journeying and other expences of the missiona- 

ries preparatory to their departure - - 
Passage for four men, four women, and four 


children to India - - - - - 840 00 
Cloaths and other accommodations for the mis- 


sionaries during the voyage, and on their arriyal 407 17 6 


66 7 0 


4.1446 5 1 


= 
*S, * 


— 2 


after leaving the shi? 200 00 
For their immediate support on 4 200 0 0 
ee to the missionaries in India Nat 136 0 0, 
English Types, and other printing materials 22 1 15 
w Drugs for the use of the missionaries on 20 12 0 
8 V Expences of Committee meetings = — — 10 9 11 
Th, Printing Periodical Accounts „ 280 4 6. 


Ly 2 9 "IT 4+. 850 
| ef 0 on to the Moravian Society 20 T0 
| 4 | Wi of 2 80 OOO.” T 


4.9 


| 2095 6 8 
bo „ 
So SC  OTTOS 
- 3 %% SIS 
2 bs 31 04 


Subscription ie 
Ditto for Translate 
Interest of monies 


Sale of Periodical Ac Want 


= _ '£:3962 18 34 
2218 14 0+ 


5 | Total of Receipts. 
Total of Expenditure = 


1744 4 27 
a - 


— 8 * * 


—— 


*.* Mien the last sheet of the present Number was nearly finished, 
the Committee received the painful intelligence, that Mr. GRANT, 
one of the last missionaries, died of a fever soon after his arrival 
in India, and previous to their haring enjoyed an interview with 

| | their brethten ! 


1 | Books for the miionaries |». > „ 00-1005: 
5 Por incidental expences TORE? the D +, and . roy 


24 


5 y WO capios of the Duf's Voyage, $ubscribed „ 


ge 


> WM 
+ 


. 
bak 


. 


0 * y 5 4 
„„ *% 
Io be 


. q a - # 92 n 7 / 125 1 23 TY 
continue Monthly, Price Sixpencte. 
1 } | 1 1 * 7 4 4; 


70*coxstsr ik Cr 


nal pieces on various Theological- subjects, Keclesiastical history, Ner- 


py 


ratives of Dissenting congregations, Mizsjonary occurrenees, Biogt phical 


Sketches, Obituary, Religious Intelligence, Anecdotes, Review of Reli- F 


Siu publications, Dev | z &c. 
F 4 3h , = 


4 


' W we 6 br hs . ä 8 36 aps 4 | 2 | 1 
be Proprietor respectfully informs the religious public, 


tat, having ns connexion whatever with the former editor of x 
work under tis title nor with any bookseller in town or co 


try, he is induced to the present undertaking from an idea ithaff = 


there are many serious, intelligent christians to whom a month 2 
publication, adapted to Evangelical. Pissenters, would b 


ceptable. 


— body is composed, and however opposite i 

respects t 

proportion are in favour of What are usually termed 
sentiments: But whether this be the cage or not, the 
of opinion that he shall best acquit himself by avo 
tachment to those principles, and that his labours 5 
ducted under their influence in subservieney to thy cause of 

truth and righteousness. Having made this explicit avowal of 


rthodox 


his sentiments, he wishes it to be understsod that a spirit 


of free enquiry and liberal discussion xi be regarded as a leading 
object ot the work, and that therefore @ Strict conformity to his 


on religious views will in no-c2z be made the rule of admission. 


To accomplish the presgut design, and to present serious 


christians of every description with at interesting Miscellany, 


arrangements will be made with several ministers eminent for 


talents and piety, many of whom are well known to the religious 


world by their literary labours. These engagements; however, 
are not intended to preclude occasional correspondents: On the 


contrary, e ery friend to evangelical principles is respectfully in- 


vited to lend his assistance, and the Editor will be particularly 
obligzd by the earliest articles of Religious Intelligence propetly 
auchenticated, and for well-written papers on other interesting 
subjects. 85 | 0 


4 A 


„Orders and Communications for the PR 0 TES TAN * 
DISSENT ERS“ M4GAZINE may be addressed to the _ 
Printer, Mr. MoxR1s, Clipstone, Northamptonshire; or Mr. 


BuTTON, 24, Paternoster-Row, London. 


— Sold by Button, Paternoster-Row ; Conder, Buckler re 5 
Wiliam:, Stationer's:'Court, London. 


% 


* 


9 o . : * I: 4 
323 
0 2 a * 2 * 8 N 
RIS 5 7 


5 " 4 KY . $2 : 
— ing oy . * 
. SEN ba 
„ü St ts | 
\ r k . , ih 
7 E * 7 | "=P 
1 - . 
of x 2 i $6 WW 4 1 
1 * : N 1 4 1 4 I XI 
9 I; A 1 
" F - " \ 
* 0 7 A 
c 
Lo 
2 


_ ” 


Notnithstanding the various denominations of which the 


* r gy | some 
eir peculiarities may be, it is presumed that n large 


32 
. * V 2 A 
2 x 
. * 
> 


