Digitized  by  tine  Internet  Archive 

in  2010  witin  funding  from 

University  of  Toronto 


http://www.archive.org/details/newworldofcentraOOguin 


c? 


■^ 


u 


THE  NEW  WORLD  OF  CENTRAL  AFRICA. 


THE 

NEW    WORLD 


OF 


CENTRAL    AFRICA. 

WITH   A    HISTORY    OF    THE 
FIRST  CHRISTIAN  MISSION  ON  THE  CONGO. 


MRS.    H.    GRATTAX    GUINNESS, 

Hon,  Sec.  of  the  East  London  Institute  for  Home  and  Foreign  Missions, 
Harley  House,  Bo-o,  E, 


WITH    MAPS.   PORTRAITS.  AND    ILLUSTRATIONS. 


^^onbon : 

HODDER   AND    STOUGHTON, 

27,   PATERXO.STER   ROW. 

MDCCCXC. 


tlO 


Bl'tler  &  Tanxer, 

.The  Selwood  Printing  Works, 

FiiOME,  4ND  London. 


PREFACE. 

Our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  cares  for  Central  Africa.  He 
died  to  redeem  its  sons  and  daughters  as  well  as  the 
rest  of  mankind.  This  conviction  gives  courage  to 
His  servants  in  seeking  to  save  among  its  dark  tribes 
— difficult,  and  all  but  hopeless,  as  the  task  at  first 
sight  appears. 

Men  of  the  world  mock  at  the  attempt,  and  ridicule 
the  idea  that  such  "  undeveloped  "  human  beings  can 
ever  be  transformed  into  God-fearing  and  spiritually- 
minded  Christians.  But  what  can  they  say  to  facts  ? 
Such  transformations  may  be,  for  they  have  already 
been.  To  the  Bantu  races  of  the  Dark  Continent  the 
gospel  has  proved  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation. 
Ridicule  looks  foolish  in  the  light  of  reality,  and  expe- 
rience smiles  at  incredulity. 

This  book  records  the  work  of  a  band  of  heroic 
young  Christian  men  and  women,  who  gave  them- 
selves to  live  or  die,  as  it  might  please  God,  that 
Central  Africa  might  receive  the  gospel. 

Inspiration  has  preserved  for  us  the  acts  of  the  first 
apostles,  and  they  left  us  an  example,  among  other 
things,  of  rehearsing  in  the  ears  of  the  Church  at  home 
the  incidents  of  their  missionary  undertakings.     They 

b 


vi  PKEFACE. 

assumed  that  all  the  disciples  were  equally  interested 
with  themselves  in  the  spread  of  the  gospel.  We 
do  the  same  in  giving  this  story  of  the  Livingstone 
Inland  Mission.  We  record  facts  that  may  cheer 
the  hearts  of  tho.se  now  labouring  in  the  field,  and 
point  to 

•'  Footprints,  that  perhaps  another, 

Sailing  o'er  life's  solemn  main, 
A  forlorn  and  shipwrecked  brother, 

Seeing,  shall  take  heart  again." 

In  telling  the  story  we  necessarily  depict  more  or 
less  of  the  sphere,  and  present  its  claims  on  Christians ; 
relating  at  the  same  time  some  of  the  remarkable 
providences  which  indicate  the  will  of  God  as  to  the 
immediate  evangelization  of  Africa. 

The  book  makes  no  pretension  to  literary  excel- 
lence. It  has  been  prepared  in  the  scant  leisure 
afforded  by  the  pressing  practical  duties  of  a  mis- 
sionary secretary,  and  this  must  be  pleaded  as  the 
apology  for  many  defects.  It  is  in  some  senses  a 
fresh  and  enlarged  edition  of  one  published  some 
years  ago,  and  long  out  of  print,  entitled,  "  The  First 
Christian  Mi.ssion  on  the  Congo."  But  the  former 
work  was  less  than  a  fifth  part  the  size  of  this,  and 
told  the  story  of  two  years  only,  instead  of  that  of 
twelve ;  so  that  this  is  virtually  a  new  book,  and  we 
have  therefore  given  it  a  new  title. 

Since  the  issue  of  that  first  narrative  Central  Africa 
has  been  far  more  largely  explored,  and  its  claims 
on  Christian  love  and  compassion  are  so  much  the 
stronger  and  better  understood.     There  is  no  deny- 


PREFACE.  vii 

ing  that  mission  work  in  the  Dark  Continent  is  a 
hard  task,  and  one  that  demands  much  self-denial, 
faith,  and  patience.  Our  pages  prove  however  that 
it  is  no  forlorn  hope,  and  that  the  obstacles  to  success 
are  by  no  means  insuperable. 

Too  much  has  perhaps  been  said  about  the  dan- 
gers of  the  climate  and  the  difficulties  of  the  work. 
Pioneering  in  barbarous  countries  must  always  be 
attended  with  considerable  risk,  and  Central  Africa 
has  been  no  exception  to  the  rule.  But  the  pioneer- 
ing work  there  is  now  largely  done,  and  the  dangers 
and  hardships  are  proportionately  diminished.  The 
Bantu  races  over  millions  of  square  miles  are  now 
almost  as  easily  accessible  to  the  gospel  as  the 
Chinese  or  the  Hindus.  They  have  been  fairly  intro- 
duced to  the  knowledge  of  the  civilized  world  ;  may 
they  be  speedily  embraced  in  the  love  of  the  Chris- 
tian Church ! 

That  this  book  may  to  some  extent  conduce  to 
such  a  result  is  the  earnest  desire  of  the  writer. 


'^ICCCiU-ce^. 


East  London  Institute  for 

Home  and  Foreign  Missions, 

Harley  House,  Bow,  London,  E. 
March,  1890. 


CONTENTS. 

SECTION  I. 
THE  NEW  WORLD   OF  CENTRAL   AFRLCA. 

CHAPTER    I. 

What  it  Is. 

Further  knowledge  about  Africa  needed. —Reasons  why  it  has 
been  so  long  concealed. — Christian  responsibility  towards 
the  Dark  Continent.  —  Definition  of  the  new  world  of 
Central  Africa. — Length  of  the  Congo  water-way. — The 
Congo  Free  State. — The  Bantu  races. — ^The  Soudan  as 
distinct  from  Central  Africa. — Drummond  on  the  African 
man. — Sketch  of  a  Central  African  village. — A  roadless 
world. — Its  inhabitants  not  primitive,  but  sin-degraded. — 
The  last  great  task  of  the  Church    .         .         .    pp.  1-33. 

CHAPTER  II. 

A  Journey  through  the  Nf.w  World. 

Lessons  learned  from  book-titles. —  Meaning  of  "Through  the 
Dark  Continent." — From  Zanzibar  to  the  lakes. — The 
Victoria  Nyanza  plateau.— The  Central  African  Alps. — 
After  two  years'  travelling,  the  mighty  Congo  at  last ! — 
Four  months  floating  down  stream. — Struggles  with  the 
mighty  river.  —  Tragedies  of  the  Cataract  gorge.  —  The 
Atlantic  at  last. — The  providence  of  God  in  this  journey. — 

PP-  35-51- 


CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER  III. 

How  THE  Free  Staie  was  Founded. 

Stanley's  third  mission  in  Africa.— The  founding  of  the  Congo 
Free  State. — Leopoldville,  1881.— A  Congo  Candace. — 
Discovery  of  Lake  Leopold. — Second  expedition. — Work 
on  the  Upper  Congo.—  "  Friends,  this  is  a  rich  country." — 
An  African  Hercules. — Wangata  Station  and  Mata  Bwyki. 
— A  brave  Scotchman. — Commercial  genius  of  the  Con- 
goese. — Return  to  Europe,  1884    .        .        .    pp.  53-75. 

CHAPTER  IV. 

The  Berlin  Conference. 

Europe's  need  of  Central  Africa. — King  Leopold  II.  of  Belgium. 
—  What  was  to  become  of  the  new  world  ?  —  Position 
assumed  by  Portugal. — The  Berlin  Conference. — Large 
concessions  to  Portugal  and  France. — Formation  of  the 
Congo  Free  State. — Its  limits,  those  of  the  Congo  basin. — 
Leopold  first  king.— Provisions  for  free  trade,  anti-slavery, 
and  religious  liberty pp.  77-88. 

CHAPTER  V. 

Portuguese  Claims  to  African  TERRrroRV. 

Papal  geography. — The  objects  of  European  interference  in 
Africa. — These  never  obtained  under  Portuguese  influence. 
—Portuguese  colonial  history. — Vast  empire  in  the  si.\- 
teenth  century.  — Steady  decay  ever  since. — Condition  of  her 
internal  and  colonial  resources. — Mercantile  marine  all  but 
extinct. — Manufactures  the  same. — Reasons  for  this  singular 
history. — Condition  of  her  remaining  colonies. — Ruined 
by  the  abolition  of  the  slave-trade. — Portugal  not  likely  to 
help  East  Africa.  —The  colonists  still  connive  at  slavery. — 
Experience  of  Cameron  and  Livingstone. — Testimony  of 
Antonio  Gallenga. — Portugal  and  Nyassaland.— Freedom 
of  great  natural  highways     ....    //.  91-113. 


CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER  VI. 
Africa's  Greatest  Curse. 

The  "  open  sore  of  the  world." — The  Arab  slave-trade. — Ful- 
filment of  the  prophecy  about  Ishmael. — The  Arab  plan  of 
campaign. — Commander  Cameron's  testimony. — Cardinal 
Lavigerie's  testimony. — Stanley's  experience. — Ivory  and 
gunpowder  at  the  back  of  slavery. — Progress  of  the  slave- 
trade  in  Nyassaland. — What  Major  Wissmann  saw  among 
the  Basonge. — Bagna  Pesihi. — The  harassed  and  depopu- 
lated districts. — The  Brussels  Conference. — Four  short 
railways. — The  domestic  slavery  of  Africa     pp.  1 15-137. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

Europe's  Sin  and  Africa's  Sorrow. 

The  drink  traffic. — The  guilty  nations. — The  dimensions  of  the 
trade. — Its  ruinous  effect  on  natives. — The  "vested  rights" 
of  drink-sellers. — Experience  of  W.  S.  Caine,  M.P. — At 
whose  door  the  crime  lies. — Kroo  villages  a  kind  of  hades. 
— The  extermination  of  the  race  a  question  of  time. — Free 
trade  need  not  include  free  trade  in  drink. — Native  converts 
say,  '•  Christians  do  not  drink." — Prohibition  the  only  cure. 

pp.  138-153. 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

Present  Condition  of  the  New  World. 

Later  discoveries. — The  Mobangi  and  the  Kasai.— The  value 
of  the  Congo  basin. — The  proposed  Congo  railway. —  Legis- 
lation of  the  Congo  Free  State. — Administrative  divisions. 
— Garangange  and  Kasongo. — The  Great  Lake  district. — 
The  French  Congo     .....    pp.  1 55-1 71. 


CONTENTS. 


SECTION    II. 

THE   HISTORY  OF    THE    LIVINGSTONE  INLAND 
MISSION. 

CHAPTER  I. 

Wnv  WK  Began  the  Mission,  and  How. 

An  open  door.  —  Deliberations. — Basis  of  the  L.I.M. — The 
Lower  Congo  in  1878. — Henry  Craven. — Obstacles  to  pro- 
gress.—^Crocodiles,  scorpions,  and  serpents. — The  first 
Christian  home  in  Congoland. — Poor,  bleeding  Africa. — 
The  founding  of  Banza  Manteka. — Death  of  James  Telford. 
First  Christian  grave  on  the  Congo. — .\frican  life  by  Mr. 
Henry  Richards. — A  .Scotchman's  devotion   pp.  175-201. 

CHAPTER    II. 

The  McCall  Expedition,  1880. 

The  need  of  more  vigorous  measures. — Adam  McCall,  of 
Leicester. — His  travels  and  e.xperience  in  South  Africa,  the 
Transvaal,  Matabeleland,  on  the  Zambesi,  and  in  the 
Barotse  valley. — Volunteers  for  the  Congo. — His  colleagues. 
— Importance  of  thorough  outfit. — Faith  and  effort. — "  A 
better  investment." — Farewell  meetings  at  Leicester,  Ply- 
mouth, etc. — The  Vanguard. — Departure  of  the  party. — 
The  attempt  to  use  donkeys. — Experience  with  Kroo-boys. 
— Death  of  Charles  Petersen. — Rescue  of  native  victims. 
— Matadi  Minkanda. — Disappointing  experience  with  don- 
keys.— Attacked  by  wasps.— A  man  burned  to  death. — No 
carriers. — A  timeless  world. — Terrible  discouragements. 

pp.  203-236. 

CHAPTER    III. 

Ch.\nge  in  the  Management  of  the  Mission. 

Need  of  strengthening  the  home  department. — The  Rev.  A. 
Tilly  resigns  the  Secretaryship,  which  is  undertaken  by 
the  writer. — Proceedings   of    the    Committee.— Reinforce- 


CONTENTS. 


ments  needed,  i88r. — Three  thousand  pounds  sent  in. — 
Donation  of  a  house  for  Banana.  —  The  Livingstone 
steam-launch. — Her  trial  trip  on  the  Congo. — Messrs. 
Ingham,  Angus,  Smith,  and  Waters. — Wedding  and  part- 
ing.— The  Congo  dialects  and  the  Bantu  tongues. — First 
grammar  and  translations. — A  boy's  prayer  in  Congo,  in- 
terlined with  translation. — Drummond's  testimony  to  Moolu. 

pp.  237-266. 

CHAPTER   IV. 
A  Dark  Year  in  the  Dark  Continent. 

Need  of  a  steamer  for  the  upper  river. —  Donation  of  one  from 
the  Antipodes. — Fever  and  flood. — Death  of  Hugh  Mc- 
Kergow. —  Native  difficulties  in  understanding  missionary 
deaths. — Progress  at  Palabala  and  Banza  Manteka. — 
Prayer  for  rain  answered. — Difficulties  in  canoeing  on  the 
river. — Bemba  Station  among  the  Basundi. — The  4th  of 
Feb.,  1881. — "Dead  news  for  you,  sir." — "Cast  down, 
but  not  destroyed." — Shooting  a  boa-constrictor. — Need  of 
patience. — Not  explorers,  but  missionaries. — McCall's  last 
visit  to  Palabala. — Terrible  sufferings. — Obhged  to  come 
home. — Embarks  on  the  Liialaba       .        .    pp.  267-289. 

CHAPTER   V. 

The  Voyage  Home. 

Last  look  at  Africa. — Final  entries  in  the  log. — Lands  at 
Madeira. — Fatal  attack. — The  good  Samaritan. — The  gale 
and  the  Garth  Castle. — -A  desolate  voyage  ;  too  late  ! — 
Severe  trial  of  faith. — Death  of  Mary  Richards. — The  value 
of  a  missionary's  wife. — Danger  no  excuse  for  disobedience. 
—  Our  marching  orders       ....    pp.  291-306. 

CHAPTER  VI. 

Reinforcements  and  Firstfruits. 

Faint,  yet  pursuing. — Dr.  A.  Sims,  of  Aberdeen,  volunteers. — 
First  medical  missionary. — Mr.  William  Appel. — Messrs. 
Liley  and   Westlind.— A  new  party  of  nine. — "Do   send 


CONTENTS. 


plenty  teachers." — Men,  money,  sympathy,  and  prayer. — 
Uaptism  of  native  lads ;  firslfruits  from  Congoland. — 
Their  return,  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Craven  to  Africa. — Messrs. 
Harvey  and  liilhngton  invaUded  home       .    //.  307-317. 

CHAPTER   VH. 

Progress  in  Africa  in  18S2. 

Difficulties  of  the  North  Bank. — Scarcity  of  food. — Mukim- 
bungu  and  Lukunga  stations. — Deserters. — Stanley's  visit  to 
Lukunga. — Native  conscience  about  murder. — Burning  of 
Bemba  Station.— Fire  at  Palabala     .        .    /A  3'9~335- 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

The  Death  Roll  of  1882. 

Haben's  return. — "  Lanceley  gone  !  " — Mr.  Clarke's  account  of 
the  tragic  circumstances. — A  martyr  for  Jesus. — Deaths  of 
Jesse  Blunt  at  Palabala  and  of  William  Appel  at  Banana. 
— Dangerous  energy. — Extreme  caution  required. — The  law 
of  fruitfulness. — Livingstone's  day  of  discouragement. — By 
God's  help,  "  Forward." — In  memoriam     .    pp.  337-353. 

CHAPTER   IX. 

Leopoldville  and  the  Upper  Congo. 

Dr.  Sims  at  Stanley  Pool,  1883.— Preparations  for  building  the 
Henry  AVt'^/.— Description  of  the  mission  steamer.— The 
five  hundred  loads  to  be  carried  about  225  miles.— In- 
fluence of  Christian  lads.— Marriages  of  Mr.  White  and 
Mr.  Ingham. —  Banana  Station  moved  to  Mukimvika.— 
The  buildings  at  Leopoldville.— Description  of  Stanley 
Pool.— Two  months'  voyage  in  canoe.— First  death  of  a 
Christian  native.— Topsy's  brief  story.— Equator  Station, 
Wangata.— The  N'kundu  tribes.— Dr.  Sims'  voyage  to  the 
P'alls  and  back  with  Mr.  Grenfell,  of  the  B.M.S.— Launch 
of  the  Henry  Reed pp,  355-388. 


CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER   X. 

Transfer  of  the  Mission  to  American  Management. 

Condition  of  the  Livingstone  Inland  Mission  in  1884. — Pre- 
liminary difficulties  overcome. — Extension  and  importance 
of  the  enterprise. — "  Individuals  die  ;  societies  live  on." — ■ 
The  American  Baptist  Missionary  Union. — Its  antecedents 
and  present  undertakings. — Transfer  of  the  Livingstone 
Inland  Mission. — Staff  and  stations  at  the  time. — Death  of 
Mr.  H.  Craven  at  Kabinda. — Messrs.  Hoste  and  McKittrick 
and  others  join  the  Mission        .         .         .    /V^.  39 1-409- 


SECTION  III. 

LIGHT  AT  LAST;    OR,  A   MORNLNG   OF  JOY  ON 
THE   CONGO. 

CHAPTER   I. 

The  Beginning  of  Spiritual  Blessing. 

Letters  from  Messrs.  Joseph  Clarke  and  Stephen  White. — ^And 
from  Messrs.  Harvey  and  Hoste. — Accountsof  Mr.  Richards. 
— Turning  to  God  from  idols. — Witnessing  for  Jesus. — A 
Congo  baptism. — Recent  visits  to  Banza  Manteka  described 
by  Mr.  Whytock  and  Mrs.  McKittrick       .    pp.  413-426. 

CHAPTER   IL 

A  Chat  with  Mr.  Richards,  of  Banza  Manteka. 

The  missionary's  main  work.  —  Seeking  Jirst  conversion. — 
Evidences  of  the  new  birth. — Must  not  aim  at  Euro- 
peanizing  Africans. — The  clothes  question. — Men  are  the 
same,  though  skins  differ. — "  White  people  actually  love 
each  other  !  " — Barnabas  and  Lydia. — Church  government. 
— Native  preachers. — Native  view  of  flogging. — How  to 
discipline  the  unruly. — Native  quickness  in  learning. 

pp.  429-442. 


CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER    III. 

Progress  under  the  A.IJ.M.U.,  1885-90. 

Brief  Summar>'— The  Henry  Reed  at  work— Messrs.  Pettersen 
and  Eddie  at  Wangata— Dr.  Sims'  return  and  visit  to  Ame- 
rica.— .\sbury  Park  Conference.—  Speeches  by  Dr.  Gordon 
and  Dr.  Crane.— Fresh  Explorers  in  Africa. — Iron  church 
sent  out  from  Hoston  to  Banza  Manteka. — American  ladies 
join  the  Mission. —The  natives  on  the  upper  river. — Mr. 
Hoste's  itinerations  and  plans  for  extension  pp.  445-459. 

CHAPTER    IV. 

Our  New  Congo-B.alolo  Mission. 

The  Missionary  Conference  of  18S8. — Progress  and  policy  of 
the  A.B.M.U. — The  need  of  the  "regions  beyond." — 
Reasons  for  an  English  auxiliary. — Return  of  Mr.  John 
McKittrick. — .Sketch  of  the  Balolo  people. — Social  and 
religious  condition. — The  New  Congo- Balolo  Mission 
founded.  —  Harmonious  and  auxiliaiy,  yet  distinct  from  the 
A.B.M.U. — The  first  pioneer  party. — Bompole's  farewell 
and  letter. — Financial  supplies,  sailing  of  the  missionary 
band,  and  progress  to  date.— The  basis  of  the  Mission. — 
The  Pioneer  steamer pp.  461-4S7. 

CHAPTER   V. 

The  Climate  of  the  Congo. 

Causes  of  mortality  among  Europeans. — Stanley's  testimony 
after  having  tested  it  for  six  years. — Draughts  and  chill  as 
causes  of  fever. — Hill  stations  7'.  low-lying  land. — Typical 
causes. — Tr)'  it  at  home. —  Malaria  is  a  second  cause. — 
Rationale  of  its  operation. — Drink  accountable  for  a  large 
proportion  of  the  deaths. — Alcohol  dangerous  in  the  tropics. 
— "  Follies  leading  to  self-destruction."— Good  health 
possible //.  489-518. 

Conclusion pp.  519-523. 

Appendix pp.  523-535. 


FULL-PAGE    ILLUSTRATIONS. 


Upper  Congo  Fisherman 

The  Christopher  Columbus  of  the  New 

The  Falls  of  Ntamo    .... 

A  Central  African  Queen  . 

A  King  and  his  Court  .... 

Leopold  II 

A  Central  African  Encampment 
A  iSI  AN  grove  Swamp       .... 
The  Victoria  Falls  of  the  Zambesi 
Shooting  an  Exhausted  Slave  . 
An  Arab  Slave-Raid     .... 
Natives  Drawing  Palm-wine 

The  Kroo  Coast 

A  Forest  Scene  in  the  Heart  of  Afric 
Pre-historic  Africa      .... 
Portrait  of  Henry  Craven 
Carriers  on  a  Journey 
Portrait  of  Adam  McCall. 
A  Kroo-Boy  Headman  .... 
Portrait  of  Rev.  Alfred  Tilly 
African  Wives  and  Mothers     . 
Portrait  of  Henry  Reed,  Esq.  . 
Portrait  of  Dr.  Sims  .... 
Natural  Bridges  of  Fallen  Timber 
"A  Supply  of  Meat  for  the  Carriers" 
Portrait  of  George  Lanceley  . 
Native  Execution  at  a  Funeral 

The  Hexrv  Reed 

"  Hippos" 

BoLOBO  Station  of  the  B.M.S.    . 
Portrait  of  Rev.  J.  N.  Murdock,  D.D. 
Portrait  of  Frederick  Stanley  Arnot 
Sowing  in  Tears  ;  Reaping  in  Joy     . 
Portrait  of  Mr.  Henry  Richards    . 
Group  of  Thirteen  Missionaries 


World 


to 


face 


34 

52 

61 

64 

76 

81 

90 

109 

114 

120,  121 

141 

148 

154 
168,  169 

174 
188 
202 
214 
241 
254 
p.  267 
308 
318 
325 
336 
354 
359 
368 

384 
390 
400 
412 
428 
444 


LIST  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS. 


Group  of  Eight  Missionaries 

Bom  POLK'S  Leitkr        .... 

Thk  Stkam-launch  Pioseer     . 

A  Tornado  in  thk  FoRKsr 

Dr.  Sims'  Station  at  Stani.ky  Pool 

Haklky  Collkge  and  Grounds,  London 


460 
480 
484 
488 
496 


SMALL    ILLUSTRATIONS. 


Peep  at  the  Nile 

BaNTUS   of    BlHE 

A  Slave  Girl  of  the  Soudan. 

An  African  \'illage  . 

A  Forest  Path    .... 

MoNBUiTO  Warriors 

Crossing  Flooded  Plains 

Nativk  Hkads      .... 

Catastrophe  on  the  Congo     . 

Dragging  Canoes  Overland    . 

In  the  Rapids     .... 

A  Congo  Caravan 

An  Upper  Congo  Home     . 

Interview  with  a  N.\tive  Chief 

Group  of  N. stives 

The  Inquisition  at  Goa  . 

Ivory  Porters     .... 

A  N.\tive  Village  of  Round  Huts 

N YAM- N YAM  Warriors 

One  of  the  Lesser  Tributaries  of  th 

PONTA   DA    LeNHA. 

Manyema  Heads  .... 
Native  Jewellery 
One  of  the  Natives  . 
Congo  Idols         .... 

Palm  Trees 

Portrait  of  Mr.  Charles  Petersen 
"Stones  and  Palm  Trees" 
Mouth  of  the  M'poso  River  . 
The  LiviNGSToxE  Steam-launch 
Portrait  of  Mr.  Stephen  White 
Portrait  of  Mary  Richards   . 
Bird's-eye  View  of  Stanley  Pool 
Portrait  of  Miss  Spearing 


e  Congo 


9 
«5 

17 
20 

27 
38 
43 
44 
47 
48 
49 
57 
69 
72 

79 

99, loo 

118 

128 

153 
158 
161 
164 
170 
184 
191 
198 
218 
223 

2  "^  7 

247 
274 
299 
312 
315 


LIST  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS. 


IONS 


A  Camp  Fire 

Portrait  of  Mr.  William  Appel    . 

In  Memoriam 

l.eopoldville,  stanley  pool    . 

A  Native  of  I  boko,  Upper  Congo  . 

Islet  in  Stanley  Pool 

"  Poultry,  Goats,  and  Native  Product) 

An  Upper  Congo  Woman  . 

Trading-canoe  on  the  Congo 

"Guided" 

Portrait  of  Mr.  Joseph  Clarke    . 
Portrait  of  Mr  J.  H.  Hoste  . 
Throwing  down  Nkisis     . 
Preparing  the  Mid-day  Meal 

Carrying 

A  Native  Preacher  .... 
Portraits  of  Mr.  Joseph  Clarke  and 
A  Medicine  Man        .... 
Portrait  of  Mr.  Charles  Harvey 
Curious  Native  Head-dress    . 
Portrait  of  Mr.  Banks    . 
African  Ant-Hills     .... 
One  of  the  Kyansi-speaking  People 

Bompole        

Balolo  Heads 

Portrait  of  Mr.  John  McKittrick 
Mrs.  McKittrick  and  Congo  Boys 

A  King's  Grave 

Scene  at  the  Funeral  of  Bompole's  Father 
The  Woody  Banks  of  the  Congo  . 
Kinchassa  Station     .... 


his  Boys 


333 
346 
353 

365 

375 
376 
379 
3^1 
399 
414 
418 
421 
422 
434 
439 
441 
447 
451 
453 
455 
456 

463 
466 
469 

472 

475 
481 

487 
501 
506 


MAPS. 


Diagram  Map  of  Central  Africa     ,        .        .        .      xx 
Political  Map  of  Central  Africa  as  Settled  by 

the  Berlin  Conference 85 

Map  of  the  Congo  Basin 89 

Map  of  the  Balolo  Region        .        .        .      tofacep.i,^-] 
Large  Map at  end. 


DIAGRAM   TO    SHEW 

THE  NEW  WORLD  OF  CE]STRAL  AFRICA 


i£. 


Scale  of  English  Miles 


^oo  4O0  bOo  aoo  ooo 


^c 


London,  Stanford's  Secf' Csui^ 


C.  A. 


'•  — JU— 


UI'PER  CONGO  FISHERMAN. 


SECTION    I. 

HOW  THE  NEW  WORLD  WAS  DISCOVERED,  EX- 
PLORED, AND  BROUGHT  WITHIN  THE  I'ALE  OF 
CIVILIZATION.  THE  CONDITION  OF  THE  NEW 
"WORLD,  ITS  HISTORV,  GOVERNMENT,  INHABITANTS, 
CLIMATE,  FERTILITY,  AND  EXTENT  ;  ITS  IMPORT- 
ANCE, ITS  RICHES,  ITS  GREAT  CURSES,  AND  ITS 
CLAIMS   ON    CHRISTENDOM. 


CHAPTER    I 

THE  NE  W  WORLD  OF  CENTRAL  AFRLCA. 

It  may  safely  be  said  that  the  great  discoveries  of 
Columbus  and  Americus  Vespuccius  in  the  sixteenth 
century  did  not  make  a  more  important  addition  to 
our  knowledge  of  the  habitable  globe  than  do  the 
Central  African  discoveries  of  the  latter  half  of  this 
nineteenth  century.  For,  though  its  coast-line  and 
certain  of  its  seaboard  countries  were  long  familiar, 
the  vast  interior  of  Africa  was  to  all  intents  and  pur- 
poses an  unknown  world  till  within  the  last  fifty  years, 
and  a  very  great  part  till  within  the  last  twelve. 
Through  the  journeys  of  Burton,  Speke  and  Grant, 
of  Livingstone  and  Stanley,  of  Cameron,  Schweinfurth, 
Baker,  of  Cappello  and  Ivens^  of  Wissmann  and  Pogge, 
of  Montiero,  Lacerda,  Scrpa  Pinto,  Arnot,  and  a  host 
of  other  explorers,  it  is  now  for  the  first  time  unveiled 
It  contains  one-fourth  of  the  entire  land  area  of  the 
globe  ;  so  it  is  a  new  world,  which,  as  regards  dimen- 
sions, equals  North  and  South  America  put  together, 
or  North  America  and  Europe  combined.  It  is  es- 
timated to  have  a  population  of  about  three  hundred 
or  three  hundred  and  fifty  millions,  more  than   one- 

5 


.IF/f/CA'S   UACES  NOT  EVANESCENT. 


fifth  of  the  entire  human  race  ;  and  that  population, 
for  the  most  part,  is  evidently  one  destined  to  endure, 
and  not — like  the  aborigines  of  the  North  American 
continent — to  pass  away  and  perish  before  the  ad- 
vance of  the  stronger  and  more  civilized  white  men. 

We  ought  to  knoio  more  about  such  a  continent  as 
this  !  We,  as  Christians,  have  duties  towards  Africa 
which  wc  shall  never  fulfil  unless  wc  acquaint  our- 
selves with  the  character  and  condition  of  the 
countless  nations,  kindreds,  and  tribes  inhabiting  that 
continent.  For  eighteen  centuries  since  the  gospel 
came  into  the  world,  most  of  them  have  been  allowed 
to  sit  in  darkness  and  in  the  shadow  of  death,  without 
any  message  of  eternal  life.  Sad  and  sorrowful  fact ! 
Its  cause  is  to  be  sought  partly  in  the  early  corrup- 
tion, and  subsequent  destruction  b\'  the  Saracenic 
conquests,  of  the  primitive  Church  of  North  Africa, 
exterminating  the  faith  of  Christ  in  those  regions 
from  which  the  rest  of  the  continent  might  otherwise 
have  been  evangelized  ;  and  parti}'  in  the  universal 
and  long-continued  apostasy  of  the  Church  of  the 
Middle  Ages,  destroN'ing  as  it  did  to  a  large  extent 
her  missionar\'  zeal. 

That  during  the  last  four  centuries  of  rapid  and 
universal  exploration  of  the  surface  of  our  globe  so 
large  a  portion  of  it  as  Central  Africa  should  have 
remained  till  the.se  our  days  a  terra  incognita,  is  per- 
haps an  indication  of  a  merciful  Providence.  Until 
Christianity  had  .so  far  influenced  the  minds  and  con- 
sciences of  the  nations  of  the  earth  as  to  lead  them  to 


WJ7V  SO  LONG  HIDDEN. 


see  the  sin  of  slavery  and  abolish  it,  it  was  better  for 
the  poor  African  to  lie  hidden  from  the  world,  than 
that  his  home  should  become  the  haunt  of  the  slave- 
hunter.  The  west  coast  was  half  depopulated  by 
this  curse  ;  and  one  cannot  but  rejoice  that  Stanley's 
great  journe}-  was  not  made  two  hundred  years  ago  ! 
Had  it  been  so,  slave-raiding  would  have  spread  all 
up  the  Congo,  and  desolated  the  heart  of  Africa.  The 
present  terrible  sufferings  of  the  natives  in  the  eastern 
half  of  Equatorial  Africa  under  the  Arab  slave-trade 
show  what  might  have  been  on  the  other  side,  had 
the  Dark  Continent  been  unveiled  too  soon  !  Even 
now  the  conscience  of  the  civilized  nations  of  Europe 
and  America  is  not  sufficiently  enlightened  to  lead 
them  to  refrain  from  ruining  these  untaught  races  by 
rum.  The  greed  of  gain  is  greater  than  the  sense 
of  responsibility  still,  and  the  deadly  drink  traffic  is 
suffered  to  destroy  and  degrade  the  nati\-e  races. 
Merchants,  alas  !  are  more  enterprising  in  taking  them 
liquors  which  have  well  been  called  "  distilled  dam- 
nation "  than  Christians  are  as  yet  in  giving  them 
the  gospel. 

We  cannot  be  held  responsible  for  the  negligence 
of  other  ages,  or  blamed  for  not  sending  the  gospel  to 
tribes  and  kindreds  of  whose  very  existence  we  were 
ignorant.  But  now  that  the  tremendous  and  thrilling 
facts  of  the  case  are  made  known  to  us  ;  now  that  by 
the  aid  of  the  narratives  of  explorers,  missionaries, 
travellers,  officers,  and  traders  we  can  traverse  region 
after  region,  and  make  acquaintance  with  nation  after 
nation  of  this   new  world  ;  now  that  we  can  realize 


8  AFRICA    01. l>   A.\D  NEW. 

their  deep,  deep  need  of  the  softeninj^  and  purifyin;^ 
gospel  of  the  grace  of  God  ;  noio  the  case  is  very  dif- 
ferent. Now  we  arc  responsible  ;  now  we  sliall  deserve 
blame  in  the  day  of  Christ  if  we  feed  not  these  hun- 
gry souls  and  rescue  not  these  perishing  nations. 

W'c  fully  believe  that  no  part  of  the  world  has  so 
strong  a  claim  on  the  energies  of  the  Christian  Church 
at  this  time  as  Central  Africa;  and  that  every  man, 
woman,  and  child  who  loves  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  longs  in  proof  of  it  to  keep  His  commandments, 
ought  to  take  some  part  or  other  in  the  great  task 
of  giving  it  the  gospel. 

By  "  the  new  world  of  Central  Africa  "  we  do  not 
designate  by  any  means  the  whole  of  the  great  con- 
tinent, most  of  which  is  by  no  means  new,  even  in 
the  sense  of  being  newly  made  known.  Our  know- 
ledge of  Egypt  goes  back  four  thousand  years,  to  the 
days  of  Abraham  ;  our  knowledge  of  Carthage  and  of 
North  Africa  goes  back  to  the  days  of  Hannibal  and 
the  Punic  wars  ,  our  knowledge  of  the  West  Coast — 
including  the  mouth  of  the  Congo — and  of  the  Cape 
dates  from  the  Portuguese  discoveries  of  the  fifteenth 
century.  None  of  these  parts  can  therefore  be  called 
new.  The  region  that  does  deserve  that  name  is  the 
central  portion  of  Africa,  lying  between  the  Soudan 
and  the  Zambesi.  All  this  is  new — so  new  that  the 
earliest  effective  explorations  of  it  only  go  back  to 
the  middle  of  this  century. 

Geographically  we  may  describe  this  new  world 
as  extending  right  across  the  continent  and  through 
twenty-five  degrees  of  latitude — from  the  Soudan  and 


"  EGYPT   GOES   BACK   4,O0O  YEARS, 

the  watershed  between  the  Nile  and  the  Congo,  in 
the  north,  to  the  Zambesi  River  in  the  south,  and 
from  the  Indian  Ocean  to  the  Atlantic.  This  is 
the  region  we  intend  by  "  Central  Africa  "  ;  and  the 
central  portion  of  this  Central  Africa  is  the  new 
Congo  Free  State,  of  which  we  shall  have  much 
to  say  hereafter.  Besides  it  however  Central  Africa 
contains  many  distinct  regions.  Beginning  in  the 
north-east,  there  is,  for  instance,  the  beautiful  Masai 
country — the  Switzerland  of  Africa — with  its  grand, 
snow-capped  mountains  iS,ooo  feet  high,  a  country 
running  back  from  the  Indian  Ocean  to  the  great 
Victoria  Lake,  and  now  included  in  the  sphere  of 
English  influence  :  there  is  the  immense  region  marked 


COUNTRIES  OF   THE  NEW   WORLD. 


o\\  modern  maps  as  "the  sphere  of  German  influ- 
ence" extending  from  the  shallow  territories  of  the 
Sultan  of  Zanzibar  to  the  western  shores  of  the  great 
Tanganyika.  There  is  the  southern  Nyassa  district, 
which  has  already  made  so  much  progress  on  the 
road  to  civilization,  and  which  is  now  the  theatre  of 
so  severe  a  struggle  between  its  British  benefactors 
and  the  Arab  slave-traders,  who  are  seeking  its  ruin. 
There  is  also  the  large  lacustrine  district  inclosed  by 
lakes  Bangweolo  and  Moero  on  the  east  and  the  long 
chain  of  lakes  on  the  Lualaba  on  the  west, — includ- 
ing Kasongoand  M'sidi's  kingdom  in  the  Garangange 
country.  Then  there  is  the  great  Lunda  country, 
and  the  extensive  Barotse  valley,  and  the  Bashilange 
district  ;  the  immense  territory  added  to  the  Portu- 
guese colony  of  Angola  by  the  Berlin  Conference ; 
and  the  Ogowe  country  assigned  to  France.  Lastly 
there  are  the  northern  kingdoms  of  the  Nyam-Nyam 
and  the  Monbutto,  explored  by  Schwcinfurth,  and 
traversed  by  the  many  streams  which  form  the  head 
waters  of  the  great  northern  tributary  of  the  Congo, 
the  Mobangi-Welle  ;  and,  lastly,  the  kingdoms  of 
Unyoro  and  Uganda,  the  dwarf-haunted  forests,  and 
the  new  countries  lately  traversed  by  Stanley. 

No  region  on  earth  possesses  a  more  magnificent 
system  of  inland  lakes  and  rivers  than  does  the  new 
world  of  Central  Africa,  once  thought  to  be  desolate. 
This  seems  to  be  a  compensation  for  the  great  dis- 
advantage which  weighs  upon  the  African  continent 
in  her  very  short  coast-line.  History  proves  that 
continents  progress  in  civilization  in  a  direct  ratio  to 


DISADVANTAGE   OF  SHORT  COAST-LINE. 


the  length  of  their  coast-Hnes  as  compared  with  their 
superficial  areas.  Europe,  with  its  area  of  only  three 
and  a  half  millions  of  square  miles,  has  a  coast-line 
of  seventeen  thousand  miles  ;  while  Africa,  with 
fully  eight  times  the  superficial  area,  has  a  coast-line 
of  only  fourteen  thousand  miles  in  length.  Were  it 
relatively  of  the  same  length  as  that  of  Europe,  it 
would  be  a  hundred  and  thirty-six  thousand  miles, 
instead  of  fourteen  thousand.  Hence  its  backward 
condition,  and  its  late  awakening  to  the  civilized  life 
of  the  human  race.  Its  inland  water  system  however 
is  some  compensation  for  this  serious  disadvantage. 
Besides  the  Nile  and  the  Niger  systems  in  North 
and  West  Africa,  and  the  Zambesi  system  in  the 
south,  Central  Africa  has  no  less  than  eighty  thousand 
square  miles  of  lake  water,  and  in  the  Congo  system 
the  second  largest  river  and  river  basin  in  the  world. 

The  Congo  and  its  tributaries  form  a  longer  line 
of  navigable  water  than  iJie  iv/io/e  coast-line  of  Europe. 
If  we  start  from  the  North  Cape  and  the  land  of  the 
midnight  sun,  sail  in  and  out  of  the  fiords  of  Norway, 
coast  round  the  Skagerack  and  the  Cattegat,  all  up 
the  Baltic,  round  the  Gulf  of  Bothnia,  and  follow 
every  inlet  of  the  Gulf  of  Finland  ;  if  we  then  sail  on 
along  the  North  German  coast  and  all  round  Den- 
mark, circumnavigate  our  own  little  British  Isles  and 
cross  back  to  Hamburg,  then  coast  along  the  shores 
of  Holland,  Belgium,  France,  sail  round  the  Bay  of 
Biscay,  and  by  the  shores  of  Portugal  and  Spain  to 
Marseilles,  along  the  beautiful  Riviera  and  the  coast  of 
Italy,  visit  every  creek  and   inlet  of  the  Adriatic,  and 


12  iSfiOO  MII./'S   OF  KiniR   HANK. 

of  Greece  and  its  glorious  Archipelago,  pass  through 
the  Dardanelles  and  the  Sea  of  Marmora  and  the 
fabulously  beautiful  l^osphorus,  run  up  the  Black  Sea 
by  the  coasts  of  Roumania  and  Bulgaria,  and  then 
skirt  the  southern  shores  of  Russia,  of  the  Crima^a, 
and  of  the  Caucasus  —  in  all  this  long  voyage  we 
should  not  sail  past  a  coast  as  long  extended  as  that 
presented  by  the  river  banks  and  lake  shores  of  the 
navigable  water-way  of  the  Congo. 

luirope  has  a  coast- line  of  about  seventeen  thou- 
sand miles,  and  even  with  the  British  Isles  of  consi- 
derably under  twenty  thousand.  The  Congo  and  its 
tributaries  have  been  already  explored  to  a  length 
of  eleven  thousand  miles,  giving  Hventy-two  thousand 
miles  of  river  bank  peopled  ivitli  native  villages.  All 
these  can  be  easily  reached  by  the  noble  water-way 
which  traverses  in  every  direction  the  Congo  Free 
State. 

The  Chambesi,  a  small  stream  rising  in  the  moun- 
tains to  the  west  of  Lake  Nyassa  and  flowing  through 
the  lakes  Bangweolo  and  Moero,  and  called  in  that 
part  of  its  course  the  Luapula,  used  to  be  considered 
the  head  waters  of  the  Congo.  But  the  recent  ex- 
plorations of  the  watershed  by  Cappello  and  Ivens 
show  that  another  river,  the  Lualaba,  rising  13' 
to  the  south,  in  the  Katanga  country,  is  really  the 
main  source  of  Livingstone's  mighty  river.  This 
stream — after  forming  a  great  number  of  lakes — joins 
the  Chambesi  branch  at  Lake  Lanji  (6'  south),  and 
the  united  stream  flows  on  past  Nyangwe  with  a 
north-westerly  course  to  Stanley  Falls.     There  turn- 


THE   ''MIGHTY''    CONGO.  13 

ing  westward  it  reaches  2°  north  of  the  equator, 
whence  it  takes  its  final  south-western  bend  to 
Stanley  Pool,  the  gorge  of  the  Livingstone  Cataracts, 
the  lower  river,  and  the  ocean.  The  course  of  the 
main  stream  alone  measures  between  three  and  four 
thousand  miles,  making  it  one  of  the  greatest  rivers 
in  the  world,  only  the  Nile  and  the  Amazon  be- 
ing longer.  Many  of  its  very  numerous  tributaries 
are  themselves  magnificent  rivers,  notably  the  Mo- 
bangi  from  the  north-east,  descending  from  the  Nile 
watershed,  and  running  a  western  and  south-western 
course,  almost  parallel  with  that  of  the  main  stream, 
which  it  joins  just  below  the  equator  ;  and  the  Kasai, 
coming  up  from  the  south,  from  the  watershed  of  the 
Zambesi,  and  flowing  north  and  north-west,  receiving 
in  its  turn  four  very  important  tributaries,  the  Lulua, 
the  Sankuru,  the  Ikata,  and  the  Kwango.  Even  the 
minor  tributaries  of  the  Congo,  such  as  the  Lomami, 
the  Lulonga,  the  Ikelemba,  and  the  Juapa,  on  the 
south,  and  the  Aruwimi,  the  Loika,  the  Bunga,  and 
the  Alima,  on  the  north,  are  very  considerable  streams. 

The  Congo  Free  State,  though  not  coterminous 
with  the  immense  geographical  basin  of  the  Congo 
River,  comprises  the  greater  part  of  it.  The  State 
has  1,508,000  square  miles  of  territory.  England  has 
48,000  ;  so  it  would  take  more  than  thirty  Englands 
'to  make  up  the  territory  of  this  great  Central  African 
government,  which  is  considerably  larger  than  all 
India,  including  the  native  states. 

Its  population  cannot  be  determined  with  any 
degree  of  accuracy,  as   the  estimates  of  travellers,  as 


14  THE   TRUE  HOME   OF  THE  NEGRO. 


regards  the  density  to  the  square  mile,  vary  greatly 
according  to  the  localities  they  have  traversed.  But 
it  may  probably  be  i)laccd  somewhere  between  forty 
and  fifty  millions.  The  people  live  mostly  in  inde- 
pendent groups,  imdcr  the  command  of  a  chief  or 
"  king,"  whose  dominions  comprise,  it  may  be  only  a 
few  villages  or  towns,  or  it  may  be  a  considerable  ex- 
tent of  country.  In  those  parts  where  the  natives  have 
come  into  frequent  contact  with  the  white  men,  they 
are  docile  and  fairly  amiable,  but  in  some  of  the  more 
remote  regions  they  are  savage  and  warlike.  Supersti- 
tion renders  them  timid,  and  fear  makes  them  at  times 
fierce  and  almost  ferocious,  but  a  brief  acquaintance 
with  kindly  disposed  I'Luropeans  speedily  tames  them- 
The  popular  notion  that  all  Africans  arc  negroes  is 
a  delusion.^  Most  Africans  are,  it  is  true,  dark  in 
colour,  but  the  greater  part  are  not  negroes.  Trom 
Cape  Colony  in  the  south   right    up  through  the  con- 

'  The  proper  home  of  the  Negro  lies  north  of  this  great  region.  It  is 
tlie  immense  .Soudan — a  tract  of  country  4,000  miles  broad  by  about 
500  deep,  extending  from  the  basin  of  the  Congo  River  on  the  south  to 
the  .Sahara  on  the  north,  and  from  Egypt  in  the  east  to  .Senegambia 
in  the  west.  This  immense  region  is  now  the  least  known  portion  of 
the  African  continent  ;  Mungo  Park  penetrated  its  western  section  in 
the  beginning  of  the  century,  Denliam  and  Clapperton  twenty  years 
later;  and  in  1S50  Barth  entered  it  from  Tripoli  on  the  north,  ex- 
plored many  hundred  miles  of  the  Niger  region,  resided  seven  months 
at  Timbuctoo,  and  exhibited  wonderful  German  method  and  perse- 
verance in  recording  his  obsei-vations  extending  over  12,000  miles  of 
untrodden  country.  More  recently  the  south-eastern  section  of  the 
Soudan  has  been  partially  explored  by  Gordon,  Schweinfurth,  and 
others  ;  but  its  entire  length  and  breadth  are  still  to  a  large  extent  a 
terra  incoptita,  and  it  is  of  course  totally  unevangelized. 

The  Soudan  consists  of  three  principal  parts  :  the   region  round  the 


THE  BANTU  FAMILY. 


IS 


, —  Hi^^ 


r.ANTUS   OF    IIIHK,    SOUTH-CENTRAL   AFRICA. 

tinent  northwards  to  eight  degrees  above  the  equator, 
all  the  immense  variety  of  races  inhabiting  Central 
Africa  belong  to  the  great  Bantu  family,  and  are  en- 
tirely distinct  from  negroes. 

A  recent  traveller  describing  these  races  says  : 
"  The  Bantu  is  a  fine,  tall,  upright  man,  with  deli- 
cately small  hands  and  well-shaped   feet,  a  fine  face, 
high,  thin  nose,  beard,  and  moustache. 


upper  waters  of  the  Xile  in  the  east,  that  lying  around  Lake  Chad  in 
the  centre,  and  the  magnificent  valley  of  the  lordly  Niger  in  the  west. 
This  last  is  crossed  by  the  long  line  of  the  Kong  Mountains,  the  country 
between  which  and  the  coast  is  familiarly  known,  including  Sierra 
Leone,  Liberia,  Cape  Palmas,  Ashanti,  Dahomey,  Yoruba,  and  the 
numerous  English,  French,  Spanish,  Portuguese,  and  German  colonies. 
These  countries  form  merely  a  fringe  of  Negroland,  but  northward 
from  the  Kong  Mountains,  which  run  parallel  with  the  coast  of  the  Gulf 
of  Guinea  and  at  no  great  distance  from  it,  very  little  is  known  of  the 
country.  From  Senegal  right  across  the  continent  to  the  highlands  of 
Abyssinia,  the  multitudinous  tribes  and  nations  of  Xegroland  are  still 
unvisited  and  untaught.  They  live  and  die  uimoticed  and  unknown. 
Darkness  covers  this  enormous  world,  and  gross  darkness  its  peoples. 

Futa  Jallon,   Bambarra,   Messina,    Songhay,   and    Gando,   each  an 
extensive  country  with  towns,  many  of  which  contain   from  jo,ooo  to 


1 6  THE  HANTU  RACES. 


"The  farther  you  go  into  the  interior  the  finer  the 
type  becomes  ;  and  two  points  about  them  contrast 
very  favourably  with  most  of  the  coast  races  ;  namely, 
their  lighter  colour,  generally  a  warm  chocolate,  and 
their  freedom  from  that  offensive  smell  which  is  sup- 
posed wrongly  to  characterize  most  of  the  Africans. 
Many  other  details  show  the  comparatively  high 
status  of  the  Upper  Congo  races,  with  their  small 
hands  and  feet,  their  well-shaped  legs,  with  full 
calves,  and  their  abundant  heads  of  hair. 

"  Some  of  the  men  are  perfect  Greek  statues,  as 
regards  the  splendid  development  and  poise  of  figure. 
They  have  pleasing  faces,  because  of  the  good- 
humour  which  enlivens  their  features. 

"Another  remarkable  point  about  them  is  their 
comparatively  great  development  of  hair,  on  the  head 
especially,  but  at  an  early  age  also  all  over  the  body. 


50,000  people,  have  together  from  fourteen  to  sixteen  millions  of  in- 
habitants, and  are  destitute  of  any  preacher  of  the  gospel.  The  empire 
of  Ciando,  which  extends  along  the  Niger  in  its  bend  from  the  north 
to  its  junction  with  the  Binue,  is  occupied  by  a  people  distinguished 
for  their  intelligence  and  friendliness,  fairly  industrious  and  civilized, 
and  who  speak  a  rich  and  harmonious  language,  but  who  are  as  yet 
unvisited  by  any  missionai^. 

The  CKNTRAI,  .Soudan,  whicli  reaches  from  the  conduence  of  the 
Niger  and  Binue  across  to  Darfur,  consists  of  a  group  of  great  negro 
states  peopled  by  the  Fulah  and  Ilausa  tribes.  It  comprises  the 
empire  of  Sokoto,  about  as  large  as  the  British  Islands,  the  province  of 
Adamawa  beyond  the  Binue,  that  of  Bornu,  south  and  west  of  Lake 
Chad,  with  a  population  of  five  or  six  millions,  a  civilized  negro  state 
whose  king  has  an  army  of  20,000  well  mounted  and  well  armed 
cavalry.  The  kingdom  of  Baghirmi,  traversed  by  the  river  Shari,  which 
falls  into  Lake  Chad,  has  one  and  a  half  millions  ;  and  the  kingdom 
of  W'adai  is  more  than  three  times  the   size  of  England,  with   a  war- 


NEGRO   SLAVE   GIRL   BROUGHT   FROM   THE  SOUDAX. 

like  population,  and  a  sultan  who  rules  with  merciless  severity  over  his 
sul)jects.  All  these  five  countries  of  the  central  Soudan  are  totally 
unevangclized. 

Then  in  the  eastern  Soudan  we  have  the  great  kingdom  of  Darfur, 
and  other  populous  provinces,  which  are  of  a  less  civilized  character, 
while  the  region  termed  the  Egyptian  Soudan  is  one  of  the  miserable 
spheres  of  the  Arab  slave-trade.  This  is  fast  decimating  its  population, 
which  is  passing  away,  alas  !  without  liaving  ever  heard  the  gospel. 
C.  A.  "  2 


i8  BANTr  DRESS,    TRADE,    AA'D   CrRRENCY, 


Although  arrived  at  maturity,  their  persons  are  quite 
hairless;  for,  like  most  negroes,  they  dislike  all  growth 
of  hair  on  the  body,  and  pluck  out  every  hair  that 
makes  its  appearance,  scarcely  liking  the  beard  to 
grow.  However,  en  revanche,  the  hair  of  the  head  is 
much  encouraged,  and  really  attains  an  astonisiiing 
length  ;  and  though  crisp  and  curly,  is  tortured  and 
twisted  by  its  possessors  into  all  sorts  of  fantastic 
coiffures." 

The  Bantu  is  a  born  trader,  and  therein  lies  the 
great  hope  of  civilizing  Central  Africa.  When 
America  was  first  explored,  the  proud-willed,  intrac- 
table Central  North  American  Indian  could  not  be 
brought  into  brotherhood  with  the  white  man.  This 
native  race  died  out  before  him  ;  it  would  not  work- 
either  under  him  or  with  him.  Among  the  Bantu,  on 
the  contrary,  the  commercial  instinct  is  so  powerful, 
that  the  people  are  anxious  for  intercourse  with  the 
richer  and  stronger  race,  as  soon  as  their  superstitious 
fears  can  be  allayed.  They  are  more  than  willing  to 
trade  and  procure  what  the  white  man  wants,  provided 
they  can  get  a  fair  equivalent. 

They  have  actually  created  among  themselves  a 
true  currency,  though  not  a  money  one — a  proof  of 
considerable  commercial  activity.  They  understand 
also  to  some  extent  the  division  of  labour  ;  one  village 
will  make  nets,  another  mats,  while  another  will  buy 
the  nets  and  addict  itself  to  fishing,  selling  the  fish 
caught,  and  carrying  on  the  manufacture  of  palm 
wine,  and  so  on. 

The  great  stimulus  to  commerce — lack  of  necessary 


CENTRAL   AFRICAN  MAN.  19 

things — exists  among  the  Bantus.  They  want  a 
greater  variety  of  food,  more  meat  especially,  and 
therefore  they  need  firearms  to  shoot  game,  even  if 
not  for  war.  They  need  clothes  to  shield  them  from 
the  cold  of  their  nights  and  the  heat  of  their  days. 
The}'  need  shoes  or  sandals,  at  any  rate,  for  their  long 
journeys,  and  a  thousand  other  things.  This  makes 
them  welcome  the  white  man  and  his  treasures  gladly, 
and  renders  them  willing  to  co-operate  with  him  in 
the  development  of  commerce. 

Of  Central  African  man  in  his  lowest  state,  as  he 
saw  him  in  the  Nyassa  district,  Drummond  writes  : 

"  Hidden  away  in  the  endless  forests,  like  birds' 
nests  in  a  wood,  in  terror  of  one  another,  and  of  their 
common  foe  the  slaver,  are  small  native  villages  ;  and 
here,  in  his  virgin  simplicity,  dwells  primeval  man, 
without  clothes,  without  civilization,  without  learning, 
without  religion,  the  genuine  child  of  nature,  thought- 
less, careless,  and  contented.  This  man  is  apparently 
quite  happy;  he  has  practically  no  wants.  One  stick, 
pointed,  makes  him  a  spear  ;  two  sticks  rubbed  toge- 
ther make  him  a  fire  ;  fifty  sticks  tied  together  make 
him  a  house.  The  bark  he  peels  from  them  makes 
his  clothes,  the  fruits  which  hang  on  them  make  his 
food.  It  is  perfectly  astounding,  when  one  thinks  of 
it,  what  nature  can  do  for  the  animal  man,  to  see  with 
what  small  capital,  after  all,  a  human  being  can  get 
through  the  world. 

"  I  once  saw  an  African  buried.  According  to  the 
custom  of  his  tribe,  his  entire  earthly  possessions — 
and  he  was  an  average  commoner — were  buried  w  ith 


20 


A  FKICAN   VJI.  L  A  GES. 


him.  Into  the  grave,  after  the  body,  was  lowered  the 
dead  man's  pipe,  then  a  rough  knife,  then  a  mud  bowl, 
and,  last,  his  bow  and  arrows,  the  bowstring  cut 
through  the  middle,  a  touching  symbol  that  its  work 
was  done.  This  was  all.  Four  items,  as  an  auc- 
tioneer would  say,  were  the  whole  belongings  for  half 
a  century  of  this  human  being.  No  man  knows  what 
a  man  is,  till  he  has  seen  what  a  man  can  be  without, 
and  be  withal  a  man." 

Central  African  villages  differ  widely,  of  course,  in 
different  parts  of  the  continent,  as  a  village  in  Nor- 
way would  differ  from  one  in  the  Netherlands,  and 
that  again  from  one  in  Spain  or  Italy.  Here  is  a 
graphic  description  of  a  village  in  Uhombo  and  its 
people,  from  the  pen  of  Stanley,  who,  as  a  traveller 
and  author,  retains  the  power  of  the  "correspondent" 


DESCRIPTION  OF   UIIOMBO. 


to  seize  the  points  of  interest  in  a  scene.  This  ham- 
let must  have  been  one  of  the  most  degraded  of  its 
class  however.  The  picture  is  a  sad  and  painful  one, 
but  it  is  evidently  the  pen  and  ink  photograph  of 

A  Central  African  Village. 

"  A  village  in  Uhombo  consists  of  a  number  of 
low,  conical  huts,  ranged  round  a  circular  common,  in 
the  centre  of  which  arc  three  or  four  fig  trees,  kept 
for  the  double  purpose  of  supplying  shade  to  the 
community  and  bark-cloth  to  the  chief  The  door- 
ways to  the  huts  are  very  low,  scarcely  thirty  inches 
high.  The  common,  fenced  round  by  the  grass  huts, 
shows  plainly  the  ochreous  colour  of  the  soil,  and  it  is 
so  well  trodden,  that  not  a  grass  blade  thrives  upon  it. 

"  On  presenting  myself  on  the  common,  I  attracted 
out  of  doors  the  owners  and  ordinary  inhabitants  of 
each  hut,  until  I  found  myself  the  centre  of  quite  a 
promiscuous  population  of  naked  men,  women,  chil- 
dren, and  infants.  Though  I  had  appeared  here  for 
the  purpose  of  studying  the  people  of  Uhombo,  and 
making  a  treaty  of  friendship  with  the  chief,  the  vil- 
lagers seemed  to  think  I  had  come  merely  to  make  a 
free  exhibition  of  myself  as  some  natural  monstrosity  ! 
I  saw  before  me  over  a  hundred  beings  of  the  most 
degraded,  unpresentable  type  it  is  possible  to  con- 
ceive ;  and,  though  I  knew  c^uite  well  that,  some  thou- 
sands of  years  ago,  the  beginning  of  this  wretched 
humanity  and  myself  were  one  and  the  same,  a  sneak- 
ing disinclination  to  believe  it  possessed  me  strongl}-, 
and  I  would  even  now  willingly  subscribe  some  small 


22  OUR  RUDELY  SHAPED  BROTHERS  AND  SISTERS. 

aimjunt  (jf  silver  inoiic)'  lor  him  who  could  but  assist 
to  controvert  the  discreditable  fact. 

"But  common  sense  tells  mc  not  to  take  into 
undue  consideration  their  scjualor,  their  ugliness,  or 
nakedness,  but  to  ^auge  their  true  position  among 
the  human  race  by  taking  a  view  of  the  cultivated 
fields  and  gardens  of  L'hombo  ;  and  I  am  compelled 
to  admit  that  these  debased  specimens  of  liumanity 
only  plant  and  sow  such  vegetables  and  grain  as  I 
myself  should  cultivate,  were  I  compelled  to  provide 
for  my  own  sustenance.  I  see  too  that  their  huts, 
though  of  grass,  arc  almost  as  well  made  as  the 
materials  will  permit,  and  indeed  I  have  often  slept  in 
worse.  Speak  with  them  in  their  own  dialect  of  the  law 
of  niciun  and  iuiu/i,  and  it  will  soon  appear  that  they 
are  intelligent  enough  upon  that  point.  Moreover  the 
muscles,  tissues,  and  fibres  of  their  bodies,  and  all  the 
organs  of  sight,  hearing,  smell,  or  motion,  are  as  well 
developed  as  in  us.  Onl}'  in  taste  and  judgment  based 
upon  larger  experience,  in  the  power  of  expression,  in 
morals  and  intellectual  culture,  are  we  superior. 

"  I  stri\-c  therefore  to  interest  myself  in  m}'  gross 
and  rudely  shaped  brothers  and  sisters.  Almost 
bursting  into  a  laugh  at  the  absurdit}-,  I  turn  towards 
an  individual  whose  age  marks  him  out  as  one  to 
whom  respect  is  due,  and  say  to  him,  after  the  com- 
mon manner  of  greeting : 

"'My  brother,  sit  you  down  by  me  on  this  m.at. 
and  let  us  be  friendly  and  sociable '  ;  and  as  I  sa}'  it. 
I  thrust  into  his  wide  open  hand  twent}^  cowries,  the- 
currency  (;f  the  land.     One  look   at   his  hand   as  he 


UNATTRACTIVE!    BUT  HUMAN. 


extended  it  made  me  think  I  could  carve  a  better 
looking  hand  out  of  a  piece  of  rhinoceros  hide. 

"While  speaking  I  look  at  his  face,  which  is  like  an 
ugly  and  extravagant  mask,  clumsily  manufactured 
from  some  strange,  dark-brown,  coarse  material.  The 
lips  proved  the  thickness  of  skin  with  which  nature 
had  endowed  him,  and  by  the  obstinacy  with  which 
they  refused  to  meet  each  other  the  form  of  the  mouth 
was  but  ill  defined,  though  capacious,  and  garnished 
with  its  full  complement  of  well  preserved  teeth.  His 
nose  was  so  flat  that  I  inquired,  in  a  perfectly  innocent 
manner,  as  to  the  reason  for  such  a  feature. 

" '  Ah  ! '  said  he,  with  a  sly  laugh,  '  it  is  the  fault  of 
my  mother,  who,  when  I  was  young,  bound  me  too 
tightly  to  her  back.' 

"His  hair  had  been  compelled  to  follow  the  capri- 
cious fashion  of  his  country,  and  was  therefore  worked 
up  into  furrows  and  ridges  and  central  cones,  bearing 
a  curious  resemblance  to  the  formation  of  the  land 
around  Uhombo.  I  wonder  if  the  art  grew  by  per- 
ceiving nature's  fashion  and  mould  of  his  country  ? 

"  Descending  from  the  face,  which,  crude,  large- 
featured,  rough-hewn  as  it  was,  bore  witness  to  the 
possession  of  much  sly  humour  and  a  kindly  disposi- 
tion, my  eyes  fastened  on  his  naked  body.  Through 
the  ochreous  daubs  I  detected  strange  freaks  of 
pricking  on  it,  circles  and  squares  and  crosses,  and 
traced  with  wonder  the  many  hard  lines  and  puckers 
created  by  age,  weather,  ill  usage,  and  rude  keeping. 

"  His  feet  were  monstrous  abortions,  with  soles  as 
hard  as  hoofs,  and  his  legs,  a,s  high  up  as  the   knees, 


24  '*  EHAA,"   "IVAA-A-.-tJVTC/l" 

were  plastered  with  successive  strata  of  dirt  ;  his  loin- 
cover  or  the  queer  'girding  tackle'  need  not  be 
described.  They  were  absolutely  appalling  to  good 
taste,  and  the  most  ragged  British  beggar  or  Nea- 
politan lazzaronc  is  sumptuously,  nay,  regally  clothed, 
in  comparison  to  this  *  king '  in  Uhombo. 

"  If  the  old  chief  appeared  so  unprepossessing,  how 
can  I  paint  without  offence  my  humbler  brothers  and 
sisters  who  stood  around  us  ?  As  I  looked  at  the 
array  of  faces,  I  could  only  comment  to  myself,  ugly 
— uglier — ugliest.  As  I  looked  at  their  nude  and  filthy 
bodies,  and  the  general  indecency  of  their  nakedness, 
I  ejaculated  '  Fearful  ! '  as  the  sum  total  of  what  I 
might  with  propriety  say,  and  what  indeed  is  suffi- 
ciently descriptive. 

"And  what  shall  I  say  of  the  hideous  and  queer 
appendages  that  they  wore  about  their  waists  ;  the 
rags  of  monkey  skin,  and  bits  of  gorilla  bone,  goat 
horn,  shells,  strange  tags  to  stranger  tackle  ;  and  of 
the  things  around  their  necks,  brain  of  mice,  skin  of 
viper,  'adder's  fork,  and  blindworm's  sting'?  And 
how  strangely  they  smell,  all  these  queer,  man-like 
creatures  who  stand  regarding  me  !  Not  silently:  on 
the  contrar}',  there  is  a  loud  interchange  of  comments 
upon  the  white  man's  appearance,  a  manifestation  of 
broad  interest  to  know  whence  I  came,  whither  I  am 
going,  and  what  is  my  business.  And  no  sooner  arc 
the  questions  asked  than  they  are  replied  to  by  such 
as  pretend  to  know.  The  replies  were  followed  by 
long-drawn  ejaculations  of  '  Wa-a-a-antu  !'  ('Men!') 
'  Eha-a,  and  these  arc  men  ! ' 


"  AND    THESE  ARE  MEN! "  25 

"  Now  imagine  this  !  While  we  whites  arc  loftily 
disputing  among  ourselves  as  to  whether  the  beings 
before  us  are  human,  here  were  these  creatures 
actually  expressing  strong  doubts  as  to  whether  we 
whites  are  men  ! 

"A  dead  silence  prevailed  for  a  short  time,  during 
which  all  the  females  dropped  their  lower  jaws  far 
down,  and  then  cried  out  again,  *  Wa-a-a-a-a-antu  ! ' 
('  Men  !')  The  lower  jaws  indeed  dropped  so  low  that, 
when,  in  a  posture  of  reflection,  they  put  their  hands 
up  to  their  chins,  it  really  looked  as  if  they  had  done 
so  to  lift  the  jaws  up  to  the  proper  place,  and  to  sus- 
tain them  there.  And  in  that  position  they  pondered 
upon  the  fact  that  there  were  men  '  white  all  over ' 
in  this  queer,  queer  world  ! 

"  The  open  mouths  gave  one  a  chance  to  note  the 
healthy  state  and  ruby  colour  of  the  tongues,  palates, 
and  gums,  and,  above  all,  the  admirable  order  and 
brilliant  whiteness  of  each  set  of  teeth.  '  Great  events 
from  trivial  causes  spring,'  and  while  I  was  trying  to 
calculate  how  many  kubaba  (measure  of  two  lbs.)  of 
millet  seed  would  be  requisite  to  fill  all  their  dutch- 
oven  mouths,  and  how  many  cowries  would  be  re- 
quired to  pay  for  such  a  large  quantity  of  millet,  and 
wondering  at  the  antics  of  the  juveniles  of  the  popula- 
tion, whose  uncontainable,  irrepressible  wonder  seemed 
to  find  its  natural  expression  in  hopping  on  one  leg, 
thrusting  their  right  thumbs  into  their  mouths  to 
repress  the  rising  scream,  and  slapping  the  hinder 
part  of  the  thighs  to  express  or  give  emphasis  to  what 
was  speechless — while  thus  engaged,  and  just  thinking 


26  BROTHERS  AND  SISTERS! 


it  was  time  to  depart,  it  happened  that  one  of  the 
youthful  innocents  already  described,  more  restless 
than  his  brothers,  stumbled  against  a  long  heavy  pole 
which  was  leaning  insecurely  against  one  of  the  trees. 

"  The  pole  fell,  striking  one  of  my  men  severely  on 
the  head.  And  all  at  once  there  went  up  from  the 
women  a  genuine  and  unaffected  cry  of  pity,  and  their 
faces  expressed  so  lively  a  sense  of  tender  sympathy 
with  the  wounded  man,  that  my  heart,  keener  than  my 
eyes,  saw  through  the  disguise  of  filth,  nakedness,  and 
ochre  the  human  heart  beating  for  another's  suffering  ; 
and  I  then  recognised  and  hailed  them  as  indeed  my 
own  poor  and  degraded  sisters. 

"  Under  the  new  light  which  had  dawned  on  me,  I 
reflected  that  I  had  done  some  wrong  to  my  dusky 
relatives,  and  that  they  might  have  been  described 
less  harshly,  and  introduced  to  the  world  with  less 
disdain.  Before  I  quitted  the  village,  they  made  me 
still  more  regret  my  former  haughty  feelings  ;  for  the 
chief  and  his  subjects  loaded  my  men  with  bounties 
of  bananas,  chickens,  Indian  corn,  and  uialafii  (palm 
wine),  and  escorted  me  respectfully  far  beyond  the 
precincts  of  the  village  and  their  fields,  parting  from 
mc  at  last  with  the  assurance  that,  should  I  ever 
happen  to  return  by  their  country,  they  would 
endeavour  to  make  my  second  visit  to  Uhombo  much 
more  agreeable  than  m\'  first  had  been."  ^ 

Central  Africa  is  in  one  sense  a  roadless  world,  yet 

'  l-'iom  ihc  "  Dark  Continent." 


AFRICAN  FOOTPATHS. 


27 


not  without 
roads  of  a 
kind.  They 
are  not  fifty 
feet  wide  and 
macadamized. 
No  remains 
of  old  Roman 
roads  are 
there.  Yet 
from  sea  to 
sea  the  Dark 
Continent  is 
crossed  b\' 
tracks  of  a 
kind  which 
can  be  fol- 
lowed. 

A  recent 
traveller  thus 
describes  these  roads  : 

"  Talking  of  native  footpaths  leads  me  to  turn 
aside  for  a  moment  to  explain  to  the  uninitiated  the 
true  mode  of  African  travel.  In  spite  of  all  the  books 
that  have  been  lavished  upon  us  by  our  great  explorers, 
few  people  seem  to  have  any  accurate  understanding 
of  this  most  simple  process.  Some  have  the  impres- 
sion that  everything  is  done  in  bullock  wagons,  an 
idea  borrowed  from  the  Cape,  but  hopelessly  inappli- 
cable to  Central  Africa,  where  a  wheel  at  present 
would  be  as  great  a  novelty  as  a  polar  bear.     Others, 


A    PATH    IX    CENTRAL   AFRICA. 


28  A   NET- WORK  OF  TRACKS. 

at  the  opposite  extreme,  suppose  that  the  explorer 
works  along  solely  by  compass,  making  a  bee  line  for 
his  destination,  and  steering  his  caravan  through  the 
trackless  wilderness  like  a  ship  at  sea.  Now  it  may 
be  a  surprise  to  the  unenlightened,  that  probably  no 
explorer  in  forcing  his  passage  through  Africa  has 
ever,  for  more  than  a  few  days  at  a  time,  been  off 
some  beaten  track.  Probably  no  country  in  the  world, 
civilized  or  uncivilized,  is  better  supplied  with  paths 
than  this  unmapped  continent.  Every  village  is  con- 
nected with  some  other  village,  every  tribe  with  the 
next  tribe,  every  state  with  its  neighbour,  and  therefore 
with  all  the  rest.  The  explorer's  business  is  simply 
to  select  from  this  network  of  tracks,  keep  a  general 
direction,  and  hold  on  his  way.  Let  him  begin  at 
Zanzibar,  plant  his  foot  on  a  native  footpath,  and  set 
his  face  towards  Tanganyika.  In  eight  months  he  will 
be  there  ;  he  has  simply  to  persevere  !  From  village 
to  village  he  will  be  handed  on,  /-ig-zagging  it  may 
be  sometimes  to  avoid  the  impassive  barriers  of  nature 
or  the  rarer  perils  of  hostile  tribes,  but  ne\-cr  taking  to 
the  woods,  guided  solely  by  the  stars,  and  never  in 
fact  leaving  a  beaten  track,  till  hundreds  and  hundreds 
of  miles  are  between  him  and  the  sea,  and  his  inter- 
minable footpaths  end  with  a  canoe  on  the  shores  of 
Tanganyika.  Crossing  the  lake,  landing  near  some 
native  village,  he  picks  up  the  thread  once  more. 
Again  he  plods  on  and  on,  now  on  foot,  now  by  canoe, 
but  always  keeping  his  line  of  villages,  until  one  day 
suddenly  he  sniffs  the  sea  breeze  again,  and  his  faith- 
ful foot-wide  guide  lands  him  on  the  Atlantic  seaboard. 


CHARACTER   OF  AFRICAN  FOOTPATHS.  29 

"  Nor  is  there  any  art  in  finding  out  these  successive 
villages,  with  their  intercommunicating  links.  He 
must  find  them  out.  A  whole  army  of  guides,  ser- 
vants, carriers,  soldiers,  and  camp-followers  accom- 
pany him  in  his  march,  and  this  nondescript  regiment 
must  be  fed.  Indian  corn,  cassava,  mawere,  beans, 
and  bananas, — these  do  not  grow  wild,  even  in  Africa. 
Every  meal  has  to  be  bought  and  paid  for  in  cloth 
and  beads,  and  scarcely  three  days  can  pass  without 
a  call  having  to  be  made  at  some  village,  where  the 
necessary  supplies  can  be  obtained.  A  caravan,  as  a 
rule,  must  live  from  hand  to  mouth,  and  its  march 
becomes  simply  a  regulated  procession  through  a 
chain  of  markets  !  Not  however  that  there  are  any 
real  markets  ;  there  are  neither  bazaars  nor  stores  in 
native  Africa.  Thousands  of  the  villages  through 
which  the  traveller  eats  his  way  may  never  have 
victualled  a  caravan  before.  But  with  the  chief's 
consent,  which  is  usually  easily  purchased  for  a  showy 
present,  the  villages  unlock  their  larders,  the  women 
flock  to  the  grinding  stones,  and  basketfuls  of  food 
are  swiftly  exchanged  for  unknown  equivalents  in 
beads  and  calico. 

"  The  native  tracks  which  I  have  just  described  are 
the  same  in  character  all  over  Africa.  They  are 
veritable  footpaths,  never  over  a  foot  in  breadth,  beaten 
as  hard  as  adamant,  and  rutted  beneath  the  level  of 
the  forest  bed,  by  centuries  of  native  traffic.  As  a 
rule  these  footpaths  are  marvellously  direct.  Like 
the  roads  of  the  old  Romans,  they  run  straight  on 
through  everything,  ridge  and  mountain   and  valley, 


M.W  M/Nl'.'i  Al.rixUISTIC  IDEAS. 


never  shyinfj  at  obstacles,  nor  aii)'uhere  turninj^  aside 
to  breathe.     Yet  within  this  general  straightforward- 
ness there  is  a  singular  eccentricity  and  indirectness 
in  detail.     Although  the  African  footpath  is,  on  the 
whole,  a  bee-line,  no  fift}-  yards  of  it  are  ever  straight, 
and  the  reason  is  not  far  to  seek.     If  a  stone  is  ever 
encountered,  no  native    will    think    of  removing    it  ! 
Why  .should  he?     It  is  easier  to  walk  round  it.     The 
next  man  who  comes  that  way  will  do  the  same.     He 
knows  that  a  hundred  men  arc  following  him.     He 
looks   at    the   stone  ;    a    moment,   and    it    might    be 
unearthed  and  tossed  aside  :  but  no  ;  he  also  holds  on 
his  way.     It  is  not  that  he  resents  the  trouble,  it  is 
the  idea  that  is  wanting.      It    would  no   more    occur 
to   him    that  that  stone   was   a   displaceable  object, 
and  that  for   the  general   weal  he  might  displace  it, 
than  that  its  feldspar  was  of  the  orthoclase  variet}'. 
Generations  and  generations  of  men  have  passed  that 
stone,  and  it  still  waits  for  a  man   with  an   altruistic 
idea.     But  it  would  be  a  very   stony  country  indeed 
— and  Africa  is  far  from  stony — that  would  wholly 
account    for    the    aggravating    obliqueness    and  in- 
decision   of   the    African    footpaths.     Probabh-   each 
four  miles  on  an  average  path   is  spun   out  b}-  an 
infinite    series    of    minor    sinuosities  to    fi\e    or    six. 
Now  these   deflections   are    not    meaningless.     Each 
has  some   histor}' — a   histor\'  dating  back  perhaps  a 
thousand   years,  but  to  which   all   clue  has,  centuries 
ago,  been  lost.     The  leading  cause  probably  is  fallen 
trees.     When  a  tree  falls  across  a  path,  no  man  ever 
removes  it.     As  in  the  case  of  the  stone,  the  natives 


THE  PEOPLE   OF  THE   NEW  WORLD. 


go  round  it.  It  is  too  green  to  burn  in  his  hut;  before 
it  is  dry,  and  the  white  ants  have  eaten  it,  the  new 
detour  becames  part  and  parcel  of  the  path.  The 
smaller  irregularities,  on  the  other  hand,  represent 
the  trees  and  stumps  of  the  primeval  forest,  where 
the  track  was  made  at  first.  But  whatever  the 
cause,  it  is  certain  that  for  persistent  straightforward- 
ness in  general,  and  utter  vacillation  and  irresolution 
in  particular,  the  African  roads  are  unique  in 
engineering."  ^ 

The  following  pages  will  exhibit  much  of  the  social 
and  religious  condition  of  the  people  of  this  new 
world.  The  last  quoted  author  has  written  of  them  as 
affording  a  picture  of  "  primeval  man."  We  regard 
them  rather  as  the  sin-degraded  descendants  of  ori- 
ginally purer,  wiser,  and  happier  races.  Geography, 
history,  and  language,  all  point  to  the  conclusion  that 
Africa  was  peopled  from  the  north-east ;  that  is, 
across  the  Isthmus  of  Suez,  the  Red  Sea,  and  the 
Persian  Gulf,  from  Asia,  the  cradle  of  the  race.  This 
Scripture  and  science  alike  prove.  Nov/  degradation 
spreads  in  ever-deepening  shades  over  the  continent, 
from  north-east  to  south-west,  until  we  reach  the 
scarcely  human  inhabitants  of  the  Kalihari  Desert. 
Degradation,  like  death,  is  the  wages  of  sin  ;  and  in 
this  world,  as  all  experience  teaches,  it  attaches  to 
nations  as  well  as  to  individuals.  Sin  reigns  in  Africa, 
and  sin  which,  in  spite  of  their  heathenism,  the  people 
know  to  be  sin.     They  themselves  accuse  or  excuse 


'  Drummoxd  :  "Tropical  Africa." 


32  AN  UNKVANGELIZED    WORLD. 


one  another,  thou^'h  their  consciences  arc  in  many 
respects  seared,  as  with  a  hot  iron.  But  they  are 
ashamed  of  their  cannibalism,  and  try  to  conceal  it 
from  the  white  man,  and  so  with  some  other  crimes. 
Religion  they  have  none,  for  the  fetish  worship  to 
which  they  are  addicted  cannot  be  called  a  religion. 
They  are  not  even  idol-worshippers,  though  they 
have  certain  images,  which  they  regard  as  charms 
more  than  as  gods.  They  do  not  worship  the  sun,  or 
deify  the  elements.  Their  ignorance  of  all  religious 
truth  is  utter,  and  their  sole  point  of  sound  philo- 
sophy is  a  hazy  belief  in  a  future  life.  But  they  arc 
teachable,  for  they  are  of  childlike  natures.  Curio- 
sity, wonder,  sympathy,  docility,  all  arc  there,  and  the 
missionary  finds  faculties  to  which  he  can  appeal. 

Ikit  think  of  a  new  world  in  this  nineteenth  ccn- 
tur)'  almost  entirely  uncvangelized  !  Think  of  hun- 
dreds of  languages  not  yet  even  reduced  to  writing, 
and  having  in  them  no  words  for  the  love  and  mercy 
of  God,  no  term  for  the  Saviour  !  Think  of  hundreds 
of  millions  of  human  beings,  still  in  this  end  of  the 
age,  without  the  word  of  God  or  the  message  of 
salvation  ! 

Is  it  not  a  ver\'  remarkable  fact,  that  to  the  revived 
Church  of  the  last  half  of  this  nineteenth  century 
should  be  presented  in  the  providence  of  God  a  con- 
tinent to  be  evangelized  ? 

The  more  we  study  the  condition  of  Africa,  the 
more  shall  we  be  convinced  that  to  give  it  the  gospel 
is  now  the  first  great  duty  of  Christians.  It  may  be 
that  it  is  the  last  great  task  of  the  Church.     "  This 


MATTHEW  XXIV.    14. 


33 


gospel  of  the  kingdom  must  first  be  preached  among 
all  nations  ;  and  then  shall  the  end  come." 

So  said  our  Saviour,  and  Africa  is  the  last  great 
.unevangelized  portion  of  the  earth. 

For  four  hundred  years  there  had  lain  within  three 
weeks'  steam  of  London  the  gate  of  this  million- 
peopled  region,  and  yet  an  impassable  barrier  sepa- 
rated it  alike  from  the  world  and  from  the  Church. 
But  in  the  purpose  of  God  the  time  was  come  that 
the  gate  should  be  thrown  wide  open.  He  guided 
Stanley  across  Africa,  and  then  used  his  story  to  in- 
troduce Africa  to  the  circle  of  Christian  sympathies. 

It  is  only  ten  or  twelve  years  ago,  yet  what  a 
wonderful  change  already !  As  Elisee  Reclus  has 
well  said,  "  L'on  reste  confondu  devant  les  resultats 
obtenu  dans  Ic  court  espace  de  dix  ans." 


C.  A. 


HENRY    M.    STANLEY, 

THE    CHRISTOPHER    COLUMBUS 

OF    THE    NEW    WORLD    OF    CENTRAL    AFRICA. 

34 


CHAPTER    II. 
A  JOURNEY  THROUGH  THE  NEW  WO  RED. 

From  the  mere  titles  of  books  we  learn  something. 
Most  of  us  are  aware  that  certain  travellers  have 
gone  like  Stanley  "  Through  the  Dark  Continent," 
and  like  Cameron  "  Across  Africa "  ;  we  know  that 
Thompson  passed  "  Through  INIasai  Land,"  and 
Farini  "Through  the  Kalihari  Desert";  we  have  read 
how  Serpa  Pinto  crossed  "From  Benguella  to  Yacca," 
and  how  Sir  Samuel  and  Lady  Baker  visited  "  The 
Albert  Nyanza,  Great  Basin  of  the  Nile."  Messrs. 
Wilson  and  Felkin  have  described  "  Uganda  and  the 
Egyptian  Soudan,"  and  the  letters  and  journals  of 
Gordon  and  Emin  Pasha  unveil  much  of  the  Upper 
Nile  regions  ;  while  multitudes  of  others  have  pene- 
trated more  or  less  deeply,  like  Schweinfurth,  into 
"  The  Heart  of  Africa."  But  how  few  do  more  than 
glance  at  such  narratives  of  travel  and  adventure ! 
How  few  study  them  so  as  to  understand  the  new 
world  they  open  up,  or  are  moved  by  them  to  a  sense 
of  the  fresh  responsibilities  and  duties  born  of  new 
opportunities  of  spreading  the  gospel  ! 

With  regard  to  all  the  great  mission  fields,  a  sense 


36  STANLEY'S  LONG,   LONG  JOURNEY. 


of  distance,  of  stranj^ciicss,  of  being  alien  from  our 
own  life,  has  to  be  overcome  before  real  sympathy 
can  be  established,  and  this  is  especially  so  as  rej^^ards 
Central  Africa.  Its  great  countries,  its  countless 
though  uncivilized  "  towns,"  its  populous  river  banks 
and  valleys,  how  little  we  realize  them  !  They  arc 
names  and  little  more  to  most  of  us. 

What  a  different  impression,  for  instance,  is  con- 
veyed to  our  minds  by  the  words,  "Through  the 
Dark  Continent,"  from  that  which  they  produce  on 
the  mind  of  the  intrepid  Stanley !  To  most  they  are 
ivords,  and  little  more  ;  to  him  they  are  a  great,  com- 
plicated memory.  Of  what?  Of  long,  weary  wan- 
derings, lasting  for  nearly  three  years,  and  extending 
over  seven  thousand  miles  of  land  and  water  ;  of 
dangers  dared  and  difficulties  surmounted  ;  of  perils 
encountered,  which  cost  a  hundred  and  seventy  lives 
of  members  of  his  expedition,  and  risked  those  of 
all  the  rest  scores  and  scores  of  times — a  memory, 
clear  and  vivid,  of  countless  countries  and  numberless 
tribes  of  our  fellow  creatures  never  before  seen  by  a 
white  man  ;  of  cannibals  and  ferocious  savages  ;  ot 
mild,  gentle,  peaceful  peoples  ;  or,  again,  of  degraded 
and  demoralized  races  ;  of  swarthy  chiefs  and  kings 
and  armies ;  of  stupendous  mountains,  lakes,  and 
rivers,  and  of  thrilling  adventures  without  end.  To 
read  his  story  carefully,  tracing  on  the  map  each  stage 
of  his  progress,  is  to  gain  some  idea  at  any  rate  of 
Central  Africa  ! 

Starting  from  Zanzibar,  on  the  Indian  Ocean,  in 
November,    1S74,    and   passing  through  the    gardens 


FROM  ZANZIBAR    TO    THE  LAKES.  37 


and  fields  around  Bagamoyo,  he  crossed  the  Kingani 
River,  and  journe}-ed  througli  beautiful,  rich,  park-like 
country  to  the  Pongwe  Hills,  which  rise  to  a  height 
of  1,700  feet.  Then  past  village  after  village,  through 
forests  and  over  plains,  he  traversed  the  countr}'  of 
Useguha,  and  plunging  into  the  valley  of  the  Wami 
River,  abounding  with  palm  trees  and  full  of  game, 
he  reached  the  Nguru  Mountains.  December  brought 
him  into  Usagara  (recently  annexed  by  Germany),  a 
romantic,  picturesque  country,  with  mountain  peaks 
and  ridges  on  all  hands,  and,  dotting  every  summit, 
villages  inhabited  b)-  shy,  suspicious  races,  whose  dis- 
trust of  the  strangers  could  not  be  overcome.  January, 
1875,  found  the  expedition  in  the  thorn-covered,  un- 
pleasant, and  inhospitable  land  of  Ugogo,  "  hateful  to 
the  eye  and  bitter  to  the  mind," — where  the  extortion 
and  insolence  of  the  powerful  and  compact  native 
tribes  obliges  the  traveller  to  pay  tribute  or  to  fight 
at  every  stage  ;  where  the  cold  winds  and  chilly 
atmosphere  bring  fever,  and  the  bad  water  and  sterile, 
ungrateful  soil  combine  to  leave  painful  impressions 
on  the  memory  of  the  traveller. 

Then  the  expedition  plunged  into  an  almost 
impenetrable,  jungly  wilderness,  whose  trackless  wilds 
arc  untravelled  by  caravans.  The  wide  countries  of 
Urimi  and  Ituru  are  next  crossed,  where  the  quarrel- 
some inhabitants  test  the  patience  of  the  visitor, 
though  food  and  water  arc  plentiful,  and  where  emi- 
grants from  the  warlike  INIasai  nation  abound. 

February  brought  the  expedition  to  Iramba,  another 
region  of  hills  and  valleys,  and  stretches  of  forest  land, 


MONDUTIO   WAKRIORS    DKESSKD   IN    I'.ARK. 

witli  numerous  ri\crs,  the  extreme  southern  sources  of 
tlie  Nile  flowin_<:^  into  the  Shimee}'u,  \\hich  falls  into 
the  Victoria  Lake.  lu-erywiiere  were  hundreds  of 
villages  and  hamlets  of  people  addicted  to  wars  and 
fightings,  and  living,  of  course,  without  God,  and 
without  hope  in  the  world  ! 


THE   VICTORIA  NYANZA    PLATEAU.  39 

Next  came  the  pleasant  country  of  Usukuma,  a 
clear,  open,  grassy  plateau,  where  sweet  pastoral 
scenes  charmed  the  travellers,  and  health-giving 
breezes  invigorated  them  ;  where  the  villages  are 
goodly  clusters  of  cone-shaped  huts,  and  the  inhabi- 
tants kind  and  obliging.  And  this  delightful  land 
stretched  right  up  to  the  southern  shores  of  the  great 
Victoria  N}'anza,  on  the  brink  of  which  the  camp 
\\'as  pitched  at  the  end  of  February,  more  than  three 
months  having  been  consumed  in  marching  the  720 
miles  from  the  sea  coast. 

Then  followed  voyages  insteacf  of  marches.  For 
six  long  busy  months  the  little  Lady  Alice  ploughed 
the  waters  of  the  Victorian  sea,  which,  though  on 
the  equator,  lies  so  high  as  to  enjo}'  a  lovely  climate, 
being  more  than  4,000  feet  above  the  level  of  the  ocean. 
Nearly  2,000  miles  were  sailed  over  in  circumnavi- 
gating this  gigantic  lake  !  First  the  countries  around 
Speke  Gulf,  and  many  a  pleasant  islet  lying  on  its 
waters  are  passed  ;  then  river  after  river  flowing  into 
the  lake,  and  countless  Wasukuma  villages  on  its 
shores  ;  Ukerewc  and  Shizu,  and  the  Bird  Islands 
glide  by  ;  for  800  or  900  miles  the  expedition  coasts 
with  var}'ing  fortunes  along  the  shores  of  Ururi, 
Ugeyeya,  and  Ugana,  and  by  the  end  of  March  the 
country,  of  Usoga  is  reached.  Its  people  are  "arrant 
rogues,  treacherous  and  untractable,"  the}-  "  excel  all 
others  in  savage  craft  and  violent  disposition "  ;  the 
passage  past  their  country  is  anything  but  pleasant, 
as  it  is  difficult  to  avoid  skirmishes. 

The  transition  to  the  next  country,  Uganda,  was 


40  ROYALTY,  KIC-flES,  SUNSHINE,  AND  CEREMONY. 


a  relief.  This  was  the  domain  of  the  ^Mxat  ("entral 
African  potentate,  Mtesa,  and  is  described  as  an 
earthly  paradise.  Sweet  views  into  snu^  coves  and 
creeks  charmed  the  travellers  ;  the  low,  wooded  hills 
seen  from  the  lake  were  covered  w  ilh  plantations  of 
bananas,  and  backed  by  upland  pastures  and  blue 
ranges  of  distant  hills.  Mtesa  had  a  fleet  of  tlirec 
hundred  war  canoes,  and  an  army  of  a  hundred  and 
fifty  thousand  warriors.  Very  pompous  and  cere- 
monious was  the  reception  accorded  to  the  white  men 
from  afar :  the  loni^  lines  of  well-dressed  soldier)', 
with  their  wavint^  flags  and  banners,  were  drawn  up 
to  receive  him  on  the  beach  ;  volleys  of  musketry 
celebrated  his  arrival  ;  noisy  music,  and  ostentatious 
greetings  of  gorgeously  apparelled  courtiers,  preceded 
the  royal  reception  ;  and  deeply  interesting  conversa- 
tions on  moral  and  religious  subjects  were  held  with 
that  superior  but  despotic  and  cruel  king.  A  naval 
review  on  the  lake  was  witnessed  by  the  traveller  ; 
and  he  journeyed  over  a  road  eight  feet  broad  to 
the  great  capital  on  the  hill  at  Rubaga,  a  town  with 
beautiful  prospects  on  every  side,  and  avenues  a  hun- 
dred feet  broad.  A  voluptuous  land  of  sunshine  and 
early  summer  verdure,  cooled  by  soft  breezes  from 
the  great  equatorial  fresh-water  sea,  a  land  of  peace 
and  plenty  is  Uganda,  possessing  a  fascination  that 
charms  the  visitor,  and,  inhabited  by  a  people  alto- 
gether superior  to  the  general  run  of  African  tribes. 
It  is  rich  in  ivory,  coffee,  gums,  resins,  myrrh,  skins, 
and  beautiful  silky  goat's  hair,  eight  inches  in  length, 
besides  producing  all  the  necessaries  of  life,  and  sus- 


CENTRAL   AFRICAN  ALPS.  41 

taining  cattle  in  abundance.  Its  soil  seems  to  be  of 
inexhaustible  fertility,  with  magnificent  foliage  and 
rich  pastures.  It  has  a  population  of  about  3,000,000, 
and,  with  its  tributary  states,  covers  an  extent  of 
70,000  square  miles.  But,  alas  !  it  is  a  land  of  tyranny 
and  murder,  a  land  whence  armed  expeditions  are 
constantly  issuing  to  destroy,  or,  in  native  phrase, 
"'  eat  up "  the  neighbouring  states,  to  enslave  their 
women,  murder  their  men,  and  steal  their  cattle. 

The  summer  and  autumn  of  1875  passed  away 
while  the  great  lake  and  its  neighbourhood  were  being 
explored  ;  and  when  November  came  round  again 
a  fresh  start  for  the  west  was  made. 

A  wildly  magnificent  tract  of  country-,  previously 
untraversed  by  Europeans,  was  explored,  the  belt  of 
a  hundred  miles  wide  lying  between  the  Victoria  and 
Muta  Nzige,  or,  as  it  is  now  named,  the  Albert 
Edward  Lake. 

Foiled  in  his  desire  to  circumnavigate  this  latter 
lake  by  the  faithlessness  and  cowardice  of  his  escort, 
the  traveller  had  to  turn  back  from  the  spot  where  he 
sighted  it,  and  passing  between  the  great  blue,  snow- 
capped Gordon-Bennett  Mountains  on  the  north  and 
the  stupendous  summit  of  Mount  Lawson  on  the 
south,  to  return  to  the  borders  of  Uganda.  These 
mountains  are  Central  African  Alps,  rising  from 
12,000  to  18,000  feet  high,  and  crowned  even  under 
the  equator  with  perpetual  snow.  Fierce  and  can- 
nibal tribes  were  said  to  dwell  in  the  great  country 
of  Uregga,  west  of  the  lake,  but  they  had  not  then 
been  visited. 


42  //   FAG  AM  ro  TEN  TATE. 

Another  month  of  hard  travel  brought  the  expe- 
dition to  Karaf^Mvc,  the  country  of  the  good  king 
Kumahika,  an  intelligent  and  mild  old  man,  with  a 
countenance  like  "  the  serene  and  placid  face  of  some 
old  saint  or  patriarch  held  in  reverence  by  the  Chris- 
tian Church."  "  His  face  reminded  me  of  a  still,  deep 
well,  and  the  tones  of  his  voice  were  so  calm,  that 
unconsciousl)'  they  compelled  me  to  imitate  him." 
This  sweet-tempered  though  pagan  potentate  stood 
six  feet  six  high,  and  had  a  refined  profile  and  rather 
a  Roman  no.se.  He  took  a  vivid  interest  in  furnish- 
ing all  the  information  he  could  to  the  explorer,  and 
deeply  regretted  the  brevity  of  his  visit  to  Karagwe. 

A  month  spent  in  the  exploration  of  the  Alexandra 
Nile  and  the  long  .series  of  small  lakes  connected 
with  it  brought  the  traveller  to  Usui,  and  the  moun- 
tain ridge  which  is  the  watershed  between  the  great 
river  .s)-stem  of  the  Nile  and  that  of  the  Congo,  of 
which  Lake  Tanganj'ika  is  one  reservoir.  Then  the 
populous  and  fertile  basin  of  Uyagoma  is  passed,  and 
the  country  of  Usambiro  entered  and  traversed  ;  and 
b)'  the  middle  of  April,  Unyamwesi,  with  its  rich 
farms  and  well  wooded  hills,  its  large,  palisaded  towns 
'and  villages  of  a  thousand  huts,  is  reached. 

Many  a  week  is  passed  in  traversing  this  great 
country,  crossing  its  flooded  plains,  and  pushing 
through  its  dense  jungles  ;  and  not  till  the  end  of 
May,  1876,  in  the  second  year  of  the  journc}-,  is  Ujiji, 
on  Lake  Tanganj-ika,  sighted. 

A  glance  at  the  map  shows  that  after  these  nineteen 
months  of  incessant  and  weary  journeying  the  traveller 


■^:.>:'"--52 


'crossing  1-looded  plains."     {Sec p.  ^2.) 


is  onh'  one-third  "  through  the  Dark  Continent "  ! 
Before  he  starts  westward  again  however,  the  great 
Tanganyika  is  circumnavigated.  Eight  hundred  miles 
of  its  waters  are  sailed  over,  coasting  round  the  coun- 
tries of  Urundi,  Uguru,  Uvinza,  Ugara,  Kawendi, 
Ukazanya,  Urimba,  Tongwe,  Fipa,  Urungu,  Uemba, 
Marungu,  Uguha,  Goma,  Bakombe,  Ubembe,  and 
Uvira.  These  all  are  passed  in  succession  in  the 
course  of  the  two  months  spent  in  sailing  round  the 
lake,  which  lies  2,756  feet  above  the  sea,  has  a  coast- 
line of  930  miles,  and  is  so  deep  that  1,280  feet  of 
cord  gave  no  bottom  in  mid-lake  ! 

September  and  October  of  the  second  j-ear  after 
the  start  from  the  East  Coast  see  the  traveller  once 
more  pressing  westward  along  the  beautiful  valley  of 
the  Luama  River,  through  the  three  or  four  hundred 
miles  l}'ing  between  Ujiji  and  Nyangwe,  on  the  Lua- 
laba,  as  the  Congo  in  this  part  of  its  course  is  called. 


44 


n'EI.l    WATEKF.n,    /'Or(//.OL'S   MAXVEMA. 


Thouj^h  here  and  tlu  re  depopulated  b)-  the  slave 
raids  of  Arabs,  who  had  penetrated  even  then  thus 
far  into  Central  Africa  in  jnirsuance  of  their  wicked 
and  cruel  trade,  >et  the  country  here  is  on  the 
whole  populous,  antl  it  presents  new  features  both 
as  to  its  animal  and  vegetable  productions,  and  as 
to  its  human  inhabitants,  of  whose  physiognomy  the 
annexed  cuts  give  a  not  unpleasing  impression. 


NATIVKS   OF    UliUJWE. 

Uguha  is  occupied  b}-  a  curious  aboriginal  race, 
who  perforate  the  upper  lip,  and  insert  a  piece  of 
stone  or  wood,  till  it  ex- 
tends the  lip  to  an  inch 
and  a  half  or  two  inches. 
Ubujwe,  Uhyeya,  and 
Uvinza  (forest  lands  on 
mountain  ridges,  homes  of 
the  chimpanzee  or  "  soko  "), 
Uhombo,  and  l')ambarre 
are  passed,  and  then  the 
great,  well  watered,  and 
populous  country  of  Man- 
yema.     It    stretches   away  native  ok  uhyeya. 


THE  MIGHTY  CONGO  AT  LAST.  45 

to  the  Lualaba,  full  of  shapely  villages,  where  the 
houses  are  ranged  in  parallel  streets,  or  in  diverging 
rows  like  stars,  with  bright  red  walls  and  sloping 
4'oofs,  and  well  cultivated  lands  around.  The  men 
are  well  dressed  and  the  women  good  looking,  and 
expert  smiths  and  native  musicians  abound.  But 
they  indulge,  alas !  in  cannibalism  when  they  can. 

After  tivo years'  travelling,  the  mighty  river  Congo 
is  sighted.  Away  there  in  Manyema,  1,500  or  1,600 
miles  from  its  mouth,  it  is  a  strong-sweeping  current 
of  turbid,  yellow  water,  fully  a  mile  wide,  and  flow- 
ing at  the  rate  of  three  or  four  knots  an  hour.  No 
one  had  ever  before  followed  its  course  beyond 
Nyangwe ;  when  Stanley  started  from  that  great 
centre  half  a  continent  lay  still  totally  nnexplorcd 
before  him.  Terrible  tales  of  its  horrors  were  freely 
poured  into  his  ear  ;  but,  heeding  them  not,  he 
plunged  boldly  into  the  utterly  unknown. 

At  first  the  expedition  tried  to  travel  by  land,  and 
struggled  for  months  with  desperate  effort  through 
Uguha,  Uregga,  and  Manyema.  But  the  extreme 
difficulty  of  penetrating  these  dense,  dark,  primeval 
forests  disheartened  and  disorganized  the  force. 
Then,  gazing  on  the  broad,  bright,  swift-flowing  river, 
the  explorer  came  to  the  resolution  to  take  to  it  and 
keep  to  it,  till  it  should  lead  him  to  the  ocean.  "  I 
seek  a  road  !  We  have  laboured  through  the  terrible 
forests,  and  manfully  struggled  through  their  gloom. 
My  people's  hearts  have  become  faint.  I  seek  a 
road  ;  why,  here  lies  a  broad,  watery  avenue  cleaving 
the  unknown  to  some  sea,  like  a  path  of  light !     Here 


46  10 UK  MONTHS  Al-I.OAT  DOWN  STREAM. 


are  woods  all  round,  suflficient  for  a  thousand  fleets 
of  canoes  ;  why  not  build  them  ?  To-day  I  ivill 
launch  my  boat  on  thai  stream,  and  it  shall  not  leave  it 
till  I  finish  my  ivork  !  " 

This  resolution  was  kept  !  For  fonr  long  months 
was  the  brave  explorer  borne  down  by  the  steady 
current  of  the  mighty  Livingstone  River,  down 
through  a  thousand  miles  of  country  previously 
unseen  by  European  eyes,  past  the  mouths  of  twenty 
or  thirty  large  rivers,  which  poured  into  the  main 
stream  such  volumes  of  water  as  told  that  they  came 
from  very  very  far,  past  the  Ruiki  and  the  Lira  and 
the  Kasuka,  the  Urindi  and  the  Lowwa  and  the 
Leopold  rivers,  past  the  Lomani  and  the  Aruwimi 
and  the  Loika  and  the  Lulanga  and  the  Ikelemba, 
whose  tea-coloured  waters  do  not  for  one  hundred  and 
thirty  miles  belozu  the  confluence  mingle  with  those  of 
the  main  stream  ;  past  the  Juapa,  the  Mobangi,  and 
the  Kasai  rivers,  right  down  to  Stanley  Pool.  There 
the  great  water-way  ceases  to  be  navigable,  and  con- 
tracting from  a  width  of  four,  six,  and  even  ten  miles, 
to  an  impetuous  torrent  a  few  hundred  yards  wide, 
rushes  through  tremendous  mountain  gorges,  in  a 
series  of  cataracts  and  falls,  descending  eleven  hun- 
dred feet  to  Yeliala,  whence  it  flows  as  the  tranquil 
Lower  Congo  to  the  Atlantic  Ocean. 

Never  will  the  explorer  forget  the  terrible  and 
tragic  experiences  of  those  four  months  of  floating 
down  the  broad  upper  river,  the  incessant  and  furious 
onslaughts  of  savage  men,  the  desperate  conflicts 
which  drove  his  little  fleet  to  take  refuge  amid  the 


'•    IRA'IIC    STRUliCLKS    Willi    THE    MIi.lIIV    RIVER."      {ScC  JhWi />il^V.) 

uninhabited  wooded  islands  in  the  centre  of  the 
stream,  at  the  risk  of  starvation  ;  the  thirty-two 
battles  which  had  to  be  fought  for  dear  Hfe,  the 
incessant  cries  of  pursuing  cannibal  hordes,  shouting 
"  meat,  meat !  "  And  never  should  Christians  forget 
the  scenes  of  moral  ruin  and  misery  unveiled  in  that 
voyage,  the  dark  world  of  degradation  and  violence 
revealed,  in  which  sin  and  Satan  reign  supreme, 
because  the  Son  of  God  and  Saviour  of  mankind  is 
all  unknown. 

At  Stanley  Pool  came  a  change  of  experience,  but 
it  was  scarcely  an  improvement.  The  natives  became 
less  terrible,  but  the  river  itself  more  so  !  "It  was  no 
longer  the  stately  stream  whose  mystic  beauty,  noble 
grandeur,  and    gentle,   uninterrupted  flow  fascinated 


48 


THE    TERRIBLE   CATARACTS. 


US,  despite  the  savaj^cry  (jf  its  pecjpled  shores  ;  but  a 
furious  river  rusliin^  down  a  steep  bed,  obstructed  by 
heaps  of  lava,  projecting  barriers  of  rock,  and  hncs  of 
immense  boulders,  windin^j  in  crooked  course  throuj:jh 
deep  chasms,  and  dropping  down  over  terraces  in 
a  long  series  of  falls,  cataracts,  and  rapids.  Our  fre- 
quent contest  with  the  savages  culminated  in  tragic 
struggles  with  the  mighty  river,  as  it  rushed  and 
roared  through  the  deep,  j-awning  jjass  that  leads 
from  the  broad  tableland  of  Central  Africa  down 
to  the  Atlantic  Ocean.  Those  voiceless  and  lone 
streams  meandering  between  a  thousand  isles  ;  those 
calm  and  silent  wildernesses  of  water  over  which  we 
had  poured  out  our  griefs  and  wailed  in  our  sorrow  ; 
that  sealike  amplitude  of  river  which  had  proved  our 
refuge  in  ciistress,  weird  in  its  stillness  and   solemn  in 


"TO  DKAC.  THE  CANOES  OVERLAND  "  (/.  49). 


IN   THE   RAPIDS. 


its  mystery,  were  exchanged  for  the  cHff-lined  gorge, 
through  which  with  inconcei\-able  fury  it  sweeps  with 
foaming  billows  into  the  broad  Lower  Congo." 

For  four  months  more,  all  through  the  summer  of 
1877,  this  struggle  with  the  river  had  to  be  daily 
maintained,  and  an  awful  struggle  it  was  !  To  navi- 
gate the  practicable  reaches  of  calm  water  was  com- 
paratively easy,  but  to  drag  the  canoes  overland  past 
each  fall  and  rapid  in  the  river  involved  tremendous 
labour  and  difficulty.  Fourteen  were  drowned  in  the 
dangerous  descent  ;  and  insufficient  food, — amounting 
at  last  to  starvation, — excessive  hard  work,  and  over- 
whelming fatigue  disabled  many  more. 

C.  A.  49  4 


50  AN  UNliVANGEI.lZED    WORLD. 


It  was  a  waj'U'orn,  feeble,  sufferinc^  band  that 
reached  Isanj^nla  Falls  at  the  end  of  Jul)-,  1S77. 
Forty  were  on  the  sick  list,  and  disease  was  rapidly 
increasing',  liut  the  long  journey  was  well-nigh  ended, 
the  sea  was  almost  in  sight,  and,  abandoning  the  river 
at  last,  the  heroic  explorer  led  the  remnant  of  his 
party  overland  to  Boma,  only  just  in  time  to  save 
their  lives,  after  a  journcj'  of  seven  ilionsand  miles,  up 
and  down  and  across  broad  Africa. 

And  through  all  these  seven  thousand  miles,  and  among 
all  these  countless  peoples  and  kindreds  and  tongues,  and 
during  all  those  long  months  and  years,  Stanley  did  not 
meet  one  single  Christian,  nor  any  who  had  ever  even 
heard  the  gospel !  He  gazed  on  the  representatives  of 
tribes  numbering  at  least  fifty  millions ;  but  to  none  of 
them  had  the  message  of  mercy  ever  been  proclaimed,  to 
none  of  them  had  the  glad  tidings  of  salvation  and  eternal 
life  through  Christ  been  carried ! 

And  this  was  only  one  journey  on  one  line,  as  it 
were,  "  through  the  Dark  Continent."  A  hundred 
similar  ones  might  be  taken.  Africa  is  5,000  miles 
long  ;  if  crossed  at  distances  of  fifty  miles,  a  Jnindrea 
such  Journeys  would  have  to  be  taken,  in  a  hundred 
different  latitudes  ;  and  in  by  far  the  hirger  part  oj 
them  not  a  single  disciple  of  Christ  would  be  met  from 
east  to  west !  To  so  melancholy  an  extent  is  Africa 
in  this  nineteenth  century  still  unevangelized,  that 
line  after  line  might  be  stretched  from  the  Indian 
Ocean  to  the  Atlantic,  and  pass  through  only  heathen 
nations,  which  have  never  had  a  chance  of  being  any- 
thing but  heathen  ! 


AFRICA  AND  EUROPE  LINKED.  51 

Cameron  took  three  years  in  crossing  Africa  in  a 
much  more  direct  h'lie.  Startinc^  in  1872,  and  passing 
througli  Ugogo  and  Unyanycmbc,  he  crossed  Lake 
Tanganyika  and  struck  the  Congo  at  Nyangwe, 
whence  turning  southwards,  and  traversing  Kassange 
and  Bihe,  he  emerged  at  Benguella. 

He  passed  through  equally  uncvangelized  territory, 
and  saw  and  reported  much  of  the  awful  misery  and 
degradation  of  heathenism.  But  his  journey  had 
none  of  the  important  practical  results  which  that  of 
Stanley  has  had.  The  great  discovery  of  the  latter 
linked  together  heathen  Africa  and  enlightened 
Europe.  He  proved  that  the  long  familiar  mouth  of 
the  Congo,  within  three  weeks'  sail  from  London, 
Antwerp,  and  Rotterdam,  was  the  real  western  en- 
trance into  Africa,  an  entrance  which,  by  means  of  a 
short  railroad,  would  afford  ready  access  to  a  vast 
navigable  water-way,  piercing  the  Dark  Continent, 
north,  south,  and  east,  for  thousands  of  miles. 

This  great  discovery  might  prove  cither  a  blessing 
or  a  curse  to  Africa,  according  to  the  use  which  should 
be  made  of  it.  Not  brave  exploration  only,  but  clever 
statemanship  was  needed,  in  order  that  the  intro- 
duction of  Central  Africa  to  the  world  should  bring 
to  it  good  and  not  evil.  But  the  time  to  bless  Africa 
was  come,  and  God,  who  in  His  providence  had  raised 
up  first  Livingstone  and  then  Stanley,  to  reveal  to 
men  the  condition  of  its  great  interior,  now  raised  up 
for  it  a  royal  friend,  in  the  person  of  Leopold  King  of 
the  Belgians.  In  our  next  chapter  we  must  tell  how 
the  great  work  was  carried  on. 


CHAPTER    III. 
HOW  THE   FREE   STATE    WAS  FOUNDED. 

It  was  in  the  autumn  of  1879  that  the  second  stage 
of  Stanley's  work  on  the  Congo  began.  It  differed 
most  materially  from  the  first.  That  had  been  a 
private  expedition,  sent  out  by  two  newspaper 
editors,  and  its  main  object  had  been  discovery.  But 
his  second  journey  was  of  an  even  more  important 
character.  An  influential  association,  which  aimed 
at  permanent  work  for  the  regeneration  of  Africa, 
had  been  formed  in  Belgium,  with  the  King  at  its 
head,  and  bearing  the  title  of  the  "  Comite  d'fitudes 
du  Haut  Congo."  Its  object  was  to  study  on  the 
spot  the  problem  of  what  could  be  done  to  introduce 
civilization  and  commerce  into  the  great  basin  of  the 
mighty  river. 

The  leading  explorer  of  his  day  was  commissioned 
to  go  and  if  possible  to  open  up — for  their  own  benefit, 
and  for  the  benefit  of  the  world — the  vast  regions 
he  had  made  known  for  the  first  time,  regions  which 
for  ages  had  been  scaled  against  civilization  and 
commerce. 

The  object  of  the  expedition  was  not  religious,  but 


54  STANLEY'S    Til //CD  M/SS/ON  AV  A /-RICA. 

its  indirect  effect  would  be  to  help  on  mission  work 
in  those  regions,  even  more  than  it  could  have  done 
had  it  been  itself  a  Christian  mission.  It  would  have 
been  long  before  any  missionary  society  would  have 
had  sufficient  means  at  command  to  organize  and 
equip  such  an  expedition,  or  would  have  secured  a 
leader  whcjse  natural  character,  acquired  abilities,  and 
extraordinary  experience  fitted  him  so  well  for  the 
task.  Without  any  expense  or  trouble  to  missionary 
societies,  this  expedition  undertook  work  which  they 
rejoiced  to  have  done,  but  which  they  could  not 
themselves  have  attempted. 

The  following  letter  gives  Mr.  Stanley's  own  view 
of  his  second  mission  to  the  Congo  : 

"And  now  I  begin  another  mission  seriously  and 
deliberately,  with  a  grand  object  in  view.  I  am 
charged  to  open — and  keep  open,  if  possible — all 
such  districts  and  countries  as  I  may  explore  for  the 
benefit  of  the  commercial  world.  The  mission  is 
supported  by  a  philanthropic  socict)',  which  numbers 
noble-minded  men  of  several  nations.  It  is  not  a 
religious  society,  but  my  instructions  arc  entirely  of 
that  spirit.  No  violence  must  be  used,  and  wherever 
rejected,  the  mission  must  luithdratv  to  seek  another 
Held.  We  ha\c  abundant  means,  and  therefore  we 
are  to  purchase  the  \-er}-  atmosphere,  if  any  demands 
be  made  upon  us,  rather  than  violently  oppose  them. 
A  year's  trial  will  demonstrate  whether  progress  can 
be  made  and  tolerance  be  granted  under  this  new 
system.  In  some  regions  experience  tells  me  the 
plan  may  work  wonders.    God  grant  it  success  every- 


ITS  OBJECT  AND  ITS  MEANS.  55 


where !     I   have  fifteen  Europeans   and  a  couple  of 
hundred  natives  with  me." 

It  was  no  longer  a  question  of  merely  pushing  a 
way  through  cannibal  tribes  by  fire-arms  and  force, 
but  rather  one  of  winning  the  friendship  and  co- 
operation of  the  natives  of  the  country,  with  a  view 
to  peaceful  settlement  and  mutually  beneficial  com- 
merce. On  his  first  descent  of  the  great  river  the 
explorer  had  to  fight  his  way  through  hostile  tribes, 
strong  enough  to  have  annihilated  his  comparatively 
weak  expedition,  as — hardly  bestead  and  hungry, 
anxious  and  uncertain — he  pressed  on  through  an 
unknown  world.  In  these  later  voyages,  on  the  con- 
trary, he  was  at  leisure  and  at  ease  ;  his  object  was 
to  form  a  permanent  friendship  with  every  tribe  as 
he  passed  along,  and  to  plant  a  chain  of  stations  on 
the  banks  of  the  river  for  1,200  miles  into  the  interior. 
This  object  required  that  he  should  get  the  people  to 
understand  and  trust  the  white  man  as  their  friend. 
The  steamers  and  the  artillery  of  civilization  placed 
his  expedition  at  such  an  advantage,  that  opposition 
was  seen  to  be  useless,  and  was  consequently  scarcely 
attempted.  Interpreters  were  at  hand  to  conduct 
negotiations  and  obtain  information  ;  resources  were 
abundant,  and  as  a  result,  residence  was  peacefully 
effected,  even  among  the  cannibal  tribes  so  hostile  on 
the  former  occasion. 

In  some  senses  Stanley's  second  exploit  was 
greater  than  his  first.  True  he  did  not  stand  alone 
in  it,  as  he  had  done  previously,  but  his  part  in  the 
founding   of  the  CoNC.O  Free  State — a  group  of 


56  THE  FOUNDING   OF   T/IF 

countries  in  the  heart  <.A  Africa,  almost  as  extensive 
and  as  populous  as  the  United  States  of  America — 
was  a  larye  and  most  important  one,  and  it  may 
safely  be  said  that  without  his  aid  the  task  would 
never  have  been  accomplished. 

A  period  of  five  years,  from  1 879- 1884,  was 
devoted  to  this  i,freat  work,  which  consisted  of  two 
distinct  parts.  The  first,  or  African  section  of  it, 
comprised  the  period  of  labour,  exploration,  and 
discovery  in  the  Congo  Valley  ;  and  the  second,  or 
European  part,  was  the  great  and  successful  diplo- 
matic achievement  crowned  by  the  labours  of  the 
Berlin  Conference.^ 

The  African  part  of  the  work  began  in  Jul)-,  1879. 


'  The  Livingstone  Inland  Mission  had  been  for  a  year  and  a  half 
established  at  Pallaballa  before  the  expedition  arrived  at  Banana,  and 
as  its  operations  were  carried  on  at  first  exclusively  on  the  north  side 
of  the  river,  our  missionaries  on  the  south  side  saw  and  knew  very 
little  of  it  for  the  first  year  or  two. 

We  thought  then,  and  think  still,  that  Stanley's  choice  of  the  north 
bank  was  a  mistake,  and  that  his  usual  sagacity  was  at  fault  in  this 
case.  Much  needless  labour  and  expense  were  incurred  in  consecjucnce. 
The  north  bank  of  the  river  presents  far  more  serious  impediments  to 
travel,  and  has  fewer  resources  in  food  and  in  carriers  than  the  south. 
Experience  has  demonstrated  that  the  southern  route  is  the  better,  as 
it  is  now  used  almost  exclusively  by  travellers,  and  the  railroad  shortly 
to  be  constructed  will  take  the  same  course.  The  "  road  "  on  the 
north  side,  opened  at  heavy  expense  of  life,  labour,  and  money,  was 
abandoned,  and  the  capital  stations  constructed  at  such  heavy  cost  by 
the  "  Comite  d'Ktudcs"  had  to  be  transferred  to  the  south  side.  The 
English  Baptist  Mission  moved  over  their  stations  also ;  and  at  the 
Berlin  Conference  the  north  bank — above  Manyanga — was  surrendered 
to  France. 

Bishop  Taylor's  stations  are  mostly  on  the  north  side,  and  the  Swedish 
Mission  has  also  two  opposite  Mukimbungu. 


CONGO  FREE  STATE. 


57 


From  August,  1S79,  to  July,  18S4,  it  consisted  in  a 
struggle  against  the  physical  difficulties  of  the  Congo 
region.  The  first  tzvo  years  were  spent  in  clearing 
and  making  a  road  over  very  difficult,  rocky  ground 
in  a  gorge  naturally  poor  and  barren,  and  not  very 
populous  ;  and  in  carrying  up  by  this  road  thousands 
of  tons  weight  of  materials,  stores,  tools,  sections  of 
steamers,  luggage,  provisions,  and  barter  goods  ;  and 
also  in  building  four  stations  in  the  Cataract  Region. 
Not  till  this  was  accomplished  could  the  expedition 
continue  its  work  in  the  interior. 


A   CONGO   CARAVAN. 


58  MR.   STANLEY  AT  DEATIVS  DOOR. 

The  base  station  was  formed  near  the  falls  of  Yel- 
lala,  at  a  villajrc  called  Vivi  ;  the  next  at  Isangila, 
reached  b)'  land  ;  the  third  at  Manyan^a,  reached  by 
the  river  ;  and  the  fourth  at  Stanley  Pool.  This  was 
in  some  senses  the  hardest  part  of  the  undertaking, 
and  involved  tw<j  years  of  the  rou^diest  pioneerinfj 
work, — work  which  few  men  living  could  have 
accomplished  as  successfully  as  Mr.  Stanley  did. 

In  spite  of  a  dangerous  amount  of  exposure  and 
fatigue,  his  life  and  health  were  wonderfully  preserved 
He  suffered  from  one  very  nearly  fatal  fever  at  Man- 
yanga  in  May,  1881.  After  relapses  extending  over 
many  weeks,  he  had  become  so  weak  and  exhausted 
that  he  thought  he  was  dying.  His  doses  of  quinine 
rose  to  fifty  and  even  sixty  grain.s,  and  their  potent 
effect  corrected  the  fever  at  last,  leaving  him  too  weak 
even  to  express  his  last  wishes.  His  people  were 
gathered  round  his  couch  to  receive,  as  they  thought, 
his  d}"ing  words — his  European  comrades  waiting 
anxiously  for  his  last  instructions  ;  he  struggled  hard 
to  recall  his  fleeting  senses  and  concentrate  his  mind 
for  the  final  charge.  In  vain !  Faintness,  uncon- 
sciousness shut  out  the  scene,  and  the  oblivion  lasted 
many  hours,  merging  afterwards  into  sleep.  When 
he  awoke  he  was  a  saved  man  !  Feeble  as  an  infant, 
ravenously  hungr}-,  he  began  to  recover,  but  recovery 
was  a  long  and  tedious  process.  "  I  was  at  this  time," 
he  says,  "  only  100  lbs.  in  weight  ;  my  limbs  were 
mere  sticks  supporting  a  feeble,  weak  bod)',  to  which 
the  few  paces  from  the  bed  to  the  chair  appeared  an 
immense  labour.'' 


THE  FOUNDING   OF  I.EOPOLDVILLE.  59 


Health  and  strength  however  gradually  returned, 
and  "Bula  Matari,"  '  the  breaker  of  rocks,  plunged 
once  more  into  the  arduous  and  unceasing  labours 
involved  in  his  enterprise. 

It  was  in  December,  18S1,  that  the  first  goal  of  the 
expedition  was  reached,  and  a  station — to  which  the 
name  of  Leopoldvillc  was  given — founded  on  the 
Upper  Congo,  on  the  southern  shores  of  Stanley 
Pool, — the  northern  being  already  claimed  by  the 
French,  as  their  representative,  Count  de  Brazza,  had 
reached  that  point  by  the  Ogowe,  in  the  interval 
since  Stanley's  first  visit.  Much  trouble  was  caused 
by  a  native  chief  called  Ngalyema,  a  vain,  foolish, 
covetous,  but  withal  clever  fellow,  whom  it  required 
no  small  tact  and  skill  to  manage.  He  was  won  to 
good  behaviour  at  last,  though  only  after  months  of 
patient  manoeuvring.  The  other  chiefs  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood were  friendly,  and  a  site  on  a  hill  was 
selected  for  the  station.  Three  months  were  spent 
in  making  local  political  arrangements,  and  in  laying 
out,  building,  and  stocking  this  station,  destined  to 
be  the  terminus  of  the  road  through  the  cataract 
region,  and  the  starting-point  of  the  navigation  of  the 
upper  river.  A  little  steamer,  the  En  Avant,  had 
been  prepared,  w'hich  with  a  whaleboat  and  two  large 
canoes  formed  the  little  flotilla  with  which  this  easier 
and  pleasanter  part  of  the  enterprise  was  attempted. 

*  "  Bula  IMatari,"  or  the  breaker  of  rocks,  was  the  name  given  to  Mr. 
■  .Stanley  by  the  natives  of  Vivi  when  he  was  making  his  first  road  to 
Stanley  Pool.     Sec  "The  Congo  and  the  Founding  of  its  Free  State," 
vol.  i.,  p.  237. 


6o  A   CONGO  C AND  ACE. 

From  Li:oroLi)\  ili.i:  to  thi;  Ui  tlr  Rivkk. 

The  narrow  and  picturesque  gor^e  of  the  Congo 
continues  for  sixty-four  miles  above  the  lakcHke 
enlargement  of  the  river  known  as  Stanley  Pool. 
The  banks  present  richly  wooded  valleys  and  hills, 
about  600  feet  high.  The  width  of  the  river  in  this 
part  is  about  1,500  yards,  and  tiie  population  is 
scanty,  the  natives  having  probably  learned  from 
experience  the  dangers  to  health  encountered  in  the 
gorge  of  the  river,  up  which  cool  and  treacherous 
winds  blow  dail\'. 

The  first  station  formed  was  at  Mswata,  a  native 
town  situated  about  twelve  miles  below  the  confluence 
of  the  Kwa  River  with  the  Congo.  This  is  a  most 
important  point,  though  its  full  value  was  not  known 
at  the  time  of  which  we  speak.  An  immense  system 
of  inland  rivers,  including  the  Kasai  and  the  Sankulu, 
join  the  Congo  near  this  point.  Lieut.  Janssen  was 
left  in  charge  here,  and  was  cordially  adopted  by 
the  stout  old  native  chief  Gobila  as  his  "  white 
chicken."  A  good  house  was  soon  erected,  and,  all 
promising  well,  Stanley  returned  to  Leopoldvilic  to 
fetch  up  the  men  and  the  goods  to  found  the  sixth 
station  farther  on. 

He  then  made  an  exploration  up  the  Kwa  River, 
encountering  a  fine,  commanding,  imperious  native 
queen,  named  Gankabi,  five  feet  seven  or  eight  in 
height,  sturdy,  square-shouldered,  substantial  in  form, 
bronze  in  colour,  not  negroid  in  countenance,  austere, 
fixed,  resolute,  earnest-c)'ed,  an  unusual  specimen  of 


FlF^^^l^^^^^np*~^^^^^c^^^p 


'>'i/^i.>^  ■ 


A   CENTRAL   AFRICAN    QUEEN. 
6i 


63  HOME    TO   EUROrE. 


an  African  woman,  such  another  perhaps  as  Candace, 
queen  of  the  l-'thiopians. 

There  was  a  scarcity  of  fuel  for  the  steamers  in  this 
river,  and  some  of  the  towns  were  inch'ned  to  be 
hostile  ;  but  the  travellers  passed  on  as  far  as  Musye, 
where  they  unfortunately  selected  the  less  important 
of  the  two  branches  of  the  river  which  there  presented 
themselves,  and  so  missed  the  discovery  of  the  longest 
and  most  important  tributary  of  the  Congo — the 
Kasai — which  falls  into  the  Kwa  at  this  point.  The 
branch  which  thcj-  ascended  led  them  into  a  lake  of 
800  square  miles,  which  they  circumnavigated,  and 
named  Lake  Leopold  II. 

Scarcity  of  food,  exposure,  and  anxiety  again  laid 
Stanley  low  at  this  point  with  dangerous  fever,  and 
obliged  his  immediate  return  to  the  Pool.  A  severe 
attack  of  gastritis  followed  the  fever,  dropsical 
symptoms  also  appeared,  and  it  was  evident  that 
nothing  short  of  leaving  the  country  was  likely  to 
restore  an  exhausted  constitution.  In  July,  1882, 
therefore,  after  three  }'cars  of  stupendous  toil,  the 
explorer  was  taken  in  a  feeble  and  suffering  condition 
to  St.  Paul  de  Loando,  and  by  October,  1S82,  he  was 
reporting  himself  at  lirussels,  and  considering  with 
the  "  Comite"  the  future  of  the  great  enterprise. 

Five  stations  had  been  constructed,  and  a  steamer 
and  a  sailing-boat  launched  on  the  Upper  Congo. 
Stanley  urged  that  all  was  of  no  practical  use  unless 
a  railroad  were  made  past  the  cataracts,  and  unless 
some  righteous  government  were  introduced  into  the 
country.     With  a  view  to  this  latter,  it  was  felt  that 


BACK  TO  AFRICA, 


the  \\'ork  done  needed  consolidation,  by  obtaining 
concessions  of  their  authority  from  all  the  petty  chiefs 
along  the  river,  and  thus  obtaining  such  rights  in  the 
countr}-  as  might  prevent  others  from  undoing  the 
work  that  had  been  done,  by  "  annexing  "  these  newly 
opened  lands,  and  governing  them  (as  Portugal 
governs  her  colonies)  for  their  own  benefit  and  not  for 
the  good  of  the  natives.  It  was  felt  that  in  order  to 
develop  commerce  trade  must  be  free  and  all  nations 
welcome  to  settle  and  work  in  the  country,  and  that 
above  all  slavery  must  be  strictly  prohibited.  The 
King  and  "Comite"  fully  agreed  in  these  views,  and, 
promising  all  the  financial  and  material  help  needed, 
wished  Stanley  to  return  as  early  as  possible,  and  com- 
plete his  task  by  planting  stations  as  far  as  the  Equa- 
torial Falls,  1,200  miles  from  the  coast,  and  acquiring 
by  purchase  and  by  treaty  the  needful  political  rights. 

His  stay  in  Europe  was  consequently  a  very  brief 
and  a  very  busy  one.  He  sailed  again  in  a  specially 
chartered  steamer,  with  fourteen  officers  and  600  tons 
of  goods,  and  reached  Banana  once  more  on  the  14th 
of  December,  1882,  having  been  absent  altogether 
five  months  from  the  expedition,  though  six  weeks 
only  of  the  time  had  been  spent  in  Europe. 

Trouble  and  disappointment — which  seem  as  indi- 
genous on  the  Congo  as  fevers — met  the  explorer  at 
every  step  on  his  second  journey  up  the  river  ;  but  by 
dint  of  his  tact,  wisdom,  patience,  decision,  and  energy, 
all  was  soon  restored  to  working  order,  and  in  April, 
1883,  he  was  in  a  position  to  start  once  more  from 
Leopoldvillc  for  the  upper  ri\-er. 


WHAT  STATION-PLANTING  INVOLVES.  65 

A  well  equipped  expedition  of  eighty  men,  with 
about  six  tons  of  most  carefully  selected  material, 
consisting  of  every  necessary  for  the  founding  of  two 
more  stations,  was  organized.  It  may  give  some  idea 
of  what  the  fitting  out  of  a  Congo  party  involves,  if 
we  quote  Stanley's  account  of  the  equipment  of  this 
expedition. 

We  have  axes  for  them  to  liew  the  forest,  liammers  to  break  the 
rock,  spades  to  turn  up  the  sod  and  to  drahi  the  marsh,  shovels  to  raise 
the  rampart,  scythes  to  mow  the  grass,  hatchets  to  penetrate  the  jungle, 
and  seeds  of  all  kinds  for  sowing.  Saws  to  rip  planking,  and  hammers, 
nails,  and  cabinet-makers'  tools  to  make  furniture  ;  needles  and  thread 
for  sewing  all  the  cloth  in  their  bales,  twine  to  string  their  beads  ; 
and  besides  these  useful  articles  in  the  cases,  there  are  also  countless 
'  notions  '  and  fancy  knick-knacks  to  appease  the  cupidity  of  the  most 
powerful  chief  or  excite  the  desire  for  adornment  in  the  breast  of 
■woman.  Nor  has  the  white  man  been  neglected  ;  there  is  enough  for 
him  to  eat  and  grow  fat  upon  while  in  good  health,  and  enough  medi- 
cine to  cure  a  hundred  fevers  for  each.  It  were  well  that  these  things 
should  be  told  perhaps  once  in  a  while  to  the  reader,  that  he  may  have 
a  sensible  idea  of  what  planting  stations  in  distant  places  really  means. 
These  articles  were  not  thrown  promiscuously  into  the  boats  ;  a  due  and 
equitable  proportion  of  each  had  to  be  calculated  and  measured  out  per 
head  of  white  and  black  per  month,  otherwise  turmoil  and  peevish  dis- 
content were  certain  to  be  heard  in  a  very  short  time. 

At  the  Alswata  Station  Lieut.  Janssen  was  found 
well,  after  thirteen  months'  residence,  and  the  town 
had  grown  considerably  since  his  settlement,  contain- 
ing some  1,500  people.  The  flotilla  then  passed  out 
of  the  Congo  gorge  into  the  broad  expanses  of  the 
upper  river,  and  the  following  extracts  give  Stanley's 
opinion  of  the  Upper  Congo  and  its  commercial 
worth  : 

"  On  passing    Rocky  Point  and    emerging  in  view  of  tliis    broader 
C.  A.  5 


66  EQUATORIAL  AFRICA'S  REAL  HEART. 


width,  we  may  l)c  said  tu  liave  entered  fairly  on  the  Upi)er  Congo. 
Hitherto  we  liave  been  voyaging,  since  leaving  lioma  and  the  estuary- 
like breadth  of  the  Lower  Congo,  ///  a  f>ass  or  d(fiU.  ,  .  .  The 
real  heart  of  eijuatorial  Africa  is  this  central  fertile  region,  whose 
unparalleled  richness  will  repay  the  toil  and  labour  required  to  bring 
it  w  ithin  the  reach  of  Europe. 

"It  was  not  the  uplands  of  the  maritime  region,  with  their  millions 
of  ravines,  with  their  narrow,  oven-hot  valleys,  and  bald  grxss  top>, 
with  their  limited  bits  of  grassy  plateaux,  with  here  and  there  a  grove 
of  jungly  forest  scattered  like  islets  amid  the  grassy  wastes,  that  I 
strove  for.  It  was  this  million  square  miles  of  almost  level  area, 
which  we  may  call  the  kernel,  that  was  wfirth  the  trouble  of  piercing 
235  miles  of  thick,  rude  mountain  husk,  which  separates  it  from  the 
energies  of  Europeans  who,  could  they  but  reach  //,  would  soon  teach 
the  world  what  good  might  come  out  of  Africa  ! 

"In  my  voyage  down  the  great  river  in  1877  I  h.id  but  a  dim  glimpse 
of  the  mainland.  To  escape  the  unaccountable  ferocity  which  then 
menaced  us  as  soon  as  we  came  in  sight  of  the  wild  men,  we  had  to 
seek  refuge  in  the  mazy  channels  between  the  islets.  Now  however 
our  mission  is  to  build  in  the  midst  of  these  wild  men  ;  but  Ijefore  we 
can  do  so  we  must  seek  for  them,  confront  them  calmly,  persuade 
them  to  hush  their  clamours,  soothe  their  unrpiiet  hearts,  ami  win 
them  to  gentle  ways  and  arts  of  peace. 

«  «  «  «  « 

"  I  rejoice  to  find  that  this  country  is  not  only  high  in  value,  but  that 
it  excels  all  other  known  lands  for  the  number  and  rare  variety  of 
precious  gifts  willi  whicli  nature  has  endowed  it. 

"Let  us  take  North  America,  for  instance,  and  the  richest  portion 
of  it,  viz.  the  Mississippi  basin,  to  compare  with  the  Congo  basin, 
previous  to  development  by  that  mixture  of  races  called  modern 
Americans.  ^Vhen  De  Soto  navigated  the  Father  of  Waters,  and  the 
Indians  were  undisputed  masters  of  the  ample  river  basin,  the  spirit 
of  enterprise  would  have  found  as  natural  productions  sof/ie  furs  and 
Umber. 

The  Congo  basin  is  however  much  more  promising  at  the  same 
stage  of  undevelopment.     The  forests  on  the  banks  of  the  Congo  are 


PRODUCTS   OF  THE   CONGO  BASJN.  67 


filled  with  precious  redwood,  U\;nnm  vita:,  mahogany,  and  fragrant 
gum  trees.  At  their  base  may  be  found  inexhaustible  quantities  of 
fossil  gum,  with  which  the  carriages  and  furniture  of  civilized  countries 
are  varnished  ;  the  boles  exude  myrrh  and  frankincense,  their  foliage 
is  draped  with  orchilla-weed,  useful  for  dye.  The  redwood,  when 
cut  down,  chipped,  rasped,  produces  a  deep  crimson  powder,  giving 
a  valuable  colouring  ;  the  creepers  which  hang  in  festoons  from  tree 
to  tree  are  generally  those  from  which  india-rubber  is  produced  (the 
best  of  which  is  worth  is,  per  lb.);  the  nuts  of  the  oil  pahn  give  forth 
a  butter,  a  staple  article  of  commerce,  while  the  fibres  of  others  will 
make  the  best  cordage.  Among  the  wild  shrubs  are  frequently  found 
the  coffee  plant.  In  its  plains,  jungle,  and  swamp  luxuriate  the 
elephants,  whose  teeth  furnish  ivory  worth  from  8s.  to  ii.f.  per  lb.  ; 
its  waters  teem  with  numberless  herds  of  hippopotami,  whose  tusks 
are  also  valuable  ;  furs  of  the  lion,  leopard,  monkey,  otter  ;  hides  of 
antelope,  buffalo,  goat,  cattle,  etc.,  may  also  be  obtained.  But  what 
is  of  far  more  value,  it  possesses  over  40,000,000  of  moderately 
industrious  and  workable  people,  which  the  Red  Indians  never  were. 
And  if  we  speak  of  prospective  advantages,  and  benefits  to  be  derived 
from  this  late  gift  of  nature,  they  are  not  much  inferior  in  number  or 
value  to  those  of  the  well-developed  Mississippi  valley.  The  copper 
of  Lake  Superior  is  rivalled  by  that  of  the  Kwilu-Xiadi  "S'alley  and 
of  Bemke.  Rice,  cotton,  tobacco,  maize,  coffee,  sugar,  and  wheat 
would  thrive  equally  well  on  the  broad  plains  of  the  Congo.  This 
is  only  known  after  the  most  superficial  examination  of  a  limited 
line,  which  is  not  much  over  fifty  miles  wide.  I  have  heard  of  gold 
and  silver,  but  this  statement  requires  further  corroboration,  and  I  am 
not  disposed  to  touch  upon  what  I  do  not  personally  know. 

"  For  climate,  the  Mississippi  valley  is  superior  ;  but  a  large  portion 
of  the  Congo  basin,  at  present  inaccessible  to  the  immigrant,  is  blessed 
with  a  temperature  under  '.i<hich  Europeans  inay  thrive  and  multiply. 
There  is  no  portion  of  it  where  the  European  trader  may  not  fix  his 
residence  for  years,  and  develop  commerce  to  his  own  profit,  with  as 
little  risk  as  is  incurred  in  India." 

Proceeding  still  eastwafds  along  the  great  water- 
way, the  expedition  noted  continual  proofs  of  the 
richness  of  the  country  in  natural  resources.  Ivor}- 
was  abundant,-  and  offered  at  exceedingly  low  prices, 
nor  was  it  the  only  valuable  product. 


6S       "/a'//-:a^/>s,  77//.';  /s  a  rich  country!" 

"  We  then  came  opposite  to  what  we  formerly  considered  to  be  the 
mouth  of  llie  Sankuiu  River,  l>iit  which  N'umhila,  our  guide,  declared 
lo  be  merely  a  channel.  We  ascendeil  by  it,  since  we  did  not  wi>h 
to  lose  sight  of  the  left  bank.  Here  we  tliscovered  that  a  valuai>le 
forest  of  gum-copal  trees  commenced,  the  tops  of  which  were  drape<l 
with  orchilla  weed.  A  general  burst  of  admiration  broke  ciut  from  the 
lips  of  the  Zanzibaris,  who  were  heard  to  exclaim, — 

'"  Ah,  friends,  this  is  a  rich  country  !  Copal  below,  and  enough 
orchilla  to  make  many  fortunes  on  the  lop  !  '  There  is  nothing  like 
this  ill  ('///•  country  !     And  just  look  at  the  rubber-bush  ! '  " 

lV)lobo,  Lukolcla,  ami  other  ijupiilous  nciL,Mibour- 
hoods  were  passed  without  attcmptiui^  any  settle- 
ment, as  the  natives  were  shy  and  distrustful.  The 
steamers  with  their  strange  noises  filled  them  with 
fear,  and  droxe  them  to  incantations  and  feti>h  cere- 
monies for  self-prescr\'ation. 

"  Despite  however  these  and  sundry  other  pre- 
cautions against  imaginary  evil,  the  people  were  not 
quite  satisfied  in  their  minds,  for  the  dreaded  Ibanza 
must  be  concealed,  they  thought,  in  our  boats. 
What  was  it  that  they  heard  throb  and  sigh  and 
groan  so  heavily  as  the  En  Avant  came  alongside 
their  landing-place  ?  They  ranged  themselves  over 
and  above  the  boats,  lost  in  silent  contemplation  of 
the  wonderful  structures.  Their  thoughts  struggling 
for  utterance  were  perplexing,  and  prevented  the 
usual  glib  and  noisy  interchange  of  ideas.  The 
problems  they  have  to  resolve  are  weighty  and  diffi- 
cult, they  know  of  nothing  to  which  the)'  can  com- 
pare the  medley  of  strange  noises  issuing  from  the 

1  Gum-copal  is  worth  £'^  a  cwt.  in  Liverpool, "and  orchilla  weed 
£2  loj.  per  cwl. 


AX    Uri'KU    CON(.U    lIO.Mli. 


huge  iron  pots  which  hiss  incessantly.  What  unseen 
power  was  it  that  revolved  the  wheels  they  saw  fly 
around  with  lightning  speed  ?  What  does  that  iron 
drum  contain  ?  Why  is  that  white  cook  throwing  in 
such  large  sticks?  Does  the  Ibanza  eat  wood?  Is 
the  Ibanza  cooped  up  in  the  iron  drum  ?  Who 
makes  that  squeaking  noise  escaping  out  of  the 
funnel?  These  and  such-like  thoughts  trouble  the 
minds  of  the  aborigines  of  Bumba,  so  that  little  trade 
for  food  can  be  made,  though  it  is  plentiful  and  cheap, 
"  Later  on  bananas,  goats,  chickens,  sugar-cane, 
tobacco,    pumpkins,    sweet    potatoes,    and    )\'ims    are 

69 


70    «'  THESE    WHITE  MEN  AKE   OUR  BROTHERS:' 


freely  sold,  altlKHi^di  the  multitude  is  flij^fhty  and 
prone  to  panic,  which  causes  the  two  chiefs,  Myombi 
and  Sun^ro  Maji,  to  be  rushing  about,  cryinj^^  out, 
'  Peace,  O  people  !  sell  your  produce  in  security ! 
these  white  men  are  our  brothers,  by  every  bond 
that  can  bind  us  ! '  With  all  these  hearty  efforts  to 
impress  their  people  with  confidence  h(jwcvcr,  the 
slightest  rush  of  steam,  a  movement  of  a  white  man, 
the  impatient  lifting  of  a  helmet  off  the  brow  and 
scratching  the  heated  head,  would  send  hundreds 
promiscuously  flying  like  a  herd  of  frightened  buffalo. 
Sacred  water  was  sprinkled  along  the  shore  and  over 
the  trees  and  towards  the  boats  ;  the  long  handbell 
of  Sungo  Maji  was  vigorously  beaten,  and  old  men 
came  and  muttered  their  incantations  :  but  yet  there 
was  a  dread  of  the  Ibanza.  The  stifled  screams  of 
women  testified  to  a  presentiment  that  he  was 
present  ;  the  uneasy,  restless,  rolling  eyes  of  the 
men  searched  for  the  first  symptoms  that  he  was 
advancing  ;  the  cries  of  '  Be  firm,  O  men  of  liumba  ! 
there  is  nothing  to  fear,'  reiterated  over  and  over 
again  by  the  chiefs,  who  were  ringing  their  bells  like 
anxious  town-criers,  denoted  vivid  expectancy." 

Another  subject  of  discussion  among  the  people 
of  Irebu  was,  What  was  it  that  tiinud  the  paddle- 
zuheels  of  the  ''En  Avant'' ?  This  was  a  difficult 
puzzle  to  them.  Some  would  have  it  that  there 
were  about  twenty  men  concealed  somewhere  in  the 
bottom  of  the  steamer ;  others  doubted  that,  and 
hotly  maintained  that  the  secret  was  in  that  big 
pot  (boiler),  otherwise  why  should  the  cook  (engineer) 


AN   AFRICAN  HERCULES.  71 

be  always  near  it,  making  up  the  fire  inside?  But 
what  zvas  it  that  the  engineer  was  cooking  so  indus- 
triously ?     Ah  !  that  was  another  puzzle  ! 

"  Whatever  it  is,"  said  they,  "  it  takes  a  long  time 
to  cook  !  That  engineer  has  been  cooking  all  day, 
and  it  is  not  finished  yet !  It  must  be  a  strong 
medicine  that,  and  all  that  large  pile  of  wood  has 
been  used  up.  The  two  other  boats  have  similar 
pots  into  which  their  cooks  shove  in  fuel  continually ! 
Perhaps  if  we  had  also  big  pots  in  our  canoes,  and 
some  of  the  white  man's  medicine,  we  need  not  toil 
any  more  with  tired  arms  at  our  paddles,  and  suffer 
from  aches  and  pains  in  our  shoulders  \ " 

A  station  was  planted  at  Wangata  on  the  equa- 
to*"*  757  miles  from  the  sea,  and  passing  on,  the 
expedition  found  itself,  in  October,  1883,  among  the 
warlike  Bangala  tribes,  which  had  so  resolutely 
fought  Stanley  on  his  first  descent  of  the  river  in 
1877.  Their  settlement  of  Iboko  is  so  extensive,  that 
it  took  seven  hours  of  steady  steaming  to  pass  it  by. 
The  chief,  Mata  Bwyki  (Lord  of  Many  Guns),  is  a 
fine  old  Hercules  of  six  feet  two  in  height,  and  of 
stentorian  voice,  with  a  splendid  figure  and  an  ex- 
pression of  power  in  the  face. 

He  hesitated  a  good  deal  at  first  as  to  how  to  treat 
Stanley  and  his  followers ;  but  hearing  of  all  his 
good  deeds  lower  down  the  river  from  a  native  mem- 
ber of  the  force,  he  at  last  decided  for  peace,  and  the 
ceremony  of  blood-brotherhood  having  been  duly 
performed,  he  "  lifted  his  mighty  form,  and  with  his 
long  giant's  staff  drove  back  the  compressed  crowd, 


MATA    BWYKI  AND   HIS    VOICE. 


AN    IMLiaiKW    Willi    A    NATIVE    CllIKF   AT    WANGATA    STATluN. 

clearing  a  wide  circle,  and  then  roaring  out  in  his 
most  magnificent  style,  leonine  in  its  lung  force, 
kingly  in  its  effect, — - 

" '  People  of  Iboko,  you  by  the  river  side,  and  you 
of  inland — men  of  the  Bangala,  listen  to  the  words 
of  Mata  15\vyki.  You  see  Tandclay  before  you.  Mis 
other  name  is  Bula  Matari.  He  is  the  man  with  the 
many  canoes,  and  has  brought   back  strange  smoke- 


STANLEY  FALLS.  73 


boats.  He  has  come  to  see  Mata  Bwyki.  He  has 
asked  Mata  B\v}-ki  to  be  his  friend  Mata  Bwyki 
has  taken  him  by  the  hand  and  has  become  his 
blood-brother.  Tandelay  belongs  to  Iboko  now.  He 
has  become  this  day  one  of  the  Bangala.  O  Iboko, 
listen  to  the  voice  of  Mata  Bwyki.'  (I  thought  they 
must  have  been  incurably  deaf  not  to  have  heard 
that  voice.) 

" '  Bula  Matari  and  Mata  Bwyki  are  one  to-day. 
We  have  joined  hands.  Hurt  not  Bula  Matari's 
people  ;  steal  not  from  them,  offend  them  not.  Bring 
your  produce  and  barter  with  him.  Bring  food  and 
sell  to  him  at  a  fair  price,  gently,  kindly,  and  in 
peace,  for  he  is  my  brother.  Hear  you,  yc  people 
of  Iboko — you  by  the  river-side,  and  you  of  the 
interior  ? ' 

" '  We  hear,  Mata  Bwyki,'  shouted  the  multitude." 
The  voyage  on  the  upper  river  extended  as  far 
as  the  second  series  of  cataracts  which  intcrupt  the 
navigation  of  the  Congo  and  which  are  called  the 
Stanley  Falls.  Here  the  ravages  of  the  Arab  slave- 
traders,  who  had  partly  desolated  this  region,  came 
into  view.  We  shall  speak  of  these  more  fully  else- 
where. While  abhorring  their  conduct,  Stanley  was 
in  no  position  at  this  time  to  oppose  or  punish  them. 
He  had  to  make  friends,  and  a  station  was  planted 
on  the  island  of  Wana  Rusari,  among  the  Wcnya 
fishermen  of  the  falls,  in  December,  1883.  A  brave 
young  engineer  named  Binnie — a  little  Scotchman, 
five  feet  three  in  height,  but  "  possessed  of  a  superior 
and   firm   soul,   that   wcnild   carr)'   him    through    any 


74  A   BRAVE  SCOTCHMAN: 

physical  weakness," — vt^luiitccrcd  U)  be  left  here  alone 
among  savages  and  Arabs,  twenty  da)-.^'  journey 
from  the  nearest  station,  and  doomed  to  at  least  six 
months'  com[jlctc  iscjjation  from  the  civilized  world. 
A  critical  position,  but  one  loyally  accepted  for  the 
work's  sake,  and,  as  was  proved  subsecjuentl}',  nobly 
used.     Mr.  Stanley  sa}-s  : 

"  W'c  cleared  alxnit  four  acres  of  ground,  and  conslrucled  a<UvelIing- 
place  for  him  ;  furnished  him  with  tools,  axes,  hoes,  hammers,  and 
nails,  gave  him  provisions  of  wheat,  flour,  meat,  coffee,  tea,  choco- 
late, sugar,  milk,  soups,  jam,  butter,  potatoes,  bacon,  lard,  sauce, 
tapioca,  vinegar,  and  brandy,  and  candles ;  and  stocked  his  goods' 
store  with  cloth  of  various  kinds,  beads  of  many  colours,  cowries, 
brass  wire,  rings,  wristlets,  and  anklets,  tin  plates,  and  mugs,  and 
pans.  Leaving  him  with  thirty-one  armed  men — soldier-labourers — 
and  a  plentiful  reserve  of  ammunition,  with  abundance  of  sage  advice 
to  be  prudent  and  just  in  his  government,  amiable  and  patient  in 
his  intercourse,  trustful  and  courageous,  we  committed  him  to  the 
care  of  I'rovidence,  and  on  the  loth  of  December  ^^e  turned  our 
faces  homewards,  leaving  the  little  man  all  alone  with  his  grave 
responsibilities.  .   .  . 

"But  on  the  steamer's  return  the  little  man  was  discovered  to  have 
done  nobly.  He  had  enlarged  his  possessions,  he  had  extended  his 
clearing,  and  built  an  entire  village  ;  he  had  been  planting  and  making 
gardens,  and  the  savage  natives  round  about  hiui  acknowledged  him  as 
their  friend.  Binnic  was  the  umpire  in  all  arguments,  the  arbiter  in 
all  political  controversies — in  short,  he  was  the  general  referee  in  all 
the  disputes  which  occurred  in  the  locality." 

The  character  of  the  natives  of  the  upper  river  is 
not  by  any  means  that  of  hopeless  degradation  and 
stupidity.  The  people  are  apparently  born  traders, 
and  with  guidance  and  direction  from  Europeans, 
and  the  assistance  of  European  capital  and  skill,  they 
are  likely  to  develop  into  a  successful  commercial 
communit\-. 


COMMERCIAL  GENIUS  OF  THE   CONGOESE.        75 

"  In  the  management  of  a  bargain,"  says  Stanley, 
"  I  should  back  the  Congoese  native  against  Jew  or 
Christian,  Parsee  or  Ban}'an,  in  all  the  round  world  ! 
Unthinking  men  may  perhaps  say  cleverness  at  bar- 
ter and  shrewdness  in  trade  consort  not  with  their 
unsophisticated  condition  and  degraded  customs. 
'  Unsophisticated '  is  the  very  last  term  I  should  e\"cr 
apply  to  an  African  child  or  man  in  connexion  with 
the  knowledge  of  how  to  trade.  Apply  the  term, 
if  you  please,  to  yourself,  or  to  a  Red  Indian,  but  it 
is  utterly  inapplicable  to  an  African,  and  this  is  my 
seventeenth  year  of  acquaintance  with  him.  I  have 
seen  a  child  of  eight  do  more  tricks  of  trade  in  an 
hour  than  the  cleverest  European  trader  on  the  Congo 
could  do  in  a  month.  There  is  a  little  boy  at  Bolobo, 
aged  six,  named  Lingenji,  who  would  make  more 
profit  out  of  a  pound's  worth  of  cloth  than  an  Eng- 
lish boy  of  fifteen  would  make  out  of  i^io  worth. 
Therefore  when  I  write  of  a  Congo  native,  whether 
he  is  of  the  Bakongo,  Bayanzi,  or  Bakete  tribes, 
remember  to  associate  with  him  an  almost  incon- 
ceivable amount  of  natural  shrewdness  and  power 
of  indomitable  and  untiring  chaffer." 

The  expedition  reached  Leopoldville  again  on  its 
return  journey  at  the  beginning  of  1884,  having  been 
absent  146  days  on  its  voyage  of  over  3,000  miles, 
and  after  introducing  his  successor,  Col.  Sir  Francis 
de  VVinton,  to  his  difficult  duties,  Mr.  Stanley  sailed 
for  Europe  in  June,  1884. 


LEOPOLD     n., 
KING      OF      THE      BELGIANS, 

KOUNDEK   OF   THE  CONGO   FKEE  STATE. 


76 


CHAPTER    IV. 
THE  BERLIN  CONFERENCE. 

One-half  of  the  great  task  voluntarily  assumed  by 
the  Comite  d'Etudes  du  Haut  Congo,  which  had  by 
that  tirae  merged  into  "'  the  African  International 
Association,"  was  now  completed.  The  possibility  of 
profitable  intercourse  between  Europe  and  Central 
Africa  had  been  demonstrated.  The  veil  of  dense 
obscurity  had  been  lifted  from  the  face  of  the  new 
world,  and  that  of  ignorance  about  Central  Africa 
from  the  minds  of  Europeans.  By  inquiries  on  the 
spot,  particulars  as  to  the  products  of  the  vast  regions 
watered  by  the  Congo  and  its  affluents,  their  prices 
on  the  spot  as  compared  with  their  prices  in  Liver- 
pool, the  willingness  and  ability  of  the  natives  to 
trade,  the  possibility  of  Europeans  residing  in  the 
interior,  the  conditions  of  health,  the  requirements 
of  transit,  the  political  relations  of  the  tribes,  had 
been  learned.  These  and  a  thousand  other  subjects 
had  been  fully  elucidated  by  actual  experiment,  and 
the  immense  importance  and  desirability  of  connect- 
ing the  basin  of  the  Congo  with  the  civilized  world 
had  been  made  abundantly  clear. 

It    had    been    proved    that,  judging    by  the    West 
African  trade  already  in  existence,  which  amounted 


78  EUROPE'S  NEED   OF  CENTRAL  AFRICA. 


even  then  to  thirty-two  millions  sterlinf^,  the  trade 
of  the  Concho  basin,  if  it  were  placed  in  cominunica- 
tion  with  the  ocean  h)-  a  short  raih'oad,  would  be 
likely  to  amount  to  fifty  millions  in  a  very  few  )'ears, 
and  the  trade  of  the  whole  of  Central  Africa  to  tu(j 
hundred  and  forty  millions  (i^ 2 40,000,000). 

These  were  not  random  guesses,  but  figures  arri\-ed 
at  by  accurate  calculation  on  the  basis  of  existing 
facts.  And,  further,  it  had  been  proved  that  the  total 
sum  required  to  develop  this  enormous  trade  was 
comparatively  small,  only  about  three  and  a  half 
millions ! 

From  the  statesman's  point  of  view  therefore,  as 
well  as  from  that  of  the  philanthropist,  it  was  clear 
that  luu'ope  should  open  up  Africa.  The  old  and 
overcrowded  countries  needed  nothing  so  much  as  a 
new  and  large  market.  Here  was  one  \\hich  they 
could  never  supply  sufficiently  for  man)-  a  }-ear. 

The  next  great  undertaking  was  to  secure,  if  pos- 
sible, for  the  vast  regions  of  Central  Africa  which  had 
been  so  patiently  and  successfully  explored  good 
government  and  all  the  blessings  that  follow  in  its 
train.  It  was  needful  to  protect  them  from  the 
ravages  of  war  and  of  the  slave  trade ;  to  guarantee 
the  commerce  of  the  future  from  destructive  or  even 
detrimental  imposts ;  to  secure  perfect  freedom  for 
person  and  property,  for  religion  and  trade  ;  and  to 
obtain  a  European  charter  that  these  priceless  privi- 
leges should  never  be  interfered  with  b\'  an}'  civili/.ed 
power. 

The  object  aimed  at  in  all  the  previous  proceedings 


A'lXG    lEOrOlD  II,    OF  BELGIUM, 


n 


by  the  philanthropic  and  generous  monarch  who  had 
instigated  them,  and  borne  out  of  his  priv^ate  purse  their 
enormous  expense,  was  not  the  territorial  aggrandise- 
ment of  Belgium,  nor  an}'  other  selfish  and  personal 
aim.  Seldom  has  a  great  and  costly  enterprise  been 
carried  out  by  any  nation,  much  less  by  any  indivi- 
dual, from  motives  so  purely  unselfish  and  noble. 
Leopold  of  Belgium  was  fired  with  a  noble  ambition. 
He  aspired  to  be  the  benefactor  of  the  Dark  Con- 
tinent, a  helper  of  the  helpless,  a  protector  of  the 
weak,  a  shield  to  the  defenceless.  Central  Africa  had 
been  revealed  in  all  its  naked  savagery,  in  all  its 
defenceless    barbarism.     Were   its  swarthy  sons  and 


So  ly/i.ir  ly.ts  to  become  oe  the  new  world. 


dau<^htcrs  to  be  victimised  as  their  brethren  of  tlie 
West  Coast  had  been  ?  Were  tlicy  to  be  enslaved  by 
the  Arabs  for  the  sake  of  the  ivory  of  their  elephants, 
as  the  ICast  Coast  tribes  had  been,  and  as  the  more 
central  tribes  were  already  being  enslaved  ?  Were 
the  stronL^'cr  and  mcjre  civilized  races  to  oppress  and 
crush  and  extirpate  the  weaker  and  less  civilized,  as, 
they  had,  alas  !  so  often  before  done  in  the  history 
of  mankind  ?  Was  poor  Africa,  when  at  last  its  long 
night  of  isolation  was  over,  and  explorers  had  without 
its  consent  introduced  it  to  the  civilized  world — was  it 
to  be  exploited  for  the  benefit  of  others,  or  developed 
for  its  own  good  as  well  ? 

The  unprincipled  selfishness  of  trade  had  been 
amply  illustrated  by  the  old  slave-trade,  by  the 
Portuguese  government  of  Angola,  above  all,  by  the 
cruelties  of  the  Arab  slave-raiders,  from  Eg)'pt  to 
Ouillimanc,  and  from  Zanzibar  to  Stanley  Falls. 
Was  the  vast  new  territory,  for  the  knowledge  of 
which  the  world  was  indebted  to  Stanley  and  King 
Leopold,  was  //  too  to  have  its  soil  watered  with  the 
blood  of  its  own  sons  and  daughters,  its  air  filled 
with  their  cries  and  groans  under  the  slave  yoke  and 
the  slave  whip — its  roads  marked  by  their  bleach- 
ing bones,  until  at  last  it  should  become  depopulated 
and  half  desert,  as  many  of  the  Eastern  districts  had 
already  become  ?  Were  a  handful  of  Moslem  tyrants 
on  the  East,  and  a  shoal  of  selfish  rum-selling  traders 
of  various  nationalities,  to  reap  all  the  benefit  of  the 
discoveries  made  b)-  noble  men  at  the  cost  of  so 
much  life  and  treasure?     It  must  not  be! 


82  THE  CONGO  FREE  STATE. 


Yet  thLic  was  a  tlaiiL^fcr  of  it,  nay,  there  was  a 
certainty  of  it,  unless /^Tt't'/' united  to  humanity  and 
Christian  principle  stepped  in  to  prevent.  Human 
nature  is  selfish.  Central  Africa  would  become  a 
prey,  and  mij^ht  yet  have  cause  to  rue  the  da>'  w  hen 
Stanley  descended  the  Congo  ! 

Tiie  crisis  was  a  serious  and  difficult  one.  /Mready 
Portugal  was  advancing  the  most  baseless  claims  to 
authority  over  the  Congo,  and  what  her  rule  does  for 
Africa  is  sufficiently  evidenced  by  the  wretched  quw- 
dition  of  her  colonies  both  on  the  east  and  on  the 
west  coasts  of  the  Dark  Continent.^  France,  in  right 
of  Dc  Brazza's  discoveries  on  the  Ogowe,  was  also 
asserting  rights  to  wide  dominion.  As  usual  she  was 
ambitious,  touchy,  and  very  resolute ;  Portugal  was 
proud  and  obstinate,  and  could  not  for  a  long  time  be 
made  to  see  the  unreasonable  nature  of  her  demands 
to  be  recognised  as  sovereign  over  territories  she  had 
never  even  seen  or  entered.- 

'  See  p.  93  et  seq. 

-  England  stood  decidedly  aloof  at  i/mt  time,  unwisely  as  it  seemed 
to  many  of  us,  from  any  participation  in  the  responsibilities  of  the 
new  world.  Though  Livingstone,  Burton,  Speke,  Grant,  Stanley, 
Cameron,  and  Gordon,  as  well  as  a  hundred  Protestant  missionaries, 
who  had  lived  and  laboured  in  the  region,  were  all  English,  yet  Eng- 
land's only  national  interest  in  the  Berlin  Conference  was  to  secure 
her  influence  in  the  Niger  country.  Our  Government  considered  our 
colonies  extensive  enough  already,  and  had  no  ambition  to  assume  any 
further  responsibilities  in  Western  or  Central  Africa.  The  same  policy 
which  dictated  the  surrender  of  the  Egyptian  Soudan  and  of  the  hero 
of  Khartoum  dictated  also  the  refusal  to  take  any  advantage  of  Stanley's 
great  discovery,  in  the  first  place,  and  the  decision  to  undertake  no 
responsibility,  in  the  second.  We  say  nothing  as  to  the  wisdom  of  this 
course.    We  are  not  competent  judges.    Yet  we  cannot  but  remember 


rORTUGAHS  POSITION.  83 

Belgium  did  not  want  for  itself  African  territory, 
but  Africa  wanted  Belgium  !  Its  generous  monarch 
wanted  to  secure  good  government  and  protection  for 
the  Africans,  and  a  right  for  all  nations  to  trade  freely 
with  this  large  and  long  isolated  and  consequently 
poor  though  rich  world.  He  had  nobly  won  a  position 
which  justified  him  in  demanding  this.  He  presented 
the  International  Association  to  the  Berlin  Conference 
in  possession  of  four  hundred  and  fifty  treaties  made 
with  African  "  kings,"  who  had  for  substantial  con- 
siderations transferred  to  it  their  rights  of  sovereignty 
Combining  these  into  one  concrete  whole,  the  Asso- 
ciation very  properly  asked  for  recognition  of  its 
right  to  govern  the  territory  thus  acquired,  as  a  free 
state  constituted  by  international  law. 

The  United  States  of  America  were  the  first  great 
nation  to  recognise  the  Congo  Free  State,  but  at  the 
Berlin  Conference  all  the  other  great  powers  did  the 
same.  Portugal  alone  stood  out.  But  at  last,  on  the 
14th  of  February,  1885,  this  difficulty  was  overcome, 
and  Portugal  joined  the  other  powers  of  Christendom 
in   reco^nisincr  the  ^African  International  Association 


that  Banana  is  only  three  weeks'  sail  from  London,  and  that  hundreds 
of  millions  of  English  capital  lie  idle  for  lack  of  investments,  and  that 
never  could  a  Protestant  nation  have  had  a  nobler  chance  of  benefiting 
millions  of  men  by  simply  governing  them  for  their  own  good,  as  we 
govern  India.  We  had  the  men,  we  had  the  money,  we  had  the  chance 
offered  first  to  us.  We  declined  it,  and  left  the  post  of  honour — true 
honour — the  office  of  benefactor  of  the  new  world,  to  Catholic  Belgium. 
Perhaps  it  was  expedient.  The  Niger  is  a  great  river,  and  if  we  cannot 
preserve  it  and  our  other  West  Coast  colonies  from  the  drink  curse,  we 
are  certainly  unfit  for  larger  responsibilitiess 


84  THE   FIRST  KING   OF   THE   FREE  STATE. 

as  the  sovcrciy;n  power  on  the  Congo.  She  signed 
a  treaty  resigning  all  pretensions  to  the  right  bank 
of  the  river,  including  IJanana  and  Homa,  as  well  as 
to  the  left  bank  of  the  river  abcne  Xokki.  She  also 
willulrew  all  claim  to  the  Atlantic  coast-line  from 
ikuiana  to  a  place  called  Yabe,  thus  giving  to  the 
Association  thirty-eight  miles  of  coast-line,  to  which 
they  had  always  laid  claim.  On  the  other  hand, 
the  Association  resigned  all  pretensions  to  Kabinda, 
Landana,  and  the  surrounding  country,  and  the  south 
bank  of  the  river  up  to  Nokki,  in  favour  of  Portugal. 

It  had  previously  made  to  France  also  large  con- 
cessions, some  of  which  should  not  in  right  have 
been  required.  The  accompanying  map  indicates  the 
relative  positions  of  the  I-^cnch,  Portuguese,  and 
Congo  Free  State  territories. 

The  adhesion  of  Portugal  to  the  plan  of  ICuropc 
terminated  the  difficulties  which  stood  in  the  way  of 
the  recognition  of  the  Congo  Free  State,  and  per- 
mitted the  close  of  the  labours  of  the  Berlin  Con- 
ference. The  constitution  under  which  the  new 
state  was  to  be  governed  was  elaborated  by  diplo- 
matists ;  the  monarchical  form  was  selected,  as  under 
the  circumstances  the  most  suitable.  Brussels  had 
long  been  practically  the  seat  of  the  administration. 
It  now  became  the  seat  of  government,  and  Leopold 
of  Belgium  naturally  became  the  first  king. 

The  close  of  the  Berlin  Conference  was  a  red-letter 
day  in  the  history  of  the  new  world  of  Central  Africa, 
little  as  that  poor  ignorant  world  knew  it  !  A  mighty 
though  bloodless  victor}-  had  been  won  on  behalf  of 


■^^-^#1 


A-  ^  <h, 


86  BERLIN  CONFERENCE  DELIMITATIONS. 


the  poor  and  need}-.  Ihc  nations  of  Europe  had 
agreed  to  secure  for  Central  .Africa  the  opportunity  cjf 
a  peaceful  and  prosperous  development,  such  as  she 
would  never  have  enjoyed  but  for  such  agreement. 
It  was  a  triumi)h  of  Christian  principle  over  human 
selfishness,  luu-ojjc  for  once  agreed  to  do  what  is 
right  b)'  the  helpless,  and  to  prevent  others  from 
doing  what  is  wrong.^ 

Two  nations  derived  from  this  conference  cnor- 
mousl}'  increased  colonial  possessions  in  Africa — 
France  and  Portugal. 

The  West  African  dominions  of  the  former  arc  now 
equal  to  all  France  and  England  co)nbined,  comprising 
at  least  5,000  or  6,000  miles  of  river  navigation,  and 
having  a  coast-line  of  800  miles. 

Portugal  gained  an  extension  of  territory  which 
makes  her  coast-line  nearly  1,000  English  miles  in 
length,  and  gives  her  an  extent  of  country  equal  to 
all  Belgium,  Holland,  France,  and  Great  Britain  com- 
bined !  Will  she  know  what  to  do  with  this  vast 
domain  ?  Judging  b)-  what  this  rapidly  decaying 
papal  state  has  done  with  her  African  possessions 
for  the  last  400  j'cars,  there  is  slender  ground  for 
hope  that  the  poor  natives  of  these  regions  will  derive 


'  At  least  with  one  exception,  the  drink  traffic.  An  earnest  efTort 
was  made  to  get  it  prohibited,  but,  alas  !  it  failed.  It  was  agreed  to 
restrict  it  within  certain  undefined  limits,  but  beyond  this  the  Conference 
could  not  go,  owing  to  the  powerful  inHuence  of  the  great  drink-selling 
communities.  The  king  has  power  to  regulate  the  traffic,  but  not  to 
forbid  it.  Hence  the  reopening  of  the  question  at  the  Brussels  Con- 
ference, 1S90. 


BOUNDARIES   OF  THE   CO.YGO    FREE  STATE.      87 

much  benefit  from  Portuguese  domination  !  But 
religious  liberty  and  free  trade  arc  happily  secured 
by  the  Berlin  Treaty  both  in  French  and  Portuguese 
territory  as  far  as  it  lies  within  the  geographical  basin 
of  the  Congo.  The  zone  of  privileged  coDinierce 
extends  indeed  right  across  Africa  to  the  dominions 
of  the  Sultan  of  Zanzibar. 

The  Congo  Free  State,  which  received  its  political 
existence  at  this  Conference,  embraces  an  area  as 
large  as  all  India  ;  and  though  its  coast-line  on  the 
Atlantic  is  short,  yet  it  embraces  the  viojtth  of  the 
Congo  River.  Its  soutlicrn  boundarjMs  the  watershed 
between  the  Zambesi  and  the  Congo  ;  its  western  limit 
extends  close  to  the  Albert  Nyanza,  and  includes 
Lake  Tanganyika,  which  lies  geographically  in  the 
basin  of  the  Congo.  Its  northern  limit  reaches  up 
towards  the  Soudan,  including  the  Welle-Makua- 
Mobangi  and  its  tributaries,  so  that  it  embraces  the 
largest  part  of  Central  Africa. 

In  all  this  vast  territory  the  merchant  adventurer 
is  fenced  all  round  with  guarantees  against  spoliation, 
vexation,  and  worr}-.  The  liquor  traffic  ma}-  not  be 
abused  ;  slave-trading  is  prohibited  ;  the  missionary  is 
entitled  to  help  and  protection,  and  scientific  expe- 
ditions to  special  privileges. 

Surely  it  is  impossible  to  ignore  the  working  of  a 
higher  will  than  that  of  man  in  the  influencing  of 
so  many  great  nations  on  behalf  of  the  helpless  tribes 
of  Central  Africa ! 

The  blessings  of  civilization,  long  bestowed  in  rich 
abundance   in  Europe  and   North  America,   and  in 


THE   lire  11  EST  GOOD   OE  ALE. 


measure  in  Asia  and  Soutli  America,  seem  now 
destined  to  overflow,  and  flood  with  new  life  and  lij^ht 
the  long-oppressed  iJark  Continent  and  the  swarthy 
races  so  long  victimised  by  every  nation  possessed  of 
ships  and  colonies.  Never  before  in  the  history  of 
our  race  has  such  a  hopeful  prospect  cxistetl  for 
the  inhabitants  of  an  uncivilized  region  brought  for 
the  first  time  into  contact  with  strong  and  civili/.cd 
peoples. 

The  selfishness  of  mere  trade,  the  greed  of  gain 
which  is  apt  to  stop  at  no  injustice,  are  restrained 
and  checked  from  the  very  first.  J  Hack  men  and 
white  are  to  be  equal  before  the  law,  neither  slavery 
nor  the  slave-trade  are  to  be  encouraged,  or  even  per- 
mitted ;  peace  is  secured  by  international  guarantee 
over  all  this  immense  district,  commerce  is  to  be 
fostered,  not  only  by  the  absolute  freedom  of  person, 
propert)',  and  trade,  but  by  the  establishment  of  such 
securities  for  permanence  and  stability  as  will  invite 
the  liberal  investment  of  European  capital  ;  and, 
above  all,  perfect  religious  toleration  is  guaranteed. 

May  we  not  hope  and  pray  that  lie  \\'ho  has 
wrought  so  wondrously  on  behalf  of  Central  Africa 
since  the  days  of  Livingstone  will  now  incline  and 
enable  His  Church  to  send  forth  ambassadors  of 
Christ  in  adequate  numbers,  to  do  for  the  countless 
Bantu  races  what  neither  commerce  nor  civilization 
can  do, — teach  them  the  way  of  eternal  life  ? 


THE   CONGO  BASIN. 


300    MUe3 


The  above  rough  outline  map  of  the  Congo  Basin  shows  the  general 
direction  of  the  main  lines  of  drainage,  in  a  region  about  1,400  miles 
broad  by  1,200  deep,  containing  i,6So,ooo  square  miles  of  country,  all 
rendered  accessible  by  this  great  water-way. 

The  Congo  basin  of  Central  Africa  is  the  largest  river  basin  in  the 
Eastern  hemisphere,  exceeding  those  of  the  Ganges  in  India,  the 
Yang-tse-kiang  in  Cliina,  or  the  Danube  in  Europe.  It  is  exceeded 
only  by  the  Amazon  in  South  America.  Its  extent  is  best  understood 
by  comparison.  The  following  show  the  square  miles  drained  by 
some  of  the  largest  rivers  in  the  world  :  Danube,  300,000  ;  Tigris  and 
Euphrates,  230,000;  Nile,  500,000;  Volga,  640,000;  Ganges  and 
Brahmaputra,  650,000;  Mississippi,  1,250,000;  Congo,  1,639,000. 


CHAPTER  V. 

PORTUGAL  IN  AFRICA. 

I  We  think  it  well  before  going  further  to  say  a  little  on  the  subject  of  Portuguese 
claims  to  African  territory,  as  the  subject  has  a  present  interest,  as  well  as  a 
relation  to  the  past.  It  must  be  considered  in  the  light  of  the  history  of  her 
African  colonies.] 

Questions  of  mere  party  politics  have,  of  course, 
little  interest  for  Christians  ;  but  there  are  political 
subjects  having  an  important  bearing  on  the  well- 
being  of  mankind,  and  on  the  progress  of  the  gospel, 
which  claim  the  attention  of  all  who  desire  to  see 
extended  "  glory  to  God  in  the  highest,  and  on  earth 
peace,  goodwill  to  men." 

Such  was  the  question  of  the  recognition  by  treaty 
of  the  pretensions  of  Portugal  to  sovereign  rights  on 
the  western  coast  of  Africa,  between  Ambriz  (lat.  8° 
S.,  the  present  northern  limit  of  its  possessions)  and  a 
point  a  little  above  Kabinda  (lat.  5°  12'  S.),  including 
the  mouth  of  the  Congo.  This  territory,  with  a  coast- 
line of  about  two  hundred  miles,  was,  till  the  year  of 
the  Berlin  Conference,  absolutely  independent. 

The  ground  of  the  Portuguese  claim  was  a  papal 
grant  made  to  Portugal  in  the  year  148 1  by  Sixtus 
IV.  This  pope  issued  a  bull,  by  which  he  conveyed 
to  the  Portuguese  the  sovereignty  of  all  the  lands 
they  should  discover  beyond  Cape  Bojador,  including 


92  PAPAL    GEOGRAPHY! 


the  entire  coast-line  of  the  African  continent  beloiv 
Moi'occo,  of  Arabia,  and  the  whole  eastern  coast,  and 
of  the  countries  round  the  Indian  Ocean,  of  Malacca, 
Siam,  and  many  East  Indian  islands !  A  liberal 
grant  this  of  what  did  not  belong  to  him  !  If  such  a 
grant  be  considered  valid,  Portugal  undoubtedly  liad 
a  claim  to  the  territory  in  question  ;  but  happily  the 
clays  in  which  the  popes  of  Rome  could  dispose  of 
the  world  at  their  pleasure  are  long  gone  by  ! 

As  a  general  rule,  a  question  relating  to  the  pos- 
session of  two  or  three  hundred  miles  of  the  coast-line 
of  an  uncivilized  part  of  Africa  would  have  little  in- 
terest ;  but  in  this  case  it  assumed  great  importance, 
from  the  fact  that  the  only  mouth  of  the  mighty 
Congo,  or  Livingstone  River — the  greatest  highway 
into  Central  Africa — lies  in  this  very  territory.  To 
claim  it  was  to  claim  the  only  door  which  opens  into 
the  heart  of  Africa  from  the  west,  a  door  all  the  more 
important  and  valuable  because  it  is  within  three 
weeks'  sail  of  London.  The  Congo  must  inevitably 
become  in  the  future  the  principal  channel  of  com- 
merce with  West  Central  Africa. 

At  that  time  however  the  Portuguese  laid  claim 
to  it,  and  pressed  England  to  recognise  the  claim. 
The  ground  taken  by  Portugal  was,  that  this  country 
was  already  hers,  and  that'  England  should  recognise 
her  rights.  As  long  as  the  region  was  of  no  impor- 
tance, these  "rights"  were  allowed  to  lie  in  abey- 
ance, Portugal  had  no  desire  to  open  up  or  civilize 
the  country  ;  but  when  others  began  to  do  this,  and 
it  was   perceived    that  the   commerce  of  the  Conog 


PORTUGUESE   CLAIMS  IN  EASTERN  AFRICA.       93 

must  soon  become  considerable,  the  claims  were  as- 
serted, in  the  hope  of  securing  the  power  to  impose 
upon  future  commerce  dues  and  charges  which  would 
enhance  the  revenues  of  Portugal. 

Our  cabinet,  feeling  the  increasing  need  of  some 
government  in  that  region,  was  at  first  disposed  to 
acquiesce,  only  seeming  that  certain  important  rights 
should  be  protected.  This  was  opposed  in  Parlia- 
ment, the  treaty  was  rejected,  and  the  Berlin  Confer- 
ence afterwards  settled  the  question,  as  we  have  said, 
providing  that  the  river  itself,  as  well  as  the  northern 
bank,  which  is  part  of  the  Congo  Free  State,  should 
be  open  to  all  nations. 

Portugal  is  now  advancing  similarly  unreasonable 
claims  in  Eastern  Africa  to  lands  which  she  has 
never  entered  or  even  visited  ;  and  we  think  it  well 
therefore  to  recall  some  facts  in  the  history  of  Portu- 
gal and  its  colonies  which  afford  material  for  coming 
to  a  judgment  on  the  advisability  or  otherwise  of  per- 
mitting the  ascendency  of  that  power,  there  or  any- 
where in  the  unappropriated  parts  of  Central  Africa. 
Great  as  the  need  of  government  undoubtedly  is,  and 
certain  as  it  is  rapidly  to  become  still  greater,  yet  the 
present  state  of  things  around  Nyassa  is  better  than 
any  that  would  be  likely  to  arise  from  the  establish- 
ment of  Portuguese  authority. 

The  English,  the  P>cnch,  and  the  Dutch  can  colo- 
nize, and  can  govern  foreign  possessions,  as  their 
history  abundantly  proves  ;  the  Portuguese  cannot,  as 
their  history  proves  with  equal  clearness.     A  study  of 


94         iy//A  T  DO    IVE    WAN7'  TO  DO  IN  AFRICA  1 

that  liistory  is  all  that  is  needed  t(j  make  one  shrink 
from  the  thou;4ht  of  roitu^aiese  supremacy  extending 
to  any  fresh  portions  of  the  world. 

rhilaiithropy  and  Christianity  alike  lead  us  to  feel 
the  importance  of  this  subject.  Why  do  wc  want  to 
open  up  Central  Africa  ?  Why  do  wc  want  to  navi- 
gate the  great  Congo  water-way,  and  to  establish 
relations  with  the  millions  who  dwell  upon  its  banks? 
Why  do  wc  want  to  keep  Nyassaland  and  the  navi- 
gation of  the  Zambesi  River  free  to  all  nations?  For 
three  reasons  : 

I.  To  Christianize  and  civilize  the  natives. 
II.  To  put  a  stop  to  slavery  and  intertribal  wars, 
III.  To  extend  commerce  as  a  means  to  both  the 
above  ends.  Also  as  a  way  of  providing  a  new 
market  for  the  surplus  production  of  the  old  countries 
of  Europe,  suffering  now  from  a  glut  of  manufactured 
products  in  the  absence  of  sufficient  demand. 

Now  it  is  easy  to  prove  that  in  no  single  place  on 
the  face  of  the  earth  where  Portugal  has  ever  set  foot 
(and  she  has  set  foot  on  a  great  many  in  her  time) 
have  any  of  these  results  been  attained.  Nowhere 
has  she  Christianized  or  civilized  inferior  races  ; 
nowhere  has  she  stopped  or  opposed  slavery  or  inter- 
tribal wars  ;  nowhere  has  she  established  lucrative 
and  beneficial  commerce  !'  Wherever  her  influence 
has  been  felt,  native  tribes  have  been  demoralized,  op- 
pressed, or  exterminated  ;  slavery  has  been  fostered, 
and  wars  stirred  up  on  purpose  to  promote  it  ;  while 
commerce  has  been  conducted  with  a  view  to  the 
benefit  of  the  mother  country  only,  with  a  grasping 


rORTUGUESE  COLONIAL   IHSTORY. 


95 


greed  of  gain  that  has  defeated  its  own  object,  and  in 
the  end  cxtitiguishcd  the  very  commerce  from  which 
it  sought  too  much.  A  thousand  facts  might  be 
adduced  in  sup[)ort  of  these  statements.  We  must 
condense  only  a  few  of  the  most  important. 

TS  geographical  position 
would  naturally  make 
Portugal  one  of  the  first 
maritime  powers  of  Europe, 
and  the  one  glory  of  Portu- 
guese history  is  the  brief  period 
in  which  it  became  such  in  the 
Middle  Ages.  It  can  never  be 
forgotten  that  it  was  this  small 
country  which  took  the  lead  in 
the  memorable  maritime  ex- 
plorations and  discoveries  of  the 
fifteenth  and  sixteenth  centuries. 
In  i486,  it  was  the  Portuguese 
under  Bartholomew  Diaz  who 
first  sailed  down  the  west  coast 
of  Africa  and  rounded  the  Cape 
of  Good  Hope,  as  their  king, 
John  II.,  called  the  southern 
point  of  the  continent.  Vasco 
de  Gama,  in  the  reign  of  Em- 
manuel, in  1498  sailed  up  the 
east  coast  and  round  the  Indian 
Ocean,  and  reached  the  Malabar 
Coast  of  India,  where  the  Por- 


96  PORTUGAL'S   VAST  COLONIAL  EMPIRE. 


tugucsc  fought  against  and  conciucrccl  the  Arabs  at 
one  extreme  of  their  wide  empire,  as  they  had  aheady 
fought  against  and  conquered  them  in  Morocco,  the 
other  extreme.  They  cstabHshed  a  great  but  un- 
substantial colonial  empire  in  India,  of  which  Goa 
became  in  1510  the  centre. 

Depending  for  the  maintenance  of  their  jjower 
mainly  upon  material  force,  the  Portuguese  established 
military  stations  and  forts  all  up  the  eastern  coast  of 
lAfrica,  at  Mozambique,  Sofala,  Melinda,  and  on  the 
borders  of  the  Red  Sea,  at  Socotra,  Muscat,  at  Ormu/, 
in  the  Persian  Gulf,  and  at  many  points  in  southern 
India,  as  well  as  on  the  Coromandel  Coast,  the  penin- 
sula of  Malacca,  and  even  as  far  as  the  Moluccas  or 
Spice  Islands.  They  got  a  footing  al.so  in  Ceylon 
and  in  the  eastern  Indian  Archipelago,  especially  in 
the  island  of  Timor,  and  cstabHshed  commercial 
relations  even  with  China  and  Japan  in  the  middle  of 
the  sixteenth  century.  All  their  stations  were  how- 
ever maintained  by  military  force  ;  tJiey  never  attempted 
colonisation,  or  made  the  slightest  effort  for  the  benefit 
of  any  of  the  people  among  whom  they  settled.  They 
were  entirely  unlike  in  this  respect  to  the  English  or 
to  the  Dutch,  who  have  since  acquired  in  these  same 
countries  such  vast  and  flourishing  possessions.  On 
the  other  side  of  the  world  they  made  equally  exten- 
sive discoveries  and  conquests  in  South  America,  and 
with  an  equally  unsatisfactory  result  as  regards  the 
conquered  countries. 

What  has  been  tlic  result  of  Portuguese  dominion 
over  all   these  various  countries  and  peoples  ?     The 


THREE   CENTURIES  OF  DOWN-GRADE.  97 


answer  is  an  intensely  sad  one,  especially  when  we 
remember  that  Portugal  was  a  professedly  Christian 
nation,  and  all  these  peoples  were  either  Mohammadans 
or  pagans.  Has  she  anywhere  imparted  the  blessings 
of  Christianity  and  civilization,  with  their  attendant 
peace  and  prosperity  ?  Has  she  grown  permanently 
richer  through  her  colonial  empire,  or  benefited  in  any 
way  herself  by  her  conquests  and  annexations  ? 

The  reply  is  patent  to  all.  The  career  of  Portugal 
since  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century  Jias  been  a 
steadily  doioiizvard  one  ;  in  every  possible  respect  the 
decadence  can  be  traced.  Her  territory  has  been 
reduced,  and  at  one  time  for  more  than  forty  years 
her  very  independence  was  extinguished  ;  her  popu- 
lation has  been  diminished,  so  that  it  is  now  little 
more  than  that  of  London  and  its  suburbs,  amounting 
in  the  mother  country  to  four  millions,  and  in  the 
colonies  to  three  and  a  half.  Pier  government  has 
deteriorated  in  character  and  in  power  ;  her  colonial 
administration  is  marked  by  weakness,  corruption, 
and  inefficiency.  Pier  people  are  sunk  in  ignorance 
and  burdened  with  taxation.  Her  internal  resources 
are  still  to  a  large  extent  undeveloped,  and  her 
colonial  resources  almost  entirely  so.  Her  navigation 
has  all  but  ceased  to  exist,  her  mercantile  marine 
consisting  only  of  about  a  hundred  vessels,  transport- 
ing some  16,000  tons  of  merchandise!  Not  a  single 
line  of  transatlantic  steamers  sail  from  her  ports,  and 
even  the  mail  to  Angola  has  to  be  largely  subsidised 
by  the  Government.  Her  fisheries,  once  rich  and 
productive,  afford  now  only   the    most   slender  sub- 

C.  A.  7 


98  lV//y  PORTUGAL'S  COLONIES  I-ELL. 

sistencc  to  a  miserable  and  diminishing^  population, 
producing;  not  one  tithe  of  what  they  formerly  did. 
Her  manufactures  had  completely  died  out,  though 
they  have  recently  revived  a  little,  but  only  ab(jut 
20,000  workmen  are  now  employed  in  them.  Her 
internal  communications  and  public  works  arc  still 
in  the  most  elementary  state  ;  her  finances  show  an 
annual  deficit  ;  and  her  colonies  are  in  abject  decay, 
forming  a  charge  upon  the  mother  country  instead 
of  yielding  to  it  any  revenue  ;  while  the  condition  of 
the  people  in  them  subject  to  her  sway  is  utterly 
deplorable. 

The  facts  on  which  the  above  statements  arc  based 
have  not  been  gathered  from  foreign  sources,  but 
from  Portuguese  documents  and  returns,  which  will 
be  found  embodied  in  a  review  of  the  present  political 
and  commercial  condition  of  the  country,  entitled, 
"  Lc  Portugal  et  Scs  Colonies,"  published  in  Paris.' 

Nor  are  the  reasons  of  this  remarkable  and  complete 
deterioration  difficult  to  discover.  The  warlike  en- 
thusiasm and  venturesome  heroism  which  can  secure 
conquests  can  never  found  permanent  colonial  empires 
unless  backed  up  by  justice,  benevolence,  patience, 
and  perseverance,  statesmanlike  wisdom,  and  the 
power  of  exercising  firm  yet  gentle  authority.  In 
these  qualities  the  Portuguese,  alas  !  are  lacking. 
They  never  laid  a  broad,  material  basis  for  the  per- 
manence of  their  dominion,  but  allowed  it  to  depend 
on  the  force  of  arms.     They  have  no  genius  for  com- 


'  Guillaumin  el  Cie.,  Rue  Richelieu,  14. 


JESUITRY. 


99 


merce,  unless  the  greedy  desire  for  gain,  regardless  of 
the  way  in  which  it  is  procured,  may  be  considered 
such.  Portugal  was  too  small  a  country  to  sustain  by 
her  own  unaided  resources  the  \-ast  outlay  involved 
by  her  suddenly  created  and  enormously  extended 
colonial  empire.  It  led  to  an  emigration  so  rapid 
as  to  reduce  the  home  population  below  the  right  and 
safe  point,  and  moreover  the  immense  influx  of  ill- 
gotten  gain  that  poured  into  the  mother  country  when 
the  gold  and  diamonds  of  Brazil  and  the  rich  pro- 
duce of  India  were  its  monopoly,  led  to  the  bad 
consequences  which  sudden  riches  generally  produce, 
— luxury,  extravagance,  indolence,  pride,  and  general 
demoralization. 

The  fatal  influence  of  the  Jesuits^  which  culminated 

in  Portugal  about  the  same  period,  the  establishment 

and  unmerciful   working  of  the  Inquisition,  with  its 

abominable  persecutions  and  its  sombre 

terrors  at  home  and  in  the 


INQUISITION,    WIIH    ITS    . 


SOMBRE  TERRORS. 


lOO '' THE ASURES  OF  WICKEDNESS  PROFIT  NOTHING:' 


colonies,  sufficed 
to  make  the  I'or- 
tucjuese,  who  were 
already  hated  for 
their  a\arice  and 
despotism,  ex- 
ecrable in  the 
ejes  of  the  na- 
tives. The  story 
of  the  Jesuit  per- 
secutions at  Goa 
is  almost  too 
horrible  to  read. 

The  i^overn- 
ment  cstabhshed 
in  the  colonies 
was  from  the  first 
moreover  radi- 
cally wrong  in  its 
constitution,  consisting  of  underpaid  and  irresponsible 
officials,  who  accepted  office  in  unhealthy  climates 
with  the  sole  view  of  speedily  enriching  themselves  by 
the  oppression  of  the  natives  and  the  manipulation  of 
the  revenue,  and  then  returning  to  enjoy  their  wealth 
in  Portugal.  Colonial  governors  were  appointed  for 
three  years  only,  and  felt  that  they  had  to  make  hay 
while  the  sun  shone. 

The  decay  of  most  of  the  Portuguese  colonies  was 
as  rapid  as  their  growth  had  been  sudden.  Brazil, 
the  largest  and  richest,  however  remained  to  them 
longer  than  the  rest,  and  for  a  time  kept  up  the  failing 


iili:  lAl.Vl.  INFLUEN'CE  OK   lllK   lEsLilb. 


PORTUGAL'S   PRESENT  COLONIAL   POSSESSIONS,  loi 

exchequer  of  the  mother  country.  In  1822  Brazil 
however,  became  independent,  and  Portuguese  domi- 
nation in  South  America  ceased. 

Of  the  once  world-wide  empire  of  Portugal,  whose 
colonies  in  the  fifteenth  century  girdled  the  globe, 
and  (like  England's  now)  exceeded  in  population  and 
extent  the  mother  country,  there  now  remain  to  her 
only  a  few  little  islands  on  the  coast  of  Africa, 
including  the  Cape  Verdes  ;  the  provinces  of  Angola, 
Benguella,  and  Congo  on  the  west  coast  of  Africa ; 
that  of  Mozambique  on  the  east  coast,  including 
Ouillimane,  and  some  small  districts  on  the  Zambesi  ; 
the  miserable  little  province  of  Goa  in  India,  which 
has  only  48,000  inhabitants  ;  a  few  unimportant 
possessions  in  the  East  Indian  Archipelago,  includ- 
ing a  portion  of  the  island  of  Timor,  the  small 
island  of  Solor,  and  the  islet  of  Macao  off  the  coast 
of  China. 

In  these  still  remaining  colonies  of  Portugal  cor- 
ruption and  decay  are  painfully  evident  ;  nothing 
can  well  be  more  deplorable  than  the  condition  of 
Goa,  the  only  remnant  of  her  once  extensive  pos- 
sessions in  India  ;  and  it  is  the  same  with  IMacao  and 
Timor.  In  the  hands  of  other  European  nations,  com- 
merce with  India  and  China  has  assumed  immense 
proportions  and  great  importance,  but  in  the  Portu- 
guese settlements  it  is  dying  out  ! 

As  to  Angola  and  the  other  West  African  posses- 
sions of  Portugal,  tJieir  growth  was  entirely  due  to 
the  slave-trade  with  Brazil  and  North  America,  and 
since   its   suppression    they   languish    out    a    useless 


/S  PORTUGAL  AT  ALL  J.IK  EL  \ 


existence,  painful  to  themselves  and  profitless  to  the 
mother  country.  The  total  population  of  the  colonics 
of  Portugal  at  the  present  date  does  not  exceed  three 
and  a  half  millions,  and  their  cxpcn'ts  to  the  mother 
countr)'  arc  under  two  millions  in  \'aluc  ! 

In  \ie\v  of  these  undeniable  facts,  we  may  well  ask. 
Would  Portuguese  influence  in  East  Africa  have  been 
at  all  likely  to  secure  the  enlightenment  and  civi- 
lization of  the  people?  would  it  be  likely  to  develop 
a  profitable  commerce  between  the  new  world  of 
Central  Africa  and  the  old  world  of  Europe,  if  the 
Zambesi  were  acknowledged  as  a  Portuguese  river? 
It  is  certain  moreover  that  though  religious  liberty 
might  be  stipulated  for  and  secured  by  treaty,  it 
would  never  really  exist  under  Portuguese  laws.  To 
what  extent  is  religious  liberty  secured  in  the  mother 
countr}-  ?  Roman  Catholicism  is  the  established 
religion  of  the  kingdom,  and  the  law  provides  onl}' 
that  "foreigners  are  permitted  to  profess  their  reli- 
gion with  the  right  of  private  worship  in  buildings 
set  apart  for  the  purpose,  but  not  having  externall)' 
the  appearance  of  churches."  Portuguese  subjects, 
whether  black  or  \\hite,  would  not  be  considered 
"foreigners"  within  the  meaning  of  the  terms  of  this 
article,  and  therefore  the  natives  would  enjoy  no 
more  religious  liberty  on  the  Zambesi  than  they  now 
enjo}'  in  the  Cape  \'crde  Islands  or  in  Madeira.  We 
have  learned  what  sort  of  liberty  exists  in  these,  b\' 
the  expulsion  of  missionaries  from  Madeira  and  from 
St.  \^incent ! 

Again,  would  slavery  be  steadih^  and  consistently 


TO  ELEVATE   OR  HELP  EAST  AL^RICAl  103 

opposed  under  Portut^uesc  rule  ?  and  would  the  moral 
condition  of  the  people  be  elevated?  Judging  by  ana- 
logy it  would  be  the  very  reverse.  It  is  well  known 
that  all  the  horrors  of  the  West  African  slave-trade 
owed  their  birth  to  the  Portuguese ;  and  it  is  not  less 
notorious  that  Portugal  evaded  by  all  possible  subter- 
fuges for  thirty  years  the  signing  of  the  treaty  by  which 
other  European  nations  early  in  this  century  bound 
themselves  to  the  abolition  of  the  odious  traffic.  Our 
Parliament  was  obliged  at  last  to  pass  a  bill  authorizing 
British  cruisers  to  board  and  search  Portuguese  vessels, 
and  detain  and  destroy  such  as  they  found  engaged 
in  it.  Even  nozv  this  is  the  only  check  on  the  slave- 
trading  propensities  of  the  Portuguese.  The  slave- 
trade  was  maintained  by  Portugal  on  the  Congo  up  to 
1868  ;  and  it  has  only  ceased,  thanks  to  the  energetic 
interference  of  the  commanders  of  the  English  cruisers. 
As  soon  as  this  iniquitous  trade  became  impossible 
or  too  dangerous,  the  commercial  energy  of  the  Portu- 
guese on  the  banks  of  the  Congo  was  at  an  end. 

Of  course,  the  slave-trade  as  it  used  to  exist  is  nozv 
abolished  on  the  West  Coast ;  but,  as  Lord  Mayo  says, 
"  slaves  can  be  bought  and  sold  still  in  the  provinces 
of  the  Portuguese  colonies."  Mr.  Stanley  confirms 
this  when  he  says  : 

"  In  1878,  the  Portuguese  Government  abolished 
the  slave-trade  in  all  their  possessions,  but  means  zvcre 
found  to  cany  on  the  traffic  under  anotJiernavie.  They 
have  got  over  the  difficulty  by  importing  what  they 
call  '  colonials.'  They  are  brought  in  lighters  to  Ben- 
guella  from  Catumbella,  and  then  taken  to  Loanda 


I04      rORTUGAl.   STILL    CONNIVES  AT  SLAVERY. 

in  the  mail  steamer.  Their  names,  ages,  and  de- 
scriptions arc  taken  by  Government  officials,  and  they 
are  asked  a  number  of  silly  questions,  such  as,  '  Arc 
you  hunj^ry?'  'Have  you  had  anythin;^  to  cat?' 
'  Do  you  want  any  food  ?  '  in  order  that  the  affirmative 
'  yes '  ma)'  be  obtained.  They  arc  then  shipped  by 
mail  steamers  to  St.  Thomas  to  labour  for  five  years. 
In  the  steamer  I  came  home  in  there  were  eighty-two 
of  these  Africans.  They  are  paid  about  twopence  a 
day,  and  provided  with  food  and  lodging.  The  great 
curse  of  this  .system  is,  that  any  planter,  after  he  has 
received  his  consignment  of  black  labourers,  can  go 
down  to  Santa  Anna,  the  capital  of  St.  Thomas,  and 
nxon tract  these  natives,  without  consulting  ihejn,  for 
another  term  of  five  or  seven  years.  That  this  is 
slavery  cannot  be  denied." 

In  1865  Monteiro  saw  a  caravan  with  three  thou- 
sand  slaves,  a  third  of  whom  were  destined  for  expor- 
tation, arriving  in  Benguella,  and  he  sa}'s  that  all  the 
officials,  from  the  governor  to  the  smallest  clerk,  were 
bribed  to  shut  their  eyes  to  the  illegal  proceedings. 

Cameron  says :  "  The  crimes  perpetrated  in  the 
centre  of  Africa  by  men  who  call  themselves  Chris- 
tians and  Portuguese  would  appear  incredible  to  the 
habitants  of  civilized  countries.  The  Portuguese  are 
morall}-  the  accomplices  of  the  slave-dealers,  and 
ravishcrs  of  women  and  children."  Many  a  time  we 
have  been  absolutel)'  sickened  in  reading  the  narra- 
tives of  cyc-witncsses  of  the  horrible  cruelties  of  the 
Portuguese  slave-traders,  exceeding  if  possible  those 
of  the  Arab  traders  on  the  east  coast. 


'*  ACTIONS  SPEAK'  LOUDER    THAN   WORDS."      105 

The  German  traveller,  Dr.  Tarns,  speaking  of  com- 
paratively recent  events  writes  :  "If  the  Portuguese 
were  called  upon  to  pay  one  drop  of  blood  for  each 
existence  which  they  have  sacrificed  without  mercy, 
Portugal  could  not  offer  enough  inhabitants." 

Of  Portuguese  rule  in  East  Africa  Dr.  Krapf  says  : 
"  She  ruled  with  a  rod  of  iron,  and  her  pride  and 
cruelty  had  their  reward  in  the  bitter  hatred  of  the 
natives.  Governors  and  officials  sought  only  to  be- 
come quickl}^  rich,  to  enjoy  their  ill-gotten  wealth  at 
home.  Xowhere  is  there  to  be  seen  a  single  trace  of 
any  real  improvement  effected."  ^ 

Portugal  la}'s  claim  to  a  decided  anti-slavery  polic}', 
and  makes  i^ixx profession  on  this  head.  But  "actions 
speak  louder  than  words."  In  face  of  a  thousand 
contradictory  facts,  professions  go  for  little  ! 

As  regards  Loanda,  Livingstone  says  :  "  The 
country  remains  very  much  the  same  as  the  Portuguese 
found  it  in  1575."  More  than  three  centuries  of 
occupation,  and  no  improvement  !  And  again  :  "  The 
intercourse  which  the  natives  have  had  with  the 
white  men  does  not  .seem  to  have  ameliorated  their 
condition  to  any  great  extent.  Very  many  lives  are 
annually  sacrificed  to  their  cruel  superstitions,  without 
the  interference  of  the  Portuguese  authorities." 

And  what  shall  we  say  of  the  conunercial  prospects 
of  the  lands  where  Portugal  bears  sway?  Again, 
let  the  history  of  the  past  and  present  facts  answer 

'  Krapf  :  "East  Africa,"  p.  524. 


io6      LIVINGSTONE   ON  PORTUGUESE   COLONIES. 


the  question.  "  Durincj  three  centuries,"  says  Rittcr, 
"  the  Tortugucsc  have  done  nothing  to  improve  the 
condition  of  the  African  tribes  with  whom  they  have 
relations." 

Cameron  sa)'s  :  "  They  hold  the  keys  of  the  land 
route  from  Loanda  and  Benguella,  but  keep  out  foreign 
capital  and  enterprise,  and  arc  the  moral  accomplices 
of  slave-traders  and  kidnappers.  A  blind  system  of 
protection,  carried  out  by  underpaid  officials,  stifies 
trade,  and  renders  these  places  hotbeds  of  corrup- 
tion." ^ 

Livingstone  says  the  Portuguese  emplo}'  their 
power  to  perpetuate  the  miserable  condition  of  the 
country,  and  Monteiro's  testimony  is  full  and  clear 
on  the  point.  "  In  the  fifteen  years  that  1  have  lived 
in  and  travelled  over  a  great  part  of  Angola,  and 
passed  in  intimate  intercourse  with  natives  and  Portu- 
guese, I  have  had  abundant  opportunities  of  witness- 
ing tJic  miserable  state  to  ivliicJt  that  fine  country  has 
been  reduced  by  the  wretched  and  corrupt  system  of  Por- 
tuguese government.  The  few  honest  men  there  find 
themselves  unable  to  influence  in  the  least  the  sad 
state  into  which  the  country  has  been  sunk  b}-  long 
years  of  rapacity  on  the  part  of  its  irresponsible 
governors  ;  whilst  in  Portugal  itself  patriotism  and 
public  morality  are  debased  by  an  unchecked  s)'stem 
of  briber}'  and  greed  of  money  and  of  power,  it  is  too 
much  to  expect  that  the  rich  colonics  \\\\\  be  purged 
of  their  lone:  existin"-  abuses." 


*  "  Across  Africci,"  p.  334. 


PORTUGUESE   COLON AL   GOVERNMENT.  107 


Few  could  better  estimate  the  value  of  her  colonies 
to  Portugal  than  Antonio  Gallenga,  Esq.,  for  many 
years  correspondent  of  the  Times,  and  author  of  a 
volume  entitled  "  Iberian  Reminiscences  "  (Chapman 
&  Hall),  who  thoroughly  studied  the  question  of  her 
commercial  condition.  He  says  :  "  Her  commerce 
must  always  be  poor  ;  her  colonization,  in  so  far  as  it 
depends  on  herself,  nothing  at  all.  She  has  no  popu- 
lation to  spare,  none  that  can  go  and  cultivate  the 
land  in  her  colonies.  The  Portuguese  of  Lisbon  and 
the  southern  provinces  of  the  kingdom  are  a  weak 
and  dawdling  race,  well  described  b}-  Byron  as  '  poor 
paltry  slaves.'  Those  of  Oporto  and  the  north  and 
north-east  are  a  better  race  ;  they  have  great  energy 
and  manliness,  and  are  mixed  with  the  Gallegos,  im- 
migrants from  Galicia  and  other  parts  of  the  north- 
west of  Spain,  whom  they  despise  as  the  Spartans  did 
their  helots,  but  who  do  all  the  hard  work  of  the 
country,  and  are  its  backbone. 

"  But  taking  the  whole  population  of  Portugal  as  it 
is,  they  are  so  far  from  being  able  to  spare  any  of 
their  people  for  the  colonization  of  other  lands,  that 
it  is  reckoned  their  production  of  wine,  the  great 
staple  produce  of  the  kingdom,  would  be  at  least 
double,  if  the  vast  tracts  of  the  country  now  lying 
waste  were  cultivated. 

"  Those  who  leave  Portugal  do  not  generally  go  to 
the  present  colonies  of  the  kingdom,  but  to  its  former 
possession  of  Brazil  ;  not  to  seek  emplo}'ment  as 
husbandmen,  but  to  engage  in  pett)'  trade,  or  as 
mechanics,  sometimes  realizing    a    fortune,  in  which 


io8  A   BASELESS  BUT  GIGANTIC  CLAIM. 

case  they  come  back   to  enjoy  their  earnings  in   Lis- 
bon, where  they  are  known  as  Brazileros. 

"  The  colonics  of  Portugal  in  Africa,  Asia,  etc.,  arc 
merely  possessiotis  out  of  loJiich  the  Portuguese  govern- 
nors  derive  some  incouie,  as  the  Dutch  do  at  Java,  as 
hard  taskmasters  of  the  helpless  native  population  ; 
but  commerce,  as  carried  on  between  the  kingdom 
and  its  dependencies,  must  rely  for  existence  on  pro- 
tection, for  Portugal  has  but  little  to  sell^  and  its  rcveiuie 
is  chiefly  based  on  heavy  duties  levied  on  the  produce  of 
other  countries.  Portugal's  colonial  dominions  extend 
over  a  surface  of  709,469  P2nglish  square  miles,  with  a 
population  of  3,333,700  persons.  It  is  questionable 
whether  there  are  3,000  Portuguese  settlers,  reckoning 
all  of  them,  deducting,  of  course,  the  garrisons." 

Such  being  the  facts  of  the  case,  and  such  the 
lessons,  experienced  English  philanthropists  cannot 
but  feel  indignant,  on  the  one  hand,  and  amused,  on 
the  other,  at  the  claims  latcl\'  put  forth  by  Portugal 
to  the  territory  stretching  not  only  from  the  Zam- 
besi to  Mozambique  on  the  Indian  Ocean, — but 
right  across  the  African  continent  to  Angola  on 
the  Atlantic  !  This  enormous  claim  has  been  based 
on  a  grant  of  Pope  Alexander  VI.,  the  worst  pope 
— and  one  of  the  worst  men — that  ever  lived,  the  in- 
famous Spanish  Borgia,  who  burned  Savonarola,  and 
made  his  name  an  execration  to  posterity.  On  this 
outrageous  claim  Portugal  based  another,  that  the 
Zambesi  River  belonged  to  her  !  In  pursuance  of 
this  latter  claim  she  actually  proceeded  to  seize  a 
steamer  and  supplies  of  ammunition  belonging  to  the 


THE    VICIORIA    FALLS   OF   THE   ZA.\I1:KSI. 

Discovered  by  Livingstone. 

109 


FREEDOM  OF  GREAT  NATURAL  HIGHWAYS. 


African  Lakes  Company,  which  was  on  its  way  up  the 
Shire  to  the  Nyassa  district.  This  she  did,  in  sj^ite 
of  the  fact  that  it  was  illegal  according  to  treaties 
which  she  had  made,  on  the  faith  of  which  this  com- 
pany had  been  founded.  The  course  was  the  more 
reprehensible,  because  it  was  adopted  at  a  very 
serious  crisis,  when  the  well-being  and  even  the  exis- 
tence of  the  beneficent  African  Lakes  Company,  as 
well  as  that  of  the  Scottish  and  English  missions  on 
Nyassa  and  Tanganyika,  were  being  jeopardised  by 
Arab  hostility.  Under  these  circumstances,  the  pre- 
tension was  of  course  more  than  could  be  endured  by 
our  Government,  and  the  Earl  of  Harrowby  called 
attention  to  it  in  the  House  of  Lords  in  July,  i88S. 
In  the  debate  which  took  place  on  that  occasion  Lord 
Salisbury,  the  prime  minister,  said  : 

"  I  agree  with  my  noble  friend  in  thinking  that  the 
possession  of  a  vast  natural  highway  like  the  Zambesi, 
under  the  peculiar  circumstances  of  its  history,  cannot 
be  claimed  by  Pot'tugal.  After  all,  it  was  discovered  by 
Englishmen,  and  is  now  principally  used  by  English- 
men. It  leads  to  settlements  wherein  Englishmen 
are  conducting  their  operations,  religious  and  com- 
mercial;  and  I  think  that,  even  according  to  the  strict 
doctrines  of  international  law,  it  is  a  matter  of  the 
greatest  doubt  whether  a  nation  in  full  possession  of 
the  two  sides  of  the  Zambesi  River  has  a  right  to 
exercise  any  jurisdiction  to  bar  access  to  the  territories 
which  lie  beyond.  The  Congo  and  other  rivers  have 
been  declared  free  ;  and  that  being  the  case,  and 
especially  considering  the  very  peculiar  circumstances 


PORTUGAL  AND  NYASSALAND. 


in  which  the  Zambesi  is  placed,  I  am  convinced  that 
the  opinion  of  the  civih'zed  world  will  be  on  our  side 
when  we  sa)'  that  tlic  Zambesi  must  be  a  route  open  to 
all,  and  not  confined  to  one." 

In  his  recent  work  on  tropical  Africa,  Professor 
Drummond  says,  as  regards  the  claims  of  Portugal  to 
the  Xyassa  territory  :  "  No  one  has  ever  attempted  to 
define  how  far  inland  the  Portuguese  claim,  founded 
on  coast  possession,  is  to  be  considered  good.  But 
that  it  cannot  include  the  regions  north  of  the  Zam- 
besi—the Shire  Highlands  and  Lake  Nyassa-=-is  self- 
evident.  These  regions  w^ere  discovered  and  explored 
by  Livingstone.  They  have  been  occupied  since  his 
time  exclusively  by  British  subjects,  and  colonized 
exclusively  with  British  capital.  The  claim  of  Eng- 
land therefore — though  nothing  but  a  moral  claim 
has  ever  been  made — is  founded  on  the  double  right 
of  discovery  and  occupation  ;  and  if  it  were  a  question 
of  treaty  with  the  natives,  it  might  possibly  be  found 
on  private  inquiry  that  a  precaution  so  obvious  had 
not  been  forgotten  by  those  most  nearly  interested." 
"  On  the  other  hand,  no  treaties  exist  with  Portugal  ; 
there  is  not  a  single  Portuguese  in  the  country  ;  and, 
until  the  other  day,  no  Portuguese  had  ever  seen  it. 
It  is  a  region  from  which  they  have,  by  the  natives, 
been  most  carefully  excluded.  The  reason  for  this 
forced  exclusion  is  not  far  to  seek.  At  first,  Portugal 
had  too  much  to  do  in  keeping  their  always  precarious 
foothold  on  the  banks  of  the  Zambesi,  to  think  of  the 
country  that  lay  beyond  ;  and  when  their  eyes  were 
at  last  turned  towards  it  by  the  successes  of  the  Eng- 


ENGLAND  AND  NYASSALAND. 


lish,  the  detestation  in  which  they  were  hekl  by  the 
natives — the  inevitable  result  of  lony  years  of  t>'ranny 
and  mismanay;ement — made  it  impossible  for  them  to 
extend  an  influence  which  was  known  to  be  disastrous 
to  every  native  right.  Had  the  Portuguese  done  well 
by  the  piece  of  Africa  of  which  they  already  assumed 
the  stewardship,  no  one  would  dispute  their  claim  to 
as  much  of  the  country  as  they  could  wisely  use.  Ikit 
when  even  the  natives  have  had  to  rise,  and  by  force 
of  arms  prevent  their  expansion,  it  is  impossible  that 
they  should  be  allowed  to  overflow  into  the  highland 
country,  much  less  to  claim  it,  now  that  England,  by 
pacific  colonization  and  missionary  work,  holds  the 
key  to  the  hearts  and  hands  of  its  peoples.  Wy  every 
moral  consideration,  the  Portuguese  have  themselves 
forfeited  the  permission  to  trespass  farther  in  equa- 
torial Africa.  They  have  done  nothing  for  the  people 
since  the  day  they  set  foot  in  it.  They  have  never 
discouraged,  but  rather  connived  at  the  slave-trade. 
Livingstone  himself  took  the  servant  of  the  governor 
of  Tettc  red-handed,  at  the  head  of  a  large  slave-gang. 
They  have  been  at  perpetual  feud  with  the  native 
tribes.  They  have  taught  them  to  drink.  Their 
missions  have  failed.  Their  colonization  is  not  even 
a  name.  With  such  a  record  in  the  past,  no  pressure 
surely  can  be  required  to  make  the  Government  of 
England  stand  firm  in  its  repudiation  of  a  claim  which, 
were  it  acknowledged,  zvoiild  destroy  tlic  last  hope  for 
cast  Central  Africa"  ^ 


'  "  Tropical  Africa,"  p.  207. 


THE  RECENT  ULTIMATUM.  113 

Consul  Johnson  has  recently  hoisted  the  British 
flag  at  the  confluence  of  the  Ruo  with  the  Shire.  We 
trust  this  means  that  England  does  not  intend  to 
permit  Portugal  to  interfere  with  that  grand  Nyassa 
district,  which  is  sacred  to  every  Scotch  heart,  if  not 
to  every  Englishman,  as  the  land  of  Livingstone. 
The  Protestant  missions  of  the  Scotch  Presbyterian 
Churches  have  already  done  great  good  there,  and 
only  need  protection  of  life  and  property  to  succeed 
gloriously.^ 


'  Since  the  foregoing  was  in  type  the  question  of  Portuguese  preten- 
sions in  East  Africa  has  come  to  a  crisis,  and  been  settled  happily 
in  the  right  direction  for  the  benefit  of  the  poor  Africans.  Millions  of 
these  long  oppressed  and  much-enduring  people  will  have  reason  to  be 
thankful  for  the  ultimatum  sent  by  the  English  Government  to  Lis- 
bon in  January,  1890,  requiring  the  immediate  abandonment  on  the 
part  of  Portugal  of  all  pretension  to  rights  in  the  Shire  Highlands  and 
in  Nyassaland  as  well  as  in  Mashona  and  Matabele  lands,  which  are 
now  declared  British  protectorates.  Portugal  had  no  alternative  but 
to  yield  the  point,  but  she  did  so  under  protest,  and  with  much 
resentment.  It  is  strange  that  our  tardy  adoption  of  a  coui^se  strictly 
in  accordance  with  international  law  and  justice  should  have  rendered 
Portugal  so  utterly  oblivious  of  the  fact  that  to  Britain  alone  she  owes 
her  present  national  existence.  The  long  Peninsular  War — which  was 
fought  mainly  in  her  defence — cost  England  150  millions  sterling, 
besides  the  lives  of  thousands  of  her  sons. 


C.  A. 


CHAPTER  VI. 
AFRICA'S  GREATEST  CURSE— SLAVERY. 

A  HOST  of  evils  afflict  poor  Africa  !  Isolation 
and  ignorance,  superstition  and  sorcery,  poverty  and 
tyrann)',  cruel  customs  and  satanic  delusions  abound 
all  over  the  new  world.  But  in  spite  of  them 
Africans  live  on  and  have  done  so  for  ages,  though 
they  do  not  multipl}-  as  they  should  do  or  fill  their 
continent.  They  continue  to  exist  and,  according  to 
their  own  low  estimate  of  happiness,  to  live  happily, 
notwithstanding  their  great  and  many  disadvantages. 
Moreover  all  these  evils  are  capable  of  amelioration 
and  removal,  and  they  would  yield  to  the  Christian 
agencies  and  civilizing  influences  now  at  work  in 
course  of  time. 

But  there  is  one  dark  and  dreadful  evil  in  the 
presence  of  which  the  Africans  do  not  live,  but  die ! 
They  die  by  the  thousand  and  the  hundred  thousand, 
in  sudden  agony  or  prolonged  torture.  They  cease 
to  exist,  and  leave  the  lands  they  occupied  to  deso- 
lation and  the  wild  beasts.  It  is  an  e\il  that  is 
incapable  of  any  amelioration,  and  the  beneficent 
influences  of  time  and  growing  civilization  have  no 
tendency  to  check  it. 


Il6  THE   OPEN  SOKE   OF   THE    WORLD. 

As  a  malignant  and  incurable  cancer  cats  with 
intolerable  anguish  into  the  body,  until  death  ensues, 
so  docs  this  evil  eat  into  the  vitals  of  Africa,  with 
results  that  must  be  fatal,  unless  it  can  be  arrested. 

It  is  an  ever-spreading,  ever-deepening  evil,  and  as 
yet  no  cure  has  been  found  for  it.  Ikit  if  Africa  is 
ever  to  be  evangelized,  .saved,  and  civilized,  a  cure 
must  be  found.  In  the  mercy  of  God  \vc  believe  it 
\\\\\  be  found,  and  be  found  soon.  May  lie  inspire 
the  minds  of  men  to  discover  it,  and  encourage  and 
enable  philanthropists  to  apply  it ! 

Wc  allude  of  course  to  the  destructive  and  depopu- 
lating Akajj  SLAVE-TRADi;.  Livingstone  first  un- 
veiled to  us  its  horrors;  his  tombstone  in  Westminster 
Abbey  attests  his  detestation  of  it,  and  appeals  with 
touching  fervour  for  its  extinction.  But  it  runs  still 
that  "  open  sore  of  the  world,"  though  he  ga\c  his 
life  for  its  abolition  ! 

No  fair  view  of  the  new  world  can  omit  this  salient 
feature  of  its  .social  condition.  The  curse  of  the 
Arab  slave-trade  prevails  Dtainly  in  the  Soudan  and 
in  the  eastern  half  of  the  continent  ;  but  it  has 
spread  already  from  the  coast  to  the  centre,  and  is 
desolating  even  the  banks  of  the  Congo.  It  is  ravag- 
ing some  of  the  fairest  portions  of  the  Congo  Free 
State,  and  imperilling  some  of  the  most  hopeful 
missions  of  the  Church.  We  must  not  pass  the  sub- 
ject in  silence,  for  the  sake  of  those  who  are  not 
familiar  with  the  facts.  It  is  a  ca.se  in  which,  though 
ignorance  is  bliss,  it  is  not  folly  to  be  wise.     For  only 


ARABS  IN  AFRICA.  117 


those  who  know  can  sympathise,  and  only  those  who 
sympathise  will  pray,  and  prayer  is  all-important,  for 
God  alone  can  help. 

The  Arabs  in  Africa  have  ever  been  true  to  the 
prophetic  description  of  their  race.  They  are 
Ishmael's  seed,  and  their  hanci  is  against  every  man 
and  every  man's  hand  against  them  !  Four  thousand 
years  ago  the  angel  told  Hagar  this  would  be  the 
character  of  her  son's  posterity  ;  and  as  certainly  as  in 
Isaac's  seed  all  nations  of  the  earth  have  been  blessed, 
so  surely  through  Ishmael's  descendants  countless 
nations  have  cruelly  suffered.  Saracens  and  Arabs 
have  been  emphatically  a  "  woe  "  in  the  earth. 

Nowhere  is  this  more  evident  than  in  Africa. 
Their  contempt  of  lower  races,  and  their  unprincipled 
greed  of  gain  ;  the  slavery  which  their  customs 
demand  and  their  faith  allows  ;  their  partial  civiliza- 
tion and  possession  of  firearms,  and  the  helpless, 
unarmed  condition  of  most  of  the  native  races — all 
these  together  have  made  them  what  they  undoubt- 
edly are,  Africa's  worst  woe  !  Like  ravenous  beasts, 
they  livTs  by  carnage,  and  never  even  accuse  them- 
selves of  cruelty.  They  are  born  and  clever  traders. 
Ivory  is  almost  the  only  article  of  African  commerce 
which  as  yet  yields  much  profit.  It  abounds  all  over 
the  interior,  and  can  be  bought  so  cheaply  there 
that  enormous  profits  arise  from  its  sale  on  the  coast. 
But  it  cannot  walk  itself,  and  there  are  no  trains  or 
beasts  of  burden  to  carry  it.  How  is  it  to  be  got 
to  the   seashore?     If  porters  were  honestly  paid   to 


Ii8 


IVORY  BEHIND  SLAVERY. 


can}'  it,  the  profits  would  be  seriously  diminished  ; 
'ind,  besides,  porters  wcjuld  not  spontaneously  under- 
take the  lon^s  difficult,  and  danc^^erous  journey. 

The  easiest,  cheapest,  and  almost  only  way  to  get 


HONESTLY    TAID    ZANZIKAKI    IVOKY    I'ORTKRS. 

riches  by  this  commerce  is  to  steal  and  ensla\'e  men 
and  women,  manacle  them  that  they  may  not  escape, 


THE  ARAB   PLAN  OF  CAMPAIGN.  119 

load  them  with  the  heavy  tusks,  drive  them  under  the 
lash,  give  them  only  food  enough  to  keep  them  from 
starvation,  shoot  them  if  they  faint  and  drop,  and 
sell  them  as  well  as  their  loads,  when  the  long  journey 
is  ended.     This  is  what  the  Arabs  do. 

How  easy  to  sum  it  all  up  in  a  paragraph  !  How 
awful  to  see  even  a  single  specimen  of  the  practice  ! 
Livingstone  felt  first  faint,  then  furious,  then  in 
despair,  then  "  as  if  he  was  in  hell,"  when  he  un- 
expectedly witnessed  an  Arab  slave  raid  at  Nyangwe 
in  1871.^  Alas  !  such  scenes  are  still  repeated  daily 
all  over  east  Central  Africa  from  Egypt  to  Nyassa- 
land.  It  is  impossible  to  open  a  book  of  travel  in 
these  regions  without  coming  across  accounts  of  scenes 
as  terrible. 

Sir  Samuel  Baker  describes  a  slave-raid  on  the 
White  Nile  as  follows,  and  the  sketch  would  hold 
good  of  many  another  neighbourhood. 

On  arriving  at  the  desired  locality,  the  (piratical)  parly  disembark 
and  proceed  into  the  interior,  until  they  arrive  at  the  village  of  some 
negro  chief,  with  whom  they  establish  an  intimacy.  Charmed  with  his 
new  friends,  the  power  of  whose  weapons  he  acknowledges,  the  negro 
chief  does  not  neglect  the  opportunity  of  seeking  their  alliance  to 
attack  a  hostile  neighbour.  Marching  throughout  the  night,  guided  by 
their  negro  hosts,  they  bivouac  within  an  hour's  march  of  the  unsuspect- 
ing village  doomed  to  an  attack  about  half  an  hour  before  break  of 
day.  The  time  arrives,  and,  quietly  surrounding  the  village  while  its 
occupants  are  still  sleeping,   they  fire  the  grass  huts  in  all  directions, 


'  "It  was  the  demon  that  haunted  the  last  twenty  years  of  his  life  ; 
it  met  him  at  every  turn  and  baffled  him  more  than  once  in  his 
researches." — IIlitcuinson  :  "The  Slave-Trade  of  East  Africa." 


Al-KU 


^ 


1 


122  COMMANDER   CAMERON'S   TESTIMONY. 


and  pour  volleys  of  musketry  through  the  flaming  thatch.  I'anic- 
slrickcn,  the  unfortunate  victims  rusli  from  their  burning  dwellings, 
and  the  men  are  shot  down  like  ])heasanls  in  a  battue  ;  while  the 
women  and  children,  bewildered  in  the  danger  and  confusion,  arc 
kidnapped  and  secured.  They  are  then  fastened  together,  the  former 
secured  in  an  instrument  called  a  shcba,  made  of  a  forked  pole,  the 
neck  of  the  prisoner  fitting  into  the  fork,  secured  by  a  cross  piece 
lashetl  behind,  while  the  wrists,  brought  together  in  front  of  the  body, 
are  tied  to  the  pole.  The  children  are  then  fastened  by  their  necks 
with  a  rope  attached  to  the  women,  and  thus  form  a  living  chain,  in 
which  oriler  they  are  marched  to  the  heacUjuarters  in  company  with 
the  captured  herds. 

The  able-bodied  men  fall  in  large  numbers  in  the 
attempt  to  defend  their  families.  It  is  mostly  the 
young  men,  women,  and  children  who  are  captured 
and  enslaved.  Commander  Camei"on,  who  crossed 
Africa  in  about  the  centre,  writes  of  a  caravan  he 
saw,  led  not  by  Arabs,  but,  with  shame  be  it  said,  by 
Portuguese  : 

Coimbra  arrived  in  the  afternoon  with  a  gang  ot  fifty-two  women, 
tied  together  in  lots  of  seventeen  or  eighteen.  Some  had  children  in 
arms,  others  were  far  advanced  in  pregnancy,  and  all  were  laden  with 
huge  bundles  of  grass  cloth  and  other  plunder.  These  poor,  weary, 
and  footsore  creatures  were  covered  with  weals  and  scars,  showing  how 
unmercifully  cruel  had  been  the  treatment  received  at  the  hands  of 
the  savage  who  had  called  himself  their  owner.  .  .  .  The  misery 
and  loss  of  life  entailed  by  the  capture  of  these  women  is  far  greater 
than  can  be  imagined,  except  by  those  who  have  witnessed  some  such 
heart-rending  scenes.  Indeed  the  cruelties  perpetrated  in  the  heart  of 
Africa  by  men  calling  themselves  Christians  can  scarcely  be  credited  by 
those  living  in  a  civilized  land. 

To  obtain  these  fifty-two  women,  at  least  ten  villages  had  been 
destroyed,  each  having  a  population  of  from  one  to  two  hundred,  or 
about  1,500  in  all.  Some  may,  perchance,  have  escaped  to  neigh- 
bouring villages,  but  the  greater  portion  were  undoubtedly  burnt  when 
their  villages  were  surprised,  shot  whilst  attempting  to  save  their  wives 
and  families,  or  doomed  to  die  of  starvation  in  the  jungles,  unless 
some  wild  beast  put  a  more  speedy  end  to  their  miseries. 


CARDINAL  LAVIGERIE'S    TESTIMONY.  123 

Cardinal  Lavigerie,  the  Roman  Catholic  primate 
of  zA.frica,  and  tlie  eloquent  and  enthusiastic  advocate 
of  the  poor  African's  cause,  says  : 

\\\  that  are  capluied — men,  women,  and  cliiKlren — are  hurried  o(T 
to  some  market  in  the  interior.  Then  commences  for  them  a  series  of 
unspeakable  miseries.  The  slaves  are  on  foot.  The  men  who  appear 
the  strongest,  and  whose  escape  is  to  be  feared,  have  their  hands  tied 
(and  sometimes  their  feet)  in  such  a  fashion  that  moving  becomes  a 
torture  to  them  ;  and  on  their  necks  are  placed  yokes,  which  attach 
several  of  them  together.  They  march  all  day ;  at  night,  when  they 
stop  to  rest,  a  few  handfuls  of  raw  sorg/io  are  distributed  among  the 
captives.     This  is  all  their  food.     Next  morning  they  must  start  again. 

But  after  the  first  day  or  two  the  fatigue,  the  sufferings,  and  the 
privations  have  weakened  a  great  many.  The  women  and  the  aged 
are  the  first  to  halt.  Then,  in  order  to  strike  terror  into  this  miserable 
mass  of  human  beings,  their  conductors,  armed  with  a  wooden  bar  to 
economise  powder,  approach  those  who  appear  to  be  the  most  ex- 
hausted, and  deal  them  a  terrible  blow  on  the  nape  of  the  neck.  The 
unfortunate  victims  utter  a  cry,  and  fall  to  the  ground  in  the  convulsions 
of  death.  The  terrified  troop  immediately  resumes  its  march.  Terror 
has  imbued  even  the  weakest  with  new  strength.  Each  time  some  one 
breaks  down  the  same  horrible  scene  is  repeated.  At  night,  on  arriving 
at  their  halting  place,  after  the  first  days  of  such  a  life,  a  not  less 
frightful  scene  awaits  them.  The  traffickers  in  human  flesh  have 
acquired  by  experience  a  knowledge  of  how  much  their  victims  can 
endure.  A  glance  shows  them  those  who  will  soon  sink  from  weari- 
ness ;  then,  to  economise  the  scanty  food  which  they  distribute,  they 
pass  behind  these  ^^'retched  beings  and  fell  them  with  a  single  blow. 
Their  corpses  remain  where  they  fall,  when  they  are  not  suspended  on 
the  branches  of  the  neighbouring  trees ;  and  it  is  close  to  them  that 
their  companions  arc  obliged  to  eat  and  sleep  as  well  as  they  can. 

Could  anything  exceed  the  horror  of  the  spectacle 
witnessed  by  Stanley  on  his  first  journey  np  the 
Congo  ?  When  he  came  down  it,  on  the  great  voyage 
of  discovery,  which  introduced  it,  alas  !  to  the  xA.rabs 
as  well  as  to  Europe,  he  had  seen  large  and  flourishing 
towns  near  the   mouth  of  the  Aruwimi.     When    he 


124  HENRY  M.   STANLEY'S   TESTIMONY. 

returned  four  years  later,  he  saw  signs  of  some  great 
change — desolation  instead  of  prosperous  population, 
charred  ruins  instead  of  busy  villages.  We  have 
not  space  to  quote  his  touching  story  of  what  followed 
in  full.  ])ut  we  must  give  enough  of  it  to  convey  an 
impression  of  the  facts. 

Every  three  ur  four  miles  we  came  in  siglit  of  the  lilack  traces  ot 
the  destroyers.  The  charred  stakes  of  once  populous  seltkments, 
scorched  banana  groves,  and  prostrate  palms,  all  betokened  ruthless  ruin. 

At  four  p.m.  we  halted  at  a  camp  in  a  plain  just  above  the  devastated 
site  of  Yavunga.  We  had  passed,  since  leaving  the  Biycrre,  twelve 
villages  utterly  consumed  by  fire. 

Not  one  house  was  visible,  although  the  extensive  clearing  indicated 
that  Yaporo  had  been  populous.  This  would  have  been  evident  even 
had  I  not  remembered  that  I  had  seen  a  large  and  long  extended  town 
here.  A  mile  above  we  detected  some  object,  of  a  slaty  colour,  floating 
down  the  stream.  The  En  Avant  steamed  towards  it,  and  the  man 
with  the  sounding  pole  at  the  bow,  on  arriving  near  it,  turned  it  over 
with  a  boat-hook.  \Vc  were  shocked  to  discover  the  bodies  of  two 
women,  bound  together  with  cords  !  The  tragedy,  by  the  appearance 
of  the  bodies,  must  have  occurred  about  twelve  hours  previously. 

Wondering  what  could  have  been  the  cause  of  the  committal  of  such 
a  crime,  we  continued  to  follow  the  shore,  until  we  came  to  the  upper 
end  of  the  crescent  bend.  At  the  close  of  an  hour  we  were  rounding 
the  point,  when,  looking  up  the  river  hastily,  we  saw  a  white  mass  front- 
ing the  landing-place  of  a  village.  I  caught  up  my  glass  and  examined 
it.  Others  appeared  in  a  group,  as  we  edged  towards  the  centre  of 
the  stream.     They  were  icnts ;  the  Arabs  of  Nyangwe  ! 

They  were  in  considerable  force,  for  their  camp,  or  village,  was  evi- 
dently large  enough  for  a  great  number,  and  a  rough  palisade  seemed  to 
surround  it.  We  formed  ourselves  in  line,  and  advanced  up  river.  As 
we  drew  near  I  observed  through  the  telescope  that  our  presence  excited 
a  commotion  on  the  banks,  which  became  lined  with  a  multitude  of 
men  in  white  dress,  who  acted  as  if  flurried.  I  also  saw  a  large  number 
of  canoes  fastened  to  the  landing-place,  which  revealed  at  once  the 
secret  of  the  sudden  midnight  suri)risals.  These  peo])le  had  in  some 
manner  descended  the  river  from  Nyangwe,  past  the  falls. 


A   HUMAN  HARVEST.  125 

We  discovered  that  this  horde  of  banditti — for  in  reality  and  without 
disguise  they  were  nothing;  else — was  under  the  leadership  of  several 
chiefs.  They  had  started  sixteen  months  previously  from  below  Vinja 
Njara.  For  eleven  months  the  band  had  been  raiding  successfully  be- 
tween the  Congo  and  the  Lubiranzi,  on  the  left  bank.  They  had  then 
undertaken  to  perform  the  same  cruel  work  between  the  Biyerre  and 
Wane  Kirundu.  On  looking  at  my  map  I  find  that  the  area  described 
would  be  equal  to  34,570  square  miles,  just  2,000  square  miles  greater 
than  the  island  of  Ireland,  and  is  inhabited  by  about  one  million  of 
people. 

*  *  #  *  ♦ 

After  spending  the  morning  listening  to  such  of  their  adventures  as 
they  chose  to  relate,  I  was  permitted  in  the  afternoon  to  see  the  human 
harvest  they  had  gathered,  as  many  of  my  people  had  exaggerated  the 
numbers  of  the  captives  they  had  seen  in  the  cainp. 

Their  quarters  were  about  150  yards  above  the  place  we  had  selected. 
It  was  surrounded  with  a  fence  made  of  the  hut  walls  of  the  native 
town  of  Yangambi,  which  lay  without  in  ruins  ;  in  length  the  camp  was 
about  300  yards. 

The  first  general  impressions  are  that  the  camp  is  much  too  densely 
peopled  for  comfort.  There  are  rows  upon  I'ows  of  dark  nakedness, 
relieved  here  and  there  by  the  white  dresses  of  the  captors  ;  there  are 
lines  or  groups  of  naked  forms,  upright,  standing,  or  moving  about 
listlessly ;  naked  bodies  are  stretched  under  the  sheds  in  all  positions, 
naked  legs  innumerable  are  seen  in  the  perspective  of  prostrate  sleepers; 
there  are  countless  naked  children,  many  mere  infants,  forms  of  boy- 
hood and  girlhood,  and  occasionally  a  drove  of  absolutely  naked  old 
women,  bending  under  a  basket  of  fuel,  or  cassava  tubers,  or  bananas, 
who  are  driven  through  the  moving  groups  Ijy  two  or  three  musketeers. 

On  paying  more  attention  to  details  I  observe  that  mostly  all  are 
fettered.  Youths,  with  iron  rings  around  their  necks,  through  v.hich  a 
chain  like  one  of  our  boat  anchor  chains  is  rove,  securing  the  captives 
by  twenties.  The  children  over  ten  are  secured  by  three  copper  rings, 
each  ringed  right  leg  brought  together  by  the  central  ring.  The 
mothers  are  secured  by  shorter  chains,  around  which  their  respective 
progeny  of  infants  are  grouped,  hiding  the  cruel  iron  links  that  fall  in 
loops  or  festoons  over  their  breasts.  There  is  not  one  adult  man  captive 
amongst  them  ! 

***** 

The  slave-traders  admit  that  they  have  only  2.300  captives  in  liris 


126  INSIDE   THE  SLAVERS''   CAMP. 

fold,  yet  tlicy  have  raided  through  the  length  and  breadth  of  a  country 
larger  than  Ireland,  liearing  Ine  and  spreading  carnage  with  lead  ami 
iron,  lioth  lianks  of  the  river  show  that  iiS  villages  and  forty-three 
districts  have  been  devastated,  out  of  wliich  is  only  educed  this  scant 
profit  of  2,300  females  and  children,  and  about  2,000  tusks  of  ivory  ! 
The  spears,  swords,  bows,  and  the  quivers  of  arrows  show  that  niany 
adults  have  fallen,  (liven  that  these  118  villages  were  peopled  only 
by  1,000  each,  we  have  slain  11,800  and  only  a  profit  of  huo  per  cent. 
By  the  time  all  these  captives  have  been  sulijected  to  the  accidents  of 
the  river  voyage  to  Kirundu  and  Nyangwe,  of  camp  life  and  its  harsh 
miseries,  to  the  havoc  of  small-pox,  and  the  pests  which  miseries  breed, 
theie  will  only  j-einain  a  scant  o/ie  fier  cent,  upon  the  bloody  venture'. 

Tliey  tell  nie,  however,  that  the  convoys  already  arrived  at  Nyangwe 
with  slaves  captured  in  the  interior  have  been  as  great  as  their  present 
band.  Five  expeditions  have  come  and  gone  with  their  booty  of  ivory 
and  slaves,  and  tliese  five  expeditions  have  now  completely  weeded  the 
large  territory  described  above.  If  each  expedition  has  been  as  success- 
ful as  this,  the  slave-traders  have  been  enabled  to  obtain  5,000  women 
and  children  and  take  them  safe  to  Nyangwe.  These  5,000,  out  of  an 
assumed  million,  will  be  at  the  rate  of  a  half  per  cent.,  or  five  slaves  out 
of  1,000  people. 

•::■  ■!***» 

If  the  al)ovc  figures  are  trustworthy,  then  the  outcome  rom  the  terri- 
tory with  its  million  of  souls  js  5,000  slaves  obtained  at  the  cruel  expense 
of  33,000  lives  !  And  such  slaves  !  They  are  females  or  young  children 
who  cannot  run  away,  or  who,  with  youthful  indifference,  will  soon 
forget  the  terrors  of  their  capture.  Yet  each  of  the  very  smallest  in- 
fants has  cost  the  life  of  a  father,  and  perhaps  his  three  stout  brothers 
and  three  grown  up  daughters.  An  entire  family  of  six  souls  have  been 
done  to  death  to  obtain  that  small,  feeble,  useless  child. 

These  are  my  thoughts  as  I  look  upon  the  horrible  scene.  Every 
second  during  which  I  regard  them  the  clink  of  fetters  and  chains 
strikes  upon  my  ears.  My  eyes  catch  siglit  of  that  continual  lifting  of 
the  hand  to  ease  the  neck  in  the  collar,  or  as  it  displays  a  manacle  ex- 
posed through  a  muscle  being  irritated  by  the  weight  or  want  of  fitness. 
My  nerves  are  offended  with  the  rancid  effluvium  of  the  unwashed  herds 
within  this  human  kennel,  the  smell  of  other  abominations  annoy  me 
in  that  vitiated  atmosphere;  for  how  could  poor  people  bound  and 


''WOLFISH,   BLOODY,   RAVENOUS  INSTINCTS."     127 


riveted  together  by  twenties  do  otherwise  than  wallow  in  fdth  ?  Only 
the  old  women  are  taken  out  to  forage  ;  they  dig  out  the  cassava  tuber 
and  search  for  the  banana,  while  the  guard,  with  musket  ready,  keenly 
watches  for  the  coming  of  the  vengeful  native.  Not  much  food  can  be 
procured  in  this  manner,  and  what  is  obtained  is  flung  down  in  a  heap 
before  each  gang,  to  at  once  cause  an  unseemly  scramble.  Many  of 
these  poor  things  have  been  already  months  fettered  in  this  manner, 
and  their  bones  stand  out  in  bold  relief  in  the  attenuated  skin  which 
hangs  down  in  wrinkles  and  puckers.  And  yet,  who  can  withstand 
the  feeling  of  pity  so  powerfully  pleaded  for  by  those  large  eyes  and 
sunken  cheeks  ? 

What  was  the  cause  of  all  this  vast  sacrifice  of  human  life,  of  all 
this  unspeakable  misery  ?  Nothing  but  the  indulgence  of  an  old  Arab's 
"wolfish,  bloody,  starved,  and  ravenous  instincts."  He  wished  to 
obtain  slaves  to  barter  profitably  away  to  other  Arabs,  and  having 
weapons,  guns,  and  gunpowder  enough,  he  placed  them  in  the  hands 
of  three  hundred  slaves,  and  despatched  them  to  commit  murder  whole- 
sale, just  as  an  English  nobleman  would  put  guns  in  the  hands  of  his 
guests,  and  permit  them  to  slaughter  the  game  upon  his  estate. 

Yes,  that  is  the  explanation  !  It  is  the  old  stoiy  of 
the  wicked  world,  inigJit  against  right !  Give  gun- 
powder in  the  hands  of  lawless  men  let  loose  among 
naked  savages,  and  this  is  the  result. 


Writing  of  the  Blantyre  Mission,  south  of  Lake 
Nyassa,  a  Scotch  missionary  named  Scott  sa}'s  :  "  The 
Arab  slave-trade  is  making  frightful  progress.  Cara- 
vans of  Arabs  are  pouring  in — for  trade  ?  No ! 
Hardly  a  bale  of  cloth  goes  up  country  from  the  East 
Coast ;  it  is  guns  and  powder,  not  even  spirits.  It 
is  simply  slaughter ;  the  slaughter  of  thousands,  and 
the  desolation  of  the  fairest  lands — lands  where  the 
natives  were  at  peace,  where  industry  and  thrift  and 


128 


BEFORE    THE  ARABS    COME. 


w 


"  CLEAN',    KIH.UI.AR,    WKLl.-lil.lI.T   TOWNS." 

happiness  ruled  :  where  to  i^et  through  one  village 
you  might  start  in  the  early  morning  and  not  pass, 
out  of  it  till  the  sun  was  half-way  down,  journej'ing 
straight  on  ;  and  these  are  now  desolate  !  Fresh 
routes  are  opening  up  to  the  Arabs,  and  the  deso- 
lation is  spreading.  It  is  not  slave-trade  ;  it  is 
ruthless  massacre  of  the  most  barbarous  type." 

In  1881  Major  Wissmann  was  travelling  between 
the  Sankulu  and  the  Lomani  among  the  Basonge. 
He  described  their  large  and  well  to  do  towns,  clean, 
regular,  well  built,  and  peaceful.  The  people  were 
confiding  and  kind.  From  half-past  six  in  the 
morning  till  eleven  o'clock  were  spent  in  simply 
walking  through  the  long-extended  town  of  Bagna 
Besihi,  and  there  were  many  such  places — continuous 
streets  of  houses  for  eight  or  ten  miles,  all  inhabited 
by  kind,  friendly  people.     Of  the  people  he  wrote  : 


.-/    TRAIL    OF  BONES  AND  BLOOD.  129 

"They  lived  in  beautiful  villages,  miles  in  length,  cultivated  the 
lanil,  and  excelled  in  the  manufacture  of  cloth,  pottery,  iron  articles, 
and  wood  carving.  To  the  east  of  these  tribes,  however,  I  found  that, 
in  consequence  of  a  recent  inroad  of  the  Arabs  of  Nyangwe,  the 
villages  had  been  deserted.  The  Basonge  have  never  yet  seen  an 
Arab,  nor  heard  the  report  of  a  gun  ;  but  I  am  afraid  their  fate  is 
sealed." 

His  proqfnostication  proved,  alas  !  only  too  correct ! 
Four  years  later  he  revisited  the  scene  in  company 
with  others. 

Once  more  we  camped  near  the  large  town  of  the  Bagna  Pesihi. 
Early  on  the  following  morning  we  approached  its  palm  groves.  The 
paths  are  no  longer  clean,  as  they  used  to  be.  A  dense  growth  of  grass 
covers  them,  and  as  we  approach  the  skirt  of  the  groves  we  are  struck 
l)y  the  dead  silence  which  reigns.  No  laughter  is  to  be  heard,  no  sign 
of  a  welcome  from  our  old  friends.  The  silence  of  death  breathes 
over  the  lofty  crowns  of  the  palms,  slowly  waving  in  the  wind.  We 
enter,  and  it  is  in  vain  we  look  to  the  right  and  left  for  the  happy  home- 
steads and  the  happy  old  scenes.  Tall  grass  covers  everything,  and 
a  charred  pole  here  and  there,  and  a  few  banana  trees,  are  the  only 
evidences  that  man  once  dwelt  here.  Bleached  skulls  by  the  roadside, 
and  the  skeletons  of  human  hands  attached  to  poles,  tell  the  story  of 
what  has  happened  here  since  our  last  visit. 

The  Bagna  Pesihi — nay,  the  whole  tribe  of  the  Bene  Ki — had  ceased 
to  exist.  Only  a  few  remnants  of  this  once  powerful  tribe,  so  we  were 
told,  had  sought  a  refuge  with  a  chief  on  the  Sankulu,  named  Zappu 
Tapp,  himself  a  refugee  from  Arab  aggression. 

You  may  readily  imagine  the  indignation  with  which  the  sights  we 
saw  filled  us,  and  the  detestation  in  which  I  hold  such  wholesale 
destroyers  of  human  life  and  happiness.  Day  after  day  7ve  iuei-e  called 
upon  to  -lOitness  the  same  abhorrent  scenes  until  one  day,  on  the  banks  of 
the  Lukasi,  we  came  upon  a  camp  of  these  Arabs.  They  numbered 
three  thousand  men,  and  their  leader  was  Sayol,  one  of  the  lieutenants 
of  Tippu  Tib.  It  was  w'ith  difliculty  that  I  led  my  people  thus  far,  for 
they  had  suffered  much  hunger  when  crossing  depopulated  districts. 
We  had  lived  on  the  pith  of  palm  trees,  and  even  fruits  reputed  to  be 
poisonous  were  not  despised  ;  yet  hardly  a  day  passed  without  one  of  my 
faithful  Baluba  dropping  down  dead  from  exhaustion.  Only  he  \\\\o 
was  responsible  for  the  lives  of  his  subordinates  can  appreciate  w  hat  I 

C.  A.  9 


130        TESTIMONY  OF  THE  " P/iRES  BLANCS." 


siilTered  in  these  dark  days.  And  whose  the  guilt,  hut  of  tliose  devas- 
tators of  regions  which  jjcfore  their  appearance  couM  be  traversed  in 
security  by  caravans  numl)ering  tiieir  thousands  ? 

I  paid  a  visit  to  Sayol's  camp.  A  scaffolding  of  beams,  at  its  entrance, 
was  ornamented  with  fifty  hewn-off  right  hands.  Musket-shots,  later 
on,  proclaimed  tliat  the  leader  of  this  gang  was  practising  musketry 
ujion  his  unfortunate  prisoners.  Some  of  my  men  told  me  that  the 
victims  of  this  cruelty  had  been  cut  up  immediately  to  furnish  a  cannibal 
ftast  for  Tippu  Tib's  auxiliaries  from  the  Lomami. 

Cardinal  Lavigcric  is  the  director  of  the  Roman 
Catholic  missions  in  the  Dark  Continent,  missions  in 
the  prosecution  of  which  much  devotion  and  heroism 
have  been  exhibited,  and  which  appear  in  Uganda 
at  least  to  have  made  real  converts.  The  sincerity 
of  these  Pa-es  Blancs  seems  evinced  by  the  fact  that 
eleven  of  them  have  suffered  martyrdom  and  more 
than  fifty  have  died  from  fatigue  and  hardship. 
Cardinal  Lavigerie  says  of  them  : 

They  have  seen  \\  itli  llieir  own  eyes,  in  the  course  of  ten  years,  whole 
provinces  absolutely  depopulated  by  the  massacres  of  the  slave-hunters, 
and  each  day  they  are  obliged  to  witness  scenes  which  point  to  the 
rapid  extinction  of  the  race.  In  the  last  letter  which  I  have  received 
from  Tanganyika,  dated  in  March  last,  they  tell  me  that  every  day 
they  see  caravans  of  slaves  arriving,  and  that  every  day  they  see  boats 
crossing  the  lake,  loaded  almost  to  sinking  with  their  freight  of  human 
chattels.  They  tell  me,  particularly,  of  the  province  of  Manyuema, 
■which  at  the  time  of  the  death  of  Livingstone  was  rich  in  ivorj'  and 
population,  but  which  the  slave-hunters  have  now  reduced  to  a  desert, 
seizing  the  ivory,  and  reducing  the  inhabitants  to  slavery  in  order 
that  they  may  carry  the  ivory  to  the  coast,  after  which  their  cap- 
tives would  be  sold.  The  contempt  for  human  life  engendered  by 
such  examples  as  these,  and  by  the  passions  of  the  slave-hunters,  is  so 
great  that  you  can  imagine  nothing  more  horrible.  An  excess  of  cruelty 
causes  them  to  make  use  towards  men  of  terms  hitherto  reserved  for 
wild  beasts — it  is  all  of  a  piece  with  the  custom  of  Central  Africa  ;  for 
the  blacks  themselves,  Avhen  they  have  slaves,  adopt  the  terms  of  the 


AWFUL  EXTENT  OF  DEVASTATION. 


slave-hunlers,  and  call  them  by  no  other  name  than  "my  beafit,"  "my 
animal." 

The  unfortunate  people  who  are  captured  for  slaves  are  treated  like 
beasts — men,  women,  and  children  ;  listen  to  these  words,  you  who 
are  Christians,  they  are  treated  like  beasts — the  horror  of  their  situation 
passes  all  imagination  ;  they  are  hunted  like  animals,  and  when  they 
are  caught  are  compelled  to  bow  under  a  yoke  :  their  heads  are  forcibly 
thrust  between  the  space  made  by  a  small  triangular-shaped  piece  of 
bent  wood  attached  to  a  long  pole,  and  so  they  are  driven. 

A  map  of  Africa,  in  which  the  chstricts  Jiarassed  by 
tlie  slave-raiders  and  those  depopulated  by  them  are 
distinctively  coloured,  tells  by  means  of  the  eye  a 
sad  tale  to  the  heart !  Between  the  Sahara  and  the 
Zambesi  the  country  not  invaded  by  them  is  far  less 
than  that  disfigured  by  their  blood-red  tracks  and 
dull  stains.  The  amount  of  human  woe  intimated 
is  absolutely  inconceivable  !  The  entire  Soudan  is 
abandoned  to  them  and  enslaved  by  them  ;  the 
Equatorial  Province,  so  long  and  so  nobly  held  by 
Emin  Pasha,  having  fallen,  1,500  miles  of  country 
from  Khartoum  to  Uganda  is  at  their  mercy.  The 
waters  of  the  Congo  in  the  northern  part  of  its  course 
divide  Africa  for  a  thousand  miles  roughly  into  two 
halves.  Eastern  and  Western.  The  Eastern  half  is 
all  harassed  by  the  Arabs,  and  they  have  penetrated 
far  enough  into  the  Western  to  join  hands  with  the 
Portuguese  slave-traders  like  Coimbra,  alluded  to 
above. 

But  we  must  not    multiply   quotations,   thougli    it 
would,  alas!  be  all  too  easy  to  fill  with  similar  extracts 
a  volume  larger  than  this !     Cameron  has  summed  up  ' 
the  state  of  things  in  a  sentence :  "  Africa  is  bleed- 


1  HE  niWSSEI.S   CONJ-ENENCE. 


ing  out  her  life  blood  at  every  pore.  Should  the 
present  state  of  affairs  be  allowed  to  continue,  the 
countr)'  will  [gradually  relapse  into  jungles  and  wilds," 

God  has  appointed  government  for  the  punishment 
of  evil-doers,  and  Africa's  anguish  arises  from  the 
lack  of  this.  Hitherto  diabolical  evil-doers  have  had 
things  all  their  own  way  in  the  Dark  Continent,  and 
they  ha\e  depopulated  whole  districts  of  enormous 
extent. 

Europe  is  now  at  last  undertaking  and  attempting 
to  govern  Africa  for  its  own  good,  to  protect  its 
weak  and  helpless  children  alike  from  domestic 
t)'rann)'  and  alien  spoliation.  Christians  should  trace 
the  hand  of  God  in  this,  and  sympathise  with  cvei}- 
effort,  no  matter  by  what  nation  it  is  made,  which 
promises  to  evoke  order  out  of  chaos.  They  should 
earnestly  pray  for  the  prosperity  of  the  attempt  to 
restrain  lawless  violence  in  Africa  ;  for  unless  the 
Arab  slave-trade  can  be  arrested,  the  continent  cannot 
be  civilized,  or  colonized  in  its  healthy  districts,  or 
developed  in  any  way,  or,  above  all,  evangelized. 

All  efforts  to  ameliorate  the  existing  state  of  things 
having  proved  unavailing,  and  the  Arab  traders 
increasing  everywhere  in  bold  aggressiveness,  a  con- 
ference of  the  European  powers  now  engaged  in  the 
government  of  various  parts  of  Africa  was  summoned 
at  Brussels  in  the  autumn  of  1S89.  The  result  of  its 
deliberations  has  not  }'et  been  made  public.  What- 
ever they  may  be,  there  is  good  reason  to  hope  that 
any  repressive  measures  which  may  be  decided  on 


PROPOSED  RESOLUTIONS.  133 

will  be  rendered  effective  by  united  action,  without 
which  little  can  be  done. 

Our  valued  friend  Mr.  Francis  W.  Fox,  the  delegate 
of  the  Aborigines  Protection  Society,  wrote  to  the 
Times  a  letter,  which  Lord  Salisbury  desired  should 
be  read  to  the  conference,  and  which  indicates  some 
of  the  resolutions  which  will  probably  be  adopted 
■He  proposeci  that, 

iJearing  in  mind  the  general  principles  which  should  actuate  the 
operations  of  the  stronger  powers  in  their  dealings  with  the  weaker 
and  unprotected  races  of  Africa,  the  conference  might  agree  to  declare 
that  in  all  the  respective  territories  and  spheres  of  influence  in  Africa 
of  the  several  powers — 

1.  That  the  slave-trade  is  illegal  and  punishable. 

2.  That  within  these  areas  all  slaves  may  claim  manumission  papers. 

3.  That  all  systems  of  apprenticeship  and  forced  labour  should  be 
illegal  in  the  same  areas. 

4.  That  all  the  powers  shall  actively  co-operate  and  assist  in  seeing 
these  conditions  are  carried  out. 

5.  That  no  slave  arriving  at  the  boundary  of  a  territory  under  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  signatory  powers  shall  be  surrendered,  unless  as  a 
criminal. 

6.  To  follow  up  proclamation  of  illegality  of  the  import  of  slaves 
into  territories  under  nominal  sovereignty  of  the  Sultan  of  Zanzibar  by 
declaration  oi  freedom  ivithont  compensation  in  the  islands  of  Pemba, 
Zanzibar,  Mafia,  etc.,  and  of  freedom  under  arbitration  in  other  areas, 
the  "quasi-slave  "  to  work  out  portion  of  the  redemption. 

7.  Arbitration  courts  to  be  international. 

8.  The  powers  to  instruct  their  respective  consular  or  authorized 
agents  to  publish  in  every  part  of  their  respective  territories  the  pro- 
clamation of  the  illegality  of  the  slave-trade,  and  of  the  conditions  on 
which  slaves  may  obtain  their  freedom. 

9.  That  as  the  general  consensus  of  opinion  of  the  best  men  in  the 
several  countries  represented  at  the  conference  is  that  the  importation 
of  spirits  and  ardent  liquors,  and  the  indiscriminate  trade  in  firearms 
and  ammunition,  has  been,  and  is,  a  great  curse  and  injury  to  the 
native  races  of  Africa,  this  conference  recommends  the  prohibition  of 


134  POSSIBILITY  OF  PREVENTION. 

the  importation  of  all  spirits,  ardent  liquors,  fire-arms,  and  amnuuiilion, 
exceptinjj  under  strict  and  clearly  defined  limitations. 

But  even  should  the  conference  adopt  resolutions 
similar  to  these,  and  others  equally  admirable,  the 
<^rand  difficulty  of  carryin<^  them  into  effect  will 
remain.  ]''or  this  there  is  but  one  remedy,  the 
speedy  improvement  of  the  means  of  communication 
all  over  Africa.  Without  this,  the  best  laws  will  be 
useless,  because  they  cannot  be  executed.  Without 
this,  IcL^itimatc  trade  cannot  be  made  as  profitable  as 
slavery,  or  more  so,  to  the  Arabs  ;  and  till  this  can  be 
done  they  will  hardly  abandon  their  present  lucrative 
traffic. 

But  as  Africa  has  so  magnificent  an  international 
river  system,  on  which  steamers  can  ply  for  many 
thousands  of  miles,  besides  its  great  inland  seas, 
rapid  communication  is  by  no  means  so  impossible 
as  it  might  seem.  Four  short  lengths  of  railway 
would  render  available  the  whole  of  the  inland  navi- 
gation, and  one  of  the  four  is  already  in  hand. 

1.  From  Matadi  to  Stanley  Pool,  about  270  miles. 

2.  From  Mombasa  to  the  Victoria  Nyanza,  about 
400  miles. 

3.  From  Suakim  to  Berber,  270  miles. 

4.  From  the  Zambesi  to  Lake  Nyassa,  say  2<x>  miles. 
With  these  four  railroads,  and  steamers  on  all  the 

lakes,  Africa  could  be  so  far  guarded  as,  on  the  one 
hand,  to  prevent  the  slave-trade  to  a  great  extent, 
while,  on  the  other,  her  commerce  would  be  so 
facilitated  that  the  temptation  to  make  slave  caravans 
would  be  rcmoN'cd. 


AFRICAN  DOMESTIC  SLAVERY.  135 


Such  railroads  would  scarcely  be  constructed  by 
private  capital.  But  governmental  security  might 
be  given  by  a  national  guarantee  of  interest.  The 
railroads  would  pay  in  course  of  time,  and  meanwhile 
incalculable  benefits  would  accrue  to  poor  Africa. 


It  must  be  remembered  that  not  all  the  slavery 
in  the  Dark  Continent  lies  at  the  door  of  the  Arabs 
and  Portuguese.  To  an  enormous  extent  the  people 
enslave  each  other.  It  is  the  very  atmosphere  of 
Africa  !     Slavery  is  indigenous. 

But  the  domestic  slavery  in  Africa  is  in  some  or 
its  aspects  not  bad,  indeed,  it  might  almost  be  called 
good.  It  averts  a  great  deal  of  bloodshed,  and  is  the 
lesser  of  two  evils.  The  recognition  of  a  right  to 
sell  captives  and  criminals  suggests  an  alternative  to 
immediate  execution.  Such  slaves,  if  not  sent  to  the 
sea  or  to  any  great  distance,  suffer  but  little.  They 
become  family  dependants,  or  agricultural  labourers, 
and  often  grow  rich. 

But  there  is  one  horrible  aspect  of  even  native 
slavery  which  requires  stern  repression  by  all  the 
European  powers  who  rule  in  Africa.  It  is  the  reck- 
less murder  of  slaves  at  funerals,  to  which  we  have 
alluded.  This  terrible  custom,  based  on  the  super- 
stition that  the  life  after  death  in  another  world  is 
just  like  this  life,  leads  to  the  most  hideous  butchery. 
A  great  man  must  have  a  retinue  of  wives  and  slaves 
to  attend  him  in  the  other  life,  a  lesser  man  fewer  ;  a 
king  or  a  queen  scores,  and  even  sometimes  hundreds. 


136  SLAIKRY  ON   THE  NIGER. 


Slaves  arc  bought  and  kept  for  the  occasion,  and  their 
master's  death  becomes  the  signal  of  their  own.  This 
evil  is  deejjly  ingrained  all  (jver  savage  Africa,  but 
it  can  be  suppressed  by  lCur(Ji)ean  influence.  The 
Congo  Free  State  is  bent  on  eradicating  the  practice, 
and  is  succeeding  to  s(jme  extent  in  diminishing 
these  funereal  murders.  Sir  James  Marshall  and 
Judge  Kane  have  recently  begun  to  sui)press  it  in  the 
dominions  of  the  Niger  Compau}'.  Ikit  the)'  found 
that  moral  inOuence  would  not  do  it.  The  people 
jjromised  not  to  have  these  executions,  and  had  them 
all  the  same.  A  little  firmness  and  severity  however 
soon  settled  the  question.  One  murderer  was  caught 
and  hanged,  and  one  guilty  village  destroyed.  Then 
the  chiefs  sued  for  peace,  and  promised  there  should 
be  no  more  killing  of  slaves.  They  eagerly  accepted 
a  treaty  with  the  government,  the  first  article  of  which 
was  the  cessation  of  human  sacrifices.  The  results  of 
this  treaty  were  soon  seen. 

A  few  days  after  peace  lia-.l  l)een  made,  Mr.  Taylor  informed  us  that 
two  slaves  had  come  in  as  a  deputation  from  the  slaves  of  Asaba,  wlio 
■wished  to  thank  the  white  men  for  what  they  had  done  for  them. 
Ilavini,'  prostrated  themselves  so  that  their  foreheads  touched  the 
ground,  which  is  the  salutation  of  slaves,  the  spokesman  said  that  at 
first  the  slaves  could  not  believe  that  the  war  was  made  for  them  ;  that 
they  had  been  kept  like  fowls  and  goats  by  their  masters,  who  took 
them  out  when  they  pleased  to  be  killed ;  but  that  now  they  knew  they 
would  be  protected,  and  the  slaves  of  Asaba  sent  them  to  thank  us. 
I  assured  them  that  the  war  was  made  on  their  account,  and  that,  it 
necessary,  the  white  man  would  fight  again  for  them,  and  that  it  would 
be  their  own  fault  if  they  submitted  to  these  cruelties  any  more.  The 
poor  fellows  immediately  prostrated  again,  and  on   leaving  the  older 


"MY  HEART  FEELS  BIG." 


137 


man  stretched  out  liis  arms  as  wide  as  tliey  would  go,  and  said,  "  My 
heart  feels  as  big  as  this.  .  .  .  Now  we  feci  we  are  men,  and  not 
beasts."  The  success  of  this  enterprise  against  the  chief  alnise  of 
domestic  slavery  in  Africa  shows  clearly  what  may  be  done  among 
natives  who  have  not  come  into  contact  with  the  Arab  traders,  and 
how  a  judicious  admixture  of  moral  inllucnce  and  of  vigorous  measures 
may  mitigate  the  worst  features  of  the  slavery  that  exists  among  the 
natives  themselves. ' 

Every  one  felt  delighted  at  such  a  happy  ending  to  the  war  which 
had  freed  the  slaves  from  being  used  as  human  sacrifices.  It  was  not 
only  at  Asaba  that  the  blow  \vas  felt  ;  it  was  a  lesson  which  the  chiefs 
and  slave-holders  in  all  the  surrounding  neighbourhood  will  not  forget. 


On  the  Mobangi  and  some  of  its  tributaries  canni- 
balism is  rife,  and  from  the  southern  affluents  of  the 
Upper  Congo  boat-loads  of  poor  victims  destined  to 
be  fattened  for  food  are  constantly  passing  down  to 
the  market.  One  way  of  disposing  of  criminals  is  to 
sell  them. 

^  "Cardinal  Lavigerie  and  .Slavery  in  Africa,"  p.  327. 


:^  m 


'.J^I9^ 


•^^ 


CHAPTER   VII. 
EUROPE'S  SIN  AND  AFRICA'S  SORROW. 

If  Africa's  first  misery  be  the  slave-trade  as  carried 
oil  by  the  Arabs,  her  second  is  the  rum-trade  as  carried 
on  by  the  Enghsh,  Germans,  Dutch,  and  Americans. 
The  horrors  arising  from  imported  h'quor  in  Africa 
are  indescribable  and  almost  incredible.  North, 
South,  East,  and  West  alike  is  the  fatal  traffic  blight- 
ing the  coast  nations  of  the  continent,  and  the  interior 
also,  if  the  traders  can  reach  it.  In  Egypt  and  at  the 
Cape,  at  Zanzibar  and  in  the  Gulf  of  Guinea,  on  the 
Nile  and  on  the  Niger  alike,  the  white  man's  vile 
rum  is  degrading,  demoralizing,  and  destroying  the 
natives.  In  Canada  it  is  a  crime  to  sell  or  give  drink 
to  the  Red  Indians.  In  Africa  the  trade  is,  alas  ! 
unrestricted. 

None  of  us  are  ignorant  of  the  horrible  results  of 
the  unrestrained  drink  traffic  in  Great  Britain.  We 
know  that  alcohol  slays  directly  or  indirectly  its 
120,000  victims  year  by  year,  and  that  it  is  responsible 
for  nine-tenths  of  the  crime,  pauperism,  misery,  and 
cruelty  of  our  great  cities.     What  can  be  done  to 

restrain  its  deadly  ravages  in  Christian  countries  is  a 

13S 


THE  FATAL  FIRE-WATER.  139 


grave  question.  But  there  is  a  question  which  is 
graver  still.  What  can  be  done  to  stop  its  worst 
ravages  in  heathen  lands,  among  the  native  races  of 
Africa,  India,  Polynesia,  and  other  uncivilized  or 
semi-civilized  countries,  where  it  is  being  introduced 
by  traders  who  call  themselves  Christians  ? 

Merchants  of  many  nations,  especially  those  of 
Great  Britain,  Holland,  German}-,  and  the  United 
States,  have  for  many  }-ears  been  forcing  on  the  weak 
and  ignorant  races  of  Africa  rum  and  brandy,  which 
are  to  these  peoples  not  only  a  curse,  but  a  madden- 
ing poison.  This  they  have  done  for  the  sake  of  the 
enormous  profits  arising  from  the  sale  of  cheap  and 
bad  spirits,  profits  amounting  in  many  cases  to  seven 
hundred  per  cent.  They  are  doing  it  every  year  to  a 
larger  extent.  Vast  capital  is  invested  in  the  trade  ; 
every  opportunity  for  extending  it  is  eagerly  sought, 
and  the  right  to  spread  this  blighting  curse  on  the 
earth  is  claimed  in  the  name  of  free  trade.  The 
heathen  have  their  ponibe  and  their  palm  wine,  and 
get  mildly  drunk  on  these  without  our  help  ;  but  the 
moment  they  come  in  contact  with  Christian  civiliza- 
tion, the  fierce  and  fatal  fire-water  is  freely  supplied  to 
them,  they  fall  before  the  enticing  temptation,  drink 
with  mad  delight,  get  rapidly  demoralized,  and  die. 

The  trade  in  this  baneful  article  is  enormous. 
Incredible  quantities  of  it  are  introduced  into  Africa. 
Some  tribes  have  been  entirely  extirpated  through  its 
use.  The  report  of  the  Government  commission  on 
the  liquor  traffic  at  the  Cape  presents  the  evidence 
of  ex-governors,  native  chiefs,  English  bishops,  magis- 


I40  THE   riJiA    01'    THE   PERISHING. 


tratcs  and  iiisiK'Ctors,  doctors,  missionaries,  and  others 
who  all  j^nvc  testimony  against  this  licjuor  traffic, 
and  agree  that  the  natives  are  being  destroyed  for 
lucre  s  sake. 

These  uncivilized  people  have  neither  the  strength 
of  mind  to  avoid  this  snare,  nor  the  physical  stamina 
to  withstand  the  poison.  They  are  often  painfully 
conscious  of  the  fact,  and  entreat  the  Government  in 
pity  to  remove  from  them  the  awful  but  irresistible 
temptation,  whose  dire  results  they  dread,  but  whose 
fascinating  attraction  they  cannot  resist.  Recently, 
for  instance,  a  large  deputation  from  a  tribe  of  Kaffirs 
besought  the  Government  in  Cape  Town  not  to  permit 
canteens  for  the  sale  of  liquor  among  them,  urging 
that  their  people  were  being  fast  destroyed  by  it, 
both  morally  and  physically.  Mr.  Moir,  of  the  African 
Lakes  Trading  Company  (which  has  made  a  noble 
stand  against  this  curse),  reports  having  seen  boys  and 
girls  of  fourteen  or  fifteen  years  old  getting  their 
wages  in  this  poison  ;  and  others  mention  having  seen 
thousands  of  black  girls  lying  drunk  around  the 
traders'  canteens  from  which  the  liquor  is  sold. 

An  intense  desire  to  shake  off  the  drunkenness 
which  is  the  consec[uence  of  contact  with  civilization 
has  arisen  in  several  densely  populated  parts  of  Africa. 
The  natives  of  the  Diamond  Fields  implored  the  Cape 
Parliament  to  have  public-houses  removed  from  them, 
but  their  petition  was  cruelly  rejected.  The  Malagasy, 
who  had  received  the  gospel  from^  England,  and 
loved  the  nation  to  whom  they  owed  so  much,  arc 
being  ruined  bv  the  same  curse.     Mauritius  had  be- 


-XATIVEi    UKAWl.NG    TALM-WLNi;. 


142  MADAGASCAli'S  RUM. 


come  a  suc^ar-pji'owint^  coIdh)',  ruin  was  made  from  the 
refuse  of  the  suc^ar  mills,  and  shipi)ed  to  Madac^ascar. 
The  crime  of  the  island,  it  is  recorded,  "  rose  in  one 
short  year  by  leaps  and  bounds  to  a  height  too 
fearful  to  record."  The  native  government  tried  to 
prevent  the  importation.  Ikit  the  merchants  of 
Mauritius  complained,  the  English  officials  interfered, 
and  the  land  is  still  being  deluged  with  misery  and 
crime !  The  young  king  himself  became  a  helpless 
drunkard  and  a  criminal  maniac,  and  the  wrong  done 
to  the  country  remains  unredressed.  The  same  sad 
story,  with  local  variations,  is  true  as  regards  all  the 
native  races  accessible  to  the  trade.  A  deaf  ear  is 
turned  to  the  cries  of  the  unhappy  victims  of  the  lust 
for  riches  ;  the  souls  of  men  are  bartered  for  money. 

Ten  thousand  barrels  of  rum  have  been  distributed 
among  half  a  million  of  people  in  one  year  !  The 
unscrupulous  traders  encourage  the  deadly  taste  for 
intoxicants  among  the  coloured  races,  on  the  ground 
that  trade  is  the  main  point  to  be  considered.  So 
dreadful  arc  the  consequences  of  drink  among  savage 
men,  that  at  Kimberley  the  natives  who  come  to 
work  in  the  diamond  mines  have  to  be  imprisoned 
— locked  into  compounds — after  working  hours,  lest 
they  should  obtain  liquor.  The  Mozambique  tribes 
and  the  ICgyptians  do  not  escape,  though  Islam 
commands  total  abstinence.  Everywhere  the  poison 
stream  is  flowing,  and  the  plague  is  extending  to 
enrich  Christian  traders,  and  destroy  heathen  and 
Mohammadan  peoples. 

The  Sultan  of  Zanzibar  threw  every  obstacle  in  the 


SHORTSIGHTED  rOLICY.  143 

way  of  the  liquor  traffic,  and  forbad  his  own  subjects 
to  deal  in  it  ;  but  he  cannot  prevent  the  subjects 
of  other  nations  from  doing  so,  and  in  Zanzibar 
the  people  are  getting  rapidly  demoralized.  Native 
porters  returning  from  the  interior  are  tempted  to 
spend  in  the  bestial  orgies  of  a  week  the  hardly 
earned  wages  of  a  year ;  and  a  race  remarkably  sus- 
ceptible of  civilizing  influences  is  being  ruined. 

Let  it  be  specially  noted  that  all  this  means  incal- 
culable injur)'  to  England  and  Germany,  as  well  as 
to  Africa.  The  liquor  traffic  is  fatal  to  every  other 
branch  of  commerce.  It  is  a  revenue  raised  at  the 
expense  of  the  lives  of  the  tribes  with  whom  we  trade. 
It  is  a  system  that  threatens  the  extinction  all  trades 
but  one.  Commerce  itself,  to  saj-  nothing  of  religion, 
ought  in  its  own  interest  to  restrict  it.  It  is  favourable 
to  no  industry,  either  native  or  European,  save  that  of 
the  distiller.  It  fills  the  pockets  of  German  and  Dutch 
liquor  sellers,  while  legitimate  trade  and  manufacture 
languish  and  die.  Had  it  never  existed,  there  would 
have  been  from  all  the  countries  we  have  named 
large  demands  for  a  thousand  useful  articles  which 
Europe  supplies,  together  with  a  rapid  development 
of  the  resources  of  uncivilized  states.  But  at  present 
the  "opening  up  of  Africa"  means,  in  most  cases, 
the  opening  of  it  to  European  vices — to  gin,  rum, 
and  gunpowder — almost  to  the  exclusion  of  more 
legitimate  commerce. 

Conventions  with  the  natives  that  they  should  not 
be  thus  ruined  have  in  certain  cases  been  made,  only, 
alas  !  to  be  broken  ;  and   such  a  shameful  breach  of 


144  THE  CASE   IN  EGYPT. 


faith  was  rccenti)'  justified  in  the  Cape  Parliament  by 
a  member  on  tlic  Ljroimd  that  "///£•  vested  rights  of  the 
licensed  victuallers  were  not  to  be  trampled  under  foot 
for  the  sake  of  a  pack  of  blackamoors  !  " 

The  faith  that  the  natives  once  had  in  us  is  being 
rudely  shai<en  and  destroyed,  and  replaced  by  a  belief 
that  the  assurances  of  the  British  Government  arc 
unreliable. 

A  single  manufacturing  firm  in  the  neighbourhood 
of  Boston,  U.S.A.,  recently  undertook  for  a  merchant 
firm  to  produce  for  them  3,000  gallons  of  spirits  a 
day  for  seven  years,  to  be  shipped  to  the  Congo. 

Sir  Charles  Warren  experienced  the  evil  of  this 
trafific  at  the  Cape.     He  says, — 

"  The  blood  of  thousands  of  natives  is  at  present  crying  up  to  Heaven 
against  the  British  race  ;  and  yet  from  motives  of  expediency  we  refuse 
to  take  action." 

Mr.  W.  S.  Caine,  M.P.,  records  his  experience  that 
even  in  Egypt,  for  whose  condition  we  are  to  some 
extent  responsible,  similar  ruin  is  being  wrought. 

"  The  native  races  of  Eg)'pt  are  being  demoralized.  .  .  .  I  went 
to  see  the  khedive  about  it.  .  .  .  lie  said  that  he  had  viewed 
with  grief  and  shame  the  increase  of  jniblic-houses  in  Cairo  and  Egypt 
since  the  British  army  of  occupation  came.  He  said  he  should  like 
to  prohibit  the  sale  altogether.  He  was  a  prohibitionist.  His  religion 
told  him  to  be  so  ;  it  was  an  article  of  his  creed.  But,  he  said,  '  I  am 
powerless.'  I  said,  '  Why  ?  '  He  replied,  '  There  are  capitulations  or 
agreements  wliich  have  been  entered  into  between  the  Turkish  Clovern- 
ment  and  other  powers  for  the  protection  of  European  traders,  and 
under  these  capitulations  //i/'s  liquor  is  forced  upon  them  to  sell  without 
control,  and  so  cheap,  that  you  would  hardly  credit  me  if  I  gave  you 
the  price.'  They  import  cheap  spirits  from  Hamburg  with  a  duty  of 
nine  per  cent.  ;  and  you  can  get  drunk  fur  i\d.,  and  the  natives  for 
less." 


THE  DRINK-JUGGERNAUT.  145 


There  are  two  different  missions  hard  at  work 
among  heathen  races — God's  mission  and  the  devil's  ; 
and  the  devil's  seems  for  the  time  to  be  the  stronger 
of  the  two.  Missionaries  and  Christian  philanthropists 
are  suffering  and  making  sacrifices  to  enlighten,  ele- 
vate, and  save  the  heathen  in  Africa.  At  the  same 
time  hundreds  of  Europeans  and  Americans  are  as 
energetically  working  to  degrade,  brutalize,  and  ruin 
the  native  races. 

Shame  upon   these  men  !     Every  trader  in  poison, 
every   dealer    in    human    destruction    ought    to    be 
branded  with  a  red  mark  of  infamy,  and  punished  as 
his  heartless,  selfish  cruelty  deserves.     Is  it  not  enough 
that  we  should  ruin   our  own  people,  as  we  do  with 
this  trade  in  liquid  fire  and  perdition,  without  extend- 
ing the  ruin  to  other  nations  beyond  the  seas  ?     Have 
we  no  pity  or  humanity?     Are  they  not  our  brothers 
and    sisters  whom  we    are   thus    crushing    under  the 
wheels  of  our  most  accursed  civilization  ?     What  is 
Juggernaut    on    his    monstrous    car    crushing    a    icwi 
hundred  victims   under  his  wheels  to  this    enormous 
man-crushing  machine,  mangling  millions  all  over  the 
world  !     Look  at  that  machine  of  civilization.     Listen 
to  the  thud  of  its  engines,  the  hissing  of  its  steam,  the 
roll  of  its  trains,  the  rush  of  its  steamers.     Thousands 
of  distilleries,  railways,  telegraphs,  steamships,  foreign 
factories,  capitalists,  merchants,  traders  all  at  work,  to 
spread  this  destructive  drink  traffic  to  the  uttermost  ; 
England,  Germany,   Holland,  America,  the  foremost 
Christian  nations  in  the  world  rivalling  each  other  in 
this  dreadful  race  of  death  and  destruction,  brewing 
C.  A.  10 


146  A  7^  WHOSE  DOOR    THE   GUILT  LIES ! 

huniiiiL;  liciuid  antl  sending  it  out  in  streams  to 
madden  heathen  men  and  women.  \Vc  talk  of  the 
wickedness  of  the  heathen  !     What  is  it  to  ours  ? 

They  do  not  know  what  is  right,  but  we  do.  W'c 
arc  cnh'ghtcned,  educated,  civilized ;  and  we  are  strong, 
armed,  irresistible ;  wc  have  the  riches  and  the  re- 
sources of  the  world  at  our  command.  They  are 
ignorant,  unarmed,  and  poor.  Ought  we  not  to  use 
our  knowledge  and  power  to  lift  up  and  bless  these 
less  favoured  children  of  our  common  humanity? 
Instead  of  that,  wc  crush  them  down  into  deeper 
darkness  than  they  knew  before.  Wc  set  up  what 
we  call  protectorates  in  Africa  ;  that  is,  wc  send  out 
our  war-ships,  and  plant  our  European  flags  along 
its  shore.  If  the  natives  resist  us,  we  bombard  their 
villages,  and  burn  their  towns  ;  and  then  we  land  our 
troops,  and  build  our  factories,  and  fill  them  up  to  the 
roofs  with  rum  bottles  and  gin  cases,  and  dri\c  our 
despicable,  selfish  trade  to  the  ruin  of  the  souls  and 
bodies  of  the  people.  All  along  that  West  coast  of 
Africa  wc  have  built  great  warehouses  stocked  with 
guns,  gunpowder,  and  drink.  Wc  have  built  them  at 
every  river's  mouth,  and  far  up  every  navigable  river, 
in  the  interior  of  the  countr}-,  wherever  PLuropcan 
capital  and  power  could  reach  ;  where  the  Senegal, 
the  Gambia,  the  Niger,  and  the  Congo  roll  their 
beneficent  waters  to  the  sea,  there  we  have  set  up 
our  man-murdering  factories,  and  thither  we  send  our 
cargoes  of  deadly  poison. 

Look  at  the  green  boxes  in  those  factories,  packed 
with    gin,    infamousK'   bad    gin    too — scarcch'   fit    to 


THE    TESTIMONY  OF  AN  EYE-WITNESS.  147 

make  paint  with — gin  boxes  by  the  million.  Look 
at  the  demijohns  of  rum,  great  glass  jars  inclosed  in 
wickerwork  filled  up  to  the  brim  with  burning,  mad- 
dening liquor,  rum  jars  by  the  million.  Look  at  them 
in  every  African  village  and  town  all  along  the  coast, 
positively  for  thousands  of  miles,  and  far  away  into 
the  interior.  See  how  the  deadly  trade  eats  like  a 
cancer  into  the  very  vitals  of  the  Dark  Continent. 
See  how  the  rum  bottles  and  gin  cases  lie  as  thick  as 
the  shells  along  its  shore  !  And  the  selfish  trader 
flourishes,  and  the  helpless  native  perishes,  and  devils 
laugh,  and  angels  weep,  because  a  cruel  and  accursed 
civilization  sacrifices  humanity  wholesale, — a  sacrifice 
more  infamous  in  the  light  of  this  nineteenth  cen- 
tur\-  than  was  that  of  blood-stained  Moloch  of  old 
in  the  heathen  ages  that  are  gone. 

Well   may  men   like  the  traveller  Thompson   pro- 
test acrainst  the  abomination  : 


"  In  wandering  through  some  nalive  villages  on  the  Kroo  coast,"  he 
writes,  "  one  feels  as  if  in  a  kind  of  Hades  peopled  by  brutalized 
human  beings,  whose  punishment  it  is  to  be  possessed  by  a  never- 
ending  thirst  for  drink.  On  all  sides  you  are  followed  by  eager  cries 
for  gin,  gin,  always  gin.  Under  their  eager  appearance  one  seems  to 
hear  the  bitter  reproach  :  '  You  see  what  you  Christians  have  made  us. 
You  talk  of  peace  and  goodwill,  and  yet  you  put  devils  into  us  I '  I 
had  travelled  and  suffered  in  Africa,  inspired  by  the  idea  that  I  was 
doing  some  good  to  the  world,  in  opening  up  new  lands  to  commerce 
and  civilization  ;  but  all  my  satisfaction  was  blighted  as  I  felt  that  what 
little  work  I  had  done  had  better  have  been  undone,  and  Africa  still 
remain  the  Dark  Continent,  if  such  was  to  be  the  end  of  it  all  !  For 
me,  as  things  stand  in  many  places,  I  am  inclined  to  translate  this  cry 
of  the  opening  up  of  Africa  to  civilization,  as  really  being  the  opening 
up  of  it  to  European  vices,  old  clothes,  gin,  rum,  gunpowder,  and 
guns." 


N.VnVKS    (){■     rilF,    KKOO    COAST   GOING    OUT   TO    MEET   A   STEAMER 
l-KKICirn.I)    WIl  U    THE    WHITE    MAN'S    "  EIRE-WATER." 


CHRISTENDOM  S   COMMON  FRUIT.  149 


That  is  the  sorrowful  conclusion  of  an  African 
traveller  who  was  once  fondly  proud  that  he  had  done 
something  in  opening  up  the  Dark  Continent. 

Look  at  the  testimony  of  another  great  African 
traveller,  Sir  Richard  Burton. 

"It  is  my  sincere  belief,"  says  Burton,  "  that  if  tlie  slave-trade  was 
revived  with  all  its  horrors,  and  Africa  could  get  rid  of  the  white  man 
with  the  gunpowder  and  rum  which  he  has  introduced,  Africa  would 
be  a  gainer  in  happiness  by  the  exchange." 

Listen  to  the  words  of  the  native  African  missionary 
James  Johnson  as  to  the  rum-trade  at  Lagos. 

"  This  awful  drink  trade  weakens  the  body,  debases  the  mind, 
demoralizes  the  intellect,  and  feeds  the  war  passions.  There  has  been 
no  peace  in  Africa  for  centuries,  but  this  drink  traffic  makes  it  worse. 
Why  should  European  proximity  to  Africa  be  Africa's  ruin  ?  Negroes 
have  proved  themselves  able  to  survive  the  evils  of  the  slave-trade, 
cruel  as  they  were,  but  they  show  that  they  have  no  power  whatever  to 
withstand  the  terrible  evils  of  the  drink.  Surely  you  must  see  that  the 
death  of  the  negro  race  is  simply  a  matter  of  time." 

It  should  be  clearly  understood  that  England  is 
not  the  principal  offender  in  this  matter.  Germany, 
France,  Portugal,  Holland,  and  the  United  States 
have  also  their  full  share  in  the  guilt.  In  1884  Great 
Britain  sent  to  the  West  Coast  six  hundred  thousand 
gallons  of  spirits,  while  Germany  sent  over  seven 
millions,  and  America  nearly  one  million.  It  is  not 
sufficient  consequently  to  rouse  the  conscience  of  the 
British  public  to  this  crying  sin  of  Christendom  in 
order  to  produce  improvement.  The  conscience  of 
Europe  and  of  America  must  be  roused.  An  appetite 
has  been  created.     If  England  does  not  supph^  what 


ISO  NECESSITY  Of  CO-OPEKATION. 

will  satisf)'  it,  other  countries  will.  The  uselcssncss 
of  anything  but  a  common  at,frecmcnt  among  Chris- 
tian nations  was  c\iclenccd  by  what  happened  at  the 
Congo  Conference  at  l^erlin.  Great  Britain,  America, 
and  other  countries  would  gladly  ha\c  joined  in 
excluding  the  drink  altogether  from  the  New  Congo 
I'Vee  State.  The  King  of  the  Belgians  himself  desired 
it ;  but  Gcntiany,  Holland,  and  Portugal  insisted  on 
admitting  it,  on  the  ground  that  the  nciv  State  ivas  to 
be  consecrated  to  free  trade  ! 

It  is  useless  merely  to  drive  the  trade  from  the 
hands  of  English  firms  into  those  of  foreign  firms. 
The  onl)'  cure  is  co-operation.  But  the  example 
of  what  has  been  effected  in  the  wa)'  of  preserving 
the  North  Sea  fisheries  from  the  drink  traffic  by  co- 
operation is  encouraging.  ]^ritain,  German}',  ISelgium, 
Denmark,  France,  and  Holland  came  to  an  agreement 
by  which  the  traffic  there  has  been  stopped. 

Our  object  should  therefore  be  so  to  waken  the 
conscience  of  Europe  and  the  United  States  as  to 
lead  to  a  joint  prohibition  of  this  dcadh-  traffic  among 
all  native  races. 

As  regards  British  Crown  colonics,  such  as  Sierra 
Leone,  the  Gambia,  the  Gold  Coast,  and  Lagos,  where 
the  people  ha\e  no  self-government,  no  representatives 
or  voice  in  local  legislation,  her  majest)'  should  be 
petitioned  to  repress  the  trade  b\'  enactment,  or  if  the 
Government  feel  unable  to  do  this,  to  take  measures 
for  a  convention  which  might  succeed  in  leading  to 
united  action  among  the  powers  concerned. 

There  are  difficulties   undoubtedly  in  the  path,  but 


NECESSITY  OF  PRAYER. 


difficulties  must  not  daunt  us  in  the  endeavour  to 
remove  this  stumbHngblock  of  colossal  magnitude 
out  of  the  way  of  the  spread  of  the  Christian  religion. 
God  and  His  providence  will  help  those  who  seek  to 
do  His  will.  Let  us  pray  that  the  minds  of  our 
rulers  and  of  all  Christian  rulers  may  be  opened  to 
the  conviction  that  no  consideration  of  expediency, 
of  policy,  or  of  revenue  can  justify  them  in  placing 
this  most  deadly  temptation  in  the  way  of  weak  and 
ignorant  races.  Let  us  pray  that  merchants  may  be 
led  to  the  adoption  of  a  more  innocent  and  in  the 
end  a  more  profitable  trade,  and  that  the  prayers  of 
natives,  chiefs,  and  peoples  to  be  delivered  from  this 
curse  may  no  longer  be  left  unanswered.  As  to 
the  resolutely  wicked,  they  must  be  restrained.  We 
muzzle  dogs  in  hot  weather  to  prevent  ravages  of 
hydrophobia,  can  we  not  prevent  the  ravages  of 
this  worse  madness  ?  We  forbid  the  sale  of  gun- 
power  to  the  natives,  can  we  not  forbid  the  sale  of 
alcohol  ? 

Prayer  and  co-operation  alone  can  meet  the  case. 
Prayer  to  God,  persevering,  unanimous,  believing 
prayer  ;  and  co-operation, — the  co-operation  of  Chris- 
tian governments  in  the  /prohibition  of  a  traffic  pro- 
ducing more  misery  and  destruction  among  native 
races  than  slavery  with  all  its  horrors. 

W' e  trust  that  the  conference  now  sitting  at  Brussels, 
though  called  together  to  consider  especially  the  first 
curse  of  Africa,  may  nevertheless  do  something  to 
mitigate  the  second.  As  yet,  happily,  the  drink  does 
not  pass  into  the  Congo  basin  in  any  quantity.     The 


152  TIJE  NEW  WORLD'S  ONLY  HOPE. 


expense  of  porterage  is  prohibitory.  Ikit  in  i.Sr;4 
the  railroad  will  be  (opened,  and  what  then?  Is  rum 
to  be  poured  in  by  steam  ?  God  forbid  !  Is  Africa's 
ivory  to  be  exchanged  for  the  death-dealing  alcohol  ? 
Are  we  to  send  missionaries  to  tell  the  heathen  that 
God  says,  "  l^e  not  drunk,"  and  traders  to  invite  them 
to  buy  and  get  drunk  ?  At  present  the  native  Chris- 
tians if  tempted  b\'  a  white  man  to  take  a  glass  reply, 
"No;  Christians  do  not  drink"  But  even  should 
converts  be  enabled  to  resist  the  temptation,  how 
many  converts  would  missionaries  be  likely  to  make 
among  besotted  populations  and  gin-craving  crowds? 

The  power  that  permits  the  white  man's  drink — 
the  cursed  firewater  and  crime-creator  of  corrupt 
Christendom — to  spread  along  the  ten  thousand  miles 
of  navigable  river  which  lie  open  before  steamers  at 
Stanley  Pool,  that  power  will  surely  bring  down  on 
itself  the  just  judgment  of  God  !  We  cannot  believe 
that  the  grand  philanthropist  who  has  done  so  much 
for  Central  Africa  will  ever  permit  this.  He  has  the 
power  to  prevent  it  ;  he  has  overcome  in  the  interests 
of  Africa  gigantic  physical  obstacles.  Let  him  not 
fail  before  a  moral  one  !  Let  him  stand  for  the  right, 
against  the  world  if  need  be,  and  God  will  help  him. 
The  weal  or  woe  of  fifty  millions  of  the  dark-skinned 
sons  of  Ham  are  at  stake  in  this  matter.  The  exist- 
ing restrictions  will  be  of  no  use  when  the  railroad 
is  opened.  Prohibition  is  the  only  hope  for  the  new 
world.  It  wants  clothes,  it  wants  tools,  it  wants  a 
thousand  things  ;  but  it  does  not  want  drink  !     It  has 


''LEAD    US  NOT  INTO    TEMPTATION!" 


153 


enough  of  its  own.  It  will  buy  in  its  simplicity  what- 
ever we  offer  it.  Shall  we  sell  it  mainly  "  distilled 
damnation  "  ?     Again  we  say,  God  forbid  ! 


NYAM-NYAM   WARRlUKb. 
Representatives  of  the  inland  races  unreached  at  present  by  European  drink  traffic. 


P^-iV'^''*!'^***'' 


Mm 


KtbT    bCE-Ni.    IN    llili    ULAKl    VV    Al-UICA.       ^.t   .\    lUO. 


CHAPTER   VIII. 

THE  PRESENT  CONDITION  OF  THE 
NEW   WORLD. 

The  work  of  African  discovery  has  proceeded  steadily 
since  the  Berhn  Conference.  After  the  exploration 
of  the  Congo,  there  remained  of  course  no  problem 
of  similar  magnitude  to  be  solved.  But  the  many 
tributaries  of  the  great  river  had  to  be  explored,  and 
two  of  them  prove  to  be  little  less  important  than 
the  main  stream.  The  Mobangi  divides  between 
French  Congo  and  the  Free  State,  and  connects  the 
Congo  system  with  the  Xilc  water-shed  ;  it  proves 
to  be  the  lower  course  of  the  great  Welle?  River  of 
Schweinfurth,  which  runs  through  the  Nyam-Nyam 
and  Alonbutto  territories,  some  of  its  head  waters 
being  in  Emin  Bey's  late  Equatorial  Province,  \\ithin 
a  {(t\\  miles  of  some  of  the  Nile  head  waters. 

The  great  Kwa-Kasai-Sankulu  affluent,  on  the 
other  hand,  comes  up  eighteen  hundred  miles  from 
the  far  south  and  south-east,  draining  the  waters 
from  the  northern  slope  of  the  Zambesi  watershed. 
The  Lomami,  which  runs  for  many  hundred  miles 
parallel  with  the  Congo  in  its  long  northward  course, 
proves  to  be  navigable  nearly  as  far  as  Xyangwe, 
which  can   therefore  be  reached  from    Stanley   Pool 


156  VALUE   OF    THE   CONGO  BASIN. 


without  any  portage :  a  most  important  fact.  The 
entire  basin  of  the  Congo  proves  far  hirger  than  was 
at  first  supposed,  and  the  extent  of  its  navigable 
waters  is  almost  incalculable.  Grenfell  considers  that 
there  is  scarcely  a  point  in  the  whole  basin  whicli 
is  a  hundred  miles  from  a  navigable  river.  From 
all  quarters  of  the  compass  streams  of  greater  or 
less  magnitude  converge  on  the  Congo  main  outlet, 
the  western  two-thirds  of  the  continent  sloping  from 
north,  south,  and  east  towards  it.  The  exploration  of 
the  Congo  has  therefore  proved  to  be  the  discovery 
of  Central  Africa,  the  whole  of  which  will  all  be 
brought  by  its  means  within  easy  reach  of  Europe, 
as  soon  as  the  two  hundred  miles  of  the  Livingstone 
Cataracts  near  the  mouth  are  bridged  by  a  railroad. 
Until  that  is  done  the  great  continent  is  virtually 
inaccessible  to  commerce.  A  ton  of  luggage,  which 
can  be  conveyed  from  England  to  the  lower  river  for 
£2,  costs  about  £^0  for  carriage  to  Stanley  Pool, 
and  twice  as  much  to  the  far  interior.  The  railroad 
is  therefore  a  prime  essential  of  the  further  civilization 
of  this  populous  new  world. 

Can  one  be  constructed  ?  With  perfect  facility. 
Scarcely  any  engineering  difficulties  exist.  Lines  to 
less  important  countries,  involving  ten  times  the  diffi- 
culty, have  often  been  built.  The  short  line  from  Vera 
Cruz  to  the  City  of  Mexico,  which  is  just  the  same 
length,  had,  instead  of  rising  gradually  for  1,100  or 
1,200  feet,  to  climb  the  Cordilleras  at  an  altitude  nine 
times  as  great.  It  carries  its  passengers  in  a  few 
short  hours  from  tropic  heat  to  alpine  cold,  passing 


THE  UROrOSED    CONGO  RAILWAY.  157 

over  aerial  bridges  and  rocky  shelves,  overhanging 
abysmal  depths,  through  awful  canons  and  tunnels, 
and  on  narrow  ledges  around  giddy  heights.  Its 
construction  was  a  trium]_)h  of  engineering  skill,  and 
its  cost  must  have  been  enormous,  as  well  as  the  risk 
and  loss  of  life  involved  in  its  construction.  Yet  its 
goal  is  comparatively  unimportant.  The  Congo  rail- 
way presents  no  such  difficulties,  and  will  lead  into 
a  vast  new  world,  rich  in  resources. 

A  Belgian  company  has  undertaken  the  task  of 
building  the  requisite  line,  and  has  already  (Jan.,  1890) 
commenced  operations,  the  Belgian  government  having 
liberally  subscribed  to  the  capital  required. 

A  careful  study  of  the  proposed  route  has  been 
made  on  the  spot  by  competent  experts.  Accurate 
and  detailed  working  plans  of  every  mile  of  the  road 
have  been  prepared,  and  estimates  based  on  them  and 
on  present  prices  of  labour  in  the  country.  It  is  cal- 
culated that  a  million  sterling  will  cover  all  expenses 
of  construction,  provide  rolling  stock,  and  pay  inte- 
rest on  the  capital  during  the  estimated  four  years  of 
its  construction.  The  total  length  of  the  line  will  be 
about  268  miles,  of  which  only  the  first  twenty-five 
present  any  serious  engineering  difficulties. 

The  principal  bridges  will  be  those  over  the  M'poso, 
the  Kwilu,  and  the  Inkissi ;  the  gradients  are  com- 
paratively easy,  and  only  in  the  first  section  will 
sharp  curves  be  required.  The  line  will  start  from 
Matadi,  and  run  to  the  south  of  the  usual  caravan 
route  to  Pdlabala  and  Banza  Manteka,  and  the  ter- 
minus will  be  at  N'dolo,  a  little   above   Kinchassa,  on 


ONE   OF   THE   LESSER   CONGO   TRIBUTARIES. 


Stanley  Pool.  At  this  point  trucks  of  goods  can 
be  unloaded  into  steamers  alongside,  which  can  then 
start  on  a  river  system  presenting  from  seven  to  ten 
thousand  miles  of  uninterrupted  navigation. 

A  complete  judicial  and  administrative  legislation 
has  been  formed  for  the  Congo  Free  State,  of  which 

the  sovereign  is  Leopold  King  of  the  Belgians.     His 

15S 


LEGISLATION  OF   THE   CONGO  FREE  STATE.      159 

power  is  exerted  by  means  of  three  general  adminis- 
trators, who  direct  respectively  the  departments  of  the 
interior,  of  foreign  affairs,  and  of  finances.  They  form 
a  council  for  the  consideration  of  the  interests  of  the 
country,  and  submit  their  resolutions  to  the  appro- 
bation of  the  king.  At  his  instance  they  issue  decrees 
and  make  laws.  The  department  of  the  interior 
undertakes  the  administration  of  the  police,  the 
development  of  internal  connexions,  the  service  and 
transports,  the  public  forces,  native  politics,  and  the 
provisioning  of  the  stations.  The  department  of 
finances  considers  all  questions  relating  to  the  impo- 
sition of  taxes,  and  expense  of  improvements,  and  it 
will  gradually  introduce  a  currency.  The  depart- 
ment of  foreign  affairs  regulates  the  connexion  of  the 
State  with  foreign  countries,  the  posts,  and  the  admi- 
nistration of  justice.  The  government  is  adminis- 
tered in  Africa  by  a  governor-general,  assisted  by 
an  inspector-general,  a  secretary,  and  governors  of 
the  different  provinces. 

A  legal  code  in  two  volumes  has  been  published, 
and  a  bulletin  is  issued  monthly,  enacting  fresh  de- 
crees as  required.  These  laws  are  mainly  founded  on 
the  Belgian  code,  adapted  as  requisite.  The  lands  of 
the  Congo  Free  State  are  divided  into  three  classes  : 
those  in  the  actual  occupation  of  natives,  those  occu- 
pied by  foreigners,  and  those  which  are  at  present 
unoccupied.  The  natives  do  not  recognise  private 
property  in  the  soil.  It  belongs  to  him  who  culti- 
vates it  as  long  as  he  does  so,  but  the  possession  is 
not  permanent.     All  questions  about  native  laws  are 


i6o  UNSOPHISTICATED  LAND-LAWS. 


left  to  be  settled  by  native  customs.  Lands  occupied 
by  foreigners  are  held  now  under  a  government  title, 
liefore  the  constitution  of  the  State  they  were  held 
tlirect  from  the  natives.  Properties  when  purchased 
are  now  registered,  so  that  there  is  i^ermanent  right 
of  possession  ;  and  a  proprietor  can  sell  his  land  with- 
out difficulty.  No  title  is  legal  which  is  not  thus 
registered  in  the  government  archives.  Every  sale 
and  transfer  must  similarly  be  registered,  as  well  as 
every  lease  ;  but  the  registration  is  a  simple  process, 
involving  no  legal  expense,  nor  any  intervention  of  a 
solicitor. 

On  the  upper  river,  any  foreigner  can  without 
authorization  appropriate  unoccupied  land  to  the 
extent  of  about  twenty-five  acres,  on  condition  of 
coming  to  an  understanding  with  the  natives  about 
it.  But  he  is  required  as  soon  as  possible  to  give 
notice  to  the  governor-general  of  the  province. 
Timber  cannot  be  cut,  nor  can  mines  be  worked 
without  a  concession  from  the  government ;  so  that 
the  grant  of  territory  is  not  held  to  involve  possession 
of  any  mineral  treasures  contained.  Postal  service 
has  been  established,  and  certain  taxes  imposed. 

The  State  governs  without  interfering  in  any  way 
with  the  native  customs  of  the  people,  except  \Nherc 
these  involve  murder. 

Having  few  wants  and  abundant  food  supplies  for 
themselves,  industries  are  at  a  low  ebb  amongst  the 
native  population  ;  though  where  there  is  any  incen- 
tive to  work  the  people,  who  are  well  able  to  labour, 
soon  become  willing  to  do  so,  and  that  right  heartily. 


ADMINISTRATIVE  DISTRICTS  OF  THE  FREE  STATE.  i6i 


They  are  born  traders.  Barter  prevails  over  the 
whole  countr}',  as  moiic}^  has  not  }'ct  been  generall)' 
introduced  ;  but  a  rapid  preparation  is  being  made 
for  the  great  change  to  a  money  currency  which  will 
come  shortly.  Already  fixed  standards  of  value  are 
adopted,  and  an  incipient  bank-note  or  cheque  is  in 
circulation.  The  porters  accept  a  white  man's  "book" 
or  paper  promise  to  pay,  with  childlike  confidence, 
and  the  merchants,  missionaries,  and  officers  are  all 
careful  to  give  no  ground  for  distrust. 

The    Congo    Free    State    is    di\"ided    into   eleven 
administrative  districts. 

1.  B.\XANA,  and    the  district  to  the  north  of  the 
mouth  of  the  river. 

2.  BOM.V,  the  capital,  and  the  country  behind  it. 

3.  IMatadi,  the  port  and  the  starting-point  of  the 


THE   LANDING    STAGE    AT    I'ONTA    DA    LENHA,    LOWER    CONGO. 

C.  A.  II 


1 62  A    WIDE  KINGDOM. 


railroad,  iiicludinrr  also  the  Vivi  and    Isair^Mla  district 
norlli  of  the  Congo. 

4.  The  Cataract  Rkciion  to  the  Inkissi  River, 
both  sides. 

5.  Stanley  Pool,  includinfr  all  the  territory 
between  the  Inkissi  and  the  Kasai,  and  eastward  to 
the  Kwanrjo. 

6.  Kasai,  the  immense  central  district  throut^h 
which  flow  the  Ikatta,  the  Kasai,  the  Sankulu,  and 
their  tributaries. 

7.  KquATOK,  includinc^  the  whole  l^alolo  country 
with  its  six  rivers — tlic  upper  part  of  the  horsc-slioc 
bend  of  the  Congo. 

8.  Mobangi-Wklle,  the  western  half  of  the  great 
forest  district  lying  between  the  Congo  and  the 
Mabangi. 

9.  The  Aruwimi-Welle,  or  eastern  half  of  the 
.same  region,  including  the  dense  forests  on  the  course 
of  the  Aruwimi,  latcl}^  explored  by  Stanley. 

10.  Stanley  Falls,  the  country  to  the  east  of  the 
Congo  and  between  it  and  the  great  lakes. 

1  [.  LUALAIIA,  extending  from  the  south  of  Balolo- 
land  to  the  Zambesi  watershed,  south  of  Lake  Bang- 
wcolo,  and  from  Lake  Tanganyika  on  the  east  to  about 
the  twenty-third  degree  of  longitude  on  the  west. 
This  district  includes  the  lake  sources,  and  head 
waters  of  the  Congo,  and  the  Garangange  country. 

But  the  Congo  Free  State  does  not  comprise  the 
whole  of  the  great  new  world  of  Central  Africa,  for 
that  contains  many  independent  native  kingdoms, 
of  w  hich  unutterabl)-  need  the  gospel. 


COUNTRIES  OF  GAKANGANGE  AND   KASONGO.    163 

There  is  the  Cazembe's  kingdom  in  the  south, 
where  the  royal  palace  is  surrounded  with  an  cxtcn- 
si\'e  inclosure,  ornamented  with  human  heads  stuck 
on  stakes,  and  where  the  presence  of  numerous  muti- 
lated wretches  in  attendance  on  the  king  serves  to 
warn  his  subjects  of  the  terror  of  his  presence. 

There  is  the  Garangange  kingdom  of  M'sidi,  where 
Mr.  Y.  S.  Arnot,  "  the  young  Livingstone,"  and  his 
friends  are  trying  to  found  a  mission.  This  countr}' 
is  picturesque  and  salubrious,  consistmg  of  highlands 
to  the  west  of  Lake  Bangweolo.  M'sidi  is,  though  a 
perfect  savage,  one  of  the  most  powerful  monarchs  of 
that  part  of  Africa.  He  is  a  cruel  despot,  who  governs 
by  means  of  2,000  fusileers,  whom  he  has  trained  and 
armed,  and  whom  he  employs  on  marauding  expe- 
ditions. His  own  palace  is  surrounded  by  human 
skulls,  and  his  brother's  is  indicated  by  piles  of  such, 
visible  from  a  distance  !  The  celebrated  Katanga 
copper  mines  are  in  his  dominions,  which  have  also 
copious  sulphur  springs,  and  his  people  are  remark- 
able for  the  deference  they  pay  their  women — an 
unusual  thing  in  Africa. 

There  is  also  the  empire  of  Kasongo,  traversed  b}- 
Cameron,  between  the  Lomami  and  Lake  Tanganyika. 
Here  the  ruler  is  regarded  as  divine,  and  as  the 
husband  of  all  his  female  subjects  except  his  mother  ! 
Yet  he  surpasses  the  rest  in  horrid  cruelty.  Muti- 
lation and  death  are  the  only  punishments  in  vogue, 
even  for  the  lightest  offences.  The  slaughter  that 
accompanies  the  death  of  a  chief,  at  his  burial  in  the 
bed  of  a  river,  turned  from  its  course  for  this  purpose, 


164 


UKUA   AND    UNYAMWESI. 


is  so  revolting  as  to  be  almost  incredible,  had  it  not 
been  described  b)'  eye-witnesses. 

Then  there  is  the  strange  Urua  country,  with  its 
troglodj'tcs,  and  caves  twenty  miles  long  ;  its  people 
living  in  them  and  on  grass  islands  in  the  Kassali,  to 
hide  from  c\cr-advancing  Arab  slave-hunters.  There 
is  Un)'amwcsi,  a  pleasant,  undulating,  grassy  countr)', 
co\-ered  with  farms  and  rice  plantations,  traversed 
b\'  the  great  caravan  route,  and  now  under  German 
influence.  This  was  the  land  where  Mirambo,  the 
black  Napoleon,  so  long  held  the  people  in  terror, 
and  secured  general  submission.  Here,  thank  God  ! 
a  mission  of  the  C.M.S.  exists — a  little  light  in  the 
great  darkness.  Then  there  is  Tabora,  on  the  water- 
parting  between  the  sea  and  the  great  lakes,  with 
its  capital  of  5,000  inhabitants,  standing  as  high  as 
the  top  of  Ben  Nevis — a  cosmopolitan  place,  where 
Arabs    and    Zanzibaris,    W'anyamwcsi    and    l^aluchis 


ar-5^. 


A  MANYKMA  ADULT  AND  VOVTH. 


THE   GREAT  LAKE  DISTRICT.  165 

from  India  are  found,  mixed  with  Swaheli  and  other 
Bantu  races. 

The  fish-eating  and  cannibal  Manyuema,  once 
greatly  dreaded  by  their  neighbours,' are  nevertheless 
a  good-looking  and  fairly  gentle  people,  with  some 
artistic  taste  and  considerable  skill,  especially  in  the 
dyeing  of  cloths  and  the  building  of  suspension 
bridges.  Nyangwe  has  ten  thousand  inhabitants, 
Arabs,  slaves,  porters,  and  is  a  purely  Mohammedan 
place.  The  slave-traders  have  so  desolated  the  banks 
of  the  Congo  in  this  part  of  its  course,  that  the  many 
villages  and  towns  described  ten  years  ago  have  all 
disappeared  !  The  western  slopes  of  Tanganyika  are 
thickly  peopled,  the  hills  are  clothed  with  vegetation 
and  gardens  from  base  to  summit.  Large  apes  four 
feet  high,  more  dreaded  by  the  people  than  lions,  on 
account  of  their  supposed  "evil  eye,"  dwell  in  the 
forests  and  build  in  the  trees.  There  is  no  Christian 
mission  among  these  people,  though  the  London 
Missionary  Society  has  one  on  Tanganyika  itself 
Ujiji,  where  Livingstone  stayed  so  long,  has  lost  its 
importance,  and  is  now  a  mere  group  of  hamlets. 
The  south  end  of  the  lake,  where  the  Stevenson  Road 
from  Nyassa  terminates,  is  the  most  important  part 
of  its  shores,  but  unfortunately  it  is  not  healthy. 

The  great  lakes  are  surrounded  by  country  after 
country — all  of  them  seats  of  tyranny,  cruelty,  in- 
justice, and  consequent  misery.  Uganda  and  Kara- 
gwe,  Usukuma  Urori  and  Xsoga,  and  the  neigh- 
bouring districts,  belong  to  the  Nile  fluvial  system, 
rather  than  to  that  of  the  Congo  ;  but   on   the  other 


1 66  MOBANGI  AND  FRENCH  CONGO. 

side  of  the  l(jfty  mountain  ruiv^'c  that  forms  the 
divide  between  the  two  systems  h'es  that  gloomy 
forest  region,  hundreds  of  miles  in  extent,  lately 
traversed  by  Stanley  on  the  Emin  relief  expedition. 
A  horrible,  dark,  dismal,  swampy,  dwarf-infested 
country  ;  the  human  race  dwelling  there  would  seem 
to  have  sunk  beyond  all  hope  of  redemption.  Yet  it 
may  be  that  here  also  the  gospel  is  destined  to  win 
trophies.  The  forest  extends  o\er  a  region  as  large 
as  h>ancc,  Spain,  and  Portugal. 

The  populations  of  the  Upper  Congo  affluents  are 
as  yet  very  little  known  ;  but  the  Welle  basin  (or 
Upper  iMobangi)  has  been  traversed  by  Junker, 
Uupton  Bey,  Emin  Be}-,  Casali,  Petherwick,  Felkin, 
Gessi,  and  others.  Their  accounts  represent  to  us  Mon- 
buttoland  as  an  earthly  paradise,  with  a  temperate 
and  delightful  climate,  lying  nearly  3,000  feet  above 
the  sea,  fertile  and  well  populated,  with  about  a 
million  of  people.  The  Nyam-Xyam  are  twice  as 
numerous,  less  cannibal  than  the  Monbuttos,  and 
remarkable  for  their  strong  conjugal  affection. 

The  Mobangi  is  little  known  in  its  middle  course  as 
\-et.  It  has  been  explored  by  Vangelc;  but  none  of 
its  languages  have  been  learned,  and  its  people,  who 
are  very  numerous  on  the  north  side,  are  fierce  and 
shy.  The  lower  river  is  still  in  a  very  backward 
condition.  On  the  right  bank  especially,  uncleared 
forests  give  shelter  and  food  to  enormous  herds  of 
elephants,  buffalo,  and  other  wild  beasts,  of  which 
the  human  inhabitants  stand  in  constant  dread.  Tra- 
vellers ha\e  remarked  that  this  part  of  Africa  reminds 


DE  BRAZZA'S  PEACE-MAKING.  167 


them  of  the  prehistoric  earth,  possessed  by  the  wild 
beast,  while  awaiting  the  advent  of  man.  It  is  in  that 
condition  in  which  men  are  hunted  by  the  wild  beasts, 
rather  than  the  wild  beasts  by  men.  The  Congo  Free 
State  has  no  stations  as  yet  on  this  southern  bank,  and 
the  French  have  only  one  or  two  posts  on  the  northern 
shore.  But  farther  inland  and  in  the  valley  of  the 
Mobangi,  the  people  are  very  numerous. 

The  mountainous  and  well  watered  French  Congo, 
with  the  windings  and  tributaries  of  its  main  river, 
the  Ogowe,  has  meantime  been  thoroughly  explored 
b}'  the  two  De  Brazzas,  INIixon,  Rouvier,  and  others. 
It  contains  240,000  square  miles,  and  its  population 
is  estimated  at  from  two  to  five  millions.  Only  about 
two  hundred  miles  of  the  Ogowc  are  navigable, 
though  it  runs  a  course  of  600  miles.  Its  fall  is  so 
great,  that  its  course  is  a  succession  of  rapids,  unfit 
for  navigation.  The  Kwilu  similarly  is  navigable  for 
only  about  thirty-six  miles.  The  French  Protestant 
Church  is  hoping  to  establish  a  mission  in  this 
country,  and  has  commissioners  to  investigate  and 
report,  but  the  country  is  still  practically  without  the 
gospel. 

The  French  had  some  difficulty  at  first  in  inducing 
the  people  to  live  in  peace  with  them.  But  De 
Brazza,  that  brave  and  persevering  pioneer,  persuaded 
them  at  last  to  make  terms.  Brazzaville  is  founded 
on  the  spot  where  they  "  buried  the  hatchet,"  or  made 
peace.  "  We  will  bury  war  so  deeply,  that  neither 
we  nor  our  children  shall  be  able  to  dig  it  up  ;  and 
the    tree   that  shall  take  root   here  shall   be  witness 


•UKIIlsrOKU-   AFRICA.      St'C  A  i(- 


to  the  alliance  between  the 
whites  and  the  blacks."  Thus 
spoke  the  chiefs,  to  whom  De 
Brazza  replied,  "  May  peace 
last  until  this  tree  produces 
bullets,  cartouches,  powder!"^ 
The  Catholics  have  an  indus- 
trial mission  station  at  Lin- 
zolo  in  French  Congo. 

In  the  enormous  basin  of 
the  Kasai  River  there  are  still 
tracts  of  four  or  five  thousand 
square  miles,  w^hich  have  never 
been  visited  by  any  explorer. 
A  few  half-caste  traders  keep 
up  some  intercourse  with  the 
Portuguese  of  Angola  ;  but 
no  Europeans  have  settled  in 
the  country,  and  no  missions 
are  as  yet  at  work.  Yet  the 
land  which  has  been  traversed 
is  as  populous  as  many  of  the 
countries  of  Europe. 

The  Bassonge  and  Bashi- 
lange  people,  who  are  intelli- 
gent and  industrious,  produc- 
ing copper,  clay,  and  wood 
works,  earthen^^'are  textile 
fabrics  and  baskets,  have 
countless  and  extensive  towns 
and    villages, — "  interminable 

'   Klci.ls,  vol.  xii.,  p.  4S0. 


NATIVE   JEWELLERY. 

villages,"  as  described  by  travellers,  some  of  them  tak- 
ing five  hours  to  walk  through.  Two  or  three  parallel 
streets,  lined  on  both  sides  by  houses  and  gardens,  wind 
along  the  tops  of  the  elevated  crests  between  the  river 
vallc)'s.  There  are  also  the  Kalunda  people  of  the  Lu- 
lua  country  and  of  the  kingdom  of  the  Muata  Yauvo,  a 
fine,  tall,  strong  race,  hospitable,  kindly,  and  peaceful, 
who  wear  much  native  jewellery,  and  long  sickles  or 
swords  ;  8,ooo  or  10,000  people  live  in  the  capital  of 
this  country.  There  are  also  the  Bakuba,  and  the 
Tchibokos,  and  the  Basongomeni,  and  almost  count- 
less other  peoples  of  whom  time  would  fail  us  to  tell. 

And  all  these  nations  and  peoples  and  kindreds 
and  tongues,  who  have  in  the  providence  of  God  be- 
come known  to  us  within  the  last  few  years,  have  yet 
to  be  evangelized  !  They  live  within  easy  distance  of 
England  ;  they  arc  perfectly  open,  and  willing  for  the 

most  part  to  receive  missionaries  ;  they  have  no  false 

170 


THE  MEANING   OF  PROVIDENCE.  171 


religion  to  prove  an  obstacle  in  the  way  of  the  true. 
They  are  waiting  still,  in  this  nineteenth  century,  for 
the  gospel  of  salvation. 

How  long  are  they  to  wait  ?  Why  has  God 
opened  up  the  new  world  of  Central  Africa? 

We  often  speak  of  God  in  history  ;  we  ought  to 
recognise  also  God  in  geography.  The  time  of  such 
great  discoveries  as  those  of  the  last  twelve  years  in 
Africa  is  ordered  by  Providence.  They  have  a  voice 
for  the  generation  in  which  they  occur,  a  voice  which 
ought  to  be  heeded.  They  remind  us  that  the  gospel 
is  to  be  preached  among  all  nations  before  the  end 
comes.  That  end  is  drazving  very  near,  and  the 
rapidity  with  which  Divine  providence  is  throwing 
the  entire  earth  open  to  the  ambassadors  of  Christ 
says  to  us  :  "  The  time  is  short.  Son,  go  work  to-day 
in  My  vine}'ard."     Opportunity  means  responsibility. 


SECTION    II. 

THE   HISTORY   OF   THE    LIVINGSTONE    INLAND 
MISSION. 

I  877-1884. 


HENRY  CRAVEN,   OF  LIVERPOOL, 
THE   FIRST  MISSIONARY  TO  THE  COXGO. 

DIED   AT   KABINDA,    CCT.    I^TH,    1SS4. 
174 


CHAPTER   I. 

IViry  WE  BEGAN  THE  MISSION,   AND 
HO  IK 


')]  is    frequently    by    the 
trumpet-voice    of    some 
startling  and  unexpected 
providence  that  Christians 
are  awakened  to  a  .sense 
of    neglected     dut}-.       It 
needed  an  Indian  Mutiny  to  rouse  us 
to  further  efforts  for  the  evangelization 
of  India.     It  was  the  horrible  Druze 
massacre  that  led  to  the  establishment 
of  the  British  S}'rian  schools  ;  and  it 
was  the  fearful  outbreak  of  commun- 
ism in  Paris,  with  all  the  cruelties  that 
attended  it  and   its   suppression,  that 
gave  birth  to  the  blessed  "  McCall " 
Mission   in  that  great  city.     So  the 
wonderful  journey  of  exploration  and 
discover}'  sketched  in  our  first  section  seemed  to  cry 
as   with    clarion    tongue    to    a    slumbering    Church, 
"  Africa  is  open  ;  enter  it  with  the  gospel  ! " 


176  "AN  OPEN  DOOR." 


Vciv  fort)'  )'C<irs  societies  had  been  workinc^  on  the 
coast,  without  penetrating  more  than  a  few  miles  into 
the  interior.  The  results  were  less  encouraging  than 
might  ha\e  been  hoped.  The  coast  tribes  had  been 
formerly  degraded  and  demoralized  by  the  slave- 
trade,  and  arc  now  being  ruined  and  brutalized  by 
the  equally  accursed  drink  traffic,  both  trades  pur- 
sued by  so  called  Christians  from  greed  of  gain. 
Poor  Africa !  Low  enough  already,  she  had  been 
for  centuries  sunk  even  lower  b\'  these  adverse  influ- 
ences. But  thc\'  had  not  penetrated  \-er\-  far  into  the 
interior.  In  the  merciful  providence  of  God  that 
\-ast  and  populous  new  world  had  not  been  thrown 
open  until  the  conscience  of  mankind  had  been 
sufficiently  enlightened  to  demand  the  abolition  of  at 
an)'  rate  the  slave-trade,  and  speedily  we  will  hope 
also  the  restriction  of  the  sale  of  spirituous  poison  to 
the  heathen. 

Even  before  the  astonishing  news  of  a  grand  water- 
way into  the  heart  of  Africa  had  reached  our  shores, 
many  hearts  had  been  )-earning  to  get  beyond  the 
narrow  belt  of  maritime  country  in  which  alone 
missions  on  the  west  coast  then  existed.  It  seemed 
unheroic,  not  to  sa)"  unfaithful,  to  rest  content  with 
evangelizing  these  alone  :  we  were  surely  debtors  also 
to  the  peoples  of  the  great  interior !  Did  we  not 
deserve  David  Li\-ingstone's  reproach  for  standi^ig 
trembling  and  shivering  on  the  rim  of  the  great 
continent,  instead  of  plunging  bravely  into  the  vast 
interior,  where  myriads  were  waiting  in  vain  for  the 
words  of  eternal  life?     Some  of  us  were  \-earning  for 


DELIBERA  TIONS.  1 77 


better  things,  and  had  decided — even  before  Stanley's 
letters  appeared — to  attempt  privately  a  new  depar- 
ture with  a  view  to  interior  gospel  work. 

Where  would  it  be  best  to  begin  ?  A  short  time 
previously  Mr.  Arthington,  of  Leeds,  who  has  since 
done  so  much  for  Africa,  had  written  to  us  suggest- 
ing our  sending  a  mission  to  the  so-called  "  king  "  of 
Congo,  and  offering  £"^0  towards  the  expenses.  But 
we  had  reluctantly  declined  doing  so  at  that  time. 
We  knew  how  great  the  difficulties  of  such  an  attempt, 
and  that  the  expense  of  it  would  exceed  fifty  pounds 
multiplied  by  ten.  We  were  not  then  in  a  position 
to  supply  large  funds  for  such  a  purpose,  and  more- 
over we  did  not  feel  inclined  to  send  an  evangelist 
to  that  part  of  the  Congo.  San  Salvador  did  not 
seem  to  us  a  desirable  centre,  as  the  old  kingdom  of 
Congo,  when  conquered  four  hundred  years  ago  by 
the  Portuguese,  had  been  forcibly  converted  by  the 
victors  into  a  nominally  Christian  country.  The  re- 
ception of  an  idolatrous  and  corrupt  counterfeit  of 
Christianity,  differing  from  paganism  only  in  name, 
had  been  made  compulsory,  under  penalty  of  fire  or 
sword,  of  the  slave  whip  or  other  torture  ;  and  it 
seemed  to  us  that  the  memories  and  traditions  of 
that  cruel  propaganda  would  be  a  hindrance  rather 
than  a  help.^ 

'  See  Pigafetta's  curious  "  Report,"  published  in  Rome  300  years 
ago,  A.D.  1591,  a  translation  of  which  was  issued  in  London  in  1881 
by  Murray,  Albemarle  Street.  After  describing  the  horrible  indigenous 
idolatries  of  the  people  of  Congo,  he  says  : 

"This  was  the  sort  of  religion  practised  amongst  the  people  of 
C.  A.  12 


178  RELICS  OF  POPERY. 


True,  Portuguese  influence  had  been  for  more  than 
a  century  wholly  w  ithdrawn  from  the  hind,  and  the 
cjnly  reh'cs  of  the  Popery  which  had  been  imposed  on 
the  people  were  certain  objects  of  fetish  worship,  the 
real  nature  of  which  had  been  long  forgotten.  Still 
virgin  soil,  as  it  seemed  to  us,  was  preferable,  especially 
as  there  was  so  much  of  it,  and  as  moreover  a  Protes- 
tant effort  in  San  Salvador  would  scarcely  fail  to 
excite  Portuguese  jealousy  and  Romish  interference.^ 
But  though  we  did  not  see  our  way  to  enter  the 
"  kingdom  "  of  Congo — now  a    name    rather  than   a 


Congo  before  they  received  baptism  and  the  knowledge  of  the  living 
God. 

"  Xow  the  kinj^r,  having  collected  together  from  the  different  houses  in 
the  city  all  these  false  gods,  commanded  that  in  the  same  place  where 
a  shurt  time  before  he  had  fought  and  conquered  his  brother's  people, 
every  one  should  bring  a  piece  of  wood,  till  a  great  pile  was  raised. 
There  he  cast  in  the  idols  and  all  other  things  which  they  had  treated 
before  as  sacred,  so  that  all  might  be  burnt.  Then  he  assembled  all 
these  people  together,  and  in  place  of  their  idols  gave  them  crosses  and 
images  of  the  saints,  which  he  had  received  from  the  Portuguese,  and 
commanded  each  of  his  chiefs  to  build  a  church  and  erect  crosses  in  the 
city  of  the  province  where  they  ruled,  as  he  had  given  them  example  ( I) 

"After  this  he  announced  to  them  and  to  the  people  that  he  had  sent 
ambassadors  to  Portugal  to  bring  back  priests,  who  would  teach  them 
religion,  and  administer  the  holy  sacraments,  and  show  the  way  of  sal- 
vation, and  also  bring  images  of  God,  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  and  of  the 
saints,  to  distribute  amongst  them.  The  priests  themselves  were 
tfeated  with  as  great  reverence  as  if  they  were  saints,  being  worshipped 
by  the  people  on  their  knees,  who  kissed  their  hands  and  asked  for 
benediction  every  time  they  met  them." 

That  such  Christianity  as  this  should  have  exerted  no  power  whatever 


^  Our  friends  of  the  Baptist  Missionary  Society  subsequently  opened 
a  station  in  connexion  with  their  mission  at  .San  Salvador.  In  process 
of  time  they  have  had  considerable  blessing  there,  as  well  as  some 
opposition  from  Portuguese  Romanists. 


A    BAPTIZED  PAGANISM.  179 


reality,  as  to  any  extensive  power  possessed  by  the 
"king" — \vc  were  led  soon  afterwards,  to  enter  the 
new  world  rendered  accessible  by  the  river  Congo, 

The  Rev.  A.  Tilly,  of  Cardiff,— one  of  the  directors 
of  the  Baptist  Missionary  Society,  and  one  of  those 
who  felt  intensely  desirous  of  doing  something  on 
behalf  of  Central  Africa,  and  regretted  the  exclusive 
expenditure  of  men  and  money  on  the  coast  regions 
— invited  our  co-operation  in  an  earnest  attempt  to 
send  a  few  evangelists  right  into  the  interior.  He 
had  enlisted  the  sympathy  of  the  well-known  Messrs. 
Cory,  of  Cardiff,  who  were  willing  to  help  financial]}* 
in  such  work.  In  the  spring  of  1877,  these  three 
friends,  with  Mr.  James  Irvine,  of  Liverpool — a  gen- 
tleman well  acquainted  with  West  Africa — and  our- 
selves, resolved,  in  prayerful  dependence  on  Divine 
assistance,  to   lose   no  time    in    sending   forth  some 


in  elevating  the  people  of  the  land  is  small  wonder.  The  excesses, 
Climes,  iniquities  of  the  priests,  and  their  preposterous  assumptions,  soon 
roused  the  people  against  them  ;  and  they  and  their  creed,  after  many 
a  struggle,  were  completely  driven  out  of  the  country,  leaving  behind  them 
some  ruined  churches  and  the  art  of  reading,  but  apparently  not  a  single 
native  Christian  or  Bible,  for  no  vestige  of  Christianity  remained  when 
the  missionaries  of  the  Baptist  Missionary  Society  first  entered  Congo. 

Why  the  Christianity  then  introduced  into  Africa  died  out  so  quickly 
and  so  completely  is  a  curious  problem,  connected  with  the  nature  and 
effects  of  Popery  as  a  corrupt  and  corrupting  religion.  Portugal,  under 
its  influence,  has  sunk  from  being  a  noble,  enterprising,  leading  nation 
in  Europe,  foremost  in  exploration,  conquest,  and  colonization,  to  being 
the  third-rate,  unprogressive  power  that  it  now  is  }  and  the  religion 
which  the  Portugliese  gave  to  Congoland,  not  having  been  Christianity 
at  all,  but  only  a  baptized  paganism, — as  is  clearly  shown  by  this  curious 
old  narrative, —it  is  little  wonder  that  it  did  more  harm  than  good  in 
the  country,  and  sobn  died  a  natural  and  deserved  death. 


i8o  THE  MISSION  FOUNDED. 


volunteers  for  an  inland  mission.  On  the  publication 
of  Mr.  Stanley's  letters  in  the  autumn  of  1877,  we  at 
once  resolved  to  attempt  an  entrance  into  Africa  by 
the  new  route,  and  formed  ourselves  into  a  committee 
for  the  conduct  of  a  mission,  for  which  we  adopted  the 
name  of  "TiiE  Li\iNc;sTONE  Inland  Mission,"  Mr. 
Stanlc}',  with  a  true  recognition  of  the  great  explorer's 
share  in  their  joint  discovery,  having  named  the  great 
river  after  him.^ 

The  basis  of  our  mission  was  evangelical,  but  inter- 
denominational, and  we  hoped  to  make  it  to  some 
extent  self-supporting.  One  of  the  principles  of  its 
constitution  ran  as  follows  : 

That  as  it  is  the  aim  of  this  niissioa  to  introduce  into  the  vast 
Congo  Valley  as  many  Christian  evangelists  as  possible,  and  as  it  is 
believed  that  land  and  native  labour  can  be  secured  at  small  cost,  tl;e 
agents  of  the  mission  shall  be  men  willing  to  avail  themselves  of  these 
advantages,  and  resolved  to  be  as  little  burdensome  as  possible  to  the 
funds  of  the  mission.  No  salaries  are  guaranteed,  but  the  committee, 
as  far  as  the  means  of  doing  so  are  placed  in  their  hands,  will  supply 
the  missionaries  with  such  needful  things  as  cannot  be  produced  in 
the  country. 


'  -Vt  present  however  the  new  designation  does  not  seem  likely  to 
replace  the  old,  at  any  rate  in  jiopular  parlance.  The  briefer  and  more 
familiar  "  Congo  "  holds  its  ground,  and  will  probably  continue  to  do 
so.  In  different  parts  of  its  course  of  nearly  3,000  miles  the  river  bears 
various  names.  At  its  rise  in  the  mountains  to  the  west  of  Lake 
Nyassa,  where  Livingstone  first  saw  it,  in  Januarys  1S67,  it  is  called  the 
CilAMBESi.  After  traversing  Lake  Bemba  it  emerges  under  the  name  of 
the  LUAi'UL.\  ;  while  the  western  branch  of  its  head  waters  is  called  the 
LuALABA.  In  the  sixteen  hundred  miles  of  it  which  Stanley  descended 
between  Nyangwe  and  the  ocean,  the  river  changes  its  name  almost 
every  time  it  receives  a  fresh  tributary.  As  a  name  designating  its 
entire  length,  the  name  Congo  will,  for  convenience  sake,  be  employed. 


SELF-SUPPORT  IMPRACTICABLE.  iSi 


Subsequent  experience  abundant!}'  proved  that  the 
climate  is  such  as  to  preclude  the  possibilit}'  of 
European  self-support,  at  any  rate  in  the  Cataract 
region.  The  valley  of  the  Congo  is  not,  like  South 
Africa  or  Xatal,  a  sphere  suited  for  Christian  colonists. 
Agriculture  is  out  of  the  question  for  Europeans,  and 
the  onK'  means  of  possible  self-support  is  trade.  To 
carry  on  trade  not  only  requires  capital,  as  well  as 
much  time  and  attention  that  could  ill  be  spared  by 
missionaries,  but  it  inevitably  obscures  the  true  char- 
acter of  a  Christian  mission,  and  gives  it  in  the  eyes 
of  the  natives  a  most  undesirable  aspect  of  self- 
interest.  Missionaries  should  be  able  to  say  to  the 
people,  "  We  seek  not  yours,  but  you,"  and  practically 
to  convince  them  of  the  truth  of  the  statement. 

Not  knowing  fully  the  circumstances,  we  could  not 
realize  this  at  the  outset.  The  country  being  entirely 
new,  work  in  it  was  necessarily  to  some  extent  an 
experiment.  We  had  had  experience  in  other  parts 
of  the  world,  but  none  in  such  a  dangerous  climate  as 
that  of  the  Congo.  Indeed,  our  principal  qualification 
for  the  task  we  undertook  was  simply  a  very  earnest 
desire  to  see  it  accomplished,  a  deep  conviction  that 
obedience  to  Christ  required  the  attempt,  and  a  con- 
fidence that  He  would  bless  the  endeavour  to  send 
witnesses  for  Christ  into  this  new  world. 

Our  valued  friends,  \\\  T.  Berger,  Esq.,  of  Cannes, 
Lord  Polwarth,  of  iMertoun,  X.B.,  and  the  late  J. 
Houghton,  Esq.,  of  Liverpool,  and  Thomas  Coates, 
Esq.,  of  Paisley,  subsequently  joined  the  committee, 
thousrh  not  as  working  members.     Distance  and  other 


iS2  HENRY  CRAVE iV. 


claims  prevented  their  active  practical  co-operation, 
but  they  f^ave  f^ood  counsel  and  heart)'  sympath)-,  as 
well  as  iin[>ortant  financial  assistance. 

Not  liijlitly,  but  in  pra)'crrul  dependence  on  God 
was  this  work  undertaken.  It  was  foreseen  that  the 
difficulties  would  be  great,  thoutjh  how  threat  none  of 
us  at  the  time  realized.  Had  we  done  so  we  might 
never  have  attempted  the  mission  ;  but  we  saw  our 
way  to  the  initial  steps,  and  the  future  is  graciously 
concealed.  Our  "  East  London  Institute"^  furnished 
the  volunteers  for  this  dangerous  pioneer  service  ;  a 
few  friends,  mostly  members  of  the  committee,  con- 
tributed the  means  required  to  start  with,  and  the 
Rev.  A.  Tilly,  though  engaged  in  active  pastoral  duties, 
acted  as  secretary  for  the  first  three  years.  So  in 
January,  1878,  the  frail  craft  of  the  new  mission  was 
launched  on  what  proved  to  be  a  ver)'  troubled  sea. 
That  it  weathered  the  storm  and  rode  over  the 
breakers  was  owing  to  the  Divine  hand  that  guided 
and  the  voice  that  said,  "Peace,  be  still!"  Christ 
was  with  His  disciples  in  the  ship.  They  went  at 
His  bidding.  He  remembered  them  in  their  hard 
struggle,  and  drew  near  in  the  darkest  hour  to  help 
and  preserve. 

Mr.  Hexrv  Craven,  of  Liverpool,  was  the  pioneer 
of  the  Livingstone  Inland  Mission,  and  was  spared 
to  labour  most  dcvotcdl}-  and  bravely  in  it  for  seven 
}-cars  ;  and  then,  just  as  it  was  emerging  from  its 
greatest  initiatory  difficulties,  he  was  ver}'  suddenK- 


*  See  Appendix. 


THE  LOWER   CONGO  IN  1887.  183 

and  unexpectedly  called  up  higher,  to  receive  the 
Master's  "Well  done,  good  and  faithful  servant!" 

He  was  an  earnest,  gifted,  and  godly  young  man, 
whose  devotion  to  the  service  of  Christ  among  the 
dark  sons  of  Africa  was  conspicuous  and  beautiful 
throughout  his  all  too  brief  career  in  that  land.  The 
accompan}-ing  likeness  does  but  scant  justice  to  his 
refined  and  thoughtful  countenance,  and  his  kindh' 
beaming,  intelligent  expression.  A  simple  dignity- 
characterized  him,  and  he  won  respect  and  confidence 
from  the  natives  from  the  first.  He  had  been  for 
some  years  in  our  Institute,  and  though  aware  of  the 
difficulties  and  dangers  of  the  sphere,  volunteered 
with  cheerful  enthusiasm  for  the  Congo.  He  was,  in 
the  first  place,  accompanied  by  a  Danish  sailor,^  and 
reached  Banana  in  February,  1878. 

At  that  time  the  Lower  Congo  was  known  by  vcr\- 
few.  Half-a-dozen  trading  firms  carried  on  business 
with  the  natives  at  Banana  and  Boma,  to  which 
place,  seventy  miles  up  the  river,  English  vessels  plied. 
Beyond,  the  onl\-  con\-e\-ance  was  b\-  native  canoes, 
and  at  Yellala  Falls,  100  miles  up  the  river,  all 
navigation  ceased.  Save  for  Mr.  Stanley's  letters, 
all  above  that,  whether  by  land  or  water,  was  an 
absolute  terra  incognita.  Xo  European  had  e\-er 
penetrated  beyond  the  spot  marked  on  the  map  as 
"  Tuckcy's  farthest."  This  was  the  point  reached  in 
1 8 16  by  Captain  Tuckc}-,  who  was  sent  out  at  the 
head  of  a  most  carefully  selected    and   amply   pro- 

^  This  man  proving  unfit  for  such  service  was  quickly  recalled. 


i84 


OBSTACLES    TO  TKOGHESS. 


vided  Government  expedition,  charged  to  explore  the 
country.  It  failed,  and  its  leader  and  most  of  its 
members  perished  in  the  attempt. 

The  physical  obstacles  to  progress  and  the  social 
difficulties  to  be  overcome  before  a  settlement  could 
be  made  were  great.  There  were  no  teachers  to  be 
had,  to  initiate  new  comers  into  the  language  of  the 
people.  Europeans  were  frequently  laid  low  with 
fever  from  the  first,  and  when  ill  there  was  neither 
nurse,  doctor,  proper  food,  nor  shelter  to  be  had.  There 
were  no  roads  and  no  beasts  of  burden,  and  }'et  as 
there  was  no  money  currency,  it  was  needful  to  carr)' 
a  quantity  of  burdensome  barter  goods.  How  were 
these  to  be  transported  ?  The  natives  were  unwilling 
or  afraid  to  act  as  porters ;  their  gross  superstition  filled 
them  with  alarm  at  the  ad\'ent  of  the  white  man,  whom 
they  did  not  want  in  their  villages, 
and  they  had  a  great  aversion  to 
going  far  from  their  homes.  There 
were  no  large  cities,  and  no  influen- 
tial kings  or  rulers,  whose  favour 
once  gained  might  secure  to  the 
missionary  a  passport  through  his 
dominions,  as  in  some  parts  of  Africa. 
In  the  Congo  valley  there  are  no 
large  well  organized  states  or  king- 
doms. Each  town  is  independent  of 
its  neighbours,  and  has  its  own  pett}' 
chief  or  king.  To  go  only  a  short 
distance  from  home  is  to  go  among 
enemies.    The  approaches  to  a  village 


''FRIENDS!  ALL   FRIENDS,    ONLY  FRIENDS!"     185 

are  purposely  made  tortuous  and  inconspicuous,  as  a 
precaution  ;  and  mutual  distrust,  instead  of  mutual 
confidence,  is  the  rule.^ 

In  Congoland  every  few  miles  the  traveller  enters 
the  territory  of  a  fresh  "king,"  whose  favour  must  be 
propitiated,  and  whose  avarice  must  be  gratified  with 
presents.  Hence  progress  is  slow  and  expensive,  and 
the  grace  of  patience  is  put  severely  to  the  test. 

A  merchant,  resident  at  Banana,  showed  kindness 
and  hospitality  to  the  missionaries  on  first  landing, 
and  gave  them  a  passage  in  a  trading  steamer  up  to 
Boma,  where  after  a  short  delay  they  purchased  a 
large  canoe,  and  made  their  way  over  to  some  native 
settlements  on  the  south  side  of  the  river,  Masuka 
and  Nokki.  Here  they  threw  themselves  right  in 
amongst  the  heathen. 

Then  began  the  usual  experiences  of  all  who  try 
to  live  in  Central  Africa,  the  difficulties  enhanced 
however  in  this  case  by  the  fact  that  our  friends 
were  few  in  number  and  possessed  of  only  extremely 
limited  resources. 

One  of  them  describes  the  first  "  king  "  with  whom 
they  came  in  contact.  He  kept  them  waiting  some 
time  for  a  "  palaver  "  with  him,  and  made  his  appear- 
ance at  last  arrayed  in  the  finer)-  which  the  natives 
on  the  coast  love  to  buy  with  their  palm   oil  from 

'  Nothing  seemed  to  astonish  some  Congo  lads  whom  we  once  took 
on  a  journey  into  Devonshire,  stopping  at  several  places  on  the  way,  to 
pay  short  visits,  as  the  fact  we  could  go  so  far  and  find  "friends,  all 
friends,  only  friends  I "  Such  a  state  of  things  seemed  to  them  most 
extraordinary. 


1 86  LOWER   CONGO  KINGS. 

the  traders.  He  tried  to  interpose  obstacles  and 
delays,  but  was  boiiLjht  over  withcuit  too  much  diffi- 
culty, and  promised  a  free  pa^sai^e  throu_L,di  his  terri- 
tory and  carriers,  that  ali-im[)ortant  necessity  for 
African  locomotion.  lUit  he  must  send  a  messen^^er 
to  ascertain  whether  the  next  king  wished  to  receive 
these  white  nien,  before  he  could  allow  them  to  .start. 

"  How  lon;^-  will  it  take  to  do  that  ?  When  can 
we  get  his  repl\'  ?  " 

"  Oh  !  about  full  moon." 

That  meant  in  three  weeks'  time,  and  the  distance 
was  only  a  few  miles.  So  skilful  diplomacy  through 
an  interi)reter  was  brought  to  bear,  and  b)-  degrees 
the  king  discovered  that  an  answer  might  possibly 
be  obtained  the  next  da}'.  The  Yellala  king  pursued 
somewhat  similar  tactics,  the  great  object  of  each 
petty  potentate  being  to  secure  from  the  travellers 
as  much  tribute  as  possible.  The  degradation  of  the 
common  people,  many  if  not  most  of  whom  in  each 
town  arc  slaves  to  the  king,  struck  the  missionaries 
painfully,  as  also  the  fearful  power  of  superstition  in 
tlri\-ing  its  votaries  to  deeds  of  cruelty  and  bloodshed. 

They  had  not  been  many  weeks  in  the  countr}-  be- 
fore they  were  attacked  by  that  scourge  of  Africa — 
fever,  and  that  too  at  a  time  when  they  could  not  get 
at  their  stores,  and  so  were  destitute  of  quinine,  the 
only  specific  against  it.  They  were  con.sequentl}' 
both  very  ill,  and  their  ignorance  of  the  language 
placed  them  in  a  tr\-ing  position,  unable  to  obtain 
either  food  or  medicine.  They  were  reduced  \'er\- 
rapidly  under  such  circumstances,  and  unable  to  help 


CROCODILES,  SCORPIONS,   AND  SERPENTS.       187 

each  other.  At  the  end  of  four  days  Mr.  Craven 
found  himself  "  unable  to  cross  the  room,"  and  might 
have  succumbed  to  this  first  attack  but  that  a  good 
Samaritan  in  the  person  of  one  of  the  traders,  hear- 
ing of  the  trouble,  came  to  the  rescue  with  quinine, 
which  soon  restored  both  the  invalids. 

Subsequent  experience  taught  us  that  for  perma- 
nent work  in  such  a  country,  a  pioneer  part}'  should 
be  larger,  and  much  better  provided  with  native  ser- 
vants, assistants,  and  interpreters  if  possible.  The 
impression  produced  on  our  friends  by  the  lower  river 
was  not  at  all  a  charming  one.     Mr.  Craven  wrote  : 

"  Masuka  is  a  deadly  place,  this  time  of  change 
very  sickly — heat  and  cold  both  bring  on  illness. 
The  scorpion  and  serpent  bring  danger  on  land, 
the  alligators  swarm  in  the  water,  and  there  are 
other  dangers  too  numerous  to  mention.  This  very 
week,  within  300  yards  from  me,  a  boy  standing  in 
the  water,  helping  a  carpenter  to  make  a  stage,  was 
taken  away  by  an  alligator,  to  be  seen  no  more. 
Four  days  ago  a  small  canoe,  crossing  the  river,  was 
attacked  by  alligators,  the  side  of  the  canoe  smashed 
in,  and  one  man  of  three  lifted  right  out  b}'  one  of 
these  brutes,  to  be  food  for  the  rest.  Yesterda}'  a 
native  lay  down  to  sleep,  and  rose  no  more — sun- 
stroke !     Buried  to-day  !  " 

The  crocodiles  troubled  them  seriously  at  their  first 
station,  near  Yellala,  devouring  their  goats,  in  spite  of 
all  the  precautions  they  could  take,  till  the  attempt 
to  keep  any  was  gi\-en  up. 


PALABALA.  189 

This  station  at  iMatadi  was  built  indeed  more  for 
its  advantages  as  a  landing  stage,  than  for  any  suita- 
bility it  possessed  as  a  centre  of  mission  work. 
It  was  needful  to  have  a  pied  a  terre  at  that  point, 
the  end  of  the  lower  river  navigation.  But  the  first 
permanent  settlement  was  formed  at  Palabala,  a 
town  some  fifteen  miles  inland,  built  on  a  plateau 
1,600  or  1,700  feet  above  the  sea  level,  and  in  the 
midst  of  a  considerable  population.  Of  this  place 
the  king,  Kangampaka,  was  friendly,  and  willing  to 
give  land  for  a  house  and  garden  and  to  countenance 
the  settlement  of  the  white  men. 

A  home  of  a  very  simple  sort  soon  sprang  up  here. 
]\Ir.  Craven  and  his  colleague  worked  hard  with  such 
helps  as  they  could  secure.  They  soon  had  a  two- 
storeyed  house,  a  school  house,  boys'  house,  fowl  house, 
and  garden .  well  fenced  and  planted.  Those  first 
buildings  were  slight  enough,  constructed  of  wooden 
framework  and  native  mats,  and  thatched  with  the 
long  grass  of  the  country.  Stone  abounded,  for  the 
place  is  built  on  a  rocky  tableland,  but  it  was  far  too 
difficult  to  manipulate.  Wattle  and  daub  buildings, 
with  good  strong  beams  and  posts,  came  afterwards, 
and  can  be  made  very  comfortable  for  a  time  ;  but 
the  white  ants  soon  make  havoc  with  the  timbers, 
and  then  the  walls  collapse.  Hence  they  need  fre- 
quent renewing,  and  are  never  permanently  satis- 
factory. Mr.  Craven  was  anxious  to  do  what  could 
be  done  towards  self-support,  and  soon  wrote  that  his 
garden  was  already  producing  an  abundant  crop  of 
maize,  and  added:    "  We  have  fifty  banana  trees,  also 


lyo         ''COME    TO  MY  PEOPLE    WHO  ARE   ILL." 


lui^lish  peas,  beans,  tomatoes,  radishes,  onions,  cab- 
bages, scarlet  runners,  and  celery;  pineapples,  oranges, 
and  limes,  besides  several  native  and  Portuguese 
fruits.  Our  stock  includes  goats,  pigs,  fowls,  ducks, 
donkeys,  and  some  very  inferior  dogs,  also  pigeons, 
and  parrots." 

TIic  effect  of  the  teaching  of  the  missionaries  was 
beginning  to  produce  some  outward  results.  Already 
early  in  1S79  Mr.  Craven  had  acquired  the  language 
sufficiently  to  preach  a  little,  and  he  wrote  that  the 
truth  was  evidently  beginning  to  tell  on  the  hearts 
and  minds  of  the  people.  He  had  translated  the 
commandments  for  them,  rightly  giving  them  thus 
the  law  before  the  gospel.  It  produced  a  marked 
effect.  By  the  king's  desire  a  man  went  round  the 
town  ringing  a  bell,  and  ordering  the  people  to  get 
their  water  and  gather  their  sticks  for  two  days,  so 
that  they  might  rest  on  the  Sunday  ;  and  next  day 
the  whole  town  came  to  the  ser\ice.  They  were  ad- 
\-ised  to  cast  away  their  idols,  and  turn  to  the  li\'ing 
and  true  God.  Their  great  difficulty  seemed  to  be 
the  question  of  health.  What  should  they  do  in 
sickness  ?  for  the  chief  use  of  the  idols  in  their 
opinion  was  to  heal  their  diseases  1  "  Would  the 
white  man  give  them  medicine  if  they  burned  theii' 
fetishes  ?  "  "  Certainly."  "  Come  then  to  some  of 
my  people  who  arc  ill."  They  went  :  the  men  were 
cured,  and  a  medical  practice  soon  sprang  up  ; 
superstition  received  a  shock,  and  a  wide  interest 
was  awakened.  From  neighbouring  places  came 
requests    for    a    teacher    to    visit     them,    and    these 


''POOR  BLEEDING  AFRICA!" 


191 


were  as  far  as  possible  complied  with.  The  nucleus 
of  a  school  was  gathered,  some  children  were 
ransomed  and  adopted,  others  sent  by  their  parents. 
The  women  seemed  thankful  to  liavc  the  deceptions 
of  the  medicine  men  exposed,  and  the  missionaries 
wrote,  "  The  people  thirst  for  knowledge."  Well  they 
might,  for  their  ignorance  was  absolute,  and  super- 
stition added  its  gloom  to  the  mental  and  moral 
darkness.     Mr.  Craven  after  a  time  wrote  : 


"...  Tlierc  are  six  towns  governed  by  our  old  king  Kangampaka. 
He  is  a  most  superstitious  old  man.  I  am  told  he  has  killed  more  than 
eighty  persons,  since  he  began  to  reign,  for  witchcraft  alone.  During 
the  three  years  previous  to  our  arrival  more  than  ten  suffered  death  for 
the  same  thing,  which  means  for  no  crime  at  all  ;  but  during  the  two 
years  we  have  been  here  only  one  has  been  killed,  though 
there  have  been  many  occasions  on  which  others  would 
have  shared  the  same  fate  had  we  not  been  here.  When 
we  first  arrived  the  fetish  drum  was  ever  going,  now 
months  pass  without  its  being  heard  at  all.  This  time 
last  year  there  was  an  idol  house  in  the  town,  but  the 
house  and  the  idols  are  alike  destroyed  now,  and  our 
services  held  on  the  site.  The  palaver  house  used  to  be 
filled  with  charms,  on  the  floor,  on  the 
walls,  hanging  from  the  roof,  charms  on 
every  side  ;  now  all  have  vanished.  Our 
presence  here  has  not  been  without  its 
effect. 

"Oh  this  poor  bleeding  Africa!  could 
we  but  lift  the  curtain  and  display  its  un- 
dressed and  terrible  moral  sores,  people  at 
home  would  surely  deny  themselves  more, 
in  order  to  send  hither  the  '  balm  of 
Gilead '  !  It  is  no  small  thing  to  put  a 
stop  to  the  cruel  and  bloodthirsty  practices 
of  these  people,  but  we  cannot  rest  till  we 
have  taught  them  the  gospel  and  led  them 
to  the  Saviour. 


CONGO   IDOLS. 


19::  ".ISA    GOD    TO  SEND    OTHER  BOYS." 


"  In  our  spiritual  wurk  we  receive  very  little  encouragement  from  the 
older  people  ;  they  give  a  passive  assent  to  all  that  is  said,  but  show 
little  interest  in  eternal  things  ;  their  creed  is,  '  Let  us  eat  and  drink, 
for  lo-inorrow  we  die  ! '  The  children  ask  questions  and  evince  much 
interest,  and  are  most  attentive  when  I  am  speaking  to  them.  I  feel 
l)ersuaded  that  our  success  will  he  with  the  young  people. 

"  We  have  two  very  g(jod  hoys,  who  show  a  desire  to  love  and  serve 
the  Lord  ;  and  I  think  if  they  were  taken  to  Lngland  and  trained,  they 
would  hecome  useful  labourers  here.  The  sharper  and  brighter  boy  of 
the  two  is  twelve  years  old  ;  the  other  is  a  <juiet  lad,  aliout  fourteen. 
Could  you  possibly  arrange  to  receive  these  two  ?  They  are  most 
anxious  to  go  to  England  and  be  trained  as  teachers  for  their  people. 
One  night,  when  I  was  speaking  to  them  about  our  duty  to  tell  others 
of  Christ,  one  of  them  said  earnestly,  '  Teacher,  do  ask  God  to  send 
other  boys  to  do  your  work,  and  we  w ill  leani  to  read  and  write  and 
teach  our  people.'  " 

These  dear  lads  did  come  to  England  later  on,  and 
arc  now  successful  native  helpers  in  the  mission. 

A  sister  mission  had  been  commenced  in  1878  by 
the  Baptist  Missionary  Society,  who  had  founded  a 
station  at  San  Salvador.  Mr.  Comber,  one  of  its 
first  agents,  visited  Palabala  in  October,  1879,  and 
wrote  thence  : 

"  Yesterday  and  Sunday  I  spent  with  my  friends  here,  ^^'e  have 
had  a  very  pleasant  time  together,  and  I  was  glad  and  thankful  to  find 
none  of  the  party  seriously  sick,  in  fact,  they  were  very  much  better  than 
I  expected.  I  was  also  very  glad  to  find  myself  in  a  comfortable  house. 
Our  brethren  have  done  well  to  accomplish  what  they  have  in  so  short 
a  lime — house  of  two  storeys,  school  house,  boys'  houses,  kitchen 
fences,  fowl  houses,  all  in  going  order.  They  have  done  very  well  I 
Boys  learning  to  read  and  write  too.  Mr.  Craven  and  Mr.  Petersen 
are  both  getting  on  quickly  with  the  language,  in  which  the  former 
preached  last  Sunday.  I  was  specially  glad  too  to  hear  of  Mr. 
Richards  being  away  at  a  new  station,  from  two  to  three  days  distant, 
and  close  to  the  river.  Were  the  rains  not  imminent,  I  should  like  to 
take  a  trip  to  it.  This  is  good  progress,  and  heartily  and  sincerely  do 
I  congratulate  them,  and  wish  them  the  Master's  blessing.  Palabala 
seems  the  most  important  place  for  a  mission  station   in  this  district. 


TtVO  NEW  M/SSJ  ON  ARIES.  193 


ami  is  well  chosen.  It  is  situated  by  thermometer  1,622  feet  high,  and 
is  likely  to  prove  healthy  ;  and  Kangampaka,  altliough  a  vassal  of  the 
king  of  Congo,  is  the  most  powerful  cliief  or  king  in  the  district."' 

The  new  station  here  alluded  to  was  Baxza  Max- 
TEKA,  a  place  which  has  since  become  dear  to  tlie 
hearts  of  man}-  as  the  scene  of  the  first  widespread 
awakening  on  the  Congo;  but  that  did  not  come  until 
after  many  a  long  j'car  of  hope  deferred,  nor  until 
man}'  a  corn  of  precious  wheat  had  fallen  into  the 
ground  and  died  ! 

Two  additional  missionaries  had  joined  'Mr.  Craven 
in  the  summer  of  1878,  Messrs.  Telford  and  Johnson. 
The  former  was  a  remarkably  vigorous,  healthy  look- 
ing young  man,  who  had  grown  up  on  a  north  country 
farm,  and  seemed  to  have  the  physical  strength  as 
well  as  the  devotion  and  self-denial  needed  for  rough 
pioneering  missionary  labours.  He  was  a  man  of 
singular  earnestness  and  force  of  character,  and  had 
for  many  years  resolved  to  give  himself  to  Africa. 

For  the  first  six  weeks  he  escaped  the  fever,  and 
wrote  to  us  in  September,  that  while  the  other  three 
had  all  suffered  severel}'  he  had  been  spared,  adding, 
"  My  turn  will  most  likely  come  next ;  but  sufficient 
to  the  da}'  is  the  evil  thereof"  He  was  short!}-  after- 
wards brought  so  low  b}'  an  attack,  that  all  thought 
he  was  about  to  be  summoned  home.  But  he  A\as 
restored,  and  not  long  afterwards  went  up  to  Pala- 
bala  to  help  in  erecting  the  station  there.  Here  he 
was  unfortunately  left  alone  for  a  short  time  owing 
to  circumstances,  a  thing  which  should  never  be 
done  when  it  can  possibly  be  helped   n  such  a  climate. 

C.  A.  I  ^ 


194  DEATH  OF  JAMES    TELFORD. 

During  this  time  he  was  taken  very  ill,  and  sent  a 
native  down  to  Yellala  to  beg  Craven  to  go  to  him. 
He  and  Johnson  did  so  asquicklj'as  they  could  ;  but, 
alas  !  to  their  great  distress,  onl)-  to  find  him  in  a 
dying  condition.  Sadly  and  tenderly  they  ministered 
to  their  suffering,  sinking  brother,  but  very  friendless 
and  inexperienced  did  the  young  nurses  feel,  helpless 
among  strange  and  half  naked  heathen,  whose  lan- 
guage they  could  barely  speak. 

Once,  suddenly,  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  a  noisy 
crowd  of  natives  gathered  round  the  house,  shouting, 
"  Palaver  !  palaver  !  "  They  retired  after  a  time  how- 
ever, without  doing  an}'  further  harm  than  disturbing 
the  dying  man.  His  soul  was  filled  with  peace  during 
the  closing  days,  though  his  sufferings  were  severe. 
He  did  not  feel  that  his  young  life  was  wasted,  but 
laid  it  down  gladly.  On  the  last  night  he  spoke 
joyfully  of  departing  to  be  with  Christ,  and  after  the 
others  had  pra}-ed  b}-  his  couch,  he  too,  with  his  last 
and  fast-failing  strength,  engaged  in  prayer,  but  broke 
down  in  the  midst,  his  heart  too  full  for  utterance. 
A  few  minutes  after  he  passed  away  to  be  "  for  ever 
with  the  Lord."  It  was  a  sad  and  solemn  night 
for  the  two  survivors !  Left  alone  in  the  dark 
with  their  dead  ;  surrounded  with  treacherous  and 
unsympathising  heathen  ;  filled  with  the  indescribable 
awe  which  a  first  near  contact  with  death  alwa}'s  pro- 
duces ;  conscious  that  with  the  morning  light  they 
must  arise  and  bury  the  remains  of  their  brother  ; 
far,  far  removed  from  all  human  help  and  .sympathy, 
it  must  ha\-e  been  a  night  never  to  be  forgotten  b)- 


THE  FIRST  CHRISTIAN  GRAVE.  195 


the  }'Oung  missionaries,  an  experience  leading  to  a 
new  and  deeper  acquaintance  with  God,  as  a  "very 
present  help  in  trouble." 

At  day-break  they  dug  a  grave  in  the  ground  be- 
longing to  the  mission,  and  with  heavy  hearts  com- 
mitted to  the  dust  the  body  of  dear  James  Telford  ; 
and  fencing  in  the  inclosure,  they  erected  a  cross 
on  the  spot  to  mark  the  first  Christian  grave  on  the 
Congo. 

There  was  grief  in  many  a  heart  when  the  news 
reached  England — in  the  Cumberland  farm-house 
where  parents  and  brothers  dwelt,  and  in  the  Institute, 
where  dear  Telford  was  loved  and  respected  by  all. 
We  could  not  gather  round  his  grave,  but  we  gathered 
at  an  in  menioriani  service,  at  \\hich  the  presence 
of  Him  who  is  the  Resurrection  and  the  Life  was 
realized  as  we  sang, — 

"  Some  from  earth,  from  glory  some  ; 
Severed  only  '  till  He  come.'  " 

We  rejoiced  even  in  our  sorrow  to  believe  that 
to  dear  Telford  to  live  had  been  Christ,  and  to  die 
gain.  He  was  much  addicted  to  the  study  of  the 
word  and  to  prayer,  most  consistent  in  his  conduct 
as  a  Christian,  "  diligent  in  business,  fervent  in  spirit, 
serving  the  Lord."  He  first  began  to  gather  the 
heathen  children  of  Palabala  to  the  station  for  in- 
struction, and  he  planted  a  garden,  whose  crops  are 
now  producing  luxuriantly  around  his  grave. 

At  a  farewell  meeting  held  before  he  left,  he  had 
u.sed  an  expression  which  struck  some  at  the  time 
as  almost  extravagant,  but  which  the  event  made  us 


196  ''JF  IT  DIE    .    .    .    MUCH  FRUlir 

thankfully  recall.  "/  i^o  >j;ladly"  he  said,  ''on  t/iis 
mission,  and  shall  rejoice  if  only  I  may  give  my  body  as 
one  of  the  stones  to  pave  the  road  into  interior  Africa, 
and  my  blood  to  cemoit  the  stones  together,  so  that 
others  may  pass  over  into  Congoland!'  The  words 
were  spoken  with  no  hasty  excitement,  but  with  the 
calm  deliberation  of  settled  purpose.  All  felt  he 
meant  7v]iat  lie  said ;  but  we  little  thou^rht  it  was  to 
be  indeed  his  privilege  to  be  the  first  jM'oneer  to  fall, 
within  six  months  of  leaving  England  ! 

Our  hearts  were  sorely  perplexed  at  this  provi- 
dence, strange  as  it  seemed  to  us.  A  precious  )'oung 
life,  three  years  of  training  and  preparation,  all  the 
expenses  of  passage  and  outfit,  and  the  months  of 
travel  by  sea  and  land,  all  this  goodwill  and  de\-otion 
of  heart,  like  so  much  sweet  incense — and  the  only 
result  a  few  months'  service  and  suffering  in  Africa! 
Even  before  the  language  was  fully  acquired  the 
willing  labourer  was  called  home.  Ah  !  we  had  to 
learn  by  many  a  sad  repetition  of  such  painful  ex- 
periences, that  God's  ways  are  not  as  our  wa}'s,  nor 
His  thoughts  and  plans  like  ours. 

The  death  of  Livingstone,  his  tragic,  touching, 
loncl}-  death  on  the  shores  of  Bangweolo,  did  more  to 
start  the  missions  which  are  now  planting  Christian 
Churches  all  over  Africa,  than  all  his  noble  life-labours 
had  done.  The  now  prosperous  and  self-extending 
native  Church  of  Sierra  Leone  cost  the  lives  of  thirt}' 
labourers  in  fifteen  )'ears,  ere  it  took  root  and  grew. 
Each  of  the  great  Central  African  missions  of  the  last 
ten  or  twch'c  years  has  had   a   somewhat  similar  ex- 


THE  FIRST  WHITE    WOMAN-MISSIONARY.        197 


pcriciice,  and  to  the  martyrs  of  the  modern  Church 
it  may  be  said,  as  well  as  to  those  of  apostoHc  days, 
"  Unto  you  it  is  given  in  the  behalf  of  Christ,  not  only 
to  believe  on  Him,  but  also  to  suffer  for  His  sake." 

Air.  Craven  had  written  that  Palabala  Station  was 
so  far  finished  that  it  required  a  mistress  to  preside 
over  it,  keep  house,  and  commence  work  among  the 
women.  So  Air.  Petersen,  a  Danish  brother,  who  had 
been  accepted  as  a  member  of  the  mission,  and  who 
was  sailing  in  December,  1878,  took  out  with  him  a 
Aliss  Bosson,  to  whom  Air.  Craven  had  been  for  some 
time  engaged,  and  who  was  the  first  white  woman 
to  enter  the  Congo  valley.  She  had  acquired  con- 
siderable medical  and  nursing  skill  before  starting, 
and  was  a  real  acquisition  to  the  mission,  the  hard- 
ships and  discomforts  of  which  she  bore  with  grace, 
good  sense,  and  fortitude. 

At  the  in  inenioriaui  service  for  Air.  Telford  to 
which  we  have  alluded  there  had  been  present  with 
us  a  young  brother,  a  student,  who  was  looking  for- 
ward to  join  the  mission  before  long.  "  These  heavy 
tidings  come  in  time,"  we  said  to  him,  "  for  )-ou  to 
change  your  mind,  if  you  wish,  and  refrain  from 
taking  a  young  wife  to  that  deadly  climate."  "  Say, 
rather,  to  confirm  our  purpose,"  he  replied  ;  "  we  are 
ready  to  go,  and  die  there  too,  if  it  be  the  will  of  God." 

In  the  following  spring  this  brother  and  his  wife 
sailed  for  Banana,  accompanied  by  another  student, 
Air.  Henry  Richards,  of  Cardiff,  one  whom  God  has 
since  honoured  by  making  him  an  instrument  of 
much  spiritual  blessing  on  the  Congo. 


1 98 


BUlLDIiXG   OF  BAA'ZA   MANTEKA. 


The  arrival  of  this  party  at  Palabala  early  in  1879, 
with  a  small  gang  of  Kroo-boys  and  some  donkeys, 
rendered  progress  possible,  and  enabled  some  pioneers 
to  go  forward  and  erect  the  third  station  of  the  mis- 
sion on  the  road  to  Stanley  Pool,  Banza  Manteka,  a 
town  about  fifty  miles  farther  up  the  Cataract  Gorge. 
No  white  man  had  ever  been  here  before,  but  a  good 
character  of  the  missionaries  had  preceded  them,  for 
news  spreads  quickly  among  these  people,  and  they 
were  well  received.  Makokila,  the  king,  was  friendly, 
and  wished  them  to  tarry  in  his  town  ;  and  seeing 
there  were  many  villages  and  hamlets  around,  they 
resolved  to  pitch  their  tent  in  a  fertile  and  sheltered 
valley  close  by.  Mr.  Richards,  later  on,  thus  de- 
scribed this  place  and  people  : 

"  There  are  three  towns  within  a  quarter  of  a  mile  of  our  station,  very 
near  each  cjther.  Each  family  has  its  own  hut.  They  have  no  plan  in 
building  their  towns.  The  houses  stand  neither  in  blocks  nor  ranks, 
but  are  placed  about  here  and  there  just  as  the  people  like.  They 
know  that  the  hills  are  more 
healthy  than  the  valleys,  and 
never  build  in  the  latter,  though 
the  land  is  so  much  better  and 
watered  more  plentifully ;  but 
where  there  is  a  clump  of  trees 
on  the  top  of  a  hill  (and  there  are 
plenty  of  such,  mostly  palms)  one 
is  sure  to  find  a  town.  The  women 
have  to  descend  into  the  valley  to 
fetch  water,  and  this  fact  accounts 
in  measure  for  tlie  prevailing  dir- 
tiness. The  natives  build  good, 
strong,  weather-proof  huts.  They  ^X~y''  \!-^v»i^^^~" 
are  small,  oblong  in  shape,  and  ^^^^^^^^i~.^:^k\\K^ 
range  from  twelve  feet  by  eight  to  -^/^sQlSi-^^^^tv-  .-^^^$^ 
thirty  by  twelve.     The  side  walls  I'ai.m  tkkes. 


A    COLLEAGUE    WANTED.  199 

are  about  five  feet  high,  and  the  ridge-pole  seven.  They  make  one 
small  door  at  the  end,  not  more  than  three  feet  high  and  two  feet  wide, 
so  that  it  is  difficult  for  an  Englishman  to  gain  entrance,  especially  as 
the  door  sill  rises  a  foot  from  the  ground.  They  have  no  chimneys  or 
windows,  though  they  keep  a  fire  after  sundown,  and  very  often  during 
the  day.  How  they  manage  to  bear  the  smoke  I  cannot  tell.  The  huts 
inside  are  black  and  shiny  with  smoke.  It  has  one  good  effect,  the 
white  ants  and  other  insects  are  prevented  from  destroying  the  walls. 
Palm  leaves,  prepared  grass,  and  poles  are  the  materials  used  in  con- 
structing these  huts.  The  palm  tree  is  a  great  friend  to  the  natives ; 
from  it  they  get  wine,  nuts,  and  most  of  their  materials  for  building. 

"As  to  our  own  house  at  Banza  Manteka,  it  can  hardly  be  called  a 
wooden  one,  as  much  clay  has  been  used  in  the  construction.  Posts 
were  put  in  the  ground,  palm  branches  tied  on  horizontally  on  each 
side  of  them,  and  the  space  between  filled  with  wood  and  clay ;  this 
makes  a  good  wall,  though  not  so  lasting  as  brick.      .     .     . 

"  You  would  be  surprised  at  the  amount  of  manual  laljour  we  have  to 
do  here,  besides  bartering,  attending  to  the  goats,  fowls,  pigs,  etc.  I 
am  now  fencing  in  four  acres  of  land,  and  was  puzzled  at  first  how  to 
make  a  good  fence.  I  am  putting  poles,  about  seven  feet  high,  into  the 
ground  close  together,  and  eighteen  inches  deep.  Most  of  these  will  grow, 
and  my  fence  will  therefore  be  a  living  one.  But  it  is  tedious  and  hard 
work,  and  the  natives  will  not  help  me.  They  bring  the  poles,  but 
I  must  put  each  one  in  with  my  own  hands.  I  never  worked  harder  in 
my  life.  The  natives  look  on,  and  see  me  use  the  pick  and  shovel,  and 
clapping  their  hands  in  wonder  they  say,  '  How  strong  he  is  ! '  But 
they  will  not  try  it  themselves  !  I  often  think  they  do  not  know  how 
weak  I  feel.  We  have  to  be  patterns  in  everything,  and  I  only  wish  I 
had  the  strength  I  used  to  have  in  England.  But  you  will  be  glad  to 
know  that  my  dear  wife  and  I  have  had  no  fever  worth  speaking  about 
for  six  weeks.  I  am  not  well  to-day,  or  should  not  be  able  to  sit  down 
to  write  when  there  is  so  much  to  be  done.  It  was  needful  to  make 
the  fence  I  have  spoken  of,  as  with  our  goats,  fowls,  and  pigs  it  would 
be  no  use  to  make  a  garden  unless  it  was  protected.  I  tried  once  ;  but 
the  animals  destroyed  evei7thing.     .     .     . 

"  But  the  work  is  too  much  for  one  man,  and  I  should  like  a  colleague 
who  could  help  me.  He  should  be  strong  in  health,  a  thorough 
Christian,  tried  and  proved ;  one  that  can  work  hard  with  his  hands, 
and  that  has  plenty  of  patience  ;  otherwise  he  will  never  be  happy 
here  or  do  much  good.  He  should  also  have  a  fair  education,  and  I 
should  prefer  an  Englishman.     .     .     ." 


HUGH  MiKERGOW. 


In  the  December  of  1879  Mrs.  Johnson  sailed  for 
the  ConjTo,  escorted  by  an  encr{:(etic  )'oiin^  Scotchman 
named  lluL,di  McKer^^inv.  lie  h;ul  n(jt  lon^  entered 
our  Collei^e  for  preparatory  trainin;^s  and  with  all  a 
Scotchman's  love  of  learnin<^r  and  /cal  for  self-imi)ro\e- 
nicnt  he  appreciated  to  tlic  full  liis  advantages,  lie 
was  a  diligent,  earnest,  successful  student,  with  a  single 
eye  to  the  glory  of  God,  and  thorough  devotedness  of 
heart.  One  could  fancy  that  in  early  days  Livingstone 
had  been  such  a  one.  Understanding  that  a  carpen- 
ter was  wanted  for  the  mission,  he  volunteered,  with 
much  real  self-denial,  to  go  out  in  this  capacity.  He 
had  had  seven  }'ears'  experience  at  his  trade,  and  was 
proficient  in  it.  He  valued  exceedingly  the  oppor- 
tunity for  study  afforded  him  by  his  reception  into 
the  Institute,  and  surrendered  it, //v  tciii.,  o\\\y  with  a 
great  effort  and  for  Christ's  sake.  He  said  :  "  I  have 
only  one  object  in  view,  and  that  is  to  help  this 
mission  on  the  Congo  ;  if  I  can  best  do  so  by  going 
out  and  building  houses  for  the  missionaries,  well  and 
good  !  I  am  heartily  willing  to  use  my  trade  for  God 
and  the  mission.  It  is  only  attaining  my  object  in 
another  wa}-."  He  went  out  on  the  understanding 
that  as  long  as  his  services  were  needed  for  the  erection 
of  stations  he  would  stay,  and  that  when  he  could  be 
spared  he  was  to  return  and  complete  the  course  of 
study  on  which  he  had  entered  at  Harlcy  House. 

He  was  greatly  needed  at  the  time  to  direct  the 
construction  of  a  house  and  depot  at  Matadi,  for 
the  reception  of  a  large  party  soon  to  follow.  In  the 
earliest  stages  of  a  mission  in  such  a  rough,  uncivilized 


CHRIST'S  SERVANT. 


sphere  as  was  the  Congo  ten  }-cars  ago,  men  of  this 
sort  are  pecuh'arly  wanted.  Clever  practical  workers 
with  all  their  wits  about  them,  with  cheerful  spirits, 
robust  health,  and  a  thorough  willingness  to  endure 
hardness,  such  men,  provided  they  are  true  and  con- 
sistent Christians,  with  hearts  full  of  compassion  for 
the  perishing,  make  first-rate  missionary  pioneers. 
The  natives  can  perceive  their  excellence,  and  soon 
learn  to  esteem  and  admire  them,  and  listen  to  all 
they  have  to  say.  Such  a  one  was  dear  Hugh 
McKergow.  He  never,  alas  !  returned  to  Harley 
House,  as  he  and  we  fully  intended  he  should  do 
when  he  left  it.  But  we  must  not  anticipate  ;  only  we 
like  to  recall  the  spirit  in  w  hich  he  left  us  in  Decem- 
ber, 1879,  and  to  remember  in  this  connexion  the 
Master's  words,  "  If  any  man  serve  Me,  let  him  follow 
Me  ;  and  where  I  am  there  shall  also  My  servant  be  : 
if  any  man  serve  Mc,  him  shall  My  Father  honour." 


ADAM     McCALL. 

Sailed  for  the  Congo,  March,  1880. 
Died  at  Madeira,  November,  1881. 

"  1/  it  please    Thee  to  take  inyselj   instead  of  the   work    that  J 
would  do  for  Thee,  what  is  that  to  nee  f    Thy  will  be  done." 


CHAPTER    ir. 

START  OF  THE  McCALL  EXPEDITION. 

In  the  beginning  of  the  third  year  of  the  mission, 
1880,  the  friends  who  had  inaugurated  and  were  con- 
ducting it  began  to  reaHze  that  to  pass  the  Cataract 
Gorge,  and  reach  the  interior  and  the  level  of  the 
Upper  River  at  Stanley  Pool,  was  a  much  more 
serious  task  than  they  had  expected.  They  had 
learned  by  experience  also  that  each  stage  of  progress 
towards  the  goal  increased  the  obstacles  and  made 
the  question  of  transport  more  difficult.  They  per- 
ceived also  that,  so  far  from  the  mission  having  any 
tendency  to  become  self-supporting,  it  had  become 
evident  that  the  early  parties  had  been  far  too  slen- 
derly supplied  with  resources  and  helps  ;  and  that  if 
the  mission  was  ever  to  be  planted  on  the  upper 
river,  stronger  and  better-equipped  detachments  must 
be  sent  out.  It  would  not  do  to  risk  the  lives  of 
missionaries  for  lack  of  Kroo-boy  help.  This  must 
be  had,  though  very  costly  and  involving  far  larger 
supplies  of  barter  goods,  and  consequently  also  more 
transport,  and  hence  more  expense. 


:04  /ID.-I.U  McCALL. 


Much  prayer  was  made  that  He  in  whose  providence 
this  new  world  had  been  opened  up  would  provide 
both  the  men  and  the  means  to  evangelize  it.  In 
answer  to  these  intercessions,  and  as  a  result  (jf 
much  hard  work,  an  expedition  better  organized  and 
better  supplied  than  any  previous  one  left  our  shores 
in  March,  1880. 

Its  leader  was  one  who  had  had  considerable  ex- 
perience in  African  travel,  and  who,  though  he  had 
not  previously  been  on  the  Congo,  had  spent  many 
years  in  South  and  south  Central  Africa.  This  was 
dear  Adam  McCall  of  Leicester,  a  bright,  brave, 
dauntless-spirited  man,  full  of  energy  and  resource, 
strong  in  purpose,  amiable  in  disposition,  and  devoted 
in  heart,  who  had  been  converted  to  God  during 
some  special  services  held  in  his  native  town  by  Re\-. 
\\\  Tinling. 

An  architect  and  surveyor  by  profession,  he  had, 
during  the  seven  years  from  1872  to  1878  inclusive, 
travelled  over  between  fifteen  and  twenty  thousand 
miles  in  Africa.  He  had  traversed  in  various  direc- 
tions and  repeatedly  the  Cape  Colony,  the  Orange 
Free  State,  Griqualand  West,  Natal,  the  Transvaal, 
Bechuanaland,  the  Matabele  country,  and  the  Zambesi 
valley ; — visiting  the  celebrated  Victoria  P'alls,  and 
the  upper  waters  of  the  Zambesi,  two  thousand  miles 
inland  from  Cape  Town.  During  two  years  of  his 
tarriance  in  South  Africa,  Mr.  McCall  was  profession- 
ally engaged  in  the  civil  service  of  the  Government 
in  the  Public  Works  Department.  The  last  two  years 
of  his  stay  he  had  spent  in  the  far  interior,  traversing 


''WHAT  WILT  THOU  HAVE  ME   TO  DO'!"        205 


regions  almost  untrodden  by  white  men,  quite  cut  off 
from  all  contact  with  civilization,  hunting  elephant, 
buffalo,  and  other  "  big  game." 

He  had  visited  the  remote  stations  of  the  London 
Missionary  Society  among  the  Matabele,  and  the  sta- 
tions of  other  societies  in  Bechuanaland  and  else- 
where ;  for,  although  unconverted  himself  at  the  time, 
he  sympathised  with  such  Christian  efforts.  He  met 
also  M.  and  Mdme.  Coillard,  the  French  Protestant 
missionaries,  during  their  detention  as  prisoners  by 
the  chief  Lobengula. 

In  1878,  after  this  considerable  experience  in  African 
life  and  travel,  Mr.  McCall  returned  to  England,  in- 
tending to  go  back  almost  immediately  to  the  Zambesi 
valley,  with  a  view  of  exploring  the  Chobe  River  (since 
descended  by  Major  de  Serpa  Pinto),  and  of  taking  a 
.series  of  photographic  views  of  the  country.  He  had 
already  partly  made  his  arrangements,  when  all  his 
desires  and  feelings  about  life  were  suddenly  changed 
by  his  conversion  to  God.  Old  things  passed  away  ; 
all  things  became  new  to  him  !  He  could  no  longer 
live  for  mere  self-pleasing.  His  earnest  inquiry  was, 
"  Lord,  what  wilt  Thou  have  me  to  do  ?  "  The  answer 
was  quickly  and  strongly  borne  in  upon  his  conscience. 
He  must  return  to  Central  Africa^  to  the  "  Dark 
Continent  "  he  knew  so  well  :  not  now  to  amuse  him- 
self, but  to  serve  Christ ;  not  to  be  a  hunter,  but  "  a 
fisher  of  men  "  ;  not  as  a  mere  explorer  and  traveller, 
but  as  a  missionary  of  the  gospel.  The  Master  had 
surely  been  training  him  all  unconsciously  to  himself 
for  work  which  He  wanted  to   have   done.     He   had 


2o6  TRAINING. 


been  prcparincj  an  instrument  for  a  special  ser\'ice, 
and  now  by  Ills  Spirit  He  called  him  to  it.  Mr. 
McCall  ^i^ladly  and  with  his  whole  heart  de\'oted  his 
life  to  mission  work  in  interior  Africa  ;  and  when 
the  peculiar  claims  of  the  Congo  region  were  pressed 
on  his  attention,  he  decided,  after  much  prayerful 
consideration,  to  offer  his  services  to  the  Livingstone 
Inland  Mission. 

He  rightly  felt  that  after  his  long  exile  in  Africa, 
and  in  view  of  his  recent  conversion,  he  needed  some 
time  for  the  study  of  the  Scriptures  and  for  the 
enjoyment  of  Christian  fellowship  ;  and  though  in 
certain  respects  he  required  no  preliminary  training, 
yet  he  wished  to  increase  his  knowledge  of  medicine 
by  spending  a  certain  time  also  at  the  London 
Hospital.  For  twelve  months  he  had  studied  in  our 
Institute  and  at  the  London  Hospital,  where  he  won 
a  high  place  in  the  affectionate  regard  of  all  who 
knew  him.  His  interest  in  the  Congo  Mission  deep- 
ened continually,  till  it  became  an  intense  and  con- 
suming zeal. 

Four  other  highly  esteemed  students  in  the  Institute 
volunteered  to  go  out  under  his  lead  :  Messrs.  McKer- 
gow,  Harvey,  Lancele}-,  and  Clarke.  The  first  of  these, 
as  we  have  mentioned,  had  already  gone  on  before- 
hand, to  put  up  a  station  on  the  river  in  time  to  re- 
ceive the  rest.  Mr.  Charles  Harvc}',  who  had  been 
for  three  years  training,  was  well  fitted  to  make  a 
good  teacher  and  translator,  as  well  as  an  earnest 
preacher  of  the  gospel  ;  and  Mr.  Clarke,  of  Aberdeen, 
who  had  had   considerable  experience  as  a  custom- 


AFRICAN  OUTFIT.  207 


house  officer  and  in  other  ways  before  pursuing  a 
course  of  stud)'  in  the  Institute,  had  subsequently- 
acquired  various  handicrafts,  fitting  him  to  be  useful 
in  the  mission  either  with  head  or  hands  as  requisite. 

Very  much  more  complete  and  elaborate  outfitting 
is  required  for  a  mission  party  going  to  Central  Africa 
than  for  one  bound  for  India  or  China.  Hundreds, 
not  to  say  thousands,  of  things  have  to  be  thought  of 
and  provided  ;  and  on  the  care  and  judgment  exer- 
cised in  the  selection,  arranging,  and  packing  of  the 
provisions,  camp  requisites,  stores,  and  barter  goods 
of  the  expedition,  its  ultimate  success  to  a  very  con- 
siderable extent  depends.  Care  must  be  taken  that 
no  more  is  provided  than  there  is  carrying  power  to 
transport ;  that  all  is  packed  in  loads  of  fifty  or  sixty 
pounds'  weight,  so  as  to  be  portable  for  long  distances 
by  men,  who  are  the  only  burden-bearers  of  Central 
Africa  ;  that  a  due  proportion  be  observed  between 
the  time  to  be  spent  in  the  proposed  expedition  and 
the  quantity  of  provisions  carried  ;  that  nothing  of 
importance  to  life  and  health  be  omitted,  lest  either 
should  be  sacrificed  in  a  difficult  crisis,  as  is  sometimes 
the  case,  for  lack  of  a  trifle.  This  not  unfrequently 
has  happened,  recalling  the  old  saying,  "  For  want  of 
a  nail  the  shoe  was  lost  ;  for  want  of  a  shoe  the  horse 
was  lost  ;  for  want  of  a  horse  the  rider  was  lost ;  for 
want  of  a  rider  the  kingdom  was  lost :  and  all  for 
want  of  a  horse-shoe  nail  !  " 

Lieut.  Young,  who  led  the  Free  Church  mission 
party  up  to  Lake  Nyassa,  carrying  the  little  steamer 
Ilala  in  sections,  pointed  out  how  very  serious  were 


::oS  J-AJTJI  AND  KFI-'OKT. 

the  consequences  of  what  seemed  a  most  tri\ial 
omission.  The  screws  and  bolts  for  screwin<:j  to^jethcr 
the  steamer  were  not  well  greased  before  starting,  to 
preserve  them  from  rust  ;  and  no  second  set  was  sent 
in  case  of  accident.  The)-  were  consequent!}'  all  rust}- 
when  wanted  for  use,  and  days  of  hard  labour  and 
most  fatally  dangerous  exposure  to  the  fever-breeding 
miasmas  of  the  Lower  Zambesi  had  to  be  endured 
by  the  whole  expedition,  while  these  rust\'  bolts  were 
being  polished  ! 

Hence,  on  the  principle  that  if  a  thing  is  worth 
tloing  at  all  it  is  worth  doing  well,  we  spared  no  pains 
in  endeavouring  to  secure  that  this  expedition  of  1880 
should  be  properly  fitted  out.  And  so  important  did 
our  friend  Mr.  IMcCall  especially  feel  this  to  be,  that 
not  only  did  he  make  it  a  matter  of  daily  and  earnest 
praj'cr  with  his  colleagues,  but  he  worked  so  hard  in 
seeing  to  ever}-  detail  himself,  that  for  man)'  weeks  he 
scarcely  allowed  himself  time  for  needful  sleep. 

The  departure  of  this  part)'  was  owing  to  the  oc- 
currence of  a  favourable  opportunit)'  for  the  vo)'age, 
earlier  than  had  been  intended.  Communication 
\\ith  the  Congo  was  then  not  eas)-.  The  rates  b)' 
the  mail  steamers  from  Liverpool  were  high  ;  and  as 
the)'  call  at  a  large  number  of  ports  on  the  sickh- 
West  African  coast,  passengers  to  the  Congo  ex- 
perience much  dela)',  and  are  needlessly  exposed  to 
fevers.  The  West  African  Steamship  Company  run 
cargo  boats  to  the  Congo,  but  these  have  not,  as  a  rule, 
ail)'  accommodation  for  passengers.  But  it  happened 
tliat  that  )-car  the)'  were  sending  out  from  England 


PASSAGES  ENGAGED.  209 

a  small  steamer,  the  Vanguard^  for  the  coast  trade, 
which  afforded  comfortable  accommodation  for  a 
party  of  five  or  six.  The  firm  offered  us  moderate 
terms,  and  several  great  advantages.  They  agreed 
to  send  the  ship  direct  to  Teneriffe,  to  take  in  twenty 
donkeys  ;  thence  to  the  best  port  for  shipping  Kroo- 
men,  and  thence  without  further  delay  direct  to 
Banana,  thus  shortening  the  voyage,  and  greatly 
diminishing  the  risk  of  fever.  So  favourable  an  op- 
portunity we  had  not  met  before,  and  might  not  meet 
again  for  a  long  time.  So  we  decided  to  avail  our- 
selves of  it,  and  the  five  passages  were  engaged  in 
^ait/i,  for  at  that  time  the  funds  needed  for  the  expe- 
dition, ;{^i,200  or  ^1,500,  were  not  in  hand. 

We  believed  they  would  come  however.  Need  wc 
ever  fear  that  God  will  fail  us,  if  we  do  our  part  in 
seeking  to  obey  His  holy  will  and  to  carry  out  His 
gracious  purposes  of  mercy  to  a  perishing  world  ?  If 
we  hold  back  in  such  work,  lest  there  should  be  a 
lack  of  funds,  may  He  not  well  say  to  us,  as  to  His 
fearing  disciples  of  old,  "  O  ye  of  little  faith,  zvJiere- 
forc  did  ye  doubt  ^  " 

We  endeavoured  to  present  the  needs  of  the  Congo 
valley,  and  the  nature  of  the  Livingstone  Inland 
Mission,  to  many  Christian  persons,  by  means  of 
meetings  held  in  various  places,  and  by  the  publica- 
tion of  a  little  pamphlet.  Considerable  interest  was 
created,  and  many  hundreds  of  donations  were  sent 
in.  Some  of  these  were  small,  a  few  shillings,  or  even 
a  few  stamps — precious  offerings  in  the  sight  of  Christ! 
Some  were  large,  though  perhaps  not  in  reality  more 

C.  A.  14 


A   BETTER  INyESTMENT. 


nobly  generous.  A  nobleman  sent  £\CjO  in  one  gift ; 
several  members  of  the  committee  gave  each  £\oo  ; 
many  dear  children  sent  their  little  all  ;  and  one 
donor  was  a  poor  washerwoman,  who  made  a  col- 
lection among  her  friends ! 

Leicester  (the  home  of  Mr.  McCall,  the  leader  of 
the  expedition)  came  forward  liberally  and  contributed 
over  £\QO,  with  a  promise  of  future  aid  and  the 
heartiest  expression  of  sympathy  and  fellowship  in 
the  work  ;  £y:>  were  contributed  at  a  drawing-room 
meeting  at  Torquay.  One  gentleman,  who  had 
already  given  liberally  to  this  expedition,  subse- 
quently sent  a  further  contribution  of  £60,  with  the 
following  words,  which  we  earnestly  commend  to  the 
consideration  of  capitalists  :  "  With  our  simple  mode 
of  life  we  do  not  quite  live  up  to  our  income,  and 
so  there  is  a  constantly  augmenting  balance  at  our 
banker's.  A  few  days  ago  some  shares  in  a  concern 
in  which  we  are  already  interested  were  offered  to 
members  ;  and  as  it  is  a  very  eligible  investment  we 
at  first  thought  of  using  some  of  our  idle  balance  for 
buying  in.  But  a  few  hours'  reflection  showed  us  a 
Still  better  investment,  and  so  I  herewith  inclose  you 
^^60  towards  the  expenses  of  this  dear  band  of  brave 
warriors  of  the  Cross." 

Ah  !  how  many  a  capitalist,  who  has  thousands 
lying  idle,  would  do  well  to  follow  this  example,  and 
to  invest  in  the  eternally  remunerative  enterprise  of 
sending  the  news  of  redeeming  love  to  the  perishing 
millions  of  Central  Africa!  This  donor  is  now  "absent 
from  the  body,  present  with  the  Lord  "  who  said  that 


FAREWELL   iVEETLNGS.  21 1 

the  cup  of  cold  water  should  not  lose  its  reward.  In 
His  presence  he  does  not  regret  this  investment  ! 

Farewell  meetings  were  held  at  Leicester  and  at 
Plymouth,  as  well  as  in  different  parts  of  London,  to 
commend  to  God  in  earnest  prayer  the  outgoing 
missionaries,  and  the  work  to  which  they  had  con- 
secrated their  lives.  At  one  of  these,  that  held  at 
Harley  House,  we  had  the  joy  of  greeting,  on  their 
arrival  in  Europe,  M.  and  Mdme.  Coillard,  the  heroic 
veteran  missionaries  of  the  French  Protestant  Church, 
from  Basutoland,  South  Africa.  These  dear  friends 
left  their  happy  home  and  work  among  the  Basuto 
Christians  some  two  years  ago,  to  lead  a  band  of 
native  evangelists  up  to  a  remote  heathen  tribe  or 
nation  called  the  Barotse,  two  thousand  miles  away 
in  the  interior,  north  of  the  Zambesi  River.  They  met 
countless  difficulties  and  dangers,  and  were  detained 
as  prisoners  by  Lobengula.  Mr.  McCall  had  often 
spoken  to  us  with  the  warmest  interest  and  affection 
of  M.  and  Mdme.  Coillard,  and  was  rejoiced  to  meet 
them  again  on  the  eve  of  his  own  departure  as  a 
missionary  to  Central  Africa.  The  words  of  cheer  and 
counsel  addressed  by  them  and  by  the  late  Major 
Malan  to  the  outgoing  band  were  wise  and  weight}-, 
and  not  soon  to  be  forgotten. 

Several  valuable  gifts,  not  of  money,  but  of  money's 
worth,  were  received.  His  Majesty  the  King  of  the 
Belgians  and  the  Royal  Geographical  Society  each 
made  a  grant  of  scientific  instruments  and  apparatus; 
and  one  or  two  manufacturers  sent  supplies  of  their 
goods.     The  saddles  for  twenty  donkeys  to  be  bought 


THE  LAND   OF  DISAProlNTMENTS. 


;it  Tcncriflc  were  sent,  luilf  a  do/en  jfood  do^s,  and  a 
-siippl)'  (jf  barter  ^f(;(jds,  t(j  last  for  some  time.  In  short, 
everythiii<^  needful  was  j)rovided  by  the  kind  co-opera- 
tion (^f  many,  under  the  bountiful  providence  of  (jod. 

It  was  hoped  that  this  party  would  be  able  to  d(j 
what  none  of  the  previous  ones  had  been  able  to 
accomplish,  go  right  on  to  Stanley  Pool  on  the  Upper 
Congo  in  one  diy  season.  They  expected  to  reach 
Banana,  at  the  mouth  of  the  river,  about  the  end  of 
April,  and  to  start  from  the  last  navigable  point  of 
the  lower  river  on  their  march  t)verland,  through  the 
two  hundred  and  thirty  miles  of  the  cataract  region, 
by  the  beginning  of  June.  Africa  is  a  land  however 
that  disappoints  more  hopes  than  it  realizes,  and  it 
utterly  disappointed  this  hope  among  others  ! 

For  a  time  all  seemed  to  go  brightly  and  well. 
Mr.  McCall  wrote  from  Madeira :  '•  So  far  every- 
thing has  gone  as  smoothly  as  possible,  and  we  are 
all  in  good  spirits,  and  hope  to  reach  Tencriffe  on 
Monday.  I  feel  that  I  have  undertaken  a  heavy 
responsibility,  and  that  I  .shall  require  all  the  strength 
of  mind  and  body  I  can  bring  to  bear  upon  my  work  ; 
but  I  trust  fully,  entirely,  from  day  to  day,  in  Him 
who  has  called  mc  and  said  to  me,  '  Go  ;  I  bid  you 
go  ;  and  I,  even  I,  will  be  with  you.'  1  am  putting 
Christ's  promise  to  the  practical  test  every  day,  and 
I  intend  to  do  so  still,  and  '  hitherto  the  Lord  has 
helped  me.'  Much  love  to  all  the  brethren  at  Harley 
House  ;  let  them  pray  for  the  Congo  IMission  and 
prepare  to  follow  on  ;  we  shall  soon  require  more 
volunteers,  please  God.'' 


KROO.BOYS. 


The  donkc}'s  were  shipped  at  Teiiei-iffc  as  arranged, 
and  from  Sierra  Leone  Mr.  McCall  wrote  that  he 
had  succeeded  in  engaging  five  and  twenty  Kroo- 
men  on  the  usual  terms  ;  that  is,  for  a  year's  service, 
the  hirer  to  pay  travelHng  expenses  both  ways. 
These  men  are  so  much  in  demand  as  labourers  that 
they  get  pretty  good  pay,  and  always  expect  a 
month's  wages  in  advance.  The  headmen  have  two 
shillings  a  day  each,  and  the  others  one  shilling. 
They  have  to  be  fed  and  lodged,  and  sent  home  if 
ill,  so  that  they  are  pretty  expensive  helpers.  At 
the  time  of  which  we  write  however  no  assistance 
could  be  procured  from  the  natives,  so  that  these 
costly  imported  servants  were  essential  to  progress. 

At  first  they  all  refused  to  go  to  the  Congo,  saying 
it  was  "a  bad  country  and  plenty  jigger."  But 
when  they  understood  that  the  party  was  a  mis- 
sionar}'  one,  they  changed  their  minds.  "  Oh  !  then 
you  be  good  men  ;  you  do  us  right,  we  go  !  "  Kroo- 
boy  English  is  a  curious  jargon,  just  sufficiently 
comprehensive  for  needful  uses.  One  young  fellow 
asked  whether  there  was  a  Church  on  the  Congo. 
"  No,  m}'  boy  ;  that's  just  what  we  are  going  to  tr)- 
to  raise  up."  "Oh!  I'm  so  glad  !  for  I'm  a  Church 
member."  And  he  produced  his  h\'mn-book  and  his 
communion  ticket. 

At  Mallacoree,  the  ]\inguard  stopped  over  a  Sun- 
da}-  to  discharge,  alas  !  1,500  packages  of  rum  and  gin, 
to  poison  the  poor  natives,  a  sight  which  alwa)'s 
sends  a  pang  to  the  heart,  and  brings  a  blush  to  the 
cheek  o    the  ICuropean  or   American   missionar)'  to 


A    KUOO-i;OV    HEADMAN    (DUKsiED). 
=  '4 


RUM  AND   THE   GOSPEL.  215 

Africa.  He  is  going  with  a  message  of  life  and 
regeneration,  but  the  ship  that  carries  him  is  laden 
with  death  and  demoralization !  These  detentions 
are  dangerous  too  on  this  fever-stricken  coast.  But 
administering  quinine  all  round  as  a  preventive,  the 
party  landed,  and  finding  English-speaking  natives 
anxious  to  "  have  a  Church,"  a  hearty  service  was 
held.  A  reconciliation  was  subsequently  effected  be- 
tween two  of  the  black  brethren  who  had  quarrelled. 
Some  of  the  native  Christians  expressed  an  earnest 
desire  to  go  with  the  mission  party,  and  help  them 
for  love's  sake  ;  and  one  actually  did  so.  Cheered  by 
the  evidence  thus  afforded  of  the  success  of  African 
missions,  the  party  pursued  their  journey,  landing 
here  and  there  where  the  vessel  called.  At  one  port, 
walking  a  little  outside  the  town,  they  were  shocked 
at  the  broken  gin-bottles  lying  about,  "  sad  evidences 
of  our  commercial  Christianit}'.  Alas  !  some  people 
will  have  a  fearful  account  to  render  of  the  trade 
carried  on  with  these  places." 

Towards  the  end  of  April  the  Vanguard  reached 
Banana,  at  the  mouth  of  the  Congo.  Mr.  McCall 
wrote  : 

The  wliole  sea,  long  before  we  got  near  tlie  entrance,  \va^  of  a  deep 
brown  colour  and  quite  fresh  water,  with  a  strong  current  running  out 
towards  the  ocean.  It  is  a  pretty  little  place  this  Banana,  consisting 
of  several  large  stores  with  numerous  outbuildings,  all  snow  white,  and 
showing  out  boldly  amidst  the  bright  green  foliage.  We  steamed  up 
the  creek  and  anchored  opposite  the  French  house.  After  the  captain 
and  I  had  been  ashore  and  duly  arranged  for  the  storing  of  our  goods 
and  numerous  packages,  we  went  on  board  again,  and  set  our  boys  to 
work  to  take  them  ashore.  I  had  a  very  busy  day  going  backwards 
and  forwards,  superintending  and  directing.       We  were  hartl  at  it  until 


2i6  THE   CONGO  AT  LAST. 

dark,  commencing  again  very  earlj'  next  morning.  One  unfortunate 
donkey  fell  into  the  water  from  the  ship,  anrl  obstinately  refused  to  he 
hauled  into  the  boat,  so  we  had  to  tow  liim  behind  ;  he  however 
arrived  safely.  The  poor  beasts  were  so  glad  to  get  once  more  on 
dry  land,  and  evinced  their  delight  by  taking  a  good  roll  on  the  soft 
sand  which  everywhere  abounds. 

Then  I  had  to  make  arrangements  for  our  boys'  cooking  and  rations, 
and  to  see  the  donkeys  properly  looked  after.  All  day  on  Saturday  we 
were  busy  :  on  Sunday  we  held  our  two  services  ;  a  goodly  gathering 
morning  and  evening  ;  our  boys  sing  beautifully. 

All  the  following  week  we  were  busy  every  day,  going  through  our 
cases  and  bales  (over  300),  arranging,  opening,  rearranging,  etc.,  etc. 
Then  there  was  our  boat  to  look  after,  and  send  to  the  river  for  water 
(fresh),  medicines  to  get  out,  make  up,  and  administer,  instruments  to 
get  in  order,  guns  tf)  clean,  cartridges  to  load,  rules  and  regulations  to 
frame  and  establish,  and  an  endless  variety  of  odds  and  ends  to  be 
done.  On  Friday  we  commenced  to  load  a  schooner,  the  Mitien'a, 
with  the  bulk  of  our  goods  and  provisions,  and  part  of  our  troop  of 
donkeys,  and  on  Saturday  it  was  despatched  to  Homa  with  Brother 
Clarke  in  charge. 

I  preached  yesterday  to  a  gof)d  congregation  in  the  afternoon,  from 
the  text  Ezra  viii.  21-23.  Our  boys  are  conducting  themselves  veiy 
well,  and  have  caused  us  no  trouble  as  yet,  which  is  a  matter  for  great 
thankfulness.  We  are  exceedingly  well  in  general  health,  none  of  us 
having  had  the  least  symptom  of  fever  as  yet.  I  have  adopted  pro- 
]ihylactic  measures,  and  by  God's  good  blessing  with  perfect  success. 
Our  heavenly  Father  has  been  with  us,  and  mercifully  guided  and 
protected  us  hitherto,  and  we  have  the  most  perfect  trust  and  confi- 
dence in  Him  for  the  future.  AVe  intend  (D.V.)  to  proceed  up  the 
river  to  Boma  in  a  few  days,  witli  our  remaining  goods,  boys,  and 
donkeys. 

It  was  not  long  however  before  there  began  the 
usual  African  experiences  of  delays,  disappointments, 
and  fevers.  The  timber,  which  had  been  sent  b}'  a 
sailing  vessel  from  Cardiff,  for  the  new  store  on  the 
lower  river  had  not  arrived  ;  Mr.  Richards,  who  was 
to  have  met  his  wife,  was  laid  up  with  fever  at  l^oma  ; 
McKcrgow  was    also    ill    at    IMatadi  :    but    throwing 


DIFFICULTIES  AT  STARTING.  217 

all  ill's  cheerful  cnerg}-  into  his  task,  and  seconded 
most  heartily  b}'  his  colleagues,  McCall  pressed 
through  the  initiatory  difficulties,  and  got  his  part}', 
Kroo-men,  donkeys,  and  all,  up  as  far  as  Boma. 

There  they  were  met  by  the  sad  tidings  of  the 
death  of  Mr.  Petersen,  at  Banza  Manteka,  in  Ma\', 
the  second  member  of  the  mission  called  thus  earU- 
to  receiv^e  his  reward.  As  in  the  previous  case,  this 
death  arose,  to  all  appearance,  accidentally,  from  lack 
of  needful  care  and  nursing  when  the  fever  came  on. 
It  was  one  of  those  unfortunate  contingencies  to 
which  pioneers  are  liable,  that  this  good  brother  was 
alone  at  the  time  he  was  taken  ill.  In  going  to  meet 
his  wife  and  escort  her  up  the  country,  Mr.  Richards 
had  been  obliged  to  leave  his  colleague  by  himself, 
but  expected  it  would  be  only  for  a  few  days,  so  felt 
no  uneasiness  or  hesitation  about  the  step.  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Johnson  were  moreover  to  replace  him  during 
his  brief  absence,  and  would  have  been  at  Banza 
Manteka  before  Mr.  Petersen's  attack,  only  that  the}- 
were  themselves  detained  on  the  wa}'  up  b}'  illness. 

But  in  that  brief  interval  Mr.  Petersen  was  taken 
ill  with  severe  fever  ;  and  again  was  the  sad  tragedy 
enacted  of  a  sick  and  suffering  white  man  sinking 
into  delirium  and  unconsciousness,  all  alone  among 
the  heathen.  None  to  nurse,  none  to  prescribe,  none 
to  soothe  or  cheer  the  sufferer.  When  at  last  lielp 
arrived  it  was,  as  in  Telford's  case,  too  late.  Mr. 
Johnson  wrote  : 

"  It  was  on  the  afternoon  of  the  fourth  da\-  that  we 
sisjhted   the  station   at  some  little  distance.     We  ex- 


MR.  CHARLhlo  i'ETERSEN. 


pected  to  see  Air.  Petersen  coming  to  meet  us,  for  the 
Kroo-boys  had  fired  to  give  notice  of  our  approach. 
But  all  was  still  as  the  grave  !  Xot  a  sound  was  to 
be  heard. 

"  We  made  our  wa)'  as  quickly  as  possible  into  the 
house.  It  was  not  difficult,  for  the  door  is  onl)'  a 
mat.  We  asked  the  Kroo-bo\',  '  Where  is  Mr.  Peter- 
sen ? '  He  pointed  to  an  inner  room  ;  it  had  mats 
before  the  windows,  and  was  dark.  We  entered. 
Our  poor  friend  was  sitting  up  in  a  chair,  but  looking 


DEATH  OF  MR.  PETERSEN.  219 


more  like  a  corpse  than  a  living  man.  He  could 
scarcely  speak  to  us,  but  pressed  our  hands.  He  had 
eaten  nothing  for  a  week  ;  we  got  him  some  chicken 
broth  as  quickly  as  possible,  and  he  was  able  to  take 
it.  That  night  he  slept,  but  he  could  not  keep  down 
the  quinine,  and  the  fever  got  more  and  more  power 
over  him.  We  tried  everything  we  could  think  of, 
and  were  by  his  side  all  day  ;  but  not  a  word  could 
he  speak.  About  midnight  he  groaned  several  times, 
then  was  quite  quiet  till  about  half-past  three  or  four 
o'clock  next  morning,  when,  with  his  hand  in  mine, 
he  fell  asleep  in  Jesus  !  It  was  a  solemn  night  to  us 
— left  behind  !  .  .  .  As  soon  as  we  could  manage 
to  see,  I  had,  with  the  help  of  the  Kroo-boy,  to  begin 
to  dig  his  grave.  Oh  the  sorrow  that  filled  my  dear 
wife's  heart  and  my  own,  as  we  laid  him  in  his  last 
resting  place,  to  await  the  resurrection  morning  !  " 

Mr.  Petersen  was  a  Dane,  a  valuable  and  faithful 
man.  He  had  been  little  more  than  a  year  on  the 
Congo.  How  our  hearts  sank  on  receipt  of  the 
news  !  This  enterprise  was  going  to  be  as  costly  in 
lives  as  in  money.  We  began  to  feel  it  then,  though 
not  as  we  felt  it  a  year  later.  Yet  we  could  scarcely 
grieve  for  the  one  who  had  been  permitted  to  die 
thus  for  Christ,  and  for  Africa.  For  had  not  Christ 
died  for  him  ?  and  did  not  poor,  bleeding  Africa  need 
to  be  rescued  from  death  and  miser}-,  even  at  the 
cost  of  self-sacrifice? 

Only  a  few  weeks  before,  this  same  dear  Petersen 
had  written  an  account  of  a  rescue  he  had  just 
effected.     A  miserable  man  and  woman  were  accused 


220  ''BURN  IIIM  ALIVEr 

of  bciiifj  possessed  with  an  c'\il  spirit  because  some 
chief  man's  wife  had  died.  The  ''kinfj"  told  our 
friend  he  was  £^oinc(  to  kill  them,  and  the  capito 
seemed  possessed  with  a  thirst  for  blood.  Both  were 
in  a  fearful  temper,  and  would  listen  to  no  pleadin^^ 
Mr.  Petersen  rcsol\-cd  to  sec  what  could  be  done  for 
the  poor  fellow. 

"  I  found  liiin  surrounded,"  he  writts,  "by ten  or  twelve  murderous- 
looking  fellows,  with  guns  and  matchets.  lie  wept  when  he  saw  nic, 
and  said,  '  I  have  done  nothing,  yet  I  must  die  ! '  '  Tray  to  God  to  save 
you,'  I  said;  and  seeing  no  time  was  to  be  lost,  I  went  to  the  king's 
house.  lie  sent  me  away,  would  not  speak  to  me,  1)Ut  thundered  at 
the  people  to  take  the  man  out  of  the  town  and  burn  him  alive.  I 
insisted  ou  going  in,  and  told  him  I  had  a  message  from  God  to  him  ; 
God  says,  'blood  for  blood,'  but  this  man  had  done  nothing.  I 
bad  \\\\\\  fear  God,  who  could  kill  and  cast  into  hell.  This  moved 
him.  I  seized  the  chance,  and  said,  '  Sell  the  man  to  me  !  I  will 
take  him  away  and  keep  him.'  After  long  arguing  and  bargaining  he 
consented,  on  condition  I  should  send  him  out  of  the  countiy  at  once. 
I  could  not  do  this,  as  Craven  is  away;  so  I  have  had  to  chain  him  up 
under  our  dining-room  table,  or  there  would  be  a  disturbance  in  the 
town  :  they  are  afraid  of  him.     Poor  fellow  !  how  he  wce[)s  I  " 

The  man  was  saved,  but  the  woman,  who  tried  to 
escape,  was  caught,  and  thrown  into  the  M'poso  River 
with  a  stone  tied  round  her  neck.  As  if  death  did 
not  bring  sorrow  and  misery  enough,  it  is  almost 
alwa)'s  followed  by  murder  in  these  dark  and  cruel 
lands,  and  sometimes  b}^  murder  on  a  gigantic 
scale  ;  the  notion  being  that  ever)'  death  is  the 
fault  of  some  one  or  other,  who  deserves  to  suffer 
for  having  killed  the  deceased.  The  horrid  cruelties 
to  which  men  are  driven  by  superstitions  prove  that 
Satan  is  a  hard  taskmaster, — "  a  murderer  from  the 
bcLrinnincf." 


A    STATION  AT  MATADI. 


It  was  the  25th  of  May  before  the  party  we  left 
at  Boma  were  ready  to  proceed  up  the  river  to  its 
farthest  navigable  point,  just  below  the  falls  of 
Yellala.  This  they  had  to  do  in  a  sailing  boat, 
which  they  had  taken  out  with  them,  one  not  too 
large  to  be  rowed  when  the  wind  dropped,  as  it  con- 
stantly does  in  the  tropics  in  the  middle  of  the  day. 
It  was  a  difficult  trip,  the  current  being  tremendous  at 
points,  requiring  ropes  to  be  passed  ashore  for  haul- 
ing. Our  friends  w'ere  convinced  of  the  necessity 
for  steam  power  if  this  same  voyage  was  to  be  made 
often  !  It  took  them  two  days,  though  only  thirty 
or  forty  miles,  and  at  night  they  slept  in  the  boat. 
Steamers  are  now  plying  constantly  on  this  part  of 
the  Lower  Congo,  but  in  1880  there  were  none  be- 
yond Boma,  and  even  to  that  point  travellers  had 
to  be  indebted  to  the  courtesy  of  traders  for  a 
passage.  With  a  view  to  the  convenience  of  landing 
goods  and  passengers  at  the  last  navigable  point  on 
the  lower  river,  a  station  was  erected  at 

MATADI    MINKANDA. 

This  is  a  rocky  point  above  the  M'poso  River,  and 
just  opposite  Vivi.     From  this  place  McCall  wrote  : 

Here  now  we  shall  have  a  roomy,  comfortable,  cheerful  home,  a 
capacious  store,  and  suitable  out-buildings.  Here  all  our  things 
coming  up  the  river  can  be  received  and  housed.  Here  all  the  dear 
brethren  will  find  a  comfortable  home  on  arrival.  Here  will  be  found 
our  base  of  supplies  when  we  are  far  up  the  country  exploring ;  the 
base,  in  fact,  of  our  beloved  mission,  which  strives  to  open  \\]>  to  the 
light  of  gospel  truth  and  the  blessings  of  civilization  this  dark  but 
beautiful  land. 

We  do  not  know  exactly  how  or  to  what  extent  we  shall  be  sup- 


222  DIII-ICULTIES  AND  DELAY. 

jKHtecl,  but  we  have  no  fear,  not  a  bit  ;  we  trust  fully  and  simply  in 
our  risen  Lorii.  As  we  were  saying  at  our  prayer-meeting  la>t  night, 
we  will  all  stick  t(jgether,  and  come  what  may,  we  feel  sure  that  if  it 
is  the  Lord's  will  that  we  shall  succeed  in  establishing  ourselves  in  thia 
land,  He  will  send  us  all  needed  support  ;  and,  with  you  and  many 
kind  friends  and  dear  people  of  God  in  England  to  pray  for  us  and 
help  us,  we  go  joyfully  and  hopefully  on. 

I  send  you  tracings  of  the  new  station,  which  will  show  you  exactly 
what  we  are  doing.  We  call  it  by  its  native  name,  the  name  by  which 
the  place  is  known  ttj  all  natives,  Matadi  Minkanda  ;  the  first  mean- 
ing stones,  the  second /(z////  trees  :  we  have  plenty  of  both.  We  think 
this  preferable  to  giving  English  names  to  our  stations. 

Our  donkeys  are  all  in  splendid  condition.  When  at  Boma  they 
were  dreadfully  poor  and  thin,  now  they  are  looking  capital.  W'e  have 
two  pigs,  sixty  fowls,  several  dogs,  and  quite  a  little  town.  Send  us 
out  a  brother  to  help  here.  He  must  be  strong  and  used  to  hard 
manual  labour,  for  we  have  abundance  of  that  and  enjoy  it. 

Clarke,  Lanceley,  and  I  start  for  the  interior  in  three  or  four  days, 
leaving  McKergow  and  Harvey  here  for  the  present ;  McKergow  to 
finish  the  house,  Harvey  (who  is  still  very  far  from  well,  and  unable 
to  walk  half  a  mile)  to  look  after  the  camp  and  teach  our  boys. 

Since  I  last  wrote,  Richards  has  been  ivri'  ///,  at  death's  door.  I 
was  sent  for,  post  haste,  to  attend  him  (at  Palabala).  I  found  hina 
very  far  gone  ;  he  had  been  delirious  and  vomiting  constantly  for  four 
days.  I  was  able  fortunately  by  the  use  of  appropriate  remedies  to 
arrest  the  vomiting  at  once,  and  in  two  days  to  reduce  all  the  symp- 
toms and  bring  him  round  on  a  fair  way  to  complete  recovery.  All 
our  party  have  been  down  again  with  short  attacks  of  fever,  excepting 
myself ;  and  with  them  and  the  boys  I  have  any  amount  of  medical 
practice;  in  Axct,  what  with  one  thing  and  another,  from  6  a.m.  to 
lo  or  II  p.m.,  I  have  scarcely  breathing  time. 

The  work  at  Matadi  occupied  the  party  until 
September.  No  advance  up  country  was  attempted 
until  the  brethren  to  be  left  behind  to  complete  the 
station  and  carry  on  the  work,  were  safely  housed 
and  in  a  position  to  make  progress. 

The  delay  in  sending  on  the  expected  goods  and 
timber   was   great   and    unaccountable,   and    obliged 


"stones  and  palm  trees." 

Mr.  McCall  to  go  down  again  to  Banana.  There  he 
found  difficulties  thickening  around  him  ;  expenses 
were  unaccountably  heavy,  disappointments  and  de- 
lays were  vexatious,  so  that  he  felt  much  tried  and 
cast  upon  God  for  help.  His  hope  had  been  to 
march  right  through  at  once  to  Stanley  Pool,  and 
to  establish  a  station  there  before  the  rainy  season. 
Theoretically  it  seemed  possible,  and  all  his  plans 
had  been  carefully  laid,  but  on  the  basis  of  the 
donkeys  being  able  to  travel.  This,  alas  !  proved  a 
delusive  hope,  and  its  failure  shipwrecked  the  whole 


224  niFFICULT  TRAVELLING. 


scheme  !  The  experiment  was  as  complete  a  failure 
as  the  attempt  to  introduce  oxen  for  the  journey 
from  the  east  C(jast  to  Tanj^anyika,  and  after  much 
loss  of  time  and  money  it  had  to  be  abandoned. 

Wnv  NOT  Use  Donkeys  as  Beasts  of  Burden 
IN  Central  Africa  ? 

The  following  extract  from  Mr.  IMcCall's  journal 
of  the  first  journey  in  which  the  donkeys  were 
employed  will  answer  this  cjuestion,  and  convey  an 
idea  of  the  difficulties  encountered  in  the  attempt  to 
find  some  substitute  for  human  burden-bearers.  It 
will  give  also  a  good  notion  of  the  kind  of  country 
through  which  the  missionaries  had  to  penetrate. 

''Friday,  Sept.  13///,  1880.— Had  all  the  donkeys  ranged,  saddled, 
and  loaded  up,  the  weights  having  to  be  equally  balanced  on  either 
side.  In  addition  to  the  full  saddle  bags,  small  bales,  axes,  spades, 
pick,  saw,  buckets,  etc.,  and  a  heap  of  other  things  had  to  be  slung 
and  arranged  ;  it  was  dark  when  we  had  finished. 

"■  Saluniay,  14//^ — Before  sunrise  there  was  bustle  and  activity  all 
over  the  camp.  Tents  were  struck  and  put  away,  and  a  tremendous 
heap  of  general  impedimenta  cleared  up ;  donkeys  loaded  ;  loud  callrt 
for  string  and  rope  on  all  sides.  After  a  hasty  cup  of  coffee  I  sounded 
my  whistle,  and  every  man  stood  by  his  donkey,  and  all  at  last  being 
quite  ready,  I  stood  at  the  exit  from  our  camp,  and  called  out  the 
numbers  from  No.  I  to  30  consecutively,  each  man  answering  to  his 
number  and  fding  out  past  me  in  good  order.  Every  donkey  has  his 
number  corresponding  to  the  number  of  his  saddle,  and  each  pair  of 
saddle  bags  is  numbered  and  labelled  A  and  13.  Every  man  carried 
a  load  on  his  head  also  ;  medicine  chest,  office  box  (filled  with  writing 
materials,  maps,  a  few  books,  surgical  case,  spare  drug  box  ;  our 
travelling  jiantry,  containing  Utile  bags  of  tea,  coffee,  sugar,  pepperj 
salt,  etc.,  plates,  knives  and  forks,  cups  and  spoons),  a  demijohn  of 
oil  (or  our  lamps  (we  carried  no  candles),  etc.     All  passed  muster   in 


EXPERfMENTlNG  IN  DONKEYS.  225 


capital  order,  up  tlic  rise,  and  past  our  new  building,  and  on  to  the 
plateau  beyond,  where  we  formed  our  permanent  '  order  of  march.' 


"  The  path  now  al)ruplly  descended  to  tlie  watercourse  (wlience 
we  obtained  our  supply  at  Matadi),  and  was  exceedingly  rough, 
rocky,  and  slippery.  INIcKergow  and  I  walked  ahead,  selecting  the 
easiest  places  and  directing  the  boys  where  to  walk  with  their  donkeys. 
^Ye  got  down  to  the  bed  of  the  stream  without  mishap,  but  came  to 
woeful  grief  in  getting  across  ;  the  passage  consists  of  a  confused  heap 
of  huge  boulders,  very  unsuitable  for  loaded  donkeys  to'scramble 
through. 

"  One  donkey  went  down,  and  got  its  legs  jammed  between  the 
stones,  and  defied  tlie  united  strenuous  efforts  of  McKergow,  Charlie, 
and  myself  to  extricate  it.  So  we  took  off  the  load  and  saddle,  and 
then  lifted  her  bodily  up,  after  which  she  managed  to  clamber  up  the 
bare  rock  path  and  arrived  safely.  All  the  donkeys  were  hauled 
through  with  a  great  struggle,  even  with  every  load  taken  off  and 
carried  up  to  level  ground  by  the  boys.  This  of  course  entailed  an 
immense  amount  of  heavy  work  for  all  hands,  and  by  the  time  it  was 
finished  and  everything  placed  on  the  level  above,  it  was  necessary 
to  liave  breakfast  cooked.  So  much  for  our  first  march.  After  break- 
fast donkeys  were  loaded  again,  and  we  made  a  fresh  start,  as  it  was 
necessary  to  reach  the  M'poso  River  by  the  evening. 

"The  path  now  ascended  very  steeply  indeed,  and  consisted  of 
slippery  rocks  ;  several  donkeys  got  up  the  rise  with  a  struggle,  then 
down  went  No.  4,  then  No.  5,  and  so  on.  Loads  had  again  to  be 
taken  off  and  carried  up  to  the  top  of  the  hill,  and  put  on  again  there. 
This  hindered  us  of  course,  but  was  unavoidable  ;  all  being  up,  and 
'  things '  put  straight,  we  went  ahead  again  through  a  small  village 
called  Mabialla's,  arriving  soon  after  in  a  very  diftlcult  place,  an  almost 
perpendicular  wall  of  rock  ascended  by  a  rough  rocky  stair  with  turns 
and  twists  and  jumps  of  from  two  to  four  feet  at  a  time.  We  made 
a  most  determined  attempt  to  get  No.  i  donkey  up  without  unloading 
her,  Mac  and  I  tumbling  up  alongside  and  fairly  carrying  the  saddle- 
bags between  us ;  but  when  two-thirds  the  way  up  down  she  fell 
heavily,  and  could  not  rise.  So  we  had  again  to  unload  every  donkey 
and  have  the  loads  carried  up,  being  the  third  time  this  operation 
had  to  be  performed  in  as  many  miles.  The  heat  also  was  excessive 
and  tried  us  all  sorely.  Once  more  we  got  in  order  and  proceeded 
now  on  a  much  better  path,  but  always  steadily  ascending  and  passing 

C.  A.  I  5 


a26  A  MISSlONAl^y  JOURNAL. 

through    rank   grass  eight  or    W\\   feel   high,    nearly  obliterating   the 
narrow  path. 

"We  piibhed  on  at  a  fair  pace,  and  gained  the  top  of  the  dividing 
ridge  of  hills,  and  when  well  on  the  level  rested  men  and  donkeys  for 
ten  minutes.  Proceeding  now  along  the  shoulder  of  a  considerable 
hill  we  commenced  the  descent  to  the  M'poso  valley,  a  very  steep  one, 
the  path  being  thickly  strewn  with  loose  quartz  blocks,  and  requiring 
great  care  in  guiding  the  donkeys  down.  I  pushed  on  ahead  to  select 
a  camping  place,  and  soon  found  a  tolerably  good  one  close  to  the  river. 
As  the  donkeys  came  in  one  by  one,  their  loads  were  immediately 
taken  off  and  arranged  in  order.  As  soon  as  the  tent  awning  (a  con- 
trivance of  my  own,  far  more  roomy  than  a  tent,  and  less  weight  and 
trouble)  arrived,  it  was  unfastened,  and  throwing  the  suspending  ropes 
over  the  branches  of  a  couple  of  trees  about  thirty  feet  apart,  it  was 
stretched  in  a  few  minutes,  the  side  ropes  holding  out  the  awning 
being  tied  to  the  long  grass,  a  very  simple  and  speedy  arrangement. 
Then  the  hammocks  (our  own  make)  were  pitched,  the  ground  cleared 
a  bit,  firewood  fetched,  supper  cooked,  and  all  put  in  order  for  the 
night.  The  donkeys,  after  having  been  taken  to  water,  were  all  tied 
up  as  usual.  Clarke  was  veiy  poorly,  and  '  turned  in  '  at  once.  We 
divided  the  night  into  three  watches  of  three  hours  each,  beginning  at 
nine  p.m.  until  six  a.m.,  I  taking  the  first." 

^'■Monday,  l6th. — Coffee  at  six  a.m.,  then  all  hands  down  to  the 
river  to  commence  the  important  business  of  getting  our  donkeys  and 
goods  across.  The  river  here  is  about  fifty  yards  wide,  flowing  between 
high  and  densely  wooded  banks,  about  fifteen  feet  above  the  water 
level.  We  first  stretched  our  strong  rope  (carried  for  such  purposes) 
across  the  stream,  securing  the  ends  to  some  large  trees  conveniently 
growing  just  where  we  required  them,  and  found  that  one  boy,  by 
passing  his  hands  along  this  rope,  could  pull  a  small  canoe  easily  from 
side  to  side.  No.  I  donkey  was  now  brought  down  and  pushed  into 
the  water,  one  boy  silting  at  the  stern  and  holding  the  donkey  by  the 
head,  and  two  others  rapidly  pulling  the  canoe  across  to  the  opposite 
bank,  where  we  had  other  boys  to  receive  them  and  take  the  donkey 
up  the  bank  to  grass.  We  found  our  plan  work  admirably,  and  in  a 
remarkably  short  time  the  whole  twenty  donkeys  were  safely  conveyed 
over  or  rather  through  the  M'poso  River,  the  saddles,  saddlebags,  bales, 
etc.,  following  in  rapid  succession.  Meanwhile  I  was  superintending 
'  breaking  camp,' and  by  eight  a.m.  everything  was  finished  and  over 
the  river,  which  was  very  good  work,  and  a  much  shorter  time  than 
we  had  anticipated.     We  took  breakfast,  and  then  proceeded  to  load 


HEAVY   WORK. 


227 


'^'s^^^^^^^^^m. 


<^''rj 


MOUTH   OF  THE  m'pOSO   RIVER. 


up  donkeys  and  men,  the  loads  having  to  be  carried  about  a  quarter 
of  a  mile  to  the  donkeys.  This  of  course  occupied  some  time,  the 
boys  working  hard  and  willingly.  All  being  ready,  my  whistle  rung 
out,  and  away  we  went.  The  path  was  rough  but  tolerably  even,  and 
gradually  ascended  a  very  long  hill  side.  After  about  fifteen  minutes' 
march  we  had  to  cut  down  a  couple  of  small  trees  which  rather 
obstructed  our  passage.  This  was  done  in  two  minutes  with  one  of 
our  American  axes,  kept  handy  on  No.  2  donkey  for  such  cases.  I 
called  a  halt  for  six  minutes'  rest  when  about  half  way  up  the  long 
hill,  and  another  when  we  gained  the  top.  The  patli  now  became 
very  good,  nearly  level,  and  quite  smooth ;  sun-baked  clay,  hedged 
in  by  tall  rank  grasses  and  dense  undergrowth,  interspersed  with  tall 
cotton-wood  trees,  acacias,  and  graceful  palms.     We  were  now  travcrs- 


228  A   MAN  JiUKNT  TO  DEATH. 


ing  llie  suunnil  <jf  llic  narrow  ridge  or  range  of  hills  running  parallel 
to  the  I'alabala  range,  and  obtained  on  either  hand  lovely  views  of 
mountain  scenery  every  few  minutes. 

"Away  behind  us  the  rocky,  palm-crowned  heights  of  Nokki  stocKl 
boldly  and  grandly  out  in  the  clear  warm  air.  More  immediately 
behind  us  the  .M'poso  wound  and  curved  its  silvery  length  between  its 
verdant  and  pictures<iue  banks.  To  our  left  we  caught  a  glimpse  of 
the  great  Congo  itself  through  an  opening  in  the  perfect  sea  of  hills 
and  valleys  intervening  ;  and  on  our  right  the  long  and  wo(xled 
eminence  of  Palabala  and  one  or  two  other  small  villages.  We  were 
making  good  j^rogress,  both  donkeys  and  men  stepping  out  well.  We 
passed  through  a  small  town  quite  hidden  by  luxuriant  palm  trees, 
and  halted  a  few  hundred  yards  beyond.  .  .  .  Just  at  the  angle 
where  two  paths  diverged  we  beheld  a  strange,  sad  sight.  A  native 
man  had  l)cen  burnt  to  death  for  attempting  to  shoot  a  young  king 
and  seriously  wounding  him.  In  the  centre  of  the  triangular  space 
was  a  large  circular  heap  of  whitened  ashes,  with  a  charred  stake  in 
the  middle.  A  few  yards  from  this  was  the  gun  with  which  the  deed 
had  been  done,  stuck  into  the  ground,  muzzle  down.  McKergow 
and  I,  advancing  to  liave  a  nearer  look,  found  the  calcined  skull  of  the 
wretched  criminal.     .     .     ." 

Passing  by  Palabala  with  only  a  brief  visit  to 
Ml',  and  Mrs.  Craven  and  the  "king,"  not  delaying 
the  caravan  at  all,  they  progressed  fairly  well  on 
P"riday,  the  20th,  as  the  path  wound  about,  up  and 
down  over  gentle  rises,  and  through  wooded  valleys. 
Still  one  or  two  of  the  donkeys  became  intractable, 
and  would  not  go  on — arriving  an  hour  after  the 
caravan  at  the  camping  place.  On  Saturday  two 
of  the  donkeys  were  already  dead.  Each  death  made 
a  loss  of  carrying  power  to  the  extent  of  eighty 
pounds,  and  the  loads  of  the  dead  beasts  had  to  be 
otherwise  disposed  of 

'^  Thursday y  26th. — Started  at  6.30  a.m.  Very  heavy  day  indeed, 
steep  hills,  deep  valleys,  almost  impenetrable  Woods,  and  so  on,  to 
traverse.     No.  18  donkey  gave  in  at  once ;  its  load  and  saddle  were 


DONKEYS  ATTACKED  BY  WASPS.  229 


taken  off  and  carried,  but  tlien  it  would  not  move.  I  was  bound  to 
pusli  on  witli  the  main  body,  altliouj^li  I  made  several  long  halts  to 
give  time  for  No.  18  to  be  brought  on  if  possible.  We  did  not  halt 
for  breakfast  until  noon,  and  there  was  not  a  drop  of  water  to  be  had  ; 
we  of  course  carried  enough  for  our  own  use  in  our  indiarubber  water 
bags  (which  have  proved  very  valuable  acquisitions,  and  I  can  recom- 
mend their  use  to  other  travellers  in  dry  countries). 

"About  an  hour  and  a  half  after  we  had  halted  second  headman  and 
others  came  in,  reporting  Xo.  18  donkey  a  fixture,  and  attacked  by 
hundreds  of  wasps  ;  and  No.  16  having  also  come  to  grief,  his  loads 
were  brought  in  ;  this  was  very  annoying  indeed.  I  was  determined 
not  to  leave  the  donkeys  without  a  struggle,  so  I  sent  the  second  head- 
man back  and  two  other  men  to  bring  up  both,  or  at  any  rate  one  of 
them,  ordering  him  to  stay  all  night  if  necessary.  Then  we  went  on 
again,  and  emerging  from  the  wood,  passed  down  in  an  hour  and  a 
half  to  the  river  Silenne ;  camped  here  all  next  day,  and  proceeded 
on  Saturday  morning ;  halted  again  on  Sunday  and  Monday,  the 
donkeys  being  so  weak." 

So  things  went  on  !  One  donkey  after  another 
died,  till  the  twenty-five  were  reduced  to  half  a  dozen, 
and  Mr.  McCall  deterrnincd  to  abandon  the  attempt 
to  use  them,  and  to  get  on  without  their  help,  which 
has  indeed  proved  to  be  only  hindrance. 

It  was  a  sore  disappointment,  and  it  was  not  clear 
wh)'  the  poor  beasts  failed.  Whether  the  fatigue 
was  excessive,  or  the  food  did  not  suit  them,  or 
whether  they  ate  something  poisonous,  their  owners 
were  never  satisfied.  But  it  was  evident  they  were 
no  use  on  journeys,  and  the  hope  of  help  from  a 
beast  of  burden  had  to  be  abandoned. 


With  it  went  also  all  hope  of  keeping  the  part}' 
together  and  carrying  at  one  time  sufficient  stores 
to  advance   boldl}-  to  the  Pool.      Henceforth   there 


230  JVO    CAh'KIF.h'S  rOR   I.OVE    OR   MONEV. 

would  have  to  be  short  journeys,  halts,  returns  of 
some  of  the  white  men  in  char^jc  of  Kroo-bo)'s  to 
bring  up  more  goods  and  so  forth  ;  and  all  this  meant 
constant  exposure,  severe  labour,  and  ever-recurring 
risks. 

JUit  there  was  no  help.  The  natives  would  not  at 
that  time  carry  ;  they  were  too  timid  to  go  up  the 
river  into  the  unknown  regions  beyond.  Nozi>  native 
caravans  go  freely,  and  without  a  white  man.  J'ro- 
gress  has  already  been  very  rapid  on  the  Congo. 
The  last  ten  years  have  made  wonderful  differences. 
Many  barriers  have  been  broken  down,  and  the 
confidence  of  the  natives  has  been  gained. 

But  in  1880  gangs  of  native  porters  to  go  to  the 
Pool  were  not  to  be  had  for  love  or  money.  With  only 
such  stores  therefore  as  could  be  carried  by  their  own 
Kroo-boys,  the  party  moved  on  from  Banza  Mantcka 
While  there  McCall  had  a  very  severe  illness,  an 
attack  of  inflammation  of  the  liver.  Years  previously 
in  the  Zambesi  country  he  had  had  a  similar  one. 
This  recurrence  indicated  that  he  was  really  unfit  for 
tropical  life  ;  but  he  was  loth  to  think  so,  and  treating 
himself  vigorously  for  the  malad}-,  he  resolved  to  push 
on  as  soon  as  at  all  well  enough,  in  spite  of  much 
weakness  and  pain. 

Starting  on  the  5th  of  October,  and  aware  that  by 
the  end  of  the  month  the  first  part  of  the  rainy  season 
would  be  coming  on,  they  were  intensely  anxious  to 
lose  no  time.  But,  alas !  this  most  precious  treasure 
is  precisely  the  thing  which  travellers  in  Africa  must 
lose,  whether  they  will  or  no  !     The  natives  have  no 


A    TIMELESS   WORLD.  231 

idea  of  the  value  of  time,  nor  can  they  conceive  why  it 
should  make  the  sh'ghtest  difference  whether  a  party 
moves  on  this  week  or  the  ncxt.^  They  will  cheerfully 
waste  a  whole  day,  or  two  if  it  be  needful,  to  secure 
a  better  price  for  their  goods,  when  there  is  the  least 
chance  of  doing  so  at  last.  With  all  their  ignorance 
they  have  learnt  the  secret  of  a  "  masterly  inactivity  " ; 
and  when  they  do  not  wish  a  white  man  to  proceed 
with  his  caravan,  they  perfectly  understand  how  to 
oppose  without  opposing,  by  simply  creating  ob- 
stacles, promising  help  which  they  have  no  intention 
of  rendering,  and  insisting  on  imaginary  difficulties 
ahead.  The  slightest  use  or  even  threat  of  force 
would  at  once  clear  the  way  in  most  cases,  for  the 
native  African  is  generally  a  timid  being,  and  in- 
clined to  fear,  look  up  to,  and  reverence  the  white 
man.  But  missionaries  cannot  force  their  way,  they 
have  to  tvin  it ;  and  if  they  cannot  do  this,  to  wait, 
or  turn  aside  and  try  some  other  route.  So  it  was 
on  this  occasion.     The   "  kings  "  of  the  first  district 


'  Professor  Drummond,  in  his  "Tropical  Africa,"  says:  "Amonfj 
the  presents  whicli  I  took  for  chiefs,  I  was  innocent  enough  to  inchide 
a  watch.  I  might  as  well  have  taken  a  grand  piano.  For  months  I 
never  looked  at  my  own  watch  in  that  land  of  sunshine.  ]5esides,  the 
mere  idea  of  time  has  scarcely  yet  penetrated  the  African  mind,  and 
forms  no  element  whatever  in  his  calculations.  I  wanted  on  one 
occasion  to  catch  the  little  steamer  on  the  Shire,  and  pleaded  this  as 
an  excuse  to  a  rather  powerful  chief,  whom  it  would  have  l^een  danger- 
ous to  quarrel  with,  and  who  would  not  let  me  leave  his  village.  The 
man  merely  stared.  The  idea  of  any  one  being  in  a  hurry  was  not  only 
preposterous,  but  inconceivable  ;  and  I  might  as  well  have  urged  as  my 
reason  for  wishing  away  that  the  angles  of  a  triangle  are  equal  to  two 
right  angles." 


LET  JJJ'JJJEKTO." 


they  passed,  assured  Mr.  McCall  that  there  would  be 
fightin<^  if  he  went  any  farther,  and  alluded  to  the 
fact  that  a  missionary  find  been  shot  at  Makuta  not 
lon^  before.  This  was  true,  as  our  friends  were 
aware,  Mr.  Comber,  of  the  B.M.S.,  having  been  shot 
in  trying  to  escape  from  a  most  unexpected  and  un- 
provoked attack  by  the  people  of  that  place.  Wish- 
ing therefore  to  avoid  any  conflict  with  the  natives, 
our  party  turned  towards  the  great  river,  and  making 
a  camp  at  a  place  the}'  named  Rivcrleigh  pondered 
l)ra\'erfull)'  how  best  to  proceed. 

From  this  point  the  river  was  cvidcntl)'  na\  igable, 
and  Mr.  Stanley  considered  it  so  far  as  I\Ian)'anga, 
near  which  place  the}-  wished  to  establish  the  next 
station.  That  the  navigation  would  be  sadl}'  risky 
in  native  canoes  was  very  evident.  But  no  artificial 
impediment  could  be  opposed  to  the  progress  of  the 
part}'  by  water,  and  as  there  would  be  less  difficulty 
about  carriage  of  goods,  time  would  probabl}'  be 
saved.  So  it  was  decided  that,  if  canoes  and  paddles 
and  a  guide  used  to  the  ri\cr  could  be  procured,  the 
next  stage  should  be  attempted  b}'  water. 

Hiring  a  couple  of  large  canoes  for  a  month,  they 
were  again  detained  for  man}-  da}-s  b}'  the  duplicity 
and  prevarication  of  local  chiefs,  who  promised  guides 
and  paddles,  and  then  broke  their  word.  The}-  had 
to  start  without  guides  at  last  on  the  turbulent  and 
treacherous  Congo,  and  with  varying  fortunes  and  not 
a  few  perils,  made  their  way  up  it  to  a  place  in  the 
territory  of  Manyanga  called  Bemba.  Here  they 
had    to   put   up   a   temporary   shelter,  for  the    rainy 


"J/K  TIMES  ARE  IN  THY  BANDS."  233 

season  was,  alas !  already  upon  them,  the  river  tre- 
mendously swollen,  and  tornadoes  and  storms  frequent. 

It  was  evident  little  more  could  be  done  that 
year  in  the  way  of  advance.  So  the  only  thing  was 
to  gain  what  knowledge  they  could  of  the  language, 
make  friends  with  the  people,  collect  their  goods  at 
this  point,  and  prepare  for  a  fresh  start  as  soon  as 
the  weather  permitted.  jMcCall  was  greatly  dis- 
appointed !     But  he  wrote  submissively  : 

"  We  know  everything  is  in  the  Lord's  almighty  and 
loving  hands  ;  He  can  and  will  help  us  ;  He  knows 
best,  and  we  are  willing  to  await  His  own  time  and 
way.  Our  constant  trust  is  in  Him,  and  we  rest 
assured  in  all  our  trials  that  if  it  is  His  hoi}'  will 
that  this  mission  shall  prosper  and  advance,  He  will 
enable  us  to  do  our  part  towards  making  it  do  so. 
My  whole  soul  and  spirit  is  bent  on  the  success  of 
this  work,  for  the  sake  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and 
for  His  sake  only.  It  is  His  work,  and  He  alone  can 
make  it  a  success  ;  in  Him  alone  do  I  trust." 

He  had  no  thought  of  lingering  longer  than  was 
needful  at  Bemba.  His"  determination  to  reach 
the  interior  was  firm,  and  his  desire  to  do  so  strong. 
He  knew  that  though  all  this  expense  of  labour  and 
money  and  time,  and  even  health,  did  not  seem  to 
be  on  direct  mission  work,  yet  that  in  reality  it  was 
so.  He  had  studied  with  deep  interest  Blaikie's 
"  Personal  Life  of  Livingstone,"  with  its  revelation  of 
the  utter  falsity  of  many  a  critique  on  the  life  of  that 
noble  missionary  hero. 

The   most   important    missionary    work    has    not 


234  LIVINGSTONE'S    TRUE    MoHK. 

always  the  appearance  of  missionary  work  at  all.  In 
this,  as  in  all  else,  we  must  judge  not  according  to 
outward  appearance,  but  "  judge  righteous  judgment." 
Many  were  found  a  few  years  back  harshly  criticising 
the  course  and  career  of  David  Livingstone,  and  rashly 
accusing  him  of  having  abandoned  the  work  of  the 
missionary  for  that  of  the  geographer  and  explorer, 
or  at  best  of  the  philanthropist.  No  one  would  now 
venture  to  hazard  such  an  opinion.  It  was  the  high 
and  hoi}'  purpose  of  opening  up  a  neiv  zvcrld  to  tJic 
gospel  that  impelled  and  sustained  this  prince  of 
missionaries  throughout  his  thirty  years  of  wear)-  pil- 
grimage and  terrible  sufferings.  He  was  not  less  of 
a  missionary  than  Moffat  or  others,  but  more,  though 
he  laid  aside  the  ordinary  routine  work  of  a  single 
station,  and  betook  himself  instead  to  the  task  of 
introducing  to  the  knowledge  and  sympathies  of  the 
Christian  Church  an  entire  continent,  cursed  under  the 
withering  blight  of  heathenism,  and  crushed  under 
the  cruel  }'oke  of  slavery. 

He  once  wrote  :  "  My  views  of  what  is  missionary 
duty  arc  not  so  contracted-  as  those  of  persons  whose 
ideal  of  a  missionary  is  a  dumpy  sort  of  man  with  a 
Bible  under  his  arm.  I  have  laboured  in  bricks  and 
mortar,  at  a  forge  and  carpenter's  bench,  as  well  as  in 
preaching  and  in  medical  practice.  I  feel  that  I  am 
not  my  own,  and  that  I  am  equally  serving  Christ 
when  shooting  a  buffalo  for  my  men,  or  taking  an 
astronomical  observation."  True !  and  it  was  the 
material  rather  than  the  spiritual  side  of  the  work  on 
the  Congo  which  was  prominent  in   1880.     To  dear 


THE   GATEWAY   TO  A    LOST   WORLD.  235 

Adam  McCall  and  his  colleagues  at  that  time  was 
committed  the  hard  preparatory  task  of  exploration 
and  station-building,  rather  than  the  happier  one  of 
direct  evangelization. 

Afterwards  came  tidings  of  schools  and  converts 
and  Churches,  but  the  time  of  which  we  now  write  was 
one  of  struggle  with  overwhelming  physical  and  moral 
difficulties  in  the  endeavour  to  obtain  a  footing  in  the 
country.  Week  after  week  McCall's  diaries  conveyed 
some  idea  of  what  it  was  to  try  and  penetrate  to  the 
Upper  Congo,  and  the  question  would  sometimes 
arise,  Was  it  worth  while  to  make  such  efforts  in 
order  to  reach  a  certain  point  ?  The  name  of  our 
mission  gave  the  answer.  We  had  christened  it  the 
Livingstone  Inland  Mission.  The  first  word  recalled 
an  example,  the  second  defined  an  aim.  Our  sphere 
was  the  interior,  not  the  cataract  region.  Was  it  not 
worth  while,  ay,  and  well  worth  while,  to  make  a 
great  effort  to  win  the  key  of  a  gloomy  prison  house, 
if  by  so  doing  one  might  throw  open  its  doors  and 
liberate  countless  captives  from  long,  hopeless,  and 
cruel  bondage  ? 

Stanley  Pool  was  the  gateway  to  a  vast  and  unex- 
plored world,  teeming  with  millions  of  our  fellow  crea- 
tures, to  whom  Christ  had  bid  us  carry  the  glad  tidings 
of  forgiveness  and  eternal  life.  It  was  a  lost  zt'oiid, 
emphatically  such  !  The  law  of  God  had  never 
reached  it,  much  less  the  gospel !  It  was  a  world 
showing  the  depth  of  degradation  into  \\hich  the 
human   race  can  sink,  when  left   without  any  other 


2j6 


"  77/1'  KINGDOM  COME." 


Divine  revelation  than  the  lij^dits  of  nature  and  of 
conscience. 

]Uit  it  was  a  world  out  r>f  which  ("iirist  must  liave 
some  trophies,  a  world  which  (lod  lo\ed,  a  world  in 
whicli  the  ^"ospel  must  be  preached  before  the  end 
come.  Did  we  not  well  then  to  strive  to  enter  its  ^atc 
with  the  prayer,  "  Thy  kinc^^dom  come  "  ?  And  thou;^di 
dear  Adam  McCall  was  destined  never  to  set  eyes  on 
the  Upper  Congo,  did  Jie  not  well  to  risk  his  life  in 
the  endeavour  to  take  into  that  dark  world  the  light 
of  life  ? 

But  we  must  not  anticipate.  We  arc  as  yet  only 
in  the  autumn  of  i8So.  Of  the  fifteen  missionaries 
sent  out  so  far,  two  had,  as  we  ha\e  seen,  died,  and 
two  had  been  recalled  as  not  suited  for  the  work.  We 
must  leave  the  remaining  eleven  at  their  four  stations 
on  the  banks  of  the  Congo,  to  retm-n  for  a  moment 
to  the  banks  of  the  Thames,  and  mention  what  was 
meantime  going  on  in  England  in  connexion  with 
the  mission. 


"^^^^^^^^^^m 


CHAPTER    in. 


CHANGE  IN  THE  MANAGEMENT  OF  THE 
,^^  <i-.^^  MISSION 


HE    same    blessed     Spirit    which 
was  working  in  the  hearts  of  the 
devoted    labourers  in   Africa  was 
working  also   in   many   hearts   at 
home,  on  Africa's  behalf.     Every 
foreign  mission  must  needs  have 
a  home  department,  and  this  latter 
must  bear  a  due  proportion  to  the 
former.      Now    the    Congo    Mission 
had  been    rapidly  growing    and    in- 
ci  easing  its  demands   since  its  very 
modest  and  inexpensive  commence- 
^^  mcnt  in    1878,  and  especially  during 

the    year    1S80.       Experience    had 
shown  that  if  the  interior  was  to  be 
reached,  these  demands  could  not   be  ex- 
pected to  decrease,  but  the   reverse.     The 
considerable  sum  expended  on  the  last  ex- 
pedition had  only  carried  it  half  way  to  the 
upper    river.       Reinforcements    and    large 
supplies    would    again    be    needed    in    the 
The  committee  began  to  feel  that  the  small 
constituency  of  friends  interested  in  the  Mission  would 

237 


sprmg. 


238  RESIGNATION  OF  THE  SECRETARY. 

not  be  able  to  bear  the  strain  which  its  proper  i^ro- 
secution  would  entail. 

The  Rev.  A.  Tilly  was  unable  to  devote  more  time 
or  energy  to  its  interests.  He  was  disappointed  that 
there  seemed  no  i)rospect  of  the  self-su[)[)ort  of  which 
he  had  been  sanguine,  as  indeed  were  other  members 
of  the  council.  He  resigned  his  position  as  secre- 
tary, and  as  no  member  of  the  council  was  prepared 
to  undertake  the  post  it  seemed  difficult  to  see  how 
the  rapidly  increasing  necessities  of  the  mission  were 
to  be  provided  for. 

A  considerable  share  of  the  home  work — the  pre- 
paration and  outfitting  of  the  men,  and  especially 
of  the  McCall  expedition — the  raising  of  funds  for  it  ; 
— the  public  meeting  and  literary  departments,  had 
already  been  done  in  connexion  with  our  Missionary 
Institute  at  Harley  House.  But  no  responsibility, 
save  that  wliich  we  shared  with  the  other  members  of 
the  committee,  had  hitherto  rested  on  us.  But  at  a 
meeting  of  the  committee  in  October,  1880,  after  a 
discussion  arising  out  of  Mr.  Tilly's  resignation  of 
the  secretaryship,  the  writer  was  asked  to  fill  the  vacant 
post,  and  become  official  Secretary  to  the  committee. 
For  many  reasons  we  felt  unable  to  accede  to  this 
proposal,  and  various  other  plans  were  consequently 
considered.  None  of  them  seemed  however  likely  to 
succeed  in  sustaining  and  extending  the  work  in 
Africa.  Feeling  that  whatever  happened,  tJiat  must 
not  be  allowed  to  suffer,  we  subsequently  offered,  if 
the  committee  wished,  to  take  over  the  mission,  and 
carry  it  on  as  a  branch  of  our  East  London  Institute, 


PROCEEDINGS  OF   THE   COMMITTEE.  239 

undertaking  the  sole  responsibility  of  its  support  and 
management.  We  were  conscious  that  in  doing  this 
we  were  assuming  very  grave  additional  burdens,  both 
practical  and  financial.  But  Providence  had  made 
the  Divine  will  that  Central  Africa  should  be  evan- 
gelized so  plain,  that  we  dared  not  doubt  that  the 
Lord  would  provide  for  His  own  service  in  that  new 
and  dark  world,  and  supply  the  strength  and  wisdom 
as  well  as  the  money  needed.  We  expressed  the 
hope  that,  should  this  plan  be  adopted,  the  existing 
committee  would  continue  their  connexion  with  the 
Mission,  in  the  modified  relation  of  an  advisory 
Council. 

After  full  discussion  and  careful  consideration  of  the 
question  in  all  its  bearings,  the  committee  expressed 
a  decided  and  unanimous  wish  that  this  course  should 
be  adopted,  and  the  following  entry  was  accordingly 
made  by  the  secretary  in  the  minute  book  : 

The  secretary  having  expressed  his  decision  that  his  resignation 
must  take  effect  from  that  meeting,  the  question  of  a  successor  M'as 
carefully  considered.  Much  conversation  ensued  as  to  the  advisability 
of  engaging  a  paid  secretary  ;  but  it  was  felt  that  if  such  an  officer 
■were  engaged,  it  was  by  no  means  certain  that  he  would  be  able  mate- 
rially to  advance  the  cause  of  the  mission,  inasmuch  as  such  a  secretary 
could  only  reach  the  constituency  of  his  committee,  and  the  L.I.M., 
having  a  very  small  circle  of  friends,  could  not  give  him  such  intro- 
ductions as  would  make  it  worth  while  for  him  to  devote  all  his  time 
to  travelling  on  behalf  of  the  mission. 

Under  the  circumstances,  it  was  the  unanimous  wisli  of  the  com- 
mittee that  Mrs.  Guinness  should  undertake  the  otfice.  This  she 
entirely  declined  doing,  on  the  grounds,  first,  that  her  hands  were 
already  sufficiently  full  ;  secondly,  that  she  never  had  acted,  and  never 
wished  to  act  as  secretary  to  a  comniiUce;  and,  thirdly,  that  she  could 
not  see  her  way,  while  acting  for  the  committee,  to  raise  the  funds 


240  THE    WRITER  liECOMES  SECRETARY. 

necessary  for  the  carrying  on  of  the  mission.  The  matter  however 
was  pressed,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Guinness,  seeing  the  dilTiridty  in 
which  the  committee  were,  stated  that  the  only  ground  on  whicli  liicy 
could  take  tlie  secrctarysliip  of  the  mission,  involving  practically  the 
raising  of  tlu  funds  for  its  support,  would  be  tiiat  it  sh(juld  henceforth 
be  regarded  as  a  bran<;h  of  their  own  work,  and  identified  with  their 
"  East  London  Mission  Institute." 

They  stated  that  if  it  were  t/te  wish  of  the  committee.,  they  were 
willing  to  consent  to  such  an  arrangement,  though  they  did  not  in  the 
least  desire  it,  nor  would  they  for  a  moment  press  it.  They  added, 
that  should  such  an  arrangement  be  carried  out,  tliey  should  still  hope 
to  benefit  by  the  wisdom  and  experience  of  the  existing  committee, 
as  a  council  of  reference  ;  that  is,  that  while  tlie  management  and  sup- 
port of  the  mission  would  be  entirely  in  their  own  hands,  and  while 
they  should  henceforth  spcalc  of  it  as  a  part  of  their  work,  they  would 
summon  the  members  of  the  late  committee  every  three  months,  and 
take  counsel  with  them  on  all  stcfis  of  importance. 

This  was  unanimously  agreed  to  by  the  committee,  and  it  was 
arranged  that  the  books  and  papers  of  the  mission  should  be  handed 
over  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Cjuinness,  wluj  would  henceforth  be  solely 
responsible  for  the  conduct  and  suiiport  of  the  mission. 

A  very  coixlial  vote  of  thank-s  to  the  Rev.  A.  Tilly 
for  his  three  years'  service  as  Secretary  was  also 
entered.  The  Mission  owed  to  him  its  inception  and 
birth,  and  such  was  his  interest  in  it,  that  had  he  been 
able  to  continue  his  management  of  it  he  would  never 
have  resigned  his  post.  But  its  increasing  demands 
made  the  resignation  of  his  pastorate  the  only  alter- 
native course,  and  this  he  could  not  see  to  be  a 
justifiable  step. 

The  Livingstone  Inland  Mission  thus,  in  the  third 
year  of  its  existence,  became  identified  with  our  h^ast 
London  Mission  Institute,^  and  the  writer  thence- 
forward acted  as  its  Secretary. 

'  See  Appendixi 


THE     REV.    ALFRED    TILLY,'  OF    CARDIFF, 

SECRETARY   OF   THE    LIVINGSTONE    INI  AND   MISSION 
KKO.M  1878-1880. 


C.  A. 


241 


16 


242  THE  FOURTH    YEAR   OF  THE  MISSION. 

IC  year  i8Si — the  fourth  of  the 
mission,  and  the  first  of  our  sole 
mana;^fcnient  of  it  —  was  a  very 
eventful  one  in  its  history.  Great 
encourai^ements  were  received,  on 
the  one  hand,  and  profound  dis- 
couragements, on  the  other.  Our 
faith  was  strengthened  and  our  hearts  cheered  by  the 
evidence  that  God  was  graciously  working  with  us, 
or,  rather,  permitting  us  to  work  with  Him,  in  carry- 
ing out  His  purposes  of  mercy  to  Africa  ;  yet  was 
it  also  severely  tested  by  difficulty,  disappointment, 
disaster,  and  death.  W'c  will  take  a  glance,  first  at 
the  home  side  of  the  work,  and  then  at  its  i\frican 
aspect. 

Many  of  the  missionaries  had  urged  the  importance 
of  establishing  a  base  station  for  the  mission  at 
Banana,  the  port  of  debarkation  for  the  Congo  from 
the  ocean  steamers.  They  had  also  urged  the  need 
of  a  boat  of  our  own  on  the  lower  river.  Without 
this  our  chain  of  inland  stations,  already  numbering 
four,  seemed  to  lack  the  link  of  connexion  with  the 
outer  world.  There  is  )ioiv  an  hotel  at  Banana,  but  in 
those  days  there  was  no  such  accommodation  ;  and 
though  the  traders  settled  there  might  be  kind  and 
hospitable,  it  did  not  of  course  do  to  trouble  them 
too  much,  and  was  not  w^ell  to  ha\-e  to  depend  on 
them. 

To  take  over  from  a  steamer  and  land  in  small 
boats  a  consignment  of  goods  is  no  easy  work  under 
a  tropical  sim.     It  seemed  desirable  to  have  a  store 


REINFORCEMENTS  NEEDED.  243 

ready  to  receive  such  consignments,  and  an  agent  to 
see  them  despatched  up  the  river.  Moreover  it  was 
constantly  needful  to  have  a  house  at  which  a  fresh 
party  of  missionaries  could  tarry  while  awaiting  transit 
to  Matadi,  and  where  invalid  missionaries  on  the  way 
home  could  be  nursed  and  cared  for  until  the  arrival  of 
the  homeward-bound  steamer.  And  besides  all  this 
Banana  itself  needed  missionaries.  Not  only  were  the 
natives  there  as  well  as  elsewhere  heathen,  but  the  few 
Europeans  resident  in  the  neighbourhood  were  totally 
destitute  of  religious  help.  We  had  given  due  weight 
to  all  these  considerations,  and  our  council  had 
agreed  with  us  that  it  would  be  well  to  establish  a 
station  at  Banana.  Being  by  the  sea  we  hoped  the 
place  would  prove  healthy,  and  a  medical  man  was 
resident  there  in  case  of  need.  Representatives  of 
many  tribes  from  both  north  and  south  visited 
Banana  for  purposes  of  trade,  and  it  was  hoped  that 
by  gaining  an  influence  over  these  men  the  way  for 
mission  work  in  many  directions  might  be  made  open. 

We  wrote  to  Africa  consequently,  saying  that 
though  at  the  time  we  had  no  means  in  hand  for  the 
purpose,  we  hoped  early  in  the  spring  to  send  out  four 
new  viissionaries,  with  an  iron  house  to  construct  at 
Banana,  a  boat  of  some  sort  for  the  lower  river,  and 
supplies  for  another  twelve  months.  Mr.  McCall  had 
mentioned  that  he  would  have  to  be  at  Banana  in 
April  to  send  hom.e  his  gang  of  Kroo-boys  (for  they 
never  engage  for  more  than  a  year  at  a  time),  and  that 
if  the  fresh   party  were  there   about  that   time,  he 


244  ''HELPERS    TOGETHER:' 

would  sec  to  the  construction  of  the  house,  and  to 
the  safety  of  the  boat,  which  would  require  a 'landing 
staple  and  anchorage  in  the  Creek. 

Much  prayer  was  made  to  God  that  these  various 
needs  might  be  supplied  if  it  were  His  will,  and  we 
sought  to  make  them  known  among  His  people.  The 
sympathy  evinced  was  great.  I-'rom  all  parts  of  this 
and  other  lands  came  donation.s,  varying  from  a  widow's 
mite  and  a  little  Sunday-school  or  Bible-class  collec- 
tion to  gifts  of  hundreds  of  pounds.  One  lad)'  under- 
took to  pa}'  the  passage  and  outfit  of  two  of  the 
missionaries  ;  another  sent  £%oo  in  a  single  gift.  A 
dear  little  schoolgirl  wrote  that  she  had  saved  a  pound 
out  of  her  pocket-money,  and  added,  "  Is  it  too  little 
to  go  to  the  Congo?     I  should  like  it  to  go  to  that ! " 

The  Lord  moved  many  hearts.  Four  hundred 
donations  were  sent  for  the  mission  in  the  first  three 
months  of  the  }'car,  making  together  a  sum  of  over 
i)'3,000.  Our  hearts  were  filled  with  thankfulness,  and 
we  realized  that  all  who  thus  chccrfulK'  aided  with 
their  substance  were  as  much  workers  for  Congo- 
land  as  the  dear  brethren  and  sisters  residing  among 
its  dark  and  degraded  inhabitants.  The  bold  pioneer, 
the  patient  teacher,  the  clever  mechanic,  the  unwearied 
traveller,  were  not  more  needed  in  the  enterprise  than 
the  liberal-hearted  merchant  in  his  office  and  the 
gentle  lady  in  her  drawing-room,  who,  moved  by 
compassion  for  the  poor  Africans,  willingly  offered  to 
the  Lord  for  their  benefit  silver  and  gold.  And  we 
remembered  with  joy  that  He  who  loves  a  cheerful 
giver  would  equally  reward  the  widow  who  sent  her 


A'£IV  HOUSE  FOR  BANANA.  245 

mite,  the  little  ones  who  gave  their  pence,  and  the 
hardworking  men  and  women  who  contributed  the 
fruit  of  their  business  and  toil.  Not  one  grudging  or 
reluctantly  given  pound  was  spent  on  the  mission  ! 
Very  rarely  did  we  seek  help  from  individuals  at  all, 
and  then  only  from  the  wealthier  members  of  the 
council  for  the  larger  needs  of  the  mission. 

The  house  for  Banana  was  given  by  two  generous 
brothers  in  London,  well  known  for  noble  deeds,  and 
who  had  the  honour  of  erecting  the  first  substantial 
dwelling  for  Christian  work  on  the  Congo.  It  con- 
tained two  sitting-rooms  and  a  large  store  for  goods 
on  the  ground  floor,  with  two  double  and  two  single 
bedrooms  upstairs.  It  was  provided  with  a  good 
verandah  all  round  for  coolness.  The  kitchen  offices 
and  schoolroom — which  in  that  hot  climate  it  is 
desirable  to  keep  separate,  for  coolness,  cleanliness, 
and  quiet — were  detached  from  the  main  building. 

It  was  ultimately  decided  that  the  boat,  instead  of 
being  a  sailing  one  merely,  as  originally  intended, 
should  be  provided  with  engines  and  steam  power 
in  case  of  need.  We  had  hesitated  about  this  at  first 
on  the  grounds  of  the  additional  expense  and  the 
need  of  skilled  management.  But  one  of  the  out- 
going missionaries  had  been  a  sailor,  and  was  able 
and  willing  to  be  responsible  for  the  working  of  a 
steamer.  The  current  of  the  Lower  Congo,  even 
in  its  comparatively  calm  lower  waters,  is  so  rapid 
that  roii'ing  against  it  must  always  be  tedious  and 
laborious  work.  The  breeze  from  the  sea  which 
would    carry  up    a   boat   under  sail  is    never  to   be 


246  FKOM  BANANA    TO   M ATA  1)1. 


depended  on,  and  seldom  blows  in  the  earlier  part 
of  the  day.  The  danj^erous  character  of  the  navi- 
gation prevents  sailing  after  sunset,  for  the  collision 
between  the  inflowing  tide  and  the  outrushing  river 
causes  such  a  disturbance  of  the  waters  that  skill  and 
care  arc  requisite  to  avoid  eddies  and  whirlpools. 

Hence,  though  the  distance  between  Banana  and 
Matadi  was  only  a  hundred  miles,  our  friends  had 
often  had  to  spend  five  or  six  days  in  getting  from 
the  one  point  to  the  other.  They  had  frequently 
been  detained  at  Boma  on  the  way,  and  sometimes 
laid  up  there  with  fever.  Under  steam  they  would 
be  able  to  accomplish  this  voyage  with  ease  in  one 
to  two  days,  and  be  quite  independent  of  wind  and 
tide.  The  saving  of  time  thus  effected  on  every 
voyage  was  itself  important,  but  the  avoidance  of 
prolonged  exposure  in  so  dangerous  a  climate  even 
more  so. 

The  launch  w^ould  be  able  to  go  down  month  by 
month,  to  meet  the  mails  and  take  up  cargo.  She 
would  be  available  to  take  sick  men  down  to  the  sea 
at  any  time,  and  might  thus  save  life.  So  a  suitable 
boat  was  secured. 

The  Steam-launch  "Livingstone." 

This  little  vessel  was  beautifully  built  of  mahogany, 
so  that  it  might  not  warp  on  exposure  to  the  sun, 
copper  bottomed  to  preserve  the  wood,  forty  feet  long 
by  seven  broad,  with  high-pressure  cylinder  engines, 
and  small  multitubular  boiler.     She  was  adapted  to 


LAUNCH  OF  THE  ''LIVINGSTONE:' 


247 


sail  well  with  the  lightest  breeze,  and  could  also  be 
propelled  by  oars  in  case  no  fuel  was  forthcoming. 
She  w^as  launched  from  Forrests'  yard,  Limehousc,  on 
the  9th  of  March,  and  prayer  was  offered  from  her 
deck  by  four  of  the  outgoing  missionaries  in  succes- 
sion, to  which  many  spectators  present,  including  all 
the  students  of  the  Institute,  added  heartfelt  amens. 

A  glad  hymn  of  praise  arose  from  a  hundred  thank- 
ful hearts  as  the  little  launch  glided  down  into  the 
waters  of  the  Thames.  It  was  a  joy  to  think  what 
a  comfort  she  would  be  to  the  dear  missionaries  in 
Africa.     She  was  well  fitted  with  awnings  to  protect 


248  THE   ''/.IVIXGSTONE'S"    TRIAL;  TRIF. 

her  passengers  from  the  sun,  and  it  was  calculated 
that  she  could  carry  ten  or  twelve  men  and  four  or 
five  tons  of  cargo  at  a  time.  We  sent  out  with  her 
two  small  boats,  one  twenty-two  feet  long  for  rowing, 
and  a  smaller  one  for  landing  from  the  steam  launch, 
together  with  a  complete  equipment  of  all  needful 
adjuncts. 

Several  prophets  of  ill  omen  foretold  on  the  voyage 
out  that  this  little  craft  would  do  no  good  against  the 
strong  current  of  the  Congo.  It  was  a  great  satis- 
faction to  us  therefore  subsequently  to  receive  from 
Mr.  McCall  at  15anana  the  following  account  of  the 
trial  trip  of  the  Livingstone,  which  we  give  here, 
though  a  little  out  of  place  chronologically,  in  order 
to  complete  the  story  of  the  boat. 

Everybody  lieie,  including  myself,  thought  the  cngbies  of  the  *'  Living- 
stone "  far  too  small  to  drive  the  launch  up  the  rivet:  On  Thursday 
afternoon  we  loaded  her  up  with  a  ton  and  a  half  of  cargo,  boxes  of 
rice,  bales,  and  packages,  together  with  about  three-quarters  of  a  ton 
of  coal.  We  loaded  her  carefully,  so  as  to  balance  her  well  fore  and 
aft,  and  put  the  propellers  well  down  in  the  water.  Everything  was 
prepared  for  a  fair  start  next  morning. 

May  Gth,  iSSl.— We  steamed  out  of  Banana  at  6.15  a.m.,  witli  a 
pilot  at  the  helm  (lent  by  the  French  house),  Angus  and  I  in  the  stern, 
Joe  at  his  post  managing  the  engines,  Joe  (No.  2)  the  black  stoker 
also  at  his  work,  and  the  three  hands  "forr'ad."  We  started  out  in 
good  form  under  seventy  pounds  steam  pressure.  I  had  not  seen 
the  pretty  little  engines  working,  and  was  half  afraid  of  their  power  ; 
but  I  soon  discovered  that  they  could  drive  us  through  the  current 
splendidly.  It  was  a  lovely  morning,  the  water  calm  as  a  lake,  the 
rising  sun  gleaming  brightly  over  the  placid  river.  Our  little  Living- 
stone  flew  along  steady  as  a  rock,  graceful  as  a  swan,  comfortable  as  an 
armchair  ! 

Soon  we  rounded  Boolambemba  Point  (the  commencement  of  the 
Congo    River   proper),    and   entered  upon   our    task  of  steaming  up 


ON  THE   CONGO.  249 


against  the  current ;  but  lo  viy  joy  and  salisfaction  'uv  iveitt  ahead  almost 
as  if  there  -were  no  current  ai^ainst  us  !  We  "  pounded  "  away  (pardon 
the  word)  mile  after  mile,  the  strength  of  the  current  always  increasing, 
the  little  engine  humming  with  the  rapidity  of  its  revolutions,  and 
the  propeller  raising  a  perfect  whirlpool  astern,  making  the  seething 
water  hiss  and  curl  up  under  our  counter  until  it  nearly  reached  the 
gunwales.  We  soon  sighted  Bull  Island,  and,  reaching  it,  crossed  the 
river  (to  avoid  banks,  etc.)  to  the  south  side,  passed  close  by  Kissanga 
(Dutch  and  Portuguese  trading  station),  soon  after  recrossing  the  river 
in  a  long  diagonal,  past  numerous  low  sandy  islands,  steering  right  for 
Ponta  da  Lenha.  .  .  .  We  ranged  up  alongside  the  landing  stage 
of  the  French  house  just  at  11  a.m.,  only  four  hours  and  three-quarters 
from  Banana,  a  distance  of  over  thirty  miles,  about  thirty-six  I  believe. 
At  12.30  we  were  again  under  steam  and  away  for  Boma,  where  we 
arrived  about  5  p.m.  and  made  fast  at  the  pier  of  the  French  house, 
everybody  remarking  what  a  capital  run  we  had  made.  AA.fter  dinner  I 
called  on  'SU.  Greshoffto  request  him  to  let  me  have  a  little  coal.  We 
arranged  for  our  boys  to  come  for  it  in  the  morning  early. 

Saturday,  'jth. — Steam  up  at  6  a.m.  Some  delay  getting  the  coal ; 
finally  started  for  Massuca  and  Nokki  at  7  a.m.,  and  arrived  at 
jMassuca,  after  a  capital  run  of  exactly  four  hours,  a  distance  of  thirty 
miles,  and  strong  current.  I  met  Mr.  Grenfell  here  for  the  first  time, 
and  had  a  chat  with  him.  Left  again  for  Nokki  soon  after  i  p.m., 
running  direct  in  about  one  hour,  thus  making  the  entire  "  run,"  a  dis- 
tance of  105  to  no  miles,  in  a  day  and  a  half,  including  stoppages, 
fourteen  hours  of  actual  steaming.  No  steamer  on  the  river,  Stanley's 
or  otherwise,  has  ever  done  it  in  a  shorter  time. 

I  need  hardly  say  I  was  delighted  and  proud  of  our  bonnie  wee 
boatie  !  We  had  been  taken  at  first  sight,  by  the  white  people  all  the 
way  up,  for  a  man-o'-war's  launch,  principally  on  account  of  our  flag, 
"  the  red  ensign  "  of  dear  old  England,  which  waved  cheerily  from  our 
flagstaff  at  the  stern. 

On  Monday  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Craven  (to  whom  I  had  sent  up  a  mes- 
sage) arrived  at  noon  en  route  to  Massuca,  to  pay  a  visit  to  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Grenfell.  Having  discharged  cargo,  we  took  on  board  some 
things  Craven  had  brought  down  for  me,  and  thirty  sacks  of  peanuts 
(for  the  French  house)  for  ballast,  as  the  propeller  must  be  under  water 
to  travel  properly. 

On  Tuesday  morning  at  6.30  we  steamed  out  of  Nokki,  Mr.  and 
Mrs,  Craven  and  Sigiior  Martini  as  passengers  ;  in  t-i'enty'ci,qht  minutes 


we  were  at  Massuca.  Mr.  Grenfell  came  aloncjside  with  his  boat,  into 
wliich  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Craven  stepped  at  otice,  and  in  two  minutes  wc 
were  off  "  full  steam  ahead  "  for  Uoma.  We  ref,'ularly  (lew  down  -uilh 
the  current,  and  actually  arrived  at  Boma  in  two  hours  from  Massuca, 
i.e.  fifteen  miles  an  hour.     Magnificent ! 

Here  I  had  a  call  or  two  to  make,  and  to  get  some  more  coal,  so 
that  we  did  not  start  again  until  10. lo  a.m.,  when  we  ran  for  IJanana 
direct  without  going  to  Ponta  da  Lenha.  We  had  a  fine  run  down  ; 
and  although  the  last  fifteen  or  twenty  miles  were  against  ivind  ami 
tide  and  a  head  sea,  we  cut  through  splendidly,  tossing  the  spray  far 
and  wide,  and,  with  only  half  pressure,  arrived  at  Banana  at  3  p.m.  ; 
i.e.  ten  viiitittes  under  Jive  hours,  a  distance  of  seventy  miles  !  With  a 
full  head  of  steam  we  could  have  done  it  easily  in  four  hours  and  a  half. 

So  ended  the  trial  trip  of  our  pretty  little  Livin;:;stone,  to  the  com- 
l>lete  satisfaction  of  all  parties,  and  with  hearty  thanksgivings  to  our 
loving  Father,  the  Giver  of  all  good  gifts,  and  the  One  in  whom  is  our 
trust,  our  joy,  and  our  hope  now  and  for  ever. 

In  reply  to  .some  advice  about  being  very  careful 
in  the  navii^ation  and  working  of  the  little  steam 
launch,  he  wrote  subsequently  : 

"  You  may  rest  assured  that  every  care  is  taken  of 
our  dear  little  Livingstone.  We  are  all  too  fond  of 
her,  and  too  proud  of  her,  to  neglect  her,  and  more- 
over we  look  upon  her  as  specially  under  God's  pro- 
tecting care,  because  consecrated  as  we  ourselves  are 
to  His  service.  She  never  leaves  for  a  trip  up  river 
without  being  specially  commended  to  God.  Every- 
thing down  to  the  minutest  detail  is  daily  put  by  us 
into  God's    hands,  to  guide  and  do  with   us   as   He 

thinks  best." 

250 


THE  FIRST  TARTY  OF  ISSl. 


251 


EANS  and  material  help  were 
not  however  all  that  were 
needed  in  order  effectually  to 
reinforce  the  mission.  The 
great  essential  was  vieii.  The 
Lord  alone  can  send  forth  la- 
bourers into  His  harvest ;  but  wc  prayed 
for  them  and  watched  for  them,  and  they 
came,  all  undaunted  by  the  deaths  that 
had  taken  place,  anxious  and  eager  to 
close  up  the  ranks  and  fill  the  posts  of 
those  who  had  fallen.  No  less  than  nine 
fresh  missionaries  went  out  in  three  de- 
tachments this  year  1881. 
The  first  party,  which  sailed  in  March,  consisted  of 
Mr.  Ingham,  once  a  soldier,  who  had  acquired  experi- 
ence in  leading  and  commanding  men  as  a  corporal  in 
the  army  before  he  became  a  student  in  the  Institute, 
and  who  had  also  been  accustomed,  in  philanthropic 
work,  to  the  management  of  the  young,  as  well  as 
to  active  gospel  efforts  among  the  poor.  Mr.  George 
Angus  had  also  been  a  soldier,  but  had,  in  addition, 
received  a  nautical  training.  He  had  already  been 
in  Australia  and  in  Zululand,  where  he  took  part  in 
the  relief  .of  Ekowe,  and  formed  one  of  the  flying 
column  sent  in  pursuit  of  Cetcwayo.  He  was  at  the 
burned  and  desolated  kraal  of  the  Zulu  king,  when 
he  was  brought  in  a  captive  at  last — a  giant  man,  clad 
in  tiger  skin,  and  of  a  kingly  bearing  even  in  his  cap- 
tivity. Mr.  Angus  had  been  converted  to  God  when 
staying  in  Dublin  some  time  previously.     What  he 


252  ./    A/ZSS/OJVAA'y  FAREWELL. 


observed  durincj  this  sojourn  in  Zululand  made  his 
heart  yearn  over  the  heathen,  and  the  gratitude  which 
he  felt  t(j  (jod  for  his  (nvn  preservation,  when  multi- 
tudes fell  around  him  from  the  bullet,  the  assegai, 
and  the  fever,  constrained  him  to  devote  himself  to 
the  spread  of  the  gospel. 

Mr.  Smith  was  a  Scotchman,  from  Lanarkshire, 
and  had  had,  like  Livingstone,  to  struggle  with  many 
difficulties  in  his  early  life,  and  in  the  process  of  self- 
education.  He  was  fully  tiualified  as  a  carpenter  and 
joiner  before  he  became  a  student,  and  knew  some- 
thing besides  of  farming  and  of  the  care  of  cattle. 

Mr.  Waters,  the  fourth  member  of  the  party,  had 
had  no  experience  of  this  kind,  but  was  acquainted 
with  trade,  and  was  a  thoroughly  practical  man,  as 
well  as  an  earnest  preacher  and  successful  home 
mission  worker. 

All  four  were  consequently  men  able,  not  only  to 
evangelize,  but  to  assist  in  civilizing  the  tribes  on  the 
banks  of  the  Congo. 

Sir  Arthur  Blackwood  presided  at  a  crowded  fare- 
well meeting  held  at  the  West  End  of  London,  to 
commend  this  party  to  the  care  and  blessing  of  God. 
Contrasting  this  departure  with  one  of  troops  for 
South  Africa  which  had  just  taken  place,  he  said  : 

"  Our  meeliiig  may  evoke  no  eulhusiasm  throughout  the  United 
Kingdom,  but  high  heaven  watches  our  proceedings  with  intense  in- 
terest. In  sympathising  with  and  helping  this  band  of  ambassadors 
for  Christ,  about  to  start  for  Central  Africa,  we  are  taking  part  in  an 
enterprise  that  commands  the  sympathies  of  the  Lord  Jehovah  Himself. 
England  can  send  her  noblest  and  best  sons  to  fight  in  Southern  Africa. 


"y    IVILL  NEVER  LEAVE   THEE."  253 

The  \\'ar  Office  is  besieged  by  officers  volunteering  their  services,  and 
nnxious  to  fill  the  gaps  where  their  comrades  have  fallen,  to  win  a 
bubble  reputation  at  the  cannon's  mouth ;  what  then  ought  we,  who 
are  sworn  soldiers  of  the  Cross  of  Christ,  to  do  in  view  of  the  unevan- 
gelized  millions  of  Central  Africa  ?  Should  there  not  be  such  a  press- 
ing to  the  front  that,  instead  of  four,  there  should  be  four  thousand 
young  and  devoted  missionaries  starting  for  the  vast  regions  of  Congo- 
land?" 

Lord  Pohvarth  (a  member  of  the  council)  gave  a 
tonic  to  the  faith  of  those  who  were  staying  behind, 
as  well  as  of  those  who  were  going,  by  dwelling  on 
the  fact  that  we  were  together  striving  not  to  do  our 
own  wills,  but  simpl}'  to  carry  out  tJie  purposes  of  God. 
He  had  purposed  that  Africa  should  at  last  be  evan- 
gelized, and  He  has  pledged  the  help  of  His  power 
to  those  who  carry  out  His  purposes.  "All  power 
is  given  unto  Me,"  said  Christ ;  "  go  ye  tliereforc, 
evangelize  all  nations."  To  each  of  the  departing 
missionaries  he  gave,  as  a  last  message,  the  grand  old 
promise,  "  I  will  never  leave  thee  nor  forsake  thee." 

The  Rev.  C.  Wilson,  who  had  then  recently  re- 
turned from  Uganda,  was  prevented  from  attending 
this  meeting  as  he  had  intended  ;  but  Mr.  Felkin, 
who  had  just  come  back  from  escorting  the  Waganda 
chiefs  sent  by  King  Mtesa  as  a  deputation  to  the 
queen,  on  their  return  to  Zanzibar,  gave  an  address, 
as  also  our  friend  and  former  student.  Captain  Hore, 
just  returned  from  Ujiji,  Lake  Tanganyika. 

The  veterans  from  the  field  encouraged  the  recruits 
for  the  field  with  no  faltering  tone,  and  the  sympathy 
of  the  large  gathering  was  a  tonic. 


A  GROUP  or   CENTRAL  AFRICAN   WIVES   AND   MOTHERS. 


2  54 


WEDDING  AND  PARTING.  255 


Thursda}',  the  17th  of  March,  was  the  day  on 
which  the  missionaries  were  to  start  on  their  long 
journc}'.  We  had  arranged  to  go  with  them  to 
Liverpool,  but  one  final  preparation  had  to  be  accom- 
plished before  they  left  London,  and  that  was — a 
wedding !  Mr.  Smith  was  to  be  married,  parting 
immediately  afterwards  from  his  newly  wedded  wife  ! 

The  reason  for  this  strange  and  somewhat  sad 
course  was,  that  it  w^ould  have  been  impossible  for 
Mrs.  Smith  to  accompany  her  husband  at  that  time, 
though  it  was  hoped  she  would  be  able  to  join  him 
in  a  year  or  so.  But  they  could  not  postpone  the 
marriage  for  that  hoped  for  re-union. 

There  was  no  opportunity  of  contracting  a  mar- 
riage on  the  Congo  in  1 881,  as  no  consul  was  resident 
there,  and  for  a  missionary  to  return  in  order  to  be 
married  involved  loss  of  time  and  money.  Both 
parties  and  their  friends  wished  to  adopt  this  plan. 
So  Mr.  Guinness  married  them  early  one  morning,  and 
after  a  season  of  social  fellowship  at  breakfast,  and  of 
prayer  and  praise  afterwards,  bride  and  bridegroom 
bade  each  other  farewell  till  they  should  meet  a  year 
later  on  the  banks  of  the  Congo.  We  had  reminded 
the  bride  of  the  possibility  that  she  might  be  left  a 
widow.  "  I  shall  feel  like  one  in  any  case,  if  he  be 
taken,"  she  replied  ;  "  and  I  would  rather  bear  his 
name  and  he  one  than  not."  She  employed  the 
interval  in  acquiring  some  medical  and  nursing  skill. 

Large  and  sympathetic  meetings  were  held  at 
Leicester — where  the  mother  of  our  friend  Mr. 
McCall    received    with    the    utmost    hospitality    the 


!S6  GOD  SPEED! 


whole  party — and  at  Liverpool,  where  on  the  i8th 
of  March  a  ^roiij)  of  Christian  fricntls,  including  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Reginald  Radcliffc,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Stephen 
Menzies,  Mr.  Irvine,  and  many  others  were  gathered 
to  bid  the  missionaries  God  speed  !  Not  a  few 
accompanied  them  even  to  the  ship,  which  was  l)'ing 
up  the  river,  remaining  on  board  with  them  for  more 
than  an  hour.  After  seeing  to  the  disposal  of  the 
luggage,  and  inspecting  the  Livingstone  steam  launch 
(which  had  been  safely  conveyed  on  board  the  day 
before),  we  gathered  together  for  one  last  prayer- 
meeting  in  the  cheerful  little  cabin  on  deck,  which 
had  been  allotted  to  our  four  brethren,  and  had  a 
blessed  season  of  united  and  earnest  supplication. 
There  was  so  much  to  be  gratefully  acknowledged 
"  with  thanksgiving,"  so  much  to  be  asked  of  God. 
From  how  many  dangers  they  needed  to  be  shielded 
by  His  almighty  hand  !  How  they  would  need  His 
all-wise  guidance  !  How  feeble  the  workers,  how 
great  the  task,  but  how  certain  the  promise !  \\' c 
were  comforted  and  encouraged  by  mutual  faith,  and 
could  even  praise  God,  in  anticipation  of  success,  in 
spite  of  every  difficulty.  As  the  tender  left  the  ship 
some  friends  started  the  cheery  strains  of  "  Stand  up, 
stand  up  for  Jesus,"  and  the  group  of  missionaries  on 
the  deck  of  the  Corisco  took  up  the  animating  song, 
confessing  Christ  thus  before  their  fellow  passengers 
from  the  outset. 

By  the  following  steamer,  a  month  later,  two  more 
members  of  the  mission,  Messrs.  Stephen  White 
and  Jesse  Blunt,  sailed.     The  former — from  the  land 


DEATH  OF  HUGH  McKERGOW.  257 


of  Livn'nc^stonc,  lilv'c  so  many  of  our  best  missionaries 
— had  acquired  some  experience  and  practice  in 
medical  work,  and  the  latter  was  a  builder  as  well  as 
a  preacher. 

They  were  ready,  and  intending  to  start  next  day, 
when  on  April  the  14th  letters  reached  us  bringing 
the  tidings  of  a  death  to  which  we  will  allude  more 
fully  presently — that  of  Mr.  Hugh  McKergow,  one  of 
Mr.  McCall's  party.  Being  greatly  shocked  by  the 
intelligence  ourselves,  and  by  the  fresh  illustration  it 
afforded  of  the  fatal  nature  of  the  climate,  we  felt  for 
a  time  as  if  we  could  not  let  these  dear  brethren  go 
forward  on  their  journey  to  this  fever-stricken  land  ! 
We  could  not  have  blamed  them  had  they  wished  to 
delay  their  departure  till  the  more  healthful  interior 
country  was  reached.  But  no  such  thought  seemed 
to  cross  their  minds.  Like  ourselves  and  all  the 
students  in  the  Institute,  they  were  much  affected 
and  deeply  solemnized  by  this  fresh  bereavement  ; 
their  courage  however  did  not  fail,  but  seemed  on  the 
contrary  to  rise  with  danger.  They  realized  that 
they  were  needed  even  more  than  previously,  and 
were  only  the  more  anxious  to  press  forward. 

We  could  not  but  thank  God  to  see  that  it  is  still 
as  it  was  in  the  early  days  of  West  African  missions, 
when  as  fast  as  the  labourers  fell  in  "  the  white 
man's  grave,"  Sierra  Leone,  volunteers  rushed  to  the 
front  to  fill  up  the  vacant  places.  The  truth  that 
Christ  laid  doivn  His  life  for  us,  deeply  engraven  on 
the  soul,  has  a  power  of  conforming  that  soul  to  the 
image  of  Christ.     The  willingness  of  His  disciples  to 

C.  A.  i; 


258 


I' UK TIJER  KEINJ-ORCEMENTS. 


lay  down  their  lives  in  His  service,  and  for  His  sake, 
is  an  unanswerable  proof  that  His  Spirit  duclls  in 
His  iiievibcrs. 

Learning  by  later  mails  that  it  had  become  needful 
to  send  home  some  of  the  staff  to  recruit  health,  and 
that  without  still  further  additions  the  stations  would 
be  undermanned,  three  more  brethren  sailed  b}'  the 
July  steamer,  Messrs.  Frcderickson,  Billinf^ton,  and 
Kngvall.  The  first  was  a  Dane  by  birth,  a  godly  and 
experienced  man  ;  the  second  an  engineer,  who  had 
consecrated  his  life  to  gospel  work,  and  had  been 
trained  for  the  ministry  in  Mr.  Spurgeon's  college;  and 
the  third  was  a  young  Swede,  who  had  been  some 
years  with  us  in  the  Institute.  Thus  nine  new  men 
were  sent  out  in  the  course  of  the  year,  beside  a 
young  Christian  sailor  of  Southampton  named  Joe 
Habens,  to  work  the  Livingstone.  Yet  such  were  at 
this  period  the  difficult  conditions  of  this  mission, 
that  these  large  reinforcements  only  left  the  staff  in 
Africa  at  the  end  of  the  year  just  where  it  was  at 
the  beginning,  nine  ha\-ing  from  one  cause  or  other 
been  lost  to  it  during  the  twelve  months  !  But  we 
will  not  anticipate  the  story  of  what  was  going  on  in 
Africa,  but  turn  rather  to  another  phase  of  the  home 
work  of  this  period. 


A    USEFUL  FURLOUGH.  259 


The  Conco  Languages. 

In  the  summer  of  this  year  1881  Mr.  Henry  Craven, 
the  first  missionary  on  the  Congo,  came  home  on 
furlough,  after  three  and  a  half  years  spent  in  Africa. 
He  was  accompanied  by  his  wife  and  by  three  native 
children,  two  lads  and  a  little  girl.  He  had  passed 
through  man}'  dangerous  illnesses,  as  had  also  Mrs, 
Craven,  and  they  both  greatly  needed  the  rest  and 
change.  Years  of  ver}'  hard  work  and  poor  living,  of 
serious  anxieties  and  responsibilities  as  well  as  of  a 
tropical  climate  had  considerably  altered  them  both, 
and  at  first  they  were  liable  to  attacks  of  fever  and 
ague,  especially  on  a  chilly  day  or  after  overfatigue. 
But  the  voyage  had  done  them  both  good,  and  after 
a  brief  sojourn  at  home  they  recovered  former  vigour. 

Mr.  Craven's  furlough  was  even  more  useful  to  the 
mission  than  his  continued  tarriance  in  Africa  would 
have  been  at  the  time.  His  knowledge  of  the  lan- 
guage was  considerable,  but  he  had  had  no  time  to 
attempt  to  reduce  it  to  writing,  or  to  prepare  any 
translations  or  any  reading  books  for  the  children  in 
the  schools. 

It  is  no  easy  matter  for  missionaries  in  such  a 
country  as  Congo,  with  no  teachers,  no  books,  no  inter- 
preter, no  educated  natives  to  help  them,  to  pick  up  a 
language  at  all.  It  is  a  work  needing  much  patience, 
to  accumulate  gradually  the  words  to  form  a  vocabu- 
lary or  dictionary,  and  then  so  to  study  and  ponder 
over  those  words,  and  the  mode  in  which  they  are 
used,  as  to  perceive  the  grammatical  construction  of 


26o  THE   liA.X'TU  LANGUAGES. 

the  strancjc  tonf:;uc,  cjrasp  its  rules,  and  throw  it  into 
systematic  order  and  jiermancnt  form,  lux-n  in  a 
temperate  climate,  in  ordinary  health,  and  with  abun- 
dant leisure,  it  would  be  no  easy  work.  What  must 
it  be  in  a  malarious  rei^ion,  under  a  tropical  sun,  with 
perpetually  recurring  fevers,  with  incessant  interrup- 
tions to  palaver  with  extortionate  natives  for  the  pur- 
chase of  daily  bread,  or  to  look  after  native  children 
or  to  attend  to  the  details  of  daily  duty  !  Difficult 
literary  work  can  hardly  be  expected  under  such 
circumstances.  This  visit  was  the  first  opportuiiit\- 
which  had  arisen  of  givinc^  close  and  undisturbed 
attention  to  the  linguistic  requirements  of  the  mis- 
sion. Mr.  Craven,  as  soon  as  he  was  well  enough,  set 
to  work  to  prepare  a  small  dictionary  ;  and  when 
the  lads  could  speak  English  fairly  well,  Mr.  Guinness 
made  use  of  them  to  assist  him  in  studying  out  the 
grammar  of  the  Fiote  language.  It  turned  out  to  be 
no  poor,  half-barbarous  dialect,  as  might  have  been 
expected,  but  one  rich  in  words,  and  richer  still  in 
verbal  inflexions,  a  branch  of  one  of  the  most  exten- 
sive and  interesting  group  of  languages  known,  the 
widespread  Bantu  famil}'. 

The  Bantu  languages  extend  over  the  whole  of 
south  Central  Africa,  from  six  degrees  north  of  the 
equator  to  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope,  and  from  the 
Indian  Ocean  to  the  Atlantic.  To  this  family  belong 
the  Zulu  and  Kaffir  tongues  ;  the  Swaheli  of  the 
east  coast,  the  Chin}'anga  and  Kiniassa  of  the  high- 
lands of  the   Shire  and  the  shores  of  Lake  Xyassa  ; 


ALLITERATIVE   CONCORD.  261 


the  Bcchuana  and  Basuto  ;  the  Damara,  Benguella,  and 
Angola  ;  all  the  Congo  languages,  and  many  others. 

All  these,  though  spoken  over  such  enormous  areas 
and  by  widely  different  nations,  have  not  only  mul- 
titudes of  words  and  roots  identical  or  similar,  but 
their  entire  grammatical  construction  is  similar,  their 
idioms  are  often  identical,  and  one  striking  and  dis- 
tinctive peculiarity  is  common  to  them  all.  This 
family  feature  of  the  Bantu  languages  is  their  alli- 
terative concord,  or  the  agreement  of  all  the  inflected 
words  in  a  sentence  with  the  governing  nouns,  as  re- 
gards their  initial  letter  or  syllable.  Thus  the  same 
words  change  their  form,  from  sentence  to  sentence, 
according  to  the  commencing  syllable  or  letter  of  the 
governing  nouns  in  the  sentence,  a  most  curious  and 
elsewhere  unknown  form  of  grammatical  concord. 

In  studying  Kikongo  therefore  valuable  and  im- 
portant aid  A\as  derived  from  the  labours  of  mis- 
sionaries in  other  cognate  languages,  especially  from 
those  of  Moffat  in  the  Sechuana,  Davis  in  the  Kaffir, 
Bishop  Steere  in  the  Kishwaheli,  and  others.  After 
many  months  of  careful,  persevering  study  and  work 
with  the  lads,  Mr.  Guinness  succeeded  in  preparing  a 
small  elementary  grammar,  which  was  of  the  greatest 
service  to  new  missionaries,  until  they  could  them- 
selves with  fuller  knowledge  produce  a  better  one.  He 
also  published  a  very  simple  compendium  of  Mosaic  and 
gospel  story  with  interlinear  translation,  for  the  use  of 
beginners,  and  as  a  reading  book  for  the  schools. 

It  was  found  that  the  Roman  alphabet  would  serve 
perfectly  to  express  the  sounds  of  the  language,  and 


262  GRAMMAR   OF  THE  Klh'ONGO. 


though  it  seemed  stran<^c  for  one  who  had  never  been 
in  Africa  to  venture  on  the  task  of  reducing  to  a 
written  form  one  of  its  tongues,  j-et  the  attempt  was 
successful.  Mr.  H.  II.  Johnson, — who  after  his  visit 
to  the  Congo  wrote  in  the  Graphic,  and  afterwards 
l)ublished  a  voknue, — in  acknowledging  a  copy  of  Mr. 
(juinness'  grammar,  referred  to  "the  sim[)licity  and 
perspicacity  which  pervade  it,"  and  added  :  "  I  have 
written  to  recommend  it  heartily  at  lirussels,  in  the 
hope  that  they  may  be  induced  to  provide  a  copy 
for  each  eviploye  on  the  Congo.  It  is,  I  need  not  tell 
you,  the  present  standard  of  the  Congo  tongue." 

The  following  specimen  of  this  language  may  have 
a  double  interest.  When  the  lad  who  had  so  ma- 
terially helped  in  the  task  was  still  in  England,  Mr. 
Guinness,  anxious  to  gauge  his  spiritual  state,  said 
to  him  on  one  occasion,  "  Robert,  }'ou  pray  to  God 
every  day,  do  you  not  ?  "  "  Yes,  sir."  "  What  do 
you  say  to  Him  when  you  pra}' ? "  "Oh,  many 
things."  "  Tell  me  some  of  them.  What  do  you  say? 
Tell  me  in  )'our  own  language."  Softly  and  slowly 
the  boy  pronounced  the  following  words,  which  were 
taken  down  at  the  time.  A  word  for  word  trans- 
lation is  added  between  the  lines. 

Q  Contfo  ?Lati*5  draper. 

O  Nzambi  Inge  Setu  ;  kutu  kcbanga  ;  Inge  kutu- 

O  God  Thou  (art)  our  Father  Thou  us  art  V:ee]iiiig  ;  Thou  (an) 

vananga  edia  yayonso  lumbu.     O  Muan'  aku  wafua 

giving  us         fooil  every  day.  Son  (cliild)     Thy  died 

konta   zetu.      O    katala    zazibi   zetu.     Wuu    talanga 

for  us.  Take  away         sins  our.       Thou  us  (art)  beholdnig 


A    CONGO  LAD'S  PRAYER.  263 


yayonso   lumbu.      Katwa    fete   vanga   wawubi.      O 

"-•very  day.  Do  not  lei        us  do  evil.  <> 

kala    yetii    kasi    kuna    tukwenda.     O    kalanga    omu 

be  with        us  wherever  we  go.  O  be  (continually)  in 

tudimi    tuetu.      Kwadi  kutu  bika   ko   tuavovanga  e 

tongues  (speech)  our.  Do  not  let  us      speak  (speak - 

makutu.     O  Tata,  katala  ilckwa   yayonsono   yayibi. 

ing)  lies.  O  Father,       take  away      things  all  evil. 

Utuzesa    IMpevi    aku    okun    chima    mietu.       Katala 

Fill  Thou  us  (with)  Spirit  Thy  hearts  our.  Take  away 

Ndoki.      Katala    banza    yayibi.      Inge    kaka    Setu, 

Satan.  Take  away      thoughts  evil.  Thou  alone  (art)  our  Father, 

utuvanang'    edia   yayonso    lumbu,    kasi    ilekwa    kina 

Thou  giving  us  food  every  day  as  (whatever)  things 

tutomba,    Inge    wutuveni.      O    Tata,    Inge    wabiza 

we  find  Thou  givest  us.  O  Father,  Thou  (art)  good 

kwandi  beni.     Inge  tondali  nsi  yayi  beni.     O  Jisus, 

indeed  very.  Thou  lovest      earth       this         much.         O        Jesus, 

wututalanga     yayonso     lumbu,     katwa     fete    vanga 

looking  on  us  every  day,  do  not  let  us  do 

wawubi.    O  Tata,  vangisi  missionaries  zendanga  kuna 

evil.  O      Father,        make  missionaries  go  (going)  to 

Kongo    benda   longanga   ye    wantu    ana    twizi    kala 

Congo  going  teaching  people  to  come  [and)  live 

yaku  oku  zulu. 

with  Thee  in   heaven. 

O    Tata,   zesa    Mpevi    aku    kuna   nchima    mi-a-u, 

O       Father,    fill  (with]       Spirit  Thy  in  hearts  their 

ubavanganga  nchima  mi-a-u-  mia  sang'  e  vwadi  kasi 

making  them  hearts  their  believe  as 

wuna    belongwanga.       O    Jisus,    Inge    wafita    kwiza 

they  are  taught.  O        Jesus,  Thou  shalt  come 

diaka  kuza  landa  yetu  ku  zulu. 

again      Thou  to     bring  us  to    heaven. 

O  Jisus,  utuvana  Mpevi  aku  kwai  )'etu  utuvanga 

O      Jesus,  give  us  Spirit        Thy  to  u.s  making  us 

ntouzi  zabiza  beni,  ibosi  e  Mindeli  batuvutidi  diaka 

boys  good  very,  then  the      white  men      will  return  us  again 

kuna  Kongo  tune  longi  a  ni-etu.     O  Jisus,  kala  kwai 

to  Congo  us  to  teach        our  kindred.         O      Jesus,         be  w;tli 

yetu  yayonso  lumbu. 

us  every  day. 


264         ''FILL  EARTH  THIS    WITH  SPIRIT  THY." 


O  JisLis,   Nzatnbi,   In^cyc  wuna   kwaku   vava,  una 

O        Ji^Mi"',  ("Uil,  '1  liou  art  (even) 'I'liou  licru         iioiv 

kutu  tahi  kw'ctu.     O  Jisus,  keba  zimissionarics  zina 

Tliou  US  ^^.•<-•^t         'J  lion.  O       Jc-sus,         keep  iiiib-tioiiaries  iIionc 

kuiia    Koiig^o  bana  loiif^a   Fiotc      wa-u  ;  uba   sadisa 

ill  Cunj^o  tlicy  leach  i'yut  (people)  there  ;       them  Thou  help 

bazai-a  bciii    c      P'iotc      kiabiza,    batoma    lon^aii'^a 

to  know         well      the   Kyot  (lonyue)    good  (or  well)     them  with  care  instruetinj' 

a     Fiote.      O  uba      sadisa      bawan^a     kasi     omana 

Fyot  (people).  O     help      tlieni  to  hear        (undcr.-.tancl)  as  they 

bclony^uaiif^a  kwa  Mindcli.     Vanya  c    Mindcli    mia- 

are  beint;  taught  by         white  men.  Make         the       white  men  (to  be) 

mingi,  bafidisanga  c  vanza  yayingi,  ya  sumbwanga  e 

many,  sending  moneys  much  to      (use  in)  buying 

zimbongo,    zafidiswanga    kuna    Kongo    zalongila    c 

cloth,  sending  to  Congo  (persons)  to  teach      the 

wantu.      Yana   kabawilu    mpobi    a    Jisus.      O  Tata, 

people.  They  do  not  hear  (know)  the  command  (or  teachings)  of  Jesus.  O     I-'ather, 

keba  nfumu,   vanga    nchim'   andi    esemcni.      Kwadi 

keep  the  kin;.,',  make  heart  hi^  clean.  Do  not 

bika    ko    kavondisanga    c    wantu.      Keba    zintouzi 

let  him  kill  (be  killing)  the  people.  Keep  boys 

zazonsono    zina  kuna  Kongo.     Ubavanga   bazona  e 

all  those  in  Congo.  Make  them  love         the 

zimissionarics.       Zesa    nsi     yaj-i    kwa    Mpevi     aku. 

missionaries.  Kill  earth         tliis  with  Spirit  Thy. 

Keba  abana  kwcndanga   muna  dikumbi ;    keba  abe 

Keep  those  going  in  the  ship  (steamer)  ;  keep        those 

kwcndang'  ombazi.     Keba  yetu  tuna  vava. 

going  to-morrow    (to  Congo).  Keep  us     we  who  (are)  here. 

O    Tata,   keba   bana   kuna    Kilifi  ;  ya   bana  kuna 

O       Father,        keep  those  at  Cliff,  and       those  at 

Lesta  ;  ubavanga  nchima  mi-a-u  semcni.     Utu  sadisa 

Leicester;     make  (making)         hearts  their  clean.  Help         us 

tuazaiya  beni   nkanda,   ibosi  tuvutukidi    diaka   kuna 

t(j  know  well  bo<jk,  then  we  go  back  again  to 

Kongo.     Kwadi  bika  ko  tua  vondananga.     Inge  kutu 

Congo.  Do  not  let  us  be  killing  one  another.  Thou         us 

kcbanga  yayonso  lumbu.     Inge  kutu  vananga  kioso 

art  keeping  every  day.  'I'hou  us  art  giving  any 

kilekwa  kina  tukulomba.     Keba  bana  kuna  Kongo. 

thing  we  ask  Thee.  Keep  those  in         Congo. 


''Tim  FATHER  SEEKETH  SUCH."  265 

Ubavanira  cvwacli,  kasi  mana  bilongwa  kwa  Mindeli. 

Make  them  believe  as  they  are  taught         by  (the)   white  men. 

O    Nzambi  Inge    Setu  ancni.     O    Mwan'    aku  Jisus, 

O  God  Thou  (art)  our  Father  great.        O         Son  (child)  Thy        Jesu.-. 

tondeli    yetu    beni.       Kakwiza    va'nsi,    kakwiza    fwa, 

loves  us  much.  He  came  on  earth,  He  came  to  die, 

konta   zazibi    zetu.      O  vanga  yetu  tuantonda  beni. 

for  sins  our.  O         make  us  to  love  Him        much. 

E  mambu  maku  ana  me  lungila  nsi  yayonsono,  Jisus 

The      words  'J'hy        when       extended  (in)  earth  all,  Jesus, 

ana  vutukidi   diaka   kusa  landi   yetu  aonsono  tukala 

when  Thou  returnest  again  (do)  Thou         bring  us  all  to  be 

y'aku,  ko  ku'nsi  aku  yabiza,  ayonso  lumbu  yimbilanga, 

with  Thee        in  land  Thy     beautiful,         every  day  singing 

kiesi  ya  kiesi,  kweli  mvu  kuvutukidi  mvu  !     AmeX. 

happy,         happy,  for     ever  and  ever  !  (year  begetting  year).  Amen. 

W'e  were  surprised  and  not  a  little  moved  by  the 
desires  expressed  in  the  prayer  here  faithfully  tran- 
scribed ;  it  seemed  a  blessed  assurance  of  the  coming 
day  when  Ethiopia  .shall  stretch  out  her  hands  unto 
God  !  W'orldl}-,  unconverted  men  may  sneer  at  the 
mission  children  in  Africa,  but  God,  who  sees  the 
heart,  looks  on  such  lads  as  this  very  differently. 
"  The  Father  seekcth  such  to  worship  Him."  These 
desires  were  sincere,  the  lad's  life  proved  it.  He  is 
a  useful,  consistent  Christian  man  now,  preaching 
Christ  to  his  heathen  fellow  countr}-mcn.  There  arc 
not  a  few  such. 

When  Professor  Drummond  was  in  Africa,  he  was 
attended  on  some  of  his  journeyings  by  a  native  Chris- 
tian named  Moolu,  a  convert  of  the  Scotch  mission 
on  Lake  Xyassa.  His  testimony  to  this  lad  is  worth 
noting,  and  equally  a  reply  to  the  sneers  of  the  scoffer. 
He  say.s,  in  his  diary  of  Sunday,  Oct.  28th  : 


266  PKOFESSOK  DRUMMVNI)\%   " MOOI.U." 


"  In  the  evening  we  held  the  usual  service,  a  piece  of 

very  prim  ill  ve  Christianity.  Moolu,  who  had  learned 
much  from  Dr.  Laws,  undertook  the  sermon,  and 
discoursed  with  great  eloquence  on  the  Tower  of 
Babel.  The  preceding  Sunday  he  had  waxed  equally 
warm  over  the  rich  man  and  Lazarus  ;  and  his  de- 
.scription  of  the  rich  man  in  terms  of  native  ideas  of 
wealth,  '  plenty  of  calico  and  plenty  of  beads,'  was  a 
thing  to  remember. 

"■  Mission  blacks  in  Natal  and  at  the  Cape  are  a 
byword  among  the  unsympathetic,  but  I  nqver  saw 
Moolu  do  an  inconsistent  thing.  lie  could  neither 
read  nor  write,  he  knew  only  some  dozen  words  of 
English.  Until  seven  years  ago  he  had  never  seen 
a  white  man  ;  but  I  could  trust  him  with  everything 
I  had.  He  was  not  '  pious '  ;  he  was  neither  bright 
nor  clever  ;  he  was  a  commonplace  black  :  but  he  did 
his  duty,  and  never  told  a  lie.  The  first  night  of  our 
camp,  after  all  had  gone  to  rest,  I  remember  being 
roused  by  a  low  talking.  I  looked  out  of  my  tent  ; 
a  flood  of  moonlight  lit  up  the  forest,  and  there, 
kneeling  upon  the  ground,  was  a  little  group  of 
natives,  and  Moolu  in  the  centre  conducting  evening 
prayers.  Every  night  afterwards  this  service  was 
repeated  ;  no  matter  how  long  the  march,  nor  how 
tired  the  men.  I  make  no  comment.  But  this  I  will 
say,  Moolu's  life  gave  him  the  right  to  do  it. 

"  Mission  reports  are  often  said  to  be  valueless  ; 
they  are  less  so  than  anti-mission  reports.  I  believe 
in  missions  for  one  thing,  because  I  believe  in 
Moolu." 


HENRY    REED,    Esq 


TASMANIA. 


CHAPTER    IV. 
A    DARK  YEAR  IN"  THE  DARK  CONTINENT. 

In  the  summer  of  this  year  we  received  an  ea- 
couraging  token  that  the  providence  of  God  was 
furthering  our  efforts  for  Africa  in  the  shape  of  the 
promise  of  a  steamer  for  the  upper  river.  So  great 
were  the  present  difficulties  of  the  Cataract  Gorge,  that 
we  had  hardly  given  much  thought  as  yet  to  those 
which  would  confront  us  so  soon  as  we  should  have 
a  station  at  Stanley  Pool.  But  as  the  great  inland 
plateau,  the  elevated  and  healthy  central  tableland, 
was  the  chosen  sphere  of  the  mission,  it  was  evident 
that  a  steamer  on  the  upper  waters  would  be  a  prime 
necessity  if  we  were  to  reach  the  heart  of  Africa  by 
the  new  water-way. 

This  steamer  would  require  to  be  a  much  larger  one 
than  the  little  Livingstone,  and  moreover  she  could 
not  go  out  whole,  and  be  at  once  launched  on  the 
Congo,  as  our  first  boat  had  been.  She  would  have 
to  go  in  sections,  and  make  an  overland  journey  of 
two  hundred  miles  of  rough,  mountainous  road  on 
men's  heads,  and  then  be  put  together  at  Stanley  Pool. 

a  difficult  and  expensive  operation.     The  sister  mis- 

267 


268  STEAMER  FOR  THE   UPPER  RIVER. 

sion  was  pn^vidctl  with  such  a  steamer,  but  then  Mr. 
Arthinj^ton  had  ^nven  the  IIM.S.  £'^fyoo  fur  its  con- 
struction, maintenance,  and  transport.  How  could  ive 
ever  hope  to  raise  funds  for  so  costly  an  undertaking? 
We  knew  not,  but  felt  that  if  it  were  the  will  of  God, 
He  could  send  the  funds  for  the  steamer,  and  the 
means  to  transport  it  \.o  its  destination.  In  the  mean- 
time we  followed  as  He  led  in  the  needful  preliminary 
steps.  There  was  no  present  need  of  a  vessel,  only  a 
prospective  one. 

One  morning,  shortly  after  Mr.  Craven's  return, 
there  reached  us,  from  the  Antipodes,  a  promise  of  the 
gift  of  J  It  St  sucJl  a  steamer  as  should  be  needed  for  the 
Upper  Congo. 

Our  late  valued  and  beloved  friend,  Mr.  Henry 
Reed,  of  Tasmania,  took  a  deep  interest  in  Africa  and 
in  this  mission.  He  mentioned  it  on  his  death-bed 
to  his  dear  wife  as  one  of  the  things  he  left  to  her 
care.  And  right  nobly  she  responded,  and  proved 
that  her  sympathy  with  the  mission  was  not  less  than 
his  own.  Mrs.  Reed  wrote  from  Tasmania,  saying 
she  would  provide  for  the  needed  steamer  ;  and  we 
wished  it  to  be  called,  in  memory  of  her  late  dear 
husband,  the  Henry  Reed. 

Thus  a  very  important  need  of  the  mission  was 
supplied  before  it  was  actually  felt,  and  a  strong  and 
pleasant  stimulus  given  to  every  worker  connected 
with  it.  It  was  a  real  pleasure  to  have  associated  with 
the  Congo  enterprise  the  name  of  a  departed  friend 
whose  own  life  had  been  in  some  senses  a  successful 
missionary  one,    and  whose  .sympathies  with  gospel 


THE  , ' '  IIENR  )  ■  REED. "  269 


efforts  both  at  home  and  abroad  had  been  strong  and 

practical,  and  whose  death  liad  been  that  of  a  true 
saint.  We  were  sure  he  would  have  greatly  rejoiced 
in  the  mission,  had  he  lived  ;  and  we  were  glad  that 
on  African  waters  his  name  should  be  memorialized 
along  with  those  of  the  late  beloved  Henry  Venn  and 
Henry  Wright,  both  of  which  arc  borne  by  mission 
steamers  of  the  C.M.S.  We  shall  have  more  to  say 
of  this  little  vessel  later  on,  the  promise  of  it  onh- 
belongs  to  this  year.  Nor  was  this  all.  The  carr}-- 
ing  up  of  the  steamer  to  Stanley  Pool  would  cost  as 
much  as  the  steamer  itself;  and  He  who  pro\-idcd 
the  steamer  provided  for  this  outlay  also.  He 
aroused  to  deep  sympathy  with  the  mission  Mr. 
William  Blackstone,  of  Chicago,  a  friend  at  that  time 
personally  unknown  to  us,  who  exerted  himself  to 
raise  help  for  this  purpose  against  the  time  when  it 
would  be  wanted. 

He  took  the  trouble  to  diffuse  information  about 
the  work  in  America,  which  at  that  time  had  not 
commenced  any  mission  in  Central  Africa.  He 
printed  on  a  whole  page  of  many  newspapers  a  fine 
map  of  Africa  which  he  had  had  prepared,  and  ap- 
pended information  about  the  several  Central  African 
mission;?,  especially  our  own.  He  thus  raised  many 
hundreds  of  pounds  to  help  carry  up  the  steamer. 

Such  proofs  of  the  power  of  God  to  move  the  hearts 
even  of  strangers  at  great  distances  to  help  cheered 
us  in  many  a  moment  of  discouragement  and  failing 
faith,  of  which  the  following  twelve  months  were  to 
bring  us  so  many. 


270  FEVER  AND  FLOOD. 


Wc  must  now  return  to  Africa,  and  note  the  in- 
cidcnts  of  this  \'car,  iSSi,  at  the  various  stations  of 
the  mission  ;  and  in  doiiic;  so  wc  shall  need  to  rc- 
mcnibcr  the  blessed  promise  that  "  they  that  sow  in 
tears  shall  reap  in  jo)-." 

At  the  first — Matadi,  on  the  lower  river — the  year 
opened  in  deep  L;ioom.  Mr.  Harvey  was  suffering 
from  severe  illness,  and  his  young  Scotch  colleague, 
Hugh  McKergow,  had  frequentl}'  to  suspend  the 
works  of  the  new  station  in  order  to  nurse  his 
invalid  friend.  More  than  once  he  himself  was  laid 
aside  in  fever.  At  last  Mr.  Harvey  became  so 
dangerously  ill,  that  carl)-  in  Januar)-  he  was  sent 
up  to  be  nursed  and  kindl)'  cared  for  by  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Craven  at  Palabala  ;  where,  on  the  hill,  it  was  hoped 
he  might  speedily  recover.  Not  without  serious  mis- 
givings, however,  was  McKergow  left  alone  for  the 
time,  and  many  an  injunction  was  laid  on  him  to 
send  word  at  once  to  his  friends,  if  he  should  be 
taken  ill  while  left  without  any  luu'opean  companion. 

No  sooner  was  Mr.  Harvey  gone,  than  he  was 
actually  laid  low  in  fever  !  As  agreed,  he  immediatel)' 
despatched  a  messenger  to  Palabala.  But  most  un- 
fortunately the  canoe  on  the  M'poso  River  had  been 
carried  away  in  a  flood,  and  there  was  no  possibility 
of  getting  across !  The  messenger  therefore  had  to 
return  to  the  sick  man,  who  was  rapidly  getting  worse. 
As  soon  as  the  ferry  was  re-established  tidings  of 
McKergow's  illness  were  conveyed  to  Palabala,  but 
some  precious  time  had  been  lost.  Two  brethren  went 
down   at  once  to  nurse  the  poor  patient,  but    found 


DEATH  OF  HUGH  McKERGOW.  2jl 

that  lie  could  retain  neither  food  nor  medicine,  and 
was  becoming  alarmingly  ill.  He  wished  Mr.  Craven 
to  be  sent  for,  which  was  done.  He  arrived  on 
the  following  da}',  and  arranged  for  McKergow's 
removal  to  Palabala,  as  affording  a  last  chance  of 
recovery.  It  was  not  easy  to  convey  an  invalid  over 
so  rough  a  road.  Six  Sierra  Leone  men  carried 
him  up  and  down  the  rocky  hills,  and  he  bore  the 
journey  well.  The  Cravens  gave  up  their  own  room 
for  him,  and  when  comfortably  settled  in  bed  he 
said  gratefully,  "  I  think  I  shall  get  better  now."  For 
a  time  he  seemed  to  do  so,  and  gave  orders  to  the 
"  boys  "  as  to  what  they  were  to  do  on  their  return 
to  Matadi. 

But  drowsiness  soon  came  on  ;  it  was  difficult  to 
rouse  him  for  food  and  medicine.  Every  effort  was 
made  to  sustain  his  strength,  but  he  gradually  became 
unconscious,  and  his  colleagues  saw  that  once  more 
the  angel  of  death  was  visiting  the  mission,  and  that 
a  third  of  their  party  was  to  gain  the  martyr's  crown. 
The  young  and  stalwart  frame  became  weaker  and 
weaker,  till  life  ebbed  quietly  away,  and  on  Tuesday, 
the  nth  of  January,  1881,  just  as  the  sun  was  sinking 
below  the  western  horizon,  dear  Hugh  McKergow 
entered  his  eternal  rest ! 

He  did  not  think  he  would  die,  but  his  last  words 
were,  "  Thy  will  be  done,"  words  which  the  survivors 
had  to  make  an  effort  to  echo !  It  was  a  dark  day 
to  them  when  for  the  third  time  they  had  to  make 
a  coffin  and  dig  a  grave  in  the  night.  An  invitation 
was  sent  to  the    king,  and    he  came  to  the   funeral 


"77/r   WILL   HE  DONE." 


witli  many  of  the  natives.  Mr.  CVavcn  spoke  to 
them  out  of  a  full  heart.  He  could  not  explain  the 
m)'ster)'  which  in  tiieir  simplicity  they  fully  per- 
ceived :  "  if  these  men  are  the  servants  of  God,  if 
their  God  is  stronLj  and  i^ood,  as  they  say,  why  dcjcs 
He  let  them  die  thus?"  But  the  people  could  and 
did  recr)L;nisc  the  lo\e  and  compassion  that  moved 
their  missionary  friends  to  risk  aiul  lose  life  itself 
for  thciy  sakes. 

They  had  c^ot  past  the  sta^^c  of  ar^^uin<:j,  as  the}' 
often  did  at  first,  "  The  white  man's  country  must 
be  a  very  bad  one,  since  they  prefer  coming  to 
live  with  us,  though  our  climate  kills  them."  They 
had  learnt  to  believe  to  some  extent  in  disinterested 
love.  A  boy  of  the  sister  mission  of  the  B.M.S. 
wrote  to  some  friends  in  England  later  on,  in  his 
broken  English  :  "  Another  matter  about  God's  white 
men  we  are  much  surprised  at,  that  they  leave  their 
fine  country  to  come  to  our  wild  country  ;  and  the 
trouble  the)-  have  in  travelling  and  their  dj'ing,  the}' 
do  not  consider,  because  out  of  their  pity  they  desire 
to  snatch  us  out  of  the  hand  of  the  devil,  and  to  show 
us  the  path  of  our  Saxiour  Jesus  Christ.  And  we 
too,  we  like  them  very  much  from  the  bottom  of  all 
our  heart." 

The  news  of  this  death  was  a  great  shock  to  us 
when  it  reached  England  in  April.  We  had  con- 
sidered Hugh  McKergow  as  one  of  the  strongest 
of  the  part)',  and  while  we  had  often  been  anxious 
about  Mr.  Harvey  had  entertained  no  fears  for  him. 
We  could  not  mourn  for  him  that  he  had  been  called 


DYING  FOR   CHRIST  AND  AFRICA.  273 

to  hear  his  Master's  "  Well  done !  good  and  faithful 
servant,"  after  only  one  brief  year  of  suffering  and 
toil.  The  disciple  who  for  Christ's  sake  and  the 
gospel's  has  laid  down  his  life  is  to  be  envied  rather 
than  pitied. 

But  our  hearts  were  heavy  as  we  realized  afresh  the 
deadly  nature  of  the  climate  with  which  we  had  to 
deal,  and  the  heavy  cost  at  which  Christianity  must 
be  introduced  into  Congoland.  The  tidings  of  this 
third  death  in  the  mission  reached  us,  as  we  have  said, 
just  as  two  new  members,  Messrs.  Stephen  White  and 
Jesse  Blunt,  were  preparing  to  sail  next  day  from 
Liverpool  to  join  the  mission.  The  news  might  well 
have  discouraged  them  and  made  them  hesitate.  We 
zuishcd  them  to  take  it  like  Gideon's  proclamation  to 
his  warriors,  and  to  turn  back  if  they  felt  faint-hearted. 
It  of  course  solemnized  their  views  of  the  step  they 
were  about  to  take  ;  but  after  prayerfully  considering 
the  letter  they  felt  only  the  more  firmly  resolved  to  go 
on  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  fully  prepared,  like  dear 
Telford,  Petersen,  and  McKergow,  to  die  if  need  be  on 
the  Congo,  that  Central  Africa  might  receive  the  gospel. 

Each  of  our  three  first  stations  on  the  Congo  had 
thus  been  founded  at  the  cost  of  a  precious  life,  a 
young,  strong,  earnest,  consecrated  life,  gladly  given 
for  Jesus'  sake ! 


Meantime  some  hopeful  signs  of  progress  towards 
spiritual  results  were  appearing  at  Palabala,  the  oldest 
station  of  the  mission, — the  only  one  at  which  as  yet 
any  command  of  the  language  had  been  attained. 

C.  A.  18 


MR.    STEPHEN    WHITE,  OF    DUNDEE. 


In   writing    from   Palabala    soon   after   his    arrival 
Mr.  Harvey  said  : 

The  \surk  is  progressing  very  favourably  here.  Tliere  is  an  intense 
interest  in  the  gospel  message,  which  is  very  encouraging.  One  cannot 
help  seeing  that  the  good  seed  is  certainly  not  falling  on  rocky  ground. 

The  questions  asked  prove  that  the  people  not  only  listen  but  grasp 
intelligently  the  thoughts  of  the  preacher,  and  could  you  glance  round 
upon  the  eager  black  faces  and  watch  them  as  with  eyes,  mouth,  and 
ears  open,  they  literally  drink  in  the  truth,  you  woukl  realize,  I  think, 
as  you  never  have  done,  that  the  privilege  of  dispensing  the  bread  of 
life  to  these  poor  hungiy  souls  far  outweighs  any  amount  of  self-sacrifice 
involved,  and  is  not  to  be  measured  l^y  silver  or  gold. 

274 


"jyi£0  MADE   GOD?"  275 

One  man  inquired  last  Sunday  at  Idiada's  town,  *'  Who  made  God  ?" 
and  another  asked,  "Who  is  the  stronger,  God  or  the  devil?"  On 
being  told,  he  said,  "Then  why  does  not  God  prevent  the  devil  from 
tempting  us  ?  "  This  was  not  an  easy  question  to  answer,  and  it  was 
some  time  before  they  were  satisfied.  But  they  were  at  last,  and  were 
glad  to  hear  that  Satan  is  not  to  have  it  all  his  own  way,  for  this  is  just 
opposite  to  their  superstitions.  W^e  preach  at  three  towns  eveiy  Sunday 
when  able.  The  last  to  receive  the  gospel  was  Maduda's  town.  At 
first  the  people  there  were  very  suspicious  of  our  intentions,  and  evi- 
dently afraid  that  the  missionary  was  but  the  forerunner  of  the  soldier. 
Now,  after  having  so  long  received  nothing  but  kindness,  they  are 
anxious  to  have  the  benefit  of  the  teaching. 

At  Mr.  Richards'  station  of  Banza  Manteka  some 
impression  was  also  being  made,  though  the  soil  was 
hard.     He  wrote  : 

"  I  recently  visited  two  toxMis  which  no  other  white 
man  has,  as  far  as  we  know,  seen.  The  farthest  is 
only  a  few  hours'  walk  from  this  ;  and  I  was  told 
there  are  two  more  farther  on  in  the  same  direction. 
This  neighbourhood  is  consequently  more  populous 
than  I  had  supposed.  One  of  these  towns  is  the 
nicest  African  place  I  have  yet  seen  in  the  Congo 
region.  It  has  a  good  broad  road,  and  the  huts  on 
each  side  arc  ranged  almost  in  line,  though  detached 
from  each  other.  A  row  of  trees  borders  the  road 
on  each  side.  The  town  is  high,  and  the  next  still 
higher.  After  I  had  passed  through  it  I  turned  round 
and  looked  down  upon  it,  and  really  I  never  saw  a 
more  beautiful  scene.  The  people  seemed  more  in- 
telligent than  their  neighbours,  but  not  less  super- 
stitious. I  got  the  native  who  was  with  me  to  call 
them  together,  and  explain  to  them  the  purpose  for 
which  I   had  come  to  their  country.     They  do  not, 


276  AN  ANSIVERED  PR  A  YEK. 


of  course,  observe  the  Sabbath,  but  seemed  wiUin^  to 
do  so,  though  one  man  inquired  ivIictJier  the  women 
Diight  not  work  on  Sunday.  The  following  week 
quite  a  congregation  came  t(j  the  house  for  worship  ; 
and  they  were  very  attentive  during  the  service, 
though  it  lasted  an  hour  and  a  half.  I  spoke  to  them 
about  the  creation,  the  fall,  and  sin  and  guilt.  It  is 
difficult  to  make  them  believe  that  they  are  wicked, 
for  they  all  assert  that  they  are  good.  They  have 
come  each  week  since  to  the  service,  and  I  shall  never 
forget  the  first  time  I  praj'ed  among  this  people.  I 
explained  that  I  was  going  to  speak  to  God,  and  that 
He  would  hear  me  and  look  upon  each  of  us.  They 
put  their  hands  to  their  faces,  and  put  their  faces  to 
the  ground,  and  were  very  silent  during  the  prayer  ; 
but  as  soon  as  it  was  over  some  of  them  laughed. 
On  one  occasion  they  asked  me  to  pray  to  God  for 
rain,  as  I  had  told  them  it  was  no  use  to  pray  to  their 
idols  for  it.  I  acceded  to  their  request,  and,  although 
we  had  had  no  rain  for  -,  a  loncf  time  and  the 
crops  were  suffering,  .-;  "-  a  heavy  shower  eaine 
on  in  the  afternoon" 


'MOUNT  pleasant:'  277 


Experiences  of  the  McCall  Party. 

\\Q.  left  Mr.  McCall  and  the  pioneers  of  the  mission 
at  Bcmba  in  the  autumn  of  1880.  How  had  they 
fared  during  the  winter  months  ? 

It  had  been  a  time  of  severe  physical  suffering  to 
dear  Adam  McCall,  though  he  had  said  as  little  as 
possible  about  it  to  his  colleagues,  and  had  not  men- 
tioned in  writing  home  how  seriously  out  of  health  he 
was.  Mr.  Clarke  had  been  journeying  up  and  down 
the  river  b}'  canoe  to  get  up  goods,  and  the  others  had 
meanwhile  erected  a  comfortable,  roomy  house  on  a 
plot  of  land  which  they  had  purchased.  They  had 
selected  and  cut  their  own  timber,  a  hard  and  durable 
kind  on  the  river  bank,  and  chosen  a  beautiful  site 
on  a  hill  for  the  station.  It  had  a  good  view,  and 
enjoyed  a  delightful  breeze,  and  they  named  it,  poor 
fellows  !  Mount  Pleasant.  Meantime  they  were  living 
in  a  very  poor  sort  of  hut  during  the  building  of  the 
more  permanent  house.  Under  the  shade  of  some 
giant  trees  by  the  river  they  had  also  constructed  a 
landing  stage  for  their  canoes  ;  and  they  had  planted 
a  kitchen-garden,  and  established  a  small  stock  farm 
to  supply  them  with  food.     Mr.  McCall  wrote: 

I  have  turned  carpenter  in  addition  to  being  architect  and  surveyor, 
doctor,  correspondent,  and  general  manager  of  the  work,  the  boys,  the 
trading  for  food,  the  natives,  and  all  the  varied  affairs  requiring  to  be 
continually  attended  to. 

Speaking  of  the  natives,  we  are  getting  on  well  with  them,  and  they 
treat  us  with  remarkable  consideration,  particularly  in  bringing  us  the 
numerous  articles  we  constantly  (now  especially)  require.  They  bring 
us  thatch  grass  for  our  buildings,  fifsiiiga  (native  rope)  to  tie  it  with, 
mats  beautifully  made  of  grass  or  of  reeds  for  our  inside  lining  ;  bani- 


27S  CHARACTER   OF  NATIVES. 

boos,  i>alin  Ijiaiiclics,  etc.,  etc.  '1  lay  bring  u>,  in  additiun  to  the  list 
I  liave  previously  given  you  (in  a  former  letter),  pineapples,  cabbage, 
l)eans,  honey,  pumpkins,  and  Indian  corn.  In  fact,  I  think  I  may  say 
that  for  situation,  salubrity,  convenience,  food  sui)ply,  missi(jn  pur- 
poses (f.e.  nearness  of  numerous  inhabitants),  and  general  stati<in  pur- 
poses, our  new  establishment  will  prove  all  that  could  be  desired  for 
the  present  ;  probably  at  some  future  time  we  may  rei|uire  more  exten- 
sive premises,  but  the  buildings  now  approaching  completion  will 
answer  every  purpose  for  a  considerable  period.  I  have  been  greatly 
assisted  in  the  erection  of  our  houses  by  the  intelligent  co-operation  of 
our  "boys,"  one  or  two  of  them  in  particular,  one  being  a  carpenter, 
another  a  mason,  two  others  capital  thatchers,  nearly  all  moie  or  less 
ait  fait  at  helping  to  put  up  a  house  of  simple  construction,  which 
accounts  for  the  comparatively  rapiil  progress  we  have  made  since  all 
our  "boys,"  excepting  those  sent  to  Mata<li,  finally  arrived  here,  not 
a  month  ago  yet. 

Mr.  Clarke  and  Mr.  Lancclcy  both  write  from  this 
station  on  the  north  bank  of  the  river  among  the 
Basundi  people,  that  they  found  them  better  than 
they  had  expected.  Stanley  had  spoken  of  them 
as  a  "  most  wretched,  suspicious,  and  degraded  race, 
quarrelsome,  and  intensely  disposed  to  be  affronted." 
Mr.  Clarke  writes  : 

As  to  the  natives  of  this  country,  we  cannot  say  that  our  experience 
of  them  bears  out  the  character  which  has  been  given  them  as  a  bad 
race,  jealous  and  hostile,  etc.  They  are,  of  course,  given  to  stealing 
and  lying,  but  I  fear  this  is  the  rule  among  African  tribes.  To  us  they 
have  been  far  from  hostile.  Only  once  during  our  stay  have  they 
shown  any  disposition  to  be  so,  and  then  the  circumstances  were  an 
apology,  and  they  have  since  shown  a  desire  to  keep  on  good  terms 
with  us.  The  king  gave  us  the  loan  of  a  canoe  without  asking  us  any- 
thing for  it,  and  without  our  requesting  it ;  and  though  it  was  left 
behind,  and  he  wanted  it  to  catch  fish,  he  was  not  angry.  Again  to- 
day several  of  his  men  have  been  here  volunteering  to  go  down  the 
river  for  more  of  our  goods. 

That  they  are  not  of  a  savage  disposition  has  been  shown  in  many 
ways.     They  could  easily  have  taken  our  lives  on  many  occasions  had 


YEARNING  FOR  SOULS,  279 

they  chosen  to  ilo  so.  ^^'e  liavc  had  them  lielpini^  in  the  cook  house  ; 
nnil  wlicn  our  supply  of  food  was  ahiiost  gone,  the  women  cooked  some 
of  their  native  compounds,  and  brought  them  to  us  for  sale,  and  we 
eat  of  them  heartily  and  without  fear.  Had  they  wished  to  do  it,  they 
could  easily  have  poisoned  our  food,  and  helped  themselves  to  all  our 
property.  On  several  occasions  I  have  been  up  and  down  the  river  for 
considerable  distances  searching  for  suitable  wood  for  building.  I  was 
accompanied  by  natives,  and  without  arms  of  any  kind  ;  had  they 
chosen  to  attack  me,  I  was  entirely  at  their  mercy.  So  you  see  they 
are  not  bloodthirsty,  nor  are  they  wholly  unlovable.  My  soul  longs 
for  the  time  when  I  shall  be  able  to  tell  them  fully  and  effectually  of 
Jesu's  love  and  power  to  save.  I  could  scarcely  restrain  the  tears  that 
rose  to  my  eyes  when  I  was  talking  to  one  boy  this  afternoon,  at  the 
thought  of  Jiis  ignorance  of  the  gospel  of  salvation. 

Mr.  Lanceley  similarly  wrote  that  the  people  were 
by  no  means  so  bad  as  they  had  been  painted. 
"  The}'  work  for  us  freely  ;  they  have  brought  up 
;^300  worth  of  goods  without  supervision  ;  we  can 
trust  ourselves  with  them  both  by  land  and  on  the 
river  ;  they  bring  us  a  fair  supply  of  food  at  reason- 
able prices  ;  if  they  are  kindly  treated  they  are  most 
reasonable.  They  do  not  call  themselves  Basundi, 
but  '  Bezi-Manyanga.' " 

But  just  as  the  new  station  was  finished  and  the  pro- 
spects of  usefulness  were  looking  hopeful,  the  storm 
of  trouble  again  burst,  and,  alas  !  never  so  severely  ! 
The  earnest  young  leader  was  suddenly  stricken  with 
a  double  and  treble  sorrow,  and  his  health,  which 
had  been  failing  for  months,  gave  way  completely 
under  the  fresh  strain  that  came  upon  him. 

In  his  diary,  the  entries  made  on  the  4th  of  Feb- 
ruary, 1 88 1,  are  marked  round  with  a  heavy  black  line. 
The  party  were  sitting  at  breakfast  that  day  when 
a  Kroo-boy  ran   in    to  say  the  canoe  was  in  sight. 


28o  ''DEAD  NEWS  1-OR    YOU,   SIK." 


Hastily  finishiiif^  the  mc.il,  they  ran  down  to  their 
landintj^  stac,fe  to  <^rcct  the  ardent!)'  lonj^cd-for  "  mail," 
for  they  had  had  no  communication  for  many  weeks 
with  the  outer  world. 

"  Alas,  alas !  how  little  I  knew  what  terrible  news 
was  coming  upon  me  ! "  writes  McCall  in  his  diary. 
"  Stephen  Smith  first  jumped  ashore  and  handed  me 
a  large  and  bulky  packet  of  ! ■^ters,  and  then  he 
abruptly  added,  '  Mr.  McKcrgow  is  dead.'  Incredu- 
lously I  stared  at  him.  '  McKergow  !  dead  ? '  said 
I.  '  Yes,  sir  ;  and  there  is  dead  news  for  yon,  sir.' 
'  What  do  you  mean  ?  '  I  asked.  '  Your  father,  sir,' 
said  he.  'What?  How  do  ;w/ know?'  But  I  took 
the  packet,  rushed  back  to  our  house,  and  hurricdl)' 
and  tremblingly  began  to  tear  open  letter  after  letter 
till  I  came  to  one  of  Craven's,  endorsed  '  bad  news.' 
I  was  amazed,  stunned,  could  not  rcalizx  it  at  all  ! 
It  held  the  announcement  of  my  dear  fatJicr's  death." 

And  well  indeed  might  the  son  be  stunned,  for  the 
father's  sudden  death  in  the  previous  October  had 
been  a  great  shock  to  us  and  to  all  who  had  known 
him.  He  had  no  illness,  and  was  by  no  means  an 
old  man.  Erect  in  form  and  elastic  in  movement, 
bright,  energetic,  and  full  of  life  and  feeling,  he  had 
seemed  scarcely  past  the  prime  of  life  at  his  son's 
farewell  meeting  in  Leicester  in  the  pre\"ious  March. 
His  health  had  been  remarkabl}-  good  through  life, 
and  he  was  so  tall,  broad  built,  and  full  of  robust 
vigour,  that  he  seemed  likely  to  attain  a  great  age. 
He  went  to  bed  in  ordinary  health  the  Saturday 
night  before  his  death,  and  on   Sunday  morning  he 


*' THROUGH   THE   GATES  INTO   THE  CITVr       281 


entered  his  eternal  rest !  It  was  supposed  that  some 
sudden  effusion  on  the  brain  took  place  ;  he  was  gone 
in  half  an  hour  from  the  first  alarm.  He  was  a  man 
of  childlike  faith,  and  his  life  had  been  one  of  faithful, 
untiring  service  to  God  and  man.  I'^or  fifty  years  he 
had  taught  in  or  superintended  the  Sunday  school 
of  the  Church  of  which  he  was  a  much-loved  officer. 
The  heartiness  with  which  he  had  resigned  his  first- 
born and  much  loved  son  for  the  dangerous  mission 
on  the  Congo  evinced  his  sincere  devotion  to  the 
work  of  God.     Mr.  McCall  continues  : 

"  The  terribly  painful  and  wholly  unexpected  news 
was  a  crushing  blow,  .  .  .  yet  were  there  many 
precious  golden  and  silver  threads  running  through 
the  dark  cloud  !  ...  It  was  more  like  a  transla- 
tion than  a  death  ;  no  sickness,  no  lingering  pain,  no 
watching  and  waiting,  no  ^^■asting  away  of  the  noble, 
manly  form.  Only  a  quiet,  peaceful  passing  awa}', 
early  on  the  first  day  of  the  week  !  Instead  of  singing 
his  accustomed  morning  hymn  in  the  beloved  Sunday 
school,  to  which  he  referred  in  his  last  words,  Jie  sang 
it  in  heaven,  he  joined  the  glorious,  everlasting  hymn 
of  thanksgiving  and  praise  to  the  Lamb  that  was 
slain,  who  redeemed  us  with  His  precious  blood.  Oh 
how  happy  a  Sunday  morning  for  him  !  ]\Iay  the 
God  of  all  comfort  console  our  dear,  dear  widowed 
mother, — now,  if  possible,  doubly  dear  !  " 

Other  tidings  of  a  painful  nature  reached  him  by 
the  same  mail — difficulties  in  the  mission  itself,  and 
the  utter  destruction  of  Matadi  Station  by  a  tornado, 
■ — so  that  it  was  no  wonder  he  wrote  :  "  Putting  all 


282  DESTRUCTION  OF  MA'J'ADI  STATION. 

together,  r>ida)',  February  4th,  was  the  most  terrible 
day  I  have  ever  yet  experienced.  Father  dead, 
McKcrgow  dead,  Matadi  completely  destroyed  ! 
.  .  .  After  I  had  read  the  91st  Psalm,  we  had 
united  prayer  to  our  heavenly  l-'ather  for  special  help, 
for  strength  and  guidance  under  these  very  painful 
circumstances.  ...  I  had  to  force  back  my  own 
griefs  and  cares  and  take  up  at  once,  then  and  there, 
the  most  pressing  questions.  ...  I  did  not  turn 
in  till  about  5  a.m.,  and  then  could  not  sleep  at  all." 

Severe  illness  followed,  and  he  was  still  extremely 
weak  when  the  duties  of  his  position  obliged  him 
to  leave  his  colleagues  at  Bemba  and  go  down  to  the 
lower  stations  of  the  mission.  He  was  overtaken  by 
a  tremendous  thunderstorm  in  one  stage  of  the  jour- 
ne}',  and  had  to  "  tumble  into  a  hammock  and  lie 
close  and  get  wet  all  the  weary  long  night,"  and  feel 
"stiff  and  giddy"  as  a  natural  result  in  the  morning. 
It  was  a  comfort  to  reach  the  house  of  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Richards  after  a  struggle  through  grass,  "  taller  and 
thicker  than  ever,  and  all  dripping  with  water.  .  , 
I  was  too  tired  to  sleep,  but  to  lie  still  with  a  roof 
over  my  head  was  a  comfort !  " 

In  conference  with  the  brethren  it  was  decided 
that  plans  must  needs  be  altered  to  suit  altered  cir- 
cumstances, as  is  so  often  necessary  in  all  African 
work.  One  brother  being  dead,  another  completely 
invalided,  and  a  third  going  home,  it  was  clear  the 
remaining  six  could  not  man  all  the  stations,  even 
with  the  expected  reinforcements.  It  was  therefore 
resolved  not  to  rebuild    Matadi,  but    to    transfer   to 


SHOOTING  A   BOA    CONSTRICTOR.  283 


Palabala  the  building  materials  that  survived  the 
wreck,  and  to  erect  a  large  store  there,  and  a  new 
and  stronger  house,  for  the  original  one  was  by  this 
time  decaying  and  becoming  dangerous. 

McCall  subsequently  went  down  to  the  old  spot — 
now  an  intensely  sad  one  to  him — to  superintend  this 
operation.  Here  he  was  for  some  weeks  kept  busy 
in  various  tasks,  among  others  in  defending  his  stock 
from  the  attacks  of  a  boa  constrictor. 

"  A  few  days  ago  this  brute  took  one  of  our  young  kids.  Markham 
shot  with  my  rifle,  but  of  course  missed.  .This  afternoon  I  heard  (while 
working  in  the  store)  the  half  suffocated  cry  of  our  other  kid,  and  at 
once  suspected  the  cause.  The  boys  immediately  came  running  in  to 
tell  me  that  the  big  snake  had  got  the  kid.  I  took  down  Mac's  double 
shot  gun,  and  loading  with  No.  4  shot  ran  up  to  the  place  (the  cave),  and 
there  sure  enough  I  saw  the  poor  little  kid  completely  encircled  in  the 
coils  of  the  huge  snake.  I  gave  it  both  barrels  quick,  and  it  let  go  its 
deadly  hug  and  wriggled  down  the  sloping  rock  and  tried  to  make  off; 
but  I  gave  it  two  more  shots,  which  put  an  end  to  its  career  effectually, 
and  finally  one  more  shot  to  make  sure.  Then  I  crept  in  under  the  over- 
hanging rock  or  roof  of  our  cave,  and  grasping  it  by  the  end  of  its  tail 
dragged  its  horrid  length  right  out  ;  it  was  still  engorged  and  swollen 
from  the  effects  of  its  recent  repast  on  our  kid.  We  hauled  it  down  to 
our  '  compound,'  and  there  I  measured  it,  full  nine  feet  six  inches.  The 
boys  were  in  high  glee  over  the  capture,  and  the  effectual  delivery 
from  its  further  ravages." 

Early  in  March  Mr.  McCall  proceeded  to  Banana 
to  meet  the  fresh  missionaries,  and  while  awaiting  the 
steamer  he  secured  a  good  site  for  the  new  station 
there.  He  had  afterwards  another  severe  attack  of 
hepatic  derangement ;  but  sea  air,  regular  and  pro- 
perly cooked  meals,  and  rigid  attention  to  the  doctor's 
advice  brought  him  round,  and  in  May  he  wrote  quite 
cheerfully  of  being  nearly  up  to  his  "  usual  standard 


284  ''YE  HAVE  NEED   OF  PATIENCE." 

of  health  and  vigour."  lie  was  ddi^htcd  with  the 
arrival  of  the  fresh  reinforcements,  as  well  as  with  the 
house,  the  boat,  and  all  that  had  been  sent,  but  dread- 
fully disai)p(M"ntcd  that  it  had  been  fcjund  impossible 
to  secure  a  fresh  t(an^c(  of  Kroo-boys,  as  this  aj^ain 
delayed  an  advance  into  the  interior,  and  made  it 
difficult  also  to  push  on  quickly  with  the  building 
of  IJanana  Station.  He  sent  a  special  messenger  back 
to  Cape  Palmas  to  engage  a  gang,  but  he  too  failed 
to  secure  one.  This  was  a  great  trial  of  patience,  and 
McCall  wrote  : 

I  try  not  to  chafe  nnd  worry  myself  because  I  cannot  get  away  up 
country  to  prosecute  my  plans  for  yetting  up  to  Stanley  Pool,  but  I 
fiiul  my  thoughts  continually  day  ami  night  carrying  me  away  to  the  far 
interior,  and  have  to  pray  especially  iox ^atuitcc.  As  Livingstone  says  : 
"  Surely,  if  God  can  bear  with  hardened  impenitent  sinners  for  thirty, 
forty,  or  fifty  years,  waiting  to  be  gracious,  we  may  take  it  for  granted 
this  is  the  best  way.  .  .  ,  We  must  feel  that  there  is  a  Governor 
among  the  nations,  who  will  bring  all  His  plans  with  respect  to  our 
human  family  to  a  glorious  consummation.  lie  who  stays  his  mind 
on  the  ever-present,  ever-energetic  God  will  not  fret  himself  because  of 
evil  doers.     '  lie  that  believeth  shall  not  make  haste.'  " 

I  may  just  say  en  passant  that  I  am  delighted  with  this  new  life  of 
Livingstone,  which  is  grand.  One  seems  to  enter  into  the  veiy  soul 
and  spirit  of  the  noble  man.  IIow  natural  and  unaffected  he  was  ! 
how  simple  and  genuine  !  May  the  Lord  grant  us  to  be  more  like 
him,  and  thus  more  like  the  Master  whose  footsteps  he  so  long  un- 
weariedly  and  faithfully  followed  ! 

Alluding  to  the  men  newly  arrived,  he  writes  : 

We  get  on  well  together.  Every  day  I  am  the  more  convinced  of  the 
necessity  of  thoroughly  unselfish  and  brotherly  co-operation  in  order  to 
the  successful  prosecution  of  our  great  work  ;  and  of  the  necessity  of 
simple:,  absolute  trust  in  the  living  God,  complete  dependence  on  the 
lovingkindncss  and  perfect  knowledge  of  the  blessed  Lord  whose  king- 
dom we  desire  to  extend. 


"CAST  DOWN,   BUT  NOT  DESTROYED:'  285 

The  summer  was  spent  in  erecting  the  new  station 
at  Banana,  in  distributing  the  newly  arrived  mission- 
aries and  stores,  in  sending  home  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John- 
son, who  were  recalled  as  not  suited  to  the  mission, 
and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Craven,  who,  as  we  have  mentioned 
were  sent  home  on  sick  leave,  and  in  generally  super- 
intending the  interests  of  the  mission. 

But  all  this  time  Adam  McCall's  health  was 
rapidly  failing,  and  serious  internal  mischief  was  pro- 
gressing.    On  Sept.  9th  he  wrote  : 

This  last  week  I  have  been  very  ill  indeed,  and  still  am,  the  old  com- 
plaint, but  much  worse  and  more  severe  ;  all  my  symptoms  show  that 
I  am  hovering  on  the  verge  of  hepatic  abscess,  and  you  know  how 
serious  an  afifair  that  is.  ...  I  have  spoken  of  going  on  with  my 
work  in  the  interior,  but  whether  I  shall  be  able  to  move  a  single  step 
in  that  direction  I  do  not  know  !  I  am  in  a  precarious  state  ;  my  liver 
enormously  enlarged  and  permanently  affected.  I  have  therefore  deter- 
mined to  go  to  Landana  and  consult  Dr.  Lucan.  This  is  manifestly 
my  duty  ;  all  the  brethren  urge  me  to  do  it,  and  if  Dr.  Lucan,  as  I  am 
afraid  he  will,  orders  me  to  leave  this  climate  immediately,  ^vhat  am 
I  to  do  ?  who  will  direct  the  onward  move  of  our  mission  ?  I  have  a 
most  passionate  and  consuming  longing  to  get  away  up  country,  now 
especially  !  I  have  in  my  mind  a  host  of  plans  and  arrangements  which 
I  could  with  God's  blessing  carry  out,  and  I  long,  with  a  longing  few 
could  understand,  to  be  in  the  midst  of  it  and  carry  them  out  !  ^Ye 
have  made  veiy  special  prayer  to  God  for  my  recovery,  at  any  rate  so 
far  that  I  may  be  able  to  carry  out  my  heart's  desire.  I  am  taking  a 
new  and  powerful  medicine,  but  it  only  seems  to  shift  the  pain  about 
from  one  part  to  another.  Still  I  have  determined  that,  if  it  be  at  all 
possible,  I  will  (u.v.)  go  up  in  about  ten  days  from  now. 

Though  it  had  been  a  great  trial  to  him  all^through 
the  summer  to  be  unable  to  advance  up  the  country 
for  lack  of  Kroo-boys,  yet  he  felt  that  there  was 
perhaps  providential  guidance  in    the  hindrance,  as 


286  NOT  EXPLORERS,   BUT  MISSIONARIES. 

his  presence  at  l^anana  seemed  of  Ljreat  importance 
while  the  new  station  there  was  bein^  built  and 
ori^anized,  and  a  new  house  also  at  Palabala.  He 
had  previously  written  : 

It  would  uf  course  be  far  plcasanter,  and  sound  as  if  we  were  pusliing 
on  faster,  if  1  were  to  leave  Banana  and  I'alahala  to  take  their  chance, 
as  it  were,  and  go  ahead  at  all  risks  into  the  interior.  JJut  my  desire  is 
not  to  be  considered  a  hero  or  anytiiing  of  that  kind  (though  you  know 
how  exceedingly  desirous  I  am  to  go  ahead),  but  firmly  to  establish 
our  mission  on  a  tlwroii^lily  good  -vorking  basis.  We  are  not  explorers, 
but  missionaries ;  there  are  plenty  of  explorers.  Stanley  Pool  is  no 
longer  an  unknown  land,  and  will  soon  be  occupied  by  many  white 
men  ;  it  seems  to  me  that  what  -we  ought  to  do  is  not  so  much  to  rush 
ahead  as  to  plant  real  mission  stations  as  we  go.  Vox  every  reason  I 
think  this  the  best.  No  station  can  ever  begin  to  be  really  useful 
unless  it  is  thoroughly  well  established  to  begin  with,  and  unless  the 
brethren  settle  down  at  it,  master  the  language,  and  cultivate  the 
acquaintance  and  goodwill  of  the  natives  in  the  vicinity.  These  people 
get  to  know  and  trust  us  veiy  slowly,  and  do  not  like  strangers  and 
strange  faces  too  often.  Our  main  object  I  take  it  is  to  preach  the 
gospel,  to  raise  and  civilize  the  people,  to  plant  centres  of  light  and 
knowledge  in  the  land  ;  and  this,  as  constant  experience  has  proved, 
can  only  be  done  gradually.  We  must  grow  like  a  tree  planted  by  the 
rivers  of  water,  slowly  but  surely,  always  developing,  and  so  acting 
that  what  we  do  is  done  icell,  and  will  last. 

The  feeling  that  he  was  needed  at  the  mouth  of 
the  river  was  however  exceeded  by  the  strong  desire 
to  get  to  the  front.  13cfore  the  close  of  this  same 
letter,  after  describing  how  well  Lanceley  and  Clarke 
had  "  held  the  fort  "  up  at  Bemba  all  alone  for  many 
months,  he  says  : 

Ah,  dear  Mrs.  Guinness,  it  is  no  irse  !  j  must  go  I  My  whole  heart 
yearns  to  be  away  up  river,  and  to  bear  the  brunt  with  my  brothers  !  I 
know  I  am  wanted  liere  ;  that  is  patent ;  but  I  cannot  stay  and  leave 
them  to  battle  on  alone  up  yonder.     No,  I  simply  cannot  1 


''TO  BEAR   THE  BRUNT  WITH  MY  BROTHERS."  287 

He  was  soon  convinced  however,  both  by  his  inter- 
view with  Dr.  Lucan,  of  Landana,  and  by  increasing 
suffering,  that  there  was  no  time  to  lose  in  leaving 
Africa,  if  his  life  was  to  be  saved  at  all ;  and  he 
began  to  set  things  in  order  with  a  view  to  sailing 
for  home  by  the  following  month's  mail.  There 
was  however  much  to  be  arranged  first,  as  he  was 
director  of  the  mission  in  Africa  ;  and  though  utterly 
unfit  for  the  journey,  on  Monday,  the  26th  of  Sep- 
tember, he  started  up  the  river  in  the  Livingstone 
to  take  Mr.  Smith  and  Mr.  Frederickson  to  Palabala, 
and  make  final  arrangements  with  Messrs.  Harvey 
and  Waters.  In  his  diary  he  writes  how  he  "  took 
the  helm  for  distraction  of  mind  from  pain,"  how 
on  reaching  Ponta  da  Lenha  he  was  "  in  agony " 
after  dinner,  and  had  to  ask  his  host  to  excuse  him, 
and  to  take  chloral  and  retire  to  bed,  but  not  to 
sleep,  even  under  the  influence  of  opium  subse- 
quently employed.  Still,  though  unable  to  walk,  he 
was  carried  on  board  next  day  and  proceeded  to 
Boma,  and  the  following  day — steering  again  to  keep 
his  mind  occupied — to  Matadi.  Here  he  was  again 
seized  with  a  fit  of  very  severe  pain,  had  to  lie  down 
on  the  floor  for  some  time,  and  felt  that  walking  up 
to  Palabala  was  out  of  the  question.  In  his  diary 
he  writes  : 

Determined  however  to  go  on  at  all  risk  now  !  The  others  rigged 
out  an  impromptu  hammock  and  carrying  pole,  with  a  cotton  blanket. 
Into  this  I  crept,  and  about  11  a.m.  we  made  a  start.  Heat  oppres- 
sive !  Had  to  walk  every  now  and  then  of  course.  Halted  at  old  site, 
showed  the  spot  to  Smith  and  Frederickson  ;  sad  !  sad  !  always  brings 
poor  McKergow  before  me  !     On  again  ;  carrying,  licavy  work  for  tlie 


2SS 


''FOR    WHOM  I  HAVE  SUFFERED." 


men  ;  reached  the  river.  On  again  ;  suddenly  bang!  went  the  blanket, 
slit  right  across  !  I  fell  on  the  ground  flat ;  it  shook  me,  but  curiously 
enough  did  not  at  the  time  appear  to  hurt  me  much.  There  was  no- 
thing for  it  now  but  to  take  off  my  coat  and  try  to  walk;  it  was  a 
terrible  struggle  ;  I  shall  not  soon  forget  it  ;  had  to  halt  for  breath 
every  few  yards ;  but  I  did  get  down  to  the  M'poso  by  some  means, 
and  over  it,  and  then  screwed  myself  up  for  a  last  desperate  effort  to 
reach  the  little  fresh-water  stream  under  the  trees.  This  last  attempt 
was  too  much,  I  positively  reeled  along  ;  never  do  I  remember  being 
so  thankful  to  reach  any  place  as  I  was  to  reach  this  stream,  and, 
taking  a  draught  of  cool  water,  lie  down  on  the  rocks.  To  go  farther 
was  impossible,  so  I  sent  a  note  to  Harvey  for  hammock,  pole,  and 
native  carrriers,  to  finish  the  journey. 

Just  as  it  was  getting  dark,  Kinkella  Mabambo  and  Lusalla  ap- 
peared, with  another  strong  carrier.  The  hammock  was  soon  rigged 
up,  and  wc  started  to  make  the  tremendous  ascent,  bad  for  a  good 
walker  in  health,  but  a  fearful  road  to  be  carried  up  !  Kinkella  took 
the  most  difficult  post,  i.e.  the  back  of  the  pole,  and  away  we  went, 
Lusalla  in  front.  When  we  came  to  the  remarkable  white  quartz  reefs 
I  got  out ;  it  was  not  within  the  reasonable  power  of  man  to  drag  a 
loaded  hammock  over  tfiem.  Having  passed  them  and  gained  a  fair 
path,  I  got  in  again ;  and  just  as  they  were  starting,  bang  !  went  the 
hammock,  once  more  letting  me  fall  about  three  feet,  on  to  my  back. 
It  was  a  terrible  shock.  It  went  through  me  like  a  charge  of  elec- 
tricity. Smith  rushed  to  lift  me  up,  but  I  begged  him  to  let  me  lie  still 
a  minute.  Then  I  got  up,  had  the  hammock  refixed,  and  once  more 
got  in,  thistime  /keeping  hold  of  tite  pole  !  Up,  up  we  climbed,  Kinkella 
and   Lusalla  doing  wonders,   but  it  was  a  heavy  strain  on  them.     It 


LAST  HOURS   IN  AFRICA.  289 


afterwards  became  so  cold  I  had  lo  be  covered  in  under  my  ruj;,  and  to 
leave  off  holding  the  pole.     Wo  arrived  at  the  old  house  at  8. 30  p.m. 

Thursday  and  Frida}-,  the  last  two  da\'s  of  Septem- 
ber, he  spent  at  Palabala,  too  ill  e\-en  to  write,  but 
arranging  for  some  needful  building  operations,  for 
distribution  of  stores,  etc.,  and  dictating  for  hours 
letters  and  instructions  for  the  different  brethren  and 
stations.  "  With  the  exception  of  meals  and  fervent 
united  prajxr,  I  did  not  cease  dictating  nor  Waters 
writing  letters,  instructions,  directions,  particulars, 
cautions,  hints,  etc.,  until  Saturday  morning  at  6  a.m. 
It  was  awful,  but  imperative!  Then  hurriedly  putting 
together  my  few  things  and  taking  a  cup  of  coffee 
and  an  t.^^,  I  started,  carried  by  two  of  the  Cabinda 
boys,  for  the  Livingstone,  at  Matadi." 

His  last  hours  in  Africa  were  cheered  b}-  the  recep- 
tion of  the,  to  him,  joyful  intelligence  of  the  donation 
to  the  mission  of  the  Henry  Reed  steamer  for  the 
Upper  Congo.  "  Very  good  news,"  he  writes  in  his 
log,  "from  Mrs.  Guinness";  then  after  particularizing, 
"  Capital  !      Thank  the  Lord !     Bless  His  name!'' 

He  secured  a  comfortable,  roomy  cabin  in  the  S.S. 
Lnalaba,  which  brought  him  this  intelligence,  and 
taking  leave  of  Messrs.  Billington  and  Angus  went 
on  board. 


C.  A.  19 


"  JVoir  I  fi(rther  saw  that  helivixt  litem  and  the  gate  't.'as  a  rhcr,  but 
there 'was  no  bridge  to  go  over  ;  tlic  rh'er  was  very  deep.  ...  The 
pil\^rims  then  began  to  despond  in  their  minds.  .  .  .  They  asked  the 
men  if  the  luaters  luere  all  of  a  depth.  They  said,  '  No '  ;  yet  they 
eon  Id  not  help  them  in  that  ease  ;  ''for^  said  they,  '■you  shall  find  it 
deeper  or  shall o'iver  as  you  believe  in  the  King  of  the  place.'  .  .  .  A'ow 
I  saw  in  my  dream,  that  these  two  men  went  in  at  the  gate  :  and  as  they 
entered  they  were  transfigured,  and  they  had  raiment  put  on  them  that 
shone  like  gold.  There  'were  also  that  tnel  them  with  harps  and  ero7ons 
and  gave  to  them — the  harps  to  praise  loithal,  and  the  erviims  in  tokeii  of 
honour.  .  .  .  No'lU  just  as  the  gates  were  opened  to  let  in  the  men, 
I  looked  in  after  them,  and,  behold,  the  city  shone  like  the  sun  ;  the  streets 
also  'were  paved  'with  gold,  and  in  them  walked  many  men,  with  cro'wns 
on  their  heads,  palms  in  their  hands,  and  golden  harps  to  sing  praises 
'wilhal.  There  'were  also  of  them  that  had  'wings,  and  they  ans^oered 
one  another,  without  intermission,  saying,  '  Holy,  holy,  holy  is  the 
Lord. ' 

^'  And  after  that  they  shut  up  the  gates :  'which,  'when  1  had  seen, 
I  'wished  myself  among  them.'" — John  Bunyan. 


CHAPTER  V. 
THE    VOYAGE  HOME. 

It  was  on  the  8th  of  October  that  McCall  at  last 
left  Banana,  a  d}'ing  man,  alas !  though  he  deemed 
not  so  !  He  looked  forward,  on  the  contrary,  to  a 
brief  tarriance  in  England,  to  superintend  the  con- 
struction of  the  steamer  for  the  Upper  Congo,  and 
then  to  a  speedy  return,  to  utilize  the  following  dry 
season  in  carrj-ing  her  up  to  Stanley  Pool. 

His  last  glimpse  of  the  Congo  is  thus  mentioned  in 
his  diar}'.  "  As  we  steamed  along,  Banana  stood  out 
clear  and  bright  in  the  sunlight,  the  long  white  stores 
and  buildings  showing  in  vivid  contrast  to  the  dark- 
green  background  ;  it  looked  very  beautiful.  May 
God  preserve  and  protect  our  beloved  mission  and  all 
our  dear  brethren  till  I  come  back !  This  was  my 
repeated  prayer." 

.  There  was  a  doctor  on  board  the  mail  steamer,  and 
various  remedies  were  tried  as,  during  the  next  wear}- 
six  7ueeks,  the  steamer  slowly  made  its  way  round  the 
Gulf  of  Guinea,  stopping  almost  daily  to  discharge 
and  take  in  cargo.  All  this  time  Mr.  McCall's  com- 
plaint was  rapidly  gaining  ground,  and  after  leaving 
Sierra  Leone  his  strength  and  appetite   began  to  fail 

fast. 

291 


292  TOO  JJ.L    JO  J.EAVE  MADEIRA. 

The  last  entries  made  in  the  long  and  faithfully 
kept  "  log  "  are  in  a  weak  and  trembling  hand,  very 
unlike  his  usual  writing,  and  are  dated  in  the  early 
days  of  November.  The)-  consist  of  mere  entries  of 
arrival  and  de[)arture  at  the  \ari(jus  ports. 

When  the  \essel  reached  Madeira  he  was  ad\ised 
not  to  land,  but  wishing  to  purchase  a  few  presents 
to  take  to  friends  at  home  he  made  an  effort  to  do 
so,  and  then  realized  with  bitter  grief  that  he  was 
reall)'  too  ill  to  proceed,  though  so  near  home !  This 
was  on  a  Saturday'.  On  Sunda)-  he  seems  to  have  been 
almost  unconscious  ;  on  the  Monday  he  telegraphed 
to  his  brother  of  his  detention  and  severe  illness, 
but  even  then  ga\e  no  hint  of  danger.  Not  until  a 
second  telegram  announced  that  the  hepatic  abscess 
had  burst,  did  we  in  England  realize  how  the  sad  case 
really  stood.  And  then  it  was  inexpressibly  painful  to 
all  who  lo\ed  him — and  they  were  not  a  few — to  feel 
that,  though  within  reach  of  telegraphic  messages  at 
last,  five  hundred  miles  of  storm}-  ocean  still  separated 
them  from  the  dear  sufferer,  that  he  must  die  alone 
among  strangers,  though  within  a  few  days'  sail  of 
his  native  land,  of  his  \\idowed  mother,  and  of  his 
much  loved  home  ! 

The  Lord  however  graciously  sent  the  sympath\' 
and  consolation  His  servant  needed  in  this  hour  of 
loneliness,  suffering,  and  sore  need.  He  had  not  only 
every  outward  comfort  at  Reid's  Hotel,  and  good 
medical  assistance,  but  he  had  also  the  help  of  Chris- 
tian fellowship  and  ministr)-  from  the  Rew  J.  M. 
Allan,  a  Presb}'terian  minister  staj'ing  in  the  island. 


''BUT  HE  IS  strong:'  293 

The  following  letter  embodies  this  gentleman's 
recollection  of  his  interviews  with  the  dying  mission- 
ary, and  is  the  only  glimpse  we  have  of  his  closing 
experiences,  for  he  seems  to  have  been  too  ill  to  write 
even  a  line. 

QuiNTA  Jerino,  Madeu^a, 
Dec.  6th,  1 88 1. 
Mv  DEAR  Mrs.  McCail, — 

You  expressed  a  desire  to  have  some  jottings  of  the  visits  I  paid 
to  your  son,  Adam  McCall,  on  the  two  days  preceding  his  death  ; 
and  I  shall  now  endeavour  to  comply  with  your  wish.  And  gladly 
shall  I  do  so  ;  for  as  I  was  myself  much  cheered  and  strengthened 
by  my  meetings  with  your  son,  in  what  I  may  call  his  dying  hours,  as  I 
have  not  in  my  experience  seen  a  more  remarkable  example  of  the 
power  of  God's  grace,  I  am  confident  that  a  brief  record  of  my  visit  will 
help  to  strengthen  and  deepen  your  own  trust,  and,  shall  I  not  add  ? 
your  own  joy. 

On  the  morning  of  Wednesday,  the  23rd  of  last  month,  I  received 
a  note  from  Mr.  Reid's  hotel,  asking  me  to  call  down  and  see  a  young 
man,  a  Mr.  McCall,  a  missionary. from  Africa,  who  was  lying  very  ill 
at  the  hotel.  I  went  down  in  the  afternoon,  and  entering  the  room 
found  him  in  bed  looking  very  ill,  an  attendant  beside  him.  I  went 
up  to  him  and  we  looked  into  each  other's  face,  I  taking  his  hand  and 
saying,  "How  are  you  now  ?  You  appear  very  weak."  He  replied  (the 
words  coming  slowly  and  with  some  difficulty),  "  Yes,  I  am,  very  weak; 
but  (and  here  it  is  impossible  to  give  any  idea  of  the  soul  he  put  into 
his  words  as  he  pointed  upward  and  added)  but  He  is  strong." 
"  Yes,"  I  replied,  "  He  /j  strong  ;  and  now  you  are  notj-eally  weak,  for 
you  are  strong  in  Him."     "  Yes,"  he  said  ;   "strong  IN  HlM." 

We  talked  together,  he  saying  he  was  not  afraid  to  die.  "  Why 
should  I  ?  Jesus  died  for  me."  He  then  spoke  of  his  dear  father, 
telling  me  he  had  lost  him  about  a  year  ago,  and  what  a  remarkable 
man  he  was  in  his  love  and  work  for  Christ,  and  of  his  sudden 
death. 

Then  he  told  me  about  his  mission  work  in  Africa,  but  in  such  a 
humble  way,  keeping  himself  in  the  background,  that  I  had  no  idea 
he  held  the  important  post  he  did.  He  mentioned  his  having  been 
much  exposed,  sleeping  out  frequently,  etc.,  to  which  probably  was  due 
the  illness  from  which  lie  was  tiien  suffering. 


294  SOLEMNITY  OF  HIS  LAST  PR  A  YEN. 

I  stayed  with  liim  for  some  time,  for  between  two  and  three  hours, 
having  sent  the  attendant  out  of  the  room,  and  assisted  him  with  ice 
and  what  else  had  been  provided  for  him  with  the  view  of  keeping 
up  his  strength.  He  expressed  himself  so  glad  to  see  me,  calling  mc 
brother  ;  and  I  exjiressed  as  I  felt,  and  do  still,  great  regret  that  I  did 
not  sooner  know  of  his  being  in  Madeira. 

Before  leaving,  I  proposed  that  we  should  join  in  prayer.  He  heartily 
acquiesced,  and  I  led  in  prayer,  being  much  moved  (I  trust  by  the 
Spirit  of  God),  and  being  very  sensible  of  the  Divine  presence.  As  I 
finished,  I  heard  his  voice  beginning  before  I  had  risen  from  my  knees, 
and  supplicating  at  the  throne  of  grace  in  a  prayer  that  I  can  never 
forget. 

It  is  impossible  to  transcribe  it,  and  even  if  I  could  remember  the 
exact  words,  it  would  not  convey  an  idea  of  the  heart  and  soul,  the 
solemnity  of  the  prayer.  The  scene ;  the  man,  noble  in  face,  brow, 
eye,  and  mouth,  that  could  not  but  strike  you  at  once ;  full  of  intel- 
ligence, feeling,  and  force ;  the  voice,  broken  at  times,  sometimes 
laboured,  it  being  evidently  an  effort,  occasionally  very  difficult,  to  give 
forth  its  tones ;  and  above  all  the  directness,  simplicity,  and  earnest- 
ness of  the  thoughts,  make  the  prayer  of  your  dear  son  impossible  to 
recall.  Had  you  been  there  you  would  have  felt,  as  I  felt,  it  was 
enough,  you  had  nothing  to  wish  for,  the  Lord's  will  be  done  !  I  have 
never  seen  the  blessed  grace  of  Gocf  so  wondrously  exemplified  before, 
so  much  so  that  it  seemed  to  me  to  border  on  the  miraculous,  as  if  he 
might  be  in  delirium  (not  knowing  the  man,  nor  indeed  tlien  anything 
about  him).  Now  that  I  have  read  some  of  his  letters  which  you  have 
kindly  lent  me,  I  can  testify  how  in  keeping  with  their  spirit  of  trust 
and  confidence  were  his  very  last  utterances. 

Perhaps  you  might  like  if  I  were  to  indicate  the  few  that  recur  to 
me  of  the  thoughts  and  expressions  of  your  son,  the  last  time  he  met 
with  a  brother  on  earth  at  the  throne  of  grace.  The  words  were 
uttered  with  difficulty  and  at  intervals. 

"Almighty — eternal — God, — I  am — very  near — Thy  presence — 
at  this  time.  I  am  not  able— to  use — many  words  to  Thee, — but  that 
—  is  not  necessary.  Thou— knovvest — all  I  want.  Thou  knowest — 
the  circumstances,  Lord  ;  do — as  Thou — pleasest, — I  have — nothing  to 
say.  I  am  not — dissatisfied  that  Thou  art — about  to  take  me — away. 
Why  should  I  be  ?  I  gave  myself, — body,  mind,  and  soul — to  Thee  ; 
consecrated — my  whole  life  and  being — to  Thy  service  ;  and  now — if 
it  please  Thee — to  take  myself — instead  of  the  work  I  would  do  for 
Thee, — what  is  that  to  me?     Tliy  'vill  be  doiie,^' 


"/  SHALL  BE    WITH   THEE."  295 


lie  prayed  on,  ejaculating,  fervently  hut  with  clilTicuUy,  and  as 
if  speaking  closely  to  his  Saviour.  1  ienicml)er  this  :  "  Yes,  blessed 
yi'sus,  I  shall  be  7i'i(h  Thee  !  "  his  voice  mingling  with  his  tears. 

He  concluded  with  a  very  sublime  ending,  showing  how  completely 
under  control  were  all  his  faculties,  as  indeed  they  continued  to  the 
very  close  of  life. 

I  saw  him  again  the  following  day.  lie  was  much  worse;  some 
internal  change  had  taken  place,  and  he  was  expectorating  very  fre- 
quently and  was  much  distressed.  His  first  words  to  me  were,  "  I 
am  nearing  the  brink,  brother."  Directions  had  been  left  for  any  one 
visiting  him  to  stay  no  longer  than  five  minutes,  and  owing  to  his 
great  physical  distress,  it  was  impossible  to  converse  with  him.  But 
when  I  mentioned  his  having  had  a  telegram  from  home  he  gave  a 
movement  and  said  with  energy,  "Mother  and  brother  leaving  on 
Friday." 

Three  things  I  was  struck  with  in  him,  they  were  remarkable.  His 
unhesitating  decision  (his  first  words  to  me  showed  that)  ;  his  natural- 
ness ;  and  his  strength.  He  \\'as  a  strong  man  physically,  even  when 
I  saw  him  wasted  with  disease  ;  strong  physically,  mentally,  and,  above 
all,  spiritually.  He  was  calculated,  had  he  been  spared,  to  influence 
men  for  Christ.  But  who  shall  know  the  mind  of  the  Lord  ?  and  who 
shall  be  His  counsellor  ? 

It  was  early  in  the  morning  of  a  stormy  Friday, 
the  25th  of  November,  that  Mr.  McCall  fell  asleep  in 
Jesus,  but  the  tidings  did  not  reach  England  till  late 
in  the  day.  His  mother  and  brother  had  journeyed 
from  Leicester  to  Southampton  in  the  night.  They 
were  already  on  the  deck  of  the  GartJi  Castle,  \\'hcn 
a  telegram  to  the  effect  that  the  patient  could  not 
live  many  hours  reached  them.  A  terrible  storm 
was  already  blowing,  should  they  go  on  ?  There  was 
no  time  to  deliberate,  they  telegraphed  that  they  were 
starting,  and  proceeded,  hoping  against  hope  that 
they  might  still  be  in  time.  As  a  rule,  four  days 
suffice  to  reach  Madeira,  but  tliat  day  the  gale  soon 


2gQ  A   DESOLATE    VOYAGE-TOU   LATE. 

rose  to  a  hurricane,  and  the  Atlantic  was.lashccl  into 
fury.  A  wild,  desolate,  dreadful  soyix^o.  it  was,  and 
at  one  time  it  seemed  as  if  the  famil)'  tic  just  severed 
by  death  was  by  death  to  be  speed il)-  reunited  !  For 
six  and  thirty  hours  the  fires  of  the  Garth  Castle  were 
extinguished,  and  she  lay  to,  amid  the  mountainous 
billows,  the  sea  breaking  over  her  continually.  But 
she  weathered  the  storm,  and  when  she  reached 
Madeira,  two  days  later  than  usual,  the  sun  was 
brightly  shining  on  the  beautiful  scene,  which  looked 
by  contrast  like  a  peaceful,  lovely  paradise.  But  he 
whom  they  sought  was  not  there  !  He  had  weathered 
a  worse  storm,  reached  a  more  peaceful  port,  and 
entered  a  fairer  paradise  ! 

It  seemed  a  sad  and  terrible  dream  !  Could  it  be 
that  he  who  left  our  shores  scarcely  two  years  pre- 
viously, in  the  full  vigour  of  his  strong  young  man- 
hood, his  heart  overflowing  with  earnest  purpose  to 
carry  the  gospel  of  Christ  into  the  great  Congo 
valley,  had  already  finished  his  course,  and  fallen  so 
early  a  victim  to  the  dangers  and  difficulties  of  the 
task  ?  ''  Even  so,  heather  :  for  so  it  seemed  good  in 
Thy  sight." 

What  else  could  ivc  say,  or  the  betrothed  bride,  or 
the  dear,  doubly  bereaved  mother  ?  We  could  not  of 
course  but  earnestly  wish  that  he  had  yielded  earlier 
to  the  inevitable,  and  given  up  the  struggle  before  it 
was  too  late.  In  reading  afterwards  in  his  log  book 
the  daily  jottings  of  the  hand  then  still  in  death,  we 
were  moved  to  tears  in  discovering  how  much  more 


OUGHT   WE    TO   GO  FORWARDS       '  297 


he  had  suffered  tlian  he  had  allowed  us  to  suppose. 
A  brave  struggle  was  maintained  from  day  to  day- 
through  long,  weary  months  against  constant  and  at 
times  terrible  suffering,  and  his  cheerful  diligence 
and  resolute  perseverance  with  his  task  amid  such 
extreme  bodily  distress  deserve  to  be  called  heroic. 
The  other  deaths  in  the  mission  had  been  sudden, 
and  distincti}'  traceable  to  the  climate.  This  was  a 
thorough  breakdown  of  the  system  prolonged  through 
a  whole  year,  and  the  seeds  of  it  had  been  sown  in 
South  Africa  long  before.  But  undoubtedly  the  toil, 
exposure,  and  poor  diet  had  had  much  to  do  in 
hastening  the  fatal  result.  In  our  grief  we  could 
scarcely  help  asking,  Ought  we  to  go  on  with  such  a 
mission  ?  Yet  could  we  ever  consent  to  drop  a  work 
for  which  these  precious  lives  had  been  sacrificed  ? 
What  would  they  have  said  ?  What  would  they  say 
if  they  could  speak  to  us  still  ?  What  did  experience 
suggest  ? 

We  knew  that  for  twenty  years  the  Church  i\Iis- 
sionary  Society  had  nothing  but  trial  and  discourage- 
ment in  connexion  with  their  Sierra  Leone  mission. 
The  cultivation  of  lands  formerly  overspread  with 
jungle  has  made  the  locality  less  fatal  than  it  used 
to  be,  but  in  the  course  of  the  first  twenty  years  of 
the  mission  no  fewer  than  fifty-three  missionaries  or 
missionaries'  wives  died  at  their  post.  In  1S23  five 
missionaries  went  out,  and  four  died  within  six 
months.  In  1825  six  went  out,  and  two  fell  within 
four  months  of  their  landing  in  Africa.  The  next 
year  three  more  went  forth,  two  of  whom  died  within 


29S  DEATH   OF  MARY  KICI/AKDS. 

six  months,  and  so  on  ;  )xt  there  never  was  wanting 
a  constant  supply  of  willing  labourers.  And  what  is 
iioiu  the  result  of  this  heavy  sacrifice  ?  Out  of  the 
present  population  of  Sierra  Leone,  numbering  about 
37,000  souls,  32,000  are  professing  Christians.  The 
mission  has  developed  into  a  self-sustaining  native 
Church,  and  the  society's  work  in  connexion  with 
Sierra  Leone  is  now  almost  confined  to  the  main- 
tenance of  educational  establishments  for  providing 
native  agents,  both  male  and  female,  for  the  colony 
and  other  African  mission  fields.  During  the  last 
thirty-three  years  Sierra  Leone  has  supplied  fifty 
educated  native  pastors  for  work  in  West  Africa,  a 
large  proportion  of  whom  have  served  in  other 
mission  fields  ;  on  the  Yoruba  and  on  the  Niger. 

If  a  similar  result  were  to  be  secured  on  the  Congo, 
it  looked  as  if  a  similar  price  would  have  to  be  paid 
for  it !  For  still  further  "  death  news  "  were  to  reach 
us  ere  the  year  was  over !  While  the  vessel  that  bore 
Mr.  McCall  from  Banana  was  slowly  making  its  way 
to  Madeira,  sickness  even  unto  death  had  invaded 
the  station  at  Banza  Manteka,  and  carried  away 
the  beloved  wife  whose  presence  made  that  house  a 
home.  The  devoted  Mary  Richards  had  been  called 
to  receive  her  reward !  She  departed  to  be  with 
Christ  a  fortnight  before  Adam  McCall,  though  we 
did  not  hear  of  her  removal  till  long  after,  as  the 
news  had  to  come  down  from  the  interior,  and  there 
was  then  no  telegraph  line  to  the  Congo. 

We  felt  this  loss  almost  as  that  of  one  of  our 
own  family,  of  which,  for  many  years,  Mrs.  Richards 


MARY    RICHARDS. 


indeed  formed  part.  \Vc  remembered  the  day  when 
first  she  called  on  us,  a  young  widow  who  had  lost 
also  her  only  child,  and  who  longed  to  devote  the 
remainder  of  her  days  to  the  rescue  of  the  perishing 
among  the  heathen.  With  a  modest,  dignified  hu- 
mility, which  was  very  characteristic  of  her,  the 
stranger  introduced  herself  by  saying  that  she  under- 
stood we  had  much  to  do  with  missions,  and  that  she 

wished  to  offer  her  services,  "  not  as  a  missionary,   I 

299 


300    ''SOME   PART,    ...     I  1)0  NOT  CARE    WHAT:' 

do  not  think  myself  qualified  for  such  an  honourable 
post,  but  as  a  missionary's  nurse  or  helper.  Perhaps 
some  youuLj  missionar)'  A\ife  and  mother  mi^^ht  be 
^fjad  of  my  assistance,  and  I  wcnild  not  care  what  I 
did,  so  that  I  mii;ht  take  some  j^art  in  s[)readin^^  the 
knowledj^e  of  Christ  amon^  the  heathen." 

I'uller  accjuaintance  proved  that  our  visitor  had 
many  \aluablc  qualities,  both  natural  and  acquired, 
as  well  as  a  remarkably  patient,  cheerful  disposition, 
much  \aried  skill,  and  great  industr)-. 

There  being  no  immediate  call  for  her  in  the 
mission  field,  she  became  housekeeper  to  the  In- 
stitute, and  afterwards  took  a  course  of  hospital 
training.  She  won  the  respect  and  affection  of  all 
who  knew  her,  and  we  had  repeated  experience  of 
her  kindness  and  skill  in  severe  illnesses,  some  of 
which  ended  fatall}\  She  was  indeed  such  a  help 
and  comfort  to  all  around  her,  that  we  were  not 
surprised  when  Mr.  Richards  sought  her  as  the  com- 
panion of  his  missionary  career  in  Africa.  We  felt 
it  however  a  duty  to  lay  before  her  fully  what  it 
meant  to  join  such  a  mission,  and  warned  her  that 
she  might  probably  lose  her  life  in  doing  so.  She 
quite  understood  the  risk,  and  replied  :  "  But,  you 
know,  I  might  be  the  means  of  saving  his  life  and 
the  lives  of  others.  It  is  just  the  opening  I  have 
long  desired.  It  will  take  me  among  the  heathen, 
where  I  can  help  both  them  and  the  missionaries." 
What  could  we  say?  They  were  married,  and  I\Ir. 
Richards  started  next  day  for  the  Congo.  She  fol- 
lowed a  year  later,  when  he  had  prepared  a  station 


BEREAVEMENT  OF  MR.   RICHARDS. 


to  receive  her.  She  went  out  with  Mr.  McCall's 
party;  reached  Africa  in  /\pril,  1880,  and  pas.sed 
thence  to  paradise  with  Christ  in  Nineniber,  188 1. 

To  the  husband  this  loss  was  of  course  terrible, 
and  to  the  mission  scarcely  less  so ;  for  it  was  evident 
from  her  short  life  among  the  heathen,  that  Mary 
Richards  was  as  much  a  missionary  as  any  one,  man 
or  woman,  who  had  left  our  shores  for  Congoland. 
She  had  in  a  pre-eminent  degree  the  qualities  which 
every  missionary  requires,  loving  tact  and  longsuffer- 
ing  patience,  with  true  spiritualit}'  of  mind. 

Her  poor  husband  in  the  letter  announcing  his 
bitter  berea\-cment  wrote  : 

I  never  sat  down  to  write  under  such  difficulty  before  ;  my  heart  is 
nearly  broken,  my  mind  reels,  my  eyes  are  full  of  tears,  and  I  cannot 
help  trembling  !  You  will  have  heard  before  you  get  this  that  I  have 
lost  my  dear  wife.  I  could  not  write  by  last  mail,  but  brethren  \Yhite 
and  Clarke  wrote  to  you  for  me. 

I  do  not  yet  see  what  He  wishes  me  to  learn  by  this  lesson,  or  why  lie 
has  withdrawn  my  loved  one.  She  was  a  help  to  me  in  every  way, 
in  my  spiritual  life  and  in  my  missionary  work.  I  should  not  have 
ventured  to  preach  to  the  people  as  early  as  I  did,  if  she  had  not  urged 
me  to  do  so.  I  did  not  think  I  was  strong  enough  in  the  language, 
till  she  prompted  and  pressed  me  to  try.  She  often  regretted  she  could 
not  do  more  real  missionary  work  herself,  but  she  had  little  time  for 
going  to  the  towns,  and  she  had  so  much  to  do  at  the  station.  How 
she  managed  to  accomplish  all  she  did  I  cannot  tell.  Yet  she  never 
seemed  overdone  or  hurried.  She  felt  some  work  too  much  for  her 
strength,  and  was  disappointed  when  the  boy  we  had  lioped  for  did 
not  come,  as  she  had  counted  on  his  relieving  her.  She  would  never  let 
me  help  her  in  these  things,  though  she  had  to  do  with  her  own  hands 
all  the  house  work,  washing,  cooking,  mending,  making,  etc.,  as  well 
as  attending  to  the  native  medical  mission — very  trying  work — and 
to  me  in  my  fevers.  The  station  is  not  small,  and  she  kept  it  in 
beautiful  order,  and  we  enjoyed  the  comfort  which  resulted.  I  can 
reckon  up  nearly  thirty  suits  of  clothes  she  made,  besides  coats,   caps, 


302  WORTH  OF  A   MISSIO.VARY'S    WIFE. 

lieil  fiiriiilurc,  bed  curtains,  etc.  The  siirger)'  used  to  take  her  nearly 
all  the  niuininj,',  for  she  spared  no  trouble  in  attending  to  the  natives, 
though  it  was  often  sickening  work.  She  cured  many  ulcers  and  sores 
of  the  worst  tyjie. 

The  natives  love<l  her,  after  their  fashion.  When  she  was  ill  the 
people  came  every  morning  to  in<piirc  how  she  was.  She  did  every- 
thing for  them  so  gently  and  cheerfully.  She  wanted  me  very  much 
to  build  a  schoolhouse  for  them  in  the  village,  so  that  she  could  go  out 
and  try  to  gather  the  children,  and  teach  them,  anil  attend  to  their 
sickness.  She  never  seemed  to  think  of  herself,  though  always  doing 
so  much  for  others,  including  the  little  black  orphan  baby  which  she 
had  taken  to  clothe  and  care  for.     What  are  we  to  do  with  him  now  ? 

And  not  only  did  my  dear  wife  help  in  all  these  ways,  but  her  sound 
judgment  and  experience  often  kept  me  from  going  wrong.  I  could 
always  rely  on  her  advice  in  difficult  matters,  and  depend  on  her  skill 
as  well  as  kindness  in  sickness.  She  knew  just  what  medicine  to  give, 
and  what  food.  She  liked  this  place  and  the  work  here  much,  and 
(lid  all  she  could  to  help  I     .     .     . 

The  different  missionaries  who  had  visited  Banza 
Manteka  all  wrote  in  the  same  strain,  it  was  "  the 
nicest  place  on  the  river."  "  She  was  indeed  a  friend 
to  me  ;  no  sooner  did  she  know  of  my  wanting  an)-- 
thing  she  possessed  than  the  lack  was  supplied." 
"  It  seemed  like  entering  a  home  to  come  here  ;  you 
can  hardly  realize  in  England  the  blessed  influence 
exerted  by  the  presence  of  a  pure,  godl)',  earnest 
woman." 

"  Brother  Richards  is  very  grief-stricken.  He  has 
lost  a  good  and  faithful  wife,  and  I  have  lost  a  friend 
I  much  valued.  I  never  knew  a  more  unselfish 
person,  or  saw  one  who  tried  so  much  to  make  all 
about  her  happy,  and  who  made  the  grief  and  pain  of 
others  her  own.  She  once  said  to  me,  '  1  should  be 
so  glad  if  I  could  have  Henry's  fevers  for  him.'  I 
do  believe  she  would  willingl)'ha\'e  taken  them.    How 


''SHE  HATH  DONE    WHAT  SHE   COULD."        303 

tcnderl}'  she  treated  the  poor  natives  when  the}-  came 
to  get  their  ulcers  dressed  !  Well,  she  rests  from  her 
labours,  and  her  works  do  follow  her." 

Did  not  the  blessed  Master  say  of  dear  Mar}' 
Richards  what  He  said  of  old  of  another  Mary, 
"  She  hath  done  what  she  could  "  ?  and  do  we  not 
right  to  tell  it  for  a  memorial  of  her,  that,  like  still 
another  Mar}',  she  bestowed  much  labour  on  the 
Lord's  servants,  and  was  by  grace  emphatically  "a 
succourer  of  man}-."  Oh,  when  we  contrast  her  life 
with  that  of  the  woman  who  lives  to  and  for  herself, 
— lives  in  pleasure,  and  is  dead  while  she  lives, — lives 
so  that  no  one  misses  her  service  or  her  love  when 
she  dies,  we  can  but  feel  how  far  better  to  find  a 
grave  in  an  African  forest,  and  be  followed  b}'  such 
loving  regrets  as  these  ! 

Yet  in  this  case  again  there  was  great  room  for 
regret  that  better  precautions  had  not  been  taken  to 
preserve  this  precious  life.  Mrs.  Richards  had  worked 
too  hard  in  many  ways,  for  lack  of  sufficient  domestic 
help  ;  and  when  she  was  taken  ill,  quinine,  that  in- 
dispensable specific  against  fever,  ran  short,  as  well  as 
certain  other  needful  remedies.  Humanly  speaking, 
more  help  beforehand  by  lightening  labour  would  have 
averted  the  illness,  and  better  medical  treatment  at 
the  time  might  have  saved  life.  Her  end  was  perfect 
peace  and  her  last  thought  to  comfort  him  she  was 
leaving.  "  Blessed  are  the  dead  which  die  in  the 
Lord  ! "     "  She  is  not  dead,  but  sleepeth  !  " 

The  friends  of  the  mission  were  sorely  tried  at  this 
fresh  proof  of  the  danger  of  the  climate  of  the  Congo 


304  //.//''    COD   SlIU-J-   JJJK    iJUOKt 

gorge  to  Europeans  of  both  sexes.  It  was  evident 
that  the  only  hope  for  these  regions  lay  in  native 
evangeUsts.  ]^iit  where  were  they  to  be  found?  W'c 
communicated  with  some  of  the  coloured  uni\ersitics 
in  tlie  United  States,  Ijut  tlicy  could  give  us  no  help  ; 
all  their  available  graduates  were  absorbed  by  the 
work  among  the  rcccnth'  emancipated  negroes  of 
the  Southern  States.  Until  lads  trained  in  our  own 
mission  were  available,  we  resolved  to  tr)-  whether 
coloured  Christians  from  the  West  Indies  or  from 
Sierra  Leone  would  stand  the  climate  any  better. 
Experience  proved  that  they  did  not.  Such,  though 
coloured  Africans,  are  not  "  native "  agents.  They 
have  been  accustomed  to  the  comforts  of  civilization 
almost  as  much  as  white  men.  They  are  no  better 
acquainted  with  the  Congo  dialects  than  white  men, 
and  as  a  rule  they  have  less  courage  and  pluck. 

The  fact  that  five  deaths  had  taken  place  in  con- 
nexion with  the  mission  in  four  years  naturally 
caused  much  serious  thought  and  conference  to  the 
friends  of  the  mission.  Some  were  even  led  to  ques- 
tion the  propriety  of  continuing  it.  They  asked.  Had 
not  God  Himself  shut  the  door?  Ought  we  not  to 
labour  where  difficulties  were  less  and  where  the 
workers  could  labour  longer  ? 

It  is  needless  to  say  that  we  prayerfull}'  pondered 
these  and  similar  questions,  and  resolved  to  take 
various  additional  precautions  for  the  preservation  of 
life  and  health  ;  but  we  could  not  see  in  what  had 
happened,  either  in  our  own  or  in  the  sister  mission 
on  the  Congo,  or  in  other  Central   African   missions, 


DANGER  NO  EXCUSE  FOR  DISOBEDIENCE.       305 


whicli  had  had  similar  experiences,  any  argument  for 
the  abandonment  of  the  missions,  and  the  cessation  of 
effort  to  evangelize  the  interior  of  the  Dark  Continent. 

The  fact  that  obedience  to  a  command  of  Christ 
involves  danger  and  death  is  surely  no  ground  for 
disobedience,  and  the  command, "  Go  ye  into  all  the 
world,"  is  addressed  to  the  Church  in  all  its  successive 
generations,  as  is  proved  by  the  limit  assigned  to  the 
promise  connected  with  it,  "  Lo,  I  am  with  you  alway, 
even  nnto  the  end  of  the  agel' 

Obedience  to  the  Father's  will  involved  self-sacrifice 
on  the  part  of  Christ.  Shall  His  disciples  shrink  back 
from  obedience  to  His  will,  because  it  must  be  ren- 
dered at  similar  risk  ?  Did  not  the  Lord  foretell  to 
His  first  ambassadors  that  they  must  expect  no  easier 
path  than  His  own,  forewarning  them  that  the  servant 
is  not  greater  than  his  Lord,  neither  he  that  is  sent 
greater  than  He  that  had  sent  him  ?  Did  not  the 
Apostle  Paul  look  forward  to  bonds,  prison,  and  mar- 
tyrdom, and  say,  "  None  of  these  things  move  me, 
neither  count  I  my  life  dear  unto  myself,  so  that  I 
might  finish  my  course  with  joy,  and  the  ministry, 
which  I  have  received  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  to  testify  the 
gospel  of  the  grace  of  God  "  ?  Does  not  the  same 
Holy  Spirit  produce  in  the  hearts  of  Christians  now 
the  same  willingness  to  suffer  and  die  for  the  gospel's 
sake  ?  And  is  there  not  the  same  and  even  greater 
need  of  the  words  of  eternal  life  among  the  degraded 
and  miserable  millions  of  the  Dark  Continent?  On 
what  ground  and  by  what  authority  dare  we  discour- 
age volunteers,  willing  and  anxious  to  close  up   the 

C.  \.  20 


3c6  OUR   MARCHING   ORDERS. 

ranks  and  be  baptized  for  the  dead  ?  Arc  not  the 
early  annals  of  many  a  now  flourishing  mission  and 
nati\c  Church  one  tissue  of  deaths  and  disappoint- 
ments, more  dismal  and  discoura<^in<^  by  far  than  any 
that  we  have  yet  had  to  record?  Is  it  possible  that 
Africa  can  ever  be  lifted  from  her  long-lasting  depth 
of  degradation  without  self-sacrifice?  And  is  not  the 
redemption  of  a  lost  continent  worth  it  ? 

The  Duke  of  Wellington  said  to  a  chaplain  who 
was  questioning  the  wisdom  of  missionary  enterprise, 
"  Look  to  your  marching  orders,  sir !  A  soldier's 
business  is  simply  to  obey."  We  saw  no  alternative 
but  to  go  forward  with  the  Congo  Mission  as  long 
as  there  were  devoted  men  and  women  willing  and 
anxious  to  lay  down  their  lives  for  Christ's  sake  in 
Africa.  At  the  same  time  wc  painfully  felt  the 
difficulty. 

We  had  never  taken  the  position  of  a  society  em- 
ploying salaried  agents,  and  sending  them  out  as  its 
senants  to  the  Congo.  Such  a  relation  of  the  mis- 
sionaries to  their  helpers  at  home  we  do  not  believe 
to  be  in  principle  a  jight  one.  If  suitable  men  and 
women,  conscious  of  a  call  from  God  to  the  work,  said, 
"  We  desire  to  go"  then  we  felt  free  to  help  them  to 
the  extent  of  our  ability.  But  the  responsibility  was 
theirs,  not  ours.  ]Vc  could  not  send  men  to  suffer 
and  die !  It  was  for  the  Master  to  send  His  servants, 
and  they  must  go  of  their  own  voluntar}'  will.  Our 
part  was  to  help  them  all  we  could  with  prayer  and 
sympathy  and  hard  work  at  home,  and  to  send  them 
such  resources  as  seemed  indispensable. 


CHAPTER   VI. 

REINFORCEMENTS  AND  FIRSTFRUITS 
IN  1882. 

At  the  opening  of  1SS2  therefore  we  had  no  thought 
of  abandoning  the  mission,  but  were  feeling  some- 
what tried  and  discouraged.  It  had  lost  one  who 
was  in  some  senses  a  leader,  though  less  experienced 
in  Congo  life  than  the  missionaries  of  longer  standing. 
It  was  evident  that  large  reinforcements  would  again 
be  required  before  we  could  hope  to  establish  our- 
selves at  the  Pool,  much  less  at  the  equator — the 
point  at  which  we  were  aiming.  Whence  would  the 
men,  the  rare  men  fit  for  this  arduous  w'ork,  come, 
and  whence  the  means  for  such  another  party  as  had 
gone  out  in  each  of  the  two  previous  years?  If  it 
were  the  will  of  God  that  the  effort  should  be  re- 
peated, He  would  send  both  the  men  and  the  means. 
We  could  only  wait  and  pra)-. 

Early  in  the  year  we  received  a  letter  from  a  young 
Christian  medical  man,  Dr.  A.  Sims,  saying  that  he 
was  desirous  of  devoting  his  life  to  the  service  of 
Christ  as  a  medical  missionary,  and  seeking  counsel. 
He  did  not  volunteer  for  the  Congo,  nor  did  we  at 
that  time  think  of  seeking  such  help  as  he  could  ren- 
der.    He  came  and  spent  a  week  with  us,  and  became 

3C7 


DR.    A     SIMS,    OF    LEOPOLDVILLE. 

Sailed  iur  the  Congo  IMay  ioth,  1SS2 


,308 


DK.    SIMS    VISITS    HAM  LEY  HOUSE.  309 

(as  indeed  our  visitors  could  scarcely  help  becoming) 

deep!}'  interested  in  the  Congo  Mission.  Its  very- 
sorrows,  trials,  and  difficulties  seemed  to  draw  his 
heart  to  it.  He  approved  its  principles,  sympathised 
with  its  spirit,  and  especially  with  its  objects  and 
modus  ope7'andi. 

He  was  a  graduate  of  Aberdeen,  and  had  already 
had  considerable  experience  both  in  general  practice 
and  in  medical  missions.  He  had  taken  charge  in 
the  absence  of  Dr.  Crabbe  of  the  Birmingham  medi- 
cal mission,  one  of  the  best  organized  in  England. 
He  was  a  man  of  real  practical  piet}',  of  studious  and 
obsen-ant  habits,  and  of  scientific  tastes  and  attain- 
ments. His  health  was  sound,  though  his  appearance 
was  an}'thing  but  robust;  }'et  his  temperament  ap- 
peared to  be,  and  has,  thank  God  !  proved  to  be,  the 
right  one  for  Central  Africa,  where  he  is  still  living 
and  labouring. 

He  studied  eagerly  the  annals  of  the  Congo 
Mission,  and  we  willingly  laid  before  him  all  the 
letters  and  papers  bearing  on  the  subject,  including 
the  graphic  diary  of  the  late  leader  of  the  mission, 
which  gives  a  minute  history  of  each  day's  occupa- 
tions, from  the  time  he  sailed  from  Pl}-mouth  in  the 
Vanguard,  full  of  health  and  strength,  hope  and 
courage,  in  ]\Iarch,  1880,  up  to  the  time  when  he 
landed  in  a  dying  condition  on  the  island  of  Madeira, 
in  November,  1881. 

\A'hile  Dr.  Sims  was  thus  considering  the  mission, 
we  were  considering  him  !  We  perceived  that  in 
some  respects  he  could  not  be  a  successor  to  the  late 


310  FKESH   VOLUNTEERS  FOR    THE    WORK. 


lamented  ;\(lain  McCall,  never  ha\in.L,f  had  his 
experience  of  African  travel,  or  of  rou^hin<(  it  in  un- 
civilized countries.  He  was  not  accustomed  to  com- 
mand men,  or  to  be  cast  on  his  own  resources  among 
savages.  He  could  not  occupy  the  post  so  sadly  and 
unexpectedly  rendered  vacant  ;  but  could  he  not  fill 
another  as  important?  Did  not  the  mission  need  just 
such  help  as  he  cou id  gwe?  Might  not  God,  who  sup- 
plies all  our  need,  of  men  as  well  as  means,  be  sending 
us  in  him  the  very  agent  required  by  the  enterprise  at 
this  stage  of  its  history  ?  The  more  we  thought  of  it, 
and  the  more  we  saw  of  Dr.  Sims,  the  more  we  felt 
led  to  think  this  was  the  case;  and  when, — after  doing 
all  we  could  to  discourage  him  from  making  a  definite 
offer  of  his  ser\'ices,  by  dwelling  at  length  on  the  late 
difficulties,  dangers,  and  deaths  in  the  mission,  we 
completely  failed  to  do  so  and  found  onl}'  an  oppo- 
site effect  produced, — we  concluded  that  the  matter 
was  of  the  Lord.  After  praj-erful  consideration  Dr. 
Sims  expressed  to  us  his  hearty  desire  to  conse- 
crate his  life  to  the  evangelization  of  the  Congo  valley. 
He  consulted  his  friends,  and  we  conferred  with  our 
council  ;  and  at  the  beginning  of  February  he  was 
accepted  as  medical  missionary  in  connexion  with  the 
Livingstone  Inland  Mission. 

Several  others  came  forward,  volunteering  to  ac- 
company Dr.  Sims. 

Mr.  William  Appel,  an  active,  intelligent,  and  very 
earnest  young  brother,  who  had  spent  four  years  in 
Germany  and  acquired  some  scientific  knowledge  in 
various  branches,  had  his  heart  strongly  set  on  joining 


THE  NEW  PARTY  OF  NIXE. 


the  mission.  We  thought  him  too  young,  but  he 
urged  so  many  good  reasons  \\\\\  he  should  go  at 
that  time  especially,  that  the  council  consented  to 
accept  his  services.  He  was  a  surveyor  among  other 
things,  and  took  a  course  of  special  instructions  at 
the  Ro}'al  Geographical  Society's  house.  He  went 
out  pro\-ided  with  valuable  instruments,  and  we  hoped 
he  would  be  able  to  map  the  country  in  which  the 
stations  were  planted,  as  no  correct  map  was  then 
in  existence.  He  was  to  be  assistant  to  Dr.  Sims, 
and  to  study  medicine  under  him,  so  as  to  be  able 
to  help  in  the  medical  mission.  Two  other  brethren, 
Messrs.  Liley  and  Westlind,  accompanied  them,  the 
latter  a  Swede,  who  was  singularly  gifted  as  a 
linguist,  and  who  was  chosen  to  replace  I\Ir.  Charles 
Engval,  whose  health  had  obliged  him  to  return  home, 
by  the  Swedish  Missionary  Association,  which  was 
at  that  time  sending  out  its  agents  through  our 
mission,  and  thus  gaining  acquaintance  with  the 
country  before  establishing  a  mission  of  its  own. 

They  were  accompanied  by  two  sisters,  Mrs.  Smith 
going  to  join  her  husband,  and  INIiss  Spearing,^  a  de- 
voted middle-aged  Christian,  who  developed  singular 
missionary  talent  in  several  directions — in  learning 
the  language,  managing  the  natives,  and  nursing  the 
sick.  Three  coloured  helpers  were  also  to  go  out, 
as  helpers  and  servants  to  the  missionaries,  men 
whose  hearts  however  were  in  the  work  for  the 
Saviour's  sake,  and  who  would,  it  was  hoped,  develop 

*  .See  portrait  on  p.  315. 


312 


DU'I'JCUJ.riES  OF  TRANSPORT. 


into  native  agents.  The  passage  and  outfit  expenses 
of  such  a  large  addition  to  the  staff"  in  Africa  in- 
volved of  course  a  heavy  outla)',  and  large  demands 
were  cominLT  in  also  from  the  different  stations.     Fresh 


I.IIJi  ---I  \  I      \  II  W     111      -lAM.I.V    i'liDl. 


Kroo-boys  were  required  for  the  advance  to  Stanley 
Pool,  and  the  transport  of  goods  at  that  time  cost 
about  ^50  a  ton  from  London  to  Stanley  Pool. 
How  often  we  longed  that  the  nati\c  elephant  could 


'DO  SEND  PLENTY  TEACHERS   TO   CONGO.'      313 


only  be  trained,  like  his  Indian  relative,  to  act  as  a 
beast  of  burden  !  The  day  will  yet  come  in  all 
probability  when  this  feat  will  be  accomplished.  An 
elephant  carries  1,500  to  1,700  lbs.  weight  with  ease. 
A  man  fin.ds  it  as  much  as  he  can  do  to  carr}-  sixt}- 1 

Kind  friends  in  many  parts  of  the  countr}'  helped 
to  start  this  Congo  part}'  of  1882.  Accompanied  by 
Dr.  Sims  and  two  of  the  Congo  bo}-s,  we  visited 
Pl}'mouth  and  Torquay,  Bath  and  Bristol,  Bourne- 
mouth, Birmingham,  and  other  places.  The  hearty 
sympathy  everywhere  accorded  greatl)'  cheered  and 
encouraged  the  dear  missionaries,  and  profoundly 
impressed  the  lads  from  the  Congo. 

We  explained  to  the  lads  our  object  in  holding 
these  meetings,  that  it  \\as  to  tell  friends  about  their 
country,  and  how  much  they  needed  to  learn  about 
the  love  of  God,  and  to  love  one  another,  and  not 
kill  and  steal  and  lie  and  do  wrong,  so  that  the 
friends  might  help  to  send  missionaries  to  them. 
This  interested  them  greatl}',  and  made  them  anxious 
to  take  part  in  the  meetings.  "  I  no  can  speak  Eng- 
lish good,  but  in  my  language  I  will  sa}',  '  Please  do 
send  plenty  teachers  to  Congo,' "  said  one  of  the 
boys.  And  he  did  so,  and  though  not  without  an 
evident  effort  made  a  little  speech,  and  read  aloud 
the  Lord's  Prayer  in  the  hearing  of  hundreds. 

A  farewell  meeting,  at  which  our  dear  and  \ener- 
able  friend  Lord  Shaftesbur}'  presided,  was  held  at 
the  Town  Hall  at  Kensington,  on  Monday,  the  3rd 
of  April  ;  and  we  had  an  all-da}^  meeting  for  special 
prayer  for  Africa,  and  to  take  leave  of  the  outgoing 


314        MEN,    MONEY,   SYMPATHY,   AND  PRAYER. 


band,  at  ilailcy  House,  on  the  2ist.  On  the  27th 
Messrs.  Lile)-,  Banks,  and  Westlind  sailed  by  the 
Ben^iela,  and  on  the  loth  of  May  Dr.  Sims  and  the 
rest  of  the  party  followed  b)-  the  Angola. 

When,  at  the  beginning  of  May,  all  the  heavy  bills 
for  the  expedition  were  collected  and  added  together, 
the  sum  total  was  almost  met  by  the  sum  in  the 
Congo  Mission  Fund.  £^^,0"]%  had  been  needed  and 
expended  on  its  behalf,  and  ^3,004  had  been  sent  in  ! 
So  that  once  more  we  had  to  praise  God  for  His 
faithfulness  to  the  promises  of  His  word,  and  set  our 
seal  to  the  Saviour's  sweet  assurance,  "your  heavenly 
Father  knoweth  that  ye  have  need  of  these  things." 

One  kind  friend  undertook  the  support  of  the 
medical  mission  at  Stanley'  Pool ;  another  supplied 
funds  for  the  erection  and  furnishing  of  the  first 
mission  hospital  in  Congo.  Man}'  gave  the  i."5 
needed  to  ransom  a  child.  Some  dear  little  ones 
at  Liverpool,  who  had  "Launda"  to  breakfast  with 
them  one  morning,  resoKed  to  invest  their  little 
savings  for  the  ransom  of  such  another  child.  A 
Scotch  family  sent  ^^"20  "  for  the  redemption  of  four 
children — two  boys  and  two  girls."  The  Swedish 
friends  had  sent  ^100  and  two  missionaries  worth 
far  more  than  money!  Three  members  of  the  council 
had  each  given  ;^ioo.  Man\-  Sunday-schools  had 
sent  their  willing  contributions,  and  in  all  some 
five  hundred  gifts  of  one  kind  or  other  helped  to 
start  our  third  large  party  for  the  Dark  Continent. 
Thousands  of  prayers  followed  them,  and  much  loving 
sympath}'. 


MISS    SPEARING. 

Sailed  for  the  Congo,  May,  1SS2. 
(5-^.'/.  311.) 

It  was  in  the  summer  of  this  year,  1882,  that  we 
had  the  joy  of  witnessing  the  baptism  of  the  first- 
fruits  to  Christ  from  Congo,  N'dambi  and  Pukamoni, 
or,  as  they  were  named  afterwards,  Francis  and 
Robert  Walker. 

These  two  dear  lads  had  been  for  some  time  under 
instruction   at  Palabala   Station   before  they  accom- 


3i6     "H7JAJ-  niNDERETIl  ME    TO  BE  BAPTIZED r 

panied  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Craven  to  England  in  the 
summer  of  1881.  Since  that  time  we  had  been  in 
daily  intercourse  with  them,  and  had  learned  to  love 
and  esteem  them. 

The  nature  of  their  occupation,  day  by  day — 
furnishing  the  materials  for  a  stud)'  of  the  Congo 
language,  the  native  equivalents  for  English  phrases 
— had  of  course  thrown  them  much  into  the  company- 
of  Mr.  Guinness,  Mr.  Craven,  and  others,  who  had 
thus  come  to  know  their  minds  and  characters  pretty 
thoroughly.  It  had  for  months  been  evident  that 
their  hearts  were  right  with  God,  and  that  reverence 
for  God  and  faith  in  Christ  had  sprung  up  within 
them.  Their  conduct  had  been  good  and  satisfac- 
tory in  ever)'  wa)-.  Their  intelligence,  perseverance, 
industr}-,  and  amiabilit}-,  coupled  with  their  love  of 
reading  and  praj-er,  were  remarkable. 

Mental  effort  was  of  course  not  eas}'  to  lads  so 
recently  rescued  from  savager}-.  Yet  they  studied 
and  toiled  at  literary  work  for  six  and  eight  hours 
a  day,  and  often  more,  without  impatience,  and  they 
took  a  vivid  interest  in  the  work  of  translation,  or 
rather  of  telling  the  stories  of  the  Old  and  New 
Testament  in  their  own  tongue,  for  regular  transla- 
tion was  not  then  attempted.  Their  earnest  desire 
to  please  God  was  very  marked.  Hence,  when  they 
expressed  the  wish  to  be  baptized  as  Christian  dis- 
ciples, we  felt  that  there  was  no  ground  to  refuse 
their  request,  but  quite  the  reverse. 

On  the  same  da)'  on  \\hich,  after  months  of 
patient  toil,  Mr.  Guiiniess  revised  the  last  sheets  of 


THE  FIRSTFRUITS  OF  THE  MISSION.  317 


his  grammar  of  the  Congo  hmguage  and  sent  it  to 
press — July  31st,  1882 — he  had  the  joy  of  baptizing 
these  two  dear  lads  in  the  East  London  Tabernacle 
of  our  friend  the  Rev.  Archibald  Brown.  The  occa- 
sion was  one  of  intense  interest  to  all  our  party. 

T\\Q:  firstfruits  of  the  mission  !  And,  "gathered  in 
time  or  eternity,  what,  oh  what,  should  tJie  harvest 
be  ? "  Faith  could  look  forward  and  see  scores, 
hundreds,  nay,  why  not  thousands  and  millions  of 
such, — Ethiopia's  dark  sons, — pressing  into  the  king- 
dom !  Firstfruits  !  Love  looked  back  and  remem- 
bered the  men  and  women  who  had  gone  forth 
weeping,  bearing  precious  seed,  and  who  had  endured 
so  much  hardness  in  the  endeavour  to  break  up  the 
fallow  ground  for  the  sowing  of  that  seed.  They 
were  not  visibly  present  with  us,  to  rejoice  in  the 
fruit  of  their  labours !  But  v.ho  should  say  their 
spirits  were  not  in  full  sympathy  with  ours?  Wliat 
would  not  dear  Telford,  ]McKergow,  McCall,  and 
Mary  Richards  have  given  to  see  that  sight  ?  What 
did  they  not  give  that  that  sight  might  be  seen  ? 
All  they  had,  all  they  could  give — themselves  ! 

These  lads  have  continued  faithful,  and  been  useful 
in  the  mission  ever  since.  They  returned  to  Africa 
with  ]\Ir.  and  Mrs.  Craven,  who  were  quite  recruited 
in  health,  at  the  close  of  the  year ;  while  Mr.  Harvey, 
who  had  been  three  years  nearly  on  the  Congo, 
was  invalided  home  in  the  autumn,  and  also  Mr. 
Billinjzton. 


CHAPTER   VII. 
FJiOGJiESS  IN  AFRICA   IN  1882. 

It  had  been  a  great  question  with  many  which  side 
of  the  Congo,  north  or  south,  offered  the  best  route 
to  Stanley  Pool  and  the  upper  river.  Stanley  had 
selected  the  north,  but  it  had  proved  difficult.  We 
had  so  far  stuck  to  the  south  side  ;  but  before  fixing 
on  sites  for  any  further  stations,  and  especially  before 
attempting  to  send  up  a  steamer  for  the  upper  river, 
we  wished  the  missionaries  carefully  to  examine  both 
sides. 

A  sufficient  quantity  of  goods  and  provisions  hav- 
ing been  by  this  time  collected  at  the  Bemba,  and  a 
good  gang  of  Kroo-boys  assembled,  Messrs.  Richards, 
Clarke,  and  Ingham  started  in  December  of  this  year 
and  went  up  to  the  Pool  by  the  north  side,  a  journey 
of  about  one  hundred  and  sixty  miles,  thirty  of  which 
they  travelled  over  the  road  cleared  by  Stanley  for 
his  wagons.  He  was  at  this  time  just  building  the 
station  of  Leopoldville,  on  the  south  shores  of  the 
Pool.  Our  party  were  anxious  to  see  and  consult 
with  him,  and  return  by  the  south  side.  But  a  sudden 
and    unaccountable    outbreak    of    warlike    hostility 


320  DIl-FlCULTIES   OF  THE  NORTH  liAXA'. 

among  the  people  at  Mfwa  prevented  their  crossing, 
and  though  they  fired  several  times,  they  did  not 
succeed  in  catching  the  attention  of  the  white  men 
opposite.  Their  conclusion  was  decidedly  a(^ainst 
this  northern  road  on  the  grounds  of  its  difficulty, 
and  the  great  scarcity  of  provisions,  which  would 
make  it  expensive  to  {c^i\  a  large  gang  of  Kroo-boys 
or  other  carriers. 

The  road  was  in  places  fairly  g(jod  and  easy  ;  in 
other  parts  extremely  difficult,  "  like  climbing  up  and 
down  a  church  tower" — alternate  ascents  and  descents 
of  800,  1,000,  or  1,200  feet,  and  once  even  of  1,800. 
Landslips  were  frequently  visible,  of  recent  occurrence, 
and  the  process  of  forming  fresh  valleys  could  almost 
be  seen  in  operation.  About  thirty  streams  and 
rivers  falling  into  the  Congo  were  crossed  in  the 
course  of  the  journey,  and  each  had  cut  for  itself  a 
channel  more  or  less  deep  through  the  higher  table- 
land at  the  sides  of  the  Congo.  Most  of  these  streams 
were  shallow  enough  to  be  fordable  Vvith  comparative 
ease,  though  it  would  sometimes  be  needful  to  ascend 
the  stream  for  some  distance  before  crossing.  Only 
five  were  impassable  without  canoes  ;  some  of  the 
others  were  crossed  by  natural  bridges  of  fallen  tim- 
ber, and  others  by  bridges  of  native  construction. 
Very  beautiful  at  times  are  the  mountain  torrents, 
pitching  over  their  rocky  beds.  One  Sunday,  when 
quietly  encamped  near  the  Lufu  River,  Mr.  Richards 
and  Mr.  Ingham  took  a  stroll  some  way  up  its  course, 
led  on  by  the  sound  of  an  unseen  cataract,  and  dis- 
covered a  beautiful   waterfall.     "  The  ri\-er  falls  in  a 


''FIRE!    IF   YOU   WILL."  321 


clear  leap  of  a  lumdred  feet.  The  trees  looked  as  if 
they  were  spreading  their  leafy  hands  over  the  fall 
in  wonder  at  its  beauty,  while  others  bent  right  for- 
ward as  if  awed  into  humility  b}^  its  grandeur.  It 
was  really  one  of  the  most  picturesque  sights  I  ever 
saw.  This  Lufu  River  is  one  of  the  best  sites  for  a 
mission  station  I  have  seen  in  Africa  :  plenty  of  people, 
plenty  of  land,  plenty  of  good  water  and  timber, 
plenty  of  water  power  for  a  saw-mill,  and  with  a 
splendid  view  of  the  Congo  rushing  down  just  above 
the  Ntombo  Mataka  falls." 

The  country  was  populous,  especially  on  the  road 
more  inland  from  the  river,  by  which  the  travellers 
returned  ;  and  the  people  were  found  as  a  rule 
friendly. 

Rudeness  and  opposition  were  experienced  from 
time  to  time,  but  none  of  a  serious  character  was 
encountered  save  at  the  Pool.  There  guns  were 
produced,  and  even  presented  at  close  quarters.  On 
one  such  occasion  Mr.  Richards  walked  right  up  to 
the  man,  and  baring  his  chest,  said,  "  Fire  !  if  you 
will."  The  man  dropped  his  gun  and  walked  off. 
At  one  place  Mr.  Ingham  speaks  of  "youngsters 
rushing  about  with  guns,  and  beating  themselves  on 
the  breast  after  the  manner  of  enraged  gorillas." 
But  no  harm  came  of  it !  On  many  occasions  the 
exhibition  of  the  power  of  a  rifle  or  of  a  revolver, 
and  of  the  speed  with  which  white  men  could  fire 
if  they  zvisJicd,  seemed  to  have  a  remarkably  sobering 
effect  on  unruly  mobs,  and  brotherhood  was  suddenly 
acknowledged  where   just    previousl)^  war  had    been 

C.  A.  21 


}22  Sr.lA'C/'/)'   OF  J-OOD. 


proclaimed.  Mr.  Richards  remarks,  "  Mi^ht  is  evcry- 
thing  with  an  African — 7'ig/it  nothing  ! "  The  mere 
possession  of  firearms  without  ever  using  them,  was 
consequently  of  occasional  service  to  the  party. 

When  asked  if  they  would  like  the  white  man  to 
come  and  live  among  them,  the  people  generally 
seemed  pleased  with  the  idea,  and  said,  "  Yes ! 
come  !  " 

"  May  wc  build  a  house  here?" 
"  Certain!)-  !    Build  awaj- !  build  away  !  " 
At  times  strange  superstitious  fears  were  expressed 
however,  and  it  was  evident  that  in  some  places  the 
absence  of  the  strangers  was  more  desired  than  their 
presence. 

The  languages  met  with  varied  a  little,  but  not  very 
materially,  from  that  in  use  at  Palabala  and  Man- 
teka.  Mr.  Richards  was  able  to  make  himself  under- 
stood all  the  way  to  the  Pool. 

The  greatest  difficulty  encountered  on  the  road 
arose  from  the  scarcity  of  food.  Everywhere  it  was 
dear,  and  in  some  places  unprocurable.  There  is  not 
much  cultivation  of  the  soil,  so  that  in  sojiic  parts  the 
people  looked  miserabl)'  fed,  and  their  children  sadly 
thin.  There  is  little  or  no  game,  and  fishing  seems 
the  principal  source  of  food  supply.  "  Near  Mbu  the 
people  laughed  at  our  offer  of  a  handkerchief  for  a 
fowl,  though  we  get  two  for  one  at  Manteka,  and  three 
at  Bemba.  Here  they  demanded  six  yards  of  cloth  !  " 
One  king  gave  the  party  a  goat,  but  before  it  was 
killed,  being  displeased  with  the  return  present,  he 
demanded    it  back.     Shortly  after  some  fowls  were 


A  PINEAPPLE  FOR  A   BEAD.  323 


bought,  and  the  purchasers  took  care  to  despatch  them 
at  once  !  But  if  meat  was  scarce  and  dear,  milk  not 
to  be  had,  and  onl)'  an  insufficient  quantit}'  of  grain, 
dessert  was  abundant.  J-)cautiful  pineapples  could  be 
bought  for  one  bead  each  !  The)^  grew  wild  on  e\'er}^ 
hillside,  strewed  the  very  path  in  places,  and  filled  the 
markets.  The  danger  was  that  the  Kroo-boys  would 
getd\-senter\'  from  eating  too  many.  What  a  revenue 
would  arise  to  Congo  if  its  superfluous  fruits  could 
only  be  sent  off  to  the  coast,  and  sold  in  London  and 
Paris  !  Not  till  the  impoverishing  effect  of  the  total 
absence  of  commerce  is  seen  and  felt,  is  its  position  as 
a  handmaid  of  civilization  fully  realized. 

The  north  side  route  being  thus  definitely  aban- 
doned, two  new  stations  were  this  }'ear  founded  in 
advance  on  the  southern  side  of  the  river,  the  sixth 
and  seventh  planted  by  the  mission. 

Messrs.  Clarke  and  Ingham  selected  the  site  for  the 
first  of  these  two,  Mukimbungu,  a  little  out  of  the 
direct  line  to  Stanley  Pool,  nearer  to  the  river.  This 
station  afterwards  became  the  centre  for  the  Swedish 
missionaries  connected  with  the  mission,  and  was  ulti- 
mately transferred  to  the  Swedish  Societ}-.  It  proved 
a  very  judiciously  selected  spot,  and  was  near  enough 
to  the  river  to  admit  of  work  on  the  opposite  side. 
Mr.  Clarke  wrote  of  several  encounters  with  herds  of 
elephants  on  this  journe}-.  These  animals  are  fre- 
quently met  with  in  this  part  of  the  countr}-,  and 
were  occasionally  shot  by  the  missionaries,  who 
though  they  did  not  go  out  of  their  way  or  waste  time 
and   strength  unnecessarily  for  the  sake  of  hunting, 


324        MUKIMBLWGU  AND   LUKUXGA   STA'J IONS. 


)ct  were  glad  at  times  to  secure  for  their  carriers  a 
supply  of  meat  by  the  use  of  their  guns,  as  well  as  to 
rid  the  natives  of  unwelcome  visitors  from  whom  their 
gardens  too  often  suffered  severely. 

Mukimbungu  Station  was  foinided  in  Fcbruar)', 
18S2,  among  a  friendly  people  who  pressed  the  tra- 
vellers to  tarry  in  their  midst.  As  the  plan  of  using 
the  river  and  the  north  shore  had  been  found  inexpe- 
dient, the  new  station  was  placed  so  nearly  opposite 
Bemba  that  the  stores  and  materials  accumulated 
there  could  be  easily  transferred  to  the  new  site. 
The  local  king  gave  a  large  and  fertile  tract  of  ground, 
and  liberty  to  cut  down  any  hard-wood  trees  in  his 
district  except  fruit  and  palm  trees.  He  .sent  his  men 
to  show  the  best  places  for  good  timber,  and  presented 
besides  a  fine  pig,  and  all  this  for  a  ''  dash "  or 
present  of  "  one  superior  bread  knife,  three  caps,  twelve 
yards  of  check  'domestic'  and  twelve  of  stripe,  twelve 
of  super  cloth  (or  calico),  and  one  shirt."  So  that  free- 
hold property  is  not  expensive  on  the  Congo  !  A 
chool  was  soon  established  here,  and  Mr.  Fredrick- 
son  devoted  himself  to  teaching  and  training  the 
young  while  studying  the  language. 

The  seventh  station  was  planted  at  Lukunga,  about 
thirty  miles  farther  on.  It  was  with  great  difficulty 
the  carriers  were  persuaded  to  go  thus  far,  and  far- 
ther they  would  not  move.  There  had  been  some 
ficrhting  with  Stanley's  men  in  advance,  and  their 
courage  failed.  Messrs.  Clarke,  Richards,  and  Petter- 
sen,  who  were  at  this  time  the  pioneering  party,  were 
desirous  of  reaching  the  N'dunga  towns,  which  were 


"A   SUPPLY   OF   MEAT   FOR   THE   CARRIERS."      (SiC  /.  324.) 


±i 


526  DESEJ^'fEKS. 


only  separated  from  them  at  Lukunjja  by  one  valley. 
But  the  men  were  afraid,  and  preferred  deserting  and 
losing  all  their  wages  to  risking  an  advance  !  At 
first  they  would  not  even  cross  the  Lukunga  stream. 
They  were  told  that  if  they  refused  to  stay  they  might 
go,  and  that  the  white  men  would  proceed  without 
them.  This  brought  them  to  their  senses,  and  the 
greater  part  consented  to  remain.  Four  of  them 
however  went  off.  These  "  palavers "  are  some  of 
the  most  trying  experiences  the  missionaries  ha\'C  to 
encounter.  The  anxiety  produced  by  desertion  and 
the  fear  of  it  often  makes  them  ill,  and  to  see  alterca- 
tions going  on  in  the  caravan  increases  moreover  the 
distrust  of  the  surrounding  natives. 

"No  notice  was  taken  of  the  deserters,  and  soon  afterwards  a  depu- 
tation from  the  rest  of  the  men  came  forward  praying,"  writes  Mr. 
Clarke,  "not  to  be  sent  away,  and  promising  not  to  make  any  more 
'palaver,'  but  to  do  whatever  we  might  ask  them.  One  of  them  made 
me  almost  laugh  outright  by  kneeling  on  the  ground,  and  with  out- 
stretched hands  saying,  '  Do  you  please,  massa  !  Do  you  please  I  ^^'e 
no  fit  to  make  no  more  palaver.  Do  you  please,  massa  ! '  We  con- 
sented at  last  that  they  should  slay,  and  koon  all  were  busy  arranging 
a  camp,  for  we  saw  it  would  be  impossible  to  go  on  for  a  day  or  two, 
as  the  people  were  evidently  greatly  frightened.  I  was  not  altogether 
sorry  for  the  tlelay,  as  I  was  suffering  from  sore  feet,  and  in  other  ways 
ill  besides.     . 

"  From  what  \\e  learned  we  thought  it  advisable  to  establish  our- 
selves there  for  a  time — at  least,  if  a  suitable  place  could  be  found. 
We  could  see  they  are  a  class  of  people  not  much  to  be  trusted,  and 
that  unless  they  got  thoroughly  acquainted  with  us  it  w'ould  not  be 
safe  to  have  carriers  passing  through  that  district  unaccompanied  by  one 
or  more  of  ourselves.  The  river  here  is  not  fordable  in  the  rainy  season, 
and  at  such  places  we  generally  experience  trouble  from  the  extortionate 
demands  made  upon  us  by  canoe  owners.  After  much  consideration  we 
resolved  to  look  out  for  a  place  where  we  might  build  a  temporary  station, 
and  found  a  very  suitable  one  on  a  low  hill  at  a  little  distance  from  our 


SUPERIORITY  OF  NATIVES  OF  LUKUNGA.        327 


camp.  Koiiiul  one  end  of  it  flows  the  Liikunga,  here  about  thirty 
yardj  wide,  and  having  a  plentiful  supply  of  beautiful  fish,  some  two 
feet  long.  Its  banks  are  wooded,  and  there  is  very  good  soil  for 
gardening.  Here,  we  thought,  if  we  build  a  station,  we  shall  at  all 
times  have  a  good  supply  of  water  and  firewood,  wood  for  building, 
bamboo  and  palm  leaves,  as  well  as  abundance  of  food.  Here  we  can 
have  a  canoe  of  our  own  ;  in  fact,  a  fine  tree  of  which  to  make  one 
stands  close  to  the  spot  where  we  determined  to  pitch  our  tent.  As 
this  was  the  second  time  the  Lord  had  permitted  us  to  be  stopped  in 
this  district,  as  I  was  ill,  as  the  boys  refused  to  go  farther,  and  as  the 
natives  wished  us  to  stay,  we  told  them  we  would  build  at  the  river 
side,  a  little  distance  from  the  village.  They  said,  '  All  right,  we  are 
glad' ;  and  promised  to  bring  us  grass,  native  string,  mats,  food,  etc." 

A  dozen  different  towns  are  visible  from  this  spot 
on  the  neighbouring  hills  and  mountains.  Some  of 
the  men  who  have  visited  the  missionaries  from  these 
places  seemed  superior  people,  tall,  fine-looking  men, 
intelligent  and  gentle.  There  are  great  distinctions 
between  the  different  tribes  of  Congoland,  some  hav- 
ing a  low  and  vicious  look,  and  others  presenting  a 
very  different  appearance. 

Mr.  Clarke,  leaving  his  comrades  to  build  in  this 
pleasant  spot,  returned  to  send  up  goods  and  stores, 
and  was  taken  ill  on  the  road.  He  wrote  while 
detained  for  a  fortnight  by  severe  sickness  : 

"  I  am  now  ill  and  was  in  bed  nearly  all  day  yester- 
day ;  in  fact,  I  have  been  ailing  for  ten  days  ;  but  the 
Lord  is  with  me.  His  love  is  sweeter  than  all  else 
I  possess,  and  I  cannot  but  thank  Him  for  this 
illness,  for  it  is  when  I  am  most  troubled  that  I  get 
the  sweetest  draughts  of  the  \\-ater  of  life." 

He  was  glad  to  find  that  he  could  secure  native 
carriers  as  far  as  Lukunga — a  great  relief,  as  they 
could    be    trusted   without   supervision,   and   were    of 


328         STANLEY'S  DESCRIPTION  OE  LUKUNGA. 


course  less  expensive  than  imported  Kroo-boys.  Still 
for  a  time  the  missionaries  could  not  get  on  without 
the  Kroo-boys  ;  the  use  of  them  alone  provoked  the 
natives  to  competition.  When  they  saw  strangers 
earning  money  in  their  country  by  simply  doing  for 
others  what  they  themselves  were  constantly  doing 
for  their  own  trade — carrying  heavy  loads  long  dis- 
tances— then  they  naturally  said,  "  Why  should  li'e  let 
them  do  that  work  ?  \Vc  could  do  it  just  as  well, 
and  better!"  Having  learned  by  this  time  to  trust 
both  the  kind  treatment  and  the  fidelity  to  engage- 
ments of  the  missionaries,  they  became  by  degrees 
willing  to  do  their  transport,  though  often  very  dif- 
ficult to  manage,  and  not  unfrequently  stealing  by  the 
way  from  the  packages  which  they  carried. 

This  station  at  Lukunga  has  turned  out  a  very 
satisfactory  one  in  every  way.  Though  it  is  rather 
anticipating,  we  may  give  here  a  sketch  of  it  and  its 
surroundings  as  they  struck  an  observant  eye,  written 
later  on  by  a  [practised  pen. 

On  his  last  journey  down  the  country,  in  the  spring 
of  1884,  Mr.  Stanley  travelled  on  the  south  side  of 
the  river,  and  visited  some  of  our  stations.  He  thus 
speaks  of  this  one  at  Lukunga,  where  IMr.  and  Mrs. 
Ingham  were  then  residing,  where  Mr.  Hoste  laboured 
so  long,  and  where  Mr.  Harvey  now  is  : 

"A  few  miles  beyond  this  favoured  and  amiable  community  of 
N'dunga  we  begin  the  descent  into  the  broad  valley  of  the  Lukunga, 
where  we  are  hospitably  received  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ingham  of  the 
Livingstone  Mission.  I  shouKl  have  wished  that  my  chiefs  who  have 
affected  to  labour  at   Manyanga  had  seen  the  pretty  little  station  which 


WOMAN'S  INFLUENCE  IN  AFRICA.  329 

this  soldier  missionary  had  constructed,  witli  lialf  a  dozen  men,  or 
rather  boys.  The  mission  cottage  was  as  dainty  within  as  any  resi- 
dence need  be.  .\  spacious  garden  behind  it  presented  a  vivid  promise : 
a  well-kept  court  or  plaza  in  front  was  surrounded  by  store-rooms, 
kitchen,  and  schoolroom  ;  under  the  shadowy  eaves  were  to  be  seen  the 
mission  children.  I  think  it  rather  encouraged  me  to  believe  that  the 
Congo  climate,  even  in  that  low  hollow  of  Lukunga,  was  endurable, 
when  I  here  saw  a  delicate  lady  bear  herself  so  bravely.  I  utter  literal 
truth  when  I  say  that  my  sojourn  for  twenty  hours  was  enjoyed  with  the 
most  exquisite  pleasure.  Ten  men  might  have  utterly  stripped  and 
carried  away  the  veneer  of  civilization  on  that  mission  house,  and  left 
it  bare  and  barbarous,  but  the  art  was  in  the  lady's  hands,  and  the  rich 
gift  of  taste  inherited  in  far  away  England  had  diffused  attractiveness 
over  the  humble  home.  ;^ioo  was  probably  the  value  of  all  I  saw, 
but  then  the  ;^io,ooo  expended  at  Manyanga  failed  to  excite  pleasure 
or  admiration  in  my  thoughts. 

"  From  the  cheerful  mission  house  at  Lukunga  the  caravan  climbed 
the  steep  slopes  leading  up  to  the  plateau  land  once  more.  A  day's 
journey  carried  us  over  miles  of  level  expanse,  which  might,  if  culti- 
vated, supply  thousands  of  people  with  wheat  and  corn.  And  if  its 
dense  crops  of  wild,  tall  grasses  were  superseded  by  what  industry 
could  sow,  plant,  and  build  over  the  great  waste,  then  we  might  see 
beauty  and  richness  displaying  the  fertility  of  the  soil  better  than  the 
dead  monotony  of  aspect  which  now  enshrouds  its  potent  powers  of 
production." 


Mr.  Harvey  had  been   much  of  an  invalid  during 
the    summer,    suffering    in    various    ways    and    lame 
The  following  letter  from  him  gives  a  picture  of  Pala 
bala  at  this  time  : 

"  This  affliction  has  laid  me  aside  from  many  secular  duties,  but  given 
me  more  time  for  meditation,  and  I  am  very  thankful  for  it.  I  feel 
that  I  have  been  discouraging  myself  by  trying  to  grapple  with  the 
work  as  a  whole,  instead  of  dealing  with  its  details  as  they  arise  day 


330  '•  k^E  KNOIV  GOD   HEARS   US." 

by  day.  We  must  be  content  to  talk  wiih  the  people  individually  when 
we  have  no  larger  opportunities  of  intluencing  them  for  good.  I  am 
sure  that  when  a  man  trusts  to  receive  the  wistloni  that  cometh  from 
above,  from  llio  first  stammering  sentence  uttered  to  tlie  last  sermon 
delivered,  lie  will  have  Divine  help  and  guidance,  and  each  day  will 
bring  its  fresh  opportunities  for  usefulness,  and  its  fresh  ada[)tation  of 
the  worker  to  the  work. 

"  One  day  my  legs  were  so  bad  that  I  could  not  go  out,  but  was  on 
the  sofa  (a  memorial  of  brother  Richard's  industry),  anrl  had  the 
children  around  me  in  school-time  teaching  them.  Idada,  king  of  a 
neighbouring  town,  happened  to  be  present  while  I  was  expounding  the 
beautiful  little  hymn  entitled,  'When  lie  cometh  to  make  up  His 
jewels.'  The  explanation  of  lliis  caused  so  many  questions  to  be 
asked  and  answered,  that  half  an  hour  had  slipped  by  before  we  knew 
it.  Touching  at  length  un  the  subject  of  prayer,  little  Frank,  a  lad  of 
about  eight  years  old,  surprised  me  by  saying,  'We,'  pointing  to  the 
other  boys,  '  now  know  that  God  hears  us  when  we  pray.'  '  You 
know  it!'  said  I;  'how  do  you  know  it?'  He  answered:  'The 
other  day  when  Vemba's  father  took  him  away  from  here,  and  would 
not  let  him  work  with  us,  we  prayed  to  God.  We  said,  "  O  God,  send 
Vemba  back  to  us,"  and  God  did  send  him  back,  so  now  we  know 
He  hears  us  when  we  pray  to  Him.'  'Ah!'  thought  I,  'Thou  hast 
hid  these  things  from  the  wise  and  pnident,  and  revealed  them  unto 
babes,'  even  these  poor  little  Fyote  babes  !  If  the  children  continue 
as  they  have  been  doing  lately,  the  teacher  will  learn  much  from  his 
scholars,  as  well  as  they  from  him.     .     .     . 

"  The  other  day  a  woman  died  here  after  a  short  illness.  The  people 
would  not  allow  Mr.  Waters  to  attend  the  funeral — '.\hy  we  could 
not  understand.  After  the  cortege  had  passed  our  place,  we  heard 
that  three  men  were  to  be  burned  next  day  for  '  killing  a  woman.' 
As  I  could  not  walk  to  see  the  king,  Waters  fetched  him  here.  I 
asked  him  at  once  about  the  matter.  He  entirely  denied  that  any 
men  were  to  be  burned,  but  thought  it  likely  one  man  would  have 
to  drink  the  'poison  water'  to  prove  that  he  had  not  killed  her.  I 
tried  hard  to  show  him  the  absurdity  of  this  custom.  I  said,  'If 
I    drink   it  and  die,   should  I  be  the  culjirit  that  killed  the  woman  ?  ' 


"WHAT!   /  A   MURDERER?"  331 

No,'  he  said.  Then  I  tried  to  get  his  conscience  to  work,  and 
told  him  that  if  lie  allowed  the  poison  to  be  given  and  the  man 
died,  CJod  would  lu)ld  him  to  be  a  murderer.  He  seemed  staggered 
at  this.  'What!  I?'  he  said,  'Yes,  you.'  'A  murderer?'  'Yes, 
a  murderer.'  'I?'  he  again  asked;  and  so  that  there  should  be  no 
mistake,  I  pointed  to  him  and  said,  'Yes,  you;  iiifuinit,  king.'  I 
believe  he  had  previously  imagined  that  murders  might  be  committed 
by  subjects,  but  never  by  kings ;  if  so,  he  is  not  the  only  king  who 
has  thought  so,  even  in  other  countries  than  Congo  !  " 

The  matter  was  in  this  case  suffered  to  fall  through, 
and  this  terrible  custom  of  following  every  death 
by  one  or  more  murders  was  afterwards,  under  the 
influence  of  the  missionaries,  abandoned  in  Palabala 
and  elsewhere.  It  is  now  contrary  to  the  laws  of  the 
Congo  Free  State. 

Messrs.  Liley  and  Westlind  had  proceeded  up 
country  soon  after  their  arrival,  and  been  warmly 
welcomed  at  Palabala.     Mr.  Liley  wrote  : 

Our  boys  read  and  write  e.xceedingly  well,  considering  their  oppor- 
tunities. If  they  had  only  had  the  advantages  of  English  boys,  they 
would  have  been  bright  scholars. 

I  never  experienced  such  joy  and  peace  as  since  I  have  been  out 
here.  Who  would  not  come  and  work  among  these  poor  deluded 
people  I  The  joy  we  have  in  distributing  the  bread  of  life  to  these  our 
dark  brethren  far,  far  outweighs  the  so-called  pleasures  of  living  in 
ease  and  luxury  in  England.  Life  seems  so  real,  and  the  word  of  God 
and  prayer  so  much  more  precious.  /  /lavc  no  desire  (0  live  but  for  this 
work,  if  God  will  only  bless  me  in  it.     .     .     . 

Mr.  Richards  wrote  of  his  visits  to  the  villages 
around  Banza  Manteka,  and  of  the  sad  sights  he 
witnessed  continually,  but  of  the  gradual  increase  of 


332  BURNING  OF  BEMBA   STATION. 

influence  which  he  was  yainin^.     Here  is  a  sketch  of 
one  visit  : 

A  lot  of  men,  women,  and  children,  dancing,  yelling,  and  drumming 
around  a  poor  woman  who  was  suffering,  I  believe,  from  rheumatism. 
They  became  silent  and  angry  at  the  sight  of  us,  and  wanted  to  know 
what  I  had  come  for. 

"  To  teach  you  about  God,  and  how  to  worship  Him." 

"  We  don't  know  Him,  and  we  don't  want  to  worship  Him.  Go 
away,  white  man." 

"What  is  the  matter  with  the  woman.'  NVhat  are  you  doing  to 
her?" 

"Nothing!     Nothing  I     Nothing!" 

"  Yes,  you  are  trying  to  make  her  well."  She  was  sitting  on  a  mat 
all  alone  now.      "  But  you  are  not  going  the  right  way  to  do  it.  " 

^'  NJoki  has  made  her  ill  ;  we  were  trying  to  make  her  well." 

"  But  this  is  a  foolish  way  to  try  ;  listen  to  me." 

"  No,  we  will  not  listen.     Go  away,  white  man."  . 

They  became  angry,  but  unconsciously  to  them,  I  hardly  know  how, 
I  managed  to  interest  them  at  last  in  the  works  of  Gotl.  I  told  them 
the  story  of  the  six  days'  work  of  creation,  and  after  describing  each 
day's  work,  asked  them,  "  Why  not  worship  Him  who  made  all  these 
good  things  ?  "  The  question,  "  Who  makes  your  food  grow  ?  "  seemed 
especially  to  interest  them,  and  they  acknowledged  that  God  made 
everything.  Again  I  asked,  "  Why  not  then  worship  Him?"  There 
was  a  gnmt  of  approval  from  many.  I  went  on  and  told  them  about 
Christ  the  Redeemer,  and  asked  them  to  close  their  eyes  while  I 
prayed  to  God.  They  did  so.  1  did  not  forget  to  ask  healing  for  the 
poor  woman  in  my  prayer.  ...  A  thunderstorm  came  on,  and 
we  had  to  make  our  way  home  as  quickly  as  possible. 

The  Burning  of  Bemua  Station. 

The  cry  of  fire  is  a  terrible  one  even  in  London, 
where  every  appliance  for  extinguishing  the  flames 
is  at  hand.  In  our  cold,  damp  climate,  where  brick 
and  stone  and  other  non-inflammable  materials  are 
so  largely  used,  fires  spread  slowly,  and  are  com- 
paratively   inanageable.     W'c  remember   watching  a 


.-/   FTRE  IN  CENTRAL  AFRICA. 


?33 


fire  that  burst  out  in  a  good-sized  wooden  house  in 
London,  Canada  West.  It  burnt  as  if  it  had  been 
made   of    matches!      The    "  shinj^le "    wooden    roof, 


334  ''ALL  JS  GONE!' 


heated  by  the  sun,  was  gone  in  two  or  three  minutes  ; 
floors,  walls,  timbers  followed  in  quick  succession, 
and  in  a  quarter  of  an  hour  there  were  only  ashes 
left.  In  .Africa,  where  wood  is  mingled  with  even 
more  inflammable  materials,  and  where  the  sun  heat 
is  still  greater,  destruction  is  still  quicker.  And  oh, 
if  fire  is  a  calamity  at  home,  w  here  there  are  plent)- 
of  houses  to  be  rented,  and  where  insurance  covers 
the  cost,  it  is  a  tenfold  calamity  on  the  Congo,  where 
no  other  houses  are  available,  and  where  each  building 
represents  a  value  immensely  greater  than  its  mere 
materials  and  money-cost  of  construction — the  lives 
that  have  perhaps  been  lost  in  building  it,  and  in  the 
labour  of  transporting  its  contents.  There  moreo\er  its 
destruction  may  mean  fatal  fevers  to  the  inhabitants, 
brought  on  b)'  agitation,  over-exertion,  vexation,  and 
exposure,  and  it  certainl}-  means  a  loss  to  the  mission 
immensely  in  excess  of  the  actual  value  consumed. 

Yet  in  circumstances  which  make  fires  things  to 
be  doubly  dreaded,  it  is  peculiarly  difficult  to  avoid 
them.  The  native  habit  of  burning  the  grass  has 
several  very  bad  effects.  Among  others  it  fills  the  air 
with  sparks,  which  light  on  the  thatched  roofs,  and 
suddenly  kindle  into  flame,  which  there  are  no  ap- 
pliances at  hand  to  extinguish.  This  calamity  has 
occurred  more  than  once  in  the  history  of  the  mission 
of  which  we  write,  and  also  in  that  of  the  Baptist 
Mission,  whose  station  at  Stanle}-  Pool  'was  burnt 
down,  and  thousands  of  pounds'  worth  of  goods  de- 
stroj'ed.  Mr.  Stanley's  station  at  Bolobo  was  burned 
down,  and  ^1,500  worth  of  property  consumed. 


PALABALA   ALSO  BURNT.  335 


The  room}'  house,  so  carefull}'  planned  and  so  well 
built  on  the  hill  at  Remba,  and  so  beautifully  situate 
that  its  architect  was  fain  to  call  it  "  Mount  Pleasant," 
perished  in  a  catastrophe  of  this  kind.  One  hot  day 
in  August,  a  spark  from  burning  grass  thus  kindled 
the  roof,  and  in  a  few  minutes  all  was  destroyed. 
Yet  a  space  supposed  to  be  quite  sufficient  had  been 
cleared  around  the  dwelling.     Mr.  Clarke  wrote: 

We  had  but  a  minute  or  two  in  which  to  snatcli  a  few  things,  for  the 
fire  spread  very  rapidly,  and  the  mats  fell  burning  from  the  roof,  setting 
everything  below  on  fire.  Our  drugs  all  perished,  except  the  chloro- 
dyne  ;  and  nothing  but  a  little  cloth,  a  few  books,  and  some  clothes, 
with  a  box  of  cartridges  and  a  bale  of  rugs,  were  saved.  The  medicine 
chest,  the  office  box,  and  most  of  the  things  were  lost.  No  food  n'cis 
saved ;  all  is  gone,  but  we  are  getting  on  with  native  supplies.  None 
of  Lanceley's  clothes  were  saved,  and  only  a  part  of  mine.  He  is  without 
boots.  .  .  .  We  have  built  a  temporary  hut,  larger  than  the  old  one, 
by  the  river  side,  so  that  we  might  have  some  shelter  from  the  rains. 

Later  on  the  station  at  Palabala  fell  a  pre}'  to 
the  flames.  This  station — the  oldest  in  the  mission 
— had  been  recently  rebuilt,  and  rendered  convenient, 
comfortable,  and  health}'.  It  included  stores,  school- 
house,  chapel,  boys'  house,  and  two  missionary  resi- 
dences ;  and,  most  unfortunately,  at  the  time  of  the 
fire  the  store  contained  a  large  and  valuable  stock 
of  goods  which  had  just  been  taken  out.  On  this 
occasion  the  loss  to  the  mission  was  not  under  £yoo 
or  ;{^8oo.  This  is  one  of  the  trials  of  life  and  work  in 
this  uncivilized  country — a  danger  that  must  be  always 
taken  into  account.  The  fuller  occupation  of  the 
countr}',  and  culture  of  the  land,  would  avert  it.  Mean- 
time the  only  protection  is  the  careful  maintenance 
of  extensive  clearings  round  the  mission  premises. 


GEORGE  LANCELEY,  OF  MALPAS,  CHESHIRE. 

'^I  am  'where  I  7vis/i  lo  be,— in  the  front.  If  'oe  fall  in  the  fight 
.  .  .  martyrs  for  Jesiis,  what  an  honour !  .  .  .  Of  course  it  ii.<oitld 
be  "wrong  to  run  into  death ;  hut  if  ?nany  fall  in  the  Congo  field,  others 
must  come  and  fill  up  the  vacancies.  Jf  my  example  shall  lead  others  to 
JoHo'lO.  I  shall  be  abundantly  satisfied,  even  though  I  fail  in  the  attempt 
to  reach  the  Pool."     (See  p.  342.) 


336 


CHAPTER   VIII. 
THE   DEATH  ROLL    OF  1882. 

Ox  the  afternoon  of  Easter  Sunday,  the  9th  of 
April,  a  day  made  glad  with  thoughts  of  resurrection 
and  newness  of  life,  we  were  surprised  and  startled 
by  the  announcement  that  Mr.  Habens  wished  to  see 
us.  Habens  ?  What,  Joe,  the  young  sailor  from  the 
Congo?  at  home  here  in  England  ?  The  first  feeling 
was  one  of  thankfulness  that  he  zuas  here  ;  regret  that 
he  should  have  been  invalided  home  so  soon  was 
quite  a  secondary  consideration.  He  came  up,  look- 
ing, not  \\'ell  certainly,  yet  not  so  ill  as  we  had  feared. 
But  he  scarcely  smiled  in  response  to  our  hearty 
greetings,  and  as  he  sat  down,  his  lip  trembled  and 
his  eyes  filled  as  he  said,  "  I  am  sorry  to  be  the 
bearer  of  more  heavy  tidings." 

Oh  how  our  heart  sank  !  We  almost  dreaded  to 
let  him  speak  further,  yet  were  impatient  to  know 
what  we  shrank  from  hearing.  The  news  came,  sad 
and  certain,  all  too  soon.  "  Mr.  Lanceley  is  gone ! 
He  died  after  a  few  hours'  illness  on  the  28th  of 
January.'' 

C.  A.  337  22 


338  ''  LANCELEV  GONE?" 


"  Lanctiey  gone  ?"  Wc  looked  incredulously  at  our 
young  informant.  "  Yes,  ma'am  ;  buried  in  sight  of 
Castle  Rock,  on  the  south  of  the  Congo,  on  the  29th 
of  Januar}'."  "What  was  it?  how  did  it  happen? 
who  was  with  him?"  we  hastily  inquired,  remem- 
bering how  the  letters  received  only  a  few  weeks 
before  had  spoken  of  his  being  in  unusually  good 
health.  The  particulars  which  we  elicited  are  given 
in  a  concise  form  in  the  following  letter  from  Mr. 
Clarke,  which  will,  we  arc  sure,  have  a  sorrowful 
interest  for  our  readers: 


P>ANZA  Mantkka, 
Dear  Mrs.  Gcinness,—  ^''^-  3'"'>  '882. 

Again  it  is  my  sad  duty  to  write  to  you  of  the  death  of  one  of  our 
number^    Brother  Lanceley  has  been  called  to  his  rest. 

On  the  26th  of  January  he,  Mr.  Richards,  and  I  set  out  to  examine 
the  south  side  of  the  river  from  Bemba  to  Stanley  I'ool ;  and  on  the 
evening  of  Saturday,  the  28th,  at  6.45,  he  died  of  fever,  about  eighteen 
miles  beyond  Bemba,  at  a  spot  nearly  opposite  Castle  Rock,  but  on 
the  south  side.     .     .     . 

He  was  caught  with  me  in  a  squall  while  crossing  the  Congo.  In 
entering  the  town  of  Londe  on  the  27th,  he  complained  of  having 
knocked  his  left  knee  on  a  snag,  and  feeling  feverish  ;  so  we  rested 
under  some  shadowing  trees  for  twenty  minutes  or  so.  We  camped 
about  three  o'clock,  and  he  was  still  feeling  poorly.  I  opened  out  and 
made  my  bed  ready  for  him  at  the  shady  side  of  a  bush  while  the  tent 
was  being  erected,  and  when  it  was  put  up  I  had  his  own  bed  pre- 
pared, and  he  came  and  lay  down  in  it,  saying  he  was  knocked  up. 
But  he  took  soup  and  coffee  with  us,  and  got  brighter  in  the  evening. 

On  the  morning  of  Saturday,  the  28th,  he  felt  considerably  better, 
though  still  looking  poorly.  AVe  only  travelled  five  miles  that  day,  as 
he  seemed  so  far  from  strong.  I  decided  that  we  would  camp  to  let 
him  rest.  After  stopping,  he  arranged  for  our  breakfast,  and  while  he 
was  doing  so  I  spread  my  ground  sheet  in  a  shady  spot  for  him  to  lie 
down,  and  soon  afterwards  put  up  the  awning  of  the  tent,  and  prepared 
a  bed  for  liim. 


''THE  REST  THAT  REMAINETHr  339 

As  a  storm  was  evidently  brewing,  we  had  the  tent  put  up,  and  again 
lie  lay  down  in  my  bed,  complaining  merely  of  weakness  and  feverish- 
ness.  He  had  no  pain,  only  a  slight  headache ;  but  seemed  tired, 
owing,  as  we  supposed,  to  his  having  been  unaccustomed  to  travelling. 
He  took  some  coffee,  and  tea  later  on,  but  ate  no  solid  food. 

During  the  afternoon  he  several  times  went  out  of  the  tent,  walking 
firmly  and  steadily.  At  one  time  he  expressed  himself  as  sorry  that  he 
had  started  on  such  a  journey  with  us,  because,  he  said,  he  should 
evidently  hinder  us.  I  laughingly  said,  "  Keep  your  mind  easy  about 
that ;  for  what  in  Africa  we  fail  to  do  in  one  day,  we  can  try  to  do 
the  next."  About  three  o'clock  p.m.  his  temperature  rose  rapidly,  and 
Mr.  Richards  administered  a  third  dose  of  quinine  to  him  ;  but  neither 
these  repeated  doses  nor  the  chlorodyne  he  took  had  any  perceptible 
effect.  Looking  earnestly  into  my  face,  with  strangely  hushed  voice  he 
said,  "Clarke,  do  you  think  I  shall  recover?''  I  replied  that  I  saw 
no  sufficient  reason  to  think  he  would  not.  Shortly  after  he  said  to 
me,  "I  think  I  shall  not  be  long  with  you,  Clarke."  Putting  my 
hand  gently  under  his  head  and  brushing  back  his  hair,  I  asked,  "  Why 
do  you  think  so ? "  He  quietly  replied,  "Because  my  temperature  is 
so  high,  and  I  do  not  begin  to  perspire."  Soon  after  he  said,  "Jesus 
has  not  come  for  me  yctJ^  Not  being  sure  of  what  he  said,  I  asked 
iiim,  and  he  repeated  that  Jesus  had  not  come  for  him  yet,  adding, 
"  It  may  be  He  will  spare  me." 

In  a  little  while  I  went  out  of  the  tent  to  arrange  some  work  for  the 
boys,  but  hearing  him  talking  in  an  excited  way  to  Mr.  Richards, 
I  returned,  and  found  he  was  delirious.  He  was  afraid  Mr.  Richards 
wanted  to  shoot  him,  but  lay  down  quietly  when  we  assured  him  it  was 
not  so.  Seeing  he  was  very  much  heated,  I  brushed  back  his  hair, 
saying,  "  Is  not  that  nice?"  Thinking  I  was  his  brother  William,  he 
said,  "Yes  ;  Clarke  did  that  for  me  several  times." 

Veiy  soon  he  ceased  to  speak,  and  was  evidently  quite  unconscious 
of  our  presence  and  actions.  His  eyes  were  but  slightly  open,  his 
breathing  heavy  and  laboured,  changing  at  times  to  short,  quick  respira- 
tion. He  did  not  appea  to  suffer  pain,  but  steadily  and  swiftly  the 
fatal  symptoms  succeeded  each  other  till,  about  6.45  p.m.,  he  opened 
his  eyes,  and,  fixing  his  gaze  on  my  face  ■ivitli  a  look  full  of  wonder 
ami  of  peace,  he  gently  passed  into  the  "rest  that  remaineth."  He 
had  laid  down  the  sword  and  received  the  palm  of  victory  while  we 
sat  looking  at  each  other,  and  thinking  it  could  not  be. 

His  death  came  on  ns  like  a  thunderbolt !  Only  three  hours  before 
he  had  risen  from  the  bed  saying  he  was  tired,  but  that  he  felt  stronger. 


340  "BE    YE  ALSO  READY:' 

As  I  saw  him  passing  away,  I  Irembled.  I  felt  it  might  have  been 
myself  that  was  dying,  and  he  the  healthy  one.  I  could  not  but  be 
solemnized,  for  1  heard  a  voice  speaking  in  my  soul,  "Be  ye  also 
ready." 

Scarcely  had  dear  Lanceley  ceased  to  breathe  when  a  very  severe 
thunderstorm  broke  on  us,  and  for  a  long  time  our  position  was  dismal 
indeed,  desolation  within  and  storm  without. 

Assisted  by  a  Kroo-boy,  I  sewed  his  remains  up  in  blankets  and  a 
ground  sheet,  and  Mr.  Richards  and  I,  when  the  storm  had  passed 
away,  set  the  boys  to  dig  a  grave.  About  six  o'clock  on  .Sunday, 
29th  January,  we  had  a  short  service,  and  buried  him  close  by  where  he 
died.  His  grave  is  on  the  brow  of  a  hill  overlooking  a  fine  stretch 
of  the  Congo  to  the  north  and  north-east,  about  tw  o  miles  off ;  Castle 
Rock,  on  the  north  bank,  bears  by  compass  two  points  to  the  E.  of  N. 

The  boys  brought  stones,  and  these  I  arranged  around  the  grave,  a 
double  row  at  each  end,  and  his  initials  in  the  centre. 

Mr.  Richards,  who  had  so  recently  lost  his  dear 
wife,  wrote  also  an  account  of  that  terrible  night, 
which  may  help  those  who  tarry  at  home  to  feel  for 
missionaries  in  Central  Africa. 

We  saw  he  was  going,  but  before  we  could  believe  death  was  at 
hand,  he  departed  to  be  with  Christ.  It  was  6.45  p.m.  I  thought  I 
must  be  dreaming.  Lanceley,  who  only  two  hours  before  had  walked 
into  the  tent,  expressing  the  hope  that  he  would  be  able  to  proceed 
next  day,  lying  dead  before  us  J  Just  as  the  spirit  had  left  the  body,  the 
lightning  and  thunder  became  dreadful,  and  the  rain  came  down  in 
torrents.  It  was  awful  in  the  extreme.  It  seemed  as  though  nature, 
and  nature's  God,  were  against  us.  Never  shall  I  forget  that  night. 
God's  ways  are  past  finding  out ;  we  cannot  understand  them.  We 
were  stunned  ;  but  we  had  to  act,  and  to  act  quickly.  Seeing  that 
the  heavy  rains  had  set  in,  and  both  of  us  feeling  ill,  we  decided, 
with  sorrowful  hearts,  to  return  to  Bemba.  Just  before  we  arrived 
at  the  Congo,  opposite  Bemba,  we  saw  four  elephants.  Clarke  fired 
at  one  and  killed  it,  and  wounded  two  others  which  got  away.  The 
tusks  were  small,  but  of  good  quality,  and  the  meat,  which  is  very 
good  and  just  like  lean  beef,  can  be  dried,  and  will  last  the  Kroo-boys 
for  a  long  time,  and  save  buying  fowls,  goats,  and  pigs.  Ingham  was 
jhocked  when  he  heard  the  sad  news ;  and  in  the  afternoon  two  natives 
from  Banza  Manteka  came  with  letter?  bringing  the  melancholy  tidings 


A   MARTYR  FOR  JESUS.  341 


of  Mr.  McCall's  death,  some  of  them  addressed  to  my  lost  and  loved 
good  wife,  who  has  been  with  Jesus  for  more  than  two  months.  Three 
members  of  the  mission  gone,  and  two  others  obliged  to  return  to  Eng- 
land in  less  tlian  three  months  !  These  things  almost  make  my  heart 
reel  and  my  faith  stagger.     O  God,  give  grace  ! 

Mr.  George  Lancelcy,  of  Malpas,  Cheshire,  was  one 
who,  though  young,  had  greatly  endeared  himself  to 
all  who  knew  him.  From  fourteen  years  of  age  he 
had  longed  to  devote  himself  to  Africa.  At  that  age 
he  walked  eighteen  miles  to  hear  Dr.  Moffat  deliver 
a  missionary  address,  and  studied  with  deep  interest 
the  life  of  David  Livingstone.  He  had  been  a  help 
and  comfort  to  ]\Ir.  McCall  all  through  the  time  of 
their  association,  and  had  been  tried  by  the  weary 
months  of  waiting  since  they  had  parted.  Meanwhile 
he  had  written  : 

W'e  have  got  on  fairly  well  with  the  language,  have  some  lists  of 
words  written  out,  and  have  succeeded  at  last  in  making  the  natives 
confide  in  us  and  trust  our  word.  I  am  where  I  wish  to  be,  in  the 
^ront,  bearing  some  of  the  enormous  difficulties  incident  to  the  establish 
ment  of  our  mission.  We  carry  our  lives  in  our  hands  ;  but,  thanks  be 
unto  God  !  our  names  are  written  in  the  Lamb's  book  of  life.  If  we 
fall  in  the  fight,  Jesus  will  welcome  us  among  the  martyr  throng.  A 
martyr  for  Jesus :  what  an  honour  ! 

Africa  groans  beneath  her  burden,  and  knows  not  Him  who  is 
willing  to  relieve  her.  Africa  is  buried  in  darkness,  lost,  lost,  and  few 
to  bear  the  lantern  and  lead  them  to  the  Sun  of  righteousness.  Jesus 
will  soon  return  to  gather  His  loved  ones  to  Himself,  and  if  Africa  has 
not  heard  the  glad  tidings,  whom  will  He  blame  for  such  neglect  ? 
Whom — but  those  who  sit  at  ease  in  Zion,  careless  of  their  brothers' 
salvation  ?  Whom — but  those  who  have  the  ability  to  go,  and  prefer 
staying  at  home  because  it  is  more  comfortable — those  who  even  dare 
to  consider  health  and  earthly  baubles  of  more  importance  than  the 
salvation  of  the  heathen  ?  What  is  health  compared  to  the  souls  of 
men?  What  are  a  few  earthly  comforts  compared  to  the  joy  of  adding 
gems  to  the  Saviour's  crown?    Surely  this  cannot  be  the  spirit  of  Jesus, 


342         "OTJIEKS  Mi'SiT  fll.l.  THE    I'.ICAXCIES:' 

neither  is  it  cari7ing  out  Mis  command  to  "preach  the  gospel  to  every 
creature."  Of  course  it  would  be  wrong  to  run  into  death;  hut  ij 
vianv  fall  in  the  Cohs;o  fuld,  others  must  come  ami  fill  tlte  vaciincies. 
If  my  example  shall  lead  others  to  follcni>,  I  shall  be  ahundanlly  satisfied, 
even  though  J  fxil  in  the  attempt  to  reach  the  Pool. 

Alas !  the  words  were  an  anticipation  of  w  hat  he 
was  so  soon  to  do !  His  wish  to  advance  was  g^rati- 
fied  at  last.  The  foregoing  letters  give  the  story 
of  the  brief  journey  which  took  him  farther  than  he 
asked  or  thought,  and  accomplished  for  him  more 
than  heart  can  conceive,  landing  him  in  paradise  with 
Christ,  there  to  receive  his  Master's  "  Well  done,  good 
and  faithful  servant." 

We  were  the  less  prepared  for  these  sad  news 
because,  in  the  previous  December,  Mr.  Fredrickson 
had  written  on  his  arrival  at  Bemba  :  "  I  was  aston- 
ished at  Clarke's  healthy  appearance,  and  Lanceley 
looked  quite  as  well  as  his  colleague ;  indeed,  they 
could  not  have  looked  better  in  England.  I  am 
surprised  at  the  influence  thc\'  have  gained  over  the 
natives,  not  only  here,  but  in  the  villages  in  the 
interior." 

Lanceley's  death  therefore  was  not  attributable  to 
any  failure  of  health,  but  purely  to  accident.  It 
seems  to  have  resulted  from  the  wetting  he  received 
in  the  squall  which  overtook  them  in  crossing  the 
Congo.  Again,  therefore,  in  a  sense  we  felt,  it  inigJit 
have  been  avoided ;  but  accidents  are  difficult  to  avoid 
in  such  a  country  ! 

Six  weeks  later,  at  Palabala  Station,  another 
similar  blow  fell  on  the  mission,  and  a  most  worth}' 
brother,  J  ESSE  Bluxt,  a  carpenter  missionary-,  who, 


DEATH  OF  JESSE  BLUNT.  343 


like  ]\IcKergow,  had  gladly  placed  his  manual  skill 
at  the  sen-ice  of  the  mission,  was  suddenly  cut  off. 
This  case  however  was  unlike  Lanceley's,  in  that  from 
the  first  Mr.  Blunt  had  felt  the  effects  of  the  climate, 
and  had  been  seriousl}-  ill  several  times  before  at- 
tacked by  the  fever  which  terminated  his  brief  African 
career  of  eleven  months.  He  died  of  intermittent 
fever  and  jaundice,  very  suddenly  at  last,  Mr.  Harvey 
being  alone  with  him  at  the  time.  He  had  been 
delirious  for  some  time,  then  sank  into  a  comatose 
condition. 

At  length  he  opened  his  eyes  very  widely,  as  if  beholding  some- 
thing marvellous,  and  with  two  long-drawn  sighs  breathed  out  his  soul 
into  the  arms  of  his  Saviour.  * 

An  hour  or  two  afterwards  his  grave  was  being  dug  in  our  little 
cemetery,  and  his  coffin  was  being  made  by  the  carpenter.  For  my 
part  I  was  stunned,  and  threw  myself  down  on  my  bed  (being  in  fever 
myself  that  day).  Nothing  seemed  real,  and  every  now  and  again  I 
found  myself  starting  up  to  see  if  I  could  do  anything  more  ;  but  I  was 
forced  to  grasp  the  fact  that  Brother  Blunt  was  really  no  longer  in 
need  of  any  earthly  assistance,  and  I  had  the  comfort  of  knowing  in 
myself  that  all  that  it  was  possible  for  me  to  do  I  had  done  before  the 
spark  of  life  had  gone  out.  As  I  lay  there,  I  almost  fancied  that  I 
could  communicate  with  him  ;  at  any  rate  while  reading  that  beautiful 
14th  chapter  of  John  I  could  realize  his  taking  possession  of  his  eternal 
mansion,  and  felt  such  a  strange  kind  of  happiness  !  Like  Bunyan 
when  Christian  and  Hopeful  passed  into  the  city  through  the  gates, 
and  all  the  bells  of  heaven  rang  for  joy,  I  could  have  wished  myself  in 
there  too  ;  but  "  every  many  in  his  own  order.  ' 

During  the  evening  a  deputation  came  round  from  king  Kangampaka 
to  express  his  sorrow  and  sympathy ;  also  to  say  that  they  feared  on 
account  of  so  many  dying  we  should  be  inclined  to  give  up  the  work 
here  ;  but  they  begged  I  would  stop  and  teach  them  "God's  words." 
I  of  course  told  them  that  we  had  no  intention  of  giving  up  the  work 
on  account  of  the  deaths  that  had  taken  place,  and  that  I  had  no 
more  thought  of  going  away  now  than  before.  They  then  went  away 
satisfied. 


344       KFFECT  ON    THE   KEMAlNhXG  BRETHREN. 

This  morning  at  eight  \vc  tolled  our  bell,  and  very  soon  a  number  of 
natives  gathered  together  to  witness  the  funeral.  We  held  a  short  service 
in  the  house  first,  the  coffin  being  placed  on  the  table.  I  reatl  the  15th 
chapter  of  tiie  First  Kpistle  to  the  Corinthians,  and  then  gave  them  the 
substance  of  it  in  Fyole.  They  were  all  very  much  solemnized,  and 
when  I  told  them  something  of  what  was  laid  up  for  the  believer  in 
Christ  in  heaven,  they  seemed  as  if  it  partly  explained  to  them  why  we 
were  willing  to  leave  our  country  and  die  away  from  home,  a  confessed 
mystery  to  them.  We  then  proceeded  to  the  grave,  where  I  read  a  few 
verses  and  prayed,  after  which  we  sang  ".Safe  in  the  arms  of  Jesus." 
During  the  singing  of  this,  the  .Sierra  Leone  men  were  much  affected  ; 
one  who  had  hitherto  seemed  somewhat  stoical  sobbed  aloud,  and  all 
present  were  deeply  moved. 

Brother  Blunt  was  not  permitted  to  work  here  long,  but  what  he 
has  done  has  been  done  well  and  substantially. 

The  house  on  the  hill  will  be  a  monument  to  his  honour  for  many 
years  to  come.  Although  not  quite  finished,  it  is  so  far  completed  that 
not  much  skill  is  required  to  do  what  remains.  The  house  is  like  his 
character,  solidly  good.  Like  himself  too  it  is  built  upon  a  rock,  and 
probably  could  be  overturned  only  by  a  storm  sufficiently  violent  to 
overturn  the  hill  itself.  The  Rock  of  ages  upon  which  he  has  been 
building  for  nearly  twenty  years  (he  was  converted  very  young)  no  storm 
can  ever  overturn. 

Jesse  l^luiit  awaits  the  resurrection  morn  in  the 
little  burying  ground  at  Palabala,  beside  his  com- 
rades Telford  and  McKergow.  Mr.  Harvey's  letter 
containing  this  sad  news  added  : 

I  little  thought  when  we  went  on  board  the  Vanguard  on  that  (to 
me)  very  memorable  night,  that  of  our  party  only  two  would  be  left  in 
a  couple  of  years,  and  that  no  less  than  four  out  of  six  would  become 
victims  of  the  inhospitable  Congo  climate  ;  but  so  was  it  ordered,  and 
so  it  has  been.     The  will  of  the  Lord  be  done  ! 

/  am  glad  to  tell  you  that  the  effect  of  these  removals  upon  the  sur- 
vivors  is  the  reverse  of  that  which  those  ignorant  of  what  the  constraining 
love  cf  Christ  can  do  would  be  led  to  expect.  From  letters  received  from 
up  and  down  the  country,  and  from  personal  experience,  I  can  safely  say 
each  departure  is  an  additional  incentive  to  those  left  behind  to  spend 


DEATH  OF   WILLIAM  APPKL.  345 

and  be  spent  for  the  Lord  Jesus  ;  and,  as  the  -icorld  says,  to  ^^  make  hay 
7vhile  the  snn  shines."  There  can  be  not  the  smallest  doubt  that  to  the 
majority  \\  ho  come  and  labour  here  "  life  is  short,"  and  very  short ;  but, 
blessed  be  God  !  what  is  clipped  from  time  may  be  said  to  be  added  to 
this  side  of  eternity.  What  gainers  then  each  of  us  will  be  who  are 
taken  from  the  evil  to  come,  and  admitted  to  the  regions  of  the  blest ! 

Nevertheless,  for  more  than  one  reason  I  am  in  no  hurry  as  yet,  but 
am  willing,  very  willing,  to  stay  a  while  and  outlive  a  number  of 
failings  and  weaknesses,  as  well  as  to  glorify  my  God  below  by  offering 
a  goodly  amount  of  heart  service  to  Him, 

The  news  from  up-country  is  very  cheering. 


Nor  was  the  death-roll  of  the  year  1882  complete 
even  then  !  /\nother  name  was  yet  to  be  added  to 
it  in  the  summer,  and  that  one  of  a  worker  who  had 
only  just  reached  the  country — the  bright  and  beloved 
young  brother,  William  Appel. 

He  sailed  in  Ma}',  arrived  out  in  June,  and  died  in 
July! 

We  were  spending  a  few  weeks  in  Scotland  in 
September,  and  had  reached  Glasgow  from  the  north 
late  one  evening  to  give  an  address  on  the  needs  and 
claims  of  Central  Africa  next  day,  when  we  were  met 
by  these  heavy  tidings.  They  stunned  us  completely 
for  a  time ;  we  could  scarcely  believe  them  true  ! 
None  of  the  deaths  that  had  previously  taken  place 
in  the  mission  took  us  so  completely  by  surprise. 
He  had  left  us  so  recently,  seemed  so  well  suited  to 
the  climate,  had  written  so  cheerfully  by  the  last 
mail,  and  had  been  exposed  to  no  severe  strain  or 
great  danger.  It  seemed  so  mysterious  a  providence 
too  !     We  had  hoped  much  from  his  labours  ;  he  was 


mr.     william     appel. 
Died  at  Banana,  1882. 

better  prepared  than  man}'  to  render  \-aluablc  service 
to  the  mission,  and  no  one  who  had  joined  it  had 
seemed  more  full  of  faith  and  zeal,  or  more  devoted 
in  heart. 

And  was  all  this  thrown  away  and  lost?  For  a 
moment  we  felt  as  if  it  was.  We  were  inclined  to 
say  amid  our  tears,  IV/^j'  tJiis  zvaste  ?  IMight  not  this 
life  have  turned  to  more  account  elsewhere?  Ikit 
then  we  remembered  that  the  alabaster  box  of  oint- 


DANGEROUS  ENERGY.  347 

ment  broken  on  His  licad,  though  very  precious,  was 
not  wasted — onl)'  poured  forth  and  expended  in  the 
best  possible  way,  and  pri\-ileged  to  win  the  Lord's 
own  special  approval. 

But  it  was  a  great  trial  of  faith,  and  made  us  again 
ask,  Can  we  carry  on  this  mission  ?  Dare  we  help 
young  men  to  risk  life  thus?  We  were  thankful  to 
remember  that  we  had  earnestly  counselled  Appel 
to  work  in  Natal  for  a  few  years  before  he  went  to 
Congo,  thinking  him  too  young  for  the  climate.  He 
had  however  begged  so  earnestl}'  to  be  allowed  to  go 
with  Dr.  Sims,  that  the  council  consented  to  his  wish. 

After  we  had  studied  the  letters  giving  details  of 
this  fresh  catastrophe,  we  perceived  that  his  life  had 
indeed  been  in  one  sense  thrown  away,  and  that  with 
a  little  more  prudence  and  discretion,  it  might  in  all 
probability  have  been  preserved  for  many  a  }'ear. 

Dr.  Sims  reported  that  he  had,  in  his  usual  active, 
energetic  wa}',  exerted  himself  after  his  arrival,  ex- 
actl}-  as  if  he  had  been  at  home.  Just  before  his  fatal 
illness  he  had  walked  in  the  hot  sun  thirty-two  miles 
in  two  days,  climbing  by  rocky  and  difficult  paths 
from  sea-level  to  a  height  of  i,6oo  feet,  and  taking 
no  rest  afterwards.  He  had  been  advised  to  take 
less  exercise,  but  was  unwilling  to  be  idle.  The  result 
was  fever  !  He  was  taken  ill  at  nine  at  night  on 
Tuesday,  July  iSth,  and  gone  before  sunrise  on 
Saturday  !  He  was  doing  missionary  work  even  in 
this  brief  and  severe  illness,  pleading  with  the  "  boys" 
to  come  to  Christ,  rejoicing  in  Him  as  "the  wa}%  the 
truth,  and   the  life,"  "  the  only  way  for  me,  the  way  I 


348  CAUTION  REQUIHED   ON   THE   CONGO. 

am  taking,  the  one  I  am  trusting."  He  had  been 
looking  forward  with  great  joy  to  the  thought  of 
joining  Ingham  up  the  countr)'.  Now  he  said,  "Give 
my  love  to  Ingham  ;  tell  him  I  am  going  home  !  "  Dr. 
Sims  read  to  him,  "  Let  not  your  heart  be  troubled." 
"  No,"  he  said  ;  "  no  !  I  am  at  perfect  peace  !  I  am 
not  troubled  :  I  am  hai)py.  Jesus  has  gone  to  prepare 
a  place  for  mc.  I  am  going  there!  "  He  thought  of 
the  sorrow  his  death  would  give  at  home,  and  said 
of  one  he  loved,  "  It  will  break  her  heart  !  "  and  then, 
knowing  how  bitterly  we  should  feel  his  death,  he 
added  also,"  Poor  Mrs.  Guinness  !  "  Up  to  the  last  he 
seemed  pre-occupied  with  heavenly  things,  his  coun- 
tenance shining  with  a  light  and  a  brightness  that  were 
not  of  earth.  "  I  shall  soon  be  in  His  presence,"  he 
said,  and  asked  Miss  Spearing,  who  was  kindly  nursing 
him,  for  the  words  of  the  h}-mn, — 

"  Tlien,  Lord,  sliall  I  fully  know, 
Not  till  then  how  much   I  owe." 

His  illness  was  largely  attributable  to  over-exertion 
on  arrival.  It  is  very  difficult  for  strangers  to  the 
climate  to  realize  the  need  of  extreme  caution  on 
first  reaching  the  Congo.  They  feel  as  usual,  and 
fancy  they  may  safely  exert  themselves  as  usual.  A 
measure  of  excitement  amid  new  scenes,  the  eager 
desire  to  get  to  work,  the  very  enthusiasm  which 
grace  kindles  in  the  soul,  at  the  first  contact  with 
heathenism,  all  incite  the  young  missionary  to  im- 
mediate and  earnest  activity  ;  while  the  change  of 
climate  demands  quietness,  and  causes  even  moderate 


DEATH  THE  LAW  OF  FRUITFULNESS.  349 

exertion  to  be  attended  with  risk.  We  resolved  in 
future  to  lay  the  responsibility  of  caring  for  new 
arrivals  on  older  and  more  experienced  men,  and 
to  require  new  recruits  to  yield  to  the  guidance  of 
veterans.  Age  also  had  evidently  something  to  do 
with  the  sad  result  in  this  case.  Appel  was  young. 
Gordon  used  to  say,  "  Send  me  no  men  under  forty 
for  work  in  the  Soudan."  He  had  found  young  fellows 
break  down  quickly.  At  forty,  however,  the  learning 
of  a  language  would  be  difficult,  and  men  have  as 
a  rule  adopted  some  life-work  long  before  that  age, 
so  that  it  is  difficult  to  free  themselves  for  missionary 
service.  But  there  is  no  doubt  that  for  Central  Africa 
thirty  is  better  than  twenty,  and  that  men  of  forty 
have  a  very  good  chance  indeed  of  escaping  illness. 

Times  of  discouragement  and  deep  depression 
occur  in  the  history  of  all  such  enterprises  for  the 
redemption  of  men.  Very  wonderful  is  the  uniform 
prevalence  of  that  great  law  of  which  the  sufferings 
"  even  unto  death "  of  our  blessed  Lord  Himself 
were  the  greatest  example.  He  announced  the  law, 
though  He  did  not  explain  the  reason  and  ground 
of  it :  "  Except  a  corn  of  wheat  fall  into  the  ground 
and  die,  it  abideth  alone  ;  but  if  it  die,  it  bringeth 
forth  much  fruit." 

Life  comes  out  of  death  ;  travail  is  the  law  of 
fruitfulness  ;  nature  herself  teaches  the  lesson.  The 
preservation  of  the  individual  is  in  the  inverse  ratio 
to  the  growth  and  improvement  of  the  race. 
Every  great  advance  issues  from  catastrophe  and 
trouble.     The   regeneration   of  Africa  is   and  will  be 


350     LIVINGSTONE'S  DA  V  OF  DISCOURAGEMENT. 


no  exception  to  the  great  law  wliose  raison  d'etre  wc 
shall  understand  when  the  mists  have  rolled  awa}'. 
For  the  present  we  have  but  to  bow  to  it,  and  they 
are  wise  who  reckon  beforehand  on  its  operation. 

Such  a  day  of  deadly  discouragement  and  difficulty 
came  to  David  Livingstone,  when — after  all  his  long 
labours  and  bright  hopes  for  the  Christian  coloniza- 
tion of  the  healthful  Shire  highlands — a  combination 
of  untoward  incidents  foiled  all  his  well-laid  plans, 
and  brought  painful  defeat  instead  of  hoped  for 
success.  The  frequent  detentions  of  the  Pioneer  by 
sandbanks  made  it  impossible  to  keep  appointments 
with  ocean  steamers.  The  Universities  Mission  got 
into  collision  with  the  natives.  Bishop  Mackenzie 
and  J\Ir.  Burrup  died  just  when  the  sister  of  the 
former  and  the  wife  of  the  latter  had  arrived.  Several 
members  of  the  mission  retired.  He  had  heard  of  the 
death  of  the  Helmores  at  Linyanti,  and  the  with- 
drawal of  their  colleagues  also.  Other  trials  were 
pressing  on  him.  All  seemed  dark  around  him,  every- 
thing going  wrong  ;  and  then — detained  in  the  Zam- 
besi lowlands  by  one  of  the  frequent  and  unavoidable 
contretemps — calamity  came  still  nearer  to  his  heart, 
and  his  beloved  "  ]Mary,"  the  brave  and  loving  wife 
with  whom  he  had  hoped  to  make  and  share  a  home, 
at  last,  stricken  with  the  fatal  fever,  drooped  and 
died  !  He  had  to  dig  her  grave  under  the  big  bao- 
bab tree  at  Shupanga,  just  when  he  was  hoping  to 
enjoy  her  society  after  their  past  frequent  long  and 
painful  separations. 

What  wonder  that,  brave  hero  though  he  wa.s,  he 


"BY  GOD'S  HELP— FORWARD  I"  351 

wrote,  "  For  the  first  time  in  my  life,  I  feel  willing  to 
die  "  !  What  wonder  that  his  heart  was  broken,  and 
that  he  found  it  difficult  to  say.  Blessed  be  the  name 
of  the  Lord  I  What  wonder  that  to  buckle  on  his 
armour  and  renew  the  fierce  struggle  with  such  a 
legion  of  obstacles  seemed  almost  more  than  he 
could  do  ?  So  far,  all  his  great  and  costly  discoveries 
had  apparently  only  issued  in  an  increase  of  the  cruel 
slave-trade,  and  the  Portuguese  were  freely  aiding  and 
abetting  it.  The  country  was  already  depopulated  in 
some  places  by  their  raids ;  skeletons  greeted  his 
eyes  on  the  road,  slave  corpses  entangled  his  paddle 
wheels  on  the  river  ;  his  heart  was  riven  with  anguish. 
He  was  powerless,  and  iniquity  was  triumphant !  His 
best  efforts  seemed  frustrated,  his  expedition  was  re- 
called by  Government,  and  with  bitter  pain  he  had  to 
leave  900  miles  of  the  coast  which  he  had  longed  to 
deliver,  to  the  Portuguese  and  the  slave-traders  !  Could 
anything  have  looked  darker  or  more  disappointing  ? 
Yet  the  brave  heart  failed  not,  and  Africa  to-day  is 
reaping,  and  tJirougJi  coming  ages  wi/i  reap,  the  fruit 
of  his  fidelity  unto  death. 

The  dear  missionaries  on  the  Congo  similar]}' 
cheered  our  hearts  and  strengthened  our  hands  by 
writing  after  the  sad  events  we  have  here  chronicled  : 
"  We  are  not  in  the  least  daunted  by  these  deaths  J 
Foriuard  is  the  order,  and,  by  God  s  help,  forward  loe 
will  go  .'" 

Dr.  Sims  had  no  sooner  reached  Banana  than  his 
medical  help  was  needed  in  the  very  severe  illness  of 
Mr.  Billincrton.     He  had  a  bad   attack  of  ha^maturic 


352  DEATH  OF  TiVO   COLOURED  LADS. 

fever,  and  his  life  was  in  danger,  but  careful  attention 
and  nursing  so  far  restored  him  that  it  was  possible 
to  send  him  home  to  recruit.  Mr.  Engvall  also 
broke  down,  but  in  quite  a  different  way.  He  be- 
came aiKLMTiic,  the  skin  colourless,  the  strength  so 
reduced  that  he  could  not  cross  the  room  ;  the  heart 
severely  affected,  and  no  medicine  produced  any 
amelioration.  He  was  carried  to  the  ship  apparently 
a  dying  man,  but  rallied  on  the  voyage,  and  has  been 
doing  good  service  ever  since  in  his  own  northern 
climate,  on  the  Ural  Mountains,  and  in  Cronstadt. 
Mr.  Waters  also  found  it  impossible  to  acclimatise,  and 
had  to  give  up  the  Congo  ;  and  Joe  Angus  the  sailor 
was  also  invalided  home. 

The  two  dear  coloured  lads,  John  Mack  and 
William  Faithful,  who  had  joined  the  mission  as 
helpers,  had  spent  many  years  in  England  and 'Scot- 
land, having  been  taken  over  by  captains  in  childhood. 
They  had  been  for  a  year  or  two  with  us  in  the 
Institute,  and  had  quite  endeared  themselves  to  us 
by  their  gentle  Christian  characters  and  earnest,  con- 
sistent piety.  We  had  hoped  much  from  their  in- 
fluence in  Africa.  Just  before  they  left  however 
both  had  contracted  inflammation  on  the  lungs,  and 
been  dangerously  ill.  A  return  to  their  own  climate 
(the  West  Coast)  was  advised  as  affording  the  only 
chance  for  recovery,  and  they  had  sailed  in  May. 
Neither,  alas!  survived  the  summer  !  Willie  sank  first, 
and  John  went  into  consumption,  and  died  at  Banana 
in  October.  We  grieved  greatly  over  the  loss  of  these 
dear  lads,  though  to  them  death  was  only  gain.    They 


IN  MEMORIAM. 


353 


passed  peacefully  away,  and  the  little  cemetery  at 
Banana  holds  their  remains.  But  the  Congo  climate 
is  not  in  the  least  to  blame  in  their  cases,  as  they 
would  have  died  only  the  sooner  had  they  stayed  in 
England. 


i^ 


5a 


t]^£2  rest  front  tfjei'r  labours ; 


Jrf  inc  suffrr,  inc  sf}an  also  reign  null)  |i]fm. 


C.  A.  23 


CHAPTER    IX. 
LEOPOLD  VILLE  AND  THE  UPPER  CONGO. 

The  fifth  year  of  the  mission,  1883,  was  more 
encouraging  than  any  previous  one,  though  not  with- 
out its  sorrows  to  some  hearts  on  the  Congo.  Lest 
our  story  grow  too  long,  we  must  epitomise  briefly 
its  events. 

Dr.  Sims  had  by  this  time  reached  the  upper 
river,  and  had  obtained  from  Mr.  Stanley,  whom  he 
met  on  his  way  up  at  Manyanga,  a  piece  of  land  for 
a  station  in  the  new  settlement  of  Leopoldville,  which 
was  already  becoming  a  considerable  village,  the  first 
European  settlement  on  the  Upper  Congo.  To  us 
it  was  of  course  a  place  of  profound  interest,  the  key 
of  Central  Africa,  the  goal  of  five  years'  arduous 
labour,  the  starting-point  of  a  navigable  water-way 
extending  for  many  many  thousands  of  miles  all 
over  the  interior  of  the  Dark  Continent — of  a  road 
that  was  practicable  and  open,  and  on  which  the 
mission  could  be  independent  of  gangs  of  carriers 
The  past  experience  of  our  mission  had  immensely 
enhanced  our  appreciation  of  the  value  of  such  a 
road ! 

355 


356     VALUE   OF  WATER-WAY  IN  CENTRAL   AFRICA. 

In  a  dangerous  climate  and  a  country  destitute 
of  roads  and  of  all  means  of  locomotion,  as  is  the 
whole  of  Central  Africa,  a  navigable  water-way  is 
simply  invaluable.  Oh  the  money,  the  time,  the  lives, 
that  had  been  spent  in  penetrating  only  330  miles  by 
land  !  When  would  the  heart  of  Africa  be  reached 
at  that  rate  ?  Never !  But  with  a  steamer  once 
launched  on  the  upper  waters,  the  continent  was 
open,  and  stations  one  or  two  hundred  miles  apart 
would  be  practically  nearer  together  than  those  only 
thirty  or  forty  miles  distant  from  each  other  in  the 
Cataract  Gorge. 

With  the  location  of  Dr.  Sims,  Mr.  Banks,  and  Mr. 
Pettersen  at  Stanley  Pool,  and  the  erection  of  a  good 
station  there,  the  first  task  of  our  mission  was  accom- 
plished. The  doubtful  dream  of  1878  had  become 
the  accomplished  fact  of  1S83.  A  chain  of  stations 
had  been  formed  past  the  Middle  Congo,  the  various 
tribes  on  the  road  had  been  conciliated,  the  language 
had  been  learned,  and  some  spiritual  fruit  had  been 
reaped.  By  the  now  open  access  the  heralds  of  sal- 
vation should  follow  each  other  even  to  the  end  of  the 
age  ;  the  millions  of  the  great  interior  were  no  longer 
beyond  the  reach  of  Christ's  ambassadors  ! 

Our  hearts  were  filled  with  thanksgivings  to  God, 
and  with  hopeful  courage  we  addressed  ourselves  to 
the  next  section  of  our  task — the  transportation  of 
the  steamer  from  London  to  Stanley  Pool,  and  her 
reconstruction  and  launch  there.  Already  Mr.  Craven 
had  taken  out  and  distributed  at  the  different  stations 


THE    "HENRY  REED."  357 

en  route  stores  of  various  kinds  to  pay  the  gangs 
of  carriers  ;  and  while  the  brethren  at  the  Pool 
were  preparing  houses  for  the  workmen,  stores  for 
the  material  of  the  boat  and  for  the  barter  goods 
for  wages,  and  a  shed  in  which  to  build  her,  the 
Henry  Reed  herself  was  in  course  of  construction  on 
the  banks  of  the  Thames.  Happily  Mr.  Billington, 
who  had  been  an  engineer  before  he  became  a  mis- 
sionary, was  in  England  at  the  time,  and  fast  regaining 
health  and  strength.  So  he  was  able  to  superintend 
the  works,  and  his  service  in  this  line  for  several 
months  was  invaluable.  By  midsummer  she  was 
ready  to  launch,  and  to  make  a  trial  trip.  And  we 
must  now  give  a  few  particulars  of 

The  Mission  Steamer. 

The  Henry  Reed  is  a  flexible  steel  boat,  and  was 
necessarily  constructed  to  take  to  pieces,  be  trans- 
ported in  plates  and  portions,  and  put  together  again 
at  Stanley  Pool.  She  is  seventy-one  feet  long  by 
ten  feet  beam,  and  three  feet  deep,  with  a  draught 
of  only  twelve  or  fourteen  inches.  It  must  be  re- 
membered that  the  Upper  Congo  spreads  out  in 
some  parts  of  its  course  to  an  enormous  width,  so 
that  its  waters  become  proportionately  shallow,  and 
full  of  islands  and  sandbanks.  Skilful  pilotage  might 
always  find  deep  water,  but  tJiat  cannot  at  times 
be  obtained  ;  the  channels  have  to  be  learned  by 
experience,  and  running  aground  is  a  tedious  and 
often  a  dangerous  matter.  So  it  was  needful  that 
the  draught  should  be  as  little  as  possible.      With 


358  SIXTEEN  THOUSAND  RIVETS. 


two  and  a  half  tons  of  fuel  on  board  she  draws  four- 
teen inches  only,  and  has  a  displacement  and  conse- 
quently a  carrying  power  of  sixteen  tons.  She  is 
fitted  with  a  stern  paddle  wheel,  this  mode  of  pro- 
pulsion being,  after  mature  consideration,  considered 
better  than  twin  screws  for  so  light  draughted  a 
vessel,  and  for  a  river  in  which  floating  weed  and 
wood  abound,  and  huge  hippopotami  are  constantly 
encountered.  She  is  covered  from  stem  to  stern  with 
an  awning  to  protect  her  from  the  sun,  and  has  a  nice 
little  cabin  adapted  to  be  the  temporary  home  of 
three  or  four  missionaries.  Her  machinery  is  simple 
and  easily  managed,  a  great  point  where  unskilled 
labour  has  to  be  employed  ;  and  her  furnace  is  made 
specially  large  to  burn  wood.  Her  speed  is  about 
ten  miles  an  hour,  with  80  lbs.  pressure ;  but  as  her 
boiler  is  constructed,  according  to  Board  of  Trade 
requirements,  to  work  up  to  100  lbs.  pressure,  she  can 
on  an  emergency  go  at  a  greater  rate. 

It  was  no  easy  matter  to  carry  all  this  up  over 
rocky  mountain  paths  and  through  many  a  rushing, 
bridgeless  river  for  hundreds  of  miles  !  The  weight 
of  the  boat  and  machinery  complete  was  about  four- 
teen tons — over  500  man  loads.  It  was  an  equally 
difficult  thing  to  rebuild  her  under  African  suns  on 
the  Upper  Congo.  There  were  sixteen  thousand 
rivets  to  be  driven  in  order  to  bolt  her  hundred  and 
sixty  plates  into  one  vessel  again.  Easy  enough 
work  this  for  shipbuilders  in  England,  but  pretty 
serious  for  amateurs  in  Africa !  Then  there  was  the 
machinery  and  all  the  internal   fittings  to  be  recon- 


lli:i|l!l|i|  !lll  illiiFii' 


36o  THE   '^  HENRY  REED"  SENT  OUT. 

structcd,  and  the  vessel  to  be  painted  with  several 
coats  to  resist  the  water  action  of  the  tropics.  But  it 
was  well  worth  the  while  ;  the  work  was  for  Christ's 
sake  and  the  gospel's.  The  task  was  undertaken  con 
amove  by  willing  workers,  and,  thank  God  !  in  due 
time  successfully  accomplished,  though  not  this  year. 

It  was  not  indeed  until  the  month  of  November 
that  Mr.  Billington's  long  supervision  came  to  an 
end,  and  that,  having  seen  himself  to  the  packing  as 
well  as  to  the  building  and  the  testing,  he  was  able 
to  despatch  his  precious  cargo  to  Rotterdam,  to  be 
embarked  for  Banana  on  the  Dutch  steamer  yJ/r//'rt^?//, 
by  which  he  and  his  young  wife,  and  Mr.  Harvey — 
who  was  also  returning,  and  Vemba  and  Nkoiyo,  the 
two  native  lads  in  his  care — also  took  passage.  Mr. 
Insell,  a  new  missionary,  who  would  also,  it  was 
hoped,  be  helpful  in  the  reconstruction,  for  which 
previous  experience  had  fitted  him,  followed  by 
another  ship  a  week  later,  and  all  reached  the  Congo 
about  Christmas. 

In  describing  their  voyage  out  Mr.  Harvey  men- 
tions an  interesting  trait  in  the  character  of  the  boys 
who  accompanied  him  on  his  return. 

The  first  two  Sundays  we  were  more  or  less  unwell,  and  contented 
ourselves  consequently  with  merely  distributing  tracts  and  Testaments. 
On  the  third  Sunday  we  were  better,  and  felt  strongly  that  it  was  a 
pity  we  could  not  hold  a  service  of  some  kind.  The  matter  evidently 
weighed  on  Vemba's  mind,  for  he  came  to  us  with  his  face  all  shaded 
over,  looking  as  he  generally  does  when  anything  troubles  him.  "  Holloa, 
Vemba,  what's  the  matter?"  "Oh,  please,  sir,  why  don't  captain 
make  a  church  for  sailors  on  Sunday?  They  sit,  and  do  not  know  what 
to  do.  They  sew  clothes,  and  read,  but  I  am  sure  they  would  like  to 
hear  J/aw^(?  Man  Zamln  (words,  about  God)."     "But,  Vemba,  only 


''MAMBA    MAN  ZAMBIA'  361 

two  or  three  of  them  could  understand  us,  if  we  held  a  service."  He 
agreed  that  there  were  not  many  who  understood  English,  but  still  he 
thought  a  great  many  would  gather  somethiug  of  what  would  he  said. 

Feeling  pleased  at  the  anxiety  of  the  boy  for  the  souls  of  the  crew,  we 
determined  to  err  on  the  right  side,  and  get  the  captain  to  allow  us  to 
hold  a  service  on  the  fore-deck.  We  took  Billington's  portable  har- 
monium, and  were  pleased  to  find  that  not  only  the  crew,  but  the 
captain,  officers,  and  passengers  attended,  and  showed  every  sign  of 
giving  respectful  heed  to  what  was  said.  They  were  much  pleased  with 
Sankey's  hymns,  which  were  mostly  new  to  them.  At  the  end  of 
the  service,  no  one  offered  to  go  away,  and  some  asked  us  to  sing  more 
hymns.  Many  of  the  sailors  and  passengers  joined  in  the  singing,  some 
musically,  and  others  making  up  in  heartiness  for  what  they  lacked  in 
discretion.  The  dear  boys  gave  many  signs  of  spiritual  life  during  the 
voyage.  There  were  two  other  Congo  boys  on  board.  Vemba  and 
Nkoiyo  soon  began  to  teach  them  the  Mamba  Man  Zainbi,  and 
arranged  with  Billington  and  myself  to  take  them  in  a  kind  of  Bible- 
class  with  themselves  in  the  boys'  cabin  every  evening.  We  are  hoping 
they  will  continue  to  show  earnestness  when  they  get  back  among  their 
own  relations  and  friends. 

This  they  did  ;  their  influence  over  other  boys  on 
their  return  was  great  and  good.  Nkoiyo  has  since 
gone  to  America  to  finish  his  education,  and  has 
turned  out  a  very  intelhgent  Christian  man.  He  has 
translated  into  Ki-Congo  the  Book  of  Acts  and  the 
First  Epistle  of  John,  and  is  beloved  and  esteemed  by 
all  who  know  him.  Vemba  has  become  a  most  useful 
evangelist,  interpreting  for  new  missionaries  as  well 
as  speaking  himself  He  has  naturally  considerable 
power  as  an  orator,  and  a  real  love  of  the  gospel  in 
addition. 

In  August  of  this  year  three  new  missionaries,  all 
students  from  the  Institute,  joined  the  staff  in  Africa, 
two  of  them  young  sisters  engaged  to  be  married 
to  missionaries  already  in  the  field. — Mr.  Eddie,  Miss 
Neale,  and  Miss  Lanham.     By  this  time   it  was  pos- 


362  THREE  MISSIONARY  MARRIAGES. 

siblc  to  marry  on  the  Congo.  Immediately  on  reach- 
ing Banana,  the  party  crossed  in  an  open  boat  to 
Mukimvika,  accompanied  by  the  Rev.  G.  Grenfell  of 
the  B.M.S.  Mr.  White  and  Miss  Neale  were  married 
the  same  day,  and  a  little  later  Mr.  Ingham  came 
down  and  was  married  to  Miss  Lanham.  Both  these 
sisters  are  still  living,  and  labouring  most  successfully 
on  the  Congo.  Mrs.  Ingham  has  been  remarkably 
happy  in  her  school-work  among  the  young  people 
at  Lukunga,  and  in  many  ways  a  real  help  to  the 
mission.  Mrs.  White  wrote  to  us  of  the  astonishment 
of  her  dark-skinned  sisters  at  the  first  white  woman 
they  had  ever  seen,  and  especially  at  her  hair  !  No- 
thing would  satisfy  them  till  she  let  it  down  to  its  full 
length,  when  they  expatiated  volubly  on  the  wonder- 
ful spectacle  !  She  was  invited  to  visit  the  "  queen  " 
of  the  country,  and  even  to  dine  with  her,  and  did  so, 
the  "  king  "  himself  waiting  on  them  on  the  occasion. 

The  "  Mukimvika  "  Station,  alluded  to  above,  was, 
it  should  be  stated,  Banana  station  moved  over  to  the 
south  side  of  the  month  of  the  Congo.  Experience 
seemed  to  prove  Banana  itself  unhealthy  ;  it  lies  low, 
and  has  bad  odours  from  the  decaying  vegetation  of 
the  creek.  The  natives  were  less  accessible  than 
had  been  hoped,  the  trade  influence  strong,  and  the 
demoralization  from  drink  great.  Mukimvika  is  quite 
a  sanatorium  on  a  cliff  high  above  the  sea,  and  with 
native  villages  all  round.  In  many  of  these  the  idols 
have  already  been  thrown  away,  and  a  medical  mis- 
sion is  now  established  among  these  people  under  the 


HEATHEN  SUPERSTITION.  363 

care  of  Dr.  Scholcs,  a  coloured  physician.  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Billington  were  detained  awhile  at  this  station, 
and  the  former  wrote  favourably  of  the  place  : 

Your  suggestion  ot  sending  new  bretliren  here  on  first  arrival  is  very 
judicious,  and  ought,  if  possible,  to  ho.  carried  into  effect.  A  stay  here 
would  be  most  advantageous  to  them  as  regards  health,  and  much  good 
is  being  done  here.  I  certainly  think  this  will  become  a  very  success- 
ful centre  of  mission  work.  Mr.  White  has  ten  native  lads  with  him, 
and  will  soon  have  many  more.  We  have  visited  several  towns,  preacli- 
ing  the  gospel  through  Vemba  and  Nkoiyo  to  very  attentive  audiences. 
The  people  seem  to  be  glad  to  see  us  and  to  hear  the  word,  but  those 
who  fear  their  craft  is  at  stake  of  course  object.  How  it  would  sadden 
your  hearts  to  see  and  talk  with  these  people,  with  whom  the  devil 
seems  to  have  it  all  his  own  way  !  Within  the  last  few  weeks  several 
have  been  poisoned  and  burned,  and  while  we  were  visiting  the  town, 
the  last  two  days  the  nganga  drums  were  being  beaten,  and  new  efforts 
made  for  the  discovery  of  other  victims  to  satisfy  the  cruel  and  super- 
stitious minds  of  the  natives, 

Leopoldville,  1883. 
The  new  station  at  Stanley  Pool,  completed  in  the 
summer,  consisted  of  five  or  six  houses.  They  were 
built  of  poles  cut  from  small  trees,  the  walls  being 
made  of  interwoven  palm  branches  and  grass.  There 
were, — 

1.  One  good  three-roomed  house  for  a  married 
missionary,  with  a  good  verandah  all  round,  and  a 
cook-house  apart,  fenced  round,  and  separate  from  the 
rest,  so  as  to  secure  privacy. 

2.  A  well-built  house  for  one  or  two  single  mis- 
sionaries, with  verandah  in  front  only. 

3.  A  building  to  be  used  as  store  for  the  Henry 
Reed  goods,  and  afterwards  as  a  school,  general  store, 
and  a  cook-house. 


364  LEOPOLDVILLE  STATIOA. 

4.  Two  houses  for  native  boys  or  labourers. 

5.  A  general  store. 

6.  A  cook-house  or  kitchen. 

Mr.  Pettersen,  the  Swede,  who  had  planned  these 
houses  and  superintended  their  construction,  was  often 
tried  by  lack  of  resources,  and  sometimes  by  sickness. 
But  he  enjoyed  his  work  notwithstanding,  and  did 
not  forget  his  missionary  vocation  even  while  busy  as 
architect  and  builder  under  difficulties.  He  wrote 
translations  of  simple  hymns  for  his  evening  school  or 
meeting,  for  adults  as  well  as  children  came  to  the 
meetings,  which  he  described  as  "  very  cheering  and 
dear  to  me."  "  This  week  I  have  been  speaking  to 
them  about  the  resurrection  of  Christ,  and  about  His 
second  coming,  and  the  resurrection  of  the  dead. 
These  truths  have  deeply  impressed  their  minds,  and 
there  has  been  much  earnest  asking  and  inquiring 
about  these  things.  Several  have  said  they  would 
wish  to  be  Christians,  and  I  often  hear  them  singing 
the  hymns,  instead  of  their  native  songs." 

The  station,  which  has  about  eight  acres  of  ground 
belonging  to  it,  was  finished  in  July,  and  Mr.  Stanley 
on  his  return  to  Leopoldville  was  pleased  with  the 
progress  made.  He  wrote  to  us  :  "  We  live  w^ell  and 
happily  here  at  Leopoldville.  I  have  no  reason  to 
regret  having  given  ground  to  your  mission.  Dr. 
Sims  has  a  fine  site  ;  his  mission  place  is  compact, 
neat,  well-regulated,  /  may  say  the  most  complete  affait 
I  have  seen  on  the  Congo  ;  all  done  without  flurry,  dis- 
cord, or  noise.  Though  he  is  about  half  a  mile  from 
the  river,  yet  he  has  equal  share  with  us  in   the  land- 


A    GOOD    WORD  FROM  MR.  STANLEY.  365 


THE  STATION,    LEOPOLDVILLE,    STANLEY   POOL, 


ing  place  and  port,  and  his  steamer  can  lie  side  by 
side  with  our  own,  guarded  by  our  people.  There  is 
no  necessity  for  me  to  reiterate  the  assurance  of  my 
keenest  sympathy  with  mission  work.  .  .  .  Every 
assistance  I  can  give  will  be  ungrudgingly  given  to 
the  cause  for  which,  I  believe,  we  are  all  working." 

As  borne  by  one  who  had  seen  so  many  Congo 
stations  erected,  we  considered  this  a  high  encomium 
on  the  labours  of  our  brethren. 

Meanwhile  Dr.  Sims  had  been  making  good  pro- 
gress in  another  direction,  the  study  of  the  people 
and  of  the  language,  or  rather,  the  peoples  and  their 
languages,  for  both  are  in  the  plural  at  Stanley  Pool. 
We    must    not    reproduce    his    long    and    interesting 


366  LIFE  AT  STAX/.EV  POOL. 

accounts  of  both  here,  but  may  give  the  following 
letter  to  a  young  friend,  which  gives  a  good  picture 
of  life  at  Stanley  Pool  in  1883  : 

I  must  tell  you  something  of  the  Pool.  At  this  moment,  though  the 
beginning  of  the  rainy  season,  the  weather  is  bright  and  rainless,  the 
sky  half  clouded,  and  the  thermometer  at  87°. 

At  the  quarters  of  the  expedition  below  me  all  is  animation  and 
work;  150  Hausas  and  some  Zanzibariles  are  singing  in  chorus  while 
removing  the  base  of  a  large  hill  in  the  construction  of  an  immense 
terrace,  a  sort  of  Place  de  la  Concorde,  as  Stanley  calls  it.  Others  are 
constructing  houses  for  the  newly  arrived  Hausas.  A  little  time  back 
thirty  Zanzibariles  carried  by  a  huge  tree  to  the  saw-pits. 

At  the  commercial  agent's  house  there  is  work  enough,  for  120 
carriers  or  more  have  just  come  in,  bearing  cloth,  brass  rods,  barrels,  and 
boxes.  This  will  all  want  checking  and  the  men  paying  off,  and  in 
another  room  there  are  dozens  of  Batekes,  Bayansi,  Babuma,  Bawumbu, 
Bambuno,  and  Bakungu,  all  struggling,  talking,  examining  cloth,  ex- 
changing their  brass  rods  for  what  they  want,  etc.  Trade  is  not  done 
here  yet,  though  occasionally  a  tusk  may  be  bought. 

Along  the  public  road  are  dozens  of  men,  women,  and  girls,  coming 
or  returning,  mostly  with  food  for  the  expedition.  They  come  from  a 
distance  of  fifteen  or  twenty  miles,  where  the  great  cassava  fields  are. 
At  the  dwelling  and  dining  house  I  see  nothing  going  forward.  The 
chief  is  probably  resting  or  busy  writing  despatches.  In  one  of  the 
rooms  there  is  a  poor  sick  Englishman — Tapp,  an  engineer  from 
Forrest's,  whom  you  will  remember. 

At  the  top  of  the  hill  is  the  small  watch-house  of  the  expedition. 
Just  now  school  is  being  conducted  over  at  Comber's  by  Brother 
Moolinaar  with  six  or  seven  Congo  boys.  Bentley  will  be  studying 
Bateke  or  Bakungu,  while  Comber  himself  will  be  superintending  the 
erection  of  the  house  in  which  the  Peace  is  to  be  built ;  she  will  be  all 
up  here  in  a  week  or  two.  Here  at  our  own  little  place  the  two 
carpenters  are  hard  at  work  making  a  bedstead  for  Mr.  Banks,  whom 
I  am  expecting  up  here  with  Pettersen  every  hour. 

A  mission  boy  and  one  of  our  servants  are  busily  making  a  new  fowl- 
house,  for  just  at  present  fowls  are  very  abundant  and  moderate  in 
price,  as  also  are  other  provisions.  I  have  something  like  fifty  fowls 
in  the  old  house,  which  is  consequently  somewhat  of  a  "Black  Hole" 
to  them  from  overcrowding,  but  when  Banks  and  Pettersen  return 
there  will  soon  be  little  need  of  a  second  fowl-house! 


LETTER    FROM  DR.    SIMS. 


367 


The  place  is  filled  with  conversation,  for  about  fifteen  women  are 
shading  themselves  under  one  of  the  stores,  waiting  to  sell  their  native 
bread.  Our  other  servants  are  hoeing  ground  for  maize  and  rice  in  the 
valley  garden  ;  these,  with  a  small  Muyansi  boy  and  a  dirty  cook's  boy, 
make  up  the  household,  and  represent  the  activities  of  the  hour. 
Besides  the  fowls,  I  have  nine  goats  tethered  outside  the  fence. 

The  towns  at  my  left  are  fairly  quiet  ;  the  women  returning  from  the 
fields  where  they  have  been  cultivating,  and  market  people  streaming 
in  for  the  market  of  to-morrow  morning,  which  commences  at  sunrise  ; 
the  Bayansi  and  Babuma  meanwhile  doing  a  small  trade  in  peanuts,  fish, 
and  oil. 

The  surface  of  the  river  in  front  of  my  window  is  ruffled  by  a  slight 
breeze.  There  are  only  a  few  canoes  on  its  looking-glass-like  surface. 
By-and-by  I  shall  hear  the  "  hippos  "  ;  as  evening  comes  on  they  grunt 
to  perfection.  Opposite  I  see  Mfwa,  where  ought  to  be  Brazzaville, 
but  there  are  no  white  men  to  direct  my  thoughts  to,  for  priest  and 
soldier  have  alike  cleared  out,  to  where  we  know  not.  At  Kinchassa, 
which  I  can  likewise  see,  the  Englishman,  Mr.  Swinburne,  is  building 
a  house  and  holding  his  own  against  the  hungry,  selfish,  troublesome 
hordes.  Farther  away  is  the  great  Pool,  all  quiet  in  the  reflection  of 
its  numerous  islands. 


Though  busy  with  linguistic  studies,  Dr.  Sims  did 
not  forget  that  the  great  interior,  and  not  the  Pool 
itself,  was  our  object. 
He  wrote : 

I  want  very  much  to  go 
and  establish  a  new  station 
on  the  Upper  Congo,  and  am 
only  waiting  for  the  sectional 
boat  and  the  Kroo-boys.  I 
am  constantly  thinking  of  the 
"regions  beyond,"  of  whose 
inhabitants,  Bayansi,  Bateke, 

Banuna,     Balolo,     Bangala,  _ 

Bawumbu,  and  Babuma,  we  ^     "~^ 

hear  and  see  plenty  here.  The  ""^^ 

Lord  grant  the    opportunity 
of   establishing    teachers   ot     a  native  of  iboko,  upper  congo. 


36? 


TRAVELLING    WITH  MR.  STANLEY.  3^9 


the  truth  in  their  midst  may  soon  come  !  At  present  I  am  workmg 
at  the  languages,  which  are  strange  and  difficult  enough  ;  ministering 
to  those  in  the  house,  giving  a  little  medicine  now  and  then,  and 
'putting  in  a  word  here  and  there  as  opportunity  offers. 

The  country  is  quiet ;  the  men  fully  occupied  with  trade,  and  the 
women,  since  the  rains  have  come,  in  planting.  I  have  sent  for  rice, 
and  am  going  to  plant  some  to  save  importation. 

On  the  return  of  his  colleagues,  Messrs.  Banks  and 
Pettersen,  he  started  in  a  native  canoe,  and  made  a 
two  months'  voyage  on  the  upper  river,  visiting  many 
places  and  going  as  far  as  Bolobo.  He  decided  on 
a  spot  which  he  thought  would  be  advantageous  for 
our  first  up-river  station. 

"I  came  back,"  he  writes,  "with  Mr.  Stanley,  who  has  arrived 
here  from  his  great  journey  of  five  months'  exploration  and  work  past 
the  equator  and  in  the  Aruwimi  River.  The  Congo  is  now,  as  he 
says,  practically  open  right  up  to  the  Stanley  Falls,  where,  as  well  as 
at  the  equator,  he  has  founded  stations  and  left  white  men  in  charge ; 
and  to  his  credit,  as  well  as  to  God's  glory,  be  it  said,  withotit  lifting  a 
gun  or  cocking  a  trigger!  With  other  dangerous  and  savage  tribes  he 
has  concluded  treaties,  thus  opening  the  river  to  all.  He  has  returned, 
I  am  thankful  to  say,  perfectly  well.  His  kindness  to  me  has  been 
very  great ;  he  has  shown  hospitality,  given  me  passages  and  help  in 
many  ways,  and  especially  he  has  committed  to  our  charge  a  fine  boy, 
brought  from  the  Aruwimi,  rescued  from  the  Arabs,  whom  he  found  in 
force  there.  He  has  given  one  to  Mr.  Comber  likewise.  I  got  another 
boy  from  the  Arabs  myself,  when  they  came  here.  You  will  doubtless 
learn  more  of  his  trip  from  the  papers.  He  ever  has,  and  still  docs 
show  himself  the  good  and  kind  man  I  have  ever  thought  him  to  be." 

The  health  of  the  missionaries  was  much  better 
this  year  than  in  any  previous  one.  Mr.  Picton  wrote 
from  Palabala  that  he  had  been  perfectly  well  for 
nine  months,  and  attributed  the  fact  to  great  care  as 
to  diet,  which  Mr.  Craven  had  advised,  and  which  he 
believed  to  be  the  main  secret  in  preserving  health. 

C.    A.  24 


370  ''TOPSY." 

Mr.  White  similarly  wrote :  "  I  am  happy  to  tell 
you  that  we  have  had  no  fever  here  since  I  was 
joined  by  my  wife  ;  in  fact,  none  who  have  been  here 
have  been  ill,  the  place  seems  quite  a  sanatorium." 
Other  stations  were  not  quite  so  favoured  as  this, 
but  there  icere  no  fatal  illnesses  anyivliere — the  first 
time  for  three  years  in  which  this  could  be  said. 

A  death  took  place  at  Palabala  however  in  Oc- 
tober, though  not  that  of  one  of  the  missionaries.  Yet 
the  story  of  it  moved  our  hearts,  and  it  was  probably 

The  First  Death  of  a  Christian  Native. 

The  earliest  convert  of  the  mission  to  "  depart  and 
be  with  Christ "  w^as  the  little  maid  whom  many  friends 
will  remember — the  child  of  old  Kangampaka,  brought 
to  England  with  them  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Craven — 
Launda,  or,  as  we  used  to  call  her  from  her  funny 
little  black  face  and  twinkling  eyes,  "Topsy." 

The  news  of  her  death  reached  us  on  the  morning 
of  Christmas  Day.  We  read  the  story  of  the  dear 
child's  brief  and  fatal  illness,  and  of  her  quiet,  peace- 
ful falling  asleep,  and  our  eyes  filled  with  tears  of  joy 
as  we  remembered  the  angels'  song  at  the  birth  of 
the  Babe  of  Bethlehem.  It  was  "peace  on  earth',' 
not  only  in  England  ;  "  good  will  towards  w^//,"  not 
towards  white  men  merely  ! 

Born  and  buried  on  the  banks  of  the  Congo,  amid 
dark  and  degraded  heathen  surroundings,  this  little 
waif  of  humanity,  though  ruined,  had  been  redeemed 
like  ourselves,  at  the  cost  of  the  incarnation  and  death 
of  the  Son  of  God. 


LAUNDA'S  BRIEF  HISTORY.  571 

In  the  sight  of  heaven  there  is  not  perhaps  so 
great  a  difference  as  we  think  between  one  sinner 
and  another.  All  alike  are  saved  by  grace — all  alike 
need  to  be  created  anew  in  Christ  Jesus.  "  There  is 
no  difference  ;  all  have  sinned  and  come  short  ot  the 
glory  of  God,"  all  are  redeemed  to  one  and  the  same 
glorious  destiny,  and  in  the  salvation  of  each  and  all 
Christ  sees  of  the  travail  of  His  soul,  and  is  satisfied. 

It  was  joy  to  look  up  and  think  of  little  Launda 
in  heaven  !  We  quite  trust  she  had  received  Jesus 
in  her  heart.  She  spent  more  than  a  year  of  her 
brief  life  in  England,  and  between  three  and  four, 
altogether,  under  Christian  influence.  Mrs.  Craven 
had  taught  her  English,  and  trained  her  to  decent 
and  useful  habits  before  she  came  over  from  Africa, 
so  that  even  on  her  first  arrival  she  did  not  behave 
like  a  little  savage.  She  improved  much  while  in 
this  country,  was  quick  and  intelligent,  and  very 
merry,  sociable,  and  affectionate.  She  had,  during 
one  of  our  severe  winters,  a  serious  attack  of  inflam- 
mation of  the  lungs,  and  we  feared  that  she  would 
not  recover.  She  was  aware  that  her  life  was  in 
danger,  but  seemed  to  have  no  fear  of  death  ;  resting 
with  child-like  faith  on  the  promises  of  the  gospel. 
On  the  occasion  of  the  baptism  of  her  young  com- 
panions, Robert  and  Francis  Walker,  she  was  deeply 
impressed  and  moved,  and  earnestly  asked  to  be 
permitted  also  thus  to  confess  her  faith  in  Christ. 
She  was  so  young  however,  and  so  very  far  from 
being  perfect,  poor  little  pet !  that  it  was  thought 
better  to  postpone  baptism  awhile  in  her  case. 


372  A   FATAL  ATTACK    OF  TEIAA'US. 

On  her  return  home,  the  influences  of  surrounding 
heathenism  proved  a  snare  to  the  child,  and  she  was 
for  a  time  a  cause  of  much  trouble  and  anxiety  to 
her  kind  friends  the  missionaries.  But  her  conduct 
improved  again  latterly,  and  we  trust  she  was,  de- 
spite her  faults,  truly  a  babe  in  Christ.  The  following 
letter  from  Mr.  Craven  gives  the  particulars  of  the 
illness  and  death  of  little  Launda : 

Dear  Mrs.  Guinness, — 

How  comforting  it  is  to  know  that  we  are  in  the  hands  o 
God,  and  that  all  things  work  together  for  good  to  those  that  love 
Him  !  How  small  the  trials  and  difficulties  of  life  appear  when  we 
meet  them  in  the  spirit  of  God  ! 

For  some  time  the  following  texts  have  been  impressed  strongly  on 
my  mind,  "Be  careiul  for  nothing;  but  in  everything  by  prayer  and 
supplication  with  thanksgiving  let  your  requests  be  made  known  unto 
God";  and,  "Ye  are  the  salt  of  the  earth."  We  are  experiencing 
illustrations  of  this  in  every  town  and  village  brought  under  our  in- 
fluence here ;  and  it  is  cheering  to  us  to  see  that  our  labour  is  not 
in  vain,  if  it  be  only  in  the  prevention  of  gross  sin.  In  conversation, 
the  old  king  this  morning  remarked,  "  Vou  told  me  not  to  kill  people ; 
I  obeyed  you.  You  requested  me  not  to  drink  to  excess  ;  I  do  not  do 
so  now.  And  I  know  that  all  you  teach  is  good  and  true,  and  my  town 
has  been  preserved  through  your  coming." 

Little  did  I  think,  when  I  told  you  in  my  last  that  I  would  write 
again  in  a  few  days,  what  these  few  days  would  bring  forth  !  Two 
weeks  ago  little  Topsy  complained  of  pains  in  her  back  and  chest. 
We  thought  it  must  be  lumbago,  but  soon  saw  that  it  was  a  slight 
attack  of  tetanus,  or  lockjaw.  Her  mouth  during  the  whole  time  of 
her  sickness  was  not  quite  locked,  and  she  was  able  to  take  nourish- 
ment ;  but  on  the  third  or  fourth  day  of  the  disease  she  became  as  stifl 
as  a  board  from  her  neck  down  to  her  knees.  I  treated  her,  and  she 
appeared  to  get  better  for  a  couple  of  days  ;  in  fact,  on  Monday  last, 
we  thought  her  out  of  danger.  She  talked  pleasantly  both  to  us  and 
to  her  father,  and  we  hoped  she  was  going  to  recover.  To  our  great 
surprise,  at  nine  in  the  evening,  she  passed  quietly  and  peacefully 
away  ;  so  unexpectedly,  that  at  first  we  thought  she  must  be  asleep. 
Miss  Spearing  watched  her,  and  observing  that  she  was  very  quiet  and 


"GOD  HAS    TAKEN  MY  CHILD."  373 

still,  called  me  to  come  and  look  at  the  child.  I  saw  at  once  that  the 
spirit  had  taken  its  flight ;  the  poor  little  lamb  was  gone  ! 

With  all  her  faults  we  loved  her,  and  doubtless  she  has  been  taken 
in  wisdom  and  love,  taken  to  be  with  Jesus,  taken  from  a  life  of  temp- 
tation. We  were  often  anxious  and  troubled  about  her  future,  but 
now  all  fears  are  dispelled. 

The  king  (her  father)  had  her  corpse  removed  to  the  town,  the  night 
she  died,  and  we  did  not  expect  we  should  be  allowed  to  bury  her. 
Mr,  Picton,  Robert,  and  I  made  a  nice  coffin  the  same  night.  Early 
next  morning  I  went  to  the  king  to  ask  permission  to  bury  her ;  but 
before  1  had  time  to  make  my  request  he  said,  "  God  has  taken  my 
child,  my  Launda,  but  that  is  His  affair ;  now  we  must  bury  her.  If 
you  wish  to  do  it,  well  and  good  ;  if  not,  we  will  do  it."  Of  course  I 
gladly  consented.  Mrs.  Craven  and  Miss  Spearing  prepared  flowers, 
and  laid  ihe  corpse  out  in  the  town,  surrounded  by  nearly  all  the 
women  in  the  place.  The  coffin  was  then  conveyed  to  our  little  chapel, 
where  we  had  a  most  impressive  service,  after  which  we  laid  her  in 
her  last  earthly  resting-place. 

Alas  !  how  quickly  is  the  little  graveyard  being  filled  !  For  us 
there  needs  no  engraved  tombstones  over  those  who  lie  in  the  small 
inclosure ;  their  names  and  memories  are  written  in  our  hearts. 


We  are  filled  with  heartfelt  gratitude  to  our  Father  in  heaven  for 
His  preserving  care  for  our  comparatively  large  staff.  Sixteen  months 
have  actually  passed  now,  and  no  white  missionary  has  been  removed. 

We  have  commenced  a  daily  service  in  our  chapel  at  9  a.m.,  and 
have  a  fair  attendance  each  day.  It  is  most  refreshing  to  leave  our 
labours  and  spend  a  brief  hour  in  the  worship  of  our  God.  On  the 
whole  we  have  much  to  encourage  us  even  now,  and  we  gather 
strength  and  comfort  through  believing  that  our  work  cannot  possibly 
be  in  vain  through  the  Lord.  Faith  looks  into  the  future,  and  sees 
schools  and  churches  in  each  Congo  village,  hears  old  men  singing 
the  praises  of  Jehovah,  and  sees  a  company  of  disciples  round  the 
Lord's  table.  Ah !  it  must  be  so  ;  hath  not  God  given  to  Christ  the 
heathen  for  His  inheritance  ?  Christ  shall  reign.  Hope  bears  us  upon 
her  wings  during  this  weary  season  of  sowing  the  seed.  Let  us  con- 
tinue in  faith,  in  prayer,  and  in  good  works,  and  God,  even  our  own 
God,  shall  bless  us. 


374  "PRAYING  ALWAYS: 


There  is  one  thing  more  essential  even  than  the 
preservation  of  health,  not  on  the  Congo  only,  but 
in  all  mission  fields,  and  at  home  also,  and  that  is 
the  preservation  of  spiritual  health. 

Mr.  Craven,  writing  from  Palabala,  and  describing 
many  of  the  difficulties  which  surrounded  him  on 
his  return  to  his  station,  urges  the  request  for  prayer. 
He  says  : 

Vou  are  liglit  in  respect  to  the  great  need  of  prayer  out  here.  God 
only  knows  the  struggles  we  have  to  preserve  our  spirituaUty.  We  have 
so  many  things  connected  with  the  work  at  present  which  tend  to  draw 
our  minds  away  from  spiritual  things,  so  that  unless  we  are  very  careful 
we  get  into  a  miserable,  wretched,  soulless  state.  My  earnest  prayer 
to  God  is  that  hi  this  respect  I  may  be  kept,  and  prove  a  blessing  to  all 
with  whom  I  come  in  contact.  Pray  for  us  constantly  :  we  need  your 
prayers  very  much  indeed.  I  long  earnestly  for  the  time  when  this 
people  shall  believe  in  the  Lord  Jesus.  At  present  they  appear  to  be 
more  attached  to  their  idols  than  ever.  May  God  turn  their  hearts  to 
Himself  ! 

Always  "  fervent  in  spirit,"  this  devoted  man  was 
none  the  less  "  not  slothful  in  business."  He  had 
pushed  on  bravely  with  his  task  of  preparing  the  way 
for  the  transport  of  the  steamer,  and  wrote  at  last 
that  all  was  ready,  and  he  did  not  fear  the  task. 

"  Our  stations  are  admirably  situated  for  obtaining 
native  carriers.  We  have  been  able  to  render  our 
Baptist  brethren  valuable  assistance  between  Tundwa 
and  Vunda,  having  received  and  forwarded  for  them 
over  two  hundred  loads.  Our  own  ropes,  tools,  paint, 
oil,  etc.,  etc.,  for  the  steamer  are  already  at  Stanley 
Pool,  and  most  of  the  barter  goods  for  the  payment  of 
native  carriers  are  distributed  along  the  line,  except 
some  sixty  loads  here  and  at  Banza  Manteka,  waiting 


SCENERi    AT  STANLEY    FOOL. 


375 


ONE    OF   THE    ISLETS    IN    STANLEY    I'OuL. 

till  we  know  what  you  are  going  to  do.  May  God 
Almighty  guide  you  !  We  are  ready  and  willing  to 
attempt  great  things  for  our  God.  Let  us  go  forward 
in  His  name.  Let  everything  be  done  for  His  glory, 
and  He  will  supply  all  our  needs.  Let  us  hope  to 
see  one  or  two  stations  planted  on  the  upper  river 
before  the  close  of  the  year.  The  Baptist  brethren 
are  kindly  anxious  to  help  us  with  our  steamer ;  Mr. 
Dixon  also  asks  Billington  to  reside  at  Tundwa 
while  unpacking  and  despatching  the  loads." 

Equator  Station,  Wangata. 

A  tenth  station  was  built  by  the  mission  this  year, 
and  carried  it  right  into  the  great  interior,  at  which  we 
had  all  along  been  aiming — Equator  Station.  It  stands 
near  Wangata,  at  the  confluence  of  the  Ikelemba  and 
Juapa  rivers  with  the  Congo,  in  o°  i'  o"  N.  latitude, 
seven  hundred  miles  from  the  coast.  Mr.  Stanley 
had  planted  a  station  at  this  spot,  which  is  a  centre 


376 


STANLEY'S  ACCOUNT  OF   fVANGATA. 


for  many  tribes  from  the  interior,  and  a  doorway 
to  many  rivers  giving  access  to  remote  regions.  He 
left  two  young  officers  and  some  fifty  men  here,  and 
on  his  return  was  greatly  pleased  with  the  progress 
made,  and  the  report  given  of  climate  and  people. 

He  thus  described  this  station,  when  staying  at   it 
on  his  way  down  : 

Equator  Station  is  certainly  a  happy  one,  not  so  situated  with 
regard  to  view  as  it  might  be,  but  with  that  sole  e.xception.  Many 
other  requisites  necessary  for  well-being  are  in  perfection  ;  we  have 
abundance  of  food,  obtained  very  cheaply,  and  the  prices  are  now  so 
established  to  every  one's  content  that  there  is  nothing  left  to  complain 
of.  We  have  apparently  friendly  and  devoted  neighbours.  Brinjalls, 
bananas,  plantains,  sweet  cassava,  potatoes,  yams,  Indian  corn,  eggs, 
poultry,  goats,  sheep,  the  native  productions,  assisted  by  vegetables  of 
Europe  flourishing  in  the  gardens,  with  tea  and  coffee,   sugar,  butter. 


V.'  'y^". 


V''!Ai''tr' l^ ,  ■  yk 


"POULTRY,    GOATS,    AND   NATIVE    PRODUCTIONS." 


A   HEALTHY  CLIMATE-  377 


lard,  rice,  and  wheat-flour  from  Europe,  afford  a  sufficient  variety  for  a 
sumptuous  tnenu.  I  have  enjoyed  puddings  every  day  here,  and  among 
other  accomplishments  of  Lieutenants  Vangele  and  Coquilhat,  not  the 
least  useful  is  that  of  knowing  how  to  cook  and  how  food  should  be 
prepared.  We  have  sufficient  acreage  near  the  station  to  be  able  if 
necessary  to  feed  everybody  abundantly.  The  climate  is  healthy  also, 
though  they  have  such  moist  weather  here,  and  the  ground  is  so 
astonishingly  rich,  that  one  would  think  that  fever  would  be  prevalent — 
yet  our  officers  have  been  already  fotir  months  at  Wangata  without 
experiencmg  one  hour' s  indisposition. 

To  know  the  intrinsic  value  of  the  rich  land  of  Africa,  visitors  cannot 
begin  their  estimate  until  they  see  the  bananas  grow  in  the  fat  soil 
around  this  station  ! 

From  this  station  Mr.  Eddie  wrote  : 

"  Mr.  Pettersen  and  I  continue  to  enjoy  excellent 
health  here  ;  for  six  months  I  was  not  sick  a  single 
hour,  and  then  I  had  a  little  fever.  Brother  Pettersen 
was  without  fever  for  a  still  longer  period.  Is  it  not 
strange  that  some  enjoy  such  good  health  out  here, 
while  others  never  seem  to  be  well  ?  This  is  evidently 
a  very  healthy  place,  and  we  like  the  locality  well. 
Our  station  is  built  on  a  piece  of  ground  adjoining  that 
of  the  A. I. A.,  and  close  to  the  Congo.  The  country 
around  is  flat,  and  covered  with  dense  forests.  The 
soil  is  well  adapted  to  agricultural  purposes,  and  the 
climate  also.  We  have  rain  all  the  year  round,  and 
no  cold  season  ;  if  we  only  had  the  seeds,  we  could 
grow  all  sorts  of  vegetables  and  fruits.  The  district 
is  very  thickly  populated,  especially  close  to  the  river  ; 
we  know  nothing  of  the  country  beyond  a  few  miles 
inland,  as,  owing  to  the  timid  suspiciousness  of  the 
people,  it  is  dangerous  to  travel  farther  without  a  well- 
armed  and  organized  caravan.  The  natives  are  armed 
and  have  a  good  deal  of  practice  in  fighting  among 


378  MR.  EDDIE'S  ACCOUNT  OF   WANG  ATA. 

themselves ;  but  their  relations  with  us  are  most 
friendly.  Nearly  every  day  crowds  of  Bayansi  come 
asking  to  be  allowed  to  "work,  and,  strange  to  say,  they 
never  mention  the  subject  of  pay  till  the  work  is 
finished,  whether  it  occupy  one  day  or  several.  They 
have  more  energy  and  will  to  work  than  any  African 
people  I  have  seen,  and  are  in  many  respects  superior 
to  the  Ba-kongo  tribes.  Morally  however  they  seem 
to  have  sunk  as  low  as  humanity  admits  of,  poor, 
unhappy,  benighted  people !  We  have  not  yet  been 
able  to  do  much  systematic  study  of  the  Kyansi 
language,  beyond  the  correction  of  a  vocabulary, 
owing  to  the  much  building  work  we  have  had  in 
hand,  the  making  of  furniture,  etc.  All  the  work- 
people in  this  country  are  mere  eye-servants,  so  we 
find  it  essential  to  our  interests  to  look  after  them. 
But  our  men  are  to  leave  us  this  week,  and  then 
we  shall  hav'e  more  time  for  study.  We  have  not 
invited  the  native  boys  to  come  to  school  yet,  but 
we  have  three  of  our  own,  and  six  or  seven  from  the 
A.I. A.  station,  who  all  attend  school  here.  These 
nine  boys  speak  three  different  languages,  and  we 
are  anxious  that  each  should  hear  in  his  own  tongue 
the  wonderful  works  of  God.  So  we  have  ordered 
a  small  printing-press,  that  we  may  be  able  to  print 
short  reading  lessons  in  each  of  the  three  languages. 

"  We  feel  assured  that  our  presence  here  is  already 
influencing  the  people  for  the  good,  though  we  are  so 
little  able  as  yet  to  communicate  to  them  the  gospel. 
Altogether  we  feel  encouraged  and  full  of  hope,  partly 
by  what  we  see,  but  chiefly  because  of  God's  faithful 


AN   UPPER   CONGO  NATION.  379 

promises.  Oh,  how  we  long  to  know  these  people 
gathered  into  the  fold  of  Jesus  !  The  work  may  pro- 
ceed very  slowly,  but  we  doubt  not  that  God  will  bring 
it  to  a  successful  issue.  By  faith  we  can  see  the  time 
when  these  Bayansi  will  cast  their  idols  away,  and 
rejoice  in  the  true  Light — in  Him  who  was  given  to 
be  '  a  Light  to  lighten  the  Gentiles.' " 

The  N'kundu  Tribes. 

Later  on,  in  reporting  progress  from  Wangata 
Station,  Mr.  Eddie  described  to  us  for  the  first  time 
the  Balolo  people,  among  whom  the  mission  was  in 
1889  extended,  as  we  shall  see  later  on.     He  wrote : 

At  the  equator  there  are  two  different  tribes  represented,  the  Babangi, 
who  are  chiefly  the  riverine  inhabitants,  and  the  N'kundu  people,  a 
branch  of  the  great  Balolo  tribe.  To  the  latter  we  have  chiefly  confined 
ourselves,  although  we  have  had  a  good  deal  of  intercourse  with  the 
former.  They  are  the  chief  traders  of  the  first  five  hundred  miles  above 
Stanley  Pool,  and  have  almost 
exclusive  possession  of  the  banks 
of  the  Congo  between  Kwa- 
mouth  and  the  Mobeka  River, 
north  of  Mangala,  as  also  the 
confluences  of  the  tributaries 
of  the  Congo  within  that  space. 
The  Balolo  people  touch  the 
Congo  only  at  one  point,  the 
equator ;  but  the  Juapa,  Ike- 
lemba,  Lulonga,  and  Lomami 
rivers  flow  through  the  country 
inhabited  by  them.  The  Rev. 
G.  Grenfell  in  his  journeys  up  an  UPPER  CONGO  WOMAN,  with  hair 
these  rivers   found  that   guides  DRESSED  TO  IMITATE  HORNS. 


38o  SUPERSTITIOUS  DREAD    OF  PRAYER. 

whom  he  had  procured  at  the  equator  could  easily  understand  and 
converse  with  the  natives  for  hundreds  of  miles  inland  from  the 
Congo.  That  gives  the  Balolo  people  a  country  of  about  245,900 
square  miles,  occupying  the  space  formed  by  the  great  bend  of  the 
Congo  northwards.  They  are  physically  a  fine  race.  They  are  bold, 
enterprising,  comparatively  speaking  industrious,  and  less  superstitious 
than  some  other  Congo  tribes,  though  more  cruel. 

Through  the  efforts  put  forth  during  last  year  we  know  much  more 
about  the  tributaries  of  the  Congo  and  the  people  inhabiting  their 
banks  than  we  formerly  knew.  Mr.  Grenfell,  to  whom  the  greatest 
credit  is  due,  lias  done  the  largest  sliare  of  this  important  work  ;  not  for 
the  sake  of  exploring,  but  actuated  with  the  desire  to  make  an  effort  to 
bring  the  knowledge  of  the  glorious  gospel  to  some  of  those  multitudes 
who  are  living  in  darkness.  In  every  work  a  first  effort  must  be  made. 
Some  one  must  be  the  foremost  pioneer.     .     .     . 

Here  the  work  of  cultivating  the  ground,  learning  the  language, 
teaching  in  school  and  otherwise  as  we  had  opportunity,  and  trading 
with  the  people,  has  been  going  on  but  slowly  on  account  of  our  short- 
handedness.  What  are  one  or  two  in  a  heathen  country  where  the  next 
mission  station  is  about  500  miles  distant  ? 

School  work  has  been  maintained  at  the  station  throughout  almost 
the  whole  year,  and  indeed  since  the  station  was  first  established.  The 
children  have  shown  themselves  to  be  fairly  intelligent ;  but  work 
among  them  has  been  greatly  hindered  through  want  of  school 
materials.  For  a  long  time  we  had  only  two  slates  among  twenty,  and 
no  school  books  whatever.  The  average  attendance  since  school  began 
has  been  about  twenty.  Most  of  them  lived  with  us.  Education  is  ot 
no  value  in  the  eyes  of  these  people,  and  so  we  cannot  expect  them  to 
get  for  themselves,  or  for  their  children,  what  to  them  appears  to  be 
quite  useless  for  themselves,  though  of  great  value  and  profit  to  the 
white  man. 

Besides  school,  every  morning  we  have  a  short  service,  reading  and 
explaining  portions  of  "  Peep  of  Day,"  singing  and  praying,  and  con- 
versing with  any  who  are  so  disposed  ;  and  there  is  scarcely  a  native 
but  is  fond  of  conversing,  and  will  talk  and  ask  questions  by  the  hour. 
For  some  time  they  were  very  much  afraid  to  bow  the  head  or  close  the 
eyes  in  prayer.  The  boys,  who  considered  that  to  be  a  most  important 
item,  would  urge  them  to  do  so  ;  but  instead,  they  would  seize  their 
arms  and  run  off  a  short  distance,  where  they  would  wait  until  the 


VOYAGE   OAT  THE    UPPER    CONGO. 


381 


suspicious  looking  business  (in  their  eyes)  of  praying  was  over,  when 
they  would  rejoin  us.  After  a  time  these  feelings  of  fear  and  suspicion 
wore  off,  and  we  very  often  had  an  attentive  and  inquisitive  audience. 
Interruptions  in  our  services  are  frequent  :  one  wishes  to  deny  the 
truth  of  some  statement  which  does  not  happen  to  agree  with  his 
opinions  or  practice,  another  to  ask  some  question,  and  a  third  to  make 
some  remark.  But  in  prayer  every  face  is  covered  and  every  breath 
hushed — we  are  speaking  to  God. 


>§    -#  « 


TRAlMN'G-CAXOli    ON    THE    CONGO. 


On  October  of  this  year  Dr.  Sims  joined  Mr. 
Grenfell  of  the  B.M.S.,  in  a  long  voyage  of  explora- 
tion on  the  upper  river,  in  the  ss.  Peace. 

The  voyage  was  a  deeply  interesting  and  eventful 
one.  Four  thousand  miles  of  the  great  Congo  water- 
way were  sailed  over,  with  a  view  of  observing  the 
strategic  points  for  stations,  the  most  populous  neigh- 


j82     FOUR    THOUSAND  MILES  ON  UPPER  CONGO. 


bourhoods,  and  the  extent  over  which  certain  lan- 
guages prevailed.  Both  the  sister  missions  were 
intending  to  work  in  the  great  interior,  and  it  was 
important  to  survey  the  country  before  settling  plans. 
Twelve  or  thirteen  hundred  miles  of  new  waters  were 
visited  in  the  tributary  rivers  north  and  south  of  the 
Congo.  They  went  up  the  Mobangi — that  great 
stream  running  to  the  north  of  the  Congo,  which 
is  only  second  to  it  in  importance,  coming  down 
sixteen  hundred  miles  from  the  Nile  watershed  in  the 
north-east.  Its  upper  waters,  as  is  now  known,  go  by 
the  names  of  Welle  and  Makua,  and  drain  the  exten- 
sive country  north-west  of  the  Albert  Nyanza.  It  is 
almost  the  largest  affluent  of  the  Congo,  and  is  navig- 
able for  hundreds  of  miles,  but  then  interrupted  by 
falls  and  rapids.  In  its  lower  course  it  passes  through 
country  crowded  with  buffalo,  elephants,  and  other 
wild  animals,  and  its  people  are  desperate  cannibals. 
The  Peace  visited  Equatorville,  and  spent  three  days 
with  Messrs.  Pettersen  and  Eddie,  then  building  a 
station  there,  ascended  the  Ikelemba,  passing  by  the 
great  Juapa  with  its  inky,  astringent  iron  waters, 
and  the  Bosira,  which  together  give  five  or  six 
hundred  miles  of  navigable  river-way  ;  they  visited 
Danda,  surrounded  by  its  ditch  and  with  its  draw- 
bridge-like gates,  and  its  people,  who  are  frightfully 
self-disfigured  by  cicatrices  and  lumps  of  flesh  as  big 
as  peas  or  beans,  made  on  their  faces  by  way  of 
ornament !  They  followed  the  northern  shore  of  the 
island-studded  Congo — the  far  side  of  which  was 
here,  visible  ,  and   noted  many  lazy  rivers  or  creeks 


UPPER   CONGO   CANNIBALISM.  385 

connecting  it  apparently  with  the  Mobangi,  and  much 
low-lying  land,  so  little  above  the  level  of  the  river 
that  they  saw  it  must  be  flooded  at  high  water. 
Everywhere  they  observed  signs  of  cannibalism  and 
received  a  painful  shock  at  the  horrid  custom.  They 
went  up  the  swampy  Ngala  River,  and  visited  towns 
where  the  paths  were  marked  out  by  rows  of  skulls, 
and  the  people  wore  necklaces  of  human  teeth  ;  they 
saw  places  of  five  thousand  to  eight  thousand  and 
ten  thousand  inhabitants,  with  a  hundred  canoes 
lying  on  the  beach  ;  they  ascended  the  Loika  until 
stopped  by  the  Lobi  Cataract  in  2°5o',  where  was  an 
island  full  of  beautiful  orchids.  They  found  many 
friendly  people,  who  readily  gave  them  food,  firewood  ; 
and  many  fierce,  inhospitable  ones ;  and  at  last  they 
came  to  worst  of  all,  the  Arab-raided  neighbourhood 
of  Stanley  Falls !  Burning  or  burnt  villages,  hun- 
dreds of  canoes  full  of  fugitives  creeping  along  the 
river  by  day  and  by  night ;  wreckage  floating  by  for 
hours  together,  house  roofs,  beds,  stools,  calabashes, 
fishing  nets,  ropes,  the  property  of  the  cruelly  de- 
stroyed towns,  brought  them  face  to  face  with 
Africa's  worst  scourge,  the  Arab  slave-trade.  Yes ! 
there,  fifty  miles  west  of  Stanley  Falls,  were  the  east- 
coast  monsters,  "  the  most  pitiless  marauders  of  this 
or  any  age "  at  their  old  diabolical  work  !  Tippoo 
Tib  was  already  established  at  the  Falls,  and  pre- 
paring to  stay  and  take  possession  of  the  country ! 
They  could  do  nothing,  but  with  saddened  hearts 
note  the  spreading  ruin  and  pray  that  some  stop 
might  be  put  to  its  progress. 


■PERMIT  US  ALSO    TO  KILL    OUR  MEAT:'      385 


On  their  return  Dr.  Sims  wrote  : 

The  voyage,  of  which  at  the  moment  I  cannot  speak  in  detail,  per- 
mitted me  to  see  in  a  very  complete  way  the  enormous  work  to  be 
accomplished.  The  horrid  practice  of  cannibalism  prevails  everywhere, 
from  Bolobo  upwards.  One  poor  man  was  killed  the  Sunday  we  were 
in  ^langala,  and  three  while  we.  were  absent.  When  we  remonstrated 
the  reply  was,  "  Vou  kill  your  goats  without  our  interference  ;  permit 
us  also  to  kill  our  meat."  The  roofs  of  houses  are  ornamented  with 
the  skulls  of  such  victims,  and  about  the  Aruwimi  squares  and  circles 
of  them  are  formed  in  the  ground.  The  victims  are  cut  up  and  roasted 
or  boiled  at  discretion,  the  brains  and  face  being  chosen  pieces  ;  and 
even  the  little  children  are  given  a  taste,  to  endear  to  them  the  same 
habits.  That  stretch  of  river  from  the  Aruwimi  to  the  Falls  is  deserted 
by  its  inhabitants,  utterly  devastated  and  burnt  by  the  natives  them- 
selves, so  that  the  Arabs  may  find  neither  refuge  nor  food  in  their  towns  ; 
the  gardens  and  the  fishing  are  neglected,  and  the  poor  people  flying 
like  hunted  beasts  to  the  islands  and  forests.  They  are  so  clever  in 
escaping  and  avoiding  conflicts  that  probably  not  more  than  twenty  or 
thirty  captives  have  been  taken  here.  The  Arab  leaders  profess  that 
they  are  sent  by  the  Sultan  of  Zanzibar,  and  that  they  are  to  see  to  it 
that  all  the  ivory  goes  to  the  East  Coast,  and  to  claim  the  whole  river 
as  far  as  Banana  in  his  name  !     .     .     . 

When  you  can  send  me  the  goods  and  tools,  we  will  proceed  to 
found  a  station  at  the  Falls,  give  them  some  legitimate  labour  in  building 
for  us,  and  by  preaching  and  persuasion  get  them  to  seek  better  things. 
I  am  quite  prepared  now,  also,  if  the  project  is  approved,  to  go,  either 
at  once,  or  after  I  have  been  home,  to  Nyangwe,  buy  a  house  there,  and 
commence  a  mission  to  the  6,000  natives  and  Mohamniadans  there. 

Messrs.  Pettersen  and  Eddie  had  the  sad  honour  of 
being  the  only  two  missionaries  on  the  Upper  Congo 
at  this  time. 

Launch  of  the  Hexrv  Reed. 

The  transport  and  reconstruction  of  the  Henry  Reed 
were  going  on  all  this  year.  It  took  a  thousand 
porters  to  carry  up  all  the  loads  the  225  miles  from 
Tundwa  to  the   Pool.     The  materials  for  the  hull  had 

C.  A.  25 


S%  LAUNCHED  AT  LAST. 

reached  Leopoldville  by  April,  and  as  soon  as  Mr. 
Billington  arrived  the  rcbuildin^^  began.  He  had  the 
assistance  of  Messrs.  Glenesk,  Eddie,  and  Banks  part 
of  the  time,  and  by  November  the  Httle  steamer  was 
ready  to  launch.  As  she  was  snugly  docked  however, 
and  well  placed  on  the  slip,  the  same  which  the 
the  B.M.S.  had  used  for  their  steamer  Peace,  it  was 
intended  to  finish  her  interior  fittings  before  launching 
her.  But  on  Sunday,  the  23rd  of  November,  the 
waters  of  the  Congo  rose  unusually  high,  filled  the 
dock,  and  lifted  the  stern  of  the  vessel.  Seeing  it 
would  not  be  possible  to  keep  the  waters  out  any 
longer,  it  was  resolved  to  launch  her  the  next  da)-. 
On  Monday,  the  24th,  after  some  hours'  work,  and 
with  the  kind  and  very  efficient  help  of  Mr.  Cruik- 
shank,  of  the  B.M.S. ,  the  Henry  Reed  was  safely 
afloat  in  the  cove  at  Leopoldville.  The  remaining 
work  was  quickly  finished,  and  by  the  end  of  the  year 
the  steamer  was  ready  to  start  on  her  first  trip  into 
the  interior,  to  convey  Mr.  Eddie  to  Equator  Station. 

It  was  with  profound  gratitude  to  God  that  we 
received  the  news,  and  very  heartily  did  we  congra- 
tulate the  dear  brethren  of  the  mission,  through  whose 
unwearied  and  skilful  labours  this  successful  result 
had  been  attained.  Much  money,  time,  strength,  and 
life  itself,  had  been  freely  sacrificed  to  secure  this 
result.  From  England  and  from  America,  and  from 
Africa  too,  many  a  prayer  had  ascended  that  God 
would  prosper  this  effort.  He  had  graciously  done 
it,  and  we  were  filled  with  thankfulness. 


THE   ''HENRY  REED'S''  INSURANCE.  387 

For  now  at  last  a  link  existed  between  our  chain 
of  stations  through  the  cataract  region  and  the  new 
world  of  Central  Africa.  Missionaries  might  safely 
pitch  their  tents  hundreds  of  miles  in  the  interior  with- 
out being  cut  off  from  their  base  of  supplies  and 
channel  of  communication.  A  journey  of  a  hundred 
miles  would  henceforth  be  accomplished  more  safely 
and  easily  than  one  of  ten  before  ;  the  "  road  "  could 
not  be  "  stopped,"  and  the  travellers  need  not  risk  life 
by  exposure  and  over-fatigue.  We  could  not  insure 
this  precious  mission  steamer ;  no  underwriter  would 
take  the  risk  !  We  could  only  pray  God  Himself  to 
guard  her  in  the  hour  of  peril,  and  remember  with 
comfort  that  storm  and  tempest,  rock  and  rapid, 
shoal  and  sandbank,  drift-wood  and  hippopotami,  in- 
experienced management  and  native  want  of  skill, — 
all  would  be  powerless  to  injure,  if  He  would  shield 
the  vessel  dedicated  to  His  service ! 

Mr.  Eddie  subsequently  wrote  from  Equator  Station 
four  hundred  miles  above  the  Pool  :  "  Four  very  wel- 
come letters  reached  me  by  our  steamer.  The  Henry 
Reed  is  now  running,  and  doing  splendidly.  It  would 
be  as  easy  for  her  to  supply  seven  or  eight  stations 
as  one,  if  only  we  had  the  men  and  means  to  esta- 
blish them  !  "  Later  he  wrote  :  "  Our  steam-launch 
the  Hejiry  Reed,  has  done  excellent  service.  Besides 
running  several  times  between  Stanley  Pool  and  the 
Equator,  she  has  been  up  to  Stanley  Falls,  and  has 
taken  several  shorter  excursions.  On  one  trip  we 
went  about  130  miles  up  the  Ikelemba  River.  By 
all  the  people  we  were  very  kindly  received  ;  and  at 


''AN  OPEN  nOO/i." 


the  farthest  point  we  reached  we  were  pressed  by 
the  chief  and  people  to  come  and  build  and  live  with 
them.  He  offered  us  a  piece  of  land  to  commence 
at  once  if  we  wished.  We  promised  to  try  and  go 
back  at  some  future  time.  About  three  months  after- 
wards he  sent  a  messenger  down  to  the  Equator  to 
ask  why  we  were  delaying.  Here  is  an  opc7i  door,  a 
ready  and  needy  field,  a  people  quiet,  and  anxious  to 
get  a  teacher y 


DR.  J.    N.   MURDOCK, 
SECRETARY    OF  THE   AMERICAN    BAPTIST   MISSIONARY  UNION. 


390 


CHAPTER   X. 

TRANSFER  OF  THE  MISSION  TO  A  yf ERIC  AN 
MANAGEMENT. 

Ix  spite  of  a  legion  of  difficulties,  the  Livingstone 
Inland  Mission  had  by  this  time  carried  out  its 
original  programme,  and  planted  mission  stations  at 
intervals  through  seven  hundred  miles  of  countr\', 
right  into  the  interior.  Its  missionaries  had  ex- 
hibited much  true  Christian  heroism,  and  had  cheer- 
fully endured  hardness  as  good  soldiers  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Though  almost  the  }'oungest  in  the  family 
of  great  Central  African  missions,  no  other  had  then 
either  so  large  a  staff  or  so  many  stations  in  working 
order.  It  had  accomplished  also  much  literary  work, 
nor  had  spiritual  blessing  been  lacking.  Some  of  its 
converts  were  already  gone  home  to  glory ;  others 
were  giving  hopeful  promise  of  future  usefulness,  and 
some  were  willingly  suffering  persecution  for  Christ's 
sake.  The  missionaries  were  much  encouraged.  The 
steamer  Henry  Reed  had  been  carried  up  to  Stanley 
Pool,  and  reconstructed  there,  and  was  already  float- 
ing on  the  Upper  Congo,  ready  for  its  blessed  task  of 
distributing  evangelists  in  the  interior. 


392  POSITION  OF   THE  MISSION  IN  ISS4. 

The  terrible  preliminary  difficulties  had  been  over- 
come, the  heavy  initiatory  expenses  met,  the  first- 
fruits  of  the  harvest  reaped,  much  precious  and 
costly  experience  gained,  and  the  mission  was  occu- 
pying a  position  which  we  had  hardly  dared  to  hope 
it  could  attain  so  soon. 

There  had  been  times  and  crises  in  the  history  of 
the  Mission  when  we  had  almost  despaired  of  van- 
quishing  the  preliminary  obstacles !     But  they  had 
all  been  by  Divine  help  overcome.     Fivc-and-twenty 
devoted  men  and  women  were  in  the  country,  mostly 
acclimatized  and  acquainted  with  the  language,heartily 
and   successfully   labouring  among  the  heathen,  and 
willing  to  die  at  their  posts,  if  such  were  the  will  of 
God.      The    Holy  Ghost   was   actually  regenerating 
human  hearts,  and   confirming  the  word  with  signs 
following.      The    enterprise   was    looking    far    more 
hopeful  than  it  had  ever  done  before.     Our  faith  in 
God  had  not  failed  about   it,  nor  our  conviction  of 
His   purpose,  as  evidenced  by  His  providence, — far 
from   it ;  every  year   of    additional    experience  only 
strengthened  it  as  w^'th  a  powerful  tonic.     We  had 
assumed  the  responsibility  of  the  Mission — small  as 
it  was  at  the  time — with  fear  and   trembling.     The 
first  year  during  which  it  was  under  our  care  i^5,000 
were  requisite  for  its  support,  and  i^5,ooo  were  sent 
in  for  that  object  by  the  God  of  missions.     The  next 
year  it  demanded   more,  and    more  came  ;   and  we 
believed,  that    if  ten   thousand    instead  of  five   had 
been  requisite,  God  would  have  supplied  the  financial 
need  of  this  Mission.     Volunteers  for  service  on  the 


THE   CHILD   OUT-GROWING   THE  PARENT.       393 


Congo  had  never  been  lacking,  either  men  or  women. 
We  were  not  weary  of  the  work, — weary  in  it  often, 
but  never  weary  of  it.  We  loved  it  with  all  our  hearts, 
and  nothing  in  the  world  would  have  induced  us  to 
allow  it  to  collapse.  But  it  had  so  grown  and  deve- 
loped that  we  felt  it  could  no  longer  be  managed  as 
a  subsidiary  branch  of  our  East  London  Training 
Institute.  It  had  become  important  enough  to  rank 
as  one  of  the  principal  enterprises  of  a  great  Mis- 
sionary Society.  It  was  fast  outgrowing  the  parent 
Institution,  and  becoming  the  larger  enterprise  of  the 
two.  We  had  but  a  fraction  of  time  and  attention 
to  devote  to  it,  and  yet  it  demanded  a  great  share 
of  both. 

As  to  finances  also,  the  Mission  was  our  second, 
and  not  our  first,  responsibility.  We  were  bound 
first  to  pray  and  labour  for  the  supply  of  the  large 
and  constantly  increasing  needs  of  the  Institute, 
which  never  was  intended  to  be  a  Missionary  Society, 
though  a  number  of  missions  in  various  parts  of  the 
world  owe  to  it,  directly  or  indirectly,  their  existence. 
Its  great  object  was  and  is  to  multiply  missionaries, 
to  induce,  prepare,  and  help  young  Christian  workers 
to  evangelize  among  the  heathen  in  the  regions 
beyond,  according  to  the  command  of  Christ.  The 
training  and  support  of  more  than  a  hundred  mis- 
sionary students  ;  the  arranging  for  their  going  out 
into  all  parts  of  the  world  at  the  rate  of  one  every 
week,  on  an  average  ;  correspondence  with  the  hun- 
dreds who  have  already  gone  out ;  the  conduct  of  the 
Home  Missions,  in  connexion  with  which  the  students 


394  PROPOSAL   OF  THE  A.B.M.U. 


receive  their  practical  training  in  evangelization, — all 
this  filled  our  hearts  and  hands  to  such  an  extent 
that,  for  some  time  past,  we  had  been  feeling  unable 
to  do  full  justice  to  the  Livingstone  Inland  Mission. 

The  enterprise  teas  noiv  capable  of  rapid  and  wide 
extension — a  new  and  uncvangclized  world  lay  open 
before  it.  It  needed  much  wisdom  and  experience  to 
guide  and  direct  it.  It  demanded  not  only  ample 
resources,  but  the  aid  of  coloured  Christian  agents 
who  could  stand  the  climate,  and  also  a  considerable 
amount  of  business  skill  and  knowledge,  which  made 
a  lady  Secretary  scarcely  suitable. 

We  were  prayerfully  considering  the  best  course  to 
take  under  these  circumstances,  when  we  heard  from 
the  American  Baptist  Missionary  Union  that  they 
were  looking  out  for  a  good  opening  in  Central  Africa, 
and  feeling  that  it  was  their  special  duty — as  having  a 
large  constituency  of  coloured  Churches — to  do  some- 
thing for  the  evangelization  of  the  negro's  fatherland. 

We  accepted  this  as  guidance,  and  corresponded 
with  the  experienced  and  able  Secretary  of  this  Board 
— our  friend  Dr.  J.  X.  Murdock,  of  Boston,  a  faithful 
minister  of  Christ,  with  whom  we  had  been  ac- 
quainted years  previously  in  the  United  States.  It 
was  arranged  that  he  and  Dr.  Crane,  of  the  A.B.M.U. 
executive  committee,  should  come  over  as  a  depu- 
tation to  examine  into  the  nature  and  working  of 
the  Mission,  and  to  confer  with  us  as  to  the  possibility 
of  our  transferring  it  to  their  care.  This  they  did  ; 
and  after  hearing  their  report  the  Union  decided  to 
adopt  the  Mission,  and  promised  vigorously  to  pro- 


AMERICA'S  INTEREST  IN  THE   CONGO. 


395 


secute  it.  They  were  to  take  over  the  staff  as  it  then 
was,  its  members  having  consented  to  the  transfer  ; 
together  with  all  the  stations,  steamers,  and  property 
of  the  Mission.  The  L.I.M.  had  hitherto  been  an 
undenominational  enterprise.  The  constitution  of  the 
Union  forbad  that  it  should  continue  to  be  this  ;  but 
the  work  was  still  to  be  conducted  in  that  spirit  of 
large-hearted  charity  which  recognises  that  the  essen- 
tial points  on  which  Christians  are  agreed  are  much 
more  important  than  the  secondary  points  on  which 
they  differ.     As  it  happened,  many,  if  not  most,  of 


395  HISTORY  OF   THE  A.B.M.U. 


the  members  of  the  staff  of  the  Liviiv^stonc  Inland 
Mission  were  Baptists,  and  the  only  other  mission 
in  the  country  was  that  of  the  English  Baptist  Mis- 
sionary Societ)'. 

We  were  partly  guided  in  this  transfer  by  the  con- 
viction that  it  would  not  be  wise  to  introduce  a  second 
denoinination  into  the  field.  There  was  besides  some- 
thing appropriate  in  an  arrangement  which  placed  in 
American  hands  the  first  mission  established  on  the 
great  river  opened  up  to  the  world  by  American 
capital  and  enterprise.  But  for  the  New  York  Herald, 
and  the  indomitable  courage  and  endurance  of  the 
great  explorer  Stanley,  the  Congo  River  might  have 
long  remained  as  unknown  as  during  past  ages. 

The  American  Baptist  Missionary  Union,  to 
which  the  Livingstone  Inland  Mission  was  thus  trans- 
ferred, was  founded  in  1813,  and  adopted  its  present 
name  in  1846,  when  a  separation  took  place  between 
the  northern  and  the  southern  branches  of  the  Society 
in  connexion  with  the  slavery  question. 

Its  first  Secretary  (an  Englishman,  Dr.  Stoughton) 
for  fourteen  years  gave  his  whole  heart  and  his  entire 
time  gratuitously  to  its  management  and  develop- 
ment. The  present  Secretary  of  the  Board,  our  highly 
esteemed  and  valued  friend  the  Rev.  J.  N.  Murdock, 
has  been  annually  re-elected  to  fill  the  position  for 
the  last  twenty-five  years.  It  had  long  been  his  great 
desire  to  see  the  Union  fully  embarked  in  African 
evangelization  before  his  tenure  of  office  should  close. 

The  income  of  the  Board  has  grown  gradually  from 


MJSSIONS   OF  THE  A.B.M.U.  397 

;^3,ooo  in  1815  to  over  i^8o,ooo.  It  founded  and 
sustains  seventeen  separate  missions.  It  works  in 
eight  different  countries  in  Asia,  among  the  Burmans 
and  Karens,  in  Tavoy,  in  Arracan  on  the  eastern 
shores  of  the  Bay  of  Bengal,  in  Siam,  in  China,  and  in 
the  Telugu  country  in  India.  It  has  missions  also  in 
France,  Germany,  Greece,  in  Europe ;  and  among  the 
Ojibwas,  Ottawas,  Tuscaroras,  Shavvanoe,  and  Chero- 
kee Indians  in  i\merica.  In  Africa,  prior  to  its  adop- 
tion of  the  Congo,  it  had  one  mission  only — among 
the  Bassas. 

The  two  most  widely  known  and  perhaps  most 
successful  of  these  undertakings  are  the  Burman  and 
Telugu  Missions.  Both  had  to  experience  long  and 
bitter  years  of  delay  and  the  apparently  fruitless  effort 
at  the  beginning ;  but  both  have  been  abundantly 
fruitful  in  the  end,  and  are  showing  constant  improve- 
ment. 

The  Church  in  Ongole,  which  had  only  eight  mem- 
bers in  1867,  numbered  seven  years  later  3,300,  and 
was  one  of  the  largest  Baptist  Churches  in  the  world. 
There  are  now  forty  Christian  Churches  and  one 
hundred  native  preachers,  with  a  well-organized  col- 
lege for  training  such  among  the  Telugus. 

The  total  number  of  missionaries  of  the  A.B.M.U. 
is  about  240. 

It  was  in  connexion  with  this  society  that  Judson 
worked  so  long  and  so  well  in  Burmah  ;  and  its  mis- 
sions compare  favourably  for  efficiency  and  success 
with  those  of  any  society  in  existence.  We  felt 
nothing  but  confidence  and  satisfaction  in  placing  the 


398  AN  ILLUSTRATION. 

Livingstone  Inland  Mission  under  its  care,  believing 
that  the  God  who  had  helped  it  to  do  so  much  good 
in  other  spheres  would  also  help  it  in  Central  Africa. 

It  was  not  without  some  measure  of  pain  that  we 
took  this  important  step,  for  the  Livingstone  Inland 
Mission  was  very  dear  to  our  hearts.  It  was  not 
because  we  were  weary  of  it  that  we  parted  with  it, 
but  for  its  good.  W'c  wrote  at  the  time  in  Regions 
Beyond : 

Let  the  parents  who  have  reared  throiigli  feeble  infancy  and  deli- 
cate childhood  a  beloved  daughter,  carried  her  safely  through  many 
a  danger,  made  heavy  sacrifices  to  secure  her  suitable  education,  ten- 
derly watched  over  her  as  she  developed  into  the  budding  promise  of  a 
charming  womanhood,  and  who  yet,  with  smiles  and  tears,  give  her 
away  at  the  altar  to  a  worthy  husband — let  them  say  whether  their  so 
doing  is  any  evidence  that  they  have  grown  weary  of  their  child  or 
ceased  to  love  her  !  Is  it  not  rather  because  they  love  her,  because  they 
desire  her  best  welfare,  that  they  thus  act  ?  They  have  bestowed  on 
her  life  and  being,  love  and  nurture  so  far,  but  they  know  that  in  the 
future  she  will  need  that  which  they  cannot  give  her.  They  must  pass 
away  ;  who  shall  care  for  her  M'hen  tliey  are  gone  ?  They  secure  for 
her  by  parting  with  her  more  than  they  could  ever  do  by  retaining 
her.  She  has  outgrown  their  care  ;  the  very  development  which  they 
have  promoted  has  created  needs  which  they  cannot  meet.  It  is  thus 
with  us  and  our  Congo  Mission.  We  prize  it,  yet  part  with  it,  love  it, 
yet  send  it  from  us,  and  feel  while  doing  so  the  glad  sadness  and  sad 
gladness  of  parental  hearts  at  a  wedding.  The  pain  must  be  cheerfully 
borne  if  the  severance  of  the  old  links  of  love  and  dependence  secure 
the  present  and  future  well-being  of  the  loved  one.  Were  any  doubt 
entertained  as  to  this,  the  separation  could  not  for  a  moment  be  thought 
of;  but  this  being  assured,  it  must  be  faced. 

The  wisdom  of  the  step  which  had  been  taken 
in  placing  this  important  enterprise  under  the  care  of 
able  and  experienced  men  was  very  quickly  illustrated. 
The  transfer  was  no  sooner  accomplished  than   the 


FAILURE  OF  THE  FORMER  SECRETARY' S  HEALTH.  399 

health  of  the  former  Secretary  broke  down  very 
seriously,  and  was  only  slowly  and  partially  restored. 
From  the  great  inconvenience  and  injury  which  must 
otherwise  have  resulted,  the  work  on  the  Congo  was 
happily  preserved  by  the  change  which  in  the  provi- 
dence of  God  had  been  accomplished.  The  future 
is  hidden  from  us,  but  lies  naked  and  open  before 
the  eye  of  Him  with  \\-hom  we  have  to  do 


FREDERICK     STANLEY     ARNOT, 

FOUNDER  OF  THE  GARENGANGE  MISSION,   CONGO    FREE   STATE. 

(See  Appendix.) 


COyDITIO.V  OF  THE  MISSION,   ISSJ^.  401 


At  the  time  of  its  transfer  to  the  xA.B.M.U.  the 
mission  had  seven  stations  in  working  order,  stretch- 
ing seven  hundred  miles  into  the  interior,  and  twenty- 
missionaries,  four  of  whom  were  married.  These  were 
all  that  then  remained  on  the  staff  of  more  than 
double  the  number  who  had  gone  out  during  the 
seven  years  which  had  elapsed  since  the  first  party 
landed  at  Banana  in  1878.  A  few  had  proved  unsuit- 
able and  had  been  recalled  ;  t^\■o  or  three  had  been 
invalided  home  and  obliged  to  take  to  less  tropical 
fields  of  labour  ;  a  few  had  retired  ;  and  ten  white 
men,  one  woman,  and  one  coloured  helper  had  laid 
down  their  lives  on  the  Congo. 

But  there  still  remained  in  Africa  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Craven,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Clarke,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ingham, 
and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Stephen  White  ;  together  with 
Dr.  Sims  and  Messrs.  Harvey,  Richards,  Billington, 
Pettersen,  Westlind,  Fredrickson,  Banks,  Picton, 
Glenesk,  Eddie,  and  Hoste ;  with  the  Misses  Spear- 
ing, Cole,  Harris,  and  Skakle. 

The  seven  stations  were  all  on  the  south  side  of 
the  Congo,  and  all  but  one  in  the  Congo  Free  State. 
The  first  only  was  in  Portuguese  territory.  They  were: 

1.  MUKntVIKA,  built  on  a  cliff  overlooking  the 
Atlantic,  opposite  the  port  of  Banana,  but  separated 
from  it  by  seven  miles  of  water. 

2.  Palabala,  South  of  the  Yellala  Falls,  on  a  hill 
1,600  feet  high,  the  first  station  of  the  mission. 

3.  Banza  Manteka,  founded  in  1879  by  Mr. 
Richards,  where  the  first  Church  was  gathered,  and  the 
first  permanent  building  for  Christian  worship  erected. 

C.  A.  26 


402  MISS  1 01^  STATIONS. 

4.  MUKIMBUXfiu,  near  the  Itunzuma  Falls,  built 
by  Mr.  Clarke,  and  occupied  at  the  time  by  Messrs. 
Westlind  and  Fredrickson. 

5.  LUKUNGA,  opposite  Manyanga,  a  pleasant  place 
in  a  populous  district,  near  the  river  of  the  same 
name,  occupied  at  the  time  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ingham. 

6.  Leopoldville,  on  Stanley  Pool,  founded  by 
Dr.  Sims  and  Mr.  Pettcrsen,  where  the  steamer  was 
reconstructed  by  Messrs.  Billington  and  Glcnesk. 

7.  EquaT0R\ILLE,  near  Wangata,  on  the  upper 
river,  founded  by  Messrs.  Pettersen  and  P-ddie,  among 
the  N'kundu  people,  and  on  the  borders  of  Balolo- 
land.^ 

Messrs.  Pettersen  and  Westlind  were  two  Swedish 
brethren,  sent  out  and  sustained  b}'  the  Swedish 
Missionary  Society.  They  had  joined  our  mission 
in  order  to  learn  the  language  and  the  ways  of  the 
country,  before  commencing  an  independent  effort. 
They  were  not  Baptists,  and  on  the  occasion  of  the 
transfer  to  the  A.B.M.U.,  it  was  thought  best  on 
both  sides,  and  mutually  agreed,  that  they  should,  at 
that  crisis,  start  an  independent  Swedish  Mission  ; 
which  they  did.  The  station  of  MukimlDungu  was 
transferred  to  the  Swedish  Missionary  Societ}',  which 
has  since  sent  out  many  additional  workers,  both  men 
and  women,  and  opened  two  new  stations  on  the 
north  side  of  the  Congo,  Diadia  and  Kimbouni. 


*  The  station  of  Banana  had  been  moved  to  Mukimvika,  and  those 
of  Matadi  and  Bcmba  had  been  abandoned. 


our  veteran  missioxary.  403 

Death  of  Mr.  Henry  Craven. 

In  the  autumn  of  1S84  the  mission  was  called  on  to 
experience  the  heaviest  loss  in  some  senses  which 
it  had  ever  sustained.  This  time  it  was  no  new 
arrival  carried  off  before  he  commenced  his  work,  but 
a  comparative  veteran,  one  whom  we  regarded  as 
thoroughly  acclimatized,  the  first  pioneer  of  the  under- 
taking, the  estimable  and  well  beloved  Henry  Craven. 
He  entered  into  rest  at  Kabinda,  on  the  14th  of 
October. 

The  tidings  were  very  heavy  ones  to  every  member 
of  the  mission,  both  in  England  and  in  Africa,  and  to 
all  its  friends.  He  had  been  for  nearly  seven  years 
on  the  Congo,  and  though  he  had  often  been  ill  he 
had  recovered,  and  we  hoped  that  he  was  likely  to 
live  and  labour  for  many  years  in  Africa.  And  so 
indeed  he  might  have  done,  but  for  an  error  in  judg- 
ment which  probably  cost  him  his  life.  His  health 
was  naturally  good,  and  his  temperament  the  right  one 
for  a  tropical  climate, — nervous,  sanguine,  energetic, 
with  fair  hair  and  blue  eyes.  He  was  also  cheerful, 
singularly  amiable,  and  patient. 

He  had  borne  the  burden  and  heat  of  the  day,  as  the 
pioneers  of  a  mission  always  have  to  do.  His  early 
difficulties  and  discouragements  were  very  great,  and 
when  they  were  overcome  heavy  responsiblities  began 
to  press  upon  him.  He  was  superintendent  of  the 
lower  stations,  as  Dr.  Sims  was  of  the  upper  ;  and 
Palabala  being  virtually  the  base  of  .supplies  for  all 
the  stations,  a  large  amount  of  correspondence,  ac- 


/ 


404  KABINDA. 

count  kccpinc^,  and  wearying  secular  work  fell  to  his 
share,  work  that  involved  at  times  serious  anxiety 
from  transport  difficulties.  He  was  blessed  with  a 
remarkably  judicious,  practical  wife,  or  he  would  not 
have  stood  the  strain  as  well  as  he  did.  The  nursing 
of  other  missionaries  when  ill  had  often  devolved  on 
him,  and  few  members  of  the  mission  had  not  been 
indebted  to  him  for  kind  care  in  sickness. 

Kabinda,  where  he  died,  is  not  on  the  Congo,  but  in 
the  small  Portuguese  territory  on  the  coast  to  the 
north.  Mr.  Craven  entertained  a  high  opinion  of  the 
salubrity  of  this  place,  and  wished  the  mission  had  a 
sanatorium  there.  The  last  letter  we  ever  had  from 
him  was  dated  from  the  pretty  little  coast-town,  and 
urged  this  suggestion.     He  wrote  : 

I  think  a  station  here  would  be  a  great  boon  to  the  mission.  Of 
course  I  cannot  speak  from  experience  of  the  heallhfulness  of  the  place, 
but  those  who  have  lived  here  many  years  think  highly  of  it.  The 
scenery  is  delightful,  and  the  people  are  desirous  of  instruction.  On 
my  return  to  I'alabala  I  will  consult  with  the  brethren  and  report  to 
you  their  views  on  the  subject. 

Alas  !  he  was  never  to  return  to  Palabala,  and 
Kabinda  was  destined  to  be  a  fatal  place  to  him  !  He 
continues — and  it  is  his  last  report : 

As  to  the  work  of  the  stations  in  my  district,  the  schools  at  Pala- 
bala and  Banza  Manteka  have  been  carried  on  without  interruption, 
though  Mr.  White,  at  IMukimvika,  has  had  his  children  taken  away  on 
account  of  a  palaver  with  the  princes  respecting  the  customs  ;  but  the 
affair  is  now  settled,  and  he  expects  shortly  to  get  the  children  back. 
We  have  had  at  Palabala  two-and-twenty  boarders  for  the  greater  part 
of  the  year  ;  four  of  our  elder  scholars  have  gone  to  help  at  other 
stations  :  Robert  and  Francis  Walker  to  the  Pool,  Vemba  to  Lukungu, 
and  N'koiyo  to  Mukinibungu, 


A   FATAL  CHILL.  405 


Although  I  cannot  report  any  conversions,  yet  both  Mr.  Harvey  and 
myself  are  of  the  opinion  that  at  three  of  our  stations  a  crisis  is  at  hand, 
when  some  will  come  out  boldly  for  Christ.  Things  cannot  continue 
as  they  are  much  longer  ;  there  will  be  a  division  among  the  people  ; 
some  will  decide  for  Christ,  and  others  will  persecute  and  slander.  I 
feel  sure  that  our  converts,  if  true,  will  have  to  suffer  much  for  Christ. 
May  the  Lord  give  them  great  grace,  and  fill  their  hearts  with  His 
own  Spirit ! 

The  six  weeks'  holiday  which  they  had  intended  to 
spend  at  Kabinda  had  passed  pleasantly,  and  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Craven  were  just  about  to  return,  refreshed  and 
invigorated,  when  one  day  he  came  in  from  a  walk 
and  pressed  his  wife  to  go  with  him  to  visit  some 
caves  which  had  greatly  interested  him.  She  de- 
clined, adding,  "  I  advise  you  not  to  go  there  again  ; 
caves  are  chilly  places,  and  I  should  think  dangerous 
in  this  climate.  You  might  get  a  chill."  But  with 
all  his  experience  he  was  not,  alas !  wise  enough  to 
follow  this  counsel.  He  did  revisit  the  cave  to  exa- 
mine more  carefully  some  bones  he  had  seen  there  ; 
he  did  get  a  chill ;  and  the  result  was  fatal !  Fever 
of  the  bilious  remittent  type  was  developed. 

"From  the  first,"  writes  Mr.  Harvey,  "there  were  some  very  bad 
symptoms.  As  however  Mr.  Craven  had  recovered  from  similar 
fevers  before,  neither  he  nor  his  wife  were  alarmed,  but  hoped  that 
he  would  pull  through,  as  previously.  A  very  few  days  however  so 
weakened  him,  that  Mr.  Phillips,  at  whose  house  they  were  staying 
(chief  agent  for  Messrs.  Hatson  &  Cookson,  of  Liverpool),  offered  to 
send  the  steamer  Kahinda  to  Landana  to  secure  the  services  of  Dr. 
Lucan,  who  resides  there,  and  this  offer  was  very  gladly  accepted. 

"When  Dr.  Lucan  arrived,  he  thought  the  case  sufficiently  serious, 
but  hoped  for  the  best  with  careful  treatment  and  good  nursing.  That 
he  had  the  latter,  you  who  know  Mrs.  Craven  will  easily  believe.  The 
medical  advice  also  was  the  very  best  that  could  be  had  on  the  coast, 
and  Mr.   Phillips   himself — who  is  a   man  of  no  little  experience  in 


406  A   NEAVy  LOSS. 

African  fevers — did  all  that  he  possibly  could  in  every  way,  that  tlie 
result  might  be  favourable. 

"  But  it  was  not  so  to  be  I  God's  time  had  come  to  take  His  servant 
home,  and  so  it  came  to  pass  that  at  1.30  p.m.,  on  October  14th, 
Brother  Craven — so  often  weary  and  heartsick,  yet  the  hero  of  a  hun- 
ihed  figlits  for  the  Master  against  heathenism — arrived  at  the  gates  of 
the  city  and  entered  into  eternal  rest,  for  doubtless  an  abundant  entrance 
was  ministered  unto  him." 

Mr.  Eddie  say.s,  writing  of  the  .same  event : 

Great  is  our  recent  loss  in  the  death  of  dear  Mr.  Craven,  who  passed 
into  his  hard-earned  rest  last  month  at  Kabinda. 

We  are  in  deep  sorrow,  but  we  sorrow  not  as  those  who  have  no  hope. 
We  realize  moreover  that  there  is  but  a  step  between  any  one  of  us 
and  death,  between  us  and  our  eternal  home  in  heaven.  That  home 
seems  wondrously  near,  and  we  continually  enjoy  in  communion  with 
our  Lord  sweet  foretastes  of  the  full  and  eternal  communion  we  shall 
have  with  Ilim  above. 

We  arc  wondering  wliom  the  Lord  will  send  to  take  up  and  bear 
Brother  Craven's  burdens  here.  It  is  all  in  our  Father's  hand,  and  we 
look  to  Him.  The  burden  of  work  at  this  station  is  heavy  for  the 
strongest  man,  and  there  is  a  limit  to  our  strength,  though  none  to  our 
will. 

Dear  Henry  Craven  !  He  was  one  whose  Hfe  said, 
"To  me  to  Hve  is  Christ,  and  to  die,  gain."  His  con- 
-secration  was  true,  heartfelt,  and  practical  ;  he  never 
wavered  in  his  devotion  of  himself  to  Christ  or  to 
Africa.  He  realized  the  unccrtaint)-  of  life  on  the 
Congo,  and  often  spoke  of  his  consciousness  of  the 
nearness  of  eternity,  and  of  his  intense  desire  so  to 
live  as  to  be  approved  in  the  day  of  Christ. 

Nothing  would  have  induced  him  to  turn  from  the 
task  to  which  he  had  given  himself.  In  spite  of  all 
its  sorrows  and  its  difficulties,  he  clung  to  it.  He  had 
much  of  the  spirit  of  Christ,  compassionating  the 
natives,  and  sincerely  loving  them..     He  was  a  man  of 


''TH\    WILL  BE  DONE. 


407 


nervous,  intense,  and  affectionate  nature,  who  threw 
himself  fervently  into  his  work.  His  transparent 
sincerity  and  perfect  truthfulness  made  even  the  poor 
Africans  respect  and  trust  him.  The  mission  could 
ill  spare  him,  and  could  not  easily  replace  him.  His 
experience  had  fitted  him  to  be  useful  as  no  stranger 
could  be.  To  us  it  seemed  mysterious  that  he  should 
thus  be  called  up  higher  at  a  very  critical  stage  in  the 
history  of  the  mission.  But  we  dared  not  question 
the  providence  of  God,  or  doubt  that  this  most  unex- 
pected removal  was  among  the  all  things  that  work 
together  for  o-ood. 


4o8  MR.  /.   H.    HOSTE. 


Several  new  workers  had  joined  the  mission 
this  year — fully  aware  of  all  its  risks  and  hardships. 
Mr.  J.  H.  Hoste,  son  of  General  and  Mrs.  Hoste,  of 
Brighton,  was  one  of  these.  His  parents  have  been 
privileged  to  give  three  of  their  sons  to  the  foreign 
mission-field.  This  one,  previously  a  young  naval 
officer,  had  been  converted  and  had  heard  the  call  to 
fight  under  a  better  banner.  We  saw  in  him  much 
of  the  quiet,  dauntless.  Christian  courage  and  good 
judgment  which  are  so  needful  in  missionary  work, 
as  well  as  much  of  the  compassionate  and  self-sacri- 
ficing spirit  of  Christ,  and  we  were  rejoiced  that  he 
felt  led  to  devote  himself  to  Africa.  He  went  up 
through  all  the  stations  in  the  Cataract  region  to 
Stanley  Pool,  and  intended  to  have  made  with 
Dr.  Sims  a  voyage  on  the  Upper  Congo,  hoping  to 
establish  a  station  at  the  Stanley  Falls.  But  the 
time  for  that  was  not  then  come,  nor  indeed  is  it 
so  even  now  ;  and  Mr.  Hoste  ultimately  settled  at 
Lukunga,  where  he  has  been  greatly  blessed. 

Mr.  John  McKittrick,  of  Belfast,  and  Mr.  Glenesk 
also  sailed  for  the  Congo  this  year,  and  two  single 
sisters.  Miss  Cole  and  Miss  Harris.  The  former  is 
now  Mrs.  Richards,  of  Banza  ]\Ianteka,  and  the  latter 
became  Mrs.  Harvey.  Mr.  Albert  E.  Insell  also 
reached  the  Congo  in  January  of  this  year.  He  went 
out  as  engineer  for  the  Henry  Reed,  but  never  got 
beyond  Tundwa,  where  he  died  of  fever,  after  being 
only  a  few  weeks  in  the  country.  He  was  rallying 
from    the   attack,    which    had    been    brought   on    by 


MJi.   ALBERT  E.  INSELL.  409 

unwise  exposure  to  the  sun,  when  an  alarm  of  a 
native  "  war,"  close  by  the  house,  agitated  him  afresh, 
and  induced  a  fatal  relapse.  He  was  a  devoted 
young  man,  and  much  attached  to  the  native  lads, 
who  had  been  with  us  in  England. 

Here  we  must  close  the  second  section  of  our 
book,  and  the  history  ot  our  more  direct  connexion 
with  the  Livingstone  Inland  Mission.  Since  1884  it 
has  been  directed  and  sustained  from  Boston,  U.S.A. 
For  the  following  four  or  five  years  we  did  nothing 
on  the  Congo,  and  but  little  for  it ;  simply  forwarding 
to  our  friends  in  Boston  such  funds  as  we  received  on 
account  of  the  enterprise,  and  corresponding  more  or 
less  with  the  workers.  Then,  as  will  be  seen  later  on, 
we  resumed — on  the  upper  river,  in  connexion  with 
a  fresh  and  auxiliary  effort  on  the  southern  tributaries, 
— efforts  on  behalf  of  Central  Africa. 


SECTION     III. 

LIGHT  AT  LAST  ; 

OR, 

A   MORNING   OF  JOY   ON    THE   CONGO. 

1SS5-189O. 


411 


TIIEY  THAT   SOW   IX   TEARS   SHALL   REAP   I.N   JOY. 

412 


CHAPTER    I. 
THE  BEGINNING  OF  SPIRITUAI  BLESSING. 

We  must  here  anticipate  the  gradually  unfolding 
events  of  the  next  few  years,  as  time  fails  us  to  trace 
them  all  seriatim;  and  state  that  the  regenerating 
work  of  the  Spirit  of  God  in  the  hearts  of  the  Congo 
people,  of  which  such  hopeful  firstfruits  were  seen 
in  1884,  grew  in  power  and  spread  in  extent  during 
the  following  years,  filling  with  joy  and  praise  the 
hearts  that  had  so  often  groaned  in  heaviness. 

At  most  of  the  stations  there  were  converts  ;  many 
of  these  sought  themselves  to  spread  the  gospel  ; 
gradually  the  movement  became  more  widespread. 
Candidates  for  baptism  came  forward,  not  by  units 
but  by  tens,  and  at  one  station  even  by  hundreds. 
The  seed  was  springing.  It  had  long  been  watered 
with  tears  and  blood,  and  now  God  was  giving  the 
increase.  Our  hearts  were  filled  with  joy  and  thanks- 
giving, it  seemed  almost  too  good  to  be  true  ! 

The  dear  missionaries  however  had  no  doubt  as  to 
the  truly  spiritual  nature  of  the   work,  or  its   witness 


JOSEPH    CLARKE,    OF    PALABALA. 

to  the  gospel  as  the  power  of  God  to  salvation.  IMr. 
Joseph  Clarke,  of  Palabala  Station,  wrote  about  this 
awakening  : 

"  About  two  months  ago,  at  oar  Alukimhungu  Station,  there 
were  several  candidates  for  baptism.  Of  these,  five  gave  good 
evidence  of  a  change  of  heart,  and,  being  supported  in  their 
request  by  the  resident  missionary,  they  were  baptized.  Seven 
weeks  afterwards  two  otl'.eis  at  the  same  station  were  also  bap' 
tizcd.     We    were    greatly  cheered  at    this,  as  some    of  these 

4'4 


A   CONVERTED    WITCH-DOCTOR.  415 

converts  had  stood  faithfully  by  the  truth  amid  a  great  deal  of 
persecution. 

"  Recently  we  have  had  a  more  widespread  movement  at 
Banza  ]\Ianteka,  where  our  brother  Richards  has  laboured  for 
about  eight  years.  One  after  another  has  been  brought  in 
during  the  past  twelve  months,  till  there  are  now  seventeen 
candidates  for  baptism. 

"  And,  to  the  glory  of  God  be  it  told,  a  revival  has  begun 
within  the  past  fortnight,  and  by  the  last  report  at  least  twenty 
professed  conversion  within  that  time.  Mr.  Richards,  in  his 
note,  said,  '  I  have  no  time  to  write — the  house  is  full  of 
anxious  ones.'  He  has  had  a  visit  from  brothers  Harvey  and 
Probert,  but  they  could  not  stay.  He  however  is  in  good 
health,  in  spite  of  labours  abundant,  and  finds  great  comfort  and 
help  amongst  the  earlier  converts,  especially  one  Lutete,  who 
formerly  was  a  '  witch-doctor.'  This  Lutete's  wife  is  also  con- 
verted, and  lends  very  good  help  in  dealing  with  the  women, 
several  of  whom  are  among  the  converts. 

"  Mr.  Richards  has  just  completed  a  translation  of  Luke's 
Gospel,  and  is  now  revising  it  for  the  press,  while  Mr.  Harvey 
sends  Mark's  Gospel  by  this  mail  ready  for  printing." 

Later  on  Mr.  Stephen  White,  who  had  recently 
returned  to  the  Congo  after  a  stay  in  England,  was 
at  Mr.  Richards'  station  on  his  way  up  the  country, 
and  wrote  us  the  following  glad  tidings  : 

"  During  the  last  month  hundreds  of  the  people  have  been 
converted  to  God,  and  one  who  saw  them  five  years  ago,  as  I 
did,  and  sees  them  again  now,  can  see  the  great  change,  and 
cannot  but  praise  God  for  His  vvondefful  grace,  which  has 
brought  them  salvation.  Their  faces  tell  the  story,  and  their 
lives  confirm  their  profession. 

"  This  evening  two  of  the  converts  returned  from  a  preach- 
ing tour,  and  they  have  visited  several  villages.  They  report 
five  conversions.  They  n1et  with  a  good  deal  of  opposition,  and 
some  of  the  people  thrcatettc'd  to  shodt  them  ;  but  they  replied 


4i6  "  CONGO  FOR   CHRIST." 


that  they  were  not  afraid  of  death  now,  for  it  was  not  death  to 
them,  but  only  going  to  be  with  Jesus.  One  man  got  up  and 
defended  them,  and  said  he  would  kill  any  one  who  killed 
them.  From  this  same  town  a  man  and  his  family  have  been 
driven  away,  because  he  tried  to  teach  his  fellow  townsmen 
what  he  himself  has  learned.  He  is  rejoicing  in  his  new-found 
love. 

"  I  wish  those  who  take  an  interest  in  the  work  out  here  could 
just  peep  in  at  the  morning  and  evening  services,  and  see  with 
what  vigour  the  people  sing  the  hymns  of  praise,  the  eagerness 
with  which  they  drink  in  the  word,  and  the  simple,  childlike 
faith  they  show  in  their  prayers.  They  would  pray  and  give 
more  liberally  to  forward  the  glorious  work  of  '  Congo  for 
Christ.' " 

Subsequent  tidings  from  Mr.  Harvey  reported  a 
general  stir  throughout  the  country,  and  evangelistic 
journeys  undertaken  by  the  native  converts  along 
with  some  of  the  missionaries  to  Lukunga  and  other 
places,  and  of  the  brethren  being  filled  with  joy  and 
praise. 

Mr.  J.  H.  Hostc,  then  at  Mukimbungu  Station,  also 
wrote  hopefully  of  many  converts  at  his  own  station  : 

"  Our  work  is  having  such  a  marked  effect  on  the  young  men 
of  the  countr)',  that  the  older  men  are  displeased,  and  we  get 
daily  notices  that  we  are  going  to  be  burned  or  killed  ;  but  these 
reports  do  not  trouble  me  much.  All  the  youths  want  to  live 
with  us  ;  they  are  beginning  to  see  something  of  the  reasonable- 
ness and  beauty  of  the  teaching,  which  contrasts  so  forcibly 
with  their  exclusively  selfish  system  of  worship.  I  asked  a  man 
the  other  day,  if,  when  he  prayed  to  his  idol,  he  asked  it  ever 
to  send  good  things  to  others .''  The  idea  was  too  tidiculous  for 
his  gravity  !  The  great  problem  of  their  life  is  how  to  get 
\\\\ngs  for  tJieiiiseh'es.     .     .     . 


MR.  HOSTE'S  ACCOUNT.  417 

"  I  have  just  come  in  from  a  hand-to-hand  struggle  with 
a  man  who  wanted  to  shoot  his  wife.  I  would  far  rather  not 
interfere  in  such  matters,  but  I  could  not  see  my  way  out  of 
it,  as  only  a  little  boy  seemed  inclined  to  do  anything  to 
prevent  the  catastrophe.  The  state  of  these  people  seems  to 
me  to  be  absolutely  and  exclusively  miserable  !  I  cannot  see 
a  redeeming  point  about  it  !  Their  polygamy  and  selfishness 
seem  to  exclude  affection  and  peace,  or  any  shadow  of  satis- 
faction.    .     .     . 

"  You  will  be  rejoiced  to  hear  that  at  last  the  Lord  is  showing 
us  His  power  out  here.  We  do  not  live  now  by  faith,  but  by 
sight  !  There  has  been  a  regular  revival  at  Banza  Manteka  ; 
and  some  hundreds  have  given  themselves  to  Jesus.  Here 
also  the  Lord  has  not  forgotten  us  ;  about  twenty  already  have 
been  converted.  It  is  so  blessed  to  see  the  heathen  turning  to 
Christ.  I  feel  very  restful  in  this  matter.  The  efficacy  of  the 
work  does  not  depend  on  me  ;  I  did  not  save  their  souls,  and  I 
have  not  to  keep  them,  but  simply  to  hand  them  the  bread  of 
life  as  God  gives  it  to  me.  How  thankful  I  am  now  that  God 
permitted  me  to  s/ay  out  here  and  not  to  go  home  ! 

I  have  to  work  hard,  translating  and  preparing  for  this  little 
flock.  I  believe  God  will  add  unto  us  again.  I  am  so  grateful 
to  God  that  He  gave  me  a  good,  healthy  appetite  for  the  lan- 
guage. Some  people  said  they  thought  my  head  would  go,  but 
I  had  rather  see  that  go  than  my  heart  ;  and  now  to-day  the 
blessed  gospel  is  preached,  and  the  Lord  Jesus  sees  of  the 
travail  of  His  soul  !  One  young  fellow  has  just  told  me  that 
his  chief  has  been  keeping  him  from  coming  to  hear  the  preach- 
ing, but  that  to-day  he  has  made  up  his  mind  that  he  must 
follow  Jesus,  and  Jesus  only.  I  expect  some  visitors  in  a  day 
or  two,  brethren  coming  down  for  the  council  meeting  at 
Banza  Manteka  ;  they  want  me  to  go  there  with  them,  but  I 
feel  like  Nehemiah,  that  there  is  a  great  work  to  be  done  here, 

C.  A.  27 


MR.   J.    H.    HOSTE. 


and  I  do  not  want  to  leave  it.  You  cannot  think  how  happy  I 
am  ;  it  is  so  blessed  to  see  the  work  of  God  in  the  heart  ot 
these  savages,  for  really  they  are  nothing  else.  I  have  translated 
the  Apostles'  Creed,,  to  be  our  confession  of  faith,  and  I  am 
teaching  it  to  them  now. 

"  Mr.  White  kindly  came  down  here  to  try  and  persuade  me 
to  go  home,  and  to  lock  up  the  station  ;  but  I  could  not  do  it, 
and  the  very  day  that  he  left  I  went  out  to  preach  in  the  after- 
noon, and  the  Lord  touched  the  heart  of  the  very  man  whom  I 
had  stopped  from  shooting  his  wife,  and  the  next  day  he  came 
and  told  me  that  he  had  given  himself  to  Christ." 


SHAKING  AMONG   THS,   DRV  B0N£S.  419 

The  following  account  of  this  most  interesting 
movement  is  from  the  pen  of  !\Ir.  Richards. 

"  Since  my  return  from  England  I  have  been  working, 
studying,  and  praying  for  a  blessing  on  the  work  ;  and  for  a 
long  time  it  seemed  all  in  vain.  But  about  some  fifteen  months 
ago,  a  man  and  his  wife  were  converted,  and  I  began  to  expect 
more.  Some  months  however  had  elapsed  when  another  man 
declared  himself  on  the  Lord's  side.  Shortly  after,  another 
came  boldly  out.  I  continued  to  study  hard,  work  earnestly, 
and  pray  believingly.  For  some  time  I  have  been  praying  for 
a  more  complete  consecration, — to  be  filled  with  the  Holy 
Spirit  and  power  for  service,  and  for  a  Pentecostal  outpouring 
of  the  Holy  Spirit  on  the  people. 

"  I  had  also  just  commenced  special  services  in  all  the  towns. 
I  locked  up  the  house,  took  the  harmonium,  the  children,  and 
converts,  and  sang  and  preached  the  gospel  to  the  people  all  day 
long.  The  bones  that  had  been  shaking  for  some  time  past 
began  to  stand  up,  and  show  very  evident  signs  of  life.  Truly 
the  Pentecostal  power  came  as  I  have  never  seen  before ;  for 
the  people  began  to  bring  out  their  idols  for  us  to  burn,  and  to 
cry,  '  What  must  we  do  to  be  saved  ? ' 

"  There  was  much  opposition  and  persecution,  which  only 
seemed  to  increase  the  spiritual  power  ;  for  the  bitterest  ene- 
mies and  the  greatest  sinners  were  brought  under  conviction  of 
sin.  The  interest  increased,  and  the  people  came  up  in  large 
numbers  to  the  station.  The  house  became  too  strait,  and  we 
were  obliged  to  hold  the  services  in  the  open  air,  and  have  con- 
tinued to  do  so  up  to  the  present  time  ;  and  we  have  more  than 
seven  hundred  convdrts.  The  glorious  fact  is  this,  that  Banza 
Manteka  is  no  longer  a  heathen  country,  but  more  Christian 
than  any  I  am  acquainted  with.     I  latve  scarcely  had  time  to 


420  CHRISTIAN  BANZA   MANTEKA. 

eat ;  for,  from  iiiot7ting  till  night,  I  have  been  busy  preaching, 
receiving  inquirers,  and  treating  the  sick. 

"  I  have  had  one  of  the  officers  of  the  Congo  Free  State  (a 
Swedish  gentleman)  staying  with  me  for  eight  days,  to  measure 
the  mission  land,  and  he  writes  from  here  to  Palabala  as 
follows  : 

'  I  was  rather  tired  when  I  reached  the  top  of  the  hill  above  Han/a 
Mantcka.  I  was  changed  in  a  moment  when  I  saw  before  me,  in  bird's- 
eye  view,  the  pretty  villages  and  green  ravines.  The  tones  of  a  bell 
greeted  me,  and  the  whole  impression  was  one  of  peace.  I  was  not 
wrong.  Arrived  here,  I  could  not  believe  my  eyes  I  I  beheld  Mr. 
Richards  preaching  in  the  middle  of  a  large  number  of  men  and  women 
throwing  away  their  "nkissis."  That  is  to  say,  I  have  been  witness 
to  an  event  of  great  importance ;  and  Banza  Manteka  will  be  distin- 
guished in  the  future  Congo  history  as  the  first  Christian  parish, — to-day 
already  mere  than  six  hxndred  Chrisiiaii  people. 

'  I  remain,  yours  sincerely, 

•C.  R.  KAK.A.NSJON.' 

"This  is  testimony  from  an  outsider,  which  makes  it  of  more 
value  than  if  it  came  from  within,  or  from  ourselves.  Yes,  all 
praise  and  glory  to  God  our  Father !  The  '  nkimba,'  the 
'  nkissis,'  the  poison-giving,  the  throat-cutting,  the  demoniacal 
yells,  the  diabolical  dance,  and  witchcraft,  are  things  of  the 
past  here.  '  Old  things  have  passed  away,  and,  behold,  all 
things  are  become  new.'  Now  this  part  of  Ethiopia  stretches 
out  its  hands  to  God,  and  sends  out  its  heart  and  voice  to 
Him  in  thanksgiving  and  praise.  I  shall  begin  to  baptize  as 
early  as  possible.     Pray  for  us.     Jesus  shall  reign  I  " 

Mr.  T.  T.  France  (U.S.A.)  writes  later  on  : 

Opposition  is  principally  on  the  part  of  the  ii<^angas,  or  medicine-men, 
who  fear  losing  their  craft  and  llicir  living  ;  hence  we  fail  to  get  a  hear- 


TURNING    TO   GOD  FROM  IDOLS. 


421 


ing  when  it  is  known  that  the  chief  or  the  nganga  does  not  wish  the 
gospel  to  be  preached  in  the  village.  On  the  other  hand,  when  they  run 
no  risk  of  incurring  the  displeasure  of  either,  the  common  people  hear 
us  gladly.  Even  this  difficulty  however  is  dying  away.  The  cliiefs 
and  nganga,  in  spite  of  their  efforts,  are  losing  their  hold  of  the  people. 
The  revival  has  done  much  to  set  the  native  mind  from 
the  superstition  in  which  it  had  been  held  ;  and  the 
spiritual  condition  of  many  in  that  region  may  be  likened 
to  the  seeing  men  "  as  trees,  walking." 


THROWING   DOWN   THE   NKISSIS. 


The  Banza  Manteka  Church  is  an  unanswerable  argument  to  the 
heathen.  The  fact  that  no  harm  has  come  upon  those  who  had  thrown 
away  or  burnt  their  nkissis  (charms),  and  had  left  off  following  their 
jigaugas  in  spite  of  their  predictions  of  death  or  disaster,  appeals  very 
strongly  to  the  heathen,  and  is  leading  many  to  see  through  the  decep- 
tions which  have  been  practised  upon  them. 

In  addition  to  this  is  the  witness  the  Banza  Manteka  flock  bears  to 
Jesus.  Taught  that  it  is  their  duty  to  make  kno\\n  the  way  of  life  to 
their  fellows,  and  with  many  among  them  smitten  with  a  consuming 
desire  to  bring  their  brethren  to  participate  in  the  liberty  and  peace 
they  have  found  through  faith  in  Christ,  these  native  Christians  of 
Banza  Manteka  embrace  every  opportunity  of  delivering  the  message  of 
salvation. 

On  the  road,  as  they  halt  to  prepare  their  food  for  the  mid-day  meal, 
or  in  the  evening  around  the  camp-fires,  they  fail  not  to  speak  of  the 
things  pertaining  to  the  kingdom  ;  telling  some  poor,  dark  soul  the 
story  of  the  Cross  or  some  other  Bible  story,  or  sjieaking  one  with 
another  of  the  great  things  the  Lord  hath  done  for  thcin.     They  seem 


422 


"  GO,     TELL    TILV  FK LENDS. 


to  be  entlowed  with  the  faculty  of  turning  an  ordinary  conversation  into 
a  religious  one ;  and  often,  as  I  listened  to  iheni  going  over  their  past 
lives,  recounting  the  follies  and  deceptions  in  which  they  //«</ believed, 
the  bondage  and  fears  in  which  they  had  been  held,  and  contrasting 
these  with  their  present  enlightenment,  liberty,  and  joyful  hope,  I 
have  been  moved  to  join  with  them  in  blessing  the  Lord  for  the 
wondrous  grace  which  has  transformed  these  dark  heathens  into  loyal 
followers  of  the  loving  Jesus. 


'•AS   TUEV    HALT   TO    I'KEl'AKE   THE   MIU-DAY    Ml.AL.'   [See  /.  42I.) 


The  1 6th  of  June  was  a  day  I  shall  long  remember.  I  had  purposed 
during  the  week  to  spend  the  day  in  Kinkanza,  one  of  the  largest  towns 
in  that  section  of  the  country,  some  ten  or  twelve  miles  from  the  station, 
whose  inhabitants  are  not  too  well  disposed  towards  the  gospel. 
Thomas,  one  of  our  brightest  Christians,  and  a  very  successful  evan- 
gelist too,  had  seen  me  during  the  week,  and  promised  to  accompany 
me  to  this  place.  On  Sunday  morning,  at  the  time  appointed,  he  turned 
up,  and   with  him  Moses,  another  sterling  brother,  full  of  grace  and 


TAKING  PART  IN   THE   ''WITNESSING:'  423 

power  for  service,  and  a  few  others.  But  besides  these,  there  were 
about  twelve  women,  all  Christians,  inckiding  Thomas's  mother.  When 
I  first  saw  them,  I  thought  that  they  had  come  on  their  own  business, 
and  that  they  would  stop  in  some  of  the  towns  we  should  pass  by  on 
our  way.     But  we  passed  town  after  town,  and  they  did  not  stop. 

As  we  neared  the  place,  I  ventured  to  ask  where  they  were  going. 
To  my  great  joy  and  surprise  they  said  they  were  going  with  us  to 
take  their  part  of  "  the  witnessing. "  This  is  an  expression  peculiar 
to  them, — "witnessing"  ;  and  their  part  of  the  witnessing  they  most 
faithfully  took.  Dividing  ourselves  into  several  bands,  for  we  num- 
bered about  thirty  in  all,  we  went  through  the  extensive  plateau  over 
which  the  town  spreads,  in  a  house  to  house  visitation  work  ;  the 
female  Christians  joyfully  testifying  of  their  deliverance  and  freedom 
in  Christ,  and  exhorting  their  timid  heathen  sisters,  still  held  in  a 
most  deplorable  form  of  superstitious  awe  and  bondage,  to  the  partici- 
pation of  the  same  blessing  through  faith  in  Jesus.  There  are  some 
believers  in  this  town,  and  they  came  out  and  joined  us.  On  the 
whole,  we  had  a  very  blessed  time,  and  concluded  the  day's  work  with 
a  prayer-meeting  in  one  of  the  squares  of  the  place,  with  many  of  the 
heathens  standing  around  and  watching  us.  We  had  begun  the  day 
in  the  same  way  in  another  quarter  of  the  town. 

More  recently  Mr.  Fredrickson  writes  from  Banza 
Manteka  : 

May  25th  was  a  day  of  great  joy  to  all  here.  Mr.  Ingham  and  I  bap- 
tized into  the  death  of  Christ  forty-nine  who  confessed  their  faith  in 
Him  as  their  Saviour.  Many  of  those  had  come  a  distance  from  six  to 
eight  miles  ;  and  as  the  baptism  was  on  a  Saturday,  they  slept  here  in 
town  close  to  the  station,  and  were  on  the  Sunday  received  into  the 
Church,  taking  part  in  the  breaking  of  bread  and  in  prayer.  About 
four  hundred  people  had  come  down  to  the  water  to  share  our  joy. 
Since  then  we  have  baptized  twenty  more. 

Mr.  Whytock  and  Mrs.  McKittrick,  of  the  Congo-Balolo 
Mission  (of  which  we  have  yet  to  speak),  in  passing  up  the 
Cataract  region  in  1889  both  wrote  to  us  of  incidents  at  Banza 
Manteka.  Their  accounts  give  sketches  of  the  Church  as 
it  is  to-day,  in  that  first  Christian  centre  in  Congoland, 
where  the  glorious  work  of  conversion  still  goes  on. 


424  A    CONGO  BAPTISM. 


Mr.  Whytock  writes  : 

While  detained  at  Banza  Manteka  I  had  the  privilege  of  addressing; 
the  Church  on  the  Lord's  day  (Brother  P'redrickson  translating  for  me), 
and  had  also  the  joy  of  sitting  down  at  the  Lord's  table  with  hundreds 
of  these  dear  people.  One  afternoon  I  witnessed  the  baptism  of  twenty 
of  the  converts,  and  wish  I  could  describe  to  you  that  most  interesting 
scene  !  It  was  on  the  nth  June,  about  two  miles  south  of  the  station, 
in  a  sweet  little  valley,  in  some  pools  fed  by  perennial  springs  from  the 
hills.  Near  tlie  water's  edge  grew  a  cluster  of  palms  and  some  flower- 
ing trees,  which  threw  a  soft  and  welcome  shade  over  the  pool.  The 
nearer  slope  of  the  hill  beside  us  was  planted  out  with  fruit-trees  and 
tall  waving  maize ;  farther  up  and  beyond,  the  grass  with  which  one 
becomes  so  familiar  in  Congoland.  From  various  towns  and  hamlets 
among  the  hills  the  people  came  in  to  this  selected  spot,  to  witness  the 
baptisms. 

We  were  seated  at  one  end  of  the  pool  (Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ingham  and 
myself).  Beneath  the  palms  and  beliind  us,  thickly  clustered  on  the 
grass  or  standing  around,  was  a  crowd  of  about  two  hundred  people. 
Most  of  these  had  already  made  a  profession  of  their  faith,  and  were 
now  present  to  see  their  friends  received  into  the  Church  of  Christ. 

On  the  other  side  of  the  pool,  seated  on  the  bank,  were  the 
candidates  for  baptism,  sixteen  women,  two  men,  and  two  boys. 
Noticing  the  disproportion,  Mr.  Fredrickson  remarked,  so  I  was  in- 
formed, in  the  course  of  his  address,  that  as  woman  was  first  in  the 
transgression,  so  she  seemed  to  be  first  to  forsake  her  sins  and  flee  to 
Christ.  The  majority  of  the  Banza  RLanteka  Church  are  women,  and 
they  are  said  to  be  the  brightest  Christians. 

The  proceedings  began  with  a  hymn,  "Jesus  the  water  of  life  has 
given,"  which  was  caught  up  and  sung  with  wonderful  correctness. 
What  the  singing  lacked  in  culture  was  made  up  in  heartiness.  You 
could  see  that  the  people  sing  with  the  spirit  and  with  the  under- 
standing also.  One  of  the  evangelists,  David,  the  son  of  the  old 
king  Makokila  (who  by  the  way  died  since  I  left),  led  in  prayer. 
"  Come,  ye  that  love  the  Lord,"  was  then  sung,  and  the  names  of  the 
candidates  were  read  over,  and  an  address  from  Ingham  followed. 
More  prayer  and  praise,  and  Brother  Fredrickson  spoke,  and  then 
went  down  into  the  water,  and  the  candidates  two  and  two  followed 
him,    and    were   baptized.     Judging  from  the  serious  and  intelligent 


"GOD  BLESS   THE  LADS."  425 

expression  of  their  faces,  they  seemed  to  be  much  impressed  by  the 
solemnity  of  the  occasion,  and  as  each  couple  came  up  out  of  the 
water,  the  people  struck  up  with  great  vigour  the  verse  of  a  hymn. 
To  me  perhaps  the  most  affecting  part  was  the  baptism  of  the  two 
boys,  which  took  place  last.  They  are  both  scholars  in  the  school, 
and  have  given  clear  evidence  of  their  conversion  to  God.  One  of 
them  was  such  a  tiny  little  chap.  It  brought  tears  of  joy  to  my  eyes. 
I  could  not  but  breathe  again  and  again  the  prayer,  "God  bless  the 
lads  ! "  Before  Brother  Fredrickson  baptized  them,  he  put  his  hands 
on  their  heads  and  prayed  over  them.  On  the  waters  of  the  pool  in 
which  they  stood,  just  beside  them,  were  water-lilies,  with  their  beautiful 
flowers  and  shapely  gi-een  leaves  floating  on  the  surface  :  symbols,  I 
thought,  of  the  lives  the  Lord  would  have  us  and  these  dear  boys  live. 
"  Lives  all  lily  fair,  and  fragrant  as  the  place  where  seraphs  are." 

I  pray  God  that  He  may  spare  me  and  my  dear  brethren  of  the 
Congo  Balolo  mission  to  witness  many  such  scenes  in  the  interior ! 

Mrs.  McKittrick  writes  : 

The  mission  premises  here  are  more  extensive  than  at  Palabala,  and 
are  in  splendid  order.  The  iron  church,  capable  of  holding  500  people, 
stands  in  the  middle  of  the  site.  On  one  side  is  the  Inghams'  house, 
with  the  usual  appendages  of  cook-house,  store,  boy's  house,  etc.,  and 
on  the  other  side  is  Mr.  Richards'  compound,  now  inhabited  by  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Fredrickson.  In  both  yards  are  flocks  of  sheep  and  goals, 
and  a  goodly  number  of  fowls  and  ducks.  All  round  the  station  rises 
Africa's  chief  beauty,  the  palm.  Looking  out  of  the  window  of  the 
house  in  which  we  are  staying,  I  can  count  over  thirty  of  these  useful 
and  ornamental  trees,  either  on  the  mission  ground  or  just  outside  its 
limits. 

We  have  all  been  for  a  walk  tliis  evening,  visiting  some  of  the 
villages  near  at  hand. 

A  great  many  of  the  people  whom  we  saw  are  Christians  and  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  ;  indeed,  whole  towns  formerly  given  up  to  the 
idolatries  and  superstitions  of  heathenism  are  now  rejoicing  in  the  light 
and  freedom  of  the  gospel.  We  found  two  familiar  faces  in  the  towns, 
Mavuzi  and  Francis  Walker,  who  were  in  England  six  years  ago,  and 
are  now  both  settled  down  in  their  towns  as  Christian  married  men. 


426  REAL   PRAISE. 


The  meeting  in  the  church  was  held  at  one  o'clock,  but  Mr.  Ingham 
conducted  previously  a  Sunday  school  and  a  prayer-meeting.  Many  of 
the  congregation  come  from  considerable  distances,  and  when  they 
do  meet  together  are  not  satisfied  with  less  than  two  or  three  hours' 
preaching. 

The  bell  was  rung  for  about  an  hour  while  the  congregation  were 
assembling,  and  at  the  appointed  time  three  or  four  hundred  people 
were  in  their  seats,  the  men  on  one  side,  the  women  and  children  on 
the  other.  This  arrangement  is  for  convenience'  sake  only,  because  the 
men  do  not  wish  to  be  disturbed  by  the  babies,  and  not,  as  in  Syria, 
because  it  is  the  custom  of  the  country  for  men  and  women  to  be 
separated.  Mr.  Ingham  gave  out  verse  by  verse  a  hymn,  which  was 
sung  most  heartily,  both  the  tune  and  time  being  tolerably  correct. 
That  the  people  thoroughly  enjoyed  the  singing  was  evident  from  their 
shining  faces  and  vigorous  exercise  of  mouth  and  lungs  I  I  have  heard 
some  strange  attempts  at  singing  in  the  villages  on  Mount  Lebanon, 
but  I  have  never  heard  anything  to  equal  the  noise  and  vocal  exertions 
of  these  Banza  Manteka  Christians,  and  they  appeared  more  refreshed 
than  tired  by  their  efforts  when  all  was  over  !  (ireat  and  small  joined 
in.  Old  Makokila  lifted  up  his  voice  with  the  others,  and  the  great 
wave  of  sound,  not  only  filled  the  building,  but  must  have  been  heard 
miles  away.  //  'iOas  real  praise,  there  'cas  no  doubt  of  that  '.  A  portion 
of  Scripture  was  read  aloud,  and  expounded  by  Mr.  Ingham,  followed 
by  other  hymns  and  by  prayer.  Then  Mr.  Fredrickson  preached,  and 
was  listened  to  attentively. 


Service  over,  we  were  surrounded  by  our  coloured  brethren  and 
sisters,  wishful  to  make  our  acquaintance  and  take  us  by  the  hand.  We 
spoke  to  so  many,  that  it  would  be  impossible  to  remember  all  the 
names,  but  among  those  I  was  introduced  to  were  Adam,  Xoah,  Peter, 
Paul,  John,  Malachi,  Lazanis,  and  Moses. 

Similar  results  of  spiritual  blessing  have  been  ex- 
perienced at  most  of  the  mission  stations,  especially 
at  Lukunga  and  Palabala.  A  native  Church  exists  in 
each  place,  and  there  are  among  the  converts  many 
preachers  of  the  gospel.  The  following  chapter  will 
give  an  idea  of  the  character  of  Congo  Christians. 


MR.     HENRY     RICHARDS, 
OF    UANZA    MANTEKA. 


CHAPTER    II. 


A    CHAT    WITH  MR.   RICHARDS    OF 
BANZA    MANTEKA. 

WANT  you  to  tell  me  something  about  the 
African  Christians.  You  were  labouring 
some  years,  I  think,  before  you  had  any 
converts  ? 

Yes  ;  six  years  more  or  less  !  Of  course 
I  had  at  first  to  build  and  plant  and  get 
acclimatized.  Then  I  had  to  learn  the  lan- 
guage— no  easy  task  when  you  have  no 
teacher  and  no  books.  It  was  years  before 
I  could  understand  and  enjoy  hearing  it, 
and  before  I  could  use  it  with  any  power. 

Yes,  of  course  !  And  you  had  illnesses 
and  deep  sorrows  ? 

I  had.  God  blessed  them  to  me.  On  my 
first  visit  to  England  on  account  of  health 
I  was  greatly  exercised  about  the  apparent  lack 
of  blessing  in  Africa.  I  felt  I  must  be  blessed 
if  I  was  to  be  made  a  blessing.  And  when  I  got 
back  my  one  desire  was  for  converts.  A  great 
yearning  for  souls  took  possession  of  me.  I  could  not  sleep 
for  it  sometimes,  and  had  to  pray  God  to  take  it  away,  for  it 
was  consuming  me.  But  there  was  no  sign  of  blessing.  I 
resolved  to  go  elsewhere  if  the  word  bore  no  fruit  at  Banza 
Manteka.  But  first  I  asked  myself  what  was  the  fault  1  I 
was  preaching  the  truth,  and  the  people  listened  ;  but  they 
did  not  seem  iofeel  in  the  least. 

Yet  you  were  in  earnest,  were  you  not  ? 

Dead  in  earnest  !     But  as  I  read  I  began  to  see  I  had  been 
429 


430  THE  MISSIONARY'S  FIRST  WORK. 

trying  the  wrong  way  to  do  good  to  the  heathen.  I  had  been 
much  occupied  with  many  things,  and  the  one  great  thing  to 
which  a  missionary  should  devote  himself  mainly,  if  not  exclu- 
sively, ^/yvj^/!///^'-,  had  not  been  made  prominent  enough.  It  is 
so  easy  in  Congo  to  get  distracted.  There  is  so  much  to  do. 
Building,  planting,  ordinary  business  of  various  sorts,  learning 
the  language,  teaching,  writing,  travelling, — all  these  things  are 
apt  to  squeeze  the  preaching  into  a  corner. 

I  can  easily  understand  that  I  Congo  is  like  England  in  that 
respect. 

Ay  !  but  the  consequences  are  more  serious  there.  Preaching 
— "the  foolishness  of  preaching" — is  God's  one  great  ordinance 
for  the  salvation  of  men.  When  the  revival  came  I  was  no 
longer  satisfied  with  occasional  services  and  regular  Sunday 
work.  I  gave  myself  to  preaching  daily— twice  a  day.  One 
year  I  preached  seven  hundred  times.  And  the  people  don't 
care  for  short  sermons.  They  like  a  full  hour  or  hour  and  a 
half.     They  have  so  much  to  learn. 

But  surely  people  could  never  attend  so  many  and  such  long 
meetings  t 

Ah  !  but  they  do.  I  asked  them  to  choose  their  own  time. 
They  fixed  one  o'clock,  when  all  their  field  work  is  done  and 
they  have  had  their  mid-day  meal.  And  again,  later  in  the 
evening,  they  come  freely  and  eagerly.  But  they  like  to  hear 
the  same  teacher.  Changes  put  them  out  very  much,  for  they 
do  not  gain  confidence  all  at  once.  They  want  the  same  voice, 
and  the  same  thing  taught  over  and  over  again.  They  learn 
only  from  the  preacher,  at  first  at  any  rate  ;  not,  as  here,  from 
books  and  from  intercourse.  The  preaching  consequently  should 
be  daily,  and,  if  possible,  two  or  three  times  a  day.  Weekly 
preaching  is  no  use  ;  it  is  all  forgotten  before  the  next  service. 

But  a  missionary  must  do  other  things.  He  must  teach  the 
school,  for  instance. 

No  !  that  is  mere  waste  of  time  at  first.  When  the  people 
are  converted,  tlicn  have  schools  for  the  Christians,  that  they 
may  learn  to  read  the  word  of  God  and  teach  it  in  their  turn. 
But  preaching  with  a  view  to  conversion,  immediate  conver- 
sion, this  is  God's  commandment,  and  this  is  the  missionary's 


CONVERSION,    THE  FIRST  STEP.  43i 

work— his  prime,  principal,  paramount,  peculiar  duty.  If  you 
want  schools,  send  out  teachers  ;  but  missionaries  go  to  make 
converts. 

But  when  people  are  converted  they  need  teaching  ? 

Undoubtedly.  That  is  the  object  of  our  incessant  meetings. 
We  have  to  teach  them  to  observe  all  things  that  Christ  has 
commanded  ;  and  I  assure  you  it  takes  a  lot  of  teaching  to  do 
that  among  the  Congoese  !  We  want  to  get  the  converts  ready 
to  be  in  their  turn  teachers  and  preachers  as  quickly  as  possible. 
As  regards  the  Christians,  it  is  teach,  teach,  teach,  all  the  time. 
They  soon  learn  more  than  you  would  think.  The  Spirit  of 
God  seems  to  make  them  intelligent.  They  learn  to  read  fast ; 
they  open  little  schools  in  other  villages  to  teach  their  own 
townsfolk  to  do  the  same.  They  send  their  children  to  school 
too  fast  enough  as  soon  as  they  are  converted — though  before 
we  had  actually  to  ransom  slave  children  in  order  to  get  a 
school  at  all.  The  heathen  want  to  be  paid  for  coming  to 
school. 

Yes  !  conversion  makes  all  the  difference.  What  truths  did 
you  find  most  fitted  to  awaken  attention  and  touch  the  heart  1 

Ah  !  that  is  the  core  and  kernel  of  the  whole  thing.  I  went 
to  work  the  wrong  way  at  first.  My  first  idea  was  to  teach  the 
heathen  the  folly  of  idolatry  and  superstition,  the  nature  of 
God,  about  His  will  as  expressed  in  the  law,  about  duty  and 
morality  and  such  things,  as  well  as  about  Christ,  His  words. 
His  miracles,  and  parables,  His  death  and  resurrection.  But 
I  found  it  all  no  use.  At  the  end  of  six  years  I  had  not  a 
convert. 

Well  ? 

Then  in  bitterness  of  spirit  I  prayed  and  searched  the  Scrip- 
tures, and  noted  what  the  apostles  did,  and  began  to  follow 
their  example. 

But  surely  they  did  all  the  things  you  just  named. 

Afterwards  !  But  they  did  something  else  first.  They 
preached  Christ  and  Him  crucified  ;  they  made  people  feel 
their  guilt  in  killing  and  rejecting  Him,  in  not  resembling  Him, 
in  not  caring  for  and  coming  to  Him.  They  kept  to  the  one 
point,  and   Christ   Himself  bade  them  do  so;     They  were  to 


432  EVIDENCES   OF   THE  NEW  CREATION. 


proclaim  repentance  and  remission  of  sins  through  Him  I  Not 
a  hundred  things.     One  thing— Christ  and  Him  crucified. 

Yes,  and  you  were  trying  to  lead  up  to  that,  to  prepare  the 
people  to  appreciate  the  gospel. 

Ay  !  But  when  I  gave  up  all  leading  to  it,  and  preached  thai, 
day  by  day  and  week  by  week,  then  I  speedily  saw  a  glorious 
change  !  Then  I  had  proof  that  Paul  was  right,  when  he  said 
that  it  is  the  gospel  itself  that  is  the  power  of  God  to  salvation. 
I  don't  go  into  the  philosophy  of  the  thing,  but  I  saw  the  facts  ; 
and  I  think  facts  are  more  convincing  than  philosophy.  When 
once  I  took  this  ground,  and  charged  the  people  with  sin  for 
not  believing  in  Christ,  and  urged  that  He  was  the  only  Saviour, 
and  ready  to  save  them  then  and  there,  then  I  felt  clothed 
with  power,  and  that  it  was  the  Spirit  of  dod  who  spoke  through 
me. 

And  what  were  the  results  .-' 

Heart-cheering  !  Marvellous  !  The  stolid,  stupid  people 
waked  up.  I  saw  looks  and  whispers,  and  nudges  between 
neighbours,  astonishment,  eager  interest,  and  soon  conviction 
and  shame,  tears  of  penitence ;  restless  desire  to  hear,  more 
shame,  alarm,  and  very  soon  I  was  assailed  on  all  sides  with 
the  question,  ''  What  must  I  do  to  be  saved  ? "  I  was  alone 
most  of  the  time,  and  positively  I  had  no  time,  no,  not  so  much 
as  to  eat  some  days.  The  whole  place  and  the  country-side 
was  in  a  stir.  I  had  to  neglect  all  else  ;  I  was  preaching,  and 
dealing  with  inquirers  all  day  long.  And  soon  the  converts 
were  numbered  by  hundreds. 

What  proof  had  you  they  were  real  converts,  that  the  mo\'c- 
ment  was  not  one  of  mere  e.xcitement  ? 

Every  proof  I  could  desire,  or  that  you  would  desire  here. 
The  people  loved  Christ  and  obeyed  Him.  They  began  to 
love  their  Bibles,  or  rather  such  portions  of  Scripture  as  they 
had.  They  cared  for  nothing  compared  to  worship  and  prayer. 
They  began  to  bear  witness  for  Christ  among  their  people. 
They  cheerfully  endured  persecution,  and  risked  their  lives  for 
the  sake  of  their  new  faith.  The  thieves — and  they  are  all 
thieves  to  begin  with — became  honest  ;  the  liars — and  lying  was 
customar)- — became  truthful  ;  the  women  became  modest,  and 


THE   CLOTHES   QUESTION.  433 

wanted  dresses  directly  they  were  converted.  I  remember  one 
who,  as  soon  as  she  had  received  Christ  and  was  rejoicing  in 
Him,  said  to  the  sister  who  had  been  evangehzing  her,  "  But 
now  I  want  some  clothes  ;  I  don't  like  having  my  skin  outside  ! " 

Poor  dear  woman  !  But  do  the  Christians  then  dress  like 
we  do  ? 

Oh,  no  !  we  should  be  very  sorry  to  urge  that.  I  greatly 
object  to  any  attempt  to  Europeanise  Africans.  Africans  they 
are,  and  Africans  they  must  continue  in  all  their  habits  and 
customs.  But  the  dress  of  the  heathen  is  not  sufficient  either 
for  decency  or  comfort,  and  the  Christians,  poor  as  they  are, 
invariably  manage  to  cover  themselves.  The  husbands  do  all 
the  sewing  in  Congo,  and  Christian  husbands  soon  make  their 
wives  a  dress,  or  get  them  a  cloth.  The  women  like  dresses ; 
that  is,  garments  made  like  a  nightgown  with  a  good  deep  yoke 
for  the  neck  and  a  band,  and  coming  down  to  the  ankles. 
When  we  have  such,  we  give  them,  but  we  get  very  few  !  My 
wife  is  very  anxious  to  take  back  a  good  stock.  They  should 
be  made  of  strong  stuff  like  dusters,  blue  checked  cloth  which 
we  call  "  domestics  "  and  use  for  trade. 

Do  they  like  that  better  than  dark  prints  of  various  colours? 

Well,  at  present  the  women  have  not  seen  those,  and,  like  ladies 
here,  they  wish  to  be  in  the  fashion,  not  peculiar.  They  don't 
like  to  be  looked  at.  If  everybody  wore  print  they  would  like 
it.  If  you  can  get  us  a  number  of  dresses  made,  all  alike,  it 
would  not  much  matter  what  sort  of  calico  was  used.  Only 
as  the  women  sit  at  times  on  the  ground,  light  or  white  dresses 
would  soil  quickly. 

What  do  the  men  wear  ? 

Generally  a  cloth  round  the  legs  and  waist,  and  a  loose  jacket 
or  smockfrock,  something  like  a  shirt,  outside.  We  often  sell 
them  shirts  for  the  purpose.  I  hate  to  see  an  African  in 
trousers  !  They  suit  us,  but  they  spoil  them  !  And  they  never 
keep  them  in  good  order. 

Do  they  feel  the  heat  as  you  do  ? 

Yes,  so  much  so  that  when  carrying — toiling  in  the  sun  up  steep 
hills  with  loads  on  their  heads — they  perspire  most  copiously. 
Then  of  course  they   divest  themselves  of  their  garments,  as 

C.  A.  38 


434 


"DIFFERENCE  IS  ONLY  SKIN  DEEP." 


CAKRYINC. 


do  the  women  while  they  work  in  the  fields.  But  the  mornings 
and  evenings  are  chilly,  and  garments  are  a  comfort.  If  the 
thermometer  does  not  stand  above  70°  the  people  shiver  and 
say,  "  How  cold  it  is  !  " 

Those  dear  converts  of  whom  you  speak, — can  you  love  them 
and  feel  to  them  as  you  would  to  English  fellow  Christians  ? 

Oh  !  precisely.  T/iey  are  exactly  like  us  inside;  the  dif- 
ference is  only  skin  deep  !  They  are  intensely  sincere.  What 
is  in  comes  out  !  There  are  no  restraints  of  any  kind — no 
delicacy  or  consideration  or  deference  to  public  opinion  or  con- 
ventionalities, of  course.     A  man  in  the   audience,  if  he  does 


''WHITE  PEOPLE  ACTUALLY  LOVE  EACH  OTHER  I  "  435 

not  agree  with  my  conclusion,  or  follow  my  explanation,  will 
exclaim,  "Oh,  I  don't  think  so,"  or,  "  I  don't  see  that  at  all"  ; 
or  if  one  is  teaching  any  special  duty,  he  will  object,  "  Then 
why  did  you  do  so  and  so?"  But  that  is  a  matter  of  custom  ; 
their  hearts  are  just  like  ours. 

But  are  they  affectionate,  kind,  grateful,  faithful  to  those  they 
love,  like  Europeans  ? 

That  is  just  what  they  ask  about  white  men  !  My  dear  wife 
was  very  ill  one  night  ;  I  was  up  with  her  and  anxious,  and  I 
suppose  I  looked  pale  next  day.  Lydia,  a  woman  who  kindly 
came  in  to  help,  observed  it,  and  I  overheard  her  saying  to  a 
neighbour,  "  What  do  you  think  .-'  These  white  people  actually 
love  each  other  like  we  do .'  She  is  ill,  and  he  looks  pale."'  It 
was  evidently  a  new  discovery  to  her  that  white  folks  had 
human  feelings  !  I  have  come  to  the  conclusion  that  there  is 
little  difference  in  reality.  There  is  a  mutual  want  of  apprecia- 
tion at  first. 

Well,  but  how  treacherous  and  unkind  they  often  are  to 
white  people,  and  how  awfully  cruel  to  each  other  at  times, 
killing  the  innocent,  burning  and  drowning,  and  selling  into 
slavery  ! 

True.  But  all  that  is  easily  accounted  for.  As  to  the  mission- 
aries, remember  that  they  loteiu  ■xuhite  men  before  they  kneiu  mis- 
sionaries !  It  is  not  long  since  slavery  was  done  away.  Traders 
and  officers  are  not  always  so  kind  as  they  should  be.  Any 
way,  the  African  idea  of  a  white  man  is  that  he  is  a  devil;  and 
it  takes  a  good  deal  of  intimate  association  with  one  who  obeys 
the  law  of  love,  and  treats  him  as  a  brother  and  an  equal,  before 
he  begins  to  feel  that  a  white  man  ca)i  be  a  human  brother  I 
Then  their  cruelty  to  each  other  is  the  fruit  of  love,  blinded  and 
maddened  by  superstition.  It  is  love  to  each  other  that  makes 
them  seek  out  and  kill  those  they  believe  to  be  witches  ! 
Nothing  else.  I  once  thought  that  \\\&y  could  \\o\.  in  their  hearts 
believe  the  nonsense  of  the  medicine-men,  or  that  the  accused 
-persons  were  really  guilty  of  death.  But  I  assure  you  they 
actually  do,  and  it  is  equally  useless  to  ridicule  them  and  to 
blame  them.  I  once  said  to  Lutete,  our  first  convert,  a  former 
nganga,  "Surely  you  did  not  really  believe  all  that?"     "I  did 


436  BARNABA   AND   LYDIA. 

indeed,"  he  replied,  "  thoroughly.  The  devil  deceived  me  as 
much  as  that  !  "  \i  he  believed  it,  how  much  more  the  common 
people  !  Their  cruelty  is  indeed  base  and  cowardly,  but  it  is 
born  of  superstition,  and  superstition  is  a  terrible  tyrant. 

The  Christian  of  course  yives  up  all  that  superstition  after 
conversion  ? 

Entirely.     His   superstitions  never  once    seemed  to  trouble 
Lutete  after  he  trusted  in  Christ.     Our  house  had  a  ceiling  of 
mats,  forming  a  kind  of  loft — of  which  no  use  was  made — under 
the  roof.     The  natives  however  believed  that  in  that  loft  we 
kept  the  spirits  of  all  that  died  of  the  strange  sad  "sleeping 
sickness,"  which  has  carried  offlarge  numbers  in  our  neighbour- 
hood lately,  including  twenty  of  our  Church  members.     It  was 
in  vain  we  tried  to  show  them  the  folly  of  the  notion,  and  that 
there  was  nothing   there.     "  No,  not   in   the  day  time,  but  at 
flight — ah  !  "    After  Lutete's  conversion  he  came  to  live  near  us, 
because  his  life  was  in  danger  in  his  own  place.     But  his  wife 
would  not  come  ;  she  was  afraid  of  these  spirits,  out  of  which  it 
was  alleged  we  got  some  profit.     Lutete  was  accused  of  being 
a  traitor  to  his  people,  for  the  sake  of  sharing  in  these  fabulous 
"profits"  !    After  a  while  he  tried  to  persuade  his  wife  to  come 
and  live  with  him  again.     "  I've  been  there  for  weeks,  and  I've 
seen  no  spirits.     Come  !     And  I   promise  you  that,  if  you  see 
them,  we  will  move  away."     She  came,  heard  the  gospel  daily, 
and  the  Lord  soon  opened  her  heart  and  took  away  all  her 
fears.     We  baptized  her  before  long  under  the  name  of  Lydia. 
Her  husband  was  called  Barnabas,  because  as  my  first  Chris- 
tian brother  among  the  natives  he  was  such  a  comfort  to  me,  a 
real  son  of  consolation  !     The  people  cannot  pronounce  a  ter- 
minal s,  so  they  call  him  Barnaba. 

Why  do  you  change  their  names  on  baptism  in  that  way.' 
They  wish  it  themselves.  They  feel  they  are  new  creatures, 
entering  on  a  new  life,  and  they  want  a  new  name.  Besides 
many  of  their  names  have  bad  meanings— associated  with  evil 
heathen  customs.  They  give  us  fresh  names  too,  for  very  often 
they  can't  pronounce  our  English  ones.  Mine— Richards  — is 
a  regular  puzzle  to  them.  Both  the  initial  R  and  the  final  s 
are  beyond  them.     They  call  me  Uguankasi  or  uncle,  and  my 


CHURCH   GOVERNMENT.  437 

wife  Mundele  N ksntic  (white  woman),  or  simply  "Mama." 
Lydia  was  a  thoroughly  intelligent  woman,  and  quite  under- 
stood the  difference  between  flesh  and  spirit,  faith  and  works, 
and  so  on.  She  was  a  great  help  among  the  women  inquirers 
when  my  wife  was  in  England. 

Do  you  ever  have  occasion  to  excommunicate  any  of  your 
Church  members  ? 

Yes,  we  have  done  so  four  or  five  times.  I  do  not  initiate 
such  action  myself.  I  leave  all  questions  of  receiving  and  reject- 
ing to  the  Church,  because  I  don't  want  to  make  them  like 
children  depending  on  me.  I  am  intensely  anxious  to  develop 
them  as  rapidly  as  possible  into  a  self-governing  and  self- 
extending  Church.  They  cannot  become  this  till  they  have  the 
Scriptures,  and  can  read  them.  That  is  why  we  are  pressing 
on  as  much  as  possible  with  translations.  But  I  teach  them  to 
refer  everything  to  Scripture,  and  decide  every  case  according 
to  its  precepts.  They  perfectly  understand  that  all  wicked 
persons  must  be  put  away  from  among  them,  and  they  are 
inclined  to  be  rather  severe.     But  it  is  a  good  fault  at  first. 

What  sort  of  cases  do  you  put  away  ? 

One  man  was  put  out  for  marrying  a  second  wife,  while  his 
first  was  alive.  The  other  cases  were  for  immorality.  This 
sin  is  very  common  on  the  Congo,  and  Christians  sometimes 
fall  into  it.  They  will  come  spontaneously  and  with  tears  and 
shame  confess  their  sin.  But  the  Church  is  very  firm,  and  puts 
them  away,  and  keeps  them  away  a  long  time.  They  sometimes 
need  to  be  urged  to  accept  evident  contrition  and  restore  the 
offender.     We  have  had  three  or  four  such  cases. 

How  do  you  manage  about  polygamy .' 

If  a  man  is  a  polygamist  when  converted  we  do  not  make 
him  put  away  any  of  his  wives.  To  do  so  in  Africa  ivould  be 
very  wro/ig.  But  we  don't  allow  a  Christian  to  marry  more  than 
one  of  course.  They  see  the  benefits  of  having  only  one  wife, 
and  say,  "Ah  !  it  is  the  devil  misleads  our  people  about  this." 
They  see  that  we  are  far  better  off  with  one  wife  than  they  are 
with  several.  One  day  an  unhappy  fellow  who  had  three  had 
somehow  offended  them  all.  When  he  went  to  the  first  house 
— for  a  husband  builds  a  separate  house  for  each  wife — the  door 


438  "SEE,    THOSE    TIVO  ARE   ONE. 


was  rudely  shut  in  his  face.  He  tried  the  second,  only  to  be 
greeted  \\  ith  "  Go  away,  I  don't  want  you  I "  Nor  was  the  third 
any  more  willing  to  admit  him.  So  he  bewailed  himself  to  me 
and  said,  "  I  have  three  wives,  and  yet  none  of  them  will  let  me 
in  !  '  They  see  our  ways,  and  say  :  "  When  you  go  home,  your 
wife  get  you  cup  of  tea,  make  you  lie  down  if  tired,  nurse  you  if 
sick  ;  kind  !  good  !  Why  does  she  respect  you  and  be  so  kind 
to  you?  We  wish  our  wives  were  like  that."  Then  I  explain 
that  they  must  first  respect  and  love  their  wives  and  treat  them 
as  I  do  mine.  I  may  say  that  the  Christians  do  so.  One  of  the 
first  things  I  observed  when  Lutete  was  converted  was  that 
he  was  helping  his  wife  in  the  field  !  The  people  were  much 
struck  when  they  first  saw  us  walking  arm  in  arm.  "  See  1 ''  I 
overheard  them  saying,  "  see  !  those  two  are  one  I" 

Are  they  kind  to  their  children  ? 

The  mothers  are  very  much  so,  and  the  fathers  too,  if  they 
are  free  men,  and  the  children  are  their  own.  But  so  often  the 
father  is  a  slave.  Then  the  children  belong  to  his  master,  and 
he  does  not  care  much  about  them.  But  the  mothers  are  very 
kind,  as  a  rule.  In  order  to  keep  the  public  meetings  quieter 
by  dispensing  with  the  babies  I  once  proposed  a  creche,  in 
which  one  or  two  women  might  mind  all  the  infants.  But  the 
idea  was  laughed  to  scorn.  What !  leave  their  babies  to  other 
-beople  ?     Impossible! 

V>o  the  Christians  take  any  part  in  public  worship.'' 

Oh,  freely  !  They  pray  in  public — men  and  women,  using 
at  times  of  course  curious  expressions.  I  remember  one  man 
when  pleading  earnestly  for  holiness  said,  "  Lord,  make  our 
hearts  pure,  make  them  clean  :  as  clean  as  a  white  man's 
plate!"'  I  could  not  but  smile  ;  but  our  washing  up  dishes,  and 
keeping  them  bright  and  clean  is  strange  to  them,  and  had 
struck  this  man.  As  to  preaching,  the  converts  are  some  of 
them  really  gifted,  and  speak  with  great  power. 

Mr.  Ingham  wrote  to  me  lately  of  a  boy  who  has  been  con- 
verted since  I  left,  who  can  hold  in  rapt  attention  an  audience 
of  hundreds.  Yet  Congo  folk  are  like  people  here  :  they  won't 
stay  in  a  nieeting  unless  they  are  interested. 

Was  that  lad  one  you  knew  ? 


CONGO  MOTHERS. 


439 


Ay  !  and  one  I  had  prayed  for,  and  striven  with,  and  taught, 
and  longed  for  many  a  year  !  A  good,  bright  boy,  but  an 
inveterate  thief.  We  could  not  trust  him  out  of  our  sight.  He 
seemed  to  steal  for  the  sake  of  stealing,  even  when  he  could 
make  no  use  of  the  thing  stolen  Now  all  is  changed.  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Ingham  are  pretty  slow  to  believe  in  the  natives  ;  but 
they  write  that  this  lad  is  so  good,  so  earnest,  and  so  gifted, 
that  he  ought  to  be  sent  to  America  for  a  good  education  at 
one  of  the  Southern  colleges.     I  hope  he  may  be. 

Then  you  believe  in  educating  Congo  lads  in  Europe  and 
America  ? 

No,  not  as  a  rule.  I  think  it  generally  spoils  them,  and 
makes  them  very  troublesome.  But  there  are  cases  of  an 
exceptional  character.  We  must  have  some  high-class  native 
teachers  and  preachers  by-and-by,  to  be  heads  of  native 
colleges,  and  so  on.  I  would  prepare  a  few  such  lads  who  can 
stand  it  without  getting  spoiled.  Tommy  is  such  a  nice  brighc 
fellow,  that  I  never  could  help  loving  him,  even  when  he  was 
always  giving  me  trouble  by  his  dishonesty.  He  would  be 
utterly  ashamed  when  convicted  or  caught,  but  seemed  as  if  he 
could   not   help   it.      Now 


grace  has  altered  him  ;  he 
is  honest  and  trustworthy, 
and  so  gifted,  that  he 
quite  eclipses  Lukoke  of 
Lukanga. 

Have  you  many  such 
preachers  '^ 

Not    so    good  ;    laut  ^\c 


440  FLOGGING  AS  A    PUNISHMENT. 


have  many.  Indeed,  all  the  men  feel  it  their  duty  to  testify 
for  Christ,  and  some  of  the  women.  And  they  do  it  to  white 
men  as  well  as  black  sometimes  ;  for  they  always  ask  about 
any  one  they  meet,  "  Is  he  a  child  of  God.^"  If  we  cannot  say 
yes,  they  conclude  at  once  that  he  is  a  child  of  the  devil  ;  for 
they  have  no  conception  of  a  neutral  condition^  and  I  am  not 
sure  but  they  are  right  in  that  I  They  perfectly  distinguish  be- 
tween the  two  classes,  and  that  the  whites  differ  just  as  mucli 
as  they  do  among  themselves.  One  of  our  Christians  began 
evangelizing  a  young  officer  once.  This  man  wrote  and  asked 
me:  "What  has  come  over  your  Banza  Manteka  men?  I  can't 
understand  what  has  changed  them  so  wonderfully.  Do  tell 
me."     Ah  !  the  grace  of  God  is  a  wonderful  power  ! 

What  do  you  think  about  flogging  as  a  punishment? 

I  altogether  and  unhesitatingly  object  to  it,  even  for  boys.  I 
consider  it  quite  as  ungodly  to  beat  an  African  as  an  English- 
man. What  right  have  we  — missionaries,  traders,  or  travellers 
— to  beat  men  ?  None  whatever.  I  have  seen  horrid,  blood- 
curdling cruelties  of  this  kind  perpetrated  on  helpless  natives, 
on  women,  ay,  and  on  young  women  too,  by  traders.  But  it 
is  wicked,  unprincipled,  and  unjust !  We  have  no  more  right 
to  commit  a  personal  assault  on  a  naked  black  man  who  is 
willing  to  work  for  us,  than  on  a  white  labourer  employed  here. 
It  is  a  remnant  of  slavery,  and  a  detestable  crime.  There  is  no 
need  for  it,  only  selfishness  and  passion  in  possession  of  un- 
bridled power  lead  to  it.  Other  punishments  might  be  annexed 
to  crime.  The  natives  themselves  never  thrash  anybody.  They 
are  very  angry  if  they  are  struck,  and  feel  it  to  be  a  gross  insult. 
I  made  it  a  principle  never  under  any  provocation  to  strike  man 
or  boy.  I  believe  that  Africans  should  be  treated  precisely  like 
Europeans;  kindly,  respectfully,  and  in  a  brotherly,  manly  way. 
Patronage  they  hate  !  We  may  think  ourselves  superior,  but 
they  do  not  see  it.  They  often  think  white  men  uncommonly 
poor  creatures.  We  can't  do  many  things  they  can  do,  and 
they  don't  understand  the  assumption  of  Europeans.  A  white 
man  who  strikes  a  native  loses  influence  with  them  at  once, 
and  can  never  do  them  any  good.  They  must  be  won  by 
love,  just   like  Englishmen.      We   must  forget   that   they   are 


JOSEPH    CLARKE,    OF    PALABALA, 
AND   TWO   CHRISTIAN    LADS. 


black,  it  makes  no  real  difference.  They  are  men.  Even  with 
children,  we  punish  some  other  way — never  by  striking. 

But  what  v,-ould  you  do  with  a  naughty  boy  ? 

Well,  I  had  trouble  with  one  who  had  been  in  England.  He 
was  cross  and  sulky,  and  wanted  toilet  soap,  if  you  please,  and 
better  food,  and  I  caught  him  domineering  over  other  boys, 
and  even  beating  them  and  making  them  cr)'.  I  took  him  into 
my  room,  reminded  him  he  was  only  a  slave  to  the  king,  and 
of  all  I  had  done  for  him  and  taught  him,  upbraided  him  for 
ingratitude,  and  told  him  decidedly  I  would  have  no  nonsense. 
"  If  I  see  any  more  such  conduct,  I  take  off  your  clothes  and 
send  you  away  back  to  the  town  to  be  a  slave  again."     The  boy 

441 


442  NATIVE  QUICKNESS  IN  LEARNING. 


was  quite  broken  down,  asliamed,  and  grieved,  and  I  had  no 
more  trouble  with  him.  After  the  revival  I  got  the  king,  who 
set  a  high  price  on  the  lad,  to  set  him  free.  He  is  married  now, 
a  good  Christian  man. 

Arc  the  children  in  the  schools  fairly  quick  in  learning .' 

Not  the  little  ones.  But  after  five  or  six  years  old  I  should 
say  they  are  remarkably  so.  N'snuda,  a  girl  of  nine  or  ten, 
learned  to  read  well  in  about  eight  months  ;  so  did  Wamba 
and  N'kimba,  younger  boys,  and  to  do  some  arithmetic  also. 
One  week  N'snuda  learned  by  heart  perfectly  the  first,  third, 
and  fourth  of  John.  David,  a  young  fellow  of  twenty,  learned 
to  read  in  public  right  well.  He  preached,  too,  so  well  that  an 
American  lady  who  heard  him  said,  "  If  I  had  known  you  had 
sucli  evangelists  as  that,  I  do  not  think  I  should  have  come  to 
Africa  ! '' 

And  you  hope  to  be  able  to  leave  the  Church  at  Banza 
Manteka  some  day,  commending  its  native  elders  to  Ciod  and 
to  the  word  of  His  grace  ? 

1  do  indeed  ;  as  soon  as  they  shall  have  the  word  of  His 
grace,  or  the  greater  part  of  it.  But  as  yet  they  have  not  this 
by  any  means.  We  have  the  gospels,  and  parts  of  Romans  and 
Genesis  and  other  books ;  but  there  is  very  much  yet  to  be  done 
in  translation.  The  language  is  a  most  rich  and  complicated 
one.  Very  few  missionaries  understand  \\.  thoroughly  yet.  The 
people  need  much  instruction  before  they  will  be  able  to  stand 
alone.  But  really  if  they  had  the  Bible  I  should  scarcely  fear 
to  leave  them  even  now !  The  Lord  would  lead  them  on  ! 
They  have  set  apart  some  of  their  number  as  evangelists, 
and  they  strongly  realize  their  joyful  duty  to  spread  the  glad 
tidings. 

That  sleeping  sickness  seems  sadly  prevalent  ?  Can  it  not 
be  cured .'' 

No  ;  patients  invariably  die.  The  nature  of  the  complaint 
is  not  well  understood.  I  think  it  is  a  brain  disease,  from  a 
strange  look  in  the  eyes,  which  I  have  always  noticed  as  pre- 
ceding it.  The  victim  becomes  stupid  after  a  time,  and  loses 
memory  and  power  of  motion.  Many  die  too  from  small- 
pox. But  the  State  Government  has  done  good  by  introducing 
vaccine,  and  forbidding  sick  carriers  to  enter  the  towns.  The 
people  have  learned  to  vaccinate  themselves,  and  villages  have 
been  saved  from  attack  by  this.  But  we  have  lost  many 
members  from  both  diseases.  Not  unfrequently  when  a  name 
is  mentioned  in  calling  over  the  roll  at  a  Church  meeting  the 
answer  comes,  ""  Balufcidi" — gone  up  I 


CHAPTER    III. 
PROGRESS   UNDER   THE  A.B.M.U.    1885-1890. 

Space  obliges  us  very  briefly  to  epitomise  the  occurrences 
of  the  last  few  years  of  the  mission. 

In  the  summer  of  1885  Mr.  Billington  took,  in  the  Henry 
Reed,  a  voyage  on  the  Upper  Congo  to  visit  Messrs. 
Pettersen  and  Eddie  at  the  Equator  Station.  He  wrote 
us  many  particulars  of  the  state  of  things  on  the  upper 
river,  then  comparatively  little  visited.  Some  most  painful 
sights  they  saw,  such  as  the  one  here  described. 

Soon  after  our  arrival  at  Bolobo  we  heard  tremendous  drummino' 
and  shouting,  and  on  inquiiy  found  that  some  one  had  died.  We 
went  into  the  towns,  and  saw  a  most  disgusting,  pitiful,  and  heart- 
sickening  sight.  After  passing  tlirough  several  villages,  we  came  to  an 
open  space,  where  a  great  company  of  natives  had  assembled.  First  to 
attract  our  attention  was  a  large  circle  of  men,  who  had  been  drinking 
palm-wine  till  they  were  nearly  drunk,  and  were  then  joining  in  a  kind 
of  savage  dance,  accompanied  by  wild  singing  and  shouting.  A  little 
farther  on  we  saw  a  still  larger  circle  of  women,  who  were  smoking 
pipes  about  two  feet  in  length,  and  at  the  same  time  laughing,  dancing, 
and  shouting  in  a  most  hideous  fashion. 

A  little  to  the  left  of  them,  in  the  middle  of  a  native  hut  whose 
walls  had  been  removed,  stood  the  coffin,  containing  the  body  of  the 
departed,  and  it  was  surrounded  by  women  mourners,  some  wives  and 
some  friends  of  the  dead ;  the  whole  formed  such  a  sight  that  I  shall 
never  forget,  and  even  an  ungodly  man  who  was  with  us  said,  "  Let's 
go  ;  this  makes  me  feel  quite  ill." 

We  noticed  that  two  of  the  women  and  one  man  of  tlie  party  that 
surrounded  the  coftin  had  been  stripped  of  their  usually  scanty  clothing, 

445 


446  '' INHUMAN,   MURDEROUS  BUSINESS r 

and  a  few  blades  of  green  grass  given  as  a  substitute  ;  we  saw  also  that 
their  hands  were  made  fast  by  native  rope.  Oh,  what  a  look  they  gave 
us  as  we  approached!  In  answer  to  a  question  we  were  told,  "  These 
three  are  ready  to  be  killed  to  celebrate  the  death  of  this  chief."  Two 
of  them  were  his  wives,  and  one  of  them  was  a  slave.  It  seems  that 
sometimes  they  are  beheaded  by  one  blow  of  a  specially  shaped  and 
jirepared  knife,  and  the  body  then  thrown  into  the  river ;  sometimes 
they  are  suspended  to  the  roof  of  a  native  hut,  and  so  strangled,  and 
the  bodies  buried  with  that  of  their  chief.  The  skulls  of  the  beheaded 
are  placeil  ou  the  roofs  of  houses  to  adorn  or  to  protect.  I  have  seen 
many  of  these  skulls  in  various  towns  I  have  visited.  "Cannot  you 
stop  this  inhuman,  murderous  business  ?  "  we  said  to  the  chief  of  the 
state  station.  "No,"  he  replied;  "I  am  not  strong  enough  yet." 
He  added,  "This  is  no  uncommon  thing;  it  is  often  happening  in  this 
district." 

The  daily  cutting  ot  wood  for  the  steamer  is  a 
tiresome  but  essential  operation  on  all  these  Upper 
Congo  voyages.  The  Henry  Reed  burns  two  hundred- 
weight for  every  hour  of  steaming.  Dead  wood  is 
preferred,  or  small  trees  eighteen  inches  or  two  feet 
in  diameter.  They  are  felled  by  crosscut  saws,  cut 
into  short  lengths,  rolled  to  the  beach,  split  up,  and 
loaded.  The  presence  of  a  white  man  greatly  expe- 
dites this  operation  !  The  travellers  passed  the  mouth 
of  the  Mobangi,  which  looks  like  another  Congo, 
and  the  Irebu  towns  (from  which  ^Messrs.  Pettersen 
and  Banks  were  stoned  as  they  passed  up  the  river 
in  small  boats).  They  reached  the  equator,  and  four 
miles  north  of  it  came  to  the  station  at  W'angata. 
The  natives  were  not  then  as  friendly  as  they  are  now. 

Mr.  Billington  wrote  of  them  as  treacherous,  always 
ready  to  fight,  and  going  fully  armed.  But  he  found 
already  a  little  mission  growing  up  in  their  midst. 
He  wrote 


MR.   BILLINGTO.YS  LETTER. 


447 


"  Our  brethren,  Pettersen  and  Eddie,  have  worked  hard,  and  done 
well  here  ;  they  have  built  two  good  clay  dwelling-houses  and  several 
out-houses,  have  made  a  garden,  have  partly  made  and  erected  a  cir- 
cular saw,    are   on   gooil 


terms  with  the  people, 
have  a  number  of  boys 
in  the  school,  and  have 
made  some  progress  in 
the  language. 

"The  country,  al- 
though lowland,  has  up 
to  tlie  present  proved 
very  healthy ;  almost 
everything  can  be  grown 
there,  and  grown  all  the 
year  round ;  it  is  possible 
always  to  have  fresh 
vegetables,  and  this  fact 
alone  will  greatly  help  in 
the  preservation  of  good 
health.  The  site  of  this 
station  is  indeed  admir- 
able, a  central  position, 
about  four  miles  north  of 
the  equator. 

"The  villages  below 
it  form  a  continuous  line 
by  the  water  for  about  six 
miles.  A  few  minutes 
above  it  are  the  '  Wan- 
gata '  towns,  and  these 
join  other  and  more  im- 
portant towns,  at  the 
mouth  of  the  '  Umki ' 
River.  About  an  hour's 
steaming  up  the  Uruki 
you  come  upon  another 
district  of  well-inhabited 
villages  ;  these  could  be 
all  easily  reached  with 
the  use  of  a  small  rowing- 
boat,  and  the  missionary 
could  thus  preach  to 
thousands  of  people, 
who  have  never  heard 
the  gospel." 


A   MEDICINE   MAN. 


448  DR.  SIMS'    VISIT   TO   AMERICA. 

Ill  the  following  year  Mr.  Pettersen  had  to  return 
to  England,  and  leave  Mr.  Eddie  alone  for  a  time 
at  this  remote  spot.  Dr.  Sims  also  came  home  on 
furlough  in  1886,  and  soon  after  his  arrival  had  in 
London  a  dangerous  attack  of  the  African  haematuric 
fever.  His  life  was  in  danger  for  some  days,  and 
had  he  been  on  the  Congo  he  would  scarcely  have 
recovered.  He  had  apparently  brought  the  infection 
home  with  him.  But  skilled  advice  and  good  nursing 
helped  him  to  rally,  and  later  on  he  went  over  to 
America.  He  was  the  first  missionary  to  visit  the 
new  headquarters  of  the  mission  in  Boston,  and  his  tour 
among  the  Churches  in  the  United  States  was  timely 
and  useful.  He  found  Dr.  Murdock,  the  esteemed 
and  beloved  secretary  of  the  A.B.M.U.,  laid  aside  by 
illness  from  active  duties  ;  but  Dr.  Gordon,  a  member 
of  the  committee,  received  him  with  the  greatest 
kindness,  and  visited  New  York,  Philadelphia,  and 
other  places  with  him.  There  Jiad  been  some  natural 
anxiety  and  distrust  about  the  Congo  Mission,  but  the 
testimony  of  an  eye-witness  removed  it,  and  kindled 
much  interest  in  the  newly  adopted  enterprise.  The 
vigorous  prosecution  and  enlargement  of  the  work 
was  decided  on,  at  the  annual  meeting  of  the  Union, 
held  at  Asbury  Park,  New  Jersey.  There  was  absolute 
unanimit}'  in  the  adoption  of  this  course  ;  and  after 
an  address  by  Dr.  Sims,  the  assembly  sent  its  good- 
will and  greeting  to  the  brethren  in  Africa,  amid 
waving  of  handkerchiefs,  prayers,  and  tears, — a  touch- 
ing and  beautiful  sight. 

The  adoption  of  a  child   that  has  never  been  seen 


THE  ASRURY  PARK  CONFERENCE.  449 

is  rather  an  awkward  and  cold  proceeding.  There 
had  perhaps  been  a  somewhat  analogous  feeling 
between  the  Churches  in  America  and  the  mission- 
aries in  Africa  up  to  this  time,  but  thenceforward 
love  and  confidence  were  established.  The  anniver- 
sary was  felt  to  be  one  of  the  best  in  the  history  of 
the  society.  A  heavy  debt  had  been  feared,  and 
indeed  existed  right  up  to  the  week  of  the  meeting. 
But  the  Lord  moved  His  people  to  clear  off  the 
whole  sum,  and,  instead  of  a  deficiency,  the  society 
had  a  balance  in  its  favour,  and  were  thus  encouraged 
to  press  forward  the  new  undertaking. 

We   quote  the  following  from   the   report   of  the 
anniversary. 

Dr.  Gordon  of  Boston  said  :  Is  there  any  one  amongst  us  who  is  dis- 
posed to  speak  of  a  mission  to  Africa  as  foolhardy  ?  Bear  in  mind  the 
fact  that  during  the  year  among  our  missionaries  on  tliat  field  110  one  has 
died.  Contrast  this  with  what  others  have  experienced  !  By  a  striking 
providence  this  mission  has  been  put  into  our  hands,  and  since  being 
received  by  us  has  been  marvellously  exempt  from  disaster  and  death. 
There  is  no  danger  of  collision  with  the  missions  of  the  English  Baptists. 
The  message  which  our  English  brethren  send  to  us  is,  that  while  we 
march  up  one  bank  of  the  Congo,  they  will  march  up  the  other,  and  to- 
gether we  will  take  the  country.  As  to  Baptist  orthodoxy,  do  you  know 
why  this  mission  was  given  to  us?  Because  the  brethren  engaged  in  it 
wished  to  be  associated  with  a  body  of  Christians  who  believe  in  main- 
taining every  word  and  ordinance  of  God  ;  because,  also,  it  was  the 
wish  of  those  who  gave  this  mission  to  us,  that  it  should  be  in  the  hands 
of  those  who  believe  and  practise  total  abstinence.  It  has  been  said 
that  the  executive  committee  is  slow.  Do  you  push  us,  said  Dr. 
Gordon,  and  we  will  push  the  work  on  the  Congo. 

Dr.  Crane,  who  was  associated  with  Dr.  Murdock  in  the  commission 
to  visit  London  and  examine  there  the  question  as  to  the  wisdom  of 
accepting  this  mission,  came  next.  Dr.  Crane  gave  a  narrative  of  this 
visit,  of  the  conference  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Guinness  and  others,  with 

C.  A.  29 


4SO  2W0   UNTENABLE  PROPOSITIONS. 


a  view  to  },'ct  all  the  light  possible  upon  the  question  they  had  been 
sent  to  examine.  The  details  as  given  were  very  interesting,  showing 
withal  with  what  care  and  fidelity  the  whole  case  had  been  studied. 
Upon  the  question  whether  we  should  enter  a  field  where  the  Engli-.h 
Baptists  also  have  missions,  he  illustraleil  the  |Joint  he  wished  to  make 
l)y  supposing  that  the  fifty-five  millions  (jf  people  in  the  republic  of  the 
United  States  were  heathen,  and  that  a  missionary  society  were  engaged 
in  giving  the  gospel  to  us.  What  would  be  thought  of  the  claim,  if 
made,  that  because  this  one  society  was  thus  engaged,  there  could  bo 
no  room  for  any  other  society  to  enter  the  field  or  share  the  work? 

If  any  shall  say  that  the  people  of  the  Congo  cannot  be  reached  by 
the  gospel,  he  commits  himself  to  one  or  the  other  of  these  two  proposi- 
tions :  either  that  God  hath  )iot  made  of  one  blood  all  nations  of  men 
to  dwell  on  the  face  of  all  the  earth  ;  or  that  Christianity  is  not  the 
last  and  the  universal  religion  for  the  entire  humanity.  The  mission 
he  held  belongs  to  us,  as  Americans,  because  by  the  pluck  and  courage 
of  an  American  the  Congo  and  its  valley  were  discovered  and  explored. 
Then  as  to  the  climate,  are  we  to  go,  or  to  send  our  missionaries,  only 
where  the  climate  is  salubrious  ?  Facing  the  difficulties  and  dangers  of 
the  Congo  valley,  is  this  representative  foreign  mission  society,  for  the 
first  time,  to  forget  that  "  tiie  blood  of  the  martyrs  is  the  seed  of  the 
Church  "  ? 

Dr.  Sims,  on  his  return  from  Arnerica,  spent  a  few  months 
in  Vienna  studying  some  special  forms  of  disease,  and 
went  out  again  to  the  Congo  in  January,  18S7.  He  was 
accompanied  by  Mr.  Murphy,  from  our  Institute,  going  out 
for  the  first  time,  and  also  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ingham,  who 
were  returning. 


Much  important  fresh  exploration  was  accomphshed  in 
the  Dark  Continent  about  this  time.  Dr.  Wolff,  a  member 
of  Wissmann's  expedition,  made  a  reconnissance  of  the 
Kasai-Sankulu  River,  which  proved  to  be  a  direct  water- 
way from  Kwamouth  on  the  Upper  Congo  to  within  a  few 
days'  march  of  Nyangwe ;  that  is,  over  ten  degrees  of  longi- 
tude. This  stream,  which  forms  a  straight  line  where  the 
Congo  makes  a  vast  horse-shoe,  is  navigable  for  S20  miles, 
and  flow.s  through  a  densely  populated  country,  the  people 


MR.  CHARLES  HARVEY,  OF  LUKUNGA. 

{Sa-p.  329.) 

being  of  a  superior  type  and  industrious  character.  They 
build  large  and  regular  towns,  some  of  which  take  five 
hours  to  cross.  Their  country  seems  healthful :  cattle 
thrive,  and  produce  was  extremely  cheap,  although  Portu- 
guese half-castes  from  the  west  and  Kiswaheli  traders  from 
the  east  had  already  penetrated  il.  Tusks  of  ivory  were 
sold  for  a  few  beads  ! 

Lieut.    Kund,    of    the   German   African    Society,    made 
another  discovery  scarcely  less  important.     On  foot  and 


452  "  fVE  EAT  MEN,  OF  COURSE!'* 


with  the  help  of  a  compass  only,  accompanied  by  a  few 
Loango  men,  he  made  a  round  from  Stanley  Pool  to  the 
Kwango,  and  thence  to  the  Kasai.  Then  he  went  north, 
crossing  the  Sankulu,  till  he  struck  another  great  river, 
the  Ikatta,  of  which  he  thought  Lake  Leopold  to  be  only 
a  lacustrine  enlargement.  After  traversing  the  lake,  the 
Ikatta  flows  on  under  the  name  of  the  Mfini,  to  join  the 
Kasai  and  Congo.  Thus  a  fourth  great  navigable  water-way 
crosses  the  continent  from  east  to  west,  and  every  part  of 
the  interior  is  easily  accessible  by  steamer.  Kund  met 
with  kind  and  friendly  tribes  such  as  the  Ayacca ;  but  with 
others  who  were  fierce,  warlike,  and  cannibals,  as  they  did 
not  hesitate  to  admit.  "Yes,"  they  said,  "we  eat  men  of 
course,  when  tve  have  them  to  eat ;  but,  alas!  we  get  but 
few  ! "  Others  asked,  "  Why  do  you  not  give  us  some  of 
your  carriers  to  eat  ?  You  cannot  be  friendly.  The  Ayacca 
always  bring  us  some  to  eat."  Vast  herds  of  game  were 
seen  everywhere ;  but  the  people  have  no  guns,  though 
plenty  of  iron. 

Between  the  Sankulu  and  Ikatta  Kund  came  upon 
a  specially  interesting  people.  Who  will  have  the  honour 
of  first  carrying  them  the  gospel  ?  Their  physique  was 
striking  :  not  a  stupid  face  was  to  be  seen  anywhere.  The 
men  had  noble  heads,  "like  learned  people  or  members 
of  Parliament " — heads  such  as  one  sees  only  in  classes 
who  have  devoted  their  lives  to  mental  work.  There  was 
a  town  every  two  or  three  hours  (on  foot) ;  food  and  animals 
plenty,  and  great  quantities  of  ivory.  These  people — the 
Basange — are  not  cannibals,  and  evidently  of  much  higher 
capacity  than  their  western  neighbours. 

In  1887  the  iron  church  given  by  Dr.  Gordon's  congre- 
gation in  Boston  to  their  coloured  brethren  of  Banza 
Manteka  was  sent  out.     It  made  237  packages,  weighing 


PROGRESS  nv  1883. 


453 


between  five  and  six  tons.  It  was  nicely  planned,  with  a 
deep  .verandah  round  it  to  keep  it  cool,  and  vestries, 
which  serve  for  consulting  room  and  dispensary,  and  for  the 
medical  mission.  The  natives  carried  up  the  loads  free 
of  charge,  thus  contributing  about  ^200  in  sheer  physical 
strength.     So  great  was  the  desire  to  have  a  share  in  the 


CURIOUS  NATIVE   HEAD-DRESS  OF  OWN    HAIR. 

work,  that  the  women,  who  could  not  carry,  worked  and 
earned  money,  and  paid  men  to  go  for  loads. 

Three  American  ladies,  Miss  Faulkner,  Miss  Hamilton, 
and  Miss  Fleming,  joined  the  mission  in  May.  The  two 
former  reside  at  Lukunga,  and  have  flourishing  schools, 
while  Miss  Fleming,  an  educated  African,  stayed  at  Palabala. 
Messrs.  Camp  and  Lewis  also  went  out  this  year. 


454  AN  ANSWERED  PRAYER. 


In  1888  Mr.  Banks  and  Mr.  Murphy  had  replaced  Mr. 
Kddie  at  Equator  Station.  The  latter  had  done,  some 
useful  translations  during  his  stay,  and  among  other  things 
had  rendered  into  two  different  African  languages  "  Peep 
of  Day,"  a  book  which,  though  intended  for  children,  suits 
the  undeveloped,  childish,  yet  inquiring  minds  of  the 
natives.     Mr.  Banks  wrote  : 

I  have  gained  a  good  deal  of  influence  among  these  people  through 
the  medical  help  I  have  been  able  to  render  them.  When  we  first 
came  many  of  the  people  were  dying  from  dysentery.  About  thirty 
or  forty  came  to  me,  and  all  except  one  recovered.  One  day,  when 
holding  a  meeting  in  the  town,  after  several  people  had  died,  I  was 
accused  by  some  as  having  been  the  means  of  their  death.  They 
said,  "  Before  you  came  here  none  of  us  were  dying,  but  since  you 
came  many  people  have  died."  But  other  people  in  the  crowd  soon 
spoke  on  my  behalf,  and  cried  out,  "No,  it  is  not  so;  have  not  all 
who  went  to  him  recovered  except  one  ?  And  she  was  almost  dead 
when  he  went  to  her."  There  was  considerable  discussion  about  it, 
but  it  soon  became  apparent  that  those  who  were  against  us  were  in 
the  minority.  Now,  when  I  go  to  the  town,  they  very  readily  listen 
to  the  good  news  of  the  land  where  death  shall  be  no  more. 

One  day  when  in  a  town  down  river,  after  service  the  people  said  : 
"  We  have  heard  what  you  had  to  tell  us,  but  you  say  nothing  about 
two  things  of  which  we  wish  to  hear.  What  about  the  river  being  so 
lozu  ?  and  why  do  men  die  ?  Before  you  came  the  river  used  to  rise  so 
high  ?  now  it  comes  up  a  little,  and  then  goes  back.  It  is  your  well 
that  is  the  cause  of  it  ;  remove  it,  and  we  will  give  you  two  goats."  I 
rose  up,  and  called  all  the  people  to  come  near  to  me  ;  they  came,  and 
eveiy  face  showed  expectancy.  I  then  asked,  "  Can  any  of  you  make 
the  river  to  rise?" — "No." — "Do  you  know  any  one  who  can?" — 
«'  No." — "  Then  why  do  you  think  that  I  can  ?  Am  I  not  a  man  even 
as  you?  Who  made  the  river?" — "  God." — "Then  if  He  made  it, 
He  can  only  make  it  to  rise.  Is  it  not  so?" — "Yes." — "Then  why 
don't  you  ask  Him  to  give  you  water?  "—"  We  can't  see  Him.  Where 
is  He  ?  " — "He  is  here  now,  and  although  you  can't  see  Him,  He  can 
hear  you.  Why  don't  you  ask  Him  ?  " — "  We  don't  know  how.  You 
ask  Him  I"'—"  Come  then,  let  us  ask  Him  together."  I  then  led  in 
prayer,  asking  that  the  river  might  rise  soon,  as  the  people  were  short 


MR.    BANKS. 

ot  food.  When  I  had  hnished,  the  people  looked  at  me  very  hard  for 
a  little;  then  I  said  :  "  Now  we  have  asked,  trust  Him.  He  never  lies, 
and  He  has  said,  'Ask,  and  ye  shall  receive.'  "  That  same  night  the 
river  rose  four  Inches,  and  has  continued  to  rise  since. 

We  generally  have  three  or  four  services  every  Sunday,  besides  one 
among  our  children  and  workmen  every  night.  Of  course  we  have  only 
been  able  to  do  this  within  the  last  few  months  ;  before  that  we  did 
not  know  the  language  sufficiently  well.  Owing  to  the  rainy  weather, 
and  the  miserable  state  of  our  houses,  I  have  been  much  interrupted 
in  my  translation  work,  and  I  do  not  see  how  I  can  get  on  with  it  as  I 
should  like  for  some  time  to  come.  Still  I  get  much  to  encourage  me, 
as  trading  canoes  often  stop  here,  and  I  have  a  fine  opportunity  of 
preaching  the  gospel  to  those  who  have  never  heard  it  before. 


456 


LIFE  AT  LUKUNGA. 


Last  night  just  at  sunset  a  dozen  men  and  boys  came  down  to  the 
station,  and  after  sitting  in  the  porch  for  a  while,  the  chief  said, 
"White  man,  tell  us  the  words  of  God,  and  sing."  I  immediately 
endeavoured  to  set  before  them  the  gospel  of  love.  After  I  had 
spoken  to  them  for  a  little  while,  one  man  with  a  face  full  of  excite- 
ment turned  to  the  others,  and,  tapping  his  breast,  said,  "I  fee!  it,  I 
feel  it  here." 

In  the  spring  of  1889  Miss  Bernice  Royal,  of  Maine,  and 
Miss  Annie  Gordon,  of  Atlanta  Seminary,  Georgia,  joined 
the  Congo  Mission,  and  in»  the  autumn  Messrs.  Raine 
Hartsock,  and  Hyde  Mr.  Raine  was  at  one  time  a 
student  in  our  Institute,  but  he  had  been  for  some  years 
in    America,   where   he  was  ordained.      Mr.    Hartsock   is 


■=^^ia'gg 


AFRICAN   ANT-HILL 


supported  by  the  students  of  Brown  University,  and  is  the 
first  Baptist  representative  of  the  college  missionary  move- 
ment, to  go  abroad.  These  three  brethren  stayed  a  short 
time  in  London  on  their  way  to  Africa.  Their  instructions 
were  to  open  work  on  the  Kasai,  if  they  could  be  spared 
from  other  claims. 

Miss  Royal  wrote  soon  after  her  arrival  at  her  station  to 
her  friends  in  America. 

I  have  already  been  in  Lukunga  two  weeks,  but  my  tVunks  have  not 
yet  arrived,  such  is  African  transport.  We  have  quite  a  nice  little 
iron  house  with  dining-room,  two  bedrooms,  and  two  bath-rooms. 
We  have  a  school  of  seventy-five  children,  only  four  of  them  girls. 
Miss  Faulkner  and  I  do  their  sewing,  so  you  may  judge  we  have  not 
an  idle  life.  There  are  ninety  members  of  the  Church.  Vou  should 
be  in  one  of  their  prayer-meetings  !  no  lack  of  prayers  or  words. 

Lukunga  is  a  very  pretty  place.     Our  station  is  built  in  the  valley  ; 


0  UTSTA  TIONS.  457 


the  river  runs  by  two  sides.  The  ladies'  house  is  on  a  hill  at  a  little 
distance.  The  British  mission  has  a  station  at  the  left,  and  the  State 
station  is  a  little  farther  on. 

I  like  the  natives  very  much.  There  are  some  good  intellects  and 
some  grand  Christians  among  them.  The  up-country  path  lies  directly 
through  our  grounds,  and  one  old  man  takes  every  opportunity  to  preach 
to  the  carriers  that  pass.  I  have  three  very  bright  young  men  in  my 
class  in  English.  They  are  so  anxious  to  learn,  that  it  is  a  pleasure 
to  teach  them.  Miss  Faulkner  goes  to  the  town  twice  a  day  to  teach 
the  women.  They  cannot  come  to  the  school,  but  will  come  from  the 
fields  long  enough  to  take  a  lesson  in  reading.  The  king  does  not 
favour  the  girls  going  to  school,  for  fear  they  will  not  work  in  the  fields 
when  they  grow  up.  The  native  dress  is  a  loose  jacket,  with  a  piece 
of  cloth  tied  around  the  waist,  reaching  to  the  ankles,  but  farther  up 
the  river  they  wear  only  a  cloth  about  the  loins. 

The  red  ants  are  the  only  things  I  have  encountered  yet  in  the 
horrible  insect  line.  I  have  not  seen  a  centipede  nor  a  snake,  though 
I  hear  of  one  occasionally.  You  have  no  idea  what  a  busy  life  we 
lead,  and  yet  we  do  but  little  housework.  One  boy  cooks ;  one  does 
the  washing ;  one  washes  dishes,  and  takes  care  of  Miss  Faulkner's 
room ;  one  waits  on  table,  and  is  to  take  charge  of  my  room  when  I 
get  anything  to  put  in  it.  We  have  a  little  boy  in  our  house  who  is 
supported  by  one  of  the  mission  bands,  twenty  dollars  a  year.  We 
call  him  our  baby.  He  is  a  cunning  little  fellow,  named  Johnnie,  who 
helps  about  the  table,  his  chin  just  reaching  up  to  it. 

Mr.  Hoste  has  now  formed  an  outstation  at  some 
distance  from  Lukunga,  and  having  a  famiHar  acquain- 
tance with  the  country  and  language,  is  hoping  to 
found  several  such  and  to  visit  them  from  time  to 
time.     He  writes  to  a  friend, — 

I  am  glad  you  approve  of  the  circuit  plain,  for  I  am  feeling  more 
and  more  every  day  the  dire  need  of  some  such  arrangement.  The 
evangelization  of  this  country  cannot  be  accomplished  by  the  itineration 
on  any  wide  scale  of  ivhile  missionaries.  The  climate,  the  heat,  and 
our  bodily  weakness  prevent.  The  extremely  scattered  condition  of 
the  towns  and  villages  is  also  a  difficulty,  while  the  travelling  and 
business  propensities  of  the  people  render  the  gathering  of  a  congre- 
gation at  any  moment  uncertain.     I  have  had  sufficient  experience  in 


458  THE   CHURCH  IN  LUKUNGA. 


ilinerating  to  assert  that  all  these  are  great  difficulties,  and  I  think  the 
experience  of  others  is  similar. 

My  idea  would  be  to  establish  myself,  say,  at  a  place  like  Kinkamba, 
build  a  dwelling-house,  a  store,  a  school,  and  chapel,  start  jireaching 
the  gospel,  and  with  one  or  two  converts  establish  ourselves  as  the 
Church  at  Kinkamba.  Now  that  we  possess  a  fair  knowledge  of  the 
language  and  can  use  it  eflfectively,  there  is  good  reason  to  hope  that  at 
no  distant  date  members  would  be  added  to  the  little  Church.  I  should 
try  to  start  a  day  school  in  addition  to  evangelizing  in  tlie  towns  round 
about.  Samar  is  a  very  important  point.  Kimbembc  claims  that  there 
are  some  seven  or  eight  Christians  there.  His  own  mother  he  stead- 
fastly asserts  died  in  the  Lord,  bidding  people  to  make  no  fuss  over 
her,  as  she  was  "going  to  be  with  Jesus."  This  woman  as  far  as  I 
know  had  never  been  to  the  station  ;  but  as  a  rule  and  in  the  long  run, 
without  means  of  reading  God's  word,  or  even  hearing  it,  there  would 
of  necessity  be  spiritual  weakness,  indeed  an  absence  of  vigour  little 
distinguishable  from  death. 

Kimbembe  suggested  moving  the  Christians  here,  but  I  cannot  advise 
it.  I  believe  this  moving  to  mission  stations  to  be  very  injurious.  If 
a  Christianity  cannot  stand  in  the  towns,  better  for  it  to  be  overthrown 
till  it  has  learned  the  secret  that  we  neither  glorify  Cod  nor  improve 
ourselves  by  running  away  from  troubles  and  temptations.  The  grace 
which  is  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  the  true  remedy.  Possibly 
Kimbcmbe's  case  is  outside  of  this  ;  but  I  think  to  have  the  nucleus  of 
a  Church  within  ten  miles  would  be  a  great  thing.  We  may  be  doing 
the  country  round  a  serious  injury  by  removing  a  group  of  converts 
from  their  own  place. 

;\Iiss  Hamilton  is  doing  the  medical  work  here,  and  is  exactly  adapted 
for  it.  Miss  Faulkner  now  has  t'i<o  women's  schools,  one  in  Nsenda, 
in  the  early  morning,  and  one  at  Mayambula  in  the  evening.  It  is 
a  splendid  work,  and  one  for  which  she  is  adii\irably  adapted. 

My  fear  with  regard  to  myself  is  that  my  strength  will  fail  mc. 
Whether  this  is  the  lime  to  seek  rest  I  do  not  know.  You  see  the  word 
is  just  now  springing  up,  and  the  labourers  are  sorely  few.  There  may 
come  a  lime  when  there  Avill  be  a  more  adequate  supply  of  workers, 
and  I  might  think  of  taking  a  holiday  ;  but  the  privilege  of  standing 
in  this  breach  is  to  me  far  more  precious  than  years  of  life.  So  God 
giving  me  the  privilege  and  the  grace  through  and  in  Jesus  my  Lord,  I 
hope  He  will  permit  me  lobe  spent  in  effectual  service  for  the  establish- 
ment of  His  kingdom  here.  Gh  that  God  may  pour  out  Holy  Ghost 
fire  on  the  burnt  offering  offered  on  the  altar  to  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ ! 


STANLEY  POOL.  439 


I  am  thankful  to  ^ay  there  is  a  great  spirit  of  obedience  to  Christ 
and  His  Church  as  such  among  us,  and  a  great  fear  of  discipline,  which 
I  think  is  in  itself  a  decided  manifestation  of  the  spirituality  of  the 
Church.  We  have  found  that  those  cases  which  we  have  had  to  bring 
to  the  notice  of  the  Church  have  resulted  satisfactorily. 

The  medical  mission  at  Stanley  Pool  is  gradually  gaining 
the  confidence  of  the  people.  Dr.  Sims  has  moved  his 
station  from  the  hill  at  Leopoldville  to  the  beach  at 
Kinchassa,  near  the  town  of  the  great  trader  X'galiema. 
A  daily  service  is  held  with  twenty  to  thirty  patients  before" 
their  ailments  are  attended  to  ;  and  some  of  the  people 
ask  questions  and  seem  interested.  But  as  yet  there  are 
no  converts,  and  a  good  deal  of  indifference,  not  to  say 
of  actual  dislike,  is  manifested  by  certain  sections  of  the 
people. 

The  place  has  already  become  such  a  busy  centre  of 
traffic  and  travel,  the  meeting  point  of  constant  caravans 
from  the  coast  with  the  twenty  steamers  already  plying  on 
the  Upper  Congo,  that  there  is  plenty  of  work  and  of  dis- 
traction for  the  natives,  rendering  it  not  the  most  favourable 
spot  for  a  mission  station.  On  the  other  hand,  native  traders 
from  long  distances  are  drawn  to  the  place  from  the  desire 
of  getting  gain,  and  often  carry  back  into  the  interior  news 
of  the  strange  message  from  heaven  which  the)'  have  heard. 


roKTKAITS   OF   THL:    1  IRST    rARTY   UF   THE   CONGO-BALOLO 
MISSION.     (.9jv  j^.  474.)    Sai I.F.I)  kor  Africa,  Ai-rii..   1889. 


CHAPTER    IV. 
OUR   NEW    CONGO-BALOLO   MISSION. 

When  in  the  summer  of  i88S  the  world's  great 
missionary  convention  gathered  at  Exeter  Hall,  Dr. 
Murdock  visited  London,  among  a  host  of  other 
worthy  secretaries  and  delegates  from  America.  His 
board  had  for  four  years  at  that  time  managed, 
reinforced,  and  efficiently  sustained  the  Livingstone 
Inland  Mission,  and  had  much  cause  to  rejoice  in 
its  spiritual  success.  We  were  glad  to  confer  with 
him  once  more 'over  the  progress  of  events  in  Central 
Africa,  and  over  plans  for  the  future. 

The  blessing  of  God  had  rested  on  the  mission,  and 
ive  felt  as  if  it  ought  to  be  extended.  Balololand, 
on  whose  borders  its  last  station  was  placed,  is  a 
sphere  which  presents  peculiar  missionary  attractions. 
One  language  is  spoken  all  over  its  vast  extent,  and 
it  is  opened  by  six  navigable  rivers,  southern  tribu- 
taries of  the  Congo.  Its  climate  is  fairly  healthy, 
to  judge  by  the  experience  of  Wangata  Station, 
Equatorville.  It  is  a  totally  unevangelized  country, 
and  populous,  containing,  as  is  supposed,  about  ten 

millions  of  people.    But  the  A.B.M.U.  was,  we  learned, 

461 


462  THE  A.B.M.U.   PLAN  OF  CAMPAIGN. 

not  likely  to  plant  stations  up  the  rivers  of  Balolo- 
land,  for  the  following  reasons. 

'One  of  the  leading  principles  governing  the  policy 
and  practice  of  the  Union  is  that  of  concentration,  and 
radiation  from  a  centre.  Their  experience  in  Burmah 
and  India  has,  they  think,  proved  that  their  best 
plan  is  to  make  a  strong  station  in  a  good  strategical 
position,  to  furnish  it  with  a  sufficient  staff  and  with 
schools,  dispensary,  and  books,  and  then  to  aim.  not 
only  at  making  converts  and  gathering  these  into 
a  Church,  learning  the  language  perfectly,  and  pre- 
paring translations  ;  but  also  at  developing  and  train- 
ing as  quickly  as  possible  a  native  agcnc)-.  This 
agency  they  subsequently  employ  to  spread  the 
gospel  from  a  whole  circle  of  out-stations,  the  white 
missionary  in  the  centre  overlooking  them  all,  and 
carrying  on  the  teaching  of  the  teachers.  The 
specially  promising  converts  from  the  out-stations  can 
be  in  their  turn  trained  at  the  centre,  and  when  ready 
sent  out  to  occupy  a  still  larger  circle  of  out-stations. 

This  conception  is  opposed  to  the  idea  on  which 
the  Livingstone  Island  Mission  had  been  organized 
— that  of  a  chain  of  stations  reaching  from  the  coast 
to  Stanle)'  Falls.  Ultimately  the  two  methods  would 
reach  the  same  result,  but  not  at  first.  The  central 
stations  of  the  A.B.]\I.U.  extended  would  form  a 
chain.  Each  link  of  the  chain  of  the  L.I.M.  was 
of  course  intended  to  grow  into  a  centre.  But  in  the 
start,  the  two  plans  are  contrasted.  The  A.B.IM.U. 
regarded  one  language  as  the  badge  of  one  mission, 
and  in  taking  over  the  Livingstone   Inland   ^Mission 


WHAT  OF  THE  ''REGIONS   BEYOND"? 


461 


felt  that  they  were  virtuall)' 
adopting  several,  as  it  was  then 
working  in  Kikongo,  Kiteke, 
Kyansi,  and  Kilolo.  Dr.  Sims 
had  also  done  some  work  in 
Yalulema.  The  Board  did  not 
wish  consequently  so  early  in 
the  day  to  extend  the  stations  of 
the  mission  beyond  the  equator, 
already  eight  hundred  miles 
removed  from  their  first  station 
on  the  coast.  They  very  pro- 
perly felt  that  the  languages  of 
the  Cataract  gorge  and  of  the  Pool  would  give  them 
room  enough  and  to  spare  for  many  years  to  come, 
extending  as  they  do  far  both  to  the  north  and  south. 


ONE  OF   THE  KYANSI- 
SPEAKING   PEOPLE. 


We,  on  the  other  hand,  were  constantly  asking, 
But  meantime  what  of  the  regions  beyond  ?  What 
of  the  ten  million  Balolo  ?  What  of  the  Bangala  of 
the  northern  bank  ?  What  of  the  Lomami  and  the 
Aruwimi  ?  Were  they  to  be  left  unevangelized  ? 
What  of  the  Ikatta,  and  of  the  Sankulu  and  its  many 
large  tributaries?  The  Swedish  Society  was  not 
likely  to  spread  in  this  direction,  and  the  English 
B.M.S.,  though  it  had  explored  the  region,  and  even 
selected  sites,  had  been  unable  to  occupy  them  all, 
and  did  not  seem  likely  to  do  so  for  some  time  to 
come.  Sickness  and  death  had  sorely  diminished 
the  staff,  and  it  was  as  much  as  they  could  do  to 
hold    their   existing   stations.     The  dut)-   seemed  to 


464  CHANGES  AT  HARLEY  HOUSE. 


devoh'c  on  us,  and  we  felt  as  if  a  call  had  come  to 
us  to  go  forward. 

Ever  since  the  transfer  \vc  had  continued  to  watch 
the  work  in  Central  Africa  with  undiminished  inte- 
rest, and  to  pray  for  it  with  unchanged  earnestness. 
We  had  continued  to  act  as  an  auxiliary  to  the 
American  Society,  though  to  an  annually  lessening 
degree.  Friends  in  England  hardly  felt  the  need  of 
contributing  to  so  strong  and  rich  a  society  as  the 
A.B.M.U.,  which  acts  for  Churches  numbering  over 
three  millions  of  members; — and  their  donations  to  the 
Congo  Mission  consequently  decreased.  We  regretted 
that  their  help  should  be  lost  to  so  needy  a  field. 
We  had  moreover  in  the  Institute  numbers  of  men 
willing  and  anxious  to  ser\'e  Christ  on  the  Congo, 
whom  the  A.B.M.U.  were  not  likely  to  send  out, 
because  they  naturally  wished  to  introduce  an 
American  element  into  a  staff  so  largely  composed 
of  English  and  Scotch. 

Moreover  during  the  years  of  which  we  speak, 
1 884-1 888,  changes  of  an  important  character  had 
taken  place  in  the  East  London  Mission  Institute 
which  we  conduct,  changes  which  seemed  to  render 
possible  what  before  was  impossible.  A  new  gene- 
ration was  rising  up  to  help  us  in  our  missionary 
undertakings.  Son  and  daughters  were  consecrating 
to  the  work  young  energies,  sympathies,  and  talents. 
Our  eldest  daughter  had  herself  gone  to  China  as  a 
missionar)-,  and  our  younger  had  undertaken  home 
work  and  editorial  duties.  In  the  providence  of 
God   our   eldest  son,  H.  Grattan  Guinness,  M.R.C.S., 


MR.    McKITTRICK'S  RETURN'  FROM  AFRICA. 


and  his  gifted  and  efficient  young  wife,  had  heartily 
and  freely  devoted  themselves  to  the  work  of 
Christ  in  connexion  with  our  missionary  undertak- 
ings. They  had  relieved  us  of  much  of  the  manage- 
ment of  the  London  branches  and  missions,  so  that 
former  burdens  were  somewhat  lightened  to  the 
Secretary,  and  fresh  and  valuable  help  secured  to 
the  Institute.  They  had  taken  up  their  residence  at 
Harley  House,  our  London  headquarters,  and  here 
they  naturally  received  and  showed  hospitality  to 
returned  Congo  workers,  among  other  missionaries, 
from  time  to  time. 

Early  in  1888  Mr.  John  McKittrick  came  home  on 
furlough.  He  had  been  labouring  at  Equator  Station, 
on  the  Upper  Congo,  the  advanced  outpost  of  the 
mission  ;  and  he  brought  with  him  to  his  old  home  at 
Harley  College,  not  only  a  heart  full  of  love  for  the 
Balolo  and  an  overflowing  zeal  for  their  conversion, 
but  also  a  living  specimen  of  the  race,  a  Balolo  boy, 
named  Bompole. 

We  were  deeply  interested  in  all  we  learned  from 
them  both  of  this  great  Central  African  people. 
Our  hearts  were  drawn  out  to  so  large  and  dark  a 
nation,  and  the  results  of  the  apparently  accidental 
visit  will,  we  trust,  be  of  eternal  importance  to  the 
Balolo  people,  whom  we  must  briefly  introduce  to  our 
feaders  before  closing. 

Eighty  years  ago,  the  peaceful  Bantu  dwellers  on 
the  southern  bank  of  the  Upper  Congo  River  were 
disturbed    by  an   invasion   from   the  east.     A    great 

C.  A.  30 


BOMPOLE, 

nation  came  travelling  westward,  and  took  posses- 
sion of  the  left  bank  of  the  stream,  turning  out  the 
former  occupants,  and  bringing  in  a  new  language, 
customs,  and  people.  The  powerful  invaders  were 
significantly  called  Balolo,  "  I  RON-PEOPLE,"  or,  as 
we  should  express  it,  tJie  strong  tribe* 


*  Significant  names  are  the  rule  in  Central  Africa.  On  the  Lower 
Congo  we  have  the  Bakongo,  or  hunters,  and  the  Bakuende,  or 
travellers,  the  two  tribes  being  ilislinguished  respectively  as   hunters 

466 


Sketch  Map  to  show  the  Locality  occuriED  uy  the  Balolo  I'eoi'le,  and  the  First  Two  Stations  ok  the  Ne 
A  Third  will  (d.v.)  he  opened  on  the  Juapa  River  in  1S90. 

I'o  face  p.   4'J70 


THE  BALOLO   OR  "IRON  PEOPLE."  467 

And  strong  they  proved  themselves  to  be.  The 
territory  which  they  thus  conquered,  and  have  since 
kept  and  dwelt  in,  is  nearly  five  times  as  large  as 
England.  A  glance  at  the  map  will  show  that  it  fills 
the  horseshoe  bend  of  the  Congo.  From  the  Lomami 
in  the  East  to  the  Lakes  Mantumba  and  Leopold 
on  the  West,  and  from  the  Lopori  on  the  North 
to  the  headwaters  of  the  Bosira  and  Juapa  on  the 
South  {i.e.  to  about  three  degrees  of  south  latitude), 
the  Balolo  are  living  to-day,  and  living  moreover  in  a 
somewhat  more  civilized  fashion  than  the  natives  of 
the  Lower  Congo. 

The  tangled  growth  of  the  tropical  forest  is  cleared 
away  in  their  settlements,  and  the  fertile  soil  sown 
with  maize  and  mandioca  by  their  industry;  for,  being 
expert  in  the  working  and  smelting  of  brass,  they 
produce  axes,  planes,  hoes,  spades,  and  other  useful 
implements  of  agriculture.  Every  Balolo  possesses 
well-tempered  knives,  and  he  carries  a  spear  and 
shield,  and  sometimes  a  tastefully  carved  execution 
knife,  in  case  of  emergency.  Every  village  has  its 
smithy,  if  not  its  spreading  chestnut  tree  ;  and  the 
smith,  who  supports  himself  solely  by  his  own  branch 
of  labour,  is  held  in  high  repute  amongst  his  towns- 
folk,   being   skilled    in    the    production   of   bracelets, 


and  travellers,  the  latter  in  connexion  with  the  necessary  trading  trans- 
port between  the  upper  and  lower  rivers.  Higher  up,  at  Stanley  rool, 
come  the  Batkke,  who  live  exclusively  by  trade,  even  refusing  to 
cultivate  the  ground,  and  whose  name  means  merchants.  Farther  up 
the  Congo  we  meet  with  the  Bayansi,  ox  people  of  the  land,  who  are  the 
aborigines,  and  with  the  Baloloj  or  iron-people,  from  ba  and  lolo,  iron. 
In  each  case  the  prefi.x  ba  means  people; 


468  WOMEN   M.IVS  LV  HALOLOLAND. 

necklaces,  and  ornaments,  besides  weapons  of  war 
and  more  peaceful  implements  of  toil. 

The  workmanship  of  Balolo  canoes  is  excellent. 
Hollowed  from  the  trunk  of  durable  trees  and  manned 
by  practised  paddlers,  these  simple  craft  are  swift  and 
serviceable,  a  considerable  flotilla  being  attached  to 
every  town.  Let  us  visit  one  of  the  latter,  and  notice 
the  incipient  civilization  that  prevails. 

Here  is  Molungo's  town.  W'c  walk  down  its  long 
street  and  reach  the  town-hall  of  the  place.  Seated 
throughout,  this  room  accommodates  two  or  three 
hundred  people.  The  lords  and  commons  who 
assemble  here  to  discuss  the  law  of  the  land  are  pro- 
vided with  little  wooden  couches  six  inches  or  so  in 
height.  If  the  legislative  assembly  were  sitting,  we 
should  find  female  M.P.'s  among  the  number,  for 
"  women's  rights  "  are  recognised  by  the  Balolo,  and 
women  hold  at  the  equator  a  position  of  equality 
with  men.  As  may  be  reasonably  expected,  she  has 
at  times  a  good  deal  to  say  in  the  house  ! 

We  pass  out  of  the  place  of  palaver  and  continue 
our  walk  through  the  town.  The  people  we  meet  are 
well  dressed  compared  to  the  natives  of  the  lower 
river.  The  streets  are  straight  and  regular,  running 
at  right  angles  in  American  style  ;  their  large,  com- 
modious houses  built  of  palm  fronds.  There  is  no 
lack  of  people  here  ;  the  population  numbers  about 
four  thousand.  It  takes  us  no  less  than  three  hours 
to  walk  through  this  long  town,  and  Mulonga's  town 
and  Bokenula's  farther  on,  have  each  twice  its 
population. 


BAI.OLO    HEADS. 


Steaming  against  the  current  of  the  Congo,  we 
come  to  Boyela  presently.  Here  the  left  bank  of 
the  river  is  steep  and  very  high  ;  we  notice  the  native 
ladders  and  ingenious  zigzag  paths  cut  in  the  sides 
of  the  declivity,  and  find  that  it  takes  us  an  hour  and 
a  half  to  steam  past  the  town. 

And  now  what  kind  of  people  are  the  Balolo  ? 
W'c  turn  from  their  handiwork  and  surroundings  to 
themselves,  and  find  that  in  their  physical  frames,  as 
in  everything  else,  these  Upper  Congo  natives  are  a 
contrast  to  the  dwellers  on  the  lower  river.  Powerful 
and  finely  developed,  they  are,  as  a  rule,  superior  to 
Europeans  as  far  as  physique  is  concerned. 

Our  illustrations,  taken  from  sketches  made  at 
Equatorville,  give  an  idea  of  the  Balolo  physiogomy. 
The  most  casual  observer  cannot  fail  to  notice  the 
remarkable  contrast  between  this  and  the  negro  head. 
The  high  forehead  and  fine  mental  development,  the 
comparatively  delicate  lips  and  lower  jaw,  the  aquiline 


470      ••/  HEAL  THY  CO  UNTR  V  AND  A  UXITED  PEOPLE. 


nose,  and  the  general  intelligence,  are  an  index  of  the 
Balolo  character. 

Stanley  was  the  first  to  visit  and  describe  the  Balolo, 
but  he  only  saw  them  in'  passing,  and  no  one  had 
made  acquaintance  with  them  until  our  missionaries 
did  so.  When  in  1884  the  pioneers  of  the  L.I.M. 
planted  their  farthest  station  at  Equatorville,  within 
five  miles  of  the  line,  they  found  themselves  on  the 
outskirts  of  a  great  unevangelized  nation.  A  new, 
strange  language  sounded  in  their  ears  ;  an  intelligent, 
warlike  people  surrounded  them  ;  they  were  amongst 
the  Balolo. 

Not  however  till  they  had  learnt  the  language  and 
spent  about  two  years  in  the  country  did  they  realize 
what  this  fact  involved.  Thc\'  had,  as  it  were,  struck 
at  last  upon  a  rich  human  mine.  The  constantly 
varying  languages  and  tribes  of  the  lower  river  were 
passed.  The  mission  had  reached  for  the  first  time 
a  heaWiy  country  and  a  great,  united  people.  For  600 
miles  a  populous  land  lay  before  them,  vexed  at  times 
by  petty  quarrels,  it  is  true,  but  never  devastated  by 
sanguinar\'  intertribal  wars  ;  for  the  men  who  dwelt 
in  it  were  brothers,  speaking  one  mother-tongue  and 
claiming  one  original  roof-tree.  Living  a  thousand 
miles  from  the  coast,  unvisitcd  as  }'et  b}'  the  Arabs 
of  the  East,  and  protected  by  the  Cataract  region 
from  the  demoralizing  influences  of  the  rum  and 
gin  trade  of  Europeans  on  the  West,  these  simple- 
minded  sons  of  Ham  were  living  quietly  in  their 
millions,  and  were  willing  for  missionaries  to  go 
among  them.     Intelligent,  industrious,  and  friendly 


FOUNDATION  OF  THE  NEW  MISSION.  471 

the  Balolo  are  scarcely  to  be  called  savages.  They 
understand  division  of  labour ;  farmers,  gardeners, 
smiths,  boat-builders,  weavers,  cabinet-makers,  ar- 
mourers, warriors,  and  speakers,  are  already  differen- 
tiated among  them.  They  occupy  only  a  low  plane 
of  civilization  as  yet,  but  they  have  begun  to  emerge 
from  barbarism.  They  are  not  idolaters.  There 
exists  among  them  an  evident  belief  in  a  supreme 
Being,  who  is  held  to  be  the  providential  ruler  of  all 
human  affairs,  and  also  in  a  future  life.  They  have 
traditions  of  the  creation,  while  such  expressions  as 
"  God  is  the  maker  of  all,"  "  God  reigns  over  all,"  are 
common  among  them.  In  spite  of  this,  they  are  sunk 
in  the  most  degraded  superstitions,  believing  firmly, 
like  other  Central  Africans,  in  witchcraft  and  charms, 
filled  with  childish  fear  of  the  supernatural,  and  having 
no  conception  of  reward  or  punishment  after  death. 

The  old  m.ission  had  in  its  early  days  suffered 
severely  from  climate.  But  these  Balolo  dwell  in  an 
elevated  and  healthy  plateau.  Mr.  Eddie  had  written 
to  us  from  Wangata:  "This  is  evidently  a  twj  healthy 
place  ;  we  enjoy  excellent  health  here;  for  six  months 
I  was  not  ill  for  an  hour,  and  then  I  had  only  a  little 
fever.  Brother  Pettcrsen  was  without  fever  for  a 
longer  period."  This  was  a  great  argument  in  favour 
of  Balololand,  and  altogether  we  felt  strongly  led  to 
attempt  an  extension  of  the  mission  into  that  region. 

The  New  Coxco-Balolo  Missiox. 

After  full  conference  with  our  friend  Dr.  Murdock, 
it  was  agreed   that  our  auxiliary  should  become  an 


MR.  JOHN     McKITTRICK,  OF    BELFAST, 
Leader  of  the  Con^o-Balolo  Mission. 

independent  though  related  mission  ;  that  it  should 
be  manned,  and  managed,  and  supported  from 
England,  and  that  it  should  undertake  the  definite 
work  of  carrying  the  gospel  to  the  Balolo.  He  con- 
sented on  behalf  of  the  A.B.M.U.  to  liberate  Mr. 
McKittrick,  who  wished  to  be  set  free  to  lead  the  first 
party  of  the  new  mission,  and  with  great  kindness 
and  liberality  the  Union  subsequently   consented  to 


THE  FIRST  PARTY  FOR  BALOLOLAND,  473 


lend  us  for  tweh'e  months  the  Henry  Reed  steamer,  so 
that  the  start  of  the  new  mission  need  not  be  delayed 
while  a  steamer  of  its  own  was  being  procured. 

The  two  missions  will  work  in  perfect  harmon}-, 
and  assist  each  other  to  their  utmost,  indeed  they 
will  be  rather  two  branches  of  one  mission.  It  was 
understood  between  us  that  if  we  should  ever  again 
be  constrained  to  drop  our  work  on  the  Congo,  the 
Balolo  Auxiliary  should  be  handed  over  to  the  mission 
of  the  A.B.M.U.  But  we  hope  there  is  no  fear  of 
this,  as  we  now  possess  in  the  Directorate  a  com- 
bination of  the  experience  of  age  with  the  energies 
of  youth,  our  son  H.  Grattan  Guinness,  jun.,  M.R.C.S., 
and  his  wife,  undertaking  the  secretar}'ship  and  the 
main  home  responsibility  of  the  new  work. 

We  were  convinced  that  this  fresh  effort  would  be 
pleasing  to  Him  who  always  yearned  over  those  that 
were  afar  off  "  Other  sheep  I  have,  which  are  not  of 
this  fold  :  them  also  I  must  bring,  and  there  shall  be 
one  flock,  and  one  shepherd."  Here  were  ten  mil- 
lions of  "other  sheep,"  oh  how  destitute!  and  we  in 
England,  oh  how  rich  in  spiritual  goods  !  Was  it 
not  a  duty  to  try  and  help  them  ?  Reluctantly,  and 
onh'  under  the  irresistible  pressure  of  circumstances, 
we  had  laid  aside  gospel  work  in  Central  Africa  for 
a  few  years  in  1884,  and  we  were  right  glad  and 
thankful  to  resume  it  in  1888. 

A  number  of  Christian  friends  of  various  denomi- 
nations agreed  to  form  themselves  into  an  Advisory 
Council  to  confer  with  and  assist  the  Directors  by 
advice  and  by  fellowship  in  prayer.     The  interest   in 


474  Af^S.  JOHN  MiKlTTRICK. 

the  Congo  which  had  in  measure  died  down,  was 
re-awakened  by  press  and  platform,  and,  in  answer  to 
much  intercession,  the  Lord  graciously  worked  with 
His  servants,  and  mo\ed  the  hearts  of  some  to  give 
and  of  others  to  go,  so  that  no  time  was  lost. 

The  spring  is  the  best  season  for  an  expedition 
to  start,  but  much  had  to  be  done  both  in  Africa 
and  in  England  b)-  way  of  preparation. 

The  party  had  to  be  formed,  the  funds  provided,  and 
a  steamer  secured  against  the  end  of  the  }'ear  for 
which  the  Henry  Reed  was  lent.  We  wished  the  first 
expedition  to  be  strong  enough  to  found  \.\\o  stations, 
as  well  as  to  work  the  steamer,  and  it  was  decided 
therefore  that  it  should  consist  of  eight  missionaries. 
Seven  volunteers  soon  came  forward  to  join  ]\Ir. 
McKittrick  for  Balololand.  Others  offered,  but  were 
not  thought  suitable.  The  portraits  on  p.  460  of 
the  group  which  ultimately  started  will  be  more 
interesting  if  we  add  a  few  words  about  each  member 
of  it. 

One  of  the  part)-  was  a  bride,  a  dear  )'oung  niece 
of  our  own,  who  had  already  spent  five  years  among 
the  Syrians  of  the  Lebanon  and  Damascus,  and  who 
had  just  been  married  to  Mr.  John  McKittrick,  the 
leader  of  the  band.  She  had  become  a  good  Arabic 
scholar  ;  but  before  going  to  the  East  had  consecrated 
her  life  to  the  Congo,  for  which  field  she  was  how- 
ever at  that  time  too  young.  Her  sympathies  had 
been  drawn  out  towards  the  people  when  very  }'oung 
through  knowing  the  nati^•e  lads  who  had  been  with 
us  in  England  ;  and  her  missionary  experience  and 


MRS.  JOHN    McKITTRICK, 

and  Three  of  her  Congo  Boys. 


linguistic    ability    made   her   an    acquisition     to   the 
mission. 

Miss  dc  Hailes,  the  only  other  lady  in  the  part}',  had 
also  for  some  }'ears  had  the  Congo  in  view.  She  was 
betrothed  to  the  late  Alexander  Cowe,  one  of  the 
B.M.S.  martyrs  of  the  gospel  on  the  Congo,  who  died 
at  San  Salvador  in  1885,  when  he  had  spent  only 
three  weeks  in  Africa  and  preached  only  once!     This 

475 


476  BOMPOLE. 


early  and  bitter  loss  brou^^ht  on  a  very  severe  illness, 
and  Miss  de  Hailes  had  to  learn  the  difficult  lesson  of 
patience  in  the  school  of  sorrow.  But  her  devotion 
to  the  Congo  remained ;  and  when  she  heard  of  the 
new  mission,  she  at  once  volunteered  to  join  it.  She 
had  in  the  meantime  increased  her  own  fitness  for  the 
work  by  studying  medicine  and  practising  nursing. 

Mr.  Peter  Whytock,  a  Scotchman,  had  spent  some 
years  at  Port  Said,  and  gained  experience  in  evan- 
gelizing in  various  spheres.  A  tried  and  proved  ser- 
vant of  God,  he  was  a  valuable  addition  to  the  staff  of 
the  mission,  and  better  adapted  to  stand  the  climate 
than  a  younger  man.  So  also  is  Mr.  Gustav  Haupt, 
a  beloved  and  esteemed  German  brother,  an  earnest 
preacher  and  soul-winner.  Mr.  James  Todd  is  from 
Glasgow  ;  and  Mr.  Blake  of  Ipswich  is,  like  his  great 
Master,  a  carpenter.  His  help  will  be  of  special  value 
in  the  early  stages  of  the  mission.  All  the  party, 
with  the  exception  of  Miss  de  Hailes,  were  from  our 
East  London  Missionary  Institute. 

The  coloured  boy,  Bompolc,  is  the  Balolo  native 
who  had  accompanied  Mr.  McKittrick  to  England  ; 
he  now  returned  with  the  party  going  to  evangelize 
his  people. 

This  lad  had  been  about  fifteen  months  in  our 
country,  and  was  on  landing  quite  unacquainted 
with  English.  As  it  will  give  a  little  idea  of  the  capa- 
bilities of  the  Balolo,  we  will  quote  from  an  article 
written  at  the  time  of  his  return  to  Africa  in  the 
pages  of  our  monthly  missionary  periodical,  TJie 
Regions  Beyond. 


''WHAT  TIME    THIS   CHIMNEY   WILL   FINISH?"    477 

Rather  more  than  twelve  months  ago  Bompole  landed  in 
England,  his  Congo  home  left  far  behind  him,  and  his  little 
heart  feeling  "very  fyten"  at  the  strange  surroundings  in 
which  he  found  himself.  He  "thought  language  very  funny 
way  to  speak, — like  music.  Couldn't  understand."  When  he 
arrived  at  Harley  House,  he  was  extremely  shy  and  silent. 
"  So  big  house,  so  many  people.  Never  eat  with  white  man 
before,  feel  shame  to  eat  breakfast  ;  shamed  when  went  to 
church,  so  many  people  looking  at  me,"  as  he  explained  after- 
wards. Our  barbarous  climate  and  our  strange  machinery 
were  equally  perplexing  to  his  Central  African  mind.  We  shall 
not  soon  forget  his  grave — "  IVhai  lime  this  chim?iey  will 
Hnish  ? "  apropos  of  a  London  fog  ;  or  the  solemn  "  I  think 
— wonderful.'"  of  which  he  delivered  himself,  after  standing 
awestruck  in  front  of  the  big  timepiece,  reverently  watching 
for  about  five  minutes  the  slow  advance  of  the  hands  of  the 
clock. 

"  I  think  wonderful  I — like  sun  I  " 

"Why  like  the  sun,  Bompole?"' 

"  Because — goes  slowly."  This  in  a  rather  frightened  voice, 
he  being  evidently  impressed  by  the  gradual  continuous  motion, 
imperceptible  to  the  eye,  except  by  the  distance  measured. 
When  the  clock  struck  the  hour  the  little  black  face  beamed. 
"He  like  the  song/" 

But  that  was  all  a  year  ago;  Bompole  is  famihar  with  English 
now  and  accustomed  to  our  v/ays  and  doings.  He  is  moreover 
about  to  return  to  the  Congo,  and  in  view  of  his  approaching 
departure  he  wishes,  through  these  pages,  to  say  good-bye  to 
the  very  numerous  friends  that  he  has  made  in  Great  Britain 
and  Ireland.  To  secure  this  end,  he  has,  with  infinite  trouble, 
composed,  dictated,  and  copied  out  in  his  own  handwriting 
the  letter  which  we  give  on  p.  480.  His  writing  is  in  reality 
considerably  larger  than  it  there  seems  to  be,  the  facsimile 
having  been  reduced  to  fit  Regions  Beyond.     In  his  own  words, 


478  "BODY  THROWING  AWAY." 

taken  down  just  as  they  were  spoken,  we  give  our  readers  a 
sketch  of  Eompole's  Recollections. 


'•Am  I  glad  I  am  going  home?  Ve— s  I  Another  way  glad, 
another  way  sorry.  Glad  seeing  my  people  ;  sony  saying  good-bye. 
Perhaps  if  I  grow  up  big  man,  be  able  to  come  back  in  England. 

"Glad  missionary's  wife  going  with  us.  People  like  to  see  white 
lady.  A  good  thing  to  see  missionary  have  w'xit  with  him.  Xo  wife, 
all  people  laughing  at  you.  Every  one  has  wife,  and  they  think 
missionary  ought  to  liave  wife. 

"My  father  was  chief  of  Wangala  people.  lie  was  kind  of  king, 
had  Hi'oity  wife  ( — twenty  wife,  or  I  think  more, — I  forgot)  and  many 
son,  daughters  too. 

"  We  want  missionary  to  tell  not  to  take  more  than  one  wife,  because 
God  says  so  in  His  book.  A'ery  shame  in  our  country  for  rich  man  to 
have  only  one  wife  I  Every  daughter  married  ;  man  pay  money  to  her 
father,  pay  three  boy  for  one  wife.  If  much  better  looking,  yfzv  boy  I 
English  people  get  wife  so  cheap.     In  Africa  pay  lot  of  money. 

"When  my  father  died,  his  wives  no  eating  anything  at  all  for  one 
week,  only  drink  water.  He  die,  they  no  tell  me,  no  tell  any  one  ;  but 
my  big  brother  went  caught  two  people,  one  man  and  one  woman  first. 
Then  they  cry  in  streets  to  tell  people  king  is  died.  All  his  son  come 
together,  make  kind  of  meeting,  arrange  all  his  daughters  together 
must  buy  one  man,  all  his  wives  together  buy  one  man,  and  one  wife 
king  bought  before  he  died  to  kill  'i.'hen  he  died.  Five  to  be  killed  ; — 
one  woman  and  one  man  caught,  and  these  three  others. 

"  King  bought  these  two  to  be  killed. — Said  to  his  son  before  died, 
'  If  I  die,  you  take  those  two  slaves  and  kill.' 

"  They  killed  them  because  believe  be  able  to  give  king  water  when 
he  want  drink,  after  he  died  ;  and  to  keep  him  warm  in  grave.  Shame 
putting  king  himself  in  grave  without  slave  !  Put  three  in  grave.  Put  one 
for  pillow,  one  under  feet — make  like  jug  for  warm  water — and  one  in 
middle  under  king,  want  to  keep  him  out  of  getting  dusty  in  earth. 

"  Other  two  they  kill  by  hanging.  Cut  off  head  and  throw  in  water 
for  one  week.  Flesh  come  off  head  and  head  dry,  after  that  put  head 
up  on  stick  in  king's  yard  to  show  that  king  was  rich.  Body  throwing 
away. 

"  N01.J  I  think  all  this  bad  5  at  first  thought  was  good.  Now  I  know- 
not  good  to  do  it.  My  people  think  good  before  missionaries  came. 
Those  people  uaiit  missionaries  to  teach  them  Ti'hat  bad,  n'hal  gooJ:'" 


BOMPOLES  RECOLLECTIONS. 


479 


What  pains  and  care  and  patience  Bompolc's  letter  repre- 
sents !  What  a  sense  of  crushing  responsibility  weighing  on 
two  certain  small,  black  shoulders  during  the  anxious  pro- 
cess of  its  production,  and  what  a  sense  of  glad  exuberance 
overflowing  a  certain  small  and  happy  heart  when  at  last  the 
tremendous  task  was  completed  !  Perhaps  we  shall  hardly 
be  believed  when  we  say  that  Bompole — all  unknown  to  us — 
laboured  at  copying  that  letter  from  five  in  the  evening  till 
I  a.m.  We  ourselves  could  hardly  credit  it.  But  those  who 
have  a  fellow-feeling,  and  can  appreciate  from  sad  experience 
a  touching  illustration  of  the  pangs  of  authorship,  will  be  as 
interested  as  we  were  to  hear  that  Bompole — understanding 
that  his  letter  was  to  appear  in  that  all-important  magazine, 
Regions  Beyond.,  and  that  his  words  would  be  scattered  far 
and  wide,  the  very  shape  of  each  letter  being  perpetuated — was 
so  overwhelmed  with  a  sense  of  the  magnitude  of  his  task  that 
he  could  neither  eat  nor  sleep  for  about  ten  hours,  and  went 
without  his  tea,  explaining  briefly  to  those  who  suggested  the 
advisability  of  taking  food,  "  WJicn  I  have  so  viiicli  ivorl:  to  do 
I  cannoi  cat .' " 


o  yA,jfit-<.  '^<-«-'n.    ^^xA^  <i^^Z>»>vo^    ^tVnt      <r>T^ 
O^p-t^O^J-t^ ,    -^i^nrv^,  ^^<w^    C^cu^     ^^^^^-'i^oA 


A    KlNGi    GRAVE    ].\    CEN'IRAL   AFRICA. 


Money  was  needed  as  well  as  men  for  the  new 
Balolo  Mission,  and  prayer  was  answered  as  to  this 
also.  One  liberal  and  wealthy  friend  was  led  to  give 
^8cxD  to  start  the  mission,  and  meet  its  initiatory 
expenses  ;  another  gave  ^250,  and  another  i^ioo. 
Large  numbers  of  smaller  donations  were  received. 
The  young  men  of  the  Y.M.C.A.  of  Belfast  pro- 
mised i^500  towards  the  steamer,  which  cost  ^1,400. 
A  noble  "  Irish  Friend,"  whose  name  was  not  given, 
made    up  the   requisite  amount  b}-  one  gift  of  ^"900  ; 

C.  A.  ^8,  31 


4S2    FROM  LONDON  TO  LULONCA  IN  FOUR  MONTHS. 

and  the  vessel  was  forthwith  put  in  hand.  She  is 
called  The  Pioneer,  and,  like  the  Henry  Reed,  is  sent 
out  in  plates  and  sections,  to  be  rebuilt  at  Stanley  Pool. 

The  mission  band  sailed  from  luigland  on  the  iSth 
of  April,  18S9,  and  reached  their  distant  destination 
on  the  Lulonga  River — the  mouth  of  which  lies  north 
of  the  equator  in  Central  Africa — in  the  middle  of 
August ;  the  entire  journey,  though  interrupted  b)' 
the  many  delays  incident  to  the  arrangements  needful 
for  a  new  undertaking,  occupying  thus  only  about 
four  months.  ¥o\xy years  would  not  have  accomplished 
it  ten  years  ago ;  it  would  have  been  an  impossibility  ! 
No  unarmed  party  could  then  have  made  its  way 
even  to  Stanley  Pool,  much  less  to  the  equator,  and 
beyond  it  into  Balololand.  What  an  illustration  of  the 
immense  progress  alread}'  made  on  the  Congo  !  What 
a  demonstration  that  the  providence  of  God  is  opening 
Central  Africa  to  the  gospel.  Before  another  ten 
}-ears  are  o\-cr  it  will  probably  be  perfectly  easy  to 
do  the  journey  in  four  weeks  !  The  kind  and  hearty 
co-operation  of  the  missionaries  already  in  the  country 
not  only  facilitated  the  advance  of  the  new  expedition, 
but  it  averted  most  of  the  dangers  from  exposure  and 
inexperience,  to  which  earlier  workers  had  so  often 
succumbed.  No  fatal  illness  occurred  on  the  journc}-, 
and  at  the  date  of  the  last  tidings  the  missionaries 
had  already  founded  two  stations,  one  on  the 
Lulonga,  and  the  other  on  the  Maringa,  at  its  con- 
fluence with  the  Lopori,  and  were  in  good  health 
and  spirits,  with  encouraging  prospects  before  them. 


B.-iS/S   OF  THE    C.B..V.  483 


The  basis  of  the  Congo-Balolo  Mission  is 
interdenominational,  simply  Christian,  and  thoroughly- 
evangelical.  ^Members  ,of  any  of  the  evangelical 
Churches  are  welcomed  as  workers  in  it.  It  oiTers 
no  attractions  in  the  way  of  good  salaries  or  other 
earthly  advantages  ;  it  is  a  "  work  of  faith  and  labour 
of  love,"  seeking  the  co-operation  only  of  men 
and  women  willing  to  endure  hardness  and,  if  need 
be,  to  lay  down  their  lives  for  Christ's  sake  and  the 
gospel's. 

Its  management  is — as  that  of  the  Livingstone 
Inland  Mission  was — in  the  hands  of  the  Directors 
of  the  East  London  Institute  for  Home  and  Foreign 
missions,^  who  are  assisted  b\'  a  council  at  home,  and 
b}^  a  standing  committee  of  senior  missionaries  in 
Africa. 

The  support  of  the  mission  is  undertaken  in  depen- 
dence on  God  by  the  Directors  of  the  East  London 
Institute.  It  is  however  hoped  that  the  support  of 
such  individual  missionaries  as  have  no  private  means 
will  be  separately  and  independently  guaranteed  by 
Y.M.C.A.s  and  Y.W.C.A.s,  by  circles  of  local  friends, 
by  the  Churches  of  which  such  missionaries  may  be 
members,  by  individual  Christians,  or  in  some  other 
way,  so  that  only  the  general  expenses  of  the  mission, 
such  as  passage  and  outfit,  freight,  transport,  station- 
building,  steamer,  printing  and  publication,  schools, 
native  agents,  etc.,  ma}-  fall  on  the  general  funds.- 


^  See  Appendix. 

^  As  those  who  manage  Central  African  missions  linow,  the  support 


'•  ERE  THREN,    PR  A  V  FOR    US  '.  "  485 

We  should  like  to  ask  and  to  urge  every  reader  of 
these  lines  to  breathe  a  heart-felt  prayer — God  bless 
the  Congo-Balolo  Mission  ! 

It  stands  alone  to-day,  the  first  Christian  lighthouse 
among  ten  millions  of  dark  heathen.  How  deeply 
it  needs  Divine  help  !  Only  God  can  open  human 
hearts,  and  shine  into  human  minds  :  He  alone  can 
preserve  life,  and  sustain  a  devoted  spirit ;  can  give 
quick  intelligence  to  acquire  language,  and  tender  love 
and  sympathy  to  win  the  erring  and  superstitious. 
He  alone  can  move  the  hearts  of  men  and  women 
elsewhere,  to  minister  such  things  as  they  need  to 
these  voluntary  exiles  for  Christ,  and  to  multiply 
their  number  by  constant  additions.  All  who  pity 
the  heathen  can  effectually  help  them  by  earnest  and 
continued  prayer.  Let  such  remember  the  Balolo 
among  others,  and  let  them  do  also  what  they  can 
in  other  ways  !  Each  can  do  something,  and  each 
is  responsible  to  our  Lord  and  Master  to  do  what 
he  can  ! 


of  the  missionaries  is  the  smallest  part  of  the  expense  of  the  mission. 
Journe)-s,  voyages,  carriage  of  goods,  building  and  furnishing  houses, 
schools  and  chapels,  printing  books,  inevitable  home  expenses  and 
similar  outlay,  absorb  far  more,  and  are  just  as  essential  to  success. 
Personal  supplies  should  if  possible  come  from  personal  friends.  They 
have  then  that  sweet  aroma  of  home  association  and  Christian  sympathy 
and  affection  which  an  official  remittance  can  never  possess.  The 
correspondence  between  the  friends  at  home  and  the  missionary  in  the 
field  is,  besides,  a  benefit  to  both  parties ;  and  where  effort  is  made  to 
raise  even  a  small  sum,  interest  is  deepened,  intelligent  and  sincere 
prayer  is  evoked,  and  thanksgivings  to  God  abound.  The  home  friends 
feel  themselves  engaged  in  the  actual  work  of  missions  in  a  way  they 
cannot  otherwise  do. 


486        BOMPOLE'S  ADDRESS  AT  EXETER  HALL. 

At  the  farewell  meeting  held  at  Exeter  Hall  for 
the  pioneer  party  of  the  Congo-Balolo  Mission,  March 
26th,  1889,  many  speeches  were  made;  bat  among 
the  rest  there  was  one  of  peculiar  interest.  It  was  a 
little  speech,  most  unsophisticated  and  informal,  yet 
very  earnest  and  true.  It  was  spoken  by  Bompole's 
dark  lips,  and  in  his  clear,  shrill  voice.  Hundreds  of 
listeners  in  the  great  hall  were  hushed  into  silence 
to  hear.  The  lad  had  had  no  idea  of  speaking,  but 
the  words  came  straight  from  his  heart.  They  were 
few  and  ignorant,  framed  into  broken  sentences,  for 
his  vocabulary  is  very  limited,  and  he  is  innocent  of 
all  grammar ;  but  the  case  of  foreign  missions  has 
seldom  been  more  forcibly  put,  even  at  Exeter  Hall. 

What  did  he  say?  It  is  really  hard  to  answer — 
there  is  so  little  to  tell  !  The  whole  address  consisted 
of  perhaps  not  more  than  half  a  dozen  sentences. 
The  little  lad  from  Central  Africa  talked,  in  his 
broken  English,  about  the  Balolo  and  their  ignorance 
of  God,  contrasting  his  country  with  our  country,  his 
people  who  '' zvant  gospd"  with  ours  who  have  it  so 
abundantly,  and  then  asked — "  Isn't  it  a  shame  ? — 
shame  to  keep  gospel  to  yourself?  Not  meant  for 
English  only  !  Isn't  it  a  shame?  My  people  wanting 
gospel !     Isiit  it  f     Isn't  it  a  shame  f  " 

The  childish  voice  with  its  ringing  appeal  and  its 
surprised  reiteration  of  the  strange,  inexplicable  fact, 
above  all  with  its  emphatic  repetition — "Isn't  it? 
Isn't  it  a  shame  ?  "  brought  tears  into  many  eyes  ! 

Ah,  Bompole,  if  it  seems  strange  to  you  that 
we  who  have  the  gospel  should  keep  the  gospel  to 


/S  IT  NOT  A  SHAME. 


487 


ourselves,  how  much  more  strange  must  it  seem  to 
Him  who  laid  down  His  life  to  give  us  a  gospel  to 
carry  to.  the  uttermost  parts  of  the  earth  !  \Miat 
must  our  negligence  appear  to  Hl.M  as  He  looks  on 
these  gospel-surfeited  lands,  and  on  the  gospel-lacking 
millions  of  heathendom  ?  Surely  He  too  may  well 
sa}',  in  wonder,  pit}',  and  sorrow,  ''Is  it  not  a  sJiavieV^ 


SCENK  AT  THE  FCNERAL  OF  EOMPOLE  S  FATHER. 


CHAPTER   V. 

THE    CLIMATE    OF  THE    CONGO, 

AND    THE    CAUSES    OF    THE    MORTALITY  AMONG 
EUROPEANS. 

Popular  prejudice  is  strong  on  the  subject  of  the 
Congo  chmate.  And  this  is  no  marvel.  Has  not 
every  one  who  has  ever  had  to  do  with  it  learned  its 
terrible  nature  by  sad  experience  ?  Do  we  not  all 
know  about  "  Tuckey's  expedition,"  of  which  not  one 
returned  to  tell  the  tale  ? 

Did  not  our  own  mission  lose  twelve  out  of  fifty 
in  seven  years  ?  Has  not  the  sister  mission  been 
even  more  severely  tried  ?  Did  not  Stanley's  second 
expedition  lose  twenty-four  by  death,  and  ninety-two 
by  illness  and  other  causes,  out  of  263  engaged  in  its 
service  during  about  six  years  ?  Can  there  be  any 
question  at  all  that  the  climate  is  a  murderous  one  ? 
Do  not  mercantile  firms  and  mining  companies,  and 
all  West  African  employers  of  labour  count  upon  the 
fatality  of  service  in  these  regions,  and  consequently 
give  high  pay,  and  allow  time  to  be  reckoned  double? 
Prejudice  !  Surely  the  word  is  wholly  inapplicable 
to  the  prevalent  impression  on  this  subject,  at  any 
rate,  and  the  deadly  nature  of  the  climate  of  equa- 
torial Africa  is  an  undeniable  _/?rcY  / 


490  ''INTO   ALL    THE    WORLD." 


Whatever  the  climate,  it  is  the  duty  of  Christians  to 
take  the  gospel  to  the  Congoese.  The  Lord  Jesus  did 
not  say,  "  Go  ye  into  all  the  healthful  climates  of 
the  world,  and  proclaim  the  glad  tidings,"  but,  "  Go 
ye  into  all  the  world."  As  the  history  we  have  re- 
corded shows,  His  servants  have  been  and  arc  willing 
to  obey  His  behest  at  the  risk  and  sacrifice  of  life. 
But  it  would  be  a  great  mistake  to  suppo.se  that  the 
mortality  which  has  been  must  still  be,  or  that  the 
death  rate  need  be  so  high  as  it  was  in  the  early 
years  of  pioneering  work. 

We  must  dwell  a  little  fully  on  this  point,  because 
we  are  anxious  that  hundreds  of  men  and  women — 
yea,  even  thousands — should  respond  to  the  call  of 
God,  and  devote  themselves  to  the  evangelization  of 
.Africa  ;  and  we  realize  that  the  popular  impression 
about  the  climate  is  likely  to  be  a  hindrance  to  many, 
though  not  to  all. 

The  truth,  gathered  now  from  many  years  of  ex- 
perience, seems  to  be  that,  like  other  tropical  climates, 
that  of  Central  Africa  is  undoubtedly  not  suited  to 
the  constitutions  of  the  natives  of  more  temperate 
regions,  and  that  the  health  of  such  wiH  inevitably 
suffer  more  or  less  from  prolonged  residence  there. 
But  a  broad  distinction  must  be  made  between  the 
dangers  inherent  in  the  climate  itself,  and  those 
arising  from  the  uncivilized  state  of  the  country. 
Pioneers  in  savage  lands  must  always  risk  their  lives, 
whatever  the  climate,  and  the  Congo  is  no  exception 
to  this  rule.  The  lives  that  have  been  lost  there  have 
not  half  of  them   been   lost  because  of  the  climate 


STANLEY'S   TESTIMONY.  49i 


This  is  the  point  that  needs  to  be  made  clear,  because 
pioneer  risks  diminish  year  by  year,  and  ultimately 
disappear,  whereas  dangers  from  the  other  source 
are  permanent  in  character,  though  they  may  be 
decreased  and  to  some  extent  neutralized  by  adopt- 
ing the  precautions  taught  by  experience. 

We  shall  give  the  testimony  of  men  who  have 
resided  for  years  on  the  Congo,  as  our  ground  for 
not — even  after  all  our  sad  experience — entertaining 
any  feeling  of  despair  about  the  climate.  Stanley's 
opinion  is  of  special  importance  in  this  matter,  be- 
cause he  has  not  only  been  long  in  Africa  and  on 
the  Congo  himself  for  many  years,  but  he  has  had 
charge  of  large  numbers  of  other  Europeans  there.  \\'e 
shall  give,  not  merely  his  judgment  as  to  the  climate, 
but  the  grounds  of  it,  that  others  may  be  able  to  judge 
for  themselves.  He  considers  the  climate  in  itself 
no  worse  and  no  better  than  other  tropical  and  equa- 
torial regions,  very  dangerous  to  Europeans  without 
the  needful  precautions — fairly  safe  and  healthful  when 
these  are  taken  ;  never  salubrious  to  white  men — 
always  requiring  a  periodical  return  to  Europe  for 
rest  and  recuperation — but  not  only  safely  endurable., 
but  even  enjoyable  under  favourable  circumstances,  and 
with  proper  care. 

"  The  world  has  heard  enough,"  he  says,  "  of  the 
old  wives'  tales  of  'horrible  climate'  and  all  such 
fancies  of  timorous  and  feeble  minds.  Hundreds  of 
raw  European  youths  have  been  launched  into  the 
heart  of  the  '  murderous  continent,'  and  the  farther 
inland    we    sent    them,  the    more  they    improved  in 


492  EXPEIUENTIA   DOCET. 


physique.  It  matters  not  now  what  may  be  said  by 
interested  traders,  selfish  pubhcists,  narrow-minded, 
grasping  merchants,  or  discharged  agents,  about  the 
dangers  of  this  cHmate.  We  have  tested  it  most 
tJioroughly  for  six  years.  There  is  less  sickness  by  half 
in  the  Congo  basin,  even  in  its  present  unprepared 
condition,  than  there  is  in  the  bottom  lands  of  Arkansas, 
a  state  which  has  doubled  its  population  during  the  last 
tivoity-five  years!' 

On  his  treatise  on  the  cHmatic  causes  of  sickness 
Mr.  Stanley  says  : 

"  It  should  be  begun  with  a  confession  by  the 
author  of  having  himself  lived  ignorantly  for  many 
years  in  Africa,  just  as  there  are  men  along  the 
African  coast,  and  up  the  Oil  Rivers,  the  Niger,  and 
the  Congo,  living  at  this  minute  in  the  densest  igno- 
rance of  the  dangers  around  them,  and  of  the  simple 
philosophy  of  living  healthily  and  well  amid  these 
dangers.     .     .     . 

"  I  have  suffered  during  my  long  African  experi- 
ence over  120  fevers  great  and  slight,  and  I  may  have 
suffered  over  one  hundred  before  suspecting  that 
many  of  these  were  preventible  in  other  ways  than  by 
taking  (|uinine  and  its  preliminary  remedies,  or  that 
there  were  other  causes  productive  of  fever  besides 
malaria  and  miasma.  The  last  six  years  in  Africa 
have  enlarged  my  experience  greatly.  Added  to  my 
own  personal  sufferings,  have  been  those  of  about 
260  Europeans,  as  ignorant  as  myself  of  the  causes 
of  these  fevers.  The  sick  lists  of  various  stations 
have  been  inspected  by  me,  and  the  inspection  has 


DRAUGHT  AS  A    FEVER   CAUSE.  493 


created  a  desire  to  know  why  fevers  and  sickness 
were  more  frequent  at  one  place  than  another." 

From  a  careful  analysis  of  all  the  data  bearing  on 
the  subject,  Mr.  Stanley  attributes  the  sickness  and 
death  which  undoubtedly  exist  on  the  Congo  mainly 
to  three  causes  —  all  happily  avoidable — draughts, 
malaria,  and  drink. 

I.  Draughts. — "While  I  do  not  deny  that  there 
is  a  certain  quantity  of  miasm  in  the  air,  my  belief 
is  that  it  zvas  the  least  of  the  evils  from  which  the 
members  of  our  expedition  suffered.  At  Banana  and 
Boma,  in  the  midst  of  marshy  exhalations,  situate 
almost  at  the  water's  edge,  the  Europeans  have  en- 
joyed better  health  than  our  people  at  Vivi,  on  that 
singular  rock  platform  340  feet  above  the  river.  At 
Kinchassa,  just  ten  feet  above  high  water,  better 
health  has  been  enjoyed  (indeed  almost  complete 
immunity  from  sickness)  than  at  Leopoldville,  five 
miles  belovv^,  situate  eighty-three  feet  above  the  river. 
At  Equator  Station,  with  a  river  only  five  feet  below 
its  foundations,  creeks  sable  as  ink  surrounding  it,  the 
ground  unctuous  with  black  fat  alluvium,  Europeans 
enjoy  better  health  than  at  Manyanga,  240  feet  above 
the  river,  and  1,100  feet  above  the  sea.  Fourteen 
miles  away  from  Manyanga,  and  eight  miles  removed 
from  the  river,  we  have  a  station  on  the  plain  of 
Ngombi,  1,500  feet  above  the  sea,  where  our  people 
have  enjoyed  better  health  than  at  Manyanga  Hill, 
150  yards  in  diameter,  and  with  ravines  200  feet 
deep  around  it  on  all  sides,  except  at  a  narrow  neck 
thirty    yards    across.      Banana    Point,    six    degrees 


494  INDIAN  EXPERIENCE   OF  CHILL. 

below  the  equator,  only  five  feet  above  the  brackish 
water  of  its  creek,  is  proved  to  be  much  healthier  than 
Sierra  Leone,  over  eight  degrees  more  to  the  north, 
which  has  been  called  "  the  white  man's  grave." 
This  place  is  surrounded  b\'  Lion  Hill  and  its  neigh- 
bouring hills,  between  the  gaps  of  which  the  sea 
breezes  sweep  suddenly,  chilling  the  bodies  who  are 
enveloped  in  the  close  heat  engendered  b)'  its  bowl- 
like position." 

Stanley  is  not  alone  in  giving  such  prominence  to 
the  dangerous  effects  of  sudden  alternations  of  tem- 
perature produced  by  currents  of  cool  air.  Some 
years  ago  we  sent  out  to  our  missionaries  on  the 
Congo  an  elaborate  treatise  on  tropical  fevers  written 
b}"  an  Indian  military  medical  man,  who  had  large 
and  varied  experience  with  the  British  troops  in  all 
parts  of  India.  His  conclusion  was  that  the  one  great 
cause  of  fever  and  of  mortality  was  not  malaria,  but 
simply  cliill.  When  we  requested  the  late  beloved 
Henry  Craven,  who  was  then  at  home  on  furlough,  to 
examine  the  work,  saying  at  the  same  time  what  its 
theory  was,  he  took  it  with  a  smile  of  pity  and 
incrcdulit}',  and  said,  "  Poor  man  !  if  he  doesn't  believe 
in  malaria,  he  knows  nothing  about  African  fever,  at 
an)'  rate."  A  few  days  later  he  returned  the  volume 
to  us,  saying  earnestly  :  "It  is  very  strange,  but 
positively  I  believe  the  author  is  right  !  I  have 
reviewed  all  our  experience  in  the  light  of  his  remarks, 
and  every  incident  of  it  seems  to  fall  in  with  his 
theor}'."  Miasma  and  malaria,  or  bad  air,  no  doubt 
play  their  part  in  producing  illness,  in   Africa  as  well 


HILL  STATIONS    VERSUS  LOWLYING  LAND.       495 


as  in  England.  Putrid  exhalations  are  unwholesome 
all  the  world  over,  but  facts  prove  that  too  vmcJi  lias 
been  laid  to  their  charge  in  the  case  of  the  Congo  basin. 

When  he  originally  selected  his  sites  for  stations, 
and  planted  them,  Stanley  was  above  all  anxious  to 
avoid  the  supposed  malaria  arising  from  decaying 
vegetation.  Where  it  was  possible  therefore  he  chose 
high  ground,  either  naturally  barren  or  artificially 
cleared,  well  drained,  and  well  exposed  to  the  refresh- 
ing sea  breezes.  Such  sites  were  not  however  always 
available.  On  the  Pool,  and  on  the  upper  river 
especially,  some  of  the  stations  Jiad  to  be  close  to  the 
water's  edge,  and  only  a  few  feet  above  it. 

A  comparison  of  the  sick  lists  of  the  different 
stations  revealed  after  a  time  the  surprising  fact  that  the 
breezy  hill  stations  were  far  more  fever-stricken  than 
the  low-lying  river-side  ones  where  miasmic  influences 
might  be  supposed  to  abound  !  Healthy  men  fresh 
from  Europe  sickened  and  died  at  Vivi,  at  Manyanga, 
and  at  Leopoldville  Jiill  stations,  while  sickly  invalids 
grew  strong  and  hearty  at  Kinchassa,  Lukolela,  and 
Equator  stations,  all  of  them  "  only  ten  feet  above 
high  water,  with  perhaps  hundreds  of  square  miles  of 
black  fat  loam  and  damp  forest  on  three  sides  of 
them."  It  proved  that  the  most  breezy  and  elevated 
stations  were  the  worst,  and  the  most  malarious  the 
most  healthy  ! 

There  was  evidently  some  lesson  to  be  learned  from 
these  strange  facts,  and  not  considering  himself  either 
too  wise  or  too  old  to  learn,  Stanley  set  himself  to 
study  the  problem. 


TYPICAL    CASE   OF  CHILL  FEVER.  497 

What  were  respectively  the  pecuHarities  of  the 
heathy  and  the  unhealthy  stations  ?  Setting  aside  the 
extraneous  cases  clearly  attributable  to  intemperance, 
imprudence,  and  accident,  there  remained  a  large 
number  of  deaths  attributable  apparently  to  local 
causes  only.  The  more  he  reflected  the  more  he  saw 
that  the  fatal  fact  was,  exposure  to  cold  currents  of  air 
blowing  up  the  canon  of  the  Congo  from  the  sea. 
The  stations  free  from  tJiis  peculiarity  were  com- 
paratively free  from  sickness ;  the  stations  marked 
by  it  were  sickly  in  proportion  to  the  severity  of  this 
cause. 

He  gives  a  typical  case  of  a  young  man  stricken 
down  by  fever  immediately  on  arrival.  Unprepared 
by  wise  counsel,  he  arrives  at  Banana,  feels  the  heat 
oppressive,  perspires  freely  till  his  garments  are  wet, 
sits  down  in  the  cool,  shady  verandah,  ivithout  changino 
theiJi,  accepts  a  glass  of  wine  and  a  good  dinner, 
lingers  outside  to  enjoy  the  evening  breeze  from  the 
sea,  and  then  retires  to  rest.  In  the  morning  he  feels 
unwell,  fever  develops,  and  not  unfrequently  ends 
fatally. 

This  case  is  adduced  as  an  instance  of  death  from 
chill,  "the  fever  was  caught  by  sitting  in  his  wet 
flannels  in  the  cold  night  air."  As  Mr.  Stanley 
writes : 

"  It  must  be  remembered  however,  that  if  a  man  in 
a  violent  state  of  perspiration  subjects  his  unprepared 
person  to  a  cold  draught  of  wind  while  in  such  a  con- 
dition, the  fact  that  he  is  temperate  in  his  life  and 
habits,  and  has  always  dieted  his  body  wisely,  richly 

C.  A.  32 


498  TYiT  IT  AT  HOME. 


and  nobly,  will  not  save  him  in  Africa  from  a  fever, 
any  more  than  that  it  will  save  him  in  northern 
Europe  from  a  cold  and  its  tedious  pains.  Neither 
*  beef  and  beer,'  nor  '  beef  and  brand}-,'  nor  all  the 
drugs  of  the  pharmacopceia  will  save  him.  Or,  if  the 
position  of  his  house  is  so  unwisely  chosen  that  his 
body  is  perpetually  subjected  to  violent  changes  of 
temperature,  one  minute  in  a  state  of  profuse  per- 
spiration, and  the  other  minute  out-doors  without 
additional  clothing,  exposed  to  a  chilling  blast  that 
closes  the  pores,  and  chills  the  damp  flannel  pressed 
against  the  body,  his  perfect  diet  will  not  avail  him. 
My  wonder  is,  not  that  so  many  have  returned  to 
Europe  disheartened  at  the  weakness  of  the  resistance 
their  constitutions  were  able  to  offer  to  the  vicissitudes 
to  which  their  ignorance  subjected  their  own  persons 
but  at  the  fact  that  there  are  still  so  many  who 
bravely  endured  all.  And  now  that  so  much  has 
been  cleared  of  what  was  before  so  mysterious  to  us 
in  Africa,  let  us  try  how  it  would  answer  in  well- 
drained  and  well-fed  London,  or  any  other  English 
city.  Let  us  heat  our  sitting-room,  until  the  under- 
clothing gets  thoroughly  soaked  with  perspiration, 
then  walk  outdoors  to  a  street  corner,  and  stand  on 
a  windy  day  without  additional  clothing,  and  wait 
till  next  morning  for  the  result  ;  or  go  to  a  London 
ball,  become  heated  with  dancing  in  a  crowded  room, 
then  walk  home  in  the  same  dress,  and  tell  me 
honestly  if,  in  addition  to  months  of  this  experience 
you  add  months  of  poor  diet,  bad  cooking,  and  other 
indescribable  discomforts,  you  wonder  that  the  African 


COOL  MONTHS  ARE  FEVER  MONTHS.  499 

continent  has  an  evil  character,  and  that  so  many 
unfortunate  pioneers  of  trade  and  exploration  have 
left  their  bones  in  its  earth  ! 

"  Added  to  the  victims  of  these  cold  draughts,  zvhich 
greatly  outminiber  all  others,  were  those  whose  consti- 
tutions failed  by  living  in  malarious  hollows,  followed 
by  those  who  led  impure  and  intemperate  lives  ;  next, 
by  those  who  required  more  nourishing  pabula  than 
our  present  circumstances  would  enable  us  to  supply  ; 
and,  lastly,  those  who  fell  through  accidents,  caused 
by  carelessness,  indolence  of  mind,  unreasoning  rash- 
ness, natural  helplessness,  and  constitutional  physical 
weakness." 

A  further  confirmation  of  the  theory  that  cold 
chills  are  the  most  fruitful  cause  of  fevers  is  found  in 
the  fact  that  the  cool  months  of  May,  June,  and  July 
are  the  most  frintfnl  in  illness  and  death.  Two  fatal 
cases  occurred  in  the  expedition,  both  at  this  season, 
during  the  first  sixteen  months  of  "  unexampled 
labour  and  privations,"  and  both  Stanle)^'s  own 
dangerous  fevers  were  at  the  same  time  of  the 
year. 

2.  Malaria.— But  if  situations  exposed  to  currents 
of  cold  air  are  the  most  dangerous  of  all,  those  so 
surrounded  with  higher  land  as  to  have  little  or  no 
ventilation  at  all  are  from  other  causes  almost  equally 
dangerous.  A  free,  general,  equal  circulation  of  air 
being  the  thing  to  be  desired,  the  two  extremes  are 
to  be  avoided,  a  draughty  situation  is  bad,  and  a  close 
one  not  much  better.  The  white  man  falls  before  the 
giant  destroyer  Chill,  in  the  one  case,  and  almost  as 


Soo  TROPICAL  MALARIA. 


surely  before  his  more  stealthy  compeer  Malaria,  in 
the  other. 

This  malaria  however  is  no  mysterious,  invisible 
influence  peailiar  to  Africa  and  the  tropics.  It  is  a 
common  foe  that  all  must  watch  and  fight  against, 
whether  in  Europe,  Asia,  Africa,  or  America,  whether 
in  the  palace  or  in  the  cottage,  in  the  town  or  in  the 
country.  It  is  simply  bad  air.  No  matter  where  or 
from  what  cause,  if  men  inhale  poison,  they  will  suffer 
from  it  just  as  surely  as  if  they  imbibe  it.  If  our 
dear  missionary  friends  can  in  their  immediate  and 
habitual  surroundings  manage  to  guard  against  these 
two  things,  frequent  exposure  to  chills,  and  the  con- 
stant presence  of  bad  air,  they  will,  according  to 
Stanley's  account,  be  fairly  safe  on  the  Congo.  As 
an  instance  of  a  station  badly  placed  in  the  latter 
respect  Mr.  Stanley  adduces  the  old  mission  house 
at  Banza  Mantcka.     He  says  : 

"I  will  take  Banza  Manteka,  a  station  of  the  pious,  hard-striving, 
long-enduring  missioncrs  belonging  to  the  Livingstone  Inland  Mission, 
as  a  type  of  another  cause  of  sickness.  It  is  situate  in  a  hollow  like  a 
howl  deep  sunk  in  the  bosom  of  enfolding  hills.  Perhaps  from  one  hill 
crest  to  the  opposing  hill  crest  a  line  drawn  exactly  bisecting  the  station 
would  be  a  mile  and  a  quarter  in  length.  One  side  however,  that 
opposite  to  the  prevailing  w'inds,  is  open,  having  access  to  the  valley  of 
Ntombo  Lukuti.  Here,  one  would  say,  is  a  snug  nest  where  the  howl- 
ing winds  cannot  chill  to  death  the  pale-faced  European,  and  to  make 
it  still  more  snug  and  cosy  there  are  gardens  of  bananas  and  papaw 
trees,  whose  beautiful  fronds  and  leafage  almost  hide  the  dwelling  of 
these  God-serving  men. 

"  Now  in  the  high,  exposed  places  we  consider  the  rainy  season  the 
healthiest.  Some  have  supposed  it  to  be  so  from  the  greater  clearness 
and  purity  of  the  atmosphere,  whereas  in  fact  it  is  only  because  the 
cold  winds  are  hushed,  and  we  enjoy  a  uniform  warmth.     But  if  this 


SOME   OF  THE   HILLY   AND  WOODY   ];ANKS   OF  THE   CONGO. 


season  is  the  healthiest  at  Vivi  and  oth.er  stations  in  the  Congo  caiion, 
it  is  the  most  unhealthy  in  hollows  like  these  of  Banza  Manteka  and 
Lukunga  stations. 

"  After  a  rainfall  the  atmosphere  is  clear  and  the  sky  is  of  an  Italian 
hue.  During  this  temporary  clearness  the  atmosphei^e  offers  the  least 
obstruction  to  the  direct  power  of  the  sun.  If  powerful  on  the  hill  tops, 
it  must  be  of  baking  heat  in  these  bowl-like  hollows.  It  is  shot  forth 
relentlessly  through  the  thickest  cork  helmet.  If  an  umbrella  is  used, 
while  increasing  the  safety  from  danger  above,  it  only  causes  a  more 
profuse  perspiration,  by  the  confinement  to  the  body  of  the  ascending 
cloud  of  warm  vapour  which  surges  upward  from  the  damp  earth,  and 
encompasses  the  person  at  every  step.  According  to  the  nature  and 
quality  of  the  inorganic  bodies  in  the  neighbourhood,  it  either  rises  in 
denser  or  in  a  more  heated  volume.  If  the  neighbourhood  is  rocky,  the 
heat  blazes  in  the  face  almost  insufferably,  and  bakes  the  clothing  ;  if 
of  wet  grass,  or  damp  earth,  there  is  an  excess  of  moist,  penetrating 
warmth,  which  soon  deluges  one  with  perspiration.  The  top  of  that 
swathe  of  dead  grass  is  nearly  dry  ;  but  put  forth  your  hand,  and  i^Iace 
it  undcrtieatli,  and  the  astonishing  warmth  of  the  moisture,  whose  tem- 

501 


502  A  BEAUTIFUL  BUT  FATAL   "FA/^C" 

perature  is  like  that  of  an  oven,  will  illustrate  the  means  by  which 
Viipid  decay  is  caused  in  these  lands.  Have  you  ever  tested  the  heat  to 
be  found  in  your  own  dunir-heap  at  home  even  in  mid  winter  ?  If  you 
inhaled  the  stifling  atmosphere  long  you  suffered  what  no  constitution 
could  endure  with  impunity. 

"  Well  then  at  Banza  Manteka  station,  the  hot,  muggy,  steamy 
atmosphere  rising  up  with  the  clouds  of  moisture,  and  bearing  the 
deleterious  influences  upward  in  a  continued,  undrifted  volume,  from 
old  decaying  grass  at  the  base  of  the  green  shoots,  or  from  decaying 
leaves  gathered  at  the  Ijase  of  the  beautiful  bananas,  is  more 
pernicious  to  health  than  life  on  a  dttn^-hill  in  an  nnjloored  house 
in  Europe,  with  a  great  hot  stove  inside,  would  be  !  Such  is  the  air 
inlialod  in  the  sickly  hollow  of  Banza  Manteka.  A  young  military  officer 
built  a  native  cabin  in  the  Nkusu  ravine,  near  Vivi,  in  the  middle 
of  what  he  romantically  called  a  pan.  He  had  caused  avenues, 
'Avenue  de  Valcke,'  'Avenue  Stanley,'  'Avenue  de  Bruxelles,' 
to  be  formed  in  this  pare,  and  to  enjoy  the  romance  thoroughly  he 
dwelt  in  his  native  chalet.  Poor  fellow  !  he  was  soon  taken  ill  of  a 
bilious  fever,  and  he  died  about  sixty  hours  later.  This  trough  of  the 
Nkusu  was  still  more  confined  than  the  bowl  of  Banza  Manteka. 

"  On  open  ground  during  the  rainy  season  the  air  diffuses  this 
pestilential  vapour,  heavy  with  putrefaction  and  decay.  Movement  over 
it  is  not  only  a  relief  from  the  dangerous  heat  from  above,  but  from  that 
which  when  a  person  stands  still  rises  up  in  a  thin,  invisible  column. 

"  But  some  one  hard  to  satisfy,  and  prone  to  doubt,  remarks  that  on 
open  highland  there  is  sickness  also.  Vou  cannot  call  '  open  high- 
land '  a  plr.teau  or  plain  where  the  face  of  it  is  uncleared  of  its  forests 
of  tall  grass  and  obstructing  sciiib.  The  grass  of  the  tropics  is  several 
feet  higher  than  the  height  of  a  man's  person  ;  the  more  confined  the 
cleared  area  in  which  you  stand  is,  the  more  unhealthy  is  your  position. 
Begin  at  the  narrow  foot-path,  with  the  grass  from  two  to  five  feet 
above  your  head,  with  a  hot  sun  glowing  burningly  on  the  earth,  and 
your  position  will  be  unendurable  if  you  stand  still  long.  Advance  into 
a  small  open  marketplace  in  its  midst,  and  relief  is  instantly  felt.  But 
suppose  you  had  an  area  of  a  few  square  miles  of  plain  or  gently  rolling 
land,  without  swamp,  lagoon,  or  stagnant  body  of  water,  that  the  dead 
grass  was  clean  cleared  off,  and  only  vegetables  and  grain  growing  ; 
that  your  two-storeyed  house  was  prepared  with  windows  to  admit  light, 
and  could  likewise  admit  the  cool  air  without  admitting  draught,  and 
that  the  roof  projected  broad  and  ample  from  its  walls,  your  consequent 
good  health  would  then  teach  you  and  teach  the  coming  generations 


INSTINCTIVE    WISDOM. 


503 


AM 


that  a  tropic  home  can  be  made  as  healthy  and  as  comfortable  as  any 
home  in  yoitr  oion  dear  native  la?id, 

"  Observe  the  tiative  c\\?.iom,  and  let  the  dark  aborigine  teach  you 
by  his  example,  while  you,  as  one  would  expect  from  your  education, 
improve  your  surroundings,  after  the  elementary  lesson  derived  from 
his  example  has  been  well  acquired. 

"  So  long  however  as  choice  was  permitted  to  them,  we  observe 
that  they  have  elected  to  leave  the  river  and  its  banks,  and  to  build  oti 
the  high  and  comparatively  open  plateau  and  plain. 

"At  Banza  Manteka  itself,  for  instance,  we  have  an  illustration  ot 
the  manner  in  which  the  natives  have  rejected  the  unhealthy  hollow, 
presenting  a  curious  contrast  to  the  white  man's  choice.  All  around  and 
within  view  from  the  mission  house  are  the  groves  under  which  nestle 
the  native  villages.  There  is  only  one  native  village  ivithin  the  hollow. 
The  white  man's  house  is  almost  at  the  bottom,  as  though  he  might  be  in 
possession  of  a  charm  to  drive  away  the  foul  air  and  the  gases  exhaling 
from  that  close  inland  basin." 

There  would  seem  to  be  no  question,  from  the  fore- 
going statements,  that  the  original  house  at  Banza 


504  DRINK  AS  A   FEVER-CAUSE. 


Mantcki  was  placed  too  low.  Vet  its  record  was 
not  bad.  It  was  the  third  station  founded  by  the 
mission,  and  was  commenced  early  in  1879,  about 
the  same  time  that  Mr.  Stanley  was  erecting  Vivi. 
Two  deaths,  as  we  have  seen,  occurred  on  this  spot, 
but  both  were  clearly  traceable  to  accidental  circum- 
stances, and  cannot  fairly  be  charged  to  the  situation. 
A  new  house  on  a  higher  site  was  subsequently  built, 
and  the  station  has  been  rather  an  exceptionally 
healthy  one.  If  it  is  possible  to  live  and  labour  at  all 
in  a  situation  so  decidedly  unsuitable  as  Mr.  Stanley 
describes  this  hollow  among  the  hills  to  be,  how  much 
more  so  where  healthful  sites  have  been  chosen,  and 
healthful  houses  constructed  ? 

3.  We  turn  now  to  the  iJiird  great  cause  of  the 
mortality  which  has  given  the  Central  African  climate 
so  bad  a  reputation.  The  first,  as  we  have  seen,  is 
draught ;  the  second,  malaria;  and  the  third  is  drink. 
Most  missionaries  being  either  total  abstainers  or 
temperance  men,  this  is  of  course  not  a  cause  of 
7nissionary  sickness  and  death  ;  but  it  is  well  that 
all  should  know  Jioio  I'cry  large  a  proportion  of  the 
fatal  cases  among  others  on  the  Congo  and  on  the  West 
Coast  of  Africa  generally  are  attributable  to  this  one 
thing.  Mr.  Stanley  is  not  himself  a  total  abstainer, 
but  he  writes  : 

"  The  evils  of  brandy  and  soda  in  India  need  only 
to  be  remembered  to  prove  hozu  pernicious  is  the  sui- 
cidal habit  of  indulgence  in  drinking  alcoholic  liquors 
in  hot  climates.     .     .     . 

"With  us  on   the   Congo,  where  men   must  work 


ALCOHOL  DANGEROUS  IN  THE    TROPICS.         505 

and  bodily  movement  is  compulsory,  the  very  atmo- 
sphere seems  to  be  fatall}'  hostile  to  the  physique  of 
men  who  pin  their  faith  on  whisky,  gin,  and  brandy. 
TJiey  invariably  succumb,  and  are  a  constant  source  of 
expense.  Even  if  they  are  not  finally  buried  out  of 
sight  and  out  of  memory,  they  are  utterly  helpless, 
diseases  germinate  with  frightful  rapidity,  symptoms 
of  insanity  are  numerous,  and  with  mind  vacant  and 
body  semi-paralysed  they  are  hurried  homewards,  to 
make  room  for  more  valuable  substitutes,  lest  they 
draw  down  a  few  more  objurgatory  phrases  on  Africa, 
which  should  be  justly  applied  to  themselves.     .     .     . 

"  I  solemnly  warn  men,  that  to  drink  any  tvine^ 
liquor,  or  other  intoxicating  beverage  in  a  tropical 
country  during  the  day,  except  when  administered 
under  the  direction  of  medical  authority,  is  the  height 
of  folly,  that  it  is  dangerous  to  sound  health,  and 
consequently  to  all  bodily  enjoyment.     .     .     . 

"  From  the  moment  of  arrival  the  body  undergoes 
a  new  experience,  and  a  wise  man  will  begin  to  govern 
his  appetite  and  his  conduct  accordingly.  The  head 
that  was  covered  with  a  proud  luxuriance  of  flowing 
locks,  or  bristled  bushy  and  thick,  must  be  shorn 
close.  The  body  must  be  divested  of  that  wind  and 
rain  proof  armour  of  linen  and  wool,  in  which  it  was 
accustomed  to  be  encased  in  high  latitudes,  and  must 
assume,  if  ease  and  pleasure  are  preferable  to  dis- 
comfort, garments  of  soft,  loose,  light  flannels.  The 
head-covering  which  London  and  Paris  patronise 
must  give  place  to  the  helmet  and  puggaree,  or  to  a 
well-ventilated  light  cap  with  curtain  ;  and  as  those 


KI.XCliA.SSA   STATION 


495-J 


decorous    externals   of    Europe,   with    their    sombre 

colouring  and  cumbrous  thickness  must  yield  to  the 

more  graceful  and  airy  flannel  of  the  tropics,  so  the 

appetite,   the   extravagant   power   of    digestion,    the 

seemingly  uncontrollable  and  ever  famished  lust  for 

animal  food,  and  the  distempered  greed  for  ardent 

drinks  must  be  governed  by  an  absolutely  neiv  regime. 

Any  liquid  that  is  exciting,  or,  as  others  may  choose 

to  term   it,  exhilarating  or  inspiring,  the  unseasoned 

506 


DANGER   OF  THE   ''PETIT   VERRE:'  507 

European  must  avoid  during  daylight  ;  whether  it 
be  in  the  guise  of  the  commonly  believed  innocuous 
lager,  mild  pilsen,  watery  claret,  vin  ordinaire,  or  any 
other  innocent  wine  or  beer.  Otherwise  the  slightest 
indiscretion,  the  least  unusual  effort  or  spasmodic 
industry,  may  in  one  short  hour  prove  fatal.  It  is  my 
duty  not  to  pander  to  a  depraved  taste,  nor  to  be 
too  nice  in  offending  it.  I  am  compelled  to  speak 
strongly  by  our  losses,  by  my  own  grief  in  remember- 
ing the  young,  the  strong,  and  the  brave,  who  have 
slain  themselves  through  their  own  ignorance. 

"  *  Un  petit  verre  de  cognac,  a  glass  of  small  beer, 
what  can  they  matter?'  ask  the  inexperienced 
pleadingly. 

"  To  me  personally  nothing !  To  you  a  sudden 
death,  perhaps  a  coup-de-soleil.  A  frantic  and  insen- 
sate rush  to  the  hot  sun  out  of  the  cool  shade,  an  im- 
prudent exposure,  may  be  followed  by  a  bilious  fever 
of  who  knows  what  severity,  or  a  rheumatic  fever  that 
will  lay  you  prostrate  for  weeks,  perhaps  utterly  unfit- 
ting you  for  your  work  and  future  usefulness.  You 
were  inspired  by  that  '  petit  verre  '  of  cognac,  which 
had  you  not  taken  you  might  have  been  more  deli- 
berate in  your  movements,  and  more  prudent  than 
to  needlessly  exert  yourself  in  the  presence  of  an 
enemy  so  formidable  as  is  the  tropic  sun  to  a  white 
man's  head  when  sensitised  by  the  fumes  of  cognac. 

"  Should  )'0U  recover,  you  will  blame  Africa.  Africa 
is  cruel !  Africa  is  murderous  !  Africa  means  death 
to  the  European  !  And  your  stupid,  unreflecting 
friends  in  Europe  will  echo  the  cry !     Simply  because 


So8  TOTAL  ABSTINENCE  ON  THE  CONGO. 


a  weakling  like  you  could  not  resist  your  '  petit  vcrrc  ' 
at  mid-day,  must  all  this  continent  be  subjected  to 
the  scourge  of  your  vituperative  powers." 

From  the  foregoing  extracts  it  is  clear  that  Mr. 
Stanley's  opinion  is  as  strong  as  it  well  can  be  that 
the  habitual  and  free  use  of  alcoholic  liquors  is,  in 
a  tropical  country,  dangerous  to  health  and  fatal  to 
energy  and  usefulness.  lie  testifies  to  the  fact  that 
not  only  in  connexion  with  his  own  expedition,  but 
as  a  general  rule  applicable  to  all  Europeans  on  the 
West  Coast,  a  veyy  large  proportion  of  the  fatal  illness 
commonly  attributed  to  the  climate  is  really  to  be  set 
down  to  the  drink.  That  hard  drinkers  do  sometimes 
live  on  to  boast  that  their  continued  existence  is 
owing  to  their  use  of  wine  and  spirits,  he  attributes  to 
the  fact  that  such  men  do  no  work,  and  cannot  there- 
fore be  said  to  live,  so  much  as  to  vegetate.  For  men 
and  women  who  mean  to  do  any  good  with  their 
lives,  he  considers  total  abstinence  by  day,  and  only 
the  most  moderate  indulgence  in  light  wine  in  the 
evening,  essential. 

Our  own  experience  abundantly  confirms  these  con- 
clusions as  far  as  they  go  ;  and  leads  us  still  further. 
We  feel  persuaded  that  even  the  moderate  use  sanc- 
tioned by  Mr.  Stanley  is  not  necessary.  Men  can 
live  and  labour  just  as  well  without  it  ;  as  witness 
the  many  missionaries  who  have  worked  hard  on 
the  Congo  for  from  two  to  seven  j'cars  as  total 
abstainers. 

The  late  Henry  Craven  assured  us  that  he  felt  the 
better  for  refraining  even  from  the  native  palm-wine 


I 


DAILY  DOSES   OF  POISON.  509 

when  fermented,  and  that  he  had  come  to  the  con- 
clusion never  to  take  it  except  when  fresh,  in  which 
condition  it  is  absolutely  non-alcoholic.  Alcohol  is  a 
poison,  and  a  very  dangerous  one  ;  an  overdose  will 
produce  death  itself :  and  doses  short  of  fatal  produce 
paralysis  in  various  degrees,  from  that  slight  paralysis 
of  the  moral  and  intellectual  faculties  which  is  per- 
ceptible only  as  "  soothing  "  or  "  stimulative,"  to  that 
greater  degree  of  the  same  which  causes  unseemly 
exhilaration  and  foolish  talking,  right  on  through 
all  the  various  shades  of  intoxication  to  that  final 
comatose,  apoplectic,  and  dangerous  state  described 
as  "dead  drunk,"  in  which  the  entire  body  is  as  com- 
pletely paralysed  as  if  it  were  a  corpse,  while  the 
moral  and  intellectual  faculties  are,  for  the  time, 
totally  suspended.  Now  some  men  may  be  strong 
enough  to  bear  very  slight  daily  doses  of  poison, 
though  we  question  if  even  they  do  it  with  perfect 
impunity — health  may  be  injured,  unconsciously,  im- 
perceptibly, yet  really  :  but  if  there  is  no  need  to 
touch  it,  surely  the  part  of  wisdom  would  be  to  let  it 
alone,  especially  in  a  country  where  the  slightest  risk 
to  health  may  be  attended  with  fatal  consequences. 
Every  possible  danger  should  be  avoided  by  those 
who  have  their  mission  at  heart,  for  the  work's  sake, 
if  not  for  their  own.^ 


^  The  use  of  stimulants  as  a  medicine  in  severe  illness  is  of  course 
as  justifiable  as  the  use  of  any  other  poison  in  this  way.  In  the  com- 
plete collapse-stage  of  fevers  nothing  can  take  the  place  of  brandy,  and 
every  resident  in  Central  Africa  should  have  some  in  his  medicine  chest. 
But  the  use  of  stimulants  as  a  daily  beverage  is  quite  another  matter. 


510  ''FOLLIES  LEADING   TO  SELF-DESTRUCTION." 

During  the  seven  years  from  1879- 1885  about  250 
white  men  of  different  nationahties  arrived  out  on  the 
Congo,  in  connexion  with  the  African  International 
Association.  Of  these  five  were  killed  by  accidents, 
and  twenty-four  died.     Mr.  Stanley  writes  : 

The  twenty-four  deaths  were  in  many  cases  avoidable.  Some  have 
been  the  result  of  downright  madness.  There  are  few  that  I  know  of 
which  might  not  serve  to  point  a  moral  and  a  lesson.  Not  many  of 
these  deaths  can  be  excused  on  the  ground  of  old  age  or  original  phy- 
sical weakness.  They  were  all  men  in  the  prime  of  life  ;  fatigue,  want 
of  proper  nourishment,  exposure  to  the  sun,  inveterate  intemperance  in 
a  few  cases  ;  in  conjunction  with  the  ignorance  of  conduct  of  life  in  the 
tropics  which  I  strive  to  combat,  and  which  is  pardonable  since  we 
have  all  been  guilty,  were  the  causes  which  led  to  this  mortality.  I 
do  not  wish  to  offend  the  susceptibilities  of  sorrowing  relatives,  there- 
fore I  will  not  name  the  rash  unfortunates,  but  my  first  duty  is  to 
the  living,  whom  I  must  warn  against  committing  follies  leading  to 
self-destruction. 

A  European  proficient  in  his  duties,  willing  and  devoted,  after  nearly 
two  years'  successful  work  with  the  expedition,  during  which  he  enjoys 
unusually  good  health,  returns  from  a  voyage  up  river,  and  sud- 
denly falls  sick  of  a  mild  form  of  dysenterj'.  In  a  few  days  it  is  cured, 
when  through  some  strange  cause  he  has  a  relapse.  Two  medical  men 
use  their  utmost  endeavours  to  cure  him,  the  best  attention  during 
many  weeks  is  given  to  him,  and  he  recovers  strength  enough  to  be 
able  to  be  conveyed  to  the  coast.  He  arrives  in  a  more  hopeful  con- 
dition, and  after  a  few  days'  stay  at  the  hospital  is  declared  fit  to  pro- 
ceed to  Europe.  That  same  evening,  in  the  absence  of  the  nurse,  he 
barters  a  coat  for  a  bottle  oj  gin,  drinks  it,  and  tivelve  hours  aflem'ards 
he  is  buried  at  Boma. 

Another,  by  being  kept  up  river,  serves  three  years  admirably,  is  sent 
home  with  honours,  and  returns  after  awhile  for  another  period  of 
ser\-ice  at  higher  pay.  But  meantime  some  unaccountable  thirst  for 
ardent  spirits  has  possessed  him,  and  a  few  days  after  his  arrival  he  falls 
oi'erboard  into  the  river  while  intoxicated,  and  is  drowned. 

Another  appears  on  the  Congo  with  a  character  for  proficiency 
and  steadiness,  but  within  two  months  after  commencing  work  he  is 
discovered  dead,  sitting  behind  a  shed  with  an  empty  liquor  bottle  at 
his  feet. 


I 


' '  CLIMA  TE  "    THE   GREA  T  BLAME-BE  A  RER.       5 1 1 

Two  friends  visit  the  coast,  go  on  board  the  mail  steamer,  hobnoli 
socially,  and  depart  for  the  shore.  Both  are  taken  seriously  ill,  but 
fortunately  recover,  remaining  however  very  emaciated  and  -weak. 
One  departs  for  Madeira,  and  lives  to  tell  the  tale  ;  the  other,  on  the 
first  evening  of  his  convalescence,  iiniiilgcs  too  much  in  the  potent  wine, 
sits  out  too  late  in  the  night  air,  and  becomes  a  victim  to  tetanus, 
and  dies  in  excruciating  agony. 

Two  friends  meet  in  the  interior.  One  has  a  bottle  of  burgundy, 
the  other  a  bottle  of  cognac.  They  agree  to  dine  together  to  celebrate 
the  event ;  until  a  late  hour  they  sit  and  talk,  and,  I  suppose,  drink. 
The  coast-bound  friend  departs,  the  other  resumes  his  work  and  duty. 
By-and-by  the  sun  appears  powerful,  with  a  merciless  burning  strength. 
The  young  man  is  suddenly  stricken  down,  conveyed  to  the  nearest 
station,  and  twelve  hours  aftenvards  is  buried. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  recite  other  illustrations  of  the  incidents  which 
show  how  men  become  their  own  Avorst  enemies.  In  all  lands  there 
are  instances  of  suicidal  indifference  and  gross  recklessness  of  the  con- 
sequences resulting  from  misconduct.  To  many  preaching  avails  but 
little,  therefore  for  ages  yet  to  come  people  may  expect  to  hear  of  such 
lamentable  and  premature  deaths.  Were  there  a  moral  society  formed 
critically  to  inquire  into  the  fatal  cases  along  the  African  coast,  a 
fearful  catalogue  of  human  frailties  might  be  published,  and  it  would 
then  be  discovered  that  much  that  is  attributed  to  the  climate  ought 
justly  to  be  ascribed  to  far  different  causes. 

As  to  the  climate,  Mr.  Johnston  says : 

"  It  may  be  said  to  be  infinitely  superior  to  that  of 
the  Niger  or  the  Gold  Coast.  .  .  .  The  regular 
cool  breezes  from  the  South  Atlantic  greatly  reduce 
the  tropical  heat.  .  .  .  The  most  dangerous 
malady,  the  bilious  fever,  is  rarely  incurred  without 
much  previous  neglect  of  one's  health.  .  .  .  Be- 
yond Stanley  Pool,  I  can  only  call  the  temperature 
delightful.  It  ranged  at  such  a  place  as  Mswata,  for 
instance,  from  87°  in  the  shade  at  noon,  to  60°  at  two 
in  the  morning ;  and  this  in  the  rainy  or  hot  season. 
The  highest  temperature  that  I  have  ever  observed  at 


512  GOOD   HEALTH  POSSIBLE. 


Vivi  was  98'  in  the  shade  on  a  very  hot  day.  It  is 
quite  possible  to  walk  about  all  throu^di  the  middle 
of  the  day,  and  not  feel  the  heat  disacjreeable,  pro- 
vided you  wear  a  helmet,  and  carry  an  umbrella  ;  but 
when  you  see,  as  I  have  done,  young  men  newly 
arrived  from  Europe  exposing  themselves  to  the 
noonday  sun  without  anything  on  their  heads  but  a 
smoking  cap,  you  would  hardly  be  surprised  that 
deaths  from  sunstroke  take  place.  .  .  .  It  is 
possible  to  enjoy  excellent  health  on  the  Congo  if 
only  it  be  borne  upon  one's  mind  to  use  moderation 
in  all  things.  Abuse  no  form  of  enjoyment,  and 
avoid  alcohol  as  much  as  you  can.  Wine  and  brandy 
are  dangerous  adjuncts  to  a  healthy  man's  repast  in 
Africa.  On  the  other  hand,  alcohol  is  simply  invalu- 
able as  a  tonic  when  weak  from  fever  and  other 
causes.  .  .  .  When  people  have  conquered  their 
unreasonable  fear  of  the  Congo  climate,  and  some 
medical  man  has  deigned  to  study  the  local  hygiene, 
and  so  instructed  us  as  to  what  we  should  eat  and 
drink,  and  how  we  should  live,  and  how  we  should 
become  acclimatized  ;  when  transport  is  facilitated 
and  communication  with  the  outer  world  easy  and 
assured,  .  .  .  then  people  will  be  able  to  live  on 
the  Congo  as  comfortably  as  at  home." 

These  words  should  be  an  encouragement  to  God- 
fearing, right-living  men  and  women,  who  are  thinking 
of  devoting  their  lives  to  Africa.  They  will  run  none 
of  these  risks  at  any  rate,  and  they  may  moreover 
now  avoid  the  dangers  arising  from  inexperience,  to 
which  so  many  of  the  earlier  pioneers  succumbed. 


STANLEY'S  ADVICE. 


51: 


We  close  this  chapter  on  the   climate   by  giving 
(with  slight  total  abstinence  alterations)  Stanley's — 

F"ouRTEEX  Rules  for  Life  ix  Central 
Africa. 

X  the  building  of  your  house,  mis- 
sion, or  factory,  observe  well  its 
position.  Never  build,  if  you  can 
avoid  it,  in  a  gorge,  valley, 
ravine,  or  any  deep  depression 
of  land  that  may  serve  as  a 
channel  for  collected  wind 
currents.  A  free  diffusion  of 
air  is  required  in  your  surround- 
ings. The  nearest  points  to  the 
sea-plains,  extended  plateaux,  as 
far  removed  as  possible  from  any  dominating  superior 
heights  that  would  cause  irregular  air  currents,  are 
the  safest  localities.  The  lower  storey  should  be 
clear  of  the  ground,  unless  you  have  made  the  floors 
imporous  by  cement  or  asphalte.  In  a  grassy  plain 
the  floor  of  your  living-room  should  be  at  least  tivelve 
feet  above  ground. 

2.  Avoid  unnecessary  exposure  to  the  sun. 

3.  Guard    against   the   fogs,   dews,   and    chills    of 
evening  and  night. 

4.  Let  your  diet  be  good  as  your  circumstances 
will  permit,  but  be  prudent  in  your  choice.  Butter, 
cheese,  and  dishes  swimming  in  oleaginous  matter 
are  unsuitable  to  the  conditions  of  the  climate 
Roasted  ground-nuts  are  a  mistake.     Always  reject 


514  WHEN  TO  KNOCK  OFF  WORK. 


the  fat  of  meats  on  your  plate.  All  fat  causes  bile, 
rancidity,  and  nausea  in  the  tropics. 

Never  begin  the  day  with  an  early  meal  of  meats. 
Bread  made  at  the  station  is  better  than  biscuits. 

The  continental  cafe  an  hit  is  the  wisest  meal  with 
which  to  break  your  fast  {i.e.  coffee  with  milk  and 
bread). 

At  I  r  a.m.  cease  work  and  eat  your  wise  dejeihie); 
or  lunch  :  lean  of  meats,  fish,  vegetables,  dry  bread, 
and  weak  black  tea  with  condensed  milk. 

At  1.30  p.m.  proceed  to  your  work,  and  at  6.30 
p.m.  take  your  prudent  dinner,  boiled  fish,  roast  fowl, 
roast  mutton,  vegetables,  dry  bread,  rice,  tapioca, 
sago,  or  macaroni  pudding.  Amuse  yourself  with 
social  conversation  or  reading  until  9  p.m.,  when  you 
may  retire  to  your  dreamless  couch,  to  rise  up  next 
morning  with  brain  clear,  and  muscle  primed  for  toil, 
and  with  a  love  for  all  the  world. 

5.  Sleep  on  blankets,  and  cover  up  to  the  waist 
with  a  blanket  or  woollens. 

6.  If  marching,  rise  at  5  a.m.,  take  your  coffee  or 
tea  with  milk,  and  be  ready  for  the  road  at  5.30  a.m. 
Halt  at  1 1  a.m.  in  mercy  to  yourself,  your  men,  and 
your  animals,  and  do  no  more  for  the  day.  On 
halting  put  on  your  paletot  or  wrapper^  to  allow  you 
to  cool  gradually.  If  your  camp  is  on  an  exposed 
situation,  get  under  shelter  as  quickly  as  though  it 
were  raining.  You  may  perform  4,000  miles  per 
annum  at  this  rate. 

7.  Observe  the  strictest  temperance,  drop  all 
thought  of  "  tonics,"  according  to  the  rules  of  west 


BEWARE    OF   THE  SUN.  515 


coasters,  old  traders,  African  travellers,  or  your  own 
self-deceiving  fancies.  If  you  are  in  absolute  need  of 
a  tonic,  apply  to  the  doctor.  Adhere  to  the  simple 
rule  of  never  taking  any  liquor  or  wine.  Your  best 
tonic  would  be  two  grains  of  quinia  as  prepared  by 
Burroughs  &  Welcome,  of  Snow  Hill  Buildings, 
London.  If  thirsty  at  a  station  or  factory,  prepare 
a  glass  of  sherbet.  If  marching,  drop  a  compressed 
tablet  of  acidulous  pozuder  as  prepared  by  these 
chemists  in  your  cup  of  water,  or  quench  your  thirst 
from  your  sweetened  and  weak  tea  in  the  bottle. 

8.  If  engaged  in  outdoor  work,  superintending 
coloured  labourers,  never  for  an  instant  be  in  the  sun, 
without  a  strong  double  umbrella.  A  large  one 
fastened  to  your  piked  staff  like  a  small  tent  would 
be  better  still.  For  headdress  you  have  a  choice  of 
cork  helmet,  topee,  or  Congo  cap,  the  last  of  which 
is  the  best  of  all. 

9.  If  during  the  march  you  have  been  so  impru- 
dent as  to  be  without  an  ample  umbrella,  a  wetting 
need  not  necessarily  be  dangerous  ;  but  it  becomes 
positively  so,  if  after  excessive  perspiration,  rain,  or 
an  accident  at  a  river  crossing,  you  remain  any  time 
quiescent  ivitJiotit  changing  your  dress. 

10.  When  on  the  march,  the  more  lightly  you  are 
clad,  the  better  ;  because  at  the  halt  you  will  be 
reminded  of  the  necessity  of  your  paletot,  or  overcoat. 
Very  light  flannel  will  be  quite  sufficient  for  your 
dress,  owing  to  the  exercise  you  take.  Light  russet 
shoes  for  the  feet,  knickerbockers  of  light  flannel, 
loose  light  flannel  shirt,  a  roll  of  flannel  round   the 


5i6  CLOTHING  AND  MEDICINE. 


waist,  and  a  Congo  cap  for  the  head,  will  enable  )'ou 
to  travel  twelve  miles  per  day  without  distress. 

11.  At  the  station,  factor)-,  or  mission,  your 
clothing  should  also  be  light,  though  not  in  the  un- 
dress uniform  of  the  road,  because  you  know  not 
what  work  j'ou  may  take  at  any  moment — heavy 
clothing  causing  profuse  perspiration,  which  should 
be  avoided  when  circumstances  do  not  compel  it. 

12.  It  is  to  be  presumed  that  if  your  principal  work 
is  indoors,  you  will  not  forget  your  exercise  ;  between 
6  and  7  a.m.  and  5  and  6  p.m.  are  safe  hours. 

13.  Do  not  bathe  in  cold  water  unless  you  are  but 
newly  arrived  from  a  temperate  climate.  A  bath  is 
not  safe  below  a  temperature  of  85°.  Let  your  bath 
be  in  the  morning  or  before  dinner.  The  tepid  bath 
is  the  most  suitable. 

14.  Fruit,  if  taken  at  all,  should  be  eaten  in  the 
morning,  before  the  r^/I'or  the  an  lait,  such  as  oranges, 
mangoes,  ripe  bananas,  guavas,  and  papaws.  Only 
tJie  juice  of  the  pine-apple  is  to  be  recommended  ; 
never  eat  any  fruit  in  the  tropics  at  diimer. 

Medicine. — Obtain  your  medicine  pure  and  well 
prepared.  Messrs.  Burroughs  &  Welcome  will  equip 
you  with  tropic  medicine  in  chests  or  cases,  with 
supplies  to  last  you  one  month  or  ten  years.  The)- 
have  sought  the  best  medical  advice,  and  reall)-  seem 
disposed  to  study  the  special  needs  of  the  East,  West, 
Central,  Northern,  or  South  African  traveller,  soldier, 
trader,  and  missionar)-.  I  have  informed  them  of  the 
few  diseases  such  as  have  fallen  under  my  obser\-a- 
tion,  and  they  have  prepared   such  medicines  as  have 


HOLIDAYS  NEEDFUL.  5' 7 


been  tried  during  the  last  seventeen  years  of  my 
African  experiences. 

The  same  prudence  that  is  required  for  protection 
against  draughts,  sudden  chills,  catarrhs,  bronchitis, 
and  pulmonary  diseases  in  Europe  should  be  exer- 
cised, only  with  the  difference  that  in  the  tropics 
the  clothing  necessary  to  effect  due  care  need  not 
be  so  heavy. 

One  more  observation  will  suffice.  However  well 
the  European  may  enjoy  the  climate  by  wise  self- 
government,  years  of  constant  high  temperature, 
assisted  by  the  monotony  and  poverty  of  diet,  cannot 
be  otherwise  than  enervating  and  depressing,  although 
life  may  not  be  endangered.  The  physical  force, 
vigour,  or  strength  becomes  debilitated  by  the  heat, 
necessitating  after  a  few  years  recuperation  in  a 
temperate  climate.  To  preserve  perfect  health,  I 
advise  the  trader,  missionary,  coffee-planter,  and 
agriculturist  who  hopes  to  maintain  his  full  vigour, 
after  eighteen  months'  residence,  to  seek  three  months' 
recreation  in  northern  Europe,  for  the  same  reason 
that  a  man  devoted  to  absorbing  business  in  a 
European  city  for  eighteen  months  would  do  wisely 
to  take  a  few  months'  holiday.  Beyond  what  has 
been  told  above,  there  is  nothing  in  Congoland  to 
daunt  a  man — indeed,  far  less  than  in  many  parts  of 
India,  South  America,  or  the  West  Indies. 

The  Duke  of  Wellington's  advice  was  given  with  a 
view  to  India,  but  it  is  equally  applicable  to  Central 
Africa.  "  I  know  but  one  receipt  for  good  health  in 
this  country,  and  that  is  to  live  moderatel}',  to  drink 


5i8  DIET  DIFFICULTIES. 

little  or  no  wine,  to  use  exercise,  to  keep  tJie  viind 
employed,  and,  if  possible,  to  keep  in  good  humour 
with  the  world.  The  last  is  the  most  difficult,  for 
.  .  .  there  is  scarcely  a  good-tempered  man  in 
India." 

But  while  strict  temperance  and  moderation  are 
essential  to  health  on  the  Congo,  poor  living  is 
equally  to  be  avoided.  Elsewhere  Stanley  has  said  : 
"  The  cause  of  death  of  so  many  in  African  explor- 
ing parties  is  improper  food.  Feed  your  European  on 
good  English  provisions,  to  be  had  in  preserved  form ; 
pet  and  care  for  him,  and  he  will  live  ;  give  him  only 
native  food,  and  let  him  rough  it,  and  he  will  die. 
Just  a  matter  of  commissariat  !  " 

Other  African  travellers  confirm  this — perhaps 
somewhat  exaggerated — statement  of  an  unquestion- 
able fact.  Far  more  African  explorers  and  residents 
have  died  from  lack  of  proper  food,  especially  after 
illness,  than  is  commonly  supposed.  But  each  year 
is  diminishing  the  difficulties  on  this  score. 


CO^XLUSION. 

Central  i\frica  is  a  big  world,  and  one  scarcely 
knows  how  to  pause  in  writing  of  it,  but  we  have 
already  exceeded  our  limits,  and  must  put  some 
recollections  by  various  missionaries,  which  we  had 
intended  to  add  to  these  chapters,  in  a  separate  little 
book. 

In  closing,  we  would  fain  lea\"e  on  the  minds  of 
every  reader  the  one  great  idea  which  dominates  our 
own.  Providential  circumstances  have  in  our  days 
imparted  a  new  significanc-e  to  our  ^Master's  great 
commission,  "  Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  proclaim 
the  glad  tidings  to  every  creature."  It  is  now  seen, 
as  never  before,  to  include  the  swarthy  millions  of 
the  Dark  Continent.  We  have  now  full  knowledge 
of  these  Central  African  races,  and  we  have  besides 
poiver  to  reach  them.  Knowledge  and  power  in  this 
case  mean  responsibility.  A  purpose  has  been  mani- 
fested in  that  providence  of  God,  which  has  at  the 
close  of  this  nineteenth  century  unveiled  Central 
Africa. 

Its  people  need  the  hand  of  help  to  an  extent 
which  few  realize,  politically,  socially,  and  above  all 
spiritually.      They  are  being  victimised,  as  we  have 


520  IIEU'LESS  AFRICA. 


seen,  by  Arab  slavers  on  the  East,  and  European 
rum-sellers  on  the  West,  and  they  need  political  pro- 
tection from  the  ruthless  cruelty  and  selfish  greed  of 
both.  They  arc  suffering  severely,  both  physicall)-, 
mentally,  and  morally  from  their  age-long^  isolation 
from  the  rest  of  the  human  race  ;  and  from  this  they 
must  be  delivered  by  social  help,  the  help  ^\•hich 
righteous  commerce  can  afford.  ]kit,  worst  of  all, 
they  arc  buried  in  spiritual  darkness,  captives  under 
the  power  of  Satan.  Sin  has  darkened  the  light  of 
nature  among  them,  and  the  brighter  light  of  reve- 
lation has  never  shone  upon  them.  They  have  no 
knowledge  of  the  law  of  God,  much  less  of  His 
gospel.  They  have  no  acquaintance  even  with  their 
own  origin,  and  are  altogether  in  the  dark  as  regards 
their  duties  and  their  destiny.  Hateful,  and  hating 
one  another,  sacrificing  to  devils  and  not  to  God, 
"  filled  with  all  unrighteousness,"  cruelty,  and  wicked- 
ness, their  moral  misery  and  their  utter  helplessness 
arc  a  powerful  appeal  to  the  followers  of  the  com- 
passionate Christ.  From  their  spiritual  destitution 
the  gospel  alone  can  deliver  them. 

The  world  is  busy  about  Africa.  The  nations  of 
Europe  are  appropriating  each  its  portion  of  this  new 
world.  Commerce  is  eager  to  enter  the  rich  and 
freshly  opened  markets  ;  selfish  and  ungodly  com- 
merce, alas  !  as  well  as  fair  and  philanthropic  trade. 
Science  endeavours  to  understand  African  phenomena, 
to  unravel  its  geography,  ascend  its  great  mountains, 
classify  its  fauna  and  flora,  and  study  its  geology. 
To  ethnographers,  archaeologists,  and   linguists  alike 


THE  MIGHTIEST  MOTIVE— WHAT!  521 


this  new  continent  is  full  of  interest.  Oh  that  the 
Church  might  prove,  by  energetic  and  effective  mis- 
sionary activity,  that  the  constra'uii)ig  love  of  Christ 
is  a  mightier  motive  than  all  beside ! 

If  a  new  expedition  for  exploration  or  for  the  relief 
of  the  explorers  be  planned  and  started,  hundreds  are 
eager  to  join  the  ranks,  risking  all  danger,  and  offer- 
ing even  thousands  of  pounds  for  the  privilege  of  par- 
ticipating in  the  undertaking.  Why  is  there  no  such 
emulation  to  obtain  the  honour  of  opening  new  lands 
to  the  everlasting  gospel  ?  How  is  it  that  so  few  of 
Christ's  servants  who  have  wealth  and  influence  come 
forward  to  arrange  African  expeditions  of  a  nobler 
kind,  expeditions  that  would  produce  eternal  results  ? 
When  the  queen  appoints  her  ministers  to  places  of 
difficulty  and  danger,  do  they  not  gladly  go  ?  Who 
would  decline  the  honour  of  being  an  ambassador 
even  in  an  unhealthy  climate  ?  How  is  it  that  there 
is  so  little  holy  ambition  among  young  Christians  ? 

The  world  has  done  much  for  Congoland.  Will 
the  Church  be  equally  unselfish  and  equally  gene- 
rous in  her  action  towards  the  new  world  ?  If  its 
material  interests  are  worthy  to  engage  the  Christian 
powers  of  Europe  in  earnest  consultation,  are  not 
its  spiritual  interests  still  more  worthy  the  deep  and 
prayerful  consideration  of  the  Church  of  Christ  ?  If 
a  Roman  Catholic  monarch  could,  out  of  pure  philan- 
thropy, lay  out  half  a  million  sterling  in  making  the 
practical  investigations  preliminary  to  the  formation 
of  the  Free  State,  is  there  no  prince  in  the  Protestant 
Israel  ready  to  consecrate,  out  of  devotion  to  Christ, 


522  MEN  AND  MONEY  NEEDED. 

funds  large  enough  to  evangelize  this  generation  of 
its  people  ? 

The}'  are  quickly  passing  beyond  our  help.  Mtesa 
is  dead,  Alirambo  is  dead,  Kangampaka  is  dead. 
Kings  and  people  alike  die  off  fast  in  Africa. 
Tens  of  thousands  of  victims  have  been  murdered 
during  the  few  years  we  have  described  in  these 
pages.  Thousands  more  have  perished  by  small- 
pox and  by  the  sad  sleeping-sickness.  Life  is  short 
in  Central  Africa  ;  and  now  that  an  available  water- 
way from  7,000  to  10,000  miles  long  is  open,  to 
carry  the  ambassadors  of  Christ  to  any  part  of  the 
Congo  basin,  who  will  go  forward  to  use  it,  and 
who  will  expedite  the  work  by  furnishing  the  means 
to  send  out  and  sustain  missionary  volunteers  ? 

Not  by  twos  and  threes,  but  by  hundreds  and 
thousands  should  such  be  going  forth.  Teachers, 
preachers,  doctors,  artisans — men  and  women  alike — 
are  wanted  to  evangelize  the  new  world  so  marvel- 
lously opened  to  the  efforts  of  the  Church.  And 
donors  are  wanted  too  !  Rich  disciples  must  help, 
though  they  cannot  go.  The  responsibility  rests  upon 
them,  even  more  than  upon  others.  They  arc  stewards, 
and  their  Master  is  showing  plainly  that  He  wants 
Africa  to  be  evangelized.  It  is  costly  work,  owing  to 
the  undeveloped  condition  of  the  country.  But  what 
is  that  ?  Christ  has  ample  resources  for  the  purpose 
in  the  hands  of  tlis  English  and  American  stewards. 
What  will  He  say  to  those  stewards  if  His  gold  is 
not  forthcoming"  at  this  crisis  ?     There  are  Christian 


LET  US  PRAY!  523 

millionaires  on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic,  as  well 
as  a  recently  revealed  dark  world  crying  out  for  the 
gospel  of  salvation. 

The  year  1894  will,  please  God  !  see  the  new 
railroad  to  Stanley  Pool  completed,  and  opened  for 
traffic,  and  the  Congo  basin,  with  its  hundred  millions 
of  inhabitants,  easily  accessible  from  Europe — brought 
within  three  weeks  of  London.  No  such  event  has 
happened  since  the  discovery  of  America  ;  and  nine- 
teenth century  science,  capital,  and  population  will 
enable  men  to  take  possession  of  this  new  world  with 
a  rapidity  unknown  to  our  ancestors. 

All  this  is  very  solemn  !  A  hundred  millions  of 
benighted  and  deluded  men  and  women  to  be  taught 
about  the  Saviour  who  died  for  them  !  Have  Chris- 
tians grasped  the  situation  ? 

May  the  God  who  gave  Livingstone  his  lonely 
courage,  his  patient  endurance,  his  intense  compassion 
for  his  fellow  men  ; — the  God  who  endowed  Stanley 
with  his  wonderful  enterprise  and  untiring  energy, 
his  indomitable  firmness  of  purpose  and  fertility  of 
resource  ; — the  God  who  enriched  Leopold  with  his 
largeness  of  heart  and  exceeding  liberality  :  MAY  HE 
RAISE  UP  OTHERS  LIKE  TO  THESE  THREE  :MIGHTY 
MEN  TO  CARE  FOR  THE  CHRISTIAN  SIDE  OF  THIS 
GREAT   undertaking! 


APPENDIX  A. 

List  of  present  Missionary  Agencies 
IN  THE  Congo  Free  State. 

Eleven  different  missionary  agencies  are  already  at  work  in  the  Congo 
Free  State— three  Roman  Catholic  and  eight  Protestant. 

1.  The  MissiLm  du  Saint  Esprit,  at  Banana  and  Boma,  under  the 
care  of  Mgr.  Carrie.  Four  priests  and  two  lay  brethren  are  connected 
with  this  mission,  which  has  small  schools,  and  gives  some  industrial 
training  to  the  children. 

2.  The  Belgian  Mission,  established  only  in  iSSS  at  Kwamouth,  on 
the  Upper  Congo,  and  hoping  to  plant  a  second  station  at  Luluaberg, 
on  the  Kasai,  shortly. 

3.  There  is  a  mission  worked  by  the  Fi-res  cT Algerie  (or  Algerian 
priests)  in  the  south-east  part  of  the  Free  .State.  It  has  two  stations  at 
Mpala  and  Kibango,  on  Lake  Tanganyika,  but  it  does  not  seem  to  be 
having  much  success.  The  Romanists  are  showing  more  activity  in 
Portuguese  territorj'  than  in  the  Free  State. 

The  Protestant  missions  are  : 

I.  The  Livingstone  Inland  Mission  of  tJie  American  Baptist  Mis- 
sionary Union,  with  seven  stations — Mukimvika,  opposite  Banana  on 
the  coast,  Palabala,  Banza  Manteka,  and  Lukunga,  in  the  Cataract 
gorge ;  and  Leopoldville,  Bwemba,  and  Wangata  on  the  upper 
river.  This  mission  has  now  about  thirty  missionaries,  and  has  many 
schools  and  chapels,  with  some  hundreds  of  baptized  Church  members, 
including  many  native  preachers.  It  has  a  steamer  on  the  upper 
river,  and  has  prepared,  in  the  various  dialects  spoken  through  seven 
hundred  miles  of  country,  many  translations  from  the  .Scriptures, 
besides  vocabularies,  grammars,  and  school  books.     It  has  also  medical 

525 


5i6  PKOIESTANT  MISSIONS 


missions  at  Mukimviii.i  and  Kinchassa.     It  has  been  working  for  the 
last  twelve  years,  and  exerts  a  good  deal  of  influence  among  the  natives. 

2.  The  Ens;lish  Baptist  Missionary  Society  has  seven  stations — 
Tundwa,  on  the  lower  river,  St.  Salvador  (Portuguese  territory), 
'Ngombe,  or  Lulete,  in  the  Cataract  region,  and  Kinchassa,  Boiobo, 
and  Lukolela,  on  the  upper  river.  The  steamer  Peace  belongs  to  this 
mission,  and  in  it  Mr.  Grenfell  has  done  much  good  service  by  ex- 
plorations of  many  of  the  tributaries  of  the  Congo.  Mr.  Bentley,  of 
'Xgombe,  is  the  author  of  the  best  dictionary  extant  of  the  Ki-kongo 
language  :  and  several  translations  have  also  been  prepared.  Mrs. 
Bentley  is  endeavouring  to  teach  the  natives  the  working  of  the  tele- 
graph, in  preparation  for  the  time  when  the  railway  will  require  young 
telegraphists.  She  took  back  with  her  from  Europe  a  miniature  tele- 
graph line  for  teaching  purposes.  Many  native  converts  are  connected 
with  this  mission,  which  has  also  been  working  twelve  years  in  the 
country. 

3.  The  excellent  Swedish  Missionary  Society's  work  was  originally 
connected  with  the  Livingstone  Inland  Mission,  and  occupied  its 
station  of  Mukimbungu,  between  Isanghila  and  Manyanga  ;  but  when 
the  transfer  of  this  Mission  to  the  .-Vmerican  Baptist  Missionary  Union 
took  place  in  1S84,  it  was  arranged  that  the  Swedes  should  work  an 
independent  mission  from  that  station  as  a  centre,  supported  and  directed 
from  their  own  country.  They  have  now  about  twenty  missionaries, 
and  have  formed  two  additional  stations  on  the  north  side  of  the  Congo 
— Diadia  and  Kibunzi.  They  have  many  converts,  Mr.  Westlind  is  a 
remarkably  good  linguist,  and  has  translated  John's  Gospel. 

4.  Bishop  Taylor's  Mission  was  formed  to  work  on  the  great  southern 
tributary  of  the  Congo,  the  Kasai  ;  but  though  commenced  four 
years  ago  (in  1S86),  with  an  unusually  large  first  party,  consisting  ot 
twenty-four  missionaries,  under  the  bishop's  own  leading,  it  has  not 
yet  reached  its  field  of  labour,  or  commenced  any  missionary  work 
proper.  The  peculiar  plans  which  were  adopted  have  proved  totally 
unsuited  to  the  country.  Very  large  sums  of  money  were  expended 
on  a  raft  and  traction-engine,  brought  from  America,  and  subsequently 
on  a  steamer,  so  constructed  that  its  heavier  portions  could  not  be 
landed  at  Vivi  or  carried  up  country.  None  of  this  machinery  has 
been  of  any  use  as  yet.  The  principle  of  self-support  was  attempted  ; 
and  as  a  result  the  agents  of  the  mission  have  suffered  great  privations, 
many  having  died,  and  others  have  left  the  Congo.  The  rest  are  scattered 
around  Banana,  Vivi,  antl   Isanghila,  and  are  making  a  brave  struggle 


IN  THE   CONGO  FREE  STATE.  527 


to  sustain  life  by  shooting  hippopotami,  and  selling  the  dried  flesh  to 
the  natives,  in  exchange  for  the  produce  of  the  country.  Four  of  the 
party  are  occupying  an  old  State  station  at  Kimpoko,  on  Stanley  Pool, 
and  attempting  a  little  agriculture  and  trade  ;  but  none  of  the  would- 
be  missionaries  have  been  able  to  devote  much  time  to  studying  the 
languages,  or  teaching  the  people.  None  of  their  stations  exert  as  yet 
any  spiritual  influence  over  the  neighbouring  districts,  and  consequently 
no  converts  have  been  made.  But  the  mission  has  not  been  long  at 
■work. 

New  plans  are  not  always  an  improvement  on  old  ones  !  Nothing 
can  exceed  the  bishop's  cheerful  courage  and  confidence  in  the  ultimate 
success  of  his  methods,  nor  his  enthusiastic  desire  to  do  good  in  Africa. 
We  hope  that  he  may  yet — by  somewhat  modifying  his  plans,  and 
adapting  them  to  the  backward  state  of  development  in  the  country — 
succeed  in  planting  his  mission  on  the  Kasai.  He  has  come  to  the 
conclusion  that  he  will  have,  like  others  before  him,  to  found  a  chain 
of  stations  before  he  can  launch  a  steamer  on  the  Pool,  and  that  the 
heavy  one  first  taken  out  is  no  use  for  this  purpose.  He  intends  to 
reconstruct  and  use  it  on  the  lower  river,  where  however  trading 
steamers  are  now  plying. 

5.  A  second  American  agency  has  tried  to  follow  somewhat  on  these 
lines.  The  Missionary  Evangelical  Alliance ;  but  its  operations,  at 
present,  consist  only  of  one  small  attempt  near  Vivi,  where  the  mis- 
sionaries reside  in  a  little  native  hut,  and  live  by  hunting  buffalo  and 
antelopes.  They  smoke  the  flesh  of  these  animals,  and  sell  it  to  the 
natives.  It  is  clear  that  men  who  have  to  support  themselves  and 
their  families  in  Africa  will  never  have  much  time  for  either  study  or 
teaching  !  The  Congo  country  is  not  one  for  colonists :  its  climate 
renders  it  totally  unlike  South  Africa  in  this  respect.  For  European 
teachers  to  live  in  it  at  all  is  difficult,  and  every  working  hour  of  their 
lives  ought  consequently  to  be  devoted  to  di)-ecl  missionary  work.  It 
is  a  pity  if  the  Chuixh  of  Christ,  which  gives  such  large  sums  to 
sustain  its  ministers  at  home,  cannot  afford  to  sustain  its  ministers 
abroad,  and  thus  liberate  them  from  the  necessity  of  wasting  their 
priceless  time  and  risking  their  precious  lives  in  order  to  procure  them- 
selves food. 

6.  In  the  south-east  part  of  the  Congo  Free  State,  among  the  sources 
of  the  Congo  in  the  Garengange  countrj',  A/r.  F.  S.  Arnot  has  estab- 
lished his  mission.  After  years  of  weary  peregrinations  through  the 
Zambesi  and  Barotse  districts  he  found  this  location  suitable  for  the 


528         MISSIONS  IN  THE   CONGO  FREE  STATE. 

residence  of  Europeans.  The  mission  is  still  in  its  infancy,  though 
Mr.  Avnot  has  not  yet  succeeded  in  making  his  way  back  to  his  station 
with  his  wife  and  new  helpers,  and  in  rejoining  his  colleagues  there. 
It  is  one  of  the  most  interesting  and  heroic  of  missions,  very  far 
removed  from  all  communication  with  other  Europeans,  and  hundreds 
of  miles  distant  from  any  base  of  supplies.  The  climate  of  Garangange 
is  fairly  healthy,  and  the  king  of  the  country  friendly.  But  the  immense 
distance  from  the  coast,  and  the  absence  of  a  connecting  chain  of 
stations,  make  the  difficulties,  dangers,  and  expenses  very  great. 

7.  The  London  Missionary  Society s  Mission,  on  Lake  Tanganyika, 
is  also  in  the  Congo  Free  .State.  Their  stations  are  Kaval.\  Island 
and  FwAMBOON,  the  southern  extremity  of  the  lake.  This  mission, 
long  under  the  care  of  Captain  Hore  (who  is  now  in  England),  has 
endured  severe  trials,  ami  has  felt  the  immense  difficulties  arising  from 
its  remote  position — a  walk  of  800  miles  from  Zanzibar  being  involved 
in  getting  to  the  lake.  The  only  other  means  of  access  (via  the  Zam- 
besi, Shire,  Lake  Nyassa,  and  the  Stevenson  Road)  being,  though  easier, 
too  precarious  to  depend  upon,  and  frequently  blocked  by  Arabs.  This 
mission  has  the  steamer  Good  Nrws  oil  the  lake,  and  has  done  some 
excellent  work  in  schools  and  preaching  the  gospel  ;  but  the  sphere  is 
a  hard  one. 

8.  The  Congo-Balolo  Mission,  on  the  Upper  Congo — our  own  mis- 
sion born  last  spring — has  selected  for  its  sphere  the  six  southern 
tributaries  of  the  Congo  beyond  Equatorville,  the  Lulanga,  Maringa, 
Lopori,  Ikelemba,  Juapa,  and  Bosira,  presenting  together  about  2,000 
miles  of  navigable  water-way,  w'ith  towns  and  villages  on  both  banks. 
It  has  eleven  missionaries.  The  first  party  reached  their  destination 
about  six  months  after  leaving  England,  though  taking  with  them  a 
considerable  amount  of  material  for  the  construction  of  their  first 
stations.  They  have  the  use  of  the  A.B.M.U.  steamer  Henry  Reed, 
kindly  lent  for  a  year,  before  the  expiration  of  which  it  is  hoped  their 
own  steamer,  the  Pioneer — sent  out  in  December,  1S89,  for  recon- 
struction— will  be  ready  for  the  use  of  the  mission.  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
McKittrick,  Messrs.  Whytock,  Haupt,  Howell,  Todd,  and  Blake, 
together  with  Miss  de  Ilailes,  formed  the  first  party  of  this  mission. 
They  were  reinforced  early  in  1890  by  Messrs.  Adamson,  Luff",  and 
Cole.  The  two  former  went  out  in  charge  of  the  new  steamer  ;  and 
the  latter  as  missionary  agriculturist  to  assist  on  the  Lulanga.  The 
mission  has  already  two  stations,  Lulongo  and  Ikau. 


UNEVANGELIZED   AFRICA.  529 


When  we  remember  that  all  this  country  was  unknown  eleven  years 
ago,  and  that  the  Congo  Free  State  itself  dates  only  from  1885— such 
an  array  of  agencies,  scattered  over  its  vast  area  already,  is  a  most 
hopeful  sign.  Christianity,  even  in  its  least  pure  form,  is  a  vast  ad- 
vance on  the  cruelties  and  fetish  of  Central  Africa.  In  its  pure  form 
it  is  life  from  the  dead. 

Wlien  the  Livingstone  Inland  Mission  began  its  operations  in  January, 
187S,  it  stood  alone;  now  it  is,  thank  God  1  one  among  a  dozen  dif- 
ferent organizations  having  the  spread  of  Christianity  for  their  object. 
We  hear  also  that  the  American  Presbyterians  intend  to  enter  the  field, 
which  is  vast  enough — being  as  large  as  all  India — to  welcome  a  dozen 
more  agencies. 

All  these  missions  together  only  muster  about  a  hundred  effective 
workers,  and  there  are  about  fifty  millions  to  be  evangelized  in  the 
Congo  Free  State  alone,  and  probably  five  limes  that  number  in  the 
rest  of  unevangelized  Africa. 

From  the  last  mission  station  on  the  Upper  Congo,  a  journey  of  a 
thousand  miles  would  be  needed  to  reach  the  nearest  stations  on  the 
east — those  on  the  great  lakes.  Seventeen  hundred  miles  to  the  north- 
east lies  the  Red  Sea,  and  there  is  no  mission  station  between  1  Two 
thousand  two  hundred  miles  due  north  is  the  Mediterranean,  and  no 
mission  station  between ;  while  two  thousand  five  hundred  miles  to 
the  north-west  are  the  stations  of  the  North  African  ^Mission,  but  no 
single  centre  of  light  between  !  Seven  hundred  miles  to  the  west  is  the 
Cameroons  Station,  but  the  whole  intervening  country  is  unvisited  ;  and 
in  the  south-west  the  American  Mission  at  Bihe  is  fully  a  thousand 
miles  distant. 

Our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  said,  "If  ye  love  Me,  keep  My  command-' 
ments."     His  last  commandments  were  : 

"Go  YE  INTO  ALL  THE  WORLD,  AND  PREACH  THE  GOSPEL  TO 
EVERY  CREATURE."      And 

"YE  SHALL  EE  WITNESSES  UNTO  Me  .  .  .  UNTO  THE  UTTER- 
MOST PARTS  OF  THE  EARTH." 


C.  A;  34 


THE  EAST  LONDON   INSTITUTE 

FOR  HOME  AND  FOREIGN  MISSIONS. 


Founder  and  Hon.  Director : 

H.   GRATTAX  GUINNESS,  D.D.,  F.R.G.S. 

Hon.  Secretary: 

MRS.  H.  GRATTAN  GUINNESS. 

Treasurer : 

SIR   ARTHUR   BLACKWOOD. 

Bankers : 

London  and  South-western  Bank  (Bow  Branch). 

Hon.  Auditors: 
Arthur  J.   Hill,  Vellacott  &  Co.,  Finsbury  Circus. 

Trustees : 
Theodore  Howard,  Esq.,  Westleigh,  Bickley,  Kent. 
Capt.  the  Hon.  R.  jNIoreton,  Hamilton,  Ontario. 
Rev.  J.  Stephens,  M.A.,  Somerset  Villa,  Dartmouth  Park  Hill,  N. 
J.  VAN  SOMMER,  EsQ. ,  13,  New  Inn,  Strand,  W.C. 
Sir  Arthur  Blackwood,  K.C.B.,  Shortlands  House,  Shortlands, 
Kent. 

Hon.  London  Director : 

H.  GRATTAN-GUINNESS,  M.R.C.S. 


This  Institute  was  founded  in  March,  1872,  with  a 
view  to  increase  the  number  of  ambassadors  for  Christ 
among  the  heathen,  and  in  the  darker  regions  of 
Christendom. 

The  world's  population,  according  to  the  best 
estimates,  is  at  present  about  1,400  milHons.  Only 
about  400  milHons  are,  even  in  name.  Christians,  and 
the  remainder  of  over  a  thousand  viillioiis  are  conse- 
quently non-Christians,  and  for  the  most  part  heathen. 
The  greater  part  of  this  almost  inconceivable  mass 
have  never  heard  of  Christ,  and  have  little  chance  of 
doing  so,  for  Protestant  missionaries  are  scattered 
among  them  only  in  the  proportion  of  ONE  to  every 


532  THE  EAST  LONDON  INSTITUTE 

three  or  fuur  hundred  thousand.  Xo  single  indivi- 
dual could  possibly  minister  the  word  of  life  to  such 
a  multitude,  even  in  Christendom  ;  how  much  less  in 
heathendom  ! 

The  supplv  is  clearly  inadequate,  and  yet 
the  evangelical  Churches  at  home  are  rich  both  in 
men  and  money.  There  is  no  reason  why  it  should 
not  speedily  be  doubled,  trebled,  multiplied  tenfold. 
There  arc  in  our  home  Churches  thousands  of  con- 
verted and  devoted  young  men  and  women  suitable 
for  missionaries,  and  willing  to  become  such  ;  and 
there  is  wealth  enough  in  the  hands  of  Christians  to 
send  them  forth  and  sustain  them  among  the  heathen. 
Some  of  these  are  educated,  and  have  already  engaged 
more  or  less  in  the  service  of  God  in  this  land,  and 
having  means  of  their  own,  can  go  forth  into  heathen- 
dom when  they  will.  Others  hear  the  call  of  God, 
and  desire  to  obey,  but  lack  the  needful  education, 
and  have  neither  leisure  nor  means  to  acquire  it,  nor 
the  ability  to  go  forth  at  their  own  charges. 

Our  Institute  seeks  to  arouse  men  and  women 
of  this  latter  class,  to  hear  and  heed  the  last  great 
command  of  Christ :  it  helps  them  to  fit  themselves 
for  service  in  heathendom,  or  in  other  needy  spheres, 
by  offering  them,  freely,  a  course  of  suitable  study 
and  practical  training.  It  then  introduces  them  to  the 
field  for  which  they  seem  best  adapted,  and,  if  need 
be,  sustains  or  helps  to  sustain  them  in  it.  It  seeks 
also,  and  in  order  to  all  this,  the  diffusion  of  informa- 
tion by  press  and  platform  as  to  the  world's  wants 
and  the  Lord's  work,  so  as  to  deepen  in  the  hearts  of 
Christians  at  hovac  practical  couipassion  for  the  heathen 
and  a  sense  of  responsibility  to  give  them  the  gospel. 

Two  Colleges,  each  adapted  for  fifty  men — one 
in  East  London  and  the  other  in  North  Derbvshirc — 


FOR  HOME  AND  FOREIGN  MISSIONS.  533 

are  connected  with  the  Institute,  which  has  also  a 
Training  Home  for  thirty  young  \yomen  stu- 
dents preparing  for  missionary  work.  The  course 
of  study  and  practical  training  is  adapted  to  afford 
the  students  such  help  as  they  are  capable  of  receiv- 
ing, and  as  will  fit  them  for  future  usefulness  in  the 
sphere  to  which  they  may  seem  best  adapted.  It 
extends  over  three  years,  and,  in  the  case  of  regular 
medical  students,  over  a  longer  time.  All  the  stu- 
dents receive  a  certain  measure  of  medical  preparation, 
both  theoretical  and  practical. 

An  extensive  Home  Mission  work,  in  which 
the  students  receive  practical  training,  is  carried  on 
in  connexion  with  the  Institute,  among  the  working 
classes  in  East  London.  Its  operations  comprise  a 
medical  mission  with  a  numerously  attended  dispen- 
sary, and  a  maternity  department  worked  under  a 
certificated  lady  by  the  young  women  students  ; 
mothers'  meetings  ;  night  schools  for  men,  for  lads, 
and  for  factory  girls  ;  a  soup  kitchen  ;  Band  of  Hope 
and  temperance  meetings  ;  house-to-house  visitation, 
open-air  preaching,  tent  meetings  in  summer,  Sunday 
schools  and  Bible  classes,  and  gospel  preaching. 
Two  mission  halls  in  Bow  and  Bromley,  with  school- 
rooms and  classrooms  attached,  are  worked  directly 
and  exclusively  by  the  Institute,  and  the  students 
help  in  a  large  number  of  other  mission  halls,  and 
preach  also  in  churches  and  chapels. 

The  Institute  is  broadly  catholic  in  its 
principles  and  practice  ;  it  trains  men  of  all 
evangelical  denominations,  of  all  nationalities,  and  of 
all  classes ;  and  it  trains  them  for  all  societies,  all 
lands,  and  all  spheres  of  Christian  effort.  It  is  as 
comprehensive  as  it  is  possible  to  be,  within  the  limits 
of  evangelical  truth.  It  seeks  to  be  GODLY  and 
practical   in   character  and  in    methods  :  to  cultivate 


534  EAST  LONDON  INSTITUTE 


devotion,  dependence  on  God,  self-denial,  self-support 
as  far  as  possible,  and  self-sacrifice ;  and  it  aims 
especially  at  "  the  regions  beyond,"  or  neglected  and 
unevangelized  fields  at  home  and  abroad. 

The  students  have  been  of  various  nation- 
alities :  not  only  English,  Scotch,  Irish,  and  Ame- 
rican, but  French,  German,  Italian,  Spanish,  Swedish 
Danish,  Russian,  Bulgarian,  Syrian,  Egyptian,  Kaffir, 
Negro,  Hindu,  Parsi,  Kurdish,  and  Jewish.  They 
have  also  been  of  various  denominations.  The  large 
majority  of  those  who  have  gone  out  as  missionaries 
are  now  connected  with  about  twenty  different  so- 
cieties and  associations,  while  a  number  are  working 
independently  as  self-sustaining  missionaries,  medical 
or  otherwise. 

More  than  five  hundred  missionaries, 
former  students  in  the  Institute,  are  now  labouring  in 
China,  India,  Syria,  Armenia,  Egypt ;  in  France, 
Spain,  Portugal,  Italy;  East,  West,  North,  South,  and 
Central  Africa,  in  Natal  and  Cape  Colony  ;  in  Prince 
Edward's  Isle,  Cape  Breton,  Canada,  and  the  Western 
States  of  America  ;  in  the  West  Indies,  Brazil,  and 
the  Argentine  Republic  ;  in  Australia  and  New 
Zealand  ;  as  well  as  in  various  parts  of  the  home 
mission  field.  The  object  of  the  Institute  is  especially 
to  send  evangelists  to  "  the  regions  beyond  "  those 
already  evangelized. 

One  hundred  and  twenty  students  are  now 
in  training,  and  some  of  their  number  are  continually 
passing  out  into  the  great  world-field.  One  every 
week,  on  an  average,  enters  on  active  missionary  life. 

Contributions  in  aid  of  any  of  the  objects  of  tlie  Institute  may  l)e 
sent  eitlier  to  the  Treasurer,  Sik  ARTHUR  Blackwood,  K.C.B., 
Shortlands  House,  Shortlaniis,  Kent;  or  to  the  Secretary,  Mrs.  H. 
Grattan  Guinness,  Harley  House,  Bow,  London,  E.,  from  vvliom 
fuller  information  can  be  had  on  application. 


AA'D    CONGO   BALOLO  MISSION.  535 


is  formed  for  the  evangelization  of  the  millions  of  Balolo  people 
dwelling  in  the  great  horseshoe-shaped  territory  of  the  Upper  Congo, 
and  accessible  by  its  southern  affluents,  the  Lulonga,  Lopori,  Maringa, 
Ikelemba,  Juapa,  and  Bosira. 

It  is  a  continuation  and  extension  of  the  Livingstone  Inland  Mission, 
commenced  in  1878,  and  now  occupying  and  working  a  chain  of  seven 
Stations  from  the  Coast  to  the  Equator. 

It  was  founded  in  the  spring  of  1889,  and  has  eleven  Missionaries, 
two  Stations,  and  the  steamer  Pioneer. 


DIRECTORATE. 

The  Managers  of  the  East  London  Institute. 

TREASURER. 

Sir  Arthur  Blackwood,  K.C.B.,  Shortlands  House,  Kent. 

BANKERS. 

The  London  and  County  Banking  Company,  Limited, 
Lombard  Street,  E.C. 

HON.  AUDITORS. 
Arthur  J.   Hilt,  Vellacott  &  Co.,   Finsbuiy  Circus. 

HON.  SECRETARY. 
H.  Grattan  Guinness,  Jun.,  M.R.C.S.,  Harley  House,  Bow,  E. 

ADVISORY  COUNCIL. 
Rev.  Archibald  G.  Brown,  22,  Bow  Road,  E. 
P.   S.  Badenoch,  Esq.,  Mildmay  Conference  Hall,  N. 
Richard  Cory,  Esq.,  Oscar  House,  Cardiff. 
Dr.   H.  Grattan   and    Mrs.    Guinness,  Cliff  House,   Curbar,    vi& 

Sheffield. 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  H.  Grattan  Guinness,  Jun.,  Harley  House,  Bow,  E. 
Miss  L.  Guinness,  Cliff  House,  Curbar,  vid  Sheffield. 
Richard  Hill,  Esq.,  3,  Lombard  Court,  E.C. 
E.  J.  Kennedy,  Esq.,  Exeter  Hall,  W.C. 
Dr.  Macrae,  i,  Bow  Road,  E. 
W.  Seagram,  Esq.,  86,  Ticcadilly,  \V. 


Jii^l  rul'lisht-ii.      Se,-oiid  iU!  I  nt!ar     '    ' 


Coloured  Map,  Portrait,  and  minicrous  Illustrations.  In  cloth,  price 
5^.  Direct  from  Ilarley  House,  post  free,  y.  61/.  In  boards, 
4r. ;  post  free,  2s.  6d. 

"  Instinct  with  life.  Vet  all  is  told  so  gently  and  with  such  efifusive- 
ness  of  love  for  the  work,  that  many,  we  hope,  may  be  led  to  recognise 
the  beauty  of  individual  self-devotion,  animated  by  a  principle  so  lofty 
as  to  be  able  to  sustain  itself  undaunted,  in  view  of  difficulties  that,  to 
human  sight,  might  well  be  deemed  invincible.  The  volume  is  beauti- 
fully illustrated." — Scottish  Guardian. 

"  A  beautifully  prepared  and  tastefully  illustrated  book  on  Chinese 
mission  work.     The  evident   sincerity  breathed   in  every  line,  and  the 


spiritual  needs  of  the  vast  Chinese  empire  lying  as  a  heavy  burden  on 
the  writer's  heart,  find  constant  expression  in  burning  words  of  self- 
consecration  and  ai^peal." — Methodist  Recorder. 

"Very  bright  and  graphic  letters,  .  .  .  charmingly  'got  up,' 
under  skilful  editorship ;  .  .  .  altogether  most  attractive.  The 
very  thing  to  read  aloud." — Chiireli  Alissionary  Intelligencer. 

"  A  choice  and  dainty  volume,  beautifully  illustrated  with  pictures 
of  Chinese  life  and  scenery.  The  letters  are  worthy  of  the  setting, 
being  natural  and  picturesque  descriptions  of  missionary  travel,  life, 
and  work,  bringing  China  and  its  millions  home  to  us  in  all  their  need. 
The  tone  is  high  and  earnest." — Church  of  Scotland  Jl/ission  Record. 

"  I  have  been  dipping  into  your  so  beautiful  '  In  the  Far  East,'  with 
my  dim,  dim  eyes." — Dr.  David  Brown. 

"  Thank  you  most  sincerely  for  sending  me  this  book.  I  have  read 
it  with  great  interest,  and  will  do  what  little  is  in  my  power  to  make 
its  burning  pages  known." — Professor  Henrv  Driinimond. 

"  The  best  account  of  the  first  experiences  of  China  to  a  traveller 
and  missionaiy  that  I  have  ever  met  with  ;  altogether  beside  their 
value  for  deep  piety.  The  extreme  taste  and  beauty  of  the  illustrations 
and  general  get  up  of  the  volume  leave  nothing  to  be  desired." — R<.v. 
F.  B.  Meyer,  J/.A. 

"I  have  greatly  enjoyed  'In  the  Far  East.'  God  blessing  it,  the 
book  should  send  armies  of  believers  to  invade  the  Flowery  Land. 
Your  sister  is  happy  in  her  editor.  God  bless  you,  and  all  the  beloved 
household.     Yours  heartily."^ — C.  H.  Sfurgeon. 

"The  gift  of  writing  well  for  the  great  cause  of  missions,  joined 
with  the  consecrated  art  of  working  well  therefor,  we  see  admirably 
exhibited  in  this  little  volume.  The  earlier  letters  of  the  collection  we 
were  privileged  to  hear  read  in  the  English  home  from  which  the 
beloved  daughter  went  forth,  and  to  which  she  sent  back  these  glowing 
records  of  her  evangelistic  journeyings  and  labours.  We  were  deeply 
impressed  then,  as  we  have  been  in  the  re-reading,  with  the  graphic 
beauty  and  evangelical  richness  of  these  missionary  epistles.  They 
are  worthy  of  publication  for  the  spirit  which  is  in  them,  for  the  in- 
formation which  they  convey,  and  for  the  fire  which  they  are  sure  to 
communicate  to  Christian  hearts  by  the  burning  zeal  which  kindles  in 
their  every  word  and  sentence.  "-^A.  J.  Cordon. 


537 


The  foHo\i.>i lis;  works f  in  various  Coii^o  lait^:;iia;^es,  have  bden  prepared, 
amoin;  others,  l>y  members  of  the  mission  : 

A    SMALL   DICTIONARY    OF   THE    LANGUAGE    (English-Congo   and   Congo- 

Kiii;li^li) ;  tM^ctticr  with  a  li-^t  of  useful  sentences  for  Missionaries  and  Travellers 

in  llie  Cont;u  Cataract  Region,     by  the   late  He.skv  Ckaven  and  John   Bak- 

HELU,  B.A.     248  pages. 
THE  FIRST  EPISTLE  OF  JOHN,  EXODUS  XX.,  AND  GENESIS  L-IU.    Trans- 

l.itt-J  into  Ki  koii^;u.     Hy  I'.  H.  H(^sTt;. 
A  VOCABULARY  OF   KILOLO,   as  spoken  by  the  Bankundu,  a  section  of  the 

r.aloio  tribe,  at   Ikcnyu  (Kqualor),    L'pper   Congo.     With  a  few  Introductory 

Notes  on  the  <  Iraiiiiiiar.      Ijy  J.  \'>.  KuuiE.     200  pages. 
A  GRAMMAR  OF  THE  CONGO  LANGUAGE,  as  spoken  200  years  ago.    Trans- 
lated from  the  Latin  of  Brusciotto.     Edited  by  H.  Grattan  Guinness,  D.D. 

112  pages. 
A  GRAMMAR  OF   THE  CONGO   LANGUAGE,  as   now  spoken  in  the   Cataract 

Kei;iuii  bel'jw  .St.iiilcy  I'ljul.     I'.y  }1.  (Jkatta.-j  Gl'INNESS,  D.D.    267  pages,  8vo. 
MOSAIC  HISTORY  AND  GOSPEL  STORY,  Epitomised  in  the  Congo  Language. 

11\-  II.  (;k.\i  IAN  (ji  i.NN'Kss,  J^.D.      S7  iniges,  bvo. 
THE  CONCORDS  OF  THE  CONGO  LANGUAGE.      Being  a  Contribution  to  the 

.Syiuax  of  the  Congo  Tongue.    Ky  Joii.n  Uakheld,  K.A.     160  pages,  small  8vo. 
THE  PEEP  OF  DAY,  translated  into  the  Ki-kongo  Language.     By  J.  B.  Eddie. 
THE  PEEP  OF  DAY,  transl.ited  into  N'Kundu,  a  dialect  of  the   Kilolo  Language, 

as  spoken  at  tlic  Equator,  Upper  Congo.     By  J.  B.  Eddie,     izo  pages. 
THE    GOSPEL   OF   ST.    MARK,   translated  into  the   Ki-kongo   Language.      By 

C  H.  H  AKVKV.     90  ])aj;es. 
KIBANGI  VOCABULARY.     By  A.  Sims,  M.B.     1 11  pages. 
YALULEMA  VOCABULARY.     By  A.  Sims,  M.B.     35  pages. 
CONGO  READING  BOOK.     96  pages. 
THE  GOSPEL  OF  ST.  LUKE,  translated  into  the  Ki-kongo  Language.     By  H. 

RitHAKUs.     154  pages. 
ST.  MATTHEW  V.-VIL  {Mataioiia),  translated  into  Ki-konco. 
EXODUS  (U'aziaikiilti),  translated    into  Ki-kongo.      By  CiiAS.   E.    I.ngh.^m.     89 
pages.  

Tii/o  Reading  Books,  compiled  by  C.  E.  I.N'GHAM,  consist  of  the 
follo'ii'tng : 

No.  1.     HOME  LESSONS,  by  Mrs.  I.NGHAM.     Short  Sentences,  etc.     Collection  of 

Congo  Fables. 
No.  2.     HOME  LESSONS.     Genesis  i.-iii.  ;  Romans  i.,  ii.  ;  Luke  i.,  ii.  ;  Sermon  on 

Mount ;  Romans  viii.  ;  Hymns. 


1.  GENESIS  I.-XXn.    By  C.  E.  Ingham. 

2.  MATTHEW  I.-XI.    By  H.  Richards. 

3.  JOHN'S  GOSPEL.     By  Westli.nd,  S.M.S. 

4.  MARK'S  GOSPEL.     I'.y  Camkko.v,  of  B.M.S. 

5.  THE  ACTS  OF  THE  APOSTLES.     By  Nkoivo,  A.B.M.U. 

6.  KITEKE  VOCABULARY.     By  A.  Sims,  M.B.     As  spoken  by  the   Beteke  and 

kindred  tribes  of  the  Upper  Congo.      190  pages. 

7.  THE    EPISTLE    TO    THE    ROMANS.    By   H.   Grattan    Guinness,    D.D., 

assisted  by  Nkoivd. 

8.  THE  FIRST  EPISTLE  OF  JOHN.    By  H.  Grattan  Guinness,  D.D.,  assisted 

by  Nkoivo. 

9.  JOHN'S  GOSPEL.     By  A.  Si.ms,  M.U.     Translated  into  Kitekc. 


■-J 


^^ 


?^^fc:^^ 


^^' 


'mUMI.^ ., 


1  \ 


K      A36  F 


S  h  i  1,  1  WL  k 


Sakangt 

~->,  Sangtif< 


D  b  u  1 1  u  "^??.6«li 


■iAnit/ 


'.y 


L.Bassonek,k';   ^■^^:^' 


T  U  RKA  N; 


KI  D  I       ._^ -»  V 


Kt  (ia^?«; 


Gnlmlai'a  TV 
^jnpi'ti'li  Awrtiuiadia 


^^TSiiwl,, 


•Ibamhi  "\\  II  11  a  *  , 


^'"^'i^A 


j'S-v.T,    A    T 


/  ^r  /  *"ia«  :„;-i  -  ^4I^^vf^ '  Y  A  N  Z  A  ^ 

•^  /  »        Is  <     \>,.  fSK"  ^/     IJlBainbiixO.I.        ;»  ^"T^ 


>   M.^"? 


Maleamba 


»v*> 


..•^4iu.<^ 


'  ■•.   Viator     ['<?«; 

"^        y      S,\i 


A.,-..vW-'' 


M!  Kifi'iii 


•^. 


',,Jol(l,I,alu'; 


Tnjr&Aj^ 


M  ;•  n  n  i^  M  It  h  a  I  • 

j^  /       L-(i  or.  o  iX' 


-^VUm^u... 


- ,  ,',  •  i'  -''  Zununhe.'  ■    '^ .    .,„^ 


■i3fpnnBwe 


nt>'^^   -a:-. 


„'n£i€j^ 


if**,NS 


c«5 


^7a3F=^._j-^:,-*'-.-w*r 


'Mo  MlJruLv'      .,  >t?    <• 


,Ofl..ni.4vt>  >US.  n  E  >■  i;^ 


9"-.-/^M<.lilia  1. 


WEoruwu^A 


Iff/i/ui,    '•S^„„,l„   r  J. 


^UU^ 


tiiJ/f4t  Quiso»a     \         ^ 


M  a  ^  wT   a  V   g  w  a' 


W./ 


S  .Vi-H'ii/u  ..<i»>ii 


m,/u«i..  ff 

ViAv/i./.iiiv  i 

■)lliillm\,i  II.    «,M 

■  .,  ..•.TV'"""'"-' " 


'nlnjisa.      ^-i^  ""Swffo  /. 


:^.'i 


u :  1.  A  IJ  A 


M<mil>.'r:<  .V^WuOil 


i,qiu., 


'5}av^ 


'( '•■ 

•ft"'*"  V-alw 


m-.i, 


6000-7000    t-    •, 


^.--^0 


au/Jl-i.       I   '.Kfilnl.-.,  K..I,o.„|,.,  V\?w/)lV'<'     '. 

,•  i,  '  L{,„„;,il  11.;.'*''  m'  M"""ii.Mi».-  M'.'  ■\',  \  Stvw/ '.»' 

a-M    ^    .  I,     .        -A  LL»  B.iAu  i<(ycii..ii.^  {     ^      -y.      i.3-^ —    I  X    V,;.--  /^- 


'UnmndoM  ^S 


t!5J«,? 


D..,H  'l^ 


lie     B.  'p  n  y  i-    1     i    ■■')•..     y^ 


Sitanda 


"'%-i,„„ 


^  ,^... MJjU, 


„,  V'Tll 
A  ?ili. 


\Mi\lrln 


'ZL 


»tu,ih\^.     \l\ui,lii\l 


'tfciiO*  V"""'"''  " 


MkubiT  ,    J! 


,'    %'  NhdJiyP^  ,'      K„nu,/ 


■&;■■' 


iStuulonkll.i.ilin.hlii  II  ! 


>.  ij  ,U' '■••:>" 


'S 


,T,I'UJ„  //Jjl,,>,il,i,/,„il,„    I. 

>;i«m»/jjil\,i<  Muzdiiihiiii 


.A^u 


^^4.j;l^ 


S 


yt^t'^j 


^"T/lflflTn 


:StS*'*'' 


\.  ^ 


jl    N*7^  Nf*  *    <5'  linuftiPrte'niuU.Ama——  limyo  fra,  .SUiIr. ^J 

^Js^^^^*^^     ''^     ■/         Siatirwt  rf  IJi' Arncrira/t' li{tpli/d  Muininruiiy  Untun^lio^n,  Iffua  ^t 
if^^^i^''^  <•  HlnliuH^  arihi-  liapUM  Mimiauiiy  Smi-lf  iKnglinh.j        „  O 

'<\fi^         ^y-C--f<,''^''   <&  Tluim>l>itmlniily>ayiimi,MiitiiiUU,.SliildijIlivl.«hi.milJius..:n.„ 

/  I  ^■^^'fi'^^'O^  The  proponed  SluiJvnJi  of  the  EnijliakAuw. -OnufoBtih)Ui  Mission    ^ 


loiiilci,    l-.,l,v,„,,l 


I 


Stanloia  L\i  &  27  i-.Hksimr  S'..nariiis  ''^»«-  S-W. 


Stofi^rcUs    Gcog^  £sinh*  Lon/jban. 


rONGO     RIVBRbSS 

ion  ,4i/,. 


^ 


.K?*,  ^^„  .^^' 


u^-ii^i>- vp'!^'^    '  '■■■ 


:lC>'     D. 


ffuem  Pubfi  IMmt  Ii.,AJi^ 

:er,-n^'<fs.<;fl:..-fR-     / 


ItK  LOAS 

Coanza 


Motto Sp-}^    .■'^^jtl,'\"p'}     -■•:s 


Tunh* 
Novo  Redondo 
Qnicorul« 


il>J^ 


■.Vo,Vo-....' 


'  ■  IV  .^■Miiil'a    ;     '.,        "      .>  "ill 


CEirTii/.v 


I  Yu,],  , 


I 


Sadr,  1:  r..!l77.; 


'tolholi. 


; 


GERMAN 


,'  Jcfthntrin*    .^ 

P    R   6    T    £,  C     T    0    R    A    T     E 


!  Nujene  Ptrto  Rksson^o". 


n^tKidimla  :  j^ 


A  '^Z. 


■\EMamba    .- -.  ■-■■K^Kjn".'*"»     f!""-"'       •■.-') 


jf,«i;ju™V  ;;  ><ifci 


>/' 


4  ^      r^...--^Lj;//^m  j 


A 


\l.r„<ramU  -^     '  4 


■Acunueo«.     ,  ;      ;  ii  iV 


-         '-  '    "^SlilnU'mKiilHimim 

tll.J.riH'*  ;   ^f<lnnluulxp  MV 


B   p  r  w  D  A       <)ii' 
B    a  X-  ■()..  t    s    e 


L.  ir,  T  O   H  A   S    I 


i .   «i    b  W  c  "si    1  '■  a 

I^uiubiT' 
X  It  (r  111  b  n 


0, 1  *  Varuupre 


'«>-, 


-x..;- 


1)  t)  N    C.   A 

htt/imttr  --^ 

b  V     1     K    I-    A    N     O    A    It    A 

^tiU""      .ili,,imlo       '*"'"'' -ifc^S^ 
1         lIATKOlJif      '*^*" 


'  K  H  A  M  a"  S  'v  y       M. 


/  «•  O  U  N  T  R-Y 


KdwiiKl  Siiiiii;.ir)  26  &27  Oicltupur  Si,Charing  Cross.  S.W. 


•al 


BINDBM:     -t    may  29  1974 


PLEASE  DO  NOT  REMOVE 
CARDS  OR  SLIPS  FROM  THIS  POCKET 

UNIVERSITY  OF  TORONTO  LIBRARY 


BV       Guinness,  Fanny  Emma(Fitz 
3520      Gerald) 

G8  The  new  world  of  Central 

Africa 


i^ 


