REGIONS    BEYOND    MISSIONARY    UNION. 


704 


Ex.  Libris 

THE  CANADIAN 


HONORABLE    S.  H.   BLAKE,   K.C. 


CAVfcN    LIBRARY 

KNOX  COLLEGE 

TORONTO 


THE  REV.  H.  GRATTAN  GUINNESS,  D.D.,  F.R.A.S., 
Founder  of  the  Regions  Beyond  Missionary  Union, 


NOT  UNTO  Us 


A   RECORD  OF 
TWENTY- ONE    YEARS' 
MISSIONARY  SERVICE. 


DR.  HARRY  GUINNESS. 


"  Not  unto  us,  O  Lord,  not  unto  us,  but  unto  Thy  Name 

give  praise. " 


REGIONS     BEYOND     MISSIONARY     UNION, 

HARLEY  HOUSE,  BOW, 
LONDON,  E. 


CAVEN 

KNOX  COLLEGE 


m.    f*  kl  T  rt 


31704 


Contents. 


Foreword  9 

Introduction        ...  " 

PART    I. 

Missionaries  in  the  Making  35 

THE  LIFE  OF  A  HARLEY  MAN           ...  ...  ...             ...             ...           39 

ON  MENTAL  CULTURE          ...             ...  ...  ...                                         43 

OUR  DEACONESSES...             ...             ...  ...  47 

A  PRACTICAL  MINISTRY        ...             ...  ...  ...             ...             ...           51 

PART    II. 

Amongst  the  People  at  Berger  Hall  59 

"A  CHURCH  OF  THE  PEOPLE"          ...  ...  ...             ...             ...           60 

DANIEL  HAYES        ...             ...             ...  ...  ...             ...             ...           63 

PART    III. 

The  Conflict  in  Congoland  65 

A  GLANCE  AT  OUR  SPHERE                 ...  ...  ...             ...             ...           67 

How  WE  ENTERED  THE  LAND         ...  ...  ...             ...             ...           71 

PIONEERING  WORK                ...             ...  ...  ...             ...             ...           79 

IN  THE  MIDST  OF  SLEEPING  SICKNESS  ...  ...             ...             ...           93 

THE  CONGO  OF  TO-MORROW                ...  ...  ...             ...             ...           99 

AN  OUTSIDER'S  VIEW           ..              ...  ...  ...             ...             ...         105 

PART    IV. 

In  South  America  at  the  Opportune  Moment     ...  ...         113 

HOW    WE    CAME    TO    ENTER    SOUTH    AMERICA      ...  ...  ...                   ...             115 

IN  ARGENTINA — A  LAND  OF  HOPE    ...  ...  ...             ...             ...         116 

,,            ,,        — DO  THEY  NEED  US?...  ...  ...             ...             ...         129 

OUR  PARISH  IN  PERU            ...             ...  ...  ...             ...             ...         135 

THE  PIONEERS  OF   PROTESTANTISM    ...  ...  ...             ...             ...         138 

THE  PROSPECT         ...             ...             ...  ...  ...             ...             ...         141 

"  Los  PROPAGANDISTAS  "     ...             ...  ...  ...             ...             ...         144 

OUR  PRAYER  CORPS              ...             ...  ...  ...             ...             ...         150 

PART    V. 

In  a  Neglected  Corner  of  India    ...  ...  ...            ...         151 

OUR  INDIAN  EMPIRE             ...             ...  ...  ...             ...             ...         153 

IN    BEHAR...             ...             ...             ...  ...  ...             ...             ...          159 

PART    VI. 

Living  Links  with  the  Regions  Beyond  ...  ...  ...         167 

THE  WHITE  BABY  ...             ...             ...  ...  ...             ...             ...         169 

PART    VII. 

Our  Helpers'  Union  ...  ...         177 

PART    VIII. 

God's  Faithfulness  and  Our  Need  ...  ...            ...            ...         181 

How  THE  MONEY  COMES    ...             ...  ...  ...             ...             ...         183 


The  photographs  of  the  late  Mrs.  H.  Grattan 
Guinness,  Sen.,  the  Rev.  George  Hanson,  D.D., 
and  Sir  Andrew  Wingate,  on  pp.  12  and  25, 
are  by  Messrs.  Elliott  &  Fry  ;  those  of  Dr.  and 
Mrs.  Harry  Guinness,  Miss  Geraldine  Guinness, 
the  Rev.  J.  Westbury  Jones  and  Professor 
Richardson,  on  pp.  18,  19,  20  and  36  are  by 
the  Stereoscopic  Company,  London ;  and  those 
of  the  Rev.  J.  Stuart  Holden,  M.A.,  Principal 
Jackson  and  Mr.  Schofield,  on  pp.  25  and  36, 
by  Messrs.  Russell  <f  Sons. 


Foreword. 

seems  hard  to  believe  that  twenty-one  years  have 
actually  fled  since  that  snowy  day  in  March, 
1887 — our  wedding  day  1  In  anticipation,  one  and 
twenty  years  seemed  almost  a  lifetime, —  in  retrospect, 
how  brief !  And  surely  it  is  well  to  pause  at  vantage 
points  such  as  this  "  Coming  of  Age,"  to  review  the 
panorama  of  God's  goodness,  and  to  erect  our  altar  of 
grateful  praise.  We,  too,  would  bring  our  stones  from 
Jordan's  bed,  to  remind  the  generation  following  "  What 
God  hath  wrought/' 

In  venturing  thus  to  gaze  over  the  years,  and  note 
the  outworking  of  the  divine  purpose,  we  desire  to 
emphasize  the  goings  of  God,  rather  than  the  doings  of 
man.  And  yet  after  all  these  cannot  be  divorced.  So 
in  these  pages  we  will  not  attempt  to  sunder  what  God 
hath  joined  together.  All  that  is  permanent  is  "  of  Him," 
and  "  to  Him "  alone  be  the  glory ! 

"Not  unto  us,  O  Lord,  not  unto  us,  but  unto  Thy 
Name  give  praise."  For  if  of  mercy  fruit  be  found  upon 
the  branches,  it  is  only  because  Thou  art  the  Vine,  and 
all  things  are  of  Thee. 

H.  GRATTAN  GUINNESS, 

M.D. 

June,  J908. 


Introduction. 


sljalt  remember  all  tlje  toa|j  taljidj  tlj*  lorb 
lift  tfrtt." 


INCE  this  book  may  fall  into  the  hands  of  many  who  are  unacquain- 


ted  with  the  origin  of  the  work  to  which  we  have  devoted  the  last 
twenty-one  years,  I  venture  to  give  in  this  introductory  chapter 
a  few  historical  paragraphs. 
Its  beloved  founder,  whose  excellent  portrait,  taken  at  Brisbane,  is 
reproduced  as  our  frontispiece,  looks  back  not  merely  on  twenty-one  years 
of  contact  with  student  life,  but  on  twice  that  period.  Exactly  twenty- 
one  years  before  1887,  when  in  the  midst  of  his  evangelistic  labours,  he 
established  a  class  for  young  men  in  the  city  of  Dublin  with  the  object  of 
studying  with  them,  Paley's  HOYCB  Paulines.  As  it  turned  out,  this  class 
foreshadowed  the  Institute  yet  to  be,  and  among  the  Irish  students  of 
those  days  were  two  young  men  destined  to  occupy  important  spheres  of 
service — Thomas  J.  Barnardo  and  John  McCarthy,  subsequently  of  the 
China  Inland  Mission.  In  the  providence  of  GOD,  Hudson  Taylor  was 
invited  to  address  the  class,  with  the  result  that  several  men  were  led  to 
offer  for  the  foreign  field.  Young  Barnardo  afterwards  went  to  London 
in  order  to  train  as  a  medical  missionary,  but  during  his  hospital  career 
he  was  brought  into  contact  with  the  appalling  problem  of  neglected 
childhood,  the  solution  of  which  was  destined  eventually  to  claim  his  life- 
service. 

*  *  * 

After  twelve  years  of  indefatigable  and  successful  mission  work  on  both 
sides  of  the  Atlantic,  and  on  the  Continent  of  Europe,  my  beloved  parents, 
moved  by  the  condition  of  the  heathen  world,  themselves  volunteered  for 
missionary  effort  in  China.  Being,  however,  somewhat  debarred  by  age 
from  acquiring  the  intricacies  of  the  difficult  language,  they  were  eventually 
led,  partly  through  the  advice  of  the  Rev.  J.  Hudson  Taylor,  to  the  estab 
lishment  in  1873  of  a  Training  Institute  in  East  London,  where  men  of 


"NOT     UNTO     US." 


. 


various  denominations  might  be  prepared  for  the  Master's  service  at  home 

or  abroad. 

The  growth  of  this   movement,    known  as   the   East  London  Training 

Institute  for  Home  and  Foreign  Missions,  was  from  the   first  remarkable, 

By  1874,  the 
earliest  home  at  29, 
1  Stepney  Green,  had 
already  become 
too  small  for  the 
work,  which,  in 
consequence,  was 
moved  to  Harley 
House  ;  and  in  the 
following  year,  Cliff 
College,  Derby 
shire,  was  added. 
In  1879,  Harley 
College  was  built, 
at  the  lower  end  of 
the  ample  garden 
in  Bow,  and  thus, 
within  six  years  of 
the  foundation  of 
the  movement,  it 
stood  possessed  of 
two  capital  build 
ings  for  the  training 
of  men.  Doric 
Lodge,  an  institu- 
THE  LATE  MRS.  H.  GRATTAN  GUINNESS.  tion  for  the  pre 

paration    of     lady 

missionaries,  was  added  by  my  mother  in  1884,  and  has  continued  ever 

since  to  do  invaluable  service. 

*  *  * 

The  actual  development  of  foreign  missionary  work  as  an  integral  part 
of  the  movement,  dates  from  1878,  when,  in  association  with  a  small  com 
mittee  of  friends,  my  parents  undertook  the  formation  of  the  Livingstone 
Inland  Mission  to  the  Congo.  The  name  was  intended  to  suggest  both  a 
noble  example,  and  a  definite  aim,  and  the  early  workers  who  went  forth 
from  our  midst  proved  worthy  followers  of  the  great-hearted  Scotsman 


INTRODUCTION. 


CLIFF  COLLEGE,'  'DERBYSHIRE. 


who  died  on  bended  knees  by  Bangweolo's  shore.  They  founded  station 
after  station  on  the  Lower  Congo,  and  in  the  Cataract  Region,  reaching 
Stanley  Pool  on  the  Upper  River  after  years  of  toil  and  suffering.  Then, 
by  means  of  the  ss.  "  Henry  Reed,"  they  carried  the  Gospel  as  far  north 
as  the  Equator.  In  spite  of  frequent  sickness,  and  deaths  oft,  these  early 
missionaries  struggled  on  with  a  most  admirable  heroism,  until  Pente 
costal  blessing  crowned  their  labours  and  another  chapter  was  added  to 
the'miracle  of  modern  missions. 


DR.   HARRY  GUINNESS  IN   1887. 


"NOT     UNTO     US." 

In  1884  the  movement,  then  six 
years  old,  was  handed  over  to  the 
American  Baptist  Missionary 
Union,  as  the  responsibilities  in 
connection  with  its  prosecution 
had  grown  too  heavy  for  the 
hands  of  my  beloved  Mother, 
the  Honorary  Secretary  of  the 
Mission.  The  Swedish  brethren 
in  our  ranks,  when  the  Mission 
passed  under  American  manage 
ment,  formed  themselves  into  a 
separate  society,  and  have  since 
done  blessed  and  important  work 
on  the  north  bank  of  the  Cataract 

Region  of  the  Congo.  One  of  their  number,  Neils  Westlind,  translated 
the  whole  of  the  New  Testament,  and  he  and  others  have  gathered 
thousands  of  converts  into  the  Kingdom  of  GOD. 

*  *  * 

Brought  up  in  the  atmosphere  of  this  world- wide  interest,  it  was  not 
surprising  that  each  member  of  our  family  should,  in  the  long  run,  become 
identified  with  the  cause  of  foreign  missions.  With  the  object  of  preparing 
for  medical  missionary  service,  should  this  be  the  LORD'S  will  for  me,  I 
entered  the  London  Hospital  in  1880,  and  on  the  completion  of  my  medical 
studies,  five  years  later,  the  way  providentially  opened  for  me  to  spend 
nearly  two  years  in  evangelistic  labour  in  Australia  and  Tasmania.  These 
were  days  of  never-to-be-forgotten  blessing,  fruits  of  which  still  remain 
to  the  glory  of  GOD.  The  open  and  effectual  door  granted  to  the  preaching 
of  the  Word  caused  me  sometimes  to  wonder  whether  I  was  called  of  GOD 
to  the  life  of  an  evangelist  to  English-speaking  peoples,  rather  than  to  labour 
in  the  foreign  field  ;  but  the  problem,  through  divine  guidance,  had  another 
solution. 

In  March,  1887  ,1  was  united  in  marriage  to  Miss  Annie  Reed,  the  daughter 
of  the  late  Henry  Reed,  Esq.,  so  well-known  alike  for  his  Christian  philan 
thropy  and  for  his  fearless  proclamation  of  the  Gospel  in  Tasmania  and  the 
old  country.  Both  to  Mrs.  Guinness  and  myself,  the  fact  that  my  parents 
had  for  some  time  been  seeking  partners  in  the  conduct  of  the  Institute 
and  had  found  none,  specially  appealed,  and  in  response  to  their  earnest 
desire  that  we  should  share  their  burdens,  and  constrained  by  a  profound 
sense  of  the  divine  call,  we  settled  down  as  "  London  Director,"  and 


MRS.   HARRY  GUINNESS,  WITH  HER  MOTHER,  MRS.  REED,   IN   1887. 


NOT     UNTO     US." 


r\ 


G 


"  Honorary  Secretary  "  in  the  old  East  London  home  of  my  boyhood,  thus 
enabling  the  beloved  parents  to  live  at  Cliff  College,  in  Derbyshire,  the 

beautiful  country  branch  of  the  Institution. 

*  *  * 

And  now, — Cliff  has  passed  into  other  hands,  good  hands,  doing  noble 
service.  It  was  a  terrible  wrench  to  part  with  the  old  place, 
endeared  to  us  all  by  a  thousand  ties.  GOD'S  will  in  the  matter,  however, 

was  made  very 
plain.  As  one 
result  of  the  Boer 
war,  applicants 
for  missionary 
training  seriously 
decreased  in 
number, — funds, 
too,  were  exceed 
ingly  low.  This 
combination  o  f 
circumstances 
suggested  the 
propriety  of  con 
centrating  Col 
lege  work  in 
London,  with  a 
view  to  simplici 
ty,  economy,  and 
efficiency,  and 
this  step  taken 
in  1901  has  since 
been  abundantly 
justified.  At  this 
juncture  it  be 
came  known  to 
us  that  the  Rev. 
Thomas  Cook 
was  seeking  such 
a  centre  as  Cliff 
for  the  perma 
nent  establish 
ment  of  the 


LUCY  GUINNESS  KUMM  AND  HER  TWO  LITTLE  SONS. 


INTRODUCTION.  17 

"  Joyful  News  Mission,"  founded  by  the  late  Rev.  Thomas  Champness, 
and  earned  on  in  view  of  the  needs  of  the  villages  of  our  own  land.  To  him, 
eventually,  the  property  was  sold  by  the  trustees,  and  in  his  hands  new 
buildings  of  importance  have  been  erected,  and  splendid  work  is  being  done 
in  the  old  place,  where  Wesleyan  Methodism  has  found  a  paradise  for  its  lay 
evangelists  during  term  time,  and  for  its  visitors  during  the  pleasant  months 
of  summer.  We  rejoice  that  the  Rev.  Samuel  Chadwick,  of  Leeds,  is  now 
associated  with  the  Rev.  Thomas  Cook  in  this  work  of  training  village 

missioners. 

*  *  * 

Down  by  the  flowing  Derwent,  where  the  branches  droop  over  the  stream, 
and  the  old  church  at  Baslow  stands  in  the  midst  of  its  quiet  GoD'sracre, 
has  stood  for  ten  years  the  white  cross  which  perpetuates  the  memory  of  the 
"  Mother  of  the  Congo," — and  my  Mother  ! 

What  she  was  to  this  movement,  I  cannot  venture  to  describe,  but 
when  she  was  compelled  by  paralysis  to  lay  down  the  unwearying  pen  which 
hitherto,  under  GOD,  had  been  the  mainstay  of  the  work,  she  watched  the 
passing  of  responsibilities  into  other  hands,  with  a  joy  as  touching  as  it 
was  beautiful  to  behold. 

On  every  recollection  of  that  noble  life  of  loving  service,  her  children 
rise  up  to  call  her  blessed,  happy  if  they  may  be  privileged  to  follow  in 

her  steps. 

*  *  * 

Another  loved  one  whose  pen  contributed  powerfully  to  the  success 
of  "  Regions  Beyond  "  has  left  our  side, — my  dear  sister,  Lucy  Kumm. 
Her  quenchless  zeal  and  devotion  for  the  unreached  and  neglected  millions 
of  mankind  was,  in  my  experience,  unique  ;  and  imparted  to  her  writing, 
beyond  the  pathos  and  brilliance  which  always  characterized  it,  a  certain 
quality  of  inspiration,  which  was  formative  and  permanent  in  its  results. 
In  this  way,  hers  was  a  most  important  share  in  the  initiation  of  missionary 
movements  in  South  America  and  India. 

Her  little  boys  are  full  of  promise,  and  the  vast  Sudan,  to  which,  with 
her  gifted'^husband,  she  gave  her  closing  years,  has  made  the  voice  of  its 
need  known  the  wide  world  o'er. 

*  *  * 

As  to  the  beloved  Founder  of  the  "  Institute,"  which  has  grown  into  the 
Union  of  to-day,  the  honoured  Father  whose  pen  and  voice  have  reached 
the  world, — who,  in  a  paragraph  or  two  could  sketch  the  work  accomplished 
by  him  during  this  stretch  of  twenty-one  years  ? 

Just  a  few  outstanding  facts  may  be  recorded.     Driven  by  ill-health  to 


18 


NOT     UNTO     US.  ' 


seek  a  warmer  climate,  he  spent  1889  in  the  United  States,  travelling  as 
far  as  California  and  Mexico.  In  the  following  year,  he  returned  once 
more  to  the  States,  preaching  wherever  he  went.  As  one  visible  result  of 
these  visits,  two  Bible  Schools  sprang  into  existence.  One  in  Minneapolis, 
presided  over  by  Dr.  Henry  Mabie,  who  subsequently  became  the  dis 
tinguished  Secretary  of  the  American  Baptist  Missionary  Union, — the 
second  at  Clarendon  Street,  Boston,  under  the  guidance  of  the  late  Dr.  A.  J. 
Gordon,  a  friend 


and  admirer  of  my 
father,  and  himself 
one  of  the  noblest 
of  men.  These 
Bible  Schools  have 
gone  on  ever  since, 
and  accomplished 
a  valuable  work. 
The  missionary 
addresses  de 
livered  at  a 
Convention  of 
Y.M.C.A.  Secre 
taries  in  Kansas, 
resulted  in  a  new 
missionary  move 
ment,  which  gave 
birth,  inter  alia,  to 
a  small  mission 
in  the  Sudan. 
That  my  Father, 
who  in  association 
with  my  Mother, 
and  a  group  of 
Welsh  friends,  had 
originated  work  on 
the  Congo  in  1878, 
should  nowbe  used 
of  GOD  to  arouse 
missionary  enthu 
siasm  for  the 
Sudan,  on  both 


CJ 


\r 


MRS    HARRY  GUINNESS,   1908. 


INTRODUCTION. 


G 


rw 


sides   of  the    Atlantic,    enthusiasm   which   was   destined  to  bear  definite 
missionary  fruit,  is  matter  for  profound  gratitude. 

His  journey  to  India  in  1896,  with  my  sister  Lucy,  resulted  in  the  pub 
lication  of  her  splendid  book,  "  Across  India,  at  the  dawn  of  the  20th 
Century,"  which  later  became  one  of  the  factors  in  connection  with  the 
establishment  of  our  mission  in  Behar. 

In  the  following  year  he  visited  China,  where  my  sister,  Mrs.  Howard 

Taylor,     and    my 

brother,  Dr.  Whit- 
field  Guinness, 
were  labouring  in 
the  ranks  of  the 
China  Inland  Mis 
sion. 

In  1903,  he  was 
united  in  marriage 
with  Miss  Grace 
Hurditch,  daugh 
ter  of  the  well- 
known  Russell 
Hurditch,  and 
with  her,  and  their 
little  son,  has  just 
returned  from  a 
four -and  -  a  -  half 
years'  tour  in 
which  he  has 
exercised  a  help 
ful  ministry  in 
many  lands, — 
China,  Japan,  the 
Philippines,  New 
Guinea,  the  Aus 
tralasian  Colonies, 
and  South  Africa. 
In  these  and  other 
regions  he  has 
been  privileged  to 
see  many  of  our 
former  students  at 
work  and  to  cheer 
them  by  the  way. 


DR.  HARRY  GUINNESS,   1908. 


so  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

And  now  once  again  he  is  in  our  midst,  almost  as  vigorous  as  of  yore, 
and  with  heart  as  young.  He  is  hoping  to  live  at  St.  Leonards  for  a  while, 
and  to  lecture,  preach,  and,  above  all,  write,  as  GOD  may  open  the  way. 

The  following  is  a  list  of  the  books  which  have  issued  from  his  pen  during 
the  last  twenty-one  years  :— 

"  Romanism  and  the  Reformation  "  (1887).  "  The  Divine  Programme  of 
the  World's  History  "(1888).  "  The  City  of  the  Seven  Hills  "  :  a  Poem  (1891). 
"  Creation  Centred  in  Christ  "  (1896).  "  Light  for  the  Last  Days  "  (1891). 
"  Key  to  the  Apocalypse  "  (1899).  "  History  Unveiling  Prophecy"  (1905). 
"  Lucy  Guinness  Kumm :  her  Life  Story  "  (1907).  "  The  Story  of  Job  "  : 

a  Poem.     (1907). 

*  *  * 

The  photograph  of  Mrs.  Reed,  and  her  eldest  daughter,  taken  on  the  eve 
of  our  marriage,  twenty-one  years  ago,  speaks  eloquently  to  some  of  us 
of  the  "  then,"  and  we  rejoice  that  the  Mother  who  at  that  time  gave  her 
daughter  to  this  work,  although  far  away,  still  lives  to  bless  the  world 
by  prayer  and  gift.  Only  last  year,  at  eighty-one  years  of  age,  she  published 
the  life  of  Henry  Reed,  whose  devotion  to  GOD  and  man  thus  reaches  the 
living  generation  with  inspiring  freshness. 

The  family  group  tells  the  story  of  to-day,  and  affords,  I  trust, 
a  prophecy  of  the  days  that  yet  shall  be.  We  touch  the  personal 
element,  not  because  we  love  to  do  so,  but  because  we  think  our  friends 
would  like  to  see  how  much  we  have  to  be  grateful  for — boys  as  tall  as 
their  father,  and  a  daughter  already  called  to  help  Peru  with  voice  and  pen  ! 

Of  my  Wife,  we  may  only  say,  that,  as  Honorary  Secretary  to  this  work, 
her  quiet,  noble  life  has  been  of  inestimable  value.  Gifted  with  remarkable 
common  sense  and  mental  balance,  her  advice  is  sought  for  in  countless 
directions.  For  several  years  after  our  marriage,  Mrs.  Guinness  used  to 
accompany  me  in  my  deputation  work  throughout  the  country,  operating 
the  splendid  lantern  which  has  played  so  prominent  a  part  in  that  sphere  of 
service. 

In  1895,  her  motherly  sympathies  prompted  the  origination  of  a  Home  for 
the  children  of  missionaries.  For  eight  years  she  was  solely  responsible 
for  the  finances  of  that  work,  which,  however,  in  1903  was  transferred  to 
the  Union,  on  the  occasion  of  the  incorporation  of  the  movement. 
She  still  continues,  however,  to  watch  over  the  welfare  of  the  children 
committed  to  our  care,  aided  in  this  direction — as  also  in  connection  with 

Doric  Lodge  affairs — by  a  Ladies'  Council  formed  in  1907. 

*  *  * 

In  the  work  what  changes  the  passing  years  have  brought !  Generations  of 


c£^ 


THE  SONS  AND  DAUGHTERS  OF  DR.  AND  MRS.  HARRY  GUINNESS. 


22  "NOT  UNTO  US." 

students  have  gone  forth  from  our  midst  into  many  lands,  and  the  old 
College,  in  its  wide-stretching  East  End  garden,  might  tell  a  story  could 
it  speak.  In  one  sense,  indeed,  it  is  vocal,  for  its  very  walls  are  eloquent 
with  the  cumulative  record  of  the  fleeting  years. 

There  on  that  large  oak  panel,  near  the  door,  are  the  names  one 
remembers  so  well  of  all  the  early  pioneers  of  Congoland  .  .  .  the  men  and 
women  of  the  old  "  L.I.M."  And  here  all  round  the  walls  are  similar  panels 
which  bear  their  silent  testimony  to  heroism  which  has  not  shrunk  from 
death  itself  in  the  high  places  of  the  field.  Yonder  in  memoriam  tablet, 
opposite  the  platform,  gives  our  roll  of  Chinese  martyrs.  It  tells  of  fourteen 
former  students  who,  through  the  agonies  of  Boxer  massacres,  entered 
into  the  joy  of  their  Lord.  And  the  shining  words  linger  in  the  memory — 
"  These  are  they  which  came  out  of  great  tribulation."  Three  boards  filled 
with  names — one  hundred  and  fourteen  in  all — tell  the  story  of  the  Congo 
Balolo  Mission  from  its  birth  in  1888,  and  three  others  remind  us  by  their 
record  that  Argentina,  Peru,  and  India  have  come  to  share  with  Congoland 

our  sympathy  and  succour. 

*  *  * 

With  the  addition  of  these  foreign  missions,  the  whole  movement  could 
no  longer  be  adequately  represented  by  its  early  name.  It  demanded  a 
simpler,  wider  description,  which  eventually  was  arrived  at  by  combining 
the  title  of  its  monthly  periodical,  "  Regions  Beyond,"  with  "  Missionary 
Union,"  the  American  synonym  for  Missionary  Society.  The  new  name 
was  adopted  in  1900  and  in  1903  the  work  was  formally  incorporated. 
We  received  our  new  title  at  a  time  of  deep  significance.  Then,  as  now, 
the  Christian  Church  stood  face  to  face  with  unbounded  opportunities 
for  missionary  service.  The  century  behind  her  had  opened  wide  the 
doors  of  every  Moslem  and  of  almost  every  Pagan  land.  "  Yet,"  as  my 
sister  wrote,  "  she  loitered  on,  half  heedless  of  her  obligations  towards 
those 

"  REGIONS  BEYOND  of  populous  Lands  to  which  she  had  never  gone  ; 

"  REGIONS  BEYOND  of  life  consecration  to  which  she  had  never 

risen. 

"  REGIONS  BEYOND  of  unknown  financial  devotion  to  CHRIST  ; 

"  REGIONS  BEYOND  of  undreamed-of  spiritual  blessing  springing 

from  practical  obedience  to  her  LORD  ; 

"  REGIONS  BEYOND  of  world-transforming  power  to  which  she  was 

still  a  stranger  because  she  knew  so  little 
of  the 

"  REGIONS  BEYOND  of  Prayer." 


INTRODUCTION.  13 

With  the  growth  implied  in  the  new  name,  corresponding  changes  were 
involved  in  the  administrative  department  of  the  work,  and  to-day  the 
executive  power  of  the  Union  is  vested  in  a  Board  of  Honorary  Directors, 
who  commit  the  practical  conduct  of  affairs  into  the  hands  of  one  of  their 
number,  called  the  Acting  Director.  The  latter  works  in  association  with 
a  series  of  Councils  which  meet  every  month  for  the  consideration 
of  the  affairs  of  the  Union  both  at  home  and  abroad.  The  Directors, 
who  also  meet  monthly,  are  further  aided  by  "  Field  Committees  "  com 
posed  of  our  senior  missionaries.  These  Committees  control  the  local 
operations  of  our  foreign  missions,  working  along  lines  previously  laid  down 
and  accepted  alike  by  Directors  and  missionaries.  These  arrangements 
are  collectively  known  as  the  "  Principles  and  Practice  "  of  the  Union. 

*  *  * 

What  shall  I  say  of  the  many  helpers  GOD  has  given  to  this  cause,  and 
by  whose  invaluable  co-operation  the  work  stands  firm  ?  We  thank  GOD 
for  them  all, — and,  in  particular,  for  our  Honorary  Directors  and  Members 
of  Council,  some  of  whom,  amidst  incessant  claims,  have  given,  for  many 
years,  unstinted  time  and  disinterested  effort  to  this  branch  of  the  Master's 
service. 

From  the  very  first  year  of  our  identification  with  the  work  at  Harley 
House,  the  Rev.  F.  B.  Meyer  has  been  more  or  less  closely  associated  with 
us.  Thus,  in  1887,  he  amalgamated  his  paper  "  Worship  and  Work,"  with 
"  Regions  Beyond,"  and  used  on  occasion  to  come  down  from  Leicester 
to  lecture  to  the  students.  Eventually,  ten  years  ago,  he  became  Co- 
Director  with  my  Father  and  myself,  fusing  with  this  movement  a  small 
training-home  which  he  had  been  led  to  inaugurate.  When,  in  1901,  I 
suffered  from  a  terrible  attack  of  typhoid  fever,  and  was  subsequently 
invalided  to  the  Australian  Colonies  for  twelve  months,  he  it  was  who  under 
took  the  responsibilities  of  Acting  Director  during  my  absence,  even 
residing  at  Harley  House  in  order  the  better  to  afford  his  aid. 
His  help  at  this  period  was  invaluable,  and  we  owe  him  a  lasting  debt  of 
gratitude  for  his  self-denying  devotion  to  the  work. 

Now  that  he  has  resigned  the  pastorate  at  Christ  Church,  Westminster, 
and  is  contemplating  prolonged  absences  from  England,  on  world-wide 
service,  he  has  felt  compelled  to  resign  his  connection  with  us,  and  with  other 
movements,  with  which  he  has  been  prominently  identified.  We  unite 
in  wishing  him  "  God-speed"  in  his  present  visit  to  South  Africa.  May  his 
bow  continue  to  abide  in  strength  ! 


At  present,  our 
Directorate  is 
composed  of  six 
gentlemen,  in  ad 
dition  to  the 
Acting  or  Man 
aging  Director. 

The     Rev. 
George    Hanson, 
M.A.,     D.D.,     is 
the    minister    of 
the  Presbyterian 
Church  of  Eng 
land   in   Maryle- 
bone.       He   is 
highly    esteemed 
both  in    Dublin, 
where  he  labour 
ed  before  his  call 
to  the  Metropolis, 
and  in  the  West 
End,     where 
during    recent 
years  his   genial 
influence    has 
made      itself 
widely    felt,    not 
alone  in  Presby 
terian  circles,  but 
in     every     good 
movement  which 
has   claimed   his 
sympathy. 


THE  REV.  F.  B.  MEYER,  B.A. 


Pastor  R.  Wright  Hay  is  beloved  throughout  the  Baptist  circles  of  this 
country.  Born  of  Scotch  parentage,  and  educated  at  the  Edinburgh 
University,  he  went  out  in  1884  as  a  missionary  of  the  Baptist  Missionary 
Society  to  the  Cameroons,  West  Africa.  On  the  cessation  of  the  Society's 
work  there,  owing  to  the  annexation  of  the  country  by  Germany  he  was 
transferred  to  the  Indian  staff  in  October,  1887,  and  appointed  to  labour 
amongst  the  Bengalese  of  Dacca,  being  the  first  missionary  specifically 


THE  HONORARY  DIRECTORS  OF  THB  REGIONS  BEYOND  MISSIONARY  UNION. 


26  "NOT  UNTO  US." 

set  apart  for  the  work  of  evangelizing  Indian  students.  Invalided  home, 
and  forbidden  by  medical  advisers  to  return  to  the  field,  he  was  appointed 
Secretary  to  the  Young  People's  Missionary  Association  in  1898.  In  the 
autumn  of  1901,  however,  he  felt  the  call  to  the  pastorate  and  united  in 
labour  at  the  Talbot  Tabernacle  with  Pastor  Frank  White,  upon  whose 
retirement  he  succeeded  to  the  full  responsibility  of  that  work.  We  greatly 
rejoice  that  in  the  providence  of  GOD  the  deep  spiritual  influence  of  our 
friend,  coupled  with  his  missionary  experience  in  two  of  the  very  continents 
where  our  missionaries  are  at  work,  should  be  available  in  the  conduct  of 
theR.B.M.U. 

-The  Rev.  John  Stuart  Holden,  M.A.,  is  well-known  as  one  of  the  speakers 
and  missionary  deputations  of  the  Keswick  Convention.  In  the  latter 
connection,  he  has  visited  China  and  South  Africa,  and  done  excellent 
service.  Formerly  one  of  the  staff  of  the  Church  Parochial  Mission  Society, 
with  which  the  Rev.  Hay  Aitken  was  prominently  identified,  our  friend 
is  now  the  Vicar  of  St.  Paul's,  Portman  Square,  W.,  but  spares  time  in  the 
midst  of  his  busy  life  to  aid  us  by  his  wisdom  and  counsel. 

Mr.  Theodore  Howard,  one  of  the  oldest  friends  of  the  Founder  of  this 
work,  is  not  only  a  Director,  but  renders  signal  help  as  Honorary  Treasurer 
of  our  Union,  a  position  in  which  he  succeeded  the  late  Sir  Arthur 
Blackwood.  Mr.  Howard,  who  is  also  Home  Director  of  the  China  Inland 
Mission,  has  a  wide  experience  of  missionary  oversight  and  responsibility. 

Mr.  J.  Christie  Reid,  of  Bromley,  Kent,  became  our  Deputy  Treasurer 
in  1906,  but  for  the  last  ten  years  he  has  faithfully  served  on  the  Congo 
Council.  After  his  return  from  China,  last  year,  at  the  close  of  special 
deputational  work  on  behalf  of  the  English  Presbyterian  Mission,  he  joined 
our  Directorate,  and  we  rejoice  to  have  the  benefit  of  his  long  and  valuable 
business  experience. 

Sir  Andrew  Wingate,  K.C.I.E.,  entered  the  Bombay  Civil  Service  in  1869, 
and  after  occupying  many  important  positions,  eventually  became  Com 
missioner  of  the  Central  Division  of  Bombay.  His  extensive  Indian  ex 
perience,  extending  over  a  period  of  more  than  thirty  years,  allied  as  it  is 

with  fervent  missionary  zeal,  renders  his  advice  of  peculiar  value. 

*  *  * 

To  the  helpers  who  share  with  us  in  the  routine  labour  of  this  work  from 
day  to  day,  we  can  but  briefly  refer.  In  Harley  College,  the  chief  burden 
falls  upon  Principal  Forbes  Jackson  and  our  senior  tutor,  Mr.  Schofield. 
The  latter,  in  the  article  on  "  Mental  Culture,"  which  appears  on  a  sub 
sequent  page,  has  not  praised  the  late  Principal  Rattray — the  grand  old 
man  of  Cliff — one  whit  too  highly.  But  upon  the  shoulders  of  this 


INTRODUCTION.  *7 

modest  author  himself  rests  the  mantle  of  Elijah,  though  he  is  uncon 
scious  of  the  fact  ;  and  we  often  feel  that  in  him  Mr.  Rattray  is  with  us 
still.  If  Mr.  Schoneld  cannot  make  a  man  a  thoughtful  student,  his  case 
is  hopeless  indeed  ! 

In  Principal  Forbes  Jackson  we  have  a  man  of  strong  and  unique 
character.  Scotch,  he  unites  to  all  the  determination  and  plod  characteristic 
of  that  wonderful  people,  a  vein  of  imagination,  poetry  and  humour.  So 
effectively,  for  instance,  does  he  enter  into  the  times  of  the  ancient 
prophets,  concerning  whom  he  may  be  lecturing,  that,  as  one  of  his  hearers 
lately  told  me,  his  very  language  unconsciously  takes  on  the  characteristic 
speech  of  Isaiah,  as  he  seeks  to  transport  himself  and  his  students  to  the 
days  of  long  ago.  Robust,  common  sense,  and  thorough-going,  Mr.  Jackson 
is  doing  much  to  raise  the  College  standard,  and  this  is  clearly  recognized 
by  Missionary  Societies,  who  now  readily  accept  our  students  without 
insisting  on  any  further  period  of  preparation  in  Denominational  Institu 
tions,  as  years  ago  used  frequently  to  be  the  case. 

*  *  * 

As  a  rule,  the  health  of  both  students  and  deaconesses  is  excellent,  but 
needless  to  say  influenza  sometimes  troubles  us,  and  medical  and  surgical 
maladies  occur  which  necessitate  skilled  attention.  Our  neighbour, 
Dr.  Robert  Milne,  is  ever  ready  with  kindly  help  in  this  department  of 
service,  and  we  are  most  grateful  to  him  for  his  invaluable  aid.  All  mis 
sionary  candidates  for  the  R.B.M.U.  are  very  carefully  examined  as  to 
medical  fitness  for  the  field.  The  responsibility  of  deciding  this  question 
falls  upon  the  three  members  of  our  Medical  Council,  Mr.  W.  Me  Adam 
Eccles,  of  Harley  Street,  Sir  Patrick  Manson,  the  specialist  for  tropical 
diseases,  and  Dr.  Milne.  To  each  we  tender  our  grateful  thanks.  Any 
ophthalmic  work  needed  is  efficiently  undertaken  by  Mr.  S.  Stephenson  ; 

and  Mr.  John  Me  All  has  been  most  kind  in  regard  to  dental  matters. 

*  *  * 

Our  workers  at  Doric  Lodge,  Bromley  Hall,  the  Children's  Homes,  and 
Berger  Hall  are  referred  to  elsewhere,  but  in  the  latter  connection  I  must 
mention  another  medical  friend,  Dr.  McRae,  who  has  for  many  years  been 
indefatigable  in  his  labours  at  the  Medical  Mission,  which  constitutes  one 
of  the  most  useful  branches  of  the  work  carried  on  at  our  Home  Mission 

Centre. 

*  *  * 

In  the  Office,  our  staff  of  thirteen  workers  responds  nobly  to  the  heavy 
task  imposed  upon  it,  and  we  are  deeply  grateful  for  its  zealous  and  efficient 
help.  Miss  Haffner,  the  first  Secretary  of  the  work,  is  with  us  still,  her 


\ 


MR.  JAMES  IRVINE, 
of  the  Congo  Council. 


MR.  C.  HAY  WALKER, 

of  the  South  American  and  Indian  Council. 


sympathy  as  warm  as  ever.  I  well  remember  the  days  when  she  used  to 
sit  in  a  tiny  chamber,  with  hardly  space  enough  to  turn  round,  next  door  to 
the  sitting  room  where  my  beloved  mother  wielded  the  editorial  pen  from 
morning  till  late  at  night.  In  those  days  that  was  all  the  office  we  had, 
or  needed  !  Now  we  necessarily  occupy  more  rooms,  and  each  department 
is  becoming  one  of  increasing  responsibility.  As  editor,  we  are  glad  to  have 
the  skilled  help  of  Miss  M.  E.  Rae,  who  has  been  with  us  for  some  years. 
My  beloved  mother  and  sister  had  a  genius  for  literary  work,  and  a  lady's 
taste  has  always  been  evident  in  the  pages  of  "  Regions  Beyond."  Miss 
Miller,  Miss  Mackintosh,  the  gifted  author  of  the  Life  of  Francois  Coillard, 
and  now  Miss  Rae,  have  been  in  the  goodly  succession.  We  are  thankful, 
too,  that  a  new  pen  is  coming  to  the  front,  and  that  my  daughter,  Geraldine, 
is  soon  to  give  us  a  book  on  Peru.  May  GOD  increasingly  bless  the  missionary 
literature  sent  forth  from  Harley  House. 

An  immense  amount  of  detail  falls  to  the  share  of  our  hard-working 
General  Secretary,  the  Rev.  W.  Wilkes,  a  former  student  at  Harley  and 
Cliff,  and  afterwards  one  of  our  missionaries  on  the  Congo,  where  he  spent 


THE  REV.  W.  WILKES. 


INTRODUCTION.  29 

two  terms  of  service  from  1894  to  1902. 
Owing  to  the  ill-health  of  Mrs.  Wilkes,  he 
was  unable  to  return  to  the  field,  and  in 
1903  became  Congo  Secretary  at  Harley 
House.  A  year  later,  he  undertook  the  duties 
of  College  Secretary,  and  those  connected 
with  the  organization  of  our  London 
meetings.  In  November,  1907,  he  was  ap 
pointed  General  Secretary  to  the  R.B.M.U. 
Mr.  Wilkes  also  edits  that  interesting 
periodical,  "  Harley  Echoes,"  which  circulates 
amongst  the  members  of  the  Harley  Students 
Union,  of  which  he  is  Secretary. 

Our  Accountant  is  Mr.  John  Odling,  who, 
before  coming  to  us  five  years  ago,  served 
under  the  late  Dr.  Barnardo  for  twenty 
years.  I  am  most  grateful  to  him  for  pre 
paring  the  diagrams  which  appear  in  one  of 

the  concluding  chapters  of  this  book. 

I  mention  Mr.  E.  A.  Talbot's  name  last  in  order  to  connect  it  with  the 

Helpers'  Union,  with  which  he  has  always  been  so  closely  identified,  although 

his  manifold  duties  have  been  in  connection  with  nearly  every  branch  of 

the  work  since  he  entered  the  office  sixteen  years  ago.     He  has  now  been 

appointed     to  the    important    position    of 

Organizing  Secretary,  in  which  capacity  he 

is  responsible  for   the   arrangement   of   the 

meetings  of  the  Managing  Director,  and  also 

for  the   organization   of   our   large    London 

gatherings.     He   further  hopes  to  visit,    as 

time  permits,  various  branches  of  the  Helpers' 

Union,  and  to  open  up  new  centres  as  the 

opportunity  may  offer. 

*  *  * 

When  I  entered  the  work  in  1887,  the 
average  gift  was  £5,  and  this  fact  it  was  that 
practically  decided  me  to  appeal  to  a  larger 
constituency,  so  as  to  broaden  the  basis  of 
support.  Eventually  we  were  led  to  the 
the  establishment  in  1892  of  the  Regions 
Beyond  Helpers'  Union,  an  organization  which 


MR.  E.  A.  TALBOT 


30  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

unites  many  of  the  helpers  of  our  Training  Colleges  and  Foreign  Missions, 
and  which  encourages  systematic  missionary  study,  prayer  and  giving. 

I  cannot  sufficiently  thank  all  our  kind  helpers  for  the  steady  support, 
so  invaluable,  so  generous,  that  they  have  given.  Some  may  have  thought 
their  gifts  were  not  of  much  account,  but,  as  the  saying  goes,  "  many  a 
mickle  makes  a  muckle  "—and  the  contents  of  all  the  "  Carey  "  boxes  now 
yield  the  substantial  annual  return  of  £4,000  ;  and  has  reached  a  grand 
total  during  fifteen  years  of  over  £50,000  !  The  average  gift  per  box  is 
ten  shillings,  and  though  in  some  cases  they  contain  less,  in  one  instance 
the  "  Carey  "  box  of  a  devoted  helper  produces  the  splendid  annual  return 
of  over  £45,  and  the  total  collected  in  that  box  has  reached  over  £364. 
Nothing  would  cheer  us  more  than  that  our  8,000  helpers  should  make  a 
resolute  effort  in  1908  to  double  our  membership.  Much  more  than  this 
might  be  accomplished,  if  we  were  all  to  share  in  the  attempt. 

The  Scottish  Auxiliary  of  the  R.B.H.U.  finds  its  headquarters  in  Glasgow, 
where  Mrs.  Whytock,  the  widow  of  our  beloved  Congo  missionary  and 
Deputation  Secretary,  the  Rev.  Peter  Whytock,  follows  in  her  husband's 
steps.  She  is  most  ably  advised  and  assisted  in  her  secretarial  duties  by 
Mr.  J.  Templeton,  Junr.,  for  whose  honorary  services  we  are  most  grateful. 
We  are  hoping  that  ere  long  this  Auxiliary  may  be  still  further  strengthened, 
and  that  a  strong  Scotch  Council  may  be  brought  into  existence  to  deal  with 
the  numerous  applications  for  missionary  service  and  training,  which  at 
present  are  dealt  with  from  London.  Several  prominent  brethren  in  the 

ministry  have  already  promised  to  serve  on  this  body 

*  *  * 

In  Canada,  the  United  States,  an-1  the  Australasian  Colonies,  auxiliaries 
have  been  established  for  some  years. 

At  our  Canadian  Headquarters  in  Toronto,  the  Rev.  George  Smith,  who 
for  fourteen  years  laboured  in  Argentina,  is  in  charge  of  the  work,  in  which 
he  is  ably  assisted  by  his  wife.  It  was  a  great  joy,  on  the  occasion  of  my 
visit  there  last  year,  to  see  in  what  high  esteem  our  friends  were  held 
by  the  ministers  and  Christian  workers  of  the  city.  An  open  door  for 
service  has  greeted  Mr.  Smith  everywhere,  and  I  trust  that  the  Canadian 
and  United  States  Auxiliaries  are  destined  to  large  and  influential  develop 
ment.  Especially  ought  these  to  become  effective  in  connection  with  the 
evangelization  of  the  South  American  Continent.  The  quarterly  paper, 
edited  by  Mr.  Smith,  and  called  the  "Neglected  Continent"  is  admirably 
produced  and  is  sent  freely  to  all  subscribers.  Small  collecting  boxes,  called 
"  mite  boxes,"  are  given  to  those  who  desire  to  help  the  mission, 
and  ere  long  Mr.  Smith  hopes  to  have  10,000  in  circulation. 


C   j 
C   — 


g      I    £ 
f+        .   tn 


H 
H 

h 

o     I 

,J      "O 

u      c 


•3    « 

!7    trL 


W 

R 

H 


s  q 

<  c 


K   -2 

^  s 


32  "  NOT     UNTO     US." 

The  Council  of  the  R.B.M.U.  in  Canada,  and  the  United  States,  is 
composed  of  outstanding  Christian  ministers  and  the  accompanying  photo 
graph,  taken  when  I  was  in  Toronto,  shows  the  Canadian  Council,  together 
with  Mr.  Smith  and  Mr.  Austin,  the  first  missionary  from  Canada  to  go 
forth  to  Peru. 

I  only  regret  that  I  have  no  similar  group  of  the  members  of  the  Council 
for  the  Australasian  Colonies,  with  whom  it  was  a  privilege  to  be  brought 
into  contact  on  the  occasion  of  my  last  visit  five  years  ago.  They  have 
already  sent  us  more  than  a  dozen  students  for  training,  and  to-day  we  have 
in  the  field  thirteen  missionaries  who  belong  to  Australia  and  New  Zealand. 
Mr.  Lewis  Ingram  is  our  Hon.  Secretary  for  these  colonies,  and  at  present  the 
Rev.  Robert  Elder,  who  recently  erected  a  beautiful  Church  in  Tres  Arroyos, 
Argentina,  is  carrying  forward  the  task  of  organization,  ere  returning  to 
found  the  new  movement  in  the  capital  city  of  Buenos  Aires. 

To  all  our  friends  and  helpers  in  other  lands,  we  send  our  grateful  and 
hearty  greetings.  The  work  is  increasingly  world-wide  in  character,  and 
we  would  not  have  it  otherwise.  Our  hands  and  hearts  are  joined  across  the 

seas,  and  we  pray  that  this  union  may  become  yet  stronger  and  more  effective. 

*  *  * 

The  preparation  of  this  twenty-one  years'  report  has  been  greatly 
facilitated  by  the  willing  co-operation  of  many  helpers,  to  each  of  whom  we 
tender  our  hearty  thanks.  We  ah1  wish  that  we  might  have  done  ampler 
justice  to  that  portion  of  the  work  which  we  have  been  called  upon  to  repre 
sent,  but  the  restrictions  of  space  were  inexorable. 

*  *  * 

Sincerely  do  we  regret  our  inability  to  deal  adequately  with  the  noble 
work  of  men  and  women  who,  during  the  past  thirty-five  years,  have  gone 
forth  from  our  Colleges  to  become  identified  with  missionary  societies  other 
than  the  R.B.M.U.,  and  in  some  instances  to  establish  independent  missions 
in  hitherto  unreached  spheres. 

•How  we  should  like  to  describe  the  Jewish  work  of  our  former  student, 
the  Rev.  David  Baron,  whose  mission,  "  Hebrew  Christian  Testimony 
for  Israel,"  now  occupies  its  own  convenient  and  admirable  building  near 
the  London  Hospital,  Whitechapel  ;  and  whose  influence  in  the  East  End 
of  London,  and  on  the  Continent  of  Europe,  is  increasingly  and  blessedly 
manifest.  Then,  who  that  knows  France,  and  GOD'S  work  there,  does  not 
know  of  Pastor  Reuben  Saillens,  oi  Paris,  one  of  the  most  gifted  and  eloquent 
preachers  of  the  Gospel  in  the  Republic.  He,  too,  "  hails  from  Harley," 
and  to  hear  of  his  work  has  often  been  an  inspiration  to  us.  Few  speakers 
are  more  welcome  on  the  platform  of  the  Metropolitan  Tabernacle  in  London. 


SOME  01    THE  MEN  TRAINED  AT  HARI  EY  COLLEGE  DURING  THE  PAST  TWENTY-ONE  YEARS 


34  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

and  though  English  is  not  his  native  tongue,  he  can  use  it  with  wondrous 
power  in  pleading  the  cause  of  his  beloved  land.  And  there  are  others — 
James  Cameron,  who  travelled  thirty  thousand  miles  in  China,  to  open  that 
Empire  to  the  Gospel  ;  Frederick  W.  Bailer,  whose  linguistic  work  is  so 
widely  valued  in  and  beyond  the  ranks  of  the  China  Inland  Mission  ;  and 
linked  with  these  A.  W.  Douthwaite,  Adam  Dorward,  David  Murray,  and 
many  another  faithful  worker  who  also  went  to  the  Far  East  from  the  old 
College.  Nor  must  we  forget  "  Bill  and  Bailey,"  who  founded  the  "  Qua 
Iboe  Mission  "  in  West  Africa  ;  Samuel  Aitchison,  who  originated  and  still 
maintains  that  marvellous  work  amongst  the  natives  at  Ikwezi  Lamaci  in 
Natal  ;  James  Fanstone,  largely  instrumental  in  inaugurating  "  Help  for 
Brazil "  ;  John  Hay,  now  labouring  successfully  to  establish  a  new  move 
ment  in  the  Paraguayan  Chaco  ;  Grade,  Summers,  Parrott,  and  Stark, 
organizing  pioneer  work  on  behalf  of  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society  ; 
and  last,  but  not  least,  those  Congo  heroes,  Henry  Richards,  Joseph  Clark, 
Dr.  Sims,  and  Charles  Harvey — all  veterans  in  the  field  and  still  in  the 
fighting  line.  As  the  Rev.  G.  H.  Ritson  recently  said  :  — "  Harley  College 
gives  something  needed  by  the  missionary  societies  to-day  more  than  cash, — 

it  gives  men,  men  called  of  GOD  to  evangelize  the  world." 

*  *  * 

"And  what  of  the  future  ?  "  Surely  the  cumulative  argument  of  these  pages 
ought  to  suggest  its  own  reply. 

"  So  long  Thy  power  hath  led  me, 
Sure  it  still  'will  lead  me  on. " 

GOD  has  been  with  us.  Who  can  doubt  it  ?  But  "  the  best  of  all  is, 
GOD  is  with  us,"  and  with  regard  to  the  unknown  to-morrow,  Himself 
hath  said  :— 

"  /  will  never  leave  thee  nor  forsake  thee. " 
44 Lo,  I  am  'with  you  all  the  days,  even  unto  the  end  of  the  age.  " 

To  such  an  assurance  can  we  do  other  than  respond  in  humble  confidence, 
"I  WILL  TRUST  AND  NOT  BE  AFRAID." 

My  own  deep  impression  is  that  this  work  is  only  beginning,  especially 
in  regard  to  the  fulfilment  of  the  foreign  missionary  task  which  it  is  destined 
to  accomplish.  Foundations  have  been  digged,  and  the  building  is  showing 
above  ground,  but  the  superstructure  is  for  to-morrow,  if  the  Master  tarry  ; 
some  of  us  are  believing  to  see  the  glory  of  GOD  in  the  salvation  of  thousands 
of  superstitious  and  darkened  souls  in  each  of  the  vast  spheres  of  the  Regions 
Beyond  that  we  have  entered  in  His  Name. 


PART   I. 


MISSIONARIES 
IN  THE  MAKING. 


3OML   AttOUNT   Or    IMF. 
TttAINlINO    WOUK   CAUUICD   ON    AT 
MAKLEY   COLLEGE,    DORIC  LODGE, 
AND     BROMLEY     HALL. 


HARLEY  COLLEGE,   Bow  ROAD,  LONDON,  E. 


THE;  PRINCIPAL  OF  HARLEY  COLLEGE,  WITH  THE  STAFF 


AND  STUDENTS  IN  RESIDENCE,  SESSION   1907 — 1908. 


The  Life  of  a  Harley  Man. 


'F  survival  is  a  test  of  fitness,  and  output  a  proof  of  health,  then  Harley 
College  has  justified  the  faith  of  its  founder  and  the  support  of  its 
friends.  Harley  students,  like  Scotch  engineers,  are  to  be  found 
everywhere.  The  regions  beyond  is  their  native  land.  They  have 
gone  as  pioneer  missionaries  into  many  a  hitherto  unoccupied  field,  opened 
up  stations  and  established  the  work  :  and  not  without  suffering.  Several 
have  been  called  upon  to  endure  the  martyr's  death,  including  Oliver 
Tomkins,  of  New  Guinea,  murdered  with  Chalmers  ;  and  the  fourteen 
who  were  massacred  during  the  Boxer  riots  in  China. 

The  spirit  of  the  past  is  in  the  air  the  present  students  breathe,  and  the 
influence  of  the  men  who  have  gone  before  is  handed  down  as  a  precious 
legacy. 

The  College  is  unique  because  it  is  essentially  a  Missionary  Training 
Institution.  All  the  students  enter  with  the  distinct  intention  of  eventually 
finding  their  life-work  in  the  foreign  field. 

Probably  there  is  no  college  in  the  world  whose  students  belong  to  more 
races.  Norway  and  Armenia,  Italy  and  Patagonia,  Palestine  and  Australia, 
have  each  their  representatives  with  us  now,  thus  proving  its  international 
character.  Men  of  about  twenty  different  countries  have  passed  through 
the  classes,  and  to-day  are  labouring  for  the  Master  in  practically  every 
part  of  the  world.  At  Harley,  men  of  many  tongues,  but  of  one  spirit, 
have  dedicated  themselves  to  the  universal  passion  of  the  Cross. 

Again,  Harley  College  is  as  interdenominational  as  it  is  international. 
Just  as  Palestine  has  a  selection  of  all  the  flora  of  the  world,  so  we  have  a 
selection  of  all  the  sons  of  the  Churches.  Baptists  and  Episcopalians, 
Congregationalists,  Wesleyans  and  Presbyterians,  sit  side  by  side,  and  this 
intercourse  between  men  coming  from  varied  sources,  helps  to  foster  that 
spirit  of  brotherhood  which  is  the  best  guarantee  of  missionary  harmony 
on  the  field. 

Then  not  only  does  Harley  train  men  of  all  denominations,  but,  after 
fitting  them  for  their  noble  calling,  it  gives  them  back  as  missionaries 
to  their  own  societies.  No  less  than  forty  missionary  organizations  now 


40  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

number  our  men  amongst  their  workers.  In  the  majority  of  cases,  these 
men,  but  for  Harley,  would  have  never  reached  the  field  at  all,  to  the  loss 
of  the  Church  and  the  heathen  world. 

Men  who  have  received  the  divine  call  and  whose  cases  stand  the  test  of 
careful  inquiry,  are  often  admitted  irrespective  of  their  financial  position. 
In  spite  of  the  fact  that  our  minimum  fee  is  £20,  we  have  never  yet  refused 
a  downright  good  man,  simply  because  he  could  not  afford  to  pay.  True, 
some  have  not  been  "  polished  diamonds"  when  they  entered  the  College, 
but  by  the  Grace  of  GOD  and  through  the  help  of  the  HOLY  SPIRIT  they  have 
"  turned  the  world  upside  down  "  in  the  lands  whither  they  have  gone. 

Before  they  are  accepted,  all  candidates  must  have  given  proof  of  evan 
gelistic  enthusiasm  at  home.  Missionary  sentiment  may  grow  out  of  mis 
sionary  study,  but  missionary  passion  can  come  from  nothing  but  actual 
work.  To  win  souls  is  the  first,  middle,  and  last  aim  of  a  true  missionary 
student ;  and  to  keep  alive  the  passion,  the  practice  and  the  joy  of  soul- 
winning,  is  one  of  the  great  aims  of  our  College  life  and  work.  Soul-winning 
needs,  in  addition  to  prayer  and  passion,  knowledge,  wisdom  and  patience, 
and  many  qualities  of  mind,  heart  and  spirit,  all  at  their  best.  All  books, 
even  the  Book  of  Books  itself,  are  but  tools  to  secure  this  end. 

EAST  LONDON 

forms  an  excellent  training  ground  for  the  burden-bearing  of  the 
foreign  field.  Here  are  souls  as  indifferent  as  can  be  found  on  pagan 
soil ;  slums  whose  squalor  would  reek  even  in  China  ;  crowds  which  fill 
busy  thoroughfares  and  afford  fine  opportunity  for  the  callow  youth  who 
will  later  take  his  stand  at  mela  or  bazaar.  He  who  keeps  his  heart  up 
amid  the  trials  of  East  London  work  will  keep  hopeful  even  on  the  Congo. 

Naturalty,  the  Christian  work  the  men  engage  in  grades  itself,  and  runs 
through  the  whole  gamut  of  opportunity — from  senior  classes  in  Sunday 
Schools  to  Open- Air  Meetings,  Lodging-House  visiting,  Gospel  Hall  addresses, 
Midnight  Marches  and  Student-Pastorates.  Missionary  study  circles 
also  offer  opportunities  for  very  useful  work. 

But  missionary  fitness  is  requisite  as  well  as  evangelistic  passion,  and 
as  the  missionaries  of  the  future  must  be  less  and  less  itinerants,  and  more 
and  more  heads  of  departments  and  trainers  of  native  assistants,  a  higher 
quality  of  mind  is  called  for  by  the  new  demands.  Missionary  work  becomes 
more  difficult  and  more  complex  every  year.  Special  knowledge  of  the 
faiths  and  customs  of  Eastern  peoples  is  absolutely  necessary  to  secure 
that  sympathy  which  is  the  guarantee  of  a  wise  and  sure  handling  of  the 
Eastern  mind. 


THE     LIFE     OF     A     HARLEY     MAN.  41 

A  missionary  is  not  made  in  a  day  ;  and  therefore  our  present  course 
extends  over  a  period  of  four  years.  You  cannot  fill  a  head  as  you  can 
a  travelling  trunk.  The  mind  must  do  its  own  work — discover, 
increase,  and  make  sure  of  its  own  powers — and  that  cannot  be  except 
through  toil,  and  tests,  and  training,  and  time.  The  best  minds  profit  most 
by  the  longest  course,  and  to  the  ordinary  mind  it  is  an  absolute  necessity. 

The  Bible  is  our  classic — in  English,  in  Greek,  and  for  some  students,  in 
Hebrew.  To  it,  we  give  the  strength  of  our  mind  and  the  reverence  of  our 
soul.  We  study  it,  as  well  as  books  about  it,  and  find  it,  as  all  Bible  souls 
do,  the  joy  and  rejoicing  of  our  heart. 

The  following  is  an  outline  of  our  curriculum. 

THE  BIBLICAL  DEPARTMENT  consists  of  :— 

1.  Devotional  Study. 

2.  Biblical  Introduction  in  general. 

3.  The  Prophets  in  relation  to  their  times. 

4.  The  Development  of  Messianic  Prophecy. 

5.  The  Gospels,  their  messages  and  characteristics. 

6.  The  Life  and  Missionary  Work  of  St.  Paul. 

7.  The  Epistles  and  their  Christology. 

THE  GENERAL  EDUCATION  DEPARTMENT  includes  :— 

1.  English  Language  and  Literature. 

2.  Rhetoric,  Logic.  Psychology,  Ethics. 

3.  Languages — Greek,  (and  for  certain  students)  Hebrew,  French, 

Spanish. 

5.     Apologetics  and  Theology,  Homiletics. 
THE  MISSIONARY  DEPARTMENT  deals  with  :— 

1.  The   Religions  of  the   World — Islam,   Hinduism,   Buddhism, 

Confucianism,    Taoism,    Shintoism,    Roman    Catholicism, 
Christianity. 

2.  The   Comparison   of   Religions,   as   to   Founders,    Books   and 

Doctrines  of  GOD   and  of  man. 

3.  Missions — their  History,  Methods,  Spiritual  and  Social  Results. 
THE  PRACTICAL  MISSIONARY  TRAINING  demands  :— 

1.  Practical  attention  to  health  of  soul,  and  body. 

2.  Conduct  inspired  by  principles  rather  than  controlled  by  rules. 

3.  Dispensary  work. 

4.  Medical  training  in  hospitals. 

5.  Constant  week-end  preaching. 

6.  Prayer,  Faith,  and  Mutual  Forbearance. 


NOT     UNTO     US." 


It  takes  three  passions  to  make  a  true  preacher  :  the  passion  of  devotion 
to  CHRIST,  of  loyalty  to  His  Gospel,  and  of  love  to  men.  A  personal  call 
to  CHRIST,  a  personal  debt  to  CHRIST,  a  personal  sense  of  His  ordination 
to  the  great  world-field — these  are  the  marks  of  the  man  "  thrust  out"  by 
the  LORD  of  the  Harvest.  Such  have  come  to  us  from  forge  and  field  ; 
bench  and  barrack  ;  school  and  shop  ;  from  the  main  and  from  the  mine  ; 
men  of  many  trades,  but  of  one  vocation,  they  have  come  at  the  call  of  GOD. 
CHRIST  first,  CHRIST  second,  CHRIST  last ;  CHRIST  without  end,  is  the 
secret  of  their  impulse,  the  soul  of  their  service,  and  the  source  of  their 
endurance. 

As  the  first  mark  we  like  to  see  in  a  Harley  student  is  his  devotion  to 
CHRIST,  the  second  is  his  loyalty  to  the  Gospel  and  to  the  Book  wherein  that 
Gospel  is  found.  The  Bible  is  loved  and  studied,  prized  and  prayed  over — 
so  that  its  truth  dominates  his  thought  and  controls  his  view  of  all  things. 
The  morning  hour  of  meditation,  the  daily  exposition  at  College  prayers, 
and  the  continuous  study  of  its  books,  all  help  to  make  the  student  a  servant, 
needing  not  to  be  ashamed. 

A  third  characteristic  we  prize  is  love  for  men — a  passion  for  souls.  We 
long  that  every  Harley  student  should  subordinate  all  thoughts  and  things 
to  this  highest  end.  On  Tuesday  mornings,  when  the  week-end  work  is 
recounted,  no  story  touches  a  deeper  chord  than  that  of  souls  won  for 
CHRIST  !  FORBES  JACKSON,  M.A. 


c 


rj 


r 


f 


THE  LECTURE  ROOM  AT  HARLEY  COLLEGE. 


On  Mental  Culture. 


"  Now  with  all  these  lessons  from  John  Bunyan  for  your  future 
ministers,  there  is  still  this  great  lesson  left  for  yourselves ;  this  great 
lesson:  English  is  the  key  to  everything,  even  to  Plato  and  Aristotle." 

Dr.  Alexander  Whyte. 


rN  reviewing  our  history  along  the  lines  of  the  mental  culture  we 
have  sought  to  afford,  we  discover  the  gradual  transformation  of 
Harley  College  from  the  Bible  Training  Institute  of  1873  into  the 
Missionary  Theological  College  of  1887  to  1908. 
In  its  inception  this  Institution  was  a  pioneer  in  Bible  Training  work. 
The  two-fold  aim  of  its  Directors  was  to  impart  to  earnest,  able,  spiritual 
young  men  a  good  working  knowledge  of  the  whole  Bible,  side  by  side  with 
abundant  training  in  the  work  of  leading  human  souls  into  the  love  of  CHRIST. 
As  years  of  varied  effort  tested  this  general  method,  it  became  more  and  more 
apparent  that,  although  great  lasting  good  was  being  accomplished,  the 
system  was  seriously  defective  as  a  means  of  training  men  for  the  severe 
mental  toils  and  severer  mental  isolation  of  a  missionary  career.  The  rapid 
survey  of  vast  areas  of  Bible  truth,  the  constant  alternation  of  class  room 
and  mission  hall,  the  scant  opportunity  for  real,  individual  study  were 
ill-adapted  for  minds  still  untrained.  For  one  man  who  at  his  entrance  can 
fully  profit  by  such  provision,  there  are  ten  whose  greater  need  is  the  mastery 
of  the  instruments  of  knowledge,  the  acquisition  of  methods  and  habits  of 
study,  in  a  word,  not  the  chance  of  picking  up  valuable  information,  but 
the  power  of  making  advances  in  any  necessary  field  of  enquiry  without 
the  teacher's  aid. 

A  great  institution  does  not  change  its  aims  and  methods  all  at  once. 
Moreover,  it  is  one  thing  for  a  purpose  to  be  conceived,  and  quite  another 
for  the  hand,  and  heart,  and  brain  to  be  found  by  which  the  purpose  can 
be  reduced  to  plan,  and  ripened  into  execution.  The  brain,  heart,  and 
hand  by  which  our  system  of  teaching  was  re-modelled  were  those  of  William 
Rattray,  Principal  of  Cliff  College  (the  Country  Branch  of  our  Training 
Institution)  from  1882  to  1895. 


44 


NOT     UNTO     US.' 


0 


Mr.  Rattray  was  a  typical  Scotch  educationist,  a  master  in  Bible  exposition, 
an  enthusiast  in  the  service  of  Missions,  a  swift  discerner  of  spirits,  and  a 
very  father  in  his  care  for  the  young  men  in  his  charge. 

The  foundation  stone 
of  the  Cliff  curriculum 
was  a  thorough  knowledge 
of  English  :  and  by  know 
ledge  Mr.  Rattray  meant 
power  to  apply  principles 
to  practice  ;  insight  to 
discern  principles  in  the 
widest  range  of  examples. 
To  learn  English  under 
his  methods  was  to  ac 
quire  a  life-long  habit  of 
weighing  words,  sentences 
and  paragraphs  ;  so 
that  the  principles  of 
interpretation  and  of 
appreciation  became  the 
constant,  the  vital  accom 
paniments  of  the  whole 
of  a  man's  reading.  For 
no  part  of  this  discipline 
was  taught  by  word  only 
Mr.  Rattray  knew  that 
to  be  an  impossibility. 
Little  by  little,  the  men 
learnt  English  method 
by  constant  practice,  by 
exercises  skilfully  graded,  and  faithfully  corrected.  Soon  was  the  strange 
discovery  forced  on  many  a  freshman,  that  he  had  never  read  either  his 
Bible  or  any  other  book  as  it  should  be  read,  until  he  came  to  Cliff.  Farewell 
to  all  the  pleasant  expectations  of  a  swift  and  royal  road  through  wide 
and  interesting  fields  of  knowledge.  A  royal  road  each  student  should 
possess,  but  on  one  condition,  that  he  worked  with  his  teacher  in  making  it. 
By  a  plain  extension  of  these  methods  of  English  study,  men  were  led 
into  the  secret  of  sound  exegetical  power.  First  the  class  would  be  instructed 
to  examine  the  place  and  bearing  and  varied  meaning  of  the  great  key 
words  of  the  New  Testament :  grace,  faith,  repentance,  and  so  on.  Then 


THE  LATE  PRINCIPAL  RATTRAY. 


ON     MENTAL     CULTURE.  45 

they  were  taught  to  discover  the  main  lessons  in  paragraph  or  chapter. 
Still  later,  to  trace  an  apostolic  argument  or  to  show  how  the  historic 
occasion  affected  the  meaning  of  an  Epistle.  In  all  this  work  no  Exegesis 
was  supplied  ready-made.  Every  man  was  trained  in  the  making  of 
Exegesis,  and  the  teacher's  methods  were  set  forth  as  clearly  as  his  results. 

The  same  great  principle,  with  due  and  varied  application,  was  used  in  every 
other  department.  The  student  was  trained  to  work  for  his  own  intellectual 
bread.  His  teacher  never  offered  him  results,  without  conducting  him 
through  the  process  by  which  they  were  obtained,  and  giving  him  special 
exercises  in  verifying  those  results  and  in  working  out  the  like  for  himself. 

The  value  of  such  tuition  was  incalculable.  Hundreds  of  missionaries 
to-day  bear  witness  that  the  years  spent  at  Cliff  College  made  them  masters 
of  the  weapons  with  which  all  their  work  has  been  accomplished. 

Thirteen  years  have  passed  since  the  Grand  Old  Man  of  Cliff  was  laid 
to  rest  by  the  reverent  hands  of  his  sons.  But  so  well  and  truly  was  his 
task  accomplished,  so  deeply  did  he  ground  and  so  strongly  build,  that  to 
describe  Cliff  training  as  he  made  it,  is  to  describe  our  ideal  at  this  day. 
Whether  the  subject  be  a  Greek  verb,  a  paragraph  of  an  Epistle,  or  a  principle 
of  Homiletics,  the  student  is  sent  to  the  quiet  of  his  own  room  to  analyse 
his  material,  to  discover  its  inner  and  outer  relations,  to  put  it  through 
the  mill  of  his  own  mind.  Then  he  is  expected  to  come  up  to  his  class 
prepared  to  exhibit,  not  merely  the  thought  or  work  of  other  men,  or  the 
dry  facts  of  language  or  of  history,  but  a  proof  of  his  own  insight,  a  pledge 
of  his  own  interests,  a  product  of  his  own  growing  skill.  This  is  the  mental 
culture  for  which  we  strive  at  Harley  College.  F.  W.  SCHOFIELD. 


G 


o 


ANOTHER  SIDE  OF  HARLEY  LIFE,  THE  WINNERS  OF  THE  TENNIS  SHIELD,  1907. 


Miss  A.XYBEE.G:  I    :4   Miss  I.  OLNKI 


M  i  ss .  V.  ST.  JOSEPH.  n*H  Miss  L.  Sr.  JOSEPH  . 


[Miss  LVVaiTEHEAD.  |*^]Miss  E.MLLIAMSON.] 
THE  DEACONESSES  AT  DORIC  LODGE,  WITH  THE  LADY  SUPERINTENDENT  AND  STAFF,  SESSION   1907—1908. 


Our  Deaconesses. 


ERHAPS  no  branch  of  work  in  connection  with  the  Regions  Beyond 
Missionary  Union  has  more  abundantly  justified  its  existence  than 
Doric  Lodge.  The  earnest,  persistent  and  self-denying  service 
which  has  been  carried  on  by  the  deaconesses  has  been  continuously 
marked  by  divine  approval  and  blessing.  To-day,  the  very  name  "  Doric  " 
is  a  household  word  in  a  large  area  of  the  East  End,  where  our  friends  are 
regarded  as  true  sisters  of  the  people. 

Doric  Lodge  stands  in  the  broad  Bow  Road,  immediately  opposite  Harley 
House.  Its  rooms  are  spacious  and  its  grounds  pleasant.  Twenty-one 
years  ago  its  capacity  was  taxed  to  the  utmost  when  only  thirteen  students 
were  there,  but  by  re-modelling  the  interior,  building  one  or  two  necessary 
additions,  and  using  bedrooms  in  an  adjoining  house,  twenty-four  students 
can  now  be  accommodated  with  ease. 

Inseparably  associated  with  those  early  days  is  the  name  of  Mrs.  Dawbarn, 
who,  for  many  years,  was  responsible  for  the  tuitional  and  evangelistic 
work  of  the  students,  and  who  was  beloved  by  every  deaconess.  In  that 
important  position  she  was  ably  seconded  by  Miss  Fooks,  who  later  on 
joined  the  L.M.S.  in  India,  where  eventually  she  was  married  to  the  Rev. 
\V.  Hinkley.  Since  that  time,  three  Lady  Superintendents  have  in  turn 
guided  Doric  affairs— Miss  Duff,  Miss  Stymest,  and  now  Miss  McClymont. 
Each  has  endeared  herself  to  successive  generations  of  deaconesses,  whilst 
for  several  years  Doric  Lodge  has  been  fortunate  enough  to  have  on  its 
staff  an  ex-missionary  from  the  Congo.  No  one  could  be  better  fitted  for 
the  post  than  is  Mrs.  McKenzie,  whose  teaching  is  highly  appreciated  by 
all  who  have  the  privilege  of  coming  under  her  influence. 

For  many  years  now  the  need  of  well-trained  lady  missionaries  has  been 
making  itself  more  and  more  felt,  and  Doric  Lodge  is  aiming  in  its  measure 
to  supply  that  need.  In  fact,  the  College  exists  to  train  young  women  of 
any  evangelical  denomination  for  the  foreign  mission  field.  There  is  nothing 
narrow  or  parochial  about  the  place  :  no  indication  that  it  belongs  to  any 
specific  denomination.  The  deaconesses  come  from  all  parts  of  the  world. 
In  addition  to  representatives  from  different  quarters  of  the  British  Empire, 


48  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

one  finds  Germans,  French,  Swiss  and  Scandinavians.  Yet,  although  there  is 
diversity  of  character  and  temperament,  as  well  as  of  nationality,  a  real 
unity  of  purpose  characterizes  the  life.  For  Doric  Lodge  is  not  merely 
a  school  of  instruction,  it  is  pre-eminently  a  Christian  home,  and  in  its 
spiritual  atmosphere  the  personal  character  of  its  students  is  developed. 

The  probationer  soon  discovers  that  life  in  "  Doric "  is  anything  but 
monotonous.  The  day  is  well  mapped  out,  and  order  and  method  charac 
terize  all  the  arrangements.  The  bell  which  calls  from  the  land  of  dreams  to 
that  of  reality  sounds  its  deep  note  at  an  early  hour.  Eyes  are  then  lifted 
towards  the  hills  from  whence  cometh  strength  for  the  work  of  the  day. 
The  morning  meal  and  College  prayers  being  over,  each  deaconess  attends 
to  certain  domestic  duties  which  have  been  allotted  to  her  as  an  essential 
part  of  the  training.  The  students  thus  cultivate  habits  of  punctuality 
and  general  carefulness,  those  necessary  qualities  in  an  efficient  missionary 
character. 

THE  CURRICULUM. 

The  studies  are  arranged  not  so  much  with  a  view  to  high  scholastic 
attainment  as  to  practical  equipment  for  the  effective  discharge  of  mis 
sionary  responsibility.  Such  equipment,  however,  necessarily  involves 
mental  preparation. 

The  Bible  is  the  chief  text  book.  Just  as  the  sheaves  of  his  brethren 
made  obeisance  to  the  sheaf  of  Joseph,  so  all  other  text  books  make  obeisance 
to  the  Word  of  GOD. 

Amongst  the  subjects  studied  are  English  grammar,  the  History  of  Mis 
sions,  Church  History,  the  Religions  of  the  World,  Christian  Evidences, 
French,  Spanish  and  Music.  A  public  examination  is  held  once  a  year 
by  the  Christian  Evidence  Society,  and  the  examination  papers  are  of  a 
high  order.  It  is  a  pleasure  to  state  that  last  year  all  the  prizes  and  honours 
in  their  particular  section  were  carried  off  by  "  Doric  girls." 

During  the  second  year  of  residence,  deaconesses,  if  sufficiently  advanced, 
attend  certain  lectures  at  Harley  College.  Concerning  these  one  of  them 
writes  : — "  In  none  of  our  studies  are  we  '  spoon-fed'  ;  we  are  taught  to 
work  things  out  for  ourselves  until  impressions  become  conclusions  and 
conclusions  become  convictions." 

The  latest  addition  to  the  curriculum  is  a  course  of  training  in  such 
practical  things  as  Cookery,  Dress-making,  and  other  branches  of  domestic 
economy,  that  the  students  may  be  fully  prepared  to  face  these  very  real 
though  common-place  duties  under  the  trying  conditions  that  prevail  in 
the  mission  field.  And  there,  if  anywhere,  women  must  know  how  to  remedy 
simple  human  ills.  Our  deaconesses,  therefore,  take  their  turn  in  dispensing 


DORIC  LODGE  AS  SEKN  FROM  THE  GARDEN. 

at  our  Medical  Mission  ;  in  bandaging  and  general  minor  nursing  at  Shadwell 
Hospital  for  women  and  children  ;  and,  when  it  can  be  arranged,  attend 
lectures  on  tropical  diseases  at  Livingstone  College,  and  medical  and 
surgical  lectures  at  the  Homeopathic  Hospital.  Everyone  is  expected  to 
join  the  Ambulance  Class  unless  they  have  previously  passed  that  examina 
tion,  and  the  majority  pass  through  the  nursing  course  at  Bromley  Hall 
which  is  fully  described  elsewhere. 

At  Doric  Lodge,  however,  it  is  never  forgotten  that  to  lead  men  and 
women  to  a  knowledge  of  the  SAVIOUR  is  an  indispensable  part  of  mis 
sionary  training.  To  each  deaconess  is  apportioned  her  particular  duties, 
and  in  the  definite  sphere  of  her  ministry  she  not  only  obtains  practice  in 
public  speaking,  but  finds  ample  opportunity  of  ministering  comfort  and 
peace,  in  the  Name  of  CHRIST,  to  individual  hearts  oppressed  with  grief  and 
hardened  by  sin.  The  deaconesses  are  easily  recognizable  in  their  neat 
blue  uniform,  and  are  invariably  welcomed  in  the  homes  of  sorrow, 
which  are  tragically  numerous  in  the  districts  they  visit. 

Could  any  of  our  readers  peep  into  Doric  Lodge  one  Sunday,  or,  indeed, 
on  any  day  of  the  week,  they  might  find  little  groups  on  their  knees  praying 


G 


C 


MISS    WENDON 
N.A..M 


A  GROUP  OF  MISSIONARIES  TRAINED  AT  DORIC  LODGE. 


OUR     DEACONESSES  5I 

for  blessing  on  the  meetings  which  they  are  about  to  conduct.  Some 
go  to  "  Berger  "  and  some  to  Somerset  Hall,  where  they  teach  classes  of 
unruly  boys  and  girls.  Others  set  forth  to  engage  in  evangelistic  work  in 
the  Victoria  Homes  for  Working  Men — two  buildings  standing  in  the 
Commercial  Street  and  Whitechapel  Road,  and  between  them  accommo 
dating  more  than  a  thousand  men.  In  these  houses  the  audiences  are  large 
and  respectful,  but  to  some  of  the  deaconesses  there  falls  a  more  difficult 
task.  They  have  to  make  their  way  to  the  common  lodging-houses,  where 
they  sing  and  speak  to  a  motley  crowd  of  men,  many  of  whom  have  seen 
better  days,  and  whose  sad  story  can  often  be  summed  up  in  that  one  word 
"  Drink."  Here  they  find  men  lying  about  asleep  ;  others  smoking  ; 
a  few  eagerly  perusing  the  least  reputable  kind  of  newspaper  ;  but  a  number 
are  sitting  with  hymn-books,  evidently  waiting  for  the  "  lidies  "  to  appear. 
The  service  which  follows  is  of  the  simplest.  Bright  hymns  are  sung  and 
prayer  offered,  and  then  the  men  are  all  awake  and  ready  to  listen  with 
interest  to  the  "  Old  Story  "  which  is  ever  new.  Often  some  word  from 
the  Gospel  message  finds  a  lodgment  in  their  hearts,  awakening  memories 
of  happier  days,  until  tears  roll  down  the  rough,  sin-hardened  faces. 

Fancy  the   East   End  of  London   without   CHRIST,   and  without  such 
sympathetic  and  loving  deaconesses  !     It  would  be   truly  indescribable  ! 

J.  WESTBURY  JONES,  M.A. 


A  Practical  Ministry. 

preparing  our  lady  workers  for  the  foreign  field,  it  became  apparent 
that  a  practical  course  of  Midwifery  would  not  only  be  an  inesti 
mable  boon  to  the  poor  women  in  many  lands,  with  whom  our  workers 
were  brought  into  contact  ;  but  also  to  the  married  missionaries 
themselves,  who  are  often  in  sore  need  of  just  such  help  as  maternity-nurses 
can  afford. 

Apart  altogether  from  the  physical  aspect  of  the  question,  we  remem 
bered  the  spiritual  value  of  such  work  both  at  home  and  abroad,  in  bringing 
our  lady  missionaries  into  personal  contact  with  Christless  women,  in  the 
hour  of  their  danger  and  their  need,  and  thus  establishing  a  firm  bond  of 
friendship  and  gratitude  which  in  due  time  might  lead  to  a  personal  know 
ledge  of  the  SAVIOUR. 


A.  YEAR'S  STUDENTS  AT  BROMLEY   HALL,  WITH   THE   LADY   SUPERINTENDENT,  LECTURER,  AND  SISTER. 


A     PRACTICAL     MINISTRY.  53 

This  triple  call  for  trained  missionary-nurses,  induced  us  in  1889  to  com 
mence  an  obstetric  department  of  work  at  Doric  Lodge,  and  later  in  the 
same  year  to  open  a  special  home  for  this  branch  of  service.  Miss  Rees, 
the  daughter  of  the  late  Pastor  Rees,  of  Sunderland,  was  the  first  Super 
intendent  of  the  new  work,  which  rapidly  grew  in  importance  until  it  be 
came  evident  in  1894  that  we  ought  to  secure  a  larger  home  in  a  some 
what  poorer  neighbourhood.  In  the  LORD'S  good  Providence  such  a 
Home  was  found  within  five  minutes'  walk  from  our  Mission  Centre  at 
Berger  Hall.  "  Bromley  Hall  "  is  a  fine  old  mansion,  built  long  ago  when 
King  James  had  his  hunting-lodge  near  by.  Now  a  vast  school  building 
covers  the  site  of  the  "  Old  Palace,"  as  it  was  called  twenty  years  ago. 
The  latter  was  one  of  the  earliest  scenes  of  my  own  evangelistic  work  in 
East  London,  and  the  very  name  reminds  one  of  days  that  never  can  be 
forgotten  by  any  who  were  privileged  to  see  the  movement  of  grace  that  swept 
hundreds  of  souls  into  the  Kingdom  of  GOD. 

BROMLEY  HALL 

has  comfortable,  airy  rooms,  and  though  it  is  very  ancient,  and 
costs  us  no  little  from  the  standpoint  of  repair,  it  is  the  very  house 
we  need,  and  in  the  very  neighbourhood.  Eventually,  Miss  Alice  Smith, 
the  daughter  of  a  well-known  Baptist  Minister,  became  Superintendent 
of  the  work,  and  for  five  years  was  the  trusted  and  beloved  head  of  the  Home. 
When  she  subsequently  heard  the  call  to  Argentina,  and  consecrated 
her  life  to  the  establishment  of  a  similar  movement  in  the  vast  city  of 
Buenos  Aires,  the  poor  mothers  in  Bromley  thought  the  whole  work  would 
come  to  an  end.  But  the  LORD  who  gave  us  one  efficient  Superintendent 
could  find  another,  and  as  the  result  of  the  profound  loss  which  overtook 
our  struggling  mission  in  Peru,  through  the  death  of  sainted  Will  Newell, 
his  wife  was  led  to  volunteer  for  the  post  vacated  by  Miss  Smith.  In  this 
sad  way,  Mrs.  Newell  and  her  dear  little  girls  came  to  Bromley  Hall,  and 
ever  since  our  valued  friend  has  been  the  heart  of  the  whole  movement. 
Nurses  and  mothers  all  love  her,  and  the  presence  of  the  children 
makes  the  old  house  seem  like  a  home  indeed.  I  was  down  there  one 
Wednesday  afternoon  lately,  and  what  a  crowd  of  women  and  babies  were 
gathered  together  for  the  afternoon  meeting,  and  how  they  appreciated 
the  cup  of  tea  at  the  close  !  Bromley  Hall  boasts  a  splendid  garden 
for  this  part  of  London,  in  spite  of  the  horizon  being  bounded  on  the  one 
side  by  gigantic  gasometers,  and,  on  the  other,  by  pyramids  of  oil-barrels 
accumulated  in  the  adjoining  business  premises.  When  the  spring 
time  comes,  or  the  hot,  close  days  of  summer  are  with  us,  then  it  is  that 


p-' 


\r\ 


A  MOTHERS'  TEA  PARTY  AT  BKOMLEY  HALL. 


the  mothers  find  special  delight  in  sitting  out  in  the  open  air  at  their  weekly 
Bible  talks. 

From  the  medical  standpoint  the  movement  has  been  very  successful,  and 
we  have  not  had  a  single  failure  in  the  examination  for  the  diploma  of  the 
Central  Midwives  Board.  Fifty-six  nurses  have  taken  this  examination  during 
the  last  four  years  and  nine  months,  and  five  other  students  who  were  with 
us  for  a  short  period  obtained  valuable  help  without  qualifying.  The 
fact  that  1,606  mothers  have  been  attended  in  four  years,  and  that  we  have 
only  to  record  two  deaths,  speaks  highly  for  the  work  done.  In  cases 
of  special  difficulty  Dr.  Milne  is  our  consultant,  and  day  and  night  has  he 
placed  his  valued  aid  at  our  disposal.  For  him  we  are  grateful  indeed, 
and  for  the  remarkable  success  which  the  LORD  has  been  pleased  to  grant 
to  this  department  of  service. 


A     PRACTICAL     MINISTRY. 


55 


Thirty  students  from  Doric  Lodge  have  obtained  their  diplomas  at 
Bromley  Hall  since  1904,  and  since  our  doors  are  occasionally  open  to  out 
side  students,  eleven  hospital  nurses  have  acquired  this  branch  of 
their  profession  there  Fifteen  outside  Christian  workers  have  also  passed 
through  the  Home,  which  is  one  of  the  Training  Institutions  recognized 
and  registered  by  the  Central  Midwives  Board.  The  average  number 
of  cases  attended  each  year  is  three  hundred  and  twenty-five,  and  these 
are  divided  between  the  twelve  students  who  during  that  period  pass 
through  their  course  of  training.  Mrs.  Newell  tells  a  good  story  of  how 
one  of  the  mothers  was  wont  to  tell  her  neighbours  that  if  ever  they  were 
in  trouble  and  needed  help,  they  should  "  go  to  them  '  Eternity '  nurses, 
and  they'll  help  you."  Very  funny,  but  very  appropriate.  "  Eternity 
nurses,"  indeed,  seeking  the  welfare  not  of  the  body  alone,  but  of  the  spirit 
so  neglected  and  starved  amidst  the  purlieus  of  East  London. 

H.  G.  G. 


AN  EAST  LONDON  STREET. 


56 

During 
Twenty-One  Years,  1887  to  1908, 

786    STUDENTS 

have  passed  through  the  Training  Institutions  of  the  Regions  Beyond 
Missionary  Union,  and  have  entered  into  work  resulting  in  their  distribution 
throughout  the  world  in  the  proportion  given  below  : — 

Men.         Women.          Total. 

Europe        128  78  206 

Asia 96  99  195 

Africa          120  94  214 

America       115  46  161 

Australasia..  9  1  10 


468         318  786 


Their    Distribution    amongst    the    Denominational  and 

Interdenominational    Missionary    Societies,  etc.,  has 
been    as  follows  :— 

Men.  Women.  Total. 

1.  Independent  Workers  and  Various  Societies        112  86  198 

2.  Regions  Beyond  Missionary  Union    77  61  138 

3.  Home  Mission  Work 68  24  92 

4.  China  Inland  Mission 39  36  75 

5.  Further  Training  in  Hospitals  and  Colleges...       38  22  60 

6.  Baptist  Societies            29  19  48 

7.  North  Africa  Mission 16  27  43 

8.  Congregational  Missions           28  11  39 

9.  Church  of  England  Missions 13  10  23 

10.  Presbyterian  Missions 13  7  20 

11.  Jewish  Missions 12  5  17 

12.  Bible  Societies 10  4  14 

13.  Plymouth  Brethren       6  6  12 

14.  Methodist  Missions                                                       7  —  7 


468    318      786 


57 


THE    SOCIETIES 

included  in  the  foregoing  table  as   "  various 
thirty-four,  as  follows: 


number 


1 .  Arthington  Aborigines  Mission. 

2.  Bible  Christian  Mission. 

3.  British  and  Foreign  Sailors' 

Society. 

4.  British  Syrian  Schools. 

5.  Cape  General  Mission. 

6.  Central  Sudan  Mission  (since 

defunct). 

7.  Ceylon  and  India  General  Mission. 

8.  Christian  and  Missionary  Alliance. 

9.  Friends'  Foreign  Missionary 

Society. 

10.  German  Mission  to  Cameroons. 

1 1 .  Help  for  Brazil  Mission. 

12.  Industrial  Missions'  Aid  Society. 

1 3.  International  Missionary  Alliance. 

14.  Ludhiana  Medical  Mission. 

15.  McCall  Mission. 

16.  Miss  de  Broen's  Mission. 

17.  Mission  Romande. 


18.  Mr.  St.  Dalmas'  Work  in  India. 

19.  Moravian  Missions. 

20.  Norwegian   Lutheran   Missionary 

Society. 

21.  Nyassa  Industrial  Mission. 

22.  Paris  Evangelical  Mission. 

23.  Paris    Evangelical    Mission    to 

Barotsi. 

24.  Qua  Iboe  Mission. 

25.  Salvation  Army. 

26.  Sudan  United  Mission. 

27.  Thibetan  Pioneer  Mission. 

28.  Victoria  Gospel  Press. 

29.  Welsh  Calvinistic  Mission. 

30.  Wesson  Harbour  Mission. 

31.  Women's  Board  of  Missions. 

32.  Zambezi  Industrial  Mission. 

33.  Zanzibar  Sailors'  Rest. 

34.  Zenana  Bible  and  Medical 

Mission. 


The  total  number  of  Students  trained 
at  Barley  College  and  Doric  Lodge 

since  the  Inauguration  of  the  Work  in  1873  is 

1,316. 


ffi 


r> 


PART  II. 


AMONGST  THE  PEOPLE 
AT  BERGER  HALL. 


THE     MOnE     NISSION     CEINTKE 
OF     THE     K.B.H.U. 


TH»  HUNGRY  CROWD  OUTSIDE. 


6o 


NOT     UNTO    US." 


A  Church  of  the  People." 


ERGER "   is  a  Church  of    the  People.     It  is  situated  where  it 
can  draw  only  on  the  poor  artisan  class.    It  has  done  this  for  more 
than  twenty  years,  and  is  doing  it  still. 
It    is    officered,    from    the  deacons 

down   to   the  caretaker,    by  men 

of    the    working   ranks. 

One  fact  will   suffice 

to    prove   this  :— 

Not     more     than 

three    out  of  our 

400  members  earn 

over  £2  a  week  ; 

indeed  the  average 

would  be  less  than 

15s.         It      must 

follow,    therefore, 

that    all    the    or 
gan  izations  are 

run    by     working 

people,       who, 

though   not    blest 

with  material  en 
dowments,  have  in 

many   cases  more 

than   average 

native  ability. 

Yes !  it  is  a  Church 

of      the      People. 

It    gives    the     lie 

to  the  statement, 

often  made,  that  the  working  classes,  as  such,  stand  aloof  from  the  churches  ; 

for  if  the  poor  did  not  come,  no  one  else  would,  and  Berger  would  soon 

be  a  home  for  cobwebs  and  beetles.     Some  one  may  ask,  "  How  are  they 

reached  ?  "     We  answer  on  the  human  plane  :     "  By  people  who  know 

the  people,"  who  share  the  burdens,  sorrows  and  cares  of  life,  who  toil 

the  round  of  the  year,  and  are  as  badly  off  at  its  finish  as  at  the  start, — 

only  a  year  older, — and  in  many  cases,  alas  !    with  less  strength  to  bear 


ON  MEDICAL  MISSION  DAY.     THE  CROW 


A   CHURCH    OF   THE   PEOPLE." 


61 


HAT    GATHERS    TO    SEEK    THE    DOCTOR'S    AlD 


the  strain.  It  follows,  then,  that  in  connection  with  such  a  church, 
where  all  are  more  or  less  on  one  level,  practical  work  becomes  a  paramount 
necessity,  and  institutions  such  as  the  Medical  Mission,  the  Soup  Kitchen 
and  Food  Depot,  Goose  Clubs  and  Clothing  Clubs,  prove  of  inestimable 
value  to  the  deserving  and  often  silent  poor. 

The  MEDICAL  MISSION  reaches  out  a  helping  hand 
to     some    8,000    attendants    every    year    and 
visitors    follow    up    wherever    possible, 
the  very  sick  cases,  not  merely 
to  pray  with  them,  but, 
if  possible,  to  carry 
relief      in      some 
practical  form. 

The  SOUP 
KITCHEN  AND 
FOOD  DEPOT, 
through  the  winter 
months  provides 
dinners  for  1,700 
half-starved  and 
starving  children, 
week  by  week. 
Cocoa  breakfasts 
are  also  given — 
about  100  a  day 
—to  the  children 
of  poor  widows, 
before  going  to 
school.  Twenty 
thousand  quarts 
of  soup  were  made 
and  distributed 
last  winter,  and  as 

many  fruit  puddings.  The  Goose  Club,  into  which  the  people  pay  sixpence 
a  week,  insures  that  those  who  join  have  a  good  Christmas  dinner. 

The  EVANGELISTIC  SPIRIT  expresses  itself  in  many  forms,  not  only 
in  services  on  the  LORD'S  day,  which  are  crowded,  but  in  steady  open-air 
work,  winter  and  summer,  in  cottage  meetings,  in  the  Men's  Own  Brother 
hood,  through  the  Bible  Classes,  and  the  Bible  School. 

The  women  are  reached  by  Sister  Ivy,  who  conducts  the  Women's  Own 


62  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

on  Wednesdays,  and  in  connection  with  this,  a  warm  Creche  provides 
for  the  entertainment  of  the  little  children  that  cannot  be  left  at  home. 

Night  Schools,  for  Factory  and  Work-room  girls,  are  held  on  two  nights 
a  week,  with  marked  success  from  the  physical  and  moral,  as  well  as  the 
spiritual,  point  of  view. 

The  children  in  the  Sunday  School  number  1,600,  including  the  Drift 
School,  where  the  roughest  and  most  ragged  children  are  gathered,  and 
taught  the  things  that  make  for  the  best  and  highest  in  this  life,  as  well  as 
in  the  life  beyond. 

It  may  be  said,  in  a  word,  that  "  Berger  "  represents  to  the  people  all 
that  is  finest  and  best,  and  religion,  therefore,  instead  of  wearing  a  sombre 
mask,  is  indeed  the  re-creation  of  the  people.  Its  gate  is  open  from  early 
dawn  till  ten  o'clock  at  night,  and  the  Pastor's  Vestry  is  an  enquiry  room 
for  all  sorts  of  questions,  wise  and  otherwise.  The  main  purpose  in  every 
thing  is  to  bring  in  the  Kingdom  of  CHRIST,  which  stands  for  all  that  is 
bright,  happy  and  healthy,  for  that  which  casts  over  the  dull  and  cloudy 
day  a  radiance  like  the  light  of  Easter  morning.  How  necessary  this  is 
may  be  shown  by  the  fact  that  the  people  come  from  the  one,  two,  or  three- 
roomed  tenement  ;  from  the  narrow,  ill-built  and  monotonous  alley  ; 
from  the  over-crowded  slum  ;  from  out  of  the  din  of  the  market-street, 
and  past  the  glare  of  the  gilded  drinking  saloons.  Bargemen  from  the 
murky  waters  of  London's  river,  and  the  babel  of  many  tongues  on  London's 
wharves  ;  girls  from  match,  and  chocolate,  and  clothing  factories,  where 
they  listen  all  day  to  the  noisy  hum  of  tireless  machines  ;  men,  from  City 
warehouses  and  offices  ;  women,  from  the  stuffy  work-room — these  all 
come  to  "  Berger  "  and  find  it  a  place  of  rest  for  their  weary  feet. 

DANIEL  HAYES. 


X 


Daniel   Hayes. 

AN  APPRECIATION. 


G 


ANTED  a  horse  to  do  the  work    of  a  parish  minister."      So 
ran  a  recent    northern  advertisement.     Nothing  less  than  a 
steam-engine  would  be  of  use  to  Mr.  Hayes.     With  the  help 
of  long  legs  and  a  high  gear,  his  "bike"  carries  him  through 
many  a  mile   of  mean  streets  and  on  countless  errands  of  mercy.     In  the 

image  of  the  good  Samari 
tan,  he  has  ceaseless  op 
portunities  for  courage 
and  charity,  for  often 
folks  are  left  half-dead, 
half  -  naked,  and  half- 
starved  in  the  dreary 
east.  At  "  Berger,"  a 
man  can  make  full  proof 
of  his  ministry.  He  must 
preach  as  if  he  had  no 
visits  to  pay  ;  visit  as  if 
he  had  no  sermons  to 
make ;  and  fill  up  his 
week-days  with  work  as 
if  there  were  no  Sundays 
to  come. 

A  heart  full  of  love,  a 
head  full  of  fresh  ideas, 
and  a  pair  of  hands  full 
of  work,  will  describe 
our  friend.  His  fellow 
ministers,  no  bad  judges, 
know  him  as  the  most 
brotherly  of  men ;  the 
enthusiastic  Secretary  of 
the  Free  Church  Federa 
tion  of  the  district ;  a  man  of  prayer,  filled  with  the  passion  for  soul- winning 
and  of  social  service  ;  and  a  plain  and  powerful  preacher  of  the  grace  of  GOD. 


THE  REV.  DANIEL  HAYES. 


64  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

Now  you  can  "  snap  "  him  among  the  bairns,  satisfying  their  hunger  and 
clothing  their  winter  nakedness  ;  or  helping  the  poor  with  medicines 
and  bandages,  that  ineradicable  Congo  fever  in  his  blood  the  while. 
Again,  he  is  comforting  the  old  folks  and  the  weary  mothers  ;  or  leading 
the  Saturday  prayer  meeting,  and  gathering  spiritual  momentum  for  the 
onslaught  of  the  morrow.  It  is  difficult  to  believe  that  the  preacher  of 
the  Sabbath  morning  with  some  quiet  and  uplifting  message  from  the 
unseen,  has  been  filling  the  week  with  most  exhausting  labour — perhaps, 
with  the  brass  band  and  willing  workers,  raking  the  gutters  and  the 
public-houses,  to  gather  up  and  bring  to  GOD,  souls  without  strength. 

The  only  conventional  thing  about  Mr.  Hayes  is  his  deep  earnestness, 
but  it  is  the  living  earnestness  of  love.  The  wooing  note  is  never  absent 
from  his  preaching.  To  comfort  saints,  and  to  save  sinners — that  sums 
up  his  motives  and  his  methods. 

The  children  swarm  in  "  Berger,"  and  every  week,  with  crayon  and  black 
board,  you  can  find  him  giving  200  of  the  boys  and  girls  regular  lessons 
in  the  Bible  books. 

Time  would  fail  even  to  name  all  the  agencies  of  which  he  is  the 
head  and  leader.  Life  in  East  London  soon  convinces  ministers  who  are 
in  earnest,  that  it  is  not  enough  to  be  the  preacher  or  pastor.  The  poverty 
is  so  chronic  ;  the  social  conditions  so  hurtful ;  the  drink  power  so  enormous, 
that  to  defend  the  people  against  themselves,  against  the  moral  debase 
ment  of  their  surroundings,  the  minister  must  play  a  lion's  part  in  their 
strife.  The  better  to  do  this,  Mr.  Hayes  became  a  member  of  the  Poplar 
Borough  Council,  and  devotes  a  good  part  of  his  time  to  those  Committees 
which  have  to  do  with  public  health,  and  the  morals  of  the  streets  and  of 
the  music  halls.  To  be  preacher,  and  pastor,  and  philanthropist,  and 
politician  all  rolled  into  one,  is  a  task  for  which  no  man  could  get  an  adequate 
return.  His  wage  is  the  wage  of  all  good  men — the  hatred  of  some  and  the 
love  of  many  more,  the  blessing  of  the  old,  the  affection  of  the  children, 
and  the  trust  and  confidence  of  those  who  follow  him  faithfully  in  the  wars 
of  the  LORD. 

FORBES  JACKSON,  M.A. 


PART   III. 


THE  CONFLICT  IN  CONQOLAIND 


£  ^  J 


RELIEF  MAP  OF  AFRICA,  SHOWING  THE  CONGO  RIVER  AND  THE  SPHERE  OF  THE  CONGO 

BALOLO  MISSION. 


A  Glance  at  Our  Sphere. 

''  HE  tremendous  need  of  the  Congo,  had  been  deeply  impressed  on 
our  hearts  and  minds  by  the  vicissitudes  of  the  early  Living 
stone  Inland  Mission,  and  when  that  movement  was  transferred 
in  1884  to  the  Baptists  of  America,  it  seemed  like  the  amputation 
of  a  missionary  limb.  For  four  years  the  East  London  Training 
Institute  was  cut  off  from  its  wonted  African  activities,  and  some  of  us  longed 
that  these  might  be  resumed.  This  feeling  became  greatly  intensified, 
when  within  a  few  months  of  my  appointment  as  London  Director,  one 
of  our  former  missionaries,  John  McKittrick,  returned  from  the  Upper 
Congo,  bringing  with  him  Bompole,  a  native  boy  from  the  Lulanga  river. 
The  people  he  represented  were  anxious  for  missionaries  to  settle  amongst 
them,  and  Mr.  McKittrick  was  eager  to  devote  his  life  to  the  task  of  their 
evangelization.  I  became  deeply  interested  in  Bompole  and  my  mind  was 
greatly  drawn  towards  the  new  enterprise.  At  length,  after  full  considera 
tion  and  months  of  prayer,  we  decided  that  if  our  American  Baptist  friends 
should  agree  to  transfer  John  McKittrick  in  order  that  he  might  become 
the  leader  of  a  new  mission,  we  would  undertake  to  begin  the  work.  To 
this  they  gladly  consented,  and  also  offered  to  lend  us  our  old  steamer,  the 
"  Henry  Reed,"  so  called  in  memory  of  my  father-in-law.  A  party  of  eight 
suitable  missionaries  volunteered,  and  after  an  arduous  series  of  meetings 
throughout  the  country  at  which  the  needs  of  the  new  field  were  presented, 
£1,700  was  available  to  start  the  CONGO  BALOLO  MISSION,  the  early  expe 
riences  of  which  are  described  by  my  cousin,  a  member  of  the  first  party, 
in  a  subsequent  article. 

Three  years  later,  I  visited  the  Congo,  and  shall  never  forget  some  of  the 
incidents  of  that  journey.  First,  there  was  the  stifling  tropical  weather 
we  endured  on  board  the  old  ss.  "  Afrikaan"  as  we  neared  the  Equator. 
My  diary  for  1891  vividly  recalls  the  stuffy  cabins  with  port-holes  closed  at 
night  for  fear  of  the  sudden  tornadoes  encountered  in  these  regions.  "  I 
slept,  and  almost  lived,  on  one  particular  seat  at  the  top  of  the  solitary 
hatchway  with  which  the  vessel  was  provided.  From  this  spot  I  watched 
the  lightning  flash  in  some  of  those  midnight  squalls  when,  through  the 
oppressive  air,  down  came  the  drenching  torrents  of  tropical  rain.  Flash  ! 
Flash  !  to  the  accompaniment  of  heaven's  artillery  !  The  spectacle  was  some 
times  awfully  grand,  but  when  the  lightning  was  almost  incessant  one  could 
not  help  remembering  that  the  ship's  hold  was  full  of  gunpowder  and  gin  ! " 


A     GLANCE     AT     OUR     SPHERE.  69 

On  May  5th,  we  reached  the  Congo,  and  I  can  still  remember  how  the 
"  outward  rush  of  the  muddy  river  encountered  the  pale  green  of  the  sea. 
Where  the  two  met,  the  waters  seemed  piled  up  in  a  distinct  wall  of 
agitated,  foaming  encounter,  the  sea  resenting  the  intrepid  intruder,*  and 
the  mighty  innovator  carrying  all  before  it." 

That  was  my  first  glimpse  of  the  glorious  river  which  discharges  one 
million  tons  of  water  every  second  into  the  waters  of  the  Atlantic,  and  drains 
a  basin  of  800,000  square  miles.  Diego  Cam  discovered  its  mouth  more 
than  four  hundred  years  ago,  but  the  Portuguese  were  effectually  debarred 
from  access  to  the  interior  of  the  continent  by  the  cataract  region,  which 
divides  the  lower  from  the  upper  river.  It  was  reserved  for  H.  M.  Stanley 
to  disclose  the  majestic  outline  of 

THE  UPPER  CONGO 

on  the  completion  of  his  first  memorable  trans-continental  journey  of 
discovery  in  1877,  and  some  idea  of  its  magnitude  may  be  conceived  from 
the  accompanying  diagram,  in  which  the  whole  river  is  projected  to  scale 
upon  the  map  of  Europe.  The  mouth,  seven  miles  wide,  corresponds  on 
the  map  to  Bordeaux,  and  if  we  trace  the  river  upwards,  we  find  it 
traversing  the  whole  of  France  and  Belgium,  and  embracing  Germany  in 
its  mighty  bend,  ere  turning  southward  through  Austro-Hungary,  Servia 
and  Turkey  to  the  Black  Sea.  It  will  also  be  seen  that  its  tributary 
streams  stretch  from  beyond  Upsala  in  the  north  to  Sardinia  and  Corsica 
in  the  south  ;  and  from  Smyrna  in  Asia  Minor  in  the  east  to  the  Bay  of 
Biscay  in  the  west. 

The  sphere  which  the  Congo  Balolo  Mission  proposed  to  enter  with  the  Gospel 
is  the  home  of  the  Lolo  peoples,  a  sphere  as  large  as  Germany.  Bounded 
on  three  sides  by  the  Congo's  horse-shoe  bend,  it  is  opened  to  navigation  by  a 
series  of  magnificent  tributaries  to  the  main  river.  These  water  highways 
give  free  access  to  innumerable  native  villages,  some  of  which  are  close  to 
the  bank,  whilst  others,  from  considerations  of  safety,  are  built  at  a  little 
distance  from  the  water,  in  vast  clearings  of  the  forest.  Many  of  the  more 
important  centres  of  population  are  situated  on  the  higher  ground  which 
constitutes  the  watershed  between  the  various  rivers,  but  even  these  are 
comparatively  easy  of  access,  as  probably  no  portion  of  the  country  is  more 
than  fifty  miles  removed  from  one  or  another  of  its  many  streams. 

In  these  tracts  of  country,  our  workers  have  come  into  contact  with 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  benighted  savages  during  the  past  twenty  years, 
and  whilst  the  population  of  Lololand  is  unknown,  and  Stanley's  approxi 
mate  estimate  of  ten  millions  is  certainly  inaccurate,  the  fact  remains  that 
the  Congo  Balolo  Mission  occupies  a  sphere  of  immense  importance,  and  of 
practically  unlimited  extent.  H.  G.  G. 


0 


J 


How  We  Entered  the  Land. 


UGUST  24th,  1889,  was  a  memorable  day  in  the  annals  of  the 
Congo  Balolo  Mission,  and  from  the  minds  of  the  little  group 
of  white  men  on  board  the  mission  steamer  "  Henry  Reed," 
the  memories  of  that  day  can  never  be  effaced.  The  captain 
of  the  boat  had  told  us  the  previous  evening  that  we  should  enter  the 
Lulanga  River  in  a  few  hours,  and  when  we  started  off  at  dawn,  our  hearts 
beat  high  with  eager  longings  and  glad  expectations.  Were  we  not  on  the 
verge  of  entering  the  country  to  which  GOD  had  called  us  ;  and  towards 
which  we  had  been  travelling  for  many  months  ?  Of  its  people,  their 
numbers,  their  habits  and  language  we  knew  almost  nothing,  though  many 
stories  of  their  warlike  character,  their  ferocity  and  cannibalistic  tendencies 
had  been  related  to  us  by  the  natives  down  river. 

As  we  approached  the  place  where  the  Lulanga  flows  into  the  Congo, 
we  discerned  indications  of  large  settlements  on  the  banks  of  the  river, 
and  steaming  slowly  up  could  see  immense  crowds  standing  on  the  left  bank 
as  far  as  the  eye  could  reach.  No  women  or  children  were  visible  ;  only 
men  fully  armed  had  come  out  to  gaze  upon  the  mysterious  "  smoke-canoe," 
and  we  did  not  need  our  interpreter  to  tell  us  that  these  large  crowds  wore 
a  distinctly  hostile  attitude,  and  that  it  would  be  dangerous  to  attempt 
a  landing  or  even  to  slacken  speed.  We  bade  him  salute  these  fierce-looking 
warriors  in  our  name,  tell  them  that  our  mission  was  a  peaceful  one,  and 
ask  for  food.  But  the  only  response  was  threatening  looks  and  wild  gesti 
culations  with  spear  and  bow.  So  putting  up  our  arrow-guards,  we  went 
on  our  way,  passing  for  some  distance  by  a  beach  thickly  lined  with  people. 
Just  beyond  the  towns  we  cast  anchor  for  the  night  in  mid-stream,  and 
determined  to  make  friends  before  going  further.  In  this  we  were  successful, 
and  were  able  to  buy  some  provisions,  though  we  could  not  induce  the 
women  to  come  out  of  their  hiding  places. 

The  following  day  we  proceeded  up  river  and  passed  through  other 
populous  districts,  the  inhabitants  of  which  came  out  to  look  at  us  and  in 
some  cases  to  greet  us  with  shouts  and  the  beating  of  drums.  Our  be 
haviour  at  the  mouth  of  the  river  had  apparently  disarmed  suspicion, 
for  there  were  no  more  warlike  demonstrations.  The  news  of  our  arrival 


7i  "NOT     UNTO     OS." 

was  telephoned  from  one  village  to  another,  and  our  interpreter  was  able 
to  tell  us  some  of  the  messages  beaten  out  on  the  drums — "  The  white 
man,  Englesa,  has  come  to  sit  down  with  us."  Thus  the  news  spread. 
At  last  we  came  to  a  halt  at  the  town  of  Bonginda,  where  dwelt  the  most 
important  chief  on  the  river,  a  man  who  had  once  seen  a  missionary  and 
had  asked  for  teachers.  But  as  we  neared  the  landing-place,  the  noise 
and  smoke  of  the  steamer  terrified  the  poor  folk  and  they  fled  en  masse 
to  the  bush.  Some  hours  passed  in  unavailing  attempts  to  get  at  them. 
Then  we  threw  a  handful  of  beads  on  the  ground  in  front  of  the  steamer, 
and  by  degrees  a  few  of  the  bolder  spirits  ventured  out  into  the  open  to 
pick  them  up.  With  these  men  we  made  friends,  and  in  less  than  half- 
an-hour  the  beach  simply  swarmed  with  men,  women  and  children,  while 
the  "  Reed  "  was  surrounded  by  an  eager,  chattering  crowd  in  their  shaky- 
looking  canoes.  Fear  and  distrust  seemed  to  have  vanished  completely, 
and  it  was  only  when  darkness  fell  that  we  could  get  rid  of  them. 

Work  began  in  earnest  the  next  morning.     The  old  chief, 

MATA  IBENGE, 

came  in  state  to  visit  us,  bringing  a  long  train  of  wives  and  slaves,  and 
invited  us  to  land.  This  we  promptly  did,  and  were  accompanied  every 
where  by  a  gaping  and  gossiping  crowd.  The  women  were  clothed  in 
short  grass  petticoats,  the  men  in  tiny  pieces  of  bark  cloth.  The  bodies 
of  all  alike  were  covered  with  a  mixture  of  palm-oil  and  camwood,  and 
decorated  with  a  variety  of  tattoo  marks,  indicating  their  different  tribes. 
Their  woolly  hair  was  cut,  and  twisted  into  all  sorts  of  extraordinary  shapes, 
some  of  them  most  elaborate.  The  chiefs  were  distinguished  by  their 
head-dresses,  made  of  monkey  skin.  A  great  palaver  was  arranged  and 
attended  by  hundreds  of  these  wild-looking  people.  A  heated  discussion 
took  place  as  to  whether  we  were  to  be  allowed  to  settle  among  them. 
We,  of  course,  could  not  understand  what  was  said,  but  the  expressive 
gestures  of  the  orators  told  us  plainly  if  they  were  speaking  for  or  against 
us.  The  matter  was  decided  by  the  king's  chief  speaker,  old  Mata  Lokota, 
who,  amid  furious  excitement  declared  in  our  favour.  Presents  were  ex 
changed  and  we  took  possession  of  our  new  home.  Then  for  the  first  time 
we  had  an  opportunity  of  declaring  our  message  to  these  Balolo  people. 
As  our  interpreter  finished  a  murmur  of  assent  went  round  and  our  hearts 
were  thrilled  as  Mata  Lokota  rose  up  and  replied  : — "  These  words  are 
good,  white  man  ;  you  shall  be  our  father  and  we  will  be  your  children." 

And  so  we  had  been  brought  to  the  haven  we  had  sought  for,  and  were 
filled  with  rejoicing.  Our  song  was,  "  The  LORD  hath  done  great  things 
for  us,  whereof  we  are  glad."  In  the  months  and  years  which  followed 


HOW     WE     ENTERED     THE     LAND.  73 

the  work  was  often  fraught  with  difficulty — sometimes  with  danger — 
hut  the  joy  and  privilege  of  carrying  the  (iospel  into  these  "  Regions 
Beyond  "  more  than  atoned  for  all. 

One  of  our  first  duties  on  settling  down  was  to  explore  our  parish  and 
find  out  if  possihle  the  numher  of  inhabitants.  In  whatever  direction  we 
turned,  we  found  dozens  of  towns  and  villages.  The  mission  centre  stood 
in  the  middle  of  a  long  string  of  towns,  extending  for  over  two  miles.  At 
the  hack  of  these  were  many  slave  settlements,  dotted  here  and  there  in 
the  bush,  while  on  an  island  opposite  was  the  largest  single  town  we  had 
seen,  where  lived  twelve  hundred  people.  Wherever  we  went  we  were 
followed  by  swarms  of  our  dark  brothers  and  sisters,  and  even  in  our  own 
little  house  it  was  quite  impossible  to  get  any  privacy.  Doors  and  windows 
acted  only  as  frames  for  the  heads  and  shoulders  of  a  continuous  crowd 
of  visitors  who  laughed  and  chattered  ceaselessly.  They  were  very  like 
children,  easily  amused,  and  full  of  excited  interest  in  everything.  It 
seemed  quite  hopeless  to  get  any  quiet  time  for  study  or  anything  else. 
On  one  occasion  we  closed  the  house  to  try  to  get  some  peace  from  the 
incessant  babel  of  voices.  The  men  outside  were  somewhat  disconcerted 
and  one  remarked  to  the  others  : — "  These  white  people  have  shut  the 
doors  ;  they  are  doing  something  they  are  ashamed  of."  Needless  to  say, 
we  promptly  re-opened  them. 

But  though  on  the  whole  we  received  a  hearty  welcome,  there  were 
some  who  set  themselves  against  the  missionaries  from  the  first.  Ibenge, 
a  great  chief  and  famous  warrior,  was  our  inveterate  enemy,  and  vowed 
to  kill  any  native  who  should  teach  us  the  language.  He  also  tried  to 
prevent  the  people  bringing  us  food,  but  as  his  authority  was  limited  to  his 
own  town,  he  could  not  seriously  hurt  us  in  that  way.  Then  he  formed 

A  PLOT  TO  KILL  US 

all  and  burn  the  station  and  seize  our  goods.  He  took  into  his  confidence 
three  other  unfriendly  chiefs,  and  on  a  given  day  all  the  boys  and  men 
employed  on  the  station  ran  away  and  left  us.  Then,  as  the  shades  of 
evening  fell  and  we  were  quite  deserted,  we  surmised  that  something  was 
wrong.  As  we  waited  and  watched,  one  of  our  boys — Nyanga — crept 
up  to  the  back  of  the  house  and  told  us  the  terrible  scheme  to  destroy  us 
all,  which  was  to  be  carried  out  that  night.  We  could  do  nothing  but 
cast  ourselves  on  GOD.  Within  an  hour  we  heard  the  whistle  of  a  steamer, 
and  realized  with  deep  thankfulness  that  our  lives  were  saved. 

The  next  morning  we  went  boldly  to  Mata  Ibenge  and  asked  him  to  call 
a  palaver  that  we  might  enquire  of  the  people  the  reason  of  their  wishing 
to  get  rid  of  us.  Hundreds  of  them  assembled  in  our  palaver-house,  and 


A  CONGO  WITCH  DOCTOR. 


HOW     WE     ENTERED     THE     LAND.  75 

after  prolonged  discussion  we  found  out  Ibenge's  share  in  the  matter. 
The  bulk  of  the  people  knew  nothing  of  his  designs.  The  witch-doctors, 
as  a  class,  used  all  their  arts  to  drive  us  out  of  the  country.  They  seemed 
to  know  that  if  once  the  people  accepted  our  message,  their  livelihood 
would  be  gone.  If  one  of  our  party  was  ill,  the  witch-doctor  gave  out  that 
he  had  caused  the  illness,  and  the  malign  influence  these  wicked  men 
exercised  over  the  others  was  so  great  that  they  believed  entirely  in  all 
their  vile  impostures,  and  feared  to  offend  them.  One  or  two  stories 
will  serve  to  illustrate  the  power  they  possessed.  A  poor  girl  called  Bokwala, 
whose  husband  had  died,  came  to  us  for  protection,  as  her  brother-in-law 
had  tried  to  sell  her  to  the  Ngombe.  In  a  few  days  she  fell  ill,  and  in  spite 
of  all  our  efforts  grew  gradually  worse,  nor  could  we  discover  what  ailed 
her.  In  a  few  weeks  she  seemed  to  be  at  the  point  of  death,  when  another 
girl  told  me  that  Nkumu, 

A  CELEBRATED  WITCH-DOCTOR, 

or  bonganga,  was  making  bote  to  kill  her.  This  explained  everything,  so 
off  we  went  to  the  town  to  interview  the  old  man.  He  declared,  of  course, 
that  he  could  not  make  bote  and  could  not  kill  Bokwala,  so  we  invited  him  to 
come  to  the  station  and  inform  the  girl  herself.  This  was  quite  a  different 
matter,  and  he  refused  to  budge.  However,  anticipating  trouble,  we  had 
not  come  alone,  and  let  him  know  that  he  should  be  dragged  to  the  station,  if 
necessary,  but  come  he  must.  Bokwala  was  carried  down  to  the  palaver- 
house  and  we  made  Nkumu  repeat  in  her  hearing  what  he  had  said  to  us. 
The  effect  was  magical.  The  following  day  the  girl  was  distinctly  better, 
and  within  ten  days  was  quite  well  again. 

On  another  occasion,  some  brass  rods  had  been  stolen,  and  the  owner 
of  them  went  to  fetch  a  bonganga  to  find  out  the  thief.  An  old  fellow 
named  Nkoi  came  along  with  a  flat  iron  bell  and  a  blue  glass  bead.  The 
palaver  started  without  our  knowledge,  and  when  we  went  out  we  found 
it  in  full  swing.  We  entered  the  palaver-house,  where  five  or  six  hundred 
folk  were  gathered  together,  forming  a  circle  round  Nkoi.  He  chanted 
an  incantation,  bringing  in  the  name  of  Eleku,  and  when  this  was  concluded 
rubbed  the  bead  on  his  bare  leg.  He  then  placed  it  on  the  bell  and  the 
bead  fell  off.  This  indicated  that  Eleku  was  not  the  guilty  one,  and  a 
hum  of  approbation  went  round.  He  proceeded  in  the  same  fashion 
with  fifteen  other  names,  and  in  each  case  the  bead  when  placed  on  the  bell 
dropped  off.  Then  he  brought  in  the  name  of  Bompole,  went  through 
the  same  performance,  and  after  shaking  the  bell  the  bead  remained  where 
it  had  been  placed.  This  was  proof  positive  that  Bompole  was  the  culprit. 
The  missionary  immediately  went  and  stood  by  Bompole' s  side  to  prevent 


76  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

the  crowd  seizing  and  perhaps  killing  him  on  the  spot.  Then  he  faced 
the  people,  and  asked  that  they  would  listen  to  him.  He  would  finish 
the  palaver.  They  assented,  and  very  reluctantly  the  wretched  old  de 
ceiver  handed  over  his  stock-in-trade  to  the  white-man,  who  very  speedily 
exposed  the  tricks  by  which  the  natives  had  been  bamboozled  for  years. 
One  side  of  the  bell  was  thickly  coated  with  grease,  the  other  was  clean, 
and  when  he  wanted  the  bead  to  stick  he,  of  course,  put  it  on  the  dirty 
side.  There  were  roars  of  laughter  when  the  process  was  explained,  and 
shouts  of  : — "  The  white-man  is  the  biggest  bonganga."  This  excitement 
was  succeeded  by  angry  murmurs,  and  I  quickly  escorted  Nkoi  to  our 
house  until  the  folk  dispersed,  and  the  next  day  he  left  the  district  and 
never  returned.  Nor  was  he  the  only  one  whose  deceit  and  foolish  tricks 
were  brought  to  light  by  the  missionaries,  and  before  many  months  had 
elapsed  we  were  troubled  no  more  by  the  witch-doctor  fraternity,  though 
some  still  practised  their  arts  in  secret. 

We  were  not  long  in  the  country  before  realizing  that  "  The  dark  places 
of  the  earth  are  full  of  the  habitations  of  cruelty." 

SLAVERY 

was  then  responsible  for  many  of  the  barbarous  practices  carried  on.  The 
king  once  called  a  palaver  at  which  the  prices  of  food,  maize,  manioca,  etc., 
were  discussed,  and  a  law  made  to  fix  them  at  a  certain  rate.  To  seal  this 
law  the  people  united  to  purchase  a  man,  who  was  treated  in  the  following 
manner  : — He  was  tightly  bound  in  a  sitting  position,  while  his  arms  and  legs 
were  broken  with  a  wooden  club,  then  he  was  put  into  a  canoe  and  conveyed  to 
a  desert  island.  There  his  murderers  tied  him  to  a  tree  and  left  him  to  perish, 
attacked  by  heat,  hunger,  thirst,  birds  of  prey,  and  perchance  wild  beasts. 

A  slave  woman  was  found  guilty  of  stealing  some  food.  The  people 
of  her  town  gathered  together,  and  after  breaking  her  limbs  rushed  at  her 
with  spears  and  knives,  and  continued  spearing  and  stabbing  her  all  over 
the  body  until  she  died,  when  the  head  was  cut  off  and  the  body  thrown 
into  the  river,  there  to  be  devoured  by  crocodiles. 

Whenever  a  free  man  died,  one  or  more  of  his  wives  and  some  slaves 
were  put  to  death  with  him,  and  sometimes  with  the  most  horrible  tortures. 
I  shall  remember  as  long  as  I  live  the  first  funeral  procession  I  ever  witnessed 
in  that  dark  land.  A  free  boy  had  died  during  the  night.  His  friends 
put  the  body  into  a  canoe,  with  a  little  slave  girl  underneath.  We  saw 
them  pass  the  station  and  asked  one  of  the  men  what  was  the  matter. 
He  pointed  to  a  small  island  towards  which  the  canoe  was  being  steered, 
and  as  we  looked  we  saw  the  warm  body  of  the  living  child  put  into  a  hole, 
and  the  dead  boy  placed  on  the  top  and  the  grave  filled  in. 


HOW  WE  ENTERED  THE  LAND.  77 

Sometimes  a  rich  chief  would  indulge  in  a  perfect  orgy  of  murder,  merely 
for  sport  and  to  show  what  a  great  man  he  was.  One  of  these  was  Molongo 
of  Bokenoyla,  who  in  one  week  killed  in  sheer  wantonness  thirty-three 
of  his  slaves.  Many  times  we  have  picked  out  of  the  water  children  who 
had  been  thrown  away  by  their  masters  because  they  were  weakly  or 
ill.  Our  minds  grew  sick  and  our  hearts  tired  of  hearing  and  seeing  these 
deeds  of  cruelty.  Some  of  them  formed  part  and  parcel  of  their  super 
stitious  worship,  while  others  were  enforced  by  native  law. 

Our  first  months  were  very  much  disturbed  by  the  quarrels  and  fightings 
which  were  of  daily  occurrence.  One  family  would  be  at  war  with  another 
family  ;  one  village  with  another  ;  the  folk  this  side  of  the  river  with  those 
on  the  other  side.  And  nearly  every  day  men 'dashed  through  the  station, 
got  up  in  all  their  war-paint,  their  bodies  covered  with  chalk  or  yellow 
ochre,  with  head-dresses  of  feathers  or  skins,  knives  tied  on  to  their  bodies, 
and  each  one  carrying  several  spears.  Drums  were  beaten  and  horns 
blown,  and  the  procession  was  accompanied  by  men  and  women  yelling 
and  howling  like  demoniacs.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  fight  there  would  per 
haps  be  a  dance  in  the  town,  and  this  was  as  repulsive  and  more  disgusting 
than  the  more  warlike  demonstration.  The  dancers  were  daubed  with 
white,  yellow,  and  red  clay,  and  performed  barbarous  contortions  with 
their  bodies.  Sight  and  sound  were  alike 

HIDEOUS  AND  REVOLTING- 
more  like  pandemonium  than  anything  I  can  imagine. 

And  yet  these  people  in  all  their  darkness  and  degradation  have  much 
about  them  that  is  lovable,  and  the  longer  we  lived  among  them  the  more 
we  found  to  like  in  them.  Generally  speaking,  they  are  anxious  to  please 
the  white-man,  and  attach  themselves  readily  to  one  who  treats  them 
kindly.  We  once  visited  a  strange  town  where  the  women  literally  wore 
nothing,  but  as  soon  as  I  told  them  that  we  did  not  like  this  custom,  they 
all  ran  off  to  the  bush  and  decked  themselves  out  in  large  leaves.  And 
very  seldom  have  we  been  to  any  town  or  district  where  we  were  not  accorded 
a  hearty  welcome.  And  more  than  once  we  received  very  substantial  tokens  of 
their  affection.  On  one  occasion  one  of  our  houses  was  burned  down, 
and  the  following  day  a  messenger  arrived  from  the  king  to  say  that  he 
wanted  to  have  a  palaver.  We  went  down  to  the  palaver-house,  and 
what  was  our  astonishment  when  king  and  people  presented  us  with  a 
fine  goat,  and  moreover  utterly  declined  to  take  any  gift  in  return.  They 
talked  a  great  deal,  but  the  gist  of  it  all  was  this,  "  Our  white-man  has 
had  his  house  burned  down  ;  he  is  a  very  good  white-man  and  loves  us 
and  we  love  him,  and  so  we  have  brought  a  goat  for  him."  Afterwards, 


MATA  IBENGE. 


78  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

pointing  to  the  animal,  the  old  king  added, 
"  This  is  our  love.  If  we  did  not  love  you, 
would  we  bring  you  a  goat  ? "  This  was 
certainly  conclusive  evidence  of  their  feeling  for 
us,  and  appreciated  accordingly. 

When  first  we  saw  Mata  Ibenge  he  was  wearing 
a  fine  necklace  of  leopards'  teeth,  and  this  we 
had  often  tried  to  buy  from  him.  But  in  vain ; 
nothing  would  induce-  him  to  part  with  this 
sign  of  royalty.  On  the  day  of  our  departure 
for  England  he  came  to  bid  us  farewell,  and 
as  we  were  saying  good-bye,  the  dear  old  man 
took  off  his  much-prized  necklace  and  put  it 
in  my  hands,  saying,  "  This  is  to  talk  to  you  in 
your  own  country  and  tell  you  to  make  haste 
back  to  us.  You  will  remember  Mata  Ibenge 
when  you  look  at  his  gift." 

At  that  time,  less  than  three  years  after  our  arrival  in  the  country,  a 
great  change  had  come  over  the  people  of  the  district.  Fighting  had 
practically  ceased  among  themselves,  and  young  folk,  who,  before  the 
advent  of  the  white-men,  would  not  have  dared  to  go  alone  beyond  their 
own  village  for  fear  of  being  kidnapped  and  sold  as  slaves,  moved  about 
freely  from  place  to  place  and  were  unmolested.  Spears  and  other  weapons 
were  buried,  and  though  this  was  an  innovation  which  was  heartily  dis 
liked  by  some,  most  of  them  agreed  that  the  white-man's  habit  of  going 
about  unarmed  was  the  best.  We  invited  all  and  sundry  to  come  and 
talk  their  palavers  on  the  mission  station.  In  many  cases  this  was  done. 
This  naturally  occupied  a  great  deal  of  the  missionary's  time,  as  one  was 
always  present  on  these  occasions.  But  by  this  means  bloodshed  was 
avoided,  and  frequently  palavers  which  had  lasted  for  more  than  a  genera 
tion  were  amicably  settled. 

Public  feeling  changed,  too,  with  regard  to  the  murder  of  slaves  and  other 
barbarous  usages.  In  the  early  days,  the  natives  publicly  boasted  of  their 
cruel  deeds  and  laughed  at  our  horror.  But  in  a  very  short  time  they  tried 
to  conceal  them  from  us  as  if  ashamed  of  them.  And  before  we  left,  it 
had  become  the  exception  and  not  the  rule  for  a  slave  to  be  badly  treated. 
And  what  is  true  of  this  one  mission-centre  and  its  surroundings,  is  equally 
true  of  others.  Again  it  has  been  proved  in  Lolo-Land  that  Christianity 
is  the  great  uplifting  and  regenerating  force  which  can  transform  individual 
men  and  women  and  whole  communities.  DORA  McKENZiE. 


Pioneering  Work. 

ITS    DIFFICULTIES,    DANGERS    AND    RESULTS. 


'ANY  of  the  difficulties  and    dangers   inseparable    from    the    in 
auguration  of  work  in  Central  Africa   are   now,  so   far    as    the 
Congo  Balolo  Mission  is  concerned,  ancient  history.     How  they 
were  met  and  overcome  would    make    a    thrilling    and    soul- 
inspiring  narrative. 

From  1889,  when  the  pioneer  party  of  the  Congo  Balolo  Mission  arrived 
in  the  Congo  Free  State,  until  May,  1898,  when  the  Lower  Congo  Railway 
was  opened,  all  the  tremendous  difficulties  of  the  caravan  journey  had  to 
be  contended  with.  For  a  distance  of  230  miles,  between  Matadi  and 
Leopoldville,  all  loads  had  to  be  transported  on  the  heads  or  backs  of 
native  porters,  while  Europeans  desirous  of  proceeding  to  the  upper  reaches 
of  the  Congo  were  compelled  to  travel  that  230  miles  on  foot,  or  with  the 
help  of  a  hammock.  In  those  days  it  was  no  uncommon  sight  to  see,  lying 
by  the  wayside,  the  bleached  bones  of  carriers  who,  having  fallen  beneath 
their  loads,  had  been  left  to  die  where  they  fell.  There  being  no  friendly 
hand  to  give  a  decent  burial,  the  corpses  were  allowed  to  remain  as  food 
for  wild  birds  and  beasts. 

The  task  of  loading  up  a  caravan  was  no  light  one.  Either  the  package 
would  be  too  heavy  or  too  bulky,  or  it  had  some  other  defect.  The  mis 
sionaries  in  charge  of  this  department  had  certainly  to  be  as  "  wise  as 
serpents,"  and  they  needed  the  patience  of  a  Job.  I  well  remember  offering 
a  load  to  a  native  porter,  but  he  refused  it  as  being  too  heavy— it  weighed 
54  Ibs.  I  offered  him  another,  which  he  took  with  delight— its  weight 
was  76  Ibs.  !  He  was  perfectly  satisfied. 

The  gigantic  difficulties  involved  in  transporting  the  ss.  "  Pioneer," 
given  to  the  Mission  by  the  Y.M.C.A.  Institutes  of  Ireland,  and  especially 
of  Belfast,  cannot  be  imagined,  and  consequently  they  defy  description. 
Any  but  the  stoutest  heart  would  have  been  easily  daunted  at  the  prospect 
of  carrying  so  many  loads  such  a  distance.  Our  brave  brother  Todd  had, 
by  persistent  effort,  got  together  a  caravan  of  four  hundred  men  to  deal 
with  it  in  as  many  sections.  The  heavy  pieces,  weighing  360  Ibs.  each, 


So 


NOT     UNTO     US." 


were  not  transported  for  230  miles  without  many  palavers,  but  patience 
and  perseverance,  by  the  good  hand  of  GOD  on  His  servants,  won  the 
day,  and  every  load  was  safely  landed  at  its  destination.  The  greatest 
trouble  was  with  the  cylinders,  which  had  to  be  carried  by  many  men  on 
poles  which  were  frequently  breaking. 

Then  there  were  physical  difficulties,  which  were  often  very  real  dangers, 
to  be  faced.  The  Mpalabala  Hill,  for  instance,  was  a  towering  trial.  How 
many  missionaries,  I  wonder,  have  had  an  introduction  to  their  first  African 
fever  as  a  result  of  that  exhausting  climb  :  I  have  heard  of  at  least  one  who 
when  he  had  reached  half-way  to  the  top  wished  to  remain  there  to  die 
in  peace. 

The  rivers,  or  streams,  constituted  a  veritable  danger-difficulty  in  the 
wet  season.  On  one  occasion,  when  "  on  the  road,"  forging  ahead  to  reach 
a  Mission  Station  for  the  week-end,  we  were  caught  in  a  storm — a  typical 
African  tornado.  For  a  short  time  we  sheltered,  after  which  we  all  made 
haste,  as  there  was  one  more  river  to  cross,  and  every  moment  would  make 
the  crossing  less 
possible.  When 
we  reached  it, 
the  men  p  e  r  - 
suaded  us  to  take 
the  risk  of  ford 
ing  it  at  once. 
Two  of  the  tallest 
and  steadiest  of 
the  carriers  took 
up  the  hammock, 
and  by  placing 
the  pole  on  their 
heads,  succeeded 
in  getting  us 
over,  although  in 
the  middle  of  the 
stream  the  centre 
of  the  hammock 
was  touching  the 
water.  One  false 
step,  one  slip, 
and  we  would 
have  been  pre- 


THE  ss.  "  PIONEER." 


PIONEERING     WORK.  81 

cipitated  into  the  rushing,  swirling  torrent.  We  were  informed  by  our 
friends  at  the  Mission  House  that  had  we  not  crossed  just  then,  we  should 
have  had  to  remain  on  the  opposite  bank  for  perhaps  four  days. 

In  the  dry  season  another  considerable  danger  had  to  be  encountered 
in  the  grass  fires.  It  was  often  necessary  to  make  a  wide  detour  to  avoid 
the  danger  zone,  or  to  make  a  rapid  advance  or  hasty  retreat  to  escape 
from  the  onrushing  flames. 

Exposure  was  often  unavoidable  on  the  caravan  route.  Tramping  for 
hours  with  a  temperature  between  80  and  100  degrees  in  the  shade  would 
naturally  make  one  somewhat  warm.  It  was  no  uncommon  experience 
to  arrive  at  the  camp  soaked  with  perspiration,  only  to  find  that  the  carriers 
with  your  change  of  clothing  had  either  gone  on  or  were  lagging  behind. 
Perhaps,  however,  that  was  preferable  to  the  information  that  the  porter 
with  the  "  chop  "  box  had  gone  on  further,  for  that  probably  meant  going 
hungry  to  bed. 

LOOKING   BACK 

over  those  early  days  and  contemplating  the  difficulties  and  dangers  of  the 
Lower  Congo  journey,  we  no  longer  wonder  that  some  of  our  strongest  men 
broke  down,  absolutely  collapsed,  ere  its  first  stage  was  completed.  One 
such  was  our  brother  William  Watson.  No  man  entered  the  Congo  with 
a  more  brilliant  past  or  with  brighter  hopes,  yet  ere  he  had  finished  the 
caravan  route  his  journey  had  ended  and  he  was  called  into  the  Presence  of 
the  King  :  a  martyr  to  the  treacherous  African  climate. 

Thanks  to  the  skill  of  European  engineers,  the  points  between  the  navig 
able  parts  of  the  Upper  and  Lower  Congo  have  now  been  connected  by  a 
railway.  The  walk  of  230  miles,  with  all  its  hardships,  is,  therefore,  obviated. 
In  two  days, without  exposure  or  fatigue,  the  Cataract  region  is  now  traversed 
and  loads  are  transported  with  expedition  and  ease. 

When  the  "Pioneer"  was  launched  on  the  Upper  Congo,  very  little 
was  known  about  the  river.  Many  of  the  dangers  of  its  navigation  had 
scarcely  been  heard  of,  and  there  were  no  reliable  charts  for  the  guidance 
of  the  steamer  captain.  The  channel  had  not  been  clearly  defined  at  the 
time.  Rocks  and  snags  abounded  in  parts  of  the  river,  and  the  numerous 
sandbanks  were  constantly  changing  their  positions.  Although  the 
"  Pioneer"  has  made  more  than  one  interesting  discovery  of  hidden  rocks, 
yet  she  is  to-day  actively  engaged  on  the  river. 

In  August,  1889,  when  the  first  party  of  the  Congo  Balolo  Mission  arrived 
on  tlu1  Lulanga,  negotiations  were  quickly  and  successfully  carried 
through  for  the  purchase  of  a  site  for  the  first  mission  station,  and  then 
arose  the  house-building  difficulty. 


A  MISSION  HOUSE  AT  BARINGA. 

The  erection  of  permanent  dwelling-houses  involved  the  missionaries 
in  many  weeks  of  hard  manual  labour.  The  natives  had  not  hitherto 
seen  European  tools,  consequently  they  had  to  be  taught  to  use  saw  and 
plane  ;  trowel  and  plumb  ;  spade  and  rake.  The  forest  had  to  be  visited, 
trees  selected,  felled,  taken  home,  ripped  up  and  prepared  for  use.  Clay 
had  to  be  dug  and  mixed,  bricks  moulded  and  burned,  and  finally  laid. 
All  this  hard,  exhausting  work  devolved  upon  the  white  man,  until  he  had 
taught  the  natives  how  to  do  it — a  contrast  to  to-day,  when  we  have  modern, 
sanitary  houses  on  each  station,  erected  by  our  well-manned  Building 
Department.  All  the  skilled  labour  necessary  for  this  work  can  now  be 
found  amongst  the  natives,  who  have  been  trained  efficiently  by  the  mis 
sionaries. 

THE  LINGUISTIC  DIFFICULTY 

was  another  stone  of  stumbling  to  our  pioneer  missionaries.  When  they 
first  settled  in  Balololand,  the  language  of  the  people  by  whom  they  were 
surrounded  had  not  been  reduced  to  a  written  form.  By  persistent  study, 


PIONEERING     WORK.  83 

however,  the  intricacies  and  idioms  of  the  language  were  mastered,  an 
excellent  Grammar  prepared,  and  an  extensive  Vocabulary  compiled. 
This  feat,  involving  much  arduous  work  and  sustained  application,  some 
times  aroused  the  suspicions  of  the  natives,  who  could  not  understand 
the  eager  interest  with  which  their  words  were  noted  and  written  down. 
But  a  more  serious 

DANGER  THROUGH  NATIVE  DISTRUST 

was  occasioned  by  the  unjust  and  cruel  treatment  of  the  natives  by  State 
Officers  and  Agents  of  Trading  Companies,  after  the  formation  of  the  Congo 
Free  State.  For  a  time,  the  people  became  openly  antagonistic  to  the 
missionaries.  They  argued  that  all  white  men  were  brothers,  that  they 
all  came  from  the  same  country,  and  that  all  must  be  driven  away  or  killed. 
As  a  result,  plots  for  murder  were  concocted  and  attacks  on  the  mission 
stations  made,  but  all  to  no  effect. 

To-day,  what  a  change  is  seen  !  The  difference  between  one  white  man 
and  another  is  now  recognized,  and  the  missionaries  are  known  to  be  "  the 
only  friends  of  the  people."  The  name,  Englesa,  acts  like  magic,  and  is  a 
safe  pass-word  into  any  native  village.  The  term,  in  the  estimation  of  the 
Upper  Congo  peoples,  stands  for  all  that  is  noble,  just,  right  and  good. 
Armed  with  that  name  alone,  one  can  unhesitatingly  go  where  the  State 
Officer  dare  not  venture,  even  with  a  strong  escort  of  soldiers. 

More  serious  than  any  of  these  things,  however,  were  the 

CLIMATIC  DIFFICULTIES 

faced  by  the  pioneers,  and  still  endured,  in  some  measure,  by  the  workers 
of  to-day.  At  first  the  missionary  knew  that  the  climate  was  notoriously 
unhealthy,  and  that  was  about  all.  He  did  not  know  how  to  adapt  him 
self  to  his  new  environment,  and  probably,  at  times,  exposed  himself 
unnecessarily.  He  was  assured  that  the  malarial  miasma  never  ascended 
higher  than  six  feet,  consequently  he  built  his  bed  on  tall  posts  to  avoid 
sleeping  in  the  poisonous  atmosphere.  The  mosquito  had  not  been  sus 
pected  in  those  days  ;  innocent  creature  ! 

The  inevitable  result  followed.  The  arduous  life,  the  exposure,  the 
climate,  left  their  imprint  on  the  constitutions  of  the  devoted  workers, 
and  towards  the  close  of  1891  the  little  band  was  stricken  by  the  loss  of 
John  McKittrick,  the  beloved  leader,  only  two  years  after  he  had  conducted 
the  first  party  of  missionaries  into  the  district. 

John  McKittrick  was  the  first  of  these  brave  pioneers  to  enter  Heaven, 
but  he  was  quickly  followed  by  others  who  had  counted  the  cost  and  were 
prepared,  if  necessary,  to  sacrifice  their  lives  for  the  redemption  of  the 
Congo  people. 


PIONEERS  OF  THE  CONGO  BALOLO  MISSION. 


PIONEERING     WORK  85 

How  one  would  like  to  write  of  each  of  those  heroes,  who  fell  in  the  very 
forefront  of  the  battle,  hut  space  forbids.  Reference  must,  however, 
be  made  to  dear  Scarnell,  who,  when  alone  at  Bongandanga,  received  his 
visit  from  the  Angel  of  Death,  on  the  29th  of  October,  1892.  His  passing 
away  was  singularly  pathetic.  For  a  while  he  had  been  unavoidably  left 
alone  on  our  furthest  Station— 100  miles  distant  from  the  next  white  man. 
When  in  an  excess  of  fever  he  became  delirious,  his  native  servants  grew 
alarmed,  and  fled  to  their  village.  There  they  were  met  by  an  old  Chief, 
who  questioned  them  regarding  the  bondele.  They  informed  him  of  Scarnell' s 
peculiar  manner,  whereupon  the  old  man  led  them  back  to  the  white  man's 
hut.  The  door  was  opened,  and  they  peeped  inside  to  see  their  bondele 
on  his  knees  by  the  bedside.  But  they  would  not  disturb  him,  for  was  he 
not  talking  with  Nzakomba — GOD.  After  waiting  a  short  time  they  looked 
in  again,  but  there  was  no  change  and  they  drew  back  once  more.  After  a 
considerable  period  they  ventured  to  open  the  door  a  third  time,  and  still 
Scarnell  was  on  his  knees.  They  approached  him  and  spoke — no  answer. 
Louder  and  louder  they  called  his  name,  but  there  was  no  reply.  Then 
they  realized  that  Scarn ell's  body  was  before  them,  but  that  his  spirit  had 
returned  to  its  Maker,  Soon  afterwards,  Mr.  Ellery  arrived  from  Ikau. 
He  had  come  in  response  to  a  pencil  message  from  Scarnell  which  ran  :  — 
"  Come  quickly  ;  the  Master  has  laid  me  low  with  haematuria."  Mr. 
Ellery  afterwards  wrote  : — "  We  hurried  on  and  reached  Bongandanga 
at  three  o'clock  on  Friday  morning,  only  to  find  that  our  brother  had  passed 
into  the  Presence  of  the  King.  The  natives  had  covered  the  place  where 
they  laid  him  with  a  rudely  constructed  shelter  to  prevent  the  rain  falling 
on  '  their  white-man' — the  simple,  touching  evidence  of  the  love  which 
he  had  inspired."  It  was  a  love  which  made  a  lasting  impression  on  not 
a  few  hearts. 

SUCH     LOSSES 

test  one's  faith  to  the  utmost  and  are  hard  to  bear.  Now,  in  the 
twentieth  year  of  the  Mission,  thirty-six  members  of  our  Congo 
band  have  joined  the  company  of  those  who  are  in  the  immediate  Presence 
of  their  LORD.  In  1896,  our  "  black  year,"  no  fewer  than  seven  of  our 
beloved  fellow-workers  were  called  to  the  Higher  Service,  and  this  high  rate 
of  mortality  has  not  been  confined  to  the  Congo  Balolo  Mission,  the  other 
Societies  have  suffered  proportionately.  It  is  the  price  which  must  be  paid 
for  the  salvation  of  Congoland. 

Nevertheless,  in  spite  of  these  things,  when  we  note  what  has  been 
accomplished,  we  are  able  to  say,  "  Thanks  be  unto  GOD,  Who  giveth  us  the 
victory."  Even  before  being  summoned  to  his  eternal  rest,  John  McKittrick 


PIONEERING     WORK.  87 

had  been  privileged  to  see  some  first  fruits  gathered  in  at  Bonginda.  Dr. 
Harry  Guinness,  who  was  on  the  Congo  at  the  time,  wrote  : —  '  Tears  of 
joy  and  sorrow  have  mingled  lately  as  we  stood  on  two  consecutive  days 
by  the  grave  of  John  McKittrick,  and  at  the  baptism  of  the  first  converts 
from  Balololand.  It  is  sadly  strange,  but  true,  that  dear  McKittrick  has 
gone  to  his  eternal  reward.  He  has  won  the  martyr's  crown.  We  buried 
him  close  by  his  house,  and  close  to  the  chapel  in  which  he  had  so  often  told 
out  the  Old,  Old  Story  ;  close  also  to  the  road  where  passers-by  must  pause 
and  listen  to  the  voice  of  one  who,  being  dead,  will  yet  speak  for  many 
years  to  come.  And  there  are  beautiful  flowers  to  deck  his  tomb — flowers 
of  young  hearts  open  to  our  JESUS — young  lives  given  to  Him.  We  could 
not  but  rejoice  as  we  baptized  the  first  five  converts,  and  wept  over  the 
twenty-five  others  awaiting  immersion,  to  think  of  the  joy  in  the  presence 
of  GOD,  the  joy  in  which  our  departed  brother  must  surely  share." 

Again  and  again,  as  the  years  have  passed,  that  joy  has  been  repeated, 
and  the  LORD  has  graciously  blessed  the  labours  of  His  servants  in  Congo- 
land,  until  to-day  there  is  a  Church  on  each  of  our  six  stations.  In  some 
instances,  these  small  communities  have  been  disbanded  and  reformed, 
in  order  that  those  constituting  the  membership  might  realize  that  the 
HOLY  SPIRIT  cannot  dwell  with  a  disobedient  church  ;  but  in  spite  of  many 
disappointments  and  trials,  the  Congo  Christians  in  whom  our  missionaries 
now  rejoice  testify  to  the  power  of  CHRIST  to  save  to  the  uttermost,  and  to 
use  those  who  give  themselves  to  Him.  At  Lolanga,  in  particular,  where 
there  are  over  fifty  in  fellowship,  the  Church  is  distinguished  for  the  zeal 
with  which  it  engages  in 

EVANGELISTIC  WORK. 

Our  missionaries  believe  in  preaching — even  though  to  the  on-looker 
it  often  seems  foolishness.  They  find  no  better  method  of  disseminating  the 
Message  entrusted  to  them.  Seven  or  eight  preaching  services  a  week  is 
the  usual  number,  and  as  a  rule  they  are  wonderfully  well  attended. 

Not  only  are  meetings  conducted  on  the  stations  and  in  the  villages 
around,  but  as  opportunity  offers,  the  missionaries  make  itinerating  tours 
in  the  different  districts,  and  thus  scatter  the  good  seed  broadcast  throughout 
the  land.  In  this  work  native  evangelists  are  invaluable,  for  whilst  the 
white-man  can  only  occasionally  visit  these  out-lying  towns,  native  evan 
gelists  are  sent  out  regularly  for  a  period  of  from  one  to  four  months,  and 
while  thus  engaged  are  supported  by  the  native  Church. 

On  the  stations,  special  classes  are  regularly  held  at  which  these  native 
workers  are  instructed  in  the  rudiments  of  Christianity.  Some  of  the 
subjects  taught  are  :  The  Fall — showing  the  helplessness,  depravity  and 


88 


"NOT     UNTO     US.' 


enmity  of  man  ;  the  Atonement ;  Justification  ;  Regeneration  ;  Faith. 
We  look  forward  to  the  day  when  the  evangelization  of  the  Congo  shall  be 
achieved  through  the  efforts  of  native  workers  who  can  penetrate  into 
regions  where  it  is  impossible  for  the  white  man  to  live,  and  with  that  end 
in  view  we  rejoice  in  the 

TRANSLATION  WORK 

already  accomplished  by  members  of  our  Mission.  Two  of  the  languages 
spoken  by  the  people — Lomongo  and  Ileko— have  been  conquered,  school 
books,  primers,  etc.,  been  prepared,  and  even  much  more  than  that  accom 
plished,  for  our  dear  friends,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ruskin,  assisted  by  their  colleagues, 
have  had  the  joy  of  translating  the  whole  of  the  New  Testament  into 
Lomongo.  The  task  they  set  themselves  was  surrounded  with  almost 
insuperable  difficulties,  but  by  the  help  of  the  HOLY  SPIRIT  it  has  been  con 
summated.  Although  physically  weak,  Mrs.  Ruskin  has  plodded  on 
day  after  day  with  this  labour  of  love,  and  now  she  rejoices  that  the  natives 


THE  PRINTING  PRESS  UPON  WHICH  THE  NEW  TESTAMENT  is  BEING  PRINTED  AT  BONGANDANGA. 


r 

\ 


A  CORNER  OF  THE  PRINTING  HOUSE  AT  BONGANDANGA. 

will  soon  possess  copies  of  the  Word  for  their  own  use.  This  is  the  trans 
lator's  compensation  and  one  which  also  sustains  those  who  work  in  our 
PRINTING  DEPARTMENT. 

Four  years  ago,  a  capital  printing  press  was  sent  out  and  put  together 
at  our  Bongandanga  station.  Our  valued  brother,  Mr.  Horace  Gamman, 
who  is  in  charge  of  this  department,  has  trained  natives  to  do  the  compo 
sition,  proof-reading,  machining  and  book-binding,  and  does  not  hesitate 
to  say  that  the  work  of  his  lads  will  compare  most  favourably  with  that 
of  any  boys  of  the  same  age  in  England.  In  fact,  excellent  progress  has 
been  made  in  this  branch  of  the  work,  and  not  only  is  the  New  Testament 
being  printed  by  our  native  staff,  but  a  number  of  school-books,  primers, 
school-cards  and  calico  sheets  have  been  printed  during  the  past  year, 
both  for  our  own  Mission  and  for  sister-missions  on  the  Congo.  Nor  must 
we  forget  that  the  "  Congo  Balolo  Mission  Record,"  that  most  interesting 
quarterly  magazine,  comes  to  us  from  Bongandanga,  and  is  the  work  of  our 
missionaries  and  their  native  helpers  from  cover  to  cover. 

The  New  Testament  would  be  of  little  value  to  the  people  if  they  did 


' 


OUR  NATIVE  PRINTERS  AT  BONGANDANGA. 

not  possess  the  ability  to  read  it,  and  for  that  reason  we  must  not  forget 
that  from  the  first  days  of  the  Mission, 

SCHOOL  WORK 

has  played  a  most  prominent  part  in  the  daily  routine  of  operations.  It  is 
impossible  to  tabulate  the  results  of  this  branch  of  mission  work,  or  to  indi 
cate  the  number  of  scholars  who  have  passed  through  our  various  schools,  but 
it  is  no  exaggeration  to  say  that  they  amount  to  several  thousands.  All  have 
been  taught  at  least  to  read  and  write,  and  during  the  time  spent  on  the 
Mission  Station  they  were  constantly  under  Christian  influence,  and  were 
daily  receiving  religious  instruction.  Many  of  these  young  folk  have  come 
to  us  from  distant  villages,  and,  after  having  mastered  the  art  of  reading, 
have  returned  to  their  homes,  carrying  with  them  Scripture  portions, 
which  they  proudly  read  to  their  relatives  and  friends.  In  this  way  they 
have  become,  although  unintentionally,  missionaries  to  their  own  people. 
The  entrance  of  GOD'S  Word  giveth  light  and  life,  and  we  are  convinced  that 
the  HOLY  SPIRIT  can  apply  the  Word  to  the  hearts  of  those  who  have 
listened  to  it  in  this  way,  and  that  He  is  able  to  lead  them  out  of  the 
densest  heathen  darkness  into  the  light  and  liberty  of  the  Gospel 


PIONEERING     WORK.  gi 

In  Congoland,  however,  as  in  other  lands,  the  hearts  of  the  women  must 
be  touched  if  the  lives  of  the  children  are  to  be  radically  changed.  Yet, 
how  difficult  is  that  task. 

The  lot  of  the  Central  African  woman  is  a  particularly  hard  one.  She 
is  looked  upon  as  man's  slave,  and  treated  accordingly,  with  the  result  that 
her  life  is  spent  in  a  degradation  too  dark  to  be  described.  In  order  to  get 
into  closer  touch  with  these  women  our  lady  missionaries  have  laboured  for 
years,  and  by  slow  degrees  the  result  of  their  influence  is  beginning  to  tell. 
Now  they  are  able  to  form  sewing  and  other  classes  amongst  them.  True, 
the  women  do  not  wear  garments  as  a  rule,  but  a  desire  to  be  clothed  in 
dicates  an  interest  in  much  deeper  things.  At  one  of  our  stations  there 
are  more  than  100  names  on  the  roll  of  such  a  class.  Of  course,  the 
primary  object  of  these  meetings  is  to  bring 

THE    WOMEN 

under  the  sound  of  the  Gospel,  and  through  them  several  have  been  led  to 
the  SAVIOUR. 

These  women  must  be  brought  into  the  Kingdom  one  by  one,  and  with 
infinite  patience  and  pains.  One  of  our  missionaries  recently  wrote  of 
Ekila,  of  Baringa,  who  journeys  three  miles  every  Sunday  to  hear  the  Gospel 
of  JESUS  CHRIST.  "  A  number  of  men  in  her  town  called  her  to  them, 
and  said,  '  You  do  not  do  as  you  used  to  do,  now  you  have  gone  to  hear  the 
white-man's  teaching.  Give  it  up.'  She  answered,  '  I  cannot,  and  I  will  not 
give  it  up.'  Then  they  told  her  that  they  would  do  to  her  as  they  had  done  to 
her  brother.  I  asked  another  person  what  had  been  done  to  her  brother, 
and  I  was  told  that  they  had  disembowelled  him.  But  she  said,  '  I  cannot 
and  I  will  not  give  it  up.  There  I  have  found  eternal  life.  There  I  have 
heard  of  the  love  of  GOD,  and  there  I  have  heard  of  Heaven,  and  because  of 
that,  if  you  will  kill  me  you  must,  but  I  will  not  give  up  attending  the 
white-man's  teaching,  for  I  would  lose  my  life  if  I  did.'  " 

She  would  lose  her  life.  The  SAVIOUR  came  that  these  dark  Central 
African  peoples  might  have  life  and  for  that  reason  we  are  at  work  amongst 
them  to-day.  For  Him  and  for  them  our  Mission  exists,  and  we  are  called 
to  enter  into  the  task  begun  by  the  pioneers.  To  them  came  the  labour  of 
founding  our  stations  one  by  one,  at  Bonginda,  Lolanga,  Ikau,  Bongandanga 
and  Baringa  on  the  Upper  River,  and  at  Leopoldville,  near  Matadi,  that  we 
might  have  an  efficient  business  base  ;  to  them  fell  the  task  of  learning 
to  navigate  the  great  waterway  upon  which  our  steamers,  the  "Pioneer"  and 
the  "  Livingstone"  travel  with  the  Good  News  ;  to  them  belongs  the  glory 
of  having  led  the  way,  but  to  us  comes  the  call  to  stand  by  the  forty-two 
men  and  women  who  now  represent  them,  and  who  are  in  sore  need  of  rein 
forcements  and  fresh  strength.  WILLIAM  WILKES. 


A  CONGO  WOMAN  AND  HER  CHILD. 


In  the 
Midst  of  Sleeping  Sickness. 

1.      ITS    DIRE    RESULTS. 

ET  me  put  before  you,  however  imperfectly,  as  best   I  can,  four 
distinctive  pictures  I  have  looked  at  since    coming    out    here. 
The  first  was  on  my  way  up  river,  when  the  steamer  had  arrived 
at  one  of  the  stations  and  we  all  went  ashore.     Those  of  us  who 
had  come  for  the  first  time  were  very  anxious  to  see  all  round, 
consequently  it  was  difficult  to  keep  us  at  rest,  and  we  went  wandering 
over  the  station. 

On  one  of  the  paths  as  we  walked  along,  a  young  man,  tall,  well-built, 
strong  and  intelligent  looking,  met  us,  joining  himself  to  our  party  and 
interrupting  the  conversation.  As  a  stranger,  not  knowing  the  language, 
I  could  not  understand  why  he  should  interrupt,  nor  yet  what  he  was  saying 
as  we  walked  along.  It  did  seem  very  strange,  though,  that  the  missionary 
with  us  paid  no  attention.  After  a  while,  the  young  man  left,  and  in  answer 
to  our  surprise,  an  explanation  was  given.  A  short  time  before  the  young 
fellow  had  been  very  bright  and  intelligent,  but  a  dreaded  sickness  came. 
Just  when  life  should  have  been  sweetest  he  had  gradually  lost  his  reason, 
the  gift  of  GOD  which  makes  life  a  lovely  and  desirable  thing ;  and  when  I 
saw  him  he  was  a  wandering  idiot. 

As  you  read  you  ask  :   What  is  the  explanation  ?     Sleeping  sickness. 
I  saw  the  second  picture  a  fortnight  later. 

I  had  arrived  at  Ikau  when  my  attention  was  drawn  to  an  exceptionally 
bright-looking  boy,  about  nine  to  ten  years  of  age.  Enquiries  elicited  the 
fact  that  he  was  one  of  the  cleverest  boys  in  school  just  before  I  had  come 
up  river.  He  had  been  put  on  as  a  teacher  and  did  his  work  exceedingly 
well.  Also,  he  had,  for  a  native,  an  exceptionally  good  knowledge  of  Bible 
truth,  and  when  accepted  as  a  member  of  the  Church,  he  was  able  to  take 
his  place  and  keep  it  amongst  others  many  years  older,  whilst  in  the 
Christian  Endeavour  meetings,  his  addresses  were  amongst  the  best. 

After  some  time,  just  sufficient  to  make  the  missionaries  believe  that 
here  was  a  lad  GOD  had  called  to  the  great  work  of  proclaiming  the  Truth 


NKEMA, 


as  it  is  in  JESUS  CHRIST  to  his  fellows, 
it  was  seen  that  the  clear  young  mind 
was  yielding  to  some  unseen,  destructive 
force.  At  school,  it  was  noticed  that  in 
his  arithmetic,  the  work  he  liked  best,  he 
could  scarcely  ever  get  the  right  answer. 
He  struggled  as  he  had  never  needed  to 
do  before,  but  all  to  no  purpose.  Then 
at  nights  he  could  not  sleep  through  having 
dreams,  which  shattered  the  whole  of  the 
nervous  system.  In  the  middle  of  the 

WHO  HAS  i  ALLEN  A  VICTIM  TO  SLEEPING  night,  he  would  come  running  to  one  of  the 
SICKNESS.  .     .          .  ... 

missionaries,  telling  a  pitiful  story  of  some 

power  that  was  going  to  do  him  grievous  harm. 

After  that  had  continued  for  some  time  he  was  possessed  by  a  fear  that 
his  best  friend  wanted  to  hurt  him.  The  friend  was  a  lady,  tender  as  only 
a  lady  can  be,  and  had  done  her  very  utmost  to  save  him  from  the  clutches 
of  the  desperate  malady  binding  him.  Avoiding  his  friend,  he  went  and 
sat  down  in  town,  and  when  he  did  visit  the  station  it  was  to  go  to  the  home 
of  another  missionary. 

By  this  time  the  boy's  eyes  had  got  the  fixed  stare  of  one  whose 
reason  has  been  dethroned. 

You  ask  what  will  happen  to  the  youth.  He  may  either  go  wildly 
mad,  or  lie  down  and  sleep  on  till  death  claims  him.  So  far  there  is  no 
hope  for  him.  The  door  into  the  mansion  which  holds  the  cure,  though 
it  has  been  besieged  by  the  whole  of  the  medical  profession  as  represented 
by  specialists,  still  remains  closed. 

Again  you  ask  what  is  wrong  ?     Sleeping  sickness. 

A  third  picture. 

From  the  time  of  my  arrival  at  Ikau  I  heard  a  great  deal  about  a  young 
man  called  Nkema. 

The  person  who  owned  the  name  was  some  years  ago  one  of  the  brightest 
of  the  Christians  at  Bonginda,  and  one  of  the  best  native  evangelists  in 
our  C.B.M.  work.  As  a  bright,  intelligent  and  intellectual  looking  young 
man,  Mongo  speaking,  he  came  to  Bonginda.  He  heard  the  Gospel  message. 
The  Truth  laid  hold  on  the  young  life,  and  with  a  clear  mind  he  soon  made 
progress  in  the  knowledge  of  Christian  truth.  Chosen  to  be  an  evangelist, 
and  having  the  necessary  gifts  for  such  work,  he  and  his  message  soon  found 
an  entrance  into  the  hearts  of  the  people,  around  the  district.  His  was 
the  life  of  a  strong  man.  The  truth  lived  and  sparkled  in  him,  and  JESUS 
was  honoured  in  the  advance  of  His  Kingdom. 


IN  THE  MIDST  OF  SLEEPING  SICKNESS 


95 


But  signs  of  a  change  began  to  manifest  themselves  in  Nkema.  He  would 
sometimes  do  the  most  irrational  things.  After  some  time  he  became 
a  danger  to  the  whole  community.  He  set  fire  to  some  houses  and  threatened 
the  lives  of  some  who  had  been  his  best  friends.  At  last  it  was  found 
impossible  to  risk  the  lives  of  missionaries  and  others  by  his  presence  on 
the  station,  and  it  was  decided  that  he  was  to  be  taken  to  his  town. 

To  bind  him  it  took  eight  strong  men,  and  even  these  had  as  much  as 
they  could  do.  He  was  taken  in  a  canoe  to  Ikau,  the  nearest  river  town 
to  his  own,  which  was  inland,  and  from  thence  he  was  taken  bound,  a 
short  time  before  I  arrived,  to  his  friends. 

About  four  weeks  after  my  arrival  at  Ikau,  when  Mr.  Jeffrey  was  paying 
the  men  employed  on  the  station,  someone  called  out,  "  Xkema  has  come  !  " 
I,  accompanying  Mr.  Jeffrey,  went  to  see  the  visitor.  The  sight  was  most 
pitiful.  The  young  man  I  have  already  done  my  best  to  describe, 
I  now  saw  for  the  first  time,  and  was  much  attracted  towards  him. 
Though  I  did  not  know  what  he  was  saying,  the  orator  in  the  man  spoke 
to  me,  for  madman  as  he  was,  he  had  a  magnetic  power  that  drew  one  to  him. 

After  we  had  left  Nkema  I  was  told  that  the  short  time  had  wrought 
a  great  change  in  him.  His  physical  strength  was  very  much  less,  while 
he  spoke  more  wildly  than  ever  before. 

Three  weeks  ago  I  again  saw  him  as  I  was  on  my  way  here,  and  the 
change  was  most  perceptible. 

He  now  claims  to  be  GOD,  into  whom  JESUS  CHRIST  has  become  merged, 
and  all  that  is  on  earth  and  all  in  the  heavens  belongs  to  him. 

You  wonder  can  it  be  ? — yes — it  is  sleeping  sickness. 

The  fourth  and  last  picture  I  had  only 
one  look  at  myself.  A  few  years  ago,  at 
Bongandanga,  there  was  a  young  man 
who,  like  many  others,  I  suppose,  all  the 
world  over,  was  fond  of  making  trouble. 
Like  all  such  he  had  to  pay  in  some  little 
measure  for  the  evil  of  his  ways.  After 
some  time  the  Truth  laid  hold  on  him,  and 
after  the  usual  time  of  preparation  he  was 
admitted  to  church  membership.  Like 
most  people  who  have  a  love  for  mischief, 
he  had  a  comparatively  clever  mind.  As 
a  carpenter  he  gave  satisfaction,  and 
some  of  his  work  which  I  have  seen  could 
be  placed  readily  alongside  the  work  of 


BONGOLI,  ANOTHER  EVANGELIST  WHO  HAS  JUST 
DIED  OF  SLEEPING  SICKNESS. 


g6  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

the  full  trades'  union  carpenter.     But  he  began  to  sleep  during  working 
hours,  and  soon  became  so  bad  that  he  could  not  continue  as  a  workman. 

He  went  to  his  town,  and  there  the  malady  speedily  increased  upon  him. 
In  his  corner  of  the  hut  he  lay  and  slept  morning,  noon  and  night.  I  saw 
him  one  afternoon  when  I  went  with  Mr.  Gamman  to  pay  him  a  visit. 

I  looked  into  the  hut  expecting  to  see  a  man — GOD  of  mercy,  what  was 
it  ?  A  form — yes,  but  nothing  more.  The  bones  showed  clearly  all 
over.  It  might  have  been  taken  for  a  doctor's  skeleton  covered  with  skin. 
I  might  have  asked,  and  with  reason,  "  Can  these  bones  live  ?  "  Yes, 
there  was  life,  but  nothing  else — scarcely  a  perceptible  movement  to  in 
dicate  existence.  A  week  later  that  little  departed. 

Here  is  the  one  picture  that  justifies  the  name  of  that  dread  disease  now 
tearing  a  path  through  Africa's  bleeding  heart. 

W.  McViE. 


DYING  OF  SLEEPING  SICKNESS. 


IN     THE     MIDST     OF     SLEEPING     SICKNESS  97 

2.    CAN    WE    HELP? 

ST  was  Sunday  afternoon,  the  second  Sunday  after  our  arrival 
at  Baringa.  The  men,  Messrs.  Skerritt,  Cartwright  and  Stannard 
were  away  in  a  far-distant  town  conducting  an  open-air  meeting. 
A  large  party  of  our  people  accompanied  them.  Consequently 
Baringa  seemed  almost  deserted.  I  was  sitting  under  the  verandah 
of  my  house,  enjoying  the  quiet  hush  of  GOD'S  day  of  rest  and  awaiting 
the  return  of  the  evangelistic  party,  when  I  was  surprised  to  see  Mr.  Cart- 
wright  walking  rapidly  down  the  centre  path  of  the  Mission  Station,  in  the 
opposite  direction  to  his  own  house.  Now  I  knew  that  he  must  have  only 
just  returned  from  that  long  walk  and  could  not  as  yet  have  had  his  evening 
meal.  So  I  called  to  him  as  he  was  passing,  "  Whither  away  so  fast  ?  " 
Whereupon  he  came  towards  me  and  said,  "I'm  going  to  the  sleeping  sickness 
shed.  I  hear  a  man  has  died  there.  If  so,  we  must  bury  him  to-night." 

I  asked  if  I  might  be  allowed  to  go  with  him.  He  hesitated  for  a  moment, 
and  then  said  reluctantly,  "  Well,  you  may  if  you  wish,  but  it  is  hardly  a 
fit  place  for  a  woman."  Darkness  was  falling  fast  and  there  was  no  time  to 
argue  the  point,  so  we  started. 

Leaving  the  Mission  Station  behind,  and  passing  through  the  native 
Christians'  quarters,  we  struck  off  to  the  left.  At  first  there  was  no  visible 
path,  but  we  plunged  through  long  grass  for  a  little  distance  until  we  came 
upon  one — very  narrow  and  winding  through  what  seemed  to  me  a  perfect 
forest  of  palms,  plantain,  and  rubber  trees.  We  went  in  single  file,  Mr. 
Cartwright  leading  the  way. 

After  walking  perhaps  a  quarter  of  a  mile,  the  path  ended  abruptly  in  a 
small  clearing.  In  its  centre  stood  a  native  grass  hut,  and  inside  were  six 
men  and  boys  sitting  around  a  dim  wood  fire.  Men  and  boys  did  I  call 
them  ?  Breathing  skin  and  bone  would  better  describe  them.  Never 
during  my  hospital  experience  have  I  seen  such  extreme  emaciation.  Their 
poor  limbs  were  so  thin  that  the  elbows  and  knees  stuck  out  like  great 
knobs,  and  the  head  seemed  too  heavy  for  the  neck  to  support.  It  was 
a  sight  too  pitiful  for  words. 

By  this  time  our  eyes  had  grown  accustomed  to  the  darkness,  and  we  looked 
around  to  find  the  body  of  the  poor  fellow  whose  suffering  as  we  thought 
had  come  to  an  end.  But  we  found  him  outside  the  hut,  still  gasping  in  the 
throes  of  death,  lying  face  downward  on  a  heap  of  refuse  :  he  had  been  thrown 
out  by  his  fellow-sufferers  as  dead. 

As  Mr.  Cartwright  gently  lifted  him  back  into  the  shed  again  and  placed 
him  near  the  fire,  the  poor  man  opened  his  eyes  to  look  once  more  into  the 


q8  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

only  face  that  held  pity  for  him.  Had  he  been  left  to  his  own  people, 
he  would  have  long  since  been  thrown  into  the  bush  to  die.  He  had  become 
an  object  of  fear  and  abhorrence  in  life,  of  disgust  and  loathing  in  death, 
receiving  no  care  or  attention  of  any  kind  beyond  what  we  were  able  to  give 
from  the  Mission  Station.  For  no  one  visits  these  sufferers.  The  natives 
stand  in  fear  and  trembling  of  this  terrible  disease,  and  it  is  only  with  the 
greatest  difficulty  that  we  are  able  to  persuade  a  native  Christian  to  carry 
them  food  twice  a  week. 

A  few  days  later,  I  saw  Mr.  Skerritt  and  Mr.  Cartwright  pass  my  house 
carrying  spades  on  their  shoulders,  and  I  knew  that  at  last  the  troubled 
spirit  had  fled  and  the  poor  suffering  body  was  at  rest.  I  followed  slowly, 
and  as  I  passed  the  houses  of  the  native  Christians  the  men  and  women 
stood  at  their  doors  and  covered  their  mouths  with  amazement  because 
the  white  lady  was  not  afraid  of  the  "  sleep-sickness." 

As  I  neared  the  spot  I  heard  the  spades  digging  into  the  sod,  and  I  watched 
the  body,  wrapped  in  large  plantain  leaves,  reverently  lowered  into  the 
grave,  and  the  earth  placed  upon  it.  I  wondered,  if  at  the  last  great  day, 
the  soul  of  this  poor  heathen  would  rise  up  in  judgment  against  us.  Will 
he  be  cast  out  of  Heaven  because  he  has  never  heard  of  a  SAVIOUR  ?  Or 
shall  we  be  refused  admission  for  not  having  told  him  ?  No  beautiful 
words — "  I  am  the  Resurrection  and  the  Life,"  "  In  sure  and  certain  hope 
of  the  Resurrection."  No,  he  is  only  a  heathen  !  Hide  him  from  the  sight 
of  man  and  leave  him,  and  yet — to  provide  salvation  for  such  as  these 
our  SAVIOUR  suffered  the  agony  of  Gethsemane  and  the  death  of  the  Cross. 

Dear  brothers  and  sisters  in  the  homeland,  do  we  not  often  sing  : 
"  In  the  heart  of  Jesus,  there  is  love  for  you, 
Love  so  strong  and  tender,  love  so  deep  and  true." 

Then  what  does  the  heart  of  our  SAVIOUR  suffer  when  He  looks  down 
from  His  Heaven  upon  such  a  scene  as  this  ?  Does  He  see  some  sitting 
in  comfortable  ease  at  home  who  should  be  helping  us  on  the  field  ?  I 
implore  you  to  commune  with  GOD  on  the  matter,  and  if  He  says  "  Go  !  " 
then  come  over  and  help  us  !  If  not,  then  give  willingly  to  Him  of  your 
substance,  to  enable  us  to  do  more  for  the  sufferers  who  remain. 

KATE  M.  BUTLER. 


The  Congo  of  To~Morrow. 


O\V  im})ossible  it  is  to  consider  the  future  of  Congoland  without 
remembering  the  hindrances  to  its  progress  !  What  is  to  be 
done  with  regard  to  that  terrible  scourge,  sleeping  sickness, 
which,  originally  endemic  in  the  cataract  region  of  the  Congo, 
has  now  invaded  with  deadly  grip  the  population  of  the  Upper  River  ? 
The  determination  of  its  cause  and  treatment  has  become  a  problem  of  urgent 
international  importance,  and  brilliant  observers  have  devoted  themselves  to 
its  elucidation.  That  the  disease  is  spread  by  a  variety  of  tsetse  fly  is 
proved  beyond  a  doubt,  but  the  preventive  measures  devised  for  application 
in  Uganda  are  practically  valueless  for  the  Congo !  There  the  wide  dis 
tribution  of  water-ways  and  the  almost  universal  presence  of  the  blood 
thirsty  tsetse  makes  it  most  difficult  to  prevent  the  spread  of  the  disease. 

The  regulations  recently  promulgated  by  'the  French  Government  are 
most  interesting.  They  recommend  (1)  That  the  fly  should  be  destroyed 
by  cutting  down  or  burning  the  brushwood  for  about  500  metres  from  the 
water,  and  by  depriving  the  insect  of  the  blood  of  vertebrates,  without 
which  it  cannot  live  for  more  than  three  days.  (2)  That  Europeans 
should  make  their  camps  and  houses  at  a  distance  from  rivers  and 
streams,  and  separate  from  those  of  the  natives,  who  should  be  warned  to 
draw  their  supplies  of  water  only  at  night,  when  the  fly  is  inactive  ;  and 
that  the  houses  should  be  closed  with  wire  gratings.  (3)  That  infected 
persons  should  be  isolated  and  treated  with  injections  of  atoxyl,  a 
preparation  of  arsenic,  which  causes  the  disappearance  of  the  parasites 
from  the  blood,  at  least  for  a  time.  These  regulations,  if  carried  out, 
might  effect  a  change  for  the  better,  and  as  soon  as  the  future  adminis 
tration  of  the  Congo  is  settled,  concerted  action  might  be  taken  by  the 
various  missions,  perhaps  in  association  with  the  Government,  in  order  to 
carry  out  some  such  scheme. 

In  any  case  our  missionaries  must  deal  with  the  problem  as  they  find  it, 
alleviating  the  miseries  of  the  sick,  and  caring  as  far  as  possible  for  the  dying. 
Nurse  Butler's  story  is  terribly  sad,  and  the  word-pictures  of  Mr.  McVie 
make  our  hearts  ache  for  these  helpless  folk,  doomed,  as  it  seems,  apart  from 
divine  intervention,  to  live  under  the  Damocles  sword  of  this  dread  disease. 


loo  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

And  what  of 

CONGO    MALADMINISTRATION  ? 

These  pages  do  not  afford  space  to  answer  the  question,  and  we  must 
refer  our  readers  to  an  illustrated  pamphlet  published  early  in  the  year,* 
which  concisely  describes  the  appalling  results  of  King  Leopold's  rubber 
regime. 

As  these  lines  are  written,  the  future  relation  of  Belgium  to  the  Congo 
is  under  lively  discussion,  and  the  issue  of  these  deliberations  is  difficult 
to  gauge.  The  democratic  section  of  the  Belgian  Chamber  is  almost 
to  a  man  averse  to  any  colonial  policy  at  all,  and  therefore  to  the  adoption 
of  the  Congo.  The  Catholic  and  Conservative  sections  are  strongly  in  favour 
of  annexation,  and  accept,  with  few  dissentients,  the  Treaty  of  Cession 
and  Administration  conceded  by  King  Leopold,  under  which  a  continuation 
of  existing  ills  is  inevitable.  These  parties  may  be  regarded  as  "  annexa- 
tionists  at  no  price,"  and  "  annexationists  at  any  price,"  but  there  is  an 
increasing  section  of  the  Chamber,  represented  by  many  Liberals,  who 
accept  the  principle  of  annexation,  but  not  on  the  lines  indicated  by  the 
existing  Bill.  Like  the  gifted  Socialist  leader,  M.  Vandervelde,  who  is 
arranging  personally  to  visit  the  Congo  this  summer,  they  believe  that 
the  only  hope  for  the  native,  lies  not  in  the  inefficiency  of  combined 
European  control,  as  illustrated  in  Morocco,  or  Macedonia,  but  in  a  sincere 
and  earnest  Belgian  administration,  founded  on  a  reversal  of  the  predatory 
policy  hitherto  pursued  in  relation  to  the  natives.  Some  members  of  this 
party  believe  in  restoring  the  native  rights  in  land  and  labour,  and  hold 
that  the  Belgian  Government  is  rich  enough  to  pay  for  the  glory  of  doing 
right  by  the  native  population.  Undoubtedly,  this  ideal  is  a  noble  one, 
but  it  has  the  disadvantage  of  being  costly  to  Belgium,  and  is  not  therefore 
likely  to  appeal  to  either  of  the  extreme  parties  in  the  Chamber,  and  perhaps 
to  comparatively  few  even  of  the  Liberal  party  itself. 

Whatever  solution  to  the  general  question  the  future  may  hold  in  store, 
one  thing  seems  tolerably  clear,  and  that  is  that  existing  disabilities  imposed 
upon  Protestant  missionary  effort  are  destined  to  be  speedily  removed  under 
the  combined  pressure  of  Great  Britain  and  the  United  States.  It  is  common 
knowledge  that  for  many  years  now  Treaty  guarantees  have  been  flagrantly 
violated  by  the  refusal  to  permit  any  Protestant  missionary  society  to 
acquire  a  new  station  !  This  attitude  cannot  be  maintained  much  longer, 
and  whilst  its  alteration  will  only  touch  the  native  problem  indirectly, 
it  will  open  the  door  to  Missionary  Extension,  with  all  that  the  latter  brings 
with  it  of  publicity  and  protection. 

*  The  Congo  Crisis,  by  Dr.  Harry  Guinness.  Price  6d.,  post  free  8d.  R.B.M.U., 
Publication  Department,  Harley  House,  Bow,  E. 


loa  "  NOT     UNTO     US." 

As  yet,  missionary  effort  has  only  touched  the  fringe  of  Upper  Congo 
need.  In  the  vast  territory,  for  instance,  in  which  the  Congo  Balolo 
Mission  is  at  work,  we  have  only  been  permitted  to  occupy  a  com 
paratively  restricted  area.  The  Lomami  River,  navigable  for  seven 
hundred  miles  beyond  its  junction  with  the  Congo,  remains  entirely 
unreached.  So  far  as  we  are  informed,  its  large  population  speaks 
the  Lomongo  language  with  which  our  missionaries  are  familiar, 
but  hitherto  they  have  only  known  the  iron  oppression  of  the  rubber 
tyranny,  and  the  only  news  from  the  Lomami,  which  has  leaked  into 
the  press  now  and  again,  has  been  of  native  rebellions,  lighting,  and  yet 
more  fighting !  As  to  the  Juapa,  Bosira,  Momboyo,  and  other  vast 
affluents  of  the  Ruki  system  of  rivers,  what  of  their  peoples  ?  These  are 
all  included  in  the  horse-shoe  bend  of  the  Congo,  in  the  territory  which  the 
Congo  Balolo  Mission  ought  to  reach.  It  will  be  within  the  recollec 
tion  of  some  that  our  Mission  commenced  to  establish  a  station  at  Moniaca 
(Bonyeka),  in  the  very  heart  of  this  important  region,  only  to  be  turned  off 
by  the  Congo  Government,  with  indignity,  danger  to  the  lives  of  the  mis 
sionaries,  and  with  loss  of  property  to  the  extent  of  £700.  When  we  return, 
to  Moniaca,  in  the  providence  of  GOD, 

WHAT   SHALL    WE   FIND  ? 

What  of  its  interested  crowds  ?  The  vast  amount  of  rubber  which  has 
been  derived  from  this  part  of  the  Congo  tells  its  own  story  of  what  must 
have  taken  place  where  missionaries  have  been  forbidden  to  enter.  And 
when  the  door  swings  back,  probably  in  this  very  year,  1908,  what  shall  we 
do  for  these  oppressed  peoples  who  must  be  eagerly  awaiting  our  advent  ? 

And  what  of  the  Ikelemba,  whose  lower  reaches  only  we  have  visited  ; 
and  of  the  Upper  Lopori  and  Maringa,  far  beyond  existing  missionary  stations 
where  our  brethren  have  not  hitherto  been  permitted  to  penetrate,  but  in 
whose  distant  homes  sorrow  and  anguish  alone  have  characterized  the  arrival 
of  the  white  man  ?  By  and  by  we  shall  be  able  to  answer  the  question, 
"  Watchman,  what  of  the  night  ?  "  How  long  will  it  be  ere  we  can  say, 
"  The  morning  cometh  / "  Surely  in  the  providence  of  GOD,  some  com 
mensurate  blessing  must  yet  fall  upon  the  Congo,  in  which  we  shall  be  able  to 
trace  the  goings  of  the  LORD,  Who  cause th  even  the  wrath  of  man  to  praise  Him. 

But  if  our  Mission  is  to  respond  to  the  immense  possibilities  and  responsi 
bilities  which  will  soon  be  ours,  it  will  mean  more  prayer,  more  men  and 
women,  and  more  money  too.  Thank  GOD,  we  have  a  business  base  adequate 
to  any  extension.  Our  steamers  are  sufficient  to  enable  us  to  reach  all  these 
rivers.  Experience  has  taught  us,  through  many  sorrows,  how  and  where 
to  build  ;  and  the  knowledge  we  possess  of  the  varied  languages  spoken 


MAKING  PALM  OIL  AT  BARINGA. 

in  this  vast  area  would  enable  us  to  reach  effectively  by  European  and 
native  help,  the  people  that  yet  lie  in  the  regions  beyond  us.  But  the 
great  pre-requisite  which  we  ought  not  to  postpone  for  a  single  day  is  intelligent 
and  definite  prayer,  If  our  friends  study  the  map,  and  realize  somewhat  the 
meaning  of  these  great  rivers,  which  with  their  numerous  tributaries, 
one  tithe  of  which  are  not  marked,  open  up  this  virgin  field,  they  will 
begin  to  see  the  importance  of  such  prayer. 

The  fact  that  sleeping  sickness  and  slavery  have  ravaged  these  regions  ; 
and  that  suffering  unspeakable  has  been  meted  out  to  the  helpless  people, 
ought  to  make  us  all  the  more  eager  to  give  them  the  balm  of  the  Gospel. 
Though  depopulation  has  characterized  the  rubber  regime,  yet 
on  the  rivers  described  there  are  hundreds  of  thousands  of  people  still  left, 
the  population  being  especially  dense  on  the  watershed  and  at  the  sources  of 
these  affluents  of  the  Congo.  We  must  not  allow  the  horrors  of  the  past 
to  paralyze  our  missionary  activities,  but  rather  determine  that  these  shall 


104  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

serve  as  a  burning  incentive  to  renewed  energy,  the  moment  the  opportunity 
arrives.  There  is  yet  a  great  future  for  the  Congolese  !  Unlike  the  North 
American  Indians,  these  people  of  Central  Africa  are  not  destined  to  pass 
away.  This  is  a  black  man's  country,  and  under  a  better  sway  the  future 
will  yet  be  bright  with  hope  !  When  I  think  of  the  anguish  of  those  who 
have  sown  the  seed,  so  often,  alas,  with  literal  tears,  and  watered  it  as  it 
were  with  their  life-blood,  then  am  I  convinced  that  we  shall  yet  see  a  time  of 
reaping  on  the  Congo  such  as  shall  be  the  praise  of  the  whole  earth !  Not 
in  vain  the  sorrows  of  the  past.  Not  in  vain  the  prayers  of  years.  The 
handful  of  corn  on  the  top  of  the  mountain  shall  yet  wave  like  Lebanon, 
and  the  glory  shall  be  the  LORD'S. 

But  if  this  is  to  be  so,  a  new  spirit  of  generosity  must  be  displayed,  for 
it  will  be  absolutely  impossible  to  extend  missionary  influence  amongst 
these  needy  suffering  peoples,  unless  friends  are  prepared  to  supply  the 
means.  We  need  to  adopt  practical  and  industrial  methods  of  training 
these  Congo  natives,  and  in  this  connection  the  splendid  achievements  of 
the  late  Dr.  Stewart,  at  Lovedale,  in  South  Africa  ;  of  Booker  Washington 
at  Tuskegee  ;  and  of  the  Hampden  Institute,  U.S.A.,  are  of  deep  signi 
ficance.  Similar  work  on  the  Congo,  conducted  on  practical,  common-sense 
lines,  in  addition  to  spiritual  teaching,  would  aid  in  the  equal  development 
of  head,  hand  and  heart,  and  result  in  the  production  of  a  generation  of  men 
and  women  whose  moral  nature  would  respond  more  readily  and  thoroughly 
to  the  teaching  of  the  SAVIOUR  of  men,  and  whose  independence  of  character 
would  be  the  best  guarantee  for  the  prosperity  of  the  country  after  these 
years  of  oppression  and  slavery. 

But  if  we  are  to  attempt  such  an  effort,  if  we  are  even  to  maintain  that 
which  has  been  begun,  we  need  a  large  accession  to  the  ranks  of  our  warm 
hearted  donors.  Existing  burdens  must  be  lifted,  ere  we  can  venture  to 
shoulder  new  responsibilities,  and  we  venture  to  appeal  earnestly  to  all 
readers  of  this  book  to  do  what  in  them  lies  to  strengthen  and  extend 
this  Christlike  work. 

Who  will  pray  ?     Who  will  help  ?     Who  will  go  ? 

H.  G.  G. 


MAP  OF  THE 

CONGO  RIVER 

Statute  Miles 

50     2S       O  ~50  WO  160 


2OO 


George  Philip  &.  Scm.L* 


A   Map    of  the   Congo   River,    showing   England    on    the  same   seal 

Congo   Balolo    Mission    marked    in 


TO  FACB  P.  ID*. 


bewildered"*  ^^^  JUUiaey>  a  Journey  tnat  has  lett  me  heartsick  and 


our  Missionaries  there. 


GeoyraphicaUnstLtiits 


ale,    and   with   the   six  stations   of  the 
n   red. 


ADI 


An  Outsider's  View/ 


1.     AT    BONGANDANGA,    JUNE,    1907. 

you  think  of  me  as  "  the  man  in  the  street " — as  the  individual 
to  whom,  by  reason  of  his  profession,  Sunday  is  a  busy  work 
day,  you  get  a  better  idea  of  the  value  of  my  opinions  regarding 
foreign  missions. 

Not  that  I  am  unacquainted  with  missionaries  and  their  work.  I  know 
them  in  the  South,  I  have  seen  their  work  in  Cape  Colony  and  Rhodesia. 
I  know  them  in  the  North  and  East. 

Why,  it  is  only  a  year  ago  since  poor  Budgett  Meakin  and  I  sat  on  the 
broad  verandah  of  the  Hotel  Reina  Christina  at  Algeciras,  and  talked 
learnedly  of  the  work  in  Morocco.  I  think  Meakin  was  amused  at  my 
cheap  cynicism — I  know  he  chuckled  at  my  bad  Arabic.  He  had  given 
the  greater  part  and  the  best  years  of  his  life,  to  his  work.  He  produced 
a  tiny  grammar  which  was  one  of  the  best  things  of  its  kind.  He  came 
to  Algeciras,  when  the  great  Conference  which  was  to  decide  Morocco's 
future,  was  holding  its  sessions.  He  alone  of  all  that  crowd  of  statesmen 
and  journalists  who  were  gathered  in  that  little  Spanish  town,  seemed 
ever  to  have  before  him  the  welfare  of  the  natives. 

"  One  would  imagine  you  thought  the  Conference  was  called  for  the 
betterment  of  the  Moors,"  I  remarked  flippantly  one  day.  "  Please  GOD, 
it  is  for  nothing  else,"  was  his  earnest  reply.  So  Meakin  went  home — 
to  die.  His  last  thoughts  were  for  the  natives  amongst  whom  he  worked. 
He  died  as  he  lived,  a  sincere  Christian  gentleman. 

It  is  a  far  cry  from  Morocco  to  the  Congo.  Yet  here  am  I,  some  1,100 
miles  from  the  coast.  If  I  turn  my  head  as  I  write  I  see  a  grand  stretch 
of  forest  that  sweeps  away  to  the  horizon.  This  Bongandanga  lies  on  a 
hill,  and  we  overlook  a  great  sea  of  tree  tops,  a  forest-ocean  that  stretches 
away,  away,  away.  Grey  mists  veil  the  far  distances.  Here  one  tree  rising 
above  its  fellows,  stands  for  a  tiny  island  in  the  sea.  Somewhere,  hidden 
by  the  trees  that  form  the  blue  line  of  the  horizon,  the  Congo  rolls,  a  great 
shallow  waste  of  water.  For  me,  Bongandanga  represents  almost  the 
end  of  a  long  and  trying  journey,  a  journey  that  has  left  me  heartsick  and 
bewildered. 


"This  article  is  reprinted  from  The  Congo  Balolo  Mission  Record  for  June.  1907,  and 
was  written  by  Mr.  Edgar  Wallace,  the  well-known  journalist,   when  staying   with 

our  Missionaries  there. 


io6 


NOT     UNTO     US." 


In  these  pages  it  would  serve  no  useful  purpose  were  I  to  touch  upon 
the  political  aspects  of  my  investigations.  The  "Record"  is  so  purely  a 
magazine  devoted  to  the  work  of  the  men  and  women  who  are  bringing 
spiritual  light  to  this  dark  country,  that  politics  would  be  a  jarring  element 
to  introduce.  And  yet  one  is  so  mixed  with  the  other,  that  I  find  a  diffi 
culty  in  effecting  a  separation. 

What  the  State  has  done  for  the  Congo  and  its  people  ;  what  work  the 
Government  has  accomplished  to  enlighten  these  poor  souls  living  in 
heathenism  ;  what  hospitals  it  has  erected  ;  what  schools  it  has  founded  ; 
what  measure  of  civilization  it  has  brought  into  this  vast  land— of  all 
these  things  posterity  shall  judge.  In  another  place,  and  in  other  columns 
than  these  I  shall  take  upon  myself  the  journalist's  privilege  of  prejudging 
posterity's  verdict. 

What  the  missionaries  have  done,  I  can  see  with  my  eyes,  and  seeing, 
I    am    prouder     of    my 
country  and  my  country 
men    and    women,    than 
ever  I  have  been  before. 

No  battle  I  have  wit 
nessed,  no  prowess  of 
arms,  no  exhibition  of 
splendid  courage  in  the 
face  of  overwhelming 
odds,  has  inspired  me  as 
the  work  of  these  outposts 
of  Christianity. 

I  say  this  in  all  sin 
cerity,  not  because  I  am 
any  more  of  a  Christian 
than  the  average  man  of 
the  world  ;  not  because 
I  am  impressionable  to 
Christian  work  and  Chris 
tian  service,  but  because 
my  sense  of  proportion  is 
sufficiently  well-adjusted 
to  allow  me  to  rightly 
judge  the  value  of  the 
work.  And  I  do  not 
especially  refer  to  the 


A  NATIVE  OF   BONGANDANGA. 


AN     OUTSIDER'S     VIEW.  107 

work  of  the  Congo  Balolo  Mission.  I  speak  as  enthusiastically  of  the  Baptist 
Missionary  Society  and  the  other  missions  of  the  Congo. 

Picture  for  yourselves  the  lives  of  these  missionaries.  Isolated  by  hun 
dreds  of  miles  of  forest  and  waterways  from  the  nearest  of  their  kind.  Set 
down  in  the  midst  of  cannibal  communities,  their  nearest  neighbours, 
the  representatives  of  "  the  State  " — frankly  inimical  to  their  labours. 
Here  at  Bongandanga,  you  may  picture  them  so  cut  off  from  intercourse 
with  the  world,  that  the  warning  whistle  of  the  "  Pioneer,"  as  it  threads 
its  tortuous  way  through  the  shallows  of  the  little  creek,  is  the  sweetest  music. 

I  do  not  know  who  reads  the  "  Record."  Whether  its  readers  be  "  hardened 
Christians,"  people  so  well  acquainted — in  theory — with  the  hardships 
and  sufferings  of  missionary  life,  that  they  receive  as  a  matter  of  course, 
the  stories  of  devoted  labour  ;  and  carelessly  and  complacently  accept 
them  as  part  of  the  "  day's  work."  I  believe  there  are  good  Christian 
people  who  do  not  realize  how  easy  it  is  to  get  into  the  habit  of  bearing 
other  people's  troubles  with  equanimity.  As  a  rank  outsider  I  cannot 
but  feel  that  what  is  wanted  here  on  the  Congo  is  very  practical  sympathy 
indeed  from  the  good  people  at  home— a  full  realization  that  missionary 
labour  on  the  Congo  means 

WORK,  HARD  WORK ; 

work  with  one's  bare  hands.  \Vork  that  means  sawing  wood,  and  building 
houses,  and  tilling  fields,  and  planting  trees.  Work  that  labourers  in  England 
get  paid  9d.  an  hour  for  performing. 

People  who  talk  glibly  of  "  work  in  the  missionary  field"  are  apt  to 
associate  that  work  with  house  to  house  visitations,  and  devotional  ser 
vices,  and  the  distribution  of  charity  ;  but  in  reality  it  means  all  these 
things,  plus  the  building  of  the  houses  one  visits,  building  of  the  churches 
in  which  one  worships,  the  inculcation  in  the  native  of  a  spirit  of  manliness, 
which  renders  charity  superfluous. 

Somebody  down  the  river  told  me  that  there  was  a  difficulty  in  getting 
men  and  women  for  the  missionary  work  in  Congoland.  Speaking  frankly, 
as  a  man  of  the  world,  I  do  not  wonder.  I  would  not  be  a  missionary  on 
the  Congo  for  £5,000  a  year.  That  is  a  worldly  point  of  view.  I  do  not 
think  it  is  a  very  high  standpoint.  It  is  a  simple  confession  that  I  prefer 
the  "  flesh  pots  of  Egypt "  to  the  self-sacrifice  and  devotion  that  the  mis 
sionary  life  claims.  Yet,  were  I  a  good  Christian,  and  were  I  a  missionary 
hesitating  in  my  choice  of  a  field,  I  would  say  with  Desdemona,  "  I  do 
perceive  here,  a  divine  duty." 

Look  at  the  records  of  the  Missions  of  the  Congo.  I  say  without  hesita 
tion,  that  every  work  of  progress  and  civilization  that  the  Congo  has  seen 


io8  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

has  owed  its  inception  and  has  been  brought  to  fruition  by  these  fine  people. 
The  very  chartering  of  its  great  waterways — a  State  work  if  ever  there 
was  one — was  carried  out  by  a  missionary. 

If  from  the  depths  into  which  the  natives  have  sunk  through  oppression 
and  neglect,  men  and  women  have  been  raised  to  the  level  of  good  citizens, 
the  missionaries  have  done  it.  All  that  is  best  in  this  sad  land  is  the  work 
of  the  missionaries.  And  all  this  has  not  been  accomplished  by  sitting 
tight  and  waiting  for  miracles.  It  has  not  been  done  by  lazy  pray  erf  ulness. 
Prayer,  I  doubt  not,  has  made  all  things  possible,  but  after  the  missionaries 
have  done  praying  they  have  taken  off  their  coats  and  got  to  work.  The 
right  kind  of  prayer  is  that  which  begins,  "  Oh,  GOD,  give  me  strength 
to  do  this  thing  " — and  that  is  the  kind  of  prayer  that  the  Congo  missionaries 
pray. 

They  are  making  men  on  the  Congo.  I  have  seen  that  with  my  own  eyes. 
It  is  the  only  bright  spot  in  the  gloom  that  enshrouds  this  land  of  Death. 

They  are  healing  the  sick  and  succouring  the  weak.  In  the  old  days 
of  Chivalry  to  succour  the  weak  and  aid  the  oppressed  was  the  charge  of 
every  good  knight.  Such  a  charge  these  knights  of  CHRIST  received  from 
their  OVERLORD,  and  most  worthily  do  they  fulfil  that  charge. 


2.    TWELVE   MONTHS    AFTER. 

BSTRACT  villainy  leaves  me  unmoved,  and  by  the  same  token 
abstract  goodness  bores  me.  Adams,  leaning  over  the  rail  one 
night  when  the  African  sky  was  a  blaze  of  starlight,  and  the 
wake  of  the  ship  through  the  oily  waters  was  marked  by  a  "  V  " 
of  phosphorescent  foam,  this  Adams,  a  doctor  of  medicine,  and  young, 
tersely  described  me  as  a  heathen.  That  is  a  year  ago,  and  Adams  is  buried 
in  a  pretty  west  country  churchyard,  far  away  from  the  smell  of  the  coast. 
But  I  am  thinking  how  the  poor  boy  would  have  smiled — sardonically 
perhaps — at  the  Heathen  discoursing  earnestly  on  the  Congo  Missionary. 
If,  "  Dr.  Harry,"  this  introduction  does  not  please  you  or  appears  in 
its  flippancy  to  be  an  unseemly  contribution  to  the  pages  of  missionary 
literature,  remember  always  that  for  years  I  received  a  fabulous  salary 
for  the  very  sake  of  my  flippancy,  and  no  more  condemn  it  than  you  would 
if  it  were  writ  in  dull  and  illiterate  English. 

Let  me  also  start  fair  and  air  my  prejudices.  Twelve  years'  acquaint 
ance  with  Africa  has  definitely  fixed  in  my  Scheme  of  Life,  the  exact  position 
of  the  native  races  of  that  sunny  continent.  The  place  of  the  native  is 


O" 


In 


C 


A  GROUP  OF  CONGO  CHRISTIANS. 

as  clearly  defined  as  the  social  status  of  my  under-housemaid.  Frankly, 
I  do  not  regard  the  native  as  my  brother  or  my  sister,  not  even  as  my 
first  cousin  ;  nor  is  he  even  a  poor  relation.  I  do  not  love  the  native — 
nor  do  I  hate  him.  To  me  he  is  just  part  of  the  scenery,  a  picturesque 
object  with  uses.  In  fairness  to  myself,  I  might  add  that  my  view  of  him 
is  on  all-fours  with  his  regard  of  me,  and  in  fairness  to  me  also,  there  are 
thousands  of  white  men  I  have  met  from  time  to  time,  who,  did  they  call 
me  "  brother,"  I  should  most  certainly  hand  over  to  the  police.  Between 
the  native  and  myself  is  the  gulf  of  a  thousand  years,  and  I  do  not  desire 
to  bridge  that  gulf,  but  long  acquaintance  with  him  has  given  me  at  least 
a  knowledge  of  and  a  respect  for  the  aboriginal  people  of  South  and  Central 
Africa.  Remembering  always  that  the  native  is  a  child,  with  the  whims, 
temper,  and  credulity  of  a  child,  it  is  a  very  simple  matter  to  gain  his 
love  and  his  respect.  Just  as  simple  it  is  to  earn  his  hate,  his  suspicion 
and  his  contempt. 

Well-equipped  with  knowledge  of  his  characteristics,  I  found  uyself 
at  Boma  twelve  months  ago,  a  prying,  inquisitive  seeker  of  news,  viewing 
the  abstract  evil  of  the  Government,  as  the  abstract  virtues  of  the  mis 
sionary  without  enthusiasm. 


no  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

I  propounded  two  questions. 

The  first  was  to  the  Government  represented  by  a  languid  governor- 
general  with  an  eye-glass. 

"  If  I  go  up  the  Congo  on  a  State  steamer,  will  you  undertake  to  land  me 
at  missionary  stations  so  that  I  may  get  the  missionary  version  of  the 
condition  of  Congoland  ?  " 

The  answer  was  uncompromisingly,   "  No." 

To  the  missionary,  a  tall  young  man  with  an  amused  smile,  who  sat 
perilously  on  the  rail  of  the  Congo  Balolo  Mission  steamer,  LIVINGSTONE, 
I  asked. 

"  If  I  go  up  the  Congo  on  your  elegant  steamer,  will  you  land  me  at  the 
'  State  '  stations,  so  that  I  may  get  the  Government  side  of  the  story  ?  " 

Macdonald  indicated  the  vast  expanse  of  the  Congo  with  a  compre 
hensive  wave  of  his  hand. 

'  You  can  go  anywhere — providing  there's  enough  water  to  float  the 
LIVINGSTONE." 

You  observe  the  cautious  proviso — Macdonald  is  Scotch.  Here  was 
a  point  in  the  missionaries'  favour — they  were  prepared  to  show  me  both 
sides 

Those   days   on   the   LIVINGSTONE  ! 

There  was  breakfast  at  seven,  and  then  prayers.  \Vith  all  the  tact  of 
diplomatists  these  missionaries  let  me  know  that  if  I  did  not  stay  to  prayers, 
they  would  put  the  most  charitable  construction  upon  my  boorishness. 

Yet  I  stayed  to  prayers,  remembering  that  there  was  a  time  .... 
and  it  was  beautifully  refreshing,  the  simple,  manly  little  service  in  the 
sweltering  cabin.  And  there  were  Sundays  when  the  boat  laid  tied  up  to 
the  bank  of  a  mission  station,  and  a  chapel  bell  tinkled  musically,  and 
there  was  a  Sunday  feeling  in  the  air.  As  for  me,  I  came  and  went  as  I 
wished,  no  man  saying  me  nay. 

From  Stanley  Pool  to  Bongandanga,  from  Bongandanga  to  Baringa  ; 
days  on  the  broad  bosom  of  M'Tumba  ;  days  of  patient  plodding  against 
the  fierce  current  of  the  river  ;  spangled  nights  in  the  silent  forest  reaches, 
where  naked  lights  flared  mysteriously  amidst  a  tangle  of  tropical  forest, 
and  the  night  long  "  clop  clop  "  of  axes  and  the  crash  of  falling  trees  told 
of  missionary  natives  preparing  fuel  for  the  voracious  fires  of  the  steamer. 
Then  there  were  days  of  investigation  when  I  sat  in  the  cool  of  the  mis 
sionaries'  verandah  and  listened  to  stories  of  unimagined  cruelties  from  natives. 

Picture  Abiboo,  the  Kano  boy,  my  servant,  a  sceptic  like  myself,  checking 
the  translation,  introducing  here  and  there  a  question  or  interjecting 
some  suspicious  observation. 


"  NOT     UNTO     US." 

Picture   the  earnest   native  squatting  on   the  ground,   emphasizing  his 
sonorous  periods  with  expressive  gesture. 

The  soldier  came  to  me  and  said  '  You  must  go  and  work 
rubber  for  Bula  Matadi '  I  am  a  chief  and  the  son  of  a  chief, 

but  I  have  no  people,  for  they  are  gone.  Some  have  died  in  the  chain, 
some  in  the  forest,  some  have  died  of  the  Sickness  ....  So  the 
soldier  knocked  me  down  with  his  rifle  and  put  his  foot  upon  my  neck  .  ." 
Already  the  Congo  to  me  is  as  a  dreadful  nightmare,  a  bad  dream  of 
death  and  suffering.  Such  a  dream  as  one  sees  o'  nights  when  nothing  is 
right,  when  every  law  of  man  and  nature  is  revolted,  and  the  very  laws  of 
life  are  outraged. 

A  bad  dream,  save  only  in  this,  that  mingled  with  the  mad  delirium  of 
lawlessness,  runs  a  brighter  theme.  And  it  is  of  men  and  women,  white 
men  and  white  women,  who  are  living  their  lives  and  dying  their  deaths 
at  humanity's  need :  who  are  creating  a  manhood  from  a  degraded  race  : 
who  are  making  Christians  and  citizens.  Hard,  bitterly  hard,  is  the  work  : 
full  of  disappointment  and  rebuff,  but  steadfastly  and  unflinchingly,  these 
brave  soldiers  of  the  Nazarene  are  fighting  His  fight. 

I  am  grateful  to  them  for  this  :    that  they  made  me   feel  ashamed  : 
ashamed  of  my  futile  life  by  the  side  of  their  great  achievements. 

In  England  I  met  a  smug  Christian,  and  told  him  of  these  missionaries. 

"  We  owe   them  our  prayers,"    he  said,   sententiously. 

I  laughed. 

"  Write  your  prayers  on  the  back  of  a  five  pound  note  and  send  the 
note  to  the  Congo  Balolo  Mission,"  I  said,  irreverently. 

EDGAR  WALLACE. 


.  \JT 


THE  EVANGELIST. 


PART 
IV. 


IIN  SOUTH  AMERICA  .  . 

AT  THE  OPPORTUNE  MOMENT. 


RELIEF  MAP  OF  SOUTH  AMERICA,  SHOWING  ARGENTINA  AND  PERU,  THE  TWO  REPUBLICS  IN 

WHICH  THE  R.B.M.U.   IS  AT  WORK. 


COME  OVER  AND  HELP  Us  !  "     THE  PLEA  OF  THE  INCA  INDIAN  OF  PERU. 


How  we  came  to  Enter  South 

America. 


HERE  is  one  great  distinction  between  the  missions  started  by 
the  R.B.M.U.  on  the  Congo  and  in  India,  and  those  for  which  we 
are  responsible  in  South  America.  In  the  case  of  the  former, 
we  thoughtfully  and  prayerfully  embarked  on  new  movements, 
which  from  the  very  first  were  the  outcome  of  decisions  arrived  at  in 
Council,  and  carried  into  effect  by  missionaries  who  volunteered  for  the 
task.  In  the  case  of  the  latter,  brethren  were  led  of  the  LORD  to  go 
forth  independently  to  South  America,  and  to  endeavour  whilst  earning 
their  living  as  teachers,  to  carry  out  the  commands  of  the  Master  by 
evangelizing  in  their  spare  time.  These  volunteers  virtually  became  our 
pioneers.  They  opened  the  way,  they  saw  what  ought  to  be  done  and 
tried  to  do  it,  and  then  appealed  to  us  to  adopt  and  organize  the 
movements  they  had  been  permitted  to  inaugurate.  This  was  the  course 
of  events  both  in  Argentina  and  Peru.  Individual  initiative  in  both  re 
publics  led  to  subsequent  organization.  Graham  and  Roberts  in  Argentina  ; 
Stark,  Jarrett  and  Peters  in  Peru,  led  the  way  ;  apart  from  any  home  direc 
tion,  support,  or  control.  Guided  by  the  SPIRIT  of  GOD,  these  brethren 
devoted  their  lives  to  South  America,  little  dreaming  that  they  were  to 
forge  the  links  which  should  bind  Harley  House  to  the  lands  of  their 
adoption. 

Many  of  our  students  have  thus  ventured  forth,  and  originated  missions 
that  are  doing  excellent  independent  work  to-day  :  but  for  none  of  these  has 
Harley  House  become  responsible.  They  have  gone  on  their  way  and  GOD 
has  prospered  them.  In  the  case  of  the  brethren  who  went  to  South 
America,  however,  the  very  pressures  they  experienced,  the  very  difficulties 
they  encountered,  finally  drove  us  to  their  rescue.  They  could  not  be  left  to 
struggle  on  alone  and  unaided.  Their  labours  demanded  organization 
and  support.  And  the  LORD  Who  thrust  forth  these  workers,  made  it 
abundantly  clear  that  it  was  His  purpose  for  us  to  stand  by  them  and 
strengthen  their  hands. 


n6  •'  NOT     UNTO     US." 

In  these  cases,  the  cry  "  Come  over  and  help  us,"  was  not  so  much  a 
plea  from  the  needy  souls  of  the  "  Neglected  Continent,"  as  from  the 
missionaries  who  had  gone  out  to  help  them  :  and  after  many  months  of 
prayer  we  "  assuredly  gathered"  that  the  LORD  would  have  us  recognize 
His  voice  in  their  appeal.  This  eventually  led  to  my  three  journeys  to  South 
America,  in  the  last  of  which,  1907,  my  daughter  Geraldine  accompanied 
me.  I  need  only  add  that  to-day  we  are  more  than  ever  convinced  of  the 
LORD'S  leading  throughout  these  years,— His  gentle,  progressive,  un 
mistakable  guidance,  the  constraint  of  the  SPIRIT.  To  this  we  attribute  the 
fact  that  we  find  ourselves  in  South  America  at  the  opportune  moment, 
when  the  whole  continent  is  awakening  to  fresh  life,  and  the  door  for  Gospel 
proclamation  is  opening  everywhere.  And  ought  not  this  conviction  to 
confirm  our  confidence  that  He  Whose  Hand  has  thus  far  been  with  us  for 
good,  will  sustain  us  through  every  difficulty  in  the  accomplishment  of  His 
gracious  purposes 

H.  G.  G. 


In  Argentina,  "A  Land  of  Hope.1 


Son  of  GOD  goes  forth  to  war."  Does  He  call  for  reinforce 
ments  in  Argentina  ?  Is  it  there  that  He  would  have  us 
follow  in  His  train  ? 

No  cry  of  anguish  reaches  us  from  that  fair  land  ;    no  tale 
of  famine  or  of  pestilence  ;    we  scarcely  know  the  story  of  its 
downtrodden   and   degraded   native   race  ;    that   is   not  our  problem  yet. 
On  the  surface,  the  Argentina  of  which  we  hear  appeals  not  so  much  to  our 
compassion  as  to  our  love  of  enterprise,  our  hope. 

There  in  that  Land  of  the  Rising  Sun,  is  a  nation  with  the  buoyancy  of 
youth  in  its  veins  ;  there  is  a  wide  stretch  of  country  ten  times  as  large  as 
our  own  ;  there  are  riches  in  soil,  in  mines,  in  cattle,  in  men  ;  there  is  a 
home  for  our  race,  a  land  of  the  future,  a  source  of  wealth  to  the  world — is 
it  not  also  a  kingdom  worthy  of  conquest  in  the  Name  of  our  LORD  ? 

Can  we  grasp  its  significance,  those  of  us  who  have  never  travelled  so 
far  ?  If  figures  make  any  impression,  here  are  some.  When  the  last 
census  was  taken,  21,701,526  head  of  cattle,  74,379,562  sheep,  4,930,228 
horses,  and  2,748,860  goats  were  grazing  upon  Argentina's  pampas  and 
mountain  slopes  ;  every  year  enormous  quantities  of  beef  and  mutton 


0 


A  STACK  OF  ARGENTINE  WHEAT. 

are  frozen  for  exportation  to  Europe,  as  well  as  many  thousands  of  tons 
of  wool,  skin  and  hides ;  and  this  trade  leaves  Argentina's  most  valuable 
product  untouched.  Her  annual  output  in  grain  bids  fair  to  exceed  that 
of  Canada  and  Australia — it  seems  as  though  she  might  supply  the  staff 
of  life  to  the  world.  In  1906,  she  exported  2,400,000  tons  of  wheat  and 
2,500,000  tons  of  maize  ;  yet  only  ten  per  cent,  of  the  240,000,000  of  acres 
of  available  wheat  land  has  been  put  under  cultivation.  The  rest, waits 
for  the  redemptive  work  of  the  harrow  and  plough,  and  these  widespreading 
plains,  for  the  most  part  flat  as  the  proverbial  pancake,  demand  men — 

"  Men  the  workers,  ever  reaping  something  new, 
That  which  they  have  done,  but  earnest  of  the  things  that  they  would  do." — 

These  are  the  men  for  which  Argentina  calls  and  from  nearly  every  country 
in  Europe  the  human  tide  is  now  flowing  swiftly  towards  her  shores. 

In  1904,  the  republic  received  161,000  immigrants;  in  1907,  213,000— 
a  number  exceeded  by  153,000  in  the  previous  year.  Its  total  population 
now  amounts  to  over  five  millions,  as  many  as  inhabited  the  England  of 
Cromwell's  time,  but  Argentina  might  absorb  the  whole  of  our  present 
population  and  still  have  room  for  more.  She  is  a  Land  of  To-morrow, 


G 


n8  "  NOT     UNTO     US " 

she  has  not  reached  her  full  strength  to-day.  Scarcely  a  century  has  elapsed 
since  she  roused  herself  to  shake  off  the  chains  of  her  Spanish  conquerors 
and  set  herself  to  the  task  of  acquiring  "  the  high  character  of  a  free  nation." 
Only  then  did  she  begin  the  struggle  which  continued  for  years  until,  from 
political  chaos,  there  emerged  the  admirable  constitution  which  won 
Gladstone's  praise  ;  and  only  then  did  she  enter  upon  the  controversies 
which  at  last  secured  those  liberties  of  press,  worship  and  conscience  which 
make  Argentina  a  fitting  home  for  the  free.  The  question  arises — what 
will  they  make  of  it,  these  peoples  who  are  coming  in  to  possess  the  land  ? 
Amongst  the  immigrants,  Italians  outnumber  the  rest,  but  Welsh,  Russians, 
Turks,  French,  Austrians,  Germans,  Danes  and  English  are  also  there. 
Some  of  these  nationalities  form  little  colonies  of  their  own,  but  the  children 
of  settlers,  being  born  and  brought  up  in  the  country,  are  called  Argentines 
and  are  proud  of  the  fact,  as  a  rule  speaking  only  Spanish  in  later  life.  They 
are  all  united  in  the  hard  task  of  making  the  earth  yield  its  treasure,  for  in 
this  new  land  riches  and  even  comfort  are  still  in  the  hands  of  the  few. 

"  With  all  its  actual  wealth,"  writes  Dr.  Francis  E.  Clark,  "  Argentina 
is  still  largely 

A  COUNTRY   OF   POSSIBILITIES. 

As  compared  with  our  own  prairie  states  of  Iowa,  Kansas  and  Nebraska,  its 
development  has  but  just  begun.  There  you  see  not  only  vast  fields  of 
corn  and  wheat,  but  thousands  of  comfortable  farmhouses,  tree-shaded 
villas,  thriving  towns  with  churches,  schools  and  court-houses. 

"  Here  you  strain  your  aching,  dust-filled  eyes  to  get  a  glimpse  of  anything 
besides  herds  of  cattle  and  flocks  of  sheep.  Away  off  in  the  distance,  after 
gazing  through  the  window  of  the  flying  train  for  half-an-hour,  perhaps, 
you  see  a  single  house  that  is  worthy  of  the  name,  surrounded  by  trees 
and  gardens.  In  the  same  distance  you  would  see  a  hundred  such  homes 
in  Iowa  and  Kansas.  This  solitary  house  is  on  an  estancia  or  gigantic 
farm,  occupied  for  a  few  weeks  of  the  year  by  the  wealthy  owner,  who  lives 
for  the  rest  of  the  twelve  months  in  some  palace  of  Buenos  Aires." 

Not  for  one  moment  when  we  think  of  Argentina,  must  we  forget  Buenos 
Aires,  the  most  fascinating  and  beautiful  city  under  the  Southern  Cross. 
With  its  busy  streets  and  gay  thronging  multitudes,  it  is  in  reality  the  Paris 
of  the  New  World,  and  follows  its  prototype  closely,  both  in  science  and 
fashion.  On  December  31st,  1907,  this  great  capital  contained  1,126,458 
people,  an  increase  of  nearly  43,000  in  twelve  months,  and  more  than 
one-fifth  of  Argentina's  total  population.  Its  wealth  is  enormous.  "  More 
millionaires  live  in  Buenos  Aires  than  in  any  other  city  of  the  world  of  its 
size,  if  that  is  an  enviable  distinction,  and  from  the  prices  charged  for  every- 


iao  "NOT     UNTO     US" 

thing,  from  a  house  lot  to  a  shoestring,  one  would  seem  to  need  to  be  a 
millionaire  to  live  there  for  any  length  of  time." 

This  city  of  wealth  and  magnificence  has  developed  with  marvellous  rapidity 
during  the  past  fifteen  years,  but  not  for  grandeur  alone  is  it  significant. 
Buenos  Aires  is  Argentina's  capital  in  a  unique  and  special  sense  :  in  it  all 
streams  of  influence  take  their  rise,  and  its  power  extends  to  the  furthest 
limits  of  the  Republic.  Since  then  Buenos  Aires  is  both  the  source  and 
centre  of  the  national  life,  how  imperative  it  is  that  she  should  lead  this 
rising  nation  into  paths  of  righteousness.  Unfortunately  every  traveller 
confirms  the  impression  that  the  millions  who  throng  this  gay  capital  of  the 
New  World  are  "lovers  of  pleasure  more  than  lovers  of  GOD."  Its 
Sunday  is  "  continental"  in  the  extreme  ;  everywhere  excitements  abound, 
and  the  day  is  devoted  to  recreation  of  many  varied  kinds.  The  opera 
is  open — and  even  the  auction  room — and  out  in  the  famous  Palermo 
Park  races  are  held,  where  men,  women,  and  children  put  their  money 
on  horses  and  go  wild  with  excitement  as  they  see  their  favourites  win.* 
And  in  the  churches,  those  magnificent  churches,  what  may  be  seen  ? 

One  of  our  Missionaries  writes  : — "  The  feast-day  was  that  of  Santa 
Lucia,  a  saint  whose  large  and  beautiful  church  is  quite  near  the  street  in 
which  we  live  in  Buenos  Aires.  We  found  the  interior  in  darkness,  except 
for  hundreds  of  candles,  giving  a  most  suggestive  "  dim  religious  light." 
But  it  was  so  crowded  that  we  almost  despaired  of  getting  to  the  other  end, 
and  when  we  did,  what  a  sea  of  heads  was  visible  from  the  altar  steps  ! 
What  were  the  people  doing  ?  Beside  the  many  shrines  lit  with  candles, 
there  was  a  figure,  very  beautifully  dressed,  of  Santa  Lucia,  who  is  supposed 
to  have 

MIRACULOUS     POWER 

in  weakness  of  the  eyes,  and  around  it  the  people  were  surging  in  such 
a  crowd  that  a  man  and  a  young  girl  stood  on  either  side,  and  received 
the  handkerchiefs  from  the  people,  and  returned  them  when  they  had 
touched  the  dress  of  the  saint,  in  order  that  they  might  be  placed  on  the 
eyes.  Those  whom  we  saw  doing  this  were,  of  course,  quite  well,  but  it  was 
probably  regarded  as  a  preventive  measure.  There  was  also  a  tiny  figure 
of  the  same  image  in  a  glass  case,  and  the  anxiety  to  touch  this  seemed 
almost  greater.  We  could  not  get  near  it.  Mothers  rubbed  their  hand 
kerchiefs  on  the  glass  and  then  on  their  babies'  eyes  !  Old  men  and 
women  were  crowding  to  it,  as  well  as  the  middle-aged  and  young.  Inside 
and  outside  of  that  church  it  was  like  a  fair  !  One  cannot  over-estimate  the 
power  and  influence  of  these  things." 

*See  "  Argentina,  the  Land  of  To-morrow,"  by  Robert  F.  .Elder. 


IN    ARGENTINA,    "A    LAND    OF    HOPE."  121 

This  brief  description  alone  is  sufficient  to  reveal  the  dark  shadow  lying 
over  the  nation's  awakening  life.  Spain,  compelled  to  relax  her  greedy 
grasp  upon  Argentina's  destinies,  left  it  behind  as  legacy,  and  still  Romanism 
encourages  the  superstitions  of  the  credulous,  and  urges  its  votaries  to 
press  forward  in  a  vain  attempt  to  purchase  Heaven. 

How  Argentina  needs  "  Luther's  broom,"  the  preaching  of  that  creating 
word  which  made  first  the  Reformer  and  then  the  Reformation.  "  The 
just  shall  live  by  faith  " — would  that  Argentina  believed  it  that  she  might 
rejoice  in  freedom  of  spirit  and  eternal  life !  At  present,  she  is  rapidly 
losing  confidence  in  her  State  Church,  and  is  in  peril  of  becoming  a  nation 
without  hope  in  GOD. 

We  are  told  that  already  the  proportion  of  true  Catholics  is  surprisingly 
small,  for  "  the  Roman  Church  has,  by  its  superstitions  and  exactions, 
and  its  lax  morality,  alienated  the  great  majority  of  the  men  of  the  republic. 
'To-day  we  are  Liberals'  ;  '  we.  are  free-thinkers'  ;  '  we  are  anti-clericals'  ; 
'  we  are  atheists'  ;  rather  than  '  we  are  Catholics'  is  their  confession,  although 
in  many  instances  these  declarations  are  not  made  publicly,  since  it  does 
not  pay  to  offend  the  Church.  At  the  same  time,  the  hostility  and  the  con 
tempt  that  is  generally  felt  towards  the  clergy  is  freely  expressed.  It  was 
complained  by  one  clerical  speaker  at  a  recent  conference  of  the  clergy  of 
the  Roman  Church  in  Buenos  Aires,  that  so  unsatisfactory  and  little  to  be 
envied  had  become  their  position  as  priests,  that  nowadays  they  were 
not  safe  from  insult  on  the  streets  of  the  city.  And  the  resentment  and 
indignation  so  forcibly  expressed  by  the  lower  classes  are  far  from  being 
unshared  by  those  in  a  better  position,  although  they  would  not,  of  course, 
stoop  to  give  such  an  expression  to  their  feelings." 

This,  then,  is  the  state  of  the  city,  and  consequently,  through  its  influence, 
the  condition  of  the  plains.  In  the  Church,  Mary  in  the  place  of  power, 
JESUS  CHRIST  neglected  or  unknown  ;  and  amongst  the  masses  outside, 
atheism,  agnosticism  and  free-thought,  with  all  these  imply  of  license  and 
moral  wrong.  How  we  ought  to  deplore  this  state  of  things,  for  let  it  not 
be  forgotten,  this  is  a  land  where  the  Gospel  may  be  preached  as  freely 
as  in  our  own.  Yet  this  is  a  land  which  knows  not  CHRIST,  in  the  purity 
of  His  life  and  the  power  of  His  great  sacrifice — therefore,  a  land  in 

which  He  must  be  proclaimed. 

*  *  * 

Let  us  rejoice  that  the  door  is  open  and  the  work  begun.  Amongst  Argen 
tina'  s  Protestant  missionaries  may  be  found  representatives  of  several  branches 
of  the  Christian  Church — if  only  it  were  possible  to  add  to  their  numbers 
all  would  be  well.  The  R.B.M.U.  has  twenty-two  workers  engaged  in  the 


IN     ARGENTINA,     "A     LAND     OF     HOPE."  123 

province  of  Buenos  Aires,  a  province  as  large  as  France.  They  occupy  five 
camp  towns,  four  on  the  Southern  Railway — Las  Flores,  Tandil,  Tres 
Arroyos,  and  Coronel  Suarez — and  Campana,  on  the  Rosario  Railway  to  the 
north-west.  The  populations  of  these  centres  vary  from  five  to  twelve 
thousand,  hut  all  round  them  lie  vast  districts  where  the  people  are 
scattered — for  the  most  part  endeavouring  to  meet  the  hard  strain  of  life 
without  GOD.  Tandil,  for  instance,  contains  12,000  people,  but  the  partido 
or  district  of  the  same  name  is  said  to  have  30,000 — a  sufficient  parish 
indeed  for  one  missionary.  In  a  few  other  towns  in  the  same  province, 
Christian  work  is  being  carried  on,  but  very  many  remain  where  the  Gospel 
has  never  been  preached.  Therefore,  we  are  not  satisfied  with  the  present 
condition  of  our  work  :  it  must  be  extended.  New  workers  are  needed, 
ready  to  press  on  with  heroism  through  a  long  series  of  monotonous  days, 
since  in  this  field,  at  any  rate,  missionary  labours  are  not  tinged  by  romance. 

School-teaching—how  wearing  it  is  to  an  ardent  evangelist— and  yet 
every  station  has  its  day  as  well  as  Sunday  School.  Preaching  to  small 
congregations  ;  sowing  seed  plentifully  and  only  occasionally  on  good 
ground  ;  mixing  with  various  nationalities,  and  overcoming  racial  prejudices  ; 
always  meeting  the  opposition  of  the  Church  of  Rome  ;  and  of  socialists, 
of  the  "  red  "  order,  scorning  the  evangelicos  as  fools— these  are  the  daily  tasks 
of  the  Argentine  missionary.  They  are  the  shadows  throwing  the  sunshine 
into  strong  relief.  For  in  each  of  these  five  camp  towns  to-day  there  is  a  Chris 
tian  centre  ;  a  group  of  sterling  Church  members  ready  to  endure  for  the  sake 
of  their  LORD  ;  to  put  a  Christian  conscience  into  their  daily  work  ;  to  go  out 
and  testify  in  the  regions  beyond.  In  four  of  these  towns  the  Mission  possesses 

EXCELLENT    CHAPELS 

and  mission-houses,  towards  which  generous  gifts  have  been  received  from 
the  church  members  and  other  friends  of  the  missionaries  ;  and  at  Tandil, 
where  a  permanent  building  is  still  needed,  contributions  are  coining  in. 

How  we  wish  that  we  might  enter  into  the  stories  that  lie  behind  these 
achievements — stories  revealing  the  steadfast  labours  of  earnest  women 
and  men.  We  will  only  mention  one  name — that  of  George  Graham, 
whose  life  at  Las  Flores  ended  four  years  ago,  but  whose  influence  still 
lives  in  many  parts  of  the  Argentine,  through  those  whom  he  taught  to 
know  GOD.  Yet  he  did  nothing  remarkable  he  just  toiled  on.  First, 
gathering  a  little  band  of  believers  around  him,  and  teaching  school  ; 
then,  as  the  work  extended,  collecting  funds,  and  superintending  the 
building  of  the  beautiful  house  and  chapel  which  now  adorn  the  town. 
Just  as  it  was  completed  his  call  came  ;  and  others  have  entered  into 
the  labours  which  he  loved  to  the  end. 


A   PAINTING  CLASS  FOR  THE  LADIES  OF  LAS  FLORES,  CONDUCTED  BY  MRS.   EDWARDS  OF  THE  R. B.M.I' 

"  Be  thou  faithful  unto  death  and  I  will  give  thee  the  crown  of  life." 
To-day,  Argentina  calls  aloud  for  faithful  workers  ;  another  man,  at  least, 
ought  to  be  added  to  the  staff  on  each  of  our  stations.  The  call  of  the 
wide  districts  around  them  is  constantly  heard,  but  how  can  it  be  answered 
without  men  ? 

And  if  the  scattered  populations  of  the  plains  need  our  help,  what  can  we 
say  of  the  city  of  Buenos  Aires  ?  We  have  alluded  to  its  magnificence,  to  its 
godlessness,  to  its  Church,  but  we  have  not  mentioned  its  poor.  They  are 
there,  living  in  conventillos ,  those  courtyards  surrounded  by  buildings 
one  or  two  stories  high, where  perhaps  a  hundred  families  live,  each  occupying 
a  single  room.  These  are  the  people  over  whom  the  hearts  of  our  missionaries 
yearn  ;  amongst  them,  Miss  Smith,  a  most  skilful  and  fully  qualified  nurse, 
is  establishing  a  work  somewhat  similar  to  that  carried  on  at  Bromley 
Hall  ;  and  in  one  of  these  conventillos,  Don  Perfecto  Marsili  lives,  the 
ardent  native  evangelist  who  was  led  into  the  Light  when  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Strachan  were  leading  our  mission  in  Buenos  Aires,  and  who  has  ever  since 
radiated  the  heavenly  gift  far  and  wide.  The  very  thought  of  that  one 
saved  life  and  its  influence  makes  our  workers  long  to  put  forth  their  full 
strength  in  Buenos  Aires.  Let  it  not  be  imagined  that  Protestantism  is 
unrepresented  amongst  its  masses  ;  several  Christian  agencies  and  a  number 


IN     ARGENTINA,     "A     LAND     OF     HOPE ." 


125 


of  independent  workers  are  rendering  most  excellent  service  ,  but  since  it  still 
contains  densely-populated  districts  where  the  Gospel  has  never  been 
preached,  a  place  waits  that  the  R.B.M.U.  ought  to  fill.  We  conclude 
by  a  glance  at  the  actual  situation  as  explained  by  Dr.  Harry  Guinness. 

"  What  is  needed  for  the  pulsating  heart  of  the  splendid  Argentine 
Republic,  is  a  work  somewhat  similar  in  character  to  the  McCall  Mission 
in  Paris,  save  that  it  should  possess  a  true  Church  membership  of  its  own. 
In  what  one  might  call  an  East-End  district  of  the  city,  some  of  our  mis 
sionaries  have  already  done  splendid  work,  but  in  premises  which  have 
since  passed  from  our  hands.  The  mission  founded  by  George  Smith  and 
subsequently  carried  on  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Strachan,  was  most  valuable  and 
successful,  and  we  should  have  much  liked  to  continue  it.  But  two  diffi 
culties  were  in  the  way.  First,  we  felt  that  we  were  not  in  the  best  centre 
for  permanent  operations.  We  wished  to  be  where  none  others  were  engaged 
in  Gospel  work,  to  be  true  to  our  name,  and  go  to  the  regions  beyond. 
And,  secondly,  we  felt  strongly  drawn  at  that  juncture  to  take  up  work 
in  the  important  town  of  Tandil.  It  was  therefore  decided,  after  prayerful 
consultation  on  the  occasion  of  my  visit  to  Buenos  Aires  in  1904,  that  our 


r\ 


THE  CHURCH  AND  MISSION  HOUSE  ERECTED  AT  TRES  ARROYOS  BY  THK  REV.  ROBERT  ELDER  AND  HIS  CONGREGATION 


IN    ARGENTINA,    "A    LAND    OF    HOPE."  127 

free  school  must  be  given  up  and  the  Church  members  temporarily  cared 
for  by  a  valued  native  worker  on  our  mission  staff,  Don  Perfecto  Marsili, 
who  would  gather  them  into  his  humble  Mission  Hall  until  such  time  as,  in  the 
providence  of  GOD,  we  might  be  able  to  appoint  Robert  Elder  to  take  up 
city  work  in  a  neighbourhood  where  we  should  be  the  only  Protestant 
Gospel  Mission. 

"  We  believe  that  the  time  has  now  arrived  and  are  hoping  this  year 
(D.V.)  to  take  the  first  step  towards  establishing  ourselves  in  the  busy, 
needy  district  of  Boedo.  Miss  Smith  and  her  sister  are  preparing  to  settle 
down  in  a  new  Nursing  Home  in  the  neighbourhood,  and  on  the  return  of 
Mr.  Elder  to  Buenos  Aires,  after  his  deputation  tour  in  the  Australasian 
Colonies,  we  hope  that  a  strong  Gospel  work  will  be  founded  and  carried  on . 
Mr.  Elder  has  gained  all  the  experience  needed  to  make  this  effort,  together 
with  a  good  knowledge  of  the  language,  during  his  first  period  of  service  at 
Tres  Arroyos,  and  now  he  is  ready  to  settle  down  when  the  LORD  shall  open 
the  door.  One  great  difficulty  attaches  to  the  acquisition  of  a  suitable 
centre.  Land  is  terribly  dear,  and  in  many  parts  of  the  city  has  doubled 
in  value  during  recent  years.  We  shall  need  £3,000  to  buy  a  site  and  begin 
the  work  in  temporary  premises,  and  eventually  considerably  more  to  build 
a  suitable  Gospel  Hall.  Towards  this  sum  we  have  about  £1,000.  Surely 
in  the  LORD'S  Name  someone  will  clear  the  way.  We  have  the  workers 
trained,  experienced,  ready  ;  the  vast  city  lies  before  us,  many  districts 
wholly  untouched  by  the  Gospel  of  CHRIST.  Would  not  someone  like  to 
undertake  the  noble  work  of  originating  a  mission  in  this  most  important 
strategic  centre  of  population  ?  No  one  can  calculate  the  blessing  to  multi 
tudes  involved  in  this  step.  Will  not  someone  take  it,  that  our  LORD  may 
be  glorified  and  His  work  done  ?  " 

"  The  Son  of  God  goes  forth  to  war  ; 
Who  follows  in  His  train  ?  " 

MARGARET  E.  RAE. 


In  Argentina — Do  they  need  us  ? 

|f  OME  say,  when  we  talk  of  Argentina,  '  They  are  satisfied  with 
their  religion,  they  do  not  want  you,"  but  whilst  we  admit  that 
the  latter  part  of  the  statement  is  on  the  whole  true,  the  former  is 
decidedly  incorrect.  Unfortunately,  they  do  not  want  the  Gospel, 
but  they  are  not  satisfied.  Did  we  want  electric  power  before  we  knew  of  it  ? 
Let  us  remember  the  old  saint,  who,  finding  himself  in  "  a  strange  city" 
eagerly  scanned  the  faces  of  the  passers-by.  "  Ah,"  he  said,  "  they  do  not 
love  me  because  they  do  not  know  me."  That  precisely  explains  the 
case.  Let  me  tell  you  a  story. 

The  Senora  Maria,  an  Argentine  lady  of  good  family,  an  educated, 
intelligent  woman,  and  a  devout  Catholic,  had  passed  through  exceptionally 
severe  trials.  She  was  not  able  to  bear  up  under  them  and  began  to  fear 
that  she  might  fall  a  prey  to  the  hereditary  insanity  of  her  family.  Knowing 
her  danger,  and  having  enemies  quite  capable  of  placing  her  under  restraint, 
her  condition  of  mind  can  be  more  easily  imagined  than  described  ;  and  when 
she  sought  to  find  comfort  and  strength  in  her  religion,  she  failed,  although 
she  sought  it  earnestly  and  with  tears.  Do  not  imagine  that  she  prayed 
to  images  and  pictures — she  was  too  enlightened  for  that — indeed,  she  had 
often  gone  the  length  of  thinking  that  the  money  they  cost  should  have 
been  given  to  the  poor.  "  No,"  she  said,  "  I  cried  continually  to  GOD 
Himself  to  speak  to  me,  to  let  me  know  that  He  heard  my  cry.  I  thought 
that  if  I  could  only  be  sure  of  that,  I  should  be  perfectly  happy  ;  but  He 
did  not  answer."  And  so  the  days  went  by. 

At  the  time,  Senora  Maria  had  in  her  house  as  caretakers  a  man  and  his 
wife,  who  had  been  recently  converted.  One  day  she  asked  Dona  Nicanora 
what  they  did  in  el  culto,  and  what  it  was  like.  The  latter  could  only 
answer  :  "  They  speak  of  JESUS,  and  the  poor  go  there." 

The  lady  continued  her  daily  attendance  at  Church,  until  one  day,  being 
in  an  agony  of  prayer,  she  besought  GOD  to  have  mercy  and  speak  to  her. 
"  Suddenly,"  she  told  us  afterwards,  "  a  voice  spoke  in  my  ear,  so  plainly 
that  I  almost  turned  to  see  who  was  near,  and  I  heard  the  message,  '  Get 
up  and  leave  this  place.'  I  was  amazed,  incredulous,  it  could  not  be  ; 
but  again  came  the  voice,  '  Rise  up  and  leave  this  place.'  Then  I  said, 


"  NOT     UNTO     US." 


'  Oh,  LORD,  Thou  knowest  I  would  never  leave  Thy  house  except  at  Thy 
bidding,  and  Thou  knowest  I  am  seeking  Thee.'  I  got  up  slowly  to  leave, 
but,  oh,  senora,  you  can  never  understand  what  I  felt  as  I  went — the  sense 
of  loss,  the  thought  of  leaving  all  that  I  had,  and  all  I  knew — and  for  what  ? 
If  I  could  not  find  GOD  in  His  own  House,  where  should  I  find  Him  ?  But 
then  Nicanora's  words  came  back  to  me.  '  They  speak  of  JESUS,  and  the 
poor  go  there.'  Well,  I  thought,  the  Saviour  was  always  with  the  poor 
when  He  was  on  the  earth — perhaps  it  is  the  same  to-day.  Quien  sabe  ! 
I  will  ask  Nicanora  if  they  will  let  me  in  to  the  culto.  The  first  time  that  I 
heard  the  preaching  I  felt  my  search  was  being  rewarded,  and  soon  I  found 
GOD,  and  he  spoke  to  me  and  taught  me  to  speak  to  Him.  You  know  all 
the  rest,  senora,  but  I  can  never  tell  what  a  wonderful  change  it  has 
been  to  me." 

That  dear  woman  was  saved,  and  though  trials  are  still  heavy  upon  her, 
she  is  a  very  bright  Christian  indeed. 

Do  they  need  the  Gospel  ?  Let  this  glimpse  into  a  life-story — one  of 
many — be  a  sufficient  reply.  And  since  they  need  us  we  must  go  on,  in 


G 


G 


o 


SOME  OF  THE   WOMEN  WHO  ATTEND  MRS.  COOK'S  CLASS  AT  CAMPANA,  ANOTHER  R.B.M.U.  STATION. 


IN    ARGENTINA— DO    THEY    NEED    US  ? 


spite  of  monotony  and  dull  routine,  for  those  who  delight  in  the  romance  of 
the  mission  field  would  find  little  to  charm  them  in  Argentine  life. 

One  of  our  missionaries,  before  going  out,  used  to  imagine  that  she  would 
spend  most  of  her  time  in  going  about  visiting  women,  with  her  Bible 
always  under  her  arm.  Later  on,  when  she  had  three  babies  and  a  servienta 
to  look  after  —  and  the  last  not  less  than  the  first  —  she  was  able  to  smile 
at  the  fond  delusion.  But  did  she  get  any  missionary  work  done  ?  Oh, 
yes,  and  I  am  inclined  to  think  more  than  she  might  have  accomplished  in  the 
other  way.  The  missionary's  home  ought  to  be  a  very  powerful  witness  for 
CHRIST,  since  in  Argentina  a  true  home-life  is  unknown.  The  children  are 
neither  trained  nor  controlled  ;  on  the  contrary,  the  children  rule  when  they 
are  small,  and  never  learn  to  do  anything  but  please  themselves. 

But  how  delightful  it  is  to  watch  the  homes  of  people  change  under  the 
influence  of  the  Gospel  ;  to  see  order,  cleanliness  and  brightness  take  the 
place  of  the  squalor  which  reigned  before  ;  to  know  that  the  Bible  is  read 
and  hymns  sung,  and  the  LORD'S  blessing  sought  on  the  meals.  This  is  the 
greatest  testimony  to  those  around,  and  it  does  not  go  unobserved.  On 
one  occasion  a  woman  said  of  her  husband,  who  had  professed  conversion, 
"  Oh,  yes,  he  says  he  is  converted,  but  I  don't  think  he  is  del  todo  (alto 
gether),  because  he  does  many  things  yet  that  the  others  do  not  do."  That 
woman  scarcely  had  any  real  knowledge  of  what  the  Gospel  demands, 
but  she  had  seen  the  lives  of  some  of  the  Christians  and  was  quick  to  realize 
that  the  standard  was  one  to  which  her  husband  had  not  attained. 

At  Tandil,  we  have  a  wonderful  saint  in  dear 
old  Dona  Josefa.     She  is  very,  very  ignorant  and 
very,  very  deaf,  but  a  spiritual  asset  of  the  highest 
value.     Although  frail  in  health,  there  is  no  more 
regular    attendant    at    the    meetings  ;     yet,   poor 
thing,  she  hears  next  to  nothing,  and  her  prayer 
now  is  —  "  GOD  bless  the  Pastor  that  I   may   be 
able    to    hear   him."      Dear  old 
body  !     Years  ago,  when  she  was 
^^••^^  learning  to  pray  in  public,  it  cost 

her  hard  work.  Being  a  native 
of  Vasconia,  a  province  of  Spain, 
she  speaks  a  dialect,  and  finds 
difficulty  in  making  herself  under 
stood  in  Spanish.  She  would 
begin  bravely  and  go  on  for  a 
sentence  or  two  —  then  a  full-stop 


SENOR  PRASILE,  A  NATIVE  EVANGELIST  OF  THE  R.B.M.U. 


DON  PERFECTO. 


"NOT     UNTO     US." 

and  a  great  sigh.  "  No  puedo  mas "  (I  cannot 
do  any  more).  Then  on  she  would  go  again  for 
another  sentence  or  two,  and  again  stop,  saying 
this  time—"  May  the  brethren  forgive  me,  I  have 
no  more  words."  Soon,  however,  she  learned  a 
prayer,  which  has  been  abundantly  answered. 
"  LORD,  give  me  words  to  speak  to  Thee."  Now 
she  prays  beautifully,  and  others  who  were  shy 
have  taken  courage  by  her  example  and  launched 

forth. 

k,  - 

That  dear  old  woman,  although  far  from  well, 
recently  walked  a  distance  of  over  six  miles,  dis 
tributing  tracts  and  speaking  wherever  she  found  a 

chance.  In  some  places  she  even  sang  hymns  in  her  old  croaking  voice 
that  has  not  the  faintest  harmony  in  its  tones.  But  there  was  music  in 
Heaven  that  day,  and  the  angels  were  not  making  it  all. 

Yes,  these  people  need  the  Gospel,  even  when  they  think  they  do  not 
want  our  help. 

In  Don  Perfecto's  conventillo,  in  Buenos  Aires,  a  nice  little  woman  lives, 
who,  having  found  the  SAVIOUR,  was  very  desirous  that  her  husband  should 
also  know  Him.  She  went  to  Don  Perfecto,  and  asked  his  help,  and  that 
same  Sunday  afternoon  he  sent  for  the  old  man.  But  Don  Juan  was  sus 
picious.  "  What  does  Don  Perfecto  want  me  for  ?  I  owe  him  no  rent. 
I  won't  go."  "  Oh  yes,  do,"  said  his  wife,  "  You  don't  know  what  he 
wants."  Finally,  the  man  took  up  his  hat  and  went,  followed  by  his  wife. 
After  a  pleasant  greeting,  Don  Perfecto  invited  him  inside,  and  then  quickly 
shut  the  door  and  took  his  hat,  saying — "  Don  Juan,  it's  quite  time  you 
were  convertido."  Oh  no,  Don  Juan  did  not  think  so.  He  would  come  back 
next  week,  next  Sunday,  any  time,  but  not  then,  he  really  must  go  then. 
"  No,  no,"  said  Don  Perfecto,  "  you've  got  your  head  full  of  ideas  that  you 
must  get  rid  of.  You  need  to  be  converted.  We're  going  to  pray  for 
you  right  now.  Get  down  on  to  your  knees."  And  they  all  knelt  down  ; 
Don  Perfecto  and  his  wife,  Don  Juan  and  his  wife,  and  another  helper. 

For  two  hours  they  prayed  steadily  on,  and  Don  Juan  made  no  sign- 
indeed,  the  wonder  is  that  he  stayed  there  on  his  knees.  At  the  end  of  that 
time,  Don  Perfecto  began  to  be  in  despair,  and  he  asked  GOD  that  if  there 
was  any  impediment  in  the  man's  life,  or  if  His  time  to  save  him  had  not 
come,  to  give  them  a  sign.  The  sign  he  asked  for  was  that  they  might 
rise  spontaneously,  and  it  was  granted,  but,  like  Gideon,  he  was  far  from 
satisfied.  This  time  he  thought  it  might  be  better  to  change  the  scene  of 


IN     ARGENTINA— DO     THEY     NEED     US?  133 

operations,  so  he  asked  them  all  to  go  into  the  bedroom  behind.  Now 
that  bedroom  contains  four  beds,  and  various  other  articles  of  furniture, 
leaving  very  little  room  for  visitors.  However,  in  the  square  yard  or  so 
between  the  beds,  they  knelt  again.  They  prayed  on  for  an  hour,  but  no 
sign  ;  for  another  hour  and  still  there  was  no  change.  '  Then  I  prayed  a 
beautiful  prayer,"  tells  Don  Perfecto  in  his  simple  way.  "  I  forgot  every 
thing — the  beds,  the  people,  and  everything.  I  was  seeing  GOD  and  talking 
straight  to  Him.  '  LORD,'  I  said,  '  it's  time  this  man  was  converted,'  and 
the  LORD  said  to  me,  '  Yes,  it  is  time.'  At  that  moment  a  great  thrill 
went  through  me,  and  the  next  Don  Juan  had  jumped  to  his  feet  crying 
for  mercy."  And  soon  that  little  company  was  rejoicing  together  over 
another  soul  brought  into  the  Kingdom. 

After  three  years  of  walking  in  the  Light,  old  Don  Juan  recently  passed 
away.  His  end  was  triumphant  and  his  dying  testimony  was  blessed  to 
the  conversion  of  others,  including  his  own  son.  How  curious  such  a 
change  appears  to  outsiders.  It  is  so  hard  for  these  people  to  understand 
that  religion  can  have  any  practical  bearing  on  the  daily  life.  What  does 
it  matter  how  they  live  if  only  they  confess  to  the  priest  at  fairly  regular 
intervals  ;  and  if  they  can  somehow  manage  to  pay  for  misas,  at  last  they 
will  be  greatly  blessed,  and  their  sojourn  in  el  purgatorio  all  the  shorter. 

"  If  the  light  that  is  in  them  be  darkness,  how  great  is  that  darkness  ?  " 

*  *  * 

In  Argentina — do  they  need  us  ?  Come  with  me  for  a  moment  and 
watch  this  procession  as  it  wends  its  way  through  the  streets  :  It  is 
Good  Friday,  and  CHRIST  is  dead.  Here  come  the  leaders  with  their 
brave  silken  banners,  two  files  of  boys  pacing  slowly  on  to  the  slow 
music  of  the  band  away  back.  Group  after  group  pass  on  with  their 
distinctive  badges,  boys,  girls  and  women — not  so  many  men — and  then 
a  funeral  car  draped  in  black,  with  a  glass  coffin  containing  the  dead 
CHRIST — an  image,  ghastly  and  waxen.  Priests  follow,  and  more  "  orders  " 
with  banners,  and  then  a  gorgeous  image  of  the  Virgin,  beautifully  adorned, 
with  a  jewelled  crown,  carried  shoulder-high  by  six  senoritas.  Some  more 
''orders"  and  banners  and  the  procession  has  passed.  What  does  it 
teach  the  people  filling  the  streets  ?  A  dead  CHRIST,  coffined  ;  and 
the  Virgin — one  might  almost  say  the  living  Virgin — carried  in  the  place 
of  pride !  Do  not  these  people  need  the  living  and  loving  SAVIOUR  ?  Are 
not  some  of  them  living  in  open  sin  ?  Others — many  others — are  weary 
and  heavy-laden.  You  can  see  it  in  their  faces  as  they  follow  the  dead 
CHRIST.  Oh,  if  they  only  knew  that  He  lives  and  loves  them  !  If  they 
could  only  enter  into  His  peace.  H.  S.  STRACHAN. 


A  FRANCISCAN  FRIAR. 


Our  Parish  in  Peru. 


HREE  distinct  regions  and  three  distinct  peoples  form  our  parisli 
in  Peru.  The  Republic  is  divided  by  nature  into  three  parallel 
parts — the  Coast,  the  Sierra  or  Mountains,  and  the  Montana, 
a  term  invariably  used  to  describe  the  tropical  valleys  on  the 
eastern  slopes  of  the  Andes  and  the  great  forest  lands  drained  by  the  head 
waters  of  the  Amazon. 

The  distribution  of  races  roughly  follows  these  natural  divisions  ;  the 
larger  cities  and  centres  of  Peruvian  culture  are  found  in  the  coast  region  ; 
the  Indian  clings  to  his  ancient  home  in  the  mountains  ;  and  the  Savage 
still  roams  at  large  in  the  vast  virgin  forests  of  the  Montana. 

The  term  "  Peruvian"  is  applied,  not  to  the  original  inhabitants  of  the 
country,  but  to  the  descendants  of  their  Spanish  conquerors,  and  corresponds 
exactly  to  the  term  "  American,"  as  used  in  the  Northern  Continent.  The 
Indian,  on  the  other  hand,  is  the  true  heir  of  the  soil,  and  represents  the 
remnant  of  the  once  mighty  empire  of  the  Incas.  The  savage,  a  totally 
distinct  type,  has  known  no  culture  save  that  of  nature  ;  leads  no  settled 
life ;  but  roams  from  place  to  place  in  search  of  the  game  that  falls  to  his 
bow  and  arrows. 

Four  hundred  years  ago,  Pizarro  tore  the  golden  image  of  the  Sun  from 
the  walls  of  its  Temple,  Coricancha,  and  Cuzco — the  City  of  the  Sun — became 
the  City  of  the  Cross.  He  planted  his  new  capital  by  the  shores  of  the  Rimac, 
and  throughout  the  length  and  breadth  of  the  empire  the  priestly  emis 
saries  of  the  Cross  went  forth,  conquering  and  to  conquer.  The  Inquisi 
tion  was  established  ;  nameless  deeds  of  blood  and  cruelty  were  perpetrated 
under  the  shadow  of  the  new  religion,  and  the  Children  of  the  Sun  became 
the  Slaves  of  the  Cross — or  perished.  Now,  for  well-nigh  four  hundred 
years,  the  Cross  has  been  supreme  in  Pern.  On  every  hill-top  it  stands, 
and  on  the  roof-tree  of  every  mountain  home.  No  road  or  trail 
is  too  lonely  or  unfrequented  to  have  its  wayside  Cross,  and  poor  indeed 
is  the  hut  that  cannot  display  the  sacred  emblem  on  its  smoke-blackened 
walls.  But,  alas!  — as  in  the  days  of  our  LORD — the  Cross  is  an  emblem 
of  degradation,  and  one  may  well  ask 

WHAT  HAS  ROME  DONE  FOR  THE  CONQUERORS  ? 


136  "NOT  UNTO  US." 

For  not  in  England,  where  the  modifying  influence  of  Protestantism  is 
widespread,  do  we  see  Romanism  in  its  essentials,  but  in  such  a  land  as  pool- 
Peru.  There  the  apostate  Church  has  been  untrammelled  in  its  working, 
and  we  can  test  the  results  of  four  hundred  years  of  ecclesiastical  rule. 

(1)  By  the  Confessional,  Rome  has  destroyed  the  sanctity  of  the  home 
and  the  purity  of  womanhood.     Across  the  hearth  falls  the  black  shadow 
of  the  priest,  and  every  husband  knows  that  the  innermost  thoughts  of 
the  woman  he  loves,  and  their  most  sacred  relationships,  are  laid  bare 
to  the  prying  eyes  and  impure  questionings  of  the  man  who  holds  heart 
and  conscience  in  his  unclean  grasp.     His  daughters  are  polluted  before 
they  reach  womanhood  by  the  filthy  questions  addressed  to  them  by  the 
priest   under  cover  of   the   Confessional. 

(2)  The   moral   sense,    especially   among   the   uneducated   classes,    has 
been  well-nigh  destroyed  by  Rome's  teaching  concerning  sin.     Indulgences 
can  be  bought  for  a  few  pence,  or  by  kissing  the  toe  of  an  image,  or  by 
repeating  a  prayer  before  a  saint,  or  by  taking  part  in  a  procession.     What 
conception  of  sin  can  any  people  have  who  are  taught  that  it  may  be  ex 
piated  by  such  trifling  ?     Outward  ceremonial  takes  the  place  of  inward 
purity,  and  religion  has  little  or  no  connection  with  morals. 

(3)  This  bold  reign  of  superstition  and  evil  has  inevitably  driven  the 
thinking  classes  to  infidelity.     The  thoughtful  man  says  :     "If  this  is 
religion,  I  want  none  of  it.     If  the  GOD  you  worship  is  a  Being  who  takes 
pleasure  in  this  foolery,  whose  priests  are  the  vilest  of  the  vile,  and  whose 
religion  is  opposed  to  light  and  truth  and  progress,  then  He  is  nothing  to 
me — I  will  believe  in  no  such  GOD."     The  result  then  is  that  you  have 
the  womanhood,  and  therefore  the  motherhood,  of  the  country  crushed 
under  the  heel  of  a  corrupt  priesthood,  and  the  manhood  of  the  country 
driven  into  the  darkness  of  infidelity  in  their  rebellion    against    a    false 
religion. 

So  much  for  the  conquerors  ;  and 

WHAT  HAS  ROME  DONE  FOR  THE  CONQUERED  ? 

What  of  the  Indian  ?  His  case  is  even  more  pitiable.  Once  the  child  of 
the  Sun,  the  heir  of  a  wonderful  civilization  and  culture — free,  virtuous, 
happy — he  is  now  a  slave  in  his  own  land,  born  to  misery  and  oppression. 
Ignorant,  superstitious  and  spiritless,  he  stands  a  monument  to  Rome's 
debasing  influence  upon  the  peoples  she  governs.  With  a  free  hand  to  work 
her  will  and  produce  her  fruits  in  this  people,  during  nearly  four  hundred 
years,  she  has  destroyed  all  that  was  good  in  them  and  developed  only  the 
evil,  till  to-day  they  are  incomparably  lower — morally,  mentally  and 
physically — than  they  were  beneath  the  beneficent  sway  of  the  Inca. 


A  STREET  PROCESSION  IN  Cuzco. 


I38  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

And  the  Savage,  what  of  him  ?  Wild,  untamed  and  unreached,  he  is  still 
beyond  the  blighting  influence  of  Rome,  but  he  may  not  long  remain  thus 
unfettered.  Commerce  is  turning  her  attention  to  the  Amazon's  vast  forest 
lands.  Syndicates  are  being  formed  to  develop  their  natural  resources,  and 
steamers  are  being  built  on  these  almost  unknown  rivers.  Now  that  the 
Congo  is  well-nigh  bled  to  death,  rubber  must  be  found  elsewhere,  and  the 
vast  virgin  forests  of  South  America  will  soon  supply  the  rubber  markets  of 
the  world.  What  of  the  savage  then  ?  Will  those  provinces  become  a 
second  Congo  ?  GOD  forbid  !  But  our  responsibility  is  plain,  and  the  call 
of  GOD  is  clear  to  enter  those  regions  with  the  light  of  the  Gospel  ere  the 
superstitions  of  Rome,  or  the  evils  of  commerce,  render  our  task  more  difficult 
by  a  hundred-fold.  A.  STUART  MCNAIRN. 


The  Pioneers  of  Protestantism. 

r 

O  mission  field  that  I  ever  saw  or  heard  of  seems  to  me  so  full  of 
unique  interest  as  this  old  Inca  Empire.  .  .  .  The  possi 
bilities  of  the  field,  as  well  as  its  difficulties,  appear  as  colossal 
as  the  Andes." 

So  writes  Dr.  Thomas  Wood,  who  for  nearly  twenty  years  has  laboured 
in  Peru. 

A  new  world  is  South  America,  immature  as  yet,  but  full  of  hope,  ambition, 
and  power.  A  new  race  is  this  Latin-American  people,  with  blood  of 
Spanish  Dons  mingling  with  that  of  extinct  Indian  races  in  their  veins, 
and  with  political  ideals  borrowed  from  France  and  America  moulding  their 
Republics.  The  problem  of  modern  Peru  is  the  problem  of  Roman 
Catholicism  and  its  offspring — rank  materialism.  Until  lately  the  Peruvian 
Republic  has  been  a  child  ;  now  it  is  springing  into  manhood  with  astonishing 
speed,  and  its  whole  future  hangs  in  the  balance  when  Roman  Catholicism 
and  Protestantism  meet.  Missionary  success  at  the  present  crisis  in  Peru 
will  be  epoch-making. 

Not  much  longer  will  the  South  American  continent  lie  largely  unknown 
in  the  far  south-western  seas  ;  its  immense  wheat-producing  plains  will 
supply  the  world  with  bread  ;  its  mines  will  make  millionaires  ;  and  its 
Amazonian  forests  will  be  the  greatest  rubber-market  on  the  earth. 
In  each  of  these  departments,  Peru  will  be  of  considerable  importance : 
but  no  Roman  Catholic  land  has  ever  retained  world-wide  greatness.  Our 
Peruvian  missionaries  are  in  the  very  centre  of  a  battle,  the  result  of  which 
will  be  the  making  or  the  marring  of  a  republic. 


THE     PIONEERS     OF     PROTESTANTISM.  139 

In  the  history  of  Protestant  missions  in  Peru,  the  missionary  has  ever 
been  the  fulcrum  upon  which  the  lever  of  religious  liberty  has  worked. 
In  1888,  Penzotti,  a  noble  American  colporteur,  was  imprisoned  for  eight 
months  with  the  lowest  of  this  earth's  criminals — the  victim  of  Casas 
Matas,  the  prison  of  Callao.  A  few  years  previously,  Jose"  Mongiardino 
had  been  basely  murdered  on  a  lonely  road  in  the  Andes.  In  1894,  Mr. 
Jarrett  and  Mr.  Peters  were  driven  from  Cuzco  at  twenty-four  hours' 
notice.  Even  in  1903,  Bibles  were  burned,  and  colporteurs  were  shot  at 
and  stoned.  But  the  lever  has  moved,  surely,  if  slowly,  and  the  Romish 
Church  in  its  unscrupulous  attacks  upon  the  missionaries  has  unconsciously 
driven  Peru  in  the  direction  of 

RELIGIOUS  LIBERTY. 

The  history  of  what  has  already  been  done  to  meet  the  needs  described 
in  our  parish  in  Peru,  is  an  introductory  part  of  the  story  of  the  campaign 
against  Romanism  there.  Papists  held  the  land  itself,  not  merely  its 
citadel.  It  was  once  well-nigh  impossible  to  live  within  its  borders,  let  alone 
to  commence  warfare.  But  the  attack  was  braved,  and  step  by  step 
CHRIST'S  soldiers  have  advanced — cautiously,  fearlessly  and  prayerfully. 
The  foremost  have  often  fallen  :  Robert  Lodge  was  laid  to  rest  in  the  first 
missionary  grave  on  the  Andes  ;  Harry  Backhouse  was  called  Home  after 
a  short,  strenuous  and  successful  fight  in  Lima  ;  noble  Will  Newell  served 
his  Master  in  death,  and  his  grave  and  its  precious  memories  are  still  a 
power  for  good  in  distant  Cuzco.  Some  lines  of  the  story  are  heart-breaking, 
but  the  advance  has  been  made,  and  now  the  ranks  of  Protestantism  have 
gained  the  summit,  have  surrounded  the  citadel,  and  its  siege  is  about  to 
begin. 

Twenty  years  ago  there  was  no  foreign  missionary  in  Peru  ;  to-day, 
the  fight  has  not  been  won — in  some  senses  it  has  hardly  commenced — but  we 
have  gained  the  ground  from  which  to  fight.  Public  opinion  has  been 
modified  ;  the  support  of  political  power  has  been  gained  ;  the  first  furious 
raids  of  fanaticism  have  been  withstood,  and  the  first  churches  have  been 
formed.  The  elementary  stage  of  the  work  seems  to  be  over,  and  we  are 
looking  to  our  Leader  to  do  great  things  in  the  coming  years. 

Space  forbids  us  to  narrate  the  detailed  story  of  how  this  has  been  accom 
plished.  That  missionary  history  tells  of  patient  work  in  Lima,  Peru's  great 
capital,  with  its  two  thousand  or  more  University  students  ;  its  fanatical 
and  fashionable  ladies  ;  its  wealthy  foreign  colonies  ;  its  sin-stricken  palaces 
and  alleys  ;  its  forty  thousand  Chinese  immigrants,  with  their  opium- 
dens,  temples  and  gambling  saloons ;  its  stalwart  negro  population  ;  its 
mingling  politicians  and  paupers.  It  tells  of  the  heart-breaking  and 


"NOT     UNTO     US." 

heroic  fight  at  Cuzco,  the  centre  of  the  ancient 
Inca  civilization — a  story  of  typhoid  and  death  ; 
of  attempts  at  murder  and  of  constant  danger  ; 
of  conditions  of  life  too  terrible  to  describe — results 
of  the  filthy,  undrained  state  of  the  city,  and  the 
shamelessly  immoral  lives  of  its  people  ;  of  the 
brave  work  of  lady  nurses  ;  of  the  first  baptisms  ; 
of  true  native  Christians  ;  of  the  heroic  stand  made 
on  her  deathbed  by  the  first  baptized  Cuzqueno 
lady  to  enter  the  Glory-land.  No  romance  was 
ever  more  full  of  life  and  love  and  tears,  than  this 
story  of  missionary  work  in  Cuzco.  It  tells  also 
of  the  attempted  work  atTrujillo, — GOD- 
inspired,  difficult  beyond  our  powers  of 
conception,  only  partially  successful,  but 
full  of  promise  when  at  last  abandoned 
through  lack  of  reinforcements.  It  tells 
of  the  strenuous  fight  at  Arequipa,  in 
touch  with  the  heart  of  Rome,  and 
exposed  to  the  full  force  of  her  hatred  ; 
of  a  dangerous  political  contest  ;  of  the 
wiles  of  the  Church,  and  of  the  victories  of 
a  few  brave  native  followers  of  CHRIST. 
It  finally  tells  of  an  effort  made  to  reach  the  Inca  Indians  ;  the  silent 
sufferers  who  live  around  Cuzco  on  the  Sierra — who  bow  to  the  yoke  of  every 
unscrupulous  priest,  merchant  and  judge,  and  have  no  friend  to  protest 
on  their  behalf  ;  who  are  ready  to  give  their  all  in  gratitude  for  any 
small  act  of  kindness,  but  know  not  that  we  have  a  far  greater  gift  which 
we  fain  would  give  them  ;  for  these  children  of  the  Incas  have  never  heard 
of  the  SAVIOUR  of  the  World.* 

Of  the  Indian  farm-scheme  ;  of  our  missionary-farming  expert ;  of  beauti 
ful  "  Urco  " — a  most  valuable  estate — and  the  friend  who  loaned  us  £3,000  to 
buy  it  ;  of  the  first  little  Indian  child  adopted  by  the  missionaries  ;  of 
the  native  Christian  who  first  read  the  Bible  in  Quechua  to  the  Indians  of 
the  Andes— of  all  these  things  the  story  of  the  mission  tells.  As  we  glance 
through  its  pages  our  hearts  go  out  in  deep  thankfulness  to  Him  who  has 
led  the  way,  and  we  once  more  face  the  unique  difficulties  of  the  field,  ready 
to  endure,  "  as  seeing  Him  who  is  invisible."  GERALDINE  GUINNESS. 


AN  INCA  INDIAN   YOUTH. 


*Furth«r  particulars  concerning  these  people  will  be  given  in  a  book  entitled,  "  The  Land 
of  the  Incas,"  by  Geraldine  Guinness,  to  be  published  in  the  course  of  this  year  by  the 
Regions  Beyond  Missionary  Union. 


The  Prospect. 


HATEVER  she  may  have  accomplished  in  other  parts  of  the 
world,  in  Peru,  Rome  is  an  utter  failure. 

The  religion  which  she  brought  to  the  land  of  the  Incas  was 
"  the  bigoted  and  bitter  Romanism  of  the  dark  middle  ages — 
intensified  by  the  Inquisition."* 

She  deliberately  compromised  with  idolatry,  yet  remained  unconscious 
that  its  influence  was  surely  debasing  and  re-paganizing  her. 

Upon  paganism  she  built  up  a  monstrous  scheme  of  fanaticism  and 
superstition,  having  somewhat  the  same  phraseology  as  Christianity,  but 
the  opposite  effect  upon  life  and  character.  Large  tracts  of  the  Republic 
she  has  left  until  the  present  time,  as  pagan  as  they  were  four  hundred 
years  ago. 

Rome  has  failed  to  give  the  Gospel  of  JESUS  CHRIST.  Protestant  Missions 
are  therefore  needed  as  much  in  Peru  as  in  Persia  or  Peshawur.  In  viewing 
the  facts  of  the  past  twenty  years  of  Christian  enterprise  in  this  Republic, 
one  may  regard  the  work  accomplished  as  very  limited  ;  the  towns  occupied 
as  very  few  ;  the  interest  raised  as  comparatively  small.  Yet  in  a  short  life 
time,  nothing  less  than  a  religious  and  social  revolution  has  taken  place  in 
Peru.  Only  those  who  have  lived  through  it,  can  estimate  this  change  ; 
the  pioneers  laboured  and  we  are  entering  into  their  labours.  The  Peru 
of  to-day  is  a  completely  different  field  from  the  Peru  of  1888.  It  is  a 
field  full  of  promise. 

Our  prospects  may  be  briefly  viewed  as  regards  the  Peruvians,  the  Inca 
Indians,  and  the  Savages. 

(I.)  The  extent  of  the  Pacific  Coast  of  Peru  (1,400  miles)  makes  it 
impossible  to  regard  the  country  as  one  mission-field.  Northern  Peru, 
with  the  large  towns  of  Trujillo,  Cajamarca  and  the  populous  district  of 
Huaylas ; — Lima,  and  the  towns  of  Central  Peru ; — and  the  important 
centres  which  are  connected  by  the  Southern  Railway , — are  three 
distinct  spheres  of  labour. 

The  first  is  yet  to  be  entered.  The  second  is  at  present  our  most  important 
centre  of  work  amongst  Peruvians.  In  Lima,  160,000  people  of  all  nationali 
ties  are  about  us  ;  hundreds  of  students  are  following  Huxley,  Spencer  and 
Darwin,  because  we  have  as  yet  given  them  no  evangelistic  and  scientific 
literature.  A  press  presented  for  this  very  work  will  shortly  be  on  its  way 
to  Arequipa,  where  we  hope  to  establish  a  distributing  centre  for  literature. 
All  periodicals  printed  in  Peru  may  be  sent  through  the  post  free  of  charge, 


"Thomas  B.  Neely  in  "  South  America — A  Mission  Field." 


G 


OUR  FIRST  CHAPEL  IN   AREQUIPA. 


hence  this  method  of  propaganda  will  be  economical  as  well  as  effective. 
Peru  is  flooded  with  the  pamphlets  of  free-thinkers  and  Seventh-day  Adven- 
tists,  yet  Christian  literature  suitable  for  students  does  not  exist.  Men  to 
whom  GOD  has  given  the  gift  of  writing  are  now  on  the  field  ;  the  press  is 
ready  to  be  sent  out  ;  but  capital  to  start  the  work  is  needed. 

In  Southern  Peru,  a  line  of  stations  will  probably  be  occupied  ;  Mollendo, 
Arequipa,  Puno,  Sicuani  and  Cuzco.  From  these  important  centres  we 
shall  be  able  to  reach  all  parts  of  the  Southern  Sierra.  The  nursing  work 
of  our  lady  missionaries  has  helped,  more  perhaps  than  anything  else, 
to  open  the  hearts  and  homes  of  these  fanatical  towns  to  the  Gospel.  Medical 
Mission  work  and  medical  tours  would  be  of  inestimable  value  ;  even 
Ayacucho,  the  town  which  many  say  is  destined  to  be  Rome's  last  Peruvian 
citadel,  could  be  entered  by  a  Protestant  doctor  ;  and  there  is  no  class  of 
people  with  whom  we  wish  to  come  in  contact  that  will  not  yield  to  the 
influence  of  skilful  charity. 

(II.)  The  next  few  years  will  witness,  GOD  willing,  the  first  success  of 
our  Indian  scheme.  Will  our  workers  be  able  soon  to  acquire  the  difficult 
Quechua  language  ?  Will  employment  break  down  the  barrier  at  present 
existing  between  ourselves  and  the  poor  Indian  ?  Will  the  priests  succeed 


C 


27 

af  of  PERU 

PTiBcipa)     ci^es, 
ilK»^>es     visaed    ty 

oj 


DISTRIBUTING  THE  BIBLE  OVER  2,000  MILES. 


The  places  underlined  on  this  map  were  visited  by  members  of  the  Lima  Evangelical  Church,  acting  as  Colporteurs  under 

the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society. 


144  "NOT     UNTO     US" 

in  putting  a  stop  to  our  work  ?  Shall  we  be  able  to  gather  some  Indian 
children  in  a  little  home  on  the  farm  ?  Will  it  be  possible  to  open  a  mission 
centre  for  the  Indians  passing  through  Cuzco  ?  Time  only  can  answer 
these  questions.  GOD  has  guided  us  very  clearly  in  the  past,  and  we  are 
trusting  Him  for  all  that  is  to  come. 

(III.)  For  the  Savages  of  Eastern  Peru,  we  have  no  help  as  yet.  The 
Baptist  Missionary  Society  is  hoping  to  commence  a  work  on  the  Amazon, 
and  gradually  to  extend  its  influence  up  the  different  tributaries,  but  it 
will  be  hundreds  of  miles  from  the  Peruvian  Montana. 

Rubber-traders  are  travelling  from  Cuzco  down  the  Paucartambo,  the 
Marcapata,  the  Yucayali,  and  other  tropical  valleys  ;  but  no  Protestant 
missionaries  have  yet  gone  forth.  Mr.  Johnson,  an  engineer  who  was 
employed  for  some  time  in  the  Cuzco  Industrial  Mission,  is  now  living  in 
the  forest  lands,  and  he  will  endeavour  to  get  in  touch  with  the  savages, 
who,  in  small  nomadic  tribes,  hunt  in  the  jungle  close  by  his  home. 

Men  are  needed  to  survey  this  land, — to  report  upon  its  possibilities — 
to  go  forth  determined,  at  all  costs,  to  enrich  their  Master — not  with  red 
rubber,  but  with  the  blood-bought  souls  of  men. 

GERALDINE  GUINNESS. 


1  *  Los  Propagandistas. ' 

ERU  !  A  thousand  memories  revive  as  I  write  the  word,  and  old 
scenes  are  re-enacted  one  by  one — just  as  if  a  cinematograph 
were  representing  its  missionary  life. 

We   are   walking  through   the   museum   in   the   University  of 
Cuzco.     A  number  of  students  have  gathered  around  Mr.  Ritchie, 
one  of  our  missionaries,  and  their  spokesman  says — '  You  say  that  the 
attributes  of  your  GOD  are  infinite,  yet  how  can  one  be  at  the  same  time 
infinitely  loving  and  infinitely  just  ?     No,  Senor,  your  own  words  are  true  : 

we  students  have  no  god  but  matter,  and  Spencer  the  prophet  of  matter  !  ' ' 

*  *  * 

Look  again  !  The  valley  of  the  Vilcamayu  is  sleeping  in  the  mid-day 
sun  ;  yellow  broom  scents  the  dusty  road  and  fields  of  purple  irises  delight 
the  eyes  of  a  tired  missionary  traveller.  His  saddle  bags  are  still  half  full 
of  Gospels  ;  in  the  last  town  the  priest  made  a  bonfire  of  those  he  gave  away. 
A  clatter  of  hoofs  and  a  cloud  of  dust  in  the  distance  !  Four  young  men  are 
galloping  after  him.  "  Senor,"  they  exclaim  breathlessly,  "  have  you 
any  copies  of  the  book  left  ?  We  have  never  been  able  to  obtain  a  Bible, 


LOS     PROPAGANDISTAS 


U5 


for  even  in  Lima  the  bookshops  do  not  stock  it.     But  we  are  seeking  the 
Light,  and  long  to  read  this  book  for  ourselves." 

The  precious  Word  is  sown,  and  perhaps  months  afterwards  the  fruit  will 
be  discovered  in  an  unlikely  place,  or  perhaps  no  result  whatever  will  be 
seen,  for  the  student  mind  is  trained  in  agnosticism,  and  hard  to  reach 
with  the  Gospel. 

The  sunshine  of  the  scene  fades  into  a  more  sombre  light,  and  we  find 
ourselves  in  a  small  white- washed  room  where  a  number  of  Peruvians  are 
gathered.  The  missionary  is  looking  over  the  audience  earnestly  and 
lovingly.  What  message  shall  he  give  to  this  strangely  assorted  group  ? 
There  are  students,  smartly  dressed,  amused  and  cynical  ;  there  are  poor 
women,  manfa-c\a.d,  shy  and  curious  ;  and  one  or  two  Indian  boys  who 
gaze  steadily  and  intelligently  around  them. 

How  can  he  make  the 
Gospel  clear  to  each  of  these 

various  classes  ? 

*  *  * 

The  scene  has  changed. 
We  are  now  with  a  lady 
missionary  amongst  the  poor 
of  Peru.  Look  about  you  ! 
Here  is  a  low,  windowless 
room,  where  bedclothes  are 
laid  in  one  corner  of  the 
mud  floor,  and  a  number  of 
women  squat  about  ;  on 
one  side  sits  a  beautiful  girl, 
slight  and  graceful,  with 
lustrous  black  eyes  and  a 
fascinating  childish  face.  I 
notice  her  pretty  silk  blouse, 
gold  rings,  and  Parisian 
shoes  ;  they  look  strange 
amid  these  squalid  sur 
roundings.  What  does  it 
mean  ?  This  is  the  story 
in  a  few  words  :  —  She 
is  just  sixteen  ;  last  week 
her  eight  months  old  baby 
died,  and  she  is  glad  ;  she 


UNIVERSITY  STUDENTS,  Cuzco. 


146  "NOT  UNTO  US." 

is    not    married,    and    the    German    father     of    the    baby    will    never 
come  back  to  her. 

Listen  !     The  girl  from  Doric  Lodge  is  singing  :-— 

"  Hay  una  fuente  sagrada 
Que  mi  Jesus  abrio  ; 
En  ella  mi  alma  banada, 
Sus  manchas  limpias  vio." 

(There  is  a  sacred  fountain 
Which  Jesus  opens  for  me  ; 
My  soul  washing  in  it 
Beholds  its  stains  cleansed.) 

Three  children  have  toddled  close  to  her,  and  the  old  woman  sitting  on 
the  floor  is  straining  forward  to  catch  every  word  of  the  hymn.  There  are 
tears  in  the  girl's  eyes,  and  her  gushing  words  of  appreciation  and  thanks 
cover  more  reality  than  usual,  for  next  night  we  catch  sight  of  her  sweet 
face,  swathed  in  a  black  mania,  amongst  the  little  crowd  which  gathers  in 

the  meeting  room. 

*  *  * 

Other  scenes  rise  before  us.  It  is  nearly  midnight,  and  the  narrow, 
cobbled  streets  of  Cuzco  are  chequered  with  bright  moonlight  and  inky 
shadows.  A  few  moments  ago  the  lady  missionary  was  awakened  by  stones 
at  the  window,  and  now  she  is  fearlessly  following  an  unknown  man  into  a 
dark  house  to  minister  there  to  a  needy  woman.  The  sufferer  lies  in  a 
corner  of  a  large  unlit  room,  dirty  and  empty  of  furniture.  Crowds  of 
neighbours  throng  around  the  bed  and  are  hardly  induced  to  move  by  the 
earnest  broken  Spanish  words  of  the  nurse  who  must  work  in  such  diffi 
culties. 

Morning  finds  her  on  the  way  home,  tired  and  over-strained  with  the 
night's  responsibility.  But  the  little  one  who  has  been  given  will  be  called 
after  the  Virgin  and  the  English  missionary  ;  the  father  will  read  the 
Gospels  left  in  his  poor  home  ;  and  the  mother  will  never  forget  the  kindness 

rendered,  strangely  enough,  by  an  accursed  heretic  ! 

*  *  * 

Look  again,  for  the  cinematographic  scenes  are  changing.  We  are  on  a 
country  road  where  a  wayside  cross  stands  dark  against  a  distant  snow 
peak.  Listen  to  the  drums  and  Indian  flutes,  and  ceaseless  patter  of  feet  ! 
A  strange  group  stands  below  the  cross  :  feathered  crowns,  flowing  Spanish 
wigs,  brilliant  plush  cloaks  and  parti-coloured  trousers,  mingle  their  bright 
colours  as  the  dancers  move.  We  are  witnesses  of  a  religious  celebration 
amongst  the  Inca  Indians.  The  drunken  dance,  a  remnant  of  paganism, 

is  in  honour  of  the  Unknown  GOD,  whom  the  sacred  cross  represents. 

*  *  * 


^     — r' 


• 


AN  INCA  INDIAN  GIRL  WITH  HER  CHILD. 

The  pictures  follow  one  another  quickly  now  :  scenes  of  cruelty  to  helpless 
Indians  ;  of  brutality  to  tiny  child-slaves  ;  of  abuse  and  neglect  and  ignor 
ance—just  peeps  into  the  home-life  of  a  childlike  people  ;  glimpses  01  their 
dark,  superstitious  religious  customs.  Each  of  these  scenes,  as  soon  as  it 
has  taken  form,  fades  into  another — always  the  same — the  picture  of  a 
beautiful  farm.  "  Urco  "  is  one  of  the  most  lovely  sites  in  the  most  charming 


i48  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

of  Peruvian  valleys.  Its  farm-house  is  built  on  a  spur  thrown  out  from  the 
perpendicular  mountain  walls  of  the  Vilcamayu  valley.  The  Incas  chose 
the  place  for  residence  ;  their  courtyards  and  walls  of  well-cut  stones 
are  used  to-day  as  stables  ;  their  terraces,  which  encircle  the  farm-house, 
are  sown  with  maize  ;  their  wonderful  aqueducts  still  water  the  estate  ; 
but  the  ruined  buildings,  which  were  probably  once  a  monastery  and  temple 
of  sun-worship,  are  now  deserted,  and  a  Protestant  missionary  is  examining 
the  great  stone  where  offerings  of  chicha  were  poured  out  by  pious  travellers 
as  a  libation  to  the  gods.  The  stranger  is  smiling  as  he  traces  the^rocky 
channel  by  which  this  wine  was  conveyed  into  one  of  the  monastic  cells, 
and  moralizes  on  the  universality  of  human  frailty. 

"  Viracocha!"  The  accustomed  greeting  floats  to  him  on  the  fresh 
mountain  air. 

"  Tai-tai  !  "  he  responds  to  the  Indian  shepherd,  who  with  his  little  boy 
is  driving  the  sheep  and  goats  to  pasture.  There  are  fourteen  other  families 
which  belong  to  the  farm,  and  they  all  know  the  kind  English  visitor. 

Carefully  the  missionary  is  surveying  the  estate  :  its  agricultural  and 
pastoral  possibilities  are  magnificent,  he  says  to  himself,  as  he  looks  down 
the  lovely  valley  towards  Calca,  the  neighbouring  town.  Terrace  upon 
terrace,  bright  with  waving  maize,  stretches  below  him  to  the  bog  where 
cattle  are  enjoying  themselves,  in  strange  mineral  waters  which  leave  their 
hides  yellow  and  pink  and  blue.  The  Vilcamayu  River  winds  its  silvery 
way  through  the  green  pastures  beyond,  and  on  either  side  dark  cliffs  rise 
sheer  to  Andean  snows.  Here  is  plenteous  water,  a  sheltered  valley,  and 
rich  soil.  From  the  terraces  below,  the  scents  of  wild  roses,  jessamine, 
and  geranium  rise,  and  in  one  sheltered  corner  the  stranger  notices  a  bamboo 
thriving. 

Next  day  finds  him  climbing  the  steep  ascent  to  the  punos  or  elevated  plains 
of  "  Urco."  The  farm-house  is  7,000  feet  above  sea-level,  but  the  punos 
are  3,000  or  4,000  feet  higher  yet.  There  he  may  ride  for  hours,  past  patches 
of  barley  cultivated  by  the  Indians,  potato  fields,  bleak  hillsides  where 
the  alpaca  loves  most  to  graze,  and  far-stretching  pastures  which  are  hired 
out  to  the  inhabitants  of  Calca  ;  he  may  travel  for  three  days  before  he  shall 
have  seen  the  extent  of  "  Urco." 

"  What  a  farm  for  a  missionary  project !  "  he  says  to  himself. 

"  Excellent  from  the  business  standpoint,  as  I  can  judge  from  my  experi 
ence  in  Australia,  it  will  surely  bridge  the  gulf  now  separating  us  from  the 
Indians.  Those  of  them  who  work  for  us  shall  be  freed  from  oppression, 
protected  from  the  priest,  and  taught  to  know  their  SAVIOUR." 


150  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

The  last  scene  we  look  upon  is  a  quiet  study  in  the  homeland.  A  cable 
gram  is  being  deciphered.  "  Adiestre  "—  what  does  this  word  signify? 
For  some  moments  there  is  an  anxious  silence,  and  then  a  voice  reads  out  : 
"  All  arrangements  for  purchase  completed."  Yes,  thank  GOD,  to-day 
"  Urco  "  is  the  property  of  the  R.B.M.U.  through  a  generous  loan  on  the 
part  of  a  warm  friend  of  the  Incas,  and  within  a  few  months  two 

missionaries  and  their  wives  will  take  up  residence  on  the  historic  spot. 

*  *  * 

Peru  !  Memories  flock  in  the  train  of  that  short  word,  and  not  only 
memories,  but  also  dreams  of  what  shall  be. 

According  to  the  love  and  faith  of  each  of  us  will  be  our  dreams,  and  the 
part  we  shall  play  in  making  them  real.  GOD  has  plans  for  Peru  in  which 
we  may  co-operate  if  we  will.  What  is  His  heart's  desire  ? 

GERALDINE  GUINNESS. 


Our  Prayer  Corps. 

N  the  yellow  sand  where  the  ripples  murmur,  children  can  seriously 
build  their  castles  or  innocently  play  without  fear.  But  in  the 
deep  waters,  even  experienced  sailors  are  often  at  their  wits' 
end,  and  in  desperation  cry  unto  the  LORD. 

Missionary  work  is  a  stern  reality,  and  its  superhuman  problems  and 
difficulties  have  driven  us  to  prayer. 

In  the  forefront  of  the  battle,  counsel  and  consideration  are  to  a  large 
extent  impossible  ;  that  is  the  place  for  prompt  action.  But  in  the  General's 
tent, — far,  it  may  be,  from  the  scene  of  battle, — every  step  is  deliberated. 

Many  of  us  must  tarry  by  the  stuff  while  others  go  to  fight,  and  with  us 
rests  the  glorious  privilege  and  grave  responsibility  of  prayer.  We  are 
the  Prayer  Corps  of  the  army,  with  a  duty  as  definite  as  those  who  are 
fighting  on  the  border  line. 

(I.)  Let  us  pray  for  the  missionaries  themselves,  that  in  physical  strain 
they  may  be  strengthened,  in  mental  isolation  quickened,  and  in  the 
asphyxiating  atmosphere  of  moral  degradation  and  spiritual  death,  indwelt 
by  the  HOLY  SPIRIT. 

(II).  Let  us  remember  the  financial  needs  of  the  work  in  Peru  which  can 
not  be  maintained  apart  from  considerable  and  increasing  expenditure.  Fresh 
volunteers  are  continually  completing  their  preparatory  studies  and  friends 
are  wanted  who  will  send  them  out  and  support  them. 

Let  us  pray.  The  way  is  open  ;  the  initial  difficulties  have  been  over 
come  ;  Peru  waits.  GERALDINE  GUINNESS. 


PART  V. 


I  IN  A  NEGLECTED  . 
CORNER  OF  INDIA. 


RELIEF  MAP  OF  INDIA,  SHOWING  BEHAR,  WHERE  THE  R.B.M.U.  is  AT  WORK  IN  TWO  PROVINCES, 

CHAMPARAN  AND  SARAN. 


Our  Indian  Empire. 

HOUGH  we  travel  from  Brindisi  to  Inverness,  then  take  steamer  to 
Lisbon,  and  journey  thence  to  St.  Petersburg,  \ve  shall  still  not 
have  traversed  the  full  length  and  breadth  of  the  continent  which 
is  covered  by  the  term  "  Our  Indian  Empire."  Its  population 
of  some  three  hundred  millions  is  about  equal  to  that  of  Europe,  excluding 
Russia,  and  is  broken  up  into  the  same  diversities  of  language,  religion 
and  race,  with  as  little  prospect  of  growth  into  one  confederation.  Punjabi 
regiments,  sent  to  Madras,  regard  themselves  as  much  in  a  foreign  land, 
as  would  Highlanders,  if  quartered  in  Italy.  In  addition,  even  when  the 
people  appear  to  be  homogeneous,  they  are  mostly  disintegrated  by  caste, 
which  has  banished  individualism  and  limited  collective  action  to  the  rare 
occasions  of  a  common  interest. 

India  is  a  valuable  training  ground  for  our  soldiers  and  administrators, 
and  their  incorruptibility,  industry  and  gentleness  furnish  a  standard  to 
the  world.  Its  geographical  position  in  respect  to  the  developing  markets 
of  China  and  Japan,  of  Australia  and  Africa,  makes  it  a  trade  centre  of 
increasing  importance,  while  there  is  no  indication  that  the  competition 
for  the  trade  route  to  the  East  is  diminishing,  or  that  we  are  less  the  envy 
of  the  nations  by  reason  of  its  possession. 

Have  we  thought  about  the  price  paid  for  India  ?  Not  in  British  capital. 
We  have  that  stake  in  other  countries  ;  but  in  the  blood  of  soldiers  and 
sailors  ;  in  the  lives  of  officers  of  all  services,  of  their  wives,  and,  not  least, 
of  their  children  ;  in  the  devoted  toil,  to  which  the  world  has  no  parallel, 
of  those  by  whom  the  prosperity  of  India  has  been  reared  up. 

Do  we  realize  that  these  costly  labours  are  evolving  a  new  India  ?  Before 
the  light,  idolatry  is  gathering  together  its  polluted  skirts  and  beginning 
to  skulk  from  the  society  of  the  educated.  India  is  becoming  as  keen 
as  her  neighbours  to  learn,  and  impatience  is  already  manifested  if  caste, 
superstition  and  custom  forbid  advance.  There  will  emerge  a  huge  popu 
lation,  conscious  of  power,  without  any  sense  of  responsibility,  but  happily 
not  without  salt  to  save  it  from  corruption.  As  long  ago  as  1840,  Dr. 
Duff,  by  his  memorable  appeal  on  behalf  of  missions  in  India,  roused 
Scotland  to  take  that  prominent  part  in  the  Christian  education  of  India's 


I54  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

youth,  which,  it  is  not  too  much  to  say,  is  to-day  helping  to  safeguard  the 
political  situation.  Pressed  and  handicapped  by  the  demands  of  the 
Education  Department,  the  Missionary  Colleges  have  never  ceased  to  keep 
a  place  for  the  Bible,  knowing  that  it  is  truth,  and  not  a  University  Degree, 
that  makes  a  man,  and  righteousness,  and  not  civilization,  which  exalts 
a  nation.  Missions,  throughout  the  Empire,  are  putting  on  board  the 
ballast  which  will  save  the  ship  when  the  storm  of  hastily  adopted  new 
ideas,  sweeping  before  it  all  the  restraints  and  beliefs  of  the  past,  bursts 
upon  India. 

THE  OPPORTUNITY. 

This  is  the  day  of  extraordinary  opportunity.  On  one  hand,  the  examples 
of  Japan,  China  and  Korea  are  stimulating  Indian  ambition  to  rise  to  a 
higher  level  among  men.  On  the  other  hand,  the  present  trend  of  racial 
feeling  in  parts  of  America,  Africa  and  Australia  is  somewhat  roughly 
teaching  Orientals  that  the  maintenance  of  idolatry  is  incompatible  with 
a  claim  to  equality  with  nations,  which  have  centuries  ago  purged  themselves 
from  its  debasing  influences  and  fear  its  sensuality  too  much  to  tolerate 
in  their  midst  any  considerable  number  of  those  who  permit  it.  In  both 
China  and  India,  the  year  1857  marks  the  transition  from  a  period  of  long 
preparation  to  one  of  more  rapid  and  steady  development.  In  both 
countries,  the  most  recent  years  are  causing  apprehension  lest  a  lavish 
and  superficial  education  may  act  as  an  intoxicant,  inflaming  the  brain, 
without  strengthening  the  character.  The  request  of  some  of  the  chiefs 
of  India  for  religious  education  seems  to  indicate  disquietude  as  to  the  effects 
of  purely  secular  teaching.  If  China  discovers,  as  Japan  to  some  extent 
has  done,  that  the  Bible  standard  of  right  and  wrong  underlies  all  Western 
stability,  it  may  be  that  the  day  will  come  when  India  will  demand  instruc 
tion  in  the  Book  which  delivered  Europe  from  paganism,  and  is  to-day 
uplifting  many  races.  Till  then,  it  is  the  duty,  as  it  is  the  opportunity, 
of  all  Christians  to  make  a  great  effort  to  increase  the  circulation  of  the 
Bible.  Its  steadying  influence  throughout  the  East  is  incalculable. 
OUR  RESPONSIBILITY. 

The  Indian  Empire  belongs  to  us.  Much  has  been  given  to  us,  and  of  us 
much  will  be  required.  The  world  regards  Britain  as  responsible  for  India 
and  will  judge  us  by  results.  "  What  will  be  the  price,"  writes  "  The  Times," 
in  reviewing  Lord  Cromer's  Egypt,  "to  be  paid  ultimately  for  intro 
ducing  European  civilization  into  these  backward  Eastern  societies  is  the 
grave  problem  which  faces  us  all  over  the  East."  At  the  present  time, 
heathendom  is  being  strengthened  by  all  the  knowledge  and  appliances 
discovered  by  Christendom.  There  is  temporary  safety,  because  the  inrush 


OUR     INDIAN     EMPIRE.  155 

of  light  is  bending  back  the  forces  of  darkness  and  breaking  them  up. 
Later  on  there  will  come  a  rally.  Armed  with  new  weapons,  restrained 
by  no  morality,  and  without  the  fear  of  GOD,  these  enormous  populations 
will  indeed  become  a  peril,  unless  the  unique  opportunity  is  seized  by  the 
Christian  Church  to  sow  the  Gospel  seed  in  hearts  specially  open  to  receive 
it.  There  is  avidity  to  read  and  there  are  few  books.  The  Bible  is  trans 
lated  and  ready  for  issue.  What  a  moment  to  multiply  the  agency  for  its 
distribution  !  There  are  crowds  ready  to  listen.  What  an  eagerness  for 
preachers  !  Why  are  they  not  sent  ?  Parents  and  children  crave  educa 
tion,  and  will  receive  it  from  Christian  lips.  Why  do  men  and  women 
not  go  to  teach  ? 

THE  CALL. 

From  the  Madras  Decennial  Conference,  in  1902,  an  appeal  reached  this 
country,  pointing  out  that  there  ought  to  be  one  male  and  one  female 
missionary  for  every  50,000  of  the  population  of  India.  This  would  mean 
quadrupling  the  number  of  missionaries  then  in  India,  or  raising  the  total  from 
3,000  to  12,000.  As  a  first  step,  the  Conference  pleaded  for  the  doubling  of 
the  missionary  staff  within  ten  years.  More  than  half  the  period  has  elapsed  ; 
with  what  result  ?  Probably  the  increment  is  not  above  one  hundred  per 
annum.  Is  there  any  constraining  love  of  CHRIST  to  make  us  care  for 
India  ?  Apply  the  test.  Take  Meywar — there  is  an  area  of  about  12,000 
square  miles  with  some  800,000  souls.  There  are,  perhaps,  four  mis 
sionaries.  There  ought  to  be  thirty. 

THE  NEED. 

Prayer  is  needed.  There  is  no  prayer  in  our  Churches  for  the  Viceroy, 
Governors  and  Lieutenant-Governors,  their  ministers  and  councillors. 
Why  has  the  government  of  300,000,000  people  no  place  in  our  public 
prayer  ?  There  is  soon  to  be  a  united  meeting  of  Missions  working  in  India. 
May  one  outcome  be  an  appeal  for  prayer  for  India  in  our  churches !  More 
lady  workers  are  needed.  Brave,  devoted  and  winsome,  capable  of  deep 
and  true  love  ; — the  women  of  India  are  worth  winning  for  CHRIST.  There 
are  thousands  of  ladies  in  this  country,  with  means  and  no  particular 
vocation,  who,  were  they  to  transfer  themselves  to  India,  would,  after  a 
crowded  and  absorbingly  interesting  life,  leave  behind  them  a  name  that 
would  be  remembered,  and  an  influence  that  would  long  survive  their  death. 

And  the  boys  !  Oh  !  that  one  generation  of  boys  could  be  saved  from  the 
corruption  that  awaits  them  !  It  can  only  be  done  through  the  ladies  who 
are  moving  among  the  mothers  of  India. 

And  the  educated  youth  !  Mr.  Mott  told  us  the  other  day  that  they  were 
marching  to  failure,  because  they  have  no  self-control,  no  moral  strength 


OUR     INDIAN     EMPIRE  157 

to  resist  temptation.  Closer  contact  is  needed  with  these  young  men 
during  the  period  of  education.  In  the  colleges  of  the  aristocracy  this  has 
been  secured,  and  has  been  successful.  The  system  needs  expansion. 
Especially  are  hostels  required  for  the  sons  of  Indian  Christians,  where  they 
can  live  with  a  resident  European  missionary. 

The  low  standard  to  which  native  Roman  Catholics  sank  has  been  a 
great  hindrance.  Protestant  Christianity  is  about  to  be  judged  by  its  fruits. 
It  will  be  because  native  Christians  excel  their  neighbours  in  character  that 
the  non-Christian  multitude  will  be  moved  to  recognize  the  power  of  the 
Gospel  message. 

Then  the  education  given  to  Christian  children  and  rescued  orphans 
requires  examination.  Every  such  child  ought  to  receive  the  best  possible 
education  and  be  taught  a  means  of  livelihood.  The  mission  colleges  were 
originally  designed  to  reach  non-Christians,  but  each  of  these  colleges 
ought  to  be  provided  with  a  hostel  for  Christian  boys,  supervised  by  a  man 
who  would  fire  them  with  his  own  enthusiasm  to  win  India  for  CHRIST  in 
this  generation.  How  is  this  to  be  done  unless  measures  are  taken,  with 
a  wide  outlook  to  train  and  equip  the  Indian  Christian  children  for  active 
service  ? 

To  this  end  there  is  needed  the  co-operation  of  all  the  Societies  in  estab 
lishing  Christian  schools  and  colleges,  normal  and  theological  colleges. 
It  is  hopeless  to  expect  the  quality  of  Christian  teachers,  male  and  female, 
the  coming  situation  demands,  or  the  standard  of  native  ministers  which 
the  Indian  Church  now  requires,  from  the  small  number  of  pupils,  the  in 
adequate  staffs,  the  stinted  funds,  of  a  number  of  different  societies,  which, 
if  combined,  would  transmit  power  to  all  India.  Large  sums  have  been 
spent  to  convert  the  parents.  What  is  being  spent  to  maintain  Christianity 
in  their  offspring,  and  a  respect  for  Christianity  in  the  community  ? 

Is  it  not  time  for  the  appointment  of  a  joint  commission,  representing 
the  chief  agencies  in  the  field,  to  proceed  to  India,  and  thoroughly  examine 
all  the  mission  work,  to  ascertain  where  and  how  it  can  be  co-ordinated  ? 
Men  and  money  would  be  set  free  to  undertake  fresh  evangelistic  work  and 
much  that  requires  doing  would  be  brought  to  the  knowledge  of  England, 
the  great  Colonies  and  America. 

ANDREW  WINGATE,  K.C.I.E. 


In   Behar. 


INAPORE  was  Henry  Martyn's  first  parish  in  the  East.  That 
was  a  hundred  years  ago.  "  What  a  wretched  life  shall  I 
lead/'  then  wrote  that  earnest  servant  of  the  world's  SAVIOUR, 
"  if  I  do  not  exert  myself  from  morning  till  night  in  a  place 
where,  through  whole  territories,  I  seem  to  be  the  only  light." 

Henry  Martyn,  scholar,  translator  of  the  Scriptures,  preacher,  was  first 
of  ah1  a  simple  believer  and  a  man  of  prayer.  "  Almost  overwhelmed  at 
the  sight  of  the  immense  multitudes,"  with  a  burning  heart  and  a  rapidly 
wasting  body,  he  cast  the  burden  of  his  concern  for  their  souls  upon  GOD 
in  daily  intercession,  and  pleaded  that  His  saving  Word  might  yet  have 
free  course  and  be  glorified  all  over  the  province  of  Behar. 

Towards  the  end  of  1899,  two  missionaries  of  the  Regions  Beyond  Mis 
sionary  Union — Messrs.  Banks  and  Hicks — arrived  at  Dinapore,  the  place 
where  Martyn  had  prayed,  to  begin  an  interdenominational  mission  in 
the  province  for  which  he  had  pleaded. 

If  GOD'S  servants  do  the  highest  thing  that  men  can  do  when  they  pray, 
GOD  surely  purposes  the  best  that  Divine  love  can  do  for  His  children 
and  for  the  world,  when  He  moves  to  intercessory  prayer. 

Well  does  the  writer  of  these  lines  remember  the  appeal  made  by  Miss 
Lucy  Guinness,  who  was  afterwards  Mrs.  Kumm,  to  a  gathering  of  students 
at  Cliff  on  behalf  of  the  most  neglected  part  of  the  great  Indian  field.  The 
fervour  of  it  was  intense.  But  when,  turning  from  appeal  to  man,  the 
LORD'S  handmaiden  knelt  on  the  turf  in  that  tent  and  prayed  the  LORD 
of  the  Harvest  to  thrust  out  labourers  into  Behar,  one  felt  that  GOD'S 
time  to  favour  the  province  of  Henry  Martyn's  still  unanswered  prayers 
was  near  at  hand. 

Much  was  done  when  "  Across  India"  was  written,  but  immeasurably 
more  when  the  writer  of  that  thrilling  record  of  appalling  need  went, 
burdened  by  all  that  she  had  seen,  and  learned  and  felt,  straight  to  GOD'S 
heart  in  prayer. 

When  the  first  station  of  the  R.B.M.U.  was  founded  at  Motihari,  at  the 
close  of  1900,  by  the  camping  in  a  mango-grove  there  of  the  pioneers  of 
the  mission,  the  eager  spirit  of  expansion  that  led  them  thus  early  out 
of  Dinapore  was  just  what  might  have  been  expected  to  characterize  workers 
thrust  out  in  answer  to  such  prayer. 


160  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

Nor  is  it  surprising  that  when  the  second  station  of  the  mission  was 
opened  at  Siwan,  about  a  year  later,  the  messengers  of  the  Gospel  found 
themselves  within  fourteen  miles  of  the  place  where,  not  long  before,  a 
Christian  lady  engaged  in  temporary  hospital  work  among  poor  plague- 
stricken  people,  had  prayed  that  the  Gospel  might  be  sent. 

Thus  has  the  LORD  been  leading  through  obedient  lives,  until,  with  a 
third  station,  established  at  Chanpatia  in  1905,  and  another  opened  later  at 
Gopal  Ganj,  the  K.B.M.U.  now  possesses 

A  PLURAL  BASE 

of  operations  in  Behar,  from  which  we  dare  to  hope  the  Leader  and  Com 
mander  of  His  people  will  conduct  a  warfare  against  the  powers  of  darkness, 
and  a  conquest  of  souls  not  only  all  over  Behar,  but  also  into  the  fast-closed 
land  of  Nepaul. 

It  is  no  small  token  of  divine  working  that  the  gift  of  a  distinct  power 
to  discern  and  to  describe  the  need  and  the  opportunities  of  the  new  field  has 
been  granted  to  the  first  workers  in  it — notably  to  one  of  their  number, 
Mr.  Hodge.  Many  a  man  who  can  do,  and  has  done,  good  missionary 
work  is  a  poor  writer  and  an  ineffective  speaker,  but  the  fact  that  so  arresting 
ami  illuminating  a  book  as  "  Caste  or  Christ  "  has  been  produced,  to  make 
things  as  the  missionaries  find  them  real  to  people  in  this  country,  and 
in  Australia  and  America,  confirms  the  hope  that  GOD  purposes  to  make 
interest  in  the  evangelization  of  Behar  a  heart-engrossing  matter  with 
many  of  His  children.  Surely  He  intends  to  lay  upon  their  hearts  the 
burden  that  compels  to  prayer, — to  prayer  which  goes  up  to  GOD  as  the 
soul's  pledge  of  those  who  offer  it  that  they  will  do  all  that  His  grace  and 
providence  make  possible  on  behalf  of  those  prayed  for,  for  the  sake  of 
One  from  Whom  comes  the  impulse  and  the  power  to  pray. 

Our  work  in  Behar,  within  the  limited  area  which  it  at  present  occupies, 
touches  the  life  of  the  people  at  as  many  points  as  there  are  points  of  need. 
Bazar-preaching,  indoor  services,  house-to-house  visitation,  orphanages, 
schools,  dispensaries,  Bible-classes  for  students,  are  among  the  means 
used  to  bring  GOD'S  help  and  salvation  to  the  perishing. 

The  surprise  of  the  Motihari  women  when  the  missionary  and  his  wife 
received  into  the  Mission  House  a  little  foundling,  forsaken  by  its  mother— 
their  surprise  that  a  mere  castaway  infant  should  be  regarded  as 
worth  caring  for,  is  an  incidental  revelation  of  one  part  of  the  need  which 
it  is  the  privilege  of  the  servants  of  the  children's  SAVIOUR  to  meet  in  His 
Name.  It  is  an  illustration  also  of  the  value  of  our  Orphanages  as  an 
expression  of  the  spirit  and  the  method  of  Christian  faith.  In  nothing 
does  the  Gospel  differ  more  sharply  from  all  natural  systems  of  religion 


IN     BEHAR. 


161 


than  in  the  place  which  it  gives  to  the  "  little  child."  From  every  land 
where  the  Gospel  is  not  known,  the  cry  of  the  children  comes  as  the  most 
plaintive  note  in  the  Macedonian  plea— "  Come  over  and  help  us  !  '  And 
this  cry  makes  up  no  small  part  of  Behar's  appeal  to  us. 

1   hear  the  chilclmi  crying  in  the  night, 
The  little  children  :"— "  GOD  of  Stars  and  Sun, 

\\V  do  not  like  the  darkness  ;    send  down  light 

I '"ron i   where  there  is  so  much  to  whero  there's  none  ; 

Fire-flies  and  flowers  we  love,  and  all  things  bright. 
Hut  in  our  hearts  it's  dark  :    Dear  GOD,  send  light  ! 

"  A  little  Child,   we've  heard,  Thou  once  didst  send — 

Light  to  the  heart  of  all  the  world  to  be, 
And  so  we  think,  dear  (ion.  Thou  didst  intend 

Some  light  for  little  children  such  as  we. 
For  what  a  child  can  bring  a  child  can  take  ; 

Then  give  us  light,  dear  Gou,  for  that  Child's  sake. 

"  And  if  it  be  there  is  no  light  to  spare — 

Dear  GOD.   forgive  if  what  we  ask  is  wrong, 
We're  only  In- tit  lie  n   children — Is  it   fair 

That  others  should  have  all  the  light  so  long  ? 
We  would  not  wish  that  they  should  have  our  night, 

Hut  when  will  our  turn  come  to  have  the  light  ?  " 

That  GOD  is  blessing  our  ministry  to  the  children  of  Behar,  the 
following  from  the  pen  of  the  children's  man  among  our  mis 
sionaries — Mr.  Banks— will  show. 

"  One  of  our  scholars  who  came  daily  from  a  village  some 
three  miles  off,  asked  for  medicine  for  a  boy  named  Mukhtar, 
saying  he  was  suffering  severely  from  dysentery.  We  sent 
medicine  for  some  weeks,  and  then  heard  that  the  patient  was 
no  better,  and  would  assuredly  die. 

"  Going   to  visit  in   the  village  where  he  lived,  Mukhtar  was 
pointed  out    to   us   by   our  scholar.     The  boy's  appearance  was 
pitiful  indeed,  since  he  was  not  only  thin  and  weak  to  the  last 
degree,   but   also  painfully  dirty.     However,  we  invited  him  to 
come  to  the  Mission  House,  telling  him   that  when  he  was  well 
enough  he  might  either  stay  in  the  Orphanage  (both  his  parents 
being  dead),  or  go  back  to  his  friends — just  as  he  liked.     \\e  did 
not  expect  him  to  come,  but  nevertheless  Mukhtar  arrived  the 
next  day.     After  being   washed — he  had  not  had  a  bath  for  six 
months — we  gave  him  a  bed  in  the  joiner's  shop,  and  did  all 
we  could  to  restore  him.     In  a  month  he  was  going  to  school, 
and,  in  spite  of  his  ignorance,  soon  learnt  the  alphabet  and 
listened  to  all  that  was  taught  him  about  the  true  GOD  and 


A  VILLAGE  MAIDEN. 


162  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

His  Son,  JESUS  CHRIST.  Soon  his  brothers 
began  to  urge  his  return,  but  he  always  refused, 
saying,  '  When  I  was  ill  you  left  me  to  die.'  It 
was  true,  neither  brother  would  keep  Mukhtar 
in  his  home  after  the  boy  fell  ill.  It  is  no 
wonder  he  said,  '  The  missionaries  have  been 
kind  and  good  to  me,  I  will  stay  on  with  them.' 
Last  autumn  Mukhtar  had  a  relapse,  and  the 
doctor  at  the  Government  Hospital  ordered 

him   to  stay   in  bed  for  some  time.     He  was 
MUKHTAR. 

both  good   and  patient,  and  soon   afterwards 

expressed  a  desire  to  be  baptized  and  recognized  as  a  Christian.     Knowing 
his  character    to  be  greatly  changed,  and  receiving  satisfactory  answers 
to  the  questions  we  asked,  his  wish  was  granted,  and  we  trust  that  he 
may  become  a  good  soldier  of  JESUS  CHRIST,  leading  others  to  Him." 
The 

FIRST  CONVERTS 

of  our  Behar  mission  were  Ram  Dayal  and  his  wife  Ram  Raji. 
The  first  heart  that  GOD  opened  to  receive  the  Gospel  in  heathen 
Europe  was  the  heart  of  a  woman.  The  womanhood  of  Behar  must  be 
reached  if  the  country  is  to  be  evangelized.  And  it  is  a  fact  of  beautiful 
significance  that  as  Ram  Dayal  takes  his  stand  by  the  side  of  the  European 
missionaries  as  a  witness  for  CHRIST,  Ram  Raji  does  the  same  by  the  side 
of  the  missionaries'  wives.  Thank  GOD  for  the  homes  that  this  saved 
Indian  sister  is  able  to  enter  with  the  story  of  GOD'S  love  revealed  in  CHRIST 
JESUS  the  LORD.  The  women  of  Behar  must  be  reached,  not  only  for 
their  own  soul's  sake,  but  also  for  the  sake  of  the  men  whom  they  have 
such  terrible  power  to  hinder  until  they  are  enlightened  to  truly  help. 
It  is  pitiful  to  see  how,  in  their  ignorance,  the  women  of  India  misinterpret 
the  signs  that  present  themselves  when  the  young  men  of  the  household 
begin  to  show  an  interest  in  CHRIST  ;  how  they  construe  into  an  omen  of 
dire  evil  that  which  is  the  herald  of  the  day  of  their  own  emancipation 
and  salvation.  Their  case  is  strikingly  set  forth  in  the  "  Legend  of  the 
Dove  of  Dacca,"  which  relates  how  a  Hindu  Rajah,  made  aware  of  the 
approach  of  an  invading  band  of  Mohammedans,  went  out  bravely  to  meet 
them,  taking  with  him  a  white  dove.  The  return  of  the  winged  messenger 
to  the  palace  was  to  be  the  sign  to  his  family  of  his  defeat,  and  the  signal 
from  him  to  destroy  themselves  and  their  home  ere  the  violent  invaders 
could  arrive.  The  battle  was  fought  and  the  Rajah  gained  the  day.  He 
turned  homewards,  flushed  with  the  joy  of  victory,  but,  as  he  stooped  by 


IN     BEHAR 


163 


\J 


a  river  to  drink,  the  dove  escaped  from  his  bosom  and  flew  swiftly  towards 
the  palace.  There,  eager  eyes  had  been  watching  lest  the  token  of  defeat 
should  appear.  They  thought  they  saw  it  draw  nigh,  and,  although 
the  Rajah  hastened  on  his  way  with  the  utmost  possible  speed,  he  only 
arrived  in  time  to  throw  himself  upon  the  burning  ruins  of  his  home. 

The  SPIRIT,  "  like  a  dove,"  is  drawing  near  to  thousands  of  Indian  homes 
to-day,  and  the  unenlightened  women  do  not  understand  what  it  means. 
These  women  who  have  most  reason  to  hail  His  coming  with  joy  are,  in 
their  ignorance,  busying  themselves  in  the  dread  work  of  self-destruction, 
and  the  destruction  of  loved  ones,  wiser  than  themselves,  but  so  linked  with 
them  as  to  be  almost  inevitably  involved  in  the  results  of  their  ignorance. 

Who  will  go  ?  Who  will  give  ?  that  the  women  of  Behar  may  be  made 
familiar  with  the  story  of  JESUS  and  the  principles  of  the  Christian  faith  ? 
There  are  mothers,  to-day,  holding  back  from  the  Kingdom  sons  to  whose 
hearts,  in  the  freer  life  they  live,  the  message  has  come.  There  are  husbands 
similarly  hindered  by  superstitious  wives.  If  the  efforts  of  the  missionaries 
among  the  men  are  not  to  be  frustrated  to  a  great  extent,  our  work  amongst 


O 


G 


VILLAGE  WOMEN  OF  BEHAR. 


164  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

the  women  must  be  greatly  increased.  Christian  women,  clothed  with 
divine  power,  and  with  hearts  burning  to  tell  the  story  of  a  SAVIOUR'S 
love,  must  enter  the  homes  of  the  people  in  town  and  in  village,  and  let  the 
women  know  that  the  Dayspring  from  on  High  has  visited  their  land. 

Ages  gone,  Judean  women, 

Saw  One,  in  fair  manly  prime, 
Rise  above  the  petty  prudery 

Of  an  unheroic  time, 
Rise,  and  lift  the  yoke  which  earth-power 

Lays  upon  weak  woman's  neck, 
And  with  wreath  of  queenly  vantage 

Womanhood's  meek  brow  bedeck. 

Sin-stained  sisters,  friend-forsaken, 

Stood  erect,  condemned,  forgiven, 
As  He  spake  and  looked  GOD'S  pity, 

While  He  looked  and  spake  of  Heaven  ; 
And  fair  "  honourable  "  women, 

Hasting  higher  good  to  greet, 
Found  their  crown  of  all  life's  longing 

Reaching  downwards  to  His   feet. 

So   shall    India's   mothers,    maidens, 

Wives — and  downcast  widows  too — 
Find  their  womanhood's  redemption, 

Life  made  pure  and  strong  and  true, 
When  He  findeth,  as  He  seeketh, 

Access  where  His  love  can  shew, 
How  GOD  makes  the  bliss  of  Heaven 

Out  of  bitterness  below. 

There  is  an  India  within  India  united  to  us  by  a  stronger  tie  than  merely 
political  and  commercial  ties  can  ever  form  between  two  widely - 
separated  parts  of  the  world.  There  is  the  India  that  speaks  our 
language,  that  reads  our  literature,  that  has  been  enfranchised  with  us 
into  the  commonwealth  of  ever-expanding  thought  ;  the  India  of  the 
universities  which  are  part  of  the  outcome  of  British  rule  in  the  East  ; 
the  India  of  the  learned  professions,  of  a  scientific  culture,  of  legitimate 
and  becoming  personal  and  national  aspirations  ;  in  a  word,  the  India 
that  we  have  educated  but  have  not  evangelized. 

Our  Behar  mission  is  affecting  that  India,  and  we  must  pray  and  plan 
that  it  may  affect  it  with  a  rapidly  increasing  scope  and  power.  The  work 
of  Mr.  Hicks  in  his  Bible-class  for  students  is  full  of  the  inspiration  of 
unlimited  promise. 

This  India  is  in  some  respects  the  problem  of  the  missionary.  Chagrined 
at  discovering  that  their  fathers  have  been  deluded  by  superstition,  the 
educated  Indians  are  exceedingly  averse  to  believing  in  the  supernatural. 
They  are  prone  to  dwell — to  the  point  of  becoming  contemptuous  in  spirit, 


r\\ 


WAITING  FOR  THE  DISPENSARY  TO  OPEN. 

if  not  in  speech— on  the  fact  that  Christianity,  as  it  comes  to  them,  is  the 
religion  of  a  people  whose  forefathers  were  painted  savages  when  their 
forefathers  were— as  they  claim— civilized  and  cultured.  The  godless 
example  of  Europeans,  regarded  by  them  as  "  Christians,"  has  a  terribly 
demoralizing  effect  upon  them.  The  rapid  and  persistent  inflow  of  the  tide 
of  scepticism  from  the  West  has  submerged  the  minds  of  many.  Eager  to 
gain  a  university  degree  as  a  passport  to  Government  Service,  the  student 
easily  persuades  himself  that  he  cannot  afford  the  time  to  thoroughly 
enquire  into  the  things  that  the  missionary  commends  to  him  as  of  supreme 
importance.  The  cruel  grip  of  caste  holds  many  a  soul,  convinced  of  the 
Truth,  in  the  deadly  grip  of  error.  And  in  these  men,  as  in  all  sections 
of  our  fallen  race,  "  the  carnal  mind  is  enmity  against  Gon."  But  to 
them  also  is  the  Word  of  Salvation  sent,  and  one  who  has  taken  it  to  them 
can  testify  that  what  he  saw  of  the  power  of  the  Gospel  among  the  subtle- 
minded,  well-informed,  ambitious  students  and  educated  men  of  India, 
Hindus  and  Mohammedans,  made  it  a  fuller  message  of  grace  to  his  own 
soul.  This  conviction,  too,  wrought  deeply  in  that  worker's  mind,  should 
be  recorded  that  what  the  educated  Indian  needs,  not  less  than  his  illiterate 
peasant  neighbour,  is  that  the  Gospel  should  be  preached  to  him  ;  not  apolo 
gized  for,  not  studiously  vindicated,  but  authoritatively  and  in  love  declared 
as  the  message  of  (ion  to  the  heart  of  man  everywhere. 

Thus  are  our  missionaries  approaching  the  students  and  educated  men 
of  Behar,  and  their  hearts  are  gladdened  by  proofs  that  the  SPIRIT  is  applying 


"  NOT     UNTO     US." 

their  witness  to  the  conscience  and  soul  of  many 
of  them  in  power.  When  a  Hindu  or  a  Moham 
medan  is  convicted  of  sin,  his  religion  is  convicted 
to  his  deepest  consciousness,  of  insufficiency, 
and  the  opportunity  of  the  ambassador  of 
CHRIST  is  won  when  the  question  is  evoked, 
"  What  must  I  do  to  be  saved  ?  "  The  answer 
to  that-^question  surely  has  come  to  the  young 
man  who  encloses  in  a  letter  to  Mr.  Hicks  this 
prayer  which  he  uses  day  by  day  :— 

"  O  GOD  !  Thou  art  love.  Thou  lovest 
every  creature.  As  I  have  been  sinful,  unclean, 
sorrowful  and  helpless,  I  fall  upon  Your  pierced 
feet.  Oh,  do  not  cast  me  away,  have  mercy 
upon  me.  I  have  right  for  it  because  You  love 
us,  though  I  am  sinful  and  unclean. 

"  I  need  Him  Who  can  read  my  heart's  deep 
secrets,  can  know  all  my  sins,  and  how  I  am 
tempted,  and  can  lead  me  through  the  dark 
ness,  for  I  am  weak  and  helpless  like  a 
child. 

"  I  indeed  mourn  that  my  sin  has  departed  You  from  me,  and  has  brought 
the  blackest  darkness  for  my  soul.  Now  I  repent  on  the  cursed  sin  that 
hindered  me,  and  come  once  more  to  Thee  to  be  made  fully  whole." 

The  twenty-one  years'  service  of  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Harry  Guinness  has 
yielded  no  fairer  fruit  than  the  Behar  Mission  of  the  Union  at  the  head 
and  heart  of  which  GOD  has  placed  them.  And  gratitude  to  GOD 
for  all  their  work  of  faith  and  labour  of  love  could  not  more  fittingly 
express  itself  than  in  the  carrying  forward  with  ever-increasing  consecra 
tion  on  the  part  of  His  people  of  a  mission  already  so  signally  blessed 

R.  WRIGHT  HAY 


A  BRAHMAN   PRIEST. 


PART  VI. 


LIVING  LINKS 

WITH  THE 

REGIONS  BE/OND. 


The  Story  of  our  Children's  Homes. 


..    ________________ 

SOME  OF  THE  BAIRNS  OFF  FOR  A  COUNTRY  DRIVE. 


HERBERT  DODSON  ft  MACKENZIE  DODSONft  LEONIDAS  DODSON  H    AMY    DODSON 


ELLEN    DODSON 


MENAWALLBAUM 


BABY  MORGAN  THKODORE 


. 


GERTIE  HARVEY  U  DORA  FAiaMAN    44  GRETA  FA1R,MAN  il  ROBIN  GILCHRIST 


THE  CHILDREN  IN  THE  HOME  AT  SNARESBROOK  WITH  SISTER  MAY  AND   SISTER  FANNY. 


The  White  Baby. 


VEN  superficial  contact  with  missionary  work  reveals  the  fact  that 
the  child  problem  is  one  of  its  most  serious  difficulties.  On  the 
Congo,  for  instance,  the  white  baby  cannot  live  as  a  rule,  for  more 
than  two  years,  and  no  parent  is  well  advised  to  delay  sending 
the  little  one  home  for  much  more  than  twelve  months.  Even  if  the 
climate  is  salubrious,  as  it  is  in  many  other  parts  of  the  wide  mission  field, 
the  evils  of  surrounding  corruption  tend  almost  inevitably  to  soil  the  pure 
minds  of  the  little  ones,  and  leave  an  almost  ineffaceable  mark  on  child 
hood  and  youth. 

'  Then  missionaries  have  no  business  to  be  married,"  answers  some 
thoughtless  critic.  In  reply  one  need  only  say  that  those  who  know  most  of 
the  inner  realities  of  the  mission  field  hold  with  very  good  reason  the 
diametrically  opposite  view.  The  celibate  missionary  in  most  fields 
has  a  sadly  restricted  sphere  of  service.  Women  are  needed  to 
reach  the  women,  and  family  life  above  all  is  needed,  to  show  what  such 
life  should  be.  Often  enough  has  it  proved  true,  even  in  regard  to  Congo 
savages,  that  "  a  little  child  shall  lead  them."  It  was  not  until  a  white 
baby  arrived  on  the  Upper  Congo  that  the  native  women  would  believe 
that  the  missionary's  wife  belonged  to  the  same  order  of  creation  as  them 
selves,  and  it  was  only  when  the  proud  mother  could  show  the  greatest 
wonder  that  black  women  had  ever  conceived,  a  white  infant,  that  this 
delusion  was  destroyed,  and  a  bond  of  union  created  which  eventually 
led  to  the  knowledge  and  love  of  Him,  Who  for  us  became  the  Child  of 
Bethlehem.  No,  no,  this  negative,  restrictive,  celibate  solution  of  the 
problem  only  mocks  the  questioner  and  is  neither  practicable  nor  common 
sense  ! 

What,  then,  is  to  become  of  the  children,  when  in  many  cases  the  mis 
sionary  has  no  home  circle  of  near  relatives,  able  and  willing  to  care  for  the 
little  ones  ?  It  was  as  a  small  practical  contribution  towards  the  solution 
of  this  question  that  Mrs.  Harry  Guinness,  in  1895,  opened  a  Home  for 
Children  in  Addington  Road,  Bow.  The  four  little  ones  first  placed  under 
her  care  belonged  to  devoted  Congo  missionaries,  but  the  little  family  soon 


1 70 


NOT     UNTO     US." 


commenced  to  grow,  and  children  came  from  many  parts  of  the 
world.  From  the  year  the  Home  was  started  until  the  present  time, 
forty-two  children  have  been  cared  for  and  educated.  Of  these,  twenty- 
six  have  been  girls  and  sixteen  boys,  and  they  have  varied  in  age  from  six 
months  to  eighteen  years. 

The  length  of  time  spent  in  the  Home  by  each  child  has  depended  upon 
circumstances.  One  or  two  have  been  with  us  only  a  few  months,  and 
some  have  stayed  as  long  as  nine  years,  but  from  three  to  six  years  is  an 
average  period.  Fourteen  children  have  come  from  the  Congo,  five  from 
Angola,  three  from  North  Africa,  six  from  India  and  Assam,  five  from 
Jamaica,  and  five  from  South  America,  whilst  four  were  visitors  with  us 
under  special  circumstances,  going  in  due  time  to  South  Africa  and  Canada. 

The  year  1899  saw 

ANOTHER    DEVELOPMENT 

in  the  work.  The  increase  in  the  number  of  children  compelled  us  to  provide 
more  adequate  accommodation,  and  it  was  decided  to  remove  the  Home  to 
Snaresbrook,  a  pleasant  suburb  on  the  borders  of  Epping  Forest  and  yet 
within  easy  reach  of.  London.  "  Sister  May,"  or  "  Auntie  May,"  as  the 
children  affectionately  call  her,  who  took  charge  of  this  effort  in  1897,  is 
the  present  head  of  the  Home  at  "  Malvalli,"  Grove  Road,  Snaresbrook, 
and  many  a  missionary  has  a  heart  full  of  gratitude  for  the  tender  and 
loving  care  she  has  bestowed  upon  the  children  placed  in  her  charge.  She 
is  ably  assisted  by  "  Auntie  Fanny,"  who,  besides  superintending  the  chil 
dren's  lessons,  is  a  willing  helper  in  every  way  possible. 

I  have  often  had  the  pleasure  of  paying  a  visit  to  the  Home  at  Snares- 
brook.  It  is  a  large  and  substantially  built  house,  with  light,  airy  bedrooms, 
bright  and  cosy  sitting-rooms,  spacious  schoolroom  and  nursery  ;  a  lovely 
garden  with  lawn,  swing,  and  fowl-run,  in  fact,  everything  that 
will  conduce  to  the  comfort  and  health  of  the  children.  Although  at 
Snaresbrook,  as  in  other  suburbs,  the  builder  is  busy,  there  is  still  plenty 
of  open  country,  and  the  little  ones  have  the  benefit  of  pure,  bracing  air. 
A  glance  at  their  bright  and  merry  faces  convinces  one  that  each  and  all— 
from  the  tiny  tot  of  twelve  or  eighteen  months,  unable  to  walk  alone,  to 
the  eldest  girl  of  about  nine  or  ten— are  lovingly  looked  after.  Everything 
is  done  to  make  the  children  feel  happy.  Indeed,  the  impression  one  gets 
is  that  of  a  most  contented  family,  affectionately  '  mothered  " 
by  "  Auntie  May."  The  bairns  have  their  playthings  and  their  pets,  "  Pretty 
Polly"  being  a  great  favourite,  and  they  are  provided  with  a  pony  and 
trap,  in  which  all  the  youngsters  are  taken  for  an  outing  whenever  the 
weather  is  favourable. 


THE     WHITE     BABY.  171 

At  Snaresbrook  we  have  at  present  eleven  children,  seven  girls  and  four 
boys,  these  having  come  from  Angola,  the  Congo  and  Egypt.  One  little 
fellow,  who  entered  the  Home  when  he  was  only  five  months  old,  has  not 
seen  his  parents  for  more  than  seven  years.  His  father  is  expected  shortly 
on  furlough,  and  the  boy,  now  a  sturdy  little  chap,  is  all  excitement  at 
the  prospect  of  the  meeting.  "  What  is  my  daddy  like  ?  "  he  asks,  "  how 
tall  is  he  ?  "  What  a  joy  it  will  be  for  that  father  to  clasp  the  little 
fellow  again  to  his  arms,  and  how  he  will  thank  (ion  for  the  tender  care 
bestowed  on  his  child  all  these  years. 
Before  me  lies 

A  TOUCHING  LETTER 

from  a  mother  who,  for  CHRIST'S  sake,  is  labouring  in  Central  Africa. 
She  tells  how  her  little  baby  is  very  ill,  suffering  from  malarial  enlarge 
ment  of  the  spleen,  and  how,  unless  a  speedy  change  of  climate  can  be 
secured,  the  little  life  will  be  lost.  Is  there  room  in  the  Home  for  another 
white  baby  ?  A  trained  nurse  is  just  leaving  for  England,  and  she  is 
sending  the  little  one  in  her  charge,  in  the  hope  that  we  can  mid  a  place 
in  our  missionary  family. 

I  take  up  another  letter  addressed  to  Mrs.  Guinness,  this  time  from 
one  of  the  noblest  missionaries  on  the  Congo,  whose  ministry  has  been  widely 
owned  of  GOD  for  very  many  years.  He  writes: — "  Please  accept  our 
best  thanks  for  your  kind  letter  assenting  to  the  reception  in  the  Home 
of  both  our  little  ones.  1  can  assure  you  that  the  prospect  of  their  being 
left  in  an  Institution  under  your  superintendence  makes  the  task  much 
easier.  In  any  case,  it  will  be  hard  to  leave  them,  especially  for  the  mother. 
Yours  sincerely  and  gratefully." 

Another  letter  from  a  self-denying  missionary,  bears  the  Jamaica  post 
mark,  and  contains  warm  thanks  for  information  sent  concerning  the 
school  where  the  clever  daughter  has  been  doing  capitally.  "  We  hear 
very  frequently  from  Dora,  and  I  am  sure  that  you  will  feel  some  satisfac 
tion  in  the  tone  of  her  letters.  Every  letter,  without  exception,  has  con 
veyed  to  our  minds  that  she  is  perfectly  happy  in  the  Home.  I  can  assure 
you  that  her  mother  and  I  are  deeply  grateful  to  GOD  for  opening  the  way 
for  our  dear  child  to  be  so  lovingly  cared  for." 

Yet  another  Jamaican  minister  adds  : — "  I  cannot  express  to  you  the 
thankfulness  we  feel  for  having  our  daughter  with  you.  Our  hearts  abound 
in  gratitude." 

One  more  letter,  out  of  a  big  pile  from  which  I  might  quote,  is  headed 
with  strange  Arabic  letters,  and  hails  from  Egypt,  from  whence  one  of 
our  former  students,  a  successful  missionary  to  the  Mohammedan  popu- 


i72  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

lation,  writes  to  Mrs.  Guinness: — "We  left  our  children  behind  in  your 
care  with  very  restful  hearts  when  we  came  away,  for  we  knew,  and  had 
both  of  us  experienced,  so  much  of  your  kindness  in  past  years  that  we 
were  confident  all  would  be  well  with  them.  •  Many,  many  thanks  for 
all  the  care  you  exercise  over  them." 

For  several  years,  the  elder  children  had  to  travel  by  train  from  Snares- 
brook  to  Bow  every  day  in  order  to  attend  the  splendid  girls'  school  close 
by  Harley  House,  and  the  boys'  school  belonging  to  the  Coopers'  Company. 
The  former  is  one  of  the  finest  girls'  schools  in  London,  and  the  latter, 
now  being  rebuilt  at  a  cost  of  £30,000,  is  one  of  the  finest  institutions 
of  its  kind  in  the  metropolis.  The  difficulty,  however,  of  taking  the  children 
backwards  and  forwards  increased  as  time  went  on,  and  it  was  felt  that 
it  would  be  better  if  they  could  live  on  the  spot.  So  it  happened  that 
about  twelve  months  ago  a  small  house  was  placed  at  our  disposal  next 
to  our  headquarters  in  the  Bow  Road,  and  there,  in  Eagle  Lodge,  our  elder 
boys  and  girls — there  are  four  of  each  at  present — are  accommodated, 
so  as  to  be  within  a  stone's  throw  of  these  schools,  which  afford  the  advan 
tage  of  a  really  first-class  education. 

It  is  cause  for  much  thankfulness  that  the  health  of  the  children  has, 
on  the  whole,  been  good.  We  have  had  no  cases  of  very  serious  illness, 
and  this  is  the  more  remarkable  as  the  children  frequently  come  to  us  in 
a  delicate  state  of  health,  owing  to  climatic  conditions  and  other  causes, 
and  therefore  require  very  special  care. 

HOLIDAYS 

are,  of  course,  an  important  factor  in  the  life  of  a  child,  and 
"  Auntie  May"  has  a  delightful  cottage  by  the  sea,  where  she  frequently 
takes  her  charges  for  a  change.  We  are  also  glad  to  receive  holiday  in 
vitations  for  our  elder  girls  and  boys,  and  are  grateful  to  the  friends  who 
have  helped  us  in  this  way. 

Our  children  have  done  well  educationally.  Already  some  have  won 
scholarships  and  gained  very  good  reports.  The  eldest  girl  at  Eagle  Lodge 
is  looking  forward  to  a  useful  career  in  the  teaching  profession,  and  hopes 
to  enter  College  by  the  aid  of  a  County  Council  Scholarship.  The  boys, 
although  younger  and  smaller,  have  also  made  a  good  start  in  their  school 
course,  and  one  little  fellow  of  eight  came  out  top  of  his  class  last  term. 

The  cost  of  maintaining  our  Children's  Homes  causes  us  no  little  anxiety. 
The  parents,  of  course,  contribute  towards  the  maintenance  of  their  children, 
but  owmg  to  their  slender  resources  they  are  unable  to  meet  all  the  ex 
penses,  and  we  have  to  supplement  their  payments  by  other  gifts.  May 
we  ask  our  friends  to  consider  whether  they  could  not  help  us  by  becoming 


BERTHA 

HOLttS 

GERALDINE  HOLMS 


GERTRUDE  TURNER 


THE  Bovs  AND  GIRLS  AT  EAGLE  LODGE  WITH  MRS.   BALLINGEK. 


'74 


NOT     UNTO     US." 


r 


THE  COTTAGE  AT  MERSEA  WHERE  THE  CHILDREN  SPEND  THEIR  HOLIDAYS. 

financially  responsible  for  one  or  more  of  the  children  whilst  they  are  under 
our  care.  What  a  touching  dedication  once  appeared  in  a  book  written  by 
a  Congo  missionary.  It  was  addressed  to  two  friends,  who  "  by  welcoming 
our  daughter  Marjorie  into  their  hearts  and  home  have  lifted  the  only  cross 
of  our  missionary  life."  "The  only  cross" — that  was  a  great  deal  fora 
Congo  missionary  to  say,  but  we  believe  it  represents  the  weight  of  the 
burden  which  falls  upon  our  friends  when  they  are  compelled  to  part  with 
the  little  ones  they  dearly  love. 

A  pressing  need,  which  we  are  very  anxious  to  supply,  is  the  erection 
of  a  more  suitable  Home  near  Harley  House  for  these  elder  children.  Eagle 
Lodge  is  very  small  and  not  in  the  least  convenient,  and  we  have  been  longing 
l»r  the  time  when  the  means  will  be  forthcoming  to  enable  us  to  provide 
better  equipped  and  more  permanent  premises.  The  cost  of  a  new  Home 
would,  we  estimate,  be  about  £1,500,  and  we  lay  this  matter  before  our 
friends  in  the  hope  that  some  may  be  led  to  help  in  this  delightful  depart 
ment  of  service. 


"  Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  the  least  of  these     ye  ht\ve  done 
it  unto  Me."  H    G    G 


PART  VII. 


OUR  HELPERS  UNION. 


- 


THE  LANTERN,   THROUGH  WHICH  DISTANT  PLACES  AND  PEOPLES  ARE  BROUGHT  NEAR   ro 
OUR  HELPERS,  WITH  ITS  OPERATOR,  MR.  SAMBRIDGE. 


C  ) 


s 


Our  Helpers1   Union. 

HE  centennial  year  of  the  birth  of  modern  missions,  1892,  witnessed 
the  formation  of  a  league  of  loving  service  which  has,  through 
GOD'S  blessing,  been  destined  to  play  no  small  part  in  hastening 
the  coming  of  the  Kingdom.  As  stated  in  its  first  booklet,  "  Our 
Helpers  at  Work,"  the  Regions  Beyond  Helpers'  Union  sought  "  to  provide 
a  sphere  of  missionary  service  for  every  grade  of  talent  and  every  variety  of 
age,  position  and  influence,"  working  on  personal  and  collective  lines  on 
behalf  of  those  who  in  the  "  regions  beyond"  were  lying  in  the  darkness  and 
hopelessness  of  heathendom.  Entrance  into  its  fellowship  was  created  by 
a  common  obligation  to  study  and  pray  for  Foreign  Missions  ;  to  give  at 
least  Carey's  Weekly  Penny  ;  and  to  do  whatever  else  was  possible  to  take 
or  send  the  Gospel  to  every  creature  in  this  generation.  Its  ideal  was 

that  in  every  town  and  village  in  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  and  in  as 
many  as  the  LORD  might  open  across  the  seas,  there  should  exist  a  group  of 
men  and  women,  lads,  lasses,  and  children,  each  of  whom  should  work  in 
dividually  and  collectively  for  the  evangelization  of  the  World  in  this  genera 
tion."  It  was  proposed  that  "  they  should  be  banded  together  for  this 
service,  strengthening  each  others'  hands,  taking  up  different  duties  and 
responsibilities,  fitting  into  each  other,  inspiring  each  other,  and  collectively 
accomplishing,  by  the  grace  of  GOD,  results  impossible  to  isolated  effort." 

A  story  covering  more  than  fifteen  years  cannot  be  told  in  a  few  hundred 
words,  but  the  fact  that  more  than  £50,000  has  been  contributed  to  the 
Carey  Fund  alone  since  Christmas,  1892,  largely  through  the  weekly  pennies 
of  working  people,  is  sufficient  proof  that  this  organization  is  supplying  a 
link  in  the  great  missionary  life  chain. 

True,  our  ideal  has  not  been  fully  realized,  that  goes  without  saying, 
but  something  has  been  attempted  and  something  done. 

Foremost  amongst  the  objects  of  the  R.B.H.U.  stands  the  word  "  STUDY." 

1  purpose  by  the  help  of  GOD,  to  study  and  pray  for  Foreign  Missions." 
It  was  placed  even  before  prayer,  because  prayer,  to  be  effectual,  must  be 
intelligent  and  heartfelt,  and  those  who  have  only  a  superficial  knowledge 
of  the  conditions  and  needs  of  the  "  uttermost  parts  of  the  earth,"  which 
they  have  never  seen,  can  only  plead  for  those  destitute  lands  in  a  vague 


178  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

and  superficial  way.  To  foster  study,  then,  has  been  the  first  object  of 
our  work,  and  with  this  end  in  view,  the  entire  membership  is  supplied  with 
our  monthly  periodical,  "Regions  Beyond,"  never  more  attractive  and  worthy 
of  study  than  to-day.  By  the  use  of  the  Missionary  Libraries  established  at 
our  Headquarters  and  Branch  Offices,  and  in  some  local  centres,  and  by 
means  of  Missionary  Parliaments,  Study  Classes,  Reading  Circles,  Local 
Secretaries'  Evenings,  Missionary  Mail  Nights  and  Rallies  of  various  kinds, 
as  well  as  by  many  another  form  of  individual  and  combined  effort,  our 
Helpers  have  sought  to  maintain  a  constant  glow  of  enthusiasm  and  to  keep 
up  a  regular  supply  of 

MISSIONARY  FUEL. 

One  Local  Branch  during  its  twelve  years'  existence,  has  maintained  a 
weekly  meeting  for  prayer,  study,  etc.,  and  has  been  visited  by  nearly  150 
missionaries,  representing  every  part  of  the  great  world-field.  One  of  its 
able  Secretaries  says  :  '  This  missionary  organization  has  brought  into 
being  a  phase  of  Christian  service  which  did  not  exist  here  previous  to  its 
inception.  It  has  emphasized  the  duty  and  need  of  foreign  missionary 
work  ;  it  has  given  a  new  interest  in  prayer  for  foreign  missions  ;  it  has 
given  a  new  spirit  and  purpose  in  the  matter  of  Christian  giving,  and  it 
has  brought  us  into  contact  with  some  of  the  best  of  GOD'S  servants  in  all 
lands." 

No  wonder  that  such  a  Branch  has  been  enabled  to  raise  nearly  £1,500 
for  missionary  purposes,  the  greater  part  of  which  has  come  from  the  hard 
earnings  of  young  people  ;  nor  that  the  Branch  has  had  more  than  a  dozen 
members  in  training  for  missionary  service,  three  being  in  College  at  the 
present  time  and  several  in  the  Mission  Field. 

"  AND  PRAY."  Study  and  Prayer — the  two  are  intimately  linked, 
the  earnest  work  of  the  first  finding  its  natural  outlet  in  the  second. 
To  enable  the  members  of  our  Helpers'  Union  to  create  and  foster  that 
sympathy  and  sense  of  co-operation  which  are  essential  to  unity  in  prayer 
and  action,  our  Prayer  Roll,  with  its  division  into  four  groups  of  subjects, 
was  prepared,  and  day  by  day  throughout  each  succeeding  month  our  Helpers 
have,  by  a  golden  chain,  bound  the  whole  world  about  the  feet  of  GOD. 
In  response  to  these  fervent  prayers,  workers  in  lonely  fields  have  been 
strengthened  again  and  again,  and  our  members  have  had  the  joy  of  helping 
to  answer  their  own  petitions  by  assisting  to  prepare  and  send  forth  new 
workers  to  open  some  of  the  few  remaining  doors  of  the  world. 

"  To  GIVE  AT  LEAST  CAREY' s  WEEKLY  PENNY."  One  penny  a  week 
to  forward  the  evangelization  of  the  world  in  this  generation — the  minimum 
standard  of  giving  to  missionary  work  which  William  Carey  raised  in  1792. 


OUR     HELPERS'     UNION. 


179 


Each  member  in  joining  promised  to  give  or  collect  at  least  this  small  sum 
weekly  :  and  those  pennies  have  totalled  up  to  £50,000  in  fifteen  years,  a 
magnificent  amount  which  has  not  only  been  used  to  maintain  and  strengthen 
existing  work,  but  has  enabled  virgin  soil  to  be  sown  with  the  life  germinating 
seed,  until  already  in  parts  of  South  America  and  in  Behar,  as  well  as  in 
Congoland,  there  are  signs  of  abundant  harvest. 

Weekly  pennies,  now  totalling  £4,000  a  year,  have  a  story  to  tell — proving 
that  the  age  of  Christian  self-denial  has  not  yet  gone,  and  that  the  country 
is  full  of  brave  men  and  women,  who,  out  of  their  poverty,  are  closely  follow 
ing  the  footsteps  of  the  Master.  Our  letter  basket  could  tell  a  story  that 
would  fill  a  volume  of  entrancing  interest,  but  space  forbids  more  than  an 
extract  or  two  taken  haphazard  from  the  budget  at  hand. 

With  a  ten  shillings  postal  order  from  Aylesbury  is  sent  the  following 
touching  note  : — 

Owing  to  being  out  of  work  for  nearly  half  a  year,  our  tithe  purse  was 
nearly  empty  ;  illness  with  it,  and  no  prospect  of  work,  it  seemed  as  if  our 
offering  would  In-  almost  nil.  But  out  of  what  we  had  we  decided  to  give 
our  usual,  and  next  day  an  order  for  ten  shillings  was  sent  to  us  from  a 
friend,  altogether  unlocked  for,  as  her  brother  had  just  been  killed.  Wonder 
ful  are  His  ways  of  working.  So,  though  work  has  not  come,  we  joy  at 
being  able  to  give  at  this  season,  though  in  bed  ill." 

'  My  contribution,"  writes  a  helper  in  Hertfordshire,  "  includes  the 
gift  of  my  poor  bed-ridden  friend  who,  out  of  her  income  of  about  three 
shillings  and  sixpence  per  week  from  the  Parish,  has  given  me  two  shillings 
in  threepenny  pieces,  and  sixpence  wrapped  in  a  bit  of  paper  '  to  put  along 
with  yours  for  the  poor  heathens.'  ' 

"  Seven  shillings  of  the  enclosed,"  writes 
a  member  in  the  Kyles  of  Bute,  "  was  put 
into  the  box  at  the  request  of  my  dear 
brother,  who  before  going  to  be  with  CHRIST 
divided  his  little  all  for  the  LORD'S  cause. 
From  a  child  he  used  to  put  his  spare  pennies 
into  the  Carey  Box  and  watched  its  opening 
with  great  pleasure,  but  to-day  our  home  is 
empty — he  will  no  more  stand  by  us  while 
the  box  is  being  emptied." 

I  have  pleasure  in  sending  one  pound, 
ten  shillings,  my  half-yearly  contribution. 
I  always  put  away  two  shillings  on  the  1st 
of  the  month,  and  although  I  am  in  my  75th 
year,  I  sometimes  earn  a  little,  and  then,  as 
now,  I  am  able  to  send  a  little  more.  I  pray 
for  GOD'S  blessing  on  your  work  at  all  times 
and  in  all  places."  This  from  a  long-standing 
helper  at  Rayne,  Essex. 


THE  CAREY  Box  OF  THE  REGIONS  BEYOND 
HELPERS  UNION. 


i8o 


NOT     UNTO     US." 


We  might  go  on  to  tell  the  story  of 
Working  Parties  and  of  Sales  of  Work 
organized  by  our  younger  helpers  —  one 
such  held  in  a  private  house  for  five  years 
has  produced  over  £30,  and  another  organized 
by  a  Local  Branch,  contributes  a  substantial 
sum  towards  the  support  of  a  Congo 
missionary  ;  of  Trading  Pennies  ;  of  Services 
conducted  by  young  people  at  home  when 
unable  to  get  to  the  house  of  GOD,  by  which 
the  contents  of  the  Box  have  been  appre 
ciably  increased  ;  of  little  nephews  and 
nieces  from  three  to  seven  years  of  age,  who 
give  their  pennies  freely  "  because  they  want 
little  black  boys  and  girls  to  hear  about  JESUS,  Who  died  that  they  may 
go  to  Heaven  "  ;  of  extra  contributions  as  thank-offerings  for  money  re 
ceived  which  had  been  owing  a  long  time  ;  these,  and  many  other  ways 
and  means  devised  by  loving  hands  and  hearts,  which  though  unrecorded 
here,  are  not  unnoticed  by  Him  Who  sits  over  against  the  treasury. 

It  would  be  absolutely  unpardonable  if  we  were  not  to  add  in  conclusion, 
that  the  results  for  which  we  praise  GOD  to-day  would  never  have  been 
attained  but  for  the  splendid  voluntary  help  of  our  large  band  of  Local 
Presidents,  Vice-Presidents,  Secretaries,  Treasurers,  Leaders  of  Bands, 
Magazine  Distributors,  and  other  helpers,  with  whom  I  have  counted  it  a 
great  privilege  to  be  in  touch  for  so  many  years.  They  are  a  band  of  wise- 
hearted,  willing-hearted,  warm-hearted  men  and  women.  May  GOD 
greatly  multiply  their  number  in  the  years  to  come  ! 

Let  us  give  thanks  that  the  work  goes  on  ;  the  broader  river  nourished  by 
the  smaller  streams  ;  yet  all  part  of  those  Living  Waters  flowing  from  the 
Infinite  Source  through  simple  human  lives,  and  destined  to  turn  many  a 
desolate  land  into  the  very  garden  of  GOD. 

E.  A.  TALBOT. 


PART  VIII. 


GoD'5  FAITHFULNESS  AND 
OUR  NEED. 


b 


o 


0 


"  For  the  mountains  shall  depart  and  the  hills  be  removed,  but 
My  kindness  shall  not  depart  from  thee." 


—ISAIAH  liv.,  10. 


How  the  Money  Comes. 

9 

,ELIEVING  that  the  "  servant  is  worthy  of  his  hire,"  and  confiding 
in  the  faithfulness  of  Him  Who  bade  His  disciples  evangelize  the 
world,  the  Directors  of  the  Regions  Beyond  Missionary  Union  have 
adventured  on  this  large  and  increasing  enterprise,  assured  that 
every  need  shall  be  supplied.  In  reliance  on  the  all-sufficient  GOD, 
the  work  was  started  thirty-five  years  ago,  and  in  reliance  on  Him  it  still 
holds  on  its  way.  It  possesses  no  endowment  of  any  kind,  nor  has  it  any 
denomination  to  which  it  can  make  special  appeal.  It  seeks  to  make  known 
its  needs  to  GOD  in  daily  prayer,  and  to  disseminate  information  among  His 
people  in  the  hope  of  securing  their  prayerful  and  practical  support. 

The  illustrated  organ  of  the  Union,  REGIONS  BEYOND,  is  sent  freely  to  all 
subscribers  of  more  than  ten  shillings  per  annum  ;  and  occasional  letters 
containing  information  concerning  out-going  missionaries,  are  forwarded 
periodically  to  friends  and  donors,  who  are  thus  kept  in  immediate  touch 
with  the  progress  of  the  work. 

During  the  past  twenty-one  years  I  have  been  able  to  do  a  considerable 
amount  of  deputation  work ;  and  in  this  department  of  service  have  been 
splendidly  helped  by  our  missionaries  when  on  furlough. 

But  when  I  remember  the  utter  inadequacy  of  the  efforts  put  forth  to 
raise  the  very  considerable  income  required,  my  mind  is  irresistibly  driven 
back  on  the  faithfulness  of  GOD  as  the  ultimate  explanation  of  the  supply 
of  all  our  complex  needs.  Not  our  poor  faith,  but  His  faithfulness  would 
we  extol  !  When  two  or  three  thousand  pounds  met  the  necessities  of 
annual  expenditure,  this  sum  was  forthcoming  ;  and  when,  little  by  little, 
increasing  responsibilities  were  assumed,  the  corresponding  supply  was 

never  lacking. 

*  *  * 

How  often  during  past  years  have  we  been  sorely  pressed  for  funds,  only 
to  find,  that  in  His  own  good  time  and  way,  the  LORD  brought  deliverance. 
One  summer,  in  particular,  I  remember  when  we  were  needing  £3,500  in 
a  fortnight  to  meet  certain  heavy  Congo  liabilities.  After  fasting  and 
prayer  on  the  part  of  all  the  Harley  House  circle,  I  wrote  a  circular  letter 
entitled,  "  Shall  we  abandon  Central  Africa  ?  "  which  was  sent  to  our  friends 


Contributions  to 

The   Congo   Balolo  Mission, 

1887     1907. 


1887"  1689  1891  1893  1895  1897  IQ99  I9OI  1905  .905  I9O7 

1866  1690  1892  1694  Ifl96  I69S  1900  ,9O2  .904-  1906 

throughout  the  country.  The  response  was  most  cheering,  and  within  the 
fortnight  the  whole  sum  was  in  hand  !  With  such  memories  of  the  LORD'S 
goodness,  and  in  view  of  the  exceeding  great  and  precious  promises,  we  are 
strengthened  to  believe  that  He  will  continue  to  supply  all  our  need. 

During  recent  years,  the  rate  of  missionary  expansion  characterizing  the 
foreign  work  of  the  Union,  has  been  greater  than  the  existing  circle  of  helpers 


JL 
-6°°°     Con 
Pei 

itributions  to  the 
*u  and  Argentine 
iions,  1899—190: 

7. 

-5,000     ,/VYlSS 
-4,000 

-3,000 

-  1,000 

1999  I9OI  I9O3  I9O5  I9O7 

1300  1902  1904-  I9o6 

appeal  for  a  large  accession  to  the  ranks  of  our 


In  order  to  give  a  clear  concep 
tion  of  monies  contributed  during 
the  past  twenty-one  years,  the 
accompanying 

DIAGRAMS 
have  been  prepared  : — 

The  Congo  Columns  show  the 
small  amount  collected  in  1887 
and  1888  and  passed  over  to  the 
American  Baptist  Missionary 
Union  on  behalf  of  our  first  Congo 
Mission  adopted  by  them  in  1884. 

It  also  shows  the  start  of  the 
Congo  Balolo  Mission  in  1889  and 
the  rapidly  increasing  expenditure 
involved  in  the  early  days  when 
new  stations  were  being  opened 
up,  and  the  s.s.  "Pioneer"  was 
being  sent  out  and  reconstructed. 
Three  special  years,  1900  to  1902, 


185 

could  easily  maintain.  We 
have  badly  needed  a  corre 
sponding  increase  in  the 
number  of  donors  and  sub 
scribers,  but  our  deputation 
workers  have  been  too  few 
to  create  and  sustain  the 
requisite  interest.  In  order 
to  meet  this  condition  it  is 
proposed  that  I  give  myself 
more  largely  than  ever  to 
mission  and  missionary  work 
in  this  country,  and  in  the 
United  States  and  Canada; 
and  that  more  deputational 
work  should  be  undertaken 
by  our  missionaries. 

Meanwhile  we  venture  to 
helpers. 


£ 

-  -  6.000 


-  -  5  OOO 


Contributions  to  the 

Behar  Mission, 

1899-1907. 


-  -  2,000 


-  -  I.OOO 


1899  1901 

I9OO 


I9O5  1905  I9OT 

1902  I  9O4-  I9O6 


i86 


NOT     UNTO     US 


represent  the  extra  expenditure  involved  by  the  building,  transport  and 
reconstruction  of  the  s.s.  "  Livingstone."  It  will  be  observed  that  last 
year,  1907,  the  funds  were  very  low  and  this  it  is  which  has  emphasized  our 
existing  Congo  needs.  I  trust  this  fact  will  influence  friends  who  value  the 
devotion  of  Congo  missionaries  to  come  to  our  help  with  substantial  gifts. 
Humanly  speaking  my  absence  from  this  country  last  year  in  connection  with 
the  visit  to  Peru,  may  partly  account  for  the  diminution  in  the  Congo  funds. 

The  South  American  diagram  is  mainly  remarkable  for  the  sudden  develop 
ment  of  the  last  two  years.  The  latter  refers  to  our  taking  over  in  earnest 
the  Peru  Mission  on  the  termination  of  the  industrial  work  in  Cuzco.  This 
year  we  shall  be  involved  in  still  heavier  expenditure,  in  view  of  the 
proposed  acquisition  of  house  property  in  Cuzco,  and  of  the  Inca  farm 
"  Urco,"  which  has  just  been  purchased  at  the  cost  of  £3,400. 

India,  with  its  four  stations  and  eleven  missionaries,  has  been  climbing 
up  steadily,  and  1908  will  present  a  yet  higher  column  ! 


£ 
3,250  - 

1 

3,000  - 

2,750  - 

2,500  - 

2,250  - 

2,000  - 

1,750  - 

1,500  - 

1,250  - 

1,000  - 

750  - 

500- 
i  " 
250- 

Legacies  Received,  1887—1907. 


ABGENTINA22. 


5SIONABIES  OF  THE  REGIO? 


Ninety-one   Missionaries   working   in   connection   with   the   Regions 

(We  regret  that  the  group  does  not  include  a  portrait  of 


5  BEYOND  MISSIONARY  UNK 


eyond    Missionary    Union    in   Congoland,    Argentina,    Peru    and    India. 

\>i  STRANGE,  of  Argentina,  but  one  has  not  yet  been   received).  • 


IISLDI'A,  1 

;"j  :j  ~ 

p^^k 


1 87 


The  diagram  representing  the  total  expenditure 
of  the  Union  for  twenty-one  years,  indicates  in 
white  columns  the  outlay  upon  Colleges  and 
East  London  work.  On  the  whole  this  has  been 
fairly  steady,  with  the  exception  of  the  year 
1900,  when  we  built  the  Mackenzie  Memorial 
Medical  Mission  ;  but  it  shows  a  gradually 
lessening  amount  from  £13,000  to  £10,000,  which 
represents  our  highest  figure  during  the  last 
six  years.  The  latter  will  be  largely  exceeded 
during  1908,  owing  to  the  building  of  the  new 
wing  of  Harley  College,  but,  apart  from  such 
capital  expenditure,  the  advantageous  reduction 
due  to  the  abandonment  of  Cliff  College  is  clear. 
The  Annual  Income  through  legacies  has 
varied  considerably  as  indicated  in  the  special 
diagram,  but  the  average  is  about  £1,500. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  the  total  amount 
contributed  for  the  various  mission  fields,  and 
the  grand  total  from  1887,  £457,562,  and  from 
the  foundation  of  the  work  in  1873,  £588,728. 
Were  the  money  given  during  the  last  twenty- 
one  years  to  be  piled  up  in  a  single  column  of 
sovereigns,  it  would  actually  reach  more  than 
six  times  the  height  of  St.  Paul's  Cathedral. 
The  latter  measures  404  feet  to  the  cross  which 
surmounts  the  dome,  and  the  column  of 
sovereigns  would  be  about  2,500  feet  in  height. 
If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  sovereigns  were  to  be 
laid  on  the  ground  touching  each  other,  they 
would  form  a  line  of  gold  stretching  from 
Harley  House  past  Mile  End,  Whitechapel  and 
Aldgate  to  Leadenhall  Street,  Cornhill  and  the 
Bank  of  England,  and  from  the  latter  up  Cheap- 
side  to  St.  Paul's  Cathedral,  down  Ludgate  Hill 
and  up  the  Strand,  stretching  right  away 

past  Charing  Cross 
Station  into  Trafalgar 
Square,  a  distance  of 
six  miles. 


E. 


A.      B.     C.      D. 

A   Comparison. 

A.  B.  C.  &  D.  added  together,  represent  the   DRINK   BILL 

for  one  year,  £  1 68,000,000.     E.  represents  the  AGGREGATE 

INCOME  of  the  R.B.M.U.  in  twenty-one  years. 


188  "NOT     UNTO     US." 

And  yet  how  little  has  been  given  compared  to  what  is  spent  in  other 
directions  !  Our  nation  orders  a  battleship  costing  one  and  a  quarter 
millions  sterling,  with  very  little  ado  ;  and  yet  were  all  the  money  given  to 
this  Mission  during  the  whole  twenty-one  years  to  be  put  together,  it  would 
only  pay  for  about  one-third  of  such  a  vessel,  say  from  the  forward  turret 
to  the  bow7  ! 

And  if  we  represent  by  three-and-a-half  columns  the  total  annual  amount 
expended  by  our  nation  in  drink,  then  in  comparison  the  twenty-one  years' 
income  shrinks  into  absolute  insignificance,  as  will  be  seen  in  the  drink 
bill  diagram  !  If  only  the  money  thus  lavished  in  one  year  were  available 
for  foreign  missions,  the  whole  problem  of  the  world's  evangelization  would 
be  solved  right  away  as  far  as  the  financial  side  of  the  question  was  con 
cerned  ! 

*  *  * 

On  April  6th,  1908,  at  the  crowded  Thanksgiving  Service  held  in  the  Queen's 
Hall,  a  special 

THANKSGIVING  FUND 

was  opened,  which  will  not  close,  we  trust, before  £10,000  has  been  subscribed 
for  its  special  purposes.  On  Carey's  principle,  based  on  the  warrantable 
audacity  of  faith,  we  desire  to 

"  Expect  great  things  from  GOD,"  and  to 
"  Attempt  great  things  for  GOD." 

The  following  resolution  was  unanimously  adopted  by  the  crowded, 
enthusiastic  gathering  :— 

"  In  view  of  the  mercies  of  GOD  granted  during  the  past  twenty-one 
years  to  the  Regions  Beyond  Missionary  Union,  and  of  the  open  doors 
for  effectual  service  vouchsafed  on  the  Congo,  in  India,  Argentina,  and 
Peru,  and  in  consideration  of  the  urgent  need  for  building  extension  at  home 
and  in  the  foreign  fields  as  indicated  in  the  Report  of  the  Acting  Director, 
this  Meeting  of  the  London  friends  and  helpers  of  the  work  desires  in  every 
way  to  strengthen  the  hands  of  the  Directors  of  the  Union,  and  heartily 
commends  to  the  liberality  of  Christian  people  of  every  denomination  the 
Thanksgiving  Fund  to  be  inaugurated  at  this  Meeting." 

It  is  proposed  to  allocate  the  Thanksgiving  Fund  as  follows  : — 
£5,000  to  the  Home  section  of  the  work,  and 
£5,000  to  the  Foreign  Missions,  and  to  the  General  Funds  of  the  Union. 

With  regard  to  the  Home  expenditure,  we  propose  to  make  an  effort  to 
-purchase  the  freehold  of  the  property  at  Harley  House.  We  have  seen  the 
solicitors  of  our  landlord,  Lord  Tredegar,  and  there  seems  no  reason  to 
doubt  that  the  land  can  be  secured  at  a  reasonable  figure.  If  £3,000 


HOW  THE  MONEY  COMBS  189 

were  paid  down,  the  remaining  sum  has  been  already  offered  on  four  per  cent, 
mortgage,  and  the  interest  on  the  latter,  as  compared  to  the  present  rental, 
would  effect  an  annual  saving  of  about  £90.  As  the  lease  runs  on  for  another 
65  years,  it  is  clear  that  the  total  saving  throughout  this  period  would  be 
considerable,  and,  in  fact,  would  amount  to  £5,850.  We  have  taken  advice 
on  the  subject  of  the  advisability  of  this  purchase,  with  the  result  that 
the  step  is  urged  upon  us,  and  one  noble  friend  of  the  work  has  promised 
£1,000  if  we  can  secure  two  others  to  do  the  same. 

COLLEGE  WING. 

At  last  we  have  been  enabled  to  commence  the  new  wing  of  the  College, 
through  the  liberality  of  one  of  our  oldest  donors,  who  has  given  £2,000 
for  this  purpose.  The  builders  promise  to  finish  the  structure  by  next 
October,  in  time  for  the  new  session.  The  new  wing  will  be  135  feet  in 
length,  part  of  which  will  be  hidden  behind  the  existing  college,  but  the 
larger  portion  of  which  will  project  at  right  angles  to  the  old  building,  right 
across  the  garden.  Our  picture  gives  a  good  idea  of  the  perspective  of  the 
new  building,  the  foundation  stones  of  which  were  laid  on  the  occasion 
of  the  Re-union  of  the  old  Harley  students,  on  May  the  first.  The  wing 
will  contain  a  fine  Library,  Common  Room,  and  two  Class  Rooms,  all  similar 
in  size  (31  feet  by  20  feet  by  13  feet).  Above  these  are  seven  bedrooms, 
and  behind  the  old  College  are  the  new  bath-rooms,  boot  and  cloak  rooms, 
heating  apparatus,  etc.  By  these  alterations  we  shall  gain  seven  bedrooms 
in  the  old  building,  rooms  which  for  some  years  have  been  used  for 
other  purposes.  This  total  gain  of  fourteen  bedrooms  will  enable  us  to  do 
without  the  extra  house  now  employed  for  overflow  purposes,  at  a  cost  of 
£70  per  annum. 

With  regard  to  the  Foreign  expenditure,  we  hope  to  give  £1,000  to  the 
Congo,  £1,000  to  Peru,  £1,000  to  Argentina,  and  £2,000  to  the  General 

Funds  of  the  Union,  which  are  just  now  sadly  depleted. 

*  *  * 

Two  long  pages,  closely  filled  with  names,  lie  before  me  on  the  table, 
each  line  of  which  bears  its  separate  evidence  of  the  ceaseless  care  of  GOD. 
These  are  the  names  of  liberal  donors,  whose  gifts  were  known  on  high, 
whither  they  have  entered  in  to  receive  their  reward. 

As  my  eye  runs  down  the  page  I  notice  the  name  of  one  of  the  earliest 
friends  of  the  work,  Mr.  Berger,  of  Cannes,  whose  gifts  amounted  to  over 
£11,300,— of  Mr.  Coghill,  of  Hastings,  who  contributed  £6,420,— of  Samuel 
Morley,  who  gave  us  £3,425,— and  of  sainted  Emily  Hart,  who  subscribed 
£4,925.  These,  and  others,  many  others— nearly  70  in  all— have  now 
passed  away.  But  the  LORD'S  mercy,  through  His  people,  has  never 


failed.  He  has  been  our  El 
Shaddai,  our  all-sufficient  God, 
to  Whom  be  all  the  praise  ! 


-     400O 


-    3750 


350O 


If  each  reader  of  these  pages 
will  do  something  to  help  the 
cause,  our  hands  will  be  won- " ' 
drously  strengthened !  Become 
a  subscriber;  join  the  Helpers'  -j-  2750 
Union;    study  "Regions 
Beyond  "  ;  pray  for  us  often  ;  -j-  2500 
tell  others  of  the  work  ! 


Don't  say  that  you  are  doing 


&    Regions  Beyond   Helpers1 
Union,  Annual  Donations , 
1893-1907. 


2250 


--    I.75O 


--    1.5  OO 


as  much  as  you  can  already  ! 
Of  course  you  can  do  more. 
This  may  involve  self-denial, 
but  is  not  this  precisely  the 
path  that  CHRIST  would  have  us 
tread  ?  Don't  say  that  your 
sympathies  are  limited  to  your 
own  denomination.  GOD  for 
bid  !  Surely  we  ought  most  +  '2  so 
earnestly  to  help  those  inter 
denominational  movements  4-  1000 
which  contribute  to  the  good 
of  all — the  Bible  Society  which 
has  supplied  the  Word  of  GOD 
to  every  land,  and  our  own 
Society  which  has  given  over 
thirteen  hundred  men  and 
women  to  a  multitude  of 
missions  the  world  over.  At  the 
Queen's  Hall  meeting,  speaking 
as  representing  the  Bible 
Society,  the  Rev.  J.  H.  Ritson  said  that  whereas  every  Society  was  a  debtor 
to  his  organization;  the  latter  was  a  debtor  to  the  Regions  Beyond  Missionary 
Union,  as  ten  per  cent,  of  its  European  agents  had  been  trained  at  Harley 
College.  *  *  * 

It  may  be  that  this  book  shall  fall  into  the  hands  of  some  who  by  the  LORD 
have  been  called  to  the  stewardship  of  wealth.     May  we  urge  upon  such 


750 


--     500 


--    25O 


I89J  1895  1897  1699  I9OI  I9OS 

1694  1696  '696  I9OO  1902  IPO* 


90S  1907- 

1906 


HOW  THE  MONEY  COMES.  igi 

the  duty  and  privilege  of  large  giving.  I  remember  the  case  of  one  noble 
donor,  who  some  years  ago  was  struck  by  the  fact  that  never  yet  had 
he  given  so  as  to  feel  it.  True  he  had  been  generous  ,but  never  had  he  been 
sensibly  the  poorer  through  his  gifts.  This  discovery  led  not  only  to  a  new 
and  remarkable  liberality,  but  to  a  reconsideration  of  the  whole  scheme  of 
his  personal  expenditure,  which  resulted  in  a  career  of  devotion  that  has 
seldom  been  surpassed. 

If  some  reader  is  led  to  consecrate  his  possessions  in  some  fuller  sense 
to  the  service  of  the  Master,  how  gladly  would  we  indicate  investments  for 
Eternity,  bearing  an  interest  unknown  on  the  Stock  Exchange  or  Wall  Street. 
Missionary  Service  demands  not  the  mere  driblets  of  our  superfluity,  but  the 
serious  giving  of  our  deepest  devotion. 

Foreign  Missions,  more  than  any  other  form  of  obedience  to  CHRIST, 
need  the  aid  of  consecrated  wealth,  and  why  should  unlimited  thousands 
be  poured  into  the  coffers  of  our  Universities,  so  that  some  colleges  in 
Great  Britain  and  America  are  almost  gorged  with  wealth,  while  a  Missionary 
Institution,  which  for  more  than  a  generation  has  done  noble  world- wide 
service,  is  unable  through  lack  of  funds  to  carry  out  sorely-needed 
building  alterations  and  additions  ? 

We  can  assure  our  friends  that  any  sums  committed  to  us  shall  be  effec 
tively  and  economically  expended,  either  in  preparing  the  missionary  for 
his  life  work, — and  he  must  be  prepared — or  in  opening  up  new  fields  to 
missionary  activity,  and  carrying  the  joyful  news  to  those  who  never  yet 
have  heard. 

May  we  earnestly  remind  our  friends  how  much  they  might  help  the  work 
by  remembering  the  R.B.M.U.  in  their  Will.  In  order  to  make  this  easy 
we  append,  on  the  next  page,  the  approved  legal  form  of  words,  the  employ 
ment  of  which  will  abundantly  suffice  to  indicate  the  desire  of  the  testator. 

We  would  that  we  could  share  the  prayer-responsibility  for  the  whole 
work  with  an  ever- widening  circle  of  friends.  Here  is  our  greatest  need. 
Only  as  the  work  is  rooted  and  grounded  in  prayer  can  it  prosper  and  have 
good  success.  How  feebly  do  we  recognize  the  dependence  of  mission 
aries  in  the  field  upon  Christians  at  home,  in  relation  to  spiritual  as  well 
as  temporal  supplies.  As  the  diver  is  dependent  upon  the  faithful  vigilance 
of  those  who  pump  down  the  fresh  air,  without  which  he  could  only  survive 
a  few  moments  in  the  depths  whither  his  duty  calls  him,  so  dependent 
are  those  who  have  gone  down  into  the  depths  of  heathendom  upon  the 
prayers,  sympathy  and  support  of  Christians  who  stay  at  home. 

H.G.G. 


Form  of  Bequest  to  the  R.B.M.U. 


%  give  and  bequeath  to  the  REGIONS  BEYOND  MISSIONARY 

UNION,   Incorporated  1903,    the  Registered  Office  of  which  is 
Harley  House,  Bow,  London,  E.,  the  sum  of 
pounds  sterling,  free  of  duty,  to  be  paid  to  the  Treasurer  for 
the  time  being,  whose  receipt  shall  be  a   sufficient  discharge 
for  the  same. 

[Any  legacy  thus  left  without  further  specification  will  be  used  in  connection 
with  the  Training,  Evangelistic,  and  Medical  Mission  work  at  home,  or  the  Foreign 
Missions  of  the  Union,  as  may  be  deemed  expedient.] 


Should  friends,  however,  wish  to  leave  money  to  some  special  department  of 
the  Union,  they  may  adopt  one  or  more  of  the  following  clauses  : — 

/Missionary  Training  Colleges,  or   the 

31  Congo  Balolo  Mission,  or  the 

3)  give  and  bequeath  to  the  \ 

South  American  work,  or  the 

vBehar  (Bengal  Presidency)  Mission 
in  connection  with  the  REGIONS  BEYOND  MISSIONARY 

UNION,    Incorporated    1903,    the    Registered    Office    of    which    is 

Harley  House,  Bow,  London,  E.,  the  sum  of  pounds 

sterling,  free    of  duty,   to    be  paid   to   the   Treasurer   for    the    time 
being,  whose  receipt  shall  be  a  sufficient  discharge  for  the  same. 


%*  In  the  case  of  legacies  already  bequeathed  to  the  East  London  Institute 
for  Home  and  Foreign  Missions,  or  the  Congo  Balolo  Mission,  no  alteration  will  he 
needed  on  account  of  the  subsequent  change  of  name  and  incorporation. 


How  to  Help  the  R.B.M.U. 


1.  Join  the  Regions  Beyond  Helpers'   Union,  which  involves 

a  promise  to  pray  for  the  work  and  to  give  at  least  Carey's 
weekly  penny.  To  help  them  to  do  this,  memhers  receive 
a  copy  of  "  REGIONS  BEYOND,"  the  monthly  magazine  of 
the  R.B.M.U. 

2.  Become    responsible    for    the    support    of    a    substitute  in  the 

Foreign   Field. 

3.  Undertake  the  support  of  a  Native  Teacher  or  Evangelist 

on  the  Congo,  in  Argentina,  Peru,  or  Behar. 

4.  Take  a  "Do   Without"    Box,  and  collect  for:— 

(a)  The  General  Funds  of  the  R.B.M.U. 

(b)  The  support  of  an  individual  missionary. 

(c)  The  Congo  Balolo  Mission. 

(d)  The  Argentine  Mission. 

(e)  The  Peru  Mission. 
(/)  The  Behar  Mission. 

(#)    The  Siwan  and  Motihari  Orphanages. 

(/i)    The  Training  Work  at   Harley   College   or  Doric 
Lodge. 

5.  Arrange  for  a   Drawing-room  or  Public  Meeting  in  your  neigh 

bourhood,  to  be  addressed  by   R.B.M.U.  Workers. 

6.  Circulate  the    Literature    published    at    Harley    House    amongst 

those  who  have  never  seen  it. 


Further  information  concerning  any  of  these  branches  of  work 
will  be  gladly  supplied  by  the  General  Secretary, 
THE  REV.  W.  WILKES, 

Harley   House,  Bow,  London,  E. 


The  Regions  Beyond  Missionary  Union 

(INCORPORATED  1903). 
AN  ORGANIZATION  FOR 

(1).  The  conduct  and  support  of  Evangelical  Training  Institutions  in  which 
suitable  men  and  women  from  any  nation  or  denomination  are  prepared  for  Foreign 
Missionary  service. 

(2).  The  advocacy  by  pen,  platform,  and  pulpit,  of  the  claims  of  GOD  upon  the 
life  of  every  Christian,  especially  in  view  of  the  condition  of  the  heathen  world,  and 
of  the  Great  Commission  of  our  ascended  LORD  JESUS  CHRIST. 

(3).  Practical  Missionary  effort  in  many  lands,  as  GOD  may  open  the  way  with 
special  reference  to  the  regions  beyond  those  already  evangelized. 

Central  Offices: 
HARLEY  HOUSE,  BOW,  LONDON,  E. 

SCOTLAND— GROVE  STREET  INSTITUTE,  GLASGOW. 

AUSTRALASIA— 34,  QUEEN  STREET,  MELBOURNE. 

CANADA— 210,  SEATON  STREET.  TORONTO. 

Founder: 

THE  REV.  H.  GRATTAN  GUINNESS,  D.D.,  F.R.A.S. 


Hon.  Directors : 
THE  REV.  GEORGE  HANSON,  M.A.,  D.D. 

THE  REV.  R.  WRIGHT  HAY. 
THE  REV.  J.  STUART  HOLDEN,  M.A. 

SIR  ANDREW  WINGATE,  K.C.I.E. 

THEODORE  HOWARD,  ESQ.  (Hon.  Treasurer). 

J.  CHRISTIE  REID,  ESQ.  (Hon.  Deputy  Treasurer). 

Hon.  Secretary:  MRS.  H.  GRATTAN  GUINNESS. 
Acting  Director:  H.  GRATTAN  GUINNESS,  M.D.,  F.R.G.S. 


Auditors:  MESSRS.  ARTHUR  J.  HILL,  VELLACOTT  &  Co. 
Solicitors:  MESSRS.  NISBET,  DAW  &  N1SBET. 


THE  DIRECTORS. 

H.  B.  BILBROUGH,  ESQ. 

RICHARD  CORY,  ESQ.,  J.P. 

W.  McADAM  ECCLES,  ESQ.,  M.S.,  F.R.C.S. 

MRS,  H.  GRATTAN  GUINNESS. 

THE  REV.  D.  HAVES. 


Home  Council  HI  the  Congo  Balolo  Mission : 

G.  E.  HOLHAN.  ESQ. 

JAMES  IRVINE,  ESQ..  F.R.G.S. 

PRINCIPAL  FORBES  JACKSON,  M.A. 

THE  REV.  A.  J.  PALMER. 

J.  CHRISTIE  REID.  ESQ. 

CHAS.  HUDSON  TAYLOR,  ESQ. 


Home  Council  of  the  South  American  and  Behar  Missions: 


THE  DIRECTORS. 

JOHN  BOARDMAN,  ESQ. 

E.  Fox  BUTLIN,  ESQ. 

MRS.  DAWBARN. 

A.  T.  DENCE,  ESQ. 

MRS.  H.  GRATTAN  GUINNESS. 


THE  REV.  PROF. 

WALTER  HACKNEY,  M.A. 
THE  REV.  G.  D.  HOOPER. 
PRINCIPAL  FORBES  JACKSON, 
THE  REV.  F.  H.  KINO.      [M.A. 
MRS.  NEWELL. 


WILLIAM  MCCAI.L,  ESQ. 

THE  REV.  E.  W.  MATTHEWS. 

DR.  ROCHA. 

F.  W.  SCHOFIELD,  ESQ. 

C.  HAY  WALKER,  ESQ. 

THE  REV.  SAMUEL  WILKINSON. 


The  R.B.M.U.  is  carried  forward  in  dependence  upon  GOD,  and  by  means 
of  the  free-will  offerings  of  His  people. 

Cheques,  Post  Office  Orders,  etc.,  should  be  made  payable  to  H.  GRATTAN 
GUINNESS,  M.D.,  and  crossed  "  LONDON  AND  SOUTH  WESTERN  BANK,  Bow 
BRANCH."  Every  gift  is  acknowledged  by  a  numbered  receipt,  so  that  whereas 
names  are  not  mentioned,  any  donor  can  recognise  his  receipt  number  in  the 
list  of  donations  published  in  "  Regions  Beyond,"  the  monthly  organ  of  the  Union. 
All  communications  should  be  addressed  to 

H.  GRATTAN  GUINNESS,  M.D., 

Harley  House,  Bow,  London,  E. 

Telegraphic  Address  :  "  REGIONS,  LONDON." 


PRINTED  BY  P.  B.  BEDDOW.  "PRESS"  WORKS,  ANERLEY,  S.E. 


CAViN  . 

KMOX  COLLEGE 


