®ur  Ibdpccs 

at  Moth. 


STATEMENT  OF  THE  ORGANIZATION 


TPE  iEQ10PS  l£Y©iNE> 


*  - y  helpers*  yp 

^  CONNECTED  WITH 

The  East  London  Institute  for  Home  and  Foreign  Missions, 


/ 


EY 


Mo  QMrMN  mmm 


AND 


Eo  mmm 


WITH  ILLUSTRATIONS. 


jFoniimt : 

R.B.H.U.  Publication  Department, 
Harley  House,  Bow,  E. 


and  THE 


Congo=Balolo  Mission. 


ARRAJD 


FLE>0 


London : 

C.  E.  ROBERTS  &  Co.,  Printers, 
85  &  86,  Chiswell  Street,  E.C. 


Chapter  I. 

11 


»> 


M 


III. 


») 


IV. 


»» 


V. 


„  VI. 

„  VII 


I.  •••  ■'  '■■■*■  F 


PAGE 

3 


5 

5 


The  Greatest  Task  of  To = day 

Harley  House  and  its  History 

Necessity  of  Missionary  Training 
Founding  of  the  First  English 
Interdenominational  Training 
Home  for  Missionary  Volun¬ 
teers  . 

Harley  House  and  Cliff  College 
Doric  Lodge  and  Home  Missions 
Nursing  and  Medical  Training  ...  < 

The  Congo-Balolo  Mission 
Mode  of  Support 

The  Regions  Beyond  Helpers’  Union  ;  its 
Organization  and  Methods  of  Personal 

Work . . 

FOUNDING  OF  THE  UNION.  ITS  METHODS 
i*  Study  (p.  14).  2.  Prayer  (p.  15).  3 


6 

8 

8 

10 


(p.  10). 
(p.  11). 


12 


•* 


13 

Giving  (p.  19). 


PAGE 

26 

28 

29 


4.  Individual  Effort  (p.  21).  5.  Extension  (p.  23). 

6.  Self-denial  (p.  24). 

How  to  Organize  and  Work  a  Branch  of  the  R.B.H.U. 

CONSTITUTION  OF  A  BRANCH 

•  •••  •  •  •  •••  ••• 
DUTIES  OF  BRANCH  OFFICERS . 

President  (p.  29).  Secretary  (p.  29).  Treasurer  (p.  30). 
“Carey  Fund,”  “Local  Fund”  (p.  30).  Committee  (p.  31). 

Rules  of  Committee  (p.  31). 

R.B.H.U.  Bands.  How  to  Organize  the  Bands.  Band  Rules,  32-33 

The  Berean  Band  (p.  33).  The  Martha  Band  (p.  39).  ~ 

The  Phebe  Band  (p.  35).  The  Lois  Band  (p.  40). 

he  Stephen  Band  (p.  36).  The  Timothy  Band  (p.  41). 

The  Silas  Band  (p.  37).  The  Persis  Band  (p.  42). 

he  Barnabas  Band  (p.  38).  The  Macedon  Band  (p.  43). 

Individual  Duties  of  the  Macedon  Band  (p.  44) 

Corporate  Duties  „  /„  .  X 

”  „  ,,  (p.  45). 


}) 


J) 


R.B.H.U.  Branch  Meetings 

Branch  Rules  (p.  49).  R.B.H.U.  Loan  Department  (p.  5o). 

The  Message  to  Archippus.  An  open  Letter  to  Ministers, 
astors,  Association  Secretaries,  and  leading  Christian  Workers 


46 


5i 


IF,  knowing  that  a  thousand  millions  of  our  fellow-creatures  are  still  lost  in 
heathenism,  we  make  no  effort  for  their  enlightenment,  how  do  we  show  our 
devoted  attachment  to  JESUS  CHRIST  our  Lord? 

We  devoted  to  Him !  What,  even  of  ours,  is  devoted  to  Him  ?  Is  even  a  tithe 
of  our  time,  a  tithe  of  our  substance,  devoted  to  Him?  Have  we  surrendered  to 
Him  for  this  service  even  one  child  of  our  family,  or  one  year  of  our  lives  ? 
No !  .  .  .  but  we  give  an  annual  subscription  to  some  missionary  society. 

Ah,  friends,  gifts  that  cost  us  no  personal  self-denial  are  no  proofs  of 
devotedness.  CHRIST’S  devotedness  to  our  interests  involved  Him  in  suffering,  loss, 
and  shame,  because  of  the  state  in  which  we  were.  And  devotedness  to  Him  must 
similarly  involve  suffering,  loss,  and  shame  to  us,  because  of  the  state  of  those  for 
whom  He  died.  Consecration  to  JESUS,  in  a  world  tenanted  by  a  thousand  millions 
of  heathen,  means  stern  labour  and  toil,  means  constant  self-denial  and  self- 
sacrifice,  means  unwearied  well-doing  even  unto  death. 

Judged  by  this  test,  how  many  faithful,  loving,  and  devoted  followers  has 
JESUS  CHRIST  ?  Are  we  of  their  number? 

[ the  PRESENT  TEST.  Mrs.  H.  Grattan  Guinness.] 


“  1  gave  my  life  for  thee ; 

My  j’recious  blood  I  shed , 

That  thou  might’ st  ransomed  be, 

And  quickened  from  the  dead > 
1  gave  My  life  for  thee : 

What  hast  thou  done  for  Me?” 


CHAPTER  I 


WE  are  living  in  the  world’s  great 
Missionary  Age ;  and  he  who  fails 
to  recognise  this  glorious  fact 
ignores  one  of  the  most  remarkable 
signs  of  the  times.  Upon  our  generation  the  providence  of  God  has  laid  the  evangelization 
of  the  world,  with  an  urgency,  weight,  and  definiteness  that  no  previous  generation  of  Christians 
has  known.  Empires  over  which  millenniums  of  paganism  have  passed,  countries  which  for 
centuries  have  been  shut  against  the  Gospel,  have  in  the  last  few  years  opened  their  gates  to 
the  messengers  of  God.  India’s  280,000,000,  the  40,000,000  of  Japan,  the  300,000,000  of 
China,  the  37,000,000  of  South  America,  the  200,000,000  of  Africa,  and  uncounted  multitudes 
in  the  Mohammedan  world,  have  been  brought  by  providential  changes  in  the  last  half  century, 
for  the  first  time  in  their  history,  within  reach  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 

We  have  prayed  for  the  opening  of  the  world,  and  to-day  the  strange  appeal  comes  from 
abroad  : — 

Do  not  pray  for  more  open  doors  ;  we  cannot  enter  even  half  of  those  already  here.” 


U 


The  Greatest 

Task 
of 

To-day 


4 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


We  have  prayed  for  blessing,  and  Pentecostal  showers  have  fallen  upon  many  a  heathen  land. 

We  have  prayed  for  volunteers,  and  God  has  sent  so  many  that  the  Societies  are  bewildered 
by  their  number  and  unable  to  accept  their  services. 

Unable.  And  why  ? 

The  reason  is  not  far  to  seek.  We  have  not  yet  all  realized  that  this  great  work  is  ours. 
We  have  not  consecrated  our  lives  to  its  demands.  We  have  not  tried  to  do  it  in  the  mighty 
power  of  God. 

Is  it  too  much  to  say  that  the  majority  of  Christians  have  not  begun  to  realize  their  duty  to 
the  world  ? 

Can  we  be  said  to  have  fulfilled  our  duty  until  we  have  done  something  definite  and 
continued,  self-sacrificing  and  prayerful  ;  something  costly  to  us,  and  adequate,  in  God’s  sight, 
both  to  the  measure  of  our  capacity  and  the  needs  of  heathendom  ? 

The  whole  wide  world  is  open  :  the  volunteers  are  here  :  the  foundation-laying  of  the  first 
half  of  our  century  of  Missions  is  done  :  the  fulness  of  Divine  blessing  is  within  our  reach  : 
and  yet  1,000  millions  have  never  heard  of  Christ. 

Yet  when  every  Christian  counts  it  his  supreme  duty  and  privilege  to  give  the  knowledge 
of  his  Lord  to  every  living  soul,  and  actually  does  this,  as  far  as  in  him  lies,  our  Saviour’s  last 
command  will  be  fulfilled. 


Among  other  missionary  organizations,  the  Regions  Beyond  Helpers’  Union  has  recently 
been  formed  to  help  Christians,  and  especially  young  Christians,  in  every  denomination  and 
section  of  the  Church  to  do  their  part,  individually  and  collectively,  in  this 

The  Greatest  Task  of  To=day. 

The  object  of  this  pamphlet  is  to  explain  the  working  of  that  Union.  But  in  order  to  do  this, 
we  must  briefly  refer  our  readers  to  the  story  of  the  parent  work,  from  which,  in  1892,  the 
“  R.B.H.U.”  sprang. 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


S 


CHAPTER  II. 


“Harley  House”  &  its  History. 

IiN  the  eai  ly  days  of  the  China  Inland  Mission,  twenty-five  years  ago,  among  the 
volunteers  who  offered  to  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor  were  two  whom  he  advised  to  stay  at 
home,  thinking  that  they  could  best  serve  heathendom  by  their  influence  on  this 
side  of  the  sea  ;  and  one,  who  before  his  medical  course  was  complete,  had,  as  he  says,  “  found  his 
Chinese  among  London’s  waifs  and  strays,”  and  devoted  his  life-work  to  their  service.  Events  have 
proved  the  wisdom  of  these  decisions.  Dr.  Barnardo  has  probably  done  more  for  the  Kingdom 
of  Christ  here  than  he  would  have  done  had  his  early  hope  of  work  in  China  been  realized. 
Nearly  26,000  orphans  and  waif  children  have  passed  through  his  hands,  and  some  of  these 
young  people  are  now  serving  God  in  China.  And  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Grattan  Guinness,  instead  of 
going  themselves,  have  been  used  of  God  to  train  and  send  to  China  alone  over  100  missionaries, 
besides  600  or  700  to  other  parts  of  the  world. 

Profoundly  realizing  the  needs  of  heathendom,  in  which,  in  spite  of  all  existing  missionary 
agencies,  over  eight  hundred  millions  have  never  heard  of  Christ,  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Guinness  were 
led  to  found  an  Interdenominational  Missionary  Institution,  through  which  earnest  young 
Christians  of  the  self-supporting  class,  spiritually  fitted  for  missionary  work,  but  disqualified  by 
lack  of  education  and  practical  training,  might  be  prepared  Biblically,  Intellectually,  and 
Practically,  and  sent  abroad  when  trained.  "  J ' 


Necessity  of  Missionary  Training. 

They  held  that  before  men  are  sent  forth  to  do  missionary  work  amoStg 

THE  HEATHEN,  THEIR  ABILITY  FOR  IT  SHOULD  BE  PRACTICALLY  TESTED,  AND,  WHEN  FOUND 
to  EXIST,  BE  DEVELOPED  by  missionary  work  at  home.  Unless  a  man  be  a  successful 
soul-winner  in  his  native  land,  he  is  not  likely  to  become  such  in  China  or  Africa  •  and 
cumberers  of  the  ground  are  more  to  be  dreaded  in  the  Mission-field  than  at  home.  They 
believed  that  training  given  to  missionary  candidates  should  consist  partly  of  practice  in  Home 


R  T  of  ..'f  HE  REGIONS  BEYOND,  and  friends  familiar  with  the  work  which  centres  round  Harley  House 

Bow,  London,  E„  will  omit  the  following  summary ,  as  they  already  know  its  contents.  uariey  nouse. 


6 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


Missions.  Training  for  all  ordinary  work  consists  in  the  actual  doing  of  it,  not  merely  in 
gaining  a  theoretical  knowledge  of  how  it  ought  to  be  done.  Mission  work  is  no  exception  to 
the  rule. 

Moved  by  these  convictions,  and  feeling  that  no  more  suitable  site  could  be  chosen  for  a 

Training  Home  for  Missionary  Volunteers 

than  the  East  of  London,  with  its  mass  of  a  million  of  the  working  classes  and  its  deeply  needy 
“  sunken  tenth,”  Dr.  and  Mrs.  H.  Grattan  Guinness  opened  their  Missionary  College  there  early 
in  1872,  to  volunteers  of  all  evangelical  denominations,  of  all  nationalities  and  all  classes, 
volunteering  for  all  societies ,  all  lands,  and  all  spheres  of  Christian  effort.  They  had  no  committee 
behind  them,  no  advisory  council,  and  no  sort  of  endowment — save  in  the  spiritual  sense.  They 
had,  in  fact,  nothing  in  hand — no  premises,  no  furniture,  no  educational  apparatus,  no  college, 
no  staff  of  tutors,  no  Home  Mission  centre  for  practically  training  the  future  students.  But  they 
had  profound  convictions  of  the  duty  of  the  Church  to  evangelize  the  world,  heart  realization  of  the 
needs  of  the  heathen,  applications  from  a  number  of  young  men  as  missionary  volunteers,  a 
wide  circle  of  Christian  friends  and — God. 

Twenty-two  years  have  passed  away,  and  1872  is  exchanged  for  1894.  The  little  seed  sown 
in  much  weakness  has  germinated  and  grown  till  to-day  it  spreads  its  branches  and 
bears  fruit  in  over  forty  countries.  The  small  private  house  first  taken  has  developed  into  three 
colleges— two  in  East  London,  one  in  Derbyshire.  The  group  of  a  dozen  young  men  who 
gathered  round  the  early  home-like  fireside,  has  grown  to  include  800  labourers  scattered  all 
over  the  world,  and  120  men  and  women  now  in  training.  The  first  handful  of  applicants  for 
missionary  training  has  increased  to  3,700  “  cases,”  each  of  which  has  been  carefully  considered, 
sifted,  examined,  and  decided  upon.  Thirty  or  forty  lands  have  been  represented  by  the 
students  : — 


England 

Austria 

Russia 

India 

Holland 

Kaffraria 

Scotland 

Norway 

Poland 

Ceylon 

Italy 

United  States 

Ireland 

Sweden 

Armenia 

Burmah 

Greece 

Canada 

Wales 

Switzerland 

Turkey 

Arabia 

Corsica 

Brazil 

France 

Spain 

Persia 

Belgium 

Egypt 

Congo  Free  State, 

Germany 

Portugal 

Syria 

Bulgaria 

And  they  have  not  only  come  from  all  quarters  of  the  globe,  but  from  almost  all  evangelical 
sections  of  the  Church.  They  have  belonged  to  the — 

Church  of  England  Lutheran  Church 

Established  Church  of  Scotland  Free  Church  of  Scotland 

Church  of  Ireland  Presbyterian  Church  of  England 

Wesleyan  Methodist  The  Friends 

General  Baptist  Methodist  New  Connexion 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


7 


Strict  Baptist 
Congregational 
Countess  of  Huntingdon’s 
Brethren 

Primitive  Methodist 
Bible  Christian 
Calvinistic  Methodist 
Presbyterian  Church  of  Ireland 
United  Presbyterian  Church 


United  Methodist  Free  Churches 

Evangelical  Union 

Reformed  Church  of  England 

Salvation  Army 

Methodist  Episcopal  Church 

The  Nazarenes 

Church  of  Geneva 

Swiss  Free  Church 

Free  Church  of  France 


The  Vaudois  Church. 


As  catholic  as  it  is  possible  to  be  within  heartily  Protestant  lines,  our  Institutions  carefully 
exchide  distinctive  denominational  teaching.  Theology’s  debatable  grounds  are  the  subject  of 
lively  and  earnest  discussions  among  the  men,  who,  drawn  from  so  many  different  persuasions 
and  destined  to  such  varied  spheres  of  labour,  study  and  live  together  in  brotherly  peace  and 

happiness  during  two  or  three  sessions.  Their  convictions  gain  in 
breadth  from  contact  with  men  of  opposite  mind,  and  they  learn 
to  have  patient  respect  for  each  others’  views. 


On  leaving  us,  our  students  have  gone  out  to  work 
abroad  in  connection  with  thirty  different  societies,  English, 
Scotch,  and  American.  About  seventy  are  connected  with 
the  China  Inland  Mission,  twenty  or  thirty  with  the  North 
African  Mission,  and  others  with  the — 


The  late  JAMES  CAMERON»  of  the  C.I.M., 

WHO  TRAVELLED  12,000  MILES  THROUGH  INLAND  CHINA. 
A  FORMER  HARLEY  HOUSE  STUDENT. 


American  Baptist  Miss.  Union 
American  Bible  Society 
American  Presb.  Miss.  Soc. 
Baptist  Missionary  Society 
Baptist  Zenana  Miss.  Soc. 
British  and  For.  Bible  Soc. 
British  and  P'or.  Sailors’  Soc. 
Bible  Christian  Miss.  Soc. 
Calvinistic  Methd.  Miss.  Soc. 
Church  Missionary  Society 
Congo-Balolo  Mission 
English  Presb.  Miss.  Soc. 
Episcopal  Methd.  Miss.  Soc. 
Foreign  Christian  Miss.  Soc. 
Free  Church  of  Scot.  Miss.  Soc. 


“  Help  for  Brazil  ” 

Khond  Mission,  India 
London  Missionary  Society 
London  Jewish  Miss.  Soc. 
London  City  Mission 
McCall  Mission,  Paris 
Mildmay  Mission  to  Jews 
National  Bible  Soc.of  Scotlam 
New  Zealand  Baptist  Miss. Soc 
Primitive  Methodist  Miss.  Soc 
Swedish  Missionary  Society 
South  Africa  General  Miss. 
South  American  Miss.  Soc. 
United  Methd.  Free  Church 
Wesleyan  Missionary  Society 


8 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 

* 

To-day  the  work  connected  with  this 
Missionary  Institution  is  larger  than  it  has 
ever  been  before,  and  includes  the  following 
branches  : — 

1.  — A  Central  College  and  Training 
Home — Harley  House,  Bow,  E. — where 
fifty  men  of  proved  Christian  character, 
volunteers  for  Foreign  Mission  service, 
receive  a  course  of  special  instruction  and 
practical  preparation  for  the  important  and 
arduous  work  to  which  they  aspire,  either 
as  General  or  Medical  Missionaries. 

2.  — A  similar  College  and  Training 
Home  in  Derbyshire  —  Hulme  Cliff 
College,  Curbar — where,  in  addition  to 
the  usual  educational  and  evangelistic  training,  a 
knowledge  of  practical  agriculture  is  imparted.  This 
College  likewise  accommodates  fifty  men. 

3.  — A  Women’s  Branch — Doric  Lodge,  Bow  Road 
founded  in  September,  1883,  where  young  women  lookii 
forward  to  service  in  the  Foreign  Mission-field  are  traffic 
In  addition  to  their  college  course,  our  deaconesses  held  in 
1892  nearly  1,900  classes  (800  of  them  in  our  night  schools,  760  in  Sunday  schools,  320  among 
factory  girls),  besides  80  Gospel  meetings  for  mothers,  and  80  for  children.  Over  two  hundred 
young  women  have  been  trained  at  Doric  Lodge,  and  are  now  scattered  in  the  foreign  field. 

4.  — A  Medical  Mission  and  Dispensary  in  East  London,  carried  on  by  the  medical  officer 

of  the  Institute.  Our  students  and  deaconesses  help  in  this  work, 
dispensing,  learning  to  recognise  and  treat  common  ailments,  and  at  the 
same  time  finding  opportunities  for  spiritual  work  among  the  patients. 

5.  — A  Nursing  Home — Bromley  Hall,  Brunswick  Road,  Bromley, 
E.  —  where  our  women  students  pass  through  a  practical  course  of  training 
in  the  Maternity  Department  of  our  Medical  Mission  work.  During 
the  last  three  years  about  9,410  medical  visits  have  been  paid,  in  connection 
with  this  Branch,  to  over  941  cases,  every  one  of  which  has  been  success¬ 
fully  treated.  Thirty-five  deaconesses  have  received  lull  training  as  nurses, 
and  have  taken  the  diploma  of  the  London  Obstetrical  Society. 

6.  — Home  Missions  are  carried  on,  as  a  part  of  their  training,  by 
the  students  of  the  Institute  in  many  town  and  country  .centres, 
independent  of  our  large  and  flourishing  mission  centre  in  Bromley.  But 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


9 


in  East  London  alone,  during  the  session  of  1892,  the  efforts  engaged  in  by  our  London  students 
(who  preach  in  nine  different  languages)  included  5,000  Gospel  meetings  and  classes,  in  addition 
to  9,200  visits  paid  to  people  in  their  homes,  and  weekly  work  among  the  sailors  at  five  London 
Docks,  and  among  the  Whitechapel  Jews. 

It  was  foreseen  that,  in  order  to  meet  the  necessities  of  the  case,  the  course 
of  training  would  have  to  be  given  gratuitously,  as  most  applicants  would  be  unable  to 
defray  their  own  expenses,  since  their  entering  the  Institute  would  necessitate  their  relinquish¬ 
ing  the  employments  by  which  they  had  previously  supported  themselves.  Such  has  proved  to 
be  the  case ;  for,  although,  wherever  it  is  possible,  the  students  or  their  friends  help  to  defray  the 
cost  of  training,  ninety-nine  out  of  every  hundred  have  been  gratuitously  trained.  The  Institute 
consequently  involves  a  considerable  outlay,  the  ordinary  expense  being  at  the  rate  of  about  ^*50 
a  year  for  each  of  the  students  : — a  considerable  sum  besides  being  expended  in  the  maintenance 
of  Home  Mission  work. 

The  Course  of  Study  is  adapted  to  give  the  help  which  each  student  requires.  It 
includes,  where  needful,  the  ordinary  branches  of  an  English  education,  but  aims  especially  at 
giving  a  thorough  knowledge  of  the  English  Bible,  and  a  clear  grasp  of  the  fundamental  truths 
of  the  Gospel,  and  of  the  leading  evidences  of  Christianity.  Exegesis,  systematic  theology, 
homiletics,  have  their  place ;  but  the  Bible  itself  is  the  chief  text-book.  The  Greek  of  the  New 
Testament,  Moral  Philosophy,  Medicine,  General  History,  Church  History,  and  the  History 


HOW  TO  GET  TO  HARLEY  HOUSE. 


IO 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


Special  Facilities  for  the  Study  of  Medicine  exist  in  East'London,  and  not  a  few  of 
the  students  have  qualified  as  Medical  Missionaries.  Livingstone  College,  founded  in  1893, 
though  not  connected  with  our  Institutions,  is  in  the  neighbourhood,  and  is  peculiarly  adapted 
to  our  students  who  may  wish  to  give  a  session  to  Elementary  and  Practical  Medicine  before 
leaving  for  the  foreign  field.  Special  regulations  are  made  for  these  brethren,  who  pay  for 
the  course. 

APPLICANTS  ELIGIBLE. — Only  young  men  and  women  over  twenty  years  of  age,  who  have 


'AHtkWE 


been  converted  for  several  years,  who  have  given  themselves  sponta¬ 
neously  to  the  service  of  God  and  been  blessed  and  useful  as  soul-winners,, 
are  received.  Missionaries  cannot  be  manufactured  ;  they  must  be  divinely 
qualified  and  called.  Our  Institute  is  designed  to  help  such  only  to  prepare 
themselves  by  study  and  practice  for  the  Foreign  Mission-field.  Young 
men  and  women  desirous  of  devoting  their  lives  to  the  Foreign  Mission 
service  are  invited  to  write  to  the  Dnectois. 

THE  LIVINGSTONE  INLAND  MISSION  TO  THE  CONGO  was 

founded  in  connection  with  the  Institute  in  January,  1878.  During  its 
first  six  years  it  planted  a  chain  of  stations  extending  seven  hundred 
miles  into  the  interior,  also  prepared  the  earliest  literature  in  the- 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


1 1 


Kikongo  language,  and  launched  the  mission  steamer  Henry  Reed  on  the  Upper  River.  In  1884, 
this  Mission  was  transferred  to  the  American  Baptist  Missionary  Union.  At  the  time  of  the 
transfer  we  had  seven  stations,  reaching  700  miles  into  the  interior,  and  twenty  missionaries 
on  the  Congo.  In  all,  forty  workers,  almost  all  trained  in  the  Institute,  had  been  sent  out  by 
the  Mission.  Eleven  had  died  at  their  posts. 

Five  years  later,  an  increase  in  the  working  staff  of  the  Institute  having  made  advance  in 
Africa  again  practicable,  and  the  A.B.M.U.  not  having  extended  the  Mission  beyond  the 
Equator,  we  felt  it  impossible  longer  to  withhold  our  utmost  efforts  from  the  evangelization  of 
Congoland,  and  were  led  to  open  a  new  mission,  in  a  wholly  untouched  sphere,  among  the 
Balolo  people  living  in  the  country  enclosed  by  the  horse-shoe  bend  of  the  Congo.  The  Congo- 
Balolo  Mission  seeks  to  evangelize  Lololand,  a  country  five  times  as  large  as  England, 
watered  bv  six  great  southern  tributaries  of  the  Congo — the  Lulanga,  Lopori,  Maringa,  Ikelemba, 
Juapa,  and  Bosira  Rivers.  The  Mission  is  managed  by  the  Directorate  of  the  Institute,  assisted 
by  an  Advisory  Council.  Founded  in  1889,  it  has  sent  out  forty-six  Missionaries,  placed  the 
steamer  Pioneer  on  the  Upper  Congo,  and  has  six  stations  and  thirty  workers  now  in  Africa. 
Eleven  of  its  Missionaries  have  died  on  the  Congo,  laying  down  their  lives  for  Christ’s  sake 
and  the  Gospel’s.  The  Lord  has  early  blessed  the  work,  encouraging  us  by  converts  at  every 
station  in  Lololand. 

Lunkundu,  the  Lolo  language,  has  been  reduced  to  writing,  and  a  grammar  and 
vocabulary  have  been  published,  also  an  outline  of  Bible  history,  Scripture  portions,  a  hymn- 
book,  and  a  reading  primer  for  the  natives.  Our  periodical — The  Regions  Beyond — gives  a 
monthly  account  of  the  progress  of  this  enterprise. 


Mode  of  Support. 

Both  the  Institute  and  the  Congo-Balolo  Mission  are  entirely  dependent  on  the 
free-will  offerings  of  the  Lord’s  people.  They  are  carried  on  in  faith  in  Him,  backed  by  no  one 
Church  or  denomination,  but  receiving  gratefully  help  from  all  who  care  for  the  heathen  and 
desire  the  spread  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ.  Their  needs  are  large  and  constant,  the  expenditure 
on  all  accounts  being  over  ^'400  a  week,  or  ^20,000  per  annum.  Contributions  are  received 
with  thanksgiving  to  God.  Lists  of  donations,  with  numbered  receipts,  are  published  monthly 
in  The  Regions  Beyond ,  and  a  duly  audited  balance-sheet  appears  annually 


1 


12 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


The  Regions  Beyond 


Helpers’  Union; 


ITS  ORGANIZATION,  AND  METHODS  OF  PERSONAL  WORK. 


HE  REGIONS  BEYOND  H  E  LPE  RS’  U  N  ION  ,  founded  in  1892 — the  centennial 

year  of  the  birth  of  Modern  Missions— in  connection  with  the  East  London 
*  $ 

Training  Institute  and  the  Congo-Balolo  Mission,  is  the  outcome  of 
much  thought  and  prayer  for  the  furtherance  of  the  Gospel  throughout 
the  world. 

It  seeks  to  provide  a  sphere  of  missionary  service  for  every  grade  of  talent  and  every 
variety  of  age,  position,  and  influence,  working  on  two-fold  lines  : — 

(1)  PERSONAL,  (2)  COLLECTIVE. 

The  present  chapter  deals  with  the  first  of  these  two  forms  of  effort,  the  following 
chapter  with  the  second. 

The  name  “  Regions  Beyond  Helpers’  Union”  is  self-explanatory.  We 
constitute  a  “  UNION  ”  OF  “HELPERS”  of  those  who,  in  the  “REGIONS 
BEYOND,”  are  lying  in  the  darkness  and  hopelessness  of  heathendom. 

OBJECT  OF  THE  R  B.H  U. 

To  unite  Christians  of  all  denominations  in  prayerful  and  earnest  effort  to  promote,  by  any 
and  every  Scriptural  means,  the  evangelization  of  the  world  in  this  generation. 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


13 


“We  are  God’s  fellow-workers”  (1  Cor.  Hi.  9,  R.  V.). 

.  .  “  To  preach  the  Gospel  in  the  Regions  Beyond  ” 


“Ye  also  helping  together” 
(2  Cor.i.  11  and  x.  16). 


BASIS. 


Undenominational,  but  Working  for  all  Denominations. 

(1)  Men  and  women  of  every  section  of  the  Church  are  trained  in  the  Institutions  con¬ 

nected  with  the  Union.  (See  p.  6.) 

(2)  When  trained,  these  students  go  abroad  in  connection  with  their  own  Societies — 

American  or  English,  Church,  Nonconformist,  or  Interdenominational,  as  the  case  may 
be.  (See  p.  7.) 

(3)  The  Congo-Balolo  Mission  unites  workers  of  all  sections  of  the  Church. 

(4)  The  members  of  the  Union  belong  to  all  denominations. 

(5)  The  whole  of  the  Local  Fund  of  R.B.H.U.  Branches  may  be  appropriated  to  any 

missionary  purpose  the  members  of  the  Branch  decide. 

(6)  The  Regions  Beyond ,  the  organ  of  the  Union,  is  interdenominational,  giving  news  from 

all  Societies,  and  pleading  the  claims  of  the  whole  world. 

(7)  The  Branch  Organization  of  the  Union  is  specially  adapted  to  be  taken  up  by 

Ministers  and  Congregations,  and  worked  on  Church  lines  in  connection  with  existing 
missionary  efforts. 

PLEDGE. 


I  purpose,  by  the  help  of  God,  to  study  and  pray  for  Foreign  Missions,  to  give  at  least 
Carey’s  Weekly  Penny,  and  to  do  whatever  else  I  can  to  take  or  send  “  the  Gospel  to  every 
creature”  in  this  generation. 


METHODS. 

Study. 

II.  Prayer. 

III.  Carey’s  Weekly  Penny. 

IV.  Individual  and  United  Effort. 

V.  Extension  of  the  R.B.H.U. 

VI.  Self-Denial. 

MOTTO. 


“Christ  for  the  world.”  “Attempt  great  things  for  God.  Expect  great  things  from  God.” 


How  to  become  a  Member  of  the  R.B.H.U. 


Any  Christian  wishing  to  become  a  member  of  the  R.B.H.U.  must — 

(1)  Sign  the  R.B.H.U.  Pledge. 

(2)  Send  his  or  her  name  and  address  to  Head-quarters,  together  with  the  entrance  fee  of  2s.  6d., 

in  return  for  which  an  artistic  card  of  membership,  the  R.B.H.U.  Prayer  Roll  for  Bible 
and  pocket,  and  the  Carey  Box  of  the  Union  will  be  sent.  The  Regions  Beyond  is 
forwarded  monthly,  free  of  charge,  to  all  members.  The  annual  subscription  fo.r  our  journal 
to  non-members  is  3s. 

N.B. — The  entrance  fee  is  merely  a  nominal  sum,  which  covers  initial  outlay.  In  cases 
where  friends  cannot  afford  the  2s.  6d.  at  the  time'  of  joining,  they  are  allowed  to  have  this 
amount  deducted  from  their  Carey  Box  at  the  close  of  the  first  half-year. 

EVERY  R.B.H.U.  MEMBER  is  bound  by  his  or  her  pledge  to  work  for  all  the  world.  A  few 
words  on  our  six  Methods  may  be  suggestive  to  our  members,  and  to  others  whose  hearts 
the  Lord  is  stirring  to  seek  to  help  the  world  for  which  Christ  died. 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


*4 


Methods  of  the  Union.  I. 


TUDY. 


“ Lift  up  your  eyes,  and  look  on  the  fields  ;  for  they  are  white  already  to  harvest."  - 
John  iv.  35.  “I  .  .  .  understood  by  books." — Dan.  ix.  2. 


“  If  thou  sayest,  ‘Behold,  we  knew  it  not ,’  doth  not  He  that  poyidereth  the  heart 
consider  it?  and  He  that  keepeth  thy  soul,  doth  He  not  know  it  ?  and  shall  He 
not  render  to  every  man  according  to  his  works?" — Pro.  xxiv.  12. 

1.  TO  STUDY  THE  NEEDS  OF  THE  WORLD  IS  OUR  DUTY. 

Look  on  the  fields.” — Such  was,  and  still  is,  the  command  of  Jesus.  And 
if  we  cannot  see  the  world-field  for  ourselves,  we  must  do  so  through  the  eyes  of 
others,  we  must  “understand  by  books.”  It  is  no  excuse  to  say,  “  Behold,  we  knew 
not.”  We  are  responsible  to  know.  And  we  shall  be  judged  in  the  light  of  that 
responsibility. 

2.  STUDY  IS  THE  FIRST  STEP  TOWARDS  MISSIONARY  SERVICE. 

The  only  permanent  basis  for  action  is  knowledge.  The  more  adequate  the  information  we 
^  possess,  the  more  secure  is  our  foundation  for  subsequent  effort.  As  the  Dean  ot  Llandaff  well 
says,  “  Know,  and  you  will  feel ;  know,  and  you  will  pray  ;  know,  and  you  will  help.”  Perhaps 
the  most  important  lines  of  missionary  study  are  : — 

1.  The  Bible  and  Foreign  Missions.  3.  Missionary  Biography. 

2.  The  History  of  Missions.  4.  Non-Christian  Lands  and  Peoples. 

5.  Non-Christian  Religions. 

Each  R.B.H.U.  member  promises  to  study  the  condition  of  the  world.  In  order  to  help 
them  to  do  so  the  Union  provides  : — 

(1)  Our  Monthly  Missionary  Magazine, 

The  Regions  Beyond,  illustrated  with  maps,  diagrams,  and  pictures,  and  containing  articles  on 
leading  missionary  questions,  news  and  correspondence  from  all  over  the  world,  studies  of 
special  heathen  lands,  missionary  poetry  and  music,  spiritual  papers,  and  a  special  section  for  young 
folks.  Every  member,  or  family  of  members,  of  the  Union  receives  our  monthly  journal  free. 


(2)  Our  R.B.H.U.  Leaflet  and  Pamphlet  Series. 

The  R.B.H.U.  leaflets — containing,  among  others,  A  Strange  but  True  Story,  Lamps,  a 
Lesson,  The  Gospel  to  Every  Creature,  Waste  and  Want,  and  The  Present  Test — provide  brief- 
missionary  statements  and  appeals  suitable,  for  free  distribution,  enclosure  in  letters,  etc.,  price 
(in  packets)  6d.  per  doz.  Our  pamphlets  are  a  larger  size,  costing  2d.  each,  and  illustrated. 

(3)  Our  Missionary  Library, 

Containing  the  best  missionary  volumes.  Subject  to  the  regulations  on  page  34,  its  books 
are  at  the  disposal  of  all  R.B.H.LL  members. 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


“  The  harvest  truly  is 
plenteous ,  but  the  labourers 
are  few  ;  pray  ye  therefore 
.  .  .’’—Matt.  ix.  37-38. 

“  Ye  also  helpring  together  by 
prayer  for  us." — 2  Cor.  i.  11. 

“  /  beseech  you ,  brethren , 
.  .  that  ye  strive  together 

.  .  in  your  prayers  to 

l  •  > 

God  .  .  .” — Rom.  xv.  30. 

HE  importance  of  this  branch  of  service  can 
only  be  understood  in  the  light  of  the  Saviour’s 
direct  command,  which  has  made  prayer  for  the  world  our  bounden 
dutv  and  privilege,  fruitful  in  reflex  blessing  to  ourselves,  as  well  as  in  direct  blessing  to  those 
in  distant  lands. 

“  The  effectual  fervent  prayer  of  a  righteous  man  availeth  much.”  The  Lord  teach  us  all 
to  pray  — 1 “  in  the  Holy  Ghost.”  “  Ask,  and  ye  shall  receive,  that  your  joy  may  be  full.” 


II. 

Prayer. 


Prayer  for  the  World  is  our  Responsibility. 

Our  Master  has  left  us  singularly  few  positive  commands  concerning  the  evangelization  of 
the  world.  But  He  gave  two  clear  injunctions  : — 

“  Pray  ye  therefore P 
“  Go  ye  therefore."  ;  - 

Pray,  then,  (1)  Because  it  is  His  plain  injunction;  (2)  Because  the  work  cannot  be  done  in 

any  other  way. 

*  /  ‘4»v 

“The  greatest,  the  most  responsible,  the  busiest,  and  most  successful  servants  that  Christ 
ever  had  divided  their  functions  into  two  departments.  'We  will  give  ourselves  continually  to 
prayer  and  to  the  ministry  of  the  Word.’.  What  would  be  thought  of  dividing  the  twelve  hours 
of  our  day  by  giving  six  hours  to  prayer  for  the  Gospel,  and' six  to  the  ministry  of  the  Word  ? 
Had  all  Christ’s  servants  acted  thus,  could  any  one  estimate  how  mighty  the  results  on  the 


world  would  be  to-day  ?  ” 

MATCH  THE  GREAT  PROMISES  OF  GOD  WITH  GREAT  PRAYERS. 

“If  the  promises  of  God  maybe  regarded  as  moulds,  our  prayers  should  be  like  liquid 
metal  poured  into  them,  in  dimensions  corresponding  with  the  capacity  of  the  mould,  and  taking 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


16 


on  all  its  lines,  grooves,  and  figuring.  Take  His  word-' The  earth  shall  be  filled  with  the 
knowledge  of  the  glory  of  the  Lord  as  the  waters  cover  the  sea, ’-a  prom.se  twice  given  in 
Scripture  j  take  the  many  corresponding  with  it,  and  match  the  great  promises  of  God  w.th 

great  prayers." 

As  a  recent  missionary  writer  well  says,  we  may  work  for  the  heathen  by  prayer,  and 
should  : — 

Especially  Pray  for  the  Missionaries  Abroad. 

‘•Often  abroad,  they  feel  the  breath  of  prayer  at  home,  and  have  an  instinctive  sense  of  our 
meetings.  Brethren,  let  us  transfer  our  sympathy  and  affection  to  our  dear  workers  m  thos .lonely 
fields 1  We  cannot  understand  what  their  life  is  in  those  dark  lands.  t  is  epressing  o  e 
heart ;  it  is  exhausting  to  every  spiritual  energy.  They  must  have  living,  ceaseless  mtercess.on. 

“  Prayer  is  the  highest  spiritual  force.  Itwill  send  workers  to  the  field;  for  the  Master  Himself 
has  said  *  Pray  ye  therefore  the  Lord  of  the  harvest,  that  He  will  send  forth  labourers  into  s 
harvest.’’  It  alone  will  bring  us  the  right  workers.  And  prayer  will  win  souls  and  open  the  hearts  of 

men  to  the  Gospel. 

“Prayer  will  provide  money.  Honestly  pray,  and  you  will  soon  find  yourself  giving,  and  even 

sacrificing,  to  answer  your  own  prayers. 

“  Prayer  will  open  the  last  closed  doors  of  heathendom.  It 
will  open  the  gates  of  Thibet  and  Annam,  and  the  hard  hearts  of 
idolatrous  nations,  and  bring  the  little  flock  for  whom  Jesus  is 

coming  soon. 

“  Yes,  and  prayer  will  bring  Jesus  Himself  to  gather  in  His 
waiting  ones  and  bring  His  Kingdom  in. 

“  Let  each  of  us  give  ourselves  to  this  ministry  of  prayer 
as  never  before.  Let  us  be  definite,  special ;  let  us  have  our  hour  of 
missionary  prayer,  and  let  nothing  interrupt  it.  Let  us  have  special 
ones  for  whom  we  pray,  yet  not  forget  to  pray  for  all.  Let  us 
my  pray  believing  that  we  receive  the  things  we  ask  for,  and  we  shall  see  the  salva- 
f  tion  of  our  God  covering  the  earth,  as  the  waters  cover  the  sea.” 

In  order  to  unite  all  its  Helpers  in  definite,  practical  petition  foi  the 
spread  of  the  Redeemer’s  Kingdom,  the  Union  has  prepared  the  subjoined 
Monthly  Prayer  Roll,  with  subjects  arranged  for  every  day,  in  which  all 
unevangelized  lands,  all  Missionaries  and  native  converts,  the  work  of 
arousing  the  home  Churches,  and  the  removal  of  great  obstacles  in  the  way  of  the  coming 
of  the  Kingdom,  are  remembered. 

The  use  of  the  subjoined  Prayer  Roll  is  not  incumbent  upon  members  of  the  Union,  as 
some  may  be  already  employing  the  Student  Volunteer  Prayer  Cycle,  or  those  of  other 
missionary  organizations.  We  merely  suggest  the  R.B.H.U.  Prayer  Roll  as  a  helpful  and 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


17 


comprehensive  guide  for  world-wide  spiritual  sympathy.  Effectual  prayer  is  importunate, 
constantly  using  the  same  petition,  pleading  the  same  plea  (Matt.  xxvi.  44),  and  it  will  be  well 
if  each  member  would  choose  out  certain  subjects  for  special  importunate  prayer. 


R.B.H.U.  Prayer  Roll. 

I.  GENERAL  MISSIONS. 

DAY. 

1.  The  Evangelization  of  the  world  in  this  generation. 

2.  The  R.B.H.U.  and  its  members. 

3.  For  the  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit  on  all  Missionary  Societies. 

4.  Fulness  of  Divine  Indwelling  for  all  Missionaries  in  foreign  lands. 

5.  Native  converts  of  all  Mission  Churches. 

6.  Deepening  of  missionary  zeal  in  all  the  Churches  (Europe,  America,  Australasia). 

7.  All  missionary  candidates  and  institutions  for  training  such. 

II.  ASIA. 

8.  The  abolition  of  the  Opium  Traffic. 

9.  India  and  Burmah. 

10.  Annam,  Siam,  Cambodia,  Tonquin,  and  Malaysia. 

11.  China,  Mongolia,  Manchuria,  and  Thibet. 

12.  Japan  and  Korea. 

13.  Central  Asia,  Turkestan,  Persia,  Arabia,  Turkey. 

14.  Siberia,  and  all  lands  of  the  Greek  Church. 

III.  AFRICA. 

15.  Abolition  of  Slavery  and  of  the  Drink  Traffic  among  Native  Races. 

16.  North  Africa,  Egypt,  and  Abyssinia. 

17.  The  Soudan,  the  lands  of  the  Niger  and  of  the  Upper  Nile. 

18.  West  Central  Africa  and  the  Congo  Free  State. 

19.  East  Central  Africa  and  the  Lakes  District. 

20.  South  Africa,  Mashonaland,  and  Zambesia. 

21.  For  the  overthrow  of  Mohammedanism,  Buddhism,  Fetichism,  and  all  false  faiths. 

IV.  OTHER  LANDS  AND  NEEDS. 

22.  The  conversion  of  the  Jews. 

23.  Roman  Catholic  lands  of  Europe. 

24.  South  America  (Brazil,  Peru,  the  Argentine,  etc.). 

25.  Greenland,  Labrador,  Alaska,  Khamschatka,  Iceland. 

26.  Oceania  (Borneo,  Celebes,  Sumatra,  Java,  the  Philippines,  New  Guinea,  etc.). 

27.  Medical  Missions,  and  Woman’s  Work  for  Women. 

28.  Unoccupied  fields  (Beloochistan,  Afghanistan,  Nepaul,  Bhotan,  etc.). 

29.  For  those  whom  God  is  calling  to  the  foreign  field,  that  clear  guidance  may  be  given  and  obstacles  removed. 

30.  That  all  Christians  may  deny  themselves  to  give  liberally  to  Foreign  Missions. 

31.  Grace  to  fulfil  our  individual  responsibility  to  the  world. 

Special  Petition  to  be  remembered  each  Lord’s  Day. 

The  Second  Advent  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  the  Universal  Church  may  be  kept 
« looking  for  and  hasting  unto  the  coming  of  the  day  of  God." 

The  Prayer  Roll  is  prepared  in  three  forms,  viz  : — 

1.  Bible  Marker.  2.  Pocket  Card.  3.  Wall  Card. 


18  ' 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 

R.B.H.U.  Prayer  Roll  Papers. 


Since  some  of  the  lands  for  which  we 

‘‘l  .ii.lt*  •  •  -  ■  • 

pray  may  be  unfamiliar  to  us,  a  series  ol 
Prayer  Roll  Papers  is  issued  monthly  in 
The  Regions  Beyond ,  and  will  (D.V.)  be 
reprinted  in  separate  form.  Grasping  the 
main  facts  about  these  lands  ol  darkness, 
we  can  intelligently  pray,  “  Thy  kingdom  come. 
Thy  will  be  done  on  earth,  as  it  is  in  hea^  en. 

Our  Two  Prayer  Books. 


O 

_ 

CO 

pa 

00 

tn 

m 

m 

cn 

2 

c_ 

2 

o 

S 

*” 

m 

:e 

|— 

i- 

o 

£ 

in 

r~ 

O 

c= 

PO 

try 

3= 

r; 

o 

z 

z 

m 

z 

CO 

CO 

— » 

»r> 

CO 

T> 

JO 

o 


to 


CO 


2  i 
2  i 


1  ° 
z  z 

in  co 


—  30 

s  I 

E  o 

r- 


i  1 


Wm 


- 

m 

books : — 

|| 

M 

> 

■■ 

\  ■*-  1  *  *■*-■*—  '  '  - - 7  \  / 

Our  Bibles  should  inspire,  limit,  and  direct  our  petitions— the  limits  we  shall  find  in 
them  are  large.  “  Our  pocket  atlas  should  be  spread  out,  lihe  Hezekiah’s  letter,  before  the 
Lord,  and  be  go?ie  over  carefully  from  day  to  day,  so  that  every  kingdom,  capital,  island, 
and  ocean  should  be  individually  remembered. 

“  Our  faith  should  lay  account  with  a  blessing  coming  to  whole  regions  and  kingdoms 
in  response  to  the  prayers  of  even  one  individual.  Moses,  when  he  piayed  for  himself 
to  be  permitted  to  cross  the  Jordan,  was  refused;  yet,  when  he  fell  down  befoie  the 
Lord  in  intercession  for  two  millions  of  guilty  people,  to  aveit  judgment  horn  them, 
God  hearkened  unto  him. 

“If  we  find  that  individuals  are  employed  to  change  the  face  of  continents  by 
■exploration  or  personal  effort,  why  may  not  individuals  equally  prevail  when  they,  by 
prayer,  lay  hold  of  the  arm  of  the  Almighty  ? 

“  The  answer  to  your  prayers  may  come  by  God’s  sending  you  as  evangelists  or 
settlers  to  the  very  lands  for  which  you  have  prayed  ;  or  by  enabling  you  to  write  a 
volume  which  may  stir  the  missionary  activity  of  hundieds,  oi  to  piepaie  hymns  that  maj 
be  sung  in  every  land  and  tongue.  God  may  enable  you,  by  your  addresses  as  ministei  s, 
professors,  and  laymen,  to  rouse  congregations  and  entire  districts  to  their  duty  to  the 
heathen,  as  well  as  to  call  forth  the  Christian  enthusiasm  of  young  men  in  our  colleges  and 
universities ;  and  mothers  in  Israel,  like  Hannah,  Lois,  and  Eunice,  may,  through  prayer, 
be  the  means  of  sending  forth  a  Carey,  a  Henry  Martyn,  a  Duff,  a  William  Burns,  a 
Stanley  Smith.  I  believe  that  “the  day”  will  declare  that  solitary  individuals  have, 
simply  by  their  prayers,  prevailed  to  introduce  the  Gospel  into  vast  and  populous 
dominions.”0 


03 

2  £ 
s  3 

I  s 
°  2 
Z  2 

in 


*  The  late  Rev.  A.  N.  Somerville,  D.D.,  late  Moderator,  Free  Church  General  Assembly. 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


x9 


*vV  w 


III.  Giving. 


■vv 


*7V* 


“Carey’s  Weekly  Penny.” 


<< 


“  First  gave  their  own  selves  to  the  Lord.”— 2  Cor.  viii.  5. 

Perform  the  doin°  of  it ;  that  as  there  was  a  readiness  to  will ,  so  there  may  be  a  performance  also  .  .  . 
that  now  at  this  time  your  abundance  may  be  a  supply  for  their  want.” — 2  Cor.  viii.  11-14. 
“And  to  remember  the  words  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  how  He  said:  ‘  It  is  more  blessed  to  give  than  to 

receive."' — Acts  xx.  35. 

CTOUNDED  in  1892,  the  year  of  the  Carey  Centenary,  the  R.B.H.U.  adopts  as  its  minimum 
■  the  standard  of  giving  to  missionary  work  which  William  Carey  raised  in  1792.  He  urged 
that  ev  ei}  Chi  istian  should  give  at  least  a  penny  a  week  towards  the  evangelization  of  the  heathen. 

Hitherto  the  Churches’  gifts  have  never  approached  even 
this  moderate  sum.  Were  even  the  small  standard  of 
Carey’s  weekly  penny  universally  adopted  by  Church 
members,  we  should  increase  the  sum  now  annually  raised 
for  Foreign  Missions  one  and  a-half  times  !  Surely  this  is 
the  very  lowest  standard  of  giving  that  could  be  suggested. 
We  earnestly  hope  it  may  be  surpassed  a  hundredfold  by 
the  members  ol  the  R.B.H.U.  Each  member  of  the 
Union,  in  joining,  however,  only  promises  to  give  or  to 
collect  a  penny  a  week  to  forward  the  evangelization 
of  the  world  in  this  generation. 

Every  member  is  furnished  with  our  Carey’s  box, 
unless  several  members  of  one  family  prefer  a  box 
between  them. 

No  better  object  lesson  on  the  religious  condition  of 
the  world  could  be  had  than  our  R.B.H.U.  boxes.  Their 
bright  colours  attract  attention,  comment,  and  contribu¬ 
tion.  Their  silent  Missionary  Sermon,  preached  from  a 
prominent  place  in  the  home,  office,  or  place  of  business, 
secures  far  more  than  a  penny  a  week,  as  members  will 
soon  find. 

Printed  in  five  colours,  our  members’  boxes  measure 
7t  inches  high,  by  5^  in  width.  The  R.B.H.U.  issues 
larger  sizes  of  the  box  for  use  in  Sunday  schools,  etc. 

D 


CAREY’S  WEEKLY  PENNY  BOX 

OF  THE 

Regions  Beyond  Helpers’  Union. 


“  If  God  will  shew  me  anything  that  I  can  do  for  the 
salvation  of  the  world,  that  I  have  not  yet  attempted,  by 
His  grace  I  will  do  it  at  once.” 


20 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


“  LIKE  A  RIVER 
GLORIOUS." 


Expenditure 
of  Funds. 

All  money  contributed  towards  the 
funds  of  the  Union  goes  to  missionary 
work,  and  is  used  (after  deduction 
of  working  expenses)  in  : — 

1.  Training  men  and  women  from  all 
evangelical  denominations  for  missionary  ser¬ 
vice  abroad,  in  connection  with  all  Societies. 

2.  Sending  out  men  and  women  with 
all  evangelical  Societies,  or  as  self-support¬ 
ing  workers  among  the  heathen. 

3.  The  EVANGELIZATION  of  CENTRAL 
Africa  in  connection  with  the  Congo- 
Balolo  Mission. 


IS  our  spiritual  life  a  river  or  a  dead  sea  ?  Giving  is  the  test.  As  Bishop  Taylor  has  well 
said  : — 


“  There  is  but  one  lake  on  the  surface  of  the  globe  from  which  there  is  no  outlet,  and  that  is 
the  Dead  Sea,  which  receives  much  but  gives  nothing.  Such  a  lake  is  a  perfect  illustration  of  a 
Church  all  whose  efforts  terminate  upon  itself.  Around  it  there  will  be  desolation,  and  in  it  there 
will  be  no  life.” 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


21 


*  IV.  Individual  Effort.  * 

It  is  God  which  worketh  in  you  both  to  will  and  to  do  of  His  good  pleasure! — Phil.  ii.  13. 

“  I  will  direct  their  work  in  truth ! — Is.  lxi.  8. 

<{  Lord,  Thou  wilt  ordain  peace  for  us  :  for  Thou  also  hast  wrought  all  our  works  in  us!- — Is.  xxvi.  12. 

“All  that  God  had  done  with  them.” — Acts  xiv.  27,  xv.  4. 

“  Lord,  what  wilt  Thou  have  me  to  do  ?  ” — Acts  ix.  6. 

HE  wide  opportunities  and  duties  comprised  under  this  heading 
can  only  be  shewn  us  by  the  Holy  Spirit,  in  answer  to  the 
question  asked  by  a  praying  heart — “Lord,  what  wilt  Thou 
have  me  to  do  ?  ” 

But  a  few  suggestions  may  prove  useful.  You  are  asking — 

“What  can  I  do?” 

Can  you  go  yourself  to  preach  Christ  to  the  heathen  ? 

Can  you  give  a  son,  a  daughter,  or  some  other  loved  one  to  be  a  Missionary? 

Can  you  tell  of  the  needs  of  heathendom  in  your  own  home  circle,  in  your  Church,  or 
more  widely,  perhaps,  in  many  spheres  ? 

Can  you  influence  young  people — your  Sunday  Classes,  or,  it  may  be,  week-day  scholars — 
to  care  for  Jesus’  “  other  sheep”? 

Can  you  maintain  a  representative  abroad — either  by  giving,  collecting,  or  earning  enough 
to  support  a  Missionary  to  fill  your  place,  if  you  cannot  go  ?  (£50  per  annum  is  enough  for 
this  in  China,  and  £ 80  on  the  Congo,  besides  the  £80  required  for  transport.) 

If  you  cannot  go  at  present,  can  you  prepare  yourself  by  some  training  so  as  to  be  ready 
if  the  door  opens  later  ? 

Can  you  help  some  one  else  to  train,  who  can  go  ? 

Can  you  use  your  pen  for  Foreign  Missions,  by  writing  for  the  press,  or  corresponding  with 
Missionaries  abroad  ? 

Can  you  not  help  to  spread  information  on  Foreign  Missions  by  conversation,  correspondence, 
addresses,  classes,  lectures — helping  to  move  the  home  Churches  to  more  earnest,  self-denying 
effort  ?  The  presentation  of  Missions  at  prayer  meetings  is  of  supreme  importance. 

Can  you  help  to  arrange  a  meeting,  public  or  otherwise,  in  your  neighbourhood  ?  (See 
page  46.)  Or  could  you  get  up  a  Missionary  working  party  ?  Garments  are  badly  needed  for 
mission  work. 

Scatter  literature,  enclosing  missionary  leaflets  in  your  correspondence,  and  spreading  larger 
publications  in  other  ways. 

Help  to  raise  funds  by  enlisting  the  sympathy  of  others,  and  especially  by  foregoing 
luxuries  yourself  and  leading  others  to  forego  them,  for  the  sake  of  advancing  the  kingdom  of 
God  among  “  all  men  everywhere.” 


22 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


To  some  of  us  the  sending  of  a  substitute  would  be  quite  possible,  if  we  lived  a  missionary 
life  at  home  with  this  in  view  all  the  year  round.  It  would  mean  economy  in  travelling,  economy 
in  holiday  making,  economv  in  dress,  so  that  the  messengei  may  be  sent  without  an\  ot  the 
home-work  being  diminished.  Are  you  ready  for  an  effort  which  will  cost  something  all  tin 
year  round?  It  needs  but  £\o  a  year  to  support  a  native  catechist  in  South  Africa,  £75  to 
/80  a  year  for  a  lady  Missionary. 

There  were  three  sisters  once  in  an  Irish  home.  The  eldest  had  a  deep  heart-longing  to  go 
forth,  but  home  claim  was  too  plain  to  resist.  She  took  her  post  at  the  head  of  the  family,  but 
pgflt  everv  energy  to  interest  others  in  Massiqns.  To-day  hei  influence  in  v\  inning  othcis  to 
help,  and  her  work  in  imbuing  thousands  with  a  missionary  spirit,  is  incalculable ;  and,  better 
than  all,  a  young  sister  owes  her  missionary  call  to  the  home  work  of  the  elder,  who  could  not 
go- 

Another  elder  sister,  who  had  the  same  earnest  desire,  and  similar  home  claims,  followed 
the  same  course,  and  to-day  is,  with  a  younger  sister,  in  China.  The  Lord  does  not  lead  all 
alike.  But  He  leads. 

Could  you  write  to  some  lonely  worker  in  heathendom  ?  As  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor  truly  says, 
“It  is  terribly  possible  for  a  Missionary  to  go  out  meaning  to  bring  blessing  to  others  and  to 
lose  blessing  himself.”  One  who  deeply  realized  missionary  needs  in  this  direction  wrote — 

“  Would  not  some  dear  Christian  soul  undertake  to  write  us  religious  letters,  and  enclose  little 
leaflets  and  choice  crumbs — enquire  after  our  souls,  and  draw  out  the  depths  of  our  heart  ? 

Very  soon  after  writing  this  he  was  murdered — a  martyr  for  Jesus  ;  but  his  pleading  words 
remain.  Could  you  answer  them  ? 

Could  you— as  two  suffering  ladies  at  home  are  doing — send  out,  annually,  some  little 
volume  of  words  of  true  spiritual  power  to  every  Missionary  of  some  particular  Society  ? 
o  0  0  0  *  © 

Individual  effort  may  be  exerted  in  four  main  directions — 

1.  Going  yourself  or  sending  others. 

2.  Giving  and  gathering  funds. 

3.  Interesting  others  by  information. 

4.  Helping  the  workers  already  in  the  field  by  prayer  and  sympathy. 

* 

In  making  the  foregoing  suggestions  as  to  methods  of  personal  effort,  for  the  benefit  of 
scattered  members  not  connected  with  any  local  branch,  we  have  necessarily  trenched  on  the 
sphere  of  the  collective  work  of  the  R.B.H.U. 

A  vastly  superior  force  is  brought  into  play  if,  in  sending  our  missionary  representatives, 
raising  funds,  and  interesting  outsiders,  we  work  collectively.  Union  is  strength. 

For  details  as  to  our 

R.B.H.U.  CO-OPERATIVE  EFFORT 

(from  which  individual  members  might  well  take  hints  for  work),  see  chapters  iii.-vi. 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


23 


V.  Extension  of  the  R.B.H.U. 

u  He  first  Jindeth  his  own  brother .” — John  i.  41. 

“  She  .  .  .  called  Mary  her  sister .” — John  xi.  28. 

“  Philip  jindeth  Nathanael — John  1.  45. 

“  From  yon  sounded  out  ihe  word  of  the  Lord.” — 1  Th.  i.  8. 

“  I  said  unto  them,  1  Ye  see  the  distress  .  .  .  how  Jerusalem  lieth  waste  .  .  .  come,  and  let  us 

build  up  the  wall  .  .  .  ’  And  they  said,  1  Let  us  rise  up  and  build l  ” — Neh.  ii.  17,  18. 

“  -  ET  us  rise  up  and  build’’ — the  energetic  decision  of  the  Jewish  leaders 

of  Nehemiah’s  day — was  the  result  of  the  prayer, 
and  thought,  and  prompting  of  a  single  man, 
Nehemiah.  The  building  of  the  city  by  a  thou¬ 
sand  hands  sprang  from  the  heartfelt  appeal 
of  one . 

Self-extension  is  a  fundamental  principle  of  the 
R.B.H.U.  Every  member  is  expected  to  secure  at  least  one 
new  member  every  year,  and  as  many  more  as  he  or  she  can. 
Interesting  others  in  Missions,  and  getting  them  definitely  to 
engage  in  active  effort  for  the  evangelization  of  the  world,  is  a 
peculiarly  important  form  of  missionary  work.  A  C.M.S.  worker 
in  China  states  that  most  of  the  new  missionary  recruits  of  the  last 
few  years  are  from  the  C.M.S.  Gleaners’  Union.  We  trust  that  our 
R.B.H.U.  record,  in  a  few  years’  time,  will  shew  similar  results. 

The  American  Sunday-school  teacher  who  gave  the  little  street 
boy,  Clough,  a  shilling  to  persuade  him  to  come  to  Sunday  school 
little  knew  that  she  was  influencing  a  future  Missionary  who  was  to  be  used 
by  God  to  baptize,  with  his  fellow- workers  in  the  Telugu  mission-field,  2,222 
souls  in  one  day.  The  man  or  woman,  the  lad  or  girl,  whose  heart  the  Lord 
enables  you  to  move  for  the  needs  of  the  heathen  maybe  one  such,  or  maybe 
used  at  home  to  stir  the  souls  of  thousands  to  spread  the  kingdom  of  God. 

If  we  all  heartily  try,  we  shall  be  surprised  to  find  how  easy  it  is  to  succeed  in  gaining  other 
R.B.H.U.  members.  Like  the  snowball  that  imperceptibly  but  swiftly  grows  by  rolling,  the 
Union  spreads  best  by  the  charge  of  self-extension  laid  on  all.  If  every  member  only  gained 
one  new  member  every  year,  our  Branches  would  spring  up  by  leaps  and  bounds.  If  fifty 
people,  for  instance,  in  a  single  centre  get  each  one  more  this  year,  their  Branch  numbers  100  next 
Christmas,  the  following  year  200,  the  next  400,  the  next  800;  and  soon,  by  constant  application 
of  this  most  simple  rule,  no  building  in  the  town  would  be  large  enough  to  hold  them  all. 

Progress  in  this  direction  is  recorded  in  The  Regions  Beyond,  and  we  expect  before  long  to 
have  a  series  of  interesting  notes  on  this  point,  from  month  to  month,  recording  the  comparative 
Success  of  earnest  members  in  extending  the  R.B.H.U, 


24 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


-V- 

*vV  w 


VI.  Self=denial. 


•v* 

•vv 


•v- 

'A' 


“If  any  man  mil  come  after  Me,  let  him  deny  himself,  and  take  up  his  cross  daily,  and 'follow  Me." — 

Luke  ix.  23. 

a  Except  a  corn  of  reheat  fall  into  the  ground  and  die,  it  ahideth  alone:  but  if  it  die ,  it  bringeth  forth 

much  fruit.  He  that  loveth  his  life  shall  lose  it;  and  he  that  hatetli  his  life  in  this  world  shall 

keep  it  unto  life  eternal.  If  any  man  serve  Me,  let  him  follow  Me.”— John  xii.  24-26. 

«  Barnabas  .  .  .  having  land,  sold  it,  and  brought  the  money,  and  laid  it 

at  the  apostles  feet.”— Acts  iv.  36-37. 

<■<  Neither  count  I  my  life  dear  unto  myself,  so  that  I  might  finish  .  the  ministry, 
-which  I  have  received  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  to  testify  the  Gospel.” — Acts  xx.  24. 

SKED  for  along  while,  “What  can  we  do  for  Missions?”  many  of  us  have 
come  to  the  unspoken  conclusion  that  we  can  do  no  more  than  we  are  doing. 

But  change  the  question.  Ask,  not  “What  more  can  I  do?”  but  “What 

can  I  do  without  ?  ” 

To  those  who  have  small  incomes,  the  answer  to  this  question  involves 
economy  in  the  little  things  of  life.  To  many  twopence  or  sixpence  a  week, 
regularly  given,  would  mean  self-saci  lfice. 

To  others,  whose  incomes  are  not  small,  honest  self-denial,  for  the  sake  of  Jesus, 
would  mean  a  complete  remodelling  of  their  whole  style  of  life— the  dismissal  of 
carriages  and  horses  and  unnecessary  servants,  the  dispensing  with  choice  menus 
and  costly  attire,  jewels  and  luxury,  and  the  maintenance,  instead,  of  a  whole  group 
of  Missionaries  abroad.  Many  could  do  this,  who  now,  at  their  present  rate  of  living, 
would  perhaps  think  it  much  to  give  a  few  shillings  a  week  to  heathendom. 

As  Mrs.  Bishop  well  says  : — 

«  \ve  pray  God  to  give  the  means  to  send  forth  labourers.  Has  He  not  given 
r  us  the  means?  Have  we  not  the  means  to  send  forth  Missionaries  ;  have  not  our 

friends  the  means?  And  when  we  pray  God  to  give  the  means,  should  we  not  rather  pray  Him 
to  consume  the  selfishness  which  expends  our  means  upon  ourselves  ?  Dare  we,  can  we,  sing 

such  hymns  as  ‘  All  the  vain  things  that  charm  me  most, 

I  sacrifice  them  to  His  blood,’ 

and  yet  surround  ourselves  with  these  ‘vain  things’— the  lust  of  the  eyes,  and  the  vainglory  of  life  ? 

«  Our  style  of  living  is  always  rising.  We  are  always  accumulating.  We  fill  our  houses  with 
pleasant  things.  We  decorate  our  lives  till  further  decoration  seems  almost  impossible.  Our 
expenditure  on  ourselves  is  enormous.  When  I  returned  from  Asia  two  years  ago,  I  thought 
that  the  expenditure  on  the  decoration  of  life  among  Christian  people  had  largely  risen.  I  think 
so  still,  and  think  so  increasingly.  We  have  many  possessions.  We  have  old  silver 
we  have  jewellery,  objects  of  art,  rare  editions  of  books,  things  that  have  been  given 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


25 


to  us  by  those  we  have  loved,  and  which  have  most  sacred  associations.  All  these  would  bring 
their  money  value  if  they  were  sold.  May  we  not  hear  the  Lord’s  voice  saying  to  us  in  regard 
to  these,  our  treasured  accumulations,  ‘Lovest  thou  Me  more  than  these?’  It  is  time  that  we 
should  re-adjust  our  expenditure  in  the  light  of  our  increased  knowledge  ;  and  not  in  the  light  ol 
our  increased  knowledge  alone,  but  that  we  should  go  carefully  over  our  stewardship  at  the  loot 
of  the  Cross  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  in  the  light  of  those  eyes  which  closed  in  death  for 
our  redemption. 

“  There  can  be  no  arbitrary  law  about  giving.  If  we  re-adjusted,  by  our  increased  knowledge, 
personal  needs  and  Christ’s  needs  at  the  foot  of  the  Cross,  each  one  of  us  here  to-night  would 
be  sure,  I  think  I  may  say,  to  do  the  right  thing. 

“Let  us  be  honest  in  our  self-denial,  and  not  think  that  we  are  carrying  the  burdens  of  this 
great,  perishing  heathen  world  by  touching  them  lightly  with  our  fingers;  but  let  us  bear  them 
till  they  eat  into  the  shrinking  flesh,  and  so  let  us  fulfil  the  law  of  Christ.  Let  us  intreat  Him, 
even  with  strong  crying  and  tears,  to  have  mercy,  not  only  on  the  Christless  heathen,  but  on 
the  Christlessness  within  our  own  hearts,  on  our  shallow  sympathies,  and  hollow  self-denials, 
and  on  our  infinite  callousness  to  the  woes  of  this  perishing  world,  which  God  so  loved  that  He 
gave  His  only  Son  for  its  redemption.” 


26 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


CHAPTER  IV. 


<< 


(( 


HOW  TO  ORGANIZE  AND  WORK 

A  Branch  of  the  R.B.H.U. 

Why  sittest  thou  thyself  alone ,  and  all  the  people  stand  by  thee  from  morning  unto  even  ?  .  . 

The  thins  that  thou  doest  is  not  good.  Thou  wilt  surely  wear  away  .  .  .  this  thing  is  too 

heavy  for  thee  .  .  .  alone.  Provide  out  of  all  the  people  able  men,  such  as  fear  God,  men 

of  truth  .  .  .  to  be  rulers  of  thousands,  and  rulers  of  hundreds ,  rulers  of  fifties ,  and  rulers  of 
tens  .  .  .  and  they  shall  bear  the  burden  with  thee  .  .  .  and  God  command  thee 
so.” — Ex.  xviii.  14-24. 

Peace,  peace  be  unto  thee,  and  peace  be  to  thy  helpers:  for  thy  God  helpeth  thee  .  .  .At  that 

time  day  by  day  there  came  to  David  to  help  him,  until  it  was  a  great  host,  life  the  host  of 
God.” — 1  Ch.  xii.  18-22. 

And  these  are  the  numbers  of  the  bands  that  were  ready  armed  to  the  war,  and  came  to  David 
according  to  the  word  of  the  Lord  .  .  .  men  that  had  understanding  of  the  times, 

to  hnow  what  Israel  ought  to  do.” — 1  Ch.  xii.  23-32. 

RGANIZATION.— It  is  an  old  lesson  taught  by  the  sunburnt  and 
keen-eyed  priest  of  Midian  to  Moses  at  the  start  ot  the 
wilderness  pilgrimage.  More  than  one  man  was  needed  lor 
the  guidance  of  2,000,000  Israelites  ;  and  the  step  that  Moses 
took  in  seeking  many  helpers  was  approved  by  God  in  the 
sentence  which  sealed  his  service — “  faithful  in  all  Mine  house.” 

Right  down  through  the  ages  it  was  the  lesson  learnt  by  those  whom 
God  chose  to  lead  men.  Joshua,  with  his  orderly  army,  and  conquests, 
and  division  of  the  land  ;  David,  with  his  bands  and  captains  ;  Ezra, 
“  the  ready  scribe,”  with  his  lists  of  names  and  numbering  of  the  Jewish 
refugees  ;  Nehemiah  turning  to  account  any  and  everybody’s  latent  skill 
in  the  building  of  the  wall — goldsmiths,  apothecaries,  rulers  and  their 
daughters,  priests,  singers,  merchants,  each  set  to  work  “over  against 
his  house  ”  ;  Ezra,  when  that  work  was  done,  planning  the  dedi¬ 
cation  function,  the  companies  of  singers,  their  path  around  the  city,  the  meeting  place 
where  they  u  sang  loud  ”  at  the  house  of  God  ;  organizing  thoroughly  tithes,  offerings, 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


27 


firs  t-fruits,  portions,  singers'  and  porters’  wards ;  each  in  his  day  and  duty  felt  the  touch 
of  the  great  Spirit  that  brought  order  out  of  chaos  when  “  in  the  beginning  God  created  the 
heaven  and  the  earth.”  And,  coming  nearer  our  own  day,  Paul,  with  his  detailed  directions  for 
church  officers  and  government,  is  one  in  principle  with  the  leaders  of  the  past,  one  in  method 
with  the  Lord,  who,  on  the  grassy  mountain-side,  bade  the  5,000  sit  down  “by  fifties  in  a 
company”  before  He  blessed  and  brake. 

Perhaps  one  of  the  Principal  Reasons  why  the  foreign  mission  work  of  the  Churches  is 
so  far  from  adequate  lies  in  our  lack  of  efficient  home  organization.  Much  has  already  been 
done  in  this  direction  by  the  Gleaners'  Union,  Watchers’  Bands,  and  other  similar  agencies  ; 
but  it  is  still  too  true  that  the  Churches  as  a  whole  give  and  pray,  and  think  and  work,  for 
the  world  spasmodically.  Systematic  giving  is  needed  ;  constant  prayer  and  study ;  regular 
effort  ;  unremitting  service — such  service  as  our  missionary  friends  at  the  front  give,  momently, 
hourly,  daily,  to  a  lost  world  and  to  God. 

It  is  open  to  any  member  of  the  Regions  Beyond  Helpers’  Union  to  belong  to  it 
in  a  personal,  individual  sense,  apart  from  any  organization  but  that  of  the  Union  as  a  whole. 
But  such  membership,  though  good  and  grand  if  thoroughly  lived  up  to,  is  by  no  means  our  ideal. 

What  is  the  ideal  of  the  R.B.H.U.  ? 

That  in  every  town  and  village  in  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  and  in  as  many  as  the  Lord 
may  open  across  the  seas,  there  should  exist  a  group  of  men  and  women,  lasses,  lads,  and  little 
children,  each  of  whom  should  work,  individually  and  collectively,  for  the  evangelization  of  the 
world  in  this  generation  :  that  they  should  be  banded  together  for  this  service,  strengthening 
each  other’s  hands,  taking  up  diff  erent  duties  and  responsibilities,  fitting  into  each  other,  inspiring 
each  other,  and  collectively  accomplishing,  by  the  grace  of  God,  results  impossible  to  isolated 
effort. 

TWO  FORMS  OF  MEMBERSHIP-THE  SECOND  THE  “MORE  EXCELLENT  WAY.” 

If  for  any  reason  one  of  our  Union  members  feels  disinclined  to  join  the  corporate 
work  of  such  a  local  BRANCH,  he  is  perfectly  free  to  remain  independent,  since  general  mem¬ 
bership  of  the  R.B.H.U.  does  not  necessarily  involve  attachment  to  a  local  missionary  centre. 
But  our  twofold  ideal  is  that — 

(1)  Every  member  should  -work  for  all  the  zvorld ; 

(2)  Every  member  should  work  hand  in  hand  with  all  the  others. 

Is  there  a  Local  Branch  in  your  neighbourhood  ?  Join  it ! 

Is  there  none  at  present  working  ? 

Pray  about  the  matter,  and  seek  to  get  one  organized  at  once.  Blessed  is  the  man  that 
possesses  the  divine  talent  of  Organization  !  In  his  hand  a  motley  crew  becomes  an  army,  and 
the  tangled  skein  of  a  complicated  business  concern  is  differentiated  into  its  various  departments, 
each  working  with  a  simplicity  and  ease  that  is  truly  wonderful. 


28 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


CONSTITUTION  OF  R.B.H.U.  BRANCHES. 


Yy^HERE:  ten  or  more  members  agree  to— 

(1)  Hold  a  monthly  All-The-World  Meeting,  and 

(2)  Co-operate  generally  in  the  work  of  the  R.B.H.U., 

they  can  be  constituted  into  an  R.B.H.U.  Branch  by  signing  our  Branch  Organization  Pledge — 


“  We  desire  by  the  help  of  Gon  to  form  a  Branch  of  the  R.B.H.U.  in  .  .  .  (town  or  district) 

and  will  endeavour  to  carry  out  the  local  organization  of  the  Union,  and  to  do  whatever 
else  we  can,  collectively,  to  promote  the  evangelization  of  the  world  in  this  generation. 


Signed  by  (Name) . on  behalf  of  (No.  of  Members) . at  (place) 


1» 


This  pledge  mav  be  drawn  up,  signed  by  at. least  ten  members,  and  forwarded  to  Head¬ 
quarters,  when  the  Branch  will  be  registered. 

A  Branch  may  be  formed  by  any  group  of  members,  with  or  without  the  assistance  ol  an 
R.B.H.U.  Travelling  Secretary.  The  best  way  to  proceed  will  vary  slightly  with  the  number  of 
members  and  the  character  of  the  locality.  A  single  Central  Branch  would  be  sufficient  tor  a 
small  town,  but  as  a  rule  would  not  be  suited  to  a  large  city,  which  should  have  several 
Branches  in  different  neighbourhoods. 

The  precise  centre  of  work  must  in  each  case  be  decided  by  the  members  themselves,  who 
may  elect  to  meet  on  some  common  ground  (a  public  hall  or  room),  or  prefer  to  establish 
Branches  in  connection  with  churches  or  chapels,  to  which  a  considerable  number  ot  R.B.H.U. 
members  may  happen  to  belong.  In  the  latter  case,  it  would  be  necessary  to  secure  the  hearty 
sympathy  of  the  minister,  as,  apart  from  his  entire  approval,  no  such  step  would  be  possible. 

The  formation  of  a  Branch  in  any  church  or  chapel,  Y.M.C.A.  or  Y.W.C.A.,  by  a  group  of 
members,  where  cordial  sympathy  from  those  in  office  exists,  is  a  very  simple  matter  ;  but  in 
any  given  district  the  first  thing  to  find  out  is  what  the  members  wish  on  the  point  of  one  Central 
Branch ,  as  opposed  to  two  or  more  Branches  in  connection  with  existing  work.  This  question 
can  be  decided  as  follows  : — 

1.  Call  together  all  the  Helpers  in  the  neighbourhood  to  a  Preliminary  Meet¬ 
ing — a  list  of  their  names  and  addresses  can  be  had  from  Head-quarters. 

2.  Seek  to  enlist  as  members  of  the  Union  the  mqst  earnest  and  spirituall\ 
minded  persons  in  the  district,  especially  those  who  have  marked  ability  as  leaders  in  any 
department,  since  much  will  subsequently  depend  on  the  influence,  capability,  and  devotion  of 
the  heads  of  the  R.B.H.U.  Bands.  Call  on  these  friends,  and  ask  them  to  be  present  at  the 
Preliminary  Meeting. 

3.  Seek  to  have  the  different  Churches  in  the  neighbourhood  represented.  The 
R.B.H.U.  is  interdenominational,  and  specially  adapted  to  be  linked  to  existing  church  work. 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


29 


4.  After  some  brief  spiritual  and  missionary  addresses  (which  should  be  interspered  with 
plenty  of  singing,  with  good  tunes),  explain  the  objects  and  methods  of  the  Union,  and 

ENROL  AS  MANY  NEW  MEMBERS  AS  POSSIBLE. 

5.  At  the  close  of  the  Meeting,  ask  the  members,  together  with  those  who  have  just 
joined  the  Union,  to  remain  behind,  to  settle  a  few  business  points. 

6.  Take  the  opinion  of  the  members  as  to  whether  it  would  be  advisable  to  form 
one  Central  Branch,  or  several  Branches  in  connection  with  local  churches,  and  organize 
accordingly. 

7.  It  one  Central  Branch,  meeting  monthly  in  some  convenient  place,  is  decided  on, 
proceed  to  the  Election  of — 

(1)  President,  (2)  Secretary,  (3)  Treasurer, 

and  decide  place,  date,  and  hour  for  holding  the  R.B.H.U.  Monthly  All-the- World 
Meeting.  If  preferred,  the  decision  of  this  point  may  be  referred  to  the  Committee. 

8.  If  more  than  one  Branch  is  started,  the  members  who  wish  to  compose  each  Branch 
should  hold  a  further  meeting,  in  the  centre  on  which  they  decide,  when  they  should  state  their 
project,  increase  their  membership,  secure  the  sympathy  of  all  workers  in  the  given  centre,  and 
elect  their  officers. 


DUTIES  OF  R.B.H.U.  OFFICERS.* 

The  President. 

The  President  elected  for  a  Central  Branch  should  be  one  capable  of  uniting  all  classes 
and  denominations,  an  evangelical  and  spiritually  minded  man,  wise,  energetic,  missionary- 
hearted,  and  able  to  speak  intelligently  upon  missionary  themes. 

In  the  case  of  a  Church  Branch,  the  Minister  or  Pastor  usually  becomes  President,  and 
finds  the  Union  a  powerful  ally  to  his  existing  missionary  work. 

The  President’s  duties  will  be  to  preside  at  the  principal  Meetings  of  the  Branch, 
unless  otherwise  arranged ;  to  conduct  all  such  Meetings  in  a  bright  and  hearty  fashion, 
according  to  the  suggestions  given  in  chapter  vi. ;  and,  generally,  to  guide  and  direct  both  the 
deliberations  and  the  practical  working  of  the  Branch. 

Missionary  information  suited  to  help  the  President  in  his  work  will  be  accessible  at 
Head -quarters  and  in  the  Union  Library. 

The  Secretary. 

The  Secretary  should  possess  executive  and  organizing  ability.  He  (or  she)  is  responsible  to : 

(a)  Arrange  and  announce  the  meetings  of  the  Branch,  in  conjunction  with  the  President 
and  Committee,  furnishing  clergymen  and  ministers  with  pulpit  notices ;  and,  when  suitable, 
arranging  with  shopkeepers  and  others  for  the  display  of  an  announcement  board  outside  their 

*  The  officers  elected  may  he  ministers  or  others  of  -prominent  position  ;  but  it  must  net  be  forgotten  that  it  is  sometimes 
best  to  elect  as  Secretary  a  younger  man,  who  has  more  time  to  devote  to  the  working  of  the  Union. 


30 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


business  premises.  Handbills  may,  by  permission  of  tradesmen,  be  left  on  counters  for 
customers  to  see.  Samples  or  quantities  of  R.B.H.U.  literature  may  be  had  from  Head-quarters, 
on  sale  or  return,  for  use  in  connection  with  Branch  Meetings. 

(3)  Register  the  names  and  addresses  of  members  in  the  Roll  Book  provided  for  that  purpose  ; 
and  correct  them  whenever  changes  occur  (from  the  Phebe  Band  lists,  see  p.  35). 

(c)  Enrol  new  members’  names,  and  apply  to  Head-quarters  for  their  cards  of  membership, 
prayer  rolls,  etc. 

(< d )  Keep  a  careful  Minute  of  all  Committee  Meetings  held,  and  also  a  record  of  all  Branch 
Meetings,  noting  any  specially  interesting  circumstances  in  connection  with  them  ;  so  that 
extracts  could  be  published  in  Regions  Beyond ,  and  news  of  progress  exchanged  with  other  Branches. 

(<?)  Act  as  Secretary  to  the  Committee,  keeping  prominent  the  organization  and  efficiency 
of  the  R.B.H.U.  Bands. 

(/)  Interest  the  local  press  in  the  meetings  and  general  work  of  the  Branch.  News 
paragraphs,  if  suitably  drawn  out  and  sent  to  the  publishing  office,  are  usually  welcomed  bv 
editors.  On  the  occasion  of  a  lecture  or  other  public  function  in  connection  with  the  Branch, 
reporters’  tickets,  with  special  invitations,  might  be  sent  to  representatives  of  the  press. 

(g)  Seek  to  find  definite  missionary  work  for  every  member  of  the  Branch,  and  to  see 
that  all  Band  members  are  fulfilling  their  special  ministry  (Col.  iv.  17). 

The  Secretary  is  ex-officio  a  member  of  all  R.B.H.U.  Bands,  and  is  expected  to  attend  Band 
Councils,  whenever  possible,  and  endeavour  to  strengthen  the  hands  of  the  Leader  and  members. 
In  the  case  of  larger  Branches,  the  appointment  of  an  Assistant  Secretary  may  be  necessary. 

The  Treasurer. 

R.B.H.U.  Branch  Funds  are  divided  into  two  sections,  “The  Carey  Fund  ”  and  “  The  Local 
Fund,”  both  in  charge  of  the  Treasurer.  Receipt  books  will  be  sent  from  Harley  House  for 
the  financial  business  of  both  these  departments. 

THE  R.B.H.U.  CAREY  FUND, 

Constituted  by  the  contents  of  the  Carey  boxes,  is  collected  in  January  and  July,  and  sent  to 
Head-quarters.  Boxes  may  either  be  opened  at  a  special  meeting  (the  money  counted,  receipts 
given,  and  new  labels  affixed)  or  at  members’  homes  by  the  Stephen  Band  (see  page  36). 

In  any  case  the  Treasurer  is  responsible  to  have  the  contents  of  all  boxes  collected 
and  a  cheque  for  the  total  amount  forwarded  to  the  General  Secretary,  R.B.H.U.,  Harley 
House,  Bow,  London,  E.,  together  with  the  counterfoils  of  receipts  given  to  the  members.  The 
R.B.H.U.  Carey  Fund  receipt  book  simplifies  this  work  considerably. 

THE  R.B.H.U.  LOCAL  FUND, 

Created  and  maintained  by  special  donations,  and  by  the  free-will  offerings  given  at  the  various 
Branch  meetings,  is  at  the  disposal  of  the  Branch  Committee  for  incidental  expenses  (printing, 
hire  of  halls,  books  for  a  local  missionary  library,  missionary  club-room  for  tfte  use  gf  the 
rqejpbers,  if  desired,  etc.)  qnd  for  wider  outside  gifts. 


\ 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


31 


At  the  close  of  each  half-year,  after  the  payment  of  all  local  expenses,  there  ought  to  be  a 
good  balance  in  hand,  from  which  a  small  amount  might  be  deducted  towards  the  current 
expenses  of  the  ensuing  half-year,  the  bulk  being  appropriated  at  the  discretion  of  the  Branch. 
Where  Branches  are  formed  within  Churches,  the  fund  naturally  forms  an  important  element 
in  the  foreign  missionary  giving  of  the  Church,  and  might  annually  supply  a  good  contribution 
to  its  denominational  Mission  Board.  But  no  hard  and  fast  line  is  laid  down  here  :  some 
Branches  may  wish  to  support  their  own  missionary  representative  abroad  ;  others  may  feel 
special  sympathy  for  undenominational  missions.  The  “ local  fund”  is  entirely  in  the  hands  of  the 
Branch,  and  constitutes  one  of  the  elements  of  its  independent  life  (see  “  Local  Fund,”  ch.  vii.). 

For  all  donations  and  collections  committed  to  his  charge  the  Treasurer  gives  receipts  from 
his  “  Local  Fund  ”  receipt  book,  preserving  vouchers  representing  his  expenditure.  In  addition 
to  this  receipt  book,  he  requires  an  ordinary  account  book  for  the  finances  of  the  Branch. 

The  Committee  audits  this  book  and  controls  all  local  disbursements. 

The  Committee. 

The  Committee  should  number  twelve,  and  include  the  President,  Secretary,  and 
Treasurer  of  the  Branch,  with  the  Leaders  of  the  nine0  local  Bands. 

Its  members  should  represent,  as  far  as  practicable,  the  various  denominations. 

Both  men  and  women  are  eligible  for  election. 

The  whole  of  the  working  of  the  Local  Branch  is  directed  by  the  Committee,  which  is 
responsible  to 

1.  — Arrange  the  best  way  of  conducting  the  monthly  meeting,  place,  date,  time,  etc. 

2.  — Audit  the  Local  Fund  Account ;  control  all  local  disbursements  ;  and  forward  copies  of 

the  Balance-sheet  to  Head-quarters. 

3.  — Organize  the  nine  Bands  of  the  R.B.H.U.  (see  ch.  v.). 

4-  — Decide  on  seeking  the  formation  of  a  second  Branch  in  the  neighbourhood,  if  needed.f 

5-  — Inaugurate  new  work  in  the  surrounding  country  through  the  Macedon  Band,  arranging 

for  lectures  by  members  at  school-rooms  and  other  suitable  places. 

6. — Encourage  the  members  to  engage  in  such  work,  to  avail  themselves  of  the  Missionary 
Lending  Library,  and  otherwise  to  turn  their  talents  to  account  for  the  service  of  the 
heathen  world. 

7- — Generally  supervise  the  working  of  the  Branch  and  use  every  means  to  forward  its  develop¬ 
ment  along  the  strongest  lines  of  missionary  service. 

RULES  OF  THE  COMMITTEE. 

(1)  The  number  decided  on  as  a  quorum  must  vary  with  the  size  of  the  Committee,  but 
probably  three  to  five  will  be  sufficient. 

(2)  The  Committee  should  meet  at  least  once  a  month,  to  discuss  the  position  and  progress 
of  the  Branch,  and  to  receive  reports  of  the  Bands. 

(3)  Its  members  shall  retire  annually,  but  may  be  re-elected. 

(4)  The  Committee  shall  have  power  to  fill  up  any  vacancies  that  occur  in  its  ranks 
during  its  year  of  office. 

o  J 

*  The  “Timothy  Band  ”  is  represented  by  “  Lois." 

t  While  a  single  Branch  will  suffice  most  towns,  large  centres  of  population  may  need  more  than  one.  Ministers 
may  wish  to  establish  Branches  in  connection  with  their  churches  or  chapels  ;  Y.M.C.A.  Secretaries  may  be  able  tc  organize  a 
going  concern  in  their  buildings.  The  more  of  such  Branches  the  better. 


32 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


CHAPTER  V. 


R.B.H.U.  Bands. 


TO  flash  your  word  along 
the  wire  a  hundred  hands 
have  joined — from  the  pioneer 
electricians  of  a  past  genera¬ 
tion  to  the  men  who  hewed 
the  pine  trunk  for  the  last- 
rigged  roadside  pole,  or  the  girl- 
operator  at  the  desk.  To  run  the 
train  how  much  combines?  Fire, 
water,  iron,  skill,  strength,  labour — the 
list  is  long.  Does  not  this  secret  of 
modern  Progress,  the  united  work  of 
many  for  the  good  of  all,  need  wider 
application  to  the  spiritual  sphere  than  it  has  yet  received  ? 

The  Bands  of  the  Regions  Beyond  Helpers’  Union,  formed 
upon  the  principle  of  united  service,  seek  to  realize,  in  the  most 
effective  way  for  all,  the  ideal  of  the  Union,  that  each  member  should  do 
something  definite  for  the  evangelization  of  the  world. 

No  one  need  be  discouraged  by  the  full  details  given,  in  the  following 
pages,  of  their  work.  If  at  the  first  glance  the  suggestions  should  seem  complex,  a 
careful  reading  will  show  their  simplicity.  Should  any  Branch,  however,  feel,  especially 
at  first,  unable  to  adopt  our  Band  organization  in  full,  it  is  perfectly  free  to  work  with¬ 
out.  Let  the  members  take  up  what  they  can,  and  leave  the  rest  to  be  added  by  degrees  as  the 
Branch  develops. 


How  to  Organize  the  Bands. 


At  a  General  Meeting  of  the  R.B.H.U.  members,  in  centres  where  a  Local  Branch 
exists,  the  Secretary  shall  explain  the  functions  of  the  R.B.H.U.  Bands,  and  ask  for  volunteers 
to  take  up  the  different  departments  of  work  they  represent.  Each  Band,  thus  temporarily 
constituted  by  the  volunteer  method,  should  elect  its  Leader,  who  will  represent  it  on  the 
Branch  Committee  (see  page  31,  “The  Committee  ”). 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK, 


33 


At  its  next  sitting  (which  should  be  held  as  early  as  possible),  the  Committee  should  revise 
the  list  of  volunteers  for  the  various  Bands  and  make  any  alterations  that  seem  to  be  necessary. 
One  Band  may  be  over  full  at  the  expense  of  the  total  neglect  of  another.  It  is  the  business  of 
the  Committee  to  remedy  this,  and  to  see  that,  as  far  as  possible,  each  member  is  allocated  a 
place  in  the  organization  suitable  to  his  or  her  capacity  and  opportunity. 

The  decision  of  the  Committee  with  regard  to  the  permanent  constitution  of  the  Bands 
should  be  announced  at  the  next  meeting  of  the  Branch. 

This  method  of  Committee  nomination  will  secure  an  efficient  staff  for  every  Band,  and 
give  all  members  a  suitable  share  in  each  department  of  Branch  work.  Nominations  may  be 
changed,  at  the  discretion  of  the  Committee,  every  six  months,  members  who  have  worked  on 
one  Band  being  passed  on  to  another.  When  a  member  has  been  nominated,  he  should  consider 
his  office  a  sacred  trust  from  God  for  the  service  of  the  world,  to  be  conscientiously  accepted, 
and  never  to  be  declined,  except  for  the  most  urgent  and  valid  reasons. 

R.B.H.U.  BAND  RULES. 

(1)  The  Leader  is  responsible  to  call  Band  Councils  at  regular  intervals,  to  deal  with  the 

questions  arising  in  connection  with  the  work  of  the  Band.  These  Councils  might  with 
advantage  follow  the  Monthly  Meeting,  or  weekly  Prayer  Meeting,  and  need  not  take 
up  much  time. 

(2)  The  Leader  of  the  Band  shall  keep  its  Minutes  and  present  a  record  of  the  progress  of 

the  Band  at  the  monthly  meeting  of  the  Branch  Committee. 

(3)  The  Leader  shall  be  elected  yearly,  and  may  be  re-elected  if  desired. 

(4)  Members  may  belong  to  several  Bands  if  they  wish,  but  can  only  represent  on«  Band  on  the 

Committee. 

(5)  Each  Band  should  endeavour  to  enlist  volunteers  for  its  ranks,  whose  offer  should  be  con¬ 

sidered  by  the  Committee. 

(6)  The  Leader  of  the  Barnabas  Band  shall  receive,  whenever  necessary,  from  any  of  the 

Leaders  of  other  Bands  a  list  of  the  names  and  addresses  of  members  who  may  have 
become  lax  in  their  attendance,  or  neglectful  of  their  duties  in  the  Union  work. 

(7)  All  Band  Councils  shall  be  opened  and  closed  by  prayer. 

THE  BEREAN  BAND. 

“  And  the  brethren  sent  .  .  .  . 

Paul  and  Silas  .  .  .  unto  Berea  .  .  . 
into  the  synagogue  of  the  Jews.  These 

received  the  word  with  all  readiness  of 
mind ,  and  searched  the  Scriptures  daily, 
whether  these  things  were  so.  Therefore 
many  of  them  believed  ...  of 

honourable  women  .  .  .  and  of  men ,  not  a  few.  Acts  xvii.  10-12. 

The  matter-of-fact  style  of  the  Book  of  Acts  makes  the  epithets  “  noble  ”  and  “  honourable,’’ 
U§ed  of  the  Bereans,  stand  out  with  exceptional  force.  Why  were  these  men  and  women  singled 


were  more  noble  .  .  .  in  that  they 


34 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK . 


out  for  a  distinction  so  rare  among  the  records  of  Scripture  history  ?  Because  they  “  searched  ” 
to  find  the  truth,  and,  having  found,  “  believed.”  Their  study  led  to  their  conversion. 

Does  the  parallel  hold  good  lor  the  larger  faith  and  service  of  the  Churches  of  to-day  ? 
Do  not  many  “  Christians  need  conversion  to  Foreign  Missions,  as  really  as  a  sinner  needs 
conversion  to  Christ?”  And  would  not  honest,  thorough-going  study  of  the  Word  of  God  on 
the  question  of  the  world’s  evangelization,  together  with  a  search  into  the  history  ol  Missions, 
transform  many  a  cold  critic  into  a  zealous  friend  ? 

“  Give  attendance  to  reading,”  said  Paul,  in  writing  to  Timothy ;  and  there  is  room  to 
repeat  the  injunction  with  special  reference  to  the  missionary  cause  to-day. 

The  importance  of  Missionary  Study  as  an  individual  duty  has  already  been  emphasised 
(see  page  14),  but  it  needs  accentuation  also  from  the  collective  standpoint,  and  the  Berean 
Band  of  the  R.B.H.U.  is  formed  with  this  in  view  To  help  members  to  co-operate  in 
acquiring  missionary  information,  and,  consequently,  to  spread  missionary  faith  and  zeal. 

Members  agreeing  to  form  a  BEREAN  BAND  will  need  a  library  to  draw  on,  as  the  local 
supply  of  missionary  books  will  probably  soon  be  exhausted.  A  Branch  Library  ma}^  be  formed 
by  local  contributions,  to  meet  the  demand  ;  or  the  Band  can  be  supplied  direct  from  the 

R.B.H.U.  Head=quarters’  Library. 

The  Leader  of  the  Band  (who  must  be  helped  by  a  few  efficient  members  in  the 
management  and  circulation  of  the  books)  should,  if  ordering  from  Head-quarters,  write  for 
enough  books  to  allow  one  to  each  member  of  the  Band.  After*  perusal,  an  interchange  of 
books  can  be  made,  and  so  on  from  week  to  week.  One  penny  per  volume  per  week  is 
charged,  and  when  a  dozen  or  more  books  are  ordered  at  one  time  the  carriage  will  be 
paid  by  Head-quarters.  Members  thus  have  all  the  best  missionary  works  brought  within 
their  reach,  at  the  minimum  of  expense  and  trouble.0' 

The  Leader  of  the  Band  must  : — 

1.  Register  the  names  of  members  holding  books  in  the  Berean  Band  Register ,  to  be  had  at 

Head-quarters. 

2.  Collect  members’  payments  when  volumes  are  brought  in. 

3.  Return  all  books  to  Head-quarters,  together  with  remittance  of  amount  due  for  loan. 

Any  books  can  be  selected  from  the  Head-quarters’  Catalogue  ;  or  certain  stock  boxes  of 
well-known  missionary  books  can  be  had,  if  preferred.  For  contents  of  boxes,  see  catalogue. 

New  members  can  be  received  into  the  Berean  Band  at  any  time. 

*  Where  no  Band  or  Branch  has  been  formed ,  individual  members  may  avail  themselves  of  the  benefits  of  the  Library,  by 
ordering  direct  ftom  the  Catalogue,  paying  one  penny  per  week  per  volume,  plus  the  carriage. 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


35 


THE  PHEBE  BAND. 


she  bore 
of  the  Chin 


has 

■chC 


u  Written  to  the  Romans  from  Corinthus ,  and  sent 
by  Phebe}  servant  of  the  Church  at  Cenchrea  ”  (Romans 
xvi.  27,  footnote).  So  runs  the  simple  record  that 
closes  the  Epistle  to  the  Romans.  The  letter  had  been 
written.  A  messenger  was  needed  to  carry  it  from  Corinth 
to  Rome,  and  Phebe  went. 

One  thinks  of  that  simple  woman,  “  a  servant  of  the  Church,”  1800 
years  ago.  One  thinks  how  much  she  carried  ;  to  what  millions  the  letter 
spoken :  what  innumerable  lives  it  has  transformed — “  Phebe ,  a  servant 


Could  any  sweeter  or  simpler  name  be  chosen  for  a  group  of  missionary  helpers  who  under¬ 
take  to  carry,  for  the  sake  of  Jesus  Christ,  a  monthly  missionary  letter  to  as  many  homes  as 
the  Lord  may  enable  them  to  reach  ?  Each  going  out,  in  sunshine  or  rain,  under  summer  skies 
or  across  wintry  snow,  will  think  of  the  journey  taken  by  Phebe  long  ago,  and  of  the  Lord  for 
whose  sake  she  did  the  quiet  service  the  record  of  which  He  has  sent  down  through  the 
centuries  to  us.  Was  it  in  winter  she  went  ?  In  summer  ?  Did  she  feel  lonely  in  her  solitary 
journey  ?  Was  she  weary  of  the  way  sometimes  ?  .  .  .  .  But  she  was  not  alone. 


THE  PHEBE  BAND  of  the  R.B.H.U.  undertakes  to  distribute  to  local  members  our  monthly 
missionary  magazine,  The  Regions  Beyond.  The  work  is  easy,  and,  involving  as  it  does  fresh  air 
and  exercise,  is  eminently  suited  to  young  folks.  It  may  be  made  a  means  of  real  spiritual 
service.  Phebe  Band  members,  in  delivering  The  Regions  Beyond ,  may  call  on  members  and  seek 
to  make  the  visit  one  of  spiritual  help.  Such  visits,  however,  are  not  an  essential  part  of  the 
duties  of  the  Phebe  Band,  whose  functions  are  simply  to  : — 

(1)  Deliver  The  Regions  Beyond  to  local  members  month  by  month;  with  our  Passage  and 

Outfit  Letters,  and  other  Headquarters’  notices. 

(2)  Inform  the  Secretary  of  any  changes  of  address  among  members,  so  that  the  Roll-book  may 

be  kept  correct. 

(3)  Help  in  the  systematic  distribution  of  handbills  and  notices  of  Special  Branch  Meetings, 

sub-dividing  the  town  into  sections,  and  each  member  holding  him  or  herself  responsible 

for  the  thorough  “  billing  ”  of  his  or  her  part. 

A  parcel  containing  sufficient  copies  of  The  Regions  Beyond  for  each  member  of  the  Branch 
is  sent  monthly  from  Headquarters  to  the  Secretary,  for  the  Leader  of  the  Phebe  Band,  who 
is  responsible  to  : — 

(1)  Keep  a  list  of  the  names  and  addresses  of  all  Branch  members. 

(2)  Divide  the  list  into  districts,  according  to  the  location  of  members’  addresses,  and  appoint  a 

certain  district  to  each  member  of  the  Phebe  Band. 

(3)  Supply  Band  members  monthly  with  copies  of  The  Regions  Beyond  for  each  member  in  his  or 

her  district. 

(4)  Receive  from  Band  members  notes  of  changes  of  address  that  may  occur;  enter  these  in  tho 

Phebe  Band  Register,  and  notify  them  to  the  Secretary. 


3^ 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


THE  STEPHEN  BAND 


“  ‘  Brethren,  look  ye  out  among  you  seven  men  of  honest  report ,  full  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and 
wisdom,  whom  we  may  appoint  over  this  business.’ 

u  \)id  the  saying  pleased  the  whole  multitude  .'  and  they  chose  Stephen  .  .  .  and  Philip,  and 

Prochorus,  and  Nicancr ,  and  Timon,  and  Parmenas,  and  Nicolas,  a  proselyte." — Acts  vi.  3-5. 

Stephen  was  the  leader,  and  the  most  noted,  of  this  first  group  of  Spirit- 


filled  church  servants,  so  we  have  taken  his  name  for  the  financial  workers  of  the 
R.B.H.U. 


Every  man  of  the  first  Stephen  Band  was  “  full  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
and  wisdom,”  while  verses  5>  8,  and  10 


of  Acts  vi.,  and  verse  55  of  chapter  vii.. 
specially  state  of  their  leader  that  he  A / 
was  full  of  faith  and  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  of  grace  and  power  (R.V.). 

His  appointed  duty  was  only  the  management 
finances  ;  yet  for  this  post  they  chose  a  man  whose 


of  church  J 


as  it 


face,  transformed  by  the  light  of  God,  was  “  as  it  ^ 
had  been  the  face  of  an  angel,”  whose  last  words 
were  of  his  murderers,  “  Lord,  lay  not  this  sin  to  their 
charge.” 


Such  are  the  men  and  women  needed  for 
the  management  of  missionary  finances. 

God  grant  that  every  R.B.H.U.  Stephen  Band  member  may  worthily  bear  the  name  of 
the  first  martyr  of  Jesus  Christ. 

THE  STEPHEN  BAND  must  consist  of  seven  volunteers,  who  are  willing  to  help  the 
Treasurer  in  : — 

(!)  Collecting  the  Carey  Fund  from  members  who  find  it  inconvenient  to  bring  their  boxes  at 

the  right  time.  Some  friends  are  always  dilatory  in  this  matter,  and,  in  order  to  obtain 
punctuality,  it  is  of  absolute  importance  that  the  Treasurer  should  have  adequate  help 
in  this  department. 

(2)  Helping  at  the  half-yearly  Box-opening  Meetings  of  the  Branch  ;  taking  charge  of  the 

tables  at  which  boxes  are  received  ;  opening  them,  counting  and  registering  their  contents, 
writing  out  and  affixing  new  labels,  etc. 

(3)  Taking  charge  of  the  Collecting  Card  Department  of  the  Union.  By  prayerful  work  in 

this  direction,  much  may  be  raised  from  friends  who  may  not  care  to  join  the  Union,  but 
who  would  gladly  give  if  asked. 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


37 


THE  5ILAS  BAND. 

“ And  at  midnight  Paul  and  Silas  prayed ,  and  sang  praises  unto  God  :  and  the  prisoners  heard  them. 
And  suddenly  there  was  a  great  earthquake ,  so  that  the  foundations  of  the  prison  were  shaken  : 
and  immediately  all  the  doors  were  opened ,  and  every  one  s  bands  were  loosed — Acts  xvi. 
25-26. 

It  was  very  dark,  for  it  was  midnight.  It  was  very  dismal,  for  they  were  in  prison.  It  must 
have  been  painful,  for  their  feet  were  in  the  stocks,  and  their  backs  sore  with  the  beating  just 
received.  But,  right  there  in  the  prison,  in  the  darkest  hour  of  all,  they  “  prayed  and  sang 
praises  unto  God.” 

The  night  is  far  spent,  the  day  is  at  hand.  Perhaps  for  us — for  the  whole  Church — the 

midnight  hour  is  past  and  the  great  Day-spring  nearer  than  we 
think.  But  it  is  night  still,  any  way  ;  and  more  than  half  humanity 
still  lies  in  utter  darkness  and  bound  with  prison  chains.  To  take 
away  the  darkness,  to  set  the  prisoners  free,  there  is  need  of  Silas’ 
song.  They  sang  because  the  joy  of  God  was  in  them — “  the  fruit 
of  the  Spirit  is  ...  .  joy.” 

The  R.B.H.U.  SILAS  BAND  is  so  called  in  memory  of  the 
midnight  when  the  two  first  missionaries  made  their  prison  cell 
ring  with  hallelujahs.  They  had  only  been  a  few  days  in  the  great 
mission-field  of  Pagan  Europe.  As  far  as  we  can  judge,  the  end 
of  their  first  fortnight  found  them  beaten  and  bound,  with  their 
feet  in  the  stocks.  Think  of  the  cultivated  civilised  heathendom 
in  the  midst  of  which  they  lay.  Think  of  the  hoary  world-wide 
idolatry  that  covered  with  its  shadow  the  Roman  Empire.  Listen, 
through  the  midnight,  to  the  song  that  rises  gladly  up  to  the 
Throne  of  God  from  that  dungeon’s  gloom.  The  earthquake  seems 
a  little  thing,  almost  a  natural  consequence,  after  the  supreme 
miracle  of  that  first  mission  hymn.  Thrilling  with  the  gladness  of 
a  resurrection  Gospel,  destined  to  tune  the  hearts  of  humanity  to 
praise,  it  rang  up  through  the  darkness  of  that  heathen  world. 

And  shall  not  we  sing  ? 

The  Silas  Band  is  simply  a  band  of  singers  and  musicians — 
young  men  and  women,  boys  and  girls,  who  have  voices  to  use  for  God.  Their  function  in 
the  Union  is  to — 

(1)  Practise  in  parts  the  best  missionary  hymns,  old  and  new. 

(2)  Prepare  the  programme  of  missionary  song  for  the  Branch  monthly  gatherings. 

(3)  Go,  or  depute  some  of  their  members  to  go,  with  the  Macedon  Band  to  each  of  their  meetings 

in  outlying  districts,  and  to  attend  and  help  in  all  such  meetings  at  home. 


38 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK 


RY  to  originate  new  missionary  hymns,  either  by  composing  them  or  by  adapting  new 
words  to  well-known  music.  A  wide  sphere  lies  open  to  the  musical  minds 
connected  with  our  R.B.H.U.  Silas  Singers  in  adapting  missionary  words  to 
popular  music  of  a  high  type.  The  exquisite  melodies  of  Schumann,  Schubert, 
Mendelssohn,  Rubinstein,  and  many  others,  might  thus  be  turned  to  account  for 
the  service  of  the  heathen  world. 

(5)  Help  the  musical  department  of  Branch  Meetings  with  instrumental  as 
well  as  vocal  music,  if  possible. 

(6)  Get  up  Missionary  Services  of  Song.  This  plan  is  especially  useful  in 
country  places,  and  will  often  interest  an  audience  that  no  “  missionary  meeting” 
would  attract. 

The  best  original  productions  that  the  Silas  Singers,  in  this 
direction  or  in  any  other  musical  line,  may  produce  will  appear 
from  time  to  time  in  the  pages  of  The  Regions  Beyond. 

Let  us  give  ourselves  heartily  and  prayerfully  to  this  impor¬ 
tant  branch  of  missionary  service,  and  God  may  send  through 
us  many  a  song  which,  although  indirectly,  may  yet  bring  “libertv 
to  the  captive”  in  manv  a  heathen  land,  even  as  long  ago  “the 
prisoners  heard  ....  and  every  one’s  bands  were  loosed.” 

THE  BARNABAS  BAND. 

“  And  when  Saul  was  come  to  Jerusalem ,  he  assayed  to  join  himself  to  the 
disciples:  but  they  were  all  afraid  of  him,  and  believed  not  that  he 
was  a  disciple.  But  Barnabas  tool:  him,  and  brought  him  to  the 
apostles,  and  declared  unto  them  how  he  had  seen  the  Lord  in  the  way, 
and  that  He  had  spoken  to  him,  and  how  he  had  preached  boldly  at  Damascus  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.” — Acts  ix.  26-27. 


He  was  a  man  with  a  big  heart.  He  could  believe  when  other  people  doubted.  He  could 
be  friendly  when  other  folks  were  cold.  He  stood  by  the  lonelv  stranger  at  whom  everyone 
looked  askance.  He  brought  him  to  the  heads  of  the  Church  and  stood  up  for  him,  introduced 
him  here  and  there,  passed  him  right  in  to  the  most  respected  circles,  and  stood  by  him  as  a 
staunch  friend. 


Such  men  are  needed.  They  are  somehow  rather  rare.  But  one  of  the  simplest  and 
sweetest  duties  is  to  play  the  part  of  Barnabas  to  the  trembling  new  disciple,  to  give  him  the 
right  hand  of  fellowship  and  introduction  to  the  home  circle  of  the  Church. 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


39 


The  R.B.H.U.  BARNABAS  BAND  undertakes  in  the  spirit  of  this  SpiRiT-filled  disciple  to  : _ • 

Receive  Members  and  others  with  a  pleasant  word  and  hearty  hand-shake,  at  the  monthly 

or  other  meetings  of  the  Branch.  There  is  especial  scope  for  friendliness  and  unselfish 
consideration  of  others  at  the  social  gatherings  of  the  Branch,  when  the  Barnabas  Band 
can  make  itself  useful  by  handing  round  coffee  and  tea,  and  generally  contributing  to  the 
success  of  the  evening.  Even  a  small  service  like  this  may  do  much  to  help  and  bless. 

(2)  Meet  the  Lecturers  who  may  visit  the  Branch  from  time  to  time,  and  accompany  them  to 

the  meeting. 

(3)  Look  after  Members  absent  through  sickness  or  any  other  reason,  and  reclaim  those  who 

have  grown  lax  in  their  attendance  at  the  Meetings,  and  negligent  of  their  Union 
privileges  and  duties. 

Delicate  tact  and  Divinely  guided  discernment  are  needed  for  this  latter  piece  of  work. 
The  Barnabas  Band,  if  of  the  right  sort  and  inspired  by  the  Holy  Spirit  in  carrying  out  its 
duties,  may  be  a  means  of  mighty  blessing  to  many  lives.  Lists  of  the  names  and  addresses  of 
persistent  absentees  will  be  regularly  given  by  the  other  Bands  to  the  Leader  of  Barnabas, 
who  should  meet  with  his  Band  for  special  prayer  as  to  the  wisest  way  of  approaching  such 
members.  There  is  danger  that,  in  seeking  to  reclaim  them,  one  may  alienate  them  still  further  ; 
but  a  true  “Barnabas,”  led  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  will  find  his  way  to  the  hearts  he  seeks  to 

influence,  and  bring  them  nearer  Christ,  and  in  so  doing  nearer  the  great  lost  world  for  which 
Christ  died. 

THE  MARTHA  BAND. 

“  Martha  received  Him  into  her  house”  ....  “  There  they  made  Him  a  supper  ;  and  Martha 
served  ....  “Jesus  loved  Martha.  — Luke  x.  38,  John  xii.  2,  John  xi.  5. 

s  good  to  think  of  those  three  sweet  words,  “  Jesus  loved  Martha.”  They 
are  not  often  thought  of  first  in  connection  with  her.  But  ought  they  not 
to  be  ?  We  all  know  that  she  was  cumbered  about  much  serving,  but  then  it  did 
need  somebody  to  lay  the  dinner  things,  and  look  after  the  bodily  welfare  of  the 

disciples.  Her  only  failure  was  that  she  was  cumbered  in  her  service _ “  cumbered 

about  much  serving  and  thus  overlooked  the  great  supreme  “one  thing.” 
Yet  it  was  Martha  who  ran  to  Christ  first  from  the  house  of  sorrow ;  Martha 
who  served  Him  when  He  sat  at  meat;  and  very  certainly  such  service  is 
required  still. 

Our  Helpers’  Union  MARTHA  BAND  will  not  have  frequent  duties;  though, 
when  its  turn  does  come  for  work,  the  work  will  not  be  liMit 

Whenever  a  quarterly  tea  meeting  or  other  Branch  function -which  needs 
provisioning  comes  round,  the  duty  of  the  Martha  Band  (which  will  naturally 
consist  mainly  of  ladies)  will  be  to  meet  and  arrange  the  details  of  the  menu. 


4o 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


At  some  of  the  meetings  of  the  Timothy  Band  “  Martha  ”  will  also  be  in  great  request,  to 
somehow  secure  good  things  for  the  little  ones.  Each  Branch  will  decide  how  often  “  Martha  ” 
hospitality  shall  be  drawn  on,  and  a  good  working  Martha  Band  will  probably  find  its  expenses 
reduced  to  a  minimum.  Many  a  good  grocer,  or  confectioner,  or  baker  will  supply  the  necessary 
tea,  cake,  or  bread  freely,  or  at  reduced  cost,  for  the  meetings,  and  thrifty  housewives  can  help 
by  home  cooking.  Many  hands  make  light  work,  and  it  only  needs  thoughtful  arrangement  to 
carry  through  the  department  with  success.  If  every  one  who  shares  the  hospitality  ot  the 
Martha  Band  pays  4 d.  or  6d.  for  his  tea,  the  Band  will  be  able  to  give  a  good  contribution  to 

to  the  Local  Fund. 

The  work  seems  commonplace  ;  but  as  we  look  behind  the  seen  to  the  invisible,  do  we  not 
hear  the  Saviour  say  to  all  the  helping  hands  that  join  in  this  simple  service—' “  Ye  did  it  unto 
Me”  ?  How  high  her  privilege,  when  Jesus  sat  at  meat  “and  Martha  served.” 


THE  LOIS  BAND. 

“  From  a  child  thou  hast  known  the  holy  Scriptures ,  which  are  able  to  make  thee  wise  unto 
salvation  1' — 2  Tim.  iii.  15.  “  The  unfeigned  faith  that  is  in  thee ,  which  dwelt  first  in  thy  grandmother 

Lois,  and  thy  mother  Eunice  ;  and  I  am  persuaded  that  in  thee  also.  2  Tim.  i.  5* 

Then  there  was  little  Timothy — of  course.  The  baby  boy— the  heart’s  delight 
of  a  wee  trot  running  about  the  home — the  merry  child — the  school  boy — the 
thoughtful  youth — the  student — the  preacher — the  leader  of  men — the  man  of 
God— the  bishop  in  the  martyr  Church  1800  years  ago.  There  was  Timothy  : 
because  there  was  Eunice,  and  because  Lois  was  there  the  beloved  mothei 
and  grandmother  filled  with  an  “  unfeigned  faith.’ 

What  need  of  any  comment  ? 

“The  greatest  Christian  Missionaries,”  a  well-known  writer  states,  “date 
their  call  to  heathendom  to  childhood.”  Who  shall  say  what  latent  powers, 
what  possibilities,  lie  bound  up  in  a  single  child-life  ? 

It  is  so  easy  to  interest  the  little  ones  in  missions.  Foreign  countries 
are  to  them  no  further  than  the  next  parish,  certainly  not  than  tne  nearest 
town.  Youth’s  bright  imagination  grasps  the  novel  scenes  and  customs,  the 
odd  dress,  strange  worship,  quaint  languages,  and  stories  of  far-off  heathen 
countries  so  much  more  vividly  than  do  the  minds  that  have  thought  long. 

The  R.B.H.U.  LOIS  BAND  exists  to  interest  the  children  of  the 
Branch  and  adjacent  neighbourhood  in  Missions.  It  numbers  as  many 
members  as  care  to  join.  It  is  composed,  not  of  children,  but  ot  those  who 
promise  to  try  to  link  children’s  sympathy  and  service  to  the  great  heathen 
world. 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


4* 


The  principal  work  of  the  Band  is  to  get  up  thoroughly 
interesting  Children’s  Missionary  Gatherings — tea  meetings  and 
lantern  talks,  or  reading  and  working  parties  at  which  some  fascinating 
missionary  book  is  read  aloud,  while  the  hands  of  the  little  folks  are 
kept  busy  about  missionary  business.  Many  other  ways  of  using 
little  Helpers  will  suggest  themselves  to  prayerful,  loving  hearts. 
And  many  a  woman  who  has  no  little  “  Timothy  ”  of  her  own  to  give 
to  God,  and  to  train  for  His  world’s  service,  may  find,  in  this 
special  sphere  of  work,  child  hearts  that  she  may  make  her  own  by 
loving  prayerful  influence,  and  that  by  patient  teaching  she  may 
draw  out  to  work  for  Christ  and  for  all  for  whom  He  died. 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  THE  LOIS  BAND. 

(1)  Get  up  an  exhibition  of  work  of  the  various  kinds  done  by  the  children — the 

simplest  things  that  they  can  make — modelling,  fretwork,  sewing,  plaiting, 
stitching,  painting,  etc.,  etc. 

Entrance  fees  should  be  charged  ;  and  things  on  exhibit  might  be  cheaply  sold 
at  the  close,  thus  interesting  the  parents  and  little  ones,  besides  helping  to 
raise  pennies  for  the  children’s  Carey  Box. 

(2)  Organize  “Timothy  Band’’  Missionary  Working-parties. 

(3)  Lead  the  little  ones  to  realize  the  importance  of  self-denying  giving  to  God; 

pennies  from  their  pocket-money,  or  collected  from  friends,  soon  mount  up.  Let 
them  sometimes  earn  a  penny,  and  trade  with  it  as  their  ingenuity  may  devise, 

giving  the  proceeds  to  the  Missionary  Fund. 


(4)  Develop  children's  interests  and  activities 
along  missionary  lines,  in  any  and  every  way.  They 
might,  for  instance,  help  to  earn  money  for  Missions 
by  keeping  rabbits  or  other  pets,  and  selling  the 
young  ones;  weeding,  gathering  seeds,  running 
errands,  doing  carpentry,  etc.  ;  gathering  ferns,  blackberries,  nuts,  mushrooms,  etc.  • 
making  garden  nets,  and  collecting  foreign  stamps  for  sale.  ' 

They  might  make  scrap-books  for  Mission  Schools;  do  knitting,  plain  and  fancy 
needlework,  and  aress  dolls  for  sale  or  for  Mission  Schools ;  make  patchwork  or  clothes 
for  Mission  Children ;  hem  bright  cotton  handkerchiefs  for  Syrian  children  to  wear 
over  their  heads  ;  collect  toys,  picture-cards,  games,  and  books  for  Mission  Schools  and 
old  linen  for  Medical  Missions. 

The  Lois  Band  should  hold  its  children’s  meetings  weekly,  fort¬ 
nightly,  or  monthly.  Some  member  might  lend  her  drawing-room 
•  for  the  occasion,  and  another  undertake  to  give  a  bright  illustrated 
talk  on  missions. 


THE  TIMOTHY  BAND 

Is  formed  by  all  young  folks  of  the  R.B.H.U.,  and  works  in  con¬ 
junction  with  the  Lois  Band.  It  holds  no  Council  (like  the  other 
R.B.H.U.  Bands)  and  has  no  special  Leader,  but  all  the  gatherings 
of  its  members  are  to  be  called  Timothy  Band  Meetings.  Outlines 
of  its  work  are  given  above  under  the  Lois  Band,  and  further 
suggestions  will  be  found  in  The  Regions  Beyond. 


42 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


THE  PERSIS  BAND. 

“ Salute  Tryphena  and  Tryphosa,  who  labour  in  the  Lord.  Salute  thebeloved  Per  sis,  which 
laboured  much  in  the  Lord.” — Rom.  xvi.  12. 

Was  she  old  or  young  ?  Nobody  knows.  Did  she  earn  her  own  living,  and  was  her  spare 
time  given  to  that  “much'  labour;  or  was  she  a  lady  living  at  ease,  who  gladly  spent  her  whole 
life  in  the  service  of  her  King?  No  answer  reaches  us  from  the  old  record.  We  can  only 
learn  that  Persis  “laboured”  and  laboured  “  much  in  the  Lord.” 

But  that  is  quite  enough  for  us  to  know.  And  the  simple,  noble  record  of  her  devoted 
life,  whose  story,  told  in  a  single  sentence,  has  come  down  all  the  ages  and  reads  as  freshly  now 
as  it  did  when  Paul  first  wrote,  is  strong  enough  to  suggest  a  wide  symbolic  name  for  a 
Band  of  Women  Workers  of  to-day, 

“  Persis  laboured  much  in  the  Lord,”  and  the  PERSIS  BAND  of  our  Missionary  Union 
consists  of  women  who  will  undertake  to  co-operate  in  any  lines  of  work  helpful  to  Foreign 
Missions.  The  subjoined  plans  have  proved  useful  : — 

(1)  Making  clothes  for  the  native  Christians  in  the  Congo  and  other  Missions,  or  for  the  poor  in  our  East 

London  work.  Patterns  can  be  had  from  Head-quarters. 

(2)  Preparing  work  of  all  sorts  for  Missionary  Sales,  which  the  Band  should  organize  and  carry  out.  Among  the 

articles  that  may  be  turned  to  account  at  such  Sales  are — furniture,  pictures,  ornaments,  books,  old  china, 
curios,  coins,  etc.,  which  friends  are  willing  to  give  up  for  the  sake  of  Christ  and  heathendom  ;  various 
kinds  of  plain  and  fancy  needlework,  home-knitted  stockings,  vests,  babies’  shoes,  shawls,  wraps,  skirts,  etc., 
cone  or  cork  brackets,  flower-stands,  and  other  fancy  articles;  oil  paintings,  water-colour  drawings,  etc. 

(3)  Organizing  Jumble-sales  of  cast-off  clothing,  etc.,  often  very  popular  in  poor  districts. 

HOW  TO  RAISE  MISSIONARY  MONEY  BY  LITTLE  THINGS. 

Keeping  bees  and  selling  honey;  or  cows  and  selling  milk,  butter,  cheese. 

Making  jam,  jellies,  cakes,  biscuits,  gingerbread,  toffee,  etc.,  for  sale. 

Selling  magazines  and  books  when  read  for  half-price  ;  jewellery,  old  silver,  etc. 

Selling  old  letter  paper  and  white  rags  to  paper  manufacturers  ;  old  newspapers,  bottles,  tins,  etc. 

Giving  lessons  in  music,  drawing,  paintirg  languages,  dressmaking 
or  cookery. 

Mending  stockings  for  busy  mothers  at  a  small  charge  per  pair,  or  per 
dozen,  doing  other  sorts  of  mending,  or  upholstering. 

Saving  money  from  dress,  housekeeping,  railway  fares,  etc.,  and  by 
doing  one’s  own  sewing  and  dressmaking. 

Thankofferings  for  special  mercies,  birthdays,  in  memoriams. 

The  Persis  Band  should  number  as  many  members  as 
possible.  Its  principal  duty  is  to  organize  R.B.H.U.  Work¬ 
ing  Parties  (which  may  be  joined  by  members  and  non¬ 
members)  to  meet  regularly  and  work  for  all  the  world. 
During  the  sewing  hour  some  member  of  the  Band  should 
read  aloud  some  interesting  missionary  book,  or  recent  news 
from  the  front. 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


43 


THE  MACEDON  BAND. 

“And  they  PassinS  by  Mysia  came  down  to  Troas.  And  a  vision  appeared  to  Paul  in  the  night ;  There 
stood  a  man  of  Macedonia,  and  prayed  him,  saying,  1  Come  over  into  Macedonia,  and  help  us.’ 
And  after  he  had  seen  the  vision,  immediately  we  endeavoured  to  go  into  Macedonia,  assuredly 
gathering  that  the  Lord  had  called  us  for  to  preach  the  Gospel  unto  them.” — Acts  xvi.  8-10. 

HE  great  unentered  pagan  world  of  Europe  lay  before  them,  and  they  who 
had  the  light  it  needed— the  light  of  life,  destined  by  God  to  bring 
new  birth  and  uplifting  to  its  millions — had  not  made  a  single  effort 
for  its  enlightenment.  Their  minds  and  hearts  were  centred  on  their 
own  familiar  Churches— Derbe  and  Lystra,  Antioch  and  Iconium,  already 
visited,  and  the  neighbouring  provinces  of  little  Asia  Minor,  still  un- 
ex  angelized ;  Bithynia  on  the  Black  Sea,  lying  to  north  of  them  ;  “Asia,” 
the  disti  ict  to  their  south;  Mysia,  through  which  they  travelled  slowly 
westward— these  were  the  lands  they  thought  of,  longed  to  reach. 

But  God  meant  otherwise. 

They  tiied  to  turn  their  journey  to  the  left,  and  were  “  forbidden.’* 
They  “assayed  to  go”  to  the  right  hand,  “but  the  Spirit  of  Jesus 
suffered  them  not  ”  (R.V.).  So  they  went  on  straight  forward  and 

came  down  to  the  sea  an  ocean  wall  in  front  of  them,  closed  doors  on 
either  hand. 

And  then  there  came  the  Vision,  the  man  of  Macedonia.  Out  of 
the  darkness  of  the  night  he  came  and  “  stood  .  .  beseeching  .  .  saying, 

Come  over  into  Macedonia,  and  help  us  !  ’  ”  So  was  God’s  message 
sent  ;  God’s  way  and  call  made  clear. 

“  Come  over  and  help  us  !  ”  That  prayer  was  needed. 

(1)  Europe  was  unevangelized. 

(2)  God  had  a  chosen  people  among  the  pagans  of  Greece  and  Rome-hearts  SriRiT-prepared  and  waiting  for  the 

Gospel  they  had  never  heard.  (See  Acts  xvi.  14,  30;  xvii.  n  ;  xviii.  10.) 

(3)  The  messengers  were  ready  to  go,  but  waiting  for  directions— for  a  direct  appeal. 

Need  we  draw  the  parallel  ? 

If  to  voice  the  plea  of  heathen  Europe  a  man  of  Macedonia  was  needed,  a  thousand  such 
messengers  are  required  to-day  to  plead  for  the  heathen  world. 

(1)  Two-thirds  of  humanity  have  never  heard  the  Gospel. 

(2)  God  has  a  chosen  people  waiting  “  in  every  nation  ”  ( Acts  xv.  14  ;  Matt.  xxiv.  14 ;  Rev.  xiv.  6)  to  be  brought 

into  His  Church  before  our  Lord’s  return. 

(3)  Messengers  are  ready  to  go  to  them  from  our  home  lands — hundreds  of  young  men  and  women  fit  and  free; 

while  thousands  of  men  and  women  in  our  Churches  hold  the  means  to  send  them  out. 


COME  OVER  AND  HELP  US  1 


44 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


What  is  wanted  to  complete  the  chain — to  link  the  home  resources  to  heathendom’s  great 
need  ?  The  direct  appeal  of  a  human  voice — the  MACEDONIAN  MESSAGE. 

The  MACEDON  BAND  is  composed  of  members  of  the  Branch  who  are  willing  to  speak 
on  missionary  subjects,  either  in  the  town  itself,  or  in  the  neighbouring  villages  or  towns,  so 
that  the  knowledge  of  missionary  work  which  members  have  acquired,  through  their  Berean 
Band  studies  or  otherwise,  may  be  passed  on  for  the  quickening  and  stirring-up  of  others. 

Missionary  lectures,  illustrated  by  slides,  can  be  had  by  Branches  from  the  Loan  Depart¬ 
ment  at  Head-quarters.  Maps,  Diagrams,  Curios,  etc.,  are  also  obtainable  for  the  use  of  Macedon 
Bands  (see  R.B.H.U.  Loan  Department  Catalogue).  With  the  help  of  the  information  they  afford 
a  member  would  be  able  to  visit  a  neighbouring  village  school-room  or  hall  (having  had  his 
or  her  coming  well  announced  beforehand,  by  bills  and  otherwise),  and  conduct  such  a  meeting 
as  might  result  in  the  calling  forth  of  Missionary  Volunteers. 

The  expenses  connected  with  the  Lecture  would  probably  be  more  than  met  by  a  free-will 
offering  taken  up  in  the  meeting. 

INDIVIDUAL  DUTIES  OF  “MACEDON”  MEMBERS. 

Every  member  of  the  Macedon  Band  should — 

(1)  Seek  to  make  himself  conversant  with  some  special  country  or  sphere  in  the  non-Christian 

world ;  to  get  up  facts  about  whatever  land  or  missionary  subject  he  may  choose,  and  to 
prepare  a  brief  and  interesting  missionary  statement  upon  it. 

(2)  To  correct  his  information  by  the  latest  news  and  statistics  from  abroad,  from  time  to  time, 

so  that  his  facts  may  be  always  up  to  date. 

(3)  To  be  ready  to  give  a  short  account  (of  three  minutes  or  upwards)  of  this  special  sphere  at 

any  time  he  or  she  may  be  called  upon  to  do  so  at  an  R.B.H.U.  Meeting,  if  not  abso¬ 
lutely  prevented  by  other  claims. 

(4)  To  endeavour  to  prepare  such  material  as  shall  fit  into  the  ground  covered  by  other 

members  of  the  Band,  so  as  to  help  in  missionary  meetings,  where  needed,  on  the  Group 
System. 

Thus,  if  six  Macedon  Bandsmen  agree  to  take  one  meeting,  they  might  all  choose  China  as 
their  subject,  and  respectively  speak  for  five  or  seven  minutes  apiece  (the  addresses  interspersed 
with  singing)  on  : — 

(1)  Social  life  of  the  Chinese. 

(2)  Religions  of  China. 

(3)  Condition  of  women  and  children. 

(4)  The  history  of  China,  and  history  of  Missions  in  China. 

(5)  The  present  missionary  staff  in  the  field 

(6)  Missionary  needs —  number  of  heathen  in  China  unreached — appeal  of  the  Shanghai 

Conference  for  1,000  more  workers;  etc. 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


45 


The  above  plan,  with  modifications,  might  be  applied  to  any  country,  and  carried  out  by  a 
varying  number  of  speakers,  from  two  or  three  up  to  twenty  or  more.  The  greater  the  number 
of  speakers  that  take  part,  the  shorter  will  be  the  time  allotted  to  each  one. 

Missionary  meetings  worked  on  the  Group  System  involve  a  minimum  of  labour  and 
study  for  each  speaker,  and  often  a  maximum  of  information  and  interest  to  the  audience.  If 
the  number  of  speakers  is  limited  to  three,  some  such  division  as  the  following  might  be  taken, 
for  instance,  The  Congo  Free  State  : — 

(1)  Story  of  the  geographical  exploration  of  the  Congo. 

(2)  Manners  and  customs  of  the  people. 

(3)  Missions  on  the  Congo. 

In  this  case,  it  would  be  best  to  give  the  larger  share  of  time  to  the  last  speaker,  who 
should  be  thoroughly  qualified  by  study  for  his  task. 


CORPORATE  DUTIES  OF  THE  MACEDON  BAND. 

(1)  To  carefully  prepare  programmes  for  Macedon  Meetings  on  the  Group  System,  giving 

all  members  opportunity  to  take  part. 

(2)  To  help,  by  arranging  one  or  two  five  to  ten  minutes  addresses,  at  the  Branch  Prayer 

Meetings  ;  and  to  assist  regularly  at  the  Monthly  All-the-World  Meeting  of  the 
Branch,  undertaking  the  entire  programme  of  that  Meeting,  if  so  desired  by  the  Secretary 
and  Committee  (see  page  47). 

(3)  To  seek  openings  in  s-.urrounding  villages  and  hamlets. 

(4)  To  decide  on  some  place  where  the  needs  of  heathendom  are  not  frequently  presented, 

and  endeavour  to  create  hearty  missionary  interest  there  by  holding  a  Macedon 
Meeting,  which  should  be  undertaken  by  several  members  of  the  Band,  accompanied  by 
members  of  the  Silas  Band,  and  any  others  who  may  wish  to  make  the  effort  a  success. 

(5)  To  seek  to  make  new  R.B.H.U.  members  in  every  district  visited  ;  and  to  maintain  their 

interest  and  develop  their  usefulness  by  subsequent  meetings  and  organization. 

(6)  To  exchange  visits  wfith  other  R.B.H.U.  Branches — should  there  be  any  in  the  neighbour¬ 

hood — thus  interchanging  thought  and  interest. 

(7)  To  carry  on  Progressive  Study  of  the  great  world-field,  so  as  to  present  at  the  Weekly 

and  Monthly  Meetings  as  many  spheres  as  possible.  Freshness  and  interest  are  often 
secured  by  varying  the  style  of  the  programme. 

The  study  undertaken  by  the  Macedon  Band  members  will  help  them  to  pray  intelli¬ 
gently  at  the  Branch  Meetings,  and  to  contribute  materially  to  the  missionary  usefulness  and 
power  of  the  Branch.  While  some  Bands  may  be  small,  the  Macedon  membership  should 
number  as  many  as  possible.  No  Band  of  the  Union  calls  for  more  prayerful,  earnest  work,  or 
has  a  more  important  sphere  to  fill  bv  the  grace  of  God. 


46 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


CHAPTER  VI. 


R.B.H.U.  Branch  Meeting's. 


UT  on  the  ocean  sailing  to  their  far  distant  spheres,  or 
patiently  toiling  on,  unseen,  year  after  year,  amid  the  dis¬ 
couragements  and  deadening  influences  of  heathendom, 
our  missionary  fellow  workers  are  bravely  doing  their 
share  in  The  Greatest  Task  of  To-day.  And  we  at  home, 
by  the  very  fact  that  we  “  belong  to  Christ/'*  are  as 
much  bound  as  they  to  work  for  all  the  world. 

One  of  the  most  effective  forms  of  missionary 
service  is  to  spread  missionary  information  and  interest 
at  home  by  organizing  strong,  effective  Missionary 
Meetings. 

Every  Branch  of  the  Regions  Beyond  Helpers’ 
Union  ought  to  hold  a  Prayer  Meeting  once  a  week. 

e  feel  this  point  to  be  one  of  such  paramount  im¬ 
portance  that  we  should  like  to  make  it  a  sine  qud  non 
oi  the  existence  of  a  Branch  ;  but  circumstances  may 
sometimes  prevent  such  an  arrangement  being  carried  out.  If  possible,  however,  each  Branch 
should  arrange  to  hold  a 


WEEKLY  PRAYER  MEETING, 

even  if  only  half-a-dozen  can  attend.  This  meeting  may  be  limited,  if  wished,  to  half-an-hour ; 
but  should  not  be  less  than  twenty  minutes  in  length.  If  the  Branch  is  connected  with  a 
Church,  twenty  minutes  of  the  usual  weekly  Church  prayer  meeting  might  be  devoted  to  the 
needs  of  the  heathen  and  Mohammedan  world.  Pastors  would  find  fresh  life  and  widened 
interest  brought  by  this  means  into  their  usual  gatherings.  And  as  theMACEDON  Band  will  be 
always  ready  to  give,  if  required,  brief,  bright  missionary  statements  at  such  meetings,  the  work 
of  getting  facts  suited  to  call  forth  prayer  for  all  the  world  will  not  be  difficult. 

In  cases  where  the  Branch  is  not  connected  with  a  Church,  its  prayer  meeting  will 
naturally  be  arranged  on  wholly  missionary  lines. 


*  Mark  ix.  41. 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


47 


II.  ALL-THE-WORLD  MEETING. 

The  sine  qua  non  of  the  existence  of  an  R.B.H.U.  Branch  is  the  holding  of  a  monthly 
meeting  to  think  of  heathendom,  learn  about  its  needs,  lead  to  more  effective  effort  on  its 
behalf,  and  especially  to  give  opportunity  for  united  prayer  for  the  evangelization  of  the 
world  in  this  generation. 

The  monthly  All-the-World  Meeting  should  form  a  regular  bond  between  all  members 
in  the  locality.  Each  one  should  make  a  special  point  of  being  present,  and  the  Secretary  should, 
if  possible,  arrange  to  have  the  names  of  all  members  attending  recorded  by  a  registrar.  The 
meeting  should  be  bright  and  earnest. 

(1)  Let  everything,  praying,  singing,  reading  the  Scriptures,  or  speaking,  be  brief  and  to  the  point,  so  that  as 

many  as  possible  may  take  part. 

(2)  It  is  better  to  have  a  dozen  or  more  short  prayers,  one  after  another  by  different  members,  than  for  one  or 

two  to  monopolise  the  time  set  apart  for  prayer.  Sometimes  try  having  a  Chain  of  Prayer,  in  which- 
each  one  who  prays  offers  a  single  petition,  without  formal  commencement  or  conclusion — a  link  in  a  chain, 
taken  up  and  carried  on  by  others,  opened  by  a  single  appeal  to  The  Father,  ended  by  one  Amen.  The 
effect  of  such  a  Chain  of  Prayer— if  it  be  true  prayer— is  touching  and  powerful.  And  the  method 
often  helps  to  open  the  lips  of  younger  members  who  would  gladly  offer  a  single  petition,  though  they 
shrink  from  commencing  a  set  “  prayer.” 

(3)  Frequent  singing,  even  if  only  a  single  verse  or  chorus,  is  helpful,  as  it  enables  all  to  give  expression  to 

their  hearts  desires  together.  Care  is  needed  in  the  choice  of  hymns  and  choruses,  and  this  matter  is 
worthy  of  the  special  attention  of  the  leader  of  the  meeting,  helped  by  the  Silas  Band. 

R.B.H.U.  Song  Sheets  can  be  had  from  Harley  House,  at  a  small  cost,  and  will  be  found  very  useful  for  ali 
meetings. 

(4)  The  Form  of  the  Meeting  should  vary  month  by  month,  anything  like  a  stereotyped  order  of  procedure  being 

avoided.  Sometimes  a  short  address  might  be  given  by  one  of  the  members  on  some  missionary  topic, 
and  discussion  be  afteiwards  invited,  the  speakers  being  limited  to  a  few  minutes  each.  This  will  stimulate 
study  and  awaken  interest.  Our  Prayer  Roll  Papers  and  Lending  Library  will  come  into  requisition  for 
this  purpose. 

Question  and  Answer  Evenings  are  stimulating  and  bright,  if  well  conducted,  and  might  form  the  programme 
of  the  All-the-World  Meeting  from  time  to  time.  For  these,  a  dozen  members  of  the  Macedon  Band 
(or  other  R.B.H.U.  members)  should  prepare  a  dozen  questions,  each  member  asking  a  question,  and 
being  prepared  to  answer  a  question  asked  by  someone  else.  The  answers  should  be  prayerfully  prepared 
beforehand  by  those  who  take  them  up. 

(5)  The  place  for  the  All-the-World  Meeting  will  vary  with  the  size  and  condition  of  the  Branch.  It  is 

quite  possible,  and  sometimes  best,  to  start  Branch  work  on  a  small  scale,  with  perhaps  a  dozen  or  two 
members.  In  this  case,  the  monthly  meeting  might  at  first  be  held  in  the  drawing-rooms  of  private  houses, 
and  move  from  house  to  house  from  month  to  month.  But,  please  God,  every  Branch  should  quickly 
grow  too  large  for  private  houses  to  accommodate. 

In  some  cases,  the  weekly  Prayer  Meetings  might,  perhaps,  be  held  in  different  drawing-rooms,  and  the 
monthly  All-the-World  Meeting  at  a  larger  central  hall. 


48 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


III.  THE  DEVOTIONAL  MEETING. 

The  R.B.H.U.  Quarterly  Devotional  Meeting  should  be  made  a  real  spiritual 
power.  Its  object  is  two-fold — primarily,  to  help  in  deepening  the  spiritual  life  of  members 
of  the  Branch  ;  and,  secondly,  to  check  the  list  of  members  by  means  of  the  Roll  Call. 

The  calling  of  the  Roll  should  be  during  the  progress  of  the  meeting,  so  that  each  member 
may  respond  to  his  name  by  a  Scripture  quotation,  a  few  words  of  prayer,  the  verse  of  a  hymn, 
a  chorus,  or  a  brief  personal  testimony.  Where  the  meeting  is  a  large  one,  each  response 
should  be  restricted  to  a  minute,  or  less  if  necessary. 

IV.  MISSIONARY  SOCIAL. 

The  All-the-World  Meeting  should  occasionally  be  preceded  by  a  Tea,  which  would 
greatly  help  to  maintain  a  cordial  relationship  between  the  members,  Preparations  would  be 
undertaken  by  the  Martha  Band.  Where  there  are  several  Branches  in  one  town  or 
neighbourhood,  they  might  arrange  their  quarterly  or  half-yearly  meetings  in  concert,  and  also 
co-operate  in  promoting  a  united  Missionary  Demonstration  from  time  to  time.  Especially 
should  they  unite  to  welcome  well-known  missionaries  and  lecturers  who  might  be  induced  to 
visit  the  district.  Branch  Secretaries  should  keep  in  touch  with  one  another,  and  endeavour  to 
promote  unity  among  all  members. 

V.  “MISSIONARY  DAY”  YEARLY  MEETING. 

Each  Branch  should  hold  a  Yearly  Meeting,  which  might,  if  the  Branch  was  strong  enough, 
take  the  form  of  a  Missionary  Day,  with  some  such  programme  as  follows: — 


Missionary  Breakfast  and  brief  address .  9  a.m. 

Devotional  Meeting .  10.30 — 11  a.m. 

Morning  Session,  two  addresses  of  half  an  hour  each  ..  ..  ..  11.15  a.m. — 12.30p.m. 

Lunch..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  1  p.m. 

Afternoon  Session.  In  charge  of  the  Macedon  and  Silas  Band  ..  ..  3.30 — 5  p.m. 

Prayer  Meeting  for  members  only .  6.30  p.m. 

Yearly  Meeting  (Branch  Report  by  Secretary,  followed  by  addresses)  ..  7— 9  p.m. 


Prayerfully  organized  and  thoroughly  carried  out,  such  a  Missionary  Day  might  prove  a 
mighty  power  for  blessing  to  the  neighbourhood  and  to  the  world.  Good  speakers  should,  of 
course,  be  secured  for  the  principal  meetings,  from  a  distance  if  necessary.  But  opportunity 
should  also  be  given  to  R.B.H.U.  members  to  take  part. 

All  meetings  of  the  Union  should  be  primarily  seasons  of  spiritual  refreshment  and 
strengthening.  “Ask,  and  ye  shall  receive.” 

It  is  evident  at  a  glance  how  easily  these  R.B.H.U.  meetings  might  work  in  with  existing 
church  gatherings,  if  the  Union  were  taken  up  by  Pastor  and  Congregation.  Twenty  minutes  at 
the  weekly  prayer  meeting  ;  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  an  hour,  once  a  month,  for  “All  the 
World”  ;  and  a  good  R.B.H.U.  Yearly  Meeting,  is  all  that  the  Union  suggests.  These  gatherings 
might  well  be  linked  with  the  ordinary  church  meetings,  and  are  surely  little  enough  for  any 
Church  to  give  to  the  greatest  task  of  to-day — the  evangelization  of  the  world  in  our  own 
generation. 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


49 


Rules  of  the  Union. 

r 

MEMBERSHIP. 

1.  — No  one  can  be  a  member  of  the  Union  who  has  not  signed  the  R.B.H.U.  Pledge. 

OFFICIAL  POSTS. 

2.  — None  but  R.B.H.U.  members  are  eligible  for  any  official  post  connected  with  the 
Union,  or  can  work  on  any  R.B.H.U.  Band.  R.B.H.U.  members  of  either  sex  are  eligible 
for  all  posts  connected  with  the  Union. 

RESIGNATION.  TRANSFERENCE  OF  BOX,  ETC. 

3.  — Any  member  wishing  to  withdraw  from  a  Branch  must  send  in  his  resignation, 
with  his  reason  tor  the  change,  to  the  Secretary,  to  be  brought  before  the  Committee,  which 
will  recommend  the  Branch  to  accept  the  resignation,  or  will  hold  it  over  until  the  resigning 
member  can  be  interviewed.  If  the  resignation  is  accepted,  the  member  resigning  must  return 
his  box  to  the  Secretary. 

4.  — Members  may  withdraw  Irom  a  local  Branch  without  severing  their  connection  with 
the  Union  (see  page  27).  In  this  case,  the  box  may  be  retained,  and  after  notification  to 
Head-quarters,  The  Regions  Beyond  will  be  forwarded  direct,  instead  of  through  the  Branch. 

5. — Members  unconnected  with  any  Branch,  who  wish  to  resign  their  membership, 
must  notify  their  intention  to  Head-quarters,  and  must  either  return  the  box  to  Harley 
House  or  transfer  it  to  a  new  member. 

6. — In  the  case  of  transference  of  the  box  to  another  member,  it  is  absolutely 
■essential  that  Head-quarters  should  be  acquainted  with  the  fact,  as  also  with  the  number  of  the 
box  and  the  name  and  address  of  the  person  to  whom  it  is  transferred. 

7. — Any  member  failing  to  forward  the  contents  of  his  Carey  box  to  Head-quarters  during 
two  consecutive  half-years  shall  be  considered  to  have  forfeited  his  membership. 

8.  — Persons  who  have  forfeited  their  mfmbership  may  be  re-admitted  on  the 
recommendation  of  the  Barnabas  Band  and  Branch  Secretary ;  or,  if  there  be  no  Branch 
in  their  locality,  on  that  of  some  minister. 

ATTENDANCE  AT  MEETINGS. 

9'  is  hoped  that  all  members  will,  as  tar  as  possible,  take  part  at  the  Prayer  Meetings,  as 
well  as  at  the  All-the- World  and  other  R.B.H.U.  gatherings  but  if  any  member,  from  any 
cause,  should  fail  to  attend  three  consecutive  monthly  meetings,  he  should  send  a  note  to  the 
Secretary  explaining  his  absence. 

BAND  REPORTS. 

10.— All  Bands  should  report  progress  to  the  Branch  Committee  once  a  month. 


NO  CHANGES  IN  THE  PRINCIPLES  OF  THE  REGIONS  BEYOND  HELPERS'  UNION  CAN  BE  MADE 
WITHOUT  THE  SANCTION  OF  THE  HEAD-QUARTERS  COUNCIL.  ANY  CRITICISMS  AND  ADVICE,  FROM 
INDIVIDUAL  MEMBERS  AND  FROM  BRANCHES,  AS  TO  R.B.H.U.  METHODS  AND  WORK,  WILL  BE  WEL¬ 
COMED  by  the  Council,  which  will  take  all  such  suggestions  into  prayerful  consideration 

•AND  EARNESTLY  ENDEAVOUR  TO  MAKE  WHATEVER  CHANGES  SEEM  NEEDED  AND  ADVISABLE. 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


-THE  R.B.H.U.  LOAN  DEPARTMENT. 


N  this  Department,  at  present  necessarily  imperfect,  because  in  an  early 
IjjLjijj.  stage  of  its  existence,  we  hope  soon,  God  willing,  to  have  enough  stock  to 
supply  all  the  Branches  of  the  Union  with  maps,  diagrams,  curios,  books, 
and  slides.  During  many  years  a  goodly  collection  of  missionary  objects 
of  interest  has  been  accumulating  at  Harley  House,  and  these  we  are  at  present 
so  arranging  as  to  render  them  available  for  R.B.H.U.  work.  Our  collection 
includes  many  hundreds  of  curios  from  China,  Japan,  Korea,  Burmah,  India, 
Ceylon,  Asia  Minor,  Palestine,  Egypt,  Turkey,  and  various  parts  of  Africa,  the 
South  Sea  Islands,  etc.  If  friends  can  help  us  to  increase  the  value  of  this  section, 
by  sending  foreign  curios  to  the  Union,  we  shall  be  able  to  turn  their  gifts  to 
good  account. 

The  R.B.H.U.  Library  is  small  but  useful,  containing  such  books  as  have 
been  proved  by  the  various  Missionary  Societies  to  be  in  demand  amongst  their 
readers.  We  hope  soon  to  be  enabled,  by  the  generosity  of  R.B.H.U.  members 
and  other  friends,  to  extend  our  borders  in  this  direction.  The  Library  forms  the 
most  important  feature  of  the  Department,  and  good  donations  to  it,  either  in  the 
form  of  books  or  funds,  will  be  very  welcome. 

Our  Maps,  many  of  which  have  been  specially  produced  for  us,  will  prove  thoroughly 
serviceable  in  the  Branch  Meetings  of  the  Union.  They  are  of  various  sizes  to  suit  every 
building,  and  cover  all  heathen  lands. 

Missionary  Mottoes  and  Texts  not  only  lighten  a  hall,  but  prove  a  great  source  of 
inspiration.  We  have  quite  a  variety  of  these,  in  different  sizes,  for  lectures  and  small  meetings. 

Diagrams  and  Braid  Sermons  for  use  in  Missionary  Meetings  have  been  made  a 
specialty  at  Head-quarters,  and  the  efforts  of  the  diligent  workers  who  have  undertaken  this 
department  will  meet  with  much  appreciation. 

Lantern  Lectures  and 
Slides  are  all-important,  and  are 
receiving  the  personal  attention  of 
Dr.  Harry  Guinness,  who  has  made 
this  method  of  Missionary  Lecture 
his  special  study.  Many  hundreds 
of  beautiful  slides  are  already  at  the 
disposal  of  the  Union,  and  lectures 
are  being  prepared  which  will  be 
of  service,  God  willing,  not  only  to 
many  of  our  Branches,  but  through 
them  to  the  whole  heathen  world. 

The  R.B.H.U.  Loan  De¬ 
partment  Catalogue  may  be 
ordered  from  Harlev  House. 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


5i 


CHAPTER  VII. 


The  Message  to  Archippus. 

An  open  Letter  to  Ministers,  Pastors,  Association  Secre¬ 
taries,  and  leading  Christian  Workers. 

“  There  is  that  scatter  eth,  and  yet  increaseth  ;  and  there  is  that  withholdeth  more  than  is  meet,  but 
it  tendeth  to  poverty.  The  liberal  soul  shall  be  made  fat:  and  he  that  water eth  shall  be  watered  also 
himself.” — Proverbs  xi.  24-25. 

“He  which  soweth  sparingly  shall  reap  also  sparingly  ;  and  he  which  someth  bountifully  shall  reap 
also  bountifully.” — 2  Cor.  ix.  6. 

“  The  liberal  deviseth  liberal  things  ;  and  by  liberal  things  shall  he  stand.” — Is.  xxxii.  8. 

“God  is  not  unrighteous  to  forget  your  work  and  .  .  .  love.” — Heb.  vi.  10. 

“  Inasmuch  as  ye  did  it  not  to  one  of  the  least  of  these,  ye  did  it  not  to  Me.” — Matt.  xxv.  45. 

“  To  remember  the  words  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  how  He  said  :  *  It  is  more  blessed  to  give  than  to 
receive.'  ” — Acts  xx.  35. 

HE  was  Paul’s  “fellow  soldier,”  and  his  name  was  Archippus.  Beyond  that  we  know 
scarcely  anything  about  him,  except  that  he  belonged  to  and  ministered  in  the  early 
Church  at  Colosse,  and  that  Paul  sent  him  a  message  in  his  letter  to  the  Colossians. 

The  message  was  little  more  than  a  dozen  words  in  length,  but  how  much  it  holds  and 
reveals — “  Say  to  Archippus,  ‘  Take  heed  to  the  ministry  which  thou  hast  received  in  the  Lord, 
that  thou  fulfil  it.'  ” 


52 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


He  had  a  work,  then,  to  do  ;  a  work  evidently  GoD-given,  a  special  “  ministry,  for  which 
he  individually  was  responsible,  and  whose  execution  was  so  important  that  the  Spirit  of  Jesus, 
speaking  through  Paul,  drew  special  attention  to  it.  But  more.  He  was  in  danger  of 
neglecting  that  ministry,  of  forgetting  his  call. 


“GO  YE  INTO  ALL  THE  WORLD  AND  PREACH  THE  GOSPEL  TO  EVERY  CREATURE.” 

Mark  x vi.  15. 

This  command  of  the  Lord  Jesus  is  clear,  comprehensive,  and  unlimited.  It  touches  the 
heart,  kindles  the  imagination,  and  fires  the  zeal  of  every  true  servant  of  Christ.  No  one 
knows  so  well  as  the  hard  working  pastors  of  our  Churches  the  great  need  there  is  of  constantly 
and  prayerfully  reconsidering  this  passage  of  Scripture,  in  order  that  its  sublime  teachings  may 
not  lose  their  effect,  and  its  holy  commands  become  inoperative. 

Yet,  probably  not  more  than  one  in  a  hundred  congregations  are  deeply  interested 
in  sending  the  Gospel  to  the  heathen.  Though  “God  so  loved  the  world”  that  He  gave  His 
Son  to  die  for  it ;  though  we  are  told  to  be  “imitators  of  God,  as  dear  children,”  one  Christian 
in  ten  is,  perhaps,  interested  in  Missions.  A  visit  from  a  representative  of  some  Society  stirs, 
once  a  year,  the  feelings  of  the  people.  He  comes  from  some  Mohammedan  or  Heathen  land,  and 
gives  the  congregation  a  glimpse  into  another  world,  and  some  striking  facts  and  figures, 
together  with  admonitions  about  the  duty  of  Christians  towards  the  unevangelized.  Interest  is 
aroused.  The  people  give  towards  the  collection  which  follows,  and  there  the  matter  rests  for 
another  year.  Even  this  languid  and  ineffective  amount  of  co-operation  does  not  exist  in 
many  Churches  ;  they  neither  hear,  nor  think,  nor  pray  about  Missions,  nor  care  in  any  practical 
way  for  the  Heathen.  They  simply  ignore  the  fact  that  Christianity,  with  all  its  blessings,  has 
as  yet  reached  only  one-third  of  the  human  race. 

WHOSE  FAULT  IS  THIS? 

With  pain,  but  with  profound  conviction,  we  reply  it  is  the  fault  of  the  ministers  and 
leading  Christian  workers  at  home.  Leadership  involves  responsibility.  If  the  campaign  is 
disastrous,  the  general  is  blamed  ;  if  the  sheep  go  wrong,  it  is  the  shepherd’s  fault ;  if  the 
scholars  are  illiterate,  the  teacher  is  called  to  account.  So,  if  the  Church  is  apathetic  about 
Missions,  surely  her  leaders  are  to  blame.  To  keep  the  Church  fulfilling  the  foreign  missionary 
ministry  she  has  “received  of  the  Lord,”  it  is  necessary  to  awaken  and  sustain  wide-spread 
interest  in  all  Christian  congregations — an  interest  not  fitful,  as  on  the  occasion  of  an  annual 
missionary  sermon,  but  constant  and  continuous. 

How  is  this  possible  ? 

The  answer  lies  with  the  leaders  of  the  Church.  It  is  within  their  power  to  give  such  an 
impetus  to  this  cause,  that  within  ten  years  its  prospects  would  be,  in  thousands  of  centres,  the 
reverse  of  what  they  are  to-day.  A  noble  donor  to  Foreign  Missions  well  asks — 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


53 


“  Can  it  be  right  to  bestow — as  the  Churches  of  to-day  are  doing — upon  the  hundred  millions  of 
England  and  America  nine-tenths  of  all  the  great  funds  gathered  in  these  two  countries  for  Christian 
purposes,  and  to  reserve  only  one  poor  tenth  for  the  perishing  one  thousand  and  thirty  millions  of 
Heathen,  Mohammedans,  and  Jews  in  the  rest  of  the  world  ? 

“  Is  the  preponderance  of  personal  effort  and  a  lavish  expenditure  to  be  applied,  generation 
after  generation,  in  a  repetition  of  the  story  of  grace  to  gospel-hardened  sinners  and  CHRiST-rejectors 
within  the  little  area  of  these  lands,  whilst  the  great  masses  of  mankind  on  distant  continents  are 
allowed  to  grope  in  the  dark,  and  to  perish  for  lack  of  knowledge  ? 

“  There  is  needed  a  revival  of  discipline  among  us  to  reach  all  who  avow  and  confess  themselves- 
Christians,  but  who  avoid  all  share  in  cross-bearing  and  watching  for  souls.  I  appeal  to  the  Christian 
ministry.  Is  it  not  within  their  power  to  make  church  membership  a  greater  reality,  less  easy  of 
access  to  the  slothful  servant,  and  more  influential  for  blessing  in  the  persons  of  those  who  come,  full  of 
first  love  and  ready  to  work  for  the  Master,  but  who  have  no  distinct  post  assigned  to  them,  and,  for 
want  of  guidance  and  authoritative  direction,  become  idlers  in  the  market-place  ?  What  a  change 
would  come  over  the  face  of  our  Home  and  Foreign  Mission-fields  were  our  church  members  set  to 
work — “  all  at  it ,  and  always  at  it.''  * 

WIDE  AND  CONSTANT  INTEREST  NEEDED. 

“It  is  not  ”  continues  the  same  writer,  “by  looking  ‘every  man  on  his  own  things’  that 
we  get  the  hearts  of  men  touched  and  their  purse  strings  untied.  It  is  by  the  cultivation  of  a 
large  and  catholic  interest  in  every  part  of  the  great  harvest-field.  Much  of  the  straitness  which 
is  felt  to  be  starving  good  works  at  home  is  due  to  the  neglect  of  the  glorious  work  abroad,  so 
rarely  pressed  upon  the  people  as  the  object  most  dear  to  the  Saviour’s  heart.  Were  it 
made  the  subject  of  weekly  prayer,  of  frequent  preaching,  and  of  habitual  mention  at 
week-night  services ;  if  ministers  and  teachers  would  but  follow  the  apostolic  example 
narrated  in  Acts  xxi.  19,  and  ‘  declare  particularly  what  things  God  had  wrought  among  the 
Gentiles'  by  the  hands  of  Foreign  Missionaries  in  these  very  days  in  which  we  live,  would 
not  God  be  glorified  and  His  great  work  intensified  in  the  hearts  of  believing  people,  and 
soon  He  would  bring  them  ‘  into  a  wealthy  place’  ? 

“Is  there  not  a  cause  for  appealing  to  all  who  can  in  any  way  help  to  change  the 
narrow,  stereotyped  treatment  which  the  Foreign  Mission  enterprise  receives  at  the  hands 
of  us  dwellers  at  home  ?  ” 

DIFFICULTY  OF  REALIZING  THE  IDEAL. 

Many  Christian  ministers,  who  are  deeply  in  earnest  in  prosecuting  the  work  which 
the  Master  has  given  them  to  do,  are  ready  to  admit  that  they  have  not  given  due  heed 
to  Foreign  Missions,  because  of  daily  claims  upon  their  time  and  energies,  such  as  the  sins  and 
sorrows  of  our  own  streets  and  lanes  have  laid  heavily  upon  them.  They  realize  that  to 
devote  the  whole  force  and  resources  of  an  entire  section  of  the  Church  of  Christ,  or  of  any 

*  The  Rightful  Claims  of  Foreign  Missions. — James  E.  Mathieson. 


54 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


one  Church,  to  a  few  spots  in  the  world,  is  to  fail  in  implicit  obedience  to  the  Divine 
command.  When  this  all  but  uniform  practice  is  compared,  on  the  one  hand,  with  the  great 
commission,  and,  on  the  other,  with  the  vast  non-Christian  world,  it  is  seen  that  something  is 
wrong. 

It  is  at  this  point  that  many  earnest  men  feel  their  difficulties  begin,  and  these  appear 
.almost,  if  not  quite,  insurmountable.  The  efficient  maintenance  of  the  varied  organizations  ot 
home  work,  the  pressing  need  of  denominational  societies — both  home  and  foreign,  tax  to  the 
utmost  the  strength  and  resources  of  both  pastors  and  people.  It  is  very  keenly  felt  by  many, 
that  if  some  scheme  could  be  devised  that  would  meet  the  case,  without  diminishing  contribu¬ 
tions  to  denominational  societies,  it  would  be  a  great  boon,  and  be  heartily  welcomed. 

Pastors  are  also  earnestly  solicitous  that  there  should  be  a  deeper  and  wider  interest  in 
Missions,  an  interest  as  world-wide  as  the  words  of  Jesus  ;  but  their  difficulty  is  that  a  large 
proportion  of  the  Church  and  congregation,  both  young  and  old,  are  not  alive  to  the  world’s 
need,  or  to  the  binding  nature  of  the  Lord’s  command.  Can  anything  be  done  to  remedy  this 
-state  of  things,  to  awaken  people  into  holy  activity  for  the  world’s  evangeliz -tion  ?  It  is  a  well 
recognised  fact  that  those  in  our  Churches,  congregations,  and  schools,  who  are  most  alive  on 
missionary  questions,  are  the  best  members,  and  bring  most  life  into  the  prayer  meetings;  are 
the  best  workers  and  givers,  and  are  always  ready  for  any  Christian  enterprise.  The  awakening 
of  a  missionary  spirit  is  the  sure  outcome  of  revival  of  Christian  life  and  activity,  and  is  followed 
by  an  increased,  and  not  a  diminished,  exchequer;  for  the  best  friends  of  Foreign  Missions  are 
the  best  friends  of  home  work. 

Suggestions  offered  by  the  Union. 

The  plans  embodied  in  this  book  seek  to  meet  these  pressing  needs,  and  provide  for  these 
.acknowledged  wants.  As  sharers  in  a  great  neglect,  and  not  as  censors,  do  we  venture  to  urge 
upon  the  attention  of  ministers  and  leaders  in  the  Christian  world  the  suggestions  and  methods 
of  the  Regions  Beyond  Helpers’  Union — suggestions  which,  were  they  widely  adopted 
.and  carried  out,  would  bring  the  dawning  of  a  brighter  day  in  many  a  heathen  sphere. 

Recognising  that  apathy  about  Foreign  Missions  is  due  to — 

i.  Lack  of  sympathy  with  Jesus  Christ,* **  2.  Ignorance,  3.  Inactivity, 

The  Regions  Beyond  Helpers’  Union  seeks  to  remedy  this  state  of  things  by  leading 
Christians,  young  and  old,  to — 

1.  Missionary  prayer,  2.  Missionary  study,  and  3.  Missionary  effort. 

Church  and  Denominational  Missionary  Unions — such  as  the  C.M.S.  Gleaners’  Union,  the 
L.M.S.  Watchers’  Bands,  etc. — already  exist  for  the  same  purpose,  and  we  most  cordially  admire 
their  work  and  sympathize,  heart  and  soul,  with  their  efforts.  But,  in  these  days  of  broadening 
Christian  sympathy,  is  there  not  room  for  something  more  ?  Is  it  not  fit,  now  that,  in  the  providence 

*  Is  it  possible  for  those  who  do  not  share  Christ's  yearning  for  the  salvation  of  the  world  to  be  Christians  t 

**  If  any  man  have  ?iot  the  Spirit  of  Christ  he  is  none  of  His.” 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


55 


ot  God,  interdenominational  missions  are  arising — such  as  the  China  Inland  Mission,  the  North 
and  South  Africa  Missions,  the  Congo-Balolo  Mission,  Ceylon  and  Indian  General  Mission, 
etc. — interdenominational  missionary  organization  should  exist,  a  helper  of  all  ?  Fresh 
exigencies  abroad  demand  fresh  adjustment  at  home. 

The  Regions  Beyond  Helpers’  Union  does  not  seek  to  enter  spheres  already  occupied  by 
other  organizations  ;  but,  in  view  of  the  fact  that  in  thousands  of  Churches  no  such  effort  for  the 
foreign  field  exists,  and  that  thousands  of  Christians  are  doing  little  or  nothing  for  the  evan¬ 
gelization  of  the  world,  we  feel  it  has  a  place — - 

1.  In  the  Churches  : — Many  would  like  to  be  connected  with  a  Union,  which,  while 
forwarding  the  interests  of  their  own  denomination,  would  also  help  the  cause  of  Christ 
in  heathen  lands  where  their  Church  is  not  labouring. 

2.  In  interdenominational  organizations  :  —  Young  Men’s  and  Young  Women’s 
Christian  Associations’  Missions,  College  and  University  Christian  Unions,  Societies  of 
Christian  Endeavour,  etc. 

In  commending  the  Union  to  such  Churches  and  organizations,  we  should  like  to  draw 
attention  to  some  of  its  characteristic  features. 

advantages  of  the  union. 

1.  ITS  INTERDENOMINATIONAL  BASIS.  (See  Basis,  f.  13.) 

2.  ITS  DEFINITE  PLEDGE. — One  of  the  most  fruitful  sources  of  failure,  weakness,  and 
neglect  in  the  missionary  service  of  most  Christians  is  simple  indefiniteness.  The  R.B.H.U.  Pledge 
summarises  our  four  principal  duties  to  the  non-Christian  world,  and  records  the  resolution  of  each 
member  to  fulfil  those  duties,  by  the  grace  of  God.* 

3.  ITS  WORLD  WIDE  SCOPE.  — The  use  of  the  world-wide  Prayer  Roll,  with  its  fresh 
subjects  for  sympathy  and  petition,  is  most  desirable  for  the  reality,  life,  and  power  of  individual 
and  collective  missionary  prayer.  Intensity  of  devotion  is  fed  by  what  is  daily  learnt  of  the 
condition  of  the  heathen,  the  heroic  lives  and  deaths  of  missionaries,  and  the  successful  preaching 
of  the  Gospel  in  all  lands.  The  R.B.H.U.  Prayer  Roll  is  drawn  up  on  a  world-basis,  without 
reference  to  any  sectional  view  of  missionary  work  (see  p.  17).  The  union  is  founded  with  a 
view  to  “all  the  world,”  and  we  trust  that  the  hand  of  God  may  lead  to  constant  development  of. 
its  work  and  influence  along  the  broadest  missionary  lines. 

4.  ITS  MAGAZINE  — The  Regions  Beyond — which,  representing  world-wide  missionary  interests-, 
is  sent  free,  monthly,  to  all  members. 

5.  ITS  MISSIONARY  EXAMINATIONS,  carried  on  quarterly  through  The  Regions  Beyond r  under 
a  five-fold  series,  with  prizes  for  the  successful,  are  a  powerful  stimulus  to  missionary  study  and  interest. 

*  Is  the  pledge  too  binding?  Do  its  promises  form  a  “  vow  "  from  which  any  Christian  might  shrink  ?  We  think  not. 
We  believe  them  to  be  absolutely  essential  to  every  faithful  Christian  life. 

Christ  has  commanded  us  (1)  to  pray  for  the  world— Matt.  ix.  37-38;  (2)  to  study  its  needs— John  iv.  35  ;  (3)  to  give 
ourselves  and  our  substance  to  meet  those  needs—  1  John  iii.  16-18  ;  and  (4)  to  “ preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature  " — Mark  xvi.  15. 

The  signer  of  the  R.B.H.U.  Pledge  simply  says  “/  will"  to  each  of  these  injunctions.  Can  a  true  follower  of  Jesus> 
do  less  ? 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


6.  ITS  BAND  SYSTEM  offers  material  advantages  to  any  group  of  workers  for  Missions, 
placing  thorough  organization  within  everyone’s  grasp.  By  the  blessing  of  God,  the  Bands  should 
create  new  interest  in  many,  and  bring  a  direct  increase  of  spiritual  life  into  missionary  work. 

7.  ITS  LOAN  DEPARTMENT  and  Suggestions  for  Missionary  Meetings  will  facilitate 
and  brighten  many  a  gathering.  The  Union  maps,  diagrams,  curios,  books,  and  lantern  lectures, 
will  be  increasingly  appreciated  with  the  growing  efficiency  of  this  department. 

8.  ITS  SPECIAL  ATTRACTIVENESS  TO  YOUNG  PEOPLE  is  an  important  feature.  The 
R.B.H.U.  seeks  to  do  for  Christ  and  Missions  a  similar  work  to  that  done  by  the  Y.P.S.C.E.  “for 
Christ  and  the  Church.” 

9.  IT  SETS  EVERYONE  TO  WORK. — Leading  Christians,  young  and  old,  to  realize  the 
needs  of  heathendom,  and  the  profound  responsibility  they  lay  on  every  Christian,  it  promotes  study 
of  the  principles,  history,  and  present  features  of  Missions,  and  gives  every  member  something 
definite  to  do  for  the  world.  Sech  work  begets  a  pulsating  love  for  others,  and  a  longing  desire 
for  the  salvation  of  the  heathen.  Instead  of  the  interest  periodically  awakened,  soon  to  flag  and 
pass  away,  to  be  renewed  only  at  long  intervals,  sympathy  is  sustained  at  high  level,  and  strengthened 
and  broadened  as  the  years  go  by. 

10.  ITS  LOCAL  FUND  — which  will  (D.V.)  be  started  in  many  centres  at  meetings  held  by  a 
Travelling  Secretary,  and  developed  in  part  by  the  aid  of  the  Loan  Department — is  entirely  at  the 
disposal  of  the  Branches  for  any  missionary  object.  In  return  for  the  “  Carey’s  Weekly  Penny,” 
forwarded  to  Head-quarters,  members  receive  The  Regions  Beyond,  and  have  the  additional 
advantage  of  entering  for  the  Missionary  Examinations,  and  availing  themselves  of  the  Loan 
Department  of  the  Union  ;  but  by  far  the  larger  fund — the  Local  Fund — remains.  It  is  created  by — 
{1)  Collections  at  Branch  meetings;  (2)  Donations  from  wealthy  friends  and  others  ;  (3)  Sales  of  work; 
(4)  Help  raised  through  the  Timothy  Band;  (5)  Sale  of  tickets  for  special  missionary  lectures,  teas, 
exhibitions,  etc.  (see  p.  41);  (6)  Collections  from  Macedon  Band  Meetings,  held  in  neighbouring 
centres  ;  (7)  Funds  raised  by  the  Persis  Band  (see  p.  42). 

At  four  meetings  recently  held  by  one  Branch,  a  Local  Fund  of  no  less  than  ^80  was  raised,  and 
this  in  a  centre  where  no  bands  were  organized,  and  the  Union  but  recently  started.  Wide 
possibilities  open  before  Branches  in  this  connection. 

As  will  be  seen  by  a  glance  at  page  31  the  Local  Fund  may  become  a  valuable  source  of  help 
to  the  existing  missionary  interests  (denominational  or  otherwise)  of  the  Church  or  other  organization 
to  which  the  Branch  belongs ;  and  might  be  used  to  support  a  Missionary  abroad. 

Living  Links. 

Of  the  value  of  the  latter  form  of  missionary  service  it  would  be  difficult  to  speak  too  highly  : — 

*  What  point  would  be  given  to  public  prayer  on  behalf  of  colleges  if  a  large  proportion  ot 
congregations  throughout  the  land  sent  up  and  supported  there  each  its  own  student,  preparing  for  a 
difficult  and  arduous  enterprise;  and  what  point  to  public  prayer  for  Foreign  Missions  if  each 
congregation  had  sent  forth,  or  had  the  prospect  of  sending  forth,  by  one  of  these  ‘  messengers  of  the 
Churches,  the  glory  of  Christ  !  ’  ” 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


57 


Thoughtful  consideration  of  the  above  points,  and  of  the  whole  scheme  set  forth  in  this 
book,  will  show  that,  in  organizing  the  Regions  Beyond  Helpers’  Union,  its  founders  have 
sought  first  the  spread  of  missionary  interest,  and  have  made  the  evangelization  of  the  world 
their  only  aim.  The  actual  “  Carey’s  Weekly  Penny  ”  little  more  than  pays  for  working  expenses, 
and  The  Regions  Beyond;  and  we  believe  that  setting  aside  this  small  gift,  week  by  week,  and 
receiving  in  return  the  larger  outlook  on  the  progress  of  the  Kingdom  of  God  that  connection 
with  the  Union  affords  will  attach  our  members  not  less  heartily  to  the  missionary  work  o( 
their  own  denominations,  but  more.  Increased  knowledge  and  sympathy  involves  increased 
giving — a  fact  which,  alone,  might  lead  many  an  organization  to  adopt  the  R.B.H.U. 

How  the  Union  may  be  linked  to  Existing  Missionary 

Efforts. 

Can  the  Union  be  linked  to  existing  missionary  efforts  in  any  given  centre  ?  Certainly,  b) 
retaining  the  work  already  in  progresss,  and  allowing  its  members  to  become,  in  addition, 
members  of  the  R.B.H.U. 

Modification  of  some  existing  methods  might  be  deemed  wise,  but  almost  any  system  would 
find  its  appropriate  place  in  our  ranks.  Against  the  destruction  of  the  individuality  of  the 
original  work  must  be  weighed  the  benefit  of  being  linked  to  the  Union.  •  But,  as  a 
matter  of  fact,  individuality  of  operation  is  not  destroyed,  since  the  Local  Fund  provides  for 
*self-government  in  the  broadest  sense. 

AN  EXAMPLE. 

If,  for  instance,  the  members  of  a  Missionary  Parliament  carried  on  in  some  Young  Men’s 
Christian  Association  chose  to  join  the  R.B.H.U.,  their  Parliament  would  probably  take  the  place 
of  the  Union  All-the-World  Monthly  Meeting,  and  having,  in  addition,  the  whole  R.B.H.U.  Scheme 
and  Loan  Department,  etc.,  they  would  be  the  richer  and  not  the  poorer  for  the  change.  They 
would  still  possess  all  they  had  before,  and  a  great  deal  besides.  It  would  not  be  necessary  for 
all  the  members  of  the  Parliament  to  join  ;  if  twenty  or  more  did  so,  they  would  constitute  a  Branch. 
And  as  Branch  meetings  are  open  to  the  public,  all  members — even  those  who  had  not  joined — would 
reap  the  advantages  of  the  Union. 

The  above  illustration  of  the  adaptability  of  the  Union  to  Association  work,  of  course,  applies 
to  every  other  form  of  Christian  effort. 


In  introducing  the  Regions  Beyond  Helpers’  Union,  in  this  its  first  Organization  Book, 
to  Pastors,  Teachers,  Missionary  Workers,  and  to  Christians  generally,  we  speak  with  diffidence, 
ffeeling  how  far  from  perfect  are  the  outlines  offered  here.  We  shall  welcome  advice, 


58 


OUR  HELPERS  AT  WORK. 


criticism,  and,  above  all,  co-operation  in  developing  the  organization  suggested  in  these 
pages.  The  Union  may  modify  considerably  in  years  to  come,  and,  far  from  feeling  con¬ 
servative  about  the  working  of  its  details,  we  shall  rejoice  to  adopt  any  changes  that  may 
increase  its  usefulness. 

The  suggestions  thus  far  offered  are  the  outcome  of  earnest  thought,  study,  prayer,  con¬ 
sultation,  and  work ;  and  we  cannot  but  believe — and  gratefully  acknowledge  our  humble 
hope  and  trust — that  they  have  been  given  us  by  God. 

In  view  of  the  claims  of  Christ  and  of  the  non-Christian  world  upon  us — in  view  of  over 
1,000  millions  of  our  fellow  men  and  women  still  living  without  God — ought  we  not  each  to  do, 
for  Him  and  this  lost  world,  more  than  we  yet  have  done? 

What  have  we  done  ?  What  are  we  doing  in  the  greatest  task  of  to-day  ? 

If  He  were  to  write  a  letter  to-day,  as  long  ago,  to  the  living  men  and  women  on  earth 
who  bear  His  name,  and  if  He  were  to  put  at  the  end  of  that  epistle— as  through  His  servant 
Paul  He  used  to,  long  ago — a  little  group  of  disciples’  names,  with  a  word  of  special  greeting 
to  each,  what  would  be  the  sentence  that  He  would  speak  to  us  ?  Would  it  be  such  a  message 
as  He  sent  to  Archippus  ?  Would  He  feel,  as  He  thought  of  our  names,  that  we — we — were  in 
danger  of  losing  our  crown  by  neglecting  our  duty,  forgetting  His  solemn  and  definite  charge  ? 
Might  it  be  that  our  Jesus  would  find  with  us  the  same  fault  He  found  with  Archippus? 

Might  it  be  that  He  has  written  us  such  a  letter,  and  is  writing  it  every  day  in  the  appeals- 
that  come  to  us  from  the  great  heathen  world  ?  May  it  be— with  humble  reverence  we  say  it  - 
that  part  of  that  message  is  here  among  these  pages  ? — that  He  is  standing  by  our  side  as  we 
read  them  here  and  now  ? — and  that  in  view  of  a  world,  one-half  of  which  has  never  heard  His 
name,  He  says  to  us — to  you  and  me  as  we  listen  at  this  moment — 

“These  I  have  called  thee  to  help,  I  have  given  thee  means  to  succour.  To  thee 

I  HAVE  COMMITTED  THE  WORDS  OF  ETERNAL  LIFE,  FOR  WANT  OF  WHICH  THEY  ARE  DYING  WITHOUT 

God,  without  hope.  Their  souls  are  thine  own  charge  from  Me.  And  shall  I  not 
REQUIRE  THEIR  RUIN  AT  THY  HAND  ?  By  My  DEATH  FOR  THEE  AND  THEM,  BY  My  LOVE  FOR¬ 
TH  EM  AND  THEE; — 

“‘TAKE  HEED  TO  THE  MINISTRY  THOU  HAST  RECEIVED,  THAT  THOU  FULFIL  IT.’” 


£$t  (Regt  one  Qj5egonb  $>efpere’  (Union, 

-  ESTABLISHED  CHRISTMAS,  1892,  - 

IN  CONNECTION  WITH  THE 

East  Xoit&oit  3nstitute  for  Ibome  an£>  jforetoit  flDissioits, 

AND  WITH  THE 

Congo-Balolo  HiMsston. 


n 


;!S- HURLEY  MOM. 


P©W0  LOTMINL 


IbeaOquarters’  Council : 


The  Rev.  J.  S.  Morris  . .  Chairman. 

H.  Grattan  Guinness,  M.D.  Organizing  Sec. 
Mrs.  Harry  Guinness  .  .  Financial  Sec. 

Lucy  E.  Guinness  . 
Mr.  Peter  Whytock, 

Mr.  S.  McCracken, 


C.  Crosbie  Brown,  Esq. 

Miss  Haffner  . .  . .  Corresponding  Sec. 

J.  Duthie  Allan  .  .  . .  Recording  Sec. 

Editorial  Secretary. 

i  Travelling  Secretaries. 


Xoan  Department  l — Business  Manager  . .  . .  . .  Mr.  E.  A.  Talbot. 


fHE  EAST  LONDON  INSTITUTE  FOR  HOME  AND  FOREIGN  MISSIONS  was 

founded  in  1872,  under  a  pressing  sense  of  the  claims  of  the  eight  hundred  millions  of 
heathen  who  are,  in  this  nineteenth  century,  still  utterly  unevangelized:  and  of  the  need  of 
a  practical  Training  Home,  where  Christian  young  men  and  women,  of  any  evangelical 
denomination,  gifted  for  God’s  service  and  sincerely  desirous  to  devote  themselves  to  it,  might 
be  freely  received  and  tested,  instructed  in  the  truth,  exercised  in  various  branches  of  evangelistic 
labour,  and,  when  sufficiently  prepared,  helped  to  go  forth  as  missionaries  to  any  country 
or  sphere  to  which  God  might  providentially  open  their  way. 

The  need  for,  and  the  benefit  of,  such  an  Institute  may  be  judged  from  the  fact  that,  during  the 
twenty-three  years  that  have  elapsed  since  its  commencement,  over  3,900  young  men  and  women 
have  applied  to  be  received  ;  and  that  more  than  800  of  these  have  been  accepted,  trained,  and 
are  now  labouring  in  the  Gospel,  either  in  the  Home  or  the  Foreign  field.  120  students  are  at 
present  in  the  Institute,  and  passing  out,  at  the  rate  of  one  every  week  on  an  average,  into 
missionary  spheres. 


'HE  CONGO  =  BALOLO  MISSION  was  founded  in  1888,  with  the  object  of  bringing  the 
Gospel  to  the  Balolo  people,  living  in  the  horse-shoe  bend  of  the  Congo.  The  Mission  has 
sent  out  46  workers,  launched  the  s.s.  Pioneer  on  the  Upper  Congo,  and  organized  four 
Transport  Stations  in  the  Cataract  Region  of  the  river,  and  four  missionary  centres  in  the  heart 
of  Lololand.  The  language  of  the  country  has  been  reduced  to  writing,  portions  of  the  Bible 
translated,  and  spiritual  blessing  already  received  at  all  the  up-river  stations.  Though  the  Mission 
has  had  to  meet  exceptional  difficulties  (of  climate,  distance,  etc.),  results  as  a  whole  have  been 
most  encouraging.  Records  of  its  progress  are  published  monthly  in  The  Regions  Beyond.  Only  30 
workers  are  at  present  in  the  field,  a  supply  totally  inadequate  to  the  demand.  No  other  Mission 
has  ever  attempted  to  reach  the  Balolo. 


T^OTH  the  Institute  and  the  Congo-Balolo  Mission  work  on  interdenominational  lines, 
and  are  entirely  dependent  on  the  free-will  offerings  of  the  Lord’s  people.  They  are  main¬ 
tained  in  faith  in  Him,  backed  by  no  one  Church  or  denomination,  but  receiving  gratefully 
help  from  all  who  care  for  the  heathen  and  desire  the  spread  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ.  Their 
needs  are  large  and  constant.  The  expenditure  on  all  accounts  is  over  £20,000  per  annum, 
and  contributions  will  be  received  with  thanksgiving  to  God.  Lists  of  donations  are  published 
monthly  in  The  Regions  Beyond ,  which  is  the  organ  of  the  Institute,  the  Congo-Balolo  Mission, 
and  The  Regions  Beyond  Helpers’  Union.  A  duly  audited  balance-sheet  appears  annually. 


(Re<$ion0  QBegonb* 

THE  MONTHLY  ORGAN  OF 

SLljc  (Bast  Hontimt  Institute  for  Home 
antr  JFurrign  $tissnms, 

Congo- ^atoto  Jltission, 

AND 

CI;e  Itegions  ^egonii  Helpers’  Union. 

NEW  AND  ENLARGED  ISSUE 

Commencing  in  January,  1895. 

Subscription:  4s.  per  annum,  post  free. 

- -+- - 

Harley  House,  Bow,  London,  E. 

S.  W.  Partridge  &  Co.,  9,  Paternoster  Row,  E.C. 
Fleming  H.  Revell  Co.,  112,  Fifth  Avenue, 
New  York;  or  from  all  Booksellers. 


South  Hmerica, 

Cbe  lUeolocteb  Continent. 

Being  an  Account  of  the  Mission  Tour  of  the  Rev.  G.  C.  Grubb, 
M.A.,  and  party  in  1893,  with  a  Historical  Sketch  and  Summary 
of  Missionary  Enterprise  in  these  vast  Regions . 

By  E.  C.  MILLARD  &  LUCY  E.  GUINNESS. 


CONTENTS. 


Part  I  .—THE  MISSION  TOUR. 

CHAPTER 

I.  From  Southampton  to  the 
River  Plate. 

Welcdme  to  Buenos  Ayres. 

At  the  Lecture  Hall,  Calle 
Corrientes. 

Rosario  de  Santa  Fe. 
Montevideo. 

Rio  de  Janeiro. 

Bahia  and  Pernambuco. 
Bible  Reading. 


II. 

III. 

IV. 
V. 

VI. 

VII. 

VIII. 


Spiritual 


Profusely  illustrated,  with  Maps. 
Diagrams  and  Pictures  of  Life  in 
South  America. 


Part  II—  HISTORICAL  SURVEY 
AND  SUMMARY. 

CHAPTER 

I.  South  America’s 
Story. 

The  Neglected  Continent 
Sealed  for  God. 

No  Man  Layeth  it  to  Heart. 
Can  the  Work  be  Done?  A 
Practical  Answer  from  the 
Argentine. 

The  Land  of  the  Holy  Cross. 
The  States  of  the  West. 
South  America’s  Aborigines. 
“  I  Will  Seek  that  which  was 
Lost." 

Appendix. 


II. 

III. 

IV. 


V. 

VI. 

VII. 

VIII. 


Price  1  3  post  free,  or  in  blocked  cloth,  gilt  edges,  2/6. 


Tn  tbe  Jfar  East, 

BY  GERALDINE  GUINNESS 

(MRS.  HOWARD  TAYLOR). 

A  Graphic  Description  of  Life  and  Work  in  China. 

With  Coloured  Map  of  China,  Photograph  of  the  Author, 
and  numerous  Illustrations  of  Chinese  Life. 

SECOND  AND  ENLARGED  EDITION. 

CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER 

I.  “Good-Bye!” 

Second  Class. 

On  the  Way  to  China. 
Hong-Kong  and  Shanghai  ti 
Yangchau. 

First  Days  in  the  Flowery 
Land. 

Opium  Suicides  amongst  Wo 
men. 


II. 

Ill 

IV. 

V. 

VI. 


CHAPTER 

VII.  Ten  Days  on  a  Chinese  Canal. 
VIII.  At  Home  in  our  Chinese 
Haddon  Hall. 

IX.  By  Wheelbarrow  to  Antong. 
X  Life  on  a  Chinese  Farm. 

XI.  A  Visit  to  the  “  Shiin  ”  City 
and  to  les  Aristocrats. 

XII.  Blessing  and  Need  of  Bless¬ 
ing  in  the  Far  East. 


Mr.  Spurgeon  said  of  it: — “God  blessing  it,  the  book 
should  send  armies  of  believers  to  invade  the  Flowery  Land.” 

Prices:  In  ornamental  paper  boards,  2/6. 
Presentation  Edition,  3/6. 


All  Orders  to  be  addressed  to  The  SECRETARY,  Publication  Department,  Harley  House,  Bow,  London,  E, 


C.  E.  ROBERTS  4  CO.,  85  4  86,  CHISWELI.  ST.,  E.C. 


