IMiyKMHWIlWMtMBBBWWMWWWBWW^^ 


BV  2361 

.R4 

G8 

Guinness 

r  H. 

Gr 

attan, 

1831- 

1898. 

The  wide 

WO  I 

■Id 

and 

our 

work 

it 

3&S&J 


CHINA    INLAND    MISSION. 


C«*H 


THE    WIDE     WORLD 


AND 


OUR   WORK    IN    IT; 


OR, 


€\n  £>ton>  of  tin  east  ^ontion  institute  for 
?i)omc  anti  fovtXQn  iffltesfonsf. 


MRS.   H.  GRATTAN    GUINNESS. 


bonbon: 

HODDER    AND     STOUGHTON, 

27,    PATERNOSTER    ROW. 

And  may  be  had  from  the  Author,  Harley  House,  Bow,  E. 


CONTENTS. 


Chatter  I.     Introductory  ,        ,        ,  page  5 

A  Strange  but  True  Story  .........         5 

A  Trumpet  Call  to  Christians       .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .21 

Chapter  II.     Our  Institute,  and  Why  we  Founded  It        .        .      23 

Chapter  III.     A  Country  Branch 3S 

Headquarters  of  the  East  London  Institute  .         .....       41 

Tutor's  Report  as  to  Progress  in  Study         ......       47 

Evangelizing  among  Sailors  ........       50 

Varied  Character  of  Applications  .......       58 

The  Erection  of  Harley  College  ........       63 

Home  Heathen  ...........       66 

The  Bright  Beyond 71 

Life  at  Cliff     .  .  73 

Vacation  Experiences  ..........       93 

Garden  Parties  in  East  London    ........       95 

Sowing  the  Seed  ..........       96 

Building  Again,  or  Berger  Hall,  Hromley     ......      100 

Our  Men's  Night  School      .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .104 

A  Winter  Afternoon  in  Bromley  .         .         .         .         .         .         .  115 

An  Evening  with  the  Harley  House  Men  in  East  London    .         .         .116 
A  Female  Branch        .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .      1 1 8 

Chapter  IV.     Former  Students  and  their  Present  Spheres      .     122 

Our  Brethren  in  China .  -123 

Seven  Years'  Wanderings  in  China      .         .         .         .         .         .         .125 

Mr.  Bailer's  Journeys .         .         .  .         .         .         .         .         .         .130 

Mr.  Parker  in  Kan-suh 135 

A  Land  without  the  Gospel  .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .154 

The  Arabs  of  the  Hauran    .........      165 

Mission  Evangelique  de  Marseille         .......      169 

Mr.  Rohrbach's  Mission  in  Berlin        .         .         .  .         .         .         .170 

Among  the  Soldiers  in  Tunis       .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .172 

On  the  Ural  Mountains        .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .173 

A  Few  Sheep  in  the  Wilderness  .         .         .         .         .         .         .  175 

Famine  of  the  Word  in  Western  America     .         .         .         .         .         .180 

Across  Russia  and  Siberia  to  China      .         .         .         .         .         .         .      1S3 

On  Lake  Tanganyika,  Central  Africa  .         .         .         .         .         .         .185 

Students  of  non-European  Nationalities        ......     196 

Maquba  Sitwana's  Story       .........     200 

Ali's  Adventures  ..........     207 

Chapter  V.     Pounds,  Shillings,  and  Pence    .....     214 
Mode  of  Raising  Funds        .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .  215 

Chapter  VI.     Solemn  Questions 239 

Appendix 257 


LIST    OF    ILLUSTRATIONS. 


Hollowing  out  a  Canoe  on  the  Congo  . 
River  Scene  in  Kan-suh,  North  China  , 
Diagram  Exhibiting  Religions  of  Mankind  . 
Diagram  Exibiting  English  Drink  Expenditure 
Funeral  Ceremony  in  the  Loas  Country,  Indo-Chin 

Street  Scene  in  China      

Entrance  to  Cliff  House         .... 
Harley  House,  Low,  London,  E.     .        . 
Haddon  Hall,  near  Eakewell,  Derbyshire. 

Cutter  Evangelist 

Chinese  Leep  Show 

The  Late  Henry  Craven,  of  Liverpool 

Lecture  Halls  and  Dormitories  of  the  Institi 

Hulme  Cliff  College,  Curbar  (west  front) 

Japanese  Ladies  Ferried  over  a  River  by  Swim 

The  New  Chapel  at  Cliff 

View  in  Shanghai,   China 

Syrian  Ladies  Visiting 

Golden  Island,  on  the  Yang-t 

Women  of  Ladak,  Tibet    . 

Sail  helping  Wheelbarrow 

River  Scene  in  China 

Chinese  Ladies    . 

An  Opium  Smoker 

A  Street  in  China     . 

Sitting  Room  in  a  Chinese  House  . 

Wheelbarrow  Travelling  in  China 

Chinese  Women 

The  City  of  Tetuan,  in  Morocco   . 

Mohammedan  Gentlemen  and  Servant 

Kabyle  Tents  in  the  Desert   . 

Crossing  the  Desert  .... 

Native  Hut,  South  America    . 

Red  Indian  Camp  in  the  Forest.— Bark 

African  Homes    . 

Parsee  Children,  Bombay. 


si  River 


China 


Canoe 


Frontispiece 


Lo 


32,  33 
37 
38 
41 
49 
5i 

56,  57 
62 
64 

75 
So 

S7 

jO,  91 

121 

124 
127 

!32 

138 

141 

146 

148 
150 
151 
153 

158 

164 

165 

168 

177 
180 

194 
198 


Cjfttpitr  I.     Jfntrcinttfm'ii. 

A  STRANGE  BUT  TRUE  STORY. 


A  wealthy  farmer,  who  cultivated  some  thousands  ot  acres,  had  by 
his  benevolence  endeared  himself  greatly  to  his  large  staff  of  labourers. 
He  had  occasion  to  leave  the  country  in  which  his  property  was 
situated  for  some  years,  but  before  doing  so  he  gave  his  people 
clearly  to  understand  that  he  wished  the  whole  of  the  cultivated  land 
to  be  kept  in  hand,  and  all  the  unreclaimed  moor  and  marsh  lands 
to  be  inclosed  and  drained  and  brought  into  cultivation  ;  that  even 
the  hills  were  to  be  terraced,  and  the  poor  mountain  pastures 
manured,  so  that  no  single  corner  of  the  estate  should  remain 
neglected  and  barren.     Ample  resources  were  left  for  the  execution 


6  "  The  Lord  of  the  Harvest" 

of  these  works,  and  there  were  sufficient  hands  to  have  accomplished 
the  whole  within  the  first  few  years  of  the  proprietor's  absence. 

He  was  detained  in  the  country  to  which  he  had  been  called  very 
many"  years.  Those  whom  he  left  children  were  men  and  women 
when  he  came  back,  and  so  the  number  of  his  tenantry  and  labourers 
were  vastly  multiplied.  Was  the  task  he  had  given  them  to  do 
accomplished  ?  Alas,  no !  Bog  and  moor  and  mountain  waste 
were  only  wilder  and  more  desolate  than  ever.  Fine  rich  virgin  soil 
by  thousands  of  acres  was  bearing  only  briars  and  thistles.  Meadow 
after  meadow  was  utterly  barren  for  want  of  culture.  Nay,  by  far 
the  larger  part  of  the  farm  seemed  never  to  have  been  even  visited 
by  his  servants. 

Had  they  then  been  idle  ?  Some  had.  But  large  numbers  had 
been  industrious  enough.  They  had  expended  a  vast  amount  of 
labour,  and  skilled  labour  too ;  but  they  had  bestowed  it  all  on  the 
park  immediately  around  the  house.  This  had  been  cultivated  to 
such  a  pitch  of  perfection  that  the  workmen  had  scores  of  times 
quarrelled  with  each  other,  because  the  operations  of  one  interfered 
with  those  of  his  neighbour.  And  a  vast  amount  of  labour  had 
been  lost,  in  sowing  the  very  same  patch,  for  instance,  with  corn 
fifty  times  over  in  one  season,  so  that  the  seed  never  had  time  to 
germinate  and  grow  and  bear  fruit ;  in  caring  for  the  forest  trees, 
as  if  they  had  been  tender  saplings  ;  in  manuring  soils  already 
too  fat,  and  watering  pastures  already  too  wet. 

The  farmer  was  positively  astonished  at  the  misplaced  ingenuity, 
with  which  labour  and  seed  and  manure,  skill  and  time  and  strength, 
had  been  wasted  for  no  result.  The  very  same  amount  of  toil  and 
capital,  expended  according  to  his  directions,  would  have  brought  the 
whole  demesne  into  culture,  and  yielded  a  noble  revenue.  But 
season  after  season  had  rolled  away  in  sad  succession,  leaving  those 
unbounded  acres  ot  various  but  all  reclaimable  soils  barren  and 
useless  ;  and  as  to  the  park,  it  would  have  been  far  more  productive 
and  perfect  had  it  been  relieved  of  the  extraordinary  and  unaccount- 
able amount  of  energy  expended  on  it. 

Why  did  these  labourers  act  so  absurdly?  Did  they  wish  to 
labour  in  vain  ?  On  the  contrary  !  They  were  for  ever  craving  for 
fruit,  coveting  good  crops,  looking  for  great  results. 

Did  they  not  wish  to  carry  out  the  farmer's  views  about  his  pro- 
perty ?  Well,  they  seemed  to  have  that  desire,  for  they  were 
always  reading  the  directions  he  wrote,  and  said  continually  to  each 


Lamps — a  Lesson.  7 

other,  "  You  know  we  have  to  bring  the  wJiole  property  into  order." 
But  they  did  not  do  it.  Some  few  tried,  and  ploughed  up  a  little 
plot  here  and  there,  and  sowed  corn  and  other  crops.  Perhaps 
these  failed,  and  so  the  rest  got  discouraged  ?  Oh,  no  !  they  saw 
that  the  yield  was  magnificent,  far  richer  in  proportion  than  they 
got  themselves.  They  clearly  perceived  that,  but  yet  they  failed  to 
follow  a  good  example.  Nay,  when  the  labours  of  a  few  in  some 
distant  valley  had  resulted  in  a  crop  they  were  all  unable  to  gather 
in  by  themselves,  the  others  would  not  even  go  and  help  them  to 
bring  home  the  sheaves  !  They  preferred  watching  for  weeds  among 
the  roses  in  the  overcrowded  garden,  and  counting  the  blades  of 
grass  in  the  park,  and  the  leaves  on  the  trees. 

Then  they  were  fools  surely,  not  wise  men — traitors,  not  true 
servants  to  their  Lord  ? 

Ah  !  I  can't  tell !  You  must  ask  Him  that !  I  only  know  their 
Master  said,  "  Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to 
every  creature" ;  and  that  more  than  1,800  years  afterwards  they  had 
not  even  mentioned  that  there  was  a  gospel  to  one-half  of  the  world. 


Journeying  some  time  ago  on  one  of  our  main  lines  of  railway, 
we  observed  at  a  large  station,  where  our  train  stopped  for  five 
minutes,  a  porter  wheel  up  alongside  a  truck  full  of  freshly  trimmed 
lamps,  which  were  placed  as  closely  together  as  possible,  in  holes 
cut  in  the  truck  for  their  reception.  The  porter  left  the  truck  and 
went  to  a  distance ;  and  as  we  saw  and  considered  the  matter  we 
perceived  that  it  was  a  parable. 

What  use  were  all  those  forty  or  fifty  lamps  there  and  then  ? 
None  whatever !  The  broad  glare  of  daylight  made  their  feeble 
glimmer  look  yellow  and  sickly.  Their  beams  had  no  room  to 
radiate  save  into  each  other.  They  were  too  close  together  for  their 
illuminating  power  to  be  of  any  value ;  and  moreover  the  noonday 
sunshine  flooded  the  platform,  and  rendered  their  light  absolutely 
superfluous.  They  might  have  been  perfectly  well  dispensed  with. 
No  one  was  in  any  wise  the  better  for  their  presence.  Then  and 
there  it  answered  no  conceivable  purpose. 

But  in  a  few  minutes  two  porters  came  up  to  the  truck.     One 
sprang  on  to  the  top  of  the  carriage  overhead  and  opened  the  lamp 
hole.     The  other  dexterously  threw  up  to  him  the  lighted  lamp. 
In  a  moment  it  was  inserted  in  its  place,  the  lid  closed  with  a  snap, 
and  the  man  went  on  to  another  compartment. 


8  "Ye  are  the  Light  of  the   World? 

This  process  was  repeated  on  the  next  carriage  and  the  next,  the 
extinguished  lamps  being  thrown  down  as  the  fresh-trimmed  ones 
were  thrown  up,  and  this  clever  game  of  ball  continued  until  every 
compartment  of  every  carriage  had  its  lamp.  Anon  the  whistle 
sounded,  the  train  moved  off,  and  in  a  few  minutes  plunged  into  a 
long  tunnel. 

What  about  the  lamps  now  ?  Are  they  now  superfluous  ?  Nay, 
verily  !  Daylight  is  gone,  and  but  for  their  beams  we  should  be  in 
pitchy  darkness.  There  are  none  too  many  now.  No  carriage  is 
too  well  illuminated.  Not  one  can  be  spared.  How  bright  and 
pleasant  the  beams,  which,  a  few  minutes  ago,  and  a  few  miles 
back,  seemed  so  yellow,  and  smoky,  and  useless  !  What  makes  the 
difference  ?  Simply  that  the  lamps  were,  in  the  first  place,  too  near 
together,  and  in  the  broad  daylight.  Now  they  are  scattered  at  suitable 
distances,  and  in  the  darkness. 

Now  Christians  are  designed  and  commanded  to  shine  as  tights  in 
the  tuorld,  holding  forth  the  zvord  of  life.  Our  light  is  our  knowledge, 
that  blessed  knowledge  of  God  and  of  Jesus  Christ,  whom  He  has 
sent,  which  is  life  eternal.  To  let  our  light  shine  is  to  spread  this 
knowledge  among  those  who  have  it  not. 

Dare  we  be  content  to  let  our  lights  shine  in  the  light,  where  it 
can  be  of  no  use,  instead  of  carrying  it  into  the  darkness,  where  it 
may  become  an  inestimable  blessing?  Yet  is  not  this  just  what 
Christian  workers,  for  the  most  part,  are  doing  ? 

In  what  parts  of  the  world  are  labourers  most  needed '  ?  In  what 
parts  of  the  world  are  they  most  found  ? 

Beyond  all  question,  they  are  most  needed  in  the  vast  realms  that 
lie  buried  in  the  unrelieved  gloom  of  heathendom ;  and  beyond  all 
question  they  are  most  found  in  lands  where  the  gospel  has  been 
preached  for  ages  and  where  every  one  is  already,  by  profession  at 
least,  a  Christian.  What  a  startling  and  terrible  anomaly  !  Here, 
in  England,  and  in  the  United  States — where  Bibles  deluge  the  land 
and  where  every  one  can  read  them,  where  laws  and  customs  and 
social  habits  are  almost  all  based  on  Christianity,  where  the  very 
atmosphere,  as  it  were,  is  impregnated  with  Christian  thought  and 
feeling,  where  the  light  of  the  knowledge  of  God  is  clear  as  daylight 
at  noon, — here  churches  and  chapels  may  be  met  with  in  nearly 
every  street ;  ministers,  home  missionaries,  Sunday-school  teachers, 
Bible-women,  Scripture-readers,  and  district  visitors  abound  ;  so  that, 
on  an  average,  there  is  a  Christian  worker  of  some  kind — a  lamp — 


IV here  do  we  Shine  ?  9 

to  every  hundred  men,  women,  and  children  of  the  population  ! 
Say  that  an  average  Englishman  only  reads,  or  hears  read,  the 
Bible  once  a  day  in  the  family,  and  only  attends  one  preaching 
service  in  the  week,  he  still  has,  between  the  ages  of  seven  and 
seventy,  over  twenty-six  thousand  chances  of  learning  the  way  of 
salvation  ! 

While  yonder  in  heathendom — where  there  are  no  Bibles,  and 
where,  if  there  were,  no  one  could  read  them  ;  where  every  law  and 
custom  and  usage  is  not  only  w/z-Christian  but  ^////-Christian ;  where 
every  understanding  is  darkened  and  every  heart  alienated  from  the 
life  of  God ;  where  ignorance  and  evil  have  undisturbed  and  undis- 
puted sway, — there,  millions  and  hundreds  of  millions  of  men,  for 
whom  Christ  died,  never  during  the  whole  course  of  their  lives  have  one 
single  chance  of  hearing  the  "  glad  tidings  "  of  forgiveness  and  eternal 
life  I 

Is  not  this  as  if  the  railway  lamps  were  lit  and  supplied  with  oil, 
and  kept  trimmed  and  bright,  simply  to  stand  in  the  truck  in  the 
broad  sunlight  ?  WTas  it  for  this  they  were  made,  or  to  illumine 
the  benighted  travellers  in  the  dark  tunnel  ? 


The  Director  of  a  mission  in  the  East  of  London  advertised 
lately  for  a  superintendent  to  help  in  the  work,  and  received  about 
two  thousand  applications  in  reply.  The  post  was  a  humble  and,  in 
some  respects,  an  unattractive  one,  and  the  income  offered  in  con- 
nection with  it  did  not  exceed  the  wages  which  might  be  earned  by 
a  clever  mechanic.     Yet  there  were  thousands  anxious  to  take  it ! 

What  is  this  but  a  fresh  proof  of  the  fact  we  are  constantly  trying 
to  urge  on  the  attention  of  Christians,  that  while  of  all  parts  of  the 
known  world  there  is  none  that  so  little  needs  Christian  workers  as 
England,  there  is  none  that  has  so  many  ? 

These  two  thousand  were  all  presumably  truly  converted  men, 
more  or  less  gifted  and  suited  for  evangelistic  work,  willing  and 
anxious  to  be  engaged  in  it,  and  lacking  only — a  sphere  ! 

Again  :  seventy  young  men  presented  themselves  lately  to  one  ot 
our  great  Nonconformist  bodies  as  applicants  for  ministerial  work. 
They  were  all  declined,  not  as  unsuitable  (they  had  all  been  passed 
as  suitable  by  their  respective  district  committees),  but  as  super- 
fluous ;  there  was  no  need  for  more  ministers,  there  were  too  many 


io  "  Gross  Darkness:' 

for  the  vacant  posts  already.     It  is  the  same  in  other  organizations 
of  a  similar  character  with  which  we  are  acquainted. 

In  the  light  of  such  facts  read  the  following  appeal  from  an 
evangelist  labouring  in  one  of  the  healthy  and  populous  northern 
provinces  of  China— an  appeal  which  would  be  repeated  in  sub- 
stance from  a  thousand  parts  of  that  million-peopled  empire.  I  It- 
writes  : 

"There  is  in  the  province  of  Shan-si,  North  China,  a  plain  no 
miles  long  by  from  20  to  30  wide  j  it  lies  between  the  city  of  Tai- 
yuen  and  a  place  called  Ling-sih.  Four  millions  of  people  live  on 
this  plain,  the  soil  of  which  is  very  productive. 

"These  people  are  not  all  occupying  scattered  villages,  but  a 
arge  part  of  them  are  crowded  in  large  cities  and  towns.  There 
are  no  fewer  than  twelve  cities,  each  containing  about  20,000  persons. 
Some  of  these  cities  are  very  wealthy,  and  one  is  the  money  mart 
of  the  province.  Then  there  are  large  to7vns,  containing  from  6,000 
to  10,000  people  each.  I  have  not  visited  all  of  these  cities  and 
towns,  but  a  missionary  who  has  informs  me  that  there  are  more  than 
twenty  such  places. 

"  Now  the  bulk  of  these  three  or  four  millions  are  utterly  beyond 
the  reach  of  missionaries.  They  are  left  in  their  darkness  and  sin, 
and  there  is  not  one  Protestant  at  work  among  them.  For  these 
people  I  plead,  hoping  that  some  plan  will  be  adopted  which  will 
place  the  knowledge  of  the  grace  of  God  within  their  reach.  What 
can  be  done  ?     Are  they  to  continue  in  their  darkness  and  idolatry  ? 

"  We  have,  to  some  extent,  the  eternal  destinies  of  these  people  in 
our  hands.  What  an  enormous  responsibility  !  What  can  be  done 
to  meet  it?  'Come  over  and  help  us,'  is  our  cry.  'Here  am  I, 
Lord  ;  send  me,'  must  be  the  reply  of  those  whose  hearts  the  Lord 
has  touched. 

"  There  should  be  two  new  stations  opened,  and  there  should  be 
two  new  missionaries  for  each  station.  Could  not  four  men  be  found 
for  this  work  ?  " 

Four  men  !  A  modest  request  surely  to  make  on  behalf  of  twelve 
cities,  twenty  large  towns,  and  multitudes  of  villages  and  hamlets  /  A 
not  unreasonable  request  surely  to  a  Church  so  rich  in  men  that  two 
thousand  of  them  apply  for  one  and  the  same  sphere  of  service,  and  that 
a  sphere  which  would  after  all  only  give  them  the  opportunity  of 
evangelizing  among  people  who  are  all  professing  Christians  to  begin 
with  ! 


"  How  shall  they  Hear  without  a  Preacher  ?  "         1 1 


RIVER   SCENE   IN    KAN-SUH,    NORTH   CHINA. 


What  a  strange  and  terrible  contrast  !  On  the  one  hand,  two 
thousand  evangelists,  willing  and  anxious  to  be  appointed  to  preach 
the  gospel  to  a  people  who  know  it  perfectly  well  already,  who  were 
taught  it  in  school  in  childhood,  who  have  it  in  print  in  every  house, 
and  who  can  hear  it  any  day  in  a  hundred  churches,  chapels,  and 
mission  halls  all  around  them  ;  on  the  other  hand,  twelve  entire 
cities,  twenty  large  towns,  and  multitudes  of  villages  and  hamlets,  in 
one  small  district  of  one  province  of  China,  helplessly,  hopelessly 
waiting  for  a  single  messenger  of  the  glad  tidings  ! 

The  one  solitary  missionary  in  their  midst,  who  feels  he  can  never 
reach  them  all,  pleads  for /our  men  to  evangelize  four  millions  ;  and 
yet  he  will  probably  plead  in  vain,  because,  pressing  as  this  need 
appears,  China  has  many  and  many  a  need  more  pressing  still ! 

And  yet  surely  this  plain  of  Tai-yuen  is  in  a  pitiable  plight 
enough  !  Covered  with  a  heathen  population  equal  to  that  of  all 
London,  and  left  to  the  unaided  efforts  of  one  lonely  witness  for 
Christ  ! 

Picture  the  condition  of  London,  if  its  entire  population,  wholly 
ignorant  of  any  Divine  revelation,  and  sunk  in  idolatry  and  gross 


12  An  Illustration. 

superstition,  had  no  church,  no  chapel,  no  mission  hall,  no  Sunday 
school,  no  Bible,  no  tracts,  no  city  missionary,  no  district  visitor,  no 
Christian,  but  only  one  solitary  preacher  !  All  London,  heathen, 
and  with  one  evangelist !  There  are  over  fifteen  hundred  churches 
and  chapels  with  their  ministers  in  London,  to  say  nothing  of  count- 
less mission  halls,  of  450  city  missionaries,  tens  of  thousands  of 
Sunday-school  teachers,  Bible-women,  and  other  unpaid  Christian 
workers.  And  yonder  !  a  similar  population,  only  of  total  heathen, 
with  one,  just  one,  solitary  worker  ! 

Take  an  illustration.  The  camp  of  Israel  in  the  wilderness  was 
a  great  city  of  tents  covering  many  square  miles,  and  containing 
between  two  and  three  millions  of  souls.  When  "  much  people  of 
Israel  died  "  from  the  bites  of  the  fiery  serpents  sent  as  a  judgment 
on  them  for  their  sins,  this  whole  camp  was  one  vast  scene  of  misery 
fear,  and  death. 

The  brazen  serpent  uplifted  on  the  pole  was  God's  remedy  for  this 
widespread  ruin  ;  and  on  Moses,  and  on  the  priests  and  Levites 
first  would  devolve  the  duty  of  proclaiming  the  glad  tidings  that 
whosoever  looked  on  it  should  live.  All  who  heard  the  message 
would  be  bound  also  to  pass  it  on,  till  the  uttermost  ends  of  the 
wide  camp  rang  with  the  command,  Look  and  live  !  "  The  Lord 
gave  the  word,  great  was  the  company  of  those  that  published  it." 

But  what  if  Moses  and  the  Levites,  instead  of  speeding  the 
message  to  every  corner  of  the  camp,  had  contented  themselves 
with  announcing  it  to  the  tribes  ranged  under  the  standard  of 
Ephraim  on  the  west,  leaving  the  more  populous  camp  of  Reuben 
on  the  south,  with  its  151,000  warriors,  beside  women  and  children, 
and  that  of  Dan  on  the  north  with  its  still  larger  hosts,  and  that  of 
Judah  on  the  west  with  its  186,000  fighting  men,  uninformed  that 
any  remedy  for  the  fatal  snake-bite  existed  1 

What  should  we  think  of  such  conduct?  What  would  God  have 
thought  of  it  ?     Yet  is  not  this  just  what  we  are  doing  ? 

By  very  very  far  the  larger  number  of  Christian  workers  in  the 
world  are  located  in  England  and  the  United  States  ;  that  is,  amidst 
the  one  small  section  of  the  earth's  inhabitants  that  least  needs  them,  the 
evangelical  Protestant  section,  which  forms  only  one-fourteenth  part  of 
the  human  family.  The  entire  missionary  staff  evangelizing  the 
other  thirteenfourteenths,  which  comprise  all  corrupt  Christianity,  all 
Mohammedanism,  and  all  heathenism,  is  an  almost  inappreciable 
fraction  of  the  total  number  of  Christian  labourers. 


A  Dark  Picture. 


*3 


Millions 

l!5 
84 

190 

8 
170 


^UPS^^i^ 


856 


■BBBBBBBBBB 
flBBBBBBBBBB  _, 

m 


BBigSnflBSSBBBBBBBBBB 

iiiiiiiiiiiilss^SKB 

aiaHBHaBBBBBBBBBBBBi 


iBBBBBBBBBBBBBiBBBBB 

BBiBSiSESBSSBSJ 

BBBflBBBBBBBJBHBBBBBB 
BBBBBBBBaBBBBBBBBBBB 


MBBBBL 

BSE       iilil 


Protes- 
tants. 


Greek 
Church. 


Papists. 
Jews. 


Moheimmi  - 
dans. 


•[Hecthin. 


bbbI  K.  1 r — h  r — 1\ 


CATHOLICS     - 


Diagram   exhibiting  the  Actual  and   Relative  Numbers  of 
Mankind,  Classified  according  to  Religion. 

Each  of  the  little  squares  of  the  annexed  diagram  represents  a 
million  human  beings,  and  the  entire  block  conveys  an  accurate 
proportionate  idea  of  the  present  population  of  the  world,  according 
to  the  careful  and  well-grounded  estimates  of  the  late  eminent  geo- 
grapher, Mr.  Keith  Johnston. 


14  Population  of  the    World. 

Of  the  world's  total  population  of  1,424  millions,  nearly  two- 
thirds  are  still  total  heathen,  and  the  remainder  are  mostly  either 
Mohammedans  or  members  of  those  great  apostate  Churches 
whose  religion  is  a  mere  Christianized  idolatry. 

Thus  (to  say  nothing  of  merely  nominal  Protestants,  who  have 
the  gospel,  whether  they  obey  it  or  not)  we  have  four  terrible  facts: 

i.  Eight  millions  of  Jews  still  reject  their  Messiah,  Jesus  ot 
Nazareth. 

2.  Three  hundred  millions  of  so  called  Christians  have  apo- 
statized from  the  faith  of  Christ,  are  sunk  in  superstition  and 
ignorance  of  the  gospel,  as  in  Austria,  Spain,  and  Russia. 

3.  A  hundred  and  seventy  millions  more  are  followers  of  the  false 
prophet;  and 

4.  The  remaining  eight  hundred  and  fifty-six  millions  are  still  in 
this  year  of  our  Lord,  1886,  utter  heathen. 

The  study  of  this  diagram  is  saddening,  and  at  the  same  time 
most  stimulating.  Its  degrees  of  light,  its  variations  of  shadow, 
and  its  comparatively  vast  extent  of  midnight  darkness,  all  indicate 
accurately  the  proportion  of  moral  and  spiritual  knowledge,  and 
moral  and  spiritual  ignorance,  among  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 

We  are  all  familiar  with  missionary  maps,  coloured  according  to 
the  religions  professed  in  the  various  countries.  Such  maps  give 
true  information  as  to  the  geographical  spheres  of  certain  faiths, 
but  they  completely  mislead  as  to  the  number  of  their  respective 
professors.  Vast  extents  of  country,  for  instance  like  the  British 
possessions  in  Australia  and  North  America,  or  the  western  terri- 
tories of  the  United  States,  are  coloured  so  as  to  indicate  the 
prevalence  of  Protestant  Christianity  ;  and  relatively  to  these  im- 
mense districts,  China,  India,  and  Japan  seem  comparatively  small. 
In  reality  however,  the  mass  of  heathenism  in  these  densely 
populous  lands  is  enormously  greater  than  the  mass  of  the  Protes- 
tantism in  all  the  other  countries  put  together. 

The  diagram  here  presented  deals,  on  the  contrary,  not  with 
geographical  extent,  but  with  ethnographical  statistics;  not  with  miles, 
but  with  men ;  not  with  the  physical,  but  with  the  moral  and 
spiritual ;  not  with  the  extent  over  which  they  are  distributed, 
but  with  the  actual  numbers  and  condition  of  the  masses  of  man- 
kind. 

For  every  one  of  these  squares  there  are  on  earth  a  thousand 
thousand  human  beings.     For  every  four  of  them  there  is  some- 


856  Millions  of  Heathen  !  15 

where  or  other  a  population  equal  to  that  of  London,  living  and 
dying  in  the  religious  condition  indicated  by  the  shades  of  this 
diagram ! 

The  half-dozen  figures  which  emhody  the  lesson  of  the  diagram 
should  he  as  indelibly  impressed  on  every  Christian  memory  as 
are  the  points  of  the  compass  or  the  days  of  the  week.  Christ's 
servants  ought  to  know  the  state  of  His  service,  God's  children 
ought  to  be  acquainted  with  the  progress  of  His  kingdom  on  earth. 
Very  misty  and  indefinite  are  the  notions  of  most  Christians  as 
to  the  world's  spiritual  condition  !  They  hear  of  glorious  revival 
work  at  home  and  abroad,  of  fresh  missionary  efforts  in  various 
directions,  of  one  country  after  another  opening  to  the  gospel,  and 
of  large  sums  being  devoted  to  its  spread  ;  and  they  acquire 
terribly  mischievous  and  untrue  impressions  that  adequate  efforts 
are  being  made  for  the  evangelization  of  the  nations  upon  earth, 
and  that  there  is  no  great  necessity  to  exert  themselves  in  aid  of 
these  efforts.  We  earnestly  entreat  all  such  to  engrave  deeply  and 
permanently  on  their  memories  these  six  facts. 

There  are  in  the  world  this  day  as  nearly  as  can  be  ascertained, 

One  hundred  and  sixteen  millions  of  Protestants 
Eighty-four  millions  of  Greek  Church 
One  hundred  and  ninety  millions  of  Roman  Catholic 
Eight  millions  of  Jews     ...... 

One  hundred  and  seventy  millions  of  Mohammedans 

and 

Eight  hundred  and  fifty-six  millions  of  heathen  856       „ 

Thus,  of  the  world's  total  population  of  1,424  millions,  consider- 
ably more  than  half — nearly  two-thirds — are  still  total  heathen,  and 
the  remainder  are  mostly  either  followers  of  the  false  prophet  or 
members  of  those  great  apostate  Churches  whose  religion  is  prac- 
tically a  Christianized  idolatry,  and  who  can  scarcely  be  said  to 
hold  or  teach  the  gospel  of  Christ. 

Even  as  to  the  116  millions  of  nominal  Protestants,  we  must  re- 
member how  large  a  proportion  in  Germany,  England,  and  America 
have  lapsed  into  infidelity — a  darkness  if  possible  deeper  even 
than  that  of  heathenism,  and  how  many  are  blinded  by  superstition 
or  buried  in  extreme  ignorance.  So  that  while  eight  millions  of 
Jews  still  reject  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  and  while  more  than  300 
millions  who  bear  His  name  have  apostatized  from  His  faith, 
170  millions  more  bow  before  a  false  prophet;    and  the  vast  re- 


.     116 

nillions 

.    84 

>> 

.     190 

,, 

8 

,, 

170 

ii 

1 6  Our  Plain  Duty. 

mainder  of  mankind  are  to  this  day  worshippers  of  stocks  and 
stones,  of  their  own  ancestors,  of  dead  heroes,  or  of  the  devil  him- 
self; all  in  one  way  or  other  worshipping  or  serving  the  creature 
instead  of  the  Creator,  who  is  God  over  all,  blessed  for  ever.  And 
yet  we  know  that  this,  and  this  only,  "is  life  eternal,  to  know  Thee, 
the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ  whom  Thou  hast  sent "  ! 

Is  there  not  enough  here  to  sadden  the  heart  of  thoughtful  Chris- 
tians, and  to  rouse  them  at  the  same  time  to  do  what  in  them  lies 
to  meet  the  world's  great  need  ? 

Let  no  one  say  the  facts  are  so  appalling  that  any  realization  at 
all  of  them  is  enough  to  paralyse  all  effort  and  destroy  all  hope. 
Eighteen  hundred  years  of  gospel  preaching,  and  not  one  in  ten 
of  mankind  as  yet  a  Protestant  Christian?  At  that  rate  all  our 
efforts  are  futile,  and  eighteen  thousand  years  at  least  must  elapse 
before  the  world  is  converted  ! 

Such  reasoning  is  false,  such  discouragement  unfounded.  We  arc 
not  sent  to  convert  the  world,  but  to  evangelize  it. 

The  Master  has  given  us  our  task,  to  go  into  "  all  the  world, 
and  proclaim  the  glad  tidings  to  every  creature." 

Whether  men  hear  or  refuse  to  hear,  whether  they  believe  and 
receive  Christ  or  whether  they  neglect  or  reject  Him,  our  responsi- 
bility is  to  proclaim  Him  to  every  nation  and  kindred  and  people 
and  tongue. 

Nor  have  we  in  the  pursuit  of  this  our  task  the  slightest  reason 
or  discouragement. 

The  progress  made  in  the  evangelization  of  the  heathen  beyond 
the  boundary  of  Europe  is  not  the  result  of  eighteen  hundred  years 
of  missionary  labour.  It  may  rather  be  said  to  be  the  result  of  eighty 
years'  work  only. 

Eighty  Years  Ago. 

At  the  close  of  the  last  century  there  were  but  seven  Protestant 
missionary  societies  in  existence,  now  there  are  at  least  seventy. 
There  were  then  under  two  hundred  missionaries  at  work,  now 
there  are  between  two  and  three  thousand,  with  twenty-three  thou- 
sand native  helpers,  and  probably  as  many  more  female  agents, 
lay  agents,  and  teachers.  Then  there  were  some  fifty  thousand 
converts  from  heathenism,  noiv  more  than  that  number  are  added 
to  the  Church  in  a  single  year,  and  the  total  number  of  converts 
is  estimated  at  1,650,000. 


A  re  we  in  Earnest  ?  1 7 

Eighty  years  ago  the  total  sum  contributed  for  Protestant  missions 
hardly  amounted  to  ,£50,000 ;  now  about  ,£1,250,000  is  spent 
every  year  on  the  work. 

More  than  twelve  thousand  schools  are  now  enlightening  heathen 
children,  where  eighty  years  ago  there  were  not  a  hundred  ;  and 
whereas  at  that  time  the  Scriptures  existed  in  about  fifty  translations 
only,  they  are  now  to  be  found  in  some  240  languages  and  dialects. 

In  fact,  the  results  that  have  been  accomplished  in  the  last  eighty 
years  are  such  as  demonstrate  beyond  all  question  that  faithful  and 
earnest  work  in  heathendom  is  hopeful  and  fruitful  beyond  any  other 
Christian  work,  and  that  no  race  of  mankind  is  so  sunken  that  it 
may  not  be  regenerated  by  the  gospel  of  Christ. 

As  we  gaze  with  interest  and  grief  on  the  remaining  masses 
of  heathenism,  we  should  do  so  consequently  with  hope  and  with 
faith.  God  has  much  people  to  be  called  out  of  this  darkness  into 
His  marvellous  light,  and  that  by  the  agency  of  now  living  Chris- 
tians. The  sudden  simultaneous  rise  within  a  single  century  of 
scores  of  Christian  missionary  agencies,  the  wonderful  blessing  which 
has  crowned  their  efforts  in  every  part  of  the  world,  and  the  rapid 
ratio  of  increase  in  the  ingatherings  from  heathendom  of  late,  all 
stamp  our  days  as  the  long  foretold  days  of  "  the  latter  rain,"  the 
blessed  era  of  universal  missions,  predicted  as  immediately  to  pre- 
cede the  fall  of  Babylon  and  the  coming  of  Christ  (Rev.  xiv.  6).  We 
are  seeing  a  spread  of  Christianity  among  the  heathen  analogous  to 
that  which  overthrew  the  idolatries  of  the  Roman  world  at  the  beginning 
of  the  Christian  era.  The  end  of  the  age  is  fast  approaching ;  the 
coming  of  the  Lord,  before  which  heathenism  shall  disappear  as 
darkness  before  the  dawn,  draws  very  nigh  :  but  before  the  day 
come,  as  we  have  His  own  authority  for  saying,  the  gospel  must  first 
be  preached  among  all  nations.  Never  was  there  greater  obligation 
to  do  all  we  can  to  this  end  than  now ;  never  was  there  more  evi- 
dent certainty  that  in  so  doing  we  are  working  together  with  God. 
Never  were  facilities  for  reaching  every  part  of  the  earth  so  great, 
never  were  volunteers  for  missionary  service  so  numerous,  or  en- 
couragements in  it  so  abundant,  and  never  before  was  the  time  in 
which  to  finish  our  appointed  task  so  short,  as  now  in  1886  !  God 
help  us  to  be  in  earnest ! 

But  does  it  look  as  if  we  were  in  earnest  ? 

For  the  last  forty  years  a  million  of  money  has  been  Spent  every  year 
on  the  mere  work  of  restoring  old  cathedrals  and  churches,  and 

B 


1 8  Churches,  or  China — which? 

building  neiv  ones  in  the  small,  over-churched  island  of  England 
What  would  not  that  money  have  accomplished,  had  it  been  spent  in 
sustaining  living  agents  to  preach  Christ  to  the  heathen  ?  Reckon- 
ing ;£ioo  a  year  to  each  man,  it  would  have  kept  ten  thousand 
additional  voices  declaring  and  distributing  the  words  of  eternal  life  for 
the  last  forty  years  !  If  each  of  these  missionaries  had  evangelized 
only  one  thousand  persons  each  year,  four  hundred  millions  ot 
perishing  heathen  might  already  have  heard  the  gospel ;  that  is  to 
say,  half  the  heathen  world  might  have  received  from  Christ's  am- 
bassadors His  message,  according  to  His  will.  And  had  she  thus 
spent  her  money,  would  not  Christian  England  have  done  her  duty 
better,  though  she  would  have  displayed  her  taste  in  church  architec- 
ture less?  And  do  we  mean  to  go  on  for  the  next  forty  years 
spending  a  million  per  annum  on  church  "building  at  home,  while 
the  Dark  Continent  lies  still  unenlightened  and  China's  millions 
remain  unevangelized  ? 

In  the  Missionary  Herald,  edited  by  Mr.  Wilder  (Princeton, 
U.S.A.),  there  are  given  as  the  result  of  carefully  collected  statistics 
some  figures  which,  while  they  are  by  no  means  inclusive  as  regards 
England,  are  no  doubt  correct  as  regards  America,  and  which,  even 
as  they  stand,  are  striking  and  solemn  enough  to  demand  careful 
consideration  on  the  part  of  Christ's  servants. 

Among  the  members  of  the  fifty  sections  into  which  the  Evan- 
gelical Protestant  Church  in  America  is  divided  there  are  at  the 
present  time  labouring  in  word  and  doctrine  no  less  than  78,853 
ordained  ministers.  In  the  fifteen  principal  denominations  of  Great 
Britain  and  Ireland  there  are  39,746  more,  making  a  total  of  118,599 
ministers  set  apart,  who  are  week  by  week  preaching  Christ  to  a  small 
section  of  the  human  family,  constituting  not  one-twentieth  part  of 
the  whole,  say  seventy  millions,  out  of  the  world's  population  of  more 
than  fourteen  hundred  millions. 

On  the  other  hand,  these  countries  have  2,600  ordained  mission- 
aries witnessing  for  Christ  in  heathendom.  So  that  in  these  two 
countries  there  are  considerably  more  than  a  hundred  thousand 
ministers  engaged  in  instructing  seventy  millions  of  intelligent, 
educated  Protestant  Christians,  while  they  send  considerably  less 
than  three  thousand  missionaries  to  evangelize  the  rest  of  the  world, 
including  the  thousand  millions  of  heathendom  ! 

To  reduce  the  numbers  so  as  to  make  this  state  of  things  more 
conceivable,  a  hundred  ministers  are  set  to  teach  seventy  thousand 


ts  it  Fair?  19 

Christians,  and  three  missionaries  are  sent  to  instruct  a  thousand 
thousand  utter  heathen— a  whole  million  of  pagans. 

But  the  case  is  really  far  worse.  America  has,  in  addition  to  these 
ordained  ministers,  35,000  local  preachers,  and  probably  quite  as 
many  more  lay  agents  of  other  kinds,  including  Sunday-school 
teachers ;  and  England  has  at  the  lowest  computation  as  many  more. 
The  total  number  of  Christian  labourers  in  the  home  field  in  these 
two  countries  it  would  be  hard  in  these  days  to  estimate,  so  numerous 
are  the  volunteer  forces,  and  they  are  in  many  cases  as  efficient,  if 
not  more  so,  than  the  regular  ministers.  Three  hundred  thousand 
Christian  workers  however  is  far  nearer  the  fact  than  one ;  while  if 
we  count,  not  only  the  lay  agents,  but  the  female  missionaries  in 
heathendom,  the  total  is  only  4,833.  The  proportion  of  Christian 
workers  absorbed  by  the  home  field  is  therefore  more  than  ninety- 
nine  per  cent.  Not  one  out  of  a  hundred  of  the  ministers  and  lay 
workers  of  the  Christian  Church  is  labouring  in  heathendom,  though 
it  contains  ten  times  more  souls  than  Christendom,  and  though  it  is 
in  such  an  unspeakably  needy  condition  ! 

Two  groups  are  before  us :  seventy  fat  and  well  fed  people  in 
the  one,  and  a  thousand  starving  creatures  in  the  other.  To  the 
former  we  give  a  fine  hatch  of  large  loaves ;  to  the  latter  we  accord 
one  crumb  to  divide  between  them ! 

Do  then  those  who  know  the  gospel  perfectly  well  already,  whether 
they  obey  it  or  not,  need  instructing  or  evangelizing  a  thousand 
times  more  than  those  who  have  never  even  heard  of  God  or 
Christ  ?  Ought  the  agency  available  for  the  zvorld's  evangelization 
to  be  thus  unequally  distributed  ?  Are  the  Protestants  ot  England 
and  America  so  dark  and  ignorant  that  they  really  require  more  than 
ninety  per  cent,  of  the  preachers  of  the  truth  for  their  own  enlighten- 
ment and  salvation  ?  Is  it  the  genius  ot  Christianity  to  look  every 
man  on  his  own  things,  and  forget  the  interests  of  others  ?  In  the 
natural  world  some  roll  in  luxury  while  others  die  of  starvation ; 
but  can  it  be  pleasing  to  God  that  the  bread  of  life  should  be  thus 
unfairly  distributed — God,  who  would  have  all  men  to  be  saved  and 
come  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth  ? 

And  the  tardiness  of  the  Church  in  sending  her  fishers  to  launch 
forth  into  the  deep,  and  let  down  their  nets  for  a  draught,  is  all  the 
more  strange  when  we  note  how  much  better  mission  work  pays, 
to  use  a  familiar  word,  than  the  ministry  at  home.  For  instance^ 
here  is  one  Church  which  by  the  labour  of  5,000  ministers,  at  an  ex- 


20 


"  Seek  ye  First  the  Kingdom  of  God" 


JMiilioniLLfi 

ll 

X 

'ii;, linn 

) 

136 

134 

132 

130 

128 

126 

124 

ISO 

^6 

J* 

112 



110 

;■: 

l'os 

:■: 

l'06 

.-. 

104 

■:• 

V02 

■. 

100 

18 

96 

.14 

■■ 

BO 

8s 

84 

- 

83 

7a 

74 

£ 

- 

c 

- 

72 

1  T 

70 

' 

8 

#*# 

68 

ggggg 

16 

• 

64 

■ 

62 

60 

:' 

. 

68 

" 

~ 

- 

54 

" 

" 

52= 

V 

■^v> 

- 

60 
18 

. 

1 

4 

e 

o- 

^ 

•7000^01 

16 

. 

~ 

wa 

4  a 

s\ 

«2 

= 

38 

'■;: 

r 

w/M 

lEEI 

35,000 

000 

K 

i 

36, 

1 

^ 

tC^K^s 

■e. 

^o.oooa 

I 

0" 

sol 

if 

241 
S3" 

&1|: 

'/, 

1 

r  - 

I! 

21 

;000.000- 

2o! 

f  ! 

'ixiv 

— 

■ 

' 

-     -     . 

- 

5.000.001 

a 

-oho4 

11 

1 

I 

'■| .  ,D 

1: 

,0.00.0 

00 

10 

a 

|Tj    | 

fi 

4 

iSO.i 

"1 

2 

IN 

TOXICATIN 
LIQUORS 

5  BREAD 

BUTTER 

AND 

CHEESE 

MILK 

"EA.COFFE 

AND 

COCOA 

COAL 

FOR 

HOUSEH't 
PURPOSES 

RENT 

OF 

HOUSES 

WOOLLEN 
GOODS 

C0TT0N  ]noriTimJ:HRISTIA> 
GOODS  tDUCATIOWM|SSIONS 

Diagram  illustrating  the  averaqe  expenditure  of  England  on  drink  as  compared  with  other  things. 


English  Christians  put  it  Last.  21 

pense  ot  more  than  a  million  and  a  half  of  money,  has  secured  an 
increase  of  less  than  half  a  person  per  cent,  per  annum  at  home;  while 
in  its  foreign  missions,  under  the  labours  of  130  missionaries,  at  an 
expense  of  only  ^"12,000,  it  has  been  blessed  with  additions  at  the 
rate  of  about  16  per  cent,  per  annum.  Sown  on  the  virgin  soil  of 
heathendom  the  seed  yields  thirtyfold ;  sown  on  the  exhausted  soil 
of  Christendom  it  does  not  yield  onefold  ! 

Our  Lord  bade  us  seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  His 
righteousness,  promising  that  food,  raiment,  and  other  things  should, 
if  we  did  so,  be  added  unto  us.  How  far  is  enlightened  Christian 
England  obeying  this  command  ?     Let  this  diagram  reply  ! 

The  nation  that  spends  on  alcohol  a  hundred  and  thirty-six 
millions  per  annum  spends  little  more  than  one  million  for  the 
extension  of  the  kingdom  of  God  on  earth,  for  the  proclamation  of 
the  gospel  among  the  heathen.  Comparing  the  Christian  missions 
column  with  the  drink  column,  it  is  almost  invisible  1 

If  a  tithe  only  of  the  sum  sacrificed  in  the  worship  and  service  of 
the  drink  demon  were  laid  on  the  altar  of  Christ,  the  Christian 
Church  would  have  means  sufficient  to  evangelize  the  world  in  this 
generation  !  But  last  and  lowest  on  the  list  of  objects  of  expendi- 
ture comes  the  giving  of  the  bread  of  life  to  the  heathen  !  And  yet 
our  Master  said,  "  If  ye  love  Me,  keep  My  commandments  " ;  and 
His  last  commandment  was,  "Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  proclaim 
the  glad  tidings  to  every  creature." 


%   trumpet   Call  to   Christians. 

BV    H.    G.    G. 

O  Church  of  the  living  God, 

Awake  from  thy  sinful  sleep  ! 
Dost  thou  not  hear  yon  awful  cry 

Still  sounding  o'er  the  deep  ? 
Is  it  naught  that  one  out  of  every  three 

Of  all  the  human  race 
Should  in  China  die,  having  never  heard 

The  gospel  of  God's  grace  ? 
Canst  thou  shut  thine  ear  to  the  awful  sound, 

The  voice  of  thy  brother's  blood  ? 
A  million  a  month  in  China 

Are  dying  without  God  ! 


22  "Awake,  t J  ion  that  Slccpest  /" 

Oh  !  speak  not  of  the  noble  few 

Who  the  gospel  sickle  wield, 
And  reap  some  sheaves  with  weary  hand 

On  the  edge  of  its  harvest  field  ; 
For  beyond  their  utmost  efforts 

Four  hundred  millions  lie, 
And  a  thousand  preachers  were  all  too  few 

To  reach  them  ere  they  die ! 
But  hear,  oh  !  hear  ye,  for  yourselves 

The  voice  of  your  brother's  blood  ! 
A  million  a  month  in  China 

Are  dying  without  God  ! 


O  watchman  of  God,  thou  seest 

The  sword  of  destruction  come, 
Why  soundest  thou  not  the  warning 

'Mid  the  hosts  of  heathendom  ? 
God  says  that  if  thou  warnest  not 

The  wicked  at  His  command, 
lie  shall  perish — but  his  blood  shall  be 

Required  at  thy  hand  ! 
Oh  !  cleanse  thy  hands  from  murder, 

From  the  stain  of  thy  brother's  blood 
Two  million  a  month  of  heathen 

Ai"e  dying  without  God  ! 


And  ye  who  cannot  go,  oh  !  help 

With  the  wondrous  weapon,  prayer; 
While  ye  uplift  your  hands  at  home, 

The  Cross  shall  triumph  there. 
And  give  ye  freely  from  your  store 

To  the  warriors  in  the  field  ; 
The  more  you  give  to  you  the  more 

Barrel  and  cruse  shall  yield. 
So  only  can  you  cleanse  your  hands 

From  the  guiltiness  of  blood  ; 
Two  million  a  month  of  heathen 

Are  dying  without  God  ! 


&ystyitt  II. 

OUR  INSTITUTE,  AND  WHY  WE  FOUNDED  IT, 

It  was  the  knowledge  of  facts  such  as  those  mentioned  in  the  last 
chapter  that  led  to  the  foundation,  in  1872,  of  our  East  London 
Institute  for  Home  and  Foreign  Missions.  We  had  travelled 
a  good  deal  in  all  the  four  quarters  of  the  world,  and  seen  for  our- 
selves  the  condition,  not  only  of  Protestant,  but  of  Roman  Catholic, 
Greek  Church,  Mohammedan,  and  heathen  peoples  in  different 
parts  of  the  earth,  and  we  had  read  and  heard  much  of  other  parts 
which  we  had  not  personally  visited. 

We  had  come  in  contact  also,  in  connection  with  our  evange- 
listic work  in  Great  Britain  and  America,  with  large  numbers  of 
Christian  young  men,  some  of  whom  had  been  converted  to  God  in 
the  revivals  of  1859  and  subsequent  years,  and  who  were  filled  with 
love  and  zeal,  longing  to  give  their  lives  to  the  service  of  Christ,  but 
for  whose  service  in  the  gospel  there  seemed  to  be  little  opening  in 
these  Christian  lands.  We  were  deeply  impressed  with  the  con- 
viction that  a  great  amount  of  precious  spiritual  power  was  being 
allowed  to  run  to  waste — power  which  ought  for  every  reason  to 
be  turned  to  account  on  behalf  of  heathendom.  Many  of  these 
men  were  well  adapted  for  missionary  work,  and  perfectly  willing 
to  devote  their  lives  to  it ;  but  they  were  not  likely  ever  to  get  into 
it  unless  they  were  helped  to  secure,  first,  a  suitable  training  for  it, 
and,  secondly,  an  introduction  into  it. 

We  realized  that  the  existing  agencies,  the  missionary  societies 
already  devoted  to  the  great  task  of  evangelizing  the  world,  were 
totally  inadequate  to  accomplish  it.  It  was  admitted  and  confessed 
by  all  that  they  could  never  overtake  the  work,  and  we  felt  that 
there  was  needed,  as  regards  missions,  the  same  change  that  had 
passed  over  the  Christian  world  as  regards  the  home  ministry. 
Fifty  years  ago,  Christian  work  at  home  was  supposed  to  be  the 
duty  of  a  certain  ministerial  class  only ;  the  ministry  was  a  "  pro- 


24  Who  should  Go  ? 

fession  "  like  the  law  or  medicine,  and  those  who  were  not  in  the 
profession  held  themselves  exonerated  from  responsibility  to  seek 
and  save  the  lost,  or  to  serve  God  in  the  gospel.  Already  such 
unscriptural  notions  had  melted  away  as  regards  the  evangelization 
of  our  home  heathen,  and  it  had  come  to  be  realized  that  the  work 
belonged  to  the  Church  and  not  to  any  section  of  it,  and  that  every 
member  of  the  Church  should  take  part  in  it,  according  to  his  special 
ability ;  noblemen,  gentlemen,  professional  men,  merchants,  trades- 
men, mechanics,  and  scholars,  as  well  as  ministers,  working  men 
and  working  women,— all  were  wanted,  all  were  called,  and  all  were 
blessed.     But  there  still  lingered  among  us 

THE    UNSCRIPTURAL    NOTION 

that  a  certain  class  only,  professional  missionaries,  had  any  respon- 
sibility about  evangelizing  the  heathen.     We  felt  that  the  sooner 
that  notion  followed  the  other  the  better,  as  it  was  equally  contrary 
to  the  word  of  God.     The  responsibility  to  obey  Christ's  last  great 
command,  Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  proclaim  the  glad  tidings 
to  every  creature,— rests  on  all  who  have  the  power  to  do  so  ;  and  it 
will   rest  on  them  as  long  as  there  are  in  our  world  a  thousand 
millions  of  heathen  men  and  women  perishing  in  ignorance  of  the 
way  of  salvation.     The  notion  that  highly  cultured  and  university 
trained  men  alone  should  be  sent  out  to  the  foreign  field,  though 
endorsed  by  the  action  of  most  of  the  societies,  was,  we  thought, 
hindering  the  spread  of  the  gospel.     The  few  experiments  that  had 
then  been  tried  of  a  different  course  of  action  had  been  eminently 
successful.      Highly  cultured  men  are,   of  course,  needed  in  mis- 
sionary work,  and  are  essential  to  its  highest  prosperity ;  they  are 
needed  to  do  literary  work,  to  reduce  unwritten  tongues,  to  trans- 
late the  Scriptures  ;  and  such  ought  to  be,  and  sometimes  are,  best 
suited  to  train  and  teach  native  evangelists,  to  lead  and  organize, 
to  direct  and  to  originate.     But  were  they  the  only  men  needed  ? 
Did  any  army  consisting  of  officers  only  ever  march  to  victory  ? 
were  not  rank  and  file  required  as  well  ?     And  did  not  the  mission 
army    need    such,  hundreds    and    thousands    of    them  ?      Was   it 
essential  that  all,  or  even  the  great  majority,  of  missionaries  should 
be  scholarly   gentlemen,  who  would  expect   and   require   a    good 
income  of  ^300  to  ^500  a  year?     Did  the  ninety  per  cent,   ot 
the  population  of  China  who  cannot  even  read,  or  the  savages  ot 


Does  an  Army  consist  of  Officers  only?  25 

Central  Africa  or  the  New  Hebrides,  demand  teachers  of  a  higher 
stamp  than  do  the  working  classes  in  these  countries  ?  Should 
we  not  esteem  it  a  great  waste  of  resources  to  insist  that  all 
home  and  city  missionaries  should  be  classical  scholars  ?  And 
are  not  workers  of  all  classes  required  among  the  heathen  as  much 
as  at  home  ? 

Many  a  young  man  came  to  us  for  counsel,  eagerly  longing  to 
consecrate  his  life  to  missionary  work,  but  without  either  the  leisure 
or  the  means,  or  perhaps  even  the  inclination,  for  a  long  and 
elaborate  course  of  study.  Intelligent  artisans,  young  clerks  in 
banks  and  offices,  assistants  in  shops,  the  sons  of  farmers,  mates 
of  vessels,  shipbuilders,  and  other  skilled  mechanics,  tradesmen  of 
all  sorts,  teachers,  and  others,  were  found  as  willing  and  anxious 
to  serve  Christ  among  the  heathen  as  ministers  and  gentlemen 
could  be. 

We  asked  ourselves,  were  these  brave,  resolute  young  spirits, 
full  of  the  ardour  of  first  love,  many  of  them  full  of  grace  and  of 
natural  ability  and  power,  to  be  set  aside  as  valueless  ?  Would 
Christ  have  refused  the  co-operation  of  such  because  they  were 
poorly  educated  or  of  humble  birth  ?  Had  He  no  place  for  them 
in  the  foreign  mission  field,  He  who  chose  fishermen  for  His  own 
companions  and  apostles  ?  Were  they  not  rather  the  very  men 
needed  for  the  glorious  but  rough  work  of  pioneering  in  the  un- 
touched portions  of  heathendom  ?  Their  practical  knowledge  and 
their  habits  of  steady  industry  and  endurance  of  toil  and  hardness, 
were  surely  as  useful  a  preparation  for  certain  spheres  of  service 
as  the  trained  mental  ability  of  other  men  for  other  spheres.  We 
remember  that  when  of  old  Solomon's  temple  was  to  be  erected, 
and  even  previously  to  that,  when  the  tabernacle  in  the  wilderness 
was  to  be  constructed,  helpers  of  all  kinds  were  required  to  accom- 
plish the  work,  and  an  immense  variety  of  such  were  provided  by 
God,  and  specially  endowed  with  the  peculiar  talents  adapting  them 
for  their  respective  tasks.  We  read,  "They  came,  both  men  and 
women,  as  many  as  were  willing-hearted,"  to  the  help  of  Moses  ; 
"  and  all  the  women  that  were  wise-hearted  did  spin  with  their  hands  ; 

.  .  and  the  rulers  brought  precious  stones."  God  filled  all 
the  voluntary  workers  with  "  wisdom  of  heart,  to  work  all  manner  ot 
work,  of  the  engraver,  and  of  the  cunning  workman,  and  of  the 
embroiderer,  .  .  .  and  of  the  weaver,  even  of  them  that  do 
any  work,  and   of  those  that  devise  cunning  work.     Then  wrought 


26  The  Missing  Link. 

Bezaleel  and  Aholiab,  and  every  wise-hearted  man,  in  whom  the 
Lord  put  wisdom  and  understanding  to  know  how  to  work  all 
manner  of  work  for  the  fervice  of  the  sanctuary." 

We  knew  that  it  was  the  design  of  God  that  it  should  be  the 
same  in  the  rearing  of  His  spiritual  sanctuary,  the  temple  of  living 
stones  ;  that  in  the  Church  there  were  "  diversities  of  gifts,  but  the 
same  Spirit " ;  differences  of  operation,  but  the  same  God  working 
all  in  all;  and  that  "the  manifestation  of  the  Spirit  is  given  to 
every  man  to  profit  withal."  Those  members  of  the  body  which 
seem  to  be  more  feeble  are  necessary,  and  the  Spirit  "  divides  to 
every  man  severally  as  He  will."  No  house  could  be  built  by 
architects  only,  nor  with  big  stones  only.  Masons  and  carpenters 
arc  equally  needful  to  the  work,  and  small  stones  are  wanted  for 
small  places.  God  gives  to  a  hundred  men  one  or  two  talents,  to 
a  few  only,  ten — proving  that  He  does  not  require  all  His  ser- 
vants to  be  of  one  class,  or  to  do  one  work. 

We  saw  a  terrible  lack  of  workers,  on  the  one  hand,  and  an 
abundant  but  unutilized  supply,  on  the  other  ;  and  the  question  pre- 
sented itself  forcibly  to  our  minds,  Might  we  not  become  a  link  that 
should  unite  the  two,  a  channel  through  which  the  supply  might 
flow  to  the  points  where  it  was  needed  ?  Could  we  not  offer  to  some 
of  those  young  servants  of  God  an  opportunity  of  proving  them- 
selves, whether  or  no  they  were  fit  for  the  work  to  which  they 
aspired,  the  high  and  holy  work  which,  while  in  one  sense  simple, 
is  in  other  senses  most  difficult,  needing  not  only  great  grace,  much 
self-denial  and  perseverance,  but  superior  intelligence,  ability,  and 
force  of  character — not  necessarily  much  learning,  but  certainly 
much  native  talent  ?  On  the  other  hand,  to  encourage  and  send 
out  untried  and  untrained  men  to  undertake  this  task  were  clearly 
folly; 

"let  such  first  be  proved" 

is  a  dictate  of  common  sense  as  well  as  a  precept  of  Scripture. 
Paul  said  to  Timothy,  as  regards  the  truths  of  the  gospel  which 
he  had  taught  him,  "the  same  commit  thou  to  faithful  men  who 
shall  be  able  to  teach  others  also."  We  were  deeply  convinced  that 
before  men  are  sent  forth  to  do  missionary  work  among  the  heathen 
ability  for  it  should  be  practically  tested,  and,  when  found  to  exist, 
developed  by  practice  in  missionary  work  at  home.     The  prepara- 


What  a  Missionary  short  Id  Know.  27 

tion  for  all  ordinary  work  consists  in  the  actual  doing  of  it,  not  merely 
in  gaining  a  theoretical  knowledge  of  how  it  ought  to  be  done. 
There  seems  to  be  no  good  reason  why  mission  work  should  be  an 
exception  to  the  rule. 

And  quite  apart  from  this  essential  practical  training  for  the 
work,  we  realized  that  the  class  of  men  whom  we  desired  to  help 
would  require  a  certain  measure  of  definite  instruction  also.  We 
did  not  think  that  it  would  be  desirable  to  teach  them  classics  and 
mathematics,  but  rather  to  ground  them  well  in  general  knowledge, 
to  sow  in  their  minds  the  seeds  of  truth  on  many  questions  for  future 
germination,  to  give  them  main  outlines  and  fundamental  prin- 
ciples rather  than  to  crowd  their  memories  with  minor  details.  A 
missionary  should  know  something  of  everything.  He  is  to  be  a 
traveller ;  he  should  know  something  of  scenes  through  which  he 
may  have  to  pass,  and  should  therefore  have  a  fair  idea  of  the  world's 
geography.  In  his  often  lonely  journeys  the  open  volume  of  the 
planetary  and  starry  firmament  will  meet  his  eye  ;  should  he  not  be 
able  to  decipher  its  golden  letters  ?  He  may  have  to  steer  his 
course  over  trackless  waters  or  sandy  deserts,  and  will  be  better  oft 
if  able  to  calculate  his  latitude  and  longitude  ;  he  may  be  deprived 
of  ordinary  means  of  measuring  time,  and  should  have  the  ability  to 
construct  a  sundial ;  he  should  be  able  to  explain  the  reason  of  solar 
and  lunar  eclipses — mysterious  and  often  fearful  phenomena  to 
heathen  minds.  His  distant  sphere  of  labour  may  have  a  vegetation 
very  different  from  that  to  which  he  is  accustomed.  His  eyes  should 
be  trained  to  detect  its  revelation  of  the  wisdom  and  goodness  of 
God.  A  general  knowledge  of  the  elements  of  botany  may  help 
him,  besides,  to  discriminate  between  poisons  and  food,  and  to 
select  natural  products  for  purposes  of  healing.  He  may  be  placed 
far  away  from  any  skilled  physician,  and  have  to  be,  not  only  his 
own  doctor,  but  that  of  others ;  how  invaluable  therefore  even  a 
slight  knowledge  of  the  first  principles  of  anatomy  and  physiology, 
and  of  the  use  of  certain  simple  medical  and  surgical  aids  ! 

Of  all  men,  a  missionary  should  be  a  man  of  general  intelligence ; 
and  without  a  measure  of  cultivation,  intelligence  on  these  and 
similar  subjects  is  impossible.  He  should  also  be  enough  of  a 
practical  mechanic  to  know  how  to  supplement  physical  strength  by 
the  use  of  the  mechanical  forces.  He  may  have  to  build  his  house, 
to  make  his  furniture,  to  till  his  garden,  to  cook  his  food,  to  make 
his  clothes  and  mend  them,  as  well  as  to  work  the  printing  press, 


28  Needed  Preparation  for  Missionary  Life. 

etc. ;  and  knowledge  on  all  such  subjects  will  be  valuable.  Then 
it  is  essentially  important  that  he  should  know  the  world's  history, 
at  least  so  far  as  to  perceive  the  background  of  Bible  facts.  In 
addition  to  a  knowledge  of  Jewish  history  as  contained  in  Scripture, 
he  should  be  acquainted  with  the  history  of  the  chosen  people 
during  the  interval  between  the  two  Testaments,  and  with  the 
judgments  which  have  fallen  on  them  since  their  rejection  of  the 
Messiah.  Nor  should  he  be  ignorant  of  the  history  of  Christianity, 
its  early  triumphs  and  subsequent  corruptions,  the  origin  and  pro- 
gress of  existing  apostasies,  the  story  of  the  Reformation,  etc.  He 
should  also  be  acquainted  with  the  history  of  modern  missions  and 
eminent  missionaries,  for  such  records  are  full  of  warning,  instruc- 
tion, and  encouragement  peculiarly  suited  to  his  own  case.  Then 
he  must  have  grammatical  knowledge,  for  it  will  greatly  facilitate 
his  acquisition  of  a  foreign  tongue  to  understand  the  construction  of 
his  own. 

He  is  to  teach  the  word  of  God ;  it  will  conduce  to  his  accurate 
acquaintance  with  its  text  to  be  able  to  read  at  least  the  New 
Testament  in  the  original  Greek.  But  above  all,  it  is  with  the  truth 
taught  in  the  text  that  a  missionary's  mind  should  be  thoroughly 
furnished.  He  should  be  taught  to  understand  the  Bible  as  a  whole, 
and  the  doctrinal  teachings  of  the  Bible  in  their  variety  and  har- 
mony. He  needs  to  be  imbued,  not  only  with  knowledge  about 
the  Bible,  but  with  the  Bible  itself,  with  its  soul-converting  and  soul- 
sustaining  truths.  It  will  have  to  be  the  support  of  his  life  and  the 
instrument  of  his  labours,  and  it  should  therefore  be  the  main  object 
of  his  study  ;  and  in  order  also  to  answer  the  questions  of  inquirers 
and  the  objections  of  adversaries,  he  should  be  able  to  state  the 
external  and  internal  grounds  on  which  we  believe  it  to  be  authentic 
and  Divine;  and  knowledge  to  one  who  is  to  occupy  the  position 
of  a  teacher  is  essential,  and  the  mind  is  strengthened  and  enlarged 
by  study.  A  measure  of  mental  culture  is  besides  a  preservative 
against  prejudice  and  presumption,  narrow-mindedness  and  conceit. 
It  is  well  for  us  all  to  know  how  little  we  know,  that  we  may  through 
life  retain  the  spirit  of  learners,  and  exhibit  the  grace  of  humility. 

After  much  prayerful  consideration,  we  resolved  therefore  to  make 
an  attempt  to  open  a  Training  Home  and  simple  College  for  mis- 
sionary volunteers,  and  the  East  of  London  was  selected  as  a  suitable 
locality,  inhabited  as  it  is  by  a  million  of  the  working  classes, 
multitudes  of  whom  have,  as  is  well  known,  lapsed  into  practical 


Resolution  to  Act,  and  Early  Difficulties.  29 

heathenism,  and  are  in  almost  as  deep  need  of  earnest  missionary 
efforts  as  Hindus  or  Chinese. 

It  is  one  thing  however  to  see  what  ought  to  be  done,  and  an- 
other to  do  it.  The  moment  practical  action  is  attempted  in  any 
new  line  of  things  a  legion  of  difficulties  make  their  appearance,  and 
unbelief  suggests  that  they  are  so  serious  that  it  is  scarcely  worth 
while  to  try.  In  this  case  the  obstacles  which  presented  themselves 
were  various.  Should  we  find  suitable  men  willing  to  throw  up 
their  prospects  in  life  and  their  home  associations,  without  any  cer- 
tain assurance  of  remunerative  employment  as  missionaries  at  the 
end  of  their  course  of  training  ?  We  could  train  such  men  if  we 
found  them,  though  it  would  need  many  a  meeting,  many  an  address, 
many  a  journey,  and  much  correspondence  to  find  them ;  and  should 
we  be  able  to  secure  for  them  openings  and  support  when  trained  ? 
We  did  not  propose  to  become  a  missionary  society  ;  how  would  the 
men  then  get  out  into  the  field  ? 

And,  further,  how  were  the  expenses  of  such  a  Training  Home 
to  be  met  ?  They  were  not  designed  for  gentlemen  of  means,  who 
can,'  if  so  inclined,  secure  for  themselves  every  advantage,  but  for 
young  men  who,  being  earnestly  desirous  of  missionary  work, 
gifted  for  it,  and  suited  to  it,  were  prevented  from  making  pre- 
paration for  it  by  the  duty  of  labouring  for  their  daily  bread — 
men  who,  in  giving  themselves  to  the  Lord's  work,  were  giving  all 
they  had  to  give.  Most  of  them  would  probably  require  two  or 
three  years  of  preparation,  and  in  the  case  of  those  who  desired  to 
study  medicine,  a  much  longer  time.  It  would  be  needful,  not  only 
to  support  each  man  during  his  course  of  study,  but  to  provide  suit- 
able tutors,  lecturers,  and  helpers  of  various  kinds,  to  undertake 
missions  among  the  irreligious  classes  of  the  people — so  as  to  pro- 
vide a  training  ground  for  the  students — and,  finally,  to  meet  the 
passage  and  outfit  expenses  necessary  to  enable  men  when  ready 
to  reach  the  sphere  of  their  future  labour.  All  this  would  involve 
an  outlay  in  proportion  to  the  numbers  trained,  and,  in  any  case, 
considerable.  Buildings  would  have  to  be  provided  and  furnished  ; 
books  and  apparatus  would  be  needful ;  and  where  were  the  funds 
for  all  these  to  come  from  ? 

We  had  none  !  And  it  added  to  the  difficulty  of  the  position  that 
we  belonged  to  no  one  denomination  of  the  Church  in  particular, 
and  so  had  no  ready-made  constituency  to  depend  upon.  For 
fifteen  years  we  had  been  evangelizing  among  all  denominations  and 


30  Removal  to  London. 

in  various  countries ;  we  wished  to  receive  men  from  all  denomi- 
nations and  of  all  nationalities,  and  to  send  them  out  to  preach  the 
one  gospel  common  to  all  the  evangelical  sections  of  the  Church. 
Hence  the  proposed  Institute  could  evidently  have 

NO   DENOMINATIONAL   CONNECTIONS    OR   SUPPORT. 

It  would  have  to  depend  on  God  and  on  those  of  His  people  whose 
hearts  embrace  all  who  love  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  sincerity. 
These,  alas  !  are  but  a  small  minority  anywhere.  To  discover  them, 
to  interest  them  in  our  project,  and  to  secure  their  practical  help, 
was  evidently  no  light  task.  Then  again  we  should  have  to  leave 
our  pleasant  home  in  the  city  of  Bath,  and  take  our  little  ones  into 
the  comparatively  unfavourable  surroundings  of  East  London,  for 
the  work  would  need  personal  supervision ;  it  would  also  largely 
curtail  our  own  power  of  ministry  ;  and  many  other  difficulties  sug- 
gested themselves.  To  them  all  there  was  but  one  answer  :  if  it 
were  God's  will  that  such  an  effort  should  be  made  to  help  His 
young  servants  to  serve  Him  more  effectually,  to  multiply  the  num- 
ber of  ambassadors  for  Christ  among  the  heathen,  He  would  help, 
He  would  prosper,  He  would  bless.  Is  anything  too  hard  for  the 
Lord  ?  We  remembered  that  difficulties  always  look  worst  at  a  dis- 
tance, as  a  hill  sometimes,  as  you  approach  it,  appears  almost  per- 
pendicular and  quite  inaccessible,  yet  is  easily  scaled  when  you 
reach  it. 

The  first  thing  was  to  get  on  to  the  field  of  action.  We  thought 
we  might  take  it  as  an  indication  of  Divine  guidance  if  we  were 
helped  to  do  this.  It  costs  a  good  round  sum  to  remove  a  large 
household  and  all  their  belongings  to  a  distance  of  a  hundred 
miles !  Our  family  already  at  that  time  numbered  fourteen,  and 
some  of  its  members  were  infant  children,  and  one  was  very  aged. 
The  first  friend  to  whom  we  mentioned  our  project  cordially  en- 
dorsed it,  and  said  of  his  own  accord,  "  I  will  gladly  hand  you 
^"200  to  enable  you  to  remove  to  London  and  get  to  work."  We 
accepted  this  as  guidance,  and  lost  no  time  in  starting  our  enter- 
prise. We  speedily  found  a  roomy,  old-fashioned  house  in  Stepney 
Green,  where  we  commenced  operations  in  a  very  simple  way.  As 
the  result  of  missionary  addresses  delivered  by  Mr.  Guinness  in 
various  parts  of  the  country,  applications  were  received  from  about 
a  hundred  young  men  who  wished  to  consecrate  themselves  to  the 


The  Beginning — a  Hundred  Applicants.  31 

service  of  Christ  among  the  heathen.  Many  of  these  had  more 
desire  for  the  work  than  adaptation  to  it.  Some  were  too  young 
and  some  too  recently  converted  to  make  their  immediate  reception 
advisable  ;  but  thirty-two  were  selected  and  received  during  the  first 
year,  who  had  all  been  more  or  less  voluntarily  engaged  in  the  Lord's 
work  for  some  time  previously,  devoting  to  it  such  leisure  as  they 
could  command.  Some  of  these  belonged  to  the  Church  of  England, 
others  were  Presbyterians,  Independents,  Baptists,  or  Wesleyans, 
As  to  nationality,  two  were  French,  one  was  a  Russian,  one  a 
Hindu,  one  a  Syrian,  several  were  Scotch  and  Irish,  and  there  were 
Englishmen  from  all  parts  of  the  country.  They  varied  in  age  and 
in  attainments  ;  some  had  unmistakable  gifts  as  preachers,  and  all 
had  more  or  less  of  this  essential  qualification. 

Wishing  to  preserve  habits  of  practical  industry  and  usefulness,  we 
kept  scarcely  any  servants,  but,  as  many  hands  make  light  work,  the 
household  duties  were  rapidly  accomplished,  and  both  health  and 
spirits  were  improved  by  variety  of  occupation.  The  morning  hours 
were  devoted  to  study  and  the  evenings  to  evangelistic  work,  visiting 
from  house  to  house,  open  air  preaching,  and  holding  meetings  in 
halls  and  chapels  in  and  around  London.  Thus  the  men  were 
brought  in  contact  with  multitudes  of  the  wretched  and  depraved. 
In  Stepney,  Whitechapel,  Bethnal  Green,  Limehouse,  and  Shadwell 
they  met  infidels,  Romanists,  Jews,  French  and  German  immigrants, 
and  Asiatics  of  various  classes.  They  had  free  access  to  the  lodging 
houses,  and  to  hundreds  of  more  respectable  dwellings,  in  the  miles 
of  narrow  and  populous  streets,  which  stretch  around  this  neighbour- 
hood in  every  direction.  Thousands  of  conversations  on  the  things 
of  God  were  held  with  people  plunged  in  ignorance  and  vice  ;  but 
open-air  preaching  was  the  principal  work  of  the  students. 

The  value  of  this  mode  of  labour  as  a  preparation  for  missionary 
work  is  exceedingly  great.  It  is  one  that  cultivates  an  aggressive 
spirit,  boldness,  and  self-command ;  simplicity,  directness,  and 
earnestness  of  style ;  an  extemporaneous  delivery,  and  an  interest- 
ing, striking  manner  of  presenting  Divine  truths.  The  open  air 
preacher  has  first  to  gather  his  congregation,  then  to  hold  it  to  him 
by  sustaining  its  attention,  and  that  in  spite  ot  surrounding  noises 
and  distractions,  and  this  with  nothing  but  the  simple  power  of  his 
words.  He  has  to  suit  his  style  to  the  roughest  and  most  ignorant 
of  his  auditors,  as  well  as  to  the  most  cultivated ;  to  meet  objections, 
to  answer  questions,  to  quiet  disturbances,  and  to  win  an  entrance 

b  * 


FUNERAL   CEREMONY    IN 


COUNTRY,   INDO-CHINA. 


34  From  Stepney  Green  to  Harley  House. 

for  unwelcome  truths  into  the  minds  and  hearts  of  persons  neglecting 
or  rejecting  the  word  of  God.  Mr.  Guinness  used  himself  to  lead 
the  men  out  in  this  work.  The  broad  Mile  End  Waste,  thronged 
by  thousands  of  the  working  classes,  Victoria  Park  with  its  infidel 
lecturers,  and  other  spots  were  frequented  ;  and  even  foreigners,  who 
are  somewhat  timid  as  to  such  aggressive  methods  of  evangelizing, 
soon  gained  courage  and  became  open  air  preachers. 

In  the  second  year  ot  our  work  we  had  out-grown  the  quarters 
in  Stepney  Green,  which  were  moreover  in  many  ways  ill  adapted 
to  the  purposes  of  a  college.  We  were  providentially  led  to  the 
premises  which  are  still  the  head-quarters  of  the  mission, 

Harley  House,  Bow. 

It  is  difficult  in  East  London  to  find  any  capacious  dwelling, 
and  especially  one  which  has  land  attached  to  it.  The  following 
extract  from  the  Report  of  the  year  1874  will  give  an  idea  of  the 
London  quarters  which  are  still  occupied  by  the  Institute  : 

Harley  House  is  neither  so  old  nor  so  ugly  as  29,  Stepney  Green.  It  is 
more  substantial  and  more  convenient,  considerably  larger  also,  and  capable  of 
further  enlargement.  Though  by  no  means  a  modern  house,  it  has  been 
modernized  by  its  late  occupier — a  gentleman  who,  being  an  architect  by  pro- 
fession, expended  to  the  best  advantage  the  sum  he  laid  out  upon  it,  in  alterations 
and  additions,  which  are  radical  improvements.  It  stands  in  the  great  thorough- 
fare of  East  London,  the  Bow  Road.  As  we  hope  many  of  our  kind  friends  will 
pay  us  a  visit,  we  will  add  that  omnibuses  from  the  Bank,  and  trams  from 
Aldgate,  pass  the  door  every  five  minutes. 

The  disadvantages  ot  Harley  House  are  therefore  the  dust  and  noise  of  a  busy 
thoroughfare,  where  there  is  an  incessant  traffic  from  four  in  the  morning  until 
long  past  midnight.  But  as  it  stands  a  little  back  from  the  road,  and  has  a  small 
garden  with  high  trees  in  front,  the  noise  is  endurable  when  the  windows  are  shut, 
and  its  inmates  can  hear  each  other  speak  even  when  thi-y  are  open.  The  high 
trees  form  a  valuable  blind  to  screen  us  from  the  sun,  and  give  besides  some 
measure  of  privacy,  without  quite  depriving  the  passengers  on  the  tops  of  the 
trams  and  omnibuses  of  a  view  of  what  goes  on  inside. 

But  the  beauty  of  Harley  House  lies  all  at  the  back!  Many  friends  who  come 
to  see  us  labour  under  the  popular  delusion  that  nothing  even  passably  decent  is 
to  be  found  in  the  poor  plebeian  "East  of  London."  As  to  meeting  anything  in 
the  least  degree  pleasant  or  pretty  in  Stepney,  Limehouse,  Bow,  and  Poplar, 
they  have  considered  that  an  impossibility  !  We  have  seen  such  open  their  eyes 
with  astonishment,  on  looking  through  the  glass  panels  of  our  front  door,  to  see 
fine  old  fruit  trees  throwing  their  pleasant  shadows  over  a  good  lawn  in  a  garden 
of  an  acre  in  extent,  filled  with  flowers  and  refreshed  by  a  fine  fountain  ! 

We  have  been  amused  indeed  at  times  at  the  hesitation  with  which  some  of 
our  friends  have  treated  an  invitation  to  Bow.  "  Is  it  not  a—  a—  very  disagreeable 
neighbourhood?"     "Do  you  find  it  tolerably  healthy?"      "  How  do  your  dear 


Out  Home  in  East  London.  35 

children  stand  the  close  atmosphere?"  etc.,  etc.  We  are  in  honour  bound  to 
justify  our  ancient  and  respectable  suburb  from  such  insinuations  !  True  its  noise 
is  trying,  its  dirt  and  dust  disagreeable,  and  its  atmosphere  anything  but  invigora- 
ting. We  sometimes  gasp  for  a  fresh  breeze,  and  sigh  for  other  sights  than  a 
never-ending  succession  of  omnibuses  and  market  carts,  and  for  other  sounds 
than  the  shriek  of  the  railway  whistle  and  the  tinkle  of  the  tram-bell.  But  when 
we  recall  the  lot  of  our  missionary  friends  in  the  narrow  lanes  and  streets  of  un- 
drained  Chinese  cities,  unable  to  secure  in  their  comfortless  dwellings  even  privacy 
from  rude  and  curious  crowds,  or  freedom  from  fever-breeding  odours,  we  feel  the 
lines  have  fallen  unto  us  in  comparatively  pleasant  places,  and  that  we  have  good 
reason  to  be  content  with  such  things  as  we  have.  We  know  many  a  worse  place 
that  has  a  better  reputation,  and  for  our  own  part  would  quite  as  soon  live  in  the 
broad,  cheerful,  airy  Bow  Road,  as  in  many  a  dull,  confined,  and  built  up  West- 
end  square,  or  in  many  an  elevated,  cage-like  apartment  on  the  palace-lined 
Boulevards  of  Paris. 

But  it  was  not  on  account  of  its  attractions  (such  as  they  are)  that  we  selected 
the  East  of  London  as  the  place  for  our  Mission  Training  Home,  but  on  account 
of  its  necessities  ;  and  even  at  Harley  House  we  are  constantly  reminded  of  these. 
As  we  pen  these  lines  at  midnight,  sounds  that  never  disturb  the  echoes  of  the 
West-end  squares  are  paining  our  ears,  and  reminding  us  that  there  are  mul- 
titudes around  us  whose  highest  enjoyments  are  found  in  the  lowest  sensual 
indulgences,  and  who  cannot,  as  do  some,  conceal  the  fact  under  veils  of  refine- 
ment and  gentility. 

We  are  surrounded  by  a  million  of  the  working  classes,  multitudes  of  whom 
live  in  open  and  habitual  neglect  of  even  the  forms  of  religion.  We  have  in  our 
immediate  neighbourhood  extensive  factories  and  works  of  various  kinds,  employ- 
ing thousands  of  hands — the  handsomest  building  in  the  district  is  the  workhouse 
infirmary,  nearly  opposite  Harley  House  ;  the  suffering  and  dying  of  the  huge 
"  London  Hospital  "  are  within  easy  access  ;  as  also  the  Tower  with  its  garrison  ot 
soldiers  ;  the  docks,  with  their  ample  opportunities  for  evangelizing  among  various 
nationalities  ;  and  the  Asiatic  Home,  where  orientals  of  all  sorts  are  constantly 
coming  and  going.     Mission  work  abounds  on  every  hand  all  round  our  Institute. 

We  needed  Harley  House  because  we  had  outgrown  Stepney  Green.  Every 
living  thing  grows,  more  or  less  rapidly  for  a  time,  and  growth  is  generally  greatest 
at  first.  Our  little  work  has  grown  so  rapidly,  in  spite  of  some  adverse  circum- 
stances, during  its  second  year,  that  we  are  inclined  to  hope  it  has  a  strong 
constitution,  is  likely  to  survive  the  dangers  of  infancy,  and  do  some  good  in  the 
world  by-and-by.  It  has  more  than  doubled  its  proportions  in  every  directioni 
since  we  last  wrote  ;  some  of  our  kind  friends  and  advisers  fear  lest  it  should  grow 
too  rapidly  for  its  strength,  but  we,  who  watch  its  development  with  parental 
interest,  observe  no  signs  of  weakness,  and  hope,  by  the  continued  blessing  of 
God,  to  see  it  early  attain  a  vigorous  maturity.  Our  lives  are  so  brief,  and  already 
so  far  spent,  that  we  are  intensely  anxious  to  do  all  we  can  while  we  can,  in  order 
that  it  may  become  a  real  blessing  in  the  earth  ;  and  that  it  will,  by  the  help  of 
God,  do  this,  is  our  earnest  expectation  and  our  hope. 

During  the  second  year  we  received  about  fifty  additional 
students,  and  this  though  we  were  careful  to  strip  the  prospect  of 
missionary  service  of  any  false  halo  of  attractiveness,  which  mere  senti- 
mentality would  throw  around  it,  and  to  place  its  dark  and  painful 


$6  The  First  Twelve. 

side,  as  well  as  its  brighter  one,  before  each  volunteer.  Self-sacrifice 
is  demanded  of  every  missionary.  We  reminded  young  men  of  the 
perils  by  sea  and  by  land,  the  perils  to  health  and  to  life  itself, 
which  awaited  them;  of  the  arduous  and  uninteresting  mental  toil 
involved  in  the  acquirement  of  new  languages  ;  of  the  pain  of  pro- 
longed separation  from  Christian  associations  and  family  connec- 
tions ;  of  the  saddening  sense  of  isolation  which  attends  residence 
among  the  heathen,  and  of  the  discouragements  arising  from 
apparently  fruitless  labour  ;  of  the  difficulty  of  grappling  with  the 
indifference  and  unbelief  of  the  human  heart,  through  the  medium 
of  a  foreign  tongue,  and  in  those  whose  thoughts  and  feelings  are 
at  best  imperfectly  understood  ;  of  the  utter  absence  of  any  hope 
of  earthly  gain  or  advancement  which  characterizes  a  missionary 
career,  and  of  its  other  trying  but  inseparable  accompaniments. 
It  is  in  full  view  of  these  things  that  our  young  brethren  responded 
to  the  Master's  call,  with  a  "  Here  am  I,  send  me,"  and  came  to 
us  to  prepare  themselves  for  their  life-work.     During  that  year  also 

OUR    FIRST    BAND    OF    TWELVE    MISSIONARIES 

went  out.  From  China,  Japan,  India,  Burma,  Arabia,  Africa, 
both  east,  west,  and  south,  from  Mexico,  Rio  Janeiro,  Demerara, 
and  the  West  Indies,  as  well  as  from  New  Zealand  and  Australia, 
and  many  spheres  at  home,  we  had  already  received  invitations  to 
send  out  young  labourers  into  the  vineyard.  We  could  not,  of 
course,  respond  to  many  of  these  so  early  in  the  day,  as  we  were 
anxious  to  give  the  men  a.  fair  amount  of  training  before  they  went 
forth  ;  but  we  responded  to  a  few.  We  hung  over  the  dining-room 
chimney-piece  at  Harley  House  a  frame  holding  a  dozen  photograph 
portraits  of  "  our  first  twelve."  Never  did  we  look  at  a  picture 
of  any  kind  with  more  interest !  It  carried  our  minds  back  to 
the  workroom  or  office,  to  the  hall  or  chapel,  where  we  first  met 
each  one  of  these  dear  labourers,  to  the  vessel's  deck  where  we 
took  our  last  farewell  of  them  ;  and  it  carried  us  away  in  thought 
to  lively  Japanese  towns,  to  the  crowded  cities  and  junk-traversed 
waters  of  China,  to  the  scorching  plains  of  India  and  Burma,  and 
to  the  simple  Kaffir  kraals  of  South  Africa,  as  well  as  to  many 
other  scenes  in  which  "  our  first  twelve"  were  soon  located.  It 
carried  our  minds  forward  too,  to  the  great  harvest  home,  where, 
as  we  hoped  and  believed,  each  would  appear,  by  the  grace  of  God, 


The   Vanguard, 


37 


laden  with  precious  sheaves,  and  where,  if  never  before,  we  should 
meet  them  again.  Looking  at  them  as  the  vanguard  of  a  host  to 
follow,  we  rejoiced  and  hoped.  We  loved  them  almost  as  sons — ■ 
remembered  them  as  dear  young  brethren  with  whom  we  had  worked 
in  the  gospel,  joined  in  praise  and  prayer,  and  to  whom  we  were 
linked  in  bonds  of  almost  family  affection.  Our  hearts  yearned  with 
desire  for  their  peace,  prosperity,  and  success,  and  those  who  re. 
mained  behind  were  the  more  drawn  out  to  the  foreign  field,  because 
their  companions  were  already  in  it.  In  a  later  chapter  we  must 
give  particulars  of  the  subsequent  career  of  some  of  these  men,  in 
view  of  which  we  often  thank  God  and  take  courage. 


STttEET  SCENE    JN    GlilNriu 


Our  Third   Years    Work. 


ENTRANCE  TO   CLIFF    HOUSE. 


Chapter  III. 


A    COUNTRY    BRANCH. 


Our  third  year  brought  an  additional  enlargement  in  the  shape 
of  the  opening  01  a  country  branch  of  the  Institute.  Very  unex- 
pectedly to  ourselves,  but  we  doubt  not  in  the  good  providence 
of  God,  a  lady,  resident  in  Derbyshire,  who  had  come  to  the  con- 
clusion to  devote  a  small  estate  there  to  the  work  of  training 
missionaries,  was  led  to  ask  us  to  undertake  the  working  and 
management  of  it.  The  place  was  situated  in  the  prettiest  part  of 
the  Peak  of  Derbyshire,  and  in  a  remarkably  healthful  and  bracing 
climate,  and  the  brief  experience  which  we  had  by  that  time  gained 
of  East  London  work  made  us  realize  that  it  would  not  be  desirable 
to  keep  young  men  studying  and  working  there  during  the  whole 
period  of  their  training.  Great  advantages  for  practical  missionary 
training   and   for   education    are   counterbalanced  by   some   disad- 


Opening  of  Cliff  College.  39 

vantages.  We  felt  that  in  many  cases,  and  especially  where  a  long 
course  was  desirable,  health  would  be  better  preserved  and  pre- 
liminary studies  pursued  with  more  benefit,  amid  the  quiet,  healthful 
influences  of  the  country  than  amid  the  distractions  and  temptations 
of  London  life.  And  while  for  some  spheres,  such  as  India  and 
China,  training  in  town  evangelization  is  to  be  desired,  yet  for 
others,  such  as  the  interior  of  Africa,  familiarity  with  country  life  and 
practice  in  rural  evangelization  is  of  much  more  importance. 

There  were  thirty  towns  and  villages  within  easy  reach  of  Gift 
House,  the  property  alluded  to  ;  and  one  of  the  great  desires  of  the 
donor  was  that  North  Derbyshire  itself  should  receive  benefit  from 
the  labours  of  the  men  to  be  trained  there.  No  funds  were  attached 
to  this  grant,  nor  were  the  trustees  willing  to  undertake  any 
pecuniary  responsibility  in  connection  with  it.  We  hesitated  a  good 
deal  before  undertaking  this  additional  responsibility,  foreseeing  that 
great  expense  would  have  to  be  incurred  in  adapting  the  place  to 
its  purpose,  furnishing  it,  and  carrying  on  a  branch  of  the  work 
there. 

We  were  led  however  to  accept  the  offer,  and 

HULME   CLIFF   COLLEGE,    CURBAR, 

became  henceforth  a  branch  of  our  work,  scarcely  second  in  import- 
ance  to  the  London  one.  We  could  easily  and  profitably  have  laid 
out  a  thousand  pounds  in  preliminary  operations,  but  having  only 
a  tithe  of  that  sum  in  hand,  we  were  obliged  to  go  to  work  on  a 
most  economical  scale,  and  attempt  only  what  was  absolutely  need- 
ful.    We  wrote  that  year  : 

Mr.  Guinness  took  down  a  "volunteer  corps"  ot  our  students,  consisting  ol 
six  practical  carpenters,  joiners,  painters,  and  glaziers,  and  set  them  to  work. 
They  willingly  gave  up  their  studies  for  the  time,  much  as  they  valued  them,  and 
for  some  months  in  the  depth  of  winter — when  country  highlands  are  anything 
but  attractive  to  strangers— they  cheerfully  took  up  their  abode  in  the  lonely,  un- 
inhabited house,  and  addressed  themselves  to  a  heavy  task,  as  the  place,  having 
stood  empty  for  some  years,  was  a  good  deal  out  of  repair. 

They  painted  the  outside  of  the  house,  rehung  most  of  the  windows,  eased  and 
repaired  rusty  hinges  and  locks  throughout,  whitewashed  ceilings,  papered  rooms, 
and  mended  floors  that  had  been  attacked  by  dry  rot.  They  refloored  and 
repaired  the  greenhouse,  which  was  in  ruins  ;  repaired  the  roofs,  and  cleared  the 
obstructed  lead  pipes  and  gutters  ;  cleaned  out  the  numerous  stone  cisterns  about 
the  premises,  in  which  quantities  of  sediment  and  debris  had  accumulated.  They 
lowered  the  entire  floor  of  one  large  barn,  to  convert  it  into  a  dormitory  ;  made  a 
staircase  up  to  it,  and  several  windows  and  doors  in  it,  altering  and  arranging' the 
out-houses  so  as  to  adapt  them  for  lavatories,  bath-rooms,  eta 


40  Sivord  and  Trowel 

At  the  same  time  they  kept  up  the  services  and  the  Sunday  school  in  the 
chapel  on  the  premises,  and  on  Sundays  some  of  them  preached  also  in  the  villages 
around.  Their  help  in  this  line  was  warmly  and  kindly  appreciated,  and  invita- 
tions came  in  so  quickly,  that  many  had  to  he  declined.  Village  chapels  were 
glad  to  secure  the  services  of  "  a  student  "  from  London  (!).  One  day  a  worthy 
deacon  from  the  chapel  of  a  neighbouring  town,  who  had  not  yet  made  their 
acquaintance,  came  up  to  Cliff  to  invite  one  of  them  to  preach  on  the  following 
Sunday.  When  he  arrived,  they  were  engaged  in  an  exceedingly  dirty  operation 
ol demolition,  as  the  French  call  it,  and  to  preserve  themselves  from  the  showers 
of  dust,  had  literally  clothed  themselves  in  sackcloth,  having  made  a  hole  in  the 
bottom  of  a  sack  for  the  head,  and  others  for  the  arms.  Their  work  had  covered 
them  with  dust,  so  that  in  their  "sackcloth  and  ashes"  they  presented  a  strangely 
unministerial  and  unscholastic  appearance.  The  deacon,  addressing  himself  to  one 
of  them,  expressed  his  wish  to  see  one  of  the  "students,"  and  was  politely  in- 
formed that  the  wish  was  already  fulfilled.  "  You  !  !  a  student !  "  he  exclaimed, 
with  a  look  of  unfeigned  astonishment  and  incredulity,  surveying  the  dirty  object 
before  him.  Then  walking  away,  he  inquired  of  a  man  whom  he  knew,  and  who 
happened  to  be  standing  near,  were  those  fellows  really  the  "  students  from 
London."  Being  assured  that  it  was  even  so,  he  entered  into  conversation  with 
the  men  (who  having  in  the  meantime  thrown  off  their  sacks,  presented  a  slightly 
improved  appearance),  and  accepted  their  apologies  for  their  uncouth  costume. 
On  the  following  Sunday  he  and  his  fellow  worshippers  were  reminded  that  a  man 
may  labour  successfully  in  word  and  doctrine  on  the  Lord's  day,  even  after  having 
laboured  in  bricks  and  mortar  during  the  week. 

It  must  be  admitted  however  that  our  men  did  not  find  this  double  work 
particularly  easy  just  then,  for  they  were  so  anxious  to  press  on  with  their  build- 
ing operations  that  they  really  had  no  time  for  study.  Yet  they  managed  pretty 
well,  for,  as  one  of  them  said  afterwards  :  "  We  felt,  you  know,  that 

THE   CREDIT   OF  THE   INSTITUTE  WAS   AT   STAKE. 

In-  the  surrounding  villages  the  people  expected  us  to  be  great  guns,  coming 
from  London,  and  having  been  at  Moody's  meetings,  so  we  resolved  to  be  great 
guns,  if  we  could  !  Sometimes  we  sat  up  late  at  night  to  study ;  and  we  were 
always  reading  and  remembering  and  thinking  more  or  less  over  our  "  subjects  " 
while  we  were  at  our  work  ;  jotting  down  the  bright  ideas  that  struck  us,  as  we 
sawed  and  planed  and  fitted  and  painted  ;  talking  over  them  together  at  meals, 
and  praying  together  in  our  times  of  leisure ;  so  that,  by  the  time  Sunday  came, 
we  were  generally  pretty  full  of  good  things,  and  wanting  to  give  them  forth.  We 
used  to  start  bright  and  early  in  the  winter  mornings  for  our  long  walk  through 
the  snow  in  very  good  spirits,  for  the  preaching  work  seemed  all  the  more 
delightful  by  contrast.  We  walked  sometimes  ten,  fifteen,  or  even  twenty  miles 
(there  and  back),  and  often  got  home  very  late.  We  used  to  keep  up  our  courage, 
both  in  our  weekly  work  and  on  our  Sunday  walks,  by  singing  '  Hold  the  Fort,' 
1  Daniel's  Band,'  and  such  soul-stirring  strains,  and  we  felt  we  were  learning  one 
sort  of  lesson  if  not  another." 

Very  kind  was  the  welcome  they  received  from  some  of  the  Christian  villagers. 
At  Ash  ford  and  Longstone,  at  Ashover  and  Brampton,  at  Baslow,  Curbar,  Calver, 
Stoney  Middleton,  Edensor,  Grindleford  Bridge,  Froggatt,  Eyam,  Tideswell, 
FodloW)  and  elsewhere,  they  preached  in  the  Chnpels  of  the  various  dehomination*. 


Additions  at  Harlcv  House. 


41 


HEADQUARTERS   OF   THE   EAST    LONDON    INSTITUTE 
FOR    HOME   AND    FOREIGN    MISSIONS. 

In  the  course  of  the  same  year  we  found  that  it  would  be  needful 
to  add  a  wing  to  Harley  House,  in  order  to  afford  the  students  a 
more  spacious  class-room.  The  estimated  cost  was  nearly  ^1,000, 
and  we  had  nothing  in  hand  for  the  purpose ;  and  moreover,  before 
we  could  commence  the  alteration,  it  was  necessary  to  buy  the  house, 
which  at  that  time  we  were  only  renting.  Thinking  however  that 
the  prosperity  of  the  work  seemed  to  demand  this,  we  prayed  for 
help  and  guidance,  and  made  known  the  need  among  our  Christian 
friends.  God  graciously  prospered  the  effort.  The  lease  was 
purchased,  thus  relieving  us  of  the  payment  of  rent ;  and  a  noble- 
hearted  friend  who  happened  to  call  one  afternoon,  looking  over 
the  plans  and  perceiving  the  need  of  the  alteration,  sent  the  following 
day  a  brief  but  very  kind  note,  promising  ^"400  towards  the  expenses. 
We  thanked  God  and  took  courage.  Donations  of  ^100  also  came 
in  from  three  other  friends,  and  a  room  capable  of  seating  150  was 
erected,  together  with  a  number  of  others ;  one  for  a  printing  room, 
one  for  a  book  and  tract  store,  another  for  a  shoemakers'  room  and 
tailoring  department,  and  a  fourth  as  a  reading  room  and  museum. 
In  these  the  students  were  instructed  in  various  handicrafts. 


42  Ulissiou  Halls  in  London. 

SEVERAL   MISSION   HALLS   IN   EAST   LONDON, 

of  which  we  had  long  felt  the  need,  were  also  opened  this  year. 
On  one  square  mile  near  Harley  House  a  hundred  and  fifty  thousand 
people  reside,  as  many  as  live  in  all  Bristol  and  Clifton !  In  such 
crowded  neighbourhoods  scores  of  mission  halls  are  wanted. 

It  was  not  easy  to  find  suitable  places.  There  were  several  large, 
cheerless,  desolate,  dirty-looking,  old,  and  deserted  chapels ;  but  the 
very  aspect  of  these,  with  their  rows  of  old-fashioned,  high-backed 
pews,  would  have  repelled  the  classes  we  wanted  to  attract.  They 
would  have  had  to  be  converted  themselves  before  anybody  would 
have  been  likely  to  be  converted  in  them  ;  for  it  is  vain  to  expect  that 
services  conducted  in  such  dismal,  sepulchral  places  should  rival 
the  attractions  of  the  brilliant  and  beautiful  gin-palaces  by  which 
they  are  surrounded.  The  children  of  this  world,  wiser  in  their 
generation  than  the  children  of  light,  think  it  worth  their  while  to 
pull  down  the  shabby,  old,  inconvenient  public-house,  and  to  build 
on  the  same  spot  one  more  suited  to  the  tastes  of  the  age,  that  they 
may  retain  their  hold  on  the  people.  Christian  Churches,  on  the 
contrary,  abandon  altogether  their  old  chapels  in  decaying  neighbour- 
hoods for  pleasanter  and  more  modern  ones  in  better  situations, 
leaving  the  poor  to  the  attractions  of  the  gin-palace  and  the  dancing 
saloon,  instead  of  transforming  the  old  chapel  into  a  pleasant  mission 
hall,  and  putting  in  to  work  it  a  popular  missionary,  suited  to  the 
classes  dwelling  around  the  building.  It  is  a  deplorable  fact,  but  so 
it  is  ;  and  it  is  easily  explained. 

The  public-houses  are  self-supporting ;  the  worse  the  neighbour- 
hood the  better  they  pay.  The  mission  hall,  on  the  other  hand, 
must  be  sustained  from  without ;  it  can  no  more  be  self-supporting 
than  a  mission  among  the  heathen.  No  want  of  it  is  felt,  no  wish 
for  it  exists,  among  the  people.  It  must  be  aggressive  and  intrude 
itself  at  first,  and  work  its  way  among  those  who,  the  greater  their 
need  of  its  influence,  have  the  greater  objection  to  its  existence.  No 
missionary  or  minister  would  receive  much  assistance,  even  towards 
the  working  expenses  of  the  place,  much  less  towards  his  own 
support,  in  these  localities.  The  funds  must,  in  the  first  place  at  any 
rate,  come  from  outside.  The  man  who  undertakes  to  work  such 
spheres  must  either  himself  give,  or  get  from  others,  the  means  to  do 
so;  the  consequence  is  that,  few  having  zeal  or  energy  enough  to 
undertake  such  a  double  burden,  the  deserted  old  chapels  continue 


The  "Evangelist"  our  Mission  Cuttet.  43 

"  to  let."  We  did  think  of  trying  one  in  Spitalfields,  but  foresaw 
that  without  larger  funds  at  our  disposal  it  would  be  a  failure.  We 
had  to  forego  working  in  the  localities  most  of  all  requiring  help, 
and  to  content  ourselves  with  those  in  which  we  could  obtain  suitable 
places. 

In  Old  Ford  we  found  a  sign-painter's  shed,  covered  with  gay- 
coloured  devices  of  "  rum  "  and  "  brandy,"  and  with  the  huge  boards 
that  are  affixed  to  public-houses,  which  the  owner  was  willing  to  let 
on  moderate  terms.  We  transformed  it  into  a  neat,  homely  little 
hall,  into  which  neither  the  poorest  nor  the  most  respectable  need 
hesitate  to  come.  Nightly  services  were  held  there,  and  many 
wanderers  reclaimed  and  many  souls  saved.  The  neighbours  rejoiced 
in  the  existence  of  this  little  place  in  their  midst,  and  a  large  Sunday 
school  was  gathered.  We  purchased  also  an  iron  church,  and  pitched 
it  at  Stratford,  in  a  new  and  populous  district,  where  scores  of  fresh 
streets  were  getting  occupied  as  fast  as  they  were  built.  In  Bow 
itself  we  also  secured  a  small  hall  holding  about  three  hundred  ;  and 
in  all  these  places  the  students  found  spheres  ot  gospel  labour.  They 
assisted  also  many  other  missions,  and  opened  a  large  school  in  one 
of  the  school  board  buildings  in  a  low  neighbourhood  near  the  gas- 
works. We  also  started  this  year  a  little  mission  cutter,  a  boat  ot 
thirteen  tons,  for  work  on  the  Thames  and  in  various  ports  on  the 
coast.  Three  or  four  students  would  live  on  board  this  vessel  for  a 
few  weeks  at  a  time,  to  evangelize  the  neighbourhood  in  which  it 
might  be.  The  vessel  was  called  The  Evangelist,  and  was  purchased 
at  a  very  moderate  price  by  a  special  donation  from  a  Christian 
gentleman. 

A  number  of  students,  of  some  whom  we  will  speak  more  parti- 
cularly later  on,  left  us  this  year  for  Africa,  India,  and  China,  as  well 
as  several  for  Jamaica  and  the  colonies. 

It  is  scarcely  needful  to  say  that  all  who  entered  the  Institute  on 
probation  did  not  prove  suitable  to  be  permanently  received.  One 
of  the  most  important  parts  of  our  work  is  the  testing  of  volunteers 
for  missionary  service.  We  do  not  regard  money  and  trouble  as 
thrown  away  when,  after  a  probation  of  one  or  two  months,  or  even 
more,  we  are  convinced  that  a  young  man  lacks  some  essential 
qualification  for  missionary  work.  If  he  accepts  deliberate  advice 
to  abandon  the  thought  of  becoming  a  missionary,  he  and  others 
may  have  been  saved  from  serious  disappointment.  Few  things  can 
be  more  distressing  than  for  one  who  has  not  the  needful  physical 


44  Tests  and  Trials. 

mental,  and  spiritual  vigour  to  find  himself  alone  among  the  heathen, 
unable  to  cope  with  the  difficulties  and  dangers  which  surround  him. 
Nor  is  it  a  light  trial  for  a  society,  after  having  given  much  trouble 
and  much  money,  and  bestowed  sympathy  and  prayers  in  connec- 
tion with  the  sending  forth  of  an  agent,  to  have  him  turn  out  worse 
than  useless — a  burden  that  must  at  great  expense  be  brought  home 
again.  Yet  without  some  means  of  effectually  testing  what  a  man  is 
worth  it  is  impossible  to  avoid  this.  A  few  interviews,  correspon- 
dence more  or  less  full,  and  even  numerous  testimonials,  do  not 
sufficiently  show  what  a  man  really  is.  Some  in  whose  favour  we 
were  prepossessed  by  all  these  have  disappointed  our  expectations 
on  further  acquaintance ;  and  we  are  often  constrained  to  prolong  a 
probation  for  many  months  ere  we  can  decide  on  certain  cases. 

We  have  the  opportunity  of  testing  men  pretty  thoroughly  and  in 
various  ways.  We  test  their  physical  health  and  strength  by  study, 
evangelistic  work  indoors  and  out,  in  all  sorts  of  weather,  in  town 
and  in  country,  by  manual  labour  and  mechanical  employments,  etc. 
We  test  their  menial  powers  by  six  to  nine  hours  a  day  of  close  study. 
Many  flag  a  little  under  this  at  first  from  lack  of  habits  of  applica- 
tion, and  some  break  down  altogether,  and  give  up  of  their  own 
accord,  to  return  to  former  avocations.  Such  men  would  have  failed 
in  all  probability  to  acquire  Chinese  or  Hindustani.  We  test  their 
grace,  their  spirit,  the  reality  of  their  devotedness  by  giving  them 
hard  and  humble  work  to  do :  daily  domestic  service,  manual  labour 
at  various  handicrafts,  selling  books  at  the  Bible-stall,  tract  distri- 
bution, visiting  the  poor,  working  in  little  mission  halls  and  ragged 
schools,  etc.  If  a  man  objects  to,  or  slurs,  these  lowly  tasks,  as 
beneath  his  dignity  or  as  disagreeable  to  his  tastes,  we  question  at 
once  whether  he  possesses  the  grace,  good  sense,  and  self-denial 
needful  for  a  missionary.  Some  who  have  stood  the  two  previous 
tests  do  not  stand  this,  and  thus  show  its  importance.  Young  men 
of  mental  vigour,  and  of  any  ambition,  enjoy  of  course  opportuni- 
ties of  gratifying  the  natural  appetite  for  knowledge  and  self-improve- 
ment. Study  tests  their  intellectual  ability,  but  not  their  grace. 
Selfishness  can  make  a  good  student;  but  distasteful  service,  from 
which  no  benefit  to  self  can  accrue,  puts  to  the  proof  a  man's  sense 
of  duty  and  strength  of  principle. 

But  most  especially  we  test  the  spiritual  power  of  applicants  by 
setting  them  to  various  forms  of  evangelistic  labour.  If  they  show 
zeal  and  love  for  souls,  if  they  succeed  in  turning  many  to  righteous- 


A   Threefold  Training.  45 

ncss,  there  can  be  little  doubt  they  are  calculated  to  be  useful 
missionaries  at  home  or  abroad.  But  if,  even  though  gracious  and 
clever,  they  lack  evangelistic  gift  and  spirit,  nothing  can  compensate 
for  the  deficiency,  and  they  have  evidently  mistaken  their  vocation 
in  aspiring  to  the  work  of  a  missionary.  Temper,  amiability,  power 
to  work  with  others,  perseverance,  and  many  other  points  of  char- 
acter get  developed  in  daily  contact  with  a  number  of  brethren  ; 
where  real  worth  exists  it  is  sure  to  be  appreciated,  and  where  the 
reverse  is  the  case  it  is  discovered  before  long.  Yet  we  feel  it  right 
to  be  very  patient,  and  sometimes  wait  for  months  before  venturing 
to  give  a  man  decided  advice  as  to  his  path  in  life. 

The  training  we  endeavoured  to  give  each  man  was  like  the  test- 
ing— physical,  mental,  and  spiritual. 

Practical  training  in  various  useful  arts,  including  medicine, 
agriculture,  gardening,  carpentering,  printing,  navigation,  swimming, 
shoemaking,  tailoring,  etc.,  and  in  habits  of  activity,  order,  and  in- 
dustry by  dispensing  in  measure  with  servants,  and  requiring  some 
amount  of  daily  attention  to  domestic  affairs. 

Intellectual  training,  by  cultivating  habits  of  continuous 
attention  and  application,  and  by  furnishing  the  mind  with  needed 
information.  In  addition  to  biblical  and  theological  instruction, 
the  studies  pursued  embrace  the  routine  of  an  English  education, 
when  needful,  together  with  Greek,  medical  and  scientific  knowledge, 
and  when  necessary  with  a  view  to  future  work— modern  languages. 

Evangelistic  training,  by  exercising  each  in  school  work,  street 
preaching,  house-to  house  visitation,  personal  dealing  with  inquirers, 
and  public  preaching  in  the  open  air  and  in  buildings. 

To  preach  to  orderly  Christian  congregations  from  a  recognised 
and  respected  pulpit  would  not  be  much  preparation  for  labour 
among  the  heathen.  Such  a  congregation  is  of  course  prepared  to 
listen  respectfully  and  sympathetically  to  the  preacher,  and  there  is 
usually  no  trouble  in  gathering  or  in  keeping  the  people.  There  is 
everything  in  the  surroundings  to  help  religious  impression  ;  sacred 
music  and  sacred  song  alternate  with  religious  stillness  and  united 
prayer,  while  intelligent  attention  is  bestowed  on  the  preaching, 
which  the  congregation  have  indeed  come  on  purpose  to  hear. 

There  is  nothing  of  this  sort  in  heathendom  !  A  man  who  is 
only  up  to  work  of  this  proper,  conventional  type  may  as  well  stay 
at  home !  The  missionary  has  to  press  his  message  on  men  who 
have  no  notion  of  its  importance,  no  disposition  even  to  hear  what 


46  Home  Heathen. 

it  is  about,  absurdly  false  ideas  of  the  preacher's  motives  for  coming 
amongst  them,  no  substratum  of  religious  knowledge  on  which  to 
work,  no  enlightened  conscience  to  respond  to  appeals  as  to  sin  and 
righteousness  and  judgment  to  come,  a  superstitious  credulity  which 
is  very  far  removed  from  real  faith,  no  habits  of  order  or  attention, 
of  reverence  or  decorum,  no  sympathy  with  the  preacher's  modes  of 
thought,  and  imperfect  comprehension  of  his  language.  He  must 
not  expect  to  be  either  sought,  appreciated,  or  rewarded  for  his 
service,  nor  to  find  any  gratification  in  it  save  that  of  serving  Christ 
and  saving  men.  East  London  affords  opportunity  for  such  pre- 
paration. 

THE    NOISY   MILE    END    WASTE, 

with  its  teeming  thousands,  gives  room  for  gathering  goodly  num- 
bers of  home  heathen  to  open-air  addresses ;  there  the  people 
listen  willingly  enough  to  any  one  who  speaks  sufficiently  loud  to  be 
heard.  But  the  man  who  fails  to  interest  his  hearers  will  soon  find 
it  out,  for  they  will  quickly  drift  away  and  leave  him  no  audience. 
He  must  drop  all  conventionalities,  and  all  pulpit  English,  if  he  is  to 
reach  their  hearts  and  minds ;  he  must  be  warm  and  lively,  brief 
and  to  the  point,  sensible  and  strong.  He  must  study  to  be  ever- 
more adapting  himself  to  the  ever  varying  congregation,  making 
himself  a  boy  to  the  boys,  an  old  man  to  the  old  men,  a  friend  even 
to  the  besotted  drunkard  and  slouching  criminal.  Then  again  the 
London  lodging  houses  for  tramps  and  casuals,  and  homeless  waifs 
and  strays,  are  an  admirable  training  school  for  acquiring  practice 
in  dealing  with  the  degraded  and  sunken  among  men.  The  Sailors' 
Rest  and  the  Asiatic  Home  bring  our  students  in  contact  with 
foreigners  from  many  lands  ;  the  hospital  introduces  them  to  the 
sick  and  dying ;  and  the  parks  on  a  summer  afternoon  to  the  free- 
thinkers and  sceptics,  the  radicals  and  socialists,  as  well  as  to  the 
thoughtless,  careless  pleasure-seekers  who  forget  God. 

The  Asiatic  Home  is  a  large  and  substantial  building  standing  in 
the  West  India  Dock  Road,  Limehouse,  within  a  couple  of  miles 
of  the  Institute,  erected  for  the  reception  of  oriental  waifs  of  all 
sorts  in  London.  It  provides  for  them  decent  board  and  lodging, 
of  as  congenial  a  kind  as  is  practicable,  as  well  as  protection  from 
the  villanies  of  many  kinds  to  which  they  are  exposed  in  London. 
Aid  is  also  given  in  finding  them  employment,  or  passages  to  their 
homes.    They  are  expected  to  pay  a  very  moderate  sum  for  all  these 


Soul  Seeking  and  Study.  47 

advantages,  and  they  have  the  benefit  of  the  labours  of  a  devoted 
missionary,  who  speaks  many  of  their  languages. 

This  Home  shelters  some  five  or  six  hundred  persons  each  year : 
lascars,  firemen,  cooks,  stewards,  servants,  Indian  conjurors,  ayahs, 
coolies,  etc.,  etc.  ;  natives  of  India,  Burma,  Ceylon,  China,  and 
other  parts  ;  so  that  the  company  is  generally  a  strange  compound 
of  Malays,  Chinese,  Africans,  Arabs,  Japanese,  and  South  Sea 
Islanders. 

Amongst  these  our  oriental  students  find  a  sphere  in  which  they 
can  labour  to  advantage,  and  very  interesting  are  the  incidents  which 
sometimes  occur  in  their  gospel  work  there.  Proud  and  irritable 
Mohammedans  are  often  roused  to  violent  opposition,  and  Jews  and 
idolaters  will  join  in  the  controversy. 

TUTOR'S  REPORT  AS  TO  PROGRESS  IN  STUDY. 

The  Rev.  Anson  J.  Towell,  our  headmaster,  wrote  as  to  that  third 
year : 

During  the  year  now  closing  the  men  have  made  no  small  progress  in  the 
various  studies  of  the  house,  and  their  mental  and  moral  and  social  development 
has  been  of  a  satisfactory  kind  and  measure. 

The  Bible-classes  have  trained  them  in  the  habit  of  seeking,  at  the  very 
fountain  of  all  truth,  the  principles  of  Christian  life  and  work.  They  have  used 
all  helps  to  ascertain  the  precise  meaning  of  words  and  phrases,  and  when  they 
have  once  got  to  know  the  mind  of  the  Spirit,  they  have  held  fast  the  precious 
doctrine  as  a  golden  treasure. 

The  Theological  Classes  have  helped  to  give  system  and  proportion  to  the  truths 
acquired  in  the  Bible  studies.  But  the  text-book  has  always  been  used  in  the 
Bencan  spirit,  and  the  result  has  been  that  the  systematised  truth  acquired  is  in  no 
aspect  extra-biblical. 

The  historical  studies  too  have  been  conducted  in  the  fear  of  tlie  Lord.  The 
good  old  book  has  been  employed  as  a  light  to  show  the  operation  of  the  Master 
behind  and  above  what  the  mere  historian  ascribes  to  human  principles  as  the 
ultimate  account.  Thus  they  have  been  taught  to  connect  the  past  and  the 
present  and  the  time  yet  to  come  as  one  whole,  in  which  the  same  unchanging 
principles  are  operative. 

In  the  classes  for  Greek  and  Hebrew  the  men  have  made  some  fair  progress. 
They  have  learnt  to  regard  these  studies  as  parts  of  the  thorough  training  that  a 
man  who  is  called  to  devote  his  life  to  the  ministry  of  the  word  should  by  no 
means  neglect. 

In  all  the  classes  the  fact  that  the  life-work  of  the  man  is  missionary  has  been 
steadily  kept  in  mind.  It  has  never  been  lost  sight  of  that  they  will  have  to 
present  truths,  in  a  majority  of  instances,  to  minds  and  hearts  very  dark  and 
sinful,  and  the  modes  of  instruction  have  therefore  been  cast  in  a  mould  calculated 
to  be  specially  helpful. 

The  general  discipline  and  training  of  the  men,  the  house-work  and  the  practice 


48  Arrivals  and  Departures. 

of  useful  arts,  has  proved  highly  beneficial  in  many  ways.  There  is,  first  of  all, 
the  acquisition  of  many  habits  that  will  be  of  great  advantage  to  them  in  foreign 
fields,  where  to  know  how  to  do  a  piece  of  work  is  of  essential  importance.  And 
then  there  is  the  no  less  valuable  development  of  selMielp  and  brotherliness, 
endowments  so  needful  to  the  true  missionary.  Nor  must  it  be  forgotten  that  the 
physical  exercise  demanded  by  housework,  gardening,  shoemaking,  at  the  forge, 
in  swimming,  etc.,  tends  to  produce  a  healthful  tone  of  the  frame  that  renders  the 
hours  devoted  to  study  of  more  avail  than  they  could  otherwise  be. 

It  lias  been  pleasing  to  notice  that  in  the  midst  of  these  varied  engagements 
in  the  house  there  has  been  preserved  and  strengthened,  as  paramount  to  all,  the 
spirit  of  the  evaivjrfist ;  the  brethren  have  been  instant  in  season  and  out  of  season, 
proclaiming  the  good  news. 


The  following  year,  1876,  we  received  43  new  students:  English, 
Scotch,  Irish,  Welsh,  Syrian,  Russian,  Canadian,  American,  Spanish, 
French,  Swedish,  one  from  Poland,  and  one  from  Egypt.  Four  of 
these  were  converted  Jews,  two  converted  Druses,  two  or  three 
converts  from  Popery,  and  the  rest  belonged  to  the  different  evan- 
gelical sections  of  the  Protestant  Church.  Twenty-two  missionaries 
went  out  in  the  course  of  that  year  :  one  to  Damascus,  two  to  North 
Spain,  three  to  Kaffraria,  South  Africa,  one  to  Fake  Tanganyika, 
Central  Africa,  some  to  Jamaica,  and  others  to  China. 

The  evangelistic  work  also  made  progress,  and  another  mission 
hall  to  the  previous  ones  was  added,  in  Devas  Street,  Bromley. 
This  was  in  a  district  of  which  the  policeman  warned  our  students 
that  it  was  one  of  the  worst  on  his  beat,  and  that  the  children  gave 
him  "more  trouble  than  any  youngsters  in  Fondon."  This  fact  was 
accounted  for  partly  by  the  people  being  mostly  Roman  Catholics. 
A  hundred  wretched,  ragged,  wicked  little  children  were  gathered  by 
the  students  into  the  school,  and  our  hearts  were  soon  gladdened  by 
seeing  a  greatly  increased  degree  of  cleanliness  and  tidiness,  and 
eager  little  faces  looking  up  into  our  own,  and  drinking  in  the  story 
of  the  Saviour's  love.  Many  of  them  were  apparently  converted, 
and  small-pox  breaking  out  in  the  district,  two  or  three  were  taken 
to  the  better  world,  rejoicing  in  Jesus. 

Gospel  work  in  the  villages  of  Derbyshire  was  found  also  to  be 
greatly  needed.  The  difficulties  to  be  met  and  overcome  there  are 
unlike  those  encountered  in  Fondon.  Stolid,  self-satisfied  indiffe- 
rence is  more  prevalent  than  open  vice,  and  ignorance  puts  Fondon 
scepticism  out  of  the  question.  But  in  some  cases  we  met  with 
deplorable  darkness. 


[49 


HADDON   HALL,    NEAR   BAKEWELL,    DERBYSHIRE. 


Calling  one  day  at  a  very  respectable  stone  house  on  the  roadside,  at  the  top  ot 
a  hill,  on  our  way  home  from  Castleton,  to  ask  for  shelter  from  an  approaching 
storm,  we  were  kindly  received  by  a  well-dressed,  nice-looking  young  wife,  with 
whom  we  got  into  conversation.  It  was  a  lonely  spot,  a  mile  or  more  from  the 
nearest  town.  Did  she  go  to  church  ?  No  !  Nor  her  husband  ?  No  !  Did  she 
read  the  Bible  at  home  ?  No  ;  she  was  no  scholar,  she  could  not  read.  Had  she 
not  been  to  school  ?  Yes  ;  but  they  did  not  learn  anything  there.  Did  she  know 
anything  about  David  ?  No!  Or  Daniel  ?  No!  Had  she  ever  heard  of  Joseph 
or  Abraham?  No  !  Did  she  know  who  Jesus  Christ  was?  No  !  What  !  had 
she  never  heard  of  Him  ?  No,  she  thought  not ;  she  did  not  remember  the 
name.  What !  not  about  His  being  born  at  Bethlehem,  and' the  angels,  and  the 
shepherds  ?  No  ;  she  never  heard  anything  at  all  about  it.  Was  He  a  man,  did 
she  think  ?  She  smiled  ;  of  course  He  was,  at  least  she  supposed  so ;  what  else 
could  He  be?  Did  she  know  about  God?  Yes;  God  made  the  world.  Had 
she  ever  heard  that  God  was  manifest  in  the  flesh  ?  This  was  very  simply  ex- 
plained till  she  understood  what  we  meant,  and  then  the  question  was  repeated. 
No  ;  she  had  never  heard  of  such  a  thing  ;  but  she  was  a  very  bad  scholar. 
Perhaps  they  might  have  said  that  at  church  or  at  school  ;  but  she  never  listened 
or  understood  what  they  did  say — nobody  did.  She  thought  theirs  must  be  a  bad 
school,  for  though  she  went  regularly  when  she  was  a  child  she  never  got  any  the 
wiser.  Had  she  ever  heard  how  Jesus  Christ  died  ?  No  !  how  was  it  ?  The 
'-•tory  was  told  ;  she  listened  to  it  as  to  soriiething  absolutely  new.     Only  Once; 


50  On  the   IV  ate;. 

when  the  word  "  Holy  Ghost "  was  used,  her  face  brightened,  and  she  said :  "Ah  ! 
I  mind  hearing  that  word  about  a  ghost  in  church,  but  I  did  not  know  what  it 
meant." 

It  was  affecting  to  find  such  ignorance  in  one  or  the  superior  class  of  the 
"cottage  homes  of  England,"  in  a  well-to-do,  thriving  young  wife,  who  sat 
knitting  fast,  with  skilful  fingers,  a  good  warm  stocking  for  her  husband  while 
she  talked  with  us.  The  husband,  a  mill-stone  maker,  was  away  at  his  work. 
Could  he  read?  Oh,  yes!  he  was  a  fine  scholar.  Had  they  a  Bible?  Yes,  a 
big  one.  Did  her  husband  ever  read  to  her?  Sometimes  of  a  Sunday.  Did  the 
minister  ever  call  to  see  her  ?  Oh,  no  ;  he  never  called  anywhere,  as  far  as  she 
knew.  Would  she  like  to  learn  more,  and  to  be  able  to  read  ?  Oh,  yes  !  she 
would  be  very  glad,  but  she  did  not  know  how  she  could. 

In  lonely  hamlets  and  little  villages  among  the  hills  and  dales  01 
Derbyshire  the  Cliff  students  are  preaching  the  gospel  from  year  to 
year.  They  have  a  night-school  for  men  and  lads  during  the  winter, 
and  hold  temperance  as  well  as  religious  meetings. 


Evangelizing  among  Sailors. 

The  cutter  Evangelist  continued  her  useful  work  during  this  year. 
A  Christian  worker,  who  spent  a  few  weeks  on  board,  writes  : 

Sunday  last  we  began  early  with  a  service  among  a  crew  of  English-speaking 
foreigners  ;  then  we  visited  four  very  large  steamers  and  held  services  fore  and  aft : 
in  one  nearly  all  the  crew  were  Irish  Roman  Catholics,  and  at  first  I  thought  there 
would  be  no  chance  of  our  succeeding,  but  we  had  a  most  encouraging  service, 
which  ended  with  cordial  expressions  of  kindness  on  their  part,  and  a  welcome,  if 
not  an  eager,  reception  of  tracts  and  Testaments  by  all  the  hands. 

The  next  steamer,  "No  service  ever  aboard  here,  sir  !  "  "So  kind  of  you  to 
come."     "  How  soon  will  you  come  again?"  and  so  on. 

Then  it  began  to  blow  and  rain  j  wc  ran  to  a  snug  berth,  just  in  time  to 
escape  a  heavy  "  sou-sou  wester." 

August  $oth.  Yesterday  I  visited  two  large  German  vessels,  and  spoke  and 
read  and  sang  German  hymns  to  the  men  ;  also  a  French  barque  from  Havre,  on 
which  the  men,  after  conversation,  freely  received  "  portions  "  of  Scripture.  On 
some  of  the  English  vessels  too  we  had  good  meetings.  This  evening  we  sailed 
over  to  Cansand  and  Ringsand,  in  Cornwall,  and  I  preached  at  both  places,  fine 
openings,  but  wanted  more  tracts  to  give  away  afterwards.  If  I  were  to  stop  here 
all  the  year  round,  there  would  be  as  much  work  as  I  could  do,  and  in  winter  time 
far  more,  for  double  as  many  ships  come  into  harbour  then. 

Sept.  2nd.  Yesterday  we  visited  sixteen  vessels,  the  last  about  eight  in  the 
evening,  far  out  at  sea.  I  had  a  long  conversation  with  the  mate,  a  sceptic,  in 
German.  Thank  God  !  he  seemed  much  impressed,  and  quite  gave  in  at  length. 
Meantime  Mr.  Walker  had  a  talk  to  the  crew,  who,  though  foreigners,  under- 
stood a  little  Englishi     Th£  cook's  wife,  a  Spaniard}  converted  many  years  ago 


5i 


Bay 


CUTTER    "  EVANGELIST.' 


rom  Popery,  offered  him  a  half  dollar  piece  as  a  memento  of  the  visit !  We  are 
to  have  a  service  on  board,  by  invitation,  on  Sunday,  as  also  on  another  ship 
near.  Coming  home,  boarded  another  ship  sailing  out  ;  and  after  returning  to 
the  cutter  were  sailing  home,  singing  on  deck,  "Let  the  lower  lights  be  burning," 
when  one  of  the  ships  in  the  fleet  answered  with  "  Depth  of  mercy,"  sung  by  some 
fine  sailor  voices.  We  joined  in  this  song,  and  followed  with  "Whosoever 
heareth,  shout,  shout  the  sound  "  ;  and  then  left  the  cutter  in  the  little  boat  in 
quest  of  the  vessel.  It  was  dark,  so  we  sang  "Hold  the  Fort,  '  and  they  re- 
sponded, so  guiding  us  to  a  right  course.  At  last  we  found  her,  a  large,  three- 
masted  schooner.     They  hove  us  a  line,  and  as  I  ascended  the  side  the  mate 


52  Got  no  Money" 

reached  me  a  hard  sailor  hand,  saying,  "  You  are  welcome  on  board  the  St. 
Deverick."  All  soon  found  their  way  down  to  the  cabin,  where  I  spoke  on 
Psalm  xxxii.  ;  it  was  a  happy  season  !  The  Lord  had  been  working  on  board  in 
the  conversion  of  the  mate,  carpenter,  and  several  of  the  crew.  The  captain  was 
not  on  board,  but  we  learned  he  was  a  fine  fellow,  with  one  great  desire,  the 
salvation  of  souls,  and  the  Lord  gives  them  to  him.  We  stayed  till  ten  o'clock, 
and  promised  to  visit  them  next  morning  early,  that  we  might  see  the  captain 
before  they  put  to  sea  ! 

Sept.  26//1.  Last  night  we  went  on  board  the  training  ship  Ganges  ;  had 
tea,  were  shown  over  the  ship,  and  invited  the  men  to  join  us  in  a  service  in  the 
schoolroom  at  eight.  About  400  men  and  boys  were  present,  the  captain,  to 
whom  we  were  introduced,  said,  "  What  I  say  of  preachers  is  this,  they  do  no 
harm,  and  they  may  do  some  good  !  "  Evidently  he  had  no  high  opinion  of  our 
mission. 

Oct.  gt/t.  Do  send  us  a  supply  of  French  and  Italian  gospels  and  tracts  ! 
To-day  we  visited  twelve  Italian  and  Austrian  vessels,  eight  or  ten  men  on  each, 
and  most  of  them  desired  a  gospel.  I  have  only  fifty  left.  The  great  demand 
is  for  St.  John's  Gospel  ;  the  more  you  send  of  it  the  better.  In  it  is  the  gospel 
declared  by  the  Lord  Himself.  There  is  often  a  demand  also  for  the  Biblia  ; 
but  when  I  say  the  Bibles  are  only  for  sale,  they  shrug  their  shoulders  and  reply, 
"  Got  no  money." 

Oct,  I2t/i.  We  have  had  some  rough  weather  lately.  We  are  going  to  write 
and  ask  one  of  the  brethren  to  pack  up  and  send  us  our  classd)ooks,  that  we 
may  continue  our  studies  when  work  is  out  of  the  question. 

Oct.  \6tI1.  We  have  visited  fifty-five  vessels  during  the  past  week,  chiefly 
foreigners,  Swedish,  Danish,  Norwegian,  but  we  had  nothing  to  give  them ! 
Could  not  this  be  remedied?  Are  there  not  Christians  who,  if  they  knew  of  this 
opening,  would  give  of  their  substance  to  put  God's  word  into  the  hands  of  these 
poor  sailors  ?  One  vessel  we  visited  was  from  the  west  coast  of  Africa.  The 
men  told  us  that  the  captain,  a  coloured  man,  had  treated  them  like  brutes  on 
the  voyage,  and  that  they  would  be  glad  to  get  away  from  him.  They  seemed 
thankful  for  the  words  we  spoke,  and  a  few  tracts.  Then  we  went  alongside  a 
vessel  from  Bonny,  and  a  man  called  out  as  we  approached,  "  Is  it  religious,  sir?" 
"Yes  !  "  "  That's  good  !  Come  along  !  "  They  had  had  fever  on  board,  had  lost 
one  of  their  shipmates  at  Bonny,  and  had  had  to  throw  overboard  the  body  of 
another  at  the  Scilly  Islands.  Two  had  just  been  sent  ashore  to  the  hospital ; 
the  rest,  thankful  to  be  spared,  were  very  willing  to  listen  to  us. 

In  a  day  or  two  we  shall  again  be  wanting  Norwegian,  Swedish,  Greek, 
Italian,  and  French  tracts  and  gospels.  It  must  be  a  trouble  to  you  our  writing 
so  often  for  supplies,  but  what  are  we  to  do  ?  The  vessels  are  here,  the  souls  of 
the  men  arc  precious,  we  are  here  to  seek  them  ;  surely  if  the  matter  is  laid 
before  the  Lord  in  united  prayer,  and  then  made  known  to  Christians,  we  shall  be 
kept  supplied. 


Bulgarian  Atrocities.       .  53 

It  was  in  the  course  of  this  year  that  there  occurred 

THE  TERRIBLE   BULGARIAN  ATROCITIES, 

which  inflicted  such  bitter  suffering  on  multitudes  of  unhappy 
Christian  towns  and  villages  around  Nish  and  Pirot.  One  of  our 
students  left  England  in  company  with  a  friend,  who  was  devoting 
himself  to  the  relief  of  the  intolerable  distress  that  prevailed.  They 
visited  twenty  villages  in  one  district,  in  which  there  had  been  800 
houses  and  6,000  inhabitants.  They  found  but  285  houses  remain- 
ing and  a  population  of  1,100.  The  survivors  from  the  massacre 
had  fled  to  Servia.     Our  student,  Mr.  Hessenauer,  wrote  : 

Some  totally  burnt  ;  men,  cattle,  all  gone.  In  others,  half  the  houses 
destroyed,  and  numbers  of  people  packed  into  those  that  are  left.  Others  again, 
though  not  much  burnt,  are  abandoned  altogether  by  their  inhabitants.  Those 
who  remain  are  compelled  by  the  Government  to  forced  labour  :  building  police 
stations,  carrying  provisions  to  the  army,  ammunition,  luggage,  etc.  Many  leave 
their  homes  on  such  service  with  wagons,  oxen,  etc.,  and  never  return  again. 

The  Government  have  gathered  their  crops,  and  is  now  allowing  a  scanty  por- 
tion per  head  to  the  most  needy.  Whole  plains  and  plots  of  ground  belonging  to 
the  villages  are  covered  with  splendid  maize,  now  rotting  under  the  snow,  because 
there  are  no  hands  to  reap  it,  or  if  hands  are  there,  they  are  deprived  of  the 
necessary  tools  and  vehicles.  Beautiful  piled  stacks  of  wheat  surround  some  of 
the  villages,  but  their  owners  cannot  touch  them,  the  Government  having  seized 
them.  They  have  to  pay  their  taxes  as  usual,  to  a  horde  of  zaptichs,  whom  they 
have  also  to  feed,  and  who,  if  they  are  not  able,  throw  them  on  the  ground  and 
beat  them  without  mercy.  Sometimes  on  the  roads  we  have  met  companies  of 
refugees,  returning  with  any  little  property  they  may  have  snatched  up  and  saved 
in  their  flight,  to  find,  instead  of  their  loved  homes,  only  a  heap  of  ashes  to 
welcome  them  after  their  weary  wanderings.  The  few  cattle  some  possess  are 
growing  into  skeletons,  while  the  hay  is  still  standing  in  cocks  in  the  fields, 
deluged  and  destroyed  by  the  rain.  The  inhabitants  of  these  villages  have 
evidently  been  peaceable,  industrious,  and  even  opulent.  They  do  not  like  to  tell 
us  much  about  personal  abuse  and  outrage.     .     .     . 

The  villagers  were  hospitable  ;  they  had  sixty- four  houses,  now  they  have 
three.  For  some  days  they  and  their  children  lived  on  leaves  in  the  woods.  They 
had  550  head  of  cattle,  6,700  sheep  ;  now  they  have  altogether  only  130  animals. 
Robbed  of  everything,  they  are  forced  to  work  for  the  Government,  and  this  is 
about  the  condition  of  all  the  villages.  Some  of  them  are  completely  burned, 
and  the  poor  people  coming  back  from  Servia  live  in  the  woods.  On  the  18th  we 
started  again  to  see  four  other  villages  in  another  direction.  Three  of  these  were 
utterly  destroyed,  and  the  people  destitute  of  any  utensils  or  tools.  The  blankets 
Mr.  Mackenzie  bought  in  England  have  arrived,  so  I  am  able  to  help  them ;  also 
two  bales  of  old  clothes  reached  me.  I  gave  most  of  these  away  in  a  village 
called  Rudeene,  to  people  who  were  what  we  should  call  naked.  They  came  on 
Sunday  (for  they  could  not  get  permission  before),  and  filled  our  courtyard.  It 
was  so  deplorable  a  sight,  I  could  not  repress  my  tears.  I  had  to  fit  each  person 
according  to  size,  etc.  The  whole  day  was  taken  up  with  the  work,  and  yet  I 
think  I  never  spent  a  happier  Sunday. 

D 


54  Our  Fiftli   Year. 

The  report  for  our  fifth  year,  1877,  was  entitled 

"OTHER   SEVENTY   ALSO," 

as,  by  that  time,  no  less  than  seventy  missionaries,  after  a  longer  or 
shorter  period  of  training,  had  gone  out  from  the  Institute  into 
mission  work ;  more  than  one  every  month  on  an  average.  We 
wrote  in  that  report : 

We  offer  no  apology  for  the  existence  of  our  Institute  as  an 
additional  agency  for  the  multiplication  of  earnest  missionaries.  We 
make  no  pretence  to  rival  or  equal  more  important  organizations, 
but  only  claim  to  supplement  them. 

It  was  after  He  had  called,  commissioned,  and  sent  out  His 
twelve  apostles  that  "  the  Lord  appointed  other  seventy  also, 
and  sent  them  two  and  two  before  His  face  into  every  city  and 
place,  whither  He  Himself  would  come." 

There  was  room  and  need  for  "  the  seventy,"  as  well  as  for  "  the 
twelve."  Much  practical  wisdom  in  missionary  matters  may  be 
gained  from  a  consideration  on  the  action  of  Christ  in  the  choice, 
training,  appointment,  and  commission  of  His  ambassadors. 

The   First   Missionaries. 

1.  What  was  their  worldly  position  ?  Poor  and  unin- 
fluential.  Some  were  fishermen,  and  most  were  men  of  that  class, 
ignorant  and  unlearned.  "  Not  many  wise,  not  many  mighty,  not 
many  noble  "  were  called. 

2.  What  was  their  spiritual  character?  They  were  born 
of  God.  Believers.  Lovers  and  followers  of  the  Lamb.  Disciples 
indeed. 

3.  What  special  education  had  they  received?  They  had 
heard  and  learned  of  the  Father.  They  had  been  with  Jesus.  They 
had  received  from  Him  the  words  of  God.  They  knew  the  mysteries 
of  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

4.  Who  sent  them  forth  ?  Their  Master,  the  Son  of  God. 
As  the  Father  had  sent  Him,  He  sent  them,  and  He  Himself  was 
received  or  rejected  in  their  persons. 

5.  What  was  their  work?  Preaching  the  gospel,  and  healing 
the  bodies  and  souls  of  men.  Testifying  to  the  truth.  Confessing 
Christ.     Speaking  by  the  Spirit  of  their  Father. 

6.  What  was  their  sphere  of  labour  ?     The  country  at  large 


"He  sent  Them  forth."  55 

Every  city  and  place  whither  Christ  Himself  would  come.     They 
did  not  settle  down,  but  were  itinerant. 

7.  How  did  they  travel  ?  As  their  Master — on  foot.  With- 
out luggage,  and  carrying  no  clothes  but  those  they  wore.  Not 
singly  or  alone,  but  "  two  and  two." 

8.  How  were  they  supported  ?  Without  gold,  silver,  or  brass. 
By  the  hospitality  of  those  among  whom  they  laboured.  By  inquir- 
ing for  the  worthy,  and  making  their  abode  with  them. 

9.  How  were  they  protected  ?  They  were  sent  forth  as  sheep 
and  lambs  in  the  midst  of  wolves.  They  were  to  be  wise  as  ser- 
pents, harmless  as  doves. 

10.  How  were  they  treated  ?  Like  their  Master.  They  were 
received  by  some,  rejected  by  others.  He  foretold  they  should  be 
delivered  up  to  councils,  scourged  in  synagogues,  brought  before 
governors  and  kings,  and  persecuted  from  city  to  city. 

n.  How  were  they  sustained  in  spirit?  By  the  conviction 
that  it  was  enough  for  the  disciple  to  be  as  his  Master.  By  the 
faith  and  fear  of  Him  who  is  able  to  preserve  and  destroy  both  soul 
and  body.  By  the  supreme  affection  which  they  bore  to  Christ. 
By  the  hope  of  His  coming  glory.  By  the  assurance  that  loss  of 
life  in  His  service  is  everlasting  gain. 

12.  What  did  they  accomplish?  The  work  that  Jesus  gave 
them  to  do.  They  instructed  and  healed  great  numbers  of  persons. 
They  witnessed  to  the  character  and  works  of  Christ,  and  conveyed 
to  others  the  truths  He  taught.  They  gathered  in  the  first-fruits  of 
the  harvest,  of  the  multitude  which  no  man  can  number. 

The    Master   called,  trained,  endowed,  and   sent   them   forth; 
He  supported,  protected,  and   guided    them ;    He   crowned   their 
labours  with  success  as  seemed  good  in  His  sight ;  and  He  is  the 
same  yesterday,  to-day,  and  for  ever. 

We  have  no  fear  therefore  in  encouraging  young  Christians  in  these 
last  days  to  hear  His  call  and  heed  His  command ;  no  fear  in 
offering  them  the  opportunity  of  studying  His  word,  and  exercising 
themselves  in  His  service  by  way  of  training ;  and  no  fear  in  aiding 
them  to  go  into  the  "  regions  beyond  "  in  obedience  to  His  great 
command. 


CHINESE   PEEP   SHOW   (MANURE   COLLE 


ITITH  LARGE  PITCHFORK  IN   FRONT). 


5« 
VARIED  CHARACTER  OF  APPLICATIONS. 

At  this  time  we  had  forty  or  fifty  students  in  London  and  thirty  in 
Derbyshire.     We  wrote  in  the  Annual  Report  for  1877  : 

Our  four  houses  hxve  all  been  full  during  the  last  twelve  months,  there  having 
been  from  forty  to  fifty  students  in  London,  and  nearly  thirty  at  Hulme  Cliff 
College,  our  Derbyshire  branch.  The  number  varies  continually,  as  some  go  out 
and  some  come  in.  It  is  rarely  that  a  week  passes  without  bringing  us  fresh 
applicants.  One  day  a  minister  will  write  about  some  earnest  convert  to  whom 
he  has  been  made  a  blessing ;  and  then  some  Christian  lady  commends  to  us  some 
young  man,  who  has  grown  from  boyhood  to  manhood  under  her  own  observation, 
it  may  be  in  his  native  village,  increasing  in  wisdom  and  stature  and  in  favour 
with  God  and  man,  and  who  is  burning  at  last  with  a  desire  to  devote  his  life  to 
Christ's  service. 

Then  perhaps  there  will  come  a  raw,  conceited  effusion  from  some  young 
man,  who  thinks  so  much  of  himself  that  we  think  nothing  of  him,  and  promptly 
reply  in  the  negative  to  his  application  ;  and  then  an  interesting  letter  will  reach 
us  from  some  sincere  and  experienced,  though  perhaps  ignorant,  Christian  man, 
who  has  felt  constrained  by  some  address  he  has  heard,  or  some  account  he  had 
read,  about  the  heathen  to  leave  all  and  follow  Christ.  Then  again  it  will  be 
a  missionary  labouring  in  foreign  lands,  who  writes  to  introduce  to  us  some 
promising  native,  whom  he  longs  to  see  trained  for  an  evangelist ;  or  some  father 
dwelling  abroad  seeks  a  training  for  his  converted  son  that  may  fit  him  for  gospel 
labour  in  the  land  of  his  adoption. 

Or  perhaps  the  application  is  personal  instead  of  by  post.  One  day  we 
receive  a  visit  from  a  genuine  Egyptian,  with  his  strange,  antique  physiognomy, 
as  if  he  had  stepped  down  from  Cleopatra's  Needle,  and  with  his  experimental 
knowledge  of  Mohammedanism.  By  some  blessed  providence  he  has  learned  a 
purer  faith,  and  he  says  to  us  earnestly,  in  Italian,  or  Arabic,  or  broken  English  : 
"  Oh,  teach  me  more  !  Let  me  learn  the  gospel  well,  and  then  go  and  preach  it 
to  my  dark,  dark  countrymen.  I  will  work  hard,  I  will  scrub,  I  will  do  anything 
you  wish,  only  teach  me." 

Another  day  it  will  be  a  Portuguese-speaking  Brazilian,  who  is  introduced  to 
us,  as  grieving  that  his  secular  duties  preclude  his  preparing  himself  by  the  study 
of  Scripture  for~the  evangelistic  service  he  longs  to  render  in  his  own  benighted 
land  ;  or  it  may  be  a  fine  tall  Gael  from  the  Highlands,  who  comes  to  Harley 
House  wanting  to  increase  his  ability  for  the  work  he  is  already  doing  in  the 
Master's  name. 

Anon  it  will  be  a  Kurd  from  the  mountains  of  Armenia,  whose  sincere, 
expressive  countenance  tells  more  than  his  tongue,  which  lacks  English  enough 
to  express  the-feelings  that  have  driven  him  in  weary  but  venturesome  pilgrimage 
thousands  of  miles  from  his  home,  to  learn  the  way  of  God  more  perfectly,  that  he 
may  teach  it  to  others  ;  and  then  it  will  be  a  pair  of  bright  young  American 
brothers,  who  have  sacrificed  secular  advantages  to  devote  themselves  for  a  few 
years  of  study,  that  they  may  the  more  efficiently  "  do  the  work  of  evangelists  "  on 
the  other  side  of  the  Atlantic.  Another  time  it  will  be  a  young  Bulgarian  or  a 
Spaniard,  highly  commended  to  us  by  experienced  Christian  friends  as  suited  for 
and  desiring  to  work  for  Christ  in  their  own  countries  ;  or  a  Swedish  sailor,  who 
has  been  in  all  parts  of  the  world,  and  speaks  five  or  six  languages,  and  is  wishful 
to  devote  his  life  to  missions  to  the  heathen. 


'  All  Sorts  and  Conditions  oj  Men."  59 

From  men  such  as  these  we  are  constantly  rejoiced  to  hear  Isaiah's  exclama- 
tion, "  Here  am  I,  send  me  "  ;  and  men  such  as  these  are  continually  givin^  God 
thanks  that  our  Institute  exists,  to  aid  them  in  acquiring  the  information  and 
experience  they  need,  and  in  procuring  the  introduction  they  require  to  missionary 
service. 

Applications  for  admission  to  the  Institute  reach  us  also  from  many  who  do 
not  appear  to  us  to  be  in  any  way  suited  for  mission  service ;  these  are  simply 
declined.  All  applicants  who  appear  likely  to  be  useful,  and  who  are  well 
recommended,  are  received  on  probation  ;  but  full  admission  to  the  privileges  of 
our  training  house  is  only  accorded  after  a  month  or  two  of  actual  experience  of 
the  individual. 

We  seek  sincere  piety  and  true  consecration  of  spirit,  in  the  first  place, 
natural  ability  and  force  of  character  and  general  vigour  of  mind  and  body  next, 
and  acquired  ability  and  educational  attainments  last.  The  more  a  man  has  of 
these  of  course  the  better ;  but  they  can  be  gained  by  patient  and  persevering 
study,  and  one  object  of  our  Institute  is  to  afford  the  opportunity  for  this.  No 
training  can  give  a  man  either  grace  or  strength  of  character  ;  and  we  con- 
sequently look  for  these  indispensable  requisites  before  accepting  an  applicant. 

Forty-three  additional  students  were  received  this  year,  including 
two  Brazilians,  two  Russian  Jews,  an  Armenian,  an  Egyptian, 
and  two  Africans.  Thirty-four  missionaries  left  us  in  the  course 
of  the  year  for  the  mission  field  in  Newfoundland,  Nova  Scotia, 
Brazil,  Bombay,  and  various  parts  of  China  and  Africa.  One,  Mr. 
Bowers,  who  left  us  for  Brazil,  was  a  young  man  who  had  won 
the  love  and  respect  both  of  tutors  and  students,  a  godly,  quiet, 
firm,  yet  gentle  Christian,  full  of  patience,  and  actuated  at  all  times 
by  high  principle ;  he  was  a  blessing  among  his  brethren,  and  a 
useful,  earnest  worker  for  the  souls  of  others.  He  was  tall  and 
strong,  and  looked  so  healthy  that  we  should  have  thought  him  one 
of  the  last  to  be  suddenly  laid  low  in  death.  The  state  of  Brazil 
lay  heavy  on  his  heart,  with  its  millions  of  people  groaning  under 
a  corrupt  and  oppressive  priesthood,  and  an  opening  occurring  in 
which  it  seemed  that  his  services  would  be  valuable,  he  sailed  for 
Pernambuco,  and  arrived  out  there  in  the  middle  of  March.  He 
had  been  for  some  time  studying  Portuguese,  and  was  therefore 
able  to  preach  twice  in  that  language  on  the  two  following  Sun- 
days. Before  the  third  Sunday  arrived  however  he  had  been  seized 
with  yellow  fever — that  scourge  of  Brazil  —  and  laid  in  an  early 
grave. 

He  was  the  last  of  the  seventy  to  leave  the  Institute,  and  the  first 
to  reach  his  heavenly  home.  Gone  before  he  had  fairly  shouldered 
his  burden ;  gone  ere  he  had  started  in  the  race  !  It  was  a  painful 
and  dark  providence,  and  made  us  realize,  for  the  first  time  in  con- 


6o 


The  First  Death. 


nection  with  this  work,  what 
we  have  often  had  to  realize 
since  :  that  it  is  easier  to  have 
communion  with  God  in  His 
thoughts  and  in  His  purposes 
than  in  His  providences.  It 
was  but  a  few  brief  weeks 
since,  in  perfect  health  and 
calm  hopefulness,  filled  with 
simple  trust  and  holy  purpose, 
he  had  bidden  us  farewell, 
introducing  to  us  his  betrothed 
wife,  and  saying  that  he 
hoped  she  would  join  him  in 
Brazil  in  the  course  of  twelve 
months.  His  mother,  who 
gladly  gave  him  up  for  Christ's 
sake,  and  his  sister,  who  ten- 
derly loved  him,  had  sat  be- 
side him  at  our  farewell 
meeting,  and  the  large  circle 
of  friends  in  the  provinces 
and  in  Scotland  had  joined 
us  in  prayer  for  him  that 
night,  for  his  gospel  labours 
and  his  sincere  and  consistent 
Christian  character  had  en- 
deared him  to  many  hearts. 
We  could  only  say  on  this 
occasion,  "  Thy  will  be  done," 
and  believe  that  "what  we 
know  not  now  we  shall  know 
hereafter."  He  was  preach- 
ing in  his  delirium,  and  when 
prayer  was  offered  at  his  bed-, 
side,  repeatedly  interjected  a 
clear  "  Amen." 

The  Evangelical  Church  of 
Pernambuco  wrote 


Close  the  Ranks, 


61 


We  received  him  into  our  midst  as  a  blessing  from  the  Lord  Jesus  !  lie  was 
elected  pastor  of  our  Church,  being  accepted  by  all  with  love  and  obedience  in  the 
Lord.  He  entered  immediately  on  his  charge,  delivering  addresses  which  greatly 
edified  us  in  spite  of  his  imperfect  acquaintance  with  the  language.  .  .  .  But 
medicine,  tender  care,  and  earnest  supplication,  all  was  fruitless.  You  can 
imagine  our  grief,  which  found  relief  only  at  the  feet  of  Christ,  where  death  is 
felt  to  have  no  victory  and  the  grave  no  sting.  The  interment  was  effected  at 
four  in  the  afternoon  of  the  same  day,  in  that  part  of  the  public  cemetery  set  apart 
for  believers  {i.e.  Protestants).  The  remains  were  followed  to  the  grave  by  the 
members  of  the  Church  and  believers  of  the  other  congregation.  The  Lord  was 
not  pleased  to  let  this  cup  pass  from  us  ;  we  bow  as  Jesus  bowed  in  the  garden  on 
Olivet,  "  Nevertheless,  not  as  we  will,  but  as  Thou  wilt." 

When  the  tidings  reached  us,  a  brother  in  the  Institute  imme- 
diately volunteered  to  be  "  baptized  for  the  dead  "  by  going  out  to 
Brazil  to  fill  the  place  of  dear  Bowers,  should  it  be  deemed  advis- 
able. This  brother,  Mr.  Fanstone,  is  still  labouring  in  Pernambuco, 
and  is  to  a  large  extent  a  self-supporting  missionary. 


fflfc*a 


Mi 


62 


The  Congo  Mission. 


THE  LATE  HENRY  CRAVEN,   OP  LIVERPOOL. 

First  Pioneer  Missionary  on  the  Congo.     Sailed  January,   1S7S. 
Died  at  Cabinda,  October,  1884. 

It  was  in  this  year  that  the  Livingstone  Inland  Mission,  which 
afterwards  attained  considerable  proportions,  and  is  now  one  of  the 
most  important  Central  African  missions,  was  founded.  It  was  the 
first  Christian  mission  on  the  Congo,  and  to  its  history  we  must 
refer  again  a  little  later  on.  One  of  our  students,  Mr.  Henry 
Craven,  sailed    in  January,    1878,  for  this  then  newly  opened  and 


"  The  House  is  too  Strait  for-  us."  63 

little  known  region,  and  was  followed  shortly  after  by  Messrs.  Tel- 
ford and  Johnson,  and  in  due  time  by  fifty  other  missionaries  from 
the  Institute,  of  whom  thirteen  laid  down  their  lives  in  Africa. 

The  Erection  of  Harley  College. 

Further  extensions  had  this  year  become  requisite  in  London. 
Up  to  this  time  our  work  had  been  carried  on  in  several  separate 
houses  at  some  distance  from  each  other  in  the  East  of  London. 
We  had  retained  the  original  home,  29,  Stepney  Green,  and  taken 
another  large  house  in  Burdett  Road.  The  classes  were  conducted 
at  Harley  House,  where  the  students  spent  the  day,  but  at  night  the 
party  were  divided  under  different  roofs,  a  plan  the  advantages  of  which 
were  largely  counterbalanced  by  disadvantages,  and  which  we  had 
long  been  anxious  to  abandon  by  concentrating  our  London  establish- 
ments into  one  at  Harley  House.  But  how  was  this  to  be  done  ? 
We  should  have  need  of  half  a  dozen  ordinary  London  houses  to 
give  each  of  our  fifty  students  a  room  to  himself,  as  we  were  anxious 
to  do,  for  privacy  is  a  privilege  specially  prized  by  the  servants  of 
God.  It  is  not  only  a  comfort,  but  a  means  to  grace  to  be  able 
to  enter  into  your  closet  and  shut  the  door.  If  we  erected  a  new 
building  for  the  purpose,  we  could  easily  provide  a  small,  but  well 
warmed  and  well  ventilated  room  for  each,  and  at  Bow  the  men 
would  be  nearer  their  mission  halls  than  in  Stepney,  and  thus  save 
much  walking  at  night  in  the  far  from  pleasant  streets  of  East 
London.  Altogether  we  felt  a  strong  desire  to  build  in  the  small 
field  at  the  back  of  Harley  House.  We  prayed  about  the  matter 
many  a  time,  consulted  an  architect,  and  got  a  plan.  We  found 
however  that  a  large  sum  of  money  would  be  required.  Apart 
from  the  cost  of  the  new  building,  twelve  hundred  pounds,  which  had 
been  kindly  advanced  by  a  friend  for  the  purchase  of  the  lease  of 
Harley  House,  had  to  be  paid  off  before  we  began,  and  this  alone 
seemed  a  great  difficulty  to  us. 

But  what  are  difficulties  to  the  God  of  missions  ?  Oh,  how  easily 
He  can  overcome  them  !  He  can  lay  his  finger  on  the  mainsprings 
of  human  action,  and  move  the  hearts  of  men.  Two  kind  friends 
of  our  work  combined  to  extinguish  this  claim,  and  two  noble 
donations  of  ,£600  each  did  it.  This  rejoiced  our  hearts  as  an 
earnest  of  the  fulfilment  of  our  desire  for  a  new  building,  but  we 
found  that  ,£4,000  or  ,£5,000  would  be  required  to  erect  and 
furnish   a   suitable   college,   prepare   and   lay   out  the  ground  and 


64 


A   Gift  oj  £3,000. 


LECTURE   HALLS   AND   DORMITORIFS   OF   THE   INSTITUTE   IN    LONDON 
{erect cl  in  the  grounds  of  Hurley  House). 


approaches,  etc.  How  was  it  likely  that  such  a  sum  could  be 
raised  ?  We  were  already  so  closely  occupied,  that  we  felt  we  could 
not  undertake  to  collect  it,  and  it  seemed  as  if  we  might  have  long 
to  wait  for  our  desire  to  be  accomplished. 

We  laid  the  matter  before  the  Lord,  and  before  one  to  whom  He 
has  given,  not  only  wealth,  but  what  is  better,  "great  grace"  to  use 
his  wealth  in  the  service  of  the  God  who  gave  it.  He  considered 
the  case;  we  knew  if  he  approved  of  the  object  he  would  aid  it : 
but  he  did  more,  he  virtually  undertook  the  task,  and  to  our  joy  and 
surprise,  after  full  consideration  of  the  subject,  he  quietly  said  to  us 
one  evening,  "  I  will  tell  you  what  I  have  decided  to  do  in  this 
matter :  I  have  concluded  to  devote  ,£3,000  to  the  object." 

What  could  we  say — to  our  friend,  to  our  Father  in  heaven? 
The  stone  was  rolled  away,  the  desire  of  our  hearts  and  of  many 
hearts  fulfilled;  more  than  we  asked  or  thought  given';  an  inestimable 
advantage  conferred  on  the  work;  a  benefit  secured  for  hundreds, 
and,  if  it  please  God,  for  thousands  of  young  evangelists  in  days 
and  years  to  come. 

Let  our  readers  judge  if  we  felt  glad  and  grateful,  moved  and 
melted  with  the  goodness  of  God,  and  resolved  in  future  to  fear  no 
evil  for  our  beloved  Institute,  which  had  thus  received  a  fresh  and 
striking  proof  of  His  favour. 


"  The  Lor  a  lovctli  a  Cheerfm  Giver."  65 

"  The  Lord  loveth  a  cheerful  giver."  We  rejoice  to  know  that 
this  liberal  friend  will  be  no  loser  in  the  day  of  Christ,  and  we  com- 
mend his  example  to  those  who  have  similar  power,  to  undertake 
single-handed  great  works  in  God's  service.  How  many  might  start 
and  sustain  a  mission  in  some  heathen  land,  who  now  content 
themselves  with  merely  giving  a  subscription  ! 

This  noble  donation  enabled  us  at  once  to  take  steps  for  the 
erection  of  the  proposed  building. 

An  extension  of  the  lease  of  Harley  House  was  negotiated  for 
and  our  friend  R.  H.  Hill,  of  Lombard  Court,  Hon.  Sec.  of  the 
China  Inland  Mission,  who  is  at  once  a  civil  engineer  and  an 
architect,  hit  upon  an  original  but  most  suitable  design,  which  com- 
bines the  useful,  the  ornamental,  and  the  economical  in  no  ordinary 
degree.  The  building  contains  two  large  and  lofty  lecture  halls  or 
class-rooms,  one  fifty  feet  and  the  other  thirty  feet  long,  by  thirty- 
four  wide  and  twenty  feet  high,  together  with  fifty  smaller  rooms 
having  each  a  good  sized  window,  and  ample  space  for  much  more 
than  "  a  bed,  and  a  table,  and  a  stool,  and  a  candlestick."  The 
building  thus  affords  prophet's  chambers  for  fifty  students,  together 
with  a  spacious  and  cheerful  class-room  and  a  lecture  hall,  lighted 
from  above  and  surrounded  by  a  gallery,  which  gives  access  to  the 
upper  tier  of  bedrooms.  A  meeting  of  400  or  '500  persons  can 
assemble  in  the  larger  hall.  The  building  stands  well  out  in  the 
open  ground  behind  Harley  House,  surrounded  on  all  sides  by 
garden,  and  entirely  shut  in  from  the  noise  and  dust  of  the  high 
road. 

The  ground-plan  arrangements  ot  the  building  are  simple,  but  the 
design  is  unique.  The  wood  cut  gives  the  elevation,  which  is  by 
no  means  unpleasing,  and  well  adapted  to  the  purpose.  It  was 
opened  on  October  8th,  1879,  with  a  day  of  special  services,  in 
which  many  friends  took  part,  including  the  Rev.  S.  Hebditch,  now 
in  Australia,  the  Rev.  Sinclair  Paterson,  the  Rev.  H.  E.  Brook,  the 
Rev.  T.  Davidson;  J.  Hudson  Taylor,  Reginald  Radcliffe,  S.  A. 
Blackwood ;  the  Rev.  J. 'Stephens,  and  others. 


66  "  Out  Father  charten  'evn.n 

Home  Heathen. 

During  its  construction  an  incident  occurred  which  caused  us 
vividly  to  realize  that  we  may  be  in  daily  intercourse  with  nominal 
Christians  who  are  virtually  heathen,  and  may  unwittingly  lose  many 
a  precious  opportunity  of  evangelizing  souls,  which,  though  dwelling 
in  London  in  the  nineteenth  century,  emphatically  "sit  in  darkness." 

When  the  walls  of  our  new  building  were  rapidly  reaching  their 
destined  height,  we  gave  a  supper  to  the  bricklayers  employed ;  after 
which  the  gospel  was  simply  and  lovingly  put  before  them,  and 
earnest  prayer  offered  both  for  their  spiritual  and  eternal  welfare. 
It  was  specially  asked  of  God  that  no  fatal  accident  might  be  per- 
mitted to  occur  while  the  building  was  in  course  of  erection. 

A  few  days  after  this  a  remarkable  thunderstorm  passed  early 
one  morning  over  the  East  of  London.  One  clap  of  thunder  espe- 
cially followed  so  instantaneously  on  a  vivid  flash  of  lightning,  and 
was  so  awfully  loud,  long,  and  explosive  in  sound,  as  to  electrify  all 
who  heard  it,  and  made  every  one  involuntarily  question,  "Am  I 
struck  ?  "  It  was  soon  after  six  in  the  morning,  and  the  men  had 
just  begun  their  work  on  the  building.  One  of  the  labourers  was 
standing  on  an  upper  scaffold,  with  his  arm  slightly  extended  at  the 
moment,  and  was  struck  by  the  lightning.  Mercifully  he  escaped 
very  serious  injury,  but  one  arm  was  for  the  time  paralysed,  and  he 
felt  as  if  it  had  been  torn  oft.  He  was  carried  to  the  hospital,  where 
skilful  and  active  measures  soon  alleviated  the  mischief,  though  it 
was  many  weeks  before  he  could  return  to  work. 

He  had  been  much  impressed  at  the  supper,  and  especially  with 
the  prayer  offered  for  the  safety  of  the  men ;  and  his  own  marvellous 
escape  from  what  might  have  been  sudden  death  of  course  recalled 
it  to  his  recollection.  A  short  time  after  the  accident  Mr.  Guinness 
had  a  conversation  with  him,  and  found  that  he  could  neither  read 
nor  write,  that  neither  he  nor  his  wife  and  child  ever  went  to  any 
place  of  worship,  nor  did  his  parents  before  him.  He  was  of  course 
very  ignorant ;  but  his  little  boy  had  partly  taught  him  his  letters. 
He  was  made  to  read  a  few  simple  words  in  the  Testament,  and 
the  gospel  was  explained  and  urged.  He  listened  with  the  greatest 
attention.  In  the  course  of  conversation  he  was  asked,  "  Do  you 
ever  pray  to  God  ?  " 

"  Oh  !  yes,  sir,  every  night ;  I  have  for  many  years — ever  since  I 
can  remember ! " 

"  Indeed  !  and  what  do  you  say?  " 


"  lis  what  I  was  Learnt  !  6y 

"Our  Father  charten  'evn,  'allord  be  Thy  name,"— imperfectly 
and  in  parrot-like  style  stumbling  through  the  Lord's  Prayer,  without 
apparently  attaching  any  meaning  to  the  sounds,  and  ending  with — 

Matthew,  Mark,  Look,  on  John, 

Bless  the  bed  that  I  lay  on, 

Four  corners  to  my  bed, 

Six  angels  there  lay  spread, 

Two  at  my  'ed  and  two  at  my  feet, 

And  two  to  guard  my  soul  when  I'm  asleep. 

Adding  seriously,  "  That's  the  six,  sir  !  and  anything  else  I  don't 
know  nothing  about — that's  every  word  I  know— prayer,  sir  ! "  After 
a  pause,  "  My  little  boy  can  say  these  prayers  as  good  I  can,  sir ; 
that's  just  what  I  was  teached,  and  I  try  to  teach  'im  the  same." 

It  was  evident  the  man  attached  no  meaning  to  either  of  the  forms 
of  words  he  had  used  since  his  childhood,  and  also  that  he  regarded 
them  as  of  equal  value — employed  them  in  ignorant  superstition  as 
a  sort  of  charm,  a  charm  given  him  by  his  father,  and  which  he  was 
in  duty  bound  to  give  to  his  son. 

"  Do  you  know  who  Matthew  and  Mark  are  ?  "  he  was  asked. 

"  No,  sir,  I  don't." 

"  What  do  you  mean  by  asking  them  to  bless  the  bed  ? " 

"  I  don't  know  no  more  than  I  was  teached  ;  my  father  teached 
it  to  me,  and  he's  no  scholar,  no  more's  my  mother.  He  used  to 
teach  me  when  I  was  a  little  boy,  so  I  teach  my  little  boy  the  same." 

"  But  where  do  you  think  Matthew  and  Mark  are  ?  " 

"  Don't  know,  sir,  unless  they're  in  'evn." 

"And  if  you  are  on  earth,  and  they  in  heaven,  how  can  they  hear 
your  prayer  ?  " 

"  Don't  know,  sir ;  it's  what  I  was  learnt ! " 

When  reasoned  with  as  to  the  folly  of  praying  to  human  beings 
instead  of  to  God,  and  urged  to  address  his  prayer  to  God  alone, 
he  assented,  and  seemed  to  feel  the  rightfulness  of  this.  "  There's 
only  one  Father  rules  the  lot  of  us,  I  believe." 

His  feelings  seemed  deeply  moved  when  the  gospel  was  explained 
to  him ;  and  he  wept  when  prayer  was  offered  for  and  with  him,  and 
gazed  with  profound  interest  on  a  picture — a  head  of  Christ  crowned 
with  thorns — which  happened  to  be  in  the  room,  observing  its  detail 
with  much  intelligence,  and  at  parting  he  promised  to  go  the  follow- 
ing day  to  our  mission  hall  in  the  neighbourhood. 

This  man  has  been  for  years  a  consistent  member  of  the  Church, 


68  Abstain  from  ah  Appearance  oj  Good. 

and  is  bringing  up  his  family  in  the  nurture  and  admonition  of  the 
Lord. 

Another  time",  a  tall  but  stooping  figure  was  shown  into  our  room 
in  the  dusk  of  the  evening,  and  introduced  himself  as  living  next 
door  to  this  same  hall,  and  as  wishing  to  ask  a  favour  which  as 
neighbours  we  were  in  a  position  to  grant.  In  the  conversation 
which  ensued,  we  found  that  he  had  been  an  officer  in  the  army, 
ruined  through  drink  and  vicious  habits,  a  man  who  had  nearly 
killed  himself  with  alcohol,  having  at  one  time  run  through  .£1,300 
in  seven  weeks.  He  had  brought  himself  and  his  poor  family  to 
poverty,  and  was  now  keeping  a  "  wardrobe  shop,"  which  we  found 
to  signify  an  old  clothes  store.  He  was  very  conscious  of  his  sin 
and  folly,  and  had  given  up  the  drink  altogether,  but  he  never  went 
to  any  place  of  worship,  nor  did  his  wife. 

"  Why  don't  you  go  into  Harley  Hall  sometimes,  as  you  live  next 
door  ?  "  we  inquired. 

"  Me  !  go  in  there  ?  Oh,  dear  no  !  I  shouldn't  think  of  such  a 
thing.  Such  places  are  not  for  me.  I  know  too  well  what  I  am  ; 
I'm  altogether  too  bad  to  put  my  foot  inside  any  such  place." 

"  But  the  worse  you  are  the  more  you  need  a  Saviour  !  Such 
places  are  to  help  you  to  find  the  Saviour." 

"  Oh,  dear  no,  sir  !  Such  places  are  for  decent,  steady,  religious 
people.  I  know  many  of  the  people  who  go  there,  and  I  often  drive 
away  the  noisy  boys  from  the  door  when  the  preaching  is  going  on  ! 
but  to  go  in,  no  !  I  shouldn't  dream  of  such  a  thing.  I  am  a  bad 
fellow,  or  at  least  I  have  been,  but  I  never  pretend  to  be  anything 
else  ;  I  don't  go  to  chapel  !  " 

And  he  evidently  considered  it  a  proof  of  some  remnant  of  right 
feeling  and  self-respect  that  he  abstained  from  all  profession  and 
appearance  of  good  ! 

Contact  with  spiritual  ignorance  such  as  this  is  good  preparation  for 
work  in  heathendom  !  Our  young  brethren  are  all  engaged  in  some 
form  or  other  of  evangelizing.  By  open  air  preaching,  by  house  to 
house  visitation,  by  cottage  meetings,  by  services  in  mission  halls, 
by  homely  addresses  in  the  lodging-houses,  by  children's  meetings, 
tract  distribution,  etc.,  they  seek  to  reach  and  influence  the  souls  of 
our  neighbours ;  and,  thank  God  !  not  without  some  measure  of  en- 
couragement and  success.  It  is  a  little  difficult  for  them  to  pursue 
with  energy  such  labours,  while  at  the  same  time  spending  their 
principal  strength,  thought,  and  time  on  study ;  but  it  is  good  prac 


The  Result  oj  Five  Years'1  Experience.  69 

tice,  for  though  study  may  after  a  time  be  laid  aside,  mission  work, 
whether  at  home  or  abroad,  must  always  be  pursued  amidst,  and  in 
spite  of  more  or  less  of  distraction  and  counter-attraction.  More- 
over we  feel  it  would  be  impossible  for  them  to  maintain  spirituality 
of  mind,  freshness  of  zeal  for  souls,  and  a  due  sense  of  the  inferiority 
of  merely  mental  work,  without  such  exercise  in  actual  gospel  minis- 
try ;  it  is  a  good  antidote  to  selfishness,  indolence,  and  pride,  and 
the  best  possible  preparation  for  future  labours. 

One  of  the  fruits  of  the  evangelistic  work  which  we  thus  carried  on 
in  East  London  was  the  development  of  our  mission  hall  at  Stratford 
into  a  self-sustaining  Christian  Church  under  one  of  our  married 
students,  Mr.  Towner.  The  original  building  was  replaced  by  a 
substantial  brick  church,  seating  1,000  people,  and  a  steady  good 
work  has  been  carried  on  for  many  years  in  that  densely  populated 
and  needy  neighbourhood. 


Our  Institute  had  by  this  time  lost  the  nature  01  an  experiment, 
and  claimed  to  be  regarded  as  a  proved  success.  Four  questions 
had  been  raised  when  we  undertook  it,  to  which  at  that  time  we 
could  not  return  any  other  answer  than  "we  shall  see." 

1.  Would  suitable  men  be  found,  and  be  willing  to  be  trained  for 
the  work  in  the  way  we  proposed  ? 

2.  Would  the  training  be  beneficial  to  them,  so  as  to  render  them 
decidedly  more  fit  to  enter  on  mission  work? 

3.  Would  openings  be  found  for  them  when  they  were  trained  ? 
And 

4.  Would  they  succeed  in  doing  valuable  missionary  service  ? 
Five  years'  experience  enabled  us  to  return  to  all  these  questions 

an  unhesitating  answer,  and  that  answer  a  uniform  yes.     We  wrote 
that  year  : 

First,  over  700  men  have  been  jound  willing  and  anxious  to  give  themselves 
to  Christ's  service  among  the  heathen  and  desirous  to  enter  our  Institute*.  At 
first  we  held  meetings  among  Christian  young  men,  and  sought  to  call  out  their 
zeal  and  devotion  ;  now  we  have  no  need  to  do  this ;  they  come  to  us  of  their 
own  accord,  in  larger  numbers  than  we  can  receive  them,  and  not  a  few  of  those 
who  apply  to  us  for  help  in  preparing  themselves  to  be  useful  in  other  lands  are 
men  of  the  right  stamp,  men  of  simple  faith  and  earnest  spirit,  of  strong  character 
and  of  physical  vigour,  adapting  them  for  the  service  to  which  they  aspire ;  men 
of  teachable  spirit,  willing  to  submit  to  the  weariness  of  study,  and  to  the  restraints 
of  a  period  of  training,  for  the  sake  of  attaining  their  ob'ect,  the  honour  of  preach- 
ing Christ  in  the  "regions  beyond." 


jo  "  Some  are  fallen  Asleep'' 

Secondly,  the  training  they  have  received  in  the  Institute,  though  sometimes 
of  shorter  duration  than  we  could  have  wished,  has  unquestionably  been,  under 
the  blessing  of  God,  helpful  to  these  young  men  in  a  variety  of  ways  ;  spiritually, 
intellectually,  and  practically,  they  all,  and  especially  the  foreigners,  have  gained 
much  during  their  tarriance  of  a  few  years  with  us.  They  have  proved  themselves 
capable  subsequently  of  acquiring  the  Chinese  and  other  languages  without 
difficulty  ;  many  of  them  have  indeed  be^n  able  within  the  first  twelve  months  to 
preach  in  Chinese,  and  we  believe  they  all  look  back  on  their  sojourn  in  the 
Institute  as  on  an  invaluable  period  in  their  lives.  To  many,  if  not  most  of  them, 
it  has  proved  not  only  a  preparation  for,  but  an  introduction  to,  the  mission  field, 
into  which,  without  its  aid,  they  might  never  have  succeeded  in  entering. 

Thirdly,  not  one  of  the  men  we  have  been  permitted  to  train  for  the  Master's 
service  has  failed  to  find  opportunity  for  it  when  he  was  ready.  On  the  contrary, 
we  have  sometimes  been  constrained  by  demands  for  service  to  send  out  men 
that  were  not  so  ripe  as  we  could  have  wished.  Former  students  of  the  Institute 
are  now  working  with  about  twenty  different  societies  and  associations  ;  many 
have  gone  out  and  made  their  own  way,  and  some  are  sustained  by  private 
individuals.  The  foreigners  generally  return  to  work  in  their  own  lands,  and 
those  who  from  health  or  any  other  cause  were  unfit  for  foreign  work  have  found 
spheres  of  usefulness  in  connection  with  home  missions. 

Fourth,  and  lastly,  they  have  succeeded  as  missionaries.  God  has  condescended 
to  bless  and  own  their  labours.  We  cannot  review  the  tidings  we  have  received 
of  and  from  them  during  the  past  year  without  realizing  this,  which  gives  us  more 
encouragement  than  anything  else.  Were  there  a  telescope  that  could  render 
visible  distant  scenes,  we  would  direct  it  in  turn  to  India  and  China  and  Africa, 
to  Australia  and  America  and  the  West  Indies,  and  show  to  our  friends  the  dear 
missionaries  formerly  students  in  the  Institute  in  their  present  homes  and  spheres. 
This  is  impossible  ;  we  must  be  content  to  give  from  a  few  in  each  land  pen-and- 
ink  sketches  of  their  doings  and  surroundings. 

The  work  was  now  fairly  established,  and  the  men  who  had  gone 
out  from  it  scattered  far  and  wide  over  heathendom.  It  had 
triumphed  over  many  difficulties  and  survived  many  trials ;  but  as 
is  often  the  case,  when  one  form  of  trial  is  removed  another  takes 
its  place. 

Our  Sixth  Year,  1878,  was  marked  with  many  sorrows,  so  that 
we  entitled  the  report  of  it 

"SOME  ARE  FALLEN  ASLEEP." 

The' friends  that  we  lost  during  its  course  included  the  head-master 
of  the  college,  our  valued  friend  Rev.  Anson  J.  Towell,  an  able, 
devoted,  and  spiritually  minded  man — a  ripe  scholar  and  enthusiastic 
teacher ;  Henry  Tayloe,  a  beloved  evangelist,  who  had  gone  out  from 
us  and  done  much  successful  work  for  the  Master  in  Jamaica ; 
James  Telford,  one  of  the  pioneers  who  fell  asleep  on  the  Congo  ; 
and  three  tenderly  cherished  members  of  our  own  family:  a  be- 
loved aged  mother,  and  last,  not  least,  our  own  two  precious  little 


A    Year  of  Bereavements.  71 

daughters — children  ot  seven  and  eight  years  of  age,  who  were 
taken  away  in  oju  day,  after  a  week's  illness,  by  that  terrible  malady 
diphtheria.  Death  is  no  respecter  of  persons  or  of  ages,  he  "  gathers 
the  bearded  grain  at  a  breath,  and  the  flowers  that  grow  between  " ; 
nor  does  he  give  much  warning  of  his  approach.  None  of  the 
above,  save  the  last,  who  had  been  long  feeble  and  ailing,  were  ill 
for  more  than  a  week.  Messrs.  Bowers,  Tayloe,  and  Telford  were 
all  carried  off  in  a  few  days  by  tropical  fevers  ;  and  Mr.  Towel  1  had 
only  sought  medical  help  a  few  days  before  his  death.  Our  precious 
little  Agnes  was  only  eight  days  ill,  and  her  sister  Phcebe  but  four 
days,  cut  off  in  their  beautiful  bloom  like  flowers  by  a  sudden  storm. 
Illness,  like  an  eclipse,  came  suddenly  on,  and  ere  we  were  well 
aware,  the  light  of  life  was  extinguished  !  We  were  led  to  realize 
that  at  all  times  we  are  "  nearer  home,  nearer  far,  than  we  think  !  " 
Our  hearts  were  almost  broken  by  the  last  of  these  bereave- 
ments, but  we  were  helped  to  realize  that  "  our  light  affliction,  which 
is  but  for  a  moment,  worketh  for  us  a  far  more  exceeding  and 
eternal  weight  of  glory."  We  were  destined  to  have  much  experi- 
ence of  bereavement  and  death  in  connection  with  the  Congo 
mission  later  on.  Our  brother  Telford  was  the  first  of  nine  of 
our  missionaries  who  were  to  lay  down  their  lives  for  Christ  in 
the  course  of  the  next  few  years.  The  following  lines  were  written 
on  the  occasion  of  these  deaths,  which  all  occurred  within  a  short 
time  of  each  other. 

THE  BRIGHT  BEYOND. 

Beyond  the  lowering  clouds  there  is  outspread 

The  broad  bright  blue  ;  and  the  sweet  wind  of  heaven 

Shall  bear  away  and  scatter  in  thin  space 

The  misty  gloom.     Avaunt,  ye  saddening  shades ! 

Hide  not  the  eye  of  day  !     Beyond  the  near, 

The  visible,  the  sorrowful,  the  dark, 

Shines  the  eternal  goodness  of  the  Lord  ! 

Firm  on  the  Rock  of  truth  I  plant  my  foot, 

And  dare  the  tempest !     Howl,  ye  sweeping  winds  ! 

Hark  !     Ye  are  but  the  base  of  those  grand  chords 

Which  thrill  the  heavens  !     Ah  !  this  conflict  dire, 

This  war  of  good  and  ill,  these  clashing  swords, 

These  tears  that  glitter  in  ten  thousand  eyes, 

These  hands  stretched  heavenward,  and  these  heavens  that  stoop 


j  2  The  Bright  Beyond. 

To  human  help, — I  know  ye,  and  I  feel 

In  sympathy  with  that  high,  holy  end 

For  which  creation  travails,  and  for  which 

The  heaving  bosom  of  eternal  Love 

Is  flecked  with  blood,  and  the  hot  tears  descond 

From  the  Redeemer's  eyes. 

Sin,  thou  art  doomed 
Death,  thou  shalt  surely  die  !    The  grave  shall  be 
The  birth-place  of  a  new  and  beauteous  life. 
Already  o'er  the  battlefield  the  light 
Of  evening  is  descending,  and  the  day 
Of  waving  palm  branches  and  victory 
Waits  for  the  signal  from  the  hand  of  God 
To  spring  into  existence.     Joy  is  sown 
In  the  dark  silent  soil,  and  the  unlovely  earth 
Teems  with  the  seeds  of  immortality. 

Thank  God,  I  see  the  sequel  :   with  this  hand 
Across  the  lines  on  life's  disfigured  page, 
Yea,  'mid  its  freshest  records,  ere  they  dry, 
I  write  their  contradiction  !     Faith  can  see 
Love  through  these  strange  disguises,  and  behind 
The  veil  of  grief  and  the  entangled  thorn 
Can  recognise  its  covenanted  God. 
March  30th,   1879. 

Students  Received  and  Missionaries  sent  out  in  1879. 

Forty  new  students  were  received  into  the  Institute  in  1879, 
six  of  whom  were  foreigners  ;  and  forty  fresh  missionaries  went  out, 
three  of  them  taking  their  wives  with  them.  One  of  these  was  a 
medical  missionary,  who  undertook  work  in  Armenia ;  another 
was  a  Swede,  who  settled  in  Spain  ;  and  two  Portuguese  brethren 
returned  to  evangelize  in  their  own  country.  An  Egyptian  brother 
returned  to  Egypt,  and  a  Russian  to  Russia  ;  while  two  Arabic- 
speaking  Syrians  went,  one  to  the  Sahara  and  the  other  to  evangelize 
among  the  Druses  of  the  Lebanon.  Three  or  four  joined  the 
Congo  mission,  and  four  went  to  the  West  Indies.  Two  brethren, 
Messrs.  Bartlett  and  Brewster,  devoted  themselves  to  Bible  carriage 
work,  and  were  enabled  by  this  means  to  bring  the  glad  tidings  of 
salvation  to  over  300,000  persons  of  the  classes  who  do  not  frequent 
places  of  worship,  selling  at  the  same  time  50,000  Bibles  and  Testa- 


Life  at  Cliff.  73 

ments,  and  distributing  half  a  million  of  gospel  tracts.      We  give 
some  particulars  of  their  work  in  the  chapter  on  home  missions. 

The  college  work  continued  as  usual  in  London,  and  the  follow- 
ing sketch,  written  at  the  time,  will  give  an  idea  of  the 

Life  at  Cliff. 

Could  we  but  assemble  our  London  friends  in  this  lovely  spot,  how  they 
would  enjoy  it,  and  bless  God  for  having  made  it  a  nursery  for  missions  through- 
out the  world  !  Is  there  a  pleasanter,  sweeter  spot  in  all  England  than  Hulme 
Cliff,  girt  round  with  the  hills  of  Derbyshire?  We  have  travelled  over  England 
from  north  to  south  and  from  east  to  west,  but  we  do  not  know  a  place  we  should 
prefer  to  this  for  such  a  purpose. 

Hulme  Cliff  is  a  hill  among  hills.  Behind  it  rises  a  height  of  800  feet,  a 
heathery  upland  moor  ;  before  it  winds  a  narrow,  verdant  valley.  Up  the  moor 
the  hills  rise  to  perpendicular  sandstone  cliffs,  with  miles  of  moorland  stretching 
from  their  summits,  north,  south,  and  east.  Down  in  the  valley  rushes  the 
glittering  Derwent,  filling  the  air  with  the  sound  of  ever-falling  waters.  Hill 
rises  beyond  hill  all  round,  and  clefts  open  to  narrow  valleys  and  rocky  gullies 
with  lovely  undulating  country  here  and  there.  Close  around  are  clustering  trees, 
and  beyond  them  cultivated  fields  and  waving  woods  ;  but  we  see  no  roads,  no 
dusty  highways,  and  hear  no  sound  of  traffic.  The  woods  are  green  with  summer 
foliage,  and  far  off  hills  gray  with  mist  and  distance  ;  the  air  is  fresh  and  cool, 
for  there  seems  always  a  breeze  stirring  here,  and  the  voice  of  the  waters,  breeze, 
and  birds  mingle  from  morn  till  night.  As  I  write  the  latter  are  singing,  as  though 
there  were  no  sin  and  no  sorrow  in  the  world.  No  other  sound  reaches  me  but 
these  tranquillizing  voices. 

We  call  this  OUR  GALILEE  — our  refuge  from  close,  crowded,  noisy,  dusty, 
ill-savoured,  enormous  London. 

This  morning  they  breakfasted,  as  usual,  at  7.30.  At  8  o'clock  they  gathered 
with  the  whole  household  for  reading,  our  bow  window  dining-room  being  com 
pletcly  filled  with  a  party  of  about  forty.  We  sang  of  the  Rock  that  is  higher 
than  any  earthly  help  or  refuge,  and  then  I  expounded  the  glorious  15th  of  John, 
after  which  two  of  our  number  led  in  prayer.  The  whole  work  of  the  Institute 
was  laid  before  God  in  earnest  supplication,  those  of  our  number  now  crossing  the 
Atlantic,  those  just  starting  for  Brazil,  those  leaving  next  week  for  South  Africa, 
all  our  missionary  brethren  being  specially  remembered.  And  the  humble  cry 
went  up  that  God  would  supply  every  want  of  the  Institute,  meeting  the  large 
current  expenses  and  the  special  needs  pressing  on  it  just  now  in  connection  with 
the  new  building  in  London.  Were  not  these  supplications  heard  in  heaven  ? 
Will  they  not  be  answered  ? 

"  In  some  way  or  other  tlie  Lord  will  provide  ; 
It  may  not  be  my  way,  it  may  not  be  thy  way, 
And  yet  in  His  own  way  the  Lord  will  provide." 

At  9  o'clock  the   gong   sounded   for   studies,  and   since    then   I    have   scarcely 
heard  a  sound  except  the  voices  of  the  birds  ;  but  after  dinner  the  place  will 

E 


74  The  Day's  Routine  at  Cliff. 

present  a  busier  aspect.  All  will  be  at  work  in  the  farm  buildings,  in  the  garden, 
and  in  the  fields,  every  man  having  on  his  working  jacket.  One  will  be  at  the 
carpenter's  bench,  another  at  the  forge — for  we  have  a  capital  little  forge,  and 
make  our  own  hinges,  bolts,  bars,  etc.,  and  repair  the  farm  implements.  Some 
will  be  working  in  the  garden,  some  hoeing  in  the  fields,  some  out  on  errands  U> 
the  railway,  five  miles  distant,  some  drawing  coals  from  Ilassop  ;  and  one  will  be 
leaving  us  on  his  way  to  South  Africa. 

Then  at  6  o'clock  in  the  evening,  after  tea,  all  will  again  be  gathered  in 
the  classroom  for  quiet  study,  keeping  steadily  to  their  books  until  9  o'clock, 
when  the  household  assembles  for  evening  prayers,  gathering  under  the  shadow  of 
Jehovah's  ever-sheltering,  everlasting  arms,  to  taste  the  blessedness  of  renewed 
confession,  communion,  and  consecration  at  the  throne  of  grace.  In  the  prayers 
which  ascend,  the  work  of  the  students  in  the  surrounding  villages  will  be  re- 
membered— the  cottage  meetings,  the  frequent  visitation  from  house  to  house,  the 
open-air  services,  the  meetings  in  halls  and  chapels  in  places  widely  scattered  :  all 
these  will  be  pleaded  for  in  prayer,  for  the  brethren  take  a  warm  interest  in  their 
work.  In  many  of  the  villages  near  have  precious  souls  been  saved.  In  Calver, 
Curbar,  Eyam,  Foolow,  Baslow,  Bakewell,  Pillsley,  Froggatt,  Grindleford  Bridge, 
Youlgrave,  Little  Longston,  Great  Longston,  Tideswell,  Over  Haddon,  Ashford, 
Beeley,  Hollins,  Stoney  Middleton,  Taddington,  Calton,  Lees,  etc.,  gospel  meet- 
ings have  been  held — in  some  occasionally,  in  others  frequently,  in  some  regularly 
from  week  to  week.  The  word  has  sounded  out  from  this  little  centre  in  every 
direction  for  many  miles  all  round.  Some  of  the  places  are  three,  five,  seven, 
eight,  and  ten  miles  distant,  so  that  the  journeys  of  the  students  to  preach  in  them 
(being  made  on  foot  to  and  fro)  afford  an  excellent  training,  which  will  be  helpful 
to  them  in  their  future  mission  work  in  other  distant  scenes.  Of  the  men  trained 
at  Cliff  many  are  now  labouring  in  Africa,  in  Jamaica,  and  in  China,  and  in  other 
far  off  lands.  The  name  of  dear  Telford,  whose  remains  sleep  on  the  banks 
of  the  mighty  Congo,  is  well  known  and  loved  in  this  neighbourhood,  where  his 
simple  earnestness  and  devotion  won  for  him  the  esteem  of  all  who  knew  him  ; 
and  most  of  the  brethren  now  working  in  the  Livingstone  Inland  Mission  passed 
the  greater  part  of  their  preparation  time  at  Cliff. 

Next  session  most  of  the  men  who  are  studying  this  term  will  be  up  in 
London,  gaining  the  very  different  experience  of  city  life  and  labours,  while  they 
will  be  replaced  here  by  new  comers. 

The  possession  of  this  country  branch  enables  us  thus  to  give  our  students  the 
double  advantage  of  town  and  country  training  and  work,  in  just  that  proportion 
which  may  seem  best  for  each,  reference  being  had  to  his  probable  future  sphere. 
We  regard  it  especially  as  our  African  nursery ;  but  sometimes  a  young  man 
comes  to  us  who  has  had  too  much  of  town  or  city  life,  who  is  pale  and  thin  and 
stunted  in  development  by  sedentary  employment  or  long  office  hours,  whose 
nerves  have  been  overtaxed  by  the  pressure  of  business,  and  whose  health,  though 
sound,  has  been  injured  by  want  of  fresh  air  and  exercise  Such  a  one,  even 
though  not  intending  to  go  ultimately  to  Africa,  is  materially  helped  by  a  session 
spent  amid  these  beautiful*  breezy  uplands,  in  the  quiet,  yet  healthful  and  active, 
pursuits  of  country  life.  God  bless  the  dear  donor,  whose  heart  led  her  to  conse- 
crate to  His  service,  for  the  benefit  of  the  young  recruits  of  His  mission  army, 
her  sweet  home  amid  the  hills  of  Derbyshire  !     Already  the  place  is  dear  to  many 


A  Roumanian  Student. 


n 


a  heart,  and  clothed  with  holy,  happy  memories  ;  and  as  the  years  go  by,  and 
the  numbers  trained  in  it  increase,  in  many  a  remote  corner  of  the  world  Huhiic 
Cliff  College,  Curbar,  will  be  remembered  with  pleasure,  and  prayed  for  with 
sincerity  and  love. 


HULME  CLIFF   COLLEGE,   CUR15AR   (WEST   FRONT). 


The  following  paper  was  read  at  a  farewell  meeting  held  at  Cliff, 
at  the  close  of  the  session,  by  a  Roumanian  student,  wrho  had  spent 
only  five  months  in  the  college,  and  knew  no  English  at  all  when 
he  entered.  We  give  it  in  a  slightly  abbreviated  form,  but  scarcely 
altering  a  sentence;  and  we  think  our  friends  will  agree  with  us 
that  the  measure  of  acquaintance  with  our  language  evinced  by  it, 
after  so  brief  a  period  of  study,  is  remarkable. 

Its  simple  testimony  to  the  spirit  that  reigns  in  our  quiet, 
secluded  Derbyshire  home  is  pleasing,  as  giving  the  impression  pro- 
duced on  one  who  had  never  dwelt  in  a  similar  moral  atmosphere, 
and  who  came  to  us  rather  as  a  visitor  than  as  a  student,  seeking 
refreshment  and  repose  after  having  been  somewhat  severely  tried 
by  sickness,  as  well  as  by  mental  exercise  and  conflict.  Mr.  Segall 
is,  we  are  thankful  to  say,  now  in  full  health  and  vigour,  and  has 
entered  on  an  appointment  as  missionary  to  the  Jews. 


j6  Brethren  Dwelling  togetJict 

A  Farewell  Speech  at  Hulme  Cliff  College,  June  22nd,  1880. 

"  Behold,  how  goo .1  and  pleasant  it  is  for  brethren  to  dwell  together  in  unity  !  " 

—Psalm  exxxiii.  I. 

Some  of  you  may   perhaps   think    that   this   text   is   not   at  all 
adapted  to  our  present  occasion,  as  we  are  now  gathered  to  bid 
one  another  farewell  and  to  depart  from  this  place.     But  allow  me 
to  put  you  one  question  :  "  Why  do  you  bid  farewell  one  to  another?  " 
You  would  of  course  reply,  "  Because  we  are  going  away."     Well 
then,  why  do  you  not  go  to  Chatsworth,  for  instance,  and  pay  a 
farewell  visit  to  the  Duke  of  Devonshire,  or  to  any  other  person  you 
don't  know,  or  know  only  by  name?     It  would  be  very  ridiculous 
if  you  did  so,  and  the  duke  would  show  you  the  door  !     Then, 
you  see,  we  do  not  take  leave  of  any  one,  but  only  of  certain  persons 
with   whom   we   are   acquainted,    and   with   whom  we   have    been 
dwelling  together.     And,  again,  there  may  be  acquaintance,  and  even 
dwelling  together,  without  the  doing  what  we  are  doing  now.     In 
Germany  and   France,  for  example,  there  are  houses  in  the  cities 
with  six,  seven,  eight  storeys,  wherein  sometimes  more  than  fifteen 
families   are   dwelling   together   without   knowing   one   another,  or 
bidding  farewell  when  one  of  these  leaves  the  house  !     In  a  German 
university  you  find  many  students  who  are  together  several  hours 
a  day  in  the  same  building,  in  the  same  auditory,  hearing  the  same 
lectures  ;  and  yet  they  do  not  know  each  other's  names.     Thus,  you 
see,  something  more  than  acquaintance,  more  than  dwelling  together, 
is  wanted  to  produce  a  cordial  farewell  meeting.     There  must  still 
be  another  cause  :  there  must  be  ties  which  join  men  as  we  are 
united  here,  not    only  externally  but  internally;    and   I  think  we 
shall  enjoy  much  better  our  meeting,  if  we  see,  by  explaining  this 
text,  what  kind  of  ties  these  must  be,  and  ask  whether  such  ties  have 
connected  us. 

"  Behold,  how  good  and  pleasant  it  is  for  brethren  to  dwell 
together  in  unity  !  "  When  we  speak  of  brethren  or  brothers,  which 
is  the  same  in  the  Hebrew  language,  we  mean  human  beings  who 
are  bound  together  by  any  ties  of  union,  as  natural  connection  or 
consanguinity,  common  interests,  common  feelings,  common  suffer- 
ings, common  hopes,  etc.  But  is  their  dwelling  together  always  in 
unity  ?  The  history  of  mankind  shows  us  it  is  too  often  the 
opposite,  and  I  think  each  of  us  knows  this  by  his  own  experience. 
Let  us  take,  for  example,  people  who  are  bound  together  by  the 
most  natural  tie,  common  parentage.     Shall  we  find  amongst  them 


in  Unity.  yy 

always  peace  ?  O  friends,  it  is  sad  to  say,  and  yet  true,  that  even 
in  domestic  circles  there  are  disagreements,  discords,  quarrellings, 
fightings,  which  sometimes  end  in  murder  and  death !  So  was  it 
between  the  first  brothers,  Cain  and  Abel ;  so  between  Esau  and 
Jacob ;  so  between  the  latter's  sons ;  so  between  the  children  of 
king  David  himself;  and  so,  more  or  less,  in  many  a  family  still 
to-day  ! 

And  what  of  more  distant  relations  ?  "  Let  there  be  no  strife 
between  me  and  thee,  for  we  be  brethren,"  said  Abram  to  Lot ;  and 
he  gave  him  the  good  advice  to  depart  and  separate.  You  will  find, 
with  very  few  exceptions,  that  when  relations  will  live  in  unity  they 
must  not  dwell  together.  The  time  does  not  allow  me  to  illuminate 
this  by  examples,  but  I  think  each  of  you  knows  about  it,  perhaps 
too  .much ! 

Or  shall  we  take  whole  nations,  as  the  English,  French,  Germans, 
dwelling  together,  do  they  live  in  unity  and  concord?  Wherefrom 
come  the  political  parties :  Conservatives,  Liberals,  Radicals,  com- 
munists, socialists,  nihilists  ?  Is  this  unity  ?  Each  of  these  parties 
desire  to  diminish,  and,  if  possible,  to  destroy  their  rivals  ;  and  the 
aim  of  the  communist  is  to  annihilate  all  institutions,  arrangements, 
and  orders  of  God  and  mankind.  If  we  look  through  all  the  history 
of  the  world,  we  will  find  no  nations  dwelling  together  in  unity.  I 
remember  you  of  one  fact  only,  of  the  great  Revolution  in  France  ! 
They  went  through  the  streets  of  Paris  and  announced  to  the  people 
u/ralemite"  !  But  at  the  same  time  and  in  the  same  city  hundreds 
and  thousands  of  men,  women,  and  children  fell  as  victims  on  the 
scaffold ;  thousands  were  beheaded  with  the  guillotine ;  and  human 
life  was  valued  less  than  that  of  a  sparrow,  so  that  blood  flowed 
like  rivers  through  the  streets.  These  are  the  results  of  ties  of 
merely  a  national  or  social  character,  of  mere  human  fraternity 

Of  which  kind  of  brethren  then  must  speak  the  psalmist  ?  and 
which  sort  of  men  can  dwell  together  in  unity  ?  If  we  turn  to  the 
Gospel  according  to  St.  Matthew,  and  read  there  in  the  twelfth 
chapter,  vv.  46-50,  we  shall  find  them  !  Whosoever  doeth  the 
will  of  God  is  C/irisfs  brother.  What  is  God's  will  ?  You  know  it, 
all  who  are  here  !  God's  will  is  that  we  accept  His  only  begotten 
Son  as  our  Redeemer,  as  our  Saviour,  as  our  God,  as  our  Friend, 
and  even  as  our  Brother.  And  then  ?  O  friends,  and  then,  when 
we  accept  Him  as  the  Ruler  of  our  souls,  when  we  give  Him  all 
we  have  and  are,  when  we  say,  "  Not  what  I   will,  but  what  Thou 


78  All  Nationalities 

wilt,"  then  shall  we  no  more  hate  our  fellows  !  How  can  we  quarrel 
or  hate,  if  we  follow  our  blessed  Master,  who  came  into  the  world 
even  on  account  of  love  to  mankind  !  He  the  Son  of  the  everlast- 
ing God,  He  the  King  of  heaven  and  earth,  by  whom  and  to  whom 
are  all  things,  He  is  not  ashamed  to  call  us  brethren  and  to  love  us  ! 
And  you  will  find,  dear  brethren — I  dare  call  you  brethren  now — 
that  where  such  brethren  dwell  together  there  will  be  indeed  peace, 
complaisance,  sweetness,  and  concord !  Look  into  the  Church 
history  of  the  first  centuries,  read  what  heathen  authors,  the  greatest 
enemies  of  the  Christendom,  say  about  the  primitive  Christians. 
They  speak  with  the  greatest  bitterness  of  them,  but  they  have  to 
bear  testimony  to  their  unity  and  to  their  love  to  each  other. 

And  now  let  me  ask  you,  have  we  also  dwelt  in  unity  in  this 
place  ?  Could  anybody  use  the  words  of  the  king  David,  and  say, 
"  Behold,  how  good  and  pleasant  "  it  was  to  see  the  students  at  Cliff 
College  living  together,  and  praying  together,  and  studying  together, 
and  working  together  in  unity  ?  I  think  each  of  us  may  affirm  it 
with  a  good  conscience.  We  have  been  here,  men  from  every 
quarter  of  this  earth,  from  north,  south,  east,  and  west ;  we  have  not 
at  all  been  relations  by  blood,  yet  all  washed  with  the  blood  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  made  through  Him  brethren.  There  have  been  in  this 
college  Englishmen,  Scotchmen,  Irishmen,  American,  Portuguese, 
Frenchmen,  German,  and  Roumanian.  There  have  been  here 
Baptists,  Methodists,  Presbyterians,  Lutherans,  Churchmen  (as  you 
call  it),  etc.,  and  we  have  yet  known  each  other  only  as  Christians. 
We  had  the  same  aim,  the  same  interests,  the  same  sympathies,  the 
same  spirit,  the  same  hope  !  These  have  been  the  ties  which  bound 
us,  and  made  our  dwelling  together  good  and  pleasant.  And  for 
my  part  I  thank  the  Lord  that  He  brought  me  here  to  Cliff.  When 
I  came  here  some  doubts  I  had  imbibed  in  the  university  troubled 
my  soul  very  much.  I  believed  in  my  heart,  but  could  not  believe 
some  Christian  truths  in  my  head.  But  here,  through  your  good 
examples,  through  your  living  Christianity,  I  learned  to  trust  in  God 
with  childlike  faith. 

Therefore,  as  we  depart  now  from  each  other,  it  is  not  only  right 
but  our  duty  to  give  our  Lord  and  Saviour  thanks  for  all  the  mercies 
He  granted  to  us  during  the  last  session.  It  has  not  been  our  love 
which  held  us  here  in  harmony.  No  ;  I  showed  you  plainly  the 
result  of  mere  human  love.  We  are  by  nature  selfish,  and  seek 
always  what  is  good  and  agreeable  for  ourselves.     It  has  been  the 


and  Denominations. 


79 


Lord's  siiperjluent  kindness  and  special  blessing  on  this  Institute, 
which  made  us  bear  with  one  another  in  patience,  sympathise  with 
each  other,  and  love  as  brethren  ! 

We  depart  now,  dear  brethren,  but  we  do  not  separate.  .  .  . 
If  any  one  is  leaving  his  parents,  or  his  relations,  or  his  friends,  or 
his  native  country,  to  no  more  see  them  again,  he  may  perhaps 
remember  them  a  short  time ;  but  very  soon  he  begins  to  forget 
them,  and  if  not,  death  will  surely  dissolve  every  relationship  and  all 
natural  ties.  Most  of  us  shall  no  more  see  Cliff,  or  meet  in  London, 
or  perhaps  even  in  this  life  ;  and  yet  we  shall  ever  be  in  communion 
by  mutual  prayer,  so  that  neither  space  nor  time  is  able  to  separate 
us.  And  even  death,  which  destroys  and  annihilates  every  natural 
connection,  will  only  bring  us  together  and  unite  us  for  ever  and  ever  ! 

Thus  we  say  farewell,  dear  Cliff !  We  shall  never  forget  thee  and 
the  blessings  received  here  !  Farewell,  beautiful  hills  and  valleys, 
which  are  only  a  feeble  resemblance  of  the  beauty  of  the  eternal 
regions !  Farewell,  dear  brethren  ;  go  ye  forth,  and  I  will  do  the 
same.  Let  us  go  forth  and  fight  the  good  fight,  and  be  sure  that  the 
victory  will  be  ours  because  Christ  fights  for  us. 

I  did  not  come  here  with  the  purpose  of  being  a  missionary,  but 
God's  thoughts  are  not  ours  !  I  would  not  now  be  anything  else. 
Short  will  be  our  troubles,  and  long  our  reward  !  And  then  we  shall, 
we  will,  we  must  see  each  other  again  in  the  heavenly  land,  because 
the  Lord  has  promised  it,  and  His  promises  are  never  mutable; 
we  shall  sit  with  Abraham  and  Isaac  and  Jacob,  with  the  apostles 
and  all  the  saints,  and  with  our  own  converts,  and  praise  in  har- 
monious hymns  Christ's  wonderful  love  to  mankind  !     Amen. 


The  Livingstone  Inland  Mission.  81 

In  this  year  also  we  received  by  deed  of  gift  the  useful  mission 
buildings  in  Bromley  by  Bow,  consisting  of  a  chapel  and  school- 
rooms, which  had  been  erected  some  years  previously  by  the  valued 
friend  who  contributed  so  largely  to  the  building  of  our  college.  The 
immediate  neighbourhood  of  the  chapel  is  a  large  area,  containing 
600  or  700  closely  built  dwellings,  in  most  of  which  two,  and  often 
three,  families  reside.  It  occupies  a  peculiarly  isolated  position  in 
the  neighbourhood,  and  inclosed  by  its  four  boundaries  are  upwards 
of  30,000  human  beings,  of  whom  but  few  comparatively  ever  enter 
a  place  of  worship.  The  student  who  took  charge  of  this  building 
wrote  : 

The  impression  of  their  spiritual  condition  conveyed  by  contact  with  the 
people  is  that  of  the  most  utter  indifference  to  everything  relating  to  their  eternal 
welfare.  Without  the  aid  of  any  sensational  means,  we  have,  during  the  last 
twelve  months,  seen  the  gospel  making  a  saving  impression  on  some  of  these 
precious  souls,  and  we  hope  that  an  influence  for  good  has  been  spreading  itself 
among  the  homes  and  in  the  hearts  of  the  people.  Every  house  in  the  neighbour- 
hood has  been  visited  about  six  times  with  gospel  publications  :  and  the  visitors 
have  been  well  received,  especially  of  late. 

Several  years  later  this  chapel  was  considerably  enlarged,  and 
made  to  hold  about  a  thousand  persons,  while  good  rooms  for  night 
schools,  mothers'  meetings,  etc.,  were  added  at  the  back.  It  is  now 
thronged  on  Sundays,  and  the  work  carried  on  there  during  the  week 
will  be  described  farther  on,  in  our  chapter  on  the  home  missions. 


Our  Report  for  the  year  1880  was  entitled  "The  Livingstone 
Inland  Mission,"  as  during  that  year  we  became  responsible  for  the 
entire  management  of  a  mission  on  the  Congo  bearing  this  name, 
which,  in  company  with  a  few  friends,  we  had  founded  some  years 
previously.  It  was  not  officially  connected  with  our  Institute  at  the 
beginning.  We  were  members  of  the  committee  by  which  it  was 
originally  formed  and  by  which  it  was  managed,  and  so  deeply 
interested  were  we  in  the  field  that  we  gladly  pleaded  its  cause  both 
by  voice  and  by  pen.  All  its  staff  in  Africa  had  been  students  in 
our  Institute,  but  we  had  not  been  officially  responsible  for  its  sup- 
port and  guidance. 

Its  growth  had  been  rapid,  and  though  not  yet  quite  three  years 
old  it  had  already  taxed  pretty  severely  the  time  and  resources  of  the 
small  group  of  Christian  friends  to  whom  it  owed  its  origin.  No  one 
of  them  was  free  to  give  more  time  or  attention  to  its  development, 


82  Central  Africa  for  Christ. 

and  as  one  principle  of  its  constitution  was  that  no  salaried  officers 
should  be  employed  in  its  management,  it  became  difficult  to  see 
how  its  rapidly  increasing  necessities  were  to  be  provided  for.  Its 
late  kind  honorary  secretary,  the  Rev.  A.  Tilly,  of  Cardiff  (who  was 
also  to  some  extent  its  father),  was  too  much  engaged  in  pastoral 
work  in  connection  with  his  chapel  in  Cardiff  to  be  able  to  make 
adequate  efforts  on  its  behalf.  Under  these  circumstances  we  were 
led,  though  shrinking  greatly  from  the  assumption  of  so  serious  an 
additional  responsibility,  to  agree  to  adopt  the  Livingstone  Inland 
Mission  as  our  youngest  child,  and  to  give  it  henceforth  a  favoured 
place  in  the  family  of  our  own  special  efforts  on  behalf  of  missions, 
undertaking  both  its  management  and  support  in  connection  with 
this  Institute. 

The  story  of  this  mission  is  so  interesting  that  we  must  reserve  it 
for  a  separate  book,  and  merely  mention  it  here  as  having  formed 
a  serious  addition  to  our  responsibility  in  the  course  of  our  seventh 
year.  It  was  an  effort  to  evangelize  an  immense  district  then 
recently  opened  in  Central  Africa,  and  which  in  this  close  of  the  19th 
century  had  never  received  the  gospel  message.  Not  without  hours 
spent  in  anxious  consideration,  not  without  many  an  earnest  prayer 
for  guidance,  did  we  venture  on  a  step  which  must,  as  we  clearly 
foresaw,  largely  increase  our  responsibilities,  already  sufficiently 
heavy. 

But  when  we  thought  of  the  vast  regions  of  the  Congo  Valley 
with  their  utterly  unevangelized  populations,  and  recalled  our  blessed 
Master's  parting  injunction  to  "preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature," 
we  had  no  question  that  it  was  His  will  that  the  gospel  should  be 
sent,  and  sent  speedily,  to  these  dwellers  in  darkness  and  in  the 
shadow  of  death.  And  when  we  looked  round  on  the  large  group  of 
earnest  missionary  students  gathered  about  us  day  by  day,  many  01 
whom  have  no  higher  ambition  than  to  give  their  lives  to  serving 
Christ  in  Central  Africa,  we  could  not  doubt  that  it  was  our  duty,  not 
merely  to  prepare  them  for  such  work,  but  to  aid  them  in  undertaking 
it  and  in  carrying  it  on. 

We  gladly  and  gratefully  recalled  how  the  Lord  had  helped  us  in 
establishing  and  sustaining  the  Institute,  with  its  many  branches,  and 
trusted  He  would  aid  us  also  to  sustain  and  extend 

The  First  Christian  Mission  on  the  Congo. 
There  is  a  common  saying  among  poor  mothers,  and  a  saying  as 


Give  us  Roow,  t/io.t  we  may  Dwell.  83 

true  as  it  is  common,  to  the  effect  that  "  God  never  sends  another 
mouth  without  sending  food  to  fill  it " ;  and  surely  He  never  lays 
before  His  servants  a  fresh  branch  of  service,  without  at  the  same 
time  supplying  the  strength  and  all  the  other  resources  required  for 
its  accomplishment. 

We  felt  that  if  the  claims  and  needs  of  Central  Africa  were  realized, 
no  true  disciple  of  Christ  could  help  wanting  to  do  all  he  possibly 
could  in  response  ;  and  we  knew  that  all  can  do  more  than  they 
think,  that  ability  increases  with  exercise,  and  that  of  giving,  as  of  all 
else,  it  may  be  said,  "  To  him  that  hath  shall  be  given,  and  he  shall 
have  more  abundantly."  The  event  justified  our  confidence  ;  for 
during  that  first  year,  in  which  ,£5,000  were  required  for  the  deve- 
lopment of  this  young  and  difficult  mission,  ,£5,000  more  were  sent 
in,  causing  through  us  thanksgivings  to  God. 

Fifty-three  brethren  went  out  from  us  into  various  mission  fields  in 
the  course  of  that  year :  eight  to  Central  Africa,  seven  to  South 
Africa,  one  to  North  Africa,  five  to  North  America  and  two  to  South 
America,  three  to  Spain  and  Portugal,  two  to  Germany,  and  one 
or  two  each  to  Norway,  Russia,  France,  Switzerland,  China,  Egypt, 
Turkey,  and  the  Cape  Verde  Islands.  Most  of  these  are  still  labour- 
ing diligently  in  the  gospel,  though  some  have  "fallen  asleep." 

The  year  1 880-1  was  again  a  year  of  building,  both  in  England 
and  in  Africa. 

Like  the  sons  of  the  prophets  in  Elisha's  day,  our  students  in 
England  and  our  missionaries  in  Africa  complained  that  the  place 
was  too  strait  for  them,  and  we  were  constrained  to  make  them 
places  where  they  might  dwell. 

Growing  work  needs,  of  course,  growing  accommodation  ;  and  the 
growth  of  the  Institute  and  its  operations  during  the  fourteen  years  oi 
its  existence  may  be  gauged  by  the  amount  of  accommodation  it 
requires  and  uses  now,  compared  with  that  which  it  possessed  at  the 
outset. 

We  had  to  erect  that  year  a  new  entry  to  Harley  House  for  trades- 
men, goods,  etc.  ;  so  much  of  packing  cases  for  departing  missionaries, 
boxes,  barrels,  hampers,  tracts,  and  other  heavy  luggage  were  con- 
stantly coming  and  going  that  this  addition  became  a  necessity.  It 
was  constructed,  with  a  room  over  it,  for  ,£250.  We  had  to  add  a 
schoolroom  to  the  mission  hall  in  Devons  Road,  and  to  build  several 
houses  and  chapels  on  the  Congo. 


84  Rebuilding  at  Cliff. 

But  especially  this  was  the  year  in  which  we  felt  we  could  no  longer 
delay  erecting  at  Cliff  buildings  better  adapted  to  our  purpose  than 
the  existing  ones. 

For  five  years  we  had  occupied  the  premises  in  Derbyshire  with- 
out attempting,  save  in  the  roughest  and  most  temporary  way,  to 
adapt  them  for  a  college.  We  wished,  before  going  to  any  consider- 
able expense,  to  try  the  experiment  of  having  half  our  students  in  the 
country  and  half  in  London,  so  as  to  learn  by  experience  whether  a 
country  branch  would  afford  greater  advantages  than  a  corresponding 
extension  in  London. 

At  first  therefore  we  merely  turned  the  lofts  over  the  farm  buildings 
into  rough,  makeshift  dormitories,  so  as  temporarily  to  accommodate 
some  twenty  or  twenty-five  students,  and  made  use  of  such  rooms  as 
there  were  for  class-rooms  and  dining-room.  The  work  was  carried 
on  thus  for  five  years,  but  under  considerable  disadvantages ;  and  we 
always  intended,  if  we  retained  the  place  at  all,  to  endeavour  to  adapt 
it  better  to  its  object. 

The  house,  having  been  built  for  the  use  of  a  private  family  only, 
was  not  of  course  fit  for  a  college.  But,  together  with  the  adjacent 
buildings  and  the  twenty-one  acres  of  land  on  which  it  stands,  it  is 
devoted  by  trust  deed  to  the  purpose  of  a  training  home  for  mission- 
aries, and  can  never  be  used  for  any  other  object.  It  is  a  valuable 
property,  situated  in  a  healthful  and  very  beautiful  neighbourhood. 
It  came  into  our  hands,  as  our  friends  will  remember,  in  the  provi- 
dence of  God,  without  our  seeking  it ;  and  though  we  at  first 
undertook  to  carry  on  work  there  only  for  a  time,  leaving  ourselves 
free  to  give  the  place  up  again  to  the  trustees  if  we  found  it  best  so 
to  do,  yet  our  experience  of  it  had  convinced  us  that  it  was  our  duty 
to  retain  the  responsibility,  and  to  endeavour  to  put  the  Derbyshire 
branch  of  the  Institute  on  as  permanent  a  footing  as  the  London 
one. 

It  is  indeed  in  every  way  a  most  valuable  adjunct  to  the  Institute. 
As  a  rule,  it  is  not  well  to  keep  a  student  in  London  during  the  whole 
of  his  course.  Great  advantages  for  practical  missionary  training, 
and  in  certain  other  respects,  arc  counterbalanced  by  some  very 
great  disadvantages.  In  many  cases,  and  especially  in  those  where 
a  prolonged  training  is  desirable,  health  is  better  preserved  and  pre- 
liminary studies  are  pursued  with  more  benefit,  amidst  the  quiet, 
healthful  influences  of  the  country  than  amid  the  distractions  and 
temptations  of  city  life. 


Advantages  oj  a  Country  Branch.  85 

At  Cliff  our  students  learn  gardening  and  farming,  can  have  prac- 
tice at  the  forge  and  at  the  carpenter's  bench,  in  rough  building  and 
fencing  operations,  in  driving,  riding,  and  the  care  of  cattle,  and 
in  long  pedestrian  journeys  to  distant  villages.  About  a  hundred 
different  students  had  spent  a  longer  or  shorter  time  at  Cliff  since  it 
came  into  our  hands,  and  its  beneficial  effect  on  them  had  been 
marked.  The  Derbyshire  party  quite  eclipse  the  London  party  in 
point  of  general  vigour  and  spirits.  The  bracing  breezes  of  the 
Peak,  and  the  healthful  agricultural  occupations  in  which  they  en- 
gage during  a  part  of  each  day,  rapidly  develop  the  physique  of  the 
young  men,  without  producing  any  counterbalancing  lack  on  the 
mental  side.  The  greater  seclusion  and  the  absence  of  city  distrac- 
tions permit  of  quiet,  steady  progress  in  study,  and  the  improvement 
of  the  Cliff  students  has  been  all  we  could  wish. 

Since  the  Livingstone  Inland  Mission  became  a  branch  of  the 
Institute,  we  have  realized  still  more  the  importance  of  being  able  to 
give  men  this  country  training,  as  fitting  them  the  better  for  life  in 
Congoland.  Cliff  House  has  also  been  of  real  service  from  time  to 
time  a  sa  pleasant  convalescent  home  for  returned  invalided  mission- 
aries, and  for  students  from  London  needing  change  of  air. 

Having  for  these  and  other  reasons  (as,  for  instance,  the  compara- 
tive economy  of  using  a  freehold  country  residence  instead  of  a 
large  house  in  London)  decided  to  retain  and  continue  working  the 
Derbyshire  branch  of  the  Institute,  we  felt  that  we  ought  not  longer 
to  delay  converting  the  house  into  a  college. 

Part  of  the  existing  buildings  were  modern,  good,  substantial,  and 
available ;  other  parts  were  old,  and  altogether  unsuitable  for  our 
purposes.  There  were  some  outbuildings  constructed  in  good  faced 
stone,  which  were  of  no  use  in  their  existing  form,  but  the  materials 
of  which  being  good,  and  on  the  spot,  were  valuable  for  building 
purposes. 

After  full  and  prayerful  consideration  of  the  subject,  we  concluded 
the  time  had  come  when  we  should  undertake  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  the  erection  of  a  second  college  for  His  young  servants  ;  and 
a  legacy  of  ,£1,000  falling  due  just  at  the  time  confirmed  us  in  the 
purpose.  An  extra  house  was  taken  in  Bow  for  the  temporary 
accommodation  of  the  Cliff  students,  and  the  premises  were  de- 
livered over  to  the  care  of  the  contractors  in  November,  1880. 

For  some  months  confusion  reigned  supreme.  Much  had  to  be 
destroyed  and  pulled  down  before  anything  could  be  built  up,  and 


S6  The  Alterations  and  Enlargements. 

it  was  not  till  the  spring  that  the  new  house  began  to  emerge  out 
of  the  ruins  of  the  old. 

The  alterations  and  enlargements  were,  on  the  whole,  most  satis- 
factory. They  were  confided  to  the  builders  who  had  erected  the 
college  at  Bow,  and  the  contract  comprised  the  taking  down  of  a 
large  amount  of  old  and  useless  masonry,  the  rebuilding  of  a  portion 
of  the  existing  house,  and  a  large  addition  to  it  on  one  side  of  a 
substantial  wing,  which  connected  the  old  house  with  other  existing 
buildings,  and  made  all  into  one  large  mansion,  containing  forty 
rooms. 

As  now  completed,  the  college  is  somewhat  irregular  in  form,  owing 
partly  to  the  nature  of  the  estate  on  which  it  stands,  and  partly 
to  the  direction  of  the  previously  existing  buildings.  We  studied 
adaptation,  comfort,  and  economy  more  than  architectural  appear- 
ance, but  the  result  is  by  no  means  unpleasing.  The  college  is 
substantially  built  in  faced  stone,  to  match  that  part  of  the  original 
house  which  is  incorporated  into  it.  The  main  structure  faces  the 
west,  looking  over  the  lovely  valley  of  the  Derwent,  and  is  one 
hundred  and  twenty-five  feet  long,  consisting  of  two  three-storeyed, 
bay-windowed  ends,  and  a  two-storeyed  recessed  centre.  The  south 
front,  fifty  feet  wide  with  portico,  is  old,  the  only  unchanged  part  of 
the  building.  The  north  front,  eighty  feet  wide,  is  three  storeys 
high ;  and  there  is  besides  a  long  extension  facing  westward,  con- 
taining offices  and  dormitories,  which  makes  the  total  length  of  the 
western  front  of  the  house  two  hundred  and  twenty-six  feet. 

A  broad  terrace  runs  round  the  house,  which  stands  a  hundred 
feet  above  the  river  and  the  road,  and  has  on  every  side  beautiful 
and  extensive  prospects. 

Inside  we  have  provided  spacious  and  cheerful  class-room  (45  ft. 
by  22  ft.),  dining-room  (40  ft.  by  20  ft.),  library,  tutors'  rooms,  and 
studies,  together  with  bedroom  accommodation  for  forty  students, 
and  rooms  besides  for  returned  missionaries  or  other  Christian 
workers,  to  whom  a  tarriance  in  the  bracing  air  of  the  Peak  may  be 
beneficial. 

The  whole  is  lighted  with  gas  produced  on  the  premises  from 
gasoline  by  one  of  Edmundson's  admirable  "Alpha"  gas  machines, 
and  it  is  warmed  throughout  by  hot  water  pipes,  heated  from  an 
exterior  furnace.  The  climate  of  north  Derbyshire  being  severe  in 
winter,  this  last  provision  is  a  valuable  addition  to  the  healthiness 
and  comfort  of  the  place. 


The  Nezu  Chapel. 


87 


THE   NEW   CHArEL   AT   CLIFF 


A  new  chapel  was  erected  on  the  grounds  and  an  observatory. 
The  farm  buildings,  which  originally  stood  close  to  the  house,  were 
removed  to  a  distance,  and  some  hill  side  acres  of  the  farm  were 
converted  into  ornamental  grounds,  adding  much  to  the  beauty 
and  attractiveness  of  the  spot. 

In  March  of  this  year  we  wrote  : 

As  regards  the  finances  of  the  undertaking,  we  can  gladly  raise  our  Ebenezer  ! 
"  Hitherto  the  Lord  hath  helped  us. "  We  have  been  able  to  meet  each  instalment 
as  it  fell  due  ;  between  four  and  five  thousand  pounds  have  already  been  paid,  and 
though  considerably  more  will  be  due  when  the  works  are  finished,  we  have  every 
hope  and  confidence  that  all  that  is  needed  will  be  provided  by  Him  in  whose 
name  and  for  whose  service  this  college  is  being  erected.  Some  nobly  generous 
donations  have  cheered  our  hearts  and  strengthened  our  hands.  Three  donors 
gave  ^500  each,  and  several  others  ,£100.  We  have  not  yet  received  a  legacy 
clue,  and  on  which  we  had  calculated  as  a  help  in  the  Undertaking ;  but  two  or 
three  friends  have  kindly  advanced  us  the  sum  (,£1,000)  in  loans,  two  of  which  are 
without  interest. 

It  was  in  this  year  also  that  we  were  enabled  to  procure  and  send 
out  to  the  mission  on  the  Congo  a  steam  launch  for  the  lower  river, 
with  a  couple  of  small  boats  for  loading  and  unloading. 


88  Deaths  of  Tivo  Students. 

In  the  year  1 880-1,  forty-four  new  students  were  received,  and 
thirty-eight  left  us  for  the  foreign  field.  We  will  give  their  names  in 
an  appendix. 

Besides  these,  we  lost  in  the  course  of  this  year  two  students  by 
death,  Mr.  James  Bradburn  and  Mr.  Frank  Eldershaw.  The  former 
was  suddenly  called  home  by  one  brief  week  of  illness  in  January, 
and  the  latter  by  small-pox  just  at  the  beginning  of  the  vacation. 
He  left  Harley  House  in  apparently  good  health,  and  went  down  to 
Scotland  by  sea.  He  was  ill  when  he  reached  his  friends,  they 
thought  with  typhoid  fever,  but  he  became  rapidly  worse,  and  the 
symptoms  of  malignant  small-pox  soon  developed  themselves.  He 
had  to  be  removed  to  a  hospital,  where  after  a  few  days  of  suffering 
he  passed  away — full  of  peace  and  even  triumph  in  Christ, — to  be  for 
ever  with  the  Lord.  He  was  so  healthy  and  vigorous  a  man,  that  it 
was  a  great  surprise  and  shock  to  all  his  companions  and  to  our- 
selves to  find  his  course  so  quickly  ended.  Not  on  the  Congo  only 
are  young  men  prematurely  cut  off  1  If  we  have  lost  two  in  the  mis- 
sion to  that  country  this  year,  we  have  also  lost  two  here  at  home, 
exposed  to  no  special  risks,  and  surrounded  by  every  advantage. 
Mr.  Eldershaw  intended  to  join  the  Livingstone  Inland  Mission 
and  seemed  well  fitted  to  be  useful  in  it.  He  was  a  godly  and  very 
amiable  man,  always  ready  to  serve  others,  and  always  warm-hearted 
in  his  work. 

In  the  following  year,  188 1-2,  fifty-one  missionaries  went  out 
from  us,  that  is,  one  a  week  on  an  average.  Three  sisters  were  also 
sent  out  that  year,  and  several  invalided  missionaries,  who  had  been 
at  home  on  furlough,  returned  to  their  fields  of  labour  in  India  and 
Africa.  Twelve  of  the  missionaries  went  to  the  Congo,  five  to  India, 
three  to  China,  five  to  South  Africa  and  one  to  East  Africa,  four 
to  the  United  States,  three  to  Canada,  one  each  to  Labrador,  the 
Argentine  Republic,  and  Uruguay,  and  thirteen  went  to  different 
posts  in  Europe,  including  some  in  Germany  and  Finland,  as  well 
as  in  England,  Scotland,  and  Wales. 

Besides  the  above,  a  number  of  "probationers"  spent  a  longer  or 
shorter  time  in  the  Institute,  though  they  were  not  in  the  end 
received  as  students.  Two  or  three  students  also  were  dismissed, 
proving  in  our  judgment  unsuitable  men  for  the  work,  and  two 
withdrew,  the  strain  put  upon  them  here  of  a  couple  of  hours'  evan- 
gelistic work  daily,  in  addition  to  six  or  seven  hours  of  study, 
proving  too  hard  for  them. 


The  Institute  a  Sieve.  89 

Such  withdrawals  we  do  not  regret ;  it  is  one  of  our  great  desires 
that  the  Institute  should  thus  act  as  a  sieve,  and  strain  out  all  who 
are  not  physically,  mentally,  morally,  and  spiritually  strong  men,  fit 
for  the  arduous  life  of  a  missionary.  We  dare  not  enlist  men  who 
are  weak  either  in  body,  mind,  or  spirit,  as  recruits  for  the  foreign 
mission  army,  but  only  those  able  and  willing  to  "endure  hardness 
as  good  soldiers  of  Jesus  Christ."  Hard  toil,  hard  study,  hard  times, 
hard  tasks  in  every  way,  must,  if  he  be  faithful  and  efficient,  fall  to 
the  share  of  the  missionary ;  and  if  a  young  man  is  either  unfit  or 
disinclined  to  face  such  here  at  home  in  England,  it  is  clear  that 
to  send  him  forth  to  encounter  them  in  heathendom  would  be  a 
folly.  Mechanics  at  home  work  nine  or  ten  hours  a  day,  professional 
students  often  more,  and  tens  of  thousands  of  poor,  weak  women 
and  girls  toil  from  twelve  to  fourteen  hours  daily,  and  rarely  have 
any  change  or  recreation.  Six  or  seven  hours  of  study  and  two  of 
practical  work  are  therefore  the  minimum  we  think  it  wise  to  require 
from  our  students.  At  Cliff,  the  work  being  mainly  healthful  out- 
door manual  labour,  more  study  can  be  accomplished,  and  nine 
hours  are  consequently  spent  in  the  class-room.  In  London,  the 
practical  work  being  evangelistic,  and  somewhat  exhausting  to  heart, 
brain,  and  nervous  system,  rather  less  study  is  desirable.  In  both, 
Sunday  mornings  are  left  free  for  worship,  and  Sunday  afternoons 
and  evenings  are  consecrated  to  Christian  service. 

The  evangelistic  work  of  the  students  is  of  course  simple  in 
character  and  varied  in  nature.  It  does  not  consist  of  preaching 
to  large  or  critical  audiences  every  evening,  or  demand  any  very 
elaborate  preparation.  It  is  conducted  mainly  in  mission  halls  and 
schools,  by  house  to  house  visitation,  open-air  meetings,  tent  and 
Bible  carriage  work,  tract  distribution,  sick  visitation,  and  min  istry 
to  the  dying,  classes  and  evening  schools,  village  meetings,  etc. 
Work  of  this  character  is  a  change  from  close  study,  and  chang  e  of 
occupation  is  itself  recreation.  Seven  hours  a  day  are  still  left  for 
meals,  domestic  duties,  private  devotion,  and  leisure ;  and  each  man 
has  one  afternoon  and  evening  a  week  completely  free  and  at 
his  own  disposal.  We  consider  it  important  that  the  daily  routine 
should  make  a  demand  on  unselfish  consecration,  and  tend  to  form  a 
habit  of  living  for  others.  Study,  even  when  pursued,  as  it  is  by  our 
students,  with  the  noblest  ends  in  view,  has  as  its  immediate  result 
and  object  self  improvement,  and  to  studious  minds  it  is  the  highest 
form  of  self  indulgence.     Irksome  to  the  restless  energy  of  boys,  it 


VIEW   IN   SH 


CHINA. 


92  Training  Home. 

is  delightful  to  the  mature  minds  of  men.  Hence,  to  afford  them 
leisure  and  opportunity  for  a  course  of  study  merely  would  not  be 
to  test  the  Christian  devotedness  of  volunteers  for  mission  service,  but 
their  mental  abilities  only ;  and  its  result  would  be  to  make  good 
students  but  bad  missionaries.  Two  or  three  years  spent  in  seeking 
self  improvement  exclusively  would  be  a  poor  practical  preparation 
for  a  life  to  be  spent  in  seeking  the  improvement  of  others.  Habits 
of  unselfishness,  of  loving  devotion  to  the  interests  of  others,  of  daily 
labour  for  the  salvation  of  souls,  need  to  be  formed  and  fixed  quite 
as  much  as  habits  of  study,  and  we  dare  not  cultivate  the  intellect, 
and  neglect  the  cultivation  of  self  denial,  evangelistic  zeal,  devoted 
diligence,  and  practical  sagacity  in  soul-winning  work. 

We  are  quite  aware  that  this  feature  of  the  Institute  keeps  out  of 
it  a  certain  class  of  Christian  men  who  would  otherwise  gladly  enter 
it,  and  that  it  has  led  to  the  withdrawal  of  a  few  who  have  entered  it. 
This  is  no  matter  of  regret  to  us,  but  the  reverse.  We  do  not 
intend  to  depart  from  our  original  purpose,  i.e.  to  have  a  Training 
Home,  not  a  mere  college  or  teaching  home,  for  missionaries.  We 
see  no  reason  to  think  that  missionary  work  is  an  exception  to  the 
rule  that  applies  to  all  other  work,  that  practice  alone  makes  perfect. 
Doctors  and  engineers,  artists  and  sculptors,  even  carpenters  and 
masons,  must  do  practical  work  as  well  as  theoretical  study.  Why 
not  missionaries  ?  Of  course  the  consecration  of  two  hours  daily 
to  such  practical  work  diminishes  the  time  for  study,  and  precludes 
the  degree  of  intellectual  progress  which  might  otherwise  be  at- 
tained ;  but  this  price  is  not  too  much  to  pay  for  the  result  secured. 
The  moral  is  higher  than  the  mental,  and  the  spiritual  is  higher  and 
more  important  still.  Not  what  a  man  knows  is  the  great  thing,  but 
what  a  man  is. 


93 

VACATION  EXPERIENCES. 

We  should  hardly  give  a  full  impression  of  Institute  work  if  we 
did  not  add  a  little  description  of  vacation  experiences.  As  most 
of  the  students  are  limited  in  means,  we  do  not  make  three  terms 
in  the  year  or  give  them  more  than  one  vacation.  That  is  in  the 
autumn,  when  they  can  generally  obtain  engagements  in  connection 
with  evangelistic  work,  or  spend  the  time  usefully  in  their  own 
homes.  Many  Christian  friends  who  are  carrying  on  special  summer 
missions,  in  tents  and  otherwise,  are  glad  of  the  help  of  some  of 
the  students.  Three  or  four  will  go  to  help  in  the  mission  to  the 
fishermen  in  the  North  Sea  fleet,  living  on  board  the  mission 
schooner,  and  evangelizing  the  men  on  the  ships  of  the  fleet,  which 
remain  out  at  sea  often  for  three  and  six  months  together,  sending 
the  fish  caught  to  London  daily  by  a  steamer  kept  for  the  purpose. 

In  1883  we  wrote  : 

One  brother  has  been  carrying  on  a  mission  in  a  remote  hamlet  on  the  moors 
near  Cliff,  where,  though  a  chapel  existed,  no  services  had  been  held  for  a  long 
time.  The  dwellers  in  the  scattered  farms  for  miles  round  have  been  cheered 
and  blessed  by  the  means  of  grace  thus  brought  to  them,  and  the  gospel  has  been 
gladly  received  by  many.  Another  brother,  a  Frenchman,  has  been  distributing 
the  Scriptures  and  preaching  Christ  among  the  colonists  in  the  province  of  Oran, 
Algiers.  Some  have  been  helping  in  tent  and  Bible  carriage  missions,  and  others 
preaching  in  Scotland  and  Ireland,  and  our  brethren  Orest  and  Liljestrand  have 
continued  their  labours  in  Finland  with  much  blessing. 

Meanwhile  our  East  End  thousands  cannot  of  course  be  neglected,  and  some 
of  our  party  are  always  at  work  in  Old  Ford,  Bow,  and  Bromley.  In  July  we 
had  many  large  gatherings  at  Harley  House.  A  farewell  meeting  on  the  2nd,  at 
which  several  brethren  were  commended  to  God  for  the  work  to  which  lie  had 
called  them,  and  took  leave  of  the  Institute  as  students,  after  longer  or  shorter 
periods  of  residence.  There  have  since  left  our  shores  Bedros  Aslanyan, 
M.R.  C.S. ,  who  goes  out  to  labour  as  a  medical  missionary  at  Erzeroum  ;  George 
Hessenauer,  M.R. C.S. ,  and  his  wife,  who  hope  to  establish  a  medical  mission  in 
connection  with  the  Society  of  Friends  in  Judsea  ;  Messrs.  Upcraft  and  Murray, 
joining  the  staff  of  the  Bible  Society  in  China  (as  Messrs.  Brown,  Ilarman,  and 
Walley  have  also  done  this  summer)  ;  Mr.  Sturman  for  the  China  Inland  Mission; 
Mr.  Barrosso  for  Spain  ;  and  others  for  other  spheres. 

On  July  3rd  another  large  assembly  filled  the  garden  at  Harley  House,  a 
gathering  of  the  friends  connected  with  a  mission  hall  at  Clapton  Park,  where  our 
brother,  Mr.  John  Bain,  has  laboured  for  some  years  with  marked  success  and 
blessing.  Glad  and  thankful  we  felt  as  we  looked  round  the  well  filled  tent  and 
marked  the  glow  of  grateful  Christian  love  towards  Mr.  Bain,  which  brightened 
every  face  as  he  moved  about  among  his  flock.  The  tie  between  an  evangelist 
and  the  converts  God  has  given  him  is  a  deep  and  tender  one,  and  few  joys  are 
purer  or  sweeter  than  that  felt  by  such  a  one  in  the  fruit  of  his  labours.  To  be 
permitted  to  come  again  with  rejoicing,  bearing  his  sheaves  with  him,  is  a  portion 

G 


94  Vacation  Experiences. 

every  gospel  labourer  should  covet.  Mr.  Bain,  having  finished  his  course  as  a 
student,  ceases  to  be  connected  with  the  Institute  any  longer  in  this  capacity,  but 
will  remain  attached  to  it  for  a  time  in  the  position  of  evangelist. 

On  July  4th  we  welcomed  some  three  or  four  hundred  men  connected  with 
the  North  London  Railway  to  tea  in  the  tent,  and  to  a  gospel  meeting  in  the 
college  hall  afterwards  ;  and  we  have  the  joy  of  knowing  that  this  meeting  was 
the  turning-point  in  at  least  one  man's  life,  as  well  as  a  time  of  blessing  to  many. 

On  the  10th  a  similar  gathering  of  policemen  filled  the  hall,  and,  as  a  result, 
a  branch  of  the  Association  of  Christian  Police  was  formed  for  Bow,  and  a  weekly 
Bible-class  was  established,  to  be  conducted  by  a  member  of  our  household. 

We  were  anxious  to  gather  the  tram  drivers  and  conductors  also  to  a  feast. 
The  duties  of  these  poor  fellows  are  however  so  incessant,  that  it  is  difficult  to 
find  an  hour  when  they  are  free.  It  was  suggested  that  six  o'clock  on  Sunday 
morning  would  be  the  best  time,  and  we  invited  them  consequently  to  breakfast  at 
that  hour.  A  considerable  number  responded,  though  they  did  not  fill  the  hall  as 
the  other  parties  had  done  ;  but  we  had  reason  to  think  the  invitations  had  been 
imperfectly  distributed.  "Lots  more  of  us  would  have  come,  ma'am,  and  glad, 
if  we  had  known  of  it,"  said  one  of  the  men  ;  "  we  don't  like  this  getting  no 
Sundays  !  Wish  you'd  have  such  a  meeting  every  week  !  "  We  think  of  trying 
to  do  something  of  this  sort  for  them.  Their  lot  is  a  very  hard  one — long  hours 
of  daily  toil  and  seven  days  a  week  !  What  chance  have  they  of  hearing  the 
gospel  ? 

On  the  20th  our  Ben  Jonson  Schools  had  their  annual  tea  at  Harley  House, 
and  many  other  schools  and  mothers'  meetings  and  Bible-classes  subsequently 
enjoyed  such  refreshment  as  a  London  garden  may  afford. 

By  the  end  of  July,  some  of  our  valued  helpers  having  returned  from  their 
holiday,  we  were  able  to  leave  London,  though  a  larger  party  of  students  and 
returned  missionaries  than  usual  were  spending  the  vacation  at  Harley  House, 
making,  with  probationers  on  trial  for  next  session,  a  party  of  about  thirty. 

Very  pleasant  and  refreshing  did  the  quiet,  breezy  hills  of  Derbyshire  seem 
after  the  noise  and  heat  of  July  in  London.  And  we  were  privileged  during  the 
month  of  August  to  welcome  a  considerable  number  of  Christian  friends  from 
various  parts  of  the  country  at  Hulme  Cliff  College.  The  students'  large  rooms, 
converted  into  temporary  dining  and  drawing-rooms,  give  plenty  of  space  to  a 
party  of  fifty  or  sixty  visitors,  for  which  also  there  is  bedroom  accommodation, 
while  the  house  generally  is  roomy  enough  to  avoid  any  sense  of  uncomfortable 
crowding  with  such  a  company,  even  when  the  weather  is  unfavourable  for  out- 
door exercise.  Much  pleasant  social  intercourse  and  Christian  conference  was 
enjoyed  during  these  brief  bright  weeks  of  summer  sunshine,  and  the  fresh 
realization  was  granted  to  us  that  they  that  wait  on  the  Lord  shall  renew  their 
strength.  There  is  little  opportunity  in  the  busy  life  of  Christian  workers  in 
London  for  any  real  social  intercourse.  They  sec  each  other's  faces  at  great 
meetings,  but  know  little  of  each  other's  hearts  or  minds,  and  there  arises  a 
danger  of  each  becoming  too  much  engrossed  with  his  own  peculiar  sphere  of 
work,  and  forgetting  to  sympathise  with  the  aims  and  interests  of  others.  It  is 
well  at  times  to  meet  Christians  of  all  sorts  in  circumstances  where  you  can  really 
learn  to  love  each  other,  to  enjoy  together  an  occasional  Elim  in  the  wilderness. 
Missionaries  in  heathendom  were  very  often  on  our  hearts  and  in  our  prayer- 
meatings,  and  the  Congo  boys  in  our  midst  did  not  allow  of  our  ever  forgetting  the 
dear  labourers  in  the  Dark  Continent. 


The  Sutnmei  at  Cliff.  95 

We  had  indeed  council  meetings  during  the  month  both  for  the  Congo 
mission  and  for  the  Kabyle  mission,  many  of  the  friends  belonging  to  both  having 
joined  us  at  Cliff. 

Our  dear  friend,  Mrs.  Henry  Reed,  the  donor  of  our  steam  launch  for  the 
Upper  Congo,  with  her  young  family,  spent  their  last  month  in  England  with  us 
before  returning  to  their  distant  home  in  Tasmania.  This  visit  had  important  and 
unexpected  results  to  us  personally,  for  it  has  led  to  our  two  younger  children 
accompanying  these  dear  friends  on  their  return  to  the  colony.  A  long  voyage 
had  been  prescribed  as  the  best  tonic  for  these  dear  children,  neither  of  whom  are 
very  robust  in  health,  but  it  seemed  a  remedy  altogether  out  of  reach  at  the  time 
it  was  medically  suggested.  We  had  been  tempted  to  take  some  anxious  thought 
as  to  how  best  to  arrange  for  their  benefit  during  the  coming  winter,  as  East 
London  was  ill  suited  to  their  state  of  health,  and  we  could  not  leave  them  alone 
at  Cliff.  Mrs.  Reed's  kind  and  cordial  invitation  to  them  to  return  with  her  and 
their  young  friends  to  Australia  seemed  to  us  therefore  a  gracious  providence,  in 
keeping  with  all  our  Eather's  tender  care  and  knowledge  of  our  every  need. 
Though  startled  at  first  at  the  thought  of  parting  with  our  children  to  such  a 
distance,  the  more  we  dwelt  on  it  the  more  we  saw  the  advantage  of  the  plan, 
and  felt  that  the  thing  was  of  the  Lord,  and  that  we  could  not  say  nay,  especially 
as  the  young  people  of  both  families  were  earnestly  desirous  of  our  acquiescence. 
A  second  summer  at  the  antipodes  after  a  six  weeks'  sea  voyage  was  evidently,  as 
a  matter  of  health,  more  to  be  desired  than  a  winter  amid  London  fogs  ;  while 
the  earnest  Christian  devotedness  and  prayerful  consistency  of  life  of  our  dear 
friend  Mrs.  Reed,  inspired  us  with  perfect  confidence  in  committing  our  treasures 
to  her  care  for  a  time.  So  consent  was  given,  and  outfits  prepared,  (outfits  of 
smaller  size  and  different  character  from  those  which  it  so  often  falls  to  our  lot  to 
provide  !)  and  on  .September  13th,  on  board  the  P.  &  O.  steamship  Ballarat  at 
Cravesend,  we  took  leave,  not  only  of  Mrs.  Reed  and  her  family,  but  of  our  own 
youngest  son  and  daughter. 

*  *  *  *  * 

During  the  month  of  September  we  held  meetings  in  various  parts  of  Scot- 
land ;  at  Wick,  Tain,  Dingwall,  Forres,  Elgin,  Inverness,  Aberdeen,  Dundee,  and 
elsewhere,  seeking  to  deepen  in  the  minds  of  young  Christians  the  sense  of  respoii' 
sibility  to  the  heathen  world,  and  to  call  out  recruits  for  the  missionary  army. 


GARDEN  PARTIES  IN  EAST  LONDON. 

While  the  "West  End  season  is  running  its  course,  we  in  our  far 
east  are  not  without  our  afternoon  teas  and  garden  parties  !  They 
are  wonderfully  different  from  those  of  Kensington  and  Belgravia, 
it  is  true  ;  somewhat  deficient  in  the  presence  of  rank  and  fashion, 
wealth  and  beauty;,  but  marked  possibly  by  quite  as  much  true 
pleasure  and  heartfelt  enjoyment. 

We  judge  of  everything  by  comparison.  Our  grounds  at  Harley 
House  have  a  struggle  for  existence  with  London  fogs  and  smoke, 
and  are  poor,  townified  concerns  at  best ;  when  we  come  up  from 
Cliff,  where  the  vegetation  thrives  and  enjoys  itself  in  the  pure  and 


g6  The  Bibie  Carriage. 

pleasant  breezes  of  the  Peak,  we  look  down  on  them  completely  ! 
But  when  our  visitors  come  to  us  from  the  crowded  courts  and 
narrow  streets  and  dingy  houses  in  which,  alas  !  many  of  them  have 
to  dwell,  they  seem  to  feel  as  if  they  were  obtaining  a  peep  ot 
paradise  !  "  Only  think  now  !  Who  would  ha'  thought  it  ?  Such 
a  place  as  this  here  in  Bow  Road  !  Ain't  it  lovely  now  ?  Why,  'tis 
real  country  !  "  We  often  pity  ourselves  and  our  neighbours  because 
of  the  chemical  vapours  and  unpleasantly  odorous  smokes  that  blow 
over  us  from  the  Stratford  factories  ;  but  our  visitors  remark  on  the 
delight  of  our  "  pure  fresh  air,"  and  one  dear  old  man,  who  had  been 
long  ill,  said  as  if  he  really  meant  it,  "  I  do  believe  this  beautiful 
change  of  air  will  do  me  good,  ma'am  !  " 

As  our  receptions  are  pretty  numerous,  each  party  numbering 
from  one  to  three  hundred,  we  are  glad  to  have  the  college  hall 
or  the  tent  to  fall  back  upon  in  case  of  rain,  though  tea  is  always 
served  in  the  garden  when  fine.  We  entertain  thus,  in  the  course 
of  the  summer,  many  a  mothers'  meeting  besides  our  own,  various 
"classes"  of  lads  and  lasses,  the  little  children  of  our  Sunday 
schools  who  are  too  young  to  be  taken  for  the  "  day  in  the 
country,"  the  mission  hall  adults,  the  police,  the  railway  and  tram 
men,  the  shipbuilders,  etc.  ;  and  we  get  precious  opportunities  ot 
speaking  to  these  men  and  commending  the  gospel  to  their  accept- 
ance on  such  occasions. 

Are  there  not  many  who  might  gather  such  companies  as  these 
in  their  gardens  occasionally,  as  well  as  more  congenial  ones  ?  Is 
it  not  what  our  Master  meant  us  to  do?  Surely  Luke  xiv.  13  is  a 
precept  to  be  obeyed  by  Christ's  disciples. 

The  following  is  also  a  vacation  sketch,  which  we  entitled 

SOWING  THE  SEED ; 

or,  Mr.  Brewster  and  his  Bible  Carriage. 

One  day,  some  five  years  ago,  two  earnest  servants  of  God  were 
seated  in  an  office  in  Manchester,  conferring  together  as  to  the  best 
mode  of  utilizing  for  the  spread  of  the  gospel  in  the  markets  and 
fairs  of  England  a  Bible  carriage,  which  had  been  built  by  one  of 
them  out  of  his  savings,  at  a  cost  of  no  small  amount  of  self-denial. 
lie  felt  sure  that,  if  well  worked,  this  agency  ought  to  prove  a  useful 
and  important  one  ;  but  how  to  get  it  well  worked  ?  that  was  the 
problem  ! 


Henry  Moorliouse.  97 

Bible  carriage  evangelization  is  no  child's  play,  no  easy,  amateur 
kind  of  mission.  It  demands  vigorous  health  and  strength  of  body 
and  mind,  much  business  ability  and  tact,  a  powerful  and  untiring 
voice,  a  popular,  pleasing  manner  and  delivery,  knowledge  of  music 
and  knowledge  of  men,  and  especially  of  the  sort  of  men  who  form 
what  we  call  "  the  masses."  It  demands  patience  and  good  humour, 
cheerful  courage,  and,  above  all,  no  slight  share  of  the  spirit  of 
Christ, — compassion  on  the  ignorant  and  on  those  who  are  out  of 
the  way. 

It  involves  real,  stern  labour  and  physical  fatigue,  much  exposure 
to  all  sorts  of  weather,  perpetual  unsettlement  and  personal  incon- 
venience, and  the  bearing  of  a  good  deal  of  the  offence  of  the  cross. 
It  is  not  therefore,  as  the  friends  in  council  well  knew,  every 
evangelist  who  is  fit  for  the  work  ;  and  though  one  of  them,  the  late 
Henry  Moorhouse,  was  remarkably  fit  himself  in  some  respects,  he 
had  already  ceased  to  be  so  in  point  of  health  and  strength  before 
the  date  of  the  interview  to  which  we  allude.  He  was  already 
feeling  that  his  earthly  house  of  this  tabernacle  must  soon  be  taken 
down. 

A  few  days  previously  the  students  at  Hulme  Cliff  College  had 
dispersed  for  their  autumn  vacation,  which  it  is  understood  shall 
if  possible  be  spent  in  evangelistic  work.  Passing  through  Sheffield, 
Mr.  Brewster  and  his  friend  Mr.  Bartlett  had  heard  of  the  con- 
struction of  this  Bible  carriage,  and  at  once  felt  a  longing  desire  to 
work  in  connection  with  it.  Procuring  the  name  and  address  of 
the  owner,  they  started  for  Manchester,  and  presented  themselves 
at  his  office  just  as  the  discussion  to  which  we  have  alluded  had 
reached  a  conclusion  in  an  arrangement  that  the  original  builder  and 
owner  of  the  carriage  should  sell  it  to  Henry  Moorhouse,  who  should 
be  thenceforth  responsible  for  its  working. 

Mr.  Brewster  introduced  himself  and  told  his  story,  which  was 
listened  to  almost  in  silence,  but  with  close  attention,  by  the  invalid 
but  experienced  clever  and  discerning  evangelist.  "  You're  tired 
and  hungry ;  come  along  and  have  some  lunch,"  at  length  he  said, 
and  led  them  to  a  neighbouring  restaurant.  Then  abruptly,  while 
the  meal  was  in  progress,  he  put  the  startling  question, "  When  could 
you  start  ?  "  The  reply  was,  "  Immediately !  "  "  So  be  it  then  !  " 
and  forthwith  practical  details  were  discussed. 

Moorhouse   explained  to  the  volunteers  how  this  carriage  was 


98        .  Large  Distribution. 

intended  to  reach  the  thousands  who  are  unreached  even  by  special 
services,  tent  and  theatre  meetings,  etc.,  but  who  are  freely  reached 
by  the  "quacks"  and  "cheap  jacks,"  selling  their  nostrums  and 
their  wares  in  the  markets  and  by  the  roadside.  For  hours  together 
the  people  will  crowd  in  successive  groups  around  these  itinerants 
and  their  stalls  or  vans,  and  that  a  profitable  trade  is  done  is  proved 
by  the  fact  of  its  continuance.  If  such  men  can  do  such  work  for  a 
living  for  themselves,  cannot  the  ambassadors  of  Christ  stoop  to  it, 
for  the  sake  of  the  eternal  life  of  many  ? 

The  van  was  quickly  stocked  and  prepared,  and  an  encouraging 
start  was  made  at  Eccles,  near  Manchester.  Time  would  fail  to 
trace  its  history  month  by  month  since  that  day.  Suffice  to  say 
that  the  spirit  of  Henry  Moorhouse  in  heaven  must  rejoice  (if  con- 
scious of  earthly  facts)  at  the  decision  to  which  he  was  led  that  day, 
and  that  both  the  Christian  man  who  built  it,  and  the  Christian  lady 
who  has  kept  the  van  supplied  and  stocked  with  Bibles  and  gospel 
literature,  must  be  glad  and  thankful  on  every  remembrance  of  it ; 
while  our  dear  Brother  Brewster  and  all  who  have  shared  his  arduous 
and  self-denying  labours  will  never  regret  in  eternity  that  they  have 
spent  some  of  the  best  years  of  their  youthful  manhood  in  working 
a  Bible  carriage. 

Mr.  Brewster  never  returned  to  Cliff  and  to  his  studies  !  He 
entered  on  a  more  practical  course  of  training,  and  he  has  graduated 
in  a  nobler  college,  the  great  world  college  of  successful  work.  He 
will  probably  never  be  a  M.A.,  but  he  has  proved  himself  a 
master  of  hearts,  and  been  permitted  to  turn  multitudes  from  dark- 
ness to  light,  and  from  the  power  of  Satan  to  God.  He  may  never 
attain  worldly  distinction,  but  we  have  Divine  authority  for  saying 
that  he  shall  shine  as  the  stars  for  ever  and  ever  ! 

Lingering  sometimes  a  few  days,  and  sometimes  many  weeks,  in 
a  place,  he  has  taken  the  Bible  carriage  to  seventy-four  large  cities 
and  towns,  besides  passing  through  countless  smaller  towns  and 
villages,  from  London  to  Newcastle-on-Tyne. 

The  extent  and  reality  of  the  work  accomplished  may  be  judged 
from  the  fact  that  over  two  and  a  half  millions  of  Bibles,  Testaments, 
gospel  portions  and  books,  Scripture  rolls,  text  cards,  periodicals, 
"  Words  of  Comfort,"  "  Grace  and  Truth,"  "  Blood  of  Jesus,"— two 
and  a  half  millions  01  messages  from  heaven  to  lost  and  ruined 


In  Fairs  and  Markets.  99 

sinners,  have  been  not  given  but  sold,  from  this  van  since  the  day 
that  Mr.  Brewster  took  charge  of  it. 

And  this  is  but  half  its  work.  Day  by  day  to  hundreds,  or 
thousands  as  the  case  may  be,  the  gospel  has  been  preached  and 
sung,  reaching  thus,  it  is  calculated,  about  three  millions  of  people, 
not  the  same  set  over  and  over  again,  but  a  constantly  changing 
audience,  drawn  from  the  classes  who  most  need  to  hear  the  glad 
tidings. 

When  the  van  visits  a  place  the  second  time,  saving  results  from 
the  first  visit  often  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the  evangelists  ;  where 
this  is  not  the  case,  the  seed  must,  from  the  nature  of  the  case, 
remain  to  a  large  extent  bread  cast  upon  the  waters,  to  be  gathered 
after  many  days. 

At  Norwich  late  one  Saturday  night  a  man  partially  intoxicated 
purchased  a  penny  packet  of  books,  saying,  "  They'll  do  to  read 
lying  in  bed  to-morrow."  He  was  a  backslider,  and  God  used  one 
book  to  restore  his  soul.  He  came  to  the  meeting  on  Sunday 
evening  thoroughly  broken  down,  was  led  back  to  Christ,  and  is  now 
in  fellowship  with  a  Christian  Church. 

In  Leeds  market  they  stood  in  a  line  with  the  "quacks"  and 
"  cheap  jacks."  On  one  side  of  them  was  a  Jew  selling  sponges, 
who  heard  the  gospel.  One  day  holding  up  a  small  piece  of  sponge 
he  offered  it  for  "  von  penny."  No  one  buying  it,  he  put  it  into  a 
pail  of  water  by  his  side,  and  squeezing  it  out,  silently  held  it  up 
again.  "  I'll  give  you  a  penny  for  it,"  exclaimed  a  bystander.  "  No 
no,  my  vriend,"  said  the  seller;  "  theesh  men  who  do  breach  from 
dat  carriage  tell  us  dat  ven  a  man  ish  converted  he  ish  shanged. 
Dis  shponsh  ish  converted,  it  ish  shanged;  now  I  shall  vant  two 
pench  for  it."  He  had  heard  and  understood  something  that  had 
been  said  from  the  van,  and  learned  at  any  rate  what  conversion 
meant ! 

A  gentleman  at  Oldham  said :  "  I  know  young  men  who  used  to 
carry  packs  of  cards  in  their  pockets,  but  who  since  this  Bible  van 
came  here  are  carrying  twopenny  Testaments  and  reading  them  too." 

At  Blackpool,  the  northern  Brighton,  the  van  tarried  more  than 
seven  weeks,  and  afterwards  visited  all  the  chief  towns  of  Lancashire. 

Repeated  visits  in  the  summer  have  been  paid  both  to  Blackpool 
and  Yarmouth,  in  both  which  places  a  grand  work  was  done,  im- 
mense crowds  gathering  daily  round  the  van  and  listening  with  the 
deepest  interest. 


ioo  Saturday  Evening  with  the  Bible  Cart. 

After  a  long  tramp  of  twenty-three  miles  one  day,  Mr.  Brewster 
drew  the  van  up  in  the  marketplace  of  the  ancient  minster  city  ot 
York,  and  seeking  out  the  toll  collector  expressed  his  desire  to  sell 
Bibles  in  the  fair.  Catching  sight  of  the  van  the  official  exclaimed 
in  surprised  indignation  :  "  What  on  earth  should  you  bring  that 
great  thing  here  for  ?  Bibles  !  Why,  every  one  in  York  has  a 
Bible  !  You  may  as  well  be  off  with  your  Bible  van  ! "  Meekly 
came  the  modest  reply,  "  If  we  may  have  a  stand,  we  wish  to  stay, 
even  though  we  should  not  sell  a  single  copy."  "  Oh  !  well,  that's 
your  concern  ;  of  course  you  can  have  a  stand  if  you  pay  toll." 

Saturday  evening  came.  The  van  was  opened  and  lit  up.  A  large 
crowd  gathered  immediately.  Who  would  wish  for  a  better  text  to 
preach  from  than  the  Bible  seller  has,  as  he  explains  the  nature, 
contents,  value,  and  effects  of  the  book  he  holds  in  his  hand  ?  A 
rapid  and  eager  demand  sprang  up ;  several  local  Christian  friends 
had  to  be  enlisted  to  help  to  supply  books  to  the  throng  of  out- 
stretched hands.  For  more  than  an  hour  a  brisk  trade  was  done, 
and  at  last  the  toll  collector  appeared,  saying :  "  You  really  must 
stop ;  every  stall-keeper  in  the  market  is  complaining.  You  are 
attracting  all  the  people,  they  are  doing  no  business."  Daily  for 
twelve  weeks  the  evangelists  preached  and  sold  the  gospel  in  this 
city. 

When  Mr.  Moorhouse  in  1880  entered  into  rest,  he  left  the  Bible 
carriage  to  Mr.  Brewster,  on  whom  the  responsibility  of  working  it 
has  since  rested.  One  and  another  have  been  raised  up  from  time 
to  time  to  help  him  ;  his  present  colleague,  Mr.  H.  D.  Hind,  sings 
the  gospel  as  well  as  preaches  it.  The  work  is  carried  on  in  faith  : 
both  the  stocking  of  the  van  and  the  support  of  the  evangelists,  hire 
of  horses,  and  all  other  outlay,  has  to  be  met  by  the  freewill  offerings 
of  such  as  sympathise  with  the  effort.  But  the  Lord  has  supplied 
every  need  so  far,  and  our  brother's  faith  is  strengthened  to  believe 
He  will  still  do  so. 

BUILDING  AGAIN,  OR  BERGER  HALL,  BROMLEY. 

In  1884  it  was  needful  for  us  again  to  invest  in  bricks  and  mortar, 
and  on  this  wise  we  wrote  in  the  report  for  that  year  : 

We  have  just  made  a  new  departure  in  connection  with  the  home  mission 
work  of  the  Institute,  and  must  try  to  enlist  the  prayerful  sympathy  of  our  readers 
for  one  of  our  poor  East  End  districts,  inhabited  by  worthy  but  weary,  toil-worn 
thousands,  who  sec  more  of  the  shady  than  of  the  sunny  side  of  life. 


Bromley  by  Bow,  101 

Bromley  in  Kent  is  a  pretty  and  pleasant  locality,  where  mansions  and  villas 
and  charming  country  residences  abound.  But  Bromley  by  Bow,  E.,  is  a  very 
different  place  !  Poor  and  plebeian,  utterly  uninviting,  covered  with  rows  01 
working-men's  houses,  interspersed  with  gin-shops,  pawnbrokers,  pork-butchers, 
and  fried  fish  stalls,  with  soap  and  candle  factories,  iron  works,  starch  works, 
colour  works,  and  buildings  for  all  sorts  of  industries,  some  of  which  are  anything 
but  fragrant.  Intersected  and  shut  in  by  railroad  lines  and  canals,  low-lying, 
crowded,  comfortless,  with  not  a  field  or  a  flower,  and  scarcely  a  tree  or  a  shrub 
to  be  seen. 

For  many  successive  generations  our  students  have  worked  in  Bromley,  where 
we  have  occupied  three  or  four  different  stations.  One  of  these  was  "the  old 
palace  "  of  King  James,  which  has  of  late  been  a  factory  girls'  home,  instead 
of  a  scene  of  courtly  festivity,  as  in  the  olden  times,  when  it  was  a  royal  hunting 
lodge  for  Epping  Forest.  In  the  garden  of  this  old  palace  our  gospel  tent  for 
summer  use  has  been  pitched. 

While  the  cold  winter  weather  lasted,  and  the  tent  could  not  be  used,  our 
gospel  meetings  had  to  be  confined  to  the  "old  palace"  itself,  to  George-street 
Chapel,  a  building  holding  about  400  in  a  separate  part  of  the  district,  and  to 
Harley  Hall,  where  our  dear  son  conducted  the  Sunday  evening  services  last 
winter,  and  where,  week  by  week,  men  and  women,  weary  and  heavy-laden  with 
sin,  found  their  way  to  the  feet  of  Jesus,  and  received  peace  and  pardon. 

So  greatly  were  these  meetings  blessed  that  the  little  hall  soon  became  too 
small  to  contain  even  the  converts,  to  say  nothing  of  the  congregation.  Those 
Sunday  evening  services  will  never  be  forgotten  by  some  of  us — the  solemn  hush 
that  fell  on  the  crowded  hall  as,  one  after  another,  hard,  toil-worn  hands  were 
lifted  to  ask  for  prayer,  and  rough  men,  and  women  too,  broken  down  with  the 
sense  of  sin  and  need,  would  follow  us  into  the  inquiry  room,  seeking  the  Lord. 

What  a  joy  it  is  to  remember  those  times  now  as  we  look  round  on  the  happy 
faces  of  these  dear  people  and  hear  them  give  bright  and  clear  testimonies  to  the 
saving  strength  of  our  great  Deliverer  !  The  little  hall  being  all  too  strait  for  us, 
we  were  fain  to  return  at  the  earliest  moment  possible  to  our  summer  quarters, 
and  as  soon  as  the  weather  permitted  the  tent  was  re-erected  in  the  garden  behind 
the  old  palace.  It  was  improved  by  a  nice  wooden  floor,  and  a  good  platform 
with  a  sounding-board  overhead  ;  lit  with  gas  and  made  quite  inviting, 'as  a  tem- 
porary substitute  for  a  building.  Thither  we  adjourned  in  the  month  of  April, 
and  though  the  canvas  church  held  three  times  the  number  that  could  be  accom- 
modated in  the  hall,  it  also  was  soon  filled.  Two  rooms  in  the  old  palace  were 
used  as  inquiry  rooms  for  men  and  women  respectively,  and  they  were  constantly 
needed,  for  the  blessing  that  was  given  in  Harley  Hall  equally  attended  the 
meetings  in  the  tent. 

The  men's  Bible-class,  conducted  by  our  daughter,  increased  in  numbers  and 
strength,  so  that  in  little  more  than  six  months  it  had  grown  from  a  dozen  to 
about  a  hundred  members,  many  of  whom  had  been  brought  to  the  Lord,  either 
in  Harley  Hall  or  the  old  palace,  and  were  full  of  zeal  in  His  service. 

Very  often  during  the  spring  and  early  summer  we  were  perplexed  as  to  what 
was  to  be  done  with  the  people  who  had  been  gathered  and  blessed  through  this 
work  when  once  more  the  tent  should  have  to  come  down  this  winter.  To  return 
to  Harley  Hall  was  impossible,  unless  we  were  willing  to  lose  three-fourths  of  the 


102  What  iv as  to  be  Done. 

congregation,  disband  the  workers,  and  restrict  our  influence  for  good  in  a  neigh, 
bourhood  sadly  destitute  of  gospel  agencies. 

Many  a  time  had  we  considered  and  discussed  the  position  of  affairs  without 
seeing  just  what  was  best  to  do.  No  eligible  site  for  a  new  building  was  to  be 
found,  even  if  we  had  been  possessed  of  funds  to  erect  one.  We  had,  it  is  true,  a 
freehold  site  in  Bromley,  on  which  stood  a  small  chapel,  but  it  would  not  half 
hold  the  congregation  at  the  tent,  and  it  afforded  no  sufficient  accommodation  for 
night-school,  Bible-class,  and  other  week-evening  work.  But  it  had  ground  at 
the  back,  and  was  capable  of  enlargement.  Would  it  be  possible  to  transfer  the 
tent  congregation  to  this  place  ?  Some  of  the  men  were  sounded  as  to  this,  and 
at  once  replied,  "  Why,  it  would  suit  most  of  us  better  than  the  present  place  ; 
we  live  around  there,  and  should  find  meetings  so  near  home  handy." 

This  decided  the  question  as  to  the  best  plan  to  adopt.  It  was  clearly  to 
enlarge,  adapt,  and  modernize  the  existing  chapel,  and  to  add  four  or  five  good 
rooms  to  it.  This  would  involve  the  outlay  of  a  considerable  sum,  but  would,  on 
the  other  hand,  save  an  annual  expenditure  in  rents  for  unsatisfactory  mission 
premises,  and  would  provide  a  good  and  permanent  mission  centre  in  a  quarter 
where  it  was  greatly  needed. 

But  it  would  require  at  least  ^"1,500  or  ,£1,600,  and  how  were  we  to  raise  this 
sum  in  addition  to  all  that  our  foreign  missions  demanded,  during  the  summer 
vacation,  when  the  streams  of  Christian  liberality  run  low,  and  when  our  own 
energies  and  strength  were  about  exhausted  ? 

It  seemed  difficult  if  not  impossible.  Yet  we  could  not  bear  to  think  that  the 
fogs  of  November  and  the  frosts  of  January  should  find  our  Bromley  friends  with 
no  better  shelter  than  that  afforded  by  canvas,  and  in  peril  of  dispersion  should 
winter  storms  necessitate  the  striking  of  the  tent.  Besides,  even  the  old  palace, 
in  the  garden  of  which  it  was  standing,  and  without  the  rooms  of  which  we  could 
not  have  carried  on  the  work,  was  to  pass  out  of  our  hands  in  the  autumn,  the 
lease  having  expired,  and  the  building  being  so  very  old  that  we  did  not  care  to 
take  a  new  one.  It  was  evident  that  fresh  quarters  were  absolutely  needed  unless 
the  work  were  to  come  to  an  end,  and  evident  also  that  there  was  no  time  to  lose, 
as  the  erection  of  new  buildings  takes  time. 

While  we  were  still  asking  ourselves  what  was  to  be  done,  we  received  very 
unexpectedly  one  evening  a  visit  from 

A  Deputation  of  a  Dozen  Working  Men 

interested  in  the  mission,  urgently  praying  that  immediate  steps  might  be  taken 
towards  providing  permanent  shelter  for  the  tent  congregation,  and  speaking 
gratefully  of  the  blessing  which  the  neighbourhood  had  reaped  from  the  work 
there.  The  petition  had  only  lain  cue  week  for  signature,  but  had  five  hundred 
names  appended  to  it,  and  would,  so  the  deputation  assured  us,  have  received 
double  the  number  of  signatures  had  there  been  another  week  to  spare  before  we 
left  town. 


"  At  Home  now,  Miss."  103 

We  assured  the  clear  men  that  we  were  as  anxious  as  they  could  be  for  a 
building,  explained  how  we  were  situated,  and  invited  them  to  unite  in  prayer 
that  God  would  help  us  in  the  matter.  Very  earnest  supplications  ascended,  and 
we  parted  full  of  faith  and  hope,  feeling  that  it  must  surely  be  according  to  the 
will  of  God  that  this  thing  should  be  done,  and  done  speedily. 

Note  now  the  goodness  of  the  Lord  in  supplying  the  need  of  His  people  ! 
After  the  men  were  gone,  we  sat  down  that  same  evening  and  told  the  story  of 
their  visit  and  its  object  to  two  friends,  sending  the  petition  itself  to  one  of  them. 
We  explained  that  we  were  at  the  time  too  weary  to  undertake  the  raising  of  a 
large  sum  of  money,  but  suggested  that  by  the  promise  of  a  good  donation  for  the 
purpose  in  the  autumn  they  should  set  us  free  to  build.  We  prayed  over  the 
letters  and  posted  them,  trusting  that,  if  it  were  His  will  that  the  thing  should  be 
done,  God  would  prosper  the  effort.  Within  a  week  of  that  prayer  we  received 
promises  of  over  a  thousand  pounds  for  this  object,  and  felt  free  to  authorize  our 
architect  to  accept  the  contractor's  tender  for  the  work  to  be  executed,  plans  and 
specifications  for  which  we  had  already  procured.  They  were  put  in  hand  at  once, 
and  completed  in  the  middle  of  November. 

Berger  Hall,  Bromley,  as  the  new  building  is  called,  in  remembrance  of 
the  Christian  friend  who  originally  erected  it,  who  afterwards  gave  it  to  us,  and 
who  has  now  helped  liberally  in  its  enlargement,  consists  of  a  large  hall  seating 
about  1,000,  a  smaller  one  adapted  for  300,  two  large  classrooms  to  accommodate 
80  or  100  each,  and  two  smaller  rooms,  together  with  kitchen  arrangements  for 
tea-meetings,  "robin  dinners,"  etc.  It  is  admirably  adapted  for  a  home  mission 
centre,  both  in  locality  and  construction,  and  attracts  the  people  all  the  more 
because  it  has  dropped  its  exclusively  ecclesiastical  character  as  a  "  chapel,"  and 
become  a  homely  "  hall."  Our  daughter  was  accosted  one  day  lately  by  a  nice, 
bright  working  man,  just  outside  the  building,  as  it  was  approaching  completion, 
touching  his  cap,  and  with  a  smile,  he  said,  "  Seems  as  'ow  we  was  soon  to  be  at 
'ome  now,  miss"  ;  and  then,  in  answer  to  the  question  how  he  liked  the  new  name, 
"Like  it?  I  should  think  I  do!  Why,  I  worked  for  Mr.  Berger  for  eighteen 
years  !  " 

The  interest  indeed  of  all  the  dear  men  of  the  Bible-class  in  their  "new  home" 
is  very  keen,  and  argues  much  for  their  future  helpfulness  in  connection  with  the 
work  to  be  carried  on  there. 

On  November  nth  we  gathered,  with  thankful  hearts,  the  members  of  the 
men's  Bible-class  for  their  "first  anniversary  "  meeting.  Plow  good  it  was  to  look 
back  upon  the  year  of  blessing,  of  which  that  gathering  was  the  result  !  One 
after  another  of  those  strong,  earnest  working  men  stood  up  to  testify  to  the  saving 
grace  of  God,  which  had  brought  them  into  peace  and  joy  during  the  past  twelve 
months  ;  the  occasion  itself  was  not  without  fresh  evidences  of  the  same  power, 
for  several  men  at  its  close  were  seeking  the  way  of  salvation,  and  found  it  in 
trusting  Him  by  whom  alone  we  come  to  God. 


104 
OUR  MEN'S  NIGHT-SCHOOL. 

BY    GERALDINE    GUINNESS. 

"  Will  there  be  any  one  there  ?  "  we  said  to  each  other  wonder, 
ingly,  as,  a  little  before  seven  o'clock,  on  a  dreary  autumn  evening, 
late  in  the  month  of  October,  we  mounted  the  wide  wooden  stair- 
case of  the  old  palace.  It  was  the  first  evening  of  our  night-school, 
and  though  the  men  had  seemed  very  pleased  when  it  was  an- 
nounced at  the  Bible-class  on  Sunday,  we  felt  a  little  doubtful 
whether  their  thirst  for  knowledge  was  sufficient  to  bring  them  out 
on  such  a  night. 

The  First  Evening. 

How  pleasant  the  dear  old  room  looked,  with  the  warm  firelight 
glowing  upon  the  quaint  carved  mantelpiece  and  ceiling  !  As  we 
entered,  we  saw  with  pleasure  that  one  man  was  there  already,  sitting 
alone  over  the  fire.  He  was  a  stranger,  with  a  very  pale,  tired  face, 
which  brightened  however  as  we  shook  hands  with  him,  and  gave 
him  a  hearty  welcome.  We  had  only  time  for  a  few  minutes'  chat 
before  the  door  opened,  and  several  others,  amongst  whom  we 
recognised  old  friends,  came  in. 

How  shy  and  awkward  they  were  at  first,  and  how  uncertain  as 
to  what  was  to  happen  to  them  !  To  make  them  feel  at  home  we 
produced  a  roll  of  brightly  coloured  Scripture  prints  which  we  had 
brought  with  us,  and  requested  their  assistance  in  nailing  them  up. 
They  seemed  somewhat  reassured  when  this  was  done,  and  the 
familiar  faces  of  Moses,  David  and  Goliath,  Daniel,  the  prodigal  son, 
and  many  others  looked  down  upon  them  from  each  panel  of  the  old 
wood  wall. 

Then  we  set  to  work.  The  evening  slipped  away  very  quickly,  and 
the  time  soon  came  for  us  to  gather  round  the  fire  for  a  hymn  and 
Bible  talk.  This  was  the  pleasantest  part  of  all,  several  of  those 
present  being  Christians,  and  very  happy  ones  too,  as  their  simple, 
heartfelt  prayers  at  the  end  testified.  A  warm  shake  hands  all 
round,  and  we  separated,  looking  forward  to  our  meeting  the  follow- 
ing week. 

At  the  next  night  school  we  found  our  numbers  were  increased 
from  ten  to  twenty  men,  all  of  whom  were  very  anxious  that  the 
class  should  be  held  twice  instead  of  once  a  week.  We  were  able  to 
arrange  this,    greatly  to  our   own  as  well  as  to  their  satisfaction, 


The  "Roughs."  105 

one  ot  them  exclaiming  on  hearing  the  news,  "Praise  the  Lord, 
miss  ! " 

The  numbers  went  on  increasing,  and  we  began  to  feel  our 
quarters  rather  small.     Just  at  this  time 

Berger  Hall,  our  New  Mission  Centre, 

lower  down  in  Bromley,  was  opened,  and  with  mingled  feelings  of 
pleasure  and  regret  we  took  leave  of  the  "  old  palace,"  where  so 
many  had  been  turned  from  darkness  to  light,  and  transferred  the 
night-school,  among  other  things,  to  the  new  building.  The  two 
large  class-rooms  were  soon  filled,  but  with  the  help  of  a  third  lady 
teacher  we  managed  very  well,  until  a  difficulty  arose. 

Hitherto  we  had  reached  that  more  respectable  class  of  working 
men  who  possess  a  Sunday  suit,  and  appreciate  the  advantages  ot  a 
frequent  use  of  soap  and  water.  But  the  fame  of  our  school  was 
spreading,  and  we  soon  found  ourselves  inundated  by  a  very 
different  set  of  men,  "  natives  "  of  the  lowest  and  poorest  part  ot 
Bromley,  in  which  Berger  Hall  stands. 

On  our  arrival  the  second  night  after  we  had  commenced  our 
work  there,  we  were  somewhat  dismayed  to  find  awaiting  us  in  the 
large  class-room  a  dozen  or  more  of  such  ragged  roughs  as  we  had 
never  come  in  contact  with  before.  They  were  sitting  in  a  group 
round  the  fire,  enjoying  themselves,  to  the  perplexity  of  our  own 
respectable  men,  who  were  holding  themselves  somewhat  aloof,  and 
evidently  wondering  what  would  happen  when  we  came  in.  A 
single  glance  was  sufficient  to  show  us  that  it  was  useless  to  attempt 
to  mix  these  new  scholars  in  the  same  classes  with  our  other  men  ; 
and  as  Ave  had  neither  room  nor  teachers  for  them  that  evening,  we 
were  obliged,  though  very  reluctantly,  to  send  them  away,  retaining 
only  a  few  of  the  more  decent.  Next  evening,  when  in  some  trepi- 
dation we  entered  the  class-room,  we  found  that  not  only  had  all 
the  poor  fellows  returned,  but  they  had  brought  with  them  others 
also,  and  that  moreover  one  of  them  was  quite  drunk.  It  was  very 
difficult  to  dismiss  them  all  again,  and  before  they  went  we  had  a 
long  talk  with  some  of  them,  and  no  less  than  six  signed  the  pledge 
that  night,  and  they  did  it  earnestly  and  prayerfully ;  amongst  them 
was  the  man  who  had  come  in  the  worse  for  drink. 

Feeling  that  these  men  had,  by  their  very  poverty  and  need,  a 
strong  claim  upon  us,  and  that  we  could  not  refuse  to  help  them,  we 
decided  that  we  must  manage  a  separate  night-school  for  them,  and 


io6  "Guess  there s  been  Artists  here!' 

before  they  left  we  promised  to  them  to  do  so,  and  arranged  the 
evening  they  were  to  come. 

And  they  did  come,  more  than  twenty  of  them  that  first  night ! 
Rough,  ragged,  and  dirty  though  they  were,  we  soon  found  out  that, 
despite  the  stand-off  and  almost  defiant  manner  which  so  often 
accompanies  the  hard  struggle  with  an  unsympathetic  world  which 
such  have  to  make,  they  had  warm,  grateful  hearts,  which  responded 
at  once  to  the  loving  interest  we  could  not  help  feeling  in  them. 

The  ice  took  some  time  to  thaw  however  !  Poor  fellows  !  it  spoke 
sadly  for  the  lovelessness  of  their  lives,  that  they  received  our  over- 
tures at  first  with  a  kind  of  suspicious,  resentful  surprise,  which 
plainly  showed  that  our  conduct  and  its  motives  was  a  mystery  to 
them  ;  this  soon  changed  however  to  a  pathetically  wistful  appre- 
ciation of  what  they  seemed  to  feel  was  "  too  good  to  be  true." 

Little  did  we  guess  that  first  evening  that  many  of  our  new 
scholars,  who  seemed  so  grateful  and  so  easily  led,  were  amongst 
the  worst  characters  of  Bromley,  renowned  for  their  desperate  lives. 
We  heard  afterwards  that  it  would  be  hard  to  tell  how  many  times 
some  of  these  very  men  had  been  in  prison. 

The  next  evening  at  the  regular  night-school  we  were  con- 
gratulated on  our  safety  by  two  of  our  "  respectable  "  men  with 
undisguised  pleasure  :  "  We  do  feel  so  thankful,  miss,  as  'ow  you 
didn't  have  no  disturbance  last  night.  Tom  and  me,  we  didn't  feel 
comfortable  about  your  bein'  alone  with  those  fellows,  so  after  work 
we  just  cleaned  up  a  bit  and  come  round  to  watch  on  the  stairs  in 
case  there  would  be  a  row,  which  we  was  expectin'  of,  miss,"  It 
was  on  asking  the  reason  of  this  kind,  but,  as  we  thought,  needless 
care,  that  we  were  enlightened  as  to  the  lives  and  characters  of  our 
apparently  gentle  and  tractable  "  roughs." 

We  keep  the  two  classes  distinct  during  school-time,  but  unite 
them  for  the  address  at  the  close.  The  plan  meets  with  the  warm 
approval  of  our  Christian  men,  who  are  delighted  to  help  us  reach 
their  hitherto  neglected  neighbours.  We  furnish  all  who  desire  it 
with  a  cup  of  coffee  and  a  slice  of  bread  and  butter  for  a  penny  at 
the  close  of  the  evening's  engagements. 

It  was  pleasant  to  see  the  grateful  surprise  with  which  our  efforts 
to  render  the  hall  cheerful  and  home-like  were  greeted.  The  pretty 
appearance  of  the  room,  with  its  red  table-cloths,  bright  pictures,  and 
glowing  firelight,  elicited  strong  expressions  of  approval.  "Well, 
miss,"  said  one,  "it  do  seem  as  'ow  you  means  to  make  a  real  'ome 


"  One  Meal  in  Two  Days.  107 

'ere  for  us  working  men  ";  and  another  remarked  with  an  emphatic 
and  appreciative  nod,  "  Guess  there's  been  artists  here  to-night." 

About  sixty  remained  behind  for  supper  that  evening,  and  this 
gave  a  capital  opportunity  for  conversation.  Very  interesting  were 
the  talks  we  had  with  some  of  the  men  as  they  sat  about  at  their  ease, 
disposing  of  the  good  hot  coffee  and  bread  and  butter.  That  first 
evening  we  made  them  our  guests,  and  charged  nothing  for  the 
supper. 

One  little  group  especially  attracted  attention  by  their  evident 
enjoyment  of  this  unexpected  meal.  In  response  to  some  expres- 
sions of  kindly  interest,  one  of  them,  a  fine-looking  young  fellow  ot 
about  twenty-three,  said,  "  Well,  miss,  it's  'ard  times  with  us  now  ; 
'tain't  often  we  gets  a  meal  like  this.  My  mate  there  can  tell  you 
the  same,  for  I  know  he's  pretty  'ard  up,  worse  than  I  am  myself." 
The  "  mate  "  indicated,  drawing  his  chair  a  little  nearer,  remarked  : 
"  It's  quite  true  what  he's  a-sayin'  of,  miss.  I  don't  generally  manage 
to  get  enough  victuals  for  more  than  one  meal  in  tivo  days,  miss." 

Poor  L !     He  looked  like  it,  with  his  thin,  pale  face  and 

despairing,  hunted  expression  !  Another  told  how  he  had  been  out 
of  work  for  more  than  thirteen  weeks,  and  when  asked  how  he 
managed  to  live,  said,  "  My  sister  that's  married,  she  gives  me  a  crust 
now  and  then,  and  I  gets  along  some'ow."  Poor  fellows  !  our  hearts 
went  out  to  them  in  earnest  longing  that  we  might  be  enabled  to 
bring  some  brightness  into  their  sad  lives,  as  well  as  to  lead  their 
wandering  feet  into  the  way  of  peace! 

P was  there  again  that  night,  the  man  who  had  come  in  on  a 

previous  occasion  quite  tipsy,  and  who  had  then  signed  the  pledge. 
It  was  delightful  to  see  him  looking  so  much  better  already,  and  to 
hear  his  earnestly  repeated  assurance  that  "  he  would  keep  steady  if 
he  anyways  could" ;  and"  miss,"  he  added,  "if  I  could  tide  myselt 
over  Saturday  night,  just  from  six  o'clock  till  ten,  I  am  sure  it  would 
be  all  right."  This  remark  of  course  led  us  to  think  whether  it 
would  be  possible  to  hold  a  night-school  on  Saturday,  thrice  instead 
of  twice  a  week,  and  also  let  the  men  come  at  six  instead  of  seven 
on  Saturday  evenings — the  time  of  greatest  danger  to  them.  By  the 
following  week  we  had  arranged  this,  and  were  amply  rewarded  by 
the  gratitude  of  those  who  availed  themselves  of  the  open  doors. 

P was  one  of  the  first  to  arrive.     When  questioned  as  to  how 

he  managed  to  keep  steady  on  Saturday  evening  last  (when  there 
was  no  night-school),   he  answered,    "  Well,   you  see,   miss,  I  had 


Io8  Uncomfortable  Homes. 

nowheres  to  go,  and  so  as  I  was  afeared  of  being  tempted  into  one  of 
them  public-'ouses,  I  went  to  a  theatre  instead,  but  I  didn't  like  it, 
nohow,  miss!  "  Alas  for  our  poor  brothers,  when  their  choice  lies 
between  the  theatre,  the  "  public,"  and  the  one-roomed  family 
home  ! 

That  first  Saturday  night  all  the  men  went  into  the  prayer-meeting 
in  the  large  hall  after  school  was  over,  where  a  bright,  earnest  gospel 
address  was  given.  To  many  of  them  the  glad  tidings  seemed 
really  new,  and  several  were  deeply  impressed,  as  we  found  out  at 
coffee  afterwards. 

That  evening  commenced  a  blessed  soul-saving  work,  which  has, 
thank  the  Lord  !  been  going  on  in  the  night-school  ever  since.  How 
unspeakably  it  has  gladdened  our  hearts  to  see  one  after  another  ot 
these  dear  men  brought,  not  only  to  sign  the  pledge  and  give  up 
drink,  but,  far  better,  to  take  Jesus  as  their  Saviour  and  great 
Deliverer !  As  we  write  this  many  well-known  names  Hash  through 
our  minds — names  that  are  now,  we  trust,  written  in  the  Lamb's 
book  of  life. 

Great  Need  of  a  Coffee-Palace. 

The  effect  of  this  night-school  has  already  been  felt  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood. Nearly  two  hundred  men  are  now  on  the  books,  and  the 
average  attendance  is  about  ninety.  Some  of  the  men  tell  us  that 
on  night-school  evenings  the  neighbouring  public-house  is  nearly 
emptied  of  its  customers,  and  that  the  landlord  wishes,  in  no 
measured, terms,  that  "  Berger  Hall  "  had  never  been  opened  !  We, 
for  our  part,  greatly  wish  that  his  house  might  be  closed,  or  at  any 
rate  converted  into  a  coffee-palace  ! 

Bromley,  which  has  a  population  of  sixty-four  thousand  souis,  does 
not,  as  far  as  we  know,  possess  one  of  these  helpful  and  highly 
appreciated  places. 

On  every  side  public-houses,  brilliantly  lighted  and  well-warmed, 
stand  invitingly  easy  of  access;  but  if  a  man  has"  turned  teetotaler" 
and  will  not  avail  himself  of  these,  there  is  no  resort  for  him  but  the 
cold,  damp,  miserable  street-corner. 

"  Why  does  he  not  go  home  ?  "  Well,  we  asked  one  man  whom 
we  knew,  and  whom  we  found  one  evening  lounging  suspiciously 
outside  a  public-house,  just  that  question,  and  the  reply  was,  "  Well, 
miss,  you  see,  it's  just  this  ;  mother,  she's  always  a-jawin'  of  me,  cos 
1  can't  get  no  work,  and  1  can't  stand  it,  so  1  come  out  here.     But  I 


The  Effect  oj  Externals.  T09 

ain't  a-been  inside."  The  lack  of  work  so  severely  felt  anion"  these 
men  at  times  means  lack  of  daily  bread,  and  what  husband  or 
father  could  bear  a  home  where  the  mother  and  little  ones  are  pining 
for  food  ! 

We  should  gladly  open  coffee  and  cocoa-rooms  had  we  the  funds 
meanwhile  we  have  fitted  up,  as  a  little  earnest  of  good  things  to 
come,  one  detached  room  at  Berger  Hall  for  the  purpose.  It  will 
accommodate  twenty  or  thirty  men  at  a  time,  and  has  been  placed 
under  the  management  of  one  of  our  Christian  men,  who  has  volun- 
teered to  conduct  it  at  his  own  risk. 

Looks  and  expressions  of  delight  followed  the  announcement  that 
we  were  going  to  open  even  this  little  coffee  and  reading-room. 
"  It's  just  what  we've  been  a-wantin'  of,  miss,  and  'twill  do  a  deal  of 
good,"  said  the  men,  and  we  believe  that  it  will  be  a  real  comfort 
and  help  to  them,  small  as  it  is. 

But  will  not  some  of  our  friends  who  "dwell  in  ceiled  houses," 
and  can  secure  either  privacy  or  society  as  they  please,  help  to  pro- 
vide a  larger  and  better  place  where  their  poorer  brothers  who  want 
to  shun  evil  ways  and  bad  companions  may  safely  spend  an  evening 
hour  in  comfort?  Coarse  and  rough,  and  often  very  hard  is  their 
day's  work — when  they  get  it,  and  pitiful  and  depressing  in  the 
extreme  is  their  unsuccessful^  quest  of  it,  when  none  is  to  be  had  ! 
There  is  a  grain  of  comfort  in  turning  into  a  warm  and  well-lighted 
coffee-palace,  even  if  a  man  has  not  a  penny  to  pay  for  a  cup  of 
coffee !  But  there  is  more,  there  is  deliverance  for  the  time  from 
temptation,  and  there  is  a  kindly  sympathy  from  fellow  toilers,  and, 
it  may  be,  Christian  love  and  counsel.  What  are  these  worth  to  the 
discouraged,  heart-wearied  men  with  whom  we  have  to  deal  ? 

A  Later  Sketch.     By  E.  F. 

It  was  in  the  fog  and  gloom  of  a  raw  October  evening  that  we 
first  made  a  sketch  of  our  men's  night  school,  then  in  its  infancy. 
More  than  eight  months  have  passed  since  that  time,  bringing  us 
to  bright  summer  days,  and  the  long,  warm  evenings  of  July.  With 
what  different  feelings  we  can  now  write  about  the  school,  after 
months  of  varied  experience — of  shadow  and  sunshine,  disappoint- 
ment and  success  !  If  these  months  have  robbed  us  of  the  eager, 
expectant  confidence  with  which  we  began  the  work,  it  has  only 
been  to  bestow  some  "  better  thing." 

Many  have  been  the  lessons  acquired  in  our  night-school,  where 

H 


1 1  n  The  Night  ScJwoi. 

not  only  the  men,  but  their  teachers  too,  have  been  learners.  The 
former  have  made  much  progress  in  their  simple  studies ;  and  we, 
through  the  Lord's  mercy,  have  been  taught  precious  lessons  also — 
lessons  as  to  the  weakness  of  human  purpose,  the  helplessness  of  the 
unsaved,  the  terrible  tenacity  and  subtle  strength  of  sin;  ay,  and 
something  too  of  the  omnipotence  of  Divine  goodness  and  the  reality 
of  Divine  help.  We  have  learnt  to  say  with  a  deeper  dependence, 
"  Except  the  Lord  build  the  house,  they  labour  in  vain  that  build 
it,"  and  to  believe  with  a  more  rooted  faith  in  the  wide  and  ever- 
lasting love  of  God.  Truly  there  has  been  One  in  our  midst,  of 
whom  we  can  say,  with  Job,  "  Who  teacheth  like  Him  ?  " 

The  following  jottings  will  give  our  readers  a  little  idea  of  the 
working  of  the  school,  and  will  serve  to  show  that  in  it  the  men  have 
gained  something  more  than  mere  book  knowledge. 


It  is  Tuesday  evening,  and  everything  is  going  on  steadily.  All 
the  classes  are  full,  and  teachers  and  pupils  alike  bright  and  busy. 
As  we  take  a  leisurely  survey  of  the  interested,  attentive  groups,  we 
are  startled  by  hearing  a  peal  of  good-humoured  laughter  from  the 
front  of  the  hall.  Going  up  to  the  quarter  whence  it  proceeds,  we 
find  ourselves  by  the  first  class,  whose  members — about  eighteen 
intelligent,  respectable  men — are  seated  in  a  circle  round  their 
teacher,  with  the  exception  of  one,  more  forward  than  the  rest, 
who  is  sitting  apart,  intent  on  a  Latin  Principia.  A  series  of  ques- 
tions on  the  subject  in  hand  are  going  rapidly  round,  and  are  being 
as  rapidly  answered  by  the  class,  who  evidently  have  their  wits  about 
them.  Ah  !  we  have  found  out  the  cause  of  the  laughter.  One  poor 
unfortunate,  who  was  wool-gathering  when  his  question  came,  has 
answered  very  mal  a  propos,  and  has  paid  the  penalty  of  his  blunder 
by  being  well  laughed  at  by  the  rest,  and  corrected  too  !  They  are 
quick,  these  men,  and  there  is  evidently  a  spirit  of  good-natured 
emulation  among  them,  which  helps  forward  the  work.  Now  they 
turn  their  eyes  to  the  blackboard,  across  which  the  teacher  has 
written  in  very  large  letters  the  single  word  "Why?"  The  men 
smile  and  nudge  each  other,  and  one,  bolder  than  the  rest,  says, 
"  You  are  fond  of  that  word,  aren't  you,  miss  ?  " 

"  Yes,  why  am  I  ?  " 

"  Because  you  want  us  to  think  before  we  answer,  and  not  to  have 
opinions  we  can't  give  reasons  for." 


Separate  Bible  Classes.  1 1 1 

"  Exactly  ;  now,  G."  (G.  is  by  no  means  the  most  thoughtful  in 
the  class),  "  can  you  tell  me  your  reason  for  the  answer  you  gave  to 
my  last  question  ?  "  G.,  whose  opinions  are  not  infrequently  quite 
unsupported  by  any  reason  whatever,  looks  dubious  for  some 
moments,  then  says,  "  It  wouldn't  be  any  use,  miss,  for  you  would 
only  ask  me  why  that  was  my  reason."  This  raises  another  laugh, 
and  half  a  dozen  volunteer  a  correct  answer. 

A  simple  talk — to  which  the  men  listen  eagerly — on  the  nature  of 
the  reasoning  faculty  and  the  value  of  asking  "  why,"  with  practical 
illustrations,  follows ;  then  books  are  brought,  and  the  class  is  soon 
absorbed  in  an  interesting  work  on  ancient  history.  But  we  must 
not  linger  here,  or  stop  to  watch  them  at  the  next  lesson,  which 
consists  of  some — to  them — puzzling  problems  in  elementary  arith- 
metic, but  take  a  look  round  the  room.  The  lowest  class  is  struggling 
over  "a,t — at,"  "i,t — it";  others  are  doing  dictation,  reading,  writ- 
ing, or  arithmetic.  If  we  wait  long  enough,  v/e  shall  hear  a  little  bell 
tinkle,  then  a  hymn  is  sung,  and  each  class  settles  down  for  twenty 
minutes'  study  of  the  word  of  life. 

We  find  this  plan  of  separate  Bible-classes  much  better  than  the 
old  one  of  giving  an  address  to  the  whole  school,  as  each  teacher 
knows  the  various  members  of  her  own  class,  and  to  a  certain  extent 
their  needs,  difficulties,  and  temptations.  These  quiet,  earnest  little 
talks  over  the  Bible  have  proved  to  be  truly  golden  opportunities  of 
reaching  the  hearts  of  the  dear  men.  How  many  have  said  to  us 
lately,  as  we  have  subsequently  had  the  joy  of  pointing  them  to 
Christ,  "  I  have  been  unhappy,  miss,  about  my  sins,  and  wanting 
something  better,  ever  since  I  came  to  the  night-school "  !  Many 
of  the  men,  of  course,  are  Christians,  and  we  find  that  the  word 
spoken  to  them  oftens  stirs  up,  first  a  curious  interest,  and  then  a 
great  longing  in  the  hearts  of  those  who  are  as  yet  strangers  to  God. 
Prayer  follows,  then  coffee  and  personal  conversation,  both,  of  which 
are  very  much  appreciated,  as  we  see  by  the  bright  faces  of  the  men. 

"A  stranger  has  come  to  see  you,  miss,  about  the  emigration ;  he's 
a-standing  at  the  door."  So  I  went  down  to  the  door  and  brought 
him  in,  a  nice,  steady-looking  working  man. 

He  had  never  been  in  Berger  Hall  before,  and  knew  nothing  about 
our  night-school,  so  his  surprise  and  admiration  were  extreme  when 
he  saw  the  large  hall,  with  its  red-covered  tables,  and  happy  groups 
of  men  all  hard  at  work. 


112  Conversions. 

He  was  a  painter  by  trade,  but  had  long  been  unable  to  obtain 
regular  employment.  At  last  he  made  up  his  mind  to  seek  a  new 
home  for  his  young  wife  and  children  in  Australia,  where  one  of  his 
brothers,  also  a  painter,  was  settled  and  doing  well.  It  was  with  real 
pleasure  we  were  able  to  go  into  the  matter  with  him,  and  put  him 
in  the  way  of  accomplishing  this  desirable  object. 

When  we  had  finished  our  business,  he  rose  to  go,  asking  it 
he  might  come  the  next  evening  and  join  the  night-school.  This 
we  gladly  agreed  to,  and  he  has  been  most  regular  in  coming  ever 
since. 

One  night,  a  week  or  two  after,  he  brought  in  with  him  one  of  his 
mates,  a  respectable,  good-looking  man,  who  wished  to  learn  to  read. 
We  welcomed  him  warmly,  and  he  was  soon  quite  at  home  in  our 
midst.  He  soon  interested  us  greatly  by  his  earnestness  and  evident 
longing  for  better  things.  An  opportunity  for  conversation  occurred 
one  evening  soon  after  he  joined  us,  and  we  were  enabled  to 
point  him  simply  and  clearly  to  Christ.  Our  Lord's  words,  "  And  I, 
if  I  be  lifted  up,  will  draw  all  men  unto  Me,"  were  fulfilled  in  this 
case.  It  was  just  that.  R.  was  as  ignorant  as  he  could  be  of  the 
wonderful  way  of  salvation  !  He  said  he  had  not  been  in  a  place  of 
worship  for  more  than  twenty  years,  and  had  never  prayed  since  he 
was  a  little  child  at  his  mother's  knee.  The  glad  tidings  were  to 
him  a  revelation,  and  one,  he  felt,  that  suited  his  need.  So  in 
simplest  faith  he  accepted  the  Saviour,  and  went  away  rejoicing  in 
the  sweet  sense  of  pardon  and  peace. 

A  few  weeks  after  this  another  stranger  found  his  way  to  the 
night-school ;  a  serious,  sensible-looking  man  of  about  thirty  years 
of  age.  He  joined  the  first  class,  and  listened  to  what  was  going  on 
with  very  evident  appreciation.  We  were  speaking  that  evening  in 
the  Bible-class  of  the  one  great  difference  between  the  Christian  and 
the  non-Christian — Christ  in  the  heart — how  it  transforms  a  man  and 
glorifies  life.  This  theme  touched  a  chord  in  the  hearts  of  several 
men  in  the  class,  who  responded  to  what  was  said  with  much  warmth 

and  sincerity.     At  this  juncture  our  new  friend  M asked  leave 

to  speak  a  few  words,  and  it  being  readily  granted,  he  faced  the 
class,  and  said  very  earnestly  : 

"It's  just  this  that  I  want;  just  this  that  brought  me  here  to-night. 

It's  some  weeks  now  since  my  two  mates  B ■  and  R have 

been  coming  here,  and  I  can't  make  them  out,  they  are  so  changed. 
I  never  hear  them  swear  now,  and  they  are  altogether  different. 


Turning  over  a  New  Leaj.  113 

am  here  to-night  to  find  out  what  they  have  got,  and  to  get  it  too  it 
possible." 

How  our  hearts  thanked  the  Lord  as  we  heard  him  !  In  the  quiet 
talk  we  had  together  afterwards,  he  told  us  with  tears  in  his  eyes 
that  he  wanted  to  be  a  Christian  more  than  anything  else  in  the 
world.  As  we  showed  him  how,  through  the  marvellous  love  of 
Christ,  this  was  blessedly  possible  for  him  that  night,  he  broke  down, 
and,  with  a  deep  realization  of  his  own  unworthiness,  came  to  the 
Cross,  and  found  what  he  needed  at  the  feet  of  Jesus.  How  his  face 
shone  as  he  rose  from  his  knees  !  As  we  pointed  him  to  the  words, 
"  Who  loved  me  and  gave  Himself  for  me,"  with  other  similar  pas- 
sages, he  said  several  times  very  earnestly  and  wonderingly,  "  O 
miss,  I  have  often  read  all  this  before  ;  but  to-night  the  texts  seem 
so  different  somehow  ;  I  can't  understand  it  ! " 

Thus  we  have  very  specially  to  thank  the  Lord  for  the  influence 
the  night-school  has  been  gaining  during  the  last  month  or  two  in 
Bromley  and  the  neighbourhood,  and  that  it  is  getting  to  be  known 
as  a  place  where  spiritual  blessing  may  be  sought  and  found. 

The  first  time  we  saw  S at  Berger  Hall  was  about  two  months 

ago.  We  were  surprised  to  learn  that  the  bright,  respectable,  manly 
fellow  before  us  was  just  out  of  prison,  where  he  had  been  for  many 
weeks.  He  told  us  that  whilst  there  the  chaplain  had  continually 
read  and  prayed  with  him,  and  just  before  he  left  greatly  surprised 
him  by  saying,  "  You  will  thank  God  yet  that  ever  you  came  here." 

"I  didn't  believe  him  then,  miss,"  he  added;  "but  I  see  now  what 
he  meant." 

The  disgrace  of  being  there,  the  misery  it  brought  on  his  wife  and 
children,  above  all,  the  terrible  consciousness  of  sin  that  had  haunted 
him  all  these  weeks,  and  which,  under  the  good  chaplain's  ministra- 
tions became  insupportable,  had  brought  him  at  last  to  a  point,  and 
he  was  ready,  like  the  prodigal  son,  to  "  arise  and  go  to  his  Father." 

"  I  came  here  to-night,  miss,"  he  said,  "  to  turn  over  a  new  leaf, 
and  to  leave  the  old  life  behind  me.  I  have  been  miserable  for  some 
time  now,  and  can't  endure  it  any  longer.  If  it  had  been  twelve 
miles  here,  I  would  have  come."  There  was  something  in  his  earnest 
voice  and  honest  face  and  manner  that  convinced  us  of  the  reality 
of  his  purpose,  and  we  felt  that,  ignorant  as  he  was  as  to  how  he  was 
to  leave  the  old  life  and  start  a  new,  there  was  nothing  to  hinder 
him  from  doing  so  before  he  left  the  hall  that  evening.  Through 
the  Lord's  goodness  he  was  enabled  before  we  parted  to  put  himself 


ii4  "Struggling  up  hill,  not  Running  down." 

into  the  hands  of  his  Saviour  for  forgiveness  and  life  and  power. 
An  evening  or  two  afterwards  he  brought  his  wife,  who  with  equally 
glad  and  simple  faith  received  Christ.  They  are  now,  according  to 
the  testimony  of  those  who  know  them  well  and  by  their  own  con- 
fession, "new  creatures  in  Christ  Jesus." 

Some  months  ago,  as  we  were  reading  the  "  Pilgrim's  Progress  " 
with  one  of  the  night-school  men,  we  came  to  a  picture  representing 
Christian  running  full  speed  downhill,  away  from  his  jeering  com- 
panions and  his  weeping  family,  who  would  fain  detain  him,  towards 
the  Celestial  City. 

H an  'earnest,  intelligent  man,  who  had  tried  hard  for  some 

time  to  lead  a  Christian  life,  looked  gravely  at  it  for  a  moment,  then 
said  sorrowfully,  "  Ah !  miss,  they  have  made  a  mistake  here.  He 
should  be  struggling  up  hill,  not  running  down  /" 

Poor  fellow  !  he  had  learnt  that  much  by  bitter  experience  !  On 
one  occasion,  though  out  of  work,  and  dependent  in  measure  for 
support  on  the  kindness  of  those  of  his  mates  who  were  more  fortu- 
nate than  himself,  he  signed  the  pledge,  threw  up  his  old  companions, 
and  struggled  on  bravely  alone  for  many  weeks,  in  the  midst  of  much 
difficulty  and  many  temptations.  But  at  last  absolute  starvation  stared 
him  in  the  face,  and  driven  to  despair  by  four  days'  vain  tramp  in 
search  of  work,  during  which  time  he  had  hardly  tasted  any  food, 
with  no  home,  no  shelter,  and  no  friend, — cold,  wet,  miserable, 
hungry,  hopeless — he  yielded  to  the  temptation  of  a  former  mate 
and  entered  a  public-house,  where  he  was  treated  gratis  to  several 
pints  of  beer.  His  word  once  broken,  and  the  fatal  step  taken, 
further  progress  in  the  same  path  was  inevitable.  The  next  time  we 
saw  him  he  confessed  with  mingled  shame  and  despair  the  sad  story 
of  his  failure  and  its  cause,  adding,  in  tones  of  such  bitter  disappoint- 
ment as  made  our  hearts  ache,  "  O  miss,  I  did  pray  to  God  and 
trust  Him  to  keep  me ;  but  He  didn't,  and  it's  hard  work  living  on 
nothing  but  faith  !  " 

Hard  work  indeed  !  What  if  our  faith  were  similarly  tried  !  Would 
it  stand  the  test  ? 

We  are  glad  to  say  that  H.j  who  was  far  too  independent  to  take 
a  farthing  from  us  that  he  had  not  earned,  has  now  found  constant 
employment,  and  is  keeping  sober  and  steady. 


Mothers'  Meetings.  1 1 5 

A  WINTER  AFTERNOON  IN  BROMLEY. 

How  quickly  the  days  fly  by  !  This  is  Wednesday  already,  and 
the  afternoon  for  our  mothers'  meeting  in  Bromley.  It  is  miserably 
cold  and  foggy  out  of  doors,  and  very  uninviting;  but  the  poor  dear 
women  will  assemble  all  the  more  numerously  on  this  account,  so 
we  must  not  be  daunted.  A  brisk  walk  of  about  a  mile  brings  us  to 
our  destination,  down  in  one  of  the  poorest  and  most  crowded  parts 
of  the  great  east  of  London.  On  the  way  we  pass  Harley  Hall,  in 
the  schoolroom  of  which  our  factory  girls'  classes  are  held  three 
nights  in  the  week.  These  classes  have  been  well  attended  lately, 
and  some  of  the  dear  girls  have  been  got  away  out  of  London  alto- 
gether to  a  quiet  home  in  the  country,  where  they  are  being  trained 
for  domestic  service. 

Of  all  the  unfavourable  positions  in  which  a  young  Christian  girl 
could  be  placed,  surely  none  could  be  worse  than  that  of  these  poor 
factory  hands  !  Some  of  our  friends,  accustomed  to  the  same  class 
in  Scotland  or  in  Lancashire,  still  more  those  acquainted  with  "  the 
young  ladies  of  Lowell  "  (Massachusetts),  have  ideas  of  factory  girls 
differing  widely  from  our  own  !  Whether  the  difference  rise  from 
the  lower  wages  earned  by  the  young  women  in  these  parts,  or  from 
the  lower  condition  of  society  from  which  they  come,  or  from  the 
excessively  unfavourable  surroundings  of  this  crowded  neighbour- 
hood, we  will  not  say ;  but  it  is  a  fact  that  our  factory  girls  down 
here,  who  number  many  many  thousands,  astonish  our  visitors  by 
their  words  and  ways,  and  require  no  small  tact  to  manage.  We 
love  many  of  them  dearly  however,  and  have  found  a  warm  and 
glowing  return  of  affection  from  them.  But  they  are  all  busy  with 
their  daily  toil  at  this  hour  ;  not  till  after  six  will  they  come  throng- 
ing in  to  their  evening  class.  For  the  present,  it  is  not  with  the 
bright,  boisterous,  noisy,  merry,  mischievous  young  things  we  have 
to  do  ;  but  with  weary,  careworn,  anxious,  and  often  sorely  suffering 
mothers,  to  whom  kindly  sympathy  of  another  kind  is  however 
equally  welcome. 

The  fog  seems  to  be  thicker  here  in  these  dark  little  streets.  How 
the  gaslights  in  the  public-houses  flare  out !  and  what  numbers  of 
children  are  swarming  everywhere  !  even  this  weather  cannot  keep 
them  at  home.  Poor  little  pets  !  Their  only,  nursery,  their  best 
playground,  is — the  street! 

Here  is  the  chapel  at  last ;  we  must  go  in   by  the  schoolroom 


n6  The   Value  oj  Sympathy. 

door.  What  a  bright,  pleasant  contrast  the  room  is,  with  its  warm 
fire  and  cheerful  lights,  to  the  dismal  streets  outside  !  No  wonder 
the  poor  women  like  to  come  in  for  a  little  rest  and  change.  There 
must  be  over  sixty  of  them  here  to-day. 

Many  of  the  houses  they  leave  are  sad  enough.  Often  even  in 
this  wintry  weather  we  find  them  with  no  fire,  no  food,  and  the  hus- 
band ill  or  out  of  work  week  after  week.  If  this  cold  continues  we 
must  give  them  a  bun  and  a  cup  of  tea  next  Wednesday.  It  is  a 
real  pleasure  to  do  this,   or  they  seem  to  enjoy  it  so  much. 

Our  meeting  here  lasts  for  nearly  two  hours.  Mutual  greetings 
and  friendly  inquiries  after  "  baby  "  come  first ;  and  then  when  the 
money  has  been  taken  in,  and  the  work  given  out,  we  read  aloud 
some  short  temperance  story,  or  one  of  Power's  capital  tracts.  But 
the  best  part  of  the  meeting  comes  when  the  reading  is  over  and 
the  work  folded  up,  for  then  we  join  in  singing  some  bright  hymn, 
the  Bible  is  brought  out,  and  a  passage  read  from  its  lamiliar  page. 
And  while  they  listen  to  the  old,  old  story  which  always  seems  to 
come  as  though  it  were  new,  and  as  we  tell  them  about  that  home 
where  there  is  neither  sin  nor  sorrow,  how  many  sad  and  weary 
aces  seem  to  brighten,  though  some  eyes  fill  with  tears  !  After  the 
meeting  is  closed  with  a  few  words  of  prayer,  we  can  go  in  amongst 
the  women  and  talk  to  them  while  they  linger,  and  find  out  much 
about  their  hearts  and  homes  and  circumstances.  They  always  seem 
so  glad  of  a  sympathetic  listener,  and  any  little  counsel  or  cheer. 
Many,  many  sad  cases  of  distress  we  meet  in  this  way,  and  it  is  our 
joy  to  be  able  to  help  not  a  few.  But  best  of  all  we  are  sure  that, 
in  this  as  well  as  in  our  similar  meetings  elsewhere,  there  are  those 
whose  hearts  have  been  brightened  in  the  midst  of  their  sorrow  and 
care  by  acquaintance  with  the  love  and  sympathy  of  the  best  ot 
friends.  Few,  even  in  this  suffering  world,  more  need  the  comfort 
of  a  "  very  present  help  in  trouble,"  a  sympathising  High  Priest  who 
has  grace  to  help  in  time  of  need,  than  the  poor  mothers  of  East 
London. 


AN  EVENING  WITH  THE  HARLEY  HOUSE  MEN  IN 
EAST  LONDON. 

Our  London  students  are  occupied  with  mental  work  daily  till  five 
p.m.  Then  they  close  their  books  and  turn  from  the  theoretical  to 
the  practical,  from  study  to  soul  seeking. 


An  Evening  with  Harley  House  Men.  1 17 

After  tea  and  some  spiritual  preparation  they  go  forth  in  groups 
into  our  crowded  thoroughfares,  or  to  mission  halls  in  quiet  back 
streets,  to  pursue  their  calling  as  fishers  of  men.  The  following 
sketch  of  an  evening's  work  is  by  Mr.  MacGill,  now  superintendent 
of  the  Manchester  City  Mission,  who  for  a  time  helped  us  in  London. 

Feb.  16th,  1883. 
My  dear  Mrs.  Guinness, — 

As  requested,  I  made  a  run  round  last  night  to  see  the  students  at  their 
work.  It  was  an  exceptionally  beautiful  evening,  and  I  was  therefore  enabled 
to  see  matters  in  the  best  form. 

Beginning  at  the  Bow  Road  station,  I  found  the  young  men  busily  engaged  in 
getting  up  their  open-air  platform,  a  substantial  table  seven  or  eight  feet  long, 
on  which  were  mounted,  with  a  good  harmonium  and  a  large  board  erected  at 
the  back  to  assist  the  voice  and  carry  the  sound  into  the  noisy  thoroughfare,  about 
a  dozen  students.  They  were  singing,  distributing  tracts,  playing  the  harmonium, 
and  delivering  short  gospel  addresses,  and  were  attracting  fair  audiences  and 
holding  them.  One  who  had  newly  arrived  at  the  college  was  speaking  to  a 
London  crowd  for  the  first  time. 

From  Bow  Road  I  went  to  Hackney,  where  the  Bible  carriage  was  at  work 
under  Messrs.  Brewster  and  Hind,  assisted  by  a  number  of  junior  students.  The 
Bible  carriage  is  placed  in  an  opening  used  by  the  tramway  company,  about 
forty  feet  in  width,  close  to  a  great  thoroughfare  traversed  by  all  classes,  the  work- 
ing people  and  lower  orders  preponderating.  From  two  to  three  hundred  persons 
were  gathered  in  the  space  around  the  carriage.  The  platform  was  brilliantly 
lighted  up  by  naphtha  lamps.  Seven  or  eight  women  and  four  or  five  men  formed 
a  choir,  and  one  of  the  students  led  with  his  cornopean,  while  Mr.  Hind  played 
the  harmonium,  and  another  student  was  busily  occupied  in  selling  Bibles,  etc., 
among  the  crowd.  I  got  on  to  the  wagon  for  the  purpose  of  studying  the  appear- 
ance of  the  audience,  and  Mr.  Brewster  called  my  attention  to  the  fact  that  there 
were  at  least  nine  men  to  every  woman,  and  asked  me  if  I  thought  such  an  audi- 
ence could  be  gathered'  from  the  streets  of  London  by  any  other  means.  During 
the  quarter  of  an  hour  that  I  remained  there,  a  hymn,  two  short  addresses,  and  a 
considerable  amount  of  selling  was  the  work  done,  and  at  least  two  audiences 
came  and  went.  They  sold  one  hundred  and  eighty  Testaments  during  the  even- 
ing, and  must  have  addressed  several  thousand  persons. 

From  Hackney  I  returned  to  the  Bow  Road,  and  found  that  the  students  had 
succeeded  in  drawing  to  the  inside  meeting  from  seventy  to  eighty  people,  and  at 
the  door  I  found  two  foreign  students,  a  Swiss  and  a  German,  stopping  the  people 
and  urging  them  to  come  in.  They  had  succeeded  in  getting  into  the  place  a 
number  of  men  who  otherwise  would  certainly  not  have  been  listening  to  the 
gospel. 

I  then  went  to  Harley  Hall,  and  found  another  student  addressing  between 
twenty  and  thirty  people,  who  were  listening  with  great  attention. 

Thence  I  proceeded  to  George  Street  Hall,  where  an  intensely  interesting 
meeting  was  being  held.  The  chapel  was  fairly  filled,  and  a  young  Hutch  student 
was  preaching.  His  address  was  pointed,  clear,  earnest,  original,  and  delivered 
with  great  fervour  ;  and  his  broken  English  only  served  to  give  interest  to  the 
whole.     The   people  listened  with  rapt  attention.     There  were  present   at  the 


n8  Students  at   Work. 

meeting  among  others  about  twenty  young  people,  lads  from  fourteen  to  eighteen, 
and  girls  from  sixteen  to  twenty,  who  had  during  the  last  week  or  ten  days  been 
brought  to  Christ. 

From  George  Street  I  went  to  the  factory  girls'  classes  in  Bromley,  where 
Miss  Guinness  and  the  female  missionaries  were  engaged  in  teaching  seventy  or 
eighty  girls  and  young  women.  I  look  upon  this  as  one  of  the  most  interesting 
operations  connected  with  your  college,  one  of  the  most  difficult,  and  yet  one  of 
the  most  hopeful.  The  factory  girls  of  this  neighbourhood  are  of  a  much  lower 
type  than  anything  I  have  seen,  though  I  have  worked  among  Scotch  factory 
girls  for  eight  and  twenty  years  ;  and  I  consider  that  exceptional  means  must 
be  adopted  for  reaching  and  elevating  these  young  people. 

From  the  factory  girls'  class  I  returned  again  to  Bow  Road,  and  found  the 
students  closing  up  their  night's  work,  having  had  several  anxious  souls  to  speak 
to  at  the  end  of  the  meeting.  They  were  hopeful  and  bright,  and  had  evidently 
enjoyed  their  service  for  Christ. 

I  adjourned  with  the  students  to  the  college,  and  there  met  several  others 
returning  from  the  different  mission  enterprises  they  had  been  engaged  in.  Two 
young  fellows  arrived  from  a  mission  in  Whitecross  Street,  where  they  had  been 
addressing  a  "  cocoa  supper,"  conducted  by  Miss  Hastings,  of  the  London  School 
Board  ;  another  arrived  from  your  hall  at  Saxon  Road  ;  and  a  third  from  your 
mission  enterprise  conducted  by  your  Mr.  Bain,  at  Clapton,  where  he  said  a  very 
blessed  work  was  being  carried  on,  largely  attended  meetings,  and  anxious  per- 
sons to  speak  with  every  night. 

This  is  the  mere  outline  of  what  I  saw  in  my  night's  expedition.  I  was  highly 
gratified,  and  consider  that  there  is  a  great  deal  of  very  living  and  hopeful  work 
being  done,  that  the  men  have  the  right  material  in  them  for  future  mission  work, 
and  that  the  training  they  are  receiving  is  admirably  fitted  to  educate  them  for 
that  purpose. 

I  am,  dear  Mrs.  Guinness,  faithfully  yours, 

J.  Wakefield  MacGill. 


The  most  recent  addition  to  the  Institute  has  been 

A  FEMALE  BRANCH 
for  training  young  women  for  the  mission  field.  It  often  happened 
that  our  students  were  engaged  to  be  married,  and,  as  we  felt  that 
every  missionary's  wife  ought  herself  to  be  a  missionary,  not  only 
in  heart,  but  in  actual  practical  suitability,  it  seemed  wise  and  right 
to  offer  the  young  sisters  advantages  and  opportunities  for  self- 
improvement  and  practice  similar  to  those  we  had  provided  for  their 
future  husbands. 

Accordingly  in  1S84  we  secured  a  substantial  residence  opposite 
Harley  House,  in  the  Bow  Road,  and  by  adding  two  storeys  to  it  in 
height,  and  building  out  a  large  dining-room,  we  made  it  suitable  to 
accommodate  twenty  students,  together  with  the  offices  of  the  Insti- 
tution and  the  family  of  the  lady  superintendent. 


Missionary  Sisters.  119 

The  new  branch  was  opened   early  in   1885,  and  "  Doric  Lodge, 
as  it  is  called,  has  since  sent  out  many  young  sisters,  some  as  wives 
and  some  single,  to  China,  North  Africa,  the  Congo,  South  America, 
and  other  lands. 

We  are  increasingly  convinced  of  the  importance  of  well-trained 
female  agents  amongst  the  heathen,  and  of  the  fact  that  multitudes 
of  women  who  have  the  natural  and  spiritual  qualifications  which 
would  render  them  invaluable  as  missionaries  among  the  heathen 
are  wasting  their  time  at  home  here  in  England,  in  doing  work  which 
has  little  or  no  bearing  on  the  spread  of  the  gospel  in  the  earth. 
We  rejoice,  consequently,  to  be  able  to  offer  to  such  the  oppor- 
tunities for  self-improvement  and  for  practice  in  home  mission  work, 
by  which  alone  they  can  be  really  fitted  for  the  foreign  field.  Con- 
secration of  heart  is  by  no  means  the  only  necessary  qualification. 
Every  kind  of  knowledge  is  useful.  Miss  Bessie  Nelson,  of  Sidon 
in  Syria,  giving  some  hints  from  her  own  experience,  says : 

A  missionary  lady  needs  all  the  knowledge  of  housekeeping  that  she  can 
acquire,  for  the  wages  are  so  small  here  that  it  is  the  best  economy  to  keep  ser- 
vants. They  need  a  great  deal  of  instruction  and  constant  oversight,  and  it  does 
not  take  them  long  to  find  out  whether  the  mistress  knows  more  or  less  than 
they.  What  is  true  of  cooking  is  true  of  all  other  departments  of  housekeeping. 
In  a  school  particularly  there  is  constant  need  of  a  wise  head  to  plan  all  the 
details  of  the  household,  so  as  to  secure  the  economical  and  orderly  working  ot 
every  part.  .  .  .  Dresses  will  have  to  be  cut  and  fitted ;  every  missionary 
lady  should  therefore  be  a  good  seamstress.  Some  will  be  sick,  and,  even  if 
there  be  a  physician  at  hand,  it  is  very  convenient  to  be  saved  the  necessity  of 
consulting  him  about  every  little  ailment  ;  a  practical  knowledge  of  simple  nursing 
at  least  will  therefore  be  most  serviceable.  Ability  to  lead  in  singing  and  to 
accompany  it  is  a  necesssity  also,  if  music  is  to  form  any  part  of  the  worship  ;  but 
above  all,  the  habit  of  teaching  children  is  important.  Grown  people  here  have 
to  be  taught  very  much  as  children  are  taught ;  the  power  to  interest  them  and 
gain  their  love  and  confidence  is  of  the  greatest  value.  A  ready  pen  is  needed, 
and,  as  one  has  to  spend  hours  in  entertaining  people  who  call,  there  is  a  field 
for  the  exercise  of  conversational  powers.  .  .  .  Now  it  is  hardly  to  be 
expected  that  one  person  can  excel  in  all  these  directions,  but  I  have  found  so 
many  ways  in  which  I  might  have  prepared  myself  to  be  a  better  missionary,  that 
I  sometimes  feel  as  if  I  would  like  to  say  to  young  ladies  who  have  a  desire  to 
become  missionaries,  but  are  hindered  by  work  close  at  hand  :  Your  housekeep- 
ing or  your  nursing,  or  your  music  lessons,  or  your  dressmaking,  or  your  teaching 
in  the  dull  round  of  the  public  school,  your  composition,  writing,  or  social  engage 
ments  may,  any  or  all  of  them,  if  thoroughly  mastered,  serve  as  a  preparation  for 
usefulness  in  the  mission  field. 


120  Departures  from  Doric  Lodge. 

There  is  perhaps  nothing  for  which  I  have  been  more  thankful  than  the 
familiarity  I  had  gained  with  the  English  Bible  ;  and  if  I  had  been  twice  as 
familiar  with  it  I  should  have  been  twice  as  thankful.  It  is  so  easy  to  commit  to 
memory  in  a  new  language  the  verses  or  passages  familiar  in  the  English. 

Above  and  beyond  the  matters  enumerated  in  the  foregoing  ex- 
tract, we  should  say  that  the  power  of  soul-winning  among  rich  and 
poor,  old  and  young,  men,  women,  and  children  alike,  is  the  main 
art  which  a  would  be  missionary  needs  to  acquire.  Opportunity  for 
the  practice  of  this  art  lies  in  rich  abundance  around  every  one  of 
us,  and  until  success  is  attained  in  it  at  home,  it  is  little  use  to  send 
either  man  or  woman  abroad. 

Is  it  not  a  thousand  pities  that  multitudes  who  might  be  efficient 
witnesses  of  Christ  among  the  heathen  should  spend  their  days  in 
giving  mere  secular  education  or  in  the  exercise  of  some  manual 
art?  How  many  ladies  we  know  who  are  spending  their  lives  in 
teaching  ! — but  teaching  what?  not  that  knowledge  of  God  which 
is  life  eternal,  but  merely  the  branches  of  ordinary  education.  Will 
they  not  regret  this  expenditure  of  their  life  when  they  stand  before 
the  judgment  seat  of  Christ?  If  they  must  teach,  why  not  teach  in 
China,  India,  or  Japan  the  highest  and  best  of  all  knowledge? 

Already  from  this  branch,  which  had  been  in  operation  on  a  small 
scale  some  years  before  it  found  a  home  in  Doric  Lodge,  about  a 
dozen  young  women  missionaries  have  gone  forth — two  to  the  Congo, 
five  to  Algiers,  two  to  China,  and  others  into  home  work  and  to 
America.  We  give  a  measure  of  medical  instruction  to  each,  and 
these  students  are  many  of  them  efficient  helpers  in  our  home  mission 
work,  not  only  amongst  the  women  and  children,  but  as  teachers  in 
the  men's  night-school. 


Cbapfcr  IV. 
"former  students  and  their  present  spheres. 


It  would  ot  course  be  impossible  in  the  limits  ot  a  brief  sketch  to 
give  any  adequate  idea  of  the  varied  and  widespread  mission  work 
being  done  now  by  men  who  have  passed  through  the  Institute. 
Between  400  and  500  of  such  are  now  scattered  throughout  the  earth, 
labouring  among  all  sorts  and  conditions  of  men.  To  all  parts  ot 
the  European  continent,  to  all  our  colonies,  to  India,  China,  Arabia, 
Turkey,  Egypt,  and  Syria,  to  the  Mohammedans  of  North  Africa, 
the  savages  of  Central  Africa,  and  the  Hottentots  and  Zulus  of  South 
Africa  they  are  teaching  the  "  wonderful  words  of  life."  Not  a  few 
—especially  of  the  fifty  who  went  out  to  the  Congo — have  already 
fallen  asleep,  but  there  are  still  preaching  Christ  in 

EUROPE. 

United  Kingdom  ...  ...  ...        101^ 

France  and  Switzerland        ...  ...  13 

Spain  and  Portugal  ...  ...  ...  5 

Germany  ...  ...  ...  ...  3 l-  131 

Russia  and  Finland   ...  ...  ...  5 

Italy  and  Sicily         ...  ...  ...  2 

roumania  and  bulgaria  ...  ...  2* 

ASIA. 

India,  China,  and  Japan 
Turkey,  Syria,  and  Asia  Minor 

AFRICA. 

North 

South  ...  ...  ..: 

Central 
West  ... 

AMERICA. 

United  States 
Canada 
Jamaica 
South... 

AUSTRALIA 

NEW   ZEALAND      ...  ...  ...        '    ... 

397 

We  will  give  brief  notices  of  a  few  of  these  missionary  brethren, 
and  of  the  spheres  in  which  they  are  labouring. 


123 


Most  of  our  former  students  who  are  now  labouring  in  China  are 
doing  so  in  connection  with  the  China  Inland  Mission,  founded 
and  directed  by  our  valued  friend  Rev.  J.  Hudson  Taylor,  M.D. 
This  mission  is  the  most  extensive  and  the  most  aggressive  in  China, 
and  has  been  wonderfully  prospered  in  its  endeavour  to  send  am- 
bassadors for  Christ  into  all  the  eighteen  provinces  of  this  million 
peopled  empire  during  the  last  twenty  years. 

When  it  commenced  operations  in  1866  there  were  only  97  mission- 
aries connected  with  all  the  Protestant  societies  put  together  in  China, 
and  they  were  all  concentrated  on  the  seaboard,  leaving  eleven  great 
provinces,  each  one  as  large  as  a  European  kingdom,  without  a  single 
witness  for  Jesus.  Now  in  18S6  there  are  152  missionaries,  and  36 
wives  of  missionaries,  most  of  whom  had  themselves  gone  out  as 
missionaries  in  the  China  Inland  Mission  alone,  nearly  double  the 
number  of  the  entire  staff  in  China  twenty  years  ago.  These  occupy 
every  province  in  the  empire  except  one,  where  a  settlement  has  as 
yet  been  found  impossible,  and  where  one  of  our  brethren  was  very 
roughly  handled,  nearly  killed  indeed,  by  the  Chinese  last  year. 

By  extensive  itineration  in  all  directions  the  missionaries  of  the 
C.I.M.  opened  up  province  after  province  to  the  utmost  bounds  of 
the  enormous  empire,  and  long  before  settled  stations  would  have 
been  possible — scattered  the  printed  word  of  life,  and  preached  the 
gospel  in  evangelistic  tours. 

Nor  did  they  confine  themselves  to  China  proper  only,  but 
visited  also  in  the  vast  outlying  districts  in  Mongolia  and  Man- 
churia and  the  Corea,  in  the  Shan  Mountains  and  in  North  Burma. 
With  heroic  faith  and  courage  they  went  thousands  of  miles  beyond 
European  help  or  protection,  and  casting  themselves  on  the  Chinese, 
living  among  them,  wearing  their  clothes,  eating  their  food,  speak- 
ing their  language,  healing  their  diseases,  they  did  more  than  any 
other  agency  to  induce  friendly  relations  between  the  natives  and 
the  Europeans. 


SEVEN  YEARS'  WANDERINGS  IN  CHINA. 

At  a  recent  meeting  of  the  China  Inland  Mission,  held  in  the 
Mildmay  Conference  Hall,  a  curious  looking  map,  intersected  by 
an  irregular  network  of  scarlet  braid,  was  suspended  above  the 
platform.  It  represented  the  Chinese  empire,  with  its  eighteen 
provinces,  and  the  adjacent  territories  of  Mongolia,  Manchuria, 
Corea,  Tibet,  and  Burma.  '  A  drawing  in  the  corner  of  England 
on  the  same  scale,  smaller  than  China's  smallest  province,  gave 
one  some  idea  of  the  vast  extent  of  country  included  in  the  map. 
To  its  utmost  limits,  and  in  every  direction,  ran  the  bright  red  line, 
which  marked  the  journeyings  of  our  former  student,  Mr.  James 
Cameron,  who  has,  during  the  past  seven  years,  traversed  China  in 
her  length  and  breadth,  and  entered  some  of  her  outlying  territories, 
distributing  the  Scriptures,  and  preaching  the  gospel.  It  is  easy  to 
trace  such  journeyings  on  a  map;  but  as  the  traveller  gave,  in 
briefest  outline,  his  unpretending  account  of  his  itinerations,  one 
felt  that  only  a  God-given  zeal  and  patient  endurance  could  have 
carried  him  over  those  more  than  20,000  miles,  with  all  the  attendant 
privations,  perils,  and  fatigues. 

Mr.  Cameron  generally  journeyed  on  foot,  partly  from  necessity, 
though  often  by  choice,  as  he  found  more  opportunity  of  doing  his 
Master's  work  in  this  way.  Occasionally  he  travelled  on  horseback 
or  on  a  mule  ;  in  the  north  a  cart  might  now  and  then  be  hired,  but 
these  springless  conveyances  left  their  traces  in  many  a  bruise 
on  the  traveller's  person.  Wheelbarrows  were  the  fashion  in  the 
.southern  province  of  Kwang-si ;  mere  trucks  divided  into  two  seat3 
by  a  wheel  let  into  the  centre  ;  two,  and  sometimes  four  persons 
ride  on  these,  one  coolie  pushing  the  load. 

Starting  in  1876  from  Gan-king,  about  500  miles  inland  from 
Shanghai,  after  six  months  spent  in  studying  the  language,  Mr. 
Cameron  went  westward  into  Si-chuen,  on  the  border  of  Tibet 
He  found  himself  the  first  foreigner  to  enter  many  of  the  towns  on 
his  route,  but  was  able,  almost  everywhere,  to  sell  some  Scriptures 
and  tracts.  Now  and  then  however  he  was  threatened  with  violence, 
as  at  I-chang,  a  treaty  port  on  the  Yang-tsi,  where  the  people  rose 
against  the  foreigners,  broke  in  the  wooden  front  of  the  house  in 
which  he  was  staying  with  a  fellow  worker,  Mr.  Nicoll — another 
ot  our  former  students — and  stole  or  spoiled  much  of  their  property. 
At  a  town  in  Kiang-si,  the  landlord  of  his  inn  was  beaten  for  having 

harboured  the  "foreign  devil." 

1 


126  In  a  Tibetan  Lamasery. 

There  was  some  river  travelling  at  this  point  of  his  journey, 
through  the  magnificent  gorges  of  the  Yang-tsi ;  but  Mr.  Cameron 
always  took  a  land  route  by  preference  when  there  was  a  choice, 
as  he  could  hardly  go  a  mile  on  foot  without  meeting  wayfarers  to 
whom  he  might  deliver  his  message,  or  sell  one  of  his  books.  In 
the  numerous  hamlets  on  his  road  he  usually  found  ready  listeners 
to  his  preaching,  as  well  as  a  fair  sale  for  Scriptures  and  tracts. 
Near  Tibet,  he  was  amused  by  the  exaggerated  accounts  of  China- 
men who  had  entered  that  country,  and  described  it  as  a  barbarous 
land,  abounding  in  perils  for  the  traveller.  They  advised  him  to 
carry  thither,  as  a  preservative  from  evil,  some  earth  from  Sichuen, 
if  he  would  return  from  Tibet  in  health  and  safety  !  He  found 
however  that  the  only  distinguishing  features  of  Tibet,  in  so  far 
as  he  penetrated  it,  were  the  sparseness  of  population  and  the 
poverty  of  the  people.  The  border  town  of  Litang  was  swarming 
with  the  bald-pated  lamas,  who  are  the  priests  of  Tibet.  In  every 
Tibetan  family  every  other  son  born  is  destined  to  belong  to  this 
lazy  brotherhood !  Priestcraft  never  surely  attained  such  terrible 
proportions  elsewhere. 

Mr.  Cameron  managed,  under  disguise  of  the  Chinese  dress  he 
always  wore,  to  enter  a  lamasery  with  a  crowd  who  were  offering 
gifts  to  the  chief  lama.  He  observed  that  this  high  priest  gave  the 
people  in  return  a  small  piece  of  ribbon  supposed  to  act  as  a  charm, 
with  which  the  priest-ridden  devotees  went  away  looking  extremely 
happy.  As  they  came  in  and  went  out,  each  turned  round  one  of- 
the  upright  rollers  or  prayer  wheels,  standing  in  rows  on  each  side 
the  building,  this  being  their  mechanical  form  of  supplication. 

The  road  for  long  sections  was  seldom  below  an  elevation  of 
12,000  ft.  ;  and  there  is  a  magnificent  mountain,  Kenda,  which  is 
22,000  ft.  high,  in  this  district.  Mr.  Cameron  passed  southwards 
into  Yunnan  after  his  excursion  into  Tibet.  Popery  had  long 
been  planted  among  the  five  millions  of  this  province,  but  he  found 
there  no  Protestant  mission.  (The  China  Inland  Mission  has  now 
several  stations  there.)  Serious  illness  delayed  him  some  weeks. 
About  this  time  he  had  suffered  much  from  cold,  long,  trying  walks  ; 
climbing  over  snow-clad  mountains  in  Tibet,  with  the  poorest  fare 
and  most  wretched  accommodation  at  the  end  of  each  day's  weary 
course,  had  been  too  much  even  for  his  iron  frame. 

The  principal  food  of  the  Chinese  in  this  western  region  is  a 
decoction  called  "tsan-pa,"  made  of  brick  tea  boiled  and  mixed  with 


WOMEN    OF    LADAK,    TIBET. 


128  Parting  the  Rule. 

flour,  salt,  and  butter.  After  a  visit  to  Bhamo  in  Burma,  Mr. 
Cameron  ended  this  westerly  tour  of  about  five  thousand  miles 
at  Singapore,  where  he  enjoyed  some  much  needed  refreshment  in 
the  company  of  Christian  friends. 

But  in  his  life  "parting  seemed  to  be  the  rule,"  to  use  his  own 
words  ;  and  he  soon  started  again  on  his  lonesome  way.  This  time 
he  went  through  the  southern  province  of  Kwang-si,  where  his  wheel- 
barrow coolies  were  poor,  sickly  opium  smokers,  only  able  to  perform 
their  labours  under  the  influence  of  that  deadly  drug.  The  mission- 
ary's medicines  were  in  great  request  in  this  part  of  his  travels,  and 
the  people  he  was  enabled  to  cure  brought  him  presents  of  fowls, 
tea,  and  cakes,  in  proof  of  their  gratitude,  and  in  many  villages 
became  ready  listeners  to  the  gospel  which  he  preached. 

It  will  be  seen  by  our  map  how  he  now  returned  into  Yunnan,  to 
traverse  its  eastern  side,  among  a  miserable  people,  so  poor  as  to 
look  pinched  with  want,  yet  greatly  given  to  opium  smoking.  In 
the  capital,  Yunnan-fu,  where  a  station  is  now  established,  he  had 
attentive  hearers,  some  coming  to  his  inn  for  a  quiet  talk ;  and 
many  carried  to  distant  homes  the  sheet  tracts  which  he,  standing 
in  the  gateway  of  the  city,  distributed  freely.  Some  months  later, 
months  of  toilsome  but  untiring  missionary  travel,  we  find  him  in 
September,  1879,  far  away  in  the  north-east  at  Tien-tsin,  where  he 
was  gladdened  by  the  success  of  Dr.  Mackenzie's  medical  mission. 
From  morning  till  evening  patients  suffering  from  all  manner  of 
diseases  were  coming  to  the  temple  given  by  the  viceroy  for  a  dis- 
pensary, and  every  comer  heard  the  word  of  life. 

Mr.  Cameron's  last  journey  was  far  away  to  the  north,  not  only 
to  the  Chinese  provinces  of  Shen-si  and  Shan-si,  but  into  the  out- 
lying districts  of  Shin-king  and  the  borders  of  Corea ;  he  also  crossed 
Manchuria ;  and  his  wanderings  ended  at  Chifu.  He  had  entered 
every  province  but  one  of  the  great  empire,  and  his  journeyings  had 
traversed,  in  various  directions,  an  area  as  extensive  as  all  Europe. 

And  year  after  year,  and  all  these  thousands  of  miles,  the  one 
great  object  of  Mr.  Cameron's  journey  was  never  lost  sight  of ;  and 
while  his  were  primarily  pioneering  explorations,  the  good  seed  ot 
the  kingdom  was  sown  on  every  possible  occasion.  Many  a  way- 
side talk  did  he  hold  with  strangely  mixed  companions.  "Every 
three  or  four  miles,"  he  tells  us,  "  one  would  come  to  a  tea  shop, 
and  seated  there,  with  a  beggar  it  might  be  on  one  side  sipping  his 
two  cash  worth  of  tea,  a  merchant  or  literate  on  the  other,  some 


Eighteen  Months'  Letters.  129 

half  dozen  listeners  in  front,  all  full  of  curiosity  about  my  affairs, 
I  would  speak  to  them  of  the  way  of  salvation  through  Jesus. 
Sometimes  at  night  I  was  able  to  get  a  small  room  in  an  inn,  or  a 
small  corner  in  a  large  room,  or  only  a  corner  in  a  large  bed,  no 
screen  of  any  kind  anywhere,  and  at  once  the  tidings  would  spread, 
'  a  foreigner  is  come,'  and  the  house  would  be  speedily  filled  with 
Chinamen  crowding  into  my  room,  or  room  corner,  and  on  to  my 
very  bed,  staring,  examining  my  clothes,  questioning,  as  only  China- 
men can  question,  about  my  great-great-grandfather,  and  every  family 
detail  connected  with  me  ;  for  hours  my  visitors,  usually  including 
my  landlord  and  his  wife,  would  remain ;  even  the  literati  would 
come,  and  borrow  books,  which  they  returned  to  me  before  I 
journeyed  away.  Among  many  of  the  magistrates  I  met  with 
kindness,  and  preached  the  gospel  in  the  houses  of  several." 

Most  solemnly  the  thought  used  to  press  on  the  missionary's 
mind  that  to  most  of  those  he  met  in  the  many  millioned  provinces 
of  China  and  the  regions  beyond  on  which  here  and  there  he 
touched,  the  message  of  life  was  heard  now,  not  only  for  the  first, 
but  probably  also  for  the  last  time.  Surely  if  any  sowing  of  the 
good  seed  needs  more  peculiarly  than  another  to  be  followed  up  by 
prayer,  it  is  such  work  as  this  ! 

We  have  referred  already  to  some  of  the  trials  and  privations  ot 
such  journeyings  as  Mr.  Cameron's  ;  many  more  might  be  men- 
tioned. How  much  of  isolation,  for  instance,  is  implied  in  the  simple 
entry  in  his  record,  "I  arrived  at  Pakhoi,  to  find  18  months'  letters 
awaiting  me  !  "  But  it  is  not  for  us  to  dwell  on  trials  to  which  he 
alludes  but  rarely,  and  in  the  most  passing  way.  The  steadfast 
spirit  of  the  great  missionary  traveller  of  old  who  could  say,  "  None 
of  these  things  move  me,"  reappears  in  Mr.  Cameron's  diary,  with 
deep  thankfulness  for  mercies  by  the  way,  especially  for  the  fulfil- 
ment of  the  promise,  "  He  that  hath  forsaken  brethren  and  sisters 
for  My  name's  sake,  shall  receive  a  hundredfold,"  for  many  a  sweet, 
refreshing  experience  of  brotherly  kindness  and  welcome  to  Christian 
homes  was  given  him  to  enjoy.  Rather  would  we  sympathise  with 
him  in  the  only  real  cause  of  despondency  and  discouragement  he 
met  with,  the  sore  want  of  labourers  in  a  field  so  vast,  and  in  some 
respects  so  white  unto  harvest. 

"  I  felt  again  and  again,"  says  Mr.  Cameron,  "  meeting  as  I  did, 
not  with  Chinese  only,  but  Tibetans,  Miao-tsi',  Mosos,  Minkias, 
Shans,  Kahch'ens,  living  without  Cod  and  without  hope  in  the  world, 


1 30  Extracts  from  Mr.  Bailer's  Diaries. 

Oh  that  I  could  divide  myself  into  many  parts,  so  as  to  carry  the 
message  of  salvation  to  all  of  these  !  " 

If  this  is  the  feeling  of  the  servant,  what  must  be  the  yearning 
of  the  Master  over  these  perishing  multitudes,  and  what  His  desire 
to  see  His  disciples  go  as  His  witnesses  among  these  millions, 
impelled  by  the  power  of  His  constraining  love,  and  inspired  by 
the  hope  of  His  speedy  coming  ! 

MR.    BALLER'S   JOURNEYS. 

Others  of  our  former  students  have  also  itinerated  very  exten- 
sively in  China.  In  1880  Mr.  Baller,  in  a  long  journey  across  the 
centre  of  the  empire  to  Kwei-chau  in  the  south-west,  escorted  a 
party  of  missionary  sisters  to  their  distant  destination. 

To  reach  the  borders  of  this  province  the  party  had  to  travel  for 
weeks  by  native  boat,  and  to  traverse  the  province  of  Hu-nan, 
among  whose  twenty-five  millions  no  missionary  as  yet  resides.  On 
entering  Kwei-chau  itself  (the  country  becoming  very  mountainous) 
the  river  ceased  to  be  navigable,  and  the  journey  had  to  be  com- 
pleted on  foot  or  in  sedan  chairs,  the  travellers  having  to  spend  the 
night  in  native  inns  at  the  end  of  each  stage. 

They  passed  through  much  interesting  and  beautiful  scenery,  the 
river  winding  in  and  out  among  splendid  hills  and  mountains, 
covered  with  wood  to  their  summits.  Mr.  Baller  describes  portions 
of  it  as  a  very  garden  of  the  Lord  for  beauty  ;  but  the  river  in  this 
part  is  dangerous ;  sunken  rocks,  rapids,  and  boiling  caldrons  being 
met  with  continually,  it  requires  great  care  to  steer  clear  of  eddies. 
The  boats  are  towed  up  the  river,  and  heavy  ones  require  as  many 
as  twenty  men  to  pull  them  against  the  current. 

Much  missionary  work  was  done  on  the  road,  both  among  men 
and  women,  though  differences  of  dialect  created  some  difficulty  in 
intercourse.  Two  English  sisters  and  one  Chinese  sister  were  of  the 
party.     Mr.  Bailer's  journal  has  many  such  entries  as  the  following  : 

Went  forward  a  little,  and  found  a  woman  with  a  child  strapped  to  her  back. 
She  listened  with  the  greatest  attention,  and  repeated  what  we  said,  proving  she 
understood  us.  She  appeared  specially  interested  in  the  story  of  the  sufferings  of 
the  Lord  Jesus,  and  expressed  several  times  her  great  wonder  that  He  should 
have  stooped  so  low  as  to  die  for  us.  In  the  evening,  just  before  dusk,  several 
men  came  down  from  the  village  opposite.  They  gave  willing  ear  to  the  truth, 
and  gladly  took  copies  of  the  gospels  and  small  books  away  with  them. 

We  have  had  a  profitable  day,  having  a  good  many  opportunities  of  speaking 


Itineration,  and  in  Kivei-cJtan,  131 

to  different  people.  Our  sisters  had  very  attentive  audiences  of  women,  both 
ashore  and  on  hoard  the  boat.  They  showed  great  willingness  to  listen  to  the 
word,  and  were  almost  invariably  kind  and  agreeable. 

In  March  the  river  navigation  ceased,  and  they  had  to  engage 
coolies  for  the  land  journey. 

Mr.  Bailer  has  travelled  extensively  in  other  parts  of  China,  and 
could  therefore  compare  this  Kwei-chau  province  with  others  which 
he  had  visited.  He  writes  of  it  as  follows,  and  we  would  call  special 
attention  to  his  statements  about  the  tremendous  increase  and  miser- 
able results  of  the  opium  growing  in  these  south-western  provinces. 
Instead  of  being  true  to  its  name,  a  "noble  land,"  Kwei-chau  is  evi- 
dently a  deeply  degraded  land  in  consequence  of  the  opium  vice. 

Our  nine  days'  journey  overland  was  a  most  enjoyable  one,  and  the  weather 
fine  ;  but  the  poverty  stricken  appearance  of  the  country  we  passed  through  con- 
trasted unfavourably  with  the  well-to-do  air  of  Hu-nan  (or  south  lake),  which  is 
perhaps  one  of  the  richest  provinces  in  the  empire.  In  many  towns  little  could 
be  bought.  Indeed  they  were  the  most  woebegone  cities  I  have  seen  anywhere  in 
China  ;  the  people  poor  and  miserable  looking,  and  I  suppose  seven-tenths  of  them 
smoke  opium.  They  appeared  apathetic  and  indifferent  to  everything.  The 
amount  of  opium  grown  here  is  really  fearful,  both  on  Hu-nan  and  Si-chuen  sides 
of  the  capital  the  whole  country  is  covered  with  it.  It  looks  lovely;  the  poppy 
flowers  just  in  bloom  presenting  great  varieties  of  colour,  the  petals  of  some  pure 
white,  the  others  delicate  pink  with  white  edges,  while  others  are  deep  red  or 
crimson,  or  else  a  magnificent  dark  blue.  The  cultivation  being  so  extensive, 
opium  is  very  cheap,  can  be  bought  for  35.  6d.  per  lb.  The  devil  has  made  it 
very  easy  for  the  poor  people  to  become  slaves  to  the  accursed  habit  of  smoking 
it.  We  saw  them  gathering  in  their  opium  harvest.  It  is  only  within  this 
generation  that  opium  smoking  has  become  so  common.  Kwei-chau,  the  scene 
through  which  we  passed,  is  the  finest  I  have  seen  anywhere.  Our  road  lay  over 
great  mountains  ;  and  as  we  crossed  some  elevated  pass,  we  could  see  good  high 
hills  down  below  looking  like  molehills  in  the  gray  morning  before  the  mist  has 
lifted.  Their  cone-shaped  tops  appeared  above  the  clouds  lying  in  the  valleys, 
like  hills  on  a  vast  white  sea. 

The  travellers  had  a  kind  and  hearty  reception  at  the  city  of  Kwei- 
yang  from  the  dear  missionaries  already  resident  there,  who  soon 
secured  a  second  house  for  the  newly  arrived  ladies.  Mr.  Bailer's 
mission  being  accomplished,  he  left  in  a  few  days  for  his  distant 
home  at  Wu-chang,  accompanied  by  a  native  evangelist,  an  umbrella 
maker,  going  round  by  Chung-king,  in  the  Si-chuen  province,  to  see 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Nicoll,  and  to  I-chang  in  Hu-peh.  We  are  sorry  to  say 
that  after  a  while  both  his  own  health  and  that  of  his  dear  wife  began 
to  fail  seriously  at  Wu-chang.  It  was  therefore  decided  that  they 
should  remove  to  Chifu,  the  sanatorium  of  the  China  Inland  Mission, 
on  the  sea  coast  of  the  northern  province  of  Shan-Tung.     This  place 


H2 


Henry  Taylor  in  Ho-nan. 


SAIL   HELPING   WHEELBARROW. 

has  a  much  finer  climate,  and  a  great  deal  of  work  is  carried  on  there 
by  the  mission,  in  which  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Bailer  are  assisting  for  the 
present. 

Mr.  Henry  Taylor  went  to  China  soon  after  Mr.  Bailer,  and 
at  one  time  itinerated  extensively  in  Ho-nan  province,  in  the  centre 
of  China ;  but  such  was  the  inveterate  hostility  of  the  people  that 


Mr.  Dorward  in  Gan-hwuy.  133 

he  failed  to  effect  a  settlement  there,  and  ran  many  risks  of  his 
life  even  in  visiting  its  towns  and  cities.  He  afterwards  settled 
nearer  the  eastern  coast  at  the  city  of  Kin-hwa,  in  the  province  of 
Cheh-kiang,  where  he  had  some  encouragement  in  his  work.  Five 
men  and  one  woman  were  baptized  in  1880,  and  there  are  now 
many  native  Christians  in  communion.  These  converts  have  not 
been  without  persecutions.  A  murderous  assault  was  made  by  the 
soldiers  on  the  native  preacher,  who  suffered  severely  from  the 
effects  of  it.  The  authorities  however  took  up  the  case,  and  punished 
the  culprits,  and  it  is  hoped  the  results  will  rather  further  than 
hinder  the  work. 

This  dear  brother,  Mr.  Taylor,  seriously  injured  his  health  in  the 
course  of  several  missionary  journeys  which  he  subsequently  made, 
and  fell  asleep  in  Jesus  at  Chifu  while  still  young. 


Mr.  Dorward,  of  Galashiels,  met  with  much  success  in  reaching 
the  people.  Many  and  extensive  were  his  journeyings  in  the 
province  of  Gan-hwuy,  near  the  eastern  coast.  This  important 
province,  with  its  population  of  nine  millions,  is,  as  will  be  seen  by  a 
glance  at  the  map,  divided  into  two  sections  by  a  northerly  bend 
of  the  Yang-tsi-kiang.  Mr.  Dorward  was  permitted  to  carry  the 
gospel  to  four  of  its  western  counties  not  previously  worked. 
He  has  been  blessed  with  good  health,  so  that  he  was  able  to  travel 
on  foot  immense  distances  without  suffering.  In  eight  months  he 
travelled  eighteen  hundred  miles  in  this  province,  mostly  on  foot. 
He  mentions  that  in  some  districts  through  which  he  passed 
foreigners  were  little  known,  and  at  times  the  people  said  he  was 
the  only  foreigner  they  had  ever  seen. 

Mr.  Dorward  wrote : 

We  saw  some  fine  specimens  of  industry,  the  sides  of  the  hills  cultivated  at 
nearly  every  available  spot,  and  covered  with  young  crops.  In  many  places  they 
are  terraced,  and  wheat  was  grown  on  parts  so  steep  that  one  would  have  thought 
it  impossible  to  till  the  land.  The  houses  of  the  country  people  are  often  found 
up  to  nearly  the  top  of  some  of  the  hills.  I  have  seen  much  gambling  lately,  and 
sometimes  think  the  Chinese  have  every  influence  that  is  bad,  with  little  that  is 
good  to  counteract  it ;  so. that  God  is  quite  removed  from  their  thoughts. 

While  travelling  on  these  journeys  we  are  not  surrounded  by  many  earthly 
comforts ;  but  what  a  privilege  it  is  to  be  permitted  to  give  up  a  few  of  earth's 
luxuries  for  our  Lord  and  Master  !  Our  food  may  sometimes  be  poor,  and  our 
accommodation  uncomfortable  ;  but  we  are  privileged  to  dispense  to  the  perishing 
the  bread  of  life,  and  we  remember  Him  who  said,  "the  Son  of  man  hath  not 
where  to  lay  His  head. " 


134  Economical  Travelling. 

In  1 88 1  Mr.  Dorward  commenced  itinerating  in  the  distant 
province  of  Hu-nan,  to  which  he  has  been  designated  by  the  direc- 
tor of  the  mission,  and  in  which  he  hopes  to  find  his  life  work. 
This  is  the  large  province  which  lies  to  the  south  of  the  Tung-Ting 
lake,  and  has  a  population  of  sixteen  millions.  It  has  no  mission 
station  in  it  as  yet,  nor  had  any  missionary  ever  traversed  some  ot 
the  routes  over  which  Mr.  Dorward  has  gone.  His  itinerations  in 
these  provinces  will  be  continued  systematically  in  different  direc- 
tions, until  the  way  opens  somewhere  for  residence  and  localized 
labours. 

This  journey  occupied  him  five  months  and  a  half,  and  the  dis- 
tance traversed  was  very  considerable.  He  was  accompanied  by 
two  native  helpers  ;  and  the  expense  of  the  whole  party  during  this 
long  pilgrimage  did  not  exceed  ^30,  a  fact  that  seems  almost 
incredible,  but  which  shows  what  rigid  economy  he  practised.  This 
sum  included  the  porterage  of  books,  which  is  itself  an  expensive 
tern.  Many  hundreds  of  gospels  and  many  thousands  of  tracts 
were  disposed  of,  while  Christ  and  His  salvation  were  preached  to 
large  multitudes.  The  journey  commenced  on  October  19th, 
1S80,  and  continued  through  the  winter.  Our  brother  met -with 
opposition  from  the  turbulent  people  occasionally,  and  cries  of  "  beat 
the  foreign  devil  "  were  raised,  but  no  actual  assault  was  made,  and 
on  the  whole  he  seems  to  have  been  exceedingly  well  received.  Of 
the  city  of  You-chau  he  says  : 

After  breakfast  we  went  into  the  city  with  two  native  brethren.  Before  offer- 
ing our  books  for  sale  we  walked  through  the  greater  part  of  it.  As  we  stood 
at  the  west  gate  some  of  the  people  gathered  round,  and  we  spoke  a  few  words 
and  offered  our  books  for  sale.  We  then  went  along  several  streets  selling  books. 
A  few  stones  were  thrown  at  me,  and  some  cries  of  "beat  !  "  were  to  be  heard. 
Once  while  I  was  standing  they  tied  my  tail  and  a  boy's  together,  and  at  the  same 
time  a  man  was  going  off,  having  given  me  too  little  money  for  the  book  he 
bought.  When  I  walked  off,  and  began  to  pull  the  little  fellow,  he  was  greatly 
frightened,  but  another  man  stepped  forward  and  broke  the  string.  Some  were 
inclined  to  be  rather  rough,  and  others  inclined  to  be  well  disposed.  One  old 
man,  while  buying  the  books,  said  as  an  apology  for  their  rudeness,  "It  is  be- 
cause they  do  not  understand."  Yes,  "  Father,  forgive  them  ;  for  they  know  not 
what  they  do."  On  the  whole  our  reception  in  Hunan  has  not  been  so  warm  (!) 
as  I  feared  it  might  be. 

They  had  some  difficulty  in  passing  the  Tung-Ting  lake,  and  visit- 
ing many  places  around  its  shores.  Their  lives  were  graciously 
preserved  in  storms  and  dangers,  both  on  this  lake  and  on  the  rapids 
of  the  river.     They  passed  through  cities  of  5,000,  6,000,  10,000, 


Mr.  Parker  in  Kan-suh.  135 

20,000,  and  25,000  inhabitants,  and  some  even  larger.  At  a  town 
called  Hun-Kiang,  five  hundred  miles  from  their  starting-point,  they 
formed  a  depot  of  books  and  Bibles.  In  January  they  encountered 
some  little  trouble  from  the  underlings  of  the  Ya-men,  at  a  town 
called  Yang-chau,  about  660  miles  from  their  starting-point. 

Shortly  after  this  their  supplies  of  money  ran  out,  and  as  it  was  im- 
possible to  get  them  renewed  nearer  they  had  to  turn  aside  to  Kwei- 
yang,  in  the  distant  province  of  Kwei-chau,  the  nearest  station  of  the 
China  Inland  Mission,  but  two  hundred  miles  distant  from  them  ! 

Since  then,  in  1884,  the  mission  opened  a  central  station  in  this 
vast  province  of  Hunan,  at  the  city  of  Shasi.  Had  there  been  one 
it  would  have  saved  our  brethren  this  walk  of  two  hundred  miles 
there  and  two  hundred  miles  back.  The  journey  however  was  not 
all  loss.  Missionary  work  was  done,  both  going  and  coming,  and 
one  week  was  spent  in  resting  with  the  missionaries  at  Kwei-yang, 
who  were  greatly  refreshed  by  their  visit.  They  prayed  Mr.  Dor- 
ward  to  tarry  with  them,  but  he  is  too  earnest  about  his  work  to 
delay  needlessly,  and  left  them  to  continue  his  wanderings.  He 
is  now  appointed  superintendent  of  the  work  in  the  province  of 
Hu-nan,  and  has  five  colleagues  and  three  native  Chinese  assistants. 

What  a  noble  sphere  for  a  young  disciple  of  Christ,  an  un- 
evangelized  province  of  25,000,000  people  !  Is  there  not  many 
a  young  man  wasting  his  one  precious  life  in  merely  earning  for 
himself  food  and  raiment,  who  might  be,  like  this  dear  young 
brother,  spending  it  in  preaching  Christ  to  multitudes  among  whom 
He  is  not  yet  named  ? 

MR.  PARKER   IN    KAN-SUH. 

From  a  very  remote  part  of  the  Chinese  empire,  its  extreme  north- 
western corner,  Tsinchau,  another  of  our  former  students,  Mr. 
George  Parker,  writes  : 

Dear  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Guinness, — 

During  the  year  past  I  have  visited  most  of  the  cities  in  northern  Kan-suh, 
which  have  thus  had  the  gospel  brought  to  them  for  the  first  time.  I  travelled 
3,200  miles,  occupying  208  days  ;  sold  10,000  portions  of  Scripture  in  Chinese, 
besides  Arabic,  Persian,  Tibetan,  and  Manchu.  My  last  journey  was  taken  during 
a  severe  winter,  and  most  of  the  time  I  was  weakly  through  a  troublesome  cough, 
which  forced  me  to  turn  back  before  I  reached  my  goal.  I  have  got  quite  well 
since  I  came  home,  and  am  looking  forward  to  a  good  year  along  the  Tibetan  and 
Mongol  borders,  west  and  north.  During  two  years  I  have  gone  over  the  greater 
part  of  the  province.     I  hope  it  will  soon  be  portioned  out  amongst  three  brethren, 


136  Vast  Outlying   Territories. 

as  there  are  souls  asking  for  instruction  in  places  widely  separated.  I  am  thankfu  1 
that  they  can  read  and  have  the  Scriptures  in  their  hands. 

Although  I  was  hindered  in  my  journey  north-west  by  sickness,  I  met  traders 
from  most  of  the  cities  in  "  the  regions  beyond,"  returning  home  in  time  for  the 
new  year,  with  whom  I  had  long  conversations  about  the  localities  in  which  they 
have  been  resident.  They  were  mostly  men  of  Shensi,  Shansi,  and  Honan. 
Some  of  them  had  their  families  with  them.  One  Shensi  man  gave  me  his  name 
and  full  address,  asking  for  instruction.  After  a  long  gospel  talk,  he  said  he 
wanted  to  be  a  Christian,  bought  a  New  Testament,  insisted  on  paying  more 
than  the  selling  price,  and  turned  to  my  muleteers — who  were  lying  on  the  bed- 
place,  but  listening — telling  them  how  happy  was  their  lot  in  travelling  with  me 
to  hear  such  good  words. 

At  Ninghia,  a  man  monopolised  the  whole  of  my  evenings,  hearing  and  asking 
me  questions.  He  had  read  the  four  gospels  so  carefully  as  to  notice  that  the 
miracle  of  the  loaves  was  in  each.  A  lame  old  man  in  eastern  Kan-suh  told  me 
that  he  had  been  praying  to  Jesus  for  three  years,  and  asked  me  to  stay  a  day  at 
the  village  and  teach  him.  I  was  hurrying  home  for  my  wife's  confinement,  and 
the  rainy  season  was  setting  in  ;  I  dared  not  halt.  The  disciple  must  often  take  up 
his  Master's  sigh,  "  The  labourers  are  few."  Oh  for  a  dozen  brethren,  willing  to 
scatter  themselves  over  a  wholly  destitute  region  as  large  as  a  score  of  Palestine's  ! 
They  must  have  slaves'  hearts  in  devotion  to  Jesus  Christ,  and  learn  thoughtfully 
to  call  Him  Lord.  Chinese  mission  work  is  play  compared  with  that  of  the 
Congo.  It  does  one  good  to  read  of  the  brethren  there  enduring  hardness  ;  it 
makes  one  ashamed  when  the  heart  shrinks  for  a  moment  at  the  wear  and  tear, 
the  dirt  and  dust  of  pioneer  work,  to  think  of  those  hastening  to  glory  through 
fever  and  death  for  Jesus'  sake. 

To  supply  the  need  of  all  the  regions  I  hope  to  explore,  twelve  stations  would 
be  needed,  about  500  miles,  or  a  month's  journey,  apart,  besides  the  basis  of 
operations  at  the  capital  of  Kan-suh,  Lanchau.  In  my  former  letter  I  only  spoke 
of  the  route  to  Yarkand  ;  but  from  information  gathered  since  I  find  that  western 
Mongolia  is  most  accessible  from  Hami,  and  will  look  to  receive  the  tidings  of 
salvation  through  Kan-suh. 

The  resident  who  superintends  the  Mongol  tribes  south  of  the  desert  resides  at 
Ninghia.  Two  chieftains  rule  this  extensive  territory,  one  having  his  capital  three 
days'  journey  west  of  Ninghia,  across  the  mountains.  A  Chinese,  or  rather 
Manchu,  princess  is  always  given  to  this  king  of  the  Eluths.  I  have  visited  the 
place,  and  had  an  interview  with  the  chief's  brother.  The  second  is  king  of  the 
Artos,  and  rules  the  nomads  within  the  great  northern  bend  of  the  Yellow  River. 
There  is  said  to  be  also  a  resident  at  Shen-mu,  in  the  north  of  Shensi,  with  the 
oversight  of  six  chiefs.     Ninghia  is  400  miles  from  the  capital. 

Ku-ku  Lake  province  is  under  a  resident  at  Sining.  The  most  important 
border-town  in  western  Kan-suh  is  however  Hochau,  which  gives  easy  access  to 
Lapelong,  perhaps  the  most  important  trading  town  within  the  Tibetan  territory 
of  western  Kan-suh.  Hochau  is  so  wonderfully  surrounded  by  various  tribes,  that 
if  the  door  was  shut  that  gives  access  to  Outer  Mongolia,  Zungaria,  and  Turkestan, 
the  races  that  inhabit  those  regions  could  be  all  evangelized  in  the  remnants  that 
are  accessible  from  Hochau.  One  day  east  of  Hochau  is  a  large  tribe  of  Mongols, 
wlio,  200  years  ago,  accepted  the  Moslem  faith  and  retained  their  own  lands, 
rather  than  flee  westward  or  perish  by  the  sword.  They  speak  Chinese  equally 
well    with    their   mother-tongue.      They  are   called  Tu-reu  (aborigines).     Three 


Why  do  not   Voting  Men  volunteer  ?  137 

days  north-west,  on  the  banks  of  the  Yellow  River,  is  a  Turkish  immigration 
called  Sa-Ia.  The  Sa-la  are  divided  into  eight  tribes,  but  four  Tibetan  tribes  joined 
them,  making  in  all  twelve,  so  that  there  are  Tibetan  Mohammedans  as  well  as 
Mongols.  Some  of  the  Sa-la  speak  Tibetan  and  Chinese  as  well  as  their  mother 
Turki.  Three  or  four  days  south-west  is  Lapelong,  the  Tibetan  frontier-town,  so 
that  three  brethren  sent  by  the  Churches  to  three  nations,  could  live  in  Hochau 
and  acquire  the  tongues,  and  get  converts  for  spreading  the  knowledge  of  salvation 
in  Lassa,  Yarkand,  and  Uliasutai. 

It  must  be  ignorance  of  the  world's  state  that  keeps  back  young  men  from  offering 
themselves  for  these  glorious  openings.  If  I  could  possibly  have  peace  of  mind  in 
becoming  a  pastor  at  home,  knowing  what  I  do,  I  feel  I  would  shun  the  congrega- 
tion that  was  not  represented  by  a  foreign  missionary.  If  every  one  who  calls 
Jesus  Lord,  or  even  if  every  body  of  believers  were  in  earnest  that  none  should  be 
left  out  of  the  chance  of  being  saved,  would  all  these  regions  lie  much  longer  in 
outer  darkness?  Would  the  Bible  Society  ask  year  by  year  in  vain  for  a  qualified 
agent  for  Siberia  and  Russian  Turkestan  ?  Means  would  be  provided  to  enable 
the  Moravians  to  send  their  ready  men  into  Tibet  proper  and  Tartary.  The 
CM. S.  would  get  their  much-needed  "half  as  much  again,"  and  "half  as  many 
again,"  and  push  on  their  work  in  Beluchistan,  Afghanistan,  Kafiristan,  and 
Independent  Turkestan.  The  vast  regions  of  Eastern  Persia  would  be  taken  up  ; 
more  hearts  than  Brother  Connor's  would  feel  for  as  well  as  sing  about  "  Arabia's 
desert  rangers."  There  would  be  an  "  Indian  Inland  Mission  "  to  take  up  neglected 
parts  of  that  country.  The  seven  starving  regions  of  Africa,  mentioned  in  Dr. 
Mean's  pamphlet,  would  get  a  share  of  the  children's  bread  ;  a  missionary  geography 
would  be  in  the  homes  of  all  God's  families,  and  soon  parents  would  be  unable  to 
find  out  any  spot  upon  the  globe  where  Christ  was  not  named  to  which  to  devote 
their  children.  Alas  !  this  is  a  vision  of  what  ought  to  be,  and  not  what  is.  What 
a  blessed  outcome  of  all  the  tendencies  to  union  that  are  manifest  to-day  in  con- 
ferences, anil  on  Mr.  Moody's  platform,  if  it  took  a  missionary  turn,  and  the  bands 
of  God's  people  agreed  to  divide  the  world  amongst  them,  and  carry  the  gospel  of 
repentance  and  faith  to  every  creature  ! 

But  to  return  to  China.  The  chief  centres  in  the  north-west  dependencies  of 
China  are  each  from  400  to  600  miles  apart.  The  Chinese  speak  of  them  as  so 
many  "eighteen  stages."  Carts  take  nearly  a  month  to  accomplish  each  set  of 
stages. 

The  extensive  circulation  of  single  gospels  in  China  by  many  Institute  brethren 
is  telling  on  the  people  in  a  way  no  statistics  can  tabulate.  There  are  at  least 
20,000  Scriptures  in  circulation  in  this  province,  which  has  the  least  population  of 
the  eighteen.  On  my  last' journey,  the  inn-keeper  at  a  market  town  told  me  that 
a  lot  of  people  there  were  worshipping  Jesus.  I  thought  I  must  have  misunder- 
stood him,  and  replied,  "  I  hope  many  will  worship  Him  when  they  know  Him." 
He  continued,  "  They  worship  Him  now  according  to  the  books  you  sold  here  last 
year." 

Farther  on,  at  Tihtau,  a  man  came  up  to  me  in  the  street,  looked  at  a  gospel, 
and  exclaimed,  "Coming  it  is  Jesus,  going  it  is  Jesus,"  meaning,  now-a-days  we 
are  hearing  of  nothing  but  Jesus.  At  no  distant  date  "Jesus  books"  will  out- 
number Confucian.  All  we  want  is  the  manifestation  of  the  Holy  Spirit  to  enable 
all  who  confess  Christ  to  show  forth  His  virtues  and  convince  the  natives  of  sin. 

Yours  faithfully  in  Christ, 

George  Parker. 


RIVER   SCENE   IN   CHINA. 


Ah.  Steven  in    Yunnan.  139 

Another  former  student,  Mr.  Steven,  writes  last  year  from  his 
lonely  outpost  at  Talifu,  in  distant  Yunnan,  the  extreme  south-east 
of  China  : 

I  have  now  been  here  nearly  five  months,  after  my  long  journey  of  about  twelve 
weeks  from  Chun-king.  I  am  very  happy  and  comfortable  with  our  brother,  George 
W.  Clark,  whose  dear  wife  died  about  nine  months  ago,  leaving  him  alone  with  an 
infant  boy.  I  am  studying  as  I  am  able,  and  purpose  (D.V.)  to  take  a  missionary 
journey  to  the  north  of  this  province  as  soon  as  the  rainy  season  is  over. 

This  is  a  most  beautiful,  healthy  district.  The  city  is  about  6,000  feet  above 
the  sea-level,  and  we  have  mountains  behind  us  rising  over  6,000  feet  higher.  A 
vast  lake  lies  in  the  valley  outside  the  city  walls,  thirty  miles  long  and  seven  miles 
wide.  This  lake  is  the  source  of  the  river  Cambogia.  The  hills  are  snow-capped 
all  the  year  round.  This  is  the  city  where  "Tuwensha,"  the  Mohammedan  sultan, 
ruled  for  eighteen  years,  in  spite  of  all  the  efforts  of  China  to  put  him  down.  He 
was  overcome  at  last,  and  the  city  taken  by  treachery,  and  10,000  people  were 
slain  in  cold  blood  only  ten  years  ago. 

There  are  now  only  a  few  Mohammedans  in  the  city.  Their  mosques,  of 
which  there  were  scores  in  other  days,  have  all  been  demolished  or  turned  into 
idolatrous  temples.  Most  of  the  natives  of  the  city  have  their  hands  stained  with 
1)]o(m1,  and  their  hearts  are  hardened  thereby.  No  one  wants  to  hear  the  gospel. 
Out  of  pure  curiosity  one  or  two  come  to  see  us  occasionally,  but  no  one  desires 
our  message. 

Mr.  Steven  has  recently  been  joined  by  our  brethren  Foucar  and 
Smith,  and  has,  since  the  annexation  of  Upper  Burma,  left  them  in 
Yunnan  and  crossed  alone  the  difficult  and  disturbed  border  country 
between  China  and  Burma,  to  resume  work  in  Bhamo,  on  the 
Irrawaddy,  whence  the  missionaries  had  been  driven  during  the  late 
disturbances. 

The  following  description  of  the  home  and  work  of  our  former 
students,  Messrs.  Rilev  and  Nicoll,  at  Chun-king,  in  the  vast 
province  of  Si-chuen,  is  from  the  pen  of  Mr.  Henry  Soltau,  who  in 
1 88 1  crossed  China  from  Burma  to  the  sea-board,  visiting  the 
stations  as  he  passed  along. 

Sunday,  27th. — This  was  a  very  happy  day.  While  we  were  at  breakfast  the 
natives  held  a  prayer-meeting.  At  eleven  o'clock  we  nil  assembled  in  the  guest 
hall,  which  was  soon  filled  to  overflowing,  several  men  and  women  being  accom- 
modated with  seats  in  the  quadrangle.  It  was  a  cheering  sight  to  see  this  attentive 
congregation  of  at  least  fifty  or  sixty  persons  listening  with  quiet  interest  to  the 
service.  Mr.  Stevenson  was  asked  to  take  charge  of  the  meeting,  and  was  much 
delighted  to  find  himself  once  more  face  to  face  with  an  intelligent  and  well 
behaved  Chinese  audience. 

After  singing  a  hymn,  he  asked  one  of  the  Christian  natives  to  read  John  iv., 
and  then  prayed.  Another  hymn,  and  Mr.  Stevenson  gave  an  address,  which  was 
attentively  followed.  A  hymn  and  prayer  closed  the  meeting.  I  was  much  struck 
with  the  number  of  women  present,  all  of  whom  remained  to  the  close,  and  after- 


1 40  Mrs.  Nicoll  and  the  Chinese   Women. 

wards,  when  the  men  had  left,  had  a  service  by  themselves,  with  Mrs.  Nicoll  and 
the  old  Cantonese  Christian. 

This  work  among  the  women  is  a  most  important  portion  of  the  mission  here. 
They  pay  great  respect  to  Mrs.  Nicoll,  and  really  seem  to  have  an  affection  for  her, 
while  she  herself  is  deeply  interested  in  them,  finding  more  work  to  do  than  she 
can  compass.  I  could  not  help  feeling  what  an  honour  I  should  regard  it  had  I 
one  of  my  own  sisters  labouring  in  such  a  field  as  this. 

Mrs.  Nicoll  has  access  to  the  houses  of  the  rich  and  poor.  Some  of  the  women 
I  have  seen  here  have  been  dressed  in  the  most  handsomely  embroidered  silks  and 
satins,  and  come  in  chairs.  Mrs.  Nicoll  has  been  to  one  feast  since  we  have  been 
here.  Those  who  invite  her  will  take  no  refusal.  She  cats  with  chopsticks  on 
these  occasions,  but  only  a  very  little,  as  snails,  birdnests,  shark  fins,  and  all  such 
kinds  of  food  are  not  as  yet  considered  great  delicacies  by  her. 

When  at  this  feast  a  young  bride  came  home,  handsomely  dressed  and  decked 
out  with  artificial  flowers.  All  her  presents  followed.  I  asked  Mrs.  Nicoll  what 
the  people  talked  about  among  themselves  on  these  occasions.  She  said  that  after 
the  feasting  is  over  they  retire  into  side  rooms  and  discuss  the  quality,  price,  and 
beauty  of  their  silks,  satins,  ornaments,  and  shoes,  etc.  She  interests  them  in 
higher  things,  and  sings  hymns  to  them  in  Chinese  and  English,  and  seeks  to 
impress  upon  them  some  truths  about  Jesus  and  His  love.  And  she  is  the  only 
female  missionary  in  all  the  province  of  twenty-one  million  people  !  the  first 
Christian  woman  that  has  ever  lived  and  worked  among  the  women  of  Si-ch'uen  ! 

Mrs.  Nicoll  is  also  able  to  help  the  women  with  a  few  medicines,  and  Mr.  Nicoll 
is  quietly  getting  quite  a  practice  here  with  the  few  medicines  he  has  been  able  to 
purchase. 

This  wide  open  door,  these  thousands  of  souls,  and  only  three  brethren  and 
one  sister  beside  the  Bible  Society's  agents  !  Place  one  hundred  men  here,  and 
they  would  soon  be  all  occupying  important  towns  in  this  province  and  northern 
Yun-nan. 

But  to  return  to  my  account  of  Sunday.  After  dinner,  public  service  was  held 
n  the  front  preaching  hall.  The  organ  was  brought  out  and  played  by  Mr.  S. 
Clarke.  Very  soon  a  large  number  had  gathered,  all  the  seats  being  filled,  and 
others  standing  outside.  The  pedlar  was  there  with  his  boxes  of  silks,  ornaments, 
etc.  ;  the  orange  man  with  a  basket  full  of  fruit,  and  many  strollers  who  had 
been  attracted  by  the  music.     A  good  proportion  of  the  audience  were  women. 

Mr.  Nicoll  gave  out  a  hymn,  and  prayed.  After  another  hymn,  one  of  the 
evangelists  read  a  chapter,  and  Mr.  Nicoll  gave  an  earnest  and  simple  address. 
He  was  followed  by  the  young  evangelist  from  Canton.  After  another  hymn  the 
meeting  was  dismissed.  Many  went  out  and  several  more  came  in,  and  Mr. 
Stevenson  spoke  to  them.  He  was  followed  by  the  old  Canton  evangelist,  and 
then  by  the  convert  who  was  absent  last  night,  and  whose  address  was,  Mr. 
Stevenson  said,  the  best  of  all.  He  works  with  his  hands,  and  preaches  during 
his  leisure.     A  Sunday  school  was  subsequently  held. 

After  lea,  the  natives  had  a  meeting  by  themselves,  and  we  had  a  very  profitable 
meeting  for  remembering  the  Lord's  death  in  the  breaking  of  bread.  To  us,  who 
have  been  for  so  long  a  time  alone,  this  was  a  happy  time,  full  of  blessing.  We 
have  felt  much  grieved  to  see  Mr.  Nicoll  looking  so  ill  and  weak.  He  needs  a 
change.  When  they  went  into  the  country  for  rest  a  short  time  since  they  were 
unable  to  get  any  privacy  ;  crowds  came  about  them  whenever  they  walked  out, 
and  so  the  desired  rest  was  not  obtained. 


*-.     u 


S/.'l    .vl. 


'    ft 


--   fZ5 


U  MBI      K 


/  u 


/tFGjjI  ;y 


I 


#^  ic-  1  vxfJI  * 


TZ^zr^r"  yk  ■$  '  *  'P^> 


CHINESE    LADIES. 


142  Death  of  Jiff.  Riley. 

The  little  circle  here  is  a  very  happy  one,  and  we  have  much  enjoyed  our 
pleasant  visit  of  a  week  in  this  city.  Mrs.  Nicoll  made  all  the  party  thoroughly 
comfortable,  being  an  excellent  manager. 

We  have  received  the  greatest  kindness  from  all,  and  shall  ever  retain  a  deep 
affection  for  this  the  most  westerly  mission  station  on  the  Yang-tsi-kiang.  Pray 
much  for  this  place,  and  for  a  good  house  and  chapel,  which  are  both  greatly 
needed. 

Si-chuen  has  a  population  of  twenty  millions. 

Since  the  above  was  written  Mr.  Riley  has  been  taken  to  be  "  for 
ever  with  the  Lord." 

On  the  evening  of  the  last  day  of  May,  1886,  the  mails  from 
China  brought  the  sad  tidings  that  he  had  been  called  away  from  the 
work  to  which  he  had  gladly  devoted  his  life,  to  join  the  ranks 
above. 

Mr.  Riley  had  been  ill  for  some  time,  and  tor  several  mails  the 
report  had  been  that  it  was  very  doubtful  if  he  would  recover. 

Left  last  year  in  poor  health  with  three  motherless  babes,  our  brother  Mr.  Riley 
had  our  deep  sympathy  as  he  struggled  on  with  his  work.  Mrs.  Riley's  loss  was 
keenly  felt  by  all  in  Chen-t'u.  Miss  Stroud,  to  whom  she  had  been  as  a  dearly 
loved  elder  sister,  lovingly  took  the  entire  charge  of  the  children,  for  whom  she 
had  helped  to  care  from  their  birth.  Months  passed,  and  it  became  evident  that 
Mr.  Riley  must  have  a  complete  change  and  rest  before  the  summer  came  on. 
He  was  not  fit  to  go  away  alone,  so  he  asked  Miss  Stroud,  whose  sympathy  in 
their  mutual  sorrow  was  a  solace  to  him,  and  to  whom  he  had  become  attached,  to 
bring  the  children  and  the  servants  and  accompany  him.  Before  they  reached 
I-chang  he  became  seriously  ill,  and  one  day  had  fit  after  fit. 

At  I-chang  they  met  with  much  sympathy  and  kindness,  the  consul,  Mr. 
Gregory,  entertaining  them  and  giving  up  to  them  his  own  rooms.  The  doctor 
thought  very  seriously  of  Mr.  Riley's  case  ;  he  needed  nursing  as  only  a  wife 
could  nurse,  and  so  Miss  Stroud  and  he  concluded  to  be  married  at  once.  A  few 
friends  met  in  his  bedroom  on  March  9th,  and  the  ceremony  was  performed  by 
Rev.  A.  Dowsley  in  the  presence  of  the  consul. 

As  soon  as  possible  they  came  on  to  Shanghai,  where  Mr.  Taylor  was,  en  route 
for  Chi-fu.  It  was  a  great  comfort  to  them  to  meet  him,  and  there  was  some 
hope  that  after  a  long  rest  and  careful  nursing  he  might  rally,  but  on  Monday 
morning,  April  19th,  a  fit  came  on,  from  which  he  did  not  recover.  He  had 
been  in  China  nearly  eight  years,  was  still  young,  and  we  trusted  that  he  would 
yet  render  many  years  of  valuable  service  in  that  important  needy  city  of  Chen-t'u. 
The  Lord  has  taken  home  the  workers  who  began  the  work  ;  who  will  go  to  help 
to  carry  it  on  ?  We  feel  sure  that  many  hearts  will  be  touched  and  drawn  out  in 
prayer  for  the  dear  young  widow  and  her  sacred  charge. 

One  of  our  earliest  students  was  Mr.  A.  W.  Douthwaite,  from 
Sheffield.  He  joined  the  China  Inland  Mission  in  1874,  married  the 
following  year,  and  settled  in  Shao-hing,  one  hundred  miles  north 
of  Ningpo.     He  soon  acquired  the  language  fluently,  and  the  Lord 


Mr.  Douthwaite  at  Kiu-chau.  143 

blessed  his  ministry  from  the  first.  He  used  to  visit  a  number  of 
out-stations,  and  at  each  of  them  inquirers  soon  appeared. 

In  1875  ne  made  the  city  of  Kiu-chau  his  head-quarters.  This 
city  is  in  the  province  of  Cheh-kiang,  which  is  divided  into  four 
circuits,  much  as  Ireland  is  divided  into  Ulster,  Munster,  Leinster, 
and  Connaught.  There  is  this  difference  however,  that  while  Ireland 
contains  a  population  of  about  five  millions,  Cheh-kiang  contains 
twelve  millions ;  the  northern  and  western  circuits  are  very  densely 
populated,  and  Kiu-chau  is  the  capital  of  the  western  circuit.  The 
different  out-stations,  Lan-ki  and  Kin-hwa,  etc.,  were  worked  from 
this  centre.  A  number  of  very  interesting  inquirers  were  soon 
baptized,  and  native  Churches  sprang  up. 

In  Kiu-chau,  notwithstanding  the  bitter  hatred  of  the  people, 
which  they  made  no  effort  to  conceal,  there  was  soon  much  to 
encourage;  and  in  1878  Mr.  Douthwaite  baptized  the  first  two 
converts,  one  a  retired  tradesman  and  the  other  a  farmer.  Mr. 
Douthwaite  writes  : 

The  conversion  of  the  latter  is  very  interesting  to  us,  and  he  is  evidently 
being  much  used  by  God  in  saving  others.  He  lives  in  a  village  near  Yuh-shan- 
hien,  in  the  province  of  Kiang-si,  and  has  for  many  years  been  the  "  high  priest  "  of 
a  sect  of  vegetarians  ;  he  himself  has  been  a  vegetarian  for  forty-three  years,  and 
apparently  an  earnest,  though  misguided,  seeker  after  the  true  God.  He  first 
heard  the  gospel  in  March  last,  vvhert  he  was  visited  by  one  of  our  converts  from 
Kin-hwa,  with  whom  he  was  acquainted.  He  soon  became  convinced  that  he 
had  at  length  found  that  which  he  had  been  seeking  so  long  ;  and  without  delay 
started  for  this  city,  in  order  that  he  might  hear  more  of  this  wonderful  doctrine. 
He  remained  with  us  about  a  week,  and  seemed  so  happy  and  full  of  joy  that  we 
could  not  for  a  moment  doubt  that  he  was  duly  converted. 

As  it  was  necessary  for  him  to  return  home  he  asked  for  baptism ;  we  how- 
ever wished  him  to  wait  a  few  months,  until  he  should  more  clearly  understand 
the  subject.  "But,"  he  replied,  "I'm  now  an  old  man,  and  may  die  any  day  ;  I 
may  never  have  another  chance  :  so  why  not  receive  me  now  ? "  Therefore,  as 
we  were  quite  satisfied  as  to  his  conversion,  I  baptized  him,  and  sent  him  away 
rejoicing  in  Jesus. 

He  was  not  the  man  to  hide  his  light  under  a  bushel,  and  lost  no  time  in 
making  known  to  his  neighbours  the  glad  tidings  of  salvation.  He  converted  his 
house  into  a  chapel,  ami  every  Sabbath  day  gathered  his  friends  together  to  read 
the  Bible.  A  few  days  ago  he  came  here  again,  accompanied  by  six  other  men, 
who  have  been  awakened  by  his  preaching  to  feel  their  need  of  a  Saviour.  He 
says  there  are  many  others  who  wish  to  come,  but  at  present  are  unable  to  do  so. 
God  grant  that  they  may  all  become  true  disciples  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  earnest 
workers  for  the  salvation  of  their  fellow  countrymen  ! 

Mr.  Douthwaite  had  some  knowledge  of  medicine  before  he  went 
to  China,  and  he  has  since  graduated  as  a  medical  man.     But  even 


144  Cruel  Persecution  oj  Native  Christians. 

before  he  had  done  this  he  opened,  in  1876,  a  dispensary  for  the 
treatment  of  eye  diseases,  at  which  he  had  about  two  hundred 
patients  a  week,  for  such  diseases  are  very  common  in  China.  He 
found  medical  work  an  important  auxiliary  to  missionary  opera- 
tions, 

especially  in  opening  new  stations,  for  it  breaks  down  the  barrier  of  prejudice 
sooner  than  anything  else  could,  and  gives  one  access  to  the  more  wealthy  families, 
whose  doors  would  be  for  ever  closed  against  the  missionary  in  his  ordinary 
capacity.  Besides,  it  brings  hundreds  to  hear  the  gospel,  who  but  for  its  agency 
would  live  and  die  in  ignorance  of  the  grace  of  God.  One  of  the  men  I  have 
baptized  here,  and  four  of  those  now  on  probation,  were  first  brought  under  the 
influence  of  the  gospel  through  coming  for  medicine  ;  and  it  is  hardly  probable 
they  could  have  been  reached  by  any  other  means. 

The  charge  given  by  our  blessed  Saviour  to  the  twelve  missionaries  whom  He 
sent  forth  was,  "  Preach  the  kingdom  of  Go  J,  and  heal  the  sick,"  and  the  apostles 
faithfully  fulfilled  their  mission;  freely  they  had  received,  freely  they  gave.  Yet, 
notwithstanding  the  blessings  which  they  bestowed  so  freely  wherever  they  went, 
raising  the  dead,  healing  the  sick,  and  giving  sight  to  the  blind,  they  were  driven 
from  city  to  city,  and  persecuted  everywhere. 

This  same  spirit  of  intolerance  and  hatred  of  everything  good  is  unhappily 
still  in  existence,  and  may  be  seen  in  its  bitterest  intensity  in  China.  Not  many 
days  ago,  two  of  my  assistants  went  to  the  prefectural  city  of  Yen-chau  to  rent  a 
house  ;  but  as  soon  as  it  was  discovered  that  they  were  Christians,  they  were 
driven  from  the  inn  where  they  lodged,  and  the  following  day  were  seized  by 
the  literati,  dragged  to  a  temple,  severely  beaten,  and  compelled  to  bow  before 
an  idol.  Thus  the  heathen  still  "  rage,"  and  "the  rulers  take  counsel  together 
against  the  Lord  and  against  His  Anointed  "  ;  but  the  day  is  not  far  distant  when 
"  at  the  name  of  Jesus  every  knee  shall  bow,  and  every  tongue  confess  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  Lord." 

One  of  the  converts  baptized  in  1878  was  a  native  of  the  distant 
province  of  Kwei-chau,  formerly  a  Ya-men  official.  Twenty  years 
previously,  when  he  had  been  connected  with  the  Ya-men  at  Wun- 
chau,  a  foreign  missionary  visited  that  city,  and  this  man  had  to 
escort  him  over  the  land  to  Ningpo. 

On  the  way  this  foreigner,  who  was  a  Christian,  preached  the  gospel  to  him, 
and  exhorted  him  to  leave  the  Ya-men  and  seek  some  more  honest  employment. 
Tsiang  Siao-fung  was  so  impressed  with  what  he  had  heard  that  on  his  return  to 
YVun-chau  he  immediately  resigned  his  office  and  removed  to  Kin-hwa  fu,  where 
he  bought  a  piece  of  land  and  commenced  gardening,  at  which  occupation  he  still 
continues.  He  says  he  lost  some  hundreds  of  dollars  by  the  change  (a  sum  fully 
equivalent  in  China  to  hundreds  of  pounds  in  England),  but  he  does  not  regret 
the  loss  now,  for  God  has  made  it  up  to  him  by  giving  him  an  inheritance  n 
heaven. 

He  endeavoured  to  live  up  to  the  light  he  possessed,  and  having  procured  a 
copy  of  the  New  Testament  from  a  colporteur,  made  it  his  guide,  so  far  as  he 
could  understand  its  teaching. 


Mr.  Douthwaite  s  Anti-Opium  Hospital.  145 

When  we  opened  our  station  in  Kin-hwa  two  years  ago,  he  and  his  son  were 
among  the  first  who  went  to  hear  the  gospel,  and  soon  began  regularly  to  attend 
at  all  the  Sunday  services.  I  met  him  for  the  first  time  in  April,  1877,  and  was 
greatly  struck  with  his  simplicity  and  earnestness. 

A  few  months  after  I  baptized  his  son  Foh-nyiin,  and  now  the  father  has 
taken  the  decisive  step,  though  at  the  sacrifice  of  all  domestic  happiness ;  for  his 
old  mother,  whom  he  supports,  is  continually  raving  against  him. 

Mr.  Douthwaite's  wife  was  a  true  helpmeet  to  him  ;  he  wrote  : 

A  good  work  is  being  done  among  the  women  here.  Every  afternoon  when 
the  weather  is  favourable  they  come  streaming  in,  sometimes  thirty  in  one  batch. 
Mrs.  Douthwaite  has  them  upstairs  in  the  sitting-room,  where  she  plays  the 
harmonium  and  sings  for  them  ;  after  which  she  speaks  to  them  about  the  gospel 
as  long  as  they  will  listen,  and  finally  escorts  them  downstairs  again.  On  Sunday 
afternoon  the  women  are  so  numerous  that  we  find  it  difficult  to  seat  them  all, 
for  almost  every  woman  has  two  or  three  children  with  her.  The  poor  neglected 
creatures  are  not  able  to  understand  much  of  what  they  hear,  but  their  being 
received  in  a  kind  way  will  do  much  to  remove  the  suspicion  of  the  people.  Last 
year  there  was  a  rumour  about  that  we  seized  every  woman  who  dared  to  enter 
our  doors  and  kept  her  locked  up  in  an  inner  room  ! 

In  1880  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Douthwaite  were  obliged  to  leave  Kiu-chau, 
where  seventy  souls  had  been  baptized  during  their  stay,  in  con- 
sequence of  a  failure  in  Mr.  Douthwaite's  health.  They  went  to 
Wun-chau,  where  Mr.  Douthwaite  commenced  a  refuge  for  the  cure 
of  opium  smokers,  towards  which  the  foreign  residents  in  the  city 
contributed,  and  the  native  governor  even  helped.  He  always  had 
plenty  of  patients  on  dispensary  days,  and  abundant  opportunity 
for  preaching  to  them.  He  was  happily  very  successful  in  his  treat, 
ment  of  disease,  and  many  came  from  distant  places  and  carried 
back  the  gospel  to  their  own  homes  and  villages.  He  visited  many 
out-stations  and  neighbouring  places,  and  the  rumour  of  his  medical 
skill  spread  far  and  wide.  He  was  specially  successful  in  his  cures 
of  opium  smokers,  and  not  unfrequently  such  received  salvation  ot 
soul  as  well  as  of  body.     Mr.  Douthwaite  writes  : 

One  of  the  first  patients  in  the  Wun-chau  Anti-opium  Hospital  was  a  young 
man  named  Su  Hco-ming,  a  silversmith.  Originally  he  possessed  a  strong  con- 
stitution, but  the  terrible  vice  of  opium-smoking  had  reduced  him  to  a  "  mere 
anatomy."  His  face  was  pinched  and  yellow,  the  pupils  of  his  eyes  were  con- 
tracted, and  altogether  he  was  a  pitiable  specimen  of  humanity.  As  a  Chinaman 
very  expressively  remarked,  "He  carried  his  opium  sign-board  about  with  him." 

Soon  after  being  admitted  into  the  hospital,  he  began  to  attend  the  religious 
services  held  there  every  evening,  and  was  so  attracted  by  what  he  heard  that  he 
seized  every  opportunity  of  listening  to  the  gospel,  and  bought  a  New  Testament 
that  he  might  study  it  for  himself.  It  soon  became  evident  that  the  Spirit  of  God 
was  at  work,  and  that  not  only  his  mind  but  his  heart  also  was  influenced  by 
what  he  had  heard  and  read.     At  that  time  there  were  about  thirty  other  opium 


146 


smokers  in  the  hospital,  and  he  had  to  endure  much  petty  persecution  from  them 
for  believing  the  "foreign  doctrine  "  ;  but  he  bore  it  patiently,  and  when  he  was 
declared  cured,  and  permission  was  given  him  to  return  home,  he  begged  to  be 
allowed  to  remain  a  little  longer,  that  he  might  obtain  a  more  thorough  knowledge 
of  the  gospel  before  going  out.  He  stayed  in  another  fortnight,  during  which 
time  he  applied  himself  diligently  to  the  study  of  the  Scriptures,  and  when  he  left 
the  hospital  he  was  a  new  man,  both  physically  and  spiritually. 

When  he  reached  home  his  first  act  was  to  destroy  the  family  gods,  and  to 
clear  the  house  of  every  trace  of  idolatry.     Being  the  "  firstborn  "  of  the  family, 


The   Wun-chau  Hospital.  147 

no  one  could  interfere  to  prevent  him  carrying  out  his  purpose ;  but  his  mother 
and  his  brothers  endeavoured  by  entreaty  to  stop  the  work  of  destruction,  and  his 
married  sister  who  lived  near,  came  with  her  husband  and  neighbours,  and  in 
tears  besought  him  not  to  disgrace  his  family,  but  to  return  the  money  which,  they 
supposed,  he  had  received  as  a  bribe  to  become  a  Christian.  Finding  all  their 
entreaties  of  no  avail,  they  tried  cursing  ;  but  still  he  remained  unmoved,  and 
declared  his  conviction  that  idolatry  was  false,  and  his  decision  to  be  a  Christian 
at  any  cost.  Not  being  able  to  account  for  his  obduracy  in  any  other  way,  they 
concluded  that  he  must  be  under  some  magic  spell,  and  that  the  pills  he  had 
swallowed  while  in  tlte  hospital  had  changed  his  heart.  They  therefore  decided 
to  leave  him  alone  for  a  few  days,  hoping  he  would  meanwhile  be  restored  to  his 
right  mind. 

When  they  came  again,  to  their  great  dismay  they  found  that  not  only  was  he 
as  obdurate  as  ever,  but  his  mother  and  two  younger  brothers  had  also,  through 
his  influence,  renounced  idolatry.  This  puzzled  them  very  much,  until  some  sage 
neighbour  suggested  that  He-oming,  being  under  the  influence  of  the  foreign  drug, 
had  brought  some  of  the  magic  pills  home  with  him,  and  put  them  into  the  family 
water-pots,  and  that  all  who  drank  of  that  water  would  be  brought  under  the  spell 
of  the  ' '  foreign  devil. "  This  seemed  to  them  a  most  reasonable  explanation  ;  so 
to  prevent  any  others  being  affected,  they  immediately  emptied  all  the  water-pots, 
and  then  left  the  family  to  their  fate. 

The  following  Sunday  Heo-ming  appeared  at  the  mission  chapel,  accompanied 
by  his  mother  and  brothers,  who  continued  to  attend  the  services  regularly  for 
several  months,  when  they  asked  for  baptism,  and  after  a  few  months'  further 
testing,  they  were  all  received  into  Church  fellowship.  The  path  they  have  chosen 
is  by  no  means  an  easy  one,  for  they  are  still  subjected  to  much  annoyance  from 
their  neighbours,  and  one  of  the  young  men,  who  was  a  professional  vaccinator, 
has  lost  all  his  business,  because  he  can  no  longer  practise  the  idolatrous 
ceremonies  which  the  poor  heathen  mothers  have  been  taught  to  consider  necessary 
to  insure  successful  vaccination.  But  they  bear  all  this  persecution  with  a  meek- 
ness and  patience  that  would  put  to  shame  many  professing  Christians  in  our  own 
highly  favoured  land. 

Mr.  Douthwaite's  first  year's  report  of  the  Wun-chau  hospital  was 
a  deeply  interesting  document.  He  had  treated  during  the  year 
4,500  out-patients  and  45  in-patients,  the  great  majority  of  them 
being  for  eye  diseases,  many  of  which  are  caused  by  the  malpractices 
of  the  native  doctors.  He  performed  no  less  than  266  operations, 
mostly  on  the  eye,  and  cured  over  200  opium-smokers  from  twenty 
up  to  sixty  years  of  age.  The  average  consumption  of  opium  by 
these  patients  was  4  mace  per  day,  or  13  J  lbs.  per  annum.  He  came 
to  the  conclusion  that  there  were  about  r  0,000  opium-smokers  in  the 
city ;  their  consumption  would  consequently  be  about  1,300  chests 
of  the  crude  drug.     He  writes  : 

On  leaving  the  hospital  each  man  takes  a  supply  of  tonic  medicines,  so  the 
average  period  of  treatment  is  about  thirty  days. 

In  addition  to  the  patients  admitted  into  the  hospital,  thirty-five  men  and  two 
women  have  been  treated  for  the  opium  habit  in  their  own  homes ;  but  these  cases 


A   STREET    IN    CHINA. 


I43 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  Adams  at  Kin-hwa.  149 

are  very  unsatisfactory.  A  Chinaman  has  very  little  moral  courage  to  begin  with, 
and  one  of  the  chief  effects  of  opium-smoking  is  shown  in  the  destruction  of  every 
trace  of  any  good  quality  he  ever  did  possess.  Hence  very  few  can  be  cured  of 
their  pernicious  habit  while  exposed  to  the  temptations  by  which  they  are  now 
surrounded  in  every  town  and  village  in  the  empire.  Chinese  courtesy  requires 
that  a  cup  of  tea  be  offered  to  each  guest  as  soon  as  he  enters,  and  a  few  years 
ago  this  was  considered  sufficient  ;  but  now  in  many  Ya-men,  in  nearly  all  the 
large  houses  of  business,  and  in  many  private  houses,  an  opium-lamp  is  kept 
continually  burning  in  a  side  room,  into  which  visitors  who  smoke  are  invited  to 
retire,  a  invitation  which  few  have  the  courage  to  refuse. 

That  opium  is  a  great  curse  to  this  country  there  can  be  no  doubt,  neither  can 
there  be  any  doubt  as  to  the  guiltiness  of  the  British  Government,  which  for  no 
other  reason  than  greed  of  money  forced  the  Chinese  to  admit  the  drug  into  all  the 
treaty  ports. 

Mr.  Douthwaite  is  now  physician  to  the  hospital  established  at 
Chi-fu,  the  sanatorium  of  the  C.I.M.,  a  healthy  town  in  the  province 
of  Shang-Tung,  where,  in  conjunction  with  Mr.  Pruen,  he  is  orga- 
nizing a  long  projected  medical  school,  in  which  native  Christians 
may  gain  a  little  knowledge  of  those  diseases  which  every  missionary 
who  travels  is  called  upon  to  treat.  The  hospital  and  dispensary 
connected  with  this  school  had  in  1883  treated  3,500  cases. 

At  the  request  of  Dr.  Williamson,  of  the  Scottish  Bible  Society, 
Mr.  Douthwaite  in  1884  visited  the  Corea,  and  circulated  a  con- 
siderable number  of  copies  of  the  word  of  God.  '  He  was  informed 
that  the  country  was  shortly  to  be  closed  to  foreign  missionaries,  but 
was  there  before  any  prohibition  was  issued. 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  Adams,  who  were  at  Bhamo,  in  Burma,  for  some 
years,  are  also  now  settled  in  this  province  of  Cheh-kiang.  Their 
home  is  at  Kin-hwa,  formerly  an  out-station  of  Kiu-chan,  but  now 
separate.  The  following  letter,  which  we  received  from  Mr.  Adams 
recently,  gives  an  interesting  sketch  of  his  sphere  of  labour.  He  is 
connected  with  the  American  Baptist  Missionary  Union. 

Kin-hwa  fu,  CiiEii-KiAN<;  Province, 
Mar.  11//1,  1882. 
My  dear  Mrs.  Guinness,— 

It   is  just  seven  years   to-day  since   I  landed   in    Rangoon.      In  looking 
back  over  these  years  I  am  reminded  of  all  your  past  kindness. 

How  swiftly  the  time  has  gone  !  It  seems  like  a  dream  !  Such  alternations 
of  sunshine  and  shadow  !  Seasons  of  brave  cheer  and  joyful  service,  with  sad 
memories  of  failure,  discouragement.     .     .     . 

Spiritual  conflicts  are  real  ones,  but  there  is  a  sense  in  which  conflict  with  the 
evil  one  and  his  powers,  in  these  their  hoary  entrenchments,  seems  doubly  real. 


ISO 


Conflicts  and  Aspirations. 


SITTING-ROOM    IN   A   CHINESE   HOUSE. 


I  sometimes  think  how  glad  I  should  be  to  see  you  again,  but  unless  health 
ails,  /  don't  want  to  be  away  from  my  post  in  the  midst  of  the  heathen  when  the 
Lord  Jesus  comes ! 

We  are  thankful,  my  dear  wife  and  I,  to  know  that  many  pray  for  China 
We  would  like  to  ask  special  prayer  for  our  work,  that  many  souls  may  be  savecL 
I  will  tell  you  what  it  is  like,  that  you  may  the  more  intelligently  pray  for  us. 

Kin-hwa  FU  is  built  on  the  banks  of  a  stream  which  flows  into  the  Tsien- 
tang  River.  It  is  a  small  but  thickly  populated  city.  Dependent  upon,  and 
governed  by  it,  are  eight  other  cities  called  Mens,  as  "  Lanchi  hien,"  etc. 
These  eight  places  are  distant  from  twenty  to  sixty  miles  from  this  place.  Five  of 
them  are  reached  by  land,  three  by  water.  Slow  travel  in  China  makes  a  visit 
to  one  of  the  more  distant  cities  a  matter  of  a  week's  journey,  if  any  work  is  to 
be  clone. 

These  eight  Mens,  the  fit  city,  country  towns,  and  crowded  villages,  are  all 
considered  as  belonging  to  my  circuit.  I  have  to  visit  them  at  regular  intervals. 
When  there  the  plan  is  to  invite  any  respectable  listener,  who  seems  interested  in 
the  word,  to  come  and  stay  a  few  days  at  Kin-hwa  at  my  house  for  instruction. 
Going  a  round  of  the  hien  cities,  and  in  each  inviting  some  for  the  next  month,  a 
class  will  be  formed  of  six  or  eight  or  more  who  are  willing  to  learn,  and  whose 


Plan  oj    Work. 


I5i 


WHEELBARROW   TRAVELLING    IN   CHINA. 

intimate  acquaintance  with  the  private  life  ot  ourselves  and  the  native  pastor  and 
his  family,  confirming  from  observation  the  oral  instruction  received  during  a 
fortnight  or  so,  does  more  than  months  of  desultory  preaching.  Our  hope  and 
prayer  is  that  some  may  go  back  to  their  homes  with  the  seed  of  truth  which  shall 
ripen  into  fruit.  Their  report  of  their  treatment  while  with  us,  of  our  private 
lives,  of  our  hospitality,  of  our  doctrine,  will  remove  prejudices  and  open  our  way 
in  each  city.  Then  of  course  in  each  city,  at  each  visit,  the  gospel  is  preached, 
the  word  sold,  tracts  circulated,  and  visitors  instructed  at  our  inn,  calls  made  upon 
old  acquaintances,  etc. 

This  is  the  plan  of  the  work  outside  the  city  of  Kin-hwa  fu  itself. 

Within  the  city  we  have  sixteen  in  fellowship,  five  being  women.  They  are 
of  humble  station  in  society,  and  few  of  them  can  read  the  character.  My  first 
work  will  be  to  prepare  a  system  of  "  romanized  colloquial,"  and  translate  a 
gospel,  catechism,  and  hymns  for  their  use. 

One  of  the  number,  a  shopkeeper,  is  moving  to  the  city  of  Lanchi  (one  of  the 
hicns),  to  do  business  there;  another  member  goes  as  his  shopman.  Already  we 
have  one  convert  in  that  city.  This  will  make  three  in  all,  who  will  come  to- 
gether on  the  Lord's  day.  I  have  promised  to  go  every  month  for  the  Lord's 
supper,  and  eventually,  if  the  work  spreads  as  we  expect  it  will,  I  hope  to  rent  a 
house  there. 

The  feeling  in  my  mind   is  against  spending  money,  if  we  had  it,  in  opening 


152  Aii  Institute  Church. 

halls  and  putting  preachers  in,  unless  in  special  cases.  As  a  general  thing,  it  is 
better  to  let  the  seed  spring  up  in  a  place,  and  then  by  teaching  the  most  zealous 
send  them  forth,  still  continuing  their  daily  labour,  to  teach  what  they  have 
learned,  at  their  own  charges. 

The  converts  here  are  agitating  for  a  school  for  their  children  :  a  real  need, 
and  one  which  must  soon  be  satisfied,  for  it  is  wrong  to  let  the  children  of  Christian 
parents  go  to  a  heathen  school.  Such  a  school  could  be  managed  upon  ^15  per 
annum.  Probably  the  Church  would  raise  a  third  of  the  amount  ;  would  it  not  be 
an  acceptable  service  for  some  single  individual,  with  means,  to  support  such  a 
school  in  whole  or  in  part  ? 

This  is  a  mission  Church.  We  strive  to  do  all  we  can  for  ourselves  and  the 
heathen.  My  elder  and  deacon,  steward,  helper  in  every  way,  Chang,  is  most 
earnest ;  you  would  enjoy  a  talk  with  him.  I  hope  to  have  his  son  with  me  in  a 
few  weeks,  when  I  shall  begin  the  translation  referred  to. 

This  Church  is  specially  an  Institute  Church  !  Douthwaite  baptized  nearly 
half,  and  Henry  Taylor  the  other  half,  of  the  members.  I  have  now  taken 
charge  of  the  pastorate.  Seeing  then  that  this  work  is  one  be"gun  and  continued 
by  men  from  the  dear  old  Institute,  I  think  it  has  peculiar  claim  upon  your  sym- 
pathy.    Do  pray  for  all  of  its  interests. 

I  still  wear  the  native  dress,  and  find  it  a  convenience ;  but  the  head  shaving  is 
a  trial  to  me,  and  always  has  been. 

We  have  two  little  sons,  Arthur  Soltau,  three  years  and  nine  months  ;  Sidney 
Grant,  two  years.  We  left  our  infant  at  Wen-chow,  a  sweet  child  gathered 
home. 

I  have  had  a  famine  for  lack  of  new  books,  until  I  got  the  "  Approaching  End 
the  Age  "  a  few  days  ago.     I  am  enjoying  it  so  much. 

I  purpose  writing  more  frequently  than  I  have  done  in  the  past.  I  have  been 
very  silent ;  but  this  work  needs  prayerful  sympathy,  and  I  feel  it  would  be  wrong 
to  be  so  longer.  In  dependence  upon  our  wise,  loving  Father  then,  I  want  to 
use  my  pen  to  the  glory  of  His  name  and  the  furtherance  of  His  work  among  the 
heathen.  I  feel  jealous  too  for  China.  Africa  seems  to  have  centred  all  hearts 
and  eyes  upon  herself!  Here  in  China  are  the  dying  myriads  also  ;  let  them  have 
a  due  share  of  prayerful  solicitude.  With  warm  love  in  Christ  from  my  dear  wife 
and  myself, 

Believe  me,  dear  Mrs.  Guinness,  ever  faithfully  yours, 

Joseph  S.  Adams. 


Our  Russian  student,  Mr.  Mollmann,  returned  from  a  long  and 
successful  tour  of  colportage  in  the  west  of  China,  and  reported 
having  seen  the  following  proclamation  at  the  town  of  Shui  fu  : 

Take  Notice. 
The  books  that  the  foreigner  is  selling  are  printed  with  ink  made 
of  stupifying  medicine.  When  any  one  reads  them  for  a  time,  he 
becomes  stupified  and  loses  his  natural  reason,  and  believes  and 
follows  the  false  doctrine.  This  is  to  warn  the  Chinese  not  to  pur- 
chase or  read  them.     Again,  the  foreigners  use  much  money  to  bribe 


A  Chinese  Proclamation. 


153 


over  the  poorer  classes  of  Chinese  who  have  no  means  to  depend 
on.  They  also  use  the  stupifying  medicine  in  all  sorts  of  food,  in 
order  to  win  over  the  little  children.  At  times  they  use  it  for  kid- 
napping children,  whom  they  sell  to  foreigners.  Again,  they  use  it 
to  befool  them,  and  then  take  away  their  marrow ;  the  children 
immediately  die.  In  former  years  there  have  been  law  cases  about 
stupifying  and  kidnapping  children  at  Tien-tsin  and  Shanghai.  Where 
foreigners  come,  families  ought  to  warn  their  children  not  to  go  out. 


CHINESE   WOMEN. 


Proclamations  of  this  character  soon  give  rise  to  dangerous  lying 
rumours  or  "  agitating  reports,"  which  have  the  effect  of  stirring  up 
opposition,  and  lead  to  riots  in  which  the  property  of  the  mission- 
aries is  often  destroyed  and  their  lives  endangered. 

A  number  of  our  former  students  are  doing  good  work  in  con- 
nection with  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society  and  the  Scottish 
Bible  Society  in  China — one  is  with  the  Wesleyan  Missionary  Society 
and  two  with  the  American  Baptist  Missionary  Union. 


154  TJie  Berbers  of  Morocco, 

A  LAND  WITHOUT  THE  GOSPEL. 

The  empire  of  Morocco,  although  it  lies  so  close  to  Europe,  is 
one  of  the  least  known  regions  of  the  earth.  Distant  only  eight  or 
ten  miles  from  Gibraltar,  and  within  four  days'  sail  of  London,  it  is 
comparatively  little  visited,  and  was  until  the  last  year  or  two  totally 
iincvcuigelizcd.  Before  speaking  of  the  effort  which  we  are  now 
making  to  send  the  gospel  to  the  inhabitants  of  this  dark  part  of  the 
earth,  we  will  recall  a  few  facts  as  to  its  size,  climate,  productions, 
government,  past  history,  and  present  condition. 

The  empire  of  Morocco  extends  over  a  country  nearly  twice  as 
large  as  the  British  islands,  and  considerably  larger  than  France. 
Its  population  is  however  comparatively  small,  and,  being  conse- 
quently widely  scattered,  is  more  difficult  to  reach.  It  averages  only 
about  thirty  to  a  square  mile,  being  variously  estimated  as  from  six 
to  eight  millions.  The  great  Atlas  Mountains  traverse  Morocco  in 
several  parallel  ranges  from  S.W.  to  N.E.,  many  peaks  attaining  a 
height  of  1,200  and  1,300  feet,  and  being  snow-capped  for  part  of  the 
year.  This  lofty  barrier  preserves  the  country  from  the  hot  sand- 
winds  that  blow  across  the  Sahara  to  the  south  of  it,  and  contributes, 
with  the  sea  breezes  from  the  Atlantic,  to  give  it  a  pleasant  tempera- 
ture, varying  between  400  and  900  Fahrenheit,  so  that  it  enjoys  an 
almost  perfect  climate. 

The  valleys  and  plains  are  extremely  luxuriant,  producing  wheat, 
barley,  rice,  maize,  sugar-cane,  dates,  oranges,  figs,  cotton,  tobacco, 
etc.,  many  of  them  even  without  cultivation. 

The  country  is  inhabited  by  several  widely  differing  races.  Euro- 
peans, Moors,  Berbers,  Arabs,  negroes,  Jews,  and  every  degree  of 
intermixture  between  these  races.  The  Moors  are,  of  course,  the 
dominant  race,  and  number  about  three  millions ;  the  Berbers  or 
aborigines  are  the  next  in  order  and  about  equally  numerous ;  then 
come  the  Arabs  and  Jews ;  the  number  of  professing  Christians 
residing  in  the  empire  is  small,  and  composed  chiefly  of  Spaniards. 

The  government  is  purely  despotic,  and  in  the  absence  of  written 
laws  the  will  of  the  sultan  and  his  subordinates  decides  everything. 
As  usual  in  all  Moslem  countries,  the  public  officials  eke  out  their 
allowances  by  practising  extortion  on  those  under  them,  and  are  in 
turn  plundered  by  their  superiors,  so  that  the  state  of  civilization  is 
of  course  very  low. 

With  the  exception  of  the  Jews  and  the  Europeans,  the  whole 
population  is  Mohammedan.     Negroes  arc  brought  into  the  country 


\ 


and  their  Story.  155 

from  the  Soudan,  and  publicly  sold  in  the  cities.  Education  consists 
in  learning  to  read  and  recite  portions  of  the  koran  ;  but  the  art  of 
printing  is  unknown,  and  all  the  arts  and  sciences  are  at  a  very  low 
ebb.  The  Moors  produce  fine  silks  and  leather,  and  some  few 
articles  of  a  superior  quality.  They  can,  indeed,  prepare  and  dye 
leather  almost  better  than  any  country  in  Europe,  owing  apparently 
to  the  employment  of  some  kind  of  plant  found  in  their  country.  A 
caravan  trade  exists  between  Morocco  and  the  Soudan,  and  also 
with  Mecca ;  but  there  is  no  transmarine  commerce. 

The  city  of  Morocco,  capital  of  the  empire,  is  situated  in  the 
south-west  of  the  country  at  the  north  end  of  an  extensive  and  fertile 
plain.  It  is  surrounded  by  a  strong  lime  and  earth  wall,  thirty  feet 
high  ;  but  is  badly  built,  with  narrow,  irregular,  unpaved  streets,  the 
palace  of  the  sultan  standing  outside  the  walls,  and  occupying  a 
space  of  180  acres. 

The  most  interesting  section  of  the  population  of  Morocco,  as 
well  as  probably  the  largest,  is  that  composed  of  the  Berbers  or 
aborigines  of  the  country.  Prior  to  the  Arab  invasions  of  the  seventh 
century,  prior  to  the  Vandal  invasions  of  the  fifth,  prior  to  the  still 
earlier  Roman  conquest,  these  races  occupied  the  land  as  their  own, 
and  they  occupy  it  still.  They  are  of  Semitic  origin,  spread  all 
across  North  Africa,  from  the  Atlantic  coast  on  the  west  to  the 
shores  of  Tunis  and  Tripoli,  dwelling  in  the  vales  and  on  the  sides 
of  the  greater  and  lesser  Atlas  ranges  especially,  but  extending  also 
to  the  plains  and  even  to  the  Mediterranean  shores.  They  out- 
number the  Arabs  and  the  negroes  in  the  empire  of  Morocco  three 
to  one,  and  are  by  some  computed  to  be  even  more  numerous  than 
the  Moors. 

All  the  Berber  or  Barbary  tribes  are  distinguished  by  speaking 
some  dialect  of  the  Shelluh  (pronounced  Shloo)  language  ;  those  in 
Morocco  speak  principally  the  Souze  and  the  Rifiian  dialects  of  it, 
and  those  in  Algeria  the  Kabyle.  While  marked  differences  exist 
between  these  dialects,  as  might  be  expected,  seeing  the  tribes  are 
separated  from  each  other  by  hundreds  of  miles  of  mountainous 
country,  yet  they  are  so  closely  cognate  as  to  be  clearly  branches 
from  one  root. 

The  Berbers  of  Morocco  are  very  unlike  their  Arab  and  Moorish 
neighbours,  and  still  more  unlike  the  negroes  who  come  up  from  the 
south  as  slaves.  They  have  long  faces  of  a  sallow  complexion,  high 
cheek  bones,  and  eyes  not  so  dark  as  those  of  the  Moors.     They  are 


156  Pirates  till  1816. 

decidedly  superior  to  the  other  inhabitants  of  the  country  in  intelli- 
gence, industry,  and  general  activity.  Instead  of  being  idle,  dreamy, 
and  addicted  to  the  use  of  narcotics,  like  the  Arabs,  they  are  hard- 
working, painstaking,  and  skilful  in  agriculture,  full  of  curiosity,  and 
more  capable  of  giving  intelligent  information  to  the  traveller  than 
their  neighbours.  They  build  themselves,  in  the  valleys  of  the 
Atlas,  substantial  stone  houses,  two  storeys  high,  with  flat  roofs,  and 
are  very  hospitable  to  strangers.  They  are  extremely  independent  in 
character,  and  have  always  proved  hard  to  conquer. 

Horde  after  horde  of  Arab  and  Turkish  invaders  deluged  their 
valleys  and  plains,  and  the  Berbers  had  to  give  way  before  them  ; 
but,  descending  after  a  time  from  their  mountain  strongholds,  they 
drove  away  their  conquerors  and  threw  off  the  yoke,  only  to  be 
again  subdued  a  little  later  on.  Turkish  authority  was  at  last 
established  in  Tripoli,  Fez,  and  Tunis ;  but  Algiers  and  Morocco 
founded  independent  dynasties,  and  were  lost  to  the  caliphs,  though 
devoted  to  Islam.  All  the  Berber  tribes  were  forced  to  profess 
themselves  Mohammedans,  though  far  from  cordial  adherents  to  the 
faith  of  their  conquerors. 

In  the  fifteenth  and  sixteenth  centuries  the  Moors,  driven  out  ot 
Spain,  settled  in  Morocco  and  Algiers,  and  began  to  revenge  them- 
selves on  their  persecutors  by  piracy.  Gradually  they  and  the  still 
more  audacious  pirates  of  Tunis  became  the  scourges  of  European 
commerce,  preying  upon  the  shipping  of  all  nations,  and  enslaving  al 
the  Christians  they  captured.  The  slaves,  of  whom  there  were 
sometimes  20,000  at  a  time,  were  treated  with  the  utmost  cruelty, 
and  never  released  except  for  high  ransoms.  In  seven  years,  from 
a.d.  1674  to  1681,  no  less  than  350  European  vessels  were  captured 
and  5,000  or  6,000  English  slaves  taken  into  Algiers.  So  much 
were  these  pirates  dreaded,  that  one  nation  after  another  actually 
compounded  with  them  for  an  annual  tribute,  till  at  last  they  grew 
so  rich  and  so  audacious  that  Europe  could  stand  it  no  longer.  In 
18 16  Lord  Exmouth  bombarded  Algiers,  liberated  over  3,000 
Christian  slaves,  and  extorted  from  the  sultan  a  treaty  abolishing 
Christian  slavery  for  ever.  In  1830  the  French  conquered  and 
annexed  Algiers. 

Till  within  the  last  year  or  two  not  a  single  Protestant  missionary 
was  labouring,  either  among  the  Berbers  or  the  Moors,  all  the  way 
from  Mogador,  on  the  Atlantic,  to  Alexandria,  in  Egypt. 

It  seems  almost   incredible   that  within   a   week's  journey  from 


Barbarous  Cruelty.  157 

England— that  great  focus  of  gospel  light,  whence  emanate  rays 
which  reach  even  to  the  ends  of  the  earth — there  should  be  a  whole 
set  of  countries,  blessed  with  a  glorious  climate,  rich  in  natural  re- 
sources, and  open  to  gospel  effort,  yet  totally  unevangelized,  though 
sunk  in  the  deepest  spiritual  darkness  for  the  last  1,500  years. 

Yet  such  has  been  the  case  with  all  the  Berber  nations  of  North 
Africa,  until  the  recent  commencement  of  the  Kabyle  mission  in 
Algeria ;  and  such  is  still  the  case  with  by  far  the  greater  part  of 
them. 

The  following  sketch  by  Rev.  Newman  Hall  of  what  he  himself 
heard  and  saw  in  Tangier  will  give  a  little  idea  of  the  legal 
brutality  which  is  flourishing  undisturbed  in  this  Mohammedan 
country. 

He  had  heard  much  of  the  miserable  condition* of  the  prisoners 
in  the  gaol — 

that  a  small  piece  of  black  bread,  insufficient  to  maintain  life,  is  alone  allowed, 
and  no  water  ;  that  numbers  die  in  gaol  from  filth  and  famine  ;  that  charges  are 
trumped  up  for  the  sake  of  extracting  money;  that  those  who  can  pay  are  re- 
leased and  the  penniless  and  friendless  die  ;  that  the  emperor  squeezes  all  he  can 
out  of  his  officials,  these  out  of  their  subordinates,  these  out  of  the  people  ;  and 
that,  as  for  the  prisoners,  the  governor  reckons  them  as  revenue,  and  not  as 
expense. 

I  resolved  to  see  for  myself,  and  went  up  in  the  afternoon  with  my  Moor  and 
a  man  bearing  as  many  loaves  as  he  could  carry.  There  was  no  difficulty  in 
getting  access  to  the  entrance  lobby,  where  the  gaoler  abides.  In  the  wall  is 
a  round  hole,  about  a  foot  in  diameter,  through  which  I  looked  into  a  sort  of  den, 
with  two  grated  openings  in  the  roof.  Here  about  thirty  men  were  confined. 
Through  a  similar  opening  I  looked  into  what  may  have  been  the  ground-floor  of 
a  house,  with  small  open  court  in  the  centre,  with  recesses.  Here  were  about 
sixty  men  promiscuously  herding  together.  Some  were  lying  or  sitting  on  the 
stone  floor,  some  lounging  about,  the  ankles  of  several  being  chained  together. 
When  it  is  considered  they  have  no  change  of  dress,  or  washing  of  clothes  or 
person,  and  that  there  is  the  absence  of  arrangements  needless  to  explain,  it  can- 
not be  a  wonder  that  the  odour  through  the  opening  rendered  it  difficult  to  look 
long  enough  for  the  eye  to  get  accustomed  to  the  darkness  so  as  to  see  dis- 
tinctly. 

But  enough  and  more  than  enough  was  witnessed  !  I  shall  not  soon  forget 
the  haggard,  hungry  looks  of  those  near  the  opening,  nor  the  eager,  clutching 
hands  that  grasped  the  bread.  True  enough,  they  had  no  water.  The  prisoners 
may  buy  it  through  the  gaoler,  or  receive  it  from  their  friends  ;  while  those  who 
have  neither  money  nor  friends  depend  on  the  few  drops  others  may  spare  them. 
And  it  may  happen  sometimes  that  none  at  all  reaches  them.  It  may  have  been 
so  this  day.  There  was  no  well  or  cistern  in  the  upper  part  of  the  town,  where 
the  gaol  is,  so  we  descended  into  the  market-place,  but  trade  was  over  for  the 
day,  and  the  water-skin  carriers  had  gone.  An  hour  elapsed  before  we  found 
three  men  with  water-barrels,  who  for  a  few  pence  climbed  the  steep  path.     The 

L 


Mr.  Macintosh's  Description,  159 

gaoler  unlocked  a  small  door,  by  which  the  barrels  were  passed  in.  The  gurgling 
of  the  water,  as  it  was  emptied,  mingled  with  the  grateful  murmur  of  the  prisoners 
and  the  dismal  clanking  of  their  chains. 

Next  morning  another  supply  of  bread  was  taken,  and  eight  men  carrying 
skins  full  of  water.  These  eight  men  were  satisfied  with  a  fraction  more  than  one 
penny  each.  Yet  to  save  so  small  a  cost  so  great  a  cruelty  is  inflicted  !  It  was 
delightful  to  see  some  of  the  men  availing  themselves  of  this  supply  to  indulge  in 
the  rare  luxury  of  a  wash.  The  gratitude  of  these  poor  creatures  for  so  small  a 
gift  was  distressing.  One  said  to  my  guide,  "  People  bring  us  food,  but  they 
seldom  think  of  the  water."  My  guide  told  me  that  sometimes  there  are  twice  as 
many  prisoners,  and  that  in  the  summer  the  stench  is  intolerable.  If  any  of  them 
are  sick  no  doctor  visits  them,  and  no  extra  food  or  medicine  is  given.  If  they 
have  small-pox  or  cholera,  however  infectious  or  loathsome  the  disease,  they  re- 
main among  the  rest.     No  wonder  deaths  are  frequent  ! 

A  fellow  traveller,  seeing  a  corpse  carried  along  the  street,  asked  who  it  was. 
"From  the  gaol."  What  disease?  "Very  likely  starvation."  Is  it  not  mon- 
strous that  such  cruelty  as  this  should  be  perpetrated  within  four  hours  of  our  own 
territory  ? 

Sketches  in  Morocco. 

Mr.  Macintosh,  who  is  now  working  with  the  Bible  Society  in 
Morocco,  writes  : 

If  any  one  wishes  to  see  degraded  heathen  darkness,  he  does  not  need  to  go  to 
Central  Africa.  Let  any  of  us  enter  a  Moorish  town,  and  especially  one  of  the 
country  fairs  that  are  held  in  succession  at  different  places  during  every  day  of  the 
week  ;  take,  for  example,  the  one  held  outside  the  walls  of  Tangier  every  Thurs- 
day and  Sunday,  and  see  if  the  masses  gathered  there  from  the  surrounding 
country  do  not  exhibit,  spiritually  and  physically,  a  spectacle  of  human  degrada- 
tion and  misery,  pitiable  in  the  extreme  and  sorrowful  to  behold,  that  may  well 
attract  the  sympathy  and  awaken  the  efforts  of  the  followers  of  Him  who  came  to 
seek  and  to  save  the  lost. 

Mohammedanism,  like  the  other  religions  that  depend,  in  the  case  of  their 
converts,  on  something  short  of  a  vital  and  total  change  of  heart  and  life  by  the 
pure  and  all-powerful  creating  Spirit  of  God,  is  satisfied  with  a  mere  change  o 
name  and  external  formula  of  a  creed,  while  the  stock  remains  the  same  as  it  ever 
was.  Thus  it  is  that,  while  it  has  professed  to  convert  heathens,  the  conversion 
in  the  mass  has  been  practically  only  from  the  idea  of  a  plurality  of  gods  to  that 
of  one  god,  while  to  a  great  extent  the  vice  and  superstition  of  a  heathen  life  have 
been  left  unchanged  and  unchecked,  to  grow  and  flourish  side  by  side  with  a  germ 
of  truth,  the  unity  of  God.  "They  feared  the  Lord,  and  served  their  own  gods, 
after  the  manner  of  the  nations  whom  they  carried  away  from  thence  "  (2  Kings 
xvii.  33). 

Let  us  visit  some  of  the  fairs  I  have  referred  to,  and  see  "  the  serpent  charmers  " 
charming  the  crowds  of  poor  Moors,  covered  with  filth  and  rags,  that  surround 
them*  with  their  base  and  disgusting  performances,  and  the  diabolical-looking 
"  sorcerers,"  with  an  assembly  nearly  as  numerous,  lost  in  wonder  and  admiration 
at  their  deceptions  ;  and  the  "  story-tellers,"  in  the  midst  of  their  audiences,  being 
applauded  at  the  rehearsal  of  the  most  corrupt  and  lying  stories. 

And    all   these   depraved  deceivers   of  the  people   the  religion   of  the   country 


160  Mission  to  the  Berbers. 

countenances,  and  in  no  way  would  attempt  to  counteract  their  evil  teaching. 
But,  on  the  contrary,  you  may  be  present  another  day  at  still  more  hideous 
spectacles  than  those  to  be  witnessed  at  the  fairs,  enacted  on  special  feast  days  in 
the  very  name  of  religion.  They  are  to  be  seen  at  processions,  conducted  in  the 
memory  of  the  birth,  death,  or  deeds  of  some  of  their  famous  so  called  "saints," 
in  the  case  of  many  of  whom  the  only  title  to  saintship  has  been  their  depravity 
and  cruelty. 

At  these  processions,  crowds  assembled  from  different  parts  of  the  country, 
many  of  whom  feign  madness  for  the  day,  while  others  have  been  really  wild  and 
degraded  maniacs  for  years.  In  the  course  of  their  march  they  frequently  stop, 
form  a  circle  of  thirty  or  forty  men  in  the  middle  of  the  road,  including  the  half- 
naked  madmen ;  and  with  long  dishevelled  hair,  and  foaming  mouths,  go  through 
the  most  repulsive  and  unmeaning  ceremonies,  throwing  their  heads  first  forward 
and  then  backward  in  quick  succession,  and  all  together,  with  a  loud  and  hideous 
grunt  and  with  the  greatest  violence,  so  the  bystanders  wonder  that  their  necks  are 
not  broken,  and  their  heads  thrown  off  their  bodies.  This  ceremony  is  continued 
with  horrid  and  debasing  monotony,  until  the  crowd  is  tired  of  looking  at  them. 
Then  they  pass  on  a  hundred  yards,  and  do  exactly  the  same  over  again.  This 
ceremony  is  repeated  at  intervals  many  times  along  the  road,  and  is  continued 
during  the  greater  part  of  the  day. 

It  would  seem  as  if  the  piracy  and  slavery  which  were  so  long  and  so  viciously 
practised  against  Europeans  by  the  Moors,  or  people  of  Morocco,  and  maintained 
to  so  recent  a  date,  had  inspired  them  with  such  a  dread  and  feeling  of  alienation 
towards  both  the  region  and  name  of  the  "  Moor,"  that  their  very  abolishment  has 
become  a  signal  for  bidding  a  long  farewell  to  that  land,  once  the  terror  of  Europe. 
For  many  years  past  there  has  been  no  desire  but  to  leave  the  Moor  to  himself,  and 
have  nothing  more  to  do  with  him,  so  that  literally  he  has  been  shut  up  as  a 
prisoner  in  his  own  land  and  buried  in  oblivion,  with  no  one  to  care  for  his  release, 
or  disemtomb  the  unrelenting  pirate  and  slave  master  any  more. 

So  thoroughly  has  this  been  done,  that  to  prevent  him  from  coming  out  on 
the  high  seas  again,  all  his  ships  were  destroyed,  and  to  this  day  not  one  is  per- 
mitted to  him  beyond  the  few  lighters  or  barges  that  lie  in  the  ports  of  call,  to 
carry  goods  to  and  from  the  English  and  French  steamers  and  the  shore. 

In  villages  that  I  have  visited  considerable  groups  have  gathered  round  me, 
and  have  listened  with  attention  and  interest  while  I  have  read  and  spoken  to 
them  from  the  Bible.  At  one  village,  where  I  gave  an  intelligent  young  man  an 
Arabic  gospel  on  loan  until  I  should  return  a  second  time,  he  immediately  went 
off  and  brought  me  a  dish  of  fresh  milk. 

The  council  of  the  Mission  to  the  Karyles  and  other  Ber- 
ber races  of  North  Africa,  of  which  we  are  members,  has 
recently,  in  dependence  on  God,  undertaken  work  in  this  destitute 
land. 

This  mission  had  already  been  at  work  for  some  years  among  the 
Kabyles  of  Algeria,  having  one  station  in  Kabylia,  another  in  Con- 
stantine,  and  another  in  Oran.  It  has  now  an  evangelistic  and  a 
medical  mission  in  Tangier. 

To  secure  suitable  premises  in  which  to  commence  operations  is 


Hope  House,  Tangier.  161 

a  first  necessity  in  all  missions.     In  Kabylia  we  had  to  build,  and 
a  very  troublesome  and  expensive  process  it  was  ! 

Providentially,  a  European-built  and  substantial  stone  house  hap- 
pened to  be  on  sale  in  Tangier  just  at  the  time  we  wanted  one.  The 
premises  are  near  enough  to  Tangier  for  all  practical  purposes,  are 
yet  outside  the  walls,  and  at  a  sufficient  distance  from  the  town  to 
be  pure  and  healthy.  They  stand  detached  in  their  own  grounds, 
and  were  built  by  an  English  gentleman,  officially  resident  at 
Gibraltar,  for  the  occupation  of  his  own  family  about  six  years  ago. 
Circumstances  having  led  to  this  gentleman's  return  home,  he  has 
no  longer  any  use  for  the  house,  and  was  willing  to  part  with  it  for 
half  the  sum  it  cost  him  to  build. 

The  house  is  situated  on  the  Marshan,  a  tract  of  land  to  the 
south-west  of  the  city  of  Tangier.  It  stands  200  feet  above  the 
level  of  the  sea,  and  about  fifteen  minutes'  walk  from  the  landing- 
pier  in  the  Bay  of  Tangier.  The  prospect  from  it  is  beautiful.  To 
the  north  are  the  Straits  of  Gibraltar,  on  the  other  side  of  which  the 
Spanish  coast  and  the  mountains  right  up  to  the  Cape  Trafalgar  can 
be  distinctly  seen.  All  vessels  entering  and  leaving  the  Mediter- 
ranean pass  under  the  windows  of  the  house.  To  the  west  stretches 
the  broad  Atlantic,  from  which,  even  in  the  height  of  summer,  cool 
and  refreshing  breezes  blow,  thus  relieving  the  great  heat  which 
would  otherwise  be  oppressive.  To  the  east  lies  the  city  of  Tangier 
and  beyond — the  Apis  Mountains— one  of  the  Pillars  of  Hercules ; 
and  away  in  the  south  and  south-east,  beyond  the  nearer  mountains, 
stretches  the  vast  empire  of  Morocco,  with  its  six  millions  of  un- 
evangelized  souls. 

The  buildings  stand  on  about  two  acres  of  ground,  most  of  which 
slopes  towards  the  sea. 

At  a  little  distance  from  the  house  is  another  well-built  structure, 
containing  stabling  for  three  or  four  horses,  and  four  other  rooms, 
with  good  laundry,  bakehouse,  etc.  There  is  besides  a  fowl-house 
and  inclosed  yards,  and  a  large  underground  tank,  holding  a  hundred 
thousand  gallons  of  rain-water,  which  in  a  dry  season  would  be 
invaluable.  There  is  also  a  small  gardener's  cottage  and  a  summer- 
house.  The  premises  can  be  easily  adapted  for  mission  purposes. 
A  dispensary  and  medical  mission  are  established  in  the  out-build- 
ings, while  the  house  is  the  residence  of  one  or  two  mission  families, 
besides  affording  accommodation  for  school  and  other  branches  of 
mission  work. 


1 62 


The  Province  of  Oran, 


Here  is  established  the  first  Christian  mission  in  Morocco, 
and  hence  we  hope  many  a  Berber  native  agent  will  go  forth  to  pro- 
claim the  glad  tidings  among  the  African  tribes  in  the  valleys  of  the 
Atlas  Mountains.  Nine  of  our  former  students  are  working  in  con- 
nection with  this  Mission  to  the  Berbers  of  North  Africa  : 
five  in  Oran,  one  in  Kabylia,  one  in  Constantine,  one  in  Tunis,  and 
one  in  Tangier. 


M.  Mercadier  is  in  the  province  of  Oran,  in  Algiers,  and  is  now 
able  to  make  himself  understood  in  Arabic.  He  has  been  studying 
this  difficult  language  for  some  time,  and  is  delighted  with  his  suc- 
cess. He  reads  the  gospel  stories  to  the  people,  who  are  always  very 
willing  to  listen  and  discuss,  though  they  are  full  of  stupid  Arabic 
legends  about  Jesus  Christ,  which  prove  a  great  obstacle  to  the 
reception  of  the  truth.  After  a  discussion  meeting,  M.  Mercadier 
always  hands  to  those  who  can  read  an  Arabic  gospel.  He  intro- 
duced a  Bible  into  the  Tolber,  or  Arabic  school,  three  months  ago, 
and  both  master  and  students  are  reading  it  with  a  remarkable  degree 
of  interest.  They  have  a  great  objection  to  the  doctrine  of  pardon ; 
the  self-righteousness  common  to  humanity  leads  them  to  reject  it 
with  indignation.  M.  Mercadier  has  a  Sunday-school  among  the 
Europeans  in  Oran,  and  conducts  other  services  amongst  them  in 
different  parts  of  the   province.     He  distributes  large  numbers  ot 


and  City  of  Tlentcen,  Algiers.  163 

tracts,  and  finds  everywhere  an  eager  desire  to  get  copies  of  the 
Scriptures.  He  is  very  anxious  to  open  a  room  for  soldiers  in  Oran, 
and  also  for  work  among  the  Spaniards,  and  would  be  glad  of  any 
help  towards  this  object,  as  also  for  a  tent  mission,  which  he  is  anxious 
to  undertake  in  the  villages  during  the  summer. 

Our  brother,  Mr.  Liley,  is  getting  to  feel  comparatively  at  home  in 
his  sphere  among  the  Berbers  at  Tlemcen.  He  visits  the  cafes,  the 
mosques,  the  markets,  the  neighbouring  villages,  etc.,  and  is  visited 
by  all  sorts  of  people,  some  coming  for  medicine,  others  to  get  him 
to  write  letters  for  them,  others  for  books  and  tracts,  or  to  offer 
articles  for  sale.  He  is  becoming  known  in  the  town  and  neigh- 
bourhood, and  is  often  greeted  by  the  appellation  marabout,  mean- 
ing priest ;  but  every  religious  worker  is  called  marabout  by  the  Arab. 
Mr.  Liley  writes  :  "  I  seem  to  be  known  wherever  I  go,  and  the 
Arabs  know  why  I  am  here.  I  distribute  gospels,  tracts,  etc.,  wher- 
ever it  is  possible,  and  I  know  they  are  read,  not  only  by  the  person 
to  whom  they  have  been  given,  but  by  them  to  others  who  cannot 
read.  God  grant  these  silent  messengers  may  bring  forth  fruit  in  the 
salvation  of  some  of  these  people !  " 

The  population  of  Tlemcen  is  very  various,  and  opportunities  of 
intercourse  with  the  different  nationalities  are  plentiful,  as  the  follow- 
ing extracts  from  Mr.  Liley's  diary  will  show  : 

Called  at  a  house,  and  found  two  marabouts,  with  whom  I  had  conversation,  and 
gave  them  a  gospel  each  in  Arabic.  I  next  visited  a  Moorish  bath  and  distributed 
tracts  in  the  cooling  room.  I  then  called  on  some  Arabs  at  their  shops,  and  spent 
some  little  time  with  two  or  three  Jews.  In  the  afternoon  was  visited  by  a  Jew, 
who  begged  me  to  give  him  a  Bible  in  Hebrew.  We  had  some  conversation,  but 
he  spoke  very  little  French.  I  marked  the  fifty-third  Isaiah  and  told  him  to  study 
it  carefully  and  compare  it  with  the  life  of  Christ. 

Visited  Ousidan,  inhabited  entirely  by  Arabs,  one  of  the  prettiest  places  I  have 
seen  ;  hedges  and  flowers  looking  fresh  after  the  rain,  and  the  perfume  of  the 
violets  filling  the  air.  Oranges  and  citrons  were  hanging  in  heavy  clusters  on  the 
trees,  and  the  almonds  were  in  full  blossom.  The  beauties  of  nature  were  a  strik- 
ing contrast  to  the  people.  I  passed  groups  of  men  listlessly  squatting  in  the  sun 
and  sipping  their  coffee.  At  a  very  small  mosque  I  stopped  and  inquired  for  the 
priest.  I  found  him  sitting  among  eighteen  boys,  who  were  shouting  parts  of  the 
koran  at  the  top  of  their  voices.  He  turned  out  with  all  his  scholars  and  read 
aloud  from  the  Gospel  of  St.  John,  which  I  gave  him.  The  boys  listened  with 
rapt  attention,  and  several  Arabs  who  were  passing  at  the  time  also  stopped  to 
hear.  As  I  looked  down  from  my  horse  on  this  group  of  men  and  boys  listening 
to  the  reading  of  the  Scriptures,  I  lifted  my  heart  in  silent  prayer  that  God  would 
bless  His  own  word  to  their  souls. 


164 


Poverty  of  the  Rifiians. 


rilii  ::<  /•:>      i.'X     :""^v  ""flUIW^an'MMIr 


MOHAMMEDAN   GENTLEMEN   AND   SERVANT. 


The  weekly  markets  in  the  villages  are  crowded  with  Arabs  who 
come  with  camels  and  donkeys  from  considerable  distances.  Arab 
encampments  of  half  a  dozen  tents  or  more  are  frequently  met  with 
in  travelling.  These  so  called  Arabs  are  really  Berbers.  Their 
ignorance  is  astounding ;  few  of  them  can  read,  but  they  are  very 
willing  to  hear.  Outside  the  gates  of  the  cities  numbers  of  tents  and 
rude  sheds  are  occupied  by  Rifiian  Berbers,  and  many  of  these  are 
extremely  poor,  coming  to  find  employment  in  the  city,  but  often 
arriving  exhausted  and  emaciated.  Mr.  Liley  writes  :  "  On  more 
than  one  occasion  I  have  seen  men  carried  from  this  quarter  dead  : 
starvation  having  done  its  work — body  and  soul  dead,  for  want  of 
natural  and  spiritual  food." 


M.  Cuendet  writes  that  on  New  Year's  Day  they  gave  a  general 
invitation  to  the  village  of  Djemma  Saridge,  where,  his  station  is 
situated,  to  which  150  persons  responded.  They  made  them  a 
simple  fete,  distributing  bread  and  coffee,  and  speaking  to  them  of 
the  blessed  Saviour.  Mrs.  Lamb  played  some  tunes  on  the  har- 
monium, and  then  some  of  the  people  were  shown  over  the  house. 
The  women  expressed  their  astonishment  by  raising  their  hands  to 


Li  Kabylia. 


165 


KABYLE   TENTS    IN    THE    DESERT. 

their  heads,  not  daring  to  talk  too  much  in  the  presence  of  their 
husbands.  They  were  afterwards  shown  a  magic  lantern,  and 
appeared  much  pleased  with  their  visit.  M.  Cuendet  writes  :  "  May 
the  words  they  have  heard  and  the  things  they  have  seen  awaken 
them  to  their  need  of  a  Saviour  ! 

"  Until  to-day,  Mr.  Lamb  and  I  have  together  studied  Kabyle  and 
translated  some  portions  of  Scripture  by  the  help  of  a  young  Kabyle 
threatened  with  blindness,  who  came  to  us  every  other  day  for  two 
hours  or  more.  This  morning,  seeing  that  our  resources  would  not 
allow  of  our  paying  any  one  for  this  purpose,  we  were  with  great 
regret  obliged  to  send  him  away  for  a  time.  This  was  a  great  pity, 
for  translating  the  word  of  God  powerfully  affected  him,  and  his 
attention  was  rivetted  on  it  while  helping  us." 


THE  ARABS   OF  THE   HAURAN. 

There  are  four  millions  of  Bedawin,  true  sons  of  the  desert, 
dwellers  in  tents,  wanderers  from  place  to  place,  in  the  Arabian 
Desert,  east  of  the  Red  Sea.     But  little  has  been  done  to  carry  the 


1 66  Mr,  Frederick  Connor 

gospel  to  these  wild  people.  They  are  known  as  robbers,  living  on 
plunder,  and  often  engaged  in  warfare;  yet  are  they  extremely  hospi- 
table, receiving  visitors  with  honour,  and  treating  them  with  generous 
kindness.  Our  brother,  Mr.  Connor,  went  to  labour  amongst  them 
some  years  ago.  They  have  shown  a  remarkable  readiness  to  listen 
to  the  word  of  God,  and  to  converse  on  religious  subjects  with  him 
and  with  the  native  agents  whom  he  has  employed.  Five  of  the  latter 
are  now  engaged  evangelizing  among  the  Arabs,  or  teaching  schools. 
The  Turkish  Government  is  doing  all  in  its  power  to  prevent  the 
opening  of  Christian  schools  in  the  Hauran,  and  is  consequently 
trying  to  have  the  Moslems  more  thoroughly  grounded  in  the  doc- 
trines of  Islam. 

The  evangelistic  teachers  daily  gather  little  knots  of  Bedawin  in 
their  tents,  or  of  the  villagers  in  their  own  houses,  read  the  Scriptures 
to  them,  and  pray  with  them,  The  biographies  of  the  patriarchs 
always  interest  the  people  deeply,  and  it  touches  their  hearts  to 
hear  themselves  prayed  for  by  the  teachers.  Mr.  Connor  writes  that 
he  could  send  a  number  of  evangelists  among  them,  to  travel  from 
tribe  to  tribe,  each  man  with  a  donkey  to  carry  his  bed  and  neces- 
saries, as  well  as  simple  remedies  for  the  bodily  diseases  common 
among  the  people. 

After  a  time  Mr.  Connor  had  a  long  and  serious  illness,  resulting 
from  a  fever  caught  while  visiting  the  Arab  tribes  of  the  Hauran. 
After  weeks  of  suffering,  he  was  restored  in  a  great  measure  to  health, 
but  compelled  to  relinquish  the  long  journeys  he  formerly  made,  the 
fatigue  and  privations  connected  with  them  being  too  great  for  his 
strength.  Mrs.  Connor  has  also  suffered  much  in  health,  and  they 
had  to  bear  the  pain  of  parting  with  an  infant  child.  They  conse- 
quently settled  in  the  Hauran  district,  in  connection  with  the  Church 
Missionary  Society,  and  have  several  schools  under  their  charge. 
Many  Arab  sheikhs  who  know  him  send  their  boys  to  be  trained 
under  Mr.  Connor.  He  had  three  with  him  in  Damascus,  who 
made  considerable  progress,  and  can  now  read  the  New  Testament 
well.  Though  Moslems,  they  attend  family  worship,  and  judicious 
treatment  soon  overcomes  their  prejudices.  In  the  vast  wastes  of 
the  Arabian  deserts,  by  the  banks  of  the  Euphrates,  in  the  plains  of 
Jordan,  and  amongst  the  ruined  cities  "of  Bashan,  there  are  thousands 
of  these  wandering  nomads,  pursuing  the  peaceful  life  of  the  patri- 
archs, though  too  often  disturbed  by  warfare. 

The  name  of  their   father    Ishmael   means,   "  God    shall  hear." 


among  the  Bedawin.  167 

May  the  day  be  hastened  when  from  these  descendants  of  Abra- 
ham God  shah  hear  the  voice  of  prayer,  the  confession  of  faith,  and 
the  psalm  of  grateful  praise  ! 

Mr.  Connor  has  a  good  native  agent  as  colporteur,  Muallim 
Khaleel,  with  whom  he  made  some  journeys  to  the  villages  on  the 
borders  of  the  desert,  and  to  Mount  Gilead.     He  wrote  : 

We  slept  in  the  Arab  tents,  and  had  many  interesting  conversations  with  them, 
pointing  to  the  places  around  the  Sea  of  Galilee,  and  telling  them  of  the  miracles 
which  Christ  performed  there.  In  many  cases  we  were  enabled  to  read  God's 
word  and  to  close  the  evening  by  prayer.  I  need  scarcely  tell  you  the  old  story  of 
God's  love  was  new  to  the  Bedawin,  but  they  listened  with  deep  attention,  and  when 
we  had  finished  the  reading  of  a  portion  of  Scripture  they  asked  us  to  continue. 
The  only  interruption  we  experienced  was  by  their  asking  questions  as  to  the 
meaning  of  portions  which  they  did  not  understand,  and  exclamations  of  admira- 
ration,  such  as  Ma  shallah  (Let  the  will  of  God  be  done),  La  Mali  ilia  Allah 
(There  is  no  God  but  God).  The  Arabs  were  much  surprised  to  hear  us  pray  for 
them,  and  said,  "These  Christians  are  not  like  others  :  they  are  good,  and  speak 
like  the  book  "  (that  is,  the  koran). 

We  hope  soon  to  make  a  tour  through  Hauran,  to  try  if  we  can  sell  portions  ol 
Scripture  in  the  giant  cities  of  Bashan.  Of  the  hundred  and  thirty-nine  villages 
which  environ  Damascus,  only  three  contain  Christians.  The  Moslems  will  not 
buy  the  Bible,  but  many  of  them  will  read  it.  Owing  to  a  grant  which  I  received 
I  was  enabled  to  give  thirty  gospels  to  Moslems  in  Damascus,  who  study  them  and 
profess  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  To  the  Bedawin  I  have  also  given  about 
sixty  gospels,  in  which  the  children  read  daily,  and  about  eighty  gospels  to  Moslem 
children  in  the  schools  amongst  the  Bedawin,  so  that  the  children  are  gathered 
from  day  to  day  in  the  black  tents  of  Kedar  reading  the  word  of  God.  Thus  as 
the  seed  is  being  scattered  let  us  take  encouragement  from  God's  promise  that  His 
word  shall  not  return  unto  Him  void. 


We  have  only  space  for  one  extract,  which  will  give  an  idea  of  the 
kind  of  work  required  in  this  mission.     Mr.  Connor  writes  : 

Passing  over  the  western  slope  of  Mount  Hermon,  and  falling  into  a  snowdrift, 
from  which  we  were  two  hours  extricating  our  animals,  we  came  to  the  plain  of 
Huleh,  where  there  was  a  school  among  the  Arabs  at  Khasas.  The  children  were 
very  few,  but  it  gave  me  great  pleasure  to  hear  them  repeating  the  Lord's  prayer, 
the  ten  commandments,  and  such  texts  as  "  God  so  loved  the  world,"  etc.  The 
sheikh  was  very  friendly,  but  the  people  around  him  feared  that  their  children 
would  be  made  Christians,  so  withdrew  them.  The  situation  of  this  tribe  at  the 
time  was  about  an  hour  from  Dan,  where  Jeroboam  instituted  idolatry  by  setting 
up  a  golden  calf  (i  Kings  xii.  29).  I  stayed  in  the  sheikh's  tent  two  days,  and 
had  often  good  opportunities  of  presenting  the  gospel.  When  the  sheikh  found  I 
could  not  continue  the  school,  he  begged  me  to  take  one  of  his  children  to  educate, 
for  he  said  if  his  children  were  left  there  they  would  grow  up  like  the  cattle. 
Sitting  around  the  fire  in  a  rude  hut  belonging  to  the  chief,  the  evenings  were 
spent  in  speaking  of  Jesus,  and  all  the  Arabs  listened  attentively.     I  feel  more 


i68 


/;/  the  Desert. 


^■■i,, 


CROSSING   THE    DESERT. 


and  more  that  the  work  consists  in  lifting  up  Christ  to  the  poor  Arabs,  so  that 
without  entering  upon  any  detail  as  to  His  Godhead  I  simply  tell  of  His  works, 
believing  that  they  will  testify  of  Him  (John  v.  36).  While  there  I  treated  many 
cases  of  illness,  and  found  it  a  great  means  of  obtaining  a  hearing  amongst  them. 
Fever,  dyspepsia,  ophthalmia,  rheumatism,  dropsy,  and  numerous  other  diseases, 
were  prevalent  among  them.  Where  I  was  unable  to  treat  I  gave  advice  as  to 
general  treatment,  and  in  this  way  I  soon  gained  the  title  of  hakim,  or  doctor. 

While  there  I  visited  many  of  the  adjoining  tents,  returning  to  sleep  at  the 
sheikh's  tent  at  night.  Proceeding  to  another  encampment,  I  found  a  poor  fellow- 
lying  on  his  back,  with  his  leg  swelled  to  an  enormous  size  and  ulcerated.  Upon 
inquiry  I  found  he  had  been  cauterized  for  a  pain  in  the  knee,  and  on  being 
exposed  to  the  cold,  inflammation  set  in.  Before  leaving,  I  told  them  what  to  do 
to  give  the  poor  man  relief.  The  chief  of  the  tribe  sent  me  a  letter  with  his  seal 
affixed,  asking  me  to  send  him  a  teacher.  The  tribe  has  however  removed  from 
that  part  now,  and  I  shall  be  unable  to  find  them  till  autumn. 

Sunset  was  approaching,  and  our  thoughts  were  engaged  in  planning  how  and 
where  to  pass  the  night,  for  no  large  encampment  of  Bedawin  was  visible  for 
miles  around.     Riding  up  to  a  shepherd's    tent  however,  we  inquired  for  a  parti- 


Mission  in  Marseilles.  i6g 

cular  tribe,  and  ound  they  were  not  so  far  off  as  we  had  anticipated.  The  poor 
horses  were  unwilling  to  start  afresh,  but  there  was  no  alternative.  Shortly  after 
sunset  we  arrived  at  a  large  encampment,  where  we  received  a  hearty  welcome  from 
the  sheikh,  Ahmed  al  Muflah.  His  nephew  Aly,  a  young  man  about  my  own 
height,  showed  feats  of  strength  before  the  tent,  which  at  once  gave  me  a  subject 
for  conversation.  Calling  upon  him  to  sit  down  at  my  side,  and  with  a  number  of 
the  Arabs  sitting  around  a  camp  fire,  I  told  them  of  Samson  and  other  stories, 
and  then  spoke  to  them  of  Christ. 

So  the  evening  passed,  till  it  was  time  to  retire  to  rest.  Commending  ourselves 
to  the  loving  care  of  our  heavenly  Father,  we  retired  to  rest,  if  it  may  be  called 
retiring,  lying  down  in  an  open  Arab  tent  with  ten  or  twelve  companions.  A 
strong  wind  arose  during  the  night,  which  blew  the  tent  down.  It  was  a  rather 
difficult  task  to  erect  it  again  without  any  light,  for  the  Bedavvin  never  use  a 
lantern  except  in  the  tent  of  a  great  chief.  When  morning  dawned  we  arose, 
and  I  soon  had  a  cup  of  tea,  which  refreshed  me  greatly.  The  chief  told  me  that 
he  would  be  very  thankful  if  I  would  send  him  a  teacher,  and  promised  that  thirty 
children  would  attend  the  school.  The  chief  men  of  the  tribe  came  into  the  tent, 
and  affixed  their  seals  to  a  document  asking  for  a  teacher. 

MISSION   EVANGELIQUE   DE   MARSEILLE. 

One  of  our  earliest  and  most  gifted  students  was  M.  Reuben 
Saillens,  of  Lyons.  He  had,  before  coming  to  us,  been  engaged  in 
a  bank.  At  the  end  of  his  first  six  months'  residence  in  this  country 
he  spoke  English  well  enough  to  take  part  in  open-air  preaching  in 
London.  After  his  course  with  us  he  returned  to  his  own  country, 
and  founded  a  mission  to  the  working  classes  of  Marseilles. 

The  population  of  Marseilles  amounts  to  350,000  souls,  of  which 
by  far  the  largest  part  are  steeped  in  the  darkness  of  Catholicism,  or 
given  over  to  materialism  and  infidelity.  The  comparatively  few 
Protestants  had  so  long  followed  a  non-aggressive  policy,  that  their 
influence  was  little  felt  by  the  immense  mass  of  superstition  and 
unbelief  around  them.  The  "  Mission  Evangelique "  soon  bore 
blessed  fruit  among  the  people.  In  all  parts  of  the  town  the  gospel 
was  welcomed  heartily  by  the  masses,  kindness  and  sympathy  were 
shown  to  the  missionaries,  and  no  disturbance  took  place  at  any  ot 
the  stations.  Seven  stations  were  opened  in  various  parts  of  the 
town,  and  four  or  five  thousand  persons  brought  under  the  influence 
of  the  mission.  Sunday  schools,  Bible-classes,  libraries,  mothers' 
meetings,  and  other  helpful  agencies  were  connected  with  the  diffe- 
rent stations ;  and  a  small  medical  mission  was  started,  as  well  as 
a  school  for  training  young  evangelists.  A  "  fraternal  association," 
connected  with  this  mission,  gathers  the  new  converts  into  Christian 
fellowship  in  work  and  in  prayer,  not  into  Church  fellowship  (for 


170  School  for  Evangelists  in  France. 

M.  Saillens  encourages  all  the  converts  to  join  some  of  the  existing 
Protestant  congregations  for  that),  but  into  social  intercourse  and 
joint  efforts  for  the  spread  of  the  gospel.  Over  a  hundred  have 
united  with  the  little  society  of  converts  from  Popery.  Our  brother 
Saillens  had  great  reason  to  thank  God  and  take  courage.  He  wrote 
to  us  last  summer  : 

Our  work  has  now  extended  to  six  stations  in  Marseilles  ;  we  are  only  waiting 
that  vacation  time  be  past  to  open  our  "  Ecole pratique  a" Evangelisation,"  with 
four  students  to  be  begin  with  ;  and  we  are  contemplating  a  work  in  that  long 
neglected  island  Corsica,  if  the  Lord  sends  us  the  right  man  for  it.  I  shall  be 
thankful  to  receive  a  copy  of  the  form  of  application  and  of  the  rules  of  your  Insti- 
tute, out  of  which  we  might  make  some  riglement  for  ours.  We  shall  have 
only  four  young  men  at  first,  as  we  have  only  ,£160  subscribed  towards  this  special 
work  ;  and  it  takes  ^40  a  year  to  keep  a  student.  The  accounts  of  this  school  of 
the  prophets  will  be  kept  quite  independent  from  those  of  the  mission,  so  that 
donors  may  help  either  as  they  may  wish. 

I  am  very  anxious  that  the  young  men  trained  here  should,  before  they  enter 
upon  work,  be  acquainted  with  the  English  language  and  Christian  literature,  and 
also  with  English  Christian  life  and  work.  I  have  thought  that,  if  Mr.  Guinness 
agreed  to  this,  we  might  send  them  over  to  you,  when  they  have  a  pen  prcs  finished 
their  studies,  for  six  months  or  so,  not  so  much  to  study  in  books  as  with  their  ears 
and  their  eyes.  I  know  what  service  it  was  to  me  !  We  might  in  exchange 
receive  any  of  your  young  men  desirous  of  learning  French,  or  to  work  in  France, 
or  those  about  to  sail  for  foreign  parts. 

M.  Saillens  has  since  become  a  colleague  of  Mr.  McCall  in  Paris. 


MR.    ROHRBACH'S   MISSION   IN   BERLIN. 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Rohrbach  are  settled  in  the  city  of  Berlin,  and  have 
been  for  some  years  now.  The  need  of  a  simple  gospel  mission 
there  may  be  conceived  from  the  following  statement,  made  in  the 
presence  of  the  emperor  and  royal  family  by  one  of  the  chaplains  to 
the  court : 

Affection,  faith,  and  obedience  to  the  word  of  God  are  unknown  in  this 
country.  This,  our  great  German  fatherland,  was  justly  called  formerly  the 
"home  of  the  faith."  Now,  on  the  contrary,  it  seems  as  if  it  were  the  father  of 
lies  who  is  worshipped  in  Prussia  !  What  was  formerly  considered  generous  and 
noble  is  now  looked  upon  with  contempt,  and  theft  and  swindling  are  called  by 
the  euphonic  name  of  "business."  Marriages  are  concluded  without  the  blessing 
of  the  Church,  concluded  on  trial,  to  be  broken  if  not  found  to  answer.  We  still 
have  a  Sunday,  but  it  is  only  a  Sunday  in  name  ;  the  people  work  during  church 
hours,  and  spend  the  afternoon  and  evening  in  rioting  in  the  public  houses  and 
music  halls  ;  while  the  upper  classes  rush  to  the  races,  they  prefer  hearing  the 
panting    <>f    the  tortured    horses    to    hearing   the    word    "f   (!<><];       This   word    is 


Religious  Condition  of  Germany.  171 

ridiculed  in  the  press  and  turned  to  blasphemy  in  public  assemblies,  while  the 
servants  of  God  are  insulted  daily. 

The  German  papers,  Protestant  as  well  as  Catholic,  write  in  a 
similar  strain.  Berlin,  with  a  population  of  a  million,  has  only  no 
ministers  of  religion,  both  Protestant  and  Roman  Catholic ;  and  the 
average  attendance  at  each  place  of  worship  is  below  100  !  Twenty 
thousand  funerals  take  place  annually  in  Berlin  without  any  religious 
service  whatever ! 

House  to  house  inquiries  show  that  in  the  same  city  only  one 
house  in  eight  even  possesses  a  Bible.  In  fact,  the  state  of  religion 
and  morals  throughout  the  empire  is  a  grief  and  distress  to  the  best 
citizens. 

This  social  deterioration  and  increase  of  crime  do  not  arise  from 
ignorance  or  want  of  education  or  culture,  nor  is  the  cause  in  this 
case  intemperance ;  the  one  chief  reason  for  it  is  the  substitution  of 
unbelief  for  faith  in  God  and  His  word. 

Protestant  Germany  is  reaping  the  harvest  of  "advanced  thought" 
or  scepticism.  Crime  has  increased,  daring  the  last  six  years,  in 
Prussia  from  fifty  to  two  or  three  hundred  per  cent.  In  Northern 
Germany  the  number  of  criminals  has  risen  from  102,000,  eight 
years  ago,  to  150,000.  The  prisons  are  all  full.  Patriots  urge  the 
formation  of  a  penal  colony  in  Western  Africa  or  among  the  isles  of 
the  Pacific. 

The  Contemporary  Review  of  January,  188 1,  in  speaking  of  Pro- 
testantism in  Germany,  says  : 

"  If  ever  there  were  a  country  free  of  religious  prejudices,  which 
has  stripped  off  all  lingering  remnants  of  her  ancient  faiths,  and 
frankly  proclaimed  philosophical  indifference  to  all  creeds  alike,  that 
country  is  emphatically  Germany.  Of  Protestantism  it  is  vain  to 
talk.  Pericles  and  Alcibiades  were  not  more  completely  and  frankly 
pagan  than  the  Prussian  statesman  and  warrior  of  to-day.  There  are 
believing  Christians  in  Germany,  but  who  holds  them  to  be  of  any 
account?  The  Protestant  Church  is  a  dismal  spectacle  of  dwindling 
indifferentism,  and  religionists  of  all  denominations  are  treated  as 
hypocrites  and  timeservers,  or  as  illiterate  imbeciles,  whose  vain 
babblings  are  of  no  account.  Berlin  has  fewer  Christian  churches 
than  any  city  of  like  size  in  Christendom,  yet  one  of  those  churches 
was  lately  given  to  the  Jewish  community  for  a  synagogue." 

Mr.  Rohrbach  is  meeting  with  considerable  encouragement  in  his 
Work,  and  has  a  flourishing  mission,  with  out-stations,  in  Moabib 


172  Mr.  Bureau  in  Tunis. 

Among  the  Soldiers  in  Tunis. 

Mr.  Jocelyn  Bureau  was  one  of  our  French  students,  and  is 
now  settled  as  a  missionary  in  Tunis,  North  Africa.  The  following 
is  his  account  of  his  first  visit  to  this  country,  during  the  French 
annexation,  when  he  went  to  distribute  Testaments  among  the 
soldiers. 

In  1 88 1  45,000  French  troops,  under  pretext  of  punishing  some  Kroumir 
tribes,  but  in  reality  with  the  intention  of  annexing  the  country,  crossed  the 
frontier  of  Algeria  and  entered  Tunis. 

I  was  permitted  for  six  sad  months  to  labour  among  these  unfortunate 
soldiers,  sharing  their  hardships  and  sufferings,  and  seeking  their  spiritual  good. 
The  mortality  which  attended  the  expedition  seems  to  have  arisen  from  the  in- 
sufficient scale  on  which  preparations  were  made.  It  was  desired  by  the 
authorities  to  represent  as  a  slight  skirmish  what  was  intended  to  be  and  proved 
a  serious  campaign,  requiring  an  army  twice  as  numerous  as  that  employed  by 
England  in  suppressing  the  Egyptian  rebellion.  Insufficient  financial  supplies 
were  provided,  and  consequently  the  commissariat  was  very  badly  organized 
during  all  the  earlier  months  of  the  campaign.  Many  doctors  were  left  without 
remedies,  and  several  regiments  lacked  even  bread,  and  were  clad  in  rags.  I  have 
often  seen  the  men  sleeping  on  the  bare  ground  with  only  a  thin  little  blanket  to 
protect  them  from  the  cold  of  night  (which  is  considerable  in  Tunis).  Multi- 
tudes were  consequently  stricken  down  by  fever  ;  we  had  five  or  six  deaths  daily  in 
one  camp  of  only  two  thousand  men  near  the  city  of  Tunis.  The  total  mortality 
of  the  expedition  is  variously  estimated  at  from  six  to  ten  thousand  men,  of  whom 
probably  not  more  than  two  hundred  fell  from  Arab  bullets.  I  was  engaged  in 
distributing  among  these  poor  dying  men  the  word  of  life,  and  also  in  pointing 
them  to  Christ.  I  sold  among  them  many  hundreds  of  Testaments,  and  gave 
others  freely,  as  well  as  tracts  and  periodicals,  including  ten  thousand  copies  of 
Lami  de  la  Maison.  I  traversed  the  country  from  Tunis  to  Cabes,  and  found 
many  anxious  souls  among  the  men  as  well  as  multitudes  of  unbelievers. 

"  Your  book  should  be  in  the  pocket  of  every  French  soldier,"  said  a  Roman 
Catholic  major  to  me  one  day,  while  another  officer,  observing  one  man  who 
wished  but  could  not  afford  to  buy  a  Testament,  paid  the  price  for  him,  saying, 
"If  each  man  had  and  read  that  book,  there  would  be  less  immorality  in  the 
army  !  "  I  could  not  watch  for  results  of  my  work,  as  I  had  to  be  always  on  the 
move,  journeying  from  camp  to  camp  ;  but  I  constantly  observed  the  men  reading 
the  word  of  God  with  attention  and  interest.  Once  only  an  officer  informed  me 
in  tones  of  angry  excitement  that  my  " propagande  was  contrary  to  the  republican 
regime"  making  me  feel  ashamed  that  a  French  official  should  be  so  ill-informed. 

I  visited  the  ruins  of  the  great  city  which  cradled  the  youthful  Hannibal, 
and  was  the  rival  of  Rome  itself.  The  glory  of  Africa,  Carthage  is  nothing  now 
but  what  memory  and  association  make  it.  A  few  immense  cisterns  are  well 
preserved,  and  some  walls  said  to  have  formed  part  of  a  temple  of  Hippocrates. 

In  October  our  troops  reached  the  sacred  city  of  Kairwan,  forty  miles  from 
the  sea.  A  battle  was  fully  expected  here,  but  the  enemy  had  disappeared,  and 
we  had  only  to  enter  the  town.  The  New  Testaments  I  carried  in  with  me  into 
this  holy  of  holies  of  the  Mohammedan  world,   with  its  magnificent  mosque  of 


Mr.  Engval  in  the  Ural  Mountains.  173 

Sicli  Okbah,  one  of  the  companions  of  Mohammed,  were  probably  the  first  that 
had  ever  penetrated  into  this  jealously  guarded  sanctuary.  "The  great  mosque" 
in  this  place  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  monuments  in  North  Africa,  containing 
four  hundred  magnificent  columns  of  marbles  of  different  colours. 

Arabs,  Kabyles,  Jews,  Maltese,  Italians,  and  natives  of  various  tribes  in- 
habit Tunis,  and  lam  sorry  to  add  that  the  example  set  by  the  so  called  Christians 
is  something  terrible,  and  must  do  incalculable  mischief.  The  immorality  is 
worse  than  any  I  have  seen  even  in  Paris.  No  wonder  the  Arabs  are  indifferent 
<>r  adverse  to  Christianity  ! 

Oh  that  God  would  raise  up  some  righteous  men  to  be  witnesses  to  Christ  in 
this  dark  land  ! 

On  the  Ural  Mountains. 

One  of  our  Swedish  students,  Mr.  Engval,  went  out  to  the 
Congo,  wishing  to  devote  himself  to  Africa.  His  health  however 
failed  completely,  and  it  was  evident  he  could  not  live  many  months 
in  the  tropics.  He  returned  to  Europe  to  save  his  life,  and  went  to 
a  very  different  climate — among  the  Ural  Mountains,  an  interesting 
sphere  of  work.     He  writes  from  Tirljanski : 

Dear  Mr.  Guinness, — 

According  to  my  promise,  I  send  you  some  tidings  with  much  pleasure- 
I  can  never,  save  in  a  very  small  degree,  express  my  gratitude  for  all  the  kindness 
you  have  shown  me,  and  for  the  care  you  took  of  me  while  in  England.  Ah  ! 
how  glad  I  was  to  meet  you  in  St.  Petersburg,  especially  as  1  missed  you  when 
you  were  in  my  own  country  ! 

We  left  St.  Petersburg  on  Sept.  12th,  'and  reached  this  place  on  the  29th, 
having  travelled  two  days  by  rail  and  six  days  by  steamer,  from  Nijni  Novogorod 
to  Ofa,  and  eight  days  on  horseback  from  Ofa  to  this  place.  We  brought  with 
us  a  lad  of  seventeen  from  St.  Petersburg,  a  dear  Christian  youth,  who  speaks  the 
Russian  language  perfectly,  though  the  son  of  Swedish  parents.  He  has  been  of 
great  assistance  to  us,  and  we  hope  he  will  one  day  be  a  missionary  among  the 
Russians.  On  the  steamer  he  read  to  the  people  from  the  New  Testament,  and 
we  spoke  through  him  to  them  of  Christ.  They  were  eager  to  listen,  and 
numbers  of  them  had  never  heard  such  words  before.  They  asked  for  copies 
of  the  New  Testament  ;  we  had  none  but  our  own,  but  we  were  obliged  at  last 
to  give  them  away.  Is  it  not  sad  to  think  that  here  in  this  great  empire  one 
hundred  millions  of  our  fellow  creatures  are  living  and  dying  without  any  true 
knowledge  of  the  gospel  ?  The  Christians  of  England  and  Sweden  think  so 
much  of  China,  India,  and  Africa,  that  they  seem  to  forget  the  beggar  lying  at 
their  door — poor  ignorant  Russia  !  But  this  is  not  right.  "These  things  ought 
ye  to  have  done,  anil  not  to  leave  the  other  undone." 

Arrival  at  Tirljanski. 

We  received  a  hearty 'welcome  from  the  Swedes  here  on  our  arrival,  both 
from  those  who  are  believers  and  those  who  are  not.  They  all  wish  to  hear  the 
word  of  God.  Some  of  them  had  been  seven  or  eight  years  without  ever  having 
done  so.     They  are  only  a  small  colony,  who  work  in  iron.     We   live   in   one 

M 


174  Dearth  of  Labourers. 

village,  and  visit  the  others  once  or  twice  a  month.  With  the  exception  of  two, 
they  live  as  if  there  were  no  God,  and  have  sunk  low  in  the  misery  of  sin.  1  could 
not  describe  to  you  their  life  in  Russia ;  but  praise  God  !  there  are  already  some 
signs  of  improvement.  One  soul  has,  I  trust,  been  really  saved,  and  Swedes  and 
Russians  are  both  struck  with  the  change  in  the  lives  of  many  others.  Tray  the 
Lord  earnestly  that  by  His  Holy  Spirit  all  of  these  dear  Swedes  may  be  saved.  I 
should  like  to  tell  you  something  about 

The  Condition  of  the  Russians, 

but  if  I  were  to  draw  it  correctly  you  would  think  the  picture  too  dark.  They 
live  in  every  kind  of  sin— drunkenness,  fornication,  theft,  murder.  During  the 
holidays,  which  they  observe  in  honour  of  the  tutelar  saint  of  the  village,  the 
angel  Michael,  two  were  killed,  and  many  were  so  injured  that  they  will  be 
cripples  for  the  rest  of  their  lives.     And  all  through  the  influence  of  drink  ! 

They  know  nothing  of  the  blessing  of  the  Sabbath  ;  every  day  is  alike. 
There  are  no  prayer-meetings,  or  meetings  of  any  kind,  where  they  can  hear 
of  the  love  of  Christ.  There  is  of  course  a  sort  of  service  in  the  church  on 
Sunday,  but  there  is  nothing  but  singing  the  mass,  offering  incense,  etc.  ;  the 
people  are  taught  to  attitudinize,  and'eross,  and  bow  themselves  before  the  priest, 
and  to  kiss  the  cross,  but  no  gospel,  no  word  about  Christ.  Though  intensely 
ignorant,  they  are  a  religious  people,  and  strictly  keep  their  observances,  as,  for 
instance,  not  drinking  milk  on  a  fast  day.  They  are  willing  to  listen  when  one 
speaks  to  them  of  Christ,  and  some  who  have  attended  our  Swedish  meetings 
have  said  to  us  that  they  wish  we  would  speak  to  them  also.  There  are  eight  or 
ten  thousand  Russians  in  this  village,  and  twelve  thousand  in  the  adjoining  one. 

We  have  begun  to  learn  Russian,  with  the  assistance  of  the  lad  we  brought 
with  us,  and  may  the  Lord  help  us,  so  that  we  may  be  able  to  speak  direct  to 
the  people  ! 

Besides  the  Swedes  and  the  Russians  we  have  here  Mohammedans,  who  are 
called  Baskirs.  They  live  on  the  Ural  Mountains,  and  we  see  them  daily.  It 
would  not  be  impossible  to  work  amongst  them,  as  the  Russians  allow  them  the 
free  exercise  of  their  religion,  but  there  is  no  labourer,  though  the  harvest  is 
plenteous. 


Mr.  B.  Needhanis  Sphere. 


175 


A  FEW  SHEEP  IN  THE  WILDERNESS. 

One  of  our  students,  Mr.  Benjamin  Needham,  had  been  for  some 
time  working  among  the  North  American  Indians  when  we  visited 
him  at  Brantford,  Ontario,  in  1SS4.  The  following  account  of  a 
visit  to  his  flock  was  written  at  the  time. 

Will  out  readers  accompany  us  in  imagination  to  a  meeting  which  we  recently 
attended?  They  shall  discover  for  themselves  its  locality!  To  get  there  we 
must  drive  some  ten  or  twelve  miles ;  so  we  mount  into  a  light  open  vehicle,  which 
does  not  look  quite  English,  and  start  at  a  good  pace  over  broad  but  dusty  roads. 
Ah  !  they  cannot  be  English  !  In  no  part  of  our  trim  and  tidy  little  island  could 
such  roads  be  found.  Such  ruts,  such  hills  and  hollows,  such  rough  wooden 
bridges,  without  paling  or  parapet  !  And  those  lovely  crimson  and  gold-tinted 
maples  and  shumacs,  no  clouded  English  sun  has  dressed  them  in  these  gorgeous 
colours  ;  where  are  we  ?  For  a  few  miles  our  road  runs  through  flourishing 
suburban  districts,  with  pretty,  inviting  residences,  and  neat  gardens  and  farms  ; 


176  On  a  Reserve. 

but  the  houses,  though  many  of  them  are  handsome,  are  built  of  wood,  and  the 
side-walks  are  paved  with  wood,  and  the  bridges  are  all  wooden,  and  when  for 
some  distance  the  road  lies  along  the  banks  of  a  broad  river,  and  we  have  to  cross 
smaller  streams  flowing  into  it,  we  feel  almost  nervous  in  passing  over  the  few 
broken  or  unguarded  planks  that  form  the  bridge. 

But  we  reach  at  last  a  boundary-line,  and  the  look  of  the  country  speedily 
changes  from  civilized  to  semi-civilized.  There  are  not  many  houses  about  now, 
and  those  we  do  meet  are  very  small  log  huts,  many  of  them  with  perhaps  a  door 
and  two  windows,  and  a  little  chimney ;  substantial  and  warm  enough;  but  far 
from  spacious.  Yet  there  are  well-ploughed  fields  around  them,  and  good  crops 
of  corn,  and  in  some  cases  the  farms  look  quite  flourishing.  Other  huts  however 
are  placed  anyhow  amid  the  woodland,  and  look  deplorable  enough  in  their  sur- 
roundings. What  an  extent  of  uncleared  woodland  there  is,  and  of  partial  clear- 
ings !  Rough  snake-fences  inclose  fields  thick  with  blackened  stumps  and  fallen 
trees,  and  yet  there  are  patches  of  maize  amid  the  ruins  of  the  forest,  and  golden 
gourds  lie  glowing  on  the  ground. 

Are  we  in  a  heathen  land  ?    Our  guide  asks  us  to  alight  and  enter 

A   PAGAN   PLACE  OF  WORSHIP. 

We  do  so,  and  note  how  the  degrading  nature  of  paganism  is  expressed  in  the 
temple  it  rears  for  its  religious  rites.  A  large,  low,  dark,  dirty,  ugly,  rtnigh, 
barn-like  room,  a  few  seats  round  the  walls,  and  a  couple  of  stoves,  the  only 
furniture  besides  a  large  black  pot.  A  few  feather  head-dresses  hang  on  the  wall, 
and  some  barbarous  musical  arrangements  are  evident.  Near  by  is  a  graveyard, 
where,  from  time  to  time,  come  sad,  solemn,  silent  processions  to  bury  their 
dead  out  of  their  sight.  Without  word  or  prayer  or  tear  they  commit  the  dust  to 
dust,  and  depart. 

But  we  drive  on  a  mile  or  two,  and  what  is  this  neat  wooden  structure,  with 
its  heaven-pointing  spire  and  its  bell,  its  organ,  its  comfortable  and  ornamental 
interior,  its  inviting  and  cheering  aspect  ?  This  must  be  a  Christian  church 
surely  ?  We  drive  on,  and  here  is  a  temple  of  yet  another  kind.  A  large  space 
in  the  forest  is  roughly  walled  in  with  barriers  of  bush,  and  cleared  of  under- 
growth. The  sunlight  falls  with  chequered  brightness  on  the  grassy  sward. 
Nature's  majestic  columns  rising  on  every  side  sustain  with  their  multiplied  and 
most  graceful  arches  a  glorious  leafy  canopy  which  excludes  alike  the  burning 
heat  and  the  sudden  shower  ;  and  underneath  are  ranged  on  large  logs  as  joists, 
row  upon  row  of  plain  plank  seats  opposite  a  roomy  platform.  This  is  evidently 
a  camp-meeting  ground,  a  place  where  prayer  is  wont  to  be  made  to  Him  who 
dwelleth  not  in  temples  made  with  hands. 

But  we  drive  a  little  farther,  and  call  at  one  of  the  cottages  in  a  wayside  field. 
Now  we  shall  find  out  where  we  are  !  Talk  to  that  old  lady  by  the  door.  How 
very  brown  her  complexion  is,  and  how  very  black  her  hair  and  eyes  !  How 
singularly  grotesque  her  countenance  !  and,  oh  !  how  poor  her  clothing !  No 
light  comes  into  her  eyes  as  we  address  her  ;  she  only  shakes  her  head  and  utters 
words  we  cannot  understand.  She  is  pounding  in  a  rough  mortar  and  with  a 
weighty  pestle  which  we  could  not  even  lift  white  Indian  corn,  which  she  reduces 
to  fragments,  though  not  to  flour,  and  then,  mixing  it  with  water,  bakes.  Her 
cottage  interior  looks  destitute  and  dirty,  and  smells  of  tobacco  smoke.  It  cannot 
be  called  a/iofftej  it  may  give  warmth  and  shelter  to  the  body,  but  it  offers  nothing 
to  gratify  or  satisfy  a  human  heart  and  mind  or  soul. 


178  An  Indian  Meeting. 

Sadly  we  turn  away  and  go  on  to  another  house.  What  a  strange  contrast  is 
here  !  Neat,  and  clean,  and  comfortable,  well-furnished,  and  even  pretty  is  this 
interior:  parlour  and  kitchen  and  bedroom,  books  and  pictures  and  ornaments  ! 
Bonnie  boys,  with  very  brown  faces  and  bright  eyes,  answer  in  good  English  our 
questions,  and  a  Christian  mother  gives  us  a  glad  welcome. 

Where  are  we?  and  who  are  these  strange,  mixed  people?  We  must  hasten  to 
our  meeting  ;  perhaps  we  shall  discover  there  ! 

It  is  held  in  the  "  council  house  "  of  the  place,  a  decent  looking  building 
inside  and  out.  A  pump  is  just  alongside  under  an  open  portico,  and  venerable- 
looking  men— not  English  however — welcome  us  to  the  precincts.  An  evergreen 
arch,  tastefully  woven  over  the  entrance  gate,  has  been  erected  in  our  honour,  and 
a  banner  of  "  Welcome  "  awaits  us  within.  There  is  a  portrait  of  Queen  Victoria 
over  the  platform,  and  various  other  portraits  on  the  walls.  A  goodly  company 
is  assembled  ;  the  men  sit  on  one  side,  and  the  women  on  the  other.  But  what 
strange-looking  women  some  of  them  are  !  Many  are  nearly  white  ;  but  some  are- 
very  dark,  and  there  are  various  intermediate  shades.  No  black  people  however 
are  here  ;  we  are  not  among  negroes.  These  folks  have  not  the  features  of  gypsies 
either,  though  the  complexion  is  not  unlike  theirs.  But  what  are  those  strange 
parcels  on  the  women's  laps  ?  Bright  packets  done  up  on  boards,  of  the  shape  of 
very  small  coffins,  with  strong  wicker  handles  arching  over.  In  th,e  dim  light  we 
can  hardly  see  what  they  are,  but  drawing  nearer — positively  they  are  babies,  fat, 
peaceable,  sleepy,  statuesque  babies!  There  they  lie,  stretched  out  as  straight  as 
corpses,  tied  up  so  tight  as  to  feel  quite  hard,  and  so  compactly  as  to  be  easily 
portable  ;  decorated  externally  with  patchwork  and  bead  embroidery,  producing 
a  rich  and  gaudy  effect ;  the  little  bald  head  pillowed  comfortably  enough  on  a 
pillow,  the  only  motion  possible  to  the  owner  being  to  turn  that  same  head  from 
side  to  side.  And,  strangest  sight  of  all,  these  mothers  actually  take  the  rigid 
boards  and  arching  handles  to  their  bosoms  and  nurse  their  infants  in  that  stiff 
and  awkward  attitude.     Yes,  for  they  are 

Indian  Squaws, 

nstead  of  Englishwomen,  and  these  are  "  papooses,"  not  babies.  The  mystery  is 
cleared  up  now.  We  are  in  a  meeting  of  Red  Indians,  on  a  Canadian  reserve, 
and  our  dear  brother  and  former  student,  William  Needham,  is  in  the  midst  of 
the  flock  to  which  for  the  last  four  years  lie  has  been  lovingly  and  patiently 
ministering  the  bread  of  life. 

A  cup  of  tea  is  handed  round,  and,  for  the  first  time  in  our  lives,  we  feast  with 
the  children  of  the  forest.  What  weather-beaten  forms  and  faces  some  of  them 
have  !  How  staid  and  sober,  how  almost  sad  and  solemn  they  look  !  Not  a 
gleam  of  hilarity,  or  a  sparkle  of  pleasure  is  to  be  seen.  They  are  glad,  we  know, 
at  heart  to  welcome  us,  but  they  do  not  show  it.  This  is  their  nature.  The 
gloom  of  the  forest  has  left  its  impress  on  their  characters,  which  habits  of  civiliza- 
tion have  scarcely  modified.  Dignified,  reserved,  taciturn,  sedate,  the  Indian  is 
an  utter  and  curious  contrast  to  his  neighbour  the  negro. 

But  the  meeting  has  begun,  and  is  soon  requested  to  sing  a  Mohawk  hymn. 
Strange,  wild,  weird  strains  arise,  and  swell  and  fall,  and  swell  again  louder  and 
deeper.  A  volume  of  beautiful  but  slow  and  unusual  music  rolls  sweetly 
through  the  house.  What  wonderful  voices  some  of  them  have,  and  what  good 
though  "adagio  "  time  they  keep  !  Our  hearts  are  full  as  we  hear  these  converts 
from  paganism  praising  Christ.     Presently  a  trio  of  fine  voices  sing  in  English,   to 


Address  of  the  "Six  Nations"  179 

the  accompaniment  of  one  of  the  party,  the  well-known  strain,  "  Sing,  oh,  sing  of 
my  Redeemer,"  and  many  join  in  the  chorus,  especially  the  young  men,  members 
of  a  good  brass  band,  which  occupies  one  corner  of  the  room,  and  proves  by  its 
performances  that  a  taste  for  music  is  inherent  in  the  red  man. 

We  join  in  prayer,  and  then  speak  through  our  interpreter  to  the  assembly. 
Remembering  that  it  represented  six  nations,  each  of  which  retains  its  own 
language,  we  wonder  how  they  are  all  to  understand,  but  they  seem  to  do  so. 
The  interpreter  speaks  in  Mohawk,  and  though  the  tribes  never  attempt  to  speak 
each  other's  language,  they  can  generally  understand  any  one  of  the  six.  By-and- 
by  however  we  find  translation  too  tedious  and  cumbersome.  The  Indian  words 
are  immensely  long,  and  whether  the  interpreter  amplifies  our  words  or  not,  we 
do  not  know,  but  it  takes  him  twice  as  long  as  it  takes  us  to  express  each  idea. 
So  we  speak  out  in  English,  knowing  many  will  understand,  and  urge  them  to  tell 
their  friends  after  the  meeting  what  had  been  said.  When  we  have  done,  the 
subjoined  address,  which  had  been  prepared  by  the  chiefs  of  the  "six  nations" 
during  the  tea,  and  which  shows  how  good  a  knowledge  of  our  tongue  some  of 
their  numbers  must  possess,  is  read  aloud  by  one  of  them  and  presented  to  us  : 

ADDRESS  01"  THE  CHIEFS  OF  THE  "SIX  NATIONS"  INDIANS  TO  MR.  AND 
MR3.  H.  GRATTAN  GUINNESS  ON  THE  OCCASION  OF  TH1UR  VISIT  TO  THE 
RESERVE,    FRIDAY,    SEPTEMBER   26'ITI,    1S84. 

Great  Father  and  Mother  of  many  Missionaries  ! — We  the  red  men  of  this 
reserve  feel  honoured  that  you  should  visit  us.  Many  times  we  have  heard  of 
you  and  of  your  Christian  enterprises  across  the  great  sea. 

Our  faithful  friend  and  teacher,  the  Rev.  B.  C.  Needham,  has  often  acquainted 
us  with  the  heroic  efforts  of  your  noble  young  men — men  who  amid  privation  and 
suffering  are  striving  to  win  benighted  souls  from  the  galling  influences  of  pagan- 
ism, as  we  ourselves  have  been  Mron.  He  and  his  brothers  have  preached  unto 
us  that  Jesus,  who  is  the  true  Friend  of  the  child  of  the  forest  as  well  as  of  the 
pale -face. 

You,  dear  sir,  have  come  among  us  now,  not  with  a  spear  or  a  sword,  not  to 
consider  hostilities  or  the  sharpening  of  the  battle-axe  or  tomahawk,  but  in  peace  • 
and  we  meet  gladly  to  welcome  you  and  your  dear  lady  to  our  "six  nations." 

You  will  see  that  by  the  help  of  God  and  the  sympathy  of  His  people,  we  are 
becoming  in  many  respects  more  and  more  like  our  white  brethren.  Wicked 
men  came  among  us  and  taught  us  evils  foreign  to  our  race  ;  but  we  are  glad  that 
there  are  others,  like  you  and  yours,  who  are  striving  to  uplift  us,  as  you  are  striv- 
ing to  uplift  other  nations  also. 

We  sincerely  pray  that  your  life  may  extend  to  many  suns,  that  your  wife 
may  be  as  an  evergreen— always  flourishing— and  that  your  young  men  may  be  as 
the  trees  of  a  great  forest  belting  the  whole  earth  with  gladness,  and  we  believe 
as  we  trust  in  one  common  Lord,  that  we  shall  meet  by-and-by  in  the  brighter  and 
better  land. 

Signed  by  Chief  David  Thomas. 

Chief  David  Seneca.  ,,      John  Hill. 

,,      Isaac  Jacobs.  ,,      Richard  Hill. 

„      Abraham  S.  Hill.  ,,      Josiah  Hill. 

Many  a  cordial  hand-shake  and  many  a  hearty  greeting  follow  the  reading  of 
this  address,  and  it  is  evident  that  the  love  of  Christ  has  warmed  up  the  cold 
nature  of  the  Red  Indian. 


i8o 


The  Indian  Reserve. 


It  is  past  ten  o'clock  when  we  start  on  our  homeward  drive  of  twelve  miles, 
and  there  is  no  moon.  At  times,  and  especially  when  crossing  the  river,  some  of 
our  party  have  to  get  cut  and  carry  a  lantern  before  the  horses,  lest  we  should 
drive  over  the  edge  of  the  unguarded  wooden  bridges.  We  do  not  meet  a  soli- 
tary traveller  in  our  slow  and  cautious  progress,  and  it  is  nearly  midnight  before 
we  reach  our  destination.  And  this  long  and  somewhat  dangerous  journey  our 
brother  Mr.  Benjamin  Needham  takes  constantly  after  his  evening  meetings  on 
the  Indian  Reserve  ! 


RED   INDIAN   CAMP    IN    THE   FOREST. — BARK   CANOE. 


FAMINE  OF  THE  WORD  IN  WESTERN  AMERICA. 

"  There  are  twelve  hundred  totuns  west  of  the  Mississippi  without 

church  or  preaching  of  any  kind."     Such  is  the  startling  statement 

lately  published  by  the  American  Home  Missionary  Society.     During 

the  fifty-seven  years  of  this  society's  existence,  the  population  of  the 


Religious  Condition  of  the   Western  States.  181 

States  has  increased  from  n,ooo,ooo  to  50,000,000,  one-half  of 
which  are  to  be  found  west  of  Ohio,  one-fourth  west  of  the  Mis. 
sissippi,  where,  even  should  this  rate  of  growth  remain  as  now,  there 
will  be  in  1890,  18,430,000  souls.  But  there  is  abundant  reason  to 
believe  that  the  west  will  develop  every  year  more  rapidly ;  there 
are  now  33,000  miles  of  railway  in  that  region,  of  which  3,300  have 
been  constructed  since  1882,  and  several  vast  systems  in  addition 
are  already  projected.  And  in  almost  every  state  and  territory  of 
the  Rocky  Mountain  region  are  rich  quartz  mines,  which  have  been 
been  waiting  ten  or  twenty  years  for  the  railway  which  alone  can 
convey  the  ponderous  machinery  needed  for  their  working ;  so  that 
there  is  little  doubt  these  new  lines  into  the  mountains  will  speedily 
result  in  the  creation  of  many  a  great  mining  settlement  such  as 
Leadville. 

In  the  province  of  Dakota  the  population,  which  in  1870  was 
14,000,  in  1880  was  135,000  !  A  tenfold  increase  in  ten  years.  And 
this  is  nothing  compared  to  the  growth  of  the  last  three  years. 
About  t,ooo  homesteads  a  day  are  now  taken  in  Southern  Dakota, 
which  is  equivalent  to  an  average  of  3,000  new-comers  every  twenty- 
four  hours.  "  The  railroads,"  we  are  told,  "  are  literally  blocked 
with  goods  of  the  rushing  settlers."  Out  of  Texas  alone  could  be 
carved  half-a-dozen  very  respectable  European  kingdoms. 

How  shall  we  enlarge  our  conceptions  to  grasp  the  mighty  results  which  the 
remaining  years  of  the  nineteenth  century  have  in  store  for  the  vast  empire  west  of 
the  Mississippi?  There  is  a  tremendous  rush  of  events,  which  is  something  new 
under  the  sun.  In  these  latter  days,  the  world  in  its  progress  is  gathering  momen- 
tum like  a  falling  body.  I  venture  little  in  saying  that  a  man  who  is  as  old  as  the 
century  has  seen  a  full  third  of  all  the  progress  of  the  human  race.  I  venture 
nothing  in  saying  that  those  of  you  who  are  twenty  years  old  have  seen  more 
advance  in  civilization  than  the  world  has  seen  in  a  thousand  years  of  some  periods 
of  its  history.  No  man  knows  how  many  such  millenniums  this  nation  will  see 
before  the  nineteenth  century  dies.  Vast  regions  have  been  settled  before,  but 
never  before  under  the  mighty  whip  and  spur  of  electricity  and  steam.  Referring 
to  the  development  of  the  West,  the  London  Times  remarks  :  "  Unquestionably 
this  is  the  most  important  fact  in  contemporary  history.  It  is  a  new  fact  ;  it 
cannot  be  compared  with  any  cognate  phenomenon  in  the  past."  And,  as  it  is 
without  a  precedent,  so  it  will  remain  without  a  parallel  ;  for  there  are  no  more 
new  worlds. 

We  quote  these  words  from  an  address  by  Rev.  Josiah  Strong, 
secretary  to  the  Ohio  H.M.  Society,  and  his  subject  is  the  appalling 
inadequacy  of  supply  available  to  meet  the  spiritual  wants  of  these 
fast  multiplying  millions.     For,  sad  to  say,  there  has  been  for  the 


Mtn   Wanted, 

past  ten  years  a  steady  diminution  of  students  in  the  seven 
theological  seminaries  connected  with  the  Congregational  Churches 
of  America. 

During  the  past  ten  years  these  Churches  have  increased    roper 

cent,  the  number  of  ministers  16  per  cent.    At  this  rate,  ten  years 

hence  there  will  be  in  this  body  418  more  Churches  than  ministers. 
The  Presbyterians  have  now  000  more  Churches  than  ministers,  and 
the  Baptist  (  icceed  the  number  til  ministers  by  9,850. 

1  tt  ever]  Congregational  minister  alive,  says  Mr.  Strong,  take  a  pulpit  ;  call 
to  active  work  the  aged  and  infirm,  the  sick,  all  who  have  turned  aside  t<> 
business,  the  efficient  and  inefficient,  the  secretaries  of  our  benevolent  societies,  the 
editors  of  our  religious  papers,  the  scores  of  college  presidents  and  professors  and 
theological  instructors,  and  we  should  siill  have 213  vacant  Churches,  ii"t  to  men- 
tion the  hundreds  of  new  missionary  fields  which  arc  asking  for  nun. 

Superintendent  Montgomery,  of  the  A.H.M.  Society,  writes  from 
Minnesota  : 

The  gospel  destitution  in  many  parts  of  this  state  will  make  any  man's  heart 
ache  who  prays,  "Thy  kingdom  come."  There  are  scores  of  railroad  villages 
where  no  regular  gospel  services  whatever  are  held  by  any  denomination.  Add 
to  this  scores  of  country  place-  -till  more  destitute,  and  you  may  have  some  idea 
of  the  startling  growth  of  wickedness  which  must  come— is  already  at  hand. 
Had  we  in  Minnesota  alone,  and  in  our  Congregational  work,  forty  more  ministers 
today,  every  one  would  be  doing  great  and  precious  work  for  Christ  within  a 
month.  We  need  these  nun  ;  we  need  them  HOW  ;  and  many  hearts  here  are 
crying  out,  /JV  must  Even  tints  most  of  these  nun  would  have  to 

supply  each  from  two  to  six  Churches  or  preaching-points. 

From  many  another  state,  Ohio,  Illinois,  Michigan,  Nebraska, 
come  the  same  earnest  appeals. 

And  if,  as  we  believe,  the  saying  is  true  that  u  immigrations  and 
new  settlements  give  opportunities  for  the  gospel  like  those  which 
childhood  offers  in  the  household,"  what  precious  and  quickly  passing 
opportunities  the  Church  of  Christ  is  losing  through  this  great  famine 
oi  the  word  in  Western  America  I  and  how  terrible  must  be  the 
results  !  Only  those  who  know  from  history  or  experience  how 
quickly  a  community  oi  men  and  women  cut  off  from  religious  ob- 
Btnces,  and  deprived  of  a  Christian  ministry,  drift  into  practical 
heathenism,  can  fully  appreciate  His  love  and  wisdom  who  "  gave 
some  apostles,  and  some  evangelists,  and  some  pastors  and  teachers." 

The  knowledge  oi  this  state  of  things,  which  we  have  to  some 
extent  verified  by  personal  observation  during  a  recent  visit  to  the 
States,  has  made  us  willing  to  aid  not  a  few  young  men  to  prepare 


Siberian  Prisons,  [83 

tor  and  go  to  needy  spheres  in  the  western  states.  Though  out 
special  object  is  heathendom,  yet  there  are  sometimes  men  among 
(,mi  Btudenl .  who  have  so  nun  h  prea<  hing  gift,  that  it  s<   ins  a  pity 

they  should  w.r.le  linn-  in  learning  a  foreign  language,  instead  of 
proclaiming  the  gospel  in  their  own.  On  the  other  hand,  there  are 
sometimes  men  who  for  some  reason  or  other  cannot  go  among  the 
heathen.  J Joth  these  classes  we  are  glad  to  send  to  America,  and 
some  <>r  our  former  students  are  now  labouring  in  the  western  states 
among  the  coloured  people. 

ACROSS   RUSSIA   AND  SIBERIA  TO  CHINA. 

A  YOUNG  Russian  BROTHER,  JOSEPH  JOY  THEAKSTON,  made  a 
journey  of  about  ten  thousand  miles,  in  the  summer  of  1879,  across 
Siberia  to  the  borders  of  China,  over  a  line  of  country  very  little 
visited  by  travellers.  Mr.  The.ikston  went  out  as  helper  and  inter- 
preter to  Rev.  n.  Lansdale.  The  object  was  to  put  a  Testament 
or  gospel  portion  into  every  room  of  every  principal  prison  in 
Siberia.  Mr.  Thcakston  left  England  towards  the  end  of  April, 
and  readied  St.  Petersburg  on  May  ist.  They  travelled  by  the 
Volga  to  Perm,  at  the  foot  of  the  Ural  Mountains;  thence  by 
train  to  Nigni-Tagilsk  and  Yekaterinburg,  where  are  30,000  work- 
men employed  on  the  iron  works,  among  whom  they  distributed 
tracts.  Thence  200  miles  by  carriage'  to  Tumen,  and  250  farther 
to  Tobolsk.  Then  by  river  to  Tomsk,  600  miles  farther  on  the 
great  Siberian  road,  and  on  to  Irkutsk  and  Lake  Baikal,  and  as  far 
as  to  Kiachta,  on  the  frontiers  of  Siberia  and  China.  Thence  Mr. 
Lansdale  proceeded  to  Japan  and  St.  Francisco,  while  Mr.  Theak- 
ston  returned  through  Siberia  home — the  journey  and  return 
occupying  about  five  months,  during  which  time  the  travellers  dis- 
tributed 30,000  gospels  and  Testaments,  mostly  in  prisons,  hospitals, 
poor-houses,  public  works,  etc.  Some  prisons  in  Siberia  contained 
as  many  as  3,000  prisoners,  and  on  the  road  they  continually  saw 
and  passed  gangs  of  political  prisoners  being  marched  farther  east- 
ward ;  for,  while  criminals  are  located  in  the  comparatively  near 
portions  of  Siberia,  distinguished  political  prisoners  are  generally 
sent  to  the  extreme  east — to  Yakutsk.  These  wretched  prisoners 
were  heavily  chained  and  handcuffed,  and  when  travelling  by  river 
were  packed  in  the  barges  like  herrings  in  a  barrel.  Their  sufferings 
are  very  great,  and  their  condition  in  certain  cases,  as  regnrds  clean- 
liness, etc.,  most  deplorable. 


184  Bible  Distribution. 

As  a  rule  they  received  the  Scriptures  thankfully,  for  the  Russian 
law  permits  each  man  to  have  a  Bible  or  Testament,  but  no  other 
book.  Our  friends  travelled  literally  day  and  night,  sleeping  in  beds 
only  fifteen  or  eighteen  times  during  the  whole  of  the  land  journey. 
On  the  rivers  they  of  course  got  tolerably  comfortable  nights ;  but 
in  the  long  and  weary  carriage  journeys,  over  terribly  rough,  bad 
roads,  the  effort  to  sleep  in  the  "  tarrantass  "  was  productive  of  more 
distress  than  comfort,  so  that  at  times  they  were  wearied  out  and 
thoroughly  exhausted. 

The  general  impression  left  on  his  mind  by  this  journey  is  that 
Siberia  itself  is  not  so  dreadful  a  country  as  is  generally  supposed. 
Its  southern  portion,  at  any  rate,  through  which  he  passed,  is  by  no 
means  desolate  or  barren.  Abundance  of  fruitful  land  lies  every- 
where unoccupied.  During  the  months  of  his  visit  the  weather  was 
intensely  hot.  The  population  is  too  scanty  for  agriculture  to  be 
carried  on,  and  the  government  stations  are  actually  supplied  with 
corn  from  Russia,  at  heavy  cost  for  transport,  while  thousands  and 
thousands  of  acres  of  fertile  land,  which  would  produce  it,  lie  un- 
tilled.  A^illages  and  towns  are  few  and  far  between,  and  some  of 
the  Ostiak  and  other  villages  remind  one  of  collections  of  Indian 
wi "-warns.  Yet  these  people  are  nominally  Christians,  having  been 
"  converted  "  to  Christianity  by  Russian  command. 

Here  is  a  vast  and  almost  unattempted  field  of  Christian  labour, 
and  if  misery  be  an  effective  ploughshare  to  prepare  the  soil  of  the 
human  heart  for  the  gospel,  surely  nowhere  would  a  larger  number 
of  broken-spirited  and  despairing  men  and  women  be  met  with  than 
in  this  land  of  exiles  and  captives.  May  God  in  mercy  send  the 
gospel  of  light  and  liberty  to  many  a  broken  heart  in  Siberia  ! 


Central  Africa.  1S5 

ON  LAKE  TANGANYIKA,  CENTRAL  AFRICA. 

In  1376  the  London  Missionary  Society,  on  receiving  a  liberal 
donation  of  ,£5,000  from  Mr.  Robert  Arthington,  of  Leeds,  started 
a  mission  to  the  heart  of  Africa,  destined  for  the  town  of  Ujiji,  on 
Lake  Tanganyika — a  lake  which  is  an  African  Caspian,  and  deserves 
rather  the  name  of  a  sea.  The  place  has  been  visited  by  Living- 
stone, Stanley,  Cameron,  and  others,  but  no  messenger  of  the  gospel 
had  ever  been  located  among  the  tribes  dwelling  on  its  shores.  It 
lies  Soo  miles  in  a  direct  line  from  the  east  coast,  and  as  there  was 
no  semblance  of  a  road,  but  only  the  merest  caravan  track,  the 
journey  occupied  four  months.  There  were  no  means  of  locomo- 
tion ;  human  beings  were  the  only  beasts  of  burden  ;  and  this  was 
the  more  awkward  because  calico  was  the  currency  of  the  country, 
and  an  unfortunately  bulky  one.  An  army  of  porters  were  con- 
sequently required,  and  the  management  and  superintendence  of 
these  added  immensely  to  the  difficulty  of  the  task  of  penetrating 
so  far  into  the  interior  of  the  country.  The  directors  of  the  mission 
intended  to  place  a  steamer  on  the  lake,  and  Mr.  E.  C.  Hore,  an 
officer  in  the  merchant  service,  who  had  been  for  a  time  in  our 
Institute,  was  appointed  to  the  mission  to  explore  the  lake,  decide 
on  the  kind  of  vessel  suitable,  and  ultimately  to  take  charge  of  her. 
Mr.  Elbert  S.  Clark,  another  of  our  students,  who  had  already 
been  labouring  in  South  Africa,  also  made  one  of  this  expedition, 
but  from  failure  of  health  was  soon  obliged  to  return  to  the  coast 
and  ultimately  to  Natal. 

Mr.  (now  Captain)  Hore  wrote : 

I  must  give  you  some  little  account  of  this  mission,  which,  originally  con- 
sisting of  six  members,  is  now  reduced  to  three  by  the  return  of  Messrs.  Price 
and  Clark,  and  the  death  here,  on  September  22nd  last,  of  the  Rev.  J.  B. 
Thompson,  the  result  of  an  attack  of  apoplexy.  And  a  propos  of  this,  I  may 
solemnly  say,  brethren,  if  you  would  never  have  to  look  into  the  face  of  a  dying 
brother,  distorted  perhaps  by  some  fearful  malady,  and  grieve  that  you  know  not 
what  to  do  for  him,  strive  hard  to  get  all  the  medical  and  surgical  information  you 
can,  lose  no  hint  or  remark  which  may  enable  you  to  relieve  pain  or  arrest 
disease,  remembering  too  that  in  heathen  lands  "a  medicine  man"  is  the  first  to 
receive  attention  and  to  gain  influence. 

Detained  many  months  in  the  coast  regions,  trying  the  laborious  experiment 
of  introducing  bullock  wagons  as  the  mode  of  transport,  we  were  at  length  fairly 
defeated  by  the  fatal  tsetse  fly,  and  compelled  to  resort  to  the  old  method  ofpagasi, 
or  native  carriers,  Messrs.  Thomson,  Hutley,  and  myself,  with  a  caravan  of 
over  200  men,  left  Mpwapwa  on  June  12th  last.  On  the  day  of  the  date  of  your 
letter  we  were  haggling  with  the  native  chief  about  the  hongq,  or  black  mail,  at  the 


1 86  The  "Calabash? 

last  village  but  one  in  the  dreaded  country  of  Ugogo  ;  a  final  settlement  was  made 
by  giving  the  chiefs  wife  my  Good  Templar's  badge  !  After  this  we  got  on  faster, 
marching  sometimes  ten,  twelve,  and  even  sixteen  miles  per  day.  For  twenty- 
two  days  we  'marched  through  the  vast  forests  of  Unyanyembe  to  the  country  of 
the  great  chief  Mirambo. 

In  these  forests  vast  herds  of  game  roam  ;  here  is  the  home  of  the  lion,  the 
elephant,  and  the  rhinoceros,  their  footmarks  being  as  common  as  hoof-marks  on 
a  country  road.  At  noon  one  day  a  lion  sprang  upon  a  zebra  close  to  our  camp  ; 
we  all  turned  out  and  drove  off  the  lion,  while  the  poor  zebra  was  in  a  few 
minutes  distributed  all  over  the  camp  in  the  shape  of  joints  and  ribs  and  steaks. 

Hyaenas  have  troubled  our  camp  from  the  very  coast  to  this  place.  I  shot 
one  here  one  night  just  in  the  act  of  springing  'upon  our  goats.  At  night  the 
leopards,  which  are  very  numerous,  take  complete  possession  of  our  yard,  making 
it  necessary  to  put  our  goats  and  chickens  in  well-secured  houses.  We  arrived 
here  at  last  .'on  August  23rd,  1878.  We  have  hired  the  largest  and  best  Arab 
house  in  Ujiji  for  twelve  months.  Our  mission  is  somewhat  shackled  by  the  fears 
and  stupidity  of  the  Arab  merchants  here,  until  we  hear  further  from  the  sultan 
of  Zanzibar  to  further  confirm  his  letter  of  introduction  to  them,  which  described 
us  as  his  friends,  but  did  not  explain,  say  the  Arabs,  that  we  were  going  to  stay 
here  !     They  are  frightened  that  we  shall  in  some  way  stop  their  slave  trade. 

The  country  of  Manyema  is  their  Ophir  just  now,  from  whence  they  bring 
large  stores  of  slaves  and  ivory. 

CLIMATE  OF    UJIJI. 

How  shall  I  answer  the  question  that  will  doubtless  be  asked,  Is  Ujiji 
healthy  ?  During  our  arduous  journey,  though  marching  sometimes  fifteen  miles 
under  the  noon-day  sun,  and  subject  to  all  the  inconveniences,  exposure,  and 
anxieties  which  such  a  journey  entails,  we  had  no  fever,  but  kept  strong  and  in 
health.  But  after  being  some  weeks  here  the  fever  comes  on,  the  seasoning  fever, 
which  everybody  has,  Arabs,  coastmen,  or  Wanganweji,  on  getting  here  and 
settling  down  after  the  journey.  A'similar  fever  attacks  white  men  when  they  first 
land  on  the  coast.  It  is  a  contest  which  determines  to  a  great  extent  the  man's 
fitness  for  the  country. 

The  lake  looks  beautiful,  and  from  our  house  we  have  a  fine  view  of  it.  I 
have  a  large  Arab  boat  thirty-eight  feet  long,  and  have  just  completed  the  work 
of  rigging  her.  The  sails  and  rigging,  of  course,  I  have  made  all  myself,  also  the 
decking  of  the  craft,  and  the  building  in  her  of  a  snug  house,  of  bamboo  chiefly? 
and  canvas-roofed  over  reeds,  forming  two  nice  little  cabins  secure  from  the  rain. 
Her  name  is  the  Calabash.  I  have  also  a  little  dingy,  which  I  have  made  by 
cutting  a  long  log  canoe  in  half,  and  fixing  on  a  stern.  .She  is  also  rigged  for 
sailing. 

What  little  medical  knowledge  I  possess  has  already  proved  of  great  value. 
I  have  had  many  patients — dysentery,  fever,  rheumatism;  and  just  now  I  am 
doctoring  a  poor  slave,  whose  hand  was  blown  off  by  the  explosion  of  a  gun.  A 
good  many  people  have  bad  eyes,  and  I  have  one  patient  whose  bad  eye  used  to 
be  treated  by  Dr.  Livingstone,  whose  name  is  well  known  here.  Thus  far  our 
mission  is  decidedly  a  success  ;  we  have  planted  our  feet  on  the  soil,  and  sat  down 
on  the  shores  of  the  lake,  hitherto  so  difficult  of  access.  Pray  for  us,  that  we 
may  have  abundant  grace  and  strength  to  speak  the  words  of  eternal  life  to  these 
poor  people  who  are  under  the  curse  of  sin,  that  they  may  know  Christ  and  the 


Experiences  on   Tanganyika.  187 

life  and  immortality  which  He  has  brought   to   light,  and  gives  to  all  those   who 
come  to  God  through  Him. 

A  subsequent  letter  from  this  dear  brother  made  us  realize  how 
many  and  great  are  the  dangers  amidst  which  pioneer  missions  are 
carried  on.  Our  hearts  were  filled  with  thankfulness  as  we  read  of 
the  remarkable  preservations  granted  to  these  dear  brethren  by  land 
and  sea. 

English  Mission  House,  Ujiji, 

Dec.  10th,  1879. 
My  dear  Sir,— 

I  thank  you  for  your  letter  of  May  29th,  and  for  the  kind  interest  you 
express  in  the  work  in  which  I  am  engaged.  Such  letters  from  friends  are  very 
valuable  out  here,  as  well  for  their  words  of  encouragement  and  good  cheer  as 
for  every  little  item  of  news  concerning  those  at  home  in  whom  one  is  interested. 

I  see  you  are  helping  to  penetrate  the  Dark  Continent  from  the  west.  I 
believe  there  is  nothing  like  a  sea  life  to  make  a  good  pioneer  missionary.  I  hope 
none  of  the  students  will  miss  taking  a  month  in  the  Evangelist.  I  wish  indeed 
you  could,  as  you  say,  transport  her  hither.  My  Calabash  is  after  all  but  a  make 
shift,  though  the  new  Calabash  is  certainly  just  now  putting  on  a  more  respectal  ile 
appearance  (the  old  boat  was  only  hired  for  a  year)  ;  she  belongs  to  the  mission, 
and  therefore  I  have  prepared  her  more  elaborately  than  the  old  boat.  I  am 
putting  on  a  half  deck  at  each  end,  the  after  one  roofing  a  little  cabin.  The 
name  is  painted  ;  and  neatly  fitted  masts  and  rigging,  together  with  various 
little  fittings,  and  paint  and  varnish,  will  make  her  at  any  rate  the  finest  craft  on 
Tanganyika.  She  is  just  the  length  of  the  Evangelist,  but  not  quite  so  wide  and 
deep,  and  rigged  with  two  masts  (a  little  one  aft).  The  rig  is  very  handy  for 
manceuvring  quickly,  and  enables  her  to  sail  nearer  the  wind  than  she  could 
otherwise  do.  This  is  the  weak  point  of  these  keelless,  spoon-like  boats,  which 
however  run  before  the  wind  with  wonderful  speed.  I  was  fourteen  days  over 
one  trip  against  the  wind,  but  ran  back  in  two  days  and  a  half.  My  great  want 
is  some  skilled  assistance.  More  than  once  I  have  been  two  days  and  two  nights 
without  letting  go  the  tiller,  but  I  always  have  good  .health  when  afloat.  Tan- 
ganyika is  like  the  sea,  but  there  is  smooth  watei\more  frequently ;  the  sea  rises 
very  quickly  however,  and  there  are  frequent  fierce  squalls,  especially  at  the  com- 
mencement and  at  the  breaking  up  of  the  rainy  season.  The  masts,  sails,  an  d 
rigging  of  the  Calabash  I  have  made  myself,  and  the  wood  I  have  put  in  her 
I  cut  myself  in  the  Malagarasi  River.  I  have  visited  the  natives  round  abou1 
two-thirds  of  the  lake  shore,  and  am  now  about  starting  on  another  voyage  to 
complete  its  circumnavigation. 

I  have  seen  the  Lukuga  River  to  be— as  Stanley  guessed  it  was — the  outlet  of 
this  great  lake,  which  consequently  belongs  to  the  Congo  River  system.  We 
have  planted  a  station  in  Uguha,  on  the  eastern  shore  of  the  lake,  the  "  Plymouth 
Rock  "  station  now  occupied  by  Rev.  W.  Griffith  and  Mr.  Hutley.  I  hope  to 
have  other  suitable  sites  ready  negotiated  for  by  the  time  other  missionaries  arrive 

on  the  lake. 

*  *  *  »  * 

You  hare  doubtless  heard  of  some  of  our  trials  and  troubles.     I  have  buried 


1 88  Critical  Moments. 

two  brother  missionaries  here  in  Ujiji ;  one  was  here  a  month,  the  other  a  week  ! 
Poor  Dr.  Mullens,  in  his  anxiety  for  our  welfare  and  to  see  the  mission  established, 
has  been  sacrificed  in  the  same  cause.  But  for  the  Arab  Mirambo  agitation  and 
other  quarrels  on  the  road  stopping  communication,  letters  would  have  been 
received  showing  his  journey  to  be  unnecessary.  The  important  mail  following 
that  long  interval  has  also,  I  fear,  been  destroyed,  the  most  important  and  largest 
mail  yet  sent  to  the  coast,  and  which  I  can  never  replace. 

The  troubles  with  the  Arabs  are,  I  think,  nearly  finished,  that  is,  any  trouble 
of  great  clanger.  The  last  unpleasant  business  was  the  very  clay  before  the  arrival 
of  Messrs.  Southern  and  Griffith.  The  Arabs  filled  our  house  ;  their  slaves  and 
followers,  "armed  tothe  teeth,"  and  dressed  for  the  occasion  in  holiday  costume, 
danced  and  yelled  outside  (about  120  of  them),  and  actually  pointed  their  guns  at 
us  through  the  windows,  requesting  their  masters  "just  to  say  the  word  "  and  they 
would  fire.  Others  marching  up  and  clown  fired  off  for  display.  The  Arabs  were 
received  with  courtesy,  and  seated  within  ;  one  of  them  said,  "  Let  us  have  a  row, 
finish  them  off,  and  clear  out  the  house."  The  house  was  full  of  goods  at  that 
time  (for  it  contained,  as  well  as  our  own  stores,  those  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
missionaries  and  M.  Debaize,  the  French  explorer).  But  it  was  ordained  other- 
wise. One  or  two  of  the  more  respectable  Arabs  at  once  stood  up  and  said,  "  Let 
us  go,"  and  immediately  they  rose  as  one  man  and  went  out  quickly,  followed  by 
all  their  slaves,  who  however  went  off  dancing,  and  shouting,  and  firing  guns  like 
a  lot  of  madmen.  On  this  occasion  one  Arab  was  forced  in  by  the  others,  and 
several  were  reluctant  visitors.  They  have  feuds  and  jealousy  amongst  them- 
selves, and  this  is  our  safety,  with  a  little  tact  in  manipulating  the  circumstances 
as  the  Lord  gives  us  wisdom. 

Hundreds  of  the  Goma  people  stoned  me  in  the  night  from  their  lofty  hill- 
sides, on  which  they  mustered  like  the  Highland  clans,  by  fire  and  bugle,  on  my 
approach,  so  that  I  was  compelled  to  run  to  sea  in  all  haste  ;  but  when  daylight 
revealed  my  white  skin,  they  mustered  as  strongly  to  give  me  a  hearty  welcome 
to  their  shores,  for,  said  they,  "  the  white  man  is  good,  the  Wajiji  told  us  all  about 
him."  They  had  an  ambush  of  canoes  too  with  stones,  which  they  pitched  over- 
board in  my  sight,  as  they  escorted  me  to  shore  in  the  morning. 

One  night  I  slept  not  ;  rumour  said  that  night  was  appointed  for  our  destruc- 
tion by  the  Arabs'  slaves  and  followers.  One  of  my  men  ran  in  and  reported 
another  nearly  beaten  to  death  in  the  market  place,  where  the  Arabs'  slaves  were 
assembled  armed.  I  sent  a  man  to  the  houses  of  two  friendly  Arabs,  but  they 
were  reported  asleep.  One  Arab  was  heard  telling  some  evil  fellows  if  they  were 
ready  he  would  give  them  powder.  I  set  lights  to  show  we  were  not  asleep.  A 
large  party  of  Arabs'  men  assembled  behind  our  house  and  walked  about.  I 
kept  the  lights  burning,  and  before  morning  all  was  quiet. 

Mirambo  was  reported  to  be  approaching  Ujiji  with  two  thousand  warriors 
(our  matters  with  Mirambo  were  not  cleared  up  then,  or  I  should  have  had  no 
thought  of  danger).  The  Arabs  mustered  all  their  guns  and  men,  and  built  loop- 
holed  embankments  all  round  their  houses  and  across  the  town.  Some  fled  to 
Kigoma,  others  prepared  their  boats  for  flight,  and  sent  the  women  and  children 
away.  Scouts  spied  out  the  country  around.  By  night  Hutley  and  I  buried  a 
good  stock  of  valuables  beneath  the  ground  in  our  storeroom.  None  but  we  two 
knew  aught  about  it.  But  Mirambo  did  not  come.  Afterwards  Mirambo  said, 
"  Yes,  I  should  have  come,  but  that  my  friends  the  white  men  were  there." 


A  Merciful  Preservation.  189 

At  noon  I  ran  north.  A  fine  fair  breeze  promised  to  take  me  to  some  port  in 
Uvira  by  evening  :  the  breeze  however  increased  to  a  gale,  with  rising  sea,  and  a 
reef  was  hid  ;  the  old  Calabash  flew  along  trembling,  and  the  sea  still  rose  fast 
and  furious.  The  gale  increased ;  every  stitch  of  sail  was  snug  furled,  but  still 
she  scudded  before  the  increasing  blast.  Night  approached,  dark  and  cloudy, 
soon  after  sighting  the  coast  at  the  north  end  of  the  lake,  which  we  were  now 
approaching  rapidly.  I  expected  the  wind  to  cease  at  sunset,  but  it  did  not,  and 
darkness  found  us  rushing  on  to  an  unknown  coast  before  a  furious  gale  and  sea. 
I  would  now  have  turned  the  boat  round  and  rode  it  out  with  the  paddles,  but  the 
sea  was  so  bad  that  it  was  very  dangerous  to  attempt  doing  so  ;  I  therefore  kept  on> 
hoping  the  wind  would  cease  as  usual  with  the  declining  day,  but  still  it  continued 
in  full  force.  Darkness  closed  around  us  ;  in  another  hour  I  knew  we  must  be 
very  near  the  shore,  and  though  extremely  dangerous  to  attempt,  it  was  my  duty 
to  try  and  turn  the  boat  round.  I  therefore  placed  all  the  men  in  position,  paddles 
in  hand,  duly  impressing  them  with  the  importance  of  the  position.  Earnestly 
watching  each  sea  for  a  smooth  chance  to  turn,  a  bigger  wave  than  usual  suddenly 
foamed  up  all  round  the  boat  ;  the  old  boat  trembled  again,  and  nearly  shook  the 
tiller  out  of  my  hand,  but  immediately  afterwards  it  became  much  smoother,  and 
in  another  minute  I  was  convinced  by  the  sudden  change  of  the  sea  that  I  was  in 
shallow  water.  At  once  we  turned  the  boat  round  with  safety,  and,  sounding, 
found  only  two  fathoms  of  water.  Keeping  the  men  working  at  the  paddles,  I 
ran  forward,  lashed  together  three  big  stones  we  had  in  the  boat,  and  casting 
them  over  by  way  of  anchor  we  rode  in  safety  till  morning.  Daylight  revealed 
the  shore  300  yards  astern  I 

Hitherto  the  Lord  hath  helped  us,  and  delivered  and  upheld  us  in  danger  and 
trouble  and  sickness. 

"For  mercies  countless  as  the  sands, 
Which  daily  I  receive 
From  Jesus  my  Redeemer's  hands, 
My  soul,  what  canst  thou  give?" 

Let  us  give  Him  all  the  glory,  and  be  found  amongst  those  who  return  to  give 
thanks.  Let  us  give  ourselves,  body,  mind,  and  spirit,  energy  and  strength  ;  and 
though  at  the  end  but  unprofitable  servants,  we  shall  receive  the  "  well  done,"  the 
reward — salvation,  the  reward  to  them  that  diligently  seek  ;  glory  to  those  who 
are  faithful  unto  the  end  ;  no  wages,  but  a  free  gift  ;  eternal  life  through  Christ 
Jesus. 

Surgical  Work  under  Difficulties. 

My  first  real  amputation  case  has  healed  successfully  ;  and  the  poor  man, 
though  an  Arab  slave,  often  comes  about,  and  says  he  should  like  always  to  stop 
with  me  and  do  some  work  for  me.  This  man  had  an  iron  ring  and  staple  firmly 
blacksmithed  on  to  his  right  wrist,  and  stuck  in  a  log ;  after  remaining  some 
weeks  in  that  position  the  arm  swelled  so  that  his  master  drew  the  staple  out  of 
the  log,  but  the  ring  could  not  possibly  be  taken  off  the  wrist,  though  they  tried 
hard  to  do  so.  For  weeks  the  man  carried  the  iron  about  on,  or  rather  in,  his 
swollen  arm,  until  some  one  told  him  of  the  doctor  here  (Dr.  Southon)  ;  so  he 
came  to  our  house,  but  the  doctor  was  gone  then  to  Mirambo's.  The  arm  was 
mortified,  it  and  the  hand  being  about  three  times  the  size  of  the  other.  I  told 
him  it  must  be  cut  off,  and  he  willingly  assented  ;  so  I  cut  it  off  a   little  short  of 

N 


i  go  Severe  Losses. 

the  elbow,  and  now  he  is  quite  healed  and  has  a  good  smooth  round  stump.  I 
had  to  do  the  amputation  with  a  small  knife  and  a  carpenter's  saw.  I  have  done 
several  surgical  operations,  but  this  was  the  first  real  amputation.  I  use  a  piece 
of  india  rubber  pocket  filter  tube  for  a  tourniquet,  and  find  it  very  handy  and  not 
in  the  way,  which  is  very  good  when  the  tourniquet  must  be  near  the  operation, 
because  it  is  very  little  in  the  way  and  very  efficient.  To  tie  the  india  rubber 
would  be  very  awkward,  so  I  have  a  piece  of  string  fast  to  each  end  of  the  india 
rubber,  which  makes  it  easy  to  unfasten  or  slacken. 

I  have  found  great  benefit  from  a  medicine  which  I  don't  see  recommended 
by  any  traveller  or  mentioned  in  the  way  I  use  it  {viz.  as  a  tonic  after  fever  when 
results  affect  the  head  and  eyes),  in  any  of  the  medical  books,  viz,  zinc.  Hulley 
was  laid  up  for  weeks  with  bad  head  and  eyes  and  general  weakness  after  fever  ; 
quinine  made  his  head  worse.  I  saw  in  a  homoeopathic  book  some  preparation  of 
zinc  recommended  for  the  head,  so  I  determined  to  try  it.  I  gave  sulphate  of 
zinc  in  tonic  doses  if  gr.  three  times  a  day  in  pills,  and  a  collyrium,  4  grs.  each 
of  sulph.  zinc  and  acet.  lead  to  6  ozs.  water  ;  a  few  days  effected  a  perfect  cure. 
The  same  has  cured  me  more  than  once  of  after  effects  in  head,  from  which  how- 
ever I  seldom  suffer,  the  after  effects  with  me  being  more  frequently  general. 
(You  may  see  some  of  the  after  effects  of  a  fever  I  have  just  had  in  this  writing  : 
try  my  best,  I  cannot  write  better.) 

The  London  Missionary  Society  subsequently  received  a  donation 
of  ^3,000  for  the  purpose  of  putting  a  steamer  on  Lake  Nyassa,  and 
Mr.  Hore  returned  to  England  to  superintend  the  construction  of 
this  vessel,  which  had  to  be  carried  out  in  sections  and  rebuilt  on 
the  lake.  On  this  occasion  he  married,  and  took  his  young  wife 
and  infant  child  back  with  him  to  Africa,  to  undertake  the  long  800 
mile  walk  from  Zanzibar  to  the  lake.  Very  tragic  and  painfully 
interesting  have  been  the  fortunes  of  this  mission,  which  has  lost 
many  of  its  members — some  almost  immediately  on  their  arrival  in 
the  country. 

Since  the  commencement  of  the  mission  twenty-three  persons 
have  been  sent  out  to  take  part  in  the  work,  of  whom  no  fewer  than 
ten  have  been  removed  by  death,  and  nine  have  retired  from  the 
service,  so  that  last  year  the  entire  staff  of  the  mission  was  reduced 
to  four !  Capt.  Hore  however  has  been  graciously  preserved,  and 
has  held  on  heroically  to  the  stern  task  of  gaining  an  entrance  for 
the  gospel  among  the  Uguha  tribes  of  Tanganyika. 

Kavala  Island. 

We  learn  from  the  Chronicle  of  the  London  Missionary  Society 
that  Kavala  Island  has  become  the  head-quarters  of  "  the  marine 
department "  of  the  Tanganyika  Mission.  In  1883  Captain  Hore 
selected  it  for  this  purpose.     Ujiji  was  no  longer  suitable.     It  had 


Kavala  Island.  191 

ceased  to  be  the  place  of  importance  it  had  formerly  been  !  Trade 
had  to  a  large  extent  deserted  it,  and  the  population  was  greatly 
diminished.  Its  northern  position,  and  great  distance  from  the 
south  end  of  the  lake,  together  with  its  want  of  a  harbour,  also  com- 
bined to  render  it  unfit  for  the  location  of  the  mission  vessels  and 
stores.  Captain  Hore,  in  a  communication  of  that  date,  stated  that 
he  had  "  chosen  a  very  nice  spot,  with  an  extensive  and  beautiful 
harbour,  on  the  inner  side  of  Kavala  Island,  Uguha."  "  There  are," 
he  went  on  to  say,  "  three  or  four  villages  on  the  island  of  friendly 
and  pleasant  people,  who  bid  me  welcome.  The  spot  I  have  chosen 
is  close  to,  almost  in,  a  nice  village,  and  I  have  built  up  quite  a 
plan  of  work  for  Mrs.  Hore  amongst  the  children  here." 

In  January,  1885,  Captain  Hore,  through  the  good  providence  of 
God,  succeeded  in  piloting  his  wife  and  their  little  boy  Jack  through 
all  the  discomfort,  fatigue,  and  danger  of  the  journey  from  the  coast 
to  Ujiji.  After  a  stay  of  a  few  weeks'  duration  at  Ujiji,  a  move  was 
made  to  the  island  home,  which  has  since  become  the  centre  of 
humanising  mission  work,  and  around  which  interest  has  slowly  but 
surely  gathered.  People  from  the  mainland  have  gone  over  and 
settled  there,  including  the  chief  himself,  and  the  benighted  people 
are  learning  to  appreciate  the  kindly  influence  exerted  upon  them 
by  Christian  family  life. 

The  distance  from  Kavala  to  the  mainland  directly  opposite  is 
about  half  a  mile,  or  a  little  more.  The  length  of  the  island  is 
between  two  and  three  miles,  and  its  breadth  from  half  a  mile  to  a 
mile. 

Great  ingenuity  has  been  shown  by  the  captain  in  the  construc- 
tion of  house,  furniture,  school  material,  and  so  forth.  Mrs.  Hore 
writes  that  the  blackboard  for  her  school  was  made  out  of  two 
leaves  of  a  dining  table,  and  the  crayons  for  writing  on  it  are 
composed  of  magnesia,  rice,  and  sugar ;  while  the  legs  of  the  forms 
were  made  from  some  of  the  boat-cart  frames. 

With  regard  to  the  station  itself,  writes  Captain  Hore,  I  have  inclosed  with 
a  low  stone  wall  about  four  acres  of  ground,  including  sites  for  premises,  shore 
for  all  marine  purposes,  with  approaches  to  the  houses,  and  certain  garden  ground. 

Having  all  the  advantages  of  elevation  close  to  the  lake  side,  we  have  con- 
sequently to  put  up  graciously  with  some  steep  ascents.  These  I  have  made  as 
easy  as  possible  by  broad  beaten  roads,  ending  in  a  terrace  along  the  hillside  to 
the  house.  The  roads  have  afforded  much  satisfaction  to  the  people,  who  now 
have  a  clear  way  to  their  gardens,  between  which  and  the  chief  village  your 
establishment  lies.     In  addition  to  the  fruits  I  have  already  told  you  were  planted, 


192  Present  State  of  the  Mission. 

I  have  now  150  banana  trees  symmetrically  placed,  and  the  like  number  of  sugar 
canes  to  absorb  a  swampy  spot  on  the  beach,  and  some  English  garden  and  flower 
seeds  are  already  coming  up.  The  whole  place  excites  the  admiration  of  all 
beholders,  who  compare  it  with  Zanzibar  or  Muscat,  according  as  they  have 
travelled. 

I  am  now  able  to  report  without  the  least  exaggeration  that  we  have  here  a 
most  flourishing  and  respectable  station  (although  the  actual  buildings  are  yet 
only  of  the  kind  we  term  temporary),  with  all  the  agents  in  good  health  and  with 
civilized  manners  (for  the  mud  table  era  is  now  passed),  and  living  on  friendly 
terms  with  the  natives  ; — a  station  at  which  is  held  a  daily  school  for  girls,  a  daily 
school  for  boys,  weekly  worship  of  God,  and  class  for  religious  instruction — all 
instituted,  not  by  any  strained  effort,  but  at  the  direct  request  of  the  chief  and 
people. 

I  may  say  I  have  worked  from  6  a.m.  to  6  p.m.  for  months  past,  and  it  is 
certainly  as  master  of  works  that  I  have  gained  Kavala's  admiration  ;  but  the 
centre  and  strength  of  our  powerful  influence  doubtless  lay  in  the  arrival  and 
presence  of  my  wife  and  child,  and  its  resulting  details  in  Mrs.  Hore's  girls' 
school. 

Plans  Adopted. 

I  had  long  thought  that  I  should  be  best  serving  the  interests  of  the  mission 
by  applying  myself  almost  exclusively  to  that  line  of  things  specially  pertaining 
to  my  department,  and  in  which  I  could  feel  I  was  doing  efficient  work,  and 
remained  the  more  contented  in  this  view  while  stations  were  being  held  and  work 
done  by  men  specially  fitted. 

l!u  t  coming  now  for  the  first  time  to  the  establishing  of  a  station,  I  have  from 
the  first  felt  a  different  sort  of  responsibility,  and  have  specially  tried,  by  conversa- 
tions and  otherwise,  to  enlighten  the  chief  on  the  end  and  purpose  of  our  mission ; 
so  that  when  at  last  he  asked  me  why  I  did  not  teach  the  boys  as  well  as  the  girls, 
although  I  was  then  obliged  to  say  that  we  must  get  settled  first,  etc.,  I  was  in  a 
state  of  mind  favourable  to  being  persuaded  by  myself  to  undertake  it.  I  needed 
a  little  thought  and  persuasion,  because  I  could  not  bear  to  commence  it  and  then 
give  it  up  ;  so  one  day  I  announced  the  boys'  school,  which  has  been  continued 
daily.  Then  the  chief  said,  "  Why  don't  you  instruct  the  adults?  "  I  said,  "  Wait," 
and  he  asked  again.  After  prayer  and  consideration  I  undertook  this  also, 
although  experiment  shows  that  the  class  will  become  one  of  youths  rather  than 
adults,  the  former  thoroughly  believing  in  us,  while  the  latter  hold  fast  (now  at 
least)  to  their  old  traditions.  The  chief  himself  however  has  been  much  influenced, 
and  I  think,  to  commence  with,  is  disposed  to  place  great  credence  in  anything  we 
promulgate.  As  I  have  never  been  specially  ordained  to  this  work,  I  shall  give 
you  some  particulars  of  my  method  of  procedure.  The  boys'  school  is  designed  to 
teach  the  boys  Kishwahili,  especially  with  a  view  to  enabling  them  to  read  the 
Scriptures,  and  to  understand  religious  teaching  in  that  language.  They  are 
very  interested,  but  they  could  not  stand  the  monotony  of  incessant  alphabet  and 
syllables  ;  and  so  I  teach  them  other  odd  words,  forming  keys  to  early  Scripture 
teaching,  and  have  commenced  a  sort  of  catechism  on  the  lines  of  the  "  Peep  of 
Day"  in  endeavour  to  keep  them  parallel  with  the  religious  instruction  class.  The 
girls'  school  is  conducted  much  on  the  same  lines,  but  have  got  so  far  as  to  open 
daily  with  prayer.  Feeling  that  the  forms  of  religion  are  as  essential  (before 
attainment  of  knowledge)  to  the  religious  teaching  of  these  people  as  to  our 
children,  and  that  if  I  exhorted  the  people  to    worship  God  there  must  be  worship 


Hopeful  Signs.  193 

for  them  to  come  to,  I  undertook  to  conduct  the  same  on  Sunday  mornings  in  the 
Kiswahili  language.  The  service  is  short,  and  follows  very  much  the  order  of 
that  of  the  Church  of  England,  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  being  done  in  the 
afternoon  class  at  present,  until  such  time  as  a  few  intelligent  hearers  exist.  By 
degrees  we  hope  to  improve  and  enlarge  ;  but  I  think  it  well,  although  few  ye1 
understanding,  to  maintain  the  regular,  and,  I  may  say,  formal  service,  always 
accompanied  by  the  necessary  "instruction  class."  The  fact  is,  that,  while  in  the 
former  my  hearers  require  considerable  education  before  they  can  understand  the 
classical  Kiswahili  I  read,  they  are  deeply  interested  when,  in  the  latter,  I  explain 
matters  in  a  conversational  lingo  on  their  own  level.  Meantime  I  am  myself 
rapidly  attaining  a  higher  standard  of  Kiswahili  than  I  have  been  accustomed  to 
use,  assisted  also  by  my  wife,  who,  although  often  requiring  my  interpretation  in 
ordinary  transactions,  is  well  able  to  correct  me  in  every  sentence. 

I  cannot  boast  to  have  attained  to  the  extent  of  work  you  report  as  having 
existed  at  Liendwe  and  Butonga,  which  require  a  more  intimate  knowledge  of  the 
language  than  mine ;  but  if  all  goes  well  with  us,  I  do  think  we  shall  be  able 
somewhat  to  lay  the  foundations  for  some  more  competent  man,  whom  I  beg  you 
to  send  to  make  use  of  these  excellent  opportunities  for  preaching  the  gospel  to 
the  Waguha. 

Suggestions  for  the  Future. 

My  plan  for  successful  work  here,  after  such  experience  as  I  have  had,  is 
the  same  as  when  I  first  came  to  the  island  ;  viz.  that  I  should  be  made  the  most 
fully  valuable  to  you  by  continuing  in  charge  of  the  station  with  one  more  assistant 
(a  mechanic — preferably  a  ship's  carpenter),  and  two  gentlemen  who  should  repre- 
sent you  fully  according  to  your  usual  methods  and  regulations,  as  ordained 
missionary  and  medical  man,  to  whom  I  could  then  fully  minister  in  providing 
and  maintaining  residences,  mails,  and  all  lake  transport  and  general  business, 
and  also  be  able  to  continue  the  large  and  delightful  work  still  before  the  marine 
department  of  continual  missionary  visits  all  round  the  lake.  My  wife,  and 
perhaps  myself,  would  become  school  assistants  to  the  missionary.  And  with 
my  additional  assistant,  and  the  Good  Neios  finished,  I  should  be  able  to  super- 
intend and  maintain,  as  well  as  the  station  itself,  those  various  industrial  accessories 
so  necessary  both  to  the  maintenance  of  our  own  premises  and  vessels,  and  to  our 
complete  influence  and  improving  power  over  the  natives. 

I  too  often  find  myself  with  my  head  down,  doing  little  more  than  labourer's 
work,  and  men  around  me  simply  looking  on,  when  with  further  assistance  I  could 
be  doing  work  of  treble  the  value  by  superintending  several  jobs. 

A  Sunday  Morning. 
I  have  just  come  out  of  church,  and  it  came  to  my  mind  how,  if  you  and 
others  could  only  see  us  here  now,  how  you  would  indeed  rejoice,  even  at  the  small 
beginning  which  is  being  made.  The  church  bell,  the  Sunday  clothes,  little  Jack 
and  Mrs.  Hore  with  their  books,  and  other  Sunday  signs,  stir  me  with  joy,  and 
indeed  astonishment.  We  had  an  attendance  of  about  thirty-five  real  natives,  all 
attentive  and  orderly.  Will  you  not  send  them  a  preacher  ?  I  have  already 
made  some  improvement  in  the  service,  reading  the  Scriptures,  and  introducing 
prayers  for  the  chief  and  people  and  for  our  own  chiefs  and  people.  The  next 
step  will  be  a  short  address.  I  am  afraid  it  must  be  in  lingo.  This  is  a  great 
question  with  me.     Shall  I  build  a  hasty  structure  in  lingo,  or  slowly  lay  more 


194 


Language. 


solid  foundations  in  good  Swahili  ?     Will  you  please  bring  this  question  before 
our  directors  (in  the  larger  aspect  of  course)  ? 

The  various  languages,  say,  for  convenience,  dialects,  round  the  lake  are 
numerous,  and  some  spoken  only  by  a  few  people.  These  dialects  are  not  copious 
enough  for  religious  teaching,  and  by  the  time  they  are  acquired,  enriched,  and 
put  on  paper  there  may  be  few  to  use  some  of  them,  and  many  languages  in  the 
one  mission.  On  the  other  hand,  there  already  exists  a  literature,  including 
nearly  the  whole  Bible,  in  Kiswahili.  It  is  fashionable  with  the  Tanganyika 
natives,  as  English  is  with  the  Japanese,  and  once  common  here  would  soon 
become  the  language  of  all  East  Africa.  I  would  suggest  that  the  time  has 
arrived  when  this  question  should  be  dealt  with,  "What  is  to  be  the  language  of 
the  mission?  "  and  that  there  are  now  sufficient  grounds  upon  which  the  directors 


AFRICAN"    HOMES. 


can  consider  it ;  viz.  the  well-known  facts  about  the  Kiswahili,  and  the  ample 
particulars  Mr.  Jones  will  be  able  to  give  them  regarding  the  Kiguha,  which  may 
be  taken  as  a  model  of  the  Tanganyika  dialect. 


The  time  would  fail  us  to  speak  of  our  former  students,  Menchaca, 
Carrasco,  Lund,  Menezes,  and  others,  in  Spain  and  Portugal ;  of 
Messrs.  Orest  and  Liljestrand,  in  Sweden  ;  of  the  large  group 
of  brethren  in  South  and  East  Africa ;  or  of  those  in  the  colonies. 
All  are  doing  good  work  according  to  their  respective  talents  and 


Other   Workers.  195 

opportunities,  and  all  will,  we  doubt  not,  come  again  with  rejoicing, 
bringing  their  sheaves  with  them.  Many  of  them  have  exhibited 
great  constancy,  and  even  heroism,  under  trying  circumstances,  and 
many  have  met  with  marked  success  and  blessing. 

And,  above  all,  time  would  fail  us  here  even  to  sketch  the  history 
of  our  most  important  and  interesting  missionary  effort— 

THE  FIRST  CHRISTIAN  MISSION  ON  THE  CONGO. 

We  must  reserve  its  story  for  another  pamphlet,  as  it  demands  one 
to  itself.  We  may  however  just  remark  in  passing,  that  our  men 
were  privileged  to  enter  that  vast  and  wholly  unevangelized  and 
then  recently  opened  country  in  January,  1878,  and  to  found  the 
Livingstone  Inland  Mission,  which  in  six  years  penetrated,  in 
spite  of  terrible  obstacles,  seven  hundred  miles  into  interior  Africa, 
forming  a  chain  of  seven  stations  from  the  Atlantic  coast  to  the 
equator.  Fourteen  brethren  and  sisters  laid  down  their  lives  in  the 
prosecution  of  this  enterprise  (three  of  whom  were  coloured  men), 
and  a  still  larger  number  were  invalided  home.  Fifty  missionaries 
in  all  were  sent  out,  the  language  was  acquired,  a  dictionary  and 
grammar  prepared  in  it,  and  portions  of  the  gospels  translated ;  a 
steam  launch  was  sent  out  for  the  lower  river,  and  a  larger  one  for 
the  upper  river,  which  had  to  be  carried  in  plates  and  pieces  three 
hundred  miles  into  the  interior  and  reconstructed  on  the  level  of 
the  upper  Congo,  to  carry  the  messengers  of  the  Cross  into  the  heart 
of  Africa.  All  this  story  of  heroic  and  successful  endeavour  we 
must  reserve  for  the  present,  but  as  the  establishment  of  this  mission 
taxed  to  the  utmost  the  energies  of  the  Institute  for  some  years,  and 
involved  an  additional  outlay  of  between  twenty  and  thirty  thousand 
pounds,  it  demands  at  least  this  passing  mention.* 

We  must  close  this  section  with  a  list  of  the  various  missionaries 
who  have  gone  out  from  our  Institute  in  the  last  twelve  years. 

Two  went  to  evangelize  the  English  soldiers  and  railway  men  in 
India,  Mr.  Nelson  making  Saharanpore  his  head-quarters,  and  Mr. 
Rawson  Ahmedabad.  The  latter  travelled  over  36,000  miles  on  the 
long  line  between  Bombay  and  Delhi  during  three  years,  preaching 
the  gospel  all  along  the  line,  and  caring  for  the  souls  of  our  poor 
neglected  countrymen. 

*  Sec  the  "  First  Christian  Mission  on  the  Congo."  Hodder  &  Stoughton, 
27,  Paternoster  Row,  London,  E.C. 


196  Gone  everywhere  Preaching  Christ. 

Our  Jewish  students  have  mostly  devoted  themselves  to  the 
evangelization  of  their  own  people,  the  seed  of  Abraham.  Two  of 
them,  Messrs.  Baron  and  Barnet,  are  associated  with  the  Mildmay 
Mission  to  the  Jews  ;  one,  Mr.  Abramovitch,  with  the  London  City 
Mission  ;  and  one,  Mr.  Kestin,  is  labouring  in  Alexandria. 

Several  have  settled  among  the  Zulu  Kafirs  in  Natal,  and  many 
more  among  the  Hottentots  of  the  Cape  Colony. 

One  brother  devoted  himself  to  visiting  the  Estancias  on  the 
pampas  of  South  America,  and  another  to  itinerant  evangelization 
among  the  scattered  settlers  in  Queensland.  Eight  or  nine  are 
working  among  the  coloured  people  in  the  West  Indies. 

Some  have  become  useful  pastors  and  teachers  in  our  own  land, 
as  for  instance  Mr.  Matter,  of  Belfast,  Mr.  Bain,  of  Homerton,  and 
Mr.  Towner,  of  Stratford ;  and  some  in  Canada,  as  Mr.  Hutchinson, 
of  St.  Thomas,  Mr.  William  Needham,  etc. 

Some  are  in  Nova  Scotia,  and  some  in  Newfoundland,  and  even 
in  Labrador. 

One  is  among  the  Santhal  Pergunnahs  in  Bengal,  and  one  among 
the  Burmese  of  Rangoon. 

Several  are  on  the  Gambia,  at  Old  Calabar,  and  elsewhere  on  the 
West  Coast  of  Africa. 

STUDENTS   OF  NON-EUROPEAN   NATIONALITIES. 

To  give  a  fair  idea  of  our  work  we  must  add  a  few  sketches  ot 
some  of  our  foreign  students.  One  of  these  is  a  Parsee  from  Bom- 
bay, Manekje  Mody,  who  left  the  Institute  in  1S7S.  He  was  by 
birth  a  Parsee,  and  belongs  to  a  family  of  staunch  Zoroastians,  or  fire 
worshippers. 

His  father  placed  him  at  a  school  where  he  was  thrown  in  contact 
with  Christian  boys,  and  by  them  introduced  to  several  ministers 
and  missionaries,  from  whom  he  learned  so  much  of  Christianity 
as  to  make  him  set  light  by  his  own  religion.  Still  he  was  not 
converted  at  the  time  of  his  first  marriage  ;  he  knew  the  truth, 
but  did  not  love  it.  The  Lord  was  pleased  to  remove  his  young 
wife  from  him,  and  this  sorrow  had  the  effect  of  turning  him,  for 
a  time,  into  a  devoted  Parsee.  "  I  began  to  rise  at  three  in  the 
morning,  and  to  spend  a  couple  of  hours  before  breakfast  and  be- 
fore dinner  in  praying  and  performing  outward  ceremonies,  though 
I  never  knew  the  meaning  of  what  I  read  in   the  prayer-book,  the 


A  Parsee  Student.  197 

language  being  Zend.  When  I  drank  water  or  tea  it  was  with 
covered  or  else  freshly  washed  hands.  I  spent  much  money  in  rites 
for  the  dead,  and  gave  to  priests  and  fire  temples.  For  eighteen 
months  I  used  to  visit  every  morning  the  '  towers  of  silence  '  {i.e.  the 
Parsee  sepulchre,  where  the  dead  are  exposed  to  be  devoured  by 
vultures  kept  for  the  purpose),  and  I  felt  earnest  and  sincere  all  the 
time." 

Manekje  Mody  was  delivered  at  last  from  the  power  of  darkness 
by  the  preaching,  in  Bombay,    of  Rev.  William  Taylor,    of   Cali- 
fornia.     He   heard    this   eminent   evangelist    several    times,    both 
indoors  and  in  the  open  air,  and  was  deeply  convinced  of  his  sin 
and  of  the  futility  of  all  his  religious  observances,  and  led  to  faith 
in  Christ  and  to  peace  in  God.     Then  came  the  cross.     He  knew 
what  would  be  the  result  of  confessing  Christ  in  baptism ;  but  the 
Lord  strengthened   him  to  meet   the   bitter   trials  connected  with 
the  abjuring  the  faith  of  his  fathers.     There  was  fury  and  lamenta- 
tion among  friends  and  relatives,  and  when  he  was  found  obdurate 
he  was  cut  off,  as  one  dead,  from  his  social  circle.     But  Christian 
friends  were  raised  up  to  welcome  the  outcast,  and  he  soon  began 
proclaiming  the  faith  he  had  once  opposed  in  the  open  air  in  Bom- 
bay, an  unheard  of  thing  for  a  Parsee.      His  friends,   Captain  and 
Mrs.  Oldham,  feeling  that  he  needed  to  learn  the  way  of  God  more 
perfectly,  very  kindly  brought  him  with  them  to  England,  and  we 
received  him  into  the  Institute.     He  was  with  us  between  two  and 
three  years,    and    found   at    Harley  House,   not    only    instruction 
and  Christian  fellowship,  but  a  Christian  wife,  a  true  helpmeet  for 
him.     This  lady,   Miss  Isette  Toor,   of  Tavistock,  had  long  been 
desiring  to  devote  her  life  to  mission  work  in   India,  and  seemed 
by  her  intellectual  superiority  and  remarkable  linguistic  ability  par- 
ticularly suited  for  the  work  of  training  native  teachers.     She  had 
taken  prizes  from  the  Christian  Evidence  Society,  and  obtained  most 
honourable  certificates  at  the  Senior  Cambridge  Examination.     The 
Lord  had  also  blessed  her  spiritual  labours,  and  we  rejoiced,  for 
Mr.  Mody's  sake,  when  we  found  she  had  consented  to  cast  in  her 
lot  with  him.     The  Christian  partners  in  a  firm  in  Manchester  under- 
took to  sustain  their  mission  to  the  Parsees.     They  reached  Bombay 
at  the  end  of  March. 

The  Parsee  community  in  India  is  rapidly  imbibing  European 
customs  and  opinions,  and  is  steadily  rising  in  influence.  But  the 
prejudice  against  Christianity  is  strong,  and  the  wealth  and  respecta- 


193 


Among  the  Parsees. 


FARSEE   CHILDREN,    BOMBAY. 


bility  of  the  majority  of  these  people  does  not  render  the  intro- 
duction of  the  gospel  into  their  families  an  easy  task. 
Mr.  Mody  writes  : 

I  have  been  preaching  every  day  in  the  open  air,  near  the  Money  School, 
from  a  little  after  5  till  7  or  7 .30;  and  I  am  glad  to  say  there  has  not  been  a  day 
without  a  good  audience  to  hear  the  glad  tidings  of  salvation.  It  is  a  matter  of 
surprise  to  me  that  I  have  had  physical  and  spiritual  strength  to  sing,  speak,  and 
pray  in  three  different  languages,  including  English,  daily,  so  as  to  reach  three 
different  nationalities  in  their  own  tongue.  There  are  many  young  men  who  do 
not  care  to  hear  anything  except  in  English.  I  make  them  understand  that  I  am 
not  going  to  lecture  them  on  secular  subjects,  but  only  to  tell  them  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  what  He  has  done  for  them. 

Gospel  preaching  in  Bombay  is  a  very  different  thing  to  gospel  preaching  in 


Open-air   Work  in  Bombay. 


199 


England  !  The  people  here  have  their  ancestral  religion,  including  all  sorts  of 
rites  and  ceremonies,  penalties,  etc.,  and  they  want  us  first  to  prove  that  their 
religion  is  not  from  God ;  of  Christ  they  know  only  the  name.  Multitudes  con- 
sider that  baptism  is  really  conversion.  I  have  had  to  do  my  utmost  in  order  to 
undo  this  and  several  other  false  notions,  a  task  which  demands  a  great  deal  of 
tact  and  much  prayer.  The  city  is  full  of  religion  without  Christ  and  His  power. 
They  have  their  gods  according  to  their  own  fancy,  and  which  suit  their  purposes. 
They  would  like  the  laws  of  the  living  and  true  God  if  they  permitted  them  to 
enjoy  the  pleasures  of  this  world.  They  verily  believe  that  a  little  charity,  prayers 
to  unknown  gods,  penances  and  other  ritual  observances  for  the  living,  and  more 
especially  for  the  dead,  are  the  only  essentials  for  obtaining  the  favour  of  God  and 
heaven.  That  Christ  died  for  their  sins  is  a  most  puzzling  problem,  that  God 
should  have  become  their  Saviour,  that  any  one  may  be  eternally  saved  by  faith, 
etc.,  etc.,  these  things  are  still  more  perplexing  :  and  the  idea  of  God  forgiving 
any  sinner  in  this  world,  without  even  taking  anything  from  him — this  is  the  most 
incredible  of  all.  But,  praise  the  Lord  !  it  is  true.  Salvation  is  free  and  without 
cost. 

About  100  yards  in  front  of  my  preaching-stand  a  Mohammedan  declaims 
against  Christ  and  against  me,  and  the  natives  like  to  hear  him  very  much. 

On  several  occasions  I  have  to  begin  with  a  very  small  audience,  but  at  the 
close  I  am  always  surrounded  by  hundreds. 

Besides  this  anti-Christian  preacher,  there  are  several  spies  kept  by  Parsees, 
who  come  every  evening  to  see  the  people  who  come  to  hear  me,  and  after  finding 
out  their  names  and  residences,  they  go  and  privately  inform  their  parents  and 
friends. 


200  A  Zulus  Autobiography. 

MAQUBA  SITW ANA'S  STORY. 

English  Christians  are  from  infancy  so  imbued  with  truth,  and 
habits  of  refinement  have  so  become  to  them  second  nature,  that  it 
is  difficult  to  them  to  realize  or  imagine  the  thoughts  and  feelings 
produced  in  the  mind  and  heart  of  a  savage  young  heathen  by  his 
first  contact  with  civilization  and  Christianity.  One  of  our  Kaffir 
students  used,  when  once  he  had  acquired  sufficient  English  for  the 
purpose,  to  describe  these  so  simply  and  graphically,  and  withal  so 
eloquently  and  pathetically,  though  his  language  was  broken  and  his 
vocabulary  very  limited,  that  we  have  seen  audiences,  both  small  and 
large,  and  of  both  educated  and  uneducated  people,  listen  spellbound 
for  hours  to  his  vivid  autobiographical  sketches. 

We  wish  now  that  we  had  made  some  notes  of  these  at  the  time, 
but  perhaps  if  we  had  they  would  have  failed,  almost  equally  with 
our  own  recollections,  to  give  a  fair  idea  of  the  original ;  for  that 
was  always  interspersed  with  illustrative  action,  which  told  more  than 
words,  and  which  sometimes  transported  one  irresistibly  in  imagi- 
nation to  the  low  Kaffir  kraal  and  its  domestic  customs,  to  the 
exciting  scenes  of  Kaffir  chase  or  warfare,  or  to  the  degrading  cere- 
monies of  Kaffir  worship. 

It  was  astonishing  to  observe  how  the  enacting  of  these  long 
familiar  scenes  seemed  to  change  the  decorous  and  almost  gentle- 
manly young  man, — for  Charlie  acquired  with  singular  facility  .the 
ease  of  manners  and  the  politeness  of  deportment  of  a  real  gentle- 
man— back  again,  in  a  moment,  into  the  wild  and  ferocious  young 
savage.  The  almost  supernatural  variety  of  unearthly  noises  he  was 
capable  of  producing,  in  moments  of  intense  excitement,  gave  the 
impression  that  a  score  of  savages,  instead  of  one,  were  shouting  and 
yelling  simultaneously  in  the  room,  while  the  sudden  and  peculiar 
leaps  of  kangaroo-like  length,  which  he  was  capable  of  unexpectedly 
making,  strengthened  the  impression,  for  he  seemed  to  be  in  two  or 
three  places  at  a  time.  Yet  he  never  failed  to  explain  that  he  really 
could  not  do  these  things  in  true  style,  on  account  of  his  clothes, 
"  too  heavy  !  too  hot ! "  It  needed  a  man  to  be  nicely  greased  up 
to  the  shining  point,  and  clad  solely  in  red  tattoo,  to  do  them 
properly  !  And  then  he  would  apologize  for  the  poor  impression 
conveyed  of  the  reality,  saying  :  "  One  man  nothing  !  you  should  see 
plenty  plenty  Kaffir  men,  more  than  a  thousand,  all  do  it,  exactly 
same  time,  and  then  /"     Imagination  was  left  to  call  up  the  scene,  but 


"  If  my  Nose  will  excuse  meV  201 

most  of  his  auditors  probably  felt  it  was  exciting  enough  to  see  a 
solo  rehearsal,- and  had  no  desire  to  witness  the  real  performance. 

Afterwards  turning  from  the  gay  to  the  grave,  Charlie  would  wipe 
his  brow,  and,  transformed  in  a  moment  from  the  young  savage 
describing  his  people  to  the  young  Christian  pleading  for  them, 
he  would,  in  earnest  and  tender  tones,  urge  the  claims  which  their 
utter  ignorance  gives  them  on  the  sympathy  and  help  of  the  English. 
"  They  don't  know  !  They  know  nothing  !  They  don't  know  about 
God,  about  Jesus,  about  Bethlehem,  about  Calvary,  about  'God  so 
loved  the  world,'  about  sin  ;  don't  know  what  is  sin,  think  sin  very 
good,  very  best ;  don't  know  about  love,  about  kindness,  only  about 
war  and  fighting ;  don't  know  how  to  do  anything,  or  to  read  or 
write ;  don't  know  at  all ;  like  animals  !  And  you  !  "  And  then 
he  would  dilate  on  what  we  know,  in  a  way  that  showed  that,  in- 
finitesimally  small  as  was  his  conception  of  the  white  man's  real 
attainments,  yet  that  knowledge  seemed  to  him  the  principal  thing, 
precious  beyond  any  of  the  precious  treasures  and  numerous  advan- 
tages possessed  by  England.  He  seemed  strongly  of  Solomon's 
opinion,  "  Happy  is  the  man  that  findeth  wisdom,  and  the  man  that 
getteth  understanding,"  for  his  thirst  for  knowledge  was  remarkable. 

But  we  must  try  to  reproduce  from  memory  one  of  his  amusing 
and  animated  addresses.  There  was  a  naivefe  about  them  that 
sometimes  made  the  temptation  to  laugh  irresistible,  and  happily  he 
never  seemed  pained  at  being  laughed  at.  On  one  occasion  in 
Birmingham  he  was  suffering  from  a  cold,  and  had  a  painful  little 
swelling  on  one  side  of  his  nose.  After  we  had  briefly  introduced 
him  to  a  drawing-room  meeting  and  given  a  few  particulars  of  his 
country  and  tribe,  he  rose  and  began  by  saying :  "  Dear  friends,  I 
wish  to  speak  to  you  about  my  people  to-night,  but  my  nose  is  very 
ill !  I  do  not  know  if  I  can,  but  I  will  try,  if  my  nose  will  excuse 
me  ! "  But  in  general  he  conformed  remarkably  well  to  the  usages 
of  society,  and  seemed  quite  at  his  ease  in  any  company.  On  taking 
him  to  tea  one  evening  with  some  friends  who  are  blessed  with  a 
family  of  eleven  young  daughters,  Charlie  gazed  on  the  group  of 
girls  with  unfeigned  admiration,  and  then  turning  to  their  father 
said,  "  You  would  be  very  rich  man,  oh  !  very,  very  rich  in  my 
country."  "How  so?"  " Such  plenty  nice  daughters  !  Each  one 
bring  you  so  many  cows.  Some  man  want  a  wife ;  he  come  and  ask 
for  one  of  your  girls  :  you  say,  '  Yes !  for  ten  cows,  twenty  cows — 
very  clever  girl,  fifty  cows?     That  man  give  you  so  many  cows  you 


202  Strange   White  Animals  ! 

want  for  your  daughter,  and  with  all  these  daughters,  you  very,  very 
rich  ! "  "  Ah  !  but  in  our  country  we  have  to  give  our  daughters, 
and  give  money  too  if  we  can  ! "  With  extreme  astonishment 
Charlie  took  in  this  fact.  "  Give  wife  and  money !  Well,  well  ! 
you  are  very,  very  kind  !  too  kind  !  much  too  kind  !  In  Africa,  no 
cow,  no  wife  !  " 

In  public  address  he  needed  a  little  prompting  now  and  then,  to 
recall  to  him  the  subjects  on  which  he  wished  to  speak.  He  kept 
mostly  to  the  autobiographical  style,  somewhat  as  follows  : 

When  I  was  a  boy  in  Africa  my  father  sent  me  to  keep  sheep.  In  Africa 
men  don't  work  at  all,  women  work,  but  men  dress  their  hair  and  fight  and  talk  : 
boys  keep  cattle,  not  in  little  fields  like  yours,  with  gates  and  hedges  and  walls,  in 
wide  big  open  places  where  lion  may  come,  or  leopard  to  catch  them  ;  the  boys 
watch,  and  if  lion  come,  make  a  great  noise,  great  great  noise,  frighten  him  away. 
One  day  some  boys  tell  my  brother  and  me  they  been  to  Durban  {i.e.  Natal), 
and  seen  many,  many  wonderful  things,  big  houses  and  ships,  and  looking-glasses, 
and  most  wonderful  things,  and  white  animals  like  men  and  women,  and  they 
make  strange  noises  nobody  could  understand,  like  this.  (Here  he  would 
imitate  the  sounds  of  the  English  language  as  it  struck  the  Kaffir  ear  on  first 
hearing  it  ;  making  everybody  laugh  at  the  rapid,  sharp,  fine,  bird-like  chattering 
sounds,  which  certainly,  in  comparison  to  the  long,  sonorous  Kaffir  tones,  seemed 
more  like  animal  noises  than  human  speech.) 

This  make  Ujojo  and  me  think  we  must  go  and  see  these  white  animals,  and 
these  wonderful  things,  and  we  ask  our  father  to  please  to  let  us  go  to  Durban 
and  come  back  again,  and  he  say,  Yes,  for  three  months.  That's  three  or  four 
years  ago  now,  and  we  never  go  back  yet ;  but  we  want  to  go  and  tell  our  father, 
and  our  king,  and  all  our  people,  about  all  things  we  have  learnt.  We  leave  our 
country  and  walk  long  way  quite  naked,  but  when  we  come  near  Durban  some 
Kaffir  man  tell  us,  "  must  not  go  on  quite  naked ;  white  animal  don't  like  it  ! 
must  get  clothes. " 

Oh  dear,  oh  dear  !  what  must  we  do?  we  got  no  clothes,  we  don't  know  about 
clothes,  what  they  for,  where  they  can  be  got ;  so  we  stop  and  work,  for  get 
some  ;  men  give  us  money,  some  big  brown,  some  little  white  in  his  hand,  we  like 
big  penny  best,  and  take  it  always,  till  some  Africa  man  say  to  us, — no  !  little 
white  shilling  the  biggest  money  !  Then  we  get  some  clothes,  trousers  and  boots, 
and  put  them  on  to  walk  on  to  Durban.  But,  oh  dear  !  oh  dear  !  what  must  we 
do  ?  so  tight  !  can't  walk  !  so  very  tight  !  hurt  our  foot,  feel  as  if  tied  up  ;  must 
take  them  off.  Man  say  no,  must  keep  them  on,  else  white  animal  put  in  prison. 
We  not  know  what  prison  mean,  but  very  much  afraid  if  white  animal  angry  with 
us  :  so  keep  clothes  on,  and  soon  could  walk  and  work  too  in  them. 

Then  we  come  to  Durban.  Very  much  surprise  !  Look  at  everybody,  and 
at  everything.  All  white  animals  got  clothes,  much  clothes,  and  houses,  big  big 
houses,  with  walls  upright,  and  doors  so  very  high  !  Kaffir  house  door  so  low  as 
chair  here  (then  going  down  on  all  fours  he  would  show  how  they  creep  into  the 
Kaffir  huts),  and  inside  all  dark,  no  window,  no  fireplace,  fire  on  floor,  no  chimney, 
house  full  of  smoke,  make  eyes  water,  very  sore,  no  chair,  no  table,  just^sit  on 
floor  in  smoke  and  dark. 


"  Africa  man  no  Think  about  God."  203 

Durban  houses  beautiful,  like  yours,  and  we  saw  books  and  looking-glasses  ; 
these  make  us  laugh  very  much — like  water.  When  Kaffir  man  do  his  hair  very 
well,  he  go  look  in  water  and  see  how  grand  he  look — but  never  could  think  how 
to  make  looking-glass  !  In  Durban  everybody  work,  white  man  work,  and  white 
woman  do  her  hair  and  talk  !  We  think  that  bad  way,  not  to  make  woman  work  ; 
but  now  I  know  that  is  proper,  because  man  is  strong,  and  woman  is  weaker  and 
got  babies  to  mind.  But  Kaffir  woman  very  strong,  must  put  baby  on  back  and 
work  all  same,  make  crops  grow,  and  grind  corn,  and  dig  and  build  house  ;  and 
when  she  get  weak  and  very  old  and  no  use,  Kaffir  man  say,  this  one  no  use  now, 
must  push  her  over,  and  then  they  take  her  to  steep  place  on  top  of  hill  and  push 
her  down,  because  no  use,  can't  do  anything.  Now  I  know  that  very  cruel  and 
wicked,  and  I  want  to  go  back  and  tell  my  people  ;  and  they  shan't  push  my  old 
grandmother  over,  I  hope.  She  love  me  and  my  brother,  and  we  want  to  go 
soon,  to  save  her  from  being  pushed  over,  and  tell  her  about  Jesus. 

After  working  in  a  stable  at  Natal  for  some  time,  the  brothers 
thought  they  knew  enough  about  horses,  and  wished  to  go  to  sea, 
for  they  had  become  imbued  with  a  desire  to  go  to  the  white  man's 
own  country,  to  England,  and  learn  many  things.  They  had 
originally  the  impression  that  the  white  animals  came  out  of  the  sea, 
but  by  degrees  they  understood  that  they  came  over  the  sea  only, 
and  that  the  land  from  which  they  came  was  more  marvellous  even 
than  Durban  itself.  So  they  made  their  way  to  a  vessel,  and  were 
guided  by  a  kind  providence  to  one  commanded  by  a  good  captain, 
and  which  had  a  German  missionary  on  board.  This  faithful  man 
took  a  loving  interest  in  the  poor  heathen  lads,  and  began  at  once 
to  give  them  some  instruction.  He  furnished  them  with  Kaffir 
Testaments,  and  began  to  teach  them  to  read. 

At  first  it  struck  them  as  an  absurd  and  stupid  process  altogether ; 
but  when  they  got  a  notion  of  the  result  attainable,  their  ardour 
knew  no  bounds.  To  learn  became  the  dearest  wish  of  their  heart ; 
and  they  were  soon  able  to  make  out  their  Testaments.  From  the 
first  their  hearts  seem  to  have  been  attracted  by  the  idea  of  a  God 
of  love,  and  of  a  human  Divine  Saviour.  "  Oh,  my  dear  friends," 
Charlie  would  say,  "  you  know  about  God,  and  I  know  now  !  He 
is  kind,  He  does  not  want  to  hurt  us ;  He  is  very,  very  good ;  He 
loves  us.  Africa  man  no  think  about  God  at  all ;  he  pray  to  ser- 
pent, but  sometime  when  it  thunder  very  loud,  up  in  sky,  then  he 
frightened,  and  he  say,  Ah  !  now  God  up  there !  God  ?  He  very 
wicked  man !  He  want  to  kill  us  all.  But  he  no  pray  to  Him  even 
then  ;  he  do  so  "  (imitating  the  strange,  fierce,  defiant,  horrid  noises 
and  gestures  directed  by  these  poor  heathen  against  the  mighty 
Thunderer,  of  whom  they  have  no  other  cojiception  than  of  a  malicious 


204  Zulu  Code  of  Morality. 

enemy).  "  Africa  man  not  like  God  ;  he  pray  very  much  to  serpent 
to  help  him  stop  the  thunder,  or  make  him  well,  or  keep  his  father 
or  his  child  from  dying."  And  then  he  would  intone  a  strange, 
weird,  monotonous  chant,  whose  tones  were  full  of  the  most  abject 
supplication,  and  the  gestures  accompanying  which  were  intensely 
expressive  of  real  fear  and  humble  worship,  the  address  or  prayer 
to  the  serpent,  which  is  poor  Africa's  only  god  !  One  felt  inclined 
to  weep  at  the  thought  of  myriads  of  fine,  intelligent  men  thus 
deluded  by  the  devil  into  defiance  and  distrust  of  the  great  and 
good  God,  and  into  real,  slavish  terror  and  veneration  of  a  vile 
reptile  ! 

The  German  missionary's  instruction  roused  in  these  poor  Kaffir 
lads  a  thirst  after  the  knowledge  of  the  true  God,  which  was  remark- 
able from  its  strength  and  intensity.  When  the  ship  reached  Aden, 
they  resolved  to  go  ashore  to  try  to  find  a  school,  though  they  had 
promised  to  help  work  the  vessel  to  London,  for  their  moral  sense 
was  at  this  time  by  no  means  sufficiently  developed  to  recognise  the 
evil  of  breaking  a  promise  or  telling  a  lie.  Indeed  Charlie's  ex- 
planations of  the  Kaffir  code  of  morality  made  one  feel  how  difficult 
it  must  have  been  for  true  ideas  of  sin  and  righteousness  to  penetrate 
their  minds.  "  Kaffir  man  think  it  quite  right  to  kill  if  another  man 
do  you  harm,  quite  right  to  steal  if  you  want  something  another  man 
got,  quite  right  tell  lies  if  it  come  bad  to  tell  truth,  quite,  quite  right ! 
He  never  shamed,  never  sorry,  never  feel  bad  for  all  such  things, 
if  ?wbody  know.  Only  if  found  out,  ah  !  then  he  done  very  wrong, 
very  wrong  to  be  so  unclever  as  to  be  found  out ;  then  he  shamed 
and  very  sorry  because  he  didn't  kill  or  steal  cleverly  and  well ;  but 
if  nobody  find  out,  then  he  all  right  !  " 

Providentially,  the  lads,  suspected  as  deserters,  were  taken  up  in 
Aden  and  put  in  prison,  and  subsequently  returned  to  their  ship. 
The  captain,  of  whose  wrath  they  were  greatly  afraid,  received  them, 
to  their  surprise,  kindly,  explained  to  them  their  folly  in  hoping  to 
find  a  school  in  Aden,  and  their  duty  to  be  good  boys  and  keep 
their  promises.  They  loved  him  in  consequence  of  this  forbearance, 
and  seem  to  have  done  all  they  could  to  try  and  please  him.  On 
reaching  England  however  they  were  quite  resolved  not  to  return 
with  the  ship,  but  to  stay  and  find  a  school. 

Must  learn  something,  must  learn  about  Jesus  more ;  German  missionary 
gone,  we  know  nothing,  we  cannot  tell  our  people  enough  about  God  :  must  find 
a  school.     We  told  captain;  he  say  "No  !  you  be  lost  in  London)  better  come 


King  Coffee  and  his  Elephant.  205 

hack  !  "  We  say,  "  No  !  God  take  care  of  us,  we  must  go  to  school."  He  say, 
"School  not  for  you,  school  want  money,  better  come  hack."  We  say,  "Must 
work  for  money,  but  must  find  school."  So  at  last  captain  he  bring  us  on  shore, 
find  lodging,  and  tell  man  we  got  £4  each  and  must  take  care  of  it,  and  then  he 
say  good-bye. 

Then  we  go  out  sec  London  :  oh,  so  very,  very  big,  such  a  noise  !  so  many 
men  and  horses  and  trams,  we  much  frightened.  We  ask  many  people,  Please, 
sir,  s/iOiO  us  a  school,  but  nobody  show.  Some  people  laugh,  some  talk,  and  we 
can't  understand,  and  many  clays  we  asked  and  find  nothing.  Then  man  at 
lodging  say  one  day  he  found  work  for  me,  I  must  give  him  my  money  to  take 
care  of  it,  and  he  show  me  work.  So  I  gave  him  all  my  money,  and  he  took  me 
one  clay,  away  from  my  brother,  far  away  over  London  Bridge,  and  bring  me  to 
Sanger's  Circus.  After  I  left  my  brother  George  one  or  two  streets,  I  very,  very 
sorry  ;  knew  I  could  never  find  him  again  !  I  wanted  to  cry,  man  would  not  take 
me  back.  Couldn't  find  the  street  where  George  was,  any  more  than  my  country, 
London  so  big,  such  lots  of  streets  and  people  !  Oh,  I  was  very  sad  in  my  heart, 
very,  very  sad.  Sanger's  people  made  me  "King  Coffee,"  made  me  ride  an 
elephant  in  grand  red  gown  with  feathers  in  head,  made  me  take  care  of  elephants. 
In  Africa  we  see  plenty  elephant,  but  not  come  near  him  !  not  catch  him  !  oh  ! 
no,  no  !  Very  much  afraid  of  elephants.  But  now  every  day  must  ride  him  and 
show  people,  and  hear  music,  and  be  with  wicked  men,  and  people  laugh  at  me. 
My  heart  very  sad,  very  sorry  !  No  George,  no  school,  no  book,  no  learn  about 
God  !  I  could  only  pray  ;  every  day  I  did  pray  to  God,  O  God  bring  me  back 
to  George,  and  teach  us,  and  take  us  back  to  our  father  and  our  people. 

It  was  indeed  a  cruel  deception  that  had  been  practised  on  the 
young  man,  to  part  him  thus  from  the  brother,  to  whom  he  clung 
with  intense  affection,  and  place  him  in  the  midst  of  the  ungodly 
scenes  of  a  travelling  circus.  But  he  was  helpless,  and  for  more 
than  a  year  he  wandered  over  England  with  this  menagerie,  forming, 
as  King  Coffee,  mounted  on  his  elephant,  one  of  its  most  attractive 
features. 

But  the  cry  of  the  poor  Kaffir,  whose  whole  soul  was  athirst  for 
the  knowledge  of  God,  was  not  despised  or  forgotten.  During  the 
interval  George,  the  elder  of  the  two,  had  by  a  series  of  providential 
incidents,  which  we  have  not  space  to  relate^  been  led  to  our  Mission 
Institute  at  Harley  House,  where  he  made  marked  and  rapid  pro- 
gress in  the  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  proved  himself  by  his 
conduct  a  most  humble,  earnest,  and  consistent  Christian.  Charlie 
was,  by  the  same  kind  Providence,  kept  in  the  most  remarkable  way 
from  the  contamination  and  injury  which  might  have  been  expected 
to  result  from  the  strangely  exposed  life  he  was  leading  and  the 
associations  into  which  he  was  thrown.  One  element  of  safety  lay 
in  the  fact  that  he  never  was  persuaded  to  touch  drink,  of  which 
indeed  he  seemed  to  have  a  kind  of  natural  horror.     He  shrank 

o 


206  Where  zs  my  Brother  gone  ? 

from  the  company  of  his  mates,  never  shared  in  their  revels,  and 
preferred  the  society  of  his  elephant.  The  men  do  not  seem  to 
have  been  kind  to  him,  and  he  was  lonely  and  desolate. 

At  last  the  circus  returned  to  London,  and  Charlie's  resolution 
was  soon  taken.  He  would  leave  it,  and  trust  God  to  guide  his 
footsteps  through  the  perplexing  maze  of  London  streets  to  his 
brother  !  and  if  he  could  not  find  him,  if  he  was  gone  back  to  Africa, 
he  would  try  to  follow.  So  he  took  his  leave  of  lion  and  tiger  and 
elephant,  and  laid  aside  without  regret  King  Coffee's  robes  and 
feathers,  and  set  out  on  his  apparently  hopeless  search.  He  had 
command  of  a  little  more  English  now,  so  he  did  not  feel  quite  so 
helpless.  By  following  the  river  he  soon  found  his  way  to  the  street 
where  he  had  left  his  brother,  which  he  was  overjoyed  to  recognise, 
but  he  could  hear  no  tidings  either  there  or  elsewhere  of  George. 
After  days  of  asking,  "  Do  you  know  where  is  my  brother  Utjebaz 
Ujojo  ? "  and  getting  a  variety  of  negative  replies,  he  began  to 
despair.  Tired  and  sick  at  heart,  he  turned  one  evening  into  a 
sailors'  Bethel  chapel,  where  on  first  landing  he  and  George  had 
gone  and  listened  with  delight,  though  they  understood  little  but 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  missionary  conducting  the  service 
recognised  him,  and  when  after  the  service  Charlie  anxiously 
addressed  to  him  his  usual  question,  he  at  once  replied  :  "  Yes,  to 
be  sure  I  can  !  George  has  gone  to  learn  to  be  a  missionary  to  his 
people  ;  he  is  at  Harley  House,  in  the  Bow  Road,  not  very  far  from 
here." 

Then  I  was  very,  very  glad  !  I  feel  my  heart  hot,  and  jump  up  !  then  I 
begin  to  cry,  and  to  thank  God  !  then  I  say,  My  brother  Ujojo  not  gone  back  !  he 
gone  to  school  at  last  !  I  shall  see  him.  I  was  too  happy,  too  glad  !  I  say  to 
minister,  Tlease  take  me  to  Harley  House,  but  he  write  name  down  on  piece  of 
paper,  and  I  got  out — I  find  a  boy  and  say,  "  Do  you  know  this  place  ?  "  "  Yes, 
I  know,  it's  a  big  house  ;  where  there's  a  lot  of  young  men  !  "  "  Yes,  my  brother 
Ujojo  is  there,  you  take  me  there  very  quick.  I  want  to  run."  At  last  we  come 
to  Harley  House — I  ask  for  my  brother.  He  not  there,  he  at  Burdett  Road 
(then  one  of  our  dormitories)  j  we  go  there  ;  as  we  go  down  Burdett  Road,  I 
see  George  coming  !  I  call  Ujojo  !  and  I  run,  and  he  run,  and  we  kiss  and  laugh 
and  cry,  and  thank  God  ! 

We  well  remember  the  day  when  George — quiet,  gentle,  Christian 
George — came  with  a  countenance  full  of  emotion  to  tell  us  he  had 
found  his  brother.  Struck  with  the  young  man's  earnest  wish  to 
learn,  we  received  Charlie  into  the  Institution,  not  as  a  student,  for 
we  did  not  know  him  then  to  be  even  converted,  but  as  a  servant. 


An  Egyptian  Lad's  Story.  207 

He  was  with  us  about  two  years,  and  won  all  hearts  both  in  London 
and  at  Cliff.  The  grace  of  God  was  very  apparent  in  him,  and  his 
one  burning  desire  was  to  become  a  missionary.  His  great  delight 
when  he  first  got  a  proper  long  black  coat  was  amusing.  He  buttoned 
it  and  stroked  it  and  said — his  black  face  glowing  with  joy — "  Now 
I  real  missionary  !  "  We  explained  that  the  distinctive  characteristic 
of  missionary  lay  in  the  heart  rather  than  the  coat,  and  he  quite 
understood  that,  but  he  added,  "Love  of  God  inside,  and  black  coat, 
then  that  real  missionary  !  " 

Poor  Charlie  ;  he  and  George  are  gone  back  to  their  country  now, 
for  their  lungs  began  to  suffer,  as  is  generally  the  case  with  Kaffirs 
after  a  year  or  two  of  our  climate,  and  we  thought  they  would 
improve  more  rapidly  at  the  excellent  Kaffir  school  at  Lovedale, 
conducted  by  the  missionaries  of  the  Free  Church  of  Scotland. 

ALLS   ADVENTURES. 

Ali  Hissein  is  a  young  Egyptian,  a  convert  from  Mohamme- 
danism, who  spent  two  years  with  us  in  the  Institute. 

Instead  of  giving  his  story  in  our  own  words,  it  will  probably 
interest  our  readers  if  we  clothe  it,  or  part  of  it,  in  his  simple, 
graphic,  though  broken  English,  pretty  much  as  he  gave  it  himself 
at  the  farewell  meeting,  at  which  he  was  commended  to  God,  on 
leaving  England. 

We  should  premise  that  Ali  is,  like  Zacchreus,  a  man  of  small 
stature,  but  neat  and  presentable  in  appearance,  very  black  in  com- 
plexion, and  very  Egyptian  in  physiognomy.  He  speaks  English 
now  fairly  well  as  to  fluency  and  pronunciation,  though  his  idioms 
are  sometimes  peculiar,  and  he  is  more  at  home  in  French.  On 
the  occasion  to  which  we  allude,  Ali  spoke  somewhat  as  follows  : 

"  My  dear  friends,  I'm  very  glad  to  go  and  be  missionary  to  my 
people.  It  is  very  strange  thing  how  kind  and  good  God  has  been 
to  me  j  I  must  tell  you  little  about  it.  My  own  old  home  is  in 
country  town,  on  Nile  River,  ten  days  from  Cairo.  My  father, 
Mohammedan  of  course,  had  land  and  carriages ;  he  go  to  Cairo 
sometimes,  to  hire  his  carriages  to  make  people  go  and  see  pyramids 
and  mosques  and  places.  My  mother — ah !  my  mother  very  kind 
and  good  to  me  !  If  no  one  will  receive  me  when  I  go  back  my 
mother  will.  My  grandmother  and  great-grandmother.  I  remember, 
lived  with  us ;  very  old  !   perhaps   dead  now ;  I   don't  know  !     I 


208  The  Blind  leading  the  Blind. 

stayed  there  at  Etfoo  till  si\:  years  old  ;  then  my  father  took  me  and 
my  elder  brother  to  Cairo,  and  I  saw,  for  the  first  time,  white  people, 
and  trains,  and  carriages,  and  hotels  !  Oh,  how  very  grand  Shep- 
herd's Hotel,  Cairo,  seemed  to  be  !  We  stayed  in  Cairo  ;  my  father 
made  my  elder  brother  to  be  coachman,  and  I  must  stay  to  help 
him.  That  was  my  business  for  a  few  years.  Then  I  went  to  see 
relation  at  Suez,  when  they  were  making  the  canal,  for  a  year,  and 
saw  the  big,  big  ships,  and  the  salt  water,  and  the  wide  sea.  Very 
strange  indeed  !  not  like  Nile  !    Never  thought  such  place  could  be  ! 

"  Then  my  father  made  carriage  business  in  Alexandria  too,  and 
I  went  there  for  a  time,  but  after  went  back  to  Etfoo.  For  a  few 
years  worked  in  the  fields,  to  frighten  birds  away.  I  went  to  school 
a  little  while,  but  didn't  like  it,  teachers  so  cruel  and  wicked. 
Teachers  in  Egypt  often  blind  men ;  mine  was  !  beat  little  boys 
very  much  on  head,  and  bastinado  feet,  and  teach  nothing.  Our 
school  was  just  round  hut;  sand  floor;  no  seats;  boys  sit  cross- 
legged  on  the  floor,  looking  at  wall ;  teacher  stand  with  stick  in  the 
middle,  saying  some  verses  from  the  koran ;  boys  say  it  after,  very 
loud,  all  together,  but  don't  know  what  it  means ;  no,  not  at  all ; 
then  say  alphabet,  and  learn  to  read  a  very  little,  but  don't  under- 
stand anything  at  all.  No  history ;  no  geography ;  didn't  know 
where  Nile  came  from,  nor  where  it  went  to ;  never  even  thought. 
Very  stupid  and  ignorant ;  teacher  no  better.  Thought  Mohammed 
great  prophet,  but  really  very  much  idolater  all  same  time. 

"  If  you  get  sick  in  Egypt  they  don't  know  what  to  do.  Doctor 
come  and  burn  your  neck  with  red-hot  iron.  See  here,  these  marks 
in  my  face.  I  was  cut  all  over  like  that  when  boy  because  my  eyes 
were  sore.  And  once  when  I  had  bad  pain  in  my  stomach,  doctor 
burn  it  with  hot  iron  very  bad  ;  marks  there  now.  I  am  going  now 
to  Beyrout  to  learn  to  be  doctor  for  my  people — not  to  cut  them 
and  burn  them  like  this.  Poor  Egypt,  people  very  dark,  very 
ignorant. 

"  After  little  time  I  went  back  to  Cairo  to  my  brother,  and  took 
carriage,  and  went  round  with  visitors ;  took  them  to  pyramids,  but 
didn't  know  what  they  were.  Wondered  often.  Didn't  know  about 
Pharaoh  and  history  of  my  nation  at  all,  only  saw  things.  My 
friends  all  like  me ;  couldn't  tell  me  anything  ;  but  I  wanted  to  know 
very  much. 

"  Well,  one  day,  when  my  work  was  all  done,  went  with  friends 
to  mosque  to  talk  and  make  pleasure,  smoking  and  buying  sweets. 


"  /  did  Want  to  Know  about  Everything."  209 

I  was  thirteen  then ;  it  was  most  beautiful  night ;  we  were  very 
happy  and  glad ;  but,  suddenly,  we  heard  great  voice  saying,  '  Boys, 
boys,  listen.  Who  would  like  to  go  to  Europe  ? '  Voice  spoke  in 
Arabic,  but  all  same  I  knew  it  was  a  foreigner.  The  boys  ran  away 
quick;  they  wouldn't  have  anything  to  do  with  European.  Of  course, 
you  know,  we  must  take  them  to  pyramids  and  so  on — for  money. 
But  we  don't  like  them.  We  wouldn't  eat  food  with  them.  We 
know  they're  '  infidels,' bad.  Must  not  be  friends  with  them.  So 
all  scamper  off.  But  I  stopped,  and  I  think  it  was  God  made  me 
do  it.  I  said,  '  I  will  go.'  So  gentleman  said,  '  Very  well,  good 
boy.  Late  to-night ;  come  and  see  my  house,  and  then  come  to 
me  to-morrow.'  So  I  went  and  saw  where  he  stayed  and  left  him. 
I  was  very  glad,  and  ran  and  told  my  friends,  '  Good-bye,  I'm  going 
to  Europe.'  Next,  day,  six  o'clock,  went  to  gentleman's  house,  but 
knock,  knock,  no  !  asleep.  Went  again  at  seven,  and  look  in,  but 
still  asleep.     Went  again  at  eight ;  he  was  awake  then. 

(We  should  observe  that  this  gentleman  was  a  M.  Levanchy,  who 
had  conceived  the  good  idea  of  taking  one  of  these  bright  boys  of 
Cairo,  and  educating  and  training  him  in  the  hope  he  might  be 
converted  and  become  a  missionary  to  his  people.) 

"  He  speak  only  very  bad  Arabic,  but  all  same  I  understood,  be- 
cause he  showed  me  money,  and  said  pay  me  to  go.  But  I  didn't 
want  to  be  servant.  So  he  said,  '  Father  ?  mother  ?  '  I  said,  '  Far 
away  at  home,  but  my  brother  and  my  cousin  in  Cairo.'  '  That'll 
do.'  So  my  brother  come  with  us  to  consul,  but  he  didn't  give  us 
passport ;  said  we  must  go  to  Alexandria.  The  consul  there  make 
agreement.  My  brother  said  I  only  must  stay  one  year.  '  And 
if  he  doesn't  like  the  country,  you  must  send  him  back,  and  mustn't 
make  him  servant.'  M.  Levanchy  said,  '  No  !  I  will  put  him  to 
school'  So  we  signed  paper  and  stayed  two  nights.  My  friends 
didn't  like  it  at  all ;  they  said  to  me,  I  shall  be  most  unhappy  ! 
I  shall  never  see  the  sun ;  the  people  live  under  the  earth,  and  besides 
they  will  eat  me.  I  thought  that  not  likely,  but  I  didn't  know ; 
Egyptian  people  very,  very  ignorant !  They  imagine  the  devil  does 
very  much ;  trains  they  call  '  devil  things,'  and  steamers.  They 
didn't  want  me  to  go.  But  I  did  want  to  know  about  everything, 
and  I  wasn't  afraid.  Not  till  I  got  into  the  little  boat  at  Alexandria, 
to  go  out  to  the  steamer. 

"  Ah !  then  !    And  when  I  got  on  deck,  and  saw  my  beautiful 
country  going  back  away,  away,  I  began  to  cry.     I  saw  the  mosques 


210  Horror  at  Clouds  and  Rain. 

and  the  minarets  going  down,  lower  and  lower,  and  sinking  at  last 
on  the  horizon,  and  M.  Levanchy  got  very  sick,  and  so  I  was  left 
alone  two  days ;  no  one  to  speak  to  me.  Oh  !  I  was  so  miserable ; 
didn't  like  to  eat  with  the  people ;  asked  for  an  orange,  for  bread 
now  and  then.  At  last  my  friend  got  better,  and  come  up  and  took 
me  with  him,  but  captain  didn't  like  that,  and  said  I  was  not  fit 
to  sit  with  ladies  and  gentlemen.  That  make  me  very  angry  with 
captain  !  very  !    But  I  did  sit  with  them,  and  very  happy  too  ! 

"  Soon  one  day,  my  friend  make  me  look  through  telescope,  and 
I  saw  a  mountain.  Much,  much  bigger  than  pyramids,  and  oh  !  so 
strange  !  smoke  coming  out  of  it !  Could  not  make  it  out !  thought 
they  were  playing  me  a  trick ;  but  we  came  close  to  it,  and  passed 
it  by,  and  I  saw  it  really  was  a  smoking  mountain  !  Then  we  came 
to  Naples.  And  now  I  was  frightened,  indeed,  and  thought  it  all 
true  what  my  people  say  to  me  ;  those  people  live  under  the  earth 
or  under  something.  For  I  look  up  and  see  great  black  clouds  in 
the  sky,  dreadful !  and  there  come  pouring  down — water  !  Never, 
never  saw  such  a  thing  as  rain  in  Egypt ;  seemed  to  be  terrible ; 
would  not  go  out  in  that  rain,  my  friend  went  on  shore,  but  I  stay 
in  ship  too  much  afraid  !  Even  of  my  friend  I  was  rather  afraid  ! 
He  brought  me  back  some  nice  large  white  sweets,  and  I  said, 
'  Thank  you.'  But  I  put  them  in  my  pocket,  not  in  my  mouth,  and 
when  he  was  gone,  I  dropped  them  in  the  sea,  for  fear  they  should 
be  poison  ! 

"Then  we  came  to  Marseilles,  and  the  custom-house  officer  came 
on  board ;  my  friend  was  busy  about  boxes,  and  when  the  officer 
began  to  feel  me,  and  put  his  hand  in  my  pocket,  and  take  out  my 
tobacco  (I  did  smoke  very  much  then),  I  cry  out  in  Arabic,  that  he 
was  a  thief  and  a  bad  man,  and  made  great  noise  till  my  friend  come 
and  make  all  right.  Then  drove  to  hotel  in  Marseilles ;  first  time 
I  had  stayed  in  hotel.  Oh  !  so  high,  and  clean,  and  beautiful ; 
looking-glasses,  and  carpets,  and  lovely  chairs  and  things  !  I  felt 
so  proud!  felt  like  khedivc  !  Walked  about  in  rooms ;  felt  very 
grand  !  Presently  big,  nice  bell  sounded,  and  I  said,  '  What  is 
that?'  'Supper!'  'Supper?  What  is  that?'  So  my  friend  tell 
me,  and  say,  '  You  must  behave  very  nicely,  and  not  speak  loud,' 
and  so  on,  and  we  went  down.  We  came  into  a  very  large,  fine 
room,  and  oh  !  how  beautiful ;  long  white  table  all  full  of  flowers 
and  silvery  shining  things  ;  seemed  to  mc  like  paradise  !  M.  Le- 
vanchy asks  a  blessing ;  I  wondered    and  ask  him,    '  What  that's 


Kind  Friends  in  Switzerland.  2 1 1 

for  ? '  Presently  people  begin  to  take  forks  and  knives,  and  he  tell 
me  to  do  same.  But  I  say,  '  No  !  hands  very  clean  and  nice.' 
'  You  must.7  I  did  not  like  to  do  such  thing,  but  he  say,  '  You 
must,'  and  I  try.  To  me  they  feel  like  sticks,  very  awkward ;  fork 
prick  my  lips  when  very  hungry  and  want  to  eat ;  so  threw  them 
away,  and  people  laughed,  and  I  jumped  up  and  ran  away  upstairs. 

"  M.  Levanchy  took  me  out  in  streets ;  I  saw  wonderful  shops ; 
some  full  oi  watches  !  wanted  one  very  much;  pulled  him  to  go  in 
and  buy  ;  but  he  would  not !  He  bought  me  many  things  however, 
and  clothes.  Then  we  went  to  station  to  go  to  Cannes ;  soon  train 
go  on,  and  I  see  country  so  different  to  Egypt,  and  then  !  Ah  ! 
how  I  was  frightened  !  the  train  go  right  into  dark,  long  tunnel! 
'  Now,'  I  thought,  '  it  is  true  about  going  down  under  the  earth  ! ' 
Oh  !  how  dreadful !  noise  and  darkness,  and  going  on — on — on  ! 
But  Levanchy  said,  'Never  mind!'  and  soon  we  came  out  again 
in  daylight. 

"Then  it  began  to  hail.  'Who  is  that  throwing  stones?'  I  said, 
'  They  come  from  heaven ;  they  are  ice — hard  water.'  I  didn't 
believe  that  !  Hard  water  !  such  things  never  could  be  !  and  be- 
sides no  water  up  in  heaven,  and  nobody  to  throw  it  down  !  I  said, 
'  No,  sir,  cannot  be  true,  I'm  quite  sure  ! '  But  he  open  window, 
catch  some  in  his  hand,  put  them  in  my  hand,  and  they  melted — ■ 
stones  melted,  water  in  my  hand  !  How  I  did  wonder !  Who 
fabricated  these  stones  ?  Must  be  some  one  up  there  to  make  them 
and  throw  them  down.     Very,  very  strange  things  ! " 

After  his  visit  to  Cannes,  Ali  was  taken  on  to  Geneva,  where  he 
was  introduced  to  M.  Dardier  and  his  children  (with  whom  he  was 
greatly  pleased),  and  then  to  M.  Necker,  the  well-known  Christian 
philanthropist,  who  became  his  friend  and  patron.  He  describes 
very  graphically  the  impression  first  made  on  him  by  this  gentleman, 
who  is  a  son  of  Anak. 

"  Such  a  big  man.  I  never  saw  such  a  man  before,  and  very 
much  afraid  of  him  at  first !     Tall,  broad,  very,  very  large ;  I  little 

fellow ;  look  up,  up  to  his  face ;  but  such  small,  gentle  voice so 

kind!     He  stooped  down  to  me,  and  kissed  me;  but  I  still  afraid. 
He  took  me  down  his  garden  into  his  smoking-room,  alone.     '  Oh  ! ' 
I  thought,  'this  is  the  man  my  people  tell  me  of;  he  will  kill  me 
eat  me  ! '     All  his  kindness  made  me  tremble.      He  gave  me   a 
cigarette,  but  I  would  not  touch  it ;  wanted  to  run  away." 

It  was  arranged  that  the  young  Egyptian  should  be  sent  to  school, 
and  he  was  confided  to  the  care  of  M.  Paros,  of  Neuchatel 


212  Coming  out  of  Egypt  Spiritually. 

"  I  had  to  go  with  the  very  little  children  and  learn  ABC.  I 
couldn't  speak  French  then,  or  German,  or  English,  only  Arabic, 
but  I  soon  got  to  read,  and  had  a  book,  French  and  Arabic.  Oh  ! 
that  school,  how  stupid  it  did  seem  to  me  at  first !  To  make  strokes 
on  slate  all  day,  and  look  at  letters  !  Could  not  think  what  was  the 
good  of  it.  All  I  liked  was  the  gymnasium.  But  when,  after  six 
months,  I  could  speak,  and  read,  ah  !  then  I  was  glad.  Then  I 
learned  about  the  Nile,  and  about  Egypt,  and  about  the  world.  At 
first  I  would  not  believe  all  they  told  me  about  maps  and  globes, 
and  even  I  got  punished  for  saying,  '  All  this  is  your  imagination.' 

"  But  most  of  all  I  learn  about  Jesus  Christ,  and  who  is  He,  and 
what  did  He  do  ?  At  first  I  would  not  believe  that  either.  '  God 
cannot  marry  and  have  a  Son,'  I  said.  There  may  not  be  two 
Gods  !  But  then  I  went  to  director,  and  he  talk  to  me,  and 
explain  many  things,  and  read  koran  to  me,  and  show  me  that  not 
true.  After  some  time  I  believe  in  my  head,  but  not  at  that  time 
in  my  heart. 

"  In  1875  I  was  fifteen  years  old,  and  then  I  began  to  feel  heavy 
in  my  heart  about  sin — felt  I  was  not  good — wanted  a  Saviour.  Mr. 
Stockmeyer  came  to  hold  some  meetings  ;  we  went.  Oh,  what  words 
he  spoke  !  They  came  into  my  heart,  '  He  that  hath  the  Son  of  God 
hath  life,  and  he  that  hath  not  the  Son  of  God  hath  not  life.'  He 
explained  all  about  sin,  and  I  felt  it  was  true ;  and  he  told  all  about 
the  great  sacrifice.  I,  and  five  other  lads,  received  the  Saviour  in 
these  blessed  meetings ;  Mr.  Stockmeyer  said,  '  Who  is  willing  now  to 
confess  their  faith  in  Christ  ?  '  We  rose  ;  he  came  and  talked  with 
us,  and  a  dear,  dear  lady,  daughter  of  M.  Paros,  who  is  gone  to 
heaven  now,  talked  to  me  too.  She  made  all  so  plain  to  me.  I 
put  on  Christ,  and  was  so  happy.  I  wrote  to  Levanchy,  and  told 
him  now  I  must  be  baptized,  and  he  came  from  Nismes,  and  Stock- 
meyer baptized  me.  Such  a  solemn  glad  meeting  it  was,  it  seemed 
to  me  heaven  almost. 

"  Now  I  had  come  out  of  Egypt,  spiritually,  too,  and  the  new  world 
to  my  soul  seemed  just  as  wonderful  and  as  different  as  Europe 
seemed  to  be  at  first.  Oh,  how  happy  I  used  to  be  in  my  long 
lonely  walks  among  the  Jura  Mountains  !  I  seemed  to  talk  to  God, 
and  He  to  my  heart.  And  in  the  moonlight,  when  the  lake  looked 
like  silver,  and  the  clear  sky  was  full  of  stars,  I  felt  so  near  heaven. 

"But  I  got  tired  of  Neuchatel,  and  wanted  to  go  to  college 
where  I  might  learn  more.     M.  Necker  said  to  M.  Dardier,  take 


Pleading  for  his  People.  213 

him  to  England.  So  I  came  here,  and  then  Mr.  Guinness  received 
me  in  his  college.  I  went  down  to  Cliff,  till  I  learned  more  English. 
Most  sweet  time  I  had  there,  among  so  many  dear  brothers  in 
Christ.  I  got  much  more  clear  knowledge  about  word  of  God  ;  in 
Switzerland  learned  to  know  God  in  my  heart,  but  here  in  England 
I  understand  much  more  about  the  faith.  I  learned  to  preach  too, 
with  my  little  English.  The  dear  people  in  the  villages  like  to  hear 
a  black  man  preach,  and  I  love  to  tell  the  good  news,  and  believe 
it  all  the  more  while  I  tell  it.  Oh,  what  happy  times  I  have  had 
walking  home  after  preaching  in  far  away  villages  !  Those  two  years 
very  good  and  profitable  to  me,  and  my  visits  to  dear  Mr.  Anstie 
in  Devizes  too  !  And,  now  I  go  to  learn  to  be  medical  missionary 
to  my  people,  and  I  want  to  say  before  I  go,  if  any  young  man 
wants  to  give  his  life  to  Christ,  and  to  suffer  for  His  sake,  let  him 
come  and  work  in  my  poor  country,  Egypt.  I  shall  be  so  glad  to  see 
him  there  !  And,  my  dear  friends,  remember  God  is  going  to  bless 
Egypt  some  day,  for  you  know  it  is  said  in  Isaiah  xix.,  'The  Lord 
shall  smite  Egypt :  He  shall  smite  and  heal  it :  and  they  shall  return 
even  to  the  Lord,  and  He  shall  be  entreated  of  them,  and  shall 
heal  them  :  .  .  .  whom  the  Lord  of  hosts  shall  bless,  saying, 
Blessed  be  Egypt  My  people,  and  Assyria  the  work  of  My  hands, 
and  Israel  Mine  inheritance.'  England  must  send  many  mission- 
aries to  Egypt  before  that  time  can  come." 

Ali  Hissein,  while  in  this  country,  made  many  friends,  as  he  had 
already  done  in  Switzerland,  by  his  affectionate  simplicity  and  sin- 
cerity. His  bright  intelligence  and  earnest  spirituality  warrant  the 
hope  that  he  will  make  a  very  useful  missionary  among  his  people. 
As  he  was  losing  his  native  knowledge  of  Arabic  by  so  long  a 
residence  abroad,  it  was  considered  better  that  he  should  pursue  his 
medical  course  in  Beyrout,  where  the  lectures  are  given  in  Arabic. 


From  time  to  time  we  have  had  with  us  Nestorians  from  the 
mountains  of  Persia,  Kurds  from  the  mountains  of  Armenia,  Persians, 
Syrians,  three  of  whom  qualified  as  medical  men,  several  Armenians, 
who  did  the  same,  and  coloured  men  from  America  and]  the  West 
Indies. 


€\p$Ux  Y. 


POUNDS,  SHILLINGS,   AND   PENCE; 

OR,    THE  r.KUW 

FINANCIAL  SUPPORT   OF  THE   WORK. 

This  work  was  begun  without  any  funds  in  hand,  or  any  promises 
of  support,  but  with  the  conviction  that  if  it  were  of  God  and  for 
His  glory,  He  would  send  the  needful  funds. 

Long  and  varied  experience  of  His  faithfulness  in  this  respect 
encouraged  us  to  trust  and  not  be  afraid,  though  we  fully  realized 
that  the  work  was  not  one  which  would  attract  popular  sympathy 
in  the  same  way  that  works  of  a  more  directly  philanthropic  nature 
do.  We  were  conscious  that  it  would  not  make  that  appeal  to  the 
philanthropic  feelings  which  is  sure  to  meet  a  ready  response  from 
the  kind-hearted  and  benevolent.  Its  purely  spiritual  nature  and 
object  would,  we  knew,  greatly  limit  the  number  of  those  who  would 
feel  any  sympathy  with  it ;  and  the  indirect  mode  at  which  it  aims  at 
spiritual  results  would,  we  expected,  limit  it  still  further.  It  seems 
to  many  more  important  to  sustain  evangelists  actually  in  the  field 
than  to  prepare  others  to  follow  them.  So  we  did  not  expect  many 
helpers,  but  we  did  expect  the  Lord  to  be  our  helper,  and  to  incline 
the  hearts  of  some  of  His  stewards  to  aid  with  their  substance.  And 
this  is  just  what  He  has  graciously  done. 

We  began  by  degrees,  furnishing  only  a  few  rooms  at  first,  not 
wishing  to  name  the  matter  to  others  till  it  was  more  than  a  project. 
Eight  young  brethren  were  received,  incurring  as  little  expense  as 
possible  for  instruction,  books,  apparatus,  etc.,  till,  as  donations 
began  to  come  in,  a  tutor  was  engaged  and  suitable  requisites  for 
study  provided.  A  good  deal  of  furniture  was  kindly  lent  at  first ; 
this  was  gradually  purchased  as  means  permitted.  At  the  close 
of  the  first  year  the  original  house  was  fully  furnished  with  all  that 
was  requisite  for  eighteen  or  twenty  inmates,  and  provided  with  the 
apparatus  needful  for  their  studies ;  and  all  was,  thank  God  !  paid  for. 

About  220  donors  kindly  sent  in  the  course  of  the  first  year 
^1,569,  in  sums  varying  from  two  shillings  to  two  hundred  pounds. 
Yet  our  faith  was  often  exercised,  and  our  cash-box  empty. 


A    Welcome  Telegram.  215 

On  one  occasion,  after  the  payment  of  some  hjavy  expenses, 
nothing  was  left  in  hand,  and  prayer  for  daily  bread  for  the  large 
household  in  Stepney  went  up  more  earnestly  than  usual ;  for  not 
only  the  current  outlay  had  to  be  met,  but  some  needful  additions 
in  prospect  required  at  least  ,£100.  The  director  had  to  leave 
London  for  a  week's  special  services  in  a  distant  city  ;  he  carried 
the  burden  with  him,  and  laid  it  daily  before  the  Lord.  Going 
down  one  evening  to  the  hall  where  he  was  to  preach,  a  telegram 
awaited  him  :  "  Good  news  !  I  have  received  ^"200  for  the  Institute  ; 
praise  the  Lord  ! "  He  did  praise  Him,  and  preached  His  faithful- 
ness all  the  more  fervently  from  this  fresh  illustration  of  it  ! 

Another  time,  when  the  exchequer  had  again  become  exhausted, 
and  there  seemed  no  probability  of  its  being  replenished  before  the 
weekly  settling  day  came  round,  a  small  sum  was  put  into  our  hands 
by  a  friend  whom  we  accidentally  met,  but  it  served  only  to  make  us 
feel,  "  We  must  ask  our  Father  for  a  larger  supply  than  this."  On 
reaching  home  that  evening  a  most  encouraging  letter  was  received 
from  a  dear  and  valued  friend,  containing  a  cheque  for  ^50,  and 
saying  : 

The  deep  need  of  some  godly  and  capable  person  to  take  charge  of  and 
prepare  young  men  for  the  work  of  God  in  this  way  has  been  on  my  heart  for 
many  years,  and  I  hail  with  real  joy  the  fact  of  your  having  been  led  to  undertake 
such  service.  You  have  our  truest  sympathy  and  prayer  ;  may  God  graciously 
stand  by  you  at  all  times,  supplying  your  need  of  every  kind  !  May  you  never 
weary  in  this  good  work,  but  be  refreshed  more  and  more  in  reaping  the  fruit  of 
your  toil  ! 

Mode  of  Raising  Funds. 

As  to  our  mode  of  raising  funds.  We  rely  mainly  on  prayer  to 
God ;  but  not  believing  that  prayer  and  effort  are  antagonistic,  we 
take  means  to  make  our  undertaking  and  its  many  requirements 
known  to  fellow  Christians  whom  we  think  likely  to  sympathise  in  it 
We  do  not  expect  God  to  do  for  us,  by  a  miracle,  that  which  we  can 
do  for  ourselves — give  information  of  the  nature  and  needs  of  our 
work ;  but  we  do  entirely  trust  Him  to  do  that  which  we  cannot 
do — open  the  hearts  of  His  people  to  sustain  it.  We  desire  the  aid 
of  believers  only,  and  we  do  not  publish  the  names  of  contributors, 
believing,  in  common  with  many  others,  such  a  course  to  be  contrary 
to  Matthew  vi.  3,  4.  Each  donor  has  a  numbered  receipt,  and  can 
thereby  identify  his  own  donation,  and  see  that  it  is  accounted  for. 


2l6  Money  Matters  a  Means  of  Grace. 

May  we  be  permitted  to  say  here,  for  the  help  of  others,  that  we 
have  proved  that  money  matters  need  not  always  be  mundane  matters 
—  worldly,  secular,  unspiritual  concerns,  whose  only  tendency  is  to 
drag  down  the  soul  by  the  cares  of  this  life?  Very  much  the 
reverse  ! 

Money  matters  may  be,  must  be,  a  means  of  grace  to  those  who 
have  no  banker  but  their  Father  in  heaven,  and  no  great  need  of 
money  but  for  their  Master's  work.  We  have  found  them  so.  Is 
money  wanted?  We  must  pray,  and  there  is  little  danger  of  formality 
or  unreality  in  prayer  when  the  payment  of  the  butcher's  and  baker's 
bills  depends  on  the  answer  coming  speedily  !  Does  money  come 
in  ?  We  must  praise ;  for  we  realize  so  vividly  His  hand  in  its 
coming  that  our  eyes  are  naturally  turned  heavenward  with  a  heart- 
felt "  thank  God  !  "  ere  we  take  pen  in  hand  to  thank  men. 

Is  any  expenditure  suggested?  We  must  seek  guidance  from 
above ;  for  while,  if  we  spend  according  to  His  will,  He  is  sure  to 
provide  the  funds,  if  we  spend  according  to  our  own  will,  we  may 
be  left  to  our  own  resources,  or  lack  of  resources,  and  suffer  accor- 
dingly !  Does  discouragement  at  times  sink  the  heart,  and  suggest 
the  inquiry,  "  Is  the  Lord  with  us  or  not  ?  "  The  account-book  is 
one  very  tangible  reply.  Long  lists  of  donations  array  themselves 
as  an  army  of  witnesses  that  "hitherto  the  Lord  hath  helped  us." 

Does  the  adversary  tempt  to  self-confidence,  carelessness,  or  vain- 
glory? An  empty  exchequer  is  a  good  drag  on  the  wheels,  an 
absence  of  any  balance  at  the  bank  a  wholesome  incentive  to  walk 
softly.  Or  is  the  purse  replenished  with  enough  and  to  spare  ?  The 
inquiry  at  once  arises,  Why  has  the  Master  sent  this  ?  How  does 
He  wish  it  laid  out  ?  Matter  of  fact,  material,  earthly,  and  temporal 
as  are  monetary  transactions,  we  hold  therefore  that  they  may  yet 
be  blessed  aids  to  a  life  of  daily  communion  with  God,  and  helps  to 
a  walk  of  childlike  dependence,  as  well  as  invaluable  indications  of 
Divine  guidance.  To  have  to  do  with  God  every  day  about  such 
practical  matters  has  a  tendency  to  strengthen  faith.  Tangible 
answers  to  definite  petitions  are  "  evidence  of  things  not  seen  " — 
links  with  the  invisible  but  ever-present  Father  of  our  spirits,  which 
make  Him  very  real  and  present.  "  He  that  cometh  to  God  "  about 
such  matters  must  believe  that  He  is — that  there  is  a  God  to  come 
to,  willing  and  able  to  help  in  daily  difficulties  and  necessities,  "  and 
that  He  is  the  Reivarder  of  those  who  diligently  seek  Him  ;  i.e.  that 
coming  to  Him  is  of  some  use,  and  will  accomplish  something 


Lacked  ye  any  tiling?     Nothing!  217 

We  do  not  find  that  God  works  miracles  in  answer  to  prayer,  or 
dispenses  with  the  operation  of  secondary  causes,  or  sets  aside  the 
ordinary  course  of  things.  But  we  do  find  that  He  so  orders 
matters,  that  such  secondary  causes  as  will  b:i  ng  about  the  accom- 
plishment of  our  desires  are  put  into  ope  ion.  It  may  be  that 
our  own  minds  are  guided  to  a  certain  course  of  action,  or  that 
coincidences  arise,  apparently  accidental,  but  which  prove  by  their 
results  to  have  been  distinctly  providential.  How  it  is  we  cannot 
explain,  but  we  delight  to  record,  to  God's  glory,  that  so  it  is,  and 
that  "it  is  better  to  trust  in  the  Lord  than  to  put  confidence  in 
princes." 

Had  we  foreseen,  on  entering  on  this  work,  that  we  should  require 
for  its  prosecution  the  very  large  sum  of  money  which  has  actually 
been  spent  on  it  during  the  past  fourteen  years,  we  should  have  felt 
that  it  was  utterly  improbable,  not  to  say  impossible,  that  such  a 
sum  could  come  into  our  hands  for  it.;  we  should  scarcely  have  dared 
to  venture  on  the  undertaking.  But  as  each  need  has  arisen  it  has 
been  met ;  and  with  a  feeling  of  gratitude,  not  unmingled  with  sur- 
prise, we  perceive,  as  we  now  look  back  over  these  years,  that  we 
have  been  enabled,  not  only  to  pay  many  thousands  of  pounds  annually 
for  the  ordinary  demands  of  the  Institution,  but  that  over  ^30,000 
more  has  been  sunk  in  building  and  furnishing  the  three  colleges,  and 
in  the  purchase  and  preparation  of  our  several  mission  halls.  We 
thankfully  record  it  to  God's  glory,  and  for  the  encouragement  of 
His  servants. 

A  few  extracts  from  our  diary  will  perhaps  give  our  friends  the  best 
idea  of  the  way  in  which  the  Lord  has  helped  us  in  the  matter  of 
supplies,  and  also  of  the  kind  and  cheering  expressions  of  sympathy 
which  have  often  doubled  the  value  of  gifts  received.  In  1876  we 
wrote  : 

"  When  I  sent  you  without  purse  and  scrip  and  shoes,  lacked  ye 
anything?"  said  the  Master  to  His  disciples  on 'one  occasion.  And 
they  said,  "Nothing." 

Were  He  to  ask  us  the  same  question,  we  must  return  the  same 
reply,  to  the  praise  of  His  grace. 

He  sent  us  without  purse  or  scrip  to  establish  and  conduct  this 
Institute  ;  we  have  had  to  spend  many,  many  thousands,  and  we 
record  this  day  to  His  glory  we  have  lacked  nothing  in  the  pro- 
secution of  our  task.  For  a  time  we  have  often  been  pressed  ; 
we  have   had   to   dispense  with   things  we    desired,  and  to  leave 


2 1 8  Fear  not !     Go  forward. 

undone  things  we  wished  to  do.  But  we  have  lacked  nothing 
essential  for  the  prosperity  of  our  work,  and  we  bless  the  God  who 
has  supplied  our  need  according  to  His  riches. 

June  1st,  1876. — Received  this  morning  a  note  from  a  dear  invalid  friend  at 
Clifton,  who,  though  personally  unknown  to  us,  is  one  of  our  most  sympathising 
helpers,  saying,  "  To-morrow  being  one  of  the  much-to-be-observed  days  in  my 
calendar,  will  you  accept,  with  my  love,  a  supply  for  one  day's  need,  ^"io?  "  The 
next  letter  we  opened  was  from  Belfast  ;  the  writer  says  :  "  I  have  confidence  in 
you  that  you  are  most  particular  in  the  selection  of  men,  that  they  should  be 
men  of  God,  men  of  great  love  to  souls— faithful,  earnest,  zealous  for  the  truth. 
Yesterday  I  intended  to  write  and  send  you  ^50 ;  but  this  morning  my  banking 
account  came  in,  and  it  shows  a  larger  balance  than  I  expected,  so  with  thankful 
pleasure  I  inclose  a  cheque  for  ,£100.  It  is  sweet  to  be  led  step  by  step,  and  we 
know  whose  are  the  silver  and  the  gold.  May  the  God  of  all  grace  be  glorified  !  " 
This  little  donation  is  peculiarly  encouraging  to  us,  because  yesterday  we  sent 
off  a  party  of  ten  to  Cliff,  with  some  fear  and  trembling  about  the  increase  of 
financial  responsibility  involved  in  beginning  housekeeping  there.  This  seems 
like  a  voice  from  the  Master,  saying,  "  Fear  not ;  go  forward." 

***** 

June  20//1. — A  friend  sending  a  small  donation  from  Ireland,  says  :  "  When  I 
read  that  your  work  requires  ^10  a  day  my  faith  quite  failed.  Why,  to  make  up 
^"50  for  altering  and  doing  up  a  place  of  worship  here  they  got  up  a  bazaar  with 
military  bands,  etc.,  and  four  concerts  and  readings.  Surely  prayer  and  faith 
honour  the  Lord  much  more." 

***** 

July  2nd.— Received  from  a  nobleman,  ^25. 

[This  donor  is  one  who  gives  not  his  substance  only,  but  his  whole  time  and 
strength,  to  the  spread  of  the  gospel  in  the  darker  regions  of  Christendom,  letting 
his  light  shine,  and  bringing  glory  to  his  Father  in  heaven.  It  is  not  often  that 
God  commits  to  one  man  a  double  stewardship  of  gold  and  of  gifts  for  gospel 
ministry.  W7hen  He  does,  double  grace  is  needed,  and  in  the  case  of  this  beloved 
donor  has  for  many  a  year  been  granted.     May  it  be  so  even  to  the  end  !] 

***** 

July  4//1. — Received  to-day  with  thanksgiving  to  God  ^50  from  a  lady  in  the 

country,  who  has  done  more  than  most  for  the  heathen,  and  who  will  be  blessed 

by  multitudes  of  Chinese  in  eternity  as  having  been  by  her  self-denying  sacrifices 

the  instrument  of  sending  the  gospel  to  their  provinces. 

***** 
July  29///. — From  a  nobleman  in  Ireland,  a  dear  aged  friend,  to  whom  we 
had  lately  sent  a  copy  of  our  last  report,  a  kind  note,  inclosing  a  cheque  for  £zo. 
He  says:  "Before  opening  yours  to-day,  I  had  purposed,  if  possible,  not  to  allow 
another  post  to  leave  without  some  little  token  of  my  practical  sympathy  both 
with  your  interesting  work  and  with  the  dear  friend  who  is  indeed  worthy  of  my 
grateful  recollection.     Please  apply  the  inclosed  according  to  your  judgment." 

***** 
Aug.   1st.     .      .      .      Abo    the    following    from   Scotland  :     "  Thank   you    very 
much  for  sending  us  your  interesting  little  book.     Upon  reading  it  aloud   last 


Vegetarians,  pro  tern .  219 

evening,  my  two  eldest  children,  eight  and  nine  years  old,  who  were  present, 
opened  their  little  savings  banks  and  begged  me  to  send  you  their  first  savings. 
These  savings  have  been  nearly  all  earned  in  various  ways  by  the  dear  children. 
I  also  send  you  half  of  a  ^"lO  note  from  Mrs.  M.  and  myself." 

***** 

Aug.  \th. — We  rejoice  to  note  how  the  hearts  of  all  are  in  the  hand  of  God  ; 
how  He  can  move  parents  and  children,  rich  and  poor,  high  and  low,  to  give,  as 
of  the  ability  which  He  giveth.  We  prize  small  gifts,  but  as  our  needs  are  great 
we  give  hearty  thanks  also  for  great  ones  !  Received  to-day  from  a  gentleman 
in  Scotland  the  following  :  "I  have  much  pleasure  in  sending  you  the  inclosed 
cheque  for  ^ioo  for  your  work.  May  the  good  Master  bless  and  prosper  it,  and 
supply  all  your  need!"  Also  the  following:  "Herewith  I  send  you  a  P.O.O. 
for^l.  I  wish  I  could  send  you  a  thousand,  but  it  is  not  in  my  power ;  others,  I 
have  no  doubt,  will.  He  that  freely  gave  His  Son  will  freely  give  all  things  need- 
ful for  His  glory.  Abraham's  faith  was  sorely  tried,  so  is  mine  ;  I  suppose  it  is 
the  lot  of  all  the  children  of  God,  and  we  each  think  our  own  trial  the  greatest. 
May  your  young  men  be  good  soldiers  !     I  desire  an  interest  in  their  prayers." 

Nov.  wth. — Received  this  afternoon  from  Surbiton  £2,  from  a  dear  invalid, 
who  says  :  "  My  heart  is  not  satisfied  with  this  small  offering,  but  it  has  pleased 
the  Lord  very  seriously  to  afflict  me  ;  for  twenty-five  years  I  have  been  confined 
to  a  couch,  or  nearly  so  ;  personal  expenses  are  consequently  unavoidably  very 
heavy,  and  my  means  are  limited.  But  I  am  thankful  to  be  permitted  to  aid  in 
any  measure  the  Institute,  in  the  prosperity  of  which  I  feel  a  deep  interest."  It 
may  be  that  this  gift,  though  small  in  our  eyes,  is  as  large  as  the  other  in  God's 
estimate,  possibly  larger.  For  if  there  be  first  a  willing  mind,  "it  is  accepted 
according  to  that  a  man  hath,  and  not  according  to  that  he  hath  not."  God 
abundantly  reward  both  these  donors,  according  to  His  riches  ! 

"  Cast  thy  bread  upon  the  waters,  and  thou  shalt  find  it  after  many  days."  We 
are  often  reminded  of  this  promise  by  donations  sent  by  those  who  take  an  interest 
in  our  work,  from  having  at  some  time  profited  under  my  dear  husband's  ministry. 
To-day  from  Bishop's  Waltham  came  a  black-edged  note,  inclosing  ^5.  "I 
beg  the  favour  of  your  acceptance  of  the  inclosed  cheque  for  your  mission  work. 
If  you  recollect  your  visit  to  Mr.  M.,  at  Yardley,  Hastings,  some  sixteen  or 
seventeen  years  ago,  you  will  recognise,  by  my  signature,  his  widow,  I  am  grieved 
to  say.  He  died  of  heart  disease  last  year.  You  preached  several  times  in  suc- 
cession at  Yardley  chapel,  as  well  as  in  the  neighbouring  town  of  Olney.  May 
the  Lord  greatly  bless  you  in  your  labours !  He  will.  None  serve  or  wait  on 
Him  in  vain." 

***** 

Dec.  5///.  —  No  funds  !  Much  tried  by  unbelieving  doubts  and  fears.  Named 
the  state  of  the  treasury  to  the  students  at  the  weekly  prayer-meeting  this  after- 
noon, which  drew  out  much  earnest  and  apparently  believing  prayer.  Resolved 
to  stop  the  butcher's  bill,  at  any  rate,  by  dispensing  with  meat ;  told  the  students 
so,  and  was  pleased  with  their  readiness  to  make  needful  sacrifices  ;  told  them 
the  director  wrote  from  Cornwall  that  he  too  was  fasting,  and  those  with  him, 
and  that  he  had  written  to  the  household  at  Cliff  to  turn  vegetarians  pro  ton. 
***** 

Dec.  'jlli. — ^5  came  in  this  morning,  but  we  need  £\0  a  clay  at  least.     Feel- 


220  Promises  Proved. 

ing  casl  down  and  tried,  I  requested  the  students  just  now,  at  morning  prayers, 
each  to  repeat  or  quote  some  Scripture  promise  calculated  to  strengthen  our  faith 
and  cheer  our  souls.  Oh,  what  a  stream  of  comfort  and  consolation  followed! 
One  manly  voice  after  another,  some  in  strongly  foreign  accents,  some  with  a  fine 
Irish  brogue,  some  with  Scotch  ruggeclness,  but  each  with  deep  feeling,  and 
apparently  with  real  faith,  uttered  some  exceeding  great  and  precious  promise, 
which,  though  familiar  as  a  household  word,  seemed  to  come  with  a  fresh  power 
that  was  wonderful.  "  Comfort  ye,  comfort  ye  My  people,  saith  your  God  !  "  "  Be 
strong  and  of  a  good  courage;  be  not  afraid,  neither  be  dismayed."  "Trust  in  the 
Lord,  and  do  good  ;  so  shalt  thou  dwell  in  the  land,  and  verily  thou  shalt  be  fed.'' 
"  There  shall  no  evil  befall  thee,  neither  shall  any  plague  come  nigh  thy  dwelling." 
"  My  God  shall  supply  all  your  need,  according  to  His  riches  in  glory  by  Christ 
Jesus."  "  The  Lord  shall  preserve  thee  from  all  evil ;  He  shall  preserve  thy  soul." 
"  Cast  thy  burden  on  the  Lord,  and  He  shall  sustain  thee;  He  shall  never  suffer 
the  righteous  to  be  moved."  "  What  man  of  you  is  there,  whom,  if  his  son  ask" 
bread,  will  he  give  him  a  stone?  "  "  My  grace  is  sufficient  for  thee ;  for  My  strength 
is  made  perfect  in  weakness."  "The  Lord  is  my  shepherd,  I  shall  not  want." 
"  The  earth  is  the  Lord's,  and  the  fulness  thereof."  "God  is  our  refuge  and 
strength,  a  very  present  help  in  trouble  ;  therefore  will  we  not  fear."  "Trust  in 
the  Lord  with  all  thine  heart,  and  lean  not  to  thine  own  understanding."  "  Ah  ! 
Lord  God,  behold,  Thou  hast  made  the  heaven  and  the  earth,  and  there  is  nothing 
too  hard  f 07-  Thee!  "  "I  am  the  Lord,  the  God  of  all  flesh  ;  is  there  anything  too 
hard  for  Me?"  "  Our  help  is  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  who  made  heaven  and 
earth."  "  Lo,  I  am  with  you  alway."  "  When  thou  passest  through  the  waters  I 
will  be  with  thee  ;  and  through  the  rivers,  they  shall  not  overflow  thee."  These 
were  among  the  passages  repeated  by  the  dear  brethren,  and  I  ended  by  quoting, 
"Heaven  and  earth  shall  pass  away,  but  My  word  shall  not  pass  away." 

It  was  easy  to  pray  after  this  !  Surely  promises  believed  are  the  best  prepara- 
tion for  prayer  !  "  Do  as  Thou  hast  said  :  the  word  that  Thou  hast  spoken  estab- 
lish it  for  ever,"  prayed  David;  "for  Thou,  O  Lord  of  hosts,  hast  revealed  to  Thy 
servant,  saying,  I  will  build  thee  a  house  :  therefore  hath  Thy  servant  found  in 
his  heart  to  pray  this  prayer  unto  Thee.  Let  it  please  Thee  to  bless  the  house  of 
Thy  servant  -.for  Thou,  O  Lord  God,  hast  spoken  it :  and  with  Thy  blessing  let  the 
house  of  Thy  servant  be  blessed  for  ever." 

Within  a  week  of  this  prayer  meeting  all  claims  were  met  and  a 
small  balance  in  hand  left  to  go  on  with. 

Dec.  20th.—  .  .  .  Also  from  a  little  girl  in  Cornwall:  "Dear  Mrs. 
G.,  I  send  you  eighteenpence,  and  I  wish  I  could  send  you  m«re ;  but  as  I  am 
only  ten  years  old,  perhaps  you  will  excuse  me.  It  is  little,  but  I  hope  it  will  do 
a  little  good." 

Dec.  30///.— How  richly  and  graciously  the  Lord  has  answered  our  prayers 
within  the  last  few  weeks  !  This  morning  came  a  letter  from  a  dear  lady  in 
Scotland,  who  is  unknown  to  us  personally,  inclosing  some  bank-notes.  I  looked 
at  them  expecting  two  fives,  or  possibly  two  tens,  but  there  were  more  than  two. 
I  counted ;  ten,  twenty,  forty,  sixty,  eighty,  a  hundred  pounds  !  And  then  I 
read :  "I  was  very  pleased  to  see  that  you  had  had  a  dismissal  service  on  the  15th  to 
commend  to  God  ten  of  the  students.     How  it  must  have  gladdened  your  hearts  ! 


Fourteen  hundred  Donations.  221 

May  lie  give  them  and  all  the  students  much  power  from  on  high  !     I  have  great 
pleasure  in  sending  the  inclosed." 

And  so  Christmas  came  laden  with  mercies,  and  we  could  gather  the  children 
of  our  schools  for  their  treat,  and  the  mothers'  meeting  for  their  "  tea,"  and  give 
the  students  a  Christmas  dinner  besides  !  One  cheque  for  ^50  reached  us  late  on 
the  evening  of  Saturday,  the  24th,  with  a  brief  line  saying,  "  Sent  in  haste,  to 
secure  your  having  a  peaceful  Sabbath  and  a  happy' Christmas."  Words  poorly 
express  the  warm  and  grateful  sense  of  loving  fellowship  in  Christ  such  acts  oj 
considerate  sympathy  evoke  !  The  Lord  bless  each  of  these  dear  helpers  of  our 
work  ! 

*  *  *  *  * 

Mar.  2nd,  1S77. — A  lady  who  lately  sent  us  a  donation  of  £$,  and  who  sub- 
sequently sent  to  our  care  a  donation  of  ^10  for  Africa,  writes  : 

"  I  think  it  may  be  interesting  to  you  to  know  that  the  donation  for  Africa 
which  I  sent  to  you  some  time  ago  was  the  last  thing  my  father  gave  before  h 
entered  into  the  presence  of  the  King,  on  Feb.  17th.  He  wished  to  give  you  a 
trifle,  and  spoke  most  strongly  of  his  approval  and  appreciation  of  your  manner  of 
carrying  out  this  work,  and  said  it  was  what  he  liked  and  wished  to  help ;  so  I 
sent  the  £$.  Then  he  twice  gave  directions  that  something  should  be  given  to 
Africa,  and  that  I  should  ask  your  advice.  I  was  never  able  to  tell  him  the  result  ! 
I  thought  you  would  like  to  know  his  feeling  about  your  work,  though  he  was  a 
stranger  to  you." 

Space  forbids  our  making  many  extracts.     In  1879  we  wrote  : 

During  the  twelve  months  whose  accounts  are  presented  in  our  present 
balance-sheet  one  thousand  and  seventy-six  donations  reached  us  for  the  General 
Fund,  and  three  hundred  and  twenty-seven  more  for  the  Building  Fund  ;  in  all, 
over  fourteen  hundred  donations,  besides  very  numerous  smaller  gifts  for  the 
passage  and  outfit  of  missionaries — a  separate  fund. 

Fourteen  hundred  donations,  scarcely  a  score  of  which  are  of  the  nature  of 
promised  subscriptions  on  which  we  can  count  ! 

Fourteen  hundred  times  did  our  heavenly  Father,  who  knows  the  needs  of 
His  own  work  and  our  needs,  move  some  heart  to  minister  to  our  Mission 
Institute. 

What  a  cause  for  thanksgiving  and  for  sincere  gratitude  !  If  we  speak  not  of 
His  faithfulness,  surely  the  very  stones  would  cry  out. 

It  would  have  been  impossible  for  us  to  sustain  this  undertaking  during  a 
year  of  such  singular  financial  trouble  and  depression  as  this  year  has  been.  The 
Lord  has  provided  !  We  see  most  distinctly  and  own  most  gladly  His  hand  in 
the  supplies  that  have  been  furnished,  and  give  to  Him  the  glory. 

Nearly  the  whole  of  these  donations  have  come  to  us  through  the  post  ;  and 
they  have  come  in  sums  varying  from  six  pennyworth  of  stamps  to  cheques  for 
^500  or  ,£1,000,  accompanied  often  by  such  kindly  expressions  of  sympathy  and 
approval  as  made  us  feel  that  our  donors  are  indeed  fellow  workers  in  a  very  real 
sense. 

We  have  however  often  had  our  faith  tried.     In  1880  we  wrote  : 

We  have  very  rarely  during  this  last  year  had  any  balance  at  all  to  our  credit, 
for  more  than  a  few  days  at  a  time.     Each  weekly  pay  day  has  swallowed  up 


222  Supplies  Running  Short. 

every  available  pound,  and,  alas  !  there  were  many — when  a  parcel  of  bills  had  to 
be  returned  to  their  places  unpaid,  there  being  no  funds  to  meet  them. 

We  feel  badly  when  this  occurs  !  We  are  quite  content  to  live  like  the  birds 
of  the  air,  which  have  neither  storehouse  nor  barn,  provided  we  can  just  pay  our 
way.  But  when  this  is  not  the  case  we  cannot  avoid  being  tried  and  burdened  in 
spirit,  so  that  it  is  our  constant  prayer  that  weekly  needs  may  be  met  by  weekly 
supplies. 

Even  should  they  not  be  so  met  for  a  time  however,  our  faith  and  hope  are 
still  in  God,  for  we  have  so  long  proved  His  faithfulness  !  We  increasingly 
believe  this  work  to  be  one  which  lie  approves,  because  of  the  way  in  which  lie 
blesses  and  prospers  it  ;  and  if  He  approve  He  will  sustain.  Sooner  or  later  the 
needed  help  always  has  been  sent,  and  we  trust  it  will  be  ! 

Most  thankfully  do  we  record,  to  the  praise  of  the  God  of  missions,  that  now 
after  seven  years  and  a  half  of  perpetually  increasing  expenses  there  is  not  a  single 
unpaid  claim  of  any  kind  against  this  Institute,  but  that  we  have  the  relief  and 
comfort  of  knowing  that  we  owe  no  man  anything. 

For  this  mercy  we  gratefully  praise  the  Lord,  and  lovingly  thank  our  fellow 
labourers,  and  especially  those  of  them  who  have  had  to  exercise  self-denial  in 
order  to  help.  And  we  thank  them,  not  merely  in  our  own  names,  but  in  the 
names  of  all  the  young  servants  of  Christ'whom  the  Institute  has  aided,  and  of  the 
far  larger  number  who  are  now  in  their  turn  being  helped  by  them,  all  over  the 
world.  To  have  been  permitted  to  send  forth  a  missionary  each  week  on  an 
average  for  the  last  twelve  months  or  more,  is  surely  a  privilege  to  be  grateful  for, 
as  well  as  to  be  reaching  with  the  gospel  week  by  week  thousands  of  souls  in  this 
mighty  Babylon  of  London.  May  you  and  we,  dear  friends,  esteem,  as  it  deserves 
to  be  esteemed,  the  honour  of  being  permitted  thus  to  serve  our  generation  by  the 
will  of  God  ! 

We  add  a  few  extracts  from  our  financial  diary  for  the  year. 

Nov.  ist. — Heard  of  the  death  of  a  friend  and  helper  in  this  work,  who  had 
intimated  to  us  lately  his  intention  of  aiding  us*  liberally  with  the  Building  Fund 
and  otherwise.  He  was  to  have  paid  us  a  visit  at  Cliff,  but  was  hindered.  His 
last  illness  was  brief,  and  admitted  of  no  pecuniary  arrangements  ;  so  his  kind  and 
liberal  intentions  were  never  carried  out.  What  an  illustration  of  the  importance 
of  the  precept,  "  Whatsoever  thy  hand  findeth  to  do,  do  it  with  thy  might"  ! 

Nov.  yd. — From  Southsea,  £\^.  This  donor  writes:  "God  has  spared  me 
yet,  and  I  send  a  cheque  for  General  Fund.  I  have  lost  a  good  slice  out  of  my 
income,  but  inclose  this  with  a  sincere  prayer  that  you  may  be  abundantly  blessed." 

Nov.  4th. — Had  been  burdened  all  day  in  spirit  about  the  state  of  our  funds, 
and  especially  the  Building  Fund.  This  evening  received  a  letter  from  a  lady  in 
London  with  a  gift  of  ^400  for  this  object.  What  a  mercy  !  The  Lord  reward 
her  !     How  good  and  gracious  He  is  in  supplying  each  need  as  it  arises  ! 

Nov.  •jth. — From  Chester  came  in  to-day  £$  as  a  thank-offering  "which  my 
wife  and  I  wish  to  make  [>x  many  mercies  received,  but   especially  fur  the  gift  ol  " 


A   Congo  Expedition:  ;£  1,400    Wanted.  223 

dear  baby.  We  sympathised  with  you  in  your  sad  bereavement  in  the  spring. 
Only  those  who  have  lost  children  can  conceive  the  bitterness  of  such  an  experi- 
ence !  It  has  pleased  God  to  take  five  of  our  little  ones  while  in  early  infancy, 
but  lie  has  now  spared  another,  and  we  wish  to  render  to  Him  all  our  thanks." 

Nov.  loth.  —  From  a  lady  in  Scotland,  £50.  "  I  am  thankful  to  be  able  to  fulfil 
my  desire  of  sending  the  inclosed  before  the  end  of  the  year,  and  only  regret  it  is  not 
in  my  power  to  send  more."  This  liberal  donor  is  herself  suffering  severely  from 
the  excessive  depression  in  certain  oriental  stocks  in  which  she  holds  a  large 
number  of  shares  ;  she  seems  to  regret  her  heavy  losses  mainly  because  they  limit 
her  power  to  help  in  the  Lord's  work.  This  donor  says  in  closing  :  "  I  will  only 
add  that  if  in  my  power  to  assist  next  year  or  at  any  future  time,  I  shall  be  only 
too  thankful  to  be  permitted  to  do  so."  Also  this  morning £50  from  Norfolk  and 
£5°  from  Yorkshire,  as  well  as  £25  from  Bath,  i.e.  £175  in  one  day,  after  we  have 
been  so  long  sorely  straitened  for  funds  !  How  mercifully  the  Lord  moderates  one 
source  of  trial  and  exercise  of  faith  when  another  is  about  to  arise.  This  money 
was  all  owing,  and  it  was  a  great  relief  to  be  able  to  pay  with  it  outstanding  bills. 
In  the  afternoon  sorrow  and  anxiety  came  upon  us  from  an  entirely  different 
source,  and  we  had  to  cry  to  the  Lord  for  help  of  another  kind. 

Nov.  20I/1. — From  a  dear  friend  at  Bristol,  whose  sympathy  with  missions  is 
of  a  very  practical  and  considerate  kind,  £10  with  a  "  hope  that  many  hearts  have 
been  led  to  help  at  this  time,"  and  an  offer  to  make  clothes  for  the  little  naked 
Africans  of  the  missionary  schools. 

Jan.  \$lh,  1S80. — £200  came  in  to-day,  thank  God  !  and  £70  of  it  from  a 
new  donor,  who  had  become  acquainted  with  our  work  from  the  prospectus  of  it 
appended  to  "The  Approaching  End  of  the  Age."  This  is  not  the  first  case  in 
which  the  volume  has  elicited  help  for  the  Institute.  Ah  !  if  the  truth  it  presents 
were  only  received  in  power  among  the  people  of  God,  no  mission  work  in  the 
world  would  suffer  lack  ! 

Jan.  26t/i. — To-day  we  engaged  in  the  Vanguard  passages  to  the  Congo  for 
Mr.  McCall,  the  three  other  brethren,  and  Mrs.  Richards.  We  have  not  as  yet  in 
hand  anything  like  the  funds  that  will  be  needful  for  this  expedition,  but  trust  that 
the  pamphlet  now  in  preparation  may  be  the  means  of  bringing  the  mission  under 
the  notice  of  many  able  to  help.  We  have  arranged  a  visit  to  Plymouth  with  the 
same  object,  and  are  making  daily  special  prayer  on  the  subject.  ,£1,200  or 
£1,400  at  least  will  be  required  to  provide  the  expedition  properly  for  twelve 
months. 

Jan.  31st. — Received  to-day  from  Scotland  a  noble  present  of  a  ton  and  a  half 
of  oatmeal,  a  year's  supply  for  our  students'  breakfasts. 

Feb.  3rd. — Plymouth.  Correcting  proof  of  Congo  pamphlet.  Had  a  drawing- 
room  meeting  in  the  evening  on  behalf  of  the  mission.  Many  kind  donations 
were  the  result.  £200  have  already  come  in  towards  the  passage  and  outfit  of  the 
Congo  party.     Thanks  be  to  God  ! 

Feb.  $th. — Had  another  Congo  meeting  at  the  Soldiers'  Institute,  Devonport, 
eliciting  much  real  sympathy.  "  The  Lord  will  provide  "  for  all  the  needs  of  the 
mission  ! 

Feb.  6th. — Received  a  large  donation  to-day  from  Derbyshire,  large  in  the 
balance  of  the  sanctuary.  "  I  am  sorry  I  cannot  help  more.  When  I  received 
your  passage  and  outfit  letter,  2d.  was  all  the  money  I  had.  It  is  only  by  self- 
tienial  that  I    nm  able  to  Bend  you  the  inclosed  shilling.     Things  are  very  hard 


224  Extracts  from  Correspondence. 

here,  from  the  depression  of  trade.  We  have  been  out  of  work  during  the  frost, 
as  we  are  quite  dependent  on  outdoor  labour  now."  Is  not  this  gift  in  the  sight 
of  God  of  great  price  ? 

Feb.  \Uh. — Held  a  drawing-ioom  meeting  for  the  Congo  Mission  at  our  dear 
cousin's,  at  Torquay.  Not  very  numerous,  but  very  sympathetic.  ,£30  were 
given  in  freewill  offerings  afterwards,  though  no  collection  was  made. 

Feb.  1 3///.  —  Visited  Exmouth. 

Feb.  19th.— £10  from  Clifton.  The  donor  says  :  "  It  pleased  our  heavenly 
Father  to  gather  home  on  December  8th  last  a  dear  young  friend  who  had 
been  long  to  me  as  an  adopted  daughter.  She  was  deeply  interested  in  your 
effort  to  help  out  missionaries.  A  few  hours  before  she  went  home  I  promised  to 
spend  for  her  in  such  work  the  sum  I  had  been  accustomed  to  give  her  yearly.  I 
now  inclose  you  ^10  for  your  African  party.     I  heartily  wish  it  God  speed  !  " 

Feb.  10th. — 2s.  6d.  from  a  retired  Moravian  missionary  in  Scotland..  "After 
having  had  the  privilege  of  serving  our  blessed  Lord  in  the  West  Indies  and  in 
this  country  for  nearly  fifty  years,  I  have  been  compelled  to  retire  from  active 
service.  Oblige  me  by  accepting  the  inclosed  as  a  token  of  my  high  esteem  for 
your  work,  with  my  humble  prayers  for  a  rich  blessing  on  all  you  do  and  say  and 
write." 

Feb.  2\th.  "The  First  Christian  Mission  on  the  Congo''  was  published  to- 
day. At  the  Aldersgate-street  prayer-meeting  mention  of  the  proposed  mission 
was  made,  and  prayer  was  offered  on  its  behalf.  It  was  stated  among  other  things 
that  a  printing  press  would  be  needed.  A  lady  present  came  forward  after  the 
meeting,  and  expressed  her  willingness  to  present  a  press  and  type  complete  to 
the  mission.     It  was  purchased  and  put  in  hand  for  packing  the  same  day. 

Feb.  2W1. — From  a  friend  in  her  sixty-eighth  year,  2CU.  "Very  thankful  that 
I  can  still  do  a  little  to  help  others,  being  very  feeble  and  low  in  funds." 

Mar.  2nd. — Our  farewell  meeting  for  our  dear  brethren  bound  for  the  Congo 
was  held  to-day.  We  were  thankful  that  it  was  so  ordered  that  M.  and  Mme.  de 
Coillard,  the  devoted  and  experienced  French  missionaries  to  the  Basutos,  hap- 
pened just  to  have  arrived  in  England,  and  were  brought  by  our  kind  friend, 
Major  Malan,  to  the  meeting.  They  were  the  leaders  of  the  late  native  African 
mission  to  the  Barotse,  and  Mr.  McCall  met  them  on  that  perilous  and  distant 
expedition.  He  was  delighted  to  see  them  again  on  this  occasion,  and  to  have 
words  of  parting  counsel  and  advice  from  this  veteran  African  missionary. 

Mar.  i,th. — A  farewell  meeting  was  held  yesterday  at  Mildmay  (when  a  sewing 
machine  was  promised  to  the  expedition),  and  to-day  one  at  the  West  End.  To- 
morrow we  go  to  Cardiff,  and  on  the  next  day  to  Leicester,  where  a  meeting  will 
be  held  in  the  chapel  with  which  Mr.  McCall  is  connected.  Funds  for  the  passage 
and  outfit  of  the  expedition  have  been  graciously  supplied,  and  we  hope  there  will 
be  enough  in  hand  to  meet  the  expenses  of  this  expedition,  before  it  sails,  through 
the  goodness  of  God. 

Mar.  <)th. — Received  to-day  from  Ireland  £$0  for  the  General  Fund ;  most 
welcome,  for  much  needed.  Farewell  meeting  in  Plymouth,  whence  the  expedi- 
tion sails  on  Wednesday,  D.V. 

Mar.  27th. — Received  a  sweet  and  cheering  note  from  Torquay,  with  £60 
for  the  Congo  Mission.  This  is  the  anniversary  of  the  death  of  our  two  dear 
children.  "  Those  that  sleep  in  Jesus  shall  God  bring  with  Him."  Can  the 
deeply  bereaved  ever  be  satisfied  again  ?     Come,  Lord  Jesus,  come  quickly  ! 


An  Anticipated  Legacy.  225 

Mar.  30///. — From  Dublin,  £$.  From  a  beloved  friend  who  speaks  of  it  as 
"  a  thankoffering  to  our  gracious  God  for  permitting  me  to  enter  upon  the  eightieth 
year  of  my  age.  '  Goodness  and  mercy  have  followed  me  all  my  days.  Bless  the 
Lord,  0  my  soul  ! '  " 

Mar.  31st. — Our  dear  friend  Miss  IT.  forwarded  to-day  the  results  of  the 
Plymouth  meetings  and  of  her  own  kind  efforts  to  spread  a  knowledge  of  this 
Institute  and  of  the  Congo  Mission  ;  ^70.  Received  also  from  Clifton  a  donation 
of  £50,  from  one  who  had  not  previously  helped  our  work.  So,  as  one  and 
another  fall  asleep,  the  Lord  raises  us  up  new  friends  in  accordance  with  His 
own  faithful  promise,  "  I  will  never  leave  thee  nor  forsake  thee." 

April  1st. — A  friend  sends  2s.  from  Liverpool  for  the  Congo  Mission,  saying  : 
"  I  am  in  honour  bound  to  our  little  son.  to  forward  it.  Indeed  it  is  now  a  fort- 
night since  he  begged  me  to  do  so.  I  had  been  telling  him  about  the  Congo 
Mission,  and  he  said,  '  I  should  like  to  help  it,  mother  ;  might  I  ?  '  I  reminded 
him  he  had  been  spending  his  money  for  something  else.  '  But  I  have  two 
shillings,  and  if  that  is  all  I  have  I  should  like  it  to  go.'  So  I  send  it,  poor  lamb! 
and  am  ashamed  that  he  has  so  often  reminded  me,  fearing  Mr.  McCall  would 
have  started  without  it.  We  have  felt  a  special  interest  in  him,  having  heard  of 
his  changed  life  and  purpose  from  my  brother-in-law,  Mr.  Tinling,  of  Reading. 
Oh,  how  great  a  work  it  is,  and  how  few  dedicated  to  it  !  " 

April  Zd,th. — Received  to-day  for  the  passage  and  outfit  of  the  party  for  the 
Congo  ^30,  from  a  beloved  friend  who  had  already  liberally  helped  the  Institute 
this  year.  "  This  money  is  a  portion  of  a  little  present  given  me  the  other  day  to 
appropriate  as  I  might  wish."  Happy  they  whose  luish  is  to  spend,  not  on  self- 
indulgence  or  self-gratification,  but  on  the  work  of  the  Lord  !  We  rejoice  to 
know  such  "shall  in  no  wise  lose  their  reward." 

April  26th. — From  Durham,  16s.  2d.  ;  "a  small  contribution  towards  passage 
and  outfit  of  the  missionaries  named  in  your  last  letter.  Apply  it  as  you  think 
best ;  I  am  only  sorry  that  I  cannot  increase  the  amount.  We  have  set  up  a 
passage  and  outfit  box,  and  every  week  our  little  ones  are  glad  to  drop  something 
into  it.  They  are  too  young  yet  to  understand  what  it  means,  but  it  accustoms 
them  to  the  habit  of  giving,  and  as  they  grow  older  they  will  understand  that  they 
are  thus  helping  forward,  in  a  little  measure,  the  gospel  in  the  'regions  beyond.'" 

April  30M. — From  Tavistock  three  dollars,  also  2s.  6d.  in  postage  stamps, 
from  "a  young  and  afflicted  Christian  needlewoman,  who  desires  to  have  fellow- 
ship in  your  service  for  the  Lord."  Also  ^"50  from  a  large-hearted  and  liberal 
London  merchant.  Welcome  gifts  both,  and  the  first  not  least  so.  Offerings 
made  by  the  poor  out  of  their  poverty  are  rich  in  cheer,  from  the  sincere  sympathy 
they  express  and  the  great  grace  they  evince. 

A  donor  who  forwards  £2  for  the  Congo  writes  :  "  Please  accept  the  inclosed 
donation  for  the  African  mission.  I  promised  the  Lord  I  would  give  one-tenth 
of  my  wages,  while  here,  to  foreign  missions  ;  this  is  for  six  months." 

Received  the  following  note  from  a  lady  :  "  I  purpose  on  Monday  next,  May 
3rd,  sending  you  ,£100  instead  of  leaving  it  to  your  Institute,  to  be  used  by  you 
as  you  think  best.  I  had  intended  to  make  it  a  legacy,  but  feeling  assured  that 
it  will  produce  a  far  higher  interest  in  the  Lord's  work,  I  decide  to  send  it  now." 
This  donation  reached  us  a  few  days  later,  and  was  devoted  to  the  Building  Fund. 
We  commend  this  line  of  conduct  to  the  notice  of  any  friends  who  may  have 
similarly  kind  intentions  towards  our  work.     It  saves  all  doubt  and  difficulty,  and 


226  Supplies  Needed  for  Building. 

possibility  of  litigation  which  not  unfrequently  arises  in  connection  with  legacies 
to  institutions. 

May  1st. — A  donor  who  sends  10s.  writes:  "Two  shillings  of  this  is  from 
one  of  my  little  boys,  and  constitutes  a  fifth  of  his  entire  income.  I  trust  it  may 
be  a  pledge  of  good  things  to  come  when  he  shall  be  able  to  give  perhaps  life  and 
strength  to  the  Lord's  service." 

Received  from  a  friend  this  morning  the  following  note  :  "I  have  this  morning 
received  quite  unexpectedly  ^125,  arising  from  an  investment  made  some  years 
ago  by  my  father,  which  has  never  paid  a  penny  before.  I  wish  to  send  this 
amount  to  you  for  the  Building  Fund  or  any  other  special  need  requiring  to  be 
met  just  now."  A  cheque  for  this  sum  reached  us  a  few  days  later,  and  was  a 
most  marked  and  gracious  answer  to  special  prayer.  We  had  promised  to  pay  the 
balance  due  on  the  new  college  this  month. 

May  4t/i. — From  a  dear  invalid  at  Newport  Pagnell,  £2  io.c  "Will  you 
please  accept  this  for  the  Institute,  with  thanks  for  the  Regions  Beyond.  As  an 
invalid,  shut  out  from  all  public  work,  I  feel  indebted  to  you  for  many  checks  to 
the  selfishness  which  is  so  apt  to  grow  when  weakness  is  of  long  standing.  Please 
forward  me  a  copy  of  the  Congo  Mission  pamphlet."  Surely  there  is  a  hint  here 
for  invalids  !  It  is  too  true  that  but  for  grace  physical  infirmities  of  long  conti- 
nuance have  a  tendency  to  produce  selfishness,  instead  of  sympathy,  as  they  should 
do.     But  grace  is  stronger  than  nature  ! 

May  yt/i. — From  Ireland,  from  an  old  and  valued  friend,  £15,  with  the  fol- 
lowing note:  "  I  have  often  thought  as  I  have  turned  over  the  pages  of  your 
periodical  that  if  there  was  a  work  to  the  claims  of  which  I  would  desire  to  re- 
spond, to  the  extent  in  which  I  was  able  to  do  in  other  days,  it  was  yours.  Very 
willingly  would  I  write  on  the  inclosed  cheque  a  sum  which  would  wipe  off  the 
whole  amount  required  for  your  Building  Fund,  if  it  were  in  my  power  to  do  so. 
But,  by  a  series  of  providences  which  I  need  not  relate,  my  income  has  been 
diminished  by  many  thousands  in  the  year,  and  in  this  position  I  am  called  to  con- 
front, to  a  comparatively  large  extent,  the  immense  liabilities  which  in  these  times 
attach  to  the  possession  of  Irish  property." 

May  io//;.— From  a  personally  unknown  friend  in  Italy  we  received  to-day 
a  very  welcome  donation  of  £50:  lie  writes  :  "  I  was  not  aware  of  the  large 
development  of  the  East  London  Institute,  nor  of  the  number  of  labourers  whom 
it  has  aided  in  their  studies,  till  I  saw  your  report,  which  I  have  read  with  deep 
interest." 

May  nt/i. — 2s.  6d.  from  Norfolk.  "We  read  with  much  pleasure  of  your 
work  in  spreading  the  gospel.  I  wish  we  could  send  you  a  large  subscription, 
but  we  are  only  working  people  with  eight  children.  May  God  accept  this  trifle  ! 
it  is  sent  with  a  pure  motive.  We  are  exceedingly  interested  in  our  village  home 
in  writings  on  unfulfilled  prophecy  :  I  am  going  to  afford  myself  an  '  Approaching 
End  of  the  Age.'  " 

May  14th. — A  most  welcome  gift  of  .£100  reached  us  this  morning,  filling 
our  hearts  with  thanksgiving  to  God,  and  meeting  some  of  out  most  pressing  re- 
quirements. The  donor  had  read  the  "Approaching  End  of  the  Age,"  and  had 
become  acquainted  with  our  work  by  the  notice  of  it  in  the  appendix.  We  are 
still  praying  for  large  supplies  for  the  Building  Fund. 

May  iS//;. — A  pleasant  surprise  relieved  our  minds  and  rejoiced  us  this 
morning.     A  friend,  who  wrote  to  us  only  a  few  days  ago,  regretting  he  could  not 


A  Missing  Ship.  227 

assist  at  present  with  our  Building  Fund,  sent  to-day,  most  unexpectedly,  a  cheque 
for  ^250.  "  Your  heavenly  Father  knoweth  that  ye  have  need  of  these  things." 
He  tries  our  faith,  but  He  never  fails  to  help  us  in  due  time.  We  see  His  hand 
most  markedly  in  this  incident. 

May  24th. — Again  we  have  to  sing  hallelujah  !  A  lady,  who  had  kindly 
offered  to  help  us  establish  a  convalescent  home  for  returned  missionaries  when 
we  were  thinking  of  making  such  an  addition  to  our  Institute,  on  hearing  that  we 
had  on  further  consideration,  and  for  reasons  which  she  approved,  abandoned  the 
project,  offered  (what  I  desired  but  hardly  dared  to  suggest)  to  transfer  her  in- 
tended donation  to  the  Building  Fund,  and  gave  us  a  cheque  for  ,£300.  Thus  the 
burden  is  gone  for  the  present,  and  our  many  prayers  answered  by  the  Lord  whom 
we  seek  to  serve  in  this  work.  We  can  now  fulfil  our  promise,  and  pay  the  final 
instalment  on  the  college  to  the  contractors  this  month.  "  The  Lord  is  good,  a 
stronghold  in  the  day  of  trouble,  and  He  knoweth  them  that  trust  in  Him." 

June  2nd. — Brighton,  £5.  "A  short  time  back  I  received  from  my  brother 
your  pamphlet,  the  '  First  Christian  Mission  on  the  Congo.'  Please  accept  in- 
closed £$  for  the  mission." 

June  \th. — A  pleasant  day  to  our  students  and  to  us.  Dear  Mr.  Spurgeon 
and  all  his  students  came  over  to  spend  the  afternoon  with  us.  But  ah  !  how  little 
We  know  what  is  going  on  elsewhere  !  This  same  day  died  at  Hospitalet  in  Spain 
our  dear  brother  Francesco  Previ,  after  a  short  attack  of  typhus  fever.  He  was 
not  twenty-nine  years  of  age,  a  holy  and  happy  labourer,  and  much  blessed  in  his 
work  :  his  death  seems  to  be  a  real  loss  for  Spain,  though  a  real  gain  for  our 
brother.  Rescued  from  the  darkness  and  delusions  of  Popery,  he  was  blessed  and 
made  a  blessing  to  many  Roman  Catholics  during  the  few  brief  years  of  his  Chris- 
tian life.     Now  is  he  most  blessed  for  ever,  "  in  paradise  with  Christ." 

June  nth. —  Received  two  sorrowful  missives  to-day,  a  letter  and  a  packet 
addressed  to  Thomas  Hands,  H.M.S.  "Atalanla"  Barbadoes,  West  Indies.  This 
direction  was  erased,  and  the  letters  were  returned  stamped  with  two  words,  assign- 
ing a  reason  for  non-delivery,  "Ship  missing."  Simple  words,  but  oh  how  full  of 
sorrowful  suggestion  !  That  dear  lad  Hands  !  How  bright  and  well  he  looked 
last  time  he  called  here,  the  very  picture  of  a  fine  young  English  sailor  !  Once  a 
waif  of  the  London  streets,  he  had  been  rescued  by  the  East  End  Juvenih  Mission 
and  transferred  to  our  care  at  Cliff.  After  some  years  spent  there  he  went  to  sea 
to  train  for  the  navy.  The  Lord  had  turned  his  young  heart  to  Himself  before 
he  left  us.  He  wrote  warmly  on  his  first  voyage  of  his  love  to  Christ  and  of  his 
desire  to  be  kept  from  evil.  What  a  comfort  to  think  that  in  the  awful  hour  when 
that  noble  training  ship,  with  hundreds  of  young  sailors  on  board,  foundered  in 
mitl  Atlantic  in  the  late  terrible  storms,  not  a  few  like  Thomas  Hands  were  safe 
on  the  Rock  of  ages,  and  had  no  evil  to  fear  !  The  ship  may  be  "  missing  "  from 
the  English  navy,  but  no  believer  who  perished  in  her  wreck  will  be  "  missing"  in 
the  day  of  Christ. 

July  2nd. — "  2s.  6d.,  in  memoriam  of  my  precious  mother,  now  three  years 
in  glory  ;  this  was  her  birthday." 

July  yd. — From  a  friend  in  Bolton,  £2.  "  I  would  gladly  send  more,  but  we 
are  passing  through  an  awful  crisis:  riches  have  taken  to  themselves  wings  and  gone 
away,  but  I  am  wishful  still  to  help  a  little  Christ's  servants  who  go  thus  to  Plis 
work.     The  sun  may  shine  again  some  day  and  enable  me  to  do  more." 

July  Jtli. — From    Ayr,  3.?.      "I    never    read    your    Regions  Beyond  without 


228  Day  by  Day  the  Manna  fell. 

growing  sympathy  and  desire  to  aid  you  in  your  blessed  work.  He  whom  we 
love  knows  the  measure  of  our  ability,  and  graciously  accepts  our  poor  offerings. 
My  circumstances  as  a  retired  aged  pastor  permit  me  to  do  very  little,  but  He 
knows  what  I  would  do.  Kindly  accept  the  inclosed,  and  send  me  a  copy  of  the 
'  First  Christian  Mission  on  the  Congo,'  which  I  wish  to  lend  so  that  others  may 
be  led  to  contribute." 

Julyzgth. — Received  from  Birmingham  ^"ioo  ;  a  great  mercy,  as  it  just  met 
bdls  due  to-day.     Paid  off  in  all  ^230  of  bills.     Thank  the  Lord  ! 

"  Still  by  daily  mercy  fed, 
Daily  food  for  daily  need." 

Aug.  6th. — From  'a  friendln  the  north  of  London  ,£10.  "  Forward,  forward, 
dear  madam,  to  the  rescue,  and  may  God  help  !  For  you  know  'it  is  not  by 
might,  nor  by  power,  but  by  My  Spirit '  ;  we  would  not  any  work  should  prosper 
without  Him,  even  if  it  could.  By  Him,  to  Him,  for  Him,  for  ever  and  ever  ! 
Amen." 

Aug.  gth. — Had  the  great  pleasure  of  receiving  to-day  ^"ioo  for  M.  Saillens, 
of  Marseilles,  and  ^100  for  the  Baptist  Missionary  Society's  Mission  on  the 
Congo.  It  is  as  great  a  cause  of  thanksgiving  and  joy  to  us  to  forward  help  to 
others  who  are  carrying  on  mission  work  as  to  receive  it  for  ourselves  !  The 
Lord's  work  is  one,  and  it  little  matters  who  is  doing  it. 

Sept.  St/i.— From  Brighton  £1  os.  gd.,  "being  first  day's  takings  in  my  new 
premises.     Trusting  that  your  labours  may  receive  still  greater  blessing." 

Sept.  gth. — ^50  from  Australia  for  the  Congo  Mission. 

Sept.  lot/i. — Heard  to-day  of  the  death  of  Mrs.  L ;  also  that  there  is  some 

danger  of  a  question  arising  as  to  the  legality  of  her  bequest  to  us  of  ^"1,000. 
Committed  the  matter  to  God  in  prayer  ;  His  will  be  done  ! 

Sept.  llth. — From  an  invalid  friend  in  North  London  two  guineas,  with  some 
touching  particulars  of  her  troubles,  after  which  she  adds  :  "  Please  do  not  think 
that  I  complain.  My  life  is  made  up  of  mercies,  and  He  who  gives  them  has  a 
right  to  choose  the  trial  best  for  me,  and  we  know  that  He  cannot  err.  I  wish  I 
could  send  a  missionary  like  Jonah  through  the  streets,  for  we  are  a  great  and 
assuredly  a  very  wicked  city." 

Sept.  28///. — A  dear  friend  called  to-day,  and  before  leaving  kindly  drew  a 
cheque  for  £7$,  which  being  much  needed  was  most  welcome. 

Sept.  30th. — Received  to-day  two  students  from  America  and  one  from 
Germany. 

Oct.  8t/i. — To-day  we  were  much  cheered  by  the  reception  of  a  kind  gift  OJ 
^"50  from  a  venerable  and  influential  clergyman  in  the  Church  of  England,  with 
a  brief  visit  from  whom  a  week  previously  we  had  been  much  edified  and  refreshed. 

"Sweet  is  the  union  true  believers  feel, 
Into  one  spirit  they  have  drunk  ;  the  seal 
Of  God  is  on  their  hearts  ;  and  thus  they  see 
In  each  the  features  of  one  family. 
If  one  is  suffering,  all  the  rest  are  sad  ; 
If  but  the  least  is  honoured,  all  are  glad. 
The  grace  of  Jesus,  which  they  all  partake, 
Flows  out  in  mutual  kindness  for  His  sake." 

This  kind  donor  had  known  us  only  through  our  writings  ;  but  we  no  sooner  met 
than  we  felt  like  old  friends,  like-minded  in  so  very  much,  differing  in  so  very 
little,  and  thoroughly  one  in  heart,  notwithstanding  those  differences.     It  is  a 


3,5io  Donations,  £16,359.  229 

proof  of  the  large-hearted  Christian  sympathies  of  many  of  the  clergy,  that  a  very 
considerable  number  of  them,  though  so  warmly  interested  in  their  own  noble 
missionary  society,  are  yet  generous  helpers  in  our  undenominational  effort. 

During  the  twelve  months  from  October  1st,  1880,  to  September 
30th,  1 88 1,  there  reached  us,  in  sums  varying  from  a  few  pence  to 
five  hundred  pounds,  from  all  parts  of  the  country  and  of  the  world, 
from  all  classes,  rich  and  poor,  high  and  low,  peer  and  peasant, 
from  sorrowing  widows  and  lonely  sufferers,  as  well  as  from  bright 
lads  and  lasses  in  school  and  Bible-class,  from  clergymen  and 
members  of  the  Churches  of  England  and  Scotland,  and  of  all  other 
evangelical  denominations,  often  from  beloved  friends  and  old 
acquaintances,  but  quite  as  often  from  utter  strangers,  clay  by  day 
continually  throughout  the  year,  in  answer  to  prayer,  all  the  funds 
needed  to  carry  on  the  many  works  committed  to  our  care.  Over 
1,400  donations  were  sent  during  these  twelve  months  for  the  General 
Fund  of  the  Institute,  934  for  the  passage  and  outfit  of  missionaries, 
688  for  the  Congo  Mission,  and  365  for  the  Building  Fund  :  a  total 
of  3,510  donations. 

Very  many  of  these  gifts  were  of  course  small,  but  so  large  and 
liberal  were  not  a  few  that  they  averaged  five  pounds  a  piece ;  the 
sum  total  being  ,£16,359. 

To  the  praise  and  glory  of  God  we  were  able  to  record  that,  just 
as  the  demands  we  had  to  meet  that  year  were  far  larger  than  those 
of  any  preceding  one,  so  the  income  was  far  larger  than  any  we  had 
previously  received. 

The  receipts  of  the  Institute  for  the  preceding  twelve  months  had 
been  about  £"i  1,000;  but  that  year,  when  an  additional  outlay  of 
.£5,000  for  the  Congo  Mission  was  needed,  as  well  as  many 
thousands  for  the  building  works  at  Cliff,  the  Lord,  who  knows  the 
needs  of  His  own  service,  and  is  well  able  to  meet  them,  inclined 
His  servants  to  send  in  an  additional  .£5,000.  Was  not  this  the 
finger  of  God  ? 

No  efforts  of  ours  could  have  secured  this  result.  We  had  been 
too  much  occupied  in  carrying  on  the  work  to  plead  much  for  it. 
Comparatively  few  were  the  meetings  held;  we  had  no  sales,  bazaars, 
concerts,  stone  layings,  or  money-getting  gatherings  of  any  kind. 
We  did  not  spend  a  pound  in  advertising  appeals  for  help.  We 
mentioned  to  our  friends  in  Regions  Beyond  the  needs  of  the  . 
work  as  they  arose,  and  the  Lord  gave  them  the  spirit  of  liberality, 
and  we  record  to  His  praise  that  we  found  Him  faithful  to  His 


230  The  Finger  of  God. 

promise,  and  that  the  enlarging  needs  of  our  service  were  met  by 
His  kind  bounty. 

We  were  the  more  grateful  for  it,  as  an  expression  of  Divine 
approval  on  the  step  we  were  led  to  take  in  assuming  the  respon- 
sibility of  the  Congo  Mission.  Some  of  our  friends  doubted  the 
propriety  of  our  doing  so,  and  we  ourselves  almost  hesitated.  It 
was  a  large  thing  to  add  at  a  stroke  to  our  already  considerable 
engagements  ;  would  it  not  have  a  tendency  to  swamp  the  Institute, 
and  plunge  us  in  serious  difficulties  ?  The  above  figures  were  a 
sufficient  reply  !  We  did  not  know  what  the  first  year  would  cost. 
It  proved  to  require  an  outlay  of  ^5,000.  And  ^5,000  was  added 
to  our  receipts  / 

Oct.  $th,  1880. — From  Hampstead,  ,£10  or  the  Institute,  with  Miss  E.  W.'s 
dying  love  and  best  wishes. 

Oct.  12th. — From  TJIverston,  ^"20.  "  I  wish  to  give  this  sum  as  a  donation  to 
the  Congo  Mission.  It  is  thirty-eight  years  this  month  since  my  clear  brother 
died,  not  far  from  that  great  river,  and  I  should  like  this  donation  to  be  acknow- 
ledged under  his  initials,  T.  H." 

Oct.  27th. — From  Southend,  ^5.  "  Some  time  since  I  lost  the  half  of  a  £$  note- 
I  never  could  tell  how,  as  it  was  no  use  to  any  one.  I  made  it  a  subject  of  prayer, 
and  resolved  that  if  I  found  it  it  should  go  to  your  Institution.  A  few  clays  after, 
going  to  one  of  my  drawers  which  4  constantly  use,  there  was  the  half  note,  the 
whole  of  which  I  now  inclose  with  great  pleasure.  Divide  it  as  you  please 
between  the  Outfit  and  General  Funds,  and  may  the  Lord's  blessing  continue  on 
the  work  !  " 

From  Hereford  a  donation  of  ^"ioo  "  for  your  great  and  blessed  work.  May 
the  Lord  long  spare  you  both  to  a  world  still  lying  in  the  wicked  one,  but  which 
one  clay  will  be  filled  with  His  glory  ! " 

Oct.  2Qth. — From  Stechford,  £1.  "I  have  lately  visited  a  dear  friend  in  Chelten- 
ham, who  lent  me  your  valuable  work,  'The  Approaching  End  of  the  Age,'  which 
I  read  with  the  deepest  interest.  I  thank  our  heavenly  Father  for  enabling  you 
to  write  and  publish  it,  and  pray  that  His  special  blessing  may  attend  your  work 
and  labour  of  love,  and  that  those  who  read  may  profit  by  it.  I  had  not  heard  of 
your  Institute  before,  or  if  I  had,  I  did  not  enter  into  its  object  as  now,  and  I 
wish  to  express  the  interest  I  feel  by  inclosing  a  sovereign  towards  its  expenses. 
I  know  it  is  but  like  a  drop  to  the  ocean  ;  but  that  is  composed  of  drops,  and  each 
one  tends  to  its  fulness.  God  prosper  this  part  of  your  work  for  Him,  and  make 
you  abundantly  useful  in  promoting  the  knowledge  of  His  will." 

From  Galashiels,  a  valuable  parcel  of  clothing,  with  .£10,  "  from  our  family. 
Please  accept  it  for  the  benefit  of  the  mission." 

Nov.  2nd.  Received  ^50  to-day  from  a  lady,  who  writes  of  a  dear  departed 
sister,  formerly  a  kind  helper  of  our  work,  but  for  some  time  previous  to  her 
decease  speechless  and  paralysed  :  "She  has  left  me  part  of  her  money,  and  I 
have  great  pleasure  in  sending  you  ^"50  of  it  towards  your  excellent  work.  I  feel 
in  doinc  this  that  I  am  fulfilling  her  wishes,  though  she  had  not  power  to  express 


Death  of  a  Student.  231 

them,  for  she  continued  to  take  a  warm  interest  in  your  and  Mr.  Guinness's 
work." 

Nov.  yh. — From  a  Young  Ladies'  Working  Association  in  Kent,  £$,  for  the 
Congo  Mission. 

Nov.  6th. — From  Durham,  14.?.  "  The  contents  of  our  Missionary  Passage  and 
Outfit  box  to  date.  Please  apply  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Rohrbach,  with  our  best  wishes 
for  their  prosperity  in  their  new  sphere.  We  have  many  pleasant  memories  of 
Christian  fellowship  with  them  when  settled  not  far  from  Cliff  four  years  ago." 

Nov.  20th. — From  Liverpool,  10s.  "I  was  sorry  I  could  not  respond  to  your 
Outfit  letter,  but  my  purse  for  giving  was  quite  empty  :  and  not  liking  to  say  so,  I 
waited,  hoping  I  should  get  an  order  for  work  so  as  to  replenish  it.  Next  day  my 
sister-hvlaw  called  to  ask  if  I  could  make  her  two  little  frocks  for  twins  that  had 
come  to  a  poor  woman  in  her  district.  I  gladly  consented,  the  frocks  were  duly 
appreciated,  and  I  duly  appreciated  the  money  thus  earned,  as  it  enables  me  to 
send  the  inclosed  P.O.O.,  which  please  appropriate  as  you  think  best." 

Dec.  2nd. — 5.C  6d.  in  stamps.  '•  3s.  from  myself,  and  2s.  6d.  from  a  poor  widow 
who  says  she  can  do  nothing  but  pray  for  the  work." 

Dec.  iSth. — From  a  clergyman  in  Lincolnshire,  £l    is. 

Dec.  30///. — From  Norwood,  ^5.  "  Yesterday  a  most  unlooked  for  gift  of  ,£5 
was  put  into  my  hands  for  any  work  in  which  I  was  engaged.  Except  Punrooty, 
there  is  none  more  dear  to  me  than  that  which  the  Lord  has  given  you  on  the 
Congo,  and  I  feel  it  is  a  great  privilege  to  ask  you  to  accept  it." 

Jan.  yd,  1SS1. — Heard  of  the  death  of  our  aged  friend,  H.  W.  He  has 
been  a  helper  in  our  work  here  for  some  years,  and  we  shall  miss  his  liberal  gifts. 
May  the  Loid  raise  up  new  friends  as  the  old  drop  off  !  Conferring  with  builders 
about  the  iron  house  for  Banana,  and  also  about  the  boat. 

Jan.  $th.- — Dear  Brother  Bradburn  died  at  I  p.m.  !  Ten  brief  days  of  illness, 
and  the  earthly  house  of  this  tabernacle  is  dissolved  !  And  yet  it  was  a  fair  and 
goodly  tabernacle,  that  looked  as  if  it  might  stand  for  many  a  year  !  Faith,  hope, 
and  love  were  clear  and  bright  to  the  end,  and  even  in  his  delirium  our  dear 
brother  was  preaching,  praying,  and  praising  God.  It  was  most  sad  to  witness 
his  sufferings,  which  medical  skill  could  not  alleviate,  though  we  had  several 
doctors  and  a  Mildmay  nurse.  The  students  helped  in  turn  to  sit  up  with  him, 
and  Miss  Haffner  watched  with  his  wife  last  night.  Oh  for  the  day  when  mortality 
shall  be  swallowed  up  of  life  ! 

Jan.  yth. — From  Banbury,  £2  2s.  "Please  accept  the  inclosed  towards  the 
Congo  Mission.  I  have  had  to  pass  through  the  terrible  grief  of  a  beloved 
husband,  thirty  years  of  age,  being  taken,  and  a  most  precious  son  of  eight  years. 
Blessed  be  God,  both  are  safe  in  Jesus  !  but  oh,  these  blanks  !  Unless  our  loving 
and  faithful  God  drew  very  near  at  times,  what  should  we  do?" 

(Mr.  Guinness  was  in  Liverpool  this  day,  and  on  his  laying  the  need  of  a  boat 
for  the  Congo  Mission  before  a  friend  there,  after  asking  the  Lord  to  incline  his 
heart  to  meet  this  need,  this  gentleman,  having  heard  his  statement,  said,  "  I  will 
give  it  to  the  mission."  A  meeting  held  in  the  city,  though  of  a  small,  semi-private 
character,  led  to  freewill  offerings  amounting  to  ,£300  for  the  Congo.) 

Jan.  10///. —  Received  by  post  this  morning  a  donation  of  ^500  from  a  friend 
personally  unknown.     The  Lord  be  praised  for  this  much  needed  help  ! 

Jan.  12th.  —  After  much  careful  and  prayerful  deliberation,  and  receiving 
many  indications    of  Divine  guidance,   we  to-day  took  decided  steps  as  to  the 


232  Extracts  from  Financial  Diary. 

establishment  of  a  station  at  Banana,  and  signed  the  contracts  both  for  the  iron 
house  and  the  boat. 

Feb.  1st. — Received  to-day  from  a  dear  little  schoolgirl,  in  a  registered  letter, 
a  sovereign.  "  Since  I  first  began  to  receive  my  allowance  I  put  away  some  each 
quarter,  and  at  last  I  have  got  one  pound  !  Is  it  too  little  to  send  to  the  Congo  ? 
I  want  it  to  go  to  that.  Please  take  it  for  that,  from  your  loving  little  U.  T.  H." 
God  bless  the  dear  child,  and  make  her  glad  hereafter  with  the  eternal  reward  of 
his  act,  no  little  proof  of  love  in  the  eyes  of  Him  who  judgeth  according  to  that  a 
man  hath  ! 

Considering  the  question  of  converting  the  sailing  boat  into  a  steam  launch  for 
the  Congo.  It  would  be  a  very  great  advantage,  but  will  more  than  double  its 
price.  Yet  the  winds  on  the  river  are  fitful  and  little  to  be  depended  on,  and 
detention  amid  the  malarial  emanations  of  the  mangrove  swamps  bordering  the 
lower  river  must  needs  be  dangerous  to  health.  If  the  Master's  service  demands 
the  heavier  outlay,  He  can  supply  the  means. 

Feb.  3rd.  —  Received  to-day  from  the  Orkney  Islands  ^100  for  the  Congo 
Mission.  We  gave  thanks  very  heartily  for  this  gift,  and  in  the  course  of  the  day 
ordered  steam  machinery  for  the  boat,  converting  her  into  a  steam  launch,  which 
can  also  sail  or  be  rowed  if  needful. 

Feb.  St/i. — A  friend  at  Brighton,  who  has  kindly  undertaken  to  pay  for  the 
passage  and  outfit  of  two  of  the  new  missionaries  for  the  Congo,  sent  to-day  the 
sum  for  the  purpose,  and  for  their  expenses  during  the  first  year.  We  are  always 
thankful  when  Christian  friends  are  led  thus  to  adopt  some  special  labourer  or 
labourers,  believing  that  a  peculiar  sympathy  is  developed  in  such  cases,  and  that 
special  prayer  is  made  by  the  donor  for  God's  blessing  on  the  work  so  sustained. 
Ought  not  every  rich  Christian  to  have  thus  one  representative  at  least  in  heathen- 
dom? And  ought  not  very  rich  disciples  to  have  one  such  in  every  great  division 
of  heathendom  ? 

From  Clapton,  a  parcel  of  socks  from  an  invalid  sister,  who  is  scarcely  able  to 
continue  the  knitting  by  which  she  has  provided  with  socks  a  considerable  number 
of  our  missionaries.  "  I  cannot  do  much  of  anything,  my  sight  is  so  queer,  and 
the  severe  symptoms  returning.  The  cold  has  tried  my  feeble  heart  greatly, 
though  mercifully  I  have  no  cough." 

Feb.  \oth. — Faith  and  hope  are  tried  to-day.  Means  have  been  coming  in 
for  the  Congo  Mission,  but  the  General  Fund  is  very  low.  This  is  pay  day,  and 
we  have  not  enough  to  cover  the  weekly  bills  for  housekeeping  ;  nor  have  we  any 
of  our  own  that  we  can  lend  or  give  to  the  Institute  !  Empty  purses,  and  no 
balances  at  bank  !  Yes,  but  Jehovah  Jireh  !  "  I  trust  in  the  mercy  of  God  for 
ever  and  ever.  ...  I  will  wait  on  Thy  name  ;  for  it  is  good  before  Thy 
saints"  (Ts.  lii.  8,  9). 

Feb.  iy/i. — £10  from  Brighton,  for  the  Congo  Mission.  "A  thank-offering 
for  the  conversion  of  a  niece  in  a  remarkable  manner,  in  answer  to  prayer." 

Feb.  ljt/i. — Another  weekly  pay  day  finds  us  still  unable  to  meet  the  bills 
due.  On  calling  to  see  a  friend  at  the  other  side  of  London,  a  dear  old  lady 
staying  in  her  house  handed  me  ^n  for  the  Congo  Mission;  and  on  my  return 
home  in  the  evening  I  was  greeted  with  the  intelligence  that  a  lady,  who  would 
not  stay  or  say  whom  it  came  from,  had  left  at  the  door  a  Bank  of  England  note 
for  ,£100  !     The  Lord  be  praised  ! 


Various  Contributions.  233 

[N.B. — We  afterwards  learned  particulars  about  this  donation  which  made  us 
marvel  at  the  grace  of  God  in  the  beloved  donor,  whose  name  must  not  be  even 
hinted.  "  There  were  giants  in  those  days"  before  the  flood,  but  they  were  carnal 
giants  only,  and  great  in  sin  as  in  stature  ;  there  are  giants  in  these  days,  though 
they  be  little  in  the  world's  esteem,  giants  in  grace  and  fidelity,  in  love  and  self- 
denial.] 

Feb.  \%th. — From  Bristol,  £$,  Passage  and  Outfit.  "Once  more,  though 
unexpectedly,  the  aged  pilgrim  is  enabled  to  respond  to  the  call  for  aid  to  send 
forth  labourers  into  the  vineyard.  May  the  Master's  presence  go  with  them  and 
be  to  them  a  mouth  and  wisdom  which  no  man  can  gainsay." 

"  From  an  elderly  widow  (whose  income  is  dependent  on  her  earnings),  £\  a>. 
for  passage  and  outfit  of  missionaries." 

Feb.  lgth. — The  Lord  is  good  !  Within  the  last  three  days  we  have  received 
or  the  various  funds  over  ^500.  What  a  mercy,  especially  just  now,  when 
anxieties  of  another  kind  are  rather  pressing  ! 

Feb.  22  W. — Praise  God  !  To-night  there  came  from  an  entire  stranger  a 
donation  of  ^"150,  "to  be  used  by  you  in  your  mission  work.  Please  do  not  let 
my  name  appear  in  any  list."  Who  moved  the  heart  of  this  unknown  donor  ?  He 
of  whom  it  is  written,  "  casting  all  your  care  upon  Him,  for  He  careth  for  you." 
Also  a  box  of  beautiful  jewellery  from  a  lady  in  Edinburgh  who  has  learned  to 
esteem  a  higher  style  of  ornament. 

Feb.  2§th. — From  Hastings.  "  I  have  great  pleasure  in  sending  you  an  antique 
locket  picked  up  on  the  beach  at  Ceylon,  to  be  sold  for  the  benefit  of  the  Institute. 
The  subject  is  Diana  turning  Actaeon  into  a  stag.  The  work  is  said  to  belong  to 
the  seventh  century  and  to  be  worth  £30.  but  I  shall  be  content  if  you  can  get 
;£io  for  it.  Only  lovers  of  the  antique  and  collectors  would  be  likely  to  prize  it. 
I  hope  you  will  be  fortunate  in  meeting  with  some  one  who  values  such  things." 

[N.B. — We  have  not  yet  met  with  a  purchaser  for  this  locket,  and  should  be 
glad  if  any  of  our  friends  would  mention  it  in  likely  quarters.] 

Mar.  yd. — From  Dublin,  £10.  "We  have  been  reading  with  deep  interest 
the  journal  of  Mr.  McCall,  the  leader  of  the  Congo  Mission.  The  energy  and 
faith  of  these  labourers  are  most  encouraging,  and  make  some  of  us  feel  how  little 
we  are  doing  in  the  glorious  work.  True,  some  have  laid  down  their  lives,  called 
home  in  the  midst  of  their  labour  ;  but  in  the  recent  sad  wars  in  Affghanistan  and 
South  Africa  how  many  of  the  young  and  strong  have  laid  down  their  lives  at  the 
shrine  of  the  prince  of  darkness  !  May  Christians  more  and  more  see  that  all  war 
is  opposed  to  the  extension  of  the  kingdom  of  the  Prince  of  peace  !  I  inclose  a 
cheque  for  the  band  so  soon  to  follow  the  first  party." 

Mar.  8///.— Farewell  meeting  at  Steinway  Hall  for  the  outgoing  mission  band. 
Much  warm  and  kindly  sympathy  cheered  the  hearts  of  the  dear  brethren.  Lord 
Polwarth  and  Mr.  Blackwood  spoke  brave  and  true  words  ;  and  dear  Hore,  from 
Tanganyika,  and  Felkin,  from  Uganda,  told  fiom  experience  of  the  life  of  a 
Central  African  missionary. 

Mar.  gth. — To-day  we  launched  the  little  steamer  for  the  Congo,  naming  her 
The  Livingstone.  Many  prayers  went  up  to  God  for  her  preservation,  and  that 
she  may  rentier  real  service  to  the  mission. 

Mar.  ijth. — Our  brother  Smith  was  married  early  this  morning,  and  parted  with 
his  bride  a  few  hours  later  at  St.  Pancras,  a  trying  arrangement  necessitated  by 
the  circumstances  of  the  case.     Started  with  the  whole  Congo  party  for  Leicester, 


234  £ZA°4  f°f  Congo  Mission. 

where  a  large  farewell  meeting  was  held  in  the  evening.  It  was  crowded  out,  and 
an  overflow  meeting  held  elsewhere.  Much  prayer  for  the  party,  and  much  kind 
sympathy. 

Mar.  iSt/i. — Proceeded  to  Liverpool,  where  we  were  most  kindly  welcomed 
by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Reginald  Radcliffe,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Menzies,  and  other  Christian 
friends.  Farewell  meeting  afterwards,  and  many  loving  greetings.  The  hearty 
sympathy  and  cheerful  courage  of  these  dear  friends  did  much  to  brighten  the 
departure  of  this  band  of  brethren. 

Mar.  19///. — Accompanied  the  party  to  the  ship.  Rough  and  stormy  morn- 
ing. The  Corisco  lying  far  up  the  river.  We  found  the  Livingstone  and  her  two 
boats  safely  stowed  on  the  deck,  and  a  comfortable  little  cabin  appropriated  to  our 
party.  Had  one  last  prayer-meeting  in  it  as  we  dropped  down  the  river  with 
them,  and  then  with  full  hearts  passed  to  the  deck  of  the  tender,  and  watched 
the  steamer  go  on  her  way  !  Angus,  Ingham,  Waters,  Smith,  and  Habens  waved 
their  last  adieux,  as  we  sang  with  the  friends  who  were  with  us,  "  Stand  up,  stand 
up  for  Jesus,  ye  soldiers  of  the  Cross." 

Mar.  26th. — Cheered  by  a  very  unexpected  and  welcome  gift  of  ^500,  from 
a  friend  in  Torquay  who  sympathises  with  the  Congo  Mission. 

Mar.  2%th. — The  Bishop  of  Huron  had  asked  for  some  volunteers  for  the 
western  part  of  his  extensive  and  rapidly  filling  diocese.  Brethren  Taylor  and 
Hale,  wishing  to  avail  themselves  of  this  opening,  agreed  to-day  to  send  them  out. 
Also  Mr.  Chalmers  to  a  mission  sphere  in  Scotland. 

Mar.  2,0th. — Thanks  be  to  God  !  we  have  paid  now  all  the  present  liabilities 
of  the  Congo  Mission,  and  set  aside  the  wages  of  the  Kroomen,  in  all  ,£3,404, 
and  have  still  a  balance  in  hand  towards  its  future  expenses.  Thus  during  the 
last  three  months,  when  the  heaviest  demands  have  come  upon  us  for  this  mission, 
the  Lord  has  sent  in  for  it  nearly  ,£4,000,  and  we  have  enough  to  send  out  the 
remaining  brethren  who  are  anxious  to  go,  and  who  are  needed.  This  is  almost 
more  than  we  had  faith  to  anticipate.  Hallelujah  !  Messrs.  White  and  Blunt 
will  sail  on  the  12th  of  next  month  (D.V. ). 

155-.  from  Surrey.  "I  was  very  pleased  at  the  close  of  a  Bible-class  this  after- 
noon to  have  handed  to  me  a  golden  offering  in  the  shape  of  105.  from  two  friends. 
Though  sent  thus  anonymously,  I  know  it  comes  from  two  working  men  to  whom 
I  lent  the  Congo  pamphlet.  I  should  like  to  keep  up  the  interest  and  lend  them 
Regions  Beyond.  They  are  both  intelligent  and  educated,  and  one  never  knows 
whom  the  Lord  may  call  to  the  actual  mission  field  in  time  to  come." 

April  5///. — From  Banstead,  155.  for  the  Congo  Mission.  "My  wife  and 
myself  beg  you  to  accept  the  inclosed  small  sum  as  a  thankoffering  for  mercies 
received  from  our  loving  Father.  We  are  very  poor  now,  and  have  but  30?.  to 
give  to  the  Master.  We  have  divided  it  between  your  mission  and  the  Baptist 
mission.  Please  do  not  publish  our  names.  We  wish  your  work  every  success, 
and  pray  the  Lord  of  the  harvest  to  give  you  many  precious  sheaves." 

April  12//1.  —  From  Sunderland,  three  guineas.  "  I  have  pleasure  in  sending 
you  the  inclosed  cheque  from  the  thankoffering  on  the  occasion  of  the  thirty-sixth 
anniversary  of  the  opening  of  Bethesda  Chapel,  and  the  fortieth  of  our  beloved 
pastor's  ministry  here.    The  deacons  wish  you  to  appropriate  it  as  you  think  best." 

April  14th. — brethren  White  and  blunt  were  in  the  midst  of  their  final  pre- 
parations for  sailing  on  Saturday,  when  a  batch  of  Congo  letters  arrived.  Thank- 
ful 16  have  :i  chance  of  answering  Eherti  promptly,  we  wrtfi  opening  thsifi  wiiH 


Swedish  Auxiliaries.  235 

pleasure  when  the*  first  thing  that  caught  our  eye  was  the  sad  tidings  of  dear  Hugh 
McKergow's  death  at  Palaballa  on  January  nth  !  The  revulsion  of  feeling  was 
strong,  and  the  shock  great  !  The  outward  bound  brethren  feel  it  keenly,  but  are 
unshaken  in  their  purpose.  But  oh,  what  a  mission  !  A  third  precious  young  life 
sacrificed  already — and  sacrificed  as  it  were  by  accident.  The  wreck  of  a  canoe 
prevented  help  reaching  our  dear  brother,  till  it  was  too  late  !  He  was  carefully 
and  lovingly  tended  at  last,  and  everything  done  that  could  be  done,  but  the 
ground  lost  during  the  early  stage  of  the  fever  could  not  be  recovered.  His  work 
is  done,  his  rest  come  very  early.  His  own  words,  on  hearing  that  he  was  going 
home  to  heaven,  "Thy  will  be  done,"  are  the  only  ones  we  can  use  ! 

April  2tyh. — All  the  last  fortnight  have  been  detained  at  Cliff,  which  is  in 
possession  of  the  builders,  considering  the  details  of  many  new  arrangements. 
We  are  anxious  to  do  the  work  permanently  and  well  while  it  is  in  hand,  and  the 
alterations  demanded  are  numerous  and  extensive.  What  ruin  and  desolation 
attend  the  first  steps  towards  reconstruction  and  improvement  !  It  would  be  folly 
to  judge  of  what  is  to  be,  here  for  instance,  by  what  is  now.  To  all  appearance 
nothing  but  harm  has  been  done  yet  !  We  must  wait  for  the  result  to  show  the 
wisdom  of  all  these  proceedings.  Nothing  could  exceed  the  discomfort  and  deso- 
lation of  the  existing  state  of  things ;  not  a  comfortable  corner  left  anywhere,  and 
scarcely  a  room  secure  from  draughts.  But  we  walk  by  faith,  not  by  sight  ;  the 
end  will,  we  know,  compensate  for  all.  Is  not  this  a  parable?,  "  What  I  do  thou 
knowest  not  now,  but  thou  shalt  know  hereafter." 

May  lit, — From  Simla,  India,  £^\,  making  with  a  previous  donation  ^"ioo. 

May  2W1. — Have  been  holding  a  week's  meetings  at  Ryde  and  Southsea. 
Gospel,  prophetic,  and  missionary.  After  one  of  the  latter  a  lady  was  led  to 
devote  ^"50  to  the  sending  out  of  a  fresh  missionary  to  the  Congo.  Many  others 
also  were  moved  to  help,  and  much  kind  sympathy  elicited. 

yune  i8t/i. — The  contractors  at  Clift  are  requiring  instalments,  and  we  have 
been  praying  especially  for  some  large  donations  for  the  Building  Fund.  To-day 
the  Lord  put  it  into  the  heart  of  one  of  His  servants,  a  cheerful  giver,  to  devote 
^"500  to  this  object !  Deeply  grateful  for  this  welcome  aid  at  this  crisis.  "  I  will 
trust  and  not  be  afraid." 

June  2$rJ. — -,£100  from  a  dear,  aged,  and  unknown  Church  of  England  donor 
at  Hereford,  one  whose  praise  is  in  all  the  Churches,  and  who  loves  to  help  all 
missions.  It  is  wonderful  the  way  in  which  our  heavenly  Father  meets  every 
need,  filling  our  hearts  with  grateful  praise. 

July  4. — Dr.  Nystrom  and  Pastor  Ekmann,  from  Stockholm,  have  been 
spending  a  few  days  with  us  in  conference  about  the  work  on  the  Congo.  They 
had  thought  of  establishing  a  Swedish  mission  there,  but  have  decided  not  to 
attempt  any  separate  organization,  but  to  work  with  and  through  the  Livingstone 
Inland  Mission.  Cheered  and  strengthened  by  the  simple  faith  and  bright 
earnestness  of  these  dear  brethren.  It  is  decided  that  Engval,  a  young  Swedish 
brother,  who  came  tons  through  them,  shall  be  one  of  the  next  party. 

yuly  6th. — From  a  friend  in  the  north  of  London,  icu.  "  I  am  glad  to  find  my 
little  store  of  firstfruits  will  allow  of  my  having  a  tiny  share  in  the  outfit  of  your 
new  party,  some  of  whom  are  truly  being  '  baptized  for  the  dead.'  May  the  Lord 
who  gives  the  courage  and  consecration  preserve  them  for  His  service." 

'Jttly  Ji/i. — ,£io  from  a  young  clergyman,  who  writes  ;   "I  see  you  are  Sending 


236  Saved  in  an  Earthquake. 

out  eight  or  nine  fresh  men.  I  hope  you  will  accept  £1  each  towards  their  outfits, 
and  if  there  is  any  surplus,  apply  it  as  may  seem  right  to  yourself.  I  do  not  send 
this  without  prayer  that  the  men  may  be  much  blessed  in  their  different  works." 

[This  dear  young  donor  has  since  fallen  asleep  in  Jesus.  He  responded  thus  to 
every  Passage  and  Outfit  letter.]. 

July  St/i. — £10  from  Sidmouth.  "I  am  sorry  that  I  have  been  unable  to 
send  you  a  little  help  towards  your  Derbyshire  expenses  before  now.  I  am  very 
blind,  and  have  fallen  downstairs,  broken  my  collar  bone,  lacerated  the  tendons  of 
my  arm  and  shoulder,  and  my  whole  system  is  unstrung,  so  that  I  have  had  no 
energy  even  for  writing  a  letter.  Since  writing  the  above  sentences  I  have  a  letter 
from  you  on  the  further  despatch  of  missionaries.  Please  apply  my  cheque  to  any 
work  you  have  in  hand  for  God's  glory,  wherever  it  is  most  wanted." 

,£100  from  Ireland  for  the  Congo  Mission,  with  "Grace  and  peace  be  multi- 
plied unto  you  from  God  our  Father  and  from  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 

Brethren  Frederickson,  Billington,  and  Engval  left  for  Liverpool,  to  sail 
to-morrow  for  the  Congo.     May  their  lives  be  precious  in  His  sight  ! 

July  glh. — Received  to-day  for  the  General  Fund  ^50,  and  ^200  from  Nor- 
wood for  the  Building  Fund. 

From  Falmouth,  tl  $s.,  for  Passage  and  Outfit ;  2>s-  from  my  class  of  boys,  is. 
from  myself,  and  u.  from  my  sister.  Would  it  were  ten  times  the  amount !  but 
we  are  pressed  ourselves  at  present,  building  for  our  fast  increasing  children  in  the 
school." 

July  13th. — £2  las.  from  North  London;  "  £1  gs.  a  contribution  to  the 
Passage  and  Outfit,  and  one  guinea  my  dear  husband's  thankoffering  that  we  are 
still  spared  to  live,  love,  and  work  together  as  you  are,  only  we  are  much  older." 

From  Weymouth,  ^10,  from  an  invalid.  "I  cannot  actively  serve,  but  only 
contribute." 

July  15///.  From  South  Croydon,  ^5.  "  I  should  wish  it  applied  to  the 
ransoming  of  a  poor  African  child,  a  boy,  according  to  the  suggestion  of  good  Mr- 
Craven,  whose  health  I  trust  may  soon  be  restored,  as  also  that  of  his  wife." 

From  Ireland,  ^15.  "  I  would  like  ^"5  of  this  to  be  applied  "  'i  to  rescue  from 
misery,  slavery,  and  heathenism  a  little  black  child,"  to  be  called,  "  if  a  boyi 
Robert  Johnstone  Hamilton,  or  if  a  girl,  Richenda  Johnstone  Hamilton,  in  memory 
of  a  dear  daughter  recently  called  by  the  Master  after  the  birth  of  her  second 
child,  a  baby  boy,  who  followed  her  in  a  few  weeks." 

July  161/1. — From  Worcester,  ^50,  "towards  the  support  of  my  missionary 
in  Africa,  with  assurances  of  my  continued  warm  interest  in  your  interesting  and 
far  spreading  work."  This  liberal  donor  supports  one  missionary  entirely  at  her 
own  expense,  and  sets  thus  an  example  that  very  many  might  well  follow. 

Reading,  £$,  for  the  ransom  of  children.  "  The  plan  commends  itself  to 
me  as  likely  to  become  exceedingly  useful.  Please  devote  the  inclosed  toward 
this  fund." 

July  18//1. — From  Hampstead  ^5.  "  I  have  read  with  the  deepest  interest  the 
July  number  of  Regions  Beyond.  Indeed  I  have  the  greatest  sympathy  with 
your  work  of  preparing  and  sending  out  earnest  young  men  to  carry  the  glad 
tidings  to  men  who  have  never  heard  it.  The  inclosed  cheque  for  ,£5  is  a  small 
thankoffering  to  Him  who  spared  the  life  of  one  of  my  dear  sons,  nearly  killed 
during  the  severe  shock  of  earthquake  in  Manilla.  I  should  be  glad  if  you  would 
appropriate  it  to  the  ransoming  of  a  little  boy,  whom  I  should  wish  to  be  called 
after  my  son,  Frederick  Cogan,  whom  I  hope  to  interest  in  the  little  one's  future." 


Loans  for  the  Building  Fund.  237 

July  20lh. — From  the  Orkney  Islands,  ^"ioo  for  the  Congo  Mission.  This 
same  donor  had  previously  sent  liberal  help,  and  gave  a  similar  sum  three  months 
later.  The  grace  of  liberality  is  remarkably  bestowed  on  some,  and  is  a  grace 
that  evidently  grows  like  all  others  by  exercise,  and  withers  without. 

yuly  26th. — From  Dublin,  10s.  for  the  Congo  Mission.  "  If  any  are  found 
willing  to  undertake  this  perilous  work,  I  must  have  a  small  share  in  providing  the 
necessary  outfit.     I  must  also  thank  you  for  the  Regions  Beyond." 

yuly  27th. — Received  from  Kinsladie  to-day  the  sorrowful  tidings  that  our 
brother,  Mr.  Eldershaw,  died  on  the  25th,  at  IO  p.m.  He  was  attacked  with 
smallpox  on  his  way  home,  and  had  to  be  removed  to  hospital  at  Perth.  It  is 
but  a  week  ago  he  left  us  in  apparent  health  and  strength,  looking  forward  with 
pleasure  to  his  vacation  engagements  ! 

£2  10s.,  for  the  Congo  Mission.  "This  sum  represents  the  pence  given  by 
the  children  of  the  Clapton  Hall  Sunday  School  towards  their  mission  fund. 
They  desire  that  this  should  be  handed  to  you  on  account  of  your  African 
mission,  and  I  have  much  pleasure  in  being  the  channel  through  which  it  is 
forwarded." 

y>(ly  28th. — £1  6s.,  for  the  Congo  Mission,  from  a  juvenile  missionary  society 
and  band  of  hope  in  Ireland. 

From  Chicago,  £2,  for  the  Congo  Mission,  from  a  lady's  Bible-class. 

Aug.  4th. — Mr.  and  Mrs.  Craven  arrived  from  the  Congo  with  two  native  boys 
and  a  little  girl.  They  look  thin  and  ill,  but  are  much  benefited  by  the  voyage. 
Thank  God  !  their  lives  are  spared.  They  bring  but  poor  tidings  of  dear  McCall. 
Many  letters  by  this  mail.  Hear  that  ,£100  has  been  paid  into  the  bank  to  our 
account,  which  just  enables  us  to  meet  the  week's  bills.     Thanks  be  to  God  ! 

Aug.  gth. — The  last  week  or  two  funds  very  insufficient  to  meet  claims, 
which  are  very  heavy  just  now.  "It  is  better  to  trust  in  the  Lord  than  to  put 
confidence  in  princes."  He  knows  the  need,  and  will  provide  !  Our  hope  is  in 
Him. 

Aug.  10th. — From  Southsea,  2s.  "A  very  small  but  most  willing  offering 
towards  your  gigantic  work.     Only  wishing  it  were  ^200. " 

Aug.  ljth. — Have  received  within  the  last  few  days  several  large  sums,  either 
as  gifts  or  as  loans,  for  the  Building  Fund.  We  don't  expect  to  be  able  to  pay  in 
one  year  the  heavy  outlay  for  the  new  college  here  at  Cliff,  and  feel  free  to  borrow 
a  portion  of  the  needful  money  for  a  few  years,  as  the  trust  property  affords  ample 
security  and  the  trustees  approve.  One  friend  has  lent  ^500,  and  another  ^250. 
Besides  this,  there  reached  us  from  London  a  gift  of  ^250,  and  from  Hereford 
one  of  ,£50,  enabling  us  to  pay  the  needed  instalments.  "The  Lord  is  rich  to  all 
that  call  on  Him,  to  all  that  call  on  Him  in  truth." 

Aug.  iSth. — From  a  dear  sufferer  at  York,  $s.,  for  the  Livingstone  Inland 
Mission.  "  My  dear  aunt  wishes  me  to  send  the  inclosed  for  the  work  in  Africa 
with  her  love.  It  was  my  aunt's  eighty-third  birthday  this  week,  and  our  loved 
mother  is  eighty-six.  How  sad  it  would  be  to  see  the  evening  shadows  gather,  if 
our  blessed  Lord  had  not  abolished  death,  so  that  we  journey  on  to  life,  and  not 
to  death  !  " 

Aug.  20th. — Heard  of  the  donation  of  the  Henry  Reed  steamer  for  the  upper 
Congo.  Deeply  thankful  !  Surely  GOD  is  working  for  the  evangelization  of 
Central  Africa  !  The  need  is  only  prospective,  yet  the  supply  comes,  as  if  to  say, 
"  Speak  unto  the  people,  that  they  go  forward  !  " 

Q 


238  Our  Treasurer,  and  Accounts. 

Sept.  6//i.— From  Framlingham  £1  15.?.  "My  mother  has  attained  her 
eighty-fifth  birthday,  and  is  well  in  health,  so  wishes  to  give  some  thankofferings 
for  many  mercies  ;  this  is  one  of  them." 

Sept.  iy/i. — From  a  widowed  mother,  recently  bereaved  also  of  her  youngest 
child,  and  left  with  two  fatherless  little  ones,  $s.  "I  did  think  so  much  of  you 
and  the  loss  of  your  two  sweet  little  girls.  I  read  that  letter  several  times,  and 
never  without  tears  !     From  one  -who  feels  very  lonely." 

Sept.  20th. — From  Enniskillen,  £5,  for  the  Building  Fund.  "  The  Lord 
graciously  gives  me  to  share  His  own  sympathies  with  you  in  carrying  out  His 
word,  '  Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature.'  I  am 
an  old,  feeble,  nearly  worn  out  worker,  toiling  on  still  for  souls  in  small  meetings 
here,  but  my  heart  and  prayers  are,  I  think,  equally  in  China  and  Africa.  '  We 
shall  meet  in  the  Eden  above.' " 


Stevenson  A.  Blackwood,  Esq.,  is  the  Treasurer  of  our  Institute. 
The  accounts  are  audited  weekly  by  Messrs.  Theodore  Jones,  Hill 
&  Co.,  Finsbuiy  Circus,  and  a  balance  sheet  is  published  with  list 
of  donations  annually.  Our  own  services  and  superintendence  are 
given  gratuitously  to  this  work,  so  that  we  feel  free  to  plead  its  cause 
with  others.  It  is  always  in  need  of  help,  having  no  reserve  funds 
to  fall  back  upon. 

Contributions  will  be  received  with  thanksgivings  to  God.  They 
may  be  sent  to  the  Treasurer,  Stevenson  A.  Blackwood,  Esq.,  or 
to  the  Hon.  Director,  H.  Grattan  Guinness,  F.R.G.S.,  Harley 
House,  Bow,  E.  Cheques  should  be  crossed  to  the  London  & 
South-western  Bank,  and  P. O.O.  made  payable  at  the  General  Post 
Office. 


CJpjpter  VI. 

SOLEMN    QUESTIONS. 

"  Why  stand  ye  here  all  the  day  idle?"  asked  the  husbandman  in 
the  parable,  addressing  the  unemployed  labourers  in  the  market- 
place. 

Young  Christians,  let  me  repeat  the  question  to  you :  "  Why  stand 
ye  here  all  the  day  idle  ?  "  Is  it  not  a  strange,  unreasonable  thing  to 
do,  and  especially  to  do  in  harvest  time?  Is  not  he  that  sleeps  in 
harvest  a  son  that  causes  shame  ? 

Again — Why  stand  you  here  all  the  day  idle  ?  If  others  choose  to 
be  so  foolish,  why  you  ? 

Why  stand  you  here  all  the  day  idle  ?  wasting  your  time  in  the 
the  market-place  while  the  vineyard  is  crying  out  for  labourers  ? 
Why  are  you  working  in  Protestant  lands  while  a  thousand  millions 
of  the  heathen  have  never  yet  heard  of  Christ  ? 

Why  stand  you  here  all  the  day  idle  ?  The  night  is  coming  when 
no  man  can  work  ;  the  day  is  already  far  spent ;  the  end  of  the  age 
is  fast  approaching.  The  Church  has  idled  only  too  long  already. 
You  have  lost  too  much  time ;  are  you  going  to  waste  the  whole 
day?  It  is  1,800  years  since  Jesus  sent  His  disciples  to  evangelize 
the  world,  and  only  one  in  three  have  as  yet  heard  the  gospel. 

Why  stand  ye  here  all  the  day  idle  ?  Is  it  profitable  ?  Will  it 
pay?  Is  it  even  enjoyable?  Is  it  manly?  Is  it  worthy  of  a  Chris- 
tian ?  Will  not  an  idle  man  be  a  poor  one  ?  Oh  !  why  stand  all  the 
day  idle  ? 

You  resent  the  question?  You  reply  mentally  :  "Idle?  That  is 
an  ugly  word  !  It  does  not  apply  to  me  at  any  rate.  I  toil  at  my 
rightful  business  from  Monday  morning  till  Saturday  night,  and  take 
little  rest,  even  on  Sunday ;  for  not  only  do  I  attend  a  place  of  wor- 
ship regularly,  and  teach  in  the  Sunday  school,  but  I  often  preach 
in  the  open  air  or  in  the  mission  hall  besides.  No  one  can  fairly 
call  me  idle.     I  have  my  faults,  but  idleness  is  not  one  of  them." 

Do  not  be  too  sure  about  that.  Remember  there  are  two  sorts  of 
idleness :  idleness  absolute,  and  idleness  relative.    To  fell  trees  the 


240  We  may  be  Busy— yet  Idle  ! 

livelong  day,  for  instance,  is  not  to  be  idle,  but  industrious,  under 
certain  circumstances.  For  the  Canadian  settler  in  winter  time  it  is  a 
most  suitable  'occupation,  but  for  Gladstone,  when  prime  minister  of 
England,  to  have  passed  his  days  in  felling  trees  during  the  pressure 
of  a  parliamentary  session — fond  as  he  is  of  the  work — would  have 
been  sheer  and  inexcusable  idleness.  He  would  have  blamed  him- 
self as  much  as  the  world  would  have  blamed  him,  if  he  had  frittered 
away  in  such  labour  a  single  week  of  the  precious  time  that  belonged 
to  the  nation. 

It  is  possible  to  be  idle  and  yet  be  fully  occupied ;  to  neglect 
one's  paramount  duty  while  yet  employing  every  moment  of  one's 
time. 

A  gentleman  leaves  home  and  commits  to  a  tutor  the  charge  of 
his  sons'  education,  to  his  private  secretary  that  of  his  correspon- 
dence and  accounts,  to  his  gardener  the  care  of  his  greenhouse  and 
vineries,  and  to  his  groom  the  responsibility  of  his  fine  stud  of  horses. 
During  his  absence  the  tutor  devotes  himself  to  practising  music,  the 
secretary  spends  all  his  time  in  close  study,  the  gardener  takes  to 
fishing,  and  the  groom  to  shooting;  all  four  men  may  be  busily 
engrossed  with  their  respective  avocations,  and  yet  all  may  be 
absolutely  idle  as  far  as  the  master's  service  is  concerned.  The  boys 
run  wild,  the  correspondence  is  neglected,  the  accounts  get  into 
confusion,  the  gardens  and  vineries  are  ruined,  and  the  horses  are 
half  starved  !  The  men  are  busy  all  the  day,  nor  is  there  any 
harm  in  their  pursuits ;  but  as  regards  their  peculiar  duties  they  are 
idle. 

Young  Christian,  is  it  possible  that  it  may  be  thus  with  you  ?  Can 
it  be  that  your  industry  and  diligence  are  running  in  wrong  channels, 
and  so  are,  in  result,  mere  idleness  ?  Would  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
after  watching  all  your  secular  and  sacred  engagements  the  week 
through,  and  observing  that  you  are  really  busy  all  the  time,  address 
to  you  nevertheless,  in  sad,  reproachful  tones,  the  question,  "  Why 
Stand  ye  here  all  the  day  idle  ?  Working,  but  not  where  you  are 
needed — in  My  vineyard ;  toiling,  but  not  in  the  best  way — in  My 
service ;  busy,  but  not  about  My  Father's  business  ;  industrious  in 
a  sense,  but,  as  far  as  regards  the  spread  of  My  kingdom,  idle  !  " 
Consider!  is  it  not  idle  to  waste  time  in  trivial  occupations  when 
we  are  charged  with  serious  responsibilities,  or  to  employ  only  our 
lowest  powers  and  talents  and  leave  our  higher  ones  unused  ? 

For  a  Michelangelo,  who  could  plan  and  erect  a  St.   Peter's,  to 


Hoiv  can  we  best  seme  God?  241 

spend  his  life  in  rough  hewing  blocks  of  marble,  would  it  not  have 
been  a  sin  and  a  shame?  For  a  Duke  of  Wellington,  who  could 
direct  a  battle  or  arrange  a  campaign,  to  devote  his  energies  to 
serving  a  gun  or  commanding  a  regiment,  would  it  not  have  been 
wasteful  folly  ?  For  Peter,  James,  and  John  to  have  continued  their 
fishing  after  receiving  from  the  risen  Saviour  their  great  commission, 
or  for  Paul  to  have  retained  tent-making  as  his  life's  main  business 
after  his  conversion,  would  it  not  have  been  sinful  waste  of  precious 
time,  as  well  as  sinful  disobedience  ?  And  without  being  either  an 
eminent  genius  or  a  divinely  commissioned  apostle,  many  a  Christian 
man  and  woman  may  be  in  danger  of  similar  folly  and  sin.  They 
may  be  spending  the  one  life  God  has  given  them  to  live  for  Him, 
in  doing  work  of  a  kind  different  from  that  which  their  Master 
intended,  qualified,  and  commanded  them  to  do ;  of  a  lower  and 
less  important  description  than  that  for  which  they  are  competent 
and  consequently  responsible.  Such  persons,  however  busy,  are  idle. 
Let  no  one  assume :  "  I  am  not  one  of  them  !  I  have  no  talents  to 
waste  !  My  abilities  and  opportunities  are  alike  small,  my  educa- 
tion imperfect,  my  leisure  scanty,  seeing  I  have  to  earn  my  bread  ; 
my  influence  is  very  limited,  and  my  experience  slight :  what  can  I 
do  ?  Nothing  but  what  I  am  doing  !  There  is  no  fear  of  my  wasting 
time  in  trivial  occupation,  for  I  am  fit  for  nothing  else." 

It  may  be  so  !  It  is  well  not  to  think  of  ourselves  more  highly 
than  we  ought  to  think.  On  the  other  hand,  we  are  commanded 
to  think  soberly,  according  as  God  hath  dealt  to  every  man  the 
measure  of  faith  and  gift  and  grace.  It  is  possible  to  think  too 
lowly  as  well  as  too  highly  of  our  own  capabilities  and  resources. 
Moses  and  Jeremiah  did  so,  and  tried  to  excuse  themselves  from 
high  and  holy  service  by  self-depreciation.  Let  us,  at  least,  be  very 
sure  we  are  right  before  we  decide  the  question  that  we  can  render 
to  Him  who  died  for  us  no  more  effectual  service  than  we  are 
actually  rendering  now.  Let  us  take  stock  of  our  resources,  and  see 
if  each  talent  is  indeed  invested  to  the  best  advantage ;  perchance 
we  may  find  one  at  least  laid  up  in  a  napkin  to  condemn  us  on  the 
day  of  account.  The  danger  that  such  should  be  the  case  is  great 
in  proportion  to  the  fewness  of  the  talents  committed  to  us.  The 
slothful  servant  was  not  the  one  to  whom  ten  talents  had  been 
entrusted,  but  the  man  who  had  only  one.  This  should  be  a  warning 
to  those  who  think  their  own  capabilities  and  opportunities  small. 
It  is  a  true  proverb,  "  Nobody  knows  what  they  can  do  till  they  try." 


242  Power  means  Responsibility. 

There  is  a  vast  amount  of  talent  latent  in  multitudes  of  Christian 
men  and  women  that  needs  to  be  called  out  and  developed,  and 
that  can  be  so  by  the  grace  and  power  of  God.  Peter,  James,  and 
John  might  have  made  the  same  excuse  !  They  might  have  said, 
"  Who  and  what  are  we,  unlearned  and  ignorant  Galilrean  fishermen, 
that  we  should  undertake  to  turn  the  world  upside  down  and  found 
a  faith  that  shall  spread  all  over  the  face  of  the  earth  and  endure  to 
the  end  of  time  ?  " 

The  fact  is,  that  if  God  calls  and  commissions  a  man  in  His  service, 
the  result  depends  on  Divine  power  far  more  than  on  human  adapta. 
tion.  He  selects  instruments  suited  to  His  purpose  of  course,  for 
even  human  wisdom  would  do  this,  much  more  Divine ;  but  the 
adaptation  may  not  be  obvious  either  to  a  man  himself  or  to  others. 
Having  chosen  and  called  a  man,  God  can  capacitate  him  for  His 
service,  working  in  him  to  will  and  to  do  His  good  pleasure.  The 
great  thing  is  to  be,  not  only  willing  to  yield  ourselves  to  God  for 
His  service,  but  anxious  to  be  called  of  Him  to  it ;  resolved  not  to 
be  useless  and  idle,  but  ambitious  of  distinguished  usefulness.  Power 
will  come  with  practice ;  to  him  that  hath  shall  be  given,  and  he 
shall  have  more  abundantly. 

But  there  are  many  who  estimate  perhaps  quite  fairly  and  suffi- 
ciently their  own  powers,  but  who  over-estimate  the  work  in  which 
they  are  engaged,  and  think  of  it  more  highly  than  they  ought  to 
think  ;  so  that  they  content  themselves  with  what  they  are  doing, 
instead  of  undertaking  the  more  important  work  which  lies  ready  to 
their  hands.  This  again  is  a  sore  evil,  leading  to  loss  of  precious 
power.  It  is  a  good  thing  to  manage  a  mission  station,  and  teach 
a  school  of  heathen  children,  for  example.  But  if  David  Living- 
stone had  been  content  to  do  this  all  his  days,  Central  Africa  would 
not  have  been  opened,  its  horrible  slave-trade  would  not  have  been 
extinguished,  and  the  gospel  brought  within  reach  of  its  myriads. 
We  have  no  right  to  rest  satisfied  even  with  a  good  work,  if  we  are 
able  for  a  better.  All  our  powers  ought  to  be  enlisted,  and  that  to  the 
utmost  in  the  service  of  God.  All  we  can  do  we  are  bound  to  do. 
To  offer  less  than  our  best  is  to  insult  the  majesty  of  heaven  ! 
Jesus  did  all  He  could  do  for  us.  He  not  only  loved  us,  but  lived 
for  us  and  died  for  us,  gave  even  to  His  last  garment  and  His  own 
heart's  blood  !  Can  we  be  content  to  serve  Him  merely  with  a  part 
of  our  powers  ?  To  undertake  for  him  only  easy  work,  and  to  keep 
back  part  of  the  price?     God  forbid  ! 


"  Ye  shall  be  Witnesses  unto  Me"  243 

What  then  is,  or  should  be,  the  great  end  and  object  in  life  of 
every  true  disciple  of  Christ  ? 

Not  to  earn  a  living  ;  not  to  get  on  in  the  world  ;  not  to  win  power, 
wealth,  or  influence ;  not  to  enjoy  life  and  help  others  to  do  the 
same ;  not  to  marry  and  bring  up  a  family  respectably  :  not  any  of 
these  things  should  be  his  primary  or  principal  care,  his  end  and  aim 
in  life. 

Christ  has  forbidden  His  followers  to  make  any  of  these  things 
their  object.  "  But  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  His 
righteousness  ;  and  all  these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you." 

Note,  the  Lord  does  not  say  we  are  not  to  seek  these  things  at 
all,  but  He  does  say  we  are  to  seek  something  else  before  them,  and 
that  something  else  is  not  our  own  personal  salvation  (that  is  already 
secured  if  we  are  believers),  but  the  salvation  of  others,  the  extension 
of  the  kingdom  of  God  among  men,  the  spread  of  His  righteousness 
on  earth.  "'Seek  ye  first"  these  things,  says  the  Saviour,  and  all 
other  needful  things  shall  be  added  unto  you.  Those  things  which 
are  last  in  the  world's  estimation  are  to  be  first  in  ours,  and  vice 
versa. 

During  His  life  our  Lord  clearly  explained  to  His  disciples  what 
He  had  called  them  for,  and  what  their  life  work  on  earth  was  to  be. 
"  Ye  shall  be  witnesses  unto  Me,"  He  said  to  them  ;  and  speaking  of 
them  to  His  Father  in  heaven  He  declared,  "As  Thou  hast  sent  Me 
into  the  world,  even  so  have  I  sent  them  into  the  world."  He  had 
come  to  declare  God's  name  and  character  to  men,  and  He  sent 
His  disciples  to  declare  His  name  and  character,  His  person  and 
work,  to  testify  for  Him  on  earth. 

After  His  death  and  resurrection  He  confirmed  this  as  their 
vocation,  saying  to  them,  just  prior  to  His  ascension,  "  Ye  shall 
receive  power,  after  that  the  Holy  Ghost  is  come  upon  you  :  and  ye 
shall  be  witnesses  unto  Me  ...  in  Judaea,  and  in  Samaria,  and 
unto  the  uttermost  part  of  the  earth." 

His  last  great  commission  defined  still  more  plainly  their  work  : 
"  Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  proclaim  the  glad  tidings  to  every 
creature."  They  were  to  herald  everywhere  and  to  all  the  tidings  of 
forgiveness  of  sin  through  the  atoning  work  accomplished  by  their 
Lord.  The  apostles  realized  their  responsibilities, 'and  felt  them- 
selves to  be  primarily,  not  fishermen  or  tent-makers  or  tax-gatherers 
but  "  ambassadors  lor  Christ,"  witnesses  for  Him,  men  whose  one 
great,  sole  "object  was  to  establish  and  extend  the  kingdom  of  God 
by  spreading  a  knowledge  of  Christ  through  the  world. 


244  We  cannot  all  be  Preachers, 

Nor  was  it  to  the  apostles  officially  that  the  great  commission  was 
given.  The  twelve  could  not  go  into  all  the  world,  nor  preach  the 
gospel  to  unborn  generations.  It  was  given  to  them  as  representa- 
tives of  the  entire  Church;  the  lapse  of  1,800  years  has  made  no 
difference  in  the  Church's  duty,  and  no  difference  consequently  in 
the  duty  of  each  individual  disciple.  To  His  young  disciples  in 
England,  Scotland,  Ireland,  and  America  in  the  nineteenth  century 
this  commission  of  Christ  extends,  as  much  as  to  His  early  Jewish 
disciples  in  the  first  century,  otherwise  He  would  be  without  wit- 
nesses now. 

The  special,  proper,  peculiar  work  of  the  Church  in  the  world 
therefore  is  to  spread  a  knowledge  of  Christ  and  of  His  gospel  among 
men  the  whole  earth  over.  The  Church  accomplishes  this  work 
through  her  members  ;  her  work  is  the  work  of  each  and  all.  That 
Christian  who  does  not  directly  or  indirectly  live  for  this  object  primarily, 
who  does  not  keep  the  spread  of  the  gospel  before  him  as  his  main  end 
and  aim  in  life,  misses  the  very  object  of  his  existence  on  earth  as 
a  Christian.  He  is  not  a  witness,  not  an  ambassador,  not  a  labourer 
together  with  God.  He  is,  as  regards  the  vineyard,  standing  all  the 
day  idle,  however  busy  he  may  be.  He  is  not  doing  the  work  his 
Master  has  given  him  to  do,  however  great  his  activities ;  he  is,  as 
regards  the  special,  peculiar  work  of  the  Church,  idle  ! 

We  are  made  "  meet  to  be  partakers  of  the  inheritance  of  the 
saints  in  light,"  when  we  are  converted  and  made  new  creatures  in 
Christ ;  we  might  as  well  go  to  heaven  at  once  if  the  Master  had 
not  a  work  for  us  to  do  on  earth.  The  healed  demoniac  prayed  that 
he  might  go  with  Jesus  and  stay  with  Him  evermore.  Howbeit 
Jesus  suffered  him  not,  though  He  too  would  have  loved  to  have 
with  Him  the  trophy  of  His  grace.  He  sent  him  nevertheless  to  his 
home  and  friends,  to  be  a  witness  for  his  Deliverer.  "  Go  home  to 
thy  friends,  and  tell  them  how  great  things  the  Lord  hath  done  for 
thee,  and  hath  had  compassion  on  thee."  And  similarly,  though  He 
prays,  "  Father,  I  will  that  those  whom  Thou  hast  given  Me  be  with 
Me  where  I  am,"  yet  He  waits  for  the  answer  to  this  petition,  and 
suffers  us  not  to  go  to  Him,  in  order  that  we  may  first  act  as  wit- 
nesses to  Him  and  ambassadors  for  Him  to  a  world  that  knows 
Him  not. 

But  you  say  :  "  We  cannot  all  be  preachers  of  Christ ;  if  we  were, 
there  would  be  no  congregations  !  It  is  hard  indeed  to  find  room 
for  all  the  preachers  and  teachers  that  exist  already.    There  is  neither 


Protestant  Lands  not  all  the    World.  245 

room  nor  need  for  me  !  With  so  many  far  better  qualified  than  I  am 
for  the  work,  there  is  no  occasion  for  me  to  come  forward.  That  is 
really  why  I  do  no  more.     I  am  not  wanted" 

This  excuse  is  really  considered  a  valid  one  by  many;  and  it 
Protestant  countries  comprised  the  whole  world,  there  would  be 
something  in  it !  There  are  of  course  multitudes  of  unsaved  souls 
still  to  be  found  in  these  lands,  but  there  are  few  indeed  who  have 
not  heard  the  gospel,  and  none  who  are  unable  to  hear  it  if  they 
wished.  The  proportion  of  Christian  workers  among  the  population, 
both  in  town  and  in  the  country,  is  very  large — so  large  indeed  that 
they  are  in  many  places  actually  in  each  other's  way. 

But  Great  Britain  and  other  Protestant  lands  are  not  all  the  world, 
but  are  in  this  respect  unlike  every  other  part  of  it ;  and  if  Christian 
preachers  abounded  everywhere  as  they  do  here,  there  might  be  no 
need  for  you  to  become  a  witness  for  Christ  We  have  shown  you 
how  far  this  is  from  being  the  case.  Each  little  square  of  these  1,424 
represents  a  million — that  is,  a  thousand  thousand — human  beings ; 
and  these  degrees  of  light  and  these  varying  depths  of  shadow,  with 
this  immense  preponderance  of  unrelieved  blackness,  indicate  accu- 
rately the  proportion  of  moral  and  spiritual  light  among  the  men  and 
women  of  our  own  generation. 

How  many  witnesses  for  Christ  are  there  among  this  mass  ?  Are 
they  so  numerous  that  the  greater  part  of  them  must  needs  stand 
idle  for  want  of  work  to  do  ? 

Consider !  We  cannot  expect  to  find  any  among  the  heathen  who 
never  heard  of  Christ,  nor  among  the  Mohammedans  who  reject  Him, 
nor  among  the  apostate  Churches  which  acknowledge  other  media- 
tors, and  withhold  the  word  of  life  from  the  people.  Only  in  the 
Protestant  Churches  is  the  faith  of  Christ  held  in  any  degree  of 
purity,  hence  it  is  only  amongst  them  that  we  can  expect  to  find  with 
nesses  for  Him.  And  some  even  of  them,  notably  the  Church  of  the 
land  of  Luther,  have  sunk  into  dead  formalism  or  barren  rationalism, 
so  that  they  need  to  be  again  evangelized  themselves,  instead  of 
being  able  to  evangelize  others;  while  everywhere,  even  in  Protestant 
countries,  the  true  and  living  disciples  are  a  little  flock  in  the  midst 
of  a  mass  of  professors. 

The  superabundance  of  workers  then  is  simply  local;  the  condi- 
tion of  the  world  precludes  the  possibility  of  there  being  one  single 
witness  for  Christ  to  spare.  Statistics  alone  prove  that  no  one  can 
fairly  allege  as  an  excuse  cr  standing  idle  that  the  vineyard  has  too 


246  An  Appeal  to  Parents. 

many  labourers,  that  the  harvest  can  well  be  gathered  without  his 
help.  The  mass  of  mankind  is  of  course  immensely  larger  than  it 
was  in  apostolic  days,  and  its  evangelization  demands  a  far  larger 
number  of  ambassadors  for  Christ  than  that  which  turned  the  world 
upside  down  and  overthrew  the  idolatry  of  the  Roman  empire  in  the 
early  centuries  of  the  Church's  history.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  true 
Christians  were  never  so  numerous  in  the  world  as  they  are  this  day, 
and  it  is  easier  for  them  to  travel  and  dwell  among  the  heathen  in 
every  corner  of  the  earth  than  ever  it  was  before.  The  printed 
gospel  exists  in  hundreds  of  languages,  and  the  Church  has  never 
been  so  rich  in  material  resources.  There  is  no  question  that  living 
Christians  could  give  the  gospel  to  their  own  generation  if  they  tried. 
The  demand  for  labourers  is  enormous,  but  the  supply  is  equal  to 
meet  it,  if  only  every  man  and  woman  who  could  and  should  be  a 
missionary  would  become  such. 

Again  then,  young  disciple  of  the  blessed  Saviour,  why  stand 
you  all  the  day  idle  ?  Do  you  not  love  the  Lord  Jesus  enough  to 
be  anxious  to  show  and  prove  your  devotion  to  Him?  Love  delights 
to  give  itself  to  the  loved  one.  Have  you  no  desire  to  give  yourself 
to  Christ  for  gospel  service  among  the  heathen  ?  It  will  involve  the 
pain  of  parting  with  cherished  friends  ;  involve  the  enduring  of  hard- 
ness, possibly  even  of  suffering,  sickness,  and  death.  Perhaps  !  But 
what  then  ?  "  If  we  suffer,  we  shall  also  reign  with  Him."  Do  we 
not  rejoice  to  suffer  for  those  we  love  ?  Did  Paul  think  much  ot 
what  he  gave  up,  or  of  what  he  endured  for  Christ's  sake  or  the 
gospel's  ?  Did  he  not  speak  of  it  as  a  privilege  granted  to  Christians, 
not  only  to  believe  on  Jesus,  but  also  to  suffer  for  His  sake  ? 

And  you,  Christian  fathers  and  mothers,  what  are  you  doing  with 
your  Christian  children  ?  Have  you  given  your  sons  to  God,  and 
to  His  work  in  the  world  ?  Have  you  devoted  your  daughters  to 
Jesus  and  to  His  service  ? 

Ah,  your  hearts  quail  1  Anything,  you  say,  anything  but  that ! 
We  will  double  our  contributions,  treble  them,  if  we  can,  but  to 
make  our  own  children  missionaries,  surely  we  are  not  called  to  that ! 
Dear  friends,  I  have  only  one  answer  :  "  God  so  loved  the  world,  that 
He  gave  His  Son."  Oh,  mark  it  !  His  Son,  nothing  less  !  No  one 
less  !  His  Son.  Yes  ;  He  gave  that  only  begotten  and  well-beloved 
One  that  dwelt  in  His  bosom  from  all  eternity  !  And  He  gave  Him, 
not  to  be  a  missionary — ah,  no  ! — but  to  be  a  murdered  victim,  to 
be  sin  for  us,  to  be  a  curse.     He  gave  Him  to  shame  and  spitting, 


Need  of  Spiritual  Exercise.  247 

to  blows  and  to  blood,  to  crucifixion  and  to  death.  And  that  Son 
gave  Himself  to  all  this,  and  delighted  to  do  so  for  our  sakes.  And 
we — oh,  shall  we  grudge  Him  our  sons  and  our  daughters  ?  Where 
is  our  gratitude,  where  our  love  ?  Do  we  know  what  devotedness 
means  ?  How  can  we  talk  of  "  the  higher  Christian  life,"  and  be 
bringing  up  our  converted  children  to  live  lives  of  ease  and  idleness, 
or  to  labour  merely  for  their  daily  bread,  to  seek  food  and  raiment, 
to  live  as  if  there  were  no  heathen  world  perishing  for  lack  of  the 
bread  from  heaven  ? 

I  solemnly  believe  that  one  great  cause  of  the  low  tone  of  Christian 
life,  over  which  the  Church  mourns  so  often,  is  the  lack  of  missionary 
zeal,  the  non-cultivation  of  the  missionary  spirit  in  Christian  families, 
and  that  the  first  symptom  of  a  really  "higher  Christian  life"  will 
be  a  revival  of  this  spirit.  It  has  been  so  in  the  past.  The  revival 
of  spiritual  religion  in  our  land  in  the  last  century  was  the  birthday 
of  missionary  enterprise.  Its  growth  has  kept  pace  with  the 
extension  of  such  enterprise,  and  its  increase,  if  such  is  to  come 
(and  God  grant  it  may  !)  must  be  accompanied  by  a  great  increase  of 
missionary  efforts.  In  the  nature  of  things  this  must  be  so.  In  the 
physical  world  we  have  first  life,  then  food,  thereby  growth,  and 
with  growth,  exercise.  But  given  life,  food,  growth,  and  no  exercise, 
disease  and  decay  must  ensue.  If  the  Christian  Church  would 
thrive,  she  must  have  exercise,  and  her  Christ-appointed  exercise  is 
the  evangelization  of  the  world.  The  Church  ought  to  be  one  great 
missionary  society,  and  each  of  her  children,  directly  or  indirectly,  a 
missionary. 

But  what  is  the  fact  ?  A  few  individuals  take  a  real  interest  in 
this  great  work.  They  influence  others  to  help;  but  the  mass  of 
believers  remain  comparatively  inert.  Have  we  not  thousands  and 
tens  of  thousands  of  Christian  families,  no  one  of  which  ever  contributed 
one  single  labourer  to  the  heathen  field  ?  Have  we  not  parents  who 
have  reared  six,  eight,  or  it  may  be  ten  sons  and  daughters,  and  seen 
them  by  grace  converted  to  God,  and  who  yet  never  trained,  or 
attempted  to  train,  one  of  them  for  a  missionary  to  the  heathen  ?  Is 
it  not  a  standing  reproach  to  our  Christianity  that  so  few,  so  very 
few,  gentlemen  and  ladies  of  independent  means  ever  consecrate 
either  themselves  or  their  families  to  the  service  of  Christ  anions 

O 

the  heathen  ? 

O  friends,  lay  the  facts  of  the  case  to  heart,  I  do  entreat  you 
On  the   one  hand,  the  world  lying  in  darkness,  and   heathendom 


248  What  Missionaries  they  miglit  have  Made  ! 

especially  in  gross  darkness,  contrary  to  the  express  will  of  Christ ; 
on  the  other  hand,  Christian  parents  training  up  their  families  to 
anything,  everything,  save  and  except  the  one  work  commanded  by 
Christ,  "Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every 
creature."  What  a  mournful  spectacle  for  the  angels  to  weep  over  ! 
And  what  is  the  result?  Not  only  that  the  heathen  perish,  but, 
O  Christian  parents  !  you  and  your  children,  those  very  children 
whom  ye  would  fain  spare  suffering,  suffer,  suffer  most  materially, 
from  this  very  thing. 

Father,  what  makes  your  heart  heavy  this  day  ?  "  Ah  !"  you  sigh, 
"  our  precious  boy,  whom  we  thought  to  be  converted  years  ago,  has 
gone  right  out  into  the  world;  we  see  no  sign  of  grace  in  him  now. 
We  pray,  and  weep,  and  hope  against  hope,  but  we  seem  to  have  no 
influence  over  him."  Ah!  father,  whose  fault  is  that?  What  did 
you  do  with  your  boy  when  full  of  his  first  love  ?  You  sent  him  to  a 
public  school  perhaps  ;  you  sought  great  things  for  him  in  this  life  ; 
you  exposed  him  to  temptation  for  the  sake  of  mammon,  it  may  be  ; 
you  led  him  to  seek  first  this  world  and  its  interests,  instead  of  the 
kingdom  of  God  and  His  righteousness  ;  you  never  attempted  to 
use  your  mighty  parental  influence  to  lead  the  ardent  youth  to  con- 
secrate his  life  to  preaching  Christ  to  the  perishing  heathen.  You 
never  gave  him  a  Christian  object  worthy  and  likely  to  fill  his  heart, 
and  mould  his  life,  and  engage  his  affections,  and  ennoble  his  aspira- 
tions, and  extend  his  views  out  into  eternity.  Your  son  might  have 
been  a  Brainerd,  or  a  Livingstone,  had  you  acted  otherwise  ;  but  he 
is — well,  you  know  what  he  is  ! 

And  you,  mother,  what  saddens  your  eye,  and  sinks  your  heart  ? 
Your  daughters,  have  they  turned  out  as  you  could  desire  ?  "  Alas  ! 
no,"  you  sigh;  "one  of  them  is  worldly,  though  perhaps  saved; 
another  is  a  confirmed  invalid ;  another,  who  is  a  decided  Christian, 
has  gone  over  to  the  High  Church,  or  perhaps  even  entered  a  Romish 
convent.  You  are  disappointed  in  them,  and  as  a  Christian  you 
ought  to  be.  Ah !  mother,  whose  fault  is  it  ?  Those  girls  were 
Christians  when  young  ;  they  had  talents,  affections,  health,  leisure, 
ardour,  spirits,  zeal,  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  a  good  education. 
What  missionaries  they  would  have  made.' 

Had  their  compassions  been  diawn  out,  the  self-sacrifice,  natural 
to  every  true  disciple,  called  into  play  ;  had  they  been  prepared  for 
and  early  introduced  to  the  mission  field,  what  blessed  helpers  in  the 
gospel  they  might  have  been  !     How  many  an  Indian  zenana  they 


The   Young  need  a  Life-work.  249 

might  have  made  happy  and  holy  !  How  many  a  Japanese  lady 
they  might  have  taught  to  read  the  word  of  Life  !  How  many  a 
miserable  Chinese  mother  might  they  have  led  into  peace  and  joy 
in  believing  !  What  glorious  results  they  might  have  secured  for 
eternity  !  How  every  remembrance  of  each  one  might  cause  you  to 
thank  your  God  for  the  privilege  of  having  been  permitted  to  bear 
and  rear  such  instruments  for  His  glory !  But  you  could  not  spare 
them,  you  could  not  expose  them  to  hardships  and  suffering.  It 
would  never  do  to  send  your  delicately  reared  girls  among  the  de- 
graded and  ignorant  heathen  !  and  so  they  were  doomed  to  the  very 
uninteresting  life  of  a  Christian  young  woman,  with  little  or  nothing 
to  do  ! 

You  would  have  been  glad  they  should  have  served  the  Lord  at 
home,  you  say?  Yes  ;  but  they  did  not  find  occasional  "  amateur  " 
work  of  this  kind  enough  to  engage  heart  and  mind.  Others  were 
doing  it  abundantly.  No  important  responsibility  was  laid  on  them 
to  call  out  their  energies,  develop  their  abilities,  and  exercise  their 
spiritual  graces.  They  had  not  the  stimulus  of  the  urgent  needs  of 
others ;  they  began  perhaps  to  serve  the  Lord  with  one  hand 
daintily;  but  when  difficulties  arose,  or  novelty  wore  off,  they  gave 
it  up,  and  no  one  was  much  the  worse.  That  sort  of  work  does  not 
avail  to  save  the  young  and  energetic  from  worldliness,  selfishness,  ot 
disgust  with  life.  It  is  not  a  vocation  ;  it  is  not  a  life.  It  is  all  very 
well  for  those  who  have  distinct  and  important  secular  duties  de- 
volving on  them  to  serve  the  Lord  by  the  way,  as  it  were,  and  fill 
up  their  odd  moments  of  leisure  by  doing  what  they  can.  But  your 
girls  did  not  marry ;  they  had  not  the  natural  and  absorbing  avo- 
cations of  wife  and  mother ;  they  were  spared  the  sufferings,  and 
cares,  and  self-denial,  and  responsibility  involved  in  bringing  up 
children;  they  had  no  claims  of  business  :  their  time  was  their  own  ; 
they  wanted  a  life-work,  hard,  high,  holy  life-work.  Oh,  had  you 
laid  before  them  the  claims  of  the  heathen,  advised  and  assisted 
them  to  become  missionaries,  how  differently  your  daughters  might 
have  turned  out ! 

The  young  mind  must  have  interests  ;  the  young  heart  must  have 
objects  on  which  to  spend  its  ardour  and  its  affections.  Human 
nature  must  have  difficulties  with  which  to  cope,  hardships  to  en- 
dure, battles  to  fight,  obstacles  to  overcome.  What  are  cricket,  and 
croquet,  and  chess,  and  all  games  of  skill,  but  an  artificial  creation 
of  these  ?  Life,  if  natural  and  well  spent,  is  full  of  these — life  with- 
out them  is  vapid  and  vain 


250  Lack  of  an  Object 

The  lives  of  Christian  young  ladies  are  too  often  deprived  of  all 
interest  by  a  false  and  foolish  parental  affection.  I  once  knew  a 
mother  of  two  of  the  finest  little  girls  I  ever  saw,  who  was  insanely 
anxious  about  their  health.  The  wind  was  never  suffered  to  blow 
on  their  rosy  cheeks  ;  they  were  kept  in  bed  for  days  if  they  chanced 
to  sneeze ;  and  the  mother's  life  was  one  long  misery  for  fear  they 
should  be  ill.  She  succeeded  at  last  in  making  them  ill,  and  soon 
after  she  died  of  over-anxiety.  Then  the  girls,  left  to  themselves, 
got  well.  Now  few  mothers  are  so  foolish  as  to  the  bodies  of  their 
children ;  but  the  characters  of  too  many  are  developed  under 
similarly  unnatural  shelter  and  protection.  It  is  not  natural  for 
a  woman  grown  to  be  an  object  of  tender  parental  care.  The  fully 
fledged  nestling  leaves  the  nest,  and  cares  for  itself,  and  soon  for  its 
young.  If  a  young  woman  does  not  marry,  and  no  special  demand 
for  her  presence  exists  at  home,  she  should  be  allowed,  yea,  en- 
couraged to  devote  her  life  to  some  worthy  object,  not  thwarted,  and 
opposed,  and  restricted  by  petty  conventionalities,  perplexed  by 
finding  her  Bible  teach  self-sacrifice,  and  her  parents  self-preserva- 
tion ;  her  Bible  teach  her  to  despise  the  world  and  earthly  interest, 
and  her  parents  teach  her  to  put  them  in  the  first  place  ! 

Alas  !  friends,  my  heart  aches  when  I  think  of  the  buried  talents 
that  exist  in  the  shape  of  loving,  well-educated,  gifted  daughters, 
pining  in  Christian  families  for  lack  of  an  object  worth  living  for ; 
and  then  think  of  the  miserable  millions  of  their  own  sex  pining 
elsewhere,  and  perishing  for  lack  of  the  knowledge  these  could 
impart  ?  Again  I  ask,  whose  is  the  fault  ?  Dear  fathers  and 
mothers,  does  it  not  lie  at  your  doors  ?  Say  not,  "  We  cannot  make 
our  children  missionaries  ;  God  must  call  them."  I  well  know  that. 
But  do  ye  your  part,  and  be  very  sure  God  will  do  His  !  Lay  your 
children  on  His  altar  from  their  very  birth  •  and  just  as  you  trust 
Him  to  bless  your  efforts  for  their  conversion,  so  trust  Him  to 
accept  your  dedication  of  them  to  His  service,  and  to  bless  your 
endeavours  to  fit  them  for  it.  You  know  you  can  make  them  almost 
what  you  will !  You  know  they  are  this  day  very  much  what  you 
have  made  them  !  You  know  they  come  into  your  hands  plastic  as 
potter's  clay,  blank  as  white  paper,  till  you  trace  the  lines  that  can- 
not be  effaced.  Train  them  for  missionaries  from  their  conversion 
onwards,  and  it  will  be  a  wonder  indeed  if  a  large  Christian  family 
grow  up  without  at  least  one  missionary  in  it. 

And    train    those   who    are    not    fit    for   missionaries   to  support 


Worth  Living  for.  251 

those  that  are.  Put  before  them  a  holy  object  for  money-making. 
Let  the  brother  that  stays  at  home  labour  for  the  brother  that  goes 
forth  as  a  missionary ;  or  you,  father,  ere  you  die,  render  your 
missionary  son  or  daughter  independent  if  you  can.  We  want,  the 
world  wants,  Christ  wants,  not  a  few  hundred  paid  agents,  but  a  whole 
host  of  voluntary  missionaries,  an  army  of  volunteers",  to  invade  the 
realms  of  heathendom.  And  say  not,  dear  mother,  "  I  cannot  part 
with  my  daughter."  Would  you  not  give  her  up  willingly  if  a  suit- 
able offer  of  marriage  presented  itself,  even  though  it  involved  going 
to  India  or  China?  Will  you  give  her  to  man,  and  not  give  her  to 
Christ  ?  Say  not,  "We  cannot  expose  her  to  a  bad  climate,  and  all 
the  risks  and  hardships  of  mission  life."  What !  will  you  deprive 
your  child  of  suffering  with  Christ,  that  she  may  reign  with  Him  ? 
Will  you  rob  her  of  the  opportunity  of  learning  practically  to  rely 
on  God's  all-sufficiency  ?  Will  you  prevent  her  hearing  the  "  Well 
done,  good  and  faithful  servant,"  by-and-by?  This  were  to  act  any- 
thing but  a  parent's  part. 

Far  be  it  from  me  to  say  one  word  to  grieve  Christian  parents 
who  have  done  their  best  to  train  their  children  for  God.  Many 
such  have  nobly  succeeded  ;  and  some  who  have  failed  have  perhaps 
been  more  to  be  pitied  than  blamed.  And  far  be  it  from  me  to 
disparage  the  urgent  claims  of  home  mission  work.  They  lie  before 
our  very  eyes  however,  and  can  in  a  sense  plead  their  own  cause  ', 
and  we  have  a  hundred  home  missionaries,  not  to  say  a  thousand, 
for  every  single  labourer  in  heathen  lands.  And  far  be  it  from  me 
to  think  lightly  of  the  sacred  demands  of  filial  duty.  But  where 
parents  have  many  children,  can  they  not  spare  one  for  Christ's 
work  ?  For  mere  worldly  motives  how  many  a  worldly  parent  spares 
all  !  I  only  plead  with  Christian  parents  that  they  may  consider 
their  ways  in  this  thing.  If  in  this  year  1886  say  one  thousand 
Christian  parents  of  converted  boys  and  girls  now  in  the  schoolroom 
resolved  before  God  to  devote  one  son  or  one  daughter  (if  not 
more)  to  missionary  work,  to  train  them  with  a  view  to  it,  to  endow 
them  with  money  enough  to  provide  them  with  food  and  raiment, 
and  to  send  them  forth  as  soon  as  they  reach  a  suitable  age,  how 
glorious  would  be  the  result  in  ten  years'  time !  A  thousand  well- 
educated,  enthusiastic,  and  independent  young  missionaries  going 
forth  to  preach  Christ  where  He  is  not  yet  named.  And  in  twenty 
years'  time  what  fruit  of  their  labour  should  gladden  the  heart  of  the 
great  Husbandman  !     And  in  fifty  years'  time,  when  the  labourers 


252  The  Church  should  be 

may  all  have  gone  in  to  the  harvest  home,  what  self-multiplying 
native  Churches  in  Africa,  China,  and  Japan  might  be  praising  God 
for  the  lives  and  deaths  of  their  founders ;  and  in  eternity,  what 
multitudes  might  be  added  to  the  white-robed  throng  redeemed  from 
the  earth  ;  and  what  bright  crowns  of  rejoicing  might  for  ever  grace 
the  brows  of  the  sons  and  daughters  thus  consecrated  by  their 
parents  to  missionary  service  ! 

And  if  one  thousand  fathers  so  acted,  the  result  would  soon  be 
that  ten  thousand  would  follow  their  example ;  for  a  good  example  is 
contagious.  Robert  Raikes  founded  one  Sabbath-school,  and  the 
world  is  full  of  them  now.  Oh,  may  the  day  come,  when  universally 
and  naturally  Christian  parents  shall  regard  it  as  one  of  their  greatest 
privileges  and  most  solemn  duties  to  train  one  or  more  of  their 
Christian  children  thus  to  serve  Christ ! 

What  hosts  of  missionaries  would  then  go  forth  annually  from 
England  and  America  !  What  multitudes  of  precious  sheaves  might 
be  reaped  from  the  harvest-fields  of  heathendom  !  What  a  broad 
line  of  demarcation  would  distinguish,  as  it  should,  Christian  from 
worldly  families !  How  many  young  believers  would  be  preserved 
from  backsliding  and  bringing  reproach  on  the  name  of  the  Lord  ! 
How  universal  and  intense  would  missionary  sympathy  become ! 
How  heartfelt  would  be  the  intercession  ascending  from  every  hearth 
at  home  for  the  dear  labourers  abroad  !  How  holy  would  seem  the 
gains  set  apart  for  that  dear  one's  use  !  How  warm  and  lively  would 
be  our  missionary  prayer-meetings  !  What  thousands  of  little  family 
committees  would  supplement  the  labours  of  our  great  society  com- 
mittees !  Why,  the  Church  would  at  last  be  once  more  what  it  was 
at  first,  and  ought  ever  to  have  continued,  one  great  missionary 
society.  May  God  hasten  the  day  when  it  shall  be  such,  and  may 
we  hasten  it  too,  as  far  as  in  us  lies,  for  Jesus'  sake  !     Amen. 

May  we  add  a  closing  word  to  the  stewards  of  God's  gold  and 
silver  ? 

Missions  mean  money  as  well  as  men,  and  some  mean  a  great 
deal. 

Every  ton  of  luggage  carried  from  the  coast  to  Lake  Tanganyika 
means  ,£500.  The  founding  of  the  Congo  Mission  and  its  support 
for  six  years  meant  ^30,000.  Not  all  missions  are  so  expensive  as 
this ;  but  the  Dark  Continent  has  to  be  evangelized,  and  for  many  a 
a  long  year  to  come  it  will  have  to  be  done  at  heavy  cost  of  life  and 
treasure.     Missionaries  may  live  upon  little,  but  they  cannot  live 


one  great  Missionary  Society.  253 

on  nothing.  To  attempt  self-support  is,  as  a  rule,  to  defeat  their  own 
object,  wasting  on  secularities  the  time  and  strength  that  might  be 
devoted  to  teaching  and  preaching  the  Lord  Jesus.  Ought  not  those 
who  cannot  go  to  give,  that  others  may  go  ?  Ought  not  every  man, 
every  woman  who  can  do  so,  to  support  a  representative  among  the 
heathen?  What  shall  we  say  of  the  awful  fact  that  the  royal,  titled, 
and  wealthy  classes  in  England  do  not,  on  an  average,  give  sixpence 
per  annum  to  the  missionary  work  of  the  Church  ! 

We  pray  "  Thy  kingdom  come,  Thy  will  be  done  on  earth,"  etc.  \ 
but 

"God  teach  us  this  and  every  day 
To  live  more  nearly  as  we  pray  !  " 

What  are  we  doing  or  giving  to  hasten  the  advent  of  that  kingdom  ? 
Have  we  ever  worked  with  this  object  till  we  were  weary  ?  Have  we 
ever  even  incurred  a  headache  for  it,  much  less  a  fever?  Have  we 
ever  spent  a  sleepless  night  of  thought,  of  prayer,  of  sympathy  ?  Have 
your  hearts  ever  ached  or  your  eyes  wept  over  the  sins  and  sorrows 
of  the  heathen  ?  Has  your  compassion  for  them  in  any  way  altered 
your  lives?  Have  you  ever  denied  yourselves  some  legitimate 
indulgence  that  you  might  help  missions  more  effectually?  Have 
you  honestly  given  even  your  first  fruits  and  tithes  to  God  for  His 
service  ?  How  do  your  lives  ever  since  you  were  converted  bear  the 
test  of  Christ's  words,  "  Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  "—i.e.  the  spread 
of  the  kingdom — "  of  God  "  ? 

And  yet  this  was  what  Jesus  did  !  This  is  the  standard  by  which 
we  shall  be  tried  at  the  judgment  seat  of  Christ.  This  were  the 
wisest  use  of  time  and  talent,  health  and  wealth ;  for  this  is  investing 
for  eternity. 

Fully  do  some  of  the  Master's  stewards  realize  their  responsibility ; 
right  nobly  do  they  use  their  resources  ;  and  never  will  they  regret 
consecrating  their  substance  to  this  cause.  We  have  known  a  servant 
surrender,  for  the  privilege  of  helping  missions,  the  savings  of  a 
lifetime  of  hard  work,  laid  by  against  sickness  or  old  age,  saying,  "  I 
may  never  need  it;  the  Lord  will  take  care  of  me."  The  Lord 
estimates  the  value  of  our  donations,  not  by  what  we  give,  but  by 
what  we  retain.  Are  we  each  doing  all  we  might  for  the  spread  of 
the  gospel  ? 

We  have  no  fires  of  martyrdom  now  to  test  our  fidelity  to  Jesus 
Christ ;  but  we  are  not  left  without  a  test.     God  is  testing  us  all 

R 


254  Continually  tested. 

continually,  as  to  the  measure  of  our  faith,  love,  and  devotedness 
to  His  Son,  by  the  presence  of  one  thousand  millions  of 
heathen  in  the  world.  It  is  a  tremendous  test  !  so  real,  so 
practical  ! 

It  is  no  trifle,  no  myth,  no  theory,  no  doubtful  contingency,  but 
a  great,  awful  fact,  that  we  Protestant  Christians,  who  rejoice  in 
our  rich  gospel  blessings,  and  claim  to  be  the  followers  of  Him 
who  gave  up  heavenly  glory,  earthly  ease,  and  life  itself,  to  save 
these  heathen,  are  actually  surrounded  by  one  thousand  millions  of 
brothers  and  sisters  who  must  perish  in  their  sins,  unless  they  receive 
the  gospel. 

This  gospel  they  have  never  yet  heard  !  This  is  a  fact  too  many 
forget,  but  a  fact  none  can  deny ;  a  fact  of  which  we  dare  not 
pretend  to  be  ignorant ;  a  fact  that  ought  to  influence  our  whole 
Christian  course  from  the  moment  of  conversion  ;  a  fact  that  ought 
to  shape  on?'  plans  and  prospects  and  purposes  in  life. 

It  tests  our  faith.  Do  we  believe  that  "  idolaters  shall  have 
their  part  in  the  lake  which  burnetii  with  fire  and  brimstone — the 
second  death"?  Do  we  believe  that  "the  gospel  is  the  power  of 
God  to  salvation  "  ?  Where  then  are  the  works  wrought  in  us  by 
our  faith  in  these  truths  ?  What  do  we  to  turn  idolaters  to  the  wor- 
ship of  the  true  and  living  God  ?  What  do  we  to  carry  to  them  the 
gospel  which  can  save  them  ? 

It  tests  our  love.  "  If  ye  love  Me,  keep  My  commandments," 
said  our  Master :  and  His  last  commandment  was,  that  we  should 
preach  the  gospel  to  these  heathen.  Judged  by  our  obedience  to 
//,  how  much  do  we  love  Him  ?  And  how  much  do  we  love  these 
poor  neighbours,  stripped  and  robbed,  and  cruelly  handled  by  the 
devil,  and  left  half  dead  in  our  path  ?  What  oil  and  wine  have  we 
poured  into  their  wounds  ?  What  efforts  for  their  recovery  have  we 
made  ?  We  ought  to  love  each  one  as  ourselves.  Has  the  aggre- 
gate of  our  love  for  the  whole  thousand  millions  ever  led  us  to 
endure  a  single  suffering,  or  to  deny  ourselves  a  single  indulgence, 
for  their  sake  ? 

It  tests  our  devotedness.  Hearts  wholly  given  to  Jesus  would 
lead  us  to  long  that  His  wishes  should  be  gratified,  His  desires 
fulfilled.  What  are  those  wishes  and  desires  ?  Let  His  life,  His 
death  reply.  That  all  should  return,  repent,  and  live  ;  that  the 
lost  should  be  found,  and  the  dead  quickened.  If,  knowing  that  a 
thousand  millions  of  our  fellow  creatures  are  still  lost  in  heathenism,  we 


A  Persona/  Question.  255 

make  no  effort  for  their  enlightenment,  how  do  we  show  our  devoted 
attachment  to  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord?  We  devoted  to  Him  !  What, 
even  of  ours,  is  devoted  to  Him  ?  Is  even  a  tithe  of  our  time,  a 
tithe  of  our  substance  devoted  to  Him  ?  Have  we  surrendered  to 
Him  for  this  service  even  one  child  of  our  family,  or  one  year  of  our 
lives  ?  No  ;  but  we  give  an  annual  subscription  to  some  missionary 
society.  Ah,  friends,  gifts  that  cost  us  no  personal  self-denial  are  no 
proofs  of  devotedness  !  Christ's  devotedness  to  our  interests  involved 
Him  in  suffering,  loss,  and  shame,  because  of  the  state  in  which  we 
were  ;  though  hereafter  devotedness  to  us  will  involve  to  Him  only 
joy,  "the  joy  set  before  Him." 

Devotedness  to  Him  now  must  similarly  involve  suffering,  loss, 
and  shame  to  us,  because  of  the  state  of  those  for  whom  He  died  ; 
hereafter  it  will  involve  only  joy  and  honour,  the  bride's  share  of  her 
royal  Bridegroom's  throne.  But  that  time  is  not  yet !  Devotedness, 
consecration  to  Jesus,  in  a  world  tenanted  by  a  thousand  millions  of 
heathen,  means  stem  labour  and  toil,  means  constant  self-denial  and 
self  sacrifice,  means  unwearied  well  doing  even  unto  death. 

Judged  by  this  test,  how  many  faithful,  loving,  and  devoted  fol- 
lowers has  Jesus  Christ  ?     Are  we  of  their  number  ? 


r^L^* 


^ 


APPENDIX. 


<foi  bonbon  Institute, 


HOME  AND   FOREIGN  MISSIONS, 

AND   ENGLISH   AUXILIARY   OF 

THE      LIVINGSTONE      INLAND      MISSION. 


London  Centre  —  Harley  House,  Bow,  E. 

Country  Branch— Hulme  Cliff  College,  Curbar. 
Young  Women's  Branch — Doric   Lodge,   Bow,   London,   E, 

Home  Mission  Centre— Berger  Hall,  Bromley,  E. 


HONORARY       DIRECTOR. 

H.  Gkattan  Guinness,  F.R.G.S. 

TREASURER. 

Stevenson  A.  Blackwood,  Esq.,  C.B. 

BANKERS. 

London  &  South-western  Bank,  Bow  Branch. 

HONORARY    AUDITORS. 

Theodore  Jones,  Hill,  Vellacott  &  Co.,  Finsbury  Circus. 

HONORARY    SECRETARY. 

Mrs.  H.  Grattan  Guinness. 

TRUSTEES. 
Samuel  Morley,  Esq.,  London. 
Theodore  Howard,  Esq.,  Westleigh,  Bickley,  Kent. 
Captain  the  Hon.   R.  Moreton,   Le  Mars,  Iowa,   U.S.A. 
Rev.  J.  Stephens,  Somerset  Villa,   Dartmouth  Park  Hill,  N, 
J.   van  Sommer,  Esq.,  13,    New  Inn,  Strand,  W.C. 
Stevenson  A.  Blackwood,  Esq.,  C.B.,  Shortlands  House,  Bromley. 

REFEREES. 


Rev.  Archibald  G.  Brown,  London. 

W.  T.  BERGER,  Esq.,  Cannes. 

Rev.  Henry  E.  Brooke,  Dovercourt. 

W.  Carruthers,  Esq.,  F. R.S. 

Rev.  Dr.  Culross,  Bristol. 

Rev.  Thain  Davidson,  London. 

('iiari.es  Finlay,  Esq. 

Philip  H.  GosSE.Esq.,  F.R.S.,  Torquay. 

Rev.  S.  Hebditch,  Sydney. 

Theodore  Howard,  Esq.,  London. 

Rev.  David  Lowe,  Glasgow. 

Donald  Matheson,  Esq.,  London. 


Captain  the  Hon.  R.  Moreton. 

Mr.    R.    C.    Morgan,    Editor    of    The 

Christian. 
Samuel  Morley,  Esq. 
The  Rt.  Hon.  Lord  Polwarth. 
Robert  Paton,  Esq.,  London. 
Rev.     Sinclair      Patterson,     M.D., 

London. 
The  Rt.  Hon.  Lord  Radstock. 
Rev.  C.  H.  SPURGEON. 
Rev.  J.  Hudson  Taylor,  China. 
Rev.  Henry  M.  Williamson,  Belfast. 


257 


LIST   OF    MISSIONARIES 

SENT   OUT   FROM    THE 

East  London  Institute  for  Home  and  Foreign  Missions, 

from  1873-1886, 
WITH    THEIR    DESTINATIONS. 

Those  marked  with  an  asterisk  have  already  "  fallen  asleep," 

EUROPE, 

BULGARIA. 

VOLKANOFF,  D. 

FINLAND. 
BjORKENHEIM,  J. 

Makinen,  A. 
Orest,  C.  Otto       * 

FRANCE. 
Benezet,  L. 
Chaigne,  M. 
Chevalley,  C.  A.  G. 
Demouche,  Leonidas. 

Hanneman,  M Taris. 

Maillet,  Adolph. 

Sagnol,  Etienne Taris. 

Saillens,  Reuben ,, 

Serusclat,  L Marseilles. 

Webber,  Marry Taris. 

GERMANY. 
Georgii,  R. 

Rohrbach,  Julius Berlin. 

,,  Mrs ,, 

ITALY. 
Mattei,  G. 

PORTUGAL. 

Menezes,  A.  M.  DE Lisbon. 

ROUMANIA. 
Segall,  T. 

RUSSIA. 

Engvall,  Charles St.  Petersburg. 

Tiieakston,  Joseph  J. 

SICILY. 
Ellery,  S.  J. 

258 


Appendix.  259 

SPAIN. 


Barosso,  M. 

Carrasco,  Senor Madrid. 

Lund,  Eric Barcelona. 

*Previ,  Francisco Fend. 

Ubach,  Carlos Barcelona. 

SWEDEN, 
*Erickson,  A. 

SWITZERLAND. 
Cossy,  A. 

Gerber,  Fritz Berne. 

Kirchner,  Karl , 

UNITED  KINGDOM. 

Abramowitch,  Lewis      ....  London. 

Adams,  John. 

Anderson,  George Lincoln. 

Anderson,  John. 

Angelo,  Dr. 

Appleton,  Thomas  H York. 

Atkinson,  A. 

Bain,  John London. 

Baine,  F.  II. 

Barnett,  II London. 

Baron,  David ,, 

Bartlett,  W. 

Beverley,  J.  E Reading. 

Blount,  Walter  C London. 

Bonsor,  W Derbyshire. 

Bottger,  W London. 

Boyd,  G Blackburn. 

*BRAD13URN,  J London. 

Brand,  James Colchester. 

Brewster,  J.  II Maldon. 

Brooker,  G.  W Manchester. 

Brown,  R London. 

Burns,  Miss  B Manchester. 

Burrows,  C Sheffield. 

Cameron,  J. 

♦Campbell,  Donald Hebrides. 

Campbell,  Miss Surrey. 

Canning,  T London. 

Canton,  W.  J Manchester. 

Chalmers,  John Greenock. 

Clasper,  J Glasgow. 

Cooper,  George  T London. 

Cowens,  F.  E Devizes. 

Cregan,  James Belfast. 

Cruicksiiank,  W Dublin. 

Dann,  F London, 


260  Appendix. 

Davis,  Philip  H Dublin. 

Dixon,  Hudson Hertford. 

Dore,  W London. 

EDNIE,  A Kirkcaldy. 

Ellison,  J.  A Belfast. 

Eyres,  G Berwick. 

Falconer,  W Nairn. 

Fi.emen,  F Derbyshire. 

Flockhart,  John Plymouth. 

GAHAN,  D.  B St.  Albans. 

Gibbins,  Miss London. 

Goode,  F Blackburn. 

Grayett,  Miss Bromsgrove 

Greenhill,  John London. 

Grimson,  Alfred Glasgow. 

Hain,  H Durham. 

Halkier,  W. 

Hall,  T Plymouth. 

Hitch,  Robert London. 

Howie,  James Forfar. 

Hunter,  J. 

Jackman,  J London. 

JOHN,  W.  J Bristol. 

Johnson,  John  George  ....  Aldershot. 

Johnson,  W Carrickfergus. 

Johnston,  F.  E Belfast. 

KALLIGAN,  J Oxfordshire. 

King,  Edmund  George  ....  Luton. 

Lucas,  Bernard     ......  Hertford. 

Marshall,  G London. 

Mateer,  Edward  T Belfast. 

McAleese,  W.  M Manchester. 

McCleery,  James ,, 

McDonald,  A Aberdeenshire. 

McKay,  J..      .' Lancashire. 

McKittrick,  W.  J Bishop  Stortford. 

McLean,  William Banff. 

McLean,  J London. 

McNair,  J.  D. 

Milne,  A.  A Cromartie. 

Montgomery,  Rorert. 

Myers,  Miss London. 

Norwood,  F Nottingham. 

Barker,  John Manchester. 

Pearson,  J.  W Hull. 

Pendlebury,  G London. 

Platt,  G.  E. 

PrIESTNALL,  W Leicester. 

Pritchard,  T.  II. 

RAE,  W.       .      .  .  ....  Galashiels. 


Appendix.  261 

Rattei,  T.  E Essex. 

Robertson,  William ,, 

Roe,  B London. 

Rouse,  W.  E. 

Sanders,  Harry Lincolnshire. 

Shaw,  Richard. 

Silke,  W.  J Bridgewater. 

Thomson,  C Aberdeen. 

Thompson,  A.  W London. 

Towner,  George         ,, 

Usher,  William Staffordshire. 

Venn,  Ephraim Blackdown  Hills. 

Walker,  T.  G. Sligo. 

Way,  J.  W London. 

WHITTINGHAM,  J Wiltshire. 

Williams,  B London. 

Williams,  William Wales. 

AS  I  A. 

ARABIA. 

Van  Tassel,  Samuel  (designated). 

ARMENIA. 

Casparion,  Dr Van. 

Kludgeon,  Dr Tokat. 

CHINA. 

Adams,  Joseph Cheh-kiang 

Adamson,  A. 

Archibald,  J Shantung. 

Baller,  F.  Hupeh. 

Bell,  Miss. 

Beynon,  J.  W Shansi. 

Brown,  Frederick. 

Cameron,  J Shantung. 

Chapman,  Miss. 

Clarke,  S Sichuen. 

Copp,  A. 

Dorward,  A.  C Hunan. 

Douthwaite,  A.  W.    .     .     .     .     .      Shantung. 

Mrs. 

Foucar,  T Yunnan. 

Harmon,  Frank Shingking. 

Hinds,  J Tien-tsin. 

Hutton,  Thomas Kan-suh. 

Handyside,  J. 

James,  T Hunan. 

Johnstone,  W.  S. 
McCloy,  Thomas. 
Markwick,  J. 


262  Appendix. 

MOLLMAN,  J. 

Morrison,  S. 

Murray,  David. 

Nicole,  George Sichuen. 

Parker,  George Kan-suh. 

*Riley,  J.  II. 

Sambrook,  A.  W. 

Smith,  Joiix. 

Sturman,  H.  J. 

Suter,  Fred Cheh-kiang. 

Symon,  Miss Shansi. 

*Taylor,  Henry Honan. 

Terry,  W.  E Shansi. 

Thompson,  David Cheh-kiang. 

Upcroft,  W Kweichan. 

WalleYj  John. 

Ware,  J. 

Whiller,  A. 

INDIA. 

Aaron,  John  S Rangoon. 

Brearley,  Eli Orissa. 

Chowryappah,  J. 
Grundy,  G.  F. 

Mody,  Manekje Bombay. 

,,       Mrs. 
Morbey,  Henry. 
Patterson,  H. 
Plant,  Thomas. 

Rawson,  Joseph Ahmedabad. 

Redwood,  William  A Mysore  Territory. 

SMITH,  H Santhalistan. 

Steven,  Frederick  Arthur   .     .     Bhamo,  Burma. 

JAPAN. 
THOMSON,  R.  A Yokohama. 

SYRIA. 

Connor,  F.  W Damascus. 

IIessenauer,  Geo.,  Dr Ramallah. 

Jauboor,  Hauler,  M.R.C.S. 

,,        Hanna,  M.R.C.S. 

WllYTOCK,  P Port  Said. 

Zeytoon,  F.  S. 

,,  W.  G Lebanon. 

,,  Mrs ,, 

TURKEY. 

Alexandrian,  Dr Constantinople. 

,,  Mrs ,, 

Aslanian,  Bedros,  Dr Erzeroum. 


Appendix. 


263 


DOBRASHIEN,  G.  S.,  Dr. 

Thoumian,  G.     .     .     . 


Constantinople. 
Marsovan. 


AFRICA. 

NORTH   AFRICA. 

Hissein,  Ali Egypt. 

Kestin,  A Alexandria. 

Bureau,  Jocelyn Tunis. 

Cuendet,  E. 

Day,  Miss Oran. 

Hammon,  Miss ,, 

Liley,  Arthur  V , 

Mercadier,  G.  M ,, 

Pos,  W , 

,,     Mrs 

Pryor,  J Morocco. 

Read,  Miss Oran. 

Vining,  Miss ,, 

SOUTH   AFRICA. 

Anderson,  George  B Cape  Colony. 

Armstrong,  John ,,        ,, 

Berthou,  Henri. 
Cameron,  A. 
Clark,  Joseph. 

Cousins,  Henry  T Cape  Colony. 

Denyer,  Charles Algoa  Bay. 

Ferguson,  J. 

Gamble,  Thomas Cape  Colony. 

Horscroft,  Thomas ,, 

Howe,  G.  B . 

Jones,  George ,, 

Kelly,  W.  E ,, 

Kreft,  II.  G 

Langford,  R.  S ,, 

Leak,  Thomas ,, 

Napier,  J ,, 

Newton,  Edward ,, 

Pearson,  A ,, 

Ramage,  James ,, 

Smith,  T.  II.  B 

,,       Mrs , 

Thomas,  M Basutoland. 

Ujojo,  George  U Lovedale. 

Wynn,  Frederick East  London. 

Jaques,  A Transvaal. 

Aitcheson,  Samuel Natal. 

Bradley,  John ,, 


264  Appendix. 

Christie,  Andrew Zululand. 

Christison,  William     ....         ,, 

Clark,  Elbert  S Natal. 

Eyles,  Alfred „ 

Hall,  George ,, 

Harris,  David  II Zululand. 

CENTRAL  AFRICA. 

IlGRE,  E.  C Tanganyika. 

Nicoll,  John  Lowe Lake  Nyassa. 

Riddel,  Alex. 

Seden,  W Ribe. 

"Appel,  Charles  W Congo. 

Banks,  Charles  I? ,, 

Billington,  Arthur ,, 

*Blunt,  Jesse ,., 

Clark,  Joseph 

,,        Mrs ,, 

Cole,  Miss ,, 

"Craven,  Henry ,, 

Mrs 

*Duport,  M. 

Eddie,  J.  B.  . .     .   .' ,, 

"Faithful,  William ,, 

Frederickson,  Peter     ....  ,, 

Glenesk,  C.  B ,, 

Harris,  Miss ,, 

Harvey,  Charles  H tJ 

Ingham,  Charles  E ,, 

,,        Mrs M 

"Insell,  A.  E }) 

*Lanceley,  George      .....  ,, 

"Mack,  John tj 

"McCall,  Adam ,, 

"McKergow,  Hugh ,, 

McKittrick,  J ti 

Moolenaar,  Henry ,, 

Murphy,  John  B ,, 

"Petersen,  Charles ,, 

Petterson,  K.  J ,, 

Ficton,  Thomas  S ,, 

Probert,  II.  E ,, 

Richards,  II ,, 

*         ,,  Mary,  Mrs ,, 

SCHOLES,  S.,  Dr ,, 

Skakle,  Miss ,, 

Sims,  A.,  Dr ,, 

Smith,  J ,, 

,,      Mrs ,, 

Spearing,  Miss .  ,, 


Appendix. 


265 


Telford,  James Congo. 

Walker,  Francis ,, 

,,  Robert 

Waters,  W.  W 

Westlind,  Nils ,, 

White,  Stephen  J , 

„       Mrs ,, 

Vickers ,, 

WEST   COAST. 

Cornelius,  D Guinea. 

Foster,  Frank Cameroons. 

Ludwig,  C Old  Calabar. 

McKiE,  C.  A Gambia. 


AMERICA 


SOUTH. 


Carro,  Domingo  F 
Ewens,  John 
Fletcher,  F. 
*Bo\yers,  William 
Da  Silva,  L. 
Fanstone,  James 
Mrs.  . 


Monte  Video. 
Buenos  Ayres. 

Pemambuco. 


JAMAICA. 


Barron,  Charles. 
Collie,  George 
Johnstone,  J.     . 
Head,  W. 
House,  G. .     .     . 
Kirkham,  A.  J.  . 
Manly,  John. 
Mold,  J.  W.  .     . 
Mowl,  E.  .     .     . 
*Tayloe,  Henry. 
Turner,  George 
Tyler,  W.  F.      . 
Walker,  G.    .     . 


Falmouth  P.  O. 

Bethany. 


St.  Jean  d'Arc. 

Kingstown. 

Kingstown, 
Linstead. 

Staceyville 

Vere. 

Brownstown. 


UNITED    STATES. 

Bagxall,  F Illinois. 

Bei.sey,  G. 

Bond,  G.  A Indiana. 

Bowen,  Frederick Illinois. 

Breach,  W. 
,,        Mrs. 

Bromley,  J California. 

Clark,  G.  M Kentucky 

Colledge,  W.  A.    ......  Illinois. 


i66 


Appendix. 


Cook,  Ciiari.es. 

Cooper,  J.  IT Wisconsin. 

„       J-  J- 

Denman,  William New  York  State 

♦Fleming,  F. 
Groves,  W. 
IIackett,  William. 

IlAMER,  R Dakota. 

Hulett,  James. 

James,  Edward Texas. 

Johnson,  John  A New  York  Stale. 

Johnstone,  A Minnesota. 

Kettle,  W Illinois. 

Kirkpatrick,  D. 
Lf.ite,  Antonio. 

Lloyd,  G Michigan. 

Lopes,  L Illinois. 

McCullagh,  James  B. 

McDougal,  D Connecticut. 

MlLLlGAN,  JOHN  A Colorado. 

Nicholson,  John  William      .     .     Wisconsin. 
Oakshett,  James  Charles  .     .     .     Ohio. 

Page,  F Virginia. 

PAMMENT,  J Montana. 

TlIILLIPS,  J.  II Colorado. 

Rae,  R Minnesota. 

Raine,  C. 

Rock,  George  C Colorado. 

Roisertson,  A. 
Scofield,  A. 
Slater,  Thomas  H. 

Stevenson,  W.  D.  J Nebraska. 

Symonds,  Edmund  W New  York. 

Troy,  J.  W Virginia. 

Turner,  William  R Colorado. 

Westerberg,  A Minnesota. 

Wood,  T.  J California. 


CANADA. 


n. 


Aston,  Frank 
Case,  James  N. 
Deakins,  A. 
"Forbes,  W.  L. 
Franks,  D.    .     . 
Hale,  John   .     . 
Haryett,  W. 
Hinson,  W.    .     . 
Hughes,  Thomas 
Hutchinson,  D. 
Irving,  Richard 


Ontario. 


Ontario. 

Huron. 
Ontario. 
F.  E.  Island. 
Ontario. 


Appendix. 


267 


Jansen,  J Muscota. 

KALEMKIARIAN,  A.  T Montreal. 

Kelly,  R.  W Ontario. 

Kent,  Laurance ,, 

McLeod,  A Richmond. 

McLeod,  C.  E Ontario. 

McQuiston,  Andrew. 
Needham,  Benjamin. 
,,  William. 

Roli>h,  Alfred  S Ottawa. 

Swaffield,  W.  J P.  E.  Island. 

Taylor,  G.  B Huron. 

*Trotter,  John. 

Williams,  Keith Ontario. 

Roger,  George Labrador. 

Woolcott,  F Nova  Scotia. 

AUSTRALIA. 

Beeson,  Thomas. 
Brewster,  Frank. 

Brown,  W Sydney. 

Lewin,  J.  PI ,, 

M  anders,  Thomas Brisbane. 

Nelson,  J North  Rhine. 

Newstead,  A.  C. 

Rivett,  A Tasmania. 

Rogers,  W.  II. 

Sankey,  G.  A Tasmania. 

SHALLUERG,  J Adelaide. 

Sheldon,  C Queensland. 

Smythe,  W Jamestown. 

Stevens,  P.  J Sydney. 

Thomtson,  A.  D Launceston. 

Mrs 


NEW     ZEALAND. 

Cato,  T.  A Nelson. 

McLennan,  Donald Auckland. 

Smyth,  T.  W Christchurch. 

Spencer,  W ,, 

Stan dr inc.,  James ,, 


268 


LIST  OF  THE  SOCIETIES  WITH  WHICH  SOME  OF  THE  ABOVE 
NAMED  MISSIONARIES  ARE  CONNECTED. 

Church  Missionary  Society. 

Mission  of  the  Free  Church  of  Scotland. 

London  Missionary  Society. 

Baptist  Missionary  Society  of  England. 

American  Baptist  Missionary  Union. 

Wesleyan  Missionary  Society. 

Uniied  Methodist  Free  Church  Mission. 

China  Inland  Mission. 

British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society. 

Scottish  Bible  Society. 

Bale  Missionary  Society. 

Vaudois  Mission. 

London  City  Mission. 

McCall  Mission,  France. 

Mission  to  the  Kabyles  and  other  Berber  Races  of 
North  Africa. 

"  Friends  "  Missionary  Society. 

Swedish  Missionary  Society. 

American  Home  Missionary  Societies,  various. 

Jewish  Missionary  Society. 

Mildmay  Mission  to  the  Jews. 

County   Town    Missions   and   various   minor  missionary   and  evan- 
gelistic associations. 

A  considerable  number  in  addition  are  independent,  self-sustaining  mission- 
aries. 


tjutkr  &  Tainii;r,  The  Schvood  Printing  Works,  Frome,  and  London. 


7, 


f 


Date  Due 

.,  ...*v.wwv,i. 

m&i-*- 

f 

PRINTED 

IN  U.  S.  A. 

Semitiary-Speer    Llbfjrj 


1   1012  01090  0274 


'<:*>■-■ 


