DOCUMENT_ID: hart-muether-pt1
TITLE (as printed): Fighting the Good Fight: A Brief History of the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, Part 1 excerpt
DATE: book published 1995 (D. G. Hart and John R. Muether); this OPC web edition undated
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://opc.org/books/fighting/pt1.html
EDITION: D. G. Hart and John R. Muether, Fighting the Good Fight: A Brief History of the Orthodox Presbyterian Church (Committee for the Historian of the OPC, 1995), as reproduced on the Orthodox Presbyterian Church website. Secondary (published history), quoting Machen's 1929 opening address with an internal ellipsis. Used to cross-check the wording of the "though Princeton is dead" quotation found also in machen-opctoday and rian1940-ch4; the wording here differs from both in ways recorded in discrepancies.md.
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (HTML fetched via curl, tags stripped, HTML entities decoded; no OCR)
TOTAL PAGES: not paginated on this web page
WORD COUNT: 442
[[p. body]]
In 1929 the contest for the identity of Princeton Seminary—and more generally for the identity of the Presbyterian Church—came to an end. The seminary was reorganized in such a way that conservatives who had been a majority on the board of directors were now a minority. What is more, signers of the Auburn Affirmation were appointed to serve on Princeton’s board. In effect, the seminary had been forced to conform to the theologically tolerant—if not indifferent—character of the Presbyterian Church. Princeton Seminary, an institution that had stoutly served the Reformed faith since 1812, Machen wrote, had been lost to the cause of Presbyterian orthodoxy.
In response to these devastating developments, Machen and other conservatives in the Philadelphia vicinity founded Westminster Theological Seminary. Yet, according to Machen, speaking at the seminary’s opening exercises in the fall of 1929, “Princeton Seminary is not dead, the noble tradition of Princeton Seminary is alive.” The new seminary would endeavor “by God’s grace” to continue the Princeton tradition unimpaired, as he explained,
… not on the foundation of equivocation and compromise, but on an honest foundation of devotion to God’s Word, to maintain the same principles that old Princeton maintained … that the Christian religion, as set forth in the Confession of Faith of the Presbyterian Church, is true; and … that the Christian religion should be proclaimed without fear or favor, and in clear opposition to whatever opposes it, whether within or without the church, as the only way of salvation for lost mankind.
Such was the founding vision for Westminster Seminary. This was also the founding vision for the OPC. For Machen founded a new seminary not just to add diversity to the world of higher education but in order to train Presbyterian ministers who, week in and week out, would proclaim the whole counsel of God as set forth in the Westminster Confession of Faith. In a few years it would be painfully clear that the ministers trained at Westminster would not be welcome in the Presbyterian Church and that a new denomination would be necessary. That denomination would be the OPC, a church dedicated to faithfully following Scripture, adhering to Old School Presbyterianism in its worship, polity, and doctrine, and putting faithfulness to Christ above the success of numbers or the plaudits of the world. This vision for the OPC was shaped by the developments within Presbyterianism of the 1920s, events which taught that constant vigilance is necessary for the vitality of the church, that errors must be continually expelled, that purity of doctrine, worship, and life must be the goal. In sum, this vision was to be a Presbyterian church, nothing less.
