DOCUMENT_ID: fenger1863-tranquebar
TITLE (as printed): History of the Tranquebar Mission, worked out from the original papers by J. Ferd. Fenger, Licentiate of Theology, and Pastor of Liunge and Braaby near Soro. Published in Danish and translated into English from the German of Emil Francke, Dr. Ph. [Compared with the Danish Original.]
DATE: 1863 (Tranquebar printing); original Danish work by Fenger first published 1843
LANGUAGE: en (translated from Danish/German)
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://archive.org/details/historyoftranque00fengrich (OCR: https://archive.org/download/historyoftranque00fengrich/historyoftranque00fengrich_djvu.txt)
EDITION: Tranquebar: Evangelical Lutheran Mission Press, 1863
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied verbatim from Internet Archive djvu OCR text (spot-checked against page images at several points; OCR quality good, occasional character errors e.g. proper names left uncorrected per protocol)
TOTAL PAGES: 169 (approx., per printed pagination visible in running heads) plus appendices
WORD COUNT: approx. 90,000 (whole downloaded file; only excerpts used in quotes.jsonl)
NOTE: This is a secondary history, but it reprints and translates primary documents (the 1705 Royal Instruction to the missionaries, Appendix I; original letters and journals of Ziegenbalg and Plutschau, quoted at length with quotation marks in the running text). Per the convention used elsewhere in this book project (see research/geneva-academy/sources.csv note on Borgeaud 1900), passages that are direct quotations of primary letters/documents, printed as such by Fenger, are treated as PRIMARY for dossier purposes, cited as [PRIMARY: fenger1863-tranquebar, quoting <name>]; Fenger's own narration is treated as SECONDARY.

GIFT  OF 
HORACE  W.  CARPEMTIER 


OF   THE 


TBANQFEBAB  MISSION- 


WORKED  OUT  FEOM  THE  ORIGINAL  PAPERS 


BY 


J.  FERD.  FENGKER, 


Licentiate  of  Theology,  and  Pastor  of  Liunge  and  Braaby  near  Soro. 


PUBLISHED 

IN  DANISH  AND  TRANSLATED  INTO  ENGLISH  FROM  THE  GERMAN 

or 

Emil  Francke,  Dr.  Ph. 
[Compared  with  the  Danish  Original."] 


•  9         ♦ 


*        i  ft  i  >  • 


*  .        • 


TR^ISTQTJEB^K , 

EVANGELICAL  LUTHERAN  MISSION  PRESS. 

1863. 


T7  Ft 


•   •••••  • 


•    •  a  • 


..   .    *.••  '.    .       •  •        •    *••    •    .' 


TRANSLATOR'S  PREFACE. 


J. he  pleasure  which  every  true  Christian  must  feel  in  the 
spread  of  his  Saviour's  religion  is  of  itself  a  sufficient  cause  for 
making  known  the  labours  of  the  earliest  Missionaries  in  India; 
for  the  man  who  has  learnt  from  Christianity  to  love  God  with  all 
his  heart  and  his  neighbour  as  himself  rejoices  to  see  its  inestim- 
able blessings  declared  "to  every  creature."  It  is  true  that  the  pic- 
ture has  its  dark  shades;  whe  see  here  the  almost  insuperable  diffi- 
culties that  impede  the  conversion  of  the  Hindus,  amongst  which, 
alas!  the  earless  or  profane  lives  of  many  Europeans  stand  promi- 
nently forth,  but  though  it  is  still  "  the  day  of  small  things,  "  any 
one  who  has  heard,  as  I  have,  converted  natives  of  irreproachable 
lives  praying  earnest  scriptual  prayers,  giving  extemporaneous  ser- 
mons of  remarkable  clearness  and  force,  or  writing  such  books  as 
"  The  Dawn  in  the  East,"*  must  feel  that  it  is  a  work  blessed  of 
the  Lord  in  spite  of  any  weakness  or  short  comings  in  the  feeble 
instruments  He  deigns  to  use.  Pastor  Fenger  has  shown  a  manly 
honesty  in  his  account  of  the  failings  of  the  Missionaries,  but  while 
we  grieve  over  the  unworthy,  the  labours  of  such  men  as  Ziegen- 
balg  and  Schwartz,  which  are  indeed  beyond  all  praise,  should  fill 
us  with  a  noble  ambition  to  follow  them  "in  all  virtuous  and  godly 

*"The  Dawn  in  the  East;"  Edinburgh,  Johnstone  and  Hunter.  1854. 

437027 


IV 

living."  We  are  not  called  to  share  their  trials  in  the  comparative 
exile  in  which  they  lived,  and  in  the  want  of  sympathy  shown  to 
them  at  home  when  they  wished  to  return  to  repair  their  constitu- 
tions shattered  by  the  wearing  deadening  influence  of  a  tropical 
climate,  but  we  are  called  on,  each  and  all,  to  make  some  sacrifices 
for  the  sake  of  spreading  the  kingdom  of  our  blessed  Saviour,  if 
only  to  contribute  of  our  worldly  goods  towards  it. 

Pastor  Fenger,  who  was  President  of  the  Danish  Missionary 
Society  in  1842  when  this  book  was  written,  had  very  good  op- 
portunities for  examining  into  the  history  of  Missions,  and  spared 
no  pains  in  hunting  up  manuscripts  and  any  documents  that  could 
throw  light  on  the  subject,  always  examining  them  carefully  and 
impartially.  He  concludes  his  preface  by  a  suggestion  which  might 
be  carried  out  with  advantage  to  English  as  well  as  to  Danish 
Church  History: — "This  book  has  occupied  my  leisure  hours  dur- 
ing the  last  five  or  six  years,  I  now  publish  it  with  the  hope  that 
many  of  my  ministerial  brethren  may  by  it  be  induced  to  work  out 
separate  pieces  of  our  modern  Church  History.  It  is  high  time  that 
the  Lutheran  period  of  Denmark's  Church  should  have  found  its 
historian,  but  many  parts  of  that  period  are  so  little  known  that  it 
is  extremely  desirable  that  careful  monographs  should  be  prepared, 
which  will  ease  the  work  for  him  who  feels  himself  called  upon  to 
write  the  Ecclesiastical  History  of  Denmark  since  the  Reformation. 
I  recommend  this  book  to  the  kindness  of  my  reader,  as  an  attempt 
of  this  sort  towards  clearing  up  a  remarkable  portion  of  modern 
Church  -  historv  of  our  father  -  land." 


aiuHiiiiiw 


CHAPTER  I. 

THE  DANES  SETTLE  IN  THE  EAST  INDIES.     TRACES  OF  MISSIONARY 
ACTIVITY  AMONGST  THE  DANES  IN  THE  17th  CENTURY. 

It  was  during  the  palmy  days  of  King  Christian  IV,  that 
the  Danes  first  turned  their  attention  to  the  East  Indies,  in 
order  to  form  alliances  with  that  distant  country,  and  thus  to 
appropriate  some  of  the  advantages  of  the  rich  trade  which  other 
seafaring  countries  had  then  enjoyed  for  some  time.  An  East 
India  Company  was  established  in  the  year  1616,  at  which  time 
circumstances  were  particularly  favourable  to  the  Danish  designs, 
for  the  power  of  the  Portuguese  was  tottering,  and  the  Dutch 
who  were  always  ready  to  come  forward  to  drive  them  off  the 
Indian  seas,  were  not  powerful  enough  to  attack  them  in  all 
their  possessions  and  therefore  were  quite  unable  to  oppose  the 
Danes  if  they  should  also  come  in  to  give  a  blow  to  the  Portuguese 
here  and  there.  As  there  had  been  Danish  sailors  in  the  first 
Dutch  expedition  to  the  East  Indies,  so  now  Dutch  sai- 
lors and  merchants  were  quite  ready  to  enter  the  Danish 
service,  for  we  find  a  number  of  Dutch  names  amongst  those 
who  contributed  to  the  establishment  of  the  Danish  East  India 
Company.  Amongst  these  we  must  particularly  mention  Roelant 
Crape,  who  was  well  acquainted  with  India  and  had  doubtless 
been  at  the  Court  of  Tanj ore  in  his  early  youth,  which  induced 
him  to  draw  the  attention  of  Christian  IV.  to  that  part.  But  the 

Danes  had  also  an  inducement  to  turn  their  eyes  to  the  Island 

l 


*  •  —  V  — 

<  '<  <  «    ' 

of  Ceylon.  The  King  of  Candy,  generally  called  the  Emperor 
'of 'Ceylon,  had  in 'former  times  called  in  the  Dutch  to  help  him 
against  the  Portuguese,  and  a  Dutch  merchant,  Marcelis  Bo- 
shouwers, had  rendered  him  such  signal  services  that  he  had 
created  him  Prince  of  Migomme  and  also  made  him  an  Admiral. 
In  the  year  1615  when  the  Emperor  was  again  in  difficulties, 
this  Prince  of  Migomme  was  dispatched  to  seek  assistance  for 
him  from  the  Dutch,  or  from  some  other  nation.  Boshouwers  first 
visited  the  Dutch  possessions  in  the  East  Indies  and  then  Holland 
itself,  but  without  being  able  to  succeed  in  his  aim,  for  the  Dutch 
were  not  then  in  a  position  to  be  able  to  interfere  with  any 
advantage  in  the  affairs  of  Ceylon.  There  he  heard  of  the 
establishment  of  the  Danish  East  India  Company  and  started 
for  Denmark  where  he  arrived  in  November  1617,  had  an 
audience  with  the  King  at  Frederiksborg  and  opened  new  pro- 
spects for  the  Company.  It  was  quite  true  that  Boshouwers  was 
Prince  of  Migomme,  and  that  the  Emperor  of  Ceylon  had  sent 
him  to  ask  for  help  against  the  Portuguese,  promising  great 
trading  advantages  to  the  nation  which  should  give  it,  but  he 
had  not  been  provided  with  proper  credentials,  and  when  he 
found  that  they  would  be  very  useful  to  him,  he  prepared  them 
for  himself; — they  were  considered  as  authentic  in  Denmark, 
and  a  treaty  for  Aid  and  for  Commerce  was  arranged  between 
Christian  IV.  and  the  Emperor  of  Ceylon  in  the  year  1618, 
to  last  for  seven  years.  The  equipment  of  an  East  Indian  Fleet 
was  now  carried  on  with  all  diligence.  One  ship,  the  Oeresund, 
started  first  with  Roelant  Crape  on  board  in  August  1618: — it 
reached  Ceylon  in  safety  and-  informed  the  Emperor  that 
assistance  would  soon  follow,  but  Crape  allowed  himself  to  be 
persuaded  by  the  Emperor  into  an  imprudent  declaration  of 
hostilities  against  the  Portuguese,  by  whom  he  was  attacked 


on  the  coast  of  Coromandel.  His  ship  was  stranded,  and  he 
escaped  with  only  thirteen  men  to  the  Naik  of  Tanjore,  who 
took  him  under  his  protection.  The  remainder  of  the  crew  were 
killed  or  taken  prisoner  by  the  Portuguese  and  two  were  executed 
as  pirates.  Meanwhile  the  Fleet,  under  the  command  of  Admiral 
Ove  Gedde,  had  started  about  three  months  after  Crape.  Fleet  and 
Admiral — it  sounds  well,  but  shrinks  up  on  closer  examination, 
for  the  Fleet  consisted  of  two  men  -of-  war,  the  Elephant  and 
the  David,  contributed  by  the  King,  and  three  merchant  ships 
contributed  by  the  Company;  the  Admiral  was  but  24  years 
old,  and  though  he  had  been  a  short  time  in  the  Dutch  service, 
he  knew  as  little  of  maritime  affairs  as  he  did  of  East  Indian 
trade;  however  what  he  wanted  in  experience,  he  made  up  in 
zeal  and  ability,  so  that  even  in  this  case,  Christian  IV. 
proved  that  he  knew  how  to  choose  his  men.*  In  November 
1618  the  Indian  Fleet  sailed  from  the  Sound.  Various  rendezvous 
were  appointed  on  the  long  and  dangerous  voyage  which  lay 
before  them,  but  Gedde  had  more  to  contend  with  in  the  license 
of  his  crew  then  in  the  elements,  which  he  met  however  with 
a  firmness  and  severity  quite  surprising.  Gedde  has  been  re- 
proached  with   being  over-severe,  and  that  he  thus  embittered 

*  It  is  true  that  Gedde  was  called  Admiral,  but  lie  called  himself  Commander, 
and  that  he  was  far  from  pretending  to  be  an  Admiral  is  proved  by  his  being  satis- 
fied in  1624  to  be  Captain  of  a  Company  of  Infantry  which  he  himself  had  levied 
against  the  Emperor.  Before  this,  immediately  on  his  return  from  the  East  Indies,  lie 
had  been  appointed  by  the  King  as  his  Feudary  (Governor)  in  Norway  and  in  one  of 
his  Districts  (Fiefs)  Numedalen,  the  important  Kongsberg-Silvermine  was  discovered 
in  1623,  a  discovery  which  the  King  immediately  followed  up  with  great  zeal.  In  1642 
he  was  made  Lieutenant  Colonel  of  the  Aggerhus  Regiment,  but  still  kept  his  fief; 
and  in  the  beginning  of  the  year  1645  he  was  made  a  member  of  Council  and 
Admiral  of  the  kingdom  without  however  having  any  opportunity  of  distinguishing 
himself,  as  the  Peace  of  Brbmsebro  was  concluded  that  same  year.  It  is  remarkable 
enough  that  the  youthful  Admiral  of  the  little  Indian  fleet  should  finally  become 
an  Imperial  Admiral  of  Denmark. 

1* 


his  inferiors  and  made  the  service  unendurable  to  them,  but 
those  who  did  this,  have  not  sufficiently  considered  the  difficulty 
of  the  position  in  which  he  found  himself.  The  King  had  been 
obliged  to  employ  a  number  of  Dutch,  in  order  to  secure 
experienced  people  as  sailors  and  traders ;  but  for  commanders 
of  the  ships  and  of  the  troops  he  had  chosen  Danish  nobles,  as 
Ore  Gedde,  Niels  Rosenkrands,  Thyge  Stygge  and  Erik  Grubbe, 
on  whom  he  could  depend.  It  is  therefore  easy  to  imagine  how 
difficult  it  was  to  keep  up  any  unanimity  between  the  Danish 
nobles  and  the  Dutch  merchants,  and  as  the  good  Prince  of 
Migomme  wished  to  play  a  very  great  part  and  could  not  get 
the  upper  hand  over  Ove  Gedde,  he  joined  his  Dutch  compatriots, 
and  caused  the  Admiral  all  sorts  of  trouble.  If  the  whole  was 
not  to  fall  to  pieces,  it  was  necessary  to  use  severity  against 
those  who  seemed  to  consider  the  commanders  appointed  by 
the  King  as  unnecessary  ballast,  only  fit  to  be  thrown  overboard 
to  make  room  for  professional  merchants  and  sailors. 

'  The  ships,  which  had  met  at  the  Cape,  were  separated  dur- 
ing the  latter  part  of  the  voyage  and  the  Prince  of  Migomme, 
who  was  not  with  Gedde  on  board  the  Elephant  but  on  board 
the  David,  died;  the  Admiral  arrived  in  Ceylon  in  May  1620, 
where  he  assembled  his  ships  by  degrees.  There  he  heard  of 
Crape's  misfortune,  of  Boshouwer's  death,  and  what  was  still 
worse,  he  found  that  the  Emperor  of  Ceylon  was  not  the  pow- 
erful potentate  they  had  supposed  him  to  be  in  Denmark,  but 
a  weak  man,  who  of  late  years  had  been  so  oppressed  by  the 
Portuguese  that  he  was  quite  unequal  to  pay  the  heavy  sum 
for  the  Danish  assistance  to  which  Boshouwer's  Treaty  obliged 
him,  a  Document  however  which  he  declared  to  be  invalid  in 
every  particular.  Now  it  is  really  very  remarkable  to  observe 
the  activity  and   skill   which    Gedde  displayed  in  his  almost 


5 


desperate  circumstances.  Zealously  anxious  for  the  advantage 
of  the  King  and  of  the  Company,  he  did  all  that  was  possible 
to  induce  the  Emperor  to  pay  the  stipulated  sum,  which  was 
most  necessary  for  him  to  enable  him  to  buy  the  cargoes  which 
he  wished  to  send  home.  But  finding  that  there  was  nothing 
to  be  obtained,  he  made  use  of  the  Emperor's  great  desire  to 
win  the  Danes,  to  draw  up  a  Treaty  in  24  Articles,  quite  as 
advantageous  as  the  Treaty  of  Boshouwers,  and  by  which 
Trincomalee,  which  had  not  fallen  into  the  possession  of  the 
Portuguese  and  which  was  in  a  very  important  position,  was 
formally  ceded  to  the  Danish  crown,  so  that  the  King  and  his 
successors  were  to  govern  there  after  their  own  pleasure,  just  as  in 
their  own  kingdom  of  Denmark.  After  these  arrangements  had 
been  made,  in  August  1620  Gedde  bade  adieu  to  the  Emperor, 
who  presented  him  with  some  precious  stones  and  an  elephant, 
and  sailed  away  to  the  Coromandel  Coast. 

There  Roelant  Crape  had  been  for  some  time  maintained 
by  the  Prince  of  Tanjore,  and  had  exerted  himself  greatly  to 
the  advantage  of  the  East  India  Company  having  come  into 
the  possession  of  Tranquebar,  so  that  undeniably  the  way  was 
smoothed  for  Ove  Gedde.  The  negociations  very  nearly  made 
shipwreck  on  Crape's  mistrust  of  Gedde,  who  was  represented 
to  him  by  the  Dutch  merchants  as  a  hard  and  obstinate  man, 
from  whom  on  accomit  of  his  loss  of  the  ship  Oeresmid  he  had 
nothing  to  expect  but  the  gallows  and  the  wheel.  Crape  therefore 
received  Gedde  with  the  greatest  suspicion,  and  when  the  latter 
had  come  into  Tanjore,  and  had  himself  opened  communication 
with  the  Naik,  they  worked  for  sometime  against  one  another 
to  the  detriment  of  their  common  cause;  but  as  both  were  active 
men  and  zealous  in  their  work  (Crape  afterwards  did  great 
service  towards  the  foundation  of  the  Danish  trade  in  India 


and  was  raised  by  the  King  to  the  rank  of  a  noble)  it  was  not 
difficult  to  them  for  each  to  give  way  a  little  and  lay  their 
personnel  aside  for  the  public  good.  The  Treaty  was  concluded 
in  November  1620.  It  was  advantageous  for  Danish  trade  and 
was  lasting  while  the  more  advantageous  Treaty  of  Ceylon  was 
never  carried  into  execution. 

Immediately  on  the  conclusion  of  the  Treaty  Gedde  began 
to  lay  the  foundation  of  the  fortress  of  Dansborg,  to  the  erection 
of  which  the  Naik  had  consented,  though  without  obliging  himself 
to  furnish  either  lime  or  stone.  Crape  received  the  highest  ap- 
pointment in  the  new  Colony.  Henrik  Hess  was  made  Comman- 
dant of  the  Fortress,  and  the  first  Pastor  of  the  Church  in  the 
Fort  (of  which  Gedde  laid  the  foundation  before  his  departure) 
was  Peder  Strensen  Aaley  who  died  some  years  afterwards  in 
Tranquebar.  Gedde  went  first  to  Ceylon,  and  on  the  last  day 
of  May  1621,  sailed  in  his  ship,  the  Elephant,  for  Europe, 
after  spending  above  a  year  in  India,  and  planting  the  Danish 
flag  in  that  place  where  it  has  since  waved  for  more  then  200 
years.  His  return  was  much  quicker  than  his  outward  voyage, 
not  only  because  he  had  learned  greater  experience  in  sea 
matters,  but  because  he  returned  with  only  one  ship,  whereas 
he  had  sailed  out  with  a  fleet  which  he  had  tried  to  keep  together. 
The  Elephant  reached  Copenhagen  in  March  1622,  while  the 
other  man  -  of-  war,  the  David  commanded  by  Niels  Rosenkrands, 
which  with  Gedde's  consent  had  left  India  before  him,  did  not 
arrive  till  a  month  later. 

A  remarkable  circumstance  in  Gedde's  voyage  is  that  he 
kept  an  exact  Diary  of  all  that  happened  to  him  both  at  sea  and 
in  India;  —  Schlegel  says  :*  iCI  very  much  doubt  whether  in  the 

.  *  T.  H.  Schlegel  "Sammlungzur  danischen*  Geschichte,  1.  Bd.  2.  Stck.  S.51". 
Schlegel  has  not  only  published   Gedde's  manuscript  Diary  which  he  gave  to  the 


whole  voluminous  collection  of  voyages  and  travels  published 
in  England  there  is  a  similar  example  of  the  account  of  the 
first  voyage  of  a  nation  to  the  East  Indies  being  written  by  the 
Admiral's  own  hand.  ; 

Thus  far  have  I  thought  it  necessary  to  describe  the 
foundation  of  the  Danish  Colony  in  Tranquebar,  and  I  will  now 
leave  the  17th  Century  to  run  out  in  order  to  come  at  once  to  a 
point  when  those  at  home  began  to  think  of  something  besides 
increasing  trade  and  making  money,  when  they  began  to  take 
steps  for  bringing  the  blessings  of  Christianity  amongst  the 
Heathen  who  lived  on  Danish  gromid  in  the  East  Indies,  though 
for  a  long  time  the  idea  was  faint  and  undetermined.  It  is  true 
that  at  first  there  was  one  Pastor,  and  afterwards  two,  for  the 
Danish  congregation  in  Tranquebar,  and  that  most  of  the  ships 
had  a  Chaplain  on  board,  but  there  is  scarcely  a  trace  that  any 
of  them  had  turned  their  attention  to  the  Natives.  So  much 
the  more  careful  must  we  be  in  following  out  the  few  traces 
that  are  to  be  seen.  I  cannot  therefore  here  pass  over  a  Danish 
Preacher  and  Poet  who  died  about  the  end  of  the  century  in 
Tranquebar,  and  is  called  in  his  Epitaph  "the  Danish  Apostle 
of  India.  "  I  mean  the  well  -  known  master  of  Arts  Jacob  Worm. 

He  was  born  in  Kirke  -  Helsinge,  where  his  father  Peder 
Jacobsen  Worm  was  Pastor,  on  the  8  th  of  December  1642,  and 
received  his  first  instruction  in  his  father's  house,  and  afterwards 
in  the  Gymnasium  at  Slagelse,  whence  he  entered  the  University 

Chancellor  Friis  in  1623,  but  has  also  worked  out  the  early  history  of  the  Danish  East 
Indian  trade  with  great  care.  There  are  many  particulars  of  this  voyage  in  the  fu- 
neral sermon  on  Ove  Gedde  by  the  Copenhagen  Pastor  Michael  Henriksen,  published 
in  the  collection  of  his  funeral  sermons  (Copenhagen  1706)  and  translated  into  Ger- 
man in  the  Mission  Reports  of  Halle  (Th.  1.  Cont.  VII).  If  any  one  wishes  to  in- 
quire into  Malabar  sources  with  regard  to  Gedde's  arrival  in  Tranquebar,  see  the 
above  named  Report  Th.  1.  Cont.  XL  S.  883,  but  the  result  is  very  unimportant. 


—     8     — 

in  1663.  He  soon  showed  himself  a  clever  man,  wrote  verses  and 
not  only  held  Latin  disputations,  bnt  preached  in^Latin  at  the 
court,  where  he  was  in  great  favour,  and  where  his  work  on 
the  right  of  Kings  to  appoint  Pastors  was  graciously  received. 
He  received  a  promise  of  the  theological  lectureship  at  Viborg 
as  soon  as  it  should  be  vacant,  but  was  quite  satisfied  when 
he  was  appointed  Rector  of  the  school  at  Slangerup;* — there 
he  remained  for  six  years,  till  in  1677  he  was  appointed  Pastor 
of  the  Church  of  the  Greyfriars  in  Viborg.  Here  he  married  the 
daughter  of  his  predecessor,  Miss  Abel  Achton.  His  conduct  was 
irreproachable,  his  preaching  earnest,but  the  very  attention  which 
he  could  call  forth,  and  the  power  which  he  had  in  lashing  vices 
and  crimes,  seems  to  have  been  ruinous  to  himself,  as  he  thought 
himself  called  upon  to  become  a  reformer  of  his  country,  and 
to  give  counsel  in  affairs  of  state.  He  took  up  the  common 
rumours  of  the  faults  of  the  great  in  Copenhagen,  and  found 
fault  with  them  from  his  pulpit  at  Viborg,  round  which  the  poorer 
classes  gladly  assembled  to  hear  their  superiors  satirized.  The 
more  severely  he  preached,  the  more  willingly  his  hearers 
listened,  for  they  could  easily  bear  a  cutting  discourse  which 
was  not  likely  to  touch  themselves  :  but  Worm  proved  that  he 
had  no  call  to  the  office  of  reformer,  by  his  want  of  courage 
and  honesty.  What  he  did  not  dare  to  say  from  the  pulpit,  he 
wrote  in  abusive  verses  in  Danish,  which  were  quietly  circulated 
from  hand  to  hand.  In  these  verses  not  only  the  faults  of  the 
Church,  especially  in  the  choice  of  pastors,  were  denounced, 
but  the  misconduct  of  the  war  in  Schonen  and  even  the  highest 

*  Pontoppidan  says  Slagelse  for  Slangerup  in  the  4th  Part  of  his  Annals  P.  607. 
The  same  assertion  is  found  in  Nyerup  History  of  Danish  Poetry,  Part  3,  P.  262, 
and  in  the  life  of  Worm  in  the  Journal  of  Politics  for  1812;  but  it  is  incorrect.  See  Alb. 
Thurrc  "  valvae  scholarum  regni  Danici  apertae  "  P.  230  (amongst  the  manuscripts 
of  the  University  Library). 


—     9     — 

courts  of  law  and  the  King's  Privy  Council  were  brought  satiri- 
cally before  the  public.  "The  complaining  Student'  and  the 
1 '  King's  Clock"  are  the  most  notable  ol  his  verses,  which  were  ac- 
companied by  coarse  libels  in  prose,  as  for  example  "  Abraham's 
Vision"  and  "  Jeroboam's  Idols,"  in  which  the  King  and  his 
ministers  were  clearly  pointed  out,  and  accused  of  the  gravest 
crimes.  His  Bishop,  Dr.  Soren  Glud,  the  brother-in-law  of  the 
powerful  Privy  Counsellor  Moth,  warned  him  often,  but  could 
not  effect  any  change,  as  Worm  denied  that  these  widely  spread 
satires  were  his  work,  and  continued  to  shoot  his  arrows  against 
the  Bishop  and  his  highly  connected  family.  Such  lines  as  those 
in  "The  complaining  Student": 

"  Simon  Magus,  Toever,  Tisper 
Kalder  Proester,  Provster,  Bisper" 

must  have  struck  hard  indeed  on  Soren  Glud,  who  had  been  for 
many  years  the  village  pastor  in  Hoie-Taastrup,  but  through 
the  influence  of  the  Moth  family  had  been  made  a  Doctor  of 
Divinity  and  Bishop  of  Viborg  and  raised  to  the  rank  of  a  noble. 
But  the  complete  rupture  between  the  Bishop  and  Worm  took 
place  in  1680  on  the  King's  birthday.  At  the  dinner  given  by 
the  Bishop,  the  health  of  the  Royal  family  was  drunk,  and  finally 
the  health  of  the  (illegitimate)  children  of  the  King  was  propos- 
ed— in  this  Worm  would  not  join,  and  when  he  was  asked  his 
reason,  he  designated  the  children  by  a  very  impolite,  but  well 
known  name.  This  was  naturally  made  known  at  Copenhagen, 
together  with  information  about  his  various  satires.  An  officer 
of  justice  was  sent  to  Viborg  to  search  Worm's  house  for  such 
papers  as  would  justify  a  legal  prosecution,  for  the  history  of  the 
toast  was  a  ticklish  affair,  which  no  one  wished  to  stir  up.  The 
officer  showed  Worm  the  royal  commands;  he  gave  up  his 
keys  with  the  greatest  indifference,  apologizing  for  not  going 


—     10     — 

round  with  him,   as  lie  had  to  preach  the  next  day  and  must 
therefore  remain  in  his  chair  in  his  study.  The  officer  searched 
everywhere,     and  was  much  displeased  that  he  found  nothing. 
But  it  was  not  enough  for  Worm  to  have  made  a  fool  of  the 
officer  of  justice,  he  must  let  all  the  world  know  how  it  had  been 
done.    When  he  preached  the  next  day  he  began  Ins  sermon 
with  the  34th  and  35th  verses  of  the  31st  Chapter  of  the  Book 
of  Genesis,  where  it  tells  that  Rachel  sat  upon  her  father's  images 
so  that  Laban  sought  them  in  vain.    This  striking  text  led  the 
officer  of  justice  who  was  one  of  the  congregation  to  leave  the 
Church  immediately,  go  to  Worm's  house  and  search  the  chair 
on  which  he  had  sat  the  day  before; — under  it  he  found  a  draw- 
er, filled  with  the  condemned  satires.  Worm  was  now  in  a  sad 
condition,  for  suspension  and  arrest  were  simultaneously  made 
known  to  him.   From  his  prison  he  wrote  a  defence  to  the  King, 
and  as  he  could  no  longer  deny,  he  tried  the  power  of  excuses:  — 
he  had  but  spoken  the  words  of  scripture ; — he  could  not  help  it  if 
people  would  apply  to  individuals  what  he  had  only  said  of  man- 
kind in  general; — he  had  never  meant  to  injure  the  King's 
counsellors  and  servants  by  his  hard  words,  but  only  to  warn 
and  encourage  them; — he  had  taken  much  from  the  printed 
writings  of  others  &c.  But  this  helped  him  nothing;  the  com- 
missioners took  away  his  living  and  gave  him  up  to  the  temporal 
power,  which  pronounced  that  he  had  forfeited  honour,  life  and 
estates,  that  his  libels  should  be  burnt  by  the  hangman,  that  he 
should  be  punished  for  perjury  by  the  loss  of  three  fingers,  and 
finally  have  his  head  struck  off  by  the  sword. 

This  sentence  was  not,  however,  carried  out :  for  the  un- 
lucky poet  being  in  danger  of  death  was  untiring  in  sending 
verses  to  the  King  ,  to  Gryldenlove  and  any  influential  people 
from  whom  he  could  expect  intercession.     Among  those  who 


—   11   — 

spoke  in  his  favour  is  mentioned  the  husband  of  his  stepmother, 
Dr.  Thomas  Kingo,  who  had  been  first  vicar  to  his  father  and 
had  then  succeeded  him  in  his  living.  So  he  escaped  with  his 
life,  but  was  transported  in  the  first  ship  that  sailed  for  Tran- 
quebar,  where  he  acted  for  some  time  as  Director  of  the  Choir 
in  the  Church.  In  his  Adieu  to  his  Fatherland,  he  says : — 

"  Da  Lykken  slog  mig  feil,  da  fcerte  jeg  at  kjende 
Min  Gud,  min  Ven,  mig  selv ;  men  allermeest  min  Fjende. 
Min  Fjende  var  mig  gram,  min  Ven  mig  og  forlod, 
Selv  var  jeg  skrobelig, — Gud  var  alene  god.  "  * 

It  is  not  easy  to  say  what  he  did  in  Tranquebar  for  the 
conversion  of  the  heathen.  Some  declare  that  he  translated 
the  Bible,  others  that  he  occupied  himself  with  translating  the 
New  Testament  only  into  Tamil,  others  that  he  preached  to 
the  Natives  in  the  public  street,  and  that  on  one  occasion  their 
idol's  car  fell  to  pieces  and  could  not  be  moved  from  the  spot, 
while  others  relate  that  he  was  preaching  in  the  Christian 
Church  one  Sunday  when  a  large  heathen  procession  passed 
and  his  congregation  wished  to  run  out  to  look  at  it ;  Worm 
exhorted  them  to  remain  in  the  Church,  assuring  them  that 
they  would  be  quite  in  time  to  see  the  ceremony  after  Divine 
Service  was  concluded,  and  his  words  came  true  by  the  car 
falling  to  pieces  and  remaining  on  the  spot  until  his  sermon 
was  over.  It  is  said  that  this  occurrence  gave  Worm  great 
influence  over  the  Natives  and  that  after  his  death  (on  the  17th 
Dec.  1691)  his  corpse  did  not  decay.  Be  that  as  it  may,  not 
a  trace  remained  in  after  years  of  his  translation  of  the  Bible, 
nor  of  any  congregation  founded  by  him,   so  that  he  is  very 

*  Others  ascribe  these  lines  to  Griffenfeldt,  and  say  that  he  wrote  them  on 
a  window  in  his  prison ;  Rask,  Amusing  Lectures  for  the  Danish  People  1841. 
No.  9.  My  warrant  is  taken  from  a  Manuscript  collection  of  Worm's  poems,  pag.  201. 
(Amongst  the  M.  S.  of  the  University  Library  fol.  Add.  No.  160.) 

2* 


—     12     — 

improperly  called  the  Danish  Apostle  of  India  in  his  Epitaph. 
This  Epitaph  runs  thus  :  "  The  lover  of  truth,  the  enemy  of 
vice,  the  prophet  of  his  fatherland,  the  Danish  apostle  of  India, 
Magister  Jacob  Worm,  who  knew  not  how  to  deceive,  but 
knew  well  how  to  punish  sin  and  vice,  who  taught  the  erring 
and  the  unbelieving  both  by  his  pen  and  by  his  mouth,  rests 
in  this  place  for  the  truth's  sake ;  for  though  banished  from 
his  native  country,  he  was  not  burned  by  the  heat  of  the  sun, 
but  naturally  and  happily,  after  his  sea- voyage,  short  stay  in 
India,  and  much  building  up  amongst  the  Natives,  he  was 
received  by  Christ  into  the  heavenly  kingdom." 

With  the   exception   of  Jacob  Worm's  efforts,  there  is 

nothing  in  the  17th  century  which  resembles  any  Missionary 

activity   on  the  part  of  the  Danes  amongst  the  heathen  of  the 

East   Indies,   unless  the   fact  be  taken  into  the  account  that 

during  the  long  war  between  the  Danes  in  Tranquebar  and 

their  neighbours  in  Bengal  which  was  principally  carried  on 

by  privateering,  it  was  their  custom  to  take  the  crews  of  the 

privateers  as  slaves,  to  baptize  them  and  sell  them  at  a  price 

varying  from  5  to  10  piasters.     This  unworthy  commerce  is 

a  stain  on  the  Danish  honour  in  the  East,  which  Niebuhr  tries 

in  vain  to  wash  out  with  the  remark  that  it  must  be  attributed 

to  the  century  and  not  to  the  persons.     We  long  to  see  nobler 

characters  appear  than  those  who  could  allow  the  heathen  to 

be  baptized  in  order  to  sell  them  for  a  few  piasters.     I  need 

scarcely    add   that   this    custom   did  not  originate   with   the 

Danish  Government,  which   on  the  contrary  had  considered 

the  spiritual  welfare  of  its  heathen  subjects  before  the  regular 

beginning  of  any  Mission,  for   when   the   New   East  India 

Company,  which  was  formed  in'  1670,  received  a  Charter  for 

40  years,  dated  from  the  20th  of  November  1670,  the  5th 


—     13     — 

Paragraph  runs  thus: — "  As  it  is  to  be  hoped  that  many  of  the 
Indians,  when  they  shall  be  properly  instructed  will  be  turned 
from  their  heathen  errors,  there  shall  always  be  Priests  in  the 
ships  and  in  the  territory  belonging  to  the  Company,  and  the  King 
promises  to  promote  such  Priests  as  have  been  in  the  service 
of  the  Company;" — but  this  royal  promise  had  no  effect  in 
promoting  the  conversion  of  the  heathen.  Moreover  though 
there  is  no  trace  of  the  Government  having  been  aware  of  the 
traffic  in  baptized  Natives,  there  is  also  no  trace  of  its  having 
done  any  thing  to  oppose  it. 


CHAPTER  II. 

FREDERIC  IV.— LUETKENS.— THE  YOUTH  OF  ZIEGENBALG. 

It  is  no  rare  occurrence  in  Denmark  to  be  able  to  say  when 
anything  good,  noble,  or  beautiful  is  set  on  foot :  "  This  originates 
with  the  King;  "  and  the  heart  of  every  patriot  rejoices  when  it 
can  he  said  with  truth.  That  the  man  who  opened  the  road  to 
Evangelical  Missionary  activity  in  the  18th  and  19th  centuries 
was  a  Danish  King,  is  a  fact  which  has  been  acknowledged  and 
appreciated  throughout  Europe.  It  was  not  the  parsing  impression 
of  an  idle  hour  which  induced  Frederic  IV.  to  seek  for  evangelical 
messengers  to  send  forth  to  the  heathen  of  India.  He  had  me- 
ditated on  the  subject  for  many  years;  even  when  he  was  Crown 
Prince  the  cause  of  the  heathen  lay  very  near  his  heart  and  he 
wondered  much  that  no  one  in  the  Evangelical  Church  had 
thought  of  helping  them.  As  soon  as  he  ascended  the  throne  of 
Denmark  and  Norway  these  thoughts  returned  so  often  that 
they  awoke  the  resolution  of  making  an  attempt.  The  first  person 
whom  he  consulted  in  the  affair  was  his  confessor,  the  Norwegian 
Dr.  Peder  Jespersen,  whom  he  requested  to  find  two  suitable 
men  to  make  known  the  Grospel  to  the  Laplanders  in  Finmark. 
In  the  same  way  the  King  spoke  to  his  Grerman  court-preacher 
Dr.  Masiusj  begging  him  to  seek  for  Missionaries  for  another 
heathen  people.  It  was  not  till  1704,  however,  when  Dr.  Liltkens 
came  to  Copenhagen  as  court-preacher,  that  Frederic  IV.  found 
a  man  who  entered  earnestly  into  what  lay  so  near  his  heart, 


—     15     — 

and  who,  to  use  his  own   expression,   carried  wood  with  joy, 
when  he  saw  such  a  fire  begin  to  blaze. 

Franz  Julius  Lutkens  was  the  son  of  a  miller  in  the  Duchy 
of  Lauenburg,  had  occupied  posts  in  schools  and  churches 
in  various  places  in  Germany,  and  was  Pastor  of  St.  Peter's 
Church  in  Berlin,  when  Frederic  IV.  called  him  to  Copenhagen 
as  preacher  to  the  court.  As  soon  as  he  had  been  commissioned 
by  the  King  to  look  for  Missionaries  to  send  to  Tranquebar,  he 
consulted  with  the  Bishop  of  Zealand,  Dr.  Bornemann,  as  to 
whether  he  knew  any  one  fit  for  the  undertaking  and  finding 
that  he  did  not,  Lutkens  wrote  to  his  former  colleagues  in  Berlin, 
Pastors  Lysius  and  Campe,  who  in  their  turn  consulted  Prof. 
Francke  of  Halle,and  soon  received  the  desired  answer  that  he  knew 
of  two  men  who  feared  Grod  from  their  hearts,  and  were  willing 
to  go  to  the  heathen.  This  wa  s  the  beginning  of  that  union  between 
Copenhagen  and  Halle  in  Missionary  affairs  which  lasted  so  many 
years  with  much  satisfaction  on  both  sides.  The  King  was  so 
much  pleased  with  the  first  two  Missionaries,  that  when  they 
asked  for  assistants,  he  turned  to  Lutkens  saying  :  "  Provide 
people  for  us,    Doctor.  " 

The  two  first  Missionaries  were  Heinrich  Plutschau  from 
Wesenberg  in  Mecklenburg,  and  Bartholomews  Ziegenbalg  from 
Pulsnitz  in  Upper-Lausitz,  and  as  the  latter  was  not  only 
one  of  the  founders  of  the  Mission  and  worked  for  it  with 
undiminished  zeal  to  his  latest  breath,  but  also  a  remarkable 
man  on  many  accounts,  we  must  pause  a  little  to  consider  the 
history  of  his  life,  which  we  are  acquainted  with  from  his  own 
accounts. 

He  was  born  on  St.  John's  Day,  24th  June  1683.  His 
father,  a  merchant  in  Pulsnitz,  was  named  like  himself  Bar- 
tholomaus,  his  mother  Catharina ;  but  he  lost  both  his  parents 


—     16     — 

at  such  an  early  age,  that  he  knew  but  little  of  them.    And  yet 
one    occurrence  of  his  mother's  dying   hours  was  never  for- 
gotten by  him.  Wlien  she  felt  her  death  approaching  she  gather- 
ed her  family  round  her  bed,  and  said  to  them  :   "  Dear    children, 
I  have  collected  a  great  treasure  for  you ;  a  very  great  treasure 
have  I  collected  for  you."     When  the  eldest  daughter  asked: 
"  Dear   Mother,   where  is    the  treasure",   the   dying  woman 
answered:  "Seek  it  in  the  Bible,  my  dear   children,  there  you 
will  find  it.     I  have  watered  every  page  with  my  tears."    This 
hour,  says  Ziegenbalg,  went  to    our  hearts,   and  we  pledged 
ourselves    to    remind    each   other   of  it   often. — His  father's 
death  was  remarkable  also.     The  old  Ziegenbalg  lay  ill,    when 
a  fire  broke  out  in  the  town  and  reached  his  house  ; — in  their 
hurry  and  fright  his  friends  did  not  know  how  to    arrange  to 
save  the  dying  man,   when  they  thought  of  his  own  coffin, 
which  he  had  had  for  some  time  in  readiness.    He  was  carried 
out  in  it,  and  died  in  it  in  the  open  air  in  the  market   place. 
Young  Ziegenbalg  was  thus  left  under  the  care  of  his  eldest 
sister,  who  kept  him  diligently  to  a  regular  attendance  at  school 
and  to  reading  the  Bible.    An  extraordinary  earnestness  cha- 
racterized his  childhood.      He  meditated  on  Heaven  and  Hell, 
felt  severe  reproaches  from  conscience  whenever  he  had  done 
any  thing  wrong,  and  when  he  heard  of  the  death  of  any  one 
he  thought:  "  Where  may  that  soul  now  be,  and  what  change 
has  it  experienced?  "  He  was  placed  in  the  school  at   Kamenz, 
and  afterwards  in  the   Gymnasium  at  Gorlitz  where   he  was 
exposed  to  temptations  and  passed  some  time  idly,  but  the  first 
impressions  of  childhood  were  soon  refreshed.     He  was  about 
sixteen  years  old  when  one  day  a  pious  student  came  to  him 
as  he  was  amusing  himself  with  music,  and  expressed  his  opinion 
on  music  being  a  noble  art,  but  added  that  none  could  under- 


*—    17     — 

stand,  or  practise  it,  who  were  not  in  a  spiritual  harmony  with  God 
and  with  themselves; — the  mind  of  man,  he  said,  had  been  en- 
tirely disordered  by  the  Fall  and  must  be  brought  into  a  com- 
pletely different  condition  before  it  can  attain  to  real  har- 
mony. This  speech  struck  Ziegenbalg;  he  took  a  great  fancy 
to  this  student,  offered  him  his  friendship,  and  they  afterwards 
met  daily,  partly  for  prayer  and  for  reading  God's  Word,  and 
partly  for  walking  out  into  the  country  to  read  the  goodness  of 
God  in  the  book  of  Creation.  Thus  Zieo-enbalo;  showed  his  care 
for  his  soul,  and  withdrew  from  all  other  society.  When  the 
other  scholars  observed  this,  they  made  him  such  a  target  for  their 
ridicule  that  his  friend  proposed  that  they  should  undertake 
a  journey  together: — it  took  place,  and  had  such  a  favourable  in- 
fluence on  Ziegenbalg,  that  he  returned  to  Gorlitz  so  strengthened 
as  to  bear  courageously  the  scorn  not  only  of  his  fellow  students, 
but  also  of  many  others.  u  My  soul,"  said  he,  "had  tasted  such 
sweetness  and  joy  in  God  that  she  was  willing  not  only  to  give 
up  all  the  pleasures  of  this  world,  but  cheerfully  to  bear  its 
hatred  and  contempt." 

But  he  soon  had  to  endure  a  harder  trial  than  the  ridicule  of 
the  world.  We  will  let  him  speak  for  himself:  —  "  When  Iliad 
been  for  some  time  in  the  enjoyment  of  the  perceptible  grace 
of  God,  and  had  thereby  gained  many  victories  over  the  devil, 
the  world  and  my  sinful  flesh  and  blood — behold,  the  hardest 
temptations  beset  me,  and  I  felt  as  if  abandoned  by  God,  for  I 
could  no  longer  feel  his  consolatory  communion  with  my  soul;  on 
the  contrary,  I  saw  in  myself  and  in  all  mankind  nothing  but 
misery,  grief  and  heart-ache.  Then  my  eyes  were  first  opened 
to  behold  the  entire  ruin  of  the  children  of  men,  and  my  astonish- 
ment was  great  to  see  on  the  one  side  the  long-suffering  of  God 
who  reigns  with  so  much  forbearance  over  a  guilty  world  instead 


—     18     — 

of   striking  it  at  once  with  the  rod  of  his  justice,  and  on  the 
other  the  great  wickedness  of  men  in  remaining  so  proud,  shame- 
less and  secure  in  the  midst  of  their  misery.      I  had  no  one  to 
whom  I  could  speak  on  this  deep-seated  grief  of  my  heart 
(his  above-mentioned  friend  had  gone  away),  and  could  not 
make  known  my  condition  to  a  single  soul,  for  every  one  thought 
that  it  arose  simply  from  melancholy,  which  ought  to  be  driven 
away  by  amusement.  I  loathed  all  earthly  things,  and  could  not 
find  rest  or  pleasure  in  any  thing.    My  tutors  saw  me  wandering 
about  in  great  depression  both  of  mind  and  body  and  could  not 
at  all  comprehend  it,  though  they  were  much  kinder  to  me  than 
I  deserved.  When  however  I  had  suffered  this  anguish  of  heart 
for  nine  months,  and  God  had  tried  and  purified  me  by  trials, 
the  joyous  and  healing  light  of  the  holy  Gospel  dawned  once 
again  on  my  soul,   and  I  was  restored  to  a  truly  evangelical 
cheerfulness.  But  now  I  had  to  combat  with  myself,  for  I  could  not 
determine  whether  it  was  advisable  to  pursue  the  study  of  theology, 
both  on  account  of  the  heavy  responsibility,  and  of  the  great 
corruption  which  I  now  perceived  had  crept  into  the  clerical 
profession.    But  I  soon  overcame  this  temptation  and  decided 
that  it  was  the  more  necessary  to  study  theology  as  the  sincere 
workers  were  so  few.    When  I  meditated  on  God's  mercies  to 
my  soul  during  the  last  twelve  months,  I  acknowledged  myself 
bound  to  dedicate  myself  entirely  to  his  service,  and  to  seek  noth- 
ing in  the  world  but  the  magnifying  of  his  holy  name;  and  I  soon 
perceived  that  this  could  only  be  done  by  so  teaching  my  neigh- 
bours that  they  might  also  be  saved  and  brought  into  communion 
with  the  Triune  God.  But  here  I  perceived  also  how  necessary 
it  was  that  I  should  make  myself  fit  for  performing  such  a  service 
to  God  and  my  neighbour.  I  therefore  began  to  carry  on  my  studies 
with  great  earnestness :  they  all  appeared  easy  to  me,  for  my 


—    19    — 

mind  was  quite  in  another  condition  before  God  from  what  it 
had  been  before.  I  arranged  my  studies  in  what  I  considered 
the  best  way  for  attaining  my  aim.  For  this  I  began  a  corre- 
spondence with  pious,  wise  and  learned  theologians,  confided  to 
them  my  experiences,  and  asked  good  counsel  of  them,  and  by 
their  letters  I  became  more  and  more  awakened  and  encouraged 
in  my  studies." 

Amongst  the  men  with  whom  Ziegenbalg  thus  entered 
into  correspondence  we  must  particularly  mention  Prof.  August 
Hermann  Francke  of  Halle,  whose  Penitential  Sermons  he 
had  read  with  so  much  edification,  that  he  confided  to  him  the 
state  of  his  mind,  and  asked  for  advice.  Francke  encouraged 
him  in  the  good  fight,  which,  by  God's  grace,  he  had  begun,  and 
advised  him  to  continue  his  studies  at  Berlin,  in  the  Frederic- 
Gymnasium,  which  was  then  managed  by  Joachim  Lange,  who 
was  afterwards  a  Professor  at  Halle.  In  Lange  and  Spener 
he  found  faithful  teachers,  was  much  assisted  by  Canstein,  and 
was  beginning  to  attain  thorough  profoundness  in  his  studies, 
when  sickness  obliged  him  to  return  home  to  his  sister,  whose 
care  he  enjoyed  for  a  year.  While  at  home  he  repeated 
every  thing  which  he  had  been  learning,  and  tried  in  every 
way  to  make  use  of  his  gifts  for  the  good  of  his  neighbours ; 
"  for",  he  writes,  "  my  constant  thought  was  that  my  life  would 
be  very  short,  wherefore  I  hastened  so  much  the  more  towards 
my  goal,  and  though  I  was  often  reminded  both  in  letters  and 
by  word  of  mouth,  to  spare  my  body,  yet  I  thought  it  was  better 
to  have  lived  a  short  and  a  good  life,  than  a  long  and  a  bad  one." 

When  he  had  regained  a  little  strength,  he  visited  various 
Universities,  but  in  no  place  was  he  better  pleased  than  at 
Halle  with  Francke.  He  found  there  students  of  a  like  mind 
with  himself,  and  faithful  instruction  from  the  Professors ;  but 


—     20     — 

the  thought  of  the  responsibility  of  the  clerical   profession  and 
his  bodily  weakness  so  depressed  him,  that  he  began  to  think 
that  it  would  be  better  to  give  up  theology  and  occupy  himself 
with   agriculture,  in  order  thus  to  live  in  peace  for  the  salva- 
tion of  his  own  soul,  without  loading  himself  with  the  guilt  of 
others.    * '  I  was,"  he  writes,  "something  like  Jonas,  who  wished 
to  be  freed  from  a  like  heavy  burden,  but  was  at  last  obliged 
to   listen  to  the  commands  of  God ;  for   though   I  was   not 
thrown  into  the  sea  like  Jonas,  yet  I  had  to  undergo  severe 
punishments  from  the  hand  of  God,  which  obliged  me  at  last 
to  become  captive  to  his  will."     In  this  undecided  state,  he 
turned  to  his  academical  teacher  (probably  Francke)  who  tried 
to  encourage  him  and  to  induce  him  to  give  up  the  idea  of 
abandoning  theology,  by  representing  to  him  how  much  both 
churches  and   schools  stood  in  need  of  active  workers  in  the 
Lord's  service.     In  this  conversation  they  spoke  of  sending 
preachers  of  the  Gospel  into  heathen  countries,  and  Ziegenbalg 
heard  his   teacher   make   a   remark    which  not   only  struck 
him  at  the  time,  but  of  which  he  retained  a  lively  recollection 
when  he  was  in  the  East  Indies.     "  If  one  can  truly  lead  a  soul 
to  God  from  amongst  that  people,"  said  the  worthy  man,  "  it 
is  as  much  as  winning  a  hundred  in  Europe,  for  these  latter 
have   each  day  means  and  opportunity  sufficient  for  their  con- 
version, while  the  former  are  entirely  without  them."    Ziegen- 
balg now   determined  not   to  give  up    theology,  but  he  was 
soon  obliged  to  leave  Halle  on  account  of  his   health,  and 
occupied  himself  in  teaching,  first  at  Merseburg  and  then  at 
Erfurt,  but  in  both  places  for  a  short  time  only.     He  then 
spent  a  year  with  his  sister  in  Pulsnitz,  and  went  from  thence 
to  Berlin  and  whilst  he  was  there  Liitkens'  letter,  asking  for 
Missionaries  to  be  employed  by  the  King  of  Denmark  arrived. 


—     21     — 

It  was  proposed  to  him  whether  he  would  like  to  take  up  this 
calling.  Ziegenbalg  without  refusing  tried  to  excuse  himself 
at  first  on  account  of  his  youth  and  delicate  health ;  but  the 
men,  in  whom  he  placed  the  most  confidence,  combated  his 
scruples,  and  he  soon  felt  himself  bound  in  conscience  to  go 
whithersoever  the  Lord  should  call  him.  It  was  a  great 
pleasure  to  him  that  his  school  -  and  university-friend  Heinrich 
jPliitschau,  decided  to  go  with  him.  The  cause  was  taken  up 
so  zealously  at  Copenhagen  that  they  did  not  even  receive 
permission  to  take  a  personal  adieu  of  their  friends.  In  October 
1705  they  went  from  Berlin  to  Copenhagen,  were  kindly 
received  by  the  King  and  Liitkens,  and  were  ordained  by 
Dr.  JBornemann,  Bishop  of  Zealand.*  However  their  short 
stay  in  Copenhagen  was  not  without  trials.  The  world  in 
general  was  quite  indifferent  to  the  undertaking,  or  else  declar- 
ed it  chimerical  and  useless,  and  laughed  at  their  zeal  and 
their  hopes  of  blessed  fruits  from  the  Mission.  The  two  young 
men  were  considered  as  well  meaning  enthusiasts,  and  their 
undertaking  as  adventurous  and  aimless.  Remain  in  the  country 
and  support  yourselves  honestly,  was  the  cry. 

Perhaps,  my  reader,  though  not  altogether  of  this  opinion 
you  may  after  what  you  have  heard  hitherto,  not  yet  feel  much 
confidence  in  Ziegenbalg  as  a  Missionary.  You  look  to  his  youth 
and  inexperience,  to  his  delicate  health  and  low  spirits,  and  you 
ask  :  "  Is  it  such  an  one  who  should  be  sent  to  the  heathen"? 
Delay  your  judgement  for  a  while  and  follow  him  into  the 
scene  of  his  labours.  You  will  find  him  both  capable  and  faith- 
ful. 


*  The  King's  Instruction  given  to  the  Missionaries,  we  shall  give  to  the  Public  in 
an  Appendix. 


CHAPTER  III. 

THE  FIRST  MESSENGERS  ARE  DESPATCHED  AND  ARRIVE  IN  INDIA— 
THE  PEOPLE  OF  TRANQUEBAR.— THE  MISSIONARIES  LEARN  THE 
LANGUAGES,  MAKE  PROSELYTES,  BUILD  A  CHURCH,  FOUND  SCHOOLS 

AND  ARE  PERSECUTED. 

"  Ontlie  2 9tli  of  November  1705,  we,  Heinricli  Pliitschau 
and  'Bartholomaus  Ziegenbalg,  under  the  good  Providence  of 
God  and  upon  the  gracious  command  of  His  Royal  Ma- 
jesty of  Denmark  and  Norway  King  Frederick  IV.  left 
Copenhagen  for  the  East  Indies,  as  the  first  Missionaries  to 
make  known  the  Gospel  of  Christ  to  the  heathen  on  the  Coro- 
mandel  Coast.  Many  gave  us  but  small  hopes  for  a  good  and 
blessed  issue  to  our  undertaking,  but  faith  in  an  all  -  powerful 
God  and  confidence  in  the  promises  of  his  holy  Word  comforted  us 
and  gave  us  courage  under  all  trials,  and  helped  us  by  degrees 
to  change  the  difficult  and  dangerous  voyage  into  a  blessing. r 

It  is  thus  that  the  Missionaries  begin  their  communication 
on  the  events  of  the  first  year.  The  ship  in  which  their 
passage  was  taken  was  the  Sophia  Hedeivig,  and  her  voyage 
was  considered  on  the  whole  a  good  one,  as  she  reached  the 
Cape  of  Good  Hope  in  April  1706,  where  they  made  their 
first  acquaintance  with  heathens  amongst  the  Hottentots. 
They  grieved  much  over  their  degraded  bodily  and  spiritual 
condition,  and  thought  that  by  God's  help  it  would  not  be 
impossible  to  learn  their  language  and  form  it  into  a  written 


23 


tongue ;  but  their  field  of  work  had  already  been  appointed  in 
another  place.  When  the  ship  sailed  from  the  Cape  they 
determined  each  to  choose  a  subject  for  his  meditations  during 
the  remainder  of  the  voyage,  so  as  to  use  the  time  to  edifica- 
tion. Pliitschau chose  Truth,  and  Ziegenbalg  Wisdom,  "for," 
says  he,  "  our  ship  was  called  the  Sophia,  which  means  Wisdom, 
and  our  employment  was  of  that  nature  that  we  ought  to 
know  where  true  Wisdom  was  to  be  found.  When  I  had 
meditated  daily  on  this  subject  for  a  month,  and  my  heart  had 
rejoiced  in  it  through  the  testimony  of  the  Holy  Scriptures, 
it  seemed  to  me  useful  and  edifying  that  such  good  thoughts 
should  be  put  into  writing  and  communicated  to  my  dear 
friends  in  my  Fatherland  as  a  standing  testimony  of  the  grace 
of  God,  who  by  his  heavenly  wisdom  had  carried  me  over 
the  great  Ocean  in  a  ship  which  had  become  a  school  to  me." 
Thus  began  the  tolerably  detailed  sketch  of  Ziegenbalg's 
treatise  on  true  Wisdom,  which  he  finished  after  his  arrival 
in  Tranquebar  when  he  was  ill  and  could  not  occupy  himself 
for  some  weeks  with  the  regular  work  of  the  Mission.  "  I 
wished,  "  said  he,  "  not  to  let  this  time  pass  over  uselessly,  but 
to  occupy  myself  with  such  things  as  should  keep  me  constant- 
ly ready  for  death.  I  remembered  how  the  meditation  on 
true  wisdom  had  given  me  great  peace  of  mind  while  at  sea, 
so  that  neither  the  roaring  of  the  wind,  the  rushing  of  the 
mighty  waves,  nor  the  cries  and  noise  of  the  crew  could 
disturb  my  thoughts,  but  that  by  God's  assistance  I  was  able 
to  keep  myself  in  such  a  condition  as  to  feel  always  prepared 
either  for  life  or  death ; — with  these  recollections  I  took  up 
my  meditations  again,  and  though  very  weak,  I  finished  them 
in  a  very  short  time."  The  preface  to  the  treatise,  from  which 
these  remarks  are  taken,  is  dated  Tranquebar  July  18th  1707. 


—     24     — 

It  was  dedicated  to  Princess  Sophia  Hedewig,  and  was  printed 
at  Leipzig  in  1710. 

On  the  dth  July  1706  the  two  first  Missionaries  arrived  at 
their  desired  haven,  Tranquebar,  and  landed  with  their  hearts 
deeply  moved  by  the  sight  of  the  crowds  of  pagans  for  whoso 
salvation  they  had  come  to  work.  They  found  however  amongst 
the  Danish  Merchants  and  Officials  not  only  no  sympathy  for 
their  undertaking,  but  a  cold  and  almost  inimical  reception. 
At  first  they  would  not  even  receive  the  Missionaries,  though 
they  could  show  the  King's  hand  and  seal,  but  left  them  till 
the  evening  in  the  burning  heat,  first  outside  the  gates  and 
then  in  the  market  place,  when  finally  the  Secretary,  Herr 
Attrup,  dared  to  take  them  in  and  secured  a  lodging  for  them 
in  the  house  of  his  father-in-law.  "  We  must  acknowledge,"  say 
the  Missionaries,  u  that  Prayer  was  our  all-important  assistance 
to  begin  our  high  and  weighty  employment  with  courage, 
without  fear  of  trouble  and  danger.  For  as  we  had  no  human 
being  near  us  of  whom  we  could  ask  advice  as  to  how  this 
or  that  should  be  begun,  we  went  always  to  our  dear  Father 
in  Heaven  and  laid  every  thing  before  him  in  prayer,  and  we 
were  heard  and  supported  by  him  both  in  advice  and  in  deed. 
If  we  asked  advice  of  any  one  here  in  India  we  were  even 
more  dissuaded  from  our  undertaking  than  we  had  been  in 
Europe,  for  the  impossibility  of  succeeding  in  our  aim  was 
always  held  up  to  us.  And  indeed  we  found  many  and  great 
difficulties,  and  when  we  considered  them  could  not  promise 
ourselves  any  entrance  amongst  the  heathen  ;  yet  we  did  not 
let  our  courage  sink,  but  read  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles  to 
strengthen  our  faith  and  would  not  neglect  any  means  which 
we  thought  might  be  useful  for  beginning  our  employment 
with  a  blessing." 


—     25     — 

We  will  now  consider  the  people  amongst  whom  the  Mis- 
sionaries were  to  live  and  commence  their  sphere  of  usefulness. 
"  The  inhabitants, "  says  Ziegenbalg,  a  consist  partly  of  white 
Europeans,  partly  of  Half-white  Portuguese,  partly  of  yellow 
Moors,  but  principally  of  black-brown  Malabarians.  I  do  not 
exactly  know  the  number  of  these  various  inhabitants,  but  I 
must  say  that  Tranquebar  is  a  well-peopled  town,  swarming 
with  old  and  young,  especially  as  its  trade  attracts  men  of  all 
nations  both  by  sea  and  land. '  Ziegenbalg  mentions  here  4 
classes  in  the  Danish  dominions  in  the  East  Indies,  and  amongst 
these  we  will  first  notice  the  larger  portion  of  the  population, 
"  the  black-brown  Malabarians."  This  is  the  name  by  which 
the  Hindus,  the  heathen  portion  of  the  population,  are 
generally  mentioned  in  the  Missionary  Reports.  Their  lan- 
guage is  Tamil,  which  has  long  been  formed  into  a  written 
language ; — they  write  their  books  and  letters  with  an  iron 
style  on  palm-leaves.  They  possess  authors  on  almost  all 
sciences,  and  are  expert  in  many  trades  and  handicrafts. 
"  Most  Christians  in  Europe,"  says  Ziegenbalg,  "  suppose  the 
Malabarians  to  be  a  very  barbarous  people,  but  this  arises 
from  the  Europeans  who  have  been  amongst  them  not  under- 
standing their  language,  so  that  they  have  not  been  able  to 
read  their  books,  but  have  drawn  their  conclusions  from  out- 
ward appearances.  I  must  acknowledge  that  when  I  first 
came  amongst  them  I  could  not  imagine  that  their  language 
had  proper  rules,  or  that  their  life  had  the  laws  of  civil  order, 
and  took  up  all  sorts  of  false  ideas  on  their  actions  as  if  they 
had  neither  a  civil  nor  a  moral  law, — but  as  soon  as  I  had 
gained  a  little  acquaintance  with  their  language  and  could 
talk  to  them  on  various  subjects,  I  began  to  have  a  much 
better  opinion  of  them  and   when  at  last  I  was  able  to  read 


—    26     — 

their  own  books  I  found  that  the  Malabarians  discussed  the 
same  philosophical  subjects  as  the  Savans  of  Europe,  and  that 
they  had  a  regular  written  law,  wherein  all  theological  subjects 
were  treated  of  and  demonstrated.  Thil  surprised  me  extre- 
mely, and  I  was  delighted  to  be  thoroughly  instructed  in  their 
heathenism  from  their  own  writings.  "  Ziegenbalg  relates 
that  the  Malabarians  were  well  aware  that  there  was  only  one 
Supreme  Being,  and  that  he  had  heard  a  Native  learned  man 
discourse  so  well  on  this  highest  Being  that  he  could  not 
refrain  from  asking  him  why  they  worshipped  many  gods, 
when  they  knew  so  well  that  there  was  but  One.  He  received 
the  following  answer:  "  A  schoolmaster  would  prove  himself 
very  perverted,  who  should  begin  teaching  his  scholars  to 
read  by  giving  them  a  difficult  poem ; — he  must  begin  with 
the  ABC.  So  it  is  with  the  knowledge  of  God  ;  one  must 
begin  with  the  little  gods  and  rise  up  step  by  step,  till  one 
reaches  the  highest  Being.  This  Being  does  not  trouble 
himself  about  this  earth,  but  has  created  other  great  gods, 
who  in  their  turn  have  smaller  gods  under  them,  by  whom 
everything  is  governed.  As  one  has  been  created  by  the 
gods,  and  received  many  benefits  from  them,  it  is  quite  right 
and  suitable  to  pray  to  them,  especially  as  in  the  end  the 
whole  of  the  honour  flows  to  the  highest  God.  So  think  the 
wise,  but  the  people  accept  the  whole  crowd  of  gods  without 
further  thought,  and  show  equal  reverence  to  any  of  the  330 
Million  gods  who  come  to  their  knowledge."  There  is  no 
unity  amongst  the  heathen  about  their  gods,  in  fact  there  are 
almost  as  many  opinions  as  there  are  heads.  The  gods  who 
have  the  most  worshippers  are  Brahma,  Vishnu  and  Siva. 

The  Malabarians  are,  as  is  well  known,  divided  into  castes, 
of  which  they  number  96.     Every  Native  belongs  to  a  caste 


—     27     — 

from  the  time  of  his  birth ;  even  their  Kings  have  not  the  pow- 
er to  change  a  man's  caste.  If  any  one  marries  out  of  his  own 
caste,  or  does  not  observe  its  manners  and  customs,  he  is  thrust 
out,  and  not  even  his  nearest  relation  will  have  any  thing  to 
do  with  him.  Of  the  principal  castes  we  may  mention :  the 
Brahmins ,  of  whom  consist  the  nobles  and  priests,  but  who 
sometimes  occupy  themselves  with  agriculture  and  keeping 
cattle; — the  Sudras  who  form  the  grade  of  merchants  and 
peasants,  and  carry  on  many  trades;  -and  the  Pariahs,  who  sup- 
port themselves  with  difficulty  by  hard  daily  labour,  and  by 
those  occupations  which  are  considered  disgraceful  by  other 
castes.  Whosoever  is  converted  to  Christianity  loses  his  caste. 
At  the  time  of  the  arrival  of  the  Missionaries  there  were  5 
great  Pagodas  or  heathen  Temples  in  the  town  of  Tranquebar. 
Next  to  the  Malabarians  we  will  mention  the  Portuguese, 
the  children  of  European  fathers  and  Native  mothers.  These 
people  have  been  called  Portuguese,  because  from  the  Por- 
tuguese having  once  possessed  the  dominion  of  the  East 
Indies,  their  language,  half  or  perhaps  altogether  corrupted, 
was  kept  up  amongst  those  Natives  who  were  in  the  closest  con- 
nection with  Europeans,  even  when  the  latter  were  of  a 
different  nation.  The  Portuguese  language  was  thus  the 
medium  of  communication  between  the  Europeans  and  the 
Natives,  for  few  Europeans  could  speak  Tamil,  and  many 
Natives,  especially  those  who  were  born  or  brought  up  in  the 
houses  of  Europeans  spoke  Portuguese  from  their  childhood, 
and  knew  but  little  of  their  mother  tongue.  This  class  gave 
up  the  Indian  and  adopted  the  European  style  of  dress.  They 
were  heathens,  unless  the  Europeans  on  whom  they  were 
dependant,  cared  to  have  them  baptized.  Before  the  arrival 
of  our  Missionaries  many  hundreds  had  joined  the    Roman 


—     28    — 

Catholic  communion,  but  many  became  members  of  the  Por- 
tuguese congregation,  which  the  Missionaries  founded.  Those 
who  were  not  in  the  service  of  Europeans  often  enlisted  as  soldiers 
or  sailors.  Their  colour  varied  according  to  their  degree  of  dis- 
tance from  European  blood.  Those  Natives  who  had  adopted 
the  European  dress  and  Portuguese  language  because  many 
generations  before  they  may  have  descended  from  an  European 
were  called  black  Portuguese. 

The  Missionary  Reports  speak  of  the  Mohammedans  as 
Moors,  because  the  Spanish  and  Portuguese  called  all  Moham- 
medans os  Muoros.  They  had  spread  themselves  from  Arabia 
over  the  whole  of  India,  where  they  were  very  numerous  and 
well  off  in  the  world.  Their  religion  was  not  only  paramount 
in  the  dominions  of  the  Great  Mogul,  but  was  tolerated  also 
in  the  countries  round  about.  The  Moors  filled  the  most 
important  political  and  military  posts  at  the  Courts  of  the 
heathen  Kings,  while  others  devoted  themselves  to  trade  and 
commerce  and  became  rich  merchants.  Ziegenbalg  declares 
that  all  the  Mohammedans  were  originally  foreigners,  and 
that  he  did  not  know  a  single  Malabar  Mohammedan.  Other 
Missionaries  on  the  contrary  make  a  distinction,  and  say 
that  there  are  two  Mohammedan  sects,  who  both  believe 
themselves  to  belong  to  the  Sunnites  or  Orthodox  ;  the  one,  the 
Tuluckens,  consisting  of  foreigners  and  the  other,  the  Sonagens 
or  native  Malabarians.  The  first  understand  Tamil,  but  make 
use  of  Hindostanee  in  speaking,  and  of  Persian  in  writing ; 
the  latter,  like  other  Malabarians,  speak  Tamil  and  Portuguese, 
but  in  their  schools  and  mosques,  they,  as  well  as  the  Tuluckens, 
use  Arabic.  The  Moors  were  more  favoured  by  nature  than 
the  Malabarians,  but  were  more  inimical  to  the  Christian 
religion  than  the  heathen.  Ziegenbalg  often  visited  them  and  they 


—    29     — 

liiin  ;  but  they  were  not  very  willing  to  listen  to  arguments, 
as  they  rested  on  the  fact  that  their  religion  was  the  most 
widely  spread  and  had  subdued  three  parts  of  the  earth,  on 
which  account  when  they  wrote  a  letter  they  cut  off  three 
corners  and  left  only  one  remaining,  as  a  type  of  possessing 
three  parts  of  the  world,  while  the  Christians  had  but  one. 
On  the  arrival  of  the  Missionaries  the  Moors  had  a  large 
mosque  in  Tranquebar,  and  several  in  the  village  of  Poreiar. 

In  speaking  at  last  of  the  Christians,  we  must  begin  with 
the  Roman  Catholic  Native  Congregation;  but  unfortunately 
there  is  no  detailed  account  of  its  rise  and  progress.  It  was 
probably  founded  in  the  17th  Century,  but  the  exact  year  and 
the  attendant  circumstances  cannot  be  given.  In  1763  when 
the  Jesuits  who  had  left  Pondichery  on  its  being  taken  by 
the  English  in  1761,  tried  to  establish  themselves  in  Tran- 
quebar, fruitless  enquiries  were  made  on  this  subject;  after  which 
the  Evangelical  Missionaries  say  that  some  time  before  the  be- 
ginning of  the  Danish  Mission,  the  Roman  Catholics  had  a 
Church  close  to  the  principal  gate  of  the  Fort  of  Tranquebar, 
within  the  town-wall.  The  exact  time  of  its  erection  they 
could  not  ascertain.  A  free  exercise  of  their  religion  is  said 
to  have  been  granted  to  the  Roman  Catholics  by  the  Company 
on  account  of  the  Portuguese  having  once  defended  the  town  ; 
but  the  Missionaries  could  not  gain  any  accurate  information 
on  this  point,  nor  learn  that  this  privilege  had  ever  received 
the  Royal  confirmation.  At  the  time  when  Attrup  was  the 
Commandant  (about  1726)  the  Roman  Catholics  received 
permission  to  build  a  Chapel  dedicated  to  St.  Xavier  in  the 
suburb  of  Sattankudi,  probably  because  Attrup's  wife  was  a 
Roman  Catholic.  I  cannot  find  any  mention  of  the  number 
of  the  Roman  Catholics  at  the  time  of  Ziegenbalg's  arrival, 


—     30     — 

but  only  that  they  were  governed  by  a  Padre  Vicarius,  who 
was  subordinate  to  the  Bishop  of  St.  Thome  or  Mailapur, 
whose  diocese  extended  over  the  whole  Coromandel  Coast  and 
Bengal.  The  Missionaries  make  constant  complaints  of  the 
ignorance  of  the  Roman  Catholics,  their  opposition  to  the 
Gospel,  and  unjustifiable  methods  of  making  proselytes. 

Tranquebar,  with  the  district  thereto  belonging,  in  which 
Ziegenbalg  mentions  15  villages,  belonged  originally  to  the 
Kingdom  of  Tanjore,  which,  as  he  says,  extended  24  German 
miles  in  length,  and  17  in  breadth.  The  King  of  Tanjore, 
who  was  himself  tributary  to  the  Great  Mogul,  received  an 
annual  tribute  from  the  Danes,  but  had  nothing  to  do  with  the 
Government  of  Tranquebar,  which  was  entirely  managed  from 
Denmark.  Consequently  there  were  some  Danish  Officials  and 
Employes  of  the  Company  who  formed  a  congregation  amongst 
themselves,  and  had  built  a  Church,  called  Zion,  to  which 
two  Pastors  were  appointed,  of  whom  Ziegenbalg  says  that 
they  preached  twice  a  week,  but  that  they  seldom  remained 
in  Tranquebar  more  than  two  or  three  years,  for  as  there  was 
a  clergyman  on  board  each  ship  that  arrived,  it  was  easy  for 
them  to  make  an  exchange.  But  this  was  not  the  case  with 
the  Danish  Pastor,  Jacob  Clementin,  who  came  out  the  second 
time  to  Tranquebar  with  the  Missionaries  in  1706,  and  remain- 
ed thereto  the  day  of  his  death  in  1730.  The  Colony  was 
governed  by  a  Commandant,  at  that  time  John  Sigismund 
Ilassius,  and  by  a  Council,  chosen  by  the  Company. 

Having  thus  made  a  slight  acquaintance  with  the  people 
amongst  whom  the  Missionaries  were  to  work,  let  us  now 
consider  how  they  began  their  work.  Of  course  the  language 
must  from  the  beginning  be  an  important  point  with  them, 
and  we  see  them  not  only  attacking  Portuguese,  which  from 


—     31     — 

its  resemblance  to  Latin  must  have  been  easy  to  them,  but 
also  Tamil,  which  was  quite  strange  to  them,  and  for  many 
reasons  must  have  been  extremely  difficult.  Six  days  after 
their  arrival  they  made  a  beginning  with  the  Portuguese. 
They  learnt  to  speak  this  language  as  it  is  spoken  in  Portugal 
from  books,  having  obtained  a  Grammar  and  a  New  Testament, 
printed  in  Batavia.  They  learnt  the  Indo-Portuguese  dialect 
by  daily  communication  with  the  people  about  them,  and  used 
it  for  viva  voce  instruction,  while  the  European  Portuguese 
being  employed  as  a  written  tongue  and  in  the  schools,  the 
congregation  by  degrees  became  accustomed  to,  and  learned 
to  understand  it. 

It  was  much  more  difficult  to  them  to  make  themselves 
masters  of  the  Tamil  language,  as  all  printed  and  written 
means  of  assistance  were  wanting,  and  at  first  they  could  not 
find  any  one  who  by  knowing  Tamil  as  well  as  some  language 
known  to  them,  could  become  their  teacher.  They  tried  it  in 
all  ways,  but  could  not  succeed.  At  last  after  some  months 
had  passed  away,  they  fell  in  with  an  old  Malabar  school- 
master, whom  they  took  into  their  service  and  agreed  that 
they  should  pay  him  a  certain  sum  for  bringing  his  school 
into  their  houses.  Both  schoolmaster  and  school-children  were 
heathens,  but  the  Missionaries  wished  to  observe  closely  how 
the  Malabarians  taught  children,  to  make  acquaintance  with  the 
young  people,  to  learn  what  they  could,  and  were  not  ashamed 
of  becoming  pupils  of  the  heathen  schoolmaster.  The  two  Mis- 
sionaries might  be  seen  amongst  the  children,  seated  on  the 
ground  and  like  them,  tracing  out  first  letters,  then  syllables 
and  finally  words,  in  the  sand.  Thus  they  learned  to  read,  to  write 
and  to  pronounce  a  number  of  words,  but  the  meaning  of  words 
was  unknown  to  them,  for  the  schoolmaster  did  not  understand 


—     32     — 

Portuguese.  It  became  therefore  an  important  point  to  find  an 
interpreter.  They  began  with  various  people  in  various 
ways,  but  without  success.  At  last  they  heard  that  in  the 
country,  not  far  from  Tranquebar,  there  was  a  learned 
Malabarian  of  the  name  of  Aleppa,  46  years  of  age,  who  not 
only  knew  different  Indian  languages,  but  also  from  daily 
communication  with  Europeans,  understood  Portuguese, 
Danish,  German  and  Dutch.  In  October  1706,  they  per- 
suaded him  to  take  service  with  them  in  Tranquebar,  where 
they  kept  him  for  two  years  at  a  considerable  expense.  Cer- 
tainly he  could  not  teach  them  the  language  grammatically, 
but  he  was  equal  to  explaining  the  meanings  of  words  and 
helping  them  to  understand  books  written  in  Tamil.  So  by 
degrees  they  gained  an  insight  into  the  Grammar.  Not  only 
did  they  read  Tamil  Manuscripts  every  day,  but  they  trans- 
lated from  German  into  Tamil  and  from  Tamil  into  German, 
and  had  a  Native  to  read  Tamil  to  them,  that  they  might  acquire 
a  correct  pronunciation.  "For  this  purpose,  "  says  Ziegenbalg, 
"  I  choose  such  books  as  I  should  wish  to  imitate  both  in 
speaking  and  writing.  I  have  had  such  authors  read  to  me  a 
hundred  times,  that  there  might  not  be  a  word  or  an  expres- 
sion which  I  did  not  know  and  could  not  imitate.  Indeed  in 
the  three  years  that  I  have  been  in  India,  I  have  scarcely 
read  a  German  or  Latin  book,  but  have  given  up  all  my  time 
to  reading  Malabar  books,  have  talked  diligently  with  the 
heathen,  and  executed  all  my  business  in  their  tongue,  so  that 
now  (1709)  it  is  as  easy  to  me  as  my  mother-tongue,  and  in 
the  last  two  years  I  have  been  enabled  to  write  several  books 
in  Tamil." 

One  cannot  but  admire  Ziegenbalg's  zeal  and  diligence 
in   mastering   this   foreign   language.     Two  years  after   his 


—     33     — 

arrival  he  was  able  to  send  Liitkens  his  Tamil  library,  which  is 
still  to  be  seen  in   manuscript  at  Halle.  He  describes  therein  a 
number  of  Tamil  books  which  he  divides  into  four  classes.  The 
first  class  contains  a  description  of  14  books  which  he  had 
himself  written  in  Tamil.  The  next  treats  of  21  books,  written 
by  Papist* authors,  that  is  Roman  Catholic  Missionaries,  who 
had  been~a  long  time  before  on  that  coast,  and  had  studied  the 
language.  Amongst  these  he  particularly  notices  one  for  the 
fluency  he  had  acquired,  whose  equal  had  not  since  appeared 
amongstthe  Papist  Missionaries,  "for  now,"  says  he,  "  there  are 
veryafew  amongst  them  who  trouble  themselves  much  about  the 
language,  or  could  compose  any  thing  in  it.  "    The  third  class 
treats  of  119  books  by  Hindus,  mostly  on  the  subject  of  their 
religion.    The  fourth  class  contains  11  books,  written  by  Mo- 
hammedan authors,   on  their  religion.     It  would  have   cost 
Ziegenbalg  many  hundred  dollars  to  have  all  these  copied  out ; 
but  the  greater  number  he  had  bought,  for  which  purpose  he 
used  to  send  his  Malabar  writer  many  days'  journey  into  the 
country.    In  this  way  he  discovered  how  books  were  to  be  ob- 
tained, and  found  that  the  widows  of  Brahmins  would  sell  them 
for  a  mere  trifle.  When  Ziegenbalg  first  began  to  read  Tamil  books, 
he  had  three  persons  with  him; — the  above-named  translator, 
Aleppa,  whom  he  afterwards  dispensed  with  and  gave  up  to  his 
colleagues ;  a  native  poet,  who  enlarged  upon  the  histories  which 
they  read,  and  explained  the  difficulties  in  poetry,  and  finally, 
a  Malabar  writer,  who  was  to  write  down  all  words  and  ex- 
pressions which  he  had  not  met  with  in  other  books.   Thus  be- 
gan Ziegenbalg's  Malabar  Dictionary,  wrhich  in  the  course  of 
two  years  contained  20,000  words  and  expressions;  one  column 
in  Tamil  characters,  one  in  Roman  type  written  according  to 
the  pronunciation,  and  a  third  with  the  meaning  in  German. 

4 


—     34     — 

He  not  only  read  historical,  theological  and  philosophical  writings, 
but  also  medical  and  philological,  in  order  to  find  words  for  his 
Dictionary.  When  4  years  later  this  Lexicon  had  grown  to  40,000 
words  and  expressions,  it  was  arranged  according  to  the  Tamil 
alphabet,  so  that  the  derived  and  compound  words  might  be 
found  near  their  source.  He  collected  moreover  a  poetical 
Dictionary  of  17,000  words  out  of  all  kinds  of  poetical  writings, 
under  the  guidance  of  experienced  Tamil  poets.  "  This  Diction- 
ary, "  says  he,  (i  will  help  me  but  little  when  I  read  and  preach 
the  word  of  God,  but  it  is  a  key  to  all  poetical  books,  and  as  I 
take  great  trouble  to  understand  the  worship  of  the  heathen 
from  their  own  books,  and  wish  much  to  prove  their  errors 
therefrom,  necessity  obliges  me  to  venture  so  far  into  the  poet's 
domain.  When,  as  often  happens,  the  poets  of  the  country  visit 
me,  or  I  them,  one  hears  little  but  verses  from  their  mouth  in 
confirmation  of  their  teaching.  It  is  therefore  necessary  for  me 
to  understand  them,  so  as  to  be  able  to  oppose  them  thoroughly". 
Of  the  poetical  language  he  says,  that  there  is  as  much 
difference  between  it  and  that  employed  in  daily  life,  as  be- 
tween Latin  and  German.  Ziegenbalg  considered  his  Dictionaries 
as  great  treasures  not  so  much  on  account  of  the  great  care 
and  trouble  that  he  had  spent  on  them,  as  in  the  consideration 
of  the  uses  to  which  they  might  be  put,  uses,  for  which  he 
hoped  that  with  God's  blessing,  they  would  become  invaluable. 
But  though  it  was  thus  necessary  for  the  Missionaries  to 
learn  both  Tamil  and  Portuguese,  yet  they  did  not  so  devote 
themselves  to  their  acquisition  as  to  forget  the  people  who  spoke 
them;  neither  were  they  of  opinion  that  a  thorough  acquaintance 
with  the  language  must  necessarily  precede  all  Missionary  work. 
In  November  1 706,  they  began  to  catechise  in  Portuguese,  and 
in  Tamil  in   January  of  the  following  year.   Thev  taught  the 


35 


Catechumens  daily  for  two  hours  in  the  house  where  they  lodged; 
using  the  New  Testament  and  a  Catechism  printed  in  Portuguese 
by  the  Dutch  in  Batavia.  They  altered  this  Catechism,  and 
were  very  soon  able  to  write  or  translate  the  necessary  books 
for  themselves.  They  first  translated  the  five  principal  heads  of 
Luther's  Catechism  without  explanation,  and  afterwards  com- 
pleted the  whole.  They  also  preached  in  the  German  language 
to  Europeans  both  in  their  own  house,  and  every  Wednesday 
in  Zion  Church  with  the  consent  of  the  Commandant  and  the 
Danish  pastors.  By  their  faithful  preaching  of  the  word  of 
God,  a  great  movement  arose  amongst  the  Christians  as  well 
as  amongst  the  Mohammedans  and  Pagans.  The  house  of  the 
Missionaries  was  always  filled  with  listeners,  but  opposition 
arose  both  amongst  Christians  and  Heathens.  The  Missionaries 
now  divided  the  work,  so  that  each  should  take  one  language; 
Ziegenbalgtook  Tamil,  and  Pliitschau  Portuguese;  yet,  as  a  sub- 
ordinate occupation,  each  was  to  occupy  himself  with  the  lan- 
guage of  the  other.  They  translated  many  prayers  and  hymns  in- 
to both  languages;  the  hymns  partly  arranged  according  to  Eu- 
ropean choral  melodies,  partly  in  such  Tamil  verses,  that  they 
might  be  sung  after  the  native  manner.  The  first  baptism  took 
place  in  May  1707,  when  five  slaves  who  could  speak  Portuguese 
were  baptized  in  Zion  Church,  after  undergoing  an  examination. 
The  Missionaries  now  began  to  feel  the  want  of  some  place 
where  they  could  every  week  receive  those  on  whom  they  might 
confer  the  rite  of  Christian  baptism.  At  first  they  only  thought 
of  erecting  a  small  school-house  outside  the  town,  but  after- 
wards they  thought  it  better  to  build  a  small  church,  for  which 
the  authorities  pointed  out  a  place  to  them  in  the  town  amongst 
the  heathen.      But  the  worst  was,  that  they  had  very  small 

means  for  building  it,  and  they  could  not  look  for  help  to  Den- 

-l  *  ' 


—     36     — 

mark  or  Germany,  for  a  ship  which  arrived  about  this  time — 
the  first  after  the  arrival  of  the  Missionaries — not  only  brought 
them  no  assistance,  but  not  even  an  encouraging  letter,  so  that 
it  seemed  the  time  for  giving  up  what  they  had  begun  rather 
than  for  building  churches,  and  indeed  many  advised  them  to 
do  so.  But  Ziegenbalg  was  so  confident  in  his  cause,  that  though 
he  might  appear  abandoned  for  a  time  he  would  not  give  up 
either  the  one  or  the  other.  "  We  began,"  he  writes,  "  in  great 
poverty,  but  in  firm  trust  and  confidence  in  God,  to  build  in  a 
great  heathen  street  in  the  city,  and  though  we  did  not  know 
how  we  should  bring  the  work  to  a  conclusion,  God  so  strength- 
ened  our  faith  amidst  all  obstacles,  that  we  spent  upon  it  all 
that  we  could  save  from  our  salaries"  (the  King  had  granted  to 
each  a  yearly  salary  of  200  Six  -  dollars)  "  and  whatever  we  had 
laid  up  before.  Many  mocked  us  but  some  were  moved  to  pity 
and  to  helping  us.  Thus  this  house  of  assembly  was  carried  on 
with  all  speed,  30  persons,  who  were  all  heathens,  working  at 
it  daily.  On  the  4th  of  August  1707  (exactly  two  months  after 
laying  the  first  stone)  it  was  consecrated  in  both  languages,  in 
the  presence  of  a  great  number  of  Christians,  Mohammedans 
and  Heathens,  and  the  church  received  the  name  of  u  New 
Jerusalem.  "   They  now  preached  there  twice  every  Sunday  on 
the  articles  of  faith,  both  in  the  Tamil  and  Portuguese  tongues. 
On  Fridays  and  Sundays,  and  afterwards  on  Wednesdays  also, 
they  catechised  on  Luther's  Catechism,  or  on  subjects  in  con- 
nection with  it.    The  Epistles,  Gospels  and  Collects  were  also 
brought  into  use,  and  almost  at  every  service  there  were  many 
heathens  present  who  did  not  regularly  belong  to  the  con- 
gregation (which  had  grown  to  35  persons  by  the  end  of  the 
year)  but  stood  to  listen  at  the  doors  and  windows.   Simultane- 
ously with  the  beginning  of  the  church,  the  Danish  Ritual  was 


—     37     — 

translated  into  Tamil  and  Portuguese,  so  that  as  soon  as  the 
church  was  finished,  they  had  formularies  for  the  sacraments 
and  ecclesiastical  ordinances.  On  the  5th  September  the  sacra- 
ment of  Baptism  was  administered  for  the  first  time  in  New 
Jerusalem  Church,  and  the  Holy  Supper  was  partaken  of 
on  the  same  day.  Before  the  end  of  the  year  schools  were  also 
erected,  one  Dano-Portuguese,  with  a  master  who  understood 
Danish,  German  and  Portuguese,  under  Plutschau's  superin- 
tendence, and  the  other  a  Tamil  school  under  Ziegenbalg  with 
a  baptised  native  teacher.  In  both  they  gave  food,  drink,  clothes, 
and  books  to  the  children.  "  Though  this,  like  every  thing  else," 
writes  Ziegenbalg,  "was  begun  with  great  want  of  funds, 
yet  God  has  never  put  our  faith  and  confidence  in  Him  to 
shame;  for  we  have  never  been  obliged  to  give  up  any  of  these 
institutions,  though  we  were  often  hard  pressed,  and  many  a 
time  knew  not  in  the  evening  how  we  should  provide  for  the 
next  day." 

At  last  a  ship  arrived  from  Denmark  in  the  middle  of  the 
summer  of  1708.  The  Missionaries  found  that  but  half  the  pro- 
mised 2000  Rix-dollars  was  on  board;  the  other  half  with  their 
letters  had  been  put  on  board  another  ship,  which  had  been 
wrecked,  and  though  the  money  had  been  saved  from  it,  it  had 
been  taken  back  to  Denmark;  still  the  1000  Dollars  would  have 
been  of  the  greatest  use  to  them  in  their  career  of  wide-spread 
activity; — but  in  landing  part  of  the  cargo  from  the  ship,  the 
Mission-money  sunk  to  the  bottom  and  was  never  seen  again. 
At  a  time  when  a  door  seemed  opened  for  the  word  in  all  di- 
rections, though  the  messengers  were  in  great  necessity  and  want, 
it  must  have  been  a  hard  trial  to  see  the  expected  help  from 
Denmark  sink  to  the  bottom  of  the  sea; — but  it  seems  to  have 
caused  no  vexation  to  the  Commandant  and  his  attaches,  who 


—     38     — 

pointed  out  to  Ziegenbalg  that  they  had  always  been  right  in 
saying,  that  Heaven  was  very  high  above  our  heads  and  Copen- 
hagen very  far  off.  At  the  same  time  a  messenger  came  to 
the  Missionaries  from  the  Roman  Catholic  Christians  in  Tanjore, 
requesting  them  to  assist  them,  as  they  were  suffering  from  a 
great  persecution  and  had  now  neither  churches  nor  priests,  so 
that  many  of  them  wished  to  come  and  settle  in  Tranquebar: — 
but  twice  was  Ziegenbalg  obliged  to  let  such  messengers  depart, 
without  being  able  to  arrange  any  thing  for  them.  He  was  him- 
self persecuted,  and  was  glad  to  be  able  to  begin  the  translation 
of  the  New  Testament  by  the  end  of  the  year  1708,  a  work, 
which  though  it  required  the  whole  force  of  his  mind,  was  be- 
gun very  quietly  and  without  observation.  But  he  had  scarcely 
reached  the  23rd  chapter  of  the  Gospel  according  to  St.  Mat- 
thew, when  on  the  19th  November  1708,  he  was  arrested  and 
passed  four  months  in  the  Castle  Prison. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

ZIEGENBALG  IN  PRISON.— HELP  IN  NEED.— ZIEGENBALG  IS  ATTACKED 
AS  A  FALSE  APOSTLE  IN  A  GERMAN  UNIVERSITY.—  THE  HISTORY  OF 

GRUENDLER'S  YOUTH. 

It  is  not  quite  clear  what  excuse  the  Commandant  could 
have  brought  forward  for  placing  so  quiet,  modest  and  unassu- 
ming a  man  as  Ziegenbalg  in  prison.   We  must  be  satisfied  with 
some  explanations  of  Ziegenbalg's  in  an  unprinted  Manuscript 
which  are  not  quite  so  colourless  and  indefinite  as  those  that 
were  printed  at  Halle.  "  God  gave  his  rich  blessing  to  all  that 
we  began  in  his  name,"  writes  he,  "and  yet  we  had  a  determined 
opposition,    not  on]y  from  the  heathen,  but  also    from    the 
European  Christians;   even  the  Commandant  and  the  whole 
Privy  Council  were  quite  opposed  to  us,  so  that  not  only  did 
they  not  assist  us  in  any  point,  but  tried  in  every  way  to 
impede  the  holy  work.     Our   congregations   were   increased 
weekly,  and  Heathens,  Mohammedans  and  Christians  were 
constrained  to  acknowledge  that  such  a  work  was  from  God, 
but  the  authorities  here  would  not  acknowledge  it  to    be  so, 
but  acted  in  such  a  manner  from  their  hatred  and  envy,  that 
even  the  heathen  were  vexed.    The  more  we  spoke  the  truth 
the  more  were  we  persecuted,  so  that  at  last  it  seemed  as  if 
they  wished  to  exterminate  both  us  and  our  congregations." 

Ziegenbalg  found  himself  obliged  at  last  to  apply  directly 
to  the  King  for  protection  not  only  for  himself,  but  also  for 
his  congregation,  which  in  the  space  of  two  years  and  a  half 


—     40     — 

had  increased  to  100  persons,  beside  those  who  were  being 
prepared  for  Baptism.  Unassuming  and  modest  as  he  was  and 
well  as  he  had  learned  patiently  to  bear  mockery  and  persecu- 
tion of  all  kinds,  he  was  not  afraid  of  speaking  the  truth  freely 
and  of  defending  his  rights  when  he  considered  it  to  be  his 
duty,  especially  when  he  was  called  upon  by  the  helpless 
against  the  unjust  decisions  of  men  in  power.  Such  a  case 
occurred  when  a  poor  widow,  to  whose  complicated  difficulties 
the  Commandant  would  not  listen,  begged  Ziegenbalg  for  his 
assistance.  The  Commandant  was  so  angry  with  him  for  this, 
that  he  broke  out  into  open  threats.  Ziegenbalg  feared  the 
worst,  but  waited  in  full  confidence  in  God  and  his  good  cause 
for  the  issue.  He  wrote  to  the  Commandant  offering  to  stand 
by  the  result  of  a  fair  trial,  appealed  to  the  King  as  his  highest 
judge,  declared  himself  quite  willing  to  submit  to  the  appointed 
authorities,  but  added  an  earnest  warning.  Upon  this  he  was 
publicly  carried  off  like  a  criminal  by  armed  men,  put  in  prison, 
and  so  closely  guarded  by  soldiers,  that  no  one  was  allowed  to 
see  him  or  speak  to  him.  Before  he  left  his  room,  he  fell  on 
his  knees  and  prayed  aloud  with  such  fervour  that  it  made  a 
great  impression  even  on  his  guards  and  their  leader.  Comfort- 
ed and  courageous  he  then  accompained  them,  and  consecrated 
his  prison  with  hymns  and  prayers.  It  grieved  him  most  to  re- 
flect that  even  if  the  Mission  were  not  altogether  stopped  by 
this  tyrannical  manner  of  acting,  it  must  be  much  injured,  that 
many  who  were  in  the  act  of  joining  the  Evangelical  congre- 
gation would  be  frightened  away,  and  that  those  who  had  an- 
nounced themselves  as  candidates  for  Baptism,  would  draw 
back.  "  The  tyrannical  hearts,"  says  Ziegenbalg  "raged  and 
roared  till  they  had  almost  scattered  our  congregation;  but 
there  were  many  who  pitied  our  situation  even  to  hot  tears, 


—    41     — 

and  prayed  for  us  without  ceasing."  The  anger  and  cruelty 
of  the  Commandant  even  went  so  far  as  to  deny  pen,  ink,  and 
paper  to  the  innocent  prisoner,  and  still  more  a  writer,  by 
whose  help  he  most  heartily  desired  to  continue  his  translation 
of  the  New  Testament.  He  therefore  chose  a  subject  from  the 
word  of  God  on  which  to  meditate,  namely,  the  ministry;— 
and  he  found  great  joy  and  comfort  in  considering  how  all  the 
men  of  God  both  in  the  Old  and  New  Testaments  had  been 
persecuted  for  their  faithfulness  and  veracity,  and  imprisoned 
and  killed  as  traitors  and  leaders  of  sedition.  He  wished  much 
to  write  down  some  of  these  thoughts,  but  as  that  could  not  be, 
he  sought  by  prayer  and  holy  meditation  to  gather  strength 
for  the  future.  u  When  I  had  thus  spent  a  month  in  delight- 
ful communion  with  God,  "  he  writes,  "  I  was  woken  in  the 
night  by  my  guard,  and  asked  whether  I  should  like  to  have  a 
lead  pencil.  I  looked  upon  this  as  an  extraordinary  direction 
from  God  and  said  that  it  would  be  very  useful  to  me,  but 
that  I  had  no  paper  to  write  on.  Then  the  person  standing  near 
me  gave  me  a  black  book  of  white  paper,  and  told  me  that  all 
the  inhabitants  of  the  town,  Christians  as  well  as  Heathen,  felt 
sincere  sympathy  with  me."  He  accepted  this  fulfilment  of  his 
wishes  as  coming  from  the  hand  of  God  and  immediately  be- 
gan to  write  out  his  meditations  on  the  work  of  the  ministry. 
The  cruelty  of  man  made  him  but  the  more  anxious  to  write 
pure  truth,  as  he  found  it  both  in  the  word  of  God  by  the  en- 
lightening influence  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  in  his  own  ex- 
perience. He  finished  this  work  which  is  now  unprinted  in  the 
library  at  Halle,  during  seven  weeks  of  his  imprisonment. 
Beside  the  Preface,  Introduction  and  Biography  there  are  717 
closely  written  Quarto  pages. 

Unjustly  and  cruelly  as  he  was  treated,  Ziegenbalg  show- 


—     42     — 

ed  so  little  bitterness  towards  his  persecutors  that  he  wished 
them  a  happy  New  Year  from  his  prison  without  reminding 
them  of  his  position.  The  Commandant  took  this  in  good  part 
and  asked  him  whether  he  could  serve  him  in  any  thing.  Zie- 
genbalg  only  asked  for  his  Malabar  writer  to  enable  him  to 
continue  his  translation  of  the  New  Testament.  Meanwhile 
without  his  intervention,  a  third  party  was  arranging  an  agree- 
ment. On  this  he  declared  that  he  must  send  a  true  account 
of  all  to  Copenhagen,  as  in  duty  bound  by  his  instructions,  but 
he  added  in  a  letter  to  the  Commandant  and  the  Council  that 
he  was  very  far  from  feeling  any  personal  hatred,  and  was 
quite  willing  to  knit  together  the  bonds  of  peace  and  unity. 
He  continues,  u  I  declare  before  the  omniscient  God,  before 
my  most  gracious  King  and  the  whole  of  evangelical  Christ- 
endom, that  I  am  pure  and  guiltless  from  the  blood  of  those 
heathens,  wTho  may  have  been  ruined  by  the  withdrawal  of  my 
ministry.  Ah,  consider  what  you  are  doing,  you  are  not  fight- 
ing against  me  but  against  God  and  your  King."  He  concludes 
thus,  "  From  all  this  you  may  see  that  I  harbour  no  ill  feeling 
against  you,  but  also  that  I  have  no  fear  of  you,  and  that  I  can 
write  the  truth  in  godly  joy  in  my  prison  as  I  used  to  do  in 
freedom,  and  I  hope  that  I  shall  continue  in  this  happy  courage 
so  long  as  I  am  defending  the  truth,  and  not  my  own  person. 
Meanwhile  though  you  have  forbidden  me  many  things  which 
I  have  requested  of  you,  you  have  not  been  able  to  prevent  me 
from  praying  for  you,  neither  will  you  be  able  to  forbid  it  for 
the  future." 

The  natural  result  of  so  presumptuous  a  letter  from  a  pri- 
soner was  that  he  remained  where  he  was.  He  was  rejoiced, 
however,  by  the  news  that  his  friend  and  colleague  Pliitschau 
was  working  with  great  courage  in  the  congregation,  and  keep- 


—     43     — 

ing  every  thing  up  as  well  as  he  could.  As  soon  as  he  had  finish- 
ed his  work  on  the  Ministry,  he  began  another  on  Christianity, 
which  also  lies  unprinted  at  Halle.  He  had  not  yet  finished 
this  when  he  was  informed  that  his  opponents  were  ready  to  go 
to  any  extremes:  then,  thought  he,  I  will  go  to  extremes  in  love; 
and  invited  the  Commandant  and  his  wife  to  come  to  see  him 
in  prison,  when  he  showed  them  so  much  friendliness  and  re- 
spect, that  the  Commandant  could  no  longer  keep  up  his  ill 
feeling  towards  him.  The  first  agreement  was  that  they  should 
talk  over  the  truth  with  sincerity  and  without  bitterness.  This 
took  place,  they  were  reconciled,  and  separated  with  friendly 
words.  Not  long  after  Ziegenbalg  was  publicly  released  from 
confinement,  and  received  with  great  joy  by  his  congregation. 
He  closes  his  detailed  account  of  these  events,  which  were  in- 
deed very  disagreeable  to  himself  and  his  friends,  but  which 
brought  a  blessing  on  himself  and  on  the  Mission,  with  an  ex- 
hortation to  the  reader,  and  with  a  prayer  in  which  he  thanks 
God  for  all  the  mercy  He  has  shown  him,  and  vows  to  serve 
Him  truly  during  the  remainder  of  his  life. 

After  this  the  Missionaries  passed  five  very  anxious  months. 
Their  school-children  must  be  fed,  their  servants  must  be  paid, 
and  they  themselves  must  live,  and  yet  they  received  no  money; 
even  their  salary  was  for  some  time  withheld.  Their  only  re- 
source was  to  call  upon  God  in  prayer.  This  they  did  faithfully 
and  the  Lord  helped  them  faithfully.  A  person,  from  whom 
they  had  least  expected  it,  brought  them  40  Rix-dollars  on  the 
condition  that  they  should  repay  them  as  soon  as  the  ship  should 
arrive  from  Denmark,  and  some  one  else  lent  them  20  dollars 
on  the  same  conditions.  In  this  way  they  collected  200  dollars 
from  different  quarters,  and  did  not  suffer  from  actual  want 
though  it  was  close  to  their  door; — but  on  the  20th  of  July  they 


__     44     — 

experienced  how  the  Lord  not  only  gives  his  people  their  daily 
bread,  but  abundance  also,  when  they  are  able  to  bear  it.  A 
ship  arrived  from  Denmark  bringing  them  many  friendly  and 
comfortable  letters,  and  3000  Rix-dollars  of  money  and  3  new 
fellow-labourers,  of  whom  one,  Johann  JEmst  Grilndler,  be- 
came one  of  the  most  active  workers  in  the  Tranquebar  Mission 
and  Ziegenbalg's  right  hand.  The  troubles  which  they  had  un- 
dergone, and  the  great  assistance  which  thus  reached  them  will 
be  best  pictured  by  Ziegenbalg's  Preface  to  his  book  on  Christia- 
nity, which  was  written  on  the  20th  of  August  1709. 

u  My  dear  Colleague  and  I  were  much  comforted  in  our 
troubles  in  this  heathen  land^  by  learning  on  the  arrival  of  a 
ship  that  there  were  many  people  in  Europe  who  rejoiced  that 
the  light  of  the  Gospel  had  risen  upon  the  heathen,  that  they 
prayed  to  God  for  its  blessed  progress,  and  that  they  had  set 
themselves  with  much  zeal  to  give  us  a  helping  hand  by  exter- 
nal means  towards  the  conversion  of  the  heathen,  for  which 
aim  many  pious  hearts  both  in  Denmark  and  Germany  had 
collected  a  rich  provision  and  sent  it  to  the  care  of  us  unwor- 
thy servants.  May  God  be  eternally  praised  and  blessed  for  such 
unspeakable  mercy,  by  which  he  has  refreshed  and  comforted 
us  in  our  hard  trials  and  persecutions.  It  had  seemed  before  as 
if  we  were  forsaken  by  all  men,  and  as  if  not  a  soul  in  Europe 
thought  of  us,  for  we  had  been  expecting  letters  for  three  years 
and  had  not  received  any.  But  when  we  found  by  many  letters 
that  many  thousand  souls  had  thought  of  us,  and  exerted  them- 
selves for  the  progress  of  the  holy  Gospel  amongst  the  heathen, 
and  had  sent  us  such  a  rich  provision  as  a  mark  of  their  hear- 
ty love,  our  joy  was  so  exuberant  that  we  could  not  express  it 
in  words.  As  David  says,  "Unto  the  upright  there  ariseth  light 
in  the  darkness:  from  him  that  is  gracious,  and  full  of  compassion, 


—     45     — 

and  righteous."  Things  had  come  to  such  a  pass  with  us,  that  it 
appeared  to  the  eyes  of  all  men  as  if  all  that  we  had  undertaken 
must  fall  to  the  ground.  For  we  were  so  hemmed  in  on  all  sides, 
every  exterior  means  was  so  cut  off  from  us,  that  very  often 
we  had  not  a  farthing  in  the  house  for  the  support  of  our  Mala- 
bar and  Portuguese  school-children  or  of  ourselves.  Instead  of 
any  pity  being  shown  towards  us,  every  opportunity  for  per- 
secuting us  was  eagerly  seized,  until  at  last  I  was  imprisoned 
for  the  sake  of  the  truth  for  four  months.  The  people  who  ought 
to  have  assisted  my  colleague  in  working  in  Tamil,  were  driven 
out  of  the  town.  Some  of  our  congregation  were  forbidden  un- 
der pain  of  punishment  to  attend  our  Church  again.  All  the 
heathens  were  frightened  away  from  us,  so  that  though  they 
perceived  the  injustice,  and  felt  some  pity  for  us,  they  did  not 
dare  to  speak  to,  or  hold  any  familiar  communion  with  us. 
Even  the  greater  part  of  the  European  Christians  were  for- 
bidden under  pain  of  punishment  to  come  into  our  houses  or 
churches,  or  hold  any  intercourse  with  us.  Thus  our  congre- 
gation was  entirel  y  destroyed,  and  it  was  a  work  of  time  to 
re-assemble  it.  The  name  of  Grod  and  Evangelical  religion  were 
blasphemed  amongst  Heathens  and  Christians.  In  fact — our 
sufferings  and  persecutions  were  so  severe,  that  unless  God  had 
stood  by  us  in  a  supernatural  way  and  supported  us  by  His  con- 
solation, we  could  not  long  have  held  out  against  such  troubles. 
It  would  not  so  have  cut  us  to  the  heart  had  we  been  persecut- 
ed by  Heathens  and  Mohammedans  as  witnesses  to  the  truth, 
but  that  those  who  laid  their  hands  on  us  should  have  been 
Lutherans  and  sworn  subjects  of  our  King,  who  ought  to  have 
found  pleasure  in  assisting  us  zealously  in  our  work,  this  was 
very  painful  and  cost  us  many  tears.  What  then  befell  me  in 
my  zeal  for  the  ministry,  I  now  see  to  have  been  a  beneficial 


—     46     — 

trial  from  God,  and  have  experienced,  that  God  has  turned  it 
all  to  my  advantage,  while  my  imprisonment  in  the  East  Indies 
has  been  as  a  bell  ringing  far  and  wide  throughout  Europe  to 
awaken  many  thousand  souls  to  compassionate  us  and  our  young 
and  growing  Christian  community.  And  as  God  allowed  me  to 
prepare  two  books  in  my  prison  without  the  knowledge  of  my 
enemies,  namely,  on  the  Ministry  which  is  pleasing  to  God,  and 
on  the  Christianity  which  is  pleasing  to  God,  I  have  thought 
it  right  to  dedicate  the  first  to  all  true  Teachers  and  Witnesses 
of  the  truth  in  Denmark  and  Germany,  but  particularly 
to  those  highly-beloved  Fathers  who  have  contributed  so  much 
to  the  promotion  of  the  holy  work  amongst  the  heathens:  and 
the  second  to  all  true  Christians  and  children  of  God  in  Den- 
mark and  Germany,  but  particularly  to  you,  my  beloved  friends 
and  brethren,  who  out  of  your  hearty  love  have  contributed  so 
rich  a  sum  towards  the  planting  of  the  Christian  religion  amongst 
the  heathen.  May  the  Lord  reward  you  for  such  love  and  mer- 
cy, may  he  bless  your  hearts  and  fill  them  with  spiritual  gifts. 
May  he  increase  within  you  his  knowledge,  his  grace,  his  love, 
and  let  you  find  mercy  in  the  time  of  your  need.  Ah !  my  Brethren 
and  Friends  in  the  Lord;  let  us  be  closely  bound  together  in 
the  bonds  of  love.  Do  not  tire  in  the  further  promotion  of  this 
work.  Think  of  the  overflowing  mercy  which  God  has  shown  to 
you,  that  he  saved  your  fathers  from  a  blind  heathenism,  and 
brought  them  to  the  saving  knowledge  of  Jesus  Christ,  in  which 
you  now  stand  and  enjoy  so  many  of  the  gracious  gifts  of  God. 
Think  of  this  and  consider  what  a  suitable  opportunity  is  now 
offered  you  for  proving  your  gratitude.  When  you  see  us  so 
happy  in  this  work,  that  we  are  willing  to  suffer  any  troubles, 
yea  even  to  lose  our  lives  for  the  sake  of  the  heathen,  you  must 
acknowledge  that  the  finger  of  God  is  with  us.   Let  your  faith 


—     47     — 

be  active  in  love,  and  prove  to  us  by  your  contributions  that 
you  take  pleasure  in  magnifying  the  name  of  our  God 
amongst  strange  nations  in  distant  countries.  Be  our  fellow-work- 
ers amongst  the  heathen,  that  we  may  together  enjoy  the  bless- 
ings resulting  therefrom  throughout  eternity.  Seek  with  us  to 
fight  the  good  fight  of  faith,  till  we  overcome  all,  and  gain  a 
crown  of  life.    Your  fellow-worker  in  Jesus  Christ  with  much 

faith  and  love 

Bartholomaus  Ziegenbalg. ' 

We  have  now  seen  how  much  the  Missionaries  suffered 
from  the  opposition  of  nominal  Christians  in  India,  but  it  will 
scarcely  be  believed  that  at  the  same  time  they  did  not  get  on 
much  better  in  Europe.  In  the  year  1708  when  they  were  in 
the  greatest  trouble  and  Ziegenbalg  in  prison,  there  was  a  pub- 
lic disputation  at  Wittenberg  de  Pseudo-Apostolis  under  the  pre- 
sidency of  Dr.  Neumann,  of  which  we  will  give  an  extract,  so 
that  the  reader  may  compare  what  was  said  there  of  our  Tran- 
quebar  Missionaries  with  the  true  state  of  affairs  with  which  he 
has  already  been  made  acquainted. 

"  That  the  office  of  the  Apostles  ceased  with  the  Apostles 
is  well  known;  hut  false  Apostles  have  not  disappeared;  on  the 
contrary  in  our  times  they  have  broken  into  the  Church  in 
crowds.  Almost  all  are  of  opinion  that  new  Apostles  are  to  be 
sent  out  before  the  last  days,  who  are  to  make  known  the  Gos- 
pel  to  the  world,  or  more  properly  speaking  shall  trumpet  forth 
their  fictitious  blessed  kingdom.  It  was  they  who,  not  long 
ago,  went  through  Belgium,  England,  France  and  Italy.  Some 
have  gone  to  Pensylvania,  Russia,  some  to  Constantinople,  some 
to  Smyrna  and  some  to  Corinth;  but  everywhere  they 
are  far  remved  from  the  footsteps  of  the  Apostles,  as  they  use 
their  religion  as  a  means  of  gain.   Lately  a  pair  of  Brothers  has 


—     48     — 

sailed  off  to  Malabar,  whether  from  their  own  impulse,  or  as 
they  aver,  by  the  order  of  His  Majesty  the  King  of  Denmark, 
I  cannot  say.  But  as  they  had  opposed  themselves  to  the  Copen- 
hagen theologians  before  their  departure,  and  as  they  declared 
that  they  would  not  unite  with  the  servants  of  the  word,  who 
had  already  assembled  a  church  in  Tranquebar,  one  cannot 
hope  that  they  are  inclined  to  spread  the  Church  of  Christ.  On 
the  contrary,  one  cannot  but  fear  that  they  will  rend  and  des- 
troy the  church  which  is  already  planted  there  amongst  the 
heathen.  Let  any  one  look  at  the  writings  of  these  Missionaries 
which  have  lately  been  made  public." 

When  the  news  of  this  disputation  arrived  in  Copenhagen, 
it  was  very  easy  for  Dr.  Liitkens  to  overthrow  these  false  and 
groundless  accusations;  but  the  Missionaries  have  only  re- 
ceived their  complete  acquittal  from  posterity  which  has  been 
in  a  position  to  see  and  judge  their  work. 

Thus  the  enemies  of  the  Mission  were  indeed  at  work,  but 
its  friends  were  no  less  active,  and  as  we  have  remarked  before, 
sent  out  most  important  help  in  the  summer  of  1709,  one  of  the 
new  brethren  becoming  a  great  blessing  to  it.  Johann  Ernst 
Griindler,  who  was  six  years  older  than  Ziegenbalg  was  born 
at  Weissensee  in  Thuringia,  where  his  father  was  a  carder. 
He  was  first  sent  to  the  school  in  his  native  town,  then  to 
Quedlinburg,  and  finally  to  the  then  celebrated  Gymnasium 
at  Weissenfels.  At  his  earnest  request  his  father  allowed  him 
to  pursue  academical  studies.  He  then  went  to  the  university  of 
Leipzig,  then  to  Wittenberg,  where  he  took  the  degree  of  Mas- 
ter of  Arts,  and  at  last  in  1701  to  Halle.  Here  he  was  much 
struck  by  a  sermon  on  true  and  false  humility,  and  felt  that  in 
spite  of  all  outward  appearance  he  had  never  been  truly  hum- 
ble but  full  of  vanity  and  pride.  He  wrote  on  this  subject  to  the 


—     49     — 

preacher  whose  sermon  had  made  so  deep  an  impression  on  his 
mind,  "  It  is  the  great  mercy  of  God,  which  I  have  never  prized 
sufficiently  before,  not  only  to  have  brought  me  to  this  place 
but  to  have  led  me  to  true  repentance  and  a  thorough  change  of 
my  thoroughly  corrupted  heart.  From  the  deceptions  of  Satan 
it  had  flattered  itself  that  it  was  an  altar  whereon  an  acceptable 
sacrifice  might  be  offered  to  the  living  God,  but  the  words  of 
truth  which  proceeded  from  your  blessed  heart  and  eloquent 
mouth  have  most  fully  persuaded  me  that  the  Christianity  in 
which  I  had  lived  for,  alas!  twenty-four  years,  was  nothing 
more  than  a  decent  Paganism.  Ah!  how  clearly  I  felt  that  till 
then  I  had  been  like  a  stream,  the  surface  of  which  shines  in- 
deed like  silver,  but  in  the  bottom  of  which  toads  and  serpents 
breed.  My  only  anxiety  is  to  be  united  to  God  in  the  com- 
munion of  the  Holy  Ghost  through  Christ,  and  the  right  way 
and  means  have  now  been  pointed  out  to  me.  I  have  experienced 
the  mercy  of  the  Lord; — He  has  destroyed  the  old  brood  of  sin 
and  driven  out  the  unclean  beasts,  I  mean  my  ruling  lusts  and 
evil  desires,  and  he  has  raised  up  a  holy  temple  in  my  soul,  and 
thus,  founded  on  Christ  the  corner-stone,  he  has  made  of  me  a 
living  stone  fit  for  the  Temple  of  God." 

Grundler  now  became  a  teacher  in  the  Pedagogium  at 
Halle,  and  worked  with  zeal  and  diligence  for  the  improve- 
ment both  of  himself  and  others,  and  the  blessing  on  his  work 
which  he  perceived,  encouraged  him  so  much,  that  he  longed  to 
become  useful  to  a  greater  number.  It  then  occurred  to  him  to 
go  to  the  East  Indies;  he  talked  it  over  with  his  relations,  and 
assured  them  that  his  desire  to  take  a  share  in  the  conversion 
of  the  heathen  was  so  great,  that  he  would  willingly  go  at  his 
own  expense,  if  no  other  means  could  be  found.  A  short  time 
after  he  mentioned  the  affair  to  his  superiors,  and  begged  them  to 

5 


—     50     — 

think  of  him  if  any  one  should  be  required  for  Missionary  work 
in  the  East  Indies.  This  was  promised,  and  a  year  after 
when  a  letter  arrived  from  Denmark  asking  for  a  Missionary, 
Grriindler  was  recommended.  A  student,  Polycarpus  Jordan, 
followed  him  at  his  own  expense,  to  be  an  unordained  assistant 
to  the  Mission.  In  Copenhagen  Griindler  preached  before  King 
Frederick  IV.  taking  for  his  text  verses  1  to  6  of  the  4th  Chapter 
of  St.  Paul's  Epistle  to  the  Ephesians,  and  was  ordained  by  the 
Bishop  of  Zealand,  Dr.  Bornemann,  together  with  Johann 
Georg  Bovingh,  on  the  31st  October  1708.  In  the  following 
month  the  three  set  sail,  and  arrived  in  Tranquebar  in  the  sum- 
mer of  1709. 

We  will  let  Griindler  himself  describe  his  arrival  in  a  let- 
ter to  his  relations.  "  Many  thousand  miles  from  my  Father- 
land and  from  you,  my  dear  friends,"  he  writes,  "my  heart 
would  be  heavy,  indeed  almost  unbearable,  at  the  thought  of 
living  in  a  country  and  amongst  a  people  whom  I  did  not  know 
before,  were  it  not  that  in  this  my  occupation  amongst  the  hea- 
then, God  so  fills  me  with  his  fatherly  comfort  and  inward  joy, 
that  I  can  say  with  truth  that  I  have  a  great  desire  to  live  in 
this  country,  and  as  an  unworthy  servant  of  God  to  make  known 
the  Gospel  to  the  Heathen  for  their  salvation  and  happiness, 
notwithstanding  the  many  troubles,  great  opposition  and  bodily 
discomforts  with  which  we  meet.  But  oh!  may  a  faithful  God 
lead  everything  to  conduce  to  his  own  glory;  without  his  holy 
call  and  will  it  would  be  grievous  to  me  to  live  here  for  one  day; 
but  with  these,  I  am  determined  by  his  grace  not  merely  to 
spend  many  years  here,  but  to  finish  my  poor,  yet  in  God  hap- 
py pilgrimage  in  this  heathen  country.  For  we  see  a  great  har- 
vest before  us,  and  the  Lord  of  the  harvest  has  shown  us  so  much 
favour,  that  we  ought  not  to  be  frightened  or  fatigued  by  any  op- 


—     51     — 

position,  but  should  work  on  with  comfort,  endeavouring  to  prove 
ourselves  faithful,  as  our  Lord  expects  of  us.  Whether  he  has  or- 
dered that  I  should  remain  for  a  long  or  for  a  short  time  as  a  poor 
instrument  for  his  service  amongst  the  heathen,  may  his  grace 
make  me  ever  more  fit  for  it,  and  may  all  go  forward  according 
to  his  holy  will  and  counsel.  On  the  20th  of  July,  about  noon, 
we  were  joyful  and  thankful  to  reach  the  end  of  our  voyage  and 
anchor  in  Tranquebar.  A  boat  soon  came  off  to  the  ship.  I  was 
not  able  to  land  till  the  following  day,  and  'as  I  was  on  my  way 
to  the  Missionaries'  house,  I  met  them  coming  to  fetch  me.  We 
fell  on  each  other's  necks  with  great  joy,  and  they  took  me  in- 
to their  dwelling.    At  the  door  stood  many  of  their  congrega- 
tion, both  great  and  small,  of  whom  they  said  to  me,   "  Here 
you  see  our  plants  from  amongst  the  Heathen".  They  all  made  an 
oriental  salutation;  when  I  wished  to  say  something  to  them, 
I  was  so  deeply  moved,  that  I  could  not  restrain  my  tears,  but 
was  obliged  to  seek  for  a  place  where  I  could  weep;   partly  at 
the  thought  of  the  troubles  which  these  poor  black  sheep  and 
lambs  had  undergone; — but  partly  with  joy  at  the  sight  of  them. 
Our  first  occupation  was  to  fall  on  our  knees  together,  and 
praise  God:  then  we  partook  of  dinner.     The  children,  who 
are  supported  on  what  God  sends  from  time  to  time  to  these 
two  men,  amounted  then  to  13  in  the  Malabar  school  and  5  in 
the  Portuguese.  Thus  I  saw  a  Malabar  meal  for  the  first  time. 
The  children  sat  on  the  ground  with  their  feet  crossed  under 
them;  (the  old  people  sit  in  the  same  way.)    Each  one  had  an 
earthen  bowl  before  him,  filled  with  rice  boiled  in  water,  and  on  it 
lay  a  small  baked  fish.  This  was  their  first  and  last  course,  and  is 
the  daily  noon  and  evening  meal  amongst  the  Malabar ians.   In- 
stead of  a  knife   or  spoon,  they  made  skilful  use  of  their  two 
first  fingers,  according  to  the  custom  of  their  country.     Their 


5* 


—     52     — 

bed  takes  but  little  preparation.  They  lie  on  a  mat  on  the  ground; 
and  require  neither  coverlet  nor  pillow.  The  same  piece  of  linen 
with  which  boys  and  men  cover  the  lower  parts  of  the  body  by 
day  (the  upper  part  of  the  body  and  legs  are  quite  bare)  serves 
them  for  a  covering  by  night.  The  women  and  girls  have  also 
a  piece  of  linen  hanging  down  from  the  head  which  covers  the 
upper  part  of  the  body,  leaving  only  the  face  exposed.  The  dress 
of  these  women  resembles  that  in  which  Mary  is  usually  paint- 
ed beneath  the  cross  of  Christ,  and  these  Malabarians  do  not 
change  their  fashions  as  we  do." 

Griindler  fell  very  seriously  ill  soon  after  his  arrival,  but 
happily  recovered.  At  first  he  applied  himself  to  Portuguese 
as  the  superintendence  of  the  Portuguese  school  was  confided 
to  him;  but  the  Tamil  language  and  intercourse  with  the 
Hindus  soon  became  his  principal  occupation.  When  help 
arrived  from  Europe,  the  elder  Missionaries  gave  account  of 
their  housekeeping.  The  debts  were  paid,  and  1000  Rix-dollars 
were  spent  in  the  purchase  of  a'suitable  dwelling  for  the  four 
Missionaries  with  their  servants  and  scholars;  as  hitherto  they 
had  been  obliged  to  hire  a  house.  The  new  dwelling  was 
consecrated  with  prayer  and  hymns. 


CHAPTER  V. 

ZIEGENBALG'S  JOURNIES,  CORRESPONDENCE  AND  CONVERSATIONS 
WITH  THE  NATIVES.—  CATECHUMENS. 

It  is  a  noticeable  fact  that  in  Ziegenbalg's  first  activity  in 
the  East  Indies,  he  did  not  remain  stationary  in  one  place, 
but  often  undertook  journies  into  the  country  in  order  to 
become  acquainted  with  the  natives,  and  to  seize  on  any 
opportunity  for  making  the  Gospel  known.  His  journies  were 
not  confined  to  the  Danish  domain,  but  embraced  a  wide 
range.  In  1708  he  went  to  Negapatam,  and  afterwards 
extended  his  journey  to  Madras:  but  before  entering  on  a 
description  of  this  long  journey,  it  may  be  well  here  to  describe 
one  of  the  shorter  ones  which  he  undertook  soon  after  the 
arrival  of  the  new  Missionaries.  It  is  remarkable  both  on 
account  of  the  lively  description  which  he  himself  gives  of  it, 
and  because  a  way  was  thus  opened  for  the  Mission  into  the 
kingdom  of  Tanjore. 

On  the  2nd  of  September  1709  Ziegenbalg  started  from 
Tranquebar,  intending  to  penetrate  into  the  domains  of  the  King 
of  Tanjore  wherever  it  was  possible.  When  he  informed  his 
servants  after  they  had  started,  whither  their  journey  tended, 
they  were  quite  startled  and  assured  him  that  he  was  running 
into  great  danger.  He  answered,  "  If  God  is  with  us,  no  one 
can  hurt  us.  If  my  undertaking  is  impossible,  or  if  the  time 
has  not  yet  come  for  making  known  the  Gospel  in  this  country, 


—     54     — 

God  will  declare  his  will  to  us.  Meanwhile,  if  any  one  of  you 
has  a  timid  heart,  let  him  return."  Not  one  of  his  people 
would  consent  to  this.  They  journeyed  on  till  they  came  to  a 
village  where  he  exchanged  his  black  clothes  for  white,  put  a 
white  turban  on  his  head,  a  red-striped  piece  of  linen  over  his 
shoulders,  and  red  slippers  on  his  feet.  He  required  of  his  peo- 
ple that  they  should  always  speak  the  truth  on  their  journey; 
for  example,  if  any  one  asked  them,  whence  they  came,  they 
were  to  say,  From  Tranquebar;  Where  are  you  going?  To  any 
place  to  which  we  can  penetrate;  Who  is  your  master?  A 
teacher  from  Tranquebar;  What  have  you  come  for?  To  seek 
out  people  who  wish  to  hear  the  truth  and  to  have  the  word  of 
God  made  known  to  them.  This  rule  was  scrupulously  followed. 
As  the  whole  country  was  under  water,  they  were  obliged  to 
travel  along  the  banks.  They  met  many  heathens  who  passed 
them  without  speaking  to  them.  A  Mohammedan  who  met  him 
cried  out  to  Ziegenbalg,  "Pattani,  Pattani!'  "  I  am  not  a 
Pattani"  (that  is,  white  Mohammedan)  answered  he  and  went 
on.  They  travelled  from  six  o'  clock  in  the  morning  till  about 
noon  without  touching  any  villages  in  order  that  they  might 
not  be  at  once  known; — but  as  the  people  were  growing  tired  and 
hungry,  they  turned  towards  the  little  town  of  Perumalei,  where 
they  met  a  number  of  Hindus,  Brahmins,  taxgatherers,  writ- 
ers, and  overseers  of  the  revenue  of  the  province,  making  in  all 
a  large  and  important  assembly.  Ziegenbalg  would  willingly 
have  passed  on,  but  that  they  might  not  think  he  was  afraid, 
he  went  up  to  them  courageously  and  asked  what  they  were 
doing.  "We  are  writing  down  the  accounts  of  the  province,  " 
said  they,  and  then  asked  whence  he  came,  where  he  was  go- 
ing, who  he  was,  and  what  he  wanted.  He  answered  that  he 
came  from  Tranquebar,  that  he  was  going  to  the  next  town  and 


—    55    — 

thence  further  into  Tanjore,  that  he  was  a  Priest  and  sought 
those  people  who  wished  to  be  instructed  in  the  word  of  God. 
"  Oh,"  said  the  people,  "you  must  certainly  be  that  young  Priest 
from  Tranquebar  who  can  preach  in  Tamil."  Yes,  said  Ziegen- 
balg,  I  am  he,  do  you  know  me?  Yes,  answered  the  head-Brah- 
min, I  talked  to  you  for  a  long  time  at  Anandamangalam;  and 
I,  said  the  overseer,  was  in  Tranquebar  14  days  ago,  and  heard 
you  preach.  I  am  very  glad  to  hear  it,  answered  Ziegenbalg. 
But,  said  the  otliers,  we  are  much  surprised  that  you  venture 
so  far  into  the  country;  such  a  journey  may  bring  you  into 
great  danger,  and  we  advise  you,  as  good  friends,  to  return, 
else  some  misfortune  may  befall  you  even  this  very  day.  Ziegen- 
balg answered,  God,  in  whose  name  I  have  set  forth,  and  whose 
Gospel  I  try  to  make  known,  will  be  able  to  protect  me.  We 
do  not  doubt  tl  at,  said  the  people,  and  we  know  that  you  preach 
true  and  holy  tiings;  but  the  world  is  wicked,  and  no  one  cares 
for  truth.  Neither  justice  nor  oaths  are  of  any  consequence 
amongst  the  Hhdiis,  so  that  they  would  not  scruple  to  do  you 
harm.  Yet  thej  would  scruple  to  kill  a  fly,  said  Ziegenbalg, 
and  why  should  hey  wish  to  kill  me,  who  will  show  them  the 
way  to  eternal  happiness.  They  will  not  kill  you,  answered  the 
people,  we  can  assure  you  of  that,  but  they  will  certainly  take 
you  prisoner  at  tie  first  place  where  you  stop.  We  are  servants 
of  the  King  of  Taijore,  and  must  not  let  any  white  man  enter 
his  dominions  unLss  he  has  a  pass  from  the  King  or  from  those 
next  in  power  to  lim.  As  you  have  no  pass,  we  ought  to  de- 
tain you  ourselves  till  we  have  sent  a  messenger  to  the  King, 
but  we  will  not  do  'hat,  because  we  know  your  good  intentions. 
We  let  you  pass,  but  we  advise  you  to  return.  Ziegenbalg 
thanked  them,  but  isked  them  at  the  same  time  why  so  much 
fuss  was  made  aboit  him.  The  report  has  been  spread  through- 


—     56     — 

out  the  country,  said  the  people,  that  you  are  making  Christians 
in  Tranquebar,  and  writing  Tamil  books  on  your  doctrine: — 
moreover  they  say  that  this  year  you  have  received  tuns  of  gold 
from  Europe;  so  that  when  the  Hindus  see  you,  they  will  say, 
"  Ha  ha,  this  is  the  man  who  rejects  our  religion  in  Tranquebar, 
and  wishes  to  make  everv  one  Christians,  and  who^receives  so 
much  money.  At  all  events  he  must  have  some  thousand  dollars 
about  him.    We  will  keep  him  prisoner  till  we  have  got  all  his 
ready  money  from  him,  and  then  we  will  send  him  on  to  the  King 
of  Tanjore  who  will  keep  him  prisoner  till  he  pays  a  high  ran- 
som. '    We  therefore  advise  you  to  return,  for  the  report  that 
you  are  here  will  soon  spread.    But,  said  Ziegenbalg,  how  can 
they  know  so  immediately  that  I  have  left  Tranquebar.      If  a 
cow,  answered  they,  strays  from  Tranquebar  into  our  country, 
no  one  pays  any  attention  to  it,  because  such  cows  are  to  be 
seen  everywhere   in  crowds;  but  if  an  elephant  were  to  stray, 
all  would  hasten  to  look  at  such  a  wonder,  because  elephants  are 
novelties  in  our  country.   So  if  a  plain  man,  oile  of  our  equals, 
comes  here  from  Tranquebar,  no  one  asks,  Where  do  you  come 
from?  and,  Whither  do  you  go?  because  he  is  life  us  and  belongs 
to  our  people.    But  when  you  come,  it  is  like  fm  elephant,  be- 
cause you  are  a  white  priest,  and  always  tali  about  religion: 
therefore  you  cannot  remain  hidden.  Then  Ziegenbalg  said:  "  As 
God  has  raised  up  such  a  commotion  amongst  you  heathen  on 
account  of  the  Gospel  being  made  known,  it  cnght  to  be  a  plea- 
sure to  you  to  talk  with  me,  and  to  be  able  to  ask  all  parti- 
culars of  the  truth  which  leads  to  salvation. "(Wise  and  inquisi- 
tive people,  said  they,  would  consider  it  apleasure  to  talk  to 
you  every  day,  but  there  are  few  such  in  thi  country,  and  they 
cannot  save  you  from  the  hands  of  those  wli  love  money.  Zie- 
genbalg then  inquired  in  what  manner  he  aould  obtain  a  pass 


—     57 

from  the  King,  and  was  advised  first  to  ask  permission  to  build 
a  house  in  his  territories,  as  when  he  had  been  there  for  some 
time  with  his  scholars,  he  would  then  be  considered  as  an  in- 
habitant and  as  the  King's  subject,  and  would  be  free  to  travel 
wherever  he  liked.  He  thanked  them  for  their  advice,  and 
especially  for  the  sake  of  his  congregation,  determined  not  to 
expose  himself  to  the  danger  of  the  journey.  He  was  hospitably 
treated,  returned  by  another  road  and  arrived  the  same  evening 
in  Tranquebar,  where  his  colleagues  were  much  surprised  by 
his  hasty  return,  but  rejoiced  in  the  news  which  he  brought 
them. 

Another  means  by  which  Ziegenbalg  brought  himself  in- 
to contact  with  the  Natives,  was  by  entering  into  correspondence 
with  them.  Wherever  learned  and  experienced  men  were  living, 
he  sent  letters  and  laid  such  questions  before  them  as  he  thought 
each  one  could  best  answer.  Answers  were  not  wanting.  In 
3  months  he  received  55  letters,  which  he  put  together  and 
dedicated  to  the  Crown-Prince  Christian  (afterwards  Christian 
VI.)  and  he  afterwards  sent  another  collection  of  44  letters. 
We  will  give  extracts  from  some  of  these,  letters  as  samples, 
not  selecting  those  which  treat  of  the  political  or  social  life  of 
the  Natives,  but  of  religion.  Some  defend  their  Heathenism, 
others  are  shaking  in  it,  and  others  again  are  evidently  in  the 
act  of  giving  themselves  up  to  the  truth. 

"  All  that  you  write  and  say  proves  that  you  despise  re- 
ligion and  worship;  for  you  declare  that  all  that  is  written  in 
our  holy  books  is  false  and  deceitful,  and  that  we  in  reading 
such  books  are  confused  and  led  away  from  God,  indeed  that 
every  thing  that  is  written  in  them  is  contrary  to  the  holiness 
of  Grod,  and  to  the  reason  of  man.  The  adventures  which  have 
happened  to  our  gods  in  various  parts  of  this  earth  and  in  other 


—     58     — 

worlds  you  hold  to  be  poetical  fables,  and  say  that  they  are  al- 
together a  deception  of  the  devil.  The  very  gods  which  we 
worship  and  from  whom  we  expect  salvation,  you  consider  as 
devils,  and  say  that  under  their  forms  we  are  only  worshipping 
devils.  It  seems  absurd  to  you  when  we  say  that  there  are  14 
worlds,  330  millions  of  gods,  48,000  prophets  and  many  musi- 
cians:— moreover  that  we  attribute  bodily  forms,  wives,  child- 
ren, playthings  and  the  like  to  our  gods,  seems  to  you  pure 
folly.  Our  sacrifices,  our  feasts,  our  whole  Pagoda- worship 
seem  sinful  to  you.  You  consider  it  sinful  folly  when  we  adorn 
ourselves  with  strings  of  pearls"  (the  Rosaries  of  the  Heathen 
which  they  use  when  they  pray,  and  with  the  use  of  which 
much  superstition  is  bound  up)  "  when  we  smear  ourselves  with 
ashes  and  cow-dung,  that  we  honour  cows  so  highly,  reverence 
the  sun,  think  much  of  unlucky  days,  and  carry  on  fortune- 
telling:  moreover  our  pilgrimages  to  holy  places  you  consider 
as  nonsense  only  fit  for  fools.  You  blame  our  carefulness  in 
purification,  our  reading  many  prayers  for  the  forgiveness  of 
sins  and  the  obtaining  of  salvation,  you  even  blame  our  mani- 
fold penitences:  our  caste-regulations,  our  manner  of  eating, 
our  fasts,  our  manner  of  living,  even  our  good  works,  and  our 
alms,  for  you  declare  that  we  are  all  Heathens,*  standing  under 
a  curse,  that  our  hearts  are  not  converted,  that  we  are  un- 
pleasing  to  God  with  all  our  good  works,  and  that  we  can  never 
be  saved  in  spite  of  all  our  worship,  because  the  ways  in  which 
we  walk  are  not  God's  wTays  but  those  which  we  have  chosen 
for  ourselves." 

"  Now  it  is  very  true  that  much  amongst  us  is  to  be  blam- 
ed. All  sorts  of  sin  and  injustice  have  full  sway  over  us,  which 
ought  not  to  be;  but  at  the  same  time  you  need  not  despise  every - 

*The  Malabarians  do  not  like  to  be  called  Heathens  (Anyani,  i.  e.  Unwise.) 


—     59     — 

thing.  If  we  were  heathens  and  our  religion  were  quite  false, 
you  would  find  neither  virtue  nor  good  works  amongst  us; — 
but  now  you  meet  with  many  virtues  and  people  active  in  good 
works;  yea  even  some  who  live  so  holy  a  life  that  no  sin  can  be 
imputed  to  them.  Is  it  possible  then  that  a  law  which  disclaims 
all  sin,  and  leads  to  good,  can  be  a  false  law  ?  Every  nation  has 
its  own  fashions,  manners  and  laws  which  appear  absurd  to 
other  nations.  It  is  the  same  with  religions.  God  is  manifold  in 
all  his  creations  and  in  all  his  works,  and  therefore  he  will  be 
worshipped  in  different  ways.  Our  law  and  our  religion  are 
good  in  themselves,  and  it  is  our  own  fault  that  they  are  thus 
blamed,  partly  because  we  do  not  live  up  to  them,  and  partly 
because  we  have  not  such  a  knowledge  of  them  as  to  refute  all 
objections  by  true  arguments  and  to  be  able  to  defend  our  pre- 
cepts circumstantially. ' ' 

"Moreover  we  find  much  to  blame  in  the  Christians  who 
have  come  from  Europe  into  this  country,  and  if  religion  is  to  be 
judged  by  its  fruits,  we  cannot  think  very  well  of  your  religion 
when  we  see  how  little  justice  and  modesty  there  is  amongst 
Christians.  They  perform  very  few  good  works,  give  very  few 
alms,  have  no  penitences,  willingly  accept  presents,  drink  strong 
drinks,  illtreat  animals  and  use  them  for  food,  care  very  little 
about  bodily  cleanliness,  look  down  upon  all  others  as  inferiors 
and  are  very  avaricious,  proud  and  passionate.  Indeed  our  Brah- 
mins say  that  the  white  people  are  descended  from  the  giants, 
that  they  do  not  know  the  difference  between  good  and  evil, 
but  sin  continuously.  Any  one  who  has  read  and  understood 
their  law,  think  good  of  their  religion,  though  it  seems  to  be  not 
very  reasonable  that  they  believe  in  a  God  who  was  tortured 
and  put  to  death  by  his  own  people.  But  who  are  we  that  we 
should  write  about  such  things.  However  long  we  may  dispute 


—     60     — 

about  religion,  we  may  all  finally  say : — we  are  all  God's  crea- 
tures, and  have  a  like  entrance  into  and  exit  from  this  world. 
In  so  far  as  God  shows  mercy  towards  us  we  are  blessed;  as 
he  rules  us  and  reigns  over  us,  we  must  live  under  him  and 
can  neither  add  to  nor  take  away  from  any  thing  which  he  has 
ordained  concerning  us." 

The  author  of  this  letter  was  very  far  from  Christianity, 
we  will  now  give  another  whose  writer  was  a  little  nearer.  * '  You 
wish  to  know  the  reasons  why  the  Hindus  delay  joining  the 
Christian  religion,  but  particularly  why  we,  who  have  read  your 
religious  books  and  know  your  precepts,  do  not  unite  ourselves  to 
your  Church.  Now  we  have  seen  what  dogmas  are  contained  in 
your  law  and  we  cannot  say  but  that  they  are  good  and  agree 
with  the  truth:  but  the  reasons  why  we  do  not  join  your  Church 
are  these.  We  have  a  great  many  good  friends,  who  would  be 
much  displeased  by  it;  if  we  did  it  alone,  we  should  be  persecuted  to 
death,  and  not  find  security  nor  protection  anywhere.  It  is  very 
difficult  for  us  to  give  up  doing  what  our  fathers  and  grand- 
fathers have  done,  for  all  like  to  honour  their  ancestors,  and  to 
go  along  the  same  road  which  all  their  people  have  gone  and  are 
still  going.  Moreover  we  must  seek  our  livelihood  in  the  coun- 
try where  we  live:  we  are  married,  we  have  wives  and  child- 
ren who  would  cause  us  great  difficulty.  We  are  sunk  too  deep 
in  the  vanities  of  this  world,  and  look  more  at  the  present  than 
at  the  future,  and  we  believe  moreover  that  God  will  bless  us 
if  we  direct  our  lives  according  to  what  we  acknowledge  as 
truth  in  your  law,  even  if  we  do  not  give  the  external  sign  of 
joining  your  Church.  You  know  moreover  that  we  place  little 
confidence  in  the  outward  forms  of  our  religion.  In  short,  the 
fear  of  man  has  withheld  us  till  now,  and  does  so  still,  for  one 


—     61     — 

likes  to  remain  with  those  people  amongst  whom  he  is  born, 
be  they  good  or  evil." 

"  Others  delay  from  the  following  causes.  They  do  not 
properly  understand  the  excellence  of  your  law  and  your  re- 
ligion, but  see  and  hear  only  something  here  and  there.    They 

•  know  that  there  are  sects  amongst  Christians  and  can  see  how 
the  one  persecutes  the  other.  The  differences  of  caste  are  not 
observed  amongst  Christians,  they  do  not  wash  when  they  sit 
to  meals,  they  do  not  attend  to  cleanliness  and  modesty,  they 
make  no  difference  amongst  meats,  but  even  eat  great  living 

'  animals  which  are  larger  than  a  man  and  cry  out  when  their 
life  is  taken  from  them,  they  drink  strong  drinks.  These  are 
the  principal  reasons  which  prevent  the  Hindus  from  joining 
the  Christians.  The  judgments  which  they  pass  on  your  religion 
are  various.  Some  say:  this  religion  is  well  ordered; — the  law 
is  open  to  all  and  contains  truth;  their  whole  law  points  to  the 
one  true  God,  to  whom  they  keep  firm;  no  other  religion  has 
such  good  institutions  as  this;  their  churches,  schools  and  houses 
are  much  better  arranged  than  ours.  Others  say  on  the  contra- 
ry: the  Christians  have  a  holy  law,  but  their  life  is  quite  differ- 
ent from  their  law,  and  they  have  no  advantage  over  us.  Fi- 
nally there  are  some  who  jest  and  say;  these  Christians  are  com- 
plete Heathens,  are  not  afraid  of  the  greatest  sins;  there  is  no- 
thing good  either  in  them  or  their  law.  That  this  is  all  true 
you  will  find  from  other  quarters.  May  God  give  us  all  a  better 
understanding  that  we  may  acknowledge  our  faults  and  live 
so  as  you  live  and  teach  every  one  to  live." 

Now  follows  the  letter  of  one  who  seems  to  be  very  near 
to  the  kingdom  of  God:  "  I  send  my  greeting  to  the  Priests  in 
Tranquebar,  who  by  their  holy  teaching  try  to  drive  out  Hea- 
thenism and  to  set  up  truth  and  wisdom,  and  I  write  them  this 
letter  as  thev  ask  me  to  inform  them  in  what  I  believe  and  how 


—     G2     — 

I  hope  to  be  saved.   My  belief  is  this : — I  have  firmly  laid  hold 
on  the  truth  that  there  is  but  one  God  and  Lord,  who  has  crea- 
ted the  world  and  all  the  living  creatures  that  are  therein.   When 
I  see  wise  and  holy  Priests,  I  honour  them  as  much  as  possible, 
listen  to  their  teachings  and  warnings,  and  pay  great  attention 
to  them  in  my  heart.  All  other  things,  as  Pagodas,  Idols,  Sacri-  * 
fices,  Feasts,  Ceremonies  and  which  .are  considered  as  belong- 
ing to  religion,  I  consider  as  some  thing  which  may  be  perform- 
ed according  to  the  fancy  and  fashion  of  the  world,  without  be- 
ing of  importance  in  themselves.     My  whole  religious  service 
consists  in  this : — morning  and  evening  I  consider  that  there  is 
a  God  who  has  created  me,  1  ponder  this  truth  in  my  heart  and 
say,  ''Lord!  all  that  I  do  is  sinful!"  I  meditate  on  this  truth  with 
grief,  and  at  last  I  cry  out,  "  Lord !  remit  and  forgive  our  sins!" 
Then  I  consider  what  learned  people  say  and  do,  and  consider 
which  is  good  and  evil.   The  idolatrous  fashion  of  one  worship- 
ping one  god  and  one  worshipping  another  and  the  various  cere- 
monies which  are  carried  on  in  the  Pagodas  are  fancy  and  con- 
fusion,  to  which  men  are  attached,  because  they  make  an  ap- 
pearance in  the  eyes  of  the  world.      Moreover  I  am  quite  con- 
vinced that  our  learned  men  are  not  right  in  saying  that  every 
thing  must  go  on  as  it  has  done  in  the  time  of  our  fathers.   This 
is  a  vain  fancy  of  the  world;  I  consider  that  what  you  write  and 
speak  and  teach  on  the  remission  of  sins  and  the  practice  of  good 
is  the  truth.  The  best  learning  amongst  us  is  dark  and  incom- 
prehensible; no  one  except  the  Brahmins  knows  what  is   in  the 
books   of  our  law.     How  can  we  receive  salvation  from  a  law 
which  we  neither  know  nor  understand?  I  hold  firmly  to  the 
belief  that  one  God  has  created  every  thing,  and  say  contin- 
ually, "Lord !  forgive  me  my  sins,  those  which  I  know  and  those 
which  1  do  not  know!"  Then  I  reflect  upon  what  it  may  be  his 
will  for  me  to  do.  It  is  your  books  which  have  helped  me  to  do 


—     63 

this,  without  them  I  should  have  been  like  a  beast.  I  do  not 
know  what  God  will  do  with  me  further.  I  often  say  to  my- 
self, "you  do  not  deserve  to  be  saved,  for  you  think,  do,  speak, 
see  and  hear  unnumbered  bins  every  day."  Then  the  thought 
occurs  to  me  "  How  is  it  possible  that  you  should  be  saved  with 
^so  many  sins."  For  you  Missionaries  indeed,  this  may  not  seem 
so  difficult,  for  you  have  given  up  all,  excepting  such  things  as 
lead  to  salvation.  It  is  possible  that  by  your  prayers  I  may  be- 
come fit  for  salvation.  This  is  all  that  I  have  to  tell  you." 

Finally  we  may  add  a  letter  from  one  who  wished  to  join 
the  Missionaries.  "  I  fall  at  the  feet  of  the  teachers  of  truth, 
the  Tranquebar  Priests  who  are  ready  to  help  every  one,  and 
I  bring  my  entreaties  in  all  humility  before  them.  As  I  have 
learned  that  you  are  endowed  with  wisdom,  learning  and  holi- 
ness, and  live  according  to  the  commands  of  your  God,  daily 
fighting  the  three  enemies,  the  world,  sin  and  the  flesh,  try- 
ing to  spread  the  truth  of  your  law  in  all  parts,  willing  to  suffer 
for  the  cause  of  truth,  never  tiring  of  doing  good  to  all  and 
kind  services  to  every  one,  so  I  do  not  doubt,  but  firmly  be- 
lieve that  in  a  future  world  you  shall  receive  the  reward,  the 
crown  and  the  sceptre  from  the  throne  of  God.  But  as  when 
a  beautiful  flower  is  picked,  the  stalk,  and  even  the  thorns  on 
its  stalk  are  picked  with  it,  and  become  participators  of  its  hap- 
piness, so  I,  a  useless  stalk  and  thorn,  hope  to  be  raised  to  that 
world  with  such  sweet-smelling  flowers  as  yourselves;  and  I 
pray  that  Jesus  Christ  will  help  me  to  see  your  faces  daily,  to 
serve  you  and  ever  to  hear  the  law  which  God  has  given.  That 
is  my  wish  and  my  humble  request. " 

We  have  another  witness  of  the  manner  in  which  Ziegen- 
balg  conducted  his  intercourse  with  the  Heathens  and  Mo- 
hammedans and  made  Christ  known  to  them,  in  the  conversa- 


—     64     — 

tions  which  he  had  with  them  and  which  he  afterwards  wrote 
down.  There  are  three  collections  of  such  conversations,  one 
containing  16,  another  18,  and  a  third  20.  Of  these  I  will  give 
two  from  the  first  collection,  one  with  a  Hindu,  only  in  ab- 
stract, the  other  with  a  Mohammedan,  at  full. 

"  On  the  6th  of  March  1707  a  Brahmin  who  was  con-| 
sidered  very  wise  and  learned  came  tome,  Ziegenbalg.  I  asked 
him  with  what  intentions  he  came,  on  which  he  answered,  "  I 
have  come  to  have  a  good  talk  with  you."  I  then  asked  him 
to  choose  whether  I  should  ask  him  questions,  or  he  me,  and 
as  he  chose  the  former  I  asked  him  whether  he  acknowledged 
One  divine  Being,  to  which  he  answered,  "yes." 

Ziegenbalg.  "  How  is  that  possible,  when  you  Malabarians 
worship  so  many  gods?  " 

Brahmin.  i i  We  believe  in  one  divine  Being,  in  whom  every- 
thing has  its  origin;  but  we  say  also  that  from  him  have  sprung 
three  great  gods,  Brahma,  Vishnu  and  Siva,  and  from  these 
again  have  sprung  many  others,  of  whom  we  read  in  the  books 
of  our  law.  As  these  three  great,  as  well  as  all  the  smaller  gods, 
have  all  sprung  from  the  Being  above  all  beings,  and  are  his 
deputies  over  all  animate  and  inanimate  things,  in  them  we 
honour  the  Being  above  all  beings,  the  highest  God,  who  takes 
this  worship  as  if  it  were  offered  to  himself." 

Z.  6  i  God  has  given  a  good  understanding  to  you  Malabarians, 
so  that  you  can  talk  very  sensibly  of  natural  things,  and  yet  you 
are  so  blind  and  unwise  when  you  come  to  spiritual  things  that 
without  thought  you  stiffly  and  firmly  believe  what  your  poets 
fabricated  long  ago,  and  which  has  come  down  to  you  in  pretty 
verses.  For  is  it  not  a  very  foolish  opinion  that  the  Being  of  all 
beings  should  have  multiplied  himself  into  many  gods?  This 
error  originates  in  your  not  possessing  or  understanding  the 


—     65     — 

# 
revealed  word  of  the  Eternal  God;  for  as  your  fathers  would 
not  follow  the  truth  unto  salvation,  God  gave  them  up  unto  a 
righteous  judgement  that  they  should  believe  a  lie;  and  because 
you  believe  such  lies  up  to  this  day  you  talk  so  corruptly 
of  God  and  prove  thereby  that  you  do  not  truly  honour  any 
God." 

B.  "Our  religion  is  the  oldest  of  all  religions.  Many  pious 
kings  have  reigned  over  us,  and  we  have  had  many  holy  pro- 
phets and  learned  men.  These  have  all  believed  what  we  now 
believe.  If  our  religion  were  false,  would  there  not  have  been  one 
amongst  them  who  would  have  discovered  it,  and  taught  us  a 
better  way?  Would  God  have  allowed  our  religion  to  spread  so 
Tar  and  to  stand  for  so  long,  had  it  been  false?" 

Z.  "  The  truth  of  a  religion  does  not  depend  on  its  antiquity 
or  on  the  number  of  its  adherents.  The  devil  and  sin  are  both 
old,  and  govern  a  large  part  of  the  world:  but  it  would  be  wrong 
therefore  to  say  that  the  devil  is  pious  and  that  sin  is  pleasing 
to  God."  He  then  goes  on  to  prove  that  the  truth  or  falsehood 
of  a  religion  must  be  tested  by  the  word  of  God.  "As  the  hea- 
then have  not  the  word  of  God,  they  cannot  test  their  religion 
by  it;  still  if  they  would  use  their  reason,  they  would  see  the 
incongruity  of  many  things  in  which  they  believe.  This  has 
happened  to  many  heathens,  who  have  cast  away  their  Poly- 
theism, and  seen  that  the  tales  of  the  gods  which  are  related  in 
their  sacred  books,  are  lies.  Yet  as  the  greater  number  with- 
stand the  truth,  God  allows  them  to  be  ruined  in  their  blind- 
ness; but  he  has  no  pleasure  in  false  religions,  and  is  not  the 
cause  of  the  condemnation  of  the  heathen.  Ho  has  sought 
your  fathers,  and  he  seeks  you  now,  but  he  compels  no  one." 

B.  "  God  has  created  both  the  good  and  the  evil;  he  is  the 
author  of  virtue  and  vice,  as  well  as  of  salvation  and  destruction; 


—     CG     — 

without  him  nothing  can  take  place  in  the  world.  If  some  are 
good,  pious  and  holy,  they  are  so  according  to  the  will  of  God: 
and  again  if  some  are  wicked,  sinful  and  unholy,  they  are  sin- 
ners according  to  the  will  of  God.  If  we  are  mistaken  in  our 
religion  and  our  worship,  it  happens  with  the  consent  of  God. 
What  can  we  do?  What  is  to  happen  to  us  on  this  earth,  and 
how  God  has  willed  that  we  are  to  live  and  conduct  ourselves, 
is  all  written  on  our  heads.  How  can  we  alter  what  God  has 
determined?" 

Z.  "It  is  true  that  God  has  created  all,  but  all  good  and  holy, 
instead  of  wicked  and  sinful.  You  blaspheme  God  when  you  say 
that  he  is  the  origin  of  all  the  sin  and  evil  in  the  world.  If  men 
only  do  good  and  evil  according  to  the  will  of  God,  of  what  use  * 
are  you  Brahmins?  Wherefore  has  God  ordained  teachers  in  the 
world  to  instruct  disobedient  men?  Wherefore  has  he  revealed 
his  word  to  the  world?  Wherefore  has  he  instituted  kings  and 
magistrates,  who  are  to  punish  the  evil,  and  reward  the  good? 
If  God  had  willed  us  to  sin,  this  would  all  be  useless;  and  it 
would  be  wrong  to  punish  sinners,  if  God  had  formed  them  for 
sinning  and  was  pleased  with  their  sins.  Many  incongruities 
would  follow  from  this,  as:  that  God  himself  was  a  sinner  and 
that  evil  not  being  displeasing  to  him,  he  could  not  be  that 
righteous  Judge  who  rewards  virtue  and  punishes  vice.  This 
opinion  opens  the  way  to  all  sin,  and  keeps  you  back  from  con- 
version; but  it  arises  from  your  not  having  a  right  knowledge 
of  the  creation  of  man." 

B.  "We  say  that  Brahma  in  the  beginning  created  men, 
that  some  became  devils,  who  have  increased  in  infinity,  and 
that  others  remained  men,  and  that  from  them  have  sprung  all 
the  men  who  are  now  on  the  earth." 

Ziegenbalg  now  showed  him  that  not  Brahma,  but  the  one 


—     67     — 

true  God  was  the  creator  of  everything,  and  instructed  him  in 
the  creation  of  man,  the  fall  as  a  consequence  of  the  tempta- 
tions of  the  devil,  and  of  the  evil  use  made  by  our  first  parents 
of  their  free-will.  The  fault  was  not  God's  any  more  than  it 
would  be  the  king's  fault  if  nis  palace  on  which  he  had  expend- 
ed great  care  and  money  were  burned  down.  The  devil  and 
man  alone  were  guilty,  but  "  if  you  will  listen  with  attention, 
I  will  show  you  how  you  can  be  saved  from  the  consequences  of 
the  fall." 

B.  u  We  are  both  men,  and  live  upon  one  earth.  One  God 
has  created  us.  How  then  should  we  not  listen  willingly  to  one 
another?  each  remains  free  to  believe  what  he  likes?" 

Ziegenbalg  then  made  Christ  known  to  him,  spoke  with 
him  on  the  extension  of  the  kingdom  of  Christ,  showed  him  that 
it  had  been  announced  to  them  before,  and  that  it  had  now  come 
to  him,  and  exhorted  him  to  be  obedient  to  the  voice  of  God  and 
to  believe  in  his  only  begotten. 

B.  u  God  has  made  himself  known  in  your  country  and 
amongst  you  white  Christians  in  a  different  way  from  what  he 
has  done  here  amongst  us  black  Malabarians.  You  believe  in 
what  he  has  declared  to  you  and  we  believe  in  what  he  has  de- 
clared to  us.  With  you  in  Europe  Christ  became  a  man,  here 
in  India  Vishnu  became  a  man.  You  expect  to  be  saved  through 
Christ,  we  through  Vishnu.  It  is  God's  pleasure  to  reveal  him- 
self in  different  ways  in  different  countries." 

Z.  u  Vishnu's  many  changes  of  which  you  talk  and  write  so 
much  are  so  absurd  and  incongruous  that  instead  of  considering 
them  as  pleasing  to  the  holy  God,  they  rather  appear  as  a  delu- 
sion of  the  devil.  You  even  say  that  he  came  upon  earth  as  a  pig, 
as  a  fish,  as  a  turtle  and  half  as  a  lion  and  half  as  a  man.  How 
can  you  believe  that  such  a  monster  can  be  your  saviour  and 

6* 


—     68     — 

sanctifier?  And  who  was  able  to  speak  to  this  animal  to  know 
that  it  was  God  who  was  thus  transformed?  Did  Vishnu  come 
in  these  forms  to  save  pigs,  fish  and  turtles?  If  he  had  wished 
to  save  men,  he  would  certainly  have  come  as  a  man,  that  he 
might  be  able  to  talk  with  men.  Truly  you  say  that  he  also 
came  as  a  man  upon  earth  under  various  names;  but  in  these 
histories  I  only  find  that  he  deceived  others  by  his  cunning-,  and 
by  his  wars  and  cruel  blood-sheddings  brought  ruin  rather  than 
salvation  into  the  world.  Truly  I  wonder  that  you  Brahmins 
can  believe  such  things  and  teach  them  to  others  as  being  holy." 
B.  u  Every  man  can  be  saved  by  his  own  religion  if  he  does 

that  which  is  good  and  avoids  that  which  is  evil. ' 

Ziegenbalg  remarked  that  it  was  only  through  Christ  that 

this  could  be  done  and  pointed  to  faith  and  baptism  for  those 

who  wished  to  do  right. 

B.  "  I  do  not  find  fault  with  anything  you  have  said,  yet 

I  think  that  when  one  believes  in  God  and  leads  a  quiet  virtuous 

and  holy  life,  it  is  unnecessary  to  believe  in  Christ  and  to  be 

baptized." 

Z.  "I  have  represented  the  necessity  of  this  faith  to  you 
by  my  words;  but  I  cannot  give  you  that  faith  in  Christ.  Go 
and  humble  yourself  before  the  God  of  heaven  and  earth,  and 
pray  to  him  to  enlighten  you  by  the  word  you  have  now  heard, 
and  then  you  will  acknowledge  how  necessary  it  is  for  a  sinner 
to  believe  in  Christ,  and  to  recognize  him  as  his  Saviour." 

The  Brahmin  thanked  him  and  departed. 

"  On  the  5th  of  July  1707,  a  Mohammedan  priest  with 
several  of  his  followers  came  to  see  me.  He  was  an  overseer 
over  several  other  priests,  and  living  in  the  interior  had  heard 
that  we  were  introducing  a  new  religion  into  India.  As  he  had 


—     69     — 

never  spoken  with  an  European  priest,  he  wished  to  communi- 
cate with  us  and  hear  what  we  were  teaching.  Almost  as  soon 
as  we  began  to  speak,  he  said  "lam  very  much  surprised  that 
you  have  learned  Tamil  so  quickly,  as  it  is  generally  a  very  diffi- 
cult language  to  Europeans." 

Z.  "  You  Moors  and  Malabarians  should  take  that  as  a  sign 
that  God  will  cause  something  extraordinary  to  happen  amongst 
you  at  this  time.  You  may  guess  therefrom  how  great  is  my 
love  towards  you  that  it  has  led  me  to  such  diligence  in 
learning  the  language." 

He  now  asked  me  to  sjiow  him  the  Holy  Scriptures,  and 
I  showed  him  the  Old  Testament  in  Hebrew,  and  the  New 
Testament  in  Greek.  He  asked  me  to  read  something  out  of  the 
Old  Testament,  on  which  I  read  to  him  the  3rd  Chapter  of  the 
1st  book  of  Moses;  but  as  he  did  not  understand  Hebrew,  he 
asked  me  to  explain  it  in  Tamil.  I  then  began  to  go  through 
the  Chapter  verse  by  verse,  and  explained  to  him  the  creation, 
the  fall  and  the  renewal  of  man.  This  pleased  him  very  much, 
he  said  that  much  of  it  agreed  with  their  teaching,  and  asked 
me  to  read  and  explain  something  from  the  New  Testament. 
I  then  read  to  him  the  3rd  Chapter  of  the  Gospel  according  to 
St.  John  and  gave  a  short  explanation  of  each  verse.  They  all 
listened  with  great  attention  and  said  often  "  that  agrees  with 
our  religion,  only  that  we  apply  to  Mohammed  what  you  say  of 
Christ" 

Z.  "The  cause  that  so  much  of  the  Old  and  New  Testaments 
agrees  with  your  religion  is  that  Mohammed  had  a  Jew  and  a 
Christian  with  him  who  helped  him  to  form  his  precepts.  The 
Jew  gave  him  the  histories  out  of  the  Old  Testament,  the 
Christian  the  histories  and  ideas  of  the  New  Testament,  but 
both  debased  and  corrupted*.     What  your  religion  contains  of 


—     70     — 

good  and  true,  is  taken  from  our  Holy  Scriptures;  but  what  is 
false  and  wicked  originates  in  Mohammed. " 

M.  "How  can  you  judge,  of  Mohammed  in  that  way  when 
you  have  no  correct  history  of  him?" 

Z.  "We  Christians  have  far  more  reliable  accounts  of  the 
life  and  person  of  Mohammed  than  you  have:  for  when  the  Moors 
wished  to  make  all  men  accept  their  religion  by  force,  many 
Christians  escaped  from  their  hands,  who  have  left  to  us  un- 
prejudiced accounts  of  his  person,  his  scandalous  life,  and  un- 
just manner  of  spreading  his  religion.  The  accounts  of  him  on 
the  contrary,  which  you  have,  are  written  by  people  who  care- 
fully concealed  his  vices  and  invented  false  miracles  for  him, 
either  because  they  were  in  his  power,  or  that,  as  adherents  to 
his  religion,  they  chose  to  adorn  it  by  writing  a  good  account 
of  him.  These  histories  are  not  unknown  to  us  in  Europe;  some 
are  printed,  others  exist  in  manuscript,  and  they  are  read 
and  understood  by  many  learned  men  who  know  your  language; 
indeed  we  have  your  Koran  in  Arabic,  Latin,  French,  German, 
and  Dutch,  which  enables  us  to  pass  a  correct  judgment  on  it. 
The  reason  that  you  Moors  are  so  attached  to  the  untruths  of  your 
Mohammed  is  that  you  have  never  beheld  the  truth  of  our 
Christian  religion;  for  a  man  who  has  never  seen  or  heard  of 
any  bird  but  a  black  raven,  thinks  that  it  sings  beautifully  and 
that  it  is  the  best  of  birds;  but  let  him  hear  the  lovely  song  of 
a  nightingale,  and  he  becomes  aware  that  the  cry  of  a  raven  is 
disagreeable  to  the  ears  and  has  nothing  pleasant  in  it.  So,  as 
long  as  you  Mohammedans  have  only  heard  Mohammed's  writ- 
ings, you  may  think  that  no  religion  can  be  better  than  yours, 
but  if  you  would  take  the  trouble  of  examining  into  the  truth 
of  our  religion,  you  would  change' your  ideas  entirely." 


—     71     — 

M.  "  You  Christians  believe  in  three  Gods,  we  believe  in 
one.     Now  who  shoots  most  wide  of  the  mark?  " 

Z.  "We  do  not  distinguish  three  Gods,  but  three  persons 
in  one  divine  Being,  namely,  Father,  Son,  and  Holy  Spirit,  so 
that  it  may  be  truly  said  of  each  person  that  he  is  very  God  and 
yet  there  are  not  three  Gods  but  one  God," 

M.     "How  can  you  prove  this?" 

Z.  "I  will  give  you  a  simile.  We  see  but  one  sun  in  hea- 
ven, and  yet  we  are  aware  of  three  things  in  it;  — there  is  the 
body  of  the  sun,  the  lustre  which  it  throws  out,  and  the  warmth 
from  the  lustre.  These  three  things  are  so  connected  that  we 
could  not  have  the  warmth  without  the  light,  nor  the  light  if 
there  were  no  body  of  the  sun  there.  Now  though  these  three 
things  are  produced  by  the  sun,  no  one  would  say  that  the  sun 
is  threefold;  but  all  would  agree  that  there  is  but  one  sun.  So 
the  Divine  Being  is  but  one,  yet  it  consists  of  three  persons, 
who  are  so  united,  that  any  one  who  despises  the  Holy  Ghost, 
cannot  acknowledge  the  Son,  and  whoever  does  not  believe  in 
and  acknowledge  the  Son,  cannot  believe  in  or  acknowledge  the 
Father.  Therefore  though  you  profess  to  believe  in  one  God, 
the  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth,  you  cannot  be  saved  unless 
you  also  believe  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  the  Saviour  of  the 
world;  for  without  Christ  is  no  salvation  either  for  time  or  eter- 
nity; but  you  cannot  believe  in  Jesus  Christ,  if  you  will  not 
allow  yourselves  to  be  enlightened  by  the  Holy  Ghost.  I  could 
explain  the  mystery  of  the  Trinity  to  you  at  great  length,  both 
by  reasons  from  the  Scriptures,  and  by  similes  from  nature, 
but  for  this  time  I  will  content  myself  with  giving  you  some 
advice  :  —  go  and  reflect  upon  your  sinful  life,  let  it  bring  you 
to  true  penitence,  begin  to  doubt  your  security,  and  think  of 
the  justice  of  God  who  will  only  accept  of  holy  souls  for  eter- 


—     72     — 

nal  salvation.  Then  you  will  acknowledge  how  necessary  a 
Saviour  is  to  you.  Go  further;  consider  the  teaching,  life, 
sufferings  and  merits  of  Christ;  oppose  to  this  the  teaching  and 
life  of  Mohammed  from  your  Koran,  and  pray  heartily  to  God 
that  he  will  teach  you  to  know  which  of  these  two  has  saved 
the  human  race,  and  through  whose  merits  you  can  receive  for- 
giveness of  sins  and  justification;  if  you  do  this  with  sincerity, 
God  will  certainly  teach  you  that  not  Mohammed,  but  Christ 
alone  is  your  Redeemer  and  Sanctifier.  When  you  have  reach- 
ed this  point,  the  Holy  Ghost  will  give  you  light  and  under- 
standing to  comprehend  the  other  mysteries  of  God;  for  before 
a  man  has  really  repented  and  experienced  a  change  of  heart, 
he  may  hear  much  of  divine  things  without  being  able  to  under- 
stand them." 

M,  u  We  have  a  great  deal  about  Christ  in  our  law,  and 
call  him  Isa  Rabi,  the  Prophet  Isa,  and  always  speak  well  of  him; 
but  we  cannot  consider  him  as  the  actual  Son  of  God,  nor  re- 
spect him  more  than  Mohammed,  for  it  seems  to  us  very  incon- 
gruous that  God  should  actually  have  a  Son." 

Z.  "It  appears  so  to  you  because  you  try  to  measure 
these  divine  mysteries  by  your  reason,  and  do  not  understand 
the  truth  of  God's  word,  and  have  not  that  care  for  your  souls 
which  would  lead  you  to  think  u  What  path  shall  we  take  to 
free  ourselves  from  the  misery  of  sin,  and  to  attain  true  justifi- 
cation and  sanctification."  But  if  you  think  that  what  we  be- 
lieve of  Christ  is  strange,  how  can  you  believe  such  much 
stranger  things  of  Mohammed  ?  You  say  that  Mohammed  is  next 
to  God  and  his  best  friend;  and  yet  you  must  acknowledge  that 
he  was  given  up  to  polygamy  and  fleshly  lusts,  that  he  carried 
on  war  against  many  nations,  and  that  whoever  would  notjje- 
ceive  his  religion  was  put  to  death  in  the  most  merciless  manner. 


73 


How  does  that  agree  with  the  holiness  and  justice  of  God.  Would 
God  have  chosen  such  an  one  for  his  most  intimate  friend,  and  for 
the  salvation  of  all  men,  one  who  was  full  of  unclean  lusts,  who 
allowed  a  plurality  of  wives,  and  shed  so  much  innocent  blood?" 

M.  "We  know  well  that  he  had  many  wives,  but  we  cannot 
blame  that,  for  the  pious  kings  David  and  Solomon  had  many 
wives,  and  they  are  considered  to  be  men  of  God  in  your  law 
as  well  as  ours.  As  for  Mohammed's  wars  he  had  a  command 
from  God  to  cleanse  the  world  of  all  those  who  would  not  accept 
his  religion. " 

Z.   "It  is  true  that  we  read  that  both  Solomon  and  David 
had  many  wives,  but  this  was  not  by  God's  command,   but  of 
their  own  wills  and  the  customs  which  had  crept  in  amongst 
the  Jews.  As  you  agree  that  Christ  was  a  great  Prophet,  you 
ought  in  justice  to  reflect  on  what  he  said  to  the  Jews  in  the 
days  of  his  flesh  (Matth.   19.   4.)   "Have  ye  not  read  that  he 
which  made  them  at  the  bes;innino;  made  them  male  and  female, 
and  said,   for  this  cause  shall  a  man  leave  father  and  mother 
and  shall  cleave  to  his  wife;  and  they  twain  shall  be  one  flesh?" 
As  for  what  you  sav  of  Mohammed's  wars  being  undertaken 
by  God's  command,  it  is  quite  contrary  to  the  justice  and  love 
of  God;  for  God  will  that  all  men  should  be  saved  and  brought 
to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth,  yet  he  forces  none,  and  leaves  all 
to  the  exercise  of  their  own  free  will,  whether  they  will  accept  it 
to  their  salvation  or  reject  it  to  their  condemnation;  it  is  enough 
that  God  has  thus  offered  them  his  grace,  which  they  may  accept 
if  they  will  and  be.  saved.      Now  as  Mohammed  used  force  to 
bring  men  to  his  views  we  may  suppose  that  his  was  a  false 
religion,  because  it  is  not  one  of  the  properties  of  truth  to 
constrain  men  to  accept  it." 


—     74     — 

M.  "What  can  I  say  against  it?  There  is  certainly  some- 
thing in  o-nr  law,  against  which  I  have  doubts  myself,  yet  wo 
will  talk  of  this  another  time ;  we  have  said  enough  for  this  time." 

Z.  "  If  you  only  meditate  over  this  little,  and  are  really 
anxious  about  the  things  which  belong  to  your  salvation,  it 
will  do  you  much  good.  May  the  Lord  Jesus  give  you  wisdom 
and  a  new  heart,  both  to  know  him  rightly  and  to  believe  firmly 
in  him  so  that  you  may  participate  in  his  merits  to  your  salvation 
both  for  time  and  eternity."  Thereupon  I  said  adieu  to  him 
and  begged  him  to  keep  up  a  correspondence  with  me. 

Let  us  now  hear  Ziegenbalg'  s  account  of  what  he  had 
learned  in  his  conversations  with  the  heathen;  —  he  says 
' l  Though  they  are  in  great  error  and  thick  darkness  both  with 
regard  to  their  lives  and  teaching,  yet  I  must  declare  that  my 
conversations  with  them  have  often  led  me  to  deeper  consider- 
ation of  many  subjects,  and  that  both  in  theology  and  in 
philosophy  I  have  learned  much  of  which  neither  I  nor  other 
students  had  thought  before.  I  remember  that  many  learned  peo- 
ple in  Europe  have  written  on  the  manner  in  which  the  heathen 
ought  to  be  converted :  but  there  was  no  difficulty  in  this,  as 
there  was  no  one  but  themselves  to  contradict  them.  If  these 
men  were  to  come  here,  they  would  find  that  for  one  reason 
which  they  brought  forward,  the  heathen  would  have  ten  to 
oppose  them.  It  requires  great  wisdom  to  converse  with  such 
people,  and  to  bring  them  to  a  conviction  that  their  heathen- 
ism is  false  and  our  Christianity  true.  Neither  Logic,  nor 
Metaphysics,  but  God  alone  can  give  this  wisdom ;  —  therefore 
those  to  whom  wisdom  is  necessary  in  their  intercourse  with  the 
heathen  must  give  their  most  diligent  endeavours  to  live  in 
such  a  way  that  the  Triune  God  may  hold  communion  with  tl^em, 
and  give  them  whatsoever  they  should  speak  in  that  hour." 


—     75     — 

That  the  life  of  many  nominal  christians  is  a  great  hindrance 
to  the  conversion  of  the  heathen,  has  been  already  mentioned, 
and  will  be  often  in  future  by  the  Missionaries.  "  The  heathen," 
says  Ziegenbalg,  "  often  declare  that  they  would  rather  be  with 
their  fathers  and  their  own  people  in  hell,  than  without  them  in 
heaven.    The  cause  of  these  hard  words  is,  that  they  feel  great 
bitterness  and  ill-will  against  the  christians,  because  they  often 
treat  them  cruelly,  look  upon  them  as  a  set  of  black  dogs  and 
lead  a  scandalous  life  amongst  them.  When  I  was  once  talking 
to  them,  and  seemed  to  have  reached  their  consciences,  they 
answered  me :  —  "If  you   christians  with  your  eating  and 
drinking,  your  fornication  and  adultery,   your  dancing  and 
music,  your  cursing  and  swearing,  and   your  wicked  lives, 
expect  to  be  saved,  surely  we  with  our  quiet  orderly  lives  may 
hope  for  it  also,  even  if  our  religion  be  false  and  altogether  a 
fabrication. "  I  was  very  much  surprised  at  this,  and  asked  them 
what  they  really  thought  of  us  christians.    They  would  not 
answer  till  I  had  promised  that  no  harm  should  result  to  them 
from  what  they  might  say :  and  then  they  declared  that  they 
considered  christians  to  be  a  most  stupid  and  ignorant  people 
who  never  thought  of  God  or  of  eternity.     I  asked  them  how 
they  could  think  so  when  they  saw  that  we  had  a  church  in 
which  preaching  and  singing  were  carried  on  three  times  in  the 
week  at  which  all  the  Europeans  were  present.  They  answered 
that  they  heard  and  saw  us  certainly,  but  that  they  believed 
that  the  priests  taught  nothing  in  church  but  how  to  eat  and 
drink,  to  game  and  illtreat  the  Blacks.       They  did  not  under- 
stand the  Danish  language  in  which  the  service  was  conducted, 
but  seeing  the  actions  of  the  congregation  immediately  after  it, 
never  doubted  but  these  were  the  lessons  they  had  learned.  This 
conversation  was  held  before  Jerusalem  Church  was  built;  when 

7* 


—     76     — 

they  heard  Christianity  preached  there  in  their  mother-tongue, 
they  altered  their  opinion ,  but  still  they  continued  to  be  scan- 
dalized by  the  lives  and  examples  of  many  christians;  especi- 
ally when  they  found  that  they  were  too  proud  and  haughty  to 
recognise  converted  and  baptized  heathen  as  brethren,  that 
generally  they  were  ashamed  to  stand  godfather  for  them,  and 
if  they  consented,  did  it  with  an  ill-grace,  and  did  not  assist 
them  in  any  manner." 

The  good  cause  however  made  progress  in  spite  of  all  ob- 
stacles, and  before  we  close  this  chapter  we  shall  see  what  the 
first  Missionaries  have  to  tell  of  their  converts,  and  what  they 
think  of  the  whole  work  of  conversion  amongst  the  heathen. 

"We  give  the  name  of  catechumens,"  say  they,  "to  those 
natives  who  wish  to  become  christians,  who  are  therefore  in- 
structed in  Christianity  by  means  of  questions  and  answers  till 
they  have  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the  truth,  who  are  led  by 
this  truth  to  a  God-fearing  walk  and  to  give  up  their  heathenish 
customs,  until  finally  in  true  conversion  and  faith  in  the  Lord, 
they  desire  to  be  baptized.  When  they  have  received  this  rite 
they  cease  to  be  catechumens  and  are  called  christians.  We 
also  call  our  converts  from  Papacy  catechumens,  until  their 
knowledge  and  conduct  fit  them  for  the  reception  of  the  Lord's 
Supper. — When  a  heathen  declared  that  he  wished  to  become 
a  christian,  the  Missionaries  examined,  as  far  as  they  could, 
into  the  motives  which  led  him  to  such  a  step;  represented  to  him, 
that  he  who  would  follow  Christ  must  deny  himself  and  take 
up  his  cross,  they  pointed  out  to  him  the  mocking  and  persecu- 
tion which  would  await  him  on  the  part  of  his  countrymen  and 
former  friends.  Many  drew  back  at  this;  but  those  who  remain- 
ed firm  were  regularly  instructed  by  the  Missionaries.  They 
learned  the  Catechism,  which  the  catechist  made  them  repeat 


—     77     — 

after  him,  explaining  it  from  time  to  time.  When  they  had 
learned  the  Catechism,  there  was  no  hurry  in  baptizing  them, 
but  they  were  exercised  in  the  Scriptures.  Many  remained 
catechumens  for  many  months,  others  for  more  than  a  year, 
before  the  Missionaries  could  satisfy  their  consciences  that  they 
might  not  be  incurring  the  guilt  of  bringing  weeds  into  the  gar- 
den of  the  Lord.  In  this  time  of  preparation  persecution  often 
attacked  them;  sometimes  their  relations  and  friends,  sometimes 
those  who  belonged  to  their  caste,  tried  to  dissuade  them  from 
their  purpose  both  by  fear  and  love,  by  threats  and  entreaties. 
When  they  came  and  complained  of  this  to  the  Missionaries, 
they  reminded  them  that  they  had  warned  them  of  it  and  of  the 
Lord's  words  in  the  10th  chapter  of  the  Gospel  according  to 
St.  Matthew.  A  few  stood  firm,  the  greater  number  fell  away. 
It  often  happened  that  those  who  had  come  for  instruction  show- 
ed themselves  unworthy  even  after  several  months  had  elapsed. 
Some  would  not  go  to  school  like  little  children,  and  others 
showed  no  emotion,  no  fruits  of  conversion.  The  catechumens 
were  all  obliged  to  work  at  their  trades,  whether  painting  cot- 
ton, weaving,  or  any  similar  occupation,  for  the  Missionaries 
would  only  contribute  that  which  was  absolutely  necessary  for 
their  support.  Those  who  remained  firm  and  in  whom  the  word 
of  God  seemed  to  have  found  a  good  soil,  were  at  last  baptized, 
after  which  their  heathen  friends  gave  them  up  entirely,  so  that 
persecution  almost  ceased.  The  Missionaries  testify  of  their 
black  congregation,  that  they  often  make  the  white  christians 
ashamed;  still  they  complain,  that  their  progress  in  piety  was 
in  the  whole  but  slow  and  yet  there  were  some  in  whom  God's 
grace  evidently  proved  its  power.  With  special  pleasure  and 
hope  they  looked  upon  the  rising  generation.  u  If  one  is  to 
make  any  lasting  change  amongst  the  heathen,  "  says  Ziegen- 


—     78     — 

balg,  "one  must  turn  one's  attention  particularly  to  the  young; 
for  with  adults,  though  they  can  learn  and  believe  the  articles 
of  faith,  and  even  conform  to  the  rules  of  our  christian  church, 
yet  one  sees  that  it  is  very  difficult  for  them  to  give  up  their 
hearts  to  the  working  of  the  Holy  Spirit;  and  though  many  are 
very  zealous  in  trying  to  bring  others  to  Christianity,  yet  there 
are  many  faults  in  their  conduct,  which  in  mature  age  are  not 
easily  laid  aside.  It  is  very  different  with  the  young;  they  can 
be  brought  to  Christianity  with  much  more  ease  and  more 
thoroughly  than  the  old.  Therefore  from  the  very  beginning  we 
have  taken  great  trouble  to  work  diligently  with  the  young.  I 
and  my  colleague  are  so  fond  of  the  children,  that  we  have  de- 
termined to  bring  up  those  children  at  our  own  expense,  whose 
parents  shall  join  the  congregation;  for  then  we  can  bring  them 
up  in  our  own  way,  and  hope  to  find  people  amongst  them  who 
will  be  suited  to  spread  the  christian  religion."  And  in  another 
place,  "experience  has  taught  us,  that  if  we  wish  for  good 
christians,  we  must  work  diligently  with  God's  word  on  the 
young;  for  though  the  old  people  who  are  very  seldom  able  to 
read  and  write,  often  make  a  good  beginning  in  Christianity, 
yet  it  is  very  difficult,  as  they  cannot  read  and  inquire  into  God's 
word  for  themselves,  to  keep  them  to  a  lively  knowledge  of 
divine  truth  by  verbal  instruction."  Griindler  says,  "more  es- 
pecially, we  have  great  pleasure  in  our  children;  for  what  a 
benefit  it  is  to  the  coming  race,  yea  to  all  eternity,  that  so  many 
heathen  childreu  should  grow  up  in  the  fear  and  discipline  of 
the  Lord.  It  is  the  seed  of  God,  will  by  degrees  grow  up,  and 
spread  throughout  these  heathen  lands." 

These  hopes  failed,  and  here  as  in  other  places  it  was  proved 
that  christian  instruction  at  school  can  do  little  when  the  child- 


—     79     — 

ren  do  not  see  a  christian  life  in  the  houses  of  their  parents. 
If  the  Tranquebar  Mission  has  been  changed  in  our  time  into 
a  mere  school-institution,  one  cannot  sav  but  that  the  first 
Missionaries  contributed  to  it,  as  they  raised  school-teaching 
to  an  undue  eminence,  and  the  free  publication  and  preach- 
ing of  the  word  seem  to  have  fallen  more  and  more  into  the 
shade.  It  must  not  be  said  however  that  the  preaching  of  the 
Gospel  was  neglected;  what  has  been  already  said  proves  to  the 
contrary;  yet  it  is  too  true  that  especially  in  later  times  the 
Evangelists  became  school-masters,  and  continually  waited  to 
see  a  strong  christian  race  arise  out  of  their  schools,  and  wait- 
ed-alas!  in  vain.  The  very  first  boy  who  was  baptized  by  Grund- 
ler  with  great  expectations  at  Poreiar,  degenerated  as  he  grew 
older;  but  neither  many  such  sad  experiences,  nor  a  consider- 
ation of  the  conduct  of  the  Apostles  could  awake  the  later  Mis- 
sionaries out  of  their  school-dream,  and  convince  them  that  a  Mis- 
sionary should  preach  to  the  heathen,  not  keep  school  for  their 
children,  and  that  a  christian  school-life  will  be  quickly  pro- 
duced by  a  christian  home-life.  I  will  conclude  with  Grund- 
ler's  remarkable  words,  which  will  prove  that  this  very  ex- 
cellent man  did  not  over-rate  his  own  usefulness,  but  spoke  of 
it  in  expressions,  to  which  the  truth-loving  historian  can  fully 
subscribe.  "With  regard  to  present  conversions,"  he  says,  "one 
cannot  hope  that  we  should  see  the  blessed  time  when  the 
righteous  God  shall  gather  the  fulness  of  the  heathen  together, 
and  cause  them  to  enter  into  his  fold.  But  it  is  doubtless  true 
that  of  our  poor  unworthy  work  God  will  make  a  small  speci- 
men of  that  time  of  grace,  for  which  it  prepares  the  way. 
By  the  grace  of  God  we  are  made  harbingers  of  his  grace,  un- 
til the  Lord  shall  open  wide  the  kingdom  of  his  mercy  to  the 
heathen.     The  witness  and  mark  of  the  living  God,  which  has 


—     80     — 

shown  itself  in  this  work,  says  clearly  to  us,  that  his  hand  has 
begun  it  and  that  it  will  support  and  carry  it  on." 

The  labour  both  amongst  catechumens  and  christians  was 
very  much  increased  by  their  being  divided  into  two  congrega- 
tions. The  Missionaries  considered  this  to  be  necessary.  "It  is 
true  that  in  the  whole  world  there  is  one  communion  in  the 
Lord,  which  is  the  Christian  Church,"  said  they,  "  but  as  in  this 
Church  there  are  many  different  congregations,  so  on  account 
of  their  different  languages,  it  has  been  necessary  to  divide  even 
the  little  flock  which  the  Lord  has  here  called  into  his  Church, 
into  the  Portuguese  and  Tamil  congregations." 


CHAPTER  VI. 

TAMIL  TRANSLATION   OF   THE   NEW   TESTAMENT.  —  PRINTING    IN 

TRANQUEBAR.  —  THE  ENGLISH,  GERMAN  AND  DANISH  FRIENDS  OF 

THE  MISSION.— THE  MISSIONARY  -  COLLEGE  IS  FOUNDED. 

It  lias  been  already  remarked  that  about  the  end  of  the 
year  (17.  Oct.)  1708  Ziegenbalg  began  to  translate  the  New 
Testament  into  the  Tamil  language.  Though  this  work  was  in- 
terrupted (19  Nov.)  by  his  imprisonment,  he  took  it  up  again 
as  soon  as  he  was  liberated,  and  continued  the  translation  of 
book  after  book  till  on  the  21st  of  March  1711,  he  was  able  to 
say  ''All  the  books  of  the  New  Testament  are  now  translated; 
this  is  a  treasure  in  India,  which  surpasses  all  other  Indian 
treasures."  He  translated  it  from  the  Greek,  but  he  had  Latin, 
German,  Danish,  Portuguese,  and  Dutch  Bibles  at  hand,  as 
well  as  various  Commentaries;  to  which  he  referred  in  the  most 
difficult  places.  But  besides  the  learned  apparatus  which  Zie- 
genbalg thus  brought  to  his  work,  he  himself  mentions  other 
aids,  which  must  not  be  thought  lightly  of. 

1.  Hearty  prayer  to  God;  Psalm.  119.  18.  "Open  thou 
mine  eyes,  that  I  may  behold  wondrous  things  out  of  thy 
law." 

2.  A  hearty  obedience  to  the  word,  so  that  the  divine 
truths  which  one  wishes  to  translate,  may  first  become  truth, 
life  and  spirit  to  the  heart.  St.  John  7.  17.  "  If  any  man  will 
do  .his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of 
God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself." 


—     82     — 

3.  A  knowledge  of  the  manner  in  which  the  Holy  Ghost 
speaks  to  us  in  the  Scriptures.  1  Cor.  14.  11.  "  Therefore,  if  I 
know  not  the  meaning  of  the  voice,  I  shall  be  unto  him  that 
speaketh  a  barbarian;  and  he  that  speaketh  shall  be  a  barbarian 
unto  me." 

4.  A  diligent  comparison  with  other  explanatory  authors; 
this  I  call  "  comparing  spiritual  things  with  spiritual."  1  Cor. 
2.  13. 

5.  A  careful  attention  to  the  context.  2  Pet.  1.  20  "  No 
prophecy  of  the  Scripture  is  of  any  private  interpretation." 

6.  A  conscientious  consideration  of  the  Analogia  fidei,  so 
that  nothing  may  be  set  down  which  shall  be  contrary  to  those 
articles  of  faith  which  have  been  clearly  proved  to  be  founded 
on  the  Holy  Scriptures.  Rom.  12.  6. 

When  the  translation  had  been  carefully  revised,  and  a 
printing  press  with  Tamil  letters  received  in  Tranquebar,  (we 
shall  give  the  history  of  this  soon)  they  proceeded  to  print  it. 
The  first  part  which  embraced  the  Gospels  and  the  Acts  of  the 
Apostles  was  printed  at  the  Mission-press  in  1714.  The  other 
part,  which  embraced  the  remaining  books,  was  printed  in 
smaller  letters  on  account  of  the  want  of  paper  and  was  ready 
in  1715. 

The  Missionaries  obtained  a  Portuguese  translation  of  the 
New  Testament  in  a  much  easier  way,  for  the  work  had  been 
already  done  by  a  Roman  Catholic  priest,  John  Ferreira 
d' Almeida,  who  had  joined  the  evangelical  church  in  Batavia. 
His  translation,  which  follows  the  Dutch  very  closejy,  had  been 
twice  printed  by  the  Dutch  in  quarto  and  when  the  English 
(of  whose  assistance  to  the  Mission  we  shall  so  frequently  have 
iOccasion  to  speak)  heard  of  this,  they  caused  it  to  be  reprinted 


—     83     — 

in  Octavo  at  Amsterdam  at  great  expense,  and  sent  many  hun- 
dred bound  copies  to  the  Missionaries  in  Tranquebar. 

There  was  also  a  Portuguese  translation  of  the  books  of 
the  Old  Testament.  A  Dutch  merchant  at  Paliacate  (Pulicat) 
lent  the  5  books  of  Moses  in  Portuguese  to  the  Missionaries, 
who  had  them  copied;  and  in  a  manuscript  belonging  to  the 
church  at  Negapatam,  they  found  a  translation  of  nearly  all 
the  other  books,  which  they  also  obtained  permission  to  copy. 
It  is  not  known  who  made  this  translation;  but  it  was  probably 
done  in  Batavia.  Griindler  went  carefully  through  it  and  pre- 
pared  it  for  the  press. 

As  soon  as  Ziegenbalg  had  finished  the  Tamil  translation 
of  the  New  Testament,  he  began  with  the  books  of  the  Old 
Testament,  for  which  he  had  a  sort  of  pattern;  as  in  the  year 
1711  when  on  a  journey,  he  had  found  a  very  old  Tamil  book 
amongst  some  Roman  Catholic  Missionaries,  in  which  the  his- 
tories of  the  Old  Testament  were  given  in  question  and  answer. 
He  received  permission  to  copy  it,  on  the  condition  that  he 
would  send  them  a  copy  of  his  translation  of  the  New  Testa- 
ment, which  was  not  then  printed.  He  therefore  went  through 
this  old  book,  improved  the  language  and  meaning,  cleansed  it 
from  the  papistical  leaven  which  was  to  be  found  here  and  there, 
and  used  it  in  the  congregation  and  schools  until  a  translation 
of  the  complete  books  of  the  Old  Testament  was  ready.  This 
was  but  a  slow  work,  for  Ziegenbalg's  voyage  to  Europe  and 
his  death  interrupted  the  work,  so  that  he  got  no  further  than 
the  book  of  Ruth.  He  followed  the  system  of  division  into  chap- 
ters, but  thought  it  better  to  give  up  that  into  verses,  as,  owing 
to  the  different  construction  of  the  languages,  what  would  come 
first  in  Greek  or  Hebrew  would  come  last  in  Tamil,  and  thus 
cause  confusion.     Moreover  he  said  that  God's  word  might  be 


—     84     — 

translated  as  clearly  into  Tamil  as  into  any  European  language, 
and  that  he  did  not  begin  the  translation  of  the  Bible  until  he 
felt  himself  at  home  in  the  language,  and  had  acquired  a  clear 
and  flowing  style.  In  the  year  1740  his  translation  was  put  to 
a  severe  test  when  a  linguistic  dispute  broke  out  between  the 
Missionaries  of  Cuddalore  and  those  of  Tranquebar.  The  Tran- 
quebar  Missionaries,  Pr easier,  Walther  and  Worm,  had  un- 
dertaken to  revise  it  and  had  brought  out  the  Grospel  according 
to  St.  Matthew  in  1739;  but  their  work  was  attacked  by  the  Cud- 
dalore Missionary  Greister,  and  by  Benjamin  Schultze,  who  was 
Ziegenbalg's  successor  in  the  work  of  translating  the  Old  Tes- 
tament, and  who  declared  the  revised  edition  to  be  a  failure.  Be- 
cause the  Roman  Catholic  Beschi  had  laughed  at  the  language 
of  the  Tranquebar  Missionaries,  they  had  now  introduced  poetical 
expressions  quite  incomprehensible  to  the  mass  of  the  people: 
but  Schultze  declares  "that  Ziegenbalg's  translation  is  distinct 
and  clear,  has  been  understood  by  Sudras  and  Pariahs,  by  high 
and  low,  and  that  many  impartial  Brahmins  had  admired  it, 
had  praised  its  distinctness,  and  added  that  they  would  not  take 
upon  themselves  to  do  it  equally  well."  He  therefore  advised 
"that  the  old  translation  of  Ziegenbalg  should  be  retained,  and* 
that  no  one  should  trouble  themselves  about  the  sneers  of  the 
Roman  Catholic,  who  would  of  course  be  better  pleased  if  the 
Bible  were  quite  incomprehensible;  he  said  that  the  Missionaries 
might  as  well  read  from  a  Latin  or  German  as  from  a  high  Tamil 
Bible,  as  it  could  not  be  comprehended  by  the  common  people." 
The  result  was  that  the  new  revised  translation  was  given  up, 
and  that  the  Missionary  College  ordered  Ziegenbalg's  to  be  re- 
printed. His  success  is  the  more  remarkable,  as  he  carried  on 
his  work  without  assistance  from  any  native.  In  a  letter  writ- 
ten in  1708  he   says   that  he  intends  to  be  quite  alone  in  his 


—     85     — 

translation,  merely  employing  a  Malabar  writer  to  put  down 
what  lie  shall  dictate;  "for  I  require  no  help  from  others,  and 
even  if  I  wished  for  it,  I  could  not  get  it.  Neither  amongst  the 
Christians  nor  the  Malabarians  can  I  find  one  person  who  could 
translate  a  sentence  without  mistakes.  It  is  true  that  our  in- 
terpreter knows  several  European  languages,  but  he  has  only 
been  able  to  help  me  in  the  meaning  of  words,  in  which  he  has 
also  been  very  useful  to  my  dear  colleague: — the  grammatical 
rules  I  had  to  find  out  for  myself  by  a  diligent  study  of  Tamil 
books."  Schultze's  attack  on  the  revised  translation  of  St. 
Matthew  was  answered  by  a  sharp  contradiction  from  the  Tran- 
quebar  Missionaries:  still  even  they  agreed  that  he  was  right  as 
to  the  clearness  of  the  translations  by  Ziegenbalg  and  Grund- 
ler. 

We  have  seen  reason  to  admire  the  quickness  with  which 
Ziegenbalg  completed  so  skilful  a  translation  of  the  New  Tes- 
tament, and  we  may  also  wonder  to  see  the  Missionaries  so  early 
supplied  with  the  means  of  printing  and  distributing  it.  But 
the  reason  was  that  Missionary  work  in  the  East  Indies  had 
.awakened  the  sympathy  of  Christians  in  Denmark,  Germany 
and  England,  so  that  what  was  perhaps  not  thought  of  in  one 
place  for  the  furthering  of  the  cause,  was  sent  out  by  another. 
The  English  were  the  first  to  send  a  printing-press  to  the  Mis- 
sion, and  that  leads  us  now  to  speak  of  the  English  friends  of 
the  cause. 

As  the  publication  of  the  first  letter  from  the  Missionaries 
had  caused  great  excitement  in  Germany,  it  was  thought  well 
to  make  it  known  in  England,  and  the  German  chaplain  of 
Prince  George  of  Denmark,  A.  W.  Bohme,  translated  it  into 
English  and  published  it  in  the  year  1709  with  a  preface  and 
a  dedication  to  the  great  society  de propaganda fide  in  partibica 


—     86     — 

transmari?iis,  inviting  it  to  assist  the  Tranquebar  Mission.  Many 
of  the  members  of  the  society,  and  particularly  the  president, 
the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  were  much  interested  in  the 
Mission,  and  yet  they  considered  that  the  society  would  be  go- 
ing beyond  its  charter,  if  it  interfered  with  the  East  Indies,  as 
the  West  Indies  were  so  clearly  pointed  out  as  its  field  for  work: 
but  another  society  took  up  the  request  most  jealously,  "the 
Society  for  promoting  christian  knowledge  "  which  has  since 
become  so  important  to  the  Tranquebar  Mission,  supporting  it 
for  many  years  both  by  actions  and  advice.  Some  members  of 
this  society  met  several  times  during  the  week  to  deliberate  on 
the  Mission  to  the  Hindus,  and  what  they  determined  on,  was 
then  laid  before  the  whole  society.  A  short  account  of  the  aims 
of  the  Mission  was  printed,  and  circulated  not  only  in  London, 
but  throughout  England,  with  a  request  for  subscriptions.  This 
request  met  with  so  favourable  a  reception  that  the  society  was 
not  only  enabled,  as  has  been  stated  before,  to  have  the  New 
Testament  printed  in  Portuguese,  but  hearing  how  much  money 
the  Missionaries  had  been  obliged  to  spend  on  the  copying  of 
books,  it  despatched  a  printing-press  with  Roman  letters  and 
all  the  necessary  apparatus.  But  as  it  was  of  no  use  to  send  a 
printing-press  if  no  one  in  Tranquebar  understood  the  use  of  it, 
the  society  took  a  pious  man  of  the  name  of  Jonas  Fincke  (who 
had  been  for  some  time  teacher  at  the  German  school  in  Lon- 
don) into  its  service,  caused  him  to  be  taught  printing,  and  hav- 
ing obtained  a  free  passage  from  the  East  India  Company  both 
for  press  and  printer,  despatched  both  in  the  spring  of  1711. 
But  the  Hon.  Company's  ship  was  taken  by  the  French  on  the 
coast  of  Brazil,  Fincke  was  plundered  and  made  a  prisoner  of 
war.  The  ship  was  afterwards  released,  and  allowed  to  continue 
her  voyage;  but  Fincke  was  attacked  by  a  violent  ferer  and 


—     87     — 

died  off  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope.  All  that  was  in  the  ship's  hold 
had  escaped  the  French  plunderers,  and  thus  the  printing-press, 
together  with  books  and  paper  reached  India  almost  unhurt  in 
August  1712.  It  fortunately  happened  that  amongst  the  Com- 
pany's soldiers  who  were  in  Tranquebar,  there  was  one  who  un- 
derstood printing.  The  Missionaries  were  enabled  to  engage 
him,  to  pay  him  wages,  and  began  to  print  Portuguese  books. 
In  the  year  1712  they  brought  out  a  translation  of  Prof. 
Franeke's  five  questions  on  the  order  of  grace  and  an  A.  B. 
C.  and  in  1 7 1 3  they  printed  the  small  Catechism,  an  extract  from 
Spener's  catechism,  the  history  of  the  passion,  a  hymn-book, 
and  a  report  of  the  Tranquebar  schools. 

The  Tamil  printing-press,  which  quickly  followed  the 
Portuguese,  was  duo  to  the  German  friends  of  the  Mission. 
They  not  only  collected  gifts  for  the  Mission  from  the  whole  of 
Germany  at  Halle,  but  considered  over  in  what  manner  they 
could  be  of  use  to  it.  The  people  there,  though  unacquainted 
with  the  Tamil  language,  succeeded  in  making  some  Tamil  let- 
ters, which  they  hastily  tried  and  sent  out  to  Tranquebar;  where 
the  first  part  of  the  New  Testament,  as  well  as  other  things, 
was  printed  with  them.  This  sample,  the  very  first  thing  ever 
printed  in  Tamil  characters,  was  the  Apostle's  Creed,  and  the 
friends  in  Halle,  when  they  despatched  it  with  the  printing- 
press,  requested  soon  to  be  requited  by  a  copy  of  the  New  Tes- 
tament in  Tamil.  Three  people  went  with  the  press,  Johann 
Berlin,  Johann  Gottlieb  Adler  and  his  brother  aged  14  years 
who  reached  India  after  an  uncommonly  quick  voyage.  As  the 
Missionaries  had  a  printer  already,  Berlin  was  placed  in  the 
Portuguese  school.  Adler  was  a  great  assistance  to  the  Mission 
during  many  years  both  as  a  letter-founder  and  a  mechanic,  for 
as  the  letters  sent  from  Europe  were  rather  large  he  immedi- 


—     88     — 

ately  set  to  work  on  the  preparation  of  smaller  type;  and  it  be- 
ing very  expensive  to  get  paper  from  Europe,  he  set  up  a 
paper-mill  at  Poreiar;  this  was  afterwards  given  up. 

While  Germany  and  England  were  thus  emulous  in  assist- 
ino-  the  Mission,  its  founder,  King  Frederick  IV,  was  by  no 
means  inactive;  but  both  he  and  the  whole  royal  family  were 
anxious  to  prove  their  love  to  the  cause.  The  king,  who  al- 
ways had  the  Missionary  reports  read  to  him,  rejoiced  in  the 
progress  of  the  work,  but  was  soon  grieved  to  hear  of  the  oppo- 
sition to  them,  then  of  a  sad  quarrel,  and  then  of  the  gravest 
accusations  against  the  Missionaries.  He  often  expressed  him- 
self to  their  advantage,  and  declared  that  he  would  support  them 
in  the  position  in  which  he  had  placed  them.  In  order  to  secure 
the  necessary  income  to  the  Mission  in  future  years,  the  king 
decreed  in  the  year  1711  that  2000  Rix-dollars  should  be  year- 
ly set  aside  from  the  treasury  for  the  East  Indian  Mission, 
partly  to  pay  four  Missionaries,  partly  to  keep  up  the  schools 
and  other  institutions.  This  arrangement  is  entered  in  the 
Fundatsen  for  Postkassen  of  the  19th  of  Jul  v  1712,  and  in 
§  3  of  the  same  it  is  said  "  Under  pain  of  God's  punishment  no 
change  is  to  take  place  in  this;  but  this  donation  shall  remain 
as  a  perpetual  gift  and  alimentation  for  the  Missionaries,  and 
those  connected  with  the  schools."  Certainly  one  knows  what 
is  generally  the  fate  of  these  eternal  gifts,  but  this  one  has  last- 
ed till  now,  and  to  the  honour  of  the  successors  of  Frederick  IV 
be  it  spoken,  they  have  rather  added  to  than  decreased  the  sum, 
even  in  the  most  pressing  times,  and  when  the  spirit  of  the 
Mission  had  so  nearly  evaporated  that  it  was  unable  to  keep 
up  the  respect  which  had  formerly  been  its  due. 

The  Court-preacher  Liitkens  received  the  news  of  this 
donation  on  his  dvinff  bed,  and  was  filled  with  the  most  living 


—     89     — 

joy:   " now  I  shall  die  willingly "  said  he  "after  having  lived 
to  feel  this  joy.    God  bless  the  King."    A  Royal  Rescript  was 
sent  to  the  Direction  of  the  East  India  Company,  enjoining 
them  to  make  known  to  the  Commandant  and  Council  in  Tran- 
qnebar  that  they  were  not  to  use  force  or  severity  towards  the 
Missionaries,  but  were  to  help  them  in  every  way  in  the  pro- 
secution of  their  work,  until  the  differences  which  had  arisen  be- 
tween the  Commandant  and  the  Missionaries,  should  be  settled 
by  a  Royal  resolution.     When  the  Tamil  printing-press  was 
sent  out,  the  King  gave  a  Latin  Protectorium  to  Berlin  and 
Adler,  and  two  years  later  he  gave  the  Missionaries  permission 
to  print  in  Tranquebar  without  being  'subject  to  the  Censor. 
How  the  king  supported  the  Mission  by  money,  and  did  not 
allow  himself  to  be  disheartened  by  untoward  events  will  be  best 
seen  by  the  following  Royal  letter  to  the  Missionaries: — 
"Venerable,  Beloved,  Faithful! 
From  the  most  gracious  letter  which  we  sent  to  you  on  the 
19th  of  January  you  will  learn  our  most  gracious  pleasure  in 
your  faithfulness  and  activity.     On  the  10th  of  February  we 
sent  on  board  the  East  Indiaman  Dansborg  2000  Rix-dollars 
which  we  graciously  sent  to  assist  you  in  your  work  which  is  so 
pleasing  to  Grod,  besides  the  yearly  sum  which  is  appointed  for  you 
from  our  treasury.     But  as  by  the  permission  of  Grod,  the  ship 
Dansborg  was  wrecked  not  far  from  Skagen  in  Jutland,  we  have 
thought  fit  that  you  should  not  suffer  by  this  misfortune,  but 
have  renewed  our  former  gift,  so  that  you  will  receive  2000 
Rix-dollars  by  the  first  ship  from  England;  and  we  shall  fur- 
ther take  care  that  the  sum  destined  for  you  from  the  treasury 
shall  leave  England  in  May,  or  soon  after.  When  we  read  your 
letters  to  the  late  Dr.  Liitkens,  and  Bishop  Ocksen,  especially 
that  of  the  5th  January  1712,  we  were  not  a  little  rejoiced  to 

8 


90     — 

see  that  in  spite  of  the  opposition  which  contrary  to  our  most 
gracious  will  and  intention,  has  befallen  you,  you  have  shown 
yourselves  immovable  and  courageous.  The  plague,  war,  and 
other  disturbances  have  prevented  the  fulfilment  of  your  wishes 
as  to  a  final  decision  being  given  about  these  long  disagree- 
ments. But  wre  have  already  given  such  orders,  and  even  now 
are  sending  such  commands  to  the  Commandant,  that  we  have 
no  doubt  of  his  fulfilling  them  with  the  most  submissive 
obedience.  We  shall  in  future  make  such  arrangements  that 
our  subjects  shall  not  be  any  obstacle  to  you  in  the  prosecution 
of  your  work.  More  especially,  that  there  should  not  be  any 
hinderance  to  the  advantage  which  you  expect  from  the  Tamil 
and  Portuguese  printing-press,  we  herewith  send  you  a  most 
gracious  privilege  allowing  you  to  print  without  supervision 
from  the  Censor,  feeling  confident  that  you  will  use  it  with  such 
circumspection,  that  no  one  will  have  any  reason  to  complain 
of  you.  Go  bravely  forward  with  the  work  of  your  profession, 
promote  the  conversion  of  the  heathen  to  whom  you  have  been 
sent,  and  know  that  you  may  feel  assured  of  our  constant  favour, 
and  that  you  may  freely  lay  your  just  complaints  before  us;  as 
it  is  our  most  gracious  pleasure  to  receive  your  dutiful  accounts 
of  your  progress  in  the  work  of  conversion,  and  to  make  ar- 
rangements for  the  removal  of  any  obstacles  and  hinderances 
thereto.  We  remain  favourably  disposed  to  you  with  all  grace. 

Frederick  R. " 
Copenhagen,  26th  February  1714. 

The  Crown-Prince  also  (afterwards  Christian  VI.)  to  whom 
the  Missionaries  had  dedicated  their  correspondence  with  the 
natives,  wrrote  to  them  in  the  following  terms: — 

u  We  have  seen  with  much  pleasure,  both  by  your  letter 
dated  January  3rd  1713,  and  by  the  correspondence  dedicated 


—     91     — 

to  us,  that  you  still  Tseep  up  your  laudable  zeal,  and  take  all 
measures,  both  by  speaking  and  writing,  to  destroy  the  king- 
dom of  Satan  and  to  raise  the  kingdom  of  Christ  in  the  souls 
of  men.  Now  we  can  well  imagine,  and  we  see  some  signs  in 
your  dedication,  that  heavy  difficulties  and  various  oppositions 
have  met  you  in  your  christian  efforts,  for  the  enemy  of  the 
human  race  is  very  ready  to  lay  first  one  and  then  the  other  in 
your  way  in  order  to  hinder  the  progress  of  the  Gospel  amongst 
the  blind  heathen,  and  to  make  your  occupation  useless.  But 
you  are  well  aware  that  it  has  always  been  the  custom  of  the 
evil  spirit  to  oppose  all  that  is  good,  and  to  hinder  the  exten- 
sion of  Christ's  kingdom.  Therefore  do  not  let  this  discourage 
you,  for  if  it  were  not  so,  you  might  doubt  whether  your  work 
were  pleasing  to  the  Lord:  indeed  you  must  be  so  far  from  allow- 
ing this  opposition  to  frighten  you  from  your  undertaking  which 
is  so  pleasing  to  God,  that  you  must  rather  gain  a  more  cheer- 
ful courage  therefrom,  and  continue  with  comfort  the  work 
which  you  have  begun,  ever  remembering  that. he,  whose 
honour  you  sincerely  seek  to  advance,  and  who  will  work  in 
you  powerfully  by  his  spirit,  is  far  stronger  and  more  power- 
ful than  all  your  adversaries.  And  next  to  God,  you  may  ex- 
pect particular  protection  and  active  help  from  the  king,  our 
most  gracious  Sovereign  and  father,  if  you  continue  to  show, 
as  you  have  hitherto  done,  that  you  have  nothing  so  much  at 
heart  as  the  honour  of  God  and  the  eternal  welfare  of  his  wan- 
dering sheep.  Neither  will  we  fail,  so  far  as  in  us  lies,  to  re- 
cognize your  faithfulness  and  earnest  work  with  much  favour, 
and  to  assist  the  progress  of  this  beneficial  work  to  the  utmost 
of  our  power.  May  the  Lord  give  you  the  spirit  of  wisdom, 
courage,  gentleness  and  patience,  that  you  may  walk  upright- 
ly in  his  eyes  and  in  the  eyes  of  all  men,  and  enlarge  his  flock 

8* 


—     1)2     — 

by  your  discreet  zeal  and  untiring  diligence.  Further,  as  we 
are  convinced  of  your  humble  obedience  and  gratitude  by  your 
dedication  and  your  christian  wishes,  we  assure  you  that  we 
have  graciously  accepted  both,  and  we  remain  favourably  dis- 
posed to  you  with  all  grace. 

Christian.  ' 
Copenhagen,  26th  January  1714. 

Liitkens  had  retained  the  superintendence  of  the  Tranque- 
bar  Mission  as  long  as  he  lived,  and  when  he  died  and  the 
Bishop  of  Zeeland  would  have  nothing  to  do  with  it,  the  king 
put  it  into  the  hands  of  Professors  Trellund  and  Lodberg,  but 
towards  the  close  of  the  year  1714  he  founded  a  regular  College 
for  this  purpose,  called  Collegium  de  cursu  evangeliipivmovendo, 
but  generally  called  the  Mission  College  which  consisted  of  the 
following  members: — Privy  Counsellor  J.  G.  von  Holsten  (who 
was  President  for  many  years,)  the  Lord  Steward  to  the  Queen 
W.  M.  von  Buseck;  the  theological  Professor  Johann  Steenbuch, 
Provost  and  Profr.  Jakob  Lodberg,  and  the  Chamberlain  to  the 
Princes  Chr.  Wendt  (Secretary.)  This  College  received  (10th 
Dec.  1714)  its  instructions  from  the  king,  concluding  thus: — 
"  This  is  our  most  gracious  will,  which  we  desire  to  be  sub- 
missively followed,  as  you  will  answer  for  it  in  time  and  eter- 
nity, before  us  and  the  Lord  and  Judge  of  all.  Keep  yourselves 
faithful  servants  to  God  and  your  king,  that  our  zeal  and  care, 
and  your  work  may  not  be  in  vain."  In  January  1715  the 
Mission- College  published  a  Prospectus  and  invited  others  to 
participate  in  the  work. 

The  Mission  now  had  a  strong,  one  might  almost  say  a 
too-decided  protection  from  royalty,  which  did  not  escape  the 
attention  of  the  English.  Already  in  December  1714  the  Eng- 
lish society  wrote  thus  to  Tranquebar:  — (t  It  seems  to  us,  dear 


—     93     — 

Brethren,  that  in  carrying  on  your  work  you  place  a  little  too 
much  hope  on  the  help,  power,  and  command  of  His  Majesty  the 
King  of  Denmark  (which  however,  we  heartily  wish  you 
should  obtain)  and  that  you  nourish  the  thought,  that  all  the 
difficulties  which  have  stood  in  your  way  hitherto  will  give 
way,  and  that  your  work  will  go  on  easy  if  but  the  king  will  pro- 
tect and  help  you.  But  you  know  that  the  spread  of  the  gos- 
pel does  not  depend  on  human  power,  but  on  the  spirit  of  God, 
and  that  the  Lord  alone  gives  blessing  and  prosperity.  He  is 
powerful  enough  to  carry  on  the  work,  not  only  without  human 
help,  but  even  when  human  power  is  opposed  to  it.  The  Chris- 
tian religion  has  always  blossomed  most  beautifully  under  cross- 
es and  tribulations,  and  will  always  so  blossom.  Raise  your 
eyes  therefore  to  the  hills  from  whence  cometh  help,  and  let  your 
trust  be  in  the  Lord  who  has  made  heaven  and  earth." 

I  cannot  refrain  from  quoting  another  part  of  the  same 
letter  where  English  friends  say:  —  "We  do  not  doubt  that 
your  work  has  been  made  much  easier  to  you  by  the  printing- 
press  which  you  are  now  arranging;  but  take  care  that  you  are 
not  inconsiderately  led  into  so  much  translating  and  printing 
that  you  do  not  find  sufficient  time  for  constant  intercourse 
with  the  heathen." 

Such  counsel  must  certainly  be  called  a  word  at  the  right 
time. 


aOQOaQQOQP  ■ 


CHAPTER  VII. 

PLUETSCHAU  GOES  HOME.— ZIEGENBALG'S  VISIT  TO  EUROPE  AND 
RETURN  TO  TRANQUEBAR.  —  THE  NEW  JERUSALEM  -  CHURCH  IS 
BUILT.  — ZIEGENBALG'S  ADDRESS  WHEN  THE  FIRST  STONE  IS  LAID. 

In  the  year  1711  Plutschau  went  home,  in  order  to  give 
a  viva  voce  report  of  the  progress  of  the  Mission,  and  to  make 
active  efforts  for  the  removal  of  the  obstacles  which  the  Com- 
mandant still  continued  to  throw  in  the  way  of  the  Missionaries. 
Plutschau  received  the  highest  testimonials  from  Ziegenbalg 
"  We  are  actuated  by  the  same  spirit,"  said  he,  "and  are  quite 
of  one  mind  in  every  thing,  which  has  facilitated  and  helped 
our  employment  not  a  little."  After  some  years  of  faithful 
work  in  Tranquebar  he  longed  to  return,  and  before  his  depar- 
ture it  was  arranged  that  he  should  not  come  back,  but  should 
remain  in  Europe  to  further  the  cause  of  the  Mission  there; 
not  a  trace  however  remains  of  his  having  done  anything  there 
for  the  good  of  Tranquebar.  He  became  Pastor  of  Beyenflieth 
in  Holstein. 

The  Missionaries  being  still  fettered  by  obstacles  occupied 
the  time  which  remained  free  from  the  care  of  the  congrega- 
tions  in  translating  the  Bible  and  in  other  christian  works; 
sometimes  they  went  on  journies,  and  at  the  time  of  Pliitschau's 
departure,  Ziegenbalg  was  on  the  point  of  starting  on  a  jour- 
ney to  Madras  ■  which  had  very  nearly  cost  him  his  life.  He 
heard  in  Madras  that  a  great  heathen  feast  was  to  take  place 
at  Tirupadi,  at  which  great  numbers  of  the  worshippers  of 


—     95     — 

Vishnu  were  accustomed  to  assemble;  he  therefore  determined 
to  go  there  and  take  the  opportunity  of  publishing  the  word 
of  God  to  the  heathen.  He  travelled  five  days  into  the  interior, 
making  known  the  Gospel  wherever  he  went,  to  the  pleasure 
of  the  Hindus  but  to  the  great  dissatisfaction  of  the  Brahmins. 
As  the  country  was  overflowed,  and  he  was  generally  obliged 
to  walk  bare-foot,  he  got  swellings  and  boils  on  his  feet.  On 
the  fifth  day  he  was  obliged  to  rest  till  the  swelling  and  pain 
should  pass  off  a  little.  Some  Brahmins  came  and  had  a  con- 
versation with  him,  but  went  away  very  angry.  The  next  mor- 
ning before  4  o'clock,  while  he  was  still  asleep,  a  school-boy 
named  David,  (who  afterwards  became  a  Catechist)  who  was 
with  him,  heard  the  Brahmins  coming  up  very  softly;  "  He 
sleeps  "  said  they,  in  the  Telugu  language,  which  David  under- 
stood "come  let  us  kill  him."  The  boy  immediately  awoke 
Ziegenbalg  who  called  up  his  people,  and  the  murderers  fled. 

The  congregation  in  Tranquebar  increased  in  spite  of  all 
hinderances,  and  in  the  year  1712,  when  Ziegenbalg  and  Griind- 
ler  concluded  their  first  historical  account  of  the  Mission,  it 
consisted  of  more  than  200  persons,  while  more  than  50  child- 
ren were  taught  in  the  school  for  the  natives;  these  numbers 
increased  proportionably  in  the  following  years,  but  more  slow- 
ly than  the  Missionaries  thought  it  might  and  ought  to  have 
been.  They  felt  themselves  hindered  in  their  usefulness  in  many 
way,  and  thought  that  the  Danish  Government  might  remove 
the  obstacles  by  stringent  rules.  When  no  result  appeared  from 
Pliitschau's  return  to  Denmark — he  seems  to  have  been  one  of 
those  quiet  men,  who  follow  their  path  and  do  their  work  faith- 
fully, but  are  unable  to  come  forward  with  any  power — Zie- 
genbalg saw  more  and  more  clearly  that  he  himself  ought  to 
undertake  a  voyage  to  Europe.     The  Commandant  and  the 


—     96     — 

Council  had  let  Plutschau  go  very  peaceably,  being  probably 
persuaded  that  he  would  not  be  dangerous  to  them  in  Denmark; 
but  when,  in  the  year  1714  Ziegenbalg  prepared  to  return, 
they  became  very  uneasy  and  thought  it  best  to  make  peace 
with  him  before  he  started.  When  this  peace,  or  amnesty,  was 
offered,  he  accepted  it  willingly,  for  he  was  far  from  feeling 
any  bitterness  towards  his  enemies,  and  was  very  glad  that  the 
Mission  should  be  freed  from  the  persecution  of  its  opposers 
during  his  absence.  A  regular  document  was  therefore  drawn 
up  which  ran  thus : — 

"I  Johann  Sigismund  Hassius,  Commandant  of  Dansborg 
in  Tranquebar,  and  Chief  of  the  states  of  the  chartered  India 
Company,  and  we  Missionaries  Ziegenbalg  and  Griindler,  have 
several  times  consulted  together,  whether  the  differences  which' 
took  place  between  us  several  years  ago,  might  not  be  arranged 
to  the  satisfaction  of  both  parties  and  to  the  requirements  of 
our  employments,  so  that  the  past  might  be  forgotten  and  for- 
given; but  this  has  never  come  to  pass,  because  each  wished 
to  show  his  zeal  in  the  exercise  of  his  profession  and  was  de- 
termined to  stand  by  his  rights  to  the  uttermost.  But  as  we 
learn  from  the  letters  we  have  lately  received  from  Copenhagen 
that  an  amnesty  is  much  desired  there,  and  do  not  doubt  that 
his  Royal  Majesty  of  Denmark  and  Norway  wTould  confirm 
it,  we  the  undersigned,  in  the  name  of  God  and  in  consi- 
deration of  our  christian  obligations,  as  also  for  the  further- 
ance of  the  work  of  conversion  amongst  the  heathen  and  for 
the  general  good,  have  taken  the  christian  and  firm  determina- 
tion to  forget  and  forgive  for  ever  all  those  quarrels  which 
have  taken  place  between  us,  by  whatsoever  name  they  may  be 
called;  and  on  account  of  this  christian  compact  they  are  to  be 
abrogated  for  all  time  and  we  give  each  other  the  assurance 


—     97     — 

that  we  at  all  times  and  on  all  occasions  will  seek  the  advantage 
of  each  other.  On  both  sides  we  feel  assured  that  when  his  Roy- 
al Majesty  of  Denmark  and  Norway  shall  receive  this  amnesty 
by  the  hands  of  Bartholomaus  Ziegenbalg,  the  Missionary,  who 
is  now  about  to  start  for  Denmark,  he  will  give  his  most  gra- 
cious consent  thereto,  and  will  allow  both  sides  to  continue  to 
enjoy  his  royal  favour.  For  the  greater  security  of  both  parties, 
two  similar  copies  of  this  have  been  prepared,  to  which  correct 
signatures  have  been  signed,  and  of  which  each  party  retains 
one. 

J.  S.  Hassius.  Bartholomaus  Ziegenbalg. 

Andreas  Krahe,  Johannes  Ernestus  Griindler. 

C.  Brun. 

Jacob  Panck. 
Tranquebar,  15th  October  1714." 

It  was  a  great  grief  to  Ziegenbalg  to  leave  his  congrega- 
tion and  colleagues.  The  bl&ck  christians  came  to  him  in  tears, 
begging  him  to  alter  his  resolution;  when  he  answered  that  the 
voyage  was  undertaken  for  their  advantage  and  that  he  should 
soon  return,  they  appeared  satisfied,  but  when  he  preached  his 
farewell  sermon  a  cry  of  grief  arose  from  young  and  old.  The 
day  before  his  departure  all  his  congregation  gathered  round 
him;  he  exhorted,  comforted  and  blessed  them,  after  winch  they 
accompanied  him  to  the  shore  entreating  him  not  to  deceive 
their  hopes  by  remaining  away  very  long.  Even  the  heathen 
asked  him  to  remain,  some  wrote  to  him  on  the  subject.  Zie- 
genbalg answered  that  they  could  not  be  in  earnest  as  they 
would  not  pay  any  attention  to  the  gospel  which  had  now  been 
preached  amongst  them  for  so  many  years:  on  this  they  remark- 
ed that  though  they  had  not  accepted  the  christian  religion, 
yet  they  liked  to  have  persons  amongst  them  who  stood  near 


—     08     — 

to  God  and  by  whom  both  they  and  their  country  profited : 
many  of  them  accompanied  him  to  the  sea-shore  and  begged 
him  to  return.  It  was  a  great  comfort  to  him  to  be  able  to 
leave  Grundler  in  Tranquebar; — "I  could",  says  he,  " confide 
everything  with  the  greatest  confidence  to  Grundler,  who  has 
now  been  with  me  for  seven  years,  and  who  is  so  completely 
of  the  same  opinion  with  myself  and  shows  such  skill,  activity 
and  uprightness  in  the  prosecution  of  this  important  work,  that 
I  could  not  have  found  a  better  and  more  faithful  assistant,  if 
I  had  thousands  to  choose  from."  Jordan  went  home  with  Zie- 
genbalg,  but  Berlin  remained  as  an  assistant  for  the  Portuguese 
congregation,  Grundler  taking  the  superintendence  of  the  whole. 
On  the  last  day  of  October  1714  Ziegenbalg  sailed  in  the  ship 
Frederick  IV.  and  undertook  the  occupation  of  chaplain  on  board. 
He  took  with  him  also  a^  boy  from  the  Tamil  school,  in  order  to 
practise  the  language;  and  during  the  voyage  translated  the 
book  of  Joshua  into  Tamil  and  worked  at  a  Tamil  Grammar, 
which  was  afterwards  printed  during  his  stay  in  Halle.  The 
ship  remained  for  a  month  at  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope,  during 
which  time  Ziegenbalg  renewed  his  acquaintance  with  the 
Hottentots.  He  communicated  with  one  of  their  headman  in 
the  Dutch  language,  and  asked  him  whether  he  believed  in  a 
God.  Sir,  answered  he,  who  can  avoid  believing  in  a  God?  Who- 
ever does  not  believe  it,  has  only  to  look  up  or  to  look  down, 
and  he  must  perceive  that  there  is  a  God.  Do  you  then  serve 
this  God?  asked  Ziegenbalg,  to  which  he  replied  that  God  had 
better  servants  than  they  were.  From  his  further  conversation 
it  appeared  that  he  had  some  idea  of  good  and  evil,  of  heaven 
and  hell,  but  that  he  knew  not  where  he  and  his  countrv-men 
would  go  after  death,  the  merciful  God  alone  knew  that,  and 
that  they  were  very  willing  to  be  taught  if  a  priest  were  sent 


—     99     — 

to  them.  On  this  Ziegenbalg  remarked:  "  If  you  accept  the 
christian  religion,  you  must  dress  a  little  more  like  human  be- 
ings, you  must  learn  handicrafts,  and  build  little  houses  or  huts 
into  which  we  can  come  to  make  known  the  word  of  God  to 
you  and  to  begin  something  for  your  advantage:"  —  (their  huts 
are  like  baker's  ovens,  into  which  an  European  can  scarcely 
enter)  to  which  the  Hottentot  answered  "the  Europeans  are 
to  a  great  extent,  fools.  They  build  great  houses,  though  their 
bodies  only  occupy  a  small  space.  They  require  so  much  to  fill 
their  bodies  inside  and  to  clothe  them  outside,  that  they  have 
not  enough  at  home,  but  are  obliged  to  come  into  this  and  other 
countries  to  seek  for  food  and  clothing.  We  do  not  wish  for 
money  or  merchandise,  and  as  we  do  not  dress  or  live  like 
Europeans,  so  we  do  not  need  to  work  and  plague  ourselves  as 
they  do." 

On  the  1st  of  June  1715  Ziegenbalg  landed  at  Bergen  in 
Norway,  whence  on  account  of  the  Swedish  war  he  went  in  a 
Hamburg  ship  to  Hamburg,  and  thence  to  Stralsund,  where 
Frederick  IV.  was  encamped.  He  was  very  graciously  received, 
was  desired  to  preach  before  the  king,  and  to  prepare  a  report 
on  the  state  of  the  Mission; — he  then  went  to  Copenhagen, 
where  he  conferred  with  the  Mission-college,  and  received  most 
favourable  decisions  from  the  Director  of  the  Asiatic  Company. 
He  then  returned  to  Germany  and  spend  most  of  his  time  at 
Halle,  where  he  married  Maria  Dorothea  Salzmann,  who  had  for- 
merly been  his  pupil  at  Merseburg,  where  her  father  was  Govern- 
ment Secretary.  During  his  stay  at  Halle  the  Danish  king 
appointed  him  Provost  to  the  Tranquebar  Mission,  after  which 
during  a  very  severe  winter  he  travelled  through  Holland  to 
England,  where  he  received  great  attention  both  from  the  so- 
ciety for  the  promotion  of  christian  knowledge,  and  from  many 


—     100     — 

eminent  divines;  he  had  an  audience  with  the  king  and  Royal 
family,  preached  many  times  in  the  Savoy  and  royal  Chapels,  and 
received  many  contributions  for  the  Mission.  In  the  month  of 
March  1716  he  left  England  and  reached  Madras  in  August. 
The  news  of  his  arrival  was  joyfully  received,  and  everywhere 
on  his  journey  from  Madras  to  Tranquebar  he  received  marks 
of  love  and  confidence  both  from  Natives  and  Europeans.  The 
Commandant  Hassius  was  recalled  by  the  Company  in  the  year 
that  Ziegenbalg  returned.  His  successor  Brun  showed  great 
good  feeling  towards  the  Missionaries,  especially  in  their  church- 
building. 

The  church  build  in  1707  had  now  become  too  small  for 
the  congregations,  and  they  had  for  some  years  been  thinking 
of  building  another,  but  it  was  not  until  Ziegenbalg  returned 
from  Europe  that  they  set  about  it  in  earnest.  On  the  9th 
February  1717  the  foundation  stone  was  laid  by  the  new  Com- 
mandant, and  Ziegenbalg  preached  on  the  11th  verse  of  the 
3rd  Chapter  of  St.  Paul's  first  Epistle  to  the  Corinthians.  The 
sermon  is  given  here  to  give  the  reader  an  idea  of  his  style. 
His  sermons  were  generally  very  long,  according  to  the  fashion 
of  the  time,  so  that  this  one  is  called  a  short  discourse : — 

u  As  we  are  assembled  here  in  the  name  of  the  tri-une  God 
to  lay  the  first  stone  of  a  new  Church,  we  have  great  cause  to 
remember  these  words  of  the  Apostle:—  ' '  For  other  foundation 
can  no  man  lay  than  that  is  laid,  which  is  Jesus  Christ.''  The 
apostle  does  not  speak  here  of  the  foundations  of  a  Church  of 
brick  or  stone,  but  of  the  foundation  of  the  Christian  Church 
itself,  which  is  the  community  of  the  saints  on  earth,  and  he 
proves  very  forcibly  that  Jesus  Christ  is  alone  its  rudiment  and 
foundation.      Both  as  prophet,  high-priest,  and  king,  he  is  the 


—    161    -- 

foundation  of  the  Christian  Church,  As  prophet  he  is  the  founda- 
tion of  the  Church,  in  that  he,  as  the  greatest  of  all  prophets, 
whose  comino;  had  -been  fortold  lono;  before,  made  known  to  us 
for  our  salvation  the  will  of  his  heavenly  Father  and  the  great 
council  of  God  and  by  his  holy  teaching  pointed  out  the  way 
to  salvation  simply  and  clearly;  on  this  teaching,  the  whole 
Christian  Church  is  built  up  as  on  a  firm  rock,  the  holy  Prophets 
of  the  Old  Testament  together  with  the  holy  Apostles  of  the 
New,  and  all  their  followers,  having  contributed  to  raise  it.  As 
high-priest  he  is  the  foundation  of  the  Church,  in  that  he,  as 
a  true  high-priest,  reconciled  the  whole  world  to  God,  and  on 
the  Cross  offered  himself  up  as  a  perfect  sacrifice  to  his  heaven- 
ly Father  for  our  sins,  and  by  this  sacrifice  obtained  eternal  re- 
demption for  the  whole  human  race,  and  sits  now  as  a  High- 
Priest  at  the  right  hand  of  God,  causing  all  spiritual  benefits  to 
be  richly  poured  out  on  his  faithful  people,  interceding  for  them 
daily,  and  giving  them  his  priestly  blessing.  On  this  priestly 
reconciliation,  sacrifice,  redemption,  intercession  and  blessing 
the  whole  Christian  Church  is  founded,  and  thereby  receives 
through  faith  the  forgiveness  of  sins,  and  God's  grace,  power, 
life,  redemption  and  salvation.  Finally  our  Lord  and  Saviour  Je- 
sus Christ  is  the  foundation  of  his  Church  in  his  kingly  office  and 
in  that  he,  as  Lord  of  Lords  and  King  of  Kings,  has  saved  us 
men  from  the  power  of  sin  and  the  devil,  has  collected  his  Church 
together  on  earth  where  he  rules  and  reigns  over  it  and  is  power- 
ful in  extending  it  amongst  all  people  and  languages,  in  pro- 
tecting it  against  all  enemies,  in  supporting  it  in  all  troubles, 
yea,  even  in  making  it  blessed  to  all  eternity;  and  God's  church 
on  earth  is  so  firmly  founded  on  this  kingly  power  and  domi- 
nion of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  that  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not 
prevail  against  it." 


—    l;>2    — 

"This  Christian  Church,  which  is  built  on  Jesus  Christ 
alone,  and  which  we  see  spread  throughout  the  world,  requires 
visible  church  buildings,  in  which  its  members  may  assemble 
to  unite  in  prayer  and  praise  to  God,  to  hear  the  doctrine  of 
Jesus  for  their  edification  and  growth  in  grace,  and  to  partake 
of  the  holy  Sacraments  to  their  salvation;  so  that  we  see  that  in 
every  place  where  christians  can  excercise  their  religion  freely, 
such  buildings  rise  up  amongst  them.  It  is  true  that  God  has 
no  pleasure  in  great  temples  nor  magnificent  churches.  As  the 
Prophet  says,  the  most  high  dwelleth  not  in  temples  made  with 
hands,  u  Heaven  is  my  throne,  and  earth  is  my  footstool:  what 
house  will  ye  build  me?  saith  the  Lord;  or  what  is  the  place  of 
my  rest?  Has  not  my  hand  made  all?"  We  must  not  therefore 
put  a  fleshly  trust  in  temples  and  churches,  as  if  we  were  good 
christians  and  a  people  well-pleasing  to  God  when  we  have 
churches  amongst  us  in  which  the  true  word  of  God  is  preached 
and  the  sacraments  faithfully  administered,  even  though  our 
lives  do  not  conform  thereto; — the  Prophet  Jeremiah  warns  the 
Jews  against  this,  when  he  says  "  Trust  ye  not  in  lying  words, 
saying,  the  temple  of  the  Lord,  the  temple  of  the  Lord,  the  temple 
of  the  Lord,  are  these.  But  thoroughly  amend  your  ways  and 
your  doings,  and  thoroughly  execute  judgment  between  a  man 
and  his  neighbour."  Therefore  we  must  not  think  that  the  pro- 
clamation of  the  word  of  God  and  the  power  of  the  sacraments, 
are  in  any  way  affected  by  the  absence  or  presence  of  an  exter- 
nal church;  for  our  Lord  himself,  the  foundation  of  the  church, 
did  not  confine  himself  to  the  temple,  but  preached  to  the  people 
in  the  high-ways,  in  the  market-places,  in  the  deserts,  on  moun- 
tains, from  a  ship  and  other  places;  and  the  holy  Apostles  follow- 
ed his  example,  and  generally  baptized  in  rivers,  and  partook 
of  the  Lord's  Supper  in  private  houses,  a  custom  which  the  pri- 


10 


9 


mitive  church  retained  for  many  years  on  2  ccount  of  the  per- 
secution of  heathen  emperors.  And  yet  we  must  acknowledge 
that  the  Church  was  then  in  its  best  condition  and  that  such  teach- 
ing produced  much  fruit." 

u  All  faithful  teachers  and  preachers,  who  labour  in  the 
planting  and  spreading  of  the  Christian  religion,  must  use  their 
utmost  endeavours  to  lead  those  to  whom  they  publish  the  sancti- 
fying doctrines  of  Jesus,  to  become  living  temple  fit  for  the 
habitation  of  the  tri-une  God,  in  which  he  may  perfect  his 
divine  image.  And  yet  it  is  to  be  considered  as  one  of  the  good 
gifts  of  God  when  we  possess  such  Church  buildings  as  enable 
us  to  hold  regular  assemblies  and  to  be  edified  by  the  preaching 
of  the  Word  of  God.  More  especially  we  Europeans,  who  are 
dwelling  in  a  heathen  land,  so  far  from  our  own  christian  Europe, 
should  consider  that  God  has  sent  us  a  peculiar  benefit  in  allow- 
ing us  to  hear  the  Gospel  of  Christ  preached  in  its  full  richness 
and  to  have  such  buildings  amongst  us  in  which  we  may  week- 
ly assemble,  and  use  the  means  of  grace  to  the  salvation  of  our 
souls.  As  in  the  times  of  the  Old  Testament  God  often  allowed 
his  people  Israel,  who  then  formed  the  church  to  dwell  amongst 
heathen  nations,  in  order  to  give  the  latter  an  opportunity  of  be- 
ing converted,  so  now,  we  may  consider  that  God  has  allowed 
us  to  come  into  this  heathen  land,  that  by  our  teaching,  our 
life  and  our  conduct  we  should  give  these  heathens  an  opportu- 
nity of  being  converted.  It  was  particularly  wdth  this  intention 
that  his  Royal  Majesty  of  Denmark  and  Norway,  our  most 
gracious  king  and  ruler,  Frederick  IV.  sent  us  Missionaries 
into  this  country,  that  we  should  publish  the  saving  gospel  of 
Christ  to  the  heathen,  and  by  God's  powTer  work  for  their  con- 
version with  his  word.  From  our  first  arrival  until  this  dav  it 
has  been  our  constant  effort  richly  to  preach  Jesus  Christ  and 


—     104     — 

him  crucified  to  the  heathen  of  these  eastern  countries,  and 
to  help  them  to  snch  faith  in  him  that  they  might  be  freed  from 
their  blindness,  converted  and  saved.  Though  we  grieve  much 
over  the  unfruitfulness  of  our  attempts,  and  see  that  our  aim 
is  gained  with  very  few,  yet  we  have  reason  to  praise  God 
highly  in  that  he  has  not  left  us  quite  without  fruit  and  bless- 
ing, but  has  so  favoured  our  unworthy  service  that  a  small  con- 
gregation has  been  gathered  to  Christ  Jesus  from  amongst  the 
heathen,  which  has  hitherto  been  richly  nourished  with  the 
word  of  God.  By  its  constant  growth,  this  congregation  has 
become  too  large  for  our  present  church,  and  as  we  have  a 
lively  faith  that  God  will  save  more  souls  from  year  to  year, 
we  have  thought  it  right  to  build  a  new  church,  and  are  now 
assembled  to  lay  the  first  stone  in  the  name  of  the  tri-une  God." 
"May  our  Saviour  Jesus  Christ,  who  is  the  foundation  of 
this  Church,  give  his  grace  and  blessing  to  our  undertaking, 
and  not  only  cause  this  building  to  be  finished  without  hinderances, 
but  permit  us  to  attain  our  desire  of  converting  many  heathen 
souls  throughout  this  country,  till  heathenism  shall  be  driven 
out,  and  true  Christianity  make  progress.  May  he  graciously 
take  pity  on  all  these  heathen,  remove  the  curse  which  has  rested 
on  this  country,  drive  away  heathen  blindness  by  the  light  of 
the  Gospel,  and  make  all  here  bright  in  the  East.  As  his  word 
has  come  so  near  to  this  people,  may  he  also  give  them  grace 
that  it  may  reach  their  hearts,  and  enlighten,  convert,  regene- 
rate, justify,  sanctify  and  save  them.  May  he  bring  the  glory 
of  the  false  gods  to  shame  and  make  his  name  great  and  glo- 
rious amongst  them.  May  he  send  down  his  help  from  above  on 
us,  who  are  teachers,  and  give  his  heavenly  blessing  to  our 
work.  Whenever  we  shall  open  our  mouths  in  the  new  Church 
to  glorify  his  holy  name,  may  he  give  divine  power  to  his  word, 


—     105     — 

and  cause  it  to  bring  forth  much  fruit.     May  he  bring  forward 
none  but  faithful  teachers,  who  shall  be  able  and  willing  to  work 
for  the  conversion  of  the  heathen.    May  he  bring  all  who  shall 
assemble  in  this  new  church  to  a  sanctifying  knowledge  of  the 
truth,  and  to  the  obedience  of  the  faith.     May  he  accept  of  all 
those  who  shall  be  baptized  in  the  tri-une  God,  and  keep  them 
constantly  in  the  covenant  of  his  grace.      May  he  strengthen 
the  love,  faith  and  hope  of  those  who  approach  his  holy  table, 
and  arm  them  with  divine  power  to  conquer  the  world,  the 
flesh  and  the  devil.  May  he  graciously  listen  to  the  prayers  and 
grant  the  requests  of  those  who  shall  come  into  this  house  to 
pour  out  their  hearts  before  him  and  to  ask  for  various  gifts. 
May  he  cause  his  word  to  go  forth  from  this  Jerusalem  through- 
out this  heathen  country,  and  open  a  wider  path  for  the  pro- 
gress of  the  gospel  that  the  fulness  of  the  gentiles  may  enter. " 

After  the  first  stone  had  been  laid,  the  building  made  ra- 
pid progress,  and  on  the  11th  of  October  1717,  the  new  church 
was  consecrated,  and  named  Jerusalem  like  the  old  one;  Zie- 
genbalg  preached  on  the  occasion  from  the  6  th  chapter  of  Jere- 
miah, the  19th  to  the  21st  verses.  The  old  church  was  given  up 
to  the  Catechists,  and  used  also  for  funerals.  The  work  of 
church -building  did  not  interrupt  the  work  of  conversion;  in 
the  year  1717,  more  than  thirty  natives  were  admitted  by  bap- 
tism into  the  christian  community,  and  in  1718  upwards  of 
fifty.  In  the  beginning  of  the  year  1718,  Ziegenbalg  undertook 
a  journey  to  Cuddalore  in  order  to  make  all  arrangements  neces- 
sary for  a  school  for  native  children,  which  the  English  wish- 
ed to  establish  there,  and  he  occupied  himself  with  his  usual 
zeal  on  the  way,  in  discoursing  of  the  things  which  belong  to 
the  kingdom  of  God,  both  with  Hindus  and  Mohammedans.  It 
was  after  this  journey  that  he  prepared  the  third  collection  of 


106     — 


his  conversations  with  the  natives,  the  last  book  which  he  sent 
to  the  press,  for  the  time  drew  near  when  this  good  and  faith- 
ful servant  was  to  be  called  from  his  work  amongst  the  heathen 
to  the  rest  of  his  Lord. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

ZIEGENBALG'S  DEATH.  — THE  ARRIVAL  OF  NEW  MISSIONARIES.— 

GRUENPLER'S  DEATH.  —  LETTER  OF  THE  ARCHBISHOP  OF 

CANTERBURY.— CONTROVERSIES  RESPECTLNG  THE 

MISSION.  —  JENS  SIVERTSEN. 

Ziegenbalg  was  the  first  who  preaclied  in  the  new  church; 
he  was  also  the  first  who  was  buried  there.  His  health  had  been 
but  indifferent  d,uring  the  last  months  of  the  year  1718,  and  he 
was  then  seized  with  pains  in  the  stomach  and  a  severe  cough. 
He  still  continued  to  superintend  nearly  all  his  affairs,  but  was 
confined  for  a  whole  month  to  a  sick  bed.  About  Christmas  he 
partially  recovered,  so  that  though  his  voice  was  very  weak,  he 
was  able  to  preach  both  on  that  festival  and  on  New  Year's  day. 
These  sermons  were  his  last.  He  began  to  take  steel  by  the 
advice  of  a  Dutch  physician,  but  could  not  keep  it  up. '  When  he 
became  aware  that  his  strength  was  failing  more  and  more,  he 
called  Gruncller  to  him  on  the  10th  of  February  1719,  gave  up 
the  superintendence  of  the  Mission  to  him,  handed  over  the 
accounts  and  other  documents,  and  placed  in  his  hands  his  last 
will  and  testament,  both  with  regard  to  his  family  and  to  the 
Mission.  He  wished  much  to  receive  the  Lord's  Supper  the 
next  day,  but  when  he  grew  worse  in  the  night,  he  began  to 
long  for  Grrimdler,  yet  waited  till  5  o'clock  in  the  morning,  be- 
fore he  would  allow  him  to  be  called.  Meanwhile  his  wife  read 
to  him  the  14th  to  the  17th  chapters  of  St.  #  John's  Gospel,  the 
8th  Chapter  of  St.  Paul's  Epistle  to  the  Romans,  and  the  5th 

9  * 


—     108     — 

chapter  of  the  2nd  Epistle  to  the  Corinthians.  When  Grund- 
ler  came  he  begged  him  to  administer  the  Sacrament  immedi- 
ately, which  he  did  with  hearty  prayers  and  many  tears.  In  the 
afternoon  he  called  the  whole  congregation  before  him,  exhort- 
ed them  and  bade  them  adieu.  He  then  seemed  to  rally,  and 
his  family  began  to  entertain  hope,  but  his  strength  did  not  re- 
turn. "On  the  23rd,"  says  his  wife,  "he  rose  in  the  morning, 
and  himself  conducted  morning  prayers  with  me.  From  this  I 
did  not  expect  that  this  would  be  the  day  of  his  death,  but  about 
9  o'clock  the  truth  became  too  evident,  and  I  therefore  sent 
for  Herr  Grundler  and  his  wife.  As  soon  as  he  saw  Grundler 
he  asked  him  to  pray  with  him,  which  he  did.  After  the  pray- 
er, one  who  was  present  said  to  him:  "The  apostle  of  the  gen- 
tiles, St.  Paul,  desired  to  depart  and  to  be  with  Christ, "  to 
which  he  answered  with  a  weak  voice  " 0,  most  willing!  May 
Christ  cleanse  me  from  my  sins  by  his  blood,  and  clothed  in 
his  righteousness,  allow  me  to  leave  the  earth  to  enter  into  his 
kingdom."  When  he  was  in  the  pains  of  death,  and  laboured 
painfully,  one  said  to  him  "  This  is  the  last  contest;  hold  out 
courageously  by  the  strength  of  Christ,  and  think  with  Paul: — 
I  have  fought  a  good  fight,  I  have  finished  my  course,  I  have 
kept  the  faith.  Now  is  there  laid  up  for  me  a  crown  of  righte- 
ousness, which  the  Lord,  even  the  righteous  judge,  shall  give 
me  in  that  day."  To  this  he  answered  "Ah  yes,  through  Christ 
I  shall  endure  in  this  contest,  that  I  may  receive  a  like  glorious 
crown."  Some  what  later  he  said,  "I  can  say  no  more.  May 
God  bless  that  which  I  have  spoken."  Grundler  answered, 
"The  Lord  will  cause  what  you  have  spoken  to  be  an  eternal 
blessing,"  on  which  Ziegenbalg  said,  "Christ  says,  Father 
I  will  that  where  I  am,  there  my  servant  may  be  also," 
he  then  put  his  hand  hastily  to  his  eyes  and  exclaimed   "  How 


—     109     — 

is  it  all  so  clear;  it  seems  as  if  the  sun  were  shining  in  my 
eyes."  He  then  asked  that  the  hymn  "  Jesus,  meine  Zuversicht" 
("He  in  whom  I  put  my  trust")  should  be  played  on  the  Piano 
and  sung,  which  was  done;  the  hymn  was  sung  all  through. 
At  last  he  asked  to  be  lifted  from  his  bed  and  placed  in  his  arm- 
chair, where  he  died  almost  immediately,  aged 36  years.  "But," 
says  his  wife,  "the  patience,  peace  and  complete  resignation  to 
the  will  of  God  with  which  he  bore  all  his  sufferings  and  his 
whole  illness  will  be  indelibly  impressed  on  my  heart  as  long  as 
I  live."  The  next  day  he  was  buried  in  Jerusalem  church; 
Griindler  preached  the  funeral  sermon  on  the  29  and  30th  verses 
of  the  3rd  chapter  of  St.  John,  and  showed  1st,  how  Ziegen- 
balg  had  rejoiced  in  the  knowledge  of  Christ  and  wished  to 
make  him  known  to  the  heathen,  2nd,  how  he  had  led  the  mem- 
bers of  the  congregation  to  Christ,  and  finally  how  he  had  given 
his  life  to  the  cause. 

Ziegenbalg's  death  caused  universal  grief  both  amongst 
Europeans  and  Natives,  even  including  heathens.  But  no  one 
suffered  more  severely  than  Griindler,  who  had  been  united  to 
him  by  the  closest  brotherly  love,  and  who  had  now  to  support 
the  whole  burden  of  the  work  of  the  Mission.  But  there  were 
two  things  in  which  his  loss  was  most  severely  felt;  viz: — the 
intercourse  with  the  heathen  and  the  translation  of  the  Bible. 
In  these  he  had  been  a  master,  and  his  loss  was  for  the  time 
irreparable.  Griindler  was  suffering  both  in  mind  and  body, 
but  it  was  not  the  time  to  give  way  to  sickness.  For  some 
months  he  was  so  weak  that  he  was  obliged  to  sit  while  he  was 
preaching.  On  one  such  occasion,  he,  in  the  presence  of  the 
congregation,  begged  God  with  many  tears  not  to  chastise  his 
poor  flock  so  severely  and  not  deprive  them  of  both  their  shep- 
herds at  once,  but  according  to  his  mercy  and  love  to  prolong 


—     110     — 

his  life  until  the  arrival  of  the  new  Missionaries  who  were  then 
on  their  way,  and  until  he  should  have  instructed  them  in  their 
work.  The  Lord  heard  his  prayer. 

His  three  new  colleagues  arrived  in  September.      These 
were,  Benjamin  Schultze  of  Sonnenburg  in  the  province  of  Neu- 
mark,  Nikolaus  Dal  from  the  village  of  Anslet  in  the  district 
of  Hadersleben,  and  J.  Ileinrich  Kistenmacher  from  Burg  in  the 
Duchy  of  Magdeburg,  of  whom  the  two  first  worked    many 
years  for  the  East  India  Mission,  but  the  latter  was  called  away 
by  death  in  1722.     It  is  easy  to  understand  that  the  managers 
of  the  Mission  in  Halle  and  Denmark  made  all  possible  haste 
to  send  off  these  men  as  soon  as  they  had  offered  their  services, 
because  Ziegenbalg  and  Griindler  had  repeatedly  sent  earnest 
entreaties  for  help;  but  to  be  in  such  a  hurry  for  their  depar- 
ture as  not  to  ordain  them  was  almost  inexcusable,  and  had  very 
nearly  caused  the  young  congregation  in  Tranquebar  to  be  left 
without  any  ordained  teacher.   When  Schultze  and  his  compa- 
nions arrived,  they  heard  of  Ziegenbalg's  death  and  Griindler's 
severe  illness.     It  is  true  that  Griindler  was  rather  better,  and 
began  immediately  to  instruct  the  new  comers  in  the  language, 
to  make  them  acquainted  with  the  congregation  and  to  intro- 
duce them  to  the  heathen;  but  this  was  only  a  beginning  which 
was  soon  interrupted  by  Griindler's  illness  and  death.  This  faith- 
ful servant  of  the  Lord  had  for  many  years  accustomed  himself 
to  the  idea  of  living  and  dying  in  India,  as  his  letters  to  his  re- 
lations prove.     In  a  letter  dated  1712,  he  writes  to  them  "  Do 
not  think  that  I  shall  return  to  Europe.  It  is  true  that  the  ap- 
pointed three  years  have  passed,  but  I  do  not  think  that  in  spite 
of  all  our  wishes,  we  have  yet  begun  to  work  properly  at  the 
conversion  of  the  heathen.  In  the  strength  of  God  we  will  make 
a  good  beginning  this  year,  and  go  bravely  forward  in  years  to 


—   Ill   — 

come,  so  that  the  prince  of  darkness  and  his  idol-worshippers 
shall  give  way  to  Jesus,  who  is  king  over  the  heathen  also. 
Pray  for  me  your  son  and  brother,  for  it  is  God  who  must 
strengthen,  support  and  protect  us.  The  help  of  man  is  of  no 
avail,  and  we  have  it  not,  but  only  their  enmity."  In  another 
letter  he  expresses  himself  thus:  —  "  Do  not  entertain  any  hopes 
of  my  return,  for  my  dear  colleague,  Provost  Ziegenbalg  and 
I  have  quite  determined  to  show  our  love  to  Gocl  and  to 
the  wishes  of  our  most  gracious  king  by  sacrificing  our  lives 
to  the  service  of  the  heathen  here  in  the  East  Indies,  and  to 
appear  before  the  throne  of  the  Lamb  with  our  black  brethren." 
Ziegenbalg  had  now  gone  to  his  home,  and  Grimdler  who 
had  seen  the  fulfilment  of  his  wish  with  regard  to  his  successors, 
was  soon  to  follow  him.  In  the  beginning  of  the  year  1720 
he  was  attacked  with  diarrhoea  to  which  he  paid  little  attention 
at  first,  but  as  it  lasted,  he  took  precautions  against  it.  He 
was  thinking  on  taking  a  journey  into  the  dominions  of  the 
great  Mogul,  and  as  an  opportunity  offered  of  going  to  Cuddalore 
in  an  English  ship,  he  wished  to  take  advantage  of  it;  but  before 
starting  he  ordained  Schultze  and  appointed  him  as  his  sub- 
stitute; Schultze  preached  on  this  occasion  from  1.  Cor.  9, 
27.  His  friends  wished  much  to  dissuade  him  from  the  journey, 
but  he  was  determined,  saying  that  this  was  an  opportunity 
which  scarcely  offered  itself  once  a  year.  With  five  persons, 
amongst  whom  were  two  experienced  catechists,  he  began  his 
journey  on  the  10th  of  February,  but  becoming  worse,  he  re- 
turned to  Tranquebar  in  a  very  exhausted  state  on  the  27th  of 
the  same  month.  "  On  the  15th  of  March, '  says  Schultze, 
"I  was  frightened  to  see  him  come  to  church,  and  I  asked  him 
what  he  wished."  "To  read  the  Liturgy  from  the  altar,"  said 
he.    uBut,"  said  I,  "you  can  scarcely  walk,  and  you  suffer  so 


—     112     — 

from  thirst,  that  you  can  scarcely  speak;  why  do  you  wish  to  do 
this?"  "I  must,"  answered  he.  "He  sat  a  little  time  in  the 
vestry  and  drank  some  cold  tea,  to  quiet  his  burning  thirst. 
This  was  his  last  walk;  —  he  wished  to  pronounce  the  blessing 
over  the  congregation  he  was  about  to  leave,  aud  thus  to  say 
his  final  adieu." 

On  the  19th  of  March  Schultze  was  with  him  early  in  the 
morning  to  talk  over  affairs  connected  with  the  Mission;  he 
was  fatigued  and  hot,  but  no  one  thought  that  it  would  be  his 
last  day.  When  Schultze  was  obliged  to  leave  him,  he  wished 
him  every  blessing,  and  lay  quietly  praying  till  in  the  afternoon 
he  gave  up  the  ghost,  aged  43  years.  "Who  can  feel  greater 
grief  than  I,"  says  Schultze,  "  whose  heart  can  weep  more  than 
mine?  here  lay  the  last  support  of  the  Mission.  I  was  inex- 
perienced both  in  the  strange  language  and  in  the  extensive 
business  of  the  Mission.  For  half  a  year  my  soul  refused  to 
be  comforted  and  could  not  submit  to  the  severe  blow  which  God 
had  given  me,  and  this  lasted  until  it  pleased  the  Most  High  to 
rejoice  and  comfort  me  by  his  help.  Help  and  counsel  were 
difficult  to  be  obtained,  but  I  have  found  every  thing  in  God. ' 
Grundler  was  buried  the  next  day  in  Jerusalem  Church  near 
to  Ziegenbalg  and  Schultze  preached  from  Revelations  14,  13. 
These  two  men  of  God  lie  buried,  the  one  on  the  right,  the 
other  on  the  left  side  of  the  altar,  and  the  places  are  marked 
by  copper  plates,  with  Latin  inscriptions,  composed  by  Schultze. 

We  will  here  give  an  encouraging  letter  from  the  Arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury  to  Ziegenbalg  and  Grundler,  (which,  be- 
ing dated  from  the  1st  January  1719,  arrived  in  Tranquebar  af- 
ter Ziegenbalg's  death)  as  a  witness  of  the  opinion  which  the 
Primate  of  England  entertained  of  the  Tranquebar  Mission. 
"  It  is  very  long,  Reverend  Sirs,  since  I  had  the  pleasure  of 


—     113     — 

receiving  your  letter.     During  this  time  I  have  often  sought  a 
good  opportunity  for  sending  you  my  best  thanks  for  your  kind 
feeling  towards  me,  and  as  such  an  opportunity  is  now  offered 
by  our  common  friend,  Mr.  Newman,  I  send  you,  my  Brothers 
and  Fellow -workers  in  the  Lord,  my  hearty  New- Year's  wishes 
for  all  good,  and  pray  that  by  God's  grace,  you  may  bring  many 
from  darkness  to  light,  from  idolatry  to  the  worship  of  the  true 
God,  from  the  shades  of  death  and  the  power  of  Satan  to  the 
hope  of  eternal  life  and  the  freedom  of  the  children  of  God 
through  the  merits  and  mediation  of  our  dear  Lord  and  Savi- 
our! Amen.      Reverend  Sirs,  As  often  as  I  read  your  letter  to 
the  Society  for  the  propagation  of  the  Gospel  (whose  chief  orna- 
ment you  are,)  and  turn  my  attention  to  the  fact  of  the  light  of 
the  Gospel  now  rising  to  the  people  of  India,  shining  again  up- 
on them  after  the  lapse  of  so  many  centuries,  I  can  but  praise 
the  unspeakable  goodness  of  God,  who  has  visited  so  many  and 
such  distant  nations,  and  esteem  you  very  happy  in  that  God 
has  called  you  to  this  excellent  work  to  the  honour  of  his  name 
and  to  the  salvation  of  so  many  thousand  souls.   Let  others  gain 
titles  and  honours,  for  which  they  have  neither  gone  through 
trouble  or  danger,  but  lived  perhaps  in  idleness,  or  in  the  com- 
mon round  of  their  profession  amongst  christians,  but  you  will 
gain  both  lasting  fame  in  time  and  a  great  reward  in  eternity, 
for  you  have  laboured  in   the  vineyard  which  you  yourselves 
planted  in  faith,  you  have  made  known  the  name  of  Christ 
amidst  innumerable  dangers  and  difficulties,  you  have  assembled 
a  congregation  where  his  name  was  before  unknown,  and  you 
have  faithfully  remained  by  it  to  support  it.      I  consider  that 
your  lot  is  far  higher  than  all  church-dignities.     Let  others  be 
prelates,  patriarchs  and  popes,  let  them  be  adorned  with  pur- 
ple and  scarlet,  let  them  desire  bowings  and  genuflections;  you 

10 


—     114     — 

have  won  a  greater  honour  than  all  these,  and  when  that  day 
comes  when  the  great  Shepherd  shall  reward  his  sheep  each  one 
according  to  his  work,  a  far  more  magnificent  recompense  will 
be  given  to  you,  for  you  shall  be  taken  into  the  holy  company 
of  the  Prophets,  Evangelists  and  Apostles,  and  shall,  with  them, 
shine  like  suns  amongst  the  stars  for  ever. 

Judging  of  you  from  all  impartial  accounts,  such  a  reward 
will  certainly  be  given  you,  and  as  such  a  glorious  recompense 
awaits  you  in  heaven  for  all  your  labours  and  dangers,  continue 
indefatigable  in  the  work  to  which  the  Holy  Ghost  has  called 
you.  God  has  already  given  you  a  pledge  of  his  grace  in  the 
progress  you  have  made,  which  could  not  have  been  accomplish- 
ed without  his  powerful  aid.  You  have  begun  successfully,  go 
on  courageously.  He,  who  has  conducted  you  in  safety  over  so 
many  seas  to  those  distant  coasts,  and  who  has  given  you  such 
favour  in  the  eyes  of  those  whose  protection  was  important  for 
your  work;  he,  who  will  give  you  rich  support  in  that  work, 
far  surpassing  your  expectations,  leading  new  members  into 
your  flock  to  their  eternal  salvation,  he  will  also  continue  to 
favour  your  efforts,  and  by  your  means  bring  India  into  his 
service. 

How  happy  you  will  be  when  standing  before  the  throne 
of  Christ  and  presenting  those  heathen  who  have  been  convert- 
ed by  your  preaching,  you  shall  say  "  Here  are  we,  Lord,  and 
those  whom  thou  hast  given  us,"  and  then,  justified  in  that  day, 
you  shall  not  only  receive  from  your  Redeemer  the  blessed  re- 
ward of  your  work  but  shall  hear  that  noble  praise  "  Well  done, 
good  and  faithful  servants,  enter  ye  into  the  joy  of  your  Lord." 

May  the  good  and  great  God  favour  you  in  every  part  of 
your  work !  May  he  give  you  colleagues,  as  numerous  and  as 
useful  as  you  can  desire;  may  he  extend  your  church;  may  he 


—     115     — 

open  the  hearts  of  those  to  whom  you  preach  the  Gospel  of  Christ, 
that  they  may  receive  saving  faith,  and  may  he  protect  you  and 
yours  from  all  evils  and  from  all  dangers.  And  when  you  have 
finished  your  course,  may  he  who  has  called  you  to,  and  sup- 
ported you  in  this  work,  give  you  an  unfading  crown  of  glory. 

So  wishes  and  prays  Venerable  Men, 

Your  faithful  fellow-labourer  in  Christ 

William  Cantuar. 

At  our  residence  of  Lambeth,  1st  January  1719." 

I  should  have  liked  to  have  closed  the  account  of  Ziegen- 
balg's  and  Griindler's  labours  with  this  testimony  to  their  use- 
fulness, but  it  seems  right  to  bring  those  forward  also  who  speak 
of  the  Mission  and  the  Missionaries  in  a  very  different  tone  J 
more  especially  as  the  friends  to  the  work  were  free  in  Den- 
mark to  praise  that  which  the  king  and  the  court  favoured  and 
encouraged,  while  its  opposers  expressed  their  feelings  either 
anonymously  or  under  assumed  names,  sometimes  in  manu- 
script, or  by  books  printed  abroad,  in  order  to  escape  the 
Censor.* 

The  contest  between  the  stiff  upholders  of  orthodoxy  and 
the  so-called  Pietists,  whose  head  quarters  were  at  Halle,  was 
carried  on  with  great  acrimony  in  Germany  in  the  beginning  of 
the  18th  century,  and  as  the  first  Missionaries  came  from  Halle, 
this  was  quite  enough  to  make  them  suspicious.  We  have  al- 
ready described  that  in  1708  when  they  were  suffering  from 
great  distress  and  poverty,  they  were  attacked  with  shameful 
accusations  in  a  disputation  held  at  Wittenberg.    In  the  same 

*  A  long  note  follows  here  giving  the  titles  of  all  the  writings  against  the  Mis- 
sion, and  in  an  Appendix  a  manuscript  is  given  at  length  entitled  "A  short  and  true 
relation  of  the  rise  and  progress  of  the  Dano-Malabarian  Mission; — written  from 
pure  love  to  truth,  by  Christian  Aletophilos  A.  D.  1715;"  but  it  was  thought  that  these 
very  rare  and  obscure  books  would  be  of  little  interest  to  the  English  reader. — Trans. 

10* 


—     116     — 

year  one  of  the  combatants,  V.  E.  Loscher,  Superintendent  at 
Dresden,  began  to  speak  of  the  Mission  to  the  East  Indies  in  his 
periodical  called  "Unschuldige  Nachrichten,"  praising  the  thing 
itself  and  blessing  king  Frederick  IV  for  his  undertaking,  but 
raising  doubts  about  the  calling  of  Missionaries  in  general  and 
about  the  orthodoxy  of  the  Missionaries  of  Halle.  The  same  tone 
was  taken  up  both  in  Denmark  and  Germany,  by  all  who  were 
opposed  to  the  Halle  school,  and  they  received  fresh  strength, 
when  in  1711  J.  Q.  Bovingh  returned  to  Europe,  much  dis- 
contented with  the  other  Missionaries. 

This  Westphalian,  J.  G.  Bovingh,  and  his  book  have  trou- 
bled me  a  great  deal;  for  on  the  one  side,  he  is  an  eye-witness, 
who  was  in  the  closest  relation  with  the  Missionaries,  as  their 
colleague,  for  some  years;  so  that  his  report  on  the  East  India 
Mission  of  which  he  took  quite  a  different  view  than  Ziegenbalg 
and  Grimdler  cannot  be  entirely  disregarded;  —  on  the  other 
side  he  shows  himself  to  have  had  a  personal  feeling  against 
these  men,  by  whom  he  felt  himself  left  in  the  back  -  ground  ; 
he  shows  himself  moreover  to  have  been  the  instrument  of  a 
secret  but  bitter  party  who  wished  to  overthrow  the  Mission 
and  therefore  I  cannot  but  place  his  work  on  a  level  with  the 
others  which  proceeded  from  the  same  source. 

Bovingh*  did  not  bring  out  his  book  himself;  but  a  friend  of 
his  made  use  of  the  journal  which  he  kept  on  his  voyage  to 
India  in  1708 — 9,  of  his  remarks  on  the  Hottentots  during  a 
three  week's  stay  at  the  Cape,  of  an  account  of  Tranquebar  and 
the  Malabarians,  and  of  some  letters  which  he  wrote  with  a 
great  deal  of  warmth  to  a  "friend  in  Holstein  while  there  was  a 
disagreement  between  himself  and  his  colleagues. 

The  anonymous  compiler  published  these  all  in  the  lump, 
though  Bovingh  himself  says  in  one  of  his  letters,  that  owing 


—     117     — 

to  sickness  and  his  ignorance  of  Tamil  his  accounts  are  very 
insufficient,  adding  that  he  should  be  very  sorry  if  any  one  ask- 
ed for  his  writings  in  order  to  print  them.  u  It  might  happen" 
adds  he,  "that  many  things  might  be  taken  in  a  sense  entirely 
wrong:  and  then  one  could  but  say  relata  refero."  After  such  a 
declaration  one  cannot  pass  a  very  severe  judgement  on  Bovingh 
for  the  contents  of  his  book,  but  must  reserve  our  indignation  for 
the  man  who  printed  his  imperfect  statements,  but  he  being 
anonymous,  escapes  likewise. 

According  to  Bovingh,  his  colleagues  began  to  overlook 
him  even  before  they  left  Copenhagen.  Griindler  alone  took 
charge  of  the  money,  and  kept  the  key  of  the  box  in  his  pocket. 
Disunion  and  quarrels  arose  on  the  voyage.  The  others  thought 
that  his  prayers  and  expositions  of  Scripture  were  spiritless,  and 
would  not  acknowledge  him  as  a  good  Christian,  so  that,  says  he, 
I  advise  every  true  Israelite  not  to  undertake  such  a  trouble- 
some voyage  with  people  from  Halle.  As  soon  as  they  landed, 
Grundler  and  Jordan  prejudiced  the  first  Missionaries  against 
him,  and  as  he  did  not  approve  of  all  that  Ziegenbalg  did,  more 
especially  his  severe  letters  to  the  Council,  his  situation  became 
still  worse,  and  when  he  was  seized  with  illness  not  long  after, 
the  rest  looked  upon  it  as  the  judgement  of  God:  instead  of  re- 
ceiving consolation  from  them,  Plutschau  who  was  his  Confes- 
sor treated  him  very  harshly.  When  Plutschau  not  long  after 
was  taken  with  the  same  illness,  he  was  treated  by  the  others 
in  the  same  way.* 

*  However  much  this  may  be  overdrawn  in  Bovingh's  account,  yet  there  seems 
to  have  been  really  some  disagreement  between  Ziegenbalg  aud  Plutschau,  which 
accounts  for  the  return  of  the  latter  in  1711  and  for  his  inactivity  afterwards  for  the 
Mission.  In  spite  of  this,  Bovingh  could  not  draw  over  Plutschau  to  his  side,  for  he 
complains  of  his  Nicodemus-like  fear,  and  that  he  would  not  break  with  the  people 
at  Halle. 


—     113     — 

Though  Bovingh  is  obliged  to  allow  Ziegenbalg's  diligence 
and  magnificent  command  of  languages,  and  though  his  account 
in  many  respects  strengthens  what  we  have  hitherto  said  in  his 
favour,  yet  he  raises  many  complaints  against  the  conduct  of 
the  first  Missionaries;  some  unimportant,  but  others  important. 
He  accuses  them  of  wasting  the  money  belonging  to  the  Mission, 
The  large  sum  which  arrived  in  1709,  was  soon  gone;  had  they 
followed  his,  Bovingh's,  advice,  there  would  have  been  2000 
Rthlr.  remaining,  and  the  interest  would  have  been  almost 
enough  for  them  to  live  on.  The  Commandant  Hassius  had 
declared  that  the  Missionaries  were  enough  to  consume  a  whole 
kingdom.  The  state  of  the  congregation  was  bad.  It  was  only 
the  poorest  and  most  miserable  people  who  became  proselytes; — 
slaves,  who  came  to  church  perhaps  twice  a  year  and  who  were 
soon  sold  again  by  their  masters;  papists,  who  made  fools  of 
the  Missionaries,  in  order  to  gain  some  worldly  advantage  from 
them  and  then  went  their  way;  —  and  shilling-christians,  who 
kept  to  the  congregation  as  long  as  money  was  distributed  week- 
ly (which  greatly  encouraged  idleness)  but  remained  away  as 
soon  as  the  supplies  were  stopped;  so  that  the  Roman- Catholics 
were  not  wrong  in  saying  that  the  Missionaries  bought  people. 
Ziegenbalg  had  put  an  end  to  the  Missionary  -  Conference  in  a 
very  arbitrary  way,  and  had  taken  entire  possession  of  the  money 
which  came  from  Halle,  keeping  it  in  a  separate  chest,  which 
might  be  called  a  hellish,  instead  of  Hallish  chest,  for  it  became 
a  regular  apple  of  discord.  He  had  made  an  evil  use  of  the  power 
of  the  keys  in  excluding  Pliitschau's  writer  from  the  congrega- 
tion; he  had  also  abrogated  the  reading  of  the  Collect,  Gospel 
and  Epistle  at  the  early,  and  afternoon  service,  and  had  preach- 
ed very  little  of  faith  and  salvation,  but  suspiciously  of  works 
and  other  doctrines  &c. 


—     119     — 

I  have  now  laid  Bovingh's  complaints  before  the  reader, 
and  will  proceed  to  add  some  remarks.  He  is  united  in  his 
views  to  the  bitterest  enemies  of  the  Mission,  Commandant 
Hassius  and  the  Papists;  much  of  what  he  adduces  is  mere 
talk  and  much  is  clearly  untrue.  The  sequel  of  the  Mission  has 
fully  given  the  lie  to  his  prophecy  of  future  misfortunes.  His 
often  repeated  wish  was  that  an  orthodox  Theologian,  well  ver- 
sed in  dogmatic  and  casuistic  theology  should  be  sent  to  take  the 
superintendence  of  the  Mission:  if  this  were  not  done,  he  fear- 
ed that  the  whole  work  would  fall  to  the  ground.  Now  this  was 
not  done,  and  when  some  time  after  a  Provost  (Probst)  was 
appointed,  it  was  that  very  Ziegenbalg  whom  he  had  calum- 
niated, and  yet  the  work  stood  and  increased.  But  what  be- 
came of  Bovingh  who  was  so  wise  in  his  own  conceit,  that  he 
wished  to  begin  to  work  amongst  the  heathen  on  his  own  ac- 
count,  and  in  October  1710  bought  a  native  dress  in  which  he  in- 
tended to  preach  the  gospel? — In  1711  he  had  done,  and  went — 
home  to  get  a  parish,  while  Ziegenbalg  and  Griindler  sacrificed 
their  lives  in  the  service  of  the  Mission.  Meanwhile  he  did  great 
harm  to  these  far-away  living  men,  who  had  by  his  thought- 
less judgement  to  wait  for  their  justification  from  a  future  gene- 
ration, for  the  controversial  writers  of  that  day  ever  again  re- 
peated, that  Bovingh  had  altered  his  opinion  of  the  Tranque- 
bar  Mission. 

"  It  is  alas!  but  too  certain,  '  says  the  Apologia  et  Apolo- 
geticum  secundum  pro  sententia  Anonymi  Hauniensis^  u  that  the 
Missionaries  are  pietists  and  heterodox.  Any  one  who  wishes 
to  be  convinced  of  this  need  only  turn  to  the  Halle  reports, 
2  Contin.  p.  85  and  101  where  Millenarian  hopes  are  express- 
ed. Instead  of  relating  other  errors,  it  will  be  enough  to  say 
that  thev  are  saturated  with  the  Halle  theolon;v,  with  the  ex- 


—     120     — 

ception  of  one,  J.  G.  Bovingh  from  Kiel.  Herr  Johann  Sigismund 
Hassius,  Commandant  of  Dansborg,  particularly  accuses  them 
of  pietistic  heterodoxy  in  a  letter  which  he  wrote  on  the  20fch 
of  October  1707  to  the  Reverend  Mr.  Ivar  Brinch  (then  after- 
noon-preacher and  provost  of  Holmens  Church)  and  of  which 
I  have  a  copy  before  me.  In  the  account  of  the  quarrel  amongst 
the  Missionaries,  which  was  printed  in  1712,  Bovingh,  who  was 
then  a  Missionary,  describes  their  heterodox  notions  and  proves 
that  it  is  highly  important  that  an  orthodox  theologian  should 
be  sent  out  as  their  Inspector.  If  it  is  advanced  that  tney  can- 
not be  heterodox  because  they  were  examined  and  approved  by 
the  Bishop,  who  afterwards  ordained  them,  I  should  answer 
that  they  could  very  easily  conceal  their  pietistic  errors  during 
an  hour's  examination;  but  how  unwillingly  Bishop  Bornemann 
was  to  receive  them,  and  what  approbation  they  reaped,  is 
known  to  all,  and  need  not  be  repeated  here." 

Now  that  suspicions  had  thus  been  thrown  on  the  ortho- 
doxy of  the  Missionaries,  and  that  Bovingh  was  ready  to  say 
so  much  against  them,  it  will  readily  be  believed  that  great  dis- 
content arose  when  the  king  continued  to  protect  them.  "When 
a  royal  letter"  Pontoppidan  relates,  "was  sent  through  Den- 
mark, ordering  a  petition  for  the  India  and  Finmark  Mission 
to  be  introduced  into  the  Church  prayers,  a  spirit  of  distrust 
arose  which  showed  itself  in  a  Latin  pamphlet  by  an  anony- 
mous author  (Dr.  Joh.  B.)  which  had  a  large  circulation.  How 
rational  this  was  may  be  judged  from  the  fact  that  the  princi- 
pal reasoning  was  that  as  the  law  was  only  once  given  from 
Mount  Sinai,  the  Gospel  should  only  once  be  given  from  Mount 
Zion  or  Jerusalem  &c. — but  the  conversion  of  the  northern  na- 
tions in  the  9th  century  is  of  itself  sufficient  to  prove  the  falsity 
of  this.     Another  anonymous  author  (Wendt,  a  member  and 


—     121     — 

Secretary  of  the  Missionary  College)  answered  this  very  forcibly. 
Yet  he  did  not  bring  his  opponent  to  reason,  for  the  latter 
brought  out  a  rejoinder,  which  was  as  bad  as  his  first  production." 
As  Pontoppidan's  decision  is  not  quite  impartial,  I  must 
quote  something  more  of  the  anonymous  pamphlet,  and  then  show 
who  that  Dr.  Joh.  B.  is,  who  is  mentioned  by  Pontoppidan  as  its 
author.  Leaving  out  what  is  quite  incongruous  and  unimportant, 
the  following  train  of  thought  may  be  quoted: —  "The  conver- 
sion of  the  Jews  took  place  in  the  first  Christian  times.     The 
fulness  of  the  Gentiles  has  been  gathered  in.      If  the  work  of 
conversion  is  to  recommence,  it  must  be  with  the  Jews.      But 
as  the  solemn  announcement  of  the  law  only  took  place  once, 
so  must  it  be  with  the  gospel.     In  any  case  there  must  be  a 
particular  call  to  it,  like  that  of  Jonah  when  he  was  sent  to 
Nineveh.  The  prophets  did  not  travel  about  the  world,  and  Christ 
blames  the  Pharisees  who  did  so.      After  Christ's  Church  had 
been  founded,  the  Apostles  commanded  their  successors  not  to 
go  forth,  but  rather  to  watch  over  the  flocks  which  had  already 
been  gathered  together.  If  any  one  is  to  be  sent  out,  he  should 
be  orthodox,  in  possession  of  the  gift  of  tongues,  of  learning  and 
of  wisdom;  but  the  Tranquebar  Missionaries  are  pietists;  their 
converts  are  slaves,  who  have  been  attracted  by  the  love  of  money 
or  freedom;  they  have  not  converted  a  single  Mohammedan. 
Whether  we  should  pray  for  the   conversion  of  the  heathen 
(with  the  exception  of  Jews,  Turks  and  Heretics)  without  a 
particular  reason  constraining  us  thereto,  I  leave  to  wiser  peo- 
ple to  decide."  It  is  true  that  remarks  are  to  be  found  in  this  pam- 
phlet which  may  be  useful  to  Missionary  work;  but  it  is  not 
concealed  that  it  is  hatred  to  the  Halle- School  which  brings  them 
forth,  and  it  is  still  more  clearly  shown  in  the  two  Apologies 
which  followed  it.      The  tone  of  these  is  passionate  and  coarse 

11 


—     122     — 

throughout^  and  may  be  taken  as  a  proof  of  the  bitter  feeling 
against  the  Mission  in  one  section  of  the  Danish  Church. 

Pontoppiclan  tells  us  that  Dr.  Joh.  B.  was  the  author  of 
the  above  pamphlet,  and  by  these  letters  can  only  be  meant  the 
then  Professor  of  Theology,  Johannes  Bartholin,  as  I  shall  pro- 
ceed to  show.  In  that  same  year,  1715,  there  appeared  a  manu- 
script in  the  German  language  entitled  "  A  short  and  true  ac- 
count of  the  rise  and  progress  of  the  Dano  -  Malabar  Mission ; 
by  Christian  Alethophilus."  In  this  the  theological  Professor 
Trellund  is  attacked,  partly  on  account  of  his  share  in  the  ma- 
nagement of  the  Mission,  partly  on  account  of  some  declarations 
he  had  made  about  it  in  a  disputation.  That  Trellund  laid  this 
attack  to  the  account  of  his  colleague,  Bartholin,  is  to  be  seen 
from  the  comic  dedication  of  his  "Vindication  of  Truth"  which 
he  put  forth  against  this  attack.  He  dedicates  his  book  to  the 
Bishop  and  the  other  members  of  the  theological  faculty,  Bar- 
tholin, Steenbuch,  and  Lintrup,  and  desires  them  to  judge  be- 
tween him  and  his  anonymous  assailant;  but,  he  adds,  "  Bishop 
Worm,  having  approved  my  disputation  which  is  herein  attack- 
ed, has  in  a  way  made  it  his  own,  and  therefore  cannot  judge 
his  own  cause;  Steenbuch,  who  is  a  member  of  the  Missionary 
College  cannot  do  so  either,  neither  indeed  can  Lintrup  who  has 
acted  as  Censor  to  the  book.  Therefore  I  must  beg  you,  my 
dear  colleague,  Johann  Bartholin,  to  take  the  office  of  judge 
upon  yourself,  you  who  are  fortunately  left  to  me  when  I  am  rob- 
bed of  the  others.  Only  give  your  usual  care,  and  do  what — I 
will  not  say,  a  friend  (for  I  do  not  wish  to  mention  our  friend- 
ship here)  but  an  impartial  judge  and  the  first  theological  Pro- 
fessor of  our  Faculty  must  do.  I  do  not  desire  you  to  give  me 
the  name  of  my  assailant,  though  probably  it  would  be  known 
to  you  sooner  than  to  me,  but  only  if,  as  it  may  chance,  you  are 


—     123     — 

acquainted  with  his  obscure  name,  that  you  will  speak  to  the 
conscience  of  that  man,  and  as  a  judge  and  a  theologian,  lay 
the  business  of  his  conduct  before  him,  that  he  may  secretly 
strive  to  do  away  with  the  wicked  and  public  insult  which  he 
has  thrown  on  an  innocent  theologian,  who  never  did  him  any 
harm." 

Bartholin's  party,  very  naturally  could  not  bear  to  see  him 
thus  placed  in  the  pillory,  and  in  the  year  1718  an  answer  ap- 
peared at  Amsterdam,  entitled  si  Truth  justifies  itself"  in  which 
the  personal  attack  on  Bartholin  was  not  left  unnoticed.  The 
author  warns  Trellund  to  beware  of  the  fate  of  Asahel(2.  Sam. 
2.)  who  pursued  Abner,  and  would  not  be  moved  by  his  war- 
nings to  leave  him,  and  was  in  consequence  struck  through  by 
Abner's  spear.  "Trellund,"  it  says,  "calls  out,  strikes  and  hurts  by 
his  pointed  dedication,  an  old  experienced  and  learned  theologian, 
who  is  also  his  innocent  colleague,  and  who  could  not  possibly  know 
anything  of  Alethophilus  and  his  writings  sooner  than  Trellund 
himself."  Thus  we  see  that  Pontoppidan's  opinion  of  Bartholin's 
authorship  was  not  founded  on  any  thing  that  he  or  his  party 
had  acknowledged,  but  that  he  was  pointed  out  as  the  leader  of 
the  cabal  against  the  Mission  by  those  who  defended  it. 

It  is  easy  to  imagine  that  Trellund  and  the  cause  which  he 
advocated  meet  with  no  gentle  treatment  in  the  Amsterdam  pub- 
lication. The  mode  of  operation  is  the  same  as  in  the  attacks 
which  had  preceded  it.  The  Mission  is  praised,  but  the  ortho- 
doxy of  the  Missionaries  is  suspected,  without  their  having  been 
convicted  of  departing  from  sound  teaching  in  any  particular. 
How  far  these  personalities  are  carried,  may  be  judged  from  the 
account  given  of  the  noble  and  active  Ziegenbalg,  who,  without 
even  a  pretence  at  proofs,  is  called  '  'a  Pietist  and  an  impions  Idiot , 
who  behaves  in  Tranquebar  more  like  an  innkeeper  and  a  mer- 


—     124     — 

i 

chant,  titan  a  Missionary,  and  who  cares  much  less  about  con- 
version than  about  his  base  gains."  I  think  that  the  reader  who 
has  learned  to  know  Ziegenbalg  better,  will  be  satisfied  to  close 
the  whole  affair  with  this  specimen,  and  yet  will  not  be  sorry 
that  all  these  attacks  have  been  thus  brought  to  light.  I  cannot 
but  remark  what  a  powerful  light  they  throw  on  the  position  of 
theological  parties  at  that  time,  though  this  is  not  the  place  for 
considering  them  at  length. 

Of  all  that  was  written  in  defence  of  the  Mission,  Hornung's 
disputation  u  On  the  conversion  of  the  heathen"  is  the  largest. 
He  divides  it  into  four  chapters;  the  first  treats  of  the  call  of 
the  heathen  in  general;  the  second  of  the  different  ways  and 
means  of  spreading  the  faith;  the  third  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
Missions,  and  the  fourth  of  that  founded  by  Frederic  IV.  Hor- 
nung  passes  in  review  the  objections  which  have  been  brought 
against  the  Mission,  and  speaks  of  the  mistrust  which  has  been 
publicly  expressed  of  the  orthodoxy  of  the  Missionaries,  "  I  will 
not  mix  in  the  new  quarrels  which  have  now  lasted  for  some 
years  on  this  subject,  for  others  have  already  answered  these 
complaints,      The  Missionaries  have  been  accused  of  holding 
Halle  principles  (of  which  it  has  not  yet  been  proved  that  they 
are  opposed  to  the  analogy  of  faith,)  but  no  reasonable  person 
has  any  cause  to  doubt  their  orthodoxy.    I  am  certain  that  the 
late  Liitkens  and  other  excellent  and  far-sighted  men  would  not 
have  recommended  these  men  to  the  King  for  so  great  a  work, 
had  they  not  been  sound  in  the  faith.       Moreover  they  went 
through  a  double  examination  before  such  a  theologian  as  Bis- 
hop Bornemann,  of  whose  orthodoxy  no  one  can  doubt,  and  re- 
ceived from  him  a  written  and  most  complete  testimoniaL" 
Hornung's  book  is  dedicated  to  king  Frederic  IV. 


—     125     — 

Before  I  leave  the  first  period  of  the  Tranquebar  Mission, 
and  begin  to  relate  how  Schultze  and  his  colleagues  carried  on 
the  work  which  Ziegenbalg  and  Griindler  had  begun,  I  am  in- 
duced to  mention  a  Dane  who  from  the  first  took  part  in  the 
work  with  perseverance  and  faithfulness,  though  in  a  subordi- 
nate position.  His  name  was  Jens  Sivertsen.  In  the  year  1738 
he  had  occasion  to  write  to  the  Mission-College  to  introduce  his 
son,  whom  he  was  then  sending  to  Europe.  As  he  gives  his 
autobiography  there,  I  will  quote  it: — 

"  I  was  born  at  Copenhagen  in  the  year  1690  of  honest  and 
Christian  parents:  they  truly  loved  and  feared  God,  and  brought 
up  me  and  my  brothers  and    sisters  to  do  the  same,  more 
especially  my  mother  who  had  the  principal  care  of  our  education, 
as  my  father  was  very  little  at  home,  for  he  went  as  a  workman 
to  Iceland.  For  some  years  before  her  death  God  visited  her 
with  a  severe  consumption,  and  finally  took  her  from  this  sinful 
earth  when  I  was  but  ten  years  old,  (the  eldest  of  her  four 
children.)     She  had  a  very  christian  and  edifying  end,  and  in 
her  last  moments  she  gave  me  most  powerful  aud  noble  exhor- 
tations to  the  fear  of  God  and  to  piety,  together  with  her  ma- 
ternal blessing,  which,  thanks  to  God,  has  not  remained  with- 
out fruit.  When  I  was  fourteen  years  old  I  entered  the  service 
of  Prof.  Soren  Linterup,  who  was  then  Provost  of  the  Convent, 
and  as  from  my  very  childhood  I  had  felt  an  extraordinary  de- 
sire to  see  the  East  Indies  (praying  to  God  for  it  morning  and 
evening)  I  embarked  in  1705  with  the  first  Missionaries  on 
board  the  ship  Sophia  Hedwig,  and  arrived  in  the  roads  here 
on  the  9th  of  July,  1706.     I  remained  in  the  service  of  the 
Company  for  two  years,  and  went  to  Bengal,  Acheen,  and  Ma- 
lacca.  Sometimes  when  I  was  on  shore,  I  attended  the  service 
which  the  Missionaries  performed  several  afternoons  in  the  week 


—     12G     ~ 

for  the  edification  of  the  Europeans,  and  wished  that  God  would 
graciously  give  me  the  opportunity  of  often  enjoying  such  edi- 
fication and  leading  a  christian  and  quiet  life,  for  a  sea-life  and 
the  habits  of  most  sailors  did  not  suit  me.  When  I  understood 
that  on  the  request  of  the  Missionaries  the  Company  was  about 
to  part  with  one  of  its  young  men  in  order  that  he  might  serve 
them,  I  requested  to  be  chosen,  and  in  1708  I  entered  the  ser- 
vice of  the  Mission  in  God's  name; — the  agreement  was  that  I 
was  to  be  satisfied  with  my  board  and  clothing.  Separately  I 
received  5  fano  p.  m.  for  my  breakfast,  and  when  the  late  Zie- 
genbalg  was  out  of  his  prison  in  the  spring  of  1709,  one  Rix-dol- 
lar  was  given  to  me  without  my  asking  for  it,  and  from  the 
October  of  that  year  I  received  in  all  2  Rix-dollars.  As  mean- 
while I  had  made  tolerable  progress  in  Portuguese,  the  Mission- 
aries appointed  me  to  various  services  in  the  school.  I  was  very 
much  grieved  at  this,  and  excused  myself  both  on  account  of 
my  youth  and  my  want  of  knowledge;  but  I  was  obliged  to  con- 
form myself  to  it,  and  set  to  work  tearfully  yet  courageously, 
teaching  not  only  Danish,  but  also  Portuguese  children.  In 
July  1710, 1  received  4  Rix-dollars  monthly,  with  which  I  cloth- 
ed and  fed  myself.  As  I  found  that  I  was  in  the  way  of  another 
Mission  -  servant  of  the  name  of  Otto  Friedrich  Radevitz*, 
I  began  to  think  of  the  sea  again,  and  that  with  all  my  experi- 
ence I  might  become  a  rich  pilot  or  commander;  so  I  asked  for 
my  discharge,  which  was  favourably  given,  and  signed  by  the 
first  four  Missionaries,  and  then  in  September  I  sailed  for  Ben- 
gal. As  soon  as  I  arrived  there  I  received  the  appointment  of 
steersman  in  a  Danish  vessel,  but  after  being  out  four  months 
I  had  suffered  much  from  hunger  and  thirst  and  my  life  had 
been  in  danger." 

*  Radevitz  was  a  Dane  who  served  the  Mission  for  many  years  and  died  as  it* 
Portuguese  school-ma3ter  in  Madras  in  17152. 


—     127     — 

Siverfcsen  goes  on  to  relate,  how  he  returned  to  Tranquebar, 
and  finally  determined  in  March  1711  to  take  service  with  the 
Mission  again,  as  the  Missionaries  were  not  pleased  with  Rade- 
vitz.  From  that  time  he  continued  to  serve  the  Mission,  on 
which  he  says,  "thus  for  30  years  I  have  had  my  full  work  in 
church,  in  school,  and  in  economy,  and  whatever  the  Mission- 
aries ordered  I  have  carried  out  in  singleness  of  heart  with  faith- 
fulness and  diligence.  During  almost  all  the  time  I  have  been 
Precentor  of  the  Portuguese  cono;reo;ation,  and  also  at  those 
times  when  the  service  was  performed  in  German.  For  some 
years  I  used  to  catechise  on  Sunday  afternoons,  and  repeat  the 
Portuguese  sermon  which  had  been  delivered  in  the  morning. 
For  some  years  I  was  steward,  and  kept  the  daily  accounts, 
which  is  now  done  by  the.  native  Canacopoly  (Accountant.)  Now 
for  some  years  I  have  performed  the  Church  service,  and  have 
spent  weekly  in  the  school  two  hours  for  catechising,  three  hours 
for  arithmetic,  four  hours  for  writing  and  one  hour  for  sinking;. 
Every  month  the  Canacopolies  give  me  their  accounts  of  money 
and  rice,  which  I  register  in  a  book  of  which  a  duplicate  is  an- 
nually sent  to  Copenhagen,  and  an  abstract  to  Halle.  More- 
over I  write  a  duplicate  of  the  Missionaries*  journal,  and  trans- 
late and  write  all  Dutch  letters,  so  that  I  have  no  idle  time 
throughout  the  year.  I  have  in  my  charge  and  give  out  every- 
thing connected  with  the.  foundry,  with  the  printing-press  and 
with  the  book-binding,  and  these  I  am  obliged  to  give  out  with 
my  own  hands  as  I  cannot  trust  the  natives.  I  read  through 
the  first  proof-sheets  of  the  Old  Testament  in  Portuguese,  and 
I  have  written  a  Portuguese  ciphering  book  for  the  school,  which 
is  kept  in  the  Mission-library,  while  a  copy  of  it  is  used  in  the 
school.  I  will  not  say  what  I  have  employed  my  leisure  hours 
in,  lest  I  should  be  suspected  of  being  one  who  praises  himself. 


—     128     — 

What  I  write  is  for  the  honour  and  glory  of  God,  who  has  help- 
ed me  and  stood  by  me  for  so  many  years  with  his  Spirit  and 
grace,  preserving  my  life  longer  than  that  of  any  other  European 
connected  with  the  Mission,  so  that  I  can  truly  say  "the  Lord 
has  been  my  helper,"  and  he  has  preserved  me  for  the  great 
joy  of  seeing  the  Mission  succeed  in  spite  of  the  opposition,  per- 
secution, and  obstacles  with  which  Satan  and  wicked  men  have 
tried  to  ruin  it,  showing  it  to  be  his  work,  so  that  it  has  now  spread 
far  and  wide  to  his  honour;  for  which  may  his  name  be  praised 
to  all  eternity." 

"  I  cannot  deny  that  many  situations  have  been  offered  to 
me  by  the  Danish  and  Dutch  companies,  as  well  as  by  private 
individuals,  which  would  have  given  me  double  the  income 
wThich  I  derived  from  the  Mission,  and  which  would  have  led 
me  to  wealth  and  dignity;  but  I  thought  of  my  proper  calling, 
and  considered  how  vain  and  transitory  is  this  world  with  all 
its  riches  and  honours,  and  also  remembered  the  words  of  Christ: 
"  What  shall  it  profit  a  man  if  he  shall  gain  the  whole  world 
and  lose  his  own  soul?"  and  therefore  I  have  never  wished  that 
God  should  give  more  than  daily  bread  and  the  necessaries  of 
life  to  me  and  mine.  He  has  given  it  like  a  gracious  Father, 
even  though  sparingly  at  times,  but  he  as  an  Omniscient  God, 
knows  what  is  best  for  his  children.  I  wish  thus  to  trust  in  the 
help  of  the  Lord.  May  he  give  me  enough  in  this  world  to  leave 
an  honourable  name  and  calling  to  my  family,  but  I  shall  leave 
them  to  a  gracious  God  and  trust  that  he  will  care  for  them  if 
it  should  be  his  pleasure  to  call  me  away  the  first."  Sivertsen 
concludes  his  letter  by  apologising  for  his  bad  composition  and 
illegible  writing  (which  however  in  1838,  a  hundred  years  af- 
ter, is  very  legible)  "but  as  the  writer  who  only  has  the  use  of 
his  right  eye"  (he  had  lost  the  other  from  small-pox  when  only 


—     129     — 

five  years  old)  "can  make  it  out,  he  hopes  that  others  who  have 
the  use  of  two  eyes,  will  be  able  to  read  it  also." 

In  1739  Jens  Sivertsen  hoped  that  after  his  long  and  faith- 
ful service  he  might  be  recalled,  but  he  was  persuaded  to  re- 
main by  the  wish  of  the  College  "till  God  shall  release  me,  and 
graciously  call  me  into  the  heavenly  Father-land,  there  to  serve 
him  for  ever."  He  died  on  the  1st  of  June,  1741,  and  the 
Missionaries  say  that  in  all  that  he  undertook  he  showed  such 
an  unselfish  mind. that  they  could  perfectly  rely  on  his  fidelity. 
His  sincere  fear  of  God  was  clearly  shown  even  in  his  last  hours; 
when  those  who  stood  round  him  saw  that  he  began  to  talk  con- 
fusedly, they  asked  him  whether  he  was  thinking  of  his  Saviour 
and  what  was  his  name,  to  which  he  answered  "Jesus  Christ; 
he  liveth." 


CHAPTER  IX. 

BENJAMIN  SCHULTZE  AND  HIS  COLLEAGUES.      BRANCH  MISSIONS  IN 
MADRAS  AND   CUDDALORE.      THE  MISSIONARIES   IN  TRANQUEBAR 

UNTIL  1740. 

At  Grundlers  death  in  1720,  the  work  of  the  Mission  fell 
upon  Schultze.  If  he  did  not  possess  the  depth  and  solidity  of 
Ziegenbalg  and  Griindler,  he  was  yet  a  man  of  much  power 
to  whom  it  was  easy  to  learn  foreign  languages  and  who  also 
had  the  wish  to  do  so.  In  talent  he  was  far  above  his  colleagues, 
the  sickly  Kistenmacher  and  the  dilatory  Dal,  and  he  therefore 
became  the  head  of  the  Mission  and  behaved  very  nobly  in  the 
difficult  circumstances  under  which  he  was  called  to  indepen- 
dent action. 

The  day  after  Griindler's  death  Schultze  assembled  his 
colleagues  in  the  Mission-library,  and  exhorted  them  not  to  al- 
low their  courage  to  sink,  but  to  continue  the  work  they  had 
begun,  for  which  the  Lord  would  give  strength  and  blessing,  if 
they  trusted  entirely  to  him.  When  thsy  had  strengthened  them- 
selves by  a  hearty  prayer,  pronounced  by  Schultze,  they  vow- 
ed to  give  him  assistance  in  carrying  out  tho  work  which  had 
been  begun,  and  gave  him  their  hands  in  assurance  thereof. 
Schultze  also  assembled  the  native  congregation  and  spoke  to 
them  through  an  interpreter,  as  he  was  not  yet  at  home  in  the 
language.  Notwithstanding  this,  the  congregation  begged  him 
to  administer  the  sacrament  of  the  Lord's  Supper.  Schultze  did 
it  as  well  as  he  could,  but  not  without  difficulty  and  hesitation; 


—     131     — 

when  he  afterwards  apologized  for  this  he  was  met  with  the  as- 
surance that  no  one  had  taken  any  offence,  but  that  they  were 
much  rejoiced  to  see  how  far  the  Lord  had  helped  him.  In  that 
very  month  (April,  1720)  Schultze  preached  in  Tamil  for  the 
first  time,  and  he  made  such  progress  that  he  was  soon  quite 
familiar  with  it.  In  the  summer  he  was  seized  with  a  severe 
fever,  which  left  him  a  swelling  in  the  feet.  As  he  could  not 
walk  to  church,  he  was  carried  there,  and  as  he  could  not  stand 
in  the  church,  he  sat  in  a  chair. 

The  Portuguese  Congregation  had  for  a  long  time  had  their 
hymn-book,  in  which  the  most  beautiful  and  powerful  German 
hvmns  were  collected  and  translated;  but  the  natives  had  since 
Ziegenbalg's  time  only  a  very  small  collection  of  hymns,,  trans- 
lated from  the  German,  so  that  it  was  often  difficult  to  find  suitable 
hymns  on  the  occasion  of  church-festivals.  If  any  one  had  said  to 
Schultze,  you  must,  like  the  late  Ziegenbalg,  set  to  work  to  trans 
late  more  hymns,  he  would  have  answered  that  it  was  impossi- 
ble for  he  was  quite  unequal  to  it;  but  he  relates  in  his  Diary 
for  May  1722  that  "one  evening,  when  my  colleagues  had  left 
me,  the  day's  business  being  over  and  I  left  alone,  I  refreshed 
myself  after  the  fatigues  of  the  day  by  singing  the  beautiful 
song  from  the  Halle  hymn-book  "  Liebe,  diedu  mich  zum  Bilde." 
When  I  had  sung  it  through,  I  felt  cheerful  and  happy.  Then 
it  occurred  to  me;  see,  you  can  sing  that,  but  what  can  the  poor 
Malabar  school-children  ao?  Oh,  thought  I,  if  one  could  but 
make  this  known  to  them!  Then  I  felt  a  desire  to  make  the  at- 
tempt; I  sat  down,  began  to  write,  and  went  on  so  smoothly 
that  I  had  soon  finished  several  verses.  I  was  so  delighted  that 
I  could  not  stop  till  I  had  finished  it.  It  was  then  2  o'clock  in 
the  morning.  Oh,  thought  I,  this  is  charming,  with  God's  help 
we  can  do  much,  with  God  nothing  is  impossible.  He  will  con- 


—     132     — 

tinue  to  help."  The  next  day  Schultze  translated  the  hymns 
"Nun  bitten  wir  den  Heil'gen  Greist"  "Allein  Gott  in  der 
Hon1  sei  Ehr"  and  "Nun  danket  alle  Gott,"  and  in  the  follow- 
ing month  many  more.*  When  he  had  taught  the  native  child- 
ren how  to  sing  them,  he  used  to  take  them  with  him  when  he 
went  to  preach  in  the  country,  and  would  stop  in  the  road  when 
he  reached  a  village,  and  begin  a  hymn  with  the  children  in 
the  European  style.  The  sound  of  40  voices  can  be  heard  to  a 
considerable  distance;  young  and  old,  men  and  women  hasten- 
ed to  see  what  was  going  on  and  in  this  way  he  often  collected 
between  2  and  3  hundred  people.  When  the  song  was  finished,  he 
prayed  and  then  addressed  the  assemblage.  After  this  he  talk- 
ed with  individuals  to  see  whether  his  speech  had  been  under- 
stood, and  though  he  could  not  himself  talk  with  all,  his  cate- 
chists  mingled  with  the  crowd  and  talked  to  the  people  of  what 
they  had  heard.  He  always  spent  one  day  in  the  week  on  these 
excursions,  and  sometimes  preached  four  or  five  times  a  day. 

In  the  vear  1723  Schultze  began  the  continuation  of  Ziehen- 
balg's  translation  of  the  Bible,  which  had  only  reached  as  far 
as  the  book  of  Ruth.  This  little  book  was  the  first  part  of  the 
Bible  which  he  translated,  and  he  carried  it  out  in  this  way. 
He  took  the  Hebrew  Bible  and  read  a  verse  through;  when  he 
was  certain  that  he  understood  it  thoroughly,  he  repeated  it  to 
his  writer  in  Tamil,  when  he  and  other  natives  thought  that  it 
was  well  expressed,  Schultze  dictated  the  verse  for  writing 
down:  then  the  writer  read  it  aloud  to  see  whether  anything 
had  been  left  out,  or  whether  perhaps  some  error  had  been  made 
in  writing  it  &c.  There  was  also  a  learned  Brahmin  present, 
whom  he  had  taken  into  his  service  in  order  to  ask  his  advice 

*Scnulf.ze's  Hymnologia  Tamidka  containing  112  hymns  was  printed  in  1725. 


—     133     — 

in  difficult  passages:  and  if  a  verse  or  text  were  difficult  in  the 
original,  he  had  a  Polyglot  Bible  and  other  good  aids  at  hand. 
So  he  continued,  translating  one  Biblical  book  after  another  till 
in  the  year  1725,  he  had  completed  the  whole,  including  the 
Apocrypha.  The  Psalms  of  David  were  printed  in  1724,  and 
they  made  such  good  progress  with  the  remaining  books  that 
in  1728  the  whole  Bible  was  printed  in  Tamil. 

As  I  have  narrated  that  Schultze,  as  well  as  the  first 
Missionaries,  liked  to  go  out  amongst  the  natives  to  publish 
the  word  of  G-od,  the  reader  may  naturally  wish  to  know  what 
fruit  was  produced  by  their  preaching.  In  general  it  may  be 
said  that  there  were  some  who  embraced  Christianity,  were 
baptized,  and  showed  the  fruits  of  faith  in  their  lives: — but  if 
they  did  not  belong  to  that  little  band  who  became  teachers  of 
their  countrymen  and  of  whom  I  shall  give  full  particulars  at 
a  future  time,  there  is  no  more  to  be  said  of  them  than  of  man  v 
sincere  Christians  of  our  own  times,  whose  lives  flow  on  quietly 
and  unremarked  by  men  though  very  precious  in  the  sight  of  God: 
and  yet  I  am  tempted  to  tell  the  history  of  a  heathen  potter  of 
Anandamangalam,  who  recived  the  name  of  Wedappen  when 
he  was  baptized. 

On  the  25th  of  April  1725  Schultze  went  out  as  usual 
accompanied  by  the  native  school-children,  teachers,  catechists 
and  writers  as  far  as  Anandamangalam,  a  place  about  half  a 
(german)  mile  from  Tranquebar,  in  the  dominions  of  the  king 
of  Tanjore.  At  a  cross-road  they  all  began  to  sing,  so  that  the 
people  who  had  not  seen  them,  might  hear  of  their  arrival. 
A  crowd  gathered  round  them,  he  preached  to  them  and  then 
explained  to  them  what  they  had  heard:  in  the  midst  of  this, 
a  messenger  came  from  one  of  the  principal  men  of  the  place, 
asking  Schultze  to  visit  him  as  he  wished  to  hear  something  about 


—     134     — 

Christianity.  He  therefore  went  into  this  man's  garden,  whither 
the  whole  crowd  followed  him.  The  questions  which  the  rich 
man  wished  to  ask,  were  these:  —  How  can  the  soul  be  united 
to  God?  and  how  can  a  man  be  certain  of  the  truth  of  the 
Christian  religion?  Schultze  answered  that  if  he  accepted  the 
divine  truth  which  was  offered  him,  both  would  become  clear 
for  if  he  opened  his  heart  and  prayed  for  help  from  God,  he 
would  assuredly  find  that  his  doubts  were  cleared  up  and  that 
he  would,  as  David  says"  see  light  in  the  light  of  the  Lord." 
(Ps.  36,  10).  It  now  became  extremely  hot,  and  Schultze,  having 
recommended  him  to  the  mercy  of  God,  said  adieu,  and  was 
going  to  leave  the  garden,  when  a  native  who  had  been  present 
the  whole  time  and  had  paid  great  attention  to  what  was  said, 
came  up  saying  that  he  wished  to  be  saved,  and  asking  what  he 
should  do:  he  had  read  the  Tranquebar  books  and  knew  that 
Jesus  Christ  was  the  Saviour  of  men.  Schultze  talked  with  him 
as  they  walked  along  the  road,  and  when  they  came  to  the  last 
house  of  the  place,  the  Native  stood  still  and  said,  "This  is  my 
house,  come  in  tp  us! "  Schultze  had  wished  to  have  gone  on 
further,  but  thought  that  he  ought  not  to  refuse  this  man's  in- 
vitation. When  he  went  in,  they  wished  him  to  sit  down,  and 
as  there  were  neither  benches,  chairs  nor  stools,  they  turned 
over  a  large  mortar  used  for  punching  rice  for  him  to  sit  upon, 
while  the  rest  squatted  on  the  ground.  The  man  then  brought 
the  Tranquebar  books  which  he  declared  he  had  received  from 
Schultze  himself:  the  latter  could  not  remember  him,  but  ask- 
ed him  whether  he  had  read  them,  and  found  that  he  not  only 
read  with  ease,  but  understood  what  he  read:  and  he  then  heard 
from  him  the  following  history : — 

He  was  a  potter,  as  his  father  and  grand-father  had  been 
before  him,  but  before  he  settled  in  Anandamangalam,  he  had 


—     135     — 

wandered  about  the  country  for  ten  years  without  any  settled 
occupation;  his  inducement  was  that  he  owed  the  priest  10  Rix- 
dollars,  and  as  he  considered  it  a  great  sin  not  to  pay  him,  and 
had  no  chance  of  earning  it,  he  determined  to  beg  through  the 
country  in  which  he  was  so  successful  that  he  returned  in  ten 
years  time  and  paid  his  debt.  But  he  was  now  so  accustomed 
to  idleness  that  he  had  lost  all  taste  for  work,  and  he  had  on  his 
wanderings  become  so  well  acquainted  with  the  devotees  who 
willingly  submit  to  all  sorts  of  bodily  torture  and  are  richly  sup- 
poi'ted  by  alms,  that  he  determined  to  choose  this  mode  of  life, 
and  for  two  years  he  wandered  naked  through  the  country  as 
a  penitent;  he  attracted  several  disciples  who  took  him  as  their 
priest,  and  gained  a  certain  celebrity.  At  the  end  of  this  time 
he  returned  to  his  work,  but  built  a  little  mud  chapel  close  to 
his  house  to  the  goddess  Mariamme,  before  whose  image  he  per- 
formed idolatrous  worship.  As  a  large  serpent  appeared  about 
this  time  in  his  house,  he  imagined  that  it  was  the  goddess  her- 
self, and  set  milk  for  it  whenever  it  came.  He  became  famous 
throughout  the  neighbourhood,  and  the  natives  applied  to  him 
to  heal  the  sick,  to  drive  out  devils,  and  to  foretell  the  future; 
on  which  occasions  he  made  use  of  a  drum  at  the  tones  of  which 
he  seemed  to  become  beside  himself,  twisted  his  head  about  and 
gave  his  answer.  Moreover  he  had  a  pair  of  slippers  made  which 
were  set  with  sharp  spikes,  which  he  wore  when  he  went  as  a 
devotee  from  city  to  city  and  from  house  to  house,  collecting 
alms.  When  he  was  asked  how  he  could  bear  to  walk  with  them, 
he  answered  that  he  felt  nothing,  for  he  felt  as  if  he  were  drunk 
and  stupified;  that  at  midday  he  used  to  take  his  slippers  off 
and  wash  the  blood  from  his  feet,  and  that  he  never  suffered 
from  it.  So  deeply  was  this  man  sunk  in  the  darkness  of  hea- 
thenism, and  yet  God  had  willed  that  he  should  be  saved.  Du- 


—     136     — 

ring  one  of  his  wanderings  he  met  with  a  Roman  Catholic  priest 
who  had  praised  the  Christian  religion  as  the  only  one  which 
could  confer  salvation.  He  had  known  Ziegenbalg  but  had  no 
conversation  with  him;  but  he  seemed  to  feel  confidence  in 
Schultze,  who  soon  perceived  that  his  heart  was  open  to  receive 
the  truth,  which  appeared  to  make  a  great  impression  on  him; 
he  therefore  exhorted  him  earnestly  to  leave  the  hard  service  of 
the  devil,  and  accept  of  faith  in  Christ:  he  taught  him  to  pray  and 
advised  him  when  he  next  saw  the  serpent  to  kill  it  instead  of 
giving  it  milk.  Schultze  then  prepared  to  return,  the  potter 
accompanied  him  part  of  the  way,  and  promised  that  he  would 
never  again  walk  in  his  penitential  slippers.  "Then  they  are  of 
no  more  use  to  you,"  said  Schultze,  "give  them  to  me."  He  as- 
sented with  joy,  and  gave  them  in  charge  to  a  boy  to  carry 
into  Tranquebar.  They  were  sent  to  Halle,  where  they  long 
remained  at  the  Orphanage. 

He  now  sent  his  two  sons  to  the  Mission- school,  but  was 
soon  persuaded  by  his  friends  to  take  them  away  again.  The 
Missionaries  however  did  not  give  him  up,  but  often  visited  him 
in  Anandamangalam,  till  in  December  1726,  he  came  with  his 
old  father  and  three  children  to  beg  admittance  into  the  Church 
of  Christ.  His  wife  could  not  yet  determine  to  follow  him,  but 
he  hoped  that  she  would  do  so  ere  long.  To  escape  persecution, 
he  took  refuge  in  a  neighbouring  village  in  the  Company's 
territories;  the  Brahmins  meanwhile  threatened  his  wife  and 
represented  to  her  that  he  had  sold  their  children  as  slaves  to 
the  European  priests,  so  that  the  woman  became  anxious  and 
unhappy  and  would  not  follow  her  husband.  He,  however 
remained  firm;  he  learned  the  short  Catechism,  and  in  January 
1727  he  visited  the  Missionaries  with  his  father,  and  gave 
up  all  his  heathen  relics,  though  he  evidently  did  it  with  fear. 


—     137     — 

The  Missionaries  made  him  a  proposal  which  sounds  a  little  ex- 
traordinary considering  that  he  was  still  unbaptized  and  his 
wife  quite  a  heathen;  viz.  that  his  youngest  child  which  was 
but  a  few  months  old,  should  be  baptized.     After  some  scruples 
he  agreed,  and  desired  that  the  ceremony  should  take  place  at 
his  own  house  that  the  Hindus  might  see  what  was  said  and  done 
on  the  occasion.    For  the  people  believed  that  beef  (the  greatest 
abomination  to  them)  was  put  into  the  mouth  of  a  baptized  per- 
son, that  brandy  was  given  him  to  drink  and  that  the  water  used 
at  Baptism  was  brought  from  Europe.  In  order  to  disabuse  them  of 
this  error  the  water  was  drawn  from  the  potter's  own  spring;  — 
the  child  was  baptized  in  a  Pandel  which  was  erected  in  the  gar- 
den and  received  the  name  of  Eva.  Besides  the  Christian  sponsors, 
the  father  of  the  child  was  present,  and  answered  all  the  questions 
particularly  that  of  renouncing  the  devil;  many  Hindus  were 
there,  the  mother  was  absent  as  she  disapproved  of  the  whole 
affair  and  the  grandfather  was  persuaded  to  remain  away  by  his 
youngest  son.     Poor  Wedappen  had  a  most  painful  night  after 
this  important  day,  tormented  by  cruel  dreams:  he  hastened  to 
the  Missionaries  who  tried  to  console  him  and  he  strove  more 
and  more  earnestly  to  free  himself  from  the  bonds  of  idolatry. 
His  wife  left  him  and  returned  to  Anandamangalam  with  their 
youngest  child;  his  old  father  was  nowhere  to  be  found  but  was 
hidden  somewhere  in  the  interior  of  the  country.    Meanwhile  he 
studied  diligently,  comprehended  christian  truth  thoroughly  and 
begged  for  baptism.       A  few  days  later  his  wife  sent  to  him  to 
say  that  if  he  would  come  and  fetch  her  she  would  return  with  him; 
to  which  he  answered  that  as  he  had  not  asked  her  to  go  away, 
he  should  not  fetch  her,  yet  he  wished  her  to  return.   She  came, 
gave  up  her  heathen  relics,  and  began  a  course  of  christian  in- 
struction.     On  the  2nd  of  February,  Wedappen  was  baptized, 

12 


—     138     — 

returned  to  his  home  and  his  work  and  employed  his  spare 
time  in  teaching  his  wife  the  Catechism.  He  remained  steadfast 
in  the  faith,  would  not  listen  to  his  countrymen  when  they  of- 
fered him  money  to  induce  him  to  practise  his  old  arts,  was  zea- 
lous in  leading  others  to  Christ,  had  the  joy  of  seeing  his  father 
and  even  his  brother,  who  had  been  so  opposed  to  it,  open  their 
hearts  to  the  truth,  died  happily  on  the  21st  of  October  1729, 
and  was  buried  in  the  Mission-yard  at  Poreiar. 

It  had  long  been  Schultze's  wish  to  undertake  a  Mission- 
ary-journey amongst  the  heathen.  For  more  than  six  years  he 
had  been  obliged  to  confine  his  zeal  to  Tranquebar  and  its  imme- 
diate neighbourhood;  he  had  only  been  able  to  do  anything  at  a 
distance  by  means  of  books  which  were  printed  at  the  Tranque- 
bar press,  "but"  says  he,  uviva  voce  preaching,  the  testimony  of 
a  living  man,  has  a  great  advantage  over  the  private  reading  of 
books  everywhere,  but  more  particularly  amongst  these  hea- 
then of  the  East  Indies.  Amongst  thousands  there  may  be  per- 
haps one  that  can  read,  and  many  of  those  who  can  read  are  so 
stupid  and  indifferent  that  they  will  not  take  the  trouble  of  un- 
derstanding and  applying  to  themselves  what  they  read;  which 
proves  satisfactorily,  that  when  Grod  gives  an  opportunity,  it  is 
of  the  greatest  importance  for  a  Missionary  to  go  out  himself 
amongst  the  heathen,  and  make  known  the  gospel  to  them  bv 
word  of  mouth.  The  first  Missionaries,  Ziegenbalor  and  G-nind- 
ler,  have  left  us  a  good  example  in  this.  It  is  true  that  the  pro- 
verb says  " vox  scripta  manct"  and  that  what  has  been  written 
can  be  read  again  and  often  repeated;  but  this  is  only  to  be  un- 
derstood of  things  which  have  already  been  put  before  us  in  a 
lively  way  by  speech,  and  which  we  like  to  reconsider,  in  order 
to  bring  back  the  pleasure  which  we  felt  on  first  hearing  them. 
The  living  voice  always  has  something  particularly  enlivening 


—     139     — 

and  awakening,  but  more  especially  in  those  words  which  have 
proceeded  from  the  holy  mouth  of  God,  and  which  have  still 
the  same  power  as  when  he  first  pronounced  them.  When  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  after  him  his  disciples,  began  to  seek 
and  to  save  that  which  was  lost,  they  spoke  to  the  people,  for 
the  Eternal  Wisdom,  Jesus  Christ,  knew  well  which  is  the  near- 
est way  to  the  hearts  of  men.  I  would  therefore  dwell  upon 
this — not  that  I  consider  the  distribution  of  books  as  unimpor- 
tant and  unnecessary,  for  I  have  distributed  books  myself  and  con- 
tinue so  to  do — but  I  consider  that  the  viva  voce  publication  of 
the  Gospel  is  to  be  magnified  above  all  other  means.  I  there- 
fore hold,  that,  when  it  is  possible,  it  is  one's  duty  to  go  forth 
oneself,  to  preach  the  gospel  by  word  of  mouth.  If  from  dis- 
tance, or  any  other  cause,  one  cannot  reach  a  place,  it  is  all 
well  enough  to  send  books  to  those  who  wish  for  them.  But  as 
necessary  and  useful  the  verbal  preaching  of  the  gospel  is,  so 
difficult  is  it  also."  Meanwhile  Schultze  was  obliged  to  remain 
where  he  was;  for  it  was  only  he  who  could  keep  the  native  con- 
gregation together,  and  the  completion  of  Ziegenbalg's  transla- 
tion of  the  Bible  thoroughly  occupied  all  his  time.  When  he 
had  nearly  Xnished  it,  three  new  Missionaries,  Bosse,  Prcssier, 
and  Wcdther  arrived  in  Tranquebar  on  the  19th  of  June  1725, 
and  he  became  then  very  busy  in  helping  them  to  learn  the  lan- 
guages; but  when  they  had  made  a  little  progress  he  was  very 
happy  to  leave  them,  more  especially  as  there  was  not  perfect 
unanimity  between  him  and  his  colleagues. 

On  Sexagesima  Sunday,  1728  Schultze  bade  adieu  to  the 
native  congregation.  The  words  of  the  gospel  "A  sower  went 
forth  to  sow"  sank  deep  into  his  mind,  and  for  many  years  af- 
ter they  always  reminded  him  of  the  day  on  which  he  had  taken 
thein  for  his  text  in  Tranquebar.     The  next  day  he  went  as  far 

12* 


—     140     — 

as  Cuddalore  in  a  small  vessel  in  order  to  escape  the  shameless 
custom-house  officers,  who  forced  money  from  all  travellers 
journeying  through  the  Tanjore  territories;  but  from  Cuddalore 
he  continued  his  journey  on  foot.  He  travelled  along  the  coast, 
but  often  turned  aside  to  preach  Christ  in  the  dominions  of  the 
great  Mogul.  A  few  years  before,  the  officials  of  the  Mogul  had 
been  just  as  bad  as  those  of  the  King  of  Tanjore,  always  taking 
more  than  their  due,  and  even  stripping  poor  travellers  of  their 
clothes  to  satisfy  their  extortion; — a  rich  Hindu  in  Madras  was 
moved  to  pity,  he  went  to  the  Mogul  and  offered  him  a  large 
sum  of  money  if  he  would  altogether  remit  the  tax  on  travel- 
lers;— the  offer  was  accepted  and  two  years  before  Schultze's 
journey  the  sea-coast  as  far  as  Madras  was  declared  to  be  en- 
tirely free.  The  work  of  love  of  the  compassionate  heathen  was 
now  rewarded,  for  the  messenger  of  the  gospel  was  thus  able  to 
give  his  message  without  obstacles.  At  Madras  he  received  a 
very  friendly  reception  from  an  English  clergyman,  Mr.  Leake, 
but  he  went  on  from  there  to  Pulicat  and  further  into  the  coun- 
try. This  journey  was  extremely  difficult  and  dangerous;  he 
was  obliged  at  last  to  go  barefoot,  and  sprained  one  foot  in  jum- 
ping over  a  ditch.  He  returned  to  Madras  in  the  month  of 
July,  after  preaching  the  gospel  in  one  hundred  places,  and 
having  recalled  the  Danish  Mission  to  the  recollection  of  many 
who  had  known  it  in  ZiesrenbaVs  time:  here  he  was  taken  se- 
riously  ill,  but  recovered  in  14  days,  and  determined  to  fix  his 
residence  in  Madras,  having  obtained  the  consent  of  the  other 
Missionaries  during  a  hasty  journey  to  Tranquebar. 

The  English  Society  now  took  Schultze  into  its  service, 
and  determined  to  found  a  Mission  in  Madras;  but  until  the 
consent  of  the  Society  was  received,  he  had  to  pass  some  time 
inactive.  He  asked  the  Governor  to  allow  him  to  renew  a  school 


—     141     — 

for  heathen  children  which  had  formerly  existed  in  the  town 
but  which  had  fallen  into  decay.  He  not  only  received  permis- 
sion but  help,  whereon  he  hired  a  house  amongst  the  natives  in 
Black  Town,  and  made  known  by  a  placard  on  his  door  that  he 
would  teach  any  children  who  were  brought  to  him.  The  school 
began  with  twelve  children,  but  soon  increased.  He  moreover 
received  visits  from  so  many  adults  that  he  had  not  time  to  speak 
with  each  separately,  but  was  obliged  to  fix  an  hour  daily  for 
making  known  the  word  of  God  to  all  who  wished  to  listen. 
Between  9  and  10  o'clock  every  day  he  placed  himself  at  his 
house-door,  where  all  passers  by  might  see  and  hear  him  and  spoke 
to  them  of  the  things  pertaining  to  the  kingdom  of  God.  He 
soon  perceived  that  in  Madras  it  would  be  necessary  for  him 
to  learn  Telugu; — this  language,  which  is  also  called  Gentoo, 
is  connected  with  Tamil,  but  is  yet  so  different  from  it  that  a 
knowledge  of  one  does  not  enable  a  man  to  understand  the  other. 
Schultze  compares  them  to  German  and  Danish,  and  says  that 
Telugu  is  not  difficult  to  any  one  who  is  at  home  in  Tamil. 
With  the  help  of  a  Telugu  Brahmin  he  soon  made  such  progress 
in  the  language,  that  he  began  to  translate  the  short  Catechism, 
and  between  the  years  1727  and  1732,  he  had  translated  first 
the  New  Testament  and  then  the  whole  Bible.  He  afterwards 
translated  Arnd's  "True  Christianity"  and  his  "  Garden  of 
Paradise"  and  wrote  a  Telugu  Grammar.  His  great  opponents 
were  the  Roman  Catholics,  who  had  a  numerous  native  congre- 
gation, and  were  much  displeased  at  his  settling  in  Madras. 
They  tried  to  spread  suspicions  about  his  school,  assuring  the 
natives  that  all  children  who  were  sent  there,  would  be  baptiz- 
ed, which  so  frightened  them,  that  the  school  was  empty  for 
three  days  :  —  they  next  reported  that  he  had  run  away  from 
Tranquebar  with  the  money  belonging  to  the  Mission,  and  then, 


—     142     — 

that  from  want  of  funds  he  would  soon  be  obliged  to  go  some- 
where else.  Even  the  English  became  impatient  when  he  had 
been  in  Madras  for  two  years  without  making  a  single  convert, 
and  began  to  ask  whether  it  was  of  any  use  to  maintain  him 
there  any  longer:  Schultze  begged  them  to  be  patient,  to  con- 
sider that  what  he  had  hitherto  done  was  but  a  preparation, 
that  he  was  waiting  for  news  from  the  Mission  College  and  from 
the  Society  in  England  to  know  whether  they  approved  of  his 
settling  in  Madras.  When  he  received  permission  in  1728,  he 
made  such  rapid  progress  that  from  1728 — 30  he  had  collected 
a  congregation  of  above  200  persons.  In  1730  he  received  a 
fellow-labourer  in  Joliann  Anton  Sartorins,  and  two  years  later 
in  Johann  Ernst  Geister,  which  would  have  led  us  to  expect 
great  results,  but  none  followed.  Schultze  could  not  agree  any 
better  with  his  colleagues  in  one  place  than  in  another.  One 
knows  how  great  a  temptation  zealous  and  active  men  have  to 
become  arbitrary,  self-satisfied  and  wilful;  he  had  his  full  share 
of  these  temptations,  and  it  seems  but  too  clear  that  he  some- 
times forgot  christian  moderation,  and  allowed  himself  to  be 
carried  away  by  his  lively  temperament ;  in  fact  he  was  rather 
spirited  and  diligent  than  substantial ;  but  in  mind  he  was  far 
above  his  colleagues,  who  could  not  enter  into  his  peculiarities 
and  were  so  discontented  with  him  that  there  was  nothing  to 
do  but  to  part.  Tin's  was  what  happened  in  Tranquebar  and 
then  again  in  Madras,  and  it  is  curious  to  see  how  much  Schultze 
was  enlivened  and  relieved  when  Sartorius  and  Geister  left  him 
in  1737  to  found  a  new  Mission  at  Cuddalore.  In  1736  when 
they  were  all  together,  the  congregation  only  increased  13  per- 
sons in  the  course  of  the  year,  but  from  the  middle  to  the  end 
of  1737  Schultze  alone  baptized  117,  and  in  the  following  year 
63  adults  and  one  child.      And  as  if  he  had  not  enough  to  do 


—     143     — 

with  the  charge  of  so  large  a  flock  to  whom  he  already  preach- 
ed in  two  languages,  he  set  earnestly  to  work  in  1739  on  the 
third  Indian  language,  the  Hindustani,  commonly  called  Moor- 
ish, because  it  is  used  by  the  Mohammedans.    Schultzo  at  first 
thought  that  it  was  an  Arabic  or  Persian  dialect,  but  he  found 
out  that  he  was  mistaken  and  that  it  belonged  to  the  same  stock 
as  the  Tamil  and  Telugu  (!?).    Though  the  Mohammedans  of  the 
interior  use  this  language,  they  write  it  in  Persian  characters. 
He  was  induced  to  learn  it  by  receiving  visits  from  many  peo- 
ple who  wished  for  Christian  instruction  and  to  whom  he  could 
not  give  it,  from  being  unacquainted  with  their  mother-tongue. 
He  applied  himself  with  his  usual  zeal  and  soon  began  transla- 
ting the  Bible:  before  he  left  India  he  had  finished  the  New 
Testament,  the  Psalms,  the  Prophecy  of  Daniel  and  some  chap- 
ters of  Genesis;  —  moreover  he  wrote  a  Hindustani  Grammar 
and  a  refutation  of  the  Koran,  which  together  with  a  specimen 
of  his  translation  of  the  Bible  were  printed  at  Halle,  under  his 
superintendence,  when  he  returned  to  Europe. 

Sartorius  and  Geister  went  in  1737  to  Cuddalore  as  has  been 
mentioned  above,  where  the  English  Society  wished  to  found 
a  new  Mission.  Ziegenbalg  had  preached  in  that  neighbourhood 
in  1710,  in  1717  Griindler  had  begun  a  Tamil  and  Portuguese 
school  there,  which  Ziegenbalg  visited  in  1718,  preached  in  the 
neighbouring  villages,  and  appointed  Johann  Beck  from  Wiir- 
temberg  as  superintendent  of  the  school,  but  it  did  not  succeed. 
Beck  died  in  1734  and  the  English  Society  then  determined  to 
send  Sartorius  and  Geister  to  found  a  regular  Mission  there. 
They  were  received  in  a  very  friendly  way  by  the  English 
there,  and  began  their  work,  but  Sartorius  died  in  1738.  Geis- 
ter was  now  left  alone  for  some  years,  when  he  received  a  Swe- 


—     144     — 

dish  colleague  in  Johann  Zacharias  Kiernander.  The  sequel  of 
the  Cuddalore  Mission  will  be  given  at  a  future  time. 

Schultze's  health  was  now  very  much  broken,  and  in  1743  he 
obtained  permission  to  return  to  Europe  after  remaining  in 
India  for  twenty  four  years,  and  left  the  Madras  Mission  in  the 
charge  of  Missionary  Johann  Philipp  Fabricius: — the  Christians 
baptized  by  him  in  Madras,  besides  converted  Roman  Catholics 
and  christian  children,  amounted  to  700.  He  went  first  to 
Copenhagen  and  thence  to  Halle,  where  he  continued  his  lin- 
guistic studies  with  unabated  energy  though  with  failing  health: — 
there  Schwarz,  who  afterwards  became  so  famous  as  a  Mission- 
ary, and  who  like  him  came  from  Sonnenburg  in  the  province 
of  Neumark,  received  from  him  his  first  lessons  in  Tamil.  He 
had  his  Tamil  translations  of  Arnd's  works  printed  during  his 
stay  in  Halle;  and  also  had  some  Telugu  type  cast,  with  which 
he  printed  his  translations  of  the  large  and  the  small  Catechisms 
and  of  other  small  works.  He  died  at  Halle  in  November  1760, 
aged  72. 

We  will  now  turn  to  those  men  in  Tranquebar  who  were 
working  contemporaneously  with  Schultze.  Their  activity 
amongst  the  ^natives  will  be  best  understood  by  what  is  said 
in  the  next  chapter  of  the  Priest  Aaron  and  the  Catechist 
Bayanaiken.  We  will  first  mention  a  native  of  Schleswig  Nico- 
laus  Dal ,  who  came  to  India  with  Schultze  in  1719.  He  was 
an  upright,  unselfish,  hard-working  and  methodical  man,  but 
somewhat  slow,  hot-tempered  and  strange.  He  was  not  ordain- 
ed when  he  arrived  in  Tranquebar,  and  though  at  first  he  ap- 
plied himself  both  to  Tamil  and  Portuguese,  he  soon  confined 
himself  almost  exclusively  to  the  latter  language  in  which  he 
became  a  great  proficient.  He  considered  the  revision  of  the 
Portuguese  translation  of  the  Bible  and  of  the  Psalms  as  his 


145 


great  work,  and  though  he  was  ordained  in  1730  he  says 
"  I  undertook  baptisms  and  marriages  for  Herr  Bosse  and 
was  therefore  obliged  to  neglect  the  work  on  the  Bible  and 
Psalms,  which  sometimes  makes  me  think  whether  I  have  done 
right  in  being  ordained."  The  misunderstanding  between  him 
and  Schultze  of  which  he  says  that  it  had  brought  him  into  bad 
odour  in  Copenhagen,  London  and  Halle,  did  not  bring  on 
daily  bickerings  between  them.  "  I  cannot,"  says  he,  "live  in 
anger  and  bitterness  with  any  one,  so  that  it  is  quite  wrong  to 
suppose  that  Schultze  and  I  Jived  in  disunion  with  each  other. 
By  a  note  in  1722  and  verbally  in  1723  I  told  him  the  truth. 
This  is  the  whole  of  our  quarrel.  Another  thing  is,  to  report 
his  blunders  by  letters  to  Europe,  and  perhaps  sometimes  in 
words  that  sound  harsh;  this  I  did,  but  I  very  much  doubt  whe- 
ther Sartorius  and  Geister  made  use  of  milder  expressions. " 
If  Dal  was  too  impatient  with  Schultze's  weaknesses,  and  did 
not  sufficiently  recognise  his  zeal  and  ability,  he  was  severely 
punished  when  the  drunkard  Bosse  came  in  Schultze's  place, 
for  he  was  his  special  colleague  amongst  the  Portuguese,  and 
plagued  him  till  the  day  of  his  death. 

Dal  was  a  Dane  by  birth,  and  knew  no  other  but  the  Da- 
nish language  until  he  was  13,  and  though  he  afterwards  studi- 
ed in  Germany,  he  never  forgot  his  fatherland  and  its  language. 
I  have  been  surprised  to  see  that,  though  like  the  rest  he  wrote 
his  letters  in  German,  he  was  able  to  express  himself  in  Danish 
so  well  in  1741,  that  it  proves  that  a  22  years  residence  a- 
mongst  German  Missionaries  in  the  East  Indies  had  in  no  way 
injured  his  fluency  in  it.  He  was  then  writing  for  the  press, 
wishing  that  what  he  said  should  be  attached  to  certain  copies 
of  Pontoppidan's  Explanation  of  the  catechism  which  he  intend- 
ed sending  to  every  parish  in  " Haderslevhuus  Amt."     "My 


—     146     — 

reason,"  says  he,  "is,  that  though  by  God's  will,  my  own  dwell- 
ing is  in  a  strange  and  distant  land,  I  cannot  forget  my  own 
dear  country  and  my  beloved  countrymen,  together  with  my 
relations  and  connections  who  are  more  than  a  hundred  in 
number.  I  send  you  this  beautiful  Explanation  of  the  Catechism 
composed  by  Herr  Erik  Pontoppidan,  Court -preacher  to  his 
Majesty  and  Theological  Professor  and  Assessor  at  the  most 
excellent  Mission  College.  Two  causes  have  moved  me  to, the 
choice  of  this  book:  —  the  first  is  its  very  edifying  nature;  the 
second  is  that  at  the  end  there  is  a  notice  of  many  good  books 
which  those  who  have  the  means  and  the  desire  can  buy,  and 
I  wish  that  every  Danish  christian  were  provided  with  a  New 
Testament  and  with  Jersin's  "Road  of  Life."  "  I  can  easily 
understand,  my  dear  countrymen,  that  as  God  has  given  you  a 
King  who  is  always  thinking  of  advancing  the  spiritual  and 
temporal  welfare  of  his  people,  it  were  heartily  to  be  wished 
that,  according  to  the  first  question  in  this  Catechism,  you 
should  be  happy  on  earth  and  finally  blessed  in  heaven.  Think 
only  how  delightful  it  would  be,  if,  as  Moses  says,  you  were 
blessed  in  your  going  out  and  in  your  coming  in,  that  the 
blessing  of  the  Lord  might  rest  on  all  that  you  have,  in  the 
house  and  in  the  field,  that  you  might  become  a  chosen  people 
to  the  Lord  (1  Pet.  II.  10),  blessed  of  the  Lord  which  made 
heaven  and  earth  (Ps.  CXV.  15),  and  children  of  the  living  God.' 
(Rom.  IX.  26.)  The  letter  is  signed  "Tranquebar  in  the  East 
Indies,  in  the  22nd  year  of  my  residence  in  foreign  parts,  16th 
September  1741.  Your  true  friend  and  country-man  from  Ans- 
let,  in  the  parish  Aller,  Nicolaus  Dal,  Missionary  and  Servant 
of  the  word  of  God  in  the  Portuguese  congregation."  Dal  par- 
ticularly sought  to  put  such  books  as  were  directed  against 
drunkenness,  cursing  and  swearing,  into  the  hands  of  his  country* 


—     147     — 

men,  and  exerted  himself  both  to  distribute  such  books  in  his 
native  place  and  to  support  his  poor  relations.  Yet  even  in  his 
benevolence  his  eccentricity  appears;  in  writing  to  Jens  Jacob- 
sen,  who  was  his  Almoner  to  his  family,  he  says  "The  unkind 
conduct  of  my  family  is  becoming  unbearable,  and  I  do  not  feel 
myself  in  any  way  obliged  to  contract  debts  on  their  account, 
which  would  certainly  remain  unpaid  were  I  to  die  this  year:" — 
he  then  proceeds  to  give  a  list  of  those  relations  amongst  whom 
142  Rix-dollars  were  to  be  distributed,  particularizing  some  of 
them  thus: — "To  old  Jens  Dal,  though  he  has  not  deserved  it, 
10  Rix-dollars;  to  Karen,  who  has  deserved  it  still  less,  10  Rix- 
dollars;  to  Catharine,  wife  of  Michael  Jensen,  who  has  deserved 
it  least  of  all,  42  Rix-dollars;  and  10  Rix-dollars  to  that  wick- 
ed Hans  Nielsen  Dal  in  Anslet,  who  does  not  think  50  Rix- 
dollars  worth  a  word."  Out  of  his  poverty  he  also  helped  to 
support  the  Mission.  A  certain  Madame  van  Cloon  in  Batavia 
sent  him  a  present  of  money  for  his  support  from  time  to  time, 
which  he  deposited  in  the  Mission,  and  as  he  did  not  think  it 
proper  to  keep  the  money  for  himself,  he  presented  to  the  Mis- 
sion 500  dollars  at  once.  He  died  in  1747,  and  was  much  be- 
loved by  the  younger  Missionaries. 

Three  young  men,  Bosse,  Pressier  and  Walther,  joined 
the  Mission  six  years  after  Schultze  and  Dal.  Bosse  became  a 
disgrace  to  the  cause,  for  he  gave  himself  up  to  drunkenness. 
At  first  his  colleagues  did  not  know  what  was  the  matter  with 
him,  thinking  only  that  he  was  a  very  sleepy  -  headed  man; 
indeed  to  make  some  use  of  him  they  gave  him  the  charge  of 
the  money  and  accounts;  but  in  1737  their  eyes  were  opened, 
for  his  drunkenness  increased  to  such  a  fearful  pitch,  that  it 
could  not  remain  hidden  from  any  one,  and  became  a  scandal  both 
to  christians  and  pagans.    As  there  was  a  considerable  defi- 


—     148     — 

ciency  in  his  accounts  at  the  same  time,  the  other  Missionaries 
begged  that  he  might  be  recalled,  which  was  done;  but  Bosse 
refused  to  return  home  for  the  following  reasons:  —  1)  He 
had  not  asked  leave  to  go. — To  this  the  Missionaries  answered: 
that  was  of  little  importance,  as  the  College  had  recalled  him 
unconditionally;  2)  That  he  had  written  about  it  in  1730  to 
Conferenzrath  Schroder,  who  had  advised  him  not  to  return. 
Answer.  Because  he  thought  better  of  him  then.  3)  He  had 
now  become  ten  years  older,  and  had  married  a  person  who  un- 
der the  circumstances  (she  was  a  drunkard  like  himself)  nei- 
ther could  nor  would  follow  him  to  Europe.  Answer.  Neither 
age  nor  marriage  could  free  a  vicious  priest  from  being  depo- 
sed. 4)  His  sight  had  become  very  bad.  Answer.  If  it  had 
failed  in  the  service  of  the  Mission  it  would  have  been  a  very 
different  thing,  but  if  it  had  arisen,  as  Dal  represented,  from 
drunkenness  and  the  incessant  reading  of  story-books  at  night  it 
made  his  recall  so  much  the  more  necessary,  as  he  was  thereby 
unfit  for  service.  5)  That  the  best  members  of  the  Portuguese 
congregation  had  now  been  much  attached  to  him  for  15  or  16 
years.  Answer.  We  know  nothing  of  that.  If  any  one  who 
knew  not  his  conduct  wished  to  keep  him,  that  wish  could  not 
be  gratified;  but  if  knowing  his  conduct,  they  still  wish  to  re- 
tain him,  we  can  scarcely  express  what  we  think  of  so  depraved 
a  taste. 

Bosse's  defence  which  he  addressed  to  the  College  proves 
that  he  had  not  drunk  away  all  sense,  for  it  is  very  well  com- 
posed. "  The  letter  from  the  College,"  says  he,  "says  that  I  am 
accused  of  leading  a  disorderly  life;  but  as  no  particular  point 
is  mentioned  except  the  deficiency  in  my  cash  accounts,  I 
cannot  enter  into  particulars  in  my  answer,  more  especially  as 
I  willingly  acknowledge  myself  to  be  the  greatest  sinner  before 


—     149     — 

God: — with  regard  to  my  money  difficulties  I  must  remark 
that  I  do  not  think  my  colleagues  did  right  in  twice  making 
me  treasurer,  which  has  led  me  into  such  a  labyrinth  of  debt, 
that  for  3  years  more  than  half  my  income  has  been  swallow- 
ed up  by  it.      When  Herr  Schultze  went  to  Madras  in  1725, 
the  Mission -money  was  given  into  my  charge,  though  I  was 
the  worst  accountant  of  all.  When  Worm  and  Richtsteig  arri- 
ved in  1730,  I  begged  to  be  freed  from  my  charge,  which  was 
at  last  made  over  to  Worm,  and  I  made  up  what  was  then 
wanting,  from  my  private  property.  The  late  Worm  was  a  very 
good  accountant,  and  yet  at  his  death  in  1735  there  was  a 
considerable  deficiency  in  the  chest,  which  was  made  up  from 
what  he  and  his  wife  had  left  in  their  wills.  At  Worm's  death 
I  was  persuaded  or  rather  forced  by  my  colleagues  to  under- 
take the  office  of  treasurer  again,  though  I  excused  myself 
both  on  account  of  the  little  practice  I  had  had  in  accounts 
and  of  my  weak  eyesight,  and  represented  that  any  of  my  col- 
leagues, but  more  particularly  Herr  Dal,  would  be  able  to 
manage  it  much  better.  I  cannot  account  for  the  great  deficien- 
cy in  1738  except  by  supposing  that  there  was  some  mistake 
in  the  adding  up  at  the  bottom  of  it;  perhaps  too  much  has 
been  put  down  in  the  receipts  and  to  little  to  the  expenditure." 
He  moreover  promises  that  his  past  conduct  shall  not  be  repea- 
ted, but  that  he  will  lead  an  exemplary  life,  and  begs  the  Col- 
lege under  any  circumstances  to  leave  him  in  his  present  posi- 
tion, until  he  shall  be  able  to  find  some  other  situation  in  India. 
He  was  therefore  allowed  to  remain,  and  seemed  somewhat  to 
improve,  but  this  did  not  last  long.      "The  change,'    writes 
Missionary  Kohlhoff,  "which  I  announced  in  Herr  Bosse  two 
years  ago,  was  unfortunately  only  superficial  and  since  then 
he  has  not  lived  as  he  ought.    In  a  short  time  he  gave  himself  up 


—     150    — 

to  the  old  vice  without  intermission  for  several  days;  public  and 
private  reminders  and  warnings  have  not  been  spared.  Only  two 
days  ago,  three  of  us  represented  to  him  that  he  was  running 
headlong  to  ruin,  told  him  that  we  had  sent  home  a  good  report 
two  years  ago,  and  asked  what  we  could  now  write  ?  As  usual 
he  promised  to  improve  by  degrees,  and  intimated  that  he  did 
not  now  commit  such  excesses  as  formerly.  We  answered  that 
such  a  way  of  talking  was  of  no  avail,  that  he  must  not  trifle 
with  the  sin,  but  that  he  must  at  once  in  the  strength  of  Jesus 
Christ  tear  himself  away  from  it,  give  himself  up  to  earnest 
prayer  and  efforts,  and  take  no  rest  until  he  had  mastered  his 
vice.  He  made  many  promises,  but  from  our  former  experience 
we  cannot  trust  to  them."  In  the  year  1747  they  say  "No 
prayers,  no  warnings,  no  threatenings  are  of  any  avail;  we  have 
been  wrong  in  not  acting  with  more  severity,  and  it  is  to  be 
expected  that  the  Mission  College  after  reading  the  reports  that 
we  have  sent  in  will  give  us  a  sharp  rebuke.  He  has  to  thank 
our  dear  old  Mr.  Dal  for  our  over-abundant  kindness,  for  we 
do  not  like  to  oppose  him.  May  the  Lord  put  an  end  to  this 
evil."  In  the  year  1749  Bosse  was  finally  discharged,  and  as 
he  had  no  fancy  for  remaining  in  Tranquebar  as  a  discharged 
Missionary,  he  left  his  wife  in  the  lurch  (?)  and  sailed  in  a  ship 
bound  for  Copenhagen,  where  he  was  received  into  the  Orphan- 
age, and  dragged  on  a  miserable  existence  for  some  years.  I 
have  seen  a  petition  addressed  by  him  to  the  College  in  which 
he  begs  for  24  Schillings  monthly  "as  pocket-money  for  Tabac- 
co,  church-alms,  clothes,  shoe -and  tooth-brushes,  blacking, 
matches  &c"  or  in  other  words — for  brandy. 

Thus  the  Mission  in  Tranquebar  had  suffered  much  from 
so  unworthy  a  member,  but  the  others  who  had  come  out  with 
him,  Pressier  and  Walther,  were  so  able  and  zealous,  that  they 


—     151     — 

made  up  for  his  deficiencies;  indeed  they  are  to  be  thanked  for 
all  that  was  done  from  1725  to  1740,  for  though  Worm  and 
Richtstcig,  who  came  out  in  1730  promised  well  and  set  to  work 
earnestly,  they  both  died  in  May  1735.  A  longer  season  of  labour 
was  granted  to  Obuch,  Wiedebrock  and  Kohlhoff1  who  arrived 
in  1737  and  all  died  in  Tranquebar,  the  two  latter  after  many 
years  of  work.  These,  as  well  as  Zeglin,  who  came  out  with 
Fabrlcius  in  1740,  belong  to  the  list  of  faithful  labourers,  who, 
without  possessing  any  distinguished  intellectual  gifts,  carry 
on  their  work  quietly  and  diligently.  They  continued  what  had 
been  begun,  but  none  of  them  were  equal  to  a  self-sustaining  and 
individual  activity.  Pressier  and  Walther  belong  to  a  superior 
class;  the  journey  of  the  first  into  Tanjore  will  be  described  on 
a  future  occasion;  he  died  in  1738,  about  which  timo  Walther 
obtained  permission  to  return  home.  I  have  seen  a  letter  to  him 
from  Francke  the  younger  in  Halle,  in  which  he  strongly  re- 
commends him  to  remain  in  India,  as  the  cause  was  likely  to  suf- 
fer by  his  absence.  "  The  most  important  reason,"  says  he, 
"  which  you  have  adduced  for  your  return,  is  that  your  health 
will  be  in  danger  if  you  remain  longer  in  India :  but  health  and 
sickness,  life  and  death  are  in  God's  hand,  and  in  such  a  case 
one  ought  rather  to  trust  to  God's  providence  than  to  any  other 
circumstances  whatsoever.  Moreover  one  does  not  know  what 
may  happen  in  another  place.  I  have  ere  this  seen  two  such 
cases.  One  wa3  the  case  of  a  pastor  in  my  district  (Francke 
was  the  Inspector  and  had  the  spiritual  charge  of  the  Pastors 
in  the  Saalkreis)  who  thought  it  very  hard  to  have  to  attend  to  a 
chapel  besides  his  parish-church,  sought  for  a  change,  and  was  fi- 
nally appointed  to  one  church.  But  as  he  was  leaving  his  new  re- 
sidence to  go  for  the  first  time  to  visit  a  sick  man,  a  dog  ran  out  and 
bit  him  in  the  leg  so  severely,  that  he  is  lame  to  this  day."  We 


—     152     — 

pass  over  Francke's  other  example.  However  ridiculous  his  moral 
to  Walther  may  appear,  yet  events  actually  turned  out  with  him 
as  they  had  done  with  the  man  who  wished  for  one  church  in- 
stead of  two.  He  went  home,  arrived  in  Copenhagen  in  May 
1740,  and  was  appointed  German  preacher  at  Christianshavn ; 
but  there  the  dog  rushed  out  and  bit  him,  and  that  dog  was 
death:  he  died  at  Dresden  before  he  had  been  at  home  one  year. 
When  Francke  heard  of  his  death,  he  said  "  I  heartily  wish  that 
God  had  given  him  a  longer  life,  but  before  he  returned  from 
India,  I  told  him  that  I  feared  he  would  not  live  long  in 
Europe." 


CHAPTER  X. 

NATIVE  TEACHERS;  THE  APOSTATE  FREDERICK  CHRISTIAN;  AARON 
THE  FIRST  NATIVE  ORDAINED  TO  THE  PRIESTHOOD. 

Having  thus  taken  a  glance  at  the  Missionaries  who  arriv- 
ed from  Europe  in  the  interval  between  Ziegenbalg  and  Griind- 
ler's  death  and  the  year  1740,  let  us  now  turn  our  attention  to 
the  teachers  who  were  forming  amongst  the  natives  themselves. 
In  Ziegenbalg' s  time  they  had  native  catechists,  but  none  of 
them  were  ordained  as  priests; — the  early  times  of  the  Mission 
were  full  of  difficulties,  and  Ziegenbalg  did  not  think  any  of  his 
converts  so  distinguished  for  their  zeal  and  ability  as  to  make 
him  desire  their  ordination.  I  know  of  only  one  who  was  rais- 
ed above  the  rest  by  his  quickness  and  talents,  and  he,  in  time 
of  temptation,  fell  away. 

His  heathen  name  was  Kanabadi  Wathiar.  He  was  the 
son  of  the  school-master  from  whom  Ziegenbalg  learned  Tamil, 
but  he  far  surpassed  his  father  in  knowledge,  had  kept  a  school 
from  his  youth  and  distinguished  himself  as  a  poet.  He  was 
very  highly  thought  of  in  Tranquebar,  where  he  had  a  large 
school  for  Mohammedan  and  Hindu  children.  In  1706  he  com- 
posed some  Tamil  verses  in  honour  of  the  Danish  Royal  Family, 
which  were  translated  into  German  and  sent  to  Denmark.  In 
1709,  wishing  for  instruction,  he  entered  the  service  of  the 
Mission,  but  the  Missionaries  entertained  very  small  hopes  of 
his  conversion.  Meanwhile  he  translated  the  five  principal 
parts  of  the  Catechism  into  Tamil  verse,  and  taught  the  school- 


—     154     — 

children  to  sing  it.  They  now  began  to  see  that  some  change 
was  working  in  his  soul;  yet  he  did  not  say  anything,  but  se- 
cretly learned  the  Catechism  by  heart,  and  continued  to  write 
hymns  and  songs  for  the  use  of  the  school.  At  last  he  avowed 
his  wish  of  becoming  a  christian,  begged  for  thorough  instruc- 
tion and  that  he  might  be  soon  baptized  as  his  parents  and  friends 
with  the  most  respectable  heathens  would  be  sure  to  oppose  it 
with  all  their  power.  This  soon  proved  true;  for  when  he  spoke 
openly  of  his  intentions,  his  parents  came,  fell  at  his  feet,  wept 
and  howled  out  their  prayer  that  he  would  not  thus  disgrace 
them,  for  he  was  their  only  son  to  whom  they  looked  for  the 
continuation  of  their  race.  His  father  wrote  one  letter  after 
another  with  his  various  motives  for  persuasion,  but  they  were  of 
no  avail ;  the  young  man  promised  to  assist  his  parents  in  all 
temporal  affairs  if  they  would  not  hinder  him  from  becoming 
a  Christian.  They  now  tried  another  line  of  conduct,  wished  to 
take  poison,  and  persuaded  the  most  eminent  Hindus  to  oppose 
his  wishes.  These  surrounded  him  whenever  he  went  into  the 
street,  and  used  both  promises  and  menaces,  indeed  once  they 
shut  him  up  for  two  days  and  would  not  release  him  until  he 
took  an  oath  not  to  become  a  christian.  He  worded  his  oath 
that  he  would  follow  what  was  good  and  not  what  was  bad,  and 
when  he  came  out  he  declared  that  by  the  good  he  meant 
Christianity,  and  by  the  bad  heathenism.  His  father  went  with 
his  friends  to  the  Commandant,  to  whom  a  petition  was  also 
addressed  by  a  great  number  of  Hindus.  Meanwhile  the  Mis- 
sionaries begged  him  to  weigh  well  what  he  was  doing,  and 
represented  to  him  what  violent  persecution  he  must  expect ; 
they  also  told  him  of  the  sins  of  which  he  was  accused.  He 
answered  by  letter  that  he  could  not  by  any  possibility  remain 
any  longer  in  heathenism,  that  if  they  would  not  receive  him 


i; 


)j 


into  the  church  by  baptism^  he  should  wander  forth  as  a  pil- 
grim into  some  desert,  and  there  serve  the  only  true  God  as 
well  as  he  could :  —  it  was  but  too  true  that  he  had  committed 
the  sins  of  winch  he  was  accused,  with  countless  others;  and  it 
was  for  this  very  reason  that  he  wished  to  become  a  christian, 
that  he  might  receive  forgiveness  for  his  past  sins  and  strength 
to.  avoid  them  in  future: — he  held  up  the  example  of  the  Apos- 
tle Paul  who  would  not  give  up  his  heathen  converts  when 
others  opposed  their  entrance  into  the  churchy  and  reminded 
the  Missionaries  of  the  duties  which  their  calling  laid  on 
them  &c.  This  letter  touched  them  to  the  heart,  and  they  de- 
termined in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  to  baptize  him  on  the  first 
opportunity*  As  the  Hindus  declared  that  they  should  lay  vio- 
lent hands  on  him  as  he  was  led  to  baptism,  the  Missionaries 
avoided  any  outbreak  by  baptizing  him  in  their  own  house,  on 
the  16th  of  October  1709,  in  the  presence  of  sponsors.  He  re- 
ceived the  name  of  Frederick  Christian,  the  King  of  Denmark 
being  considered  as  his  god-father.  On  the  same  day  he  receiv- 
ed letters  from  the  country  promising  him  great  things  if  he 
would  give  up  his  intention,  but  threatening  him  severely 
should  be  persevere.  He  answered  them  with  much  discretion, 
and  petitioned  the  authorities  in  Tranquebar  for  protection. 
He  then  kept  himself  at  home  for  some  time,  occupying  him- 
self in  teaching  the  elder  Hindu  school-children,  "People  of 
rank,"  write  the  Missionaries,  "both  belonging  to  this  place  and 
others,  often  come  to  visit  him  at  our  house;  he  honours  them 
with  the  entertainment  of  reading  parts  of  the  Gospels  accord- 
ing to  St.  Matthew  and  St.  Mark,  on  which  he  afterwards  con- 
verses with  them.  Moreover  he  is  very  useful  in  the  school." 
"When  he  began  to  go  about  in  public  again,  great  outward  per- 
secutions and  inward  conflicts  arose.      He  received  no  proper 


—     156     — 

protection  from  the  authorities,  and  fell  into  temptations  which 
he  did  not  mention  to  the  Missionaries.  The  Roman  Catholic 
Vicar  Apostolic  next  attacked  him,  made  great  promises  to 
draw  him  over  to  his  church,  and  secretly  conveyed  him  to  a 
French  settlement.  At  this,  say  the  Missionaries,  the  enemies 
of  the  work  were  greatly  delighted,  but  it  caused  great  grief 
to  us  and  great  trouble  to  the  soul  of  the  man  himself.  The  re- 
joicings  of  the  enemies  is  shown  by  a  letter  from  Bovingh,  da- 
ted 22  September  1710.  "  Not  long  ago",  says  he,  "6  of  our  peo- 
ple became  Romanists,  amongst  whom  one  was  Christian  Fre- 
derick, his  Majesty's  god-son.  Last  year  no  doubt  great  things 
were  written  of  this  man  but  experience  has  shown  that  he  was 
a  godless  man  who  joined  the  christian  religion  from  worldly 
motives."  The  unfortunate  man,  however,  did  not  long  remain 
with  his  new  friends,  but  fell  back  by  degrees  into  heathenism. 
Dal  and  Pressier  met  him  at  Negapatam  in  the  year  1727,  and 
say,  "  Christian  Frederick  came  to  us  on  the  12th  February,  a 
lost  sheep  from  our  Tranquebar  flock.  He  detailed  his  circum- 
stances at  great  length,  and  that  he  had  now  fallen  into  such 
a  labyrinth  that  he  could  not  call  himself  either  a  christian  or 
a  heathen.  He  could  not  deny  that,  with  his  wife  and  children, 
he  took  part  in  the  heathen  ceremonies  but  he  excused  himself 
by  saying,  that  in  his  heart  he  still  felt  that  the  christian  re- 
ligion was  true,  and  that  when  after  the  Hindu  custom  he 
smeared  himself  with  ashes  of  cowdung,  he  did  not  think  of 
Siva,  but  meditated  on  his  being  nothing  but  dust  and  ash- 
es." Pressier  represented  to  him  that  if  he  held  Christianity  to 
be  the  truth  unto  salvation,  he  ought  not  to  settle  in  a  heathen 
place,  but  in  some  town  that  was  under  European  rule.  He 
answered  that  he  could  not  make  a  public  profession  of  his  be- 
lief, because  his  friends  would  persecute  him  and  his  wife  would 


—     157     — 

leave  him,  that  God  must  give  him  sufficient  grace  and  strength 
to  bear  it.  Pressier  spoke  an  earnest  word  of  warning  to  him, 
and  particularly  pitied  his  two  children  who  were  growing  up 
in  heathenism.  The  elder  had  been  christened  in  Madras  when 
the  father  belonged  to  the  Roman-Catholic  communion,  but  the 
younger  was  still  unbaptized.  There  was  something  which  at- 
tracted Frederick  Christian  to  Tranquebar,  but  there  was  still 
more  which  kept  him  back.  In  1730  he  came  to  visit  the  Mis- 
sionaries, who  exhorted  him  to  humble  himself  before  God  and 
try  to  make  up  for  his  past  faults;  of  his  own  accord  he  fell  on 
his  knees  and  begged  God  to  forgive  him;  but  it  was  only  a 
momentary  emotion.  The  last  that  we  hear  of  him  is,  that  Geis- 
ter  met  him  in  the  year  1740  as  an  idol-priest  at  a  temple  in 
the  neighbourhood  of  Cuddalore. 

So  this  man  was  lost  both  to  the  church  of  Christ  and  to 
the  ministry  amongst  the  Hindus,  and  as  we  have  said  there 
were  not  many  people  of  remarkable  ability  in  the  young  con- 
gregation. The  Missionaries  never  lost  sight  of  the  great  ob- 
ject of  forming  a  native  class  of  ministers  but  they  hoped  to 
see  them  arise  out  of  their  schools,  a  hope,  which  was  not  des- 
tined to  be  fulfilled :  it  is  true  that  they,  produced  catechists 
and  school-teachers, -but  in  the  early  times  not  one  priest.  We 
may  see  the  traces  amongst  the  Missionaries  of  a  certain  an- 
xiety to  ordain  natives,  they  were  warmly  encouraged  to  it  by 
their  friends.  In  the  year  1725  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury 
writes  to  Schultze,  "As  you  are  so  far  from  Europe,  and  there 
must  always  be  a  long  delay  and  many  difficulties  in  your  ob- 
taining colleagues  from  hence,  it  were  much  to  be  desired  that 
you  should  select  some  from  amongst  those  whom  you  have 
brought  to  an  evangelical  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  should  give 
deeper  and  more  complete  instruction,  in  order  to  their  teach- 


—     158     — 

ing  others  in  their  turn  and  in  their  mother-tongue,  not  only 
in  the  schools  but  throughout  the  country,  thus  preparing  the 
way  amongst  many  who  might  come  to  you  for  further  instruc- 
tion and  baptism.  Such  evangelists  did  much  for  the  spread 
of  the  Gospel  amongst  the  masses  on  its  first  publication. 
"Therefore  they  that  were  scattered  abroad  went  everywhere 
preaching  the  word."  They  have  easier  access  to  their  country- 
men, and  will  find  better  opportunities  for  uniting  them  to  their 
cause.  When  the  number  of  disciples  is  thus  increased,  you 
will  see  how  many  young  teachers  are  to  be  found  amongst 
these  proselytes,  who  will  be  suited  for  making  known  the  faith 
which  they  have  themselves  believed."  The  Mission  College 
also  encouraged  them  to  ordain  native  teachers  as  soon  as  they 
had  expressed  a  wish  on  the  subject;  and  this  wish  became  very 
warm  in  1727  when  congregations  began  to  form  in  the  interior 
of  the  country,  which  by  the  next  year  were  strong  and  flourish- 
ing. We  shall  have  more  to  say  about  these  congregations  when 
we  give  the  history  of  the  catechist  Rajanaiken;  it  suffices  here 
to  say  that  these  country  people  received  their  first  im- 
pressions from  their  christianized  countrymen:  they  then  came 
into  Tranquebar,  where  they  received  regular  instruction  and 
were  baptized.  After  this  they  used  to  come  into  the  town  for 
the  three  great  feasts,  and  were  sometimes  visited  at  their  own 
homes  by  catechists;  but  as  Europeans  were  forbidden  to  tra- 
vel into  the  interior,  the  Missionaries  could  not  visit  them  them- 
selves, and  they  were  the  greater  part  of  the  year  without  any 
teacher.  No  one  will  therefore  be  surprised  to  hear  that  the 
Missionaries  thus  wrote  to  the  Mission  -  College  in  1728: — 
fC  Our  great  desire  now  is  to  provide  the  congregations  which 
huve  risen  up  in  the  interior  with  the  proper  means  for  the  care 
of  their  souls.      It  is  not  easy  to  go  ourselves  into  the  countrv 


—     159     — 

to  help  these  people:  thus  they  are  obliged  to  come  to  us,  es- 
pecially when  they  wish  for  the  holy  sacraments;  but  there  are 
great  difficulties  in  the  way  of  this  and  in  some  cases  it  is  quite 
impossible.     The  best  solution  to  all  these  difficulties  would  be 
to  ordain  a  minister  for  these  people  from  amongst  themselves, 
if  one  could  be  found  with  suitable  qualities.  Therefore  we  wish 
to  ask  the  College  how  far  our  power  would  extend   in  such  a 
case?'1   The  College  answered  "The  good  hope  which  you  ex- 
press of  finding  natives  who  may  in  time  become  the  teachers 
and  shepherds  of  their  country  people,  has  rejoiced  us  much; 
for  we  together  with  our  best  friends  consider  that  with  God's 
assistance  this  is  the  most  certain  means  for  extending  and 
strengthening  the  congregations.  With  the  most  gracious  per- 
mission of  his  Majesty  we  therefore  give  you  power  to  ordain 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  any  person  of  Indian  origin  who  shall 
be  suitable  for  the  work  of  the  ministry,  and  to  confide  one  or 
more  districts  to  his  care."     The  College  further  warned  them 
to  exercise  great  prudence,  and  to  try  any  one  whom  they  in- 
tended to  ordain,  with  smaller  services  before  instructing  him 
with  the  care  of  souls.      Five  years  elapsed  before  the  permis- 
sion was  taken  advantage  of,  but  in  the  spring  of  1733,  the 
Missionaries  gained  sufficient  courage  to  carry  it  out,  and  de- 
termined on  ordaining  that  one  from  amongst  their  three  town- 
catechists,  whom  they  and  the  congregation  should  unite  in  choos- 
ing.     This  determination  was  made  known  to  the  catechists, 
who  gave  their  consent  in  writing.   The  eldest,  Schawrimuttu, 
answered,  "  As  the  things,  which  you  our  priests  through  the 
grace  of  Christ  the  chief  Shepherd  have  determined  on  for  the 
benefit  of  the  congregation,  is  very  necessary,  it  has  caused  me 
great  joy.   I  hope  that  the  person  selected  may  receive  the  call 
of  God  the  Father,  the  consent  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and 


—     160     — 

the  seal  oi  the  Holy  Ghost."  The  second  catechist,  Aaron,  wrote 
thus,  "  God  be  thanked,  who  has  put  this  idea  into  the  hearts 
of  the  priests  by  his  Holy  Spirit.  It  will  be  of  great  advantage 
and  is  really  necessary  for  the  country-people.  May  the  Lord 
bring  it  to  pass!'  "The  youngest  catechist,  Diogo,  answered, 
"May  our  chief  Shepherd  Jesus  Christ,  himself  select  the  one 
who  shall  please  him  for  carrying  out  this  holy  work;  may  he 
begin,  continue,  and  complete  the  work;  may  his  holy  name  be 
praised!"  The  affair  was  brought  before  the  congregation  at 
Easter,  as  then  many  christians  from  the  country  would  be 
present:  the  address  to  them  ran  thus: — 

6C  Beloved  in  the  Lord!  After  long  consideration  and  having 
received  counsel  from  our  superiors  in  Europe,  we  have  de- 
termined that  a  man  from  amongst  you,  and  indeed  from 
amongst  our  town  catechists,  should  be  chosen  by  the  consent 
of  ourselves  and  the  whole  congregation  to  be  ordained  a  Priest, 
that  he  may  with  us  undertake  the  care  of  souls  in  the  country- 
congregations;  for  the  congregations  both  here  and  in  the  coun- 
try have  grown  to  that  extent  that  we  can  no  longer  bear  the 
burden,  or  perform  all  things  as  it  should  be.  It  is  the  country- 
people  especially  who  are  in  want  of  a  true  shepherd,  who  with 
the  help  of  a  catechist,  shall  make  known  the  word  of  God  to 
them,  shall  administer  the  holy  sacraments,  shall  maintain 
christian  discipline  and  order  and  show  a  parental  care  towards 
the  rising  generation.  Hitherto  God  has  sent  priests  to  you  from 
Europe,  and  we  do  not  doubt  that  he  will  continue  to  do  so, 
as  long  as  the  circumstances  of  the  Mission  shall  require  it; 
but  you  must  not  look  upon  it  as  if  none  of  your  own  people 
were  fit  to  be  priests  and  shepherds.  The  principal  thing  which 
enables  a  servant  of  Christ  to  exercise  the  office  of  a  preacher, 
is  the  anointing  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  which  God  has  promised  to 


—     161     — 

pour  out  on  all  flesh  (Acts  II.  17.)  and  Peter  says  "God  is  no 
respector  of  persons,  but  in  every  nation  he  that  feareth  him 
and  worketh  righteousness,  is  accepted  with  him."  God  has 
shown  favour  to  all  other  nations,  by  awakening  shepherds  and 
teachers  from  amongst  themselves;  and  why  should  it  not  be 
possible  amongst  you  also?  You  may  then  confidently  pray  for 
this  gift  of  God  and  you  may  do  so  the  more  earnestly  as  it 
will  do  much  to  strengthen  christian  religion  in  this  country 
against  the  power  of  heathenism.  Let  us  then  in  future  lay  this 
matter  before  God  in  our  public  services  in  church,  and  as  it 
concerns  you  all,  though  more  especially  you  who  are  from  the 
interior,  let  your  prayers  for  it  arise  with  true  devotion  both  in 
church  and  at  home !  May  the  Lord  govern  our  undertaking, 
that  for  Christ's  sake  it  may  succeed  to  the  glorifying  of  his 
great  name,  to  the  spread  and  support  of  his  kingdom,  and  to 
the  true  benefit  of  you  all.  Amen." 

From  the  beginning  of  the  month  of  March,  the  three  ca- 
techists  were  instructed  in  pastoral  theology,  to  which  instruc- 
tion an  hour  of  prayer  was  united.  At  Whitsuntide  they  preach- 
ed their  trial  sermons  :  —  Schawrimuttu  had  begged  to  be  ex- 
cused from  the  post  of  candidate,  and  the  Missionaries  had  ac- 
cepted of  his  reasons.  Aaron  preached  on  Whitmonday  on 
Rom.  VIII.  14 — 16:  Diogoon  Whittuesday  on  1.  Cor.  III.  16, 
17.  The  day  after,  the  27th  of  May,  the  heads  of  families  were 
called  into  the  church,  and  after  hymns  and  prayer  each  one 
was  requested  to  go  into  the  vestry  to  give  his  vote;  it  so  hap- 
pened that  there  was  an  equal  number  of  votes  for  each,  and 
when  the  Missionaries  had  weighed  the  reasons  which  each  man 
gave  for  his  choice,  they  were  also  equally  divided,  three  for 
Aaron  and  three  for  Diogo.  There  was  certainly  much  here 
which  spoke  for  the  ordination  of  both,  but  to  this  the  Mission- 


—     162     — 

aries  could  not  make  up  their  mind.  They  deferred  the  thino* 
for  some  months,  and  at  last  in  October  they  came  to  the  una- 
nimous resolution  of  choosing  the  catechist  Aaron.  He  was  the 
elder  of  the  two,  best  acquainted  with  the  country  people,  and 
most  able  to  converse  with  them.  His  ordination  was  fixed  for 
the  feast  of  Christmas,  and  having  been  announced  to  the  con- 
gregations in  the  country  and  to  the  Mission  in  Madras,  it  took 
place  on  the  28th  December,  1733.  Eleven  clergymen  were 
present;  the  six  Missionaries  of  the  place,  Sartorius  from  Mad- 
ras, the  two  Danish  ministers  of  Tranquebar  and  two  ship-chap- 
lains. After  the  ceremony  Aaron  preached  on  Galatians  IV.  4, 
5,  and  afterwards  partook  of  the  Lord's  Supper,  together  with 
the  catechists  who  were  to  be  under  his  charge.  The  catechist 
Diogo  was  ordained  at  Christmas,  1741. 

Aaron  was  born  of  heathen  parents  in  Cuddalore  about 
1698.  His  father  Soekanada-Pillei  was  a  merchant  of  a  very 
respectable  caste,  had  his  son  taught  to  read  and  write  and  kept 
him  carefully  to  his  idol-worship.  Now  it  happened  that  the 
charity-school  for  native  children,  founded  by  the  English  in 
1717,  was  exactly  opposite  to  his  father's  house,  so  that  it  was 
very  easy  for  him  to  make  acquaintance  with  the  catechist 
Schawrimuttu  who  then  had  charge  of  it.  From  him  he  ob- 
tained some  biblical  books,  read  them  diligently,  and  "  I  per- 
ceived," he  relates,  "  that  God's  word  was  working  like  a  fire 
within  me  to  melt  my  stony  heart  (Jerem.  XXIII,  29),  but 
this  was  only  a  small  beginning.  The  earthly  thought  arose  in 
me:  Thou  canst  not  leave  thy  father  and  mother,  if  thou  goest 
away,  who  knows  what  evil  may  happen  to  thee?"  In  the  pro- 
vidence of  God,  his  parents  got  into  some  trouble  with  the  com- 
pany, were  obliged  to  leave  the  town,  fell  into  poverty  and 
could  not  support  him.   Then  what  he  had  heard  of  Christianity 


—     163     — 

recurred  to  him,  and  he  wished  much  to  go  to  Tranquebar  where 
he  hoped  to  be  taken  care  of  both  bodily  and  spiritually;  he  did 
not  know  the  road,  but  met  and  accompanied  a  Pariah,  who 
was  on  his  way  thither.  On  arriving  there,  he  went  to  the  ca- 
techist  Schawrimuttu,  who  received  him  as  one  who  was  known 
to  him  and  took  him  to  Ziegenbalg,  who  instructed  him  and 
baptized  him  in  the  year  1718.  Then  came  his  parents  and  wish- 
ed to  take  him  away  again,  but  he  stood  firm.  The  Mis- 
sionaries first  employed  him  as  a  school  -  master,  then  as  a  ca- 
techist,  till  in  the  year  1727  he  began  to  make  himself  parti- 
cularly useful  amongst  the  country  congregations.  After  his 
ordination  he  redoubled  his  activity,  and  after  a  time  the  Mis- 
sionaries perceived  a  great  awakening  amongst  the  country 
people.  Sartorius  of  Madras  who  was  present  at  his  ordination 
says  of  it: "  he  preached  with  great  chearfulness  from  Gal.  IV. 
4,  and  particularly  exhorted  the  Christians  from  the  comitry 
(who  were  to  be  his  especial  charge)  to  be  thankful  for  the 
benefits  that  would  thus  be  bestowed  on  them;  while  he  begged 
others  to  pray  God  to  give  him  the  gifts  necessary  for  his  office. 
By  constant  journies  into  the  country  he  has  gained  great  prac- 
tice, and  according  to  the  testimony  of  all  who  know  him,  has 
hitherto  proved  himself  very  faithful.  He  has  very  dignified 
and  agreeable  manners,  which  gifts  of  Nature  are  rare  amongst 
the  Malabarians, " 

In  order  to  give  the  reader  an  idea  of  Aaron's  activity,  I  will 
give  one  of  his  accounts  of  his  journies: — "  After  I  had  said 
my  prayers  and  eaten  a  little  food,  I  started  on  the  27th  of 
March  1734,  with  the  people  who  were  to  accompany  me. 
When  I  came  to  P.  I  was  received  by  a  heathen  to  whom  I 
read  Acts  XVII,  27  —  28.  and  then  talked  to  him  of  the  know- 
ledge of  God  by  his  works,  both  in  the  support  and  creation  of 


—     164    — 

them,  and  showed  him  how  they  had  left  the  only  true  God, 
whom  they  might  thus  have  known,  and  worshipped  many  false 
gods,  in  whom  they  placed  their  confidence;  in  this  indeed 
their  heathenism  consisted.  He  was  so  angry  at  this,  that  he 
showed  us  the  door  and  began  to  abuse  us,  called  us  perverters 
of  religion  and  seducers  of  the  people,  and  so  irritated  the  whole 
neighbourhood  against  us,  that  no  one  would  allow  us  to  enter 
into  their  houses,  or  even  give  us  a  place  where  we  might  eat. 
We  were  therefore  obliged  to  sit  on  a  bank  near  to  take  our 
mid-day  meal.  Thence  we  went  on  to  M.  where  the  christian 
Mutappen  came  to  meet  us  with  some  of  his  friends.  I  said  to 
them,  "  as  God  has  led  me  to  you,  so  let  us  have  a  short  pray- 
er together."  Then  we  fell  on  our  knees  and  prayed,  but  as  I 
had  to  prepare  my  sermon  for  the  next  day,  I  could  not  then 
remain  longer  with  them.  On  the  28th  I  preached  a  Lent-Ser- 
mon from  the  26th  Chapter  of  the  Gospel  according  to  St. 
Matthew,  verses  1  —  35.  Twenty  nine  of  our  christians  were 
present,  and  7  heathens.  After  the  sermon  was  over,  I  examin- 
ed the  children  in  Catechism,  and  we  then  concluded  with  pray- 
er. I  asked  our  Muttappen  especially,  who  has  a  very  christian 
spirit,  whether  he  had  anything  to  complain  of:  to  this  he  an- 
swered that  his  worldly  affairs  were  going  on  tolerably  well, 
but  that  it  was  bad  for  his  soul  to  live  in  such  a  place;  that 
was  his  only  trouble:  when  I  asked  him  what  he  meant,  he 
answered,  "  You  have  christian  parents  and  churches  amongst 
you,  and  can  hear  the  word  of  God  at  all  times,  but  here  we 
have  nothing  of  the  sort  and  are  surrounded  by  heathens."  An  old 
woman  said  to  me,  "You  see  my  necessities,  and  that  I  am  now 
very  old;  I  beg  you  therefore  to  tell  the  under- Catechist  Schawri 
to  take  better  care  of  my  soul."  I  asked  her,  "When  you  die, 
to  whom  will  you  commend  your  soul?"  She  answered,  "To 


—     165     — 

him  who  was  born  of  Mary!  I  took  the  opportunity  of  explaining 
this  fully  to  her,  and  comforted  her  with  promises  from  God's 
word.  Then  I  announced  that  the  coming  feast  of  Easter  would 
be  celebrated  in  the  country,  for  which  purpose  all  christians 
were  to  assemble  at  S.,  where  the  service  would  be  held;  they 
were  very  much  pleased  at  this.  In  N.  I  went  into  the  house 
of  a  heathen,  for  the  mid-day  meal; — when  I  spoke  to  him  on 
the  folly  of  idolatry,  he  pointed  to  his  stone  idols  and  said,  "  You 
mean  to  say  that  it  is  nonsense  to  believe  in  gods  of  stone  and 
metal;  but  it  is  an  undoubted  truth  that  this  stone-god  as  he 
stands  now  before  our  eyes,  grew  out  of  the  earth  in  former 
days."  I  tried  to  dissuade  him  from  this  superstition.  In  the 
evening  I  arrived  at  T.  Our  Adi,  with  five  of  his  relations  who 
were  still  heathens,  came  to  me  under  a  tree.  I  spoke  to  them 
of  the  knowledge  of  ♦  God,  that  he  is  Lord  of  our  bodies  and 
souls  and  of  everything  that  we  possess;  and  of  the  forgiveness 
of  sins  which  they  sought  in  vain  from  their  false  gods.  On  the 
29th  these  people  gave  up  their  house  to  me  that  I  might  use 
it  for  a  place  of  assembly.  Forty  -  two  persons  came  together 
there.  I  first  spoke  to  the  heathen  listeners,  and  then  preached 
to  the  christians  on  Matt.  XXVI.  36 — 56.  Adi's  daughter  and 
son  -  in  -  law  promised  to  join  our  church." 

"When  I  went  to  S.  on  the  30th,  the  christian  Manickam 
came  to  me;  I  laid  it  to  his  heart  to  think  properly  of  the  bles- 
sings he  had  gained  from  Christianity,  not  to  suppose  that  he 
owed  them  to  his  own  wisdom  or  merits,  but  entirely  to  the 
grace  of  God.  I  reminded  him  to  read  a  chapter  in  the  New 
Testament  for  his  edification  daily,  and  each  time  to  pray  to  God. 
He  said  that  he  did  not  know  how  to  compose  a  prayer  for  such 
an  occasion,  and  asked  me  to  write  one  for  him.  I  therefore 
gave  him  the  following  prayer,  written  on  a  palm-leaf:  u  Dear 


JOG     — 

heavenly  Father,  my  Lord  and  my  Creator,  as  thou  hast  given 
thy  Son  for  my  sins,  I  bring  my  humble  prayer  before  thee. 
I  am  of  very  weak  understanding,  and  do  not  rely  on  my  own 
ability.  0  merciful  God!  make  me  rightly  to  understand  the 
Gospel  which  I  am  now  about  to  read.  Lighten  the  eyes  of 
my  understanding,  that  I  may  learn  to  know  thee  and  to  live 
to  thy  pleasure.  Give  me  grace  to  stand  as  immoveable  as  a 
tree  which  is  firmly  rooted,  and  to  find  refuge  and  protection 
in  thy  Son.  Hear  me,  .0  Lord,  for  thy  Son's  sake;  Amen." 

u  After  I  had  sent  on  the  under  -  catechist  Schawri,  to  as- 
semble our  people  at  the  appointed  place,  I  arrived  at  P.  on 
the  31st.  There  I  spoke  to  a  heathen  on  the  creation,  and  pre- 
servation and  on  the  benefits  which  God  has  given  to  us  in 
his  Son  Jesus.  On  the  1st  of  April  I  arrived  at  S.  Here  there 
is  a  Hindu  who  has  built  a  house  for  travellers  to  rest  in,  has 
dug  a  tank  in  which  he  bathes  daily,  and  has  planted  some  beds 
of  flowers  from  which  he  daily  picks  the  blossoms  and  strews 
them  before  the  idols,  in'  the  firm  belief  that  his  sins  will  thus 
be  remitted.  I  tried  to  prove  to  him  by  the  evidence  of  his  own 
countrymen  that  these  things  could  not  be  sufficient  for  the 
forgiveness  of  sins,  for  a  Tamil  song  says,  "By  whatever  path 
sins  come,  they  must  go  away  by  the  same."  Now  it  is  taught 
amongst  you  that  sins  are  committed  by  the  heart,  the  eyes, 
the  mouth,  and  the  hands:  —  if  they  are  to  be  removed,  they 
must  be  grieved  for  by  the  heart,  wept  for  by  the  eyes,  prayed 
for  by  the  mouth,  and  as  a  sign  of  true  conversion  the  hands 
must  be  used  for  good  works.  But  if  God  will  forgive  us  our 
sins,  such  forgiveness  cannot  take  place  without  a  Mediator  and 
Saviour." 

"  On  the  2nd  I  came  to  S:  and  held  a  discourse  on  Matt. 


n; 


>  t 


XXVI.  57 — 75  in  the  house  of  Devasagayam,  a  christian.  There 
were  thirty  eight  of  our  christians  there,  and  9  heathens.  I  parti- 
cularly remarked  to  the  latter  that  there  was  but  one  God,  who 
had  created  us  and  the  whole  world,  but  they  were  like  child- 
ren who  did  not  know  their  own  father,  but  united  themselves 
to  strange  false  gods.     I  asked  them  whether  the  king  of  Tan- 
jore,  whose  subjects  they  were,  would  allow  them  to  keep  back 
their  tributes  from  him,  and  give  it  to  some  foreign  lords;  and 
further  when  death  came,  which  of  their  idols  would  save  them? 
after  which  I  spoke  of  the  resurrection  from  the  dead.     Then 
I  spoke  especially  to  each  one  of  our  christians.    The  relations 
of  our  Devasagayam  are  still  all  heathens.  He  begged  me  to  speak 
a  word  of  warning  to  them,  which  I  did,  and  they  promised  to 
to  join  our  church.     His  mother  said  to  me,  "  If  you  cure  my 
son's  sickness  I  will  come  also."  I  represented  to  her  that  there 
were  two  kinds  of  sickness,  that  of  the  body  and  that  of  the 
soul.     For  our  bodily  sickness  God  had  ordered  certain  means 
of  cure  which  by  his  blessing  would  remove  it,  but  we  men 
ought  to  think  far  more  about  the  sickness  of  our  souls.  It  was 
like  a  cancer  consuming  all  around  it,  and  was  the  sinful  cor- 
ruption which  clave  to  every  one:  she  must  not  think  that  she 
had  it  not,  but  must  examine  herself  and  think  over  the  sins 
which  she  had  committed  from  her  youth.  After  this  the  child- 
ren repeated  the  catechism. 

On  the  3rd  I  arrived  at  S.  Here  I  spoke  with  some  of  our  chris- 
tians who  came  to  see  me,  and  sent  out  Schawri  and  Njanajudam 
to  call  the  people  together  to  hear  God's  word.  The  heathen 
brother  of  our  Sinappen  was  very  sick; — he  sent  to  me  several 
times  begging  me  to  come  and  baptize  him,  or  as  he  expressed 
it,  to  reconcile  him  to  that  God,  whose  feet  he  had  kissed;  but  I 


—     16$     — 

Waited  for  a  time  in  order  to  awaken  a  deeper  reverence  and  a 
more  ardent  desire  for  this  holy  ordinance  in  his  soul ;  he  was 
however  so  vehement  in  his  prayers  that  I  went  to  him  in  the 
night.  I  asked  him,  "What  makes  you  so  anxious  to  be  baptiz- 
ed; have  you  no  gods  to  help  you  in  Mayaveram  and  Siarhi 
that  you  send  for  us?"  Answer.  "In  order  to  be  freed  from  my 
sins."   Question.  "What  has  given  you  these  ideas?"  Answer. 
"  My  brother  Sinappen  said  to  me  with  grief,  brother,  if  you 
should  die.  how  should  I  dare  to  burn  you  who-  are  a  heathen? 
you  are  dying  in  the  name  of  the  devil?  Now  in  my  days  of 
health  I  never  took  any  trouble  to  become  a  child  of  God,  and 
my  heart  has  become  very  heavy  on  that  account :  when  my 
brother  prays  with  me,  I  pray  with  my  mouth  and  repeat  after 
him,  0  Jesus."  Question.  "Shall  I  baptize  you  at  once?"  Answer. 
"Ah  yes,  let  this  blessing  come  to  me  at  this  time."   Question. 
"  If  you  die  in  this  illness,  do  you  think  that  you  shall  die  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  your  Saviour?"  Answer.    "Yes."    Question. 
"But  if  you  recover  from  this  sickness,  will  you  then,  accord- 
ing to  the  covenant  into  which  you  are  about  to  enter,  remain 
unchanged  in  the  christian  religion  until  the  time  of  your  death, 
and  like  other  christians  watch  carefully  to  the  salvation  of  your 
soul?"  Answer.  "Yes."  I  then  went  through  the  five  brief  rules 
of  the  order  of  salvation,  explained  them,  prayed  over  him 
and  baptized  him.     On  the  4th  we  had  a  meeting  at  the  house 
of  our  assistant  Njanajudam,  at  which  47  of  our  christians  were 
present.   A  hymn  on  our  Saviour's  Passion  was  first  sung  and 
a   prayer  offered  up  and  then  an  exposition  given  on  Matt. 
XXVII.  1 — 26,  after  which  followed  some  more  verses  of  the 
hymn  and  prayer.  In  the  afternoon  I  began  my  return  journey, 
came  to  K.  where  I  talked  with  the  christians  on  the  sufferings 
of  Christ,  and  arrived  at  Poreiar  in  the  evening.     During  this 


—     169     — 

journey  I  have  seen  traces  of  much  that  is  good  and  upright 
amongst  many  of  the  christians." 

This  is  perhaps  enough  for  a  sample.     On  the  working  of 
Aaron's  ordination  the  Missionaries  write  thus  to  the  Court- 
preacher  Ziegenhagen  in  London,  who  had  for  many  years  been 
a  friend  to  the  Mission.     "  Your  Reverence  will  like  to  know 
how  our  native  preacher  is  going  on,  and  what  effect  his  ordi- 
nation has  had  on  the  heathen.  You  will  see  testimonials  to  his 
work  in  our  reports  showing  how  he  preaches  the  word  of  God 
to  our  congregations  in  the  country,  administers  the  sacraments 
at  various  places,  superintends  the  carrying  out  of  proper  dis- 
cipline and  order,  manages  and  encourages  the  catechists,  in 
which  things  he  has  made  great  progress,  and  will  continue  to 
make  more  as  he  gains  experience  in  the  things  which  belong 
to  the  kingdom  of  God  and  to  the  ministry.  May  God  preserve 
his  delicate  health  in  these  journies  which  on  account  of  the 
heat,  the  wind,  the  dust  and  the  wading  through  water,  are 
very  arduous  in  this  country.  With  regard  to  the  second  point, 
we  have  had  many  instances  both  in  the  territories  of  the  com- 
pany and  in  the  country,  of  the  good  effect  which  his  ordina- 
tion and  the  exercise  of  his  ministry  have  produced  on  the  na- 
tives, because  they  see  that  one  of  their  own  nation  can  be 
found,  who  devotes  himself  to  teaching  a  congregation  in  the 
things  connected  with  God  and  eternity,  without  seeking  his 
own  advantage.  From  the  increased  consideration  in  which  he 
is  held,  the  way  to  Christianity  has  been  made  easier  to  many, 
for  they  have  thus  overcome  the  disgrace  connected  with  it. 
His  house  in  Poreiar  is  constantly  visited,  not  only  by  members 
of  the  congregation,  but  also  by  Hindus  of  different  grades. 
He  thus  has  the  opportunity  of  making  this  intercourse  conduce 
to  the  extension  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  some  of  the  fruit  ri- 

11 


—     170     —  v 

pening  quickly,  some  after  a  time.  May  the  Lord  give  to  us 
and  our  work  many  more  like  him,  yea  better  and  better  na- 
tive Teachers!  We  trust  in  his  mercy  to  accomplish  this." 

Aaron  continued  year  after  year  in  the  exercise  of  his  la- 
borious ministry,  occupied  almost  constantly  with  journies  into 
the  country*  In  order  to  relieve  him  of  part  of  the  fatigues,  a 
horse  was  procured  for  him,  but  yet  his  health  suffered  much. 
He  lived  on  the  best  terms  with  all  his  colleagues,  but  more  es- 
pecially with  Diogo,  and  they  divided  the  work  between  them. 
Missionary  Wiedebrock,  who  speaks  of  this  beautiful  union, 
says  that  it  arose  from  the  humility  of  both.  Aaron  had  once 
•  said  to  him  of  his  colleague,  iC  I  am  like  a  child  compared  to 
Diogo,  with  regard  to  knowledge  and  ability."  And  yet  Diogo 
acknowledged  that  Aaron  could  manage  the  natives  much  bet- 
ter than  he  could. 

In  the  last  letter  but  one  which  Aaron  wrote  to  the  Mis- 
sion College  he  says,  u  Though  my  bodily  weakness  is  a  great 
hinderance  to  my  journies,  I  wish  to  work  as  much  as  possible 
for  the  benefit  of  souls.  Sometimes  when  the  Missionaries  tell 
me  to  go  to  a  strange  place,  I  set  off  in  fear  thinking,  "  Who 
knows  what  misfortunes  may  happen  to  you?';  But  the  Lord 
has  always  brought  me  back  in  safety;  and  I  have  most  un- 
doubting  certainty  that  this  safety  is  owing  to  his  protection. 
Sirs,  the  worship  and  kingdom  of  the  devil  are  falling  into  ruin: 
the  dominion  of  the  kingdom  of  Christ  will  be  spread  everywhere, 
the  inhabitants  of  distant  lands  shall  come  to  enter  it  in  faith. 
The  Lord  alone  can  be  our  helper  in  the  sufferings  which  lie 
before  us.  According  to  your  advice  I  will  patiently  bear  all 
crosses  and  trials  that  may  come  upon  me  for  the  sake  of  Christ, 
and  will  console  myself  in  the  thought  that  the  rewards  of  a 
future  world  are  far  more  considerable  than  the  sufferings 


—     171     — 

of  the  present  time;  in  him  alone  will  I  seek  for  help  and  con- 
solation. I  am  often  cast  down  in  my  mind;  but  when  we  suf- 
fer thus  the  God  of  grace  will  send  his  Spirit  to  us,  and  come 
to  help  our  weakness.  (Heb.  IV.  15.)  Our  country  having  now 
suffered  from  war  and  scarcity  for  several  years,  our  people 
are  in  great  distress.  The  French  have  brought  some  papist 
teachers  to  Carical,  which  is  not  far  from,  Tranquebar,  and  there 
they  have  assembled  a  small  congregation;  they  do  not  however 
build  in  the  strength  of  Christ,  but  by  worldly  advantages,  by 
mammon  or  money,  by  errors,  by  heathen  ceremonies  and  the 
like  wood  and  sand.  What  the  mind  of  the  Lord  is  on  this 
point,  we  cannot  tell." 

In  his  last  letter  to  the  College,  he  and  Diogo  write: 
"The  Hindus  wandered  in  many  paths  like  sheep  without  a 
shepherd,  took  darkness  for  light,  Satan  for  God,  hell  for  hea- 
ven, and  thus  lost  their  souls,  but  God  who  is  rich  in  mercy, 
not  only  sent  them  evangelical  teachers  for  their  enlightenment, 
but  has  also  enlightened  and  selected  us  from  amongst  them 
ordaining  us  to  teach  our  coutrymen  instead  of  leaving  them 
to  the  Brahmins,  the  Mendicants  and  the  Exorcists,  who  like 
murderers  of  souls  misled  the  people  by  external  ceremonies 
and  would  finally  have  led  them  to  the  devil  in  the  abyss.  We 
do  not  consider  this  as  a  reward  of  our  merits,  but  solely  as  a 
benefit  which  is  given  to  us  by  the  grace  of  God. ' 

Aaron  undertook  his  journies  in  1745  in  much  suffering, 
but  of  this  he  took  no  particular  notice;  yet  thoughts  of  death 
hovered  over  him.  When  he  was  told  of  the  sudden  death  of 
one  of  his  acquaintances,  he  said,  "if  that  strong  and  healthy 
man  is  dead,  how  much  ought  I  to  think  of  it?"  In  all  his  lat- 
ter journies  he  bade  adieu  to  the  Missionaries  as  if  he  should 
never  see  them  again.       He  undertook  his  last  journey  in  the 

14* 


—     172     — 

month  of  June,  to  celebrate  the  feast  of  Whitsuntide  in  the 
district  of  Mayaveram.  He  assembled  the  christians  at  Tatte- 
irar,  and  according  to  the  testimony  of  his  assistant,  preached 
very  impressively  though  he  was  suffering  great  pain.  He 
warned  the  assistants  that  they  must  not  be  like  hirelings,  and 
exhorted  them  to  faithfulness.  To  the  christians  he  said  that  it 
was  the  last  time  that  he  should  celebrate  the  feast  amongst 
them,  and  they  must  therefore  be  on  their  guard  that  it  might 
become  a  blessing  and  not  a  curse  to  them.  He  returned  home 
very  ill,  and  said  to  a  Missionary  who  came  to  visit  him  in 
Poreiar,  "my  country  journies  are  ended."  He  however  im- 
proved a  little,  and  on  the  23rd  of  June  he  came  in  to  Tran- 
quebar  to  be  present  at  the  marriage  of  his  daughter  to  the  son 
of  Diogo;  but  the  next  day  he  lay  on  his  dying  bed  in  unspeak- 
able agonies,  yet  with  his  full  consciousness,  and  with  his  heart 
turned  to  the  Lord  who  alone  can  help.  He  embraced  his  two 
sons-in-law,  caused  his  youngest  children  to  be  brought  and 
gave  them  a  farewell  kiss:  then  he  said,  "My  Lord  and  my  God; 
thou  knowest  that  I  have  served  thee  without  deception  or 
hypocrisy,  and  thou  art  a  witness  that  I  have  wandered  through 
forests  and  fields; "  his  pain  here  became  so  severe  that  he 
could  not  say  anything  more,  but  cried  out,  "My  Jesus,  my 
Lord,  draw  near  to  me,  draw  near  to  me!"  Li  the  afternoon  he 
received  the  Eucharist  in  the  presence  of  the  priest  Diogo  and 
many  christians,  and  showed  himself  truly  humble,  penitent 
and  believing.  After  24  hours  of  severe  suffering,  he  died,  aged 
47  years,  and  was  buried  in  the  old  Jerusalem  Church. 

"We  can  in  all  sincerity  testify  of  him,"  say  the  Mission- 
aries, "that  he  worked  with  all  faithfulness  according  to  the 
knowledge  and  insight,  grace  and  gifts,  which  Grod  had  given 
liim,  and  that  his  services  to  the  congregations  both  here  and 


—     173     — 

in  the  country  have  been  very  useful  and  much  blessed.    His 

loss  (especially  when  -we  think  of  the  country,  and  how  few 

earnest  workers  are  to  be  found  there)  almost  affects  our  hearts 

more  nearly  than  if  one  of  ourselves  had  left  this  world;  for  he 

could  go  and  work  in  places  that  we  cannot  enter.     He  was  a 

man  who  conducted  himself  in  such  a  way,  that  both  christians 

and  heathens  not  only  felt  respect  for  him,  but  also  loved  and 

trusted  him.      In  difficult  circumstances  which  might  occur 

to  the  congregation  he  could  give  excellent  advice  both  from 

his  upright  judgement  and  his  experience.       He  possessed  a 

peculiar  ability  for  learning  in  a  proper  manner,  even  from 

very  simple  people,  in  what  way  God  had  first  drawn  their 

souls  to  himself.        He  could  give  a  complete  account  of  the 

congregation,  and  could  tell  what  was  wanting  to  each  member 

of  it,  and  how  each  one  should  be  exhorted  according  to  his 

circumstances.    He  warned  and  punished  evil-doers  earnestly 

and  impressively;  but  the  sick  and  suffering  he  treated  with 

love.       He  bore  his  sufferings  with  extraordinary  courage  and 

firmness.      Doubtless  this  faithful  servant  now  enjoys  the  fruit 

of  his  works. " 


CHAPTER  XL 

NATIVE  TEACHERS.— THE  CATECHIST  RAJANAIKEN.— THE  MISSION 
SETS  FOOT  IN  THE  STATES  OF  THE  KING  OF  TANJORE.  —  STATE  OF  THE 

MISSION  IN  THE  YEAR  1740. 

We  have  already  related  that  Ziegenbalg  had  turned  his 
attention  to  the  states  of  the  king  of  Tanjore  and  that  he  did 
not  succeed  in  entering  them  for  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel. 
When  Schultze  was  at  the  head  of  the  Mission,  its  fame  reach 
ed  as  far  as  the  Court  of  Tanjore,  and  a  Prince  of  the  name 
of  Telungurasa,  who  was  nearly  related  to  the  King,  sent  a 
Brahmin  to  Tranquebar  in  the  year  1721,  in  order  to  inquire 
into  its  regulations.  Schultze  profited  by  this  circumstance  to 
begin  a  correspondance  with  the  Prince,  in  whom  he  gained  a 
friend  and  protector  for  the  Mission.  Schultze  even  received  an 
invitation  to  visit  him,  but  he  could  not  leave  Tranquebar  where 
he  had  so  much  to  occupy  him.  When  Schultze  went  to  Ma- 
dras, the  other  Missionaries  wrote  to  the  Prince  and  renewed 
the  communication  with  him;  but  it  was  neither  the  Prince  nor 
any  of  the  mighty  of  the  earth  who  were  to  open  the  way  for 
the  Gospel  into  the  kingdom  of  Tanjore; —  a  poor  outcast  Pariah 
was  to  be  the  instrument  of  this  great  work. 

His  name  was  Rajanaiken;  he  was  an  under -officer  in 
the  service  of  the  king,  and  generally  lived  in  the  city  of  Tanjore, 
though  sometimes  sent  into  the  country  on  different  duties. 
We  will  give  particular  attention  to  this  remarkable  man,  who 


—     175     — 

was  in  the  service  of  tlie  Mission  for  more  than  forty  years. 
As  he  was  brought  up -in  the  Roman  -  Cotholic  church,  he  may 
be  taken  as  a  representative  of  those  natives,  who  left  that 
communion  for  the  Lutheran  and  attached  themselves  to  the 
Mission.  In  a  letter  dated  1732  he  relates  the  events  of  his  life 
in  such  a  lively  manner,  that  I  will  here  give  it  at  length: — 

"  My  grandfather  remained  a  heathen  until  he  was  30 
years  of  age,  and  then  joined  the  Romish  church.      When  my 
Father  was  born  he  was  baptized,  and  I  also  received  the  ho- 
ly rite  soon  after  my  birth.  We  loved  the  holy  Xavier  very  much, 
and  built  a  chapel  to  his  honour,  in  which  service  was  perform- 
ed morning  and  evening.  When  I  had  reached  my  22nd  year, 
and  together  with  my  younger  brother  Sinappen,  had  learned 
to  read,  I  took  a  great  fancy  for  reading  the  books  of  the  Ro- 
mish church;  my  brother  followed  my  example.    All  the  palm- 
leaf  books  which  were  given  to  me  to  read,  contained  the  pa- 
pal histories  of  Saints,  the  miracles  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  and  a 
few  of  those  of  Christ.  When  I  read  of  what  Christ  had  suffer- 
ed for  us,  GJ-od  caused  such  an  emotion  in  my  heart  that   I  be- 
gan to  meditate  on  what  sin  really  is,  and  began  to  fear  his 
judgement.     Then  I  became  very  anxious  to  know  what  had 
happened  before  Christ,  up  to  the  time  of  Moses.    I  tried  both 
flattery  and  presents  on  the  catechists  to  induce  them  to  lend 
some  books  descriptive  of  this,  but  they  declared  that  they  nei- 
ther possessed  nor  knew  of  any  such  books.      When  I  pressed 
them  to  beg  them  of  the  priests,  they  answered  that  it  was  of 
no  use  to  apply  to  them,  for  as  the  books  of  Moses  do  not  exist  in 
Tamil,  why  ask  for  them?  But  the  desire  of  obtaiming  them 
gained  the  mastery  over  me.      It  happened  at  this  time  that  a 
Catholic  mendicant  monk,  of  the  name  of  Sittananden,  came  to 
Madewipatnam  in  the  year  1725.  He  had  a  book  in  which  the 


—     176     — 

four  Gospels  and  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles  were  bound  up  togeth- 
er. (Ziegenbalg's  Translation  of  the  New  Testament,  1st  Part. 
Tranquebar.  1714.)  He  could  not  read  it  himself  and  had  no 
taste  for  what  he  had  heard  out  of  it:  on  the  suggestion  of  some 
one  else  who  could  read,  he  had  torn  out  the  title  page,  on  which 
were  printed  the  name  of  our  king  and  of  the  town  of  Tran- 
quebar. As  soon  as  I  saw  the  book,  I  showed  him  great  respect 
and  said,  "Eh,  what  is  that?  He  said  that  he  had  got  it  in  Mai- 
lapur.*  I  begged  him  to  leave  the  book  with  me  for  a  few  days; 

*This  was  clearly  untrue.  He  had  received  the  book  from  Schultze  in  1724. 
I  will  give  the  account  of  the  two  visits  of  this  beggar  monk  from  the  Halle  reports, 
as  some  light  is  thereby  thrown  on  the  Roman  Catholic  Missionaries  in  India. 
Schultze  writes  in  1724  "A  catholic  mendicant  monk  visited  me,  to  whom  I  gave  a 
short  explanation  of  yesterday's  Tamil  sermon,  but  it  seemed  to  be  a  complete  mys- 
teiy  to  him.  After  he  had  been  some  time  in  Tranquebar  he  came  to  say  goodbye  to 
us  before  starting  again  on  his  journey.  This  man  had  been  a  heathen  priest,  and 
not  only  joined  the  Papists  himself,  but  persuaded  all  his  hearers,  whole  villages  and 
hamlets,  to  become  christians,  for  he  represented  to  them  that  hitherto  he  had  been 
deceiving  them,  but  now  that  he  had  found  the  true  religion,  they  ought  to  follow 
him  and  become  what  he  was.  He  carried  a  great  piece  of  linen  with  him,  on  which 
was  a  short  series  of  pictures  of  Scripture  history.  There  was  represented  a  tall  na- 
ked man  in  whose  back,  hands,  feet,  sides  and  everywhere  little  children  were  to  be 
seen :  when  I  asked  who  it  was  meant  for,  he  answered  that  it  was  Adam  and  that 
the  children  seen  through  his  skin  represented  how  many  nations  had  sprung  from 
him.  I  wished  to  talk  to  him  on  the  Christianity  of  the  heart,  but  he  considered  him- 
self as  a  great  Saint,  and  that  nothing  was  wanting  to  him  but  to  convert  more  hea- 
then. If  this  had  but  been  the  case !  I  gave  him  the  four  Evangelists  and  the  Acts 
of  the  Apostles  in  Tamil,  with  the  One  hundred  Rules  of  life,  (according  to  Wilken's 
Communion-book,  Tranquebar,  1721.)  He  asked  me  why  I  remained  quiet  in  Tran- 
quebar, and  did  not  travel  into  the  country,  by  which  means  I  might  gain  many 
more  converts.  I  answered  him  that  I  was  now  alone,  and  that  even  if  I  wished,  I 
could  not  be  away  for  a  day.  If  time  and  opportunity  came  God  would  point  out  the 
way,  and  also  those  whom  I  ought  to  help." 

In  October  1726,  Missionary  Walther  writes,  "The  Catholic  begger  monk  came 
to  see  me.  Amongst  other  things  he  showed  us  a  picture  of  Christ  complaining  to 
Joseph  of  having  been  struck  by  the  Jews  as  a  child,  and  another  of  the  burial  of  the 
Apostle  James  in  Spain:  I  told  him  that  these  tales  were  not  to  be  found  in  the  Bi- 
ble; then  he  showed  us  Adam  and  Eve  standing  under  the  forbidden  tree,  and  oppo- 
site to  them  Christ  on  the  cross;  this  he  explained  by  saying  that  as  Eve  used 
her  feet  to  approach  the  tree,  the  feet  of  Christ  were  nailed  to  the  cross,  and  that  it 
was  because  *hc  stretched  out  her  hand  to  pluck  the  forbidden  fruit  that  Christ's  hands 
were  pierced: — moreover  that  as  Eve  had  been  made  from  a  rib  out  of  Adam's 
side,  so  Christ  must  be  pierced  in  the  side.  I  said  to  him  that  when  he  show- 
ed these  pictures  to  the  people  he  should  particularly  point  out  to  them  that  thus 
sin  and  death  came  into  the  world  through  one  man,  and  that  there  was  no  salvation 
but  through  Christ,     He  said  that  it  was  much  more  difficult  to  convert  the  people 


—     177     — 

and  as  I  supported  him  for  several  days  andgaye  him  a  turban, 
he  granted  my  request.  He  started  off  again  on  his  begging 
journey ,  left  me  the  book  and  said,  "You  can  keep  it  for  your 
own  reading,  but  take  care  that  the  Priest  does  not  see  it. "  When  I 
had  thus  obtained  the  book,  my  longing  was  satisfied  by  it.  I 
used  to  read  it  all  day  and  then  from  evening  till  midnight  by 
a  light.  When  I  had  read  it  through,  the  Lord  had  given  me 
great  light  in  understanding  it,  I  wished  to  begin  it  again,  but 
then  the  troublesome  thought  arose,  "When  Sittananden  returns 
and  wants  his  book,  what  will  you  do?"  I  therefore  determined 
to  copy  it  all  out  on  Palm -leaves  and  make  a  book  of  them, 
and  so  began  to  write.  I  copied  the  gospels  of  St.  Matthew 
and  Mark  and  part  of  Luke,  but  being  but  little  accustomed 
to  writing,  my  hand  was  so  tired  that  I  could  do  no  more. 
Moreover  as  Sittananden  did  not  return  to  Tanjore,  I  left  off 
writing.  I  did  not  know  that  it  was  the  Gospel  which  had  been 
printed  at  the  Tranquebar  Press,  but  supposed  it  to  be  one  of 
the  books  of  the  Romish  Priests.  The  texts  which  struck  me 
most  while  I  was  reading  poured  like  oil  upon  my  faith  and 
caused  it  to  burn  brightly.  In  the  year  17271  was  commanded  to 
go  to  the  villages  which  lie  near  Tranquebar;  in  Tirukadeiur  I  met 
with  a  man  named  Schawrimuttu,  a  papist,  who  possessed  a  small 
printed  book  in  the  form  of  a  letter  addressed  to  all  Malabarians 

on  the  coast  than  in  the  interior;  that  since  he  had  last  heen  in  Tranquebar  2000  peo- 
ple living  about  Madura  and  towards  the  dominions  of  the  Mogul  had  become  christi- 
ans, and  that  in  the  country  the  people  did  not  lead  such  a  godless  life  as  on 
the  coast.  He  asked  whether  I  was  married,  adding  that  he  and  his  priests  were 
not  so.  I  explained  to  him  that  it  was  very  well  if  this  gift  were  given  by  God  to 
a  man,  but  that  is  was  a  human  decree  to  enforce  celibacy  and  explained  to  him  what 
St.  Paul  says  to  Timothy  on  the  subject.  They  hold  marriage  as  a  sacrament.  I. 
asked  him  whether  he  still  had  the  book  which"Schultze  gave  him.  He  said  that 
he  had  and  that  Ziegenbalg,  whom  he  praised  highly,  had  once  given  him  26  ser- 
mons. I  gave  him  the  Epistles,  the  first  part  of  the  Old  Testament,  and  two  little 
books,  because  he  said  that  he  wanted  something  to  discuss  with  the  heathen.  He 
finally  admired  the  efforts  that  were  being  made  here  for  the  conversion  of  the  na- 
tives, so  much  greater  than  in  other  places. 


—     178 

(written  by  Zicgcnbalg,  Tranquebar   1717),  and  though  he 
could  not  read,  he  pretended  to  read  out  of  it  anything  that 
came  into  his  head,  for  which  his  ignorant  (Romish)  hearers  gave 
him  alms.  I  bought  the  book  from  him  for  one  fano,  and  asked 
him  how  he  came  by  it?  I  got  it  from  a  German  priest,  an- 
swered he.     A  German  priest,  said  I,  what  does  that  mean? 
Those  who  do  not  pray  to  our  holy  mother  are  German  priests, 
said  he,  there  are  two  kinds  of  priests.     When  I  heard  that,  I 
thought  whether  it  were  possible  for  Christianity  to  be  divided 
into  two  sects,  and  I  began  to  doubt  as  to  which  of  them  might 
possess  the  gift  of  salvation.     Then  I  said,  I  must  enquire  into 
this  thoroughly;  make  me  acquainted  with  these  Gorman  priests; 
if  you  bring  me  another  baok  I  will  repay  you.      He  brought 
me   another  book,  treating  of  heathenism    (also   written  by 
Ziegenbalg,  Tranquebar  1713.)  As  soon  as  I  had  bought  it  from 
him,  I  wrote  a  letter  to  the  priests,  and  sent  him  off  with  it. 
He  brought  me  another  book  called  Theology  (Theology  by 
Freylinghausen,  Tranquebar  1716) ,  but  he  had  not  given  the  let- 
ter to  the  priests.  I  paid  him  for  the  book  but  as  I  saw  that  he 
was  a  deceiver  I  sent  him  back  again  with  a  letter,  and  said, 
this  time  you  must  bring  me  back  a  very  large  book  from  the 
priests.      This  letter  he  also  put  aside,  and  came  back  with 
all  sorts  of  lies,  telling  me  that  the  priests  required  4  Fano  be- 
fore they  would  send  the  book:  I  saw  that  this  was  false,  yet 
I  gave  him  the  money  togather  with  a  letter,  but  I  sent  a  man 
after  him  to  watch  him  and  see  where  he  went.     When  this 
messenger  returned  and  brought  me  news,  I  sent  a  letter  by 
him  to  the  book  -  binder  Johann.      He  sent  me  an  answer  and 
the  large  Catechism    (Abstract  of  Spener's  Explanation  of  the 
Catechism,  Tranquebar  1719.)  All  the  letters  which  I  had  writ- 
ten before,  had  been  kept  back  by  my  messenger.  When  I  had 


—     179     — 

read  Johann's  letter,  I  wrote  another  letter  to  the  priests  and 
sent  it  by  my  new  messenger.  The  priests  immediately  sent  me 
an  answer  with  the  books  of  Moses  which  I  had  so  long  cle'sir- 
ed,  and  moreover  the  second  part  of  the  Old  Testament.  (Tran- 
quebar, 1720  and  1726.)  My  wish  was  therefore  most  com- 
fortably fulfilled.  I  then  went  myself  to  Tranquebar  with  my 
brothers,  visited  the  priests,  and  received  the  Epistles  and  Gos- 
pels bound  up  together  (the  whole  New  Testament.)  Moreover 
I  had  the  opportunity  of  talking  with  them  on  the  difference 
between  the  Romish  and  the  Evangelical  creeds.  After  I  had 
had  about  six  month's  intercourse  with  them,  partly  by  writing, 
partly  by  word  of  mouth,  and  had  studied  the  Bible  after  I  re- 
turned to  Tanjore,  the  evangelical  texts  which  shine  like  stars  in 
heaven  had  awakened  and  strengthened  me.  I  was  thereby  per- 
suaded to  leave  the  Romish  church.  When  I  returned  to  Tran- 
quebar in  1728, 1  joined  the  Evangelical  congregation,  and  be- 
came a  servant  of  the  church.  This  is  what  has  happened  to 
me,  a  poor  sinner,  but  Grod  has  shown  himself  merciful  even  to 
such  an  one  and  has  made  me  a  partaker  in  the  salvation  of 
his  most  holy  Son;  to  him  and  to  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  be 
honour  and  praise  for  ever  and  ever." 

As  soon  as  Ravanaiken  had  thus  received  enlightenment  in 
the  christian  faith,  he  was-  anxious  to  communicate  it  to  others, 
and  even  before  he  had  formally  joined  the  Evangelical  Church 
he  came  to  Tranquebar  in  the  summer  with  three  of  his  sol- 
diers, whom  he  had  taught  himsef  as  well  as  he  could,  and  who 
having  given  up  the  worship  of  idols  wished  to  be  baptized. 
The  Missionaries  told  him  that  these  men  must*be  better  in- 
structed first,  and  learn  the  most  important  parts  of  the  small 
Catechism:  he  therefore  determined  to  leave  them  in  Tranque- 
bar for  some  days,  and  see  whether  he  could  not  answer  for 


—     180     — 

their  absence  to  his  superiors;  if  they  were  not  satisfied  he  would 
send  a  messenger  for  them,  but  he  begged  that  the  Missionaries 
worfld  do  their  utmost  to  finish  their  instruction  in  a  week,  and 
then  to  let  him  know  when  they  were  to  be  baptized.  All  pos- 
sible diligence  was  given  to  teaching  these  catechumens,  who 
made  use  of  the  time  to  the  best  advantage,  asked  questions 
when  they  did  not  understand,  and  in  ten  days  had  learned  the 
commandments,  the  articles  of  belief,  the  Lord's  Prayer  and  the 
explanation  of  Baptism  in  the  short  Catechism,  one  of  them  also 
what  is  said  there  on  the  Lord's  Supper,  and  this  when  they  could 
not  read  for  themselves  but  were  obliged  to  learn  it  as  it  was  re- 
peated to  them.  They  sent  a  messenger  to  Rayanaiken,  who 
speedily  came.  The  Missionaries  pointed  out  the  10th  Chapter 
of  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles  to  him,  where  mention  is  made  of 
the  Centurion  Cornelius,  and  his  God-fearing  soldiers,  and  as 
the  word  centurion  was  rendered  "  Serwcikaren  "  in  the  Tamil 
translation,  which  was  his  own  rank  in  the  army,  he  was  very 
much  pleased  and  exhorted  his  soldiers  earnestly.  These  latter 
professed  their  faith  openly  before  the  congregation,  were. bap- 
tized, and  returned  the  next  day  to  their  duties. 

In  the  same  year,  1727,  the  catechist  Aaron  was  sent  forth 
to  inquire  into  the  state  of  things  in  Tanjore,  and  to  make  the 
way  easier  to  him,  he  had  a  letter  and  some  small  presents  for 
Prince  Telungurasa,  who  received  him  very  kindly,  and  invi- 
ted the  Missionaries  to  come  to  see  him  at  Pulliruckumwolur 
( Vyteesurenkoil) ,  a  town  which  lies  about  one  day's  journey 
north-west  frGm  Tranquebar,  and  to  which  he  was  going  in  the 
course  of  the  next  year  to  a  heathen  festival.  Before  the  end 
of  the  year,  the  Missionaries  baptized  fifteen  heathens  from 
Tanjore  who  were  brought  to  them  by  Sattianaden,  a  son  of  the 


—     181     — 

Romish  catechist  Surappen.      This  Sattianaden  was  placed  as 
catecliist  over  tliis  vouno;  and  small  flock. 

Iii  Marcli  1728,  Missionary  Pressier  started  to  moot  Te- 
lungurasa according  to  his  invitation.  He  was  very  kindly  re- 
ceived by  him,  and  had  an  opportunity  of  speaking  of  the  prin- 
cipal points  of  christian  faith  before  him  and  a  number  of  Ma- 
labar learned  men.  Telungurasa  cared  for  his  entertain- 
ment; and  invited  him  to  visit  him  in  Tanjore  during  the  en- 
suing summer  when  the  marriage  of  his  son  was  to  be  celebrat- 
ed.  Pressier  accepted  the  invitation  with  pleasure,  as  it  would 
be  the  first  occasion  on  which  the  gates  of  the  heathen  capital 
had  opened  to  a  Missionary  of  ours.  Telungurasa  sent  a  carriage  for 
him  which  brought  him  safely  to  Tanjore  just  at  the  time  when 
the  newly  -  married  Prince  was  making  his  entry.  Pressier's 
coachman  advised  him  to  cover  himself  that  the  guard  at  the 
gate  might  not  perceive  that  he  was  an  European,  but  he  ha- 
ving made  known  who  and  what  he  was,  during  his  whole  jour- 
ney, determined  to  do  so  here,  and  advanced  into  the  town 
without  difficulty,  where  the  Prince  received  him  into  his  house 
and  showed  him  all  the  friendship  he  could  desire.  Pressier 
had  an  opportunity  of  speaking  to  him  in  the  presence  of  a 
great  many  others,  and  declared  to  him  the  intentions  of  the 
Tranquebar  Mission,  and  afterwards  when  he  spoke  to  the  prince 
alone  ho  told  him  freely  that  though  he  was  seeking  for  salva- 
tion, his  idol-worship  was  not  the  true  path  to  it;  that  he  must 
advise  him  to  leave  the  service  of  idols  and  of  sin,  and  to  turn 
to  the  true  God  and  the  only  Mediator  Jesus  Christ,  for  whose 
sake  God  had  promised  that  all  who  should  believe  in  him  and 
be  baptized,  should  be  saved;  but  that  all  men  who  had  not  this 
faith  should  be  given  up  to  eternal  condemnation.    His  calling 


—     182     — 

would  not  allow  him  to  be  silent  on  this  point,  lest  he  should 
feel  guilty  when  they  should  meet  before  the  judgement-seat  of 
Grod.  Telungurasa  did  not  say  much  to  this,  indeed  he  was  al- 
ways a  man  who  spoke  but  little,  but  he  continued  to  show 
great  friendship  to  Pressier,  permitted  him  to  go  into  the  town 
and  to  speak  to  any  one  in  his  house.  It  was  a  great  delight  to 
the  evangelical  christians  in  the  suburb  of  Tanj ore  to  see  Pressier, 
for  the  catholics  had  reproached  them,  saying,  that  their  priest  sat 
in  a  corner  and  never  came  near  them.  As  he  always  made  known 
the  word  of  Grod  whenever  a  suitable  opportunity  offered  as  he 
was  passing  through  the  town,  he  was  very  near  being  forced 
out  of  it  in  a  hurry,  for  the  Mohammedans  who  formed  the 
town -garrison,  and  who  were  perhaps  urged  on  by  the  Roman 
Catholics  took  his  free  speaking  in  very  ill  part;  and  one  day  as  he 
was  passing  by  the  principal  guard  and  saluted  the  Mohamme- 
dan soldiers,  one  of  them  called  out  to  him,  "  You  live  on 
the  fat  of  the  Mohammedan  religion,  and  are  come  to 
throw  sand  in  the  eyes  of  the  heathen,"  by  which  they  meant 
that  whatever  the  christians  might  advance  against  heathenism 
was  borrowed  from  Mohammed  and  that  they  were  strutting 
about  in  borrowed  feathers.  Immediately  after  this  he  was  stop- 
ped by  the  Mohammedan  Cutwal  or  Town-bailiff  who  spoke  to 
him  very  sharply,  and  sent  to  the  Commandant  to  know  what 
was  to  be  done  with  him.  Towards  evening  an  order  came  to 
take  him  out  of  the  town,  and  the  Cutwal  and  his  soldiers  wish- 
ed to  carry  out  this  order  immediately;  but  meanwhile  the  af- 
fair had  come  to  the  ears  of  Telungurasa  who  immediately  sent 
some  soldiers  to  release  Pressier:  he  was  close  to  the  gates  when 
they  stopped  him,  and  after  some  altercation  with  the  people  of  the 
Cutwal,  they  led  him  back  to  the  Prince,  who  arranged  the  af- 
fair with  the  Commandant  and  warned  Pressier  not  to  speak 


183 


•  > 


on  religion  when  he  went  out  in  future:  though  he  grave  him 
full  leave  to  speak  to  those  who  should  come  to  visit  him  in  his 
house,  and  visiters  were  not  wanting.  When  he  wished  to  re- 
turn home,  Telungurasa  had  some  difficulty  in  getting  the  ne- 
cessary pass  from  the  Commandant,  but  it  was  finally  obtain- 
ed and  he  left  Tanjore  in  the  same  carriage  which  had  brought 
him  there.  On  his  way  he  began  to  speak  with  the  heathens 
one  day  on  the  text,  "  And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might 
know  thee  the  only  true  God  and  Jesus  Christ  whom  thou 
hast  sent, "  but  Telungurasa's  people  interrupted  him  hastily ,  being 
fearful  of  the  consequences.  Pressier  remarks  on  this,  "The  help 
and  protection  which  one  enjoys  from  man,  may  bo  a  great  assis- 
tance, but  on  the  other  side,  it  is  also  an  obstacle.  May  God 
therefore  cause  the  labourers  in  his  work  to  be  ever  less  and 
less  in  need  of  outward  help,  and  particularly  cause  faithful  and 
enlightened  men  to  arise  from  amongst  the  people,  who,  armed 
with  the  gospel  of  Christ  and  freed  from  those  difficulties  which 
beset  the  path  of  Europeans,  may  turn  their  country-men  to 
the  Lord."  This  wish  was  partly  fulfilled  that  very  year  when 
Rayanaiken  began  his  service  in  the  Mission.  He  could  no  long- 
er support  himself  amongst  the  Roman  Catholics,  who,  unable 
to  oppose  him  in  argument  or  to  silence  him  by  fair  promises, 
took  refuge  in  threats  and  maledictions.  Rayanaiken  therefore 
went  with  some  of  his  friends  to  Tranquebar  and  having  given 
up  his  military  position,  was  employed  by  the  Mission  as  a  cate- 
chist  in  the  Tanjore  territory;  his  brother  Sinnappen  being  assign- 
ed to  him  as  an  assistant.  After  he  had  partaken  of  the  Lord's 
Supper  for  the  first  time,  he  left  the  Missionaries  who  exhort- 
ed him  to  steadfastness,  and  promised  to  pray  for  him  as  there 
was  no  knowing  what  his  opponents  might  do.  "I  shall  repre- 
sent to  thorn,''  said  lie,  "  that  it  is  very  unwise  to  throw  stones 


—     184     — 

at  one  who  has  a  very  important  and  powerful  man  as  his  pro- 
tector, for  it  is  very  likely  that  the  powerful  man  himself  may 
come  out  to  meet  them.  Thus  I  have  taken  refuge  in  Jesus." 

Thus  he  went  forth  to  his  work  in  Tanjore,  and  if  he  had 
before  been  a  thorn  in  the  eyes  of  the  Roman  Catholics,  he  now 
became  doubly  so.    "To  what  church  do  you  belong?"  he  was 
one  day  asked  scoffingly  before  his  last  journey  to  Tranquebar. 
"Ah,  how  many  churches  are  there?"  asked  he.  "  Two,"  said 
the  mockers,  "the  romish  and  the  heretic."  "I  belong  to  neither 
of  these,"  said  Rayanaiken,  "but  to  the  one  holy  church  which 
is  mentioned  in  the  catechism."  Even  then  he  understood  how 
to  answer  thus  intelligently,  but  he  asked  and  received  from  the 
Missionaries  further  instruction  in  Church  -  History  before  re- 
turning amongst  his  angry  opponents,  whose  conduct  may  be 
imagined  from  a  letter  which  he  wrote  soon  after  his  return. 
"After  I  had  said  goodbye  to  you,"  he  writes,  "I  returned  to  Tan- 
jore;  but  even  before  I  left  Tranquebar  the  catechist  at  Tanjore 
had  written  to  the  Priest  at  Elakuridschi  (Father  Beschi,  an 
European)  to  tell  him  that  Rayanaiken,  his  brother,  Schawri- 
muttu  and  Sandiar  (a  sub-officer  and  a  soldier  who  accompanied 
them)  had  all  four  joined  the  heretical  priest  at  Tranquebar. 
Thereupon   the    priest   called    his    catechists    together,    and 
sent  them  into  Tanjore  with  orders  to  call  together  the  elders 
and  principal  people  of  eighteen  villages  and  to  bring  them  to 
his  house.  If  any  one  hesitated  about  coming,  they  were  to  give 
him  some  food.  The  catechists  assembled  the  people  and  led  them 
to  Elakuridschi.  The  priest  said  to  them,  "Rayanaiken  hasjoined 
the  heretics,  do  you  think  that  right?"  They  asked  him  what  they 
ought  to  do.  The  priest  answered,  "If  Rayanaiken  were  to  come 
to  me,   I  would  make  him  know  my  mind  but  he  does  not 
come:  you  can  do  what  you  like."     Then  one  said,  "  I  will  kill 


—     185     — 

him;"  but  the  priest  answered,  "If  you  were  to  kill  him  it  would 
give  us  a  bad  name,  so  we  must  go  to  work  in  another  way, 
and  we  will  gain  our  end  as  certainly  as  if  you  were  to  kill 
him."  Then  they  returned  to  Tanjore,  and  the  catechist  as- 
sembled the  people  of  18  villages.  They  went  to  my  native 
place,  Sinneianpaleiam,  troubled  my  parents  very  much  and 
wished  to  pull  my  house  down:  but  the  inhabitants  of  all  castes 
interfered  to  prevent  this  outrage.  This  happened  on  the  very 
day  that  I  started  from  Tranquebar.  As  they  could  not  succeed 
in  pulling  my  house  down,  they  declared  that  I  had  lost  my 
caste,  and  forbid  my  relations  to  hold  any  intercourse  with  me. 
Now  that  I  have  arrived  in  Tanjore  many  despise  me  and  be- 
have towards  me  as  enemies.  They  threaten  the  heathen  tell- 
ing them  not  to  speak  to  me,  which  distresses  my  parents  very 
much.  I  wished  to  let  you  know  this  and  to  beg  you  to  send 
me  some  good  advice." 

The  Missionaries  wrote  to  Father  Beschi  on  the  subject, 
and  exhorted  Rayanaiken  to  show  patience,  to  keep  quiet  for  a 
time,  and  meet  his  opponents  with  gentleness  and  humility,  but 
though  he  followed  this  advice,  and  would  not  dispute  with  the 
Roman  Catholics,  his  persecutions  continued  with  great  bitter- 
ness for  many  years.  It  would  take  too  much  space  to  particu- 
larize all  that  he  had  to  suffer;  we  can  only  find  room  for  some 
of  the  more  prominent  features.  His  parents  and  some  of  his 
relations  joined  the  Evangelical  Church  in  1728  and  partook  of 
the  Lord's  Supper  in  Tranquebar.  This  step  cost  his  father  his 
life,  for  in  1731  a  number  of  armed  papists  attacked  him  and 
his  relations  under  pretext  of  a  quarrel  about  some  property, 
and  while  the  old  man  was  trying  to  defend  his  youngest  son 
from  the  murderers,  he  was  himself  overpowered  and  sank  un- 

15 


—     18G     — 

tier  their  blows: — two  hours  afterwards  he  expired,  crying  out, 
1 l  My  Father! "  His  sons  exposed  the  corpse  at  the  gates  of  the  town, 
hoping  thus  to  attract  the  attention  of  the  authorities,  but  as 
they  had  no  money  to  give,  they  could  not  get  justice.  Raya- 
naiken  himself  was  in  constant  danger  of  his  life,  for  his  ene- 
mies did  not  satisfy  themselves  with  branding  his  name,  but  in 
the  year  1732  sent  assassins  to  his  house  by  night,  who  how- 
ever failed  in  their  aim.  The  year  after,  he  and  his  compa- 
nions were  attacked  by  papists  on  the  road  to  Tranquebar;  a  sword 
was  drawn  against  him,  when  his  wife  threw  herself  between 
him  and  it,  and  he  escaped  from  his  enemies  with  rough  treat- 
ment only.  It  happened  thus  almost  every  year:  and  he  tried 
to  take  all  these  troubles  as  useful  exercises  for  patience.  "As 
I  have  to  bear  so  much  contempt,  abuse  and  threatening, '  he 
writes  in  1735,  "I  will  tell  you  how  I  console  myself.  The  Lord 
means  well  towards  me  both  for  time  and  for  eternity:  the  suf- 
ferings which  he  sends  me  will  wrork  for  me  a  far  more  exceed- 
ing weight  of  glory,  for  which  I  look  with  anxious  trust.  I  have* 
not  been  able  to  hide  these  thoughts  from  my  people.  God  has 
graciously  granted  me  this  relief,  and  without  his  will  nothing 
can  happen  to  me."  His  patience  and  long-suffering  were 
blessed,  for  he  won  many  souls,  and  amongst  them  some  of  his 
most  violent  enemies.  He  possessed  a  thorough  acquaintance 
with  the  Bible,  and  an  excellent  delivery.  He  even  ventured 
on  a  connected  discourse,  for  I  find  it  remarked  that  in  1736 
when  one  of  the  Missionaries  was  ill,  he  took  his  place  in  Je- 
rusalem Church,  and  preached  on  Matt.  XVI.  18,  showing  that 
the  church  is  built  on  the  rock  of  Christ  and  that  the  gates  of 
hell  shall  not  prevail  against  it.  He  was  not  however  ordained, 
because  his  caste  was  so  contemptible,  that  people  of  conse- 
quence would  not  pay  any  attention  to  his  words.     As  this  re- 


—     187     — 

markable  man  lived  long  after  the  year  1740,  we  shall  return 
to  his  activity  and  development  in  the  latter  part  of  his  life. 

If  we  cast  a  glance  at  the  condition  of  the  Mission  in  the 
year  1740,  we  find  that  it  had  reached  its  highest  point  about 
that  time,  from  which  it  did  not  sink  down  suddenly,  for  it  re- 
mained in  full  activity  for  some  years  after,  and  spread  so  to 
speak,  though  it  did  not  develop  itself  further.  In  1740  it  had 
spread  northwards  to  the  English  settlements  on  the  coast,  Cud- 
dalore  and  Madras,  and  in  the  interior  it  ha'd  spread  into  the 
kingdom  of  Tanjore.  Ten  European  Missionaries  were  in  full 
activity,  with  about  30  natives  under  them.  One  native,  Aaron, 
was  already  ordained,  and  another,  Diogo,  was  soon  to  be.  The 
number  of  those  who  had  been  converted  since  the  foundation 
of  the  Mission  was  above  5600.  The  entire  Bible  had  been  printed 
in  the  Tamil  language,  and  translations  of  it  into  other  Indian 
tongues  were  in  the  course  of  preparation.  Before  we  begin  to 
.consider  the  time  from  1740  to  1840  in  which  we  shall  see  how 
the  Mission  stood  for  a  time,  then  became  sickly  and  almost 
died,  we  will  devote  the  next  Chapter  to  seeing  how  it  was  ma- 
naged in  Europe. 


-=»!-«e«E=3==»B=4: 


CHAPTER  XII. 

THE  MISSION  IS  SUPERINTENDED   AT    HALLE.—  NO  DESIRE   FOR 
DANISH  MISSIONARIES.  — SILENCE  IN  THE  PRINTED  REPORTS. 

It  has  been  already  remarked  that  the  Tranquebar  Mis- 
sion was  a  result  of  the  cooperation  of  the  Danes,  the  English  and 
the  Germans,  and  this  cooperation  lasted  throughout  the  time  that 
we  have  been  considering.  The  original  gift  of  King  Frederick  IV 
of  2000  Rix-dollars  yearly,  had  been  increased  1000  R.  D.  by 
King  Christian  VI.  The  English  did  not  merely  show  sympa- 
thy and  give  their  manifold  assistance  to  the  Mission  in  Tran- 
quebar, but  they  undertook  the  support  of  any  mission-stations 
which  should  be  established  in  their  settlements  along  the  coast. 
Much  assistance  was  sent  yearly  from  Germany,  and  it  was 
there  that  everything  was  arranged,  for  though  a  cursory  ob- 
server might  suppose  that  the  Mission  was  directed  by  the 
Mission -College  in  Copenhagen,  and  that  Francke,  father  and 
son,  were  only  sympathetic  advisers,  a  more  careful  inquiry 
convinces  us  that  the  real  spring  of  the  complicated  machine 
was  at  Halle.  The  counsel  of  the  counseller  had  become  so 
indispensable  in  many  respects,  that  he  might  fairly  be  consi- 
dered as  a  law  -giver. 

I  will  point  out  one  important  arrangement  in  which  Halle 
gained  the  mastery  over  Denmark;  — that  the  Missionaries  were 
chosen  almost  exclusively  from  that  city  or  the  adherents  of  the 
Halle  school,  and  this  notwithstanding  the  wish  that  was  expres- 
sed in  many  quarters  that  they  should  be  Danes,  or  at  least 


—     189     — 

German  subjects  of  the  King  of  Denmark.  This  question  was 
often  agitated,  but  it  was  rarely  of  any  use.  It  is  true  that  the 
Court  -  preacher  Masius  recommended  two  Danes  as  Mission- 
aries, Johann  Wilhelm  Petersen,  who  was  afterwards  Pastor 
near  Randsburg,  and  Peter  Claussen  of  Tondern,  who  was  after- 
wards Preacher  at  Rodenas  in  the  provostship  of  Tondern,  but 
that  was  before  the  establishment  of  the  Mission  and  we  can- 
not but  remark  that  about  1711,  when  Professors  Trellund  and 
Lodberg  were  made  Inspectors  of  the  Mission  and  recommended 
two  Danish  candidates,  they  were  not  chosen,  though  they  had 
already  applied  themselves  to  learning  Tamil.  We  have  no  pre- 
cise account  of  the  reason  for  this,  but  it  is  certain,  that  it  was 
the  general  opinion  in  Denmark  that  no  Dane  could  enter  the 
mission  owing  to  the  influence  of  Halle,  and  on  the  other  hand 
the  people  of  Halle  did  not  hesitate  to  ascribe  this  discontent 
to  the  national  vanity  of  the  Danes.  Dal  was  a  Dane  by  birth, 
and  was  sent  to  India  in  1719,  but  then  he  had  studied  at  Halle 
and  was  thoroughly  imbued  with  the  opinions  taught  there:  in 
fact  he  himself  was  against  Danes  being  sent  out  to  Tra*- 
quebar.  UI  should  speak  against  myself,"  says  he,  "were  I 
to  advance  anything  against  Danes  being  fit  for  the  East 
India  Mission,  for  I  am  not  only  a  Danish  subject  of  his  Majesty 
by  birth,  but  I  scarcely  knew  any  other  than  my  Danish  langu- 
age till  I  was  thirteen  years  old. "  He  then  goes  on  to  show, 
that  many  men  in  Denmark  are  really  converted  to  God,  that 
they  have  good  opportunities  for  applying  themselves  to  theo- 
logy and  that  learning  a  foreign  language  is  not  difficult  to  them, 
but  yet  he  adds,  "  On  the  other  hand  the  Missionaries  have  been 
nearly  all  Germans  from  the  very  beginning,  and  no  one  can 
deny  that  this  has  been  the  means  of  procuring  us  much  assist- 
ance both  from  Germany  and  England.      All  our  affairs  are 


—     190     — 

managed  in  German,  the  conferences  are  carried  on  in  that  Ian- 
guage,  it  is  used  in  the  Collegiis  biblicis  and  in  the  prayer-meet- 
ings; everyone  reads  German  books,  writes  in  German  to  the 
other  Missionaries,  to  England,  to  Denmark,  and  to  our  supe- 
riors, and  receives  German  letters  from  them  in  return.  If  the 
Missionary  is  a  Dane  he  is  the  more  likely  to  be  attracted  into 
wordly  society,  and  therefore  we  may  declare  this  paradox:  that 
in  English  places  a  Missionary  should  not  be  an  Englishman, 
in  Dutch  places  not  a  Dutchman,  and  in  Danish  places  not  a 
Dane.  If  a  single  Dane  is  to  be  taken,  he  ought  to  understand 
the  German  language  and  to  be  acquainted  with  Halle  and  with 
England.  This  is  the  decision  of  several  Danes  here  on  the  spot 
who  have  the  welfare  of  the  Mission  at  heart.  This  only  applies 
to  Danish-born  subjects;  but  if  we  look  for  Danish  subjects  in 
general,  the  Duchy  of  Schleswig  or  Southern  -  Jutland  where 
I  was  born,  the  Duchy  of  Holstein  and  the  country  of  Olden- 
burg might  be  taken  into  consideration.  Danish  subjects  might 
therefore  be  sought  for  in  Halle,  as  it  happened  in  1717,  when 
the  Mission  -  College  wrote  expressly  on  this  point  to 
Profr.  Francke,  saying  that  it  had  heard  that  there  were  two 
Danes,  Hammerich  and  Dal,  then  studying  there." 

The  Mission  -  College  was  very  earnest  on  this  point,  and  in 
the  year  1740,  when  Missionary  Walther  returned  home,  it  en- 
gaged him  to  teach  Tamil  to  two  Danish  candidates,  Ole  Made- 
rup  and  Elias  Naur  Fabricius,  and  this  teaching  was  to  lead  to 
the  foundation  of  a  Seminary  for  the  Tranquebar  Mission; 
Francke  took  this  very  ill,  and  according  to  him  the  news  of  it 
occasioned  much  apprehension  to  the  Missionaries  in  Tranque- 
bar,  even  to  Dal,  from  whom  he  had  least  expected  it.  When 
one  of  these  Danes,  Maderup,  was  ordained  in  the  year  1741 
and  sent  to  India,  Francke  expressed  his  disapprobation  in  a 


—     191     — 

letter  to  the  Mission- Secretary  Finkenhagen,  and  he  thus  ex- 
presses himself  in  a  later  letter,   "  I  am  very  much  pleased  to 
hear  that  the  Mission-College  agrees  with  me  that  it  would  have 
been  far  better  if  Maderup  had  not  been  sent  out."  Finkenhagen 
writes  on  the  margin  of  this,  "This  was  not  written  to  Francke 
concerning  the  College  but  concerning  me  privately,  in  order  to 
content  the  good  man,  who  had  been  much  troubled  by  this  affair." 
Francke  goes  on  to  express  that  it  would  be  much  better  to  leave 
the  choice  of  the  Missionaries  to  him,  instancing  how  well  the 
last  five  Missionaries  turned  out,  and  how  unitedly  they  lived  to- 
gether and  with  Mr.  Dal,  and  representing  what  a  good  oppor- 
tunity he  had  atHalle  for  knowing  a  man  before  he  recommended 
him.  With  regard  to  Bosse  and  Schultze  ( whom  he  calls  "  not 
altogether  well-advised  Missionaries")  he  does  not  consider  them 
as  resident  in  Halle,  for  both  had  been  away  for  some  time,  and 
both  were  accepted  because  they  offered  themselves  and  there  was 
nothing  to  be  adduced  against  them,  and  Schultze  more  espe- 
cially on  account  of  his  command  of  languages.  When  he  was 
accepted,  the  rule  had  been  followed  of  allowing  the  Mission- 
aries to  offer  themselves,  to  which  Francke  the  elder  encoura- 
ged them  in  his  Collegiis  pdraeneticis;  but  in  1724  by  the  advice 
of  Francke  the  younger,  they  followed  the  different  plan  of 
looking  round  for  suitable  people,  because  they  thought  that  the 
most  sincere  minds  would  be  unwilling  to  forestal  the  work 
of  God  by  coming  forward  themselves,  while  the  unsuitable 
were  ready  enough  to  offer  themselves.  Thus  Francke  had  chosen 
Press ier  and  Walther,  by  whom  the  Mission  had  been  so  much 
invigorated,  while  Bosse,  the  drunkard,  had  come  forward  of  his 
own  accord.       Francke  says   that  he  cannot  see  any  divine 
guidance  in  the  sending  forth  of  Maderup,  and  that  he  does  not 
think  that  any  one  chosen  at  Halle  would  have  been  in  such  a  hurry 


—     192     — 

to  marry  before  going  out;  they  could  not  say  that  there  was 
no  opportunity  for  marriage  in  a  country  where  Herr  Dal  said 
that  there  were  twenty  Danish  young  ladies  who  could  not  get 
husbands.  He  adds  that  he  had  good  reason  for  supposing  that 
some  one  had  proposed  the  idea  of  a  Seminary  to  the  King  out 
of  ill-will  towards  him  (Francke)  and  that  Maderup  was  wishing 
to  return  home,  which  would  be  the  best  thing  he  could  do  as 
he  was  unsuited  to  his  place. 

These  opinions  of  Francke's  received  the  most  complete  re- 
futation; for  Maderup  remained  in  Tranquebar  till  his  death  in 
1776,  and  was  on  excellent  terms  with  the  other  Missionaries.  One 
year  after  Francke  had  thus  confidently  expressed  himself,  he  re- 
ceived a  severe  humiliation  :  —  he  had  recommended  two  men, 
Klein  and  Goring,  who  had  just  been  ordained  at  Copenhagen, 
when  a  letter  came  into  Francke's  hands  which  Goring  had  writ- 
ten that  year  to  a  girl  who  lodged  in  the  house  at  Zeiz  at  which  he 
had  been  teacher,  and  which  contained  the  most  tender  expres- 
sions, ending  with  the  postscript,  "Adieu,  my  dear  heart: "  — he 
had  confided  this  letter  to  the  care  of  one  of  his  former  scholars  at 
the  Pedagogium,  who  kept  it  back  and  opened  it  and  thus  the 
news  reached  Francke.  When  Goring  returned,  he  was  called  to 
account,  but  as  he  involved  himself  in  contradictions  the  result 
was  that  his  appointment  was  cancelled.  Francke  writes  soon 
after  this,  "I  must  say  that  this  event,  taking  place  in  spite  of 
all  my  discreet  care  and  usual  forethought,  has  hurt  me  very 
much  and  has  been  a  great  humiliation  to  me."  But  this  humi- 
liation had  no  lasting  influence  on  his  turn  of  mind,  for  ten  years 
afterwards  when  Maderup  fell  ill  and  wished  to  return,  and  the 
College  was  thinking  of  choosing  another  Dane  in  his  place, 
Francke,  when  his  opinion  was  asked,  sent  a  long  answer  advi- 
sing that  body  to  spare  itself  the  trouble,  as  he  could  choose 


193 

best:  forgetting  what  had  happened,  he  says,  "  I  am  sure  that 
all  who  have  been  recommended  by  me  in  the  last  27  years, 
have  devoted  themselves  entirely  to  the  Mission,  and  that 
none  of  them  have  left  Europe  with  the  idea  of  ever  forsaking 
it."  The  end  was  that  though  Maderup  remained,  Francke  chose 
another  Missionary  from  amongst  the  German-Danish  subjects, 
Peter  Dame  of  Flensburg,  who  was  not  yet  24  years  of  age,  and 
whose  father  was  very  much  opposed  to  his  going;  but  at  last, 
after  much  trouble,  he  gave  his  consent. 

There  was  another  cause  which  contributed  to  the  manage- 
ment  of  the  Mission  being  conducted  at  Halle,  and  this  was  that 
all  its  reports  were  published  there;  the  Mission  -  College 
in  Copenhagen  published  nothing,  but  was  satisfied  to  receive 
all  the  accounts  from  Halle,  which  were  read  also  with  great 
avidity,  not  only  in  Germany,  but  in  all  Evangelical  countries. 
These  (i  Detailed  Reports  from  the  East  Indies"  as  they  were 
called  will  always  be  a  principal  source  of  information  for 
those  who  wish  to  inquire  into  the  history  of  the  Tranquebar 
Mission,  and  I  can  with  truth  testify  to  their  reliability,  if  a  re- 
port is  to  be  called  reliable  because  all  that  it  contains  is  true: 
but  if  on  the  other  hand  a  reliable  report  is  considered  to  be  one 
in  which  nothing  essential  is  omitted,  I  cannot  recommend  these, 
because  -all  that  might  hurt  the  christian  public  or  bring  the 
work  into  discredit,  is  evaded.  I  can  easily  believe  that  Francke 
was  very  slow  to  receive  the  less  agreeable  news,  such  as  the 
quarrels  amongst  the  Missionaries,  some  scandal  in  the  life  of 
one  or  other  of  them,  and  their  misunderstandings  with  the  tem- 
poral authorities,  because  he  might  hope  that  these  things  would 
smoothe  down  with  time,  and  he  would  not  wish  to  hurt  any  one 
by  an  unfavourable  public  mention  of  his  name;  I  can  easily  im- 
agine further  that  the  inclination  of  representing  those  who  are 


—     194     — 

engaged  in  a  work  which  depends  on  public  charity  in  the  most 
favourable  light,  has  had  the  influence  on  the  Halle  reports  of 
filling  them  with  that  which  is  agreeable  and  encouraging,  ra- 
ther than  with  that  wich  is  disagreeable  and  saddening.  But 
with  every  desire  to  judge  fairly,  I  must  declare  my  conviction 
that  any  one  who  should  write  an  account  of  the  Tranquebar 
Mission  from  the  Halle  reports  alone,  would  not  give  a  true  pic- 
ture of  it  as  it  was,  ^because  many  important  particulars  are 
carefully  left  out.  With  all  my  respect  for  the  Franckes,  father 
and  son,  I  must  declare  that  any  one  who  compares  their  pub- 
lic reports  with  their  private  letters,  cannot  resist  the  unplea- 
sant impression  of  a  sort  of  clandestine  caution  ;  —  I  have  no- 
ticed this  more  particularly  in  the  younger  Francke,  with  whose 
private  letters  I  have  the  more  complete  acquaintance,  but  there 
is  no  reason  for  thinking  that  he  did  not  imitate  his  father  in 
this;  indeed  when  one  considers  that  there  is  nothing  to  be 
found  about  Bovingh's  quarrel  in  the  Halle  reports,  it  seems 
that  it  was  the  custom  alreadygin  the  time  of  Francke  the  elder 
to  suppress  what  ought  to  have  been  mentioned. 

In  order  to  put  the  reader  somewhat  in  a  position  to  judge 
in  this  matter,  I  will  give  a  letter  from  Francke  to  Hojer,  the 
Secretary  of  the  Mission  -  College,  which  is  remarkable  also  in 
another  particular: — " I  cannot  blame  you  for  wishing  for  many 
improvements  in  the  management  of  the  Mission.  Much  would 
be  far  better  if  the  spirit  and  remarkable  zeal  of  Ziegenbalg 
showed  themselves  amongst  the  Missionaries;  but  you  will  your- 
self acknowledge  that  these  gifts  are  not  the  same  in  all,  as 
God  distributes  them  according  to  his  good  pleasure,  and  one 
must  take  people  as  one  finds  them  ;  —  we  cannot  get  them  as 
we  would  wish  to  have  them,  for  God  from  the  beginning  has 
carried  on  our  work  amidst  many  trials,  thus  using  feeble  in- 


—     195     — 

struments,  as  he  often  does,  to  show  that  the  honour  is  all  due 
to  him.  When  my  late  father  asked  me  about  15  years  ago  to 
take  charge  of  the  affairs  of  the  Mission,  it  appeared  as  if  the 
sad  quarrels  between  Herr  Schultze  and  Herr  Dal  had  brought 
it  to  its  last  gasp,  if  one  was  to  judge  from  their  sentiments 
and  from  the  complicated  state  of  external  affairs.  I  can  truly 
say  that  I  was  like  Peter  (Acts  X,  10)  when  my  father  gave  me 
the  letters  from  which  the  19th  Report  was  to  be  abstracted. 
When  I  said  so  to  him,  he  answered  me  that  I  must  not  lose 
heart  under  such  circumstances,  but  must  accustom  myself  to 
such  trials,  as  God  could  awaken  his  work  even  from  a  death 
sleep.  I  did  not  venture  to  answer,  but  could  not  enter  into  it, 
especially  when  for  several  years  we  sought  for  Missionaries  at 
the  request  of  the  College,  but  could  not  find  any.  But  now 
God  led  my  thoughts  to  the  late  Herr  Pressier,  whose  remark- 
able sincerity,  faith  and  ability  I  had  long  remarked  at  the  Pe- 
dagogium.  He  and  another,  who  now  has  a  living  in  Branden- 
burg, determined  to  accept  the  call,  but  as  the  latter  drew  back, 
we  looked  to  Herr  Walther  by  whom  I  knew  that  the  Mission 
would  be  far  better  served  than  it  would  have  been  by  the  other, 
though  he  was  also  a  good  man.  Herr  Bosse  was  then  added 
to  the  number  whom  we  certainly  recognized  as  far  the  weakest 
in  the  gifts  both  of  nature  and  grace,  but  as  he  wished  to  go 
and  we  were  in  want  of  help,  we  would  not  repulse  him.  On 
the  arrival  of  these  three  in  Tranquebar,  we  heard  much  more 
on  the  state  of  the  Mission,  by  which,  as  well  as  by  his  subse- 
quent conduct,  Dal  appeared  in  a  far  more  favourable  light. 
The  Mission  then  took  a  turn  for  the  better,  and  though  Schultze's 
quarrels  with  the  new  Missionaries  again  hindered  the  improve- 
ment and  finally  obliged  him  to  leave  Tranquebar,  the  result 
proved  that  it  had  not  been  injured  thereby,  but  on  the  con- 


—     196     — 

trary  a  blessing  was  clearly  seen  when  the  remaining  three  were 
thns  enabled  to  act  freely  and  began  the  work  in  the  country. 
Though  Schultze  could  not  agree  with  his  colleagues  in  Ma- 
dras, but  brought  on  the  same  confusion  there  that  he  had  done 
in  Tranquebar,  God  made  use  of  the  two  others  and  so  ordered 
it,  that  they  commenced  the  Cuddalore  Mission  at  the  desire  of 
the  English  Society.  I  expect  a  great  blessing  of  it,  for  I  know 
them  to  be  two  good  men.  Poor  Schultze  on  the  contrary  has 
shown  his  character  so  unfavourably,  that  both  I  and  the  Court- 
preacher  Ziegenhagen  lose  our  confidence  in  him  more  and  more. 
I  still  firmly  hope  in  faith  in  God  that  he  will  take  care  of  the 
Mission  in  Madras  as  he  has  done  of  that  in  Tranquebar,  though 
I  do  not  see  how  it  is  to  be  done." 

So  far  Francke.  Now  I  must  request  the  reader  to  turn 
his  attention  to  this  19th  Report,  which  was  printed  at  a  time 
when,  according  to  his  own  account,  the  Mission  appeared  to  be 
at  its  last  gasp: — any  one  who  reads,  sees  nothing  of  this,  there 
is  no  sign  of  its  being  in  the  last  extremity,  or  of  any  unusual 
obstacles  being  in  the  way;  indeed  Francke  tries  in  the  Pre- 
face to  contradict  any  unfavourable  rumours,  and  does  not  say 
one  word  on  the  confused  state  of  affairs,  though  he  promises  on 
the  title-page  to  describe  the  state  of  the  Mission  consistently 
with  truth.  I  would  further  ask  any  one  to  go  through  the 
many  Reports  which  were  published  during  the  period  of 
Schultze's  long  services,  and  ask  whether  he  could  point  to  a 
single  place  in  which  mention  is  made  of  any  disagreement 
between  him  and  his  colleagues.  It  may  be  said  that  the  fault 
of  this  should  not  be  laid  on  Francke  alone,  but  also  on  the 
Missionaries,  whose  original  letters  and  journals  are  published 
in  the  Halle  Reports,  but  all  that  was  printed  passed  through 


—     197     — 

Francke's  scissors,  who  expressly  says  in  a  letter  to  Finken- 
hagen,  "It  has  been  my  custom  to  omit  odiosa  from  all  journals 
when  they  were  published."  But  this  kind  of  report  of  course 
gives  but  an  one-sided  view. 

To  give  one  more  proof  of  Francke's  suppressions,  I  will 
add  that,  when  the  fallen  Missionary  Bosse  at  his  return  from 
India  wished  to  come  to  Germany,  Francke  writes  that  it  can- 
not be  allowed,  as  his  offence,  which  until  this  date  is  unknown  in 
Germany,  must  be  noticed  on  his  arrival;  it  would  thus  become 
known,  and  scandal  would  arise  to  the  work,  as  many  would 
take  occasion  to  scoff,  and  many  springs  of  benevolence  might 
be  choked.  Here  we  have  Francke's  own  acknowledgement  of 
what  must  strike  every  reader  of  the  Halle  Reports,  and  see  that 
Bosse's  vicious  conduct,  which  caused  so  much  trouble  for  so 
many  years,  was  not  touched  upon  with  one  word  in  the  Halle 
publications,  and  we  also  see  that  the  reason  of  this  silence  was 
the  dread  of  diminishing  the  contributions  which  flowed  into 
the  Mission. 
#■ 

It  would  be  very  easy  to  increase  examples  of  this,  but 
what  has  been  already  adduced  sufficiently  proves  that  the 
Halle  Reports  must  be  used  with  caution,  and  that  they  are  by 
no  means  sufficient  for  any  one  who  wishes  to  give  a  true 
(full)  history  of  the  Mission. 

Having  shown  Francke's  failings  we  must  remark  that  he 
showed  a  warm  zeal,  an  untiring  diligence  and  a  remarkable 
unselfishness  which  greatly  redound  to  his  honour,  indeed  he 
gave  up  his  time  and  strength  to  the  cause  till  his  very  latest 
breath.     It  is  true  that  there  were  many  friends  to  assist  him,- 


—     198     — 

but  there  were  also  many  enemies,  and  the  powerful  support 
given  by  the  Halle  theologians  to  the  founding  and  continuance 
of  the  Mission,  led  all  those  who  were  not  favourable  to  the  one 
to  oppose  themselves  to  the  other.  Besides  that,  we  have  seen 
how  the  Roman  Catholics  attacked  the  budding  evangelical 
Church  in  India  and  they  did  not  fail  to  do  the  same  in 
Europe. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 
C.  F.  SCHWARTZ  IN  TRANQUEBAR,  TRICHINOPOLY  AND  TANJORE. 

We  have  seen  how  the  Tranquebar  Mission  was  first  con- 
ducted by  Ziegenbalg  and  Griindler  and  then  by  Schultze  and 
his  colleagues ;  amongst  the  latter  there  was  not  one  who  so 
raised  himself  above  the  rest  that  the  history  of  the  work  could 
be  miited  to  his  name-  The  first  name  of  consequence  that  we 
meet  with,  between  1740  and  1840,  is  Christian  Frederick 
Schwartz  *,  who  worked  in  the  East  Indies  for  nearly  half  a 
century,  not  so  as  to  become  the  centre  of  the  whole,  but  so  that 
all  eyes  were  turned  towards  him.  He  did  not  lead  the  Mission 
one  step  further  in  its  development,  but  many  steps  in  its  ex- 
tent, and  therefore  we  think  it  right  to  devote  this  Chapter  to 
his  history,  even  though  it  will  lead  our  attention  from  Tran- 
quebar into  the  interior  of  the  country. 

Schwartz  was  born  at  Sonnenburg  in  Neumark  on  the  26th 
of  October  1726.  His  father's  name  was  George;  his  mother 
who  was  one  of  the  Gruner  family,  died  during  his  early  child- 
hood, but  on  her  dying  bed  she  told  both  her  husband  and  her 
Confessor,  that  she  had  dedicated  her  son  to  the  service  of  the 
Lord,  and  begged  them  to  promise  that  at  all  events  they  should 
not  hinder  the  boy  if  he  wished  to  study  theology.  He  was  first 

*Life  and  Acts  of  the  Evangelical  Missionary  Schwartz,  in  Schmidt's  concise 
Biographies  of  remarkable  Evangelical  Missionaries,  Leipzig.  1886.  Dr.  Pearson's  de- 
tailed Life  of  Schwartz  which  has  been  translated  from  English  into  German  I  have 
not  seen;  but  it  wat  made  use  of  by  Schmidt. 


—     200     — 

sent  to  the  school  in  his  native  town  and  then  to  that  at  Kus- 
trin,  and  the  good  impression  which  he  had  received  in  his  child- 
hood, though  darkened  at  times,  was  never  entirely  extinguish- 
ed. A.  H.  Francke's  book  entitled,  "Footsteps  of  the  living  and 
all-ruling  Grod,"  made  a  powerful  impression  on  him,  and  gave 
him  the  desire  of  visiting  Halle,  where  he  arrived  in  1746,  and 
met  his  countryman  Benjamin  Schultze,  who  had  just  returned 
from  India  and  who  advised  him  to  give  up  his  intention  of  join- 
ing the  Latin  school  and  to  enter  the  University,  as  he  already 
possessed  the  knowledge  necessary  for  such  a  step.  He  now  at- 
tended theological  lectures,  became  teacher  at  the  Orphan-house, 
and  received  instruction  from  Schultze  in  Tamil,  in  order  to  be 
useful  in  the  correction  of  the  Tamil  Bible  which  they  were  then 
preparing  to  print  in  Halle.  Francke  the  younger  then  made 
his  acquaintance,  and  offered  to  send  him  as  a  Missionary  to 
Tranquebar,  an  offer  which  he  accepted  and  to  which  he  kept 
firm,  though  a  few  days  after  he  was  offered  a  good  living  in 
the  neighbourhood  of  Halle.  Great  hopes  were  entertained  of 
him  from  the  hour  that  he  was  called  to  the  work.  Francke 
writes  to  Finkenhagen,  the  Secretary  of  the  Mission-College: — 
"  With  regard  to  new  labourers,  I  have  not  only  taken  much 
pains  to  find  suitable  men,  but  have  the  pleasure  of  informing 
you  that  the  Lord  has  so  far  given  us  his  blessing  that  we  have 
already  found  one,  of  whom  I  nourish  the  hope  that  he  will  be 
approved  by  the  Honourable  College,  not  only  on  account  of 
his  ability  and  great  talents,  but  also  for  his  other  good  qualities, 
and  that  he  will  work  as  a  blessing  to  the  Mission.  This  is  C.  F. 
Schwartz  of  Sonnenburg  in  the  Mark,  one  of  the  two  students 
who  have  begun  to  learn  Tamil  in  order  to  make  themselves 
useful  in  the  printing  of  the  Bible,  and  this,  though  a  small 
beginning,  is  yet  some  preparation.  When  I  firsj  made  him  the 


—     201     — 

offer,  there  were  some  difficulties  in  the  way,  but  by  God's  as- 
sistance they  have  a]l  been  removed,  so  that  he  feels  the  more 
certain  of  the  will  of  God,  and  has  undertaken  the  work  in  full 
confidence  in  his  name  and  with  the  complete  approbation 
of  his  father."  In  another  letter  he  says  that  Schwartz  had  gain- 
ed such  freedom  in  Tamil,  that  he  could  expound  the  Gospel 
according  to  St.  John  fluently,  and  also  that  he  made  himself 
a  great  favourite  by  his  cheerfulness  and  remarkable  purity 
{candor),  and  being  at  the  same  time  very  diligent  in  study, 
it  was  to  be  hoped  that,  with.  God's  blessing,  he  would  become 
very  useful  to  the  work. 

In  August  1749,  Schwartz  was  ordained  at  Copenhagen 
together  with  the  Missionaries  Poltzenhagen  and  Huttemann, 
and  started  for  Tranquebar  via  England,  arriving  in  July  1750, 
and  preaching  his  first  Tamil  sermon  before  the  end  of  the  year. 
By  his  gentle  and  modest  manners  as  well  as  by  his  zeal  and  abi- 
lity he  won  the  love  and  respect  of  his  colleagues,  but  during  the 
first  ten  years  of  his  stay  in  India,  there  was  nothing  to  dis- 
tinguish him  particularly  from  the  rest.  He  was,  like  the  others, 
diligent  in  the  church  and  in  the  schools,  taught  the  cate- 
chumens and  undertook  several  jour  nies  into  the  interior.  "Oh 
that  the  Lord  would  bless  my  work!"  he  writes  in  1757  to  a 
friend  in  Europe.  "  It  is  certain,  and  I  learn  it  more  thoroughly 
every  day  that  neither  he  that  planteth  nor  he  that  watereth  are 
of  any  consequence,  but  God,  who  giveth  the  increase.  He  who 
does  not  lean  on  himself  or  his  own  strength,  but  undertakes 
the  Mission-work  in  all  humility,  going  forth  with  prayers  and 
tears  to  seek  the  lost,  and  waiting  on  the  Lord  for  the  early 
and  the  latter  rain,  shall  receive  a  blessing  from  God,  and  be 
preserved  from  many  needless  cares.  And  even  if  the  blessing 
is  not  shown  immediately,  God  enlivens  the  heart  and  in  the 

16 


—     202     — 

mean  while  we  can  say  " Nevertheless  at  thy  word  I  will  let  down 
the  net  —  and  when  they  had  done  this  they  enclosed  a  great  mul- 
titude of  fishes"  This  sentence  often  comes  into  my  mind,  more 
especially  as  it  was  the  text  of  my  first  sermon,  and  God  has 
wrought  humility  and  a  childlike  confidence  in  his  word  by  it. 
Oh  may  he  ever  impress  it  more  and  more  on  my  heart  by  his 
Spirit," 

I  must  however  relate  one  trait  of  Schwartz  at  this  time, 
which  does  honour  to  his  heart.  That  he  was  a  great  friend  to 
children,  though  he  was  never  married,  is  well  known,  and 
though  far  removed  from  his  father's  house,  he  yet  remember- 
ed his  filial  duty,  of  which  we  have  a  beautiful  little  example 
in  the  following  letter  to  Justizrath  Finkenhagen: — 

"I  have  this  year  received  the  sad  news  of  my  native  town 
having  suffered  from  a  severe  fire,  by  which  my  father's  house 
has  been  reduced  to  ashes,  and  I  have  been  thinking  of  some 
means  of  performing  my  duty  as  a  son  in  sending  him  some  lit- 
tle assistance.  I  have  a  watch  which  wTas  given  to  me  in  Eng- 
land, and  as  I  make  little  or  no  use  of  it,  I  have  taken  the  li- 
berty of  sending  it  to  you  by  Herr  Bram,  Chaplain  of  H.  M. 
Ship  Bornholm,  with  the  humble  request  that  you  will  sell  it  to 
some  watchmaker,  and  send  the  proceeds,  together  with  the  en- 
closed letter,  to  my  parents,  who  live  at  Sonnenburg  in  Neu- 
mark. 

Most  respectfully 
Tranquebar,  6th.  Octr.   1753.  C.  F.  Schwartz." 

Finkenhagen  remarks  on  this  letter  "the  watch  mention- 
ed herein  was  sold  for  14  Rix- dollars  3  Schllg.  at  the  auction 
held  at  the  Orphan-house,  January  27,  1755." 

In  the  year  1760,  Schwartz  went  by  invitation  to  Ceylon, 
to  strengthen  the  Lutherans  who  were  employed  there  in  the 


—     203     — 

Dutch  service  and  to  administer  the  Lord's  Supper  to  them.  • 
The  journey  was  quite  successful,  but  when  he  arrived  at  Nega- 
patam  in  September,  he  heard  the  extremely  surprising  news 
that  a  wife  had  arrived  for  him  from  Copenhagen.  I  will  relate 
the  whole  history  of  this  extraordinary  event,  as  it  throws  some 
light  on  part  of  the  daily  life  of  the  Missionaries.  It  has  made 
an  unpleasant  impression  on  my  own  feelings,  but  that  would 
not  justify  me  in  concealing  it.  Schwartz's  sincerity  and  ener- 
gy are  remarkably  shown  from  amidst  the  infirmity  and  anxiety 
which  surrounded  him. 

Missionary  Kohlhoff  was  a  widower  and  very  delicate. 
It  was  with  great  difficulty  that  he  could  take  care  of  his  child- 
ren, though  Zeglin's  wife  was  of  great  use  to  him.  As  none  of 
the  ladies  in  Tranquebar  seemed  suitable  for  him,  he  thought 
that  he  should  like  to  procure  a  pious  wife  from  Europe,  and 
Madame  Zeglin  directed  his  attention  to  some  of  her  relations 
in  Colding  and  Sonderburg.  It  was  then  desired,  that  two  of 
these  relations  should  come  out:  one  was  to  become  Kohlhoff*  s 
wife,  and  the  other  was  to  live  with  the  Zeglin s  who  promised 
to  provide  for  her  if  she  feared  God  and  conducted  herself  well* 
And  the  Ship-Chaplain  Bohme,  who. left  Tranquebar  in  1754,  was 
requested  to  arrange  this;  but  he  seems  at  first  to  have  given  him- 
self no  trouble  in  the  matter.'  The  relations  of  Madame  Zeglin  de- 
clined the  offer,  and  Kohlhoff  was  willing  to  forget  the  whole  affair, 
though  Zeglin  was  constantly  reminding  him  to  make  another 
effort.  In  the  year  1758  Bohme  put  himself  in  communication 
with  the  Mission  -  College,  and  represented  that  he  had  receiv- 
ed a  commission  from  the  Missionaries  (indefinitely)  to  procure 
wives  for  them,  and  that  they  reminded  him  of  it  every  year: 
in  consequence  of  his  remarks,  two  girls,  Pernille  Thors  and 

16* 


—     204     — 

•  Anne  Sophie  Pap  started  for  Tranquebar,  under  the  care  of  the 
Mission-Assistant  Bliesner  and  his  wife.  Bohme  had  in  his  own 
mind  assigned  Pernille  Thors  to  Kohlhoff  and  Anne  Pap  to 
Schwartz,  though  there  is  not  a  trace  to  be  found  in  any  of  his 
letters  of  a  desire  to  be  married.  Bohme  had  certainly  overstep- 
ped his  commission  and  led  the  College  to  do  what  it  never 
ought  to  have  done  without  a  more  complete  written  expres- 
sion of  what  the  Missionaries  wished.  As  soon  as  Kohlhoff  heard 
from  Copenhagen  that  Bohme  was  selecting  a  wife  for  him,  he 
wrote  to  forbid  it,  but  his  letter  probably  arrived  after  the  girls 
had  started.  Bliesner  wrote  even  from  Helsingor  complaining 
of  the  improper  conduct  of  Anne  Pap,  and  again  from  the  Cape 
a  still  stronger  account  enclosing  a  lampoon  on  her,  apparently 
written  by  one  of  the  sailors.  When  the  ship  arrived  in  Tran- 
quebar,  the  first  thing  that  Bliesner  did  was  to  write  to  the 
Missionaries  and  tell  them  that  one  of  the  girls  was  quite  un- 
worthy of  entering  the  house  of  an  honest  man.  The  Mission- 
aries were  in  great  consternation.  The  bride  intended  for 
Kohlhoff,  to  whom  Bliesner  gave  a  good  character,  was  receiv- 
ed by  the  Zeglins  into  their  house;  but  no  one  would  have  any- 
thing to  say  to  Anne  Pap,  except  the  Dane  Maderup,  to  whom 
she  declared  with  bitter  tears  that  all  that  Bliesner  had  said 
was  false  and  calumnious,  that  his  wife  had  taken  a  dislike  to 
her  from  the  beginning  of  the  voyage  and  had  scolded  her  in 
the  most  frightful  way.  Anne  Pap  had  not  been  in  any  way  be- 
hind hand  with  abusive  words,  so  that  Maderup  considered 
them  as  much  about  equal  in  that  respect,  but  Bliesner's  grave 
accusations  against  her  could  not  be  proved,  though  it  was 
clear  that  she  had  been  thoughtless  to  the  highest  degree.  What 
would  be  the  end  of  it  all?  The  bridegroom,  Schwartz,  was  in 
Ceylon  and  had  not  the  slightest  idea  of  what  was  awaiting  him 


—     205     — 

on  his  return.    As  soon  as  he  heard  the  news  he  wrotG  the  fol- 
lowing energetic  declaration: — 

"I,  Christian  Frederick  Schwartz,  testify  in  the  presence 
of  God,  to  whom  all  things  are  kown  and  who  will  bring  all  to 
judgment,  that  I  never,  either  by  word  or  by  writing,  either 
lately  or  in  times  past,  have  given  to  Herr  Justizrath  Finken- 
hagen  or  Herr  Bohme  a  commission  to  choose  any  woman  as 
a  companion  for  me  and  to  send  her  here  from  Copenhagen. 
Thus  I  declare  before  God  that  what  has  taken  place  in  this 
affair,  is  without  my  knowledge  and  without  my  having  given 
my  j)ermission  by  a  single  word,  so  that  it  is  not  binding  upon 
me  either  before  God  or  man.  I  wish  that  this  declaration 
should  be  considered  as  the  strongest  oath  which  can  reason- 
ably be  required  of  me,  for  I  could  not  answer  otherwise  if  I 
were  asked  on  the  bed  of  death  itself.  I  add  moreover,  1)  that 
in  the  beginning  I  knew  nothing  of  the  commission  which  the 
dear  Brothers  Kohlhoff  and*  Zeglin  gave  to  Herr  Bohme  and 
Justizrath  Finkenhagen,  but  only  heard  of  it  a  long  time  after; 
2)  that  if  I  had  said  a  word  on  this  subject  to  Herr  Bohme, 
my  name  must  have  appeared;  and  yet  during  the  seven  years 
correspondence  on  the  subject,  my  name  has  not  once  been  men- 
tioned. 3)  Justizrath  Finkenhagen  has  not  one  single  line 
in  my  handwriting  to  prove  that  I  have  given  power  to  any  one 
to  advance  any  thing  from  my  pay  to  such  a  person;  neither 
can  Herr  Bohme  produce  such  a  document.  4)  Had  I  har- 
boured any  such  intention  I  should  have  acted  in  a  most  deceitful 
way  not  to  make  it  known  to  one  amongst  my  dear  Brothers. 
5)  If  this  young  girl  Anne  Sophie  had  conducted  herself  pro- 
perly on  board  ship  so  that  not  a  word  could  be  said  against 
her,  I  yet  could  not  determine  to  marry  her.  I  am  open  to  con- 


—     206     — 

viction  as  to  what  happened  on  board  ship,  or  what  is  said 
to  have  happened,  but  even  if  she  could  prove  in  a  trial 
that  she  had  conducted  herself  well,  I  yet  declare  that  I  will 
not  marry  her.  6)  As  I  am  perfectly  innocent  in-ihis  affair, 
and  have  not  had  anything  to^lo  with^her  being  sent  out,  ei- 
ther by  word  of  mouth  or  by  writing,  I  will  not  pay  one  far- 
thing towards  the  expenses  which  may  have  been  incurred  there- 
by. The  shame  and  scoffing  which  I,  even  though  guiltless, 
must  bear,  I  forgive  from  my  heart. 

May  the  God  of  peace  tread  down  Satan,  the  disturber  of 
peace,  under  our  feet.  Written  at  Negapatam,  9th  September, 
1760." 

Things  thus  looked  very  dismal,  but  when  the  confusion 
was  at  its  height,  better  days  appeared,  and  the  history  ended 
with  marriage,  for  not  only  did  Kohlhoff  decide  on  marrying 
Pernille  Thors,  but  Anne  Pap  was  also  provided  for.  She  had 
been  untiring  in  intruding  upon  Governor  Forch,  who  seems  to 
have  been  a  right  minded  man,  till  at  last  the  happy  thought  struck 
him  of  inquiring  privately  amongst  the  Company's  servants 
whether  any  of  them  were  inclined  to  marry  Miss  Pap,  as  in 
such  a  case  he  should  provide  for  the  wedding,  the  bridal  pre- 
sents &c.  Behold,  an  old  Lieutenant,  Haldager,  appeared  as 
wooer.  Naturally  enough  he  was  not  refused,  and  the  marriage 
was  solemnized  with  great  pomp  at  the  Castle.  Maderup  was 
particularly  glad  that  the  Governor  had  thus  saved  the  girl's 
reputation,  and  that  the  mouth  of  Bliesner's  wife  should  be  stop- 
ped. The  Missionaries  thanked  God  that  the  affair  took  this 
turn;  but  none  of  them  would  pay  for  the  expense  of  her  voyage 
out.   She  died  the  year  after  in  child-birth. 

We  now  return  to  Schwartz's  missionary  -  work.  The  time 
had  now  arrived  when  he,  who  for  ten  years  had  lived  quietly 


—     207     — 

in  Tranquebar,  was  to  become  the  instrument  for  strengthening 
and  spreading  the  branches  of  the  Mission  in  the  interior  of  the 
eountr j.  It  has  already  been  related  how  native  catechists  were 
placed  over  the  different  congregations  which  were  formed  in 
Tanjore,  how  they  were  visited  by  native  priests,  and  how.  one 
Missionary  had  been  so  fortunate  as  to  conquer  the  difficulties 
which  opposed  themselves  to  a  journey  into  the  interior.  The 
next  who  undertook  it,  after  Pressier's  journey  in  1728,  was 
Wiedebrock,  who  accompanied  the  suite  of  Captain  Sivers  as 
interpreter  in  1753,  when  he  had  an  audience  with  the  King 
of  Tanjore'  as  a  Danish  Royal  Commissioner  and  Chief  of  two 
men-of-war.  Wiedebrock  made  use  of  this  opportunity  for 
communicating  with  the  Christians  in  Tanjore,  preached  before 
the  heathens,  and  recommended  the  Mission  and  its  congrega- 
tions to  the  King.  The  recommendation  was  graciously  received, 
the  King  saying,  "They  are  my  people".  From  the  year  1755 
we  may  suppose  that  the  way  into  Tanjore  was  open  to  the  Mis- 
sionaries, for  in  the  same  year  Johann  Wilhelm  Berg,  a  native 
of  Hamburg,  who  was  a  Captain  in  the  service  of  the  King  of 
Tanjore,  obtained  permission  for  one  of  the  Missionaries  to  come 
to  the  capital  to  administer  the  Lord's  Supper  to  himself  and 
others  of  the  Evangelical  Church  who  were  residing  there;  a 
permission  which  was  often  repeated  in  following  years.  Thus 
in  the  year  1762  the  Missionaries  Klein  and  Schwartz  went  to 
Tanjore  on  Captain  Berg's  invitation  and  afterwards  to  Trichi- 
nopoly.  This  town  belonged  to  a  Mohammedan  Nabob,  to  whom 
the  King  of  Tanjore  was  in  some  measure  tributary,  but  there  was 
an  English  garrison  there,  and  many  of  the  officers  were  so 
rejoiced  at  the  arrival  of  the  Missionaries  and  so  willing  to  help 
them,  that  Schwartz  determined  on  remaining  there.  This  visit 
was  the  origin  of  a  complete  change  in  his  position,  for  Trichi- 


—     208 

nopoly  and  Tanjore  became  the  centres  of  his  activity  during 
his  long  and  useful  life. 

A  letter  from  Schwartz  to  the  Mission -College,  dated  the 
10th  of  July  1766,  gives  an  account  of  his  first  year  in  the  in- 
terior. "I  have  now  been  absent  a  considerable  time  from 
Tranquebar,"  he  writes,  "and  have  lived  here  in  Trichinopoly, 
and  now  and  then  in  Tanjore.  It  would  have  been  right  to  inform 
the  College  of  all  that  I  was  doing,  and  I  have  often  thought  of  it, 
but  the  uncertainty  of  my  position  and  the  hope  of  soon  having 
some  thing  certain  to  say,  has  delayed  me  so  long  that  I  must  now 
with  shame  ask  forgiveness  for  my  negligence,  and  promise  in 
future  to  be  more  careful  in  my  duty." 

"My  dear  brethren  have  made  known  by  their  letters  that 
I  have  remained  in  the  country,  with  their  consent  thereto.  At 
the  beginning  of  my  residence  here  (in  Trichinopoly)  I  preach- 
ed before  a  small  Native  and  Portuguese  congregation;  on 
week  days  I  tried  to  instruct  Hindoos,  Mohammedans  and  Ro- 
man Catholics  in  the  Gospel  and  thought  that  I  should  very  soon 
return  to  Tranquebar.  Not  long  after,  the  English  Commandant 
requested  me  to  conduct  public  worship  for  the  English  on  Sun- 
days. I  asked  counsel  of  the  brethren,  and  they  advised  me  to 
do  it  in  gratitude  for  the  protection  which  I  enjoyed  here,  but 
to  take  care  that  the  Portuguese  and  Tamil  congregations  were 
not  neglected.  A  few  months  after,  a  sorrowful  event  led  to  the 
erection  of  an  English  school.  The  powder-manufactory  here 
blew  up,  robbing  many  soldiers  of  their  lives,  and  many  child- 
ren of  their  fathers.  The  Commandant,  Major  Preston,  set  a 
collection  on  foot  for  the  orphans,  which  amounted  to  300  Pa- 
godas; this  he  gave  into  my  hands,  asking  me  to  select  a  school- 
master from  amongst  the  old  soldiers.  I  found  one  who  had 
ability  but  not  sufficient  perseverance,  and  I  therefore  deter- 


—     209     — 

mined  to  send  the  money  and  the  children  to  Fabricius  in  Mad- 
ras. The  English  army  now  marched  upon  Madura,  to  take  the 
place  from  the  rebels.  The  siege  lasted  long,  the  number  of  sick 
and  wounded  increased,  and  Major  Preston  often  begged  me  to 
come  to  him  for  a  time  for  the  sake  of  the  sick.  All  the  breth- 
ren gave  their  consent;  and  I  therefore  went  to  the  camp,  and 
remained  there  for  two  months.*  When  Madura  was  given  up 
to  the  English,  the  Nabob  made  a  present  to  the  army,  of  which 
(without  any  request  on  my  part)  600  Pagodas  were  given  to 
me,  which  I  dedicated  to  the  Tamil  congregation  and  school. 
A  pious  soldier  had  been  wounded  in  the  hand  before  Madura, 
which  made  him  unfit  for  service.  When  I  had  left  the  army, 
and  returned  here  to  Trichinopoly,  this  man  whom  I  did  not 
know  before,  was  brought  to  me  and  recommended  as  a  school- 
master. I  engaged  him.  Not  long  after,  the  Nabob  gave  300 
Pagodas  for  the  orphans,  so  that  I  now  had  600  Pagodas  for 
them,  with  which  I  supported  the  school-master  and  four  child- 
ren. The  other  children  only  received  instruction,  books  and 
paper.  After  ihe  taking  of  Madura,  the  army  returned,  and  re- 
mained for  some  weeks  in  Trichinopoly.      Some  of  the  officers 


*T,his  was  in  the  summer  of  1764.  On  his  arrival  in  the  camp  Schwartz  found 
500  sick  and  wounded  in  two  hospitals.  The  smell  was  most  repulsive, 
but  the  entrance  which  he  found  for  the  Word,  made  him  forget  everything  else. 
He  sat  beside  the  straw  beds  of  the  soldiers,  showed  to  them  the  way  of  repentance 
and  faith,  reminded  them  of  their  father's  house  which  most  of  them  had  left,  and  to 
which  taey  now  wished  to  return  with  shame  and  grief.  Many  were  humbled,  lis- 
tened willingly  and  promised  improvement.  Schwartz  visited  the  hospitals  in  the 
morning,  and  the  sick  officers  in  their  tents  in  the  afternoon.  Madura  was  stormed  on 
the  26thof  June.  Major  Preston  led  the  attack  and  mounted  the  wall,  but  he  was  wound- 
ed and  carried  back  into  the  camp  covered  with  dust  and  blood.  "My  friend,"  said  he  to 
Schwartz,  "  I  am  now  punished  for  my  sins."  He  died  of  his  wounds  a  few  weeks  after- 
wards. "When  I  came  into  the  hospital  after  the  assault,"  says  Schwartz,  "I  saw  such  a 
scene  a(  I  had  never  witnessed  before  in  my  life.  Oh,  war  is  a  terrible  punishment  from 
God!  I  went  from  one  to  the  other,  talked  with  them;  and  prayed  with  them  but  at 
times  l  felt  dumb,  for  the  misery  was  too  great.  Some  prayed,  some  cursed  their  ene- 
mies, some  moaned,  the  instigators  of  the  war  were  not  forgotten.  Schwartz  re- 
mained in  the  camp  till  he  fell  ill  himself  and  was  unable  to  visit  the  hospital. 


—     210     — 

remarked,  that  the  place  where  Divine  Worship  was  performed 
for  the  English  was  most  unsuitable :  this  awoke  the  desire  of 
building  a  church  here  and  a  subscription  was  opened,  which 
soon  amounted  to  2000  Pagodas :  the  church  was  also  to  be 
used  for  the  Tamil  and  Portuguese  congregations.  The  Gover- 
nor in  Madras  helped  both  by  advice  and  deed.  The  Nabob 
when  his  permission  was  asked,  declared  that  he  had  nothing 
to  say  against  the  building  of  the  church,  but  only  wished  that 
it  should  be  outside  the  fort,  in  which  case  he  would  give  a 
good  stone  -  bungalow  for  it;  but  the  Commandant  feeling  that 
such  a  plan  would  make  it  almost  useless  to  the  garrison,  de- 
termined on  building  it  within  the  fort.  The  foundation  was 
laid  on  the  13th  of  March  last  year,  and  on  the  13th  of  March 
this  year,  the  upper  vaulting  which  forms  the  roof,  was  com- 
pleted. The  present  Commandant,  Colonel  Wood,  superintend- 
ed the  building,  whilst  I  had  charge  of  the  materials  and  the 
accounts.  It  was  finished  in  May,  and  consecrated  at  Whitsun- 
tide. The  school-house,  in  which  I  live,  is  to  be  enlarged  and 
improved  by  the  consent  of  the  Nabob.  The  service  is  cDnduct- 
ed  in  this  way  :  —  on  Sunday  morning  from  8  to  10  the  Tamil 
christians  assemble;  at  10  o'clock  the  English,  and  at  4  the 
Portuguese.  In  the  evening  there  is  another  prayer-meeting. 
I  have  as  yet  taken  no  pay  for  the  slight  service  that  I  perform 
for  the  English,  and  do  not  intend  to  do  so,  as  it  leaves  me  the 
more  free.*  On  week-days  I  work  in  the  congregation,  and 
try  to  awaken  the  heathen  by  constant  conversations;  both  a- 
mongst  them  and  the  Roman  Catholics  traces  of  conviction  are 
beginning  to  appear,  which  I  trust  that  God  will  strengthen  by 
his  Holy  Spirit  into  a  real  conversion.   This  year  I  have  prepar-. 

*  He  afterwards  received  a  salary  from  the  English  as  Garrison  -  Chaplain,  all 
of  which  he  gave  up  to  the  good  of  the  congregation. 


—     211     — 

ed  two  little  bands  of  heathen  for  baptism,  and  have  instruct- 
ed two  Portuguese  women  who  voluntarily  left  the  Romish 
church  to  join  ours.  In  this  way  I  have  occupied  myself  here 
as  a  Royal  Danish  Missionary,  and  rejoicing  as  I  do  in  having 
received  a  regular  appointment  from  the  King  of  Denmark,  I 
should  feel  much  grieved  if  any  change  were  to  take  place;  and 
to  do  anything  which  would  lead  to  such  a  change  would  be  a- 
gainst  my  conscience." 

"  Further,  as  there  is  now  a  spacious  Church  here  in  Tri- 
chinopoly,  and  a  Missionary  has  full  freedom  in  publishing  the 
gospel;  as  there  is  both  a  Tamil  and  a  Portuguese  congregation 
and  school,  and  as  the  English,  at  least  in  all  that  belongs  to 
the  Fort,  have  full  power  here  and  will  keep  it  unless  a  more 
powerful  enemy  should  drive  them  away,  my  poor  opinion  is,  that 
Trichinopoly  is  a  very  convenient  place  from  which  to  make 
known  the  Gospel  to  the  country  -  people ;  added  to  which,  a 
Missionary  stationed  here  might  visit  the  congregation  in  Tan- 
jore  at  least  once  a  year.  I  wait  now  for  orders  as  to  whether 
I  should  remain  here  or  return  to  Tranquebar ;  but  if  the  Col- 
lege should  decide  that  a  Danish  Missionary  ought  to  remain 
here,  I  should  think  it  an  advantage  if  an  exchange  could  take 
place  from  time  to  time." 

The  Dane  Maderup  was  the  only  one  amongst  the  Tran- 
quebar Missionaries  who  was  anxious  for  Schwartz  to  be  recall- 
ed, and  who  murmured  at  his  remaining  away  so  long.  The 
others  declared  that  his  cheerfulness,  sincerity,  intelligence  and 
experience  were  extremely  useful  to  them,  and  that  therefore 
they  had  often  wished  to  recall  him,  more  particularly  since 
their  numbers  had  been  diminished  by  the  deaths  of  Dame  and 
Wiedebrock,  but  that  they  could  not  decide  on  calling  him  away 
from  the  great  harvest  which  appeared  to  await  him  in  Trichi- 


—     212     — 

nopoly.  Even  Francke  gave  it  as  his  opinion  that  Schwartz  had 
better  remain  where  he  was,  as  he  was  a  great  favourite  with 
the  English,  the  Nabob,  the  Christians  and  even  with  the  Hea- 
thens, and  that  therefore  he  was  likely  to  work  more  effectually 
than  any  one  who  could  be  put  in  his  place.  Schwartz  then 
wrote  to  the  College  as  follows:  —  u  Your  Excellency  and  the 
honourable  gentlemen  wish  me  to  say  whether  I  will  return  to 
Tranquebar,  or  remain  in  Trichinopoly  on  the  appointment  of 
the  Society  in  London.  In  my  last  letter  I  expressed  that  if  I 
looked  to  my  own  feelings,  and  particularly  to  the  delightful 
intercourse  with  my  brethren  in  Tranquebar,  I  should  certain- 
ly wish  to  return  there,  or  at  least  to  be  able  to  make  an  ex- 
change sometimes.  But  as  all  the  brethren  there  say  that  they 
do  not  feel  sufficiently  at  home  in  the  English  language  to  be 
able  to  change  with  me,  and  fear  that  the  work  might  be  there- 
by obstructed,  I  will  follow  whithersoever  God  shall  call  me,  and 
trust  that  he  will  in  his  mercy  remain  with  me  and  near  me  in  this 
desert.*  But  I  would  rather  be  passive  than  active  in  this  change. 
I  have  written  to  the  Society  that  I  am  not  entirely  disinclin- 
ed to  take  up  a  regular  appointment  if  God  should  will  it,  but 
that  it  would  be  quite  against  my  conscience  to  cooperate  there- 
unto, as  I  consider  your  Excellency  and  the  honourable  Coun- 
cil as  my  appointed  superiors,  and  could  not  undertake  any- 
thing against  or  without  your  consent.  If  I  am  to  be  given  up 
to  the  Society,  it  is  my  humble  request  that  I  should  not  be 
considered  as  separated  from  the  Tranquebar  brethren,  but  as 
being  still  in  union  with  them."  Attention  was  paid  to  this  re- 
quest, and  the  Missionaries  wrote,  "The  wise  resolution  adopt- 
ed by  the  College  with  regard  to  our  honoured  brother   Herr 

*  Schwartz  often  grieves  at  being  alone  in  Trichinopoly,  and  says  that  ex- 
perience lias  taught  him  why  our  Lord  sent  out  his  Apostles  by  two  and  two. 


;)  1  9 
Z  LO         

Schwartz,  may  set  him  at  rest.  He  can  thus  retire  to  us  at  any 
time,  if  it  should  please  God  to  alter  the  state  of  affairs  in  the 
country."  The  letter-books  of  the  Mission- College  show  the  great- 
est good  feeling  in  all  connected  with  Schwartz.  In  a  letter  to 
the  Missionaries  dated  1768,  the  College  says,  "  With  regard  to 
Herr  Schwartz,  we  are  so  convinced  of  his  zeal,  his  unselfish- 
ness and  his  other  merits,  that  we  have  determined  not  to  cut 
off  anything  from  his  pay,  but  to  grant  him  his  full  allowance 
together  with  the  100  £  sterling  given  to  him  by  the  English 
Government  in  Madras,  until  he  shall  think  fit  to  enter  the  Eng- 
lish Mission-service."  In  Schwartz's  own  letter  to  the  College 
from  which  we  have  quoted  above,  he  says,  "  I  have  hitherto 
received  my  pay  from  Tranquebar;  but  as  the  Society  has  this 
year  sent  an  annual  salary  for  a  Missionary  in  Trichinopoly, 
whoever  he  might  be,  my  brethren  in  Tranquebar  have,  since 
the  beginning  of  August,  received  that  which  was  otherwise  in- 
tended for  me.  All  that  the  Company  has  spontaneously  given 
to  me  has  been  devoted  to  building  the  Church  and  the  Mission  - 
house."  Thus  we  have  the  pleasing  sight  of  a  threefold  reward 
pouring  in  from  different  sides  on  a  worthy  and  active  Mission- 
ary, and  that  he,  wanting  but  little  for  himself,  gave  up  liis 
abundance  for  the  good  of  the  Mission. 

Yes,  Schwartz  was  contented  with  very  little.  On  this  we 
will  take  the  testimony  of  a  trustworthy  and  excellent  man,  the 
Englishman  William  Chambers,  who  was  then  living  in  Ben- 
gal, but  who  knew  Schwartz  well  and  thus  describes  his  life 
and  activity  in  writing  to  a  friend:  —  "Before  I  went  to  Trichi- 
nopoly I  had  often  heard  Schwartz  spoken  of  as  a  man  who 
united  great  piety  and  zeal  with  a  thorough  acquaintance  with 
the  native  languages.  But  as  accounts  of  this  kind  were  gene- 
rallv  given  to  me  by  those  who  looked  at  the  features  of  a  reli- 


—     214     — 

gious  character  through  the  dark  glass  of  their  ruling  preju* 
dices,  my  ideas  of  him  were  very  imperfect,  and  having  no 
better  guide  for  my  judgment,  I  mixed  up  what  I  heard  in  his 
praise  with  an  idea  of  gloomy  melancholy  and  extravagant  se- 
verity. But  the  first  sight  of  this  man  made  me  give  up  my 
preconceived  ideas.  Certainly  his  dress  was  worn  and  of  a  very 
old-fashioned  make,  but  in  his  whole  appearance  there  was 
something  exactly  the  reverse  of  what  one  could  call  dismal  or 
repelling.  Picture  to  yourself  a  well-grown  man  somewhat  ab- 
ove middle  height,  holding  himself  naturally  yet  erect,  of  ra- 
ther dark  yet  healthy  complexion,  with  black  curly  hair  and  a 
powerful  manly  glance  expressing  unaffected  modesty,  upright- 
ness and  benevolence,  and  then  you  have  an  idea  of  the  impres- 
sion which  the  first  sight  of  Schwartz  makes  on  a  stranger.  A 
plate-full  of  rice,  boiled  after  the  fashion  of  the  country,  with 
few  vegetables  (curry)  formed  the  daily  meal  to  which  he 
sat  down  with  a  cheerful  countenance:  and  a  piece  of  native 
cloth,  dyed  black,  formed  the  material  of  his  dress  for  a 
year.  Thus  raised  above  all  earthly  cares,  his  whole  attention 
is  turned  towards  spreading  the  Gospel.  He  was  untiring  in 
making  it  known  both  to  the  natives  in  town  and  in  the  out- 
lying villages,  and  before  long  a  congregation  of  converted  Hin- 
dus was  assembled  round  him.  Amongst  these  were  three  or 
four  who  soon  became  assistants  to  him  in  his  work.  These  he 
fed  daily  at  his  table,  and  did  all  that  he  could  for  their  sup- 
port out  of  his  own  income." 

Now  we  shall  see  how  this  plain  and  simple  but  sincere 
and  earnest  man  had  the  good  fortune  of  preaching  the  Gospel 
to  the  very  heathen  King  of  Tanjore  himself.  He  relates  it  in  a 
letter  to  Francke  of  the  3rd  of  June  1769.  "  After  the  Eng- 
lish," says  he,  "had  concluded  a  pence  with  Hyder  Ali,  I  went 


—     2 1 5     — 

to  Tanjore.  I  left  this  on  the  17th  of  April,  and  returned  on  the 
6th  of  May.  I  preached  three  times  almost  every  day  that  I 
was  there,  and  had  many  conferences  with  the  heathens.  The 
King  sent  word  that  he  wished  to  speak  to  me.  On  the  30th  of 
April  after  I  had  preached  to  the  Tamil  congregation  on  pray- 
er, I  was  summoned  to  the  fort.  From  11  o'clock  in  the  mor- 
ning till  5  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  I  was  at  the  castle  talking 
to  all  sorts  of  people,  till  I  was  quite  tired.  A  Brahmin  asked 
me  how  we  could  overcome  our  fleshly  lusts?  I  pointed  out  the 
Saviour  of  the  world  to  him,  to  his  sufferings  and  death,  and  to 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  which  he  had  thereby  won  for  us. 
To  others  I  preached  on  the  deep-seated  corruption  of  man,  on 
the  gracious  deliverer  from  sin,  death,  and  hell,  and  on  the  life 
of  godliness.  When  I  arrived  at  the  castle  there  were  many 
hundred  writers,  accountants,  and  servants,  who  were  very 
friendly  to  me  and  wished  that  I  might  preach  in  such  a  way 
that  unjust  and  godless  manners  might  be  annihilated.  Till  5 
o'clock  I  remained  in  a  place  where  the  King  sometimes  shows 
himself  in  public.  Then  I  was  led  through  many  dark  passages 
to  the  King,  who  sat  in  a  four-cornered  space  on  a  bed,  which 
was  made  fast  at  the  top,  so  that  he  could  rock  himself.  His 
servants  were  ranged  at  his  feet  on  both  sides.  Opposite  to  him, 
at  a  distance  of  10  or  12  feet,  a  chair  was  placed  for  me.  The 
Persian  interpreter  said  that  the  King  had  heard  me  very  well 
spoken  of,  and  that  he  had  sent  for  me  on  that  account.  I  thank- 
ed tne  King  for  his  good  will,  and  wished  that  God  might 
richly  bless  him  with  all  blessings.  The  Persian  interpreter 
would  not  say  that  I  had  blessed  the  King,  but  one  who  stood 
near  him,  said,  "he  blesses  you."  The  King  kindly  answered, 
"He  is  a  priest."  I  was  then  asked  whether  I  was  married,  to 
which  I  answered,  No.  The  King  asked  why  some  Europeans 


—      216      — 

refused  to  worship  images,  while  others,  as  the  French  and  Por- 
tuguese, worshipped  them.  I  begged  permission  to  speak  in 
Tamil  so  that  those  who  were  near  me  might  understand, 
and  said,  "The  worship  of  images  is  expressly  forbidden  in  the 
word  of  God ;  and  it  is  because  the  word  of  God  is  not  given 
into  the  hands  of  the  people  that  they  fall  into  idolatry,  and  go 
wrong."  To  the  question  how  man  could  attain  to  a  knowledge 
of  God,  I  answered,  "  God  has  in  his  great  mercy  revealed 
himself  to  men  in  two  ways;  first,  by  the  great  works  which 
he  has  created,  heaven,  earth,  sun  and  moon,  by  which  he 
shows  his  power,  goodness  and  wisdom,  and  thus  these  great 
works  are  given  for  our  teaching;  yes,  God  manifests  himself 
daily  by  his  daily  care  of  us.  All  that  we  eat  and  drink  re- 
quires us  to  acknowledge  God  and  to  worship  him  gratefully. 
The  second  means  which  God  has  mercifully  given  us  is  his 
word,  which  he  caused  to  be  written  for  us  by  certain  holy  men 
whom  he  had  prepared  and  called  to  the  work.  From  this  we 
can  learn  with  certainty  what  is  necessary  for  our  salvation, 
and  what  we  could  not  have  understood  by  meditating  on  the 
creation.  If  the  King  will  permit,  I  will  give  a  short  acccount 
of  its  principal  doctrines." 

"The  King  answered  that  he  permitted  it,  and  wished  me 
to  mention  some  of  the  principal  doctrines,  on  which  I  said, 
"The  main  doctrine  concerns  the  only  true  God  and  his  glory. 
The  word  or  law  teaches  us  that  God  is  a  Spirit,  who  possesses 
infinite  wisdom,  but  no  form  or  mortal  body  like  ours.  There- 
fore it  is  contrary  to  his  glory  when  men  represent  him  by  any 
image  :  by  this  they  mock  him  instead  of  doing  him  honour  as 
they  think.  The  word  says  further  that  God  is  omniscient,  holy 
and  just,  kind,  benevolent  and  omnipresent.  (These  qualities 
were  explained  at  full,  and  one  of  the  King's  most  distinguished 


—     217     — 

attendants  always  repeated  the  explanation) .  The  true  God  then 
being  a  Spirit,  omniscient,  holy,  just,  omnipotent  and  omnipre- 
sent, judge  for  yourselves  whether  it  is  possible  to  make  an  im- 
age like  him.      Is  a  figure  of  stone  or  a  block  of  wood,  which 
has  neither  sense  nor  holiness,  nor  power  to  do  anything,  a  suit- 
able representation  of  an  all-powerful,  holy  and  omniscient  God? 
Is  not  the  true  God  dishonoured  thereby,  and  the  knowledge  of 
him  obstructed?  We  Europeans  used  in  former  days  to  make  ima- 
ges of  gold,  silver,  stone,  and  wood,  we  used  to  bow  down  before 
these  idols,  and  rambled  about  in  error;  (this  expression  seemed 
to  appear  too  lively  to  the  King,  for  he  smiled,  but  said,  Go  on!) 
but  God  took  pity  on  us,  sent  us  teachers  of  the  truth,  and  brought 
us  to  the  knowledge  of  Himself.  Here  I  introduced  the  first  tea- 
chers of  Christianity  in  Europe  as  interlocutors,  made  them  bring 
forward  their  arguments  against  heathenism  with  very  strong 
expressions,  warning  the  Europeans  most  earnestly  to  forsake 
their  idols,  and  turn  to  the  living  God;  for  this  I  thought  would  be 
the  least  obnoxious  way  of  laying  the  truth  before  them. — We 
then  turned  to  the  great  doctrine  of  the  corruption  which  is  to  be 
found  in  the  heart  of  every  natural  man.  I  said:  a  soul  which  fears 
God  above   everything,  which  loves  and  trusts   him,  whose 
thoughts,  desires,  and  inclinations  are  all  turned  towards  God  to 
honour  and  to  praise  him,  such  a  soul  is  healthy.     But  let  us 
look  into  ourselves,  and  examine  ourselves,  and  we  shall  find 
that  our  inclinations  and  desires  are  all  set  upon  earthly,  carnal 
things.   We  may  feel  sure  from  this,  that  our  souls  are  not  in  a 
right  state,  that  they  are  not  pleasing  to  God,  but  altogether 
corrupt.      God's  word  teaches  us  this  also,  it  agrees  with  our 
own  sad  experience.  — We  then  came  to  the  third  great  doctrine, 
of  our  being  freed  from  grief  and  misery  by  our  Saviour.     I 
said  that  if  he  would  permit  me  I  would  "first  lay  before  him  a 


—     218     — 

beautiful  simile  which  is  contained  in  the  word  of  God.  The  King 
said,  "  yes,  let  us  hear  it."  It  was  the  parable  of  the  prodigal  son  * 
which  I  first  related  and  then  applied.  I  showed  how  we  had 
fallen  away  from  God,  and  had  thus  ruined  ourselves  in  under- 
standing and  will,  in  body  and  soul,  that  husks  were  the  best 
reward  one  could  expect  in  the  service  of  sin  and  the  devil,  and 
that  the  consideration  of  the  good  gifts  which  our  gracious  Father 
will  give  us,  and  of  the  misery  which  we  reap  in  the  service  of 
sin,  ourdit  to  induce  us  to  arise  and  return  to  him:  finallv  I 
showed  how  God  in  his  unspeakable  love  is  always  ready  to 
receive  us.  Here  I  was  interrupted,  for  pastry  was  brought  in, 
of  which  I  was  required  to  partake.  I  ate  a  little,  and  said  that 
we  Christians,  when  we  enjoy  bodily  comforts  or  meat  and  drink, 
thank  God  for  his  goodness  towards  us,  and  beg  him  to  give 
us  grace  to  use  to  his  service  those  powers  which  we  receive  by 
the  enjoyment  of  his  gifts.  At  the  King's  request,  I  then  said  a 
prayer.  Then  he  wished  to  hear  a  hymn,  as  he  had  been  informed 
that  it  was  our  custom  to  sing.  As  I  had  expected  such  a  request, 
I  had  the  hymn  "  Mein  Gott,  das  Herze  bring  ich  dir, "  translated 
by  our  brother  Fabricius,  with  me,  of  which  I  then  sang  the 
three  first  verses.  The  remainder  I  read  to  him,  adding  some 
explanations.  The  last  verse  was  the  15th  "z-u^jsljr/Ej&err  <2uir& 
Q&  /§ir  ^ptfl^jslQjjiJc"  &g.  The  King  expressed  himself  much 
pleased,  and  said  that  he  had  never  heard  such  things  from  an 
European  before,  adding  that  I  must  not  take  it  ill  that  he  had 
kept  me  waiting  all  day.  I  answered  that  I  wished  him  all  good 
things  and  all  blessings  from  my  heart,  and  then  took  my  leave. 
Then  Captain  Berg  and  I  were  conducted  to  another  part  of  the 
palace,  where  supper  was  prepared  for  us. " 

*  The  15th  Chapter  of  St.  Luke  was  Schwartz's  favourite  portion  of  the  Bible 
which  lie  used  constantly  bofrh  in  teaching  and  preaching. 


—     219     — 

Shortly  after  this  Captain  Berg  had  an  audience  with  the 
King,  and  informed  him  that  Schwartz  had  left  (he  had  returned 
in  haste  to  Trichinopoly  on  account  of  the  approach  of  Whitsun- 
tide,) to  which  the  King  answered,  "I  expected,  that  he  would 
always  remain  here."  When  the  Captain  remarked,  "he  would 
not  venture  to  do  that  without  your  permission,"  the  King  said> 
"It  is  my  decided  will  that  he  should  remain  near  me,  that  I 
may  have  the  benefit  of  his  advice. '  The  Captain  immediately 
wrote  an  account  of  this  to  Schwartz,  who  felt  very  uncertain 
as  to  whether  it  were  not  therefore  Ins  duty  to  go  to  Tanjore; 
he  asked  the  advice  of  the  other  Missionaries,  who  thought  that 
he  ought  at  least  to  go  to  the  King  for  a  short  time.  Schwartz 
went  therefore,  but  though  he  visited  and  preached  before  the 
Minister,  so  many  difficulties  were  put  in  the  way  of  his  seeing 
the  King,  that  he  had  but  one  audience,  yet  when  Schwartz  left 
Tanjore,  the  King  sent  word  to  him,  saying:  "  Remember  that 
you  are  my  Padre. ' 

It  was  by  the  gracious  Providence  of  God  that  Schwartz 
did  not  settle  in  Tanjore,  for  the  relation  between  the  King,  the 
Nabob  and  the  English  became  less  and  less  friendly,  till  finally 
war  broke  out.  The  capital  was  twice  besieged,  first  in  the  year 
1771,  when  the  King  begged  for  peace  after  a  breach  had  been 
made  in  the  walls;  this  he  ratified  by  giving  up  one  of  his  most 
important  forts,  and  paying  a  considerable  sum  of  money,  by 
which  the  country  was  frightfully  drained.  In  the  year  1772 
Schwartz  went  to  Tanjore,  and  united  Captain  Berg's  daughter 
to  another  European  Captain  at  the  castle,  in  the  King's  presence. 
It  was  easy  to  see  that  the  King  wished  to  keep  Schwartz,  for 
he  talked  with  him  five  times;  but  it  was  still  more  clear  that 
he  wished  him  to  be  his  advocate  with  the  English,  for  he  said, 
"  Padre,  I  trust  vou,  because  vou  do  nol?  care  for  monev. "  "  I 


—     220     — 

told  him,"  says  Schwartz,  "that  there  would  be  no  sin  in  trying 
to  cement  a  friendship  between  him  and  the  English,  but  it  was 
a  dangerous  thing  to  have  anything  to  do  with  his  people  in 
such  affairs  because  they  were  so  full  of  lies. '  The  servants  of 
the  King  feared  any  interference  from  Schwartz,  expecting  that 
it  would  bring  to  light  their  unjust  practices,  so  the  affair  fell 
to  the  ground,  and  Schwartz  departed  after  having  faithfully 
witnessed  to  the  truth  in  that  corrupt  court.  "  Looking  at  this 
people  from  a  distance,"  says  he,  "one  thinks  that  their  con- 
version cannot  be  very  far  off,  and  one  is  strengthened  in  this 
idea  when  one  sees  them  so  often  willing  to  hear  the  Word  of 
God;  but  when  you  learn  to  know  them  better,  you  see  that  the 
enemy  holds  them  prisoner  in  so  many  nets  and  traps,  that  you 
are  thoroughly  frightened.  But  the  Lord's  arm  is  not  shortened. 
I  seek  for  his  grace  to  publish  the  Gospel  to  high  and  low,  and 
hope  for  the  blessing  of  him  who  has  said, ' i  I  am  with  you  alway . ' ' 
One  day,  when  he  was  earnestly  exhorting  the  King  to  give  his 
heart  to  God,  he  answered,  "  Padre,  that  is  not  so  easy  as  you 
think; "  Schwartz  showed  him  that  by  the  grace  of  God  it  might 
become  both  possible  and  easy,  but  he  was  unable  to  convince 
the  weak  King,  who  was  unnerved  by  luxurious  living  and  quite 
dependant  on  heathen  associations. 

In  the  year  1773  Tanjore  was  stormed  and  taken  by  the 
Nabob  and  the  English  and  the  King  himself  fell  into  their  hands . 
"Thus,"  writes  Schwartz,  "fellTolossi  Easa  in  the  10th  year 
of  his  .reign,  and  by  his  own  fault,  for  he  had  allowed  the  Brah- 
mins and  Mohammedans  to  persuade  him  to  such  a  dissolute 
course  of  life,  that  he  had  forfeited  the  love  of  his  subjects,  and 
thus  lost  his  great  earthly  power.  The  imprisoned  King  sent 
for  me.  As  soon  as  he  saw  me  he  was  very  much  affected,  as 
indeed  was  I.       At  las*t  he  said  to  me  "Do  you  not  know  me, 


—     221     — 

Padre?  "  I  answered  that  I  knew  him  well  and  was  much  grieved 
at  what  had  happened  to  him,  and  that  I  could  only  wish  that 
God  would  give  him  grace  to  bear  his  misfortunes  with  patience." 
The  Nabob  kept  him  in  prison  for  about  two  years  and  a  half, 
and  would  willingly  have  got  rid  of  him  in  order  to  bring  the 
whole  country  under  his  own  dominion;  but  that  was  contrary 
to  the  policy  of  the  English,  who  at  last  determined  to  free  the 
King  and  replace  him;  the  Nabob,  after  a  long  delay,  gave  a 
reluctant  consent.  Schwartz  followed  the  English  regiment, 
which  was  to  relieve  the  Nabob's  guard  in  Tanjore,  and  announce 
freedom  to  the  imprisoned  king.  He  had  allowed  his  beard  to 
grow  and  neglected  his  appearance  altogether.  i '  0  Padre, ' '  said 
he  as  soon  as  he  saw  Schwartz,  "  how  often  I  have  thought  of  you 
when  I  laid  down  to  rest  at  night.  I  have  repented  on  my  couch 
that  I  did  not  follow  you  and  take  the  advice  which  you  gave 
me. '  a  Very  well, "  "  said  Schwartz,  "  suffer  yourself  to  be  led 
to  the  Lord  by  the  humiliation  which  his  hand  has  laid  upon 
you,  and  by  the  unexpected  help  which  he  now  offers  you;  — 
pray  to  him  and  free  yourself  from  the  worship  of  idols. '  His 
answer,  says  Schwartz,  was  like  a  dagger  through  my  heart: 
he  said,  that  he  was  a  man  of  the  world  and  that  he  acknowled- 
ged that  there  was  but  one  true  and  highest  God,  but  yet  that 
mythology  had  originated  with  very  great  men.  aNot  great, 
but  very  foolish  men,"  answered  Schwartz.  He  translated  the 
King's  letter  of  thanks  from  Tamil  into  English,  but  he  stopped 
almost  at  the  beginning  when  he  found  that  the  happy  change 
in  the  King's  circumstances  was  to  be  attributed  to  the  idol  Rama. 
"  What, "  said  Schwartz,  "  has  Rama  done  this? he  who  is  unable 
to  do  anything  for  himself. "  "  Write  that  the  true  God  has 
done  it, "  answered  the  King.  Another  time  he  declared  that 
the  Brahmins  had  been  the  cause  of  all  his  misfortunes,  or  as  he 


—     222     — 

expressed  it,  that  they  had  drowned  him.  Another  time  when 
Schwartz  related  to  him  the  history  of  Joseph,  he  remarked  that 
it  had  some  similarity  to  that  of  Jesus.  "  I  cannot  say  what  is 
passing  in  his  heart,"  Schwartz  remarks,  "but  there  are  no 
external  signs  that  his  sufferings  have  done  him  any  good. '  Im- 
mediately after  his  restoration  some  heathen  festivals  were  cele- 
brated with  great  pomp. 

And  such  as  Tolossi  Easa  then  was,  he  continued  to  be. 
He  had  seen  the  power  of  Christianity,  and  felt  the  greatest 
respect  for  Schwartz,  who  took  up  his  constant  residence  in 
Tanjore  from  about  the  year  1778  (the  care  of  the  congregation 
in  Trichinopoly  was  confided  to  Missionary  Pohle,  who  had 
arrived  the  year  before,  and  who  conducted  the  Mission  at  Trichi- 
nopoly for  40  years),  but  he  not  only  did  not  join  the  Church 
of  Christ,  but  he  kept  up  his  old  life  of  idolatry  and  vice.  He  was 
very  kind  towards  Christians,  indeed  he  even  told  general  Munro 
that  he  was  sure  that  Christianitv  was  a  thousand  times  better 
than  idolatry,  but — he  yet  lived  and  died  a  heathen.  When  his 
end  approached  he  determined  on  adopting  a  child  of  nine  years 
of  age  to  be  his  successor.  He  then  sent  for  Schwartz,  showed 
him  the  child  and  said,  "this  is  not  my  son  but  yours;  you  must 
be  his  guardian  and  protector,  I  lay  his  hand  in  yours.' 
Schwartz  represented  to  him  that  this  arrangement  was  unwise, 
and  advised  him  to  confide  the  guardianship  of  the  child  to  his 
brother  Amer  Sing.  This  advice  was  followed  and  all  the  parties 
at  the  Court  were  satisfied.  Tolossi  Rasa  died  in  January  1787 , 
and  his  brother  succeeded  him.  Amer  Sing,  though  an  idolater 
like  his  predecessor,  was  favourable  to  the  Mission,  and  soon  after 
his  accession  presented  to  its  school  a  village  in  the  neighbour- 
hood of  the  Tranquebar  district,  which  brought  in  1000  Rupees 
yearly.  This  gift  was  to  be  for  ever,  and  a  formal  deed  to  that 


—     223     — 

e fleet  was  made  out,  and  signed  by  the  King  and  his  ministers. 
As  Amer  Sing  behaved  in  a  very  suspicious  way  to  his  pupil 
after  this,  and  Schwartz  even  thought  that  his  life  was  in  danger, 
he  did  not  forget  the  request  of  the  deceased  King,  but  persuaded 
the  English  to  send  the  Prince  in  security  to  Madras,  where 
he  received  a  good  education  under  the  superintendence  of 
Missionary  Gericke  (1793  —  97.)  This  was  the  Prince  Serfogee 
who  ascended  the  throne  in  1798  in  the  room  of  the  deposed 
Amer  Sing,  and  who  could  never  forget  Schwartz,  whom  he 
called  his  father  and  his  benefactor. 

It  is  in  truth  a  very  remarkable  fact  that  a  man  in  such  a 
humble  position  as  Schwartz,  who  had  neither  time  nor  wish 
to  mix  in  politics,  was  yet  so  well  thought  of  by  the  rulers  of 
the  country,  both  English  and  Native,  on  account  of  his  upright- 
ness, unselfishness  and  ability,  that  he  was  often  able  to  render 
them  considerable  service.  I  cannot  stop  here  to  describe  his 
embassies  to  Hyder  Ali  and  Tippoo  Saib,  nor  to  relate  how  by 
the  power  of  love  he  was  often  enabled  to  help  those  who  were 
much  above  him  in  station,  but  must  refer  to  the  accounts  printed 
in  England  and  at  Halle,  and  particularly  to  one  of  his  letters 
which  he  felt  it  necessary  to  write  in  answer  to  a  general  attack 
on  the  usefulness  of  the  Missionaries,  which  had  been  publicly 
made  by  Mr.  Campbell,  formerly  Private  Secretary  to  the 
Governor  of  India,  who  however  had  expressed  a  very  high 
opinion  of  Schwartz's  private  character.  Schwartz  therefore 
wrote  a  letter*  to  prove  that  the  facts  adduced  by  Campbell 
were  distorted,  and  pointed  out  the  fruits  which  the  labours  of 
the  Missionaries  had  already  borne  to  the  blessing  of  the  coun- 
try. As  he  was  thus  obliged  to  bring  forward  some  of  the  events 

*  Abstract  of  the  annual  Reports  and  Correspondence  of  the  Society  for  Promo- 
ting Christian  Knowledge.  London  1814.  8,  P.  739. 


—     224     — 

of  His  own  life,  lie  said  in  conclusion,  "I  feel  that  some  may 
accuse  me  of  self-glorying  and  am  quite  willing  to  agree  that 
there  is  an  appearance  of  it,  but  the  fault  lies  at  the  door  of  him 
who  has  forced  me  into  this  vanity.  I  stand  on  the  brink  of 
eternity,  and  declare  at  this  moment,  that  I  do  not  repent  ha- 
ving spent  43  years  here  in  the  service  of  my  divine  Master. ' 

It  has  been  already  related,  that  from  the  year  1778 
Schwartz's  principalresidencewasinTanjore,  where  he  worked 
in  conjunction  with  Kohlhoff,  a  son  of  the  Tranquebar  Missionary 
who  had  been  with  Schwartz  from  his  childhood  and  been  edu- 
cated by  him  for  the  Mission -work;  he  was  ordained  at  Tran- 
quebar in  1787,  and  trod  closely  in  the  footsteps  of  his  teacher. 
With  them  Tanjore  took  the  place  of  Tranquebar,  and  became 
the  head  quarters  of  the  East  India  Mission,  whence  it  spread 
to  distant  places.  Schwartz,  in  1778,  was  the  first  Missionary 
who  visited  Palamcotta,  and  he  never  lost  sight  of  it  and  its 
neighbourhood.  He  appointed  a  visitor  to  the  congregation 
there  in  Sattianaden,  who  was  a  Catechist  at  that  time,  but  was 
afterwards  ordained  a  preacher,  and  laboured  diligently  in  that 
neighbourhood,  where  also  Missionary  Janicke  laboured,  who  ar- 
rived in  India  in  1788  and  died  in  1800.  I  shall  have  much  to 
say  of  the  great  awakening  in  that  neighbourhood  in  1802,  when 
I  speak  of  Missionary  Gericke. 

With  regard  to  the  Mission  -  congregations  formed  by 
Schwartz,  almost  every  arrangement  was  the  same  as  it  had  been 
in  Tranquebar.  As  we  have  before  said,  his  Mission  was,  pro- 
perly speaking,  an  extension  and  not  a  development  of  the  parent 
one,  and  yet  his  personal  character  is  so  amiable  that  we  like  to 
linger  awhile  over  his  labours.  He  was  always  simple  in  his  inter- 
course with  Heathens,  Mohammedans  and  Christians,  though  he 
well  understood  how  to  bring  in  striking  remarks  and  to  make 


—     225     — 

suitable  answers.  I  will  adduce  a  few  examples.  One  day  he  met 
some  Mohammedans  who  asked  him  to  what  caste  he  belonged. — 
"  I  am  a  sinner, "  answered  Schwartz,  "  like  yourselves;  — your 
question  should  rather  be  how  we  may  free  ourselves  from  sin." 
Once  on  a  journey  from  Trichinopoly  to  Tanjore,  he  met  sever- 
al Brahmins;  one  of  them  asked  him  why  he  was  going  to  Tanjore? 
"To  admonish  the  Christians,"  answered  he.  "Do  they  not  know 
their  Christianity  then?"  asked  the  Brahmin.  Schwartz  answer- 
ed, "Why  do  you  water  a  tree  when  you  have  planted  it?"  to 
which  the  Brahmin  replied,  "That  is  enough,  I  understand  you 
.now". — He  was  preaching  one  day  before  some  Hindus  on  the 
parable  of  the  prodigal  son,  and  exhorted  them  to  return  to 
their  Father.  One  of  them  said,  "  We  also  worship  God  ;  the 
images  are  our  interpreters  who  make  known  our  requests,  and 
enable  us  to  speak  with  the  Lord."  "You  speak  truly,"  said 
Schwartz,  "they  are  like  the  thievish  interpreters  of  this  coun- 
try and  deceive  you."  —  In  the  year  1773  a  Hindu  aged  18 
came  to  Trichinopoly.  Schwartz's  catechists  began  to  talk  with 
him;  he  was  very  passionate  and  said,  "  If  a  priest  talks  to  me  a- 
bout  heathenism,  and  advises  me  to  leave  it,  I  can  bear  it  with 
patience,  but  if  you  mention  such  things  to  me,  I  will  strike 
you  over  the  nose  and  mouth."  Schwartz  called  him  and  said, 
"  I  hear  that  you  are  very  passionate  and  violent.  But  I  do 
not  despise  you  on  that  account.  I  can  assure  you  that  I  have 
better  hopes  of  you  than  of  those  who  are  ready  to  consent  to 
everything  that  is  said.  Now  here  are  many  heathens,  both  of 
high  and  low  castes  who  are  about  to  receive  instruction;  I 
dare  say  your  pride  will  not  allow  you  to  sit  down  amongst  them? 
but  go  to  a  distance  of  20  steps  and  listen  attentively.  When 
you  have  heard  everything  in  this  way,  you  will  be  better  able 
to  pass  judgment  on  what  is  taught;  and  you  can  then  receive 


—     226     — 

or  reject  it  according  to  your  own  convictions.  And  you  ca- 
techists,  let  a  day  or  two  pass  over  till  his  violence  shall  be  a 
little  abated."  He  listened  to  this  advice  half-pleased  and  half- 
angry,  first  went  away,  then  came  nearer,  and  finally  placed 
himself  at  Schwartz's  feet,  who  sat  in  the  midst.  He  soon  be- 
gan to  read  a  little,  and  was  a  most  attentive  listener.  When 
three  months  had  expired,  Schwartz  asked  him  what  his  inten- 
tions were,  whether  he  would  put  on  Christ  by  holy  baptism,  or 
return  to  his  former  ways?  "I  wish  now  to  be  baptized,"  said  he. 
He  was  therefore  publicly  baptized  and  chose  the  name  of 
Samuel.  "  He  is,"  adds  Schwartz,  "  a  very  serious  young  man, 
and  keeps  steadily  to  daily  prayers.  May  the  Lord  confirm, 
support  and  strengthen  him  more  and  more."  —  One  morning 
he  met  a  Brahmin  in  the  palace  of  the  King  of  Tanjore  who 
asked  him,  "Do  you  think  it  wrong  to  touch  a  Pariah?"  "It  is 
certainly  very  wrong,"  answered  Schwartz.  The  Brahmin  who 
had  not  expected  this  answer,  said  further,  "And  what  do  you 
understand  by  a  Pariah?''  "A  thief,  a  liar,  a  calumniator,  a 
drunkard,  a  fornicator,  a  proud  man,"  answered  Schwartz. 
"Alas,"  interrupted  the  Brahmin,  "then  we  are  all  Pariahs." 

As  Schwartz's  life  had  been  the  means  of  edification  and 
blessing  to  many,  so  were  his  last  days,  his  illness  and  his  death. 
I  cannot  find  space  for  all  the  interesting  particulars  that  have 
come  down  to  us,  but  I  will  give  Gericke's  letter  describing  the 
close  of  his  life.  "I  returned  to  Tanjore,"  says  he,  "on  the  17th 
February  1798  from  a  journey  to  Trichinopoly,  and  found  that 
Schwartz's  foot  had  become  very  bad  and  was  full  of  black  spots 
which  were  constantly  increasing.  The  Surgeon  had  began  to 
use  fomentations  of  Peruvian  bark.  As  we  might  expect  the 
death  of  our  dear  brother  at  any  hour,  the  other  brethren  beg- 
ged me  to  remain  with  them,  to  help  them  to  bear  the  burden. 


—     227 

It  was  a  great  benefit  to  me  also,  for  our  dying  friend  present- 
ed a  most  encouraging  example  of  faith,  patience  and  hope. 
Whenever  he  spoke  of  spiritual  and  heavenly  things,  when  he 
prayed,  exhorted,  consoled,  or  talked  of  the  rest  and  peace  of 
the  soul,  he  was  always  in  the  most  happy  frame  of  mind.  He 
often  quoted  texts  of  Scripture  and  verses  of  hymns,  and  al- 
ways in  the  language  of  those  that  were  round  him.  On  the 
Friday  evening  he  said  that  he  did  not  consider  himself  to  be 
so  very  near  his  end,  but  that  it  would  probably  be  accompani- 
ed by  great  sufferings;  later  he  said  several  times,  "  I  think  I 
shall  now  soon  depart  and  go  to  my  heavenly  Father."  When 
he  was  asked  if  he  hoped  that  God's  kingdom  would  be  much 
spread  in  this  country  after  his  death,  he  answered,  "  Yes;  but 
it  will  be  accomplished  through  sufferings  and  trouble."  Again 
when  he  was  asked  whether  he  had  any  wishes  with  regard  to 
the  converts,  he  answered,  u  Help  them  all  to  go  to  heaven. ' 
Another  time  he  said,  "  Many  have  made  a  good  beginning  in 
Christianity,  and  if  any  one  is  surprised  that  the  work  has  not 
been  brought  to  perfection,  let  him  examine  himself."  When 
some  one  showed  pleasure  at  his  patience  and  content,  he  an- 
swered, "  Human  misery  is  universal  and  indeed  I  suffer  very 
little."  He  often  repeated,  "  Our  faithful  God  helps  us  and  pu- 
nishes us  with  moderation.  How  should  we  be  able  to  bear  it 
if  he  punished  us  according  to  our  sins.  But  on  the  other  side 
of  the  grave  there  will  be  no  more  grief,  for  which  may  the 
Lord  Jesus  be  thanked."  He  was  very  grateful  to  his  Native 
Assistants  who  served  him  gratefully,  and  often  said  to  us,  "for 
the  sake  of  these  poor  people,  who  certainly  do  all  that  they  can, 
one  must  not  complain  too  much,  lest  their  duties  should  grow 
burdensome  to  them." 

"On  the  morning  of  the  10th  his  tongue  was  quite  dry 


—     228      — 

and  blackish  and  his  breathing  very  much  oppressed;  at  his  re- 
quest we  prayed,  and  thought  that  it  would  be  the  last  time 
that  lie  would  join  with  us;  but  towards  evening  he  rallied  and  the 
fever  abated.  The  next  day  the  Doctor  (Samuel)  said,  "The  Lord 
has  done  wonders;  the  signs  which  predicted  speedy  dissolution 
are  all  gone."  The  English  Surgeon  also  .said  when  he  looked 
at  the  foot,  that  he  was  quite  astonished  at  the  unexpected  im- 
provement, that  he  now  no  longer  feared  that  the  sick  man 
would  die  from  external  causes,  but  that  his  recovery  was  not 
possible.  On  the  12th  I  wished  to  depart  in  the  afternoon. 
Schwartz  bade  me  adieu  and  said,  "So  you  are  going  away  to- 
day. Salute  all  the  brethren  from  me,  and  tell  them  all  to  look 
to  the  one  thing  needful.  I  am  now  going  to  my  Lord  Jesus: 
if  he  accepts  me,  forgives  me  my  sins  and  does  not  enter  into 
judgment  with  me,  but  treats  me  according  to  his  mercy,  all 
wTill  go  well  with  me  and  I  shall  praise  him.  He  might  reject 
us  on  account  of  our  works,  for  sin  hangs  to  all  of  them."  He 
thanked  God  that  he  had  the  companionship  of  dear  brethren 
in  his  last  hours,  and  that  it  had  been  ordered  that  I  should  be 
with  him  in  his  great  weakness  to  praise  Jesus  as  the  Saviour, 
the  Resurrection  and  the  Life.  Now,  he  added,  pray  once  more. 
I  knelt  down  with  Kohlhoff,  who  had  come  in  meanwhile,  and 
formed  my  prayer  on  the  hymn,  "  Allein  zu  dir,  Herr  Jem 
Christ. " 

"When  he  had  had  some  fresh  fomentations  applied  to  his 
foot,  and  we  had  moved  into  another  room,  we  saw  for  the  first 
time  how  weak  he  was,  and  his  last  hour  seemed  nearer  than 
ever.  I  therefore" determined  to  remain.  In  the  afternoon  he 
talked  long  with  Janicke.  In  the  evening  I  went  to  him  with 
the  Surgeon;  he  knew  him  very  well,  and  said,  "let  us  all  take 
care  lest  any  of  us  remain  behind ! ' '  He  expressed  great  gratitude 


—     229     — 

» 

to  the  Surgeon,  to  his  brother  Missionaries  and  to  his  Native 
Assistants.  These  latter  did  all  that  they  could  with  the  greatest 
willingness,  love  for  their  father  and  teacher  made  everything 
easy  to  them,  they  eagerly  received  every  instructive  word  which 
he  addressed  to  them  and  always  wished  to  be  with  him.    The 
Surgeon  was  much  moved,  and  said  as  he  went  away,  that  he 
hoped  that  I  would  not  leave  the  invalid  now  that  he  was  so 
weak.  He  suffered  more  this  evening  than  before,  for  the  con- 
stant moving  of  the  foot   (which  was  necessary  on  accoimt  of 
the  repeated  fomentations)   and  even  sitting  and  lying  in  bed 
were  painful  to  him;  but  his  patience  and  contentedness  remain- 
ed the  same,  it  was  only  by  an  occasional  sigh  that  we  knew  how 
much  he  suffered.     I  said,  "May  God  give  us  such  peace  and 
happy  resignation  in  the  approach  of  our  last  hours,  as  we  now 
rejoice  to  see  granted  to  you."  "Yes,"  he  said,  "may  he  give 
it  to  you  in  a  measure  which  passeth  utterance."     Our  hearts 
were  much  moved  by  the  love  and  earnestness  with  which  he 
expressed  this  wish.      In  the  night  of  the  13th  he  had  a  lit- 
tle sleep,  but  in  the  morning  of  the  following  day  he  was  op- 
pressed with  torpor  and  his  pulse  was  very  weak.  When  he  was 
awake,  he  spoke  certainly,  but  we  could  scarcely  understand 
what  he  said,  yet  he  seemed  to  understand  all  that  was  said  to 
him.     We  thought  that  he  would  thus  probably  sink  into  the 
sleep  of  death,  but  towards  mid-day  he  became  more  cheerful. 
We  sang  the  hymn  "  Jesu,  meines  Lebens  Leben"  and  he  be- 
gan to  sing  with  us,  spoke  very  humbly  of  himself  and  affec- 
tionately of  our  Saviour,  and  wished  to  be  allowed  then  to  de- 
part and  to  be  with  Christ.   "  If  it  had  pleased  him,  "  said  he, 
"to  support  me  a  little  longer  it  would  have  been  very  pleasant 
to  me;  I  might  then  have  said  a  word  to  the  sick  and  poor,  but 
may  his  will  he  done!  May  he  only  in  his  grace  receive  me.  In- 


—     230     — 

to  thy  hands  I  command  my  spirit,  thou  hast  redeemed  me, 
thou  faithful  God . ' '  The  Native  Assistants  then  sang  the  last  verse 
of  the  hymn  u  0  Haupt  roll  Blut  und  Wunden."  He  often  join- 
ed, rested  a  little,  wished  to  sit  up,  opened  his  mouth  from  which 
for  72  years  so  much  doctrine  and  consolation  and  so  much 
hearty  prayer  had  poured  forth  and  died  in  the  arms  of  his 
faithful  and  grateful  Native  Assistants  at  4  o'clock  in  the  after- 
noon. The  weeping  and  sobbing  of  the  people  in  the  two  Chris- 
tian pillages  was  most  touching;  they  were  close  to  his  garden 
and  we  could  hear  it  all  through  the  night.  The  grief  was  uni- 
versal at  the  loss  of  their  teacher,  comforter,  instructor,  bene- 
factor, counsellor,  pastor.  It  was  not  only  we,  the  congrega- 
tions, the  schools  and  the  Missions  who  had  lost  a  father,  but 
the  whole  country.  Wherever  he  was  known,  tears  were  fall- 
ing. The  following  afternoon  his  body  was  lowered  into  the 
grave  which  had  been  prepared  in  the  garden  near  the  church. 
Serfogee,  his  pupil  and  Prince  of  Tanjore,  came  to  look  at  him 
once  again  before  the  coffin  was  closed,  wetted  him  with  tears 
and  followed  him  to  his  grave.  The  Native  Assistants  wished  to 
carry  the  coffin,  but  as  that  duty  had  been  assigned  to  Euro- 
peans the  day  before,  no  change  was  made.  They  wished  to 
sing  a  hymn  on  the  way,  but  the  grief  of  the  people  made  it 
impossible.  A  hymn  was  sung  in  the  church  both  before  and 
after  the  burying,  and  when  the  English  had  gone,  the  Natives 
sang  a  hymn  and  expected  a  discourse  from  me,  but  I  could 
scarcely  speak  more  than  a  few  words  and  needed  all  my  strength 
for  reading  the  prayers.  The  servant  of  the  departed  stood  near 
me  and  said  in  a  low  voice  "  Now  is  our  beloved  gone ! '  This 
went  to  my  heart;  for  this  was  not  the  saying  of  one,  but  of 
many,  old  and  young,  high  and  low,  friends  and  strangers,  Chris- 
tians and  Heathens,  all  spoke  alike.  When  I  had  dressed  again, 


—     231     — 

I  went  to  the  Prince  who  stifl.  remained  near  and  tried  to  con- 
sole him.  The  principal  servant  of  the  widowed  Qneen  begged 
me  to  go  to  her  to  console  her,  but  she  lived  too  far  away.  The 
next  morning  we  all  went  to  the  Surgeon  and  thanked  him  for 
the  kindness  that  he  had  shown  to  the  departed  in  his  last  ill- 
ness. I  looked  through  the  papers  that  were  left,  in  order  to 
fulfill  the  will  and  found  that  the  Tanjore  Mission  with  the  poor 
and  the  institutions  belonging  to  it,  had  been  left  his  heirs.  In 
the  afternoon  I  talked  and  prayed  with  the  Assistants.  Towards 
evening  the  native  congregation  assembled  in  the  church  and 
wished  to  hear  a  discourse.  I  took  the  words  of  the  dying  Jacob, 
"I  die,  but  God  is  with  you."  I  mentioned  much  what  the  de- 
parted Schwartz  had  said  about  the  congregation  and  about 
his  hopes  that  the  kingdom  of  Christ  would  come;  I  sought  to 
awaken  them  to  show  the  same  spirit  as  ho  had  done,  whose 
grave  was  now  before  us.  The  next  day  I  prayed  with  the  bre- 
thren and  departed." 

So  far  Gericke.  Two  monuments  were  erected  to  Schwartz; 
one  in  Madras  at  the  expence  of  the  English  Society  which  he 
served,  with  a  Latin  inscription:  —  it  was  placed  in  the  Fort 
Church,  and  consecrated  by  Dr.  Kerr  in  1807  with  a  sermon 
on  1  Sam.  II.  30.  " Them  that  honour  me  I  will  honour."  The 
other  monument  was  erected  by  the  King  of  Tanjore  in  the 
church  in  his  capital.  Tie  wrote  a  letter  on  this  occasion  to  the 
English  Society,  which  ran  thus : — 
"Gentlemen! 

I  have  asked  your  Missionaries  to  write  to  you,  their  lead- 
ers and  friends,  to  ask  you  in  my  name  to  procure  a  marble 
monument  which  may  be  erected  in  their  church  in  my  prin- 
cipal city  and  residence,  to  keep  up  the  remembrance  of  the  de- 
parted revered  Father   Schwartz,  and  to  testify  the  extreme 


—     232     — 

respect  with  which  I  regard  the  character  of  that  great  and  good 
man,  and  the  gratitude  which  I  owe  to  my  father,  my  friend, 
the  protector  and  guardian  of  my  youth.  I  therefore  take  the 
liberty  of  addressing  you  and  begging  you  to  procure  such  a 
monument  at  my  expence  and  to  send  it  to  me,  that  it  may  be 
fastened  to  the  pillar  which  is  nearest  to  the  pulpit  where  he 
used  to  preach.  The  pillar  is  about  two  yards  broad.  0  Gentle- 
men! that  you  were  but  able  to  send  Missionaries  here  who 
should  resemble  the  departed  Schwartz. 

Serfogee  Rajah." 
Tanjore,  28th  May  1801. 

The  monument  was  the  work  of  the .  celebrated  Flaxman. 
It  is  a  bas-relief,  on  which  the  King  of  Tanjore  is  represented 
paying  his  last  visit  to  Schwartz:  some  of  his  ministers  and 
three  boys  from  the  school  which  Schwartz  had  superintended  • 
for  so  many  years,  follow  him.     The  inscription  is  in  English. 

I  must  confess  that  not  one  of  those,  whose  acquaintance 
I  have  made  in  studying  the  history  of  the  Tranquebar  Mission, 
is  so  dear  to  my  heart  as  Schwartz.  I  have  followed  him  through 
the  long  space  of  50  years,  have  read  many  of  his  letters  and 
many  accounts  of  him,  and  from  beginning  to  end  he  is  always 
the  same,  upright,  humble  and  untiring  in  his  Master's  service. 
It  has  often  struck  me  as  remarkable  that  all  agree  in  speaking 
of  him  with  respect,  love  and  admiration.  His  employers,  his 
colleagues,  his  scholars,  his  congregation,  Germans  and  Danes, 
Englishmen  and  Hindus,  Christians  and  Heathens,  high  and 
low,  are  unanimous  in  honouring  him.  Amongst  the  many 
opinions  that  have  been  passed  on  him  during  his  many  years  of 
usefulness,  not  one  voice  has  said,  u  Schwartz  is  not  fitted  for 
his  position."     The  servants  of  Christ  cannot  generally  rejoice 


—     233     — 

in  such  universal  approbation;  indeed  it  is  not  promised  to  them, 
for  our  Lord  has  said  to  his  people,  "if  the  world  has  hated  me, 
it  will  hate  you  also."  Neither  Ziegenbalg  nor  Griindler  won 
such  general  love  as  Schwartz  and  the  question  naturally  sug- 
gests itself:  did  he  belong  to  those  weak  characters  who  will 
not  speak  the  truth,  and  who  therefore  repel  less  than  those  who 
call  everything  by  its  right  name?  To  the  best  of  my  belief  I 
must  answer,  No.  He  did  not  belong  to  those  timid  characters 
who  anxiously  turn  their  cloaks  towards  the  wind,  and  always 
ask  what  people  will  say  and  what  they  may  gain  or  lose  by 
their  approbation.  His  history,  even  the  short  account  of  it 
which  has  been  given  here,  abundantly  proves,  that  he  never 
feared  to  give  his  testimony  to  the  truth,  even  where  it  might 
prove  offensive;  but  he  did  not  give  his  testimony  only  in  words, 
but  in  his  whole  conduct,  which  was  so  remarkable  for  purity 
and  love  that  it  could  not  fail  to  win  respect.  We  often  think 
that  we  are  suffering  for  the  sake  of  truth,  when,  if  we  examine 
closely,  we  shall  find  that  we  are  suffering  for  our  sins,  which 
contradict  the  very  Gospel  we  are  preaching.  If  we  walked 
more  in  the  lio;ht,  our  amiable  conduct  in  the  Lord  would  win 
souls  without  preaching,  and  this  was  the  case  with  Schwartz. 
It  is  not  said  only  of  our  Lord  and  Saviour  that  he  grew  as  in 
stature  so  in  favour  with  God  and  man,  but  it  is  also  said 
of  Samuel  (1  Sam.  II.  26)  that  he  was  pleasing  to  both,  and 
therefore  I  think  that  though  Christians  should  not  of  course 
be  anxious  for  the  approbation  of  man,  they  should  not  make 
themselves  uneasy  if  the  world  praises  them,  only  they  must 
not  build  their  content  on  these  praises,  but  remember  that  the 
world  really  loves  her  own  servants  only,  so  that  its  applause 
and  approbation  may  change  as  easily  as  the  wind.  But  Schwartz 
belonged  to  the  few  amongst  earnest  Christians  and  witnesses 

18 


—     234     — 

to  the  truth,  who  escape  the  calumny  and  blame  of  the  world, 
and  truly  I  think  because  he  knew  how  to  bear  praise,  and  could 
preserve  the  blossom  of  humility  unfaded. 

In  another  respect  it  is  much  more  difficult  for  me  to  defend 
Schwartz.  He  died  a  rich  man.  There  is  an  old  proverb  which 
says,  "The  niggard  has  money,"  or  more  mildly,  "The  careful 
man  has  money,"  and  I  should  be  very  unwilling  that  Schwartz 
should  lie  in  his  grave  with  the  reputation  of  one  who  was  too 
careful  to  use  the  money  which  he  had,  but  rather  laid  it  out 
to  interest;  for  he  was  supported  by  the  benevolence  of  Europe- 
an friends  to  the  Mission,  and  certainly  had  opportunity  enough 
for  spending  all  the  money  that  he  might  receive  for  the  public 
good  in  India.  I  cannot  deny  that  after  so  often  taking  pleasure 
in  Schwartz's  contentedness  aud  unselfishness,  and  in  seeing 
how  all  parties  hastened  to  assist  him,  I  was  very  much  sur- 
prised when  I  learned  that  he  had  left  a  considerable  property 
behind  him,  which  he  had  not  brought  with  him  to  India  or 
gained  by  inheritance,  but  had  accumulated  by  degrees;  and  I 
was  not  at  all  satisfied  with  his  having  left  his  property  to  the 
Mission  and  to  the  poor,  because  why  should  he  have  had  it  at 
all?  I  cannot  answer  this  quite  satisfactorily,  but  will  not  keep 
back  what  may  be  adduced.  We  must  remember  that  the  close 
of  Schwartz's  fife  embraces  a  period  when  the  zeal  for  Missions 
was  growing  cold  in  consequence  of  increasing  infidelity,  and 
that  the  subscribers  were  diminishing  every  year:  this  would 
suggest  the  idea  that  the  Missions  in  India  might  be  entirely 
given  up  by  their  European  friends,  and  Schwartz  might  pro- 
bably wish  therefore  to  collect  a  fund  from  what  he  could  spare 
from  time  to  time.  He  gave  up  the  care  of  his  money  affairs  to 
his  friends  in  Madras,  and  once  lost  all  that  he  possessed  (as  we 
shall  describe  when  wc  come  to  speak  of  Missionary  Fabricius) , 


—     235     — 

but  lie  found  such  skilful  managers  in  Gericke  and  Breithaupt 
(sl  son  of  the  Missionary)  that  his,  or  rather  the  Mission 
property,  increased  to  a  considerable  capital,  which  is  easily 
explained  by  the  high  rate  of  interest  in  India.  There  are  many 
proofs  that  Schwartz  really  considered  his  property  as  belonging 
to  the  Mission;  he  says  expressly  in  his  will,  "  Though  my  rela- 
tions have  no  claim  on  what  I  leave  and  which  is  dedicated  to  the 
use  of  the  Mission,  yet  I  'leave  them  as  a  mark  of  my  love, 
500  star  -  pagodas,  to  be  divided  in  equal  portions  amongst  the 
children  of  my  brothers  and  sisters. ' 

I  will  conclude  with  an  extract  from  a  speech,  made  by  an 
English  clergyman,  Dr.  Vincent,  in  the  name  of  the  Society  to 
Missionary  Janicke  when  he  entered  their  service  in  the  year 
1788,  and  was  about  to  leave  for  India.  "Whatever  may  have 
been  wanting  in  our  advice  and  exhortation,  it  is  the  express  wish 
of  the  Society  that  you  should  order  your  conduct  according  to 
the  example  of  Mr.  Schwartz.  This  excellent  Missionary,  this 
worthy  man  and  labourer  in  Jesus  Christ  has  won  for  himself 
such  fame  for  sincerity,  uprightness  and  unselfishness  both  a- 
mongst  Europeans  and  Natives,  that  the  cause  of  Christianity 
is  recommended  to  all  classes  who  hear  his  name.  We  are  sure 
of  this,  not  only  from  various  incidents  for  which  we  have  the 
best  authority,  but  from  the  unanimous  testimony  of  all  those 
who  have  returned  from  India.  We  are  assured  by  a  soldier* 
that  "the  intelligence  and  uprightness  of  this  blameless  Mis- 
sionary have  rescued  the  European  character  from  the  imputation 
of  universal  corruption. ' '  This  testimony  from  the  pen  of  a  warrior, 
under  circumstances  which  preclude  all  partiality  and  precon- 
ceived opinions  is  higher  praise  than  all  that  we  could  give  him. 


♦Colonel  Fullarton's  "View  of  English  interests  in  India;"—  Ed.  2.  P.  183. 

18* 


—     236     — 

The  conduct  of  this  worthy  Missionary  has  cleared  the  way  for 
all  who  are  to  follow  him;  while  he  disarmed  the  prejudices  of 
the  Natives,  he  won  respect  and  veneration  for  his  profession; 
and  respect  and  veneration  are  necessary  for  any  one  who  wish- 
es to  win  one  soul  to  the  new  doctrine  which  he  teaches," 


CHAPTER   XIV. 

€.   W.    GERICKE.  —  THE  SUBSEQUENT  HISTORY  OF  THE  MISSION  IN 
CUDDALORE,  (KIERNANDER  IN  CALCUTTA)  AND  MADRAS.— 

PALAMCOTTA. 

Next  to  Schwartz  I  know  no  name  in  the  latter  part  of  the 
last  century  which  adorns  the  Mission-history  so  much  as  that 
of  Christian  Wilhelm  Gericke,  and  as  Cuddalore  as  well  as 
Madras  was  the  scene  of  his  labours,  we  may  unite  the  history 
of  these  two  Missions  to  his  name.   Gericke  was  born  at  Colberg 
in  Pomerania  in  the  year  1742;  in  1760  he  went  to  the  Univer- 
sity of  Hallo,  where  he  became  a  teacher  at  the  Orphan-house 
and  inspector  of  the  girl's  school.  In  the  year  1765  he  became 
a  Missionary  in  the  service  of  the  English  society,  was  examined 
and  ordained  at  Wernigerode  and  went  immediately  after  to 
his  home  at  Colberg  to  say  adieu  to  his  family  and  friends- 
Agreeable  as  it  was  to  him  to  be  once  more  with  them  he  was 
much  grieved  that  the  greater  part  of  his  friends  were  quite 
opposed  to  his  journey  and  reproached  his  father  severely  for 
having  given  his  consent  to  it.     His  father  answered  nothing, 
for,  said  he,  these  people  mean  well,  and  only  judge  thus  because 
they  know  no  better.     But  after  Gericke  had  preached  three 
times  and  explained  the  objects  of  his  journey,  all  reproaches 
ceased,  and  his  farewells  were  eased  by  universal  sympathy. 
His  friends  all  said  as  ho  was  going  that  they  should  pray  God 
to  bring  him  back  again,  but  his  father  did  not  join  in  this. 


—     238     — 

Gericke  begged  them  to  make  themselves  quite  easy  on  his 
account,  and  simply  to  pray  to  God  to  conduct  him  to  his  des- 
tination, to  keep  him  there  in  health,  and  to  give  him  a  heart 
full  of  love  to  Jesus  and  of  wisdom  so  that  he  might  not  work 
m  vain,  to  which  his  father  answered,  "  Yes,  that  is  right,  we 
will  do  that."  He  then  went  through  Hamburg  to  England, 
where  he  remained  till  the  early  part  of  the  next  year,  and  then 
began  his  voyage  to  India,  a  voyage  such  as  few  have  made. 
The  ship  experienced  fearful  weather  from  July  till  November 
1766,  and  just  as  she  had  cast  anchor  in  Madras  she  was  ob- 
liged by  a  fresh  gale  to  slip  her  cable,  and  only  escaped  ship-  ' 
wreck  with  the  greatest  difficulty.  She  now  sought  the  open 
sea,  but  the  further  she  went  the  fiercer  was  the  raging  of  the 
storm,  which  lasted  for  32  hours  with  a  roaring  like  the  loud- 
est thunder.  The  sails  were  torn  to  pieces  at  the  very  beginning; 
then  the  mainmast  went  over  the  side  and  next  the  foremast, 
while  water  was  streaming  in  everywhere.  One  of  the  pumps 
broke  to  pieces,  the  other  five  were  choked,  while  the  water  was 
rising  so  high  that  a  man  might  have  been  drowned  in  the  hold. 
Soldiers  and  sailors  then  gave  way.  All  came  on  to  the  upper 
deck,  expecting  the  ship  to  go  to  pieces  and  thus  to  escape 
a  more  horrible  death  below;  but  when  their  troubles  were  thus 
at  their  height,  help  was  near.  The  clouds  were  suddenly  rent, 
like  the  tearing  of  a  garment,  and  there  was  a  calm.  The  light 
of  the  mid-day  sun,  says  Gericke,  had  an  effect  on  us  all  equal 
to  that  of  the  word  "  Pardon"  on  a  culprit  condemned  to  die 
and  already  standing  on  the  place  of  execution.  Cheerfulness 
reigned  throughout  the  ship,  the  pumps  were  put  in  order  and 
water  pumped  out,  but  the  storm  began  anew  and  the  ship  drift- 
ed a  helpless  wreck  at  the  mercy  of  the  winds  and  currents. 
They  could  not  get  back  to  the  Coromandel  coast,  but  thought 


—     239     — 

themselves  very  fortunate  in  reaching  the  Dutch  fort  of  Galle 
in  the  south-west  of  Ceylon.  Gerickc  landed  there,  remained 
some  time  in  Ceylon,  passed  through  Negapatam  and  Tranquebar 
and  arrived  at  Cuddalore  in  June  1767. 

There  is  not  much  to  tell  of  the  history  of  the  Cuddalore 
Mission  since  its  first  foundation,  which  we  have  already  related. 
It  had  often  appeared  as  if  it  were  going  to  flourish,  but  external 
obstacles  were  added  to  internal,  for  the  French  and  English 
were  fighting  for  supremacy  in  India,  and  Cuddalore  shared  in 
the  uncertainties  of  war.  When  the  town  was  threatened  with 
an  attack  from  the  French  in  1746,  Missionary  Geister*  left  it, 
went  first  to  Batavia  and  thence  started  for  Europe,  but  died  on 
his  passage  home.  Missionary  Kiernander  remained  in  Cudda- 
lore, which  successfully  resisted  three  French  attacks  in  the 
two  following  years,  and  received  Huttemann  as  an  assistant  in 

1750. 

I  will  here  relate  an  incident  of  Kiernander's  ministry  in 

Cuddalore,  which  is  characteristic  in  several  ways  and  proves 
what  many  have  cast  a  doubt  on,  that  for  those  who  have  any- 
thing to  lose,  conversion  to  Christianity  is  attended  with  tem- 
poral losses.  In  1745  a  young  man  of  a  respectable  caste,  20 
years  of  age,  came  to  Kiernander  who  instructed  and  baptized  him. 
His  heathen  name  was  Tripulli,  but  he  was  christened  Isaac. 
He  then  wished  to  go  to  Tranquebar,  partly  to  escape  from  the 

*This  Missionary  had  also  left  Cuddalore  in  September  1743  in  obedience  to 
the  directions  of  the  English  Society,  and  had  gone  to  Madras  to  assist  Fabricius 
who  was  alone  there.  I  here  meet  the  first  trace  of  the  disagreements  between  Ger- 
man and  English  in  the  East  India  Missions  which  have  broken  out  in  our  own  times. 
In  1746  the  Tranquebar  Missionaries  in  writing  to  Finkenhagen,  add  this  postscript: 
"Fabricius  writes  to  us  from  Madras,  four  days  ago  Geister  introduced  the  English 
catechism.  The  next  day  I  began  to  take  my  meals  alone,  as  I  had  been  obliged  to 
keep  away  from  the  conference  for  several  weeks."  Francke  in  his  letters  expresses 
himself  much  grieved  at  this  disagreement  between  English  and  German  which  seems 
to  have  been  broken  off  by  the  bombardment  of  Madras,  and  Geister's  journies  to  Cud- 
dalore, Batavia  and  Europe,  fur  one  hears  nothing  of  it  for  many  years. 


—     240     ~ 

anger  of  his  heathen  brother,  partly  to  be  able  to  receive  further 
Christian  instruction  in  peace,  for  which  Kiernander  gave  him 
a  letter  of  recommendation  to  the  Missionaries  there.  But  now 
a  tumult  arose.  His  heathen  brother,  Rangen  by  name,  made  a 
complaint  against  Kiernander  with  the  Governor  declaring  that 
he  had  enticed  his  brother  and  sent  him  away.  Not  satisfied  there- 
with he  got  together  300  of  his  relations  and  friends  who  assembled 
round  the  Mission  house,  crying  out  that  Rangen's  brother 
must  be  restored  and  his  baptism  taken  away,  else  they  would 
do  something  that  neither  the  Governor  nor  the  Missionaries 
would  like.  Kiernander  was  not  at  all  alarmed,  but  went  out 
to  them  and  assured  them  that  he  was  very  much  pleased  to 
see  so  many  of  them  together  as  it  gave  him  the  opportunity 
of  preaching  the  Christan  religion  to  them,  and  he  only  hoped 
that  they  would  receive  his  instruction.  On  this  some  cried 
out  that  they  had  not  come  there  to  be  instructed,  but  to  carry 
out  their  intentions  which  they  had  already  announced  to  him: 
on  this  Kiernander  represented  how  unreasonable  they  were 
as  they  must  know  that  Isaac  was  not  his  brother's  slave,  but 
that  according  to  their  own  customs  he  might  leave  his  brother 
and  require  his  own  portion  of  their  patrimony  whenever  he 
pleased :  that  his  journey  to  Tranquebar  had  been  undertaken 
entirely  of  his  own  free  will  and  that  he  certainly  would  not  wish 
to  have  his  baptism  taken  from  him  as  he  held  it  in  the  high- 
est honour. .  Some  were  convinced  by  these  representations  and 
went  away,  but  others  said  that  unless  they  had  what  they  want- 
ed, they  would  lie  down  by  the  Mission  house  till  they  died. 
Kiernander  told  them  that  he  should  be  very  glad  if  they  would 
remain  and  listen  to  his  instructions.  Soon  after  they  all  went 
away,  but  laid  the  complaint  before  the  Governor  the  next  day, 
who,  finding  that  Isaac  had  acted  entirely  on  his  own  free-will 


—     241     — 

would  not  interfere.  The  storm  then  abated,  Isaac  became  an 
able  catechist,  and  was  an  active  member  of  the  congregation 
for  many  years,  while  the  bitterness  of  his  heathen  relations  so 
far  abated  that  he  was  allowed  to  divide  in  equal  shares  with  his 
brother  the  inheritance  which  their  father  had  left  them,  consist- 
ing of  a  house  and  a  piece  of  land.  Isaac  however  did  not  wish 
it  to  be  divided  but  left  the  use  of  the  property  to  his  brother,  even 
contributing  his  share  towards  the  repairs  of  the  house.  But  when 
his  brother  died  in  1768,  the  heathen  relations  refused  to  give 
Isaac  his  share,  saying  that  he  could  not  hold  property  as  he 
was  a  Christian  and  had  lost  his  caste.  The  Missionaries  tried 
in  vain  to  get  any  redress  for  him  from  the  English  authorities; 
even  a  Member  of  Council,  who  was  very  much  in  their  favour, 
thought  that  there  was  nothing  to  be  done.  "In  this  case  the 
laws  of  the  Natives  must  be  followed;  and  if  they  had  a  law  that 
any  who  had  lost  his  caste  could  not  inherit,  so  the  English  had 
a  similar  one  that  any  one  joining  the  Romish  Church  could 
not  inherit.  One  must  be  impartial,  and  the  Natives  who  be- 
come Christians,  must  be  prepared  to  give  up  everything." 
Isaac  therefore  did  not  receive  any  portion  of  his  inheritance, 
but  he  was  just  as  well  satisfied  as  if  he  had  done  so. 

In  May  1758  Cuddalore  was  at  last  taken  by  the  French. 
Missionaries  Huttemann  and  Kiernander  received  permission  to 
leave  the  town  with  their  own  property  and  that  belonging  to 
the  Mission,  and  a  great  part  of  the  congregation  followed  them 
to  Tranquebar,  where  Huttemann  remained  for  two  years  until 
he  was  able  to  return.  Kiernander  on  the  contrary  carried 
out  a  long-talked-of  plan  of  founding  a  Mission  in  Calcutta, 
whither  he  went  in  1759,  but  though  it  seemed  to  begin  well, 
there  were  many  obstacles  and  it  was  never  firmly  established. 
I  must  stop  here  for  a  few  minutes  to  describe  Kiernander's 


—     242     — 

personal  and  public  character,  and  think  it  best  first  to  give  the 
account  which  was  published  at  Halle  after  his  death. 

Kiernander  was  born  in  East-Gothland  in  1710;  he  first 
studied  at  Upsal  and  went  to  Halle  in  1735,  to  complete  his 
theological  studies.  Here  he  was  made  Inspector  of  the  German 
and  afterwards  of  the  Latin  school  at  the  Orphan-house,  and  in 
1739  he  accepted  the  calling  of  a  Missionary  to  Cuddalore,  where 
he  was  soon  rewarded  by  flourishing  Hindu  and  Portuguese 
conoreo-ations.  When  he  was  driven  out  from  Cuddalore  on  its 
being  taken  by  the  French,  he  went  to  Calcutta,  and  soon  suc- 
ceeded in  attracting  a  congregation,  which  increased  year  by 
year.  All  went  on  as  well  as  could  be  wished;  he  was  a  blessing 
to  his  congregation,  and  from  his  uprightness,  unselfishness  and 
humility  won  universal  love  and  respect.  In  the  year  1774 
Missionary  Diemer  was  sent  to  assist  him,  and  in  1778  Gerlach 
joined  him  from  Tranquebar;  but  by  his  (second)  marriage  he 
became  a  man  of  so  much  property  that  he  was  considered  one 
of  the  richest  capitalists  in  Bengal.  The  Mission  had  until  then 
struggled  against  great  poverty,  and  he  proved  his  earnest  de- 
sire to  make  good  use  of  his  temporal  gifts  by  building  at  his 
own  expense  a  Church,  a  large  school  -  house,  and  a  residence 
for  two  Missionaries;  indeed  it  was  calculated  that  he  had  de- 
voted 100,000  Rupees  to  the  Mission.  But  by  degrees  his  wealth 
brought  him  in  contact  with  many  rich  and  fashionable  people 
who  did  him  much  harm.  His  mind  seemed  to  be  more  and 
more  set  on  earthly  things,  while  his  grandeur  and  extrava- 
gance exhausted  his  property.  To  put  a  stop  to  this,  he  built  a 
great  many  houses  though  he  was  obliged  to  borrow  money  for 
the  purpose,  hoping  thus  to  retrieve  his  fortunes,  as  house-rent 
was  very  high  in  Bengal.  But  this  undertaking,  by  which 
many  of  the  English  had  enriched  themselves,  failed  in  his 


—     243     — 

case;  he  was  completely  ruined  and  was  obliged,  at  the  age  of 
78,  to  leave  Calcutta,  and  take  refuge  in  the  Dutch  settlement 
of  Chinsura.  Here  he  spent  the  remainder  of  his  days  in  pover- 
ty and  useful  activity,  and  recognised  it  as  a  great  mercy  from 
God  that  he  had  been  humbled  and  saved  from  the  snares  which 
had  held  him  captive,  and  here  he  died  in  the  year  1799  in  con- 
sequence of  breaking  a  leg. 

So  far  the  Halle  Report  as  given  after  his  death;  but  if  we 
turn  to  the  opposite  side  and  follow  both  English  and  German 
accounts  during  a  series  of  years  we  find  a  most  encouraging 
account  of  the  progress  of  the  Mission,  an  excellent  report  of 
Kiernander's  activity  and  benevolence,  and  of  his  success  in 
converting  a  Roman  -  catholic  priest,  Pater  Bento,  who  finally 
became  his  assistant;  the  English  Report  of  1786  speaks  of  the 
increase  of  the  congregation  amongst  Bengalees,  Malays  &c,  and 
that  of  1787  of  his  conversations  with  Bengalees  and  Moham- 
medans. After  reading  all  this  how  surprised  are  we  then  in  1788 
to  find  it  mentioned  (p.  278)  that  from  age  and  weakness  he 
has  been  obliged  to  give  up  the  service  of  the  Mission  and  has 
sold  the  church  and  church-yard  with  the  school  to  the  Revd. 
Mr.  Brown  and  Messrs.  Chambers  and  Grant,  who  have  taken 
the  charge  of  the  congregation  upon  themselves  until  the  Society 
shall  send  another  Missionary.  The  above-mentioned  Brown 
writes  immediately  after,  that  according  to  all  that  he  can  learn 
of  the  other  Missionaries  of  the  Society,  they  are  faithful  men, 
full  of  zeal  and  good  works;  but  his  remarks  on  the  Mission  in 
Calcutta  are  not  flattering.  The  English  and  German  accounts 
agree  as  to  the  cause  of  the  breaking  up  of  everything  in  Cal- 
cutta. A  Mr.  Owen,*  who  had  formerly  been  a  Chaplain,  says 

*He  is  said  to  have  returned  to  England  after  a  10  years'  residence  in  India 
with  2J  lakhs  of  Rupees. 


—     244     — 

on  a  later  occasion,  "Some,  who  formerly  took  an  active  part  in 
these  things,  were  seized  with  an  unfortunate  desire  to  grow  rich, 
and  fell  into  temptations  and  snares.  I  knew  two  Missionaries 
with  noble  talents  and  of  excellent  character  in  other  respects, 
who  allowed  themselves  to  be  led  into  such  earthly  troubles  by 
the  avaricious  Natives,  that  they  only  ended  with  their  lives. 
In  the  East,  as  everywhere  else,  there  are  lawful  gains  for  every 
one  in  their  different  positions;  but  in  truth,  those  Missionaries 
ought  to  have  known  that  when  a  Priest  has  food  and  clothing 
he  should  not  require  any  further  gains." 

Owen's  words  no  doubt  allude  to  Kiernander  as  one  of  the 
Missionaries,  but  I  do  not  know  who  the  other  can  be;  perhaps 
Diemer,  or  Pater  Bento,  or  if  Owen  was  acquainted  with  Ma- 
dras, it  may  have  been  the  old  Missionary  Fabricius  (!?),  of 
whom  we  shall  have  more  to  say  hereafter.  A  strange  ill-fortune 
pursued  the  Calcutta  Mission,  which  would  seem  to  prove,  that 
there  must  have  been  something  unsound  in  the  bud.  Diemer 
left  Calcutta  in  1785,  visited  Tranquebar  and  returned  to  Eng- 
land. The  Tranquebar  Missionaries  say  of  this,  "Herr  Diemer 
came  here  on  the  12th  of  January  with  Captain  Clemens,  and 
went  away  on  the  31st  to  England  with  his  little  son,  in  order 
to  lay  the  state  of  the  Bengal  Mission  before  the  Society  in 
England,  and  to  make  some  new  arrangements.  Such  a  repre- 
sentation ought  to  be  very  useful  from  one  who  has  had  so  many 
years  experience  of  the  real  wants  of  the  Mission  and  who  has 
devoted  himself  so  entirely  to  it,  but  yet  we  doubt  whether  the 
right  aim  will  be  attained,  as  Diemer,  from  ignorance  of  the 
language,  could  not  take  part  in  the  care  of  the  Portuguese  con- 
gregation, and  not  one  (?)  of  the  Missionaries  there  has  studi- 
ed the  native  language." 

Such  was  Diemer :  and  the  sad  fate  of  Pater  Bento  and 


—     245     — 

Gerlach  is  best  shown  by  a  little  note  (dated  26.  Dec.  1788) 
from  the  latter  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Mission-College,  "lean- 
not  unfortunately  give  you  any  more  agreeable  accounts  from 
here.  The  Mission  is  in  the  most  pitiable  state,  and  appears  to 
have  been  quite  abandoned  by  the  English  Society  for  the  last 
six  years.  No  money  has  been  received  during  that  time.  Pater 
Bento  died  in  great  poverty  and  in  miserable  circumstances. 
Kiernander  has  been  obliged  to  leave  Calcutta  on  account  of  his 
debts,  and  has  taken  refuge  at  Chinsura.  I  have  been  obliged 
to  support  myself  by  making  almanacs."  One  year  later  Ger- 
lach  died;  he  had  come  out  originally  to  assist  Missionary  John 
in  his  schools  at  Tranquebar,  but  as  he  did  not  give  satisfaction 
he  went  to  Bengal.  John  says  of  him  that  he  might  have  been 
a  great  school  -  man  in  Europe,  but  that  he  had  not  the  small- 
est talent  for  teaching  Indo-european  children.  The  English 
Society  now  determined  to  send  an  Englishman  to  Calcutta,  and 
sent  out  a  clergyman  of  the  name  of  Clarke,  but  he  had  scarcely 
reached  his  destination  before  he  gave  up  the  service  of  the 
Society.  They  then  had  recourse  to  the  Germans  again,  and 
sent  Bingeltaube  to  Calcutta  in  1796;  but  he  was  soon  tired  of 
it  and  returned  to  England  in  1799.  This  is  the  more  surpris- 
ing as  he  was  a  clever  man,  and  was  afterwards  very  active 
in  the  service  of  the  London  Missionary  Society.  At  the  close 
of  the  century  the  Calcutta  Mission  was  empty  and  deserted. 

We  will  now  return  to  Cuddalore,  where  Huttemann  was 
alone  from  1760  to  1767,  when  Gericke  who  afterwards  became 
his  son-in-law,  joined  him.  Gericke  worked  diligently  for  ten 
years,  but  just  as  the  Mission  was  beginning  to  prosper,  war 
broke  out  again;  indeed  a  double  war  both  with  Hyder  Ali  and 
with  the  French.  A  very  trying  time  followed  both  for  the 
Missionaries  in  Cuddalore  and  for  their  congregations.     Ther« 


—     246     — 

were  wars  and  rumours  of  war,  famine,  sickness,  and  all  those 
calamities  which  are  sure  to  follow  wherever  war  rages.  Hiitte- 
mann  died  in  the  midst  of  these  troubles  in  1781,  and  one  year 
after  the  town  fell  into  the  hands  of  the  French.  Gericke  was 
attacked  with  a  very  dangerous  illness,  and  his  native  assistants 
were  in  such  a  state  of  fear  that  he  received  very  little  assis- 
tance from  them.  We  will  let  him  speak  for  himself  in  one  of 
his  letters.  "An  English  prisoner  of  war  is  about  to  be  sent  to 
France  and  therefore  I  have  an  opportunity  of  informing  you 
in  a  hurry,  that  Cuddalore  has  been  in  the  hands  of  the  French 
since  the  3rd  of  April.  Since  then  it  has  pleased  God  to  reduce 
us  even  lower  than  we  were  before.  Only  two  of  the  native 
school-children  remain;  the  rest  are  all  dead.  An  epidemic  fever 
has  carried  off  one  third  of  our  congregation,  while  I  was  my- 
self lying  on  what  was  supposed  to  be  my  dying  bed  from  the  same 
disease.  Tirusiluwei  left  me  last  year  in  our  troubles.  Isaac, 
who  loses  his  presence  of  mind  in  danger  and  cannot  keep  up 
under  difficulties,  is  gone  to  Tranquebar.  Rayappen  is  in  weak 
health,  and  suffers  much  from  the  wretched  food  with  which  he 
has  had  to  support  himself  for  the  last  year  and  a  half.  Manuel 
visits  the  few  remaining  Christians  with  great  diligence,  and 
talks  much  with  the  heathen,  but  gets  no  encouragement.  The 
English  schoolmaster  is  always  sickly,  but  perseveres.  Our 
Church  was  changed  into  a  powder-magazine  directly  the  town 
was  taken,  and  the  poor  assistants  who  live  near  the  Church 
have  not  been  able  to  have  any  fire  in  their  houses  since  then, 
nor  even  dared  to  light  a  lamp  and  yet  they  cannot  get  any 
other  house.  We  hold  the  Tamil  service  in  the  school,  and  the 
Portuguese  in  my  house,  where  we  also  continue  to  have  the 
English;  for  besides  my  own  family  there  are  many  English  pri- 
soners of  war  here  who  attend  Divine  Worship.     The  garden, 


—     247     — 

which  we  thought  would  have  produced  well,  is  laid  quite  waste, 
and  now  the  trees  that  remain  will  probably  be  all  cut  down,  as 
a  battery  is  to  be  built  on  this  side.  The  houses  in  which  the 
late  Herr  Huttemann  lived  have  been  taken  possession  of  by  the 
French: — in  other  respects  the  officers  have  behaved  very  well 
towards  me.  General  Duchemin  received  me  in  a  very  friendly 
way,  when  I  went  out  to  him  in  the  camp,  before  the  place  was 
given  up.  Hyder's  troops  wished  for  Cuddalore  as  much  as  the 
French  did,  and  our  not  falling  into  the  hands  of  that  tyrant 
has  been  attributed  to  my  intercession  with  the  General.  The 
French  have  always  listened  kindly  to  my  requests  for  others, 
particularly  for  the  English  prisoners  and  have  assisted  me  when- 
ever it  was  possible.  Admiral  S unrein  has  written  a  very  kind 
answer  to  a  letter  I  addressed  to  him,  and  the  Governor  in 
Cuddalore  always  seems  pleased  to  be  able  to  fulfil  my  wishes. 
Yet  we  are  in  a  very  unpleasant  position.  The  scarcity  is  in- 
creasing, and  the  whole  country  has  become  a  desert.  At  least 
three  quarters  of  the  inhabitants  have  fallen  by  the  sword,  hunger 
or  disease.  I  have  heard  nothing  from  my  brethren  and  friends 
in  Madras,  and  very  little  from  Tranquebar,  and  the  misery  is 
so  great  everywhere  that  on  the  whole  it  seems  best  that  I  should 
continue  my  work  here.  God  has  hitherto  protected  us  wonder- 
fully, and  he  will  continue  to  do  so.  It  is  a  time  of  suffering." 
Gericke  did  not  however  keep  his  resolution  of  remaining 
in  Cuddalore  through  all  difficulties,  but  lived  a  wandering  life 
until  1788,  when  he  settled  in  Madras;  he  was  sometimes  at 
Madras,  sometimes  at  Cuddalore,  but  principally  at  Negapatam, 
whence  he  could  superintend  the  Cuddalore  Mission,  which  was 
first  conducted  by  Natives,  and  afterwards  by  Horst  who  was 
there  at  first  as  a  Reader,  was  ordained  in  1806,  but  died  in  1810. 
His  successor  was  Holzberg,  a  clever  but  immoral  man,  who  died 


—     248     — 

in  1824.  After  him  came  David  Rosen  who  is  still  living  in  Den- 
mark  as  Pastor  in  Lille  Lyndby  in  the  Bishopric  of  Seeland; 
and  at  the  present  time  (1842)  the  Cuddalore  Mission  is  for  the 
first  time  nnder  the  charge  of  an  Englishman;  his  name  is  Jones. 
Having  thus  taken  a  brief  view  of  its  history  and  with  the  re- 
mark that  it  never  displayed  great  activity,  we  will  return  to 
Gericke,  and  relate  the  history  of  the  Madras  Mission  (of  which 
he  undertook  the  charge  in  1788)  from  the  time  when  its  found- 
er, Benjamin  Schultze,  left  it  to  return  to  Europe. 

This  time,  from  1742  to  1788,  is  occupied  by  one  man, 
Joliann  Philipp  Fabricius^  who,  though  originally  intended  for 
the  Danish  Mission  in  Tranquebar,  received  permission  after  he 
had  been  a  few  years  in  India,  to  enter  the  service  of  the  Eng- 
lish Society;  he  went  to  Madras,  thus  enabling  Schultze  to  return 
to  Europe,  and  during  the  long  series  of  years  that  he  remain- 
ed there  was  principally  assisted  by  Missionary  Breithaupty 
from  1749  to  1782. 

Fabricius  was  a  skilful  and  learned  manager  for  the  Ma- 
dras Mission  as  long  as  he  retained  his  youthful  vigour.  His 
thorough  acquaintance  with  the  native  languages  was  acknow- 
ledged, and  his  lexicographical  labours  deserve  praise,  but  his 
particular  gift  lay  in  translating  hymns  into  Tamil.  His  trans- 
lations were  used  in  all  the  congregations  and  are  still  famed 
as  being  really  excellent.  But  the  Madras  Mission  shared  the 
same  fate  as  that  in  Cuddalore  in  suffering  much  from  the  war 
between  the  French  and  English.  In  the  year  1746  Madras  was 
taken  by  the  French.  The  Mission-house  was  pulled  down,  and 
Fabricius  with  the  catechists  and  school  -  children  took  refuge 
at  Paleacatta  (Pulicat)  which  belonged  to  the  Dutch,  and  where 
they  met  with  a  very  kind  reception.  In  1749  they  were  able 
to  return  to  Madras,  where  everything  was  in  a  state  of  de- 


—     249     — 

solation,  and  tliey  hastily  erected  a  hut  for  the  school  in  the 
church-yard  which  was  the  only  possession  remaining  to  them. 
The  congregation  assembled  under  some  large  trees  for  Divine 
Service,  and  the  servants  of  the  Mission  were  received  into  pri- 
vate houses.  Thus  they  managed  as  well  as  they  could  and 
waited  for  better  times. 

In  the  year  1752  the  English   Government  gave  up  to 
Fabricius  a  new  and  handsome  Roman  Catholic  Church  with 
all  its  adjoining  buildings;  it  had  been  built  by  an  Armenian 
Romanist  a  few  years  before  in  Vepery,  close  to  Madras,  but, 
on  account  of  treachery  committed,  it  had  been  taken  from  the 
Romanists.     Their  still  more  magnificent  Church  in  the  Fort 
was  pulled  down.      Whoever  knows  anything  of  the  Roman 
Catholic  persecutions  of  the  Madras  Mission,  will  recognize 
a  judgment  in  what  thus  happened  to  the  persecutors,  but  one  does 
not  like  to  see  our  Mission  in  the  possession  of  the  property  of 
others,  neither  is  it  surprising  that  the  possession  of  the  gift  was 
much  embittered  in  later  times.   In  the  year  1 7  5  8  when  war  again 
broke  out,  the  Church  and  Mission-house  were  so  entirely  plun- 
dered that  even  the  clothes  were  taken  from  an  infant  of  Breit- 
haupt's,  and  he  had  to  turn  his  pockets  inside  out  several  times  to 
prove  that  there  was  nothing  in  them.  Both  Missionaries  again 
took  refuge  in  Pulicat,  while  the  French  besieged  Madras,  which 
happily  they  did  not  succeed  in  taking:  on  the  contrary  they  lost 
the  advantages  they  had  already  gained  and  were  obliged  to  give 
up  Pondichery  .to  the  English,  who  took  a  printing-press  on  this 
occasion  which  they  presented  to  the  Mission.   Scarcity  and  fa- 
mine succeeded  the  war,  and  the  town  had  scarcely  begun  to 
recover  when  it  was  troubled  by  Hyder  Ali,  by  the  Mahrattas, 
and  again  by  the  French,  so  that  the  difficulties  of  the  Mission 
were  unceasing.  It  was  blessed  with  conversions  both  amongst 

19 


—     250     — 

Natives  and  Roman  Catholics,  but  it  wanted  rest.  Breitliaupt 
died  in  1782  in  the  midst  of  their  greatest  trials,  and  Fabricius 
had  become  weak  from  old  age  and  fatigues.  This  weakness 
in  an  otherwise  upright  and  unselfish  man  had  shown  itself  sad- 
ly before  Breithaupt's  death  in  great  disorder  in  his  accounts. 

In  the  year  1778  Schwartz  and  Gfericke  had  both  gone  to 
Tranquebar  to  assist  the  Missionaries  there  in  the  ordination  of 
the  Native  priest  Rayappen;  but  immediately  after  the  ordination 
Schwartz  was  obliged  to  go  to  Madras  for  a  very  sad  reason,  for  Fa- 
bricius had  been  induced  by  a  native  Canacapoly  to  lend  large 
sums  of  money  which  had  been  intrusted  to  his  care  to  the  son- 
in-law  of  the  Nabob  and  other  natives  of  high  rank  without  suf- 
ficient security.  No  Missionary,  not  even  his  colleague  Breit- 
liaupt, had  been  informed  of  his  proceedings.  Schwartz  found  that 
he  was  quite  unable  to  repay  anything  on  his  own  account,  and 
that  the  money  which  had  been  confided  to  him  must  be  con- 
sidered as  completely  lost.  The  Tranquebar  Mission  lost  2000 
Pagodas,  the  Trichinopoly  Mission  all  that  it  possessed,  which 
Schwartz  had  entrusted  to  Fabricius.  An  angry  letter  to  Fa- 
bricius from  the  Missionaries  followed,  but  he  had  only  empty 
promises  to  offer.  This  loss  caused  much  offence  along  the 
whole  coast. 

Under  these  circumstances  it  was  most  fortunate  that 
Gericke  was  at  hand  that  he  could  first  assist  the  Madras  Mis- 
sion, and  in  1788  take  the  management  of  it,  for  wherever  he 
was,  no  confusion  was  allowed.  In  the  year  1795  Missionary 
John  says  of  him,  "  He  is  not  merely  a  real  blessing  to  the  Mis- 
sion in  Madras,  but  is  the  teacher,  father,  and  counsellor  of 
many  children  and  grown  people  in  Vellore,  Negapatam,  Cud- 
dalore  and  other  places.  T  am  astonished  and  delighted  when 
I  behold  the  labour,  sufferings,  patience,  gentleness  and  earnest 


—     251     — 

piety  of  this  man."  Schwartz  said  of  him,  "He  works  so  hard 
and  in  so  many  places  that  one  cannot  but  wonder  that  he  is 
able  to  go  through  it."  John  admires  his  patience  which  was 
put  to  many  proofs,  not  only  by  outward  obstacles  which  im- 
peded his  career  of  usefulness  for  many  years,  but  by  internal 
dissensions  in  the  congregation  which  caused  him  great  un- 
easiness. It  is  touching  to  see  his  much-enduring  patience  re- 
warded at  last: —  he  had  longed  from  his  earliest  youth  to  win 
souls  of  heathens  to  Christ,  and  for  a  long  course  of  years  he 
worked  in  many  places  with  untiring  zeal,  though  the  impedi- 
ments that  were  raised  against  him  prevented  his  gathering  in 
much  fruit;  the  storms  which  had  beaten  against  his  ship  on  his 
voyage  out  seemed  to  bo  emblems  of  those  which  were  to  rage 
against  himself  when  he  commenced  labouring  in  his  Master's 
service,  but  in  the  latter  part  of  his  life  (1802)  when  it  seem- 
ed as  if  he  had  laboured  in  vain  and  spent  his  strength  to  no 
purpose,  he  was  blessed  with  winning  hundreds  of  souls  to  the 
Church  of  Christ. 

The  southern  point  of  India  from  Palamcotta  and  Mana- 
paar  down  to  Cape  Comorin  had  been  formerly  visited  by  native 
catechists  and  priests  from  Tranquebar;  but  we  have  heard  that 
Schwartz  was  the  first  European  Missionary  who  visited  this  dis- 
trict, that  Janickc  worked  amongst  the  congregations  who  were 
there  assembled,  and  that  the  native  priest  Sattianaden  was  one 
of  the  most  useful  instruments  in  spreading  the  Grospel.  The  na- 
tive priests  and  catechists  had  often  written  to  Tranquebar  de- 
scribing the  ever-increasing  readiness  with  which  the  Grospel  was 
received,  and  the  great  effects  which  might  be  expected  if  a  Mis- 
sionary would  go  there  and  settle  for  a  time  amongst  the  country- 
people;  but  these  accounts  were  considered  as  over-drawn,  the 
journey  was  expensive  and  the  Missionaries  fully  occupied  with 

19* 


—     252     — 

their  congregations.  Gcricke  however  devoted  the  evening;  of 
his  life  to  preaching  the  Gospel  to  the  poor  in  the  southern- 
most point  of  India.  It  is  well  known  that  the  Lutheran  Mis- 
sionaries were  accustomed  to  be  very  careful  and  circumspect 
in  administering  the  rite  of  baptism,  themselves  instructing  those 
who  desired  it.  Gericke  had  acted  thus  hitherto,  but  in  the  extra- 
ordinary and  far-spread  awakening  in  the  South  it  was  not  pos- 
sible to  continue  the  same  plan  of  operations.  We  see  him  go- 
ing from  place  to  place  to  visit  those  who  had  formerly  been 
instructed  by  the  native  priests  and  catechists,  who  had  deter- 
mined on  being  baptized  and  who  had  built  churches  or  had 
changed  their  Pagodas  into  Churches.  He  examined  them,  ex- 
horted  and  then  baptized  them,  placed  elders  over  them,  and 
journeyed  on.  Some  pages  from  his  Diary  for  1802  will  give 
the  reader  the  best  idea  of  what  he  was  doing. 

alst  October.  We  started  after  morning-prayers,  and  ar- 
rived at  Naduwakuritschi,  where  some  Christians  came  to  meet 
us,  amongst  whom  were  some  of  those  who  were  baptized  yes- 
terday at  Mudelur.  We  exhorted  them  as  well  as  the  heathen 
inhabitants,  who  came  out,  and  prayed  with  them.  After  this 
we  went  to  Bethlehem,  a  new  village,  where  there  is  a  Church 
built  by  the  Catechumens  who  have  settled  here,  in  which  bap- 
tism was  to  be  solemnized.  They  assembled  directly,  and  I 
preached  on  the  man  with  the  palsy,  pointing  out  to  them  that 
if  they  truly  accepted  Christ,  he  would  give  them  forgiveness 
of  sins  and  power  to  lead  a  holy  life:  I  told  them  that  they 
should  now  by  faith  in  Jesus  Christ  receive  grace  and  become 
children  of  God.  Their  heathen  names  were  then  written  down 
according  to  their  families,  and  the  new  Christian  names  placed 
beside  them.  Towards  evening  they  assembled  again;  I  then 
preached  on  the  history  of  Cornelius,  and  baptized  203Persoj 


—     253     — 

wlio  belonged  to  48  families.  We  did  it  in  this  way.  The  native 
priest  read  the  Formulary;  after  I  had  asked  them  whether 
they  gave  up  heathenism  from  their  hearts,  believed  in  the 
Christian  truths  and  would  live  according  to  the  same,  one  family 
after  another  were  called  up  by  their  heathen  names.  When 
the  whole  family  was  collected  they  knelt  down  and  I  baptized 
them  in  the  order  in  which  the  catechist  repeated  their  Christian 
names.  It  sometimes  occurred  that  the  head  of  the  family  ad- 
dressed a  few  awakening  words  to  some  member  of  it  about  to 
be  baptized,  which  was  very  affecting.  The  service  altogether 
lasted  from  6  o'clock  in  the  evening  until  midnight.  The  native 
priests  and  catechists  said  "We  have  received  new  life;  such  a 
thing  as  this  has  never  happened  in  this  country  before." 

"October.  2nd.  The  congregation  assembled  again  this 
morning  for  prayers,  and  the  four  elders  whom  they  had  them- 
selves chosen,  were  presented  to  them.  We  visited  several 
Hindus  of  rank,  who  though  they  could  not  exactly  determine 
on  becoming  Christians,  showed  much  pleasure  in  what  they 
had  seen  and  heard.  After  this  we  went  on  to  Nageladi.  All 
was  here  very  much  as  in  the  last  place:  there  was  no  Church 
here,  but  when  the  inhabitants  determined  on  embracing  Chris- 
tianity, they  had  themselves  prepared  their  idol-temple  for  the 
service  of  God.  Here  too  they  have  been  taught  by  the  native 
priests  and  catechists.  I  brought  the  example  of  Lydia  before 
them,  and  then  baptized  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  place,  amount- 
ing to  220  persons  in  53  families.  It  was  11  o'clock  at  night, 
before  the  elders  were  determined  on.  We  then  went  on  to 
Kundali,  where  we  rested  till  morning." 

"  October.  3rd.  The  whole  village  was  waiting  to  hear 
God's  word,  and  to  be  admitted  by  baptism  into  communion 
with  the  Christian  Church.      The  idol  temple  had  been  for 


—     254     — 

some  time  converted  into  a  house  of  prayer.  I  brought  the 
example  of  the  jailor  before  them  in  my  address,  and  after- 
wards baptized  62  families,  consisting  of  248  persons.  The 
whole  service  lasted  from  8  o'clock  in  the  morninff  until  2 
o'clock  in  the  afternoon.  We  then  went  on  to  Karikowil,  where 
in  the  same  way  all  were  awaiting  us,  and  had  already  written 
down  their  names  together  with  the  christian  names  they  wished 
to  be  called  by.  The  Catechist  had  proposed  the  latter  to  them, 
and  they  were,  as  much  as  possible,  similar  in  sound  to  their  former 
names.  .After  an  address  I  baptized  46  families,  consisting  of 
204  persons.  The  service  lasted  from  7  o'clock  till  midnight. 
The  village  consists  of  one  long  street,  at  the  southern  end  of 
which  stands  the  temple,  now  converted  into  a  house  of  prayer. 
It  looked  very  noble  when  the  people  with  their  children  stream- 
ed towards  the  temple  of  God  from  all  the  houses  in  the  vil- 
lage; the  Catechists  and  Christians  from  other  places  who  had 
followed  us  here,  said  when  they  saw  it,  "They  never  used  to 
come  in  this  way,  when  it  was  an  idol-temple.  God  has  brought 
them  to  the  true  Vedas  and  to  baptism." 

"  October.  4th.  The  congregation  assembled  again  in  the 
morning,  and  I  prayed  to  God  for  their  elders,  catechists,  and 
assistants,  whom  I  left  in  this  and  the  neighbouring  villages,  to- 
gether with  a  young  man  educated  in  Vepery.  We  then  went 
on  to  another  village,  Uwari.  These  4  villages  are  on  the 
sea-coast  between  Manapaar  and  Cape  Comorin,  and  the  piece 
of  land  on  which  they  are  built  is  called  Karei-Suttu.  The 
inhabitants  of  Uwari  had  began  only  the  day  before  to  purify 
their  idol -temple  and  to  convert  it  into  a  house  of  prayer. 
They  had  erected  a  covered  room  before  the  temple  and  ex- 
pected an  assemblage  of  500  persons.  But  as  they  had  not  ar- 
rived by  the  afternoon,  I  represented  to  them  how  short  my 


—     255     — 

time  was,  and  advised  them  to  be  baptized  by  the  native  priest, 
or  else  to  go  to  Mudelur  and  there  receive  baptism;  on  this  some 
of  them  came  forward  and  begged  me  to  do  hero  what  I  had 
done  in  the  other  villages.  In  the  afternoon  we  heard  that  a 
wicked  heathen  who  had  already  caused  great  troubles,  and  had 
tried  by  severe  persecution  to  force  the  Mudelur  Christians  back 
to  their  idol- worship,  had  taken  great  pains  to  keep  these  poor 
people  away.  Those  who  were  not  influenced  either  by  his 
threats  or  his  promises  begged  me  to  remain  till  morning.  I  ad- 
dressed them  in  the  evening  on  the  parable  of  the  four  differ- 
ent kinds  of  ground,  and  had  cause  to  rejoice  in  the  attention 
of  the  people." 

"October  5th  we  occupied  with  instruction,  and  the  names 
of  the  inhabitants  together  with  their  new  Christian  names  were 
.written  down.  One  man  came  to  speak  to  me  guarded  by  two 
native  soldiers.  He  had  been  accustomed  to  listen  to  the  teach- 
ing of  one  of  the  Catechists,  but  on  account  of  being  present  at 
the  plundering  of  a  village  three  years  before  he  had  been 
thrown  into  prison.  He  wished  to  be  baptized  as  he  had  gain- 
ed much  knowledge  of  our  religion  by  reading  our  books  whilst 
in  prison.  I  preached  on  the  tares  amongst  the  wheat,  and  then 
23  families,  consisting  of  102  persons,  were  baptized.  I  did  not 
go  to  rest  till  2  o'clock  in  the  morning.1' 

Thus  Gericke,  in  spite  of  bodily  weakness,  travelled  about 
*  sowing  the  seed  of  the  Gospel.  After  he  had  left  the  district  many 
more  heathens  came  forward  to  be  received  into  the  church  of 
Christ,  but  almost  immediately  on  his  return  to  Madras  he  re- 
ceived letters  from  these  very  places,  some  complaining  of  the 
conduct  of  the  native  priests,  the  catechists  and  the  christians, 
and  others  from  the  christians  sighing  under  the  severe  perse- 
cutions to  which  they  were  subjected.     "  In  the  midst  of  my 


—     256     — 

bodily  weakness,"  Gericke  writes  on  the  24th  December,  "  I 
receive  most  grievous  letters  almost  every  day  from  one  or  other 
of  the  suffering  Christians  in  the  South,  and  I  cannot  help  them 
with  letters,  nor  by  returning  to  them.  The  heathens  have  treated 
them  with  all  the  rigour  due  to  those  who  have  lost  their  caste 
from  misconduct.  They  have  forcibly  smeared  their  foreheads 
with  ashes,  they  have  broken  in  armed  into  their  houses  of  pray- 
er on  Sundays,  have  seized  men,  women  and  children,  beaten 
and  imprisoned  them,  plundered  their  houses  &c.  We  must 
wait  in  patience  and  humility  to  see  how  and  through  whom 
God  will  help  them.  I  hope  that  he  will  not  permit  the  enemy 
to  disturb  the  work  which  is  begun;  this  unexpected  and  severe 
persecution  will  purify  our  people  and  their  firmness  will 
cause  others  to  reflect.  I  trust,  that  God  will  give  them  cour- 
age rather  to  suffer  everything  than  to  assist  themselves  by 
unlawful  means." 

The  Tranquebar  Missionaries  write  as  follows  on  this  per- 
secution:—  u Soon  after  the  joy  which  Gericke  spread  amongst 
us  on  his  return  by  his  account  of  the  thousands  who  had  em- 
braced the  Gospel  in  the  south,  events  took  place  which  might 
have  been  expected,  for  they  had  accompanied  the  first  founda- 
tion and  spread  of  the  Christian  Church  and  were  therefore 
nothing  uncommon  or  surprising,  yet  they  struck  and  grieved 
us.  The  enemy  sowed  his  tares  amongst  the  wheat,  the  heathens 
began  to  rage  and  to  fear  that  a  still  greater  number  of  heathen 
temples  would  be  converted  into  Christian  houses  of  prayer. 
Universal  complaints  were  brought  forward  against  the  new 
Christians,  that  they  neither  worked  nor  brought  in  their  taxes 
regularly  as  before.  Many  were  forcibly  dragged  away  from 
Divine  Service,  were  beaten,  plundered  and  thrown  into  prison, 
and  a  new  Christian  Church  was  set  on  fire  and  burned  to  the 


—     257     — 

ground.  A  Hindu  of  consequence  who  had  not  been  able  to  re- 
press his  inimical  feelings  even  while  Gericke  was  present, 
showed  the  greatest  zeal  in  persecution  directly  he  was  absent; 
and  amongst  the  new  converts,  there  was  an  overseer,  who  hav- 
ing embraced  Christianity  with  Jewish  ideas  of  the  kingdom  of 
God,  and  having  promised  great  worldly  advantages  to  all  who 
followed  him,  no  sooner  found  himself  disappointed,  than,  like 
a  second  Julian,  he  joined  the  opposing  party  and  distinguish- 
ed himself  in  it.  A  few  examples  of  bad  Christians  spread  their 
ill -fame  over  all,  and  heathen  Dubashes  represented  to  the 
English  Resident  that  the  spread  of  Christianity  was  very  bad 
for  the  revenue  and  for  all  civil  arrangements,  so  that  the  na- 
tive priests  received  orders  not  to  accept  or  baptize  any  one 
who  should  announce  himself  to  be  converted.  The  most  sor- 
rowful letters  and  reports  came  in,  accompanied  by  earnest  re- 
quests that  we  would  assist  the  oppressed  Christians  and  send 
them  a  Missionary  to  strengthen  and  console  them.  Meanwhile 
a  pious-minded  Englishman  had  undertaken  to  see  justice  done 
in  their  case,  and  a  new  and  noble-minded  Collector  who  was 
appointed  followed  his  example,  instituted  rigorous  inquiries, 
suppressed  the  riots  and  punished  the  guilty  without  respect  of 
persons.  Some  of  those  who  had  burned  the  Church,  were  con- 
demned to  several  years  imprisonment  by  the  English  Judge. 
The  greater  part  of  the  inquiry  took  place  while  Herr  Kohlhoff 
was  there,  for  he  undertook  a  journey  to  visit  these  congrega- 
tions in  1803,  and  was  kindly  received  by  the  good  Collector  and 
other  English  Gentlemen.  He  inquired  into  and  brought  for- 
ward the  real  state  of  affairs,  found  much  attention  and  assis- 
tance, reconciled  opponents,  recommended  the  Christians  to  be 
very  careful  in  their  conduct,  exhorted  them  by  faithfulness, 
courage  and  patience  to  imitate  their  Saviour  who  through  the 


—     258     — 

cross  had  entered  into  his  glory  and  encouraged  them  with  the 
hope  that  those,  who  cheerfully  bear  his  cross,  will  also  be  ad- 
mitted to  share  in  his  glory !" 

Gericke  died  at  a  distance  from  the  work  which  had  been 
begun  in  the  southern  regions,  but  before  giving  an  account  of 
his  death,  I  must  remark  that  it  was  in  the  very  district  in 
which  Gericke  preached  a  year  before  his  death  that  Rhenius 
afterwards  laboured  in  the  service  of  the  English  Church  Mis- 
sionary Society.  Any  one  who  has  been  interested  in  the  pro- 
gress of  Missions  in  our  century  will  of  course  have  heard  of 
the  name  of  Rhenius,*  and  of  the  thousands  won  by  him  to  the 
Church  of  Christ  in  Southern  India;  but  very  few  know  that  it 
was  the  Tranquebar  Missionary  John  who  caused  Rhenius  to 
be  sent  out  to  India,  and  that  Palamcotta  and  its  neighbourhood 
had  been  well  ploughed  up  by  the  old  Lutheran  Missionaries, 
even  though  neglected  after  their  death. 

Immediately  on  his  return  home  from  his  remarkable  jour- 
nay  to  the  South,  Gericke  was  attacked  with  fever,  from  which 
he  recovered  indeed,  but  his  increasing  and  ceaseless  labours 
did  not  allow  him  that  repose  which  his  weak  health  and  age 
(he  was  then  61)  called  for.  His  malady  preyed  on  him  inward- 
ly, and  hoping  that  a  change  of  air  might  be  beneficial,  he  went 
to  Rayacotta  at  the  repeated  invitation  of  some  English  friends. 
On  his  return  he  came  to  Vellore,  where  there  was  a  small  con- 
gregation of  his,  and  while  staying  there  in  the  house  of  Colonel 
Cammel,  took  advantage  of  the  opportunity  of  having  the  ad- 
vice of  an  English  Surgeon.  He  saw  that  he  could  scarcely 
hope  to  go  on,  and  yet  wished  to  be  at  home,  and  by  the  ad- 

*Karl  Gottlieb  Ewald  Rhenius  was  born  at  Graudenz  in  1790,  went  to  India 
in  1814,  to  Palamcotta  in  1820  and  died  in  1838.  See  the  "Life  of  Missionary 
Rhenius"  in  Schmidt's  "Biographies  of  celebrated  Evangelical  Missionaries;1'  Leipzig, 
1842. 


—    259     — 

vice  of  the  Doctor  took  a  bath,  but  it  only  seemed  to  increase 
his  weakness.  He  baptized  Colonel  Cammers  child,  though  so 
weak  that  he  could  only  sit  up  in  bed  to  administer  the  sacra- 
ment. When  the  baptism  was  given  he  said,  "Now  I  must  start 
at  once,  for  I  long  to  see  my  catechists,  my  children  (these 
were  the  children  of  a  school  founded  by  Lady  Campbell  for 
European  orphans,  called  "the  Female  Asylum"  which  Gericke 
superintended)  and  all  the  members  of  the  congregation." 
When  he  found  that  the  Colonel,  the  Doctor  and  all  the  other 
gentlemen  opposed  his  going,  he  was  much  distressed.  Towards 
evening  he  ordered  his  palanquin  to  be  prepared,  and  said  to  the 
Catechists,  "  Go  to  the  authorities  and  bring  me  the  necessary 
passport  for  my  journey,"  but  when  it  was  brought  to  him  he  said, 
"I  shall  not  require  it,  keep  it,  I  am  going!  "  A  boy,  who  was 
standing  near,  asked,  "0  Sir,  where  are  you  going?"  "Be  con- 
tented, my  son,"  answered  he,  "I  am  going."  He  then  drank 
a  little  rice-water  and  said,  "  Now  let  no  one  disturb  me,"  and 
laid  down.  About  12  o'clock  he  cried  out,  "My  God,  my  Jesus, 
my  Jesus,"  and  lay  quiet  as  if  asleep.  No  one  liked  to  wake 
him  as  he  had  asked  not  to  be  disturbed,  but  when  the  Cate- 
chist  at  last  spoke  to  him  he  found  that  he  was  dead. 

When  the  corpse  was  brought  into  Vepery  on  the  6th  of 
October  1803,  the  bell  was  tolled  and  great  numbers  of  people  of 
all  classes  assembled;  it  was  calculated  that  there  were  between 
4  and  5000  people  at  his  funeral.  "  Rest  softly,"  say  his  collea- 
gues in  Tranquebar,  "thou  amiable,  faithful,  ever  memorable 
brother!  after  thy  long  and  severe  sufferings,  after  shining  here 
as  a  christian  and  a  teacher  amongst  thy  brethren  and  the 
servants  of  the  Gospel,  enjoy  the  reward  of  thy  faith  and  patience 
in  the  home  of  the  blessed.  Christ  was  thy  life,  and  death  was 
gain  to  thee,  now  art  thou  with  Him  whom  thou  hast  served 


—     260     — 

and  followed  so  truly,  and  with  whom  {hou  didst  often  long  to  be. 
Thy  example  in  humility,  disinterestedness  and  untiring  labour 
in  the  cause  to  which  thou  didst  devote  thyself,  should  be  ever 
present  to  us  and  encourage  us  to  a  like  zeal." 

He  was  everywhere  loved  and  respected,  so  that  his  company 
was  much  sought  after  by  people  of  distinction.  This  was  very 
useful  to  him  when  he  had  any  request  to  make,  and  he  was 
very  seldom  refused,  as  every  one  felt  sure  that  ho  would  not 
ask  what  was  unsuitable  or  unreasonable.  He  would  not  refuse 
to  assist  any  one,  even  if  it  cost  him  time,  trouble  and  expense, 
nor  even  if  it  led  him  into  danger.  He  gave  remarkable  example 
of  this  in  1782  at  Cuddalore,  when  he  hid  in  his  house  seven 
of  those  English  officers  who  were  given  up  by  Admiral  Suffrein 
to  Hyder  Ali,  and  fed  them  till  they  could  fly  to  a  place  of 
greater  safety,  thus  saving  them  from  the  imprisonment  and 
misery  which  the  others  suffered  for  the  two  years  during  which 
they  were  at  the  mercy  of  that  tyrant.  In  his  housekeeping  ho 
was  frugal,  spending  little  on  himself,  but  much  on  his  fellow - 
creatures  who  were  in  need.  The  more  disinterested  he  was, 
the  more  presents  flowed  in  upon  him,  which  he  distributed 
generously  on  all  sides.  If  he  could  do  some  good  or  turn  away 
some  evil,  he  did  not  hesitate  to  give  away  hundreds  of  dollars.* 
He  lived  most  simply  himself,  and  when  on  a  journey  was  always 
satisfied  with  a  curry  of  dried  fish  with  rice,  which  he  called 
his  pilgrim's  curry.  Though  many  poor  people,  widows  and 
orphans  shared  his  property  during  his  life,  he  left  his  family 

*The  Tranquebar  Missionaries  received  a  proof  of  this  in  1801  when  a  most 
unworthy  and  vicious  Missionary,  Friichtenicht,  had  been  sent  by  them  to  Madras  to 
go  home  from  thence:  he  spent  all  his  money  and  would  certainly  have  returned  to 
Tranquebar,  had  not  Gericke  come  forward,  paid  his  debts  and  taken  a  passage  for 
him  in  a  ship  bound  to  the  Cape  for  200  starpagodas,  declaring  moreover  that  he  did 
not  wish  to  be  repaid,  for  he  had  given  it  freely,  wishing  to  remove  such  a  scandal 
from  the  Mission.  The  Mission-College  ordered  him  to  be  repaid  and  sent  him  also 
a  complimentary  letter,  but  Gericke  was  dead  before  it  arrived. 


—     261     — 

properly  provided  for,  and  had  also  remembered  the  Mission- 
establishment  in  Vepery.  f  He  spent  and  ended  his  valuable  life 
in  activity  for  mankind.  He  died  without  a  long  and  painful 
illness,  like  a  pilgrim  on  a  journey. 

t  Gericke  says  in  his  will,  "My  greatest  troubles  have  occurred  during  the  last 
seven  years.  My  daughter  Dorothea  Sophia  Hunter  died  aged  20,  and  my  son  Captain 
George  Frederick  aged  30." 


CHAPTER  XV. 

THE  MISSION  IN  TRANQUEBAR  AFTER  THE   YEAR  1740.  — MISSION 
EXPERIMENT  AT    THE    NICOBAR  ISLANDS.  — MORAVIANS    IN 
TRANQUEBAR.— JESUITS  IN  TRANQUEBAR.— BETHLEHEM- 
CHURCH.— NATIVE  TEACHERS. 

It  has  been  already  shown  how  the  Mission  spread  along 
the  coast  from  Tranquebar  to  Madras,  from  Madras  to  Cuddalore, 
from  Cuddalore  to  Calcutta,  and  in  the  interior  from  Tranquebar 
to  Trichinopoly  and  Tanjore,  and  from  Tanjore  to  Palamcotta. 
We  wrill  now  retnrn  to  Tranquebar,  and  see  what  has  been  going 
on  there  since  1740.  We  will  first  notice  an  attempt  to  spread 
still  further,  over  the  sea  and  salt-water  to  the  Nicobar  Islands , 
to  which  the  Danes  laid  claim,  and  which  they  had  often  tried 
to  colonize,  but  unsuccessfully  as  sickness  and  death  amongst 
the  colonists  had  always  stifled  the  undertaking  in  its  birth. 
It  is  not  my  intention  to  describe  these  expeditions,  but  I  must 
mention  that  at  least  in  one  of  them  some  one  thought  that  the 
conversion  of  the  Nicobarese  should  be  attempted,  for  in  Fe- 
bruary 1756  the  Government  requested  the  Missionaries  to 
send  one  of  their  number  in  the  Company's  ship  that  was 
about  to  start  for  those  islands,  to  try  whether  the  heathen  in- 
habitants could  be  persuaded  to  embrace  the  truth,  and  also  to 
take  the  spiritual  care  over  those  white  and  black  Christians 
who  were  already  there,  or  who  might  go  hereafter.  This  re- 
quest was  at  first  refused,  but  when  it  was  repeated  in  the  same 
year  shortly  before  the  departure  of  the  ship,  it  was  thought 


26 


o 


better  to  take  it  into  more  serious  consideration,  and  they  se- 
lected by  vote  Missionary  Poltzenhagen  who  was  also  willing 
to  go.  He  was  born  at  Wollin  in  Pomerania  in  1726,  had  studi- 
ed at  Halle,  and  given  instruction  in  the  school  of  the  Orphan- 
house  there.  In  1750  he  went  to  India  with  Schwartz  and 
Huttemann  and  attached  himself  particularly  to  the  Portuguese 
congregation.  He  was  a  quiet  pious  man,  whose  turn  of  mind 
may  be  seen  in  the  following  letter  written  the  year  before  he 
started  for  the  Nicobars.  "  So  far  as  my  insignificant  person  is 
concerned,  through  the  mercy  of  God  my  Saviour  I  have  been 
kept  tolerably  fresh  at  my  post.  He  also  works  in  my  soul  by 
his  Spirit,  preparing  me  both  for  my  employment  and  for  a 
blessed  eternity.  My  constant  prayer  therefore  is,  "  Lord  Jesus! 
drive  out  everything,  take  everything  away  which  might  sepa- 
rate me  from  thee  and  which  might  hinder  me  from  belonging  to 
thee."  Both  inwardly  and  outwardly  I  have  great  cause  for 
praying  thus  with  a  daily-renewed  zeal.  If  the  faithful  Saviour 
will  help  me  through  unto  salvation,  this  will  suffice  me."  As  we 
have  said  he  was  quite  ready  to  undertake  the  voyage,  and  when 
some  difficulties  occurred  and  he  was  again  asked  whether  he  re- 
mained firm  to  his  intention,  he  answered,  "No  difficulties  shall 
be  made  on  my  part,  but  in  God's  name  I  will  go  in  the  ship  to 
the  Nicobars,  as  an  explorer,  and  may  God  give,  a  good  one, 
of  the  country."  On  the  1st  of  September  1756  he  started  in 
the  ship  "  Copenhagen"  and  arrived  at  his  destination  after  a 
voyage  of  eight  days.  He  employed  his  time  admirably  in  try- 
ing to  become  well  acquainted  with  the  natives,  in  visiting  the 
many  sick  and  dying  (as  we  see  by  his  journals)  but  fell  ill  him- 
self and  died  on  the  28th  of  November,  at  the  early  age  of  30- 
In  two  of  the  following  expeditions  Danish  priests  were  at  the 
head  of  affairs,  Engelhardt  in  1790,  and  liosen  in  1831,  but 


—     264     — 

as  their  primary  object  was  not  the  conversion  of  the  natives, 
and  as  they  did  not  belong  to  the  Mission  though  they  sailed 
from  Tranquebar,  I  cannot  stop  to  relate  their  fate.  The  attempt 
of  the  Moravians  at  colonizing  the  Nicobars  will  be  spoken  of 
directly. 

While  the  Tranquebar  Mission  was  thus  trying  to  spread, 
it  was  exposed  to  some  immigrations  which  caused  the  Mission- 
aries much  more  disturbance  and  trouble  than  was  desirable. 
The  first  of  these  arrivals  was  that  of  the  Moravians,  as  I  glean 
from  some  of  Francke's  letters  of  the  year  1759;  writing  to 
Finkenhagen,  he  says,  "Another  piece  of  news  which  I  have  re- 
ceived has  struck  me  very  much,  and  troubled  me  not  a  little, 
namely  that  the  Moravians  are  trying  to  establish  themselves 
in  Tranquebar.    Whoever  knows  the  intrigues  with  which  that 
sect  is  always  connected,  will  feel  sure  that  not  only  the  advan- 
tages which  they  will  have  promised  to  the  King  or  the  Com- 
pany will  consist  in  empty  words,  as  experience  in  Silesia  and 
other  places  would  prove,  but  it  is  also  to  be  feared  that  they 
will  spare  no  pains  to  distract  the  congregations  gathered,  which 
has  ever  been  the  consequence  of  their  making  their  way  into 
a  place  and  trying  to  spread  their  cause  under  cover  of  the  Sa- 
viour's name;  for  they  seek  out  the  least  steady  and  most  pli- 
able of  the  congregation,  and  take  great  pains  to  draw  them 
over  to  their  party,  by  which  they  are  torn  away  from  simple 
Christianity.     I  could  bring  forward  innumerable  examples  of 
the  damp  they  have  thus  thrown  on  all  that  is  good."      Thus 
Francke  continues,  and  from  his  other  letters  it  is  easy  to  see 
how  violent  he  was  against  the  Moravians,  especially  on  ac- 
count of  their  duplicity.  He  relates  examples  of  Count  Zinzen- 
dorf  s  untrustworthiness,  and  declares  that  the  Moravians  had 


—     265     — 

boasted,  especially  in  Switzerland,  that  the  management  of  the 
Danish  Mission  had  been  confided  to  them. 

But  if  Francke  took  the  idea  of  their  going  so  ill,  how- 
startled  were  the  Missionaries  at  the  place  itself,  when,  in  the 
year  1760, 14  Moravians  arrived  in  the  same  ship  which  brought 
out  Governor  Forch,  made  preparations  for  settling  there,  bought 
a  garden  near  the  town  for  1100  dollars,  began  to  learn  Tamil 
and  Portuguese,  received  encouragement  from  Herr  Husum,  the 
Pastor  at  Zion-Church,  who  was  considered  by  the  Missionaries 
to  be  a  thorough  Moravian,  and  were  not  discouraged  by  the 
new  Governor.  The  Missionaries  were  very  unfriendly  towards 
these  strangers  and  would  have  nothing  whatsoever  to  do  with 
them.  As  they  feared  that  a  Mission  would  thus  be  established 
within  the  Mission,  they  wrote  to  the  Governor  and  asked  for 
an  explanation  as  to  whether  the  Moravians  had  received  per- 
mission to  act  thus  from  the  King  or  the  Company.  They  re- 
ceived*the  unconsolatory  answer,  that  so  far  as  he  knew  these 
colonists  had  been  invited  by  the  Royal  Danish  Court  to  settle 
in  the  Nicobar  Islands;  that  they  had  received  privileges*  and 
permission  to  settle  in  Tranquebar  or  its  territory  and  to  enjoy 
those  advantages  which  had  been  promised  to  them  in  the  Ki- 
cobars;  that  it  was  the  King's  will  that  they  should  have  liber- 
ty of  worship  according  to  their  custom,  and  that  it  would  be 
pleasing  to  the  King  if  they  could  assist  in  the  conversion  of 
the  blind  heathens;  that  they  would  have  free  permission  for 
preaching  the  Gospel  to  the  natives,  for  forming  into  Moravian 

*The  Missionaries  received  further  information  on  this  point  from  the  Govern- 
ment Secretary  Falck.  The  Moravians  had  received  permission  to  settle  in  the  ISTicobars, 
and  to  be  free  there  from  all  taxes  for  20  years;  they  might  enjoy  the  same  freedom  for 
12  years  in  Tranquebar  or  indeed  in  any  of  the  Danish  possessions  in  India.  All 
Christians  or  Heathens  who  would  join  them  were  to  enjoy  the  same  freedom,  Go- 
vernment promised  to  assist  them,  to  assign  land  to  them,  to  give  them  introductions 
when  they  went  to  other  places  &c. 

20 


—     266     — 

congregations  those,  whom  they  should  bring  into  the  commu- 
nion of  the  universal  christian  Church  by  baptism.  The  Gover- 
nor concluded  by  saying,  that,  as  it  was  his  duty  to  see  that  the 
Evangelical  brethren  avoided  all  causes  of  disagreement  with 
the  justly-famed  Lutheran  Missionaries,  he  hoped  that  these 
would  in  their  turn  also  act  in  the  same  spirit. 

It  is  difficult  to  understand  how  the  Moravians  had  obtained 
these  privileges;  yet  I  think  I  can  resolve  the  difficulty.  Know- 
ing that  the  Mission  -  College  would  be  opposed  to  them,  they 
applied  to  the  King  through  another  channel,  viz  the  Direction 
of  the  Asiatic  Company  and  Count  Moltke.  They  would  natu- 
rally represent  at  first  what  an  advantage  it  would  be  to  the 
Company  to  have  them  as  colonists,  and  as  soon  as  the  Com- 
pany showed  its  wish  to  secure  them,  they  required  privileges 
which  were  drawn  up  as  if  one  of  themselves  had  written  them; 
but  I  have  seen  it  asserted  that  it  was  done  with  the  help  of  the 
book-keeper  of  the  Company,  Bornovsky,  and  these  privileges 
were  then  confirmed  by  the  King,  who,  never  suspecting  that 
there  were  any  obstacles  in  the  way,  did  not  communicate  with 
the  Mission-College.  When  the  College  now  heard  of  the  arri- 
val of  these  unexpected  guests,it  sent  in  most  earnest  represen- 
tations of  the  consequences  of  such  a  step,  and  a  Royal  Rescript 
of  the  16th  of  November  1762  ordered,  that  the  Moravians 
must  go  to  the  Nicobars  within  a  twelve  month,  or  else  return 
to  Europe.  This  order  was  harsh  and  unjust,  for  it  contradict- 
ed their  privileges,  which  they  had  not  forfeited  by  overstep- 
ping them  in  any  particular.  But  it  was  not  carried  out,  for 
they  remained  for  six  years  in  Tranquebar  without  troubling 
themselves  about  the  Nicobars,  and  during  the  whole  of  that 
time  were  very  attentive  to  their  own  interests:  yet  they  were 
partly  restricted  as  the  Direction  of  the  Asiatic  Company  in- 


—     267     — 

formed  the  Mission-College  in  1764,  that  Government  had  re- 
peated an  order  to  the  Moravians  not  to  meddle  in  the  slightest 
degree  with  the  conversion  of  the  heathen,  mnch  less  encour- 
age any  one  to  leave  the  Lutheran  congregation  to  join  theirs. 
Amongst  the  Moravians  were  two  well-educated  men,  Butt- 
ler  and  Volkel,    who  applied  themselves  to  the  study  of  the  na- 
tive languages,  and  began  to  translate  Zinzendorf  s  sermons 
into  Tamil  and  Portuguese.     The  Missionaries  relate  that  they 
tried  to  become  acquainted  with  the  members  of  their  congre- 
gation, and  to  imbue  them  with  a  bad  opinion  of  the  instruction 
they  had  heretofore  received  and  with  a  good  one  of  what  they 
could  give,  that  they  never  attended  Divine  Service  when  it 
was  performed  in  German,  but  only  the  Tamil  and  Portuguese 
services  in  order  to  perfect  themselves  in  those  languages.    At 
last  they  report  that,  in  addition  to  the  fourteen  Moravians  who 
came  out  in  1760,  9  men  and  4  women  had  arrived  from  Europe 
on  tlfe  22nd  Aug.  1761,  and  that  it  was  rumoured  that  a  large 
party  of  them  was  coming  out  in  every  ship  that  should  leave 
Denmark,  "from  which,"  say  the  Missionaries,  amay  God  pre- 
serve us!'    They  made  themselves  such  general  favourites  in 
Tranquebar  that  Wiedebrock  relates  that  the  arrival  of  the  Roy- 
al Rescript  had  made  a  very  unfavourable  impression  on  the 
public,  who  looked  upon  them  as  useful  colonists.     Even  their 
opponents  bear  testimony  to  their  irreproachable  lives.    Made- 
rup  expresses  himself  still  more  strongly  on  the  general  favour 
in  which  they  were  held.  "I  cannot  describe,"  says  he,  "how 
the  Moravians  have  insinuated  themselves  in  so  short  a  time 
into  the  good  will  of  Danes,  French  and  even  Hindus  by  their 
voluntary  humility  and  angel-like  conduct  as  they  consider  it; 
in  a  place  where  there   are  so  few  who  can  try  the  spirits,  it  is 
no  wonder  if  the  shell  is  preferred  to  the  kernel.    If  they  were 

20* 


—     268     — 

as  pure  in  their  doctrine  and  teaching  as  their  life  is  outwardly 
to  the  eyes  of  the  world,  there  would  not  be  a  sect  or  race  to 
equal  them  in  the  whole  of  Asia.  The  Natives  therefore  call 
them  the  "  Saints"  or  the  "Nyanigol"  which  means  "the  wise 
men,"  that  being  the  name  which  they  gave  here  to  some  of 
their  own  holy  men."  The  two  elder  Catechists,  Rayanaiken  and 
Schawriappen,  often  went  to  visit  them,  even  after  the  Mission- 
aries had  told  them  that  they  did  not  approve  of  it; — they  show- 
ed a  great  liking  for  them  and  one  even  took  up  their  peculiar 
modes  of  speech,  so  that  it  was  much  feared  that  he  would  join 
them  altogether,  which  however  did  not  take  place.  The  Mora- 
vians next  gained  the  favour  of  Captain  Berg  in  Tanjore,  the  great 
patron  of  the  Mission,  for  Wiedebrock  says  of  him  that  he  had 
asked  and  obtained  permission  from  the  King  of  Tanjore  to  al- 
low twelve  of  them  to  settle  in  his  dominions.  Wiedebrock 
spoke  to  the  Captain,  warning  him  of  the  errors  of  the  Mora- 
vians which  he  explained  to  him,  but  without  effect,  for1  the 
Captain  was  quite  taken  in  by  them.  It  is  difficult  to  say  why, 
under  such  favourable  circumstances,  they  remained  in  Tran- 
quebar  instead  of  going  to  Tanjore.  Perhaps  they  wished  first 
to  be  on  a  better  footing  with  the  Missionaries,  for  which  pur- 
pose they  made  several  attempts.  In  the  Archives  of  the  Mis- 
sion-College I  have  seen  an  account  of  a  conversation  between 
an  Assistant  of  Francke's,  Inspector  Fabricius  of  Halle,  and 
the  Syndic  Koeber,  who  had  been  sent  there  by  the  Directors 
of  the  Moravian  brethren  to  persuade  the  Halle  party  not  to 
work  against  them.  I  have  also  seen  the  representation  of  the 
Moravian  Stahlmann  to  the  Government  in  Tranquebar  and  the 
counter-representation  of  the  Missionaries.  Finally  there  is  a 
document  in  the  writing  of  Frederick,  Baron  von  Watteville, 
who  addresses  the  Mission-College  in  the  name  of  the  Directory 


'    —    2G9     — 

of  the  United  Brethren  to  complain  of  the  quarrelsome  disposition 
of  the  Lutheran  teachers  towards  the  Brethren  and  to  beg  the 
College  to  write  to  the  Missionaries  and  to  try  to  remove  their 
suspicions;  the  whole  is  instructive  in  many  respects,  but  be- 
ing too  lengthy  to  be  inserted  here,  I  must  be  satisfied  with 
saying  that  it  did  not  produce  any  favourable  results.  In  1766 
the  Missionaries  relate  that  two  of  the  Moravians  had  gone  to 
Colombo  in  Ceylon  and  one  of  them  had  died  there,  wherefore 
one  of  their  Missionaries,  Buttler,  had  left  Tranquebar  to  join 
him;  and  that  the  Moravians  were  more  and  more  known  and 
loved  on  the  coast.  "  Some,"  say  they,  "are  very  much  sur- 
prised at  their  going  on  so  mysteriously,  but  many  become  very 
anxious  in  consequence  to  know  what  their  secrets  are."  In 
1767  it  is  said  of  them  that  they  keep  within  bounds,  that  the 
Missionaries  have  no  communication  with  them,  neither  do 
they  talk  of  them  to  others,  so  that  they  can  scarcely  complain, 
but  that  real  unity  is  not  to  be  hoped  for,  because  the  Mission- 
aries felt  perfectly  convinced  of  the  unfair  dealings  of  this  par- 
ty. At  last  on  the  7th  of  August  1768,  six  of  the  Moravians, 
including  one  of  their  Missionaries,  Mr.  Yolkel,  embarked  on 
board  a  sloop  belonging  to  the  Company,  and  sailed  for  the 
Nicobar  Islands,  with  the  understanding  that  more  were  to  fol- 
low, if  they  gave  favourable  reports.  The  news  soon  arrived 
that  two  of  the  six  were  dead.  The  remaining  four  extolled 
the  fruitfulness  of  the  country,  and  thought  that  they  should 
do  very  well  when  they  had  got  over  the  fever.  They  did  in- 
deed remain  there,  and  the  colony  lasted  for  nearly  twenty 
years.,  but  in  1787  it  was  given  up.  They  remained  much  long- 
er in  Tranquebar.  In  1772  the  Halle  Reports  say,  that  the 
newspapers  relate  that  the  Moravians  have  taken  advantage 
of  the  state  of  affairs  to  obtain  new  privileges  and  ask  whether 


—     270     — 

anything  that  has  been  done  will  be  prejudicial  to  the  Mission? 
The  Missionaries  say  in  1773,  that  more  Moravians  have  ar- 
rived, and  that  the  Danish  priests  had  made  known  an  edict  in 
their  favour  from  the  pulpit.  In  1774  it  is  told,  that  they  are  not 
making  public  attempts  to  spread  their  doctrines,  but  that  one  of 
their  elders,  Woltersdorf,  who  had  come  out  the  year  before, 
had,  in  an  Indian  dress,  baptized  one  of  their  heathen  servants, 
that  this  had  often  occurred  with  persons  in  their  service,  but 
had  never  been  known  before.  Freylinghausen,  who  had  taken 
Francke's  place  at  Halle,  especially  requested  the  College  to 
keep  a  watchful  eye  on  the  Moravians,  as  he  had  reason  to  be- 
lieve that  their  minds  were  bent  on  mischief,  and  that  they  were 
doing  all  in  their  power  to  obtain  a  share  in  the  Danish  Mis- 
sion-work. "  As  the  Moravian  party,"  says  he  some  years  la- 
ter, "have  suddenly  taken  a  more  refined  appearance,  and 
seem  to  find  more  entrance  every  where  amongst  well  -  mean- 
ing people,  it  requires  great  care  that  none  of  their  adherents 
should  be  selected  as  Missionary,  for  it  is  quite  clear  that  their 
intention  is  to  get  the  Mission  entirely  into  their  hands."  After 
this  time  we  hear  very  little  of  the  Moravians.  They  are  only 
spoken  of  in  a  cursory  way,  and  in  1803  it  is  said,  "  The  two 
who  still  remain  here,  Weber  and  Ramsch,  have  given  up  their 
establishment,  sold  their  garden  and  fields,  and  intend  to  re- 
turn to  Europe  by  the  first  opportunity." 

About  a  year  after  the  immigration  of  the  Moravians,  we 
hear  for  the  first  time  of  Jesuits  in  Tranquebar.  When  Pondi- 
chery  was  taken  by  the  English  in  1761,  eight  or  ten  Jesuits 
with  other  Frenchmen  fled  to  Tranquebar,  where  the  Franciscans 
have  long  had  a  Church.  At  first  they  only  erected  an  altar 
in  their  own  house  and  performed  their  worship  privately,  but 
afterwards  they  had  a  piece  of  ground  in  Poreiar  allotted  to 


—     271     — 

them  as  a  churchyard  by  Governor  Forch,  where  they  built  a 
little  hut  and  collected  stone,  in  order  to  build  at  some  future 
opportunity;  they  even  rented  a  house  in  Poreiar  and  requested 
the  Government  to  allow  them  to  perform  Divine  Worship 
publicly.  On  the  representation  of  the  Missionaries  this  was 
denied  them,  at  least  they  were  told  that  they  could  only  obtain 
such  a  permission  from  the  King  of  Denmark.  They  then  rented 
a  large  house  in  Tranquebar  and  began  a  school.  The  Mission- 
aries made  a  representation  against  this  also,  and  begged  the 
College  to  do  everything  to  prevent  the  Jesuits  who  had  fled 
with  many  native  Catholics  from  Pondichery,  from  building 
their  nest  in  Tranquebar:  and  then  they  go  on  to  speak  of  the 
change  which  the  English  victories  had  produced.  "Three 
years  ago  the  Jesuits  boasted  publicly  in  their  church  at  Pon- 
dichery that  they  made  such  progress  in  persuading  our  Chris- 
tians to  embrace  their  errors,  that  the  heretical  Missions  in 
Madras,  Cuddalore  and  Tranquebar  would  soon  fall  to  the 
ground.  They  began  skilfully  enough;  for  as  the  French  were 
then  conquering  whole  kingdoms,  they  could  bring  in  Christians 
every  where,  and  give  them  all  sorts  of  emoluments  and 
employments,  by  which  means  they  could  of  course  easily 
attract  the  worldly-minded.  Their  strength  lay  in  General 
Lally  having  arrived  from  Europe  with  3000  men,  who  sought 
to  bring  everything  into  their  power  by  violent  means.  When 
our  brethren  in  Cuddalore  fled  for  refuge  to  us,  and  those  in 
Madras  to  Pulicat,  our  prospect  was  dark  and  dreary  certainly; 
but  how  suddenly  it  has  all  altered!  Where  is  the  great  and 
terrible  army?  has  it  not  melted  away?  Where  is  Pondichery, 
the  great  Babel?  Have  not  the  English,  or  rather  has  not  God, 
the  Holy  and  the  Just,  thrown  it  down  to  the  ground  and  made 
it  desolate?  Where  are  now  the  numerous  and  proud  false  teachers? 


—     272     — 

Have  they  not  been  obliged  to  take  refuge  in  Tranquebar?  And 
our  Mission-establishments  are  still  standing.  Let  us  not  there- 
fore be  highminded,  but  rather  let  us  fear,  for  we  know  that 
if  we  do  not  turn  his  goodness  and  the  ^blessings  of  his  grace  to 
better  advantage,  still  greater  trials  may  fall  upon  us.  We  ac- 
knowledge with  thorough  humiliation  before  God  that  among 
our  Native  assistants,  in  our  congregations,  and  in  our  schools, 
there  is  so  much  indolence,  such  earthly  and  carnal  customs, 
and  such  a  disgraceful  want  of  faith,  as  cannot  be  pleasing 
to  a  holy  God.  Yes,  we  ourselves  are  not  pure  before  him! 
He  has  good  reason  to  cast  us  off,  and  to  make  us  desolate,  and 
who  can  say  what  he  has  determined  in  his  holy  counsel?" 

The  Missionaries  complain  again  of  the  Jesuits  in  the  fol- 
lowing year,  and  call  the  attention  of  the  College  to  the  fact 
that,  in  spite  of  the  Danish  prohibition,  they  have  now  been  in 
Tranquebar  for  two  years.  A  Jesuit  school-master,  who  had 
gone  out  for  a  walk  with  his  children,  had  entered  into  a  dis- 
pute in  the  public  street  with  the  children,  and  teachers  of  the 
Mission-school,  and  had  said  amongst  other  things,  "  You  do 
not  know  the  truth;  none  of  you  can  be  saved,  only  we  know 
the  way  to  salvation.  All  who  do  not  pray  to  the  Mother  of  God , 
but  say  that  she  was  a  sinner,  will  certainly  go  to  Hell."  "Be 
also  spoke  contemptuously  of  Luther.  This  conversation  went 
on  till  they  were  close  to  the  gates  of  the  town,  so  that  two  of 
the  Missionaries,  who  were  just  passing  by,  heard  it.  Mean- 
while the  Romanists  increased  the  pomp  of  their  religious  ser- 
vices, to  which  the  number  of  refugees  from  Pondichery,  con- 
tributed; some  of  the  native  Romanists  in  Tranquebar  were 
very  rich,  and  had  plays  acted  in  Poreiar  at  their  own  expense; 
probably  on  scripture  subjects  as  is  often  the  case  in  Roman 
Catholic  countries.      This  storm  however  passed  away  sooner 


—     273     — 

than  had  been  expected:  as  early  as  1765  the  Missionaries  an- 
nounced that  since  Pondichery  and  Carical  had  again  fallen 
into  the  possession  of  the  French,  both  they  and  the  Jesuits 
had  left  Tranquebar. 

We  will  now  turn  our  attention  to  the  state  of  the  con- 
gregation in  Tranquebar  since  1740,  and  remark  that  it  had 
increased  so  much  that  it  became  necessary  to  build  a  new 
Church.     It  was  in  the  year  1717  that  Ziegenbalg  had  conse- 
crated the  one  which  was  called  New-Jerusalem.     This  had 
soon  become  too  small,  and  the  Missionaries  had  to  consider 
how  to  make  room  for  the  people,  who  on  festival  days  when 
many  came  in  from  the  country,  and  even   on  Sundays,  were 
obliged  to  sit  outside  the  door.    They  thought  at  first  of  adding 
to  the  Church,  but  there  were  difficulties  in  the  way  of  this  and 
it  would  not  be  a  sufficient  change.     With  the  consent  of  the 
Government   they  therefore    determined  on  building  a   new 
Church  in  the  Mission-garden  at  Poreiar  amongst  the  villages 
of  the  Company,  so  that  the  Christians  there  might  have  the 
Church  close  to  them,  and  the  foundation  was  laid  in  October 
1743.    The  building  went  on  but  slowly,  on  account  of  a  want 
of  materials,  but  it  was  finished  in  1746.  It  was  in  the  form  of 
a  cross,  and  received  the  name  of  Bethlehem,  because,  as  it  is 
said  in  the  consecration-sermon,  "  it  lay  not  far  from  Jerusalem- 
Church  in  the  town,  just  as  the  ancient  Bethlehem  was  not  far 
from  Jerusalem.      Bethlehem  was  a  little  village  and  yet  the 
Son  of  God  did  not  despise  being  born  there.     Also  the  little 
insignificant  Bethlehem  Church  will  be  thought  worthy  of  the 
gracious  presence  of  Jesus,  and  as  the  Redeemer  was  born  in 
the  flesh  in  Bethlehem,  we  may  hope  that  he  will  be  spiritually 
born  in  the  souls  of  many  believers  if  the  Gospel  is  properly 
published  and  accepted  here.  Bethlehem  means  a  house  of  bread, 


—     274     — 

and  deserves  its  name  as  Jesus  who  is  the  bread  of  life  (John 
vi,  35)  was  born  there,  and  our  Bethlehem  Church  may  be  a 
spiritual  house  of  bread,  wherein  Jesus  will  communicate  him- 
self to  hungry  souls  by  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  and  the 
receiving  of  the  Lard's  Supper."  These  words  of  David's  were 
placed  over  the  principal  entrance,  "  0  come  let  us  worship  and 
bow  down,  let  us  kneel  before  the  Lord  our  Maker"  (Psalm 
xcv,  6).  Over  the  pulpit  was  written  with  reference  to  the 
preacher,  ""We  preach  Christ  Jesus  the  Lord"  (2.  Cor.  IV, 
5),  and  opposite  to  the  pulpit  with  reference  to  the  hearers, 
"  Hear  the  word  of  the  Lord"  (Isaiah  lxvi,  5).  Over  the 
font,  "  The  washing  of  regeneration"  (Tit.  in,  5),  and  over  the 
altar,  "The  table  of  the  Lord"  (1  Cor.  x,  21).  The  consecra- 
tion took  place  on  Wednesday  after  Whitsuntide,  the  1st  of 
June  1746.  Besides  the  town-congregation  400  Christians  from 
the  country  were  present,  also  the  Danish  priest  of  Zion  Church, 
Herr  Schionnebolle,  the  Commandant,  the  Council  and  other 
people  of  distinction.  The  text  for  the  Tamil  sermon  was,  "  Mine 
house  shall  be  called  a  house  of  prayer  for  all  people"  (Is.  lvi, 
7) ,  and  the  service  was  concluded  by  a  Tamil  hymn  sung  by 
the  school-  children,  which  had  been  composed  for  the  occasion 
by  the  native  priest  Diogo.  The  Church  received  many  presents 
for  its  further  adornment,  and  the  Missionaries  determined  to 
preach  alternately  there  on  Sundays  and  Festivals. 

But  it  is  not  enough  for  us  to  know  that  the  actual  members 
of  the  Church  were  increasing,  we  wish  to  know  something  also 
of  their  spiritual  life  and  growth.  It  would  be  of  little  use  to 
extract  examples  from  the  Mission  Reports  of  those  converted 
heathens  who  were  now  leading  a  godly  life,  bearing  opposition 
with  patience,  or  bidding  adieu  to  the  world  in  the  hour  of 
death  with  a  noble  and  Christian  resignation;  for  such  examples, 


—     275     — 

though  they  are  very  numerous,  only  tell  us  of  the  state  of  in- 
dividuals, and  give  no  idea  of  the  general  state  of  feeling  in  the 
congregation.     Therefore  we  seek  for  more  general  signs  ot 
Christian  feeling  and  development,  and  come  at  once  to  the 
question,   whether  with  the  advance  of  time  the  natives  had 
shown  themselves  better  able  to  teach,  and  whether  the  more 
talented  amongst  them  were  fit  for  collecting  and  managing  a 
congregation;  or  whether  at  least  the  Missionaries  had  worked 
on  steadily  towards  this  aim,  and  with  what  success?  It  has  been 
remarked  before  that  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury  amongst 
others  zealously  exhorted  them  to  turn  their  attention  to  the 
education  of  native  teachers;  neither  were  such  exhortations 
wanting  afterwards.     An  anonymous  letter  was  sent  in  to  the 
Mission- College  with  the  superscription  of  "  Immanuel"  intend- 
ed for  the  consideration  both  of  Francke  and  the  Missionaries. 
" According  to  my  humble  opinion,"  says  the  anonymous  writer, 
"  the  main  design  of  the  Mission  from  the  beginning  has  been,  not  so 
much  to  enlighten  a  confused  crowd  of  Asiatic  heathens  by  means 
of  European  Missionaries,  as  to  obtain  and  to  instruct  a  sufficient 
number  of  inquiring  Indians  who  might  be  educated  in  an  Evan- 
gelical   Seminary    at    Tranquebar    for   the   Ministry   am  on? 
their  countrymen;  and  until  this  design  is  more  effectually  car- 
ried out  than  hitherto,  even  much  sowing  will  produce  but  very 
little  fruit.  Thanks  be  to  God  we  have  had  an  Aaron,*  and  we 
have  a  Diogo  still,  and  it  is  through  their  means  that  most  of 
what  can  properly  be  called  a  conversion  of  the  heathen  has 
taken  place;  but  according  to  my  ideas,  we  ought  to  have  twenty 
such,  and  our  God  to  whom  the  cause  belongs  will  grant  them 
to  us  though  he  does  not  give  them  immediately.    I  am  willing 
to  believe,  that  our  good  Missionaries  of  whom  there  are  now  7 

*  See  Chapter  10. 


—     276    — 

or  8  besides  the  Catechist  Hutter,  faithfully  endeavour  to  follow 
out  the  plan  which  is  laid  down  to  them  by  the  Instructions 
of  the  King,  but  if  by  the  blessing  of  God  the  plan  is  to  be  carried 
out  in  right  earnest,  then  that  what  now  seems  to  be  their  prin- 
cipal aim  should  be  but  secondary,  (namely  to  give  a  general 
instruction  to  the  children,  and  now  and  then  to  journey  about) 
and  that  what  they  now  treat  as  secondary  should  be  their 
great  and  principal  object,  namely,  by  God's  grace  to  select 
and  prepare  a  much  greater  number  of  teachers  from  amongst 
the  natives;  and  for  this  purpose  their  greatest  strength  must 
be  given  to  establishing  a  seminary  in  which  10,  20  or  30  young 
Indians  should  be  constantly  instructed.  It  may  be  asked,  how 
are  they  to  be  obtained?  and  to  this  I  answer,  that  all  the  trouble 
that  is  now  given  to  collecting  a  confused  crowd  of  Catechumens 
might  well  be  devoted  to  searching  out  such  young  men  as  these. 
It  is  true  that  for  some  years  this  would  not  make  so  good  an 
appearance,  but  it  would  be  in  this  way  that  the  seed  of  the 
Gospel  would  take  firm  root  in  those  countries,  and  spread  about 
to  all  around.  Perhaps  I  think  and  speak  like  a  fool,  because  I 
seem  to  speak  of  wishing  to  force  a  crop,  to  which  as  St.  Paul 
says,  God  alone  can  give  the  increase.  I  answer: — surely,  if 
Paul  plants  and  Apollo  waters  in  the  very  best  way  that  they 
can  devise,  and  remove  as  far  as  possible  all  hinderances,  this 
cannot  be  called  forcing  the  thing,  but  trying  whether  the  talents 
entrusted  to  us  would  not  produce  more  by  applying  them  other- 
wise." The  anonymous  author  concludes  by  requesting  that 
the  opinions  ofFrancke  and  Benjamin  Schultze  should  be  taken 
on  this  affair. 

Francke  answered  this  with  a  detailed  explanation.  He 
goes  through  all  the  remarks,  brings  for  ward.  14  heads,  convicts 
the  unknown  author  of  several  errors,  and  remarks  truly  enough 


—     277     — 

that  money  cannot  do  everything  as  he  seems  to  expect  when 
he  sees  so  little  fruit  from  much  seed:  that  the  Missionaries 
would  most  willingly  have  formed  such  a  Seminary  for  natives, 
indeed  that  they  had  done  so,  but  that  sometimes  they  could 
not  get  the  right  sort  of  people  and  that  sometimes  they  dege- 
nerated. This  explanation  was  sent  to  the  Missionaries  in  Tran- 
quebar,  who  agree  in  their  remarks  with  nearly  all  that  Francke 
says,  but  add  a  few  particulars.  In  order  to  point  out  the  original 
intention  of  the  Mission,  they  give  the  words  of  the  commission 
given  to  Ziegenbalg,  which  they  say  is  to  the  same  effect  as 
what  they  have  received.  "We,  Frederick  the  4th  &c.  having 
graciously  accepted  and  constituted,  do  hereby  accept  and  con- 
stitute Bartholomiius  Ziegenbalg  to  go  as  a  Missionary  to  the 
East  Indies,  that  he  may  apply  himself  with  all  diligence  to 
instruct  the  heathen  who  are  living  in  our  dominions  there  or 
on  its  borders,  in  all  holy  doctrine  as  it  is  contained  in  the  Word 
of  God,  and  to  bring  them  to  a  knowledge  of  salvation  according 
to  the  further  information  contained  in  the  Instruction  &c.  &c." 
but  add  they,  u  there  is  not  one  part  of  the  Royal  Instruction 
which  says  that  a  Seminary  shall  be  formed,  indeed  we  are  not 
even  told  to  take  the  trouble  to  establish  schools;  but  the  work 
amongst  the  heathen,  and  other  duties  incumbent  on  us,  are 
principally  insisted  on."  They  go  on  to  say  that  they  have  no- 
thing to  object  against  the  work  being  carried  on  by  natives. 
u  If  it  should  please  the  Lord  to  cause  a  great  awakening  amongst 
the  natives  of  this  country,  and  to  kindle  a  greater  light  amongst 
them,  for  the  appearance  of  which  we  long  anxiously,  we,  who 
are  so  often  oppressed,  yea  tortured,  by  the  burden  and  heat  of 
the  day,  are  most  heartily  ready  to  return  to  Europe  if  it  be 
God's  will,  and  to  leave  the  conversion  of  other  heathens,  and 
the  future  management  of  the  congregations  to  native  labourers." 


—     278     — 

So  the  Missionaries  say;  but  no  full  confidence  in  the 
power  of  the  Word  of  God  amongst  their  converts  is  visible 
in  them  and  much  sad  experience  amongst  their  native  Assis- 
tants discourages  them;  as  when  they  say,  "  Some  of  the  Natives 
are  making  good  use  of  the  pound  with  which  the  Lord  God 
has  entrusted  them  and  try  with  faith  and  diligence  to  bring  their 
brothers  according  to  the  flesh  into  the  kingdom  of  Christ;  but 
the  greater  number  seek  their  own;  indeed  some  by  their  open 
unfaithfulness  have  made  themselves  quite  unfit  for  any  further 
care  of  souls.  Many  of  those  who  have  been  brought  up  in  our 
seminary  have  not  allowed  the  Holy  Spirit  to  effect  a  real  change 
of  heart  in  them."  They  agree  that  it  would  be  better  if  natives 
could  do  the  Mission -work,  but  fear  that  it  cannot  be  done,  at 
least  not  at  first.  When  Missionary  John  in  1784  puts  the  ques- 
tion," How  can  the  heathen  be  more  certainly  brought  to  con- 
viction and  to  the  doctrine  which  alone  can  make  them  wise  to 
salvation?"  he  answers  without  hesitations,  "by  skilful  native 
labourers  rather  than  by  Europeans,  though  the  latter  will  still 
be  necessary  for  educating  and  guiding  the  native  priests.  Long 
experience  teaches  us  that  far  fewer  are  gathered  into  the  fold  by 
the  Missionaries  than  by  their  native  assistants;  and  as  there 
is  such  a  want  of  suitable  people  amongst  them,  our  zealous 
efforts  should  be  in  future  directed  to  repairing  it."  John  relates 
that  he  had  often  wished  himself  in  the  skin  and  dress  of  a 
native,  that  he  might  awaken  less  curiosity  and  more  confi- 
dence: for  in  his  conversations  with  the  heathen,  he  found  them 
either  slippery,  reserved  or  rude.  Many  of  the  obstacles  which 
opposed  Europeans  would  vanish  before  natives:  they  would 
not  be  occupied  as  unfortunately  the  Missionaries  must  be 
with  the  externals  of  the  congregations^  the  schools  and 
the   correspondence;  they  would  cause  no  sensation  by  their 


—     279     — 

colour  or  dress,  they  could  be  on  more  confidential  terms  with 
the  natives,  they  could  speak  their  native  tongue  more  fluently, 
and  could  som  etimes  sing  something  to  their  listeners  from 
their  native  books,  on  which  they  place  great  value  but  which 
is  unmanageable  to  the  tongue  and  disagreable  to  the  ear  of  an 
European.     These  native  teachers  might  moreover  live  on  a 
third  of  what  an  European  requires,  and  wnile  their  number 
would  be  increased,  the  latter  might  be  diminished."     Thus 
we  see  that  Missionary  John  knew  very  well  how  it  ought 
to  be;  but  the  plan  of  making  the  natives  help   in  Mission- 
ary -  work  always  failed,   most  probably  from   a  little ,  fault 
on  both  sides.     The  same  John  whom  we  have  already  heard 
speak  in  1784,  expresses  himself  thus  in  1800  when  he  touches 
on  this  subject  in  the  Report  drawn  up  by  himself  and  his  col- 
leagues on  the  state  of  the  Mission:  "  People  in  Europe  commit  a 
great  mistake  when  they  are  surprised  that  more  native  priests 
are  not  ordained,  and  that  christian  congregations  cannot  be 
managed  like  those  in  the  early  days  of  Christianity,  so  as  to 
support  themselves  and  spread  without  external  aid.    This  will 
scarcely  be  the  case  during  the  century  which  has  now  begun, 
nor  until  the  whole  nation  has  been  raised  to  the  same  scale  on 
which  the  Greeks  and  Romans  stood  when  the  Gospel  was  preach- 
ed to  them.     For  the  following  reasons  we  must  expect  that 
it  will  be  a  long  time  ere  pious  and  able  European  Missionaries 
can  be  dispensed  with.  Donum  regendi,  or  the  gift  of  managing 
a  congregation,  not  merely  preaching  to  them,  but  also  keeping 
them  in  order,  is  rarely  possessed  by  a  native.    Even  those  native 
priests,  catechists,  and  schoolmasters  who  are  really  pious  and 
skilful  men  require  constant  attention,  guidance  and  encourage- 
ment, for  the  national  character  is  timid  and  vacillating;  their 
enthusiastic  fire  soon  changes  into  coldness,  indolence  and  weak- 


—     280     — 

ness.  From  this  weakness  in  their  character  they  cannot  be  so 
much  respected  as  a  sincere  and  clever  European,  for  the  dif- 
ference must  strike  every  one.  Experience  has  shown  that  a 
very  good  and  useful  catechist  becomes  a  less  good  and  less 
useful  priest  so  that  doubts  have  been  raised  as  to  ordaining  more 
and  we  prefer  to  be  satisfied  with  catechists.  Even  the  bringing 
up  of  Catechists  has  its  difficulties,  for  as  soon  as  they  have 
received  a  superior  education,  they  leave  the  Mission  in  order 
to  obtain  more  profitable  situations,  to  which  they  are  encour- 
aged in  every  way  by  their  families,  who  wish  to  be  supported 
by  them."* 

We  are  already  acquainted  with  Rayanaiken  (see  Chap.  XI) 
He  continued  to  show  himself  untiringly  diligent,  and  was 
especially  useful  in  spreading  the  knowledge  of  Christianity  in 
the  dominions  of  the  King  of  Tanjore,  particularly  at  the  time 
when  the  Missionaries  themselves  could  not  obtain  permission 
to  go  into  the  interior.  When  Tanjore  was  besieged  by  the  French 
in  1749,  he  could  not  fly,  because  it  did  not  seem  suitable 
to  him  that  a  shepherd  should  leave  his  flock,  and  God  gave 
him  courage  to  remain  and  to  bear  the  hardships  of  the  siege. 
He  left  the  suburbs  and  took  refuge  in  the  fortress,  and  as  his 
house,  with  many  others,  was  pulled  down  by  the  King's  com- 
mand, he  lost  everything  that  he  had,  even  his  books,  and  was 
obliged  for  some  weeks  to  preach  without  a  Bible.  During  the 
siege  he  remained  near  the  town  ditches,  and  did  not  allow  a 

*  I  have  found  the  following  opinion  given  by  Schwartz  on  the  subject  of  na- 
tive ministers:—  "They  are  useful,"  says  he,  "and  skilful  enough  to  deliver  a  clear 
and  edifying  discourse.  But  they  require  some  one  to  point  out  to  them  how  they 
should  manage  this  and  that,  who  can  receive  a  report  of  their  work,  and  point  out 
to  them  how  they  might  have  done  better.  If  they  were  left  to  themselves,  much 
confusion  would  ensue.  The  catechists  would  not  be  so  obedient  to  them,  especially 
if  they  were  to  see  them  make  mistakes.  Now  on  the  contrary  subordination  is  very 
easy,  for  the  catechists  know  to  whom  to  apply  if  the  native  priest  has  done  wrong. 
I  could  prove  all  this  to  you  by  undeniable  proofs."  Halle  Reports. 


—    281     — 

* 

day  to  pass,  without  exhorting  both  Christians  and  Heathens. 
He  performed  Divine  Service  every  Sunday  and  prayed  for  the 
King  and  for  the  citadel,  which  was  saved.  When  the  danger 
was  over,  nine  Pariah  suburbs  of  Tanjore  chose  him  as  their 
umpire  in  all  their  disagreements,  and  gave  him  full  permis- 
sion to  publish  the  Gospel  amongst  them.  He  gave  great  joy 
to  the  Missionaries  in  Tranquebar  by  his  zeal  and  talents,  but 
there  are  traces  of  this  joy  not  being  unalloyed.  Shortly  after 
being  chosen  as  umpire,  he  allowed  himself  to  be  appointed  by 
the  King  of  Tanjore  as  head-man  of  the  people  that  burn  the  dead. 
As  this  brought  him  into  close  contact  with  heathen  ceremo- 
nies, the  Missionaries  were  displeased,  and  kept  back  his  sala- 
ry. When  the  Moravians  came  to  Tranquebar,  he  became  very 
intimate  with  them,  though  the  Missionaries  told  him  that  they 
did  not  approve  of  it.  These  are  the  causes  of  the  discontent 
which  prevailed  against  him,  but  it  is  difficult  to  form  any  judg- 
ment on  the  affair  from  the  slight  notices  we  have.  In  1766  he 
was  severely  ill  for  eight  weeks,  and  he  informed  the  Mission- 
aries that  "during  this  illness  the  Holy  Ghost  had  wrought  on 
his  soul  powerfully,  and  had  shown  him  how  much  insincerity 
existed  in  him,  that  he  had  therefore  determined  to  free  him- 
self from  everything,  and  be  sincere  for  the  future."  By 
Schwartz's  advice  he  was  removed  from  Tanjore  to  Arentangi, 
where  he  lived  for  some  years  in  full  activity,  and  died  on  the 
29th  September  1771,  aged  71.  Plis  death  took  place  on  Sun- 
day, after  he  had  performed  the  service  and  visited  a  sick  man. 
In  the  afternoon  he  was  attacked  by  severe  pain,  which  though 
it  seemed  at  first  to  give  way  to  the  remedies  that  were  appli- 
ed, returned  with  increased  force.  He  died  with  these  words 
on  his  lips,  "  Lord  Jesus,  receive  my  spirit,"  after  serving  the 
Mission  for  more  than  40  years.     He  possessed  a  clear  under- 

21 


—     282     — 

standing,  an  excellent  memory,  a  pleasant  manner  of  speaking, 
and  was  well  read  in  the  Bible  and  well  acquainted  with  the 
principal  events  of  Church  history.  His  zeal  in  the  spread  of 
Christianity  was  richly  blessed  by  God. 

I  will  now  turn  to  a  short  account  of  the  Native  Priests 
ordained  after  Aaron.  The  first  of  them  was  Diogo.  In  the 
year  1713  when  he  was  but  eight  years  old,  his  mother,  him- 
self and  his  brothers  and  sisters  were  received  into  the  Luther- 
an from  the '  Roman-Catholic  Church ;  he  made  good  progress 
in  the  Mission-school,  was  appointed  a  catechist  in  the  town  of 
Tranquebar,  and  in  1741  was  ordained  a  priest.  His  duty  lay 
at  a  distance  from  the  town,  and  he  was  most  diligent  in  visit- 
ing his  remote  district,  till  prevented  by  bodily  weakness  du- 
ring the  last  10  years  of  his  life;  he  died  in  October  1781. — 
Ambrose  was  also  received  in  1713  while  still  a  child  into  the 
Lutheran  from  the  Roman-Catholic  Church,  and  brought  up  in 
the  Mission-school.  He  first  learnt  weaving,  and  then  went  to 
sea,  but  as  he  had  no  inclination  for  either  of  these  modes  of 
life,  and  found  that  a  school-master  was  wanted  at  the  Mission, 
he  offered  himself  and  was  accepted  for  his  ability  and  good 
temper.  This  was  in  1733;  in  1740  he  was  sent  as  Catechist 
to  the  Mission  in  Cuddalore,  where  he  remained  till  1748,  in 
which  year  he  returned  to  Tranquebar,  and  was  ordained  a 
priest  in  the  following  year,  in  which  office  he  remained  for 
28  years  exhibiting  much  cheerfulness  and  sincerity.  During 
the  last  two  years  of  his  life  he  was  not  strong  enough  to  un- 
dertake journies,  but  he  continued  to  labour,  as  well  as  he  could, 
on  the  spot.  On  the  8th  of  February  1777  he  entered  into  his 
eternal  rest. —  Philip  was  born  of  heathen  parents  in  the  year 
1731  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Negapatam.  After  the  death  of 
his  father,  he  was  deceitfully  enticed  away  by  a  slave  -  dealer, 


—     283     — 

who  brought  him  to  Tranquebar,  whence  he  was  to  be  shipped 
off  to  Acheen;  but  he  found  an  opportunity  of  making  his  situa- 
tion -known  to  his  friends.  His  mother  came  immediately  to 
Tranquebar,  but  could  not  find  him  anywhere.  She  happened 
to  be  passing  Jerusalem- Church  one  Sunday  when  the  congre- 
gation was  leaving  it.  She  asked  one  of  the  passers  by  what 
building  it  was.  " It  is  a  Church  of  God,"  was  the  answer.  The 
troubled  mother  turned  towards  the  Church  and  prayed  thus: 
"  If  thou,  0  God,  who  art  worshipped  in  this  Church,  art  the 
true  God,  show  me  my  child."  She  then  went  on  to  the  castle 
and  there  met  her  son,  who  was  coming  out  with  the  other 
slaves.  She  flew  to  him  and  embraced  him,  and  applied  to  the 
proper  authorities  to  restore  him.  She  was  told  that  she  could 
not  get  him  back  again,  unless  another  were  supplied  in  his 
place,  and  the  affair  seemed  to  progress  very  slowly.  The  poor 
woman  thought  that  she  could  not  do  better  than  to  return  to 
the  Mission -Church,  lift  up  her  hands  and  say,  "  0  Lord  who 
art  worshipped  in  this  place,  if  thou  wilt  make  my  child 
free  in  ten  days,  I  and  my  children  will  come  to  thy  Church 
and  be  thy  servants."  The  boy  was  indeed  free  in  ten  days, 
but  the  woman  forgot  her^row,  went  into  the  country  and  sa- 
crificed to  the  idols.  Then  one  night  she  had  a  dream.  It  seem- 
ed to  her  that  a  man  dressed  like  the  Priest  whom  she  had  seen 
come  out  of  the  Church  in  Tranquebar,  appeared  to  her  and 
said,  "  You  vowed  that  you  and  your  children  would  come  to 
our  Church;  why  then  have  you  not  come?"  She  now  overcame 
her  fear  of  going  to  Tranquebar,  was  instructed  there,  and  was 
baptized  with  Philip  and  his  sister  in  1741.  The  remainder  of 
Philip's  life  is  best  described  by  a  letter  from  Missionary  Klein, 
which  was  written  directly  after  Philip's  death  on  the  Gth  of 
February  1788.  "Our  faithful  assistant  Philip,"  says  he, "was 

21* 


—     284     — 

taken  ill  the  beginning  of  this  year,  and  it  pleased  the  Al- 
mighty, who  is  the  only  true  God  and  the  Lord  of  the  vine- 
yard, to  call  away  this  his  true  servant  on  the  4th  of  this  month. 
I  was  very  much  affected  when  I  preached  his  funeral  sermon 
from  John  XII,  26.  I  have  preached  the  funeral  sermons  of 
three  native  priests,  of  Ambrose  in  Bethlehem  -  Church,  of 
Diogo  in  the  old  Jerusalem  Church,  and  now  in  the  same  of 
Philip.  Our  dear  Philip  came  here  at  the  age  of  10  years  in 
1741.  I  took  him  into  my  service  and  I  thus  gained  an  oppor- 
tunity of  grounding  him  better  in  knowledge,  and  of  encourag- 
ing him  to  a  pious  life.  He  was  afterwards  made  schoolmaster, 
then  town-catechist,  and  finally  priest  in  1772.  Herr  Kohlhoff 
baptized  and  ordained  him,  and  therefore  he,  like  myself,  feels 
his  death  very  much.  Oh  how  willing  and  unwearied  was  Philip 
in  visiting  the  sick  and  the  healthy  of  his  congegation!  We 
have  certainly  lost  a  great  deal  in  him,  and  have  no  one  whom 
we  can  put  in  his  place  with  equal  confidence.  Oh  how  great 
is  the  want  of  faithful  native  labourers!  "  —  Rayappen  was 
born  of  Christian  parents  in  1742.  His  grandfather  who  was 
of  high  caste  and  had  been  a  zealous  worshipper  of  idols,  was 
converted  to  Christianity  with  all  his*  family,  received  the  name 
of  Mark  at  his  baptism,  and  became  a  very  useful  catechist: 
he,  fortunately  for  Rayappen,  undertook  the  care  of  him,  for 
his  father,  Andreas,  was  a  very  different  kind  of  man.  He  made 
good  use  of  his  time  at  school  and  was  taught  the  art  of  print- 
ing. He  afterwards  became  teacher  in  the  school  at  Tranque- 
bar  and  was  then  sent  as  catechist  to  Tanjore,  where  Schwartz 
gave  him  a  very  good  character.  In  1778  he  was  ordained  a 
priest,  and  was  a  very  earnest  worker.  It  has  been  already 
remarked  that  he  introduced  the  Gospel  into  the  South  of 
India  in  1789;  but  the  Missionaries  were  not  always  pleased 


—     285     — 

with  him.     Yet  they  remark  that  several  domestic  troubles, 
particularly  the  lingering  illness  of  his  wife,  produced  so  favour- 
able an  effect  on  him  that  he  won  their  confidence  again,  made 
progress  in.  Christianity,  and  applied  himself  diligently  to  the 
duties  of  his  calling.     On  the  25th  of  March  1797  he  died 
suddenly,  and  was  buried  in  the  church -yard  of  Bethlehem 
Church.    —    Schawrirayen  distinguished  himself  as  a  town- 
catechist  in  Tranquebar.  Missionary  John  says  of  him  in  1792 
that  he  far  surpassed  Rayappen  both  in  ability  and  activity, 
and  besides  this  understood  German;  but  that  they  would  not 
ordain  him  for  fear  of  displeasing  Rayappen,  and  also  because 
the  hope  of  being  some  day  ordained  incited  him  to  greater  use- 
fulness. Rayappen  died  and  still  Schawrirayen  was  not  ordained, 
because  he  was  too  useful  as  head-catechist  to  be  spared.    The 
ordination  of  this  excellent  catechist  was  still  delayed  in  1809, 
though  it  had  been  approved  of  by  the  Mission-College  for  ten 
years,  but  he  was  sent  round  to  the  Christians  in  the  country 
with  permission  to  baptize  and  to  marry.   So  far  as  I  know  he 
was  ordained  in  the  year  1813,   but  died  in  September  1817. 
After  him  I  do  not  think  that  any  Native  was  ordained  in 
Tranquebar.  * 

After  this  they  began  to  ordain  natives  at  the  other  Mis- 
sionary-stations, but  the  universal  experience  was  that  they  did 
not  display  any  independent  activity,  but  always  wanted  to  be 
led  by  the  Missionaries.  The  first  Native  who  was  ordained  at 
the  English  Mission  stations  was  Sattianaden,  who  was  ordained 
by  Schwartz  on  the  26th  of  December  1790  in  the  presence  of 
Kohlhoff  and  Janike.  He  was  destined  for  the  south  of  India, 
where  he  had  already  made  himself  very  useful  as  a  catechist, 
and  where  he  continued  very  useful  as  a  priest  until  his  death 
in  1815.  In  1811  Pohle  and  Kohlhoff  ordained  4  native  cate- 


—     286     — 

chists  *,  and  as  two  of  them  died  soon  after,  three  f  more 
were  ordained  in  1817  to  fill  their  and  Sattianaden's  places. 
I  do  not  know  anything  of  these  native  priests,  nor  of  their 
usefulness,  but  it  cannot  have  been  anything  remarkable. 

*Njanapragasam,  Adeikkalam,  Vedanaigan  and  Abraham, 
f  Nallathambi,  Abraham  and  Pakianaden. 


CHAPTER  XVI.' 

THE    TRANQUEBAR  MISSION    AFTER  1740  (CONTINUATION).  —THE 

MISSIONARIES  IN  TRANQUEBAR.— CHRISTOPH  SAMUEL  JOHN.— DECAY 

OF  THE  MISSION.— GLIMPSE  OF  LIGHT.  —  CONCLUSION. 

Amongst  the  Missionaries  who  lived  and  laboured  in  Tran- 
quebar  after  the  year  1740,  many  true  and  faithful  labourers  are 
to  be  found,  bat  not  one  who  distinguished  himself  much  above 
the  rest,  excepting  C.  S.  John.  I  must  however  bring  forward 
also  the  name  of  0.  Maderup,  not  indeed  because  he  surpassed 
the  rest,  but  because  he  was  one  of  the  very  few  who  thought 
of  writing  anything  in  Danish  on  the  subject  of  the  Tranquebar 
Mission;  very  little  however  has  been  printed  and  the  greater 
part  has  scarcely  seen  the  light  of  day. 

Cliristoph  Samuel  John,  the  son  of  a  Clergyman,  was  born 
on  the  11th  of  August  1747  at  Frobersgriin  near  Greiz,  in 
Voigtland.  He  was  brought  up  in  his  parent's  house  in  the  fear 
of  the  Lord,  then  went  to  the  school  at  Greiz,  and  afterwards 
to  the  university  of  Kalle,  where  he  instructed  the  youth  at  the 
Orphanhouse.  In  1769  Professor  Knapp  sen.  proposed  to  him 
to  go  as  a  Missionary  to  Tranquebar,  and  after  some  considera- 
tion, he  determined,  with  his  father's  consent,  to  accept  the 
call.  He  was  ordained  at  Copenhagen,  and  arrived  in  India  in 
1771,  and  spent  the  remainder  of  his  life  there.  He  was  both 
a  clever  and  a  christian  man,  but  with  an  overwhelming  love 
and  ability  for  teaching.  The  Mission  had  from  the  first  devoted 


—     288     — 

itself  especially  to  the  schools,  but  under  him  this  tendency 
reached  its  highest  point,  and  it  clearly  proves  that  the  greatest 
attention  to  all  school-arrangements  does  not  suffice  for  the  well- 
being  of  a  congregation  that  has  been  lately  formed.  The  Mis- 
sion-College had  remarked  his  zeal  and  activity,  and  when  it 
requested  by  letter  that  oile  of  the  Missionaries  should  be  chosen 
to  carry  on  the  correspondence  it  was  no  secret  that  John  was 
the  person  desired;  and  when  he  was  chosen  it  was  soon  visible 
that  he  would  not  allow  this  opportunity  for  personal  communi- 
cation with  the  College  to  pass  unimproved,  so  that  we  must  expect 
to  see  the  history  of  the  Mission  wind  very  closely  round  this 
pedagogue.  In  his  very  first  letter  he  expressed  his  pleasure  at 
the  correspondence  being  confided  to  one  individual,  for  though 
1  the  Missionaries  were  united  at  heart,  they  were  so  different  in 
age,  temperament  and  feelings,   that  it  would  have  been  very 
difficult  to  compose  a  letter  which  should  embody  the  feelings 
of  all.  A  tone  of  complaint  prevailed.  The  College  had  remarked 
this,  and  expressed  its  pleasure  when  a  more  cheerful  tone  than 
usual  was  perceptible.     This,  says  John,   made  a  strong  and 
lasting  impression  on  me;  however  much  there  is  that  is  unplea- 
sant and  discouraging,  there  is  also  much  that  is  good  and  ex- 
cellent, which  may  well  give  cause  for  joy,  praise  and  hope. 

John's  cheerful  views  were  connected  almost  entirely  with 
the  instruction  of  youth,  into  which  he  threw  all  his  powers  and 
it  was  not  only  for  the  children  of  the  Natives,  but  he  opened 
his  house  to  the  children  of  the  Europeans,  making  it  a  regular 
educational  establishment.  He  was  induced  to  do  this  by  the 
pleasure  that  he  took  in  it,  and  by  the  desire  of  obtaining  a  com- 
fortable subsistence.  During  the  first  sixyears  of  his  stay  in  India, 
his  salary  was  only  250  Rix  dollars,  w]iich  obliged  him,  he  says, 
to  wear  dirty  clothes,  and  to  make  known  that  he  was  in  want 


—     289     — 

of  linen,  clothes,  tea  and  sugar,  and  though  his  rich  neighbours 
sometimes  made  him  presents  of  these  articles,  he  received  them 
with  inward  shame,  for  he  would  much  better  have  liked  to  give 
than  to  receive.     He  found  an  opportunity  for  marrying,  and 
though  on  the  one  hand  he  was  very  fortunate,  he  was  very  un- 
fortunate on  the  other,  for  their  income  was  so  small  that  the 
young  pair  had  to  sigh  over  their  troubles;  they  presented  them 
to  God  in  prayer  and  wrote  about  them  to  Europe,  but  as  help 
could  not  arrive  for  a  long  time,  John  went  out  and  collected  shells 
and  such  like  curiosities,  by  which  he  made  some  hundred  dollars 
which  enabled  him  to  pay  off  his  debts.     At  last  a  more  suitable 
means  of  earning  money  appeared,  when  his  school-arrangements 
were  set  to  work  and  brought  him  a  regular  income.  His  colleagues 
were  not  pleased  with  all  this,  as  John  himself  writes: — "My  Eu- 
ropean school  met  with  opposition  in  our  little  circle  six  years 
ago,  or  the  others,  with  very  good  intentions,  thought  it  was  not 
suitable  to  my  profession,  and  that  it  might  even  be  considered 
as  hurtful  to  future  Missionaries  and  to  the  whole  Mission.  These 
fears  increased,  when  I  bought  a  large  school  house  at  my  own 
risk,  kept  a  carriage  and  horses  for  the  better  class  of  children 
and  my  own  family,  improved  my  housekeeping  so  as  to  make 
it  suitable  to  the  rank  of  the  children  and  my  own  income,  re- 
ceived several  families  who  had  fled  from  Negapatam,  allowed 
my  house  to  be  filled  with  their  property,  and  besides  my  own 
eighteen  European  and  nearly  as  many  Malabar  children,  em- 
ployed about  60  workmen  from  the  Poor  Institution  in  my  gar- 
den, and  even  desired  that  several  children  out  of  our  school 
should  learn  to  work  with  them.  I  did  not  trouble  mvsclf  about 
what  any  one  might  think  of  this,   but  only  took  care  that  no 
one  should  be  able  to  accuse  me  of  any  neglect  of  my  duty; 
though  being  then  in  the  yearly  receipt  of  3000  Rix-dollars  I 


—     290     — 

might  have  dispensed  with  the  Mission  altogether.  These  ad- 
vantageous circumstances  enabled  me  to  carry  out  comfortably 
various  plans  from  which  my  bitter  poverty  had  hindered  me 
before,  for  I  could  now  venture  on  doing  good  when  I  had  not 
to  reckon  so  very  closely  as  to  50  or  100  dollars,  and  considering 
the  poor  and  exhausted  state  of  the  Mission  -  chest,  this  was  a 
great  advantage  in  any  proposition  for  the  advantage  of  the 
Mission  or  the  Native  youth.  But  to  humble  my  pride,  one 
stroke  came  after  another.  I  fell  ill  often  myself;  thirteen  children 
lay  ill  at  one  time,  and  God  took  from  me  all  my  own  three 
children  in  the  space  of  one  year,  which  so  overcame  my  cheer- 
fulness and  joyous  hopes,  that  I  had  written  by  that  man-of-war 
which  was  wrecked,  asking  for  my  recall  in  most  melancholy 
tones,  for  I  considered  myself  as  an  useless  burden  for  the 
future.  It  is  no  wonder  then  that  I  was  pleased  when  the  parents 
took  away  half  my  boarders,  for  I  wished  them  all  away,  that 
there  might  be  no  obstacles  to  prevent  me  from  returning  to 
my  sister  at  Frobersgriin  to  grieve  away  my  remaining  days, 
which  I  fancied  would  be  but  few.  But  God  had  humbled  me 
for  my  benefit  and  again  has  granted  me  health  and  cheerfulness 
and  strength,  also  two  children,  a  son  and  a  daughter  —  I 
expect  a  third  with  the  New  year — so  that  he  has  made  me  quite 
a  recovered  Job  and  has  blessed  me." 

John  goes  on  to  relate  that  he  sold  the  school-house,  which 
had  now  become  too  large  for  himself  and  nine  children,  and 
again  occupied  the  smaller  house  in  which  he  had  lived  before. 
'  Besides  this,"  he  adds,  "I  have  a  little  piece  of  barren  sand 
outside  the  town,  which  has  a  beautiful  prospect,  and  where  I 
have  laid  out  a  garden;  this  when  the  house  is  finished  will  cost 
about  2000  dollars.  I  go  there  in  the  afternoons  when  school- 
time  is  over,  and  occupy  the  children  with  gardening  and  col- 


c 


—    291     — 

lecting  plants  and  insects  while  I  visit  both  christians  and  hea- 
thens. From  the  hill  there  I  overlook  the  sea,,  the  town  with 
its  surrounding  villages,  gardens  and  rice-fields,  and  I  think, 
"  May  I  but  be  permitted  to  do  some  good  here,  and  may  the 
whole  neighbourhood,  yea  the  whole  land  be  filled  with  the 
knowledge  of  the  Lord,  with  happiness  and  with  blessing!" — 
Our  congregations  and  schools  are  now  very  encouraging  and 
hopeful.  There  are  still  many  worthless  members  in  the  con- 
gregations whom  I  cannot  count  as  really  belonging  to  the  Mis- 
sion, but  yet  many  do  really  commence  to  walk  worthy  of 
Christianity  or  at  least  decently,  to  which  I  think  our  new 
arrangement  of  instructing  communicants  in  the  afternoons, 
throughout  the  week  before  the  Communion  and  otherwise  exa- 
mining and  exhorting  them,  has  greatly  contributed.  We  are  es- 
pecially careful  with  the  preparation  for  baptism;  we  try  those 
who  wish  to  be  baptized  with  various  works,  and  press  them 
closely  as  to  a  real  inprovement.  Nojdoubt  the  number  of  bap- 
tized persons  is  diminished  by  this,  but  the  spread  of  Christianity 
is  advanced  rather  than  retarded.  We  strive  to  keep  those  firm 
who  have  been  baptized  and  therefore  often  converse  with  them. 
Our  greatest  pleasure  is  derived  from  our  Tamil  school.  We 
do  not  know  a  single  negligent  or  unwilling  disposition  there, 
and  in  many  of  the  boys  and  girls  a  real  earnestness  and  fear 
of  God  are  to  be  seen.  Many  of  the  boys  surpass  their  teachers, 
and  the  girls  have  excellent  examples  in  their  teachers  and  two 
subteachers.  Modesty  and  diligence  reign  over  all  the  school- 
children. We  have  done  away  with  the  afternoon-school  for 
those  who  will  have  to  support  themselves,  and  substituted  the 
knitting  of  stockings  and  making  of  mats,  which  seems  to  have 
given  new  life  to  them.  The  frequent  illness,  the  cutaneous  dis- 
orders and  the  dirtiness  in  dress  which  were  formerly  so  trouble- 


—     292     — 

some  have  now  almost  entirely  disappeared.  The  Europeans 
rejoice  in  the  cleanliness  which  they  see  both  in  the  church  and 
in  the  streets.  Our  two  great  bare  school-gardens  are  now  pretty 
pleasure-gardens,  which  have  been  laid  out  by  the  great  friend 
to  gardens  and  children,  Missionary  Rottler,  my  Jonathan. 
When  either  of  us  comes  into  the  school,  the  joy  and  the  love 
of  the  children  to  their  teacher  and  father  is  most  visible.  We 
very  seldom  require  corporal  punishment.  Of  those  who  were 
brought  up  in  our  house,  one  is  now  an  excellent  catechist  in 
Tanjore,  another  is  a  skilful  and  highly-approved  interpreter  to 
government,twoare  servants  and  writers  to  European  merchants, 
and  two  are  useful  assistants  in  the  school,  while  others  are 
going  on  steadily,  and  if  not  citizens  of  the  kingdom  of  God 
they  are  at  least  useful  citizens  on  earth.  In  many  European 
houses  the  floors  are  covered  with  mats  made  at  the  school, 
which  cost  from  10  to  40  dollars  the  piece.  Here  and  there  are  bas- 
kets made  for  rice?  which  cost  about  4  dollars  each.  The  Europeans 
like  our  stockings,  of  which  20  pair  cost  30  Bixdollars,  and  we 
have  now  twenty  pair  making  for  Major  General  Abeste.  Many 
of  the  inhabitants  send  chairs,  beds,  palankins  and  sofas  to  our 
school  for  us  to  put  in  the  canework.  Herr  Rottler  has  laid  the 
foundation  of  a  stocking  knitting  establishment  amongst  the 
natives." 

The  pleasing  prospects  which  are  expressed  in  this  letter, 
were  soon  shaded.  That  John  meant  most  honourably  with 
all  his  efforts  in  favour  of  schools,  is  undoubted,  as  also  that 
he  continued  in  the  path  he  had  marked  out  with  great  zeal 
and  perseverance;  but  on  the  other  hand  one  cannot  wonder 
that  his  colleagues  (excepting  Rottler,  who  agreed  with  him) 
did  not  approve  of  his  plans,  and  that  his  educating  European 
children  w#s  an  especial  thorn  in  their  eyes,  for  they  might 


—     293     — 

truly  say  that  it  was  hurtful  to  the  Mission  even  though  it 
might  be  useful  in  itself,  as  it  must  unvoiclably  turn  his  attention 
and  that  of  his  colleagues  from  their  legitimate  objects.  The 
first  who  complained  of  John  was  Missionary  Hagelund,  a 
Dane  and  theological  candidate  from  Copenhagen,  who  came 
out  to  Tranquebar  in  1785.  "The  time  approaches,"  says  he, 
"in  which  I  can  hope  to  take  a  share  in  the  work  of  the  Mis- 
sion here;  it  therefore  seems  suitable  to  me  that  I  should  also 
take  a  share  in  the  correspondence  with  the  College.  Till  now 
I  have  been  a  silent  spectator  of  all  that  the  others,  or  rather 
that  John  has  undertaken,  and  have  also  watched  his  desire  of 
being  master  in  everything.'  So  Hagelund  continues,  but 
he  received  a  grave  reproof  from  the  College,  .and  died  the 
year  after.  But  it  is  easy  to  see  that  he  was  not  the  only  one 
who  was  displeased  with  John's  school  for  European  children. 
In  a  letter  to  the  College  he  speaks  of  two  hopeful  boys  in  his 
school,  Johnson  and  Lebek,  aged  17  and  15,  of  whom  he  hopes 
that  the  first  who  wishes  to  become  a  Missionary,-  may  receive 
the  title  of  co-rector  of  the  school  after  1790,  and  excuses 
himself  for  calling  it  my  and  not  our  school,  because  his  colleagues, 
and  especially  Kdnig,  will  have  nothing  to  do  with  it,  and 
consider  it  as  quite  foreign  to  the  purpose  of  the  Mission.  Not 
long  after  Konig  wrote  as  he  says  for  the  first  time  in  25  years 
to  complain  that  John  applied  to  his  schools  what  was  intended 
for  the  use  of  the  Mission.  The  College  turned  to  Profr.  Schultze 
at  Halle  to  explain  this  difference  of  opinion  to  them:  he  returned 
a  lengthy  answer  and  goes  back  to  show  that  Konig  and  Klein 
had  long  been  opposed  to  the  reforms  of  John  and  Rottler:  he 
does  not  altogether  approve  of  John's  conduct  towards  the  elder 
Missionaries,  but  does  not  consider  it  to  be  the  cause  of  their 
differences.  He  thinks  that  John's  school  is  an  useful  institu- 


—     294     — 

tion  to  the  country  gnerally  though  not  to  the  Mission,  as  the 
catechists  who  are  brought  up  there  leave  the  Mission-service 
as  soon  as  they  can  do  so  with  advantage.  The  school  had  not 
produced  a  single  native  priest.  The  school  was  disadvantageous 
to  the  other  national  schools,  as  John  attracted  all  the  most 
able  young  men.  The  work  amongst  the  heathen  suffered  in 
consequence,  for  though  John's  extraordinary  inclination  for 
school  -  work  had  given  new  life  to  that  department,  the  work 
amongst  adults  languished,  for  the  country  congregations  were 
only  visited  by  native  priests  and  catechists,  and  the  journies 
amongst  the  Heathen,  which  the  Missionaries  had  formerly 
found  so  useful,  were  almost  given  up. 

The  only  way  by  which  John's  school  might  have  proved 
useful  to  the  Mission  would  have  been  if  some  of  the  young 
men  educated  there  had  shown  a  desire  and  ability  to  take 
part  in  the  Mission  -  work.  But  this  was  not  the  case;  on  the 
contrary  Johnson  and  Lebek  of  whom  John  entertained  such 
great  hopes,  thinking  that  in  the  first  he  had  found  a  real 
Timothy,  were  indeed  sent  to  Europe  for  their  further  improve- 
ment, but  Lebek  turned  quite  away  from  the  Mission,  and 
Johnson  played  some  foolish  tricks  and  then  followed  his  ex- 
ample. "No  one  is  more  grieved  about  it  than  I  am,"  says 
John,  "for  I  had  taken  great  trouble  with  them,  and  since 
1790  had  been  their  principal  support.'  But  the  real  great 
opponent  not  so  much  to  John  but  to  the  whole  cause  of  the 
Mission  was  the  spirit  of  the  times.  A  mission  to  the  heathen 
was  such  a  ridiculous  idea  at  the  end  of  the  last  and  the  begin- 
ning of  this  century,  that  it  was  exposed  to  universal  derision; 
this  contributed  so  much  to  its  downfall  that  it  could  only  drag 
on  a  miserable  existence  as  a  sort  of  school  -  institution.  We 
shall  point  this  out  afterwards. 


—     295     — 

Already  in  the  year  1774  Professor  Freylinghausen  of 
Halle  grieves  over  the  universal  decay  in  the  Church,  and 
declares  that  it  is  daily  becoming  more  difficult  to  find  suitable 
and  willing  persons  to  send  as  Missionaries  to  Tranquebar.  He 
expresses  this  opinion  in  the  following  letter,  "It  is  true  that 
in  early  times  it  was  difficult  to  find  Missionaries,  but  it  is  not 
to  be  wondered  at  that  it  is  now  still  more  difficult,  as  many 
learned  men  impress  the  minds  of  the  young  with  ideas  that 
are  quite  contrary  to  the  Gospel,  on  which  account  the  greatest 
care  is  necessary  in  the  selection  of  candidates,  for  fear  of  be- 
ing deceived.  For  if  a  man  were  chosen  as  a  Missionary  who 
secretly  nourished  the  idea  that  a  philosophical  morality  were 
sufficient  for  salvation,  he  would  of  course  only  teach  the 
Heathen  what  he  himself  believed. '  When  the  Missionaries 
found  that  as  the  old  ones  died  away,  no  new  ones  were  sent 
out  to  replace  them,  because  suitable  people  were  not  to  be 
found,  it  naturally  produced  a  depressing  effect  on  them.  "Our 
position,"  says  Schwartz,  "is  rather  sad,  but  God  knows 
ways  and  means  for  sending  labourers  into  his  harvest,  though 
in  truth  sincere  labourers  are  very,  scarce.  The  condition  of 
the  Church  in  Germany  is  grievous:  they  have  invented  a 
gospel  which  was  unknown  to  Paul  and  the  other  apostles:  they 
cast  aside  the  precious  sacrifice  of  Christ,  and  the  powerful 
workings  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  Infidels  first  sought  to  overturn 
the  very  foundation  of  faith;  they  looked  upon  Christ  only  as 
a  good  teacher,  while  his  reconciling  blood  which  is  the  source 
of  all  salvation  and  blessing,  was  despised.  What  but  insolence 
and  carnal  feelings  could  arise  from  this?  But  a  Missionary 
must  beware  of  being  cast  down  and  discouraged  on  this  ac- 
count; for  here  especially,  it  is  like  a  poison  to  the  body  and 
extremely  hurtful  to  the  soul,  because  faith  and  love  and  hope 


•     —     29G     — 

arc  thereby  decreased,  yea  even  totally  ruined;  and  when  people 
see  that  we  are  discouraged  it  hinders  our  work  amongst  souls 
which  ought  to  be  our  joy.  If  anything  sorrowful  occurs  to 
me,  I  go  and  catechise  for  an  hour;  this  occupation  sweetens 
all  that  had  been  so  bitter  to  me.  A  missionary  must  not 
give  himself  up  to  repining:  we  ought  to  be  witnesses  of  our 
Lord  and  not  only  converters.  One  often  wishes  that  a  rich 
and  visible  blessing  might  follow  our  work,  as  when  Peter's 
sermon  converted  three  thousand  souls:  but  there  is  a  time  for 
sowing  as  well  as  a  time  for  harvest,  and  it  is  a  question  whether 
we  could  remain  humble  if  so  great  a  blessing  were  granted 
to  us.  It  is  best  to  work  diligently,  and  so  to  pray  that  God 
may  bless  our  work. "  Thus  Schwartz  comforted  himself,  but 
he  could  do  it  the  more  easily,  as  God  had  given  him  a  cheer- 
ful heart,  and  his  connection  with  England  was  much  more 
consolatory  than  that  of  the  Tranquebar  Missionaries  with 
Denmark  and  Germany,  where  the  falling  away  from  Christ 
was  more  general,  moreover  he  was  more  fortunate  in  his 
assistants  than  they,  never  receiving  such  an  unfit  one  as  Steg- 
mann,  nor  such  a  bad  one  as  Fruchtenicht.*  He  had  moreover 
not  to  do  with  an  unwilling  (not  to  say  an  ill-willing)  Government 
on  the  spot,  which  treated  all  mission  affairs  as  a  burden  and 
a  folly. 


*  I  must  unfortunately  give  a  few  lines  here  to  describe  that  monster  of  a 
Missionary  mentioned  above,  who  caused  so  much  trouble  and  did  so  much  mischief. 
Fruchtenicht  was  born  in  Hob  en  -  Westedt  in  Holstein,  where  bis  father  was  a 
Clergyman;  he  studied  at  Kiel,  and  received  the  character  of  "Capable"  when  he  was 
examined  in  1797  at  Gliickstadt,  Profess.  Schultze  at  Halle  accepted  him  as  a  Mis- 
sionary, and  says  of  him,  "  when  he  off  ered  himself,  I  examined  him  both  in  preaching 
and  catechizing,  and  both  in  these  powers  and  in  his  character  I  have  remarked  such 
qualities  that  I  cannot  but  entertain  the  best  hopes  for  the  future,  and  can  recom- 
mend him  to  the  College  as  a  Missionary".  In  Feburary  1799  he  arrived  in  India, 
but  not  at  Tranquebar,  for  the  ship  landed  him  in  Bengal.  On  the  way  he  had  preached 
at  the  Cape,  and  as  he  had  refused  a  sum  of  money,  the  Colonists  had  supplied  him 


—     297     — 

In  connection  with  what  I  have  said  on  the  decay  of 
piety  and  so  forth  I  will  here  relate  a  few  traits  which  will  no 
doubt  be  seen  to  be  characteristic. 

In  the  year  1791  the  Mission  Surgeon  Martini  died,  and 
eleven  days  after  his  death  a  son  of  Missionary  Klein  who  had 
studied  medicine  in  Europe  arriving  in  Tranquebar,  the  Mis- 
sionaries determined  to  appoint  him  Surgeon  in  the  interim. 
As  Klein  had  attended  medical  lectures  in  Copenhagen,  the 
Mission-College  applied  to  the  Faculty  there  for  their  opinion 
as  to  whether  this  was  a  prudent  step.  Professor  Kratzenstein 
was  deputed  to  answer,  which  he  did  in  the  following  words: — 
"I  do  not  know  Klein,  but  I  think  that  it  would  be  advisable 
to  grant  the  doctor  to  the  Missionaries  who  is  proposed  by 

with  wine  and  other  necessaries.     He  had  drunk  deeply  of  this,  and  continued  the 
habit  at  Frederiksnagore  where  it  was  soon  reported  that  he  was  a  drunkard  and  a 
bully,  who  had  no  objection  to  fight  with  pistols.     He  contracted  debts  and  placed 
them  to  the  account  of  the  Mission,  and  did  not  arrive  in  Tranquebar  until  October, 
where  his  fame  had  preceded  him.     On  his  first  arrival  however  he  was  very  diligent 
and  orderly,  but  he  soon  gave  himself  up  to  dnmkenness  again,  and  came  into  Church 
on  Christmasday  in  a  state  of  intoxication.     All  warnings  were  in  vain.      He  united 
to  this  disorderly  life,  the  greatest  shamelessness  in  his  pretensions,  scandalized  the 
congregation,  disgraced  the  Mission,  and  in  his  drunkenness  insulted  and  threatened 
his  Colleagues  in  their  own  houses,  so  that  in  1800  they  thought  it  right  to  suspend 
him.     Fruchtenicht  continued  to  live  as  before,  and   on  the  30th  of  January  1801 
quarrelled  with  two  Englishmen  in  the  public  street,  who  horsewhipped  him  there, 
and  he  bore  the  marks  of  this  chastisement  on  his  face  for  a  long  time  after.     The 
other  Missionaries  now  removed  him  entirely  from  his  occupation  and  refused  to 
give  him  any  more  pay,  but  the  Government  would  not  sanction  this  until  the  in- 
structions of  the  Mission-College  should  have  been  received,  often  reminding  the 
Missionaries  that  "they  had  never  been  willing  to  be  placed  under  the  Government." 
On  the  23rd  of  February  he  wrote  to  his  relations  in  Europe  intimating  that  he  was 
about  to  destroy  himself.     His  landlord,  to  whom  he  gave  the  letter,  sent  it  to  the 
police,  who  sent  people  to  apprehend  him  and  found  him  standing  up  in  his  bed  in 
his  priest's  robes  with  a  knife  in  one  hand  and  a  bottle  in  the  other: —  in  that  dress 
he  was  taken  into  the  Fort  at  midnight,     They  wished  to  send  him  off  in  the  ship 
"Christian  VII",  but  the  owner  did  not  like  taking  such  a  dangerous  man  on  board. 
He  was  therefore  still  in  Tranquebar  when  the  English  took  the  town  in  1801,  and 
Was  imprisoned  by  them  for  eight  days  for  striking  an  officer.     The  Missionaries  at 
last  got  rid  of  him  by  promising  him  a  certain  sum  of  money  on  condition  of  his 
giving  up  all  claims  on  them,  and  he  then  went  to  Madras.      How  he  was  treated 
there  by  the  noble  Gericke  has  already  been  told  in  Chapter  XIV.  Even  after  his  re- 
turn to  Hamburg  in  the  summer  of  1802  he  caused  considerable  expense,  for  he  re- 
ceived a  sum  of  money  to  induce  him  to  make  an  application  to  have  his  appointment 
cancelled. 


•,>i> 


—     298     — 

themselves;  for  the  situation  of  a  medical  man  in  Tranquebar 
is  not  an  enviable  one;  it  is  something  like  a  penitential  parish 
here.  Any  one  who  wishes  to  obtain  such  a  place  must  either 
be  a  zealous  Pietist  desirous  of  gaining  a  higher  place  in 
Elvsium,  or  an  enthusiastic  Linneanist,  like  Konig"  (who  had 
held  this  place  before)  "who  after  all  became  blind  and  died." 

That  a  Professor  should  laugh  at  the  Mission  in  this  way 
in  an  official  document  seems  somewhat  surprising,  but  it  had 
to  bear  with  unfairness  from  those  who  were  much  more  nearly 
connected  with  it.  The  Secretary  of  the  Mission-College,  Hee- 
Wadum,  writes  to  John  in  these  terms:  —  "It  is  quite  certain 
that  all  Catholics  and  Jews  who  join  our  Church  take  the  step 
in  expectation  of  some  temporal  advantages,  and  my  opinion 
is  that  any  one,  whoever  he  may  be,  who  has  been  faithless  to 
his  religion,  can  never  be  trusted,  and  I  think  that  he  would 
not  be  ashamed,  whenever  circumstances  might  make  it  advis- 
able, to  change  his  religion  again  and  again,  and  that  he  would 
be  able  to  perpetrate  all  sorts  of  villainy."  This  must  have  been 
very  edifying  for  John  to  read.  It  was  certainly  only  the 
Secretary,  who  was  writing  this  on  his  own  responsibility;  but 
yet  it  is  placed  in  the  letter-book  of  the  College.  In  a  letter  to 
his  successor  in  the  secretaryship,  Gude,  John  says,  "We  have 
painfully  experienced  all  that  you  say  about  Hee-Wadum's 
indifference  in  the  many  years  that  he  was  connected  with  the 
College.  His  private  friendship  for  me  never  gave  me  any  sa- 
tisfaction for  I  saw  how  shortly  and  coldly  he  dismissed  the 
most  important  points,  so  that  I  could  not  but  think  that  manv 
things  had  never  been  laid  before  the  Honourable  College. " 

But  now  something  from  Tranquebar.  —  When  the  Ca- 
techist  Schrey  vogel,  who  was  afterwards  ordained  as  a  Mission- 
ary, arrived  there  in  1804,  he  sent  a  report  to  the  Mission- 


—     299     — 

College,  in  whicli  lie  relates  that  public  opinion  was  adverse  to 
Christianity  and  more  especially  to  the  Bishop  Balle.  The  Bi- 
shop, as  one  of  the  Members  of  the  College,  heard  the  report 
read,  and  I  have  found  a  short  abstract  of  it.  It  was  probably 
intended  for  the  Bishop's  note  -  book,  but  he  must  have  left  it 
lying  by  the  report,  where  I  found  it.  It  runs  thus:  — 

u Schreyvogel.  In  Tranquebar  the  Bible  is  a  book  of  fables, 
and  the  doctrines  of  faith  are  despised.  Every  one  believes 
what  he  likes,  and  acts  as  he  likes. — The  Bishop  of  Copenhagen 
is  a  superstitious  man. — Behold,  such  is  Rationalism!  —  I  have 
known  this  for  a  long  time." 

It  is  not  my  intention  to  give  an  account  of  all  the  squab- 
bles between  the  Tranquebar  Government  and  the  Missionaries, 
which  arose  from  their  old  difficulties  about  their  rights  over 
the  Mission  -  congregation  and  other  subjects.  The  discontent 
was  mutual  and  the  two  parties  sent  home  accusations  to  Co- 
penhagen. I  have  seen  one  document  from  the  Government, 
with  Major  General  Anker  at  the  head  of  it,  dated  15th  October 
1792,  which  attacks  the  Mission  very  severely.  It  says  amongst 
other  things  that  the  converts  only  distinguish  themselves 
by  profligacy  and  disorderly  lives,  and  that  they  all  consist  of 
the  very  lowest  classes  who  present  themselves  as  candidates 
for  baptism  in  order  to  obtain  temporal  advantages;  it  is  added, 
as  if  by  way  of  excuse,  but  in  reality  to  make  the  accusation, 
more  biting,  that  this  could  not  be  attributed  to  the  faults  of 
the  Missionaries,  as  they  had  always  shown,  and  continued  to 
show  a  holy  zeal  in  the  discharge  of  their  duties. — On  the  other 
side  the  Missionaries  say,  "we  must  pay  some  attention  to  ge- 
neral rumours,  for  we  know  that  it  has  been  said  in  Europe 
that  no  one  is  so  bad  as  our  Christians  and  that  they  act  worse 
than  the  Heathens.  We  have  two  answers  to  this;  1st.  That  the 

22* 


—     300     — 

heathen  natives  settle  their  quarrels  amongst  themselves,  while 
the  Christians  bring  them  before  our  judges.  2nd.  It  is  right 
enough  that  more  should  be  expected  from  Christians  than  from 
Heathens,  but  not  satisfied  with  this,  the  Europeans  expect 
more  from  our  Christians  than  from  themselves.  Much  that 
was  Egyptian  clung  to  the  children  of  Israel  in  the  wilderness. 
We  feel  this  most,  as  the  suffering  Moses  did,  and  willingly 
leave  others  to  reason  on  it,  which  is  an  easy  affair." 

"We  have  a  regular  blacksmith  in  the  Government  now," 
John  writes,  u  in  the  Privy  -  Counsellor  Schmidt,  who  forges 
memorials  against  us,  and  seems  now  determined  to  use  the 
pen,  as  he  formerly  used  the  stick  when  he  was  a  sergeant.  The 
English  Missionaries  without  privileges  are  enviable  in  compa- 
rison with  us  who  have  such  noble  privileges.  It  would  be  bet- 
ter for  us  to  suffer  persecution,  which  at  least  would,  have  an 
end,  than  thus  to  be  roasted  in  the  fire  of  chicanery." 

This  was  in  1 801.  In  1 804  the  accounts  are  rather  more  cheer- 
ing. They  say  that  the  greatest  caviller,  Schmidt,  is  dead,  and  that 
a  letter  from  the  College  thanking  the  Government  for  its  care 
of  the  Mission,  has  had  the  best  effect,  and  that  General  Anker 
had  drunk  success  to  the  Mission  at  a  dinner  on  the  King's 
birth-day.  But  the  Missionaries  rejoiced  in  better  days  rather 
too  soon.  It  is  true  that  Schmidt  was  dead,  but  Lindgreen  was 
put  into  the  Council  in  his  place,  and  Rehling  was  made  judge. 
These  two  united  in  annoying  the  Missionaries,  and  encouraged 
some  natives  to  bring  forward  complaints  against  them.  They 
sent  a  complaint  to  the  King  against  the  Court  of  judicature 
which  they  said  the  Missionaries  held  in  Bethlehem  Church,  and 
against  the  punishments  dealt  out  there.  One  of  the  Natives 
named  Tiagappen,  made  an  especial  complaint,  that  the  Mis- 
sionaries had  taken  away  his  inheritance,  that  Cammerer  had 


—     301     — 

given  him  four  boxes  on  the  ear,  and  that  John  had  chastised 
a  woman  with  his  own  hands.  According  to  all  probability  the 
first  accusation  was  without  ground  and  false,  but  the  accusa- 
tions of  arbitrary  power  were  not  without  foundation.  Cam- 
merer  acknowledged  that  he  had  given  Tiagappen  a  few  boxes 
on  the  ear  on  account  of  his  insolent  way  of  speaking,  and  John 
said  that  he  had  given  the  woman  a  slight  punishment,  which 
in  his  opinion  had  prevented  a  much  greater  misfortune.  Reh- 
ling  now  instituted  an  enquiry,  and  treated  the  Catechists  and 
all  the  Natives,  who  were  favourable  to  the  Missionaries,  so  se- 
verely, that  they  in  their  turn  complained  to  Government,  by 
which  their  complaint  was  sent  to  Rehling.  Rehling  summon- 
ed them,  and  appointed  a  provisional  judge.  The  natives  were 
so  frightened  by  him  that  they  recalled  all  that  they  had  said, 
and  were  fined  two  Rix  -  dollars,  which  the  Missionaries  paid 
for  them.  This  affair  annoyed  the  Missionaries  extremely  and 
impeded  their  usefulness;  John  wished  to  go  to  Copenhagen  to 
defend  their  cause,  but  finding  on  his  arrival  in  Madras,  that 
there  was  no  ship  about  to  sail,  he  returned  to  Tranquebar. 

This  was  the  way  in  which  the  hundredth  Anniversary  of 
the  Mission  was  celebrated  in  Tranquebar.  In  the  English  Mis- 
sions it  was  solemnized  by  a  special  service.  u  The  consequen- 
ces," say  the  Missionaries  in  1807,  "are  that  we  have  become 
almost  desponding,  that  our  Churches  are  empty  and  that  Bap- 
tism and  the  Lord's  Supper  are  despised." 

Under  such  circumstances  we  cannot  be  surprised  to  find 
the  Missionaries  expressing  much  sadness  over  their  future 
prospects.  Even  so  early  as  the  year  1793  John  writes,  "  A 
new  honest  Missionary  would  be  a  great  comfort  and  help  to 
us,  but  if  no  suitable  man  can  be  found,  it  is  better  to  let  us 
die  out."  Some  years  later  his  colleagues  say,  "When  we  con- 


—     302     — 

• 

sider  the  universal  and  growing  irreligion  in  Europe  and  India 
which  threatens  to  carry  everything  before  it  like  a  torrent, 
and  which  we  cannot  withstand,  and  when  we  see  the  decay 
of  morality  in  this  country,  and  that  in  spite  of  all  exhorta- 
tions, prayers  and  warnings  it  ebbs  daily  more  and  more  in 
our  congregations,  we  feel  as  if  we  must  sink  under  these  ma- 
nifold troubles  which  we  can  only  lay  before  God  in  prayer. 
We  could  bring  forward  many  reasons  which  make  us  feel  al- 
most certain  that  the  Mission  is  approaching  its  end.  If  this  is 
the  will  of  Providence  we  cannot  withstand  it,  but  can  only 
grieve  for  our  congregations,  who  will  then  be  left  without 
European  teachers.  Our  christians  in  the  country  are  the  best, 
because  they  live  at  the  greatest  distance  from  Europeans;  but 
there  are  many  excellent  men  amongst  the  town  christians  also 
who  give  us  great  joy,  and  who  are  of  course  better  known  to 
us  than  they  can  be  to  strangers."  "  We  have  long  known  that 
those  who  convert  the  heathen  are  fools  in  the  eyes  of  many, 
especially  in  these  our  days.  It  is  true  that  much  folly  clings 
to  us,  but  we  shall  improve.  It  is  well  for  him  who  has  the  least 
of  human  weakness  in  him;  but  let  him  who  is  pure  amongst 
you  throw  the  first  stone." 

During  these  very  sad  times,  the  Missionaries  tried  to  be 
useful  to  science.  Botanical  and  other  scientific  remarks  are  most 
frequent  in  their  accounts  of  their  journies  which  were  published 
at  Halle.  They  were  in  many  ways  connected  with  learned 
men,  more  especially  with  such  as  were  interested  in  Natural 
History,  both  in  Europe  and  India.  The  botanical  collection  of 
Dr.  Bottler,  John's  conchological  and  Klein's  ornithological 
and  entomological  collections  were  of  great  importance.  Eight 
different  learned  Societies  voluntarily  elected  them  as  members. 
Profess.  Riidiger  of  Halle  sent  a  contribution  towards  John's 


—     303     — 

biography  after  his  death,  in  which  he  expressed  how  very  much 
he  had  been  indebted  to  him  during  his  36  years  correspon- 
dence for  much  light  on  the  subject  of  Indian  languages. 

Now  came  the  taking  of  Tranquebar  by  the  English  on  the 
13th  of  February  1808,  which  with  the  years  of  warfare  that 
ensued,  prevented  all  correspondence  between  Denmark  and 
the  colonies.  The  English  Government  in  Madras  (according  to 
the  articles  of  capitulation)gave  some  support  to  the  Mission  in 
Tranquebar,  so  that  it  was  kept  up  by  incurring  some  insignificant 
debts  which  were  afterwards  paid  by  the  Danish  Government. 
It  is  very  pleasant  to  know  that  the  King  of  Tanjore  was  one 
of  those  who  assisted  it  in  its  day  of  necessity,  for  he  could 
never  forget  what  he  owed  to  Schwartz,  and  was  always  a  li- 
beral contributor  though  he  never  embraced  Christianity.  John 
was  now  old,  and  weakened  by  sickness  and  anxiety,  caused 
especially  by  the  misconduct  of  his  son;  but  even  in  his  weak- 
ness activity  was  his  delight,  and  schools  were  the  apple  of  his 
eye.  Five  or  six  years  before  his  death  he  founded  some  free 
schools  for  children  of  all  classes  in  Tranquebar  and  Tanjore. 
These  schools  made  progress,  and  the  "Remarks  on  Indian  ci- 
vilization" which  John  published,  attracted  much  attention;  but 
they  did  not  do  any  good  to  the  Mission.  His  eyes  had  long 
been  weak  and  at  last  he  became  quite  blind,  but  was 
sometimes  led  into  the  pulpit  that  he  might  address  the  con- 
gregation. He  longed  for  his  release,  spoke  of  his  death  daily, 
and  only  prayed  to  God  that  his  sufferings  might  not  be  long. 
The  prayer  was  heard,  for  he  died  suddenly  from  apoplexy  on 
the  1st  of  September  1813.  ** 

After  John's  death  Cammerer  managed  the  schools  to- 
gether with  the  whole  of  the  Mission.  In  May  1820  (the  Mis- 
sion having  been  placed  entirely  under  the  Government)  he  gave 


—     304     — 

up  to  the  Society  for  Promoting  Christian  [Knowledge  1300 
Christians,  11  Catechists,  and  11  small  Churches  with  the  pro- 
perty belonging  to  the  latter,  as  these  natives  were  English 
subjects  in  Tanjore.  "The  Mission  in  Tranquebar,"  he  writes, 
"the  Mother  of  all  others,  must  now  sink  down  to  be  a  small 
institution  in  one  place  only." 

A  great  change  was  preparing  in  East  Indian  Missions, 
for  many  Societies  had  taken  firm  root  there,  and  now  carry* 
on  their  work  on  very  different  principles,  but  it  is  remarkable 
that  a  Missionary  of  the  old  stock  remained  till  very  lately  at 
every  one  of  the  head-stations  of  the  old  Mission  at  Tranquebar, 
Madras  and  Tanjore.  Bottler  was  in  Madras;  he  first  came  out 
to  Tranquebar  in  1776,  but  after  Gericke's  death  he  went  to 
Madras  where  he  remained  until  he  died  in  1836,  aged  87. 
Cammerer  was  in  Tranquebar;  he  had  embraced  the  calling  of  a 
Missionary  in  1789,  and  continued  at  his  post  till  1837  when  he 
died,  aged  70.  And  so  far  as  I  know  the  younger  Kohlhoff  is  still 
(in  1843)  in  Tanjore,  at  least  I  have  not  heard  of  his  death:  he 
is  a  son  of  the  old  Missionary  Kohlhoff  who  celebrated  his  jubilee 
at  his  son's  ordination  in  1787.    The  ministry  of  the  father  and 
son  embraces  a  space  of  more  than  a  hundred  years.      I  hope 
therefore  that  however  many  things  are  to  be  tried  in  the  Indian 
Mission  field,  messengers  will  still  be  sent  out  who  will  join  the  old 
Mission  and  continue  its  work.  We  Danes  seem  to  have  a  particu- 
lar call  to  this;  a  call  which  we  must  not  neglect. 

It  was,  however,  very  near  being  neglected.  In  1824  the 
Tranquebar  Government  proposed  nothing  less  than  that  the 
Mission  should  cease  altogether  as  an  institution  for  making 
converts,  and  that  schools  should  be  founded  in  which  all  use- 

*See  what  Missionary  Corcles  says  of  the  impression  made  on  him  by  the  ac- 
tivity of  the  various  Societies  in  Madras:  Dresden  Mission  Report  1841. 


—    305     — 

ful  knowledge  should  be  taught,  and  which  would  prepare  the 
way  for  a  real  extension  of  Christianity  amongst  the  natives  at 
some  future  day.  The  Mission-College  yielded  to  this  proposal 
(which  was  not  opposed  by  Cammerer)  so  far  as  to  agree 
that  the  schools  should  for  the  future  be  their  principal  object, 
but  would  not  agree  to  the  efforts  for  conversion  being  given 
up.  The  Government  had  suggested  that  the  name  "Mission- 
ary" should  be  retained,  as  being  much  respected  in  the  coun- 
try, and  the  College  thought  that  on  the  same  grounds  the 
name  "  Mission"  ought  not  to  be  given  up.  "Times  may  change," 
it  was  said,  "and  in  better  days  more  extensive  efforts  for  the 
spread  of  Christianity  may  be  united  to  this  name.  All  history 
proves  how  much  there  often  is  in  a  name,  and  now  that  the 
attention  of  all,  but  more  especially  of  Protestant  European  is 
turned  towards  Missions,  and  when  they  are  more  supported 
and  favoured  than  they  had  been  for  the  last  thirty  years,  it 
would  awaken  an  unpleasant  feeling  if  this  name  were  given  up 
by  the  Danish  Government."  The  Mission  was  then  placed  on 
a  new  footing  by  a  Royal  Resolution  of  the  18th  of  May  1825, 
by  which  the  Pastorate  of  Zion  Church  and  the  office  of  the 
first  Missionary  were  united,  and  in  which  it  was  declared  that 
"  the  spiritual  pastors  who  bear  the  name  "Missionary"  in 
Tranquebar  are  to  make  efforts  for  the  conversion  of  the  hea- 
then only  where  they  can  hope  to  succeed  and  where  the  moral 
character  of  the  persons  seems  to  call  for  it,  but  they  are  not 
to  expect  any  money  to  be  spent  on  the  extension  of  Christianity." 
Cammerer  had  already  petitioned  for  his  discharge,  but  in  1821 
he  received  the  Royal  permission  to  continue  to  work  as  a  Mis- 
sionary for  his  pension.  Schreyvogel  left  in  1826,  and  entered 
the  service  of  the  English  Society,  which  placed  him  in  Trichi- 
nopoly.       He  sent  a  farewell-letter  to  the  Mission  -  College,  in 


—     306     — 

which  he  called  their  attention  to  the  sad  condition  of  the  Mis- 
sion and  schools,  and  to  the  fact  of  there  being  certain  people 
in  Tranquebar  who  were  trying  to  destroy  the  arrangements  of 
the  Mission.  The  first  .Dane  who  was  appointed  as  Priest  to 
Zion  -  Church  and  as  Missionary  was  J.  Ivarsen,  who  died  on 
the  voyage  in  1827.  His  successor,  K.  E.  Mohl,  did  what  he 
could  from  1829  to  1835.  What  has  been  done  by  II.  Knnd- 
sen,  who  left  Denmark  in  1837  and  who  still  holds  the  office,  is 
too  recent  to  be  matter  of  history.  Thus  much  we  can  say,  that 
affairs  are  looking  brighter  there,  and  we  can  certainly  say  the 
same  of  the  interest  that  is  now  displayed  in  Europe  towards 
the  Tranquebar  Mission. 

It  is  true  that  the  English  have  taken  the  charge  of  their 
stations  on  themselves,  and  therefore  wre  can  no  longer  hope  to 
be  assisted  by  English  money.  The  connection  with  Halle  may 
also  be  considered  as  over,  for  the  Directors  of  the  Francke 
foundation  have  thought  right  to  give  the  sum  which  was  at 
their  disposal  to  the  Mission  to  Borneo.  But  the  Lutheran  Mis- 
sion-Soeiety  of  Dresden  has  extended  the  hand  of  fellowship  to 
the  old  Lutheran  Tranquebar  Mission,  and  its  emissary,  Cordes, 
is  working  in  conjunction  with  Knudsen.  Our  Kings  have 
never  kept  back  their  promised  support,  but  have  been  willing 
rather  to  increase  than  to  decrease  it.  The  Mission -College 
has  not  only  recommended  the  messenger  from  the  Dresden 
Society  to  the  Tranquebar  Mission,  but  is  earnestly  contempla- 
ting such  an  enlargement  of  it,  that  at  least  one  more  ordained 
Missionary  may  be  appointed:  there  is  quite  sufficient  money 
for  this,  as  the  College  not  only  has  under  its  management 
the  regular  yearly  allowance  for  the  Mission,  but  the  interest  of 
all  the  legacies  that  have  been  left  to  it,  especially  of  Scholz' 
legacy  of  which  I  will  here  give  a  short  account. 


—     307     — 

Samuel  Scholz  was  a  rich  merchant  of  Br eslau,  who  when 
on  the  borders  of  the  grave  at  the  age  of  78  had  been  thinking 
for  many  years  of  making  some  donation  to  the  Mission;  he  con- 
sulted his  Confessor,  Archdeacon  Thinkel,  who  prepared  all  the 
necessary  forms  for  him,  though  he  thought  that  it  would  all 
come  to  nothing.  The  old  man  was  bowed  down  by  weakness 
and  illness,  but  in  1784  he  came  in  to  the  town  from  his  estate 
of  Langenau,  about  a  (German)  mile  and  a  half  from  Breslau, 
in  order  to  strengthen  himself  by  enjoying  the  ordinance  of  the 
Lord's  Supper,  and  bringing  with  him  8000  Bix-dollars  (equal 
to  10680  Rix- dollars  in  Danish  currency),  intending  that  the 
interest  of  this  capital  should  pay  a  teacher  who  should  faith- 
fully and  honestly  preach  the  gospel  to  the  heathen.  He  sent 
the  capital  to  the  Mission  College  with  the  remark  that  it  might 
be  increased  by  adding  the  interest  to  it  until  the  plan  could  be 
carried  out;  but  that  he  so  much  wished  that  something  should 
be  done  speedily,  that  if  a  suitable  person  were  selected  during 
his  life  time,  he  would  give  1000  Rix-dollars  more.  Scholz  died 
the  same  year,  and  his  plan,  which  would  really  have  been  the 
foundation  of  a  new  Mission,  was  never  carried  out;  part  of  the 
interest  of  his  legacy  has  been  given  from  time  to  time  to  the 
Tranquebar  schools;  but  as  the  rest  has  been  added  to  the  capi- 
tal it  will  be  a  most  important  assistance  in  the  proposed  ex- 
tension of  the  Mission. 

The  money  therefore  is  ready;  and  we  have  lately  had  such 
convincing  proofs  that  the  christian  people  of  this  country  are 
favourable  to  .the  continuation  of  the  work,  and  that  the  clergy 
are  giving  more  and  more  of  their  attention  to  it,  that  we  need 
only  point  to  this  fact  and  not  stop  to  give  proofs  of  it. 

But  we  suddenly  hear  from  a  meeting  of  the  States  at  Ros- 
kilde: — it  is  best  for  us  to  sell  Tranquebar,  not  merely  when  there 


—     308     — 

is  a  good  opportunity,  but  the  sooner  the  better  and  to  any  nation 
whatsoever.  I  have  gone  through  the  reports  on  this  subject 
in  the  States  -  Gazette,  and  must  say  that  I  have  not  found  a 
thorough  representation  even  of  our  political  and  commercial 
relations  with  Tranquebar;  while  our  ecclesiastical  relations 
with  it  are  not  touched  upon  in  one  single  word,  and  they  cer- 
tainly would  deserve  some  little  consideration  if  the  place  were 
to  be  sold.  The  paternal  care  of  the  Danish  Government  has 
introduced  the  blessings  of  Christianity  amongst  a  heathen  peo- 
ple, but  the  congregation  which  it  has  formed  has  not  developed 
so  far  as  to  be  able  to  stand  alone;  on  the  contrary  it  will  re- 
quire the  superintendence  and  protection  of  the  Mother-Church 
for  many  years  more.  Under  such  circumstances,  it  would  argue 
us  to  be  very  hard-hearted  did  we  neglect  the  work  which  our 
fathers  have  begun,  and  expose  the  Mission,  much  weakened  by 
its  long  and  almost  mortal  sickness,  to  the  chance-favours  of 
the  new  purchasers  of  the  town.  I  must  say  therefore,  looking 
back  on  historical  associations,  and  casting  a  glance  on  our  pre- 
sent ecclesiastical  connection  with  our  colonies:  Do  not  sell 
Tranquebar! 

It  may  truly  be  said  that  the  Mission  proposed  by  Frederic 
IV  has  won  for  us  a  far-spread  and  European  fame;  but  with- 
out overstepping  the  truth  we  may  add  to  this,  that  we  have  in 
this  particular  received  more  honour  than  we  deserved.  I  have 
shown  in  this  history  that  the  work  was  good  and  has  been 
blessed.  I  have  not  hidden  the  faults  and  foibles  of  those  who 
were  engaged  in  it,  but  have  described  them  as  truth  required 
me.  For  the  future  we  will  endeavour  to  deserve  that  honour 
which  Europe  has  hitherto  awarded  but  too  liberally  to  the 
Tranquebar  Mission. 


APPENDIX  I. 


Royal  Declaration  and  Instruction  given  by 
Frederick  IV.  to  the  first  Missionaries. 

(translated from  an  old  Manuscript  in  Mr.  Eibye's  possession.) 

We,  Frederick  IV  etc.,  do  hereby  make  known  to  all  con- 
cerned, that  We  in  Our  Royal  favour  have  engaged  and  ap- 
pointed, and  do  herewith  engage  and  appoint  Mr.  Bartholomew 
Ziegenbalg,  to  go  as  a  Missionary  from  here  to  Eastern  India, 
and  there  to  apply  himself  with  all  diligence  to  instruct  the  hea- 
thens who  dwell  within  Our  territory  and  on  the  borders  there- 
of, in  the  holy  doctrine,  as  set  forth  in  God's  Word  and  pro- 
fessed in  the  Symbolic  Books  of  this  realm  agreeing  to  the 
Augsburg  Confession,  and  to  bring  them  to  the  knowledge  of 
salvation,  according  to  the  further  terms  of  the  Instruction, 
which  We  in  Our  Royal  favour  shall  for  that  purpose  communi- 
cate to  him.   Our  greeting  etc. 

Copenhagen,  17.  Nov.  1705. 

A  Royal  letter,  worded  like  this,  was  written  for  Mr.  Henry  PiUtschau  on  the 
same  day. 


Instruction 

according  to  which 
We,  Frederick  IV,  King  of  Denmark  and  Norway  etc., 
do  in  Our  Royal  favour  desire,  that  Mr.  Henry  Pliitschau,  born 
in  Mecklenburg,  whom  we  have  resolved  to  send  to  Eastern 


310     — 

India  as  a  Missionary,  should  with  all  submission  conduct  him- 
self on  his  voyage  out  to  and  there  in  India,  until  Our  further 
Royal  orders. 

1,  He  shall,  on  the  whole  voyage  out,  betake  himself  with 
all  diligence  to  those  on  board  ship,  who  have  been  in  Eastern 
India  ere  this,  and  who  are  somewhat  acquainted  with  the  na- 
tive language  in  order  that  he  may  learn  from  them  something 
of  that  language. 

2,  Having  by  the  grace  of  God  safely  arrived  in  the  coun- 
try, he  shall,  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  heartily  calling  upon  the 
same,  at  once  begin  the  work  for  which  he  is  sent  out,  and  shall 
labour  among  the  pagans,  as  existing  circumstances  shall  make 
it  practicable. 

3,  Although  it  is  of  some  help,  to  improve  the  little  rest  of 
the  knowledge  of  God,  which  men  still  have  by  nature,  and 
thus  to  lead  them  to  the  knowledge  of  God  which  he  has  re- 
vealed  in  his  Word, — and  it  is  left  to  the  Missionary  himself  to 
judge  when  and  in  what  manner  this  may  be  done  with  advan- 
tage, — ■  yet  he  shall  always  specially  betake  himself  to  God's 
Word,  not  doubting  that  God  will  make  the  power  laid  there- 
in prove  effectual  among  the  heathens. 

4,  He  must  hold  and  handle  there  in  Eastern  India  no- 
thing besides  the  holy  doctrine  as  it  is  written  in  God's  Word 
andrepeatedin  the  Symbolic  Books  of  this  realm  after  the  Augs- 
burg Confession,  and  teach  nothing  besides  it.  And  as  Christ 
himself  began  his  prophetic  office  by  preaching  repentance, 
and  commanded  his  disciples  to  preach  repentance  and  remis- 
sion of  sins,  so  also  he  must  follow  the  same  course. 

5,  He  has  to  instruct  the  ignorant  in  the  first  principles 
of  the  Christian  doctrine  with  all  possible  simplicity,  so .  that 
the  needful  foundation  may  be  laid  the  earlier. 

G,  In  order  that  the  poor  blind  heathens  may  understand 
that  the  Missionary  himself  has  in  his  heart  what  he  teaches, 
he  must  always  show  himself  a  pattern  of  good  works,  so  that 
also  bv  this  his  conduct  thev  may  be  won  over. 


—    311     — 

f  7,  He  shall  not  forget  daily  to  pray  for  the  cooperating 
grace  of  God  and  for  every  tiling  required  that  he  may  per- 
form his  office  faithfully  and  carefully,  and  to  call  upon  God  in 
the  name  of  Jesus,  that  he  would  bless  our  christian  undertak- 
ing with  abundant  and  happy  successes  to  the  salvation  of  many 
souls,  and  that  he  would  grant  to  Our  whole  Royal  house  the 
reward  of  this  pious  work  with  every  needful  blessing  for  this 
life  and  the  life  to  come. 

f  8,  He  shall  keep  good  friendship  also  with  the  Evangelical 
Pastors  of  the  place,  and  shall  gather  from  them,  as  from  men 
acquainted  with  the  country,  all  kinds  of  useful  information. 

f  9,  fie  shall  be  content  with  what  We  in  Our  Royal  favour 
have  granted  him  for  his  annual  pay  and  support,  and  not  take 
any  money  from  the  people  for  the  performance  of  his  official 
duties. 

10,  Whenever  a  ship  leaves  India  for  this  country  he  shall 
send  letters  therewith,  reporting  to  Us  according  to  his  Chris- 
tian conscience  with  all  submission  concerning  his  office,  its 
successes  and  its  hinderances.  In  the  same  way  he  may  add 
his  proposals  suggesting  how  this  new  undertaking,  which  can- 
not be  perfect  at  once,  might,  perhaps,  be  better  arranged  in 
future. 

11,  And  finally  he  shall  bind  himself  by  a  truthful  pro- 
mise as  in  the  presence  of  God,  to  obey  this  Instruction,  and 
with  that  intent  he  shall  subscribe  to  a  copy  of  it  in  his  own 
hand-writing. 

Given  etc. 

Copenhagen,  17.  Nov.  1705. 

Frederick  R. 

At  the  same  day  Mr.  Bartholomew  Ziegenbalg,  born  in  Lusatia  (Lausitz),  re- 
ceived the  same  Instruction. 

fThe  order  of  these  paras  seems  to  have  been  different  in  the  original.  We 
follow  rhe  order  of  the  German  translation. 


APPENDIX  II. 

List  of  Evangelical  Lutheran  Missionaries  in 

India. 


A.  The  old  Lutheran  Missionaries,  mostly  of  the  University  of  Halle. 

1.  II  Plutscliau,  born  at  Wesenberg  in  Mecklenburg, 
studied  at  Halle,  was  ordained  at  Copenhagen  1705,  embarked 
from  thence  on  the  29.  Nov.  1705,  landed  at  Tranquebar  9. 
July  1706,  left  India  again  15.  Sept.  1711  and  died  as  Paster 
of  Beyenflieth  in  Holstein  about  1746. 

2.  B.  Ziegenbalg,  born  at  Pulsnitz  in  Lusatia  (Saxony) 
24.  June  1683,  studied  at  Halle,  was  ordained  and  arrived  in 
India  with  the  former,  went  home  26.  Oct.  1714,  was  appoint- 
ed Missionary-Provost  and  was  married  at  home,  returned  via 
England,  landed  at  Madras  10.  Aug.  1716,  died  at  Tranque- 
bar 23.  Febr.  1719,  and  was  buried  the  next  day  in  New- Je- 
rusalem- Church. 

His  widow  remarried  1720  and  went  to  Denmark.  Of  his  3  children  2  died 
early.  The  eldest  was  afterwards  Professor  of  Mathematics  in  Copenhagen,  then 
for  a  time  Director  of  the  Danish  factory  of  Frederiksnagor,  returned  to  Eu- 
rope, and  died  1758. 

3.  J.  E.  Griindler,  born  at  Weissensee  7.  April  1677, 
studied  at  Halle,  was  ordained  at  Copenhagen  1708,  embarked 
there  17.  Nov.  1708,  landed  at  Tranquebar  20.  July  1709,  mar- 
ried 1716,  died  19.  March  1720,  and  was  buried  the  next  day 
in  New  -  Jerusalem  -  Church. 

4.  J.  G.  Bovingh,  a  Westphalian,  studied  at  Kiel,  was 
ordained  and  arrived  in  India  with  the  last  mentioned,  left  the 


31 


Q 


Mission  in  1711. — P.  Jordan,  sent  ont  nnordainecl  with  Griind- 
ler  and  Bovingh,  went  home  with  Ziegenbalg  1714  and  remain- 
ed in  Germany. 

5.  B.  Schultze,  born  at  Sonnenburg  in  Brandenburg  1689, 
studied  at  Halle,  was  sent  out  directly  from  Halle  via  Holland 
and  England,  embarked  at  Deal  20.  March  1719,  landed  at 
Madras  25.  July  1719,  was  ordained  at  Tranquebar  1720,  be- 
gan the  Madras  Mission  1728,  went  home  1743,  and  died  at 
Halle  25.  Nov.  1760. 

6.  AT.  Dal,  born  at  Anslet  in  Sleswick  (Denmark)  2.  April 
1690,  studied  at  Jena  and  Halle,  came  out  with  the  last  men- 
tioned, was  ordained  at  Tranquebar  7.  June  1730,  died  (unmarri- 
ed) 5. May  1747,  and  was  buried  in  New- Jerusalem-Church-yard . 

7.  J.  H.  Kistenmacher,  born  at  Burg  in  Magdeburg, 
came  out  with  the  two  last  mentioned,  began  to  preach  but  died 
unordained  16.  Febr.  1722;  is  buried  at  the  same  church-yard 
with  the  former. 

8.  M.  Bosse,  born  at  Nelben  in  Magdeburg,  was  ordained 
at  Copenhagen  1724,  embarked  at  Deal  (England)  15.  Febr. 
1725,  landed  at  Tranquebar  19.  June  1725,  married  1736,  was 
in  1749  discharged  and  recalled  to  Copenhagen,  where  he 
died  1750. 

9.  Ch.  Fr,  Pressier,  born  at  Perleberg  26.  July  1697, 
studied  at  Jena  and  Halle,  was  ordained  and  arrived  in  India 
with  the  last  mentioned,  was  married  15.  Febr.  1736,  died  15. 
Febr.  1738,  and  was  buried  the  same  day  in  N.  Jerusalem- 
church-yard. 

10.  Ch.  Tli.  Waltlier,  born  at  Schildberg  near  Soldin  in 
Brandenburg  20.  Dec.  1699,  studied  at  Halle,  was  ordained 
and  arrived  in  India  with  the  two  last  mentioned,  married  1729, 
returned  to  Europe  1739,  died  at  Dresden  29.  April  1741. 

11.  Andr.  Worm,  born  at  Neubrandenburg  in  Mecklen- 
burg-Strelitz  about  1704,  studied  at  Jena  and  Halle,  was  or- 
dained at  Copenhagen  1729,  arrived  in  India  8.    July  1730, 

23 


—     314     — 

married  29.  July  1732,  died  30.  May  1735,  and  was  buried  in 
N.  J.  church-yard. 

12.  S.  G.  Richtsteig,  born  at  Landsberg  on  the  Warthe, 
(Newmark,  Brandenburg)  1701,  studied  at  Halle,  was  ordain- 
ed and  arrived  in  India  with  the  last  mentioned,  married  26.  Dec. 
1731,  died  12.  May  1735,  and  was  buried  in  the  same  church- 
yard. 

13.  J.  A.  Sartorius,  born  at  Laufenselten  in  Hesse-Rhein- 
fels  21.  Febr.  1704,  studied  at  Halle,  was  ordained  in  London 
(hj  the  Lutheran  Court-Chaplain  Ruperti)  and  arrived  in  Mad- 
ras 1730,  where  he  remained.  He  began  the  Mission  in  Cud- 
dalore  1737,  died  and  was  buried  there  1738. 

14.  J.  E.  Geister,  born  at  Berlin,  studied  at  Jena  and 
Halle,  was  ordained  in  Wernigerode  (county  Stolberg)  1731, 
arrived  at  Madras  1732,  went  with  Sartorius  to  Cuddalore  1737, 
returned  to  Madras  1743,  left  the  Mission  1746,  went  to  Ba- 
tavia  and  there  embarked  for  Europe,  but  died  on  the  voyage 
1746. 

15.  G.  W.  Obnch,  born  at  Morungen  in  East  Prussia  20. 
May  1707,  studied  at  Halle,  was  ordained  at  Copenhagen 
1736,  arrived  in  Tranquebar  19.  Aug.  1737,  married  14.  March 
1740,  died  at  Tranquebar  3.  Sept.  1745,  and  was  buried  in 
the  N.  J.  church-yard. 

16.  J.  Chr.  Wiedebrock)  born  at  Minden  in  Westphalia 
9.  Febr.  1713,  studied  at  Halle,  was  ordained  and  arrived  in 
India  with  the  last  mentioned,  married  27.  Jan.  1740,  labour- 
ed at  Tranquebar  nearly  30  years,  died  7.  April  1767,  and  was 
buried  in  the  N.  J.  church-yard. 

17.  J.  Balthasar  KohUioff,  born  at  Neuwarp  in  Western 
Pomerania  15.  Nov.  1711,  studied  at  Rostock  and  Halle,  was 
ordained  and  arrived  in  India  with  the  two  last  mentioned,  was 
married  the  first  time  15.  Febr.  1741,  the  second  time  Sept. 
1760,  laboured  at  Tranquebar  more  than  53  years,  died  there 
17.  Dec.  1790,  and  was  buried  in  N.  J.  church-yard. 

18.  ./.  Z.   Kiernander,  born   at   Linkoping   in    Sweden 


—     315     — 

1.  Dec.  1710,  studied  at*  Upsala  and  Halle,  was  ordained 
at  Wernigerode  1739,  embarked  at  Gravesend  1.  April  1740, 
landed  at  Cuddalore  28.  Aug.  eod.  a.,  laboured  there  till  1758, 
when  he  went  to  Bengal,  where  he  commenced  the  Mission. 
For  further  particulars  see  pag.  241  etc. 

19.  J.  Ph.  Fabricius,  born  at  Cleeberg  near  Frankfort 
on  the  Maine  22.  Jan.  1711,  studied  at  Giessen  and  Halle,  was  or- 
dained at  Copenhagen  1739,  came  out  with  the  last  mentioned,  la- 
boured at  Tranquebar  till  1742,  when  he  became  B.  Schultze's 
successor  in  Madras,  died  there  (unmarried)  24.  Jan.  1791, 
after  more  than  50  years'  residence  in  India. 

20.  Dan.  Zeglin,  born  at  Stettin  in  Pomerania  26.  Aug.  1716, 
studied  at  Halle,  was  ordained  with  the  last  mentioned,  and 
came  out  with  him  and  Kiernander,  was  married  1.  March  1747, 
laboured  nearly  40  years  at  Tranquebar,  died  there  4.  May 
1780,  and  was  buried  in  N.  J.  church-yard. 

21 .  Okif  Maderup,  born  at  Maderup  in  Fnnen  (Fyen,  Den- 
mark) 29.  April  1711,  studied  at  Copenhagen  (not  at  Halle),  was 
ordained  there  1741,  embarked  there  (with  his  wife)  19.  Nov. 
eod.-  a.,  landed  at  Tranquebar  1.  July  1742.  His  wife  died  22. 
Dec.  1749,  he  remarried,  but  lost  his  second  wife  3.  Jan.  1766, 
married  the  third  time  9.  March  1767,  laboured  at  Tranquebar 
more  than  34  years,  died  there  20.  Nov.  1776,  and  was  buried 
in  N.  J.  church-yard. 

22.  Jac.  Klein,  born  at  Elbing  in  Prussia  20.  Jan.  1721, 
studied  at  Halle,  was  ordained  at  Copenhagen  1744,  embarked  at 
London  29.  March  1745,  landed  (after  along  and  dangerous  voy- 
age, the  ship  being  driven  to  Batavia)  at  Negapatam  3.  Aug. 
1746,  married  5.  March  1761,  laboured  at  Tranquebar  nearly 
44  years,  died  there  18.  May  1790,  and  was  buried  in  N.  J. 
church-yard. 

23.  J.  Ch.  Breithaupt,  born  at  Dransfeld  in  Hanover  (a 
relative  of  the  renowned  J.  J.  Breithaupt,  D.  D.)  was  ordain- 
ed at  Wernigerode  1745,  came  out  with  the  last  mentioned, 
learned  Tamil  at  Tranquebar,  went  to  Cuddalore  1747,  and  to 

23* 


—  aie   — 

Madras  1749,  where  he  laboured  and  died  17.  Nov.  1782,  after 
more  than  36  years'  residence  in  India. 

24.  Ch.  Fr.  Schwartz,  born  at  Sonnenburg  in  Branden- 
burg 26.  Oct.  1726,  studied  at  Halle,  was  ordained  at  Copen- 
hagen 17.  Sept.  1749,  landed  at  Cuddalore  30.  July  1750,  labour- 
ed more  than  11  years  in  Tranquebar,  commenced  (in  1762)  the 
Mission  in  Trichinopoly,  settled  at  Tanjore  1778,  and  died  there 
(unmarried)  13.  Febr.  1798,  after  more  than  47  years'  residence 
in  India.  (Compare  Chapter  XIII  pag.  199 — 236.) 

25.  Dav.  Poltzenhagen,  born  at  Wollin  in  Pomerariia 
1726,  studied  at  Halle,  was  ordained  and  came  out  with  the  last 
mentioned,  was  sent  to  the  Nicobar-islands  Sept.  1756,  where 
he  died  28.  Nov.  eod.  a.  (See  pag.  263.) 

26.  G.  H.  Conr.  Huttemann,  born  at  Minclen  in  West- 
phalia 1728,  studied  at  Halle,  was  ordained  and  came  out  with 
the  two  last  mentioned,  went  to  Cuddalore,  married,  returned 
to  Tranquebar  for  2  years  (1758-1760),  died  at  Cuddalore 
1781. 

27.  Pet.  Dame,  born  at  Flensburg  in  Sleswick  22.  May 
1731,  studied  at  Halle,  was  ordained  at  Copenhagen  1754,  ar- 
rived at  Tranquebar  1755,  died  on  a  journey  at  Tanjore  5.  May 
1766. 

28.  W.  Fr.  Gericke,  born  at  Colberg  in  Pomerania  5.  Apr. 
1742,  studied  at  Halle,  was  ordained  at  Wernigerode  1765, 
came  out  via  Hamburg  and  England,  landed  after  a  long  and 
dangerous  voyage  at  Point  de  Galle  4.  Dec.  1766,  arrived,  after 
some  stay  in  Ceylon,  at  Tranquebar  6.  June  1767,  went  to  Cud- 
dalore to  assist  Hiittemann,  whose  daughter  he  married,  labour- 
ed at  various  places  especially  at  Negapatam  until  1788,  when 
he  became  Fabricius'  successor  (and  chaplain  of  the  Female 
Asylum)  at  Madras,  died  at  Vellore  2.  Oct.  1803,  and  was 
buried  at  Madras.   (See  Chapter  XIV.) 

29.  J.  F.  Konig,  born  at  Konnern  near  Halle  26.  Oct. 
1741,  brought  up  in  the  Orphan-house  at  Halle,  ordained  at 
Copenhagen  1767,  arrived  at  Tranquebar  1768,  died  there  4. 
Febr.  1795,  and  was  buried  in  N.  J.  church-yard. 


317 


30.  F.  W.  Leidemann,  born  at  Stadthagen  in  Lippe- 
Schaumburg  6.  Jan.  1742,  stndied  at  Halle,  was  ordained  and 
came  out  with  the  last  mentioned  (and  with  D.  M.  Konig), 
died  8.  Aug.  1 774,  and  was  buried  in  N.  J.  church-yard. 

31.  W.  Jac.  Mi'dler,  born  at  Heringhausen  in  Waldeck 
24.  May  1734,  studied  at  Halle,  w~as  ordained  at  Copenhagen 
1769,  arrived  in  Tranquebar  13.  June  1771,  died  30.  Dec.  eod.  a. 
and  was  buried  in  N.  J.  church-yard. 

32.  Clu  S.  John,  M.  A. ,  born  at  Frobersgrun  near  Greiz 
11.  Aug.  1747,  studied  at  Halle,  was  ordained  and  arrived  in 
India  with  the  last  mentioned,  died  after  more  than  42  years' 
labour  at  Tranquebar  1.  Sept.  1813,  and  was  buried  in  N.  J. 
church -yard.   (See  Chapt.  XVI.^) 

33.  J.  Ch.  Diemer,  born  at  Gundershofen  in  Alsatia 
(Lower-Rhine,  France)  1745,  studied  at  Strasburg  and  Halle, 
was  ordained  at  Wernigerode  1773,  arrived  at  Bombay  Aug.  1774 
and  went  to  Calcutta  1775,  married,  returned  to  England  1785, 
came  again  to  Calcutta  1789,  where  he  died  1792.  (See  pag. 
244.) 

34.  J".  W.  Gerlach,  born  at  Schlitz  near  Fulda  1738, 
studied  at  Halle,  was  teacher  in  the  Paedagogium  at  Halle,  was 
ordained  at  Copenhagen  1775,  arrived  at  Tranquebar  5.  Aug. 
1776,  went  to  Calcutta  1778,  where  he  died  1791.  (See  p.  245.) 

35.  J,  P.  Rottler,  M.  A.,  born  at  Strasburg  (Lower-Rhine, 
France)  June  1749,  studied  at  Strasburg(notat  Halle)  was  ordain- 
ed and  arrived  at  Tranquebar  with  the  last  mentioned.  Laboured  at 
Tranquebar  till  1803,  when  he  was  provisionally  sent  to  Mad- 
ras, was  unconnected  with  any  Home-Mission  1806 — 1817, 
when  he  took  charge  of  the  Madras  Mission  under  the  "District 
Committee,"  died  after  60  years'  residence  in  India  24.  Jan.  1836. 

36.  J.  J.  Scliollkopf,  M.  A. ,  born  at  Kirchheim  in  Wiir- 
temberg  1748,  studied  at  Tubingen  (not  at  Halle)  was  ordain- 
ed at  Wernigerode  1776,  arrived  at  Madras  16.  June  1777, 
where  he  died  11.  July  eod.  a. 


—     318     — 

37.  Ch.  Pohle,  born  near  Luckau  in  Lower  Lusatia  (Bran- 
denburg) 9.  March  1744,  studied  at  Leipzig  (not  atHalle) ,  vi- 
cariated in  the  court-chapel  at  Wernigerode,  was  ordained  at  Co- 
penhagen 1776,  arrived  at  Tranquebar  1777,  from  whence — on 
Schollkopf's  death — he  was  sent  to  Trichinopoly,  where  he  died, 
after  more  than  41  years'  labour,  28.  Jan.  1818. 

38.  Lor.  Fred.  Rul/sen,  born  near  Haderslev  in  Sleswick 
7.  Apr.  1753,  studied  at  Copenhagen  (not  at  Halle),  was  sent 
(with  two  unordained  assistants  for  Calcutta)  to  Tranquebar 
where  he  arrived  16.  June  1780  and  died  of  fever  soon  after. 

39.  J.  Dan*  Mentel,  M.  A.,  born  at  Strasburg  (Lower- 
Rhine,  France)  13.  Febr.  1755,  studied  at  Strasburg  (not  at 
Halle),  was  ordained  at  Copenhagen  1780,  arrived  at  Tranquebar 
1781,  but  returned  1784  for  health's  sake  and  was  made  Joint- 
Pastor  at  Barmstedt  in  Ranzau  (Holstein.) 

40.  Pet.  Rubek  Hagelund.  born  (in  Denmark)  1756,  was 
sent  out  1785,  arrived  at  Tranquebar  1786,  where  he  died  1. 
Oct.  1788. 

41.  J.  Caspar  Kolillioff,  son  of  J.  Balthasar  Kohlhoff  (Nr. 
17.) ,  was  born  at  Tranquebar  (baptized  29.  May)  1762,  brought 
up  by  Ch.  Fr.  Schwartz  and  ordained  by  him  at  Tranquebar 
1787,  laboured  at  Tanjore  till  his  death  27.  March  1844. 

42.  Jos.  Dan.  Jdnicke,  (brother  of  the  excellent  Joh. 
Janicke,  Pastor  of  the  Bohemian  Church  and  Founder  of  the 
Mission  Seminary  at  Berlin,  who  died  21.  July  1827),  born  at 
Berlin  27.  July  1759,  studied  at  Halle,  was  ordained  at  Wer- 
nigerode 1787,  arrived  at  Madras  1788,  laboured  at  Tanjore 
and  Palamcotta,  and  died  at  the  former 'place  10.  May  1800. 

43.  Aug.  Fred.  Cdmmerer.M..  A.,  born  at  Wusterhausen 
in  Brandenburg  22.  June  1767,  studied  at  Halle,  was  ordain- 
ed at  Copenhagen  1789,  suffered  shipwreck  at  the  Cape,  arriv- 
ed via  Ceylon  at  Tranquebar  1791,  where  he  was  the  only  la- 
bourer for  many  years,  died  22.  Oct.  1837,  and  was  buried  in 
N.  J.  church-yard. 

44.  C.  W.  Pdzoldj  born  at  Weuchau  m  Lusatia  1764, 
studied    at    Wittemberg,    was    ordained    at    Wernigerode 


—     319     — 

1792,  came  out  married  via  England,  arrived  at  Madras  1793, 
learned  Tamil  from  Ch.  F.  Schwartz,  assisted  Gericke  in  Mad- 
ras, went  to  Calcutta  as  Professor  of  Tamil  in  the  College  of 
Ft.  William  1802,  "returned  1804  to  Madras,  where  he  labour- 
ed till  to  his  death  4.  Nov.  1817. 

45.  E.  Ph.  II.  Stegmann,  born  at  Cassel  1773,  studied 
at  Marburg  (not  at  Halle),  was  ordained  at  Copenhagen  1795, 
arrived  at  Tranquebar  1796;  being  unfit  for  Missionary  -  work 
he  returned  1797,  but  came  out  again  as  Pastor  of  Zion-church 
1799;  went  home  a  second  time,  was  Pastor  first  in  Jutland 
and  then  in  Funen,  where  he  died. 

46.  W.  Tob.  Ringeltaube,  born  at  Scheidelwitz  near 
Brieg  in  Silesia  1770,  studied  at  Halle,  was  ordained  at  Wer- 
nigerode  1796,  went  out  via  England  to  Calcutta,  where  he 
arrived  1799,  returned  to  England  1799,  joined  the  London 
Mission  Society,  came  again  to  India,  and  is  said  to  have  been 
killed  on  a  journey  into  the  interior  of  Africa  before  1820. 

47.  Im.  Go.  Holzberg,  born  at  Oberneuendorf  near  Grdr- 
litz  28.  Apr.  1770,  studied  at  Leipzig  (not  at  Halle),  was 
ordained  with  the  last  mentioned,  arrived  in  India  1797,  la- 
boured at  Tanjore  till  1803,  and  then  at  Cuddalore,  where  he 
died  19.  Dec,  1824. 

48.  Lamb.  Ch.  Friichtenicht,  born  at  Hohen-Westedt  in 
Holstein  1772,  studied  at  Kiel  (not  at  Halle)  was  ordained  at 
Copenhagen  1798,  arrived  at  Tranquebar  1799,  a  vicious  man, 
got  rid  of  1802.   (see  pag.  296-297.) 

49.  Christoph  H.  Horst,  born  at  Willenburgnear  Schwerin 
1761,  studied  Medicine  at  Gottingen,  joined  the  army  and  ar- 
rived with  his  regiment  at  Madras  1787,  joined  the  Mission 
and  was  made  Catechist  ("  Lector")  at  Cuddalore  1792,  re- 
moved first  to  Tranquebar  1803,  then  to  Tanjore  1806,  where 
he  was  ordained  by  Pohle,  and  died  18.  July  1810. 

50.  Dan.  Schreyvogel,  born  at  Lindau  in  Bavaria  16.  Jan. 

1777,  was  sent  out  unordained  as  Catechist  to  Tranquebar  1803, 

arrived  1804,  was  ordained  at  Tranquebar  1813,  resigned  and 

joined  the  English  Church  by  reordination  1826,  died  at  Pon- 

dicherry  16.  Jan.  1840. 


—     820     — 

51.  ChristL  Augustin  Jacobi,  born  at  Olbernhau  in 
Saxony  26.  May  1791,  studied  at  Leipzig  and  Halle,  was 
ordained  at  Copenhagen  1812,  embarked  in  England  1813, 
arrived  at  Tan j ore,  but  died  already  21  Feb'r.  1814. 

52.  J.  G*  Ph.  Sper Schneider,  born  at  Blankenburg  in 
Schwarzburg  -  Rudolstadt  1794,  studied  at  Leipzig  and  Jena, 
was  ordained  at  Halle  1818,  embarked  in  England,  arrived  at 
Madras  Nov.  1819,  went  to  Tan  j  ore  where  he  laboured  till 
1826,  when  his  connexion  with  the  Patron  Society  was  dissolved 
in  consequence  of  his  arbitrary  expenditure  of  Mission  funds. 

53.  Laur.  Pet,  Haubroe,  born  at  Copenhagen  1791, 
studied  there  (not  at  Halle),  was  ordained  at  Roeskilde  (Den- 
mark )  1818,  went  to  England,  arrived  at  Madras  Febr.  1819,. 
laboured  there  till  1827,  removed  to  Tanjore,  where  he  died 
1830. 

54.  David,  Rosen,  born  at  Ebeltoft  in  Denmark  1791, 
studied  at  Copenhagen  (not  at  Halle) ,  was  ordained  with  the 
last  mentioned,  and  arrived  with  him  in  India;  laboured  in 
Trichinopoly  till  1824,  then  at  Cuddalore  till  1829,  then  in 
Palamcottah  till  1830,  was  at  the  head  of  the  Danish  coloniza- 
tion-experiment on  the  Nieobar  islands  1831 — 1834,  returned 
to  Palamcottah  1835,  went  home  1838,  was  appointed  Pastor 
of  Lille  Lyndby  in  Zealand,  died  1862. 


B.  Danish  Clergymen  with  the  donble  office  of  Pastors  to  Zion  church  and 

Missionaries. 

1.  J.  Ivarson,  who  died  on  his  voyage  out  1827. 

2.  K.  E.  Mold,  came  out  1829,  went  home  1835. 

3.  Hans  Knudsen,  born  at  Copenhagen  11.  Jan.  1813, 
studied  ak  the  same  place,  came  out  1837,  laboured  faithfully 
and  successfully  for  6  years,  fell  sick  and  returned  May  1843, 
but  still  continues  to  prove  his  lively  interest  in  the  Mission. 
He  is  now  Pastor  at  Bregninge  in  Zealand. 


321 


C.  Missionaries  of  (tlie  Dresden  or  as  it  is  called  since  1848)  the  Leipzig  Ev.  Luth, 

Mission. 

1.  J.  II.  C.  Conies,  born  at  Betzcnclorf  in  Hanover  21. 
March  1813,  entered  the  Miss.  -  Seminary  at  Dresden  15.  April 
1837,  was  ordained  at  Greiz  26.  Febr.  1840,  arrived  in  India 
27.  Dec,  1840. 

2.  C.  E.  C  OcJis,  arrived  in  India  11.  Dec.  1842,  left 
the  Society  June  1859. 

3.  J.  M.  N.  Schicarz,  born  at  Hagenbiichach  in  Bavaria 
21.  March  1813,  entered  the  Miss.  -  Seminar v  at  Dresden  2. 
Sept.  1839,  was  ordained  at  Greiz  27.  April  1842,  arrived  in 
India  25.  Dec.  1843. 

4.  Em.  Dav.  Appelt,  arrived  in  India  6.  Sept.  1845,  left 
the  Mission  Oct.  I860,  and  went  to  South- Australia,  where  he 
obtained  a  Pastorate. 

5.  A.  Melius,  born  at  Baneik  in  Hanover  20.  Nov.  1819, 
studied  at  Gottingen,  was  ordained  at  Ratzeburg  1846,  arrived 
in  India  5.  March  1847,  was  disabled  bv  sickness  and  return- 
ed  to  Europe  Sept.  1850,  is  now  private  and  Prison  Chaplain 
at  Hanover. 

6.  K.  II.  Schmeisser,  born  at  FurthinBavarial9.  July  1819, 
entered  the  Mission- Seminary  at  Dresden  Sept.  1842,  arrived 
in  India  with  the  last  mentioned,  was  ordained  with  Appelt 
(Nr.  4)  and  the  following  two  at  Tranquebar  18.  Oct.  1847, 
died  at  Madras  3.  June  1848,  and  is  buried  in  the  church-yard 
of  the  London  Mission  at  Purse waukkam. 

7.  Ch.  Ft.  Kremmer,  born  at  Smalkald  in  Hesse- 
Cassel  8.  Sept.  1817,  entered  the  Miss.  -  Seminary  at  Dres- 
den 23.  Dec.  1843,  arrived  in  India  and  was  ordained  with  the 
last  mentioned,  laboured  at  Madras  from  1848  till  1858,  when 
he  removed  to  Tranquebar    (Poreiar.) 

8.  A.  Fr.  Wolff,  born  at  Wittlohe  in  Hanover  19.  Jan. 
1819,  entered  the  Miss.  -  Seminary  at  Dresden  Sept.  1843,  ar- 
rived in  India  and  was  ordained  with  the  foregoing  two. 

9.  Jul.  Glasell,  arrived  in  India  9.  March  1849,  returned 
to  Europe  1851,  is  Pastor  in  Gothenburg  (Sweden.) 


— '     322     — 

10.  J.  C.  G.  Speerj  born  at  Hohndorf  in  Silesia  1824, 
entered  the  Miss. -Seminary  at  Dresden  1845,  was  ordained  at 
Breslau  23.  Aug.  1852,  arrived  in  India  26.  Dec.  eod.  a.,  but 
returned  (consumptive)  May  1853  and  died  at  his  birthplace 

22.  April  1855. 

11.  Ed.  R.  Baierlein,  born  at  Sieraskowie  in  Poland  29. 
April  1819,  entered  the  Miss.  -  Seminary  at  Dresden  31.  Dec. 
1843,  was  sent  out  as  Missionary  to  America  1847,  where  he 
was  ordained,  arrived  at  Madras  17.   Dec.   1853. 

12.  C.  Al.  Ouchterlony ;  born  at  Stockholm  12.  Oct.  1826, 
studied  at  Lund,  was  ordained  at  the  same  place  1852  and  sent 
out  by  the  Swedish  Mission-Soc.  of  Lund,  but  this  Soc.  uniting 
with  the  Leipzig  Mission,  he  arrived  at  Madras  9.  Dec.   1853. 

13.  G.  K.  Lundgren,  arrived  with  the  last  mentioned 
but  returned  to  Europe  Jan.  1855,  is  Pastor  at  Marback  in 
Sweden. 

14.  J.  F.  Meisclielj  arrived  in  India  31.  March  1854, 
followed  a  call  to  South- Australia  Febr.  1860. 

15.  And.  JBlomstrand,  M.  A.,  born  at  Wexio  in  Swedenl9. 
Dec.  1822,  studied  at  Lund,  was  Lecturer  in  Lund's  Univer- 
ty  1846-1855,  was  ordained  there  20.  June  1849,  arrived  in 
India  12.  Jan.   1858. 

16.  II.  W.  Wendlandt,  came  out  (married)  with  the  last 
mentioned,  left  India  to  join  the  Hermannsburg-Mission  in  Af- 
rica Sept.  1859,  died  at  Emlalazi  in  the  Zulu-country  24.  June 
1861. 

17.  W.  Stdhlin,  born  at  Westheim  in  Bavaria  1.  July  1831, 
studied  at  Erlangen,  was  ordained  at  Munich  5.  Nov.  1854, 
arrived  in  India  with  the  foregoing  two  and  the  following  two. 

18.  G.  Ch.  Kelber,  born  at  Krautostheim  in  Bavaria  29. 
May  1828,  studied  at  Erlangen,  was  ordained  at  Anspach  1857; 
arrived  in  India  with  the  foregoing  three,  laboured  at  Madras, 
went  on  sick-leave  to  Europe  in  the  "Cleveland"  which  left 
Madras  in  March  1861  but  is  not  heard  of  since. 

19.  S.  Ryden,  born  at  Hestra  in  Sweden  24.  Dec.   1825, 


—     323     — 

studied  at  Lund,  was  ordained  there  1855,  arrived  in  India 
with  the  foregoing  four. 

20.  Jul,  Doderlein,  born  at  Erlangen  in  Bavaria  22. 
Aug.  1829,  studied  at  Erlangen  and  Halle,  was  ordained  at 
Anspach  July  1853,  arrived  in  India  27.  Sept.  1860.  With 
him  arrived  Mr.  Fred.  Hobusch  to  establish  and  superintend 
a  Mission- Press  at  Tranquebar. 

21.  And.  Mayr,  born  at  Ratisbon  (Regensburg)  in  Bavaria 
20.  May  1838,  studied  at  Erlangen  and  Leipzig,  was  ordained 
at  Regensburg  5.  April  1861,  arrived  in  India  4.   Oet.  1861. 

22.  H.  Schanz,  born  at  Schoneck  in  Voigtland  (Saxony) 
8.  Nov.  1834,  studied  at  Leipzig,  was  ordained  there  22.  May 
1862,  arrived  in  India  8.  Oct.  1862. 

23.  Am.  Nerling,  born  at  Riga  in  Livonia  (Russia)  11. 
March  (27.  Febr.)  1837,  studied  at  Dorpat,  was  ordained  at 
Riga  25.  May  1862,  arrived  in  India  with  the  last  mentioned. 

24.  R.  Handmanri)  born  at  Oschitz  near  Schleitz  27.  Febr. 
1840,  studied  at  Leipzig  and  Erlangen,  was  ordained  at  Schleitz 
25.  May  1862,  arrived  in  India  with  the  foregoing  two. 


Ev.  Luth.  Native  Ministers.  * 

1.  Aaroyi,  born  of  heathen  parents  at  Cuddulore  about 
1699,  baptized  at  Tranquebar  5.  Aug.  1718,  ordained  by  Pres- 
sier,  Walther  etc.  28.  Dec.  1733,  died  25.  June  1745,  buried 
in  the  old  Jerusalem  Church. 

2.  Diogo,  born  of  Rom.  Cath.  parents  about  1705,  receiv- 
ed into  the  Ev.  Luth.  Church  17.  Nov.  1713,  ordained  by  Obuch 
etc.  25.  Dec.  1741,  died  Oct.  1781,  buried  in  the  old  Jer. 
church. 

3.  Ambrose,  born  of  Rom.  Cath.  parents  1709,  received  into 
the  Ev.  Luth.  Church  8.  Aug.  1717,  ordained  by  Wiedebrock 
etc.  at  Poreiar  9.  April  1749,  died  8.  Febr.  1777,  buried  in  the 
church-yard  at  Poreiar, 


—     324     — 

4.  Philip,  born  of  heathen  parents  near  Negapatam  about 
1731,  baptized  at  Tranquebar  3.  Sept.  1741,  ordained  by  J.  B. 
Kohlhoff  etc.  28.  Dec.  1772,  died  4.  Febr.  1788,  buried  in  the 
old  Jerusalem  Church-yard. 

5.  Rayappen,  born  of  Ev.  Luth.  parents  at  Poreiar  1742, 
baptized  3.  Febr.  1743,  ordained  1778,  died  25.  March  1797. 

6.  Sattianaden,  ordained  by  C.  F.  Schwartz -etc.  26.  Dec. 

1790,  died  1815. 

I.  iV;a72apm^asam,ordainedbyPohleetc.>17.  March  1811. 

8.  Adeikkalam,  ordained  with  the  foregoing. 

9.  Wedanayagam,  do.,     died  about  1813. 

10.  Abraham,        do. 

II.  Schawrirayen,  born  of  Ev.  Luth.  parents  at  Velipa- 
leam  (baptized  26.  May)  1751;  ordained  1813,  died  25.  Sept. 

1817. 

12.  Nallathambi,  ordained  by  Pohle  etc.  Aug.  1817,  dnd 

1857. 

13.  Abraham,  ordained  with  the  last  mentioned. 

14.  Pakianaden,    do. 

15.  i\r.  Nallathambi,  born  1801,  baptized  at  Tanjore,  licen- 
sed as  Candidate  31.  May  1849,  ordained  by  H.  Cordes  etc. 
27.  June  1860. 

16.  A.  M.  Samuel,hoYn  at  Madras  10.  (baptized  18.)  Febr. 
1827,  licensed  and  ordained  with  the  last  mentioned. 


THIS  BOOK  IS  DUE  ON  THE  LAST  DATE 
STAMPED  BELOW 


AN  INITIAL  FINE  OF  25  CENTS 

WILL  BE  ASSESSED  FOR  FAILURE  TO  RETURN 
THIS  BOOK  ON  THE  DATE  DUE.  THE  PENALTY 
WILL  INCREASE  TO  50  CENTS  ON  THE  FOURTH 
DAY  AND  TO  $1.00  ON  THE  SEVENTH  DAY 
OVERDUE. 


DEC    I    •■ 


6Feb'56^T)f 


MAR  2  0  19bB  LU 


~K\m' 


6^ 


D  L 


.mi  -■■  -:e 


LD  21-95m-7,'37 


1 


■ 


j 


i 


YB  29345 


H  z  noun'  ^ft 


THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY 


