DOCUMENT_ID: charter1650
TITLE (as printed): "Grants of the General Court" (1636-1640); "The Act Establishing the Overseers of Harvard College" (8 September 1642); "The Charter of the President and Fellows of Harvard College, under the Seal of the Colony of Massachusetts Bay, and Bearing Date, May 30th, A.D. 1650" -- all printed together as part of Appendix No. LXVIII, "Acts Relating to the Constitution and Government of the College from 1636 to 1780."
DATE: 1636-1650 (the 1650 Charter itself dated "the one and thirtieth day of the third month, called May, anno 1650" [i.e. 31 May 1650], signed Thomas Dudley, Governor)
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://archive.org/details/historyofharvard00quinuoft (identifier: historyofharvard00quinuoft) -- Josiah Quincy, The History of Harvard University, vol. I (Cambridge: John Owen, 1840), Appendix No. LXVIII, pp. 586(tail)-591.
EDITION: Quincy's 1840 printing. Quincy's own headnote to Appendix No. LXVIII states these acts "have been carefully compared with the originals, in the records or on file in the office of the Secretary of State," and that this printing of the 1642 Act is "carefully copied from the act printed in 'The General Laws of the Massachusetts Colony, revised and published by order of the General Court, in October, 1658,'" with the earlier 1642 draft as recorded in the General Court records subjoined beneath it for comparison.
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (Internet Archive OCR of Quincy 1840, vol. I; not corrected)
TOTAL PAGES: 6 (pp. 586-591, this excerpt only; the volume is 590+ pages)
WORD COUNT: approx. 1650

[[p. 586]]

No.  LX  VIII.*  —  See  pp.  15,  33,  38,  68, 84, 90, 100, 108, 159. 

ACTS  RELATING  TO  THE  CONSTITUTION  AND  GOV- 
ERNMENT OF  THE  COLLEGE  FROM  1686  TO  1780. 


GRANTS  OF  THE  GENERAL  COURT. 

["  At  a  Court  holden  September  8th,  1636,  and  continued  by  adjournment 
to  the  28th  of  the  8th  month  (October,  1636). 

"The  Court  agreed  to  give  £400  towards  a  School  or  College,  whereof 
£  200  to  be  paid  next  year,  and  £  200  when  the  work  is  finished,  and  the 
next  Court  to  appoint  where  and  what  building."  —  Records  of  the  General 
Court,  Vol.  I.  p.  183. 

"  At  a  General  Court,  holden  at  Newtownon  the  2d  of  the  9th  month 
(November  2d)  1637. 
"  The  College  ordered  to  be  at  Newtown."  —  Ibid.  p.  204. 

"  For  the  College,  the  Governor,  Mr.  Winthrop,  the  Deputy,  Mr.  Dud- 
ley, the  Treasurer,  Mr.  Bellingham,  Mr.  Humphrey,  Mr.  Herlakenden, 
Mr.  Stoughton,  Mr.  Cotton,  Mr.  Wilson,  Mr.  Davenport,  Mr.  Welde,  Mr. 
Shepard,  and  Mr.  Peters,  these,  or  the  greater  part  of  them,  whereof  Mr. 
Winthrop,  Mr.  Dudley,  or  Mr.  Bellingham,  to  be  always  one,  to  take  order 
for  a  College  at  Newtown."— Ibid.  p.  213. 

"  At  a  Court,  holden  the  13th  of  the  first  month  (March)  1638  -  9. 
"  It  is  ordered,  that  the  College  agreed  upon  formerly  to  be  built  at  Cam- 
bridge, shall  be  called  Harvard  College."  —  Ibid.  p.  241. 

"  At  a  Court,  holden  the  7th  day  of  the  8th  month  (October),  1640. 
"  The  ferry  between  Boston  and  Charlestown  is  granted  to  the  College." 
—  Ibid.  p.  288.] 


*  This  Number  presents,  in  chronological  order,  all  acts  passed,  and  bills  pro- 
posed, in  relation  to  the  constitution  and  government  of  Harvard  College, 
from  its  foundation  in  1636  to  the  adoption  of  the  Constitution  of  Massachusetts 
in  1780.  Those  acts  or  parts  of  acts,  which  were  never  in  force,  or,  if  so, 
only  temporarily,  or  which  were  not  general  in  their  character,  are  printed  in 
smaller  type,  and  included  in  brackets.  Those  in  larger  type,  include  all  acts 
or  parts  of  acts,  which  were  regarded  during  the  Colonial  period  of  Massachu- 
setts as  the  Constitution  of  the  College,  and  comprehend  the  "  general  Char- 
ters," referred  to  in  the  Constitution  of  Massachusetts,  Chap.  V.  Sect.  I.  Art. 
II.  All  these  acts  and  bills  have  been  carefully  compared  with  the  originals,  in 
the  records  or  on  file  in  the  office  of  the  Secretary  of  State. 


[[p. 587]]

APPENDIX, 
THE  ACT  ESTABLISHING  THE  OVERSEERS  OF  HARVARD         NO.LXVIII. 

COLLEGE.* 

"  At  a  General  Court  held  at  Boston  in  the  year  1642.       The  act 
"  Whereas,  through  the  good  hand  of  God  upon  us,  there  is  a  f^ole^ 
College  founded  in  Cambridge,  in  the  county  of  Middlesex,  called   seers  of 

Harvard 

HARVARD  COLLEGE,  for  the  encouragement  whereof  this  Court  has  College, 
given  the  sum  of  four  hundred  pounds,  and  also  the  revenue  of  the 
ferry  betwixt  Charlestown  and  Boston,  and  that  the  well  ordering 
and  managing  of  the  said  College  is  of  great  concernment ; 

"  It  is  therefore  ordered  by  this  Court,  and  the  authority  thereof, 
that  the  Governor  and  Deputy  Governor  for  the  time  being,  and  all 
the  magistrates  of  this  jurisdiction,  together  with  the  teaching 
elders  of  the  six  next  adjoining  towns,  viz.  Cambridge,  Watertown, 
Charlestown,  Boston,  Roxbury,  and  Dorchester,  and  the  President 
of  the  said  College  for  the  time  being,  shall,  from  time  to  time,  have 
full  power  and  authority  to  make  and  establish  all  such  orders, 
statutes,  and  constitutions,  as  they  shall  see  necessary  for  the  in- 
stituting, guiding,  and  furthering  of  the  said  College,  and  the 


"  The  above  act  has  been  carefully  copied  from  the  act  printed  in  "  The  Gen- 
eral Laws  of  the  Massachusetts  Colony,  revised  and  published  by  order  of  the 
General  Court,  in  October,  1658." 

This  was  "  the  second  impression  "  of  the  laws  of  the  Colony,  and  a  copy  of 
it  is  now  preserved  in  the  Law  Library  of  Harvard  College.  Having  been 
revised  and  published  by  the  authority  of  the  General  Court,  at  that  early 
period,  the  above  may  well  be  regarded  as  the  exact  and  authentic  College 
charter  of  1642. 

It  is,  however,  deemed  proper  to  subjoin  the  act  as  it  was  originally  passed 
by  the  General  Court,  not  only  as  a  matter  of  curiosity  and  of  history,  but  be- 
cause, in  the  controversy  between  Dr.  Cutler  (see  above,  p.  560)  and  the  Over- 
seers (see  above,  p.  566)  both  parties  obviously  made  use  of  that  original  draft 
as  it  stands  in  the  Records  of  the  General  Court  (Vol.  II.  p.  24),  in  the 
words  following. 

"  At  a  General  Court  at  Boston,  the  8th  of  the  7th  month,  1642. 

"  Whereas,  by  order  of  the  Court  in  the  7th  month,  1636,  there  was  ap- 
pointed and  named  six  magistrates  and  six  elders,  to  order  the  College  at 
Cambridge,  of  which  twelve  some  are  removed  out  of  this  jurisdiction. 

"  It  is  therefore  ordered,  that  the  Governor  and  Deputy  for  the  time  being, 
and  all  the  magistrates  of  this  jurisdiction,  together  with  the  teaching  elders 
of  the  six  next  adjoining  towns,  that  is,  Cambridge,  Watertown,  Charlestown, 
Boston,  Roxbury,  and  Dorchester,  and  the  President  of  the  College  for  the  time 
being,  shall  have,  from  time  to  time,  full  power  and  authority  to  make  and 


[[p. 588]]

APPENDIX,   several  members  thereof,  from  time  to  time,  in  piety,  morality,  and 

°' |   learning;  as  also   to  dispose,  order,   and  manage,  to   the  use  and 

The  act        behoof  of  the  said    College,  and  the  members  thereof,    all    gifts, 

establishing 

the  Over-      legacies,  bequeaths,  revenues,  lands,  and  donations,  as  either  have 
Harvard        been,  are,  or  shall  be,  conferred,  bestowed,  or  any  ways  shall  fall, 

or  come>  to  tne  said  College. 

"  And  whereas  it  may  come  to  pass,  that  many  of  the  said  magis- 
trates and  said  elders  may  be  absent,  or  otherwise  employed  about 
other  weighty  affairs,  when  the  said  College  may  need  their  present 
help  and  counsel,  —  It  is  therefore  ordered,  that  the  greater  number 
of  said  magistrates  and  elders,  which  shall  be  present,  with  the 
President,  shall  have  the  power  of  the  whole.  Provided,  that  if  any 
constitution,  order,  or  orders,  by  them  made,  shall  be  found  hurtful 
to  the  said  College,  or  the  members  thereof,  or  to  the  weal-public, 
then,  upon  appeal  of  the  party  or  parties  grieved,  unto  the  company 
of  Overseers,  first  mentioned,  they  shall  repeal  the  said  order,  or 
orders,  if  they  shall  see  cause,  at  their  next  meeting,  or  stand  ac- 
countable thereof  to  the  next  General  Court." . 


establish  all  such  orders,  statutes,  and  constitutions,  as  they  shall  see  necessary 
for  the  instituting,  guiding,  and  furthering  of  the  said  College,  and  the  sev- 
eral members  thereof,  from  time  to  time,  in  piety,  morality,  and  learning ; 
as  also  that  they  shall  have  full  power  to  dispose,  order,  and  manage,  to  the 
use  and  behoof  of  the  said  College  and  members  thereof,  all  gifts,  legacies, 
bequeathalls,  revenues,  lands,  and  donations,  as  either  have  been,  are,  or 
shall  be,  conferred,  bestowed,  or  any  ways  shall  fall  to  the  said  College. 

"  And  whereas  it  may  come  to  pass,  that  many  of  the  said  magistrates 
and  elders  may  be  absent,  or  otherwise  employed  in  weighty  affairs,  when 
the  said  College  needs  their  present  help,  counsel,  and  authority;  —  Therefore 
it  is  ordered,  that  the  greater  number  of  the  said  magistrates,  elders,  and 
President,  shall  have  the  power  of  the  whole.  Provided  also,  that  if  any 
constitution,  order,  or  orders,  shall  be  made,  that  is  found  hurtful  to  the  said 
College,  or  the  members  thereof,  or  to  the  weal-public,  that  then,  upon  the 
appeal  of  the  party  or  parties  aggrieved  to  the  said  Overseers,  they  shall 
repeal  the  said  order,  or  orders,  at  their  next  meeting,  or  stand  accountable 
thereof  to  the  next  General  Court." 


[[p. 589]]

APPEXDIX, 

THE  CHARTER  OF  THE   PRESIDENT  AND  FELLOWS  OF  HAR-    No.LXVlll. 
VARD    COLLEGE,  UNDER   THE    SEAL   OF  THE   COLONY    OF    " 
MASSACHUSETTS  BAY,  AND  BEARING  DATE,  MAY  30™,  A.  D. 
1650." 

"  Whereas,  through  the  good  hand  of  God,  many  well-devoted  The  char- 
persons  have  been,  and  daily  are,  moved,  and  stirred  up,  to  give  and     i  650. 
bestow,  sundry  gifts,  legacies,  lands,  and  revenues,  for  the  advance- 
ment of  all  good  literature,  arts,  and  sciences,  in  Harvard  College, 
in  Cambridge  in  the  County  of  Middlesex,  and  to  the  maintenance 
of  the  President  and  Fellows,  and  for  all  accommodations  of  build- 
ings, and  all  other  necessary  provisions,  that  may  conduce  to  the 
education  of  the  English   and  Indian   youth   of  this   country,   in 
knowledge  and  godliness. 

"  It  is  therefore  ordered  and  enacted  by  this  Court,  and  the  au- 
thority thereof,  that  for  the  furthering  of  so  good  a  work,  and  for 
the  purposes  aforesaid;  from  henceforth  that  the  said  College,  in 
Cambridge  in  Middlesex,  in  New  England,  shall  be  a  Corporation, 
consisting  of  seven  persons,  to  wit,  a  President,  five  Fellows,  and  a 
Treasurer  or  Bursar ;  and  that  Henry  Dunster  shall  be  the  first 
President ;  Samuel  Mather,  Samuel  Danforth,  Masters  of  Art, 
Jonathan  Mitchell,  Comfort  Starr,  and  Samuel  Eaton,  Bachelors 
of  Art,  shall  be  the  five  Fellows;  and  Thomas  Danforth  to  be 
present  Treasurer,  all  of  them  being  inhabitants  in  the  Bay,  and 
shall  be  the  first  seven  persons  of  which  the  said  Corporation  shall 
consist ;  and  that  the  said  seven  persons,  or  the  greater  number 
of  them,  procuring  the  presence  of  the  Overseers  of  the  College, 
and  by  their  counsel  and  consent,  shall  have  power,  and  are  hereby 
authorized,  at  any  time,  or  times,  to  elect  a  new  President,  Fellows, 
or  Treasurer,  so  oft,  and  from  time  to  time,  as  any  of  the  said 
persons  shall  die,  or  be  removed ;  which  said  President  and  Fel- 
lows, for  the  time  being,  shall  for  ever  hereafter,  in  name  and 
fact,  be  one  body  politic  and  corporate  in  law,  to  all  intents  and 
purposes ;  and  shall  have  perpetual  succession  ;  and  shall  be  called 
by  the  name  of  President  and  Fellows  of  Harvard  College,  and 


*  This  charter  is  thus  introduced  on  the  Records  of  the  General  Court, 
Vol.  IV.  p.  10.  "  At  a  General  Court  of  elections,  held  at  Boston,  22d  May, 
1650.  In  answer  to  the  petition  of  Henry  Dunster,  President  of  Harvard 

College, and  to  his  desires  for  a  Corporation,  the  Court  doth  grant 

his  request  in  these  terms.     Whereas,"  &c. 


[[p. 590]]

APPENDIX,  shall,  from  time  to  time,  be  eligible  as  aforesaid,  and  by  that  name 

No.LXVUL    ..,.».  u    11          j 

.   they,  and  their  successors,  shall  and  may  purchase  and  acquire  to 

The  char-  themselves,  or  take  and  receive  upon  free  gift  and  donation,  any 
1650.  lands,  tenements,  or  hereditaments,  within  this  jurisdiction  of  the 
Massachusetts,  not  exceeding  five  hundred  pounds  per  annum,  and 
any  goods  and  sums  of  money  whatsoever,  to  the  use  and  behoof 
of  the  said  President,  Fellows,  and  scholars  of  the  said  College ; 
and  also  may  sue  and  plead,  or  be  sued  and  impleaded  by  the  name 
aforesaid,  in  all  Courts  and  places  of  judicature,  within  the  juris- 
diction aforesaid. 

"  And  that  the  said  President,  with  any  three  of  the  Fellows, 
shall  have  power,  and  are  hereby  authorized,  when  they  shall  think 
fit,  to  make  and  appoint  a  common  seal  for  the  use  of  the  said  Cor- 
poration. And  the  President  and  Fellows,  or  major  part  of  them, 
from  time  to  time,  may  meet  and  choose  such  officers  and  servants 
for  the  College,  and  make  such  allowance  to  them,  and  them  also 
to  remove,  and  after  death,  or  removal,  to  choose  such  others,  and 
to  make,  from  time  to  time,  such  orders  and  by-laws,  for  the  better 
ordering,  and  carrying  on  the  work  of  the  College,  as  they  shall 
think  fit;  provided,  the  said  orders  be  allowed  by  the  Overseers. 
And  also,  that  the  President  and  Fellows,  or  major  part  of  them 
with  the  Treasurer,  shall  have  power  to  make  conclusive  bargains 
for  lands  and  tenements,  to  be  purchased  by  the  said  Corporation, 
for  valuable  consideration. 

"  And  for  the  better  ordering  of  the  government  of  the  said 
College  and  Corporation,  Be  it  enacted  by  the  authority  aforesaid, 
that  the  President,  and  three  more  of  the  Fellows,  shall  and  may, 
from  time  to  time,  upon  due  warning  or  notice  given  by  the  Presi- 
dent to  the  rest,  hold  a  meeting,  for  the  debating  and  concluding 
of  affairs  concerning  the  profits  and  revenues  of  any  lands,  and 
disposing  of  their  goods  (provided  that  all  the  said  disposings  be 
according  to  the  will  of  the  donors)  ;  and  for  direction  in  all  emer- 
gent occasions ;  execution  of  all  orders  and  by-laws ;  and  for  the 
procuring  of  a  general  meeting  of  all  the  Overseers  and  Society,  in 
great  and  difficult  cases ;  and  in  case  of  non-agreement ;  in  all 
which  cases  aforesaid,  the  conclusion  shall  be  made  by  the  major 
part,  the  said  President  having  a  casting  voice,  the  Overseers 
consenting  thereunto ;  and  that  all  the  aforesaid  transactions  shall 
tend  to  and  for  the  use  and  behoof  of  the  President,  Fellows, 
scholars,  and  officers  of  the  said  College,  and  for  all  accommoda- 
tions of  buildings,  books,  and  all  other  necessary  provisions  and 


[[p. 591]]

furnitures,  as  may  be  for  the  advancement  and  education  of  youth,  APPENDIX, 
in  all  manner  of  good  literature,  arts,  and  sciences.     And  further,  y°-LXV1"- 
be  it  ordered  by  this  Court,  and  the  authority  thereof,  that  all  the   The  char- 
lands,  tenements,  and  hereditaments,  houses,  or  revenues,  within  this      1650. 
jurisdiction,  to  the  aforesaid  President  or  College  appertaining,  not 
exceeding  the  value  of  five  hundred  pounds  per  annum,  shall,  from 
henceforth,  be  freed  from  all  civil  impositions,  taxes,  and  rates ;  all 
goods  to  the  said  Corporation,  or  to  any  scholars  thereof  appertain- 
ing, shall  be  exempted  from  all  manner  of  toll,  customs,  and  excise 
whatsoever.     And  that  the  said  President,  Fellows,  and  scholars, 
together  with  the  servants,  and  other  necessary  officers  to  the  said 
President,  or  College  appertaining,  not  exceeding  ten,  viz.  three  to 
the   President,    and  seven  to  the  College   belonging,  shall  be  ex- 
empted from  all  personal  civil  offices,  military  exercises,  or  services, 
watchings,  and  ward  ings;  and  such  of  their  estates,  not  exceeding 
one  hundred  pounds  a  man,  shall  be  free  from  all  country  taxes  or 
rates  whatsoever,  and  no  other. 

"  In  witness  whereof,  the  Court  hath  caused  the  seal  of  the  colony 
to  be  hereunto  affixed.  Dated  the  one  and  thirtieth  day  of  the 
third  month,  called  May,  anno  1650. 


L.S.I 


THOMAS    DUDLEY,    Governor." 


[A  copy  of  the  original,  engrossed  on  parchment,  under  the  sig- 
nature of  Governor  Dudley,  with  the  colony  seal  appendant,  is  in 
the  custody  of  the  President  and  Fellows  of  Harvard  College.] 


