DOCUMENT_ID: nef1643
TITLE (as printed): New Englands First Fruits: in respect, first of the conversion of some, conviction of divers, preparation of sundry of the Indians. 2. Of the progresse of learning, in the colledge at Cambridge in Massachusets Bay [excerpt: Part 2, "In respect of the Colledge, and the proceedings of Learning therein," including "Rules, and Precepts that are observed in the Colledge" and "The times and order of their Studies"]
DATE: 1643 (London)
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://archive.org/details/puritans00mill_0 (djvu OCR of: Perry Miller and Thomas H. Johnson, eds., The Puritans: A Sourcebook of Their Writings [New York: American Book Co., 1938; this scan an early reprinting], pp. 700-704). The editors state this text "is from a copy of the 1643 edition in the New York Public Library, pp. 12-16," collated against Samuel E. Morison's "accurate line-for-line and word-for-word transcription" of the tract in The Founding of Harvard College (1935), Appendix D.
EDITION: Miller & Johnson, The Puritans (1938), pp. 700-704, itself reprinting the 1643 London pamphlet New Englands First Fruits.
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (Internet Archive OCR of the printed anthology page images; not corrected). A separate, independently OCR'd scan of an actual 1643 copy of the pamphlet (archive.org identifier newenglandsfirst00unse) was also fetched (see raw/ and text/nef1643-orig-scan.txt) and its wording checked against this transcription at multiple points (e.g. both read "dreading to leave an illiterate Miniftery"/"illiterate Ministery" at the same place); that scan's OCR error rate was too high for reliable quotation (see sources.csv), so this cleaner anthology transcription is used for all quote records from the "Rules and Precepts" and curriculum schedule.
TOTAL PAGES: 5 (pp. 700-704 of the anthology; original pamphlet pp. 12-16)
WORD COUNT: approx. 1750 (this excerpt)


[[p. 700]] (running head marker from source line 7; editorial note by Miller & Johnson begins mid-page 699, continues onto 700 below)

thought that the provincial college should serve only the church by 
training men for the ministry; and the letter of Leonard Hoar to his 
freshman nephew (see p. 708), written six years later, is warrant enough 
that a study of the cultural past alone was not thought to advance 


[[p. 700]]


learning—that a study of the sciences must be cultivated. When at 
the end of the century President Mather addressed the undergraduates, 
urging them to search for truth even though the way led through new 
and disturbing fields of thought (see p. 721), he was enunciating the 
central theme of Puritan scholarship. Such statements justify the con- 
clusion that in matters of education the Puritans were leaders not 
reactionaries, as resolute as they were sincere. 


NEW ENGLANDS FIRST FRUITS 


[No other colonizers in the English-speaking world have provided 
for higher education so soon upon their arrival as those in Massachusetts 
Bay. In October, 1636, the General Court voted £400 “towards a 
schoale or colledge,’’ and by 1642 the first class of nine members was 
graduated from Harvard College. In the following year a twenty-six- 
page tract was published in London: New Englands First Fruits. It 
pictured attractively the natural resources, the benefits of climate, the 
opportunities for converting the heathen, and it made a special point 
of describing the thriving young college. The promoters of New Eng- 
land took this way to ask for money, and at the same time spread 
propaganda abroad to counter that which was “‘selling’’? the West 
Indies. 

The material for the part “In respect of the Colledge, and the pro- 
ceedings of Learning therein”’ was very likely supplied by Henry Dunster 
(1609-1659), the young minister who, emigrating in 1640, served the 
college as President for fourteen years. Its list of rules by which the 
students lived and its outline of curriculum furnishes important data 
about the Puritan educational ideal. 

See Worthington C. Ford, ‘“The Authorship of ‘New Englands First 
Fruits,’’’ Publications of the Massachusetts Historical Society, XLII (1909), 
259-266. The tract has twice been reprinted in full: Sabin Reprints, 
Quarto series, No. vii (New York, 1865); Samuel E. Morison, The 
Founding of Harvard College (Cambridge, 1935), Appendix D (where it is 
given an accurate line-for-line and word-for-word transcription). See 
further, ibid., pp. 304, 305. The best brief summary of ““The Beginnings 
of Higher Education” in America is in Samuel E. Morison, The Puritan 
Pronaos (New York, 1936), chapter II. 

The text which follows is from a copy of the 1643 edition in the 
New York Public Library, pp. 12—16.] 


[[pp. 701-704]] (single combined marker for the primary 1643 text that follows; see TRANSCRIPTION METHOD note above -- individual per-page markers within this short excerpt were consolidated to keep the primary text as one contiguous transcription for verbatim-quotation purposes)


NEW ENGLANDS FIRST FRUITS: 


2. IN RESPECT OF THE COLLEDGE, AND THE PROCEEDINGS 
OF LEARNING THEREIN. 


1. After God had carried us safe to New-England, and wee had 
builded our houses, provided necessaries for our liveli-hood, rear’d 
convenient places for Gods worship, and setled the Civill Government: 
One of the next things we longed for, and looked after was to advance 
Learning and perpetuate it to Posterity; dreading to leave an illiterate 
Ministery to the Churches, when our present Ministers shall lie in the 
Dust. And as wee were thinking and consulting how to effect this great 
Work; it pleased God to stir up the heart of one Mr. Harvard (a godly 
Gentleman, and a lover of Learning, there living amongst us) to give 
the one halfe of his Estate (it being in all about 1700. 1.) towards the 
erecting of a Colledge, and all his Library: after him another gave 
300. |. others after them cast in more, and the publique hand of the 
State added the rest: the Colledge was, by common consent, appointed 
to be at Cambridge, (a place very pleasant and accommodate) and is 
called (according to the name of the first founder) Harvard Colledge. 

The Edifice is very faire and comely within and without, having in 
it a spacious Hall; (where they daily meet at Common Lectures) 
Exercises, and a large Library with some Bookes to it, the gifts of 
diverse of our friends, their Chambers and studies also fitted for, and 
possessed by the Students, and all other roomes of Office necessary 
and convenient, with all needfull Offices thereto belonging: And by 
the side of the Colledge a faire Grammar Schoole, for the training up 
of young Schollars, and fitting of them for Academicall Learning, that 
still as they are judged ripe, they may be received into the Colledge 
of this Schoole: Master Corlet is the Mr., who hath very well approved 
himselfe for his abilities, dexterity and painfulnesse, in teaching and 
education of the youth under him.! 

Over the Colledge is master Dunster placed, as President, a learned 
conscionable and industrious man, who hath so trained up, his Pupills 
in the tongues and Arts,'and so seasoned them with the principles of 
Divinity and Christianity, that we have to our great comfort, (and in 
truth) beyond our hopes, beheld their progresse in Learning and god- 
linesse also; the former of these hath appeared in their publique 
declamations in Latine and Greeke, and Disputations Logicall and Philo- 
sophicall, which they have beene wonted (besides their ordinary Exer- 
cises in the Colledge-Hall) in the audience of the Magistrates, Ministers, 
and other Schollars, for the probation of their growth in Learning, 


upon set dayes, constantly once every moneth to make and uphold: 
The latter hath been manifested in sundry of them by the savoury 
breathings of their Spirits in their godly conversation. Insomuch that 
we are confident, if these early blossomes may be cherished and 
warmed with the influence of the friends of Learning and lovers of this 
pious worke, they will by the help of God,.come to happy maturity 
in a short time. 

Over the Colledge are twelve Overseers chosen by the generall 
Court, six of them are of the Magistrates, the other six of the Ministers, 
who are to promote the best good of it, and (having a power of influence 
into all persons in it) are to see that every one be diligent and proficient 
in his proper place. 


2. Rules, and Precepts that are observed in the Colledge. 


1. When any Schollar is able to understand Tully,? or such like 
classical Latine Author extempore, and make and speake true Latine 
in Verse and Prose, suo ut aiunt Marte; 3 And decline perfectly the Para- 
digm’s of Nounes and Verbes in the Greek tongue: Let him then and 
not before be capable of admission into the Colledge. 

2. Let every Student be plainly instructed, and earnestly pressed 
to consider well, the maine end of his life and studies is, to know God 
and Iesus Christ which is eternall life, Joh. 17. 3. and therefore to lay 
Christ in the bottome, as the only foundation of all sound knowledge 
and Learning. | 

And seeing the Lord only giveth wisedome, Let every one seriously 
set himselfe by prayer in secret to seeke it of him Prov 2, 3. 

3. Every one shall so exercise himselfe in reading the Scriptures 
twice a day, that he shall be ready to give such an account of his pro- 
ficiency therein, both in Theoretticall observations of the Language, and 
Logick, and in Practicall and spirituall truths, as his Tutor shall require, 
according to his ability; seeing the entrance of the word giveth light, it 
giveth understanding to the simple, Psalm. 119. 130. 

4. That they eshewing all profanation of Gods Name, Attributes, 
Word, Ordinances and times of Worship, doe studie with good con- 
science, carefully to retaine God, and the love of his truth in their 
mindes, else let them know, that (notwithstanding their Learning) 
God may give them up ?o strong delusions, and in the end to a reprobate 
minde, 2 Thes. 2. 11, 12. Rom. 1. 28. 

5. That they studiously redeeme the time; observe the generall 
houres appointed for all the Students, and the speciall houres for their 
owne Classes: and then diligently attend the Lectures, without any 


disturbance by word or gesture. And if in anything they doubt, they 
shall enquire, as of their fellowes, so, (in case of Non satisfaction) mod- 
estly of their Tutors. 

6. None shall under any pretence whatsoever, frequent the company 
and society of such men as lead an unfit, and dissolute life. 

Nor shall any without his Tutors leave, or (in his absence) the call 
of Parents or Guardians, goe abroad to other Townes. 

7. Every Schollar shall be present in his Tutors chamber at the 
7th. houre in the morning, immediately after the sound of the Bell, 
at his opening the Scripture and prayer, so also at the 5th. houre at 
night, and then give account of his owne private reading, as aforesaid 
in Particular the third, and constantly attend Lectures in the Hall at 
the houres appointed? But if any (without necessary impediment) shall 
absent himself from prayer or Lectures, he shall bee lyable to Admoni- 
tion, if he offend above once a weeke. 

8. If any Schollar shall be found to transgresse any of the Lawes 
of God, or the Schoole, after twice Admonition, he shall be lyable, 
if not adultus, to correction, if adultus, his name shall be given up to 
the Overseers of the Colledge, that he may bee admonished at the 
publick monethly Act. 


3. The times and order of their Studies, unlesse experience shall 
shew cause to alter. 
The second and third day of the weeke, read Lectures, as followeth. 
To the first yeare at 8th. of the clock in the morning Logick, the 
first three quarters, Physicks the last quarter. 
To the second yeare, at the gth. houre, Ethicks and Politicks, at con- 
venient distances of time. 
To the third yeare at the roth. Arithmetick and Geometry, the three 
first quarters, Astronomy the last. 
Afternoone. 
The first yeare disputes at the second houre. 
The 2d. yeare at the 3d. houre. 
The 3d. yeare at the 4th. every one in his Art. 
The 4th. day reads Greeke. 
To the first yeare the Etymologie and Syntax at the eighth houre. 
To the ead. at the gth. houre, Prosodia and Dialects. 
Afternoone. 
The first yeare at 2d. houre practice the precepts of Grammar in 
such Authors as have variety of words. 


The 2d. yeare at 3d. houre practice in Poésy, [with] Nonnus, Duport,* 
or the like. 

The gd. yeare perfect their Theory before noone, and exercise Style, 
Composition, Imitation, Epitome, both in Prose and Verse, afternoone. 


The fift{h| day reads Hebrew, and the Easterne Tongues. 
Grammar to the first yeare houre the 8th. 
To the 2d. Chaldee [1.e. Aramaic] at the gth. houre. 
To the 3d. Syriack at the roth. houre. 


Afternoone. | 
The first yeare practice in the Bible at the ad. houre. 
The ad. in Ezra and Dan[i]el at the 3d. houre. 
The 3d. at the 4th. houre in Trostius > New Testament. 


The 6th. day reads Rhetorick to all at the 8th houre. 
Declamations at the gth. So ordered that every Scholler may de- 
claime once a moneth. The rest of the day vacat Rhetoricis studiis.© The 
7th. day reads Divinity Catecheticall at the 8th. houre, Common places at the 


gth. houre. 
Afternoone. 


The first houre reads history in the Winter, 

The nature of plants in the Summer 

The summe of every Lecture shall be examined, before the new 
Lecture be read. 

Every Schollar, that on proofe is found able to read the Originalls 
of the Old and New Testament into the Latine tongue, and to resolve 
them Logically; withall being of godly life and conversation; And at 
any publick Act hath the Approbation of the Overseers and Master 
~ of the Colledge, is fit to be dignified with his first Degree. 

Every Schollar that giveth up in writing a System, or Synopsis, or 
summe of Logick, Naturall and Morall Phylosophy, Arithmetick, Geometry 
and Astronomy: and is ready to defend his Theses or positions: withall 
skilled in the Originalls as abovesaid: and of godly life & conversa- 
tion: and so approved by the Overseers and Master of the Colledge, 
at any publique Act, is fit to be dignified with his 2d. Degree. 


