DOCUMENT_ID: pbi-first-things-first-1947
TITLE (as printed): First Things First: Beginnings back of "Hope for Nothing"
DATE: 1947 (Internet Archive catalogs the item's date as 1947-01-01; internal text gives 1946-47 enrollment figures)
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://archive.org/details/P004753 (Internet Archive identifier P004753)
EDITION: Prairie Press pamphlet, Three Hills, Alberta; text by Hector Kirk of the Sudan Interior Mission, introduced by L. E. Maxwell
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (Internet Archive OCR, engine/lang not stated by IA); page-number lines in the original OCR converted to [[p. N]] markers by the Fetcher, no other change
TOTAL PAGES: 23 numbered pages (plus unnumbered front/back matter)
WORD COUNT: (see quotes.jsonl for excerpted passages; full pamphlet not independently word-counted this session)

FIRST THINGS FIRST 


(The following account—simple, touching, 
and “homey’—is by Hector Kirk of the 
Sudan Interior Mission. The lives of his 
parents, known to us as “Grandma and 
Grandpa” Kirk, are a challenge to every 
Christian.—L. E. M.) 


In the little prairie town of Three Hills, 
Alberta, stands a monument to God’s wisdom 
and power. In this day when human power 
and intellect are well-nigh worshipped, God 
still chooses to use the things weak and 
foolish, base and despised, yea, the things 
which are naught to bring to naught the 
things that are. In His use of the weak and 
unreckoned, God rebukes cold, calculating 
unbelief and “gives the lie’ to lukewarm 
Christianity. 


The Prairie Bible Institute, interdenom- 
inational, is now one of the largest Bible 
Schools in America. The enrolment for 
1946-47 is as follows: 700 in the Bible 
School, 340 in the High School, and 90 in 
the Grade School. ‘ 


Staff members now number 85, all of whom 
work voluntarily without salary. There is 
a gospel broadcast from the school each 


[[p. 1]]


Sunday morning. Many thousands of copies 
of the school paper, The Prairie Overcomer, 
are sent out each month without specific 
charge. During the summer scores of grad- 
uates and undergraduates go forth to labour 
under their various auspices, especially 
under the Canadian Sunday Schoo! Mission. 
They carry the Word of God far and wide 
into needy districts of Canada and the 
United States. Since its beginning in 1922 
over 275 young people have gone from the 
Prairie Bible Institute to foreign mission 
fields. And the present indications are that 
this Institute may experience still further 
phenomenal growth in the near future. 


It is not our purpose to go more into 
detail about this work, but rather to give 
an insight into the story behind the begin- 
ning of the work and to tell something of 
the humble instruments God used to lay 
foundations and establish principles which 
have become basic in this work. 


Away back in 1878, in eastern Ontario, my 
father and mother, Mr. and Mrs. Andrew 
Kirk, determined at the time of their mar- 
riage to put God first in their lives. They 
had little of this world’s goods, and as chil- 
dren to the number of ten were born to them, 
there was a constant struggle on their farm 
for the bare necessities of life, especially 
during their first twenty years together. 


[[p. 2]]


Before her marriage our mother had 
suffered much on account of her health, but 
through suffering and disappointment she 
had gone very deep with God in consecra- 
tion and faith. A book which came into her 
hand at that time, and which greatly influ- 
enced her life, was “The Christian’s Secret 
of a Happy Life,” by Hannah Whithall 
Smith. Its development of the truth that 
all things, including the wrongs and mean- 
nesses of fellow Christians, or even our own 
mistakes, God works together for our good, 
gripped Mother and gave her the Christian’s 
heritage indeed—a happy life under any 
circumstances. 


Another thing which Mother claimed from 
God was that, as she put it: “I will rear no 
children for the devil.” She claimed Acts 
16:31: “Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, 
and thou shalt be saved, and thy house.” 


Before her marriage, Mother had volun- 
teered for the mission field. She entered 
school to train for this service, but on ac- 
count of poor health could not go abroad. 
Nevertheless, she kept her missionary viston 
bright to the end of her life. 


Although we worked hard on a dairy farm, 
with its long hours, spiritual things were al- 
ways put first. There was unhurried family 
worship twice a day, usually with comments 
on the reading, followed by an unhurried 


[[p. 3]]


prayer. The evening prayers were held 
immediately after the evening meal so as 
to be sure as possible that no one was 
absent. Incidentally, many a neighbour or 
helper on the farm had prayers with us. 
We heard no fairy tales at home, but Bible 
stories and missionary experiences were as 
familiar to us as “Jack and the Beanstalk” 
is to most children. 


Church and Sunday School were as much a 
part of our lives as our regular meals and, 
I think, as much enjoyed. I am always 
amazed at people who excuse themselves and 
their children from attending church by say- 
ing, “I was forced to go as a child.” 


We not only attended the Sunday School 
of the local Presbyterian Church and the 
church service which immediately followed, 
but also attended a Sunday School in a 
needy district three miles from home, of 
which Father was founder and superintend- 
ent. All this, together with chores night 
and morning, made a very busy Sunday, but 
these spiritual activities were considered 
just as important as the size of the milk 
cheque or the getting in of the harvest-- 
and what a rich harvest it yielded! 


I can still hear our neighbours saying, “I 
can’t see how Andrew Kirk can find time to 
attend a church convention for three days 
during the summer time. I can’t find it.” 


[[p. 4]]


Whenever I think of my parents’ lives and 
their dominating motives I am reminded of 
a phrase from an old hymn: “Ever live with 
eternity’s values in view.” One of Mother's 
favorite sayings was: “We find time for the 
things we value most.” 


As I visit our old community from time 
to time, I am often reminded of those dear 
neighbours, most of them Christians, who 
could not find time for these extra things 
for God Some of them made a little more 
money, but, as often as not, put it into a 
bag with holes, or left 1t to worldly children 
to quarrel over. . 


My parents received a wonderful spiritual 
uplift through revival meetings held in our 
Presbyterian Church by Rev. Andrew Russell 
with his cousin, Walter Russell. My father 
said that the Holy Spirit came upon him at 
that time im such a way that his Bible be- 
came his meat day and night. Even material 
things looked different. The sky seemed 
brighter blue, the grass a fairer green, and 
a great joy filled his heart. 

Since writing the above, an elder sister 
had told me of an incident in our parents’ 
life—a very real fact in connection with 
the blessing they received at this time. As 
Father was seeking earnestly for the filling 
of the Holy Spirit, he was reminded by God 
of an unfulfilled obligation in connection 
with his father’s will. This was not actual- 


5 LIBRARY 
URIVERSITY OF ALBERTA 


ty a legal liability, amd he had persuaded 
himself that it was not even a moral ob- 
ligation, but the Holy Spirit brought home 
to him forcefully that this was a debt to 
be paid. Mother agreed with him that this 
issue be met, though, with interest and 
compound interest over the intervening 
years, it amounted to $500. The money was 
borrowed from a relative, and paid over. 
Only then did the longed for spiritual bless- 
ing fall. 


It was interesting to me to hear Mother 
tell later on how she, too, sought this special 
emotional blessing, and would have made any 
_ sacrifice to obtain it, but that she had re- 
ceived nothing in the least ecstatic. To 
her was granted only a quiet deepening of 
her spiritual life. Nevertheless, in all the 
years that followed, Mother went on with 
God as fully, or even more so, than did 
Father. 

This rhinister also led my parents into 
the life of sacrificial giving for foreign 
missions. He taught this by example as 
well as by precept. From a salary of $750, 
he himself gave $100 to foreign missions. 

My father pledged $100 a year, which 
meant a great deal to him in the poverty of 
those early days. To make up our pledge 
we went without butter for at least two 
years, and used feed flour for baking. All 
we ever had for breakfast was well-cooked 


oatmeal porridge and milk. Father was led 
to take the insurance off his buildings, and 
not to insure his life as he had planned to do. 
He definitely took the Lord as Protector and 
Caretaker for the family. God met him in 
all these issues. All the time he lived on 
the farm with his large family there never 
was need to call a doctor. The buildings 
were never burned. Mother lived to be 
eighty-four, and Father to the age of eighty- 
seven. As a family we never lacked. 

At that time it did require faith to give 
away year by year about all that could be 
made on the farm. To many it seemed 
foolish and even wrong. 


But perhaps the hardest thing they had 
to bear at this time was the critical, un- 
comprehending attitude of neighbours, and 
particularly of relatives. Because things 
about our home were not as comfortable and 
prosperous looking as others, it was often 
said, “They don’t care much about the re- 
finements of life. They are the uncultured 
type.” My grandmother—a prominent Chris- 
tian worker, & good soul and very kind to 
us—used te say of my mother (when things 
got into a muddle because Father was away 
in God’s work and there was very little 
money, and Mother refused to scold or com- 
plain), “Oh, Maria doesn’t care!” 


From such passages as I Cor. 4:8-13 it is 
evident that there are two distinct types of 


[[p. 7]]


believers often living side by side and both 
saved—but how different! Some believers 
live like kings, as though the Cross has 
already given place to the Kingdom. But 
others in apostolic succession seem “ap- 
pointed unto death.” Like Paul they are 
made a spectacle unto the world, and to 
angels, and to men. They are “fools for 
Christ’s sake...are weak...are despised .. 
are made as the filth of the world, and are 
the offscouring of all things.” My parents 
were indeed “speckled birds” in the midst 
of the neighbours. 

I well remember my uncle, himself a good 
Christian and an elder of the church, coming 
to Father to try to get him to be “sensible” 
in these things. He pointed out the danger 
of fanaticism, quoting Ecc. 7:16: “Be not 
righteous overmuch.” He directed Father's 
attention to the fact that his children would 
need all he could give them for education, 
etc. When Father would not agree to stop 
giving at that rate, he quoted I Tim. 5:8: 
“If any provide not for his own, and spe- 
cially for those of his own house, he hath de- 
nied the faith and is worse than an infidel.” 
Father, knowing that God was leading him, 
only laughed at this, and Unele left 
him, saying, “I’ll give you five years to get 
away from this foolishness.” But Father 
never did get over giving. He continued 
laying up treasure in Heaven as ardently and 


[[p. 8]]


as carefully as any financier invests in 
government bonds. 

He and Mother used to say, “Be as careful 
in investing your Lord’s money as you are 
in investing money in worldly business.” 
They prayerfully sought guidance in these 
matters, and when they found evidence that 
any work they were supporting was no 
longer profitable in spiritual returns, they 
sought to give where they could be sure of 
eternal reward. What a joy they had in 
giving! And their prayers and _ interests 
naturally became world-wide. They loved to 
save to give as so many save to hoard. 

Although my father had little academic 
education, he knew his Bible as few men 
know it. He had large portions committed 
to memory, and I have heard very few men 
lead a Bible class as well as he. Many were 
saved in his little Sunday School and went 
tnto full-time service for God. 

I can recall, as a child, sometimes accom- 
panying Father on errands of mercy, for 
which he took time from a_ busy life. 
Often he would slip some money into a needy 
hand as he said good-bye. 

For years Father conducted cottage prayer 
meetings in our own and neighbouring 
homes. And he was always at the fore to 
help in special meetings of any denomination 
in the district. He was superintendent of 
the Methodist Sunday School for some years. 


[[p. 9]]


He began also to be in demand as a local 
preacher, filling pulpits for various ministers 
in the vicinity. 


The absence of worry or anxiety in my 
mother’s life and her quiet contentment were 
a source of wonder to all who knew her. 
This was not the result of a naturally easy- 
going temperament, nor of a trouble-free 
life, but of a wonderful faith and trust in 
God’s love and power. Father’s absence 
from the farm in Christian work often 
meant greatly increased responsibility and 
work for Mother in the home and on the 
farm, yet she always encouraged him to 
engage in such work. 


Beginning about 1895, and for several 
years thereafter, Father spent his winters 
out in Manitoba preaching the gospel. He 
was promised $350 per week by the Home 
Mission Board. Then came a period when 
he was not needed. 


Meanwhile the Lord had done what Father 
always claimed He does for those who give 
to Him. God had given him back far more 
than he had given. We experienced a real 
degree of prosperity. But at such a time 
of testing many Christians are sidetracked. 
Their very God-given prosperity, given to 
those who sacrifice for Him, becomes a 
snare. We must keep re-investing our bonds 
in the Bank of Heaven. 


[[p. 10]]


I have no doubt that my father became at 
that time unduly taken up with making 
money. Hes til continued to give liberally 
(though not in proportion to his earlier 
giving), and also kept up his Christian work. 
But it was evident to some of us that his 
heart and mind were becoming absorbed in 
the farm. We had bought more land, had 
doubled the size of our farm, and were rent- 
ing a neighbouring farm. But God is faith- 
ful and wondrously kind, and He dropped a 
reminder into the midst of this absorption 
in worldly things. 


In 1907, when I was eighteen and the only 
boy left on the farm with Father, we were 
in the midst of getting off a large harvest 
when a letter arrived from the Presbyterian 
Board asking my father to go to the west 
that fall and continue his home mission 
work. Father immediately replied, saying 
that he could not get away. But God dealt 
with him. I am sure, too, that Mother said 
something. How often a wife turns the bal- 
ance either way at such a crucial moment, 
and with what far-reaching results. Had 
Mother not helped Father to make this de- 
cision or, on the other hand, had she con- 
sidered her own well-deserved comfort, or 
had she shrunk back from the responsibility 
and burden of caring for the home and fam- 
ily, the balance doubtless would have turned 
the other way. As it was, a few days later 


[[p. 11]]


Father said to me, “Hector, I feel I have not 
done right. If that call should ever come 
again, I would have to go. But it is not 
likely it will come, since I have told the 
Board that I am so involved here that I 
cannot go.” 


But how good God is! The following 
autumn we had just as great a harvest to 
gather—added to which the weather was 
wet, making it more difficult—when the same 
appeal came from the Church In less than 
a week Father was on his way west. This 
was a turning point of tremendous impor- 
tance to us all. I verily believe that, had 
this decision not been made then, we would 
have become just another respectable fam- 
ily! Fathef never came back to the farm. 
The Church ordained him and asked him to 
continue in full-time work in the west. 

Then, a few years later Mother’s struggle 
came, She had remained to care for the 
family at home. After a time Father found 
his health would not stand the work out 
west without a home, and it meant either he 
must give up the work, or Mother would 
have to go to be with him. 

But there were three young girls at home 
needing a mother’s care, the youngest only 
twelve. It was a real problem and only God 
could solve it. There were a few months 
in which to decide, and how well I recall 
a part of Mother’s prayer at family worship 


[[p. 12]]


twice a day for guidance that “there might 
be no mistake and no uncertainty.” When 
the time came, there was quiet assurance 
that she should go. 

I can remember her reply to her many 
well-meaning Christian friends who opposed 
the idea. Many even said it was wrong. 
She would show from the Scriptures that we 
are exhorted to put nothing, not even our 
dearest loved ones, before the Lord's work. 
(Luke 14:25-35; 18:28-30). Then she would’ 
point out how many young girls were left 
motherless by death and yet came through 
all right, and that even in the west she 
would be where she could help and advise by 
letter at any time. But I know how much 
it cost Mother to go. 

Thus my parents left the prospect of a 
prosperous life and a comfortable old age 
to serve God and take the gospel to settlers 
in the west—first in Manitoba, then in 
Saskatchewan, and later in Alberta, as the 
tide of settlers moved west. I visited them 
in 1910, 1915, and in 1918, and found them 
living in small] shacks, but very happy in the 
service of Christ. 

They had given up their home and family 
for God's service, but in the course of 
fifteen years the family was almost entirely 
gathered together again at Three Hills, 
Alberta. For several years Father was sta- 
tioned near that town. When my parents 


[[p. 13]]


finally retired from active service, they were 
given a life lease of a little farm right among 
their loved ones. Had they remained in the 
east, it-would have been to live out their lives 
with their family far away It pays to fol- 
low God. 


Their willingness to obey God regardless 
of the cost made a deep impression upon me 
and upon others of the family in the matter 
of giving to God’s work and going into God’s 
service. Outstanding among our early rec- 
ollections is that of the saving of money in 
our home to make up our missionary pledge. 


An incident which occurred about the time 
I visited my parents in 1910 indicates how 
fully God had freed my father from the 
desire for worldly possessions. They were 
then located in Saskatchewan, near the 
Alberta border, working largely among 
ranchers. But settlers were coming in fast. 
They were living in a small settlement on 
the main lhne of the C P. R. The land 
nearby had all been homesteaded recently. 
But one quarter section—160 acres—was to 
be thrown open again because the home- 
steader had to leave before securing his 
title. Since the place was well located near 
the railway station, some of the home- 
steaders advised my father of the opportu- 
nity. They said, “Take it, or some stranger 
will get it. You will be stationed here for 
three years anyway, and you may as well 


[[p. 14]]


move your shack to this farm and live there, 
as to live where you are, thus fulfilling the 
duties of a homesteader for the necessary 
three years’ residence. Then if you do not 
want to farm it, when you have your title, 
we will buy it from you.” 


Father went to inspect it. But while 
he walked over it, God forcefully brought to 
his mind II Timothy 2:4: “No man that 
warreth entangleth himself with the af- 
fairs of this life, that he may please him 
who hath chosen him to be a soldier.” He 
stopped short, went back to his friends and 
told them that he was not taking the home- 
stead, and why. 

After they retired from active home-mis- 
sionary work and were living on the farm 
near Three Hills, they continued to give. 
During one year, after they were seventy 
years of age, they spent on themselves only 
$80.00 while giving away $1,000.00 to mis- 
sions. They used to tell us they were leaving 
no money for us—to which all of us children 
heartily agreed. God gave Father and 
Mother the joy of giving, right up to the 
end of their lives, and they both expressed 
the wish that there be no money spent on 
their funeral. In homemade coffins their 
bodies await the resurrection of the just, 
and even that extra bit of money was saved 
for God's work and invested in saving souls. 
Their material possessions when they died, 


if put up at auction, would not have brought 
$25 00. 


My brother Fergus, who is now President 
of the Prairie Bible Institute, had gone to 
the west as a homesteader at the age of 
eighteen. He had endured privation and 
worked hard till he became a_ successful 
farmer with many acres of good land and a 
complete tractor equipment, etc. He did 
not mind my going to Africa in 1918, but 
his own feeling was: “That may be all right 
for Hector, but not for me.’ He was a 
Christian, but he loved his possessions. 

Shortly after that, God began to deal with 
him in a special way, and He did it by means 
of a man (Mr. Hamilton by name) who had 
been saved in Father's little Sunday School 
and led to give his life for missionary ser- 
vice in India. 

During his furlough this missionary visited 
my brother’s home at Three Hills while do- 
ing deputation work in the vicinity. My 
brother often drove him to his appointments 
in his car, and became greatly impressed by 
Mr. Hamilton’s walk with God and his 
prayer life. 

One evening Mr. Hamilton took for his 
text II Sam. 24:24: “Neither will I offer 
burnt offerings unto the Lord my God of 
that which doth cost me nothing.” The 
text was borne home by the Spirit to my 
brother so strongly that he was all broken 


[[p. 16]]


up with weeping. Fearing that others would 
see him in tears, he slipped out and sat in 
his car. But even there he continued to 
weep. It was a visitation from God. There 
sprang up forthwith a great hunger for 
God’s Word. He came to see that, although 
he had given hundreds of dollars at a time 
to God’s work, he had never given anything 
that really cost. 


With the approval of his godly wife he 
began to sell his land, quarter section after 
quarter section, just when nearly everyone 
was holding on to all the land he had, or 
was buying more. 

As he sold his land, he gave the money 
away to the causes he knew were really 
doing God's work. His tractor and machin- 
ery went the same way, until he had only one 
quarter section and a few horses—enough to 
make a bare living. He told me later that 
he dared not make it known too openly what 
he was doing with his money, lest people 
think his mind was affected. What a re- 
flection upon modern Christianity! Mother 
wrote me at that time concerning this: 
“Fergus is not drunk with wine, but 1s filled 
with the Spirit.” 

He gave himself to prayer and the study 
of the Word. He lived in his Bible. But 
his hardest test was yet ahead, for God said, 
“I want you to preach.” That nearly finished 
him He said, “Lord, I'll give my last cent 


[[p. 17]]


and do any kind of work for you, but preach 
I can’t.”. And anyone who knew him as I 
did Knew how humanly impossible it was 
for him to speak in public. I can honestly 
say I never knew a more sensitive, retiring 
dispostition. To mention his name at meal- 
time when he was a lad would cause him to 
slip down and hide beneath the table. But 
God quietly insisted. There was nothing to 
do but preach or disobey, and already he 
had found under severe test the joy of 
obedience. 


He lived a few miles out of Three Hillis. 
Nine miles beyond was a schoolhouse. This 
seemed a good place to begin in a quiet way. 
After getting permission to use the school- 
house, he went about and told the neighbours 
that he would conduct Sunday School there. 
The following Sunday quite a number came 
together. He said that service was the 
worst thing he had ever gone through, and 
he was sure no one would return the follow- 
ing Sunday. But they did return, and ere 
long it became easier, and even interesting, 
and then delightful to open the Word to 
interested classes. 


Soon he was in demand as a local preacher. 
He has since taught in the Bible Institute. 
He now has a regular church service under 
the Presbyterian Church in the country. 
Upon him, particularly, was laid the burden 
of a few Bible Classes among the teen-age 


[[p. 18]]


children—grandchildren of Grandma and 
Grandpa. For, by this time a married sister 
and her husband, fearing to subject their 
large family to the temptations of the city, 
also moved to Thrée Hills to farm. They 
deliberately forsook financial gain for the 
spiritual good of their young ones. But 
how many parents follow the trail of Lot 
and “pitch their tent toward Sodom,” re- 
gardless of the influence Sodom may have on 
their precious children! So few put God 
first in these matters. (These parents have 
already seen their reward, for of their fam- 
ily of nine all but one are in God’s service, 
most of them foreign missionaries. And 
the ninth is in training). 


By gathering together a few families who 
put Him first, God was preparing for the 
“School of the Prophets,” which a little later 
He brought into being. Upon them came the 
common concern and burden for the young 
people of their families—the need of defi- 
nite Bible teaching, together with the oppor- 
tunity afforded by the long winter months 
when there is so little to do on the average 
prairie farm. 


In a fair-sized empty house on my brother- 
in-law’s farm, Bible-teaching classes were 
held during the winter of 1921-22, A real 
interest was awakened and the need of a 
qualified teacher was realized. Several of 
our family had studied at the Missionary 


[[p. 19]]


Training Institute, Nyack, N. Y., and a letter 
of appeal was sent to Dr. W. C. Stevens of 
the (then) Midland School of Kansas City, 
asking him if he could send a teacher. Dr. 
Stevens was deeply interested and put the 
need before a young graduate of his school. 
Rev. L. E. Maxwell responded and came to 
Three Hills in the fall of 1922. 


From the human viewpoint there seemed 
little prospect of a Bible School developing 
at the village of Three Hills. In fact, a 
Bible School was not the ambition of these 
few folks. Their goal was God’s will for 
their local young people. And nothing could 
so promote God’s will as the study of God’s 
Word. So, without money or special ability, 
without church or denomination to back the 
enterprise—yea, without the demand of a 
host of Christians for such a work, but with 
the one thing essential—this group of humble 
Christians became burdened with the need, 
and were willing to obey God at any 
sacrifice. Mr. Maxwell, too, had learned the 
secret of obedience. He rejoiced in the 
spiritual atmosphere he found at Three Hills 
and entered into the spirit of self-sacrifice. 
God was leading Mr. Maxwell and dealing 
with him—preparing a chosen vessel for His 
service. But that is a story by itself—as is 
the story of each one whom God has called 
through the years to serve at the Prairie 
Bible Institute. 


[[p. 20]]


Mr. Maxwell took his small salary for only 
two or three months, then said, “I have seen 
what you people are putting into God’s work, 
and at what sacrifice. God’s Word to me is 
‘Hoping for Nothing.’ If you board me, I 
will trust the Lord for my other needs.” 
Thus he set a precedent which continues in 
operation until today at the Prairie Bible 
Institute. No one serving in any capacity 
receives any salary—only board and room 
and medical attention. Special gifts ear- 
marked for the Staff provide clothing, travel, 
and incidentals, etc. Would anyone have 
the secret of mighty constraining love for 
Christ? Here is the answer: First, by 
sacrifice; second, by sacrifice; third, by 
sacrifice. 


While home on furlough during the winter 
of 1923-24 we attended many of the classes 
in that old farm house where about forty 
students of all ages were gathered each day 
for Bible study. Most of these came from 
the Three Hills district, but already there 
were a number from distant places. Then 
it was decided to build in the village. 


By the utmost sacrifice of time and money 
the school has grown year by year, even 
during the years of the depression. It cost 
these supporters much. They have become 
“the poor of this world, rich in faith.” Many 
of them put into the Bible Institute, and 
into their foreign missionary pledges, the 


[[p. 21]]


price of their cars while they walked to 
town or used horse and buggy. 

Many from far and near have contributed 
in money, provisions, and labour, during the 
years Practically all the work on the build- 
ings has been done voluntarily. No debt is 
incurred. The Lord has gathered about the 
school a great and growing band of men and 
women of like mind, as workers, teachers, 
specialists, and Board members, all of whom 
give their utmost without salary. A spirit 
of joyful service and sacrifice pervades the 
place. 


From the first the missionary cause was 
foremost and the giving each year was in 
the thousands. In the course of the years 
over $300,000 has gone through the school 
treasury to interdenominational faith mis- 
sions. 

The lasting impression made upon one who 
knows the background and history of the 
Prairie Bible Institute is the marvel of what 
God can do even in this day of spiritual 
declension with the humblest persons who 
are unreservedly yielded to Him. Why is 
there not more of this sort of thing today? 
My brother Fergus said to me once in this 
connection, “Many earnest Christians go a 
long way with the Lord, but few go all the 
way.” 

While on the earth our Lord told His 
disciples that anything given for His sake 


[[p. 22]]


and the gospel’s would be rewarded a hun- 
dredfold in this life, besides His gift of 
eternal life to all who believed on Him. 
He gave my parents the fullest kind of 
Christian life through their many years. He 
gave them many souls. How happy they 
were! Not only were all their children 
saved, but all are active in Christian work. 
And they lived to see about a score of their 
children and grandchildren in missionary 
service. So much received for so little! 
Yet some think that God is a hard master. 

And with the example of such parents, 
how easy it was for their children to recog- 
nize and respond to God’s demands upon 
them. I know the reaction upon my own 
hfe, and it was much the same with the 
others. For example, as a lad of fifteen I 
had, by dint of much hard work, earned 
enough money to buy a bicycle—the desire 
of my heart—and was just about to order it, 
when I felt that the Lord was asking me to 
give the money to foreign missions. It was 
a struggle, but it was only in line with what 
I had seen in our home, and so, although it 
was perhaps the equivalent of giving up a 
car to God today, I sent the money to Mr. 
Hamilton of India who was later used of 
God to touch my brother in the little school- 
house. 

It was comparatively easy, I say, to fol- 
low our pafents in the matter of yielding to 
God’s service. 


[[p. 23]]


These memories and incidents are re- 
corded only to show how through the years 
these souls consistently put God first. He 
not only used them to bring blessing to 
many, but prepared them for ever greater 
things. And how richly He rewarded them 
even in this life! May others be encouraged 
to obey God implicitly and explicitly, and 
press on for the highest. 


My parents illustrate -no case of marked 
ability, or even of special opportunity. 
What Christians could not have done what 
they did? God is no respecter of persons. 
He is longing to honour and use those who 
are willing to pay the price—for it does cost. 
But it pays! 


“God has the best things for the few 
Who dare to stand the test.” 


terested nan Prussia ay 


: PRASRIZ PRESS, THREE MILLS, ALBERTA 


a _—s« PBI. FROM THE AIR—1946 


‘ ar 


Gx ipais 
UNINEASTTATIS 
RUAEDSE 


ksq «62525273 
G47 

