CHRISTIAN DEVOTEDNESS,
or
The Consideration of Our Saviour's Precept,
"Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth".

By Anthony Norris Groves (1795--1853).

Second Edition,

London, James Nisbet,
Berners Street,
MDCCCXXIX.

[...]

In sending a second impression of the following little work into the
world after a lapse of four years from the publication of the former
edition, it may be right to state, that my views on the subject of
it, have undergone no change in the way of relinquishment; but on the
contrary the experience of every day in my own history,--every
observation I have been able to make on the history of those with
whom I have come into the closest contact, and who have either
received or rejected the view, and in whatever degree, has tended
exceedingly to strengthen the conviction on my mind, of the
infinitely deep knowledge of the human heart, and springs of human
actions which these injunctions of our Blessed Lord manifest: and
that he means simply what he says in "Lay not up for yourselves
treasures upon earth," etc. There is an eye-salve in this doctrine,
when received by faith, that wonderfully clears the field of our
spiritual perceptions; therefore, he that can receive it, let him
receive it. Many more, certainly, have been influenced by it, and
some to a much greater extent than I had expected; and the clusters
that have adorned their branches seem to be of the true Eschol
grapes

[...]

The principal objections urged, seem to arrange themselves under
three heads:--The influence of which this principle would rob the
Church;--the children it would leave without a provision;--and that
it would require those having estates to sell them, and would not be
satisfied with the dedication of the interest or profits arising out
of such property. My business, however, is not with the consequences
of the precept, but with the precept itself. Yet still I would say,
there is in this reasoning as deistical a disregard of the Lord's
especial government of his Church and people, as could be expected
from an infidel.

[...]

With regard to the other two points, I feel they may be disposed of
under one general argument, which is this: That the principle of
God's government is paternal; and therefore its primary object is the
development in us of the character of dear children, the essential
feature of which is unlimited dependence. But, of course, this
relation implies its co-relative, the Fatherly character of God; and
the least entrenchment upon daily dependence for daily provision,
either for temporal or spiritual supplies, affects God's honour in
this character.

[...]

The writer of the following pages has been deeply affected, by the
consideration of the strange and melancholy fact--that Christianity
has made little or no progress for fifteen successive centuries: and
having, as he trusts, perceived, in an attentive perusal of the
Gospel History,[1] that primitive Christianity owed much of its
irresistible energy to the open and public manifestation by the early
disciples, of their love to their Redeemer and King, and to one
another, by the evidence which they gave of it in their conduct, and
being moreover convinced that the exhibition of this love tends
directly and most powerfully to augment the prosperity of the Church
of Christ within its own bosom, and to extend its influence
throughout the world in all ages; he ventures to lay the result of
his reflections open to the candid consideration of the sincere
disciples of that Saviour

[...]

This manifestation of love he believes to have been made by the
entire and real (not figurations) devotion of themselves, their
property, time and talents to Christ, their Lord and King.

[...]

When the young man came to enquire what good thing he could do to
inherit eternal life, after having mentioned several duties, our Lord
says,--"Yet lackest thou one thing: sell all that thou hast, and
distribute to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and
come, follow me. And when he heard this, he was very sorrowful, for
he was very rich. And when Jesus saw that he was very sorrowful, he
said,--'How hardly shall they, that have riches, enter into the
Kingdom of God! For it is easier for a camel to go through a needle's
eye, than for a rich man to enter into the Kingdom of God!'

[...]

The conduct of them and their
adherents is thus recorded by St. Luke (Acts 2.44, etc., and 4.32, 34
and 35.) "All that believed were together and had all things common:
and sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all men, as
every man had need. And they, continuing daily with one accord in the
temple, and breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat
with gladness and singleness of heart. The multitude of them that
believed were of one heart and of one soul: neither said any of them
that ought of the things that he possessed was his own; but they had
all things common. Neither was there any among them that lacked: for
as many as were possessors of lands, or houses, sold them, and
brought the prices of the things that were sold, and laid them down
at the Apostles' feet: and distribution was made unto every man
according as he had need.

[...]

"Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature"
(Mark 16. 15),--was the parting command of our Blessed Saviour; and
it was on the literal reception of this command that the momentous
alternative hung of our knowledge, or ignorance of the only Name
under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved; for "how
shall they hear without a preacher, and how shall they preach except
they be sent?", still is the order of God's government.

[...]

It is not meant
absolutely to say that every man should become a Missionary, in the
proper sense of the term. "There are diversities of gifts, but the
same Spirit; and there are differences of administrations, but the
same Lord" (1 Cor. 12. 4). While one has that ministration of the
Spirit which leads him to go and preach the gospel in person, another
shows that he is guided by the same Spirit in carefully supplying the
wants of him who thus goes "taking nothing of the Heathen" (3 John
7), from the abundance yielded by devoted diligence in his honest
vocation, and by rigid habits of self-denial.

[...]

Let us therefore "endure hardness, as good soldiers of Jesus
Christ", knowing that "no man that warreth entangleth himself with
the affairs of this life; that he may please him who hath chosen him
to be a soldier" (2 Tim. 2. 3).

[...]

Should I be asked, what I understand by giving up all for Christ, my
reply would be that I believe this surrender to be made, when any
individual, following whatever lawful vocation he may, labours and
contrives therein, with all the assiduity and indefatigable diligence
of which he is capable, to accomplish the known--the recorded will of
his Lord and Saviour. If that will requires that he should labour for
the souls, as well as the bodies of men; that he should strive to
make his fellows happy in time, and in eternity; that he should
impart to them the knowledge of Him who is "the way, the truth, and
the life"; he will labour with time, talents, means, and prayers, for
the attainment of these ends, as diligently as others labour from
motives of simple covetousness, or with a view of making provision
against future contingencies for themselves or for their families. If
any object to selling "houses or lands" it remains for themselves to
distinguish[18] between the motives, which induce them to retain
their property, and those which induced the "young man" to retain
his. If they retain it from any private affection unsupported by the
word of truth, and if it is not their own full conviction--that, in
so doing, they are pursuing the path most directly tending to fulfil
the mind of Christ; neither the myriads of those who embrace their
views and follow their plans, nor the learning and authority by which
they are supported, will prove them to be wise, or true, or eligible,
in that day when the judgment shall be set, and the books shall be
opened. The principle I have here endeavoured to establish from the
sacred volume, demands of no man the relinquishment of a present
sphere of usefulness, till he is himself conscientiously convinced
that he is called to another, where he may accomplish more for the
great cause for which he lives--the exaltation of Jesus, and the
gathering his sheep.

[...]

Thus I leave the question to those who love the Lord Jesus Christ in
sincerity; who desire that his name may be a praise in the earth; and
who, seeing that the harvest is truly plenteous, but the labourers
few, are constant in prayer to the Lord of the Harvest that he would
send forth more labourers into it and that he would more abundantly
pour out his Holy Spirit upon his Church, that it may more fervently
desire, and more assiduously labour for, the coming of that day, when
the Lord shall come to be glorified in his saints, and to be admired
in all them that believe. And may the Lord direct all our hearts into
the love of God, and patient waiting for Christ, that if we should be
alive and remain at his coming, we may be caught up to join the
saints who are to come with their Lord in the clouds; and so be ever
with the Lord; or if we go before, may we come with Him in the day of
His glory. Amen.