DOCUMENT_ID: moon-1971-caleb-evans
TITLE (as printed): Caleb Evans, Founder of the Bristol Education Society
DATE: October 1971
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://biblicalstudies.org.uk/pdf/bq/24-4_175.pdf
EDITION: Norman S. Moon, Baptist Quarterly 24.4 (October 1971): 175-190; PDF supplied by Theology on the Web (biblicalstudies.org.uk)
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (pdftotext -layout extraction from the supplied PDF); NOT re-OCR'd or corrected by this session
TOTAL PAGES: pp. 175-190 as printed (running heads in the text)
WORD COUNT: approx. 6,800 words
OCR QUALITY NOTE: This PDF is a scanned/OCR'd reproduction; scattered character errors are present (e.g. "tlien" for "then", "sovreign" for "sovereign" may be original spelling not OCR error). This session did not re-OCR the source.
CLASSIFICATION: Secondary (1971 scholarly article), used for background and cross-checking; quotes primary documents (Terrill's deed, Society rules, Evans family letters and sermons) with citations to church minute books and manuscripts this session did not independently access; those quoted-within passages are cited here as [SECONDARY: moon-1971-caleb-evans, page] rather than treated as independently verified primary text. Not used for the abridged charter.

This document was supplied for free educational purposes.
Unless it is in the public domain, it may not be sold for profit
or hosted on a webserver without the permission of the
copyright holder.

If you find it of help to you and would like to support the
ministry of Theology on the Web, please consider using the
links below:



                             https://www.buymeacoffee.com/theology




                             https://patreon.com/theologyontheweb



 PayPal                      https://paypal.me/robbradshaw


A table of contents for The Baptist Quarterly can be found here:

      htps://biblicalstudies.org.uk/ar�cles_bq_01.php
Norman S. Moon, "Caleb Evans, Founder of the Bristol Education Society," Baptist Quarterly 24.4 (October 1971): 175-190.




                                                                                                                              Caleb Evans, Founder of The
                                                                                                                                Bristol Education Society
                                                                                                                           O     NE date in Church History which every Bristol student
                                                                                                                                 knows is 1679, the date of Eward Terrill's will which made
                                                                                                                            possible the foundation of Bristol Baptist College. Actually the
                                                                                                                            effective work of this Academy began in 1720 when Bernard
                                                                                                                            Foskett became minister of Broadmead Baptist Church and Presi-
                                                                                                                            dent of the College. He was assisted by, and tlien· suceeded by
                                                                                                                            Hugh Evans, who in turn, was assisted by and then suceeded by
                                                                                                                            his own son, Caleb. To Hugh and Caleb, and more particularly to
                                                                                                                            Caleb, we owe the development of the work, under the auspices
                                                                                                                            of the Bristol Education Society founded in 1770. Their aim was
                                                                                                                            to prepare able and evangelical ministers, and this was possible
                                                                                                                            because they were both able and evangelical.
                                                                                                                               Hugh Evans was a Welshman. His grandfather was a Brecon-
                                                                                                                            shire farmer who, in Oliver Cromwell's time, passed his exam-
                                                                                                                            ination by the Triers and was recommended for the ministry
                                                                                                                            in the National Church and awarded a stipend of £30 per annum.
                                                                                                                            He was appointed to a living at Maesmynys, where he continued
                                                                                                                            until 1660. His conscieilce would not permit him to comply with
                                                                                                                           the terms of the Act of Uniformity, and he became a Dissenter,
                                                                                                                            joining the church at Dolau and Pentre, where he became min-
                                                                                                                           ister. He was succeeded in 1688 by his son Caleb (senior) who
                                                                                                                           died in 1739. Hugh Evans was his youngest son. His mother
                                                                                                                           came from a Herefordshire family distinguished in the Principal-
                                                                                                                           ity for sheltering Baptists in times of persecution. Hugh was
                                                                                                                           converted as a schoolboy in Breconshire. He came to Bristol to
                                                                                                                           visit a relative, and to obtain advice for a complaint in his foot.
                                                                                                                           While he was here, presumably on an extended visit, he contin-
                                                                                                                           ued his studies under Bernard Foskett, who baptised him at
                                                                                                                           Broadmead in 1730 when he was 18 years old. When he returned
                                                                                                                           to Wales, Foskett wrote to his father advising the church to try
                                                                                                                           the young man's gifts for the ministry, "for while he was at
                                                                                                                           Bristol we could not prevail on him to exercise his gifts, such
                                                                                                                           was his extreme modesty" .1 Three years later ( 1733 ) three
                                                                                                                           different churches called Hugh Evans to their ministry; he be-
                                                                                                                           came assistant minister at Broadmead. In 1739 he became a
                                                                                                                           teaching elder, and at Foskett's death in 1758 he became College
                                                                                                                           Principal. Dr. John Rippon, who was a student, wrote of Hugh:
                                                                                                                           "His gift in prayer was uncom~on - his students thought it
                                                                                                                           unequalled . . . nor did any preacher know better what it was
                                                                                                                           to reign over his audience, enlightening their understanding,
                                                                                                                           convincing their judgment, and then kindling all their passions
                                                                                                                                                          175
176                  THE BAPTIST QUARTERLY


 in °a blaze of devotion".2
     Amongst his admirers was Caleb, his son: "When I was only
 a youth I beheld with admiration my father in the pulpit, and
 was delighted with the heavenly sounds which flowed from his
 lips; Hearing the awful terrors of the law and the astonishing
 grace of the Gospel, I was brought into the very dust before the
 throne of a holy God, and enabled to magnify the riches of free
 grace". Here is Calvinist theology, gripping the soul of man.
    Hugh had married the daughter of a Broadmead deacon, Sarah
 Brown, but of a large family only Caleb and two of his sisters
 survived their father. Their mother is described as a woman of
 uncommon excellencies. She died when Caleb was 14, and his
 father remarried the following year another lady from Broad-
 mead. Of his step-mother, Ann, Caleb said: "She was a most
 faithful' and affectionate wife, a kind and tender mother, not
 only to her own children, but likewise to those of us she gener-
 ously took charge of in our early years". 3
    Hugh Evans hoped his son might serve God in the Gospel,
 and he sought to provide him with a liberal education, sending
 him to Mile End Academy in London. He was baptised during
 his student days by Dr. Samuel Stennett in Little Wild Street.
 For two years he served as assistant to two or three London
Baptist ministers.
    Bernard Foskett died in 1758, after 38 years' service to Broad-
mead Church and the College. Broadmead invited Hugh Evans
to become pastor and college president, and his son, Caleb, now
 aged 21, to be assistant. Quickly the church responded to the
team ministry. The congregation, already large and reputable,
felt the impact. Dr. Rippon says: "The influence of the father
was apostolic; the popularity of the son was proverbial".4
    In accordance with Baptist procedure, Caleb Evans was not
ordained until his ministry had been put to the test - and this
test lasted eight years! Hugh Evans presided, speaking of the
glory of the Church, and the divine care in raising up from age
to age able ministers of the New Testament to go in and out
before his people and to break the bread of life. "And to have
a son capable and willing to serve in the same important work
fills me with unutterable pleasure. Greater joy I cannot have". 5
   Caleb's confession of faith is very significant. First he affirms
the right of private judgment in matters of religion as the un-
doubted and inalienable privilege of every rational, intelligent
creature. "I am accountable only to God". But while the congre-
gation has no right to impose a credal test, it is appropriate
that they should be satisfied they have invited a minister who
is °genuine in faith and morals. Once this has taken place, the
minister has the right to expect support, and the freedom of
Christ to exercise his ministry. The statement which follows is
                          CALEB EVANS                         177

 unmistakably Calvinist, yet not narrowly so. "I believe God
 made man in the formation and structure of whose body and
 in the faculties of whose soul He gave striking specimens of His
 exquisite skill and wisdom". (lIere we may detect one who is
aware of scientific developments.) His adherence to the Biblical
doctrine of election is carefully worded: "I find it impossible to
 deny universal depravity, unless I could suppose poisonous
 streams flow from a pure fountain. . . . God graciously chose
to display the riches of His sovreign grace and mercy, foresee-
 ing the fall of man. He determined to rescue a certain number
 from the apostate race. He could have chosen all, but that He
 has not done so is indisputable. But we are not to understand
the sovreign will of God as a capricious and wanton display
 of power.... I ~annot deny the doctrine of election, notwith-
standing all the dreadful representations some men have pre-
 sumed to give it . . . and this is the important lesson I learn
from it . . . with the deepest humility every believer ought to
say, 'by the grace of God I am what I am'."                     .
   Coming to the "grand doctrine of the Atonement and Media-
tion of Christ", he declared "Here I see sin punished, and all
the perfections of the Deity exalted, and the chief of sinners
saved. Here I see mercy and truth, righteousness and truth. Here
I see the Great Immanuel, Deity and Humanity reunited, and
an effective way opened for a happy union between God and
every believing soul. I receive therefore this glorious heart-
cheering doctrine as wen worthy of an acceptatiJon."6 This
phrase was the keynote of Andrew Fuller's book, written in
1781, and published in 1785. Both men may have derived
the phrase from 2 Timothy, though Evans does not cite it as
a quotation. But may we not see the possible link between
Bristol and the breaking with hyper-Calvinism, which led to the
evangelical Calvinism that inspired William Carey and the Bap-
tist Missionary Society? In a paper read to the Baptist Historical
Society in June 1968, Dr. Geoffrey Nuttall surveyed the way in
which 18th Century Calvinism tended to anti-nomianism, "based
on undue attention to logic". This Dr. Nuttall attributes in part
to the influence of unordained and theologically untrained men,
because they lacked a University education. "It would be worth
while to enquire to what extent the Bristol Academy and Edu-
cation Society fostered the movement towards Fullerism". 7
   The churches of the Western Association were never as rigid
in their Calvinism as Particular Baptists were in areas where
they were confronted with General Baptists. There were very
few General Baptist churches in the West, and some of these
lapsed into Unitarianism. The Somerset Confession of 1656,
while clearly Calvinistic, includes as Article 34 what Lumpkin
describes as one of the clearest statements on the missionary
178                .   THE BAPTIST QUARTERLY


 obligation of the Church to be heard before the time of William
 Carey. "That as it is an ordinance of Christ, so it is the duty of
 his church to send forth such men as are fitly gifted and quali-
 fied through the Spirit of Christ to preach the Gospel to the
 world".8 (Acts 13, 1-3, etc.) Article 25 stresses "the duty of
 believing Gentiles to have compassion on the Jews, because
 their conversion will be to us life from the dead". 9 It is suggested
 that this emphasis may have come out of the debate between
 the Quakers and Thomas Collier, for the Quakers in Bristol at
 one period in the 17th century drew off a number of Broadmead
 members.
    Broadmead Church always had an open attitude. It was never
 exclusively Baptist, and was parallel to the Bedfordshire churches
 of the Bunyan tradition, where Baptists and Congregationalists
 did not separate on the issue of water baptism. But Pithay also,
though always a "closed membership", reflected in the person
 of Andrew Gifford Senior and his successors what Dr. Champion
describes in Farthing Rushlight as "evangelical Calvinism."10
For example, Andrew Gifford would, at the close of his sermon,
offer Christ to sinners. His grandson, Dr. Andrew Gifford, was
 a friend and admirer of George Whitfield. This evangelical
Calvinism, as we have seen, is clear in the Caleb Evans' "Con-
fession of Faith".
    Benjamin Francis characterised Caleb Evans' faith in an elegy
composed at his death, in which he caid:
      "Celestial truth shone through his inmost soul,
      Illumined, controlled, revived and warm'd the which
     He felt the doctrine of th~ Cross, and found
      Life, peace and joy through all hi!! powers abound".n
And Dr. Samuel Stennett said of Caleb: "He was no bigot, for
he· understood the rights of private judgment, and was sensible
of the weakness of the human intellect, and felt the difficulties
of truly upright minds on points where they could not agree.
And so far from being ashamed of the Cross of Christ, he
gloried in it, for it had been the power of God to his salvation
and to the increasing joy of his heart. 12
   John Thomas describes him as a man of real candour, who
upheld the rights of private judgment, but who, once he had
investigated for himself, would hold to his opinions and preach-
though still remaining open to conviction: 18
The founding of the Bristol Education Society.
   A whole group of ministers and laymen was responsible for
the founding of the Bristol Education Society in June 1770, in-
cluding the ministers of both the Bristol churches, Pithay and
Broadmead. Undoubtedly, Hugh Evans, as Principal, was behind
the venture. His sermon to the Society in 1773 clearly affirms
his belief in an educated and converted ministry. "The able
                           CALEB EVANS                          179

 minister needs to possess a tolerable share of natural endow-
  ments ... and he needs the improvements of human learning;
 No profession needs this more than the ministry - when such
 learning is sanctified and humbly devoted to the service of God:
 But such a ministry depends on God, whose calling should be
 confirmed by a man's home church, and the minister must be
 evangelical, one who is led into the true spirit of the Gospel;
 who preaches Christ and Him crucified".14
    But it was Caleb who, as the younger man, was more active
 in rousing support for the venture which his father and he so
 clearly visualised - a College, well supported, and intellectually
 abreast of the times. Caleb toured the churches, arousing Bap-
 tists to the vision, as the Annual Reports of the 1770's clearly
 reveal.                                                           .
    Why was the founding of the Bristol Education Society con-
 sidered necessary? There had been a concern for the education.
 of Baptist ministers ever since the Clarendon Code had excluded
 Dissenters from the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge. The
 dissenting academies provided for a general education, broader
 in its basis than the classical curricula of the Universities, .al-
 though there was mistaken suspicion in some quarters that
 education was being regarded as a substitute for the Holy Spirit
 rather than as an ally.16
    At the time of the imposition of the Clarendon Code there
 were between 40 and 50 Particular Baptist ministers who had
 previously received a University education. What of the future
 now the Universities were closed to them? A few Baptists sought
 higher education in Scotland or Holland. What opportunities
could the rest expect? Here was a matter of deep concern.
    Amongst these Baptists who had a concern was Andrew Gifford
 (Senior) minister of Pithay Church, Bristol, from 1661-1721;
whom Ivimey describes as "the Apostle of the West, as he was
the founder of most churches in Somersetshire and Gloucester-
shire" Y During a lull in the persecution at the time of the
Declaration of Indulgence, on the 2nd October, 1675, leading
London ministers sent a letter to Bristol and to other parts of
England and Wales suggesting "a meeting the following May
in the metropolis with a view to form a plan for the orderly
standing ministry of the Church who might give themselves to
reading and study and so become able ministers of the New
Testament".18 Apparently there were hyper-Calvinists who even
claimed that "none could pray acceptably without the influence
of the Holy Spirit, and, since unconverted men were destitute
of those influences,' that it was not. their duty to pray, nor the
duty of ministers to exhort them to seek for spiritual bless·
ings".19 Andrew Gffford was certainly not one who shared thjs
restricted outlook, and agreed with the London ministers. who
180                 THE BAPTIST QUARTERLY


 wrote "Christianity improves and rectifies, but it does not
 abolish our service to God, but it doth not in any wise make
 void that which was a duty before".2o ... When the particular
 Baptists assembled in London in 1677 no. decision appears to
 have been made about the educating of ministers. The meeting
 is chiefly significant for the Confession of Faith in which the
brief section on the ministry makes no mention of the subject.
 Religious persecution was to continue for eleven more years.
    These were the circumstances which led Edward Terrill to
write his Will (dated 3rd June, 1679). Terrill was a ruling elder
 at Broadmead. The local context is significant. Thomas Hard-
 castle, Broadmead's minister, had died the previous year after
 a long imprisonment, and Broadmead had just called George
Fownes of London as his successor. Terrill was wealthy. He was
led to think of his stewardship by the generosity of two Broad-
mead members who had previously bequeathed from humble
resources £5 each to their church. One was Margery Simmonds,
a maid; the other Edward Terrill's own mother. Edward Terrill
himself became possessed of considerable wealth by his mar-
riage in 1668 to Mrs. Dorothy Heath. But with a wider vision,
Edward Terrill provided not only for the poor of his church,
and for its future ministry, but also for training future ministers
- to quote: "for the Glory of God and the propagation of the
Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, and for the true love and
affection he hath and beareth unto the congregation of which
he is a member. Mr. Terrill empowered his trustees to devote
the proceeds of his estates to the maintenance of a holy, learned
man, well skilled in the tongues (Greek and Hebrew), and doth
own and practice the truth of believers' baptism as a pastor or
teacher of the congregation". 21 Three half days in the week
is the tutor to employ in the instruction of some young men,
not exceeding twelve, members of any baptised congregation
in or about Bristol for two years at the most.
   Edward Terrill was sensitive about the reproaches brought
against Baptists by Presbyterians that their ministers were not
brought up in the University. Commenting on Thomas Ewins,
Broadmead's first minister, whom he valued highly, he slips in
the qualification. "though he had not the original tongues".21 In
persuading Thomas Hardcastle to come to Broadmead in 1671,
he 'argued that he would be "more use in Bristol where there
were so few learned men of our persuasion by contrast to
London".21
   Immediately after the passing of the Act of Toleration in 1689
representatives of 100 Particular Baptist Churches assembled
in London. Meeting after the long period of persecution, it is
significant that the Assembly expressed concern that many
churches were neglecting to maintain their ministers, so that
                          CALEB EVANS                          181

they were "incumbered with worldly cares, and that churches
were not giving adequate encouragement for the raising up of
 an able and honorable ministry for time to come".22 The Assem-
bly resolved to raise a fund through the free will gifts of the
 churches, collected weekly and remitted quarterly. The three-,
fold purpose of the fund was (1) to relieve ministers of the
necessity for following a secular calling, (2) to sponsor ministers
for pioneer ministries where the Gospel has not yet been
preached, (3) to assist those members that shall be found in
any of the churches that are disposed for study, have an inviting
gift and are sound in fundamentals in obtaining to the know-
ledge of Latin, Greek and Hebrew.
   Ministers were to be -allowed "a comfortable maintenance
according to their ability". Also we note: "It is a shame for men
to wear long hair or long periwigs, and especially ministers (1
Cor. 11,14) or strange apparel (Zeph. 1,8).23 The question was
asked "Would it be advantageous for our brethren now in the
ministry to attain to a competent knowledge of Greek, Latin
and Hebrew tongues, that they may be the better capable of
defending the truth against oppressors?". Answer: resolved in
the affirmative. 24
   The 1691 Assembly reported that several pious and hopeful
young men had been assisted in their acquirement of learning,
and some had been sent forth to visit the churches. In the next
year the appeal was made to the churches to "look among your·
selves for some godly men inclined to the ministry". The 1693
Assembly, held in Bristol, did, however, find it necessary to
correct any misapprehensions that "the design was to promote
human learning or acquire parts above or make them equal with
the gifts of the Spirit". 25
   In the West country support for the National Fund was immed-
iate, e.g., the Pith ay Church in Bristol sent £30 by the hands of
Andrew Gifford; Plymouth collected £27, and promised £9 per
annum, to be entirely disposed of in the education of young
ministers. They nominated Richard Sampson, one of their mem-
bers, and he was maintained at Bristol under the tutorship of
an Oxford man, Mr. Thomas, who had been ejected from
Cromwell's State Church. Sampson, who went on to exercise a
great ministry at Exeter, is listed as the first student of Bristol
College, though he was not apparently maintained by Terrill's
fund. After the death of Mr. Thomas in 1693 students appear
to have been sent to academies in London, Taunton and Tewkes-
bury.
   After some years of searching, Broadmead appointed Caleb
Jope to undertake the training of ministers. He was paid, from
the Terrill bequest from 1714-9, but the venture was unsuccess-
ful for some unknown reason (possibly Jope's personality).
182                  THE BAPTIST QUARTERLY


Broadmead was glad to find a successor in Bernard Foskett, who
came from Henley-in-Arden in 1720. The National Fund of the
early 1690's does not appear to have been sustained, but a revi-
val of concern was manifest in 1717, when the Particular Baptist
Fund and the Bristol Baptist Fund were both established. But
even so only a few men, less than a dozen, were being educated
in Bristol. Students were leaving before they had completed
their courses because money had run out. Yet there was a short-
age of Baptist ministers.
   How adequate was the qual~ty of education given at Bristol
in the mid-18th century? Hugh Evans is naturally loyal to his
Principal, and was warm in his praise. Dr. Rippon, who studied
at Bristol just before 1770, said "If it be conceded that Foskett's
method of education was limited rather than liberal, severe
rather than enchanting, employing the memory more than the
genious, the reason more than the softer powers of the mind ...
in a word, if it is granted that Mr. Foskett is not the first of
tutors ... it is a debt of honour to acknowledge that some good
scholars and several of our greatest ministers were educated
by him".26
  The aims Of the Bristol Education Society.27
   The aims of the founders of the Bristol Education Society in
1770 were two-fold to put the work on a sound financial footing,
and to make possible a more liberal type of education. For Hugh
and Caleb Evans there was no dichotomy between the devotional
and the academic. Learning and personal faith go together. But
no education is a substitute for a living Christian faith., In April,
three months before the Bristol Education Society was founded,
Caleb Evans gave an address to the students, the manuscript
of which the College still possesses. Here are some extracts:
"Reflect on your views in devoting yourselves to this sacred
employ. Was it merely to have an opportunity of pursuing diff~
erent branches of literature to which you had perhaps a strong
inclination? Was it that you might lead an easy, genteel life,
which you might be ready to support a minister's life to be?
Was it to obtain popular applause and fame, which you might
fondly hope your abiliti~s would procure you? Or was it from
the principle of unfeigned love to Jesus Christ and to the souls
of men? The question the Lord put to Peter, 'Lovest thou me?'
is a question I would earnestly entreat you to consider. Let me
exhort you to the vigorous pursuit of your studies in general.
There is scarcely any branch of knowledge but what may be
useful. Whatever hath a tendency to enlarge our ideas of the
divine perfections, to give us a Clearer view of the meaning of
Scripture and enable us to express our thoughts . . . is worthy
of the attention of every candidate for the ministry".2B
   The eighteenth century was a time of intellectual and political
                          CAr.EB EvANS                        183

ferment. The growth of scientific knowledge, in astronomy, in
medicine, and in the explorations of men like Captain Cook.
who set foot in Australia in 1770, (the year the Bristol Educa-
tion Society was born,) continued to expand the horizons of
men's minds. It is interesting to think of some of the books that
influenced Caleb Evans' generation. Christianity not Mysterious
by Matthew Tindal, the so-called "Bible of Deism" appeared
seven years before Caleb's birth; Butler's Analogy was published
just before his birth. When Caleb was 20, David Hume wrote his
Natural History of Religion, Edward Gibbon's Decline and Fan
of the Roman Empire appeared in 1776, as also did Tom Paine's
Common Sense, which stimulated radical politics in the Amer.
ican Revolution. In the year of Caleb's death, Paine's Rights of
Man defended the principles of the French Revolution.
   In this situation of ferment some in the churches relapsed
into a cold intellectualism. Christianity was equated with respec-
table morality. Bishop Butler of Bristol told John Wesley that
his pretending to extraordinary revelations and to enthusiasm
was "a horrid thing, a very horrid thing". Many Presbyterians
and General Baptists became Unitarians. Others, especially Par-
ticular Baptists took refuge in their orthodox Calvinistic theol-
ogy, and retreated from involvement in any dialogue with the
world. But it was the glory of the Dissenting Academies that
they did not shrink from the challenge of new thinking. The
inclusion of scientific subjects in the curriculum marked them
as more progressive educational institutions than Oxford and
Cambridge, which clung to the ancient classical traditions. The
work at Bristol Academy fits into this robust outlook. Caleb and
Hugh introduced their students to languages and logic and
rhetoric. But they also included elements of geography, astron-
omy and natural philosophy "To enlarge and elevate their
conceptions of the work of God and His great and glorious per;
fections". Until recently the College retained some of the
scientific instruments used in the classroom.
   Caleb Evans urged the College Committee to build up a good
library and he raised the money for this purpose. Dr. Andrew
Gifford and Dr. Llewellyn were two of the earliest benefactors,
and they both bequeathed their own vaulable libraries in 1784.
It was hoped by Gifford that Bristol College would apply for a
Charter as a University, but "the modesty of the present tutors
would not permit them to go forward with so vast a design".
But it was significant that Morgan Edwards, a student under
Foskett, founded Brown University, Rhode Island, U.S.A. This
University conferred on Caleb Evans a D.D. in 1789, and King's
College Aberdeen, similarly honoured him with a D.D. in 1790.
   Dr. Caleb Evans realised that if the mind is to grow, there
184                  THE BAPTIST QUARTERLY


must be freedom and leisure for scholars. In his sermon to the
Society in 1775 he expresses again in his own way what his
father had said two years before about the need for educated
ministry, and then, addressing the subscribers, he added: "Are
any singled out by churches of Christ as persons they hope God
may own and bless? You kindly invite them, dropping their
secular pursuits, to come and sit down under the friendly shade
of your patronage, that the way of God may be expounded to
them more perfectly". Benevolent, generous design indeed!
God has blessed it and will bless it!" Behind the appeal for
money is the challenge to provide future ministers with the
leisure and the freedom to grow in knowledge and in faith.
Other BaptiJst Education Societies.
    The Bristol Education Society set a pattern which others soon
 followed. William Staughton, a student under Caleb Evans,
became an influential Baptist minister in Philadelphia, and
founded the Philadelphia Education Society which promoted
ministerial education in the Middle States.
   In Wales for 40 years Trosnant Academy educated Welsh
students for the Baptist ministry, and some of them came on to
Bristol for further training. From 1770, when it closed, until
1807 Bristol provided for the needs of Welsh candidates for the
ministry. (There were complaints that the teaching in Bristol
was hampered because several students did not have much
knowledge of English.) In 1807 an academy was opened at
Abergavenny, and Caleb's widow donated £10. Micah Thomas,
a student of Bristol, became the first tutor. This is now Cardiff
Baptist College. John Fawcett was not a "Bristol man" but he
was invited to become Principal, though he declined, and he
stimulated the formation of the Northern Education Society in
1804 which became Rawdon College, and Dr. William Steadman,
the first Principal, was a student under Caleb Evans. In London
early attempts to provide for ministerial training proved un·
successful, but in 1809 the London Education Society, which
invited one of Dr. Ryland's students, Solomon Young, to become
the first Principal, set in motion Regent's Park College. It was
John Sutcliffe's entry to Bristol College in 1772 that led Dan
Taylor to form an Education Society for the General Baptists.
Social Responsibility.
Caleb Evans was a younger contemporary of John Wesley, born
two years before Wesley's work began at Kingswood and Bristol.
They died in the same year, 1791. They faced the same political
and social challenges, and though Wesley's involvment in social
and philanthropic work ranged more widely, many of their
activities were parallel. The industrial revolution was increasing
in its momentum towards the end of their lives. Both were con·
cerned about poverty and ignorance. In a letter in 1786 Broad·
                          CALEB EVANS                         185

mead church reported on developments at Downend. 29 Here the
"preaching of the gospel in a populous but ignorant neighbour-
hood" which had been undertaken for years in borrowed build-
ings now necessitated the opening of a commodious place of
worship. But before this social work had been done the Broad-
mead letter to the Association reports: "We have established
a school at this place for the education and clothing of 40 poor
children, and united with other congregations in another school
for the education and clothing of 100 poor children, and we
cannot help expressing the wish that similar plans might be
adopted throughout our churches. The utility and importance
of such an institute cannot easily be estimated, and, were there
a general disposition in all to strive together, they might be
more easily established than is imagined by those who can never
make the experiment". 30 This modesty conceals the initiative
and personal involvment of the minister of Broadmead who
directed the project, and who was involved in other schools too.
He was one of the founders of the Broadmead Charity School
which cared for 20 boys and girls, and every week he visited the
school to pray with the children and instruct them. All his social
concern sprang from a pastoral heart, as many tributes on the
occasion of his death testify. "He was always ready to show
kindness of heart, not waiting to be asked, but was foremost
with his advice, his purse, and his prayers in every design
calculated to relieve distress, instruct the ignorant, give ease
to the pained, and health to the sick, to sooth the miseries of
age and rescue giddy youth from the early habits of vice" .,<1
Benjamin Francis in his elegy pays similar tribute:
     "Philanthropy diffused through all his soul,
     Planned his fair life and aggrandised the whole.
     In him the husband, parent and the friend
     Their various charms were ever seen to blend.
     His hand relieved the sons of want around;
     The fatherless in him a father found.
     The friendless widow and her infant care
     Were sure his aid and sympathy to share".32
It is characteristic of his breadth of outlook, to which the evi-
dence points throughout his life, that the children at the school
at Downend attended Divine worship at the parish church
under the instruction of persons professing the established re-
ligion. From his confession of faith onwards a remarkable
charity of spirit characterises his attitude to other denomina-
tions. Indeed, the rules of the Bristol Education Society ex-
pressly provides for non-Baptists to share its lectures. Anglicans
were among the early subscribers to the funds of the Bristol
Education Society.
186                  THE BAPTIST QUARTERLY


Political Liberty.
    Caleb Evans was not merely concerned with private charity.
 Some evangelical philanthropists of the 18th and early 19th
 centuries have been accused of a patronising attitude .to the
 poor and of "blind spots" in their approach to larger social issues.
 Not so Caleb Evans. In 1775 he preached on the theme of
 "Constitutional liberty", at the time when republicanism was
 being advocated by some, particularly under the impact of rad-
 ical politicians in the American colonies and in Britain. "The
 only civil liberty we desire is that constitutional liberty to
 which we have been called, and of which it is the glory of the
 illustrious house of Hanover to be the guardians. But the liberty
 to which we as Britons and Protestants are called is not civil
but religious liberty".33 He expressed the hope that the provis-
 ions of the Act of Toleration would be yet further improved to
 allow every conscientious man "to sit quietly under the shade of
 it without fear of disturbances". Again, at the centenary of the
 1688 revolution, Broadmead listened to a peroration by their
 pastor on "British Freedom Realised", 34 based ori a text from
 Ezekiel, "I will overturn, overturn it, and it shall be no more
 until he comes whose right it is, and I will give it". The sermon
clearly argues that, in accordance with New Testament princi-
 ples, "Christians should not resist a good king or seek to over-
throw a government that has minor imperfections". But when
civil and religious liberty are denied "to submit to a wicked
hereditary tyrant is not only not our duty, but it is a great sin".
Thus the preacher praised William III and George Ill, but took
his stand with those who opposed J ames IT and resisted the
Jacobite plots.                  .                    .
    At the revolt of the American colonies in 1775, John Wesley
used all his influence to achieve a peaceful settlement, and de-
plored the use of force. He came out with his "Calm Address
to our American colonies". To some this seemed quietist and
Tory-reactionary. Wesley argued that there was no tyranny in
the British Government imposing taxes on the Colonists, who
had accepted the British Charter, even though they had no
representative in the Houses of Parliament. Caleb Evans pub-
lished a reply, under the pen-name of Americanus (1778)
"Taxation and representation are inseparable. This position is
founded in the laws and statutes going back to the reign of
Edward 1. Forty shillings a year freehold gives an Englishman
a voice in the legislation of the country, and why should we
deprive of this privilege our fellow citizens in America". 36
    Thus Caleb Evans was in line with progressive opinion, though
he resisted the more extreme radicalism that advocated repub·
licanism. As a Dissenter, he must have been aware of his political
disabilities, and elsewhere he took his part in the Western
                           OALEB EVANS                          187

Association's call for a repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts.
But he does not intrude any special pleading in his letter to
John Wesley.
The Anti-Slave Trade Movement.
    Wesley and Caleb Evans were, happily, on the same side in
 their opposition to the Slave Trade although I have not discov-
 ered direct co-operation:, most probably because Wesley used his
 influence in London, whereas Evans worked in Bristol. The three
 centres of the trade were London, Bristol and Liverpool, al-
 though towards the end of the 18th century Bristol's interest
 had declined, due to economic rather than ethical reasons.
 Manufactured goods left Bristol for West Africa, where they
 were used to purchase negroes, who were then shipped under
 appalling conditions across the Atlantic. The third 'leg' of the
 journey involved carrying cargoes of tobacco and sugar, from
 the West Indies chiefly, back to Bristol. In the summer of 1787
Thomas Clarkson was sent by the Anti-Slave Trade Society in
London to collect evidence to present to Parliament. In Bristol
 he found ready co-operation, especially from the Quakers, but
 also from Anglicans and Dissenters. At the "Seven Stars" and
 other public houses he interviewed sailors who related the bru-
tality with which the negroes were treated on the middle passage
from Africa to America. Clarkson writes in his account of his
visit to Bristol: "The hearts of those who were concerned in
this traffic usually hardened, that I readily believe any atrocities
which might be related. It made my blood boil within me. It
gave new springs to my exertions".86 When Clarkson moved on
to Liverpool the local citizens continued the cause, and in Janu-
ary 1788 a meeting was held at the Guildhall, sponsored by the
Lord Mayor and chaired by a former Sheriff. "The list of prom-
inent suporters" included the Deans of Bristol and Gloucester,
Caleb Evans and J. P. Estlin, prominent dissenting ministers".37
Clarkson mentions "Mr. Hughes, a clergyman of the Baptist
Church" - presumably Joseph Hughes of the Pithay Church
who became a tutor at the College.
   The committee concerned with the abolition of the trade
came into strong conflict with Bristol merchants and others who,
forced to admit the existence of barbarous conditions on the slave
ships, tried to divert attention to the making of laws to regulate,
but not abolish, the trade. But in favour of abolition 1,000 signa-
tures were collected. The Western Association in 1788 passed a
resolution and voted £5.5.0 to the funds of the National Com-
mittee, and it was to Caleb Evans that Granville Sharp wrote
thanking the Association. The conflict in Bristol continued, and
doubtless, but for his illness leading to his death in 1791, Caleb
Evans would have exerted a more conspicuous influence.
Writing and Preaching.
188                  THE BAPTIST QUARTERLY


    More than 30 publications, mostly pamphlets and sermons,
 were published by Evans. Special mention may be made of his
 collaboration with Dr. John Ash of Pershore, another Bristol
 College man, in publishing a collection of hymns adapted for
 public worship. First published in 1778, it went into nine editions.
 One of the later publications was Christ Crucified, four sermons
 on the Atonement based on 1 Corinthians 1, 23-24.
    Concerning his preaching, it was said "it was solid and judi-
 cious, the fruit of mature thought and labour. He did not offer
 God that whiCh cost him nothing ... his discourses were mostly
 on weighty and serious subjects, composed with judgment in
 the best order, delivered with manly dignity and becoming
 warmth and zeal". 38 Sometimes he preached from full notes,
 sometimes without any - this was a matter of policy - but he
 was always well prepared. Stennett says he excelled in prayer,
 and was particularly remarkable for the pertinence and fullness
 of matter upon special occasions. 39 Incidentally, he advised his
 students against "preaching prayers, a mere narration and now
 and then a petition tacked on . . . This is not leading but mis-
 leading the devotions of the congregation".
   As a pastor and leader of his people he was well respected
 and faithful, hardworking. "His manner was grave, not formal,
animated but not affected, commanding but not assuming".40
The Broadmead minutes reveal a very delicate situation at
church meetings a few months before his last illness. Young
Robert Hall, who had been assistant minister for seven years,
resigned, stating: "My opinion on some points of religion and
moral speculation are different from the church", but the corres-
pondence makes it abundantly clear that Hall had no clash of
opinion with his senior collegue. "The Pastor has my approbation
and applause". A church meeting followed at which members
suggested that Hall should be re-invited as assistant minister.
Caleb told the meeting: "Rather than that I should overawe or
influence the meeting, I wish to withdraw from the chair". This
was agreed, and John Harris, the senior deacon who was
currently Lord Mayor of Bristol, took the chair. There were
several meetings, and much division of opinion about procedure.
But Robert Hall's acceptance of a call to Cambridge closed the
matter for Broadmead.
   Caleb Evans was married twice. In 1762 he married Sarah
Jeffries of Taunton, "whose amiable character endeared her to
all who had the happiness of her acquaintance". She had five
children. She died in 1771. Three years later Caleb married
Sarah Hazel "the daughter of a very respectable family in
Bristol". His mother's name was also Sarah.
   For several months before he died in August 1791, at the
relatively early age of 54, Caleb lay paralysed. by a stroke.
                            OALEB EVANS                            189

Rippontecords: "During these months his mind in general was
much taken up with the employ of heaven, though he also con-
tinued a lively interest in his lifetime affairs. In humble abase-
ment of spirit he did often speak of himself as a fallen, depraved
creature. But when he contemplated his privileges as a redeem·
ed, regenerate sinner, his joy was unutterable. With rapture
he exclaimed '0 the breadth and length, and depth and height
of the love of Christ which passeth knowledge. Behold what
manner of love the Father has bestowed upon us that he should
be called the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we
shall be.' "41
                                NOTES
 1. John Rippon, Essay on Bristol Academy (1795) Rippon's Register
     II p.434.
 2. John Rippon, ibid, p.435.
 3. Caleb Evans, Sermon on death of Mrs. Ann Evans (1776) p.23.
 4. John Rippon, op. cit., II p.442.
 5. Hugh Evans, Address at Caleb Evans' Ordination (1767) p.5.
 6. Caleb Evans, Confession of Faith delivered at his ordination
     (1767).
 7. G. F. Nuttall, Baptist Quarterly, XXII (1968) p.425.
 8. W. L. Lumpkin, Baptist Confessions of Faith, (1969) p.212.
 9.. W. L. Lumpkin, ibid, p.213.
10. L. G. Champion, Farthing Rushlight, (1961) p.5.
11. Benjamin Francis, Elegy on the death of Caleb Evans (1791)
     Rippon's Register I p.248.
12. Samuel Stennett, Sermons on death of Caleb Evans (1791) p;29.
13. John Thomas, ibid, p.53.                               ,
14. Hugh Evans, Sermon before Bristol Education Societiy, (1773)
     p.66ff.
15. Hugh Evans, ibid, p.36.
16. See Samuel How,The Sufficiency of the Spirit's Teaching with·
    out Human Learning (1639).
17. James Ivimey, see also R. E. Cooper, From Stepney to St. Giles,
    (1960) pp. 14ff. History of English Baptists, Vo!. II (1814) p.547.
18. James Ivimey, ibid, Vol. I (1811) pp.415·20.
19. James Ivimey, ibid, Vo!. I (1811) p.417.
20. E. B. Underhill, Broadmead Records, (1847) p.xcii.
21. A. Dakin, Bristol Baptist College 250 years 1679·1929 (1929) p.14.
22. James Ivimey, ibid, Vo!. I p.479.
23. James Ivimey, ibid, Vol. I p.495.
24. James Ivimey, ibid, Vol. I p.500.
25. James Ivimey, ibid, Vo!. I p.528. See also R. E. Cooper, op. cit.,
    pp.15·19 and Baptist Register II pp.418-20.
26. John Rippon, op. cit., II p.426.
    (1969) Obtainable from Bristol College.
28. See John Rippon, Register I pp.345·51.
29. Broadmead Records of this period (unpublished MSS).
30. Western Association Letters, 1784.
31. John ThDmas, op. cit., p.54.
32. Benjamin Francis, op. cit., p.249.
33. Caleb Evans, Sermon on Constitutional Liberty (1775).
34. Caleb Evans, British Freedom Realised (1788).
35. Caleb Evans, Letter to Mr. Wesley (1775).
36. Thomas Clarkson, Historly of the Rise, Progress and Accomplish·
190                    THE BAPTIST QUARTERLY


      ment of the Abolition of the African Slave Trade (1880) Vol. I
    pp.292-367.                   .            .
37. Peter Marshall, The Anti-Slave Trade Movement in Bristol (1968)
      ~a                          .
38.   John Thomas, op. cit., p.55.
39.   Samuel Stennett, ibid, p.28.
40.   Samuel Stennett, op; cit., p.39.
41.   John Rippon, op. cit., II p.447.
                                                 NORMAN S. MOON.

                            Reviews
Die Mennoniten. Herausgegeben von Hans-JUrgen Goertz. Die
Kirchen der Welt, Band VIII. Evangelisches Verlagshaus,
Stuttgart, 1971. 286pp. DM 32.
       ENNONITES and Baptists belong to the same ecclesiastical
 M     family. They may not unfairly be described as cousins,
Mennonites coming of an older branch. Of recent generations
Baptists have had few contacts with them. In the 17th and 18th
centuries correspondence was fairly frequent and friendly,
though fitful. It was a sound instinct which led the founders
of the Baptist World Alliance to invite their relatives to London
in 1905 and to include them in the statistics, which were then
compiled. I was glad to be able to have Mennonite fraternal
delegates with us at the. Golden Jubilee Congress fifty years
later.
   The relationship gives added interest and importance to this
volume, which is one of the series on the Churches for which
Dr. J. D. flughey produced a Baptist contribution some years
ago. The volume has other significant features. It is a sympos-
ium and the contributors are most of them younger scholars,
who are playing leading roles in a Mennonite "renewal" move-
ment, the source of which may be described - using a Biblical
analogy - as a re digging of the old wells.
   The heart of the volume is in two main sections, the first
treating of the main Mennonite doctrines, the second describing
the geographical range and variety of the community. The
historical background is provided by an introductory essay by
Heinfold Fast, editor of a valuable book of documents connected
with the left wing of the Reformation. A closing essay by Paul
Peachey, who has studied the sociological origin of the Swiss
Brethren, looks to the future in the framework of the Ecumenical
Movement.
  A determination to relate Mennonites to their Christian
brethren is evident throughout. Waiter Klaassen, a Canadian,
who after studying at McMaster University spent three years
at Regent's Park College, writes on "Word and Spirit" and does
