DOCUMENT_ID: rippon-1795-essay
TITLE (as printed): A Brief Essay Towards an History of the Baptist Academy at Bristol; Read Before the Bristol Education Society, at their Anniversary Meeting, in Broadmead, August 26th, 1795.
DATE: address delivered 26 August 1795; printed in The Baptist Annual Register, for 1794, 1795, 1796-1797 (issue covering Dec. 1796)
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://archive.org/details/baptistannualreg00ripp (djvu text: https://archive.org/download/baptistannualreg00ripp/baptistannualreg00ripp_djvu.txt)
EDITION: John Rippon, ed., The Baptist Annual Register, vol. 2 (London, 1794-97); this excerpt corresponds to pp. 413-454 of that volume as printed (running heads visible in OCR)
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (Internet Archive-supplied OCR, engine unstated, _djvu.txt derivative); NOT re-OCR'd or corrected by this session; excerpted to the essay's own pages within the larger Register volume (full volume is ~39,450 OCR lines; this file holds only the Bristol Academy essay and immediately surrounding running heads)
TOTAL PAGES: pp. 413-454 as printed (per running heads in the OCR)
WORD COUNT: approx. 12,500 words (this excerpt)
OCR QUALITY NOTE: OCR quality is markedly better than bes-account-1776; the long s is consistently misread as "f" (e.g. "focietas" for "societies") rather than rendered as "ſ"; otherwise legible running prose. This session did not re-OCR the source.

AT'  BRISTOL; 

* 

READ  BEFORE 

THE  BRISTOL  EDUCATION  SOCIETY, 

At  their  Anniverfary  Meeting ,  in  Broadmead , 

Auguji  26th)  1795. 

By  JOHN  RIBBON,  D.  D. 


BRETHREN  AND  FATHERS, 

TN  the  courfe  of  your  Anniverfaries,  the  Flower 
^  of  the  denomination  to  which  we  belong  have 
appeared  before  you ;  and  what  article  of  intereft- 
ing  confideration  have  they  omitted !  When  I  think 
of  the  fubjefts  of  their  addrefs,  and  the  great  names 
who  have  difcuffed  them ;  I  have  feared  that  it  might 
not  be  within  the  compafs  of  my  ability  to  bring  into 
your  aflembly  any  topic  at  all  fuited  to  this  occa- 
fion.  But  it  occurred  to  me  at  length,  that  there  is 
one  fubject  quite  untouched — yet  this,  unhappily  for 
me,  a  fubjeft  of  prodigious  magnitude,  which  in¬ 
volves  difficulties,  requires  materials  ancient  and 
modern,  with  catalogues  of  names,  and  volumes  of 

*  This  Eflay,  to  which  the  candour  of  the  Briftol  Education 
Society  gave  publication,  is  fomewhat  abridged  in  the  Regifter, 
but  is  printed  at  large  in  a  pamphlet  by  itfelf,  which  includes 
feveral  paragraphs  here  omitted,  that  had  appeared  before  in 
preceding  numbers  of  this  periodical  work. 

F  f  3  chara&erj 


\ 


4X4  FORMER  STATE  OF  RELIGION 

character  ;  fo  that  now  my  embarraffment  was  greater 
than  before  :  I  refer  to  the  History  of  the  Bap¬ 
tist  Academy,  at  Bristol.  This  1  am  not  pre¬ 
pared  to  give  ;  but  I  have  prevailed  on  myfelf  to  look 
towards  the  fubjeft.  And  if  I  may  be  fuffered  to  avail 
myfelf  of  a  few  papers  which  have  already  appeared 
in  print — to  give  a  portrait  inflead  of  a  long  length 
pidure — to  hint  as  it  may  fuit,  without  detailing— 
and  to  introduce  names  with  or  without  character ; 
then,  relying  on  the  plenitude  of  your  candor,  I 
fha!l,  after  making  a  few  prefatory  remarks  on  the 
former  hate  of  religion  and  learning  among  us,  at¬ 
tempt  an  Effay  towards  an  Hiftory  of  this  inffitution 
from  its  beginning. 

Were  I  to  unite  what  we  contemplate  with  any 
feled  portion  of  feripture,  and  to  preach  a  fermon, 
I  fhoul-d  remind  you  of  a  glowing  promife  in  the 
45th  Pfalm,  1 6th  verfe.  Injiead  of  thy  Fathers  Jh all 
he  thy  Children ,  whom  thou  mayejl  make  Princes  in  all 
the  Earth . 

Thefe  animating  brains  feem  to  be  addreffed  to 
the  Meffiah,  for  the  confplation  of  his  bride,  whole 
trouble  was  anticipated  that  it  might  be  leffened.  And 
they  teach  us,  by  implication,  that  among  the  diftreffes 
of  the  children  of  Zion,  fome  of  the  moft  pungent 
would  arife  from  the  death  of  thofe  anceftors  and 
friends  of  Chrift,  who  in  their  generations  were  dif- 
tinguifhed  by  a  truly  paternal  regard  to  the  whole 
church.  But  that  the  myftical  head,  and  the  mem¬ 
bers  of  his  body  might  have  fupport  under  their 

forrows, 


f 


4*5 


AND  LEARNING  AMONG  THE  BAPTISTS. 

forrows,  affurances  are  here  given,  that  when  David 
and  Solomon,  and  the  holy  Prophets  were  no  more, 
the  Apoftles  and  other  good  men  fhould  be  raifed 
up  in  their  (lead— that “  when  the  Jews  were  broken 
off  from  the  Olive  tree,  the  Gentiles  fhould  be 
grafted  into  it;”  after  which  a  fruitful  progeny 
fhould  arife  from  the  Redeemer's  groans,  whofe  wif- 
dom  and  integrity,  whofe  piety  and  zeal,  whofe  gene- 
rofity  to  men  and  power  with  God,  fhould  capacitate 
them  honorably  to  fill  the  Rations  of  their  anceftors, 
and  to  died,  in  their  fucceflive  generations,  an  influ¬ 
ence  which  fhall,  at  lafi,  felicitate  the  Globe. 

But  as  Hiftory  and  not  Prophecy  folicits  our  at¬ 
tention  to  day,  I  {hall  waive  a  farther  confideration 
of  this  beautiful  prediction,  requefting,  however, 
leave  to  carry  the  couplet  with  me  as  the  motto  of 
our  difcourfe. 

While  our  Antipsedobaptifl  forefathers  were  in¬ 
termingled  among  other  denominations  of  Chriftians, 
and  had  not  yet  formed  diftinCt  and  feparate  focie- 
ties ;  their  religion  and  learning  mud  be  eftimated, 
in  general,  by  the  piety  and  erudition  of  thofe  good 
men,  to  whom  they  were  affectionately  united,  and 
with  whom  they  wor {hipped.  We  had  at  that  time 
literary  men,  whofe  abilities  reflected  honor  on 
themfelves,  and  on  the  caufe  they  efpoufed;  and  of 
thefe,  fotne  who  ranked  high  among  the  learned 
were  difpofed  to  teach.  Such,  however,  was  the 
unfettled  ftate  of  affairs  in  the  Protectorate,  and  fo 
great  the  perfections  of  our  brethren  and  other 

F  f  4 


noncon- 


416 


REV.  JOHN  TOMBES,  B.  D. 


nonconformifts  afterwards,  from  the  Reftoration  in 
iooo,  till  the  glorious  Revolution  in  1688,  that  we 


muft  110t  be  ^urprifed  if  we  find  no  fplendid  Semi- 
naries  of  learning  among  the  Baptifts,  or  any  other 
ProtdI ant  Diflenters  in  thole  early  days.  Indeed 
feveral  of  the  ejefted  or  filenced  minifters,  in  diffe¬ 


rent  counties,  took  under  their  care  a  few  young 
men  of  pro  mi  frag  abilities  for  the  miniftry,  and,  with¬ 
out  regard  to  our  diflinguifhing  fentiments,  aftifted 
them  in  their  preparatory  ftudies  for  facred  fervice. 
Senior  Psedobaptifts  helped  junior  Antipasdobap- 
tins,  and  venerable  minifters  of  the  Baptift  denomi¬ 
nation  were  the  tutors  of  amiable  Pmdobaptifts. 

it  is  not  eafy  for  me  to  fay  with  precifion,  how 
early  in  the  laft  century  our  learned  brethren,  in 
this  country,  began,  among  themf elves ,  to  educate 
their  juniors  for  the  work  of  the  miniftry.  Though 
it  is  certain,  if  they  had  not  been  much  inclined  to 
it  before,  the  aft  of  uniformity  in  1662,  made  it  ne- 
ceffary  for  them  to  turn  their  attention  to  this  object, 
for  now  the  feats  of  learning  were  made  fo  difficult 
or  accels  by  oaths  and  fubfcriptions,  as  to  prevent 
the  admiffion  of  the  wife  and  good,  who  were  of 


nonconforming  principles. 

The  earlieft  Baptift  Preceptor  of  whom  I  have  any 
account,  is  the  famous  Mr.  John  Tombes,  of  Bewd- 
ley,  Worcefterfhire ;  a  man  whofe  attainments  fitted 
him  for  any  Ration  in  which  learning  and  piety  were 

requifite.  The  noted  Mr.  Wall,  in  his  elaborate  Hif- 

* 

tory  of  Infant  Baptifm  fays,  that  “  of  the  profefled 

Antipaedobaptifls, 


AND  HIS  PUPILS,  1650.  417 

Antipsedobaptifts,  Mr.  Tombes  was  a  man  of  the  beft 
parts  in  our  nation,  and  perhaps  in  any  other.” 
And  Dr.  Calamy's  honorable  teftimony  of  him  is, 
that  he  was  a  perfon  cc  whom  all  the  world  muft  own 
to  have  been  a  refpeftable  man,  and  an  excellent 
fcholar.”  This  learned  divine,  about  the  year  1650, 
took  under  his  tuition  three  amiable  young  men ; 
Mr.  Boylfton,  of  whom  no  particulars  are  in  my 
poffeflion ;  Mr.  Richard  Adams,  and  Mr.  John  Ec- 
cles.  Mr.  Adams  in  1662  was  ejefted  from  his 
living  at  Humberftone  in  Leicefterfhire,  was  after¬ 
wards  paftor  of  the  Baptift  church  near  Devonfhire- 
fquare,  London;  and  at  length  died  in  a  good  old 
age.  Mr.  Eccles  became  paftor  of  the  Baptift  church 
at  Bromfgrove,  fuffered  much  for  nonconformity, 
preached  the  Gofpel  there  and  at  Coventry  near  fixty 
years  with  reputation,  and  died  honorably  in  the 
year  17 1 1. 

By  a  manufcript  letter  in  my  poffefilon,  dated 

__  \ 

London,  the  2d  of  the  8th  month  1675,  many 
copies  of  which  were  fent  to  the  churches  in  the 
country,  I  find  that  our  minifters  of  London  invited 
their  brethren  of  the  Baptift  perfuafion,  throughout 
England  and  W  ales,  to  meet  the  following  May,  in 
the  metropolis,  with  a  view  to  form  a  plan  for  the 
providing  an  orderly  handing  miniftry  in  the  church, 
who  might  give  themfelves  to  reading  and  ftudy,  and 
10  become  able  minifters  of  the  New  Teftament. 
This  letter  is  figned  by  moft  of  the  London  paftors, 
among  whom  were  the  learned  Daniel  Dyke,  Wil¬ 
liam 


4 1 S  GENERAL  ASSEMBLY  IN  LONDON,  1689. 

liam  Collins,  Henry  Forty,  and  William  Kiffin.  The 
refult  of  this  propofal  I  am  yet  to  learn. 

It  is  of  general  publicity,  that  the  minifters  and 
meffengers  of  more  than  100  baptized  congregations 
in  England  and  Wales  met,  in  a  General  Aflembly  at 
London,  in  September  1689,  to  confult  the  good 
of  the  whole  denomination.  At  this  convention  they 
refolved  to  raife  a  fund  or  (lock,  for  the  advantage 
of  churches  who  were  not  able  to  maintain  their  own 
pallors  or  teachers, — for  fending  duly  qualified  minif- 
ters  from  the  city  and  the  country,  to  vifit  the 
churches,  and  to  preach  the  gofpel  where  it  was  not 
at  that  time  publifhed, — and  for  affiffing  members  of 
churches  who  had  promifing  gifts,  were  found  in 
fundamentals,  and  inclined  to  ftudy,  in  attaining  to 
the  knowledge  of  the  Latin,  Greek,  and  Hebrew. 
Towards  thefe  benevolent  purpofes,  different  con¬ 
gregations  made  collections,  and  among  them  the 
church  in  the  Pithay,  Briftpl,  fent  up  by  the  hands  of 
their  paftor,  the  renowned  Andrew  Gifford,  thirty 
pounds. 

About  four  months  after  the  General  Aflembly  had 
met,  our  brethren,  from  the  church  at  Plymouth, 
wrote  a  letter  to  the  metropolis  (the  original  is  before 
me)  with  which  they  remit  to  the  truftees  of  the 
fund  a  collection  of  27k  3s.  8d.  and  a  proinife  of 
nine  pounds  per  annum,  to  be  entirely  difpofed  of  in 
the  education  of  young  miniflers — obferving  that  if  this 
contribution  were  applied  to  the  general  ufes  ol  the 
fund,  and  not  to  the  very  purpofe  for  which  it  was 

collected,  no  more  would  be  fent.  1  his  letter  con¬ 
tains 


A  BAPTIST  STUDENT  AT  BRISTOL  IN  1689.  419 

tains  the  recommendation  of  a  Baptift;  ftudent,  at 
Brijlol.  As  he  was  the  very  firft,  of  whom  I  have 
any  account,  who  was  educated  in  this  city,  though 
not  on  our  prefent  foundations,  a  fhort  account  of 
him  may  be  admiflible. 

m 

This  young  man  was  Mr.  Richard  Sampfon,  a 
member  of  the  church  at  Plymouth.  He  had  been 
for  fome  time  devoted  to  the  attainment  of  claflical 
knowledge,  before  the  meeting  of  the  General  Af- 
fembly  in  1689.  Yet  application  was  made  to  the 
truftees  of  the  propofea  fund  in  London,  requeuing 
that  he  might  remain  at  Briftol  two  or  three  years 
longer,  and  have  the  expences  of  his  board  and  edu¬ 
cation  defrayed.  It  feems  the  petition  was  granted. 

His  tutor  was  a  Mr.  Thomas  in  this  city,  of  whom 
we  learn  from  Dr.  Calamy,  that  he  was  a  minifter 
at  Briftol  in  Oliver’s  time,  and  continued  fo  after- 
terwards,  was  invited  to  conform  by  confiderable 
offers  in  Wales,  but  refufed  to  the  laft.  He  was 
educated  at  Oxford,  trained  up  many  for  the  mi- 
niftry,  and  died  at  Briftol  in  1693. 

After  Mr.  Sampfon  had  finifhed  his  ftudies,  he 
became  paftor  of  the  Baptift  church  at  Exeter,  in 
1692.  Under  his  labours,  certain  records  inform 
us,  that  the  congregation  flourifhed  greatly,  fo  that 
the  meeting-houfe  would  not  hold  above  half  the 
people  who  fometimes  affembled.  Mr.  Sampfon  was 
much  efteemed  by  Sir  Ifaac  Newton  ;  and  fo  ftrong 
was  his  memory,  that  one  day,  when  the  converfa— 
tion  turned  on  the  depriving  good  men  again  of  their 

bibles, 


420 


MR.  EDWARD  TERRILL 


bibles,  Sir  Ifaac  laid,  they  cannot  poffibly  deprive 
Mr.  Sampfon  of  his,  for  he  has  it  all  treafured  up 
within  him.  Mr.  Richard  Sampfon  died  at  Exeter, 
in  1716.  His  fon  was,  for  many  years,  paftor  of 
the  church  at  Tiverton,  where  his  grandfon,  well 
known  to  fome  prefent,  now  refides— -I  mean  }ames 
Sampfon,  Efq;  late  his  Majefty’s  conful  general  to 
the  Dey  of  Algiers,  and  then  in  1770,  to  the  Em¬ 
peror  of  Morocco,  at  Tetuan. 

From  the  death  of  Mr.  Thomas  at  Briftol,  in  1693, 
our  candidates  for  the  miniflry,  fo  far  asT  can  learn, 
were  educated  in  London,  at  Taunton,  Tewkefbury, 
and  elfewhere.  Hitherto  I  have  no  proof  of  the  ex- 
iftence  of  any  permanent  fociety  among  the  Baptifts, 
for  the  education  of  young  minifters. 

But  here  with  peculiar  pleafure  and  veneration  wc 
introduce  the  name  of  Terrill,  the  father  and 
founder  of  the  Baptifl  Academy  in  this  city. 

Mr.  Edward  Terrill  was  born  about  March, 
1 635.  The  good  work  of  grace  was  begun  in  his 
foul  when  he  was  19  years  of  age.  He  afterwards 
kept  a  reputable  fchool  in  this  city :  was  baptized  in 
*  1659,  and,  after  becoming  a  member  of  the  church 
in  Broadmead,  was  called  to  the  office  of  preaching 
elder.  Fie  was  feveral  times,  with  many  other  mem¬ 
bers  of  the  fame  church,  for  the  fake  of  a  good  con- 
fcience,  imprifoned  in  the  Newgate  at  Briftol ;  en¬ 
dured  his  perfections  as  a  good  foldier  of  Jefus,  and 
died  before  July  25,  16 86,  when  the  church  met  at 
Sifter  Terrill’s,  as  the  Broadmead  records  exprefs 

it, 


t 


FOUNDER  OF  THE  BRISTOL  ACADEMY, 


421 


it,  to  chufe  u  a  ruling  elder,  in  the  place  of  dear  bro¬ 
ther  Terrill  deceafed.”  This  excellent  perfon  was 
doubtlefs  a  competent  judge  of  the  advantages 
which  refult  to  men  in  common,  and  to  minifters  in 
particular,  from  a  good  education.  And  it  pleafed 
God  to  put  it  into  his  heart,  to  promote  this  objedt. 
He  left  fomething  confiderable  to  the  paftor  of  the 
church  in  Broadmead,  for  the  time  being,  under 
the  following  conditions:  cc  Provided  he  be  an  holy 
man,  well  fkilled  in  the  Greek  and  Hebrew  tongues, 
in  which  the  fcriptures  were  originally  written  ;  and 
devote  three  afternoons  in  the  week  to  the  inftruc- 
tion  of  any  number  of  young  ftudents,  not  exceed¬ 
ing  twelve,  who  may  be  recommended  by  the 
churches,  in  the  knowledge  of  the  original  languages, 
and  other  literature.”  And  out  of  the  eftate  be¬ 
queathed  to  the  paftor  of  the  church,  he  left  ten 
pounds  per  annum,  to  be  applied  to  the  ufe  of  any 
ftudent  that  might  need  it,  and  be  approved  of  by 
his  truftees.  But  though  Mr.  Terrill  died  in  1685 
or  1 6 8(5,  it  has  been  faid,  that  the  eftate  did  not 
come  into  hand  till  about  the  year  1717. 

It  is  not  quite  certain  that  either  Mr.  Thomas  Vauxe, 
the  paftor,  in  1687,  or  Mr.  Peter  Kitterell,  his  fuccef- 
lor,  in  1707,  were  elected  into  their  office  under  the 
limitation  of  the  above  claufe;  but  by  a  letter  in  which 
Dr.  Evans  favoured  me  with  a  brief  account  of 
Broadmead  church,  I  learn,  that  “  Mr.  Caleb  Jope 
was  chofen  to  educate  young  men,  as  well  as  to 
affift  Mr.  kitterell. ”  This  probably  was  in  the  year 

1710 


/ 


422  REV*  CALEB  JOPE,  1 7 1 1. 

1710  or  1711.  Of  Mr.  Jope  I  can  obtain  but  little 
information  from  the  invaluable  records  of  Broad- 
mead.  But  I  have  gathered  from  divers  manuferipts, 
that  he  was  intimately  acquainted  with  Plymouth 
church,  refided  in  the  beginning  of  his  ftudies  at 
Trowbridge,  and  from  thence  removed  to  Tewkfbury, 
under  the  tuition  of  Mr.  Jones,  whofe  feminary  was 
at  that  time  defervedly  in  high  repute,  and  produced, 
befides  other  noted  perfons,  Mr.  Pearfall,  of  Taun¬ 
ton  -y  Dr.  Chandler,  and  Dr.  Gifford,  of  London  ; 
Dr,  Butler,  afterwards  Bifhop  of  Briflol  and  Durham; 
and  alfo  the  late  learned  and  refpeftable  Dr,  Seeker, 
Arch  bifhop  of  Canterbury.  Mr.  Jope,  quitting  his 
ftation  in  1719,  removed  to  Exeter,  and  afterwards 
laboured  fome  time  at  Plymouth.  With  the  clofe  of 
his  life,  and  the  names  of  the  fludents  who  were  un¬ 
der  his  care,  I  am  totally  in  the  dark.  The  hiftory  of 
his  fucceffor  has  not  fhared  the  fame  fate,  for  we  are 
in  poffeffion  of  manufeript  and  printed  documents 
concerning  him. 

The  Rev.  Mr.  Bernard  Foskett,  fon  of  Mr. 
William  Fofkctt,  of  North  Crawley,  in  Bucks,  a  gen¬ 
tleman  of  good  repute,  eafy  fortune,  and  bleffed  with 
a  numerous  offspring,  was  born  March  10,  1684-5, 
near  Wooburn,  in  Bedfordfhire,  where  he  had  an 
eflate.  And  as  he  early  difeovered  a  tafle  for  learning, 
he  was  put  under  the  care  of  a  very  able  maker,  with 
whom  he  foon  made  confiderable  progrefs.  He  be¬ 
came  experimentally  acquainted  with  religion,  in  the 
early  part  of  life,  and  at  feventeen  years  of  age  joined 

the 


REV.  BERNARD  FOSKETT. 


423 


the  Baptift  church,  then  under  the  paftoral  care  of 
Mr.  Piggott,  in  Little  Wild-flreet,  London,  over 
which  our  excellent  friend,  the  Rev.  Dr.  Samuel 
Stennett,  I  hope  yet  prefides*.  About  this  time 
an  intimacy  had  commenced  between  Mr.  Fofkett, 
and  Mr.  John  Beddome,  (the  father  of  our  venerable 
friend,  the  Rev,  Benjamin  Beddome,  of  Bourton,  on 
the  water)  fome  years  after  a  refpedtable  minifter  of 
the  church  in  the  Pithay.  The  friendfhip  of  Mr.  John 
Beddome  and  Mr.  Fofkett  was  like  that  of  Jona¬ 
than  and  David,  and  laded  through  life.  Mr.  John 
Beddome  was  called  to  the  work  of  the  miniflry  by 
Mr.  Keach’s  church,  of  which  Dr.  Gill  was  after¬ 
wards  paftor,  and  was  fent  to  Henley  Arden,  near 
Aulcefter,  in  1697,  to  aflift  the  aged  Mr.  John  Willis, 
paftor  of  that  church,  who  died  about  1705.  A  few 
years  after  the  death  of  Mr.  Willis,  viz.  in  1711, 
Mr.  Fofkett,  who  had  been  regularly  called  to  the 
work  of  the  miniflry,  and  exercifed  his  preaching  ta¬ 
lents  feveral  years,  quitted  the  flattering  profpe&s  of 
his  profeffion  in  London,  preferring  the  character  of 
an  able  minifter  to  that  of  a  fkilful  phyfician,  and  re¬ 
moved  to  Henley  Arden,  a  place  to  which  his  pecu- 

*It  will  be  recollected  that  this  difeourfe  was  delivered  at 
Briftoi,  on  Auguft26,  1795?  when  it  was  hoped  that  the  DoCtor 
might  fnrvive  his  affliction;  but  at  the  dole  of  the  public  din¬ 
ner  of  the  lociety,  news  came  that  he  was  no  more.  On  its 
being  announced,  every  countenance  was  marked  with  bor¬ 
row,  and  every  voice  pronounced  the  eulogy  of  tributary 
efteem. 


liar 


424 


REV.  JOHN  BEDDOME. 


I 


liar  friendfhip  for  Mr.  Beddome  led  him  to  give  the 
preference.  At  Henley,  at  Bengeworth,  and  at  Aul- 
cefter,  thefe  two  worthies  continued  their  joint  la¬ 
bours,  till  the  year  1719,  when  Mr.  Fofkett  received 
a  prefling  invitation  from  Broadmead,  to  aflift  Mr. 
Kitterell,  their  pallor,  and  to  become  the  tutor  of  the 
academy  in  the  room  of  Mr.  Jope,  juft  removed  into 
the  well.  This  invitation  he  thought  it  his  duty  to 
accept,  and,  in  1720,  entered  on  his  double  charge 
with  great  lerioufnefs  and  firmnefs.  One  who  for 
upwards  of  twenty-four  years  ferved  with  him  in  the 
gofpel  of  Chrilt,  and  who  could  not  be  uninformed  of 
his  real  character,  has  favoured  us  with  a  biographi¬ 
cal  fketch  of  him  *9  which  demands  a  place  in  this 
eflay. 

<c  H 

is  natural  abilities  were  found  and  good  ; 
and  his  acquired  furniture,  of  which  he  never  aftecled 
making  a  great  fhew,  was  very  confiderable.-— 
He  had  a  clear  underftanding,  a  penetrating  judg¬ 
ment,  and  a  retentive  memory.  His  application  to 
ftudy  was  conllant  and  fevere:  but  though  he  was  of  a 
retired  and  contemplative  difpofition,  yet  he  was  not  fo 
far  detached  from  the  world,  as  to  be  wholly  unprac- 
tifed  in  the  duties  of  focial  life.  In  the  management 
of  his  temporal  concerns  he  was  inflexibly  juft  and 
honeft ;  in  his  counfels,  prudent  and  faithful ;  in  his 
friendfhips,  fmccre  and  Heady;  and  though  he  was 
/not  a  man  of  ftrong  paflions,  yet  in  the  relations  or 

*  This  (ketch  was  given  by  the  Rev.  Hugh  Evans. 

a  brother 


REV.  BERNARD  FOSKETT.  ,  425 

a  brother  and  a  fon,  he  was  tender  and  affectionate, 
dutiful  and  obedient.  His  conduct  as  a  Chridian, 
through  a  courfe  of  near  fixty  years,  was  molt  exem¬ 
plary  and  ornamental.  So  that  it  maybe  truly  faid  of 
him,  he  had  few  equals,  hardly  any  fuperiors.  Religion 
he  confidered  not  as  a  matter  of  mere  [peculation, 
but  as  an  affair  the  moft  facred  and  important.  How 
ferious  and  regular  he  was  in  his  private  devotions, 
in  his  attendance  on  family  and  public  worfhip,  and 
every  other  religious  exercife,  they  who  heft  knew 
him  will  be  readied  to  declare.  Nor  was  his  religion 
confined  to  the  clofet,  the  family,  or  the  houfe  of  God, 
but  happily  diffufed  its  facred  influence  through  his 
whole  life.  Few  they  were,  if  any,  of  the  Chridian 
virtues,  that  did  not  fhine  with  a  bright  and  diflin- 
guifhing ludre  in  his  temper  and  behaviour;  to  deli¬ 
neate  them  all  would  carry  me  too  far  :  I  mud  not, 
however,  omit  to  mention  what  he  was  always  caref  ul 
to  conceal,  his  dlfintereded  and  extenfive  benevo¬ 
lence  $  for  in  this,  as  well  as  in  many  ether  refpefts,  in 
imitation  of  his  divine  mader,  he  went  about  doing 
good.  The  neceflitous  and  deferving  without  diftinc- 
tion  partook  ot  his  bounty  ;  but  the  pious  poor  he 
ever  confidered  as  the  fpecial  objects  of  his  regard* 
And  while  he  often  judicioufly  preferibed  to  the  indi¬ 
gent  fick,  he  generoufly  fupplied  them  with  the  means 
of  obtaining  what  was  neceffary  to  their  relief.  And 
as  the  Gofpel  ever  held  the  highed  place  in  his  edeem, 
his  charities  were  chiefly  directed  in  fuch  a  manner  as 
tended  mod  effectually  to  promote  its  intereds ;  fo 
Aug.  17964  g  g  that 


426 


REV.  BERNARD  FOSKETT. 


that  the  poor  minifters  of  Chrift  lhared  very  largely 
in  his  compaffionate  regards,  and  were  multitudes 
of  them  refrelhed  by  his  liberality.  Nor  did  he  con¬ 
fine  his  benevolence  to  thofe  of  his  own  fentiments 
only,  but  cheerfully  extended  it  to  many  who  differ¬ 
ed  from  him.  In  a  word,  as  his  charities  were  thus 
generous  and  extenfive,  fo  the  prudence,  humanity, 
and  privacy,  with  which  they  were  conduced,  fecured 
to  him  the  moll  cordial  refpeft  from  thofe  who  fhared 
of  them,  as  well  as  merited  the  imitation  of  thofe  who 
could  not  avoid  knowing  them.  And  as  he  was  thus 
charitable  whilft  living,  fo  in  this  refpedt  as  well  as 
many  others,  being  dead  he  ftill  fpeaketh. 

cc  In  the  chara&er  of  a  minifler,  he  approved  him- 
felf  judicious,  prudent,  faithful  and  laborious.  His 
religious  principles,  which  were  thofe  commonly 
called  Calviniftical ,  he  ever  maintained  with  a  fteady 
Chriftian  zeal.  But  though  he  was  ftrenuous  for 
what  he  apprehended  to  be  the  truth,  yet  was  he  fond 
of  no  extreme.  While  he  ftrongly  afferted  the  ho¬ 
nours  of  free  grace,  he  earneflly  contended  for  the 
neceffity  of  good  works ;  preaching  duty  as  well  as 
privilege,  and  recommending  holinefs  as  the  only  way 
to  happinefs.  And  with  what  judgment,  ferioufnefs, 
and  affection  he  infilled  on  thefe  important  and  inte- 
refting  fubjedts,  fome  yet  alive  remember ;  as  alfo 
the  extraordinary  weight  which  thefe  his  inftrucFions 
received  from  his  own  very  regular  and  pious  exam¬ 
ple.  He  was  indeed  a  pattern  to  the  flock,  in  word, 

in  converfation,  in  charity,  in  fpirit,  in  faith,  in  pu¬ 
rity. 


REV.  BERNARD  FOSKETT. 


427 


rity.  Nor  was  he  without  the  pleafure  of  feeing  his 
labours  crowned  with  great  and  happy  fuccefs ;  of 
which  the  very  flourifhing  (fate  of  his  community,  at 
the  time  of  his  death,  will  be  confidered  a  fufficient 
evidence. 

“  To  all  which  I  may  add,  that  in  the  office  of  a 
tutor  he  failed  not  to  purfue  the  fame  ends,  which  ani¬ 
mated  his  profeffion  as  a  Chriftian,  and  his  public  la¬ 
bours  as  a  Minifter.  He  was  always  ftudious  to  pro¬ 
mote  the  real  advantage  of  thofe  under  his  care,  en¬ 
deavouring  to  lead  their  minds  into  a  general  know¬ 
ledge  of  the  moft  beneficial  and  important  branches  of 
literature.  And  though  he  judged  a  fuperficial  edu¬ 
cation  beft  fuited  to  the  years  and  capacities  of  fome ; 
yet  he  encouraged  and  affifted  others  in  the  purfuit  of  a 
more  finifhed  one,  conforming  himfelf  in  the  whole  to 
the  profeffed  defign  of  the  founder  of  this  inftitution. 

“  In  the  regular  and  unwearied  difcharge  of  all  thefe 
feveral  duties  of  his  profeffion  he  fpent  near  forty 
years ;  during  which  time  he  fuffered  little  or  no  inter¬ 
ruption  in  his  work  from  the  diforders  incident  to  hu¬ 
man  nature.  But  at  length,  by  a  paralytic  feizure, 
he  received  the  notice  of  his  approaching  difiolution. 
In  thefe  circumftances  he  continued  near  a  fortnight, 
ftill  enjoying  the  perfeft:  and  undifturbed  ufe  of  his 
reafoning  powers,  and  ftill  difcovering  the  fame  fe- 
rene,  pious,  and  heavenly  fpirit  which  ran  through 
his  whole  life.  Within  a  day  or  two  of  his  deceafe, 
he  addreffed  himfell  to  his  dear  friend  and  colleague, 
the  Rev.  Hugh  Evans,  with  a  peculiar  folemnity,  and 
«n  uncommon  pathos,  in  thefe  words  :  “  I  have 

g  g  2  done 


42  8 


REV.  MR.  FOSKETT’s 


done  with  man  and  the  inhabitants  of  the  world,  and 
I  have  nothing  now  to  rely  on,  but  the  merits  of 
my  dear  Redeemer,  who  of  God  is  made,  I 
truft,  unto  me,  wifdom,  righteoufnefs,  fanftification, 
and  redemption  :  this  is  all  my  falvation  and  all  my 
defire  !”  Su flamed  with  thefe  bleffed  hopes  of  the 
everlafting  Gofpel,  he  cheerfully  fubmitted  to  the 
flroke  of  death,  and  quietly  fell  afleep  in  Jefus, 
September  17,  1758,  in  the  74th  year  of  his  age.” 

His  funeral  fermon  was  preached,  but  not  printed, 
by  the  Rev.  Hugh  Evans,  from  1  Cor.  ix.  27.  / 
keep  under  my  body ,  and  bring  it  into  /abjection  3  left 
ihat  by  any  means ,  when  I  have  preached  to  others ,  I  my- 
feif  Jhould  be  a  caji-awaw  Thus  the  courfe  of  one 
holy  apoflolic  man  was  finifhed. 

If  the  lift  of  Mr.  FoiketPs  Undents  now  before  me 
is  complete,  they  were  in  number  fixty-four,  not 
including  a  pupil  of  the  independent  denomination, 
who  afterwards  lived  and  died  a  ufeful  minifter  at 
Maidftone  in  Kent.*  Concerning  the  firft  of  thefe 
fixty-four,  this  memorandum  is  preferved.  “  No¬ 
vember  the  5th,  1720,  Mr.  Thomas  Rogers  was  pro- 
pofed  as  a  ftudent  to  Mr.  Fofkett,  recommended  by 
the  church  in  the  Pithay,  and  the  ten  pounds  left  by 
Mr.  Terrill  was  granted  to  him.”  Mr.  Rogers  was 
from  Pontypooi,  in  Monmouthfhire,  and  foon  came 
to  the  clofe  of  life.  And  as  the  firft  of  Mr.  Fofkett  3 

*  This  was  the  Rev.  Mr.  Herbert  Jenkins,  whole  ion  is 
now  minifter  of  the  Prefbyterian  congregation  at  Banbur\, 
in  Oxon. 

(tuuents* 


SURVIVING  STUDENTS. 


429 


students,  fo  the  laft  of  them  was  from  Wales,  namely 
Mr.  Samuel  George,  who  was  paftor  of  the  church, 
at  Wantage,  Berks,  and  left  an  excellent  character 
behind  him.  It  is  fomewhat  remarkable  that  the  num¬ 
ber  of  the  Englifh  and  of  the  Welfh  ftudents  fhould 
have  been  exactly  the  fame.  For  there  were  thirty- 
two  of  them  Englifhmen,  and  thirty-two  belonging 
to  the  Principality.  But  I  hope  it  will  appear  much 
more  interefting  to  report,  in  the  words  of  our  ever 
dear  Hugh  Evans;  ‘  that  moft  of  thofe  who  were 
under  Mr.  Fofkett’s  care  approved  themfelves  truly 
ferious,  and  with  great  reputation  filled  many  of  our 

churches/'  Here  let  us  paufe - and  moft  heartily 

praife  the  great  Head  of  the  church,  for  his  mercy 
and  grace.  I  am  fure  they  are  willing  to  do  it,  who 
{fill  furvive  of  that  refpedtable  catalogue. 

Bleffed  be  God,  there  are  a  few  of  thefe  good 
men  yet  in  the  wildernefs.  I  know  not  whether 
they  are  more  than  fix  or  feven  ;  but  as  you  will 
conceive  a  favourable  opinion  of  the  reft  from  them 
as  a  fpecimen,  I  with  pleafure  recite  their  names. 

Benjamin  Beddome,  A.  M.  at  Bourton. 

John  Oulton,  A.  M.  at  Rawden,  York. 

Edmund  Watkins,  at  Uik. 

John  Evans,  now  at  Northampton. 

Benjamin  Francis,  A.  M.  at  Horfley. 

Morgan  Jones,  L.  L.  D.  at  Hammerfmith,  and 

John  Evans,  of  Pentre. 

May  the  latter  days  of  thefe  reverend  minifters 
abundantly  increafe. 


Gg  3 


By 


43° 


REV.  BERNARD  FOSKETT. 


By  fuch  difciples  *  we  may,  in  fome  meafure,  form 
a  judgment  of  the  matter.  And  if  it  be  conceded  that 
his  method  of  education  was  limited  rather  than  libe¬ 
ral  ;  fevere  rather  than  enchanting ;  employing  the 
memory  more  than  the  genius,  the  reafoning  more 
than  the  fofter  powers  of  the  mind ;  in  a  word,  if  it  be 
granted  that  Mr.  Fofkett  was  not  the  firft  of  tutors,  it  is 
a  piece  of  juftice  to  his  memory,  and  a  debt  of  honor 
to  the  divine  grace,  mod  cheerfully  to  acknowledge, 
that  fome  good  fcholars,  and  feveral  of  the  greateft 
minifters  who  have  adorned  our  denomination  fince 
the  days  of  the  reformation,  were  educated  by  him. 
Here  I  pafs  the  names  which  have  been  juft  recorded. 
But  were  I  to  fingle  out  from  his  ftudents  a  fcholar,  it 
would  be  proper  to  repeat  what  the  late  Dr.  Gibbons 

faid  to  me  fome  years  fince,  when  feveral  eminent 

* 

linguifts  had  been  mentioned ;  cc  I  think,  my  young 
friend,  that  Dr.  Llewelyn  is  the  firft  fcholar  we 
have  among  the  Proteftant  di^^enters.,,  Were  I  to 
diftinguilh  thofe  who  were  eminent  as  fcholars  and 
preachers  too,  I  fhould  felefl:  not  only  from  the  fhort 
lift  which  adorns  a  preceding  paragraph,  but  pro- 

*  Since  this  difcourfe  was  delivered,  we  have  been  called 
to  mourn  the  death  of  two  of  thefe  worthies — Mr.  Beddome 
and  Mr.  Watkins.  The  biography  of  the  former  may  be  feen 
in  the  regifter  for  January  1796,  No.  12,  p.  314.  And  a  de- 
fign  has  been  conceived  of  publifhing  an  Appendix  to  this 
Eflhy,  in  which  fhall  be  given,  among  feveral  valuable  papers, 
a  fliort  account  of  all  thofe  ftudents  of  the  Briftol  Academy, 
who  have  died  in  the  Lord;  if  materials,  fufficiently  interefting, 
are  fpeedily  communicated. 

duce 


REV.  HUGH  EVANS,  A.  M. 

duce  feveral  others,  and  among  them  I  might  men¬ 
tion, 

Robert  Day,  A.  M.  at  Wellington. 

John  Ash,  L.  L.  D.  at  Perfhore. 

John  Ryland,  A.  M.  at  Northampton. 

But  there  is  one  name  I  cannot  omit — the  name  ot 
the  third  ftudent  in  the  roll  of  the  fixty-four;  I  mean 

that  of  the  immortal 

Hugh  Evans,  A.  M. 

Mr.  Fofkett  finifhed  his  labours  and  entered  on  his 
reft ;  but  inftead  of  the  father  came  up  this  fon,  who 
had  in  general  the  efteem  and  influence  of  a  prince, 
wherever  he  was  known,  in  all  the  earth. 

It  was  the  honor  and  happinefs  of  Mr.  Hugh 
Evans  to  be  descended  from  Welfh  parents,  in  eafy 
circumflances,  illuftrious  for  their  piety  and  benevo¬ 
lence.  His  grandfather,  Mr.  Thomas  Evans,  was 
eminent  in  his  day,  for  gifts  and  grace.  In  the  time 
of  Oliver’s  commonwealth,  he  pafled  his  examina¬ 
tion  before  the  triers  appointed  to  licenfe  minifters, 
and  received  from  them  an  honorable  teftimonial. 
The  original  was  intrufted  to  me,  of  which  the  fol¬ 
lowing  is  a  copy. 

By  the  Commijfion  for  the  Propagation  of  the  Gofpel 
in  Wales . 

WHEREAS  five  of  the  minifters,  in  the  aft  of  par- 
liament  bearing  date  the  25th  of  February  1649, 
and  entitled  an  Aft  for  the  better  Propagation  of  the 
Gofpel  in  Wales ,  have,  according  to  the  tenors  of  the 

G  g  4  faid 


p 


4 32  REV.  HUGH  EVANS,  A.  M, 

laid  add,  approved  of  Mr.  Thomas  Evans  the  younger, 
and  have  recommended  him,  with  their  advice  to  us, 
that  he  be  encouraged  in  the  work  of  the  miniflry: 
we  do,  according  to  an  order  diredled  to  us  by  the  com¬ 
mittee  of  five  at  Neath,  therefore  ORDER,  that 
Mi.  John  Pryce,  trealurer,  fhall  forthwith  pay  unto 
the  laid  Mr.  Thomas  Evans  the  fum  of  thirty  pounds, 
which  we  have  thought  fit  to  allow  him  towards  his 
falary,  and  encouragement  in  the  work  of  the  minif- 
try.  And  this  our  order,  together  with  his  acquittal, 
fhall  be  a  fufficient  difcharge  for  the  faid  treafurer. 

Dated  under  our  hands,  the  16th  of  May,  in 
the  )ear  of  our  Lord,  1653. 

John  Williams,  &c. 

By  thefe  five  gentlemen,  Mr.  Thomas  Evans  was 
appointed  to  preach  in  the  parifh  of  Maefmynys, 
where  he  continued  till  the  reftoration  in  1660,  and 
appears  to  have  been  ufeful,  and  highly  efteemed  by 
thofe  who  knew  him  and  attended  on  his  miniftry. 
But  when  he  was  no  longer  permitted  to  officiate  in 
the  parifh  church,  as  his  confcience  would  not  fuffer 
him  to  comply  with  the  terms  of  conformity  then 
impofed,  it  was  thought  he  formed  a  feparate  church 
of  the  Baptift  denomination;  but  the  Welfh  hiflorian, 
our  venerable  friend,  the  Rev.  Joffiua  Thomas  of 
Leominfter,  who  has  enabled  me  to  correQ:  feveral 
miftakes  which  have  crept  into  the  hiftory  of  this 
family,  informs  me  it  is  correct  to  fay,  “  That  Mr. 
Thomas  Evans  united  himfelf  to  the  Baptifl  fociety, 
which  now  con  flitutes  Dolau  andPentre  churches,  and 
which  were  then  one  church,  under  the  care  of  Mr. 

Henry 


REV.  HUGH  EVANS,  A.  M. 


433 


Henry  Gregory,  who  was  the  paftor  of  it  from  1 660, 
till  about  the  year  1 700.  Mr.  Thomas  Evans  was 
fir  ft  his  affiftant,”  and  then  perhaps  co-paftor  with 
him.  The  church  met  for  divine  worfhip  many 
years  in  his  father’s  houfe.  He  fuffered  much  for 
confcience’  fake,  but  was  carried  honorably  through 
all  his  difficulties,  and  in  1688  died  in  peace. 

Caleb,  the  eldeft  fon  of  Mr.  Thomas  Evans,  a 
man  of  good  abilities,  and  of  a  mod  amiable  difpo- 
fition  and  charafter,  fucceeded  him  in  the  paftoral 
office,  and  continued  in  the  faithful  difcharge  of  the 
duties  of  it,  till  removed  by  death,  in  the  year  1 7  3 9* 
Our  Rev.  Hugh  Evans  was  the  youngeft  fon  of  this 
Caleb,  by  his  firft  marriage  with  Mrs.  Hannah  Lewis, 
from  Herefordffiire,  of  whofe  piety  and  other  perfonal 
excellencies,  it  is  fcarcely  poffible  to  fay  too  much. 
Mr.  Thomas  informs  me,  that  {he  was  of  a  reputable 
family,  in  the  Valley  of  Olchon,  who  were  diftin- 
guiffied  in  the  Principality  for  ffieltering  the  Baptifts 
in  perfecuting  times.  As  our  dear  preceptor  de¬ 
fended  from  fuch  parents,  it  may  reafonably  be  in¬ 
ferred  that  he  was  a  child  of  many  prayers.  In  early 
life  he  was  placed  under  the  tuition  of  the  Rev.  Mr. 
Pryce,  a  worthy  diffenting  mini  her,  who  at  that 
time  kept  a  boarding  fchool  of  high  reputation,  near 
Talgarth,  in  the  county  of  Brecon,  and  was  eminent 
in  his  day,  as  a  found  claffical  fcholar.  Here  Mr. 
Hugh  Evans  was  thoroughly  grounded  in  the  know¬ 
ledge  of  the  learned  languages,  and  at  the  fame  time 
had  the  diftinguiffied  happinefs  of  being  brought 

effectually 


1 


434 


REV.  HUGH  EVANS,  A.  M. 


effectually  acquainted  with  Chrift  and  his  own  heart. 
Several  things  concurred,  under  the  divine  influence, 
towards  his  converfion :  the  recollection  when  he 
was  at  fchool  of  the  prayers,  and  counfels  of  his 
father,  before  he  left  home :  the  converfation  of  a 
godly  family  of  his  father's  acquaintance :  and  the 
preaching  of  that  eminent  fervant  of  God,  old  Mr. 
Enoch  Francis, — made  fuch  imprellions  on  his  mind 
as  were  never  obliterated.  Soon  after  having  come 
to  this  city  to  vifit  a  near  relation,  and  to  receive 
advice  for  a  complaint  in  his  foot,  he  purfued  his 
learning  under  the  direction  of  Mr.  Fofkett,  by 
whom  he  was  baptized,  Auguft  7,  17  30. 

By  letters,  which  have  come  to  light  fince  the 
death  of  Dr.  Evans,  we  learn,  that  foon  after  Mr. 
Hugh  Evans  was  baptized,  he  went  into  Wales,  for 
the  fake  of  his  health,  and  to  fee  his  father,  to  whom 
Mr.  Fofkett  wrote,  advifing  him  and  his  friends  to 
try  the  young  man's  minifterial  gifts  while  at  home  ; 
for  at  Briftol,  he  laid,  they  could  not  prevail  on  him 

to  exercife,  fuch  was  his  extreme  modefty  and  diffi- 

% 

dence. 

In  thefe  early  traits  of  character,  the  church  at 
Broadmead  muft  have  perceived  a  golden  flieaf  which 
prefaged  a  glittering  harveft.  Accordingly  they 
called  him  to  the  work  of  the  miniftry  on  the  17th 
of  Auguft  1733,  and,  in  the  December  following, 
gave  him  an  invitation  to  become  an  affiftant  to  their 
worthy  paftor,  which  he  accepted,  notwithftanding 
much  fairer  profpeCts,  as  to  this  world,  opened  be¬ 
fore 


REV.  HUGH  EVANS,  A.  M. 


43  S 


fore  him  from  two  churches  in  the  metropolis.  And 
in  1739  he  was  called  to  the  ftationof  teaching  elder. 
The  higher  he  rofe  in  office,  the  brighter  he  (hone  as 
one  of  the  ambaffadors  of  the  churches  who  are  the 
glory  of  Chrift.  The  biographical  account  of  him  in 
his  funeral  fermon,  though  it  be  the  eulogy  of  a 

fon,  is  temperate  and  juft. 

Every  one  who  knew  him  muft  admit  that  his 
gift  in  prayer  was  uncommon,  his  ftudents  thought 
it  was  unequalled.  In  the  family,  at  occafional 
meetings,  in  the  fervices  of  the  Lord’s  day,  and  upon 
extraordinary  occafions,  w7ith  copioufnefs,  dignity, 
and  warmth  of  devotion,  he  poured  out  his  foul  unto 
God ;  and  yet  with  fuch  variety,  that  he  was  feldom, 
if  ever,  heard  to  pray  twice  alike. 

His  pulpit  compofitions  were  clear,  nervous  and 
pathetic.  Few  men  were  more  capable  of  taking  a 
large,  comprehenfive,  mafterly  view  of  a  fubjefl: ;  or 
of  reprefenting  it  with  greater  perfpicuity,  energy, 
and  fervor.  His  language  was  ftriking,  his  voice 
clear,  and  his  elocution  manly.  Nor  did  any  preacher, 
perhaps,  ever  know  better  than  he,  efpecially  at  fome 
happy  feafons,  what  it  was  to  reign  over  his  audience, 
enlightening  their  underftanding,  convincing  their 
judgment,  and  then  kindling  all  their  nobleft  paffions 
into  a  blaze  of  devotion. 

After  he  had  many  years  habituated  himfelf  to 
ftudy,  his  forte  as  a  minifter  was  an  extemporaneous 
illuftration  of  the  facred  fcriptures.  This  was  evinced 
by  the  weekly  conferences  ;  and  we  are  able  to  affert 

that 


REV.  HUGH  EVAN?,  A.  M* 


436 

that  many  of  his  fermons,  which  his  people  deem- 
ed  the  belt  and  moft  ufeful,  exactly  anfwered  to 
tiiis  defcription.  His  minifterial  labours  were  far  ex¬ 
tended  all  around.  He  had  the  care  of  numerous 
churches  refting  upon  him  ;  and  many  were  the  long 
journies  he  took  to  aflift  at  ordinations,  and  at  the 
annual  affbciations,  in  England  and  Wales. 

As  a  tutor  he  was  not  inferior  to  either  of  his  pre- 
deceffors.  He  poffeffed  the  affiduity  without  the  fe- 
verity  of  his  immediate  predecefibr,  and  led  his  dif- 
ciples  into  the  fields  of  fcience  by  a  method,  in  which 
hourly  acquifitions  brought  new  pleafures,  and  enabled 
us  to  purfue  thought  from  thought,  with  tranquillity 
and  delight.  Every  one  who  fat  at  his  feet  recog- 
nifed  in  him  a  friend  and  a  father.  He  fo  took  us 
under  his  care  as  to  infpire  affection  to  him  as  our 
friend ,  and  we  never  left  his  wing,  till  affe&ion  having 
grown  to  reverence  conftrained  the  filial  heart  to  fay, 
This  is  my  father. 

O  what  condefcenfion,  what  tendernefs  have  we 
feen  in  him !  What  folicitude  for  our  ufefulnefs  and  fe¬ 
licity  has  he  difeovered  !  With  an  appropriate  facility 
he  planted  many  a  fhrub  in  the  very  foil  which  reafon 
and  grace  had  adapted  to  its  growth,  and  foon  as  its 
fruit  appeared,  how  did  he  rejoice  !  When  we  no 
lenger  enjoyed  the  bofom  of  our  Alma  Mater,  nor 
refled  under  his  (hade,  he  interefted  himfelf  in  our 
hi  (lory  :  his  fympathy  leffened  our  forrows,  and  his 
participation  with  us  increafed  our  joys.  What  man, 
fince  the  apofiolic  days,  could  have  faid  with  more 

fincerity 


REV.  HUGH  EVANS,  A.  M. 


437 


fincerity  and  accent,  I  have  no  greater  joy  than  to  hear 
that  my  children  zvalk  in  truth  ?  Well  therefore  it  was 
faid,  in  his  funeral  fermon,  that  it  gave  him  “  inex- 
prefliblepleafure  to  fee  fo  many  who  had  been  under 
his  tuition  fulfil  his  expectations  concerning  them.” 
And  that,  not  long  before  his  death,  he  fpoke  with 
tears  of  joy  to  this  effect ;  “  I  am  happy  to  fee  thefe 
young  men  rifing  up,  I  hope,  for  great  and  eminent 
ufefulnefs  in  the  Church  of  God,  when  I  and  many 
others  fhall  be  here  no  more  !” 

But  over  the  annals  of  this  peculiarly  eminent  fer- 
vant  of  the  Lord,  we  exclaim.  The  Fathers  where  are 
they  ?  and  the  Prophets  do  they  live  for  ever  l  Through 
intenfe  application  the  machine  of  mortality  began  to 
wear  out,  and  the  vigour  of  this  holy  ufeful  man  de¬ 
cayed.  But  before  his  diffolution  our  churches  had 
the  pleafure  of  feeing  him  attend  the  affociation  at 
Fro  me.  Here  he  took  a  folemn  leave  of  his  con¬ 
nexions  in  an  affecting  difcourfe  from  thofe  alarming 
words  ;  Be  not  deceived ,  God  is  not  mocked .  And  foon 
after  his  return  to  Briftol,  he  clofed  his  public  mi- 
niftry,  with  a  truly  paternal  addrefs  from  Gal.  iv.  19. 
My  little  children ,  of  whom  I  travail  in  birth  again 
until  Chrif  be  formed  in  you. 

During  his  declining  (fate,  it  is  fcarcely  poffible  to 

4 

defcribe  his  placid  refignation  to  the  divine  will,  his 
meeknefs  and  his  affection  to  all  around  him.  Every 
paffion  feemed  to  be  extinguifhed  but  love.  With 
that  he  overflowed  to  his  family,  the  church,  and  all 
his  connexions.  When  fpeaking  of  the  profperous 

ftate 


« 


REV.  HUGH  EVANS.  A.  M. 


43s 

flate  of  Broadmead  and  the  academy,  he  once  faid, 
that  he  thought  he  might  adopt  the  words  of  good  old 
Simeon,  Loi  dy  now  lettejl  thou  thy  fervant  depart  in 
peace  y  for  mine  eyes  have  feen  thy  falvation •  He  fre¬ 
quently  faid,  my  flefh  and  my  heart  failethy  but  God  is 
the  ftrength  of  my  heart  and  my  portion  for  ever . 

A  ftudent,  who  was  with  him  in  the  two  laft  nights 
of  his  life,  informs  me,  that  for  twenty-four  hours 
before  he  departed  he  lay  totally  infenfible.  About 
midnight  he  began  vifibly  to  alter,  and  appeared  to 
ftruggle  with  the  laft  enemy.  His  dear  fon  Caleb 
was  fent  for,  who  came  juft  in  time  to  witnefs  the 
clofing  fcene.  Several  of  the  ftudents  were  in  the 
room,  and  his  three  fons  and  two  youngeft  daughters 
furrounded  the  bed  while  he  breathed  out  his  laft.— 
The  fcene  was  unfpeakingly  ftriking  and  folemn. — 
There  lay,  in  the  arms  of  death — the  great  Hugh 
Evans. 

Soon  after  he  expired,  his  fon,  the  Doctor,  who  had 
been  kneeling  by  the  bed  fide  for  fome  time,  and  ap¬ 
peared  to  have  been  pouring  out  his  whole  foul  unto 
the  Lord,  rofe  from  his  knees,  lifted  up  his  hands  to 
heaven,  and  in  all  the  tendernefs  of  filial  grief  laid, 
Blefted  are  the  dead  which  die  in  the  Lord ;  he  wept 
bitterly,  but  then  added,  for  they  reft  from  their  la - 
hours ,  and  their  works  follow  them  :  And  indeed  all 
who  were  prefent  wept  aloud,  for  feveral  minutes. 

The  evening  before  the  interment,  the  corpfe  was 
taken  to  the  meeting  houfe  :  The  fervice  was  to  be¬ 
gin  the  next  day  at  two  o’clock,  but  the  houfe  was 

full 


REV.  CALEB  EVANS,  D.  D. 


439 


full  before  one.  A  fuitable  and  truly  melting  dif- 
courfe  was  preached  by  an  excellent  brother,  now 
affembled  with  us*;  after  which  the  funeral  procef- 
fion,  covering  half  a  mile  in  length,  attended  the  body 
from  the  meeting  houfe  to  theBaptift  burying  ground, 
where  the  venerable  Mr.  John  Tommas  delivered  a 
pathetic  addrefs  on  the  occafion.  This  was  a  folemn 
hour,  and  the  countenance  of  unnumbered  fpefta- 
tors  faid — We  have  loft  a  friend. 

This  ftroke  was  felt  throughout  the  kingdom. — 
Our  parlours,  our  pulpits,  and  our  aflfemblies  in  ge¬ 
neral,  not  without  many  a  trickling  tear,  fighed. 
How  are  the  mighty  fallen  !  But  affecting  as  was  this 
difpenfation,  by  which  the  church  and  the  world 
fuftained  a  lofs  ;  one  thing  confoled  us — inftead  of  this 
father  came  up  his  Son,  the  Rev.  Dr.  Caleb  Evans, 
enrolled  with  the  worthies,  whom  our  afcended  Lord 
himfelf  was  to  make  Princes  in  all  the  earth . 

The  firft  accounts  that  we  have  been  able  to  obtain 
of  our  late  Prefident,  furnifh  us  with  a  genius  in 
embryo.  He  was,  blefled  be  God  !  in  early  life, 
called  out  of  darknefs  into  marvellous  light.  From 
his  own  pen,  we  colledl,  that  when  he  was  only  a 
youth,  he  beheld  with  admiration  his  father  in  the 
pulpit,  and  was  delighted  with  the  heavenly  founds 
which  flowed  from  his  lips.  Hearing  the  awful  terrors 

*  The  Rev.  Mr.  Benjamin  Francis.  This  fermon  was  not 
printed,  as  Dr.  Evans  was  preparing  one  for  publication  which 
fpeedily  appeared,  and  to  which  this  eBay  is  confiderably  in¬ 
debted. 


of 


440 


REV.  CALEB  EVANS,  D.  D, 


of  the  law,  and  the  aftonilhing  grace  of  the  Gofpel* 
he  was  brought  into  the  very  duff,  before  the  throne 
of  an  holy  God,  and  enabled  to  magnify  the  riches 
of  free  grace  in  his  falvation.  Under  the  parental 
care  and  inftru&ion  of  his  father,  he  received  his 
grammar  learning,  and  ranked  with  other  ftudents 
under  Mr,  Fofkett,  about  the  year  1753.  On  his 
removal  to  London,  he  was  baptized  by  Dr.  Samuel 
Stennett,  and  became  a  member  of  the  church  in 
Little  Wild-ftreet.  And  having  gone  through  the 
ufual  courfe  of  ftudies  in  the  diflenting  academy  then 
at  Mile-end,  now  at  Homerton,  while  Dr.  Walker, 
Dr.  Conder,  and  Dr.  Gibbons  were  the  tutors,  he 
was  called  to  the  work  of  the  miniftry  by  the  church 
to  which  he  belonged  \  and  then  for  two  years,  as 
he  himfelf  informed  me,  aflifted  the  Rev.  Jofiah 
Thompfon,  at  that  time  pallor  of  the  Baptift  church 
in  Unicorn-yard,  Southwark  ;  and  the  Rev.  Dr, 
Furneaux,  at  Clapham. 

At  the  expiration  of  this  time,  in  1759,  he  re¬ 
ceived  an  invitation  to  become  his  father's  affiftant, 
and  began  his  public  career  in  Broadmead,  with  a  dif~ 
courfe  from  thefe  words ;  I  determined  not  to  know  any 
thing  among  you ,  fave  Jefus  Chrijl ,  and  him  crucified .— 

This  determination  he  held  faft.  It  gave  vigour  to 

■* 

his  miniftry  through  the  varying  fcenes  of  life,  and  at 
laft  it  placed  for  him  the  lamp  of  hope  in  the  valley 
of  the  fhadow  of  death.  Having  preached  at  Briftol 
about  eight  years,  he  was  ordained,  and  became  his 
father’s  colleague.  The  congregation  and  the  church, 

already 


THE  BRISTOL  EDUCATION  SOCIETY.  44 1 

already  large  and  reputable,  felt  his  influence*  His 
piety,  adorned  with  an  animated  eloquence,  gave  a 
zeft  to  his  prayers  and  his  fermons.  His  connexions 
in  town  and  country  were  numerous  and  refpedtable. 
Where  he  was  known  and  heard,  he  was  admired  and 
loved.  And  now,  when  the  influence  of  his  father  was 
apoftolic,  the  popularity  of  the  fon  proverbial,  and 
every  thing  in  the  Church  and  Academy  was  ap¬ 
proximating  to  perfeftion — in  the  full  affluence  of 
fame,  he  feized  the  golden  opportunity ;  and  in  addi¬ 
tion  to  all  the  other  efforts  of  an  expanfive  benevo¬ 
lence,  his  liberal  heart  devifed  another  liberal  fcheme. 

Having  furveyed  with  pleafure  the  inftitution  of 
Terrill,  the  affiduity  of  Fofkett,  and  the  improved 
method  of  education  adopted  by  his  father — -with  a 
difmterefted  zeal  for  the  glory  of  God,  and  the  wel¬ 
fare  of  men,  he  faid  of  the  academy  according  to  the 
language  of  facred  fong,  If  fhe  be  a  door ,  we  will inclofe 
her  with  boards  of  cedar  if  jhe  be  a  wall ,  the  founda¬ 
tion  is  laid,  and  the  fabric  for  years  has  been  going 
up,  we  will  build  upon  her  a  palace  of  fiver .  Cant.  viii.  9. 

He  devifed— he  planned — he  executed.  It  was 
a  ftructure  of  faith,  founded  in  hope,  on  the  bafis  of 
charity ;  to  which  be,  its  father ,  gave  the  name  of 
The  Bristol  Education  Society— a  fociety  of 
Christian  Philanthropists,  before  whom  I  ap¬ 
pear  with  a  refpect  bordering  on  reverence. 

d his  fociety  was  formed  in  1770,  in  aid  of  the 
Baptift  Academy  in  Brifto),  with  the  defign,  “  That 
diflenting  congregations,  efpecially  of  the  Baptift  de- 
Dec.  1796.  h  h  nomination. 


442  DECEASED  PATRONS  OF  THE  SOCIETY. 

nomination,  in  any  part  of  the  Britifh  dominions* 
may,  if  it  pleafe  God,  be  more  effectually  fupplied 
with  a  fucceffion  of  able  and  evangelical  miniftersj 
and  that  miffionaries  may  be  fent  to  thofe  places 
where  there  is  an  opening  for  the  gofpel.” 

Some  of  us  who  had  the  honor  of  fitting  at  Dr. 
Evans’s  feet,  before  and  after  the  emiffionof  his  fcheme, 
well  remember  his  anxious  folicitude  concerning  it,  and 
the  unremitted  exertions  he  made,  in  town  and  coun¬ 
try,  to  realize  his  plan.  And,  bleffed  be  God,  his 
efforts  were  not  fruitlefs.  So  far  from  it,  that  we 
have  reafon  to  believe,  indulgent  Heaven  and  a  fm.il- 
ing  public  exceeded,  by  far  exceeded,  his  firft  ex¬ 
pectations.  Under  his  foftering  hand  the  mo  ft  bene¬ 
volent  men  in  all  our  connexions  enrolled  themfelves 
as  fubfcribers  to  the  inftitution  j  and  names,  which 
add  a  luftre  to  any  catalogue,  became  its  patrons  and 
benefactors.  Among  them  I  perceive  the  Chief  Ma- 
giftrates  of  the  cities  of  London  and  Briftol,  and  other 
illuftrious  names,  over  fome  of  whom,  <c  now  to  the 
duft  gone  down/’  we  drop  the  tributary  tear.  Out 
of  thefe  departed  worthies,  it  will  be  a  gratification 
to  mention, 

1 

The  Right  Hon*  Frederick  Bull,  Lord  Mayor  of 
London.  . 

Tho  mas  Llewelyn,  LL.  D. 

Rev.  Andrew  Gifford,  D.  D* 

Joseph  Tomkins,  Efq. 

John  Bull,  Efq. 

Francis  Bull,  Efq. 


William 


REV.  JAMES  NEWTON,  A.  M • 


443 


William  Steele,  Efq, 

Dr.  Joseph  Mason. 

Dr.  Thomas  Bunn. 

Robert  Houlton,  Efq.  and  his  nephew, 

John  Houlton,  Efq.  Admiral  of  the  Blue. 

To  thefe  many  other  characters  might  be  added  j 
but  I  difmifs  them,  expecting  that  the  next  age  will 
gratefully  embalm  their  memories  in  fucceffive  anni- 
verfaries,  while  all  the  churches  will  give  glory  to 
God  on  your  account. 

As  the  affairs  of  the  Academy  were  now  to  be  con¬ 
ducted  on  a  larger  fcale,  and  a  greater  number  of 
fludents  to  be  educated,  the  Rev.  James  Newton, 
A.  M.  affiftant  preacher  of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Tommas, 
at  the  Pithay,  was  refpeCtfully  invited  to  take  a  fliare 
in  the  education.  The  province  of  claffical  tutor  was 
affigned  him — a  department  for  which  he  was  ad¬ 
mirably  fitted.  With  the  Latin  and  Greek  daffies, 
with  the  Chriftian  Hebrew  feriptures,  the  Mifnah, 
Talmuds,  and  other  Jewifh  writings,  he  was  intimately 
acquainted.  Some  of  us  now  affembled,  who  in  our 
later  years  at  the  academy  were  under  his  care,  per¬ 
fectly  recoiled  with  what  humility,  prudence  and 
affedion,  he  entered  on  his  office  among  us,  and  with 
what  patience  and  affiduity  he  fuftained  it.  But 
though  he  is  no  more,  Newton  will  long  be  a  fra¬ 
grant  name  in  this  connexion.  I  am  extremely 
forry  at  being  under  the  neceffity  of  referring  the 
audience  for  a  full  account  of  him,  to  the  funeral 
fermon  on  his  death,  in  which,  however,  it  will  be 

h  h  2  found 


444  THE  REV.  CALEB  EVANS,  D.  DX 

found  that  juffice  is  done  to  his  memory  *,  by  Dr* 
Evans. 

How  well  the  Doctor  was  fitted,  firft  to  affift  the 
great  Hugh  Evans,  and  then  to  prefide  over  the 
growing  inftitution,  it  is  unneceffary  to  fay,  for  there 
can  be  but  one  opinion  on  this  head. 

As  he  had  known  the  fcriptures  from  his  youth, 
been  called  by  divine  grace  in  early  life,  addi&ed  him- 
felf  to  the  miniftry,  improved  his  mind  by  extenfive 
reading,  and  had  enjoyed  a  truly  liberal  education  \ 
he  was  prepared  not  only  to  rife,  but  to  fhine  like 
the  Sun — an  univerfal  bleffing.  How  often  have  we 
been  illuminated  and  warmed  by  his  genial  rays  1  Who 
can  read  his  addrefs  to  his  (Indents,  drawn  up  in 
177 and  then  delivered,  firft  of  all,  to  fome  of  us 
who  are  this  day  affociated  ; — who  can  read  it,  and 
not  perceive  that  the  welfare  of  every  one  of  his  pupils 
lay  very  near  his  heart !  O,  how  often  has  he  in 
prayer,  and  in  advice,  melted  over  us !  We  all  of  us 
felt  a  fincere  affection  for  him,  and  in  fome  of  us 
it  feemed  to  be  a  mixture  of  the  filial  and  fraternal. 
Similar  emotions  alfo  of  mind  were  infpired  by  his 
conduct  in  the  circles  of  his  friends,  in  which  he 
charmed  by  his  piety,  affability,  and  good  fenfe. 

Our  Baptift  College  in  America  was  proud  to 
confer  on  him  her  higheft  honors,  in  which  fhe  was 
followed  by  the  Principal  and  Profeffors  of  the  King’s 
College,  Aberdeen,  in  the  year  1789.  But  though 
courted  by  fome,  careffed  by  others,  and  valued  by 

*  Mr.  Newton’s  Biography  is  given  in  the  RegiRer,  No.  II. 
page  150. 

all 


THE  REV.  CALEB  EVANS,  D.  D. 


445 


all  of  his  connexions,  his  native  excellencies,  as  a 
renewed  man  and  Chriftian  minifter,  never  forfook 
him.  He  had  been  defcended  from  a  race  of  apof- 
tolic  men,  and  his  charafier  reflefted  Inftre  on  his 
anceftors.  Great  without  arrogance,  he  maintained 
the  dignity  of  his  rank,  nor  ever  gave  any  one  reafon 
to  repine  at  his  fuccefs.  He  never  profeffed  himfelf 
to  be  a  profound  metaphyfician,  or  the  pofleffor,  in  a 
fuperior  degree  to  all  his  brethren,  of  a  talent  for 
generalifmg  his  ideas  ;  yet  his  mind  was  enriched 
with  numerous  combinations  of  thought,  with  a  tafte 
cultivated  and  pure,  and  a  memory  eminently  accu¬ 
rate.  Warm  and  occafionally  rapid  in  his  manner, 

•  he  fometimes  fucceeded  more  through  a  kind  of  na¬ 
tural  felicity  than  previous  ftudy.  With  a  plenitude 
and  vigor  of  expreffion,  the  legitimate  offspring  of 
genius,  his  eloquence  was  neither  difgraced  by  falfe 
and  meretricious  ornaments,  nor  degraded  by  dul- 
nefs  and  infipidity.  His  flowing  periods,  and  the 
harmonious  cadence  of  his  voice  fitted  him,  in  no 
common  degree,  for  public  fpeaking.  Whether  he 
read  his  fermons,  or  delivered  them  impromptu,* 
they  were  as  diftinguifhable  for  their  eafy  elegance, 
and  evangelical  favor,  as  his  prayers  were  for  a  ra¬ 
tional,  manly,  and  affectionate  devotion.  His  audi¬ 
ence,  neither  attra&ed  by  fafliion,  won  by  the  fplen- 

*  It  was  his  general  practice  to  preach  the  forenoon  fer- 
mon  entirely  without  notes;  and  to  read  almoft  every  fentence 
of  his  difcourfe  when  it  was  his  turn  to  preach  in  the  after¬ 
noon  fervice,  or  at  the  evening  lecture. 

h  h  3 


dor 


446 


/ 


THE  REV.  CALEB  EVANS)  D*  D. 

dor  of  eflablifhments,  nor  the  infpiration  of  mufic^ 
always  numerous,  always  increafing,  and  often 
highly  devotional ;  demonftrated  that  he  was  a  work¬ 
man  who  needed  not  to  be  ajhamed  rightly  dividing  the 
word  of  truth . 

He  was  clofely  attached  to  the  fyflem  of  theology/ 
which  we  call  Calvinifm;  yet  candid  in  judging  of 
the  characters  and  fpeculations  of  others.  His  zeal, 
though  warm,  never  degenerated  into  rancor  and 
bitternefs,  in  proof  of  which  his  numerous  publica¬ 
tions  may  be  produced ;  yet  his  temper  was  not 
formed  for  approving  virtue  with  coolnefs,  nor  for 
cenfuring  vice  with  apathy.  Open,  honeft,  gene¬ 
rous,  his  morals  were  pure  without  morofenefs,  his 
piety  fincere  without  gloominefs  or  oflentation.  No 
good  man  ever  held  free  intercourfe  with  him  with¬ 
out  warm  approbation,  nor  was  deprived  of  it  without 
regret.  In  a  word,  thofe  who  knew  Dr.  Evans,  and 
were  capable  of  eflimating  his  character,  all  agree, 
that  his  talents  were  highly  refpedtable,  and  his  vir¬ 
tues  rare,  folid,  and  exalted. 

For  feveral  months  before  his  illnefs,  to  ufe  the 
words  of  a  miniftring  brother  now  prefent,  It  appeared 
evidently,  to  thofe  who  converfed  with  him,  that  he 
was  ripening  fail  for  eternal  bleffednefs.  His  mind 
was  in  general  much  taken  up  with  the  employ  of 
heaven.  In  humble  abafement  of  fpirit  did  he  often 
fpeak  of  himfelf,  as  a  fallen  depraved  creature ;  but, 
when  he  contemplated  his  privileges  as  a  redeemed, 
regenerated  fmner,  his  joy  was  unutterable.  With 

rapture 


$ 

THE  REV.  CALEB  EVANS,  D.  D.  447 

rapture  he  exclaimed,  0  the  breadth ,  and  lengthy  and 
depth  and  height  of  the  love  of  Chrifl  which  pajfeth 
knowledge!  Behold  what  manner  of  love  the  Father  hath 
befozved  upon  us ,  that  we  fhould  be  called  the  Sons  of 
God ;  and  it  doth  not  yet  appear  what  we  Jh all  be! 

About  a  week  after  his  fir  ft  paralytic  feizure,  he 
faid  to  one  of  his  ftudents  who  now  hears  me,  I 
am  perfectly  refigned  to  the  will  of  God.  And  it 
being  fignified  to  him,  that  at  the  approaching  Affo- 
ciation  at  Wotton,  the  minifters  and  other  brethren 
would  be  much  affefted  by  the  death  of  dear  Mr.  Day, 
of  Wellington,  who  was  appointed  to  preach  the  fer- 
mon,  the  Doftor  wept  aloud,  faying,  cc  I  expefted  to 
have  joined  him  before  this  time  in  the  kingdom  of 
my  father  :  he  is  gone,  and  I  am  languishing  behind  ; 
but  I  know  in  whom  I  have  believed ,  and  /  am  per - 
fuaded  that  he  is  able  to  keep  that  which  I  have  com¬ 
mitted  unto  him  againf  that  day?'  Recovering  him- 
felf,  he  added,  cc  If  I  had  been  able  to  attend  the 
affociation,  and  had  preached,  I  intended  to  have 
improved  thefe  words;  We  have  this  treafure  in 
earthen  veffels.  Ah,  truly,’1  faid  he,  Minifters  are 
brittle,  earthen  veffels ;  but  bleffed  be  God  for  the 
treafure  which  he  puts  into  them.  The  beft  compofed 
fermons  are  nothing  without  the  excellency  of  the 
power  which  is  of  God ,  and  not  of  usF 

In  the  fame  converfation  he  moft  earneftly  recom¬ 
mended  Village  preaching,  giving  a  detail  of  the  rife 
and  progrefs  of  a  favorite  congregation  at  Downend, 
near  Briftol,  where  he  then  was.  And  fpeaking  of 

h  h  4  the 


/ 


44§ 


THE  REV.  CALEB  EVANS,  D.  D, 

the  foundation  of  his  hope,  he  faid,  “  As  for  thofe 
who  deny  the  doctrine  of  the  atonement,  I  cannot 
ted  how  it  may  be  with  them  in  the  near  profpefts 
oi  death;  foi  my  own  part,  I  have  nothing  to 

RESi  Ax  V  SOUL  UPON,  BUT  CHRIST  AND  HIM  CRU¬ 
CIFIED  *.  and  I  am  now  unfpeakably  happy  to  think 
of  my  feeble  effort  in  vindicating  that  glorious  doftrine, 
in  my  four  fermons  on  that  fubjecb”  Thus  happy 

was  the  frame  of  his  mind,  and  he  was  yet  alive _ 

and  while  he  was  living  we  hoped ;  and  prayer  was 
made  xoi  his  life.  We  made  it,  and  thoufands  made 
it  to  God  continually  for  him.  Innumerable  were 
the  hearts  which  afcended  to  heaven,  and,  with 

ad  the  pathos  ana  piety  of  a  wreflling  devotion, 
cried 

“  Eternal  God,  command  his  ftay, 

Stretch  the  dear  months  of  his  delay, 

O  !  we  could  with  his  age  were  one  eternal  day.” 

W  ATTsh  Lyrics . 

And  indeed  there  were  moments  when  fome  of  his 
dearefl  friends  entertained  a  flattering  hope  of  his 
recovery.  But  on  the  firft  of  Auguft  1791,  he  had 
a  fecond  attack,  which  alas !  proved  fatal  on  the 
Tuefday  following.  Bleffed  be  God  for  all  the  feli¬ 
city  he  enjoyed  during  his  affliaion,  and  that  during 
tne  iafl  hours  and  moments  of  life,  with  glory  in  his 

cheeks,  he  often  repeated  Dr.  Doddridge’s  animating 
lines; 

And  dying  clafp  thee  in  my  arms, 

I  he  antidote  of  death.” 


Hence 


THE  REV.  CALEB  EVANS,  D.  D.  449 

Hence  thofe  who  were  around  his  bed  declare,  that 
they  never  faw  fo  much  ot  the  power  of  the  Gofpel, 
to  fupport  under  the  pains  of  dying,  as  they  beheld  in 
the  expiring  moments  of  dear,  dear,  Dr.  Evans;  who, 
with  an  eminently  propitious  gale,  had  an  entrance 
miniftered  unto  him  abundantly  into  the  ever  lofting  king¬ 
dom  of  our  Lord  and  Saviour  JeJus  Chrift . 

Thus  terminated  the  exemplary  and  fuccefsful  ca¬ 
reer  of  our  late  beloved  Prefident,  who  departed  this 
life,  Auguft  9,  1791 ,  in  the  54th  year  of  his  age. 
The  Rev.  John  Tommas,  of  Briftol,  delivered  the 
addrefs  at  his  interment  in  the  Baptift  burying  ground, 
in  this  city;  and  Dr.  Stennett,  on  whom  it  naturally 
fell  to  perform  the  fervice,  preached  his  funeral  fer- 
inon  at  Broadmead  Lord’s  day  the  21ft  of  the  lame 
month,  from  Heb.  xiii.  8.  Jefus  Chrift  the  fame  yefter- 
day ,  to-day ,  and  for  ever . 

What  a  yearly  Meeting  of  the  Society  was  that 
on  the  Wednefday  following,  when  the  chairman 
reported— The  death  of  our  Prefident!  Father  of 
Mercies !  God  and  Father  of  our  Lord  Jefus  Chrift! 
hear  a  fingle  requeft,  That  fuch  another  day— if  it  ever 
mull  arrive— may  be  far-- -very  far  diftant!  At  the 
annual  fervice  of  1791  what  paffage  of  fcripture  could 
have  been  more  fuitable  than  2  Chr.  1.  7.  Ajk  what 
I ftoall  give  thee—  the  text  on  which  our  valued  friend 
the  Rev.  Samuel  Dunfcombe  preached  to  the  affem- 
bly !  And  what  R.efolution  of  the  Society  could  have 
been  either  more  juft  or  more  grateful  than  that 
which  expreffed  an  affectionate  concern,  honorably 

to 


450 


THE  REV.  CALEB  EVANS,  D.  D. 


to  tranfmit  the  memory  of  our  invaluable  Prefident, 
as  the  founder  of  the  fociety,  to  late  poflerity  !* 

And  now  when  he  was  entombed,  calculate  our 
hopes.  Ah!  whither  had  they  fled!  Under  former 

*  To  this  refolve  we  are  indebted  for  the  Medallion  of  Dr. 
Evans,  which  is  fixed  in  that  elegant  and  commodious  room 
of  the  Academy  called  Gifford’s  Mufeum.  The  tablet  of 
which  is  thus  infcribed  : 

CALEB  •  EVANS  •  D  •  D  • 

SOCIETATIS  •  BRISTOLIENSIS 
PARENS •  ET  *  AVCTOR 

NEC  •  NON  •  HVJVS  •  GYMNASII  •  DIV  •  PRASES 


VIRTVTIS  •  JEXIMIM  •  SVy£ 

RERVMQVE  -  ACADEMICARVM  •  FELICITER  *  AB  •  EO  •  GESTAE 

MEMORES 

FAVTORES  t  POSVERE 
OB.  IX  AVG.  M.DCC.XCI.  JET.  LIV. 

Over  the  door  of  the  Mufeum,  juft  within  as  you  enter,  isalfo 
a  Buff  of  the  Rev.  Dr.  Gifford,  who  caufed  this  part  of  the 
edifice  to  be  eredfed,  and  enriched  it  with  his  valuable  librarv. 
paintings,  medals,  and  other  curiofities — with  this  infcription; 

D’O-M’P-F-S’ 

IN  VSVM  JVVENTVT. 

GYMNASIOLI 
HVJVSMODI  BAPTIST.  I. 

MVNIFICENTIA  EDV.  TERRILL 
OLIM  INSTITVTI 
MVSEVM  HOC  D.  D.  D. 

A.  GIFFORD.  D.  D. 

AET.  LXXX.  AVG.  XXVIII, 

MDCCLXXX. 

HVG.  ET  CALEB  EVANS,  A.  M.  ET  JAC.  NEWTON.  GYMNASIARCHIS. 

bereaving 


THE  REV.  JOHN  RYLAND,  D.  D.  4S1 

bereaving  difpenfations  in  the  church,  and  in  the  fe- 
minary,  we  comforted  ourfelves  with  this  prophetic 
motto,  Inf  end  of  thy  fathers  Jhall  be  thy  children.  And 
indeed  our  hope  then  reached  its  objeft,  and  attained 
fruition.  But  now  the  fathers  were  gone — gone  the 
way  of  all  the  earth,  and  the  children  alfo.  In  this 
diftrefs  we  looked  far  and  near — and  looked  in  vain. 
Our  heads  were  bound  round  with  weeping  willows, 
and  our  harps  lay  neglefted  on  the  ground :  but 

“  Wonders  of  Grace  to  God  belong:” 

His  own  arm  brought  falvation.  The  motto  of  our 
effay  received  a  new  illuftration.  Jehovah  fingled 
out  a  man  from  all  the  tribes,  whofe  parent,  the 
great  John  Ryland,  in  the  year  1744  was  one  of  us. 
Inftead  of  the  father  came  up  the  fon.  But,  to 
fpeak  in  allufion  to  Old  Teflament  accents,  the  young 
man  would  fain  have  hid  himfelf ;  then  the  people 
ran  and  fetched  him,  and  it  was  faid  with  peculiar 
joy  in  Ifrael,  See  ye  him  whom  the  Lord  hath 
chosen  ! 

The  dawn  now  fucceeded  the  darknefs.  Since  that 
time  two  annual  days  have  been  fpent  in  prayer,  in 
gratitude,  and  in  hope.  And  (hall  not  this,  the  third, 
be  confecrated  to  the  fame  employ  ?  Blefled  be  God, 
the  God  of  Zion,  that  the  conftituents  of  Broadmead 
Church,  and  the  members  of  the  Briftol  Education 
Society,  join  in  faying,  Our  eyes  behold  our  teachers ; 
and  for  both  of  them  our  hearty  prayers  fhall  afeend 

to 


4S2  ADDRESS  to  the  students. 

io  Goa,  that  they  may  have  body  enough,*  and  foul 
enough,  for  the  arduous  work  to  which  they  are  cal¬ 
led,  ana  find  it  crowned  with  univerfal  fuccefs.  In  thefe 
ludins  I  am  confident  every  heart  is  united;  for  while 
we  embalm  the  memory  of  our  departed  tutors,  with 
the  incenfe  of  praife;  on  the  high  altar  of  devotion 
we  ouer  the  uiCiiiice  of  prayer  for  their  fuccefiors— - 

We  bow  to  thofe  whofe  courfe  is  run, 

And  join  to  hail  each  riling  Sun. 

My  QCar  brethren,  the  pupils  of  the  academy,  can¬ 
not  expert  me  particularly  to  addrefs  them,  in  an 
Iiiftorical  Effay.  But  I  would  remind  them  of  the 
honor  which  I  truft  high  heaven  has  conferred  upon 
them,  in  counting  them  faithful,  and  putting  them 
into  the  miniftry.  I  he  work,  to  which  the  providence 
and  grace  of  God  direfts  your  views,  is  the  moft 
folemn — the  moil  important— the  moft  eventful  to 
yourfelves  and  others  for  ever,  that  can  pofiibly  em¬ 
ploy  any  intelligent  being  on  earth— 

“  ’Tis  what  might  fill  an  Angel's  heart, 

“  And  fill’d  a  Saviour’s  hands,” 

Doddridge. 

O!  that  you  may  be  enabled  fo  to  advance  in  this 
fervice,  with  a  Angle  eye  to  the  divine  honor,  as  not 

*  In  Auguft  1795,  when  the  fubftance  of  this  Eflay  was 
delivered,  the  Rev.  Jofeph  Hughes,  A.  M.  then  Dr.  Ryland’s 
affifiant  in  the  church,  and  in  the  academy,  enjoyed  but  poor 
health.  In  July  1796,  he  removed  to  Batterfea,  near  Lon¬ 
don,  where  it  feems  his  profpe&s  of  ufefulnefs  and  happinefs 
are  flattering. 


to 


I 


ADDRESS  TO  THE  STUDENTS.  453 

to  count  your  lives  dear  to  you,  if  you  may  but  glo¬ 
rify  God,  and  finifh  your  courfe  with  joy. 

But  though  I  prefume  not  to  fuggeft  any  rules  of 
my  framing  for  your  direction,  I  freely  recommend  to 
your  attention,  and  befeech  you,  while  you  remain  in 
this  feminary,  to  read  again  and  again,  one  fhort 
piece  which  I  venture  to  fay  exceeds  all  praife — I 
mean  Dr.  Evans's  addrefs  to  his  fludents  If  this 
is  regarded  by  you,  my  dear  friends,  ferioufly  and 
confcientioufly  regarded,  any  one  without  enjoying  a 
prophetic  afflatus,  may  prognofticate  the  event— 
thofe  of  you  who  are  entering  on  an  academical  edu¬ 
cation,  and  thofe  of  you  who  are  foon  to  finiffl  it,  will 
beautifully  exemplify  the  promife  before  us— you  will 
be,  what  we  pray  God  every  one  of  you  may  be,  holy 
and  happy  yourfelves,  and,  in  addition  to  this  felicity, 
you  will  make  others,  many  others,  holy  and  happy  \ 
and  thus,  in  the  higheft  fenfe,  under  divine  influ¬ 
ence,  without  which  you  can  do  nothing,  you  will 

*It  would  now  be  a  crime  not  to  mention  with  Dr.  Evans’s 
addrefs  to  his  fludents,  a  fmall  companion  admirably  fuited  to 
the  pocket,  which  has  been  publifhed  by  Dr.  Ryland  (without 
his  name)  fince  the  anniverfary  of  1795,  confiding  of  extracts 

from  Mather’s  Manudu&io  ad  Minifterium - Brain erd’s 

Diary — Prefident  Edwards’s  Refolutions — and  Dr.  Owen  on 
Spiritual  Mindednefs.  It  is  entitled  Chrifiiana  Militia?  Via¬ 
ticum  ;  or,  A  Brief  Direflory  for  Evangelical  Minifers.  Price  is. 
or  is.  3d.  according  t0  the  binding.  I  fliould  be  glad  if  every 
Mimfler  of  the  Gofpel  in  England  and  in  America  was  in  pof- 
feffion  of  this  work. 


be 


454 


concluding  address  to  the 


be  princes,  where-ever  the  providence  of  God  may 
direct  you,  in  all  the  earth. 

'  How  can  I  conclude  this  fervice,  though  already 
protracted  to  an  unufual  length,  without  addreffing 
the  Honored  Friends  of  the  Academy  in  general,  and 
of  the  Education  Society  in  particular. 

I  will  not  anticipate  the  pleafures  and  encomiums 
of  polterity,  when  they  {hall  contemplate  the  origin, 
and  review  the  progreffive  ftages  by  which  the  ma¬ 
turity  of  this  feminary  {hall  have  been  accelerated. 
But  it  may  pafs  for  an  affumption  that  the  next  ages 
will  look  back  on  this,  as  we  review  the  part.  At 
that  time  your  names,  my  brethren,  will  be  recounted 
with  a  gratitude,  joy  and  reverence,  like  that  we  feel 
at  the  mention  of  Terrill,  of  Foskett,  of  the 
Evanses,  and  of  Newton. 

But  while  we  recoiled,  with  every  honorable  fen- 
timent,  the  hiltory  of  our  fathers  who  have  lived,  and 
taught,  and  died;  let  us  rejoice  and  with  all  our 
powers  blels  the  Lord,  that  their  fons,  as  heirs  of 
their  talents  and  virtues,  have  arifen  in  their  room. 
The  humble  villages,  the  commercial  towns,  the  po¬ 
pulous  cities,  have  heard  their  voice,  embraced  their 
meffage,  adored  their  mailer,  imbibed  his  fpirit, 
copied  his  example,  and  are  now  many  of  them  be¬ 
yond  all  forrow,  beyond  all  fin,  calling  their  crowns 
at  the  Saviour’s  feet,  and,  in  all  the  variety  of  fong, 
exulting,  worthy  is  the  Lamb  that  was  Jlaiu.  And 
while  this  Academy  may  humbly  boaft  of  her  fons  in 
Europe  and  America,  who  have  {hewn  unto  millions 


PATRONS  OF  THE  BRISTOL  ACADEMY.  455 

the  way  of  falvation  ;  let  us,  this  moment,  anticipate 
the  period,  when  the  Alumni  of  our  inftitution  fhall 
have  made  fruitful,  not  only  wicked,  warring  Europe, 
and  alfo  the  American  States  to  the  utmoft  bounds  of 
the  weftern  world  ;  but  when,  through  their  inftru- 
mentality,  and  that  of  other  good  men  and  Gofpel 
miflionaries,  ali  Afia,  and  Afric’s  fons  fhall  be  con¬ 
