DOCUMENT_ID: robinson-1929-250th
TITLE (as printed): Bristol Baptist College - the 250th Anniversary.
DATE: July 1929
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://biblicalstudies.org.uk/pdf/bq/04-7_292.pdf
EDITION: F. E. Robinson, Baptist Quarterly 4.7 (July 1929): 292-299; PDF supplied by Theology on the Web (biblicalstudies.org.uk)
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (pdftotext -layout extraction from the supplied PDF); NOT re-OCR'd or corrected by this session
TOTAL PAGES: pp. 292-299 as printed (running heads in the text)
WORD COUNT: approx. 3,300 words
OCR QUALITY NOTE: This PDF is a scanned/OCR'd reproduction with a two-column source rendered by pdftotext -layout as a single reading-order stream; scattered character errors are present (e.g. "cilUrch" for "church", "SO1" for "so"). This session did not re-OCR the source.
CLASSIFICATION: Secondary (1929 denominational-history article), used for background and cross-checking; not used for the abridged charter.

This document was supplied for free educational purposes.
Unless it is in the public domain, it may not be sold for profit
or hosted on a webserver without the permission of the
copyright holder.

If you find it of help to you and would like to support the
ministry of Theology on the Web, please consider using the
links below:



                             https://www.buymeacoffee.com/theology




                             https://patreon.com/theologyontheweb



 PayPal                      https://paypal.me/robbradshaw


A table of contents for The Baptist Quarterly can be found here:

      htps://biblicalstudies.org.uk/ar�cles_bq_01.php
F.E. Robinson, "Bristol Baptist College - the 250th Anniversary," Baptist Quarterly 4.7 (July 1929): 292-299.




                                                                                                                  Bristol Baptist College-the 250th
                                                                                                                             Anniversary.
                                                                                                                N      ONCONFORMITY rests upon personal conviction, not
                                                                                                                          upon inherited tradition. Therefore an educated ministry
                                                                                                                is ,a necessity."                       .                    .
                                                                                                                      When the Universities were closed to Nonconformists by
                                                                                                                 the ejection of ministers in 1662, the difficulty of supplying
                                                                                                                 instructed ministers was soon felt; and the need became greater
                                                                                                                 year by year as the older generation passed away. To supply
                                                                                                                 ~his want, the way readiest to hand was to place young men
                                                                                                                 with able ministers who could direct their studies and prepare
                                                                                                                 them for pastoral work Many of those ejected employed them-
                                                                                                                 selves in teaching, so that their help was readily available. This
                                                                                                                 plan was followed both by Congregationalists and Baptists, but
                                                                                                                 it soon became_ clear that a more complete and permanent system
                                                                                                                .was needed.
                                                                                                                     ,As early as 1675, the London Baptist Ministers called Cl!
                                                                                                                 meeting to devise a plan for "providing an orderly standing
                                                                                                                 ~stry, which might give themselves to reading and study,
                                                                                                                 and so become able ministers of the New Testament." The
                                                                                                                 result of this meeting we do not know. Apparently nothing
                                                                                                                 effective was done. The churches were poor and harassed by
                                                                                                                 oppressive laws. Their meetings were liable to be broken up
                                                                                                                 by the civil authorities. Their leaders were often imprisoned,
                                                                                                                 and some ministers even died in prison, as Mr. Hardcastle of
                                                                                                                 Broadmead, Bristol. Baptist,. Independent and Presbyterian
                                                                                                                 Churches were struggling for their very existence. Concerted
                                                                                                                 action for any purpose was difficult; but, as has often happened,
                                                                                                                 the enterprise of an individual outran the caution of a
                                                                                                                  representative assembly. Only four years after the London
                                                                                                                  Meeting, Edward Terrill made a will, leaving' his property to.
                                                                                                                  the minister of Broadmead on condition that he should devote
                                                                                                                  three half-days a week to the instruction of young men, not
                                                                                                                  exceeding twelve in number, in the originar languages of
                                                                                                                  Scripture.
                                                                                                                       Terrill was an Elder of Broadmead church, and the yvriter
                                                                                                                  of the first portion of the Broadmead Records. He believed that
                                                                                                                  better times would come, although he did not live to see them,
                                                                                                                  and he left his property, subject to a life interest for his wife,
                                                                                                                  to secure an educated ministry. Is there not something inspiring
                                                                                                                  in the faith of Edward Terrill, a man wh0 had been fined and
                                                                                                                  imprisoned for his religious convictions: out who nevertheless;
                                                                                                                                                 2P2
      Bristol Baptist Colleg~the 2S'Oth' Anniversary 293
provided for the training of a ministry for those who should
come after him? He believed that the truths that he held dear
were the best legacy he could leave to' posterity, and .surely' a
better investment for the Kingdom of God was never made.
      Edward Terrill died in 1685 or 1686; but we do not know
when, by the decease of his widow, his bequest became available
for the purpose which he directed.
    . The accession of William Ill. made the way cleat for
Nonconformity, but, although the teaching of students was con-
sidered at the Baptist Assembly in London in .1689, no immediate
action was taken. Soon after, we. find the church at Plymouth
(now George Street) sending a contribution towards the education
of Richard Sampson, a young man whom they had plat;~d at
Bristol under the tuition of Mr. WilIiam Thomas, one of the
ejected ministers. Mr. Sampson became pastor of the Baptist
cilUrch at Exeter in .1692. He is the first of whom we know
that studied at Bristol.
      The earliest traceable application of Terrill's fund was when,
in 1710 or 1711, Caleb Jope became co-pastor with the Rev. Peter
Kitterell at Broadmead and also tutor~
      Matters, however, did not proceed satisfactorily, SOl in 1720
we find Bernard Foskett appointed as Mr. Jope's successor.
Foskett was born at Wobum (Bedfordshire) and trained for the
medical profession. At the age of seventeen he was baptised
at Little Wild Street, London; subsequently, under the influence
of his life-long friend, John Beddome, he became minister of
the Baptist church at Henley-in-Arden, whence he was called
to Bmadmead as tutor, and also as assistant to Peter ~tterell.
Foskett was a Puritan. His portrait shows a man who had
to fight for his convictions in stem times-one to whom life was
duty rather than happiness.
      Hugh Evans, his colleague and successor, describes him as
an exemplary Christian, and an ardent student,generous to those
in need' and often using' his medical knowledge for the relief
,of sufferers. Upon his students he strongly impressed the
importance of conscientious work and the seriousness of the
ministerial charge.
      Foskett presided over the College for thirty-eight years:
During that time its work became firmly established. The
students were supported from various sources. In 1717 the
 London Particular .Baptist Fund and the Bristol Baptist :E'und
were instituted for the education of ministers and other purposes.
 Both of these and sometimes private benefactors sent       men   to
the College.'             .
      No list survives of the students taught .by Foskett. We are
-told by Hugh Evans that "most of them approved themselves
 294                 The Baptist Quarterly
 truly serious and with great reputation filled many of our
 churches"; but for us their record is lost. We rightly value
 out-standing leaders, but the greater part of the church's work
 is done by men whose names and achievements are unknown.
      A few of them we know. Among Foskett's students was
 Benjamin Beddome, son of Foskett'slife-Iong friend, John
 Beddome, minister of the Pithay Church, Bristol. Benjamin
 Beddome wrote many hymns; one by him is familiar to us : -
                Father of mercies, bow Thine ear,
                Attentive to our earnest prayer;
                We plead for those who plead for Thee;
                Successful pleaders may they be.
        For fifty-five years Beddome was pastor of the church at
. Bourton-on-the-Water. Under his ministry John Collett Ryland,
  afterwards minister at Warwick and N orthamptOlIl, was con-
  verted. Thus we can trace a stream of influence from Foskett,.
  through Beddome, to John Collett Ryland, and thence to Dr.
  John Ryland and to Samuel Bagster, who was a pupil in the
  school kept by John Collett Ryland and the founder of a printing:.
  :firm; noteworthy for its issue of Bibles. So, like the streamlets
  from the Cotswolds, which Beddome and Ryland knew so well,
  making the Thames and flowing to the sea, influences from the
  college class room· went forth to. bless the world in countless
  ways. To endeavour to trace some of these would be an inspiring
  and instructive task, but the limits of this paper forbid more than
  a few references.
        Bristol's earliest daughter-college was planted in America.
  by Morgan Edwards, a student under Foskett, who after some:
  English pastorates was invited to the Baptist church at
  Philadelphia. As a historian he gathered particulars of American
  Baptist history and founded Rhode Island College, which after-
  wards became Brown University and celebrated its hundred and
  fiftieth anniversary recently.
        The link between the College and her daughter institution
  is seen in the gift of duplicate volumes from Bristol Colleg~e
  Library to Rhode Island College in 1785.
        Foskett died in 1758, and was succeeded by Hugh Evans"
  one of his students and for many· years his assistant. Dr.
  Rippon, himself a student under Hugh Evans, speaks of him.
  as an earnest scholar, less austere than Foskett, and one whom
  all his students regarded as a friend and father. His son. Dr;
  CaIeb Evans, was his colleague and succeeded him as President
  in 1779. Under these the College was reorganised in 1770 and
  placed on a firmer financial basis. In .the appeal for support
  it was thought needful to defend the education of ministers
  against the charge of interference with the work of the Holy
     Bristol Baptist. College-the 25Qtb Anniversary 295
Spirit; it is to the work of our Colleges that we owe our escape
from this mistaken view.
  .' From the reorganisation of the institution in 1770 its annual
published reports begin.
       Shortly after this, the College was removed from Barr
Street, Bristol-its earliest known home-to North Street, where
it occupied two houses which are now business premises. In the
garden behind these a room known as the Gifford Museum was
erected in 1780.                                       .
       Dr. Andrew Gifford, whose father and grandfather had
been ministers of the Pithay Church, Bristol, was the minister
of Eagle Street Church, London, and an assistant librarian of
the British Museum. He gathered a large collection of manu-
scripts, pictures, coins and other treasures, which, together with
his library; he gave td the College. In this gift was included
an .important collection of Bibles, among which are the only
complete copy of the first edition of \Vm. Tyndale's New
Testament of 1525 and first editiqns ot the principal translations
of the Bible into English, also some volumes -printed by Williaril
Caxton and Wynken de W oorde, and valuable Latin and Greek
editions of Scripture by Erasmus, Stephens and others. The
collection also has a holograph letter of Oliver CromweIl and
a contemporary miniature of the Protector by Cooper. About
the same time Dr. Thomas Llewellyn, a scholarly minister, who
had been a student under Foskett, bequeathed his valuable library
and the bookcases containing it to the <;:ollege. The books and
treasures included in these gifts are carefully preserved in the
 College.
       The early part of the eighteenth century was not a time of
spiritUal prosperity. Toleration had been· gained, but there was
 little religious enthusiasm. Deistical, antinomian and other
 controversies absorbed much of the energy of the churches.
 Indifference to religion abounded. The membership of Baptist
 churches appears to have declined. Nevertheless, during this
 dull time men were being prepared under Hugh and Caleb Evans,
 who worthily shared in the new enterprises which opened· when
 the Evangelical Revival of Whitefield and Wesley came.
       Among these was Dr. Rippon, for sixty-three years the
 minister of Carter Lane, London. To improve the service of
 praise, he compiled "Rippon's Selection" of hymns, which was
 widely used in Baptist and Congregational -churches; and as
 a denominational historian he compiled the' Bapti'st Register,
 our earliest publication dealing witH contemporary events in
 English and American Baptist churches. Rippon was one of
 the founders of the Baptist Union, and its ardent supporter in
 the difficult days of its infancy.
296                  The Baptist Quarterly
      Another notable group of Bristol men were those who took
part in the founding of the Baptist Missionary Society. Among
the. thirteen who met in 1792 and formed the society in Mrs.
Beeby Wallis's house at Kettering were four former students,
Dr. John RyIand, John Sutcliffe, Samuel Pearce and Thomas
Blundell, also one, then a student in College, who borrowed
the half-guinea which he contributed to that first collection of
£13 2s. 6d.; he afterwards became Dr. William Staughton of
Columbian College, Washington. Of John Sutcliffe and his
academy at Olney, there is an interesting account in the Br:tptist
Quarterly for April. On the death of Andrew Fuller, Dr. Ryland
and another Bristol student, J ames Hinton, of Oxford, became
co-secretaries of the Baptist Missionary Society. Since the
commencement of the society more than a hundred Bristol.
students have become missionaries.
      The religious awakening of the latter half of the eighteenth
century led to establishments of other Baptist Colleges in England.
Many ministers kept schools, and some of their pupils were
specially prepared for the ministry, as was the case in Sutcliff's
academy; but more colleges were needed;
    . In 1804 the Northern Education Society was formed, and
a year later Horton College (afterwards Rawdon) was
established, and a Bristol student, Dr. William Steadman, became
its first President; in 1837 he was succeeded by Dr. Acworth,
also a Bristol man. In 1807, to meet the needs of Wales, and
owing to the difficulty of teaching Welsh-speaking students at
Bristol, Micah Thomas, a Bristol man, founded the college at
Abergavenny, which was subsequently removed to Pootypool and
later to Cardiff. Robert Hall wrote the appeal for funds to
establish Stepney College. Another student, Solomon Young,
was one of the early Presidents of Stepney' College. (now
Regent's Park). In all, forty-two Bristol students have become
Principals or tutors of colleges at home or abroad.
      Dr. Caleb Evans was succeeded by Dr. John Ryland, who·-
for thirty-two years sustained the double office of pastor of
Broadmead and Principal of the college. His strenuous industry
and untiring energy were shown both in the college and in
his labours on behalf of the Baptist Missionary Society. During
his Presidency the college was removed to Stokes. Croft, to allow
of more students being accommodated. The new building was·
begun in 1806, but difficulties connected with the French war
delayed its completion until 1812. .Its sit.e was then in the
suburbs, and pleasant fields' stretched beyond it to the little village
of Horfield; now it is a busy part of the city.
      Among the distinguished men of this period is Joseph
Hughes, a Bristol student who l'ater became a tutor of the
      Bristol Baptist College-the 250th Anniversary 297
 iCollege and assistant at Broadmead. These two offices were
  usually combined. He afterwards ministered to the church at
  Battersea, and became one of the founders and the first secretary
 .of the Religious Tract Society. When the Rev. Thomas Charles
 lOf Bala 'laid before the Tract Society the great need of Bibles
 in Wales, Hughes suggested the formation of a society for
 that purpose. Thus the British and Foreign Bible Society came
 into being, and Hughes was its first secretary.
       Among eminent Bristol preachers the first place belongs to
 Robert Hall. Under the patronage of Dr. Ward's Trust he
 studied at Bristol under Dr. Caleb Evans, and at Aberdeen
 University. His influence by voice and pen extended far beyond
 denominational limits. Even in his student days he showed
 ,conspicuous ability, and at their close he was appointed assistant
 at Broadmead and tutor of. the College. About five years later
 he removed to Cambridge, where for fifteen years he exercised
a remarkable ministry in that university city. After a pastorate
at Harvey Lane, Leicester, he returned to Bristol. It is
 interesting to notice that the chief disputants respecting open and
dosed communion, Robert Hall and J oseph Kinghorn respectively,
 were fellow students in college.
       A noteworthy contempol'ary of Robert Hall was John Foster~
 Hall 'excelled as a preacher; Foster, as an essayist. Hall drew
 great crowds as a popu1ar orator; Foster ministered to small
:churches, but wielded an enormous influence with his pen. Mos~
 Qf Foster's ministerial life was passed at Downend, a small
 village about six miles from Bristol, but his essays and his
 <:ontributions to the Eclectic Review put him among the foremost
 literary men ,of his day.
      During Ryland's presidency Joshua Marshman came to
 Bristol as teacher in a school supported by Broadmead, and after
attending classes at the College went out to Serampore, forming
one of the notable trio-Carey, Marshman and Ward~
    . Dr. Ryland was succeeded as Principal by Mr. Thomas Steffe
Crisp. He is described as a retiring man who never willingly
 took a public position, but one who never shrank from what
he felt to be his duty.
      Two notable men were fellow students under him-Dr. F. W.
Gotch, afterwards tutor and 'Principal of the college, and Dr.
'Benjamin Davies, afterwards tutor at Regent's Park College.
 Both of these had the honour of being members of the Old
Testament Revision Committee, which was a worthy tribute to
their distinction in Semitic studies.                              .
      1111 1836, the year before Dr. Gotchbecame Principal, the
College was accepted as an Affiliated College of London Uni-
v:ersity. At that time only students of institutions thus recognised
298                 The Baptist Quarterly
were allowed to sit for London University Examinations. ThiS'
restriction has long ago been abolished.             _
      Of the students who studied under Dr. Gotch some are
still with us. and bear witness to his sound scholarship and!
the regard in which he was held by all of them.
      To follow the influence of the College in the lives of its;
alumni is a pleasing pursuit, but the time at· our disposal compels.
us to abandon it.                                         -
      Dr. Gotch was succeeded by Dr. Culross, whom all his
students loved as a friend and revered as -a saint.
      The late Dr. Henderson ably presided over the College for
twenty-nine. years. Many ministers and missionaries who were
students under him, bear witness to the inspiration and evange-
lical fervour of his teaching, and to the earnestness with which
he urged personal effort for winning the men outside the churches,.
which he himself so successfully practised during his ministry
at Coventry.
   . During the Principalship of Dr. Henderson several important
changes took place. The Congregational '~Western College"
was removed from Plymouth to Bristol in 1901, and the two-
institutions arranged to share their classes. By this the staff
of tutors was doubled without increased cost; and also larger
classes promoted healthy rivalry among the students. This·
fellowship has worked harmoniously to the mutual benefit of
the colleges, and· still continues.
      In 1910, the Bristol University College, where the students
had for many years attended classes· in Arts, was constituted-
Bristol University. Of this, the Baptist and Western Colleges
became Associated Colleges, so that their theological classes are
recognised for the preparation. of students for a Bachelor of
Arts Degree, with a special theological curriculum,similar to
that of the London University Bachelor of Divinity.
      A further change was the removal of the College to Tyndall's
Park, close to the University. The foundation stone of the new
building, designed by Messrs. Oatley and Lawrence, was laid
in 1913 by Mr. and Mrs. Edward- Robinson. The war and the
part taken by the students in the work of the Young Men's
Christian AssOciation and armv service in France, led to the·
postponement of the opening until 1919, when it was opened
by Mr. Herbert Marnham, who was that year the President of
the Baptist Union. In connection with this task, so happily
completed, mention must be made of the work of the late Dr.
Richard Glover, Honorary Secretary of the College for forty-
 siX years; of Mr. Edward Robinson, J.P., who has been its
Treasurer since 1885, and of Dr. \V. J. Henderson, the Principal
of the institution.
      Bristol Baptist College-th~ 250th Anniversary 299!
     Dr. Henderson retired in 1922 and Dr. C. D. Whittaker
succeeded to the Presidency. Illness necessitated his retirement
and Dr. Arthur Dakin became Principal in 1924, and he is now
vigorously carrying on the work in which so many distinguished
leaders have preceded him.
     Under the blessing of God, the College has had a great.
past, and it rests upon future generations to make its work iru
the coming days, by God's help, worthy of its history.




  .-Henry Miller of W arbleton, 1729~.
T       HE Millers of Kent and Susse."{ were a family greatly en,..
      . riched under James I., and bearing arms. One branch
 settled at Winkinghurst, two miles north of Hellingly, twelve
 miles north of Beachy I-Iead. Henry was bred an attorney in
 London, and afterwards with Mr. Raines of Coneyburr:oughs in,;
 Barcombe, a great conveyancer and court-keeper; but not liking
 the practice of the common law, he only practised conveyancing.
 He married Mary, widow of Thomas Dean, and eldest daughter
 of Robert Tapsfield of Framfield. Their eldest child, Mary"
 married Robert Mercer, who settled at lfield, and they had six:
 children including Joseph and Thomas.
       There was a county lady named Fuller whose son John,
afterwards was elected M.P. for Sussex in 1713. She betame
interested in baptism, and arranged a debate on the question in.
the Waldron parish church. This could-hardly have taken
place till the Toleration Act, on general principles; we do know
that king William did authorize such proceedings; and we do
know that Miller went; he was born in 1666.
      The disputants were John Tattersall, A.M., the rector, and!
 Matthew Caffin,' an Oxford man, now Elder of the General
Baptist church at Horsham, an accomplished debater. One
 I'esult was that both Madam Fuller and young Miller were'
convinced, and were soon baptized on profession of their faith.
Miller stopped practising law, says Crosby, and began studying-
divinity.                                                         .
-     There were evidently other converts, and they gathered into,
a church, known from two of its meeting-places, at first as
