..umamiSKiaftHaiM 



8V 



BARNES LIBRARY 
ANARFI TAYI nR HftlJ- 



BARNES HALL LIBRARY 



THIS BOOK IS THE PROPERTY OF 



THE CORNELL UNIVERSITY 
CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION 

ITHACA, NEW YORK 



Date Due 



































































































































PRINTED IN 


U. 5, A. 


(OJ 


NO. 23333 



BV2390.S93"l89f ""''""'^ 
"iflKiii'illiil.'ilLf,'''** International Conven 




3 1924 008 533 105 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924008533105 



iiM i M i aiinu; i .i 



I: 



REPORT 



FIRST International Convention 



Student Volunteer Movement 



FOREIGN MISSIONS, 



HBLD AT 



CLEVELAND, OHIO, U. S. A., FEBRUARY 26, 27, 28, 

AND MARCH 1, 1891. 

9'' 



1891 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Page. 

Alrica ' 13, 14, 137, 140, 156 

Achievements of the Student Voliinteer Movement . . . 26, 163 

Application to Missionary Societies . • 33, 51, 54, 166 

Brazil . : . 95, 96, 103, 127 

Burmah . . . . .... 14, 102 

China . . . . . 98, 140, 151, 158 

China Inland Mission . .... 49 

Classification of Volunteers ... 28, 36 

Contributions to Missions . 77, 82, 104, 164 

Corea . . ; . . ... 154 

Delegates, List of 191 

, Editorial Work in Foreign Missions . . . . 96 

Educational Phase of Missionary Work 62, 91, 147 

Evangelistic Work on the Mission Field 68, 98, 151 

Evangelization of the World in this Generation, The . 73, 81, 160 

Extension of the Student Volunteer Movement . , 22, 163 

Farewell Meeting . . . . 174 

Hindered Volunteers . 37, 38, 164 

History of the Student Volunteer Movement .... -21, 161 

Holy Spirit in Missions, The . . . 7, 47, 172 

Immediate Sailing of Volunteers . . . . ... . . . . 42 

India 61, 95, 113, 147 

Industrial Work on the Mission Field ; 65 

Information, The Aooumulating^and Disseminating of Missionary . 107 

Japan . . . . .94, 175 

Literature, Missionary .... . . . 108, 206 

Medical Work on the Mission Field ... 66, 89 

Missionary Pastors ....... . . 45, 70 

Nugget Meeting ... : ... . 146 

Officers of Convention . . 6 

Officers of the Student Volunteer Movement ... . . 5, 24 

Organization of the Student Volunteer Movement . . . .23, 163 

Perils and Privileges of the Student Volunteer Movement 161 

Phases of Missionai?y Work . . 89, 91, 93, 96, 98 

Policy of the Student Volunteer Movement . 31 

Prayer and Missions . . . 100, 105, 113, 152, 174 

Prefatory Note 3 

Present Status of the Student Volunteer Movement , 
Qualifications for Missionary Work 
Eeport of the Executive Committee . 
Representatives of Missionary Societies 
Requirements of the Missionary Boards 

Returned Missionaries 

Securing Volunteers 
Self-Support . . . 
Shanghai Conference . 

Simultaneous Meetings 

Spiritual Claims of the Orient, The 

Spiritual Crisis in the Occident, The . 

Study of Missions . . 

Turkey . ... ... ... 

Volunteer Band, The 

Volunteer Life in Individual Institutions, The 
Volunteer Pledge, The .... . . 

Volunteer Preparation, The ... 

Volunteer's Work among the Churches. . ... 

Women's Work in Foreign Missions ; 

Young Men's Christian Association in Foreign Lands 







. . 28 


. 45, 


111, 


116, 126, 159 

. . 21 

188, 189 

45, 49 

. . 190 

. 106, 170 

44, 90, 155 

18, 154, 158 

60, 125 

134 

. . 127 

• 40, 107, 120 

102, 147 

31, 40 

39 

. . , 33 


. 116, 


118, 


122, 126, 169 


26, 41, 


104, 


108, 164, 171 
63, 110, 113 



REPORT 



First international Convention 



Student Volunteer Movement 



FOREIGN MISSIONS, 



HELD AT 



CLEVELAND, OHIO, U. S. A., FEBRUARY 26, 27, 28, 
AND MARCH 1, 1891. 



"The Evangelization of the World in this Generation." 



Press of T. O. Metcalf & Co., 

BOSTON, MASS. 



^7^ 



IkJ 



'fomA 



PREFATORY NOTE. 



The first International Convention of the Student Volunteer Move- 
ment for Foreign Missions was held February 26 to March 1, 1891. 
Since the inception of the Movement, five years ago, at Mt. Hermon, 
there had never be*n held a student convention for volunteers, — there 
had never been even a rallying point for any considerable number of 
the 6,000 men and women enrolled upon our lists. The rapidly 
increasing- membership and consequent establishment of mission bands 
in numerous educational institutions which are geographically too 
widely separated to be in touch with one another, or to receive help 
from the central organization, made it desirable that a large number of 
representative volunteers assemble in conference. 

The key-note of the Convention was the key-note of the Move- 
ment : " The Evangelization of the World in this Generation." 
The object of the Convention was : 1. To afford an opportunity for 
the free discussion of many problems confronting the Movement. 2. 
To secure for the volunteers the advantages coming from intimate 
contact with Missionary Board secretaries and returned foreign mission- 
aries. 3. To enlighten Board secretaries and others in regard to 
methods and aims of the Student Volunteer Movement for Foreign 
Missions. 4. By a closer union in prayer and purpose on the part of 
volunteers, secretaries, and missionaries, to give a new impetus to the 
great cause of world-wide evangelization in the present generation. 

Cleveland, Ohio, was selected as the place of meeting, because 
geographically the center of the volunteer population of the United 
States and the Dominion of Canada. The new and commodious build- 
ing of the Young Men's Christian Association was thrown open for 
this purpose from February 26 to March 1. 

It was feared that the selection of time — in the midst of a college 
term's work — would prevent a good attendance. But, contrary to the 
most sanguine expectations, a larger student body assembled in 
Cleveland, Ohio, than ever assembled on a similar occasion in the 
world's history of foreign missionary effort. Every State east of the 
Missouri River and north of the Gulf Une of States, save one, was 
represented. In all, 558 students, representing 151 educational insti- 
tutions, were present, besides 32 Board representatives and 31 returned 
foreign missionaries. Fully 20 denominations were represented. 



The results of the Cleveland Convention have been well marked, 
abundant, and blessed. A more intimate and intelligent relation has 
been estabhshed between volunteers and denominational Boards than 
ever before existed. Hundreds of students have gained enthusiasm 
and devotion in the purpose to evangelize the world in this generation ; 
in many instances dispirited or half-hearted volunteers have been 
moved to resolve to go to their chosen fields as soon as the way opens ; 
one secretary alone received 17 applications at Cleveland for appoint- 
ment to the foreign work. 

In order that the pamphlet be of proper length and not too bulky, 
the editors have been obliged to condense freely, and in some instances 
to omit entire addresses. This has been done with reluctance, since 
many topics treated in an able and helpful way have had to be spared. 

God's presence was manifested in so real and extraordinary a man- 
ner at the sessions of the Convention that the hope is cherished that 
the record of the sessions of the Convention, may in some degree 
bring to others the abundant blessings enjoyed by the privileged ones 
who were in attendance. 



OKKICERS 

OF THE 

STUDENT VOLUNTEER MOVEMENT FOR 
FOREIGN MISSIONS. 



Executioe Comrii Ittee. 



John R. Mott, College Young Men's Christian Association. 
Miss Nettie Dunn, College Young Women's Christian Association. 
RoBEET P. WiLDBE, American Inter-Seminary Missionary Alliance 
and the Canadian Intercollegiate Missionary Alliance. 



Advisory Committee. 



Rev. Geo. Alexander, D.D. 
Bishop M. S. Baldwin, D.D. 
Miss Abbib B. Child. 



Pres. Meeeill E. Gates. 
Rev. A. J. Goedon, D.D. 
Rev. A. T. PiEESON, D.D. 



Secretaries. 

William H. Cossum, ) _, ,. 
,,. ^ _, _ y Traveling. 

Miss Lucy E. Guinness, ) 

Max Wood Mooehead, Editorial. 

Waltbe J. Claek, Corresponding, and Treasurer, 97 Bible House, 

New York City. 

Corresponding Members of the Executive Committee. 



Robeet F. Lennington, Jacksonville. 
Ieving N. Meeeifield, Morgan Park 
Beet L. Lee, 
Feed J. Towee, 
Aechibald C. IIaete, 
Robeet E. Speee, 
William L. Beat, 
Feed S. Retan, 
North Carolina, R. Lee McNaie, 



Illinois 

Michigan 
Missouri 
New England 
New Jersey 
New York 



Olivet. 

Parkville. 

Middletown, Conn. 

Princeton. 

Ithaca. 

Hamilton. 

Davidson College. 



Ohio William Reed Newell, Wooster. 

Tennessee . Flbtchek S. Brockman, Nashville. 

Virginia Cambeon Johnson, Hampden- Sidney. 

John G. Scott, University of Virginia. 

Vermont Geoege F. Pitkin, Burlington. 

Wisconsin J. S. Hotten, 619 Francis St., Madison. 



OFFICERS OF THE CONVENTION. 



John R. Mott 
Walter J. Claek 



Moderator. 
Secretary. 



Assistant Secretaries. 
HoEACE T. Pitkin, Yale. Alfred L. Shapleigh, Harvard. 

Musical Director. 
Aethue J. Smith. 



Chas. L. Potter 
J. C. White 
W. W. Smith 
R. J. Kellogg 
Frank H. Wood 



Chairman Committee on Entertainment. 
Chairman Business Committee. 
Chairman Committee on Book Exhibit. 
Chairman Committee on Chart Exhibit. 
Chairman Committee on Usherii;ig. 



FIRST DAY, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26. 

Evening Session. 

The Convention was called to order by Mr. John R. Mott, Chair- 
man. Mr. Robert P. Wilder conducted a brief devotional exercise, 
speaking from Haggai ii. Mr. J. L. Taylor, President of the Young 
Men's Christian Association of Cleveland, welcomed the delegates as 
follows : — 

" I amjvery glad to be able to be before you to-night, because I want 
to tell the delegates and volunteer missionaries, and other workers in 
the work of the Lord, if I can, how much I appreciate the honor con- 
ferred in having you with us. We are glad to welcome you in such a 
magnificent hall as this, for we feel justly proud of our new building. 
But we feel a pride far beyond that, in welcoming you in this our new 
hall, — you who are going forth to carry the Gospel as a witness unto 
all nations, — thus dedicating our hall to the work of the Lord. And 
we trust that we, the Christian people of the city of Cleveland, as many 
days as you are with us, can, by our prayers and by all that lies in our 
power, help you to glorify Him, in whose name we are gathered to- 
gether to-night. And while many of us young men in this city may 
not see our way clear to go forth to the work in the regions beyond, 
we hope that the Lord will lay it upon our hearts to consecrate what 
He has given us to help send you to take the Gospel to foreign lands. 
And so I bid you a most hearty welcome, not only to our new buUding, 
but, as a citizen of Cleveland, I welcome you to our city. Again, I 
want to say that we deeply appreciate the honor of entertaining those 
of you who are intending to carry out the Master's last command by 
going to preach the Gospel to all nations." 

An account of the extension of the movement and its present status 
was given by Mr. Mott. The facts stated will be found in the Report 
of the Executive Committee, which was presented the next morning. 

The Holt Spieit in Missions. 

The Rev. A. J. Gordon, D.D., of Boston, Mass., said: — 

" It is one of the great principles of Christianity," says Pascal, 

" that whatever happened to Jesus Christ should come to pass in the soul 

and body of every believer." Jesus Christ was the first Great Foreign 

Missionary. But if He has called us by His Spirit to be missionaries, 



we are missionaries of the same school as Himself; for He said, "As 
the Father hath sent me into the world, so have I sent you into the 
world." And yet I desire to remind you that He did not enter upon 
His mission until He had Himself sought and obtained the special 
gracious anointing of the Holy Ghost for His work ; and that all 
through His missions and His ministry He depended upon the Holy 
Spirit, just as He requires and commands that we should. If we were 
to ask Him how He cast out devils, we hear Him answer, " I by the 
Spirit of God do cast out devils." If we ask Him how it was possible 
that He had power to lay down His life and power to take it up again, 
that He could yield Himself up to God as a sacrifice for the sins of the 
world, we read the answer in the Epistle to the Hebrews, that 
He through the eternal Spirit offered Himself up without spot unto 
God. And after He rose from the dead, we read, in the opening 
verses of the Acts of the Apostles, that " He was taken uj), after that 
He through the Holy Ghost had given commandment unto His 
apostles whom He had chosen." Thus, from the beginning to the very 
end of His ministry, from His baptism to His ascension. He wrote and 
spoke and acted under the power and inspiration of the Holy Ghost. 
I am sure, therefore, it will be very obvious that if He needed the 
Spirit much more do we need Him. And that is the subject about 
which I am to speak to-night. 

Now, if the sentence I quoted in the beginning be true, that every- 
thing which happened to Him is to come to pass in His disciples, we 
can study this subject no more intelligently than by tracing Jesus 
Christ's relation to the Holy Spirit, and then see how the same things 
are predicted and said of us who are to be His missionary co-laborers. 
Let us begin with the wonderful scene recorded in Luke ui. 21. 
Jesus had come with the multitude to John the Baptist, to be baptized 
of him, and now we read that " when all the people were baptized, it 
came to pass, that Jesus also being baptized, and praying, the heaven 
was opened." I wonder how many of us ever noticed that word 
" praying." Though He were the Son of God, yet " He learned obe- 
dience by the things which He suffered ; " and though He were the Son 
of God, He Himself prayed, presuming nothing in regard to His rela- 
tion to the Father. 

What is He praying about ? Most clearly He is asking for the gift 
of the Holy Ghost. Is there any promise that He can plead ? for the 
New Testament Scriptures had not yet been written. I think I may 
say almost without hesitation that I can put my finger upon the 
promise He would most naturally use ; it is recorded in the eleventh 
chapter of Isaiah, the first verse : " And there shall come forth a rod 
out of the stem of Jesse, and a Branch shall grow out of his roots." 



9 

He has come, He is here. Now what is the promise? "And the Spirit 
of the Lord shall rest upon Him, the spirit of wisdom and understand- 
ing, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the 
fear of the Lord." 

Have you observed that this is a seven-fold Spirit. Turn to the 
book of Revelation : John says, he saw Him as a Lamb having seven 
horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God ; in other 
words, the complete and full manifestation of the Spirit in Jesus Christ, 
the fullness of the Holy Ghost. So He was prajdng for the Holy ( Ihost 
in His seven-fold power, because God giveth not His Sjiirit by measure 
unto His Son. And while He prays He is heard, and the heavens 
open, and the Spirit descends like a dove and rests upon Him. 

You remember how ISToah sent forth the dove out of the ark and it 
could find no resting place for the soles of its feet, and flew at last 
wearily back for shelter in the ark. And so I have often thought the 
dove of the Holy Sphit had gone forth from the ark in heaven and had 
hovered over laany a head of our great human race, but never before 
had found a single spot where He could alight and rest the soles of His 
feet, until Jesus emerged from the Jordan, and the Spirit descended 
like a dove and rested upon Him, and the promise was literally fulfilled. 
" And I saw and bear record that this is the Son of God." Upon whom 
thou shalt see the Spirit descending and remaining on Him, the same 
is He which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost.'' He had the Holy Ghost 
in His fullness, coming no longer in casual contact, but to abide with 
Him ; henceforth He is the one that baptizeth Mnth the Holy Ghost. 

Now observe that when the disciples on the day of Pentecost came 
together to pray, they had the definite promise also. They were told 
to " wait for the promise of the Father which, saith he, ye have heard of 
me. For John truly baptized withVater, but ye shall be baptized with 
the Holy Ghost not many days hence." And they pleaded the promise, 
and the Holy Ghost came upon them, and they were all baptized with 
the Holy Ghost, and began to sjjeak with other tongues as the Spirit 
gave them utterance. But somebody says : " That was the early church. 
Does Pentecost need to be repeated ?" Certainly not. In one sense, 
just as at Jesus' birth the second person of the Trinity became incar- 
nate in human flesh, so, on the day of Pentecost, the thii-d person of 
the Trinity became incarnate in the body of the Church, which is the 
whole body of believers in all generations — in that sense Pentecost 
cannot be repeated, because the Holy Ghost had now come to be in 
ofiice and abide forever. Nevertheless, we observe that when the 
Gentiles had heard the word the same thing was repeated in a certain 
sense, because the Holy Ghost descended upon them. And so we be- 
lieve, down to the present time, if we are to go forth as missionaries of 
the cross, we need the same thing. 



10 

And wliat promise shall we plead in these days ? I think here is 
one that we may take now and plead, just as Christ had a promise and 
the first disciples had a promise. This is ours : "If a son shall ask 
bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone ? or if he 
ask a fish, will he for a fish give him a serpent ? or if he shall ask an 
egg, will he offer him a scorpion ? If ye then, being evil know how to 
give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly 
Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him ? " That is our 
promise. Has it not been fulfilled again and again in our day ? 

When I take up a book on the Holy Spirit, my first question is, 
does the wiiter of this book speak of any personal experience ? On the 
cars coming to Cleveland I read an admirable little book by Pastor 
Topfel, of Geneva, on "The Holy Spirit in Missions." On the 52d 
page I read this passage, which I repeat from memory : " Not far from 
the place where I am now writing, many years ago, a teacher had a 
class gathered about him and was discoursing upon the Holy Spirit, 
when he came to that memorable promise : 'If ye then, being evil, 
know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall 
your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him ? ' he 
paused and said, - Young gentlemen, it is right that you should take this 
promise to yourselves, that you should believe it, that you should look 
to the instant fulfillment of that promise.' One at least that heard that 
exhortation went away and sought with all diligence the anointing of the 
Holy Ghost, and very soon the Spirit of God came into him. That young 
man has now become the teacher and a pastor, but he never reads owe 
passage in the Scripture without the deepest emotion, because that 
passage records what is the most vital experience of his Ufe. ' How 
much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them 
that ask Him.' " 

Three weeks ago I read a little book on " The Holy Spirit," by 
Professor Moule, of Cambridge, a man wonderfully endeared to the 
students and to the Christian public generally in England for his 
remarkable spirituality and great tenderness and beauty and simplicity 
of Christian life. He is now the principal trainer of young men for 
the ministry in the Established Church of England at Cambridge, 
England. He writes : " There was a time subsequent to my conver- 
sion when I was brought into such relation with the Holy Spirit that 
for the first time I knew Him as a personal friend and intimate 
helper. And from that day He has been so wonderfully with me that 
I cannot describe the constant joy and untroubled peace which I have 
enjoyed since that day when I was brought into intimate fellowship 
with the Holy Spirit." 

Many years since I met George Mueller, of Bristol, for the first 
time, having read with great interest the story of his life, and I greatly 



11 

desired to have a few moments' conversation with him, which was 
granted. My first question was, " Mr. Mueller, will you kindly tell me 
when you were converted ? " " If you ask when I was born again, it 
was in such a year, while I was a student in the University of Halle ; 
but if you want to know when I became out and out for God, it was 
such a year," mentioning a later day. And he went on to tell me how, 
having lived a barren and fruitless Christian life for many years, he, 
with a few intimate friends, met together in a room and began to pray 
that they might receive the gift of the Spirit. " He came to us with 
such power that at some times it was almost impossible for me to leave 
Him, His power was so sweet and so entrancing ; and I knew what it 
meant to be baptized with the Holy Ghost." 

I have given you these three illustrations from eminent lives to show 
that we are talking not about something far away and theoretical, 
but something near at hand and practical. As Jesus Christ prayed 
that the Holy Ghost might come and He came, so it is our privilege 
here to-night, in the same way, to ask and to believe, that we may be 
anointed for the great service of preaching the Gospel to the ends of 
the earth, to which God has called us. 

I read in the fourth chapter of Luke, the first verse : " And Jesus, 
being full of the Holy Ghost, returned from Jordan." Mark the 
expression, "being full of the Holy Ghost." Then I turned to the 
story of the Day of Pentecost and I read : " And they were all filled 
with the Holy Ghost," — exactly the same statement. And then I 
turned to Ephesians and I read : " Be not drunk with wine, wherein is 
excess ; but be filled with the Spirit ; speaking to yourselves in psalms and 
hymns and spiritual songs." That is a wonderful metaphor — •- Be 
not drunk with wine." You have seen how an intoxicated man, when 
he is filled with strong drink, speaks out that which the spirit with- 
in him inspires. Well, says the apostle, be like that man; only, 
instead of the spiiit of wine, let it be the Spirit of One that shall con- 
trol you to speak out what He inspires. 

Here is something that is given as a direct duty — " Be ye filled 
with the Spirit." How can I ? some one asks. The answer is often 
made. You must empty yourself before you can be filled with the Holy 
Ghost. But who is sufiioient to empty himself ? I believe God's way 
is rather the expulsive power of a new affection, throwing off and 
casting away the old, of which we cannot rid ourselves. There are two 
ways of emptying a tumbler of water : you can turn it up-side down, 
or you may drop quicksilver into it drop by drop until all the water 
will have gone out. Suppose you begin in the same way to seek the 
Holy Spirit, and see if, in that way, — getting filled with the Holy 
Ghost, — that which you desire to have cast out is not cast out ! The 



12 

Spirit of the Lord witliin us is adequate to cast out the evil spirit that 
still desires to hold sway. 

How was it with the great Apostle ? He was told that he was a 
chosen vessel to bear Christ's name far hence among the Gentiles. 
How was that vessel prepared? God suddenly, after he had been con- 
verted, poured the Holy Sj^irit into him. Ananias was sent to pray 
for him aiid lay his hands ujjon him, that he might receive the Holy 
Ghost ; and immediately, we have it stated, that being full of ^the Holy 
Ghost he said thus and did thus. 

Now what do we want, according to that Scripture ? You know 
that memorable phrase used by Novalis about Spinoza, " He is a God- 
intoxicated man." God wants that kind of men to-day, — men inebri- 
ated with the Holy Ghost ; men that may be counted insane sometimes 
because of the tremendous earnestness of their fire and zeal. 

You remember that Zinzendorf started one of the most remarkable 
movements of the Christian era, — that movement which has its center 
at Herrnhut. There was a time when he came and laid his fortune, 
his honors, his titles, his property, himself, upon the altar, and said, 
" Lord I surrender it all up." Immediately after, he said, " I have but 
one passion — it is He, it is He alone. The world is the field, and the 
field is the world ; and henceforth that country shall be my home 
where I can be most used in winning souls for Chiist.'' Then came 
temptation and obloquy, and scorn and hatred from those who said, 
" He is beside himself." And he said, " The Spirit of God so came 
upon me after that consecration that it seemed to me, as I went about 
my missionary service, that rather than walking on earth I was simply 
swimming in an atmosphere of love and joy." 

I think the most sacred spot my feet have ever stood upon was in 
that little island of lona on the coast of Scotland. There, one after- 
noon, with my friend. Dr. Pierson, I looked across to the green banks 
and fields of Scotland that were visible to the eye, and I was filled with 
wonder and astonishment that one man in the sixth century, known in 
history as St. Columba, stormed the whole of Scotland from this little 
island and won it for Christ, — he had two or three associates, but prac- 
tically did it alone, — from Inverness on the north to Edinburgh on the 
south. And if to-day the question were asked who was the greatest 
of the benefactors of Scotland, it would be answered, St. Columba, 
who planted the Gospel, and John Knox, who reformed the Church. 
And as I stood on that spot and thought of what that one man wrought, 
I wondered if there was any secret that would show where his power 
lay. I picked up later a history of this man, and found it stated there : 
" He never spent one hour without study, or writing, or some other 
holy occupation, so incessantly was he engaged in devotions. Not a 



13 

day but the burden of his communion seemed almost beyond the endur- 
ance of the human soul. But how he was loved by all ! For a holy 
joy ever was beaming from his face, revealing the joy and gladness 
with which the Holy Ghost filled his inmost soul." So one wrote who 
associated with him, and who often looked into his face. Is there any 
wonder that St. Columba alone, single-handed, conquered Scotland for 
Christ ? 

There is a missionary whom Dr. Smith, a famous writer on missions, 
declares in his belief to have been a greater missionary than St. Francis 
Xavier. I do not speak of Xavier for the results of his work, but for 
the zeal which he manifested, which was beyond all degree greater than 
that evinced by any other man. I speak of Raymund Lull. Two 
hundi'ed years before Columbus discovered America, in 1292, he started 
to plant the Gospel among the Mohametans of North Africa. What 
was the certain fate he was to meet ? Death was the penalty of making 
a single convert. But he would go, and when friends pleaded with 
him he said this : " He who loves not, lives not ; he who lives by the 
Life cannot die. Let me go." And he went, and when he had won 
his first convert, was stoned to death, counting it all joy that he was 
permitted to suffer martyrdom for Christ. These are men who, like 
theii" Master, knew what it was to be filled with the Holy Ghost. 

Now let us go on just a step farther. In the passage which we 
have just been reading, we have this phrase : " And he was led by the 
Spirit into the wilderness." I turn to the Epistles and find : " If ye 
be led of the Spirit, ye are not under the law ; " and, " as many as are 
led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God." In other words, 
that is the Christian's prerogative, to be led by the Spirit. To me it is 
one of the most charming and deeply interesting studies to observe in 
the Acts of the Apostles the familiarity with which the early disciples 
speak of the Holy Ghost as an actual, present friend. In that council 
at Jerusalem, when the question of the new converts is brought in, we 
hear Peter say : " It seemed good to the Holy Ghost and to us," as 
though he had said, " James and Peter and John and Paul were there, 
but there was another person there, and it seemed good to us and to 
Him." When Ananias and Sapphira committed the sin for which they 
were struck dead, see how he spoke : " Why hath Satan filled thine 
heart to lie to the Holy Ghost ? " And then we go on and read how, 
when he hears an inquirer in a chariot, the Spii'it said to Philip, " Go 
near, and join thyself to this chariot." See how perfectly they were 
under the guidance of the Spirit ! And again, " The Holy Ghost said. 
Separate me Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto I have called 
them." " So they being sent forth by the Holy Ghost, departed unto 
Seleuoia." And in the sixteenth chapter of Acts they were forbidden 



14 

by the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia, — now sent and now 
held back, now told to go and now that they must not go. " They 
assayed to go into Bithynia ; but the Spirit suffered them not." All 
through the Acts of the Apostles we see this. 

Has there been anything like it to-day, you say ? If we had an 
inspii'ed account of the modern missions as of the early missions of the 
Church, we should find that the Spirit of God is acting in the same 
way, constantly sending and constantly restraining. Where did 
William Carey first propose to go, when he marked out that map in 
his shop on sole leather, studying the geography of the world ? To a 
very insignificant point, and yet his heart was set on it, — Otaheite. 
But the Spirit said to William Carey that he must not go there. He 
was wanted in India, with his wonderful linguistic powers ; and he, 
India's first and greatest missionary, went to the home of ancient lan- 
guage and to the very center of that home. The Spirit would not let 
him go where he proposed to go. Where did Livingstone propose to 
go when he was studying divinity and medicine in Edinburgh ? His 
ambition was to be a medical missionary to China. But God said no : 
the Holy Spirit permitted him not to gp to China, because He wanted 
him to go to Africa, that there he might undertake the work of healing 
the open sore of the world. Where did Adoniram Judson propose to 
go ? His heart was set on India. He landed at Calcutta, but by the 
jealousy of the East India Company was not permitted to preach the 
Gospel there, and went to the Isle of France. But he went back, and 
once more attempted in India to preach the Gospel, and was again 
driven out to Rangoon. Why did the Holy Ghost send him to Ran- 
goon ? Because there was one tribe of the Karens who had a tradition 
that a white man should come and bring them back to God, and God 
wanted him among the Karens ; and he began his work, and now one- 
third of the Karens are nominal Christians. And not only are there 
Christians there of the most consecrated type, but two or three years 
ago we found that Massachusetts stood first in our contributions for 
missions, N"ew York second, the Karen Christians third. 

And only two years after this — this was in 1813, if I remember 
rightly — there was a man by the name of Shaw who went to South 
Africa that he might preach the Gospel in a chosen spot. Through 
the jealousy of the Dutch settlers he was not allowed to preach the 
Gospel. With an almost broken heart he took what money he had 
and bought a yoke of oxen and a new cart, and put his wife and 
his goods into the cart, and headed the cattle who drew it for 
the heart of Africa, not knowing whither they should go. You 
remember once the ark of God was put on a cart. He and his 
wife started for the interior, and journeyed 300 miles, a journey of 37 



15 

days, straight on. At the end of that time they camped near a com- 
pany of Hottentots, who sent over to inquire who they were. They 
made inquiry also as to who the Hottentots were, and found that they 
were a delegation sent by their people down to the coast to get a 
missionary, and they had found just the missionary they wanted. "If 
I had been half an hour earlier," he said, " or they half an hour later, 
we should not have met." And that after a journey of 300 miles into 
the heart of Africa ! Are not these illustrations of the Spirit of God 
saying go and go not. 

Then I take up that instance about which we speak with such 
gratitude and astonishment. I take you to a little hill overlooking a vast 
country, yet sunken in ignorance and spiritual death. It had been 
proposed to give up that mission because of its unproductiveness. But 
an old man went upon the hilltop where he could look down, and spent 
the day in prayer that the Lord would not allow the mission to be 
given up. That is one side of the story. Then a young man comes 
and asks to be sent to that field. He has not a theological education, 
and the committee hesitated about sending him. He had not the 
qualifications, it would seem, that would fit him for that special work. 
He said : " God's Spirit has called me to that particular field." He 
had been a civil engineer on the western prairies. After considerable 
deliberation they sent this young man to the field. Now how remark- 
able it is that the whole success of that young man turned upon the 
fact that he was a civil engineer ! There came on a great famine. 
Thousands were dying. He went to the government and said, " I am 
a civil engineer. I want the contract to construct a canal." It 
was given him. He sent out invitations : five thousand men came to 
work on this canal. Night after night he preached the Gospel to them, 
and to the relays of men who took their places at the work. And when 
the famine was ended they began to come from all directions, seeking 
baptism. You, who are familiar with that wonderful work among the 
Telugus, know the story, — how the first day they baptized they had 
two thousand converts, and before the year was out, ten thousand 
professing faith in Jesus Christ in that field that a little while before 
was about to be given up. 

O brethren, if we are under the sway of God's Spirit, how He 
places His workers, — puts one here, restrains one from going there ! 
It is His prerogative not only to send whom He will but to send them 
where He will. And if there is anything wanted in the Church of 
Christ to-day, in its great missionary affairs, it is a realization of the 
personal divine guidance of the Holy Ghost into the fields which God 
sees with His all-embracing and all-surveying eye. Jesus Christ was 
led of the Spirit. 



16 

Then we come to this statement in this same chapter : " And Jesus 
returned in the power of the Spirit." I pause upon this ; I bid you 
remember that this is the word which our Lord used : " Te shall 
receive power after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you." And I 
go back into Luke's Gospel and read : « Tarry ye in the city of Jeru- 
salem until ye be endued with power from on high." It is the source 
from which it springs that gives such mighty momentum to this power. 
The higher the head, the mightier the impetus-power from on high. 
I believe that, just as certain as wind is the power that drives ships, 
just as certain as water is the power that moves the ponderous wheels 
of the great manufactories on the Merrimac and Connecticut Rivers, 
just as surely as steam is the power that makes the mighty steamship 
plow the great deep, so explicitly, by divine appointment, the Lloly 
Ghost is the power that moves the Church. But if there is anything 
that needs to be dwelt upon at this present time, and emphasized, it is 
this fact ; because the Church of Jesus Christ is turning away from its 
true power, to rest upon paltry expedients to make the Gospel succeed, 
when God has ,put the power in the Church itself — power from on 
high. 

What was the one phrase with which Peter described the preach- 
ing of the Gospel ? '' We have preached the Gospel with the Holy 
Ghost sent down from heaven." He does not mention a single other 
fact about his preaching than that. And when I say " sent down from 
heaven " what do I mean ? Just as in your city here I see it to-night. 
I see cars vdthout any apparent motor. But I have only to look under 
the foundations of the street to see that beneath the street there is an 
endless chain moving back and forward all day long ; and what these 
cars have to do is simply to grip on to that power and be swept on. 
I believe it is exactly so with the Holy Ghost. It is an endless wire 
between heaven and earth, bringing down blessing, carrying up prayer ; 
bringing down the might of God, carrying up our confessions of weak- 
ness and inability ; bearing down the strength of God, moving ever- 
more. And what we, as believers and workers for Jesus Christ, need 
to do is to grip on to that power. We have not to beseech the Holy 
Ghost to do anything, but what is wanted is simply that we should 
grip to Him by faith. Now, Jesus Christ returned in the power of the 
Holy Ghost. 

Then, the last thing, we find Him going into the synagogue, taking 
down the prophecy of Isaiah and reading : " The Spirit of the Lord 
is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the Gospel to the 
poor ; he hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliver- 
ance to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at 
liberty them that are bruised, to preach the acceptable year of the 



17 

Lord." " The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed 
me," — in other words. He claims the fulfillment of this wonderful 
prophecy. He was anointed with the Holy Ghost, not for Himself 
alone, but for us. 

Now, if you turn to the one hundred and thirty-third Psalm, you 
will read these familiar words : " Behold how good and how pleasant 
it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. It is like the precious 
ointment upon the head that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron's 
beard ; that went down to the skii'ts of his garments." And what 
does the psalmist refer to ? You read in Exodus of that wonderfully 
compounded oil which men were forbidden to make, so sacred it was, 
and which was forbidden to be applied to any but Aaron and his sons, 
a symbol of the Holy Ghost, which is not to be bought with money, 
applied only to those whom God ordains for His work. And we are 
told how this was applied. When the leper was to be cleansed the 
oil was put on his right ear, his right thumb, and his right foot. But 
when Aaron was consecrated this oil was poured upon his head, and 
ran down upon his beard and his garments and his feet. Herein was 
a type of Christ. He was anointed not for Himself, but for others ; 
our true Aaron is up there. He is the one that is anointed not for 
HimseK, but for His whole Church ; and the Spirit poured upon His 
head runs down upon the whole body down to the latest generation, 
down to the last man that needs the gracious influence of the Spirit. 

Now, dear friends, this brings me to this practical thought, that all 
missionary success, at home or abroad, depends upon the Holy Ghost. 
I say it deliberately : the personal preparation of the Holy Spirit is 
the greatest need in our ministry in this country and in foreign fields. 
Here is a book that I think you will say when you glance at it that it 
looks as though it had been handled. I want to say that I have read 
that book more than any other book in all my library. If I have read 
it once I have read it twenty times. If ever I want spiritual quicken- 
ing I take down that book and read it. What is the history of that 
book ? It is a journal of an early missionary, David Brainerd. He 
kept it only for his own comfort or remembrance, as we would keep a 
daily journal. When he died, at thirty years of age, he asked Jona- 
than Edwards to destroy this journal, because he said it was sacred, 
and not to be seen by any other eyes but his. Edwards turned over 
the leaves and said: "The Church cannot spare that. In spite of 
ray half uttered pledge to him, I will take the responsibility to pub- 
lish it." 

It was that book that made Carey a missionary, that sent Heniy 
Martyn to Persia, and that led Murray McCheyne to consecrate him- 
self to the work of foreign missions ; that led Dr. Payson to cry out, 



18 

' Since I read that book, I have been a new man." Why is it a won- 
derful book ? It is the only book that I know of where you see the 
two things side by side, the closet and the field. There are the records 
of how the days were spent in prayer for the power of the Holy 
Ghost ; then the story of what was accomplished as he went out and 
preached to those barbarous Indians. I know nothing like it since the 
day of Pentecost. He preaches the Gospel to them, after these days 
spent with God, and these men literally fall like grass by the mower's 
scythe. Among all the many days he spent alone in the woods in 
prayer, of which he gives an account in his diary, there is scarcely an 
instance of one which was not either attended or soon followed with 
manifest blessings and outpouring of the Holy Spirit. 

Shortly before his death, he said to his brother : " We ministers 
feel these special gracious influences of the Spirit in our hearts ; and 
it wonderfully assists us to come at the consciences of men, and, as it 
were, to handle those consciences with hands ; whereas, without the 
influences of the Spirit, whatever reason and oratory we make use of, 
we do but make use of stumps instead of hands." These were the 
dying words of Brainerd : " Whatever else you fail of, do not fail of 
the influences of the Holy Spirit ; that is the only way you can handle 
the consciences of men." Oh, how precious is such an experience as 
that ! How much the Church owes to it ! I am sorry the American 
Tract Society has allowed that book to go out of print ; but it has 
been re-edited and published by Funk & Wagnalls* ; and if you want 
one book worth keeping by a missionary as long as he lives, don't fail 
to get this Life of David Brainerd. 

And so I might go on giving illustrations. I take this, which I 
read with great interest, from the journal of another eminent mission- 
ary of our own time. Rev. Grifiith John, of Hangkow, China. In a 
report of the recent Shanghai Conference he wiites, speaking of a 
certain date of his ministry in a native church : " Feeling my lack of 
spiritual power, I spent the whole of a Saturday in earnest prayer for 
a baptism of the Holy Ghost. On the following morning I preached 
on this subject. At the close of the service I proposed that we should 
meet for an hour on every day of the ensuing week to pray for the 
baptism of the Holy Ghost. From fifty to seventy native converts 
met day by day, confessing their sins, and pleading with tears for the 
outpouring of the Spirit upon their hearts. And the native church at 
Hangkow received an impulse from this week, the force of which con- 
tinues to this day. From that week the Holy Ghost became a living 
reality in that church. The whole tone and character of the church 



» See " List of Missionary Books," at end of this Report. 



19 

was changed from that week on." Now, why should I dwell longer 
upon these experiences, that confirm and illustrate the word of God? 

But, my friends, let me now bring this matter to a serious close. 
Professor Beck, of Tubingen, says, to a class of students : " Young 
men, listen to this word. Theology! Theology! Let me remind 
you that theology without the Holy Spirit is not only a cold stone, but 
absolute poison." Why is it that from many very exalted professorial 
chairs such poison is exhaling to-day, so that many minds are feeling 
it all over this country ? Why is it that this poison is emanating from 
the most learned theology of our times ? Before I answer that ques- 
tion I wUl ask and answer another : Why is it that in the last decade 
of this nineteenth century the Church of Jesus Christ exhibits such 
deplorable weakness, — that our daily papers are crowded with adver- 
tisements of what is to be done and carried on in our churches week 
after week to draw the people in ? Have we forgotten that there is a 
Holy Ghost, that we must insist upon walking upon crutches when we 
might fly ? What is our power in the Church ? Let us re-assert it ; 
we know what it is. As to theology, what does the word of God say? 
■■ For what man knoweth the things of a man save the spirit of man 
which is in him ? even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the 
Spirit of God." All the learning of the world will turn theology into 
poison if theology is not sanctified in its teaching by the Holy Ghost. 

When ttie great Methodist movement had taken place. Lady Hunt- 
ingdon proposed to endow a training school for ministers. Fletcher, 
of Madeley, was selected to preside over that school. One who studied 
under him says : " Fletcher was an admirable teacher. We had our 
Hebrew and our Greek and our theology. Then he would close the 
book and say : ' Young men, Hebrew, Greek, theology are very impor- 
tant. We have attended fully to these things for two hours. Now, 
those of you who want to seek the power of the Holy Ghost, follow 
me.' " And he would lead out that whole class into another room, 
where, says this pupil, " We would often stay for three hours wrestling 
in prayer for the Holy Ghost, after being told that all other learning 
was powerless without this." That is the secret of that movement. 
Most of the educated leaders in that movement had been preachers 
of the Gospel, some of them ten or fifteen years, utterly without 
power, until, under this great movement, the Spirit of God seized 
them and they became burning and shining lights. One of them said : 
" Ten years I had been preaching. I had spent vast time on my ser- 
mons, and yet they were powerless as stones thrown among the people. 
But when by contact with these brethren I learned the secret of the 
Holy Ghost, such a change came over me that I can only describe the 
difference between these two periods as the difference between shoot- 



20 

ing with a bow and shooting with a rifle. In the one case all the 
force of the arrow depends on the strength of the muscle ; but in the 
other case the power is in the force of the powder that is behind the 
ball, and it only requires the touch of the finger to liberate it. That 
is the difference between preaching with the Holy Ghost and with- 
out it." 

May God give us that which our hearts are moved to ask even 
now ! Let us go back to the experience of that admirable writer 
whom I quoted in the beginning. He says : " This promise is for 
us. It is right that we should claim it. It is proper that we should 
plead it now. It is right that we should look for the fulfillment of it 
immediately." How difficult to present such a theme ! God knows 
the very great difficulty I have in undertaking it. The Holy Spirit 
Himself must speak. But if after all that I have said the impression 
is left in your minds that you desire above all things else to have the 
power of the Holy Spirit resting upon you, may God lead you to seek 
that power to-night. 



SECOND DAY, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27. 

Morning Session. 

The devotional exercises were led by Miss Nettie Dunn, Interna- 
tional Secretary of the Young Women's Christian Association. The 
Report of the Executive Committee was then presented by Mr. John 
R. Mott. 

Report of the Executive Committee. 

As this is the first Convention of the Student Volunteer Movement 
for Foreign Missions, it seems best to review its history, and to set 
forth its present condition. 

I. ORIGIN OF THE MOVEMENT. 

In July, 1886, a memorable conference of college students was 
held at Mt. Hermon, Massachusetts. 251 young men from 89 colleges 
of the United States and Canada had come together, at the invitation 
of Mr. D. L. Moody, to spend four weeks in Bible study. Nearly two 
weeks passed before the subject of missions was even mentioned in the 
sessions of the Conference. But one of the young men from Prince- 
ton College had come, after weeks of prayer, with the deep conviction 
that God would call from that large gathering of college men, a few, at 
least, who would consecrate themselves to the foreign mission service. 
At an early day he called together all the young men who were think- 
ing seriously of spending their lives in the foreign field. 21 students 
answered to this call, although several of them had not definitely 
decided the question. This little group of consecrated men began to 
pray that the spirit of missions might pervade the Conference, and 
that the Lord would separate many men unto this great work. In a 
few days they were to see their faith rewarded far more than they had 
dared to claim. On the evening of July 16 a special mass meeting 
was held, at which Dr. Arthur T. Pierson gave a thrilling addi-ess on 
missions. He supported, by most convincing argument, the proposition 
that " all should go, and go to all." This was the key-note which set 
many men to thinking and praying. 

A week passed. On Saturday night, July 24, another meeting was 
held, which may occupy as significant a place in the history of the 
Christian Church as the Williams Hay Stack Meeting. It is known as 
the " meeting of the ten nations." It was addressed by sons of mis- 



22 

sionaries in China, India, Persia, and by seven young men of different 
nationalities — an Armenian, a Japanese, a Siamese, a German, a Dane, 
a Norwegian, and an American Indian. Tlie addresses were not more 
than three minutes in length, and consisted of appeals for more 
workers. Near the close, each speaker repeated in the language of his 
country the words, "God is Love." Then came a season of silent and 
audible prayer, which will never be forgotten by those present. The 
burning appeals of this meeting came with peculiar force to all. 

From this night on to the close of the Conference the missionary- 
interest became more and more intense. One by one the men, alone 
in the woods and rooms with theii- Bibles and God, fought out the 
battle with self, and were led by the Spirit to decide to forsake all, and 
carry the Gospel " unto the uttermost part of the earth." Dr. Ash- 
more, who had just returned from China, added fuel to the flame by 
his ringing appeal to Christians to look upon "missions as a war of 
conquest, and not as a mere wrecking expedition." 

Only eight days elapsed between the " meeting of the ten nations " 
and the closing session of the Conference. During that time the num- 
ber of volunteers increased from 21 to exactly 100 who signified that 
they were " willing and desirous, God permitting, to become foreign 
missionaries." Several of the remaining 151 delegates became volun- 
teers later, after months of study and prayer. 

II. EXTENSION. 

On the last day of the Conference the volunteers held a meeting, in 
which there was a unanimous expression that the missionary spiiit, which 
had manifested itself with such power at Mt. Hermon, should be com- 
municated in some way to thousands of students throughout the coun- 
try who had not been privileged to come in contact with it at its 
source. It was their conviction that the reasons which had led the 
Mt. Hermon hundred to decide would influence hundreds of other 
college men, if those reasons were once presented to them in a faithful, 
intelligent, and prayerful manner. Naturally, they thought of the 
" Cambridge Band " and its wonderful influence among the universi- 
ties of Great Britain, and decided to adopt a similar plan. Accord- 
ingly, a deputation of four students were selected to represent the Mt. 
Hermon Conference, and to visit during the year as many institutions 
as possible. Of the four selected, only one was able to undertake the 
mission, Mr. Robert P. Wilder, of Princeton College. Mr. John N. 
Forman, a graduate of the same institution, was induced to join Mr. 
Wilder in his tour. 

During the year 167 institutions were visited. They touched many 
of the leading colleges and seminaries in the United States and 



23 

Canada. Sometimes they would visit a college together ; again, in 
order to reach more institutions, they would separate. Wherever they 
went their straightforward, forcible, scriptural presentation came with 
convincing power to the minds and hearts of the students. In some 
colleges as many as sixty volunteers were secured. Not an institution 
was visited in which they did not quicken the missionary interest. By 
the close of the year 2,200 young men and women had taken the 
volunteer pledge. 

During the college year 1887-88 the Movement was left without 
any particular leadership and oversight. Notwithstanding this fact, 
over 600 new volunteers were added during the year, very largely the 
result of the personal work of the old volunteers. 

In the follo'WT.ng year, 1888-89, Mr. Wilder, on his second tour, 
enrolled 600 volunteers in 93 institutions. At least 25 of these institu- 
tions had not been touched previously by the Movement. 

Mr. R. E. Speer, also a graduate of Princeton, during the year 
1889-90 visited 110 institution, adding 1,100 volunteers to the Move- 
ment. He reached many new institutions, especially in the South and 
Southeast. 

Thus far in the year 1890-91 Mr. W. H. Cossum, of Colgate Uni- 
versity, has added nearly 300 to the roll of volunteers, and has ex- 
tended the movement to the Maritime Provinces. Miss Lucy E. Guin- 
ness, of London, Eng., has spent nearly three months among the 
women of oui- colleges. The outcome of her work was at least 285 
volunteers. Other volunteers have added several hundreds to those 
secui-ed by regular workers. The number of names on the volunteer 
roll now stands at 6,200, scattered throughout the United States and 
Canada in 350 institutions. 

III. OEGANIZATIOX. 

About 50 volunteers came together at the Northfield Conference in 
July, 1888, to pray and plan for the Movement. When the reports 
were presented, showing the condition of the Movement in all parts of 
the country, it was found that three dangerous tendencies were begin- 
ning to manifest themselves : (1) A tendency in the Movement at some 
points to lose its unity. All sorts of missionary societies and bands — 
with different purposes, methods of work, and forms of pledge and con- 
stitution — were springing up. It was plain that it would lose much of 
its power should its unity be destroyed. (2) A tendency to a decline 
in some colleges. Because not properly guarded and developed, some 
bands of volunteeers had grown cold. (3) A tendency to conflict with 
existing agencies appeared in a very few places. All of these tenden- 
cies were decidedly out of harmony with the original spu-it and purpose 



24 

of the Volunteer Movement ; accordingly, the volunteers at lirorthfield 
decided that immediate steps should be taken toward a wise organi- 
zation. 

Another consideration helped to influence them in this decision, and 
that was a desire to extend the Movement. Not more than one-fifth 
of the higher educational institutions of America had been touched 
thus far. 

A committee was appointed to organize the Volunteer Movement. 
That committee, after long and prayerful consideration, decided that 
the Movement should be confined to students. It was therefore named 
the Student Volunteer Movement for Foreign Missions. It was also 
noted that practically all of the volunteers were members of some one 
of the three great inter-denominational student organizations ; namely, 
the College Young Men's Christian Association, the College Young 
"Women's Christian Association, and the Inter- Seminary Missionary 
AlUance. This suggested the plan of placing at the head of the Move- 
ment a permanent Executive Committee of three, one to be appointed 
by each of the three organizations, which should have power to develop 
and facilitate the Movement in harmony with the spirit and constitu- 
tions of these three organizations. The plan was first submitted to the 
College Committee of the International Committee of the Young Men's 
Christian Association, and was heartily approved. They appointed as 
their representative Mr. J. R. Mott. The plan was also fully approved 
by the International Committee of the Young Women's Christian Asso- 
ciation, and Miss Nettie Dunn was chosen to represent them. The 
Executive Committee of the Inter- Seminary Missionary Alliance en- 
dorsed the plan, and named Mr. Wilder as their representative. The 
Canadian Intercollegiate Missionary Alliance, which includes some 
institutions not connected with the above three student organizations, 
has also authorized Mr. Wilder to represent them. 

The new Executive Committee began its work in January, 1889. 
They soon perfected a plan of organization which has commended itself 
to leading men of the different denominations to whom it has been sub- 
mitted. The plan of organization may be briefly outlined, as follows : — 

1 . The Executive Committee (described above) has general super- 
vision and direction of the Movement. It has met on an average of 
once each month. 

2. The Committee has three regular secretaries : Traveling, Cor- 
responding, and Editorial. 

(a) The work of the Traveling Secretaiy consists in organizing, 
educating, developing, quickening, and setting at work the volunteers 
in the different institutions ; and in extending the Movement not only 
among previously visited institutions, but also among those as yet 



25 

untouched. The first Traveling Secretary appointed by the Committee 
was Mr. R. E. Speer, who held the position for one year. Mr. W. H. 
Cossum holds this ofiice at present. During a part of this year Miss 
Lucy E. Guinness traveled in the interest of the Movement. 

(b) The Corresponding Secretary has charge of all the office work 
of the Movement. He also acts as Treasurer. The work of the office 
embraces the enrollment and classification of volunteers, the tabulation 
of statistics, the distribution of printed matter, and an extensive cor- 
respondence with several hundred institutions. Mr. William H. Han- 
num held this position until shortly before he sailed for India in 1890. 
Since then Mr. Walter J. Clark has filled this office. 

(c) The Editorial Secretary aims to keep the Movement before the 
churches and the volunteers. He corresponds regularly -with the 
Missionary Review of the Worlds The Intercollegian, The Evangel, 
and Tlie Missionary Echo. Occasional articles are sent to the denom- 
inational papers. Messrs. R. S. Miller, Jr., and E. W. Rand have each 
held the position. Mr. Max Wood Moorhead now occupies it. 

3. There is an Advisory Committee, composed at present of the 
following : Rev. Geo. Alexander, D.D., Bishop M. S. Baldwin, D.D., 
Miss Abbie B. Child, Pres. Merrill E. Gates, Rev. A. J. Gordon, D.D., 
Rev. A. T. Pierson, D.D. The Executive Committee is to confer with 
them about every important step in the development of the Movement, 
in order that nothing may be done which shall justify unfavorable 
criticism. 

4. The Executive Committee, through their Traveling Secretary, 
are unable to touch more than one-fifth of the colleges and theological 
seminaries during the year. They therefore aim to have a Correspond- 
ing Member in every State and Province in which the extent and 
condition of the Movement demand it. This Corresponding Member 
carries out their policy ; namely, to conserve and extend the Movement 
in that State or Province. In States where it is thought to be advisable 
there is a Corresponding Committee instead of a Corresponding Mem- 
ber. The following States have Corresponding Members : Maine, 
Southern New England, New Jersey, Virginia, North Carolina, Ohio, 
Michigan, Wisconsin, and Missouri. In New York and Illinois there 
is a Corresponding Committee. 

5. In each institution the volunteers are united in what is known 
as the Volunteer Band. In the colleges this is organized as the Mis- 
sionary Department of the College Association. In theological semi- 
naries the Band is made a part of the regular missionary society. 
These Bands hold regular meetings for prayer and for systematic study 
of missions. Moreover, they seek to spread missionary intelligence, to 
secure new volunteers, to kindle missionary spirit in churches and 



26 

young people's societies, and to stimulate intelligent and systematic 
giving to the cause of missions. 

IV. ACHIEVEMENTS. 

The Holy Spirit has worked mightily both in and through this 
Movement during its short history of less than five years. Among the 
many things which have been accomplished under His guidance and in 
His strength, we gratefully record the following : — 

1. Fully 6,000 young men and women have been led to take the 
advanced step of consecration expressed in these words: "We are 
willing and desirous, God permitting, to become foreign missionaries." 
It is firmly beUeved that this step has been taken conscientiously and 
intelligently in the vast majority of cases. Well may Dr. McCosh ask : 
"Has any such offering of living young men and women been pre- 
sented in our age, in our country, in any age, or in any country, since 
the day of Pentecost?" 

2. At least 320 of these volunteers have already gone to the for- 
eign field under the various missionary agencies. A noted foreign 
missionary recently said that not more than two per cent, of those who 
volunteered in a missionary revival ever sailed. But already over five 
per cent, of the members of this Movement have sailed ; and fully ten 
per cent, of the Canadian contingent. A very large majority of the 
volunteers are still in the various stages of preparation. 

3. This Movement has promoted the plan for colleges and theo- 
logical seminaries to support their own missionaries under their respec- 
tive Boards. At least 40 colleges and 32 seminaries have adopted the 
plan either wholly or in part, and in a majority of cases are pushing it 
with a high degree of success. It is estimated that at least $30,000 
have been contributed within the last two years by institutions over 
and above what they were previously giving. 

4. It may be truthfully said that the Volunteer Movement has 
done more than all other agencies combined to emphasize the idea that 
each church should support its own missionary. Volunteers have 
elaborated the plan, and have also printed and circulated a pamphlet 
clearly setting it forth. Moreover, they have actually introduced it in 
many churches of different denominations with the most gratifying 
results. A large number of strong testimonials have been collected. 
The following, given by the secretaries of the Foreign Mission Board 
of the Presbyterian Church, U. S. A., is a striking recognition of the 
importance of this work : — 

We have before us a long list of testimonials from pastors who have ti-ied 
the experiment with most gratifying results ; and we are assured that if this 
method should become general throughout the churches, it would mark a new 



27 

era of progress in foreign missions, while, by its reflex influence at home, it 
would bring one of the greatest blessings that the Church has experienced in 
a generation. * * * We gladly recognize the influence which has been 
exerted along these lines by the Student Volunteer Movement in our colleges 
and theological seminaries. * * * And we recognize, with equal clearness 
and satisfaction, the large part which this Movement has had in arousing 
Churches, Young Men's Christian Associations, Christian Endeavor Societies, 
etc., to a new interest and to a more adequate contribution of means. * * * 
The interest which they (the volunteers) create and the funds which they raise 
are a clear gain. » * * 

So far as Presbyterian churches are concerned, we most heartily commend 
the work. 

F. F. Ellinwood, 
Arthur Mitchell, 
Jno. Gillespib, 

Secretaries. 

William Dulles, Jr., Treasurer. 
New ¥ork, Nov. 6, 1890. 

5. By means of this Movement, missionary intelligence, enthusi- 
asm, and consecration, have been carried into over 200 colleges on this 
continent in which there was comparatively no interest in missions five 
years ago. It has made the missionary department of the College 
Young Men's and Young Women's Christian Associations one of the 
most advanced and influential departments in their entire scheme of 
work. At least one-fifth of the officers of these associations are vol- 
unteers. Moreover, it should not be forgotten that every volunteer 
won means more than simply one missionary. He stands for a large 
constituency who are interested in the work because he goes. Who 
can measure the importance of thus enlisting the intelligent sympathy 
and co-operation of thousands who are to remain at home in the great 
missionary operations of the Church ? 

6. The missionary interest has been intensified in the theological 
seminaries. Exhaustive study of the seminary problem has been 
made, and invaluable statistics have been compiled. These show that 
the number of prospective missionaries has been greatly increased dur- 
ing the past few years over any previous period. Over eleven per 
cent, of the under-graduates have volunteered for foreign service. The 
amount of money contributed has been more than trebled ; and a more 
comprehensive study of missions is being undertaken by seminary men. 
During the past year, especially, the Movement has endeavored to 
strengthen the missionary spirit in divinity schools by recommending 
the formation of five District Alliances, and the inauguration of depu- 
tation work. The American Inter- Seminary Missionary Alliance, at 
its last convention (October, 1890), passed resolutions favoring our 
recommendations. Many seminary volunteers have been led to urge 
systematically upon home churches a more intelligent interest in mis- 



28 

sions, and far more generous contributions. It is also a striking fact 
that the men in these seminaries who are to enter the home pastorate 
are realizing, as never before, their special responsibility to the world 
field. 

7. The success of the Volunteer Movement in the United States 
and Canada has been so marked that its influence has already been 
strongly felt in British and Continental universities through the repre- 
sentatives of these institutions who have come from year to year to the 
intercollegiate meetings at ISTorthfield. 

8. Taking as its key-note the evangelization of the world in this 
generation, the Movement has emphasized the apostolic idea, so that 
thousands of Christians have realized its significance as never before. 
They not only find it suggested throughout the New Testament, but 
also hear it from the lips of missionaries of all evangelical denomina- 
tions to-day. The volunteers ask the question : If they at the front 
bearing the brunt of the conflict sound the battle-cry, ought not we to 
re-echo it with equal conviction and enthusiasm ? 

V. PEESENT STATUS. 

During the past six months an extensive correspondence has been 
instituted with the volunteers for the purpose of receiving information 
for statistics. A large proportion of the volunteers have responded, 
and the following figures are based upon the returns, and are consid- 
ered safe estimates. 

1. Distribution of volunteers, according to section where enrolled : 



Canada 






335 


New Brunswick 


10 


Nova Scotia . 


25 


Ontario 


210 


Quebec 


90 


New En-gland States 






570 


Connecticut 


100 


Maine 


65 


Massachusetts 


340 


New Hampshire 


25 


Rhode Island 


25 


Vermont 


15 


Middle Atlantic States 






. . 1260 


Maryland 


50 


New Jersey . 


. 340 


New York 


560 


Pennsylvania 


310 


SoiTTHBEN States 






695 


Georgia 


. 20 


Kentucky 


150 


North Carolina 


. 70 


South Carolina 


. 30 


Tennessee . ... 


140 


Texas 


15 


Virginia .... 


, 240 


West Virginia 


30 



29 



Central States . 






. . . 1975 


Illinois 


. . 600 


Indiana .... 


. . 175 


Michigan . . . 


340 


Ohio 


. . 660 


Wisconsin 


. 200 




Western States 






. 1365 


Iowa 


. 375 


Kansas 


, . 375 


Minnesota 


175 


Missouri 


. 275 


Nebraska 


150 


South Dakota 


. . 15 



Total number of volunteers .... 6,200 

2. Distribution of volunteers according to stages of preparation : 

(1 ) In institutions of learning . .... . . 2600 

' Academies] 500 Colleges . 1200 

Normal Schools 175 Medical Colleges . 125 

Theological Seminaries,500 Training Schools . 100 

(2) Out of institutions (owing to state of health, insufficient 

means, etc.) . 700 

(3) Graduates (post graduates, special students, etc.) 600 

(4) Ready to go . . 100 

(5) Appointed (not including class of 1891) 20 

(6) Hindered . . . 250 

(7) Unknown (large majority of these lost trace of before the 

Movement was organized) . 450 

(8) Rejected by Boards . . 50 

(9) Renounced 450 

(10) Deceased . . 60 

(11) Sailed . 320 

(12) Not students when enrolled 600 

3. Distribution of volunteers according to age : 

Under 20 years 14 per cent. 

Over 20 years and under 25 years 46 " 

Over 25 years and under 30 years 20 " 

Over 30 years 11 « 

4. Distribution of volunteers according to sex : 

Male, 4,340 . .... 70 per cent. 

Female, 1,860 . . 30 " 



30 
6. Distribution of volunteers according to denomination : 



Presbyterian 








27 per ( 


Methodist 








24 




Baptist . 








17 




Congregational 








17 




Lutheran . 








3 




Episcopal . 








2 




Friends 








H 




Other denominations 








H 




6. Distribution of volunteers who have sailed according 


to fields 


Apkica 












East Africa 


2 


I^orth Africa 






2 


South Africa 


3 


West Africa 






22 


Unlocated 






4 






Asia 












Arabia . 


1 


Burmah 






18 


China 


69 


Corea 






7 


India 


49 


Japan 






46 


Persia 


. 9 


Siam and Laos 






7 


Syria 


8 


Turkey . 






15 


Europe 












Bulgaria 


4 


Italy . 






1 


IvToETH Ambeica 












Central America 


2 


Mexico . 






11 


South America 












Brazil 


10 


ChiU . . 






1 



33 



229 



13 

12 
i. . . . 1 

United States of Columbia 1 

South Sea Islands . . 6 

Miscellaneous . . 7 

Location not Dbeinitblt Known 16 

Total 321 

VI. financial statement. 

During the first three years the expenses were borne entirely by a 
friend of the Movement. Since then $4,852 have been received from 
individuals, parlor conferences. Young Men's Christian Associations, 
churches, and from the sale of volunteer pamphlets. Of these amounts, 
$4,651 have been expended. This includes the expenses of Traveling, 
Corresponding, and Editorial Secretaries, printing, office furniture, etc. 



31 

There are at present $201 in the treasury. Since the inception of this 
Movement no salaries have been paid. Over 110,000 would have been 
expended in salaries had the secretaries of the Committee received what 
is usually paid to men of their ability. $3,000 at the lowest estimate 
will be needed during the coming year to meet the increasing demands 
made upon the Committee by the growth of the Movement. 

VII. POLICY. 

The Executive Committee have marked out the following policy, 
concerning which they invite the friendly criticism and counsel, and 
the earnest prayers of the members of this Convention : — 

1. This Movement seeks to enroll volunteers in sufficient numbers 
to meet all the demands made upon it by the different missionary 
agencies of the day ; and, more than that, sufficient to make possible 
the evangelization of the world in this generation. 

2. The Movement should be judiciously extended to those institu- 
tions which have not yet felt its touch. Among them we would espe- 
cially note the colleges of the, South and Southwest, the colleges of 
Colorado and the Pacific Slope, and the medical schools of our great 
cities. 

3. It is our duty to guard and develop the volunteers as long as 
they are connected with our institutions. To this end there must be 
more and better State organizations ; more studying, praying, and 
working on the part of Volunteer Bands ; closer ties established between 
the volunteers and their respective church boards. Recognizing the 
importance and critical position held by the theological seminaries, it is 
urgent that far more attention be given to establishing and developing 
the Movement in them. The Executive Committee realize the futility 
of securing volunteers in colleges unless we succeed in holding them in 
theological seminaries, because a large number of them must pass 
through divinity schools prior to sailing. No one can overestimate the 
importance of influencing the divinity men who are to become the lead- 
ers of the Church at home and abroad. 

4. It is our aim to do all within our power to assist the missionary 
societies and boards in securing candidates, in raising money, and in 
other ways suggested to us. To better accomplish this, it is j^roposed 
to come into more intimate and frequent contact with the secretaries 
of the societies. We shall also try to induce many more capable vol- 
unteers to work among the churches during their vacations. Wherever 
possible,— in colleges, seminaries, churches, young people's societies, — 
we shall continue to urge the introduction of the plan for supporting 
their own missionary. 



32 

5. Recognizing the wonderful possibilities of the various young 
people's societies of the day, the Volunteer Movement shall seek to 
spread the missionary spirit among them. It is believed that these two 
movements are destined to sustain a very important relation to each 
other. 

6. During the coming year the Committee proposes to employ a 
Corresponding Secretary who shall give his entire time to the work 
which centers at the office. This office will, to a limited extent, at 
least, become a clearing house between the volunteers and the societies. 
A bureau of information will be established. The best missionary 
books, tracts, periodicals, maps, and charts will also be supplied to 
volunteers at cost. It shall be our endeavor to introduce a missionary 
library into every institution where there are volunteers. Additions 
will be made to the volunteer series of pamphlets as occasion demands. 

7. Invitation has repeatedly come to the Committee from students 
in Great Britain and Scandinavia, requesting us to send a representa- 
tive to introduce and organize the Movement among their universities. 
It is hoped that during the present year we shall be able to enter this 
most important door. If the students of the Protestant world are 
linked together by the power of the Spirit in this Movement, it will 
greatly hasten the establishment of Christ's Kingdom throughout the 
world. 

John R. Mott, intebcollegiatb t. m. c. a. 
Miss Nettie Dunk, intercollegiate y. w. c. a. 

R. P. Wilder, American Intek-Sem. Miss. Alliance, and 
Canadian iNTERcoLLEaiATE Missionary Alliaijce. 

Executive Committee. 



33 

After the announcement of the committees of the Convention by 
the moderator, Mr. Robert P. Wilder spoke upon "The Volunteer 
Pledge," using the arguments for its existence and the continuance of 
its use which are found in his pamphlet upon that subject, issued in 
Student Volunteer Series, No. 3. Mr. Wilder then led in the dis- 
cussion. 

Question. What does renouncing the pledge mean ? 

Answer. It cannot be applied to those who are providentially pre- 
vented from becoming foreign missionaries. If God does not permit 
their going they are exempt, for the pledge reads, " We are willing 
and desirous, God permitting,^'' etc. It should be applied to those 
who, though having no valid excuse for remaining in America, have 
renounced all thoughts of becoming foreign missionaries. 

What is a valid excuse ? This must be settled by each volunteer 
with God. But if after prayer he be convinced of his unfitness to go, 
he owes it to himself and to the Student Volunteer Movement for 
Foreign Missions that this unfitness be demonstrated; otherwise, he 
will be regarded as one who, "having put his hand to the plough," has 
looked back. To avoid the appearance of evil, he should apply to the 
Board of Foreign Missions of some evangelical denomination. The 
examination of candidates by these Boards is most thorough. One 
unqualified for the work rarely, if ever, passes muster, since the re- 
quirements are most rigid. The candidate need not fear confiding in 
the secretaries, who can appreciate heart as well as head difficulties. 
If, after squarely facing the issue, the Board reject him, he is exempt 
before our Movement, since the Student Volunteer Movement for 
Foreign Missions co-operates with the missionary societies, and abides 
by their decision. But such exemption by no means proves that he is 
exempt before God. Missionary organizations are fallible. One of 
Africa's best missionaries was rejected by three Boards. like William 
Carey, he felt, " Go I must, or guilt will rest on my soul." 

As long as a volunteer purposes applying eventually to some For- 
eign Missionary Board, we keep his name on our list ; but if he has 
not applied to any society, and does not intend to do so, we must 
regard him as no longer a volunteer. We must erase his name, lest 
by continuing in our ranks he imperil the steadfastness of others. 
" What man is fearful and faint hearted ? Let him go and return unto 
his house, lest his brethren's heart faint as well as his heart." 

Q. How would you deal with a man who thinks that he is not 
called to the foreign field ? 

A. I should tell him that there is nothing in the Bible to indicate 
that a man needs more of a call to take him to Africa than to Dakota. 
" The field is the worW There are no boundary lines in our work. 



34 

If a man can labor in Texas without a " special call," is it right to 
oppose his crossing the Rio Grande into Mexico unless he receives a 
" special call " ? 

Q. What course would you take with a man whose desire to go 
abroad is not as great as when he first signed the pledge ? 

A. Fu-st, pray for him. Second, set him on fire with the facts. 
One says : " If disciples do not wish to flame with missionary zeal, 
they must avoid contact and converse with the facts and the heroic 
souls who are the living factors of missions. It is dangerous business 
to trifle with the combustible material, unless you are quite sure that 
there is not even a spark of life or love in your soul." 

Q. Could not the pledge be made stronger by changing its 
wording ? 

A. (From Mr. Wilder by another question). How change it? 

A. By substituting the word " purpose " for the word " desirous." 

A. (Mr. Wilder). I think that the word "desirous" should be 
kept for the following reasons : 

1. Because it harmonizes with the central thought of our Move- 
ment — the thought expressed in the word " volunteer." We want no 
drafted troops, but men whose hearts stir them up. There is a true 
ring about the word " desire." It implies eagerness. It means, " To 
long for the enjoyment or possession of ; to feel the want of ; to wish ; 
to mourn the loss of." 

A drafted soldier may " purpose " to enter the field without having 
any eagerness to do so. But there is a warmth, a glow, an element of 
spontaneity about the word " desire." " Purpose " is purely a matter of 
the will. " Desire " is a matter of will and heart. 

Definition of the noun desire : " The natural longing that is excited 
by the enjoyment or thought of any good, and impels to action or 
effort for its continuance or possession." 

2. The home contingent of hindered volunteers can truthfully 
keep the pledge as it now reads. They are still wilUng and desirous 
to go to the foreign field. Can they say we purpose going if their path 
is absolutely blocked ? 

These hindered volunteers can be of great service to our Movement 
as missionary pastors and workers at home. It is essential that we 
keep their names on our list of volunteers. We need their sympathy 
and help. 

The present pledge is applicable to both classes of volunteers. We 
cannot have one pledge for the hindered and another for those who are 
going abroad ; the existence of two pledges would obviously invalidate 
the unity of the Movement. 

3. Substituting the word " purpose," even though the pledge seem 
more rigid in statement, it would not be more rigid in spirit. The 



35 

pledge as it now reads means only one thing ; that is, a determination 
to go, God mlling. What else can it mean ? If it be misunderstood 
by the signer, the fault lies with him, or the one who uses the pledge. 

4. The word " desire " is approved by many outsiders whom " pur- 
pose " might alienate. It is necessary for our field Secretary to gain 
an entrance to institutions of learning. Often the mere mention of a 
pledge has led teachers to shake their heads. I remember a ladies' 
seminary where the principal would not allow our pledge to be pre- 
sented. In a college there was a strong objection to the pledge be- 
cause of its binding character (little thought had I then that any 
one would regard the pledge as too weak). In a leading theological 
seminary I was notified by the faculty that they did not wish me to 
pass the pledge. If we make the wording more rigid in appearance, 
still greater opposition would be met, and the doors of some institu- 
tions would be shut in our faces. 

5. I do not believe that the suggested change would enable the 
pledge to hold any more of our wavering volunteers than the present 
pledge is holding. If men want to renounce their expressed determin- 
ation to become foreign missionaries the words " God permitting " will 
furnish them an avenue for escape. The word " desirous " does not 
present as large a loop-hole as " God permitting." 

Mr. Wilder then closed the discussion with the following argu- 
ments against any alteration of the pledge : — 

1. Historical argument. The pledge in its present form is signed 
by 6,000 volunteers. 

2. The present pledge is satisfactory. Whatever defection there 
is is very small. A noted foreign missionary said that not more than 
two per cent, of those who volunteered in a missionary revival ever 
saUed. But five per cent, of the members of our Movement in the 
United States have already sailed, and ten per cent, of the Canadian 
volunteers. Most of the defection has been due to the fact that the 
Student Volunteer Movement was not thoroughly organized during 
the first two years and a half of its existence. During those years the 
same efforts were not made to conserve the interest of volunteers as 
are now being made. 

3. Changing the pledge would necessitate losing our hold upon 
the signers of the present pledge. Let us suppose that " purpose " is 
substituted for " desirous." If the word " purpose " means the same 
thing as " desirous," what is the reason for a change in the wording ? 
If the two words are not synonymous, using " purpose " for " desir- 
ous " means that the new pledge has no claims upon the 6,000 who 
signed the old pledge. 



36 

Who shall sign the pledge ? 

1. All theological students who desire to sign it, since they are 
taking a course of study expected to prepare them for service at home 
or abroad. 

2. In colleges the active members of the Young Women's Chris- 
tian Association and the Young Men's Christian Association may sign. 
The various departments of Association work furnish the training 
needed by candidates for foreign service. If a student be faithful in 
studying the Bible and missions, in personal and neighborhood work, 
you need not hesitate to let him volunteer. But do not allow those 
who are not Association members to sign until you are convinced of 
their fitness to take this step. 

3. In educational institutions where there are no Young Men's or 
Young Women's Christian Associations, also in churches, do not per- 
mit any to sign until you are satisfied that they possess the requisite 
qualifications for foreign service. 

Mr. Walter J. Clark, Corresponding Secretary of the Student 
Volunteer Movement for Foreign Missions, introduced the discussion 
of the topic — 

The Classification of Volunteers. 

From the inception of the Movement there has been occasion for 
classification of volunteers. Only a few weeks after the Movement 
began, letters began coming to the leaders of the Movement stating 
that the persons who had signed for various reasons felt that they 
must renounce their pledge. Because of the unorganized condition of 
the Movement during the first two years and a half, and the great 
pressure of work that fell upon the Traveling Secretary, it was im- 
possible to keep a thorough record of these communications. In the 
past two years an effort has been made to classify the correspondence 
and to follow the requests received. The results have been presented 
to you this morning in the report of the Executive Committee ; and 
that we may thoroughly understand what these twelve classes indicate, 
it has seemed best that I should explain them in a few words. 

It was customary until recently to make only two classes of volun- 
teers — those who intend to go, and those who have renounced. But 
it became evident from the large correspondence that came to the 
ofiSce that there were many detained at home who had a strong pur- 
pose to go to the foreign field, and whose hearts were in the work. 
These we could not say had renounced, and their co-operation was 
very essential to us as a Movement, and we could not cut them off. 
This classification has been prepared that we may have a view of the 
present condition of the Volunteer Movement. 



37 

The first class embraces all who at present are pursuing their regu- 
lar courses of study. We find this number to be about 2,600, distributed 
among the following institutions in about the number given here : 
in academies, 500 ; in normal schools, 175 ; in colleges and universities, 
1,200 ; medical colleges, 125 ; theological seminaries, 500 ; training 
schools of various kinds, 100. 

Those who are connected with our normal schools, are expected in 
some States to teach for two years after they have received their edu- 
cation. And others who are supporting themselves must be absent, at 
least for a time, to secure the means for their education. And so at 
present there are out of school, of those who intend to finish their edu- 
cation, but for various reasons are compelled to absent themselves, at 
least 700. 

The next class is composed of graduates. Here we classify those 
who have finished their course of study but are uncertain as to their 
professional course, and those who are taking special professional 
courses as post graduates. The class of graduates amounts at present 
to 600. The number of those who are ready to go, but have not yet 
received their appointment, is about 100. 

The next class contains only 20. It consists of those who have 
been appointed a year or more, and does not include those who are in 
theological or medical schools and who have received appointments and 
wiU sail in the coming summer. 

Passing over the class of "hindered," we come to another class, 
"unknown" — those of whom we' have lost all trace. The records 
were not kept for over two years, and as students are somewhat migra- 
tory, it has been difficult to find all of the earlier volunteers. And so 
we have about 450 names in this class. About 50 have been rejected 
by Boards on account of ill health and for other reasons. We classify 
as " renounced " every individual who has signed the pledge but has 
willfully given up his intention to become a foreign missionary. In 
some cases religious convictions have been surrendered. This class 
embraces about 450. Those whom God has taken to Himself for His 
work above number at least 60 : we have 56 names. Those who have 
reached the foreign field have been repeatedly mentioned. They num- 
ber at least 320. When our Traveling Secretaries have addressed 
audiences of students, there have often been persons in the audience 
who were not students, and so there has been an enrollment of at least 
600 of this class. 

I return to the class omitted — "hindered volunteers." First, who 
are the volunteers ? Those who intend to go to the foreign field, God 
permitting. Hindered volunteers are those who have had their way 
blocked by providential circumstances. These must serve as a reserve 



38 

corps of the Volunteer Movement. They cannot come to the front, 
but still in the rear they can provide the means and the prayer that will 
bear on this work. The circumstances which hinder volunteers are 
often of a private character. The difficulty of dealing in correspond- 
ence with persons to whom I am an entire stranger — the difficulty of 
gathering from their letters just what they mean, unless they are very 
explicit as to their hinderances, has made this class a little indefinite. 
Yet I believe there are scores of them who are in such poor health that 
they cannot go. There are others who have the support of parents and 
dependent brothers and sisters, and who for the present cannot go. 

Now, what is their relation to the Volunteer Movement. They are 
first a part of it. We cannot cut them off : we cut off the renounced, 
though we keep their names for om- own good, as well as hoping that 
some day they may change their minds. The hindered volunteers are 
a part of the Movement, and we must keep them as such. Their rela- 
tion to the Movement is a vital one ; because they are to advance the 
Movement in their way and in their place. 

Let me indicate four things they can do to help the Movement. 
1. They can go when the Lord opens the door. I know many a volunteer 
who has written to me saying, " the Lord has blocked the way, it is 
impossible for me to go ; " and yet, in some instances, the Lord has in 
a few weeks removed the obstruction, and made possible the departure 
of the volunteer by so severe a trial as the death of a friend. 2. They 
can send others. It has been pointed out to you this morning the 
influence which one who has set his face to the foreign field can wield 
m getting others to go. 3. He can interest others in the work. The 
amount of ignorance in our churches, among the young people and 
older people, is enormous. 4. He can offer prayer constantly for 
those who have sailed and those who are preparing. 

Mr. Richard C. Morse, of New York City : — 

I was asked to say something upon this subject, and it occurs to 
me to state first, concerning the hindered volunteer, that there are 
some of these hindered volunteers, as Mr. Clark has said, who go. 
Mr. Forman was a hindered volunteer for a year, — hindered in the 
best interests of the foreign mission work. Mr. Wilder is a hindered 
volunteer. There are hindered volunteers that either have gone or 
are very sure to go, and whose detention has been due to the very best 
interests of the foreign mission work itself. Mr. Wishard was a hin- 
dered volunteer. Thirteen, years ago he came to me ready to go to 
South America, to form with some of his classmates a band of mission- 
aries there. But he felt that in the college department of the Young 
Men's Christian Association he could serve his Master upon the foreign 
field. And I was in familiar intercourse with him when he became 



39 

represented on that field by at least a score of men, and before he 
went to labor in the land which he loves so well. 

Now, the hindered volunteer can do just as much as the unhin- 
dered while they are together here, and we want to conserve that 
element. I believe that in the last 50 years the hindered volunteers 
have been a potential element in the sustentation and carrying on of 
the foreign mission movement as it stands to-day. Thousands of the 
men rescued in the name of Christ on the foreign field owe that rescue 
as much to the prayers and efforts of hindered volunteers in this coun- 
try during the last 50 years as to some of the men who have gone 
on the field. The hindered volunteer has an immense work that he 
can do in keeping the conscience of the Church right on this subject 
at home, for that is a most important thing, a most necessary, essential, 
fundamental thing in connection vsdth this Movement. 

Robert E. Speer, of Princeton Theological Seminary, then ad- 
di-essed the Convention upon the topic of — 

The Voluntebe Life in the Individual Institutions. 

I think we all believe in the reality of this volunteer life, both 
from the nature of the work and from observation of the volunteers. 
I presume there is one question that arises in our minds as we begin 
to think about this subject, and that is, as to the relation between the 
volunteer life, as we call it, and the Christian life of the institution. It 
seems to me that the relation is just this : that the volunteer life 
should be the Christian life ; that the first work of the volunteer in 
each institution is not with regard to foreign missions, is not to arouse 
interest in foreign missions in the Church outside, but is earnestly to 
claim each student in his institution for Jesus Christ. And so the 
volunteer life, when we speak of it as a whole, is not so much a life 
lived with regard to the foreign field as with regard to the community 
in which it finds itself placed. The volunteer life in each institution 
should be relatively what that volunteer life should be when it is put 
on the foreign field. 

In addition to living the real Christian life before his fellows, the 
volunteer should strive, feo far as he has any time apart from general 
Christian work, to make his life tell on the great work in all the world. 

Now, just a word about the expression of this volunteer life. It 
seems to me that of course it will be twofold : Fii-st, in the life of 
every individual volunteer. He should be above everything else the 
best Christian in his institution. He should be the best personal 
worker, the best Bible student ; as far as possible, the best student in 
every way to be found in that place. But, in addition to this, each 



40 

individual life should burn also witli a zeal that cannot be quenched, 
and with an intelligent zeal for spreading the Gospel in all the world. 
Second, to this end the individual lives will gather themselves con- 
stantly into the life of Volunteer Bands. 

First, then, with regard to the position of such a Band. In its rela- 
tion to the Student Volunteer Movement, it is simply the expression of 
that Movement in any one institution. Whatever the Movement is for 
all the colleges of the land, the Band must be for the institution in 
which it is placed. The Band should be an extension of the missionary 
activities of the Christian Associations, where such Associations exist. 
It should not be anything independent from them ; they all of them 
have their missionary committees, or ought to have them. If they have 
not, the Bands ought to introduce them. Each Band should be a large 
missionary committee for its institution. 

In regard to the work of the Band : 

1. It seems to me natural that they will have meetings to nourish 
the volunteer life and to keep in view the object for which that life was 
brought into existence. Something will certainly have to be done in 
these meetings, and I suppose most of us have our own ideas of what 
things are best to be done. Of com-se we are going to learn all about 
the world that we can. We will study missionary subjects, taking 
up the fields, biographies, and general questions in missions. The 
Bible is the special book, above all other missionary books, that 
we are to study. We will endeavor to find out aU about the Missionary 
Boards, their methods, their work, their conception of the missionary 
problem. We will take up the missionary magazines and find out what 
each one is teaching from month to month. In addition to all this, we 
will make these meetings places where we shall become so acquainted 
with the Bible that it shall be to us an exceedingly famiUar book long 
before we ever set our feet on a foreign missionary field. So much for 
the work of the Band in the meeting. 

Beyond that, secondly, it must be the work of each Band to acquaint 
each volunteer with the best missionary literature available to that Band ; 
and much more Uterature is available than we have ever imagined. A 
third work of the Band is to keep each volunteer the kind of volunteer 
he ought to be, and as soon as his feet go out of the institution, not to 
let him wander away from his expressed purpose until he has been put 
under the guiding influence of the Missionary Board. And, lastly, 
Volunteer Bands should be training schools of prayer. 

2. The second work of the Volunteer Band is outside of itself, 
among the other students of the institution ; and it too should be four- 
fold. (1.) To hold meetings of such a character that students in gen- 
eral shall be led to take a deep interest in the foreign missionary work. 



41 

And these meetings should be made of all meetings the most interesting 
ones that are held in that institution ; and they should be so frequent 
that each meeting shall come before the memory of the last shall have 
passed altogether away. (2.) It should be the object of the Band to 
lead each institution that is capable of doing it to support a missionary 
in jthe foreign field. And where it is absolutely impossible for an 
institution to do that of itself, let it combine with a church, a Sabbath 
School, a Young People's Society of Christian Endeavor, or with some 
other educational institution. We have our leagues among the colleges 
to do other things. Why may we not have them also to support our 
representatives in the fields abroad ? (3.) Its third work among students 
should be to interest every student in the foreign work. We ought not 
to let a single student pass out of the walls of our institutions without 
having thoroughly familiarized bim with the work of foreign missions 
and with the work of the Board under whose influence he will come, 
and with the needs of the field, so that he will be an intelligent giver 
and an intercessor in prayer when he gets out among the churches. 
And, lastly, the effort should be made constantly to secure from among 
the students more volunteers. 

3. The third [work of the Band should be among the Sabbath 
Schools and Christian Endeavor Societies. In a Methodist institution 
it should be to spread the knowledge of the work of the Methodist 
Board among all the Methodist Churches and Epworth Leagues. But 
it should go outside of the mission work of the Methodist Church and 
inform itself about other fields. And let it, of course, as far as it is 
possible, as has been suggested this morning, ally each church with the 
foreign field by its own living link in that field. 

4. Lastly, the work of the Volunteer Band in each institution will be 
the development of its relations to other institutions, to the Student 
Volunteer Movement, and to the Boards. Let it get Board secretaries 
into the institution if possible ; come in contact with them ; learn about 
the Boards from their representatives. Go to the city where the Board 
oflices are : let them get acquainted with you, and consult with them. 

So much then for the work. May I add just a word about the 
importance of it ? If we get the importance of it in our minds, the 
methods of the work will take care of themselves. It is important to 
the individual volunteer. Go where you will in this land to-day, in 
all our institutions where there are not Volunteer Bands, and you will 
find that the life of the individual volunteer, so far as it is a missionary 
life, is slowly dying away. He does not have interest enough, after the 
first breath of inspiration has gone, in most cases, to keep informing 
himself about the foreign field, as he must if his interest is to keep intel- 
ligent and to grow. It is important, secondly, for the institution's sake. 



42 

The most spiritual institutions in our country to-day are those that 
have been most touched by the missionary spirit. It is of the greatest 
importance to the institution to which we as volunteers belong that we 
should make the volunteer life an active life for the institution's sake. 
Then it is important for the Church's sake. The Church must draw on 
these volunteers for help in the foreign field. Should their interest die 
away the Church will have to do the work over again. 

And then, lastly, it is important for this world's sake. If we are 
going to spread the Gospel within the reach of every part of the world 
in this generation, we must not only, in the first place, rouse men's 
minds and hearts with the desire to go, but, having done that, we must 
gather them into this life in each institution and keep them there until 
the time when then- faces are parted from us. And if they do not go 
into the missionaryjfield, they will have received such an impress that 
they cannot carry on any other work without making it resemble the 
missionary life they lived in seminary or college. 

It seems to me we can get inspiration enough for this life in the 
watchword we have taken, and in the fact that, if we do not perpetuate 
the Band in each institution, it will probably not be perpetuated. 
The fact that when we go out from college we may leave a Band in our 
place, or another volunteer to stand where we stood, is inspiration 
enough to make the life that we are living now the volunteer life that 
it ought to be. 

But then, of course, we get our deepest inspiration from that child's 
school, where I trust we will all go and enter our names for the tuition 
that the Great Teacher has to give as we sit down at His feet to learn 
how to pray. And there we shall catch more of that needed faith in 
Him, whom having not seen we have learned to love so well, who is 
the Lord of this Volunteer Movement as much as He is the Lord of 
each volunteer's life. 

Mr. William H. Cossum, Travelling Secretary of the Student Vol- 
unteer Movement for Foreign Missions, presented the topic — 

Immediate Sailing : Its Advantages, and Hovst Secured. 

Some one said, as he stood on the wharf seeing a party of mission- 
aries set sail, that ships were made to carry missionaries in. It was an 
inspired utterance. And it is only as we keep these ships busy that 
the Student Volunteer Movement reaches its true objective point and 
has its true reactionary influence on the Church. 6,200 names are not 
what we are after. Our object is to evangelize the world in this gen- 
eration ; and it is not until the missionaries pledged are on board ships 
aiming towards fields that this Movement reaches it true objective 
point. 



43 

Touching the advantages of early sailing, there will be : 

First, an advantage to the volunteer himself. The sooner you get 
into contact with your field and become adjusted to your environment, 
the sooner you can begin your life work. You have a climate to be- 
come accustomed to, possibly a different language to acquire, and these 
ought to be gotten out of the way as soon as possible. And then 
again your own heart will be satisfied best by coming to the field. 
Remember you have chosen this work yourself, and your own heart, if 
true to that consecration, will be best satisfied by your getting to the 
field as soon as possible. And so, do not defer your sailing, but go. 

Then it will save you another heart struggle. The man who says, " I 
want to get a little experience in this country, and take up some diffi- 
cult phase of work here," that man will find himself tied to that work, 
and he will have to go through a new struggle. He will say, " Here is 
work enough for me ; " and that is the penny which, held before his 
vision, hides the sun. The man who gets tied up to the local field will 
have to go through a strong struggle to tear himself loose. Don't tie 
yourselves to work here. I know, as a matter of fact, that there are 
men who have expected to be volunteers, who are now laboring on 
fields in this country and are settled down there permanently. Be 
consistent to your pledge, and go to the foreign field immediately. 

The evangelization of the world in this generation is our key-note. 
The honor of the Student Volunteer Movement demands that we reach 
our fields at the earliest date possible. Here are critics, friendly and 
unfriendly, who are watching this Movement. Men in our colleges 
want to know whether we mean business or not. And it is only when 
they see the volunteers sailing when they finish their course that they 
feel we are living true to our watchword. So, for the sake of the 
honor of the Movement itself, we want to reach the fields as soon as 
possible. 

Again, such a course is necessary in order to increase the acquisi- 
tions to the Volunteer Movement from the best men in our colleges. 
Conservative men do not want to sign a pledge which they may be in 
danger of renouncing. Here are 6,200 volunteers enrolled, and 320 
on the field. They do not take into consideration all the facts that 
keep these other men here ; and hence show hesitancy with reference 
to enrolling themselves as volunteers. When they begin to see the 
number of those on the field increasing each year, they will have more 
confidence in the Movement, and we will have acquisitions to our 
Movement from the strong conservative men in our colleges. 

Then again, the missionary department in the work of the Asso- 
ciations will be strengthened by the departure of volunteers in large 
numbers. The reactionary influence exerted by men on the field will 



44 

qviioken them. It will strengthen the appeals of the representatives of 
the Student Volunteer Movement to the churches. If we can say we 
have a large number of men on the field, we will have a more practical 
basis of appeal to the churches for the necessary funds to send them. 

Going to the foreign field is bringing bread to starving men and 
Ught to the man who is stumbling and liable to fall into the ditch. If 
these people need help at all they need it immediately. Dear fellow 
volunteers, we must go into this field as fast as we can. The starving 
man must have bread at once ; the man who is sinking beneath the 
waves needs a helping hand now, or he will go down. They need you 
over there ; they need me. Don't stay in this country theorizing, when 
a hundred thousand heathens a day are dying without hope because we 
are not there teaching the Gospel to them. Get to them as soon as 
you can, dear friends. 

How shall it be secured ? I say first and most important of all, the 
immediate sailing of volunteers shall be secured by having our heart so 
tied to those fields that when the time comes for you to finish your 
course, nothing but absolute duty very clearly defined will keep you. 
Absolute duty is the only thing that ought to keep us here. And the 
only way we can have our hearts tied to these fields is to make our- 
selves thoroughly intelligent with reference to the concrete needs of 
these fields. Study the missionary field you have chosen. Find out 
the habits of life and the individual needs of these people ; and then, 
if you are really a ChristUke man, you will want to depart as soon as 
you can. Above all things else, be prayerful, morning, noon, and night. 
Pray that God may use your life with reference to this work, and the 
result will be that you wiU speedily reach the field of your choice. 

A delegate said : — 

Something has been said about working one's passage over. I have 
been there. I was converted in India, and I saw no way to be sent 
over to this country for an education. I went down to the harbor and 
asked at six different steamers, and finally found a good opportunity of 
working my passage over by painting the inside of a big vessel. And 
I say to the strong men here that it was a delightful time to me. I 
had some blisters on my fingers, but I always painted, " All for Jesus," 
one way, and " All for Christ," the other way. If there are young 
men here that wish to go out, let them beUeve that God will take care 
of them. 



45 

Afternoon Session. 

A brief song song service was conducted by Mr. Arthur J. Smith. 
The representatives of the foreign missionary societies were invited to 
take seats on the platform ; after which the Convention took up the 
subject, " The volunteer between graduation and going." 

The Rev. J. N. Murdock, D.D., of the American Baptist Mission- 
ary Union, addressed the Convention on the first topic : — 

The Requiebmbnts of Missionaet Societies. 

Mr. Chairman, brethren and sisters of the Convention, I cannot 
express the sense of gratification I feel in being permitted to look into 
your faces, to drink in your spirit, and to listen to the earnest, sober, 
and wise words that I heard from you this morning. There was no 
need of my coming to you to speak of the requirements of Missionary 
Boards, or of any other question pertaining to the details of missionary 
work, for you have been making these things a study for years. I re- 
joice in the results which have been achieved, and I should be glad 
to contribute anything in my power to your enlightenment and the 
quickening of your zeal. 

We want men : we want every person who is eligible from your 
great body of student volunteers. You need not expect that all of 
them will go to the missionary field. But if 2,000 of them go, and 
4,000, pervaded by the true missionary spirit, spread missionary in- 
telligence and keep the conscience of the Church sensitive on the sub- 
ject of the divine claims of foreign missions, that would solve the 
whole question. There are 7,000 pastors of churches connected with 
the society to which I belong. If I could get 4,000 of those men to 
do their duty in reference to means, I would fold my hands and go 
home, so far as any sense of absolute and pressing necessity resting 
upon me might be concerned : the work would be done. What we 
want to-day more than missionary candidates is missionary pastors, — 
pastors of churches that will simply do their duty, that will lead their 
churches in the way they ought to go and are waiting to be led, some 
of them longing to be led. 

But I am not to speak of this ; I am to speak of the requirements 
— that is, the conditions of your acceptance, as I understand it — by 
the Missionary Board. Now, there is no extra- critical sense in the 
nerves of Missionary Boards. We are not allowed to be too particu- 
lar. We scarcely have a chance of making selections for the places 
that we want to fill. One of the things that I have hoped might 
result from your seminary alliances, and from this Convention, is that 
you may present to us a sufiicient number of missionary candidates to 



46 

allow us to select the best. We want the best. I speak for my own 
society, — but I doubt not what I say is true of other societies, — that 
we have sent many men to the foreign mission field, good men, Chris- 
tian men, men that are worthy of confidence, and yet they are not 
such men as we would have sent if we could have sent better. "We 
want a chance to make a selection; and we are submissive to the 
Providence who keeps every man from the mission field who can be 
better employed among the home churches, so that^they cleave to 
Christ and do not neglect His work. 

Well then, what must we have in our missionary candidates ? One 
of the first things is good health. We want the sound body. We 
want the man of sound nerves, of reasonable muscles, of good stom- 
ach, the man who can make himself contented and easy, and rest 
when the possibility of rest shall come. We want men of good health, 
and so we institute medical examinations. There will always be one 
or two men in an examining committee who will lay great stress upon 
the health of a candidate. And there will be another man who, from 
his financial carefulness, will second the man who is anxious about the 
question of health. And so we are obUged to have a medical examin- 
ation. When in three months time a man comes home by reason of 
failure in health, we must be able to go back to the record and see if 
we have not been at fault. 

Then I need not say that we want men of ability. We do not want 
a man who cannot succeed anywhere in this country. A gentleman 
wrote me once recommending his pastor as a candidate for foreign 
missions. He had understood that it was not necessary for a mission- 
ary to preach as ministers preach in this country ; that they only 
wanted a good, careful, prudent man, who would not do anything very 
foolish and never anything very wise. He thought his pastor was just 
the man that ought to go to the heathen ; he was so much in advance of 
the heathen. I tell you, Mr. Chairman, there are not so many of us 
that are in advance of the heathen. The intellect of the Hindoo, of the 
Chinaman, of the Japanese, will put you to your mettle when you come 
in contact with them. 

We also want men of good sound common sense — not simply 
mental ability, but we want the roundaboutness of common sense. 
We want a man who will look at things with an even eye, a man who 
will not be suddenly moved by unpropitious junctures of circumstances, 
a man whose expectations of success, whose demands upon the people 
for whom he labors, will not be too extravagant. We want a man who 
can take a common sense view o'f the problems that are presented to 
him and of the work that is committed to his hands. 

We must have men of good repute, so we are obliged to look up 
the record of every man who comes to us asking for an appointment. 



47 

We are very glad sometimes to adopt the rule of Oliver Wendell 
Holmes, who, when he was asked when he would have the moral cul- 
ture of a child begin, replied, " One hundred years before he was born." 
We are glad to have men come to us and say : " I was the child of 
godly parents. My father and my mother were Christians before me, 
and they taught me the way of salvation through Christ, and they 
instructed me in the duties as well as in the doctrines of the Holy 
Scriptures." 

We want spiritually minded men. We want men who live day by 
day in communion with God, who cleave to Christ, and in whom Christ 
abides. We want men who are sound in the faith. We do not want 
to send anybody to the heathen to learn anything that they can teach 
him. There was a man who went to India from Boston, and though 
he could not fully beheve the Bible, he took the Shastas without any 
sort of compunction. We have got one returning from Japan who 
went out to make a sort of exchange with the Japanese. He found 
that Unitarianism was simply esoteric Buddhism, and having made that 
discovery he is on his way back. We want men who believe something, 
men who believe they are going to save souls from ruin and from 
death. And if we are not to do this, then, in the name of all that is 
reasonable, let us just suspend this work. 

We want men of missionary convictions ; men who feel that God 
has laid this work upon them. We want men with a missionary pur- 
pose, who are called by the Holy Ghost. The only point in which I 
have had any fear about this student Movement is that we shall forget 
that God only can call a minister, God only can make a missionary. 
The apostles, when one fell out of his place, sought to supply it. God 
paid no attention to that. He may pay just as little attention to you 
who have taken the pledge. He may see only here and there among 
these thousands the man whom he has chosen. Let us remember 
always that only the Holy Ghost can select a minister, and when He 
selects one He will do something. 

When John E. Clough came before the missionary committee in 
Boston, he was somewhat angular in appearance, not an elegant, 
learned, or cultivated man in the ordinary sense, and there was some 
doubt about sending him. When the late Dr. Stowe, who always 
observed the proprieties, said to him, " What if we should think it not 
best for you to go ? " " That would make no difference with my 
opinion," was the reply. " What if this committee should think it best 
not to send you ? " "I should be obUged to go in some other way." 
There was nothing arrogant about it, — it was very politely said ; but 
everybody there saw that that man had a conviction. He said, " I 
have lived twelve years in a United States surveying expedition, and 



48 

I have never slept on a bed or under a roof during all those years." 
And as soon as he got out among the Telugus he wanted his tent. He 
did not stop in his station for people to go to him, but he went out and 
began to preach to them, and immediately there began to be conver- 
sions. He soon had his native preachers so trained that they could tell 
their friends and neighbors the way of salvation through Christ ; and 
throughout all the villages in all the region, from one extent of the 
country to the other, those native preachers went forth proclaiming the 
lessons they had learned from their teacher. And in 1878, 10,000 of 
these people were united with the Church of Christ ; and they stand 
to-day. They have suffered persecution, they have undergone hard- 
ships, they have endured trial — and yet they stand, and during the 
last few months thousands more have come. 

The Boards require and expect from men, no matter how learned 
they are or how able, subordination to rule ; for let it be understood 
that there are some things that must be settled in this country which 
cannot be disturbed on the other side, — as to how much money you 
shall have, as to the form and method of your work, — and no man 
will ever be able to lead his people wisely who has not learned to be in 
subjection himself. Our responsibility is divided. Let us bear ours, 
and may you take your burdens in the spirit of a missionary in Burmah, 
whom I was obliged to advise when we had not given him half of what 
he had asked for to do an important work. I expected a sharp letter 
from his wife, — God be praised for the women. The answer was: 
" You have done all you could ; I must do all I can ; and the Lord 
must do all the rest." 

Question. Do you not think that one of the qualifications to go 
abroad which would influence greatly an acceptance is the work that a 
man has already done at home ? 

Answer. Yes ; I had something to say on that, and I am glad you 
gave me an opportunity to say it. It is one of the questions we always 
ask of a candidate for the ministry, whether he has been engaged in 
active religious work at home, in the Sunday School, in the church, in 
the community ; especially, if he is a young man who has associated 
with clerks in a store or with students in college : " Did you labor for 
the personal conversion of the young men with whom you associated ? " 
We very generally found that the answer was in the afiirmative. 

Q. What relation has a college course to a man's fitness for a 
missionary ? 

A. We are always glad to know that a man has enjoyed a fuU 
college course and a full seminary course, and we would be glad if we 
could add to that a year or two of Christian evangelistic work at home. 
We never expect to see a man too well educated for a missionary. 



49 

And yet, when the Lord calls men evidently of another stamp, puts 
a missionary purpose into their hearts, endows them with ability, and 
gives them good common sense, — men who are willing to take a sub- 
ordinate place in the mission, — we send them out, and the Lord has 
sometimes brought those very men up to the first place. 

The Rev. F. A. Steven, of the China Inland Mission, spoke as 
follows : — 

Much that Dr. Murdock has already said would be equally applic- 
able to the topic that is allotted to me ; namely, " What is required in 
candidates for the China Inland Mission ? " 

We may remind ourselves in the first instance — we cannot remind 
ourselves too often — that unmistakable evidence of the new birth is 
the first essential for a missionary. No amount of culture can possibly 
take the place of this. Zeal for God's glory in the preaching of the 
Gospel among the heathen is the next essential. That a man should 
go out to represent a missionary society, or to represent a church or 
denomination, and not put God first, not live wholly for God among 
the heathen, is a deplorable thing indeed. The heathen are sunken in 
idolatry, and unless we represent a pure, simple, joyous, powerful 
Christianity among them, we shall never be able to move them from 
their heathenism. 

A fair acquaintance with God's word, and a real deep love for it, 
is a requisite that cannot possibly be dispensed with. I say a fair 
acquaintance with God's word, because a man is always learning, and 
if he have a deep love for the word of God will go on perfecting him- 
self in the knowledge of it when he is in the field. Let us remember 
that a man's training by no means ceases when he leaves these shores. 
In the China Inland Mission a man's training begins then, or rather a 
very important part of his training and fitness for his work begins after 
he leaves these shores. We have, I thank God for it, estabUshed two 
training homes in connection with the mission, one for ladies and one 
for gentlemen, and at the present time there are I suppose somewhere 
about thirty young men at the training home, and about the same 
number of ladies, studying the Chinese language and the Bible under 
competent teachers. This is a very, very great advantage in the carry- 
ing on of the work. 

As Dr. Murdock has already said, in regard to the other Boards, so 
I would emphasize in regard to the China Inland Mission — soundness 
in the faith is most essential. We do not want any to go to China to 
teach heresy. There is plenty of heathenism, plenty of wandering 
from God, in China already, without adding to the confusion of the 
people by new heresies. Let me read from the " Principles and Prac- 
tice " of the mission : « Candidates are expected to satisfy the Directors 



50 

and Home Council as to their soundness in the faith on all fundamen- 
tal truths by handing in, together with the schedule of application, a 
written statement of their views as to the inspiration of the Scriptures, 
the Trinity, the fall of man and his state by nature, the atonement, the 
eternal salvation of the redeemed, and the everlasting pimishment of 
the lost." If a man is shaky upon that last point we don't want him. 
They must be cathoUc in their views, and able to have fellowship at 
work and at the Lord's table with all believers holding these funda- 
mental truths, even if widely differing in their judgment as to the 
points of church government. 

A willingness to trust God for supply, without human guarantee, 
is an essential to membership in the China Inland Mission. I read 
again from the " Principles and Practice " : " The mission is supported 
entirely by the freewill offerings of the Lord's people. The needs of 
the work are laid before God in prayer, no personal solicitations or 
collections being authorized. No more is expended than is thus re- 
ceived, neither borrowing or going into debt being consistent with the 
principle of entire dependence upon God. The Directors therefore 
cannot and do not give any promise or guarantee of support to the 
members of the mission. They seek faithfully to distribute what is 
available, but each missionary is expected to recognize that his depend- 
ence for the supply of his need must be on God, who called him, and 
for whom he must labor, and not for any human organization. Dr. 
Langford, who is expected here, was in China when the first band of 
fifteen missionaries, accompanied by Mr. Hudson Taylor, arrived in 
China in the summer of 1866. At that time the whole number of the 
missionaries of the new China Inland Mission was about 20 ; to-day we 
number between 430 and 440. 

God has been faithful to His promises. Not one iota of all His 
pledge of love to His children has ever failed. I have been in connec- 
tion with the mission about eight years, and in journeying right across 
China from side to side and over into Burmah, and for three years and 
a half I have never lacked any good thing. To the praise of God be 
it spoken. His right hand has supplied after His own bountiful fashion. 

I must say here that in the China Inland Mission we wear the 
native dress and live in native houses, which, however, we can accom- 
modate to our requirements by internal changes. We do not make 
external changes in the interior provinces of China, in order to avoid 
prejudice in the people. Wearing the native dress and living upon 
the food available in the districts, we are able to live comfortably and 
well upon $300 per annum, including traveling expenses. I have 
never found it either necessary or advantageous to use so much as the 
figure I have mentioned. 



51 

I want now just to say that candidates must count the cost. They 
are expected to be willing to live lives of privation, of toil, of loneli- 
ness, of danger ; to be looked down upon by their countrymen ; to be 
despised by the Chinese ; to live in the interior, far from the comforts 
and advantages of European society and protection. They will need 
to trust God as able to meet their need in sickness as well as in health, 
as it wiU usually be impossible to have recourse to the aid of European 
physicians. But, if faithful servants, they will find in Christ and His 
word a joy and strength that wiU far outweigh everything that they 
have sacrificed for Him. 

A fair English education is desirable for all who go to China, and 
without that we should advise a time of further training in this country 
as a test of the ability and perseverance that would be necessary for 
the acquirement of the Chinese language. Yet we do not ask that 
all should be highly educated. If a man were to say : " My house 
that I am to build is to be such as none ever was before. Not a man 
shall touch trowel or carry mortar on that house but who has been 
bred as an architect and passed his examination," we should say that 
the man would be a long, long time before he got his house built. In 
the China Inland Mission we recognize that God calls men of different 
qualifications for different fields of labor. I rejoice that most of the 
Boards also recognize this. I beUeve that the time is coming when 
men of capable business habits and ability will do a still larger share 
of the work of foreign missions than heretofore. Send us the best, 
send us the most highly educated ; but oh ! do not forget to send us the 
competent, clear-headed, common sense business men, who give up all 
for Christ and come to preach the Gospel to the heathen. 

A word about medical education, and I have done. Some say 
" Is it not good to take a medical course ? " Yes, by all means, unless 
you have the burden of the heathen resting upon you ; and if, on the 
other hand, you have some special, definite message from the Lord that 
you ought to study medicine. If not, get to the work as quickly as you 
can, and believe that God can call men, already qualified, from the 
medical colleges and the medical profession in this country. 

The Rev. J. O. Peck, D.D., of the Missionary Society of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church, spoke on — 

Thb Mode of Application to the Various Missionary 

Societies. 

Mr. Chairman, to put a missionary secretary, who is accustomed 
every time he speaks to have an hour or an hour and a half, into five 
or ten minutes, is hke cramping an Olympus into a nutshell. You saw 
how Dr. Murdock struggled with it; it will be worse with me. 



52 

I do not know what the modes of application are in other societies, 
and therefore I confine myself to our own society, and say, that if any 
one of you, or any one from any part of the land who wants to go as 
a missionary under the auspices of this society, would write to the 
missionary society and offer yourself, stating whatever facts you may 
choose to state concerning yourself, the Secretary would reply to you, 
sending you a blank form, which you are to fill out concerning your 
age — we don't want you too old and we don't want you too young. 
A missionary may occasionally at twenty-one be successful, but he is 
usually a stripling. He must know vastly more than I did when I was 
in Amherst College at twenty-one or he will not know enough to be a 
successful missionary. We would rather have him a little older than 
that. We would ask him to give his age, his birthplace, and his new 
birthplace, the conditions of his health, — whether there were facts 
that would militate against our sending him to bilious climates. We 
would want to know where he graduated in college, — in short, his 
educational accomplishments ; and then, after he has fille^ that blank 
out, we send two or three more to different parties ; for instance, to 
the president of the college or one to the professors of the college or 
of the theological seminary, and another to somebody else whom we 
can find out knows him thoroughly well. We inquire in those blanks, 
which he does not see but which we examine, all about his disposition, 
his studies, his powers of application, his health, his qualifications for 
acquiring languages, and his social qualities. In short, we try to get a 
thorough measure of the man and know all about him from independ- 
ent sources. And then we require him to go before a physician, 
whom we shall designate if we please, and be examined with reference 
to mission work in India, for instance. He is to be examined with 
reference to the climate into which we propose to send him, in order 
that we may have the best certification of medical science that he is 
quaUfied for work in that field so far as can be ascertained. 

This is the mode of application and our treatment of it. We 
write a good, loving, brotherly, hearty letter, avoiding everything that 
is unnecessary, that may be possibly a discouragement ; for, I assure you, 
the older I grow, the more I believe that the man who unnecessarily 
puts a burden upon a human soul and discourages it, is a traitor to 
humanity. There are burdens enough already upon all men. And, as 
Dr. Murdock said, they are careful of their treatment of young men 
and young ladies who are applicants ; so missionary secretaries, I be- 
lieve, always are full of charity and of a disposition to encourage and 
help forward every one whom God has called and into whose hearts 
He has put a desire for missionary work. That answers, I think, all 
that need be said about the mode of application. I think, in all 
societies men apply to the missionary secretaries at the head- 



53 

quarters of theii' denominational societies, and directions are given 
whicli result in bringing them into such relations with the terms and 
qualifications and accomplishments as are required. And though the 
forms vary in different societies, the facts I think are generally the 
same. 

Now, I want to take the rest of the time that belongs to me to say 
something that does not belong so much to this subject as to something 
more important; for if a man is called of God to be a missionary, 
the mode of application will not trouble him. He will get there if it 
is in his heart to go ; and I believe in the men who get there, for they 
are the men who never renounce their pledges and who are determined to 
get to this foreign work. And I do join with my distinguished brother, 
Dr. Murdock, in rendering thanks to these officers of this society who 
have permitted us the honor of being present here in this Convention, 
coming here not to instruct you, but to bring our older blood into con- 
tact with your blood, to be filled with this great ' inspiration which I 
believe has come down from God upon the colleges and universities 
and schools of our land, moving this great Student Movement for the 
salvation of the world during this generation. I do not say it will be 
done. Perhaps I am not as hopeful as some of you ; perhaps I know 
more about the difficulties. But no matter : it is possible for it to be 
done, in my conviction, and it is a magnificent testimony, both that God 
is on the throne with purpose to save this world, and that men are 
being moved by the Spirit of the living God, in response to His own 
impulse, to answer, " Here am I ; send me." 

This great Movement that has sprung up in the last four years is 
the result of prayer to God from all along ^the cottages and humble 
places of our land, as well as in missionary circles. Men and women 
who have the burden of the Lord upon their souls have been praying 
Him to hasten the coming of the kingdom of Christ throughout the 
world. And I believe your Movement is one of the factors in the ex- 
ecution of that great, sublime purpose of God that the kingdoms of 
this earth shall be the kingdoms of our Lord and His Christ. The 
secretaries of the Missionary Boards to-day feel it a joy to come in 
touch with you, to feel this great inspiration ; and we will go home 
with a livelier and keener sensibility and profounder conviction. I see 
such an earnest Christian spirit in your meetings that I am convinced 
that it is the Spirit of God that is carrying you on. 

Now I suggest to you, as a solution of matters that were in the air 
here this morning, that you make yom- consecration to this work when 
you sign the pledge, and teach others so to make it. Make that con- 
secration in such a spirit as the old Jew made his offering on the altar. 
When he brought his lamb in his arms and held it, that was the Jew's 
lamb ; it was his and he had a right to it. When he laid it down by 



54 

the altar with his hands on it, it was still his lamb, for he had claiming 
hands on it. But when he lifted his hands and left it on God's altar, 
he had nothing more to do with it. Make your consecration to God 
like that, and when you are laid on God's altar there will be no re- 
nunciation, save as Divine Providence shall interpret the impossibility 
through death or sickness or other providential considerations. In that 
spirit, called of God and utterly surrendered to God, you wUl do a 
work that shall be felt to the ends of the earth. And the reflexive 
influence of this work from you in distant lands, as you write with that 
spirit, and as you come home at proper times with that spirit, shall 
thrill the churches at home. And perhaps one of the greatest needs 
of the Missionary Boards to-day — which is money — will be met 
when men under that spirit shall speak from distant lands to the home 
churches, or shall return from distant lands to plead as only such men 
can plead. God bless you! 

The Rev. Alexander Sutherland, D.D., of the Methodist Church of 
Canada, addressed the Convention on the same topic : — 

A few minutes will sufiice for what I wish to say just at this stage. 
Let me touch upon these two points. 

First, who should apply? That has been partly dealt with. In 
the first place, only men and women that are in sound, vigorous health ; 
and that for a very practical reason. As a rule, the foreign field takes 
you into a climate different from the one in which you are living, and 
the constitution that is enfeebled, the strength that is partly exhausted 
already, is very apt to go down, not only under the influence of the 
climate, but under the mental and spiritual strain that seems to be upon 
so many who go to the foreign field. 

Then again, only those should make application who are so con- 
strained by the love of Christ along this line of foreign missionary 
work that they see and feel that there is no other way open for them. 
We get a good many applications of various kinds, and a brief expe- 
rience in the matter will enable one in receiving the application to read 
between the lines ; and very often we find a good deal more between 
the lines than in the lines themselves. It is very easy to tell, when we 
get an application, whether the person making it is moved by the con- 
straining love of Christ and a deep conviction of duty, or whether they 
are merely moved, as sometimes persons ai-e moved, by a disposition to 
try an experiment, or moved perhaps by a little sentimental idea about 
the gentle heathen on the coral islands, and the cocoanuts, and all that 
sort of thing. And it is very important at such times to have men at 
the head of affairs who can deal promptly and decisively with that 
class of applications. 



55 

When we have these two things we have perhaps two of the essen- 
tials. The question has come up more than once with regard to this 
matter of educational qualification. As has been said to-day by one of 
the speakers, we are very thankful for all the advantages of the widest 
scholarship. But after all, let me say here, that is a secondary consid- 
eration. Some scholarship there must be, some educational acquire- 
ments must be possessed ; and there must be a pretty thorough knowl- 
edge of the word of God and ability to teach its truths. But there 
has been two ways of training men with reference to missionary work 
— one to train them for the ministiy, the other to train them in it. I 
think by the good providence of God we are getting about to the right 
point to-day, when we are seeking to combine both methods, and that 
we have the training /br as well as the training in. 

Now, then, with men and women of this stamp making application, 
what is the best mode of application ? That might seem at first sight a 
very needless question to ask, and yet a good deal depends upon it ; and 
I have known in the course of my experience applications rejected, and 
I have known applications accepted, where the turning point after all 
was the mode of application. Sometimes, for example, you will get an 
application, and you will feel the moment you read it, " This man's 
heart is not in it;" there will be some' allusion to prospective income, 
or when he can come back to the country from which he goes, and a 
dozen questions of this kind, and you feel almost instantly that the 
salvation of souls is not the great moving power with that man — I 
will not say with that woman, because we never get such applications 
from women. Now, to whom is he going to make application? First 
of all, let me emphasize, to your Divine Master. Do not apply any- 
where else until you have applied there and received an answer, and 
then the rest of the way will be clear enough. 

Perhaps I can best illustrate by an incident. Twenty years ago or 
more a letter was published by a missionary who resided in British 
Columbia, describing the terrible destitution of the condition of the 
Indian tribes, and appealing to the young men at home, saying, 
"Is there any young man who wiU come and do something for 
the Indians on this coast?" That letter came under the eye of a 
young man in Ontario, a man of comparatively limited education, but 
of great spiritual earnestness and zeal. He first of all went to the 
Lord with the matter, and spread it before Him and said : " Lord, here 
I am ready, if I can do anything. Only open up the way for me to 
go." Some days after that he met an old friend of the family, and 
this old friend said to him : " What is the matter with you ? You are 
looking rather downcast." And after a time he got it out of him : " I 
want to go to preach to the Indians in British Columbia." " Why don't 
you go?" "I have not the money to take me there." "That need not 



56 

stop you. I will let you have the money. If you can ever pay it 
back, all right ; if not, it is for the Lord's work anyway." He took 
the money and went. He did not apply to any Board, or say a word 
to anybody but the Lord and this one friend. He went out there, and 
the result has simply been that in the course of years he has become 
one of the most successful missionaries employed by the society'; for 
it was not long before the society employed him. 

A year ago or more I received two letters within the course of two 
or three weeks. In one of them a young man gave me his name, resi- 
dence, and so on, and said he was a student at Toronto University in 
the department of civil engineering. While there this wonderful wave 
of missionary enthusiasm in connection with the college Movement 
reached him. It came with great power to his own mind; but he 
waited and watched and prayed untU, in the calmness and quietness 
of afterthought, he was clearly convinced that it was a providential 
call. He immediately abandoned his professional studies, and went to 
a medical college in Chicago to qualify as a medical missionary. He 
offered himself first of all to the Church of his early association and 
choice, in which he had been converted, but intimated that if God 
opened the way he was going anyway. A week or two later I re- 
ceived another letter from a young man, written from the city of 
Kingston. The writer said : " I am a graduate in arts of Queens 
University, and also a graduate in medicine. My friend is a graduate 
in arts, and is now pursuing his theological course." He opened up 
his heart as to how they had felt for years this call to the foreign field, 
and now, they said : " We think we are about as far equipped as studies 
can prepare us. We olfer ourselves fi^-st to the Church of our choice. 
If you can send us, we will go ; if not, we will offer ourselves to the 
Lord in some other direction." In every case these young men said : 
" We are ready to go to any part of the world the Church desires to 
send us to. We would suggest, however, the hope that the Church 
would see its way clear to send us to one of the neglected provinces 
of China." These were model applications. Go they must, but then- 
first offer is made to their own Church and Board : " If you can send 
us, we will be glad ; if not, perhaps somebody else will." WTiat is a 
volunteer good for if he is not ready to go wherever he is required ? 
And so they were ready to go anywhere, but suggested the hope that 
they might be permitted to go to this grand field. 

The Rev. H. N. Cobb, D.D., of the Board of Missions of the Re- 
formed Church in America, then followed on the same topic : — 

I am very much pleased, Mr. Chairman, to be asked to addi-ess yon. 
I can only add my hearty amen to all that has been said in regard to 



57 

the great pleasure and gratitude that I feel in the privilege of being in 
such a gathering as this. I want simply to make a single remark in 
reference to the hindrances which may come up. I was fearful that 
some here who have an unnecessarily low sense of their abilities might 
be somewhat discouraged in regard to the requirements for service in 
the foreign field. 

It was stated that a man who cannot make an impression or secure 
a ready hearing in this country ought not to think of going abroad to 
preach the Gospel to the heathen. All that has been said about want- 
ing the best men, about the work needing the best men that can be 
obtained, is absolutely true. But yet we believe that the Lord has a 
place for every man whose heart is moved, and whom the Spirit leads 
to offer himself for that service. I want to testify, as a missionary 
Secretary, that some of the most successful missionaries we have are 
men who are not successful to a very large extent in interesting 
audiences in this country. I have one in my mind at this moment, who 
is perhaps, with one exception, the most successful missionary we 
have in China, who is not heard with interest when he addresses 
audiences in this country. And I have another man in mind who has 
been one of the most successful developers and managers of one of our 
most successful educational institutions, of whom, when he spoke at a 
missionary convention in om- church, one of the members of the Board 
heard some one in the audience behind him say, " What have the 
heathen done^^that that man should be sent to them." I only want to 
emphasize that when the Lord calls a man to go far hence unto the 
Gentiles, it is not so much a question of natural ability ; He knows what 
He is about when He says to a man, " Go here " or " Go there." And 
the design of this application spoken of is simply that those of the 
church upon whom the responsibility rests may be able to ascertain, so 
far as it is possible for man to ascertain, whether these men and women 
who present themselves are really God-moved or self-moved. And if 
we ascertain to our satisfaction that they are God-moved, then, if it is 
a possible thing, it is our duty to facilitate their way into the field. 

The Rev. A. McLean, Secretary of the Foreign Christian Mission- 
ary Society, added the following words on the same subject : — 

I agree with all that has been said about the best method of apply- 
ing. But there is one thing that our Board does in addition to all that 
has been said this afternoon, and that is, we like to see the candidate ; 
we like to feel his pulse, to test his spirit, to see what he looks like ; 
and we like to [have him stay around the mission rooms for two or 
three days, that we may du-ectly and personally leai-n as much as we 
can about him. We have found that a very good and profitable thing 



58 

to do. Sometimes we can tell from a letter whether a man is worth in- 
viting or not. If a man is inquiring simply for the money he wants to 
get out of the missionary work, we do not want him at all. If it is evi- 
dent from his letter that he is a man of no scholarship or ability, we 
do not want him. But if we are satisfied from his recommendations 
that he is the right kind of man, he is invited. 

We want the best. We cannot always get the best ; there are not 
enough of the best to go around. We take a good average man if we 
can get him ; a man with a good heart, a man with an average good 
mind — if we can get a man of that kind we are glad of it, and we feel 
very certain that a man of that sort will do great good in the mission 
field. I remember, when I was a child, seeing old Dr. Geddie, mission- 
ary to the New Hebrides. When he was examined as a candidate for 
the ministry, the examining Board said if he were going to the mission 
field they would allow him to pass, but if he were going to stay at 
home they would not. He was accepted, and went into the mission 
field and did a great work there. And when he died they wrote this 
simple epitaph over his grave : " When he came to us there were 
no Christians ; when he left us there were no heathen." I think no 
grander epitaph was ever placed on any man's tomb than that of this 
man who came^within a handsbreadth of being rejected when he sought 
entrance into the ministry of. Jesus Christ. 

Brethren, we want the best if we can get them, men worthy to 
stand before kings, men of great attainments ; but we do not want to 
keep the bars that high in all cases. The average man who is willing 
to go, the man of [consecration and good sense and good health, the 
man of tact and patience — that man, if he offers, we are glad to accept 
and send out into this great field, feeling certain that a man of that sort 
will be abundantly blessed of the Lord. 

The Rev. George SchoU, D. D., Secretary of the Board of Foreign 
Missions of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, followed on the same 
topic : — 

It seems to me, my friends, that it is the whole aim and scope of 
the Gospel to teach the privilege and possibility and duty of every fol- 
lower of the Lord Jesus Christ to stand on the same high plane of 
Christian manhood on which He stood. Many of the qualifications that 
the brethren this afternoon have said are required for a foreign mission- 
ary are no less required for a teacher in the Sunday School in Cleve- 
land, Ohio, who has half a dozen boys or girls to instruct. It seems to 
me that the time has come when we all are to preach the Gospel ; that not 
a few chosen ones here and there are to rise to great eminence in their 
qualifications and in the dedication of themselves to the Lord Jesus 



59 

Christ, but that the men who by their money are to send these young 
men to their work need to consecrate themselves also. 

We have ten offers to every one that we are able to send. And it 
seems to me that these young men could inaugurate no greater move- 
ment, after they have consecrated themselves to the Lord Jesus Christ, 
than to go out among the churches, [and go to men and women of 
wealth and say to them : " Here I am. I am ready to go. What can 
you do toward sending me ? " I wish we had more men like one we 
sent to India a year ago. He appeared before the Board and said, " I 
want to go to India." They said, " We have no money." He said, 
" I am going." " We cannot send you." " Give me the privilege," he 
said, " to go to the children of the Sunday Schools, and talk to them 
about it." They said, " You may try if you wish to." He went, and 
in a year he had money enough to support more than half a dozen mis- 
sionaries. The children responded. 

I believe in high mental qualifications. I know that in India the 
very keenest intellects are required to meet the subtle minds of the Hin- 
doos, and especially of the Brahmins. But there are other places where 
a keen intellect is not the pre-eminent qualifications of a successful 
worker. Seventeen years ago a young man applied for work on the 
west coast of Africa. I was not directly connected with the Board at 
that time, but the brethren said something like this : it was not likely 
that he could get a church in this country, and he was about as good a 
subject for African fevers as any one else they might send. They felt 
that they were in desperate straits. It was a deadly climate, and they 
could not afford to send a first-class man. He is there yet, and there 
is not a man in our church talked, written, and prayed for as that man, 
and he is continually being lifted up on the prayers of the whole 
Church. More than one young man has said to me, " I would esteem 
it the greatest privilege of my life if I could be a laborer under him on 
the west coast of Africa." 

The Lord knows the men He selects : let us try and put ourselves 
entirely under the Divine guidance — Secretaries, Boards, candidates, 
all of us together put ourselves under the Divine guidance. And then, 
perhaps, we are compelled to say, as the venerable Dr. Clarke of the 
American Board said to me : " Perhaps, after all we have done, the only 
way to decide on the fitness of a young man is to send him on trial." 
The Lord shows the way, and the Lord brings about wonderful results 
sometimes from what to us would seem a very little outgo. 



60 

Prof. H. H. Harris, of the Southern Baptist Convention, closed the 
discussion with the following remarks : — 

In the first place, we have found, and I am sure it will always be 
true, that if God gives us the men and women, His people will supply 
the means to sustain them. . . Let us not wait for the money in order 
to appoint |the "men ; but the best way in the world to stir up the 
churches and get the money is to appoint the men and women and send 
them out. It has been presented here to-day, that one who comes to a 
Board for appointment should be determined to go whether the Board 
will appoint him or not. I believe it. Furthermore, I believe he 
ought to feel so called from a higher source that he must go. And yet, 
I do know that the Board ought to sit in judgment on his qualifica- 
tions, and ought to reject some applicants. I will give you a case. 
A young man came before the Board. He said : " I wish to go to 
Brazil. It has been on jmy heart ; it has been laid on my conscience 
by the Spirit of the Lord. If you will send me I will be glad ; if not, 
I am going anyhow. God has called me to that work." We sent him. 
In less than two years he was back again, and is now at home, a very 
earnest, active pastor. Now, I believe that God did not call him ; I 
believe he was mistaken about it. 

I will give you another case. Two men came before the Board 
very highly recommended, — men of fine qualifications. They were re- 
jected. They are to-day among the most influential men in behalf of 
foreign missions in all that region of country. There are men — I beg 
to impress the thought — who are called of God to stay at home. 
There are men upon whom the burden of souls in foreign lands is laid, 
who are to be made interested in the work and to be informed on the 
work, and yet their duty is to stay at home and stir up the Church 
itself. 



Prom four to five o'clock simultaneous meetings were held, at 
which the pecuUar features of the various fields were discussed. As a 
rule these different meetings were attended by volunteers who have 
some particular field in view. The " Africa " meeting was conducted 
by Mr. I. N. Merrifield, of Morgan Park, 111. The Rev. Geo. A. 

Wilder, Mr. C. J. Laffin, and Rev. and Mrs. E. B. Sage all 

returned missionaries — spoke upon work in Africa. 

The " China " meeting was conducted by Mr. W. H. Cossum, Trav- 
eling Secretary of Student Volunteer Movement for Foreign Missions. 
Revs. Geo. L. Mason, Jno. L. Nevius, D.D., Rev. and Mrs. F. A. Ste- 
ven, Mrs, D. Z. Sheffield, and others, spoke upon work in China. 



61 

The " Japan " meeting was conducted by Mr. J. Campbell WMte, 
College Young Men's. Christian Association Secretary. The Revs. 
Kajinosuke Ibuka and W. R. Lambeth, M.D., returned missionaries, 
discussed missionary problems in Japan, and answered questions put to 
them by volunteers. 

The "Papal Lands" meeting was conducted by Rev. Alex. N. 
O'Brien. Revs. J. M. Allis and Geo. W. Chamberlain, D.D., spoke 
upon work in Papal Lands. 

The "Turkish Empu-e" meeting was conducted by Mr. Robert 
Eliot Speer, of Princeton, N. J., who was aided by Rev. C. F. Gates 
and Mrs. Etta D. Marden.* 

The "India" meeting was conducted by Mr. Robert P. Wilder, of 
New York City, who opened the hour by reading a passage from the 
the Book of Jonah. Mr. Wilder said: — 

We wish to call your attention to those few verses from the first 
book in the Bible offering an opportunity for repentance to the 
heathen : " Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it." 
He (Jonah) rose up to flee from the command. I have often regretted 
the first foreign missionary taking that course, for his action has often 
since become contagious. " He rose to flee, and, finding a ship going 
to Tarshish, he went into it to flee from the presence of the Lord." 
You will notice the reason — Jonah hesitated to go to Nineveh lest 
it might repent. Many among us hesitate to enter the foreign service 
lest the work at home lose their support. There^was a mighty tempest 
in the sea, and they cast forth the wares that were in the ship into the 
sea to lighten it of them ; but Jonah was gone down into the sides of 
the ship, and he lay there fast asleep, — the only man who, in such a 
trial, could go fast asleep. And yet to-day in India scores of men and 
women are calling upon their God ; and shall it be said that we are 
asleep and do not send the aid that is within our power ? We must 
not do so : we must respond. " And the word of the Lord came unto 
Jonah the second time, saying, Arise, go unto Nineveh, that great city, 
and preach unto it the preaching that I bid thee." Just notice it was 
only one sentence. When God gives work for us to do, we should go 
and do that work. If God gives us work to do in India, if he tells us 
to go to India and do His work, if He tells us to do that work, to do the 
work there required, if He says to us " Go into India and preach the 
preaching I bid thee," then we should obey His command. 

The remainder of the story is familiar to us all. Jonah went to 
Nineveh and cried out to the city, " Yet forty days and Nineveh shall 
be overthrown." The people repented and the judgment was stayed. 

* We regret that lack of space forbids the insertion of full reports of aU the Simultaneous 
Meetings, as they formed an important and instructive feature of the Convention.— ^cJitors. 



62 
Kev. Henry Forman addressed the audience upon — 

The Educational Phase of Missionaet Woek. 

I am asked to speak five minutes on the subject mentioned. It is a 
subject upon wbich a great deal can be said. First among the people 
of India are the Hindoos and Mohanamedans : they comprise the vast 
majority; while from all branches of these we must take the native 
Christians, — that is, we must educate them to become Christians. And 
why must we do this ? Now, there are Hindoos and Mohammedans 
both which will never become Christians unless we do educate them. 
Is it not fitting they should be educated, and by us ? It is a problem 
for solution whether we shall educate them or they shall be educated 
by the government. The people of India are to be educated. The 
English government has pledged itself to that, and is securing for 
them larger facilities than are to be obtained in any other way ; and, if 
educated by the government, they must be educated in neutral schools, 
and that means " not for us, but against us." It may not be theoreti- 
cally so, yet it is practically so. Neutrality in their education means 
infideUty or non- Christianity ; and, if a man is Buddhist, Hindoo, or 
Mahommedan, then his mouth may be opened, but, if he be an earnest 
lover of Christianity, his mouth is shut. Again, taking the anti-Chris- 
tian schools, unless we want those young men growing up with various 
creeds, — unless we want them to be infidels even, — we must go on 
with our school work. 

Education in our schools is carried on in all the different grades. 
There are not only high schools, but we carry men up to the A.B. and 
to the A.M. degrees ; and these degrees are worth just as much as they 
are in our country or in the colleges and universities of Europe. Then, 
again, there are many schools from which boys go on through the 
common grades and prepare for the colleges ; and that curriculum of 
study means a ten years' course. In Allahabad there are 350 boys 
thus preparing in the schools, in Lahore 850, and in other cities of 
India a proportionate number in these high schools. 

Then we have the lower vernacular schools, in which no English at 
all is taught. In these there are 600 boys in Lahore alone. We use 
every means to carry this work forward. All denominations are en- 
gaged in this commendable work. The EngUsh Baptists and the Pres- 
byterians are very zealous in carrying this good work forward. Now 
there is a great call for teachers for this work ; it may be made most 
interesting. Robert Nevins has just sent a letter urging for teachers, 
offering to give them a house and 115 rupees, almost |60; and the 
school or mission may be made safer, as the salary is increased by an 
income from the school. Now we need these teachers. We need 



63 

some men of high attainments able to carry the young men up to 
every degree — we have a call for such teachers. I do not know if 
teachers will be sent out at once. We need to bring these young men 
under our influence. The teachers can get more influence over them 
than the preachers, if preaching alone. They can influence them 
wholly. 

And now, just a word to our teachers in the work among the 
Hindoos only. There are the schools for the women in the zenanas, 
where only girls and women are taught. Now we need young women 
very much in these. The appeal for these is greater than I can state 
it to you — multiply it by one hundred and you will realize something 
of its great need. 

Mrs. Capron then spoke as follows : — 

I am sure that any lady desiring a larger sphere than she has fol- 
lowed in this country will find it in India and in the responsibiUty 
attached to the instruction of the women of India. I beUeve the 
women of India are sympathetic and intelligent. I believe, when they 
are once alive to another life, to the life of the Christians, they will 
cast away all their old superstitions. To this end all our education 
tends — the education of the young girls in the schools, in the houses, 
talking with their mothers, their aunts and sisters ; all these gathered 
together, and the Lord Jesus looking down upon them and upon our 
work to bless it. We are just waiting until all shall be ready, and 
then one and another, and another still, will lead the life of the Chris- 
tian. From Cape Cormorin, in 1856, the work began, and it still 
progresses. In India all the ladies work among the women and the 
girls, and the work is most inspiring. What a wonderful sphere of 
labor this is ! Another thing, I used often to say, " We love these 
women of India, giving our lives for them." Nothing moves them so 
much as to see us going from this country to aid them, Jesus helping 
us. It was very interesting to me on one occasion when I heard a 
Hindoo woman say to her daughter, — this woman you call a heathen, 
but I do not like that name, — in reference to another missionary, "The 
talk is different, but the meaning is the same." And that responsive 
heart of that Hindoo woman recognized the fact of the bond of love 
between us, and knew that we " meant the same." 

Question. Has woman's work broken down the caste in India ? 

Answer. (Mrs. Capron). Women's work will break it down just 
so far and fast as the love for Christianity comes into the work. Yes ; 
I think so. I have often been amused at the way that one of our 
missionaries — one of our Bible women — described the visit she paid 
to a house : she sat on one side of the room on one mat, and the other 



64 

woman on the other side of the room on another mat; but after a while 
the two sat on the one mat, which means a great deal. 

Q. Do you find the women eager to learn ? 

A. (Mrs. Capron). I think the young girls have been very eager 
to learn, and consequently the mothers and aunts, finding the young 
folks have learned these things, they have talked together and felt they 
could not be left in the distance ; and, once having begun with us, they 
have never yet said to us, " We have heard enough." They read the 
Bible. One thousand women in Madras were learning to read ; and I 
never knew one to lay down the Bible and say, " Oh, yes ; we are edu- 
cated." Yes ; they are eager to learn. 

Q. I would like to learn how lady physicians are received. 

A. (Mrs. Capron). There is a wonderful sphere in India for lady 
physicians. I do not know how you can reach so great a number of 
women as in that way. This being shut up all night in the house and 
having numbers of women about you brings you in the closest contact 
with them. I have sat whole nights and talked with them, of nothing 
but the wonderful things of the Lord. "We always reach the heart 
through suffering, which suggests His suffering, which was greater than 
physical agony. 

Q. Was there as much prejudice and conceit among the women 
of India as among the men ? 

A. (Mrs. Capron). I should say quite as much, if we take into 
consideration all things. I think, there is a strong superstition, I think 
it hardly worth the name of prejudice ; but this is passing away, as 
other generations are now coming on ; and, when a young man about 
to be married asks for a Bible to present to his bride because his 
mother had had one and it made her so good and gentle, I should call 
that doing away with prejudice. 

Chairman : — 

Let me state a short instance upon that point. I think, if Mrs. 
Qapron had not been a woman, she might have said that women are 
more prejudiced than men. They are in general far more faithful to 
their religion than men are. Just one instance has come to my mind, 
which I will narrate. One of our missionaries had a baptismal service, 
and a native wanted to be baptized. The native said his wife was not 
ready and would not be baptized then, but that he would. He said his 
wife was outside and would not come in. The missionary looked for 
the wife and found her outside, looking in the window. At first she 
would not come in; finally she consented to do so. She held a 
baby in her arms, which she said she was going to keep on her side, 
and which she would not allow to be baptized. He wanted her to 



65 

come in and sit while the services were going on, which she finally 
did. Then he asked her if she would allow him to baptize the baby ; 
and at last she consented to this. Then he said to her, " Won't you 
hold the baby while I baptize it, that it raaj not cry." She finally 
agreed to this. And then he went on with the other exercises : he 
baptized the father and the older children. Then lie at last asked her 
if she would not allow him to baptize her, and she cried out, " Yes ; I 
must be baptized, too ; I cannot help it." 

llrs. Jennie Fuller, of Akola, India, made the following address : — 

A few years ago we had a refuge for girls. We undertook to have 
one for boys also on the same plan. With God to help us, we went 
on and established a shoj) containing carpenter and shoemaking depart- 
ments. All the influential Brahmins opposed it, on the ground that 
the different castes of boys would prevent their working together, and 
that it would not succeed. But we went on ; and after a while we had 
two high-caste boys both shoemaking. God has wonderfully prospered 
us. In the two years we have been carrying this on we have gathered 
twenty-four boys, and nine of that number are engaged in making 
shoes. We did add a tailor, but that was not a success. There was 
one boy's mat, and we had to cut that mat in two, as no two Hindoo 
boys would sit on the same mat, but after a while all sat there together 
in peace. 

The shoemaking dej)artment has become self-supporting.' It has 
earned wages, and does a good repairing business ; and we have a good 
custom among the English people. 

The carpentering work has been slower, as they find it hard to learn 
the use of the plane and to handle tools well enough to ensure success 
as yet. I hope it may be self-supporting. 

We had one lay brother with us from Dakota who knew four 
trades. He also teaches blacksmithing. That, together with the addi- 
tional trades he knows, leads him to hope to establish a good business 
outside, — an independent business, — and form a sort of industrial 
center, so that, when the boys who have learned these trades marry, 
they may be able to support themselves, by working at these trades, 
entirely through their own resources. 

Question. Is the industrial phase on the whole a success ? 

Answer. I believe the industrial work on the whole has not yet 
proved a success ; but the American Board is making a strenuous effort 
in that direction, and has already established an industrial plant at 
Sirur, and proposes to have similar plants in Northern India. Last 
week Cawnpore followed by having industrial work inaugurated there. 



66 



Dr. Graham ; 



I never studied medicine, but -when I went to my last field of labor, 
■which was some thirty miles from Cawnpore, the natives came to me 
and asked me to give them medicine ; and one can always do that, to 
a certain extent, provided he is supplied with a few simple medicines 
which will enable him to carry on this necessary practice. If you have 
a bottle of quinine, some sulphur, a few bilious pills, and some other 
very simple remedies, you can get a great reputation — such a reputa- 
tion as any doctor in America would be very proud of. I began prac- 
ticing medicine on men needing very simple remedies, and the few 
cases were successfully treated, and the persons were cured. The 
result was that, inside of one month, I had men coming to me with 
every manner of disease. All these wanted treatment. I had to teU 
them I had received no training as a physician. That made no differ- 
ence. I was expected to give treatment just the same. There was 
one case that I shall never forget. A man came to me and said, " You 
have treated so-and-so, and I want you to give me some medicine." I 
said to him : " Now, if I should tell you that I could give you medi- 
cine and cure you, and that I know how to do so, I would not be telling 
you the truth. I never studied medicine, and I cannot give you this 
medicine that you want." But he stUl persisted that I could ; but I 
did not, and I left him. But he would not and did not go home ; and 
when night drew on he was stUl there, imploring me for medicine. At 
last he said: "Give me medicine or kill me. I want medicine from 
you." 

Most of the natives of India have more confidence in physicians 
from Christian countries, especially missionaries, than anybody else. 
They will take it from such with more confidence, because they think 
there is more merit in the person giving it. This has been my experi- 
ence. A year and a half ago a medical missionary was sent there. Of 
course, not speaking the language, he was unable to have any dealings 
with the natives, and so I was with him in his work. In a short time 
he had so many people coming to him that from morning till night he 
was busied with them. 

I remember the first surgical operation he performed. It was upon 
a Mohammedan. This Mohanunedan had a tumor in his side and 
wanted it removed. In India, especially in our part of the country, 
there is a great aversion to the use of the knife. This man at last con- 
sented to an operation. I sat by him ; and I did pray most earnestly 
that it might prove a success, for I knew if the physician failed it would 
injure his work permanently, and that all future work would receive a 
damper in India among the natives. As he went under the anesthetic 
he began to rave and cry out. His brother said, " That is enough ; 



we will stop." But a friend who was with them urged him to go on. 
He did ; and the operation was successful. I never saw a more grate- 
ful man than he was. He never met either of us afterwards without 
showering thanks upon us. 

I remember the second operation that was performed. It was for 
a Brahmin, and was also successful. A very nice little note was sent, 
with a fee for the services. The fee was not very large, but it was 
very fair to be received from a native. But I shall never forget the 
words of that letter. He said, " Accept this as an expression of grati- 
tude, and I will make up the rest in prayers." It is in this way that 
the missionary goes everywhere into the families and homes of the 
natives ; otherwise it would be impossible to enter the homes. Good 
men and good women with a knowledge of medicine can find an 
entrance into the homes of India as no others can. The natives will 
avail themselves of his medical knowledge, which they feel certain a 
medical missionary possesses. 

I have just lately heard from Dr. Wanless and his wife, who were 
the first volunteers I ever saw. When I heard of the volunteer Move- 
ment in America, for some time I felt grave doubts about it. I 
thought too much was expected of such a movement ; and, in a certain 
sense I was not prepared to comprehend it until we received three of 
them to our own number. I saw at once that they were moved by 
the Spirit of God. And what we need in India is a great outpouring 
of that Spirit. The field is ready for the harvest : it only rests with 
the reapers to do their share towards the great work. We need God's 
Spirit to bless it. 

In the station where Dr. Wanless and his wife has been he has 
had 4,642 patients, and during the last year he has had over 10,000 
visits from these persons. If he had had the strength he could have 
multiplied this number. Any man receiving his benefit will come to 
him again for help. I believe there is no medical missionary north of 
Dr. Wanless for 150 miles, to the east for 450, none on the south until 
you reach the territory crossing the Ghauts. There is plenty of room 
there for medical work. 

I will state that while the government dispensaries will give them 
medicine freely, yet the natives are afraid of them, and can hardly be 
got to go to them ; but they will gladly go to a missionary, because he 
does this good work for affection, and the government servants take 
compensation for this business from the government. So the govern- 
ment work does not touch ours. 



Mr. J. P. Jones spoke as follows : — 

We have gone very extensively in Madras into medical work, not 
neglecting the educational part, which we believe of great importance. 
We believe, however, that the evangelical work should precede, and 
the educational should follow not far off. We have gone more into 
evangelism than into the other ; and we find, as we go from village 
to village and from town to town, that we reach a great number of 
people. We have now an agency which does this work. Our work is 
more entii-ely in superintendence. We have 445 or 448 agents work- 
ing with us or under our superintendence. We start off a missionary 
who will go from twenty to forty miles in a day, taking with him eight 
or ten of our best native preachers, and they will preach in from ten to 
thirty villages in a day, meeting from twenty to forty thousand jDeople 
in a day sometimes. Sometimes they will, perhaps, spend from eight 
to ten days right in the villages among the people in their houses or 
homes. There will not be any immediate conversions ; but we see that 
the seed is sown, and it will spring up in time. We find now as never 
before a readiness to listen. Their minds are quickened : they now 
compare religions and notice the distinctions. Formerly they did not 
do that. Now we find that the people sometimes oppose us. I have 
seen a man standing on the opposite side of the street from where I 
had gathered a crowd, and he has tried to oppose my preaching ; and 
he has begun to call out in the native tongue a name for Krishna, so 
that I had to give up our meeting and go away. We have changed 
our tactics, and in this evangelical work we now do differently. We 
have now ceased that contradictory method ; we do not abuse heathen- 
ism, we do not attack Hindooism. I find all over that land so many 
distracting agencies at work — civilization, education, that is, Western 
education — all these at work in the minds of the people. We try to 
present rehgion in another way ; and there is less opposition where we 
do not attack theu' faith, and we find it lessening here. There seems 
to be a right mind to receive a good deal of the truth if properly pre- 
sented. 

In the city of Madras I have four parties in four different places 
each Monday evening. If you could meet with me in my large room 
you would see some twenty-five men, mostly young men, who are 
teachers in our high school, catechists, and preachers. We dwell on 
the subject given out at the beginning of the month. I ask this or 
that man what he thinks about this subject, and each gives his idea ; 
and so we have an interchange of thought. We have prayer and 
singing, and then we part. The following evening we meet and begin 
with singing. Then another party meets in the beautiful schoolhouse 
which Mrs. Capron built in Madi-as ; and another party, and still an- 



69 

other, meets in the boys' schools at the south gate of the city. And 
they begin to sing their hymns ; the people commence to gather. Five 
minutes are devoted to singing ; then five minutes to speaking ; then 
five minutes to the beautiful lyrics. And so it continues : five or six 
minutes to preaching, and the same period of time to singing ; and the 
addresses are full of life and vigor. And so we proceed in this way 
to reach the hearts of the people, by this vigorous method. There are 
other schools for the means of reaching the boys and girls through the 
Bible women. In all these departments we are doing grand work in 
building a solid foundation for the Lord in that place. 

The Sunday School work in India presents one of the grandest 
themes for 'evangelistic work. I would speak of this in addition to 
what our brother said yesterday of f)reaching to 100,000 children in 
India in the Sunday Schools. In India there are 75,000,000 children 
between five and fifteen years of age, and one of the most beautiful 
things about this is that we can have just as many Sunday Schools as 
we can get teachers to teach them. We have so many in the little 
towns where I go and work that we have these Sunday Schools 
through the week. We can get room to hold them all, for we can 
find plenty of trees under which to sit down. There is a great door 
open to us all over India. It was something a few years ago that 
we did not think possible. We can gather the children into the fold : 
it is the children we must strive to impress particularly. There is a 
little incidental recall to mind, and which impressed me deeply. An 
old man said one day, when his friends were chiding him for talking 
to me, and were asking him, " Are you going to be a Christian ? " — 
the old man replied sadly, " They do not want old people like me ; 
they want the children and the young people." 

This is a vast field for Sunday School work. Teachers can teach 
in English. On Christmas Day and other Christian festivals we make 
much of the occasion, and gather all the children we can. We have 
hundreds in our yard sitting around. The Bible reading and Sunday 
School supplement the educational work ; and this is one of the most 
important things we have to consider. And I pray every day of my 
life for the children of India. 

JEvenitiff Session. 

In the devotional exercises, the Rev. D. C. Rankin, Secretary of 
Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church South, offered prayer, 
and the Rev. A. J. Gordon, D. D., made the following remarks : — 

Dear brethren, I confess that I withdraw from this Convention with 
sincere reluctance. I have been exceedingly profited and stirred by 
what I have been permitted to hear to-day. What I have to say will 
be in the form of two or three practical exhortations. 



70 

What is our greatest need ? First of all, we need more missionary 
pastors. If all pastors were missionary pastors we should have all the 
missionary money that we need. I almost wished I could have heard 
words this afternoon, not simply for the great, the strong, the highly 
endowed, but a few words to those whose powers and attainments were 
of a humbler sort. It is not simply the man, but the spirit and purpose 
of the man, that determines what the ministry of Jesus Christ shall 
accomplish. I believe that a small minister with a great Gospel can 
accomplish more than a great minister with a small Gospel. Let every 
pastor, whatever his sphere, his attainments, his surroundings, make it 
his first business to use his church for a missionary church, and I be- 
lieve God will bless that church. Pastor Harms, with his ten thousand 
gathered into that one church, and he not a great man, is just a 
living illustration for all time of what God will do for a pastor and a 
a people when they make missions their first business. 

I say, secondly, we need more missionary churches. Yea, I say 
that we need missionary churches for the purpose of perpetuating 
those churches and preventing them from dying out. A church that 
ceases to be a missionary church will very soon become a missing 
church. I live in a city of extinct volcanoes, as somebody has said, — 
of churches that have burned out. The names and organizations 
are there, but for years the power has been gone. And if you ask 
why, you find out that simply because these churches became self- 
centered and occupied themselves with attending to their own affairs, 
building up their spiritual life, and forgetting that it was their great 
mission to give the Gospel to the world, — so ceasing to be evangelistic 
they have ceased to be evangelical. 

The life of the church depends upon its being a missionary church. 
I believe to-day that if those eminent theologians who lived upon the 
coast of Africa, and who wrote so grandly upon theological themes, — 
men, like Augustine, and Cyprian, and TertuUian, — had made it then- 
business to carry the Gospel into Central Africa with all the zeal and 
earnestness they gave to settling theological problems, Africa to-day, 
instead of being the Dark Continent, might have been the Light 
Continent, and instead of containing the open sore of the world, might 
have had planted in it the tree of life, whose leaves are for the healing 
of the nations. I believe that the Gospel died out in Africa from the 
fact that these men gave themselves to theological speculation instead 
of to the great purpose for which they were appointed of evangelizing 
the world. 

And now, just a word to those whose hearts burn within them to 
preach the Gospel in the regions beyond. Let us understand what our 
commission is. Pardon me if I say I do not believe our commission is 



71 

to bring the world to Christ, but to bring Christ to the world. What 
is the difference, you say ? You will find that to lift the world is a 
great lift ; but if you get hold of Jesus Christ, that is a different matter. 
You have Him with you always ; and when you carry Him to the world, 
instead of carrying Him, He carries you. " Take my yoke upon you," 
said Christ, and some one has said, " it shall become as wings to a bird, 
and as sails to a ship." God will take care that the world is brought to 
Christ, if we wiU carry Christ to the world. 

Supposing I touch just a moment upon another point, about which 
there may be some controversy. I say, it is our business to preach the 
Gospel in all the world, among all nations. "• Ah, that is superficial ! " 
you say. But is it ? Are not we perfectly agreed that there is going 
to be a great outpouring of God's Spirit upon all flesh? "And it shall 
come to pass afterward that I will pour out my Spirit upon all flesh." 
God maintains vessels to contain His Spirit and distribute it. What 
did Jesus Christ say about the Holy Spirit ? " Whom the world cannot 
receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him. But ye know 
him, because he dwelleth with you and shall be in you." God wants us 
to do just what Jesus commanded us to do — to preach the Gospel in 
all nations for a witness. And when the great outpouring comes there 
will be all over the world these vessels that will take it up and dis- 
tribute it among those yet unsaved. Literally, He vtdll pour out His 
Spirit. 0, the blessedness of doing this work for Christ, and in that 
work being thus intimately Unked with Him who was the first great 
missionary ! When Dr. Pierson and I were in Scotland I came upon 
something one day that startled me. It was that Uttle white stone, in 
Melrose Castle, on which was written the simple inscription, "The 
Heart of Bruce." And instantly it came to me what that meant. 
You know the heart of Bruce was taken out by his request. He said : 
" When I am dead, take out my heart. Let my successor, when he 
goes into battle, carry this heart fastened with a chain about his neck, 
that you may understand when you are fighting that Bruce is stUl with 
you." And so his successor carried the heart of the great warrior into 
battle ; and one day when they were beginning to break ranks and 
scatter he took out the heart of Bruce and swung it into the ranks of 
the enemy and said, " Go forth, heart of Bruce ; we will follow thee or 
die." And they routed the enemy. So Jesus Christ has thrown His 
heart into the world, and we go after it. Is there any sublimer or 
higher honor than to be a missionary of Jesus Christ ? 

And now let us think, just in a word, what our joy is in, that great 
commission. Let us remember, first of all, that God has not simply a 
select body that shall be preachers and another body to be hearers, and 
a select body to be missionaries and another body to be the objects of 



72 

the labor of these missionaries ; but he has made all to be kings and 
priests, and all of us to be missionaries. Jesus says to every sinner, 
" Come," and he says to every Christian, " Go," without distinction. 
I believe in the universal offer of the Gospel ; therefore he says to 
every sinner, " Come." And I believe in the universal priesthood of 
every Christian. "Come, see the place where the Lord lay." "Go 
quickly and tell His disciples that He is risen from the dead." We 
cannot go until we come, and after we have come, if we have the Spirit 
of Christ, we cannot help going. Think of our resouixes, our endow- 
ment ! What is it? "All power in heaven and in earth." What is 
our field ? The world : " Go ye into all the world." And what is our 
testimony ? All the Gospel : " Teaching them to observe'; all things 
whatsoever I have commanded." And what is our consecrated inher- 
itance of time ? " Lo, I am with you every day " — " all the days," 
according to the Revised Version ; not simply speaking of time in an 
abstract way, but all the days, — the cloudy days, the bright days, — 
" I am with you all the days, unto the end of the world." And may 
God help us to be out and^out for Him, and help us to remember that 
it is not in the greatness of our numbers but in the greatness of our 
consecration. 

In a burst of passion and eloquence, in which there was condensed 
wonderful wisdom, John Wesley said on one occasion, " Give me one 
hundred men — I ask for no more — who know nothing but Jesus Christ, 
who hate nothing but sin, and are determined to know nothing among 
men but Jesus Christ and him crucified, and with that one hundi-ed 
men, who know nothing else than preaching Christ, I will set the 
world on fire." May God give us so much of the Spuit that we our- 
selves shall be worthy to be counted into that triumphant hundi-ed, 
and may God pour out his Spirit marvelously upon these young men ; 
and may he so fill you with the Holy Ghost that when you go forth to 
your fields you shall know what it is to labor in the power of the 
Spirit, so that your toil will be triumph" and your verj- defeats victory. 

I was looking over this great company this afternoon, wondering 
what would be the history of these young men and women. There is 
one thing, dear friends, that I have to say — that it does not matter 
what our history is if we are consecrated to the Lord Jesus Christ. 
That is one of the joys of missionary service, that our reward does not 
depend upon success. The Master does not say, " Well done, good 
and successful servant," but " Well done, good and faithful servant." 
There is a beautiful face, so much so that if you have once seen it you will 
never forget it, that of the young man who is called the pioneer mis- 
sionary of the Congo, Adam McCaU. He went forth in the vigor of 
young manhood to preach the Gospel on the Congo, and died, and 



73 

when dying said, -what ought never to be forgotten : " Lord Jesvis, I 
consecrated my life to preach the Gospel to these poor Africans, but if 
it has pleased Thee to take me instead of the service which I proposed 
and promised to render, what is that to me ? Thy will be done." May 
God help us so to be in the will of God that nothing can defeat us, 
daunt us, or discourage us. 

The Chairman read a telegram of greeting from the New Jersey 
State Convention of the Young Men's Christian Association, after 
which Mr. Robert E. Speer made the first address of the evening on 
the topic — 

The EvAiSTGELIZATION OF THE WOELD IN THE PeESEXT GeXEEA- 

TioN" — A Possibility. 

One of the singular things is the power that can be centered in a 
catch-word. There have been great political crises turned by some 
clever phrase that gathered up into itself the passions of human hearts 
and swept along with it the deej) tides of human action. There has 
been more than one time in history when some few words aptly phrased 
did great things for or against God. And it is only an illustration of 
the better side of this truth that in the day in which we are living this 
watchword, about which we are to think and speak to-night, has 
gathered up into it the devotion of a great many hearts who follow 
the banner of Jesus Christ — The Evangelization of the World in 
this Generation. 

I am to speak this evening upon the possibility of this evangeliza- 
tion, and it seems to me of the very greatest importance that at the out- 
set you and I especially, my fellow students, should know what we mean 
when we speak of the evangelization of the world. Vv"e do not mean 
the conversion of the world. However much or little it niay be in 
God's purpose to win this world unto Himself ; however many souls 
He may be gathering out of each foreign field tOjHimself ; and how- 
ever much it may be our effort to win individual souls to Jesus Christ, 
— we do not take as the watchword of this Movement the conversion 
of the world in this generation. If that phrase means anything at all, 
it means the conversion of all the individuals in the world, and with 
conversion in itself you and I have absolutely nothing to do. So I 
think you may take it at the outset that when we speak of the possibil- 
ity of the evangelization of the world in this generation, we are not 
to be misunderstood as implying the conversion of the world. 

N"or, in the second place, do I think that any of the student volun- 
teers mean the Christianization of the world. Many times we are 
told, in this day, that the end of missionary work is to carry the civili- 



74 

zation of our land into every heathen land ; and I am sure that we 
believe that that is the result of missionary work, and that it can be 
obtained in no other way than by missionary work. But the Christian- 
ization of the world and the civilization of the world are not the 
ambitions of the Student Volunteer Movement, and no intelligent 
volunteer seeks to claim that the watchword of this Movement means 
either the Christianization or the civilization of the world in this gen- 
eration. We do mean, however, that every intelligent, thoughtful, 
sincere volunteer believes in and prays for the evangelization of the 
world before we die, and by that simple phrase is meant simply this : 
the presenting of the Gospel in such a manner to every soul in this 
world that the responsibility for what is done with it shall no longer 
rest upon the Christian Church, or on any individual Christian, but 
shall rest on each man's head for himself. 

Now, sometimes we are told that this takes away a great deal of 
the dignity from the missionary purpose. But if this is the purpose 
which our Lord Jesus set in his Book for the missionary work of the 
Church in the world, I think we may well afford to have any dignity 
taken away that does not attach to the conception of missionary work 
that Christ had. And yet it is not a very narrow thing when we take 
into consideration the millions in the dark forests of Africa, the mil- 
lions more on the plains and in the mountains of Asia, and the millions 
more in the other darknesses of this world, who have never yet seen 
the face of any one who knew the Lord Jesus. 

May we make just this observation as we pass. Will you notice 
what an advantage this conception of our work gives us as we face 
those who make the objection that there is work enough to do at 
home ? Under this conception of the work of the Church, this land, 
Great Britain, and some other Christian lands have been practically 
evangelized already ; and as long as our work is evangelization merely, 
these lands, however great their need may be in our eyes, have, com- 
paratively speaking, generally lost their claims upon us. Let me say 
yet once more that, however m.uch this conception of missionary work 
may be bound up with the convictions you may have as to the time of 
our Lord's return, and however impossible it may be to gather together 
into one those parties that believe different things about the time of 
Christ's coming, there is no excuse whatever for transferring the dis- 
advantages of the incompatibility of those two views to these concep- 
tions of missionary work. The man who believes in the evangelization 
of the world does not necessarily lose sympathy with all efforts for 
establishing colleges, or for making the work permanent. It is largely 
a matter of emphasis. The man who wishes to evangelize the world 
will certainly do that other kind of work too, because he wants to 



75 

make his evangelization permanent ; and the man who does that other 
kind of work will certainly do evangelistic work, because it is the only 
way by which he can do that other work. So you need not jump ■ to 
the conclusion that there is opposition between the purpose of this 
work and that of those who have more permanent and institutional 
views of missionary effort. 

One thing more before we face the question of possibility. Our 
position on the question of possibility will be largely determined by 
our views of its desirability. If we do not think we want the world 
evangelized, we will not have to search far before we find it impossible 
to evangelize it. But if to-night, face to face with our glorified Master, 
we catch His Spirit, hear His word, and are willing to do His will, and 
will open our hearts a little to catch that other cry that comes across 
the seas to-night from every heathen land, I do not think we can 
refrain from brushing away a great many objections to the possibility 
of the evangelization of the world in this generation that may now 
confront our view. 

In the first place, then, the evangelization of the world in this 
generation is a possibility, so far as the world is concerned. There is 
nothing in this wide world apart from the Church and the Head of the 
Church that renders it in the slightest manner an impossible thing to 
evangelize the world in this generation. 

A hundred years ago it might not have been so ; but what a con- 
trast between that day and now ! Many, many lands then not open to 
the gospel ; and now — with perhaps one or two exceptions, and the 
doors of those probably pretty soon to be thrown open to the Christian 
Church — not a land in which we may not go and preach the glad 
tidings of Jesus Christ. One hundred years ago the Bible was access- 
ible, so far so the human languages in which it was printed were con- 
cerned, to only one-fifth of the human race ; now it is printed in over 
three hundred tongues, and spoken by over nine-tenths of the popula- 
tion of the whole world. A hundred years ago not a missionary vessel 
steamed in any waters. In the vast majority of heathen lands a Chris- 
tian man's face was never seen. But to-day the Chi-istian Church 
stands, so far as the open door is concerned in the world, at the Kadesh 
Barnea of the ages. The promised land is in full view before her, 
and the Lord of Hosts is giving the command to every man to go up 
straight before him and take possession. 

There is no difficulty with regard to the foreign field, so far as the 
acceptance and understanding of the Gospel on the part of the heathen 
are concerned. If one thing has been demonstrated more clearly than 
anything else it is, that the fact which Mark records, that the common 
people heard Jesus gladly, is true to-day ; because, in the heathen lands 



76 

no less than in tMs land, all men are competent to understand, and 
poor and degraded men are specially ready to accept, the Gospel of 
Jesus Christ. I know we are sometimes told that a Gospel from which 
we have taken all things that are miraculous, but which after that won- 
derful subtraction still has God in it, is the best Gospel we can take to 
the heathen world. But this is not the Gospel that has won the great- 
est triumphs this world has ever seen ; nor is it the Gospel that is to 
evangelize the world before your eyes and mine close in death. 

There is no impossibility suggested liy the Church's ignorance of 
the world's need. There never was a time when the need in all the 
world was so clear, so impressive, and so well kno'WTn to the Christian 
Church. Nor is there any impossibility, so far as this world is con- 
cerned, in the supposed unreadiness or unwillingness of the heathen to 
accept the Gospel. We have already heard more than one instance 
cited in this Convention of men in the foreign field who seemed to 
have been already touched by the Holy Spii'it to accept that Gospel 
when it came. He, whose Church was to embrace people out of every 
nation and kindred and people and tongue, hath not left Himself with- 
out some in every place who will respond to the Gospel of the King 
when it is brought by the ambassadors of the King's Son. So that, 
in the first place, there is nothing in the world to render impossible the 
evangelization of the woi'ld in this generation. It may be that some- 
times we think the heathen faiths stand like impassable barriers before 
us. I suppose the missionaries here to-night would say that all the 
heathen faiths of which they know anj'thing at all are crumbling away. 
Whatever the influences may be that are undermining them, still the 
great power of the King is shaping events for the coming of those who 
shall do greater things than even Jesus Hitaiself did, in the years that 
are very shortly to come. 

2. In the second place, the evangelization of the world in this 
generation is possible so far as the Church is concerned. In the first 
place, the Church has the agencies. There was a list made out just a 
little while ago in which it was shown there were sometliing like a 
hundred missionary societies in this country. We might increase it 
by a large number of missionary societies in other lands. There never 
was a time when missionary methods were so well developed as now, 
when so much priceless ex]perienee, bought often •v^'ith blood, had been 
gathered, and so much knowledge of missionary lands amassed as 
to-day and when all the machinery — if any machinery were necessary 
— seemed so ready to the hands of Christian men. 

In the second place, the Church has the agents ready. There are 
10,000,000 Protestant Christians in this land. Ought not 10,000,000 
Protestant Christians to be able to preach the Gospel inside of 30 



77 

years — the length of an ordinary generation — to a population a hun- 
dred times that number? We had out of every 77 ministers, until the 
last few years, only one going into the foreign field ; out of every 
5,000 Christian men only one entering the foreign work, and only one 
in 2,500 Christian women. 

Coming on the train from Pittsburg the other day was a young ' 
doctor who was not a Christian. He asked us where we were going. 
We said we were coming up to Cleveland to a missionary convention. 
" How are you able to give so much attention to the work abroad ? 
how is it that the Chm-ch wastes so much energy on the work abroad," 
he asked, " when there is so much to be done in this land of ours ? " 
I asked him what he would consider a fair propoi-tion of workers to 
keep in this land and a fair proportion to send abroa<L He said, " I 
supjDOse two-thirds here and one-third abroaii would be treating our- 
selves fairly." If we sent one-third of our workers abroad and kept 
the other two-thirds at home, we would more than ten-fold multiply 
the ordained missionaries in the heathen fields from all the Christian 
nations in the world, and would send 400,000 lay workers out into 
the foreign world, if we did what an unbelieving doctor said 
would be only a fair proportion to do with reference to this work. 
Would it not be piONsible, if 4iH),000 missionaries went out in the next 
twenty-five years, each one of them having out of the thousand mil- 
lion unevangelized people in this world only ^,500 to reach, who 
could be reached by spe.aking to only one a day for aliout eight years, 
to evangelize this world thoroughly before we die V I know it means 

a migrhtier consecration than the world has ever vet seen ; but the con- , 

. . . ..J 1 

seoration can come when we are willing. ~^ 

The Church, so far as educated men are concerned, has more than 
enough to evangelize the woi-ld before we die. Just the other evening 
reference was made to the 2,000,000 young men who will graduate 
from the higher institutions of learning, in this land, in this generation. 
If one out of every hundi-ed of them should go 20,000 would be sent 
into the foreign field. 20,000 men would be one to every 50,000 
people in the heathen world. In a generation, one missionary from 
this land, if supplied with the necessary means and with native helpers, 
could, without difficulty, have the gospel preached, and preached 
effectually, to every one of those 50,000 souls. 

In the third place, the Church of Jesus Christ has the means. I 
put it very low when I say that the wealth in the hands of Christian 
people in this land is not less than §12,000,000,000. To that sum 
every year, over and above all money spent for luxuries or given for 
benevolent purposes, or used in any other way, the Christian Church 
adds $500,000,000. Now, mark you, out of this $12,000,000,000, and 



78 

this added increase of $500,000,000 a year, we give about $5,000,000, 
perhaps a little over, to home and foreign missions put together. 

$5,000,000 is one twenty-fifth of one per cent, of the wealth of the 
Christian Church in this land, and only one per cent, of the money 
that is clear gain every year in the coffers of Christian people in this 
land. He asked for one-tenth of our wealth, — for the tenth, at least, 
of our income every year, — and we give Him only one per cent, of 
the amount of money we save over and above all expenses of every 
other kind. And this is for the Lord Himself, who owns every penny 
of the silver and the gold that you and I may ever hope to touch. 

Will you notice what we could give if we would ? Suppose we 
gave one-fiftieth of our savings every year, it would more than suffice 
to send out 10,000 missionaries. Suppose we gave a tithe merely of 
the money that we add each year to our wealth, it would suffice to send 
out into the foreign field 50,000 more missionaries. If the Protestant 
Christians of the world would give a penny a day each, it would 
amount to over $100,000,000 every year; and if they gave eight cents 
a day, it would more than suffice to send out those 400,000 missionaries, 
which even a skeptical man says the Church ought to, thrust forth im- 
mediately into the dark places of this world. 

Sometimes we say we are far beyond the position of our fathers. 
"We have not yet approximated to the place our fathers held. We give 
just one-half as many mUls on the dollar to-day as they gave in 
1840. We may give more money, but in the sight of Him who 
looks, and sees not only the gift but the motive and the proportion of 
it, it is only one-half as much according to our ability as we gave fifty 
years ago. We contrast it with other things, and say we are giving 
bountifully. Do you know that if we added up all the money we have 
, given for the evangelization of the world since the beginning of this 
I century, it would not amount to more than $75,000,000, — less, by far, 
than the drink bill of this nation for thirty days. And, facing all these 
things too, we have to remember lastly, as touching the means in our 
power, that the Church of God in this land has money enough buried 
in rings, jewelry, and useless ornaments, in gold and luxuiies that we 
might easily dispense with, to thrust forth missionaries sufficient to 
cover every field in this world more completely than even the most 
sanguine missionary has ever dared to pray for ; to print the Bible in 
such abundance that it might be flung broadcast over the world ; and, 
within fifteen years, to flash the Gospel light around the world. 

I speak of only one thing more as touching the ability of the 
Church, and that is its power of prayer. Never, in all the histoiy of 
the world, has the Church crossed the threshold of its privileges in 
prayer. Never, up to this very day, have we been spiritually and 



79 

wisely selfish enough to lay hold on that might of God which He 
offers to us if we would only be faithful enough to draw on Him. 

I pause to say that if this were a human issue there would be no 
doubt of its possibility. When we remember that each year Europe 
maintains in standing armies three hundred and thirty-three times as 
many men and spends nine hundred times as much money as the cause 
of foreign missions obtains, we are sure that if this work of evangeliz- 
ation were a miUtary or worldly movement, men and money would be 
poured out in bountiful abundance to accomplish it speedily. Wars 
and financial crises demand and secure unlimited sacrifices. The last 
great war between England and France cost $4,000,000,000. The 
costs of our civil war were immensely more than enough to evangeUze 
the world, so far as money is concerned in the problem. The recent 
Baring failure illustrated how quickly millions of pounds could be 
raised to save a banking house. Is not the question of the world's 
evangeUzation of far more transcendent importance ? Shall we value 
men's sovereigns more than their souls? If this were a task set 
before some human government, the question of its feasibility would 
not be raised. 

It is said that the census of London is taken in one day. The 
statement of the theme this evening allows over 10,000 days to evan- 
gelize the world. I remind you of the remark of the English soldier, 
who replied, when a proclamation was put in his hands with the ques- 
tion, " How long would it take you with all the forces of England at 
your disposal to give this proclamation to every soul in the world ? " 
" I think we could manage it in about eighteen months." Eighteen 
months ! And he was the subject of a human sovereign, thinking of 
a human issue. 

3. But this is not a human issue. God is in it. I have said that 
there is nothing in the world or the Church, except its disobedience, to 
render the evangelization of the world in this generation an impossi- 
bility ; and now, in the third place, it is possible so far as God is con- 
cerned. N"ay more, it finds its pledge and inspiration in Him. We 
often talk as though God was not interested in this question. We 
enumerate our human forces and look over the field to be possessed, 
and, just as we are hopeful or despondent, say it can or cannot be 
done. But this leaves out the mightiest force of all. You recall the 
question said to have been asked Luther by his wife in one of his 
despairing moods, — a question, I beUeve, alleged to have been ad- 
dressed to Frederick Douglass also, by Sojourner Truth, — "Is God 
dead?" I repeat it to those of you who doubt and hesitate to-night: 
" Is God dead ? " If we cannot rely on Him I am willing to surrender 
the whole question. But who has arranged the condition of affairs 



80 

that I have described ? Is not the hand of God plain in them ? From 
the beginning He had us in mind upon whom the ends are come. The 
long years of progress, at times painfully slow, are culminating now. 
The walls of exclusion are broken down. Light stations break the 
gloom of nearly every land. The fortress of the enemy has not long 
security in the future years. The field is arranged for, the final con- 
flict — perhaps a long one, but is it less final therefore ? The General 
unrolls His plan of campaign. Will you take a grasp of His con- 
quering hand and go forth to the mighty struggle ? Oh, my fellow 
students ! the power of God in this work has never yet been tested. 
Once tap those measureless sources, and what we speak of as a possi- 
bility/ to-night will be before our eyes a glorious reality. 

It will be objected, doubtless, that all this is childish and visionary. 
It is. I rejoice in the charge ; for " Where there is no vision the 
people perish," and " except ye be converted and become as little 
children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven." 

What then remains, if all this is true ? This : that it is high time to 
awake out of sleep, and, banding ourselves with new and deep)er 
devotion, to swing out on the currents of God's purpose, to accomplish 
our mission in the world. Are you ready then, fellow students, to 
throw your lives in with this watch-cry : " Christ to the world before 
we die " ? Can you endure the thought of anything else in the presence 
of the thorn-crowned One, who died not for our sins only but for the 
sins of the whole world '? 

Apart from all else that may be said, may these great testimonies 
abide in our hearts from this evening : the dying words of Simeon Cal- 
houn, "It is my deep conviction, and I say it again and again, that if 
the Church of Christ were what she ought to be, twenty years would not 
pass away till the story of the Cross would be uttered in the ears of 
every living creature " ; the assertion of Lord Shaftsbury, that in the 
latter part of these eighteen centuries, the Church of Christ has had men 
enough and money enough to have evangelized the world fifty times 
over ; and the words of One greater than they all, aye, greater than 
all kings and princes, seated to-night above all principality and power, 
and dominion, and every name that is named, who in the days of His 
flesh, after His interview with the woman of Sychar, looked out over 
the plain upon His returning disciples and the townspeople who accom- 
panied them, — sheep scattered abroad, a flock mthout a shepherd, — 
and said to them as they di-ew near, as He says to you and me to-night : 
" Say not ye, there are yet four months, and then cometh harvest ? 
behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes and look upon the fields ; for 
they are white already to the harvest. And he that reapeth receiveth 
wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal : that both he that soweth 
and he that reapeth may rejoice together." 



81 

Rev. A. T. Pierson, D.D., then addressed the Convention on — 

The Evangelization of the Woeld in the Present Genera- 
tion, — Hovp Made a Fact. 

This is a council of war. In the tent of the Commander we are 
gathered, and the Commander-in-chief is here. Here are his subordi- 
nates, the heads of departments, the under captains, and here are the 
volunteers in the army. And the question for consideration is. How 
can the marching orders of this invisible Captain be carried out 
promptly and energetically? And nothing but this council of war 
would have brought me here to-night. This is to my mind a very 
august occasion. 

Our great Commander-in-chief has supplied the material basis, if I 
may so call it, for the progress of our work. As you have already heard, 
we do not need to ask or answer certain preliminary questions — the 
question, for instance, of access to the heathen world no longer per- 
plexes us ; for from the time that the sun shall rise on the Morning 
Empire of the Rising Sun, all through his marvelous circuit of the 
heavens, until he shall close the day on Pacific shores on our own land, 
his beams will scarcely dart upon a single stronghold of Satan, or a 
single hamlet, into the midst of which the Church is not free to go 
to-day if she will. Nor need we ask the question as to the means of 
approach to these distant people. I can start to-night from the city of 
Cleveland, and within six weeks be exactly at the antipodes of where 
I now stand. Lightning and steam have yoked themselves to the char- 
iot of the Church of God, and the chariot of God's Church can speed 
where she will. 

In the presence of the facilities, instrumentalities, and implements 
which God has given us, the question. Can we bring the Gospel into 
contact with these people ? need not even be asked. The Marquis of Wor- 
cester, who wrote a book on the sixteenth century, called it the century 
of inventions; and Dryden wrote a poem on the year 1666, which he 
called Annus Mirahilis — the wonderful year. And yet, in this nine- 
teenth century, there have been packed into a single decade, events 
more magnificently grand than were crowded into the whole of the 
sixteenth century; and there have been single years in this century — 
like 1853, 1858, 1878 — that embraced events so magnificent that they 
might have filled a decade of the most prosperous years of the world's 
history, if not indeed a century of such prosperity. Science is the 
handmaid to piety in these days. She offers us every facility that even 
the imagination of man could have suggested to accomplish this war- 
fare of the ages. It may be that twenty-five years hence we shall be 
navigating the air as now the waters. No forecast can possibly exhaust 



82 

the possibilities of even a decade of human history at this supreme 
hour of human progress. 

Now, there is a natural basis for the world's evangelization. That 
natural basis is the human side of the whole world, in contrast to the 
supernatural. It has already been so powerfully presented that I need 
only to advert to it. The natural basis consists in three things — men, 
money, and methods. We must have workmen ; we must have means 
to send them and support them in the field ; and we must have proper, 
adequate business methods by which to bring the force and the field 
into permanent and feasible connection. 

Now, I have just one word to say to you, in addition to all the 
garnering of mighty facts which have been before you, as to men. It 
is a very easy thing to demonstrate that instead of six or seven thou- 
sand missionaries in the field to-day from Christian countries, we might 
easily have 400,000 missionaries from Christian lands, and yet have a 
hundred members at home for every member of a Protestant church 
that went to foreign fields. And as to means, I am ashamed to say 
that without touching one of our necessities, without touching the 
staple of our life, without interfering with proper raiment or housing, 
we can give $600,000,000 within six months to carry on th^ evangeli- 
zation of the world. Suppose we begin simply with our luxuries. It 
has been estimated that in Protestant Christian nations there is at least 
$100 worth of luxuries on the average to each church member. That 
makes the astounding sum of $4,000,000,000 in luxuries alone. Sup- 
pose we give one tithe of these luxuries to God, and kept the nine- 
tenths for ourselves, we should be giving to God $400,000,000. Then 
pass from luxuries to comforts and conveniences : we could certainly 
give one-twentieth part of those to the Lord, and they reach again the 
sum of at least $4,000,000,000, and would make $200,000,000 more — 
$600,000,000 — without having come down at all to the necessities of 
life, or those things which we call necessities, which, as has been said, 
ought to give way to the extremities of the poor. 

In my recent visits in Great Britain and this country I have been 
greatly delighted and gratified, as well as somewhat startled, at the 
multitude of gifts that have been put into my hands for missions, 
especially on the part of the wealthy. The veiy last of these gifts I 
now hold in my hand. A young lady, who is an heiress in her own 
right, who has passed through great sorrow and suffering of late, hear- 
ing me preach in the Reformed Church at New York, and having heard 
my remarks on the text, " If there be first a willing mind, it is accepted 
according to that a man hath and not according to that he hath not," 
came to me at the end of the service and presented me with this mag- 
nificent marquise ring, set with seven diamonds, which could not be 



83 

duplicated for seven hundred dollars. She said : " I will never again 
wear that ring. Take it and use it for the proclamation of the Gospel 
among the destitute." And I said to myself, what treasures would 
pour into the coffers of the Christian Church if we began simply with 
our luxuries ! 

My friends, I am going to use no polished or smooth words to- 
night. I am a little afraid that the seeds of a great apostasy are in the 
Church of God to-day, that in the midst of this century and its closing 
decade it should even be questioned whether we could evangehze the 
world in our generation, when the luxuries alone that crowd our homes, 
that cover our persons, that are hung upon our walls and stuffed into 
our library cases, the gold and silver, the jewelry and the ornamenta- 
tion, the costly furniture in our homes, would of themselves suffice to 
make the Gospel speed its way around the earth inside of a decade of 
years. It is a pretty solemn question whether we ourselves are saved 
if we allow this state of things to go on much longer. I used to think 
I was in earnest about missions. I made up my mind that I had been 
trifling with the whole subject, and I could not get over the conviction 
that I was trifling with it until I came with my wife and my seven 
children and said to God and to his Church, " If we can be of more 
service in foreign lands than here in spreading the Gospel, we will go 
and take our places in the foreign field." 

My friends, begin at your garret and go down to your cellar, and 
make an estimate of the useless things that are lying in the drawers of 
your bureaus, in the cabinets of your curios, on your walls, and on 
your library shelves, and wherever the secret treasures of your house 
are lodged, and consider how far towards the evangelization of the 
world in this generation the simple sacrifice of your superfluities might 
go. Then go down through your conveniences and comforts until you 
come to the necessities of life, and consider what a marvelous awaken- 
ing there would be in the Church, and in the world too, if we came to 
the point of dividing the last crust of bread for the sake of giving 
bread to starving men, and consented to go without two coats where 
there was another man that had none. That is the only way to deal 
with the question of missions, and any other way of dealing with it is 
in a sense hypocrisy, or at least disingenuous and insincere treatment 
of our God and of lost souls. 

Kow, a word about methods. I mean by methods the bringing 
into contact all the force and every part of the field. There are a 
thousand milUons of human beings that have never heard of Christ. 
I say that we ought to distribute whatever be the available force in 
every part of the destitute field ; that the whole policy of diffusion is 
the policy of the Scriptures, and the policy of concentration is the 



84 

policy of a worldly-wise Church. We ought to scatter the seed of the 
kingdom over the whole field — better thinly sow the whole field than 
thickly sow a portion of it. And, until we come to the Lord, and take 
up whatever we have of men, of money, and of means, and regard the 
whole field to be sown with the seed and to be filled with the work- 
men, we shall never do this work according to business methods. 

It seems to me that the Church of God is trifling with the whole 
subject of missions. Why should not we show a spirit of enterprise in 
the Church such as the world shows in all business schemes ? What 
is the matter with the Church, that in this nineteenth century she has 
scarcely one of those great master agencies which men use to carry 
their inventions to the ends of the earth ? Why should we not have a 
great church exploration society, and go forward and pioneer the way 
into destitute fields, on the basis of inter-denominational comity and 
courtesy, and put into every field some working force, so that no abso- 
lutely destitute place should remain in the world? Why should not 
we have a pioneer information bureau, to guide missionaries into new 
districts and teach them the laws of health and climatology, and, in 
advance, familiarize them with the habits and customs of the natives? 
also, assist them in acquiring the rudiments of the languages of the 
people among whom they are to dwell ? Why should we not have a 
great transportation society to carry missionaries to other fields without 
cost, and keep up channels of communication between them and their 
sustaining churches ? Why should we not have new church relations? 
Why should not the Church come to every 300 members and elect one 
of those members to go abroad to the foreign field, on the principle of 
drafting recruits, and have it understood that the person selected 
should either go or furnish a substitute ? Why should not the Church 
agree and covenant that it is as much a matter of necessity to give to 
the support of missionaries as to come to the Lord's table or to the 
prayer-meeting, or to make a decently punctual attendance at church ? 
Why should not we have great world agencies to carry on this work 
for God ? What is the matter with the Church, that she has not 
learned even from the men of this generation the wisdom that guides 
them in matters of this world ? WTiat is the reason that you will find 
the sewing-machine and the parlor organ, the kerosene lamp and the 
circlet of glass beads, in districts where as yet the Gospel of Jesus 
Christ has never been carried by its heralds ? 

I say to you solemnly to-night, conscious of the fact that I may 
never again speak on the subject of missions, that Dr. Duff was right 
when he said, thirty years ago, " The Church is playing at missions." 
There is nothing serious in the way we have been treating this grandest 
subject ever brought before the consciousness of converted men and 
women. 



85 

When Francis Xavier stood and looked from the island on which l 
he died, upon the colossal empire of China, he cried out, " rock, 
rock! when wilt thou open to my Master?" If Francis Xavier 
could come back to-day and look on a world wide open before that 
Master, and on a Church lying in sluggish idleness in her hammock of 
ease, one end fastened to manunon and the other end nominally to the 
Cross, and see that Church supinely looking on the destitution of a 
thousand ndllions of the human race, that she might reach in twenty- 
five years if she had the energy of mind and the consecration of heart 
to do it, he would turn from the colossal empire of China and face the 
Church and say, "O thou rock, thou rock ! when wilt thou open to my^ 
Master?" 

My friends, I want, before I leave, to say a word to you on the super- 
natural basis of missions. I am only sorry that I have not the even- 
ing to give to that most magnificent department of this most magnificent 
theme. I want to say to you, that with the 40,000,000 Protestant 
church members in the Church of God, with the $12,000,000,000 in 
her treasury, with all the capacity for carrying on the work in business 
methods, according to the very best and wisest and most sagacious 
suggestion, I have not the slightest idea that we shall see the world 
evangelized in this generation, nor that it will be evangelized in ten, 
twenty, or a hundred generations to jcome unless the supernatural 
element enters into it as it has never entered into it since apostolic 
days. And for that, may I reverently say, I am living just now, and 
hope to live for a few years to come, that by voice and tongue I may, 
in this and other lands, impress upon the Church that it is not by 
might nor by power, nor by wealth nor by numbers, not by the patron- 
age of human governments, not even by the best business methods, is 
this world of ours to be evangelized, but by the coming of the Holy 
Spirit upon the Church of God. 

Three things enter into the supernatural basis. The first is the 
command of God. Two passages of Scripture commend themselves 
to my thought and yours — one ia Ecclesiastes, the other in 1 Samuel : 
" Where the word of a king is, there is power." And if you will ex- 
amine the Hebrew you will find that the force of the word " power " 
is authority. When Christ says, " Go ye into all the world and preach 
the Gospel to every creature," that means there is authority to do it ; 
and authority from God means ability to do it, for He never commands 
what it is impossible for His disciples to do. Therefore, the existence 
of the command is the answer to the question of possibility, and is the 
answer to the question of practicability. 

In the second place, the supernatural element depends on the pres- 
ence of Jesus Christ. I want to take time enough, even in this hurried 



86 

address, to call your attention to a distinction I have never seen em- 
phasized outside of the humble writings of my own pen ; and I marvel 
it is not more emphasized : Christ never speaks of the promise of His 
presence as identical with the promise of the Father. He always dis- 
tinguishes the two. He says : " All power is given unto me Ln heaven 
and in earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, . . . and lo, I am 
with you always, even unto the end of the world." And then He 
says, " Behold I send the promise of my Father upon you ! " The 
presence of Jesus Christ is His presence, first, on the throne as governor 
over the nation, and especially over His Church ; and, second, it is 
Christ's presence on the battle field, to conduct the campaign, to lead 
in the engagement, and inspire by the banner of His earnest of victory, 
and insure final success. 

The promise of the Father is the enduement of the Holy Ghost — 
not a presence on the battle field to guard and guide and govern, to 
protect and defend and insure success ; but a power from above, to 
make me witness a confirmatory witness with the witness of the Holy 
Ghost, and to make the witness of the Holy Ghost a confirmatory wit- 
ness to the witness which I render to my Lord ; to break down inferior 
obstacles that remain after the walls have been broken dovsm ; to open 
the gates of conscience, of conviction, of emotion, of resolution, after 
external gates have been forced by the armies of Christ and they have 
entered within stormed walls. Two quite different things. But, until 
the Church understands these two things, she will never carry the 
Gospel to the bounds of the earth, or do it effectively. 

We must understand that our blessed Master is at once there and 
here — there to persuade, there to hold out His golden scepter to the 
suppliant, there to turn the other end of His golden scepter round, and 
with the iron extremity to break in pieces those that conspire against 
His little missionary army ; and here also, on the battle field, to show 
me where to go, to break down walls of adamant, to break through 
gates of steel, to prostrate obstacles, to provide facilities and appliances, 
instruments and implements. And then, after all that is done, — while 
it is being done, — the Holy Ghost, in answer to the devout and believ- 
ing prayers of God's people, comes down upon the Church, as He came 
in regeneration, as He came in sanctification, now anew in enduement 
for service. Then, having the witness of the Spuit with my spirit and 
in my spirit, I am enabled to speak words that shake the consciences 
of men, words that uplift communities to the higher level that is im- 
possible for learning, culture, intellect, or natural eloquence. It makes 
possible all these triumphs in the absence of learning, culture, natural 
eloquence, and the human facilities of approach. 

I am very thankful that Dr. Gordon emphasized to-night that mag- 
nificent thought, which, so far as I know, he was the first man in this 



87 

generation to bring before the public ; namely, that one reason why 
the Lord Jesus Christ emphasized the presence of His believing chil- 
dren in all parts of the earth, is that He may have anointed witnesses 
and scattered vessels to convey His grace — " He is a chosen vessel 
unto me, to bear my name among the Gentiles." I have been a some- 
what extensive reader of missionary history and biography : I have 
yet to find the first instance of a revival of religion in the absence of 
any believing child or children of God to be the vehicles of divine 
communication. Somebody has been where any religious work is done 
in the conversion of men ; gome colporteur has scattered Bibles and 
tracts ; some humble evangelist — it may be simply a native servant in 
some missionary family — has become the reservoir, first to receive and 
then to distribute the grace of God. 

What did Christ say at the great feast of tabernacles, when they 
were pouring the water from the pool of Siloam upon the morning sac- 
rifice ? " If any man thirst let him come unto me and drink. He that 
beUeveth on me, as the Scripture hath said, out of his belly shall flow 
rivers of living water. (But this he spake of the Spirit, which they 
that beUeve on him should receive.)" And if you will go with Christ 
to the woman at the well as she drew the water, you will find the same 
lesson : " But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him 
shall never thu-st ; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a 
well of water springing up into everlasting life." Now, will you answer 
me this question, and remember what responsibility that conception of 
God's work lays on you and me : if the Holy Spirit is given only where 
believers are residing, if a community can receive the Spirit of God as 
a converting Spirit only when the witnesses are there upon whom the 
Holy Ghost has come in regenerating and sanctifying power, will you 
tell me how any portion of this world is to be visited with the convert- 
ing grace of God until you have scattered the witnesses to Christ in 
these localities ? I have never had a thought come home to me as that 
thought has come. It is tremendous in its outreach, tremendous in the 
sense of responsibility it impresses, tremendous in the encouragement 
and the uplift of its suggestiveness. And this is the reason why I 
plead with you to do your part in scattering the force, however small the 
force may be, into all parts of the world, however wide the world may 
be, however thin the supply of workmen may be in the destitute regions 
beyond, so that in every part of the earth the workmen are scattered. 
For I solemnly believe, and I say it with the emphasis of a dying man, 
that if the Church to-day should resolve that the year 1891 should not go 
by until she had sent at least one representative of Christ and His Gos- 
pel into every destitute district on the surface of the earth, so that there 
should be no district a hundred miles square that should not be repre- 



88 

sented by one witness for Christ, before the year 1891 passed by there 
would be an outpouring of the Holy Ghost to which even Pentecost 
would be simply the first drops of a coming latter rain. 

But so long as the evangelization of the world is neglected, every 
interest at home suffers. Look at our churches ! deluged with ritual- 
ism, with rationalism, with Romanism. Look at our churches ! the 
world in them so that you cannot tell where the world begins and the 
Church ends ; so that the only way to distinguish the members of the 
Church from the sons of Belial is oftentimes the examination of the 
church roll. It means a serious thing when, even in our seminaries of 
learning, men in these days are denying the plenary inspiration of the 
word of God, overthrowing this trust on miracles as well as prophecy, 
and shaking hands with rationalists. 

I say to you the hope of the Church of God is missions. It is not 
simply how we shall save the world, but how we shall save ourselves. 
The Church that forgets the world will speedily be forsaken of the 
Holy Ghost; and the Church that embraces the world in her love and 
in her labor is the Church that, in losing herself for her Master's sake, 
shall gain herself, her Master, and the world. 



THIRD JDAY, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 28. 

Morning Session. 

The devotional exercises were conducted by Miss Corabel Tarr, 
International Secretary of the Young Women's Christian Association. 

The Convention then took up the topic, " Phases of Foreign Mis- 
sionary Work." 

George D. Dowkontt, M. D., of the International Medical Mission- 
ary Society, addressed the Convention on — 

The Medical Phase of Foreign Wobk. 

The Lord Jesus Christ was a medical missionary. His twelve 
disciples were all medical missionaries. The seventy afterwards chosen 
were all medical missionaries, all appointed to heal the sick and preach 
the gospel. And in the 10th chapter of the Gospel according to Luke, 
in which you read of the seventy being sent out, you get the parable 
of the good Samaritan, who, having no miraculous power, used the 
power that he had in lifting from the ditch the man that the priest and 
Levite had passed by. And the Saviour's commendation was of him 
and is to us, " Go thou and do likewise." Medical missionaries try to 
carry out that command. They go to the people with the fruits of 
Christianity, and thereby seek to plant the roots. The Saviour said, 
" By their fruits ye shall know them." And when John the Baptist 
sent, inquiring as to whether Christ was the one to come. He said, " Go 
and show John what things ye see, how the lame walk, and the blind 
see, and the deaf hear." And when he wanted a credential He said, 
" If ye believe me not for my words, believe me for my works' sake." 
So much for our authority ; so much for the command for this work. 

The greatest joy that can be given to a Christian man or woman on 
this earth is to go up and down it as the Master did, relieving suffering 
— physical, mental, and spiritual ; and the greatest suffering into which, 
I think, you can put a man or a woman is to send him into the midst 
of suffering without the ability to relieve it. In regard to the need 
for this medical missionary effort, we find that among these thousand 
millions of heathen, we have actively employed at the present time 
about 250 medical missionaries, male and female, fully qualified. That 
gives one medical missionary to 4,000,000 people on the average. 
4,000,000 people with one medical missionary to attend to their 
physical needs ! 



90 

I have no time to go into the horrible details of the suffering of 
these people through lack of the help they need, through the ignorance 
and superstition and cruelty with which they are treated in time of 
sickness. But I ask you to read for yourselves. Many of you prob- 
ably have been reading the Medical Missionary Record, in which we 
try to put as much as we can of information upon this line. We beg 
of you to look into this question. In China, not long ago, there came 
a young man to one of our medical missionaries with a great, gaping 
hole in his arm ; and, upon inquiry as to how that was caused, it was 
ascertained that a Chinese physician had said to that young man, 
whose father was dying : " There is only one thing which can save your 
father. If you will submit to have a piece cut out of your arm, it may 
save your father's life." He submitted to the operation, but the patient 
died notwithstanding. 

Three points as to the value of medical missionaries : 

1 . Success in Gospel effort. When physical relief has been brought 
to people suffering from disease, confidence is won; and you can 
readily see how oftentimes an opening wedge is thus driven for the 
Gospel to enter in. 

2. Self-support. I cannot dilate upon this question, but give you 
one or two points only. Dr. Summers landed on the West Coast of 
Africa in February, 1885. He died in May of 1888. From the day 
he landed upon African soil until the day he died he did not take a 
dollar from any society for his support. He won the hearts of the 
people, and obtained not only funds for his own support, but also for 
his work. Dr. Ellen Mitchell, for the last three years in Burmah, pays 
out of her earnings her personal expenses and the salary of an assist- 
ant. Dr. Simms, who is laboring on the Congo, receives as his salary 
from the Board $500 a year. He receives $600 from the Congo gov- 
ernment, and pays $600 in for the $500 he gets out. Last year I 
received a letter saying that the Chinese government wanted two men 
to come out to places where there is no missionary, that it may have 
the advantage of their medical knowledge. The Chinese government 
is wilUng to give $1,000 a year to two missionaries, with the privilege 
of doing all the Gospel work they wish. 

3. Self-preservation. This is not a small point. Mr. and Mrs. 
Farnsworth were in Turkey. They had four children. One took sick 
and died. A second one died. A third died. The fourth was about 
to die, when they took a long journey to a doctor, only to hear the 
words, " too late," and turn back, and after they had been two days on 
the journey the chUd died, and our missionaries had to carry that dead 
child back to lie by the side of the other three. 



91 

One other point only — four reasons for medical missions: 1. 
Christ commands. 2. Sympathy demands. 3. Wisdom dictates. 
4. Experience has proved the value of this agency. 

Question. I wish to ask how much scholastic training a man ought 
to have before he takes a medical course ? 

Answer. It is not needful, I think, that he should have a college 
education. If he had education enough to enter college it would be 
sufficient. 

Q. "Would you advise taking a full four years' course in medicine, 
or a shorter course ? 

A. I would say, never go out unless you have a full medical course. 
And unless you have a degree, do not allow people to call you a doctor, 
and do not dare to assume the title. You ought to have a full medical 
course if you are going to be a doctor ; but you may have a shorter 
course, such as we have provided. 

Rev. Henry Forman, of India, then spoke, as follows, on — 

The Educational Phase op Foreign Woek. 

I speak of one thing in the great work. The evangelistic is more 
attractive, and a greater work. Medical work is as attractive. 
Woman's work is more attractive, and a greater work. 

I speak first of the reason for educational work among Moham- 
medans and Hindoos. It is put this way by those who do not believe 
in it : " You are educating thousands and thousands of young men and 
boys, of whom scarcely ten will become Christians, in all probability. 
Why this great expenditure of money and time?" The answer is 
this : Thousands and thousands are going to be educated. Shall we 
educate them, or shall an infidel government institution ? not an 
infidel government, but an infidel institution. The government insti- 
tution of India is neutral avowedly, really non-Christian ; but the 
effect is that young men are coming out of the government schools 
by the thousands who have not only no religion, but scarcely any 
distinct ideas even of morality. Even now they are trying to pre- 
pare a moral text-book for the schools. My father has been on the 
committee for the Punjaub for years, and every time they bring up a 
book it is rejected because it has too much Christianity in it. They 
cannot make a moral texl^book without Christianity in it. 

Shall we then leave the schools to these teachers who cannot even 
give them morality for fear of introducing Christianity ? No, we must 
go on with the work, for the young men are being educated and will 
be educated ; and the question is. Shall we educate them and give 
them a knowledge of Christ, or shall we let them go on in this other 
course ? There is no question as to which is the wise course. 



92 

Another point : the character of these schools. "We begin with 
little boys and keep them until they are prepared for college, — teach- 
ing them English until they are able to study in English. Then we 
have some colleges that carry them on up to the A.B. and the A.M. 
courses. 

The extent of this work : I speak only of Northwestern India ; I 
want to talk of what I definitely know. There are schools, several in 
Calcutta, with thousands of pupils, — I mean, mission schools; of 
course there are government schools all through the country. There 
are mission schools in all the other districts of Bengal : Allahabad with 
450 pupils ; Lucknow, 500 ; also Lahore, 650 ; Rawal Pindi, 850 ; and 
many others I will not mention. But this is not all. We have our 
thousands of boys in the purely vernacular schools. It is a very wide- 
spreading system, and if it were not a wise one it would not have been 
60 widely adopted. 

What about the difficulties in the way of this work ? In the first 
place, these boys do not come for love of the Bible ; they come because 
it is just a little cheaper than the government school. Then again, 
they come because their fathers came and formed a liking for the mis- 
sion schools. But they do not come for the sake of religion. They 
want education so that they can get good salaries. If they are im- 
pressed by our Bible teaching and are converted, it is not always a 
permanent influence, because we cannot always baptize these boys. 
To baptize a boy under fourteen is a criminal offence ; and it is a seri- 
ous thing to baptize them over fourteen, because they must be separated 
from their homes. Still, we do that. Not always : we have to look 
always to the character of the boy. Will he stand under the pressure 
from the outside ? Will he waver and fall back ? Can he stand, at 
the age of fifteen or sixteen, against his parents, his family, and every 
one, when they bring every means against him — argument, persuasion, 
affection, and then try to tempt him into immorality and sin in order 
to break his Christian character ? Still, we do baptize some of these 
boys. 

Then a little more of this dark side. From our schools go forth 
occasionally a few of those who oppose Christianity, who have learned 
their Bible, but use their knowledge to oppose. There are very few of 
these. From the government schools they go out by hundreds and 
thousands ; so that is not an argument against our schools. Sometimes, 
after we have worked long vrith a boy, he will fall back. I taught a 
boy for yea,rs. He was dissatisfied, uncomfortable, because he knew he 
was in a false religion ; at the same time he was full of doubts, and 
well informed on all sorts of objections to Christianity — such as Vol- 
taire's, Tom Paine's, and Ingersoll's. He hesitated long, and finally he 



93 

said, " When I seem to come to the point the devil seems to take pos- 
session of me." He hesitated until he fell back and became an abso- 
lute hater of Christianity. 

There is Ramsay College in Almora, of the London Missionary 
Society. Lately they baptized one man. It stu-red up great hatred 
toward old John Ramsay, — who has been honored for years, and who 
has done more than any other Englishman for that native state, — 
because he was anxious for the conversion of young men. A great 
mob of young men and boys came and gathered all the Bibles they 
had, and scattered the leaves as they went, and made a bonfire of them 
before John Ramsay's house. Do not imagine it is all simple and easy 
saiUng ; but it is just these things that bring it out. You know how in 
Madras College a few years ago the conversion of one man led to a 
great furore, lint there is encouragement too for this work. Who 
can want a better field than three or four hundi-ed bright, intelligent 
boys, to teach them day by day, and to influence them ? It is a splen- 
did field. 

Mr. R. R. McBurney, Chairman of the Missionary Committee of 
the Young Men's Christian Association, then addressed the Convention 



The Work of thb Young Men's Christian Association in 

Foreign Lands. 

Mr. Chairman and Christian friends, I take it for granted that the 
members of the Missionary Conference and of the Volunteer Movement 
recognize, as the Young Men's Christian Association do, that their first 
allegiance is to Jesus Christ as a personal Saviour, and that next their 
allegiance is to the Church of Jesus Christ which they join, and that 
allegiance to the Church carries with it allegiance to the Boards of the 
respective churches with which they are connected. The Young Men's 
Christian Association did not seek the field of usefulness which has 
been opened to it in foreign mission lands. And let me say, in relation 
to this Student Volunteer Movement, this Movement has a very direct 
connection with the Young Men's Christian Association, more direct 
perhaps than some of the younger members of the Volunteer Move- 
ment are aware of. You have been hearing during these days a Uttle 
of the history of the organization. One thing I have not heard in con- 
nection with it ; namely, that a secretary of the International Com- 
mittee of the Young Men's Christian Association, Mr. Wishard, asked 
Mr. Moody for an opportunity for some college students to meet him at 
his home in Northfield for the purpose of Bible study-. They gathered 
together those young men who met at Mt. Hermon, and at that gath- 
ering commenced this Volunteer Missionary Movement. So that this 



94 

Movement has of course a very warm place in the heart of Christian 
men, and an exceedingly warm place in the heart of the members of 
the Young Men's Christian Association of the United States and the 
Dominion of Canada. 

I said a moment ago that the Young Men's Christian Association 
had not sought this foreign mission work. In our home work we do 
not begin Young Men's Christian Associations in towns without the 
concurrence of the pastors of the evangelical churches in those towns. 
We never think for a moment of seeking to force the organization of 
an Association in a town. "We believe that if the need exists in a town, 
the pastors and Christian people of that town will recognize it much 
more quickly than those who live at a distance. The International 
Committee of the Young Men's Christian Association pursues the same 
course, and is pledged to continue that course, in relation to the organ- 
ization of Young Men's Christian Associations in foreign mission lands. 

A few years ago, in 1885, a request came from some of the mission- 
aries in Japan for aid in the erection of a building for the Young Men's 
Christian Association in that place. They asked for $5,000. The 
United States contributed $2,500, Canada, $1,500, Australia, $1,000. 
The building was erected in Osaka, Japan. The testimony of the mis- 
sionaries was that the building was a great aid to the Christian 
community scattered in the different parts of the place. 

Of course, I have not time to go into the development of the work 
in the two countries to which it has gone. In 1887 the American 
missionaries wrote to friends in America that there was a large oppor- 
tunity for teachers in the colleges of Japan ; that those who went there 
as teachers would be able to support themselves from the salaries they 
received, and at the same time carry on a Christian work as they might 
have opportunity. The first band sailed for Japan on the 4th of Feb- 
ruary, 1888. Among those that went out in that band was John Trum- 
bull Swift, a graduate of Yale College and of the Columbia College Law 
School. He had been Assistant Secretary in the 23d Street Branch of 
the Young Men's Christian Association, and also Secretary of the 
Young Men's Christian Association of Orange, New Jersey. He had a 
thorough knowledge of Association work and methods, and was heartily 
enlisted in it. While teaching, he became of course interested in his 
pupils. He gathered some of them together for Bible study, and the 
question arose in his mind, in view of the fact that Christianity is not 
taught in the Imperial University, or allowed to be taught there. Why 
not organize a Young Men's Christian Association, in connection with 
the students of the Imperial University ? The missionaries said to him, 
" How can you organize a Young Men's Christian Association in the 
Imperial University when there are no Christians there?" Mr. Swift 



95 

is a quiet, judicious man, of a very inquiring mind, but a thorough gen- 
tleman in his manner. He quietly investigated, and finally secured the 
names of fifty young men who were nominally Christians. I infer that 
they were experimental Christians, but they were secret Christians. 
He gathered them together. Thirty of them came to a meeting to 
which they were invited, and it was said that no one man of that 
thirty knew that there was another Christian young man in that 
institution save himself. It gave each man courage to know that in 
that institution there were numbers who, like himself, though cowardly, 
believed in their heart of hearts in Jesus Christ as the personal Saviour 
of their souls. The result was the organization of an Association there. 
Mr. Swift, at the request of the missionaries in that country and the 
International Committee, was set aside to give attention exclusively to 
the work of the organization of Associations. 

The object of the Young Men's Christian Association is not to send 
a number of secretaries to each country, but rather to send one or two, 
with the hope and expectation that young men will be trained in those 
countries to do the work of the country. Mr. Swift has already been 
instrumental in securing the co-operation of two young men who 
have been under training with him, and are going to devote themselves 
to that work. Let me say that half of $60,000 was raised in this 
country for the purpose of erecting a building for the Young Men's 
Christian Association right in the vicinity of the Imperial University, 
and a like amount for the young men of the city of Tokyo. It should 
be borne in mind that Tokyo is the largest university city, and has the 
largest number of students probably of any city in the world ; between 
60,000 and 80,000 students are there each year. And they are of the 
most influential class, — the controlling class in that country, as they 
are in every country. 

The missionaries of India, in the vicinity of Madras, sent a unani- 
mous request to the International Committee to send out a trained 
secretary to Madras. Mr. McConaughy went, and is accomplishing an 
excellent work. 

Now, before I stop I think it will be well for me to read for your 
instruction the attitude of the Young Men's Christian Association to 
this work. The following resolution was adopted in 1889 : " Resolved, 
That the National Committee be empowered to estabUsh such Asso- 
ciations and place such secretaries in the foreign mission field as in its 
judgment may be proper, and receive such contributions for its work 
as Associations and individuals may contribute to it." 

I would like to read the balance, but I want to say something that 
is exceedingly important. We have a man ready to go to Brazil. 
The missionaries in the missionary societies interested in that country 



96 

had a conference this morning. They expressed a desire that a young 
man should be sent there. The young man is here in this Convention 
— a trained secretary. 

The only difficulty we experience in connection with our contem- 
plated work in Brazil, work in India, and in Japan, is the difficulty of 
procuring money. Men are abundant. We are receiving urgent ap- 
peals from other cities in India to send men as secretaries to aid in this 
work. Now, it seems to me that if the volunteers that are here, and 
are intensely interested in the progress of foreign missions, will go 
around and seek to awaken interest, so that money may be given in 
the respective churches, you who are devoting your services to this 
work can have an influence upon these churches which the secretaries 
cannot probably have, and which other men cannot exert. 

Rev. Mr. Lambeth : — 

I would Uke to say that I saw Mr. Swift only a few weeks ago, and 
he said at that time that he desired five men as soon as possible, who 
should go upon the field during the middle or by the last of the sum- 
mer, so as to secure places for them in the government schools, which 
will bring them one hundred yen a month, about $75 United States 
currency. Will the young men be forthcoming ? 

Rev. Mr. Kyle, of Brazil, then addressed the Convention on — 

Editorial Wokk in the Fobeign Field. 

This is pre-eminently an age of newspapers, and our own land 
a land of newspapers. More papers are published in the United 
States than in all the rest of the world besides. It is nothing more 
than natural that American missionaries, in addition to their other 
work, should turn their attention to the publishing of newspapers, 
that through them they may propagate the truths of our religion 
and make the Gospel go into places where they themselves cannot 
go. A newspaper can go into every post-office, into the homes of 
those who openly would refuse to recognize us, who would not attend 
our services, or perhaps even talk with us on the street. So that this 
editorial work is one of the important works of the missionaries to-day 
in any of our fields, — especially is this so in South America. The 
Brazilians and the Spanish speaking people of South America are a 
newspaper reading people. 

In Rio Janeu-o, a city twice the size of Cleveland, there are nine 
daily newspapers. Now, in this newspaper work we want to reach 
three classes of people. We want to reach our native church mem- 
bers. We want to instruct them in the doctrines of our holy religion. 
We want to edify them — build them up in the faith. And then we 



97 

want to reach another class — those who aru beyond the reach of the 
missionaries, who live so far away that they can at most receive only 
an occasional visit. And then we want to reach the educated men of 
the country through the newspapers. It can go into their homes ; it 
can go into their reading-rooms, into tlieir libraries, where the truths 
of the Gospel may be set before them. And if in our schools we can 
have grammar and arithmetic and geography, why might we not in 
our newspapers, teach them things which, while not essential truths of 
Christianity, ■ndll give them information upon general subjects, upon 
what is going on in the world, news of how God is working in this 
world, bringing it nearer and nearer to the Gospel of Christ? History 
can be taught, news can be gathered from all over the world which 
will interest and attract the people, and bring them to read articles, 
tracts, books, and the Bible, that they may know what is essential, and 
learn of Him who is the way, the truth, and the life. 

But in this editorial work we not only have the newspapers, but 
tracts and Bibles of all kinds and sizes must be prepared. The people 
of the United States have their tremendous English literature behind 
them. There is no literature in the world so full of good religious 
books as the English literature ; and those of us who have been out 
into those lands where there is almost an absolute dearth of religious 
books, feel and see this need as only those can see it who have been 
there to feel it. The list of evangelical books in the Portuguese lan- 
guage is not more than twenty-fi\'e or thu-ty. Think of twenty-five or 
thirty religious books in the English language ! This is a tremendous 
work which must be carried on, that we may educate our young men 
to disseminate the truths of the Christian religion. 

Now, those who go into this editorial work must have some taste 
for it and preparation for it. We all know that those make the most 
successful editors who have given themselves to the work of editing 
newspapers and who study the needs of the people, and prepare them- 
selves for it by actual experience. It would do no harm if every 
missionary — every young man who expects to go to the mission field 
— should spend two or three weeks in some printing office and see 
what type looks like, see what printer's ink is, and handle a proof- 
sheet. The man who goes into the foreign field never knows what 
day he may need any part of this information and experience. And 
it seems to me that in the future, if the evangelization of the world is 
to be brought about in this generation, a great part of it must be ac- 
complished through the printed page, through which we may preach 
and we may evangelize. 



98 

Rev. John L. Nevius, D.D., American Chairman of the recent 
Shanghai Conference, then addressed the Convention on — 

The Evangelistic Phase op Foeeign Wokk. 

I am expected to speak of evangelization as one of the phases of 
missionary work. Now, my idea of evangelization is that it in itself is 
a generic and not a specific term, and that it includes all the phases of 
missionary work. It seems to me that we must change our terminology 
with reference to this great work of missions. The important idea to 
begin with is. What is the Scriptural idea of evangelization ? If I 
mistake not, the idea that prevails at home is that the principal func- 
tion of the missionary, as he goes abroad to the ends of the earth, is to 
preach, in the modern, specific, technical sense of that term ; while, in 
addition to this as the principal function, there is the educational, the 
editorial, and other departments of missionary work. 

But, dear brethren and sisters, if you examine a Greek concordance 
of the New Testament, you will find about six words in the original 
that are all translated " preach " in the English version, and hardly one 
of the six has the modern technical sense that we connect with the 
word " preach." The two Greek words principally used mean to pro- 
claim as a herald or transmit good news. And the best way of com- 
municating this information is the best kind of preaching. It has been 
said here that Jesus Christ and the Apostles were all medical mission- 
aries. I will add that Jesus Christ and his Apostles were all educa- 
tional missionaries, they were all industrial missionaries, and they were 
all editorial missionaries. What a wonderful editorial missionary the 
Apostle Paul was ! I use the word " editorial," not with reference to 
periodical literature, but to tract literature and book literature. These 
are all different phases of the one great work of evangelization. 

I suppose that by the evangelistic phase is meant the work that is 
carried on in chapels, on the street, and in itineration. Let me here 
give you an idea of the different state of things in the great Eastern 
lands, especially in China, from what we have here. Our idea of the 
evangelist is of one who gives a stirring address, bringing those before 
him to a definite result or determination of will. That presupposes a 
great deal of intelligence and instruction beforehand. What would an 
evangelist do here unless all his people had a familiar and an intimate 
acquaintance with the Gospel ? Absolutely nothing ; there is no 
ground of appeal. We go to China. We have a language that is 
steeped with idolatrous association, — we almost have to convert the 
language before we can use it to discourse to an audience on the 
Christian faith. It presupposes, too, persons who are accustomed to 
this way of being influenced, who from childhood have listened to 



99 

public discourse, with its introductions and conclusions ; those who are 
accustomed to churches, to lectures, and great lecture halls. There is 
no such thing in China ; there is not a lecture hall in China. I sup- 
pose that a regular, formal discourse has hardly ever been delivered 
in China, I was going to say for the last 2,000 years, but they are very 
exceptional ; and a lecture hall does not exist among them of which I 
know ; it is something to which they are entirely unaccustomed. Their 
method is the individual, catechetical, conversational ; and the method 
of the great sage of China was the Socratic method. 

But I must come back to my theme, and that is evangelization. I 
suppose I cannot do better than to refer to my own experience. My 
time has been spent in several channels. In editorial work I believe I 
carried out my own theory. But I have had a great deal to do with 
long itinerations in the interior of China. In the province of Shan- 
tung, with twenty-five or thirty millions of inhabitants, I suppose I 
spent half of the last fifteen years. 

The first phase of that particular kind of work is immense crowds. 
Everybody, moved by an intense curiosity, turns out to see. Even the 
women forget the proprieties of social life to come with the children in 
their arms, and there they stand, with the gaping crowd, looking at the 
strange apparition of the " foreign devil " who has entered into their 
village. We use this opportunity to the best of our ability. That 
comes nearer to our idea of preaching to crowds than anything we 
ever meet. The next time there is less of a crowd. The school 
teacher has told them that this new doctrine we preach is exclusive, 
that it is intolerant ; that the God we worship we proclaim as one 
God, the only God, who demands the single and whole worship of all 
human beings. They are afraid. 

After we go around two or three times in these villages where we 
had nearly the whole population out, not one comes near us. I have 
gone over that same ground year after year, and year after year, and 
the great burden was that I could find no one to whom I could talk of 
Christ. That is the second stage. It shows progress. It shows that 
all the people in that field have come to know that there is one God, 
and that Jesus Christ is the one Saviour He has sent. It shows that 
the truth is working among the masses. 

Then we come to the thii'd stage, when here and there a person 
comes out and stands up for Christ. That means a good deal. The 
last stage is when around these little centers Uttle churches are started. 
And now the work is all evangelistic. The evangelistic work is train- 
ing these native Christians, teaching them to be evangelists, and devel- 
oping them in this great work. 

And now I want to present just one thought before cloriip, and 
that is that the great qualification for evangelization is for n.^ to feel 



100 

that we can do absolutely nothing — that it is God's work. We heard 
last night of the spiritual forces which are the great forces that move 
the world. We must be made to feel that unless God interposes we 
can do absolutely nothing. After five years' preaching on that field to 
thousands and millions of people, and sometimes feeling that here is 
one and there half a dozen just ready to become Christians, at the end 
of five years I had not a single convert. ISTumbers, intellectual force, 
anjrthing, everything, that we as men can bring to bear on this subject, 
will be utterly fruitless unless God in mercy pour out His Spirit. 

I believe that was the lesson that it took the Apostle ten years to 
learn before he was fully prepared for his life's work and the special 
call to him at Antioch, " Separate me Barnabas and Paul." And you 
will remember, when as a young man he attempted to debate the ques- 
tion with the Lord Jesus in the temple at Jerusalem, Jesus said to him, 
" Depart." Paul believed there were special reasons why he, the per- 
secutor, should testify to Christ in that great center of influence ; but 
the Saviour said, " Depart : for I will send thee far hence unto the 
Gentiles." It was several years before he was sent, but when he was 
sent he had learned that lesson, — that he could do nothing. And 
when he reported the results of his work over the Roman Empire, 
notice how in every case he spoke, not of what Paul had done, but of 
what God had done through him. Brethren, learn that lesson early ; 
learn it, if you can, before you leave the United States ; but be assured 
you must learn it before God will use you to carry on His own work. 

The closing exercises of the morning session were conducted by 
Mrs. S. B. Capron, of Moody's Bible Institute of Chicago, who intro- 
duced the topic — 

Pbatbe and Missions. 

I am to speak on the blessedness and power of prayer in missionary 
life. When another and I were talking together in 1856 about an out- 
fit, we wrote on the top of a foolscap sheet of paper, "Prayer — ask 
of God." It is a very wonderful experience, my dear young brothers 
and sisters, when you write at the top of a page, " Ask of God," and 
under it what you ask and the date, and then write His marvelous ful- 
fillment beneath it, — " Received," — and the day. Now there can be 
no better way of treating this interesting and valuable subject for this 
twenty -five minutes than to confine ourselves to the value and power 
of prayer in missionary work. 

I believe there is nothing in our missionary life like the conscious- 
ness that the Church of God carries us on its heart in prayer. How 
many times I have been hurried from one day to another, and have 
then gone to my place of prayer, and I recall at this moment a small 



101 

rattan chair, which seems to me like the throne itself, as I remember 
how many times I have knelt there and said : " O, Lord Jesus, I have 
no time to pray for myself, nor this afternoon's work. Oh, inspire at 
this moment some dear heart in America, who may know me by name 
only, to offer a prayer for the need of this hour ! " And I believe that 
that has been done over and over again. For, as I have gone from one 
place to another, how I have been thrilled at a stranger's face and a 
stranger's voice coming to me saying, " I have never seen you before, 
but how often I have prayed for you and read what you have written." 

Dear young brothers and sisters, these are the great facts of the 
missionary life. And let me remind you of it when you are about to 
set out on your work. Begin now, begin at once, and let it be known 
here and there among all your dear ones that you need their prayers 
now, for preparation ; for it does seem to me that the time has come 
when we need men and women filled with the Holy Ghost and with 
power to do the individual work that now needs to be done. After all 
these great plans have been brought almost to their fulfillment, now it 
remains to go one by one and win souls for Christ. 

And now, one word from God's word, because we cannot take a 
subject like this without a word from Him. You will remember what 
He said to Moses, who led Israel out of Egypt, as you in your foreign 
missionary work will lead many out of Egypt : " Behold there is a 
place by me." And when, as the Psalmist says, " the God of glory 
thundereth," and the nations stand afar and tremble, we hear God say, 
" You have a place by me," and then add, " Thou shalt stand upon a 
rock ; " and when we stand upon a rock we can be lonely and bear it. 
And then the Lord said of Moses, " With him will I speak mouth to 
mouth, even apparently, and not in dark speeches ; and the similitude 
of the Lord shall he behold." Now that is verified ; it is " even 
apparently " when you least expect it. It is the power of prayer, it is 
the power of the Holy Spirit, so that you may sometimes say : " O 
Comforter divine, I know not what to ask for. I am still, and thou 
shalt pray for me." And now, let us all sweetly, tenderly, and with 
blessed expectation, sing one verse, and then I trust that all over this 
room will come the spirit of prayer. 

Now, if there is some dear missionary brother or sister who has a 
sweet and precious testimony to give to this power of prayer, of being 
borne up by the prayers of those at home, or some wonderful and 
blessed answer to prayer in loneliness, let us hear it. You will remem- 
ber that Paul said, " That I may know Him, and the power of His 
resurrection, and the fellowship of His sufferings." That ofttimes 
seems to come to us as we feel the droppings of glory down into our 
hearts brightening and sweeting our missionary lives. I think tlie 



102 

foreign missionary realizes one element of that fellowship, and that is 
loneliness — loneliness unutterable and indescribable. Will some one 
now give us a word ? 

Mrs. J. N. Gushing, of Burmah : — 

Once at our mission in Burmah only one woman and myself were 
left to conduct the work of the mission. There were books and ac- 
counts to be kept, teachers and Bible women to be led, proof-sheets to 
be read. Mr. Gushing was in England, very ill. Just then there came 
a word to me from New York, from a lady, saying, " We fear you are 
in distress and trouble, and at twelve o'clock in the day we are praying 
for you." Twelve o'clock in the day at New York City was eleven 
o'clock at night with us. At eleven o'clock at night down came a 
blessing — all the peace and joy and strength and comfort and courage 
that I wanted for the next day came to me. Day after day for eleven 
months I felt the power of that prayer. 

Mr. C. F. Gates : — 

I became a Ghristian on the day of prayer for colleges. I went out 
as a missionary to Turkey in answer to prayer. I was just graduated 
from the seminary, and a call came to me from the American Board to 
go to Mardin. It was not a question of desire, for I did not want to 
go, but of duty ; it seemed to me that God was calling me, and what 
could I do but go ? That same month I picked up the Missionary 
Herald and read a request for prayer like this : that a young man 
might go out to the mission field from a sense of duty. 

On the mission field there came a time when we were building our 
schools. Saturday was coming, the workmen must be paid, and there 
was nothing to pay them with. I knelt in prayer and asked aid. Fri- 
day there came a letter from France. It said : " Our daughter has 
died, and on her death-bed she said,,' I want you to send ten pounds to 
Mr. Gates for his work.' I put with it fifteen." When we remem- 
bered that the letter had been sent a month before, we said, " God has 
performed His promise, ' Before they call I shall answer." On another 
occasion we were traveling. Storms had beset us. Three swollen 
rivers lay before us, and we knew not how to cross. Just then a man 
joined our caravan, and carried us across in ways we could not have 
devised for ourselves. One or two of us said, " God sent that man for 
this time and this emergency." 

One word to those who expect to go out as missionaries. Do not 
go unless you can stand alone with God. The loneliness of mission 
life is awful. It is only as you can lay hold of God's right hand and 
depend upon Him to hear and answer prayer that you can have any 
success. 



103 

Dr. G. W. Chamberlain, of Brazil : — 

At one time in Brazil, when my colleague Howell was broken down 
and was at home and the work was doubled up, one Sabbath, leaving 
the church weary, and anticipating ugly questions that had to be 
decided about nine o'clock for school week, I lifted up my heart to the 
Lord and said, " If help does not come quick it will come late." 
There came into my mind a man whom I had not corresponded with 
in fifteen years ; a man who had gone to Brazil from ambition for 
wealth, but whom the Lord had used to teach and had made a popular 
teacher. He had been away from Brazil for fifteen years. I knew he 
was practicing medicine in Missouri or Kansas, and that the Lord had 
broken his heart by taking his wife, and that he had become a Chris- 
tian. I had not enough faith to write him a letter, but I thought I 
would waste a postal on him. I said, " Are you in condition to hear a 
call to come and help in educational work in Brazil ? " It was the first 
Monday in November. We always observe the first Monday of the 
month in prayer for the missions. I took that postal in my pocket to 
the prayer-meeting and said : " This pasteboard is going to a man in 
the United States. If the Lord wants him we want him. If He dues 
not, we do not. Let us have prayer before this goes to the post-ofiice." 
An answer came in a month : " Perhaps you do not know that my wife 
is dead, and I have eight children too small to be left alone. But my 
heart is in Brazil ; and now since the Lord took away my idol, my heart 
is His. If it is His call I am going. I am in good practice of med- 
icine, have my children all about me ; but if it is His call I am 
going." I then wrote him a long letter. Three months later came 
his answer : "My shingle is down. I am going to leave my childi-en 
with my sister for a year. If that year proves that I am the man for 
the place, I am there for life." That placed me in a quandary. I knew 
if I corresponded about it, it would take a year. I took a shorter cut : 
I went to a BraziUan I knew. He said, " That is the kind of man we 
want." I said, " I need his salary, and I can't wait for the necessary 
correspondence." '• How much will it be ? " he said. I told him. " I 
will pay it for a year," he repUed. And the man is there. 

A few moments were spent in brief prayers to God for a revelation 
of the power of prayer in mission work, and then Mrs. Capron closed 
as follows : — 

The time has come for our meeting to close. We can always pray, 
but we cannot always pray together. Let me in closing give you a 
Hindoo woman's definition of prayer, which has more than once made 
me rise from my knees and walk the floor to ask if I were ready for it. 
She was not a Christian. Some one in her hearing was saying, " What 



104 

do they mean by prayer ? " And she replied, " Come here next Sunday 
afternoon, and when she prays it makes a living brightness in the 
earth." Those of us who know what it is to feel the thrill of con- 
sciousness that we are being heard, and that there is a glory and a 
blessedness just before us, can understand the meaning of this beau- 
tiful description of prayer that moves the heart of God. 

The session closed with singing, and the benediction by Dr. 
Murdock. 

Afternoon Session. 

The devotional exercises were conducted by Mr. F. S. Goodman, 
General Secretary of the Cleveland Young Men's Christian Associa- 
tion. 

The discussion on the general toj^ic, " How can the volunteer help 
the cause before going?" was then introduced by William Walter 
Smith, of the General Theological Seminary of New York City, who 
spoke on the following topic : — 

InCEEASING CONTEIBUTIOXS TO THE SoCIBTIES. 

You have heard about our 6,000 volunteers, and we heard Dr. 
Pierson's address last evening, telling us how the ])urse strings of our 
individual Christians in our churches have been tightly closed. We 
hear the old cry from Board after Board, " Retrench " ; man after man 
coming forward ready to go, and no money to send them. I think I 
can safely say to-day that there is not a single Missionary Board that 
has enough money. I want to tell you as briefly as I can how we 
volunteers are trying to meet the money problem. 

There are three ways of doing it. In the first place, to get in- 
dividual colleges and seminaries to support their missionaries in the 
foreign field. In 1887 Princeton was asked to send two men. The 
students said they could not do it ; they were too poor. We tried it. 
We thought we could not raise $700, but we raised )f;l,300. Princeton 
Seminary took it up, and raised $700 that j-car. Union Seminary did 
the same. The plan adopted was tliis : The men in the different 
classes agreed to give a certain sum, monthly, weekly, or quarterly, 
towards the support of a missionary in the foreign field. The pledge 
read : " I promise to give so many dollars, or cents, each month, week, 
or quarter, during a period of five years from date, towards the sup- 
jiort of a missionary in tlie foreign field, that sum to be over and above 
my present offering to foreign missions." In accordance with that 
plan, the men pledged for five years in the colleges, in the seminary 
for four years, so that each class coming in will overlap one year. 



105 

The Board agreed to take that man if his support was pledged for five 
years. The men are sent out under their own church Boards. Up to 
the present time, in tlie United States and Canada alone, the number 
of colleges supporting their missionaries in whole or in part is about 
40 ; the number of seminaries is 32 ; making 72 institutions supporting 
their missionaries in the foreign field. They raise by this means over 
$30,000. 

The second method is to get individual churches to send out their 
missionaries. This work was not developed among the volunteers 
until the summer of 1888. Several of the volunteers agreed during 
the summer vacation to try to get churches to supjjort their mission- 
aiies in the foreign field, the money given to be over and above their 
usual offerings to the cause of foreign missions, and to pass through 
the regular Boards. To-day over 100 churches are, in whole or in 
part, supporting their missionaries in the foreign field, raising over 
$50,000. We have found no case where this plan has not directly 
benefited the other collections of the church. One volunteer on the 
point of sailing to the foreign field has already had offers from six 
individual churches asking the privilege of supporting him in the 
foreign field. I believe, if we have the enthusiasm and the zeal for 
foreign work we can get the money without any trouble whatever. 

It is estimated that 135 persons giving ten cents a week would sup- 
port a missionary. A church which could not raise enough to support 
a missionary entu'ely could combine with other churches. If the money 
raised in one church is not sufiicient for the su23port of a representative 
in the foreign field, and it is impossible to combine with other churches, 
the money raised could be sent to the Board to be used as they direct. 
I could name a little chapel with only 35 members, poor people, who 
are raising over $85 a year for foreign missions by this plan. We find 
a great many churches where the pastors have not allowed us to put 
in our plan to support the missionaries. In those cases we try to get 
them to increase their monthly contributions. 

The third method is to induce individuals to support their mission- 
aries. A lady of our acquaintance is working twenty-four hours a day. 
She works twelve hours a day here, and she has a missionary in India 
working twelve hours a day for her. Those of us who are not able to 
go to the foreign field can perhaps support a representative there. If 
we cannot go, we must send. 

Miss Hattie Dyer, State Secretary of the Young Women's Chris- 
tian Association of Pennsylvania, spoke briefly on the next topic, em- 
phasizing prayer for missions. 



106 

Mr. E. B. Haskell, of Oberlin Theological Seminary, spoke as 
follows on the next subject: — 

Securing Recextits as Volunteees foe Foeeign Seevice. 

On the 15th of April, 1861, President Lincoln sent out a call for 
75,000 volunteers. On the 19th, U. S. Grant was drilling a company 
in Illinois. FooUsh Grant! by the 19th he might have reached the 
front. Where is he ? In a few days he has a regiment, and goes with 
a thousand men at his back. 

A mine has caved in upon fifty men. A youth discovers it. What 
is his wisest plan — to stay and dig away alone, or to run through the 
hamlet, calling at the doors and telling the people of the calamity, and 
bringing a hundred workers to help him? 

Is there any reason why we should try to get other volunteers ? 
Why, the world is death struck ! While we sit here deliberating how 
to help them those millions are dying at the rate of two every second. 
If the 400,000 spoken of here last night should offer themselves to- 
morrow to go to the foreign field, and the Church should offer the 
money to send them, before they could learn the language at least 
12,000,000 would have died. Every month a million die in China. 
Three times every year those hopeless graves receive a population 
equal to that of the State of Ohio. Why try and get volunteers ? It 
has been told you that we can do a great deal more for the foreign 
cause before we go than we can ever do afterwards. When I hear ap- 
peals from Japan, it seems as though I must go to Japan. When I read 
the report of the Shanghai conference calling for 1,000 men for China, 
China claims me. When I read Dr. Chamberlain's address calling for 
5,000 volunteers for India, it seems as if I must go to India. When I 
hear the appeals from darkest Africa, it seems as if every man ought 
to go there. 

We cannot divide ourselves into a thousand men and women ; but 
by getting volunteers before we go we multiply ourselves over and 
over again. By getting volunteers before we go we may do the same 
brilliant thing which Andrew did. It is recorded in the first chapter 
of John : " He first flndeth his own brother Simon and said to him, 
we have found the Messiah, which is, being interpreted, the Christ. 
And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld him he said, 
Thou art Simon the son of Jona : thou shalt be called Cephas, which 
is by interpretation, a stone." That was a brilliant thing for Andrew 
to do ; he brought a man to Christ who was forty times the man he 
was himself. You may do that yourself. You may seize upon some 
person, and get him consecrated to the foreign work, who will accom- 
plish a hundred times the work you will do yourself in the foreign 



107 

field. It was a very ordinary sermon, by a man who did not begin to 
compare with him in ability, that touched the heart of Adoniram Jud- 
son and persuaded him to go to India. 

Again, if we' secure volunteers before we go, and die on the way, 
our work goes on. If this young miner of whom 1 have spoken is 
struck by lightning after he has aroused the community, it makes 
little difference ; the work goes on. In the past we did not have that 
organization and apostolic succession which we get by this method 
of securing volunteers before we go. And what a great privilege 
it is! 

Just a word as to how to get volunteers. By personal work is the 
most important way, just as you would go to work to get men to be 
Christians. I would pray over it; I would reach them in just the 
same way I would try to get people to be Christians. Be courteous, 
be candid, be careful in your statements, weigh their objections, above 
all, never get angry at their stupid or frivolous excuses, or anything of 
the kind. Be Christlike, be earnest, and stick to it, and try to get 
volunteers. So, to close with the same kind of illustration as that 
with which I begun, if I see a hospital on fire, I may well spend part 
of my breath, while rushing to the rescue, in sounding the alarm and 
rousing the community. And so, as we go to the foreign field, let us 
sound the alarm and get others to go with us. 

Mr. Robert P. Wilder then spoke as follows on the two topics — 

Disseminating Infoemation among the Churches ; and. Accu- 
mulating Information. 

Though two-thirds of our race know nothing about Christ, the 
mass of the American Christians know little and care less about these 
lost ones. To the great majority the subject of foreign missions is a 
signal for disgust ; and I have often been cautioned by pastors, when 
speaking in churches, not to announce my theme as missions, but to 
use the words, " Student Volunteer Movement." The word " mis- 
sionary " usually seems to be a signal for a miserere. 

No theme can be of more intrinsic interest. Comparative philology, 
as a science, owes its perfection, if not its existence, to the service of 
foreign missions. The subject of missions is world-wide in its scope. 
It marks the reach of the Church's commission and the climax of the 
Church's coming triumphs. Yet, to the average American Christian, 
it is uninteresting. It is because they do not know the facts. Ignor- 
ance and indifference are twin brothers. Not long since, when speak- 
ing to an audience, I asked how many before me had ever read a dozen 
missionary books. Not a hand went up. How many had read half a 



108 

dozen? None. How many had read four? Three. I asked how 
many had read three ? Pour or five hands went up. When I asked 
how many had read two missionary books, counting in the Bible as one, 
not more than fifteen hands went up. I felt strongly tempted to ask 
them how many had read one missionary book, counting in the Bible 
as one. 

The addresses which are made to these churches are not always of 
the very best character. There are two ways in which we can dis- 
seminate information among the churches : first, through Ear-gate 
— through the spoken word ; second, through Eye-gate — through the 
written page. There are two or three kinds of missionary addresses : 
the first the kind that palls ujjon the audience, the other that penetrates 
the audience ; the first that leads the people to pity the speaker, the 
other that leads them to pity the heathen. In speaking upon the sub- 
ject of missions, there are two ways of making our addresses interest- 
ing. First, to have the address merely amuse the audience. I know 
of a theological student who spoke on the subject of the Dark Conti- 
nent. He told about the habits of the people ; but the darkness and 
the soul-death of millions for whom Christ died he scarcely alluded to. 
The immediate effect was to raise a laugh ; the ultimate result was to 
make them think Africa was a country to avoid. 

The man who apologizes for foreign missions apologizes for his own 
conversion. We would have been heathen this afternoon had not 
foreign missions come to our ancestors in northern Europe. As Max 
Mueller says, " Christianity would cease to exist if it ceased to be mis- 
sionary." " Christ is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours 
only, but for the sins of the whole world." 

In speaking in churches upon this subject there are two methods : 
the first to go to the church as an individual ; the second method is to go 
out in groups. The Union Theological students last year divided 
themselves into seven groups. We scattered missionary information 
through the churches, and raised $5,000 for missions over and above 
what the churches were previously giving. 

Secondly, we want to reach these people through Eye-gate : first, 
through missionary periodicals ; second, through pamphlets or tracts ; 
third, through missionary charts ; and, fom-th, through missionary books. 
Under the first point I Avant to name three periodicals : " The Mission- 
ary Review of the World," " The Missionary Echo," and " The Medical 
Missionary Record." We volunteers can secure the first for one dollar 
a year, the second for twenty-five cents a year, the third for fifty cents. 
Let us be sure to have these papers with us as we speak in churches, 
and have as many people as possible take them. Secondly, our leading 
Boards publish a large number of pan-denominational pamphlets. 



109 

The Baptist Board publishes, among others, three which I wish each of 
you could read : " China's Millions," " A Question of Ownership," and 
" The Bed Rock of Missions," by Rev. W. Ashmore, published at 
Tremont Temple, Boston. Then I would recommend that we secure 
as far as possible the pamphlets of the Student Volunteer Movement. 
The recent appeals from Japan, China, and India, I am sure, will burn 
their way into the hearts of the people in our congregations. Your 
address is once for all, but if you can leave something with the people 
to read, there will be a permanent impression among them. Mr. 
Kellogg, of Cornell University, has forty or fifty charts here with him. 
I heard last night of a man in one of the Western colleges who told 
him that the Uttle chart that represents the 856,000,000 heathen by 
black squares had burned its way into his heart. 

The last means by which we can influence churches and institutions 
is through missionary books, and I have a list here of twelve of what I 
consider absolutely essential missionary books. I would like very much 
to have you take down their names. 1. "The Crisis of Missions," by 
Dr. A. T. Pierson, $1.25. 2. " The Great Value and Success of Mis- 
sions," by John Liggins, $0.75. 3. "In the Far East," by Miss 
Geraldine Guinness, an intensely spiritual book, which I hope every 
volunteer will read. 4. " The Centenary Report of Missions of the 
World's Conference," held in London, $2.00 for the two volimies. 
5. " Medical Missions," by John Lowe, $1.50. 6. " The New World 
of Central Africa," by Mrs. H. Grattan Guinness, $2.00. 7. " China 
and the Chinese," by one we have with us, the Rev. J. L. Nevius, D.D., 
list price, $1.50. I can heartily recommend this book. And, also, in 
speaking of China, I would recommend a little book by Rev. J. T. 
Gracey, D.D., which costs only 1 5 cents, a capital work, containing a sum- 
mary of the missionary work in China. 8. " India," the best work upon 
India, by Rev. J. T. Gracey, D.D., $1.00. 9. Upon Africa we all of 
course ought to read "Livingstone," by W. G. Blaikie, $1.25. 10. Also 
the life of A. M. Mackay," recently published by his sister, $1.50. 
11. Upon India I would also recommend "The Life of William 
Carey," by Geo. Smith, $3.00. 12. On Japan, the best available book 
is " The Mikado's Empire," by W. E. Grifiis, $4.00.* 

I wish I had opportunity to name a number more, but I hope that 
we will secure these books and read them. If you have not money 
enough to buy the books, get your Band of volunteers to purchase 
them and put them in the volunteer library. We have a volunteer 
library in the Union Seminary, and I trust you will prevail upon your 
librarians to procure them. 

It is not enough, however, to have missionary literature in our 
libraries. An appetite for it must be created, and here we can do a 

*See List of Missionary Books at close of Beport. 



no 

great deal of work. Instead of going to a man and asking him to read 
a book, ask him to peruse the most interesting chapter ; for instance, 
the chapter on opium suicides, in " In the Far East," or « The Floating of 
the Dayspring," in "The Life of John Paton." I have a friend who 
has read " In the Far East " through three times, and says there are 
descriptive passages in it of such surpassing beauty as to rival Tennyson 
or Washington Ii-ving. As some one has well said, " If disciples do not 
wish to flame with missionary enthusiasm, they must avoid contact with 
the heroic souls who have given their life to missions." And let us do 
all we can to get these facts before the churches, and we will have the 
missionary fire ; for I believe there is enough of the spark of love in 
our church members, if they had only the information before them. 
Fidelity to duty on our part means the evangelization of the world in 
the present generation. Lukewarmness on our part means another 
generation of millions lost. Fellow volunteers, what will eternity be 
for them, a joyous day or a starless night? Upon us more than upon 
any other class of Christians depends the answer to that question. 

Woman's Woek foe Woman. 

Miss Nettie Dunn, of the Executive Committee of the Student 
Volunteer Movement for Foreign Missions, presided over the Conven- 
tion during the discussion of this topic, and introduced it with the 
following words : — 

There is a beautiful illustration in the Bible ; it is in the story of 
Ruth, as told in the second chapter of that book. Ruth said to her 
mother, " Let me now go to the field and glean ears of corn after him 
in whose sight I shall find grace." And her mother said, " Go, my 
daughter " ; and she went to the field and asked permission of Boaz to 
glean, and he said unto her, " Let thine eyes be on the field that they 
do reap, and go thou after them." And so food was provided for her, 
and a chance for the gleaning ; and later on this lord of the harvest 
said, " Let her glean even among the sheaves, and reproach her not : 
and let fall also some of the handfuls of purpose for her, and leave 
them, that she may glean them, and rebuke her not." So she gleaned 
in the field until even, and brought in that night a wonderful gleaning 
as the result of that single day. 

Dear friends, it is the story of Woman's Work for Woman. It was 
the men of our country who first took up the work in foreign lands. 
Thirty years ago the women of om- nation began to say with Rutli, 
" Let me now go to the field," and they went ; and they heard the Lord 
of the harvest say, " Let thine eyes be upon the field, and go out after 
the reapers." Thirty years ago the first woman found her way to a 



Ill 

Hindoo woman's heart, and up to the present day these women 
workers have been carrying the spirit of Christ into foreign lands. 
Thirty years ago there were no women's missionary societies on this 
continent ; to-day there are forty -three different societies in different 
churches, and these societies are working in all the fields of the world, 
and I suppose they are raising nearly a million dollars a year and send- 
ing it out. 

We have representatives of fifteen of these societies with us, and I 
wish some of you might read the letters that have come to us. We 
are to hear to-day from two of these representatives. The first of 
them is Miss Abbie B. Child, of the Woman's Board of Missions of 
the Congregational Church, who will now speak to us on — 

Qualifications of Woekers. 

After all that has been said of the qualifications of workers, so well 
and so fully, by those who are so much wiser than I, it seems hardly 
best for me to do very much in this way ; and yet perhaps, for a very 
few minutes, I might add some simple and I hope practical suggestions 
that may be of use to some of the women volunteers in this country. 
I understand there are one hundred of them present. 

The first essential qualification I should mention would be that qual- 
ity made so vivid to us by Prof. Drummond as the " Greatest Thing in 
the World " — Love ; love for God and love for man as a foundation, 
and love for missionary work as the key-stone of the arch ; a love 
for God and for His Son that will make one ready to obey His call 
wherever it may lead — to do His will whatever it may demand ; a 
love for our fellowmen that will enable one to live year after year 
among degraded, ignorant women, patient, cheerful, untuing, trying to 
awaken the souls within them and lift them from the low plane on 
which they live ; a love for missionary work that will make this the 
one thing in the world that one wants to do. Mere sentiment, any 
romantic ideas, any desire to see the world, can have no place here. 

I believe the call to missionary work must come from the still small 
voice within. Like Elijah, we cannot hear the call in any short-lived 
fire of enthusiasm, kindled at a meeting like this, in any mighty wind of 
persuasion that comes from an eloquent speaker, nor in any earthquake 
of family life that sets one adrift upon the world. The thought may be 
born in one of these — it often is ; but the real call comes from the 
still small voice that abides after these have passed away. 

Love like this I have mentioned is born only of the Spirit, and will 
form a sure foundation upon which to rest the various other qualifica- 
tions which go to make a successful missionary. 



112 

Among these we may mention : — 

1 . Adaptability. First, adaptability to circumstances : to be able 
to make the best of inconveniences great and small ; to be able to sleep 
on a tent floor or a comfortable bed ; to ride over a lonely mountain 
road, or to entertain a party of friends at home. Second, adaptability 
to people : to be able to get on with crooked sticks without unnecessary 
friction; to be able to give up our pet schemes and theories. 

2. Versatility. One never can tell what she may be called upon 
to do in the foreign field. She may find it necessary to teach men high 
in authority and of keen intellect, or the most ignorant woman ; to man 
a station ; to manage a hundred wild gu-ls in a boarding-school ; to take 
care of a sick child ; to relieve a tired missionary's wife ; or undertake 
any kind of domestic drudgery. We love to look on missionary work 
as a high and holy calling, and so it is ; but not so high as to keep one 
from innumerable small kindnesses to smooth another's pathway. There 
was surely never a higher calling than that of our Lord, who came to 
redeem a lost world, and yet he was willing to labor at a carpenter's 
bench and to wash the disciples' feet. 

3. To know how to care for one^s health. From what I have seen 
I believe that to have the ability to take care of one's health is quite 
as important, if not more so, than to have vigorous health itself. To 
know the limit of one's possibilities ; to know when and how to rest ; 
how to select the most important things to be done and have strength 
of mind enough to leave some things undone, — may add years to one's 
life, and so to one's usefulness. 

4. A qualification often mentioned is, sanctified common sense — 
one too important to be left out of any category. One must have com- 
mon sense before it can be sanctified, and I believe it is a gift, but one 
that may be cultivated or destroyed. To sanctify common sense does 
not mean, I take it, to deprive it of any of its clear perception — its 
simple practical way of solving knotty problems ; it only means that 
these elements shall be intensified, and that it should be tui-ned to a 
high and noble use. 

5. This practical element, combined with high intdlectual training, 
which we all acknowledge to be one of the first essentials in preparation 
for missionary life, makes a most desirable missionary. Just here let 
me say, that at least a year of practical experience before one leaves 
this country is most important. If one is to be a missionary teacher, 
let her teach in some school as like our mission schools as she can se- 
cure. If she is to do evangelistic work, let her spend a year in some 
Bible training school like the one under Mr. Moody's care in Chicago. 
If she is to be a physician, let her have a year's experience in a hospital. 



113 

6. As a sixth qualification I should mention a steaJij persiNt/;nce 
in well-doing. Comets are very brilliant and interesting, but for reli- 
able results we must depend on the fixed stars; and a comet could 
surely never represent the constant light and warmth of our Sun of 
righteousness. 

7. A seventh requisite, which is so obvious that it need scarcely be 
mentioned in this presence, is a spirit of prayer. It is difficult to 
imagine any woman undertaking the foreign missionary work in her 
own strength. One man in a thousand might do it perhaps, but a 
woman never. When we stop to think what it is for a handful of 
men and women to go and settle down in a country with the avowed 
purpose of overturning the domestic, religious, even national, customs 
that have existed for centuries, surely no one would dare enter upon 
the work without a divine call, or take one step in it without divine 
guidance. With God all things are possible. 

Mrs. N. M. Waterbury, of the Woman's Baptist Foreign Mission- 
ary Society, then spoke on the topic — 

Method op Woek and Need of Wokkees. 

The need of workers seems to be a foregone conclusion. You have 
recognized the need of workers, and therefore jou are here to-day. 
There may be a little question still about the need of woman's work in 
foreign lands. Perhaps if I speak briefly of the methods of work you 
will comprehend why women are needed in this foreign mission work. 

Our Missionary Union, after many years of single blessedness, no 
doubt, over parts of its work, united itself to the Woman's Board, 
which is auxiliary to it. One part of the work which the Woman's 
Board takes from the Missionary Union is the work among the chil- 
dren in foreign lands. We need women to do this work, particularly 
to go among the little children, to lead them and teach them and guide 
them. It is a wonderful work and a blessed work, this work of teach- 
ing the little ones of Christ, of educating them, of training them, of 
guiding them. Some one has com;jared it to that first miracle in Cana 
of Galilee, where Christ said, " Fill the water pots up to the brim." It 
was only water that went in, but wine that came out. And as we put 
the word of God into the hearts of those children, it don't mean to 
them what it will mean. God will turn it all into precious wine. This 
work for the children is women's work ; and we want women who are 
willing to go out and gather in the poor little lost children of the 
world and lead them to Christ. 

In India there is this peculiar state of things. Tlae high-ca.te 
women are shut up in the zenanas. It would be a terrible disgrace 



114 

and crime for a man to look upon one of these high-caste women. 
We need women for that work, which no man could do, however will- 
ing. That of course is peculiar to India; it does not apply to other 
countries. And yet, when we consider the millions of women in India, 
we must ask women in America to think of that phase of work. Then 
again, we have great masses of no-caste women throughout China, 
Africa, and India, — women who are as free to be about as the men. 
Why cannot women evangelize these women ? They can occasionally 
hear the Word from men, but it comes to them with far more force 
from women. 

If you were to go out with me into a little suburb of Madras, and 
to step into a little mud schoolhouse, you would see coming in fifty or 
sixty native women of the lowest caste, of the most degraded condi- 
tion, coming in with their water jars on their heads and their babies 
on their hips, sitting down to listen for the first time to the story of 
Christ. They are not interested, but they have seen us come into the 
schoolhouse, and they come in. They sit down on the floor, and we 
do. We do not take up the Bible. You cannot understand how igno- 
rant and degraded these women are ; they must have something to 
catch their hearts and their attention. 

At first, of course, as I went out, filled with methods and theories, 
I had certain addresses which I had prepared to deliver to these 
heathen women, and certain things which I thought would be very 
instructive and helpful to them. But somehow or other I did not 
seem to be popular in speaking to heathen women ; they all slipped 
out, and I had to go home and wonder what was the matter. So I 
decided to let methods go largely, and to get my heart just as full of 
the love of Christ as it would hold, and go to these women as a sister 
and friend. I might take up the Bible and read a chapter to them ; 
but in the meantime they are wondering : " What makes her feet 
black and her hands white ? And what a queer dress that is ! " And 
so they are discussing me and I am losing them. 

Usually there are a dozen babies there. I pick up one of the 
babies — it is not an easy matter to pick up one of the babies, they are 
generally well oiled ; but if you catch hold firmly and carefully you can 
get one up — and ask how old the baby is. " Six months." " What a 
remarkable baby," you say ; and all the women crowd around to show 
their babies. I ask how many teeth the baby has. The mother opens 
the baby's mouth, and all the other mothers open their babies' mouths. 
They ask me if I have a baby. " Yes," I reply, " I have a little white 
baby over at the mission-house." Well, that is a great misfortune, they 
say ; if I would only oil it and put it in the sun it would get black. 
So, after explaining to them that that is not my way of doing thino-s, I 



115 

ask them, " What are those scars all over the baby ? " " Oh, yes," they 
tell me, " the other night the baby was possessed of an evil spirit, and 
we couldn't do anything, and we sent for a doctor and he burned it 
with a red-hot iron." I try to tell them how to help the baby, to come 
over to the mission-house and get a little bottle of pills that ■n'ill drive 
the evil spirit out. So they come over to see my baby. 

You think, What time she is wasting ! We get impatient some- 
times. I want to get the love of Jesus in their hearts, but how can I 
do it ? At last the time has come ; every woman — every mother, 
every sister, every grandmother there is interested. Then I say : 
" Keep still. Take up your babies and hold them still. I am going to 
tell you a story, but you must all Usten. It is a story about a baby, — 
a wonderful, wonderful story. That is what I came to tell you. It is 
a little story about a baby." I needn't tell it to you, because you have 
heard it all your lives. But they had never heard the story of the 
little baby in Bethlehem, and they listened to it ; and as they hear of 
the poor mother who had no place but a manger, and how the boy 
grew, and how his mother nursed him, and how he gave his life for 
them and their babies, they want to know more of this man who died 
for them. And so more and more we have followed Christ's method, 
and a Uttle child has led some of these mothers into the kingdom of 
God. 

There is other work, too : we want to train Christian women. 
Oftentimes the women say : " You have a good God, of course. We 
are bad, and we have a bad God." Then I can say, " Here are women 
just like yourselves ; they came from that village over there, and from 
that temple, and they are Christian women." And the Christian women 
say : " Yes, my sister, a year ago we were like you. To-day we are 
worshipping this God. And he has saved us and helped us ; and He 
has come to save you." So we find constantly a need of women to do 
the different parts of the work; and we need a great many more 
women. 



116 



THE VOLUNTEER'S PREPARATION. 

Dr. Luther Gulick, of tlie Springfield School for Christian Workers, 
was unable to reach the Convention in time to speak on the first topic 
of this subject, and we present below a brief paper since furnished by 
him. 

Physical Qualifications foe Foebign Missionaey Seevice. 

The following conclusions are the results of three generations of 
foreign missionary, and two generations of medical, service, united and 
studied with reference to the problem of the world's evangelization. I 
address missionary volunteers. 

First conclusion : You must be well. The health of your body 
vitally affects your mental and spii'itual conditions, and these usually 
determine the quantity as well as the quality of the work the Lord 
does through his servants. We may say that this is unreasonable, un- 
philosophical, illogical ; but these are not to the point. The real 
ground of acceptance or rejection is whether the history of the Lord's 
work in foreign lands will bear it out. On this ground there is no 
room for discussion. 

I do not say, nor do I imply, that one must be robust. Many a 
person delicate by natural inheritance has spent a long Ufe of great 
usefulness by attention to the second point, which is, you must know 
the laws of aeallh. I refer to hygiene, physiology, physical education. 

In addition to the advantages year by year both as to quantity and 
quality of the work, mentioned before, it will add a score of years to 
your work at the time of life when, by your experience and influence, 
you are qualified to do your best work. A year of usefulness after 
twenty-five years of experience is worth several times as much as the 
first year when you have had no experience. Attention to this second 
point adds the years at the valuable end of your life. " My son forget 
not my law : but let thine heart keep my commandments ; for length 
of days and long life and peace shall they add to thee." This com- 
mand and promise is literal, and not figurative. You cannot ignore 
God's laws about the body all your life and then be spared the punish- 
ment. It may, however, be visited most heavily on your children, if 
you are blessed with them, as exhausted physiques and that lack of 
reserve power of body which is usually seen in the childi-en of the 
overworked. 

The laws of the body are the same for missionaries as for other 
people. God demands obedience before sacrifice. There are to-day 
scores of consecrated men and women in this country whose hearts ai-e 
in the foreign field, who are acquainted with the language and customs 



117 

of those peoples, who have already won the confidences of the nations, 
and whom God has removed from these fields because they would not 
obey His laws about their bodies, and ignored the intimate relation that 
exists between their physical, mental, and spiritual conditions. 

We say, " What a strange dispensation of God's providence," or 
" What an inscrutable leading." Being in the work of the Lord, the 
maker of law, does not free us from the obligation of obeying that 
law. 

God wants us to carry the knowledge of His Son to the uttermost 
parts ; the fields are white to the harvest. But He insists that we shall 
work in the lines that He indicates ; and I firmly believe that -ZZe, and 
not we, are right in this matter. The man who overworks lessens the 
sum total of the work he can do, and so postpones the Day of the 
Lord. 

One should be used to simple foods, simple habits, and independent 
of little changes in food and water, — all these can be cultivated. 
Knowledge of foods is invaluable. Englishmen going to India often 
keep on eating meat three times a day, and are visited with an inscrut- 
able (?) dispensation of God's providence, in the shape of sickness. The 
climates of India and England are different and demand different 
foods. 

I now place my argument on another ground. A prospective 
foreign missionary should cultivate a well formed, well discipUned 
body, because his body is an essential and eternal part of him. This 
is necessary in order to perfect manhood. (" As we have borne the 
image of the earthly, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly." — 
1 Cor. 15:49.) 

Christ's work is for the whole man (" For ye were bought with a 
price: glorify God therefore in your body." — 1 Cor. 6:20), and the 
missionary stands as an exemplar of that work to the people with 
whom he is. (" Ye are our epistle written in our hearts, known and 
read of all men." — 2 Cor. 3:2.) 

The work of the Church at home and abroad is all tending back to 
the original plan as taught and practised by Christ, as work for the 
whole man — body, mind, and sph'it. 

In closing, your body must receive its due — not undue — share of 
attention, because it will enable you to do your best work, and because 
it is necessary, if you are to reach the best personal perfection which is 
possible to you, and which is our object in life to attain. 



118 

The Rev. F. P. Ellinwood, D.D., of the Board of Foreign Missions 
of the Presbyterian Church, treated the second division of the topic : — 

The Intellectual PEEPAEATioisr of the Voluntebe. 

It is to my mind impossible to treat of the intellectual aspects of 
missionary work, without reference to the fact that there must underlie 
everything that belongs to the mind the great principle of the grace of 
God in the heart. Dr. Nevius told us this morning that there was in 
the concej)tion of the Chinese no such idea as religion, but only teach- 
ings. In the great systems of India and of the Eastern world, those 
which we are specially confronted with in the great intellectual struggle, 
there is no idea of religion — everything is intellect, everything is 
knowledge, and that of the most speculative and metaphysical kind. 

But in the missionary work we are ever to bear in mind that when 
we appeal to men darkened by sin, we must appeal to the whole being ; 
for not with the brain, but with the heart, man believeth unto righteous- 
ness. And, therefore, in treating of intellectual preparation, we assume, 
first of all, that at the bottom and in the middle and at the top there 
must be consecration of the heart, there must be devotion to Jesus 
Christ, and every other department of the human soul must be consid- 
ered with reference to that. If I were to put this thing in just the 
shape in which I would have it come clearly to your minds, it would be 
this : What you are to do in the preparation of the mind is wholly to 
be done with reference to the end in view. 

There should, in the first place, be thorough preparation along all 
the lines of missionary work. A doctor should be thoroughly prepared, 
as was shown this morning, for the reason that if he is half prepared 
his work may bring injury. If his surgical cases are failures, they may 
only arouse the superstition of the people against him, and the failure 
of his surgery involves the failure of the whole prestige of the mission- 
ary work. So, if a man sent forth to preach the Gospel preaches it in 
a slipshod sort of way, showing that his mind has not been disciplined, 
that he is not master of the work he has in hand, that may operate 
against the cause, and he may do more harm than good. If he so im- 
perfectly learned the language that he uses a word the very opposite of 
the one he wishes to use, arousing a spirit of ridicule and disgust in the 
audience, he has done harm. 

In the second place, a man who goes out to the missionary field 
should understand the ground on which he wishes to work. What 
would a railroad company think of going into a country without 
studying its physical features ? There ought to be just as much of 
that common sense, which we were told just now must exist before it 
can be sanctified, in all the processes and lines of work which concern 



119 

the great missionary cause. Now, I know that I may perhaps arouse a 
little prejudice when I say that we must study the heathen systems 
which we are to encounter. And I would direct your minds, it' you 
wish to see the principle of this, to Paul's instructions to young Titus, 
whom he made a bishop in Crete. Read the 8th, 9th, and 10th verses 
of the first chapter of the Epistle to Titus, where he warns the young 
man to prepare to meet opposition. That kingdom had been swept 
with the worship of Baal, the worst of the heathen religions, and he is 
told in that Epistle that there were men going about leading whole 
households astray. 

There are just such men as that in India. I remember seeing one 
of the best missionaries I knew in India actually broken up in a bazaar 
mission by a man paid to do this work, and provided with all the sharp 
questions that can be gleaned from the keenest infidels, to puzzle the 
speaker and get the laugh of the crowd on him. I was told by a 
young missionary that he encountered such questions as this : " Do 
you say that God created this world for His own glory?" "Yes." 
" Well, did it add to His glory to create this world V " " Why, yes ; 
His glory was promoted." " Did He then receive something that He 
didn't have before He created the world?" "Well, yes." "Well, 
was he then quite complete before ? was He^infinite, was He perfect 
before?" These questions were asked by a Sunday School scholar, a 
boy of seventeen. Another question : " You say God pervades the 
whole world?" "Yes." " He is in all living beings ? " "Yes." "All 
things?" "Yes." "Well, then, is He not in that idol? and, if so, 
why do you forbid us to worship it?" These are questions put by 
professionals, for the very purpose of meeting the missionary and 
thwarting him. Do not learn the heathen systems for your own sake, 
to become a savant ; but find out their inconsistencies and enormities 
and absurdities, that you may place instead of these the true word as 
it is in Jesus Christ. 

We are told that Ambrose, Bishop of Milan, used to sit up nearly 
all night in prayer or reading. He had just two books which he used 
in those vigils ; the one was the Bible, and the other the philosophy 
of Plato. You are shocked that a man of prayer, praying in the night 
watches, should have Plato, a heathen philosopher. Did Plato add 
anything to the Bible ? Not at all ; but his idea was to see the relations 
which existed between the profoundest of the world's philosophers 
and the blessed word of God. And it was by just the discriminating- 
knowledge thus acquired that he won the power that enabled himself 
and others, strong men, — not a Salvation Army, but men who grappled 
with the greatest heathen problems the world ever saw or will see, — 
to conquer and sweep away all the gods of the Roman Pantheon, and 
rear there the love and light of Jesus Christ. 



120 

Another thing : study these systems that you may not do them an 
injustice. If a man blunders, if he gets up before an audience and 
shows that he is ignorant, if he depends upon ignorant denunciation 
instead of intelligent discrimination, let him beware lest he misrepre- 
sents, blocks the way, shows the people that he does not understand 
their systems, and therefore is merely trifling and blundering and doing 
harm. 

In the second place, let him study the systems of the country, 
especially in India and Japan, for he may know full well that there 
are keen, educated young men there who know all about Chris- 
tian principles ; they have learned it in the mission school and else- 
where. They know all about their own systems. They know all the 
cheaj) thrusts of our modern infidelity. They know all that has been 
published here and there of the beauty and glory of Buddhism and 
Brahmanism. They are armed at all points. How is a missionary, 
who has given no thought to such subject, to grapple with such men ? 
One of our missionaries in Siam was asked by a young Siamese prince, 
" What do you think of the ' Forty Mistakes of Moses,' by Ingersoll ? " 
Another wrote of his astonishment at being met with arguments from 
Huxley from a man who had hardly a rag of clothing on. 

Again, study these systems in the spirit of Christ. I wish we might 
have something like the " Present Day Tracts," published by the Re- 
ligious Tract Society in London. I would not advise missionaries to 
give much time to the study of these systems, but I wish there might 
be put into the hand of every missionary a well prepared little tract with 
just the concrete pith of the argument against all these lines of attack, 
against all these allegations of Buddhism and atheism and Hindooism, 
something like Canon Taylor's "Mohammedanism." We must have 
some idea of these things ; we must know where the main points are ; 
we cannot go out as ignoramuses. 

We must remember that this is an age of intellectual activity ; that 
the rippling waves of error and truth are sweeping over all the world ; 
that i n India they are now using the English language, which we 
taught them as missionaries, as a vehicle with which to spread all the 
vilest French novels, translated into English, and all the English works 
of the same nature. I saw the other day a report from the English 
Vernacular Society of London. One of their agents had gone through 
the bazaars of Calcutta, and he found stores piled up to the very ceiling 
in the back rooms with cheap reprints of the vilest French novels. An 
American carried out almost a shipload of them to Siam ; and it was 
found, as stated by one of our missionaries lately, that the Siamese of 
the higher class were withdi-awing their girls from education, because 
they found that their education opened the way to them for the vilest 



121 

novels of Christendom. They shi-unk back ; they said, " If this is 
civilization and this is education, we must withdraw our girls from it 
in self-defence." 

Now, we must meet this state of facts, and supply India and Siam 
and Japan and China with the truth, and with the truth on its contro- 
versial side to some extent ; and, far more, with that truth which is the 
very spirit and love of Christ, and which brings the heart into contact 
with Him, and which leads the Christian to say, as Paul said, with the 
same tact and overpowering love, " Whom ye ignorantly worship, him 
declare I unto you." 

I was last week at Lockport, at the Young Men's Christian Associ- 
ation Convention. I was thrilled ; I was spiritually benefited and 
lifted up. And I had my mind at the same time on this Convention, 
which I expected to attend. Perhaps some are here who were there ; 
but I am impressed with the fact of the mighty power that God is 
raising up in the hearts and minds of young men. And now I want 
to ask that not only through yom- Volunteer Movement, by which you 
send out men to the field, — and I bless God for that Movement, I 
beheve it is in answer to the prayers of Christians, — but what I want 
to say is. Multiply ways and means of spreading the truth. I do wish 
that we might have, among the young men of this country, a combined 
effort for flooding India and Japan and China with Christian literature, 
the brightest, tersest, most concise that you can find, along a thousand 
different lines. Send it out like the leaves of autumn, for it is compar- 
atively few men and women that you can send, in proportion to the 
demand ; and if Satan is flooding the heathen world with all the black- 
est, vilest literature, let us at least employ the English tongue, which 
we have established, as a vehicle for the dissemination of truth to as 
great a degree, and vastly more. 

Questio7i. Do you intend to convey the thought that only the 
best educated men should go as missionaries to India ? 

Answer. I beheve, from the standpoint which I represent, that 
our best policy, with the limited means we have, is to send the most 
thoroughly educated men we can. I rejoice in every form of mission- 
ary effort. I believe in sending missionaries of different grades. But 
I don't think it would be good policy for us. I don't believe in sending 
out the young men who go out in business. I might differ a little from 
Dr. Dowkontt ; I doubt whether those who go to support themselves 
should be labeled with the missionary work. Here is a young man 
who is partly supported by a Missionary Board and partly engaged in 
business. Men in that city will be disgusted and outraged by what 
they consider an injustice. They will say, " You are supported here 
by somebody, and you are breaking up the competition." I wish there 



122 

were ten thousand earnest young men who would go out and simply 
engage in business and be members of Young Men's Christian Associ- 
ations out there. But do not involve the missionary and the mission 
societies. A commission merchant in New York said to me, " Your 
missionaries are all in business to some extent, are they not ? " " No," 
I said, " they are not." We find it absolutely necessary to make a 
point of that, to avoid evil questions. " But," he says, " I am receiv- 
ing orders from a missionary." It transpired that in a few instances 
there had been such missionaries engaged in business, and the implica- 
tion was that all the missionaries were engaged partly in business, and 
thus there was a false impression conveyed. 

Mr. S. M. Sayford presented the next topic in the following 
words : — 

Pebpaeation in Soul Winning. 

The ultimate end to which all Christian efforts converge is the 
winning of souls to Jesus Christ, in order to the establishment of His 
kingdom when He who is the Prince of the kings of the earth shall be 
King over all. The standard of the value of a soul is determined by 
the price that is paid for the soul's redemption. " For God so loved 
the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth 
in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." The gift involv- 
ing sacrifice is based upon two most important considerations, — love 
and knowledge. We must love men for whom Jesus Christ died, and 
know that men need to be saved, because men are lost. We need to 
love God, who sent Jesus Christ into the world, and know Jesus Christ 
in order that we may bear witness of Him. 

Now, there are just two things necessary in order that a witness 
may be faithful : first, that he knows that about which he is going to 
talk ; and, second, that he is truthful. And no man can testify con- 
cerning Jesus Christ unless he knows Him. Paul says, " I know 
whom I have beUeved, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that 
which I have committed unto him against that day." Blessed be God 
for the assurance concerning the safety of the man who trusts in Jesus 
Christ. 

The doctrine of redemption or salvation is the impelling and pro- 
pelling force of all Christian effort ; I mean, of course, aside from the 
sacred energy. I use the word impelUng in the sense that it sends a 
a man, and the word propelling in the sense that it keeps a man going ; 
and I believe that that doctrine underlies all genuine effort to hasten 
the coming of the King in His glory. 

This great Scriptural fact is the fundamental preparation for effec- 
tive work in winning souls. Christ called men to follow Him that they 



123 

might become fishers of men. And very soon afterwards we find Him 
in the synagogue teaching and preaching, and all men marvelled, be- 
cause He spoke as one having authority and not as the scribes and 
Pharisees. So these men followed Jesus in order that they might be- 
come fishers of men. And we are not in the dark as to what Jesus 
Christ taught His disciples ; for, in summing up just before He went 
back to glory, He says, in the last chapter of Luke's Gospel : " These 
are the words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that 
all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, 
and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me. Then opened he 
their understanding, that they might understand the Scriptures, and 
said unto them. Thus it is written, and thus it behoved Christ to suf- 
fer, and to rise from the dead the third day : and that repentance and 
remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, 
beginning at Jerusalem." 

Now, my dear friends, I do not believe, to start with, that the Gos- 
pel of the Son of God can be improved upon. I believe the Gospel is 
the power of God unto salvation as much to-day as it was when these 
words were first uttered. A new Gospel is some other Gospel. A 
mutilated Old Testament means, sooner or later, a mutilated New Tes- 
tament ; a mutilated New Testament means a mutilated Gospel before 
long ; and we have no warrant in the word of God that any other 
Gospel is the glad tidings of salvation or that any other news than that 
can save lost men to-day. 

Now, in preparation for soul winning, we need to study the Bible. 
I have not the time to make the distinction I would like to make here, 
but I can sum it up thus — to study the Bible in order to find Christ 
rather than to lose Moses. You know what that means. Christ says, 
in the fifth chapter of John, the 39th verse, " Search the Scriptures ; 
for in them ye think ye have eternal life : and they are they which tes- 
tify of me." Paul, writing to Timothy, commended Timothy because 
he knew the Scriptures : " From a child thou hast known the Holy 
Scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through 
faith which is in Christ Jesus." And then follows the statement, "All 
Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable." 

Now, I would sum up the preparation on the theoretical side in just 
these three statements : Fh-st, come to Christ, in order that you may 
follow Christ. Second, learn of Christ, in order that you may know 
the doctrine of salvation. Third, pray for the power of the Holy 
Ghost, that you may preach in demonstration of the Spii-it and with 
power. Now, that brings me, just for a few moments, to the practical 
side of the question in distinction to the other, and that has to do with 
the handling of men. I dread this subject, because I believe there are 
men and women here from foreign fields who have been handling men, 



124 

wlio are infinitely better qualified to discuss this question ttan I am. 
But, since the fact has been emphasized that men are men all the world 
over, and that all the world over there are men lost away from God, 
without help or hope, who need Jesus Christ, I will nevertheless ven- 
ture to speak. 

This preparation for soul winning begins when the man comes to 
Jesus Christ, and never ends until the man is crowned with Him in 
glory. It is a preparation that you cannot afford to put off until your 
feet touch the foreign soil : if so, you are losing golden opportunities 
every day, the like of which you will never have beyond the walls of 
these institutions of learning. Somebody says, " But I cannot talk to 
a man on this subject in college, because we know each other so well." 
That ought to be one of the best reasons in the world why you could 
win" a man to Jesus Christ. Seven-tenths, possibly, of the men who 
make this excuse cannot press this question upon the attention of men 
they know, because, in all human probability, they have not been living 
right before men who do not profess what they profess. We who are 
vessels need to be sanctified in some such sense as the vessels of the 
Church are sanctified ; we who are temples for the indwelling of the 
Holy Ghost need to be sanctified or dedicated in some such sense as 
these temples made with hands are sanctified or dedicated — set apart 
for holy service, set apart for a holy life. 

I beUeve that no man here can receive the power of the Holy 
Ghost which Jesus Christ promised when he went away unless the 
man is clean. I do not forget the beautiful illustration which Dr. Gor- 
don used with reference to the emphasis that is laid upon the need for 
a man to cleanse himself. I do not forget that, nor do you, when he 
spoke of the two ways of emptying a tumbler, one to turn it upside 
down, and the other by putting quicksilver in and crowding the water 
out gradually. But how about the man who has those things about 
him that he is not willing to give up for Christ's sake ? " Grieve not 
the Holy Spirit of God whereby ye are sealed unto the day of re- 
demption." 

Up in the hills of New Hampshire, some time ago, I had my atten- 
tion called to one of those little neglected farms. There was an old 
dilapidated building on it. I went through to the little woodshed in 
the rear, and there I saw a running stream of cool water. Its source 
was up on the hill ; it was constantly running. There was a tin cup 
there, and in the cup there were some stones. Now, then, I might 
have poured water in that cup from then until now, and the stones would 
remain, and in that sense the cup never would be full, and it never could 
be filled with water until the stones were taken out. And it is with 
these stones in our hearts and lives that we must grapple, and by the 



125 

grace of God cast them out, in order that we may be clean for the 
Master's use. And when we are, there is simply this one thing left for 
us to do, and that is to study man. 

Somebody suggested on this platform to-day that it would be a 
good thing for a man to spend some time in an industrial institution. I 
remember when a divinity student of Yale said to me, " How is a man, 
crowded as I am, going to get into contact with men personally ? " I 
said : " A man passed here a while ago, while I was waiting in your 
college hall, carrying a hod of coal. I said to him, ' You have a fine 
institution.' He said, ' Yes ; they are a nice set of men.' I said to 
him, ' Are you a Christian ? ' He set down his coal hod and answered, 
' You are the first man that ever asked me that question.' " There 
was a man for whom Jesus Christ died, a janitor in the divinity school, 
never approached on the subject of religion by those whose end in 
in life it was to save souls for Jesus Christ. 

Go and meet some man and touch the tender spot in his heart. 
Does it pay? you say. Yes, it pays over and over again. When 
Stratton touched a drunken man under the lamp-post years ago, in 
Boston, and said, " Young man, there is a better life for you than this," 
the man replied, " How do you know ? " Then Stratton pointed him 
to this better life, and started him in the preparation for that marvel- 
ous career, which was embodied in the late John B. Gough, that man 
who brought rays of sunshine to hearts and homes in many lands. It 
pays to win any man to the love of Jesus Christ, it does not make any 
difference where he is. Study men ; learn how to approach them. 
What a beautiful illustration was that given us to-day by Mrs. Water- 
bury! Get on the sunny side of man, and then when you have 
reached him tell the story of the Christ who came to seek and save 
those who are lost. 

After 4 p.m. the Convention broke up into several conferences held 

simultaneously for the discussion of the following phases of foreign 

missionary work : Medical, Educational, Evangelistic, and Industrial. 

A conference upon woman's work for woman was held at the same 

• time, and conducted by Miss Nettie Dunn. 



126 

Evening Session. 

The evening session of the Convention opened with a brief song 
service, conducted by Mr. Smith. The devotional exercises were con- 
ducted by Mrs. Steven, of the China Inland Mission, speaking more 
especially upon the theme — 

The Spieitual Peeparation of the Volunteee. 

I feel, dear friends, that this subject that has been given to me, the 
one of spiritual preparation for foreign work, is the most important 
subject that could be given to anybody; and why the Lord has given 
it to me I am sure I don't know. In the first place, what is our work 
to be ? Our work is to be that of witnessing. The Lord Jesus said, 
" Ye shall be witnesses unto me." That is to be our work. 

In order that we may prepare ourselves to witness for Jesus, it is 
absolutely necessary that we shall sit much at His feet, that we shall 
learn of Him of whom we are to witness, because (unless we know 
Him of whom we witness, and unless we have been brought into 
personal contact with Him, we cannot witness about Him. By sit- 
ting at the Master's feet I do not just now mean in prayer meet- 
ings, or in church gatherings, or in public meetings of any kind, but 
sitting at the Master's feet to know Him. How do we best learn to 
know people? Xot in the busy crowd, not in the great gatherings in 
convention, but when we can be alone together the heart speaks to the 
heart ; then we come to know a person. And it is only so that we 
can know Jesus. I do feel that this sitting at Jesus' feet, away from 
everybody, getting low down at His feet, listening to His voice, is the 
only way in which we may know Him and get the necessary power to 
witness. 

Then, as a result of sitting at the Master's feet, will follow two very 
necessary things in preparation for foreign work, or any work the Master 
gives us to do. The first seems to me to be emptying. We want to be 
emptied of self, of our own opinions. You remember how the Lord 
Jesus told the disciples, when He gave them their great command, that 
they were to go to Jerusalem and stay there untU they should be filled 
with power from on high. When He told them to go forth and preach 
the Gospel to every creature I have often thought how they must have 
longed to go then ; but he said, " tarry." 

We are told that there was a time in the life of Moses when he 
evidently thought that he was the proper man to deliver Israel. He 
supposed that all his brethren would understand that the Lord was 
going to deliver them by his hand. But the Lord had to deal with 
him. He had to tarry. He had to come to understand that he could 



127 

not do anything at all. He had to be thoroughly emptied. And, un- 
less we are emptied, the Lord cannot fill us with the Holy Spirit. 
But oh, dear friends ! if we become humble in spirit and want to be 
emptied, we will be emptied, and He will fill us with power. The 
strength we have to do this service will be all His strength ; the love 
we have for those dark souls will be His love. He will give us His 
patience in dealing with them. What will He not give us, what can 
He not do for us ? There are two things, it seems to me, we have to 
understand. In the first place, that we can do nothing, and that we 
are nothing ; and, in the second place, that we can do all things. We 
are nothing in ourselves ; we are weakness itself ; but, oh ! may He 
make us weak enough so that His own strength may be put in us ; and 
then we can do all things through Christ who strengtheneth us. Oh ! 
may He grant in all the service He shall give us to do that first and 
foremost may be His glory ; and then, if that is so. He will use us, and 
He will work through us, and we shall have the power, and souls 
will be brought to Him. 

Rev. George W. Chamberlain, D.D., of Brazil, then addressed the 
Convention on — 

The Spieitual Crisis in the Occident. 

I do not know who painted that map [indicating large map above 
the platform showing the distribution of the different religious systems 
of the world], but, as I have looked upon it, and especially upon the 
Occident, I have thought it must have been some descendent of 
Bezaleel whom God inspired. I am not responsible for the wording of 
the topic as it has been announced, but I accept it — "The Spiritual 
Crisis in the Occident." From the Land of the Rising Sun to the go- 
ing down thereof beyond the Golden Gate, His name shall be great. 
There is a crisis in the Occident. " There is a tide in the affairs of 
men which taken at its flood leads on." 

As shown upon that map in an enlarged scale [indicating a map of 
Brazil] is the part of the Occident from which this crisis utters its 
voice to the volunteers. It crowds itself into a cry, " O la! vem ca!" 
If that is not your mother tongue it is the mother tongue of many a 
brother, and it is addressed to you from your brother of the Latin tongue : 
" O thou there, come here ! " Your land is bathed in sunlight. It has 
the color of gold on it, the light of the Sun of righteousness. And 
then to the south of you look at the blood, the black in red, the voice 
of your brothers' blood crieth from the very ground. [The map 
referred to showed red as the color of those parts of South America 
where the Roman Catholic religion prevails, and black those parts of 



128 

Brazil inhabited by heathen Indians.] I am aware that those who 
have possessed that part of this Occident world may find reason of 
offense ; and, not only that, but many of you will take offense at 
the truth, not because you are not of the truth, but because Christian 
charity operates in the hearts of many of God's elect to persuade them 
to try the experiment of the fable of the man who brought the frozen 
snake to his heart and warmed it. And it is not only a crisis in South 
America and Mexico, it is a crisis in our own country in regard to the 
system which arrogates to itself the name of the Holy Mother Church, 
but a church which is dry of the milk of the Gospel. The author of 
" Our Country," a book which you have all read I trust, in the first 
chapter of the book says, that what has transpired in our country in 
the last century is without precedent and must remain without a paral- 
lel, because there are no new worlds to be discovered. 

When a fellow missionary of mine read the book in the mountains 
of Brazil he said, " It makes one's hair stand on end to see the prob- 
lems which confront our Church at home." Yes ; but it ought to make 
the very blood in your heart curdle to think that we have in the South, 
in the territory of Brazil, a theatre prepared by the hand that fashioned 
the earth, for the reception of a heathen population, for the enactment 
of the same drama, and that that drama involves for the Christian 
Church a facing of those problems, with no Plymouth Rock behind us, 
and no Hugenot blood in our veins. And you have thrust out into 
that fiery furnace a few of your volunteer brethren, — twelve in the 
whole country, ten in Brazil, — and you expect them to quench the fire 
that has been consuming those nations three centuries. 

At all the conventions I ever attended among my fellow Christians 
at home, I have heard little reference to this Occidental land, to which 
the Lord of all lands in the earth calls upon us to give the Gospel. 

Two hundred and twenty-nine of your number are already in Asia, 
thirty-three are in Africa, twelve in South America, eleven in Mexico, 
two in Central America, two in Cuba, five among the Indians to the 
north of you. I could not help saying to Dr. Storrs awhile ago : " You 
call yourselves the American Board. Why do not you put an oar to 
us in the South?" Put it in their power and there will be more. 
Let there be means and men will come. But why should they go ? 
Does the cry, " O thou there, come here," touch you ? Why, if it 
were nothing more than " an infant crying in the night and with no 
language but a cry," it would touch every mother's heart here. We 
would only need to hear it without those walls to awaken compassion 
in the heart of every mother's son here. It is the cry, not of one 
infant, but of all the infants born into that land ; it is the cry of the 
men and of the women. How can I prove it? They may not be 



129 

conscious of that cry ; they may not have voiced it in words ; but 
some one has voiced it right there in the colors of the map. What 
means that black in red? The indigenous population, I suppose. 
There are .1 million of them in Brazil alone, so estimated. What do 
they know about the Gospel? They have been surrounded by that 
red color for three centuries, representing a church which says it is the 
Christian Church, charged with the mission of Christ to the nations. 
I have answered that question repeatedly. 

I met an old Brazilian at the mouth of the Amazon ninety years of 
age, who knew much of the Indians. I said, " Can you tell whether 
there has ever been any portion of the Gospel translated into the gen- 
eral tongue of the Indians ? " No," he replied, " I am interested in 
the Indians, but I have never known of any part of the Gospel being 
translated into their language. I have a catechism over two hundred 
years old, translated into their tongue by the Jesuits." He says : " Take 
the book and use it. I am too old to do anything more ; take it and 
do something for the Indians." As I opened it on the high seas 
between Para and New York I came upon a i^age with these ques- 
tions : " How many places are there to which the soul at death can 
go ? There are four. What are they ? Hell, purgatory, limbo of the 
fathers, limbo of the children. What is hell ? Hell is a fire in the 
center of the earth to which the wicked go at death. What is purga- 
tory ? Purgatory is a fire above that of hell to which the souls of the 
holy go that they may get satisfaction for sin for which they did not 
get satisfaction in this life. What is the limbo of the fathers ? It is 
a cavern above purgatory to which the souls of the holy fathers went 
formerly, before that Jesus Christ was manifested in the flesh to take 
them out." On the margin of this catechism some one had written, 
opposite the definition of the limbo of the fathers, words in Portuguese 
which translated read, " It is now for rent." I read that to a friend in 
New York and he said, " It will do for the brethren of the new theol- 
ogy." The catechism continued : " What is the limbo of the chil- 
dren ? " O ye mothers hear ! " It is a cavern above the limbo of the 
fathers, into which the souls of little children who died without bap- 
tism go, a land of darkness and of the shadow of death, to wander for- 
ever." 

Is that an obsolete doctrine ? As you ride through the roads of 
Brazil and pass by any cemetery you will see little catacombs outside 
of the walls of the cemeteries, and you will inquire what they are. 
They are the tombs of children who could not go into holy ground 
because their souls had gone to limbo. They died without baptism, 
and they cannot go to heaven. They are buried in stone like the stony 
heart of the holy mother church that tells this to the mothers to 
whom Christ said, " Let the little children come unto me." 



130 

Is that confined to this church in South America ? No, no ! If the 
artist had been a little truer, there would have been streaks of this 
very red fire of purgatory running all through this yellow [referring to 
the United States, which was colored yellow on the map, as indicating 
the predominance of Protestantism]. It is taught here. You do not 
believe it perhaps. Some of you have read, " Our Christian Heritage," 
by Cardinal Gibbons, and you are persuaded that that is what Rome 
teaches ; and you are inclined to be very charitable to the church that 
teaches after all the truth. Rome is Babylon ; Rome teaches both 
things ; Romes faces about ; Rome confounds men, she confounds the 
very elect. That is not the book that Cardinal Gibbons wrote for his 
own church ; he wrote it for you. He wrote another book, " The Faith 
of Our Fathers," which is both ; it has two faces. You find that 
Rome is uM semper eadem, here and everywhere. People tell you 
Rome is different here from what it is in South America. It is the 
same difference you will notice in a ship sailing with every stitch of 
canvas, straight on her course into port, as she has done in South 
America, and has cast her anchor, and the same ship beating up against 
head winds, obliged sometimes to tack and run back on her course. It 
is her own boast. 

Now, what does the red in that map mean ? Not only the fire of 
purgatory for the souls of the holy, but the fire for the word of God. 
Let me voice the cry again of an old gray-headed Brazilian, who said 
to me in 1865, in San Paulo: "Young man, what was yom* father 
about? My [father died without knowing there was a Bible in the 
world. You say you have had it always. Why do you not have 
compassion, why do you not have a fellow-feeling ? My father was a 
religious man. He taught me all that he ever knew, but he never said 
" Bible " to me. He died without knowing there was such a book ; 
and here it is in my hands now, and I find that he was wrong." I 
said to him : " My friend, when my father and those who lived with 
him attempted to put this book into your father's hands, it was contra- 
band in the custom house. It was only lately that the civil arm has 
broken the ecclesiastical in this respect, and the word of God is coming 
up the mountain ranges. What are you going to do ? " "I shall see 
that my boys shall have no complaint of me. I know it is the word of 
God, and approves itself to my conscience." I saw him a few years 
ago, a leader in the presbytery at San Paulo. He came to represent a 
church in his neighborhood, and he said : " Now I can say, ' Lord, let 
thy servant depart in peace, for mine eyes hath seen thy salvation.' 
My boys " — he had twelve and a daughter — " my boys are all mar- 
ried. My grandchildren are growing up in the knowledge of this 
book, and now I am ready to go home." I said: "Senor Henrico, 



131 

what you have done is for your own children. Kemember the children 
about you." " I shall take care of that as long as the Lord keeps me 
alive," he replied. And he does ; wherever he goes the Bible goes in 
his pocket, and he gives it to others or reads it to them. He is a 
representative of the white population. If I were to put old Henrico 
Gomez on this stand you could not distinguish him from any Anglo- 
Saxon in this land. 

I have spoken of the Indian. What other classes are there there ? 
We have two millions of black freedmen, sons of Brazil, now free, but 
many of them natives of Africa, speaking the lingo of their own people, 
remembering the scenes of their childhood in Africa, and yearning to 
go back. A million of Indians, two millions of Africans, ten millions 
of Portuguese, and their descendants. They mingled in the early 
colonial times with the Indians, and we have the mestizoes. They 
mingled with the negro in later times, and formed the mulatto class. 
We have every shade of color in Brazil ; we are cosmopolitan. We 
cannot draw the color line at our communion table or anywhere else ; 
if you drew a color line it would be a zig-zag streak of lightning 
which would knock everybody down. In describing the condition of 
these thirteen millions of Brazil, I describe the condition of the rest of 
South America and of Mexico. In speaking of their condition I have 
only represented to you their need, and that is a voice, — silent it may 
be, unconscious to them, — the voice of your brother's blood, and it 
crieth from the very earth. 

But that is not the only crisis. What is a crisis ? Look at your 
dictionary ; spelt it with a k; think of the Greek — to separate, to 
divide, to determine, to condemn. You look under crime, coming 
from the same root — to separate, to determine, to decide ; it is a 
crisis. How closely they are related, crime and crisis. The failure to 
respond to the crisis at this time of the Lord's judgment, when He is 
manifestly expressing His judgment as to what His Church ought to 
do, will become a crime from this day forward if this Volunteer Move- 
ment does not imply also the giving of the Gospel of Christ as freely 
to our brethren of the rest of this hemisphere as we have received it 
from our forefathers. You and I can never say again, as I said to the 
old man who first asked me why we had not had compassion, we can 
never say' again, that there was no freedom, for, by the judgments of 
the Lord which have been in the earth in the last few years, there is 
now absolute freedom, so far as the republic of the United States of 
Brazil is concerned, and there is almost absolute freedom in regard to 
the rest of the land ; that is, there is no limit upon the giving of the 
Gospel to them except the limit of our will power, of our volunteering 
power. When the judgments of the Lord are abroad in the earth the 



132 

inhabitants should learn righteousness. What has the Lord been say- 
ing to us in these last eighteen months ? Why did he thrust eighteen 
representatives of the South American governments into the very eye 
of this nation in October and November of 1889? And vrhy, on the 
very day of their opening their session for consultation, did the tele- 
graph tell us that there was no more a throne on this continent? 
Think! Between the rising and the setting of the sun, God had 
allowed the tides to come together, — liberal, conservative, and repub- 
lican, — and they had rushed together at His bidding, and they lifted 
the last throne on this continent, and floated it clear over the Atlantic 
Ocean, and it will never come back ; and with it they floated the hopes 
of Rome as to her domination, yet it hastened to bless the republic. 
The Archbishop of Bahia, within three weeks after the babe was born, 
sent the papal blessing to them ; that meant, " Bless me ; do not cut 
off my revenue." But when the revenues were cut off by the govern- 
ment determining that there should be thenceforward no state patron- 
age, that every one should have the right to express his opinions with- 
out prejudicing his rights as a citizen, the church began to curse, not 
openly but inwardly, and issued a proclamation that unless the consti- 
tution suffered modification they would find themselves confronted by 
the apostolate, as the twelve bishops called themselves and the twelve 
millions of Roman Catholics ; and they began to form their clerical 
party. But they found themselves so weak that they did not dare to 
put one man in nomination. The elections came on on the 16th 
of September, the convention met on the 15th of November, 1890, 
and the constitution was adopted on the 24th of February, 1891, 
amid the acclamations of all. On the 25th of February they elected 
their President, under a constitutional regime copied closely from oui- 
own, and superior to it in points already recognized as defective in 
ours. 

What does this mean? We cannot separate Jesus Chi-ist fi-om 
politics ; He puts up whom He will and puts down whom He will. 
" Be wise therefore, O ye kings, be instructed, ye judges of the earth ; 
serve the Lord." What does it mean for you ? How shall they call 
upon Him whom they have not known ? But you say, Are they not 
Christians? were they not baptized in the name of the Father, Son, 
and Holy Ghost ? But what does that mean ? Men confront me with 
that argument, and say they baptize in the name of the Father and of 
the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Of course they do. Did you ever 
know the forger of a note to be careless in imitating the signature. 
The question is. Does it represent buUion? is there anything back of it? 
Who is the Father ? A Jupiter Tonans, with a thunder bolt ready to 
hurl upon you ? Who is the Son ? Nominally a mediator, but dis- 



133 

placed by the saints — they have not enough days in the calendar for 
all of them, so they have the Day of All Saints. And not only this 
host of obstacles, but above all the mother of God : to her you must 
appeal, whether in South America or here or anywhere where that 
system dominates. Why? Well, in the minds of the people it is 
sifted down to this plain logic : What kind of a son would he be if he 
did not obey his mother ? But does this lie only so in the minds of 
the people? When the twelve bishops of Brazil returned from the 
Vatican Council they held a jubilee, and the bishop of the diocese of 
San Joseph said to the assembled priests and students : " The church 
is happy to have for a universal patron so powerful a one as St. Joseph. 
These are troublous times for the bark of St. Peter, and we need a 
strong arm on the helm, and St. Joseph is duas vezes omnipotente. 
He is the putative father of Jesus Christ, and the legitimate spouse of 
the mother of God. It is written in the Gospel that Jesus was subject 
to His parents. And the legitimate spouse is obedient to her husband." 
If that had been picked up by one of our reporters we might have 
stood in some doubt as to the accuracy of it. But it was published in 
the ultramontane organ " O Apostolo," and gloried in, and it repre- 
sents what that dominant church calls the truth. 

Need of the Gospel of Christ there is. Is there a supply ? That 
depends upon you. Is there a demand ? Oh ! if I could carry you 
there and confront you with the hungry-eyed people who want to 
know all about it, you would know whether there is a demand for the 
Gospel. Need? Yes. Demand? Yes. Supply? Twelve men. For 
what? Consider that without touching any other portion of South 
America you have in Brazil, a territory equal to that of the United 
States; that you have not only that 13,000,000 of people there need- 
ing the Gospel, but inevitably in this generation millions yet to come to 
whom we must minister the Gospel. Slavery is gone. Brazil is as 
hungry for labor as a dry sponge for water. It is going to gather in 
men from every quarter of the Orient, where there is a superabund- 
ance, and we are to confront there these problems which make your 
hair stand on end at home, notmthstanding all your resources of 
churches and other societies of the Christian Church. All of these 
problems are to be thrust upon us vsdthin a generation. Do we need 
you ? Yes ; if we had you all down there you would find work. And 
the cry to each one of you is, " O there, come here ! " When I heard 
that cry first, it was uttered just .it this point [indicating on the map], 
half way between Rio Janerio and San Paulo, on those mountains. It 
was the cry of one man lost on the mountains, and it brought up the 
mountain side twelve Brazilians. That man voices the cry of 13,000,- 
000 to you, out of the way they are, not for a night, but for eternity, 
unless you succor them with the word of God. 



134 

Rev. Judson Smith, D.D., of the American Board, addressed the 
Convention on — 

The Spiritual Claims of the Orient. 

Young Christian friends of the Volunteer Movement, it has been 
a great pleasure to me these days to sit here with you and share in 
your deliberations, catch the spirit that animates you, and come a little 
closer to the purpose that fills your hearts, and to note how your eyes 
and souls look away from these scenes to the distant lands whence that 
call is that has raised your hearts and caused you to put name and 
purpose to this Movement to which you belong. As I have sat here 
and noted the numbers, the spirit, the strength of the Movement, I 
have drawn a contrast in my mind with a movement like this in its 
interior aim something more than a century ago ; for the Volunteer 
Movement for Foreign Missions did not begin in 1886, at Mt. Hermon; 
indeed, it did not begin at the time of which I speak. But a century 
ago there was a movement full of interest, fascinating to study, in- 
structive to you, young friends, to-day. 

Go to Northamptonshire in England; look in upon the humble 
home there where a young man sat upon the cobbler's bench and 
gathered patiently, laboriously, the facts about the world of his times. 
And, that he may impress upon himself and upon others more dis- 
tinctly the facts as he ascertains them, he makes a rude map, — sketches 
the countries of which he reads, — and as he gathers his facts writes 
them in — the people, their habits, their religious convictions, and their 
needs. And that map hangs before him day by day, its facts filling 
up, the world becoming more and more distinct to his view, impressing 
his mind and teaching his heart. And when others come into that 
shop of William Carey, he does not speak to them of the gossip of the 
day, but he tm-ns their thoughts to that which fills his own soul, and 
repeats the facts he has ascertained, and seeks to impress upon them 
the spiritual needs of the wide world. And, as his eye follows land 
after land, — these are heathen, and these are heathen, and these are 
heathen, — his mind is overwhelmed and his eyes gush out in tears. 
My friends, there is instruction as well as fascination in that wonderful 
story, the beginning of the missionary interest in William Carey, which 
raised up the English Baptist Missionary Society, and at length brought 
him, the first volunteer of that movement, out into India to the splendid 
career as a missionary which he there ran. 

The course he followed, I take it, is that which you have followed. 
That which moved you has been, not so much the difficulty of Mission- 
ary Boards, as another difficulty, not distinctly uttered in human 
speech, but wafted on the night air, speaking of spiritual destitution 



135 

among the millions and hundreds of millions that dwell upon the face 
of the earth and know not God. You have heard the voice of China's 
millions, a voice that is not articulate, but that to the Christian's heart 
appeals more resistlessly because it has no cry, because the hearts that 
speak it are not yet sensible of all their need. 

The fact of heathenism, which was the great fact in all William 
Carey's studies, that shaped his life to that marvelous career, is to-day 
just as appealing and just as dark as it was to him. Geographically it 
is spread all over the face of the earth wellnigh as broadly now as 
then. It is a greater fact than it was in his day. The heathen popu- 
lation of that day, under his estimate, was 430,000,000 ; but even with 
a just estimate of the facts of his day, the heathen population of the 
world to-day is greatly in excess of what it was in his day. We 
reckon it up at over 850,000,000. The heathen population needing 
the knowledge of God, who make their appeal to the Christian people 
of to-day, are more numerous now than then — not that missions have 
failed, but the population of the world has increased, that of heathen 
lands equally with the population in other lands. 

Now, for a moment, let us pass over in our thought the facts which 
are so famiUar, which we have often studied. I wish to turn your 
thought specially to the heathen peoples of our day. They are the 
people among whom the Bible and redemption through Jesus Christ 
are not found. I do not say they are the people among whom God is 
not known, for He hath not left himself without witness to any people. 
They are the people among whom the Bible, Jesus Christ, and redemp- 
tion through him are unknown, where false religions and idolatry pre- 
vail. We understand that very well. They include 850,000,000 — the 
greater part of the population of Asia, the vast bulk of the population 
of Africa, considerable portions of the populations of America and the 
Islands of the; Sea. We may well follow Carey's own method to im- 
press the thought upon our minds ; and as the eye passes from conti- 
nent to continent [indicating map], from nation to nation, and from 
people to people, and we recall that these are heathen, 200,000,000 ; 
these are heathen, 250,000,000 ; these are heathen, 350,000,000, — what 
can words express of the thought that comes before us ? Well may our 
hearts sink under the weight, and our eyes, too, flow down with tears 
for the waste, the weary waste, that is in the world in which we live, 
where light is for us in noonday brightness, but where these millions — 
more than half the population of the globe — are in midnight gloom. 
They know not the God whom we worship. The Bible that reveals 
Him, that brings home the truth to us, is to them an unknown book. 
Jesus Christ, in whom our life centers, from whom our light comes, 
with whom are wrapped up all our blessings and all our hopes, is un- 



136 

known to them. Let us look a little more closely into this fact of 
heathenism — the condition and the needs of the heathen world. 
There is a tendency in our day, — I think we are all sensible of it and 
come under its influence to some degree, — a tendency to idealize the 
condition of the heathen and the heathen world. We know them so 
much better; we have looked into their condition in various ways. 
Ethnologically they are interesting to us. We know their language 
and literature in the same way ; and in a merely scientific view there 
is much to attract attention and to divert attention from the central 
fact upon which Christian thought fixes and toward which Christian 
sympathy is directed. I have heard the people of Japan spoken of in 
terms that would at once, if there true weight were to be received, 
awaken in every one's heart a desire to go that he might sit at the feet 
of a people so polite ; they are so cultivated, and possessed of every- 
thing the human heart could wish. But how false is that idea. The 
Japanese are sunk down in spiritual death ; they know not Jesus 
Christ ; their life is not moulded by His Spirit ; they have not the 
word of God. They are heathen, and they need the salvation of Jesus 
Christ. The very term " heathen " is often thought to be a reproach. 
The Japanese do not wish to be called a heathen people, and their so- 
called friends oppose the name. They say, " Do not speak of them or 
of the Hindoos as heathen people ; you may speak of them as un- 
evangelized." I think that influence overspreads the Christian world 
to some degree to-day ; and I think that so far as it has weight it 
dampens missionary enthusiasm ; for a people that do not greatly need 
the Gospel are a people that we do not greatly care to seek out and 
supply with the Gospel. 

That which moved Carey was that there were thousands of millions 
sinking into death without the light of Christian knowledge, having no 
hope and without God in the world. They are there to-day : they are 
in China to-day, they are in Japan to-day, by the million and the hun- 
dred million, without a ray of the light that shines on us, without one 
whisper of the Gospel that comes to us full-toned and sweet and 
resistless. Life for them has no future that can inspire desire. Life 
has for them no aim that can lift up to noble purpose. Heaven, they 
know it not. Heathenism, I suppose, to-day is essentially the same 
that it was in our Saviour's day. I know that the conditions of people 
differ greatly. I grant at once that the Japanese or Chinese or Hin- 
doos are a cultivated people relatively ; that the African tribes and the 
people that inhabit the South Sea Islands have sunken low relatively. 
But I know, also, that at the heart of the life of them all there is the 
want of the knowledge of the true God, of love and faith and hope 
that lift up man and make him truly the child of God and the heir of 
immortality. 



137 

What was heathenism in our Saviour's day ? Read the first chap- 
ter of Paul's Epistle to the Romans, and you have an inspired descrip- 
tion. Paul was writing to the Romans, the most cultivated people of 
his day, the heirs of the glories of Grecian civihzation as well as of the 
civilization that Rome itself had nourished and carried forward. He 
writes to them and he speaks of the condition of that people, and you 
mark the depravity which he depicts and the awful fruits of that 
depravity, the enmities, the jealousies, the hatreds, the unnatural pas- 
sions, the devouring lusts, the hopelessness, the blackness of despair 
that rests upon a people that know not God. But Paul, you will say, is 
an interested writer, a disciple of Jesus Christ, and perhaps he exag- 
gerates. Go then to Horace, the poet of the Augustan age, and read 
what he says of the very Roman world of which Paul writes. Read 
the satirists of the day, the historians of the day, and you will find the 
colors with which Paul paints the condition of the Roman world are 
not too glaring. Read Ulhorn's " Conflict of Christianity with Heath- 
enism," the first two chapters, if you would have in a later form a 
lively sense of the condition of the heathen world as it was when 
Christianity came. Heathenism is, I suppose, essentially the same 
fact that it was among the Germans, the Britons, the Scandinavians, 
when the Gospel went among them. What bloodthirsty, cruel, coarse 
peoples they were I We go to Central Africa to-day to find their par- 
allel. Heathenism in Africa is what heathenism was in those coun- 
tries. And we know what it was, — a record of crime, of a people 
without hght, without uplift, without hope, without prayer, without 
the inspiration which Christianity alone can kindle in the human heart. 

But we have heathenism described in our own day. We need not 
go even back to those remote days. Travelers, missionaries, have been 
in the midst of heathenism as it exists to-day, and we know what their 
testimony is. I do not mean the travelers that stop a few days at a 
port and come home and write their record ; I mean men like Stanley, 
who have gone into the heart-darkness of the earth, and have told the 
truth that they have seen with their own eyes. Read Stanley's " In 
Darkest Africa," and imagine the life of the tribes through which he 
passed, devouring one another, without a gleam of the light celestial, 
and yet capable — and this is the most interesting thing in Stanley's 
testimony — capable, as he believes, of the best things, if only the cul- 
ture of heaven shall come. Read Mackay's account of the beginning 
of his work in Ugunda ; how after the friendship and the delightful 
exterior of King Mtesa, with whom he had so much to do, had been 
penetrated a little, he found him a bloodthirsty king, who, without a 
thought, would sacrifice two thousand subjects in a day. Read what 
Judson reported of Bui-mah when he went there. Read what Carey re- 



138 

ported of India when he went there to do his work. Bead what Williams 
tells of the South Sea Islands, where he lost his life. Go to the stories 
that were brought back from the Hawaiian Islands seventy years ago : 
a Christian nation in the accepted sense of the term, seventy years ago 
occupied by a people pagan, barbarous, bestial, sunken beyond hope. 
Look at the Fiji Islands : fifty years ago pagan and cannibal, but now 
redeemed and sitting in the beauty of the King. 

There is no moral destitution, no moral desolation on the face of 
the earth, that for a moment begins to compare with that which broods 
over the lands of heathenism. I am not saying that^every heathen mind 
is as dark as every other; I speak of the general fact, whether in 
India, China, the Islands of the Sea, or darkest Afi-ica. Go to darkest 
London, it is hideous enough ; it should be impossible in a Christian 
city. Go to darkest New York ; it should be impossible in the light 
of this nineteenth century and in America. But darkest London set 
down in China would shine like a candle of light in the darkness that 
is about it. Darkest New York set down in Africa would be shedding 
abroad, by comparison, the light of the Kingdom in the midst of that 
dark land. In England, in London, in New York, in America, 
Christianity is dominant; it breathes through all literature, through 
all public sentiment ; it is expressed in architecture, in art of every 
form, in life, in institutions. But in Africa there is nothing like that, 
in China there is nothing like that ; it is a great wide sea of human life 
apart from God, hopeless, sinking down in death and dark despair. 
Those who come the nearest to it know best what an abyss it is ; 
those who have lived among it come back to us to tell how stifling it 
is to live in the midst of heathenism, how nothing but the grace of 
Jjod enables a man to labor in the hope of the coming Kingdom. 

I think I have already indicated the need by what I have spoken 
regarding the condition of heathen lands. What do they need? 
Why, we begin to say, they need better modes of dress, better homes, 
better forms of industry, a greater variety of occupations - — a thousand 
things. I grant it all ; they need them all undoubtedly, in a sense. 
But we have not touched their deepest need. We may take the 
telegraph, steam, electricity, everything that we possess, and if the 
Gospel has not gone before, if it has not opened the way, if it does 
not open the way, if it does not furnish the permanent condition for 
these arts, they are useless. They will not lift up a nation ; they will 
not maintain themselves in the midst of a people that know not God. 

What these people need is just that which in the early day went 
into the old corrupt society of Rome and leavened it, wellnigh to the 
preservation of that decaying empire ; that which went into the virgin 
soil of England and lifted it out of barbaric night, step by step, century 



139 

by century, to the noonday of Clnistian civilization in which she sita 
and is mistress of the world to-day. That is what these peoples need 
— the Gospel of Jesus Christ, not culture. Rome had culture, and she 
fell. Greece had culture, and she fell. Culture could not save those 
nations, nor can like culture save the nations of to-day. It is redemp- 
tion that the lost world needs ; it is the evangel of goodwill to men, 
peace on earth, the words that calm the weary heart wherever the 
Gospel is preached. 

Missionary work has been established in nearly all these heathen 
lands of which I speak ; we are not at the very beginning. Carey 
stood much nearer the beginning of this work. Step by step India, 
China, Japan, the Islands, and Africa, have been opened. There is 
scarcely a land on the face of the earth to-day that is not accessible to 
the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I know there are great portions of the 
world where the Gospel is not found. I know of the fifty millions of 
the Soudan, where no missionary is, and of Thibet, where there is no 
missionary. But the gates there are open ; the triple bars are broken 
and the highway is building ; and this missionary work not only has 
been introduced, but it has made progress. 

I am not of those who think the Gospel is to be once sounded 
around the world and that then its errand will be done. I believe the 
Gospel is to be preached the wide world round, generation after gener- 
ation, until the nations are born into the kingdom of Jesus Christ. I 
believe that China is to become a Christian nation in as high a sense as 
the United States is a Christian nation to-day, — the great bulk of its 
population gathered into churches, living in Christian homes, the move- 
ment of life there led by Jesus Christ. I think that a revolution is to 
come to India ; it has begun. It is to come to Africa ; it has begun in 
that great continent. Give the Gospel time enough. There is power 
enough in it to redeem the human race ; and that is God's promise 
concerning it, and that is the inspiring hope which is to dwell in our 
hearts, and to make us patient to labor underground, generation after 
generation, in the faithful expectation that the generation will come 
that shall see the structure so founded rise in beauty, to the glory of 
God and the salvation of the race. 

But, as to the success which the Gospel has already achieved, I 
refer to the 3,000,000 adherents of Christian churches and the fact of 
the Bible translated already into 300 tongues, so that nine-tenths of 
the human race, might, if they would, read the word of God in their 
native tongues ; I also refer to the 6,000 missionaries. The number is 
not so great as 400,000, but it is 6,000 better than nothing. And 
3,000,000 are not many compared with the thousand millions yet to be 
reached; but a century ago there were none of these 3,000,000. 



140 

3,000,000 in a century! — let that process go on. In not so long 
a time the 3,000,000 will be 30,000,000, and in another period 
not so long, 300,000,000, and in another period not so long the 
300,000,000 will be the entu-e multitude on the face of the earth 
that know not God. The progress of missions has been so great 
already, that if the same forces operate along the same line with the 
same increase, we can look hopefully for the conversion of the world, 
I know not whether in this generation — the evangelization of the 
world may be achieved in this generation ; the conversion of the world 
may come two, or three, or five generations hence ; I cannot say how 
many, but it is coming. The Christian population of the earth to-day 
is multiplying faster than any other : in India this is true, in China it 
is true, in Japan it is true. In 1877 there were 13,000 converts in the 
Protestant missions of China ; in 1890, more than 36,000. Population 
in China has not grown like that. 

But, despite all this, we face the fact to-day that great as the suc- 
cess of missions has been so far, the results yet to be reached are vastly 
in excess of former results. I refer to statistics in the Missionary 
Review, but will not vouch for their accuracy. In India the work of 
missions has been prosecuted for one hundred years. We have about 
900 missionaries, one to 275,000 souls in that great empire. In Africa, 
where missions have been prosecuted for some seventy years, we have 
about 600 missionaries. In China, where mission work has been prose- 
cuted for eighty years, there are 600 missionaries; this of course 
means ordained missionaries, or one to about 660,000 of the population. 
Those are the three countries where the mass of the heathen people is 
found ; and see what the missionary force is at present : one to 275,000 
in India, one to 450,000 in Africa, one to 650,000 in China. The work 
is just begun. It is a dawn that promises a glorious noon ; but it is a 
dawn, it is the beginning of the movement, and you, young friends, 
have come to the kingdom at a glorious time. 

I have sketched the condition of the heathen world as I have on 
purpose not to discourage or dishearten you by the greatness of your 
task; but rather that you may face the facts and brace yourselves in the 
Lord to the mighty and difficult and long problem which you attempt, 
in the assurance that He who has given the word of command will also 
give the strength, and in due time will give the victory. The Shang- 
hai Conference called for a thousand men within the next five years for 
China, a very modest request. The missionaries did not say all that 
was in their hearts. They measured their requests by what they sup- 
posed to be the readiness of Christian lands to respond. I understand 
the China Inland Mission proposes to call for a thousand additional 
men for its own work in the next five years. The other societies ought 



141 

to put in the thousand additional called for by the Shanghai Confer- 
ence. And that would mean that every man who goes there should 
have his wife ; and that would mean some 4,000 in five years. 
India needs as many as China. Were her missionaries to voice her 
needs, they would not fall short of the call of the Shanghai Confer- 
ence. Africa, could her missionaries speak, would say she too must 
have her thousand in this five years. 6,000, counting the wives 
of missionaries, and single men, makes up the entire foreign missionary 
roll to-day. That' should be doubled in two years ; we want it quad- 
rupled in five years ; and let the good work of multiplication go on, as 
the Boards at home promote and the Boards abroad invite. 

And now I come to the last point, and I speak to you who repre- 
sent the institutions of learning in the United States and Canada — 
Christian America. What is the part of America in this great work ? 
It is significant to notice the part that America already has. Of the 
200 foreign missionary societies about 70 belong to America ; more 
than one-third of the foreign missionary societies, of the laborers, and 
of the money that go abroad come from America. This is a sugges- 
tion of what is the divine purpose regarding our relation to this work. 
We have come to it by the leading of that Divine Providence that still 
leads on. We are well able to respond to the call. Our colleges and 
seminaries were never so full as now. Thousands of our choicest 
youth, the best material for missionaries, are in our schools. You are 
their representatives, 500 strong ; you are here representing more than 
6,000 of those who have heard the call and have responded. The 
potency of America to respond to her part of this great work that 
opens abroad is demonstrated. I rejoice in the signs of the times. I 
know no event of modern missions more impressive, more full of prom- 
ise, than this Student Volunteer Movement. 

Again, wealth, which constitutes the sinews of missionary work, 
how it multiplies in our land ! You who heard those remarkable ad- 
dresses last evening do not need that I shall more than touch upon the 
theme. There is money enough here to set this work, not simply upon 
its feet, but to multiply it tenfold immediately, without di-awing upon 
our resources. Here is the immediate problem resting upon the 
Church; the problem rests not a little on you to solve. You seek 
to go to the foreign fields. It is for you to raise the money, to stir the 
churches. Were the churches ready to send Judson and his compan- 
ions abroad ? No ; but the young man appealed to the churches, and 
the appeal drew opt the resources needed. Your appeals are needed 
in the churches of the land to-day. It is the call of the hour. There 
has never been such a call since the world began ; there has never been 
a day like this in Christian times before, — the wide world open, the 



142 

opposition that we have met giving way, the false faiths with which 
we grapple yielding and preparing for flight, our youth rising up to go 
where the open doors summon, and the wealth of the land more than 
sufficient for all the need. In this close grapple of the Gospel with 
the sin of the world, through slow progress, defeats, and successes, 
we begin to find the opposition that we have met weakening, the 
forces that have barred the way dispersing. And out of the open 
visions we may hear the inspiring word of the Master, " Surely I come 
quickly ; " and in the midst of our toil and strife it is for us to answer, 
half a prayer and half a shout, " Even so, come. Lord Jesus ! " 



FOURTH DAY, SUNDAY, MARCH 1. 

Morning Session. 

The consecration meeting was conducted by Mr. Robert E. Speer, 
who said : — 

Fellow students, this is our holy hour. The Lord Himself conse- 
crates this morning time by prayer. It was on the first day of the 
week, the day after the Sabbath on which He healed Simon's wife's 
mother and all the diseased people who were brought to Him at the 
sunsetting, that in the morning, rising up a great while before day, He 
went out into a solitary place and prayed as we need to pray. May it 
be with the quietness, and, in some sense, the loneliness that marked 
Him. And may He teach us His great longing too. We have said to 
Him this morning, " If ever I loved Thee, my Jesus, 'tis now.'' As in 
our song a moment ago we stood before the bleeding One, we told Him 
we were conscious we could not repay His gift with drops of grief ; and 
I trust we all meant it truthfully when we said we would give our 
hearts, our lives, ourselves — all — into His hands. Was this the first 
time we have talked thus to Jesus, or is this contrite kneeling at His 
feet an old scene in our lives? How often are we to die to the world 
and to self and to come anew into the life of God ? There was one 
Calvary for Christ ; there must be one for each of us. And so now, 
just a few minutes at the beginning of the stillness of this consecration 
hour, I want to speak of something in the life of our brother Paul 
which may help to make our position before Jesus, not merely momen- 
tary and passing, but permanent and abiding — his three ambitions. 

The word which Paul uses to signify " being ambitious " is trans- 
lated differently in the Old Version in each of the three passages where 
it occurs. The Revised Version translates it uniformly "making it my 
aim." But we shall learn most of what was in the old missionary's de- 
voted heart if we keep the words just as he wrote them — "I am am- 
bitious." 

The first of these three ambitions is in the fifteenth chapter of 
Romans, the twentieth verse : " Yea, so have I been ambitious to 
preach the gospel, not where Christ was named, lest I should build 
upon another man's foundation. But, as it is written. To whom He 
was not spoken of, they shall see : and they that have not heard shall 
understand." Almost all of us here this morning have been given by 
the Holy Spirit a share in this desire of Paul's ; but perhaps we have 



144 

not made it an ambition. An ambition is a mighty thing. I remem- 
ber with tears before Him this morning some that I used to have that 
were terrible in their power and their unwillingness to yield to any 
obstacles. Not many of us here have escaped awful struggles with 
these things when the Lord was leading us into the secret of His pres- 
ence. Shall we not transfer all the power and passion that used to be 
in these old desires, transfigured with the glory of our new devotion, 
to this ambition to preach to those who have never heard His name? 
There are obstacles of home and friends, of selfish longings or worldly 
temptations, in the way of every one. Nothing but an overmastering 
ambition will carry us over these into the lightless lands. There are 
mournful and discouraging voices on every side. It is enough to say 
boldly with Paul, " I am covetous of the honor of preaching the gos- 
pel where Christ has not been named." We are told over and over 
that ambitions are worldly things. It depends on their end and spirit, 
fellow students. If the end is in Him and the spirit is of Him, we 
need not be afraid. Why did Paul yearn to have this privilege? 
" Lest I should build upon another man's foundation." He was build- 
ing a house of gold and silver and precious stones, and he did not want 
to run the risk of having his work ruined by building on a foundation 
of wood and hay and stubble, which some one else had laid. Or, was 
it that the number then, as now, of those willing to build on the stones 
which others have laid was large, while few, very few, walked after 
the example of Him who " must preach in other cities also," or of His 
servant who was forever passing into " regions beyond " ? Oh, my 
fellow students ! is this passion strong enough within you to build on 
foundations which your own hands have laid, to let your lips syllable 
the Name in absolutely unillumined countries ? If it is His will, may 
the good God, the great Giver, quicken in us strongly this great am- 
bition. 

Paul's second ambition lay deeper and broader even than his first. 
It is in the Second Epistle to the Corinthians, the fifth chapter and the 
ninth verse : " Wherefore we are ambitious, that, whether at home 
or [absent, we may be well ^pleasing to Him." That dear Friend, 
who came not to be ministered unto but to minister, and who gave 
His life a ransom for many, — let us remember it was " for many," — 
realized this perfectly in His life : " He that sent me is with me : 
the Father hath not left me alone ; for I do always those things that 
please Him." This was the witness which the Holy Ghost bore of 
Enoch that " God translated him, for before his translation he had this 
testimony that he pleased God." Paul's Christian life began this way : 
" It pleased God to reveal His' Son in me that I might preach Him 
among the heathen." And so begun, the passion grew upon him, that 



145 

whether at home in this body or absent from it and present with the 
Lord, always he might be well pleasing to Him. Let us test our lives 
on this touch-stone to-day. Am I here this morning only to please 
Him? Did I become a volunteer only to please Him? Are the 
thoughts in my mind and the loves in my heart just now pleasing to 
Him? Aye, am I living my life solely with reference to pleasing 
Him? And now we see why Paul was ambitious to preach where 
Christ had not been named. It was because he coveted the honor of 
pleasing Him. It may be that some of us who have been cherishing 
these two ambitions may have to give up the first ; we cannot give up 
the second. I trust it may not happen ; but suppose He should hold 
us back, " not permitting " us, are we ready in this to be well pleasing 
in His sight ? If this sharp sword cuts as it is pressed against the dis- 
pleasing things in our hearts, let us endure it quietly ; we shall be better 
men and women when the pain is past. And as we let the Purifier do 
His work within us, it is added joy to remember the truth which John 
knew so well, that afterward we shall have increased power in prayer. 
" Whatsoever we ask we receive of Him, because we do those things 
that are pleasing in His sight." 

And now, lastly, will you turn to the First Epistle to the 
Thessalonians, the eleventh verse of the fourth chapter : " And that ye 
be ambitious to be qtiiet." It is an echo of the Lord's words, " I am 
meek and lowly in heart." " Be ambitious," says Paul, " to put on 
that ornament of which Peter speaks, even a meek and quiet spirit." 
He did not mean that they were to be idle, for he added in the same 
verse, " and work with your own hands." It was not that they were 
to stop thinking, for had he not told the Corinthians that, far from 
that, they were to bring every thought into captivity to the obedience 
of Christ ? Were they to refrain from speaking with their lips ? Not 
so long as men remembered that He said just a little while before 
He was parted from them, " Preach the gospel to every creature." 
None of these. Be ambitious to have your life full of that breathing 
stillness, that holy quietness, which filled His. Oh, my fellow students ! 
how noisy these rough, boisterous lives of ours have been. In our 
prayers this morning shall we not ask that that loving Voice, which 
spoke peace to the tumultuous waters, may quiet also the turbulence of 
our souls? 

May it be to the glory of our gathering for these few days that 
every soul shall gain these three ambitions, and shall keep them until 
death as the controlling and molding principles of life. I pray that 
the third one may be realized in this hour ; for He who was a man of 
sorrows and acquainted with grief, who as a lamb before her shearers 
is dumb, so opened not His mouth, who pleased not Himself, but did 



146 

always the things that pleased His Father, learning obedience by the 
things that He suffered, who said of Himself that He was meek and 
lowly in heart, He knew and loved and lived this quiet life. And 
would it not please Him, — and to please Him was the object of the 
second of these ambitions, — would it not please Him, who came to 
give the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness, and the oil of joy 
for mourning, if we should clothe ourselves also with the ornament of 
a meek and a quiet spirit? As we spend the rest of this hour in 
prayer, may our petitions and our thanksgiving be increasingly trustful 
in their expression of the new longings growing up within us. 

Afternoon Session. 

Counsel was given to volunteers by returned foreign missionaries 
in the form of testimony or exhortation, and called by the moderator 
" a nugget meeting." 

Mrs. S. B. Capron, thirty years in the Madura Mission, India, 
said : — 

I have only a word to say to the volunteers. I want you all to ask 
yourselves, are you able to repeat yourself in others ? If you are not, 
the sooner you learn the lesson the better. The greatest work that 
you will do on the foreign missionary ground is to do your best work 
through the native oatechists, pastors, teachers, schoolmasters, and 
schoolmistresses. Now, if you are not willing or able to repeat 
yourself in others, I beseech of you make the experiment now, 
before you are on foreign missionary ground. For the natives, 
from the pastors down, will every one of them read you through 
and through in less than three weeks, and know just about what 
manner of spirit you are. And if you would like a suggestion as 
to how this may be done, just in the sphere where you are, notice 
whether any one comes to you within three or four weeks' space of 
time and says to you, " What you said in the meeting the other night 
helped me." Has any one said that to you? Then take courage. 
Then find five or six childi-en and see whether you can make an 
impression on them and get them to doing things. If you can, take 
courage from this beautiful passage in Hosea, " They that dwell under 
his shadow shall return." There is no shadow without sun, and the 
Lord expects us to be able to do this for Him on foreign missionary 
ground. If you have an idea that you are going to do the same work 
there that evangelists do in this country, you will find yourself mis- 
taken. You must repeat yourself through thirty or forty people, who 
will do the work among their own people better than you, single- 
handed, possibly can. 



147 

Rev. Frank Gates, nine years in Turkey in Asia, said : — 

There are two classes in the Turkish Empire, Mohammedans and 
nominal Christians, but from our standpoint these two classes are one. 
They differ in creed and agree in practice. A Christless Mohammedan- 
ism and a Christless Christianity both need one redemption. I want 
to say to-day that you may just as surely expect opportunities to sow 
God's seed in the work of teaching, and God's blessing upon that work, 
as in any other. 

Last year a revival wave swept over Turkey. In Mardin we were 
longing for a blessing. Before the week of prayer we arranged subjects 
for the week of prayer. Then we gathered together all our helpers 
and all the Christians we could get, and prayed for a blessing ; and the 
missionaries met at noon and prayed for a blessing. The week passed, 
but the blessing didn't seem to come. We said, " We can't give it up." 
We began to hold meetings in the schoolhouse, and still we prayed, 
and at last the blessing came. The schoolboys came forward one after 
the other and professed Christ. 

God's Spirit uses God's word. Why should you expect God's 
blessing upon His word and preaching, and not expect the Word you 
had sown, looking in the eyes of those young men in the class-room, 
to bring forth the fruit of conversion ? Why should you expect that 
the Word you teach day by day should be fruitless, and the Word you 
preach to a vast multitude should be blessed ? Christ's teaching by 
the wayside was the most fruitful of all his life. In others the Spirit 
worked, but it was educational work to them. One Mohammedan saw 
on the wall a text, " Ye are not your own ; ye are bought with a 
price." He asked what it meant. We told him. He went away 
thinking about it. It was seed sown. Another, a nominal Christian, 
said : " What, Christ alone saved so many men in all the world, and 
no need of the saints ? It can't be " ; and he went away thinking. 
It was seed sown, not harvest gathered. But in those students that 
had been taught the Word day by day it was harvest. The last class 
went out all Christians but four or five. It is these men, with God's 
word sown in their hearts, that must do the work. You must train 
these men, and bring God's Spirit into contact with them. 

Rev. J. P. Jones, twelve years in the Madura Mission, India, 



A word of appeal and of warning. For the last few years of our 
mission we have sent tearful, heartrending pleas for men, and we have 
found very little response. In behalf of the mission I wrote a year 
ago, " Send us eight men to fill vacant places in our mission to-day." 
For three years we have sent for a man to take charge of the high 



148 

school in Madura. For years we have sought for two men at Kossa- 
molo at our normal school and theological department, with 400 young 
men studying there, but we find no response^ Come over and help 
us ; come as soon as you possibly can. Come with the word of God 
dwelling within you, and it will be a rich blessing to us, and I am^ 
sure that through us you will bless that whole field, where we have 
2,000,000 souls dependent upon us. 

A word of warning. Test your consecration before you come. 
Some come before they have tested it. What does it mean ? Am I 
really prepared to go out there and be in the minority ? Can I stand 
with Christ alone among those heathen people? Can I listen with 
patience, can I listen with divine resignation, to the voice of those 
people, despising our religion, blaspheming our Lord, calling us names ? 
Can you, when you leave all these blessed associations, all these in- 
fluences of support and strength and comfort to you, can you stand 
with Christ alone, and feel even in your solitude that you are in your 
right place, full of His Spirit and prepared to make known His name 
to those people ? I know some have had to come home who had not 
tested their consecration before they went. Test it every day. See 
that your life is hid with Christ in God, and standing there you can do 
gratefully, joyfully, the service of Christ among these heathen people. 

Rev. J. P. Graham, a missionary of nineteen years' service in 
Western India, said : — 

It has been assumed and asserted also that the native Christians of 
India are " rice Christians." As a witness, I must say that I have seen 
some that are " rice Christians " ; but, made indiscriminately, this as- 
sertion is a false and a cruel slander. For instance, I have seen a 
native Christian woman, after she had given a tenth of her month's 
earnings to the service of the Lord, come forward, and as a special 
thank-offering give one-fourth of her monthly earnings in addition. I 
remember one occasion when one of our missionaries had lost a little 
child, a native Christian woman offered up the prayer that the parents 
might be able to think of their little child not as lying in the dark 
grave, but as playing around the feet of Jesus in heaven. Such a 
sentiment could only come from the heart of a Christian mother. I 
have seen a native Christian woman go week after week through heat 
and dust and mud and rain, to tell others that they might learn of the 
Saviour ; and she gave up only when her own strength failed and she 
was laid upon the bed of death. And at last when she died, 
she died in the peace and assurance which only those can have who 
are certain that to be absent from the body is to be present witb the 
Lord. I know a young man who was assaulted by his father and ter- 



149 

ribly beaten, because he had become a Christian. And when a com- 
panion who had suffered with him brought suit against the father and 
the father was condemned, the young man came forward and redeemed 
his father by paying the fine which had fallen upon him. I remember 
one of our native Christians who was taunted by his companions that 
his God allowed him to live out under a tree for three or four months, 
" while our God," they said, " gives us houses to dwell in." But he 
remained under the tree, remained comforted and contented by the 
assurance of God's presence with him. The result at last was that 
almost all his family and all his neighbors were brought into the 
Church of Christ through his influence and example. Now, let me 
ask you. Are these men " rice Christians " ? The Spirit of God dwells 
in them as well as in those who have offered themselves to take the 
Gospel to them. 

Rev. M. J. Coldren, ten years a missionary at Orissa, India, said : — • 

I think ten years of experience has brought to me the fact that the 
one thing most important for a missionary is to have positive assurance 
in his soul that he is there at the order of God. I believe the expe- 
riences through which I have passed, had it not been for that one fact, 
would have brought me back home within three years from the time I 
left. That is one of the important things. Be positive, be sure ; ask 
of God some tangible evidence, if need be, upon which you can risk 
your life, country, and everything, and then, amidst all the trials and 
oppositions that may come, you will find that you have a sure refuge. 
There are times when a missionary would doubt whether he was able 
to keep on with the work before him, and he would return to his home, 
if it were not for this assurance in his soul that the Lord really wants 
him. 

After I went to India, I spent six years in Balassua, and then was 
changed to open up a new station. As I came into the new district, 
surrounded by 400,000 heathen with no other missionary except my 
wife in all that boundary, with over 3,000 villages to look after, I 
remember one evening we were talking over the prospect of success. 
In the village where we lived there was not a Christian, and every 
influence was against us, except in a social way ; as far as our religious 
life was concerned, they all desired we might leave the place. As my 
heart was full I walked out and sat under a mango tree in front of the 
house. And as I thought of these things, the clouds became darker 
and darker, and I came to understand then what I had not thought 
before I left. I used to have a kind of idea that missionaries were 
angels, or something like that, but I found that they were men. And 
as darkness gathered I began to feel discouraged. I looked up in the 



150 

agony of my soul and said, " Lord, who is able to stem this mighty 
tide of heathenism until success and victory shall shine forth ? " And 
then the Spirit came to me and said : " If you will live in this village 
for twenty-five years a straightforward, honest life, it will have a grand 
influence upon these boys and girls that are now coming on. And if 
you will add to that, every day, an earnest, honest, consecrated Chris- 
tian effort for the salvation of some poor soul, for twenty-five years, 
that life of yours will shine out in the surrounding darkness like a 
beautiful star in the dark night." And I said : " O Lord, it is enough. 
I will make the effort ; you give the victory." And from that day to 
this never has there been a discouraged hour to me. But I have made 
the effort ; I have pressed forward, and, blessed be His holy name, we 
have a large number of Christians, and a still larger number of children 
in om- Christian schools being educated in this great work. Consecra- 
tion, then, is the essential thing. 

Eev. R. Winsor, twenty years at Sirur, India, said : — 

You have heard of the work that there is to be done. You have 
heard of the impression that we are able to make upon the pagan 
mind. Some may doubt whether it is possible to reach the heart of 
these people, so to impress them, so to imbue them with the idea that 
there is something beyond and outside of this as to make it possible 
for them to receive what we offer them. But go into the zenana and 
read to those women, who for the first time in their life have ever 
heard anything like it, the story of the prodigal son. Speak of the 
young man as he sets out from home, and as he comes to himself in 
the foreign land, and then, finally, as he returns to his father and the 
father comes out to meet him ; and then say that that means God's 
divine love, God's forgiving love for those who come to Him, and there 
is immediately awakened in those people a new idea, and those women 
have been moved to tears, — a thing unusual. Never by their own 
religion are they moved to tears ; and it opens to them something 
beyond what they ever conceived before, — divine love to a lost race. 
That idea of love is not found within the covers of those eighteen pon- 
derous Hindoo Bibles. What do they say ? You at home sing with 
volume and feeling, " Tell me the Old, Old Story " ; but not so with 
these women, not so with these people, — they say : " Tell me the 
new, new story. Tell me again the new story." And so earnest are 
they about it that they will not let the missionary go until she promises 
them that she will return. I want to say to you, fellow students, one 
thing has interested me most intensely as I have looked at you. We 
have been together ; we have had a most delightful season. But the 
cold world will come upon you ; and, remember, we are going into our 



151 

land of Moriah, and God will call our Isaacs. And you may not know 
what your Isaac is ; but we are to bind it to the altar, never to be 
retracted. And if God in some way causes you to bind a sacrifice to 
the altar, He will make some provision by which His own providence 
through you shall be met. 

Rev. John M. Allis, Santiago, Chili, seven years, said : — 

For convenience I have noted down two or three things that may 
be helpful. These are conclusions that I have reached from my own 
observation in regard to missionaries, and I put them in the form of 
counsel. 

1. Cultivate your piety. You have nobody to depend on for that 
work but yourself. 2. Keep informed about home plans of work. 
You will find they will be very suggestive and valuable. 3. Learn 
your own denominational methods. Some people go out without 
knowing them, and often find themselves in a muddle. 4. Master the 
language. Men have failed simply because they have missed at the 
beginning. 5. Be self-reliant. You have nobody but yourself to 
depend upon, humanly speaking. 6. Go out married. And, in con- 
nection with that thought, select somebody suitable for the work ; for 
I have known missionaries fail from that lack. 7. Submit yourselves 
to your brethren, or learn how to do so. 8. Take care of your own 
physical nature. No man should sin against his physical nature and 
think to escape the consequences by prayer. 9. Don't suppose that 
your mission is to change social customs which do not involve im- 
morality. 

Rev. George L. Mason, Huchow, Eastern China, ten years, said : — 

What we need in China - — and I speak of a field of about 400,000 
people, in the city and out, and probably there are a hundred other 
fields of that kind unoccupied in China — what we need more than 
anything else there is preachers. In our section there is opportunity 
for speaking, for making public addresses on moral questions ; and we 
can gather audiences in the evening, week after week, so that there is 
a greater need there for public preaching than for personal work. 
And what we need, more than book-makers or schoolmasters, is the 
man who believes in the Gospel as the great regenerating medium. 
Go out there and preach, brethren ; and you who stay at home and 
hold the ropes, who must deny yourselves, and cannot have this 
privilege of preaching the Gospel among the heathen, what you need 
is to feel, and act as though you felt, that you are the Lord's, and take 
the time to pray for us. Send us some telephonic message by way of 



152 

the throne, and get a blessing in your own hearts. I met an old man 
in New England in my boyhood. He wrote to me after I had gone 
away, " Every day since you have been gone I pray for you." I am 
not sure, but it would seem to me I might have made shipwreck of the 
faith there if there had not been earnest prayer in my behalf. Some- 
times we get so absorbed in the routine part of mission life that we do 
not have the time for the daily, earnest, personal contact with the 
people that is needed. Resolve that you will preach whatever else 
you do ; and you at home, that you will pray for us, whatever else 
you do. 

Mrs. Jennie Fuller, of Akola, India, of fourteen years' experience 
in that field, said : — 

It is not what you do as a volunteer that counts, but what you let 
Christ do for you. I remember that after years of disappointment at 
what I had not done, I said to an old Christian that I was a faUure, 
and he said, " Praise the Lord," because when I became a failure then 
Christ could make something of me. 

Mrs. D. Z. Sheffield, of Tungchow, China, twenty-one years in 
China, said : — 

We have heard of the volunteers over in China, and the question 
came to us. Is this Movement as deep as it is broad ? One could not 
sit in this Convention day after day without knowing that God is here, 
that this is a tide that is advancing and will never end ; and here it is, 
because God's laws have been obeyed. This is an age when mothers 
have been learning the privilege of consecrating their children to the 
Lord. This is the age of women's missions. I wish to emphasize 
these two thoughts. First, you need to learn to live in an atmosphere 
of prayer. Your supply of grace must be from moment to moment. 
The other thought is in regard to soul winning. This is to be your 
life wol-k. You want to be experts ; you ought to do better work than 
we have done who went out twenty- five years ago. You have had 
Christian Endeavor Societies and Young Men's and Young Women's 
Christian Associations to train you. You are going to love those souls 
just as truly as you love the souls of your dear friends in the school- 
room and in the hall. First you will begin to work for them for the 
love of Christ, but it will not be long before you begin to do it for 
them. It makes me homesick to think that some of you are going to 
see China before I do. We would like to have all the 6,000 volun- 
teers in China, but we are not going to be selfish, we are only going 
to claim our third. This waiting time is precious ; make the best 
use of it possible, so that you can take your best selves to your work. 



153 

Rev. F. A. Steven, of the China Inland Mission, seven and a half 
years in China and Upper Burmah, said : — 

Not pity for the perishing so much as obedience to Christ should 
be our motive in going to the heathen. Christ has said, "Go ye into 
all the world, and preach the Gospel to every creature." The Gospel 
was prepared and issued for the whole race, — not for Anglo-Saxons 
and Jews alone, but for the whole human race. It is like a letter bear- 
ing a superscription that is handed to us for delivery ; and it is in that 
attitude that Paul recognized himself as standing when he said : " I am 
debtor both to the Greeks and to the barbarians, both to the wise and 
to the unwise. So, as much as in me is, I am ready to preach the 
Gospel." The postman is dishonest, is defrauding the government, is 
defrauding the individual to whom the letter is addressed, if he keeps it 
back. Let us be faithful messengers in delivering our message. 

The command is to all ; it came to that little Church on the moun- 
tain top as the representative of the Church of all ages. That is the 
general command, - — I speak now to others besides volunteers, — that 
general command embraces you, if you love the Lord Jesus, old and 
young, and you cannot get out from under the binding force of that 
general coramand unless you have a specific command to you as an 
individual from the Lord to stay at home. Are you quite sure that you 
have got it? Are you quite sure that you are needed at home more 
than yonder ? that you have a word fi-om the Lord to stop at home ? 
Are you quite sure that you are unfit to go, that you are too old to go ? 
Are you quite sure that you have exemption from the general com- 
mand? God is light; Christ is the Light of the world. To His disci- 
ples He said : " Ye are lights in the world." " As my Father hath 
sent me into the world, even so have I sent you into the world." The 
Light of the world came to shine forth the light. The lights in the 
world are sent to shine forth the Light of the world. Where should 
the light shine ? In the darkness, surely. Where is your light shining 
to-day, my brother, my sister ? Is it shining where it is doing most for 
God's glory? If not, will you not seek and covet as a grand prize 
from God the permission to be placed where your light will do most to 
dispel the darkness ? If you covet after this fashion you will get the 
missionary blessing, even if He ultimately says to you, " Stop at home 
and be content." 



154 

Rev. W. R. Lambeth, M.D., of Kobe, Japan, nine years in China, 
five years in Japan, and son of a missionary father and mother, 
said : — 

Three different nuggets in three different forms : 

First, a missionary needs grace, grit, and gumption. Gumption to 
take care of himself, to keep out of others' way ; grit to stay upon the 
mission field for life ; gi;ace to love poor human souls, though darkly 
visaged, — however evil the eye or vicious the mouth, to see there a 
soul upon which is the impress of Almighty God his Father. 

Again, this nugget: "Apart from me ye can do nothing." It 
teaches us humility ; it is no use to go to the field without that. 
Another part of it : -' I can do all things through Christ who strength- 
eneth me." Still another part is this : " This is my commandment, that 
ye love one another, as I have loved you." Let the bond between the 
humility upon the one hand and the ability upon the other to do all 
things for Christ, be that of love, and that love for others, even as 
Jesus has loved us. 

The third is this : " Opportunity and importunity " — importunity 
for enduement of power. We cannot save the lost or lead souls to the 
Master without the power of the Holy Spirit working through us and 
constraining human souls. Let us seize every opportunity to give the 
Lord Jesus Christ to dying souls. 

Rev. Mr. Hayes, seven years in Soochow, China : — 

This meeting has reminded me so many times of that meeting held 
on the other side of the globe last May. 430 missionaries met 
together and prayed for an increase of the force. They sent out an 
appeal for 1,000 missionaries in the next five years. I see the answer 
to the prayer of our Saviour. I see an answer in the faces before me 
to the appeal from the missionaries there. Volunteers always make 
the best soldiers. Christ loves a cheerful giver ; he loves cheerful ser- 
vice. Two things I wish to bring before you : One is, that while you 
look forward to the great work before you, don't forget this little 
phrase, " Whether, therefore, ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do 
all to the glory of God." The second, I wish each one of these 
volunteers would try to lay hold on his or her individual church ; get 
your support from your church if you can, or get as much of it as you 
can. Let each man or woman of you interest some church, or as many 
individuals, in yourselves personally, as you possibly can. 

Miss Meta Howard, M.D., two years in Seoul, Corea, said :• — 

We want in Corea, first of all, educated missionaries to translate 
the Bible. We have only one book of the Bible fully translated. We 



155 

want some one to help us write a dictionary, so that every missionary 
who comes there may not have to begin at the beginning. We want 
some one to translate some religious books. We want some one, above 
all, who is apt in learning the language and preparing books for these 
translations ; and no one can be so apt as one who has been disciplined 
by college and especially by the study of several languages before he 
goes there. 

We want men, and the field is open before them. There is not a 
door in Corea closed to a missionary, and though the inner doors are 
closed to men, they are open to women. So, really, more doors are 
opened to the women than to the men, because they are all opened to 
the women. I never went to a house to treat a woman but first I was 
invited to visit the men's apartments and visit with all the relatives 
they might collect ; and so I had more opportunities to do evangelistic 
work than any other missionary in the country. 

We want women. We have girls' schools, and we have had won- 
derful success in this line. The girls come to us by the hundreds that 
we cannot take in ; and one wonderful success is that in five short 
years of work we have been able to graduate one girl from our school 
who has married an official, and yet can go out on the street and 
preach the Gospel from house to house. Not another Corean woman 
who is a real wife, and especially whose husband is in an oflBcial posi- 
tion, can do such a thing as that. 

Rev. Henry Forman, of India, six years engaged in theological 
seminary work, said : — 

The kingdoms of heathenism are the kingdoms of Satan, and it is 
wickedness in high place and low place you go to reach, and not simply 
to correct mistaken ideas. If you go you must work among such sur- 
roundings. You must be healthy, — above all, healthy in mind and 
spirit. But in order to be healthy, you must observe God's laws for 
body, mind, and spirit. 

Here rises the great question of cheap missions. I urge upon your 
earnest thought this side of the truth, of which heretofore some have 
been losing sight. God has created you, your good and lawful appe- 
tites as well as your capacities for work. A home, a happy, elevating 
home, is one of God's best gifts, to comfort, to cheer, to lift up when 
disheartened, to lighten when oppressed. It is our Father's own pro- 
vision. Disregarding this provision, some have made shipwreck. A 
comfortable Christian home does not decrease your influence in India ; 
I earnestly urge that it increases it. Right provision for wife and chil- 
dren is God's will ; to fail in this is to deny the faith. I have seen sad 
examples of this in conscientious, earnest men and women, who have 



156 

darkened their own lives and the lives of those who called them father 
and mother. 

Some of you think of the cheaper method of missions as the high- 
est type of mission work. Let me refer to my brother, who is known 
and loved, by many among you. He earnestly tried this, with a view 
of starting such a mission in India. His conclusion was that he for- 
feited the respect of the natives, decreased his influence, and injured 
his work thereby. Yet I recognize that men's gifts differ; only, 1 
urge, let not one man put a burden on another because he himself does 
not feel it to be a burden. I know a lady who can go into a Hindoo's 
home and enjoy the food, while most ladies would be made sick by it. 
The difference is not in their piety ; it is in their stomachs. A manner 
of life may be easy for one that would be very, very hard for another. 
Choose that manner of life in which you can be healthy and at your , 
best. Your lives are too precious to be hampered for the purpose of 
saving a little money which church members here could easily supply 
by spending less of their millions for tobacco and kid gloves. 

Rev. Geo. A. Wilder, of Natal, South Africa, said: — 
I must admit that when I was out in Africa and heard that 5,000 
young men and women had volunteered for the foreign missionary 
work, I was astounded, — I was hardly capable of realizing it ; I thought 
a wave of missionary sentiment had passed over the United States. 
But since I have been in your midst I have learned, and now believe 
thoroughly, that this Movement has a level head and a warm heart, and 
is a truly spiritual movement. 

In the number of qualifications that have been enumerated here, 
one has been left out, and that is missionary heroism. I believe that 
each one of you is filled with this spirit. I believe that before me is 
a body of young men and women who are heroes, and they are the 
stuff of which heroes are made. I believe that there are to be de- 
veloped here Livingstones and great men of whom we shall hear — 
great because they have the Holy Spiiit of God in their lives which 
are there shining in the darkness of heathenism. In South Africa, 
as I light the lamp in the evening, various animals and insects come 
around — moths, beetles, and occasionally a bat, and on one occasion a 
serpent. So I say to you who are going out to the continents that are 
in darkness, go there with the light of the Spirit of God in your heai-ts, 
and let that Holy Spirit burn and burn brightly, and burn hotly too, 
and there Avill come from the votaries of the rites of Asia, from the 
serpent worshippers of Africa, those that will come to the light they 
see in you. And you, in the name of Him who died for you, will be 
able to command the winds and the waves and the devils, and they 
will obey you. 



157 

Mr. C. J. Lafflin, three years on the Congo, Africa, said : — 

In Africa we want at once some well-trained workers. We want 
all kinds and conditions of workers there, but especially do we want 
well-trained, strong, healthy men. Sickly people are not wanted there : 
in every case they are practically useless, and often worse than useless. 
But whether we go to Africa or to China, I believe the main thing for 
us to know is, where would Jesus have us be. I think I am the young- 
est missionary of this company, but I say this, that what I have done I 
have done through God out there. I feel that when I am working 
there I am upheld by Him daily ; and if I had not a firm conviction 
that I am called of Him to go there, I would certainly never return. 
I advise nobody to go there unless they are positively sure that God 
has called them to the work. Make sure that you are where God 
would have you be, and make Him first in everything. 

Miss Ella J. Newton, twelve years in Foochow, China, said : — 

The memory of this Convention will be very precious to us foreign 
missionaries when we go back to our work, for we shall feel and realize 
that the young people of the Church of Christ have taken up this work 
of the evangelization of the world, and what these young people take 
up will be done. I want to leave just one thought with you, dear 
friends. The inspiration of these meetings will largely fade away. 
The romance of missionary life will not last very long. But the love 
of Christ filling our hearts will help you and me, will help us all, to 
stand alone with God in the dark as well as in the light, when every- 
thing seems to go wrong and we are discouraged on every side, will 
help us all through the days to come, until victory crowns our work. 
I am glad God let me go to China ; I am glad for the hope that I may 
spend the rest of my life there ; and I promise a hearty welcome and 
all the work you can do to every one of you who will join us there. 

Mrs. J. N". Cushing, Rangoon, Burmah, said : — 

Just one word to those who are in a hurry to go quickly to their 
field of work. Remember that if you are to evangelize the world in 
this generation, there are a great many unlearned, unwritten languages 
for you to dig out. You must have the ability to dig out the language, 
construct an alphabet, translate the Bible, make a dictionary, do all the 
preparatory work, before your brothers with less preparation can come 
and be evangelists in that language. Be patient, therefore, and pre- 
pare yourself thoroughly. Spend as long as the Lord will have you 
in perfecting your education before you start. 



158 

Dr. Nevius, of China, American Chairman of the famous Shanghai 
Conference, said : — 

There have been so many refercences made to this Shanghai Con- 
ference that it is hardly necessary for me to speak of it much in detail. 
The appeal has been made to you on paper, and formal action was 
taken in that conference before it adjourned, requesting those connected 
with it who were going home to England, to Germany, to America, to 
appeal in person on behalf of that conference, and by word of mouth 
to bring home this appeal to you. And this seems a very fitting pres- 
ence, before those who have specially given themselves to the work of 
Christ in foreign lands, to present this appeal formally. 

I wiU say just a word about that conference. As you have heard 
before, it was made up of over 400 missionaries, about one-third in the 
Chinese Empire, representing most of the denominations in Protestant 
Christendom. It was the second Protestant conference held in China, 
the first being held in 1877. Its session covered on the programme ten 
days, but the business required that the time should be extended to 
twelve days. The addresses were limited, those who opened subjects 
to ten minutes and the others to five and three minutes. It was fuU 
of business ; it was full of results. It was a grand conference : but 
above all it was full of the evidence of God's presence. I can say, 
truly, that I never felt the communion of saints to such an extent as at 
that conference. There were veteran workers, considerably older, 
several of them, than myself, who had been nearly fifty years in China, 
a few survivors of that company that first entered the eighteen prov- 
inces nearly fifty years ago. A great many results were reached, to 
which I will not refer, excepting simply to say that we determined to 
have one common version of the Bible in not only the classical lan- 
guage of China, which covers all China, Japan, and other surrounding 
nations, but in the different dialects of China. > 

But this one conclusion to which we came, and in which you are 
specially interested, with reference to the appeal, was one arrived at 
with a great deal of solemnity and prayer. I shall never forget the mo- 
ment when the vote was taken on that subject. I think it was a rising 
vote. It was deliberate, prayerful, solemn. It was said last night that 
it was a modest appeal. I feel that it was a modest appeal. It was 
the minimum — 1,000. What shall we do with 1,000? We shall then 
have only one missionary to 200,000, or a married man, a minister 
and his wife, to 400,000 of the population of China. We will only 
be able to establish a central mission in 200 out of 1,700 walled 
cities of China. Suppose our additional thousand, with the thou- 
sand already on the field, to be so distributed among the provincial 
capitals and the Foo cities of China — eighteen provincial capitals 



159 

and one hundred and eight Foo cities. Suppose we have in each 
of these three ordained missionaries with their wives, one medical 
missionary and his wife, and two single missionaries. Allow me 
to say here, I believe in single missionaries. Leave it with God. 
Don't lay the burden on any one whether they should be married 
or unmarried : we want both kinds. Settle it according to your 
circumstances and God's guidance. Suppose, then, that we have 
three ordained missionaries, one medical missionary and his wife, and 
two single missionaries in each of these different centers. In each 
center they would have a resident population in the city where they 
reside of from 50,000 to 1,000,000. Under the jurisdiction of that 
city they would have nine walled cities of the third class, containing 
populations varying from 50,000 to 300,000 or 400,000. Each one 
of those nine walled cities of the third class would have connected 
with it perhaps a score of market towns with populations varying from 
say 3,000 to 20,000, and each one of those market towns would have 
connected with it villages and hamlets containing populations of from 
a few hundred to several thousand. This 1,000 is for male missiona- 
ries of the highest kind of qualifications and different grades of quali- 
fications. We want, however, as many lady missionaries besides. 

Rev. J. T. Gracey, president of the International Missionary Union, 
said : — 

I come to bring you, in these few minutes, the greetings of the 
International Missionary Union, and to thank you for sending us a 
delegate at our last annual meeting. In the providence of God we have 
established an annual meeting of all the missionaries of the United 
States and Canada whom we can reach, in a sort of world's missionary 
conference. We want the address of every missionary of whom you 
know, whether recently at home or many years at home. We have the 
post-ofiice address of about 500 returned missionaries, and that 500 mis- 
sionaries ought to stir this continent. You have had a little sample of 
what an International Missionary Union meeting is for a week. I come 
to ask you to send us other delegates this coming year. Come down 
and spend a week with seventy-five or a hundred returned missiona- 
ries, discussing and presenting the various sides of the problems 
which interest them and interest you. 

I have been very glad to be with you. And I am glad of one 
thing — that you are international as well as inter-denominational. 
There is one thing I want to say that I don't think has been sufficiently 
emphasized by the Protestant Church of the United States. I don't 
think you have qviite realized the high, thorough, and perpetual pro- 
tection which the British flag gives to missionaries whenever they need 



160 

it. I am an American of the Americans, and not a Britisher, as you 
might suspect ; but I know scores of times when I would have been 
torn into a thousand pieces, so to speak, but for the force of the British 
flag. And the whole American missionary force has the full protec- 
tion of the British flag accorded to it that it affords to its own people. 
So I am glad you are international. The fact is, in this missionary 
work you cannot be national. 

Now just one thing that is a nugget. If you do not remember any- 
thing else that has been said here, you had better remember this. The 
Revised Version of the Old Testament, reads, Isaiah 64 : " God work- 
eth for him that waiteth for him." It will take you a good whUe to 
understand that. "God worketh for him that waiteth for him." I 
waited ten years under the deepest and profoundest conviction, that 
stirred my soul to its depths every day, before I dared open my mouth 
about going into the foreign missionary work. Collins, the founder of 
our China mission, wanted to go, but he hadn't any money. Finally 
he wi-ote to Bishop Gaines : " I must go to China. Engage me a pas- 
sage before the mast. My own strong arm can send me there and 
sustain me when there." But the Board sent him. Don't be afraid 
to wait ; God works. 

Don't be a pessimist ever. It would not seem as if that was neces- 
sary here in this presence with this motto [indicating the motto of the 
Convention]. Don't be discouraged. The oldest missionaries are 
those of the largest hopefulness. I went ashore once on the island of 
St. Helena, and as I went up I heard music. After a while I found it 
was music that came from three half-castes of some sort sitting at a 
fruit stand under an umbrella. It was sweet, low music, a chant ; and 
when I got nearer I found they were chanting the grand old doxology 
of the English Church : " Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and 
to the Holy Ghost. As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall 
be, world without end. Amen ; " and the sweet, low music of it blended 
with the low music of the sea waves as they splashed over the shore. 
And as I stood on that island, 1,700 miles away from any continent, I 
stamped my foot and I said, " That is it." The islands of the sea 
have caught the sound, and it shall sweep upon every part of the 
breeze, until, wherever ships and carriages reach, wherever the sky 
covers and the earth sustains, wherever there is sunshine and rain, 
wherever there is blood and flesh, there will be none who do not say, 
" Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost. As 
it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world Avithout end. 
Amen." And let all the people say " Amen." 



161 

Evening Session. 
The first address of the evening was given by Robert P. Wilder on — 

The Perils and Privileges of the Student Volunteer 

Movement. 

In the fall of 1883, Messrs. Van Kirk and Langdon, of the Senior 
class, and myself, of the Junior class, were sent by the Philadelphian 
Society of Princeton College as delegates to the Inter- Seminary Mis- 
sionary Alliance Convention, held that year at Hartford, Conn. At 
this convention the thought came to Mr. Van Kirk that there should 
be, as he expressed it, " an organization of those who had definitely 
decided that it was their duty to go to the foreign field, in order that 
they might encourage and enlighten one another, and do more effective 
and aggressive work in behalf of the cause." Upon our return from 
Hartford, we three met and considered the formation of a mission band 
in Princeton College, to which should belong men pledged for foreign 
service. 

My father counselled and encouraged us in this effort. In conver- 
sation with him I learned of a similar society at Andover Seminary, of 
which he was a member. It was a secret organization — secret, doubt- 
less, because public sentiment was then hostile to foreign missions. 
Father informed me that " The Brethren " society of Andover Semi- 
nary, to which he belonged, was organized at WilUams College about 
1808, probably at the place where the famous "Haystack Meeting" 
was held. When Samuel J. Mills, James Richards, and other founders 
of this society, left Williams College, they carried the documents of the 
society with them to Andover. In the constitution are found the 
words : " No person shall be admitted who is under any engagement 
of any kind which shall be incompatible with going on a mission to the 
heathen." " Each member shall hold himself in readiness to go on a 
mission when and where duty may call." These words suggested to 
my father a pledge for a similar society, which we contemplated orga- 
nizing at Princeton. Five of us met in the front parlor of my house 
and appointed Messrs. R. W. Van Kirk and John N. Forman a com- 
mitteee of two to draft a constitution for the Princeton Foreign Mis- 
sionary Society. This committee was heartily in favor of the pledge 
suggested, and embodied this pledge in the constitution, the second 
article of which read as follows : " Any student of the college who is a 
professing Christian may become a member by subscribing to the fol- 
lowing covenant. ' We, the undersigned, declare ourselves willing 
and desirous, God permitting, to go to the unevangelized portions of 
the world.' " " The object of this society," according to the constitu- 



162 

tion, " shall be the cultivation of a missionary spirit among the students 
of the college, the information of its members in all subjects of mis- 
sionary interest, and especially the leading of men to consecrate them- 
selves to foreign mission work." Mr. R. W. Van Kirk was chosen 
president of the society, and I was elected to the office of secretary. 

The meetings were held at my house at least once in three weeks. 
I can remember, as if it were but yesterday, the fellows sitting in a 
semi-circle, facing the folding doors upon which was extended the map 
of the world. I can see father's earnest face kindle as he tells us of 
Mackay's work in Formosa, or gives the latest news from the Dark 
Continent. I can still hear his urgent appeal to those of us who are 
pledged and to the few who had not yet signed the covenant. He 
would point to his thirty years' experience as a foreign missionary, and 
press home the Scriptural argument for missions, the need for workers, 
and the privilege of personally entering the service. From his talks 
Forman and I secured many of the arguments which we used later in 
our intercollegiate work. After his appeals, the old missionary would 
withdraw, and we would kneel in prayer. In an adjoining room, 
unknown to any but myself, there was another praying. When the 
service was finished, we two would slip oif together and talk it all 
over. God alone knows how much those meetings in our parlor owed 
their success to my sister's prayers. 

Most of the sessions were conducted by us students. Some of these 
meetings were intensely interesting. I remember that at one service 
one of our members said, " Woe is me if I preach not the Gospel to the 
heathen." As soon as he finished, Forman jimiped to his feet with the 
words : " I know why Curtis feels so. Over his bed hangs a chart 
with the black squares representing 856,000,000 of heathen. Any 
man sleeping with such a chart at the head of his bed must decide to 
be a foreign missionary or have a nightmare every night." Fred. Cur- 
tis is now in Japan, two of our members in China, one in Bulgaria, 
two went to Syria, two in Siam, one in India, one headed for Africa. 
You ask what led these men to decide ? Largely personal work. 

The first recruit whom God gave me writes from Peking, China, as 
follows : " It was only when, in my walks and talks with you, I found 
that you would agree with me in holding that, when carried to its 
logical extreme, it was the duty of every Christian to be a foreign 
missionary, if God permitted, that I could rest in the conviction that 
I was bound to go. I was then quite in the dark as to my future ; but 
I think I remember one walk toward the southwest with you when I 
was persuaded to make that statement and form one of the band. I 
signed about January, 1884, two and one-half years before the famous 
Mt. Hermon meeting was held," 



163 

This society at Princeton, though a college organization at its in- 
ception, was thrown open to divinity men also. Many of our members 
belonged to the Theological Seminary. Through the fall of 1885 and 
spring of 1886 my sister and I met, night after night, to pray for a 
widespread missionary movement through the country, asking God to 
give us the privilege of helping in such a missionary revival. Not 
even our parents knew the- burden resting on our hearts. When an 
invitation came to address a convention at New Brunswick that seemed 
one answer to our prayers. At last Mr. Wishard came to Princeton, 
and urged the claims of the Mt. Hermon Summer School. As a result 
of his appeal, I abandoned plans to teach during the summer, and 
started for Mt. Hermon. Before leaving Princeton, well do I remem- 
ber my sister's saying, "I shall pray for a great missionary revival 
among the college students where you are going." Her prayers were 
answered. 100 men at Mt. Hermon turned their faces toward foreign 
fields. Then Tewkesbury, of Harvard, suggested a tour through the 
colleges and seminaries. Three of the four men selected for this work 
were unable to go. I felt the need of a companion, and thought at 
once of Forman, who was one of the founders of the foreign mission- 
ary society at Princeton. "We started in October, 1886. God con- 
descended to bless the work done then by Forman and myself, and 
subsequently by Speer, Cossum, and Miss Guinness, until there are 
now 6,000 volunteers enrolled, of which number 350 have sailed. 

I have dealt thus at length with the organization of this band, for 
three reasons : 

1. It furnished the pledge of the Student Volunteer Movement. 
The covenant that the 6,000 volunteers have signed is almost identical 
with that found in the constitution of the Princeton College Foreign 
Missionary Society. 

2. From this society went out the two men, J. N. Forman and 
myself, who inaugurated the Student Volunteer Movement for Foreign 
Missions among the colleges. 

3. This society furnished us the idea of organizing volunteers into 
bands in the colleges and seminaries, and suggested methods of con- 
ducting band meetings. 

So much for the origin of our beloved Movement. It is another 
monument to answered prayer. The little beginning at Princeton has 
assumed intercollegiate and international proportions. 

But what shall the future bring this organization ? is the question 
you ask. The same comes to me as I am about to leave this Move- 
ment, with which I have been officially connected since its inceptini. 
Shall it die as did the Andover society ? What are the flaws in it ? 
What the weak points? For three days we have been turning our 



164 

batteries upon it too see whether it can stand the fire. Secretaries of 
the leading missionary societies and returned missionaries have helped 
us in this work of friendly, but frank and forcible, criticism. If a 
more effective movement could be started, your speaker would be the 
first to help it. The speedy evangelization of the world was the 
crowning motive leading us to begin the Student Volunteer Movement. 
We have given time and strength to it. Thus far it has seemed to be 
the best organization for this purpose. But if a better one is found, 
we shall throw this one overboard. True love is not blind to faults. 
Faults there are in the Movement. What are they ? They are not in 
the organization. That seems to be nearly perfect. By uniting our 
Movement with the three leading student organizations — the College 
Young Men's Christian Association, the College Young Women's 
Christian Association, and the Inter-Seminary Missionary Alliance — 
we have given it permanency and patronage and a limitless field in 
which to expand. Through its advisory committee we have given the 
Movement the counsel, co-operation, and confidence of older and wiser 
missionary workers. No one, so far as known to me, has criticized 
adversely our organization. 

What then are the perils? They are not from vnthout. To be 
sure there is not money enough in the treasuries of our Boards to send 
us forth. The A. B. C. F. M. has ordered a retrenchment of ten per 
cent, in Japan. Neither it nor any of om- missionary societies feel able 
to send forth a large number of volunteers. 

1. Here is our first peril. Shall we yield to this adverse gale? 
Some say : " Yes. We have given our lives to the work. The 
churches should give at least their money." This is true. The wealth 
of American Christians is estimated at 111,000,000,000. 

But because churches are disobeying Christ's last command, is it 
any reason why we should ? Should the heathen be allowed to perish 
because our church members purchase flowers to adorn earthly temples, 
when the money is needed to win souls for the heavenly temple ? The 
Protestants of New York City give in a single year 1100,000 to floral 
decorations, while their work suffers retrenchment. But these Chris- 
tians are answerable to their Master. We must not plead their sin as 
an excuse for ours. Students in one of the leading theological sem- 
inaries said to me : " It will do no good for us to apply for foreign 
service. Two of our best men applied, and were rejected for lack of 
funds. They were far superior to us." To such I answer. Do the 
Boards say, " Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to the 
whole creation " ? If so, then the Boards' dictum should settle matters. 
But it is Christ who commands this world-wide campaign. A Christ- 
sent man no empty Board treasury can stop. Dr. Herrick Johnson 



165 

well expressed it when he said, " Young man, if the Board is in your 
way, bore a hole through the Board." 

But, you answer, if the Board refuses me is that not a call of God 
for me to remain at home ? That depends upon the cause of their 
refusal. If you are refused because of ill health, mental or spiritual 
incompetency, the probability is that you are unfit for foreign work. 
But even here the Boards are fallible. One of the best foreign mis- 
sionaries was rejected by three Boards. Yet he went abroad, and God 
used him. But almost invariably the missionary societies are wise and 
just in handling such cases. 

If the Board rejects you because of lack of funds, do not interpret 
this as a call of God to stay at home. You say. How can I be sent ? 
First, pray to Him whose is the silver and the gold. Then go to your 
home church where you are known and loved, tell the pastor and 
people of your purpose, and doubtless they will raise your salary. 
The churches are ready and willing to give if appealed to by young 
men whose lives are consecrated to the work. We heard yesterday 
from a volunteer who raised $5,000 in six weeks. There is plenty of 
money in the churches. But the average church member does not 
know of the needs abroad nor of our purpose to go. Let us come to 
the churches having as our theme the highwayman's motto, " Your 
money or your life," saying the needs are so great, the command so 
urgent, we have given our lives — will you not give your money ? I 
am glad, for two reasons, that our Boards lack funds. First, so that 
the faint-hearted and backboneless volunteers may be weeded out. If 
such a small obstacle as lack of money paralyzes a man, how will 
greater obstacles on the field affect him ? Second, so that we may be 
compelled to address the churches and give them facts and fire. 
Think what it will mean if scores of volunteers make a thorough 
canvass of the churches informing them upon foreign fields and pre- 
vailing upon each church to support at least one volunteer. Of course, 
in such cases the volunteers should be sent out under the various 
denominational Boards, and their support should pass through the 
Boards. The coast is clear for us to do this church work. The lead- 
ing missionary societies favor the plan and will further us in our efforts. 
So this lack of money is our extremity if we are weak-kneed, but our 
opportunity if we are strong in the Lord and true to our pledge. 

2. The second peril is from friends. Some wiseacre will come to 
a volunteer and say : " You are too good a man for foreign work. The 
home field needs men of piety and brains like yourself." A student 
told me that before he entered college it was his purpose to become a 
foreign missionary. While in college his professors said to him that 
he was too good for such service. Continual dropping told. Finally 



166 

he was flattered into feeling that his rare ability was too precious to be 
wasted on the heathen. After leaving his flattering friends at college 
and entering a divinity school, he began to recover from the malady 
and joined the Volunteer Movement. He saw that his brain was not 
unusually massive, and that even if he possessed great talents the 
foreign field could utilize all his ability. 

A professor in a leading divinity school told a senior that he was 
too able a man for foreign service. What do such professors mean ? 
Shall we send inferior men to grapple with Neo-Buddhism and infidel- 
ity in Japan ? Are any too brilliant to deal with the subtilities of Hin- 
dooism or the modern philosophic-religious cults in India ? If any man 
before me holds this view, a month's contact with the Somajists or 
theosophists in India will knock out his conceit. Yes, even the most 
degraded in Africa need the best. The most ignorant need as teachers 
the clearest thinkers. England's ablest scholars. Bishops Patteson and 
Selwyn, found their talents taxed to the utmost in their work for Poly- 
nesian savages. Our Saviour did not hesitate to preach a matchless 
sermon to the fallen women of Samaria. One well says, " It would be 
a sad day for American Christians if they should ever deserve Nehe- 
miah's reproach, ' Their nobles put not their necks to the work of their 
Lord.' " 

Friends occasionally take a different tack. They magnify diflicul- 
ties of language and dangers of climate. They counsel caution and 
urge our unfitness for foreign work. They argue thus : All cannot be 
sent since there are 6,000 volunteers. Let those better qualified go. 
I deny the premise. The church can send more than 6,000. If 
American Christians give one per cent, of their income there will be 
money enough to send 20,000. 6,000 would hardly suflice for Africa 
alone. They would be a mere handful among the 200,000,000 who 
people the Dark Continent. Can we not, should we not, send 20,000 
volunteers abroad during this generation ? Is it too much to ask of 
the 12,000,000 communicants at home? But friends say you are unfit 
to be one of this number. They may be right. Pray over the matter 
unselfishly. Find out your unfitness and overcome it. If it be intel- 
lectual unfitness, study and discipline your mind. If it be physical, 
endeavor by careful diet and daily exercise to overcome this obstacle. 
If after careful training you are still unfit, you can work at home with 
the satisfaction of having done your best to go. If the defect is a 
spiritual one, then halt. Move not a step until this unfitness be re- 
moved. By prayer, study of the Word, and practice in soul winning, 
this defect can be overcome. Before applying again to the Board, 
however, try to test your spiritual gifts. It is better to burst the gun 
at Birmingham than on the Afghan frontier. Several of our ablest 



167 

missionaries were regarded by friends as unfit for foreign service. Do 
not let the question be decided by a " What say your friends ? " but by 
a » What saith the Lord? " 

The most serious peril under this head is that presented by home 
ties. The winds of j opposition from father and mother have changed 
the course of many a man who has weathered other gales of fierce 
opposition. You say, Ai-e we not told, " children obey your parents " ? 
Yes, but complete the verse ; it reads, " obey your parents in the 
Lord." Are we obeying them in the Lord if they interfere with our 
doing the Lord's work? How did Christ deal with this subject? 
(Matt. 10 : 35-38 ; Matt. 12 : 46-50.) Was Asa a disobedient son ? 
He removed his mother from being queen because she had made an 
idol in a grove. He put God and His cause first, his mother second. 
Can we allow a mother to be queen in our hearts if she interferes with 
duty to Christ ? When Christ called James and John they did not 
argue about filial duty. " They immediately left the ship and their 
father and followed Him." Rev. Edward Judson writes of his father : 
" The Rev. Dr. GrifBn had proposed him as his colleague in the largest 
church in Boston. ' And you will be so near home,' his mother said. 
' No,' was his reply, ' I shall never live in Boston. I have much 
farther than that to go.' The ambitious hopes of his father were over- 
thrown, and his mother and sister shed many regretful tears." If God 
says " go," no home tie is strong ^enough to be valid. Should I not 
consult with my parents? (Gal. 1: 15-17). Let God, not your 
parents, settle this question. You should pray for them and give them 
the facts. If consecrated they will in time feel the force of Christ's 
command as do you, and will bid you " God speed " in the work. But 
what if parents are financially dependent upon me? If you are an 
only child and the support of an aged father or mother rests upon you, 
then you may be exempt. But if there are other children in the 
family, you are under no more obligation than they to support parents 
— yes, not so much. 

There is a question more diiWcult than this to decide. It presents 
a serious problem. Many of our volunteers have faced it, and some 
have fallen before it. It is a delicate subject, but in dealing with our 
perils I must deal with this. If the first commandment means any- 
thing it means that God and His service must be dearer to us than the 
dearest earthly tie. So firm was William Carey on this point that 
when his wife refused to accompany him the answer came, " Go I must 
or guilt will rest upon my soul." Many sad complications would be 
avoided did volunteers live up to their pledge. One said to me not 
long since that his fiancee refused to accompany him. With my whole 
Boul do I pity that man ; but the fault is largely his own. Had he. 



168 

from the first, made it evident to her and her friends that it was his 
unflinching purpose to go, he would have avoided this complication. 
The out and out volunteers run but little risk in this direction. Dr. 
Judson wrote as follows to his fiancee : " May this be the year in 
which you will take final leave of your relatives and native land, in 
which you will cross the wide ocean and dwell on the other side of the 
world among a heathen people. We shall no more see our kind friends 
around us or enjoy conveniences of civilized life, or go to the house of 
God with those that keep holy day; but swarthy countenances will 
everywhere meet our eye, the jai-gon of an unknown tongue will assail 
our ears. We shall see many dreary, disconsolate hours, and feel a 
sinking of spirits, anguish of mind, of which |now we can form little 
conception. O, we shall wish to lie down and die ! And that time 
may soon come. One of us may be unable to sustain the heat of the 
climate and the change of habits. In view of such scenes shall we not 
pray with earnestness, ' O, for an overcoming faith ? ' " Strong lan- 
guage, you say. Yes ; but it required a strong woman to do the work. 
If strong, his words would not daunt her. If weak, she had better be 
daunted. Write such a letter to your fiancee. If she be thoroughly 
consecrated, it will nerve her to new consecration. If she is unwilling 
to go find out the fact as soon as possible, leave her, and thank God 
for your escape from a union which would defeat His plans. 

One volunteer hesitated to go because his mother-in-law opposed it. 
Imagine a man in the United States Army telling his oflicer that he 
could not go to a western army post because his mother-in-law ob- 
jected ! Oh ! for men like Zrnzendorf, who will say, " I know of only 
one passion, and that is He." 

3. The third peril is self. This explains why so many volunteers 
cool oft'. The lack of money in the Boai-ds, pressure of friends and 
relatives, are perils ; but the chief perils are in the volunteer's heart. 
At some meeting the missionary fire was kindled and he signed the 
pledge. If the fire is not kept up the fault is his own. You say that 
he decided under excitement. That makes no difference. Excitement 
is often a God-send. Hear Dr. Judson's statement upon this subject : 
" My views were very incorrect and my feelings extravagant ; but yet 
I have always felt thankful to God for bringing me into that state of 
excitement which was perhaps necessary in the first instance to enable 
me to break the strong attachment I felt to home and country. . . . 
That excitement soon passed away, but it left a strong desire to prose- 
cute my inquiries." Whether " excitement " is followed by such a 
" strong desire " depends upon yourself. Do not say that God allowed 
the flame to wane. Have you fed the fire ? Information is the fuel. 
Jf the fire has died for lack of fuel the fault is your own, since there 



169 

is an abundance of missionary literature at your hand. But throwing 
on fuel is not enough. Look well to the draft. Knock out the clinkers 
of self which clog up and deaden the fire of consecration. 

Unless careful men, our professional courses of study will chill us. 
Those who are familiar with medical students know that many of them 
are callous. This cannot be if the heart is warm. Even theological 
men will bear me out when I say, that the business-like scrutiny of the 
Word, examining it with the microscope of textual criticism, is a chill- 
ing operation unless we constantly approach the study with bowed 
heads and scan the sacred pages reverently. Here is your peril. Let 
not the fire of consecration cool under your professional studies. He 
that holdeth the seven stars in His hand, who walketh in the midst of 
the seven golden candlesticks, commends many things in the Ephesian 
church — its labor, its patience, its abhorrence of evil. Why then does 
He threaten to remove its candlestick ? Because the church had left 
its first love. Why ? The calls are more urgent now than when they 
volunteered. Witness the ringing appeal from the Shanghai Confer- 
ence for 1,000 men. WTiy has the first love lessened? Is it because 
our love for Christ has lessened ? He says, " If ye love me, keep my 
commandments." If His last command means less to us now than 
when we first volunteered, it is because we love Him less. " Lovest 
thou me? . . . feed my sheep." If we are less anxious to feed the 
sheep wandering through aU the mountains of the world, it is because 
we love the Shepherd less. Is not Christ saying now, as in the days 
of Ezekiel, "My flock was scattered upon all the face of the earth, and 
none did search or seek after them." 

But some volunteer, completing his course of study, says, " Should 
I not wait upon God for grace and guidance ? " That depends. What 
do you want guidance for? If to determine what foreign field should 
claim you, well and good. But if to determine whether you shall go 
abroad or stay at home, remember that question was settled when you 
signed the pledge. You have decided once for all to go unless God 
blocks the way. Do not re-open that question. But should I not pray 
for grace. God never gives grace for futures. We all have more light 
than we live up to. To get more we must use what we have. Then 
there are crises when any delay is unjustifiable. Notwithstanding the 
many adversaries opposing, a wide door and an effectual is open to us. 

What are our privileges ? They belong to two classes, — those be- 
fore sailing and those after reaching the field. 

1. Those before saiUng : 

(a) We have the personal privilege for preparing for the largest 
possible service. Throughout our courses of study we have the assur- 
ance that every bit of knowledge can be utilized in the foreign field. 



170 

Are you a skilled mechanic ? Read Stanley's description of Mackay's 
work in Africa : " A high solid workshop in the yard filled with tools 
and machinery ; a launch's boiler was being prepared by the black- 
smiths ; a big canoe was outside repairing. There were saw pits and 
large logs of hard timber ; and quiet laborers came up to bid us, with 
hats off, ' good morning ! ' " And, best of all, about 2,000 Christians, 
of whom Stanley says, " Such fortitude, such bravery, such courage ! 
it is unexampled in the whole history of Africa — just the fortitude I 
had read of in books of the martyrs of the early church." Remember 
that Mackay was an explorer, ship builder, sailor, doctor, peacemaker, 
diplomat, teacher, and preacher. What larger field do you want for 
your varied talents ? Oh ! that is Africa, you say. Of course all kinds 
of talent can be used there. Come to India. There you can learn of 
a missionary who works in indigo factories, supported his family, and, 
in addition to that, earned $2,500 worth of property for his mission. 
You find this same artisan invited to teach Bengali, Sanscrit, and 
Marathi in the government college. You may see him superintend 
thirty-four translations of the Bible, or parts of the Bible, into as 
many different languages, besides doing a stupendous amount of evan- 
gelistic work. 

Can you use the axe as well as the pen ? Both kinds of skill are 
needed abroad. Knowledge of printing, blacksmithing, ship-building, 
carpentry, medicine, journalism, book making, all can be utilized in 
this magnificent work to which we look forward. A volunteer writes 
from Africa, " we are very anxious to get a young man, a layman, to 
come to see to our transport business." As the German proverb states, 
" All kinds of nets are needed for all classes of fish." We have all 
classes of work abroad, and every talent, can, it consecrated, be utilized. 
Here is a work for which no man is too great — -none too small — if 
the heart be filled with the Holy Ghost ; a work in which the weak 
things, base things, and those despised have been used. And, as we 
study and think of this work, how our hearts and minds expand! 
The millions who cling to great ethnic faiths troop into our sympa- 
thies until our thoughts broaden, our love deepens, and we too have 
begun to love the world somewhat as God loved it. Oh, the personal 
privilege of preparing for the work of foreign missions ! 

(b) But there is a public privilege for us prior to going abroad : 
First, to secure volunteers. Next to going yourself comes the 
pleasure of getting some one else to go. Secure another man to enter 
foreign service and your life is doubled. Prevail upon fifty, and your 
life is multiplied fifty-fold, if they turn out to be as good workers as 
yourself. There is a Kansas volunteer in our midst who has secured 
130 recruits, an Ohio man who has been instrumental in obtaining 150 



171 

other volunteers. Think of the privilege. I do pity the men who go 
abroad empty-handed, and cannot point to a single man having decided 
as a result of their efforts. Think of the privilege of receiving such a 
letter from the Dark Continent : " I am thankful to God for the 
Inter-Seminary Alliance. . . . Glad I met you there. . . . From the 

number you addressed, in my seminary, is in Micronesia, is in 

Japan, is in Turkey, is on his way to Zululand, and I am 

here." Do not let Forman, Speer, and Cossum have a monopoly of 
this privilege. What would you think of having a man from China 
write : " lowe to you my being here. As a result of a walk with you 
over the college campus, I signed this covenant and joined the band." 
Such letters I prize among my choicest treasures. 

Secondly, we have the privilege of arousing the home church to a 
greater interest in the work of missions. You say, that is presumption. 
We should follow, not lead, the Church. But God has worked differ- 
ently. If Martin Luther had waited for the Church to lead, where 
would have been the Reformation ? If William Carey had waited for 
the Church to lead, where would have been modern missions ? Prof. 
Austin Phelps speaks as follows of the first missionary revival in 
America, 1810 to 1812: "Foreign missions from this country had 
their birth, not in the churches, not among then- ministers and wise 
men, but in Williams College and Andover Seminary ; not among the 
people who were to support them, but in the hearts of those who were 
determined to go supported or not supported. It was youthful fore- 
sight that detected that early dawn. It was youthful faith that read 
the promise of the meridian. The fathers smiled, and the wise men 
shook their heads at the dream of the young men, but now the room 
where they met for prayer and the grove where they walked in counsel 
have become shrines." 

" Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth ! " God chose a young man 
to arouse England, and he did it, though only after twelve years' 
battling. God chose a young man to arouse America to assist in the 
world's evangelization. Is He not calling us to stir the church of 
America to, finish the work of world-wide evangelism ? It is in our 
power to stir Canada and the States from Toronto to Texas and from 
Nova Scotia to the Pacific. Think what God did through the one 
man Wesley. What can He not accomplish through 500 men and 
women if we let Him use us ! Think of the churches and the institu- 
tions which we re^jresent. How can we accompUsh this ? The way 
in which Jerusalem was kept clean was by having every man sweep 
before his own door. Let each one of us sweep away from his own 
church and institution whatever ignorance and indifference there is to 
this, the greatest work of the nineteenth century. 



172 

2. After sailing : 

First, the personal privilege. We can enter upon the grandest 
work given men to do. A work which the greatest Apostle coveted : 
"Unto me, who am less than the least of all saints, is this grace 
(privilege) given, that I should preach among the Gentiles the un- 
searchable riches of Christ." Do you wonder that a volunteer writes 
from Africa, " There is such joy in this service that I almost pity 
those who have to stay at home " ? As we enter the foreign field let 
us remember that we are treading in the footsteps of the greatest men 
of the church. Schwartz, Carey, Livingstone, Martyn, Judson, 
Hannington, and a host of others are watching us. Seeing " we are 
encompassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside 
every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and run with 
patience the race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus, the author 
and finisher of our faith." 

Secondly, by sailing we have the privilege of strengthening the 
home church. One says, " As metaphysics may be called the pure 
mathematics of Theology, so missions are its practical application, and 
are destined to play an important jpart in correcting the vagaries of 
theologians, as practical engineering has done in the domain of theoret- 
ical mechanics." 

Thirdly, we have the privilege, after reaching the field, to co-operate 
with missionaries and native Christians in a forward movement to speed- 
ily evangelize the world. It is the privilege of being at the front in 
what may be the final charge. We must admit that the world can be 
evangelized in this generation. Whether it shall be depends largely 
upon us, the students of North America. Courage, fellows ! If God 
could evangelize through missionaries our ancestors, the skin-clad 
Britons and the naked savages of Germany, He can use us to evangelize 
any existing heathen nation. But, to accomplish this, one thing is 
essential. With it success is assured. If the student volunteers 
receive this fire from on high our land -nill be illumined and the 
dangers of distant lands be dispelled. "And there appeared unto 
them cloven tongues like as of fire, and it sat upon each of them. And 
they were all filled with the Holy Ghost." We volunteers need this 
fire. 

1. Effects of baptism of the Holy Ghost. (1.) Boldness. Acts 
4 : 29, 31 . (2.) Utterance. A cringing coward, when filled with 
the Spirit, faces the whole populace of Jerusalem. He looks upon 
those before whom he denied Christ. The audience was unfavorable, 
his message distasteful ; but the Holy Spirit gave utterance, and there 
followed an effect unknown in the history of the world. The same 
day 3,000 were converted. 



173 

Paul asked Christians to pray " that utterance may be given unto 
him," and utterance was given. He and Barnabas " so spake that a 
great multitude . . . believed." Paul the scholar, Paul the learned, 
Paul the philosopher, prays for utterance. What does this mean? 
Have we not heard men speak elegantly and learnedly, yet the words 
did not move hearts nor mold lives. They were " faultily faultless, 
icily regular, splendidly null." Why? The speakers lacked unction. 
They did not possess this utterance of the Holy Spirit. 

Mary and Elizabeth had this utterance. Whitfield possessed it. 
One says, "It is utterly impossible to assign a natural reason why 
Whitfield should have been] the means of converting so many more 
sinners than other men. Without one trace of logic, philosophy, or 
anything to be called systematic theology, his sermons, viewed intel- 
lectually, take an humble place among humble efforts." 

2. Who can have this baptism of the Holy Spirit? Not only the 
Apostles, not only the seventy — even the women — all. This is our 
heritage as much as it was Peter's. We should have more power than 
he had, since we have the same promises and the light of his example. 

3. How can we obtain this baptism of the Holy Spirit? "God 
has spoken, yea, twice have I heard this, that power belongeth unto 
God." To Him we must look, and to Him alone. But there are 
several conditions we must fulfil before receiving this power. 

(1). Bible study. Peter was not ignorant and unlearned as far as 
his Bible knowledge was concerned. His sermon at Pentecost was 
made up entirely of quotations from the Old Testament Scriptures 
and applying these passages. The early disciples were thoroughly 
familiar with the doctrines and promises of the Word. Christ had 
taught them how to use the Sword of the Spirit. (John 14 : 26.) 
He cannot bring things to our remembrance unless we first store them 
in our memory. , 

(2). Faith. It is better to have too much faith than too little. It 
is better to be too hot than to have a Laodicean lukewarmness. Ste- 
phen was " full of faith and of the Holy Ghost." He was " full of faith 
and of power." See how the word faith is emphasized. Do you sup- 
pose that God will give us a Pentecostal outpouring of His Spirit if we 
are so " narrow " and " proper " as to practically deny the possibility of 
another Pentecost now ? As we go abroad let us remember the words, 
" According to your faith be it unto you." " He could not do many 
mighty works because of their unbelief." Let us expect a Pentecost 
upon the foreign field. 

(3). Eye single to God's glory. He will not give His glory to 
another. When Uzziah " was strong, his heart was lifted up to his 
destruction." If we preach for " effect," to win admiration, the Holy 



174' 

Spirit will not fill us. Can we truthfully say with Zinzendorf , " I have 
but one passion, and that is He ? " 

(4) . Waiting, eager waiting upon God. (Luke 24 : 49.) They 
tarried ten long days, though the world needed them. Let us never, 
never dare to leave for foreign service until endued with power from 
on high. Nothing but prayer will give us this power. Remember 
that they were all with one accord in one place. Fellows, if we long 
for this baptism let us all meet with one accord daily around the mercy 
seat. There is a power in united supplication. Let us pray at the 
noon time daily for this power. 

Then note that they were eagerly waiting upon God. They must 
have had that prayer meeting very early in the morning ; for after they 
had received the baptism of the Holy Spirit, and after the news had 
spread and the crowds had assembled, it was only nine o'clock in the 
morning. And only the hungiy and thirsty shall be filled. (Jer. 
29: 13.) 

If we go from this Convention filled with the Holy Spirit, what 
then ? A missionary revival will sweep through Canada and the 
States, and the world will be speedily evangelized. What then ? 
When the Tabernacle was finished it was filled with the glory of the 
Lord. When our work of preaching the Gospel to the whole creation 
is finished, " the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory 
of the Lord as the waters cover the sea." . 

FAREWELL MEETING. 

After a period of a few minutes, made impressive by silent prayer, 
the farewell meeting, which was given up entirely to the volunteers, 
was begun, and included brief addresses, in which were presented the 
needs of various lands and peoples, and also testimony from students 
and others of the chief impression of the Convention or the dominant 
purpose formed while at Cleveland. 

Ml'. H. G. Bissell, of Hartford Theological Seminary, said : — 

Friends and volunteers, I have no introduction, I have no statistics, 
and I have nothing humorous to say. India needs first of all the 
Gospel of Jesus Christ. India needs that Gospel through yourself 
personally, individually; and no country can get the Gospel of Jesus 
Christ without wholesouled love on the part of Christ's disciples. I 
speak not only as one who has lived there, but as one who has come to 
love the people ; and I shall never feel satisfied unless I can go back and 
work among them. And to those of you who desire to go, let me say, 
that if you do truly desire to go and work among the people of India, 
no one can prevent you. 



175 

India needs the Gospel first for the young men and the boys. The 
young life of India is waking up to Western thought. Don't think that 
India is in the background. India's thought is coming to the front, 
and can shortly stand up alongside of Western thought. It needs the 
Gospel for the young girls ; it needs it — God pity them — for the 
desolate widows of India : it needs it for the men who are going down- 
ward every day because of the superstition and the ignorance which 
weigh so heavily upon them. Go to no country unless you love the 
people of that country with the deepest and sincerest love with which 
God has endowed you. Come to India and you will find places there to 
demand any kind of talent. I have been there as a boy in my father's 
family, going around with him from district to district, and I say that 
any kind and all sorts of talent may be used in India for its evangeli- 
zation. And, in facing this great truth, which seems almost impossible, 
I comfort myself with these three thoughts : God's greatness, Chi-ist's 
redemption for the world, and the vacant field. Face the three and 
come along. 

Rev. Kajinosuke Ibuka, vice-president of the Meji Gakuin, Tokio, 
Japan, said : — 

The needs of Japan are many and great; but, above all, Japan 
needs Christ. The leading men of Japan have been carried away with 
your civilization, and the Japanese government has adopted one system 
of your civilization, and has introduced one improvement after another, 
the last thing being the adoption of the representative form of govern- 
ment ; and our first parliament is in session now. But what is the 
rest of the civilization without the religion of Jesus Christ ? Indeed, it 
is a serious question if the introduction of Western civilization into 
Japan without the religion of Christ will not be a positive injury. 
The greatest need of Japan, let me repeat, is Christ. But Christ 
needs His messengers to carry His Gospel to the people of Japan. 
And so the next need of Japan is men, men like Christ, filled with the 
Spirit of Christ. A great deal has been said about the intellectual 
preparation of missionaries, which is true ; but, after all, it is the life 
of men, the Christlike life, that is needed. We do not ask for many. 
We do not ask for 1,000, we do not ask for 500, we do not ask for 
300 ; we ask for 100 young men, full of the Spirit of Christ. And 
with those 100 young men, with the force already on the ground, the 
whole empire of Japan, with its 40,000,000 people, can easily be evan- 
gelized, God helping us, in this generation. There is not the least 
doiibt about it. 

Twenty-five years ago Christianity was prohibited in Japan. 
When I became a Christian, in 1873, it was high treason to the 



176 

empire to profess Christianity. When I joined the church of Yoko- 
hama that was the one solitary Japanese Christian church in the whole 
empire. But now, thanks to God, we have more than 300 churches 
throughout the whole country, now we have about 35,000 Christians 
in the country. God has removed one difficulty after another, and has 
opened the door wide, and tells His people to come in and and take 
possession of the land for Christ. Will you not come to Japan and 
preach the Gospel to the Japanese people. And with your help, and 
the forces already on the ground, I repeat, God helping us, that I 
think the whole country may be easily evangelized in this generation. 
May God grant us His blessing ! 

Mr. Mott: — 

There is one race to which we owe more than to any other, con- 
cerning which we have said comparatively nothing in this Convention, 
and I have asked Mr. Slomans, a converted Jew, to speak to us a few 
minutes upon his race. 

Mr. Wm. Slomans : — 

Nineteen hundred years ago the dear Lord Jesus, before leaving 
this world, bade adieu to those watching disciples upon the mount out- 
side the city. Remember his words in Acts 1:8," But ye shall receive 
power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you : and ye shall be 
witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in Samaria, 
and unto the uttermost part of the earth." It has not been carried 
out, dear friends. There are to-day 12,000,000 Jews in the world, 
about the same number that were in the world when Christ lived ; and 
how little has the effort been made to tell them the story about their 
elder brother's death for them. I heard to-night that in Cleveland 
alone there are 5,000 Jews, and not a tract distributed upon the sti'eets 
among them to tell them about Jesus. Dr. Freshman, in New York, 
is doing a marvelous work in this direction. Successful work is in 
progress in Boston and Chicago. Cleveland has no such work. The 
motto of this Movement, "The Evangelization of the World in this 
Generation," I believe to be a reality ; I believe that you and I will 
see the successful carrying out of that motto by the help of God. 
And I will tell you how we can hasten it — by getting God's own chil- 
dren to see the reason. God has given the Jews the wealth of the 
world for a reason, — namely, to extend His cause; and I tell you, dear 
friends, it is our incumbent duty to tell those despised and rejected 
Jews the story of the Cross. We have heard a good deal about edu- 
cation, industrial work, and other work among the heathen. The Jew 
does not need any industrial work, does not need any educational work, 



177 

because they have these. They are not pagans ; they are not heathen. 
They need Christ. There are none of you in whose faces I look but 
have heard the story of the Cross and seen its radiance. You have 
power to tell them of Jesus. If this Convention does not result in 
anything else, if it only puts a desire in your hearts to lead a child 
of Abraham to the Cross, it will have accomplished its mission. 

Mr. E. E. Helms, of Topeka, Kan., speaking on Africa, said : — 

I beUeve if Jesus Christ were here to-night, and could point to 
that picture [indicating the map of Africa], he would say there is only 
one place in this universe darker than that spot, and that is the land of 
the blackness of darkness forever. I heard a man say not long since 
that the social sin had honeycombed the city of New York. It has 
eaten the heart and soul and body of Africa. You can magnify Mo- 
hammedanism, and Romanism, and Catholicism, and a thousand other 
things ; but it is the social sin with which the devil is cutting the throat 
of Africa. 

I heard a gentleman a short time ago describing the greatest army 
that ever marched. He spoke of Napoleon's army of five hundred 
thousand with which he swept down upon Russia; and of the five 
millions which Xerxes brought down to sweep Greece ; and of Sher- 
man with his army fifty miles wide marching on to the sea. And I 
said, surely it is not true. The greatest army ever in march would 
make a procession 150,000 miles long and ten men deep, sweeping 
toward the sea of destruction, in rags and filth and witchcraft and sin 
and idolatry down to death — 8,000,000 last year, 250 since we have 
been in this hall, We have sung and written and talked about Africa 
long enough ; and if the Lord stood here to-night He would say, " Let 
somebody go." Africa needs heroic men. If Jesus Christ were here 
He would say to you that it means sickness, starvation, death, to 
go to Africa. But it meant death for Him to come down to this 
world. It meant death for Paul to go to Rome. To-night Africa 
pleads and Africa dies ; and Jesus Christ from the heavens pours down 
into your heart His Spirit, with these burning words, " If ye love me, 
keep my commandments," — which means, save Africa. 

Then followed a brief statement from volunteers expecting to go to 
foreign fields within the next twelve months, telling where they in- 
tended to go and why. A few only are given : — 

" I want to go to Assam, India, because I believe I must go." 

"To the Telegoos, because they are perishing for the Word of 
Life." 



178 

" To Burmah or to India, I am not positive which — hut to preach 
the Gospel of Christ, because I believe it is the power of God unto 
salvation for every one that believeth." 

" I am going to the Soudan, because it is the darkest place in the 
world." 

" To India, because I was born there and saw the needs of the 
young men and young women there with my own eyes." 

" I am going to Corea, because I believe that is the country which 
needs me most, in the medical work." 

" I am going to Brazil, because there are milUons there — 2,000,000 
of native Africans, and a native population of 12,000,000 — without the 
Gospel of Christ." 

" I am going wherever God wishes me to go, because He commands 
me and has given me a call to take hold." 

" I am going to Bulgaria, unless the Board wants me to go some- 
where else, because I was born there and know the needs of that field." 

" I expect to go to India within the next twelve months, because I 
believe it is the key to Asia, and the vast masses of the unreached 
millions are still in Asia." 

" I expect to go to China, because I believe it is the Gibraltar of 
missions. One-third of the human race are there, and most feebly 
equipped with missionaries." 

" India, I think. ' Woe is me, if I preach not the Gospel of 
Christ.' " 

Mr. J. A. Sinclair, of Queen's University, Canada, then spoke, as 
follows, concerning the Volunteer Movement in Canada : — 

I did not know I would have to speak to-night until I came into 
the hall, and consequently I am afraid I cannot pack as much into two 
minutes as you Americans can. There is one thing I must say, and 
that is that I think we delegates from Canada have received a great 
deal of inspiration from our contact with the Americans. I think the 
closer relations we can have in spiritual matters, especially regarding 
the world's evangelization, the better. There is no danger of too 
much competition there, because the more competition in spiritual 
matters the more benefit every one receives. 

Your chairman has asked me to speak regarding the Volunteer 
Movement in Canada. He and Mr. Cossum are better prepared to 
speak of it than I ; but I can speak of the Movement in our own insti- 
tution. In the first place, I made the remark a little while ago that 



179 

this Movement must have had its origin in Heaven, because so many- 
different places claim it. If the Volunteer Movement did not start in 
our University at Kingston, we claim that the plan of each institution 
sending its foreign missionaries started there. We had already planned 
to send two missionaries when we were brought into relations with this 
Movement. You have already heard the chairman say that ten per 
cent, of the Canadian volunteers had already reached the field, against 
five per cent, of Americans. I am proud of that. "We are slower than 
Americans, but when we do get started we have momentum. 

In reference to our impressions from this Convention, I think its 
aims have been grandly attained. The Convention has brought the 
volunteers into contact with the Mission Boards and with the veterans 
from the foreign field. I feel that the Volunteer Movement is now on 
a firmer and more intelligent basis than ever before. The contact with 
the veterans has shown us how wonderfully God sets His seal on the 
work of foreign missions. There may be a great deal of enthusiasm 
in reference to volunteering for the mission field, but when you come 
down to solid facts it means mucji to leave father and mother and 
home and friends and home influences. But when we hear one after 
another coming and saying, as one lady did this afternoon, " I envy you 
because you are to be in the foreign field before me," what stronger 
testimony do we need ? May God bless the Volunteer Movement ! 

Mr. Mott : — 

We would like now to hear from a great many of the delegates. 
Confine yourselves now to two facts : 1 . Mention where you are 
from. 2. Take your choice of one of two things — the dominant 
impression which this Convention has made upon you, or the dominant 
purpose which you have formed while here. 

Among the responses were the following : — 

" Oberlin. Go to India." 

" Syracuse University. An indefinite purpose to give my life to 
foreign missionary work changed to a definite pm-pose for that work." 

" Ohio Wesleyan. I have been impressed with the needs of Africa, 
and expect to give my life to that work." 

" Muskingum College. More volunteers. I feel the need of becom- 
ing thoroughly consecrated." 

« Adrian College. My chief impression has been my own insig- 
nificance." 

" Yale University. The immense power of prayer." 



180 

'• Woodstock College. A profound conviction that this work is of 
God." 

" Bucknell University. I am convinced of the fact that the motto 
of the Volunteer Movement can be realized." 

" Gettysbm-g Theological Seminary. I don't look at this matter as 
so great a sacrifice as I did before. I look at it as a work of love and 
a work of duty." 

" Richmond College. My purpose is to strive to please God." 

" Ohio Wesleyan University. Going to China as a self-supporting 
physician if possible." 

" Olivet. Have decided that I will hand in my name to the Stu- 
dent Volunteer Movement." 

A question as to how many present had reached this decision to 
hand in their names to the Student Volunteer Movement during the 
Convention brought quite a number present to their feet. 

" I wish to say that the address this evening changed my mind. I 
did not know how to leave my mother, because I loved her so ; but 
now I believe that I love Christ more, and the love of Christ constrains 
me." 

" The impression on my mind is the great opportunity I have for 
laboring in the churches during the year and a half before I go." 

" Marietta College. Fully convinced that if I do my part I need 
not fear but that I shall succeed." 

" Bucknell University. I came looking upon that motto as a grand 
but unattainable idea. I go home feeling that it can be realized." 

"Andover Theological Seminary. My immediate purpose is to 
revive that missionary society which we had at Andover." 

" Oberlin. I will find a church to send me." 

" I have had a desire since I was eight years old to go to Africa. 
I have had that desire strengthened." 

" Cornell University. I intend to interest in missions every heart I 



" Ohio Wesleyan University. I want to spread more light in 
Africa." 



181 

Mr. S. M. Sayford said : — 

I trust that in prefacing these remarks I may be permitted to say 
a word to the delegates in the way of a very brief bit of personal 
experience, by which I wish to illustrate the value of personal effort. 
An old man in Lockport, New York, writes me that he has been pray- 
ing for the success of this Convention. Seventeen years ago he was a 
commercial traveler. The speaker was a merchant in Western Penn- 
sylvania. He came into my store one day. I said to him : " It is just 
my beer hour. Come over and have a drink with me." " Thank 
you," he said, " I don't drink. Will you read a little book ? " He 
handed me a little tract on intemperance. I read it over my social 
glass. In the afternoon the commercial man sold me a bill of goods, 
but never referred to the tract. A month afterwards, meeting me on the 
street, he asked me if I had read the little book. I said yes, and 
he gave me another on profanity. I promised to read it, and read it. 
Two months and a half later, selling me a bill of goods, he asked me if 
he could have a word in private with me in the little office. We went 
back into the little office, and he said, " My dear fellow, do you believe 
in prayer ? " I said, " My mother did." " Do you believe in prayer? " 
I said, " Yes." " Well, I have a little book here ; it is not a tract, it is 
what I call my prayer list. I have only the names of men here who 
have allowed me to pray for them. Will you put yourself down ? " 
I said, " What do you want to pray for ? " "I want to ask God to 
make you a Christian." I had heard many a sermon, but nothing that 
went to my heart like that. It is worth something to win a man to 
Jesus Christ ; and if I am worth anything to the colleges of this coun- 
try to-day, and through them to this Volunteer Movement, humanly 
speaking, you owe it largely to that commercial traveler who now, at 
eighty years of age, can yet pray for the blessing of God on this Vol- 
unteer Movement. Go home and do personal work, and fit yourselves 
for the foreign field. 

There are two or three things for which we are particularly grate- 
ful. First of all, we are indebted for the very generous hospitality of 
the citizens who have given their homes and entertainment in the hotels 
of this city, and thus have cared for us and given to us comfort and 
pleasure. And to many of us Cleveland must be added as one of the 
many green spots we find in doing the Master's work. 

Next, we are indebted to the press for their faithful and generous 
reports of the doings of this Convention. And then we are indebted 
in a special way, and I don't know but what aU this indebtedness comes 
directly or indirectly to the citizens, because you would not have any 
press here if you did not have citizens. And when I express the 
gratitude of this Convention to the Young Men's Christian Association 



182 

of Cleveland, again we are expressing our gratitude to the citizens, for 
it is through their generous contributions that this magnificent building 
stands here, a monument to the glory of God, pointing the young men 
of Cleveland to the Lamb of God that taketh away the sins of the 
world, — a building more perfect in its appointments than any I have 
seen in the wide, wide land, with many new features that make it 
pleasant, cosy, comfortable, home-like. And you, friends, in giving 
this magnificent building to the Young Men's Christian Association, 
have brought the young men of all classes in this beautiful city to 
where they can have no excuse whatever for want of Christian fellow- 
ship and the benefits that come from united Christian effort. 

And last, but not least, we express our gratitude to the friends who 
were moved last night to make an offering unto God in special gifts to 
the Volunteer Movement. My dear friends, we have reason to believe 
that what you did last night you did for Jesus' sake. And when I 
counted the hundred — no, there were ninety-nine, and a friend put in 
the other — pennies only out of all this audience, I said, " I doubt not 
that these pennies, even perhaps more than these dollars, were given for 
Jesus' sake." And we want to thank, with this class that gave last 
night, the dear friends who are going to give this week ; because Mr. 
Goodman is to receive checks and pledges for the furtherance of the 
work that is represented in this successful and far-reaching Convention. 

May God accept all our offerings, whether of money, or of effort, 
or of self, and help us all when we give, whatever we give, to be quite 
sure that we have given indeed ourselves unto Him, — these bodies a 
living sacrifice, which is our reasonable service. May the fragrance of 
this Christian gathering linger in this city when we have gone, and 
may the recollection of these blessed days in which we have sat to- 
gether in the heavenly places, kindle anew the devotion and loyalty in 
the hearts of God's people in this city, and result in days to come in 
bringing to their number many more who shall further God's word, 
and, with the eye of faith fixed on the King, work with these delegates 
till Jesus comes. 

Mr. Wilder then read a letter from a Cleveland minister, who had 
been in attendance upon the sessions of the Convention, and had been 
moved to take the volunteer pledge for foreign mission work. 

Mr. J. L. Taylor said : — 

Mr. Chairman and delegates, when you came to this city, you 
came with the idea of bringing yourselves in contact with the veterans 
from the field, and with the Board of the churches, in order that you 
might more fully equip yourselves for the work. Perhaps you thought 
of Cleveland; but I can tell you that the other night when I said 



183 

that we as citizens of Cleveland and members of the Young Men's 
Christian Association appreciated the honor of having this Convention 
held here, I hardly knew fully what I was talking about. To-night I 
not only appreciate the honor, but I lift my eyes to God and thank 
Him that He has brought you among us. We certainly feel very 
grateful ; and I wish that you had before you a more worthy and 
representative citizen to tell you all that you have done for us as Chris- 
tian citizens of Cleveland. But I am a son of the same Father as you 
are, and I can tell you what you have done for the Christians of 
Cleveland. 

You have shown us what the work of the Holy Spirit can do. You 
have opened up unto the citizens of Cleveland more fully than ever 
before what the words '' consecrated " and " sanctified " mean. We 
have heard a great many missionary addresses, but there is one sen- 
tence that I heard this morning that made all of these facts sink into 
my heart, and that is this: "I expect to-be on the field next year." 
If we can have a person talk to us, and present the facts of the needs 
of the foreign field, who feels those needs deeply enough to go himself, 
we feel there is something in those facts. 

And so, while all of us in Cleveland shall not go to the foreign 
field, we also feel that you have stimulated this desire in our hearts, 
that as Christian people we shall more thoroughly consecrate our- 
selves as stewards of the Lord Jesus Christ. You are going from us 
to-night and we may never see you again ; but, as we bid you farewell, 
you may know that you have taught us not only to be looking for our 
Lord Jesus Christ, but that we may help to hasten His coming. And 
so, as I said, as we may not see you again, in some glad day we both 
will hear the shout when we shall be gathered up to meet Him in the 
air, and so shall we ever be with our Lord. 

Mr. F. S. Goodman says: — 

I hardly know what to say, dear friends, but there is one word that 
I think will be a kind of key-note to anything I may say, and that is 
the word " opening." I regard these closing days of the past week 
and this first day of this new week as the real opening of this building. 
For the last four weeks we have had this building filled with people, 
but I say this is the real opening of this building. At our last State 
Convention a year ago, Mr. Mott dashed off for us in three sentences a 
motto for the State work of Ohio : " Hide the word of God in your 
heart. Tie yourselves to one man. Fix your eyes on the uttermost 
parts of the earth." And this new building, I thank God, has been 
opened to the uttermost parts of the earth. 



184 

The second opening is this: you have opened the minds of our 
people. A month ago we called a committee together to provide for 
your entertainment, and not a man on the committee knew anything 
about the Student Volunteer Movement. You have opened our minds 
now. 

Third : I praise God that you have opened our hearts a little bit. 
I thank God that there are men here to-night who will go home, and 
who know where they can invest money for the King where it will 
pay. 

Miss Nettie Dunn said : — 

Dear friends, we have been brought together here by a co mm on 
purpose, even a life purpose. We had made upon our hearts long 
before we came the impression of God's Spuit that we must go to the 
unevangelized, and we have had that impression followed by deep 
convictions, which we could not avoid, that we must go. And I hope 
that during this Convention we have had those convictions deepened. 
A woman said to the young men in Boston the other day in an address, 
" Be a positive element in society." Let us be a positive element in 
the Christian Church, going forth to these unevangelized lands filled 
with positive conviction. 

A word to the women volunteers. There are a hundred thousand 
young women in our American colleges to-day ; fifty thousand of them 
are Christian women, and only one or two thousand are volunteers for 
the foreign field. There are between four and five million Christian 
young women in this country, and only this handful going out to this 
great and needy field. In our colleges is there not a great work for us 
to do yet ? Just a few things we can do, and do right away : Organize 
thoroughly in every college and in every association in our States. 
Plan to multiply ourselves, each one of us, a hundredfold within the 
next year. And then, let me say to you, will you not pray especially 
that a successor to Miss Guinness be found to work among us ? May 
we not pray that a young woman can be found to go up and down this 
land laboring as Mr. Speer and Mr. Cossum have been doing, and 
working among the young women ? I thought all through these years 
how my friend, Grace Wilder, in India, has been pouring out her heart 
to God. Shall we not pray in the same way for the young women of 
America to be saved, and the young women on the other side to be 
won to our Christ ? 



185 

Mr. W. H. Cossum, Traveling Secretary of the Student Volunteer 
Movement, said : — 

This Convention will adjourn to-night, and you will go back to your 
colleges and seminaries. To-morrow morning you will have to have a 
quarrel, possibly, with the ticket agent over these certificates. You 
will have a long ride on the railroad train, and you will be tired when 
you get back to your college. You will have some lessons to make up, 
and a great many things to check the high tide of feeling in this Con- 
vention to-night. Set your teeth together to-night before you go to 
bed, and determine that with God's help, after you get back, that you 
will carry out the principles you put down in your note-book. Go and 
emphasize the organizations which are there in your colleges ; work 
through them, perfect them. Do the cold work, the uninspiring work. 
If there is any one thing that has made this Movement, it is cold facts, 
heated possibly by men who have spoken them. Go home and empha- 
size the channels through which these facts are presented. Emphasize 
this organization ; let that burn itself into your heart. 

Another thing for the volunteers. Do what you can do to further 
the Movement as volunteers. If every one of these 6,000 volunteers, 
by the grace of God and active service, gets another volunteer, just one 
— some of you have four or five years to do it in, some two or three, 
some one — if you each get one volunteer, there will be 12,000 instead 
of 6,000. God help each one of you to do this between this time and 
the time of your sailing. Then inform yourselves. Fill yourselves 
with facts ; make yourselves foreigners ; and use aU the influence in the 
church that God has opened up to you, remembering that there is a 
great deal you think you will do now that possibly you will not do if 
you do not dedicate yourselves to it with a firm will to-night, and ask 
God to help you. 

The closing remarks of the Convention were made by Mr. R. E. 
Speer, as follows : — 

There was an evening in the life of our Elder Brother when, the 
Lord's heart grieved at the death of His friend John, he climbed a 
mountain side and sat alone to pray. And when the evening was come 
and the Lord was alone praying, He had to turn His steps down from 
the mountain top where He was alone with His Father, that He might 
do His peaceful work among the troublesome waves of the sea. At 
my own home in Pennsylvania, just above the village, there is a hill 
where one may go day after day alone and sit down in the silence 
of the Lord's own presence, the sights of the town still moving fast 
below, and yet all the while the restful peace of the Lord's own life 



186 

around him. And yet, when the hours are gone, the steps must go 
down again, and the roar and the noises and the daily tasks fill our 
ears and our lives again, instead of our loneliness with the King. 

My fellow students, these days of our joy have come to their even 
time now. We have had the pleasure of them and the richness of 
them, and to-night we must look into one another's faces for the last 
time before our feet go down once more to walk the paths where not 
one with another, but each one with our Lord, we shall walk apart, 
and yet together. I am very sure that as we go down there are many 
things that will stand before us that will naturally cool us. There are 
many things in the midst of which we may find great difiiculty in still 
keeping this tenderness, this sweetness, that God has given us in these 
days. And I am very sure that, come what wiU, sooner or later there 
will be more hindrances than one put in our way before we may lift 
up the light of the face of Jesus Christ in the world's dark places. 

There are just three thoughts in my mind to-night about these 
hindrances, at which for just one moment we might look. We had 
better remember that to the devoted soul a large hindrance means 
only increased devotion and prayer. I think we must remember, 
secondly, that the need of this world of ours, and the unobeyed voice 
of Jesus Christ, call in these days for a blindness to hindrances like 
that which marked the lives of those who saw the Lord in the flesh. 
And I think we ought to have confidence, in the third place, that i£ 
we know the need of the lost ones, and if we love Him who laid down 
His hfe for us and for them, we shall not be apt to make the mistake 
of walking in any pathway where Jesus the Master cannot walk with 
us. 

I should like to say that, as we have tarried here, our hearts have 
been knit pretty closely to those with whom the Lord has thrown us 
in contact ; and in the hearts of most of us to-night there are some 
desires we should like to speak to you a little while about. We are pretty 
sure we have learned to love a great many of you, and that it is the 
one desire of our hearts, especially for these who in the next twelve 
months hope to turn their footsteps into the regions beyond, that you 
should love them. In the years to come it will be a great joy to us to 
remember that the first night that we met with those who entertained 
us in this first meeting of ours, we won the hearts of those who, in all 
the years to come, will work with us for Him who loved us and laid 
down His life for us. 

May T say, my fellow students, yet once more, gathering up for 
just one moment the lines of these thoughts which are rising in our 
minds, that there are three things for each one of us which should 



187 

mark our lives from this day forth ? First, may we from this time be 
holy ones, holy even as He was holy, and holy not when we reach the 
field only, hut holy now. It may be that the words that we speak this 
last night may have faded out of our minds ; it may be that the deeds 
we shall do outwardly this coming year may not be very strong as men 
count deeds of strength ; but the lives that we live from this day for- 
ward shall either glorify or grieve Him. We may remember the words 
of Professor Drummond, of Dr. Livingstone, how many a time he had 
passed through tribes of Africa where David Livingstone had gone 
before, and at the mention of the good doctor had seen the savage 
faces brighten. They had not understood his words, but jthey knew 
the language of love in which he spoke to them, and they never forgot 
it. Fellow students, may we learn among other things this year the 
language of the Lord's tender love. May we be changed from glory 
to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord, until He molds us into the 
likeness of His own character. And, in the second place, may we 
from this day forward be men of prayer. May our lives from this 
very moment be nothing but an outbreathed prayer. There is one 
man here to-night who will remember, as I speak of it, that years ago 
we used to sit Saturday after Saturday, and whichever one would think 
of it first would say : " 1 Thessalonians 5 : 25, to-day — ' My brother, 
pray for me.' " May it be this coming year that as our hearts form a 
wish it may be quickly laid at His feet; that as quickly as our 
hearts gain a motive it may be handed over to Him ; that as quickly as 
we see anjrthing that our brother needs we shall find a delight in ask- 
ing God to give it to him. And the last thing, my fellow students, is 
this — it has been emphasized more times than one ; it is the yearning 
prayer of every heart here to-night : that besides being holy ones and 
men of prayer, we are to be in this world, more than all else, the living 
powers of the King. " Without me ye can do nothing." " I can do all 
things through Christ who strengtheneth me." " So then we are am- 
bassador's for Christ — in Christ's stead." "As my Father hath sent 
me, even so send I you." 

And now, fellow students, it is pretty hard to put in this cold lan- 
guage of ours the words of farewell that our lips must speak to-night. 
It is pretty hard to think that now, once for all in this world, we sit 
down together at the feet of Jesus Christ. It is pretty hard to remem- 
ber that never again will those of us who have met here to-night meet 
as we have met now, until at last in the Upper City we sit down at 
His feet forever. And perhaps the best thing we can do to-night is, 
just in the silence and the stillness and the sweetness of that holy 
place in our lives where you and I live alone with Christ Jesus, to 
commend unto God and the word of His grace every volunteer who, 



188 

with life devoted to Jesus Christ, shall sooner or later have the rare 
joy of holding up the life and death and the blood of his Lord before 
the world. And then — 

" Sunset and evening star, 
And one clear call for me. 
And may there be no moaning of the bar 
When I put out to sea. 

But such a tide as moving seems asleep, 

Too full for sound or foam. 
When that which drew from out the boundless deep 

Turns again home. 

Twilight and evening bell, 

And after that the dark. 
And may there be no sadness of farewell 

When I embark. 

For though from out the bourne of time and place 

The flood may bear me far, 
I hope to see my Pilot face to face 

When I have crossed the bar." 



EEPRESEISTTATIYES OF MISSIONARY SOCIETIES. 

Rev. J. G. Bishop, Dayton, Ohio. Missions of American Christian 
Convention. 

Rev. H. N". Cobb, D.D., New York City, N. Y. Board of Foreign 
Missions of Reformed Church in America. 

George D. Dowkontt, M.D., New York City, N. Y. Interna- 
tional Medical Missionary Society. 

Rev. F. F. Ellinwood, D.D., New York City, N. Y. Board of 
Foreign Missions of Presbyterian Church of U. S. A. 

Prof. H. H. Haekis, LL.D., Richmond, Va. Foreign Missions of 
Southern Baptist Convention. 

Rev. William McKee, Dayton, Ohio. Foreign Missionary Society 
of United Brethren Church. 

Rev. A. McLean, D.D., Cincinnati, Ohio. Foreign Christian Mis- 
sionary Society. 

Rev. J. N. MuEDOCK, D.D., Boston, Mass. American Baptist Mis- 
sionary Union. 

Rev. J. O. Peck, D.D., New York City, N. Y. Missionary Society 
of the Methodist Episcopal Church. 

Rev. 0. D. Patch, Cleveland, Ohio. Free Baptist Foreign Mis- 
sion Society. 



189 

Rev. D. C. Rankin, Nashville, Tenn. Foreign Missions of Pres- 
byterian Church in the United States. 

Elias Rogbbs, Toronto, Canada. Foreign Mission Board of the 
Friends' Yearly Meeting of Canada. 

Rev. Geoegb Scholl, D.D., Baltimore, Md. Board of Foreign 
Missions of EvangeUcal Lutheran Church (G. S.). 

Rev. JuDSON Smith, D.D., Boston, Mass. American Board of 
Commissioners for Foreign Missions. 

Rev. F. A. Stbvkn, Toronto, Canada. China Inland Mission. 

Rev. A. SuTHBELAND, D.D., Toronto, Canada. General Board of 
Missions of the Methodist Church. 

R. R. McBuRNET, New York City, N. Y. Foreign Mission Com- 
mittee of the International Committee of Young Men's Christian 
Association. 



REPRESENTATIVES OF WOMAN'S MISSIONARY 
SOCIETIES. 

Mrs. H. Benton, Cleveland, Ohio. Woman's Foreign Missionary 
Society (M.E.), Cincinnati Branch. 

Mrs. A. G. Bbbgen, Evansville, Indiana. Woman's Board of For- 
eign Missions (Cumberland Presbyterian). 

Mrs. S. B. Capeon, Chicago, 111. Woman's Board of Interior. 
(Congregational) . 

Miss Abbie B. Child, Boston, Mass. Woman's Board of Missions 
(Congregational) . 

Mrs. J. N. CirSHiNG, Philadelphia, Pa. Woman's Baptist Foreign 
Missionary Society of Pennsylvania. 

Mrs. Geoege D. Dowkontt, New York City, N.Y. International 
Medical Missionary Society. 

Miss Annie Geisingee, St. Louis, Mo. Woman's Board of Mis- 
sions of the Southwest (Presbyterian). 

Mrs. Dr. Gerould, Cleveland, Ohio. Woman's Board of Missions 
of Christian Church. 

Miss Julia Haskell, Cleveland, Ohio. Woman's Foreign Mis- 
sionary Society (Presbyterian). 

Mrs. Juliana Hates, Baltimore, Md. Woman's Board of Mis- 
sions of the M.E. Church, South. 

Miss Lizzie J. Lloyd, NUes, Ohio. Woman's Foreign Missionary 
Society. 

Mrs. L. K. Millee, Dayton, Ohio. Woman's Missionary Associa- 
tion (United Brethren). 



190 

Mi-8. RicHAED C. MoESE, New York City, N.Y. Woman's Board 
of Foreign Missions (Presbyterian). 

Mrs. Ellen G. Revblet, Cleveland, OMo. Woman's Foreign 
Missionary Society (M.E.), Cincinnati Branch. 

Mrs. L. G. RoMicK, Delaware, Ohio. Friends' Board of Foreign 
Missions of Ohio. 

Mrs. N". M. Watekbuet, Boston, Mass. Woman's Foreign Mis- 
sionary Society (Baptist). 



RETURNED MISSIONARIES. 

Africa. 



C. J. Laffist, 
Rev. W. S. Sage, 
Mrs. W. S. Sage, 
Rev. Geoegb A. Wilder, 



Congo Free State. 
Rutofunk, West Africa. 
Rutofunk, West Africa. 
Natal, South Africa. 



Brazil. 

Rev. G. W. Chamberlain, D.D., San Paulo. 
Rev. John M. Kyle, Rio de Janeiro. 



BURMAH. 



Miss Isabella J. Watson. 

Miss J. E. WiSNEE, 



Rangoon. 





Chili. 


Rev. J. M. Allis, 


Santiago. 




China. 


Rev. Mr. Beach. 




Mrs. Beach. 




Rev. A. A. Fulton. 




Rev. J. N. Hates, 


Suchow. 


Rev. George L. Mason, 


Huchow, East China, 


Miss Ella J. Nevtton, 


Foo Chow. 


Mrs. Mart H. Shaw, 


Tung Chong. 


Mrs. D. Z. Sheffield, 


Tung Cho. 


Mrs. F. A. Steven. 






Core A. 


Miss Meta Howard, M.D., 


Seoul. 



191 

India. 



Rev. M. J. COLDEEN, 


Orissa. 


Mrs. Emma J. Coldebn, 


Orissa. 


Rev. J. W. CoNKLiN. 




Rev. Henry Foeman, 


Lahore. 


Mrs. Jennie Fuller, 


Akola. 


Rev. J. P. Graham, 


Sangli. 


Rev. J. P. Jones,; 


Madura. 


Mrs. J. P. Jones, 


Madura. 


Rev. G. L. Wharton. 




Rev. R. Wlntsoe, 


Sirur. 




Japan. 


Rev. W. R. Lambeth, M.D., 


5obe. 




Turkey. 


Rev. C. F. Gates, 


Mardin. 


Mrs. E. D. Marden. 





CORRESPONDING DELEGATES. 

William Allison, St. Paul, Minn. Young Men's Christian Asso- 
ciation. 

J. M. Archibald, Buckville, Ont. Young People's Society of 
Christian Endeavor. 

Gilbeet a. Beaver, Harrisburg, Pa. Assistant State Secretary 
Young Men's Christian Association. 

Rev. R. H. Bent, Philadelphia, Pa. 

J. M. Berkel, Madison, Wis. 

Miss Annie M. Brush, Bakersville, Pa. 

F. H. Burt, Chicago, 111. Assistant State Secretary Young Men's 
Christian Association. 

H. L. Canweight, M. D., Battle Creek, Mich. 

Rev. Charles B. Chapin, Schenectady, N. Y. 

Myron A. Clark, Kansas City, Mo. Assistant Secretary Young 
Men's Christian Association. 

W. H. CossuM, Traveling Secretary of Student Volunteer Move- 
ment for Foreign Missions. 

C. J. Dole, Painesville, Ohio. 

Miss Nettie Dunn, Chicago, 111. International Secretary Young 
Women's Christian Association. 



192 

Prof. Kansom Dunn, D.D., Hillsdale, Mich. 

Mrs. Dr. Dunn, Hillsdale, Mich. 

Miss Hattie E. Dyek, Scranton, Pa. State Secretary Young 
Women's Christian Association. 

Rev. C. H. Fenn, Tonowanda, N. Y. 

George S. Fisheb, Topeka, Kan. State Secretary Young Men's 
Christian Association. 

Rev. A. J. Gordon, D.D., Boston, Mass. 

Rev. J. T. Gbacey, D.D., Rochester, N. Y. President Inter- 
national Missionary Union. 

Luther Gulick, M. D., Springfield, Mass. Young Men's Chris- 
tian Association Training School. 

Miss Thibsa F. Hall, Chicago, 111. International Secretary 
Young Women's Christian Association. 

E. E. Helms, Topeka, Kan. Assistant State Secretary Young 
Men's Christian Association. 

J. M. Hudson. 

Miss Anna L. Ingels, Oakland, Cal. Secretary California Tract 
Society. 

Miss M. Belle Jepfert, Jackson, Mich. Secretary Young 
Women's Christian Association. 

Rev. J. G. Jones, Cleveland, Ohio. 

Miss S. C. Kbigbaum. Young Women's Christian Association. 

Miss Ona Kudbr, Mt. Vernon, Ohio. 

Arnold J. Latham, Chicago, 111. 

Clarence H. Lee, New York City, N. Y. Secretary International 
Committee Young Men's Christian Association. 

Miss Virginia Massie, Baltimore, Md. 

W. R. McIntosh, Toronto, Ont. Canadian Intercollegiate Mis- 
sionary Alliance. 

Miss Marion Mbtcalp, Elyxia, Ohio. 

John R. Mott, New York City, N. Y., College Secretary Interna- 
tional Committee Young Men's Christian Association. 

Rev. Alexander N. O'Brien, Topeka, Kan. 

Rev. A. T. PiERsoN, D.D., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Will E. Reed, Cincinnati, Ohio. Intercollegiate Secretary Young 
Men's Christian Association. 

Miss Emma Rbbdee, New York City, N. Y. State Secretary 
Young Women's Christian Association. 

Miss N. Ritzenthaler, Akron, Ohio. 

Rev. Edwin P. Robinson, Orchard Park, N. Y. 

S. M. Satford, Newton, Mass. College Evangelist. 

Miss Lizzie M. Sattlbr, New Philadelphia, Ohio. 



193 

Rev. J. F. Shepherd, Akron, Ohio. 

E. L. Shuby, Dayton, Ohio. 

Miss Emma Silver, Kalamazoo, Mich. State Secretary Young 
Women's Christian Association. 

Aethue J. Smith, Somerville, Mass. Evangelist. 

G. C. Smith, Springfield, Ohio. Executive Committee Inter- 
Seminary Missionary Alliance. 

Miss CoEABEL Tare, Chicago, 111. International Secretary Young 
Women's Christian Association. 

Rev. J. A. Thome, Marysville, Ohio. 

Eugene Undeehill, Philadelphia, Pa. Secretary Intercollegiate 
Young Men's Christian Association. 

Mrs. M. A. Walkee, M.D., Toledo, Ohio. 

Miss Emma J.Walton, Clyde, Ohio. Young People's Society of 
Christian Endeavor. 

J. Campbell White, New York City, N. Y. Secretary Interna- 
tional Committee Young Men's Christian Association. 

Miss LomsE M. Wilcox, Fredonia, N. Y. 

E. J. Witt, Chicago, 111. 

Miss Blanche Zehring, Delaware, Ohio. State Secretary Young 
Women's Christian Association. 



STUDENT DELEGATES. 

New Brunswick. 

Mt. Allison College (1), Sackville. 

Leonard, S. C. 

Nova Scotia. 

Acadia College (1), Wolfville. 
Kempton, a. C. 



Ontaeio. 
Albert College (2), Belleville. 
Emberson, R. Godbold, W. H. 

Huron College (1), London. 

Beownlee, Wm. F. 
Knox College (2), Toronto. 
Gould, Wm. Geant, W. H. 



194 

McMaster Hall (2), Toronto. 
Chute, J. E. McDonald, A. P. 

Queens University (1), Kingston. 

SlNCLAIE. J. A. 

Trinity Medical College (3), Toronto. 
Baebbe, H. L. Smith, E. G. Thompson, J. J. 

University College (1), Toronto. 
Scott, J. S. 

Victoria University (2), Cohourg. 
Agae, Miss E. E. Agae, Gilbbet. 

Woodstoch College (1), Woodstock. 
Langfobd, O. G. 

Wy cliff e College (1), Toronto. 
Lea, Aethue. 

Quebec. 

McGill University (1), Montreal. 

Read, F. W. 

McGill University Ladies^ Missionary Society (2), Montreal. 
Bean, Elizabeth S. Williams, Annie. 

Alabama. 
Selma University (1), Selma. 
LovELL, Miss A. H. 

Aekansas. 

Hendrix College (1), Conway. 

goddaed, o. e. 

Califoenia. 

Pacific Bible School (1), Oakland. 

BuEEus, Gboegia a. 

Connbctiout. 

Hartford Theological Seminary (1), Hartford. 

BissELL, H. G. 



195 

Wesley an University (2), Middletown. 
DuKBSHiEB, Wm. B. Ratmond, R. W. 

Yale Divinity School (2), New Haven. 
EwiNG, G. H. Faiebank, Edwaed. 

Yale University (9), JSfew Haven. 
Beonson, Olivbe H. Kbllee, Feank A. Shaw, Augustus F. 
Beown, Alphonso B. Leteeett, Wm. J. Wateeman, W. G. 
Huntington, Dan'l T. Pitkin, Hoeace T. Whittemoee, W. C. 

DisTEicT OP Columbia. 

Howard University (1), Washingtoii. 

Weatheeless, N. E. 

Illinois. 
Baptist Union Theological Seminary (3), Morgan Park. 
GouDT, B. F. Meeeifield, I. N. Young, W. M. 

Bible Institute (4), Chicago. 
Baenes, Emily. Hookee, W. C. Slomans, Wm. 

Cheistensen, Hulda. 

Chicago Medical College (1), Chicago. 

Setmoue, W. F. 

Eureka College (1), Eureka. 

Jones, Silas. 

Knox College (1), Qaleshurg. 

Laekin, Ralph B. 

Lake Forest University (2), Lake Forest. 

House, Hbebeet E. Vance, E. E. 

McCormick Theological Seminary (2), Chicago. 

Bandy, C. H. Swallen, W. M. 

Monmouth College (1), Monmouth. 

Kleno, J. G. 

Northwestern College (2), Naperville. 

SCHLUTBE, H. C. TaYAMA, H. M. 

Northwestern University (8), Evanston. 
Battbeson, Elva. Louthan, O. W. Tomlinson, W. F. 

Cobb, Geo. C. Stahl, Josephine. Wallee, A. J. 

Ceaig, Frances. Feasee, H. A. 



196 

University of Illinois (2), Champaign. 
M(3Gee, W. S. McLanb, C. D. 

Wheaton College (2), Wheaton. 
Dow, Elsie S. Haeris, Prof. Boss A. 

Woman^s Medical College (2), Chicago. 
McGeegoe, Miss K. M. Stauffee, Emma. 

Indiana. 

Sutler College (1), Irvington. 
Lacy, W. F. 
Goates College (1), Terre Haute. 
DoAK, Eleanoe. 
DePauio University (6), Greencastle. 
Erickson, C. T. Jackman, Floeence. Takasugi, J. 

Geeen, Lillie. Noeton, R. C. Wise, W. H. 

State Normal School (2), Terre Haute. 
CooPEE, Effie. Stenninger, S. D. 

Union Christian College (1), Merom. 

Penbod, C Tena. 

Wabash College (1), Crawfordsville. 

Christian, W. F. 

Iowa. 
Cornell College (2), Mount Vernon. 
Adams, Geace. Ballz, James. 

Drake University (2), Des Moines. 
Campbell, G. A. Caetee, C. O. 

Iowa College (1), Grinnell. 
Weatheelt, Aethue L. 

Iowa Wesleyan ZTniversity (1), Mt. Pleasant. 
Huene, G. B. F. 

Parsons College (2), Fairfield. 
KisBE, A. E. King, Maet. 

Penn College (2), Oskaloosa. 
Hadlbt, J. H. Woody, Clarence E. 



197 

Simpson College (1), Indianola. 

Lauck, Ada J. 

State Normal School (1), Cedar Falls. 

Howe, Anna. 

State University (1), Iowa City. 

Beasted, Feed. 

Western College (1), Toledo. 

Keohn, W. O. 

Kansas. 
Maker University (1), Baldwin. 

Peaeson, Peael M. 

CoUege of Emporia (1), Emporia. 

Entaet, F. C. 

Kansas Normal School (1), Fort Scott. 

Wells, C. B. 

Ottawa University (1), Ottawa. 

KiNGSLEY, F. W. 

University of Kansas (1), Lawrence. 
FoGLE, W. C. 

Kentucky. 
Georgetown College (1), Georgetown. 

Beonson, Ray. 
Kentucky Uiiversity (4), Lexington. 
FoEEEST, W. M. Stevens, E. S. Tayloe, W. B. 

Spicee, E. V. 

Maine. 

Cobb Divinity School (1), Lewiston. 

Hamlen, Geo. H. 

Colby University (1), Waterville. 
Slocum, J. B. 

Massachusetts. 
Amherst College (1), Amherst. 

NOETON, C. D. 



198 

Andover Theological Seminary (1), Andover. 
Stearns, E. R. 

JBoston University School of Theology (1), Boston. 
Nayloe, S. W. 

Harvard University (2), Cambridge. 
Seaes, Wm. R. Shapleigh, A. L. 

Massachusetts Agricidtural College (2), Amherst. 
Felt, E. P. Shoees, H. T. 

Mt. Ilermon School (2), Mt. Hermon. 
Moody, A. E. Watson, R. L. 

Mt. Holyoke College (1), South Hadley. 
Cleveland, Maet. 

Newton Theological Institute (1), Newton Centre. 

BaESS, J. HOWAED. 

School for Christian Workers (3), Springfield. 
Coebett, D. Watson. Cowles, E. B., Jr. Lunbeck, A. W. 

Wellesley College (2 ), Wellesley. 
Jones, Lauka A. Steenbeeg, Amalle. 

Williams College (1), Williamstown. 
Luce, Feank L. 

Michigan. 

Adrian College (1), Adrian. 

Claek, Rev. H. V. 

Albion College (2), Albion. 
Fillio, U. H. Palmee, Helen E. 

Battle Creek College (2), Battle Creek. 
Magan, Peecy T. Rossitee, Feed M. 

Battle Creek Sanitarium (4), Battle Creek. 
Foy, Mrs. M. S. Whitney, Mrs. E. Whitney, Jean C. 

LoPBB, A. N., M.D. 

Hillsdale College (5), JTillsdale. 
Copp, Prof. John S. Moody, 'Lizzie. Teacy, Lauea. 

Copp, Mabel. Pelton, B. H. 



199 

Hope College (2), Holland. 
HuiziNGA, H. Vanderploeg, H. 

Olivet College (9), Olivet. 
BiNKHOEST, Haeey. Cole, A. C. Lee, A. L. 

Blish, W. H. CouETEiGHT,Mis8M. Meade, Coea. 

Beiggs, W. a. Feost, M. A. Westeatee, Miss M. 

University of Michigan (12), Ann Arbor. 
Allen, Miss M. Gaednee, F. M. Sandeeson, Mary. 

Blakely, Wm. a. Gaednee, Mrs. F. M. Smith, L. A. 

Bogofsky, U. L. Hued, Fannie B. Waples, F. A. 

Beown, Hugh. King, Ella. Wood, Lillis A. 

Minnesota. 

Carleton College (1), JVbrthfteld. 

Keause, F. O. 

Missouei. 
Central College (1), Fayette. 

Ransfoed, C. O. 

Park College (3), Parhville. 

Demuth, Maggie. McClain, Albbet M. Towee, Feed J. 

Missouri Valley College (1), Marshall. 

Madden, L. W. 

Westminster College (2), Fulton. 

Boving, C. B. Hickman, W. L. 

William Jewell College (1), lAherty. 

Etjbanks, M. D. 

New Hampshiee. 

Dartmouth College (1), Hanover. 

Pottee, Elmee C. 

New Jersey. 
College of New Jersey (4), Princeton. 
Dbnman, C. H. Riggs, C. T. Stebet, Ieving W. 

Haeeis, Wm. 

Drew Theological Seminary (1), Madison. 
Schilling, G. J. 



200 

Princeton Theological Seminary (3), Princeton. 
Sailer, T. H. P. Speer, Robert E. Williams, C. S. 

Rutgers College (1), New Brunswick. 
ScTTDDER, Walter T. 

New York. 

Auburn Theological Seminary (1), Auburn. 

Bancroft, F. E. 

Cazenovia Seminary (1), Cazenovia. 

Hadley, C. Arthur. 

City Mission Training School (2), 129 JEJast Tenth Street, N.Y. City. 

Beyer, Alida. Jefferson, Miss A. M. 

Colgate Academ,y (2), Ham/ilton 
Clare, D. H. Vinton, S. R. 

Colgate University (3), Hamxlton. 
Case, C. D. Crego, H. P. DeWoody, Chas. 

Cornell University, Ithaca. 
Bray, Wm. L. Hasbeouck, Maude E. Kellogg, Robert J. 

BuRRAGE, Herbert F. Hawlbt, Sarah H. 

General Theological Seminary (1), N. Y. City. 

Smith, Wm. WiiLLTER. 

JIamilton College (5), Clint07i. 

Brockway, T. Clinton. Feltus, Geo. N". Stoeloff, Pano S. 
BuBD, Geo. S. Fletcher, Obville T. 

Hamilton Theological Seminary (3), Hamilton. 
Grinnbll, Clayton. Hibbaed, Geo. L. Stanton, Wm. A. 

International Medical Missionary Institute (2), JV. 1'. City. 
Hall, Wm. J. Henderson, A. H. 

Mochester Theological Seminary (1), Rochester. 
McGuire, John. 

Union Theological Seminary (15), iV". Y. City. 

Campbell, C. D. Fryling, William. Mooehead, Max W. 

Clark, Walter J. Hastings, W. W. Moerison, C. 

CoRNWBLL, G. Ibuiva, Rev. K. Swift, Benjamin. 

Fairly, Edwin. Jones, T. J. Thomas, J. M. 

French, C. H. Keer, F. M. Wilder, Robert P. 



201 



University of Rochester (1), Rochester. 

Sweet, F. J. 
University of Syracuse (2), Syracuse. 
FooTE, Anna. Wood, F. H. 

North Carolina. 

Guilford College (1), Guilford College. 

Retnolds, Herbert W. 

Ohio. 

Adelbert College (about 35), Cleveland. 
Names not taken. 

Baldwin University (11), JBerea. 
Fisher, Elmer K. Sigrist, C. Stbmm, Jacob. 

Hagerman, E. W. Sigrist, Lena. Steter, Fred'k S. 

Harris, Nellie. Simester, James. VanDeren, Ruth. 

Meter, Mr. Shreve, J. T. 

Dennison University (5), Granville. 
Brumback, a. M. Packer, E. B. Wilkin, W. A. 

Mason, G. L. Tanner, C. H. 

Farmington College (2), West Farmington. 
Heapes, W. J. TowNSEND, Geo. B. 

Heidelberg University (5), Tiffin. 

Brxtgh, C. W. Rohrbaugh, C. M. 

Culver, Wm. H. 
Hiram College (23), Hiram. 

Craft, Laura. Rag an, G. A. 

Dean, Allib M. Rice, P. J. 
Forrest, J. D. 
Frost, Miss A. G. 
Lyon, Miss M. A. 
Mahortee, J. H. 
Moobe, W. J. 
Newton, J. T. 
Lake Erie Seminary (25), Painesville. 
Bentlet, Miss L. P. Hough, Miss K. M. Prescott, Miss L. T. 
Lawrence, Miss M. E. Reed, Miss E. W. 
Lemon, Miss C. H. Richet, Miss A. G. 
Lemon, Miss G. Saevee, Miss M. 

Mackey, Miss L. A. Seeata, Mrs. Nobu. 
Mason, Jessie A. Smith, Beetha. 
Meeshox, Miss C. L. White, Miss G. 
MuNGER, Miss M. A. Williams, Miss F. 



Alspach, E. E. 
Belsee, J. W. 



Allen, C. A. 
Allen, E. W. 
Baetlett, S. H. 
Bartlett, Mi-8. S. H. 
Beaman, Carrie A. 
Beck, Blanche. 
Calvin, W. D. 
Claek, Josephine. 



Ryder, C. C. 
SCOTTA, L. O. E. 
Shepaed, Miss. 
Smootz, C. E. 
Wagner, D. G. 



Brooks, Bessie. 
Congee, Miss B. 
Eastman, Lillian. 
Evans, Mary. 
Fisher, Miss E. F 
Hall, Clara. 
HiGBEE, Edith. 
HiGBEE, Maet. 



202 



Lane Theological Seminary (1), Cincinnati. 
Smith, A. IST. 

Marietta College (5), Marietta. 

Addy, Aethue E. Colb, Jambs M. Hubee, A'. T. 

Baetlett, Chas. W. 

Miami University (1), Oxford. 
Keom, a. E. 

Mt. Union College (2), Mt. Union. 
FowLBE, H. B. Keelbe, Mteta. 

Muskingum College (2), Neio Concord. 
Glennon, J. E. Maetin, Miss Jose. 

Oberlin College and Seminary (81), Oberlin. 

Albeetson, Ralph. Gillis, Millie S. Noeton, Helen G 
Atwatee, Mrs. E. R. Geeene, C. W. 
Beaed, Willaed L. Haskell, E. B. 
Blackstone, Floea L. Haskell, H. J. 
BeeckeneidgbJuanita. Hicks, Ida M. 



Beebd, M. a. 
Beeed, Mrs. M. A. 
Beintnall, W. a. 
Beown, H. E. 
Beowning, C. H. 
bueeoughs, c. h. 
Child, B. V. 
Chittenden, A. H. 



HiNMAN, Geo. W. 
HiNMAN, Susan F. 
Ieeland, F. a. 
Ieeland, W. F. 
Janes, T. I. 
Johnston, W. J. R. 
Jones, Alice I. 

JUDKINS, W. L. 



Chittenden, Caeeib E. Kinnet, Mabel R. 



Chuech, a. a. 
Colby, S. L. 
Cowley, Edith C. 
Dalzell, C. O. 
Dodge, E. G. 
Deumm, John. 
Button, C. F., Jr. 
Ellis, J. T. 

FiFIELD, J. W. 

Feench, E. G. 
Peost, Prof. W. G. 
Gadsby, Geo. 
Gaevee, R. C. 



KlEKPATEICK, C. C. 

Keiebel, O. S. 
Lyall, J. L. 
Lyman, Heney J. 
Manley, M. Ella. 
McCoED, Mary E. 
McCoed, J. B. 



Obenhauee, H. F. 
Paesons, Miss E. C. 
Pendleton, Claea L. 
Penniman, Iea B. 
Phelps, Floea B. 
PiEECE, William. 
PiNCHA, John. 
Ross, H. S. 
Seveeance, a. D. 
Simpson, Samuel. 

SiNCLAEE, C. E. 
Smith, Lauea C 
Stanley, E. H., instr'r. 
Stanley, Miss G. W. 
Stough, H. W. 
Van Buek, John. 
Walkee, Mrs. 
Waltees, Jas. J. 
Wateehouse, E. C. 
Waugh, W. M., Jr. 



McLaughlin, Rob't. Webstee, C. S. 
McRobeets, T. R. Wildeb, Geo. D. 
Meade, G. W. Williams, G. L. 

Mellen, Geaoe S. F. Wise, John H. 
Millbe, Maetha H. Wood, S. R. " 
Moon, M. Alice. Weight, G. W. 



203 



OMo Unwersity (1), Athens. 

Westervblt, W. a. 

Ohio Wesleyan University (12), Delaware. 



Curtis, E. H. 
Feet, Ltjla 
Gross, T. W. 
Hallowell, Ida. 



Hammond, E. S. 
Johnson, F. I. 
Miller, S. D. 
Morgan, Minnie. 



RiTCHARDSON, G. L. C. 

Scott, W. 

WiSMAN, J. P. 
WOMEB, P. P. 



Shepardson College (1), Graninlle. 
Van Cleef, Lillian. 

Union Biblical Seminary (5), Dayton. 
BoNEBRAKE, P. O. Roberts, J. T. Tomat, Mrs. J. B. 

Kerr, J. Tomat, J. B. 

Wittenberg College and Seminary (10), Springfield. 
Becker, O. A. Gotwald, Fred G. Mohler, Marion M. 

Beamkamp, John M. Hadlby, M. J. Sigmund, Will S. 



Delo, Frank S. 
Debr, C. E. 



Liebeet, E. R. 



Weaver, H. J. 



Adams, Lora L. 
Allen, C. B. 
augell, j. w. 
Babcock, Bert E. 
Beck, E. A. 
Bell, F. W. 
Bickeestaph, G. L. 
Buckley, Mabel. 
BULLAED, F. L., Jr. 
Cave, W. L. 
culbeetson, m. l. 
Elder, Jas. F. 
Fitch, Robert F. 



Wooster Seminary (39), Wooster. 

Flatteey, F. L. Newell, Wm. R. 



Geeen, E. F. 
Jones, M. J. 
Kennedy, E. B. 
King, Iea. 
Lewis, A. B. 

LiNHAET, S. B. 

Lyon, Abbie M. 
Lyon, D. W. 
Marshall, C. P. 
McGaw, a. G. 
Mitchell, W. T. 
Newell, Mart. 



Pendleton, E. M. 
Pollock, Kate. 
Porter, M. P. 
Sherman, G. D. 
Skinner, J. E. 
Speee, J. S. V. 
Snydee, S. S. 
toensmeiee, e. s, 
Tyndal, J. W. 
White, Anna. 
Weight, M. E. 
Young, J. W. 



Western Female College (3), Oxford. 
Beown, Bessie. Ceowthee, Elizabeth. McKee, Leila S. 

Western Reserve Academy (3), Hudson. • 
Geant, W. S. McVey, C. Y. Reinhold, F. P. 

Pennsylvania . 
Suchnell University (3), Lewisburg . 
Davis, Raymond J. Feetz, T. S. Pauling, E. C. 



204 

Evangelical Lutheran Seminary (1), Gettysburg. 

WiEAND, H. E. 

Grove City College (4), Grove City. 
Bleaknet, W. H. Kelley, J. C. Ritchie, W. S. 

Campbell, Howard. 

Lafayette College (1), Easton. 

Laied, J. B. 

Pennsylvania College (1), Gettysburg. 

Ball, J. W. 

Theological Seminary of Reformed Church in United States (1), 

Lancaster. 
MuiE, W. J. 
United Presbyterian Theological Seminary (9), AUeghany. 
Andekson, W. T.\ McFaeland, K. W. Welsh, J. M. 

Fulton, W. K. McNabt, D. S. L. White, J. S., M.D. 

McCluee, R. E. Pollock, J. B. Wishaet, J. E. 

Washington and Jefferson College (3), Washington. 
Johnson, W. C Knanee, F. G. Lewis, Chakles. 

Western Theological Seminary (2), Alleghany. 
Letenbeegee, James P. Swax, Chaeles W. 

Rhode Island. 

Prown University (1). 

Beees, W. L. 

Tennessee. 

Cumberland University (3), Lebanon. 

Donnell, John T. Holistee, Moses K. Montgomeey, L. M. 

Vanderbilt University (3), Nashville. 
Cook, O. F. Nancb, W. B. Peeet, J. W. 

Veemont. 
University of Vermont (2), Purlington. 
Evans, John M. Pitkin, Geo. F. 

Vieginia. 
Pantops Academy (2), Charlottesville. 
Tayloe, Prof. Wm. P. Tayloe, Mrs. W. P. 



205 

Richmond College (1), Richmond. 
Chambees, R. E. 
Roanohe College (2), Salem,. 
Geeevee, W. H. Shenk, E. A. 

Theological Seminary of Virginia (1), Fairfax Co. 

Meem, John G. 

Union Theological Seminary (1), Hampden- Sidney . 

Johnson, Cambeon. 

University of Virginia (1), University of Va. 

Tatloe, J. Spottiswood. 

West Vieginia. 
Rethany College (12), Rethany. 
Baldwin, Maet. Fox, Evangeline. Poetee, Mat. 

Campbell, Louisa. Jenkins, B. A. White, Clara. 

Chapman, A. L. McGavkan, John G. Wilflet, Eaele A. 

FoETiBK, Geace. Mucklet, O. K. Williamson, Minnie. 

Wisconsin. 
Reloit College (3), Reloit. 
Jacobs, H. H. Shumakee, F. W. Wheelee, E. C. 

Lawrence University (1), Appleton. 
Allen, E. D. 
Ripon College (2), Ripon. 
Bethel, H. O. McDeemid, Mary. 

State University (1), Madison. 
Beefel, J. M. 
Wayland Academy (1), Reaver Dam. 
Whtte, J. P. 

Total students, 558. 

Total delegates, 680. 



Missionary Literature. 



In response to many inquiries for the best missionary books, the 
Corresponding Secretary has given no little time to the preparation of 
the following list of best available missionary books. Moreover, as 
these books are not handled by any one dealer (having been selected 
from the publications of over a score of firms), the Executive Committee 
have determined, for the convenience of the Volunteers, to undertake 
to carry a small stock of the books named below. While intended 
primarily for Volunteers, all who wish may avail themselves of the 
reduced rates offered. 

A uniform discount of twenty per cent, (one-fifth off) is allowed on 
the list prices which are given after each book. Carriage — postage or 
expressage ■ — must be paid by the purchaser, except on libraries offered 
below, or on purchases of $15 or more. In ordering by mail, add 
postage to four-fifths of list price. In ordering by express, send simply 
four-fifths of list price, and expressage will be collected on receipt of 
books. 

Only the books named are carried in stock, but inquiries for others 
will receive prompt attention. 



LIST No. 3. JULY, ISQl. 

A CLASSIFIED LIST OF SELECTED MISSIONARY BOOKS. 



QENERA.Iv ^?V0RK:S. 



(a) Encyclopedic. 

yt. The Encyclopedia of Missions. A Thesaurus of Facts, Historical, Statis- 
tical, Geographical, Ethnological, and Biographical, with Maps, Bibliography, 
and Statistical tables. Edited by Rev. Edwin Munsell Bliss, late Assistant y 
Agent American Bible Society for Levant. Two volumes. Over 1,700 pages, . 
with elaborate maps, etc. 1891. $12.00. Postage, 40 cents, (^(^yt, fci-l,*^^) 

The most recent and complete work on missions. It should be in the li 
brary of every pastor and within the reach of every student. 

(b) Historical. 
2. Short History of Christian Missions, from Abraham and Paul to Carey, 
Livingstone, and Duff, by George Smith, LL.D., F. R. G. S. 1890. $1.00. 
Postage, 7 cents. 

An exceedingly valuable hand-book on the history of missions. It should 
be in the hands of every Volunteer and every student of missions. 
y3. Outline of the History of Protestant Missions from the Reformation 
to the Present Time. A Contribution to Church History, by Dr. Gustav 
Wameck. Translated from the second edition, by Thos. Smith, D.D. 1882. 
$1.25. Postage, 9 cents. /^ iV , s-io) 

Especially valuable to students. 
//^. Moravian Missions. Twelve Lectures by Augustus C. Thompson, D. D. 
1882. JS2.00. Postage, 1 1 cents. 

A well written and instructive history of these leaders in missionary effort. 
5. The Dawn of the Modern Mission, by the Rev. Wm. Fleming Stevenson, 
D.D. 1886. jSi.oo. Postage, 6 cents. 

A very readable account of early missions, especially in India. 

(c) Surveys of the World-Field. 
'w^6. The Crisis of Missions, or. The Voice out of the Cloud, by Rev. Arthur 
T. Pierson, D. D. 1886. Paper, $0.35 ; cloth, $\.2^. Postage, 9 cents. 

An inspiring survey of the trials and triumphs of missions, with reference 
to their urgent claims upon the Church. (^^ 3^"^ 
V7. Protestant Foreign Missions : Their Present State. A Universal Survey, 
by Theodore Christlieb, D.D., Ph. D. Translated from the fourth German 
edition by David Allen Reed. 1880. $1.00. Postage, 8 cents/ -^f .**"<■) 
A valuable review of missions down to 1880. 
•8. Christian Missions in the Nineteenth Century, by Rev. Elbert S. Todd, 
D.D. 1890. $1.00. Postage, 7 cents. /VIPH^) 

A brief study of Christianity in its relations to heathenism, commerce, 
statesmanship, etc. 



208 

g. Around the World Tour of Christian Missions. A Universal Survey, 
by William F. Bainbridge. 1881. JS2.00. Postage, 16 cents. 

A very readable account of travel, with many practical observations on 
missions. Illustrated. 
^10. Report of the Centenary Conference on the Protestant Missions of the 
"World, held in London, June, 1888, edited by the Rev. Jas. Johnston, F.S.S. 
Two volumes. 1888. $2.00. Postage, 27 cents. •^'•«i'i . 4"*^) t''-'^- 
Contains much valuable information for the use of students. 
^^ ,11. The Missionary Year-Book for 1889-90, containing historical and statis- 
tical accounts of the principal Protestant Missionary Societies in America, 
Great Britain, and the Continent of Europe. 1889. iSi.25. Postagei 
II cents. -^ y-'t'l' ^^f'- 
Useful to students and pastors. 
1/ 12. The Great Value and Success of Foreign Missions, proved by Distin- 
guished Witnesses, by Rev. John Liggins. 1888. Paper, )|5o.35 ; cloth, Jfo.75. 
Postage, 7 cents. ('H'-'<'' .'-^V 

A choice collection of testimonials useful to speakers on missions. 
y' 13. The Evangelization of the World, A Missionary Band. A Record of Con- 
secration and Appeal, by B. Broomhall, Secretary of the China Island Mission. 
Second edition. 1887. iSi.50. Postage, 16 cents. JvjJs.yTdi , S-Vl— 
I »^.«-*'-*-^ ^ fa^fg collection of short chapters and paragraphs on a great variety of 

'W'-'*"^' missionary topics. A storehouse for students. 

14. Mission Stories of Many Lands. A Book for Young People. With three 
hundred and fifty illustrations. 1885. $2.00. Postage, 21 cents. 

A very interesting and instructive book, covering almost the entire world. 

(d) Religions not Confined to One Country, 
\/i5. Present Day Tracts on the Non-Christian Religions of the World. 
Comprising : The Rise and Decline of Islam, by Sir William M^ ; Christianity 
and Confucianism compared in their Teaching of the Whole Duty of Man, by 
Jam^Leg^ ; The Zend-Avesta and the Religion of the Parsis, by J. Murray 
Mitchell ; The Hindu Religion, A Sketch and a Contrast, by J. Murray Mitchell -ff^ 
Buddhism, A Comparison and ji^^ntrast between Buddhism and Christianity, 
by Rev. Henry R. Reynolds, ^D. ; Christianity and Ancient Paganism, by J. 
Murray Mitchell, M. A., LL. ST $1.00. Postage, 8 cents. 
»/ 16. Islam and Its Founder, by J. W. H. Stobart, B. A. 1876. |i.oo. Postage, 
6 cents. ■^(»..14"V- 

The best concise study of Mohammed and his teachings. 
17. The Coran, its Composition and Teaching, and the Testimony it bears to the 
Holy Scriptures, by Sir William Muir, K. C. S. I., LL.D. 1878. $i.oo.' 
Postage, 6 cents. 

Especially valuable to all who are preparing to come into contact with 
Mohammedanism. 
^ 18. Buddhism. Being a Sketch of the Life and Teachings of Gautama, the 
Buddha, by T. W. Rhys Davids, M. A., Ph. D. $1.00. Postage, 6 cents. 
A brief, standard work. [•W' ''' ' ^' ^y 
19. The Light of Asia and the Light of the World. A Comparison of the 
Legend, the Doctrine, and the Ethics of the Buddha with the Story, the 
Doctrine, and the Ethics of Christ, by S. H. Kellogg, D. D. 1885. $2.00. 
Postage, t3 cents. 

A careful comparison of Buddhism and Christianity. 



209 

(e) Biographies Covering the World-Field. 

20. Pioneers and Founders, or, Recent Workers in the Mission Field, by 

Charlotte M. Yonge. 1871. $1.75. Postage, 9 cents. 

Concise and graphic biographies of John Eliot, David Brainerd, Christian 
F. Schwarz, Henry Martyn, William Carey, and John Marshman, the Judson 
Family, three Bishops of Calcutta, Samuel Marsden, John Williams, Allen 
Gardiner, and Charles Frederick Mackenzie. 

21. American Heroes on Mission Fields. Brief Missionary Biographies, 

edited by Rev. H. C. Haydn, D.D. i8go. $1.25. Postage, 12 cents. 

Brief biographies of thirteen missionaries — eight of them located in 
Turkey and Persia : Mrs. Clara Gray Schaufifler, Henry Sergeant West, M.D., 
David Tappan Stoddard, Asahel Grant, M.D., William Goodell, Titus Coan, 
H. G. O. Dwight, S. Wells Williams, Elijah Coleman Bridgman, Miss Julia A. 
Rappleye, Adoniram Judson, William G. Schauffler, and John Eliot. 

22. Master Missionaries. Chapters in Pioneer Effort throughout the World, by 

Alex. Hay Japp, LL. D. 1880. $1.00. Postage, 8 cents. 

Brief biographies of Jas. Oglethorpe, David Zeisberger, Samuel Hebich, 
William Elmslie, Geo. W. Walker, Robert Moffat, Dr. Jas. Stewart, Dr. Wm. 
Black, John Coleridge Patteson, and John G. Fee. 

( f ) Medical Missions. 

23. Medical Missions, Their Place and Power, by John Lowe, F.R.C.S.E. 1890. 

$1.50. Postage, II cents. 

The standard work on medical missions. 

24. The Healer-Preacher. Sketches and Incidents of Medical Mission Work, 

by George Saunders, M.D., C.B. 1884. $1.25. Postage, 10 cents. 

An account of medical mission work in London, containing many interest- 
ing incidents. 

25. Medical Work of the Woman's Foreign Missionary Society, Methodist 

Episcopal Church, by Mrs. J. T. Gracey. 1888. $0.50. Postage, 7 cents. 
In India, China, Japan, and Korea. 

(g) Miscellaneous Works. 

v'26. Foreign Missions, Their Place in the Pastorate, in Prayer, in Conferences. 
Ten Lectures by Augustus C. Thompson, D.D. 1889. iSi.75. Postage, 
13 cents. 

Especially useful to the home pastor. Highly commended. 

j/27. Missionary Addresses, by Rev. J. M. Thobum, D.D. 1888. $0.70. Post- 
age, 7 cents. 

Contains much wise and helpful advice for the prospective missionary. 

28. Women of the Orient. An Account of the Religious, Intellectual, and 

Social Condition of Women in Japan, China, India, Egypt, Syria, and Turkey, 

by Rev. Ross C. Houghton, A.M. 1877. $1.25. Postage, 12 cents. 

A most entertaining book. Fully illustrated. 

i.^'29. The Ely Volume, or, The Contributions of our Foreign Missions to Science 

and Human Well-being, by Thomas Laurie, D.D. 1881. ji2.oo. Postage, 

22 cents. y^pl^.^'^V 

An exhaustive treatise on the contributions of A. B. C. F. M. Missionaries 
to science. Full of useful facts and illustrations. 



210 

30. Modern Missions and Culture ; Their Mutual Relations, by Dr. Gustav 

Wameck. Translated by Thomas Smith, D. D. 1882. I1.35. Postagej 
13 cents. 

A good book for all desiring a broad, philosophical view of missionary 
effort. 

31. The Indo-British Opium Trade and its Effect. A Recess Study, by 

Theodore Christlieb, D. D., Ph.D. Translated by David B. Croom, M. A. 
1879. $0.70. Postage, 4 cents. 

A brief, incisive resume of this deadly traffic down to 1879. 

32. Maritime Discovery and Christian Missions, Considered in their Mutual 

Relations, by John Campbell. 1840. I1.75. Postage, 18 cents. 
Deals largely with the South Sea Islands. 
^^33. Memoirs of Rev. David Brainerd, edited by J. M. Sherwood, D.D. 1884. 
J1.50. Postage, 13 cents. vjp^-T*''^ 1 ii'f- 

Highly recommended for intense spiritual tone. 

II. AFRICA. 

(a) Historical and Descriptive. 

•' 34. The Newr World of Central Africa, with a history of the first Christian 
Mission on the Congo, by Mrs. H. Grattan Guinness. 1890. jSz.oo. Postage, 
17 cents. KIK, Jr5i • 

A graphic description of the Congo Free State, its history, people, etc., 
with a full account of the first twelve years of the Livingstone Inland Mission. 
Very entertaining and recent. 

35. Garenganze, or. Seven Years' Pioneer Mission Work in Central Africa, by 

Fred. S. Arnot. 1889. J1.25. Postage, 10 cents. 

A narration of the thrilling adventures and patient trials of a devoted 
Christian explorer. 

36. The Story of Madagascar, by the Rev. John W. Mears, D.D. 1873. $1.25. 

Postage, 8 cents. 

A full account of the persecution of Christians from 1839-61, with notices 
of earlier and later history down to 1871. 

37. Africa's Mountain Valley, or. The Church in Regent's Town, West Africa, 

by Maria Louisa Charlesworth. J1.50. Postage, 8 cents. 

A most interesting and instructive chapter in the missionary history of 
Africa. 

(b) Biographical. 

38. The Personal Life of David Livingstone, LL. D., D. C. L., chiefly 

from his unpublished journals and correspondence in the possession of his 
family, by William Garden Blaikie, D.D., LL. D. J1.25. Postage, 14 cents. 

Best personal biography of Livingstone. 
^39. David Livingstone. His Labours and His Legacy, by Arthur Montefiore, 
F. R. G. S. $0.75. Postage, 6 cents. (^^sjfci^j 

A brief but comprehensive sketch of his life and labors. 

40. Alexander M. Mackay, Pioneer Missionary of the Church Missionary Society 
to Uganda, by his Sister. 1890. $1.50. Postage, 12 cents. 

One of the most absorbing missionary biographies. Valuable hints on the 
industrial phase of foreign missionary work. 



211 

^ 41. The Lives of Robert and Mary Moffat, by their son, John S. Moffat. 
1888. $1.75. Postage, 15 cents. ti^.IfW ,'^fe'^- 

A well-written story of the trials and successes of missionary life, contain- 
ing inner glimpses of domestic experience and trials. 
42. James Hannington, First Bishop of Eastern Equatorial Africa. A history of 
his life and work, 1847-1885, by E. C. Dawson, M.A., 1886. $1.25. Postage, 
12 cents. 

A vivid sketch of a remarkable active and useful life and a tragic death. 
»<'43. Samuel Crowther, the Slave Boy who became Bishop of the Niger, by 
Jesse Page. 1888. $o.y^. Postage, 6 cents. (M^ I ''") 

A brief and entertaining record of a remarkable life and work. 

III. ALASKA. 

44. Alaska, and Missions of the North Pacific Coast, by Rev. Sheldon Jackson, 

D. D. 1883. $1.50. Postage, 11 cents. 

A profusely illustrated description of Alaska, its people, customs, and 
missions down to 1883. 

45. Life in Alaska. Letters of Mrs. Eugene S. WUlard, edited by her sister, 

Mrs. Eva McClintock. 1884. $1.25. Postage, 9 cents. 

Contains touching glimpses of the trials and joys of missionary life. 

IV. burm;ah. 

46. The Life of Adoniram Judson, by his son, Edward Judson. 1883. $1.50. 

Postage, 17 cents. 

An inspiring and entertaining biography of Burmah's great missionary. 

47. Rivers in the Desert, or. The Great Awakening in Burmah, by the Rev. 

John Baillie. $1.50. Postage, 8 cents. 

A narrative of the wonderful work of God in that country, with memoirs 
of the Judsons and of their fellow-laborers. 

V. CHINA. 

(a) Historical and Descriptive. 

48. The Middle Kingdom. A Survey of the Geography, Government, Literature, 

Social Life, Arts, and History of the Chinese Empire and its Inhabitants, by 
S. Wells Williams, LL. D. Two volumes. 1882. JS9.00. Postage, 50 cents- 
The standard work on China. 

49. China and the Chinese. A General Description of the Country and its 

Inhabitants ; its Civilization and Form of Government ; its Religious and 
Social Institutions ; its Intercourse with other Nations ; and its Present Con- 
dition and Prospects. By the Rev. John L. Nevius, D. D. 1882. $1.50. 
Postage, II cents. 

A thorough presentation of China and its people, with particular reference 
to missions and methods, 
v" 50. In the Far East. Letters from Geraldine Guinness in China, edited by her 
Sister. 1889. Board, $1.00 ; cloth, $1.50. Postage, 12 cents. '^»^)C''' , '^'' 

A most intensely fascinating account of life in China. Graphic descrip- 
tion, tender pathos, and unusual depth of spirituality place this book in the 
very front rank. Handsomely illustrated. 



212 

51. The Dragon, Image, and Demon, or, the Three Religions of China, Con- 

fucianism, Buddhism, and Taoism, by Rev. Hampden C. DuBose. 1886. 
$2.00. Postage, 17 cents. 

Fully illustrated and well arranged. Confined to religions. 

52. The Religions of China. Confucianism and Taoism Described and Com- 

pared with Christianity, by James Legge. 1880. jSi.SO. Postage, 10 cents. 
A work by a recognized authority. 

53. Confucianism and Taouism, by Robert K. Douglas. jSi.oo. Postage, 7 cents. 

Brief but thorough studies of these two systems. 

54. The Chinese Classics. A Translation, by Jas. Legge, D.D. $0.60. Post- 

age, 12 cents. 

Translations of the principal works of Confucius and Mencius. 

55. China, by Robert K. Douglas. 1885. jSi.50, Postage, 13 cents. 

In popular form. Christian missions very briefly noticed. 

56. Among the Mongols, by the Rev. James Gilmour, M. A. 1888. |i.oo. 

Postage, II cents. 

Account of the pioneer travels of a medical missionary in Mongolia. 

(b) Biographical. 

57. Robert Morrison, the Pioneer of Chinese Missions, by William John Town- 

send. I0.75. Postage, 7 cents. 

An interesting sketch of China's pioneer missionary. 

58. Griffith John, Founder of the Hankow Mission, Central China, by William 

Robson. 1889. 1(0.75. Postage, 7 cents. 

A sketch of the life and work of the pioneer missionary to central China. 

VI. OORBA. 

59. Corea, the Hermit Nation. Ancient and Medieval History; Political and 

Social Corea ; Modern and Recent History. By William Elliot Griffis. 1888. 
$2.50. Postage, 20 cents. 

The standard work on Corea. 

60. Corea, Without and Within. Chapters on Corean History, Manners and 

Religion, by William Elliot Grifiis. 1885. $1.25. Postage, 9 cents. 

A popular description of country and people, condensed from foregoing. 

VII. INDIA. 

(a) Historical and Descriptive. 

61. India, Country, People, Missions, by J. T. Gracey, D. D. 1884. jpi.oo. 

Postage, 8 cents. (^<riii , ^^7) 

A brief study of the needs of India and the success of Christianity in 
that country. 

62. A Brief History of the Indian People, by Sir William Wilson Hunter. 

1888. jSi.50. Postage, 6 cents. 

Exceedingly valuable for conciseness and accuracy. 

63. Seven Years in Ceylon. Stories of Mission Life, by Mary and Margaret 

W. Leitch. 1890. $o.ye,. Postage, 11 cents. ^f^t. v-Vji , i^oj 
Richly illustrated and very entertaining. 

64. Hinduism, by Sir Monier M. Williams. jSi.oo. Postage, 6 cents. 

A brief but exhaustive study by the leading authority on Hinduism. 



213 

65. India, by Fannie Roper Feudge. 1880. JS1.50. Postage, 12 cents. 

Very readable, but Christian missions are very briefly noticed. 

66. The Land of the Veda. Being Personal Reminiscences of India, its People, 

Castes, etc., etc., by Rev. William Butler, D.D. 1871. ;$3.5o. Postage, 28 cents. 
Treats of history of Methodist Episcopal missions in India to 1872. Val- 
uable also for narration of events connected with Sepoy Rebellion. 

67. Native Life in South India. Being Sketches of the Social and Religious 

Characteristics of the Hindus, by Rev. Henry Rice. jSi.oo. Postage, 8 cents. 
Brief but comprehensive. 

68. A Woman's Talks About India, or, The Domestic Habits and Customs of 

the People, by Harriet G. Brittain. 1880. $0.90. Postage, 6 cents. 
Intended especially for children. 

69. Indian Missionary Manual. Hints to Young Missionaries to India, compiled 

by John Murdoch, LL. D. 1889. iS2.oo. Postage, 12 cents. 

Valuable hints to missionaries to India on a great variety of subjects, but 
useful to all missionaries to tropical climates. 

(b) Biographical. 

70. The Life of William Carey, D. D., Shoemaker and Missionary, by George 

Smith, LL. D. 1885. JS3.00. Postage, 15 cents. 

An exceedingly interesting and exhaustive memoir. 
^71. William Carey, The Shoemaker who became "The Father and Founder of 
Modem Missions," by John Brown Myers. 1887. JiSo.75. Postage, 7 cents. 
A brief but comprehensive view of Carey's life and work. (/H" Z*"") 

72. The Life of Alexander Duff, D.D., LL. D., by George Smith, LL. D. 

Two volumes in one. 1879. iS2.oo. Postage, 17 cents. 

A well written and complete life of the great missionary teacher. 

73. My Missionary Apprenticeship, by Rev. J. M. Thobum, D. D. 1884. 

$1.50. Postage, 10 cents. 

A most instructive and interesting account of missionary experience 
in India. 

VIII. JAPAN. 

74. The Mikado's Empire. History of Japan from 660 B. C. to 1872 A. D., 

and Personal Experiences, Observations, and Studies in Japan, 1870-1874, by 
William Elliot GriiBs, A. M. With supplementary chapters. 1890. JS4.00. 
Postage, 23 cents. 

A standard work on Japan. 

75. The Sunrise Kingdom, or, Life and Scenes in Japan, and Woman's Work 

for Woman there, by Mrs. Julia D. Carrothers. 1879. JS2.00. Postage, 13 cents. 
A familiar description of native life in Japan by a missionary. 

76. Unbeaten Tracks in Japan. An account of Travels on Horseback in the 

Interior, by Isabella L. Bird. Two volumes in one. 1880. $2.y:i. Postage, 
18 cents. 

Graphic narration of travels in Japan. 

77. A Budget of Letters from Japan. Reminiscences of Work and Travel in 

Japan, by Arthur Collins Maclay, A.M., LL.B. 1888. $2.00. Postage, 1 5 cents. 
Experiences and observations of an American teacher in government 
schools from 1873-1878. 



214 

78. The Land of the Morning. An Account of Japan and its People based on 

Four Years' Residence in that Country, by William Gray Dixon. 1881. 
$2.00. Postage, 17 cents. 

A very readable book, though not recent. 

IX. IVIEXICO. 

79. The Mexican Guide, by Thos. A. Janvier. 1890. $2.50. Postage, 10 cents. 

A standard repository of information on Mexico, though not containing 
much on missions. 

X. FBRSIA. 

80. Historical and Descriptive Account of Persia from the Earliest Times, by 

Jas. B. Fraser. 1833. )fo.75. Postage, 6 cents. 

A concise but thorough study, down to 1833, with chapter on Afghanistan. 

81. Persia and the Persians, by S. G. W. Benjamin. Illustrated. 1886. 

$4.00. Postage, 34 cents. 

An account of this country as seen and studied by the United States 
Minister to Persia. 

82. Persia, the Land of the Imams, by Rev. James Bassett. 1886. $1.50. 

Postage, 12 cents. 

An account of missionary travels during eleven years' residence in Persia. 

83. Faith Working by Love, as Exemplified in the Life of Fidelia Fiske, by 

D. S. Fiske. 1868. $1.50. Postage, 11 cents. 

A beautiful and inspiring picture of woman's work as seen in the life 
of a most devoted woman. 



XI. SIAIvI. 

84. Siam, or, the Heart of Farther India, by Mary Lovina Cort. 1886. $1.00. 

Postage, II cents. 

An entertaining and comprehensive sketch of the people and customs of 
Siam, with an account of the missions. 

85. Siam and Laos, as seen by our American Missionaries. 1884. $1.85. 

Postage, 13 cents. 

Interesting papers on Siam and phases of missionary work in it. Illustrated. 



XII. SOUTH ANIERIOA. 

86. The Capitals of Spanish America, by William Eleroy Curtis, late Com- 

missioner from the United States to the Governments of Central and South 
America. 1888. $3.50. Postage, 26 cents. 

Very interesting and instructive. Fully illustrated. 

87. Brazil, by C. C. Andrews. 1890. $1.50. Postage, 12 cents. 

Contains much recent information, though not treating missions ex- 
haustively. 



215 

XIII. SOUTH SEA. ISLANDS 

(a) Historical and Descriptive. 

88. Missionary Enterprise in the South Sea Islands, by John WUliams. 
i88S. $1.00. Postage, lo cents. 

The story of the wonderful work of the martyr-missionary, John Williams, 
among the South Sea Islands, 1817-39. 

V'sg. The New Hebrides and Christian Missions, by Robert Steel, D. D. 
1880. $2.75. Postage, 13 cents. (/)[>>(> )tv .•iiri-) 

A comprehensive view of missions to these Islands, with a sketch of 
the Labor Traffic. 

90. Among the Cannibals of New Guinea, by Rev. S. McFarlane, LL. D., 

F. R. G. S. 1888. jSo.75. Postage, 6 cents. 

A graphic account of the early history of the New Guinea Mission of the 
London Missionary Society, 1871-88. 

91. At Home in Fiji, by Miss C. F. Gordon Gumming. 1878. j!i.25. Postage, 

1 1 cents. 

A record of life in Fiji, with considerable mention of missionary work. 

92. Six Months Among the Palm Groves, Coral Reefs, and Volcanoes of 

the Sandwich Islands, by Isabella L. Bird. 1876. $2.50. Postage, 10 cents. 
A vivid description of travel and adventure. 

(b) Biographical. 

93. John G. Paton, Missionary to the New Hebrides. An Autobiography, edited 

by his Brother. Two volumes. 1889. tyoo. Postage, 21 cents. 

" The most fascinating narrative of missionary adventure and heroism and 
success that we have ever met." — A. T. Pierson. 

94. James Calvert, or, From Dark to Dawn in Fiji, by R. Vernon. 1890. $0.75. 

Postage, 7 cents. 

A brief but graphic account of the work of missions in Fiji from 1835 to 
the present. Fully illustrated. 

95. Bishop Patteson, the Martyr of Melanesia, by Jesse Page. $0.7 5. Postage, 

7 cents. 

The record of a noble student-life, an active young manhood, and a 
tragic death. 

96. Life of John Coleridge Patteson, Missionary Bishop of the Melanesian 

Islands, by Charlotte Mary Yonge. Two volumes. 1873. $5.00. Postage, 
20 cents. 

An interesting and complete memoir. 

97. Memoir of the Life and Episcopate of George Augustus Selwyn, D.D., 

Bishop of New Zealand, 1841-69, and Lichfield, 1867-78, by the Rev. H. W. 
Tucker, M.A. Two volumes. 1879. $5.00. Postage, 17 cents. 
A narrative of the Christianization of New Zealand. 

y'gS. John Williams, the Martyr Missionary of Polynesia, by Rev. Jas. J. Ellis. 
1889. I0.75. Postage, 7 cents. (■H-*'^V 

A brief but interesting biography of this pioneer missionary. 



216 

XIV. TURKEY. 

(a) Historical and Descriptive. 

gg. Among the Turks, by Cyrus Hamlin. 1877. $1.50. Postage, 10 cents. 

Interesting observations during thirty-five years' residence in Constantino- 
ple as a missionary. 

100. The Romance of Missions, or, Inside View of Life and Labor in the Land 

of Ararat, by Maria A. West. 1876. jSi.50. Postage, 13 cents. 

Very entertaining ; with glimpses of the peculiar trials and joys of 
missionary life. 

loi. The Women of the Arabs, with a Chapter for Children, by Rev. Henry 
Harris Jessup, D.D. 1873. iiSi.25. Postage, 10 cents. 

An account of work for Woman in Syria to 1873, with a most interesting 
chapter for children. 

102. Ten Years on the Euphrates, or, Primitive Missionary Policy Illustrated, 
by Rev. C. H. Wheeler. 1868. jSi.25. Postage, 8 cents. 

Labors in Harpoot, Turkey, and vicinity. 

(b) Biographical. 

103. Forty Years in the Turkish Empire, or. Memoirs of Rev. William 
Goodell, D.D., by E. D. G. Prime, D.D. 1875. S'-SO. Postage, 11 cents. 

Full of interesting incidents, and especially helpful in understanding pres- 
ent status of Christian Work in the Turkish Empire. 

104. Autobiography of William G. SchaufBer, for Forty-nine Years a Mis- 
sionary in the Orient, edited by his Sons. 1887. jSi.oo. Postage, II cents. 

A most readable narrative of the varied experiences of this remark- 
able man. ^^_^ ^ "^ ^t^u^,^ <(2fyk.^>t3XZ:;^ "-^ ^^S^ 
'^^^^^LIBR ARIES. 

While it is hoped that each purchaser will make his own selection, yet, as few 
have the books at hand for examination, the following collections are suggested for 
those who wish to order in this way. 

Should any wish to omit any books suggested, others of equal value will be 
inserted at their request. 

The Volunteer's $15 Missionary Library. Includes Nos. 2, 6, 12, 27, 38, 40, 

49, 50, 61, 70, 73, 93, and 100. Sent expressage paid. 

The Young People's $10 Missionary Library. Includes Nos. 6, 14, 28, 39, 
40, 49, 50, 61, 63, 71, and 94. Sent expressage paid. 

The Minister's $15 Missionary Library. Includes Nos. 2, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13, 26, 

28, 38, 46, 49, 61, and 93. Sent expressage paid. 

The College $15 Missionary Library. Includes Nos. 2, 6, 12, 28, 34, 40, 49, 
52, 61, 62, 74, 84, and 94. Sent expressage paid. 

The College $35 Missionary Library. Includes Nos. 2, 6, 12, i6, 18, 23, 28, 

29. 34. 38. 40. 46, 48, 50, 59, 61, 62, 64, 70, 74, 84, 86, and 93. Sent express" 
age paid. 



217 

The College $50 Missionary Library. Includes, in addition to the $35 library, 
Nos. I, 20, 49, Sg, and 99. Sent expressage paid. 

Send money by postal or express money order, check or draft. By no means 
send silver, as it is very liable to be lost, and endangers all mail sent to the same 
address. Address all communications to 

WALTER J. CLARK, , ,^ /,j,_e^ ,i^ . , 

n~ TlmTTT TTriTTniT, n ■ 

^ferr^Ynrlr City. J 

Student Volunteer Series. 

No. I. The American Student Uprising, by John R. Mott. Exhausted; but 
its place temporarily supplied by " The Report of the Executive Committee 
presented at the International Convention at Cleveland." '>Lec^£,.tct5:«^ ( J^^-^-^-^j^ ) ]f^i- 

No. 2. Shall I Go ? by Miss Grace E. WUder. Fifth edition exhausted. 

No. 3. The Volunteer Pledge, by Robert P. Wilder. 

No. 4. The Volunteer Band, by Robert E. Speer. 

No. 5. Not yet issued. 

No. 6. Not yet issued. 

No. 7. The World's Need, by John N. Forman. Almost exhausted. 

No. 8. An Appeal from China, by Miss Geraldine Guinness. Almost exhausted. 

No. 9. An Appeal from India, by Miss Grace E. Wilder. 

No. 10. An Appeal to Christian Medical Students, by W. J. Wanless. 

No. II. An Appeal from Japan, by C. A. Clark. 

Nlission.ary Tracts. 

In addition to the Student Volunteer Series, the following missionary tracts are 
commended, and can be obtained from the Student Volunteer Movement office. 

A Bird's Eye View of the Foreign Mission Field. Second edition. 10 cents 
per dozen ; 65 cents per hundred. 

Facts on Foreign Missions. (Revised.) Compiled by W. J. Wanless, M. D. 
2 cents ; 20 cents per dozen ; $1 per hundred. 

A Mute Appeal on Behalf of Foreign Missions, with diagram exhibiting the 
actual and relative numbers of mankind classified according to their religion. 
30 cents per hundred. 

Trifling with a Great Trust, with diagram illustrating the annual expenditures 
in the United States compared with gifts to foreign missions. 30 cents 
per hundred. 

A Comparative View of Christian Work in the Home and Foreign Fields, 
with diagrams. 30 cents per hundred. 

Medical Missions. Facts and Testimonies to their Value and Success, compiled 
by W. J. Wanless, M. D. 



218 

American IVIissionary Periodicals. 

A few of the leading Missionary Magazines and Periodicals are given, trusting 
that every Volunteer will subscribe for one or more. The list might easily be 
quadrupled. All are monthly. 

Aj The Missionary Reviev? of the World, $2 ; $1 to Volunteers. Funk & Wag- 
nails, 18 and 20 Astor Place, New York City. [Undenominational.] 

The Missionary Echo, 50 cents ; to students and ministers, 25 cents. The 
Willard Tract Depository, Yonge and Temperance Streets, Toronto, Ont. 
[Undenominational.] 

The Medical Missionary Record, $1 ; to students at reduced rates. Geo. D. 
Dowkontt, M.D., ir8 East 45th Street, New York City. [Undenominational.] 

^^ China's Millions, 50 cents. 30 Shuter Street, Toronto, Ont. With American 
Supplement. [China Inland Mission.] 

11 The Baptist Missionary Magazine, $1. Tremont Temple, Boston, Mass. 
' [Bap.] 

yThe Missionary Herald, $1. Congregational House, i Somerset Street, Boston, 
Mass. [Cong.] 

S«The Gospel in All Lands, )Ji.50. Hunt & Eaton, 150 Fifth Avenue, New 
York City. [M. E.] 

)(The Spirit of Missions, $1. 22 Bible House, New York City. [P. E.] 

The Church at Home and Abroad, $1. Presbyterian Board of Publication and 
Sunday School Work, 1334 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa. [Pres. North.] 

The Missionary, $1. Whittet & Shepperson, looi Main Street, Richmond, Va. 
[Pres. South.] 



CC-T^. ir^r.-.'.^..-^ J^-'^-*.'^ *7y -fcfcsT ^■'y^M::^..^x..fr^ 



~^-w;_^.~^-('Ai.,-, 01 



' tr»\_Ci-.^^^ l\\^^_ .^I'C 



'^' ->"^Jz ''.~^,..., -..^ )', 



6 



<r>»\- 



INDEX TO SPEAKERS. 





PAOE. 




PAGE. 


Allis, Jno. M. 




151 


Laffin, C. J. . 




157 


Bissell, H. G. . 




IW 


Lambeth, W. R. . . . 


C6, 


154 


Capron, Mrs. S. B. 63, 


100, 103, 


146 


Mason, G. L 




151 


Chamberlain, Geo. W. 


. 103, 


127 


McBurney, K. E. 




93 


Child, Miss Abbie B. 




111 


McLean, A. . . 




57 


Clark, "Walter J. . 




36 


Morse, Richard C. . . 




38 


Cobb, H. N. . 




56 


Mott, John R. . 


• 7, 21, 


24 


Coldren, M. J. 




149 


Murdock, J. N. 


. . 45, 


104 


Cossum, W. H. 


. . 42, 


185 


Nevius, Jno. L. . . 


. 98, 


158 


Cushing, Mrs. J. N. . 




157 


Newton, Miss Ella 3. 




157 


Dowkontt, Geo. D. . 




89 


Peck,l J. 0. 




51 


Dunn, Miss Nettie 


21, 110, 


184 


Pierson, A. T. . 




81 


Forman, Henry 


. 62, 91, 


155 


Sayford, S. M. . 


. 122, 


181 


Fuller, Mrs. Jennie 


. . 65, 


152 


Soholl, Geo. 




58 


Gates, C. F. . 


102, 


147 


Shefaeld, Mrs. D. Z. . 




152 


Goodman, F. S. 


. 104, 


183 


Sinclair, J. A. . 




178 


Gordon, A. J. 


• v, 


69 


Slomans, Wm. 




176 


Gracey, J. T. 




159 


Smith, Judson 




134 


Graham, J. P. . . 




148 


Smith, |Wm. Walter . . 




104 


Gulick, Luther . 




116 


Speer, Eobt. E. 39, 


73, 143, 


185 


Harris, H. H. 




60 


Steven, F. A. 


. 49, 


153 


Haskell, E. B. 




106 


Steven, Mrs. F. A. 




126 


Hayes, J. N. . 




154 


Sutherland, Alex. 




54 


Helms, E. E. 




177 


Taylor, J. L. 


• 7, 


182 


Howard, Miss Meta 




154 


Waterbury, Mrs. N. M. 




113 


Ibuka, Kajinosuke . 




175 


Wilder, Geo. A. 




156 


Jones, J. P. 


68, 


147 


Wilder, Robt. P. . 7, 33, 


61, 107, 


161 


Kyle, J. M. 




96 


Winsor, R. 




150 






j'L'V'L/C (pXxMyh>^u£dZ<A^jxS UyUy)r-£MlZ(/\yyj- 



j 



