286.1757 

B22m 
1859 


MINUTES 


OF  THE 


THIRTY-NINTH  ANNIVERSARY 


OF  THE 


STATE  CONVENTION 


OF  THE 


a 


HELD  AT 


SUMTER,  JULY  29m— AUGUST  1st,  1859. 

TOGETHER  WITH 

AN  ABSTRACT  OF  THE  PROCEEDINGS 

OF  THE 

BOARD  OP  TRUSTEES  OP  FURMAN  UNIVERSITY, 

HELD  AT  THE  SAME  TIME  AND  PLACE. 


COLUMBIA,  S.  C: 

SOUTHERN  GUABDIAN  STEAM  PRESS. 

1859. 


»  « 


MINUTES 

OF  THE 

THIRTY-NINTH  ANNIVERSARY 

OF  THE 

STATE  CONVENTION 

OF  THE 

/ 

BAPTIST  DENOMINATION  IN  S.  C, 

HELD  AT 

SUMTEK,  JULY  29th — AUGUST  1st,  1859. 

TOGETHER  WITH 

AN  ABSTRACT  OF  THE  PROCEEDINGS 

OF  THE 

BOARD  OF  TRUSTEES  OP  FURMAN  UNIVERSITY, 

HELD  AT  THE  SAME  TIME  AND  PLACE. 


COLUMBIA,  S.  C. : 


SOUTHERN  GUAEDIAN  STEAM  PRESS. 

1859. 


MINUTES 


 :  1 

Friday,  July.  29,  1859. 

The  introductory  sermon  was  preached  at  10  £  A.  M.,  by 
Eev.  Dr.  J.  C.  Furman,  from  Acts  9  : 31,  after  which  the  Con- 
vention met,  and  was  called  to  order  by  the  President.  The 
credentials  of  delegates  were  then  called  for,  and  the  following 
names  enrolled  : 

Charleston  Association— E.  T.  Winkler,  J.  K.  Mendenhall, 
I.  Nicholes,  H.  W.  Mahoney,  K  Graham,  A.  T.  Latta,  T. 
Mason,  D.  W.  Cuttino,  W.  D.  Kice,  T.  W.  Mellichamp,  J.  J. 
Flemming,  H.  D.  Alexander,  W.  Nettles,  A.  A.  Nettles,  E. 
E.  Stokes,  K.  M.  Eidgell,  J.  L.  Eeynolds,  W.  D.  Beverly, 
John  Scott. 

Edgefield  Association. — J.  M.  Chiles,  D.  D.  Branson,  B. 
M.  Talbird,  W.  P.  Hill. 

Welsh  Neck  Association. — J.  Culpeper,  J.  O.  B.  Dargan, 
T.  P.  Lide,  J.  M.  Timmons,  E.  G.  Edwards,  A.E.  Mclver,  G. 
B.  Bealer,  E.  F.  Whilden,  J.  C.  Phelps,  J.  W.  Burn,  G.  W. 
Mclver,  J.  L.  Hart,  T.  E.  Howie,  F.  J.  Bostick,  E.  F. 
McKaskey. 

Savannah  River  Association. — W.  A.  Lawton,  B.  H. 
Brown,  W.  B.  Carson,  H.  C.  Smart,  A.  J.  Lawton,  A.  D. 
Cohen,  Wm.  Eichards,  H.  D.  Duncan,  I.  L.  Brookes,  J.  S. 
Lawton,  H.  A.  Duncan,  J.  G.  Williams,  G.  W.  Hicks,  W.  J. 
Morcock,  B.  F.  D.  Perry,  J.  D.  Allen,  B.  Saunders,  B. 
W.  Whilden,  Jesse  Miller,  J.  M.  C.  Breaker. 

Tiger  River  Association. — J.  C.  Furman,  J.  G.  Landrum, 
E.  Furman,  C.  H.  Judson. 

Reedy  River  Association. — J.  B.  O'Neall,  J.  J.  Brantly, 
•  W.  Philips,  T.  D.  Gwin. 


4  .  MINUTES. 

Saluda  Association. — A.  Eice. 

Salem  Association. — A.  M.  Cartledge,  R.  R.  Yann,  "W.  H. 
Hartin. 

Bethel  Association. — J.  Gwin. 

Edisto  Association. — Not  represented. 

Charleston  Female  Missionary  Society. — E.  T.  Winkler. 

Broad  Biver  Bible  Society. — Not  represented. 

Young  Men's  Missionary  Society  of  Furman  University. 
C.  W.  Peabody,  P.  T.  Gold. 

Newberry  Church. — W.  H.  Hunt. 

Newberry  District  Bible  Society. — Jno.  B.  Carwile. 

Enoree  Association. — Not  represented. 

Moriah  Association. — P.  Nicholson. 

Twelve  Mile  Association. — Not  represented. 

Barnwell  Association. — D.  H.  Rice,  W.  T.  Saunders,  T.  J. 
Counts,  A.  F.  Free,  C.  C.  Faust. 

Antioch  Bible  Society. — J.  H.  Felder. 

Santee  Bible  Society. — W.  J.  Snider. 

The  Convention  then  proceeded  to  ballot  for  officers,  with 
the  following  result : 

Hon.  J.  B.  O'Neall,  President. 
Rev.  J.  G.  Landrum,  Yice  President. 
Rev.  J.  J.  Brantly,  Secretary. 

Prof.  C.  H.  Judson,  Treasurer,  vice  T.  B.  Roberts, 
resigned. 

The  Convention  then  proceeded  to  business,  after  prayer  by 
Bro.  J.  M.  Chiles. 

On  motion,  resolved,  that  throughout  this  session  the 
Convention  shall  meet  at  9z  A.  M.  and  4  P.  M.,  and  adjourn 
at  1  P.  M.  and  6  P.  M. 

An  application  for  admission  into  the  Convention  was 
presented  from  the  Columbia  Association,  and  on  motion,  the 
application  was  received ;  whereupon  the  delegates  from 
that  body— A.  K.  Durham,  W.  B.  Elkin,  J.  T.  Zealy,  and  J. 
T.  Gwin — received  the  right  hand  of  fellowship,  and  took 
their  seats. 


MINUTES. 


5 


An  invitation  was  extended  by  the  Chair  to  ministers  of 
our  own  denomination  not  delegated  to  this  body ;  to  ministers 
of  other  evangelical  denominations,  and  to  the  representatives 
of  bodies  whose  objects  are  kindred  to  those  of  this  Conven- 
tion, to  take  seats  and  participate  in  the  deliberations  ; 
whereupon  Rev.  M.  T.  Sumner,  Financial  Secretary  of  the 
Domestic  and  Indian  Mission  Board  of  the  Southern  Baptist 
Convention  ;  Rev.  B.  W.  Whilden,  representing  the  Board  of 
Foreign  Missions  of  the  Southern  Baptist  Convention  ;  Rev. 
H.  Hillsman,  Secretary  of  the  Bible  Board  of  the  Southern 
Baptist  Convention  ;  Rev.  E.  H.  Ranney,  of  North  Carolina  ; 
Rev.  J.  F.  Morall,  Messenger  of  the  Georgia  State  Conven- 
tion, and  Rev.  L.  Dupre  accepted  the  invitation. 

The  committee  on  preaching  was  appointed  in  advance  of 
the  regular  appointments,  as  follows  :  the  Pastor  and  Deacons 
of  Sumter  Church,  and  J.  B.  Carwile,  T.  P.  Lide,  W.  J. 
Snider. 

The  Convention  then  went  into  recess,  pursuant  to  resolu- 
tion, until  4  P.  M. 


Friday — Afternoon  Session. 

The  Convention  met,  and  was  called  to  order  by  the  Presi- 
dent. 

The  following  resolution  was  adopted  : 

Whereas,  This  week  has  been  recommended  by  the  late  Southern  Baptist  Conven- 
tion as  a  season  of  special  prayer  for  the  outpouring  of  the  Holy  Spirit  on  the  na- 
tions of  earth, 

Resolved,  That  daily  meetings  for  prayer,  for  this  special  object,  be  held,  to 
continue  a  half  hour,  commencing  at  9%  A.  M.,  during  the  continuance  of  this 
session. 

The  Treasurer's  report  was  read,  and  referred  to  the  Com- 
mittee on  Accounts. 

The  Standing  Committees  were  announced  by  the  Chair, 
as  follows : 


6 


MINUTES. 


On  time  and  place  of  next  meeting,  and  persons  to  perform 
stated  religious  services. — J.  O.  B.  Dargan,  A.  Rice,  J.  C. 
Phelps,  C.  H.  Judson,  W.  H.  Hunt. 

On  Accounts.— J.  B.  Carwile,  D.  H.  Rice,  W.  B.  Elkin, 
"W".  A.  Lawton,  J.  H.  Felder. 

On  nomination  of  Board  of  Agents. — H.  D.  Duncan,  J. 
K.  Mendenhall,  R.  G.  Edwards,  B.  H.  Brown,  T.  Mason. 

On  preparing  list  of  Ministers  and  their  post  offices. — I. 
L.  Brookes,  T.  P.  Lide,  A.  J.  Lawton,  A.  M.  Cartledge,  "W. 
B.  Carson. 

On  notice  of  deceased  ministers. — J.  G.  Landrum,  J.  M. 
Chiles,  E.  T.  Winkler,  A.  D.  Cohen. 

On  minutes  and  letters  of  corresponding  bodies. — J.  C. 
Furman,  B.  W.  Whilden,  J.  Culpeper,  I.  Nicholes,  J.  T. 
Zealy. 

Bro.  I.  L.  Brookes  stated  that  he  was  ready  to  hand  over 
to  the  Convention  the  legacy  of  David  M.  Dunbar,  and  was 
instructed  to  pay  it  into  the  hands  of  the  Treasurer. 

Resolved,  That  the  Secretary  of  the  Convention  prepare  and  publish  an  abstract 
from  all  the  Associations  in  the  State,  embracing  the  time  and  place  of  next  meet- 
ing, names  of  moderators  and  clerks,  amount  of  moneys  sent  up  for  various  purposes, 
number  of  members,  additions,  &c,  and  such  other  information  as  maybe  desirable. 

The  Convention  then  adjourned,  after  prayer  by  Bro.  H.  D. 
Duncan,  to  meet  at  9£  to-morrow  morning. 


Saturday,  July  30 — Morning  Session. 

The  Convention  met,  the  President  being  in  the  Chair. 
The  minutes  of  yesterday  were  read,  and  then  an  half  hour 
was  spent  in  prayer  for  missions,  in  pursuance  of  the  resolu- 
tion of  yesterday. 

The  report  of  the  committee  to  nominate  the  Board  of 
Agents,  was  submitted  and  concurred  in,  and  will  be  found 
under  head  of  Reports — No.  1. 


MINUTES. 


7 


The  committee  on  accounts  submitted  their  report ;  which 
was  concurred  in,  and  will  be  found  under  head  of  Keports — 
No.  2. 

The  committee  on  preparing  a  lis.t  of  ministers,  submitted 
their  report,  the  consideration  of  which  was  suspended  for  the 
special  order. 

The  report  of  the  Bible  and  Mission  Board,  which,  by- 
resolution  of  last  Convention,  was  made  the  special  order  for 
10i  o'clock,  was  submitted ;  and,  after  several  addresses,  and 
some  discussion,  was  concurred  in,  and  will  be  found  under 
head  of  Keports — No.  3. 

The  special  committee,  appointed  to  manage  the  Entzmin- 
ger  fund,  submitted  their  report,  which  was  ordered  to  be 
printed,  and  will  be  found  under  head  of  Reports — No.  4. 

The  committee  on  preaching  reported  arrangements  for 
religious  services. 

The  Convention  then  receded  from  business,  to  meet  at  4: 
this  afternoon,  in  the  Court  House. 


Saturday — Afternoon  Session. 

The  Convention  met,  and  was  called  to  order  by  the 
President. 

The  consideration  of  the  report  of  the  committee  on  pre- 
paring a  list  of  ministers,  was  resumed,  and  again  suspended 
for  the  special  order. 

The  report  of  the  Sunday  School  and  Colportage  Board, 
which  was  made  the  special  order  for  o'clock,  was  submit- 
ted, and,  after  addresses  and  discussion,  was  adopted  by  the 
following  resolution : 

Besolved,  That  the  report  be  adopted,  with  the  understanding  that  the  Board 
appoint  an  agent,  and  provide  for  his  salary. 

For  report,  see  under  head  of  Eeports — No.  5. 

By  leave  of  the  Convention,  a  meeting  of  the  Southern 


8 


MINUTES. 


Baptist  Publication  Society  was  arranged  for,  to  immediately 
follow  the  special  order  of  Monday  morning. 

"With  permission  of  the  Convention,  Eev.  T.  D.  Gwin  made 
an  appeal  in  behalf  of  the  Williamston  Church. 

The  committee  on  time  and  place  of  next  meeting,  and 
persons  to  preach  the  stated  sermons,  submitted  their  report, 
which  was  agreed  to,  as  follows : 

The  committee  recommend  Greenville  as  the  place,  and  Friday  before  the  last 
Saturday  in  July,  1860,  as  the  time.  Rev.  J.  J.  Brantly  to  preach  the  Introductory 
Sermon;  Rev.  J.  R.  Kendrick,  his  alternate.  Rev.  E.  T.  Winkler  to  preach  the 
Charity  Sermon ;  Rev.  G.  B.  Bealer,  his  alternate. 

The  Convention  then  adjourned,  after  prayer  by  Bro.  J.  G. 
Landrum,  to  meet  on  Monday,  at  9s  A.  M.,  in  the  Baptist 
Church. 

On  Saturday  night,  a  mass  meeting,  in  behalf  of  the  cause 
of  education,  was  held  in  the  Baptist  Church.  Interesting 
addresses  were  delivered  by  Bev.  H.  A.  Duncan,  President 
of  the  Female  College,  Hon.  J.  B.  O'Neall,  and  Kev.  Dr. 
[Reynolds,  of  the  South  Carolina  College. 


Sunday,  July  31. 

The  charity  sermon  was  preached  in  the  forenoon,  in  the 
Baptist  Church,  by  Bev.  B.  Furman,  in  the  absence  of  Bev. 
Dr.  Boyce,  after  which  the  usual  collection  was  made.  In 
the  afternoon,  Bev.  H.  Hillsman,  of  Tenn.,  preached,  and  at 
night,  the  ordination  services  of  Bev.  B.  Norton  took  place: 
The  Presbytery  consisting  of  Bevs.  E.  T.  Winkler,  G.  B. 
Bealer,  J.  G.  Landrum,  J.  C.  Furman,  and  J.  O.  B.  Dargan. 
The  sermon  was  preached  by  Bev.  E.  T.  Winkler ;  the 
ordaining  prayer  offered  by  Bev.  «T.  G.  Landrum  ;  the  charge 
by  Bev.  G.  B.  Bealer,  and  the  Bible  presented  by  Bev.  Dr. 
Furman. 

The  pulpits  of  the  Presbyterian  and  Methodist  Churches 
were  occupied  during  the  day  by  members  of  the  Convention ; 
and  there  was  also  preaching  in  the  Court  House. 


MINUTES. 


0 


Monday,  August  1 — Morning  Session. 

The  Convention  assembled,  and  was  called  to  order  by  the 
President.    An  half  hour  was  spent  in  prayer  for  missions. 

.Reports  of  committees  being  called  for,  the  report  of  the 
Committee  on  Minutes  and  Letters  of  corresponding  bodies, 
wa^  presented  and  concurred  in,  and  will  be  found  under 
head  of  Reports — No.  6. 

The  report  of  Committee  on  Deceased  Ministers,  was  sub- 
mitted, and  concurred  in,  and  will  be  found  under  head  of 
Reports — No.  7. 

On  motion,  the  Boards  of  the  Convention  were  re-appointed 
with  the  addition  of  Prof.  Boyce  as  one  of  the  managers  of 
the  Education  Board,  and  the  appointment  of  G.  F.  Townes, 
Esq.,  as  Treasurer,  in  place  of  Rev.  R.  Furman,  resigned. 

Ordered,  that  the  legacy  of  D.  M.  Dunbar,  handed  over  to 
the  Treasurer,  be  placed  in  the  Endowment  Fund. 

Ordered,  that  the  collection  made  in  the  Baptist  Church  on 
Sunday  ($80)  be  equally  divided  among  the  following  Boards : 
Foreign  Missions,  Domestic  Missions,  Indian  Mission,  and 
Education ;  and  that  the  collection  ($20)  made  in  the  Meth- 
odist Church,  be  divided  equally  between  ihe  Foreign  and 
Domestic  Mission  Boards. 

At  the  request  of  Rev.  M.  T.  Sumner,  the  members  of  the 
Convention  were  allowed  an  opportunity  of  redeeming  the 
pledge  given  last  year  to  the  Coliseum  Place  Church,  New 
Orleans. 

The  report  of  the  Education  Board  was  submitted  and 
adopted,  and  will  be  found  under  head  of  Reports — No.  8. 

The  President  stated  that  the  Board  of  Trustees  of  Furman 
University  had  appointed  Rev.  J.  E.  Rue  their  agent  for  the 
State,  to  raise  funds  for  the  endowment  of  the  University. 

The  report  of  the  Treasurer  of  the  Education  Board  was 
read,  and  ordered  to  be  printed. 

The  report  of  the  Treasurer  of  the  Bible  and  Mission  Board 
ordered  to  be  printed. 

2 


10 


MINUTES. 


The  following  resolutions  were  adopted  : 

Resolved,  That  the  members  of  this  Convention  be  requested  to  see  that  the 
objects  of  the  Education  Board  be  laid  before  their  respective  churches  aDd  congre- 
gations, and  that,  contributions  for  this  object  be  solicited. 

Resolved,  That  the  present  improved  state  of  the  "  Southern  Baptist,"  as  mani- 
fested in  the  distinct  denominational  features  by  which  it  is  characterized,  and  the 
very  able  manner  in  which  it  is  conducted,  entitle  it  to  the  warmest  regards,  and  the 
increased  patronage  of  Baptists  throughout  the  State. 

Resolved,  That  the  thanks  of  this  Convention  are  due,  and  are  hereby  tendered  to 
the  brethren  and  citizens  of  Sumter,  for  the  kind  hospitalities  which  have  been 
extended  to  its  members;  to  the  churches,  whose  houses  of  worship  have  been 
thrown  open  to  its  religious  services,  and  to  the  railroad  companies,  for  the  accom- 
modation which  they  have  extended. 

The  Convention  then  went  into  recess  to  allow  the  Southern 
Baptist  Publication  Society  an  opportunity  of  holding  their 
annual  meeting. 

On  resuming  business,  the  following  resolution  was  adopted: 

■  Resolved,  That  the  Minutes  of  the  General  Association  of  Virginia  be  placed  in 
•the  hands  of  a  Committee  of  three,  whose  business  it  shall  be  to  examine  said 
minutes,  and  report,  at  the  next  meeting  of  the  Convention,  whether  their  system  o^ 
operations,  if  adopted  by  this  Convention,  would  not  give  it  greatly  more  efficiency 
in  the  promotion  of  our  denominational  principles,  and  in  the  general  diffusion  of 
the  Gospel  of  Christ. 

The  committee  under  this  resolution,  are  Rev.  W.  D.  Rice, 
Eev.  E.  T.  Winkler,  and  J.  J.  Toon. 

On  motion,  the  Convention  then  adjourned,  after  prayer,  to 
meet  at  Greenville,  on  Friday  before  the  last  Saturday  in 
July,  1860. 

JOHN  BELTON  O'KEALL,  President. 
John  J.  Brantly,  Secretary. 


REPORTS. 


1. — REPORT  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  TO  NOMINATE  A  BOARD  OF 
AGENTS. 

Your  Committee  would  recommend  the  following  named  persons  to  constitute  the 
Board  of  Agents: — Rev.  Dr.  Johnson,  Rev.  J.  R.  Kendrick,  Rev.  J.  O.  B.  Dargan> 
Rev.  R.  Furman,  B.  C.  Pressley,  and  the  officers  of  the  Convention. 

H.  D.  DUNCAN",  Chairman. 

The  report  having  been  adopted,  the  above  named  persons  constitute  the  Board 
of  Agents  until  the  next  meeting  of  the  Convention. 


2.  REPORT  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  ON  ACCOUNTS. 

The  Committee  on  Accounts  report  that  they  have  examined  the  accounts  of  T.  B. 
Roberts,  former  Treasurer  of  this  Convention,  and  find  the  additions  correct,  and 
all  payments  properly  vouched. 

Resp  ectfully  submitted, 

JNO.  B.  CAR  WILE,  Chairman. 


3. — REPORT  OF  THE  BIBLE  AND  MISSION  BOARD. 

At  the  last  meeting  of  the  Convention  the  "  Board  of  Missions  "  was  abolished, 
and  so  much  of  its  work  as  relates  to  the  collection  of  statistics,  was  assigned  to  the 
Bible  Board— now  called  the  "  Bible  and  Mission  Board." 

As  the  change  did  not  contemplate  any  active  operations  on  the  part  of  this  Board 
n  the  field  of  Missions,  its  efforts,  as  heretofore,  have  been  confined  to  its  own 
proper  department  of  Bible  distribution ;  while  incidental  labors  have  been  per- 
formed in  the  mission  field,  and  such  facts  and  statistics  concerning  missionary 
operations  have  been  collected,  as  it  was  able  to  gather  from  the  Boards  of  the 
Southern  Baptist  Convention. 

The  measure  of  success  which  has  attended  the  operations  of  this  Board  during 
the  past  year  is  encouraging,  though  we  can  point  to  no  great  results,  we  are  pleased 
to  know  that  something  has  been  done ;  and  we  hope  that  the  report  of  another 
year  will  be  even  more  favorable  than  the  present.  Our  Agent,  Rev.  W.  B.  Elkin, 
has  labored  iu  several  Districts,  to  our  entire  satisfaction,  and  with  good  success 


12 


REPORTS. 


As  the  result  of  his  efforts  some  13  Bible  Societies— auxiliary  to  your  Board— have 
been  organized  during  the  year,  making  with  those  previously  organized,  between 
forty  and  fifty  Societies  in  connexion  with  the  Board,  and  much  interest  in  the  Bible 
cause  has  been  awakened. 

We  regret  to  state  that,  for  reasons  of  a  personal  and  private  nature,  Bro.  Elkin 
declines  serving  the  Board  the  ensuing  year.  So  far,  however,  from  being  dissatis- 
fied with  the  work,  or  discouraged,  he  has  expressed  his  willingness  to  serve  us 
again,  whenever  circumstances  will  allow  him  to  do  so. 

If  it  were  possible  to  do  without  an  agent,  we  would  gladly  dispense  with  the 
services  of  one,  so  that  we  might  apply  the  whole  amount  of  mone}'  contributed  to 
the  proper  object  of  Bible  distribution ;  but  we  do  not  see  how  this  can  be  done. 
If  all  the  societies,  after  being  organized,  would  exert  themselves  to  keep  up  their 
organization,  and  would  remit  their  funds  promptly  to  us,  they  themselves  would  be 
the  best  agents  we  could  have ;  but  all  do  not  do  their  duty.  Some  societies,  after  a 
year's  existence,  are  allowed  to  die  out,  or  to  decline;  moneys  pledged  to  the  Board 
are  not  sent  up,  and  so,  the  employment  of  an  agent  is  absolutely  necessary. 

It  may  be  complained  of  by  some,  that  so  much  of  the  money  contributed  for 
Bible  purposes,  should  have  been  applied  to  the  payment  of  an  agent's  salary  ;  but 
we  judged  that  the  money  so  contributed  was  given  to  the  Bible  cause,  and  that 
any  application  of  it  which  would  make  the  operations  of  the  Board  most  efficient 
would  meet  the  wishes  of  most  of  the  contributors.  If  the  work  of  Bible  distribu- 
tion is  promoted,  as  we  believe  it  is,  by  the  employment  of  a  suitable  agent,  we  think 
the  money  expended  in  this  way,  is  not  a  diversion  of  it  from  the  object  for  which  it 
was  given,  but  is  directly  conducive  to  the  success  of  that  object. 

.From  the  Treasurer's  report,  it  appears  that  the  amount  @f  money  received  by  the 
Board,  since  our  last  annual  report,  and  in  hand  at  that  time,  is  as  follows ; 


Balance  in  hand,  last  report,        ------      $533  98 

Amount  received  during  past  year,   1,103  27 

Making  a  total  of,  $1,637  25 

The  amount  paid  out,  as  per  Treasurer's  report,  for  the  same 

time,  is,  $1,346  65 

Leaving  a  balance  of,  $290  60 


Of  the  amount  reported  as  received  by  your  Board,  a  portion  was  sent,  by  the 
instructions  of  the  contributors,  to  the  Bible  and  Mission  Boards  of  the  Southern 
Baptist  Convention.  Besides  the  amount  actually  received  by  your  Board,  about 
$800  have  been  reported  to  us  as  subscribed  by  various  societies,  but  the  funds  have 
not  yet  been  sent  up.  These  we  hope  to  collect.  Your  Board  contemplates  no 
change  in  the  mode  of  its  operations. 

In  the  department  of  Missions,  the  following  amounts  have  been  reported  to  us  by 
the  Boards  of  the  Southern  Baptist  Convention,  as  contributed  by  the  State  of  South 
Carolina  from  the  1st  of  July,  1858  to  1st  July,  1859 : 

DOMESTIC  AND  INDIAN  MISSION  BOARD. 


For  Domestic  Missions,   $2,744  98 

For  Indian  Missions,     -      --      -      -      --      -  1,285  56 

For  Coliseum  Place  Church,  New  Orleans,      -      -      -  1,427  35 

Making  a  total  of,   $5,457  89 

FOREIGN  MISSION  BOARD. 

%  For  Foreign  Missions,   $4,944  18 

BIBLE  BOARD— NASHVILLE. 

For  Bible  cause,   $283  63 


* 


KErOBTS. 


13 


The  amounts  severally  reported  by  the  above  Boards,  include  what  was  sent  to 
them  by  instruction  through  this  Board. 

The  whole  amount  of  money  contributed  by  the  State  of  South  Carolina  to  the 
Boards  of  the  Southern  Convention,  from  July  1st,  1858  to  July  1st,  1859,  is 
$10,685  70. 

It  is  proper  to  state  that,  although  missionary  labor  did  not  enter  into  the  plan  of 
action  of  the  Board,  our  agent  has  not  confined  himself  within  the  limits  of  his 
agency  proper,  but  of  his  own  choice,  and  with  the  full  concurrence  of  the  Board, 
has  labored  diligently  and  faithfully  as  a  missionary,  in  preaching,  baptising 
visiting  families,  distributing  books,  and  in  the  office  of  an  evangelist  generally. 
He  reports  that,  since  the  last  meeting  of  this  body,  181  persons  have  been  received 
into  the  churches  at  meetings  held  by  him. 

The  number  of  Bibles  and  Testaments  distributed  by  your  Board  during  the 
year,  is  750.  The  "Domestic  and  Indian  Mission  Board"  of  the  Southern  Conven- 
tion report,  that  during  the  past  year  they  have  employed  eight  missionaries  in  the 
State  of  South  Carolina,  at  an  expense  of  $1,550. 

Should  the  societies  already  connected  with  this  Board  contribute  hereafter  in  the 
same  proportion  as  they  have  already  done,  we  shall  have  an  annual  fund  of  up- 
wards of  $2,000  to  operate  with,  which,  in  our  last  report,  we  stated  to  be  the  least 
sum  we  thought  could  be  raised  in  the  whole  State.  With  an  efficient  agent,  and  if 
the  societies  will  do  their  duty,  we  confidently  believe  that  we  shall  have  twice  tha^ 
amount  to  report  next  year. 

JNO.  J.  BRANTLY,  Corresponding  Secretary. 


4.  EEPOET  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  CHAEGED  WITH  THE  MANAGE- 
MENT OF  THE  ENTZMINGEB  MISSIONAET  FUND  FOB  EICHLAND 
DISTEICT. 

Early  this  year,  your  Committee  received  this  fund  from  the  original  Trustee,  Bro. 
J.  V.  Lyles.  In  consequence  of  the  intention  of  the  Convention,  as  expressed  in  a 
Report  at  its  last  session,  to  commit  this  fund  to  the  Columbia  Baptist  Association 
for  management,  your  Committee  have  acted  in  concert  with  the  Missionary  Board 
of  that  body. 

On  the  first  of  January  last  the  Rev.  A.  K.  Durham  was  elected  by  the  Board  just 
mentioned,  as  Missionary  for  Richland  District,  with  the  understanding  that  the 
proceeds  of  the  Entzminger  Fund  should  be  applied  to  his  support.  Since  that  time 
he  has  been  actively  engaged  in  the  work  of  the  Mission — preaching  every  Lord's 
day,  and  Saturday  before.  From  what  we  hear,  your  Committee  believe  that  the 
Missionary  is  highly  esteemed  by  those  to  whom  he  ministers,  and  well  adapted  to 
the  field  whish  he  occupies.  In  the  Winter  and  early  Spring  it  is  impossible  to 
gather  large  audiences  in  the  District  named  above;  and  hence  it  is  that  a  Mission- 
ary accomplishes  but  little  daring  one  half  of  the  year.  But  during  Summer  and 
Fall  the  congregations  become  large.  The  Missionary  feels  the  stimulus.  Laboring 
with  renewed  zeal,  preaching  with  increased  fervor,  and  praying  for  success  with  an 
unyielding  impoitunity — his  heart  is  oftentimes  rejoiced  by  seeing  the  word  of  the 
Lord  prosper  in  his  hands.  It  is  astonishing  to  witness  the  anxiety  of  this  people 
to  hear  Baptist  preaching.  We  are  told  that,  though  the  Methodists  have  several 
laborers  in  this  field,  the  people  will  pass  by  their  places  of  worship,  and  in  crowds 


14 


REPORTS. 


walk  for  miles  to  reach  a  Baptist  meeting-house.  Our  Missionary  has,  generally, 
had  very  large  country  congregations,  and  frequently  his  heart  has  been  cheered  by 
the  tears  of  penitence,  and  the  anxious  inquiries  of  troubled  souls.  We  ought  to 
hare  four  missionaries  in  this  field — then  we  might  meet,  in  some  good  degree,  the 
wants  of  this  people,  and  be  instrumental  in  preparing  many  of  them  for  the  glories 
and  joys  of  the  life  to  come.  Another  missionary,  the  Rev.  W.  B.  Elkin,  has 
recently  been  appointed  to  this  field  by  the  Missionary  Board  of  the  Columbia 
Association.  It  has  seemed  to  your  Committee,  and  we  take  the  liberty  to  make  the 
suggestion  to  your  body,  that  the  Convention  might  accomplish  something  for  the 
destitute  of  the  State,  by  urging  her  constituents  to  meet  more  thoroughly  the 
destitution  prevailing  in  their  respective  bounds. 

The  fund  in  hand  amounts  to  §5,934  25  Tbe  interest  on  this  amount  for  six 
months  ending  July  1st,  is  $218  58.  This  is  due  the  Missionary  for  services  ren- 
dered, and  will  be  handed  to  him  at  an  early  day. 

J.  TAYLOR  ZEALY,  Chairman. 


5.  REPORT    OF  THE  STJNDAY  SCHOOL  AND    COLPORTAGE  BOARD. 

The  Sunday  School  and  Colportage  Board,  located  at  Darlington,  beg  leave  to 
offer  the  following  annual  report ; 

In  the  early  part  of  the  Summer  the  Board  published  and  sent  out  circulars  to  the 
various  churches  throughout  the  State,  asking  for  information  in  regard  to  the 
number  and  condition  of  Sabbath  Schools  among  them,  and,  also,  in  regard  to  the 
work  being  done  in  the  Colportage  department.  They  have  succeeded  in  gathering 
the  subjoined  facts : — In  the  44  schools  heard  from,  there  are  392  teachers,  2,302 
scholars  among  the  whites ;  and  among  the  colored  population  there  are  9  schools, 
with  64  teachers,  and  894  scholars.  From  the  above  number  of  scholars  there  have 
been,  during  the  past  year,  73  conversions.  These  were  from  among  the  whites,  no 
report  having  been  made  on  this  point  in  regard  to  the  blacks.  There  are  in  the 
respective  libraries  of  these  schools,  10,485  volumes. 

It  mil  be  perceived  that  the  above  statement  is  very  limited,  only  a  few  of  the 
churches  having  been  heard  from. 

The  Board  regard  it  as  of  vast  importance  to  ascertain  the  amount  of  labor  which 
is  being  bestowed  upon  this  particular  enterprise  throughout  the  State  ;  and  as  the 
best  means  of  doing  this,  they  would  recommend  the  appointment  of  an  agent,  whose 
duty  it  shall  be  to  visit  every  Association  and  Church  in  the  State,  and  establish 
schools  where  they  do  not  already  exist,  and  where  they  do,  to  endeavor  to  increase 
the  interest  felt  in  them,  if  possible,  until  there  shall  be  no  church  within  our  borders 
without  a  Sabbath  School  in  successful  operation.  Such  an  agent  might  do  a  great 
work,  also,  in  the  furtherance  of  the  interests  of  the  Colportage  system,  which  your 
Board  are  sorry  to  say,  from  the  information  received  in  regard  to  this  su  ^ject,  seems 
to  be  almost  entirely  neglected.  One  or  two  Associations  have  been  mentioned  as 
having  entered  into  this  work,  but  nothing  has  been  said  as  to  the  extent  or  success 
of  their  operations. 

In  the  Association  in  which  your  Board  is  located,  a  Colporteur  has  been  annually 
employed  for  the  last  fifteen  years  or  more,  whose  labors  have  been  crowned  with 
more  than  ordinary  success.  He  has  received  a  salary  of  $200  in  addition  to  the 
amount  of  20  per  cent,  on  the  sales  of  all  books  disposed  of  by  him.   Your  Board 


REPORTS. 


15 


are  of  the  opinion  that  without  a  specific  salary,  nothing  can  be  done  with  certainty 
in  this  work. 

In  conclusion,  your  Board  would  only  say,  that  they  are  deeply  impressed  with 
the  great  importance  of  the  duty  assigned  them  by  the  Convention,  and  will  use  their 
utmost  endeavors  to  discharge  it.  They  hope,  with  the  aid  of  the  Churches,  so  to 
develope  the  wants  of  the  denomination  in  reference  to  these  interesting  departments 
of  Christian  labor,  and  the  best  means  of  supplying  them,  as  hereafter  to  feel  that 
they  have  not  worked  in  vain.j 

GEO.  B.  BE  ALE  R,  Corresponding  Secretary. 


6.  REPORT  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  ON  MINUTES  AND  LETTERS  OF 

CORRESPONDING-  BODIES. 

The  Committee  on  Communications  from  Corresponding  Bodies,  beg  leave  to 
report,  that  the  only  communication  of  the  kind  which  has  come  into  their  hands,  is 
the  minutes  of  the  Baptist  Convention  of  the  State  of  Georgia,  for  the  present  year. 

It  is  gratifying  to  see  the  evidence  which  these  minutes  furnish  of  the  substan- 
tial progress  of  the  Baptist  cause  in  our  sister  State.  The  number  of  members  in 
the  Baptist  Churches  in  the  State,  exclusive  of  such  members  in  border  churches, 
as  have  their  residence  in  other  States,  is  90,303.  Three  male,  and  several  female, 
colleges,  are  "in  successful  operation." 

"  Mercer  University,"  the  most  prominent  among  these  educational  establishments, 
is  now  enjoying  a  larger  patronage  than  ever.  With  real  estate  valued  at  $30,000,  it 
has  an  endowment  of  $125,000,  and  measures  are  in  progress  for  the  increase  of 
this  endowment. 

The  Convention  is  supporting  quite  a  number  of  young  men  who  are  preparing  for 
the  ministry,  and  have  been  giving  aid  to  sons  of  two  of  their  deceased  ministers, 
and  have  made  donations  of  books  to  some  thirteen  indigent  ministers. 

The  claims  of  Missions,  both  Domestic  and  Foreign,  are  receiving  earnest  attention. 
The  report  on  the  subject  of  Missions  is  a  stirring  appeal,  prepared  by  the  hand  of  a 
man  of  God,  deeply  loved  in  South  Carolina — the  field  of  his  earlier  labors — as  he  is 
in  Georgia,  our  venerable  brother  Mallary. 

It  is  to  the  honor  of  our  Georgia  brethren,  that  their  action  inaugurated  the  move 
ment  of  the  Southern  Baptist  Convention,  which  we  trust  will  make  the  current 
year  an  era  memorable  for  a  greatly  increased  contribution  of  Southern  Baptists  to 
this  great  and  holy  cause. 

There  are  other  noticeable  features  in  this  interesting  document,  among  which  is 
the  increased  circulation  and  efficiency  of  their  Denominational  organ — the  "  Chris- 
tian Index." 

J.  C.  FURMAN,  Chairman  Committee. 


7. — REPORT  OF  COMMITTEE  ON  DECEASED  MINISTERS. 

The  Committee  on  Deceased  Ministers  beg  leave  to  present  the  following  report : 
That  since  the  last  meeting  of  this  body,  seven  of  its  ministers  have  been  called  to 
their  final  reward.  We  have  onlv  been  able,  however,  to  procure  a  very  short  and 
imperfect  sketch  of  some  of  them.  As  to  others,  we  are  only  able  to  announce 
their  names,  their  residence,  and  that  they  are  no  more  numbered  with  us  on  earth 


16 


REPORTS. 


The  following  have  been  reported  to  us,  as  having  gone  the  way  of  all  the  earth — 
viz .  Thomas  Curtis,  D.  D.,  James  Kay,  Thos.  Lee,  N.  W.  Walker,  J.  H.  Hill,  Casper 
Staly,  and  J.  A.  Backus. 

The  painful  loss  of  the  first  named  in  this  list,  Dr.  Curtis,  of  Limestone  Springs, 
S.  C,  has  been  not  only  deeply  felt  by  this  Convention,  of  which  he  was  an  able  and 
efficient  member  for  many  years,  but  has  filled  the  hearts  of  very  many  with  profound 
regret  and  deep  sorrow  throughout  the  States  of  this  Union.  He  was  a  native  of  the 
city  of  London,  but  for  many  of  the  last  years  of  his  life,  was  a  resident  citizen  of 
South  Carolina.  Dr.  Curtis  was  extensively  known,  and  preached  the  gospel  of  the 
blessed  God,  with  great  acceptance  and  eminent  ability  wherever  he  went.  As  an 
intellectual  and  literary  man,  he  ranked  among  the  first  of  the  age  in  which  we  live; 
as  an  expounder  of  the  Word  of  God  he  was  seldom  equalled ;  and  was  everywhere 
justly  regarded  an  able  "  minister  of  the  New  Testament  of  our  Lord  and  Saviour 
Jesus  Christ." 

Dr.  Curtis  was  a  Christian  gentleman  of  polished  manners,  and  was  eminently 
fitted  for  the  social  circles  ;  being  a  man  of  deep  and  profound  piety,  his  conversa- 
tions were  always  enriched  with  useful  and  interesting  religious  instructions. 

The  cause  of  Education  found  in  him  a  fast  friend,  and  an  able  advocate.  The 
founding  of  the  justly  celebrated  Female  High  School,  at  Limestone  Springs,  S.  C> 
was  the  crowning  work  of  his  life; 

This  Institution  has  reflected  much  to  his  credit  as  a  man  of  energy  and  forecast, 
and  now  stands  out  in  bold  relief,  a  noble  monument  to  his  memory.  In  the 
melaucholy  event  which  deprives  us  of  the  eminent  services  of  our  brother,  his 
immediate  family,  the  community  in  which  he  resided,  the  church  of  which  he  was 
the  Pastor,  our  general  Zion,  and  this  Convention,  have  sustained  an  irreparable 
loss — but  we  mourn  "  not  as  those  without  hope,"  for  we  feel  assured  that  our 
Father  in  Heaven  has  granted  unto  him  an  "  abundant  entrance  "  into  a  happier  and 
more  glorious  field  of  usefulness  and  of  greatness. 

In  the  Saluda  Association  Brother  James  Kay  has  been  called  from  his  labors  on 
earth  to  his  reward  in  Heaven.  Brother  Kay  labored  in  the  ministry  of  the  Word 
nearly  thirty  years,  and  although  he  was  not  favored  with  a  liberal  education,  yet 
was  he  a  zealous  and  useful  minister,  having  the  confidence  of  his  brethren  and  of 
all  who  knew  him.  He  lived  to  an  advanced  age,  and  died  in  the  faith  of  the  gospel 
and  in  the  hope  of  a  blessed  immortality. 

Rev.  C.  Staley  was  a  native  of  Orangeburg  District,  S.  C.  As  a  man  he  was 
just  and  upright  in  all  his  intercourse  with  mankind.  As  a  Christian,  he  adorned 
the  doctrine  of  God  his  Saviour  in  all  things.  A  faithful  and  laborious  minister  of 
the  New  Testament  for  some  forty  years,  maintaining  to  his  end  an  unblemished 
Christian  character. 

J.  G.  LANDRUM,  Chairman. 


8. — REPORT  OF  THE  EDUCATION  BOARD. 

The  Education  Board  beg  leave  to  submit  the  following  report:  The  success  of 
this  Board  during  the  last  year  has  not  quite  equalled  the  sanguine  expectations  of 
some  of  its  members  ;  yet  your  Board  are  encouraged  to  believe  that  there  are 
indications  of  future  success. 

The  Board  re-organized  in  December  last,  and  resolved  to  make  application  to  all 
the  churches  of  the  State  for  their  co-operation  and  aid  in  this  work.   Nearly  five 


EEPORTS. 


ir 


hundred  circulars  were  sent  to  the  Pastors  and  Clerks  of  the  churches,  requesting 
them  to  lay  this  object  before  their  respective  churches,  and  solicit  contributions  of 
one  cent  a  week  from  each  member  for  this  object,  and  f  jrward  the  amount  thus 
raised  to  the  Treasurer  of  this  Board,  by  the  first  of  May.  Some  twenty  churches 
have  responded  to  this  call,  expressing  their  cordial  sympathy  with  our  effort,  and 
promising  their  co-operation. 

A  large  number,  however,  whose  support  we  confidently  expected,  have  declined 
a  response  to  our  call.  It  is  the  purpose  of  the  Board  to  renew  these  applications 
until  we  can  obtain  some  definite  response. 

The  Treasurer's  report  shows  that  he  has  received  some  $2^9  20. 

As  soou  as  the  Treasury  would  justify  it  the  Board  proceeded  to  the  appointment 
of  a  beneficiary.  They  have  appointed  Brother  L.  Golden,  who  has,  for  several 
years,  been  prosecuting  his  studies  at  the  Furman  University,  much  to  his  own 
credit,  and  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Faculty.  Brother  Golden  was  appointed  last 
year,  by  the  Board  of  Trustees,  a  beneficiary  of  the  McBryde  Fund,  but  that  fund 
has  yielded  him  no  support. 

There  are  other  worthy  young  men  now  needing  aid,  and  we  trust  that  their 
numbers  will  increase  as  our  means  increase;  that  the  churches  will  see  to  it  that 
those  who  have  suitable  gifts  shall  be  encouraged  to  devote  themselves  to  the  work 
of  the  ministry,  and  that,  in  coming  years,  we  shall  be  able  to  report  a  large  number 
of  those  who  are  sustained  by  the  liberality  of  those  churches,  especially,  which 
have  no  beneficiary  of  their  own. 

This  is  not  the  place  to  enlarge  upon  the  importance  of  ministerial  education,  or 
upon  the  duty  of  contributing  our  substance  to  promote  this  object.  Ministers 
should  be  men  of  the  best  and  largest  influence  in  the  ^community  in  which  they 
move.  Whatever,  therefore,  will  enlarge  this  sphere  of  influence,  and  still  keep  it 
pure,  must  be  desirable  in  the  qualifications  of  a  minister.  Hence  there  should  be 
a  large  share  of  practical  common  sense,  that  will  command  respect  from  all  classes  ; 
a  well  cultivated  and  richly  stored  understanding,  such  as  a  proper  education  will 
secure.  It  is  as  vain  to  suppose,  that  God  will  supply  any  of  thos?  deficiencies  in 
the  minds  of  any  whom  he  calls,  as  that  he  will  feed  and  clothe  their  families,  plant 
their  fields  with  grain,  or  fill  their  barns  wiih  plenty^  without  the  use  of  the  ordinary 
means  and  industry. 

The  Board  would  respectfully  urge  the  claims  of  education  upon  the  attention  of 
the  members  of  this  convention,  and  request  them  to  lay  this  object  before  their 
respective  churches  and  associations,  commending  our  object,  and  inviting  their 
co-operation. 

The  Board  believe  that  great  care  and  precaution  are  necessary  to  prevent  the 
funds  from  being  expended  upon  unworthy  beneficiaries.  Nothing,  perhaps,  would 
sooner  destroy  the  confidence  of  the  churches  in  the  efficiency  of  the  Board,  than 
inattention  to  this  matter.    The  Board  therefore  recommend  : 

1st.  Th.it  every  applicant  for  its  aid,  be  required  to  furnish  a  certificate  from  the 
church  of  which  he  is  a  member,  of  bis  g  >od  standing  and  consi-tent  piety,  that  he 
possesses  gifts  for  the  work  of  the  ministry,  and  that  they  approve  of  his  devoting 
himself  to  this  work,  and  that  he  is  in  need  of  the  aid  of  this  Board. 

2d.  That  the  aid  afforded  by  this  Board  be  confined  to  students  prosecuting  their 
studies,  either  in  the  Furman  University,  or  in  the  Southern  Baptist  Theological 
Seminary. 

3d.  That  the  appl;cant  be  required  to  submit  to  an  examination  by  the  Faculty  of 
the  Institution  which  he  proposes  to  enter,  in  reference  to  his  christian  experience, 
call  to  the  ministry,  views  of  gospel  truth  and  fitness  for  the  work  of  the  ministry. 
3 


18 


KEFORTS. 


4th.  That  each  beneficiary  be  required  to  furnish,  as  often  as  twice  a  year,  a  cer- 
tificate from  the  Faculty  of  the  Institution,  testifying  to  his  correct  moral  and 
christian  deportment,  his  diligent  and  successful  application  to  study,  and  recom- 
mending him  to  the  continuance  of  the  support  of  this  Board. 

5th.  That  the  applicant  be  required  to  prosecute  such  a  course  of  study  as  this 
Board  may  direct,  and  which  he  is  not  to  discontinue,  without  the  consent  of  the 
Board. 

6th.  That  the  applicant  be  required  to  give  a  bond  in  the  penal  sum  of  one  thousand 
dollars,  conditioned  for  the  refunding  of  the  entire  amount  he  may  have  received 
from  the  Board,  with  interest  thereon,  in  case  he  shall  terminate  his  course  of  study, 
(without  the  consent  of  the  Board,)  or  abandon  the  work  of  the  ministry  within 
five  years  after  leaving  the  Institution. 

7th.  That  the  appropriations  for  each  beneficiary  be,  as  far  as  practicable,  accord- 
ing to  his  necessities ;  but  that  the  appropriation  to  a  single  beneficiary  shall  in  no 
case  exceed  $250  a  year ;  and  that  in  ordinary  cases  it  be  limited  to  $200  a  year. 

8th.  That  beneficiaries  be  expected  in  all  cases,  to  do  what  they  can  for  their  sup- 
port, by  aid  from  their  churches  or  immediate  friends,  and  by  their  own  industry. 

In  reference  to  those  churches,  associations  and  benevolent  societies,  which  are  in 
the  habit  of  sustaining  their  own  beneficiaries,  this  Board  would  recommend  that 
the  same  course  be  continued,  with  the  simple  request  that  such  bodies  report 
annually  to  the  Secretary  of  this  Board,  the  names  of  their  beneficiaries,  and  the 
aid  afforded  to  each.  This  is  particularly  desirable  as  a  matter  of  statistica1  informa- 
tion, that  all  may  know  what  is  done  for  ministerial  education  in  this  ?tate;  and 
that  there  may  be  harmony  of  action  between  those  bodies  and  this  Board.  The 
following  statement  will  show  what  has  been  done  for  the  cause  of  education  during 
the  past  year,  at  least,  so  far  as  the  Secretary  has  been  able  to  ascertain  the  facts. 

There  are  now  thirteen  young  men  prosecuting  their  studies  at  the  University, 
with  special  reference  to  the  work  of  the  ministry.  Of  these,  it  is  believed,  that  not 
more  than  one  or  two,  if  any,  have  the  means  of  sustaining  themselves. 

The  Barnwell  Association  reports  an  education  fund  of  $204  35,  with  no  bene- 
ficiary. 

The  Charleston  Association  sustains  two  beneficiaries,  by  an  appropriation  of 
$200  to  each. 

The  Edisto  and  the  Edgefield  Associations  unite  in  sustaining  one  beneficiary  with 
an  appropriation  of  $150  each. 

The  Reedy  River  Association  sustains  one  with  an  approriation  of  $200. 

The  Savannah  River  Association  sustains  one,  with  an  appropriation  of  about  $250* 

The  Saluda  Association  sustains  one,  with  an  appropriation  of  $220. 

Tyger  River  Association  has  no  beneficiary  this  year. 

The  Welsh  Neck  Association  sustains  one,  with  an  appropriation  of  $200. 

The  Salem  Association  sustains  two  beneficiaries,  with  an  appropriation  to  each, 
of  about  $225. 

The  Juvenile  Female  Missionary  and  Education  Society,  of  Charleston,  sustains 
one  beneficiary. 

Twenty  brethren  of  the  Savannah  River  Association  sustains  one  beneficiary  with 
$250. 

In  conclusion,  we  commend  the  cause  of  ministerial  education  to  the  earnest  and 
prayertul  consideration  of  the  denomination,  throughout  the  State,  and  we  hope  that 
every  church  which  may  receive  our  next  circular,  will  make  some  reply  to  our  call. 

Very  respectfully  submitted, 

August  1st,  1859.  C  H.  JUDSON,  Cor.  Secretary. 


REPORTS. 


19 


BOARDS  OF  THE  CONVENTION. 

Education  Board,  located  at  Greenville. 

President— Rev.  J.  C.  Furman,  D.  D. 
Secretary — Prof.  C,  H.  Judson. 
Treasurer — Gr.  F.  Townes. 

Managers— Rev.  H.  A.  Duncan,  Rev.  P.  C.  Edwards,  Rev.  J.  P.  Boyce,  D.  D. 

Bible  and  Mission  Board,  located  at  Newberry. 

President— Eon,  J.  B.  O'Neall.. 
Secretary — Rev.  J.  3.  Brantly. 
Treasurer— John  B.  Carwile. 

Managers— W.  H.  Harrington,  G.  T.  Scott,  B.  F.  Griffin,  John  K.  Gary. 

Sunday  School  and  Oolportage  Boardt  located  at  Darlington. 

President— T.  P.  Lide, 
Secretary — Rev.  G.  B.  Bealer. 
Treasurer— Dr.  S.  H.  Pressley. 

Managers— R.  G.  Edwards,  A.  E.  Mclver,  Rev.  J.  0.  B,  Dargan,  Rev.  J.  W.  Bura. 


20 


treasurer's  report. 


9. — JOHN  B.  CAR  WILE,  Treasurer,  in  account  with  the 

of  S.  <7.,  from  July  2&th,  1858, 


Dr. 


Balance  on  hand  per  last  Report,  

Received  of  Ebenezer  Bible  Society,  

"  Tyger  River  Association  for  Foreign  Missions, 

"  Edgefield  Association  Bible  Society,  

"  Salem  Church,  Union  District,.  .  

"         Charleston  Association,  Bible,  

"  Welsh  Neck      "      to  J.  J.  Toon,  Bible,. . 

"         Rock  Creek  Bible  Society,  

"         Fellowship  Bible  Society,  

"  Beaver  Creek  Bible  Society  for  distribution 

of  Bibie  in  Foreign  lands,  

"         Rev.  J  K.  Mendenhall  for  books  sold  

"         Edgefield  Association  Bible  Society  

"         Welsh  Neck       "         "  f   

r<  Bennetsville  Baptist  church,  by  T.  P.  Lide, 

Bible  

"         Mount  Pleasant  Bible  Society  

11  Welsh  Neck  Association  by  T.  P.  Lide,  bible, 

M         Rev.  Wm.  Brooker  for  books  sold,,  

"  Willow  Swamp  Bible  Society  by  Rev.  W.  B 

Elkin,  

"  Mount  Ebal  Bible  Society,  

"         G.  &  C.  R.  R.  Co.,  for  books  lost,  

"         Union  Bible  Society,  

"         Bull  Swamp  Bible  Society,  

"         R^edy  River  Association  Bible  Society,  

"  Warrior's  Creek  " 

"  Edgefield            "           *  « 

"  Newberry  District            u  " 


533  98 
12  no 

168  70 
7o  28 
26  00 
43  25 
84  67 

114  50 


30  00 

33  00 

2  12 
23  00 
73  25 

5  00 
99  00 

3  00 
13  00 

29  00 
28  00 

1  50 
75  00 
21  00 
33  00 

2  00 
63  00 
50  00 


treasurer's  report. 


21 


Bible  and  Mission  Board  of  the  Baptist  State  Convention 
to  July  29th,  1859. 


Cr. 


1853. 

Aug.  21 

20 


21 

Sep.  2 

30 

Oct.  30 
Nov.  23 


Dec.  30 
1859. 
Jan. 11 


Feb.  3 
10 


14 

March  2 


April  15 
Mar'h  18 
April  11 

20 


May  4 

June  1 0 

21 
30 


Paid  Foreign  mission  board,  Southern  Baptist  Convention 

from  Tvger  River  Association  

Paid  for  Bibles  and  Testaments,  


Exchange,  

Railroad  expenses  on  books, 


"   Rev.  W.  B.  Elkin,  agent  on  account,  salary,  

"   Foreign  Mission  ^ard  Southern  Baptist  Conven- 
tion as  directed  by  Edgefield  Association  Bible 

Society,  

"   Domestic  Mission  board  Southern  Bapt.  Convention 
as  directed  by  Edgefield  Associa'n  Bible  Society, 
"    Rev.  W.  B.  Elkin  agent  on  account  salary,  

Paid  Bible  board  Southern  Baptist  Convention,  amounts 
contributed  by  Beaver  Creek  and  Fellowship  Bible  So- 
cie'y  for  that  Board  

Paid  Welsh  Neck  Association  Bible  Society  to  buy  Bibles 
for  distribution,  

Paid  Foreign  Mission  Board  Southern  Baptist  Convention 
as  directed  by  Edgefield  Association  Bible  Society,. . . 

Paid  Domestic  Mission  Board,  Southern  Baptist  Conven- 
tion as  directed  by  Edgefield  Association  Bible  Society, 

Paid  f»r  Bibles  and  Testaments,  

"   Railroad  expenses  on  books,  


1G8 
64 


300 


Mission  Board,  Charleston  Association  to  buy  Bibles 

for  distribution,  , 

Exchange,  , 

Railroad  expenses  on  books,  , 


Rev.  W.  B.  Elkin,  account  salary  as  agent  , 

Railroad  expenses  on  books,  , 

For  Bibles  and  Testaments,  , 

Exchange,  , 

Railroad  expenses  on  books,  , 

Bible  Board  Southern  Baptist  Convention  as  directed 

by  Union  Bible  Society, ....  , 

Railroad  expenses  on  books,  , 

Bibles,  Testaments  and  Exchange,  

Railroad  expenses  on  books,  

Foreign  Mission  Board  Southern  Baptist  Convention 

as  directed  by  Edgefield  Association  Bible  Society 
Domestic  Mission  Board,  Southern  Baptist  Conven 

tion  as  directed  by  Edgefield  Association  Bible 

Society  :  

Railroad  expenses  on  books,  

Contingent  expenses  of  this  Board  


By  balance  on  hand,  29th  July,  1859. 


23  42 


50 

00 

25 

2 

73 

1 

58 

72 

0< 

5( 

77 

00 

25 

25 

75 

00 

50 

27 

45 

2 

5( 

20 

00 

$1637  25 


We  have  examined  the  above  account,  and  find  it  correctly  stated,  and  properly 


teeasueee's  eepoet. 


i-i  00 


tm  ©  • 


o  S  s,  ^  tj 


O  CO 


•Stfi-2 

S'3  § 
as  p,  a 


.SftS  g 

►"5  9 


pa 


*a  o.q 

.9  ©.9.9 

«M  g  <?; 


eo  oj  oo  e©  ! 


|S  2.1 

© 

a 

S 

GO 


•  Si 
II 

M  2 
a  ©^ 

§  -5  _© 

«S  w-S 
© 

fa  fl 
9  bn 

3  e3  © 
©  «1 
E  o 

II 

*  a 

3.2 


10^00Ciff)OI010«WlO(M««0  MQOOONIONONO 
Hrt«HMHH«  t-1  CO  OS       <tf  «D  r-t  OS  rfl 

CM       CO  r—t  CO 


6$ 


.2  S 


§  06 
©  00 


©  a  ■ 

2S 


:.2-s  : 

02  • 

\Su  : 
La  £ 


CO  ^< 


II: 


IJs" 

©,° 


©  ^ 


05  '/) 

bC-© 


PS  ©  ©  > 
gpSPS^ 

~  ,    ^  o3    «o  61© 

2  ©  a  -2  o-o 
£  8cS  »  §.2  §  * 

co  H    co  co  w  k>  ft    W  PQ  co 


*  o 


M 

■g 

.2 
5  "a 

—  9 

"©  * 

*  8 

a  +3 


o 

a-2.2 

^  2  t> 

©  c*  .2 
CO 

Q2«<-l© 

g|Q 

9.£  h 
03  ©,o 

3  » 

COPS 


00     *  O 

i  :? 

9  *-S 

I  s 

'O   06  M 

9  a 
j  S  pp  «  g 

g  B  ^9 

-S©s  h.2 


:ts 

•  9 
9  § 

a^  a? 
2  I  S- 

.f-  ^  © 
W  GO 


GO  K 
3D  9 


CONSTITUTION. 

REVISED  AND  AMENDED. 


"We,  the  representatives  of  the  constituent  bodies  of  the 
State  Convention  of  the  Baptist  Denomination  in  South 
Carolina,  do  agree  upon  the  following  Articles,  as  forming 
the  annexed  constitution  of  the  Convention,  and  the  basis  of 
the  union : 

AKTICLE  I. 

This  body  shall  be  styled  the  State  Convention  of  the 
Baptist  Denomination  in  South  Carolina. 

AETICLE  II 

The  grand  objects  of  this  Convention  shall  be :  The  promo- 
tion of  religious  education,  and  particularly  that  of  pious 
young  men  designed  for  the  Gospel  ministry ;  the  spread  of 
the  Gospel  by  Foreign,  Domestic,  and  State  Missionary  oper- 
ations ;  by  the  circulation  of  the  sacred  Scriptures  ;  and  by 
such  means  as  may  be  devised  from  time  to  time,  for  the  pro- 
motion of  the  interests  of  Education,  Publication,  and  the 
Sunday  School  system — to  bring  the  Baptist  Churches  in  this 
State  into  closer  union — to  harmonize  their  views  and  feelings 
in  things  spiritual,  by  conferring  together  on  all  matters  of 
interests  respecting  the  Kingdom  of  God — and  in  general  to 
direct  and  concentrate  their  efforts  in  such  measures  as  may, 
in  their  opinion,  tend  to  promote  the  glory  of  God  and  the 
spread  of  evangelical  knowledge  in  the  earth.  The  Conven- 
tion, though  not  unwilling  to  give  advice  in  cases  of  difficulty, 
yet  will  claim  to  itself  no  power  to  lord  it  over  God's  heri- 
tage, believing  that  the  right  of  Government,  under  Christ,  is 
vested  in  the  Churches  themselves. 


24 


CONSTITUTION". 


ARTICLE  III. 

The  Convention  shall  consist  of  Delegates  from  the  several 
Baptist  Associations  in  this  State  who  may  approve  of  the 
measures  here  adopted ;  and  of  Representatives  from  other 
religious  bodies  of  the  Baptist  connexion,  concerned  in  the 
promotion  of  the  same  objects  with  the  Convention ;  the 
number  of  Delegates  and  Representatives  bearing  always  a 
just  proportion  to  the  number  of  their  constituents.  The 
attending  Delegates  shall  be  a  quorum  to  do  business.  The 
appointment  of  these  Delegates  shall  be  made  annually  or 
biennially,  as  the  Convention  shall  determine  to  hold  its 
meeting;  and  a  certificate  of  their  appointment  shall  be  ex- 
hibited to  the  Convention.  The  members  of  the  Board  of 
Agents  shall  be  ex-officio  members  of  the  new  Convention. 

ARTICLE  IV. 

The  Convention  shall  have  a  President,  Yice  President, 
Secretary  and  Treasurer.  It  shall  also  have  a  Board  of 
Agents  for  the  transaction  of  business  during  its  recess,  con- 
sisting of  eight  members — the  Treasurer  ex-officio  being  one 
of  them — any  three  of  whom  duly  convened,  shall  be  a  quo- 
rum. The  duties  severally  assigned  to  the  officers  of  similar 
institutions  shall  devolve  on  those  of  this  body,  according  to 
their  rank  and  character  in  the  Convention  and  in  the  Board. 
The  Board,  as  Agents,  shall  be  adequate  to  the  performance 
of  all  necessary  business  which  may  occur  during  the  recess 
of  the  Convention.  Both  Officers  and  Agents  shall  hold  their 
station — unless  forfeited  by  unrighteous  conduct — till  a  new 
election.  The  Board  shall  have  the  power  to  fill  vacancies 
in  their  own  body. 

ARTICLE  V. 

The  support  of  an  Institution  of  learning  in  this  State  shall 
be  considered  as  a  primary  object.  One  of  the  designs  of 
this  Institution  is  to  assist  those  who,  in  the  judgment  of  their 
churches,  are  called  to  preach  the  Gospel,  that  they  may 


CONSTITUTION. 


25 


"study  to  show  themselves  workmen  approved  unto  God, 
that  need  not  to  be  ashamed,  rightly  dividing  the  word  of 
truth."  Those  of  this  character  who  need  pecuniary  aid,  may 
receive  it,  at  the  discretion  of  the  Convention,  from  funds 
appropriated  to  this  object.  The  government  of  this  Institu- 
tion shall  be  committed  to  a  Board  of  Trustees,  to  be  elected 
by  the  Convention  at  the  end  of  every  fourth  year. 

AKTICLE  VI. 

Ministers  of  the  Gospel  in  any  of  our  churches  needing  aid 
in  the  more  necessary  part  of  learning,  and  unable  to  attend 
at  the  Institution,  may  be  furnished  with  a  supply  of  the  most 
useful  books,  from  the  general  fund  for  education  purposes. 

AETICLE  VII. 

Although  contributions  in  money  shall  not  be  considered 
requisite  to  entitle  to  a  representation  in  the  Convention,  yet 
this  body  will  receive  such  contributions  from  any  of  its  con- 
stituent bodies  that  may  wish  to  aid  in  the  support  of  mission- 
ary service  among  the  destitute,  either  at  home  or  abroad ; 
of  the  education  of  pious  young  men  who  may  be  approved 
by  the  churches  to  which  they  belong,  as  called  of  God  to 
preach  the  Gospel ;  or  any  other  scheme  of  benevolence  tend- 
ing to  the  increase  of  evangelical  and  useful  knowledge,  or  of 
vital,  practical  religion.  And  the  right  of  conducting  the 
business  of  the  fund  will  be  considered  as  vested  exclusively 
in  the  representative  of  bodies  which  do  regularly  contribute. 
In  the  election  of  the  Board  of  Trustees  of  Furman  University, 
the  vote  shall  be  cast  only  by  the  representatives  of  the  larger 
bodies,  viz :  Associations — which  enter  into  the  constituency 
of  the  Convention.  The  extent  of  this  right  on  the  part  of 
each  Association,  shall  be  measured  by  the  amount  it  may 
have  contributed  to  the  vested  funds  of  the  Convention, 
whether  this  contribution  shall  have  been  made  directly  by 
the  donation  of  churches  or  of  individuals  within  its  limits ; 
and  the  contribution  of  each  sum  of  one  thousand  dollars  shall 
give  the  contributing  body  the  right  to  cast  one  vote.  All 


26 


CONSTITUTION. 


moneys  specially  appropriated  shall  be  sacredly  applied  to 
the  object  designated ;  bnt  where  any  contributions  or  be- 
quests are  made  without  any  specific  designation,  discretion 
in  their  application,  shall  be  exercised  by  the  Convention  or 
its  Board  of  Agents. 

AETICLE  VIK. 

The  Treasurer  shall  take  charge  of  all  moneys  and  special- 
ties belonging  to  the  Convention,  and  keep  separate  accounts 
of  the  amounts  contributed  for  different  objects,  and  render 
regular  accounts  of  them  to  the  Convention  at  its  stated  meet- 
ings, and,  also,  to  the  Board,  when  called  upon  to  do  so.  He 
shall  be  elected  by  the  Convent-ion  at  its  stated  meeting,  and 
shall  hold  his  office  until  the  last  day  of  the  next  meeting,  and 
until  another  shall  be  elected  and  give  bond  and  enter  upon 
the  duties  of  his  office.  For  the  faithful  discharge  of  his  trust 
he  shall  give  bond  and  security  to  the  Convention,  in  such 
sum  of  money  as  they  shall  from  time  to  time  direct.  He 
shall  pay  no  money  out  of  the  funds  but  by  the  order  of  the 
Convention  or  Board,  signed  by  the  presiding  officer.  And 
should  the  said  office  become  vacant  by  death,  resignation  or 
removal,  the  said  vacancy  shall  be  filled  by  an  election  by 
the  Board  of  Agents,  and  the  person  so  elected  by  the  Board 
shall  hold  his  office  until  the  next  stated  meeting  of  the  Con- 
vention, and  until  another  shall  be  elected,  give  bond  and 
security,  and  enter  upon  the  duties  of  his  office.  And  the 
Treasurer  so  elected  shall  give  bond,  and  do  all  the  duties 
required,  and  in  the  same  manner  as  if  elected  by  the  Con- 
vention. 

ARTICLE  IX. 

The  Convention  may  use  its  discretion  in  having  either  an 
annual  or  biennial  meeting.  But  in  cases  of  important  con- 
cern, and  especially  when  the  arrangement  for  a  biennial 
session  has  been  made,  the  President  may,  at  the  instance  of 
the  Board,  call  an  earlier  meeting. 


CONSTITUTION. 


27 


AETICLE  X. 

Any  alteration  which  experience  may  prove  to  be  neces- 
sary, may  be  made  in  these  Rules,  by  the  concurring  vote  of 
two-thirds  of  the  members  present  at  an  annual  or  biennial 
meeting. 


RULES  FOR  THE  TRANSACTION  OF  BUSINESS. 


1.  The  meeting  of  the  Convention  shall  be  opened  and 
closed,  each  day  of  its  session,  with  prayer  by  the  President, 
or  by  some  person  whom  he  shall  request  to  perform  the 
services. 

2.  After  prayer  on  the  first  day  the  names  of  Delegates 
shall  be  enrolled,  officers  shall  be  elected,  and  when  the  body 
is  organized,  applications  for  membership  from  new  bodies 
be  decided  on,  and  if  admitted,  their  attending  Delegates 
shall  be  received  by  the  right  hand  of  fellowship.  The  Con- 
stitution of  the  Convention  and  the  Kules  of  Order  shall  then 
be  read. 

3.  The  Minutes  of  the  preceding  day  shall  be  read,  to  the 
end  that  mistakes,  if  any  shall  have  been  made,  may  be  cor- 
rected. 

4.  Persons  invited  to  seats  in  Convention  shall  have  the 
privilege  of  speaking  in  debate,  but  not  of  voting. 

5.  The  members  of  Convention  shall  retain  their  seats,  pre- 
serve silence,  and  refrain  from  conversation  during  the  read- 
ing of  the  Minuter,  while  the  presiding  officer  is  putting  a 
question,  or  when  any  member  is  speaking  in  debate. 

6.  No  member  shall  absent  himself  from  the  meeting  of 
Convention  without  permission. 

/T.  Each  member,  when  he  speaks  in  debate,  or  has  any 
communication  to  make  to  the  Convention,  shall  address  the 
Chair,  standing  in  his  place,  and  when  he  has  finished^  he 
shall  sit  down. 

8.  No  member  shall  speak  oftener  than  twice  in  any  one 
debate  on  the  same  day,  without  permission  from  the  Con- 
vention. 


RULES. 


29 


9.  When  two  or  more  members  rise  nearly  at  the  same 
time,  to  address  the  Convention,  the  President  shall  name  the 
one  to  speak,  being  the  one  who  had  first  risen  and  addressed 
the  Chair.  After  he  shall  have  spoken,  those  who  had  risen 
with  him  shall  be  heard  in  the  order  of  their  rising,  in  prior- 
ity of  all  others,  should  they  still  desire  to  be  heard. 

10.  When  a  member  shall  be  called  to  order,  he  shall  sit 
down  until  the  Chair  determines  whether  he  is  in  order  or 
not.  An  appeal,  however,  may  be  made  from  the  decision 
of  the  Chair  to  the  Convention. 

11.  ISTo  motion  shall  be  debated,  nor  the  question  upon  it 
be  put,  unless  it  shall  have  been  seconded ;  and  then,  if  re- 
quired by  the  President  or  any  member,  it  shall  be  reduced, 
to  writing,  delivered  in  at  the  table,  and  read  before  the  de- 
bate begins. 

12.  When  a  question  is  under  debate,  no  motion  shall  be 
received,  except  to  adjourn,  to  lay  on  the  table,  to  postpone 
indefinitely,  to  postpone  to  a  day  certain,  to  commit,  or  to 
amend ;  which  several  motions  shall  have  precedence  in  the 
order  in  which  they  stand  there  arranged.  Neither  of  these 
motions,  with  the  exception  of  that  to  adjourn,  after  being 
decided,  shall  be  allowed  again  on  the  same  day  upon  the 
same  question. 

13.  A  motion  to  adjourn  shall  always  be  in  order,  except 
when  a  question  is  actually  put,  and  the  Convention  is  en- 
gaged in  voting. 

14.  If  the  question  for  debate  contain  several  points,  it  may 
be  divided  at  the  request  of  any  member. 

15.  In  filling  up  blanks,  the  largest  sum  and  the  longest 
time  shall  be  first  put. 

16.  When  the  question  has  been  once  made,  and  the  vote 
taken,  it  shall  be  in  order  for  any  member  in  the  majority  to 
move  for  its  re-consideration. 

17.  All  questions  shall  be  put  by  the  President,  and  the 
members  shall  respectively  signify  their  assent  by  answering 
"Yea,"  and  their  dissent  by  answering  "  No."  If  the  Presi- 
dent, or  any  member,  shall  not  be  satisfied  that  the  decision 


30 


RULES. 


expressed  by  the"  ayes  and  noes  is  certainly  ascertained,  the 
President  shall  request  those  who  voted  in  the  affirmative  to 
rise  and  stand  until  they  shall  be  counted.  After  these  shall 
be  seated,  the  President  shall  request  those  who  voted  in  the 
negative  to  rise  and  stand  till  they  shall  be  counted.  In  the 
event  of  an  equal  decision,  the  President  shall  have  the  cast- 
ing vote. 

18.  "When  the  President  shall  desire  to  be  heard  in  debate, 
or  to  be  temporarily  absent,  the  Chair  shall  be  taken  by  the 
Yice  President ;  or,  in  case  of  his  absence,  by  some  member 
named  by  the  President,  until  he  shall  resume  his  seat. 

19.  The  following  Standing  Committees,  to  consist  of  five 
members  each,  shall  be  appointed  by  the  President  at  the 
commencement  of  each  session,  viz: 

A  Committee  to  arrange  the  Preaching  during  the  meeting. 
A  Committee  on  Accounts. 

A  Committee  on  the  Minutes  and  Letters  of  Corresponding 
Bodies. 

A  Committee  on  the  Time  and  Place  of  next  Meeting,  and 
the  Persons  who  shall  Preach  the  stated  Sermons  of  the 
Convention's  appointment. 

A  Committee  on  the  notice  of  Deceased  Ministers. 

A  Committee  to  prepare  a  List  of  the  names  of  Baptist  Min- 
isters in  South  Carolina,  and  their  Post  Offices. 

A  Committee  on  Nomination  of  a  Board  of  Agents. 


ABSTRACT  OF  MINUTES 

OF  THE 

BOARD  OF  TRUSTEES  OF  FURMAN  UNIVERSITY. 


Sumterville,  Jult  29,  1859. 

The  Board  met,  the  following  members  being  present,  viz: 
I.  L.  Brookes,  J.  B.  O'Xeall,  T.  P.  Lide,  A.  J.  Lawton,  J.  J. 
Brantly,  J.  M.  Chiles,  A.  Pice,  H.  D.  Duncan,  H.  A."  Dun- 
can, J.  O.  B.  Dargan,  J.  Nicholas,  G.  B.  Bealer,  E.  T.  Wink- 
ler, J.  G.  Landrum,  P.  E.  Duncan,  P.  G.  Edwards,  R.  Fur- 
man.    Prayer  by  Bro.  Rice. 

Passed  the  following  resolutions  in  respect  to  Dr.  Curtis  : 

Resolved,  That  the  melancholy  event  which  deprives  us  of  the  services  of  Rev.  Dr. 
Curtis  is  one  which,  though  occurring  many  months  since,  requires  notice  from  this 
Board.  Dr.  Curtis  was  endeared  to  this  Board  by  an  eminently  religious  life,  and 
by  usefulness  in  all  the  walks  of  life. 

Resolved,  That  this  Board  sympathize  sincerely  with  his  afflicted  family,  and  with 
his  and  our  brethren  throughout  the  State. 

Resolved,  That,  a  page  of  the  Secretary's  book  be  left  blank,  and  inscribed  with  the 
name  of  Dr.  Curtis. 

The  resignation  of  Prof.  Poyall  was  presented,  and  laid  on 
the  table. 

The  report  of  the  Faculty  was  read  and  referred  to  the  fol- 
lowing Committee,  viz:  J.  B.  O'Neall,  J.  O.  B.  Dargan,  E. 
T.  Winkler. 

Requested  the  Treasurer  to  attend  the  meetings  of  the 
Board. 

Prof.  Fur  man  reported  in  regard  to  his  agency. 
Pev.  J.  P.  Kendrick  tendered  his  resignation  as  a  member 
of  the  Board,  which  was  accepted. 


32 


ABSTRACT  OF  MINUTES. 


The  report  of  the  Treasurer  was  presented,  and  referred  to 
the  following  Committee,  viz:  J.  G.  Landrum,  J.  M.  Chiles, 
H.  A.  Duncan. 

Elected  Prof.  Furman  President  of  Fnrman  University. 

The  Committee  on  the  report  of  the  Faculty  submitted 
their  report,  expressing  their  gratification  at  the  continued 
prosperity  of  the  University,  and  recommending  that  the  de- 
gree of  Bachelor  of  Arts  be  conferred  on  the  young  gentle- 
men whose  names  had  been  proposed  in  the  report  of  the 
Faculty  for  graduation. 

The  Committee  on  the  Treasurer's  Report,  reported  that 
they  had  examined  the  same  and  found  it  correct.  In  ac- 
cordance with  their  suggestion,  the  Rev.  J.  E.  Rue  was  ap- 
pointed Agent  of  the  Board. 

Elected  the  following  members  to  supply  vacancies  in  the 
Board :  S.  W.  Bookhart,  J.  D.  Allen,  C.  L.  Burckmyer. 

Appointed  H.  A.  Duncan,  P.  E.  Duncan,  and  R.  Furman 
a  Committee  to  communicate  with  Rev.  Mr.  Rue  in  reference 
to  his  acting  as  Agent  of  the  Board. 

Elected  A.  J.  Lawton  1st  Yice  President  and  J.  M.  Chiles 
2d  Yice  President  of  the  Board. 

Resolved,Th&t  at  the  approaching  Commencement  the  honorary  title  of  D,  D.  be 
conferred  upon  Rev.  J.  J.  Brantly,  of  Newberry,  and  R.  Furman,  of  Greenville. 

Adjourned  to  meet  at  Greenville  on  Wednesday  morning. 


Greenville,  August  3,  1859. 

The  Board  met.    Prayer  by  Bro.  Dargan. 

The  President  and  the  Executive  Committee  of  the  Female 
College  submitted  their  reports,  which  were  referred  to  the 
following  Committee,  viz:  J.  G.  Landrum,  T.  P.  Lide,  R.  G. 
Edwards. 

Resolved,  That  the  name  of  the  Rev.  J.  E.  Ryerson,  of  Augusta,  be  added  to  the 
names  of  those  upon  whom  the  title  of  D.  D.  shall  be  conferred  to-day. 

Appropriated  $25  for  the  purchase  of  chemicals. 


ABSTRACT  OF  MINUTES. 


33 


The  Committee  on  the  reports  of  the  President  and  Execu- 
tive Committee  of  the  Female  College  reported,  recommend- 
ing that  Col.  T.  E.  Ware  be  added  to  the  Executive  Commit- 
tee ;  that  the  subject  of  Diplomas  be  referred  to  Judge 
O'Neall  and  President  Duncan ;  that  the  arrangements  of 
Degrees  be  referred  to  the  Executive  Committee  in  connec- 
tion with  the  Faculty.    Report  adopted. 

Resolved,  To  refer  arrangements  pertaining  to  Commencement  in  Female  College 
to  the  Faculty  and  the  Executive  Committee  of  the  College. 

Resolved,  That  retrenchments  be  made  in  expenditures  ©f  the  University,  such  re- 
trenchments to  begin  in  the  Preparatory  Department. 

Resolved,  That  it  is  the  sense  of  this  Board  that  $2,000  should  be  provided  for,  to 
meet  expenses  of  the  Board  for  the  ensuing  year. 

Appointed  President  Furman  to  confer  with  Prof.  Boyce 
in  regard  to  the  value  of  books  to  be  transferred  to  the  Theo- 
logical Seminary. 

The  resignation  of  Prof.  Royall  was  accepted. 

Resolved,  That  in  accepting  the  resignation  of  Prof.  Royall,  the  Board  express  their 
high  estimate  of  his  character  and  scholarship,  their  grateful  appreciation  of  his  ser- 
vices, and  their  earnest  wishes  for  his  prosperity  and  continued  usefulness. 

Resolved,  That  the  Treasurer  be  authorized  to  borrow  from  the  Permanent  Fund 
such  amounts  as  may  come  into  hand,  or  be  now  in  hand,  for  the  payment  of.  debts 
incurred  for  currrent  expenses  prior  to  the  meeting  of  the  Convention  of  1858,  and 
that  he  charge  the  same  against  the  income  account,  and  that  the  amount  be  refund- 
ed from  future  income. 

Resolved,  That  the  expenses  ought  not  to  be  increased,  if  practicable,  until  this 
amount  be  refunded. 

Appointed  the  following  brethren :  J.  P.  Boyce  for  the 
Charleston  Association,  J.  0.  B.  Dargan  for  the  Welsh  Neck, 
H.  D.  Duncan  for  the  Savannah  Kiver,  J.  M.  Chiles  for  the 
Edgefield,  to  endeavor  each  to  raise  $200,  to  meet  current 
expenses  of  the  Board. 

Resolved,  That  all  students  entering  the  University  in  the  Spring  Term  of  1860, 
be  required  to  pay  a  matriculation  fee  of  $5  each,  and  that  all  new  students  entering 
thereafter  pay  the  same. 

The  resignation  of  T.  B.  Koberts,  as  a  member  of  the  Board  ? 
was  tendered  and  accepted  ;  and  the  vacancy  thus  occasioned 
was  filled  by  the  election  of  L.  C.  Hinton,  of  Chester. 

5 


ABSTRACT  OF  MUtUTEB. 


Rev.  L  L.  Brookes  tendered  his  resignation  as  President  of 
the  Board. 

Mmotwai,  That  the  thanks  of  the  Board  be  presented  to  Bro.  Brookes  for  the  kind- 
ness, dignity,  and  courtesy  with  which  he  has  presided  over  this  body. 

Adjourned  to  meet  in  Greenville  on  the  first  day  of  the 
meeting  of  Convention  in  I860,  at  S  o'clock,  A.  aT. 

R.  FUKMAX,  Secretary. 


TREASURER'S  REPORT. 


C.  H.  JUDSON,  Treasurer,  in  Account  with  the  Furman 

University. 
Dr. 

1858.    To  sundry  amounts  received  as  follows  : 

July  21.   "  balance  in  hand  last  report,    .     .     .  $379  26 

"     "     "  Columbia  Bridge  Company  dividend,  19  50 

"     "     "  Col.  B.  H.  Brown,  interest  on  bond,  .    50  00 

"     "     "  S.  W.  E.  K.  Bank,  dividend,     .       .  47  50 

"    23.    "  Col.  B.  F.  Griffin,  on  bond,  .       .  .100  00 

"     "     "  Eobert  Kirkland,    "  "  .       .       .  344  44 

"     "     "  Rev.  J.  M.  Chiles,  interest,   .       .  .50  00 

"    26.    "  Eev.  Wm.  Brooker,  on  bond,    .       .  173  33 

u     u     u     «    T  w  Mellichamp,  interest,  .    30  94 

"    30.    "  E.  F.  Davis,  interest,        .       .       .  10  00 

Aug.  16.    "  Prof.  J.  P.Boyce,  exch'ge  on  CharPstn,  1500  00 

"    20.    "  Wm.  Knotts,  "interest,          .       .  .    42  00 

u  23.  "  Eev.  J.  Trapp,  «  .  .  .  .  42  00 
cc     u     «  j>  ^rm<  Rook)  on  bond^     m       m         400  qq 

«    24.  "  Dr.  S.  EL  Pressley,  interest,      .       .       21  00 

"     «  "  Eev.  J.  Nichols,  15  00 

Oct.  7.  "  G.  W.  Magee,  on  bond,     .       .       .       31  62 

"    18.  "  T.  B.  Eoberts,  Treas'r.  con.  for  Library,    10  96 

"    25.  "  J.  M.  Cox,  balance  on  hands,       .       .    11  25 

Nov.  24.  "  G.  W.  Mclver,  interest,     .       .       .       38  50 

Dec'r.  1.  "  Elijah  Hicks,  on  bond,         .       .       .387  00 

"     "  "  E.  B.  Cain,     "     «         ...     200  00 

"     u  "  F.  E.  Wilson,  "     "     .       .       .       .    42  00 

"    14.  a  A.S.Coleman,"     "         ...       26  60 

"    22.  "  A.  B.  Estes,  interest,    .       .       .       .    70  00 

"     "  "  Gov.  J.  E.  Brown,  bequest  of  Wm.  Simp- 
son, per  Eev.  J.  Grisham,  Executor,     407  62 

"    30.  "  J.  D.  Williams,  on  bond  of  Mrs.  Baker,  250  00 


36 


tkeasttkek's  kepoet. 


Dec.  30. 

cc 

Eev.  Jos.  J.  Lawton,  interest, 

$30  00 

u 

cc 

cc 

Tuition  2d  Term,  1858,  . 

1392  23 

1859. 

Jan' 

cc 

Eev.  W.  B.  Johnson,  interest, 

.    35  00 

cc 

3. 

cc 

Dr.  J.  H.  Dean,  on  bond, 
S.  Latimer,          "  " 

35  25 

cc 

4. 

(C 

.    32  10 

a 

5. 

cc 

M.  H.  Brock,  interest, 

2  10 

cc 

cc 

cc 

L.  J.  Jones,  on  bond  of  Wm.  Hatton, 
Kev.  G.  B.  Bealer,  per  T.  P.  Lide,  . 

.  146  77 

cc 

8. 

cc 

15  60 

a 

cc 

cc 

T.  P.  Lide,  

.    14  00 

a 

cc 

cc 

L.  A.  Brooks,  on  bond,     .       .  . 
E.  II.  Peeples,  interest, 

21  30 

cc 

11. 

cc 

.    63  00 

cc 

17. 

cc 

Allen  Gibson,  on  bond, 
J.  M.  Taylor,    "     "  , 

42  67 

cc 

cc 

cc 

.  180  64 

cc 

21. 

cc 

G.  Ferguson,    "     "  ... 

12  10 

cc 

cc 

cc 

J.  Courtenay,    "     "  . 

.    10  00 

U 

cc 

cc 

John  Jennings,  interest,  . 

35  00 

cc 

22. 

cc 

P.  G.  Edwards,     «     .       .  . 

.    12  25 

u 

cc 

cc 

0.  J.  Elford,  on  bond  of  E.  E.  Smith, 

1373  69 

cc 

cc 

cc 

*       "       "     "    "  C.  B.  Griffin, 

1099  31 

u 

cc 

cc 

"       "       "  account  of  Tuition, 

48  47 

cc 

cc 

cc 

"       "       u  Jarrett's  account, 

.    18  80 

cc 

cc 

cc 

"       "       "  his  bond, 
B.  F.  Mays,  interest, 
E.  J.  Mims,  " 

405  86 

cc 

26. 

cc 

.    21  00 

a 

cc 

cc 

42  00 

a 

cc 

cc 

J.  W.  Brooks,  per  P.  C.  Edwards, 
Wm.  Mobley,  interest, 

.    85  50 

Feb 

'y.2. 

cc 

42  00 

ti 

7. 

cc 

Col.  B.  EL  Brown,  interest, 

.    14  00 

9. 

cc 

Eev.  W.  A.  Lawton,  interest,  . 

Dr.  Ira  S.  Scott,          "      .       ,  , 

42  00 

cc 

cc 

cc 

.     3  25 

cc 

10. 

cc 

J.  A.  W.  Thomas,  per  J.  C.  Furman, 

10  00 

.£ 

cc 

cc 

L.  C.  Hinton,         u     «  " 

246  65 

CC 

cc 

cc 

Mrs.  A.  Griffin,  subscription, 

.    20  00 

CC 

cc 

cc 

J.  H.  Wideman,  for  Permanent  Fund, 

100  00 

cc 

16. 

cc 

Wm.  Watson,  interest, 

89  00 

cc 

17. 

cc 

Eev.  T.  W.  Mellichamp,  interest, 

.     7  00 

cc 

22. 

cc 

T.  B.  Eoberts,  loan,  . 

1500  00 

March  3. 

cc 

J.  S.  Lawton,  interest, 

.    42  00 

cc 

cc 

cc 

Wm.  Watkms,  on  bond, 
Elijah  Pringle,  interest, 

115  17 

cc 

4. 

cc 

.    63  00 

cc 

cc 

cc 

G.  W.  Mclver,     "  ... 

38  50 

cc 

cc 

cc 

"          "     on  bond  of  D.  Odom, 
Wm.  Drakeford,  on  bond, 

42  00 

cc 

5. 

cc 

.    16  75 

cc 

7. 

cc 

Dr.  G.  A.  Blake,  interest, 

42  00 

Mar' 

h  7. 

(( 

8. 

a 

15. 

c< 

u 

u 

12. 

a 

21. 

(< 

24. 

a 

28. 

cc 

30. 

7.    "  Rev 


April  11. 


15. 
20. 
25. 
26. 

5. 

6. 

i. 

c< 

4. 
20. 
1. 

22. 

26. 


May 

tc 

June 
u 


July 


treasurer's  report.  37 

ev.  J.  Nichols,  interest,      .  .       .  $17  5C 

"  D.  J.  Walker,  interest,             .  .       21  00 

"  Dr.  J.  K.  Gary,  interest,       .  .       .    56  00 

"  Dr.  S.  II.  Pressley,  interest,      .  .       42  00 

"  Rev.  J.  O.  B.  Dargan,  interest,  .       .     3  50 

"  Joseph  J.  Furse,  interest,         .  .       42  00 

"  J.  R.  Shnrley,  interest,  .  .  .100  00 
"  T.  B.  Roberts,  S.  R.  Association  Fund 

for  Education,            .  397  22 

"  B.  T.  Minis,  interest,           .  .       .    35  00 

"  W.  G.  Harris,  on  bond,      .     .  .       12  00 

"  Prof.  M.  W.  Sams,  on  bond,  .       .  600  00 

"  S.  R.  Westmoreland,  interest,  .  .  21  00 
"  Bobo,  Edwards  and  Carlisle  on  bonds  of 


E.  M.  Cooper  and  L.  A.  Green, 
J.  R.  Shurley,  on  bond, 
A.  R.  Stokes,  interest, 
O.  E.  Edwards,  on  bond  of  II.  Culp, 
H.  C.  Young,  loan, 
T.  Willingham,  interest, 
Col.  A.  McFarlan,  on  bond, 
Conrad  Kemerlin,  on  bond, 
T.  H,  DeGraffenreid,  on  bond, 
Philip  Kitching,  on  bond, 
J.  M.  Miller,  on  bond, 
O.  E.  Sealey,  on  bond, 
J.  G.  Patterson,  on  bond  of  Dr.  A. 

Anderson, 
Tuition  Spring  Term,  1859, 
Balance  due  Treasurer, 


Cr. 

By  sundry  accounts  paid  as  detail- 
ed in  report : 

On  account  of  salaries,    -       -    $8467  90 

Incidental  Expenses,     814  86 

595  16 

2061  00 

5073  86 

580  39 


.    28  45 
151  00 
.    21  00 
28  63 
1000  00 
56  00 
.  136  50 
75  00 
.  371  44 
10  00 
.  135  00 
100  00 

.'    13  25 
.    1699  95 
.  Ill  35 

$17,593  17 


"  Interest  and  exchange, 
Old  debts, 

u 


Loans, 
"  Sundries, 


-$17,593  17 


C  H.  JUDSON,  Treasurer. 


38 


treasurer's  report. 


u^aA*  Snunp 
s^oafqo  snou 
-va  o%  p<qu? 
-uo5  sstaoui 
jo  innocay 


o  i— 


•s.iaquia^ 
jo  -o^  p4ox 


CO  i — '  »— * 


CO  T-H  CO  * — 1 
(M  CM  CO 
CM  i— «        1—*  CM 

 * 


•saaquuaj^ 
91iq  \\ 


ao4dxa  aotsip 
Aq  ^sj  SjUiaj^ 


<M       00  OJ 


p9i0|saa  pui3 

P,09.I  SJtU39[\T 


•UOIJ-BIOOSSK 

^aisodtuoo  S8 
-qoj^qojo  "o^ 


:'B  :  2  :     :  a 

>>»  ;  .  -jh 
*  ^  o  £  <*>  -3  <J  a)"1 

'  t>».o 


a>   :         sh  ;  k. 

^5   :«S  :  * 

s  ..a  a  "3  >  g 

£3  5  .  o 


^     n  ^  ni  u  ^  piQ 


gee     a  t^cn 

I  3  3  53  © 

1  COJ3  3  §  3W  »R0 
aco*s'eo^^  qT3 

<j    2    m  b 


a>  O  x  ~ "  «- 


(J      —      ™  —  o 

a   S    o  o 


O  02  g  t^TJ  ^Mm^m 


+i  «  o3  3       «->  ^, 


M    Q    ea  cc 


.53  ^ 
a  <s 
8  Q 


03  0) 


P3    P3    03  03 


°  s  • 

P6.P3  . 

•  .  > 

O  O  D 


C<3  P3 


<  rn 

o  g 

2S  3 

!3  03 


o3  btl 
XI  'O 


02 


E- 


WWW  Ef 


A  LIST 

OF 


BAPTIST  MINISTERS  II  SOUTH  CAROLINA. 

WITH  THEIR  POST  OFFICES. 


Those  marked  thus  (l*)  are  Licentiates. 


NAMES. 

Adair,  John  (*l.) 
Allen,  Joel 
Anderson,  CAT 
Ashley,  W 
Acker,  A 
Arial,  J 
Ayres,  Wm 
Ballard,  W  L 
Barnett,  M  C  S 
Bartlett,  H  T 
Barton,  H  M 
Baskins,  J  W 
Bateraan,  J  J 
Baxlev,  W  C 
Bealer,  G  B 
Beattie,  W  0 
Beck,  W 
Bell,  G 
Berry,  L  M 
Beverly,  W  D 
Blythe,  D 
Boddie,  D 
Bostick,  J  M 
Boyce,  Prof  J  P,  D  D 
Bradford,  R 
Brandy,  J  J 
Breaker,  C  M 
Breaker,  D  M 
Breaker,  J  M  0 
Brooker,  W 
Brookes,  I  L 
Brooks,  G  W 
Brooks,  R  (*l.) 


POST  OFFICES. 

West  Union 
Marion,  C  H 
Greenville  " 

Craytonville 
White  Horse 
Pickensville 
Marion,  C  H 
Cedar  Falls 
partanburg,  C  H 
Lott'a 
Fairplay 
King9ville 
Society  Hill 
Barnwell,  C  H 
Darlington,  " 

Beunettsville 
Darlington,  C  H 
Lotts' 
Merrittsville 
Gadsden 
South  Saluda 
Graniteviile 
Cheraw 
Greenville 
Silverton 
Newberry 
Charleston 
Monks'  Corner 
Beaufort 
Bull  Swamp 
Hamburg 
Greenville 
Friendship 


Brunson,  Daniel 
Bruce,  E  D 
Bum,  J  W 
Burns,  B 
Burris,  J 
Burroughs,  J  H 
Campbell,  T  J 
Cartledge,  A  M 
Carpenter,  E  J 
Carson ,  W  B 
Cave,  B  M 
Chambers,  P 
Chapman,  J 
Chastain,  B  E 
Chiles,  J  M 
Chovin,  C  E 
Cohtn ,  A  D 
Coleman,  J  D 
Coleman,  J  W 
Collins,  E 
Collins,  G  W  (*l.) 
Copeland,  J  T 
Crane,  W 
Culpeper,  J 
Curry,  W  L  (*l.) 
Curtis,  Wm  L  L  D 
Cuttino,  D  W 
Cuthbert,  Lucius 
Dargan,  JOB 
Davenport,  J  B 
Davis,  0  J 
Dawson,  Thos 
Dean,  C  P 


POST  OFFICES. 

Duntouville 
Townville 
Society  Hill 

AndersoB,  C  H 
ii  ii 

Pickens,  C  H 
Limestone  Springs 
Winnsboro* 
Piercetown 
Gillisonvillo 
Barnwell,  C  H 
Horse  Shoe 
Pickens,  C  H 
Highland  Grove 
Greenwood 
Robertville 
St  Helenaville 
Marion,  C  H 
Dyson's 
West  Union 
Greenville 
Flat  Rock 
Milford 
Timmonsville 
Hamburg 
Limestone  Springs 
Georgetown 
Aiken 
Darlington 
Calhoun 
Walter  boro' 
Edisto 
Calhoun 


40 


LIST  OF  MINISTERS. 


NAME9 

Dean,  Jesse 
Dill,  A 
Dill,  E 
Dill,  Thos 
Dozier,  A  S 
D  ummond,  S 
Drummond,  W 
Duncan ,  H  D 
Duncan,  Prest.  H  A 
Dunton,  Henry 
Durham,  A  K 
Durham,  J  D 
Dupre,  L 
Eirle,  T  J 

Easterling,  T  W  (*L.) 
Edwards,  Prof  PC 
Edwards,  R  J 
E  kin,  W  B 
Ezell,  J 
Fail,  N 

Fant,  D  J  (*l.) 
Felder,  C 
Fenley,  L 
Fewox,  J 
Ferguson,  B 
Flemming,  J  J 
Fort,  A.  H 
Fox,  Wm 
Frean,  Thog 
Fuller,  R  W 
F  irman,  J  C.  D  D 
Furman,  R 
Furman,  Saml 
Furze,  J  J 
Gains.  N 

Gaines,  T  R  (*L.) 
Gambrell,  J  M 
Garrison,  J  (*L.) 
Getzen,  S  P 
Gilbert,  J 
G  bbes,  J  (*l) 
Givens.  P 
Gordon,  Wm  (*l.) 
Graham,  N 
Green,  J  C 
Grimes,  G  C 
Gwalieney ,  L  R 
Gwin,  W  W 
Gwin,  T  D 
Gwin,  J  T 
Hariin,  W  H 
Havin,  T  M 
Hays,  B 
Head,  E 
Head,  S 

Hicks,  G  W  [*l.] 


POST  OFFICES. 

Greenville 
Gowensville 
Highland  Grove 

Mount  Willing 
Woodruff* 

Barnwell,  CH 
Greenville 
Merritt's  Bridge 
D>ko 
Cedar  Falls 
Darlington 
Gowensville 

Greenville 
Orangeburg 
Doko 

Limestone  Springs 

Hickory  Head 

Blackstock 

Winnsboro' 

West  Union 

Si  George 
u  u 

Sumter 
Lexington,  C  H 
Walterboro' 
Columbia 
Beaufort 
Greenville 

Stateburg 
Speedwell 
Lime  Creek 

Calhoun 
'  FonH-ll 
Hamburg 
Fountain  Inn 
Fair  Forest 
Beaufort 
Union,  C  H 
Sumter 
Pleasant  Grove 
Lauren*,  C  H 
Edgefield 
Ridgeway 

Greenville 
<  t 

Bell's 
Friendship 
Anderson ,  C  H 
Tunnell  Hill 
Sandereville 
Greenville 


Hicks,  E 
Higgins,  J  B 
Hilliard,  D 
Hill  J  W 
Hill,  W  P 
Hinton,  L  C 
Hinton,  James 
Hiit,  W 
Holder,  B 
Holland,  E  D 
Hoover,  J  M 
Horn,  A 
Hern,  E 
Hudson,  D 
Huffman ,  J  C 
Hughson,  W  E 
Humphrey,  R  M  [*l 
Hiers,  M 
Huxford,  P  Sr 
Huxford,  P  Jr 
I.bell,  Saml 
Jackson,  B  A 
Jeter,  F  C 
Jeter,  K 

Johnson,  WB.  D  D 
Johnson,  W  S 
Johnson,  A  T 
Jones,  J  C 
Jones,  W 
Jones,  W  T 
Kendrick,  J  R 
Kendrich,  J  G 
Kennemur, 
King,  R 
Kitchens,  W  D 
Knight  S 
Lugroon,  J 
Landrum,  J  G 
Lankford,  W 
Lann,  W  J 
Lanneau.  C  H 
Lawton,  J  J 
Lawton,  J  A 
Lawton,  J  S 
Lawton ,  W  A 
Leavell,  J 
Lecrov ,  H 
Lee,  U  H 
Linder,  J  S 
Lindsay,  E 
Littlejuhn,  F  W 
Long,  J  L 
Long,  W  B  f*L.] 
Looper,  T 
Lynes,  Saml 
Lynes,  G 


POST  OFFICES  . 

Flintville 
Columbia 
Spartanburg 
St,  George 
Greenwood 
Chesterville 
St  George 
Spring  Grove 
Tweive  Mile 
West  Union 
Buford's  Bridge 
Lou's 

Pickens,  C  H 
St  Mathews 
Camden 
Friendship 
Walkers7 


Fair  Play 
Man'on,  C  H 
Fish  Dam 

Greenville 

Granileville 

Mount  Zion 

Rogersville 
1 < 

Mount  Crogan 
Charleston 
Pi.  ckneyville 
Pickens,  C  H 
Belton 
Call  oun 
Scuffletown 
Lotts' 
Fort  Prince 
Gowensville 
Timmonsviile 
Greenville 
Allendale 


Lawtonville 
Anderson,  C  H 
Fruit  Hill 
Columbia 
Walkers' 
Holland 
Hurricane  Shoals 
Mount  Will  ng 
Anderson,  C  H 
Dacusville 
Monks'  Corner 


LIST  OF  MINISTERS. 


41 


McGuffin,  A  W 
Mahoney,  H  W 
McLemore,  J  0 
Mackerevill,  James 
Martin,  W  J 
Martin,  W  P 
Martin,  J  H  [l.] 
Mason,  T 
Masters,  G  W 
Matthis,  J 
Mauldin,  B  F 
Mellicharap,  T  W 
Mendenhall,  J  K 
M  01  cock,  W 
Morris,  E 
Morse,  W  L 
Morton,  W  M 
Motes,  J 
Mullinax,  M 
Murray,  J  S 
Mayes,  J  F  B 
Nance,  J  C 
Napier,  R 
Nicholes,  I 
Nicholson,  P 
Nix,  J 

Norman,  J  L  ' 
Norris,  A  P 
Norton,  R  W 
Owen,  J 
Owens,  W  C 
Page,  B 
Parker,  L 
Perryclear,  J  S  [*l 
Parott,  B  F 
Peterson,  JF 
Phelps,  J  C 
Perry,  B  F  D 
Perry,  E 
Pickett,  G  W 
Porter,  C  M 
Powell,  S 
Prickett,  J  D  (*l) 
Profit,  J  R 
Peabody,  C  W 
Ray,  J  J 
Ray,  Thos 
Reynolds,  Prof  J  L. 
Rice,  A 
Rice,  W  D 
Richards,  Wra 
Robertson,  T 
Roper,  C 
Rogers,  J  E 
Rollings,  G 


POST  OFFICES. 

West  Union 
Friendship. 
Williston 
Darlington,  C  H 
Marion,  C  H 
Gentsville 
Laurens 
'  Camden 
Anderson 
Mallohon 
Williamston 
White  Cane 
Camden 
Lawtonville 
Graniteville 
Effingham 
Bachelors'  Retreat 
Mountville 
Pinckneyville 
Anderson 
New  Market 
Wellsville 
Mars  Bluff 
Privateer 
Pineville,  N  C 
Steep  Bottom 
Cross  Keys 
Graniteville 
Sumter 
Pickens,  C  H 
Fort  Mill 
Fingerville 
Walterboro' 
Beaufort 
Darlington,  C  H 
Richardson 
Society  Hill 
Barnwell 
Gillisonville 
Chesterville 
Ridgewood 
Travellers'  Rest 
Lewisville 
Chappell  Depot 
Bennettsville 
Blackville 
Cross  Keys 
Columbia 
Storeville 
Sumter 
Savannah,  Ga 
Scuffletown 
Twelve  Mile 
Camdeu 
Pleasant  View 


DD 


NAMES 

Rollings,  L  P 
Rollings,  J  L 
Roper  T  L 
Ross,  John 
Royall,  Prof  W 
Ritcher,  S 
Run  ion,  J  M 
Sams,  Prof  M  W 
Saunders,  W  T 
Sawyer,  S 
Scruggs,  D 
Seymour,  J  E  H 
Sharp,  M  G 
Simmons,  D 
Singleton,  W  B 
Snider,  W  J 
Spruell,  S 
Stacey,  C 
Stepp,  A  C 
Stiles,  CA[*t.] 
Stone,  M  F 
Stough,  A  D 
Suares,  M  R 
Sullivan,  N 
Sweat,  B  S 
Sweat,  J  T 
Thomas,  JAW 
Timmons,  J  M 
Trapp,  John 
Turner,  R 
Van  diver,  H 
Vann,  R  R 
Vaughn,  J  0 
Vaughn,  R 
Vernon,  J  T  W 
Walker,  George 
Wallace,  W  L 
Watkins,  W 
Watkins,Z 
Weaver,  J  M  [j 
West,  John 
Whately,  E  L 
Whilden,  B  W 
Whilden,  R  F 
Willbanks,  S 
Wilkins,  S  B 
Williams,  A 
Williams.  J  G 
Williams,  T  F 
Wilson,  J  J 
Walters,  W  E 
Wilson,  James 
Winkler,  E  T 
Woodruff,  R 
Woodward,  S  C 


POST  OFFICES. 

Pleasant  River 
Murry's  Ferry 
North  Saluda 
Columbia 
Greenville 
Walterboro 
Mush  Creek 
Greenville 
Springtown 
Willow  Swamp 
Cowpens 
Union  C  H 
Columbia 
Townville 
Fowler's  Creek 
White  Cane 
Simpson's  Mills 
Jordon's  Mills 
Line  Creek 
Sumter 
Halseyville 
Wheb's  Store,  N  C 
Barnwell 
Walhalla 
Midway 
Steep  Bottom 
Bennettsville 
Timmon8ville 
Phoenix 
Spartanburg 
Silver  Glade 
Long  Run 
Cross  Roads 
Union,  C  H 
Rogerville 
Walker's 
Manning 
Orangeburg 
Coleman's  Cross  Roads 


[*L.] 


Friendfield 
Whitstown 
Beech  Island 
Walterboro' 
Darlington 
Silver  Glade 
Leavenworth 
Donald's 
Robertsville 
Felix 
Silver  Glade 
Anderson,  C  H 
Piercetown 
Charleston 
Woodruff 
Willistou 


42 


LIST  OF  MINTSTEBS. 


NAMES 

Woodward,  J  A 
Woodward,— 
Youmans,  J  N" 
Young,  J  W  [*L.] 
Youug,  V 


POST  OFFICE 

Williston 
Little  Pee  Dee 
Jlardyville 

Hodges' 


NAMES 

Zealy,  J  T 
Zeigler,  L  G 
Zeigler,  Lewia 
ZeiglerJ  J  A 


POST  OFFICE 

Doko> 
Bull  Swamp 
Tylers 
Kitchen's  Mill 


1 


It 


* 


