286.1757 
B22m 

1  fi58 


9)j  MINUT'ES  I? 

1 

THIRTY-EIGHTH  ANNIVERSARY 

OF  THE 

STATE  CONVENTION 


BAPTIST  DENOMINATION 

IN  SOUTH-CAROLINA, 

HELD  AT  GREENVILLE, 

JULY  24-27,  1858. 


TOGETHER  WITH 


AN  ABSTRACT  OF  THE  PROCEEDINGS 

OF  THE 

BOARD  OF  TRUSTEES  OF  FURMAN  UNIVERSITY, 

HELD  AT  THE  SAME  TIME  AND  PLACE. 


? 

CHARLESTON,    S.    C.  ^ 

JAMES    AND    WILLIAMS,  PRINTERS, 


•T  G  STATE-STREET. 

W   18  5  8. 


CO 


MINUTES 

OF  THE 

THIRTY-EIGHTH  ANNIVERSARY 

OF  THE 

STATE  CONVENTION 

OF  THE 

BAPTIST  DENOMINATION 

IN  SOUTH-CAROLINA, 

HELD  AT  GREENVILLE, 

JULY  3-1-27,  1858. 

TOGETHER  WIPH 

AN  ABSTRACT  OF  THE  PROCEEDINGS 

OF  THE 

BOARD  OF  TRUSTEES  OF  FURMAN  UNIVERSITY, 

HELD  AT  THE  SAME  TIME  AND  PLACE. 


CHARLESTON,    S .    C . 

JAMES    AND    WILLIAMS,     P 11  INTERS, 
16  STATE-STREET. 
18  5  8. 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2014 


https://archive.org/details/minutesofthirtyeOOsout 


MINUTES. 


Saturday,  July  24th,  1858, 

The  introductory  sermon  was  preached  at  10  J  A.  M.,  by 
Rev.  J.  C.  Phelps,  from  John  3:8,  after  which  the  Convene 
tion  met  and  proceeded  to  organize.  Neither  the  President 
nor  Vice-President  being  present,  Hon.  J4  B.  O'Neall,  was 
called  to  the  chair.  The  credentials  of  delegates  were  then 
called  for,  and  the  following  list  was  made  out : 

Charleston  Association. — T.  Mason,  J.  K.  Mendenhall,  W.  D, 
Rice,  J.  Boykin,  B.  C*  Pressley,  A.  A.  Nettles,  J.  G.  Pressley, 
James  Tindal,  E.  J.  Pugh,  T.  G.  Pegues,  E.  Pringle,  T.  Y* 
Walsh,  S.  Watson,  W.  J.  Snider,  W.  B.  Elkin. 

Edgefield  Association,— J .  M.  Chiles,  W.  P.  Hill,  Z.  Watkins, 
W.  N.'  Moore,  W.  Smith,  T.  Lake,  T.  P.  Shaw,  S.  B.  Brooks, 

Welsh  Neck  Association. — J.  0.  B.  Dargan,  T*  P.  Lide,  E.  J, 
Lide,  R.  G.  Edwards,  I.  D.  Wilson,  J.  C.  Phelps,  T.  E.  Hart, 
K.  F.  Whilden,  T.  E.  Howie. 

Savannah  River  Association. — J.  M.  C.  Breaker,  H.  D.  Dun- 
can, A.  J.  Lawton,  J.  S.  Lawton,  I.  L.  Brookes,  B.  H.  Brown, 
W.  B.  Carson,  H.  A.  Duncan,  M.  W.  Sams. 

Tiger  River  Association.- — P.  Furman,  J.  P.  Boyce,  C,  J, 
Elford,  J.  G.  Landrum,  A.  B.  Woodruff,  T.  J,  Earle,  T.  P. 
Brockman,  C.  H.  Judson,  P.  C.  Edwards,  W.  Royall,  J.  C. 
Furman,  T.  B.  Roberts,  C.  R.  Twitty,  R.  P.  Goodlett,  J.  C. 
Green. 

Reedy  River  Association. — T.  J.  Pearce,  T.  D.  Gwin,  S, 
Barksdale,  B.  F.  Griffin,  James  Harrison. 

Saluda  Association.- — W.  B.  Johnson,  A.  Rice,  J.  Kay,  E. 
Rasor,  W.  A.  Gaines,  D.  J.  Barnett. 

Salem  Association. — H.  A.  Glenn,  J.  T.  Gwin. 


4 


MINUTES. 


Bethel  Association. — Not  represented. 

Edisto  Association.- — W.  Brooker,  E.  W.  Horn. 

Charleston  Female  Missionary  and  Education  Society. — Not 
represented. 

Broad  Biver  Bible  Society. — Not  represented. 

Young  Men's  Missionary  Society  of  Fur  man  University. — E. 
W.  Horn,  J.  M.  Lawton. 

Newberry  Church.— J.  B.  O'Neall,  J.  B.  Carwile,  J.  J. 
Brantly. 

Newberry  District  Bible  Society. — G.  T.  Scott,  J.  D.  Nance. 

Enoree  Association.— J .  M.  Runyon,  W.  McKinney. 

Twelve  Mile  Association. — Not  represented* 

The  Convention  then  proceeded  to  ballot  for  officers,  with  • 
the  following  result :  Hon.  J.  B.  O'Neall,  President ;  Rev.  J. 
G.  Landrum,  Vice-President ;  Rev.  J.  J.  Brantly,  Secretary  ; 
T.  B.  Roberts,  Treasurer.  The  Convention  being  thus  or- 
ganized proceeded  to  business,  after  prayer  by  Rev.  Dr. 
Johnson. 

Applications  for  admission  into  this  Convention  were  then 
presented  by  the  Barnwell  Association,  Santee  Bible  Society, 
and  Antioch  Bible  Society.  On  motion  the  applications  were 
received  and  the  delegates  from  these  bodies  took  their  seats. 
From  Barnwell  Association,  D.  H.  Rice,  Robert  Kirkland  ; 
from  Santee  and  Antioch  Bible  Societies,  W.  J.  Snider. 

In  advance  of  the  regular  appointments,  the  committee  on 
preaching  was  appointed  as  follows  :  The  Pastor  and  Deacons 
of  the  Greenville  Church,  and  T.  P.  Lide,  J.  G,  Pressley,  W. 
J.  Snider. 

It  was  resolved  that  during  the  continuance  of  this  meet- 
ing, the  Convention  shall  meet  at  10  A.  M.,  and  4  P.  M.,  and 
adjourn  at  1  P.  M.,  and  6J  P.  M. 

The  Convention  then  went  into  recess. 


Saturday — Afternoon  Session. 
The  Convention  met  pursuant  to  resolution,  the  President 
in  the  chair. 


MINUTES. 


5 


Rev.  E.  T.  Winkler,  appointed  to  preacli  the  Charity  Ser 
mon,  being  absent,  Rev.  J.  M.  C.  Breaker,  was  chosen  by  the 
voice  of  the  Convention  to  fill  his  place. 

The  chair  then  announced  the  standing  committees  as  fol- 
lows : 

On  time  and  place  of  next  meeting,  and  persons  to  perform 
stated  religious  services.' — J.  0.  B.  Dargan,  J.  G.  Pressley,  J. 
G.  Landrum,  W.  Brooker,  J.  D.  Nance. 

On  Accounts.— J.  B.  Carwile,  G.  T.  Scott,  W.P.  Hill,  T.  J. 
Earle,  J.  Boykin. 

On  nomination  of  the  Board  of  Agents. — J.  P.  Boyce,  Z.  Wat- 
kins,  C.  H.  Juclson,  H.  D.  Duncan,  A.  Rice. 

On  preparing  list  of  Blinisters  and  their  post  offices. — J. 
K.  Mendenhall,  T.  P.  Lide,  W.  B.  Elkin,  A.  J.  Lawton,  E. 
Rasor. 

On  notice  of  deceased  ministers. — J.  L.  Brookes,  R.  Furman, 
J.  C.  Phelps,  J.  D.  Wilson,  W.  Royall. 

On  minutes  and  letters  of  corresponding  bodies. — J.  C.  Furman, 
P.  C.  Edwards,  W.  B.  Carson,  J.  M.  C.  Breaker. 

On  motion  an  invitation  was  extended  to  ministering 
brethren  of  our  own  denomination  not  delegates  to  this  body, 
to  ministers  of  other  evangelical  denominations,  and  to  the 
representatives  of  bodies  whose  objects  are  kindred  to  those 
of  this  Convention  to  take  seats  in  the  Convention.  Where- 
upon brother  L.  M.  Berry,  Rev.  M.  T.  Sumner,  Financial 
Secretary  of  the  Domestic  and  Indian  Mission  Board  of  the 
Southern  Baptist  Convention,  Rev.  John  Mitchell,  of  North 
Carolina,  and  Rev.  Mr.  Cator,  of  the  Presbyterian  Church, 
accepted  the  invitation.  Brother  James  H.  Low,  of  New 
Orleans,  was  also  invited  to  a  seat. 

Rev.  J.  P.  Boyce  announced  himself  as  the  representative 
of  the  Foreign  Mission  Board,  in  the  absence  of  its  agent. 

On  motion  a  committee  of  five  was  raised  to  nominate  a 
new  Board  of  Trustees  of  Furman  University.  Committee 
consisted  of  J.  0.  B.  Dargan,  C.  J.  Elford,  B.  II.  Brown,  J.  S. 
Lawton,  B.  F.  Griffin. 

By  permission  of  the  Convention,  Rev.  Mr.  Cator,  agent  of 
the  "  Christian  Union,"  addressed  the  body  on  the  objects  of 
his  agency. 


6 


MINUTES. 


The  report  of  the  Bible  Board  was  read  and  ordered  to  be 
printed,  and  will  be  found  nnder  head  of  Reports  No.  2. 

On  motion  the  Board  of  Trustees  of  Furman  University 
were  requested  to  report  on  the  condition  of  the  University, 
before  the  election  of  the  new  Board. 

A  committee  of  five  was  appointed  to  nominate  delegates 
to  the  next  Biennial  Convention,  to  be  held  in  Richmond, 
Va.,  in  May,  1859.  Committee  consisted  of  J.  S.  Lawton,  Z, 
Watkins,  D.  H.  Rice,  S.  Barksdale,  J.  Ray. 

The  hour  for  adjournment  having  arrived,  the  Convention 
adjourned  after  prayer  by  Rev.  T.  Mason,  to  meet  on  Monday, 
at  10  A.  M. 


Sunday,  July  25. 
The  Charity  Sermon  was  preached  in  the  Baptist  Church 
at  10J  A.  M.,  by  Rev.  J.  M.  C.  Breaker.  In  the  afternoon 
and  at  night  there  was  preaching  in  this  church  ;  and  the 
pulpits  of  the  Presbyterian  and  Methodist  Churches  were 
also  occupied  during  the  day  by  members  of  the  Convention. 
After  the  Charity  Sermon  in  the  morning,  a  collection, 
amounting  to  $90.19,  was  made. 


Monday,  July  26th— Moening  Session. 

The  Convention  met  at  10  o'clock,  the  President  in  the 
chair.  Prayer  was  offered  by  Rev.  J.  M.  Chiles,  after  which 
the  Convention  proceeded  to  business. 

The  Treasurer's  report  was  submitted  and  referred  to  the 
Committee  on  Accounts. 

The  report  of  the  committee  to  nominate  the  Board  of  ' 
Agents  was  submitted  and  adopted,  and  will  be  found  under 
head  of  Reports,  No.  3. 

On  motion  it  was  ordered  that  the  collection  made  on  Sun- 
day morning  ($90.19,)  be  divided  equally  between  the  Domes- 


MINUTES. 


7 


tic  and  Indian  Mission  Board,  and  the  Foreign  Mission  Board 
of  the  Southern  Baptist  Convention,  and  the  Education  Board 
of  this  Convention. 

A  committee  of  seven  was  raised  to  consider  whether  it  be 
advisable  to  make  any  change  in  the  present  organization  of 
the  Boards  of  this  Convention,  and  the  reports  of  the  several 
Boards  were  ordered  to  be  referred  to  this  committee.  Com- 
mittee consisted  of  J.  P.  Boyce,  W.  B.  Elkin,  J.  K.  Menden- 
hall,  T.  P.  Lide,  P.  C.  Edwards,  J.  M.  Chiles,  T.  J.  Pearce. 

The  report  of  the  General  Agent  was  read  and  referred  to 
a  special  committee,  consisting  of  the  Committee  on  Ac- 
counts and  the  corresponding  Secretaries  of  the  several 
Boards. 

By  the  consent  of  the  Convention,  Rev.  M.  T.  Sumner, 
then  presented  the  claims  of  the  Domestic  and  Indian  Mis- 
sion Board. 

The  report  of  the  committee  to  nominate  a  new  Board  of 
Trustees,  was  read  and  ordered  to  lie  on  the  table  until  the 
report  of  the  Board  of  Trustees  be  presented. 

The  report  of  the  Committee  on  Minutes  and  Letters  of 
corresponding  bodies,  was  read  and  adopted,  and  will  be 
found  under  head  of  Reports,  No.  4. 

The  report  of  the  committee  to  nominate  delegates  to  the 
Biennial  Convention,  was  submitted  and  adopted,  and  will  be 
found  under  head  of  Reports,  No,  5, 

The  Convention  then  went  into  recess, 


Monday— Afternoon  Session, 
The  Convention  met  and  was  called  to  order  by  the  Pre- 
sident. 

Leave  of  absence  was  granted  to  several  members  for  suffi- 
cient reasons. 

The  report  of  the  committee  on  Accounts,  on  the  Treasu- 
rer's report,  was  submitted  and  concurred  in,  and  will  be 
found  under  head  of  Reports,  No.  6. 


8 


MINUTES. 


The  report  of  the  agent  of  the  Convention,  Eev.  J.  P. 
Boyce,  appointed  to  raise  funds  in  this  State  for  the  Southern 
Baptist  Theological  Seminary,  was  submitted  and  referred  to 
a  special  committee  of  seven,  consisting  of  H.  A.  Duncan,  J. 
G.  Landrum,  J.  M.  Chiles,  T.  P.  Lide,  W.  Brooker,  J.  Harri- 
son, I.  L.  Brookes. 

The  report  of  the  special  committee  to  which  was  referred 
the  report  of  the  general  agent,  was  submitted  and  concurred 
in,  and  will  be  found  under  head  of  Reports,  No.  7. 

The  report  of  the  committee  on  the  difficulties  between 
the  Edgefield  Association  and  the  Edgefield  Church,  was  re- 
ceived as  information.  The  committee  reported  the  difficul- 
ties settled. 

The  report  of  the  Education  Board  was  submitted  and  re- 
ferred to  the  committee  appointed  to  consider  the  expedi- 
ency of  reorganizing  the  Boards  of  the  Convention,  and  will 
be  found  under  head  of  Reports,  No.  8. 

The  report  of  the  Board  of  Missions,  Publication  and  Col- 
portage,  was  submitted  and  referred  to  the  same  committee, 
and  will  be  found  under  head  of  Reports,  No.  9. 

Brother  James  H.  Low  and  Bro.  M.  T.  Sumner,  by  consent 
of  the  Convention,  made  an  appeal  in  behalf  of  the  "  Coliseum 
Place  Baptist  Church,"  in  New  Orleans.  Pledges  were  given 
by  several  members  to  act  as  voluntary  agents  in  behalf  of 
the  church  to  raise  the  amount  needed  to  clear  it  of  debt. 

The  following  letter  from  Dr.  Reynolds,  late  President  of 
this  Convention,  was  read  and  ordered  to  be  printed  in  the 
minutes. 

Columbia,  July  22nd,  1858. 

To  the  members  of  the  Baptist  Convention, ) 
of  the  State  of  South  Carolina.  f 
Dear  and  honored  Brethren  : — It  was  my  desire  and  my  intention,  to  attend 
your  meeting,  that  I  might  in  your  presence  lay  down  the  honorable  office  to 
which  you  appointed  me  last  year,  and  thank  you  most  sincerely  and  earnestly 
for  the  kindness  which  prompted  your  choice.  Under  the  peculiar  circum- 
stances nothing  could  have  been  more  grateful  to  my  feelings — nothing  better 
suited  to  strengthen  the  ties  which  bind  me  to  my  beloved  and  honored 
brethren. 

I  cannot  be  with  you,  but  I  offer  my  poor  prayers  that  the  God  and  Father 
of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  may  bless  you  abundantly,  "  that  the  name  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  may  be  glorified  in  you,  and  ye  in  him,  according  to  the  grace  of 
our  God  and  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 

Yours  in  the  faith  and  patience  of  the  Gospel, 

J.  L.  REYNOLDS. 


MINUTES. 


9 


The  report  of  the  Sunday  School  Board  was  submitted  and 
referred  to  the  Committee  on  Boards,  and  will  be  found  un- 
der head  of  Reports,  No.  10. 

The  report  of  the  committee  on  time  and  place  of  next 
meeting,  &c,  was  submitted  and  agreed  to  and  will  be  found 
under  head  of  Reports,  No.  1. 

The  Convention  then  adjourned  after  prayer  to  meet  to- 
morrow, at  10,  A,  M. 


Tuesday,  July  27th — Morning  Session. 

The  Convention  met  and  was  called  to  order  by  the  Pre- 
sident. After  prayer  by  Rev,  H.  A.  Duncan,  the  Convention 
proceeded  to  business. 

The  report  of  the  Board  of  Trustees  on  the  condition  of 
Furman  University,  was  submitted  and  referred  to  a  special 
committee  of  five,  to  report  this  afternoon  at  4J  o'clock. 
Committee  consisted  of  J.  P.  Boyce,  J.  M.  C.  Breaker,  B.  H. 
Brown,  S.  Barksdale,  T.  J.  Pearce. 

The  committee  to  which  was  referred  the  report  of  the 
agent  of  the  Convention,  appointed  to  raise  funds  in  this  State 
for  the  Southern  Theological  Seminary,  submitted  their  re- 
port which  was  concurred  in,  and  will  be  found  under  head  of 
Reports,  No.  11. 

The  Agent,  Rev.  Prof.  Boyce,  then  addressed  the  Conven- 
tion, and  urged  the  necessity  of  raising  at  once  the  $5,000  still 
needed  to  complete  the  $100,000  pledged  by  this  State.  Some 
money  pledges  were  given,  and  several  members  volunteered 
to  act  as  agents  in  collecting  the  amount  required. 

The  report  of  the  committee  on  Deceased  Ministers,  was 
read  and  concurred  in,  and  will  be  found  under  head  of  Re- 
ports, No.  13. 

The  following  resolution  was  unanimously  adopted  : 

Resolved,  That  the  thanks  of  this  body  are  due,  and  are  hereby  tendered  to 
the  Rev.  James  P.  Boyce,  for  the  prudence  with  which  he  has  managed,  and 
the  untiring  energy  with  which  he  has  prosecuted,  the  work  to  which  he  was 
appointed  as  their  agent  by  this  Convention  at  its  last  meeting. 


10  MINUTES. 

The  report  of  the  committee  on  preparing  a  list  of  minis- 
ters and  their  post  offices,  was  submitted  and  concurred  in, 
and  will  be  found  at  the  end  of  these  minutes. 

The  Convention  then  went  into  recess. 


Tuesday— Afternoon  Session, 
The  Convention  met  and  was  called  to  order  by  the  Presi- 
dent. 

The  report  of  the  committee  on  the  reorganization  of 
Boards,  was  submitted  and  agreed  to,  and  will  be  found  under 
head  of  Beports,  No.  14, 

A  committee  of  five  was  appointed  to  nominate  the  Boards 
of  the  Convention,  Committee  consisted  of  J.  K.  Menden- 
hall,  E.  F.  Whilden,  W,  B.  Carson,  E.  J.  Lide,  W.  Smith. 

The  report  of  the  special  committee  to  which  was  referred 
the  report  of  the  Board  of  Trustees  on  the  condition  of  the 
University,  was  submitted  and  agreed  to,  and  will  be  found 
under  head  of  Eeports  No.  15. 

The  Convention  then  proceeded  to  elect  a  new  Board  of 
Trustees,  voting  by  associations,  the  votes  being  based  on 
the  amount  contributed  by  each  associationn  to  the  Univer- 


sity fund  as  follows  : 

Welsh  Neck  Association  18  votes. 

Charleston,  "  13  u 

Savannah  Eiver,  "  15  " 

Eeedy  Eiver,       "    9  " 

Salem  "    9  " 

Tiger  Eiver        "    5  « 

Edgefield  "  .,  10  " 

Edisto  "    4  " 


82  " 

The  balloting  resulted  in  the  election  of  the  persons  nomi- 
nated by  the  committee  appointed  to  nominate  a  new  Board, 


MINUTES. 


11 


and  will  be  found  in  their  report  under  head  of  Reports, 
No.  16. 

The  report  of  the  committee  to  nominate  the  Boards  of 
the  Convention  was  submitted  and  agreed  to,  and  will  be 
found  under  head  of  Reports,  No.  17. 

It  was  resolved  that  the  Board  of  Trustees  of  the  Furman 
University  be  requested  to  furnish  at  each  quadrennial  meet- 
ing, at  which  it  shall  bo  the  duty  of  the  Convention  to  elect 
a  new  Board  of  Trustees,  a  statement  of  the  number  of  votes 
to  which  the  respective  constituent  bodies  may  be  entitled. 

The  following  resolutions  were  offered  and  unanimously 
adopted  : 

Resolved,  That  the  thanks  of  this  body  be  returned  to  the  various  railroad 
companies  in  the  State  which  have  allowed  our  delegates  to  pass  over  their 
roads  for  one  fare. 

Resolved,  That  the  thanks  of  this  body  be  presented  to  the  citizens  of  Green: 
ville,  for  their  hospitable  entertainment  of  the  Convention. 

By  special  resolution  an  opportunity  was  then  offered  to 
the  members  of  this  Convention  to  raise  a  fund  of  $50,000  or 
more  for  the  permanent  endowment  of  Furman  University. 
Addresses  setting  forth  the  necessity  of  such  an  endowment 
were  made,  and  pledges  to  a  considerable  amount  were 
given. 

It  was  unanimously  resolved  that  the  acknowledgements 
of  this  body  are  due,  and  are  hereby  tendered  to  the  Hon. 
J.  B.  O'Neall,  for  the  courtesy  and  Christian  kindness  which 
characterized  him  as  its  presiding  officer. 

After  prayer  by  Rev.  H.  D.  Duncan,  the  Convention  ad- 
journed to  meet  at  Sumterville,  on  the  Friday  before  the  last 
Saturday  in  July,  1859. 

JOHN  BELTON  O'NEALL,  President. 

John  J,  Brantly,  Secretary. 


REPORTS. 


1.  REPORT  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  ON  TIME  AND  PLACE  OF  NEXT  MEETING, 
AND  PEKSONS  TO  PERFORM  THE  STATED    RELIGIOUS  SERVICES. 

Your  Committee  recommend  Sumterpille  as  the  place,  and  Friday  before 
the  last  Saturday  in  July,  1859,  as  the  time.  Rev.  Dr.  Furman  to  preach  the 
Introductory  Sermon ;  Rev.  J.  J.  Brantly,  his  alternate.  Rev.  J.  P.  Boyce  to 
preach  the  Charity  Sermon  ;  Rev.  R.  Furman,  his  alternate. 

J.  0.  B.  DARGAN,  Chairman, 


2.  REPORT  OF  THE  BIBLE  BOARD. 

While  the  Bible  Board  are  pleased  in  this,  their  annual  Report,  to  he  able  to 
state  some  encouraging  facts,  they  desire  to  express  their  gratitude  to  Him, 
without  whose  blessing  all  who  labor,  "  labor  in  vain for  whatever  measure 
of  success  may  have  attended  their  efforts  in  the  special  line  of  service  which 
belongs  to  them. 

This  Board  is  now  fairly  under  way  ;  the  difficulties  which  beset  the  com- 
mencement of  every  new  undertaking,  have  been  overcome  by  them  to  a 
considerable  extent  5  and  we  believe,  that  though  there  lie  before  us  a  wide 
field  to  be  occupied,  and  a  large  work  to  be  done,  we  shall  not  fail  of  success, 
under  the  blessing  of  God,  if  we  should  be  sustained  by  the  prayers  and  the 
liberality,  and  the  united  efforts  of  our  brethren  throughout  the  State.  The 
Board,  as  organized  at  present,  is  quite  sufficient  for  the  management  in  thi3 
State  of  the  Bible  cause — at  least  that  part  of  this  common  work  of  all  chris- 
tians, which  belongs  to  us  as  a  denomination.  All  that  we  need  under  God  to 
fulfil  our  most  sanguine  expectations,  is  the  co  operation  of  the  Associations 
and  Churches,  and  of  the  whole  denomination  in  the  State.  It  has  been  asserted 
that  South-Carolina  Baptists  have  done  little  or  nothing  for  the  Bible  cause  ; 
though  this  charge  is  wholly  unfounded,  the  repetition  of  it  may  be  most 
effectually  prevented  by  an  increased  interest  and  zeal  on  our  part  in  this 
cause.  As  Baptists,  professing  to  hold  to  the  Bible  as  the  only  standard  of 
faith  and  conduct,  we  are  under  a  special  obligation  to  circulate  the  Bible. 
The  Board  believe  that  their  brethren  will  not  withhold  from  them  the  support 
which  they  need.  Our  operations,  since  the  organization  of  the  Board,  and 
especially  since  the  beginning  of  the  present  year,  encourage  us  to  cherish  this 
belief. 


REPORTS. 


13 


On  the  1st  of  February  last,  our  agent,  Rev.  W.  B.  Elkin,  entered  on  his 
work,  and  what  has  been  accomplished  by  him  since  then,  will  show  that  the 
Board  have  not  formed  too  high  expectations  of  what  can  be  done  by  the 
denomination  with  proper  efforts.  Since  the  date  just  referred  to,  Brother 
Elkin  has  travelled  through  a  large  portion  of  the  middle  Districts  of  the  State, 
preaching  wherever  he  went,  organizing  Societies,  and  distributing  Bibles. 
The  Societies  now  in  existence,  and  auxiliary  to  the  Board,  amount  in  number 
to  30,  most  of  them  formed  during  the  present  year.  The  number  of  copies  of 
the  Holy  Scriptures  distributed  by  the  Board  since  1856.  amouuts  to  400,  the 
largest  portion  having  been  distributed  within  the  last  six  mouths. 

The  whole  amount  of  funds  received,  expended,  and  still  in  the  hands  of  the 
Treasurer  of  the  Board,  is  as  follows  ; 

Balance  on  hand  from  last  year,        -  $314  59 

Receipts  since  last  meeting,      -       -      -      -      -       953  (30 


Besides  this  balance,  there  are  $500,  which  have  been  subscribed  by  Socie- 
ties, but  not  yet  sent  up  to  the  Treasurer. 

We  propose  to  employ  two  or  more  colporteurs,  or  Bible  distributors,  to 
assist  our  agent  in  this  part  of  his  work,  as  soon  as  our  funds  shall  justify  us 
in  doing  so.  The  agent  cannot  do  the  whole  work  of  seeking  out  the  destitute 
and  supplying  their  wants.  In  order  to  raise  funds  for  the  Board,  he  must 
necessarily  travel  most  in  those  portions  of  the  State  from  which  we  may  hope 
to  receive  pecuniary  help,  and  where,  as  a  general  thing,  there  is  least  desti- 
tution ;  the  destitute  portions  must,  therefore,  be  visited  and  supplied  by 
colporteurs.  Should  we  be  able  to  make  arrangements  with  the  Publication 
Society,  to  employ  colporteurs  jointly  with  us,  it  will  lessen  the  expense  for 
each  organization.  From  what  has  already  been  done,  we  believe  that  some 
$2,000  or  $3,000  can  be  annually  raised  in  the  State  for  the  Bible  cause.  This 
will  enable  us  to  keep  our  agent  constantly  in  the  Geld,  to  employ  several  dis- 
tributors, and  leave  quite  enough  for  the  purchase  of  Bibles.  What  may  not 
be  needed  for  our  own  home  purposes,  may  be  turned  over  to  the  Foreign 
Mission  Board  at  Richmond,  or  the  Bible  Board  at  Nashville,  for  printing  the 
Scriptures  ia  foreign  languages,  and  circulating  them  in  foreign  lands.  We 
propose  to  continue  our  agent,  Brother  Elkin,  in  the  field,  and  believe  that 
now,  the  machinery  being  fully  started,  our  expenses  will  be  less  every  year 
in  proportion  to  our  receipts.  The  Board  is  prepared  to  furnish  copies  of  the 
Scriptures  for  distribution  to  any  person  who  may  be  willing  to  act  as  volun- 
tary colporteurs  for  us  ;  until  colporteurs  are  regularly  appointed  by  the 
Board,  we  shall  have  to  depend  mainly  on  this  mode  of  distribution.  We  now 
ask  for  our  agent,  and  for  the  cause  the  earnest  cordial  co  operation  of  this 
Convention,  and  the  Denomination  throughout  the  State, 


Paid  out, 


1,298  49 
704  51 


Balance  on  hand, 


$533  98 


Respectfully  submitted, 

JOHN  J.  BRANTLY,  Cor.  Sec. 


14 


REPORTS. 


3.  REPORT  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  TO  NOMINATE  A  BOARD  OF  AGENTS. 

Your  Committee  nominate  the  following  "Board  of  Agents :"  Rev,  "Dr. 
Johnson,  Rev.  J.  R.  Kendrick,  Rev.  J.  0.  B.  Dargan,  Rev.  R.  Furman,  B.  C. 
Pressley,  and  the  officers  of  the  Convention. 

J.  P.  BOYCE,  Chairman. 


4.  REPORT  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  ON  MINUTES,    AND    LETTERS   OF  CORRES- 
PONDING BODIES. 

Your  Committee  beg  leave  to  Report,  that  beside  these  communications, 
which  have  been  acted  on  by  the  Convention,  no  others  have  come  to  their 
knowledge. 

J.  C.  FURMAN.  Chairman. 


5.    REPORT    OF   THE   COMMITTEE   TO  NOMINATE   DELEGATES   TO  THE 
BIENNIAL  CONVENTION. 

Your  Committee  beg  leave  to  make  the  following  nomination  :  Hon.  J.  B. 
O'Neal],  Rev.  L  L.  Brookes,  Rev.  J.  J.  Brantly,  Rev.  Dr.  Johnson,  Rev.  Dr, 
Curtis,  Rev.  Dr.  Manly,  Rev.  H.  D.  Duncan,  Rev.  J.  P.  Boyce,  Rev.  J.  G. 
Landrum,  Rev.  H.  A.  Duncan,  Rev.  J.  0.  B.  Dargan,  Rev.  R.  Furman,  T.  P. 
Lide,  Rev.  W.  B.  Carson,  Rev.  J.  M.  C.  Breaker,  Rev.  J.  M.  Chiles,  Rev.  E. 
T,  Winkler,  B.  C.  Pressley. 

J.  S.  LAWTON,  Chairman. 
The  name  of  the  Chairman,  J.  S.  Lawton,  was  also  added  by  the  Convention. 

6.  REPORT  OF  THE    "COMMITTEE    ON    ACCOUNTS,1'   ON    THE  TREASURER'S 

REPORT. 

The  Committee  on  accounts  beg  leave  to  report,  that  they  have  examined 
the  Treasurer's  Report,  and  find  it  correctly  stated,  and  properly  vouched. 

JOHN  B.  CARWILE,  Chairman. 


7.  REPORT  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  TO  WHTCH    WAS    REFERRED    THE  REPORT 
OF  THE  GENERAL  AGENT. 

The  Committee  to  which  was  referred  the  report  of  the  General  Agent, 
appointed  by  this  Convention,  in  July,  1856,  beg  leave  to  report  :  That  they 
have  examined  the  same,  and  find  that  the  agent  has  only  stated  his  receipts, 
and  not  his  payments,  and  that  he  has  not  stated  the  amounts  paid  to  him  by 
the  several  Boards  respectively.  They  would,  therefore,  recommend  that  the 
report  be  referred  back  to  the  General  Agent,  and  that  he  be  requested  to 
make  a  full  statement  of  his  payments  as  well  as  receipts,  and  also  of  the 
amount  paid  him  on  account  of  his  salary,  by  the  several  Boards,  and  the 


REPORTS. 


15 


Treasurer  of  the  Furraan  University,  respectively  ;  and  if  the  same  cannot  be 
done  before  the  adjournment  of  this  body,  that  his  report,  when  so  amended, 
be  referred  to  the  Board  of  agents  tor  adjustment. 

JOHN  B.  CAR  WILE,  Chairman. 


8.  REPORT  OF  THE  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION. 

In  the  absence  of  the  Corresponding  Secretary,  who  has  been  prevented  from 
attending  this  meeting,  I  beg  leave  to  report  that  the  Board  has  oue  benefi- 
ciary, but  is  without  funds.  Brother  Golder  has  been  in  part  sustained  by 
advances  from  two  members  of  the  Board.  There  is  enough  due  to  refund 
advances  made,  and  the  sum  of  $58  55  has  been  received  during  the  present 
session. 

Respectfully  submitted, 

T.  P.  LIDE, 

for  the  Cor.  Sec. 


REPORT  OF  THE  BOARD  OF  MISSIONS,  PUBLICATION,  AMD  COLPORTAGE. 

Nothing  has  been  accomplished  during  the  year  for  missions,  publication, 
or  colportage:  Not  one  dollar  has  been  received.  We  do  not  feel  authorized 
to  employ  an  agent,  without  having  some  prospect  of  remunerating  him. 

During  the  first  six  months  of  the  year,  a  missionary  was  employed  in 
Richland  District,  under  the  "Entzminger  Fund."  The  labors  of  this  Brother, 
Rev.  W.  B.  Elkin.  were  attended  with  the  most  gratifying  success.  Thr  pro- 
ceeds of  the  fund  for  six  months,  $212  50,  were  paid  to  the  missionary  for 
services  rendered.  Owing  to  the  absence  of  the  Chairman  of  the  Board,  the 
report  cannot  be  full,  since  the  report  of  the  missionary  is  in  his  hands. 

J.  K.  MENDENHALL,  Cor.  Sec. 


10.  REPORT  OF  THE  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  BOARD. 

The  Sunday  School  Board  again  presents  itself  to  the  Convention  with 
nothing  to  report,  except  its  deep  regret  that  under  present  circumstances 
they  are  unable  to  effect  any  thing  in  the  important  work  which  has  been  com- 
mitted to  their  trust.  They  feel  convinced  that  the  Sunday  School  cause  is 
not  receiving  that  attention  at  the  hands  of  our  denomination  in  this  State  to 
which  its  power  for  good  entitles  it,  and  that  strenuous  efforts  should  be  made 
to  awaken  an  interest  in  its  behalf.  This  can  only  be  accomplished  through 
an  agent  who  shall  make  the  tour  of  the  State,  to  encourage  and  instruct  old 
schools,  build  up  new  ones,  collect  funds  for  destitute  locations,  and  collect 
statistics  which  will  show  the  value  of  the  institution  and  the  necessity  of 
laboring  in  its  behalf.  We  have  not  yet  seen  any  way  by  which  we  could  se- 
cure or  remunerate  the  services  of  such  an  agent,  and  consequently  have  been 
compelled  to  remain  idle.   But  we  still  hope  for  better  things.   The  cause  is 


1G 


REPORTS. 


too  good  a  one  to  be  abandoned,  and  we  hope  and  recommend  that  the  Con- 
vention Avill  continue  the  existence  of  the  Board,  and  we  trust  that  ere  long 
the  hand  of  God  may  open  up  a  way,  in  which  this  Board  may  go  forward  and 
do  great  things  for  our  Master's  cause,  in  this  department  of  his  vineyard. 

C.  J.  ELFORD,  President. 


11.  REPORT  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  TO  WHICH  WAS  REFERRED  THE  REPORT 
OF  THE  AGENT  TO  RAISE  FUNDS  FOR  THE  "SOUTHERN  BAPTIST  THEO- 
LOGICAL SEMINARY." 

The  committee  to  whom  was  referred  the  report  of  the  general  agent  of  the 
Southern  Baptist  Theological  Seminary  beg  leave  to  submit  the  following  : 

They  recommend  that  the  report  of  the  agent  be  printed  with  the  minutes 
of  the  Convention,  and  that  the  following  resolutions  be  adopted  : 

Resolved,  That  James  P.  Boyce,  Agent  of  the  State  Convention  of  the  Bap- 
tist denomination  in  South  Carolina,  be  authorized  to  transfer  the  bonds  and 
other  funds  collected  for  the  endowment,  of  the  Southern  Baptist  Theological 
Seminary,  to  the  "  provisional  Committee"  of  said  Seminary. 

Resolved,  That  should  the  said  funds  when  collected,  not  prove  equal  to  one 
hundred  thousand  dollars  with  interest,  from  the  first  of  May  last,  the  Con- 
vention will  take  steps  by  an  agent  or  otherwise,  to  make  up  the  deficiency. 

Resolved,  That  steps  be  taken  immediately  to  provide  for  the  five  thousand 
dollars  yet  necessary  to  complete  the  amount  pledged  by  this  Convention. 

H.  A.  DUNCAN,  Chairman. 


12.  REPORT  OF  THE  AGENT   TO  RAISE  FUNDS  FOR  THE  SOUTHERN  BAP- 
TIST THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 

The  agent  appointed  at  the  last  meeting  of  the  Convention  to  raise  the 
money  pledged  by  South  Carolina  towards  the  endowment  of  the  "  Southern 
Baptist  Theological  Seminary,"  begs  leave  respectfully  to  report,  that  he  en- 
tered upon  the  discharge  of  the  duties  assigned  him  immediately  after  the  ad- 
journment of  the  Convention.  He  was  for  the  most  part  cordially  received, 
and  the  amount  of  money  was  nearly  made  up.  In  various  ways  a  sum  amount- 
ing to  within  $5000  of  the  amount  was  raised.  At  the  meeting  of  the  Edu- 
cational Convention  in  May,  this  was  reported  to  that  body,  and  they  passed 
resolutions  accepting  this  as  the  fulfilment  of  the  pledge  made  to  them  upon 
the  condition  that  the  whole  sum  of  one  hundred  thousand  dollars  should  be 
subscribed  by  the  first  of  January,  1859,  and  that  at  the  meeting  of  this  Con- 
vention guarantees  should  be  obtained  for  the  placing  in  the  hands  of  the 
Trustees  of  the  Southern  Baptist  Theological  Seminary,  the  whole  sum  of  one 
hundred  thousand  dollars  with  interest  from  the  first  of  May  last. 

Your  agent  has  taken  the  bonds  payable  to  himself  as  agent  of  this  Con- 
vention. 

It  will  be  necessary  to  pass  an  order  authorizing  him  to  transfer  them  to 


REPORTS. 


17 


the  Provisional  Committee  of  the  Southern  Baptist  Theological  Seminary.  It 
will  also  be  necessary  to  take  steps  to  raise  the  balance  of  the  amount  pledged 
by  South  Carolina,  and  to  pass  such  resolutions  as  shall  assure  the  Trustees 
of  the  Theological  Seminary,  that  should  our  funds  transferred  in  bonds— and 
not  in  cash— prove  not  sufficient  to  meet  our  pledge,  that  the  Convention  will 
cause  to  be  raised  whatever  deficiency  may  appear. 

JAMES  P.  BOYCE, 

Agent  of  the  Baptist  denomination, 

in  South  Carolina. 


13.  REPORT  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  ON  DECEASED  MINISTERS. 

Your  committee  report  that  they  have  ascertained  from  the  delegates  of  the 
bodies  composing  this  Convention,  that  the  following  ministers  have  finished 
their  course,  and  entered  into  their  rest  since  our  meeting  of  last  year.  In  the 
Charleston  Association,  William  Higgins  and  William  Taylor,  (the  latter  a 
licentiate,)  have  finished  the  work  assigned  them,  each  having  filled  a  place  of 
usefulness  in  the  course  of  Christ.  In  the  Welsh  Neck  Association,  James 
Philips,  a  zealous  minister  of  Christ,  and  a  useful  servant  of  the  churches,  has 
been  called  from  his  active  labors  of  many  years,  to  his  reward. 

In  the  Savannah  River  Association,  Samuel  Gibson,  Thomas  Hammett,  and 
Jesse  H.  Center,  have  been  summoned  to  their  final  reward.  Brother  Gibson 
had  passed  a  long  life,  much  of  it  spent  in  active  usefulness,  in  the  Gospel 
ministry.  The  other  two  have  died  young,  and  their  promise  of  great  useful-, 
ness  has  thus  been  cut  short. 

In  the  Barnwell  Association,  John  K.  Johnston,  and  John  Brooker,  have  gone 
to  their  eternal  reward.  Brother  Johnston  had  been  long  in  the  ministry,  and  . 
the  assistance  of  a  classical  education,  we  trust,  was  sanctified  to  the  enhance- 
ment of  his  usefulness.  Brother  Brooker  died  at  a  very  advanced  age,  and 
his  long  and  useful  career  in  the  Gospel  ministry  had  fitted  him  to  finish  his 
course  with  joy,  and  to  receive  the  crown  of  righteousness  which  the  Lord,  our 
righteous  Judge,  will  bestow  upon  all  his  ministers.  We  unite  our  condolence 
with  the  Churches  who  have  been  bereaved  of  the  faithful  services  of  our 
departed  ministering  brethren,  and  ask  them  to  bow  with  us  in  humble  submis. 
sion  to  the  sovereign  will  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 

IVESON  L.  BROOKES,  Chairman. 


14.  REPORT  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  ON  RE-ORGANIZATION   OF    THE  BOARDS. 

Your  Committee  beg  leave  to  report,  that  the  condition  of  the  Boards,  as 
appears  from  their  reports,  is  for  the  most  part  feeble.  Only  one  of  them — 
the  "Bible  Board'- — seems  to  be  doing  anything. 

Looking  at  the  fact,  that  we  have  Association  Missions  throughout  our 
State,  and  a  General  Board  for  the  Southern  States,  one  especially  for  this 
State  seems  not  to  be  necessary.  The  Domestic  Mission  Board  at  Marion  can 
2 


18 


REPORTS. 


do  all  in  the  way  of  General  State  work  which  we  need,  and  do  it  more  effec- 
tually than  we  can.  We,  therefore,' propose,  that  the  Board  of  Missions  at 
Columbia  be  abolished,  and  that  their  work,  so  far  as  the  collection  of  statistics 
is  concerned,  be  transferred  to  the  "  Bible  Board,"  at  Newberry.  Let  the 
"  Eutzminger  Fund  "  now  in  charge  of  the  "  Board  of  Missions,"  be  transferred 
for  the  present  to  a  Committee,  consisting  of  Brethen  Zealy,  McCants,  and 
Harrison,  to  be  held  by  them  until  the  Columbia  Association  shall  become  a 
constituent  of  this  body,  and  then  let  it  be  transferred  to  the  Mission  Board  of 
that  Association,  due  reports  being  annually  made  by  these  parties  to  the 
Convention. 

Your  Committee  also  recommend  that  the  "  Sunday  School  Board  »  and 
colportage  work  be  united,  under  the  name  of  the  "  Board  of  Sunday  Schools 
and  Colportage,"  and  that  it  be  located  at  Darlington  C.  H.;  and  that  the 
Education  Board  located  now  at  Society  Hill  be  removed  to  Greenville. 

By  all  of  these  Boards  the  duty  of  earnest  labor  for  the  Convention  should 
be  felt.  In  order  that  they  may  be  encouraged  to  this,  and  that  the  minds  of 
Brethren  generally  should  be  informed,  your  Committee  recommend  that  the 
report  of  the  "  Bible  and  Mission  Board,"  be  made  the  special  order  for  10£ 
o'clock,  A.  M.,  on  the  second  day  of  the  session  of  the  Convention,  to  be  fol- 
lowed by  addresses  in  its  favor  ;  that  the  report  of  the  Sunday  School  and 
Colportage  Board  be  made  the  special-  order  for  4  1-2  P.  M.  of  the  same  day, 
and  that  of  the  Education  Board  for  10|  A.M.  of  the  third  day  of  the  session 
of  the  Convention,  each  of  these  two  last  mentioned  Boards  having  equal 
privileges  of  addresses  with  the  former  5  it  being,  however,  understood  that 
the  Convention  may,  with  the  consent  of  the  respective  Boards,  alter  these 
i  appointments 

JAMES  P.  BOYCE,  Chairman. 


15.  THE  REPORT  OF  THE    COMMITTEE    TO    WHICH    WAS    REFERRED  THE 
REPORT  OF  THE  BOARD  OF  TRUSTEES,  ON  THE  CONDITION  OF  THE 
FURMAN  UNIVERSITY. 

The  Special  Committee,  to  which  was  referred  the  report  of  the  financial 
condition  of  the  Furman  University,  asked  by  the  Convention  of  its  Board  of 
Trustees,  beg  leave  respectfully  to  present  the  following  remarks,  and  course 
of  action. 

The  Convention  must  recognize  that  the  funds  of  the  University  have  en- 
tirely passed  from  their  immediate  control.  The  Board  of  Trustees  have 
absolute  charge,  and  the  Convention  have  no  longer  the  right  to  demand  an 
account  of  their  stewardship.  In  the  request  made  by  this  Convention,  that 
the  statement  referred  to  above  should  be  made,  the  Convention  has  had  in 
view  the  fact  that  they  have  a  control  over  the  University  from  the  election  of 
its  Board  being  made  by  this  body.  In  the  election  of  the  new  Board,  the 
Convention  has  at  least  the  power  granted  to  constituents  every  where,  of 
stating  the  grounds  upon  which  those  elected  by  them  are  put  into  office.  In 
view  of  the  facts  presented  by  the  Board,  your  Committee  recommend  to  the 
Convention  that  the  following  Resolutions  be  adopted  : 


REPORTS. 


19 


Resolved,  That  in  the  election  of  the  new  Board,  the  Convention  expects  of 
them  that  all  the  sums  contributed  as  principal  towards  the  endowment  of  the 
University,  should  be  held  sacred  from  any  use  for  the  payment  of  its  annual 
expenses  after  the  current  year  ;  this  being  due  to  those  who  have  made  these 
contributions  in  the  form  of  scholarships  and  otherwise. 

Resolved,  That  after  the  lapse  of  twelve  months,  the  expenses  of  the  Univer- 
sity should  be  brought  within  its  income,  and  that  from  the  present  time  such 
retrenchment  as  is  possible  should  be  made. 

Your  Committee  think  that  the  above  resolutions  can  be  carried  out  by  the 
Board,  by  raising  the  price  of  tuition  in  all  the  departments  of  the  University, 
and  particularly  in  the  Academical  department.  They  think,  also,  that  the 
Board  will  be  able,  upon  due  efforts,  to  secure  a  return  to  the  University  of 
the  rights  of  many  parties  upon  the  possession  of  scholarships,  and  that  such 
scholarships  can  be  annulled. 

Your  Committee,  in  making  these  suggestions,  act  in  simple  reference  to  the 
interests  of  the  University;  it  belongs  to  the  Baptists  of  South-Carolina,  and 
we  believe  that  they  wish  to  maintain  it.  Its  present  endowment  is  far  below 
what  many  of  us  think  it  should  be  ;  and  we  believe  that  a  Board  acting  upon 
these  principles  will  secure  the  confidence  ami  co-operation  of  the  Denomina- 
tion. The  University  is  important  to  us  all,  and  we  will  put  it  upon  such  a 
footing  as  shall  secure  to  it  abundant  success  and  usefulness. 

J.  P.  BOYCE,  Chairman, 


16.  REPORT  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  TO  NOMINATE  A  NEW  BOARD  OF  TRUS- 
TEES OF  FURMAN  UNIVERSITY/. 

Your  committee  recommend  the  following  names  :  Rev.  I.  L.  Brookes,  Rev. 
J.  R.  Kendrick,  Rev.  T.  Curtis,  D.  D.,  Rev.  R.  Furman,  Rev.  J.  P.  Boyce,  T.  P. 
Lide,  Esq.,  Hon.  J.  B.  O'Neall,  A.  J.  Lawton,  Rev.  J.  A.  Lawton,  Rev.  J.  J. 
Brantly,  Rev.  J.  M.  Chiles,  Rev.  Z.  Watkins,  Rev,  A.  Rice,  Rev.  H.  D.  Dun- 
can, J.  W.  Brooks,  Rev.  W.  P.  Hill,  Rev.  H.  A.  Duncan,  Rev.  J.  0.  B.  Dargan, 
Rev.  J.  Nicholes,  Rev.  J.  B.  Bealer,  R.  G.  Edwards,  Rev.  W.  Brooker,  J.  D. 
Wilson,  Esq.,  T.  B.  Roberts,  Rev.  J.  G.  Landrum,  B.  C.  Pressley,  P.  E.  Dun- 
can, Rev.  E.  T.  Winkler,  James  Tupper,  Rev.  B.  Manly,  D.  D. 

J.  O.  B.  DARGAN,  Chairman. 

The  above  nomination  was  duly  elected. 


IT.  REPORT  OF  THE    COMMITTEE    TO  NOMINATE  THE    BOARDS  OF  THE 

CONVENTION. 

Your  committee  nominate  the  following  to  constitute  the  Boards  of  the 
Convention : 

Education  Board  to  be  located  at  Greenville. 
President— Rev.  J.  C.  Furman,  D.  D. 
Secretary — Prof .  C.  H.  Judson. 
Treasurer — Rev.  R.  Furman. 

Managers— Rev.  H.  A.  Duncan,  Rev.  P.  C.  Edwards,  G.  F.  Townes. 


20 


REPORTS. 


Bible  and  Mission  Board  to  be  located  at  Newberry. 
President— Hon.  J.  B.  O'Neall. 
Secretary — Rev.  J.  J.  Brantly. 
Treasurer — John  B.  Carwile. 

Managers— W.  H.  Harrington,  G.  T.  Scott,  B.  F.  Griffin,  J.  K.  Gary. 

Sunday  School  and  Colporiage  Board  to  be  located  at  Darlington. 
President— T .  P.  Lide. 
Secretary — Rev.  J.  B.  Bealer. 
Treasurer — Dr.  S.  H.  Pressley. 

Managers— R.  G.  Edwards,  Allen  Mclver,  Rev.  J.  O.  B.  Dargan,  Rev.  J. 
W,  Burn. 

J,  K.  MENDENHALL,  Chairman. 


18.  REPORT  OF  THE  BOARD  OF  TRUSTEES  OF  FURMAN  UNIVERSITY. 

The  Board  of  Trustees  of  "  Furman  University  "  having  been  requested  by 
the  Convention  to  report  the  financial  condition  of  the  University,  beg  leave 
to  make  the  following  report  : 

The  available  funds  of  the  University  after  deducting  all  worthless  bonds, 
amount  to  $77,113.  From  this  must  be  deducted  the  present  indebtedness, 
$15,500  ;  also  $26,000  transferred  to  the  "Southern  Theological  Seminary 
thus  leaving  only  $33,613,  exclusive  of  two  lots  on  the  Augusta  road,  which 
will  make  the  available  fund  about  $38,000.  The  expenses  of  the  University 
are  about  $10,000  per  annum,  while  the  net  income  is  only  about  $6,500,  leav- 
ing a  deficiency  of  $3,500  per  annum. 

I.  L.  BROOKES,  President  of  Board. 


treasurer's  report. 


21 


a 
o 

cS  • 

a 

o  • 

o 

p 

A 

•8 

W  . 

©  , 

Ch 

o 

C3 

©  - 

retar 

Seer 

o 

o 

GO 

18 

§'£ 

.— 

^  s 

cog 

^« 

OS 

d 

©  <U 
O    .  S-. 

CQ 

£  <=> 

PQ  p 

•  c3 

p 


m 
H 

pq 
o 

CO 


pq 


CO  cm 

00  >-> 


pq 


PQ 


O 


O  rr3 

O 

o 

& 

I  ,  g 

a  -1 

aj      P  oa 

p    .2  5 

© 


res 

©  CO 
-co 
o 

a 

a> 
© 


II  a 


P  flS 


§1  „ 

CO  —  P3 


<3  © 


.2  S    1 .5  '5J  f-i 


p      1>  f-l 


©  c_ 
^  © 

§.2 
©  ° 

EH  


1  © 
P  3) 

^  s 

i— i       o  © 


S«2 


p  © 


«    r«  <5  I— ( 

p  «» 

be 


©  ^ 

P  !h 

-d  ^  a)  a 

Eh 

© 
-p 


5  »  H 


co  d 


treasurer's  report. 


45  00 

49  50 

2  37 

50  00 
10  00 

58  87 
25 

5  40 
200  00 

43  12 

300  00 

764  51 1 
533  98j 

as 

OCNCNCi 
CO  »1 

PS 

%  o 


CD  ^  ~  0—> 


3  .  ei' 


SO 


C  CU 


2  -S|=> 


SI 


,a  3 
=  <5 


CD  >, 


£3  ^2 


.-33  xi 
=  rtfc,rfia3cc 
a  O  O  O  O  o 


Sea: 


>  a  e 
o  o 

"2  -c  a. 
g  •>*.=  4>- 


O  O  tH 

■5  £  3  o5-i 


HO 


£a 


CU  E  CO 


Ms 


coo  ^eooooo©^ ooo 

(MOO  OOOOOOOoOOi>0 

lOOO  OOirarHOOOa>C^«5*JDOO 

OOCOCM  »OCMi-li-i      O  C-  U3  CO  '"J'  SO  lO 


C  OOOO 
OOCNs 

-tiooroo 


-  o 


§3  .2  .2.2 
■       o  2 

^iisia 

-o  2  2  £  So  = 
g        O  oo 


*  2  5  5 
fill  j 


°;=  a  d 
«  «  ^  CO 

o.r  o  P 
m  g  °  '  S 

xi  o  o  •  S 
"J(2  " 

c£  .5 
.2  S-j  a  » 
£  S  .5  3 
t~°    .2  k 

°  o  ©  oM 


ill  & 


.  o 

.2  a  . 
o  o  •  o  >, 

_  —  r>ri  CO 


41  5 


s*3  JMsagl^jS 


4i-    .  ....... 

CU 

I  s. 


b  s 


CONSTITUTION. 


EEVISED  AND  AMENDED. 


We,  the  representatives  of  the  constituent  bodies  of  the 
State  Convention  of  the  Baptist  Denomination  in  South- 
Carolina,  do  agree  upon  the  following  Articles,  as  forming 
the  annexed  constitution  of  the  Convention,  and  the  basis  of 
the  union  : 

ARTICLE  I. 

This  body  shall  be  styled  the  State  Convention  of  the 
Baptist  Denomination  in  South- Carolina. 

ARTICLE  II. 

The  grand  objects  of  this  Convention  shall  be  :  The  pro- 
motion of  religious  education,  and  particularly  that  of  pious 
young  men  designed  for  the  Gospel  ministry  ;  the  spread  of 
the  Gospel  by  Foreign,  Domestic,  and  State  Missionary  oper- 
ations ;  by  the  circulation  of  the  sacred  scriptures  ;  and  by 
such  means  as  may  be  devised  from  time  to  time,  for  the 
promotion  of  the  interests  of  Education,  Publication,  and  the 
Sunday  School  system — to  bring  the  Baptist  Churches  in 
this  State  into  closer  union— to  harmonize  their  views  and 
feelings  in  things  spiritual,  by  conferring  together  on  all 
matters  of  interests  respecting  the  Kingdom  of  God — and  in 
general  to  direct  and  concentrate  their  efforts  in  such  mea- 
sures as  may,  in  their  opinion,  tend  to  promote  the  glory  of 
God  and  the  spread  of  evangelical  knowledge  in  the  earth. 
The  Convention,  though  not  unwilling  to  give  advice  in  cases 
of  difficulty,  yet  will  claim  to  itself  no  power  to  lord  it  over 
God's  heritage,  believing  that  the  right  of  Government,  under 
Christ,  is  vested  in  the  Churches  themselves. 

ARTICLE  III. 

The  Convention  shall  consist  of  Delegates  from  the  several 
Baptist  Associations  in  this  State  who  may  approve  of  the 
measures  here  adopted  ;  and  of  Representatives  from  other 
religious  bodies  of  the  Baptist  connexion,  concerned  in  the 


24 


CONSTITUTION. 


promotion  of  the  same  objects  with  the  Convention ;  the 
number  of  Delegates  and  Representatives  bearing  always  a 
just  proportion  to  the  number  of  their  constituents.  The 
attending  Delegates  shall  be  a  quorum  to  do  business.  The 
appointment  of  these  Delegates  shall  be  made  annually  or 
biennially,  as  the  Convention  shall  determine  to  hold  its 
meeting  ;  and  a  certificate  of  their  appointment  shall  be 
exhibited  to  the  Convention.  The  members  of  the  Board  of 
Agents  shall  be  ex-officio  members  of  the  new  Convention. 

ARTICLE  IV. 

The  Convention  shall  have  a  President,  Vice-President, 
Secretary  and  Treasurer.  It  shall  also  have  a  Board  of 
Agents  for  the  transaction  of  business  during  its  recess,  con- 
sisting of  eight  members — the  Treasurer  ex-officio  being  one 
of  them — any  three  of  whom  duly  convened,  shall  be  a  quo- 
rum. The  duties  severally  assigned  to  the  officers  of  similar 
institutions  shall  devolve  on  those  of  this  body,  according  to 
their  rank  and  character  in  the  Convention  and  in  the  Board. 
The  Board,  as  Agents,  shall  be  adequate  to  the  performance 
of  all  necessary  business  which  may  occur  during  the  recess 
of  the  Convention.  Both  Officers  and  Agents  shall  hold  their 
station — unless  forfeited  by  unrighteous  conduct — till  a  new 
election.  The  Board  shall  have  the  power  to  fill  vacancies 
in  their  own  body. 

ARTICLE  V. 

The  support  of  an  Institution  of  learning  in  this  State  shall 
be  considered  as  a  primary  object.  One  of  the  designs  of 
this  Institution  is  to  assist  those  who,  in  the  judgment  of 
their  churches,  are  called  to  preach  the  Gospel,  that  they 
may  "  study  to  show  themselves  workmen  approved  unto 
God,  that  need  not  to  be  ashamed,  rightly  dividing  the  word 
of  truth."  Those  of  this  character  who  need  pecuniary  aid, 
may  receive  it,  at  the  discretion  of  the  Convention,  from 
funds  appropriated  to  this  object.  The  government  of  this 
Institution  shall  be  committed  to  a  Board  of  Trustees,  to  be 
elected  by  the  Convention  at  the  end  of  every  fourth  year. 

ARTICLE  VI. 

Ministers  of  the  Gospel  in  any  of  our  churches  needing  aid 
in  the  more  necessary  part  of  learning,  and  unable  to  attend 
at  the  Institution,  may  be  furnished  with  a  supply  of  the 
most  useful  books,  from  the  general  fund  for  education  pur- 
poses. 


CONSTITUTION.  25 

ARTICLE  VII. 

Although  contributions  in  money  shall  not  be  considered 
requisite  to  entitle  to  a  representation  in  the  Convention,  yet 
this  body  will  receive  such  contributions  from  any  of  its 
constituent  bodies  that  may  wish  to  aid  in  the  support  of 
missionary  service  among  the  destitute,  cither  at  home  or 
abroad  ;  of  the  education  of  pious  young  men  who  may  be 
approved  by  the  churches  to  which  they  belong,  as  called  of 
God  to  preach  the  G-ospel ;  or  any  other  scheme  of  benevo- 
lence tending  to  the  increase  of  evangelical  and  useful  know- 
ledge, or  of  vital,  practical  religion.  And  the  right  of 
conducting  the  business  of  the  fund  will  bo  considered  as 
vested  exclusively  in  the  representative  of  bodies  which  do 
regularly  contribute.  In  the  election  of  the  Board  of  Trus- 
tees of  Furman  University,  the  vote  shall  be  cast  only  by 
the  representatives  of  the  larger  bodies,  viz:  Associations — 
which  enter  into  the  constituency  of  the  Convention.  The 
extent  of  this  right  on  the  part  of  each  Association,  shall  be 
measured  by  the  amount  it  may  have  contributed  to  the 
vested  funds  of  the  Convention,  whether  this  contribution 
shall  have  been  made  directly  by  the  donation  of  churches 
or  of  individuals  within  its  limits  ;  and  the  contribution  of 
each  sum  of  one  thousand  dollars  shall  give  the  contributing 
body  the  right  to  cast  one  vote.  All  moneys  specially  appro- 
priated shall  be  sacredly  applied  to  the  object  designated  ; 
but  where  any  contributions  or  bequests  are  made  without 
any  specific  designation,  discretion  m  their  application  shall 
be  exercised  by  the  Convention  or  its  Board  of  Agents. 

ARTICLE  VIII. 

The  Treasurer  shall  take  charge  of  all  moneys  and  special- 
ties belonging  to  the  Convention,  and  keep  separate  accounts 
of  the  amounts  contributed  for  different  objects,  and  render 
regular  accounts  of  them  to  the  Convention  at  its  stated 
meetings,  and,  also,  to  the  Board,  when  called  upon  to  do  so. 
He  shall  be  elected  by  the  Convention  at  its  stated  meeting, 
and  shall  hold  his  office  until  the  last  day  of  the  next  meeting, 
and  until  another  shall  be  elected  and  give  bond  and  enter 
upon  the  duties  of  his  office.  For  the  faithful  discharge  of 
his  trust  he  shall  give  bond  and  security  to  the  Convention, 
in  such  sum  of  money  as  they  shall  from  time  to  time  direct. 
He  shall  pay  no  money  out  of  the  funds  but  by  the  order  of 
the  Convention  or  Board,  signed  by  the  presiding  officer. 
And  should  the  said  office  become  vacant  by  death,  resigna- 
tion or  removal,  the  said  vacancy  shall  be  filled  by  an  election 
by  the  Board  of  Agents,  and  the  person  so  elected  by  the 


26 


CONSTITUTION. 


Board  shall  hold  his  office  until  the  next  stated  meeting  of 
the  Convention,  and  until  another  shall  be  elected,  give  bond 
and  security,  and  enter  upon  the  duties  of  his  office.  And 
the  Treasurer  so  elected  shall  give  bond,  and  do  all  the  duties 
required,  and  in  the  same  manner  as  if  elected  by  the  Con- 
vention. 

ARTICLE  IX. 

The  Convention  may  use  its  discretion  in  having  either  an 
annual  or  biennial  meeting.  But  in  cases  of  important  con- 
cern, and  especially  when  the  arrangement  for  a  biennial 
session  has  been  made,  the  President  may,  at  the  instance  of 
the  Board,  call  an  earlier  meeting. 

ARTICLE  X. 

Any  alteration  which  experience  may  prove  to  be  neces- 
sary, may  be  made  in  these  Rules,  by  the  concurring  vote  of 
two-thirds  of  the  members  present  at  an  annual  or  biennial 
meeting. 


RULES  FOR  THE  TRANSACTION  OF  BUSINESS. 


L  The  meeting  of  the  Convention  shall  be  opened  and 
closed,  each  day  of  its  session,  with  prayer  by  the  President, 
or  by  some  person  whom  he  shall  request  to  perform  the 
services. 

2.  After  prayer  on  the  first  day  the  names  of  Delegates 
shall  be  enrolled,  officers  shall  be  elected,  and  when  the  body 
is  organized,  applications  for  membership  from  new  bodies 
be  decided  on,  and  if  admitted,  their  attending  Delegates 
shall  be  received  by  the  right  hand  of  fellowship.  The 
Constitution  of  the  Convention  and  the  Rules  of  Order  shall 
then  be  read. 

3.  The  minutes  of  the  preceding  day  shall  be  read,  to  the 
end  that  mistakes,  if  any  shall  have  been  made,  may  be 
corrected. 

4.  Persons  invited  to  seats  in  Convention  shall  have  the 
privilege  of  speaking  in  debate,  but  not  of  voting. 

5.  The  members  of  Convention  shall  retain  their  seats, 
preserve  silence,  and  refrain  from  conversation  during  the 
reading  of  the  Minutes,  while  the  presiding  officer  is  putting 
a  question,  or  when  any  member  is  speaking  in  debate. 

6.  No  member  shall  absent  himself  from  the  meeting  of 
Convention  without  permission. 

7.  Bach  member,  when  he  speaks  in  debate,  or  has  any 
communication  to  make  to  the  Convention,  shall  address  the 
Chair,  standing  in  his  place,  and  when  he  has  finished  he 
shall  sit  down. 

8.  No  member  shall  speak  oftener  than  twice  in  any  one 
debate  on  the  same  day,  without  permission  from  the  Con- 
vention. 

9.  When  two  or  more  members  rise  nearly  at  the  same 
time,  to  address  the  Convention,  the  President  shall  name 
the  one  to  speak,  being  the  one  who  had  first  risen  and 
addressed  the  Chair.    After  he  shall  have  spoken,  those  who 


28 


RULES. 


had  risen  with  him  shall  be  heard  in  the  order  of  their 
rising,  in  priority  of  all  others,  should  they  still  desire  to  be 
heard. 

10.  When  a  member  shall  be  called  to  order,  he  shall  sit 
down  until  the  Chair  determines  whether  he  is  in  order  or 
not.  An  appeal,  however*  may  be  made  from  the  decision  of 
the  Chair  to  the  Convention. 

11.  No  motion  shall  be  debated,  nor  the  question  upon  it 
be  put,  unless  it  shall  have  been  seconded  ;  and  then,  if  re- 
quired by  the  President  or  any  member,  it  shall  be  reduced 
to  writing,  delivered  in  at  the  table,  and  read  before  the 
debate  begins. 

12.  When  a  question  is  under  debate,  no  motion  shall  be 
received,  except  to  adjourn,  to  lay  on  the  table,  to  postpone 
indefinitely,  to  postpone  to  a  day  certain,  to  commit,  or  to 
amend  ;  which  several  motions  shall  have  precedence  in  the 
order  in  which  they  stand  there  arranged.  Neither  of  these 
motions,  with  the  exception  of  that  to  adjourn,  after  being 
decided,  shall  be  allowed  again  on  the  same  day  upon  the 
same  question. 

13.  A  motion  to  adjourn  shall  always  be  in  order,  except 
when  a  question  is  actually  put,  and  the  Convention  is  en- 
gaged in  voting. 

14.  If  the  question  for  debate  contain  several  points,  it 
may  be  divided  at  the  request  of  any  member. 

15.  In  filling  up  blanks,  the  largest  sum  and  the  longest 
time  shall  be  first  put. 

16.  When  the  question  has  been  once  made,  and  the  vote 
taken,  it  shall  be  in  order  for  any  member  in  the  majority  to 
move  for  its  re-consideration. 

17.  All  questions  shall  be  put  by  the  President,  and  the 
members  shall  respectively  signify  their  assent  by  answering 
"Yea,"  and  their  dissent  by  answering  "  No."  If  the  Presi- 
dent, or  any  member,  shall  not  be  satisfied  that  the  decision 
expressed  by  the  ayes  and  noes  is  certainly  ascertained,  the 
President  shall  request  those  who  voted  in  the  affirmative  to 
rise  and  stand  until  they  shall  be  counted.  After  these  shall 
be  seated,  the  President  shall  request  those  who  voted  in  the 
negative  to  rise  and  stand  till  they  shall  be  counted.  In  the 
event  of  an  equal  decision,  the  President  shall  have  the 
casting  vote. 

18.  When  the  President  shall  desire  to  be  heard  in  debate, 
or  to  be  temporarily  absent,  the  Chair  shall  be  taken  by  the 
Vice  President ;  or,  in  case  of  his  absence,  by  some  member 
named  by  the  President,  until  he  shall  resume  his  seat. 

19.  The  following  Standing  Committees,  to  consist  of  five 


RULES. 


29 


members  each,  shall  be  appointed  by  the  President  at  the 
commencement  of  each  session,  viz  : 

A  Committee  to  arrange  the  Preaching  during  the  meeting. 
A  Committee  on  Accounts. 

A  Committee  on  the  Minutes  and  Letters  of  Corresponding 
Bodies. 

A  Committee  on  the  Time  and  Place  of  next  Meeting,  and 
the  Persons  who  shall  Preach  the  stated  Sermons  of  the 
Convention's  appointment. 

A  Committee  on  the  notice  of  Deceased  Ministers. 

A  Committee  to  prepare  a  List  of  the  names  of  Baptist  Min- 
isters in  South- Carolina,  and  their  Post  Offices. 

A  Committee  on  Nomination  of  a  Board  of  Agents. 


ABSTRACT  OF  MINUTES 

OF  THE 

BOARD  OF  TRUSTEES  OF  FURMAN  UNIVERSITY. 


Greenville.  July  22,  1858. 
• 

The  Board  met,  the  following  members  being  present,  viz  r 
I.  L.  Brookes,  A.  J.  Lawton,  T.  P.  Lide,  J.  B.  O'Neall,  J.  0. 
B.  Dargan,  I.  D.  Wilson,  H.  A.  Duncan,  W.  P.  Hill,  J.  M. 
Chiles,  P.  E.  Duncan,  R.  G.  Edwards,  Z.  "Watkins,  B.  C. 
Pressley,  A.  Rice,  T.  B.  Roberts,  J.  J.  Brantly,  J.  G.  Lan- 
drum,  W.  Brooker,  J.  W.  Brooks,  R.  Furman.  Prayer  by 
Brother  Chiles. 

Professor  Hart  tendered  his  resignation,  which  was  accep- 
ted, and  a  vote  of  thanks  passed  for  the  faithful  discharge  of 
his  duties. 

The  Treasurer  submitted  his  report,  and  the  report  was 
referred  to  the  following  committee,  viz  :  B.  C.  Pressley.  I. 
D.  Wilson,  T.  P.  Lide. 

Resolved,  That  any  young  man,  studying  for  the  ministry,  as  a  beneficiary  of 
this  Board,  in  the  Furman  University,  be  required  to  give  bond  in  the  penal 
sum  of  SI, 000,  conditioned  to  refund  all  the  monies  drawn,  should  he  leave 
the  Institution  without  the  consent  and  approbation  of  the  Faculty,  or  be 
discharged  for  improper  conduct. 

The  Chairman  of  the  Faculty  reported.  The  report  was 
referred  to  the  following  committee,  viz  :  J.  B.  O'Xeall,  H. 
D.  Duncan,  W.  P.  Hill. 

Resolved,  That  hereafter,  the  Faculties  of  both  Colleges  be  requested  an- 
nually to  recommend  such  students  as  may  be  entitled  to  the  first  degree  j 
that  the  same  be  placed  on  the  minutes  of  the  Board,  with  the  action  of  the 
Board,  authorizing  the  degree  to  be  conferred. 


ABSTRACT  OF  MINUTES. 


31 


The  President  of  the  Female  College  submitted  his  report. 

Appointed  H.  A.  Duncan,  J.  G.  Landrum,  and  W.  P.  Hill, 
a  committee,  to  request  of  Rev.  J.  M.  C.  Breaker  a  copy  of 
his  address  before  the  Female  College,  for  publication. 
•  The  Board  of  Visitors  appointed  to  attend  the  examination 
of  the  Greenville  Baptist  Female  College,  presented  the 
following  report : 

"A  portion  of  tbe  Committee  appointed  to  attend  the  late  examination  of 
the  Greenville  Baptist  Female  College,  enjoyed  the  privilege  of  attending,  for 
several  days,  upon  the  interesting  exercises  of  the  various  classes,  and  are 
happy  to  say  that  the  exhibition  of  faithful  and  thorough  instruction,  and  solid 
progress,  was  highly  gratifying. 

The  different  branches  of  study  were  simply  viewed  preparatory  to  the 
examination.  There  was  no  drilling  for  effect,  and  consequently  every  pupil 
stood  upon  her  own  merits  as  a  scholar.  The  exhibitions  given  by  the  young 
ladies  of  having  attained  a  knowledge  of  the  principles  involved  in  the  several 
branches  of  instruction,  afforded  pleasing  evidence  that  their  preceptors  had 
not  labored  in  vain  to  impart  a  practical  cast  to  the  attainments  of  their 
pupils.  The  readiness  with  which  propositions  in  Arithmetic,  Algebra,  and 
Geometry  were  solved,  and  the  promptness  and  correctness  of  the  answers 
given  to  questions  on  the  other  branches,  were  a  striking  feature  in  these 
exercises.  The  compositions  of  the  young  ladies  were  submitted  to  the  inspec- 
tion of  the  visiting  Committee,  and  were  generally  creditable,  in  orthography, 
penmanship,  the  structure  of  sentences,  and  the  character  of  the  sentiments 
expressed.  "While  the  whole  exhibition  was  exceedingly  gratifying,  as  evin- 
cive of  solid  progress  on  the  part  of  the  pupils,  and  diligent,  efficient,  and 
able  instruction  on  the  part  of  the  Faculty  ;  your  committee  cannot  forego 
the  pleasure  of  expressing  their  admiration  of  the  skill  and  proficiency  which 
were  displayed  by  the  graduating  class  in  every  department  of  instruction. 
The  respectful  and  decorous  deportment  of  the  young  ladies  generally, 
together  with  the  affectionate  interest  which  they  manifested  for  each  other, 
and  for  their  teachers,  deserve  to  be  mentioned  as  creditable  alike  to  all 
parties. 

The  new  College  Building  is  now  occupied.  It  is  a  stately  and  commodious 
edifice  of  brick,  three  stories  high,  beside  the  basement,  with  airy  and  com- 
modious rooms,  for  the  various  purposes  of  such  an  establishment. 

Your  Committee  must  express  their  high  gratification  at  the  successful 
operation  of  this  Institution.  Thp  Board  have  been  fortunate  in  the  selection 
of  a  faithful,  laborious,  and  capable  corps  of  Instructors,  who  have  secured 
the  confidence  and  respect  of  the  community,  and  the  affectionate  regards  of 
their  pupils.  Under  such  auspices,  we  look  forward  with  confidence  to  the 
growing  prosperity  of  this  nursery  of  knowledge  and  piety. 

T.  P.  LIDE,  For  the  Committee." 

Resolved,  That  the  Board  are  satisfied  with  the  statement  of  the  Treasurer 
in  reference  to  the  course  heretofore  pursued  by  him  in  settlements  with 


32 


ABSTRACT  OF  MINUTES. 


obligors,  on  account  of  payments  claimed  to  be  made  to  Dr.  Mendenhall,  and 
he  is  hereby  authorized  to  pursue  the  same  course  in  future. 

Resolved,  That  the  President  of  the  Board  be  instructed  to  report  the  state 
of  the  University  to  the  Committee  now  in  session. 

Adjourned  to  8  o'clock  Tuesday  morning. 


On  Tuesday  morning,  the  Board  met. 

The  Executive  Committee  of  the  Female  College  reported. 
Their  report  was  referred  to  a  committee  of  three,  viz :  J. 
B,  O'Neall,  J.  M.  Chiles,  J.  G.  Landrum. 

The  committee  on  the  Treasurer's  report,  reported  that 
they  found  the  same  correct  and  properly  vouched  ;  and  in 
accordance  with  their  recommendation,  the  following  resolu- 
tions were  passed  : 

1.  Resolved,  That  the  Treasurer  be  instructed  to  take  vigorous  measures,  by 
suit  or  otherwise,  as  may  be  necessary  for  each  case,  to  collect  all  bonds  upon 
whicf  the  interest  shall  not  be  paid  punctually,  with  the  privilege,  however, 
to  the  obligors  to  extend  their  respective  bends  by  giving  new  ones,  adding 
the  interest  now  due,  and  providing  for  the  payment  hereafter  of  interest 
annually,  and  that  the  sums  which  the  Treasurer  shall  so  collect,  be  imme- 
diately invested  in  stock,  or  public  bonds. 

2.  Resolved,  That  C.  H.  Judson,  James  P.  Boyce,  Perry  E.  Duncan,  and  T.  B. 
Roberts,  be  appointed  a  committee  on  the  University  lands,  with  instructions 
to  sell  the  two  lots  near  the  ravine. 

3.  Resolved,  That  Professors  Furman  and  Judson  be  requested  to  devote  their 
services  for  such  time  as  they  may  be  able  to  spare  from  their  College  duties? 
to  the  raising  of  a  further  endowment  for  the  University. 

4.  Resolved,  That  this  Board  solemnly  pledge  itself,  that  no  part  of  the  princi- 
pal which  shall  be  hereafter  given  for  the  endowment  of  the  University,  shall 
ever  be  used  for  current  expenses,  but  the  same  shall  be  faithfully  invested,  and 
only  the  interest  thereof  expended. 

The  committee,  to  whom  was  referred  the  report  of  the 
Executive  Committee  of  the  Female  College,  reported, 
recommending  the  following  resolution,  which  was  adopted, 
viz :  # 

Resolved,  That  the  following  persons,  to  wit,  P.  E.  Duncan,  V.  McBee,  C.  J. 
Elford,  J.  W.  Brooks,  J.  B.  Sherman,  T.  B.  Roberts,  and  J.  P.  Boyce,  be 
appointed  an  Executive  Committee  to  manage  and  superintend  the  Female 
College,  and  to  receive  and  apply  the  proceeds  of  the  same,  first,  to  the  pay- 
ment of  salaries  and  expenses,  and  secondly,  to  the  payment  of  the  debt 


ABSTRACT  OF  MINUTES. 


33 


mentioned  in  this  report ;  and  that  they  do  annually  report  their  action  to 
this  Board." 

The  committee  on  the  Faculty's  report  presented  their 
report ;  and  in  accordance  with  its  recommendation,  it  was 
resolved,  that  there  should  be  a  summer  vacation  of  four 
weeks  immediately  preceding  Commencement,  and  that  the 
First  Term  should  begin  immediately  after  Commencement, 
and  continue  to  the  20th  of  December,  19  weeks  ;  that  the 
Second  Term  should  begin  the  1st  of  March,  and  continue  to 
the  4th  of  July,  19  weeks. 

Elected  J.  F.  Lanneau,  Assistant  Instructor  in  Mathematics 
and  Chemistry. 

Adjourned,  sine  die. 

R.  FURMAN,  Secretary. 


The  new  Board  of  Trustees  met  on  Tuesday  evening,  and 
organized  by  the  election  of  the  following  Officers  : 

I.  L.  BROOKES,  President. 

T.  CURTIS,  1st  Vice-President. 

J.  R.  KENDRICK,  2d  " 

0.  H.  JUDSON,  Treasurer. 

R.  FURMAN,  Secretary, 

Ordered,  that  an  abstract  of  the  minutes  be  published, 
with  minutes  of  Convention, 
Appropriated  $20  for  minutes. 

Appointed  T,  B.  Roberts,  P.  E.  Duncan,  J.  J.  Brantly,  and 
C.  H.  Judson,  the  Executive  Committee. 

Adjourned  to  meet  at  Sumterville,  on  Friday  before  the 
last  Saturday  in  July,  1859,  at  8  o'clock,  A.  M. 

R.  FURMAN,  Secretary. 


TREASURER'S  REPORT. 


C.  H.  JTJDSON,  Treasurer,  in  account  ivith  the  Furman 

University. 


Dr. 

1857. 

July    21  To  balance  in  hand  last  report,   $431  26 

"       "  "  Semi-annual  dividend  of  the  McBryde 

fund,   100  00 

23  "   A.  Rice,  in  full  of  bond,   3105 

"  "   C.  H.  Calding,   25  00 

"      24  "  Rev.  W.  Q.  Beattie   600  00 

"  "   Dr.  B.  W.  Lawton,   14  00 

25  "   W.  P.  Martin,   1  40 

"  "  T.  Y.  Martin,   10  00 

"  "  E.  Rasar,   31  05 

"  "   J.  C.  Rasar,   31  05 

"  "   Mrs.  S.  R.  Richardson,   5  18 

11  "  Joseph  Cox,   21  40 

"  "  Estate  of  Daniel  Odom,  deceased,  ...  126  00 

"  "   Col.  B.  F.  Griffin,   100  00 

"  "   Valentine  Young,   31  05 

"  "   James  Kay,   31  05 

"  "   William  Smith,   514  38 

28  "  A.  H.  Magee,  Sr.,   62  10 

"  "   Rev.  J.  M.  Chiles,   53  08: 

Aug.   10  "   Capt,  B.  T.  Mims,   142  00 

11  "   Alexander  Acker,   31  00 

18  "   Tilman  Watson,   600  00 

Sept.    2  "   Dr.  Thomas  Curtis,   100  00 

"  "   Rev.  William  Curtis,   166  67 

8  "   F.  C.  Jeter,   100  00 

Oct.      5  "  W.  N.  Moore,  Treasurer  of  the  Edge- 
field Association,   13  30 

8  "   J.  B.  Stokes,   12  35 

Nov.    10  "   Washington  Taylor,   6  43 

22  "   A.E.  Mclver,   35  00 


TREASURER'S  RErORT.  35 

Nov.   22  To  F.  E.  Wilson,   42  00 

"  "  Rev.  J.  W.  Burn,   42  00 

Dec.     4  "  Rev.  J.  H.  Cuthbort,   204  00 

"  "   W.  S.Johnson,   200  00 

"      21  "   Mrs.  E.  A.  Estes,   42  00 

26  "   Hon.  J.  B.  O'Neall,  Trustee,   1250  00 

30  "   S.  Latimer,   2  10 

1858. 

Jan.      9  "   G.  D.  Mims,  ,  100  00 

13  "  Rev.  W.  B.  Johnson,  D.D.,   35  00 

"  "   Jacob  Burress,   32  10 

16  "  Hamilton  Bekson,   3  00 

23  "   A.  S.  Coleman,   5  25 

27  "  B.  F.  Mays,    21  00 

"  "   Jones  &  Lee,   16  50 

30  "   E.  J.  Mims,   42  00 

Feb.     3  "    Capt.  R.  T.  Minis,   35  00 

"  "  D.  H.  Rice,   42  00 

5  "   G.  W.  Mclver,   38  50 

"  "   Dr.  S.  H.  Pressley,   21  00 

"  "  Rev.  I.  Nicholes,   30  00 

"  "   J.  A.  Pettigrew,   42  00 

"        9  "  G.  W.  Landrum,  collections  on  bonds 

of  L.  B.  Smith,  deceased,   565  00 

10  "  Rev.  J.  O.  B.  Dargan,   3  50 

"  "  Bank  State  So.  Ca.,  on  note  discounted,  2966  00 

"  "   William  Drakefbrd,   34  48 

12  "   Rev.  John  Trapp,   42  00 

16  "   G.W.Magee,   2  10 

"      17  "   Jesse  Miller,   42  00 

19  "   William  Mobley,   42  00 

27  "   S.  Agnew,  Sr.,   32  40 

"       "  "  Columbia  Bridge  Company,  dividends,  57  00 

March  2  "   Col.  J.  W.  Duckett,   56  00 

"  "  Prof.  J.  C.  Furman,  D.D.,  interest,.  .  .  161  00 

"  "  "       "          "         "    principal,. .  463  60 

5  "   Mrs.  D.  S.  Baker,  interest,   127  47 

10  "   M.  H.  Brook,           "    2  09 

14  "  T.  P.  Smith,            "    84  00 

16  "   William  Clinkscales,   12  10 

17  "   A.  Johnson,  interest,   63  00 

"  "   Mrs.  F.  M.  Hopkins,   10  00 

"      19  "    Conrad  Kemmerlin,  interest,   42  00 

23  "   Rev.  W.  A.  Lawton,      "    56  00 

25  "   Joseph  Furse,               "    85  00 

26  "   A.  J.  Brook,                  "    2  10 

29  "  J.  L.  Yogt,                   "    5  00 


36 


treasurer's  report. 


April    1  "    Carolus  Felder,   299  56 

5  "   S.  R.  Ferguson,   11  58 

"  "   Joseph  Cox,   11  00 

10  "  Estate  of  A.  Patterson,  deceased,  ....  195  00 

12  "    CM.  Furman,   70  00 

20  "   Rev.  J.  J.  Lawton,   55  00 

May     1  "  Dr.  Thomas  Curtis,   100  00 

"  "   Rev.  J.  G.  Landrum,   10  00 

"  "  S.  A.  Moore,   ll  33 

"  "  T.  P.  Lide,   28  00 

"  "  J.  M.  Cox,   12  20 

8  "  T.  E.Howie,   10  00 

"  "   Mrs.  Eliza  Minis,   21  00 

13  "  Estate  of  J.  Culp,  deceased,   29  00 

"  "    George  Sawyer,   606  00 

14  "  Rev.  J.  L>  Trapp,   50  00 

20  "   J.  R.  Shirley   400  00 

June  20  "   Bank  of  Newberry,  loan,   818  43 

"  "   Wiley  Kelly,   42  00 

July     3  "   R.  B.  Cain;   20  00 

8  "   G.  A.  Blake,   69  75 

"  "   Mark  Glenn,   6  00 

14  "   Dr.  Thomas  Furman,   42  00 

20  "   Tuition  2d  Term,  1857,   1652  84 

"  "       "       1st   "      1858   2695  87 


$17,893  65 

Cr. 

1857. 

By  amounts  paid  as  follows : 
"   Jesse  Howard,  beneficiary 

of  the  McBryde  Fund,,  .  $100  00 
"   Bank  of  State  So.  Ca.,  acc't 


 $17,893  65 

C.  H.  JUDSON,  Treasurer. 


"  Rev.  I.  L.  Brookes,  acc't  of 

loan,  ,   2000  00 

"  Interest  on  loans  and  notes,  845  71 

"  On  notes  and  accounts,  . »  .  2995  02 

"  Incidental  Expenses,.  ....  554  91 

1858. 

"   Salaries,  ,   9518  75 

July     21  "   Balance  in  hand,   379  26 


A  LIST 


OF 


BAPTIST  MUSTERS  IN  SOUTH-CAROLINA, 


WITH  THEIR  POST  OFFICES. 


Those  marked  thus  (l*)  are  Licentiates. 


NAMES. 

Adair,  John  (*l.) 
Allen,  Joel 
Anderson,  CAT 
Ashley,  W 
Acker,  A 
Arial,  J 
Ay  res,  Wm 

Babb,  R  F 
Backus,  J  A 
Ballard,  W  L 
Barnett,  M  C 
Bartlett,  H  T 
Barton,  H  M 
Baskins,  J  W 
Bateman,  J  J 
Baxley,  Wm  C 
Bealer,  G  B 
Beattie,  W  O 
Beck,  W 
Bell,  G 
Berry,  L  M 
Beverly.  W  D 
Blythe,  D 
Boyce,  Prof  J  P 
Bradford,  R 
Brantly,  J  J 
Breaker,  C  M 
Breaker,  D  M 
Breaker,  J  M  C 
Brooker,  W 
Brooks,  G  W 
Brookes,  I  L 


POST  OFFICES. 

West  Union 
Marion,  C  H 
Greenville,  " 
Craytonville 
Calhoun 
Pickensville 
Marion,  C  H 

Greenwood 
Mars  Bluff 
Cedar  Falls 
Spartanburg,  C  H. 

Lotts' 
Fairplay 
Camden 
Society  Hill 
Barnwell,  C  H 
Darlington,  " 

Bennettsville, 
Darlington,  C  H 
Lotts' 
Merrittsville 
Gadsden 
South  Saluda 
Greenville 
Silverton 
Newberry,  C  H 
Charleston 
Monk's  Corner 
Beaufort 
Bull  Swamp 
Greenville,  C  H 
Hamburg 


NAMES. 

Brunson,  D  D 
Bruce,  E  D 
Burn,  J  W 
Burriss.B 
Burriss,  J 
Burroughs,  J  H 

Campbell,  T  J 
Cartledge,  A  M 
Carpenter,  E  J 
Carson,  W  B 
Cave,  B  M 
Chambers,  P 
Chapman,  J 
Chastain,  B  E 
Chiles,  J  M 
Chovin,C  E 
Cohen,  A  D 
Coleman,  J  D 
Coleman,  J  W 
Collins,  E 
Copeland,  J  T 
Coriey,  B  F 
Crane,  W 
Culpeper,  J 
Curry,  W  L 
Curtis.  Thos  D  D 
Curtis,  Win 
Cuttino,  D  W 
Cuthbert,  Lucius 

Dargan,  JOB 
Davenport,  J  B 
Davis,  C  J 


POST  OFFICES. 

Duntonville 
Townville 
Society  Hill. 


Pickens,  C  H 

Limestone  Springs 
Winnsboro7 
Piercetown 
Gillisonville 
Barnwell,  C  H 
Horse  Shoe 
Pickens,  C  H 
Highland  Grove 
Greenwood 
Robertville 
St  Helenaville 
Marion,  C  H 
Dyson's 
West  Union 
Flat  Rock 
Ninety-Six 
Milford 
Timmonsville 
Hamburg 
Limestone  Springs 

Georgetown 
Aiken 

Darlington 
Calhoun 
Walterboro', 


Licentiate. 


38 


LIST  OF  MINISTERS. 


NAMES, 

Dawson,  Thos 
Dean,  C  P 
Dean,  Jesse 
Dill,  A 
Dill,  E 
Dill,  Thos 
Dozier,  A  S 
Drummond  S 
Drunimond,  W 
Duncan,  H  D 
Duncan,  H  A 
Dun  ton,  Henry 
Durham,  A  K 
Durham,  J  D 
Dupre,  L 

Earle,  T  J 
Easterling,  T  W  (*l,) 
Edwards,  Prof  P  C 
Edwards,  R  J 
Elkin,  W  B 
Ezell,  J 

Fail,  N 
Fant,  D  J 
Felder,  G 
Fenley,  L 
Fewox,  J 
Ferguson,  B 
Fleming,  J  J 
Fort,  A  H 
t    Frean,  Thos 
Fuller,  R  W 
Furman,  J  C  D  D 
Furman,  R 
Furman,  Samuel 
Furze,  J  J 

Gains,  N 
Gaines,  T  R  (l) 
Gambrell,  J  M 
Garrison,  J  E  (l) 
Getzen,  J  P 
Gilbert  J 
Gibbs  J  (l) 
Givens,  P  (l) 
Gordon,  Wm  (l) 
Graham,  N 
Green,  J  C 
Grimes,  G  C 
Gwin,  W  W 
Gwin,  T  D 
Gwin,  J  T  (l) 

Hartin,  W  H 
Hartwell,  J  B 
Hays,  B 
Head,  E 
Head,  S 
Hicks,  G  W  (l) 


POST  OFFICES. 

Edisto 
Calhoun 
Greenville 
Gowensville 
Highland  Grove 

Mount  Willing 
Woodruff's 

Barnwell,  C  H 
Greenville, 
Merrit's  Bridge 
Doko 
Cedar  Falls 
Darlington, 

Gowensville 

Greenville 
Orangeburg 
Doko 

Limestone  Springs 

Hickory  Head 
Blackstock 
Winnsboro' 
West  Union 
St  George 

It  n 

Sumter 

Lexington,  C  H 

Columbia 

Beaufort 

Greenville 
u 

Stateburg 
Speedwell 

Line  Creek 

Calhoun 
Spring  Hill 
Collins 
Fountain  Inn 
Fair  Forest 
Beaufort 
Union,  C  H 
Sumter 
Pleasant  Grove  j 
Laurens,  C  H 
Youngsville 
Greenville 


Brown's 
Sbanghae,  Chiua 
Anderson,  C  H 
Tunnel  Hill 
Blackstocks 
Greenville 


NAMES. 

Higgins,  J  B 
Hilliard,  D 
Hill,  J  A 
Hill,  J  W 
Hill,  W  P 
Hill,  J  H 
Hinton,  L  C 
Hinton,  James 
Hitt,  W 
Holder,  B 
Holland,  E  D  (l*) 
Hoover,  John  M 
Horn,  A 
Horn,  E 
Hudson,  D 
Huffman,  J  C 
Hughson,  W  E 
Humphrey,  R  M  (l) 
Hiers,  Michael 
Huxford,  P  Sen'r 
Huxford,  P  Jf 

Isbell,  Samuel 

Jackson, B  A 
Jeter,  F  C 
Jeter,  K 
Johnson,  J 
Johnson,  W  B.  D  D 
Johnson,  W  S 
Johnson,  A  T 
Jones,  J  C 
Jones,  W  (l) 
Jones,  W  T 

Kay,  James 
Kendrick,  J  R 
Kendrick,  J  G 
Kennemur, 
King,  R 

Kitchens,  W  D  (l) 
Knight,  S 

Lagroon,  J 
Landrum,  J  G 
Lankford,  W 
Lanneau,  C  H,  (l) 
Lawton,  J  J 
Lawton,  J  A 
Lawton,  J  S  (l) 
Lawton,  W  A 
Leavell,  J  (l) 
Lecroy,  H 
Lee,  T 
Lee,  U  H 
Linder,  J  S 
Lindsay,  E 
Littlejohn,  F  W 
Long,  J  L  (l*) 
Long,  W  B,  (l) 
Looper,  T 


POST  OFFICES. 

Columbia 
Spartanburg 
Catawba 
St  George 
Greenwood 
Walterboro 
Chesterville 
St  George 
Spring  Grove 
Twelve  Mile 
West  Union 
Buford's  Bridge 
Lotts' 

Pickens,  C  H 
St  Matthews 
Camden 
Friendship 
Walker's 


Fair  Play 

Fish  Dam 

Duck  Branch 

Greenville 

Speedwell 

Mount  Zion 

Rogersville 
u 

Mount  Crogan 

Due  West  Corner 
Charleston 
Pinckneyville 
Pickens,  C  H 
Belton, 
Calhoun 
Scufifletown 

Lotts' 
Fort  Prince 
Gowensville 
Greenville 
Allendale 

Lawtonville 
« 

Anderson,  C  H 
Fruit  Hill 
Gold  Mine 
Columbia 
Walker's 
Holland 
Hurricane  Shoals 
Mount  Willing 
Anderson,  C  H 
Dacusville 


LIST  OP  MINISTERS. 


39 


NAMES. 

Lynes,  Samuel 
Lynes,  G 

McGuffin,  A  W 
Mahony,  H  W 
Manly,  B  D  D, 
Manly,  Charles  (l) 
Martin,  W  J 
Martin,  W  P 
Martin,  J  H  (l) 
Mason,  T 
Masters,  G  W 
Matthis,  J 
Mauldin,  B  F 
Mellichamp,  T  W 
Mendenhall,  J  K 
Morall,  J  F 
Morcock,  W 
Morris  E 
Morris,  T 
Morton,  W  M 
Motes,  J 
Mnllinax,  M 
Murray,  J  S 

Nance,  J  C 
Napier,  R 
Newland,  J 
Nicholes,  Isaac 
Nicholson,  P 
Nix,  J 

Noiman,  J  L 
N  orris,  A  P 
Norton,  R  W.  (l*) 

Odum,  J 
Owen,  J 
Owens,  W  C 

Page,B 
Parker  L 
Paslay,  H  W 
Pearce,  T  J 
Peterson,  J  F 
Phelps,  J  C 
Perry,  B  F  D 
Perry,  E  (l) 
Porter,  C  M 
Powell,  S 
Profit,  J  R 

Ramsay,  "W* 
Ray,  J  J 
Ray,  Thos 
Reynolds,  J  L,  D 
Rice,  A 
Rice,  W  D 
Richards,  Wra 
Robertson,  T 
Roper,  C 


POST  OFFTCES. 

Monk's  Corner 


West  Union 
Friendship 
Charleston 

<< 

Marion,  C  H 
Gentsville 
Laurens 
Camden 
Anderson 
Mollohon 
Williamston 
White  Cane 
Camden 
Grahamville 
Lawtonville 
Graniteville 
Hamburg 
Bachelor's  Retreat 
Mountville 
Pinckneyville 
Anderson 

Wellsville 
Mars  Bluff 
Chesterville 
Privateer 
Rock  Hill 
Steep  Bottom 
Cross  Keys 
Graniteville 
Sumter 

Brightsville 
Pickens,  C  H 
Yorkville 

Fingerville 
Steep  Bottom 
Greenville 
Laurens,  C  H 
Richardson 
Society  Hill 
Barnwell 
Gillisonville 
Ridgewood 
Traveller's  Rest 
Chappell's  Depot 

Sumter 
Blackville 
Cross  Keys 
D  Columbia 
Storeville 
Sumter 
Savannah,  Geo 
Scuffletown 
Twelve  Mile 


NAMES 

Rogers,  J  E 
Rollings,  G 
Rollings,  L  P 
Rollings,  J  L 
Roper,  T  L 
Ross,  John 
Royall,  Prof  W 
Ritcher,  S 
Runion,  J  IVI 


POST  OFFICER. 

Camden 
Pleasant  View 
«  « 

Murry's  Ferry 
North  Saluda 
Columbia 
Greenville 
Walterboro' 
Mush  Creek 

Greenville 
Barnwell 
Sawyersville 
Cowpens 
Union,  C  H 
Columbia 
Townville 
Fowler's  Creek 
White  Cane 
Simpson's  Mills 
Jordan's  Mills 
Kitchen's 
Line  Creek 
Sumterville 
Halseyville 
Cheraw 
Barnwell 
Walhalla 
Steep  Bottom 

Bennettsville 

Effingham 
« 

Phoenix 
Spartanburg 
Charleston 

Silver  Glade 
Long  Run 
Cross  Roads 
Union,  C  II 
Rogersville 

Walker's 

Manning 
Orangeburg 

Watkins.  Z  Coleman's  Cross  Roada 
Weaver,' J  M  (l)  Friendfield 


Sams,  Prof  M  W 
Saunders,  W  T 
Sawyer,  S 
Scruggs,  D 
Seymour,  I  E  H 
Sharp,  M  J 
Simmons,  D 
Singieton,  W  B 
Snider,  W  J 
Spruell,  S 
Stacey,  C 
Staley,  Casper 
Stepp,  A  C 
Stiles,  C  A  (l*) 
Stone.  M  F 
Stough,  A  L 
Suares,  M  R 
Sullivan,  N 
Sweat,  J  T 

Thomas,  JAW 
Timmons,  E  B 
Timmons,  J  M 
Trapp,  John 
Turner,  R 
Tustin,  J  P 

Vandiver.  H 
Vann,  R  R 
Vaughn,  J  C 
Vaughn,  K 
Vernon,  J  T  W 

Walker,  George 
Walker,  N  W 
Wallace,  W  L 
Watkins,  W 


West,  John 
Whately,  E  L 
Whilden,  B  W 
Whilden,  R  F 
Willbanks,  S 
Wilkins.S  C 
Williams,  A 
Williams,  J  G 
Williams,  GWM 
Williams,  T  F  (l) 
Wilson,  J  J 


Whitstown 
Allendale 
Walterboro' 
Darlington 
Silver  Glade 
Leavenworth, 
Donald's 
Robertville 
Duck  Cranch 
Felix 
Silver  Glade 


40 


LIST  OP  MINISTERS. 


NAMES. 

Wilson,  James 
Wjnkler,  E  T 
Woodruff,  R 
Woodward,  S  C 
Woodward,  J  A 
Woodward  

Yqumans,  J  N 


POST  OFFICES. 

Piercetown 

Charleston 

Woodruff 

Williston 
<  < 

Little  Pee  Dee 
GilUsonville 


NAMES. 

Young,  J  W  (l) 
Young,  V 

Zealy,  J  T 
Zeigler,  L  G 
Zeigler,  Lewis 
Zeigler,  J  A 


POST  OFFICE. 

Hodges* 

Columbia 
Bull  Swamp. 
Tyler's 
Kitchen's  Mills 


a 


