286.1757 
B22m 

1856     -    irrrrr         rrr  t~-s 


MINUTES 

OP  THE 

THIHTY-SIXTH  ANNIVERSARY 

OF  THE 

STATE  CONVENTION 

OF  THE 

BAPTIST  DENOMINATION, 

IN  SOUTH-CAROLINA, 

HELD  AT 

GREENVILLE,  JULY  26-30,  1856. 

TOGETHER  WITH  AN 

ABSTRACT  OF  THE  PROCEEDINGS 

OF  THE 

BOARD  OF  TRUSTEES  OF  FURMAN  UNIVERSITY, 

HELD  AT  THE  SAME  TIME  AND  PLACE. 

) 
\ 

I 


CHARLESTON  :  ' 
JAMES  &  WILLIAMS,  PRINTERS.' 
16  STATE-STREET. 

1856. 

— m  


MINUTES 

OF  TiJE 

THIRTY-SIXTH  ANNIVERSARY 

OF  THE 

|        STATE  CONVENTION 

OF  THE 

BAPTIST  DENOMINATION, 

IN  SOUTH-CAROLINA, 


HELD  AT 


GREENVILLE,  JULY  26-30,  1856. 


TOGETHER  WITH  AN 


ABSTRACT  OF  THE  PROCEEDINGS 


BOARD  OF  TRUSTEES  OF  FURMAN  UNIVERSITY, 


HELD  AT  THE  SAME  TIME  AND  PLACE. 


CHARLESTON  : 
JAMES  &  WILLIAMS,  PRINTERS, 

16  STATE-STREET, 
1856. 


MINUTES. 


Saturday,  July  26th. 

The  members  of  the  Convention  having  assembled  in  the  Court 
House,  the  Introductory  Sermon  was  preached  by  the  Rev.  J.  H. 
Luther,  after  which  the  Convention  met,  and  was  called  to  order 
by  the  President.  The  credentials  of  delegates  were  then  called 
for,  and  the  following  names  enrolled: 

Charleston  Association. — J.  R.  Kendrick,  B.  Manly,  J.  P. 
Tustin,  E.  T.  Winkler,  J.  L.  Reynolds,  N.  Graham,  J.  K.  Menden- 
hall,  J.  T.  Zealy,  I.  Nicholes,  B.  C.  Pressley,  W.  Y.  Leitch,  J. 
Scott,  T.  A.  Wilbur,  Sam'l  Watson,  A.  A.  Nettles. 

Edgefield  Association. — J.  M.  Chiles,  W.  P.  Hill,  D.  J.  Walker, 
Z.  Watkins,  J.  Jennings,  J.  T.  Talbert,  B.  F.  Corley,  S.  B.  Brooks, 
L.  Reynolds,  B.  M.  Talbert,  W.  Smith,  R.  Zimmerman. 

Savannah  River  Association. — H.  D.  Duncan,  I.  L.  Brookes, 
W.  J.  Brookes,  A.  J.  Lawton,  J.  A.  Lawton,  B.  W.  Lawton,  J.  S. 
Lawton,  W.  B.  Carson,  J.  H.  Luther. 

Welsh  Neck  Association. — J.  Culpeper,  J.  0.  B.  Dargan,  T. 
P.  Lide,  A.  E.  Mclver,  J.  C.  Phelps,  R.  G.  Edwards,  J.  W.  Burn, 
J.  F.  Culpeper. 

Tiger  River  Association. — J.  C.  Furman,  R.  Furman,  P.  C. 
Edwards,  G.  F.  Townes,  C.  J.  Elford,  J.  G.  Landrum,  T.  P.  Brock- 
man,  J.  S.  Westmoreland,  C.  H.  Judson,  T.  B.  Roberts,  H.  W. 
Paslay,  A  B.  Woodruff. 

Reedy  River  Association. — J.  B.  O'Neall,  B.  F.  Griffin,  J.  J. 
Brantly,  S.  Barksdale,  T.  J.  Pearce,  J.  Goodlett,  J.  B.  Carwile, 
A.  K.  Durham,  J.  Harrison,  W.  Philips,  J.  Blackburn. 

Saluda  Association. — W.  B .  Johnson,  A.  Rice,  V.  Young,  L. 
Barmore,  J.  C.  Griffin,  J.  S.  Murray. 

Salem  Association. — T.  Ray,  A.  M.  Cartledge,  G.  W.  Brooks, 
W.  W.  Gwin,  H.  A.  Glenn,  J.  J.  McCants,  L.  C.  Hinton. 

Bethel  Association. — T.  D.  Gwin. 

Edisto  Association. — A.  H.  Fort,  L.  Cuthbert. 


4 


MINUTES. 


Charleston  Female  Missionary  and  Education  Society. — R.  F. 
Whilden,  J.  P.  Boyce,  E.  T.  Winkler. 
Broad  River  Bible  Society. — T.  Curtis. 

Young  Men's  Missionary  Society  of  Furman  University. — 
T.  E.  Hart,  G.  W.  Hicks. 

Newberry  Church. — R.  B.  Holman,  W.  F.  Harrington. 

Newberry  District  Bible  Society. — G.  T.  Scott,  W.  F.  Nance, 
G.  K.  Gary. 

The  Convention  then  proceeded  to  vote  for  officers,  and  Rev. 
Jas.  C.  Furman,  having  declined  a  re-election,  Rev.  Dr.  Manly 
was  chosen  President,  and  the  other  officers  of  last  year — Rev. 
J.  G.  Landrum,  Vice-President,  and  Rev.  J.  J.  Brantly,  Secre- 
tary— were  re-elected.  Prayer  was  then  offered  by  Rev.  Dr. 
Johnson. 

A  letter  of  correspondence  from  the  Twelve  Mile  Association, 
was  then  presented  and  received;  and  the  messengers,  J.  J. 
Wilson  and  N.  R.  Smith  invited  to  take  seats  in  the  Convention. 

1.  On  motion  an  invitation  was  extended  to  ministering  breth- 
ren of  our  own  denomination,  not  delegates  to  the  Convention, 
and  to  ministers  of  other  evangelical  denominations,  to  take  seats 
in  the  Convention. 

2.  The  following  resolution  was  offered  and  unanimously 
adopted: 

"Whereas  the  Rev.  Jas.  C.  Furman  having  declined  to  serve  any  longer  as 
President;  it  is  therefore, 

Resolved,  That  in  his  retirement,  he  carries  with  him  the  affectionate  regards 
and  respects  of  this  body;  and  that  the  thanks  of  the  same  be  presented  to  him, 
for  his  faithful  discharge  of  duties  during  his  Presidency. 

Communications  were  received  from  the  pastors  of  the  Presby- 
terian and  Methodist  Churches,  inviting  the  Convention  to  supply 
their  pulpits  to-morrow,  and  were  referred  to  the  committee  on 
preaching. 

4.  It  was  ordered  that  the  "Charity  Sermon"  be  omitted  for 
this  time  in  order  that  the  "Commencement  Sermon"  be  preached 
in  its  place. 

The  Convention  then  took  a  recess  until  5  p.m. 


MINUTES. 


5 


Saturday — Afternoon  Session. 

The  Convention  met,  and  was  called  to  order  by  the  President. 

5.  An  invitation  was  extended  to  the  representatives  of  kin- 
dred bodies,  to  take  seats  in  the  Convention;  whereupon  Rev.  A. 
M.  Poindexter,  Corresponding  Secretary  of  the  Foreign  Mission 
Board;  Rev.  I.  T.  Tichenor,  representative  of  the  Domestic  Mis- 
sion Board,  and  Rev.  J.  P.  Tustin,  Corresponding  Secretary  of 
the  Publication  Society,  took  seats. 

The  regular  committees  were  then  appointed  as  follows: 

On  time  and  place  of  next  meeting,  and  persons  to  perform 
stated  Services: — J.  0.  B.  Dargan,  G.  F.  Townes,  W.  F.  Nance, 
R.  F.  Whilden,  A.  E.  Mclver. 

On  Accounts.— John  Scott,  R.  G.  Edwards,  W.  Y.  Leitch,  T. 
P.  Brockman,  A.  J.  Lawton. 

Nomination  of  Board  of  Agents. — Z.  Watkins,  J.  T.  Zealy,  L. 
Cuthbert,  J.  C.  Phelps,  Jno.  B.  Carwile. 

Preparation  of  list  of  Ministers,  etc. — H.  W.  Paslay,  John 
Culpeper,  N.  Graham,  Jos.  A.  Lawton,  I.  Nicholes. 

Ox  Notice  of  deceased  Ministers. — T.  Curtis,  I.  L.  Brookes, 
E.  T.  Winkler,  J.  G.  Landrum,  J.  B.  O'Neall. 

On  Preaching. — R.  Furman,  C.  H.  Judson,  C.  J.  Elford,  breth 
ren  Goodlett  and  Williams. 

On  Minutes  and  Letters  of  corresponding  Bodies. — J.  R. 
Kendrick,  A.  Rice,  T.  P.  Lide,  W.  B.  Carson,  W.  W.  Gwin. 

The  reports  of  the  Boards  being  called  for,  the  Bible  Board  pre- 
sented theirs  which  was  received  and  ordered  to  be  printed,  and 
will  be  found  under  the  head  of  reports. 

On  motion  adjourned  to  meet  on  Monday  at  10  a.m. 


Sunday,  July  27th. 
The  "Commencement  Sermon"  was  preached  in  the  morning  by 
Rev.  Jas.  C.  Furman,  in  the  afternoon  the  sermon  before  the 
Young  Men's  Missionary  Society  of  Furman  University  was 
preached  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Manly,  and  at  night  the  Rev.  J.  G. 
Landrum  preached.  The  pulpits  of  the  Presbyterian,  Methodist, 
and  Baptist  Churches  were  also  occupied  during  the  day  by  mem- 
bers of  the  Convention. 


6 


MINUTES. 


Monday,  July  28th — Morning  Session. 

The  Convention  met,  the  President  being  in  the  chair.  After 
prayer  by  Rev.  H.  D.  Duncan,  the  minutes  were  read  and  adopted. 

Rev.  Messrs.  Buist  and  Gaillard  of  the  Presbyterian  Church, 
Rev.  Mr.  Kennedy  of  the  Methodist  Church,  and  Rev.  Messrs. 
Earle  and  R.  Mayes  of  the  Baptist  Church,  took  seats  in  the  con- 
vention under  the  resolution  of  Saturday. 

6.  The  report  of  the  Education  Board  was  presented  and  re- 
committed with  a  view  to  the  embodying  of  information,  that 
may  be  obtained  at  this  meeting'. 

*l.  The  following  resolution  was  adopted: 

Resolved,  That  a  general  agent  be  appointed,  in  behalf  of  the  various  objects 
entrusted  to  the  several  Boards. 

8.  Ordered  that  a  committee  to  consist  of  the  Chairman,  or  in 
his  absence  the  acting  Chairman  of  each  Board,  be  raised  to  no- 
minate a  suitable  person  to  act  as  general  agent. 

9.  On  motion  the  Corresponding  Secretary  of  the  Publication 
Society  was  added  to  the  committee,  and  Hon.  J.  B.  O'Neall  ap- 
pointed Chairman.  The  Committee  thus  raised  consisted  of  Hon. 
J.  B.  O'Neall  for  the  Bible  Board;  Rev.  J.  K.  Mendenhall  for  the 
Board  of  Missions,  Publication  and  Colportage;  C.  J.  Elford  for 
the  Sunday  School  Board;  T.  P.  Lide  for  the  Education  Board; 
Rev.  J.  P.  Tustin  for  the  Publication  Society. 

10.  On  motion  Dr.  Witter,  representative  of  the  New  Orleans 
"Coliseum  Place  Baptist  Church"  was  invited  to  present  to  the 
Convention  the  claims  of  that  Church. 

11.  The  following  resolutions  were  adopted: 

1.  Resolved,  That  it  is  the  sense  of  this  Convention,  that  the  enterprise  of  the 
"Coliseum  Place  Baptist  Church"  in  the  city  of  New  Orleans,  La.,  is  one  which 
commends  itself  to  the  whole  Baptist  denomination  of  the  State. 

2.  Resolved,  That  the  position  in  which  our  brother  James  H.  Low  has  been 
placed  in  consequence  of  his  generously  throwing  himself  in  the  breach,  and 
securing  the  Paulding  legacy,  calls  upon  the  generosity  and  justice  of  every 
Baptist  for  relief.  f 

3.  Resolved,  That  the  subscription  of  the  South  Carolina  Baptists  ought  to  be 
raised  to  $5,000. 

4.  Resolved,  That  we  request  every  Church  within  the  bounds  of  our  constitu- 
ency, to  make  a  collection  before  the  first  day  of  November  next,  for  this  pur- 
pose, the  avails  to  be  sent  to  Dr.  S.  Blanding,  Treasurer  of  the  Board  of  Mis- 


MINUTES. 


7 


sions,  at  Columbia,  S.  C,  to  be  forwarded  by  him  to  James  II.  Low,  Treasurer 
of  the  Coliseum  Place  Baptist  Church  in  New  Orleans. 

The  Convention  then  took  a  recess  until  5  p.m. 


Monday — Afternoon  Session. 

The  Convention  met  and  was  called  to  order  by  the  President. 

The  committee  on  the  preparation  of  a  list  of  ministers,  report- 
ed that  such  a  list  is  in  course  of  preparation,  and  when  complet- 
ed will  be  handed  to  the  Secretary. 

12.  The  report  of  the  Board  of  Missions,  Publication  and  Col- 
portage  was  submitted,  and  the  Convention  ordered  that  so  much 
of  it  as  relates  to  the  "Entzminger  Fund"  be  referred  to  a  special 
committee.  Rev.  J.  P.  Boyce  was  appointed  the  committee,  and 
the  report  was  then  received,  and  ordered  to  be  printed,  and  will 
be  found  under  the  head  of  reports.  It  was  also  ordered,  that  Rev. 
J.  P.  Tustin,  Corresponding  Secretary  of  the  Publication  Society, 
be  allowed  an  opportunity  to  present  the  claims  of  the  Society, 
before  the  Convention  to-morrow  at  11  a.m. 

13.  Rev.  E.  T.  Winkler  appointed  by  the  Convention  which 
met  in  Augusta,  in  reference  to  a  General  Theological  Seminary 
to  bring  the  subject  before  this  Convention,  performed  his  duty; 
and  on  motion  the  subject  was  referred  to  a  committee  to  report 
to  morrow.  The  committee  consisting  of  Hon.  J.  B.  O'Neall, 
Rev.  Jas.  C.  Furman,  and  Rev.  Jas.  P.  Boyce. 

14.  The  Treasurer's  report  was  submitted  and  referred  to  the 
committee  on  accounts. 

15.  It  was  ordered  that  all  monies  sent  up  from  the  various 
parts  of  our  constituency,  be  paid  to  the  Treasurer,  and  that  he 
be  requested  to  furnish  a  statement  of  the  same,  to  be  printed  in 
the  minutes  of  this  meeting. 

-16.  It  was  ordered  that  the  proceeds  of  the  collection  made 
after  the  sermon  before  the  "Young  Men's  Missionary  Society  of 
Furman  University"  be  paid  over  to  the  Society. 

IT.  An  opportunity  was  allowed  Rev.  J.  T.  Zealy,  to  present 
the  case  of  the  Columbia  Church;  and  the  following  resolution 
was  adopted: 


8 


MINUTES. 


Resolved,  That  this  Convention  realizes  the  absolute  necessity  for  a  new  house 
of  worship  in  Columbia,  and  recommends  to  the  denomination,  that  the  addi- 
tional amount  of  $6,000  be  raised  for  this  purpose. 

18.  The  committee  to  nominate  a  Board  of  agents,  submitted 
their  report,  which  was  adopted,  and  will  be  found  under  the 
head  of  reports. 

19.  Several  members  asked  leave  of  absence  for  the  remainder 
of  the  Session,  which  the  Convention  granted  for  the  reasons 
assigned. 

The  Convention  then  adjourned  to  meet  to-morrow  at  half  past 
10  a.m.    Prayer  was  offered  by  Rev.  J.  P.  Tustin. 


Tuesday,  29th — Morning  Session. 

The  Convention  met  and  was  called  to  order  by  the  President. 
After  prayer  by  Rev.  Dr.  Reynolds,  the  minutes  were  read  and 
adopted.  The  President  then  offered  prayer  in  behalf  of  Brother 
Thomas  Mason,  a  delegate  to  this  Convention,  but  not  present  on 
account  of  sad  domestic  affliction. 

In  conformity  with  the  order  of  yesterday  Rev.  J.  P.  Tustin 
presented  the  claims  of  the  Publication  Society. 

20.  The  committee  on  notice  of  deceased  ministers,  then  sub- 
mitted their  report,  which  was  received  and  ordered  to  be  print- 
ed, with  the  addition  of  the  name  of  Rev.  Jas.  J.  Long,  a  licentiate 
of  the  Furman  University,  and  will  be  found  under  the  head  of 
reports. 

21.  The  report  of  the  committee  on  time  and  place  of  next  meet- 
ing, and  persons  to  perform  stated  religious  services,  was  sub- 
mitted and  received,  and  will  be  found  under  the  head  of  reports. 

22.  A  communication  was  received  from  the  "Young  Men's 
Missionary  Society  of  Furman  University,"  placing  the  collection 
made  on  Sunday  at  the  disposal  of  the  Convention. 

23.  The  amount  of  the  above  named  collection  was  ordered  to 
be  equally  divided  between  the  Foreign  and  Domestic  Mission 
Boards. 

24.  The  committee  on  accounts  to  whom  the  Treasurer's  report 
was  referred,  reported,  and  their  report  was  received,  and  will 
be  found  under  the  head  of  reports. 


MINUTES. 


9 


25.  A  committee  consisting  of  Rev.  A.  Rice,  Rev.  Jas.  C.  Fur- 
man,  and  C.  J.  Elford,  was  appointed  to  nominate  a  suitable  per- 
son to  be  Treasurer  of  the  Convention. 

26.  A  committee  consisting  of  the  committee  to  nominate  a 
Board  of  agents,  was  appointed  to  nominate  members  of  the  dif- 
ferent Boards,  and  to  consider  the  propriety  of  increasing  the 
number  of  each  Board. 

2*7.  The  committee  to  whom  was  referred  the  subject  of  a  Ge- 
neral Theological  Seminary,  submitted  their  report,  whicli  was 
laid  on  the  table  for  a  recess. 

The  Convention  then  took  a  recess  till  5,  p.m. 


Tuesday — Afternoon  Session. 

The  Convention  met  and  was  called  to  order  by  the  President. 

A  communication  was  received  from  the  Literary  Societies  of 
Furman  University,  inviting  the  Convention  to  attend  the  annual 
celebration  of  the  Societies  to-morrow  at  11,  a.m. 

28.  The  report  of  the  committee  to  whom  the  subject  of  a  Com- 
mon .Theological  Seminary  was  referred,  was  taken  up.  A  mino- 
rity report  was  substituted  for  this,  and  on  motion  was  referred 
to  Rev.  Jas.  P.  Boyce. 

After  prayer  by  Rev.  T.  Ray,  the  Convention  adjourned  to  meet 
after  the  address  of  to-morrow. 


Wednesday,  30th— Morning  Session. 
The  Convention  met  and  was  called  to  order  by  the  President, 
and  prayer  was  offered  by  Rev.  Mr.  Buist. 

29.  The  committee  to  nominate  a  Treasurer  reported  the  name 
of  T.  B.  Roberts,  and  their  report  was  concurred  in,  and  Brother 
Roberts  chosen  Treasurer. 

30.  The  report  of  the  committee  en  minutes  and  correspondence 
was  submitted  and  received,  and  will  be  found  under  the  head  of 
reports. 

31.  The  report  of  the  minority  of  the  committee  on  the  subject 
of  a  Common  Theological  Seminary,  was  submitted,  amended  and 
adopted,  and  will  be  found  under  the  head  of  reports. 

32.  It  was  ordered  that  the  agency  of  the  Common  Theological 
Seminary  be  entrusted  to  the  General  Agent  of  the  Convention. 

The  Convention  then  took  a  recess  until  4,  p.m. 
2 


10 


MINUTES. 


Wednesday — Afternoon  Session. 
The  Convention  met,  the  President  in  the  chair. 

33.  The  following1  resolution  was  adopted: 

"Whereas,  the  Churches  and  Associations  have  been  in  the  habit  of  sending 
their  contributions  for  the  Bible  and  Foreign  and  Domestic  Missions,  to  the  dif- 
ferent Boards  by  agents,  and  otherwise,  without  being  first  sent  to  our  respec- 
tive Boards,  located  in  this  State  by  the  Convention,  and  consequently  not  ap- 
pearing in  the  minutes  of  the  Convention;  Therefore, 

Resolved,  That  we  recommed  to  the  Churches  and  Associations  in  future,  to 
send  the  amounts  contributed  for  the  said  purposes,  to  the  respective  Treasurers 
of  the  Boards,  located  by  this  Convention,  that  the  several  amounts  may  ap- 
pear in  the  minutes  of  the  Convention. 

34.  The  following'  resolution  was  adopted: 

Resolved,  That  the  General  Agent  be  instructed  to  apply  to  the  Associations, 
constituting  this  body,  for  means  to  defray  the  printing  of  the  minutes  of  the 
present  Session;  and  that  the  said  associations  be  requested  to  make  regular 
provision  for  this  purpose  hereafter. 

35.  The  committee  to  nominate  the  different  Boards  submitted 
their  report,  which  was  received  and  will  be  found  under  the 
head  of  reports. 

36.  It  was  ordered  that  the  same  persons  who  were  delegated 
to  the  Georgia  Convention,  last  year,  be  messengers  this  year. 

3t.  It  was  ordered  that  the  same  persons  who  were  sent  as 
messengers  to  the  Western  Convention  of  North  Carolina  last 
year,  be  the  messengers  this  year. 

38.  The  committee  to  nominate  delegates  to  the  Southern 
Baptist  Convention,  to  be  held  in  Louisville,  Ky.,  submitted  their 
report,  which  was  adopted,  and  will  be  found  under  the  head  of 
reports. 

39.  It  was  ordered  that  G-.  F.  Townes  be  a  committee  to  see  to 
the  due  execution  of  the  Treasurer's  bond. 

40.  The  Treasurer  submitted  a  statement  of  monies  sent  up  to 
the  Convention,  not  in  his  report,  and  will  be  found  under  the 
head  of  reports. 

41.  It  was  ordered  that  the  thanks  of  this  body  be  re- 
turned to  the  several  Rail  Road  Companies  which  have  extended 
to  the  delegates  the  privilege  of  passing  over  their  roads  for  one 
fare;  also  to  the  citizens  of  this  place  for  their  kind  and  hospitable 
entertainment  of  the  Convention;  also  to  the  Presbyterian  and 


MINUTES. 


11 


Methodist  Churches  for  the  use  of  their  Houses  of  Worship  on 
Sunday;  and  to  the  commissioners  of  public  building  for  the  use 
of  the  Court  House. 

42.  It  was  also  resolved  that  the  thanks  of  this  Convention  be 
presented  to  the  Rev.  Dr.  Manly  for  his  able,  faithful  and  cour- 
teous discharge  of  the  duties  of  the  Chair,  and  to  the  Rev.  J.  J. 
Brantly,  for  his  able,  faithful  and  courteous  discharge  of  the  duties 
of  Secretary. 

B.  MANLY,  President. 

Jxo.  J.  Brantly,  Secretary. 


11  E  PORTS. 


REPORT  OF  THE  BOARD  OF  MISSIONS,  PUBLICATIONS  AND  COLPORTAGE, 

The  Board  of  Missions,  Publication  and  Colportage,  in  presenting  their  third 
annual  report,  are  pained  that  they  are  not  able  to  offer  more  encouraging  to- 
kens of  success.    Only  sixty-one  dollars  and  sixty-five  cents  ($61  65)  have 
been  placed  at  their  disposal,  for  the  purposes  of  publication  and  colportage. 
We  are  pleased  to  state,  that  some  of  the  Associations  have  manifested  a  deep 
interest  in  colportage,  and  it  is  deeply  regretted,  that  all  of  them  do  not  en- 
gage in  this  important  work.    The  Associations  of  the  State,  are  regarded  as 
the  proper  organs,  for  conducting  this  important  enterprise.   In  the  early  part 
of  the  year,  the  Board  succeeded  in  obtaining  the  services  of  Rev.  W.  B.  El- 
kins  as  missionary  for  Richland  District.    It  is  a  source  of  gratitude  to  men- 
tion the  pleasing  success  which  has  attended  the  labors  of  this  zealous,  self-de- 
nying missionary.   No  other  missionary  is  under  the  control  of  the  Board,  nor 
has  it  the  funds  to  support  another,  if  he  could  be  obtained.    The  Board  re- 
grets that  it  cannot  present  an  accurate  statement  of  the  missionary  operations 
within  the  State.   It  cannot  ascertain  the  amounts  contributed  by  individuals 
which  were  sent  directly  to  the  Foreign  and  Domestic  Missionary  Boards. 
It  has  not  been  able  to  obtain  the  minutes  of  more  than  eight  Associations. — 
These  have  contributed 

To  Foreign  Missions,  .....         $1798  84 

Domestic     "  .         .         ..        .         .         .     .  1101  70 

Association  Missions       .....  2611  95 

$5,512  49 

With  regard  to  the  publication  interest  of  the  Board,  it  is  gratifying  to  state, 
tha^  that  the  Southern  Baptist  Publication  Society  has  secured  an  endowment 
of  twenty-two  thousand  dollars  during  the  past  year.  It  is  desirable  to  secure 
at  least  three  thousand  more  to  accomplish  the  object  proposed. 

Information  has  been  received  from  the  Trustee  of  the  Entzminger  Fund  for 
Richland  District,  that  the  funds  are  not  subject  to  our  control,  as  was  supposed, 
but  are  to  be  turned  over  to  the  Charleston  Association. 

J.  R.  Mendenhall, 

Corresponding  Secretary. 


REPORTS. 


REPORT  OF  THE  BIBLE  BOARD. 

Ill  making  their  annual  report,  the  Bible  Board  are  pleased  to  exhibit  an  en- 
couraging account  of  last  year's  doings.  Having  a  most  important  depart- 
ment of  usefulness  entrusted  to  our  hands,  we  have  naturally  felt  anxious  to 
meet  with  corresponding  exertions,  what  we  felt  to  be  expected  of  us.  Our 
first  two  annual  reports  contained  little  more,  than  a  mortifying  confession  of 
failure  to  accomplish  anything.  The  fault  we  believe  not  to  have  been  in  our- 
selves, either  in  our  devotion  to  the  cause,  or  in  the  efforts  we  actually  made  to 
advance  it.  We  appealed  again  and  again  to  our  Brethren,  to'  give  us  the 
means  of  doing  the  work  assigned  to  us,  but  our  appeals  were  not  responded  to. 
It  seemed  as  if  having  established  the  Board,  our  Brethren  were  satisfied  with 
this;  or  as  if  they  expected  us,  without  any  help  from  them,  to  do  the  whole 
work  ourselves.  We  did  hope  that  the  members  of  the  Convention,  by  whom 
the  Board  was  established,  would  have  brought  the  fact  of  its  existence  to  the 
notice  of  their  Churches  and  Associations,  and  urged  a  liberal  and  energetic 
support  of  it.  But  nothing  of  the  sort,  so  far  as  we  know,  was  done  during  the 
first  two  years  of  the  Board's  existence;  and  we  determined  to  go  to  work  on 
our  own  responsibility,  and  accomplish  all  that  we  could  by  our  own  exertions. 
Soon  after  the  adjournment  of  the  Convention  last  year,  we  visited  Greenville, 
presented  the  claims  of  the  Bible  cause  and  the  wants  of  the  Board  to  the 
Church  there,  and  organized  a  Bible  Society  for  Greenville  District,  to  be 
auxiliary  to  the  Board.  We  afterwards  visited  the  Reedy  River  Association,  and 
there  organized  a  Society  in  the  Association  to  be  auxiliary  to  the  Board. — 
Having  thus  initiated  the  work  of  organization,  and  not  being  able  personally 
to  visit  other  places,  we  determined  nevertheless  that  the  important  work  of 
auxiliary  organization  must  go  on.  Without  funds,  and  without  any  plan  of 
operations,  recommended  by  bur  own  experience,  we  thought  it  best  however^ 
to  assume  the  responsibility  of  appointing  an  agent,  and  sending  him  out  to 
visit  as  many  parts  of  the  State  as  possible,  with  a  view  to  stir  up  an  interest 
in  the  Bible  cause.  We  did  not  expect  so  much  at  first,  to  raise  any  consider- 
able amount  of  money,  as  to  call  attention  to  the  great  importance  of  our  work, 
hoping  that  when  the  subject  should  have  been  fully  presented  to  our  Brethren 
throughout  the  State,  money  would  not  afterwards  be  wanting,  to  carry  on  our 
work.  We  thought  it  best  to  employ  an  agent  at  such  a  salary  as  would  com- 
mand all  his  time  in  our  service;  it  seemed  to  us  that  this  large  expenditure  of 
force  in  starting  the  machinery,  was  no  more  than  the  necessity  of  the  case  re- 
quired. We  believed,  and  we  still  believe,  so  large  an  outlay  made  at  first,  in 
giving  a  vigorous  start  to  the  undertaking,  to  be  more  economical,  than  smaller 
sums  expended  in  successive  and  feebler  efforts.  Our  agent  was  charged  spe. 
cially  with  the  business  of  organizing  auxiliary  Bible  Societies,  and  out  of  their 
contributions  his  salary  was  to  be  paid.  And  we  hoped,  that  when  this  organi- 
zation should  have  been  effected  through  the  State,  we  should  hereafter  have 
funds  enough  from  the  annual  contributions  of  the  auxiliaries,  to  continue  the 
agency  and  the  work  of  Bible  distribution.  And  we  are  satisfied,  that  if  such 
an  organization  could  be  effected,  and  if  annual  contributions,  pressing  lightly 
on  individuals,  were  regularly  and  promptly  made,  your  Board  would  always 
have  funds  enough  in  hand  to  meet  the  wants  of  the  destitute  in  our  State.— 


14 


REPORTS. 


We  appointed  and  commissioned  as  our  agent,  Rev.  A.  K.  Durham,  who  en- 
tered upon  his  work  soon  afterwards,  and  visited  several  Churches  and  Associa- 
tions, organizing  in  them  all,  auxiliary  societies.  He  was  employed  at  first  for 
three  months,  as  an  experiment.  His  success  in  that  time,  in  organizing  socie- 
ties, and  raising  funds,  was  such  as  fully  to  justify  us  in  having  made  the  ex- 
periment. He  not  only  secured  enough  money  to  defray  his  own  expenses,  but 
to  leave  a  considerable  balance  in  the  hands  of  the  Treasurer.  At  the  expira- 
tion of  his  engagement  he  resigned  the  agency  for  personal  reasons.  A  pro- 
spect then  offered  of  securing  the  services  of  a  brother  in  North  Carolina,  who 
would  have  made  a  most  efficient  agent;  the  agency  was  offered  to  him,  and  on 
his  declining  it,  we  thought  it  best  to  employ  no  one,  until  after  the  meeting  of 
the  Convention.  "We  think  it  absolutely  necessary  to  have  an  agent;  and  we 
hope  to  be  able  to  secure  the  services  of  a  brother  in  this  capacity,  well  known 
in  the  State,  and  who  has  already  proved  himself  to  be  well  fitted  for  the  ser- 
vice. When  the  work  is  fully  underweigh,  we  propose  that  our  agent  shall  not 
act  as  an  agent  merely,  but  also  as  a  missionary  and  colporteur;  holding 
meetings  with  the  Cnurches,  seeking  out  the  destitute  and  supplying  their 
wants. 

As  to  the  organization  of  auxiliary  societies,  we  are  satisfied  that  this  must 
be  done.  We  know  that  if  Christians  were  always  and  everywhere  under  the 
supreme  control  of  that  spirit  which  loves  to  devise  liberal  things  for  God,  and 
finds  its  constant  employment  in  forming  plans,  and  pursuing  motives,  which 
stand  in  direct  connexion  with  the  glory  of  God,  and  the  well  being  of  man;  if 
at  all  times  and  in  all  places  the  love  of  Christ  constrained  them,  and  the  glory 
of  Christ  urged  them  to  perform  the  duties  which  he  has  commanded,  there 
would  be  no  need  for  any  organizations  outside  of  the  Church.  In  that  case 
every  Church  would  be  itself  a  thoroughly  organized  and  thoroughly  efficient  so- 
ciety for  all  the  purposes  of  active  benevolence.  In  that  case  the  only  agent  we 
should  need  to  enforce  the  duty  of  charity,  would  be  the  indwelling  spirit  of 
love  to  God  and  man.  But  this  not  being  the  case,  ours  being  but  an  imperfect 
state,  and  piety  being  liable  through  the  weakness  and  waywardness  of  human 
nature,  to  many  fluctuations,  we  do  need  agents  and  organizations,  to  excite  the 
devotion  of  the  lukewarm,  to  stimulate  the  zeal  of  the  indolent  and  careless, 
and  to  keep  constantly  before  the  minds  of  all  the  great  obligations  of  duty. 
Your  Board  are  not  fully  committed  to  any  one  plan  of  organization;  but  we 
think  the  plan  ought  to  be  as  simple  as  possible.  That  of  District  Bible  Socie- 
ties, we  think,  perhaps  is  the  best.  Such  a  society  has  been  in  existence  in  New- 
berry District  for  twenty  years.  This  society  has  been  accustomed  to  hold  its 
meetings  once  a  year,  with  each  church  in  succession  in  the  district.  It  has 
three  times  gone  the  rounds  of  the  churches,  and  every  year  its  contributions 
have  amounted  to  at  least  $50.  The  President  and  other  officers  have  always 
made  ii  a  matter  of  duty  and  conscience,  to  attend  the  meetings.  A  sermon 
and  an  address  have  been  regularly  delivered;  and  in  passing  over  the  district 
in  this  way,  most  if  not  all  the  members  of  the  different  Churches  have  been 
from  time  to  time  enrolled  as  members  of  the  Society.  The  price  of  member- 
ship has  been  fixed  at  one  dollar  per  annum;  life  membership  at  ten  dollars. — 
Much  interest  has  always  been  manifested  at  the  annual  meetings,  and  we  be- 
lieve that  if  a  similar  society  were  formed  in  every  district,  and  kept  up  with 
the  same  diligence  and  perseverance,  your  Board  would  have  it  in  their  power 


REPORTS. 


15 


to  do  much  in  the  work  of  Bible  distribution.  Where  the  Districts  are  large, 
and  the  Churches  numerous,  two  or  more  District  Societies  might  be  formed. 
Besides  the  contributions  from  societies  we  might  reasonably  count  on  securing 
through  our  agent,  contributions  from  individuals  to  a  considerable  amount, 
which  in  addition  to  the  others  would  give  us  money  enough  to  carry  on  a 
large  and  useful  work.  The  plan  of  having  Associational  and  Church  Socie- 
ties, in  addition  to  District  Societies,  we  do  not  entirely  approve,  as  making 
the  organization  too  complicated.  Where  such  societies  have  already  been 
formed,  it  was  done  to  create  an  immediate  interest  in  the  Bible  cause,  and 
from  the  fact  of  our  being  without  experience  of  the  working  of  a  plan,  em- 
bracing the  three  kinds  of  organizations.  We  prefer  the  simple  plan  to  which 
reference  has  been  made,  though  we  would  have  the  Associational  and  Church 
Societies  already  established,  to  go  on.  If  it  be  the  purpose  of  the  Convention 
to  continue  this  Board,  we  hope  to  be  aided  and  sustained  in  our  efforts.  We 
can  do  nothing  without  your  assistance.  We  are  willing  to  give  ourselves  to 
the  work,  but  it  is  evident  enough  that  no  amount  of  cheerful  service  on  our 
part  will  avail  to  accomplish  any  good  results,  without  the  zealous  co-operation 
of  our  Brethren.  If  your  Board  is  not  to  be  a  mere  cipher;  if  it  is  not  to  have 
something  more  to  do,  and  is  not  to  do  something  more  than  fill  a  place  in  the 
nominal  organization  of  the  Convention,  we  must  have  help.  Better  to  abolish 
the  Board  at  once,  than  to  give  us  work  to  do  without  the  means  of  doing  it. 
We  entreat  you  then  ,Brethren,  to  help  us;  let  every  member  of  the  Convention, 
whether  an  official  person  in  the  Church  or  not,  advocate,  in  all  the  ways  he 
can,  the  claims  of  the  Bible  cause,  and  present  and  urge  the  wants  of  the 
Board,  and  let  every  one  do  this  constantly  and  faithfully,  and  we  ask  nothing 
more  at  your  hands.  Your  Board  so  far  as  they  are  able,  will  personally  visit 
the  Churches  and  Associations  for  this  purpose.  They  will  employ  an  agent, 
and  they  will  exert  themselves  to  the  extent  of  their  abilities,  in  helping  for- 
ward the  work.  The  Societies  organized  during  the  past  year,  or  previously 
existing  and  in  connexion  with  the  Board,  are  as  follows: 

Newberry  District  Bible  Society, 

Greenville     "        "  " 

Reedy  River  Asso'l  "  " 

Salem  "      "  11 

Bethel  "      "  « 

Welsh  Neck      "      "  " 

Sav'ah  River    "      "  " 

Bush  River  Church  "  " 

Pine  Pleasant  "       "  " 

Goodhope       "       "  " 
The  money  received,  expended  and  now  in  hand,  as  appears  by  the  Treasu- 
rer's report,  is  as  follows  : 

Amount  received,        ......      $1075  01 

"      expended,      .         .         .         .         .         .  659  15 

"      on  hand         .         .         .         .         .         .  415  86 

Of  the  whole  amount  reported  above  as  received,  a  considerable  portion 
was  not  paid  directly  to  the  Treasurer  of  this  Board,  but  was  sent  to  the 
Treasurer  of  the  General  Board,  at  Nashville,  and  by  him  reported  to  our 
Board,  to  appear  in  our  report,  along  with  money  paid  into  our  Treasurer's 


16 


REPORTS. 


hands,  so  as  to  show  the  whole  amount  contributed  by  ihe  State,  for  the  Bible 
cause.  The  understanding  with  the  General  Board  is,  that  whatever  money 
may  be  sent  directly  to  them,  from  the  State,  will  be  expended  in  this  State , 
on  application  ;  and  whatever  money  is  paid  directly  to  our  Board,  is  to  be 
reported  to  them,  so  that  the  report  of  the  General  Board,  may  show  the  whole 
amount  actually  contributed  by  the  State.  It  is  desirable,  however — and  we 
now  make  the  request  of  all  auxiliary  societies  and  other  contributors  in  this 
State — that  all  contributions  be  hereafter  sent  to  our  Treasurer,  Mr.  John  B. 
Carwile,  Newberry,  So.  Ca.  He  will  then  report  to  the  Treasurer  of  the  Gen- 
eral Board,  and  it  will  amount  to  the  same  thing,  as  if  the  money  had  passed 
through  his  hands,  with  this  difference  however,  that  if  the  money  should  be 
needed  in  this  State,  it  will  not  have  first  to  be  sent  to  Nashville,  and  then  back 
to  Newberry.  The  Treasurer  has  given  a  bond  in  the  sum  of  one  thousand 
dollars.  It  was  ordered  at  the  last  meeting  of  the  Board,  "that  on  the  applica- 
tion of  any  Baptist  minister  in  this  State,  Bibles  be  furnished  him  for  sale,  and 
gratuitous  distributions."  This  will  enable  all  who  are  disposed  to  do  so,  to 
act  as  colporteurs  for  the  Board.  We  now  commend  this  cause  to  your  prayers 
and  sympathies  and  charitable  regards.  We  earnestly  call  upon  you  to  aid  us 
in  this  blessed  work.  Let  the  animating  consideration  be  present  to  your 
minds,  that  whatever  you  may  do  in  this  cause,  with  which,  as  well  as  with 
others,  God  has  been  pleased  to  connect  his  glory,  shall  not  be  in  vain.  "  Be 
ye  strong  therefore,  and  let  not  your  hands  be  weak,  for  your  work  shall  be 
rewarded."  If  the  rewards  of  benevolence  were  confined  to  the  present  life, 
they  would  still  constitute  an  ample  equivalent  for  all  the  sacrifices  made  in 
their  pursuit.  The  servants  of  such  a  cause,  the  ministers  of  such  an  interest, 
would  be  well  paid.  All  their  losses  would  be  richly  compensated.  But  the 
high  rewards  of  well  doing  are  reserved  for  the  state  of  ultimate  retribution. 

Our  charities  when  multiplied  to  their  most  imposing  extent,  are  utterly 
worthless  when  put  forward  as  the  price  of  salvation.  Their  value  lies  in  the 
spirit  of  humility  and  self-renunciation  with  which  they  are  made,  and  from 
which  they  proceed.  When  consecrated  purely  to  the  glory  of  *God;  when 
simply  expressive  of  devout  gratitude;  when  marked  with  the  imprint  of  godly 
sincerity,  they  become  an  offering  which  Heaven  regards  with  complacence. — 
How  inconsiderable  soever  such  acts  may  be,  they  shall  not  lose  their  reward. 
Though  in  themselves  but  small  fractional  parts  of  the  great  integral  system  of 
duty,  they  shall  be  considered  of  sufficient  importance  to  be  proclaimed  before 
an  assembled  universe,  and  to  become  the  elementary  principles  of  everlasting 
life.  The  honor  which  the  Almighty  thus  bestows  on  our  feeble  ministration 
should  teach  us  their  importance.  In  truth  nothing  done  in  the  cause  of  God, 
and  with  the  single  aim  of  advancing  his  authority  and  extending  the  blessings 
of  His  grace,  can  be  little.  His  presence  imparts  a  luster  to  every  object;  His 
command  gives  force  to  every  observance,  and  His  approving  benediction,  is 
the  one  great  and  much  desired  end  towards  which  His  servants  are  pressing. 

Jno.  J.  Brantlt,  Secretary. 


REPORTS. 


It 


REPORT  OF  THE  EDUCATION  BOARD. 

In  making  their  second  annual  report,  your  Board  are  sorry  to  say.  that  the 
prospects  of  success  in  the  furtherance  of  the  objects  for  which  they  were  ap- 
pointed by  your  body,  arc  far  less  encouraging,  than  they  could  wish,  or  than 
the  importance  of  those  objects  would  seem  to  demaud.  To  the  support  of  the 
three  beneficiaries,  now  engaged  in  a  course  of  study,  at  the  Furman  Universi- 
ty, the  whole  amount  in  the  treasury  of  the  Board  was  appropriated  in  the  early 
part  of  the  present  session,  but  has  proved  insufficient  to  meet  their  expenses, 
the  Treasurer  being  now  considerably  in  advance  of  their  half  year's  allow- 
ance. In  order  to  meet  this  difficulty,  the  Corresponding  Secretary,  by  the 
direction  of  the  Board,  published  in  the  columns  of  the  Southern  Baptist  a 
circular  to  the  Churches  and  Associations  throughout  the  State,  soliciting  their 
aid  in  supplying  the  amount  thus  advanced,  and  the  additional  amount  neces- 
sary to  the  whole  year's  expenses  of  the  young  brethren  referred  to;  but  so  far 
no  response  has  been  made.  Your  Board  had  hoped,  that  they  would  be  able 
if  they  could  not  bring  under  their  supervision  the  contributions  to  this  cause 
of  the  denomination  at  large,  at  least  to  report  to  your  Body,  what  was  being 
done  in  this  department  of  Christian  benevolence.  But  in  this  also  they  have 
been  disappointed,  having  failed  to  obtain  any  information  on  the  subject.  The 
only  Body,  of  the  amount  of  whose  contributions  in  this  matter  your  Board 
have  any  knowledge,  is  the  Welsh  Neck  Association.  It  is  perhaps  due  to  this 
Association  to  say,  that  while  they  heartily  concur  in  the  appointment  of  your 
Board  for  the  purpose  contemplated,  yet  owing  to  the  requirements  of  their 
constitution,  they  do  not  feel  at  liberty  to  operate  through  them,  in  the  aid 
which  they  may  be  enabled  to  extend  to  young  men  preparing  for  the  ministry. 
Their  own  Board  of  Education  have  the  control  of  this  matter,  and  are  now 
furnishing  the  means  of  support  to  two  beneficiaries  at  the  University.  Your 
Board  would  in  conclusion  state,  that  they  deem  it  important  to  adopt  some 
specific  rules,  necessary  to  a  successful  advancement  of  the  interest  entrusted 
to  them.    They  have  therefore  determined  upon  the  following  : 

1.  That  all  beneficiaries  of  this  Board  be  required  to  give  their  individual 
bond,  to  refund  the  amount  severally  expended  by  them  in  the  prosecution  of 
their  studies,  provided  they  shall  abandon  their  studies,  without  the  consent  of 
the  Board,  before  completing  their  course;  or  devote  themselves  to  other  pur- 
suits, to  the  exclusion  of  ministerial  labor.  The  bond  thus  given  shall  bear 
interest  from  the  time  of  their  dissolving  their  connection  with  the  Board, — 
Your  Board  regards  this  course  proper,  in  view  of  the  frequent  delinquency  on 
the  part  of  students  in  these  respects;  thus  disappointing  the  purpose  of  the 
donors,  and  wasting  the  funds  appropriated  for  their  benefit. 

2  That  hereafter  all  applicants  for  assistance  from  this  Board,  be  required  to 
appear  before  them,  for  examination,  during  the  annual  sitting  of  the  State 
Convention,  and  at  whatever  place  said  Convention  shall  meet,  or  in  the  mean- 
time at  Darlington  C.  H.,  having  given  previous  notice  to  the  Board  of  their 
intention  to  this  effect.  Respectfully  submitted. 

G.  B.  Bealer,  Cor.  Secretary. 

The  above  report  was  recommitted,  that  such  statistics  as  could 
be  obtained  from  persons  in  attendance  upon  the  Convention, 
might  be  appended.    The  following  statement  is  the  result: 
3 


18 


REPORTS 


Number  of  beneficiaries  sustained  by  individuals,          ,                   „  3 

Number  sustained-by  Tiger  River  Association  and  individuals,           .  1 

"         "       11    Charleston  Female  Missionary  and  Educ?n  Society,  1 

"         "       "    Charleston  Association,    ....  2 

M       "    Savannah  River  Association,  1 

"         "       "    Reedy  River  Association,           ...  1 

"       "   McBryde  Fund,     .....  1 

:'    specified  in  body  of  report,                   ....  5 

Total,  15 


REPORT  OF  COMMITTEE  ON  GENERAL  THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 


The  committee  of  the  Convention  to  whom  was  referred  the  action  of  the 
Convention  in  Augusta,  regarding  a  Common  Theological  Institution,  would 
recommend  the  Convention  to  make  the  following  reply  to  their  inquiries : 

That  the  funds  for  theological  purposes  in -the  State  of  South  Carolina,  are 
no  longer  in  the  hands  of  the  State  Convention  of  the  Baptist  denomination, 
but  have  been  transferred  by  them  to  the  Board  of  Trustees  of  the  Furman 
University  5 

That  we  believe  that  that  Board  will  transfer  those  funds  to  the  Trustees  of 
the  Common  Institution,  upon  the  same  conditions  which  we  annex  to  our  offer 
for  a  location  at  Greenville  ; 

That  we  will  try  to  raise  an  amount  which  conjointly  with  those  funds,  shall 
secure  to  such  an  Institution  from  this  State,  the  sum  of  one  hundred  thousand 
dollars  ; 

Provided  that  these  donations  are  made  upon  the  condition,  that  the  Institu- 
tion shall  be  located  at  Greenville,  S.  C.  ; 

That  the  said  Institution  shall  be  further  endowed  with  an  additional  sum  of 
one  hundred  thousand  dollars;  and  that  should  an  Institution  thus  endowed, 
not  be  kept  up  at  that  place,  the  funds  given  by  the  Board  of  the  Furman  Uni- 
versity, or  raised  by  this  Convention,  shall  inure  to  the  Furman  University,  for 
Theological  purposes  in  South  Carolina. 

Your  committee  further  recommend,  that  the  Brethren  I.  L.  Brookes,  J.  C, 
Furman,  J.  P.  Boyce,  J.  G.  Landrum,  and  J.  A.  Lawton  shall  be  appointed  our 
delegates  to  meet  in  Convention  at  Louisville,  such  brethren  as  shall  be  ap- 
pointed from  States  and  Colleges,  to  consider  the  subject  of  Theological  educa- 
tion, and  that  these  brethren  be  empowered  to  fill  all  vacancies  in  their  num- 
ber. 

And  still  further  they  recommend,  that  measures  be  taken  by  the  Convention 
at  once,  to  find  out  what  amount  of  funds  can  be  collected  from  the  Baptists  of 
this  State  for  this  purpose,  and  how  far  our  delegates  to  Louisville  can  say  po- 
sitively, that  the  amount  has  been  raised,  the  report  of  the  Agent  being  made 
to  the  Chairman  of  that  delegation. 

And  also  that  the  donations  thus  secured,  whether  amounting  to  seventy 
thousand  dollars  or  more,  or  less,  be  considered — unless  expressly  otherwise 
limited — as  pledges  which  shall  inure  to  the  Furman  University,  for  Theologi- 
cal purposes  in  South  Carolina,  if  the  proposition  thus  made  shall  not  be  ac- 
cepted within  two  years  from  the  1st  June,  1857. 


REPORTS. 


19 


Also  that  the  pledges  shall  be  taken  in  the  form  of  bonds,  payable  to  the 
Treasurer  of  this  Conventien,  one  half  on  the  1st  January,  1858,  the  other  half 
vn  the  1st  January,  1859,  the  funds  to  be  held  in  trust  by  this  Convention,  and 
to  be  applied  by  them,  ^accordance  with  the  foregoing  provisions. 

James  P.  Boyce,  Com. 


REPORT  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  TO  DOMINATE  A  GENERAL  AGENT. 

The  committee  appointed  to  select  a  suitable  General  Agent  for  the  different 
Boards,  have  had  the  subject  under  consideration.  They  have  been  unable  to 
do  more,  than  to  select  a  General  Agent  for  the  balance  of  this  calendar  year. 
Dr.  H.  W.  Pasley,  in  the  judgment  of  this  committee,  is  the  only  available  per- 
son within  our  reach,  who  can  enter  upon  the  work  at  once,  and  carry  out  the  pur- 
poses of  the  Convention.  He  can,  and  will  proceed  immediately  to  visit  all 
the  Associations.  It  is  very  desirable  jfchat  such  of  these  bodies,  as  have  no 
correspondence  with  the  convention,  should  at  once  be  brought  (if  possible)  to 
see,  that  they  would  best  promote  the  cause  of  the  Great  Head  of  the  Church, 
by  becoming  constituent  members.  Tliis  Dr.  Paslay — if  any  one  can  accom- 
plish it — will  do. 

The  scheme  of  labor  for  each  Board  will  be  pointed  out  by  it;  and  they  are 
requested  to  furnish  at  a  very  early  day,  the  same  to  the  General  Agent,  The 
committee  would  especially  charge  him  with  the  duty  of  extending  the  circula- 
tion of  the  Southern  Baptist,  and  the  interest  of  the  Publication  Society.  He 
will  be  content  with  a  salary  of  one  thousand  dollars  per  annum;  and  his  ex- 
penses, not  to  exceed  two  hundred  dollars  in  one  entire  year,  to  be  paid. 
These  sums,  the  committee  think,  should  be  borne  and  paid  by  the  different 
Boards,  who  may  have  his  services  rateably,  and  to  whom  be  is  directed  to 
make  quarterly  reports,  and  to  pay  over  the  funds  collected. 

The  committee  recommend  that  at  the  end  of  the  year,  or  as  soon  after  as 
practicable,,  they  be  authorized  to  appoint  a  permanent  General  Agent  of  the 
Convention;  or  to  discontinue  the  office  if  the  working  should  show  the  scheme 
to  be  unprofitable. 

John  Belton  O'Neall,  Chairman. 


REPORT  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  ON  DECEASED  MINISTERS. 

Your  committee  to  whom  was  assigned  the  duty  of  making  a  brief  record 
of  deceased  ministers,  beg  leave  to  report,  that  God  in  His  mercy  has  deprived 
us  this  year  of  but  two  ministerial  brethren.  Brother  J.  S.  Shadrack,  of  the 
Edgefield  Association,  and  Brother  Jonathan  Davis,  of  the  Salem  Association. 

Brother  Shadrack  died  at  about  45  years  of  age,  having  been  an  ordained 
minister  among  us  between  five  and  six  years.  He  was  originally  connected 
with  the  Methodist  Church;  was  an  cxhorter  in  that  connection  for  some  years, 
and  licensed  by  his  Baptist  brethren  to  preach  a  considerable  time  before  he 
was  ordained.  Throughout  his  life  he  sustained  an  unimpeached  moral  charac- 
ter; enjoyed  the  entire  confidence  of  his  brethren  in  all  he  undertook  for  them; 
and  is  gone,  we  cannot  doubt,  to  render  an  account  that  will  be  accepted  of  the 
talents  committed  to  him. 


20 


REPORTS. 


Brother  Jonathan  Davis  was  at  bis  death  in  his  seventieth  year,  above  thirty 
of  which  he  had  been  in  the  ministry.  He  was  a  man  of  superior  natural  pow- 
ers, of  remarkable  decision  of  character,  and  of  considerable  success  in  the 
ministry  of  his  brighter  days.  Re  was  self-sacrificing,  and  liberal,  while  he 
had  the  means  of  being  so;  always  energetic  and  industrious  in  his  various  cal- 
lings. It  pleased  God  that  he  should  become  lame,  by  a  serious  accident,  and 
to  bring  other  clouds  of  trial  over  his  later  days,  but  he  passed  through  all 
with  an  unwavering  faith.  He  was  a  very  faithful  member  of  the  Board  of  this 
Convention,  and  for  a  number  of  years. its  President,  at  all  times  manifesting 
a  deep  interest  in  the  objects  which  our  Convention  is  designed  to  promote; 
and  even  after  he  became  crippled,  he  still  continued  his  pious  labors;  while 
an  invalid  his  zealous  interest  in  the  advancemeut  of  our  Saviour's  kingdom 
led  him  to  accept  an  appointment  as  agent  for  one  of  our  Mission  Boards,  and 
the  exhaustions  of  this  service  are  thought  to  have  accelerated  his  death.  The 
committee  have  also  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the  death  of  our  young  Brother 
James  J.  Long,  a  licenced  minister,  and  at  the  time  of  his  death  a  student  in  the 
Furman  University.  He  was  a  young  man  of  uncommonly  fine  promise,  a  di- 
ligent and  apt  scholar;  he  would  have  graduated  at  the  commencement  of  this 
year,  and  according  to  the  testimony  of  one  of  his  instructors  would  have  been 
easily  the  first  in  the  class. 

T.  Cuetis,  Chairman. 


REPORT  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  TO  PREPARE  A  LIST  OF  MINISTERS  AND  THEIR 

POST  OFFICES. 

The  committee  on  the  names  of  ministers  and  their  post  offices,  beg  leave  to 
report,  that  there  is  a  complete  list  of  all  the  ministers  in  the  State,  together 
with  their  post  offices,  in  preparation,  and  will  be  completed  and  handed  over 
to  the  Secretary,  in  time  to  be  published  in  the  minutes  of  the  Convention. 

H.  W.  Faslay,  Chairman. 


REPORT  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  ON  TIME  AND  PLACE  OF  NEXT  MEETING,  AND 
PERSONS  TO  PERFORM  STATED  RELIGIOUS  SERVICES. 

The  committee  on  time  on  time  and  place  of  next  meeting,  and  persons  to 
preach,  recommend  Greenwood  as  the  place  of  meeting;  time  Saturday  bef  ore 
the  fourth  Lord's  Day  in  July.  Introductory  sermon  by  He  v.  E.  T.  Winkler, 
Alternate  Rev.  J.  A.  Lawton.  Charity  sennon  Rev.  J.  J.  Brantly;  Alter- 
nate Rev.  H.  A.  Duncan. 

J.  0.  B.  Dakgan,  .  Chairman. 


REPORT  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  TO  NOMINATE  DELEGATES    TO  THE  SOUTHERN 
BAPTIST  CONVENTION. 

The  committee  to  nominate  delegates  to  the  Southern  Baptist  Convention  re- 


REPORTS. 


21 


port  the  followrting  names:  Rev.  Dr.  Manly,  Rev.  J.  P.  Tustin,  Rev.  J.  G.  Lan- 
drura,  Rev.  Dr.  Curtis,  Rev.  L  L.  Brookes,  Rev.  H.  D.  Duncan,  Rev.  J.  P.  Boyce 
Rev.  E.  T.  Winkler,  Rev.  J.  R.  Kendrick,  Rev.  J.  J.  Brantly,  Rev.  J.  0.  B. 
Dargan. 

J.  R.  MfcNDKNUALL,  Chairman. 


REPORT  OF  THE  COMMITTEE  TO  NOMINATE  A  BOARD  OF  AGENTS. 

The  committee  to  nominate  a  Board  of  agents,  report  the  following  names: 
Prof.  C.  H.  Judson,  Rev.  J.  R.  Kendrick,  Rev.  R.  Furman,  Rev.  J.  O.  B.  Dar- 
gan, Rev*  J.  P.  Boyce,  und  the  officers  of  the  Convention. 

Z.  W atkins,  Chairman. 


REPORT  OF  COMMITTEE  TO  NOMINATE  BOARDS. 

The  committee  appointed  to  nominate  members  of  the  different  Boards,  and  to 
consider  the  propriety  of  increasing  the  number  of  each  Board,  report  that  they 
do  not  recommend  an  increase  in  the  members  of  the  Boards  at  this  time.  They 
recommend  the  appointment  of  the  following  Boards  for  the  ensuing  year: 

Board  of  Missions,  Publication,  ond  Colportage,  at  Columbia. — President,  J.  T.  Zealy ; 
Secretary,  J.  R.  Mende  lhall;  Treasurer,  J.  Walker;  Managers,  L.  C.  Hinton,  J. 
Scott,  A.  H.  Fort,  J.  W.  Powell. 

Sunday  School  Board,  at  Greenville. — President,  C.  J.  Eiford;  Secretary,  T.  0. 
Donaldson;  Treasurer,  Richard  Furman;  Managers,  J.  G.  Landrum,  T.J.  Earle, 
J.  W.  Long,  G.  F.  Townes. 

Education  Board,  at  Darlington. — President,  T.  P.  Lide;  Secretary,  G.  B.  Bealer; 
Treasurer,  Dr.  S.  H.  Pressley;  Managers,  R.  G.  Edwards,  Allen  Mclver,  J.  CvB^ 
Dargan,  J.  W.  Burns. 

Bible  Board,  at  Newberry. — President,  J.  B.  O'Neali;  Secretary,  J.  J.  Brantly; 
Treasurer,  J.  B.  Carwile;  Managers,  W.  H.  Harrington,  G.  T:  Scott,  B.  F.  Griffin, 
J.  R.  Gary.  •  .'  \ 

Z.  "Watkins.  Chairman. 


REPORT  OF  COMMITTEE  ON  MINUTES  AND  CORRESPONDENCE. 

The  committee  on  minutes  and  letters  of  corresponding  bodies,  report  that 
they  are  aware  of  no  communications  requiring  attention,  except  one  from  the 
Twelve  Mile  Association,  which  communication  cannot  be  found.  They  recom- 
mend that  corresponding  messengers  be'  appointed  to  attend  the  next  meeting 
of  that  body,  and  that  a  letter  be  written  for  them  to  bear. 

J.  R.  Kendrick,  Chairman. 


22 


treasurer's  report. 


B5 


3  3 


(J;  1  1  O 

o 

1212 

as 
i— i 

CO  O  I 
r-l 

to 
»o 

tc  o>  o  o 

io'^s  1 

1 

O  c3  a 
'    CO  o 


"  O  to 

"  .00 


—  P-  o 

£  ^oo  ^  p  - 

to 


£  P 
_  o 

t>  C3 


15s 
s 


Er>  SO 


3  «H 

-P 

En 


-3  03  .„  o 

o  o 


e3  o 

£  "3 

^  .5 

P-.  ^ 


2i  03 


O  «  aW 


pq     Pnft  <q^ 


m 
Ph 

KWPQ 
02  02 


a 
o 

i  pa 


S  03  b 
03 

£  «  « 

-  c  p 

—  S3  el 


15  9 


o  o 

to  o 

•hh  to  o>  o  >o 

CO  GO 

o  o 

i-i  to 

o  o 

C0(NI>O<N 

o  jo 

£  «o 

00  Oi  O  CO  r-l  1 

1° 

CM 

I3" 

<y> 

cO 

CM 

iO  ©  o 

© 

"O 

O 

o 

"f 

o 

i>  ©  o 

o 

CO 

CO  o 

o 

tO 

CO 

o  ©  o» 

>o 

CO 

rH  CS 

CM 

o 

tO 

T—1 

OS  r-l  CM 

o 

©  r-« 

o 

CM 

CM 

«*3 

** 

1—1 

>  S3 

o 


-  s  i 
lpnfi 

« -s  - 

i>  C3  o 
S  o  o 

is  s 

S3   0  <5 

>>  • 

fc.  o 
^3  ^  -=1 
d  s  o 
S"hPh 
o 


O 

§  § 

cZ  CO 

5  ■ 

O  w 

Si 


CP  .-H 


2  S 


o  o 


6  to  " 

Pi  o 

C3  S 

p  ^J 
o 


CC  3 


^  °  o 
o  o  ^  co  -s 
fnpj  fl  p. ^ 
P-J-2S 

jsi§ 

p  g  -2  .IS 

o  O  P 

wOP*<l 


P4 

o 
>-» 


be 


-&  P 
.2  ° 
*0  'cO 
O  t» 

jl 

C3  'r3 

a 

03 

b 

C3 
P 

o 


REPORT. 


St  dement  of  Monies  sent  up,  and  not  included  in  ike  Treasurers 

Report 

Black  Swamp  Female  Benevolent  Society — 

Indian  Missions,  -       .       -       -  -   ' '  *  $41  00 

China       "             ......  22  00 

Central  Africa  Missions,      -       -  -       -  IT  00 

Furman  Theological  Institution,      -       -       -  10  00 

$90  00 

Young  Men's  Missionary  Society  of  the  Furman  Univer- 
sity, $100  00 
Foreign  Missions,  -       -       -       -       $50  00 
Domestic  Missions,    -       -       *       -     50  00 

C,  J,  Elford,  Treasurer. 


REPORT  OF  THE  TREASURER  OF  THE  BIBLE  BuARD. 


W    >  S3 


ps  O  _.  ^ 

&g§B! 

B  Sr2.s;  5-' 


W    2  5 

G 

ta 


2~  P  _ 


5  53=; 

-5  rr-i 


o    f3  »p  *  5*    ra  » 


0S§ 


2> 


cap 
•g  j?_ 
~-  . 

"<  (5 

a  -3 
§1? 
5  2 
£.£  H 

5©i 

n  <*  3 

«  m  > 

o  j_,  — 

p'gJCB 


j  Ol     OO  — 

1  s  gg 

100  00 
1  25 
3  00 

[  fco  !  >— •  to 

I   L_-  I  Wi-WifeC.O 

1  o    o<  too  c  o  o 

1C3  00 
13  00 

85  oi 

>-»>&.  CO                     >-»i£k         CO  to 
HO>-ffiCiW»WWCis  OOiO 

o.uoooooooooo  oooo 

OwlOOOOOOOOO       1  CM 

1 

0  4» 

<o 

o 
If- 

8  1 

I 

o 

8§ 

8 

coo 

OO 

2  S 

o                  •  S 

c'=-2 

o  ■*  i  D 
£.*  —  5 
<r  3 

-  ^cp 

o  3  B 
O   <  3 

•  §3| 

n;  cr  -• 
2  =>  2" 


~.  as  — . 
#3  P» 


■  p         »  .  « 


or 

cop 

§  §  E 


03  03 

«<>  HI 

p  3  p 
o  s  o 
I*  I 
gg  2.2x2. 

P  _P  _  C-M 

*   03  <<  -  2"<,s 

. e-?5S 
'  P  2  2  3  o 


<  a> 

goo 


si 


to 

OO 

ogg 

00  8 
00  OS 

$163  00 
1    49  80 

$1,075  01 

ita.cn 
«1(S 
00— • 

en    O    K-            en  £2 

O      £t      O                  CO  ]Z 

8  8  s       g  g 

CONSTITUTION. 


REVISED  AND  AMENDED. 


We,  the  Representatives  of  the  constituent  bodies  of  the  State 
Convention  of  the  Baptist  Denomination  in  South  Carolina,  do 
agree  upon  the  following-  Articles,  as  forming-  the  annexed  Con- 
stitution of  the  Convention,  and  the  basis  of  the  union: 

ARTICLE  I. 

This  Body  shall  be  styled  the  State  Convention  of  the  Baptist 
Denomination  in  South  Carolina. 

ARTICLE  II. 

The  grand  objects  of  this  Convention  shall  be:  The  promotion 
of  religious  education,  and  particularly  that  of  pious  young  men 
designed  for  the  Gospel  ministry;  the  spread  of  the  Gospel  by 
Foreign,  Domestic,  and  State  Missionary  operations;  by  the  cir- 
culation of  the  sacred  scriptures;  and  by  such  means  as  may  be 
devised  from  time  to  time,  for  the  promotion  of  the  interests  of 
Education,  Publication  and  the  Sunday  School  system, — to  bring 
the  Baptist  Churches  in  this  State  into  closer  union, — to  harmon- 
ize their  views  and  feelings  in  things  spiritual,  by  conferring 
together  on  all  matters  of  interest  respecting  the  Kingdom  of 
God, — and  in  general  to  direct  and  concentrate  their  efforts  in 
such  measures  as  may,  in  their  opinion,  tend  to  promote  the  glory 
of  God  and  the  spread  of  evangelical  knowledge  in  the  earth. 
The  Convention,  though  not  unwilling  to  give  advice  in  cases  of 
difficulty,  yet  will  claim  to  itself  no  power  to  lord  it  over  God's 
heritage,  believing  that  the  right  of  government,  under  Christ, 
is  vested  in  the  Churches  themselves. 

ARTICLE  III. 

The  Convention  shall  consist  of  Delegates  from  the  several 
Baptist  Associations  in  this  State  who  may  approve  of  the  mea- 
sures here  adopted;  and  of  Representatives  from  other  religious 
bodies  of  the  Baptist  connexion,  concerned  in  tho  promotion  of 
the  same  objects  with  the  Convention;  the  number  of  Delegates 
and  Representatives  bearing  always  a  just  proportion  to  the 
number  of  their  constituents.    The  attending  Delegates  shall  be 


26 


CONSTITUTION. 


a  quorum  to  do  business.  The  appointment  of  these  Delegates 
shall  be  made  annually  or  biennially,  as  the  Convention  shall  de- 
termine to  hold  its  meeting;  and  a  certificate  of  their  appoint- 
ment shall  be  exhibited  to  the  Convention.  The  members  of  the 
Board  of  Agents  shall  be  ex-officio  members  of  the  new  Conven- 
tion. 

ARTICLE  IV. 

The  Convention  shall  have  a  President,  "Vice-President,  Secre- 
tary and  Treasurer.  It  shall  also  have  a  Board  of  Agents  for 
the  transaction  of  business  during  its  recess,  consisting  of  eight 
members — the  Treasurer  ex-officio  being  one  of  them — any  three 
of  whom  duly  convened,  shall  be  a  quorum.  The  duties  sever- 
ally assigned  to  the  officers  of  similar  institutions  shall  devolve 
on  those  of  this  body,  according  to  their  rank  and  character  in 
the  Convention  and  in  the  Board.  The  Board,  as  Agents,  shall 
be  adequate  to  the  performance  of  all  necessary  business  which 
may  occur  during  the  recess  of  the  Convention.  Both  Officers 
and  Agents  shall  hold  their  station — unless  forfeited  by  unright- 
eous conduct — till  a  new  election.  The  Board  shall  have  the 
powei  to  fill  vacancies  in  their  own  body. 

ARTICLE  V. 

The  support  of  an  Institution  of  learning  in  this  State  shall  be 
considered  as  a  primary  object.  One  of  the  designs  of  this  In- 
stitution is  to  assist  those  who,  in  the  judgment  of  their  churches, 
are  called  to  preach  the  Gospel,  that  they  may  "  study  to  show 
themselves  workmen  approved  unto  God,  that  need  not.  to  be 
ashamed,  rightly  dividing  the  word  of  truth."  Those  of  this 
character  who  need  pecuniary  aid  may  receive  it,  at  the  discre- 
tion of  the  Convention,  from  funds  appropriated  to  this  object. 
The  government  of  this  Institution  shall  be  committed  to  a  Board 
of  Trustees  to  be  elected  by  the  Convention  at  the  end  of  every 
fourth  year. 

ARTICLE  VI. 

Ministers  of  the  Gospel  in  any  of  our  Churches  needing  aid  in 
the  more  necessary  part  of  learning,  and  unable  to  attend  at  the 
Institution,  may  be  furnished  with  a  supply  of  the  most  useful 
books,  from  the  general  fund  for  education  purposes. 

ARTICLE  VII. 

Although  contributions  in  money  shall  not  be  considered  re- 
quisite to  entitle  to  a  representation  in  the  Convention,  yet  this 
body  will  receive  such  contributions  from  any  of  its  constituent 
bodies  that  may  wish  to  aid  in  the  support  of  missionary  service 
among  the  destitute,  either  at  home  or  abroad;  of  the  education 
of  pious  young  men  who  may  be  approved  by  the  Churches  to 
which  they  belong,  as  called  of  God  to  preach  the  Gospel;  or 
any  other  scheme  of  benevolence  tending  to  the  increase  of  evan- 
gelical and  useful  knowledge,  or  of  vital,  practical  religion. 


CONSTITUTION. 


21 


And  the  right  of  conducting'  the  business  of  the  fund  will  be  con- 
sidered as  vested  exclusively  in  the  representatives  of  bodies 
which  do  regularly  contribute.  In  the  election  of  the  Board  of 
Trustees  of  Furman  University,  the  vote  shall  be  cast  only  by 
the  representatives  of  the  larger  bodies,  viz:  Associations — 
which  enter  into  the  constituency  of  the  Convention.  The  extent 
of  this  right  on  the  part  of  each  Association,  shall  be  measured 
by  the  amount  it  may  have  contributed  to  the  vested  funds  of  the 
Convention,  whether  this  contribution  shall  have  been  made  di- 
rectly by  the  donation  of  Churches  or  of  individuals  within  its 
limits;  and  the  contribution  of  each  sum  of  one  thousand  dollars 
shall  give  the  contributing  body  the  right  to  cast  one  vote.  All 
moneys  specially  appropriated  shall  be  sacredly  applied  to  the 
object  designated;  but  where  any  contributions  or  bequests  are 
made  without  any  specific  designation,  discretion  in  their  applica- 
tion shall  be  exercised  by  the  Convention  or  its  Board  of  Agents. 

ARTICLE  VIII. 

The  Treasurer  shall  take  charge  of  all  moneys  and  specialities 
belonging  to  the  Convention,  and  keep  separate  accounts  of  the 
amounts  contributed  for  different  objects,  and  render  regular  ac- 
counts of  them  to  the  Convention  at  its  stated  meetings,  and, 
also,  to  the  Board,  when  called  upon  to  do  so.  He  shall  be  elec- 
ted by  the  Convention  at  its  stated  meeting,  and  shall  hold  his 
office  until  the  last  day  of  the  next  meeting,  and  until  another 
shall  be  elected  and  give  bond  and  enter  upon  the  duties  of  his 
office.  For  the  faithful  discharge  of  his  trust  he  shall  give  bond 
and  security  to  the  Convention,  in  such  sum  of  money  as  they 
shall  from  time  to  time  direct.  He  shall  pay  no  money  out  of  the 
funds  but  by  the  order  of  the  Convention  or  Board,  signed  by 
the  presiding  officer.  And  should  the  said  office  become  vacant 
by  death,  resignation  or  removal,  the  said  vacancy  shall  be  filled 
by  an  election  by  the  Board  of  Agents,  and  the  person  so  elected 
by  the  Board  shall  hold  his  office  until  the  next  stated  meeting  of 
the  Convention,  and  until  another  shall  be  elected,  give  bond  and 
security,  and  enter  upon  the  duties  of  his  office.  And  the  Trea- 
surer so  elected  shall  give  bond,  and  do  all  the  duties  required, 
and  in  the  same  manner  as  if  elected  by  the  Convention. 

ARTICLE  IX. 

The  Convention  may  use  its  discretion  in  having  either  an  an- 
nual or  biennial  meeting.  But  in  cases  of  important  concern, 
and  especially  when  the  arrangement  for  a  biennial  session  has 
been  made,  the  President  may,  at  the  instance  of  the  Board,  call 
an  earlier  meeting. 

ARTICLE  X. 

Any  alteration  which  experience  ma}'  prove  to  be  necessary, 
may  be  made  in  these  Rules,  by  the  concurring  vote  of  two-thirds 
of  the  members  present  at  an  annual  or  biennial  meeting. 


ABSTRACT  OF  MINUTES 


OF  THE 

BOARD  OF  TRUSTEES  OF  FURMAN  UNIVERSITY. 


Greenville,  July  25,  1856. 

The  Board  met,  the  following  members  being  present:  I.  L, 
Brookes,  J.  E.  Kendrick,  T.  Curtis,  C.  J.  Elford,  R.  Furman,  T. 
P.  Lide,  J.  B.  O'Neall,  A.  J.  Lawton,  J.  A  Law  ton,  J.  J.  Brantly, 
Z.  Watkins,  A.  Eice,  J.  Culpeper,  H.  D.  Duncan,  J.  W.  Brooks, 
W.  P.  Hill,  H.  A.  Duncan,  I.  Nicholes,  T.  B.  Roberts,  J.  G.  Lan- 
drum,  B.  C.  Pressly,  E.  T.  Winkler,  P.  E.  Duncan,  J.  M.  Chiles. 
Prayer  by  Brother  Landrum. 

Dr.  Gauntt  submitted  his  resignation  as  Professor  of  Chemistry. 

Passed  resolutions  expressive  of  the  sense  of  the  Board  in  re- 
gard to  the  loss  sustained  by  the  death  of  Bro.  H.  J.  Dean. 

Filled  the  vacancy  thus  occasioned  by  the  election  of  the  Eev. 
Dr.  Manly. 

Resolved,  That  under  the  peculiar  circumstances  of  the  case,  Mr.  R.  Bryan, 
of  Edgefield,  be  released  from  the  bond  given  by  him  to  the  Agent  of  the 
University. 

Requested  Prof.  Boyce  to  deliver  his  inaugural  on  Wednesday 
evening. 

The  Eeports  of  the  Faculty,  of  the  Agent  of  the  University, 
and  of  the  Executive  Committee  of  the  Greenville  Baptist  Fe- 
male College,  were  presented,  and  referred  to  several  Committees. 

The  Executive  Committee  of  Furman  University  reported. 

Eeferred  the  account  of  Mr.  Jones,  Architect,  to  the  Executive 
Committee. 

The  Treasurer's  Eeport  was  presented,  and  referred  to  its  ap- 
propriate Committee. 

Appointed  P.  E.  Duncan,  T.  B.  Roberts'  and  C.  J.  Elford  a 
Committee  to  ponfer  with  the  students  of  the  University  in  re- 
gard to  the  erection  of  a  monument  to  Prof.  Mims. 

Resolved,  That  the  sons  of  Prof.  Mims  have  the  privilege  of  passing  through 
the  University  free  of  tuition  charge. 

Instructed  the  Treasurer  to  make  a  full  investigation  of  our 
financial  affairs,  and  to  report  thereon  at  our  next  meeting,  and 
at  each  annual  meeting. 

Resolved,  That  the  Treasurer's  bond  hereafter  be  executed  with  security  to 
the  amount  of  $20,000. 

C.  J.  Elford  tendered  his  resignation  as  Treasurer,  whereupon 
C.  H.  Judson  was  unanimously  elected  to  that  office. 

Appointed  P.  E.  Duncan,  T.  B.  Roberts,  and  C.  J.  Elford  a  com- 
mittee to  obtain  a  lot  not  exceeding  half  an  acre  for  the  burial 
purposes  of  Furman  University. 


MINUTES  OF  FURMAN  UNIVERSITY. 


29 


E.  T.  Winkler  was  unanimously  elected  Adjunct  Professor  of 
Theology  and  of  Ancient  Languages. 

Authorized  the  Executive  Committee  of  the  Greenville  Baptist 
Female  College  to  appropriate  from  the  funds  of  that  Seminary, 
an  amount  not  exceeding  $250,  for  the  purchase  of  apparatus. 

Appointed  Dr.  Paslay  to  act  as  Collecting  Agent  for  the  Uni- 
versity. 

Resolved,  That  the  Agent  be  instructed  forthwith  to  make  arrangements  to- 
wards completing  the  $50,000  endowment. 

Resolved,  That  the  Treasurer  and  Agent  of  the  Board  be  instructed  to  use  all 
diligence  to  collect  all  bonds  which  are  due  to  the  Board.  That  the  Agent  be 
also  instructed  to  represent  the  necessities  of  the  Board  to  those  persons  who 
have  given  bonds  upon  the  understanding  that  the  principal  thereof  should 
not  be  demanded,  and  that  he  ask  such  obligors  to  pay  said  bonds  if  conveni- 
ent to  them. 

J.  Culpeper  tendered  his  resignation  as  a  member  of  the  Board. 
Whereupon  a  vote  of  thanks  was  passed  for  his  services,  and  J. 
O.  B.  Dargan  was  elected  to  supply  his  place. 

Appointed  B.  C.  Pressly,  J.  A.  Lawton,  J.  J.  Brantly,  A.  J. 
Lawton  and  T.  P.  Lide  a  Board  of  Visitors  to  attend  the  exami- 
nation in  Furman  University. 

Appointed  I.  L.  Brookes,  R.  Furman,  P.  E.  Duncan,  A.  Pice,  J. 
G.  Landrum,  and  T.  B.  Roberts  a  Board  of  Visitors  to  attend  the 
examination  in  the  Greenville  Baptist  Female  College. 

Appointed  P.  E.  Duncan  and  C.  J.  Elford  a  Committee  to  ob- 
tain the  Treasurer's  bond. 

Appointed  Dr.  Curtis,  Dr.  Manly,  B.  C.  Pressly,  E.  T.  Winkler, 
J.  G.  Landrum  and  Dr.  Paslay  to  represent  this  Board  at  the 
Theological  Convention  in  Louisville. 

R.  Furman  tendered  his  resignation  as  a  member  of  the  Exe- 
cutive Committee  of  the  Female  College,  and  H.  A.  Duncan  was 
appointed  to  fill  his  place. 

Authorized  the  Executive  Committee  of  the  Female  College  to 
take  up  subscriptions  for  its  benefit  on  the  scholarship  plan,  to 
apply  only  to  $500  subscriptions. 

Appointed  Mr.  T.  E.  Hart  Adjunct  Professor  of  Mathematics, 
with  the  understanding  that  the  duties  of  the  School  of  Chemis- 
try and  Natural  Philosophy  be  performed  by  the  Professor  and 
the  Adjunct  Professor  of  Mathematics. 

Passed  a  resolution  recommending  the  study  of  the  Modern 
Languages  to  the  students  of  Furman  University. 

Resolved,  That  the  next  commencement  be  on  Thursday  before  the  4th  Lord's 
day  in  July;  and  that  the  commencement  in  the  Female  College  be  on  Friday.- 

Appointed  B.  C.  Pressly,  T.  B.  Roberts,  C.  J.  Elford,  R.  G.  Ed- 
wards, and  E.  T.  Winkler  a  Committee  to  request  a  copy  of  Prof. 
Boyce's  inaugural  for  publication. 

Adjourned  to  meet  at  Greenville  on  Wednesday  evening  before 
the  4th  Lord's  day  in  July  next,  at  8-J  o'clock. 

R.  Furman,  Secretary. 


OF 

BAPTIST  MINISTERS  IN  SOUTH-CAROLINA. 

WITH  THEIR  POST  OFFICES. 


X  AMES. 

Adair,  John  (l.*) 
Allen,  Joel 
Anderson,  C.  A.  T. 
Ashburn,  J.  M. 
Ashley,  W. 
Acker,  A. 
Ariail,  J. 
Ayres,  Wra. 
Babb,  R.  F. 
Backus,  J.  A. 
Ballard,  W.  L. 
Barnett,  M.  C. 
Bartlett,  H.  T. 
Barton,  H.  M. 
Bateman,  J.  J. 
Baxley,  Wm.  C. 
Bealer,  G.  B. 
Beattie,  W.  Q. 
Beck.  W. 
Bell,  G. 
Bell,  Joel 
Beverly,  W.  D. 
Blackman,  W. 
Bodie,  D. 
Blythe,  D. 
Boyce,  Prof.  J.  P. 
Boyd,  W  B. 
Bradford,  R. 
Brantly,  J.  J. 
Breaker,  0.  M. 
Breaker,  D.  M. 
Breaker,  J.  M.  C. 
Brooker,  John 
Brooker,  W. 
Brooks,  G.  W. 
Brookes.  I.  L. 
Broom,  J. 
Branson,  D.  "D. 


POST  OFFICES. 

West  Union, 
Marion  C.  H. 
Greenville  C.  H. 
Robertville, 
Craytonville, 
Calhoun, 
Pickensville, 
Marion  C.  H. 
Calhoun  P.  0., 
Mars  Bluff, 
Greenville  C.  H. 
Spartanburg,  C.H 
Lotts' 
Fairplay, 
Society*Hill. 
Barnwell  C.  H. 
Darlington  C.  H. 
Bennettsville, 
Darlington  C.  H. 
Lotts' 

Millersville, 

Gadsden, 

Hickory  Head, 

Red  Hill, 

South  Saluda, 

Greenville, 

Simpson's  Mills, 

Silverton, 

Newberry  C.  H. 

Charleston, 

Monk's  Corner, 

Beaufort, 

Blackville, 

Bull  Swamp, 

Greenville, 

Hamburg, 

Silverton, 

Duntonville, 


NAMES. 

Bruce,  E  .D. 
Burn,  J.  W. 
Burriss,  B. 
Burriss,  J. 
Burroughs,  J.  H. 
Campbell,  T.  J. 
Cartledge,  A.  M. 
Carpenter,  F.  G. 
Carson,  W.  B. 
Cave,  B.  M. 
Chambers,  P. 
Chapman,  J. 
Chastain.  B.  E. 
Chiles,  J.  M. 
Chovin,  C.  E. 
Cohen,  A.  D. 
Coleman,  J.  D. 
Collins,  E. 
Copeland,  J.  T. 
Corley,  B.  F. 
Crane,  W. 
Culpeper,  J. 
Curtis,  Thos.  D.D. 
Curtis,  Wm. 
Uuttino,  D.  W. 
Cuthbert,  Lucius 
Dargan,  J.  0.  B. 
Davis,  C.  (l.) 
Davis,  C.  J. 
Dawson,  Thos. 
Dean,  C  P. 
Dean,  Jesse 
Dill,  A. 
Dozier,  A.  S. 
Drummond,  S. 
Duncan,  H.  D. 
Duncan,  H.  A. 
Dunton,  Henry 


POST  OFFICES. 

Townville, 
Society  Hill, 
Anderson  C.  H. 

Pickens  C.  H. 
Limestone  Spr'gs, 
Winnsboro, 
Piercetown, 
Gillisonville, 
Barnwell  C.  H. 
Horse  Shoe, 
Pickens  C.  H. 

Greenwood, 
Robertville, 
St.  Helenaville, 
Marion  C.  H. 
West  Union, 
Flat  Rock, 
Ninety-Six, 
Milford, 
Hartsville, 
Limestone  Spr'gs, 

Georgetown, 

Aiken, 

Darlington, 

Pagesville, 

Walterboro, 

Blackville, 

Calhoun, 

Greenville, 

Earlesville, 

Mount  Willing, 

Woodruff's 

Barnwell  C.  H. 

Greenville, 

Merritt's  Bridge, 


Licentiate 


LIST  OF  MINISTERS. 


31 


XAME3. 

Durham.  A.  K. 
Dupre.  L. 
Earle.  T.  J. 
Edwards,  Prof.  P.  C 
Edwards.  R.  J. 
Eking,  W.  B. 
Ezell.  J. 
Fail.  X. 
Felder,  C. 
Fenley.  L. 
Fewox.  J. 
Ferguson.  Benj. 
Fort,  A.  H. 
Fox.  Win. 
Frean,  Thos. 
Fuller.  R  W. 
Furman,  Prof.  J.  C. 
Fur  man  ?  R. 
Furman  Samuel 
Furze.  J.  J. 
Gains.  X. 
Gambrell,  J.  M. 
Garrisson.  J.  E.  (l.) 
Getzen,  I.  P. 
Gibson.  Samuel 
Gilbert.  J. 
Gibbs.  J.  (l.) 
Gordon,  Wm.  (l.) 
Goss.  J.  H. 
Graham,  X. 
Green,  J.  C. 
Grimes.  G.  C. 
Grimes.  James 
Gwin.  W.  W. 
Gwin.  T.  D. 
Havs!  B. 
Hayes,  D. 
Head.  E. 
Hicks.  E. 
Hicks.  G.  W.  (l.) 
Higgins,  J.  B. 
Higsins,  W. 
Hill.  J.  A. 
Hill.  J.  W. 
Hill.  W.  P. 
Hill.  J.  H. 
Hinton.  L.  C. 
Hinton,  Jame3 
Hitt.  W. 
Holder.  B. 
Holland,  E.  D.  (l.) 
Hoover,  Jno.  M. 
Horn.  A. 
Hudson,  D. 
Huifman,  J.  C. 
Hunnicutt.  J.  R. 
Hiers.  Michael 
Isbell.  Samuel 
Jackson.  B.  A. 
Jeter,  F.  C. 
Jeter.  J.  T. 
Johnson,  J. 


POST  OFFICES. 

Laurens  C.  H. 

Darlington, 

Pendleton, 

Greenville, 

Bull  Swamp, 

Level, 

Limestone  Spr'gs, 
Hickory  Head, 
Winnsboro. 
West  LTnion, 

St.  George, 

u    '  a 

Lexington  C.  H. 

Walterboro, 

Columbia, 

Beaufort. 

Greenville, 

Stateburg, 
Lawtonville, 
Line  Creek, 
Calhoun. 
Spring  Hill, 
Collins' 
Milford, 
Fountain  Inn, 
Fairforest. 
Union  C.  H. 

Sumter, 

Plea.sant  Grove, 
Laurens  C.  H. 
Storeville, 
Youngsville, 
Ridgeway. 
Tw-lve  Mile, 
Hickorv  Head, 
Tunnef  Hill, 
Lynch's  Creek. 
Greenville, 
Columbia, 

Catawba, 
St.  George, 
Greenwood, 
Walterboro, 
Chesterville, 
St.  George, 
Spring  Grove, 
Twelve  Mile, 
"West  Union. 
Buford's  Bridge, 
Lott's 

Pickens  C.  H. 
St.  Matthew's. 
Pickens  C.  H.' 
Walker's 
Fair  Play, 

Beaver  Dam. 

Duck  Branch, 


(l.) 


XAME3. 

Johnson,  J.  K- 
Johnson.  W.  Jr. 
Johnson,  W.  B.  D.D 
Johnson,  W.  S. 

Johnson,  W.  R. 

Johnson,  A.  T. 

Jones,  J.  C. 

Jones,  W.  T. 

Kay.  James, 

Kendrick,  J.  R. 

Kendrick,  J.  G. 

Kennedy,  A.  L. 

Kennemur, 

Kin-.  R. 

Kitchens.  W.  D 

Knight.  S. 

Lagroon,  J. 

Landrum.  J.  G. 

Lankford,  W. 

Lanneau.  C.  H. 
I  Lawton.  Joseph  J. 
j  Lawton,  J.  A. 

Lawton,  J.  S.  (l.) 

Lawton.  W.  A. 
|  Leavell.  J.  (l.) 
I  Lecrov.  H. 
j  Lee.  T. 
{ Linder.  J.  S. 
:  Lindsav.  E. 
|  Littlejohn,  F.  W. 
i  Lone,  J.  (l.) 

Long.  W  B.  (L.) 

Luther,  J.  H. 

Looper.  T. 

Lynes,  Samuel 

Lvnes.  G. 

McGuffin.  A.  W. 

Mahonev.  H.  W. 

Manly,  B.  D.D. 

Manly.  Charles  (l.) 
;  Martin.  W,  J. 

Martin.  W.  P. 
I  Mason.  T. 

Masters,  G.  W. 

Matthews.  T.  D. 

Matthis.  J. 

Mauldin.  B.  F. 

Mellichamp.  T.  W. 

Mendenhall,  J.  K. 

Moodv,  W.  R.  (l  ) 

Mitchell.  J. 

Morris.  J. 

Morris,  T. 

Morton.  W-  M. 

Motes.  J. 

Mullanax.  M. 

Murray,  J.  S. 

Xance,  J.  C. 

Xapier.  R. 

Xewland.  J. 

Xichols.  Isaac 

Xix.  J. 


POST  OFFICES. 

Williston, 

Anderson  C.  H. 
Speedwell, 
Flat  Rock, 
Mount  Zion, 
Rogersvilie, 
Mount  Croghan, 
Due  West  Corner, 
Charleston, 
Pinckneyville, 
Cairo, 

Pickens  C.  H. 

Winsboro, 

Calhoun, 

Scuffletown, 

Lotts7 

Fort  Prince, 
Gowensville, 
Greenville, 
Allendale, 

Lawtonville, 

Anderson  C.  H. 
Fruit  Hill, 
Gold  Mine, 
Walker's. 
Holland, 

Hurricane  Shoals. 
Mount  Willing. 
Greenville  C.  H. 
Pendleton, 
Dacusville, 
Monk's  Corner, 

West  Union, 

Friendship, 

Charleston, 

Marion, 

Gentsville, 

Camden. 

Anderson, 

Honey  Lane, 

Mollohon, 

Williamston, 

Beech  Island, 

Camden. 

Greenville, 

Darlington, 

Hamburg, 

Bachelor's  Retr't, 

Mountville, 

Pinckneyville, 

Anderson, 

Wellsville, 

Mars  Bluft; 

Carmel  Hill, 

Privateer, 

Steep  Bottom, 


32 


LIST  OF  MINISTERS. 


NAMES. 

Norman,  J.  L. 
Norris,  A.  P. 
Odum,  J. 
Owen,  J. 
Owens,  W.  C. 
O wings,  M.  C. 
Paslay,  H.  W. 
Pearce,  T.  J. 
Peterson,  J.  F. 
Philips,  J. 
Phelps,  J.  C. 
Pinson,  J.  W. 
Perry,  E.  (l.) 
Perry,  B.  F.  D. 
Porter,  C.  M. 
Powell,  S. 
Ray,  J.  J. 
Ray,  Thomas 
Raymond,  C.  A. 
Reynolds,  J.  L.  D.. 
Rice,  A. 
Rice,  W.  D. 
Richards,  Wm. 
Robertson,  T. 
Roper,  C. 
Rogers,  J.  E.  (l.) 
Rogers,  A.  N. 
Rollings,  G; 
Rollings,  L.  P. 
Rollings,  J.  B: 
Rollings,  J.  L. 
Roper,  T.  L. 
Ross,  John 
Royall,  William 
Ritcher,  S. 
Sams,  M.  W. 
Sanders,  W.  T. 
Sawyer,  S. 
Scruggs,  D. 
Sharp,  M.  J. 
Simmons,  D. 
Singleton,  W.  B. 
Spruell,  S. 
Stacey,  C. 


POST  OFFICES. 

Cross  Keys, 

Graniteville, 

Brightsville. 

Pickens  C.  H. 

Yorkville, 

Logansville, 

Greenville, 

Laurens  C.  H. 

Richardson, 

Pleasant  View, 

Society  Hill, 

Mountville, 

Grahamville, 

Beaufort, 

Ridgewood, 

Traveller's  Rest, 

Blackville, 

Cross  Keys, 

Edgefield  C.  H. 

Columbia, 

Storeville, 

Sumter  C.  H. 

Savannah,  Geo. 

Scuffletown, 

Twelve  Mile, 

Camden, 

Pleasant  View, 

if  a 

Kingstree, 

Murray's  Ferry, 

North  Saluda, 

Columbia, 

Greenville, 

Walterboro, 

Greenville, 

Barnwell  C.  H. 

Sawyersville, 

Cowpens, 

Columbia, 

Townville, 

Fowler's  Creek, 

Simpson's  Mills, 

Jordan's 


NAMES. 

Staley,  Casper 
Stone,  M.  F. 
Suares,  M.  R. 
Sullivan,  N. 
Sweat,  o.  T. 
Swindall,  D.  D. 
Thomas,  J.  A.  W. 
Timmons,  E.  B. 
Timmons,  J,  M. 
Trapp,  John 
Turner.  R. 
Tustin,' J.  P. 
Tyler  J. 
Vandiver,  H. 
Vann,  R.  R. 
Vaughu,  J.  C. 
Vaughn,  K. 
Vernon,  J.  T.  W. 
Walkers,  George 
Walker,  N.  W. 
Watkins,  W. 
Watkins,  Z. 
West,  John 
Whatly,  E.  L. 
Whilden,  R.  F. 
Wilbanks,  S. 
Willkins,  S.  B. 
Williams,  Arthur 
Williams,  J.  G.  _ 
Williams,  G.  W.  M. 
Wilson,  J.  J. 
Wilson,  James 
Winkler,  E.  T. 
Woodruff,  R. 
Woodward,  S.  C. 
Woodward,  J.  A. 
Woodward,  — 
Youman's  J.  N. 
Young,  T. 
Young,  V. 
Zealy,  John  T. 
Zeigler,  L.  G. 
Zeigler,  Lewis 
Zeigler,  J.  A. 


POST  OFFICES. 

Kitchen's  " 
Halseyville ; 
Barnwell  C.  H. 
Walhalla, 
Steep  Bottom, 
Greenville  C  H. 
Bennettsville, 
Effingham, 
Effingham, 
Phoenix, 

Spartanburg  C.  H. 
Charleston, 
Graham's, 
Silver  Glade, 
Monticello, 
Cross  Roads, 
Union  C.  H. 
Rogersville, 
Walker's, 
u 

Jordan's  Mills, 
Coleman's  XRoa's 
Whitstown, 
Edgefield  C.  H. 
Darlington, 
Silver  Glade, 
Leavenworth, 
Donald's, 
Blue  House, 
Duck  Branch, 
Silver  Glade, 
Piercetown, 
Charleston, 
Woodruff's, 
Wrilliston, 
« 

Little  P 
Gillison 
Abbevill 
Mount  Hi 
Columbia, 
Bull  Swamp, 
Tyler's 

Kitchen's  Mills, 


Ecu 

RolL 

RolliiJ 

Roper 

Ross 


