DOCUMENT_ID: centralafricacon00guin
TITLE (as printed): Central Africa and the Congo: An Address by Mrs. H. Grattan Guinness, of London, at the First Baptist Church, Chicago, Ill.
AUTHOR: Mrs. H. Grattan Guinness (Fanny E. Guinness)
DATE: 1884
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL: https://archive.org/details/centralafricacon00guin
EDITION: Reprinted from The Standard, Chicago, 1884.
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: Internet Archive OCR (djvu), fetched verbatim via curl, uncorrected
NOTE: Short reprinted address on the Institute's Congo mission (Livingstone Inland Mission); used for background on the Institute's sending to Central Africa.
No page markers ([[p. N]]) were inserted: the source djvu OCR text carries no machine-readable
page-break characters. Printed page numbers are visible as isolated numerals in the running
OCR text at page boundaries (running heads) and are cited in quote records as they appear nearby.
================================================================================
a | j { 
7 ¢ 


_ 


A 


FA 


ye : od ; 


Central Af 


ca and the Con 


AN ADDRESS BY 


MRS. H. GRATTAN GUINNESS, |< 


OF LONDON, 


At the First Baptist Church, Chicago, IIL, et. 


: 


sth, 4884, 


{Reprinted from THE STANDARD, Chicago. ] 


The address having been delivered on the Lord’s day in the place of the usuai setmor, Re Dr.’ 


P. 8. HENSON, the pastor, made the following introduction: 


Dr. Henson’s Add'ess. 


Dr. Henson said, in introducing Mrs. 
Guinness, that the sermon which he had in- 
tended to preach this evening was, by God’s 
providence, postponed until next Sunday 
evening. Something better was in store for 
the audience to-night, and with exceeding 
personal pleasure, and sincerest gratitude to 
God, he welcomed to this Baptist church 
Mrs. Henry Grattan Guinness, of London, 
whose labors of love for the needy were 
known all over the world, and whose name 
is a household word in Christian families. 
God has laid upon her heart and upon her 
husband’s, the ‘‘dark continent,’? of which 


she will speak to-night. She and her hus-: 


band have, in connection with other Chris- 
tian friends in England, sustained in Africa 
a great missionary work for several years 
past, but they cannot live forever to carry it 
on, and so desiring that there shall be an as- 
surance of its perpetuity, they have proposed 
tocommit it to the hands of the American 
Baptist Missionary Union, and this society, 
with great readiness and enthusiasm, have 
accepted the sacred trust, and propose to 
prosecute, with all the resources God may 
MRS, 

My Dear CuristraAn FRIENDS: 
To quicken your zeal, I want to bring 
before you the condition of one portion of 
the world, which, perhaps, more than any 
other, demands in our day the gospel of sal- 
vation. Central Africa is in some senses a 
new world. The continent of Africa, in its 
entirety, was discovered four hundred years 
ago, and we have long been familiar with its 
general outline. Egypt, as you are aware, 
has a history which runs back farther than 
that of any other country, but, with the ex- 
ception of the northern coast of Africa, the 
site of Carthage, Cape Colony and a few 
other parts, the great interior of the continent 
has been a comparatively unknown region. 
Africa is 5,000 miles long and about 4,600 
miles broad in its widest part. It is an enor- 
mous world in itself; and up to this nineteenth 
century ithas been to all intents and pur- 
poses an unknown world. Few people realize 
the extent of the country. The discovery of 
Central Africa is almost as great an event in 
the history of the human race as was the dis- 
covery which Columbus made of these Amer- 
ican continents in the fifteenth century. And 
such is the moral condition of Africa that it 


eine shorty this hopeful and most important 
work. 

We owe to Africa a great debt, and it 
seemed to be proper that this’ work should be 
done by America. There ar¢ peculiar ties, 
peculiar obligations, binding America to Af- 
rica. A part of the debt we paid in the 
dreadful fratricidal war that wrung this land 
and drenched it in blood; now God seems to 
call for further payment of grateful, loving, 
honest hearts. If any people in the world 
should be greatly interested in giving the 
gospel to the dark continent, it should be the 
people who have held the sons of that same 
continent so long in bondage. Their debt- 
ors we are; and as God may give us grace 
and strength we propose, as best we can, to 
make payment for the past by sending them 
heaven’s best gifts. I thank God that this 
work has been committed to us. I trust that 
with one heart, and with our utmost devotion 
of substance and service we shall prosecute 
it. I do not doubt our enthusiasm in its 
prosecution will be stirred by what we shall 
hear to-night from Mrs. Guinness, who, un- 
der God, was the means of opening up this 
dark continent to Christian evangelism. I in- 
troduce to you Mrs. Guinness. 


—EE < © --- @ipe 


GUINNESS’ ADDRESS. 


is deserving the name the “lost continent,’’ 
the ‘‘ dark continent.’’ 

In the Providence of God J have no doubt 
that one reason why Africa has remained so 
long unexplored has been because it was ne- 
cessary that its: feeble races should be con- 
cealed. until the consciences of the stronger 
nations should be sufficiently developed, en- 
lightened and restrained by Christian princi- 
ple to do away with the crime of slavery. 
Unless this had been the case, the whole in- 


iterior of Africa might have been desolated 


by the cruel and unscrupulous slave-trader. 
Only that after all the nations of Europe and 
your own great country here had put away 
slavery was this great world opened up to 
our knowledge. ‘There is also a_ physical 
reason why Africa has not been earlier 
known and explored. The African continent 


is entirely unlike any other in its physical 


conformation. I suppose you remember the 
maxim that the wealth and civilization of a 
continent are always in proportion to the 
length of its coast-line, as compared with its 
area. If you glance at the map of Africa you 
see at once that its coast-line is the shortest 
by far of- any continent on the globe. Its 


—O 


~. 
oe 


M 


a eae 
Ot 


eSMeA NSckceeDER AEE 


“the ocean. ‘Imagine what America would be 
if the Mississippi were barred with cataracts 


; 4 
% 


‘ miles into the Ghterior on both sides of 


 sgdare mileage pee ee r 
, orth America, and yet its ¢ 
fai csinaller. Tt: has other & 
stu 


( 


their villages as much as possible. 
_ alike of roads and of waterways, it is no 
great wonder that Central Africa has not 


inlets - nor aries. 
broken line, so that you will searcely find a 
good harbor all around its coast. 

And there is still another reason. Central 
Africa consists mainly of an elevated table 
land from 1,000 to 2,000 feet above the level 
of the fea. It is Ouly*towards the coast that 
the surface shelves,down tothe ocean. ~ It is 
avell compared in form‘ te a saucer turned 
upside down on a table. The center presents 


a plateau, surrounded by & ridge, then the 


edges of the saucer slope down to the table. 
From the shore line to about two hundred 


Africa, the land rises from the low, maritime 
coast in rocky ridges rising higher and 
higher, until they reach a height of some 
2,000 feet, andthen from'that point the high 
levelis maintained right across the conti- 
vient. It follows that none of the rivers of 
Africa {except the. Nile) are navigable from 
their mouths; nome \can be sailed up from 


‘and rapids. If there were not a single navi- 
gable watercourse in the whole continent, 
‘the colonization of these United States, and 
of Canada, would not have proceeded as 
‘they have done, but would have been very 
long delayed. With the exception of the 
Nile, there is no African river navigable far 
from its mouth. + 
You are aware that when a continent 
is first opened up, there are no roads, and the 
‘forest covers the country, and in Africa the 


grass grows to a great height, and is extra-| 


ordinarily strong, triangular, and possessed 
of sharp edges, so that it is difficult to cut 


- one’s way through. The natives are so dis* 


trustful of their neighbors that they never 
clear the ground to make roads, but block 
Destitute 


been opened before. This new world never 
would have been civilized unless waterways 
into the interior had been discovered. 

I want you to obtain an idea of the Congo. 
From the north and from the south great 
tributaries pour into the warm stream. One, 
so large at its mouth that it is two miles 
wide, another carrying such a volume of 
water that at thirty miles from its mouth its 
brown waters do not mingle withthe Congo. 
One tributary is 1,500 miles long, and an- 
other coming from the north is suppesed to 
connect with the Nile and so make a water- 
way across the continent. 

The river turned southward, and where 
it traversed the central range of mountains, 
contracted to a narrow gorge and began to 
descend in cataracts towards the ocean; but 
just below this point it enlarges to a little lake 
called Stanley Pool, seventy miles around—a 
lake which is very important because it’ is 
just below this point that the cataracts begin. 
It is 300 miles from the Atlantic Ocean to 
Stanley Pool. There are about 200 miles 
of cataracts and then a thousand miles of 
navigable water-way, then a short portage 
and 1,500 miles more of navigable water. 


rv 
ay 


uch | that the Congo is _ 


Pe. ye: 
Say 
oy ge ad 


tse-Kiang is to China, the Ganges to India 
ie he Coden o Central Africa. Itisa 
sreat highway,a great commercial water-way 
which is to open up to civilization that great 
continent. Observe, the mouth is within 
‘three week’s sail of New York, or a fort- 
night’s sail of London. Instead of going a 
tedious journey around the Mediterranean 
and then walking 800 miles to reach Central 
Africa, as some missionaries have done, here- 
after travelers can take this water system 
and go to Central Africa in three weeks when 
the railroad shall be built across the ca aract 
region. When that is done, we shall have to 
rednee the cost of travel from Southern 
Egypt and the Soudan to the Congo. 

Stanley took 999 days to travel 7,000 miles; 
and now never forget what [am going to tell 
you. During that journey of 999 days and 
over that long distance he never saw the face 
of a Christian, nor of a man who had hadthe 
opportunity to become a Christian. He saw 
millions of men, and expresses the belief that 
on the shores of the Congo alone there dwell 
fifty millions of human beings, and taking in 
his entire journey, he must have seen tribes 
which numbered in all something like 150,- 
000,000 persons. Among them all there was 
not one who had ever heard the name of 
Jesus, not one that had had the chance to 
learn the way to heaven. It is difficult to 
realize,thus to travel week after week, month 
after month, and year after year, and con- 
stantly to see new men, new tribes, new races, 
and in all that time see men who have never 
heard the name of Jesus, the only name given 
under heaven whereby we can be saved. 

African Missions, 

You may count upon your fingers the mis- 
sions in Central Africa. The Church Mis- 
sionary Society has one at Uganda, the Lon- 
don Missionary Society one on Lake 'Tangan- 
yika, the Presbyterians of Scotland two on 
Lake Nyassa, the American Board has com- 
menced work in Bihe, and our own Living- 
stone Inland Mission, and that of the English 
Baptists, are established on this great river 
Congo.. Thatis all! Thus you will see that 
Central Africa is a vast unevangelized world ; 
and I hope you will try to realize that it does 
not comprise one nation or one country. 
There are no less than 687 different lan- 
guages, all known and spoken oni that conti- 
nent; and yet I must mention another fact, 
es regards Central Africa, which is as en- 
couraging as the. other is discouraging. By 
the expression Central Africa I mean all 
south of Soudan and north of Zanzibar, and 
extending from ocean to ocean. In all that 
great region, while there are so many differ- 
ent languages spoken, all these languages be- 
long to one class or family. They are not Ne- 
gro, nor Berber, nor Coptic, nor Hottentot; 
but as a family of languages they are all cog- 
nate, just as we have the Latin languages of 
Europe, the Spanish, Portuguese, French 
and Italian. So all these Central African lan- 
guages are related; many words used at Zan- 
zibar are also in use at the mouth of the 


Congo. We have to learn languages sepa- 
rately. When Stanley came across Afr ca 


not one of these languages had been mas- 
tered. The Zulu languages have been learned 


pose that they are negroes; all Africa is no? | 


peopled by negroes. There is an encrmous 
variety of races. But this great district, wa- 
tered and drained by the Congo, is peopled 
by a brown rather than a black people. 
They are a dark, rich, glowing brown color, 
and not negroes in the sense of having re- 
ceding foreheads, curly hair, and flat noses. 
They are a finer race, with intelligent faces 
and good foreheads, and sometimes their 
hair is not at all woolly. We have had some 
eight or ten of these at our home in Eng- 
land, boys, and I never saw finer foreheads 
than were on the heads of those boys; I never 
saw boys better behaved. 


The Livingstone Inland Mission. 


After Mr. Stanley’s discovery was reported 
in England, in the autumn of 1877 » we set to 
work to see if we could do anything to send 
the gospel to the new world he had _ revealed. 
In the month of January, 1878, three months 
afterwards, we sent out two young men as 
pioneer missionaries. They and their suc- 
cessor had, as you may suppose, to encoun- 
ter extraordinary difficulties. The region 
was unhealthy; the laborers died one after 
another; for they had no proper resources, 
no houses, no medicines; but they founded 
a station at the upper end of the navigable 
reach of the lower river, and afterwards one 
atthe mouth of the Congo. Since then over 
fifty missionaries have been sent out, and 
three stations have been established through 
the cataract region, one at Stanley Pool, and 
one on the upper river. In other words, 
these missionaries penetrated 400 miles into 
the interior and established themselves on 
the upper river. We sent a steamer out for 
navigation of the lower river, and another, 
in sections, to be put together on the upper 
river. That steamer is made with shallow 
draft, in order to navigate the waters of the 
upper river where sand-banks abound. 


What sort of people did they find? I 
may say in a word that they found a people 
living in the greatest ignorance, in spiritual, 
moral and social degradation almost inde- 
scribable, and holding superstitions that in- 
volved awful sacrifice of life. For instance, 
when a person dies the question is not, ‘Of 
what did he die?’ but ‘‘ Who killed him?”’ 
The fetich doctor is called and an inquiry 
made, and directly he or she is indicated 
(and, it is always the man or woman the 
king wants te put out of the way that is 
pitched upon as the culprit), the poor unfor- 
tunate individual is seized; the whole town 
goes into mad excitement; they make him 
drink poison, or take him to the river and 
drown him, or to the cross-roads and burn 
him. Again and again our brethren have 
come across the remains of human beings 
thus burnt, little heaps of ashes and bones 
lying by a stake, and have had the painful 
conviction that the victims had not deserved 
such a fate, any more than you or I do. 


' Hardly a week passes but in some of the vil- 


fages where they reside there is some scene 
like this. Our own dear Congo boys who 
spent a year or two with us in London, one 
day before they came over, went into the 


hoking) has sent for us, and we must 
‘ What does he want?’’ said the mis- 
‘“‘ He wants to cut off our heads.” 
ed, the missionary inquired “Why, 
ave you done?’’ ‘ Nothing at all,” 
said t&e boys, “but he wants us and we 
must gp directly.’’ So deeply is the habit of 


hesitatésm to go and be murdered if the local 
tyrant reqyires it. There was once a poor 


‘woman whd brought the missionary’s wife 


goat’s milk for a baby, day by day. She was 
paid in ‘‘cloth.”? At last the missionary’s 


.wife said: ‘‘It is not worth while to tear up” 
the cloth into small pieces; bring milk a> 


week and I will give you a long piece.’ But 
the woman, with earnest surprise, replied: 
** Why, before a week is part, Lobengula may 
want to kiJl me, and then I shall get no cloth 
at all!’ 

One of our missionaries, Mr. McCall, once 
was present at a great palaver among the 
Matabele. The king inquired for some man 
who was not present at his court. Those 
near him replied that they could not tell why 
he was absent. ‘The king turned round and 
said to his chief officer, ‘‘ Take soldiers and 
go and eat up his village.’? This dreadful 
expression means more than meets the ear! 
It means “‘ slaughter the men,burn the houses 
and bring the women, the children, and the 
cattle to_me.’”? The great monarch, M’ tesa, 
of Uganda, the most powerful ruler in Cen- 
tral. Africa, who has a large army and navy, 
sends out every month a general with troops 


to ravage a fresh district in this way and © 


bring the victims to him. The social condi- 
tion of these people is low and degraded in 
the extreme. Polygamy of course prevails, 
all labor is left to the women, though the 
men are clever as traders. Iam thankful to 
say that the gospel has proved itself ‘the 
power of God unto salvation” in not a few 
cases already. Mr. Guinness had the joy of 
baptizing in London the first fruits of Congo 
land, the two first converts, about two years 
ago. When we came back from the cere- 
mony we took the dear lads aside into our 
study to speak and pray with them, and 
afterwards we asked them to pray aloud. 
They did’ so, freely pouring out their hearts 
to God and asking him to help them keep 
the faith, and walk worthy of the profession 
they had made. It would have touched any 
heart to hear their prayers, eloquent and full 
of feeling, though as they spoke in their own 
language, we could not altogether follow. 
Butit filled our eyes with tears and our hearts 


with thankfulness to listen to their young. 


voices uplifted in earnest supplication. 
Yransfer of the Mission. 


Having had the reponsibility of conduct- 
ing it now for several years, having lost 
not less .than twelve precious lives in 
counection with it. on the Congo, and having 
expended on it more than a hundred thous- 
and dollars, we were led to feel. at last that 
it had outgrown our management, that the 
mission having attained the upper river, and 
having established itself at Stanley Pool, had 
only reached the point where its real. work 


missionary’s house, looking sad and grave! was to begin, and that it would demand in 


(they were thirteen or fourteen years of age), 


the future, far more than in the past, large 


obedie&ce implanted that no man or woman _ 


} 
| | 
aA ing ** We ha t to say good-bye to | resources, and .much consecration of time 
4 ee Sees ; ated the pe and talent When the steamer, the Henry 
‘sionary, ‘“‘what do you mean? Is it far| Reed, is put together there will be a thousan 
Sach ee going?” They replied. “ Kakump-|miles open on the main stream and five 
+ Med ce : . \ h ‘ . MS tec ee ee 


ek ¢ : % Te 
* ae 2 aan ae va} 
J ee 4 ¥ wt eS, ~ 
i ae ae Ce 


_— 


thousand on the tributary rivers. .-e felt 
that private individuals could never carry on 
this mission adequately, and that wei must 
seek stronger and more efficient management 
for it. While we were pondering its juture 
we received a note from Dr. Murdock, Sec- 
retary of the American Baptist Missionary 
Union, asking about another missiom in the 
north of Africa, saying that if we ¥ ve wil- 
ling to give it up his society woviu like to 
take it. I replied that we were not thinking 
of parting with it, but added: ‘‘If you are 
wanting a really important opening into 
eentral Africa, we are thinking of transfer- 
ging to abler hands our Congo mission, and 
should be quite willing to entertain the prop- 
esition of surrendering it to your board.”’ 
Further correspondence ensued; Dr. Mur- 
dock and Dr. Crane came over-to London to 
investigate the question, read our printed 
reports and the letters of the missionaries, 
and went thoroughly into the whole matter. 
They reported to your board, and last May, 
at Detroit, as you know, the American Bap- 
tist Missionary Union and its managers 
heartily accepted the responsibility of con- 
ducting this mission in the future. 

Our present visit to the United States is in 
connection with this business. We want to 
commend this mission to the prayers, the 
care, the earnest consecration and large lib- 
erality of American Christians, and especially 
of the Baptist churches. 

Shall I tell you how I feel about parting 
with it? Somewhat as loving parents feel in 
giving a dear daughter in marriage; sad, yet 
glad and thankful! You know that when you 
have brought up your daughters, you cannot 
keep them always with you! One day they 
must go from the parent roof-tree, and when 
that day comes it is always a day of mingled 
feelings. Weare heartily glad to hand this 
mission over to your care, for we believe that 
the American Baptist Missionary Union will 
prosecute it earnestly, prayerfully and wise- 
ly. We know the history of its grand Bur- 
man and Telugu missions, and believe that 
this new Congo mission will beas successfully 
managed as they have been. We give over 
freely the whole property of the tission, 
making the only condition that the Union 
shall pledge itself to carry it on vigorously 
and well, not to let it languish for want of 
adequate attention and support, until our 

Missionaries can shake hands with the labor- 
ers of the London Missionary Society on 
Lake Tanganyika, and until missionary sta- 
tions shall have been established across the 
entire continent. The Union will require the 
hearty co-operation of the churches to enable 
it to develop as it should be developed, the 
Livingstone Inland Mission. It ought to be 
a large mission. Instead of twenty-fivemen, 
the number now in the field, it ought to have 
one hundred on its staff. 

An Opportunity and an Obligation. 

Let me say, that I solemnly believe these 
discoveries of which I have been speaking, 
opening up a new world, have placed upon 
the church of Christ a new and solemn obli- 

ation. Africa has been known for four 
pandved years. Wehave believed the inte- 


——_— 


\ 
| 
¢ 


rior of the continent was desolate like Sa- 
hara. We now know it is nothing of the 
sort. Itis a world teeming with people. If 
this new fact does not make any difference 
in our lives, we do not deserve to be called 
Christians at all. I solemnly believe we do 
not deserve the name, if we do not feel, with 
this opening up of a new world of perishing 


‘men and women, that it demands from each 


man, woman and child that knows of it, 
fresh and larger gifts, more earnest prayers. 
Let me ask, has it ever brought to your eyes 


a single tear, or given yeu a sleepless nicht, - 


or made your heart ache; have you denied 
yourself a suelo luxury, or intimated a read- 
iness to sacrifice anything in order that Cen- 
tral Africa might have the gospel? Seven 
years ago this discovery was made. The re- 
mark made by your pastor at the beginning 
of the meeting is solemnly true; America 
owes much to Africa. One reason why we 
surrender this mission to the American 
church is the feeling that the Baptists of 
America ought to do something. The Con- 
gregationalists have organized a mission at 
Behar; but the Baptists are doing nothing 
worth speaking of for Africa. Another rea- 


. son was that the Baptists of England are also 
at work on the Congo, and we felt it would 
‘not be good to bring a second denomination 


so near them. 

Another ining is that i seems suitable that 
the great country opened up by their heroic 
journeys should be entered and occupied by 
Americans. But above all, as Christians, 
and not as Americans, I appeal for Christ’s 
sake. Remember he died for these people 
just as much as for you. He loves this peo- 
ple as much as he loves you. What a woeful 
crime to let these fifty mullions sit in the 
darkness and shadow of death, when we 
know that Christ loved them and died tor 
them, and invites us to be witnesses for him, 
and this is the last great task that lies before 
the church of God. China has been opened; 
Japan has been opened; India long since was 
opened; the islands of the Pacific, or the most 
of them, have long since been evangelized. 
Of all the great missions on this globe, the one 
of which I am speaking is, by far, the most 
important, the largest, most populous, most 
dark, most needy and most desperately re- 
quiring the gospel, and the Congo river is 
the most important highway to reach it. To 
you, Baptist churches of America, is now 


confided the entrance to that river; possess ° 


it for Christ’s sake and the gospel’s. By the 
heroic lives of the men and women who have 
fallen in the struggle (not less than twelve 
lie on the banks of the Congo), I beseech you 
by the blood that has been shed, by the lives 
laid down, by the ten thousand prayers that 
have gone up for this mission, now that it is 
in your hands, do not lay down God’s work. 
‘Taft up your eyes and look on the fields, for 
they are white ali eady to harvest, and he that 
reapeth receiveth wages;’”’ and more than 
that, he ‘‘ gathereth fruit unto life eternal; 
that he that soweth and he that reapeth may 
rejoice together.’’ ‘‘'They that turn many 
to righteousness shall shine as the stars for. 
ever. 


THE STANDARD, 
The Leading Baptist Newspaper of the West. 
Sample copies free. 
Goopman & DICKERSON, Pusrisuras, 
j @2 DRAREORN ST., CHICAGO, ILM. 


. = x - ae 
Bie | 


