DOCUMENT_ID: drharryguinnessl0000unse
TITLE (as printed): Dr. Harry Guinness: The Life Story of Henry Grattan Guinness [i.e., of Dr. Harry Guinness, son of Henry Grattan Guinness]
AUTHOR: C. W. Mackintosh
DATE: [1932]
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL: https://archive.org/details/drharryguinnessl0000unse
EDITION: London: Regions Beyond Missionary Union, [1932].
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: Internet Archive OCR (djvu), fetched verbatim via curl, uncorrected
NOTE: SECONDARY biography of Harry Grattan Guinness (the founders' son and successor as Director), written from family papers and letters; used for corroborating dates and named alumni.
No page markers ([[p. N]]) were inserted: the source djvu OCR text carries no machine-readable
page-break characters. Printed page numbers are visible as isolated numerals in the running
OCR text at page boundaries (running heads) and are cited in quote records as they appear nearby.
================================================================================
7 Pa ae 
gioco ptlen papeap eae ae a 


Hf As 
UM. 


me NY 


cs Unto 
Sie 
al 
: () 


it: 
TI WAR 
Se antl 


mS 
Ds 


is 


a 


Sip STD vg 


f 
63 aha 
atl r| tt i} 
PN Pa 
Ciuys Ay mit a 


Ni 
iN {Coa 


of 
ff 


a 


a : i f 
mae wv 


ap 


yin 


tm 
Ban 


Di ir 


4 


(\ td 
Ue Sard 
Na “ | A 


ale awe 
a : 


I 


ya 


WASASASAST SAAS ASAE 


on 
The 
Mennonite Biblical 


eee 


eK 


' 


\ 


ee 


Seminary Library 


a) 


The gift of 


se 


ES 


R. B. HESS 


: 


aK 
ye 


Og 


2, 


M 


epee pgemace weno cn 


= 
¢ 


= 


eS ee LL he 
/ >, ii 


ri 


fo ) 


mt 


= 
=e 2 a 


bes ui 
pi 
hg 


Nee 


pe 


ee Ager Li ee Z 


ee, 


a 


en 
a 


oe ee ee 
( 


e072 “ Khas Bae 


DR. HARRY GUINNESS 


The Life Story of 
Henry Grattan Guinness, M.D. F.R.G.S. 


BY 
C. W. MACKINTOSH. 


Pi 
Spes Meo in Deo. [oo bs é 
(Motto of the Guinness family.) f : . Ej ; es 
BR, iy oy 
‘Yo > / 
oO: . tS 
eo oo ~ S$ VA 


Published by 
Tue Recions Beyonp Missionary Union, 
HARLEY HOUSE, BOW, LONDON, E. 


1916. 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 
FOREWORD ... 80K, ie ae Ane cory ate aoe 5 
INTRODUCTION aa wes eee A Sir Ath mee 7 
CHILDHOOD AND STUDENT Days... eae 5 500 ser 9 
AUSTRALIAN MISSIONS ee Sere ase oer nae ae 22 
Tue Conco EXPEDITION ... sae aes Ae ae = 37 


HomE WoRK AND THE REGIONS BEYOND Missionary UNION 48 


JOURNEY TO PERU ... ond cad nee oe eae cee 55 
THE Conco CrusaDE ar He Go eee Re ane 67 
InNpDIA ... nee one ar “ec at att se eae 80 
Last YEARS aT HOME ... sie 305 eee nae aoe 93 


APPENDIX : 


MEMORIAL ADDRESSES wee site 


be sea See LOS 
REMINISCENCES... mae S66 oe ane ae eee OS 
LETTERS Ae Ses say ae ane aa ice kes 
History oF REGioNs BEYonD Missionary UNION Re ES 


LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 


H. Grattan Guinness, M.D. ... ans sis Frontispiece 

TO FACE PAGE 
HARLEY House me ace srs wae wae we wen 12 
Dr. GUINNESS AT NINETEEN YEARS OF AGE ... age we 22 
Mrs. H. GraTTaAN GUINNESS, SENR. ... AOA sae Se 30 
Bompona STATION, UPPER CONGO ae aus a ee 38 
A Boncwonca N’GOMBE ... at se we nat ane de 
FIRST-FRUITS FROM LOLOLAND ... See ane aK sare 46 
Dr. AND Mrs. GUINNESS, AND Famity, 1897... = Re 54 
Dr. H. GRATTAN GUINNESS, SENR. a ae See va 55 
Rev. A. L. BANKS AND THE ORPHANAGE Boys aT SIWAN ... 80 
AN INDIAN SADHU ... Bae iss < ec An ee 86 
HarLey COLLEGE ... ee ois wae a ae sis 94 


Dr. GUINNESS AT FIFTY YEARS OF AGE ait Bex “ 97 


FOREWORD. 


full and varied that but scant justice can be done to it in 

a little booklet ; volumes might be written concerning his 

unceasing labours to advance the Kingdom of our Lord 
Jesus Christ. 

We marvel at his abounding energy and deep earnestness of spirit, 
his entire devotion and never-failing readiness to take up any cause, 
however unpopular, if in that way the message of Salvation might 
be brought to needy ones; the light of the Gospel carried to them 
that sit in darkness. 

We are thankful for what God enabled Dr. Harry Guinness to 
do in the dark places of the earth. How many must be full of praise 
and gratitude as they look back upon his work on the Congo through- 
out Darkest Africa and in all the Regions Beyond, where he went as 
the pioneer of the Gospel. 

Being myself so closely connected with work amongst young 
men of all kinds, and specially in connection with the Y.M.C.A., I 
am glad to have this opportunity of bearing my testimony to the 
special gifts which Dr. Harry Guinness had for influencing young 
men by his high ideal and putting them on their guard against the 
many temptations by which they would be assailed. He ever realized 
that the only path of real safety was by the way of the Cross, and his 
happy disposition always attracted young men. When this terrible 
war began he threw himself whole-heartedly into the grand oppor- 
tunity given to the Y.M.C.A. to help the young men gathered in their 

AY 5 
aX 
y h\ 


4es life and work of my friend, Dr. Harry Guinness, was so 


Lire OF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


tens of thousands at the camps. I am sure that many a man now 
fighting valiantly for his country is helped in his arduous duties by 
the remembrance of Dr. Harry Guinness’s words to them before they 
left this country. 

It is difficult to imagine one man being able to take part in, and 
energizing, so many different efforts. Only his intense reliance upon 
God for all power and help and guidance ; his profound trust in God’s 
Word and promises, and his firm conviction that the Divine purposes 
of grace and mercy were bound to be accomplished, made possible 
his remarkable life. He heard the command, “Go ye into all the 
world and preach the Gospel to every creature,” and he sought to 
obey. 

I commend this record of his life as an inspiration and an 
encouragement to us who are still left here to work while it is 
called To-day, remembering that the night cometh when no man can 
work. 

KINNAIRD. 


INTRODUCTION. 


“ What manner of child shall this be?” “And the Hand of the 
Lord was with him.’—(S. Luke i. 66.) 


E scene is in the New World, on the winter shores of Canada ; 
the date is January, 1862, the year of the great struggle 
between North and South, between the slave-owning States 
of America and the Free. A young mother, with her baby 
of three months old on her knee, and with many apprehensions in her 
heart, is being piloted across the frozen estuary of the St. Lawrence 
from Quebec on the way to embark at Portland (U.S.A.) for England. 
“We were anxious to sail in January,”’ her journal records, 
“the voyages in that month being generally more favourable than 
for several months afterwards. The crossing of the St. Lawrence is 
a frightful and exciting exploit. I was terrified in going over to 
Quebec, expecting each moment to be swallowed up in the surging 
ice. On returning we had, in answer to prayer, a much more favour- 
able transit, half an hour instead of two hours, and less severe cold.”’ 
The child to whom thus early the winds were tempered was 
Henry Grattan Guinness, the subject of this memoir, in whom was 
inborn—it could not be otherwise—the instinct of the knight-errant , 
that combination of chivalry and Christian faith with the love of 
roving and of dangerous and exciting adventure. He was to be no 
Don Quixote, however, tilting at windmills for want of giants to fight. 
He lived in an age when by the opening up of “ the new and naked 
lands ”’ adventures were not difficult to seek, when there were many 
dragons to be slain; and by the Grace of God he was given to his 


7 


Lire oF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


own generation to be a true and dauntless Red Cross Knight. Never 
have Spenser’s oft-quoted lines been more truly applied than to the 
one whom these pages commemorate. 


Full jolly knight he seemed and faire did sitt, 
As one for knightly giusts and fierce encounters fitt. 


And on his breast a bloudie crosse he bore, 
The deare remembrance of his dying Lord ; 
For whose sweet sake that glorious badge he bore 
And dead, as living, ever Him adored. 
Upon his shield the like was also scored 
For sovran hope which in His helpe he had 
Right faithful true he was in deed and word. 
* * * 


Upon a great adventure was he bond. 
* * * 
And ever as he rode his hart did yearne 
To prove his puissance in battell brave 
Upon his foe, and his new force to learn 
Upon that fue, a Dragon terrible and stern. 


CHAPTER IL. 


CHILDHOOD AND STUDENT DAYS, 
1861-1880. 


ARRY GUINNESS, as he was always affectionately called, to 
distinguish him from his father, was born in Toronto, 
Canada, October 2, 1861, on the first anniversary of 
his parents’ wedding day. More than most men, he was 

the child of his race and upbringing. His mother was a Fitzgerald, 
his father a Guinness. Thus on both sides he claimed descent from a 
long line of Irish ancestors: landowners, soldiers, sailors, clergymen 
and advocates; these fill three-quarters of the family escutcheon, 
and from them he derived his fine physique, his mental powers, his 
prowess in all manly sports and recreations, and his instinct for 
leadership. But the fourth quarter brings in a mystical and musical 
strain, for his paternal grandmother was the daughter of John Baptist 
Cramer, famous as a composer, and still more as the conductor of 
Handel’s orchestral festivals and Bandmaster to King George the 
Third. This lady, known in youth as “ the beautiful Miss Cramer, of 
Dublin,” had married Captain Norcott D’Esterre, R.N. (killed two 
years after (1815) in a celebrated duel with Daniel O’Connell, the 
Liberator), and many years later she became the wife of Captain 
John Grattan Guinness, himself a widower and lately retired from 
a brilliant career in the East India Company’s service. Both were 
deeply but quietly religious (Captain Grattan Guinness appears to 
have beena Nonconformist) ; andtothe storms of their youth succeeded 
a happy afternoon of life, in which three sons were given to them. 
Henry Grattan, the eldest of these, was to be the father of Harry 


Guinness. 


LiFE oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


These boys being early left fatherless and but meagrely provided 
for, the two eldest entered the merchant service. The purposes of 
God are carried out in the least expected ways. The vessel on which 
the younger brother sailed had for mate a Christian man (Mr., after- 
ward Captain, Peek), who was the means of his conversion, and he, 
like Andrew, “ first found his own brother ”’ the very night that he 
returned from this momentous voyage. It was the beginning of a 
much blessed career for both. The younger went to College and 
became a parish clergyman.* The other flung himself almost at 
once into the work of evangelization, which culminated in the wonder- 
ful scenes and experiences of the Irish Revival, and remaining like 
his father, outside the Established Church, he was to become a world- 
wide preacher and the pioneer of Christian enterprises in every part 
of the world. But he was not to be an evangelist only. Other gifts 
still latent, both in himself and in his future wife, Fanny Fitzgerald, 
came to rich fruition through their marriage in October, 1860. She, 
of ancestry similar to his own, had been early left an orphan, and with 
her sisters was adopted and brought up among the Quakers—an 
education which providentially gave her just the training her tempera- 
ment and future activity required, and in a wonderful way her social 
and literary and administrative talents supplemented her husband’s 
as a preacher and asa writer on prophetic subjects. 


In every work of God can be traced, first the outburst of Spring, 
then the fall of the blossom, and after a long peMod of apparent 
quiescence, but in reality of intense though hidden activity, then comes 
the fruit. People say, “ The Revival is over and look at the falling- 
off!’ But the fall is only of the outward beauty and the unfertilized 
embryos. The real fruit remains maturing under the leaves till it is 
ripe to feed the world’s need. That spring-time of the Spirit’s work 
was already over for them when Harry Guinness came to gladden 
his parents’ hearts. In studying Divine Truth they had shot ahead 
of their age; their views and teachings were now disapproved of by 
many, and to the early popularity succeeded years of difficulty, 
privation and perplexity ; when, as evangelists, but without any 
permanent charge, they had no certain income, no certain dwelling- 


*Rector of Rathdrum, Co. Wicklow, and father of the Rev. Percy Wyndham 
Guinness, D.S.0., Chaplain to the Forces. 


10 


CHILDHOOD AND STUDENT Days. 


place and, worst of all, saw but little result from their abundant labours. 
But though they had not a house they had the true patriarchal Home. 
“Where they spread their tent . . . they erected there an altar.” 
(Gen. xxxiii. 19.) The mother’s letters and journals show with what care 
and affection she watched over every development in these little ones, 
who were all to be later on such earnest workers for God. 

“The darling children are well and deluged with presents,” she 
wrote (on January 5, 1865, from Limerick). . . . ‘‘Friends are so kind 
tothem. Harry went toa Christmas Tree and saw a little boy teasing 
a little girl. He marched up and collared him, saying, ‘ I’ll tell you 
what, sir, if you tease that lady fair, I’ll put you in prison or shoot 
you dead!’ Where he had heard such an expression I have no idea, 
but it sounded absurdly gallant from a little three-year old... . 
He has such a hearty laugh you would think he was ten years old.” 
In this chivalrous respect for women the child was father to the man. 

During several of these early years Mrs. Guinness herself was 
preaching the Gospel, at first to women only, afterwards to mixed 
gatherings—not without some misgivings—the arguments pro and con 
being long and anxiously debated in her journals—but certainly with 
manifest blessing, and not least to her little son, as another entry 
shows : 

February 3, 1868: “‘ Dear little Harry was so sweet coming 
home just now, affectionate and careful of me. He said, ‘I liked that 
meeting very much to-night, Mamma.’ Presently, when he came in 
he said, ‘ Ah, Susan, if you were to go with Mamma like me, then you’d 
know what preaching means. I think J could preach, only I wouldn’t 
let Papa hear or the public, only you and Minnie and Martha.’ ” 
(Minnie was his much-loved sister Geraldine, afterwards Mrs. Howard 
Taylor.) 

A note in December, 1866, explains much of the influence exercised 
over these children by the parents, who were so often perforce separated 
from them. 


“ At Wakefielda day or two since, Henry met one of Mr. Spurgeon’s 
elders. Speaking of the conversion of children he said he thought it 
would rarely be any marked change or enlightenment of mind, but a 
gradual turning of heart toward God, and urged the cultivation of 
spiritual affections.” 


11 


LIFE OF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


Though this counsel was scarcely needed, it was admirably acted 
upon, and this “ gradual turning of the heart toward God” exactly 
describes the growth of the Divine life in Harry Guinness. However, 
at this time and for some years to come, according to his own testi- 
mony, he had by no means given his heart to God. “ Nothing to 
distinguish him from other lads of the same age, or give promise of 
what he would become. Full of life, fond of games, always having 
notes written for him on account of being late for school in the morning, 
when he would not get-up!” Such is the testimony of a friend and 
inmate a little later on. But between his eleventh and twelfth birth- 
days a deep and silent work took place in his heart, and though very 
gradual it proved to be the real change from death unto life. On 
August 29, 1873, at their own earnest request, he and his two 
sisters, Lucy and Geraldine, were baptized at the Edinburgh Castle, 
Dr. Barnardo’s well-known Mission Hall at Stepney Green. 

This may well be considered the starting-point of his Christian 
career. In the same year his parents established the East London 
Institute for Home and Foreign Missions, which later on, under his 
own direction, was to develop into the Regions Beyond Missionary 
Union, to open up three great Mission fields in Central Africa, South 
America and India, and to send forth no less than fifteen hundred 
young men and women to carry the Gospel into the dark places of the 
earth. In November, 1874, it was removed to its present headquarters 
at Harley House, Bow. 

Its origin may be traced to three sources. First to the intense 
desire to save souls which had always inspired their lives. Secondly, 
to their first meeting with Mr. Hudson Taylor, when he had just 
returned from Inland China overwhelmed with the sense of its spiritual 
destitution. The impression he produced upon their minds was so 
powerful that they felt constrained to offer themselves for service 
there, but it was clearly shown to them that their path of service was 
not to go themselves, but to train others for the Mission Field. Thirdly, 
to their own study of Scripture and especially of prophecy, which had 
convinced them not only of the Divine purpose that Christ should be 
preached to every creature, but also that His Coming must be near, 
and that the time was short. 

The history of this Institute has shown that the study of prophecy, 
which so many dismiss as “ useless and unpractical,” led to the most 


12 


CHILDHOOD AND STUDENT Days. 


practical results imaginable, and that zeal for the salvation of the 
heathen led not to neglect of those at their doors, but, on the con- 
trary, to greater earnestness on their behalf, for the activities going 
out from Harley House, Bow, have been a blessing to the whole 
neighbourhood ever since the Institute was set up there. 

In 1868, Mr. and Mrs. Grattan Guinness had been led to France 
to give a fresh impulse to the Evangélisation Populaire, which has 
since been so wonderfully developed by the McCall Mission. In Paris, 
another son was born (Dr. Whitfield Guinness, now a Medical Mis- 
sionary in China). For the children these eighteen months, of which 
they spent three in Switzerland, were a very happy time, and here 
Harry learnt the fluent French which was to be so useful to him, 
especially in the Congo campaign. On the outbreak of the Franco- 
Prussian War in 1870 they returned to England, and three years later 
they began the great work of their lives, as above related. 

By this time, 1873, Harry Guinness was twelve years old, and the 
following year he entered Tettenhall College, Wolverhampton, a well- 
known Congregational School, which he left at the end of 1879. Here 
we have glimpses of a clever, charming boy, more distinguished in 
sports than in studies, disliking arithmetic, but eager in the pursuit 
of physicalscience. “‘ A most loveable boy, and a great favourite with 
masters and pupils,” says one of the tutors. At this time it was his 
hope to become a Medical Missionary, and the next five years after 
leaving school were spent at home while studying at the London > 
Hospital, Whitechapel. He entered it on October 1, 1880, and eleven 
days later won the Buxton Scholarship. The founding of the Hospital 
Athletic Club was due to his initiative. At the Crystal Palace, June 
10, 1881, he secured the world’s record for slow bicycling on the old 
high bicycle then in vogue, difficult to ride otherwise than at full speed. 

But by far the most important incident for his future career was the 
occasion when, in his own words, “he ran his flag up to the mast- 
head.’”’ Many years later he told the story himself at the Keswick 
Convention, when he spoke on the words of Abner, “ Ye sought for 
David in times past to be King over you. Now then, doit” (2Sam. 
ili. 17, 18). 


** When I went up to hospital as a youngster, I shall never forget 
how God answered one of my prayers rather more quickly than I 


13 


Lire oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


anticipated. In those days there were comparatively few Christian 
men in that institution. I knew my own weakness, and simply prayed 
Godtokeepmeandtohelpmeconfess Him. The prayer was answered 
the first day I was there in rather a striking way. I mention it 
because there are young men listening to me this afternoon, and it 
may help to strengthen them.” 

““T happened to meet on the first day a rather kindly fellow, 
who said, ‘ You’re a new chap, aren’t you? Look here, will you come 
up to our Debating Society 2? Wecallit the Clinical Society.” ‘When 
is it?’ said I. ‘It is to-night, and we like to get new men. You 
need not be a bit afraid—there is nothing religious about it.’ He 
seemed to think that, of course, anything religious would be a terrible 
thing to me; and he further said, ‘ One of our rules is that no one is 
allowed to allude to a religious thing.’ I was not frightened, and up 
I went. That night—shall I ever forget it—taking the Chair was one 
well known to you by name—Mr. (now Sir) Frederick Treves. In 
the course of the proceedings they talked about a great many things 
I did not understand—medical things. But when one man was upon 
his feet, he took occasion to say something about Jesus Christ that 
made my blood boil and my ears tingle. I was astonished and horri- 
fied, and by and by down hesat. I wondered what ought to be done. 
I think, as far as I know, that my brain had not made up its mind, 
but my legs had automatically made up their mind, and I found myself 
standing upon my feet. Of course, I had to say something, so I said, 
‘Mr. President and Gentlemen, I do not know whether you would like 
a First Year man to speak.’ ‘ Hear, hear,’ said they, ‘ we shall be 
very glad to hear you.’ ‘ Well,’ said I, ‘it may be out of order, but 
I was informed when I came up here by the gentleman who invited 
me, that it is against the laws of your society to allude to religious 
matters. Isthatso?’ ‘Quiteright.’ ‘Ifthat beso, Mr. President— 
if we be not allowed to allude to religious matters, then 1 beg to protest 
against the words of the gentleman who has just sat down. He has 
spoken against One who is my Lord, my Saviour and my King, in a 
way that has made my blood boil, and I beg to protest against it.’ 

“I sat down, not knowing whether the ground was about to open 
and let me through, whether there would be a tremendous hissing, 
or what would happen. But there was a thunder of applause, and 
at the close of the meeting Mr. Treves came up and asked me my name. 


14 


CHILDHOOD AND STUDENT Days. 


“Now, look here, Guinness,’ he said, ‘I’m glad to know you. You 
“come back to these meetings, and if ever a man does what that man 
did to-night, you do exactly what you did. I’m very glad to meet you. 
Sir Frederick Treves has remained my friend from that day to this. 
All I can say about it is this: in answer to prayer somehow the flag 
got run up that day, and it has stuck up—it never came down. That 
is the easiest way by far. I think that I had not one half-hour of 
serious difficulty after that in all the five years I was up at the hospital. 
I would like to say to any young fellow who is going up to college, 
or to any hospital, ‘Dear fellow, if you are going to make Christ 

King, run up the flag.’ 

*** Number one—Unconditional surrender ; Number two—The flag 
at the masthead ; the third thing is Loyalty to the backbone. Now, 
then, do tt.’ ”’ 


Such a position once taken had to be maintained, and by God’s 
grace it was maintained all through his course at the hospital, as the 
following letter, a spontaneous tribute, clearly proves : 

Dr. Edwin B. Neatby writes: “I well remember Harry Guinness 
in his first year at the London Hospital, when I was about to leave it. 
At that early date he stood out boldly and nobly as a Christian, and 
a fearless opponent of materialism and infidelity. His honesty and 
manliness won him the admiration and respect, not only of seniors, 
but of his opponents. 

“‘ He has retained that respect all the years of his public service 
for Christ, besides winning the affections of his fellow-workers.”’ 


During his hospital course he was able to keep in close touch 
with all the interests now growing up around the East London 
Institute, and he threw himself into them with characteristic ardour, 
devoting to them, as his journal shows, every moment he could 
snatch from his medical duties. In this he was helped by circum- 
stances of the moment, as well as by his personal aptitudes and 
surroundings. He had grown up in the afterglow of the great mid- 
century revival; it inspired all his convictions, and now a new one 
seemed to be dawning. It was the era of Moody and Sankey’s second 
campaign in England—of the Salvation Army’s chief triumphs. 
The Consecration teaching at Mildmay, and the Keswick Convention 


15 


Lire oF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


for the Promotion of Practical Holiness were rousing Christians to a 
higher ideal of life and service. The Church Missionary Society and 
others were initiating forward movements. New Missions were 
being organized in every direction, and old Missions were taking on a 
new lease of life. ‘‘ There was a sound of war in the camp,” and the 
bugle-call is irresistible to the young ear. One might almost think the 
enemy had been taken by surprise, for notwithstanding indifference 
and opposition on the part of many, hearts everywhere seemed to be 
singularly open to the message of salvation. Not only were the meetings 
of leading evangelists thronged, but also the humblest gatherings 
where the simple Gospel was proclaimed, and from the first the young 
preacher had the happiness of knowing that he did not labour in 
vain. “ The Lord their God was with them, and the shout of a King 
was among them.” 

Neither was this Revival a mere outburst of evangelism that 
awoke thousands of souls and then died down. Like the earlier one 
of 1859—1860, it was a movement of the Holy Spirit that sent men 
and women to study their Bibles as they had never done before, 
awakening them not only to many forgotten truths, but to the sense 
of duties unfulfilled, and toa new zest inservice. Aboveall, it brought 
the message of Deliverance both from the guilt and power of sin. 
“ For the law of the Spirit of Life in Christ Jesus hath made me free 
from the law of sinand death.” The realization of this truth certainly 
gave birth to an extraordinarily joyous Christian generation. 


“ The last thought which comes to me is, that the attitude of those 
whose eyes are toward God should be one of joy. I had the opportunity 
a few days ago toread a paper . . . dealing with the missionary 
motive of the Nineteenth Century. The writer, who has made a special 
study of the subject, especially in missionary biographies, and the state- 
ments made by Student Volunteers, reaches the conclusion that in the 
latter period, as distinct from the earlier, the note of joy almost entirely 
disappears, and the dominant thought is that of duty and responsibility. 
It is a great thing to realize our duty and obligation to the non-Christian 
world, but if we are to do the highest work, we must get back the note of 
joy.”’* 


Emphatically, Harry Guinness belonged to this missionary era of 
joy, and throughout his life and preaching, but more especially in his 
letters and journals, we can trace the. double working of this message 

* J. H. Oldham, July, 1913, International Review of Missions. 


16 


CHILDHOOD AND STUDENT Days. 


of Deliverance, both from the inward and outward bondage of sin. 
“Is not this the fast that I have chosen, saith the Lord, that ye break 
every yoke and let the oppressed go free?’? Thus the great work 
he did afterwards in helping to release the Congo natives from in- 
human conditions of life and his endeavours to obtain liberty for the 
Gospel in Peru, were organically connected with the evangelistic 
work which was always, and to the end, the nearest to his heart. 


Journal, March 2, 1884. ‘ I spoke on ‘ My Deliverer.’ ”’ 

Journal, March 18, 1884. ‘“‘Stranger’s Rest, Ratcliff Highway, 
Spoke to room full on ‘ The Deliverer.’ On inviting them into the 
side room nearly all came in. Eleven sailors asked prayer, and 
prayed themselves in broken ejaculations for forgiveness and deliver- 
ance. Bless the Lord! So rough and ragged and wretched, but 
within the ‘ uttermost.’ ”’ 

Journal, May 25, 1884. ‘‘O wretched man that I am, who shall 
deliver me, etc.” = 

As a preacher he began his career at the age of eighteen, and 
continued it until the day he was stricken down with fatal illness, 
April 10, 1915. The very day before he had been addressing 
soldiers of the new armies (at the Duke of York’s School, Chelsea), 
whose testimony was “ that they would never forget the words he had 
spoken.” ; 

It is noteworthy that according to his mother’s journal of 1880, 
the first address he gave was alsoat a Soldiers’ Institute. Before May, 
1884, he had preached two hundred and thirty-five times, and seldom 
without witnessing definite conversions, which have stood the test of 
time. 

The work that centred at the East London Institute was essen- 
tially one of youth. Except for the revered founders, all were young ; 
the missionary students on the one hand, and on the other the sons and 
daughters of the house and their cousins, the Misses Fooks, who lived 
with them. This happy group was reinforced from time to time by 
comrades of school and college, and by the children of their parents’ 
friends and helpers. Bow had once been a favourite suburb, and 
Harley House was one of the large residences that still survive, now 
mostly let out in flatsandtenements. Buta vast labouring population 


17 


LirE oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


had gathered round the chemical works and match factories, and 
was spreading out from Bow, north, south and east, toward Hackney, 
Limehouse and Stratford, too rapidly for the religious agencies 
already at work there to keep pace with it. The Factory Helpers’ 
Union was not yet begun. The young girls of the family at Harley 
House did much to pave the way for it, working ardently among the 
factory girls. Other activities were carried on by them, and by the 
students in training—visiting in common lodging houses, conducting 
Bible Classes and Night Schools for men and lads, Mothers’ Meetings, 
Lantern Lectures in the Winter, and Garden Parties in the grounds of 
Harley House in summer, for cabmen, policemen and others, with 
their wives and children. Harry Guinness was in great request to 
conduct simple entertainments, such as music (he both sang and 
played the cornet), games, ventriloquism and conjuring. 

Many a young man and woman has at this stage been side- 
tracked on to the lower level of social work and reformation. From 
this, however, the members of this group were preserved. Throughout 
all these undertakings a high spiritual level was maintained. They 
had learned how to sanctify recreation. Every gathering was prefaced 
and followed by praise and prayer, and it would probably be true to 
say that scarcely one person could enter any of them, whether partly 
social or wholly spiritual in character, without having heard the Lord 
Jesus Christ presented as the Saviour of sinners. 

Moreover, the missionary purpose was never lost sight of. Stories 
of exploration and of the spiritual needs of the heathen opened new 
horizons in many narrow, toiling lives, and for the warm-hearted 
East-enders a personal interest was added when the students and other 
workers, whom they had learnt to know and love, left one by one for 
these far-off lands. Thus the souls won for Christ were linked on to 
the great cause, and many were the touching gifts made to the treasury 
of money formerly spent, perhaps, in drink or gambling, but quite as 
often in more innocent indulgences, such as tobacco, which they would 
deny themselves for the sake of God’s work. 

The historical view of prophecy adopted by Mr. and Mrs. Grattan 
Guinness led them to watch closely the course of current events for 
the unfolding of what they aptly termed the Divine Programme, 
eager to seize every new opportunity that opened for spreading the 
pure Gospel. Every fresh discovery they felt as a fresh responsibility 


18 


CHILDHOOD AND STUDENT Days. 


laid upon them, Thus to all associated with them, and especially to 
the young people, life became intensely interesting, for they felt they 
were not only watching the world’s history, but actually helping to 
make it. Christianity to them did not present itself as a giving-up ; it 
meant a glorious advance in all that made life worth living. Hence 
it was a time of gladness and of cheerful sacrifice, Ailarious in the true 
Greek sense* of the word. There was no shamefacedness about their 
faith and testimony. Why indeed apologise for the finest thing 
on earth ? 


The joy of loyal service to the King 
Shone through them all, and lit up other lives 
With the new fire of faith, that ever strives, 
Like a swift kindling beacon, far to fling 
The tidings of His victory, and claim 
New subjects for His realm, new honours for His Name. 


Such was the inspiration of the hour. And it was this crusading 
company that looked to Harry Guinness as its captain in all the 
brilliance and fulness of his young energies. He was a born leader. 
A keen athlete, tall, handsome, with bright blue eyes and a ringing 
laugh, an atmosphere of vigorous health, moral and physical, radiated 
from him. He also possessed that higher histrionic power which 
enables a man to focus and express in his own person the character in 
which he stands forth—in his case as a champion of “ the Faith once- 
for all delivered to the saints.”’ It was not that he eclipsed others. 
On the contrary, he illuminated them. When he appeared on the 
scene almost everybody felt and knew they were at their best—ten 
times themselves! Everybody wanted to do their utmost for him as 
leader, and to let him enjoy all the credit. It was an instinctive 
recognition of the fact that the work was really his, though operating 
through them. In short, as his devoted sister said of him, “ Harry is a 
splendour.”’ 

His upbringing, living in the East End in daily friendly inter- 
course with all sorts and conditions of men, and alternately travelling 
abroad, or visiting among friends in the circle to which, by birth, he 
belonged, combined with a warm heart and broad sympathies, made 
him equally at ease in every company, and enabled him instinctively 


* 2 Cor. ix. 7: ‘a cheerful giver.” 


19 


Lire or Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


to find the right way of approach to heart and conscience. The 
working-classes loved him, and they knew him well. 

No doubt he keenly enjoyed the love and admiration that sur- 
rounded him. There was nothing in him of the pride that apes 
humility, but as his own records prove, he was safeguarded by the true 
inward lowliness that comes from the sense of the Divine Call and its 
claims. This made him ready to learn from others all that might help 
him in evangelistic work. For this reason, whenever Messrs. Moody 
and Sankey were holding meetings in London at this time, he endea- 
voured to take part in them, thus gaining experience himself and 
learning from others, as his journal shows :— 


Journal, December 9, 1883. “I find the devil assaults one— 
just when you are weary and off your guard. A very favourite time 
for him to come to me is Sunday evening after preaching. ‘ Hold 
Thoumeup .. . that my footsteps slip not,’ is my continual prayer. 
Nothing unfits for service like conscious sin! Moody might have 
added, ‘a clear conscience’ to his list of pre-requisites to service. 
To-day he took up Faith, Zeal, Sympathy, Love very well. God 
bless me in his meetings this coming week. I have had two enquirers 
at each meeting there; better deal with two satisfactorily than deal 
with six poorly and quickly. There isa great deal of ‘ bad converting ’ 
done. It is a capital thing to be ‘ well converted’ to start with, 
as we see in dear Hyde (Moody’s son) with us now. Only one year 
old and yet almost shames me often ! ” 

Many such passages might be quoted. 

He also received much spiritual help at this time from the ministry 
of Dr. Parker, and still more from that of the Rev. Archibald G. 
Brown, whose services he attended regularly for some years at the 
East London Tabernacle. During his last year of study, and after- 
wards until he sailed for Australia, he spent most of his free time 
working at Harley Hall, Bromley-by-Bow, and in a tent belonging 
to the Institute. This was pitched on a piece of vacant ground near 
Devons Road, and opened on April 18, 1884. The want of a permanent 
building was acutely felt, and eventually Berger Hall was adapted 
to meet this need, thanks chiefly to the exertions of himself and his 
mother. This was his first practical undertaking, and it was a com- 
plete success. Its activities have gone on uninterruptedly from that 


20 


CHILDHOOD AND STUDENT Days. 


day tothis. It has grown into one of the most valued institutions of 
Bromley-by-Bow, and has been the birthplace and nursery of many 
souls. The experiences gained there at its humble beginnings were a 
valuable preparation for the important work to which Harry Guinness 
was now providentially called. 

In January, 1885, he passed the Conjoint Examination as M.R.C.S. 
and L.R.C.P. : 


Journal, February 18, 1885: “I feel that I am passing through 
a great period of change just now. The broad avenues of the future 
yet untrod open before me, whilst the days of first commencing labour 
are gone by. Answers to our many prayers for guidance are being 
realized every day, and He is leading. My medical examinations are 
a thing of the past, a standpoint and a plateau has been reached, 
but the ascent has only been begun. The day after to-morrow I am 
to leave old Harley House, and all the well-loved scenes around, to go 
tofar Tasmania for dear Lucyand Gershom. I pause for just amoment 
ere I thus do enter on new scenes and labours, to note the Hand of 
God during the past two months. . . .” 


This journey to the Antipodes forms the subject of the next 
chapter. It had momentous consequences in more ways than one, 
since it introduced him, not only to a career of public ministry, but to 
his future wife, the unfailing supporter and helper in all his life’s work. 


21 


CHAPTER IT: 


AUSTRALIAN MISSIONS, 
1885-6. 


ARRY GUINNESS was twenty-three years of age when the 
providential invitation of his parents’ friend, Mrs. Henry 
Reed, of Launceston, Tasmania, brought him to her home 
at Mount Pleasant. It had been planned that he should 
stay for a few months and then return to England with his young 
brother and sister, whom she had taken out to Australia with her 
own children. But events turned out otherwise. She greatly en- 
couraged him in preaching, and success was so immediate as to be 
almost overwhelming. He reached Tasmania at the end of April, 
1885. Before Christmas he had conducted Missions, lasting about a 
fortnight in each place, in Hobart, Launceston, Adelaide, Melbourne, 
Sydney, Hotham and Ballarat, during which seven hundred and 
fifty-three persons professed conversion. For the first few months 
of 1886 (January to May) he acted as interim pastor of the Christian 
Mission Church in Launceston, founded by the late Mr. Henry Reed 
(who had been a leading settler in Tasmania, an ardent preacher 
and promoter of all Christian enterprises). As soon as the Rev. George 
Soltau arrived from England to take up this charge he felt free to accept 
further invitations to hold meetings on the Australian continent, 
and there the wave of blessing rose higher and higher. 

The furious opposition of a group of Freethinkers only seemed to 
stimulate the crowds who thronged to hear him; and the Australian 
newspapers, secular as well as religious, contained full accounts of the 
vast meetings which overflowed the largest public halls. His ministry 
was especially successful with young men, and in Adelaide, where he 


22 


AUSTRALIAN MISSIONS. 


held his last Mission before returning to England, the Rev. Silas Mead 
(afterwards to be for some years the honoured Principal of Harley 
College) laid on him a parting trust : “‘ Remember, you are to be a Young 
Man’s Minister—I charge you not to forget this.”’ 

‘A professional physiognomist, who had only seen him on the 
platform, drew his portrait in a column and a half of a Melbourne 
paper, from which a few sentences may be quoted : 


“Dr. Guinness is one of the highly favoured, richly endowed 
sons of Adam, who can command success in almost any calling. He 
is a man of genius. . . . The Admirable Crichton must have been 
just sucha man.... 

“ He has the look of the thoroughbred ; perhaps he is proud of his 
name and country and of the work he does ; he is not likely to have a 
mean and low pride of any kind. Meanness that haggles about cents 
is not likely to bea fault of his. 

“ Truly, if there be soul in a man, Dr. Guinness will find it; there 
is a soul in him and it looks out at every avenue. It is easy to see 
that it is a real soul, a fiery soul, a soul that means to carry all before 
it, and put wrongs right ; it isa combative soul, a soul ready to singe, 
scorch, lash, burn, destroy evil in whatever form it meets it. He is 
brimful of logic and earnest conviction. He has revelation in his right 
hand and science in his left, and can use both weapons freely. His 
wits are all about him; he is at any time ready for any encounter. 
There are men who know ten times as much as he who cannot fight 
so well; for their knowledge acts like David’s armour before he put 
it off and chose ‘ five smooth stones.’ ”’ 


The Australian Christian World said of his Mission in Sydney : 

“ Nightly, the large Hall of the Young Men’s Christian Association 
was crowded with deeply interested gatherings of young men. At 
each service large numbers of them were found seeking Christ through 
the medium of the Enquiry Room. Nor was this all: special noon- 
day meetings for Bible Reading and Prayer were organized, at all of 
which there was a large preponderance of young men. Speaking of 
the Mission as a whole, Sydney has seen nothing like it for many a day. 

** At each of the services the Doctor’s invariable custom was to 
offer special prayers for young men who desired to be recommended 


23 


Lirz oF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


at the Throne of Grace, and in response to this appeal there were 
generally as many as seventy or eighty hands uplifted, but the effects 
of the ‘tongue of fire’ was shown in other ways than these. Daily 
did Dr. Guinness receive numerous letters from young men who had 
been touched at some previous stage of the Mission. Some of these 
were heartrending ; some pathetic toa degree, but all seeking the same 
counsel in their distress as to what they must do to inherit Eternal 
Life. In addition to the letters, many also took advantage of the 
Doctor’s kindness to confer with them during the day time, either on 
spiritual or medical questions, so that altogether it must have been a 
busy week. His intensely earnest spirit, however, allows of no 
wearying, and love for the Master seems to wonderfully lighten his 
arduous labours. At the Farewell Meeting on Sunday evening there 
was by far a larger attendance than on any previous evening. In 
fact, many went away, unable to gain admission.” 


Another paper says: “‘ Fifteen thousand applications have been 
made for Dr. Guinness’ last lecture to men in Melbourne.”’ 

There were three chief classes whom he was exactly fitted to deal 
with. First, the great mass of more or less educated young people, 
anxious to believe, but perplexed by the arguments of a shallow 
infidelity ; secondly, persons of every age, living in spiritual bondage, 
to whom the message of Deliverance that rang from his lips came as a 
revelation of Divine possibilities ; and, finally, the very much larger 
number belonging to every rank of life, whose faith had lost the prop of 
a good conscience. He had the true physician’s instinct, which forbids 
any paltering with the source of ill, and in bringing out the fearful 
consequences of sin he never failed to point his hearers to Christ as the 
Only Healer and Deliverer. 

But his work was not only on the platform and in the Enquiry 
room. He paid great attention to the musical arrangements, in early 
years leading the singing with his silver cornet ; and sometimes com- 
posing hymns and tunes, which he taught to the audience. The most 
popular of these was, “‘ I will trust and not be afraid.’’ He spared no 
pains to make the meetings successful from the practical point of view 
as, é.g., he writes from the South of England in 1887 : 


“‘T have been really hard at work. Yesterday I seated the Town 
Hall myself, working with my own hands amongst the dirty old forms 


24 


AUSTRALIAN MISSIONS. 


andchairs! Isee everything through, and keep printers, hall-keepers, 
waggon-drivers and contractors, the Town Chamberlain and many 
lady helpers, besides the ministers and others, with hands full! The 
Christians as well as unsaved are being roused up.” 


It will thus be seen that his success was not accidental, and that . 
he did not “ offer to the Lord that which cost him nothing.” ‘‘ You’ve 
got to put your back into it,” was a favourite expression of his, and 
he certainly did so himself. The addresses followed the usual course 
pursued by Moody, whose influence on the young evangelist was very 
marked at this period, viz., Conviction of sin and the presenting of 
free and full salvation through the Atoning Sacrifice of the Cross. 
And then he pressed for immediate decision and absolute surrender to 
Christ as Lord. He broke new ground with his lecture to men, the 
burden of which was ‘“‘ Whatsoever a man soweth, that also shall he 
reap.” This was not all, however. Instinctively he recognized that 
the old life would reassert its power over the young convert unless 
new interests filled it. In his mother’s words, he sought to give them 
so much to do for the Lord that they had no time to work for the 
devil. Asa means to this end the home and foreign missions centreing 
in Harley House lay ready to his hand. He usually gave one lecture 
on it, demonstrating the joy of service, and urged all who took the place 
of believers to begin at once to work for the Master, wherever He should 
guide them. This also afforded his hearers an opportunity of making 
a thankoffering (as they almost always desired to do), which was 
devoted to the work of the Institute. His own reward was that of 
the Apostle Paul—“ Verily, that I might make the Gospel without 
charge,’’ his services as an evangelist being entirely gratuitous to the 
end of his life. 

Such were the outward conditions of his success. What of the 
inward preparations of the heart ? There the work was not less deep 
and strenuous, as the pages of his Australian journal bear witness. 
The influence of Moody and others is very marked throughout, and the 
following extracts are given simply to show the workings of his mind 
at the time. 


November 12, 1885: ‘‘ Put into practice the Creed, ‘I believe in 
the Holy Ghost,’ and therefore don’t try ever to either simply amuse. 


25 


LirE oF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


interest or arouse, as if you were going to do anything; but in full 
reliance and expectant faith, go for the hearts of your audience; by 
hymns and prayer and word, from the very outset, try and reach their 
inmost being. If you try to captivate them at first and reach the 
heart after, you may fail to do both the one and the other. 

“Back the addresses with faith and prayer. The latter will 
often save you from grave mistakes. You would not have told such 
and sucha story if you had prayed over it beforehand ! 

** Ask God what Hewants youtosay. Truthisnot enough—bare 
truth, but you must give out the truth that God gives. Our want of 
confidence, and lack of power and success, often comes from this point.* 
We had not got God’s particular message for the particular people. 
We give forth our own thoughts and God can’t bless us. . . 

““ Remember the order of your addresses in a Mission is of the 
highest importance. At Adelaide, I made the grave error of beginning 
on faith. Just as well expect to move the cold iron as invert God’s 
order of dealing with souls. Get them first into the fire of mental and 
moral conviction of sin, and fear of punishment, then lead on to faith 
in Christ. 

“Don’t call enquirers converts! And be not over-careful con- 
cerning the numbering of the hosts of Israel, or assuring any man 
that heissaved. Let the Lord do that. 

“Never merely oppose an infidel, etc., but preach Christ. Support 
your own foundation, but never enter the arena of cavil and sarcasm, 
thus degrading the truth. Seek to win them by real kindness. This 
they seldom experience, and cannot understand.” 

August 9, 1886: ‘“ Don’t judge others too readily. Perhaps God 
thinks more of their failure, after prolonged struggle, than of your 
partial success.” 


The following extracts shows that practice went hand in hand 
with theory here: 

November 23, 1884: “I am holding on to G. . . . Went to 
see him in Bank—we are praying for him. His words, ‘ Won't you 
try to save and raise me ?’ still ring in my ears.” 

—1885: “ The great gambler, given up by the Rev. . . ., but 
not by his wife or the Women’s Prayer Union—saved! Was coming 

* See Life of Henry Reed, pp. 78-9. 


26 


AUSTRALIAN MISSIONS. 


down with six shillings to pay rent ; met former companion, to whom 
he owed three shillings and who forced him to give it ; devil got in on 
him ; went and gambled the other three shillings to regain, and lost 
all. I gave him six shillings. He repaid it next day, and was so 
touched by the trust of the action that he trusted Christ.” 

August 19, 1886: ‘Let us 

“‘Raise the fallen, cheer the faint, 
Heal the sick and lead the blind.” 
Misunderstand not ; in any question of sin—out with the scourge of 
small cords—use the lash of righteous indignation as taught by John, 
and e’en the gentle Saviour, but BE CONSIDERATE.” 

May 15, 1888: “ To-day an old gentleman came to me wanting 
assurance. I found him to bea good, dear, old Christian with a bad 
liver! He had been twenty years in India and his trouble was 
palpably physical ! ”’ 


AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL (resumed). 

November 24, 1885, Ballarat: ‘‘ The Alfred Hall holds about 
three thousand, and is what R. T. Booth calls a paddock to speak 
in. ... Monday night several anxious, but none deciding. Master, 
help us! I had prayed much yesterday, several of us, and I expected 
great things. Oh, how we perhaps long for the great things instead 
of the glory of Jesus only. For crowds, not Christ. For signal 
success more than for souls. The Lord knows to drive us to our 
knees—to humble us, to perfect that which concerns us. Dear Mr. 
M. . . . gave me the words of Isaiah, ‘I never said unto Jacob, 
seek ye Me in vain.’ Lord, renew my strength—be Thou my Helper, 
How easy to rely on man, and man’s wisdom and arrangements, 
advertisements, etc. ? How difficult practically and completely to 
‘rest in the Lord.’ Mrs. R. . . . before I started, told me I should 
get much emptied this Mission, and the words are already true. But, 
Lord, please let self be replaced by Thyself, and weakness and empti- 
ness become Thine own opportunity to save. 

December 8 (conclusion of Mission) : 

“Even when my faith is small, 
Trusting Jesus, that is all.” 

‘‘ How He answers prayer. I have never before been in the midst 

of so much proportional blessing! Entirely beyond our deserts or 


27 


Lire oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


expectations. One hundred and one during the past four nights, 
and some such fine cases. At the Oval, away in the grand stand, and 
even in the reserve, they heard the address. Thank God for helping 
my voice and giving me bodily strength. About seven thousand to 
eight thousand there—the largest gathering I have ever addressed.” 


EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS. 
To A.R. 
Launceston, March 31, 1886: “‘ As to myself, I hold by the Book, 
and whatever it says, Isay. Belief, not speculation on our part . . . 
The great Book which is to be our Jife study . . . is God’s Book. The 
Master make us wise therein. . . . I am getting to feel that we fight 
against wicked spirits in high places (Eph vi. R.v.), and what a 
fight itis! None but Christ can make us stand.” 


Brisbane, July 6, 1886: “ At the close of my last lecture to men— 
I spoke about one hour and fifty minutes—they all rose to their 
feet spontaneously and shouted and cheered, and waved their hats and 
handkerchiefs, and cheered again, till I was quite ashamed! Iam to 
re-deliver it, please God, on my return from Brisbane, by the special 
request of the young men, and also of the Primate of Australia and 
Tasmania, Bishop Barry, who is to take the chair.” 

Brisbane, July 19, 1886: “‘ The enquirers are almost more than 
we can deal with. At least eight out of ten are men. Families are 
being saved, and many not only ‘ feel like singing all the time,’ but 
actually do so! Infidels, fighters, drunkards and moralists enquiring 
after Jesus, and Christians longing for holiness and power. Last 
Saturday one minister came up to me and said, ‘I feel after hearing 
you that my pipe is dishonouring the Son of God, and I shall trust Him 
to help me give it up from to-night.’ Hallelujah ! 

Brisbane, July 23, 1886: “I teach nothing now as conversion 
which does not mean actual experimental delivery from the power of 
the Evil One. Not sinless perfection, but Salvation from sin by One 
who is called Jesus for that very reason. 

**To see hundreds seeking Christ is enough to make any one 
shout Hallelujah!” . . 

Brisbane, August 4, 1886: “ My Lecture on the lifeand labours of 
my father was wonderfully appreciated by the dear Brisbane people. . 


28 


AUSTRALIAN MISSIONS. 


You should read some of the letters I received scores of, or go with 

me amongst the people before you could appreciate the intense affec- 

tion engendered through the Gospel of Jesus. I was never in such a 

meeting! Never! Before we knew where we were, it was getting 

on for one o’clock. . . . Everybody wanted to go right on to next 

day! and although the room was hot to suffocation, not one even 

yawned that I could see. It was simply glorious. It would require~ 
a little volume to tell you all I would like to of the various instances’ 
of deepest interest.” 

Adelaide, November, 1886: “In the evening I was at Silas 
Mead’s. . . . It was crammed, and we afterwards went to the 
Academy of Music, from which hundreds were being turnedaway. . . . 
The cricket team, under Shaw, which had just arrived in the Colonies, 
and which the day before had scored well against fifteen from South 
Australia, were there, and listened splendidly while I spoke from Job 
xxxvi. 18, . . . and nearly the whole audience stayed for the after 
meeting, others pressing in if any left the building.” 


From these ardent labours he returned to fresh work in England 
in January, 1887. He had become engaged just a year earlier to 
his hostess’s daughter, Miss Annie Reed, on the eve of her sailing 
for England, with the brother and sister he had come out to fetch. 
To her the foregoing letters were addressed, and two months after 
his return they were married in London on March 17th, 1887. But 
of this happy and providential union the history cannot here be 
written. His own comment at the time is the best. 


“Home prayers had mingled with many here, and the issue we 
believe, humbly and firmly is of God, and shall be to Him.” 


The Regions Beyond Missionary Union, and all connected with 
it, have reason to know how sound was this conviction on the part 
of the young couple, and how abundantly their union has been blessed. 

The marriage knot was tied by the Rev. Archibald Brown, of the 
East London Tabernacle, a dear friend and pastor. 

The wedding was witnessed by hundreds of happy and sympa- 
thising friends, rich and poor, in Mr. Charrington’s Great Assembly 
Hall, Mile End. The bride had already spent a year with her future 


29 


LIFE OF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


parents-in-law at Harley House, sharing all its activities in prepara- 
tion for the work that was henceforth to be hers, as wellas her husband’s. 

The wedding tour was spent in Egypt and the Holy Land, where 
memorable weeks were passed. They also visited Mrs. Grattan 
Guinness’s niece, Dora Fooks, then engaged in mission work at 
Damascus ; afterwards as the wife of John McKittrick, to be one of the 
pioneers of the Congo Balolo Mission. But a great trial overtook them. 
The young bride fell dangerously ill with typhoid fever, and had to be 
_ carried ashore at Smyrna, where anxious days were spent by her 
bedside in the Jews’ Hospital. Here mother and sister came out from 
England to help nurse her, and when, in response to earnest prayer, 
she was out of danger, her husband left her with them and visited 
Athens and Constantinople, returning to Smyrna to escort the party 
home. 

The letter subjoined relates one sequel of this sojourn in the 
Near East. Such stories might be multiplied on every page. 


To his wife: 

November 12, 1889, Sunderland: ‘ I have all sorts of 
interesting things to tell you. . . . First, a good meeting last 
night. . . . Secondly, a most interesting and blessed outcome of 
our Smyrna visit. At the Sailors’ Rest (Miss Grimstone’s) I spoke 
one evening, and a poor fellow named X . . . was converted to God. 
I have found out recently from his wife, who lives here, he was an awful 
drunkard and an abominable man. She had been separated from 
him for eight years and had almost thought him dead. When the 
Lord blessed him at Smyrna he had sunk down from a good position 
as engineer, to bea stoker or fire feeder on a big ship. Now they are 
re-united and happy. He isa true, consistent Christian, and she was 
saved last night. She told me that it was his influence over her that 
had drawn her to Jesus, and now she has herself made a start on the 
right way ! 

“Mother would be interested to hear of this case of blessing, 
and the more so as he was such a hopeless case ! ”’ 


Arriving in England, June, 1887, they at once took up work 
at Harley House, he as Honorary Secretary of the East London 
Training Institute for Home and Foreign Missions. His parents 


30 


AUSTRALIAN MISSIONS. 


retired to Cliff College, Derbyshire, an attack of facial paralysis having 
warned Mrs. Grattan Guinness that her strenuous labours of the last 
twenty-five years must berelaxed. She and her husband now devoted 
themselves (apart from the oversight of Cliff College) to bringing out 
two books on prophetic subjects, “‘ Romanism and the Reformation,” 
and “ Light for the Last Days.” They had already published The 
Approaching End of the Age, perhaps their best known work. 

In 1887 the missionary magazine, Regions Beyond, was begun, 
under the Editorship of Mrs. Grattan Guinness. 

The work of the Institute had now become very extensive, including 
the oversight of Harley College in London (with Doric Lodge for 
Deaconesses) and Cliff College, in Derbyshire, accommodating altogether 
about one hundred students; the obtaining of candidates for the Mission 
field and the selection of suitable ones from the large number who 
offered, and raising the necessary funds (for the Institute had no 
endowment and its founders no private means). It also included the 
supervision and partial support of Berger Mission Hall andits activities. 
The labour of administering all this was not what Harry Guinness 
would have chosen for himself, nor did it seem to be the work for which 
his most obvious talents fitted him. His chiefs and contemporaries 
at the London Hospital had predicted for him a brilliant career as a 
medical man ; his successes in Australia suggested that of an evan- 
gelist. However, at the moment he felt he owed it to his parents, 
whom he greatly loved and honoured, to relieve them in the work 
to which their powers were no longer equal. He had prayed much 
for guidance, and his mother’s letter to him at this critical moment in 
his life, shows the spirit in which his decision was made and accepted : 


From Mrs. H. GRATTAN GUINNESS. 

‘“‘ My own precious Son. 

“. ,. . . Weare glad you feel as you do about the changes 
needed at the Institute. ; 

“‘T have learned by experience that the call of God varies as we 
pass through life. What is a duty at one time becomes a folly, if not 
a sin, at another. For Elijah to have lingered in the wilderness by 
the brook Kedron, though God had sent him there—when he ought 
to appear before Ahab and Israel, would have been a terrible mistake. 
For Luther to have tried to continue his public ministry when the 


31 


LIFE oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


Lord wanted him to prepare in the Wartburg a German translation 
of His Word would have beena fatalfolly. Our timesare in His hands, 
and it is useless for us to say, Such and such shall be my career through 
life. Not without many a painful and disappointing exercise of heart 
did I learn this lesson! The blessed Master has every right to say to 
His servant, Go here or go there—do this or do that, and He saysit 
in many ways. The servant alone can hear the voice at times, though 
there are generally providential indications to confirm his impres- 
sion. 

“Dear father’s early experiences were your present ones, and 
even more marked. They were what yours will be for the next ten 
years, I trust. Then came a change, and for many years his work 
was that of a teacher rather than a preacher—and then came the 
Institute. . . . You know what practical work that has meant, 

but you do not yet fully know how completely dear father 
is now incapacitated by an overwhelming sense of the call of God 
in other directions for the management of the Institute. 
We are ‘ writing’ again, even now! and in these days of infidelity, 
not only in the lower, but in the upper classes, we feel it laid on us 
“to contend for the faith once delivered to the saints’ by writing as 


well as speaking. . . . A widespread and deep awakening 
is taking place all over England on the subject of Missions. The 
Institute ought to be enlarged, extended, improved. . . . The 


world’s need is tremendous, the time is short and the volunteers are 
many. There are two hundred and fifty millions of money hoarded 
every year in England, . . . surplus accumulations of rich and 
poor—in Banks—yet little more than one million is given to Missions ! 
But, above all, the time is short. We must not think only of what 
we can do ourselves, but of what we can do through others. Motive 
power is a great thing, and organizing power. You have fallen, my 
son, on very solemnly momentous days! God give you wisdom and 
grace to use your precious ten talents to the full. How best, we will 
pray over and talk over when you come. Oh how glad and thankful 
I shall be to have you to talk to! A man of action, of sociable 
disposition and popular sympathies. ; 

“Darling Father . . . you inherit from him all your best 
gifts, but you have also a touch of your mother in you that will make 
you doubly useful I hope. 


a 
to 


AUSTRALIAN MISSIONS. 


“We are all counting the days till you come. I am glad to hear 
you sometimes felt homesick! We felt son-sick I assure you. 
“Your own loving Mother, 
F. E. GuINNEss.” 


' Little wonder that the son who received this letter had written 
to his future wife some months earlier (August 23, 1886) ; 

“Darling mother, . . . Isn’t she sweet and powerful, and 
spiritual and wise? MY MOTHER. God bless her.” 


“This letter,” he wrote in later years, “ was to me ‘ the parting 
of the ways.’ I knew and felt it was the guidance of God. Not even 
for five minutes was I in doubt of this.” 

As already stated, this administrative work was not exactly what 
he would have chosen for himself. But he was willing to be guided, to be 
used just where God needed him, and looking back from the standpoint 
of his later achievements, we can see that in obeying the simple 
impulse of duty at this juncture, he was led into an immensely wider 
sphere than could have been otherwise possible. It opened the way 
for him to preach the Gospel in almost every part of the world, and, 
moreover, drew out abilities which might otherwise have lain un- 
suspected and unexercised all his life. Above all, its heavy responsi- 
bilities forced him into a constant dependence upon God, which told 
with inestimable effects upon his public ministry. 

The young secretary’s hands were very full. While he was still 
studying for his M.D. degree, he conducted the daily worship at the 
College, and personally saw much of the students, besides carrying 
on the heavy home and foreign correspondence, and frequently con- 
ducting Gospel Missions in various places. Some of these were among 
the most fruitful and successful of his whole life. During these 
necessary absences, then and ever afterwards, the direction was 
admirably carried on by his young wife. In July of this year they 
attended the Keswick Convention for the first time, at which he was 
in later years to be such a valued speaker. 

It was about this time that he first took up photography—then 
merely as a hobby ; but here the artistic side of his nature came into 
play, and the result has been seen in the wonderful pictures he took 
during his travels, notably on the Congo, in Peru, and finally in India, 
to illustrate Mission work. 


33 


LIFE OF HARRY GUINNESS. 


On his return to England, much work had been done in addressing 
the employees of large business houses in London, and in April, 1888, 
began the great Mission in Liverpool, which, asregards outward success, 
probably marked the climax of his career as an evangelist. The 
meetings were held in Hengler’s Circus, which was not only filled night 
after night with an eager and anxious throng, often of men only, but 
large overflow meetings of those who were unable to obtain admission 
were addressed by his mother, who came to his help. It is to this 
Mission that his friend, Mr. Irvine’s letter refers. (See appendix.) 

The Men’s Lecture took nearly two hours to deliver in its final 
form. In Exeter Hall, as in Australia and again in Glasgow, it pro- 
duced such an effect that hearers were carried out fainting. This 
Mission was followed by others in Ireland (Dublin, Cork) and Edin- 
burgh, and to Belfast in the following year. 

His friend, Dr. W. McAdam Eccles, says :—‘“‘ It was some years 
after he was qualified that he was asked to conduct an Evangelistic 
Mission at Devonshire House, Bishopsgate, for medical students, and 
it was then, and is now, well known that quite a number of men 
entered into that life which is everlasting through his ministration 
at that time.” 

It was, however, a critical moment in the young evangelist’s life. 
While the higher blessing of God was manifestly attending his labours, 
the lower blessing, which men call Fortune, had smiled upon him no 
less. He seemed to be realizing the promises of both dispensations. 
“‘ His delight is in the law of the Lord, and whatsoever he doeth shall 
prosper.” Friends, not the frivolous and worldly, it is true, but 
wealthy and in the best sense distinguished, welcomed him to their 
homes. He saw the gratification of every innocent taste and pleasure 
within his reach, and that without forsaking the work to which he 
was called, for these pursuits often gave him opportunities to reach 
and influence the still careless members of such families. He had 
learnt to be a skilful fisher of men. Once when a game of billiards 
was made to provide the opportunity, the question was asked, 
“Don’t young men resent that sort of thing ?”’ ‘‘ Not if you go the 
right way towork,”’ hereplied. ‘“ But what ¢stheright way to work ? ” 
“Well, Iconsider you’ve no right ever to put a man in an impossible 
position.”’ Such opportunities he loyally and tactfully used, but 
how easily it might have been otherwise! His music and singing 


34 


AUSTRALIAN MISSIONS. 


were admired ; shooting, hunting, fishing, rowing, every game and 
every sport in which he excelled, and the taste for which ran in his 
Irish veins, all were offered him without the asking, as he passed 
from one hospitable roof to another. Moreover, he was encircled 
in his Missions with an atmosphere of constant spiritual excitement— 
hallowed excitement, it is true, but hardly less dangerous on that 
account, and with an amount of popular and personal admiration, 
not to say adulation, which might have been the undoing of stronger 
characters than his. 

How did he surmount this crisis ? How did he keep so stead- 
fastly on his way, where so many have lost their bearings, or even 
made shipwreck ? What was the secret of security ? 

For there was a secret : too intimate, too sacred to reveal fully 
in these pages. It is inscribed in a series of letters written to the one 
who shared his inmost thoughts and aspirations, and dated from Ireland 
in September, 1888. The duty and necessity of sacrifice was laid upon 
his heart, and of personal self-denial in daily life. 


** How does our testimony tell ? Unless we know we are really 
right with God, our vocal testimony is weakened and destroyed. Not 
only is this the case, but the causes of this affect not only ourselves 
directly, but stumble others outside. 

“When we think of 
The condition of the heathen ; 
Christ’s second coming ; 
The possibilities of personal blessing and of blessing to others ; 
The possibility of losing all power if we do not yield to Him 
that striveth in us, and proving failures in life, instead of 
what God could make us ; 
It behoves us seriously to consider the matter. 
“WHAT CAN WE DO?” 


What they could do, and what they did do, was between them- 
selves and God. Suffice it to say that by the loyal co-operation of 
both, the sacrifice was made, that it was a real one, and that it proved 
to be not the affair of one supreme moment, but of a life-long endeavour, 
and by the grace of God the straight course was kept unto the end. 


35 


Lire oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


ToA.G:: 

Sunderland, November 4, 1889: “I have been thinking 
much to-day on the word ‘ God is faithful, who hath called us into 
the fellowship of His Son Jesus Christ.’ The very unchanging faith- 
fulness of Jehovah is at the back of Hiscall. What, then, is the surety 
of the possibility here and the certainty hereafter of the closest fellow- 
ship with Jesus? It may be here, I suppose, fellowship with His 
sufferings. . . . ‘Oh, what will presently be the fellowship with 
Him in glory !’ ” 


36 


CHAPTER III. 


THE CONGO EXPEDITION, 
1891-92. 


VER since 1877, when Henry Stanley’s explorations of the 
Congo basin were made public, the evangelization of those 
vast regions had strongly appealed to the circle centreing 
at the East London Missionary Institute, and the Living- 

stone Inland Mission had been founded there in 1878 by the joint 
exertions of Mrs. Grattan Guinness, Mr. Cory and other friends. 
Later on, however, the task proved too difficult and costly for their 
slender resources, and it was transferred in 1884 to the American 
Baptist Missionary Union. This Society concentrated its work on 
the Lower Congo, but some of its members—former students from 
Harley College—true to the house motto of Regions Beyond, longed 
to penetrate into the great interior. One, in particular, John 
McKittrick, had set his heart upon the evangelization of the populous 
Balolo nation, whom he had visited when he first went out to Africa 
in the vast horseshoe bend of the Congo between Equatorville and 
Stanley Falls, eight hundred miles from the coast. The interest aroused 
on his return to England in May, 1888, with a Christian Balolo boy 
named Bompoli, resulted in the starting of the Congo Balolo Mission, 
Dr. Harry Guinness, as Secretary, being its founder, as an actual under- 
taking, and John McKittrick its initiator and leader. This proved 
to be the beginning of the process which inevitably led the Institute 
into the responsibilities of a Missionary Society. Asregards funds, the 
late Mr. T. A. Denny had said, on hearing of the proposed undertaking, 
‘Harry, I should like to give that football a kick,” and wrote out a 
cheque for £800, which really gave it the first start. 


37 


LIFE oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


The year 1889-1890 formed a memorable missionary epoch. It 
was marked by the death of Mackay, of Uganda, which attracted 
general attention to events taking place there, by the publication of 
Stanley’s “‘ Darkest Africa,’”’ by the Brussels Conference of the Powers 
to restrict slavery in Africa, by the great challenge to the Christian 
conscience of the opium traffic in China and the drink traffic in Africa, 
by the British South African Company’s opening up of Rhodesia, 
and by Graham Wilmot Brooke’s expedition to the Sudan in the 
interests of the Church Missionary Society. In later years, Dr. Harry 
Guinness used to quote a saying of the late Prince Consort, “‘ Gentle- 
men, find out the will of God for your day and generation, and then 
as quickly as possible, get into line.’ This was emphatically the 
principle he had seen acted upon in his own family. It must be said, 
however, that the Guinnesses, who were not definitely identified with 
any denominational interests, sought not so much to get into line with 
others, as into the line of God’s will for themselves, and they have 
sometimes been reproached for starting independent enterprises for 
others to take up. But instead of a reproach this should be counted 
to their honour. They strove to follow the Apostle Paul and preach 
Christ ‘‘ not where He was named.” True, they were free lances. 
But so washe. “An apostle, not of men, neither by men, but by 
Jesus Christ and God the Father, Who raised Him from the dead.”’ 

The great missionary enterprises of the Nineteenth Century owe 
more than can ever be known to those often obscure and lowly pioneers 
who 


Split in a thousand detachments, 
Were breaking the ground for the rest. 


And among these, the fifteen hundred men and women sent out 
from Harley House have played no small part. In some cases 
‘‘others have entered into their labours.” The Congo Balolo 
Mission, however, has remained in the hands of the Regions Beyond 
Missionary Union since its inception. 

On February 28, 1889, John McKittrick was united to Mrs. 
Guinness’s niece, Dora Fooks. Most of those whoassembled onthishappy 
and momentous occasion—the late Lord Radstock, Graham Wilmot 
Brooke, Captain Hore of Tanganyika, Frederick Stanley Arnot, Peter 
Whytock, Gustav Haupt, besides the home circle, Mr. and Mrs. Grattan 


38 


THE Conco EXPEDITION. 


Guinness, and Lucy Guinness Kumm, have already entered into rest 
after strenuous lives “‘ blazed out for God.” 

The party, seven in number, left on April 18th, arriving a month 
later at the mouth of the Congo. After an arduous journey, much 
of it-made on foot, they reached their destination and before long 
four stations were founded, Ikau, Lulanga, Bonginda and Bongan- 
danga. During the next two years Dr. Harry Guinness threw himself 
wholeheartedly into the interests of the work, pleading for it in his 
numerous missions (referred to in the foregoing chapter). It was 
now that he began to use the splendid lantern linked so inseparably 
with his memory, by the help of his faithful operator Sambridge. 
He took a special pleasure in equipping and sending out the “* Pioneer,” 
a little vessel of twenty-three tons and about sixty feet long, which the 
missionaries required for navigating the small tributaries around. 
It was largely the gift of the Y.M.C.A’s of Ireland, especally 
Belfast. 

Dr. Guinness was also attracted to the study of tropical diseases. 
During this year a sadly interesting visitor came to Harley House— 
a young Christian from the Congo, named Mandombi, who was a 
victim to the sleeping sickness. In order to benefit his own people 
he had come at his own expense to England, knowing he could not live 
to return, in order that the English doctors, by studying his case, 
might perhaps find out its cause and cure. 

The sleeping sickness, however, was not the only problem that 
presented itself, and it was settled that as soon as Dr. Harry Guinness 
had taken his M.D. degree in Brussels (which he passed with honours 
in January, 1891), he should himself visit the Congo Balolo mission- 
aries, and report on the possibilities of the situation. With his wife 
he sailed for Teneriffe on March 19, she going on to visit her home in 
Tasmania with her two children, he to the Congo by way of Madeira, 
a hard farewell for both. In Madeira and on board the Dutch steamer 
which brought him to the Congo, he let slip no opportunity of bearing 
witness to his Master both publicly and privately, and Bible Readings 
with passengers were held almost daily, sometimes attended by the 
ship’s officers. Although he was a very bad sailor, he could always 
pull himself together for preaching, often only to collapse afterwards. 
In calm weather, however, he would be the life and soul of passenger 
life on board. 


39 


Lire oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


The Congo mouth was reached on May 5th, and passing through 
various stations of the American Baptist Missionary Union (which 
had taken over the Livingstone Inland Mission, initiated by Mrs. 
Grattan Guinness in 1878), he came to Banza Manteke. Here, a 
remarkable work had arisen under the missionary in charge, Mr. 
Timothy Richard, a former student of Harley House, and here, too, 
he met many old friends, both black and white. All his life Dr. 
Guinness felt acutely the constant separations necessitated by his work. 
His nature was affectionate and constant, and by no means self- 
sufficing, and the special perils and risks which he knew this journey 
involved had made the parting from home specially painful. But 
the Divine promise was made good to him as to all who forsake wife 
and children “‘ for My sake and the Gospel’s,” and he wrote himself : 


May 26, 1891 :—‘‘ The blessed freemasonry which exists between 
those who love the Common Saviour is a wonderful thing. The name 
of ‘ Jesus ’ is sufficient to make these dark facesshine! I feel infinitely 
more one with them than with many an educated worldling! Poor 
Mandombi, on his first arrival in London, came to me across my study 
with beaming face and with the sweet salutation, ‘ My brother in 
Jesus.’ I could not help the tears starting to my eyes at the time. 
Yes, brave Mandombi, ‘ brothers’ thank God, through Jesus. Here 
Iam in Mandombi’s home. Here I have met with hundreds who love 
the same Saviour and share the same feeling. Hereaway in benighted 
Africa, severed from the ‘great congregation’ I feel more keenly 
even than at home the comfort and joy of the one great brotherhood.” 


July 21 found him at the first Congo Balolo Station, Lulanga, 
at the junction of the Lopori River with the Upper Congo, eight 
hundred miles inland, and the next day at Bonginda he rejoined the 
McKittricks, with whom he was linked not only by relationship, but by 
a bond of deep affection. Preparations were at once made by himself 
and John McKittrick for two journeys, one to the North and one 
towards the South, to find out the limits of the Balolo tribe and the 
future possibilities of expansion for the Mission. Both regions were 
unexplored, and the Northern was known to be inhabited by a fierce 
tribe called N’gombe, who were addicted to a peculiarly atrocious 
form of cannibalism. They intended, on their return from the second 


40 


THE ConGco EXPEDITION. 


of these journeys, to rejoin Mrs. McKittrick and travel with her up 
the Congo to Stanley Falls, after visiting the great State Government 
Station of Bangala. 

Such was the programme, but events fell out very differently 
from expectations. The two started on foot from the newly opened 
station of Bongandanga with native carriers. This first journey 
began on August 22, and it proved to be one prolonged adventure. 
Within three days the whole party narrowly missed being massacred 
in a cannibal village, from which they had great difficulty in making 
good their escape, pursued all day by these bloodthirsty and treache- 
rous savages. The following letters (much condensed) give Dr. 
Guinness’s own account of this experience : 


IN PERILS BY THE HEATHEN. 
August 22, 1891. 

“* Our first stopping place had already been visited by Mr. Scarnell 
and Mr. Whytock at different times, and we were thus assured of a 
good reception. ; 

*“* As we drew near the clearing in which Bosi Dikolo lay, perfect 
silence was preserved by our men so as not to frighten the N’gombe by 
fear of invasion. At last the guide called out to tell them of our 
arrival. Friendly voices responded, and we soon found ourselves 
outside the town with its moat and stockade. Slowly filing over one 
of the drawbridges, we passed through a cleverly constructed gate to 
find ourselves in the midst of a well-disposed people, with strangely 
marked faces and a new language, who crowded round the white men 
with cries of welcome. We soon told them by translation our object 
in coming and we were immediately accorded accommodation in the 
chief’s cook-house. 

“ After spending a second night with these good people, and 
breakfasting before the usual crowd, a great ‘ palaver’ was called, 
which was of a most exciting nature. After the king’s minister had 
brought forward the ‘ dash,’ which included plantains, fowls and a 
goat, he made an oration representing the good-will of all concerned, 
enumerating the items presented to us, and expressing the hope that 
an old war palaver with some adjoining N’gombe might be peaceably 
settled by a visit from us, as they were only too glad to accept arbitra- 
tion even should the loss betheirs.” . . ° 


41 


Lire OF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


The travellers accordingly went on to the neighbouring village, 
Bongwongo, about six hours further on, bearing friendly messages 
from the one they had just left, and expecting a similar palaver. 


** At 1.45 p.m. we emerged in another clearing, where Bongwongo 
is situated. We proceeded to the palisade-protected enclosure in 
absolute silence, so as not in any way to frighten the folk by the appear- 
ance of our little expedition. On this occasion, however, we had no 
friendly voice to announce our advent, and were, of course, very un- 
certain as to our reception. 

‘« How little we anticipated the experiences that were to follow ! 
As I sit here back at Bongandanga, my flesh creeps to think of the 
hours that then lay before us. Had not ‘the Angel of the Lord 
encamped round about us’ in those moments of peril, my hand would 
certainly never have penned these lines. 

“‘ When we reached the enclosure, we found the gate shut and heard 
the unmistakable war-cry within! Mr. McKittrick soon leaped on to 
the roof of a house, and shouted out that we were come on a peaceful 
errand, whilst a number of us passed through an open space, that 
separated the houses into a kind of wide street three hundred yards 
long. The moment I could take in the situation, I saw it was one of 
critical danger. A scout had evidently warned them of our advent, 
the women had fled to the wood, and the men, painted in hideous 
guise for the battle, and armed with spears and shield, presented a 
horrible spectacle. Bateko and an old N’gombe man ran towards 
them, gesticulating wildly, to show our pacific intentions, whilst Mr. 
McKittrick and myself advanced towards them absolutely unarmed. 
We made our men keep in the background, and eventually when we 
got to within forty yards of the spears of the dancing demons, we sat 
down before them and awaited the issue. They were so astonished 
at our behaviour that they did not kill us on the spot, as they could 
have done with the greatest ease, but, maintaining their threatening 
attitudes, and waving their spears with horrid cries, they advanced 
quite close to us. 

‘‘Bateko cried out, ‘See, I am unarmed; I come for peace, not 
war!’ whilst the old N’gombe man, with equal intrepidity, jumped 
repeatedly over his spear, which was an oath of friendliness, and then 
throwing it on the ground, took some leaves and stuck them on the 


42 


THE CONGO EXPEDITION. 


point, which was tantamount to saying, ‘ May I be killed with this 
spear if we preserve not the peace.’ 


“Tt was a terriblemoment ; a bright executing knife flashed in the 
sunshine close by the old man’s head. We thought he was wounded, 
and that furious vengeance would be poured upon us; but we sat 
perfectly still, and were, thank God, absolutely composed and fearless, 
That word became true to usin the moment of jeopardy, ‘ He delivered 
them from all their fears.’ After half an hour of suspense, the storm 
began gradually to abate, and eventually some of the painted warriors 
themselves came and shook hands with us, carrying, however, their 
shields and spearsallthe while . . . At length, when we thought 
that peace was fairly established, we were suddenly surprised, when the 
big man gave a shout, and all his men at once fell back into line and 
again grasped their spears and shields. What had taken place ? 
What was the matter ? One of the N’gombe with us had said some 
unadvised word, and the storm was round us once more. There was 
nothing for it but to face it. Mr. McKittrick and I put our chairs 
in the open, in front of the house, and sat us downas before. It wasa 
trying time, far more than I can tell, or you understand; a cruel 
death threatened us again at every instant, and these poor savages, 
who supposed at first that we were ‘ Bula Matadi,’ and were very 
frightened at our advent, worked themselves up into such a state of 
ungovernable fury as to be almost beside themselves. One spear cast 
would have settled the fate of the whole band, but the ‘ shadow of the 
Almighty ’ was round about us, so that we were preserved. 


‘“‘A lull in the commotion of feelings came, however, and we once 
more settled down to a few moments of respite. They then held a 
private palaver at the lower end of the long enclosure, to which they 
summoned the N’gombe man. 


“Left to ourselves, we consulted together over thesituation. I 
took to bed, with a slight fever, whilst Mr. McKittrick spoke now to 
me, now to Bateko and the men. Things were very unsatisfactory. 
The women had not returned from the bush, although the men had 
been specially asked about this well-recognized sign of peace. The 
chief had never yet presented himself to view, which he would certainly 
have done had all beenright. And lastly, one of our men was missing ! 


“« What was to be done ? 


43 


LiFE OF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


‘*The old N’gombe man had gone to sleep with the chief asa sign 
of friendly confidence, and he had promised us that should anything 
serious transpire in the night, he would give us warning if possible. 
Armed neutrality was preserved all night, and when through the misty 
morning, about 5 o’clock, the old man came to tell us that the enemy 
had decided to surround us, kill all the men, and tie up the white men, 
we felt it would be madness to delay another moment. Sadly 
abandoning our attempt at further pacification of foes who had proved 
themselves so treacherous, we silently put our boxes together, and at 
5.30 commenced to beat a retreat towards the wood. The enclosure 
seemed strangely deserted, and we found that only a few sentinels 
were left, whilst the whole district was being massed together beyond 
in preparation for their attack. In the drizzly grey of early dawn 
we managed to give them the slip, not before shouts of challenge 
came from the lower end of the town. We plunged rapidly into the 
dark forest, pushing forward with a speed altogether new as far as the 
natives were concerned. Mr. McKittrick and I brought up the rear, 
now armed with our rifles, incase of emergency. Scarcely had we gone 
five minutes, when behind us we heard, a few yards off in the bush, 
the terrible yells of the pursuing N’gombe. For a moment we were 
paralysed, but instantly we discharged three rapid shots in succession, 
then loaded again as we kept up as well as possible with our poor 
fugitives. Silence followed, only disturbed by the splashing of the 
water in which we had sometimes to wade half thigh-deep. Half an 
hour passed, and we commenced to think that we were safe, when 
suddenly the same cries resounded in our ears. Again our guns made 
answer, the reverberation, confined by the overarching trees, tem- 
porarily frightening the howling wolves behind. So quickly have we 
gone that we are rapidly drawing nearer to the confines of Bosi Dikolo ; 
and now, in response to the advance section of our retreating band, 
help comes through the forest glades, and in a few minutes we are 
well over the moat and behind the palisades, in company with our good 
friends in whose interest we had gone forth. 

** Of course, a big palaver was summoned, and Bosi Dikolo wore a 
very different aspect from that which before we had seen. The men 
were all armed for war, and terribly excited at the treatment we had 
received. Tomakea long story short, werapidly changed our drenched 
garments, had some food, and started away for the river, first telling 


44 


THE CONGO EXPEDITION. 


the good people whose cause we had failed to help, that it was now the 
affair of the State to settle. The N’gombe had actually confessed 
that the day before our arrival they had poisoned a woman, and I 
have no doubt that an evil conscience, burdened by many a murder, 
feared in our advent that just retribution which now they will doubt- 
less receive. 

“Soall were safeand sound, and none even wounded on either side. 
The mountain was full of the chariots of God, and we were as those 
whose eyes had been opened. ‘ Praise the Lord, O my soul.’”’ 


Once safe at Bongandanga, however, nothing daunted, they 
started again on foot (Aug. 29) on their southward expedition, 
but this journey also had to be given up within a few days, as they 
found the whole district was at war. 

Dr. Harry again fell ill with fever, but eventually they rejoined 
Mrs. McKittrick at Bonginda on September 6th, and all three went 
on to Bangala. Here the illness of Mr. McKittrick compelled 
them to bring him back to his own station. Letters and, of course, 
cable messages took months toreachthecoast. The nearest telegraph 
station was the Isle of St. Thomé, Gulf of Guinea. On January 29th 
the household at Harley House were stunned to receive a telegram 
as follows : 


“John McKittrick died November 22nd. Luff died — 
December 19th. Dora and self returning.—Guinness.”’ 


John McKittrick was an Irish saint. He had the true qualities 
of the pioneer, though there was nothing in him of the rock-smiter, 
(Bula Matadi, the native name given to Stanley, and afterwards to 
the State Authority). He was patient, loving and beloved, and 
could win his way by gentleness where force would fail. Few men 
have been more deeply mourned than he. 

Dr. Guinness wrote :—‘‘ Dear McKittrick has gone to his eternal 
reward . . . He has won the martyr’s crown. We buried 
him next day close by his house and close also to the chapel in which 
he had so often told out the old, oldstory. There are beautiful flowers 
to deck his tomb—flowers of young hearts opened out to Jesus, young 
lives given to Him. 


45 


LIFE OF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


“We could not but rejoice the next day, in spite of all our grief 
as we baptized the first five converts of the Balolo Mission, 
and weep over the twenty-five others awaiting immersion, to think of 
the joy in the presence of the angels of God, joy in which our a 
brother must surely share.”’ 

And how had these young converts been brought to decision? One 
had sown, another had watered, and God gavetheincrease. “Evening 
came,” wrote Mrs. McKittrick, of her cousin’s arrival at their station, 
“and the boys, as usual, gathered in my sitting room. Dr. Guinness 
spoke by interpretation, and afterwards asked any who were desirous to 
follow Jesus to stand up. At once four of the big boys stood up and 
we prayed for them by name.” This was the beginning of a movement 
among all the lads of the station, and before he was taken to his reward 
John McKittrick had the joy of knowing that his labour had not been 
in vain. 

Immediately after the baptisms above recorded, Dr. Guinness 
started for home with his young widowed cousin, and another 
missionary, the Mr. Luff mentioned above. 

On December 31 he wrote from N’gombe, Stanley Pool: ‘‘ How 
to tell you the sad news I know not. I am almost like the servant 
of Job who alone escaped to tell the sad story. Alas! I am the only 
one who can tell, for of our little group of three returning home after 
the sad blow which our beloved Mission sustained in the death of its 
brave leader, one is not, and one is sick nigh unto death. . . . 
It may be that dear Mrs. McKittrick will pull through by God’s 
goodness, that prayers ceaselessly ascending here and at home will 
receive their answer, but I am afraid that when I have next to write 
I may have tidings of sorrow upon sorrow.” 

A few days later he was himself stricken down by the same 
dreadful disease (hematuric fever), but the prayers were answered, 
and both returned safely within a week of each other, on March 20 
and 27, 1892. Almost directly after their arrival, however, first 
one and then another again fell ill with hematuria, and it was not till 
May the 4th that the Welcome Meeting could be held. It was a 
double welcome, for his sister Geraldine had returned from China on 
April 25. But while all hearts were full of thankfulness, they were 
full of sorrow, too; sorrow for the past bereavements and for the 
serious illness of the beloved Mother of the Congo, Mrs. Guinness, 


46 


THE CONGO EXPEDITION. 


who had been seized with a paralytic stroke on February 29, and 
though somewhat recovering was unable to be present at any public 
rejoicing 

Dr. Guinness’s letters and diaries throughout this journey are 
remarkable for the acuteness of his observations and the graphic force 
with which he recorded them both by pen and camera, and still more 
so for the way in which spiritual interests and purposes were ever kept 
uppermost. He also wrote long letters about the sleeping sickness 
to Dr. (now Sir) Patrick Manson, who so appreciated them that 
he wrote to Mrs. Grattan Guinness that her son would not have lived 
in vain (1.e., if he had not returned alive). Asto transport, provisions, 
housing and other practical matters, much valuable material was 
collected with a view to settling on his return the lines on which the 
Mission could best be carried on. 

Since then the Congo Balolo Mission has passed through many 
vicissitudes. To-day it possesses nine stations; a staff of forty-one 
missionaries (including both men and women). The number of 
communicants is still not large, but figures cannot represent the 
influence of these centres of light in the surrounding darkness. All 
this ground, however, has been won at the cost of precious lives, of 
which no less than thirty-eight have been laid down on the Congo in 
this Mission alone. As one of their number, Gustav Haupt wrote, 
they were to be “‘ BURIED STonEs ”’ for the future building of God. 


CHAPTER IV. 


HOME WORK AND THE REGIONS BEYOND 


MISSIONARY UNION, 
1892-97. 


E Congo journey had two immediate sequels. The first was 
: the establishment of a Swedish auxiliary in July, 1892 
(several Swedish students of Harley House, notably M. 
Sjobl6m and M. Westlind, having done excellent work on 
the Congo). The second was the founding in the following December 
of the Regions Beyond Helpers’ Union. 
Already in 1888, Dr. Harry Guinness had written to his wife: 
** My scheme and Lucy’s is about a great Regions Beyond Missionary 
Union, a systematic organisation—of which more when we meet.” 
This scheme was never lost sight of, and in January, 1899, all the 
branches of work at Harley House under his direction were united 
as THE REGIONS BEYOND Missionary UNION, for which the Helpers’ 
Union had paved the way. 


The Recions BEyonp HELPERS’ UNION (R.B.H.U.) pledged 

each member by the help of God to: 
(1) Prayer (2) Study (3) Effort 

on behalf of Foreign Missions. The minimum of effort was repre- 
sented by ‘“‘ Carey’s Weekly Penny ’’—the standard of giving to 
Missionary work set up by Carey in 1792. Every member took the 
Missionary box, which was cleverly planned and coloured to show in 
sections the proportion of Christians to Heathen in the world. 

A card, printed with the name of an unevangelized region of the 
world for every day of the month, formed the textbook both for 


48 


HoME WorK AND THE R.B.M.U. 


prayer and study. The pages of “‘ Regions Beyond” for the next 
few years teem with valuable studies of mission work in various lands, 
and with articles by such authorities as Dr. Eugene Stock, Dr. John 
Mott, Dr. W. McAdam Eccles (on Medical Missions), Dr. Angus, Rev. 
A. G. Brown, Miss C. Gordon Cumming, Graham Wilmot Brooke, 
Dr. A. J. Gordon (of Boston), Dr. Mabie and many others. 

It will thus be seen that the founders of the Helpers’ Union by 
no means intended to limit its scope to the Harley House Missions. 
They desired to arouse interest in a// mission work actually being 
done, and (from that starting-point) to show the need of further 
advance. Thus was formed a vast Missionary Study Circle— 
questions were set, examinations conducted and prizes offered. What 
his sister Lucy did to impart this missionary education by means of 
pen and picture in the pages of “‘ Regions Beyond” Dr. Harry 
Guinness sought to accomplish by tongue and camera at first in the 
British Isles, and then by degrees in many far off lands, especially 
Australasia. His talent for Magic Lantern Lectures really amounted 
to genius, seconded as he was by his faithful operator, Sambridge. 

Perhaps few of us have realized the burning activity of missions 
during those ten years, 1890-1900, after the opening up of Africa by 
Stanley and others, not in Africa only, but in China, India, Japan, and 
among the Aborigines of Northand South America. Most of the pioneer 
undertakings of the ’eighties had by that time overcome the initial 
stage, and were witnessing year by year the formation of Christian ~ 
communities among the darkest heathen at a rate which fills the 
chronicler with amazement when he realizes the difficulties to be over- 
come, and the slenderness of the resources in men and money. Doors 
which might soon be closed were opening in all directions. The 
leaders in every enterprise were shouting to the rank and file to enter 
the breaches they had made and seize the strongholds, before the 
enemy had time to rally his forces. That activity had to be sustained 
by the prayers and gifts of those at home. Consequently, there was 
an outburst previously unknown of missionary literature and lectures ; 
of endeavours in every direction to popularise the subject. To their 
success the Regions Beyond Helpers’ Union and its magazine, cer- 
tainly contributed largely, as did also one of the most important 
features of the college life—the Friday Prayer Meeting, open to all- 
comers, which was begun in 1887—and continued till the disbanding 


49 


LIFE OF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


of the College on the outbreak of war in 1914. Addresses would be 
given by passing visitors, often leading Christian workers or world- 
wide preachers, by old students on furlough, or young ones departing, 
but united prayer always occupied the chief part of the time. 

The Missionary cause presented itself as the one heroic enter- 
prise of a luxurious and frivolous age. What wonder that it attracted 
so many of the finest spirits of the day? Their various efforts 
eventually focussed themselves in the great Student Volunteer Con- 
ference at Liverpool in 1896, representing twenty-three nationalities, 
taking as its battle-cry, ‘Make Jesus King,” and as its watchword 
(launched the following year) , “The Evangelization of the World in 
this generation.’”’ Doubtless it challenged the great usurper’s lordship 
of this world and provoked his counter-attack in the Chinese massacres 
of 1900. These things are well known, but to estimate the value of 
Dr. Harry Guinness’s work and his sister’s one must view it in relation 
tothat of others. Though they had many friends in University circles, 
their special sphere of influence lay rather among those unreached by 
the Student Volunteers. They brought an ideal and a purpose into 
thousands of lives, otherwise narrow and monotonous, opened to them 
new horizons, and inspired them with their own unconquerable hope 
and joy in God and in the certain accomplishment of His Divine 
purposes.—‘“‘ Having made peace by the blood of His Cross, by Him to 
reconcile all things unto Himself” (Col. i. 20). Of Dr. Guinness 
especially it can be said that few ever left his presence discouraged. 
He showed to each that Christ wanted him or her for His service, that 
there was always a place in His ranks which no other could fill, and 
pointed out just where their help would tell. Moreover, wherever he 
passed, he seemed to absorb like a live wire all the good and Godward 
impulses of those he met and to radiate their light abroad, to ripen new 
purposes. 

Thus the Regions Beyond Helpers’ Union has been a source of 
untold blessing and enriching to its members, and has sent not a few into 
the mission field. Afterwards, it was much extended by the labours of 
the late Mr. Whytock in Scotland and of Mr. E. A. Talbot in England 
as organizing secretaries. In 1908 the membership already numbered 
8,000. The Carey boxes now bring in £4,000 yearly, and in fifteen years 
have brought in over £50,000, one collector sending in over £45 yearly. 
Flourishing auxiliaries have also been formed in Canada and Australia. 


50 


HomMeE WorK AND THE R.B.M.U. 


During these ten years, 1890-1900, the large family circle that had 
carried on the work of Harley House gradually broke up. The 
mother had become a permanent invalid, though still the heart and 
centre of the home at Cliff. The young cousins were married to 
missionaries, one in India and one on the Congo. The elder sister, 
Geraldine, and the younger brother, Dr. Whitfield Guinness, had joined 
the China Inland Mission. Dr. Grattan Guinness, senior (who had 
now received the D.D. from an American University) left England in 
1896 with his daughter Lucy for a preaching tour in India and the Far 
East. Thus the whole responsibility for the carrying on of the ever- 
extending work of the Institute rested on the young secretary and his 
wife. To the branches named on page 31 had now been added the 
Nurses’ Training Home in the old panelled house of Bromley Hall, 
which, till it was closed in 1913, brought practical help to its poorest 
neighbours, and sent many a skilled worker to save lives in the foreign 
field. In 1895 Mrs. Harry Guinness opened a Home for the little 
children of Missionariesabroad. Laterinthesame year, an interesting 
journey was imposed by the death of a friend in Serbia, Mr. F. H. 
Mackenzie. He bequeathed his fortune to Dr. Harry Guinness, to be 
used at his discretion, and the latter had to travel out to the Balkans 
in order to get the will proved. The money and property was, of 
course, allapplied to Home and Foreign Mission work, part being given 
for benevolent purposes in Serbia and elsewhere, as directed in a . 
covering letter, and part used for different new efforts and buildings. 
The Mackenzie Medical Mission, connected with Berger Hall Chapel, 
in Bromley-by-Bow, commemorates this bequest. 

During the Summer vacation, Cliff College had been thrown 
open to visitors, and for many years it was the happy meeting ground 
of many Christian friends. Here Dr. Harry Guinness’ social giits, 
like his mother’s, found full scope. One friend writes : 

“* My recollection of Harry will always be that of my earliest 
youth, when I had seen so many dear, good men who wererather ‘ soft ’ 
Harry was an ideal good man, strong in every way. In the good old 
Cliff days he stood out as such a healthy influence.” 

To sustain and administer these various efforts entailed much 
correspondence and much travelling. This deputation work he 
carried on to the end of his life throughout England, Scotland, 
and Ireland, alternating with longer expeditions—two to Central 


51 


LiFE oF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


Africa, three to South America, two to Australasia, and one to 
India, the intervals being occupied by superintendence of the home 
work. 

Lectures on Christian Evidences had from the first been a feature 
of his missions, and in the course of 1896 he addressed two meetings 
in Victoria Park, Hackney, on Sunday afternoons, in which he and 
others endeavoured to stem the torrent of secularism poured out there 
week after week by infidel leaders. This led to the formation of the 
Victoria Park Christian Evidence Society, which found in him as its 
President, a frequent and effective speaker, and one who could win 
and keep the ear of that very critical person, the East-end working 
man. Touching tributes also testify how much he was beloved 
by poor working women, who found in him an ideal of chivalry and 
strength all toorare in their experience. The following sketch, written 
by a friend at the time, gives a picture of him in his. most familiar 
surroundings. 


October 3, 1900.—‘‘ Yesterday I went to a meeting at Canning 
Town. Dr. Harry has been conducting a ten days’ Mission there, 
and this was the last day . . . At the door as we came out, a 
Jewish lady came up to him, she was converted during his Mission last 
year. She said, ‘To-morrow is the Day of Atonement.’ Dr. 
Guinness said, ‘ Well, we know Who has made the Atonement now.’ 
She said, ‘ Yes, indeed, but we must be praying for our people: they 
are all praying to-morrow.’ She then introduced her son. Dr. H. 
asked how oldhe was. Hereplied, ‘ Nineteen to-day.’ ‘ Why, it’s my 
birthday too,’ said the Doctor, ‘I’m thirty-nine.’ In the train Dr. 
Harry suddenly said, ‘ I’ve had another birthday present to-night,’ 
and from his pocket he produced a carving knife, old and worn, but 
sharp, done up in a kind of sheath of pink paper, tied round with 
bootlaces. ‘ The woman who gave me this has been carrying it about 
for four years, to kill another woman with. She told me she had fully 
made up her mind to ‘ swing for it.’’’ Poor thing ; her husband had 
deserted her for this woman four years ago and left her to struggle 
for her living with two children. For four years she had been seeking 
her revenge, watching outside theatres and lodging houses and, alas ! 
inside public houses, to stab her, but over and over again just missed 
her opportunity. She was converted during the Mission—an 


52 


HoME WoRK AND THE R.B.M.U. 


utterly ignorant woman, and now she said, ‘‘ Sir, I’ve given that 
woman to Jesus, and to show you I mean it, I give this knife to 
you.” 

_ “This woman had an unusual story; she was most rough and 
degraded,anddrank. ‘ My father was an Atheist,’ she said ‘I never 
went to Church or Sunday School, or read the Bible either. I don’t 
know anything about Christianity. I once went to listen to the 
Methodists when I was a girl,and my father whacked me for it, so I 
didn’t want no more of the Methodists. My father died unbelieving, 
my mother, too; when she was just dying, she called me and said, 
“Look here, my girl, you know people have come knocking at our door 
wanting to sing hymns and read the Bible, and I wouldn’t let one of 
*em in. You know what your father thought of religion and that’s 
how he died, and that’s how I am dying too—won’t have anything to 
do with it ; and you’d better die the same way.”’ And with that she 
turned her face to the wall.’ 

“«What made you come to the Mission then ?’ asked Dr. Harry 
_ (this was the first night). 

“* Why,’ she said, ‘I was ward-maid at the London Hospital 
when you were a student, and I used to watch you, and I saw there was 
something about you different from the others, and I took an interest 
in you. So when I saw on the placards you were going to speak, I 
thought I’d come and listen, and I’m coming every night, though I . 
don’t believe in a God and you can’t make me.’ 

“One night, however, Dr. Guinness had a bad cold and lost his 
voice, and he had to send a substitute to preach. Next time he went 
he saw this woman looking radiant. ‘Why, Doctor,’ she said, 
‘I’m quite different now; I believe there’s a God, I’m trusting in 
Jesus ; I’m converted.’ 

“*¢ How is that ?’ he asked. She said, ‘It was the night you 
couldn’t come, and another gentleman preached. I didn’t believe in 
God before, and you couldn’t have made me, but now I do. I’m 
converted.’ 

“ Seeing how utterly ignorant she was, Dr. Guinness said: ‘ Well, 
but what about your drinking . . . and your dear little children. 
I’ve no doubt you send them to the public house for your drink ; 
are you going to let that goon?’ She looked up quite surprised and 
said, ‘ Think it’ll hurt them, sir? Well, if it does, that shall go; I 


53 


LIFE oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


mean it ; but mind you, whether I do or don’t (give up drink), I’m 


MBs 


converted. Ido believe in Jesus.’ 


This woman’s conversion was genuine. From that time she gave 
up drink and led a true Christian life in the same neighbourhood. The 
carving knife is still in the possession of the family—a trophy of grace. 

Two things stand out from this narrative; one the fact that it 
was his life as a boy student that had first impressed this poor, ignorant 
woman ; secondly, that he artlessly and delightedly made known that 
it was not himself, but another who had actually brought her intothe 
Light. This readiness to appreciate the value of others’ work was a 
very marked trait in his character and doubtless had much to do with 
the hearty co-operation he nearly always secured. The other side of 
this quality was, that he not infrequently thought too highly of 
people at first, and had later on to reverse his judgments. But the 
‘charity that thinketh no evil” is too rare to be condemned if 
occasionally it fails to discriminate ; and it was seldom indeed that 
hearts did not respond to his generous confidence. 


CHAPTER V. 


JOURNEY TO PERU, 
1897. 


N the latter part of 1897 Dr. Harry Guinness journeyed to South 
America. For several years previously, the circle at the 
Institute had been preoccupied with the spiritual needs of 
that vast continent. Its religious condition had evoked, 

even in Papal circles, the saying that “‘ The Latin races are the despair 
of the Church.’ The clear perception of the evils and dangers of 
Romanism, which characterized all the writings of Dr. and Mrs. 
Grattan Guinness—perceptions based, not on prejudice, but on 
experience, and also on wide reading and study of the methods of 
Rome in many lands and at many periods of the Christian era—had 
inspired their daughter Lucy’s book, The Neglected Continent, written 
in collaboration with Mr. E. C. Millard, and published in 1894-5. 
This book roused many Christians to a sense of South America’s 
great need of the pure Gospel. Already several former Harley students 
were labouring there, some under various Protestant agencies, others 
independently, as notably, Pastor Fanstone, in Brazil; and in April, 
1893, three others, namely Mr. Stark, Mr. Jarrett and Mr. Peters, 
began an evangelistic workin Peru. It was supported and directed by 
a group of friends in Toronto, Mr. Stark acting as agent for the Bible 
Society. As the Constitution of Peru did not permit religious liberty, 
great difficulties had arisen. The evangelists were expelled first from 
Lima and then from Cuzco, owing to ecclesiastical opposition, though 
all their work had been kept strictly within the law, and had com- 
mended itself to the civil authorities. The state Government, how- 
ever, acknowledged that it was acting illegally in expelling these 


55 


Lire oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


workers and had paid them an indemnity of £200. Moreover, their 
persecution had won them great sympathy from many of the in- 
habitants, so that the prospects of the Mission had reached a moment 
of critical importance for advance, and other Harley students were 
anxious to jointhem. Mr. Lodge and Mr. Backhouse had, in fact, done 
SO. 

A real forward movement, however, required a broader basis 
of support and more definite organization, and it was proposed to 
transfer the direction from Toronto to the management of the East 
London Institute. To arrange this, Dr. Harry Guinness’s journey 
was undertaken, the expenses being privately defrayed. He left in 
July for New York, and thence visited Boston, Old Orchard and 
Northfield for the Convention. Here he met the Rev. G. H. C. 
Macgregor and the Rev. Campbell Morgan, the latter for the first 
time, of whom he wrote, ‘‘ He will become one of the brightest orna- 
ments of the Keswick Platform.’’ He had also a good deal of inter- 
course with Dr. A. B. Simpson, of the Christian and Missionary 
Alliance, to whose conversion his father had been used, and whom he 
cordially appreciated, as “A very noble man—moderate, sensible, 
powerful, spiritual, missionary-hearted.”” He added, “It has already 
been worth while for me to have come over here to see what these 
American Christians are thinking and doing.” 

Going on to Toronto he conferred with the supporters of the 
Peruvian Mission. A matter of great personal interest to him there 
was to discover the house in which he was born, vouched for by 
friends who had known his parents at the time. 

His love and reverence for these parents was increased by meeting 
at every stage of this journey in North America, with the solid results 
of their work, many earnest workers greeting him with the words, 
‘“ T owe my conversion to your father.” It was a great encourage- 
ment for his own labours and a compensation for the renewed separa- 
tion from his family, which he keenly felt. All his life every letter 
abounds, not only with expressions of the tenderest affection to every 
member of the family, parents, brother and sisters, as well as wife 
and children, but with close enquiries as to their health, pursuits and 
happiness, and he constantly attributes the blessing which rested on 
his labours, as well as his preservation from dangers, to their inter- 
cessions, and to those of the students at Harley and Cliff. 


56 


JOURNEY TO PERU. 


To his wife: 

_ August 30, 1897: ‘‘ How I wish I could be with you all, and 
join in the joy of the bairns in their expectation and realiza- 
tion of the contents of the American parcel. God bless them all, 
and make them grow up strong and well and happy. . . . Now 
they must play: work will come later on. Inthe millennial day the 
children play in the streets of the city—that sounds good. God loves 
to see them happy ! Renewed children, having a good romp in the 
purified streets of a city where they will not be told to move on, or 
to be seen and not heard. Dear love to the beloved parents. Hungry 
tohearallnews. I think of you and pray for you all 


To the same: 

September, 16, 1897: “And you will be kept and blessed 
throughout the long months of absence. . 2 eet the 
consciousness that we are both treading the path of duty honestly 
sofarasweknow . . . . Blessed we both area thousand times— 
both in the associations of the past, especially in the devotion of our 
parents, which must have been so potent a factor in our lives, and in 
the family relations of the present and the outlook of the near and 
distant future. . . . How few our clouds have been, and how 
abundant our mercies !”’ 


Embarking from New York with Mr. Peters, Dr. Guinness duly 
reached Panama. Here a week’s unexpected delay enabled them to 
hold a series of meetings at the Wesleyan Mission, in which many 
were blessed. They arrived in Peru on September 27, landing at 
Callao, a place notorious at that time as the worst port on the Pacific, 
reputed to be the refuge of all the most incorrigible criminals, for 
the popular rhyme informed the world that 

“On no condition 


Is extradition 
Allowed in Callao,”’ 


The very day before their arrival an earthquake had taken place, 
the severest known for years past. This had the effect of stirring 
people up and many were in a mood to listen to the preaching of the 
Gospel. Dr. Guinness and his companion were welcomed by the other 
members of the Mission as well as by the pastors, who laboured among 


57 


Lire oF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


the Protestant population. What followed is best told in his own 
words : 


Callao, Oct. 27, 1897 :—“‘ After considerable time had been spent 
the two previous days in consideration of the difficulties which had 
tended to separate our beloved workers, we all met for tea at 5 p.m., 
and had afterwards a sacred time with one another and with God. 
Four hours passed away like one, and it was 9.30 before we finally 
arose from our knees. I cannot describe the scene, but it will never be 
forgotten by any who were present. After a preliminary statement 
from me . . . . with regard to the hindrances to union, which 
had existed, we viewed the matter from the standpoint of perishing 
Peru, of a Coming Lord, of an Outpoured Spirit, and of the Divine 
Word. We were coming with our gifts of surrender and devotion to 
the Altar, but when we remembered, as there only we can remember, 
if our brother has aught against us, [that] we are to leave the gift, 
however important it is to make it, and however clear it was in Deut. 
16, that at the yearly feasts such gifts were commanded by God— 
to leave the gift entirely, until reconciliation was first made, and then 
we were to come and offer our gifts to our Lord. After a period of 
prayer, dear X . . . . quoting that text, ‘Obedience is better 
than sacrifice’ came over to Y . . . . embracing him in the 
Lord and making a most complete reconciliation. It was deeply 
affecting and so thorough and deep that I anticipate a mighty impulse 
to go out from these united ranks to the salvation of Peru.” 


The first fruits of this hope were realized in the work of grace that 
ensued ; 


‘““ Now we are daily engaged in a double work—first, that of the 
quiet arrangement in conclave of the questions which affect the 
future working of the Mission ; second, in holding Mission services, 
7.30 a.m., 4.30 p.m. and 7.30 p.m. 

“We have already reached through the Congo Lecture given on 
Saturday, and through yesterday’s Men’s Meeting a certain section of 
the community that is entirely outside chapel or church influence. 
We had a number of enquirers yesterday, and no such gathering of 
men has ever before been seen in Callao at a religious service. Sailors 


58 


JOURNEY TO PERU. 


from the vessels, men from the railways and houses of business, 
hitherto quite unreached, are manifesting deep concern, and one 
fireman told me last night that he would willingly listen if I would 
go on preaching for ten hours! Another big, burly fellow, of Danish 
origin, and leaving to-day for the mines of Bolivia, was much affected, 
and after prayer with us in the after-meeting, he and another went 
back to Mr. Stark’s house, and there he gave his heart to God. We 
have given him a Bible and a supply of tracts, as he is plunging to-day 
into the midst of a godless lot of miners on his journey into the interior. 
May the God of all grace keep him safe and make him a witness in 
that dark land.” 

October 7 (8,000 feet high): ‘‘ I will continue where I left off, and 
tell you about the close of the Mission. The Lord’s presence and power 
were increasingly manifest night by night, and many souls undoubtedly 
passed from death unto life. Some English people, who scarcely ever 
enter the House of God were drawn into the gatherings, and the 
influence of the preached word was felt from centre to circumference 
of this community. 

“The second Lantern Lecture on the Congo was a splendid 
opportunity to reach the Spaniard. The large Shellacca Hall was 
crowded with 500 people, and Dr. Wood translated. For two hours 
there was the most perfect quiet, and I put in a good deal of Gospel, 
which must have been a revelation to some of them. As one young 
man expressed it, ‘it seemed to me that a great light shone in my 
heart after years of darkness.’ I addressed a most appreciative 
gathering of Spanish women on Monday, taking for my theme the 
‘ True Meaning of the Cross of Christ ’"—so little known in a land of 
crucifixes. In all, I took thirty-four meetings, besides spending about 
thirty hours or more in Committee and consultation work during the 
thirteen days I spent in Callao. . . . Special Bible Classes have been 
arranged for sixty or seventy friends who have been enquirers 
during this little Mission, and when one remembers the exceedingly 
limited number of the English speaking people in Callao, say, from 
three hundred to four hundred, including children, this is a very 
blessed result. ... On the occasion of our Praise and Testimony Meeting, 
Dr. Wood said, that if twelve days before the Mission closed anyone 
had asked him if he considered it possible that in so short a period 
so widespread a work of grace could be manifested, he could not have 


59 


LIFE oF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


believed it. Mr. Spangler, said he had often thought of writing to 
Moody, and God had now chosen His own messenger and sent him at a 
most unexpected time to unite all sections of the community in 
seeking God.” 


The foregoing letters, addressed to his wife, were, of course, not 
intended for publication, and, indeed, were then kept private by his 
express wish, but there can be no reason now for withholding the cir- 
cumstances amidst which the Peruvian Mission was re-born. 

The objects of this Mission were threefold. 

It sought to evangelize :— 

First, the scattered European settlers, especially the British, 
who, outside of the large towns, were almost entirely neglected. 

Secondly, the Spanish-speaking Peruvians themselves. 

Thirdly, the various Cholo and Indian peoples, especially 
the large and numerous tribes speaking the Quichua language, 
and believed to be the purest descendants of the original Incas 
of Peru. 

Peru comprises three regions: the flat, low-lying coast lands, the 
high table lands of the Andes, called the Montafia, and the Puno, 
the eastern slopes of forest land where rise the Amazon sources. 
Dr. Guinness’s investigations of the field led him into all of these, 
and involved three separate journeys. Leaving Callao, he travelled 
with Mr. Stark from Lima, the capital, to Oroya, on the wonderful 
Peruvian railway, which climbs the Andes to a height of 15,000 feet, 
whence they descended on horseback to the semi-tropical valley of 
the Perena. These and his later experiences he described in a series 
of charmingly written letters published in Regions Beyond. He had 
inherited much of his mother’s literary talent. But to him the 
importance of these journeys lay not in the scope they offered to the 
word-painter’s pen, but in the opportunities afforded for soul-winning. 
Each occasion seized revealed anew the value of that mintstry of joy 
which was so peculiarly his own. If duty be the only motive of 
Christian testimony, there are moments when the most conscientious 
feels he is off duty. Not so when the joy of the Lord is his strength. 
Then, there is no effort or constraint ; he only feels : 


I have such a wonderful Saviour 
That everybody should know. 


60 


JOURNEY TO PERU. 


_ However, it is not given to all to witness as Harry Guinness did. 
His great gift was that he instinctively created the atmosphere of 
sympathy in which the acceptable word came at the right moment, 
and the result was seen in the wake of blessing that followed wherever 
he passed. 


AMONG THE ANDES. 

Journal: 

‘“‘ We are on the marvellous Central Peruvian railroad—Mr. Stark 
and self—travelling second class in order to be amongst the country 
people and see as much of them as possible. The carriage is a long 
open saloon with wooden seats up the sides and in thecentre, and no 
pretence of comfort. Every one seems to wear a Panama hat, the 
age of which may be guessed by the shades of colour, varying from 
white to dirty yellow or brown. Some have evidently seen many 
years of service. Before me sits an old man, his head in a grey check 
bandage, surmounted by an ancient Panama hat, hair and scanty 
whiskers white, chin rough and unshaven. It is an interesting old 
sunburnt face, with well-marked features and large nose, but his whole 
aspect is dejected. A yellow poncho (cloak) droops over his shoulders 
and covers him to the ground. The baggage of the country folk is 
packed in material such as we cover mattresses with (called in Spanish 
alforja), striped blue, red or white. Two bundles are often tied 
together andslung overthearm. A coarse man on the opposite side of 
the carriage, his face unshaven, the brim of his Panama hat turned 
down, and a brilliant purple neckerchief in place of a collar, has just 
unwrapped a crucifix from a coloured handkerchief—an ivory figure 
on a black cross, and waving it . . . . about his head, shouts 
to some companions at the other end to look at his latest purchase 
which he is carrying home from Lima. They have just been passing 
a bottle of rum round and are growing hilarious. It turns out that the 
man with the crucifix was a colonel in the army of the late President, 
and is now going to his home at Tarma. 

“Mr. Stark is distributing tracts, and the Colonel and his com- 
panions are receiving them. A young man returns a Testament, 
looking frightened, but accepts a tract. Stark is chatting pleasantly 
to the group with the rum bottle, but it is difficult to deal with them ; 
they want neither us nor our Gospel. The Colonel moves to the end 


61 


LIFE OF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


of the carriage, and is evidently passing remarks to his companions 
there about the strange fanatic, at whom some of them turn to stare. 
I see there are two more Chinamen, with prominent cheek-bones, 
sunken cheeks and receding chin. Stark is sticking to conversation 
with a whiskered Spaniard with Panama hat, and evidently interesting 
him. Outside the valley is narrowing, rocks and mountains nearer, 
and the mist clearing away in the warm sunshine. 

“The Colonel has had a fresh drink and comes down the: carriage to 
dispute with Stark, the latter making the most of the opportunity. 
There is quite a hum of conversation, and I catch the words ‘da 
vida eterna.’ The conductor of the car is interested, and while Stark 
turns to him, the Colonel seizes a tract from a woman, and thrusts 
it back among Stark’s belongings. Presently he and another man, 
both of whom have hitherto been engrossed in a commercial paper, 
begin to examine some New Testaments left on a seat near. Then the 
Colonel reads some verses aloud, gesticulating meanwhile, and others 
crowd around. But we have stopped at a little roadside station, 
and the driver has invited me on to the engine, so I am going. 


“Next morning, after a considerable amount of haggling, we 
mounted our horses, and started on our journey of six leagues to Tarma. 
From Oroya, 12,178 feet, we ascended about 2,000 feet, and then had 
a long rough descent into this charming little town of 6,000 people. 
At the hotel, a pigstye of a place, we met two gentlemen from the 
Perene, and had most interesting conversation with them, and an 
opportunity of presenting salvation in Jesus. 

‘On the following day we easily reached the camp and put up at 
the hotel. On this little journey we had passed from the icy coldness 
of an altitude of 17,500 feet, amidst the solemn and yet glad stillness 
and solitude of the Andes, through every intervening clime, until we 
reached a tropical heat, foliage, and life that made me almost feel 
as if I were once more on the Congo! The last day’s journey was 
through a perfect paradise of beauty ; a rushing rocky stream below 
hills clothed with exquisite foliage. Sometimes strange geologic 
strata, in curves of natural architecture, which reminded one of a vast 
cathedral door, delighted the eye; then we plunged in the dark 
recesses of the mountain, soon to emerge again into the light and 
warmth of day. 


62 


_ JOURNEY TO PERU. 


IN THE PERENE. 

‘The Perene is a lovely valley, through which a river of the same 
name runs, about 2,000 feet above sea-level. There is an English 
colony here, mainly engaged in the cultivation of coffee. I stayed 
three days and had several private conversations, and conducted a 
meeting in the camp—the second held during the last five years! 
The men made me very welcome, and seemed only too pleased that 
an opportunity should occur to have Divine Service. Scotch, Irish, 
English, some from Universities, some from humbler walks of life, 
thrown together in this tropical land, attracted by the prospective 
profits of coffee-planting. Almost allthe menare young, and, deprived 
of any religious advantages, the tendency to demoralisation and 
degeneration is naturally very strong. 

“Tfsomecapable, earnest Christian could occasionally go down for 
a month, and spend a day or two with each man, helping in the work 
and giving spiritual food to those who so sorely need it, he would be 
welcomed by almost every man in the valley. The influence of the 
doctor and his wife (one of the few ladies in this region) has been most 
marked, and the comparative cessation of drinking customs is to be 
attributed to their advent, and also to the fact that the directors in 
London have recently sent out a present of some cricket things, which 
have proved more attractive than the bar of the camp store!”’ 


The second journey was a longer one. Returning to the coast 
he travelled from Callao to Mollendo by sea with Mr. Jarrett, and then 
visited Arequipa, of which he wrote : 

“‘ I was so glad to remember that though our brother, Mr. Lodge, 
was not permitted to live long in Peru, he and Mr. Jarrett, while 
spending a week in Arequipa, made bold to give away publicly sixty 
kilos of tracts, and to sell sixty New Testaments and twelve Bibles, 
chiefly in the outlying districts. They were in no way hampered, and 
their books, etc., seldom refused. This work was done in three days, 
Lodge being ill during the first part of the time. Doubtless, if they 
had attempted to continue it, they would have been ejected before 
another week was over!” 


After ascending the volcano, Mount Misti (“ 19,000 feet high and 
a little more’), where he took a photograph of the crater, though 


63 


LIFE oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


suffering severely from mountain sickness, they descended to Sicuani, 
and thence to Cuzco, the ancient capital of the Incas. Bolivia was also 
visited, and another part of the Puno. Here he heard, for the first 
time, of the terrible conditions under which rubber was collected by 
the Indians working for large trading firms. Only one thing could 
ever disturb his sunny temper, and that was cruelty in any shape or 
form. Then he blazed with indignation, whether it were a cock-fight 
in Madeira, of which he was once the unwilling witness, the shipping of 
oxen and pigs at Callao, the supply of unfit animals for riding in 
the Montafia, or the oppression of Africans on the Congo and of 
Indians on the Amazon. Of this last he wrote: 


“* The great trade of this vast Montafia is rubber, which is really 
more remunerative than the gold mines themselves. But awful 
cruelties and atrocities are committed on the helpless natives in con- 
nection with the traffic. Were it not for my experience of similar 
conditions on the Congo, I could scarcely credit the depths of degrada- 
tion to which men will sink, when, in the struggle for gold, they can 
make use of savage labour in a country where public opinion is an 
unknown quantity. My informant frankly confessed that he himself 
had shot many natives—fourteen at one time—and cut the throats of 
little children, because their parents, stung to dull resistance by 
incessant oppression, had threatened revenge! He showed no 
compunction whatever in telling me of these things, and many others 
that I could not write. Though a criminal code of law nominally 
exists in these blood-stained regions, as far as the poor Indian is 
concerned it is absolutely null and void. The prefects, appointed at 
La Paz, are the very ones most guilty, and attempt to profit by their 
position, enslaving multitudes and selling them down river, whither 
they are carried by men who live by that work, and who in turn dispose 
of them as labourers in the rubber forests. 

“A well-known Peruvian Colonel, with whom I had also ample 
conversation, and who was widely conversant with the Montafia of 
this country and Bolivia, entirely confirmed the statements which had 
been made, and referring to his own experience, said that such human- 
itarian ideas as he had formerly possessed while living for years in 
Paris were completely dispelled by actual contact with the Indians, 
whom he described as ‘ beasts,’ and added that in his deliberate 


64 


JOURNEY TO PERU. 


opinion there was only one way to deal with them, and that was as 
rapidly as possible to kill them off. I reminded him that their present 
condition was only the result of the persistent and shameful abuse 
of those who have domineered over them so long. To this he agreed, 
but in spite of it, viewing the actual present condition of these wild 
forest inhabitants, he re-affirmed his position. When I said something 
about the universal love of God, and the especial tenderness of Christ 
for thelost . . . . the thrice-repeated vision that made Peter exclaim 
“God hath showed me that I should not call any man common or 
unclean,’ he responded with a laugh— 

*““« Ah, sir, it is evident that Jesus never knew Peru! Asa sine 
qua non for success in this section of the country, you must have 
capital to start with, and cruelty as your method.’ 

“ How fearful a fact, that in these vast tropical reaches of the 
“Neglected Continent,’ wherever the influence of so-called ‘ civil- 
isation’’ makes itself felt, the same dark story of outrage and blood- 
shed invariably follows. Is it a Divine retribution on depraved and 
degenerate races for the accumulated sins of centuries ? In any case, 
the spectacle is sad beyond description, and the more so as the remedy 
seems impossible of discovery—one of those insoluble problems that 
should drive us more than ever to our knees, and to the old prayer, 
‘ Thy kingdom come; Thy Will be done in earth as it is in Heaven.’”’ 


After deciding on the necessity for re-opening Cuzco as a centre of 
work, they returned to their base, and in December, Pitumarca, 
Oruro, Iquique, were visited. Finally, on the 27th, Dr. Guinness 
re-embarked at Callao for Jamaica, New York and Liverpool, where 
he arrived in January, 1898, after an absence of nearly seven months. 
It had been a journey palpitating with interest, saddened only by the 
illness of young Harry Backhouse, a Harley Student who had just 
joined the Mission, and who was to lay down his life in the opening 
of Peru to the Gospel, like Robert Lodge in Bolivia, and later on the 
devoted William Newell in Cuzco. 

The impressions of this journey may be summed up in two 
sentences,—first, The impossibility of evangelizing the various Indian 
tribes ‘‘in one generation,” owing to the variety and difficulty of 
the languages spoken by them. Secondly, the urgent snportance 
of securing religious liberty in Peru. The account of his experiences 


65 


LIFE OF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


was listened to with intense interest at the Annual Harley Meeting 
in April, 1898, the report of which said, “One sentence of Dr. 
Guinness’ lingers in the mind like the echo of a bugle call—‘ That 
will be the question—Have we gone in with Him in His work for 
the world ?’”’ 

The Peruvian Mission was the first of several Missions in South 
America, for which responsibility was undertaken by the East London 
Institute. Most of them had been begun by the personal initiative 
of former students, in some instances acting as the agents of the Bible 
Society. In many cases they were partly supported by their friends, 
and the Institute acted as a central agency for collecting and sending 
out funds and reinforcements, as, e.g., for workers in Argentina and 
Costa Rica. Dr. Harry Guinness visited Argentina (Buenos Ayres) 
in 1904, and made a second journey to Peru in 1907. This time he 
was accompanied by his eldest daughter, whose subsequent book on 
“Peru,” illustrated mainly by his photographs, attracted much 
attention. But, as already said, as these missions grew and prospered 
the burden of their direction and support became too heavy a strain 
for the resources of the Regions Beyond Missionary Union (into which 
the Institute had been transformed), and they were collectively trans- 
ferred in September, 1911, to the recently formed Evangelical Union 
of South America. Few of them had struggled against such difficulties 
as the Peruvian Mission in its early days, for, as Dr. Harry Guinness 
wrote (in an article for the Sunday Strand on Unevangeltzed Peru), 
“ the presence of missionaries invariably raises the question of religious 
liberty, and they are placed in the position of the fulcrum on which 
the lever of liberal public opinion slowly raises the reluctant Roman 
Catholic Government towards the emancipation enjoyed by Protestant 
states and nations.” 

The Evangelical Union of South America informs us that, as a 
result of this effort, begun in 1903, religious liberty in Peru was 
finally secured on October 20, 1914, the voting in the Chamber of 
Deputies being sixty-one against twelve. There are now Peruvian- 
born communities of Evangelicals in the following cities: Lima, 
Cuzco, Arequipa, Urco and Huantan. 


CHAPTER VI. 


THE CONGO CRUSADE. 


1898-1910. 


HE East London Institute now entered upon a new era as a 
Missionary Society. While continuing unimpaired the 
Training Institutes, besides the Congo Balolo Mission 
and the Peruvian Mission, it became responsible for a new 

undertaking, the Behar Mission in India, which had been founded as a 
result of Lucy Guinness’s journey to India with her father (November, 
1896, to March, 1897). As will be seen, Dr. Harry Guinness’s last 
expedition was to visit this field. 

In the autumn of 1898 Mrs. Grattan Guinness passed away. 
Though she had long been an invalid, and unable to take any active 
part in the direction, none the less she had been, as ever, its magnetic 
centre. Mother and son were devoted to one another. To her 
training and influence he owed the inspiration and guidance of his 
early manhood, while she saw in him the fulfilment of her visions 
for the work and the answer to her prayers. 

A Memorial Fund was started, and a large mission steamer being 
urgently required for the Upper Congo, he worked hard all the following 
year to raise the £10,000 needed for this purpose as a tribute to her 
memory. The Livingstone was launched in England in 1901.* 

The same year witnessed the closing of Cliff College. It was a 
great wrench to give up the lovely place that had been for so many 


* The statements made in this chapter have been supplied to the writer by 
an authority on the subject who was from the first conversant with the whole 
state of affairs both on the Congo and later on in Europe during the Reform 
Agitation and since. 


67 


Lire oF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


years the centre of home life and hallowed intercourse, but the family 
circle had now been completely broken up. Dr. Grattan Guinness 
had spent most of the two years following his wife’s death, travelling 
in Egypt and Palestine with his daughter Lucy, journeys which 
eventuated in her marriage with Mr. (now Dr.) Karl Kumm, and the 
founding by them of the Sudan United Mission. Moreover, the out- 
break of the South African War had reduced both the funds and the 
number of students, and the trustees thought best to transfer Cliff 
College to the Rev. T. Cook for the purposes of a Wesleyan Training 
Institute. 

Another reason for thus curtailing the responsibilities of the 
Regions Beyond Missionary Union was the enforced absence of Dr. 
Harry Guinness himself. Towards the end of 1900 he had spent 
several weeks in Ireland, holding Missions in Dublin, Belfast, Cork, 
Limerick, Waterford and elsewhere. The scenes of his earlier evan- 
gelistic work seemed to berepeated.* ‘‘ Such crowded gatherings had 
not been seen since Moody’s visit. The Assembly Rooms at Cork, 
though accommodating 1,200, were not enough for the later audiences. 
The afternoon Bible Readings were crowded. Many professed con- 
version, and believers had been specially revived and blessed. In 
Dublin the numbers were even larger, and the number of R.B.H.U. 
helpers increased from 40 to 251.” 

During this time, however, he contracted the germs of typhoid 
fever, which developed soon after his return, and lasted for nearly 
sixteen weeks. Long he hung between life and death. Twice his 
recovery was despaired of, a serious relapse following the first rally. 
Prayers were offered by friends all over the world, and especially by 
those so lately visited in Ireland, and he was given back to the work 
that needed him so much. He was able to be present at the launch 
of the Livingstone on April 20, and at a Thanksgiving Meeting 
for his recovery on May 6. Then, acting on urgent medical advice, 
he left with his wife on a voyage to Tasmania, the Rev. F. B. Meyer 
meanwhile coming into residence as Director at Harley House. 

The voyage had a restoring effect on his vigorous constitution, 
and at the Antipodes he resumed the Gospel work that his illness 
had interrupted at home, visiting Geelong, Melbourne, Sydney, 
Bundaberg (Queensland), Adelaide and New Zealand, returning home 

* Regions Beyond, Jan., 1901. 


68 


THE CONGO CRUSADE. 


by way of America. Many remembered the days of fifteen years 
before when—a stripling with a silver cornet in his hand—he had held 
vast audiences captive. Though less sensational in its outward 
manifestations, the work this time seems to have been equally 
successful, and in some respects deeper, for his powers had matured 
in the meanwhile, especially since the experiences he had passed 
through during his illness and restoration to health. The Mission in 
Geelong was particularly blessed. His expositions of Scripture were 
greatly valued, and many dated their conversion from the Gospel 
meetings then held. Lasting friends were also made for the work of 
the Institute. 

Another cheering result was, that funds were given as thank- 
offerings, to send the Livingstone out to the Congo. The question 
was sometimes asked, “‘ Why was it necessary for the Congo Balolo 
Mission to own a steamer ? Why could not the missionaries use the 
State steamers ?” 

This enquiry raises the whole question of the Free State Govern- 
ment. The proceedings of its agents had become such that the 
missionaries were obliged to avoid every appearance of being identified 
with them. For a long while, unavailing pleas had been privately 
addressed to headquarters, and the time had now come when the 
protest must be public. On his return from Australasia, Dr. Hatry 
Guinness was summoned to the fiercest conflict of his life, namely, 
the struggle to secure humane conditions for the hapless natives of the 
Upper Congo, under the régime nominally of the Congo Free State, 
but actually of certain trading companies ineffectually controlled. 
It is painful to have to speak of this now, when conditions have been 
changed, but nothing in the present can alter what happened in the 
past. For several years both he and his mother refused to believe that 
the abuses of authority complained of were anything but accidental 
outbreaks. They perceived the undoubted facts that law and order 
weregradually being established alongthegreat river andits tributaries, 
tribal warfare was ceasing, the drink traffic excluded, and, above all, 
the terrible Arab slave-raiding had become a thing of the past. 
Moreover, in personal intercourse, the officials were generally kind 
and courteous to the missionaries, and among themselves made proof 
of that high sense of honour which the martyrdom of Belgium has 
taught us to associate with her sons. In illustration of this, a 


69 


LIFE OF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


touching story of faithfulness to death on the part of a Belgian officer 
in the Arab campaign is related by Dr. Hinde :* 


“T must relate the most heartrending scene in which I have ever 
been called upon to take part. You know the Arabs had, as prisoners 
in their camp, two white men, MM. Lippens and de Bruyn. M. 
de Bruyn was sent to us by the Arabs in order to persuade the whites 
to cross the Lomani river with only 50 men for an escort to interview 
Sefu. We knew from our spies that this was nothing but a ruse to 
gain possession of our persons. De B. came to the river bank, and 
from one bank to another conversed with us. I shouted, ‘ Can you 
swim?’ He replied, ‘Yes.’ We hid ten of our best marksmen in 
the bushes of our bank, and suddenly, when our arrangements were 
complete, I called to him, ‘‘ Does anyone on your side understand 
French ?’ He answered, ‘No.’ Thereupon I gave orders to the 
men I had hidden. . . . Then I said to de B. ‘I have picked 
marksmen . . . and I can save you; jump into the river.’ A 
truly awful silence ensued and lasted for about a minute. Then he 
answered, ‘No, thank you, I cannot forsake Lippens.”” And he 
simply went back to his warders! Last night we learnt from one of 
our prisoners that his head, and that of Lippens, were impaled on the 
stockade of a town three days’ march from this (Kasongo).”’ 

But, unfortunately, the faith they kept with each other was 
seldom kept with the natives. Had it been simply a question of 
establishing law and order among these terribly barbarous savages, 
the record of the State might, perhaps, have been other than it was. 
The abuses arose out of the rubber traffic, and the desire to make 
vast and immediate profits. 

The first authentic stories of outrages were brought home by the 
Rev. J. Murphy, of the American Baptist Mission, on the Upper Congo, 
in 1895. They were confirmed the following year by the Rev. Charles 
Banks, A.B.M.U., and by Mr. Sjoblém, a Swedish Missionary and 
former student of Harley College. The facts were appalling, the 
evidence indisputable. Dr. Harry Guinness went over to Brussels 
as soon as possible and interviewed the leading Authorities on the 
subject. The following is his own account of the visit. 


* Quoted in Regions Beyond, October, 1899. 
70 


THE CONGO CRUSADE. 


*“* After prolonged conversation, the Secretary told me that he 
thought I wasa moderate man, and that he would like me to see the 
King and lay these facts before him. On the following day the King 
received me most graciously, and afforded me an extended opportunity 
to speak of the terrible conditions obtaining on the Congo. At last 
he said, ‘ You are an excellent young man, but you must not believe 
what the natives say.’ ‘It is not native report, your Majesty,’ I 
replied, * but evidence of a very different character that I wish to lay 
before you.’ I then informed him of the following facts : 


“On December 14, 1895, my friend Mrs. Banks had been crossing 
the Station Compound at Bolengi, when she saw a poor woman being 
beaten by a native sentry, and on her enquiring what was the matter, 
the sentry replied ‘ She has lost one!’ ‘ One what ?’ enquired Mrs. 
Banks. ‘Why, one of the hands,’ said the sentry. And then Mrs. 
Banks noticed that the basket on the back of the woman was filled with 
human hands. She immediately called her husband and Mr. Sjoblém 

and the hands were counted in their presence. There 
were eighteen in all, and the angry sentry still asserted that there 
ought to have been nineteen. Some of these smoked hands were 
those of children, some of women and some of men. ‘ Where are 
you taking these ?’ asked one of the missionaries. ‘To the White 
man (the State man), to whom I have to prove that I have been 
diligent in pushing the rubber business, and who would punish me 
if I did not compel the people to bring in a sufficient quantity.’ ”’ 


The King promised enquiry, and asked the names of any 
officials whom the missionaries of the Upper River thought should be 
removed. Several were named, to whom unavailing protests had been 
made, and they were duly removed, but as afterwards appeared, only 
to remoter spheres where they pursued the same course of action with 
even less compunction. 

For a time, however, things seemed to improve, but only to get 
worse in regions far removed from possible observation. Early in 
1904 many had become convinced that stronger pressure must be 
applied, and in March of that year the Congo Reform Association was 
founded, and hundreds of pounds were at once subscribed. The 
preliminary Committee consisted of the following: Mr. (now Lord) 


71 


LiFe oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


Emmott, the late Mr. John Holt, Mr. Harold Bredner, Mr. E. D. 
Morel and Dr. Harry Guinness. Part of the programme was the 
education of public opinion first as to the facts, secondly as to the 
responsibility of the European Powers which had guaranteed the 
interests of the natives, and Dr. Guinness being at that time practically 
the only speaker free to undertake propaganda work, he started the 
campaign with lecture and lantern. It was a crusade after his own 
heart in defence of the helpless, and he threw his whole energies into 
it during the winters of 1904, 05 and ’06. He was conversant with the 
facts as no one else was, and his power of swaying vast audiences never 
had fuller scope. Needless to say, his services to the cause were 
rendered entirely gratuitously. 

It would be a mistake to suppose that he simply worked up 
atrocities into flaming rhetoric. He and those whom he represented 
recognized from the first that the atrocities were only the fleurs du 
mal, and that the root of the evil lay much deeper. His addresses 
were plain narratives of fact from the reports of eye-witnesses, and 
statements drawn from Government reports, showing the damaging 
statistics, e.g., of cartridges and caps imported, and the proportion 
they and other imports bore to the export of rubber. He illustrated 
his arguments with pictures and diagrams shown by lime- 
light. 

He was not a blind partizan; he fully recognized that such 
savages as those of the Congo required strict and even stern govern- 
ment. But he plainly saw that no nation could be civilized by the 
process then being applied. His friend, the Rev. E. Isaac, wrote 
in the Southern Cross (July, 1915) : 

“ He wasa man of dauntless courage, did not boast idly of what he 
would do, nor turn back from what he was doing. Hereminded me of 
Dr. Weymouth’s translation of 2 Cor. xi. 29, ‘‘ Who is led astray into 
sin, and I am not aflame with indignation ?’” 

‘He was appointed by a special Commission to visit Belgium and 
interview King Leopold. He seized the opportunity, and spoke as 
strongly as his position allowed. The King was forced to admit that 
though he did not relish the straight talk, ‘he admired the enthusiasm 
of the young man who gave it.’ ” 

Altogether he had three audiences of the King of the Belgians 
in the course of the agitation. 


72 


THE CONGO CRUSADE. 


From the public point of view, his most successful meeting was 
the one held in St. James’s Hall on June 8, 1904, under the chairman- 
ship of Lord Kinnaird. The big hall was filled to watch the debate 
to which the Reform Association had been challenged by the appointed 
advocate of the Congo Government. Dr. Guinness prepared for this 
meeting with extraordinary care, and much prayer was offered for it by 
all who had the welfare of the nativesat heart. Theresult was seen 
in the way he carried the meeting with him, and it became known later 
on that the arguments he then presented had won over several 
influential helpers. The full report of this meeting lies before us. 

His opponent had evidently only expected vague and emotional 
denunciations of the cause he defended, and possibly a few allegations 
of crime against native agents, the responsibility for which could not 
possibly be proved against any white man. After hearing Dr. 
Guinness’s reply, dealing almost entirely with the contrasts between 
imports and exports, and the value of the payments made to the native, 
he said, “‘ I scarcely suspected that we should have to deal with the 
fiscal problem here.’’ But the fiscal problem was the crux of the whole 
question. The Congo country was being run, not in the interests of 
the native, but for the profit of the absentee landlords whom the 
State Government represented. 

Dr. Guinness’s speech was a masterpiece of courtesy and ability. 
Its frank and lofty tone, and the moral earnestness that inspired it, © 
contrasted strongly with the cynicism and occasional flippancy of 
the first speaker. Briefly, the case for the prosecution was; first, 
that while the Government nominally only demanded forty hours 
unpaid work in a fortnight from each taxable native, in practice it 
required of him an amount of rubber (or other produce) representing 
at least a fortnight’s labour, including canoe or overland journeys to 
and from the places where the new produce was obtained (ever more 
difficult to find in the forests as trees were wastefully destroyed, instead 
of the collection being properly supervised), hence the native was 
being taxed beyond the possibility of his power to produce wealth. 
Secondly, that the extra labour involved, for which they were supposed 
to be remunerated, was paid, not in money, but in goods, usually 
worthless (e.g., a knife bought for 24d., or half-a-crown a dozen from 
Messrs. B., of Sheffield, was given in payment of three kilos. of rubber 
worth twenty-one shillings on the Antwerp market). And thirdly, 


73 


Lire oF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


that when the amount of produce fixed by the State Agents was not 
forthcoming, not only was the native himself punished if he could be 
got at, but he was penalised also in the persons of hostages, his family, 
wives, children and dependants. 

Allthis was established by the testimony of eye-witnesses, among 
others that of the Rev. John Weeks, B.M.S., and the Rev. D. Hayes. 
The conditions on the Upper Congo in the regions controlled by certain 
trading companies were very much worse than on the Lower River. 

Holding up the chicotte (whip of hippopotamus hide) Dr. Guinness 
said: ‘I have a proof of how one poor woman with whom we are 
acquainted was flogged to death with two hundred blows with a 
weapon like that because her husband had not brought in enough 
rubber to please the particular individual.”’ 

Facts such as these are no longer in dispute, but many present on 
that occasion heard them for the first time, and went away convinced 
by the weight of evidence furnished. Theagitation continued through- 
out 1906, Dr. Harry Guinness and Mr. Morel addressing thousands of 
hearers at various large gatherings. 

The only effective reply to these charges, namely, that they had 
been inspired by Protestant prejudice, was disposed of in 1906 by the 
publication of Father Vermeersch’s book, La Question Congolaise, in 
which the brave Catholic Missionary said: ‘‘ The contemplation of 
an immense misery has caused us to publish this book.”’ 

As time went on, however, the question of Congo Reform became 
more and more one of diplomatic struggle. The public had become 
convinced as to the truth of the allegations and Dr. Guinness’s plat- 
form work was no longer required inthe same way. The conflict, now 
transferred to another sphere, was continued by other hands. But 
right on to the end he kept up his private exertions on behalf of the 
unhappy natives. Even earlier, his advocacy had not been only that 
of the lecturer. He had placed urgent and carefully prepared mem- 
oranda before the Foreign Secretary (Lord Lansdowne). He had 
crossed the Atlantic on his way to Peru in 1907, and had urged upon 
the President of the United States (Colonel Roosevelt) the plea that 
the victims of oppression had a claim upon his Government, because 
it was the first to recognize the Congo Association as a properly 
constituted State (in a Convention signed April 22, 1884), and he 
entreated that the voice of the great Republic should be heard on their 


74 


THE CONGO CRUSADE. 


behalf. The Powers were entitled, nay, responsible, to remonstrate 
with the head of the Congo Free State because of its constitution 
being internationally guaranteed. 


“Prince Bismarck issued invitations to the Powers to an Inter- 
national Conference at Berlin, which assembled on November 15, 1884. 
Its deliberations ended on February 26 of the following year by the 
signature of a General Act which dealt with the relations of the European 
Powers to other regions of Africa. .... The provisions affecting the 
Congo may be brieflystated ..... Trade monopolies were prohibited, 
and provisions made for civilizing the natives, the suppression of the 
slave trade, the protection of missionaries, scientists and explorers . . . 
Only such taxes or duties were to be levied as had the character of an 
equivalent for services venderved to navigation itself.’’* 


These articles were prefaced ““IN THE NAME OF ALMIGHTY GOD.” 
“This Berlin Act was signed by all the Powers of Europe, and, of 
course, bythe Turksfor Turkeyin Europe. The United States Govern- 
ment took part in the conference, but did not sign the Act, because, 
amongst the subjects it dealt with was that of territorial division, 
and it was held by the Americans that for the United States Govern- 
ment to take part in the division would be, in spirit at least, a 
violation of the Monroe Doctrine.”’ 

The closing public appeal made by Dr. Guinness was contained 
in the fifty-page pamphlet of 1908, The Congo Crisis, which he 
prepared himself for the press. Its opening words lifted the whole 
subject out of the region of human failure and mutual recrimination 
into the realm of Divine Government. 


THE APPEAL, 
“In THE NAME OF ALMIGHTY Gop.—All the Powers exercising 
sovereign rights, or having influence in the said territories, undertake 
to watch over the preservation of the native races and the amelioration 


of the moral and material conditions of their existence.” 
Art. VI Act oF BERLIN, 1885. 


“ Curse ye, Meroz,” said the Angel of the Lord, 
“* Curse ye bitterly the inhabitants thereof, because 
“ they came not to the help of the Lord, to the help 
“of the Lord against the mighty.” 

* Ency. Britt., Art. Congo Free State. 


75 


Lire oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


“* The principle involved is clear . . . . If the nations of Europe 
are made aware that a mightier oppression than that imposed by 
Jabin (King of Canaan) long ago has crushed the helpless inhabitants 
of the Upper Congo for over twenty years, and if with full knowledge 
of the atrocious form of slavery in which these populations are held, 
these nations yet refuse their succour or fail to interfere actively on 
their behalf, then upon these who bound themselves to be their 
protectors in the Name of Almighty God must fall a deep, bitter and 
irreparable curse. 

“The answer sent by the Powers of Europe, when approached by 
Great Britain in the past, in reference to an International Conference 
regarding the Congo, was to the effect that they had not sufficient 
material interests in those regions to warrant their intervention... . 
Only material interests need to be taken into account ! 

“This would be bad enough if the nations of Europe had no 
direct responsibility in this matter, but, seeing that they are the self- 
appointed trustees of these perishing people, it is simply monstrous 
that they should not have intervened long ago! and if, at this time, 
they do not respond to their solemn duty, who can say that the curse 
of Meroz, in some Divinely appropriate form, shall not fall on them 
from Him whose eyes ‘ run to and fro throughout all the earth’ and 
who, speaking of the sorely oppressed long ago, said, ‘J know their 
sorrows, and I am come down to deliver them.’ ? Wehavetaken upon us 
the Name of the Almighty in this matter, and the Lord will not hold 
that nation guiltless which taketh His Name in vain.” 


These words were published in 1908. 
Has this forecast been fulfilled, or has it not ? 


‘‘The blood of Europe makes reply!” 


After marshalling a weighty array of facts and figures, witnesses 
and photographs, history and statistics, and after contrasting the 
promises of the State Government with its performances, the pamphlet 
concluded with a section entitled 


THE Conco Crisis A CALL TO PRAYER. 
‘“‘Sit down, white man,” said a native chief to Mr. Padfield, 
when he was preaching in a Congo village which he had never pre- 


76 


THE CONGO CRUSADE. 


viously visited. “Sit down and listen to me. You have come to 
tell us of salvation from sin, but have you no word of salvation from 
rubber ?”” 

“Can you imagine the Missionary in the midst of the woes of an 
oppressed people, bowing his head in his hands with shame for the men 
of his colour ? 

“The honour of God’s Kingdom is at stake and we have not 
recognized, as we should, the appalling hindrance offered to the 
Saviour’s sway. 

“Perhaps long ago a solution to the Congo problem might have 
been forthcoming had the Church done her duty in the matter of 
prayer. We have been indignant, but have we prayed? We have 
petitioned the British Government for redress, but in the might of our 
helplessness have we reached the Throne of heavenly grace? We 
have felt for the natives, but have we felt for God ? 

“Could anything be more imperative, more effective, than wide- 
spread obedience to this Providential call to prayer—so clearly 
indicated by the present crisis in Congo affairs ? 

“Oh that the Lord might bow the heavens and come down for 
the deliverance of these captives as long ago He stooped for 
the emancipation from Egyptian thraldom of His ancient 
people.” 


This Appeal did not fall on deaf ears. The Christian heart had 
been touched as well as the Christian conscience aroused. Far and 
wide throughout Protestant Europe prayer was made, and when 
diplomacy had exhausted all its efforts seemingly in vain, the Hand of 
God removed the chief hindrancetoreform. The evening of November 
19, 1909, witnessed the great protest of the Christian Churches at 
the Albert Hall, over which the Archbishop of Canterbury presided. 
The speakers were the present Bishops of London and Oxford, the 
Rey. John Clifford, Rev. Scott Lidgett and the Rev. Sylvester 
Horne. 

King Leopold died on December 17 following. Immediately, 
under the rule of his successor, the heroic King Albert (who had 
himself visited the Congo shortly before, in July, 1909), reforms were 
begun. They were to be applied in three periods, and by June, 1912, 
they were supposed to be in complete operation, and the Congo Reform 


77 


LIFE OF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


Association was able to dissolve itself, having accomplished its 
purpose. 

Some may have wondered that the share of Dr. Harry Guinness 
in its achievement did not receive more public recognition. But 
though the Association would have honoured itself in honouring him, 
he himself desired no such prominence. ‘‘ The servant of the Lord 
must not strive.” His vocation runs great risks in the arena of public 
conflict, and one cannot too much observe the Providential Hand, 
which after it had led him to the forefront as a witness to declare the 
truth while it was still unknown, gently withdrew him when his mission 
there had been fulfilled and brought him back to the only place where 
the Christian may safely strive—namely, the sanctuary—the conning- 
tower of God. 


This campaign, combined with his other responsibilities, proved 
a heavy tax even for hissplendidconstitution. It was tried still more 
when, in April, 1910, nineteen years after his first visit, he returned to 
the Congo in order to mark the reforms already in progress, as well 
as the advance in Mission work. The climate proved too much 
for him, and he fell so seriously ill at Leopoldville that the Belgian 
doctors there insisted on his immediate return to England, where he 
arrived on August 14. His stay had been long enough, however, 
to show that the reforms were being honestly carried out and that the 
voice of justice had not been lifted up in vain. In the circular letter 
which he addressed to the helpers of the Mission in October he was 
able to write : 


“You will be glad to hear that the conditions of slavery which 
characterized the old régime on the Congo are disappearing, and as 
far as I can judge there is a genuine desire to deal fairly by the natives. 
The gradual introduction of silver currency will in time do away with 
the necessity for taxation in rubber, gum, copal or native produce, 
and the new money tax is being graduated in various districts according 
to native ability to pay, and varies from five to twelve francs per 
annum. Speaking to an exceedingly intelligent native at Stanley 
Pool the other day, Iasked him his feelings in regard to recent changes 
at Leopoldville. Hisreply was unhesitating, ‘The old, bad times are 
past, and to-day we are free!’ ” 


78 


THE CONGO CRUSADE. 


The following verses were marked by Dr. Harry Guinness in the 
pocket edition of Whittier’s poems carried by him in all his Congo 
journeys. Evidently they had been a constant source of inspiration 
to him, and now he had the joy of seeing them fulfilled. 


Faith shares the Future’s promise: Love’s 
Self-offering is a triumph won ; 

And each good thought or action moves 
The dark world nearer to the Sun. 


Then faint not, falter not, nor plead 
Thy weakness; Truth itself is strong ; 

The lion’s strength, the eagle’s speed 
Are not alone vouchsafed to wrong. 


79 


CHAPTER VII. 


INDIA. 


1913-1914. 


visit the Regions Beyond Mission in Behar, which had been 
founded in response to his sister Lucy’s urgent representations 
of the need. The province of Behar (Bengal), in the rich 
alluvial plain of the Ganges has been called the Garden of India, but 
in 1897, among its twenty-two millions of inhabitants (exclusive of 
the Santals in the Uplands) it possessed only fifteen missionaries, 
and in the district of Champaran, peopled by two millions, there was 
not one. In 1901 two young Harley Students, Messrs. Banks and 
Hicks, were enabled to open the first station at Motihari, the 
administrative centre of the district. They were soon joined by Messrs. 
Hodge* and Wynd, and the work has so prospered that it now includes 
four stations, viz., Motihari, Siwan, Champatia and Gopal Ganj, besides 
a Girls’ School at Raxaul, and Orphanages at Motihari and Siwan. 
This last began by a little waif being brought to the missionary and his 
wife one night by a kindly native policeman. It throve, but, sadto 
say, their own dear baby died. The parents in their great grief felt 
that they must receive the Indian child, not as a changeling, but as 
they believed their own was being welcomed in Heaven, and soon 
their door was opened to other foundlings for whom heathenism had 
made no provision. 
The Mission had received no visit from headquarters during the 
twelve years of its existence and rejoiced at the prospect of welcoming 
* The author (since then) of Caste or Christ. 


IE October, 1913, Dr. Harry Guinness left England for India to 


80 


INDIA. 


the Director. Arriving in Bombay on October 22, his itinerary was 
briefly as follows : 


1913. Oct. 30 to Nov. 3. Poona. 


November 7. Motihari (Behar, Bengal). 
November 10. Sonepur Mela (Fair). 
November 26. Motihari and Champatia. 
(Mohurrum Festival.) 
1914. January. Siwan and Gopal Ganj. 
February 1st (about) Colombo. 
February 15. Calcutta, thence via Benares, 
Lucknow, Cawnpore, Agra, 
Muttra, to 
March 7. Delhi ; thence v7a Amritsar, Lahore, 


Pindi, Peshawur and Poona, 
back to Bombay. 

April 1. Egypt. 

April 11. Arrival in England. 


His experiences would be best related in his own graphic letters. 
Unfortunately space only permits of very brief extracts from these, 
but they will serve to show how deeply the fascination of the Far East 
laid hold of him. In the wonderful series of photographs he took 
during this tour, especially those illustrating various types of religious 
devotees, he endeavoured to convey to those at home something of 
what India had taught him, not only of its charm, but of its spiritual 
needs and possibilities. Here the artistic side of his nature came into 
play, and probably no such pictures of India have ever been 
presented. 

On October 22 he entered Bombay, the “‘ Gate of India,’’ which he 
describes as the most amazing city he had ever seen. He writes: : 


“*T am bewildered by its sights and sounds. Here East and West 
meet and mingle with endless permutations and combinations of form, 
colour and sound. It is unlike anything I have ever seen, and yet it 
is strangely familiar. Built on an island, it resembles in many respects 
New York. The wide, stretching bay reminds one of Naples. The 
enormous buildings combine the solidity and general form of the West, 
with the complex ornament so characteristic of the East. But the 
streets, with their thronging myriads of passers-by, speaking forty 
different languages, and of every imaginable dress and undress, 


81 


LirE OF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


surpass all else in interest. A million people; so human and yet so 
strange—so alien to our thoughts. Hindus, Parsis, Mahomedans are 
here in swarming crowds.” 


From Poona, he writes (October 30) : 

““T am spending the week-end in Poona, at the Soldiers’ Home. 
The soldiers are from places where I have been, including Stratford 
and Bow. They love singing the old hymns, and I have twice con- 
ducted evening worship with them. 

“The Poona of the Army Cantonment with its 5,000 men— 
European Poona—and its fine roads, so spick and span, is one thing, 
but native Poona, with its narrow srteets and swarming population, 
is very different. 

“Twice I have been through all the plague quarters, and twice 
also through one of the plague camps, where I took a number of 
pictures. This morning Dr. Mann took me over the plague camp and 
through the quarters of the ‘ untouchables ’—such sights! Folk flee 
from the rat-infected parts of the city to certain camps established 
pro tem. on ground belonging to the municipality or to private indiv- 
iduals. The primitive conditions obtaining are most interesting, 
and the bubonic plague from which they flee claims from twenty to 
thirty people daily. 

“The ‘ untouchables’ are such ceremonially, as by mere contact 
they would defilea Brahman. They include many poor folk, amongst 
them being a lot of railway employés. Their houses are indescribably 
miserable, and are a disgrace to Poona. Dr. Mann has been agitating 
for social reform, and he will yet obtain it.” 


‘“‘T have had a very busy time in sweltering heat. I think I spoke 
about twelve times, including four services on the second Sunday. In 
the morning I preached in the Baptist Church. In the afternoon I 
addressed two gatherings of men only, Europeans and natives, and at 
9.15 preached to a mixed gathering, which included many Christian 
workers. 

“‘T visited the Women’s University Settlement and met several 
of their workers, and of their lady medical students. A lady Parsi, 
has just created great consternation in that community by under- 
going Christian Baptism at one of the Evening Meetings. I should 


82 


INDIA. 


like to have met her at the Settlement, but she had gone to a Con- 
ference out of Bombay—a kind of local Keswick.”’ 

Later, referring to the work of the well-known Indian Christian 
lady, Pundita Ramabai, he writes: 


“Ramabai is a wonder. I went through the whole com- 
plex work with amazement. A native controlling twenty white 
workers and twelve hundred girls and women, in much the same order 
as one might expect at Bridge of Weir [Quarrier’s Homes] or Ilford 
[Dr. Barnardo’s Cottage Homes]. I saw the schools—excellent, 
and all the practical departments where girls are doing embroidery, 
printing, compositing, spinning, weaving, building, cooking, soldering 
brass work, etc., etc. Some, comparatively few, marry Christian men 
who apply for wives to Ramabai. The weakness I saw was that, 
apart from one thousand husbands who do not come, these sweet 
girls and women live and will die celibate, and the supply of Christian 
mothers be largely fruitless... . . 


““We have often heard of people complaining of ‘ Christian’ 
servants in India, and saying they would far rather have others. 
I wondered often as to the reasons for this, but the main one is obvious. 

‘‘When anyone here becomes a Christian, he has to leave his 
caste, and he thenceforth enters a new caste, which goes by the name 
of ‘ Christian.’ His children and theirs, in turn, are identified with 
this caste, a mere nominal distinction often enough. A murderer 
might thus bea ‘Christian,’ which name has no reference whatever 
to either the character or creed of the individual. Our country is a 
‘Christian’ country in a far deeper sense, because the Christian 
spirit has profoundly modified all public opinion and social ideals. 
And yet the product is hardly what one would identify with true 
Christianity, when one thinks of the drink-traffic and all the rest. 
I shall go into this difficulty more deeply with our men when we meet. 
These children of nominal Christians ought to be better than they are. 


“T saw something of Mr. Sethua’s family in Bombay, and was 
deeplyaititerested. choco. Just now in India ‘Education’ is 
to do everything. They have not yet found out its impotence as a 
working force.” 


83 


LiFE oF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


Dr. Guinness speaks at some length of his intercourse with this 
highly educated Parsi gentleman who came to hear him preach, and 
“was reminded of Dr. Parker.’ Mr. Sethua sent a touching letter 
of sympathy to Mrs. Guinness after the doctor’s death, in which he 
said : 


“He was such a loveable person . . . . one of those whose goodness 
was free from the least stain of priggishness. He seemed to possess an 
intensity of passion for righteousness, but he had a most humane way of 
looking at life and a sense of companionship with his fellows. May his 
soul rest in peace.” 


Motihari was reached on November 7, and Mr. John Z. Hodge 
gave a vivid description of the reception Dr. Guinness received there. 


“Dr. Ram Dhari Sinha, the Mayor of Motihari, kept vigil with us 
at the station, eager also to welcome the distinguished traveller, and 
through his kindness we drove in a carriage and pair with something 
suspiciously like state to the Mission bungalow some two miles away. 

‘Saturday was a busy andauspicious day. The Doctor wasabroad 
early and paid a visit to the Post Office, passing on the way a bit of 
real India in the shape of the Motihari Bazaar. It was a joy also to 
meet the Indian Postmaster and his wife, both earnest Christians who 
have lately come from Bengal. The rest of the morning was given up 
to conversation with Indian Christian brethren who had mustered: 
strong to pay their respects to the Director Sahib, for whose coming 
they had long waited and prayed. The Bible Class held the afternoon. 
The members were eager to meet Dr. Guinness, so we arranged a little 
‘At Home’ for their benefit, and by 4 o’clock they began to muster 
and ceased not till well on three score members and their friends were 
ready to respond to a roll call. For this brief hour at least they all 
belonged to the ‘ Order of the Glad Heart,’ and it was charming to see 
the mingling of respect and pleasure with which they greeted the guest 
of the evening. Some of the more adventurous spirits asked him for 
his impressions of India, and even ventured on a few witticisms—a 
good sign—and the time passed all too quickly, so much so that there 
was no need to call in the help of the inevitable gramophone. Photo- 
graphs had to be taken, to the usual accompaniment of wit. and 
pleasing vanity. ... After this we listened to a Bengali hymn, 


84 


INDIA. 


beautifully rendered by one of the younger generation, and then 
another of the younger members, who had also the distinction of being 
the local Poet Laureate, read a little poem, entitled ‘ True Virtue,’ 
which he had hastily prepared for the occasion. By this time we 
were ready for the address of welcome which Dr. Ram Dhari Sinha, a 
Kaisar-I-Hind medallist, read, and to which Dr. Guinness made a 
felicitous reply, taking occasion at the same time to commend the 
prayerful study of the Christian Scriptures to the gentlemen present. 
It was nearing ‘ candle light ’ when we separated into two camps for 
refreshments—the Hindus going one way and the Christians and 
Mohammedans the other: by which token you will gather that the 
shadow of caste falls embarrassingly on even these social functions. 
But while caste is strong, the essential interests of life are stronger, 
and while we part from our Hindu friends when the dinner bell rings, 
we meet again on a higher crest of the hill. So it is: the time of 
eating and drinking is soon over, and we join in a kindly good-night, 
to meet again around the Book of God on the coming Sabbath after- 
noon. The little Mission Church was comfortably filled for the 
morning Hindustani Service. Dr. Guinness spoke by interpretation 
on Paul’s exhortation in 2 Tim. ii. 8, ‘ Remember JEsus Curist, 
risen from the dead,’ and we were grateful for the heartening word. 
In the quiet Communion Service that followed we were conscious of 
the nearness of God and the mystery of Calvary. 

“Although no special notice had been circulated, there was a 
splendid muster at the Bible Class in the afternoon—fully forty 
members being present—to hear Dr. Guinness. It happened that 
the lesson for the day was Luke xiii., and the Doctor, with fine adap- 
tability, took up the story of the woman with eighteen years’ infirmity, 
and gave an address that made a deep impression. The contrast 
between human inability and Divine capability was clearly drawn, 
and the secret of power unveiled by the lifting up of One Mighty to 
save. To such doctrine proclaimed in sympathy and sincerity, 
educated India will listen, and as Dr. Guinness passes on to the great 
centres, where open doors of service abound on every hand, we 
anticipate a kindly welcome and an eager hearing. 

“Dr. Guinness is in excellent health, and his energy is amazing. 
He left us on Monday morning for the far-famed Sonepore Religious 
Fair.” 


85 


Lire oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


The Sonepore Mela used to be the great rendezvous of 
Europeans in the palmy days of the planters. Since the introduction 
of synthetic indigo, these have had bad times, and they say the Mela 
is no more what it used to be, though the native festivities are stillon a 
vast scale. The following is Dr. Guinness’s account of this great 
annual festival : 


THE TEST OF THE CROWD. 

““The Sonepore Mela is just one of those extraordinary sights 
which once seen can never be forgotten. No words can possibly 
convey the vivid impression produced by this vast concourse of 
humanity massed within the space of five or six square miles on the 
banks of the Gandak river, at the junction of the latter with the still 
more sacred Ganges. From time immemorial this meeting of the 
waters has been one of the sacred spots of Northern India,and following 
the erection of a temple by Ram, it gradually attracted increasing 
crowds of pilgrims. Commerce, as ever, was not slow to avail itself 
of the opportunities afforded, and thus originated the annual fair which 
has developed into such gigantic proportions. 

“ A quarter of a million people are drawn from every point of the 
compass, many to avail themselves of the largest cattle market in the 
world, and all to share in the religious climax of the Mela, when the 
full moon looks down on the worshipping, bathing multitudes thronging 
the banks of the swiftly-flowing Gandak. 

‘‘The wondrous ‘tamasha’ (spectacle) afforded is dear to every 
Indian heart, which loves a ‘ show’ of any kind, and the attraction 
afforded can be readily appreciated when it is known that somewhere 
about five hundred elephants are offered for sale, twenty thousand 
horses, fifteen thousand ponies, sixty thousand oxen, five hundred 
buffaloes, five hundred cows, and about one hundred camels. These 
roughly approximate figures were supplied to me by an Indian medical 
man, who held for many years an official position in the Mela. 

** Partly on account of my presence in Behar, our missionaries 
arranged to visit Sonepore in November this year, and to utilize the 
unique opportunity for Gospel preaching, and the disposal of Christian 
literature. 

“Scarcely had I arrived at Motihari, after a long train journey 
across India, before we had to leave for the Mela, where we found the 


86 


INDIA. 


Mission camping-ground, and my corner in a comfortable tent of 
Indian manufacture. At daybreak, after ‘ chota hazeri’ (an early cup 
of tea) and morning prayers, at which the Indian Christian workers 
were gathered, I went to explore, accompanied by Mr. Banks. 

“A walk by the river front brought one into contact with 
hundreds of Sadhus or fakirs, who were located near the water, and 
who were daily fed by the local Mohunt, or Abbot, of the Temple 
monastery. These ascetic devotees were from all parts of India, and 
managed to attract a good deal of attention and reap no mean harvest 
of pice from thereligious public. Ostensibly they had come to the Mela 
to acquire further merit ; most of them were very dirty, their almost 
naked bodies being smeared with dust, in which they seemed to revel. 
Their long and matted hair, plaited with tow so as to appear longer 
still, was usually bunched above their heads in a huge filthy crown. 
Some were smoking ganja (a narcotic like opium) and presented a 
peculiarly degraded appearance. Others, of another type, were 
engaged in reading their sacred books, and I saw several faces of real 
interest. Almost every brow bore the mark of Shiva, and indicated at 
a glance the religious profession of the devotee. Asa rule they were 
delighted to be photographed, and were prepared to take down their 
hair and show its length, and to give themselves an extra smear of 
dirt before facing the camera. One wondered what the life-story of 
some amongst them might be, and their pictures formastudyinSadhus | 
of absorbing interest. As we moved through the vast throng, new 
faces crowded into the ever-moving picture, faces peering at one with 
a mixture of cupidity, suspicion, or interest. Under an ancient 
umbrella a fakir reclined on his couch of nails. But on inspection the 
nails were many of them blunt and twisted, and a light man could 
without much danger emulate the performance, the weight being 
largely borne by a bolster which was devoid of spikes. The wooden 
sandals were, however, covered with nasty little nails, and I certainly 
should not like to have worn them. I noticed that the fakir shared 
my aversion, for when he rose to walk, he did so with bare feet, care- 
fully leaving the torture sandals behind. 

‘* The climax of the Mela was reached at full moon, which this 
year occurred about 6 a.m. Immediately after that hour bathing in 
the Gandak is considered specially meritorious. I was early at work 
with my cinema camera, and engaged a cargo-boat to float with the 


87 


LIFE OF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


current past the entire frontage of about two miles, crowded with 
myriads of bathers, all anxious to share in whatever benefit accrued 
to those who could press down into the sacred waters. It wasamazing, 
enthralling and pathetic. And the pathos was not so much in the 
innumerable multitudes as in the units of that vast crowd. To see 
the rapt faces of worshippers, whose eyes were lifted towards the 
rising sun, and whose hands were clasped in adoration, as they stooped 
dripping in the stream; to watch some old woman, or smiling boy, 
scattering the pink and white blossoms, just purchased, on the bosom 
of the flowing waters, a floral offering to ‘Mother Ganges ’—to see 
them, old and young, rich and poor, high-caste and low-caste, mingling 
in the flowing river, dipping, laving themselves and their little ones, 
religious aspirations mingling with the sheer joy of the morning dip, 
was a Sight never to be forgotten. 

“Some were going down into the waters, as at Bethesda of old, 
expecting, ever hoping—and then the boat swept us on, and we lost 
sight of a pathetic face, the individual being once more merged in the 
confusion of the crowd. I recorded it all on the flying film, and am 
looking forward with eager expectation to help my friends to under- 
stand something of the fascination and pathos of an Indian throng. 

**« When He saw the multitudes, He was moved.’ And the test 
of the crowd 1s with us still! How does it affect us? With far-off 
faint interest, so soon forgotten ? Or are we driven, with the Saviour 
of men, to a deep compassion that finds expression in renewed prayer, 
and in deeper devotion ? 

“With the fading of day the scene was wrapped in the warm 
mystery of tropic night. Fires were kindled throughout the vast 
encampment, their red lights flickering through the gloom. Gradually 
the mist of evening rose, gathering in its grey arms the floating clouds 
of dust and smoke, until a murky mantle, each moment becoming 
denser and more acrid, hung heavy in the air, like some mephitic pall. 
Eyes ran with tears, and the missionary Sahib, returning after the 
prolonged open-air meeting, coughed and coughed again. By a 
thousand hearths the evening meal is preparing. Quaint Indian music, 
accompanied by the dull insistent throb of the tom-tom, falls upon the 
ear. Over the flowing river is the brooding of a great calm, but ashore 
the voices of the Mela are still heard. The Nautch dancers are making 
their rounds, and sin lurks amidst the bamboo groves. 


88 


INDIA. 


Gradually the lights disappear, one by one, and Orion with his 
glittering sword keeps watch over a sleeping host.” 


From Motihari itself Dr. Guinness wrote : 

“Tam greatly impressed by Behar already. It isso different from 
the thirsty country I passed through when crossing the Central 
Provinces, before reaching these green and lovely regions. The 
R.B.M.U. property here is far finer than I supposed and far more 
charming. Mrs. Hodge has the place bright with flowers and lovely 
shrubs, and the lawns and trees are most pleasing. ee 


(Later) “ . . . . I am making the most of my tour and . 
I have certainly gleaned facts in my one month that many mission- 
aries have not known in twenty years. Things seem specially to have 
happened that have forwarded my quest. There has been much 
appreciation of the meetings and very much encouragement. I could 
easily spend all my life in Indian work. 

Se oee. teks This week the Mohurrum festival occurred in 
Motihari, and about twenty-five thousand people were scouring 
through the streets following the Mohammedan musician and the huge 
and gaudy standards, some of which were about thirty feet to fifty feet 
high.” 


Christmas was spent at Motihari, and the following account of the © 
festival appeared in Regions Beyond (March, 1914) : 


‘“‘ Christmas week was deemed a fitting time for a United Gathering 
in Motihari of all the workers and adherents of the Behar Mission. 
Siwan, Gopal Ganj, Champatia, and the various out-stations sent their 
contingents, and although the counting of heads is to be deprecated, it 
was on this occasion an expedient, both necessary and heartening. 
Including orphans and other children, the company numbered about 
one hundred and fifty, and at the Christmas Morning Service the 
muster rose toytwo hundred—a cheering sight. December 24 was the 
Conference Day proper. The topic set for discussion was ‘ The Indian 
Church in Saran and Champaran,’ and it was headed on the familiar 
lines of Self-Support, Self-Government and Self Propagation. The 
afternoon was devoted to Sectional Meetings for Bible women, bigger 


89 


LIFE OF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


Indian girls, European children and smaller Indian children. While 
these were being held, the men were startling Motihari by marching 
through the town singing hymns and preaching at strategic points. 
In the evening a great multitude gathered for a Lantern Service. 
The programme for Christmas Day will speak for itself: 8.30 a.m., 
Devotional Service ; 9.30 a.m., Christmas Service, when Dr. Guinness 
preached by interpretation; afternoon, United Tea and Thanks- 
giving Service, with silver collection, followed by a Christmas Tree in 
the evening. All who attended seemed lifted up and strengthened.” 

“It was a happy suggestion that Behar should send a love token 
to the Congo, and it was enthusiastically agreed to give Rs. 25 
(£1 13s. 4d.) from the silver collection to the Congo Mission Semi- 
Jubilee Fund. The collection itself amounted to £2 4s., and we have 
seldom seen a more pleasing sight than the folk, young and old, with an 
occasional Hindu and Mohammedan among them, coming forward 
smiling and willingly to give their love darg to the Congo.” 


The following letters (received since his death) show the happy 
memories left among our Indian fellow-Christians there, by Dr. 
Guinness’s visit, and especially among the boys of the Mission School, 
in whose company he greatly delighted. A sad sequel, however, was 
the death of Mr. and Mrs. Hodge’s young daughter, Margaret, on 
March 23, 1913. Asher father wrote of her: ‘‘ She lives in a hundred 
hearts to-day, an unselfish, inspiring influence.” 


To Mrs. Guinness: 
MotTIHart, INDIA. 
June 24, 1915. 
From Ram Duart SINHA, L.T.M.S., 
MEDICAL PRACTITIONER, 
MAGISTRATE AND MeL. VicE-CHAIRMAN. 

May God the Almighty grant you health and strength to bear this 
severe calamity. We remember the visit of Dr. Guinness to Motihari 
with gratitude, and we shall never forget the valuable addresses he 
delivered to the members of the Bible Class and the Mutual Improvement 
Society, Motihari. He was a true Christian gentleman, and we cherish. 


his memory. 
Mission Houssg, 


From THE INDIAN Boys. Stwan, INpra. 
IT am in the ocean of sorrow and distress to hear of the death of dear 

Dr. Guinness. All we boys are overwhelmed with grief at the sad news, 

because last year we saw him and each of us made him our friend. 


90 


INDIA. 


Oh! when I remember, Doctor, those promises and advices he 
gave to me while only I used to go out with him and specially his last 
words when he said to me, “‘ Baharan, I will remember you and will do all 
what I can for you,” I become more and more sorrowful. 


What more shall I write to solace you? Only He who makes us 
sorry can give us real peace. With much love, 
I remain, your Indian boy. 
YuNAS BAHARAN. 


From this happy stay among the Mission stations of the R.B.M.U., 
Dr. Guinness went on to visit Bankepur, Dinapur, Jamalpur, and the 
other places mentioned in his itinerary (page 81). ‘“‘ Last week,” he 
wrote from Delhi, “‘ I have been through the Mutiny area, and lived 
again through those terrible days. How suffering teaches, and how 
little nations, as individuals, learn apart from the furnace.” 

At Jamalpur he addressed meetings in connection with the Railway 
Y.M.C.A., which were well attended and much valued, especially the 
Talk to Young Men. The Secretary, Mr. Pollock, wrote: ‘“ There 
were one hundred and sixty men present, all Europeans and Anglo- 
Indians. It wasa very straight and solemn word .. . A Branch of 
the Alliance of Honour was formed as a result of thisaddress. He was 
entreated to return to Jamalpur before leaving India, so accordingly he 
spent January 29 and 30 there. He addressed one meeting on the 
subject of the Congo, and at another—a Drawing Room Meeting—he’ 
spoke on “‘ Impressions of India,”’ seeking thereby to awaken interest 
among the Europeans in Indian Mission work. 

In March he re-embarked at Bombay, spending a week in Egypt 
on the way home and reaching England on April 11, 1914. 

In the following letter home, he sums up the convictions matured 


on the voyage. 


GULF OF SUEZ, March 29, 1914. 

“ My feeling with regard to India is that we are fallen on times of 
great responsibility and privilege in being called upon to labour in so 
marvellous a land in these days of its awakening to a sense of national 
existence, and that the renaissance of China and the East is finding its 
counterpart in India, with greater complexity of problems than are to 
be found in China or Japan. Things are moving rapidly, and we have 


91 


LiFe oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


to play our part in the changing scene, helping rightly to influence 
the Empire that is yet to be. 

“In the Colonies you have the thrill of a young country and of 
formative conditions. There isa sense that your labour is making for 
the upbuilding of the Commonwealth and that each unit counts. The 
same istrue of India. It isthe re-birth of the ancient peoples, andeach 
good, strong man counts. What wisdom and grace is needed ! 

“The architect of the New Delhi is on board, and his young 
assistant. Heis engaged on thecity that is yet to be, and works onthe 
realization of that vision. At present they are only making roads and 
laying foundations. It is all very ugly and uninspiring to the un- 
initiated spectator. But by and bye the new capital will stand com- 
pleted in the beauty of its design and the dignity of its architecture, 
and men will say how well worth while was all the vast expenditure 
and years of toil. 

“Tt is ours to make the foundations good, and perhaps, very soon 
to do more than that, for there are signs of a wider awakening in 
Behar.” 


CHAPTER VIII. 


LAST YEARS AT HOME. 
1910-1915. 


but in the main singularly happy. During the years that 

followed his return from the Congo in 1910, however, Dr. 

Harry Guinness was to pass through much that had till then 
been spared him. Not with impunity are the warriors of Christ 
suffered to defeat the prince of this world in his own stronghold. 
Still we know that the counter-attack can only go as far as God 
permits ; and as will be seen, just before the end, He set His sealina 
wonderful way to the life work of His servant. This is not the placeto 
dwell upon the personal trials which none can escape, or the bereave- 
ments he had already experienced by the loss in succession of his mother 
(already referred to) ; of a beloved child, little Meg, who died Christ- 
mas, 1897, a few weeks after her grandmother; of his sister Lucy, 
Mrs. Karl Kumm, in August, 1906; and of Dr. H. Grattan Guinness, 
senior, who passed away on June 21, 1910, while his son was on the 
Congo. 

For this father he cherished a profound veneration, as a true 
evangelist, teacher and seer. Dr. Grattan Guinness entirely lacked 
his son’s practical talents, but the latter in his world-wide journeys had 
found everywhere the traces of his parent’s work, in permanently 
changed lives, in expositions of Scriptural prophecy, studied and 
valued by leading minds, in undertakings begun under his inspiration, 
both in the old world andthe new.* When passing through Phila- 


*The Missionary Training Institutes founded by Dr. A. Gordon, at 
Boston, by Dr. Mabie, at Minneapolis, and the Sudan Mission, founded 
at a Conference of Y.M.C.A. Secs. at Kansas City. 


ye foregoing pages have told the story of a life strenuous indeed, 


93 


LiFe oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


delphia one time it was his privilege to address a meeting specially 
convened for those who had received blessing through Dr. Grattan 
Guinness in 1859. ‘‘ Our father was converted through your father,” 
said two fine young men to him in Brisbane, “and now we are led 
to God through you.” The abiding character of this work, much 
of it accomplished before he himself was born, led him to study with 
special care his father’s accounts of it, as recorded in journals and note- 
books. He himself prepared for the press, though he did not altogether 
write, the memorial sketch which appeared in January, 1911,* and it 
was his wish to bring out a fuller biography, and also to republish some 
of his father’s works on prophetic subjects, especially Light for the Last 
Days and Creation Centred in Christ. The former book he carried about 
with him everywhere during the last months of his life, and frequently 
referred to it both in public and private. 

These literary projects, however, he was unable to fulfil, for the 
Gospel Missions he was constantly invited to carry on, together with 
his work as President of the Alliance of Honour, absorbed all the time 
that could be spared from the now urgent affairs of the Union, the 
resources of which had been much strained for several years. Though 
the annual income was steadily rising, the very success of the various 
missions connected with the Regions Beyond Missionary Union— 
viz., the Congo, Behar, Peru and Argentina, necessitated an ever- 
growing expenditure, which outran the income. Thus a deficit 
overhung the work, which, instead of diminishing as was hoped, 
increased from vear to year. A further, but unavoidable, expense was 
the erection in 1908 of the new College buildings. These had long 
been urgently required and money had been subscribed for this 
particular purpose. The ground too (forming part of the garden of 
Harley House) had been acquired years before under the condition 
of building within a given time, and when the London County Council 
refused to sanction the existing buildings, delay was no longer possible. 
The crisis thus brought about inevitably led to the reduction of expense 
in other directions. The Missions in Peru and Argentina (both, but 
the former especially, in a prosperous condition) were transferred tothe 
direction of the Evangelical] Union of South America in 1911 (as afore- 
said). The Indian and African Missions could not be given up, but the 
directors felt obliged to discontinue the training of men and women for 

*Issued as the January No. of Regions Beyond. 


94 


Last YEARS AT Home. 


other societies until the deficit should be wiped out. Harley College 
was therefore closed and the new building, which Dr. Guinness had 
endeavoured to make worthy of its purpose, was leased for some time 
to the London Hospital as a Nurses’ Home. The few students still in 
training for Behar and the Congo were lodged in Harley House, until 
the outbreak of the war in 1914 made it necessary to disband these 
also, and they at once took up Y.M.C.A. work among the men of the 
new armies. The Deaconess House, Doric Lodge, was closed earlier 
in the same year, and soon afterwards the Nurses’ Training Home at 
Bromley Hall, 

It may well be believed that all these changes were not accom- 
plished without much painful exercise of mind and heart. It was with 
special distress he contemplated even the temporary closing of the 
College, the work his parents had founded and with which his early 
Christian life had been so closely intertwined. Much effort, too, was 
needed now to raise the funds necessary to pay off the debt on the 
Mission, and to this Dr. Guinness addressed himself from 1910 onwards 
with an energy all his own. 

Meanwhile he still kept up the gratuitous services he had 
been wont to render to the cause of Christ. Latterly he had 
been also an occasional and valued speaker at the Keswick 
Convention; but until the Indian tour, described in the last 
chapter, the chief outside work of this period was done in con- 
nection with the Alliance of Honour. This Association had been 
formed precisely to forward and strengthen the kind of work among 
young men which ever since his hospital days had been so near 
his heart and which, in fact, he had never ceased to carry on. Thus 
he had been in a very real sense a medical missionary to thousands. 
Even in the days of his early Australian missions, the idea of leaguing 
together all those who had taken the special pledge had often been 
mooted, but it was not till about 1901 that the Alliance of Honour was 
founded, quite independently of him and on a very modest scale. 
It was, indeed, nothing more than a little mutual society, with eight to 
ten members, having as one of its most significant rules: ‘ The 
meetings shall open and close with prayer.’”’ This spirit of prayer has 
from the first been fostered by the two founders, Mr. E. Bagnall and 
Mr. Alfred B. Kent, who, thanks to the rapid extension of the work, 
are now Joint Acting Directors of a society which numbers over forty- 


9 


Lire oF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


nine thousand members and hundreds of devoted voluntary workers. 
It possesses, moreover, no less than seventy Vice-Presidents, including 
a large proportion of the Bench of Bishops. To the Directors we are 
indebted for the following details of Dr. Guinness’s connection with the 
Alliance of Honour. 


“When in the latter part of 1902 the pioneers were seeking 
guidance as to who should be the President of the new movement, it so 
transpired that Dr. Harry Guinness was holding a Mission at Dalston, 
in the North of London, and, as his custom was, held two special 
meetings for men only on the Saturday evenings. The pioneers saw 
the announcement, and determined to be present. They felt they had 
been led to the right one for the Presidency, and an interview was 
shortly afterwards arranged. Most sympathetically was the deputa- 
tion received, and whatever help might be in his power to give was 
gladly promised. Dr. Guinness accepted the invitation to preside at a 
public Conference on January 29, 1903, when the Presidency was 
formally accepted. Thenceforward during the twelve years which 
have supervened, he was always ready to place his rich gift of oratory 
at the disposal of the Alliance. True, he was not able to attend the 
business meetings of the Society, but his advice and counsel were 
always to be had for the asking. 


‘““ Dr. Guinness will be most known and remembered throughout 
the ranks of the Alliance in connection with its public meetings, 
ranging from the little town gathering to a vast assembly in the Royal 
Albert Hall, London. He never despised the day of small things, 
knowing how very frequently God had signally blessed it, but 
he had a decided preference for the mass meeting, and his eye 
would kindle and his step assume an accentuated elasticity (it 
alwavs was elastic) as he strode on to the platform of a well packed 
meeting. 

“At the ‘Demonstration on behalf of Purity, Honour and Man- 
hood,’ in celebration of the 8th Anniversary at the Great Assembly 
Hall, Mile End, attended by nearly five thousand men, held on May 
25, 1911, the Alliance was privileged to receive, through our good 
friend the Lord Bishop of Durham, a Message of Royal interest, which 
arrived while the meeting was in progress. 


96 


Last YEARS AT Home. 


““« Message from His Most Gracious Majesty THE KING : 
THE BisHop oF DuRHAM, 
Assembly Hall, Mile End Road, E. 

““T am commanded by the Kinc to express his warm 
sympathy with the object of the meeting held this evening in 
connection with the Alliance of Honour, and His Majesty’s 
sincere good wishes for a successful issue. 

KNOLLYS.’ 
“ Dr. Guinness spoke just after the announcement had been made, 
and to him fell the pleasant task of proposing that the following 
acknowledgment be sent : 


“* This enthusiastic gathering of five thousand men assembled in 
the Great Assembly Hall on the occasion of the Annual Meeting of the 
Alliance of Honour is deeply grateful to His Majesty the Kine for 
the sympathetic telegram received from him during the course of the 
meeting. This vast gathering desires to express its loyal appreciation 
of His Majesty’s support in this International Movement tor Purity 
and Honour.’ 


“When recently on a missionary visiting tour in India, he 
addressed meetings of men upon Alliance topics at Bombay, Calcutta 
(four meetings), Poona and Jamalpur, receiving very enthusiastic _ 
receptions. 

* Always an attractive fluent, and remarkably clear speaker, 
with a magnetic personality, there were times when his words rose to 
high oratory well nigh irresistible. : 

“ From time to time the Doctor had the joy of receiving a face to 
face testimony—sometimes at the close of a meeting, sometimes when 
travelling—from those who bore grateful remembrance of the change 
which had come into their life years before, as they had listened to his 
powerful appeal. 

‘* We shall miss his cheery presence, his winning smile, and strong 
yet musical voice, but we can never forget them, and in the great 
work which yet lies before the Alliance, the spirit of its beloved first 
President can never fail to help and influence.” 

Dr. Guinness was alive from the first to the danger of that searing 
of the mind to which social workers in this field are exposed, and in one 


97 


LIFE OF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


of his earliest letters from Australia in 1886 asked earnest prayer that 
he might be kept from it. And he was so kept, for he carried with 
him the true and only antiseptic. 

His general views on the subject may be found in the chapter he 
contributed to the small book entitled Public Morals, published by 
Messrs. Morgan & Scott some years ago, and containing sixteen papers 
by various authorities, including Bishop Barry, Mrs. Josephine Butler, 
Canon Barnett, Dr. Barnardo, Rev. F. B. Meyer and others. It is 
like him in that it dwells upon the personal rather than the social or 
legislative aspects of the problem,* and from the first paragraph 
onwards places it in the white light of the Divine Vision and the Divine 
pity. It was his own brotherly sympathy that gave him such power 
with men. 


“* But when He saw the multitudes, He was moved with compassion 
on them’ (Matt. ix. 36). 

“Ts it not evident that, before the heart can be inclined to succour, 
it must have some realization of the tragedy of life, and, if a permanent 
and practical interest is to be created, it must be built on the rock-bed 
of facts, and not on the shifting sands of sentiment ? I remember 
some years ago meeting a worker amongst young men who was totally 
ignorant of the hell-traps for unwary feet within two hundred yards of 
his office door. Thus to avoid the sad spectacle of human sin surely 


savours more of prudery than purity; ... [What is wanted is] 
systematized effort everywhere to ‘ raise the fallen, cheer the faint, heal 
the sick, and lead the blind’ . . . and bring about that prevention 


which is better than cure.’’ 


“ The pure in heart shall see God.” These words which were found, 
not scribbled, but inscribed in his well-known beautiful hand writing on 
the margin of a carefully studied book (Self knowledge and self disct- 
pline, by the Rev. B. W. Maturin), strike the keynote of his whole 
attitude towards this grave question. The pledge, the warnings, the 
stainless life itself were to him not an end in themselves, but a means to 
an end, namely, “the knowledge of God in the face of Jesus Christ.”’ 

*He by no means ignored these aspects, but felt his own Mission was 

to the individual rather than to the community. It may be mentioned 
that he was strongly opposed to legislative regulation, as, in his own 
words, ‘‘ always tending to be permissive in character.” 


98 


Last YEARS AT Home. 


The article above quoted concludes with these words to those he sought 
to help : 


“ For practical deliverance look alone to Him who is ‘ able to save 
to the uttermost those that come unto GOD by Him.’ And salvation 
is only possible by a hearty repentance, which no longer ‘regards 
iniquity ’ in the heart, but which turns towards that ‘ fountain for sin 
and uncleanness ’ which cleanses from all stain. Let none despair of 
such repentance, since JESUS is exalted to bestow it on seeking souls, 
as also the influences of the HOLY SPIRIT, whose gracious indwelling 
dispels the dark night of sin. 

“ Optimism.—Above all, let that glorious optimism, the legitimate 
possession alone of those who rejoice in a risen Redeemer, be the 
inspiration of every worker. Despondency is only an indication of 
scepticism. Faith that ‘worketh by love,’ and ‘believeth all 
things,’ is for those who are called to the conflict by the Captain of our 
Salvation.” 


He concluded with the following quotation : 


“BE STRONG. 
(JosHua i, 5-7.) 


“* Be strong ! 
We are not here to play, to dream, to drift. 
We have hard work to do, and loads to lift. 
Shun not the struggle; face it. ’Tis GOD’S gift. 


Be strong ! 
Say not the days are evil—Who’s to blame ? 
And fold the hands and acquiesce—Oh, shame ! 
Stand up, speak out, and bravely, in GOD’S name. 


Be strong ! 
It matters not how deep entrenched the wrong, 
How hard the battle goes, the days how long ; 
Faint not, fight on! To-morrow comes the song! ”’ 


It is only just to his memory to speak of this special ministry of 
his to young men, for of all the undertakings of his life it was the most 
original and the one peculiarly his own. In Evangelism, in the Mission 

*Maltbie D. Babcock. ae E 


J it 
‘ a 
\\¥ 

f wy 


99 


7 

; “ tA : 

f ELKHAS 

4 ri »/ 

| iIRDARY 
LIBR | 


Lire oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


field, in the Training College, he followed where others had led the way, 
and maintained what others had initiated. But in this particular 
work he struck out, or rather, was providentially led, into a path of his 
own from the very first, blazing the trail for many who have since 
followed it. It is true that others have done work equally valuable 
and far more conspicuous in this connexion,* but he undoubtedly had 
a special vocation in it, as a physician of souls, the proof of which is 
seen in the difficulty of finding or even imagining a successor to fill 
his exact place. 

This work was extended rather than interrupted during the 
Indian tour of 1913-14, and fresh opportunities were created after the 
outbreak of war among the training camps of new armies. 

But the last year of his life was almost entirely absorbed in the 
Gospel preaching which had been the passion of his youth. Between 
June, 1914, and April, 1915, he conducted in different places no less 
than thirteen Missions, lasting from ten days to a fortnight each, 
besides addressing meetings for soldiers at Preston, Colchester, Ports- 
mouth and Aldershot, where he spent a week. Amid the lists of 
engagements is one characteristic note in his memorandum book: 


March17, Wednesday. ‘St. Patrick. Keep for home.” 


During all these Missions he held afternoon Bible Readings on 
the subject of the second Advent, which increasingly absorbed his 
thoughts. His last three active days were given to soldiers; on the 
6th of April, at Portsmouth and Southsea, where he had already 
held a week’s Mission ; on the 8that Maidstone, and on the 9th at the 
Duke of York’s School, Chelsea, inthe Y.M.C.A. huts. Much blessing 
rested on all these Missions. Though many of them were but small 
and humble gatherings, he gave to them of his best. The dinner-hour 
meeting at Chelsea was the very last he took, and the next day he was 
prostrated by the illness which eventually proved fatal. 

This sudden breakdown, which no one could foresee, had been 
providentially arranged for. Shortly before, he had begged the 
Directors to release him from all the administrative work of the Union, 
so that while continuing to be its advocate wherever he went, he could 
devote himself primarily to Gospel preaching. The Directors agreed 

*As, e.g., the late Professor Drummond (to name only one). 


100 


Last YEARS AT Home. 


to this and cordially fell in with his suggestion to ask his friend, the 
Rey. D. F. McKenzie, M.A., B.D., to undertake the direction at Harley 
House. When the latter received at this very time an invitation 
from the Presbyterian Church, opposite to Harley House, to become 
its Minister, the way for him to accept was made quite plain. Thus 
the call, when it came, brought no dislocation to the work, thanks to 
the strenuous efforts made, the deficit has been much diminished and, 
wonderful to say, about three weeks before the end, a legacy of over 
£2,000 was received from Australia—one result of his Mission there in 
1901, and almost his last conscious act was to endorse this cheque, 
which finally paid off the debt that had burdened his heart and the 
Mission itself so long. It was, as it were, the Divine vindication of 
his life’s work. 

During the first week of his illness, he spoke frequently of his 
father’s prophetic studies and of the Lord’s return: two kindred 
subjects which had so constantly occupied his mind during the pre- 
ceding months. But the malady increased, and gradually he sank. 
Three operations were performed, but without success. The one who 
was constantly with him records: “‘ He was kept very quiet and full 
of peace. This was his prayer while waiting for the surgeons: “Lord, 
Thy work has been a great joy all these years, and we pray Thee that 
we may still be allowed to work for Thee, to this end give the surgeons 
skill and wisdom, and bless our Directors and make them men of faith.’ 
Never a murmur, such patience and goodness in taking food, etc. . . . 
Hehas rest, deeprest of heart . . . . Onecanasknomore. Hekeeps. 
When Sambridge came to see him on, I think, Saturday, the 15th, 
he looked up and smiled, and said, ‘ Why, it’s Sambridge, let me get 
my hands out !’ reaching them both out to him, and then with such 
a lovely light on his face, “We don’t see our old friend every 
day,’ and the faithful operator just took the two hands in his, and, 
bowing down, kissed them reverently—such a scene as none who were 
there can ever forget, perhaps the most touching of all those 
days.”’ 

When at last he learnt in answer to his own inquiry that the 
doctors had little hope of his recovery, he was tenderly asked, “ Are 
you glad?” His answer came slowly: ‘“‘ How could I be? and how 
could I not be ? ”’ adding, as if to himself, “‘ Still young—life has been 
short—I might have lived another thirty years!” 


101 


Lire oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


On Whitsunday there was a slight rally and he even endeavoured 
to join in the hymns being sung at family worship in the home, but it 
proved to be only a flicker. The family gathered round him, his only 
sister, Mrs. Howard Taylor, his cousin, his son-in-law, Mr. Ian 
Mackenzie, and of his seven sons and two daughters all assembled 
except the eldest son, who was serving his country in the trenches. 
He gradually sank, and on May 25, 1915, the end came at the early age 
of fifty-three. 

The funeral service was conducted by Canon Joynt at Christ 
Church, Gipsy Hill, S.E., on May 28, and the precious dust was 
laid to rest in the little churchyard at Sanderstead, Surrey. The tomb- 
stone bears the inscription : 


** With Christ—Far better, 
They that turn many to righteousness 
Shall shine as the stars for ever and ever.” 


FINIS. 


102 


SF arefuell ! 


And though the tuaps of Zion mourn 
When ber strong ones are called atuay, 
Who like thyself babe calmly borne 
The beat and burden of the dap. 
Bet Be Who slumbereth not, nor sleepeth, 
Bis ancient watch around us keepeth ; 
Still sent from Bis creating band 
Meo tuitnesses for Truth shall stand— 
Nelo instruments to sound abroad 
Gbhe Gospel of a Risen Lord. 


Whittier. 


(One of the passages marked by Dr. Harry Guinness in his pocket edition at the 
Congo, at the time of John McKittrick’s death). 


he Sethe ; 


APPENDIX. 


ADDRESSES GIVEN AT THE MEMORIAL SERVICE OF 
Dr. H. GRATTAN GUINNESS, 
ON JUNE 15, 1915, AT THE KINGSWAY HALL. 


[The opening Address was given by the Chairman, the Rt. Hon. Lord 
Kinnaird, and is more or less embodied in his preface to this volume.] 


Address by W. McApam Ecctzs, Esq., M.R.CS. 
(Representing the Committee of The Regions Beyond Missionary Union. ) 


Lord Kinnaird, and fellow brothers and sisters of our Lord Jesus 
Christ. 

It happens by an accidental rearrangement of speakers this 
evening that I come first to address you in the memory of a man, 
but a man who was redeemed by the precious blood of Jesus Christ, 
the Lamb without blemish. Will you forgive me if I just, ina word or 
two, give you a personal reminiscence of my introduction to our 
brother who has gone to be with Jesus ? 

It was when I myself was thirteen years of age, and he was 
twenty. He was just at that time in the midst of his work a’ a medical 
student. I was looking forward to the day, not very far off, when I 
should enter upon the curriculum for the same profession. And I shall 
never forget how I met Harry Guinness, and immediately plunged into 
the life work which we both had in view. I recollect also so well his 
scheming even then for what his profession should do in the service of 
Jesus Christ. I felt, as a young lad, an inspiration from the man just 
entering upon manhood, that he had made up his mind—yes, it is 
a making up one’s mind—that his professional abilities shotild be 
placed at the feet of His Lord and Master. 


105 


Lire oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


Several years afterwards, when he was qualified, many a person has 
said—sometimes to me—‘‘ Why has that man of such ability cast aside 
the actual profession that he has taken up, and become a leader in 
missionary work ?’’ Because he felt the call that brought our Lord from 
above, the value of human souls. And then, when that mantle of his 
beloved father and of his beloved mother had fallen upon that young 
life, he was endued with power. He looked the world over, and saw 
how vast the need and how slightly it had been met. There is only 
one other man, Mr. Chairman, frankly, that I put on a level with the 
one who is gone, and that is Mr. John Mott. His outlook over the 
universe is profound, and his power of grasping the points where a . 
work should be done. is great ; but Harry Guinness had the power 
not only to grasp the profundity of the work and the strategic points 
wherein it should be commenced or strengthened, but he had that 
wonderful power of enthusing men and women to carry out the work 
that their Lord and Master desired of them. 

Let me add, it has been my privilege to be associated with him, 
I think I may say, without a break through the whole of his missionary 
period. 

There are two points that are upon my mind as outstanding 
features of his life. One was his absolute devotion to his Lord and 
Master and the extension of His Kingdom; the other was his un- 
bounded enthusiasm for the work of God. 

His devotion! He gave up much, some thought he gave up a 
great deal too much. It may beso. His devotion was such that it 
simply made those who came in contact with him realize it must be 
one thing only, or nothing, in the work for the Master. 

And then his enthusiasm ! Some of us used to almost shudder at 
it, fearing where it might carry him to. Some of us in the Councils 
were cautious, hanging back where really God desired that we should 
goforward, Some of us on the Councils felt that, perhaps, the schemes 
were too big. But if it had not been for his enthusiasm, for his large- 
sightedness, where would the Kingdom of God be to-day; where 
would those vast millions of benighted persons be to-day ? His life 
has been cut short, as we say. But he lived to see such changes 
nevertheless that he with us can now rejoice in the wonderful work of 
God in that basin of the Congo river. 

As I said, it has been my privilege to be associated with that 
Mission for a good many years. Many a time he has come to me, and 
in the quiet of my room we have had an hour or two hours’ talk 
together over difficult and knotty questions, but always he has gone 
away with the strong, firm belief that God was in it all) That His 
Kingdom would come. 


106 


APPENDIX. 
Address by Rev. F. B. MEYER, D.D. 


Lord Kinnaird, and my Christian Friends, 

There is a strange note of triumph ringing through our hearts, 
like a clarion call. We seem to be standing at the opening door 
through which a flood of light is pouring down upon us. And as 
for a few moments we stand on the battlefield, it is hardly to com- 
memorate one who has died, but one who has passed, and whose spirit ; 
gallant, generous, heroic, will always seem to be in front of us, leading 
still our march. 

There was an irresistible charm about him. To be with him was 
to be revived and to be inspired with the ideals which were always 
glowing through upon his heart. But with all his gifts, with all his 
power, with all his fascination, the most charming thing about him 
was his sincere love for our Lord. You might differ from him often, 
and not wholly be able to keep pace with him ; but when he knelt in 
prayer we were all with him. He hada marvellous power of touching 
the deepest chords of individual feeling, and making them vibrate 
to that touch by which he was able to move the oldest and most 
experienced child of God, and the youngest and the most passionate 
and enthusiastic. 

It has been a remarkable story. First through the failure of 
Mrs. Guinness’s health, and then through the absorption of his father 
in those far-seeing views of truth which are lighting all of us through 
the present gloom, Dr. Harry was early called to lead at Harley 
House, and the many responsibilities of that place gathered upon his 
young shoulders alltoo early. Yet how nobly he bore them, how truly 
he was enabled, and upon how many hundreds of young men and ~ 
women he has laid his hand and made his mark. 

And this is one of the most wonderful things I have known in 
my life. Before he was taken ill, he was sitting at the Directors’ 
Meeting at Harley, about three and a half months ago, when he rose 
up there and said that he wanted to be relieved of some of his work. 
He felt he was called to be an evangelist, and he was dedicating the 
rest of his life more specially to home missions, which would always 
culminate in missionary zeal. He asked his directors to relieve him 
of that part of his service. We were greatly startled, and still more 
so when he said: I want to designate my successor. And we were 
all blind, not knowing what we did any more, I suppose, than he did. 

Mr. Mackenzie was named. He was approached. And in the 
glow, when Dr. Harry was passing through the open door into 
Paradise, Mr. Mackenzie that morning arrived in London to take charge 
at Harley House. A most marvellous arrangement! Mr. Mackenzie, 


107 


Lire oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


if God ever called you to service, He called you to take up andcarry on 
the work that Dr. Harry imposed. I congratulate you, my friend. 
We do not all of us have so clear a designation and so marvellous an 
ordination as you have received from the Piercéd Hand of Christ. 

But a still more wonderful thing happened We were living 
through marvellous developments, but for a long time there had been 
an incubus of debt upon our work which had greatly cramped and 
limited it, and the burden lay very heavily upon Dr. Harry Guinness 
and his beloved wife. A little before his decease a cheque came from 
the Antipodes for some £2,300, which entirely wiped out the liability 
that was remaining. And with his trembling hand he was able, letter 
by letter, with the greatest effort to endorse the cheque. A sacred 
cheque, it seems to me. I would love to keep it, and have it framed. 
God Almighty freed him from the last anxiety about the debt, so that 
he might go to Heaven feeling that he could look the whole world in 
the face, for he owed no man anything. It was a very beautiful 
release that God gave him, one of those wonderful touches of the love 
of God which shows that He is behind all, and in all, and through all. 
It makes you trust God and feel the sweetness of the beauty of God, 
that He wants to honour His servant who has honoured Him. 

All I can say about this, and I put it to you, my friends, is that 
to-day at their meeting the Directors wanted to minute it and to put 
it down as a fact that now they were freed from all liability they would 
never recede from that position, but keep level between expenditure 
and income. I think God Almighty has shown us that He prefers 
that we should, or He would not have cleared Dr. Harry before he went. 

One thing more. Dr. Harry some six years ago was set on com- 
pleting the property at Harley House, and surely it is by his initiative 
and by his direction that the magnificent pile of buildings was erected 
at the end of the piece of ground upon which Harley House itself stands. 
It cost a great sum of money, but it is empty. The College is dis- 
continued. We are not now training young men and women because 
our funds do not permit. Are you not going—I ask you in the name 
of the Directors—are you not going to enable us as Directors, in memory 
of Dr. Harry, to open again those premises for the service of God in 
the training of young men ? Would not that be the highest and best 
memorial to him who is gone ? 

We want to havea Guinness Memorial Fund. 

Why should not the Christian sentiment of this moment inaugu- 
rate a Memorial Fund which will in future time be connected with the 
College and the in ea of which will enable us to take poor students 
who are not able to pay for themselves? So that under Mr. 
Mackenzie’s guidance there may come back again the tide of young 


108 


APPENDIX. 


life that used once to fill the halls of Harley College. Will you help us 
to carry on this work ? May God help us also to be as like our Lord 
Jesus Christ as he was who is gone. 


Address by Mr. AtBErT A. HEap, 
CHAIRMAN OF KESwIcK CONVENTION. 


I think that the addresses we have already listened to have been 
most remarkable. As Mr. Meyer spoke of that very remarkable 
incident of the £2,000, and as the witness streamed from the lips of 
dear Mr. Holden in regard to the life and character of our beloved 
brother, there flashed over my mind the Holy Writ which seemed to 
express one’s heart and the very glory of the Lordrevealed here. — 

“O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge 
of God! How unsearchable are His judgments, and His ways past 
finding out! For who hath known the mind of the Lord, or who hath 
been His counsellor, or who hath given to Him which shall not be 
recompensed again ?”’ 

To me has been entrusted the privilege of saying a few words 
about our sainted brother from the standpoint of Keswick. I have 
known him for years, and the attenders at this well-known Convention 
hailed his presence as one of the added joys of listening to words for 
ever bright and interesting, illustrative and penetrating, appealing to 
the inner desires and longings for the deeper life in God. His world- 
wide experience of Missionary work in India, in Africa, in Australia, 
in North and South America, enabled him to grasp the great things 
of the Bible and to make his message peculiarly facile,and yet definitely - 
appealing and enlightening to those who were seeking information, 
but more especially to those who were being called out by the Great 
Shepherd of the flock to go forth into the dark places of the earth. 

How he helped in the singing and the speaking in the Market 
Place at Keswick ; or in the early days when he brought his cornet out 
by the lake, sometimes to give impetus to the singing in the Tent ! 
The ministers of the Free Churches were eager for his message, and 
those who attended the service invariably profited by his earnest 
addresses; the message of the Cross, the message of the Christ as 
Saviour from the guilt and penalty, as well as the power of sin; the 
message of an indwelling Christ through the blessed Holy Spirit ; the 
message of a Coming King in Glory, the hope of all His saints, were 
alike to Harry Guinness the expression of a God-begotten desire and 
enduement of the Spirit winning men and women from the thraldom 
of fallen human nature, and leading them to Him who alone can save 
tothe uttermost those who come unto God through Jesus Christ. 


109 


LiFe OF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


Those familiar with the Keswick Convention will greatly miss our 
beloved brother, and the Council unitedly passed a resolution of tender 
and cordial sympathy with Mrs. Guinness and the family to-day. We 
shall see him no more within those tents of meeting by the lake side, 
but we shall join in the unfathomed assurance given by the Apostle 
John to-night : ‘‘ Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from 
henceforth: Yea, saith the Spirit, for they rest from their labours ; 
and their works do follow them.” 


Address by Rev. GEORGE GRUBB. 


Lord Kinnaird and Christian friends, My beloved Harry Guinness 
will always stand before me pre-eminently as an evangelist, a bearer of 
good tidings. 

He was born in 1861. By the age of twelve the light of the know- 
ledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ had reached his 
own soul. Then he gave himself up night and day to the study of the 
Scriptures, and he profited therefrom. At the age of eighteen, the Voice 
of the Spirit of God said within his heart : Go, and proclaim what you 
havelearned. And like every trueand fiery soul, he beganat home... . 
I can bear witness here of Harry Guinness’s missions in Australia. 
Three years after he had left there I found myself in Australia. There 
were many then who came up to me with smiling faces, and I would 
say, “How are you?” “ Very well, thank you.” ‘“‘ And where did 
you find the Lord?” ‘‘When Dr. Harry Guinness was here.” 
Amongst them were many who confessed that they had been agnostics 
and unbelievers, and that agnosticism and unbelief and infidelity had 
been destroyed for ever in them through the testimony of Dr. Harry 
Guinness. It was lovely to see in those souls that had been held by 
unbelief and agnosticism, now shining the joy of God. I bear that 
testimony joyfully. 

And thus he went on. He came back home again and began 
evangelistic work here in England, Scotland, Wales, and that work 
remains to this day. He went from strength to strength. One thing 
that struck me very much whenever I heard him preach the Gospel was 
that he always went straight to the consciences of his hearers. He 
was not content with illustrating his subject nicely. He would give the 
very closest reasoning, but he never wascontent withthat. Heknew 
that unless the conscience was convicted, unless a man was brought 
down in his own estimation and brought down before the feet of God, 
nothing was attained. He knew that a man must find war before he 
finds peace. Harry Guinness’s evangelisation was not the mere 
telling of sentimental stories. Ah! no. His evangelisation did not 


110 


APPENDIX. 


depend upon a large choir. His message came straight from the heart 
of God into his own heart, and he poured forth what the Lord God, 
the Holy Spirit had taught him. And those who listened to him felt 
that his message was from God. 

We have heard the testimonies that have been given. There 
was the testimony from the Lord Bishop, from peers of the realm and 
others. But I tell you the testimony that has touched me most. 
It was told to me by Mrs. Guinness. She said that what touched her 
heart came from a very poor woman in the Workhouse, who wrote: 
telling her of the blessing that Harry Guinness’s words had been, and 
of the peace that his evangelisation had brought to her soul. Oh! 
dear young men and women here to-night, give yourselves, without 
reserve, that you may have the joy and peace and love of God flowing 
through your soul. 


Address by Colonel Emswortu. 


Dear Christian friends, I am here to represent the Organisation 
to which I belong, and we all feel, members and officers of 
the organisation, that we have lost a friend in the promotion 
to glory of Dr. Harry Guinness. He did not perhaps believe 
in everything in the Salvation Army, but there was a great 
deal in it that appealed to him and drew out his most tender 
sympathies. And when the news came to us that he was sick, 
the Slum Sisters were found praying for Dr. Harry Guinness, and also 
the Rescue Workers; praying for a friend who always came and 
cheered them and encouraged them in their work of uplifting the fallen 
from the streets of this great city. Z 

I met the Doctor for the first time in Australia. He came to 
Melbourne to conduct a great Mission in that city, and almost the 
first person, I believe, he called upon, was myself. He said: ‘“ You 
must come to help in this Mission.” You know he had such a charm 
with him. I think his was the sunniest face I ever looked into in this 
world. 

Before this Mission he had previously been in Melbourne in 1885, 
and the fruits of that Mission were remaining, as our friend Mr. Grubb 
has borne testimony. I can add further testimony, because some of the 
men who are at the Dardanelles to-night will bless God in life, or may 
be in death, for that Mission of Harry Guinness. In our ranks some 
of our brightest officers of the Salvation Army in Australia bless God 
for that Mission of 1885 that fired their hearts and enabled them to 
come out and give their lives up to Jesus Christ. Never shall I forget 
that Mission in Melbourne. The large Town Hall was crowded to 
the ceiling with men. There was something in what Dr. Harry 


111 


LiFe oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


Guinness said to them, as only he could say it. His knowledge as a 
physician, his experience of the things that he spoke about ; but above 
all that, his spiritual love that seemed to lift him up, so that we felt 
he was raising up a company to the whiteness of chivalry. Iremember 
as the meeting went on, men fainted under his words and had to be 
catried out of the hall. But bless God! others did not faint. In 
penitence they cried, and that night over eighty big men walked 
deliberately into the room behind and gave themselves up to Christ, 
and gave themselves up also to follow Christ in purity as well as in 
service. I can scarcely think that our brother has gone. If he is 
gone, I cannot think that such a life as his is ended. He was a live 
soul. Hecould not bear death in anything that hehadtodo. Ihave 
known him to interrupt a meeting that was a little hard or slow, by 
jumping on the platform and beginning to sing; and almost like 
electricity a new spirit would be brought into the meeting. I think 
that was one of the reasons he had such a kindly feeling towards the 
Salvation Army. It was our brightness and our music and our life 
that appealed to him. Let this service to his memory inspire us to 
carry the real life-spirit with us ; so we may make life wherever we go. 


Address by Dr. Scott LIpDGETT. 


At first sight it seems a very long way to travel from the cultiva- 
tion of the altar fires of the spiritual life in concert with like-minded 
men and women, or from the advocacy and direction of missionary 
enterprise, to the carrying on of a great campaign against the impurity, 
the foulness, the manifold evils that attend our life at home. Yet I 
am sure that every one who hears me will agree when I say that only 
the great qualities for which we have thanked God as we have listened 
to the past speakers could have enabled our friend—or can enable 
anyone—successfully to grapple with the moral evil which weighed so 
heavily upon the heart and taxed the efforts of Dr. Guinness. 

Now, of all responsible tasks that fall upon the founders of 
movements, the task of finding a president is one of the most respon- 
sible. 

Presidents are, for the most part, very exalted persons, somewhat 
distant, somewhat shadowy, and very often totally ineffective. It 
was not so with our friend, I need hardly say.. I think you will agree 
with me that if the choice of presidents is always a responsible and 
difficult work, still more must it be the case in an organisation like the 
Alliance of Honour. It was founded by young men of ardent devotion 
to high ideals, and of burning zeal, to purify the life of the young 
manhood—and therefore the young womanhood—of our country. 
A President of such a Society must, above all, have weight, and, if 


112 


APPENDIX. 


I may use the word, sanctity of character. We can only promote this 
movement in so far as we ourselves have been made and ere being kept 
pure. He must give the fullest recognition to the manifold aspects 
of the great and difficult problem with which we have to deal, and 
while alive to every element of the problem he must keep them all 
in true proportion. And when he comes to handle the subject it must 
be with the utmost tact and delicacy. Frankness must never degenerate 
into coarseness, nor warnings suggest the very evils which we seek to 
avoid. And through all this—character, insight, proportion, delicacy 
—there must be felt the mighty impact of a Christian personality 
standing for strength, for joyous victory, for such satisfaction in the 
highest and holiest as enables the possessor confidently to beckon 
those who are beneath to follow him in s: aling the snow-clad heights 
to which he hasreached. Such a man must not bea shadowy figure in 
the distance, receding into the past. He must be a Captain, a com- 
rade, a living, vitalising and magnetic personality, getting heart to 
heart, hand to hand. He must be full of chivalry, full of gentleness, 
full of heroic courage which enables men—and which alone can enable 
men—to undertake the most difficult, and sometimes the most dis- 
couraging, work to which a servant of God can set his hand ! 


I have tried to delineate the requirements, but I have been able 
to do so because I have read “‘ requirement ”’ as it was met in the great 
poem whom the Founders of this movement asked to be their 
head. 

And who can discharge a nobler task for Christ and for citizenship 
than the great leader in such a crusade ? Wearecoming to see to-day 
that all our national sins are national dangers, that the prospects of © 
the nation in this unparalleled crisis of its fate largely depend upon the 
Purity, the Temperance, the Self-discipline, the reverent Faith of the 
people to whom has been entrusted the noblest charge that has been 
given to any people that stands for Freedom, and Loyalty, and 
Humanity. 

Ah! Harry Guinness did as much to conquer the enemy in 
Flanders and in France as any general in the field. The young man, 
won to the Alliance of Honour, inspired by the magnetism of his 
personality and by his appeal, who has gone out there as a good 
soldier of Jesus Christ, preserved from destructive vice, and enthused 
with the love of holiness and chivalry—that young man, as no other, 
is the guarantee of victory when he comes face to face with the foe ! 
And remember that in fighting this great battle of civilisation and 
citizenship, it is above all the battle of Christ. A great general has 
fallen. If that happened on the field, every man whom he had 
directed and led would be inspired a hundredfold with the desire to 


113 


LiFe oF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


emulate his great example. That is the only memorial of God’s 
saints and heroes that we can worthily set up—to follow them, to 
imitate them, to receive from them the touch of Divine Light and love, 
and hand it on. 


Address by the Rev. J, StuarT HoLpEN, M.A. 


In thinking of a friendship which has existed for twenty years, 
there are words which come.up to my mind—words spoken by an 
apostle on an entirely different occasion, but the only ones which I find 
appropriate—I knew ‘‘a man in Christ.”” These are the only words 
which, to my own mind, at alladequately explain that marvellous per- 
sonality, that burning fiery zeal, that quenchless optimism, and that 
boundless self-sacrifice for which we magnify God in him to-night. 
He was a missionary advocate because he was an enthusiast in the 
deepest and fullest meaning of that word. Philologists cannot agree 
in regard to the derivation of that word. It has two alternative 
variations, one which connects it with the primary thought of sacrifice, 
and the other which connects it with the indwelling of God in the human 
soul, and I venture to say that our beloved friend, Dr. Guinness, 
embodied this double meaning in himself. He lived a life in which 
the red tinge of sacrifice was always prominent, and its explanation 
was that he was a man indwelt of God. 

His missionary interest was by no means confined to those interests 
which centre at Harley House. India claimed him! The Congo 
claimed him! South America claimed him, and I have never seen 
him moved to such fierce eloquence and to such holy indignation as he 
was over the atrocities in the Putumayo district. China claimed his 
sympathy, his prayer, his gift ! He hadcaught from Christ, with whom 
he lived in communion, something of the width of His own vision of 
the great spirit of His own sacrifice. 

His spirit was a restless spirit ; but it was the restlessness of a 
high endeavour of faith. He was restless because he had caught a 
vision of the world brought back to Jesus; because he had heard 
his Master’s command, and it meant more to him to fulfil it than life 
itself. Hence his many-sided interests, and hence the prodigality 
with which he gave himself and poured out those rich gifts, which 
were his to spread forward the gospel of the Lord, and to set further 
back the boundaries of our Lord Jesus Christ. 

He had a wonderful brotherliness. When I was a good deal 
younger than I am now and just beginning to gather my experience 
in the Lord’s work, I do not know any man who by his kindliness and 
sympathy helped me more. We have often seen things differently, 


114 


APPENDIX. 


but I never detected one trace of bitterness, one trace of jealousy, one 
trace of resentment in him. Dr. Meyer and Mr. Mackenzie, perhaps 
alone of those in these doings to-night, will recall a very trying episode 
in his life and ours, perhaps the most trying any man could be called 
to go through. Never for one moment did he cease to be the true 
Christian gentleman ; never for one moment did he lower the standard 
of true Christian dignity; never for one moment did he reproach. 
those who reproached him, but returned with grace, with love, with 
unruffied calm, words which were angrily hurled. 

It is because his enthusiasm was the resultant of the indwelling 
presence and love of God that he never lost his inspiration with the 
years. It deepened! The flame never flickered! it grew brighter, 
and the heat intenser, for God fails not. The source of that flame was 
the Almighty Spirit of God, and hence it is blazing to-day, and will 
blaze until Jesus Himself will come. 

God be thanked for such a one, whose faith follow. 


Enp oF MEMORIAL ADDRESSES. 


“ REMINISCENCES ” 
OF H. GRATTAN GUINNESS, M.D. 


Sometime in the spring of 1877 I was sitting under a wide spreading 
tree in the garden of Harley House, talking to his mother regarding’ 
the prospects of the newly founded Livingstone Inland Mission to the 
Congo, and on the Council of which Mission I had become a member, 
when the lithe figure of a young man passed in front of us, to take his 
place in a high jumping match with several young students preparing 
for Mission work—this competition we watched until the victor was 
de lared in the person of her son, whose individuality I then learned, 
and whose joyous laugh remains with me to this hour 

On coming out of the City Liberal Club in Walbrook three or 
four days before he was taken ill, I ran up against him returning from a 
preaching tour, and that bright invigorating laugh rang out with all 
the joy of thirty-seven years ago. 

Down those thirty-seven years I have seen him at most of the 
monthly Council Meetings, and for eleven consecutive years we spent 
together the month of August en famille, at Cliff College, in Derby- 
shire—dearly beloved “‘ Cliff ’’—amid an unsurpassable charm of social 
life and glorious scenery. 


115 


Lire oF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


It is impossible, in the brief space at my disposal, to convey a 
fitting impression of that joyous spirit—joyous by the gift of Nature, 
but still more by the fact that his life was hid with Christ in God. 
He must have been one of those happy instances which can never name 
the day of the spiritual birth—and thank God there are many such— 
for I remember one of his early experiences when quite a boy at a 
revival meeting presided over by his distinguished father, he con- 
sidered it his duty to speak to an elderly gentleman, to whom he 
sidled up and shyly asked if he were “saved.” Fortunately the 
gentleman was true to his character and quietly said, “‘ Yes, my boy, 
thank God I am”’; but when relating the incident to us, on one of his 
many visits to my home, he realized that such a declaration of his 
loyalty to Christ needed a distinct guidance and should not be followed 
on every impulse. 

It may be added, however, that there is perhaps too little of this 
impulse nowadays, for it is not the modern fashion to speak of God 
in relation to our daily life and too much shamefacedness in speaking 
frankly of one’s spiritual life. 

His physical walk was the reflection of his spiritual walk, it was a 
long, free, happy swing and everything he did in outdoor life, he did 
well—golf came by instinct, shooting with equal facility, and of indoor 
games he needed no instruction. 

One long winter evening, when a guest with us, I gave him his 
very first lesson in billiards—he beat me the second game and I never 
had a look in afterwards. 

About the year 1885, he was induced to come down to Birkenhead 
to hold a series of evangelical services in connection with a Mission, 
spoken of as Brassey Street Mission, and many times in the year 
following he referred to it as his first of the kind away from the sur- 
roundings of Harley House. I think it lasted for a fortnight during 
which period he was again our guest. The Mission was eminently 
successful and there are men and women to-day who acknowledge 
openly that they were converted then, and whose lives since have been 
consistent, true and fruitful. 

The outstanding event of this character was one not surpassed by 
any, even in the grand days of the Moody and Sankey period. 

Some half a dozen Liverpool laymen (I cannot recall the year, prob- 
ably about 1888) had it pressed upon their hearts that Dr. Guinness, 
then spoken of familiarly as Harry Guinness, should be invited to lead 
it, and he was accordingly invited. He agreed, Hengler’s Circus was 
hired for the first two nights, the half dozen having met in the office of 
one of them once or twice a week for a month before he came, to invoke 
the blessing of God. The first two nights were for men only, and the 


116 


APPENDIX. 


view from the platform was a sight never to be forgotten. The place 
was packed in every corner and there could not have been fewer than 
three thousand to four thousand present, who listened with a silence 
which was almost painful. His peroration in dramatic power reminded 
me of Gough, the American Temperance Lecturer, who stirred Great 
Britain some thirty years earlier. Dr. Guinness had been urging the 
audience to high aims and perfect purity of life, then suddenly stopping 
he pointed upwards and read as if on a scroll, “‘ There shall in no wise 
enter into tt anything that defileth, netther whatsoever worketh abomina- 
tion, or maketh a lie; but they who are written in the Lamb’s book of 
life.’ It was the finest thing I ever heard him do, and I heard 
him scores of times afterwards. The effect on the audience was very 
marked. 

It was not possible to get the Circus after those two evenings, 
and the services were continued nightly for three weeks in the large Hall 
of the Y.M.C.A. Building, which was seated for nine hundred, but 
almost every night it had one thousand or more, men and women, 
young and old; indeed, it was considered that as many as one thousand 
two hundred were probably there on the closing night. 

This last evening had one remarkable effect ; when Dr. Guinness 
asked all those who had received a blessing to stand up—the response 
was the rising practically of the whole audience. “ They that turn 
many to righteousness shall shine as the stars for ever and ever.” 

I may add, with reference to those services, that the names and 
addresses of all who attended were, as far as possible, obtained and 
handed on to the churches in the various districts for future oversight. 

In this brief appreciation of our dear friend, I am making no © 
reference to what, after all, was the great work of his life, the inherited 
control (jointly with his Directors) of the various Missions in so many 
parts of the world, and for which he qualified himself more fully by 
personal visits. To this work he gave ungrudgingly of his best. 

It may perhaps be said that his enthusiasm sometimes misled his 
judgment, but he was ever ready to yield to the advice of others, and 
never at any time in my experience showed pain because his suggestions 
were overruled. 

The mystery of his Home Call is a deep one, for his services seemed 
indispensable—but the Lord has thought otherwise, and it is well. 

Our hearts are very sad, but the Warrior hath gotten him the 
victory, and has unbuckled his armour. 


JAMES IRVINE. 
CLAUGHTON, BIRKENHEAD. 
July, 1915. 
117 


LIFE OF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


_ EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS OF SYMPATHY. 


[It is only possible to make the briefest selection from the hundreds 
of letters of sympathy received from friends, from strangers and from 
officers of Societies or congregations with whom Dr. Guinness had been 
directly or indirectly connected. Those. here quoted have been 
selected for the light they cast upon his character and personality, 
and the value of his achievements. | 


From the Bishop of Chelmsford, 


Dr. WaTTS-DITCHFIELD. 
BISHOPSCOURT, 
CHELMSFORD. 
May, 30. 
My DEAR Mrs. GUINNESS, 

I must write a brief but sincere word of deep sympathy with you 
in your great loss. I always respected your husband as a manly type 
of a Christian gentleman. He was one who recommended the Saviour 
by his life. There was nothing petty or mean about him, and I am 
certain that his life meant much to many souls. But you, nearest and 
dearest to him, must have a blank in your life and this only the Great 
Comforter of Bethany can fill. I do pray that you and your children 
may be filled with His love and His peace. With a very real God bless 
you, 

Ever yours, 
I. E. CHELMSFORD. 


From Lord KINNAIRD. 
1, Patt MALtt East, 


Lonpon, S.W. 
May 27, 1915. 


I cannot tell you how shocked I was to hear this afternoon the 
awfully sad news of the death of your dear husband. I cannot believe 
it istrue. Dr. Guinness was always so full of vitality and energy that 
I looked forward to his enjoying good health and the ability to continue 
all his multitudinous work for many years tocome. I fear, however, 
that possibly he has worn himself out. God has some other work 
for him to do and in His inscrutable wisdom has called him to Himself 
for other purposes. 


118 


APPENDIX. 


We shall miss Dr. Harry, as the Y.M.C.A. called him, tremen- 
dously, humanly speaking. I have heard continually during the 
past winter to how many he was blessed in our huts and tents. Onl 
yesterday I was talking to the Secretary of the hut at the Duke of 
York’s School, Chelsea, and he was telling me how the soldiers enj oyed 
an address he gave a few weeks ago, before a Party were starting for 
the front. : 

Yours very sincerely, 
(signed) KINNAIRD. 


From J. W. ARTHUR, M.D. 


CHURCH OF SCOTLAND MISSION, 
KIKUYU, 
BRITISH EAST AFRICA. 


I owe my early interest, probably at the age of nine, in Missions 
toanaddresshe gave . . . As the result of that address I made 
the great decision of my life to be a Medical Missionary. 

I gladly testify, with so many others, to Dr. Guinness’s influence, 
and thank God for the call He gave to me through him. 


From Sir A. R. SIMPSON. 
52, QUEEN STREET, 
EDINBURGH. 
My DEAR Mrs. GUINNESS, 

I find it hard to realise that the beloved Harry is not to come © 
again some day and bring the sunny radiance into my home that 
brightened it every time he came. How many hearts sorrow with you 
here. How many rejoice with him there. 

I thank God for every remembrance of him. 


From ANDREW GRAY. 
SOUTHEND-ON-SEA. 


: His was a life so linked up round the world with living 
connections, and the thread held by such a strong influence that so 
meny friends will receive a great shock in their loss of so able a Coun- 
sellor and Director, and the natives will mourn a good and great chief. 
His last words and persuasive power will be long remembered by all 
the soldiers where he has recently been ministering to their spiritual 
needs. 


119 


Lire oF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


From Dr. ROBERT MILNE. 


: Over thirty years have passed since I was introduced to 
the dear departed one. These years have only, as they passed, led 
to an ever-increasing admiration of his wonderful gifts, graces and 
powerful use of the same. His manner was always most charming 
and combined with his extensive knowledge and travel, made him an 
ornament of every circle he entered. Above all else, however, we 
admired and loved him for his ever true and faithful devotion to our 
Lord and Saviour. His bright and optimistic spirit was ever like that 
of another very great friend, Dr. Barnardo, leading him on to greater 
and more extensive plans for the good of his fellows in the great battle 
of life; plans oft-times far ahead of what those associated with them 
were able to comprehend. The dreams and hopes of both now lie 
before the world in a realization we can only thank God for, and go 
forward with renewed hope and courage. 


From Mrs. E. C. BARBER. 
THE Leys SCHOOL, 
CAMBRIDGE. 
May 27, 1915. 


“ Asleep in Jesus ” sounds so sweet, so safe, so enviable, in these 
sad and stormy daysthat for your dear husband I can but thank God, 
but for you and the children my heart just aches. I have never 
forgotten a visit to Sheringham which gave us the chance of getting 
to know Dr. Guinness with his family, when I remember my husband 
and I both agreed that the relation was just a perfect one between the 
young father and his girls and boys. It is rarely that one meets a 
man like Dr. Guinness, who united the truest manliness with the faith 
and simplicity of a little child. 


The Rev. E. Isaac, of Melbourne, wrote of him in the Southern 
Cross (July, 1915) : 


“‘ My dear friend, Dr. Guinness, was a man of beautiful crystal- 
line transparency of character. There were no shady places in his life 
that we have hurriedly to skirt by. No grave mistakes demanding 
silence, nor faults needing apology, nor weaknesses to be covered by 
a cloud of words. All was in the open sunlight. 

“* The qualities that make men trusted were Dr. Guinness’s in con- 
spicuous degree: clear intellect, exact knowledge, pure purpose, 
tough will, unstinting toil, whole-souled devotion, strong convictions, 
a passion for men, for their spiritual, mental and physical uplift.”’ 


120 


APPENDIX. 


From JEAN B. TEMPLETON. 


R.B.H.U., GLascow, 
; 175, ST. VINCENT STREET. 

It is not for me to say what his death will mean for the work for 
which he lived and laboured so unreservedly. So far as Scotland is 
concerned, no one could ever fill his place and the loss is irreparable. 
For us, separated as we are from the London Organisation, the R.B.M.U. 
simply meant Dr. Guinness, and to be without him is unthinkable. - 


From W. P. Dopson. 


RIVERSIDE, CALIFORNIA. 

How orderly seemed the Doctor’s resignation and the new arrange- 
ments already under way. But, oh, how he is to be missed! Just 
to look at him seemed a refreshing moment to every one. He seemed 
like a bright beam wherever he passed, and there was no negative 
quality about him. 

R.B.H.U., 
NEw WANDSWORTH, S.W. 

. . . I have tried to imagine what my life would have been 
had I never been brought into contact with Harley and the R.B.M.U. 
I think it impossible as I think of the great blessing in my own life ; 
the encouragement to go on endeavouring for the Lord in the face of 
difficulty, the friends which have become part of my life ; the interest 
aroused in some of the dark spots of the wide world; the feeling of 
unity and nearness which comes from the knowledge that we all meet 
in the name of Jesus at the Throne of Grace to pray for each other 
and the spread of the Gospel ; which I find all belongs to the R.B.M.U. 
I cannot find words to express my feeling of indebtedness to you and. 
your dear husband, our beloved Director. I do sincerely thank God 
for all this has been to me, and is to me, and I am sure the many 
memories of the Friday Prayer Meetings and other times, when one has 
realized that nothing is too great for our God to do through His humble, 
devoted servants, will live and bear fruit in future days. 


From R. Ponsonsy Woop, Esq. 
DvuLwIcH, S.E. 

I cannot tell you how much I feel at the departure of your dear 
husband. I did love and admire him so much, and look back with 
such pleasure to my link with him in the R.B.H.U., Dublin, and also in 
Cork. 

My sons also feel keenly the loss of such a dear friend and brother 
in the Lord. The last time I saw him and shook hands with him was 
the evening at the Queen’s Hall, when he played for Mrs. Drummond 
at my son’s Young Life Campaign. 


121 


Lire OF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


From personal friends. 


I can’t realise it a bit. He always looked so strong and well! and 
handsome, and his winning, charming personality and strong faith 
were such a tremendous help and stimulus to all who had had the 
privilege of meeting him, that he will be missed unspeakably. I have 
been thinking so much yesterday and to-day of the wonderful and 
abundant entrance he must have had . . . How TI wish I could 
have seen him once more. I would have travelled fast and far to do 
it had it been possible. 


For thirty-seven years I have known him. He has always been 
my ideal of what a man should be. How many will rise up and call 
him blessed when our Lord comes for His own people. How gifted 
he was—andinsomany ways. Hischarm, his smile and most winning 
manner, then his beautiful voice, both in singing and speaking, his 
great love for souls and intense longing to help them. Dear Harry, 
I shall never forget him. I am glad that your youngest child is old 
enough to have a keen remembrance of his wonderful father. 


We all loved Harry so much. No one was so welcome in our 
house as he. What a universal favourite and yet how ready he 
always was to do the humblest thing. 

_ My father always wrote down on a piece of paper things he wished 
to pray for. Not long before his death your husband called at my 
father’ s house and my father added to his list the word ‘‘ Guinness- 
ness,” and explained to me it meant to remind him to pray to become 
more bright and sunny, just as Harry always was. 

We all loved him. God bless you. 


I still feel quite stunned and unable to believe it. Harry’s place 
here empty—Harry’s! That radiant personality no longer here to 
make the earth glad ; and the humdrum folk left. And his home and 
his work, the light gone from the former, and the heart and soul out 
of the latter. . . . One can only stand helplessly by and pray 
that God Himself may comfort your inmost heart. He made Harry. 
He invented him, so to speak. He must have resources wherewith 
to meet the terrible blank left by that beautiful invention of His— 
it requires much faith to believe it, however. 

I think it is the last time I saw him at Harley House that he said 
to me in his winning, warmhearted way, “‘ Old friends are the best.” 
And then he added, “ But my best friend throughout the years, my 
best helper and my greatest stay has been Annie.” 


122 


APPENDIX. 


BRIGHTON. 


I thank God for every remembrance of him, and especially for 
those days here in January. He seemed then so to live in God’s 
Presence, and his visit to us was truly a benediction. 


READING. 


So bright and buoyant was he ever that when he entered one’s 
home, one felt as if fresh breezes blew, and we were so helped by his 
loving-hearted sympathy. 


I cannot imagine the world without that beautiful personality, 
for it was a source of hope and optimism to come in contact with 
him, and one’s life could not fail to be enriched. 

On behalf of the humble folk at this little Mission, let me assure 
you of their true sorrow, for they loved your dear one! His visits 
here are ever fresh in their memories. 


GRAVESEND. 


I owe to Dr. Guinness morethanI can possiblysay. Ihave only 
heard him speak once or twice, but have never forgotten his wonderful 
ee spirituality which seemed to come right from the Presence of 

od. = 

It must comfort you greatly to feel that with many hundreds 
who are called to troubled lives, his words will ever echo with cheer and 
help, and to those of us whose lives are brighter, his will always be a 
reminder of things eternal. 

In the midst of your deep sorrow, I pray that the blessed fact may 
ever be your solace—the fact that to many hundreds Dr. Guinness 
has lit up the Way of Life with a light that cannot fade. 

Forgive this letter—from one who must be a stranger to you. 


From Louisa S——. 


DEAR Mrs. GUINNESS, 


In much Christian love and sympathy I am sending this note to 
you, under the present circumstances with our Heavenly Father’s 
help. I can hardly explain myself what I have felt since last Friday. 
I have not realized it yet, though we must say the Lord has taken 
home one of the best flowers that ever was in His garden. We have 


123 


LiFE OF Dr. HARRY GUINNESS. 


lost a good man ; it was very beautiful on Saturday night to hear one 
after another get up at the Prayer Meeting at the Edinburgh Castle, to 
speak and pray of dear Dr. Guinness and the work, that it might be 
sustained. On Sunday night Mr. Notman gave it out about the dear 
Doctor and we all sang Dr. Guinness’s hymn that he composed himself. 
The chorus is, “‘ I will trust and not be afraid.” 


DEAR Mrs. GUINNESS, 


It is with much sorrow that I venture to write these few words to 
tell you how much I feel for you in this your deep trouble and great 
loss. Dear Dr. Guinness, how kind he usedtospeaktome. I thought 
so much of him. I have his photo that he gave me. I prize it so 
much ; he was so good, so kind, so clever and yet so humble. He 
is with his Lord, which is far better. May God Himself blessand com- 
fort you and your dear family is the prayer of yours very sorrowfully 
and respectfully, A.R. 


SALVATION ARMY HEADQUARTERS. 
He had the sunniest face I ever saw and the warmest heart. 


SOME SPECIAL MESSAGES RECEIVED FROM VICE-PRESIDENTS OF 
THE ALLIANCE OF HONOUR, 


From THE BisHoP oF LONDON. 


The Bishop of London has heard with very real regret of the death 
of Dr. Grattan Guinness. He would desire to express his deep 
sympathy with the Alliance of Honour at the loss of its President. 


From Tue BisHop oF DURHAM. 


I hear with sad surprise, I had almost said with dismay, of the 
death of our beloved and honoured Dr. Harry Guinness. 

Our Lord doeth all things well. ‘‘ He buries His workmen and 
carries on His work.” 

But He knows how witery the mystery is to our mortal sight. 

God Himself console the chief mourner and raise up for you 
unlooked-for help. 


124 


APPENDIX. 


From THE BisHop OF BIRMINGHAM. 


I hope with all my heart that those connected with it (the Alliance) 
will work all the harder now that they are deprived of the inspiration 
of Dr. Guinness. The best way in which we can commemorate him 
will be by doing more than ever for the cause. 


From THE BISHOP OF SHEFFIELD. 


I am indeed grieved to hear of the death of our President, Dr. 
Guinness. I only had the privilege of meeting him twice, but he was a 
man who, as one could see at a glance, had his whole soul in his Master’s 
service. 


From BisHop WELLDON. 


I deeply regret the sad news of Dr. Guinness’s death. His has 
been a noble Christian life. 


From CANON Hay AITKEN, M.A. 


He will certainly be greatly missed. I hada very high esteem for 
him and greatly appreciated his work. Our one comfort in all such 
losses is that the Lord knows where to look for successors, and in His 
own good time and way presents them to the work. 


From VEN. ARCHDEACON MADDEN [The late]. 


I have learned with very deep regret of the death of Dr. Grattan 
Guinness. His death is a great loss, not only to the Alliance, but also 
to the forces that make for righteousness in the Empire. 


From THE REv. PREBENDARY WEBB-PEPLOE, M.A. 


I am indeed deeply moved with sorrow and regret to learn that 
Dr. H. Guinness has been taken from us, and from all the good work 
which the Lord had given him! It is truly his gain, but a heavy loss 
tothe Church onearth. Gop’s will be done. 


THE REGIONS BEYOND MISSIONARY UNION. 


Its HIsTORY AND ITS WORK. 


It may be of interest to trace, in the briefest outline, what the 
Regions Beyond Missionary Union stands for. It is an organization 
whose objects are : 


125 


LIFE OF Dr. Harry GUINNESS. 


(1) The conduct and support of evangelical training institutions 
in which suitable men and women from any nation or 
denomination are prepared for foreign missionary service. 

(2) Practical Missionary effort, as God may open the way, with 
special reference to the regions beyond those already 
evangelized. 

(3) The maintenance of the various operations by the free-will 
offerings of men and women on whose hearts has been laid 
the condition of the heathen world, and who recognize 
the obligation in the great commission of their ascended 
Lord to carry His Gospel to every creature. 

The story of the origin and growth of the Union is given in these 
pages. Begun in 1873, and founded in faith, the work has prospered 
greatly. Known in the early days as ‘‘ The East London Training 
Institute,” its operations outgrew the name, and in 1899 the movement 
became known as 


THE REGIONS BEYOND MISSIONARY UNION, 


under which designation are still included : 


1. TRAINING INSTITUTIONS, in whch over one thousand three 
hundred men and women have been trained to serve in con- 
nection with no fewer than forty-four Missionary Societies. 
Owing to financial straits, Harley College, in which all the 
work has been recently consolidated, is now closed; it is 
hoped only for a brief space, when happier days shall follow 
this terrible war. 

2. EVANGELISTIC AND PHILANTHROPIC enterprise in the neediest 
part of the East End of London, having its home and centre 
at Berger Hall since 1884, and carried on with wonderful 
results. 

3. FOREIGN Missions begun between 1889 and 1901 in Central 
Africa, South America and India. 

(1) The work in Argentina and Peru was transferred in 1911 
to theEvangelical Union of South America, the R.B.M.U. 
finding it impossible adequately to sustain four growing 
Missions on £25,000 a year. 

(2) The Congo Balolo Mission was founded in 1889. Ina 
country as large as Germany, in the river’s horseshoe 
bend, we find this Mission’s sphere. Amidst its savage, 
superstitious and cannibal people, nine stations have 
been established, the furthest 1,250 miles inland. 


126 


APPENDIX. 


Evidence of the Presence and Power of God may be 
found in the following results: Two languages reduced 
to writing ; the New Testament translated ; printed by 
natives, purchased and widely read ; growing churches ; 
an increasing number of Native Evangelists; day schools 
now reaching thousands of scholars; a changing woman- 
hood ; a new type of manhood. But the field is wide, 
the workers few. During the past twenty-six years, - 
forty-one missionaries have laid down their lives. 
Others have failed in health or retired. The present 
staff only numbers forty-one. To them comes a con- 
stant cry, “Send us teachers. Why must we wait ? 
Why ?” 

(3) The Behar Mission, founded in 1901, has widened the 
interest of our supporters. This is as it should be; 
a as a nation, we have special responsibilities towards 

ndia. 

Behar, with more than twenty-one million in- 
habitants forms, with Chota, Nagpur and Orissa, the 
new Province recently created to the West of Bengal. 
Many of its sub-divisions are totally unreached by 
Missionary effort. Its north-west corner contains four 
millions of people living in five towns and eight thousand 
five hundred villages, yet it had only one Protestant 
mission station when entered by the R.B.M.U. The 
Union has now sixteen missionaries and twenty-seven 
native workers occupying four centres, where a vigorous 
evangelistic, medical and educational campaign is in 
progress. The field shows rich promise, and the call 
for more workers is insistent and clear, but these cannot 
be sent until funds permit. 


4. INGATHERING OF Funps is provided to a considerable extent 
by the Regions Beyond Helpers’ Union—an organization of 
devoted friends all over the land, numbering now about 
seven thousand five hundred, who undertake to subscribe 
at least one penny a week to the Mission. Most of the 
members have collecting boxes, the contents of which are 
sent in twice a year. Valuable though this agency is in 
regard to the financial support of the Mission—(it raised last 
year the sum of £3,241 9s. 8d.)—it makes even a greater 
contribution to the success of the Mission in the enlarging of 
sympathetic interest and in the upholding of the work by 
earnest prayer. 


P. B. Beppow, ‘“‘ Press’’ Printing Works, Anerley, S.E. 


> 
‘ 
v - r i 
: 7 j ; 
—- ' 
. 
5 
, 


ie, 
Ge 


y 
~~ RNs 


: Mi 
) ft, 
ei a 


ae 


Tes 
ina \ 


ree 
R: Me (CS sd 
q ' i» 


Lo } 
¢ UH ae 


a Nh hh ay 


SA 2 
ra Cie US tae 
val ih ea 
WN re 
er aN 
: 35) 


am 


ih 
i 


oe 


ME dnb 


es zg 


Aas 
aie 


Mackintosh 
Dr. Harry Guiness 


‘Sg 


el i 


FEN “Sena ) ne Sh 
Nate ni Ut si 
YOR 
f Wr 


ca 
000 
040107 


WT 


| 


: ] life 


DEMcO = — 
Se 
x= 
._— 
O£ 
Weer 3 : g6 
Coe may TRUER AAS bet FR yl t B 
Veae kere Ti Puy eta x) a —— 
Mati Ny ais A Ih: ae: “1; ; 4 iy = = 
" ie AE fa 1 | * rN ed ST UNA i if 4 ) ONE we TORS ess 


Ty? Md ai) 


: 


egress 


s Sores 


