DOCUMENT_ID: firstten1834
TITLE (as printed): First Ten Annual Reports of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, with Other Documents of the Board
AUTHOR: American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions
DATE: 1834 (reprint volume of reports and documents originally issued 1810-1820)
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL: https://archive.org/details/firsttenannualre00amerrich
EDITION: Boston: Crocker and Brewster, 1834. Digitized by Internet Archive.
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: Internet Archive OCR (djvu), fetched verbatim via curl, uncorrected
WORD COUNT (approx): 200000
NOTE: PRIMARY. This volume reprints, among "other documents of the Board," the full text
of the "Instructions given by the Prudential Committee of the American Board of
Commissioners for Foreign Missions, to the Missionaries to the East" (Salem, 7 February
1812) addressed to Judson, Nott, Newell, Hall, and Rice -- the sending instructions named
in the roster and task tickets as the ABCFM's charter document for this chapter. It also
reprints the first ten Annual Reports themselves. Page numbers below are the printed page
numbers visible in the OCR (running heads), not inserted markers.
OCR QUALITY: Good; spot-checked, low error rate.
=====BEGIN TRANSCRIPTION=====
Y 


f  ft 


FIRST   TEW 


ANNUAL   REPORTS 


OF  THE 


AMERICAN  BOARD  OF  COMMISSIONERS 


FOREIGN  MISSIONS, 


WITH 


OTHER    DOCUMENTS   OF    TH 


BOSTON : 

PRINTED  BY  CROCKER  AND  BREWSTER, 

1834. 


Bancroft  Ubnqr 


CONTENTS 


Page- 
Minutes  of  the  first  Annual  Meeting,  1810  9 

Address  to  the  Christian  Public,  1810 13 

Minutes  of  the  Second  Annual  Meeting,  1811         ....  15 

Report,  1811  15 

Address  to  the  Christian  Public,  1811  25 

Minutes  of  the  Third  Annual  Meeting,  1812 31 

Report,  1812 

Instructions  to  Messrs.  Judson,  Nott,  Newell,  Hall,  and  Rice,  1812    -    38 

Act  of  Incorporation  of  the  Board          - 43 

Bye-Laws  of  the  Board 45 

Address  to  the  Christian  Public,  1812 47 

Minutes  of  the  Fourth  Annual  Meeting,  1813        ....        54 

Report,  1813 57 

Address  to  the  Christian  Public,  1813  67 

Minutes  of  the  Fifth  Annual  Meeting,  1814 79 

Report,  1814  81 

Appendix  to  the  Report  of  1814  . 92 

Minutes  of  the  Sixth  Annual  meeting,  1815 115 

Report,  1815        - 118 

Minutes  of  the  Seventh  Annual  Meeting,  1816        -        -        -        -      127 

Report,  1816 129 

Minutes  of  the  Eight  Annual  Meeting,  1817  ....      139 

Report,  1817       -  141 

Minutes  of  the  Ninth  Annual  Meeting,  1818  -        -        -        -     171 

Report,  1818 173 

Minutes  of  the  Tenth  Annual  Meeting,  1819          -        -        -        -     207 

Report,  1819 210 

Minutes  of  the  Eleventh  Annual  Meeting,  1820  -    253 

Report,  1820 254 


/    r"  -    .    - 

• 


MINUTES 


OF   THE 


FIRST    ANNUAL    MEETING 


AT  ^a  meeting,  in  Farmington,  (Ct.)  September  5th,  1810,  of  the 
Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  appointed  by  the  General  Associa 
tion  of  Massachusetts  Proper,  at  their  sessions  in  Bradford,  June  27th, 
1810;  present — 

His  Excellency  JOHN  TREADWELL,  Esq 
Rev.  Dr.  JOSEPH  LYMAN, 
Rev.  Dr.  SAMUEL  SPRING, 
Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER, 
Rev.  CALVIN  CIIAPIN. 

The  meeting  was  opened  with  prayer,  by  Dr.  Lymau. 

Voted,  That  the  doings  of  the  General  Association  of  Massachusetts 
Proper,  relative  to  the  appointment  and  duties  of  this  Board,  shall  be 
entered  on  the  minutes  of  the  present  sessions.  Those  doings  are 
expressed  in  the  following  words,  viz. 

"Four  young  gentlemen,  members  of  the  Divinity  College,  were  in 
troduced,  and  presented  the  following  paper. 

;The  undersigned,  members  of  the  Divinity  College,  respectfully 
request  the  attention  of  their  Rev.  Fathers,  convened  in  the  General 
Association  at  Bradford,  to  the  following  statement  and  inquiries. 

'They  beg  leave  to  state,  that  their  minds  have  been  long  impressed 
with  the  duty  and  importance  of  personally  attempting  a  mission  to  the 
heathen;  that  the  impressions  on  their  minds  have  induced  a  serious, 
and  they  trust,  a  prayerful  consideration  of  the  subject  in  its  various 
attitudes,  particularly  in  relation  to  the  probable  success,  and  the  diffi 
culties  attending  such  an  attempt:  and  that,  after  examining  all  the 
information  which  they  can  obtain,  they  consider  themselves  as  devoted 
to  this  work  for  life,  whenever  God,  in  his  providence,  shall  open  the 
way. 

2 


10  ORGANIZATION  OF  THE  BOARD.  1810- 

'They  now  offer  the  following  inquiries,  on  which  they  solicit  the 
opinion  and  advice  of  this  Association.  Whether,  with  their  present 
views  and  feelings,  they  ought  to  renounce  the  object  of  missions,  as 
either  visionary  or  impracticable;  if  not,  whether  they  ought  to  direct 
their  attention  to  the  eastern  or  western  world;  whether  they  may  ex 
pect  patronage  and  support  from  a  Missionary  Society  in  this  country, 
or  must  commit  themselves  to  the  direction  of  a  European  society;  and 
what  preparatory  measures  they  ought  to  take,  previous  to  actual  en 
gagement. 

'The  undersigned,  feeling  their  youth  and  inexperience,  look  up  to 
their  fathers  in  the  church,  and  respectfully  solicit  their  advice,  direc 
tion  and  prayers.'  ADONIRAM  JUDSON,  Jun. 

SAMUEL  NOTT,  Jun. 
SAMUEL  J.  MILLS. 
SAMUEL  NEWELL.* 

"After  hearing  from  the  young  gentlemen  some  more  particular  ac 
count  of  the  state  of  their  minds,  and  their  views,  relative  to  the  subject 
offered  to  consideration,  the  business  was  committed  to  the  Rev.  Messrs. 
Spring,  Worcester  and  Hale. 

"The  committee  on  the  subject  of  Foreign  Missions,  made  the  follow 
ing  report,  which  was  unanimously  accepted. 

"The  committee  to  whom  was  referred  the  request  of  the  young  gen 
tlemen,  members  of  the  Divinity  College,  for  advice  relative  to  missions 
to  the  heathen,  beg  leave  to  submit  the  following  report. 

"The  object  of  missions  to  the  heathen  cannot  but  be  regarded,  by 
the  friends  of  the  Redeemer,  as  vastly  interesting  and  important.  It 
deserves  the  most  serious  attention  of  all  who  wish  well  to  the  best  in 
terests  of  mankind,  and  especially  of  those  who  devote  themselves  to  the 
service  of  God  in  the  kingdom  of  his  Son,  under  the  impression  of  the 
special  direction,  'Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every 
creature.'  The  state  of  their  minds,  modestly  expressed  by  the  theolog 
ical  students,  who  have  presented  themselves  before  this  body,  and  the 
testimonies  received  respecting  them,  are  such  as  deeply  to  impress  the 
conviction,  that  they  ought  not  to  renounce  the  object  of  missions,  but 
sacredly  to  cherish  their  present  views,  in  relation  to  that  object:  and  it 
is  submitted  whether  the  peculiar  and  abiding  impressions  by  which  they 
are  influenced,  ought  not  to  be  gratefully  recognized,  as  a  divine  intima 
tion  of  something  good  and  great  in  relation  to  the  propagation  of  the 
gospel,  and  calling  for  correspondent  attention  and  exertions. 

"Therefore,  Voted,  That  there  be  instituted  by  this  General  Associa 
tion,  a  Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  for  the  purpose  of 
devising  ways  and  means,  and  adopting  and  prosecuting  measures,  for 
promoting  the  spread  of  the  gospel  in  heathen  lands. 

"Voted,  That  the  said  Board  of  Commissioners  consist  of  nine  mem 
bers,  all  of  them,  in  the  first  instance,  chosen  by  this  Association;  and 
afterwards  annually,  five  of  them  by  this  body,  and  four  of  them  by  the 
General  Association  of  Connecticut. — Provided,  however,  that,  if  the 
General  Association  of  Connecticut  do  not  choose  to  unite  in  this  object, 

*  The  history  of  the  rise  and  progress  of  the  missionary  spirit  of  which  tliis  communication 
was  a  result,  may  be  seen  in  the  Life  of  Samuel  J.  Mills.  Editor  1334. 


1810.  ORGANIZATION  OP  THE  BOARD.  11 

the   annual  election  of  all   the  Commissioners  shall   be  by  this  General 
Association. 

"It  is  understood,  that  the  Board  of  Commissioners,  here  contem 
plated,  will  adopt  their  own  form  of  organization,  and  their  own  rules 
and  regulations. 

"Voted,  That  fervently  commending  them  to  the  grace  of  God,  we 
advise  the  young  gentlemen,  whose  request  is  before  us,  in  the  way  of 
earnest  prayer  and  diligent  attention  to  suitable  studies  and  means  of 
information,  and  putting  themselves  under  the  patronage  and  direction 
of  the  Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  humbly  to  wait 
the  openings  and  guidance  of  providence  in  respect  to  their  great  and 
excellent  design." 

"Pursuant  to  the  report  of  the  Committee,  the  Association  oroceeded 
to  institute  a  Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  and  the  fol 
lowing  gentlemen  were  chosen  : — His  Excellency  John  Tread  well,  Esq., 
Rev.  Dr.  Timothy  Dwight,  Gen.  Jedidiah  Huntington,  and  Rev.  Calvin 
Chapin,  of  Connecticut;  Rev.  Dr.  Joseph  Lyman,  Rev.  Dr.  Samuel 
Spring,  William  Bartlet,  Esq.,  Rev.  Samuel  Worcester,  and  Deacon 
Samuel  H.  Walley,  of  Massachusetts. 

"  Voted,  That  the  gentlemen  of  the  commission,  belonging  to  Newbu- 
ryport,  Salem  and  Boston,  consult  with  the  other  members,  for  the  pur 
pose  of  appointing  a  time  and  place  for  the  first  meeting  of  the  Board." 

The  Board  then  formed  and  adopted  the  following  Constitution: 

1.  The  Board  shall  be  known  by  the  name  and  style  of  the  American 
Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions. 

2.  The  object  of  this  Board  is  to  devise,  adopt,  and  prosecute,  ways 
and  means  for  propagating  the  gospel  among  those  who  are  destitute  of 
the  knowledge  of  Christianity. 

3.  This  Board  shall,   at  every  annual  meeting,   elect,   by  ballot,   a 
President,   Vice- President,    and  a  Prudential  Committee  of   their   own 
number;  also  a  Recording  Secretary,   and   a  Corresponding  Secretary, 
a  Treasurer,  and  an  Auditor  of  the  Treasury,  either  of  their  own  num 
ber,  or  of  other  persons,  at  their  discretion. 

4.  The   annual  meetings  of  this  Board   shall  be  held  alternately  in 
Massachusetts  and  Connecticut,  on  the  third  Wednesday  of  every  Sep 
tember,   at  ten   o'clock,  A.  M.     The  place  of  every  such  meeting  is  to 
be  fixed  at  the  annual  meeting  next  preceding.    The  President  shall  call 
a  special  meeting  at  the  request  of  a  majority  of  the  Prudential  Commit 
tee,  or  of  any  other  three  members  of  the  Board.     Five  members  of  the 
Board  shall  constitute  a  quorum,  a  majority  of  whom  shall  be  competent 
to  the  transaction  of  ordinary  business. 

5.  The  Prudential  Committee,  under  the  direction  of  the  Board,  shall 
have  power  to  transact  any  business  necessary  to  promote  the  object  of 
the  institution;   and  shall,  in  writing,  report  their  doings  to  each  annual 
meeting. 

6.  The  Auditor,  by  himself,  or  with   such  others  as  may  be  joined 
with  him,  shall  annually  audit  the  Treasurer's  accounts,  and  make  report 
to  the  annual  meeting  of  the  Board. 

7.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Commissioners  to  receive  all  donations 
of  money,  other  property  and  evidences  of  property,  and  the  same  deliver 


12  ORGANIZATION  OF  THE  BOARD.  1810. 

to  the  Prudential  Committee;  and  the  Committee  shall  deliver  the  same 
to  the  Treasurer,  to  be  managed  by  him  for  the  interest  of  the  funds. 

8.  The  Treasurer,   in  keeping  his  accounts,  shall  distinguish  such 
monies  as  may  be  appropriated,  by  the  donors,  for  immediate  use,  from 
such,  the  interest  of  which  is  alone  applicable  to  use,  and  the  principal 
is  designed  to  form  a  permanent  fund;    the  surplus  of  the  former,  which 
may,   at  any  time,  be   in  his  hands,  he  shall  place  at  interest,  on   good 
security,  for  such  limited  period  as  the  Prudential  Committee  shall  direct; 
and  the  principal  of  the  latter  he  shall  place  and  keep  at  interest,  or  vest 
in  stock,  as  he  shall  be  ordered  by  the  Board,  or  by  the  said  Committee. 

9.  The  Prudential  Committee  shall  keep  an  account  of  all  monies 
and  other  property,  or   evidences  of  property,  by  them  received,  and  of 
all  payments  by  them  made  either  to  the  Treasurer,  or  for  other  purposes; 
and  of  all  orders  by  them  drawn  on  the  Treasurer:  and  their  accounts 
shall  be  annually  audited  and  reported  to  the  Board. 

10.  The  Commissioners  shall  be  entitled  to  be  paid  their  necessary 
expenses  incurred  in  going  to,  attending  upon,  and  returning  from,  meet 
ings  of  the  Board;  and  all  officers  of  the  Board  shall  be,  in  like  manner, 
entitled  to  be  paid  their  necessary  expenses,  as  they  shall,  in  each  case,  be 
liquidated  and  allowed  by  the  Board;  but  no  commissioner  or  officer  shall 
be  entitled  to  receive  any  compensation  for  his  personal  services. 

11.  The  appointment  of  missionaries,  their  destination,   appropria 
tions  for  their  support,   and  their  recal   from  service,  when  necessary, 
shall  be  under  the  exclusive  direction  of  the  Board. 

12.  A  report   of  the  transactions  of   this  Board  shall   annually   be 
made,  in  writing,  to  the  respective  bodies,  by  which  the  commissioners 
are  appointed. 

13.  This  Board  will  hold  correspondence  with  Missionary  and  other 
Societies  for  the  furtherance  of  the  common  object. 

14.  This   constitution  shall    be  subject  to  any  additions  or  amend 
ments,  which  experience  may  prove  necessary,  by  the  Board  at  an  annual 
meeting;  provided  the  additions  or  amendments  be  proposed,  in  writing, 
to  the  Board  at  the  preceding  meeting. 

JOHN  TREADWELL, 
JOSEPH  LYMAN, 
SAMUEL  SPRING, 
CALVIN  CHAPIN, 
SAMUEL  WORCESTER. 

The  Board  then  proceeded  to  the  choice  of  officers  for  the  year  ensu 
ing,  and  the  following  were  elected: 

His  Excellency  JOHN  TREADWELL,  Esq.  President. 

Rev.  Dr.  SPRING,   Vice  President. 

WILLIAM  BARTLET,  Esq.       \ 

Rev.  Dr.  SPRING,  >  Prudential  Committee. 

Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  j 

Rev.  CALVIN  CHAPIN,  Recording  Secretary. 

Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Deacon  SAMUEL  H.  WALLEY,   Treasurer. 

Mr.  JOSHUA  GOOD  ALE,  Auditor. 


1810.  ADDRESS    TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  13 

Voted,  That  the  Prudential  Committee  prepare  a  Report,  and  submit 
the  same  to  the  Board;  and  that  the  Board  submit  it  to  the  General  As 
sociation  of  Massachusetts  Proper,  and  to  the  General  Association  of 
Connecticut. 

Voted,  That  the  Prudential  Committee  and  Corresponding  Secretary 
be  requested  to  obtain  the  best  information,  in  their  power,  respecting 
the  state  of  unevangelized  nations  on  the  western  and  eastern  conti 
nents,  and  report  at  the  next  meeting  of  the  Board.  ufa 

Voted,  That  the  Board  highly  approve  the  readiness  of  the  young 
gentlemen  at  Andover,  to  enter  upon  a  foreign  mission;  and  that  it  is 
advisable  for  them  to  pursue  their  studies,  till  further  information  rela 
tive  to  the  missionary  field  be  obtained,  and  the  finances  of  the  institu 
tion  will  justify  the  appointment. 

Voted,  That  the  next  annual  meeting  of  this  Board  be  in  Worcester, 
(Mass.)  at  such  place  as  the  Prudential  Committee  shall  provide. 

Voted,  That  five  hundred  copies  of  the  doings  of  the  present  meeting 
be  printed;  that  thirty  copies  be  transmitted  to  each  of  the  commission 
ers;  and  that  the  remaining  copies  be  put  into  the  hands  of  the  Pruden 
tial  Committee  for  circulation;  and  the  Prudential  Committee  will  draw 
upon  the  Treasurer  for  reimbursement  of  the  expense. 

Voted,  That  the  Recording  Secretary   be  requested  to  procure  the 
printing  and  distribution  of  the  doings  of  this  meeting,  as  stated  in  the 
preceding  vote.     The  meeting  was  concluded  with  prayer  by  Dr.  Spring, 
By  order  of  the  Board. 

JOHN  TREADWELL,  President. 
Attest.     CALVIN  CHAPIN,  Recording  Secretary. 

The  following  Address  and  form  of  subscription  were  then  prepared, 
read,  and  adopted,  viz. 

The  American  Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  solicit 
the  serious  and  liberal  attention  of  the  Christian  public. 

The  Redeemer  of  men,  who,  although  "he  was  rich,  for  our  sakes 
became  poor,"  just  before  he  ascended  up  on  high  to  give  gifts  unto 
men,  gave  it  in  special  charge  to  his  disciples  to  "go  into  all  the 
world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature."  Almost  eighteen  cen-< 
turies  have  passed  away  since  this  charge  was  delivered,  and  yet  a  great 
proportion  of  our  fellow  men,  ignorant  of  the  gospel,  are  "sitting  in  the 
region  and  shadow  of  death."  The  promise,  however,  is  sure,  that  the 
Son  "shall  have  the  heathen  for  his  inheritance,  and  the  uttermost  parts 
of  the  earth  for  his  possession,"  and  that  the  world  "shall  be  filled  with 
the  knowledge  of  the  glory  of  the  Lord."  The  long  expected  day  is 
approaching.  The  Lord  is  shaking  the  nations;  his  friends  in  different 
parts  of  Christendom  are  roused  from  their  slumbers;  and  unprecedented 
exertions  are  making  for  the  spread  of  divine  knowledge,  and  the  con 
version  of  the  nations.  In  our  own  country,  the  missionary  spirit  is  ex 
cited,  and  much  has  already  been  done  for  imparting  the  gospel  to  the 
destitute  in  our  new  and  frontier  settlements.  But  for  the  millions  on 
our  own  continent  and  in  other  parts  of  the  world,  to  whom  the  gospel 
has  never  been  preached,  we  have  yet  those  exertions  to  make,  which 
comport  with  the  Savior's  emphatical  directions,  and  our  distinguished 


14  ADDRESS    TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  1810. 

advantages  for  promoting  the  great  object,  for  which  he  came  down  from 
heaven  and  labored  and  suffered.  A  new  scene,  with  us,  is  now  open 
ing.  It  is  ascertained  that  several  young  men,  of  good  reputation  for 
piety  and  talents,  under  sacred  and  deep  impressions,  hold  themselves 
devoted  for  life  to  the  service  of  God,  in  the  gospel  of  his  Son,  among 
the  destitute,  and  are  ready  to  go  into  any  part  of  the  unevangelized 
world,  where  providence  shall  open  the  door  for  their  missionary  labors. 
Is  not  this  a  divine  intimation  of  something  great  and  good?  And  does 
it  not  call,  with  impressive  emphasis,  for  general  attention  and  exertion? 
In  the  present  state  of  the  world,  Christian  missions  cannot  be  executed 
without  pecuniary  support.  Shall  this  support  be  wanting?  When 
millions  are  perishing  for  lack  of  knowledge,  and  young  disciples  of  the 
Lord  are  waiting,  with  ardent  desire,  to  carry  the  gospel  of  salvation  to 
them;  shall  those  millions  be  left  to  perish,  and  that  ardent  desire  be  dis 
appointed?  Is  there,  then,  in  those  who  are  favored  with  the  gospel,  the 
same  mind  that  was  in  Christ,  when  he  freely  gave  his  own  blood  for 
the  redemption  of  men?  Should  not  this  reflection  come  home  to  the 
hearts  of  the  rich,  and  of  all  who,  by  the  bounty  of  the  Savior,  have  it 
in  their  power  to  contribute  even  their  mites,  for  the  salvation  of  those 
for  whom  he  died? 

The  commissioners  hold  themselves  sacredly  bound  to  use  their  best 
endeavors  for  promoting  the  great  design  for  which  they  have  been  ap 
pointed;  and  solemnly  pledge  themselves  to  the  Christian  public  faith 
fully  to  appropriate,  according  to  their  best  discretion,  all  monies  which 
shall  be  contributed  and  committed  to  their  disposal,  for  aiding  the 
propagation  of  the  gospel  in  unevangelized  lands. 

For  promoting  the  object  of  their  institution,  we  the  subscribers, 
engage  to  pay  to  the  American  Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign 
Missions,  the  sums  annexed  to  our  respective  names. 


MIJVUTES 


OF   THE 


SECOND    ANNUAL    MEETING. 


PURSUANT  to  the  constitution  of  the  American  Board  of  Commission 
ers  for  Foreign  Missions,  the  following  members  of  that  Board  convened 
in  Worcester,  (Mass.)  September  18,  1811,  viz. 

The  Hon.  JOHN  TREADWELL,  Esq. 
Rev.  SAMUEL  SPRING,  D.  D. 
Gen.  JEDIDIAH  HUNTINGTON, 
Rev.  JOSEPH  LYMAN,  D.  D. 
Rev.  JEDIDIAH  MORSE,  D.  D. 
Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER, 
Rev.  CALVIN  CHAPIN. 

The  meeting  was  opened  with  prayer  by  the  Vice  President. 
Certificates  of  appointment  for  the  ensuing  year  were  exhibited. 
Minutes  of  the  last  session  were  read. 

The   Hon.    JOHN  TREADWELL,  was  elected   President  of  the  Board; 
The  Rev.  Dr.  SPRING,   Vice  President; 
WILLIAM  BARTLET,  Esq.      \ 

Rev.  Dr.  SPRING,  >  Prudential    Committee. 

Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  j 
Rev.  CALVIN  CHAPIN,  Recording  Secretary; 
Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  Corresponding  Secretary. 
JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq.,  Treasurer, 
Mr.  JOSHUA  GOODALE,  Auditor. 

The  Rev.  Dr.  Morse,  the  Rev.  Dr.  Lyman,  and  Gen.  Huntington, 
were  appointed  a  committee  to  consider  whether  any,  and  if  any,  what, 
alterations  of  the  Constitution  may  be  expedient. 

The  Prudential  Committee  presented  their  report,  which  is  as  follows: 

REPORT. 

Agreeably  to  the  direction  of  the  Board,  the  doings  of  their  meeting 
at  Farmington,  together  with  their  address  to  the  public  and  the  form  of 


16  REPORT.  1811. 

subscription  for  promoting  the  object  of  their  institution,  were  printed 
without  delay,  and  extensively  circulated.  Though  a  disposition  favor 
able  to  the  great  object  was  very  soon  discovered  on  the  part  of  charita 
ble  individuals,  yet  the  Committee  perceived,  that  considerable  time 
must  elapse,  before  they  could  be  in  possession  of  funds  adequate  to  the 
support  of  a  mission  upon  a  promising  scale,  in  any  part  of  the  heathen 
world.  Four  young  brethren,  however,  viz.  Messrs.  Adoniram  Judson, 
jun.,  Samuel  Nott,  jun.,  Samuel  Newell,  and  Gordon  Hall,  held  them 
selves  in  readiness  for  the  service,  and  only  waited  to  be  sent  where 
Providence  should  direct.  Under  these  circumstances,  that  as  little  time 
as  possible  might  be  lost,  and  with  a  view  to  the  missionary  interest  at 
large,  the  Committee,  after  consultation  on  the  subject,  judged  it  advisa 
ble  to  send  one  of  the  four  brethren  to  England,  to  confer  with  the  Di 
rectors  of  the  London  Missionary  Society.  Mr.  Judson  was  designated 
for  this  purpose;  but  as  a  precautionary  and  preparatory  measure  it  was 
thought  proper,  that  the  four  missionary  brethren  should  all  be  examined 
by  the  Committee  relative  to  their  qualifications  for  the  service,  to  which 
they  held  themselves  devoted.  Accordingly  they  attended  a  session  of 
the  Committee,  and  were  examined,  and  approved.  In  the  mean  time, 
arrangements  were  made  for  Mr.  Judson's  special  mission  to  England; 
and  he  was  fitted  away  with  all  convenient  despatch.  The  precise  views 
of  the  Committee,  in  this  measure,  will  more  distinctly  be  seen  by  the 
letter  of  instructions  which  was  given  to  Mr.  Judson,  and  which  in  this 
place  the  Committee  beg  leave  to  submit. 

Mr.  ADONIRAM  JUDSON, — As  you  and  your  brethren,  Samuel  Newell, 
Samuel  Nott,  and  Gordon  Hall,  have  professed  to  hold  yourselves  sacredly 
devoted  to  the  service  of  Christ,  in  some  part  or  parts  of  the  heathen 
world,  as  in  Divine  Providence  a  door  may  be  opened  to  you,  and  as, 
with  reference  to  this  important  object,  you  have  chosen  to  place  your 
selves  under  the  superintendence  and  direction  of  the  American  Board 
of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions;  the  Prudential  Committee  of  the 
said  Board,  after  obtaining  satisfaction  in  regard  to  your  qualifications 
severally  for  the  contemplated  service,  and  seriously  consulting  on  the 
subject  at  large,  have  judged  it  advisable  to  have  a  full  and  distinct  un 
derstanding  with  the  Directors  of  the  London  Missionary  Society,  in  rela 
tion  to  the  general  object.  For  this  purpose  they  have  determined  on 
sending  you,  dear  Sir,  to  England,  under  the  following  instructions. 

Agreeably  to  arrangements  made,  you  will  sail  for  England  in  the  ship 
Packet;  and  on  your  arrival  at  her  port  of  destination,  you  will  proceed, 
as  soon  as  convenient,  to  London,  and  deliver  your  letter  of  introduction 
to  the  Rev.  George  Burder,  Secretary  of  the  London  Missionary  Society. 
Mr.  Burder,  we  doubt  not,  will  receive  you  with  Christian  courtesy,  and 
from  him,  and  his  brethren  of  the  Board  of  Directors,  you  will  receive 
such  notices  as  will  enable  you  to  accomplish  in  the  best  manner  the 
design  now  in  view.  A  principal  object  of  your  attention  will  be  to 
ascertain,  as  distinctly  as  possible,  whether  any  arid  what  arrangements 
can  be  made  for  a  concert  of  measures  in  relation  to  Missions,  between 
the  American  Board  of  Commissioners  and  the  London  Missionary 
Society.  Particularly,  whether,  if  circumstances  should  render  it  desir 
able,  you  and  your  brethren  can  be  supported  in  Missionary  service  for 


1811.  REPORT.  17 

any  time,  by  the  London  funds,  without  committing  yourselves  wholly 
and  finally  to  the  direction  of  the  London  Society.  Or  whether  it  may 
be  in  any  case  consistent  for  the  mission  to  be  supported  partly  by  them, 
and  partly  by  us.  And  if  so,  under  whose  direction  it  must  be  held. 
On  these  points  you  will  possess  yourself  of  the  views  of  the  Directors  of 
the  London  Society,  and  receive  their  propositions  for  our  consideration. 
You  will,  also,  during  your  stay  in  England,  avail  yourself  of  your  oppor 
tunities  and  advantages  for  obtaining  ample  and  correct  information, 
relating  to  missionary  fields,  the  requisite  preparations  for  missionary 
services,  the  most  eligible  methods  of  executing  missions,  and  generally, 
to  whatever  may  be  conducive  to  the  missionary  interest;  and  the  most 
important  parts  of  such  information  as  you  may  obtain,  you  will  commit 
to  writing,  for  the  use  of  the  American  Board. 

As  it  is  not  expected  that  you  will  be  at  your  own  charge  in  this  en 
gagement,  you  will  keep  a  full  account  of  your  expenditures,  for  adjust 
ment  on  your  return. 

We  commend  you,  dear  brother,  to  the  Providence  and  the  grace  of 
God,  with  fervent  prayers  for  your  safety,  your  success,  and  your  happi 
ness.  In  behalf  of  the  Prudential  Committee  of  the  American  Board  of 
Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions. 

Yours,  dear  brother,  with  great  affection,         SAMUEL  WORCESTER. 

The  instructions  were  accompanied  by  an  official  letter  from  the  Cor 
responding  Secretary  to  the  Secretary  of  the  London  Missionary  Society, 
which,  for  the  further  satisfaction  of  the  Board,  it  may  be  proper  in  this 
connection  to  exhibit. 

Salem,  January  3,  1811. 

REV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — Inclosed  with  this  you  will  receive  a  printed 
paper,  in  which  you  will  see  in  general  what  has  recently  been  done  in 
this  country  in  relation  to  foreign  missions.  Four  young  gentlemen, 
Messrs.  Adoniram  Judson,  jun.,  Samuel  Newell,  and  Samuel  Nott,  jun., 
whose  names  you  will  find  in  the  paper  referred  to,  and  Mr.  Gordon  Hall, 
have  offered  themselves  as  candidates  for  missions  to  the  heathen,  under 
a  solemn  profession  that  they  have  devoted  themselves  to  God  for  this 
arduous  service,  wherever  in  his  Providence  he  may  see  fit  to  employ 
them.  These  beloved  brethren  have  all  passed  through  a  course  of  col- 
legial  education  and  received  a  collegial  degree.  Since  leaving  the  uni 
versities  they  have  completed  a  course  of  studies  at  the  Theological 
Institution  in  this  vicinity,  where  they  have  acquitted  themselves  to  the 
high  satisfaction  of  their  instructors  and  friends.  According  to  our 
established  order,  they  have  been  regularly  licensed  for  the  Christian 
ministry;  and  for  a  considerable  time  they  have  all  preached  in  our 
churches  to  good  acceptance.  Their  moral  and  Christian  reputation  is 
good,  and  their  talents  and  attainments  are  respectable.  Before  the 
Prudential  Committee  of  the  American  Board  of  Commissioners  for  For 
eign  Missions  they  have  passed  an  examination  in  form,  relative  to  their 
religious  sentiments,  their  religious  feelings,  and  their  views  in  offering 
themselves  for  the  missionary  service:  and  their  answers  and  declara 
tions  throughout  were  highly  satisfactory.  They  profess  their  full  belief 
in  the  articles  of  faith  which  are  established  in  the  Theological  Institu 
tion,  a  copy  of  which  you  will  receive;  and  the  Prudential  Committee 
3 


18  REPORT.  1811. 

have  great  confidence  that  they  have  received  the  truth  in  love;  that  they 
are  persons  of  sincere  and  ardent  piety;  that  they  have  offered  themselves 
for  the  missionary  service  from  the  best  motives;  and,  in  a  word,  that 
they  have  qualifications  for  distinguished  usefulness.  The  manner  in 
which  these  young  men  have  come  forward,  together  with  a  similar  dis 
position  manifested  by  several  others,  has  made,  extensively,  a  deep 
impression,  and  excited  a  lively  interest.  It  is  gratefully  hailed  as  an 
indication  that  the  Lord  is  about  to  do  something  by  his  friends  in  this 
country,  in  furtherance  of  the  great  design  in  which  their  brethren  in 
England  have  been  so  nobly  and^so  exemplarily  engaged. 

On  our  own  continent,  indeed,  there  are  many  millions  of  men  "sit 
ting  in  darkness  and  in  the  region  and  shadow  of  death,"  and  our  breth 
ren  in  England  may  wonder  that,  while  such  is  the  fact,  we  should  turn 
our  views  to  any  other  part  of  the  world.  But  the  attempts  which  have 
been  made  to  evangelize  the  aboriginal  tribes  of  the  North  American 
wilderness,  have  been  attended  with  so  many  discouragements,  and  South 
America  is  yet  in  so  unpromising  a  state,  that  the  opinion  very  generally 
prevalent  is,  that  for  the  Pagans  on  this  continent  but  little  can  immedi 
ately  be  done.  Hence,  though  the  hope  is  entertained,  that  the  time  is 
coming  when  the  benevolent  exertions  of  the  Redeemer's  friends  here, 
for  spreading  the  knowledge  of  his  name,  may  be  successfully  employed 
nearer  home;  yet  at  present  the  Eastern  world  is  thought  to  offer  a  more 
promising  field. 

As  yet  however,  we  have  no  adequate  funds  established,  for  the  sup 
port  of  distant  and  expensive  missions.  What  may  be  done  in  the  course 
of  a  short  time  we  know  not.  It  is  the  desire  and  the  prayer  of  many, 
that  American  missionaries  may  have  American  support;  and  we  are  not 
without  hope  that  He,  to  whom  the  silver  and  the  gold  belong,  will  open 
the  hearts  of  the  rich  among  us  for  this  interesting  purpose.  Should  this 
hope  be  realized,  and  missionary  funds  to  any  considerable  amount  be 
raised,  they  will  probably  be  placed  under  such  an  arrangement  as  to  be 
employed  either  in  the  East  or  on  our  own  continent,  as  Divine  Provi 
dence  may  direct. 

Under  existing  circumstances,  the  American  Board  are  desirous  to 
open  a  communication  with  the  London  Missionary  Society,  whose  knowl 
edge  of  missionary  concerns  is  ample,  and  the  praise  of  whose  liberality 
and  persevering  exertions  is  in  all  parts  of  the  world.  For  this  purpose 
Mr.  Judson,  one  of  the  missionary  brethren,  of  whom  you  have  already 
some  knowledge,  and  who  has  been  favored  with  a  letter  from  you,  has 
been  appointed  to  go  to  London.  To  your  courtesy  and  Christian  atten 
tion  he  is  most  affectionately  and  respectfully  recommended;  and  for  the 
particular  objects  for  which  he  is  sent,  I  beg  leave  to  refer  you  to  his 
letter  of  instructions. 

Besides  the  official  testimonial  contained  in  this  letter,  Mr.  Judson 
will  carry  with  him  others,  and  particularly  one  from  the  Faculty  of  the 
Theological  Institution  at  Andover;  an  Institution  which,  though  young, 
is  fast  rising  in  importance,  and  in  which,  both  on  account  of  the  princi 
ples  on  which  it  is  founded,  and  the  ability  and  piety  with  which  it  is 
conducted,  great  confidence  is  reposed.  Should  these  testimonials  be 
satisfactory,  and  should  it  in  the  event  be  thought  best  that  our  young 
brethren  should  be  resigned  to  the  patronage  and  direction  of  your  Soci- 


1811.  REPORT.  19 

ety,  your  venerable  and  highly  respected  Board  of  Directors  will  judge, 
whether,  after  the  course  of  studies  through  which  they  have  passed,  it 
will  be  expedient  for  them  to  spend  any  time  at  your  school  at  Gosport, 
and  whether,  for  any  purpose,  it  will  be  necessary  for  the  other  three  to 
go  to  England,  before  they  shall  be  actually  engaged  in  your  service. 

It  may  not  be  improper  to  state,  that  some  of  the  young  men  propose 
to  take  wives  with  them  to  the  missionary  field.  If  this  meet  the  appro 
bation  of  your  Board,  as  we  are  not  unapprized  of  the  laudable  care 
.  which  you  take  in  regard  to  the  character  not  only  of  your  missionaries 
themselves,  but  also  of  their  wives,  we  shall  certainly  consider  it  impor 
tant  that  similar  care  be  taken  here. 

With  great  personal  consideration,  and  in  behalf  of  the  American 
Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  I  tender  to  you,  dear  Sir, 
and  through  you  to  your  brethren  of  the  Board  of  Directors,  the  most 
affectionate  and  respectful  salutations. 

SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  Corresponding  Secretary, 
Rev.  George  Burder,  Secretary  of  the  London  Miss.  Society. 

Agreeably  to  his  instructions  Mr.  Judson  sailed  in  the  ship  Packet  of 
Boston,  about  the  first  of  January.  On  her  passage  out,  the  Packet  was 
captured  by  a  French  privateer.  Mr.  Judson  was  taken  out  and  carried 
first  to  Passage  in  Spain,  and  thence  to  Bayonne  in  France,  where  he 
was  cast  into  close  prison.  By  the  favor  of  Providence,  however,  he 
soon  obtained  a  release  from  his  confinement;  but  it  was  so  long  before 
he  could  obtain  permission  to  depart  from  France  for  England,  that  he 
did  not  arrive  in  London  until  May,  just  in  season  to  be  present  at  the 
annual  meeting  of  the  London  Missionary  Society.  He  staid  in  England 
about  six  weeks,  had  repeated  conferences  with  the  Directors  and  the 
Secretary  of  the  London  Society,  and  returned  to  this  country  in  August. 
His  reception  by  the  Directors,  and  the  result  of  conferences  with  them, 
wrill  appear  in  part  by  the  official  letter  which  he  brought  with  him  from 
their  Secretary  to  the  Corresponding  Secretary  of  this  Board,  which  it 
may  be  proper  to  introduce  in  this  place. 

TO    THE    REV.    MR.    WORCESTER. 

London,  June  11,  1811. 

REV.  AND  DEAR  SIR, — With  peculiar  pleasure  I  received  your  letter 
of  January  3d,  by  the  hands  of  our  worthy  young  friend,  Mr.  Judson, 
who  happily  obtained  his  liberty  just  time  enough  to  be  present  at  our 
annual  meeting. 

I  rejoice  greatly,  with  my  brethren  in  the  Direction  of  the  Missionary 
Society,  in  the  disposition  which  has  been  manifested  by  Messrs.  Judson, 
Newell.  Nott,  and  Hall,  towards  the  poor  heathen  in  the  East.  We  hail 
it  as  a  token  for  good,  that  the  Lord  has  mercy  in  store  for  myriads,  when 
he  thus  inclines  young  men  of  talents,  piety,  and  education  to  consecrate 
themselves  to  the  service  of  Christ  among  Pagan  nations;  and  the  Di 
rectors,  feeling  the  most  perfect  satisfaction  with  the  full  and  decided 
testimonies  given  by  you,  Sir,  your  colleagues,  and  other  reverend  gen 
tlemen,  to  the  character  of  the  young  men,  have  most  cordially  received 
them  as  Missionaries,  and  they  unite  with  them  in  wishing  that  they  may 
proceed  with  all  convenient  despatch,  from  your  shores  to  those  of  India. 


20  REPORT.  1811. 

By  the  official  letter  of  instructions  which  T  hope  will  be  ready  for  Mr. 
Judson  before  his  departure,  (which  we  lament  is  so  hasty)  you  will  per 
ceive  that  the  Directors  wish  they  may  proceed  to  Calcutta  (or  rather  to 
Madras,  if  possible,)  and  from  thence  to  Vizagapatam,  which  we  con 
sider  as  our  Head-Quarters;  and  there  to  abide  for  a  time,  as  various 
advantages,  we  think,  will  accrue  from  conversation  with  those  who  have 
been  sometime  there.  We  have  thought  it  a  matter  of  too  great  impor 
tance  hastily  to  be  decided  upon,  in  what  particular  place  they  shall 
labor,  and  after  all  that  we  are  now  able  to  say  on  the  subject,  we  must 
allow  some  latitude  to  the  brethren,  to  determine,  upon  the  most  delib 
erate  consultation,  what  stations  may  probably  be  found  the  best  and 
most  promising. 

We  have  long  had  in  view  the  great  city  and  populous  neighborhood 
of  Surat;  but  have  been  repeatedly  disappointed  in  our  attempts  to  send 
missionaries  thither.  Mr.  Spratt,  one  of  our  missionaries  lately  gone 
from  America,  has  been  thought  eligible  for  that  station;  but  he  must 
not  go  alone. 

We  have  also  had  in  view,  for  some  years,  Prince  of  Wales's 
Island  (or  Penang,)  which  has  lately  become  a  place  of  great  conse 
quence,  and  promises  to  be  the  key  of  Asia,  especially  of  the  vast  coun 
tries  of  the  Malays,  the  importance  of  which  has  appeared  to  us,  since 
our  acceptance  of  your  young  friends,  in  a  stronger  light  than  ever,  in 
consequence  of  what  Dr.  Buchanan  has  just  published  on  that  subject. 

But  we  must  intreat,  that  the  young  men  be  advised  by  you,  as  well 
as  by  us,  not  to  think  of  going  all  together  to  any  one  station,  in  the  first 
instance.  We  are  too  well  aware  of  the  jealousy  entertained  against 
missions  by  many  gentlemen  both  in  India  and  in  Britain,  to  venture  on 
a  step  which  might  excite  unnecessary  alarm.  Such  is  the  good  sense 
of  the  young  men,  and  such  their  regard  to  the  ultimate  success  of  their 
endeavors,  that  we  confidently  hope  they  will  be  satisfied  in  observing 
the  apostolic  pattern;  and  proceed  to  their  work,  two  and  two. 

The  young  men  have  expressed  their  inclination  to  enter  into  the 
married  state  before  their  departure.  On  some  accounts  this  is  certainly 
desirable;  but  where  new  stations  are  attempted,  we  have  always  been 
of  opinion  that  it  is  safest  and  best  for  a  missionary  to  go  alone:  this, 
however,  would  not  be  insisted  upon  in  the  present  case,  as  they  are 
going  to  a  civilized  country,  where  they  will  enjoy  the  protection  of  a 
regular  government. 

But  it  is  of  immense  importance  that  the  females  chosen  for  their 
companions,  should  be  truly  pious  persons,  of  tried  integrity  and  unblem 
ished  character;  prudent,  domestic,  humble;  not  looking  for  great  things 
in  this  world;  such  as  will  be  willing  to  deny  themselves,  and  take  up 
their  cross  and  follow  the  lowly  and  diligent  Son  of  God:  it  is  also  proper, 
that  they  should  be  persons  who  have  manifested  some  zeal  for  God,  in 
their  attention  to  the  education  of  poor  children,  visiting  the  sick,  or  in 
some  other  way;  for  without  some  ardent  love  to  Christ  and  religion,  we 
cannot  expect  that  they  will  prove  helpers  to  missionaries,  but  misera 
ble  hindrances. 

Now,  my  dear  Sir,  on  you  and  the  other  gentlemen  of  the  Prudential 
Committee,  or  others  who  may  be  thought  adequate,  the  Directors  must 
and  do  rely  with  confidence,  that  the  greatest  care  and  caution  may  be 


1811.  REPORT.  21 

observed,  and  that,  if  any  doubts  arise,  a  reasonable  time  be  allowed 
more  fully  to  develope  the  character,  even  though  the  union  should  be 
for  a  time  deferred,  and  the  young  woman  afterwards  go  out  to  join  her 
intended  partner.  But  such,  Sir,  appears  to  have  been  the  prudence  and 
care  with  which  your  committee  have  proceeded  with  regard  to  the  mis 
sionaries,  that  we  feel  confident  equal  care  will  be  employed  respecting 
their  partners. 

So  many  are  the  objects  of  our  attention,  that  we  are  obliged  to  pay  a 
sacred  and  constant  regard  to  economy,  in  order  that  we  may  support 
missions  already  established,  and  if  possible  commence  many  more. 
Already  our  expenditure  is  about  .£7,000  annually,  and  it  is  likely  that 
this  year  we  shall  expend  =£10,000.  Whether  the  liberality  of  the  Brit 
ish  public  will  keep  pace  with  our  exertions,  we  know  not.  We  hope  it 
will.  We  cannot,  therefore,  but  wish  that  prudent  and  zealous  endea 
vors  may  be  made  in  America  for  the  support  of  Foreign  missions,  and 
we  entertain  so  favorable  an  opinion  of  our  good  friends  in  the  United 
States,  that  we  cannot  suppose  they  will  permit  the  London  Society  to> 
serve  alone;  and  we  stand  fully  prepared  to  hear  of  general  and  liberal 
contributions,  as  soon  as  it  is  known  in  the  American  churches,  that  four 
of  their  brethren,  "flesh  of  their  flesh  and  bone  of  their  bone,"  and  ani 
mated  with  their  own  spirit  of  independence,  are  engaged  in  this  service. 
We  hope  the  religious  public  will  come  forward,  and  so  fill  your  funds, 
that  not  four  only,  but  forty  may  go  forth  with  apostolic  zeal — with  the 
zeal  of  Eliot,  Mayhew,  Brainerd,  (names  dear  to  us  as  to  you),  and  spread 
abroad  in  many  places,  the  sweet  savor  of  the  name  of  Jesus — ours  and 
yours. 

Indeed  we  have  just  heard  that  a  pious  lady,  one  of  the  first  promoters 
of  Foreign  Missions  among  you,  has  bequeathed  a  noble  sum  for  this 
purpose.  Ere  this,  I  doubt  not  the  example  has  been  followed  by  others, 
and  a  foundation  laid  for  the  most  generous  exertions. 

However,  should  the  Commissioners  not  find  it  convenient  at  present 
to  undertake  the  support  of  the  four  brethren,  the  Directors  will  agree 
to  allow  them  the  same  annual  salaries  as  are  given  to  their  missionaries: 
viz.  £100  a  year  to  a  single,  and  £150  a  year  to  a  married  missionary^ 
that  is,  until  they  are  able,  by  some  means,  not  incompatible  with  their 
missionary  engagements,  to  procure  their  own  support;  which  we  con 
sider  to  be  the  bounden  duty  of  every  missionary  to  attempt,  as  soon  as 
possible;  and  without  which  missions  can  never  be  very  widely  extended. 

We  shall  be  happy,  dear  Sir,  to  hear  from  you  as  fully,  and  as  fre 
quently,  as  possible. 

Be  pleased  to  present  the  cordial  respects  of  the  Directors,  to  all  the 
ministers  and  gentlemen  of  the  Board,  or  who  are  otherwise  engaged  in 
this  good  and  great  work. 

I  am,  Sir,  with  sincere  esteem,  your  affectionate  brother  and  fellow 
laborer.  GEO:  BURDER,  Secretary* 

The  Board  will  perceive,  that  though  the  London  Directors  gave  the 
most  favorable  reception  to  our  messenger,  and  shewred  the  most  Chris 
tian  zeal  towards  the  general  object;  yet  in  this  letter  of  the  Rev.  Mr. 
Burder,  nothing  is  said  in  direct  reference  to  the  points  on  which  Mr. 
Judson  was  instructed  to  confer  with  the  Directors,  relating  to  a  co-oper- 


22  REPORT.  1811. 

ation  in  the  support  and  conduct  of  missions.  Though  the  Committee 
have  not  received  any  written  communication  from  Mr.  Judson,  yet  they 
have  learned  from  him  in  general,  that  the  London  Directors  are  of 
opinion,  that  a  joint  conduct  of  missions  will  not  be  practicable;  and  that 
although  they  are  ready  to  receive  our  young  brethren  under  their  pat 
ronage,  and  would  gladly  have  aid  from  us  in  respect  to  their  support,  yet 
they  do  not  think  it  consistent  to  admit  this  Board  to  a  participation  with 
them  in  the  direction  of  the  mission.  The  Prudential  Committee  have 
always  perceived,  that  a  co-operation  between  the  London  Society  and 
this  Board,  in  the  conduct  of  a  mission,  must  be  attended  with  difficulty. 
They  thought  it  possible,  however,  that  the  Directors  of  the  London 
Society,  with  their  more  perfect  acquaintance  with  missionary  concerns, 
might  point  out  some  way  in  which  a  co-operation  might  be  practicable 
and  useful;  and  if  not,  yet  a  hope  was  entertained,  that  it  might  be  con 
sistent  with  the  views  and  means  of  the  Directors  to  afford  some  pecu 
niary  aid  to  a  mission  to  be  directed  by  this  Board,  until  adequate  funds 
could  be  raised  in  this  country.  It  now  appears,  that  nothing  of  this 
kind  is  to  be  expected;  the  plans  of  the  London  Board  are  so  extensive 
as  to  require  all  the  funds  at  their  command;  and  if  any  concert  of  meas 
ures  be  had  with  them,  it  must  be  in  the  way  of  our  giving  pecuniary  aid 
to  missions  under  their  direction,  rather  than  to  that  of  receiving  aid 
from  them  to  missions  under  our  own  direction. 

On  the  whole  then,  it  now  rests  with  this  Board  to  determine,  whether 
it  will  be  expedient  to  resign  the  four  missionary  brethren,  or  any  of  them, 
to  the  London  Directors;  and  in  that  case  what  aid,  if  any,  it  will  be 
proper  to  give  towards  fitting  them  out  for  the  mission  and  supporting 
them  in  it;  or  whether  it  will  be  better  to  retain  the  young  gentlemen 
under  the  direction  of  this  Board,  and  trust,  under  Providence,  in  the 
liberality  of  the  Christian  public  in  this  country  for  the  means  of  support 
ing  them.  It  is  the  opinion  of  the  Committee,  which  they  beg  leave 
respectfully  to  submit,  that  the  latter  is  to  be  preferred.  The  grounds 
on  which  this  opinion  rests  are  briefly  the  following.  By  raising  up 
young  men  among  us  endowed  with  the  spirit  and  qualifications  for  mis 
sions,  Divine  Providence  seems  distinctly  to  call  on  the  Christian  public 
in  this  country  for  the  requisite  means  of  their  support,  and  upon  this 
Board  to  apply  the  means  and  direct  the  missionary  labors.  From  this 
view  of  the  subject,  and  from  what  has  already  come  to  our  knowledge 
of  the  disposition  of  individuals  towards  the  object,  the  Committee  feel  a 
confidence  that  He,  to  whom  the  silver  and  the  gold  belong,  will  open  the 
hands  of  the  rich  and  liberal  among  us,  so  as  shortly  to  provide  the  means 
for  supporting  a  foreign  mission  upon  a  promising  scale.  Though  at 
present  the  Eastern  world  appears  to  hold  out  the  most  favorable  pros 
pects  for  missionary  efforts;  yet  the  Committee  presume,  that  this  Board 
will  not  lose  sight  of  the  heathen  tribes  on  this  continent,  but  will  make 
it  an  object  in  their  arrangements  to  be  in  readiness  to  meetfthe  openings 
of  Providence  for  imparting  the  knowledge  of  the  gospel  to  them.  And, 
finally,  it  is  believed  by  the  Committee,  that  if  the  missionary  brethren 
are  retained  under  the  direction  of  this  Board,  a  greater  interest  will  be 
excited  in  the  American  public,  greater  liberality  for  the  support  of  mis 
sions  will  be  displayed,  and  greater  exertions  for  the  missionary  cause 
will  be  made,  and,  on  the  whole,  more  will  be  done  for  the  spread  of  the 
gospel  and  the  promotion  of  the  Redeemer's  kingdom. 


1811.  REPORT.  23 

The  Committee  have  expressed  a  confidence  that  adequate  missionary 
funds  may  be  raised  in  this  country;  not  indeed  because  funds  to  any 
considerable  amount  have  been  actually  realized.  But  the  Committee 
feel  themselves  bound  thankfully  to  express,  that,  for  the  time  which  has 
intervened  since  the  institution  of  this  Board,  they  think  the  encourage 
ment  good.  It  is  known  to  this  Board,  that  a  bequest  to  the  amount  of 
thirty  thousand  dollars  for  the  foreign  missionary  use,  was  left  by  the 
late  Mrs.  Norris  of  Salem.  That  bequest  indeed  is  at  present  under 
litigation.  In  addition  to  this,  several  smaller  donations  have  been  made 
to  the  amount  of  about  fourteen  hundred  dollars,  making  the  whole 
amount  of  the  funds  already  given  to  this  Board,  about  thirty-one  thou 
sand  and  four  hundred  dollars.  This,  given  in  the  short  space  of  a  few 
months  after  the  Board  became  known  to  the  public,  presents  itself  to 
the  Committee  in  the  light  of  a  providential  intimation,  that  a  reasonable 
reliance  may  be  placed  on  American  funds  for  the  support  of  American 
missionaries.  The  London  Missionary  Society  have  for  some  years  past 
expended  about  <£7,000  sterling,  annually,  in  the  support  of  foreign  mis 
sions;  and  this  year  it  is  expected  that  they  will  expend  ,£10,000.  Shall 
the  four  American  missionaries  then  be  cast  upon  the  London  funds? 
Is  not  the  American  public  as  well  able  to  supply  <£600  annually,  the 
sum  estimated  to  be  sufficient  for  the  support  of  four  missionaries,  as  the 
British  public  is  to  supply  .£10,000?  Would  it  not  indeed  be  a  reproach 
to  our  character  as  a  Christian  nation,  as  well  as  shew  an  ungrateful  dis 
trust  of  Providence,  should  we  resign  our  missionaries  to  the  London 
Society,  under  an  apprehension  that  we  could  riot  support  them? 

If,  however,  it  should  be  determined  to  retain  the  missionary  brethren 
with  a  view  to  employ  them  in  a  mission  to  be  supported  and  directed  by 
this  Board,  it  readily  occurs,  that  exertions  must  be  made  upon  an  exten 
sive  scale,  and  with  zeal  and  perseverance,  for  raising  the  requisite 
funds.  In  conformity  with  the  views  of  the  Board  at  their  former  meet 
ing,  the  Committee  are  still  of  opinion  that  the  best  way  to  raise  the 
funds  will  be  by  application  to  individuals,  especially  to  the  rich,  but  not 
to  the  neglect  of  the  less  wealthy,  in  all  parts  of  the  country.  And  it  is 
respectfully  submitted  whether  some  measures  may  not  be  taken  by  the 
Board  to  engage  the  clergy  and  other  influential  characters,  extensively, 
to  attend  zealously  to  this  subject. 

The  Committee  have  made  it  an  object  of  their  attention  and  inquiry, 
to  obtain  information  with  respect  to  the  best  %tations  for  missionary 
establishments.  The  Eastern  world,  especially  Hindoostan,  the  Malayan 
Archipelago,  and  the  Birman  empire,  presents  most  extensive  fields  for 
missionary  labors;  fields  which  appear  to  be  fast  whitening  for  the  har 
vest.  All  those  vast  regions  are  full  of  people  sitting  in  darkness  and  in 
the  region  and  shadow  of  death,  and  by  experiments  already  made,  it 
has  been  abundantly  evinced  that  it  is  by  no  means  a  vain  thing  to  at 
tempt  to  spread  the  gospel  of  salvation  among  them.  But  the  most 
favorable  station  for  an  American  mission  in  the  East  would  probably  be 
in  some  part  of  the  Birman  empire.  The  population  of  that  empire  is 
great  and  somewhat  advanced  in  civilization;  the  character  and  manners 
of  the  people  are  perhaps  as  favorable  to  the  reception  of  the  gospel  as 
will  be  found  in  any  part  of  the  heathen  world;  and  what  deserves  par 
ticular  consideration,  they  are  not  within  the  limits  of  the  British  empire, 


34  REPORT.  1811. 

and  therefore  not  so  much  within  the  proper  province  of  the  British 
Missionary  Societies. 

On  our  own  continent,  it  is  well  known  to  the  Board,  there  are  many 
tribes  of  men  in  Pagan  darkness.  Notwithstanding  the  discourage 
ments  which  have  hitherto  attended  the  efforts  which  have  been  made 
to  evangelize  the  American  Indians,  there  are  many  reasons  which  for 
cibly  press  upon  an  American  Missionary  Board  a  very  tender  and  serious 
attention  to  this  portion  of  the  Pagan  world. 

On  the  whole,  therefore,  the  Committee  beg  leave  to  submit,  whether 
it  would  not  be  best  for  this  Board  to  fix  upon  some  place  in  the  Birman 
empire  for  a  missionary  station  in  the  East,  and  upon  some  place  within 
the  territories  of  the  Indians  of  this  continent  for  a  missionary  station  in 
the  West;  and  direct  their  attention  to  these  two  points,  with  a  view  to 
follow  the  intimations  of  Providence  in  regard  to  them,  respectively,  and 
to  establish  missions  in  them  as  soon,  and  upon  as  extensive  a  scale,  as 
their  means  will  admit. 

The  mission  of  Mr.  Judson  to  England  was  attended  with  expense;  to 
what  amount  exactly  the  Committee  are  not  able  to  state,  as  the  want  of 
a  Treasurer,  and  the  shortness  of  the  time  since  Mr.  Judson's  return, 
have  rendered  it  impracticable  to  complete  a  seasonable  adjustment  of  his 
accounts. 

In  the  close  of  this  report,  the  Committee  would  devoutly  congratulate 
the  Board  on  the  evident  smiles  of  Providence  upon  the  design  of  this 
infant  institution.  The  cause  is  God's,  and  it  must  succeed.  The  object 
is  the  salvation  of  men;  the  furtherance  of  the  great  purpose  for  which 
the  Redeemer  came  down  from  heaven  and  died,  the  extension  of  his 
kingdom  and  the  advancement  of  his  glory.  In  this  cause,  therefore,  we 
have  every  Christian  inducement  to  be  steadfast  and  immovable,  always 
abounding  in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  for  as  much  as  we  know,  that  our 
labor  will  not  be  in  vain  in  the  Lord. 


SAMUEL  SPRING,  )  n     ,    +>  -,  n 

SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  }r™dmtial  Committee. 


DONATIONS    TO   FOREIGN    MISSIONS, 

In  the  foregoing  report,  the  sum  of  fourteen  hundred  dollars  is  mentioned  as  having  been 
given  to  be  expended  in  Foreign  Missions.     The  particulars  of  this  sum  are  as  follows  : 

Money  collected  in  Hadley,  received  by  the  hands  of  the  Rev.  Dr.  Lyman,  -  -  47  98 
From  individuals  in  the  Society  of  West  Brook,  (Ct.}  received  by  the  Rev.  Mr. 

Chapin,  -  -  -  -  ,  -  8  00 

Donation  from  a  friend  to  Foreign  Missions,  received  by  Mr.  Chapin,  -  410  20 
Donation  from  William  Woodbridge,  Stonington,  (Ct.)  by  the  hands  of  Gen.  Hunt- 

ington,  -  ....  ,  v^;r  -  -  10  00 

From  two  young  ladies,  New  London,  -  .  ,••,«.  '  -  -  -  -  4  00 

From  Rev.  Doctor  Wolworlh,  Long  Island,  ^  «  '  •  -  J®*  •  ;  1500 

From  a  friend  to  missions,  New  London,  ;.«•  -;  '  •  *  :  .-:  '<•''•£•*  -  -  50  00 

From  another  friend  to  missions,  New  London,  •  r  ..  -  '•.;«.  -  25000 

From  a  friend  to  missions,  Norwich,  -  "'  -  50  00 

From  sundry  persons  unknown,  -  -  9  72 

From  individuals,  by  the  hands  of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Huntington  of  Boston,  -  212  00 

From  Deacon  Samuel  H.  Walley,  Boston,  -  100  00 

$1,166  90 

Mr.  Bartlet,  Mrs.  Norris,  and  others,  gave   to  fit  out  Mr.  Judson,  more  than  sufficient  to 
make  up  the  sum  specified. 


1811  ADDRESS      TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  25 

ADDRESS    TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC. 

NOVEMBER,  1811. 

Immediately  after  their  first  organization  in  September  of  the  last 
year,  the  American  Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions  re 
spectfully  solicited  the  serious  and  liberal  attention  of  the  Christian 
public  to  the  great  object  of  their  appointment.  They  are  now  happy 
in  having  it  in  their  power  to  acknowledge,  with  gratitude  to  the  Father 
of  all  good,  that  the  solicitation  was  not  in  vain.  Many  have  viewed 
the  object  with  deep  interest,  and  some  have  embraced  the  earliest  op 
portunity  of  promoting  it  by  their  pious  liberality.  The  name  of  the 
late  Mrs.  Norris  in  particular,  is  endeared  to  thousands;  and  what  she 
has  done  will  be  told  for  a  memorial  of  her  in  distant  lands,  and  in 
generations  to  come.  Animated  by  the  encouragement  given  them,  and 
impelled  by  a  regard  to  their  high  responsibility,  the  Commissioners  have 
made  an  important  advance  in  the  prosecution  of  their  design.  At  their 
late  annual  meeting  they  resolved  to  establish,  as  soon  as  practicable,  a 
Christian  mission  in  the  East,  and  another  in  the  West.  In  the  East, 
their  attention  will  first  be  directed  to  the  Birman  empire;  and  in  the 
West,  to  the  Caghnawaga  tribe  of  Indians. 

The  Birman  empire,  which  lies  on  the  farther  peninsula  of  India, 
between  Hindoostan  and  China,  comprises  within  its  present  limits  the 
native  country  of  the  Birmahs,  together  with  the  ancient  kingdoms  of 
Arracan  and  Pegu,  a  considerable  part  of  Siam,  and  several  smaller  ter 
ritories;  all  which,  though  formerly  subject  to  their  own  independent 
princes,  are  now  reduced  under  the  power  of  one  Imperial  chief.  The 
population,  according  to  the  most  probable  estimate,  amounts  to  not  less 
than  fifteen  millions;  and  the  people  are  considerably  advanced  in  civil 
ization.  They  are  vigorous,  intelligent,  and  tractable,  and  in  many 
respects  superior  to  the  Hindoos;  yet  not  less  deeply  immersed  in  the 
darkness  and  corruptions  of  Paganism.  On  the  whole,  it  is  believed, 
that  scarcely  any  part  of  the  world  presents  a  more  inviting  or  a  more 
important  field  for  Christian  missionaries,  than  does  the  Birman  empire. 

This  nation,  it  is  true,  is  at  a  great  distance  from  us;  but  is  it  not  com- 
posed  of  our  brethren,  descended  from  the  same  common  parents,  in 
volved  in  the  consequences  of  the  same  fatal  apostacy  from  God,  and 
inhabiting  the  same  world,  to  every  creature  in  which  the  Savior  has 
directed  that  his  Gospel  should  be  preached?  And  by  whom  is  this  di 
rection  to  be  obeyed,  in  regard  to  them,  if  not  by  us?  The  Christians  of 
Great  Britain  are,  indeed,  ardently  engaged  in  the  glorious  work  of 
evangelizing  the  nations;  but  in  imparting  the  word  of  life  to  the  hun 
dreds  of  millions  ready  to  perish  in  Asia  and  Africa,  they  need  and  they 
desire  our  help. 

Though  the  field  is  distant,  it  is  not  unknown;  and  as  reasonable 
calculations  can  be  made  with  respect  to  success  in  this  region,  as  we 
can  ordinarily  hope  to  make  with  respect  to  an  untried  object  of  this 
nature.  Distance  of  place  alters  not  the  claims  of  the  heathen,  so  long 
as  the  means  of  access  to  them  are  in  our  power.  Christianity  is  equally 
4 


216  ADDRESS    TO     THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  1811. 

a  blessing  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  polar  circle,  and  to  those  of  the 
torrid  zone.  The  salvation  of  the  soul  is  all-important  to  the  hea 
then  natives  of  the  Indian  peninsulas,  as  well  as  to  the  Christian  de 
scendants  of  pious  ancestors.  Wherever  the  knowledge  of  Christ  can 
be  spread,  there  is  the  field  for  Christian  exertions.  A  few  years  ago, 
our  countrymen  sent  a  donation  to  the  Baptist  Missionaries  in  Bengal, 
to  assist  them  in  translating  and  printing  the  Bible.  Though  the  place 
was  distant,  the  remittance  soon  arrived,  and  was  immediately  appro 
priated  to  its  destined  object;  and  the  natives  of  Hindoostan,  to  a  greater 
extent  than  would  have  been  otherwise  practicable,  are  now  reading  the 
word  of  God  in  their  own  languages,  in  consequence  of  this  very  dona 
tion.  It  is  not  too  much  to  hope,  that  those  pious  persons  who  shall 
enable  the  Commissioners  to  establish  a  permanent  mission  in  the  East, 
will,  in  a  few  years,  hear  a  good  report  from  the  scene  of  their  liberal 
ity;  that  they  will  read  of  Christian  schools,  and  Christian  churches, 
casting  a  mild  and  salutary  light  through  dark  regions,  and  affording 
a  happy  presage  of  the  latter  day-glory. 

But  while  the  Commissioners  view  with  deep  interest  the  populous 
regions  of  the  East,  they  are  not  unmindful  of  the  Pagan  tribes  on  our 
own  continent.  Among  these,  no  tribe  perhaps  bids  fairer  to  give  the 
Gospel  a  favorable  reception,  and  eventually  an  extensive  spread,  than 
the  Caghnawagas  in  Lower  Canada.  Their  situation  is  of  easy  access; 
they  are  well  disposed  towards  the  white  people,  and  have  great  influ 
ence  with  their  red  brethren  of  other  tribes.  And  a  fact  not  to  be  dis 
regarded  among  the  indications  of  Providence  is,  that  a  native  of  that 
tribe,  a  pious  young  man,  whose  heart  burns  with  a  desire  to  carry  the 
Gospel  to  his  countrymen,  is  now  in  a  course  of  education,  and  gives 
promise  of  eminent  usefulness. 

Here,  then,  are  presented  two  great  fields  for  missionary  labors;  fields 
rich  in  hopeful  prospects,  and  offering  ample  scope  for  Christian  benev 
olence  and  exertion.  Laborers  are  also  ready  to  enter  the  fields,  and 
impatiently  wait  for  the  means  of  conveyance  and  support.  Can  these 
means  be  withheld?  Can  the  Christians  of  this  favored  land  be  willing1, 
that,  for  the  want  of  these  means,  millions  of  their  fellow-men  should 
remain  in  darkness,  and  perish  for  lack  of  knowledge? 

To  be  impressed  with  the  importance  of  the  Gospel  to  the  character 
and  condition  of  man,  even  in  the  present  world,  we  need  only  glance 
at  a  comparative  view  of  Pagan  and  Christian  nations;  we  need  only 
look,  indeed,  at  the  difference,  as  exhibited  by  the  excellent  Dr.  Bu 
chanan,  between  the  Pagan  natives  at  Benares  and  Juggernaut,  and  the 
Christian  natives  at  Tranquebar  and  Cande-nad.  The  infinite  import 
ance  of  the  Gospel  to  the  character  and  condition  of  mankind  with 
reference  to  the  world  to  come,  no  sound  believer  in  Divine  revelation 
can  doubt.  The  gospel  is  the  grand  instrument,  ordained  by  infinite 
wisdom  "to  turn  men  from  darkness  unto  light,  and  from  the  power  of 
Satan  unto  God."  It  is,  in  effect,  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation 
"to  every  one  that  believeth,  to  the  Jew  first,  and  also  to  the  Greek." 

How,  then,  is  the  Gospel  to  be  imparted  to  men  in  the  dark  places  of 
the  earth,  if  not  through  the  instrumentality  of  missions?  Is  not  this 
the  very  way  which  the  glorious  Author  of  the  Gospel  has  himself  seen 
fit  to  appoint?  Is  it  not  the  way,  and  the  only  way,  in  which  any  part 


1811.  ADDRESS     TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  27 

of  the  world  has  ever  been  evangelized?  What  were  the  apostles  and 
first  preachers  of  the  Gospel,  by  whom  so  many  nations  were  converted, 
but  Christian  missionaries?  Was  it  not  by  missions  that  the  Gospel  was 
made  known,  according  to  the  commandment  of  the  everlasting  God, 
for  the  obedience  of  faith,  to  the  nations  in  the  west  and  north  of  Eu 
rope,  in  the  sixth,  the  seventh,  and  the  following  centuries;  and  that  our 
own  remote  ancestors  were  turned  from  their  idols  to  serve  the  living 
God,  and  to  transmit  the  knowledge  of  salvation  to  their  posterity? 
Had  it  not  been  for  missions,  the  British  islands,  in  which  so  many  im 
mortal  spirits  have  been  sanctified  by  the  truth  and  prepared  for  heaven, 
and  in  which  so  much  Christian  beneficence  is  now  displayed;  these 
very  islands,  from  which  we  derive  our  origin,  our  language,  our  laws, 
and  our  religion,  might  still  have  been  inhabited  by  savages  worshipping 
in  the  groves  of  the  Druids,  or  offering  human  sacrifices  to  their  false 
gods. 

In  later  times,  Ziegenbalg  and  Swartz  in  the  East,  and  Eliot  and 
Brainerd  in  the  West,  have  given  illustrious  examples  of  what  might  be 
done  by  patient  and  persevering  zeal  in  missionary  labors;  and  not  only 
shall  their  memory  long  be  blessed  on  earth,  but  their  witness  is  in 
heaven,  and  their  record  on  high. 

By  means  of  the  single  missionary  establishment  at  Tranquebar,  first 
commenced  by  Ziegenbalg  about  a  century  ago,  and  afterwards  conduct 
ed  by  his  worthy  successors,  particularly  by  the  venerable  Swartz,  not 
less,  it  is  estimated,  than  eighty  thousand  Pagans,  "forsaking  their  idols 
and  their  vices,  have  been  added  to  the  Christian  Church."  If  not  so 
much  can  be  said  of  the  missions  of  Eliot  and  Brainerd,  it  is  to  be  con 
sidered,  that  their  labors  were  among  a  people  scattered  in  the  wilder 
ness,  and  that  men  of  a  like  spirit  were  not  found  to  succeed  them  in 
their  work,  and  prosecute  their  pious  design.  Still,  however,  there 
were  precious  fruits  of  their  labors,  which  will  remain  for  joy  and  praise, 
in  the  kingdom  of  the  Redeemer,  when  this  world  shall  be  no  more. 
The  general  history  of  such  missions  as  have  at  any  time  been  conduct 
ed  on  Christian  principles,  and  with  a  real  regard  to  the  salvation  of  the 
heathen,  affords  abundant  encouragement  to  proceed  with  vigor,  in  the 
same  glorious  cause. 

But  if  so  much  has  been  done  by  a  few  men,  and  in  ordinary  times, 
what  may  we  not  expect  from  united  and  extensive  exertions  in  the  pre 
sent  extraordinary  period  of  the  world?  For  sometime  before  the  Mes 
siah  came,  a  light  to  lighten  the  Gentiles  and  the  glory  of  his  people 
Israel,  an  expectation  extensively  prevailed,  that  a  glorious  luminary 
was  about  to  arise,  and  an  important  change  to  commence.  Prophecies 
to  this  effect  were  on  record,  and  the  providence  of  God  strikingly  indi 
cated  their  approaching  fulfilment.  Something  very  similar  to  all  this 
is  manifest  in  the  present  age.  If  the  Messiah  was  then  the  Desire  of 
all  nations,  his  millennial  reign  is  no  less  so  now.  If  the  seventy  pro 
phetic  weeks  of  Daniel  were  then  drawing  to  a  close,  the  1260  mystical 
days  of  the  same  Jewish  prophet,  and  of  the  Christian  prophet  John,  are 
now  hastening  to  their  completion.  If  the  providence  of  God  strikingly 
indicated  the  approach  of  the  glorious  change  then  expected,  not  less 
strikingly  do  the  unusual  events,  which  now  astonish  the  nations,  indi 
cate  the  approach  of  a  change  still  more  glorious,  because  more  com- 


2S  ADDRESS    TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  1811. 

plete  and  universal.  The  Lord  himself  has  arisen  to  shake  terribly 
the  earth,  and  to  plead  his  own  cause  with  the  nations.  But  though  the 
day  of  vengeance  is  in  his  heart,  the  year  of  his  redeemed  has  come. 

Prophecy,  history,  and  the  present  state  of  the  world,  seem  to  unite 
in  declaring,  that  the  great  pillars  of  the  Papal  and  Mahommedan  im 
postures  are  now  tottering  to  their  fall.  The  civilized  world  is  in  a  state 
of  awful  convulsion  and  unparalleled  distress.  At  'the  same  time, 
Christians  are  awakened  to  a  perception  of  their  peculiar  duties,  and  to 
correspondent  labors  and  sacrifices.  New  facilities  are  afforded  for  the 
dispersion  of  the  Scriptures  in  many  languages,  for  the  establishment  of 
missions,  and  the  general  promulgation  of  the  Gospel.  The  enormity 
of  the  heathen  superstition,  and  the  unutterable  evils  which  march  in 
its  train,  stand  forth  to  view  in  all  their  hideous  proportions.  Now  is  the 
time  for  the  followers  of  Christ  to  come  forward,  bodly,  and  engage 
earnestly  in  the  great  work  of  enlightening  and  reforming  mankind. 
Never  was  the  glory  of  the  Christian  religion  more  clearly  discernible; 
never  was  the  futility  of  all  other  schemes  more  manifest;  never  were 
the  encouragements  to  benevolent  exertion  greater,  than  at  the  present 
day.  In  the  great  conflict  between  truth  and  error,  what  Christian 
will  refuse  to  take  an  active  part?  Satan  has  long  deceived  the  nations, 
and  held  in  ignorance  and  idolatry  much  the  greater  part  of  the  hu 
man  race.  When  his  empire  is  assailed,  and  his  throne  begins  to 
crumble  under  him,  what  friend  of  the  Redeemer  will  refuse  to  come 
to  the  help  of  the  Lord,  to  the  help  of  the  Lord  against  the  mighty?  Ulti 
mate  victory  is  secure,  as  it  is  promised  by  Him  who  cannot  lie,  and  in 
whose  hands  are  the  hearts  of  all  men.  What  Christian  will  not  esteem 
it  a  privilege  to  become  instrumental,  though  in  a  humble  degree,  in 
accomplishing  the  glorious  and  beneficent  purposes  of  Jehovah,  by  ex 
tending  the  influence  of  the  Gospel? 

It  appears  from  what  has  been  stated  in  this  address,  and  would  more 
fully  appear  from  a  sketch  of  missionary  exertions  made  during  the  last 
century,  and  especially  during  the  last  twenty  years,  that  a  great  and 
effectual  door  for  the  promulgation  of  the  Gospel  among  the  heathen  is 
now  opened  to  all  Christian  nations:  but  to  no  nation  is  it  more  inviting, 
than  to  the  people  of  New  England.  The  truth  of  this  declaration  will 
be  easily  manifest  from  the  following  considerations: 

First:  No  nation  ever  experienced  the  blessings  of  the  Christian  re 
ligion  more  evidently,  and  uniformly,  than  the  inhabitants  of  New 
England,  from  its  first  colonization  till  the  present  time,  through  nearly 
two  centuries.  Of  all  our  social  and  civil  enjoyments,  scarcely  one  is 
worthy  to  be  mentioned,  which  is  not  derived  directly,  or  indirectly, 
from  this  holy  religion;  and  all  the  enjoyments,  which  concern  us  as  im 
mortal  beings,  spring  directly  from  this  source.  If  we  were  deprived 
of  all  the  civilization  and  liberty,  all  the  present  consolations  and  future 
hopes,  which  we  receive  from  the  Gospel,  what  should  we  have  left? 
Where  is  the  Christian  who  would  not  mourn  day  and  night,  were  he 
told,  that  at  some  future  time,  this  favored  land  should  sink  into  the 
superstition,  corruption  and  impiety  of  Paganism;  that  the  Sabbath 
should  become  extinct,  our  churches  moulder  to  ruin,  no  voice  of  sup 
plication  ascend  to  Jehovah,  no  children  be  dedicated  in  baptism  to 
the  triune  God,  and  no  memorial  be  observed  of  the  Redeemer's 


1811.  ADDRESS   TO     THE     CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  29 

sufferings,  atonement,  death,  and  resurrection;  that  instead  of  the  ra 
tional  worship  of  Christian  assemblies,  future  generations  should  behold 
some  horrible  idol  receiving  the  adoration  of  deluded  millions?  Where 
is  the  person  of  common  humanity,  who  would  not  lift  up  the  voice  of 
lamentation,  at  the  certain  prospect  of  such  an  apostacy  from  the  truth, 
and  such  a  debasing  fall  into  the  cruelties  and  debaucheries,  the  sins 
and  miseries,  of  heathenism?  If  we  should  feel  so  intensely  at  the  pros 
pect  of  these  evils  befalling  our  own  country,  can  we  avoid  being 
touched  with  compassion  at  the  sight  of  many  populous  nations,  which 
have  been  subjected  for  ages,  and  are  still  subjected,  to  the  power  of  the 
most  degrading  idolatry?  Are  we  not  called  upon  in  a  peculiar  manner, 
to  exert  ourselves  in  dispelling  this  worse  than  Egyptian  darkness? 

Let  us  reflect  for  a  moment  on  the  tendency  of  missionary  exertions 
to  promote  religion  among  ourselves.  The  Rev.  Mr.  Grout,  in  his  ser 
mon  before  the  Hampshire  Missionary  Society,  observes,  that  "what 
seems  to  be  peculiarly  worthy  of  attention  is,  the  unusual  effusion  of 
God's  Spirit  in  and  near  the  places  where  the  missionary  spirit  has  pre 
vailed."  "About  nine  years  have  elapsed,"  he  adds,  "since  the  estab 
lishment  of  this  Society.  In  what  other  period  of  that  length,  have  we 
witnessed  in  this  country  so  many  instances  of  the  refreshings  of  Divine 
grace?"  The  preacher  then  pertinently  inquires,  "Do  not  these  things, 
like  the  pillar  of  the  cloud  and  of  fire  in  the  camp  of  Israel,  betoken 
the  Divine  presence  to  have  attended  the  course  of  missionary  labors?" 
We  press  this  question  upon  the  consciences  of  Christians,  and  ask  them 
to  decide,  from  their  own  observation  and  experience,  whether  this  is 
not  a  just  view  of  the  subject.  It  is  an  unchangeable  law  in  the  Divine 
government,  that  it  is  more  blessed  to  give  than  to  receive,  and  that  he 
that  watereth,  shall  be  also  watered  himself.  As  we  regard  the  salvation 
of  our  neighbors,  our  friends,  our  families,  let  us  send  the  Gospel  to  the 
heathen. 

Secondly:  If  all  the  circumstances  of  the  case  are  considered,  we  are 
more  able  to  take  an  active  part  in  evangelizing  the  heathen,  than  any 
other  people  on  the  globe.  With  the  exception  of  Great  Britain,  indeed, 
no  nation  but  our  own  has  the  inclination,  or  the  ability,  to  make  great 
exertions  in  the  prosecution  of  this  design.  Great  Britain  is  engaged  in 
a  conflict  for  her  existence,  with  a  power  which  threatens  to  subjugate 
the  civilized  world;  yet,  beside  all  the  expenses  of  this  unexampled  con 
flict;  beside  the  millions  paid  for  the  support  of  the  parish  poor,  and  the 
immense  aggregate  of  the  sums  given  in  occasional  chanty;  beside  the 
vast  annual  expenses  of  charity  schools,  hospitals,  and  many  other  be 
nevolent  institutions;  beside  the  support  of  the  regular  Clergy,  both  of 
the  Establishment  and  among  Dissenters;  beside  these  and  many  other 
expenses,  Great  Britain  spends  hundreds  of  thousands  of  dollars,  an 
nually,  in  distributing  the  Bible,  employing  Missionaries,  translating  the 
Scriptures,  and  other  extraordinary  methods  of  dispensing  the  Gospel  to 
mankind.  Our  public  burdens  are  light  compared  with  those  of  Eng 
land,  and  there  is  among  us  wealth  sufficient,  abundantly  sufficient,  to 
employ  all  the  instruments  which  will  be  offered  to  our  hands.  We  are 
accustomed  to  hear  many  encomiums  on  the  liberality  of  Christians  in 
England;  let  it  be  remembered,  that  these  very  encomiums  will  condemn 
us,  unless  we  go  and  do  likewise. 


30  ADDRESS     TO   THE    CHRISTIAN  PUBLIC.  1811. 

Let  it  not  be  supposed,  that  the  embarrassment  of  our  public  affairs, 
and  the  consequent  derangement  of  private  business,  and  loss  of  private 
property,  are  forgotten.  With  these  things  in  full  view,  it  may  still  be 
truly  said,  that  wealth  enough  can  be  spared  from  among  us  for  the 
vigorous  prosecution  of  this  transcendently  important  purpose. 

Nor  should  it  be  omitted,  that  there  is  no  need  of  withholding  a  sin 
gle  dollar  from  the  numerous  Missionary  and  Bible  Societies,  and  other 
charitable  institutions,  which  are  already  in  operation  in  our  country. 
Our  Missionary  Societies  have  been  for  a  number  of  years  incalculable 
blessings  to  the  new  settlements  and  destitute  places  of  the  United 
States;  and  though  our  Bible  Societies  have  been  but  lately  formed,  their 
prospects  of  usefulness  are  most  encouraging.  May  the  means  of  all 
these  benevolent  institutions  increase  continually;  and  may  the  same 
beneficence  which  patronizes  them,  be  extended  to  satisfy  the  pressing 
calls  of  Foreign  Missions. 

The  public  will  perceive,  that  a  considerable  sum  of  money  is  neces 
sary  before  a  mission  to  Asia  can  be  commenced  with  any  prospect  of 
success;  and  that  money  is  the  only  thing  which  is  still  wanting.  Need 
another  word  be  said  to  ensure  liberal  and  extensive  donations? 

JEDIDIAH  MORSE, 
SAMUEL  WORCESTER, 
JEREMIAH  EVARTS, 

November,  1811.  Coimnittee  appointed  by  the  Board. 


MINUTES 


THIRD    ANNUAL    MEETING 


THE  annual  meeting  of  the  American  Board  of  Commissioners  for 
Foreign  Missions,  was  held  at  the  house  of  Mr.  Henry  Hudson,  in  Hart 
ford,  on  Wednesday  and  Thursday  the  16th  and  17th  days  of  September 
1812:— Present, 

Gen.  JEDIDIAH  HUNTINGTON, 

Hon.  JOHN  TREADWELL,  Esq.  LL.  D. 

Rev.  JOSEPH  LYMAN,  D.  D. 

Rev.  TIMOTHY  DWIGHT,  D.  D.  LL.  D. 

Rev.  SAMUEL  SPRING,  D.  D. 

Hon.  JOHN  HOOKER,  Esq. 

Rev.  JEDIDIAH  MORSE,  D.  D. 

Rev.  CALVIN  CHAPIN. 

Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  D.  D. 

The  meeting  was  opened  with  prayer  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Dwight. 

During  the  session  the  following  gentlemen  were  unanimously  elected 
members  of  the  Board,  viz.  the  Hon.  JOHN  LANGDON,  LL.  D.  Esq.,  and 
the  Rev.  SETH  PAYSON,  D.  D.  of  New  Hampshire,  the  Rev.  HENRY 
DAVIS,.  D.  D.  of  Vermont;  JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq.  of  Massachusetts; 
His  Excellency,  WILLIAM  JONES,  Esq.  of  Rhode  Island;  the  Hon.  JOHN 
JAY,  Esq.  LL.  D.,  the  Rev.  SAMUEL  MILLER,  D.  D.,  the  Hon.  EGBERT 
BENSON,  Esq.  LL.  D.,  and  the  Rev.  ELIPHALET  NOTT,  D.  D.,  of  New 
York;  the  Hon.  ELIAS  BOUDINOT,  Esq.  LL.  D.,  and  the  Rev.  JAMES 
RICHARDS,  of  New  Jersey;  and  the  Rev.  ASHBEL  GREEN,  D.  D.,  and 
ROBERT  RALSTON,  Esq.,  of  Pennsylvania. 

The  following  gentlemen  were  elected  officers  of  the  Board,  viz. 

The  Hon.  JOHN  TREADWELL,  Esq.  LL.  D.  President. 
Rev.  SAMUEL  SPRING,  D.  D.  Vice  President. 
WILLIAM  BARTLET,  Esq.  ") 

Rev.  SAMUEL  SPRING,  D.D.  I  „      ,    ..  ,  ^ 

T>       ci  -m  -r\  TA    /'Prudential  (Committee. 

Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  D.  D.  f 

JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq.  J 

Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  D.  D.  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Rev.  CALVIN  CHAPIN,  Recording  Secretary. 

JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq.  Treasurer. 

SAMUEL  H.  WALLEY,  Esq.  Auditor. 


32  MINUTES  OF  THE  BOARD.  1812. 

The  Treasurer's  accounts  were  exhibited.  Mr.  Goodale,  the  late  Au 
ditor,  having  removed  to  a  distant  part  of  the  country,  these  accounts 
could  not  be  audited  before  the  meeting  of  the  Board;  but  were  referred 
to  the  present  Auditor. 

The  Rev.  Dr.  Morse,  the  Rev.  Dr.  Worcester,  and  Mr.  Evarts,  were 
appointed  a  committee  to  prepare  and  publish  an  address  to  the  public 
on  the  behalf  the  Board. 

Voted,  That  the  Prudential  Committee  pay  an  immediate  and  particu 
lar  attention  to  the  circulation  of  the  Holy  Scriptures  in  the  various  lan 
guages  of  the  unevangelized  nations;  and  that,  as  soon  as  expedient, 
they  expend  upon  this  object  as  much  at  least  of  the  funds  of  the  Board 
as  the  Act  of  Incorporation  requires. 

The  report  of  the  Prudential  Committee  was  read  and  accepted. 

The  instructions  of  the  Prudential  Committee  to  the  Missionaries, 
who  lately  sailed  for  India  under  the  direction  of  the  Board,  were  read 
and  approved. 

Voted,  That  the  Prudential  Committee  annually  transmit  a  copy  of  the 
doings  of  this  Board,  to  the  General  Association  of  New  Hampshire,  the 
General  Convention  of  Congregational  and  Presbyterian  ministers  in 
Vermont,  the  General  Association  of  Massachusetts  Proper,  the  General 
Association  of  Connecticut,  and  the  General  Assembly  of  the  Presbyte 
rian  Church  in  the  United  States. 

Voted,  That  the  Treasurer  be  requested  to  return  the  thanks  of  this 
Board,  as  far  as  practicable,  to  all  those  who  have  heretofore  contributed 
for  the  purposes  of  the  institution. 

Voted,  That  the  Hon.  John  Hooker,  Esq.  and  the  Rev.  Dr.  Lyman  be 
a  committee  to  procure  the  printing,  in  the  Iroquois  language,  of  such 
Christian  writings  as,  in  their  judgment,  may  be  expedient  for  the  use  of 
the  Iroquois  Indians;  and  that  they  distribute  them  according  to  their 
discretion. 

Voted,  That  the  Treasurer  give  bond  to  the  Board  for  the  faithful 
discharge  of  the  duties  of  his  office,  in  the  sum  of  twenty  thousand  dol 
lars,  with  sufficient  sureties,  to  be  approved  by  a  major  part  of  the 
Prudential  Committee. 

Voted,  That  this  Board  will  receive  Mr.  Eleazer  Williams  under  their 
patronage,  and  support  him  in  completing  his  education  for  the  ministry: 
provided,  he  shall  consent  to  submit  himself  to  the  direction  of  the  Board. 

Voted,  That  the  President  of  this  Board,  the  Rev.  Dr.  Lyman,  and 
the  Rev.  Mr.  Chapin,  be  a  committee  to  consider,  and  report  upon,  that 
part  of  the  report  of  the  Prudential  Committee,  which  regards  an  inter 
course  between  this  Board  and  the  Auxiliary  Foreign  Mission  Societies. 

The  Editor  of  the  Panoplist,  made  a  written  proposition  to  the  Board 
to  the  following  effect : — That  all  the  profits  of  that  publication,  after  a 
reasonable  allowance  for  his  services  as  Editor  shall  have  been  deducted, 
be  devoted  to  the  promotion  of  the  missionary  cause  under  the  direction 
of  this  Board;  and  that  the  amount  of  such  reasonable  allowance  be 
fixed,  at  the  close  of  each  volume,  by  a  committee  mutually  agreed  upon 
between  himself  and  the  Board.  This  arrangement  to  commence  with 
the  next  volume,*  should  the  work  be  continued  as  usual. 

*  A  similar  arrangement  exists  with  respect  to  the  current  volume;  though  the  Board,  not 
being  in  session  when  it  was  formed,  could  not  be  made  a  party  to  it. 


1812.  REPORT.  33 

To  prevent  misconception,  it  was  expressly  stated,  that  the  Editor  did 
not  wish  to  have  such  an  arrangement  considered  as  an  approbation  of 
the  Panoplist  on  the  part  of  the  Board,  or  as  connecting  the  Board  in  any 
manner  with  that  work;  but  simply  as  a  method  mutually  agreed  upon  to 
find  what  are  the  real  profits  of  the  publication. 

It  was  also  stated,  that  it  shall  always  be  in  the  power  of  the  Commit 
tee  to  designate  the  specific  objects  to  which  said  profits  shall  be  applied, 
and  which  shall  always  be  such  as  said  Committee  shall  judge  to  be 
peculiarly  important  to  the  missionary  cause. 

The  foregoing  proposition  was  accepted,  and  the  following  gentlemen 
were  mutually  agreed  upon  as  the  Committee,  viz.  the  Rev.  Joshua  Hunt- 
ington  of  Boston,  the  Rev.  John  Codman  of  Dorchester,  Dr.  Reuben  D. 
Mussey  of  Salem,  Henry  Gray,  Esq.  of  Boston,  and  the  Rev.  Moses 
Stuart,  Professor  in  the  Theological  Seminary  at  Andover. 

Voted,  That  the  Treasurer  loan  or  invest  the  money  in  the  Treasury, 
or  such  part  of  it  as  may  be  judged  expedient,  with  the  concurrence  and 
under  the  direction  of  the  Prudential  Committee. 

Voted,  That  the  next  annual  meeting  of  the  Board  be  held  at  Concert 
Hall  in  Boston,  on  the  third  Wednesday  of  September.  1813,  at  10 
o'clock,  A.  M. 

The  Rev.  President  Dwight  was  appointed  to  preach  on  the  occasion; 
and  the  Rev.  Mr.  Chapin  was  appointed  his  substitute. 

Voted,  That  the  President  and  the  Recording  Secretary  present  the 
thanks  of  this  Board  to  Mr.  Henry  Hudson  for  the  proof  of  his  regard 
to  the  cause  of  Foreign  Missions,  manifested  by  the  very  hospitable  and 
generous  manner  in  which  he  has  provided  for  the  members  during  the 
present  session. 

The  session  was  closed  with  prayer  by  the  Vice  President. 

REPORT. 

WITH  high  sensibility,  and  with  lively  gratitude  to  the  Redeemer~and 
King  of  Zion,  the  Prudential  Committee  of  the  American  Board  of  Com 
missioners  for  Foreign  Missions  meet  their  Brethren  on  the  present 
occasion,  and  make  their  annual  Report. 

The  purposes  of  the  Board,  distinctly  expressed  at  the  last  meeting,  it 
has  been  the  desire  and  endeavor  of  the  Committee  to  carry  into  effect 
as  early,  and  to  as  great  an  extent,  as  practicable.  As  soon  as  conve 
nient,  an  address  to  the  public  on  the  subject  of  missions  to  the  heathen 
was  prepared  and  printed,  and  care  was  taken  to  give  to  it  an  extensive 
and  efficacious  circulation.  In  the  separate  sheet,  and  in  the  Panoplist 
and  Missionary  Magazine,  it  has  found  access  to  the  different  parts  of 
our  country;  and  there  is  reason  to  believe  that  its  effect,  in  exciting  at 
tention  to  its  great  object,  and  in  awakening  and  spreading  the  mis 
sionary  spirit,  has  been  very  considerable.  The  Committee,  however, 
could  not  entirely  rely  on  the  address,  or  any  other  means  which  had 
been  put  in  operation,  for  the  immediate  and  permanent  supply  of  funds 
requisite  to  answer  their  wishes  and  those  of  the  Board.  Four  mission 
aries  were  waiting,  and  had  long  been  waiting,  with  a  degree  of  impa 
tience,  to  be  sent  out  with  the  everlasting  gospel  to  the  perishing  millions 
of  the  East;  and  the  Committee  were  earnestly  desirous  to  relieve  their 


34  REPORT.  1812. 

impatience,  and  to  embrace  the  earliest  opportunity  for  conveying  them 
to  the  destined  field  of  their  labors.  But  for  this  purpose  thousands  of 
dollars  were  wanting. 

When  contemplating  possible  ways  and  means,  no  plan  presented  itself 
to  the  Committee  as  more  eligible,  than  to  institute  in  the  principal  towns 
in  New  England  and  in  other  states,  as  far  as  practicable,  societies  aux 
iliary  to  this  Board,  and  whose  special  business  should  be  to  aid  in  pro 
curing  funds.  This  plan,  it  was  hoped,  would  bring  immediate  help  in 
the  existing  exigency,  combine  extensively  the  influence  of  the  friends  of 
missions,  give  increase  and  efficiency  to  the  missionary  spirit,  and  open 
durable  sources  of  supply  to  the  treasury.  The  plan  was  adopted  early 
in  the  winter.  Mr.  John  Frost,  a  licentiate  preacher,  in  whom  the  Com 
mittee  had  great  confidence,  was  appointed  an  agent,  and  invested  with 
a  commission  to  assist  in  carrying  it  into  execution;  and  the  success  has 
exceeded  the  most  sanguine  expectations.  About  twenty  societies  have 
been  formed,  more  than  four  thousand  dollars  have  been  remitted  from 
them  to  the  treasury;  and  the  annual'  subscriptions  in  them,  though  they 
cannot  be  accurately  estimated  at  present,  amount  to  a  very  considerable 
sum.  These  societies  cannot  but  be  regarded  as  vastly  important  to  the 
general  concern,  and  as  claiming  very  particular  attention;  and  the  Com 
mittee  would  respectfully  submit,  whether  some  measures  should  not  be 
adopted  to  extend,  to  animate,  and  to  strengthen  them;  and  to  establish 
between  them  and  this  Board  a  regular  and  permanent  intercourse. 

Though  the  Committee  were  very  desirous  to  be  in  a  state  of  prepara 
tion  to  send  out  the  waiting  missionaries  by  the  first  conveyance;  yet, 
such  were  the  commercial  embarrassments,  but  little  expectation  was 
entertained  that  a  conveyance  would  soon  occur.  But  He,  who  has  the 
times  and  the  seasons  in  his  hands,  and  whose,  especially,  is  the  mis 
sionary  cause,  knew  the  day  and  the  hour.  In  the  latter  part  of  Janu 
ary,  Messrs.  Newell  and  Hall,  the  two  missionary  brethren,  who  had 
resided  for  some  time  at  Philadelphia  on  account  of  the  medical  advan 
tages  there  enjoyed,  returned  in  haste  with  the  intelligence,  that  a  ship 
called  the  Harmony  was  shortly  to  sail  from  that  port  for  Calcutta,  and 
would  afford  accommodations  for  the  missionaries.  This  return  was  by 
the  particular  advice  of  Robert  Ralston,  Esq.,  a  name  well  known,  and 
greatly  endeared  to  the  friends  of  missions,  in  Europe  and  India,  as  well 
as  in  this  country;  and  from  him  they  brought  a  letter,  presenting  the 
opportunity  in  a  very  favorable  light,  and  kindly  offering  assurances  of  his 
attention  and  aid.  The  Committee  immediately  met;  and  the^moment 
was  an  important  one.  The  Harmony  was  to  sail  in  about  a  fortnight; 
if  that  opportunity  were  not  embraced  it  could  not  be  foreseen  when 
another  would  occur;  but  the  funds  then  at  the  disposal  of  the  Commit 
tee  did  not  exceed  twelve  hundred  dollars.  After  serious  deliberation, 
however,  the  Committee  were  impressed  with  the  persuasion  that  divine 
Providence  called  for  an  immediate  and  great  effort;  and  they  resolved 
to  send  out  the  four  missionaries  by  the  Harmony,  and  took  their  meas 
ures  accordingly. 

It  was  on  Monday  the  27th  of  January  that  this  resolution  was  taken. 
The  ordination  of  the  missionaries  was  appointed  to  be  on  the  Thursday 
of  the  next  week;  the  latest  day,  which  would  leave  time  for  them  to  get 
on  to  Philadelphia  in  season.  Notice  was  immediately  given  to  the 


1812.  REPORT.  35 

friends  of  the  mission  in  the  vicinity,  and  means  were  put  in  operation 
with  all  possible  activity,  and  to  as  great  an  extent  as  the  limited  time 
would  allow,  for  raising  the  requisite  funds. 

In  the  mean  time,  Mr.  Luther  Rice,  a  licentiate  preacher  from  the 
Theological  Institution  at  Andover,  whose  heart  had  long  been  engaged 
in  the  missionary  cause,  but  who  had  been  restrained  from  offering  him 
self  to  the  Board  by  particular  circumstances,  presented  himself  to  the 
Committee  with  good  recommendations,  and  with  an  earnest  desire  to 
join  the  mission.  The  case  was  a  very  trying  one.  The  Committee 
were  not  invested  with  full  powers  to  admit  missionaries,  and  they  still 
felt  a  very  heavy  embarrassment  from  the  want  of  funds.  In  view  of  all 
the  circumstances,  however,  they  did  not  dare  to  reject  Mr.  Rice;  and 
they  came  to  the  conclusion  to  assume  the  responsibility,  and  admit  him 
as  a  missionary,  to  be  ordained  with  the  four  other  brethren,  and  sent  out 
with  them.  This  responsibility  still  rests  upon  the  Committee.  But  with 
the  pleasing  consciousness  that  they  acted  in  the  case  under  an  impres 
sive  sense  of  duty,  and  with  a  sacred  view  to  advance  the  great  design  of 
this  Board,  they  cheerfully  submit  themselves  to  the  inquiry  and  to  the 
judgment  of  their  brethren.  .:  , 

While  the  preparations  were  making,  it  came  to  the  knowledge  of  the 
Committee,  that  the  brigantine  Caravan,  of  Salem,  was  to  sail  for  Cal 
cutta  in  a  few  days,  and  could  carry  out  three  or  four  passengers;  and, 
after  attention  to  the  subject,  it  was  deemed  advisable,  that  two  of  the 
missionaries,  with  their  wives,  should  take  passage  in  that  vessel.  This 
lessened  the  general  risk,  and  was  attended  with  several  advantages. 

According  to  appointment,  on  the  sixth  of  February,  the  missionaries 
were  ordained,  at  the  Tabernacle  in  Salem.  A  season  of  more  impres 
sive  solemnity  has  scarcely  been  witnessed  in  our  country.  The  sight  of 
five  young  men,  of  highly  respectable  talents  and  attainments,  and  who 
might  reasonably  have  promised  themselves  very  eligible  situations  in  our 
churches,  forsaking  parents,  and  friends,  and  country,  and  every  alluring 
earthly  prospect,  and  devoting  themselves  to  the  privations,  hardships, 
and  perils  of  a  mission  for  life,  to  a  people  sitting  in  darkness  and  in  the 
region  and  shadow  of  death,  in  a  far  distant  and  unpropitious  clime,  could 
not  fail  deeply  to  affect  every  heart,  not  utterly  destitute  of  feeling.  Nor 
less  affecting  were  the  views,  which  the  whole  scene  was  calculated  to 
impress,  of  the  deplorable  condition  of  the  Pagan  world,  of  the  riches  of 
divine  grace  displayed  in  the  gospel,  and  of  the  obligations  on  all,  on 
whom  this  grace  is  conferred,  to  use  their  utmost  endeavors  in  making 
the  gospel  universally  known.  God  was  manifestly  present:  a  crowded 
and  attentive  assembly  testified,  with  many  tears,  the  deep  interest  which 
they  felt  in  the  occasion;  and  not  a  few  remember  the  scene  with  fervent 
gratitude,  and  can  say,  it  was  good  to  be  there. 

After  the  public  solemnities,  arrangements  for  the  departure  of  the 
missionaries  were  made  with  all  possible  despatch;  and,  on  the  evening 
of  the  same  day,  brethren  Nott,  Hall,  and  Rice,  took  their  leave  in  haste, 
that  they  might  not  fail  of  arriving  at  Philadelphia,  in  season  for  taking 
their  passage  in  the  Harmony.  Those  who  remained  were  expected  to 
sail  early  in  the  next  week.  Circumstances  occurred,  however,  by  which 
both  the  vessels  were  detained  for  several  days;  and  it  was  not  until  the 
19th  of  February  that  brethren  Judson  and  Newell  with  their  wives  sailed 


36  REPORT.  1812. 

in  the  Caravan  from  Salem;  and  about  the  same  time  brethren  Nott,  Hall, 
and  Rice,  with  the  wife  of  Mr.  Nott,  and  several  missionaries  from  Eng 
land,  left  the  Delaware  in  the  Harmony. 

The  delay  of  the  vessels  was  highly  auspicious:  and  the  Committee 
would  do  violence  to  their  feelings,  and  be  greatly  wanting  in  attention 
to  a  subject  for  high  thankfulness  to  God,  should  they  refrain  from  ex 
pressing  the  deep  impression  which  they  have  felt  of  his  particular 
providence  in  the  whole  business  of  preparing  and  sending  out  the  mis 
sion.  When  the  resolution  was  taken  to  embrace  the  opportunity  by  the 
Harmony,  the  utmost  which  the  Committee  expected  to  be  able  to  do 
was,  to  fit  out  the  four  missionaries  then  engaged  without  their  wives; 
or,  if  their  wives  should  go,  to  advance  to  them  only  a  half  year's,  instead 
of  a  whole  year's,  salary;  or  else  to  retain  only  two  of  them  in  the  em 
ployment  of  this  Board,  and  resign  the  other  two  to  the  London  Mission 
ary  Society.  Probably,  indeed,  the  resolution  could  not  have  been  taken 
at  all,  but  for  the  commission  which  had  been  obtained  from  that  Society. 
For  the  Committee  cast  themselves  upon  divine  Providence  in  the  case, 
with  the  alternative  distinctly  in  view,  that  should  they  fail  of  seasonably 
obtaining  the  funds  to  enable  them  to  send  out  the  missionaries  in  the 
employment  of  this  Board,  they  could,  in  the  last  resort,  let  them  go  un 
der  the  London  commission.  Having  this  alternative,  they  ventured 
upon  a  measure,  which  otherwise,  (so  doubtful  was  the  prospect  of  ob 
taining  the  pecuniary  means,)  they  probably  would  have  judged  pre 
sumptuous.  And  they  acted  upon  the  same  principle,  when  they  added 
Mr.  Rice  to  the  mission.  Nor  was  it  until  after  the  solemnities  of  the 
ordination,  that  they  felt  themselves  warranted  decisively  to  resolve  on 
sending  all  the  missionaries  in  the  service,  and  at  the  expense,  of  this 
Board;  and  even  then,  their  expectations  extended  no  further  than  to  an 
advance  for  each  missionary  of  a  half  year's  salary.  But  the  Lord  made 
it  to  be  remembered  that  the  silver  and  the  gold  are  his.  The  hearts 
of  the  people  were  wonderfully  opened;  money  flowed  in  from  all  quar 
ters;  and  by  the  time  that  the  Caravan  sailed,  the  Committee  were  able  to 
meet  all  the  expenses  of  fitting  out  the  missionaries,  and  to  advance  for 
each  of  them  a  whole  year's  salary.  In  addition  to  this,  collections  were 
made  at  Philadelphia,  during  the  same  interval  of  delay,  and  delivered  to 
the  brethren  who  sailed  from  that  port,  to  such  an  amount,  as  to  make 
the  whole  which  was  paid  to  the  missionaries  in  advance,  equal  to  their 
stipulated  salary  for  a  year  and  a  quarter  nearly.  This  deserves  very 
grateful  notice;  for  had  our  brethren  been  sent  out,  as  it  was  expected 
they  must  be,  with  provision  only  for  six  months,  such  is  the  obstructed 
state  of  commercial  intercourse,  and  the  uncertainty  of  making  remit 
tances  to  India,  that  not  only  the  Committee  and  this  whole  Board,  but 
the  friends  of  the  mission  generally,  must  have  been  distressed  with  ap 
prehensions  of  the  sufferings  to  which,  for  want  of  the  means  of  support, 
they  might  have  been  exposed.  GOD  WILL  PROVIDE;  God  did  provide. 
Within  about  three  weeks,  reckoning  from  the  commencement  of  the 
special  arrangements,  more  than  six  thousand  dollars  were  collected  for 
the  mission.  Several  societies,  and  many  individuals,  shewed  a  liberality, 
which  entitles  them  to  the  very  grateful  acknowledgments  of  this  Board, 
and  of  all  the  friends  of  the  Redeemer's  cause;  and  which,  it  is  devoutly 
to  be  hoped,  will  be  a  precious  memorial  of  them,  in  his  kingdom  for- 


1812.  REPORT.  37 

ever.  While  contemplating  the  providence  of  God  in  these  transactions 
at  large,  it  should  not  be  overlooked  that,  had  not  our  brethren  been  sent 
out  at  the  very  time  they  were,  as  no  opportunities  have  since  occurred, 
and  as  none  are  now  likely  soon  to  occur,  the  mission  must  have  been 
delayed  for  a  long  time,  and  perhaps  even  till  the  close  of  the  present 
deplorable  war. 

Since  their  departure,  no  intelligence  has  been  received  from  the  mis 
sionaries.  As  they  were  commended  to  the  grace  of  God,  with  many 
prayers  and  tears,  they  will  not  cease  to  be  so  commended;  and  to  Him, 
under  whose  signal  auspices  they  went  out,  and  whose  own  glory  is  the 
ultimate  object  of  all  sincere  attempts  to  spread  the  gospel  and  to  save 
the  heathen,  the  whole  disposal  of  the  mission  may  be  safely  referred. 
And  it  becomes  all  who  feel  an  interest  in  it,  to  hold  themselves  prepared 
devoutly  to  bless  his  name,  whether  he  crown  it  with  success  answerable 
to  their  hopes,  or  in  his  inscrutable  wisdom  disappoint  their  expectations, 
and  make  it  a  subject  of  severe  trial  to  their  faith. 

The  instructions  given  to  the  missionaries  were  necessarily  drawn  up 
in  great  haste:  but  they  will  be  submitted,  with  leave,  to  the  considera 
tion  and  for  the  revision  of  the  Board. 

Under  the  direction  of  the  Committee,  Messrs.  Richards  and  Warren, 
who  were  accepted  by  the  Board  at  the  last  annual  meeting,  have  been 
favored  with  advantages  of  medical  instruction  in  the  intervals  allowed 
by  the  Theological  Institution  of  which  they  are  members;  both  of  them 
at  Dartmouth  College  the  last  autumn,  and  one  of  them  since,  with  Dr. 
Miller  of  Franklin,  and  the  other  with  Dr.  Mussey  of  Salem.  And  the 
particular  thanks  of  this  Board  are  due  to  the  gentlemen  Professors  of 
the  Medical  Institution  at  Dartmouth,  and  the  two  physicians  who  afford 
ed  their  private  instructions,  for  their  ready  liberality.  The  two  brethren 
hold  themselves  still  at  the  direction  of  this  Board,  with  a  readiness  of 
mind  to  enter  into  active  service,  as  soon  as  Providence  shall  open  the 
door  for  the  purppse. 

Mr.  Eleazer  Williams,  the  Indian  youth  proposed  for  an  Indian  mis 
sion,  and  who  is  in  a  course  of  education  for  this  purpose,  partly  at  the 
expense  of  this  Board,  made  a  visit,  in  the  course  of  the  last  winter,  to 
his  tribe,  a  journal  of  which  has  been  seen  by  the  Committee.  It  is  an 
excellent  journal;  affords  great  evidence  of  the  piety  and  good  sense  of 
Mr.  Williams;  and  details  some  facts  highly  favorable  to  his  reception 
among  his  red  brethren,  when  the  time  shall  come  for  him  to  be  sent  to 
them.  When  that  time  will  come,  is  known  only  to  Him  who  has  all 
events  under  his  sovereign  direction.  At  present,  the  prospect  regarding 
the  contemplated  mission  to  the  Caghnawaga  Indians,  and  that  regarding 
the  missions  to  the  East,  are  darkened  by  war;  but  this  darkness  may  be 
dissipated,  and  brighter  scenes  open  than  men  can  foresee. 

For  reasons,  which  will  be  obvious  to  this  Board,  it  was  judged  advi 
sable  to  apply  to  the  Legislature  of  Massachusetts  for  an  act  enduing  the 
Board  with  corporate  powers  and  privileges.  An  application  was  ac 
cordingly  made,  which  ultimately  succeeded.  The  act  will  be  submitted 
to  the  consideration  of  the  Board. 

On  a  review,  the  Committee  are  persuaded  that  their  brethren,  as  well 
as  themselves,  will  recognize  many  precious  reasons  of  thankfulness  to 
God;  many  impressive  tokens  of  his  gracious  regard  to  our  great  design; 


38  INSTRUCTIONS    TO    MISSIONARIES.  1812. 

many  signal  encouragements  to  prosecute  the  design  with  renewed  and 
increased  devotedness  and  activity.  The  war  may  embarrass  our  opera 
tions,  but  should  not  restrain  our  efforts.  If  the  sure  word  of  prophecy 
warns  us  of  perils  and  calamities,  of  distress  of  nations  with  perplexity; 
it  gives  us  assurance  also,  that  in  these  troublous  times,  the  gospel  shall 
be  extensively  propagated,  and  that  in  overturning,  and  overturning,  and 
overturning,  the  Lord  is  making  way  for  the  establishment  in  all  the 
earth  of  that  kingdom  which  cannot  be  shaken.  If  the  Day  of  ven 
geance  is  in  his  heart,  the  year  of  his  redeemed  is  come.  Great  Britain, 
while  sustaining  a  conflict  unexampled  in  the  history  of  the  world,  is  dis 
playing  a  liberality,  a  zeal,  and  a  spirit  of  enterprise,  for  imparting  the 
word  of  life  and  the  blessings  of  salvation  to  all  people,  to  enemies  as 
well  as  to  friends,  not  less  strikingly  unexampled.  And  in  this  glorious 
work,  so  far  from  being  checked  by  any  pressure  of  burdens  or  difficul 
ties,  she  continues  without  remission,  and  abounds  more  and  more.  By 
her  admirable  example,  America  should  be  provoked  to  emulation.  Under 
no  circumstances  should  we  faint  or  be  discouraged;  but,  trusting  in  God, 
in  whose  cause  we  are  engaged,  if  difficulties  present  themselves,  our 
zeal  should  rise,  and  our  efforts  be  augmented.  The  word  is  sure;  He, 
who  reigns  on  the  holy  hill  of  Zion,  shall  have  the  heathen  for  his  inher 
itance,  and  the  uttermost  parts  of  the  earth  for  his  possession.  We 
hail  him  LORD  OF  LORDS,  AND  KING  OF  KINGS;  we  rejoice  in  the  open 
ing  prospects  of  his  kingdom;  and  to  be  instrumental  in  extending  his 
dominion,  and  the  blessings  of  his  salvation,  will  be  our  highest  glory. 


INSTRUCTIONS 

GIVEN  BY  THE  PRUDENTIAL  COMMITTEE  OF  THE  AMERICAN  BOARD  OF 
COMMISSIONERS  FOR  FOREIGN  MISSIONS,  TO  THE  MISSIONARIES  TO 
THE  EAST,  FEBRUARY  7,  1812. 

"  To  the  Rev.  Adoniram  Judson,  Samuel  Nott,  Samuel  Newell,  Gordon 
Hall,  and  Luther  Rice,  Missionaries  to  the  East,  under  the  American 
Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions. 

"VERY  DEAR  BRETHREN, — As  in  divine  Providence,  we  are  specially 
charged  with  the  weighty  care  of  the  Mission  in  which  you  are  engaged, 
it  devolves  on  us,  as  a  sacred  duty,  to  give  some  instructions  for  your 
observance.  These  instructions,  owing  to  a  pressure  of  circumstances, 
and  the  want  of  certainty  in  regard  to  some  important  points  relating  to 
the  mission,  will,  doubtless,  be  more  imperfect  than  otherwise  they  might 
have  been;  and  it  will  rest  with  us,  or  with  our  successors  in  this  care, 
hereafter  to  make  them  more  complete. 

"1.  Your  first  concern,  dear  Brethren,  must  be  personal.  As  you 
have  given  yourselves  to  the  service  of  God  in  the  gospel  of  His  Son 
among  the  Gentiles,  it  will  be  of  the  utmost  importance,  not  only  that 
you  be  sincere  and  without  offence,  but  also  that  your  hearts  be  kept 
constantly  burning  with  love  to  God,  to  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  to 
the  souls  of  men.  In  order  to  this,  you  will  be  much  in  the  exercises  of 
devotion;  in  reading,  meditation,  and  prayer;  you  will  be  religiously  ob- 


1812.  INSTRUCTIONS    TO    MISSIONARIES.  39 

servant  of  all  the  precepts,  ordinances,  and  instructions  of  the  gospel; 
and  you  will  'exercise  yourselves  to  have  always  consciences  void  of  of 
fence,  both  towards  God,  and  towards  men.  Keep  under  your  bodies, 
and  bring  them  into  subjection.  Keep  your  hearts  with  all  diligence. 
Live  by  faith  in  Christ  Jesus.  Walk  before  God,  and  be  perfect.' 

"2.  'Have  fervent  charity  among  yourselves.  Let  there  be  no  strife 
among  you,  which  of  you  shall  be  accounted  the  greatest:  but  he  that  is 
greatest  among  you,  let  him  be  as  the  younger;  and  he  that  is  chief,  as 
he  that  doth  serve.  Ye  have  one  Master,  even  Christ;  and  all  ye  are 
brethren.  Be  watchful  over  one  another,  in  the  spirit  of  meekness;  and 
provoke  one  another  only  to  love  and  good  works.' 

"3.  The  Christian  Missionaries  of  every  Protestant  denomination, 
sent  from  Europe  to  the  East,  you  will  regard  as  your  brethren;  the  ser 
vants  of  the  same  Master,  and  engaged  in  the  same  work  with  your 
selves.  With  them  your  only  competition  will  be,  who  shall  display  most 
of  the  spirit,  and  do  most  for  the  honor,  of  Christ;  with  them  you  will  be 
ready  to  cultivate  the  best  understanding,  and  to  reciprocate  every  Chris 
tian  and  friendly  office;  and  with  them  you  will  cheerfully  co-operate,  as 
far  as  consistently  you  can,  in  any  measure  for  the  advancement  of  the 
common  cause.  However  it  may  be  with  others,  let  it  never,  dear  Breth 
ren,  be  your  fault,  if  among  the  converts  to  Christianity  in  the  East, 
every  one  shall  say,  'I  am  of  Paul,  and  I  of  Apollos,  and  I  of  Cephas, 
and  I  of  Christ;'  but  remember,  that  there  'is  one  body,  and  one  Spirit, 
even  as  believers  are  all  called  in  one  hope  of  their  calling:  one  Lord, 
one  faith,  one  baptism,  one  God  and  Father  of  all,  who  is  above  all,  and 
through  all,  and  in  them  all.' 

"4.  Wherever  your  lot  may  be  cast,  you  will  withhold  yourselves  most 
scrupulously  from  all  interference  with  the  powers  that  be;  and  from  all 
intermeddling  with  political  concerns.  You  will  sacredly  remember  who 
has  said,  'Render  unto  Caesar  the  things  that  are  Cesar's,  and  unto  God 
the  things  that  are  God's.  Render  unto  all,  therefore,  their  dues:  tri 
bute,  to  whom  tribute  is  due;  custom,  to  whom  custom;  fear  to  whom 
fear;  honor,  to  whom  honor.  Submit  yourselves  to  every  ordinance  of 
man,  for  the  Lord's  sake.' 

"5.  'As  much  as  in  you  lies  live  peaceably  with  all  men.'  You  go, 
dear  Brethren,  as  the  messengers  of  love,  of  peace,  of  salvation,  to  peo 
ple  whose  opinions  and  customs,  habits  and  manners,  are  widely  different 
from  those  to  which  you  have  been  used;  and  it  will  not  only  comport 
with  the  spirit  of  your  mission,  but  be  essential  to  its  success,  that,  as  far 
as  you  can,  you  conciliate  their  affection,  their  esteem,  and  their  respect. 
You  will,  therefore,  make  it  your  care  to  preserve  yourselves  from  all 
fatidiousness  of  feeling,  and  of  deportment:  to  avoid  every  occasion  of 
unnecessary  offence,  or  disgust  to  those  among  whom  you  may  sojourn; 
and  in  regard  to  all  matters  of  indifference,  or  in  which  conscience  is 
not  concerned,  to  make  yourselves  easy  and  agreeable  to  them.  In  this, 
as  well  as  in  most  other  things,  you  will  do  well  to  hold  in  view  the  ex 
ample  of  Paul,  the  first  and  most  distinguished  missionary  to  the  heathen; 
who,  'though  he  was  free  from  all,  yet  made  himself  servant  unto  all,  that 
he  might  gain  the  more;  and  became  all  things  to  all  men,  that  by  all 
means  he  might  save  some.'  When  you  behold  the  superstitions  and 
abominations  of  the  heathen,  your  'spirits,'  indeed,  'will  be  stirred  in 


40  INSTRUCTIONS    TO    MISSIONARIES.  181*2. 

you/  and  you  will  be  very  jealous  for  your  God  and  Savior.  But  even 
then,  you  will  take  heed  that  your  zeal  be  according  to  knowledge,  and 
tempered  with  the  meekness  of  wisdom.  In  all  things,  it  will  behove 
you,  dear  Brethren,  'to  be  harmless  and  blameless,  the  children  of  God 
without  rebuke;'  to  show  to  the  Gentiles  the  excellent  character  of  the 
religion  of  the  gospel,  and  to  let  them  see  in  you  a  living  example  of 
'whatsoever  things  are  true,  of  whatsoever  things  are  honest,  of  whatso 
ever  things  are  just,  of  whatsoever  things  are  pure,  of  whatsoever  things 
are  lovely,  of  whatsoever  things  are  of  good  report.' 

"6.  From  the  best  views,  which  we  have  been  able  to  obtain,  our 
present  desire  is,  that  the  seat  of  this  mission  should  be  in  some  part  of 
the  empire  of  Birmah.  After  your  arrival  in  India,  however,  you  will 
make  it  an  object  to  avail  yourselves  of  information  relating  to  that  em 
pire,  and  also  relating  to  other  parts  of  the  East;  and  after  due  delibera 
tion,  you  will  be  at  your  discretion  as  to  the  place  where  to  make  your 
station.  It  will  also,  in  a  similar  manner,  rest  with  you  to  determine, 
whether  the  great  object  of  the  mission  will  probably  be  best  promoted, 
by  your  residing  together  in  one  place,  or  by  occupying  separate  stations. 
In  regard  to  those  very  important  points,  however,  it  is  expected  that  you 
will  act  with  unanimity;  certainly,  that  you  act  only  with  a  due  regard 
each  to  the  views  and  feelings  of  the  rest,  to  our  known  desire  and 
expectation,  and  to  the  essential  interests  of  the  Mission. 

"You  will  perceive,  dear  Brethren,  the  very  urgent  importance  of  ob 
serving  strict  economy,  in  regard  both  to  your  time  and  expenditures. 
You  will  therefore,  make  it  your  care  to  get  to  the  field,  or  fields,  of  your 
labors,  as  soon  and  with  as  little  expense  as  possible. 

"7.  For  yourselves  and  for  the  object  of  the  mission,  it  will  be  im 
portant  that  you  adopt,  as  early  as  possible,  some  plan  of  polity,  or  social 
order.  The  office  of  presiding  in  your  little  community  should,  for  very 
obvious  reasons,  we  think,  be  held  in  rotation.  You  will  have  a  treas 
urer,  and  a  secretary  or  clerk,  that  your  financial  concerns  may  be  con 
ducted,  and  the  records  of  your  proceedings  kept,  with  regularity  and 
correctness.  The  rules  and  regulations  which  you  adopt,  you  will  trans 
mit  to  us  for  our  consideration.  Of  the  journals  of  the  mission,  also,  to 
which  you  will  pay  very  particular  attention,  and  in  which  you  will  regu 
larly  note  whatever  may  be  interesting  to  you,  or  to  us,  you  will,  as  often 
as  convenient,  transmit  to  us  copies. 

"8.  No  time  should  be  lost  in  forming  yourselves  into  a  church,  ac- 
coiding  to  the  order  divinely  prescribed,  that  you  may  attend  in  due 
form  upon  the  worship  and  ordinances  of  Christ's  house.  This  will  be 
of  great  importance,  both  to  yourselves,  and  to  the  people  among  whom 
you  dwell.  The  ordinance  of  the  Lord's  supper  should  be  administered, 
we  think,  as  often  at  least,  as  once  in  every  month;  and  you  will  freely 
reciprocate  the  privilege  of  communicating  in  this  ordinance  with  other 
Christians  in  regular  church  standing. 

"In  all  places,  and  especially  among  people  superstitiously  observant 
of  their  own  sacred  times  and  seasons,  a  very  exemplary  observance  of 
the  Sabbath  is  of  the  very  first  importance  to  Christianity.  This,  dear 
brethren,  you  cannot  too  deeply  feel;  and  it  will  be  your  care  that  Pagans 
shall  not  have  occasion  to  say,  or  to  think,  that  Christians  have  no  rever 
ence  for  the  ordinances  of  their  God.  It  is  by  their  eyes,  not  less  than 


1812.  INSTRUCTIONS    TO    MISSIONARIES.  41 

by  their  ears,  that  you  are  to  gain  access  to  their  hearts.  In  regard,  also, 
to  the  time  of  beginning  the  Sabbath,  you  will  perceive  it  to  be  not  of 
little  consequence,  that  you  be  conscientiously  agreed. 

"9.  The  great  object  of  your  Mission  is  to  impart  to  those  who  sit 
in  darkness,  and  in  the  region  and  shadow  of  death,  the  saving  knowl 
edge  of  Christ.  In  order  to  this  it  will  be  a  matter  of  primary  attention 
to  make  yourselves  acquainted  with  the  language  of  the  people,  with 
whom  you  are  to  converse,  and  to  whom  you  are  to  preach.  You  will 
not,  however,  neglect  any  opportunity  or  means  of  doing  them  good, 
even  before  you  can  use  their  language;  but  you  will  give  yourselves 
wholly  to  your  work,  and  use  all  care  that  you  'run  not  in  vain,  neither 
labor  in  vain.'  The  deplorable  ignorance  of  the  poor  heathen  will  con 
stantly  be  in  your  minds,  and  deeply  affect  your  hearts.  To  them  you  are 
to  make  known  the  'words  by  which  they  and  their  children  may  be 
saved.'  To  them  you  are  to  teach,  not  the  commandments,  or  the  dog 
mas  of  men;  but  the  pure  doctrines  of  the  gospel,  drawn  directly  from 
the  Scriptures  of  truth.  You  will  most  religiously  beware  of  that  'phi 
losophy,  and  vain  deceit,  which  is  after  the  tradition  of  men,  after  the 
rudiments  of  the  world,  and  not  after  Christ;  and  avoid  questions  and 
strifes  of  words,  whereof  come  envy,  strife,  revilings,  evil  surmises,  and 
perverse  disputirigs  of  men  of  corrupt  minds.' 

"In  teaching  the  Gentiles,  it  will  be  your  business,  not  vehemently  to 
declaim  against  their  superstitions,  but  in  the  meekness  and  gentleness 
of  Christ,  to  bring  them  as  directly  as  possible  to  the  knowledge  of  di 
vine  truth.  It  is  'the  truth,  THE  TRUTH  AS  IT  is  IN  JESUS,  which  is 
mighty  through  God  to  the  pulling  down  of  strong  holds,  casting  down 
imaginations,  and  every  high  thing,  which  exalteth  itself  against  the 
knowledge  of  God;  and  bringing  every  thought  into  captivity  to  the  obe 
dience  of  Christ.'  So  far  as  the  truth  has  access  so  as  to  produce  its 
effect,  the  errors,  and  superstitions,  and  vices  of  Paganism  will  fall  of 
course.  You  will  beware  of  the  rock  on  which  Missionaries  have  too 
often  split;  and  not  at  once  advance  upon  the  uninstructed  with  things 
beyond  their  power  to  understand.  Beginning  with  the  'first  principles' 
of  the  doctrine  of  Christ,  you  will  proceed  in  your  instructions  gradually, 
with  patience  and  wisdom,  feeding  the  people  with  milk,  until  they  have 
strength  to  bear  meat.  And  for  their  good  unto  salvation,  it  will  be  your 
delight,  as  it  will  be  your  duty,  to  be  'instant  in  season,  and  out  of  sea 
son;  to  be  their  servants  for  Jesus'  sake,  and  to  spend  and  be  spent.' 

"10.  If  God,  in  his  infinite  grace,  prosper  your  labors,  and  give  you 
the  happiness  to  see  converts  to  the  truth,  you  will  proceed  in  regard  to 
them,  at  once  with  charity  and  caution.  You  will  allow  sufficient  time 
for  trial,  and  for  the  reality  of  conversion  to  be  attested  by  its  fruits; 
that,  as  far  as  possible,  the  scandal  of  apostasy  may  be  prevented.  You 
will  admit  none  as  members  of  the  church  of  Christ,  but  such  as  give 
credible  evidence  that  they  are  true  believers;  and  none  to  the  ordinance 
of  baptism,  but  credible  believers  and  their  households.  The  discipline 
of  Christ's  house,  you  will  charitably  and  faithfully  observe. 

"11.     As  in  Christian  lands,  so  in  all  lands,  the  hope  of  the  church 
is  principally  from  the  rising  generation.     Youth  and  children,  therefore, 
will  be  objects  of  your  very  particular  solicitude  and   attention;  and  no 
6 


42  PECUNIARY  ACCOUNTS.  1812. 

pains  will  be  spared  either  by  yourselves,  or  by  our  dear  sisters,  your 
wives,  for  their  Christian  education. 

"12.  It  will  be  your  desire,  as  it  is  ours,  to  lighten  as  much  as  pos 
sible  the  expenses  of  the  Mission;  that  by  the  pious  liberalities  of  this 
country,  your  establishment  may  be  enlarged,  and  other  missions  sup 
ported.  So  far,  therefore,  as  you  can  consistently  with  your  missionary 
duties,  you  will  apply  yourselves  to  the  most  eligible  ways  and  means  of 
procuring  a  support  for  yourselves  and  families,  agreeably  to  the  exam 
ple  of  European  missionaries,  and  even  of  the  apostles. 

"Dearly  beloved  brethren, 

You  cannot  but  be  sensible  of  the  vast  responsibility  under  which 
you  are  to  act.  Yo  are  made  a  spectacle  to  God,  to  angels  and  to  men. 
The  eyes  of  the  friends,  and  of  the  enemies,  of  Christ  and  his  cause  will 
be  upon  you.  You  are  the  objects  of  the  prayers,  and  of  the  hopes,  and 
of  the  liberalities,  of  many.  On  your  conduct  in  your  mission,  incal 
culable  consequences,  both  to  the  Christian  and  to  the  Pagan  world,  are 
depending.  "Be  strong  in  the  Lord,  and  be  faithful.  Count  not  even 
your  lives  dear  unto  yourselves,  so  that  you  may  finish  your  course  with 
joy,  and  the  ministry  which  you  have  received  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  to 
testify  the  Gospel  of  the  grace  of  God."  With  fervent  prayers  for  your 
safety,  your  welfare,  and  your  success,  we  commend  you,  dear  brethren, 
to  God ,  and  to  the  word  of  his  grace. 

A  true  copy  from  the  Records  of  the  Prudential  Committee, 

Attest,  SAMUEL    WORCESTER, 

Salem,  Feb.  7,  1812.  Clerk  of  the  Prudential  Committee. 


PECUNIARY   ACCOUNTS. 

The  American  Board   of  Commissioners,  in  account    current  ivith  Jeremiah  Evarts,  their 

Treasurer,  Dr. 

To  cash  paid  in  conformity  to  orders,  from  No.  1  to  No.  22,  inclusive,  signed  by  the  clerk 
of  the  Prudential  Committee,  between  the  annual  meeting  in  September,  1811,  and  the  pass 
ing  of  the  Act  of  incorporation,  June  20,  1812,  viz.  for, 

Expenses  incurred  in  the  prosecution  of  the  objects  of  the  Board,  9,327  04 

Payment  of  money  borrowed,          -  -  360  00 9,687  04 

To  losses  by  counterfeit  money  received  in  donations,  12  33 

9,699  37 
To  balance  carried  to  new  account,         -  4,091  63 

$13,791  00 
Contra  Cr. 
By  cash  remaining  in  the  hands  of  the  Prudential  Committee,  at  the 

annual  meeting  in  1811,  and  since  accounted  for  to  the  Treasurer,  843  64 

By  cash  borrowed  by  the  Prudential  Committee  in  Feb.  1812,  -  360  00 

By  cash  received  in  donations  between  the  annual  meeting  in  Sept. 

1811,  and  June  20, 1812,  12,587  36 

$13,791  00 


1812.  ACT    OP    INCORPORATION.  43 

ACT  OF  INCORPORATION. 

COMMONWEALTH   OF    MASSACHUSETTS. 

In  the  year  of  our  Lord  One    Thousand  Eight  Hundred  and  Twelve. 
An  Act  to  incorporate  the  American  Board    of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions. 

Whereas  WILLIAM  BARTLET  and  others  have  been  associated  under 
the  name  of  the  American  Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Mis 
sions,  for  the  purpose  of  propagating  the  Gospel  in  heathen  lands,  by 
supporting  Missionaries  and  diffusing  a  knowledge  of  the  Holy  Scrip 
tures,  and  have  prayed  to  be  incorporated  in  order  more  effectually  to 
promote  the  laudable  object  of  their  association. 

SEC.  1.  Be  it  enacted  by  the  Senate  and  House  of  Representatives 
in  General  Court  Assembled,  and  by  the  authority  of  the  same,  That 
WILLIAM  BARTLET,  Esq.  and  SAMUEL  SPRING,  D.  D.  both  of  Newbury- 
port,  JOSEPH  LYMAN,  D.  D.  of  Hatfield,  JEDIDIAH  MORSE,  D.  D.  of 
Charlestown,  SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  D.  D.  of  Salem,  the  Hon.  WILLIAM 
PHILLIPS,  Esq.  of  Boston,  and  the  Hon.  JOHN  HOOKER,  Esq.  of  Spring 
field,  and  their  associates,  be,  and  they  hereby  are  incorporated  and 
made  a  body  politic,  by  the  name  of  the  AMERICAN  BOARD  OF 
COMMISSIONERS  FOR  FOREIGN  MISSIONS;  and  by  that 
name  may  sue  and  be  sued,  plead  and  be  impleaded,  appear,  prosecute, 
and  defend,  to  final  judgment  and  execution;  and  in  their  said  corporate 
capacity,  they,  and  their  successors  forever,  may  take,  receive,  have  and 
hold  in  fee-simple  or  otherwise,  lands,  tenements,  and  hereditaments, 
by  gift,  grant,  devise,  or  otherwise,  not  exceeding  the  yearly  value  of 
four  thousand  dollars;  and  may  also  take  and  hold  by  donation,  be 
quest,  or  otherwise,  personal  estate  to  an  amount,  the  yearly  income  of 
which  shall  not  exceed  eight  thousand  dollars;  so  that  the  estate  afore 
said  shall  be  faithfully  appropriated  to  the  purpose  and  object  aforesaid, 
and  not  otherwise.  And  the  said  corporation  shall  have  power  to  sell, 
convey,  exchange,  or  lease  all  or  any  part  of  their  lands,  tenements,  or 
other  property,  for  the  benefit  of  their  funds;  and  may  have  a  common 
seal  which  they  may  alter  or  renew  at  pleasure.  Provided,  however, 
that  nothing  herein  contained  shall  enable  the  said  corporation,  or  any 
person  or  persons  as  trustees  for  or  for  the  use  of  said  corporation,  to  re 
ceive  and  hold  any  gift,  grant,  legacy,  or  bequest,  heretofore  given  or 
bequeathed  to  any  person  in  trust  for  said  Board,  unless  such  person  or 
persons,  could  by  law  have  taken  and  holden  the  same,  if  this  act  had 
not  passed. 

SEC.  2.  Be  it  further  enacted,  That  the  said  Board  may  annually 
choose  from  among  themselves,  by  ballot,  a  President,  a  Vice-President, 
and  a  Prudential  Committee;  and,  also,  from  among  themselves  or 
others  a  Corresponding  Secretary,  a  Recording  Secretary,  a  Treasurer, 
an  Auditor,  and  such  other  officers  as  they  may  deem  expedient;  all  of 
whom  shall  hold  their  offices  until  others  are  chosen  to  succeed  them; 
and  shall  have  such  powers  and  perform  such  duties,  as  the  said  Board 
may  order  and  direct;  and  in  case  of  vacancy  by  death,  resignation,  or 
otherwise,  the  vacancy  may  in  like  manner  be  filled  at  any  legal  meeting 
of  the  said  Board.  And  the  said  Treasurer  shall  give  bond  with  suf* 


44  ACT    OF    INCORPORATION.  1812. 

ficient  surety,  or  sureties,  in  the  judgment  of  the  Board,  or  the  Pruden 
tial  Committee,  for  the  faithful  discharge  of  the  duties  of  his  office. 

SEC.  3.  Be  it  further  enacted,  That  all  contracts,  and  deeds,  which 
the  said  Board  may  lawfully  make  and  execute,  signed  by  the  Chairman 
of  said  Prudential  Committee,  and  countersigned  by  their  Clerk,  (whom 
they  are  hereby  authorized  to  appoint,)  and  sealed  with  the  common  seal 
of  said  corporation,  shall  be  valid  in  law  to  all  intents  and  purposes. 

SEC.  4.  Be  it  further  enacted,  That  the  first  annual  meeting  of  the 
said  Board  shall  be  on  the  third  Wednesday  of  September  next,  at  such 
place  as  the  said  William  Bartlet  may  appoint;  and  the  present  officers 
of  said  Board  shall  continue  in  office  until  others  are  elected. 

SEC.  5.  Be  it  further  enacted,  That  the  said  Board,  at  the  first  an 
nual  meeting  aforesaid,  and  at  any  subsequent  annual  meeting,  may 
elect  by  ballot  any  suitable  persons  to  be  members  of  said  Board,  either 
to  supply  vacancies,  or  in  addition  to  their  present  number. 

SEC.  6.  Be  it  further  enacted,  That  the  said  Board  shall  have 
power  to  make  such  bye-laws,  rules,  and  regulations,  for  calling  future 
meetings  of  said  Board,  and  for  the  management  of  their  concerns,  as 
they  shall  deem  expedient;  provided  the  same  are  not  repugnant  to  the 
laws  of  this  Commonwealth. 

SEC.  7.  Be  it  further  enacted,  That  one  quarter  part  of  the  annual 
income  from  the  funds  of  said  Board  shall  be  faithfully  appropriated  to 
defray  the  expense  of  imparting  the  Holy  Scriptures  to  unevangelized 
nations  in  their  own  languages:  Provided,  that  nothing  herein  contained 
shall  be  so  construed  as  to  defeat  the  express  intentions  of  any  testator, 
or  donor,  who  shall  give  or  bequeath  money  to  promote  the  great  pur 
poses  of  the  Board:  Provided,  also,  that  nothing  herein  contained  shall 
be  so  construed,  as  to  restrict  said  Board  from  appropriating  more  than 
one  quarter  of  said  income  to  translating  and  distributing  the  Scriptures, 
whenever  they  shall  deem  it  advisable. 

SEC.  8.  Be  it  further  enacted,  That  not  less  than  one  third  of  said 
Board  shall  at  all  times  be  composed  of  respectable  laymen;  and  that 
not  less  than  one  third  of  said  Board  shall  be  composed  of  respectable 
clergymen;  the  remaining  third  to  be  composed  of  characters  of  the 
same  description,  whether  clergymen  or  laymen. 

SEC.  9.  Be  it  further  enacted,  That  the  legislature  of  this  Common 
wealth  shall  at  any  time  have  a  right  to  inspect,  by  a  Committee  of  their 
own  body,  the  doings,  funds,  and  proceedings  of  the  said  Corporation, 
and  may  at  their  pleasure  alter  or  annul  any  or  all  of  the  powers  herein 
granted. 

In  the  House  of  Representatives,  June  19th,  1812. — This  bill,  having 
had  three  several  readings,  passed  to  be  enacted. 

TIMOTHY    BIGELOW,  Speaker. 

In  the  Senate,  June  20^,  1812. — This  bill,  having  had  two  readings, 
passed  to  be  enacted.  SAMUEL  DANA,  President. 

June  20,  1812.— By  the  Governor,  Approved,      CALEB    STRONG. 

Copy — Attest,  ALDEN  BRADFORD,  Secretary  of  the  Commonwealth. 

N.  B.  The  Associates,  alluded  to  in  the  foregoing  act,  were  the  Hon. 
JOHN  TREADWELL,  Esq.  LL.D.,  the  Rev.  TIMOTHY  DWIGHT,  D.D.  LL.D. 
President  of  Yale  College,  Gen.  JEDIDIAH  HUNTINGTON,  and  the  Rev. 
CALVIN  CHAPIN,  all  of  Connecticut. 


1812.  BYE-LAWS,  45 


BYE-LAWS. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  Board  held  by  adjournment,  in  Boston,  Nov.  9, 
1812,  the  following  Bye-Laws  were  adopted. 

CHAPTER  I.     Of  the  Duties  of  the  Officers. 

SECTION  1.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  President,  and,  in  his  absence 
of  the  Vice  President,  and,  in  the  absence  of  both  President  and  Vice 
President,  of  the  oldest  member  of  the  Board  present,  to  preside  at  each 
meeting  of  the  Board,  and  to  perform  such  official  acts,  either  during  the 
session  of  the  Board,  or  at  any  other  time,  as  shall  be  assigned  to  him 
by  any  future  bye-law,  or  any  future  vote  of  the  Board. 

2.  It  shall  be   the  duty  of  the  Prudential  Committee  to   carry  into 
effect  all  votes  and  orders  of  the  Board,  the   execution  of  which  shall 
not  have   been  assigned   to  some  other   Committee; — to  superintend  all 
the  missions  instituted  or  patronized  by  the  Board; — to  examine,  coun 
sel,  instruct,    and    direct,    all   missionaries    approved  by   the  Board; — 
to  beep  the  Bond    given    by  the    Treasurer  to    the   Board,    in  pursu 
ance    of    the    Act    of  Incorporation; — to    draw   orders  on   the    'JVeas- 
urer,  authorizing  the  payment  of  all  monies  which  shall  be  expended 
under   their  direction; — to    prescribe    the   place   where   the  money  of 
the  Board  shall  be   deposited; — to  direct  the  loaning  of  monies,  or  the 
purchasing  of  productive  stock,  as  they  shall  judge  most  conducive  to 
the  interests  of  the  Board; — to  ascertain  the  'state   of  the  Treasury  at 
least  twice  a  year,  and  oftener  if  they  see  cause;— to  appoint,  or  author 
ize  the   appointment  of,  such  agents  at  home  and   abroad,  as  may,  in 
their  opinion,  be  necessary  to  secure  a  safe  remittance  and  a  faithful  ex 
penditure  of  monies,  and  for  such  other  purposes  as  in   their  judgment 
the  interest  of  the  Board  may  require; — and  to  perform  any  other  duties, 
which  shall  be  necessary,  in  their  opinion,  to  carry  into  effect  the  fore 
going  powers,  or  to  promote   the  interests  of  the  Board,  provided  the 
same  shall  not  be  contrary  to  any  vote  or  bye-law  of  the  Board,  nor  to 
the  Act  of  Incorporation. 

The  Prudential  Committee  shall  appoint  one  of  their  number  to  be 
their  Clerk,  whose  duty  it  shall  be  to  keep  a  full  record  of  their  doings, 
and  to  sign  all  their  orders  and  other  official  acts.  The  records  above 
described  shall  be  always  open  to  the  inspection  of  the  Board. 

3.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Corresponding  Secretary  to  act  as  the 
organ  of  the  Board  in  conducting  the  written   correspondences  between 
this  Board  and  similar  institutions,  and  between  this  Board  and  indi 
viduals,  at  home  and  abroad,  generally;  and  to  make  such  written  com 
munications  as  the  Board  or  the  Prudential  Committee  shall  particularly 
direct. 

4.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Recording  Secretary  to  keep  accurate 
minutes  of  the  proceedings  of  the  Board,  and  to  enter  the   same  in   a 
book  of  records,  and  to  certify  all  such  doings  of  the  Board  as  are  to 
be  known  only  by  an  inspection  of  the  records. 

5.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Treasurer  to  receive  all    monies  or 
other  property  given,  contributed,  or  paid  to  the  funds  of  the  Board, 


46  BYE-LAWS.  1812. 

and  to  give  receipts  therefor; — to  keep  safely  all  the  monies  of  the 
Board,  and  all  notes,  bonds,  deeds,  and  other  evidences  of  property; — 
to  pay  out  monies  according  to  the  orders  of  the  Prudential  Committee 
signed  by  their  Clerk,  or  of  the  Board  signed  by  the  Recording  Secre 
tary; — to  keep  fair  and  accurate  accounts  of  all  monies  received  and 
expended; — to  make  up  particular  annual  accounts,  and  estimates,  for 
the  information  of  the  Board; — to  loan  and  invest  monies,  and  make 
remittances,  according  to  the  direction  of  the  Board,  or  of  the  Prudential 
Committee; — to  exhibit  his  accounts,  whenever  required,  to  the  Board  or 
the  Prudential  Committee; — and  to  do  such  other  acts  as  experience  may 
prove  to  be  necessary,  in  order  to  a  faithful  execution  of  the  duties  of 
his  office. 

6.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Auditor  to  examine  the  Books  of  the 
Treasurer  thoroughly  and  particularly,  at  least  once  a  year;  and,  if 
he  shall  find  the  accounts  correctly  kept  and  accurately  computed,  the 
payments  well  vouched  for,  and  the  balance  satisfactorily  stated  and 
accounted  for,  to  give  his  certificate  accordingly;  which  certificate  he 
shall  enter  at  large  in  the  Treasurer's  books,  and  transmit  a  dupli 
cate  thereof  to  the  Recording  Secretary. 

CHAPTER  II.       Of  the  meetings  of  the  Board. 

SECTION  1.  There  shall  be  an  annual  meeting  of  this  Board,  on 
the  third  Wednesday  of  September  in  each  year,  until  the  Board  shall, 
at  any  annual  meeting,  fix  upon  some  other  day  for  that  purpose.  The 
place  of  holding  each  annual  meeting  shall  be  fixed  by  vote  at  the  an 
nual  meeting  next  preceding.  The  officers  of  the  Board  shall  be 
chosen  at  each  annual  meeting,  and  shall  hold  their  offices  until  others 
are  elected. 

2.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  President,  or  (in  case  of  his  death  or 
inability)  of  the  Vice  President,  or  (in  case  of  the  death  or  inability  of 
both  President  and  Vice  President)  of  the  oldest  member  of  the  Board, 
to  call  a  special  meeting  of  the  Board,  on  the  written   application  of  the 
Prudential  Committee,  or  any  three  other  members  of  the  Board.     The 
time  and  place  of  holding  the  meeting  shall  be  such  as  the  officer  who 
calls  the  meeting  shall  appoint.     On  receiving  an   application  as  above 
described,  the  officer  to  whom  the  same  is  directed  shall  give  each  mem 
ber  of  the  Board  notice  of  the  time  and  place  of  meeting,  by  transmit 
ting  to  each  member  a  letter  by  mail,  in  such  season  that,  by  the  ordi 
nary  course  of  the  mails,  each  member  may  receive  his  notification  at 
least  thirty  days  before  the  day  of  said  meeting. 

3.  All  adjourned  meetings  shall  be  notified  as  follows:  The  Record 
ing  Secretary  shall  transmit  written  notice  of  any  adjourned  meeting 
to  every  member  of  the  Board,  as  soon  as  practicable  after  such  meeting 
shall  have  been  agreed  upon  by  the  Board. 

4.  At  any  meeting  of  the  Board,  three  members  shall  form  a  quorum  to 
adjourn  or  dissolve  the  meeting;  and  five  members  shall  form  a  quorum 
to  transact  business.* 

*  These  Bye-Laws  were  incorporated  in,  and  superceded  by,  the  Laws  and  Regulations  of  the 
Board,  adopted  at  the  Annual  Meeting  of  1832,  and  printed  iu  the  Appendix  to  the  Report  of  that 
year.  EDITOR,  1834. 


1812.  ADDRESS   TO     THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  47 

ADDRESS    TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC. 

NOVEMBER,    1812. 

The  American  Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  at  their 
late  annual  meeting,  appointed  the  subscribers  a  committee  to  prepare 
and  publish  an  address  to  the  Christian  Public,  in  the  name  and  on  the 
behalf  of  the  Board.  The  favor  shewn  to  the  objects  in  view  by  the 
liberal  and  pious  in  different  parts  of  the  country,  as  manifested  by  their 
free-will  offerings,  their  active  exertions,  and  their  prayers,  cannot  with 
propriety  be  passed  over  in  silence:  nor  should  the  smiles  of  Divine 
Providence  upon  the  first  attempts  to  send  the  gospel  from  America  to 
Asia,  be  received  without  distinct  and  grateful  commemoration. 

For  a  particular  history  of  the  events  in  which  the  Board  have  been 
intimately  concerned  during  the  past  year,  it  is  sufficient  to  refer  the 
reader  to  the  Report  of  the  Prudential  Committee  herewith  published. 
The  two  most  prominent  of  these  events,  however,  it  is  proper  to  men 
tion  briefly  in  this  place. 

The  first  is  the  actual  commencement  of  a  mission  to  Asia,  by  the 
ordination  and  embarkation  of  five  missionaries  in  the  month  of  Febru 
ary  last.  The  magnitude  of  this  event,  if  estimated  by  its  probable 
consequences,  and  the  nature  of  the  cause  intended  to  be  promoted  by 
it,  is  such  as  to  form  a  new  era  in  the  history  of  American  churches. 
While  saying  this,  however,  we  do  not  forget,  that  the  immediate  conse 
quences  may  be  such  as  to  disappoint  the  hopes  and  try  the  faith  of 
Christians.  But  that  the  ultimate  consequences  of  all  attempts  to  diffuse 
the  Gospel  among  mankind  will  be  glorious,  the  explicit  promises  of 
God  forbid  us  to  doubt. 

The  other  event  referred  to  is  the  passing  of  an  act,  by  the  Legislature 
of  Massachusetts,  incorporating  the  Board,  and  giving  them  power  to 
hold,  in  their  corporate  capacity,  funds  sufficiently  large  to  answer  all 
the  present  purposes  of  the  institution.  The  advantages  of  perpetual 
succession,  and  of  holding  funds  under  the  immediate  protection  of  the 
law,  which  could  be  obtained  only  by  an  act  of  incorporation,  are  highly 
important  to  secure  the  confidence  of  the  American  public.  For  this 
instance  of  the  fostering  care  of  the  Legislature,  the  friends  of  religion, 
generally,  will  unite  with  the  Board  in  expressing  thanks. 

The  two  great  objects  which  the  Board  have  in  view,  and  to  which 
they  would  direct  the  attention  of  their  brethren,  are  the  establishment 
and  support  of  missions  among  the  heathen,  and  the  translation  and 
publication  of  the  Bible  in  languages  spoken  by  unevangelized  nations. 
That  these  objects  are  transcendently  important,  it  would  be  a  waste  of 
time  to  prove;  that  they  are  admirably  calculated  to  go  hand  in  hand 
seems,  also,  undeniable.  Neither  the  Bible  without  preachers,  nor 
preachers  without  the  Bible,  will  ever  effect  any  great  change  among 
ignorant  and  idolatrous  people.  The  majesty,  glory,  and  divine  author 
ity  of  the  Bible,  are  immediately  acknowledged  by  some,  at  least, 
among  the  heathen,  whenever  this  sacred  Book  speaks  to  them  in  their 
vernacular  tongue;  and  Providence  seems  to  indicate  very  clearly,  that 


48  ADDRESS    TO     THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  1812. 

the  great  renovation  of  the  world,  which  is  so  ardently  desired  by  good 
men,  and  so  explicitly  promised  by  God  himself,  will  be  produced  by 
a  universal  preaching  and  reading  of  the  Scriptures,  accompanied  by 
a  like  universal  operation  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  Instruments  will  be  used 
in  the  accomplishment  of  this  mighty  work,  and  these  instruments  God 
will  provide,  in  his  own  manner,  and  at  the  proper  season.  Happy  the 
Christian  who  shall  be  found  worthy  to  contribute  in  any  degree,  how 
ever  humble,  to  that  blessed  consummation,  which  is  daily  remembered 
with  joyful  anticipation  in  his  prayers. 

The  two  objects,  which  have  been  mentioned  are  sufficiently  great, 
extensive,  and  attainable,  to  solicit,  nay  to  command,  exertions  and  sac 
rifices  from  every  benevolent  person  throughout  the  Christian  world. 

These  objects  are  great.  Every  thing  which  has  a  direct  tendency  to 
promote  the  salvation  of  immortal  souls  is  great  beyond  the  power  of  lan 
guage  to  express,  or  imagination  to  conceive.  Who  shall  describe  the 
happiness  to  be  enjoyed  by  a  single  redeemed  sinner  during  a  blessed 
eternity?  or  the  miseries,  the  unutterable  and  never  ending  horrors, 
escaped  in  consequence  of  being  made  wise  unto  salvation?  Who  shall 
adequately  declare  the  magnitude  of  an  attempt  to  evangelize  whole  na 
tions,  and  ultimately  to  renovate  a  world;  an  attempt  to  disenthral  the 
slaves  of  Satan,  and  bring  them  into  the  glorious  liberty  of  the  sons  of 
God;  an  attempt  to  diffuse  peace  and  joy  throughout  the  abodes  of  men, 
and  to  people  the  regions  of  immortal  life  with  redeemed  and  sanctified 
spirits?  In  an  attempt  thus  noble  and  sublime  does  every  man  engage, 
who  aids  in  sending  the  heralds  of  salvation  to  the  heathen,  and  in  put 
ting  the  word  of  truth  into  their  hands. 

The  objects  are  extensive.  They  admit,  they  require,  the  labors  of 
multitudes.  The  glorious  employment  of  being  fellow  laborers  in  the 
cause  of  God,  is  an  employment  in  which  all,  who  are  so  inclined,  may 
at  all  times  engage.  But  the  support  of  missions,  and  the  publication 
of  the  Scriptures,  in  all  nations,  are  enterprises  in  which  the  efforts  of 
multitudes  can  be  united  with  peculiar  facility.  Christians  in  both 
hemispheres,  and  of  every  denomination,  can  direct  their  exertions  to 
produce  one  result, — a  result  of  the  highest  conceivable  importance. 
Combined  efforts,  whether  of  a  good  or  evil  character,  are  incomparably 
more  powerful  than  single  efforts  can  be.  How  delightful,  how  enrap 
turing  the  sight,  to  behold  good  men  of  every  rank  and  condition,  in  all 
parts  of  the  world,  uniting  in  one  vast  labor  of  love. 

It  is  not  only  practicable  for  multitudes  to  unite  in  the  great  purpose 
of  evangelizing  the  world;  but  such  a  union  is  absolutely  necessary,  in 
order  to  bring  about  this  event  in  the  shortest  time.  All  the  power  and 
influence  of  the  whole  Christian  world  must  be  put  in  requisition,  during 
the  course  of  those  beneficent  labors  which  will  precede  the  millennium. 
What  expenses,  what  privations  and  sacrifices  must  be  incurred,  before 
six  hundred  millions  of  heathens  can  read  the  word  of  God  in  their  own 
languages,  and  possess  it  in  their  own  families;  and  before  preachers 
can  be  furnished  to  direct  this  countless  host  into  the  path  of  life!  The 
utmost  exertion  of  every  Christian  now  living,  so  far  as  his  other  duties 
will  permit,  is  required  in  this  glorious  service.  How  boundless  must 
be  the  field  of  labor  which  admits,  and  will  continue  to  admit,  the  labors 
of  all  benevolent  persons,  in  every  region  of  the  habitable  globe! 


1812.  ADDRESS     TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  49 

But  the  most  animating  consideration  still  remains — these  objects  are 
attainable.  To  deny  the  practicability  and  usefulness  of  missions,  and 
translations  of  the  Scriptures,  would  manifest  a  total  ignorance  of  the 
subject,  or  a  deep  hostility  to  the  progress  of  Christianity.  Twenty 
years  ago,  objections  to  these  extraordinary  efforts  might  have  been 
formed  much  more  plausibly  than  at  present.  Happily  for  the  world, 
such  objections  did  not  then  stifle  those  beneficent  attempts,  which  have 
already  given  the  Bible  to  nations  in  the  heart  of  Asia,  in  their  own  lan 
guages.  Whether  Providence  shall  bless  the  efforts  of  this  Board,  it  is 
not  in  the  power  of  man  to  determine.  Let  us  wait  with  humility  and 
submission.  But  that  the  objects  in  view  will  be  attained,  and  by  hu 
man  instruments  too,  will  not  be  doubted  by  those,  who  expect  the  final 
prevalence  of  true  religion  over  error  and  sin.  If  the  faith  of  Christians 
in  America  should  be  tried  at  the  outset,  it  is  no  more  than  has  frequent 
ly  been  experienced  by  Christians  in  every  age.  Such  trials  have  often 
preceded  the  most  signal  success,  and  far  from  disheartening,  should 
stimulate  to  more  animated  and  faithful  labors. 

While  on  this  part  of  the  subject,  it  is  proper  to  mention,  that,  since 
the  Board  was  incorporated,  unexpected  and  most  auspicious  intelligence 
has  arrived  from  Asia.  An  Auxiliary  Bible  Society  has  been  formed  at 
Calcutta,  which  in  a  short  time  raised  funds  to  the  amount  of  above 
thirty  thousand  dollars,  and  at  the  last  dates  was  printing  the  whole 
Bible  in  one  language,  and  the  New  Testament  in  two  others,  for  im 
mediate  and  extensive  distribution.  A  regular  succession  of  large  edi 
tions  of  the  Scriptures,  in  the  common  languages  of  Asia,  may  now  be 
expected,  if  the  liberality*of  Christians  shall  equal  the  occasion  for  its 
exercise.  All  that  the  people  of  America  now  have  to  do,  in  order  to 
share  in  this  exalted  undertaking,  is  to  remit  their  money  to  Calcutta, 
the  centre  of  Eastern  missions  and  translations,  where  suitable  agents 
will  easily  be  provided  to  superintend  the  expenditure.  The  Board 
will  endeavor,  as  soon  as  possible,  to  arrange  a  system  of  safe  and  regu 
lar  remittances  to  India,  so  that  the  donations  of  the  benevolent  in  this 
country  shall  reach  the  place  of  their  destination,  and  the  field  of  use 
fulness,  without  any  considerable  delay.  At  present  there  seems  to  be 
no  difficulty  in  making  remittances  by  the  way  of  London. 

It  is  also  worthy  of  consideration,  that  the  Board  are  not  confined  in 
their  operations  to  any  part  of  the  world;  but  may  direct  their  attention 
to  Africa,  North  or  South  America,  or  the  Isles  of  the  sea,  as  well  as  to 
Asia.  If  unsuccessful  in  one  place,  they  can  turn  to  another;  and  can 
seize,  (according  to  their  means,)  upon  any  promising  opportunity  to  do 
good  to  any  portion  of  the  heathen  world. 

It  is  an  obvious  reflection,  and  a  pretty  common  one,  that  Christians 
of  the  present  generation  are  greatly  favored.  While  their  eyes  have 
seen  most  astonishing  and  unparalleled  displays  of  human  wickedness, 
they  have  also  beheld  innumerable  trophies  of  divine  grace.  From  na 
tions  betrayed,  enslaved,  weltering  in  their  blood,  and  shrouded  in  a 
starless  night  of  infidelity  and  profligacy,  their  attention  has  been  turned 
with  transport  to  the  light  which  has  encircled  the  dwellings  of  the  faith 
ful,  and  to  the  rising  glories  of  the  Sun  of  Righteousness.  Their  ears, 
for  a  long  time  stunned  by  the  outcries,  blasphemies,  and  unutterable 
confusion  of  a  wicked  world  suffering  the  vengeance  of  God  from  the 


50  ADDRESS    TO     THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  1812. 

hands  of  cruel  men,  have  found  a  happy  relief  in  hearing  the  glad  sounds 
of  salvation  reverberating  through  heathen  lands,  and  in  listening  to  the 
songs  of  converted  idolaters,  soon  to  be  exchanged  for  the  songs  of  the 
blessed.  Already  they  hear,  or  seem  to  hear,  the  commencement  of  that 
celestial  hymn,  Arise,  shine;  for  thy  light  is  come,  and  the  glory  of  the 
Lord  is  risen  upon  thee;  a  hymn  in  which  all  tribes  and  nations  will 
hereafter  unite  with  joy  unspeakable,  and  which  will  be  re-echoed  from 
the  realms  of  immortality  in  one  boundless  chorus  of  rapture  and  praise. 

To  be  silent  and  inactive  spectators  of  these  animating  scenes,  if  that 
only  were  permitted,  would  be  a  grand  felicity.  But  Christians  need 
not  be  silent  and  inactive  spectators.  Indeed  they  ought  not;  they  must 
not.  They  are  now  favored  with  opportunities  of  promoting  the  cause  of 
Christ  not  enjoyed  by  preceding  generations.  No  age  since  that  of  the 
Apostles  has  afforded  so  great  encouragement  to  engage  with  zeal  and 
activity  in  the  best  of  all  causes,  as  the  present  day  affords.  How  would 
the  saints  of  former  times,  the  Baxters,  the  Beveridges,  the  Wattses,  the 
Edwardses,  have  rejoiced  to  see  this  day?  They  looked  forward  to  it,  and 
to  the  more  delightful  scenes  still  future,  with  joyful  anticipations;  how 
would  they  have  exulted  to  join  in  its  employments,  and  mingle  their  labors 
and  prayers  with  those  of  the  great  multitudes,  who  now  incessantly  labor 
and  pray  for  the  universal  establishment  of  the  Redeemer's  kingdom? 

It  is  now  generally  seen  and  felt,  by  those  who  have  any  claim  to  be 
considered  as  proper  judges,  that  Christianity  is  the  only  remedy  for  the 
disorders  and  miseries  of  this  world,  as  well  as  the  only  foundation  of 
hope  for  the  world  to  come.  No  other  agent  will  ever  control  the  violent 
passions  of  men;  and  without  the  true  religion,  all  attempts  to  meliorate 
the  condition  of  mankind  will  prove  as  illusory  as  a  feverish  dream. 
The  genuine  patriot,  therefore,  and  the  genuine  philanthropist,  must 
labor,  so  far  as  they  value  the  prosperity  of  their  country  and  the  hap 
piness  of  the  human  race,  to  diffuse  the  knowledge  and  the  influence  of 
Christianity,  at  home  and  abroad.  Thus  will  they  labor  most  effectually 
to  put  a  final  period  to  oppression  and  slavery,  to  perfidy  and  war,  and 
to  all  the  train  of  evils  which  falsehood,  ambition,  and  cruelty  have  so 
profusely  scattered  through  the  world.  Infidelity  seems  abashed,  and  in 
the  attitude  of  retiring  from  every  place  where  her  hideous  form  and 
features  can  be  compared  with  the  symmetry  and  beauty  of  religion. 
She  seeks  concealment  and  obscurity,  and  is  half  ashamed  of  her  vota 
ries,  who,  in  their  turn,  are  cordially  ashamed  of  her.  Over  infidelity 
and  every  abuse  of  religion  the  Captain  of  our  salvation  will  triumph. 
Wise  are  they  who  enlist  under  his  banner,  fight  his  battles,  and  share 
in  the  joys  of  his  victory! 

Possibly  it  may  be  thought  by  some,  that  the  present  times  are  un 
favorable  to  the  objects  above  described,  so  far  as  pecuniary  contribu 
tions  are  needed;  and  that  it  would  be  best  to  defer  charitable  designs 
till  our  national  calamities  shall  have  been  removed.  We  cannot  yield 
for  a  moment  to  reasoning  of  this  sort.  It  might  receive  many  answers; 
a  few  brief  hints  will  be  sufficient. 

God  alone  is  the  deliverer  from  public  troubles,  and  must  be  regarded 
as  such  by  all  who  have  any  just  views  of  his  providence.  He  can 
change  scenes  of  national  distress  into  scenes  of  joy  and  gratulation. 
He  can  cause  light  to  spring  up  out  of  darkness,  and  educe  good  from 


1812.  ADDRESS    TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  51 

evil.  To  him  must  the  eyes  of  all  be  turned,  who  long  for  the  happi 
ness  of  mankind  and  the  prosperity  of  the  Church.  What  method  so 
likely  to  secure  the  favor  of  God,  as  that  of  obeying  his  commandments? 
And  it  is  his  commandment,  that  the  Gospel  should  be  preached  to 
every  creature. 

Besides,  it  would  be  adding  immeasurably  to  all  the  necessary  evils 
of  war,  if  every  charitable  enterprise  were  to  cease  during  its  continu 
ance.  The  interests  of  truth  and  beneficence  would  thus  lose  more  in  a 
short  war  than  could  be  regained  in  a  long  peace.  National  calami 
ties,  instead  of  producing  national  repentance  and  reformation,  would  be 
the  signal  for  letting  loose  the  malignant  passions,  while  all  the  charita 
ble  virtues  were  to  lie  dormant.  What  would  be  the  result  of  this  but 
a  return  of  the  ages  of  barbarism?  Let  the  people  of  this  country 
rather  imitate  the  multitudes  of  good  people  in  the  country  to  which  we 
now  stand  in  the  relation  of  a  public  enemy,  who  in  circumstances  of 
great  national  anxiety,  and  while  pressed  with  uncommon  burdens,  are 
more  and  more  stimulated  to  devote  their  influence,  their  example,  and 
their  property,  to  the  service  of  their  Lord. 

Again;  by  engaging  in  any  course  of  beneficence  we  consult  our 
present  happiness.  The  devotees  of  pleasure  and  dissipation  are  not 
deterred  from  their  pursuits  by  the  present  aspect  of  the  times.  Millions 
are  annually  expended  for  their  temporary  gratification;  and  the  greater 
part  of  these  enormous  sums  is  directly  subservient  to  the  cause  of  sin. 
Shall  Christians  refuse  their  thousands?  Shall  they  be  the  only  persons 
who  plead  national  calamities  as  a  reason  for  withholding  their  money, 
when  that  money  will  contribute,  if  wisely  laid  out,  to  bring  these  very 
calamities  to  an  end,  and  to  build  up  that  cause  by  the  prevalence  of 
which  all  calamities  would  cease?  Let  them  rather  supplicate  the  favor 
of  God  for  every  human  being;  and  strive  earnestly  to  extend  the 
boundaries  of  that  kingdom  which  is  righteousness,  and  peace,  and  joy 
in  the  Holy  Ghost. 

While  thanks  are  returned  to  all  the  benevolent  societies  and  indi 
viduals,  by  whose  distinguished  liberality  the  Board  have  been  encour 
aged  and  supported  in  their  first  attempts,  it  is  with  pleasure  we  are  able 
to  add,  that  the  other  benevolent  institutions  of  a  similar  nature,  in  our 
country,  have  been  unusually  favored  with 'respect  to  their  funds  during 
the  past  year.  This  was  confidently  expected,  and  should  be  acknowl 
edged  with  devout  gratitude.  All  benevolent  societies,  conducted  on 
Christian  principles,  are  sisters.  They  nourish  or  languish  together. 
Occupying  different  fields  of  usefulness,  and  acting  advantageously  by 
adopting  the  principle  of  a  division  of  labor,  they  promote  the  success 
of  each  other,  and  accomplish  vastly  more  than  could  be  done  by  the 
same  pecuniary  means  under  the  direction  of  one  Society.  They 
possess  all  the  advantages  of  combination;  and  yet  do  not  become  un- 
wieldly  and  embarrassed  by  the  multiplicity  of  their  concerns.  Let  the 
peculiar  friends  of  each  unite  in  promoting  the  success  of  all.  Let  there 
be  no  jealousy  between  them  but  a  godly  jealousy;  and  no  rivalry  but  a 
holy  emulation  in  one  grand  attempt  to  extend  the  gospel  through  the 
world. 

While  soliciting  the  prayers  of  the  pious,  and  the  pecuniary  contribu 
tions  of  all  who  are  able  and  willing  to  contribute,  it  behoves  us  explicit- 


52  ADDRESS    TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  1812- 

ly  to  disclaim  any  desire  to  profit  by  mere  appeals  to  the  passions.  We 
trust  that  the  addresses  and  other  public  papers  of  the  Board,  have  never 
partaken  of  this  character.  Convinced  that  the  work  of  evangelizing 
mankind  is  the  noblest  work  in  which  men  ever  engaged,  that  the  en 
couragements  to  prosecute  it  are  at  all  times  abundant,  and  that  its  com 
pletion  is  certain,  nothing  more  can  at  any  time  be  needed  to  interest 
the  hearts  of  Christians  in  it,  than  to  open  a  promising  field  of  labor. 

At  the  present  time,  the  call  for  renewed  and  increased  exertions  is 
so  loud,  that  it  has  been  heard  and  obeyed  by  thousands  in  different  parts 
of  the  world.  The  friend  and  patron  of  missions,  far  from  acting  by 
the  blind  impulse  of  passion,  is  supported  by  the  plainest  dictates  of 
reason,  the  decisive  experience  of  ages,  and  the  infallible  declarations 
of  Scripture.  He  who  embarks  in  such  a  cause,  and  whose  heart  ap 
proves  the  conclusions  of  his  reason,  will  not  easily  relinquish  the  object 
of  his  hopes  and  prayers. 

It  is  worthy  of  particular  notice,  that  there  has  been  a  uniform 
progress,  for  the  last  twenty  years,  in  the  number,  magnitude,  and 
success  of  the  attempts  to  preach  the  Gospel,  and  to  impart  the  Scrip 
tures,  to  the  ignorant  and  destitute,  both  in  Christian  and  heathen 
lands.  God  grant  that  this  progress  may  continue  and  increase;  and 
that  those  who  offer,  and  all  who  read,  this  address,  may  have  some  hum 
ble  share  in  promoting  a  cause,  which  aims  directly  and  supremely  at 
the  glory  of  God,  and  the  salvation  of  the  whole  human  race. 

We  are  unwilling  to  conclude,  without  addressing  a  few  words  par 
ticularly,  and  very  respectfully,  to  the  Clergy,  the  reverend  pastors  of  the 
American  churches. 

FATHERS  AND  BRETHREN, — From  the  performance  of  your  profes 
sional  duties,  especially  from  the  study  of  the  sacred  Volume,  you  de 
rive  most  affecting  considerations  with  respect  to  the  worth  of  immortal 
souls,  and  the  divine  efficacy  and  glory  of  the  Christian  religion.  When 
you  look  around  upon  a  world  lying  in  wickedness,  and  reflect  on  the 
many  discouragements  and  very  partial  successes,  which  attend  your 
best  and  most  highly  favored  exertions,  you  cannot  but  sigh  for  the  ad 
vent  of  that  blessed  day,  when  "they  shall  not  teach  every  man  his 
neighbor,  saying,  KNOW  THE  LORD,  for  all  shall  know  Him,  from  the 
least  to  the  greatest."  Lameriting  the  sins,  and  feeling  for  the  miseries 
of  mankind,  you  habitually  regard  with  deep  interest  all  attempts  to  ex 
tend  the  influence  of  the  Gospel.  Without  the  good  wishes  and  cordial 
aid  of  a  serious  and  enlightened  clergy,  no  great  attempt  of  a  religious 
nature  will  ever  succeed;  but  every  such  attempt,  judiciously  made  and 
conscientiously  persevered  in,  will  be  countenanced  by  these  good 
wishes  and  this  aid. 

The  Board  whose  duty  it  is  to  superintend  the  first  American  mission 
to  foreign  parts,  and  to  expend  with  fidelity  such  monies  as  may  be  com 
mitted  to  their  disposal,  deeply  feel  their  responsibility.  They  wish  for 
all  information  which  can  be  had,  relative  to  4the  subjects  which  will 
come  before  them.  Any  communications,  therefore,  from  the  Clergy, 
either  in  their  individual  or  associated  capacities,  will  be  received  with 
respect  and  thankfulness.  It  will  be  the  desire  and  aim  of  the  Board  so 
to  conduct  their  affairs,  as  to  secure  the  confidence  of  all  Christians 
throughout  the  United  States,  of  every  denomination;  and  they  venture 


1812.  ADDRESS    TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  53 

to  hope  for  the  countenance  of  all,  who  admit  the  utility  of  missions  and 
translations. 

Among  the  numerous  claims  upon  the  public  liberality,  you  will 
doubtless  recommend  those  objects  as  worthy,  of  especial  regard,  which 
have  a  direct  tendency  to  make  men  happy  here,  and  to  fit  them  for 
heaven.  That  all  such  objects  may  be  promoted,  and  that  they  all  may 
harmonize  in  producing  one  grand  result,  the  universal  triumph  of  truth 
and  benevolence,  you  will  not  cease  to  labor  and  pray.  Thus  laboring 
and  praying,  and  exciting  others  to  a  course  of  beneficent  actions,  a 
more  devout  attention  will  accompany  your  weekly  ministrations.  They 
who  are  urged  to  feel  for  the  souls  of  the  perishing  heathen,  will  be  apt 
to  feel  that  they  and  their  families  have  souls  to  be  saved  or  lost  for  ever. 
Such  has  generally  been  the  effect  hitherto,  and  there  is  every  reason  to 
believe  that  such  will  be  the  effect  in  future. 

Let  us  all  remember,  Fathers  and  Brethren,  that  the  time  allotted  to 
our  earthly  labors  is  short;  that  the  spiritual  wants  of  the  heathen  im 
periously  demand  attention  and  relief;  and,  while  urging  each  other  and 
our  fellow  sinners  to  deeds  of  charity,  let  us  never  forget  the  words  of  the 
Lord  Jesus,  hoiv  he  said,  It  is  more  blessed  to  give  than  to  receive. 
In  behalf  of  the  Board, 

JEDIDIAH   MORSE,  } 

SAMUEL  WORCESTER,      }  Committee. 
JEREMIAH  EVARTS.          ) 
Boston,  Nov.  10,  1812. 


MINUTES 


OF    THE 


FOURTH  ANNUAL  MEETING 


The  Annual  Meeting  of  the  Board  was  held  at  Concert  Hall  in  Bos 
ton,  on  Wednesday,  Sept.  15,  1813.     Present, 

The  Hon.  JOHN  TREADWELL,  Esq.  LL.  D. 
Rev.  JOSEPH  LYMAN,  D.  D. 
Rev.  TIMOTHY  DWIGHT,  D.  D.  LL.  D. 
Rev.  SAMUEL  SPRING,  D.  D. 

WILLIAM  BARTLET,  Esq. 
Rev.  SETH  PAYSON,  D.  D. 
Hon.  JOHN  HOOKER,  Esq. 
Rev.  CALVIN  CHAPIN, 
Rev.  JAMES  RICHARDS, 
Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  D.  D. 
JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq. 

The  meeting  was  opened  with  prayer  by  the  Vice  President. 
Minutes  of  the  last  annual  meeting,  and  of  two  adjourned  meetings, 
were  read. 

The   following  gentlemen    were    chosen    officers   for   the  year   en 
suing,  viz. 

The  Hon.  JOHN  TREADWELL,  Esq.  President. 
The  Rev.  Dr.  SPRING,  Vice  President. 
WILLIAM  BARTLET,  Esq.    ~) 

The  Rev.  Dr.  SPRING,  I   Prudential  Committee_ 

The  Rev.  Dr.  WORCESTER, 

JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq.    J 

The  Rev.  Dr.  WORCESTER,  Corresponding  Secretary. 
The  Rev.  Mr.  CHAPIN,  Recording  Secretary. 
JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq.  Treasurer. 
CHARLES  WALLEY,  Esq.  Auditor. 


1813.  MINUTES  OF  THE  BOARD.  55 

The  Rev.  Dr.  Spring  laid  before  the  Board  a  seal,  which  had  been 
presented  to  the  Board  by  Robert  Ralston,  Esq.  Whereupon, 

Voted,  to  accept  the  said  seal  as  the  seal  of  this  corporation. 

Voted,  that  the  thanks  of  this  Board  be  presented  to  Mr.  Ralston  for 
his  generous  donation. 

The  Rev.  Dr.  Lyman  and  the  Hon.  Mr.  Hooker,  were  appointed  a 
committee  to  revise  the  bye-law  respecting  the  powers  of  the  Prudential 
Committee. 

The  Rev.  Mr.  Chapin  and  the  Rev.  Dr.  Payson,  were  appointed  a  com 
mittee  to  report  on  the  case  of  Messrs.  Judson  and  Rice,  who  have  with 
drawn  themselves  from  the  service  of  the  Board. 

The  Rev.  Dr.  Spring  had  leave  of  absence  the  remainder  of  the 
session. 

Adjourned  till  9  o'clock  to-morrow  morning. 

Thursday,  Sept.  16.  Met  according  to  adjournment,  and  the  business 
of  the  day  was  opened  with  prayer  by  the  Recording  Secretary. 

The  Rev.  JEDIDIAH  MORSE,  D.  D.  took  his  seat  at  the  Board. 

Voted,  That  this  Board  consider  the  relation  between  this  Board,  and 
the  Rev.  Adoniram  Judson,  jun.,  as  having  been  dissolved  on  the  first 
day  of  Sept.  1812,  when,  in  a  letter  to  the  Corresponding  Secretary,  he 
announced  his  withdrawment  of  himself  from  under  our  instructions. 

Voted,  That  this  Board  consider  the  relation  between  this  Board  -and 
the  Rev.  Luther  Rice,  as  having  been  dissolved  on  the  23d  day  of  Oc 
tober,  1812,  when,  in  a  letter  to  the  Corresponding  Secretary,  he  sig 
nified,  that  it  was  no  longer  compatible  with  his  sentiments  to  follow  our 
instructions. 

Voted,  That  the  following  be  adopted  as  a  part  of  the  bye-laws, 
chap.  I.  sect.  2. 

All  applications  to  be  employed  as  missionaries  shall  be  made  to  the 
Prudential  Committee;  and  said  committee  shall  carefully  inquire  and 
examine  into  the  qualifications  of  any  applicants;  and  in  case  thereupon 
they  are  well  satisfied  of  the  propriety  of  employing  such  applicants, 
they  are  authorized  to  expend  any  sums  of  money  necessary  for  fully 
qualifying  the  applicants  for  the  mission  to  which  they  may  be  designat 
ed,  or  on  which  they  may  be  proposed  to  be  sent;  and  when,  in  the 
judgment  of  said  committee,  the  applicants  may  be  suitably  qualified,  the 
said  committee  are  authorized  to  send  them  on  such  missions  as  they 
may  think  proper. 

And  the  Prudential  Committee  are  authorized  to  suspend  any  mis 
sionary,  whenever,  in  their  judgment,  he  shall  violate  the  instructions 
given  him,  or  shall  fail  to  perform  the  duties  reasonably  required  of  him, 
until  the  next  meeting  of  the  Board. 

The  Prudential  Committee  shall  regularly  report  their  proceedings  to 
the  Board. 

At  11  o'clock,  A.  M.  attended  public  worship,  when  a  sermon  was 
delivered  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Dwight  from  John  x.  16. 

Voted,  That  the  thanks  of  this  Board  be  presented  to  the  Rev.  Dr. 
Dwight  for  his  sermon  this  day  delivered,  and  that  a  copy  be  requested 
for  publication. 


56  MINUTES    OF   THE    BOARD.  1813. 

The  Rev.  Dr.  Morse,  Mr.  Evarts,  and  the  Rev.  Dr.  Worcester,  were 
appointed  a  committee  to  carry  the  above  vote  into  effect. 

The  Report  of  the  Prudential  Committee  was  accepted. 

The  Treasurer's  accounts  were  exhibited,  as  examined  and  certified 
by  the  Auditor,  and  accepted. 

The  Rev.  Drs.  Dwight,  Morse,  and  Lyman,  were  appointed  a  commit 
tee  relative  to  the  connection  between  Mr.  Eleazer  Williams  and  this 
Board. 

Voted,  That  Mr.  Evarts  be  requested  to  present  the  thanks  of  this 
Board  to  Mr.  Duren,  and  the  choir  of  singers  under  his  direction,  for 
the.ir  very  acceptable  services  in  the  public  exercises  of  this  day. 

Voted,  That  the  thanks  of  this  Board  be  presented  to  the  committee 
of  the  First  Church  in  Boston,  for  the  use  of  their  church  for  public 
religious  exercises. 

Voted,  That  the  Prudential  Committee  be  directed  to  make  inquiry 
respecting  the  settlement  of  a  mission  at  St.  Salvador,  Brazil;  at  Port 
Louis,  in  the  Isle  of  France;  and  on  the  island  of  Madagascar. 

Whereas  it  has  been  stated  to  this  Board  by  the  Prudential  Committee, 
that  a  gentleman,  who  wishes  his  name  not  to  be  mentioned,  has  offered 
to  this  Board  a  printing-press,  whenever  it  shall  be  needed  to  publish  the 
Scriptures  under  the  direction  of  the  Board, — 

Voted,  That  the  Clerk  of  the  Prudential  Committee  be  requested  to 
present  the  thanks  of  the  Board  for  this  liberal  offer,  and  that  the  dona 
tion  be  accepted. 

Voted,  That  this  Board  approve  of  the  measures  taken  by  Messrs. 
Richards  and  Warren,  as  reported  by  the  Prudential  Committee;  and 
that  the  thanks  of  this  Board  be  presented  to  Robert  Ralston,  Esq., 
Drs.  Dorsey,  James,  Chapman,  Hewson,  Davis,  and  Billings,  the  Rev. 
Drs.  Staughton  and  Rogers,  Mr.  Patterson,  and  others,  for  the  kindness 
and  patronage  which  they  have  respectively  extended  to  Messrs.  Rich 
ards  and  Warren. 

Adjourned  till  nine  o'clock  to-morrow  morning. 

Friday,  Sept.  17.  Met  according-  to  adjournment,  and  the  business  of 
the  day  was  opened  with  prayer  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Payson. 

The  committee  to  whom  was  referred  the  case  of  Mr.  Eleazer  Wil 
liams,  presented  the  following  report,  which  was  accepted: 

That  Eleazer  Williams,  upon  satisfying  the  Prudential  Committee 
with  respect  to  his  departure  from  the  course  prescribed  to  him  by  the 
Board,*  and  engaging  to  place  himself  fixedly  under  their  direction, 
may  again  be  received  under  the  patronage  of  the  Board. 

Voted,  That  the  Treasurer  be  allowed  three  hundred  dollars  for  his 
official  services  the  last  year. 

A  communication  was  received  from  the  Hon.  Elias  Boudinot,  Esq., 
a  member  of  the  Board,  enclosing,  as  a  donation,  a  bill  of  exchange  on 
London  for  one  hundred  pounds  sterling;  Whereupon 

Voted,  That  the  thanks  of  this  Board  be  presented  to  the  generous 
donor. 

*  He  had  prematurely  joined  his  brethren,  the  Iroquois  Indians,  in  New  York  and  Vermont, 
near  the  frontiers  of  the  United  States. 


1813.  REPORT.  57 

Voted,  That  the  next  annual  meeting  of  this  Board  be  held  in  the 
Philosophical  Chamber  of  Yale  College,  on  the  Thursday  next  after  the 
second  Wednesday  of  September,  1814,  at  10  o'clock,  A.  M. 

Voted,  That  the  Prudential  Committee  be  authorized  to  allow  the 
missionaries  of  this  Board  such  incidental  and  unforeseen  expenses,  as 
have  been  necessary. 

Voted,  That  the  thanks  of  this  Board  be  presented  to  Samuel  H. 
Walley,  Esq.  for  his  services  as  Auditor. 

The  Rev.  Drs.  Morse  and  Worcester,  and  Mr.  Evarts,  were  appointed 
a  committee  to  prepare  and  publish  an  address  to  the  public  on  the 
behalf  of  the  Board. 

Voted,  That  it  be  the  duty  of  the  Prudential  Committee  to  compile 
and  publish  a  report,  including  the  address  to  the  public,  the  report  of 
the  Prudential  Committee,  a  statement  of  the  Treasurer's  accounts,  such 
accounts  of  donations  as  may  be  found  expedient,  extracts  from  the 
minutes  of  the  present  session,  and  such  other  information  as  they  may 
deem  useful. 

During  the  session,  the  Rev.  ALEXANDER  PROUDFIT,  D.  D.,  of  New 
York,  and  Gen.  HENRY  SEWALL,  and  the  Rev.  JESSE  APPLETON,  D.  D., 
President  of  Bowdoin  College,  of  the  District  of  Maine,  were  unanim 
ously  elected  members  of  the  Board. 

The  Rev.  Dr.  Miller  was  appointed  to  preach  at  the  next  annual 
meeting;  and  the  Rev.  Mr.  Richards  was  appointed  his  second. 

Voted,  That  the  Recording  Secretary  give  immediate  notice  to  all  the 
members  of  the  Board,  who  are  not  now  present,  of  the  time  and  place 
of  the  next  annual  meeting. 

The  meeting  was  closed  with  prayer  by  the  Rev.  Mr.  Richards. 

REPORT. 

BRETHREN, — When  Jesus  of  Nazareth  was  going  about  doing  good, 
despised  and  rejected  of  men,  little  was  it  expected  by  the  world, 
and  little  did  it  comport  with  human  probability,  that  he  would  as 
cend  to  the  right  hand  of  the  Majesty  on  high,  be  invested  with 
all  power  in  heaven  and  earth,  and  reign  until  every  knee  should 
bow  to  him,  and  every  tongue  confess  him  to  be  Lord,  to  the  glory 
of  God  the  Father.  As  he  himself,  on  his  way  to  the  joy  set  before  him, 
passed  through  scenes  apparently  the  most  inauspicious;  so  his  servants, 
whom  he  has  been  pleased  to  employ  in  great  designs  and  enterprises  for 
advancing  his  kingdom,  have  generally  been  subjected,  especially  in  their 
initiatory  attempts,  to  trials  and  adversities,  painful  in  their  nature,  and 
unpropitious  in  their  aspect.  But  often  has  he  shewn  that  his  thoughts 
and  ways  are  not  like  those  of  men.  Often  has  he  displayed  the  pleni 
tude  of  his  power,  wisdom,  and  goodness,  in  causing  light  to  shine  out  of 
darkness,  in  carrying  small  beginnings  into  great  results,  and  in  crowning 
designs  and  enterprises,  held  for  a  time  under  discouraging  circumstan 
ces,  with  unexpected  and  glorious  success.  Always,  indeed,  there  is 
perfect  safety  in  confiding  in  him;  and  happy  are  they,  whether  for  the 
present  successful  or  unsuccessful,  who  are  truly  engaged  in  his  cause. 
Under  these  impressions,  the  Prudential  Committee  now  meet  their  breth 
ren,  and  submit  their  report  with  lively  sentiments  of  gratitude  and  hope. 
8 


58  REPORT.  1813. 

It  was  not  until  about  three  months  after  the  last  meeting  of  this  Board, 
that  the  first  intelligence  from  our  missionaries  sent  out  to  the  eastern 
world,  was  received  in  this  country.  In  the  mean  time,  however,  they 
were  not  forgotten  by  the  Prudential  Committee.  As  the  ordinary  inter 
course  with  India  was  obstructed  by  the  war,  it  became  necessary  to 
establish  a  special  channel,  through  which  communications  and  remit 
tances  might  be  made  with  safety.  For  this  purpose,  the  Committee 
assigned  to  Samuel  Williams,  and  Junius  Smith;,  Esqrs.,  of  London,  and 
to  the  Hon.  John  Herbert  Harrington,  Esq.,  the  Rev.  David  Brown,  D.D. 
and  the  Rev.  William  Carey,  D.  D.,  at  Calcutta,  such  agencies,  as  might 
be  requisite  in  those  places  respectively  for  securing  remittances  to  our 
missionaries,  and  for  furthering  generally  the  objects  of  this  Board.  To 
the  gentlemen  designated  as  agents  at  Calcutta,  was  entrusted,  very  par 
ticularly,  the  application  of  the  means  forwarded  to  India  by  tjiis  Board, 
for  aiding  in  the  translation  and  distribution  of  the  Holy  Scriptures. 

Pursuant  to  arrangements  made  by  the  Committee,  a  remittance  of 
one  thousand  dollars  for  the  support  of  our  missionaries,  and  another  of 
the  same  amount  for  aiding  in  the  translation  and  distribution  of  the 
Scriptures,  were  forwarded  by  the  Treasurer  to  our  agents  in  London  in 
the  month  of  November.  About  the  same  time  fifty  pounds  sterling  were 
remitted  to  the  Rev.  George  Burder,  to  refund  what  had  been  advanced 
from  the  treasury  of  the  London  Missionary  Society,  to  Mr.  Judson, 
when  in  England,  in  1811.  In  February,  another  remittance  was  made 
for  the  support  of  the  missionaries  to  the  amount  of  twenty-two  hundred 
dollars.  Of  the  receipt  in  London  of  these  several  remittances,  the 
Treasurer  has  been  duly  advised;  and  assurances  have  been  received 
from  our  agents  there,  in  terms  very  gratefully  to  be  acknowledged,  of 
their  cheerful  acceptance  of  the  trusts  confided  to  them.  For  the  trans 
lation  of  the  Scriptures,  another  remittance  of  about  thirteen  hundred 
dollars,  (more  than  five  hundred  of  which  were  specially  appropriated  to 
the  repairing  of  the  loss  sustained  by  the  fire  at  the  Mission  House  at 
Serampore,)  was  made  in  May;  and  another  of  about  a  thousand  dol 
lars,  in  July.  Of  the  receipt  of  these  two  remittances,  it  is  not  yet  time 
to  have  received  advice. 

At  the  meeting  of  the  Board  in  1811,  a  sum,  not  exceeding  three  hun- 
dred  dollars,  was  appropriated  to  the  purchasing  of  books  for  the  use  of 
the  missionaries.  As  our  brethren,  when  they  were  fitted  out,  were  fur 
nished  with  but  few  books;  the  Committee  thought  it  important  to  em 
brace  the  earliest  opportunity  of  conveying  to  them  an  additional  supply. 
Accordingly,  as  an  unexpected  opportunity  was  presented  in  November, 
a  purchase  was  made  of  such  books  as  were  supposed  to  be  the  most 
suitable,  to  the  amount  of  about  two  hundred  dollars.  These  books 
were  put  on  board  the  schooner  Alligator  of  Salem,  bound  to  Arracan; 
were  directed  to  our  agents  in  Calcutta,  and  committed,  with  special  in 
structions,  to  the  care  of  the  supercargo,  who  was  also  constituted  an 
agent  for  this  Board.  The  Alligator  sailed  from  Salem  about  the  first  of 
December;  and  by  her,  official  letters  were  foryvarded  from  the  Corres 
ponding  Secretary  and  the  Treasurer,  to  our  missionary  brethren,  com 
municating  to  them  such  advices  and  directions  as  were  deemed  expedi 
ent;  and  to  the  Hon.  Judge  Harrington  and  Drs.  Brown  and  Carey, 
respectfully  soliciting  their  assumption  of  the  agencies  entrusted  to  them, 


1813.  REPORT,  59 

referring  them  to  documents  accompanying  the  letters,  by  which  they 
would  be  made  acquainted  with  the  institution,  design,  and  transactions 
of  this  Board,  and  the  instructions  under  which  our  missionaries  were 
sent  out — and  soliciting  their  good  offices  in  favor  of  the  missionaries, 
especially  in  reference  to  the  difficulties  and  dangers  to  which  they  might 
be  exposed  on  account  of  the  war.  These  letters,  with  leave,  will  be 
submitted  to  the  Board.  From  the  Alligator  no  intelligence  has  been 
received  since  her  departure. 

The  substance  of  the  information  respecting  our  missionaries,  col 
lected  from  the  letters  which  have  been  received,  is  comprised  in  the 
following  statement: 

Our  brethren  were  all  highly  favored  in  their  passages.  The  Lord 
had  them  under  his  gracious  care — kindly  preserved  their  health — ren 
dered  their  situation  on  board  the  ships  agreeable — and  conveyed  them 
in  safety  to  their  destined  port.  Messrs.  Newell  and  Judson,  with  their 
wives,  arrived  at  Calcutta  in  the  Caravan,  on  the  17th  of  June,  and 
Messrs.  Hall,  Nott,  and  Rice,  with  the  wife  of  Mr.  Nott,  in  the  Harmo 
ny,  on  the  8th  of  Angust,  1812.  By  Christian  people  there,  of  different 
religious  denominations,  they  were  received  in  a  manner  the  most  cour 
teous  and  affectionate;  and  their  letters  very  pleasingly  testify  their  deep 
and  grateful  sense  of  the  divine  goodness  to  them,  .and  of  the  cause 
which  they  had  to  "thank  God  and  take  courage." 

Soon  after  their  arrival,  however,  Messrs.  Newell  and  Judson,  received 
an  order  from  the  government,  requiring  them  to  return  to  this  country 
by  the  Caravan;  and  signifying,  that  the  Caravan  would  not  be  allowed 
to  depart  without  them.  By  this  order  they  were  thrown  into  great  per 
plexity  and  distress.  Their  Christian  friends  at  Calcutta  and  Seram- 
pore  entered  with  great  sympathy  into  their  situation;  earnest  solicitations 
were  employed  in  their  behalf  with  the  officers  of  the  government;  and 
special  and  united  prayers  were  offered  up  to  Him  who  reigns  in  Zion, 
and  turns  the  hearts  of  men.  After  some  time  the  order  was  relaxed, 
and  liberty  was  granted  to  the  two  brethren,  to  depart,  by  any  convey 
ance  which  might  offer,  to  any  place,  not  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
East  India  Company.  It  then  became  a  weighty  question  whither 
they  should  go.  Respecting  Birmah,  which  had  been  contemplated 
by  us,  and  by  them,  with  particular  desire  and  raised  hope,  as  the  field 
of  the  mission,  they  had  received  such  information,  as  decisively  to  de 
ter  them  from  attempting  an  establishment  in  any  part  of  that  empire. 
China,  still  farther  east,  they  supposed  to  be  absolutely  closed  against 
them.  Seeing  no  door  open,  or  likely  to  be  opened,  in  countries  east 
ward  of  British  India,  they  had  only  to  turn  their  eyes  westward.  While 
in  this  state  of  anxious  suspense,  they  received  letters  from  their  breth 
ren  of  the  Harmony,  dated  at  the  Isle  of  France,  with  the  intelligence 
that  the  governor  of  that  Island  was  friendly  to  missions,  and  very  de 
sirous  of  having  missionaries  employed  there,  and  in  the  neighboring 
Island  of  Madagascar.  As  the  Isle  of  France,  Bourbon,  and  the  more 
easterly  Island  of  Ceylon,  are  not  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  East 
India  Company;  but  belong  to  the  crown  of  Great  Britain,  and  are  under 
separate  governments;  in  them  the  policy  of  the  East  India  Company 
does  not  prevail.  Messrs.  Newell  and  Judson,  therefore,  at  length  con 
cluded  to  embrace  the  first  opportunity  of  a  passage  to  the  Isle  of 


60  REPORT.  1813. 

France;  considering  that,  should  they  not  find  it  expedient  to  attempt  an 
establishment  either  there,  or  at  Madagascar,  they  would  at  least  be  out 
of  the  reach  of  that  government  which  had  hedged  up  their  way,  and 
at  liberty  to  go  thence  wherever  Providence  might  direct  them. 

Accordingly,  on  the  4th  of  August,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Newell  embarked 
for  the  Isle  of  France,  in  a  vessel  which  could  not  afford  accommoda 
tions  for  any  more  passengers;  and  the  expectation  then  was,  that  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Judson  would  soon  follow  them. 

Four  days  after  the  departure  of  Mr.  Newell,  the  Harmony  with 
Messrs.  Hall,  Nott  and  Rice,  arrived  at  Calcutta.  After  going  through 
a  process,  similar  to  that  to  which  the  two  brethren  before  them  had  been 
subjected,  these  brethren  came  also  to  a  similar  determination.  They 
were  providentially,  however,  detained  at  Calcutta,  until  the  latter  part 
of  November. 

This  interval  of  delay  was  marked  with  some  changes,  which  should 
have  been  little  to  be  expected,  and  which  cast  a  new  cloud  upon  the 
affairs  of  the  mission.  On  the  27th  of  August,  Mr.  Judson  addressed  a 
note  to  the  Baptist  Missionaries  at  Serampore,  informing  them  that  he 
and  Mrs.  Judson  had  changed  their  sentiments  on  the  subject  of  baptism, 
and  signifying  their  desire  to  be  immersed.  Accordingly,  on  the  first 
Sabbath  in  September,  they  were  immersed.  In  his  note,  Mr.  Judson 
says,  "''It  is  now  about  four  months  since  I  took  the  subject  into  serious 
and  prayerful  consideration."  Mr.  Newell,  however,  who  was  his  com 
panion  on  the  passage  to  Calcutta,  and  after  his  arrival  there  until  within 
about  three  weeks  of  the  date  of  this  note,  appears  to  have  left  him  with 
out  any  knowledge  of  the  change.  His  other  brethren,  also,  who  were 
at  Calcutta,  when  he  went  from  that  place  to  Serampore,  on  the  27th  of 
August,  appear  to  have  been  unapprized  of  the  object  of  his  visit  there, 
and  to  have  received ,  their  first  intelligence  on'  the  subject  two  days 
afterwards  from  Dr.  Marshman. 

In  a  joint  letter,  written  about  twenty  days  after  Mr.  Judson's  im 
mersion,  his  brethren,  referring  to  the  fact,  say,  "In  consequence  of  this 
trying  event,  it  has  appeared  to  him  and  to  us,  and  to  those  with  whom 
we  have  conversed,  expedient  that  we  should  separate  and  labor  in  dif 
ferent  fields."  This  letter  had  the  signature  of  Mr.  Rice.  About  four 
weeks  after  this  a  letter  was  written  by  brethren  Hall  and  Nott,  in  which 
they  say,  "You  will  be  surprised  to  receive  a  letter  written  by  us  alone: 
we  are  surprised  and  distressed  that  it  is  so.  Brother  Rice  has  been  led 
to  change  his  sentiments  on  the  subject  of  baptism;  and  brother  Judson 
and  he  will  probably  attempt  a  mission  to  Java.  What  the  Lord  means 
by  thus  dividing  us  in  sentiment,  and  separating  us  from  each  other,  we 
cannot  tell.  This  we  know,  the  Lord  seeth  not  as  man  seeth;  and  it  ill 
becomes  us  to  be  dissatisfied  with  what  he  does.  We  hope  and  pray  that 
these  unexpected  things  may  not  damp  the  missionary  spirit  which  has 
been  kindled,  but  that  it  may  burn  with  a  brighter  and  purer  flame." 
Mr.  Rice,  in  a  letter  of  the  same  date,  professes  to  have  examined  the 
subject,  "with  prayerfulness,  and  in  the  fear  of  God,  and  with  no  small 
impression  of  the  delicacy  and  high  responsibility  of  his  situation." 

Aware  of  the  fallibility  of  the  human  mind,  and  of  the  frailty  even  of 
good  men,  the  Prudential  Committee  have  no  disposition  to  impeach  the 
sincerity  of  these  two  brethren.  It  cannot,  however,  but  be  regarded 


1813.  REPORT.  61 

with  regret,  if  they  had  not,  "with  prayerfulness  and  in  the  fear  of  God," 
examined  that  subject,;  before  so  late  a  day: — before  they  assumed  en 
gagements  of  so  high  and  responsible  a  character; — before  they  were 
placed  in  circumstances  rendering  it  nearly  impossible  for  them  to  pre 
serve  an  equable  state  of  mind,  while  examining  as  doubtful,  a  question 
which  ought  long  before  to  have  been  settled  with  them,  and  in  regard 
to  which  a  change  of  sentiments  would  entirely  change  their  relations, 
and  open  to  them  new  and  very  different  prospects, — before,  in  fine,  they 
were  in  a  situation,  peculiarly  exposing  them,  as  the  case  might  be,  to 
mistake  impulses  for  arguments,  and  an  act,  in  which  there  would  be 
"a  shew  of  wisdom,  in  will-worship  and  humility,"  for  an  indispensable 
effort  of  Christian  self-denial.  Nevertheless  the  foundation  of  God 
standcth  sure:  and  on  this  foundation,  the  instances  of  instability,  which 
we  lament  here  to  record,  but  against  which  no  human  foresight  could 
provide,  should  lead  us  more  entirely  to  repose  our  hopes.  They  shew 
us  that  missionaries  are  but  men;  and  forcibly  inculcate  the  importance 
of  great  caution,  and  great  fidelity  in  examination,  on  the  part,  not  only 
of  this  Board,  but  of  all  who  would  offer  themselves  for  the  missionary 
service.  Instead,  however,  of  inducing  discouragement,  they  should 
rouse  the  holy  zeal,  and  quicken  the  pious  exertions,  of  all  the  friends  of 
truth;  and  should  they,  in  the  wisdom  of  God,  be  so  overruled,  as  to 
bring  an  accession  of  strength  to  the  missionary  cause,  the  event  would 
be  joyous. 

During  their  stay  at  Calcutta,  Messrs.  Hall  and  Nott  obtained  such 
information,  and  such  views  of  probable  events,  as  induced  them  to 
relinquish  the  design  of  returning  to  the  Isle  of  France,  in  the  hope 
that  they  might  yet  find  impracticable  to  establish  themselves  at  Bombay, 
Surat,  or  some  other  eligible  place  in  India.  Early  in  November,  there 
fore,  they  engaged  a  passage  for  Bombay,  obtained  their  passport  from 
the  police,  and  were  contemplating  their  prospects  with  high  satisfac 
tion  and  encouragement.  But  here,  on  a  sudden,  another  trial  was 
interposed.  After  their  effects  were  on  board  for  Bombay,  they  had 
notice  from  the  police,  that  it  was  the  pleasure  of  the  government  to  have 
them  conveyed  to  England,  and  that  a  passage  would  be  provided  for 
them  in  the  fleet  then  under  despatch.  They  were  greatly  perplexed; 
but,  as  their  passports  were  not  revoked,  they  at  length  concluded,  that 
they  might  be  warranted  in  going  on  board  the  ship  in  which  they 
were  regularly  entered  as  passengers,  and  had  paid  their  passage,  and 
await  the  event.  Accordingly,  on  the  20th  of  November,  they  went  on 
board.  The  ship  remained  in  the  river,  a  little  below  Calcutta,  five  or 
six  days;  during  which  they  were  not  without  fear  of  being  ordered  back 
by  the  officers  of  the  police,  who  well  knew  where  they  were;  but  on 
the  27th,  the  ship  dropped  down  the  river,  and  on  the  29th  she  was  out 
at  sea.  This  was  the  date  of  our  last  intelligence  from  them.  Under 
this  date,  Mr.  Nott  writes,  "We  are  now  past  all  the  danger  which  we 
feared.  As  far  as  we  can  judge,  if  we  are  favored  with  good  weather, 
we  shall  have  a  pleasant  passage.  We  hope  soon  to  have  a  home.  If 
we  do  not  go  to  Bombay,  we  shall  either  stay  at  Ceylon,  or  go  to  some 
place  where  we  shall  certainly  stay." 

About  the  time  that  these  two  brethren  left  Calcutta,  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Judson  and  Mr.  Rice  took  passage  thence  for  the  Isle  of  France,  where 


62  REPORT.  1813. 

they  arrived  about  the  middle  of  January.  On  the  15th  of  March,  Mr. 
Rice  took  passage  in  a  Portuguese  vessel  for  the  Brazils,  with  a  view 
to  return  to  this  country  on  special  business,  deemed  by  himself  and 
Mr.  Judson  important  to  their  contemplated  separate  mission.  He  has 
just  reached  this  place  from  New  York;  and  from  him  the  Board  may 
probably  receive  some  further  communications.  He  left  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Judson  at  the  Isle  of  France,  waiting  for  a  passage  to  Penang,  or  Prince 
of  Wales's  Island,  where  they  intended,  if  practicable,  to  effectuate  an 
establishment. 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Newell's  passage  from  Calcutta  to  the  Isle  of  France 
was  long,  perilous,  and  distressing.  After  leaving  Calcutta,  on  the  4th 
of  August,  they  were  driven  about  in  the  Bay  of  Bengal  for  a  month,  in 
which  time  Mrs.  Newell  was  sick  with  a  fever.  On  the  5th  of  Septem 
ber  the  ship  put  in  at  Coringa  in  distress.  Thence  they  sailed  on  the 
19th  of  the  same  month,  and  arrived  at  the  Isle  of  France  in  the  fore 
part  of  November. 

About  three  weeks  before  their  arrival,  they  were  called  to  the  mourn 
ful  office  of  consigning  to  the  waves  an  infant  daughter,  whom  but  five 
days  before,  they  had  joyfully  received  at  the  hand  of  God,  and  whom 
with  mingled  vows  and  tears,  they  had  solemnly  devoted  to  him  in  bap 
tism.  Soon  after  this,  symptoms  of  a  consumption  began  to  shew  them 
selves  in  Mrs.  Newell.  The  disease  baffled  all  medical  skill;  and  on  the 
30th  of  November  at  Port  Louis  in  the  Isle  of  France,  she  fell  asleep. — 
"During  the  whole  of  her  sickness,"  says  her  mourning  husband,  "she 
talked  in  the  most  familiar  manner  of  death,  and  the  glory  that  was  to 
follow."  She  wished  it  to  be  distinctly  made  known  to  her  friends,  that 
"she  had  never  regretted  leaving  her  native  land  for  the  cause  of  Christ." 
"God  calls  me  away,"  said  she,  "before  we  have  entered  on  the  work 
of  the  mission;  but  the  case  of  David  affords  me  comfort:  I  have  had  it 
in  my  heart  to  do  what  1  could  for  the  heathen,  and  I  hope  God  will 
accept  me."  When  told  that  probably  she  would  not  live  through 
another  day;  "O  joyful  news,"  said  she,  "I  long  to  depart." 

Precious  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord  is  the  death  of  his  saints.  Precious 
to  the  hearts  of  many  is  the  memory  of  this  amiable  and  excellent  woman. 
Her  superior  and  cultivated  mind,  her  enlarged  and  active  benevolence, 
her  solid  and  elevated  piety,  her  steady  and  cheerful  fortitude,  her  en 
lightened  and  sacred  devotedness  to  the  missionary  cause,  adorned  with 
all  the  endearing  virtues  of  the  female  character,  had  raised  her  high 
in  Christian  estimation,  and  given  no  ordinary  promise  of  distinguished 
usefulness.  But  HE,  from  whom  all  these  excellences  proceeded,  and 
to  whom  they  were  consecrated,  best  knew  how  long  to  employ  them  in 
this  world,  and  when  to  raise  their  possessor  to  perfection  for  higher 
employment  in  a  better.  Mrs.  Newell  neither  lived  to  herself,  nor  died 
to  herself.  Her  witness,  we  believe,  is  in  heaven,  and  her  record  on 
high;  and  we  trust  that  her  fervent  prayers,  her  readiness  to  forsake  all 
for  the  service  of  Christ,  and  her  exemplary  life  and  death,  will  not  be 
lost  to  her  friends,  or  to  that  sacred  cause  to  which  she  was  so  ardently 
devoted. 

Her  bereaved  husband  feels  her  removal  as  an  unspeakable  loss;  yet 
appears  to  bow  to  the  dispensation  with  a  truly  resigned  spirit,  and  to  be 
sustained  under  it  with  the  consolations  of  God.  He  will  be  remember- 


1813.  REPORT.  63 

ed  by  this  Board  in  his  affliction,  with  tender  sympathy  and  with  fervent 
prayers;  and  HE,  whose  servant  he  is,  and  who  will  never  be  unmindful 
of  him,  knows  how  to  make  his  trials  redound  to  the  furtherance  of  the 
great  design  in  which  he  is  engaged,  and  to  work  for  him  a  far  more 
exceeding  and  eternal  weight  of  glory. 

On  the  24th  of  February  Mr.  Newell  left  the  Isle  of  France,  in  a  ves 
sel  bound  to  Bombay;  intending  to  join  his  brethren  Hall  and  Nott  there, 
or  at  Ceylon,  as  Providence  should  direct.  i 

In  regard  to  the  difficulties,  experienced  by  our  brethren  from  the 
government  at  Calcutta,  it  may  be  proper  to  state,  that  they  do  not  ap 
pear  to  have  been  in  any  respect  peculiar  to  American  missionaries. 
They  were  only  such  as  English  missionaries  have  had  to  encounter; 
and  they  proceeded  from  the  general  policy  of  the  East  India  Company, 
which,  on  the  principle  of  mercantile  monopoly,  goes,  excepting  in 
cases  of  connivance,  to  exclude  from  their  territories  all  persons,  of 
whatever  profession,  not  licensed  by  the  Directors  at  home.  To  this 
policy  the  Directors  of  the  London  missionary  Society,  in  their  Annual 
Report,  last  May,  have  repeated  reference.  One  of  their  Missionaries, 
a  Mr.  Thompson,  on  his  way  to  the  Missionary  station  at  Belhary,  ar 
rived  in  March,  1812,  at  Madras;  where,  "when  it  was  found  that  he 
came  from  England  without  a  license  from  the  East  India  Company,35  he 
received  an  order  from  the  superintendant  of  the  police  as  follows: 

"REV.  SIR, — I  am  directed  to  inform  you,  that  the  Honorable  the 
Governor  in  Council  is  precluded,  by  the  orders  of  the  Supreme  Gov 
ernment,  from  permitting  you  to  reside  in  any  place  under  this  Pres 
idency;  you  will,  therefore,  return  to  the  Isle  of  France,  or  to  Europe, 
by  the  first  opportunity." 

No  revocation  of  this  order  could  be  obtained.  But  Mr.  Thompson 
in  a  letter,  says,  "I  have  nothing  to  complain  of  the  government  here, 
for  they  act  agreeably  to  the  letter  of  their  instructions;  nor  of  the  gov 
ernment  at  home,  as,  when  the  Charter  was  given  to  the  Company,  there 
was  little  regard  to  such  an  accession  of  territory,  and  it  had  no  view  to 
the  religion  of  the  people:  and  when  the  Toleration  Act  was  passed,  the 
Parliament  did  not  anticipate  that  the  British  dominions  would  be  so  ex 
tensive,  or  that  Christians  would  feel  it  their  duty  to  communicate  the 
gospel  to  foreign  lands,  and  therefore  no  provision  was  made  for  such  a 
purpose."  In  reference  to  the  case  of  Mr.  Thompson,  the  Directors  of 
the  Missionary  Society,  say,  "It  is  impossible  not  to  feel,  on  this  recital, 
the  most  painful  regret,  that  regulations,  which  were  originally  made  for 
commercial  purposes  only,  should  now  be  employed  to  impede  the  progress 
of  Christianity,  or  place  under  the  control  of  the  East  India  Company  a 
subject  so  intimately  connected  with  the  present  and  eternal  happiness 
of  many  millions  of  the  human  race.  For  the  removal  of  such  unright 
eous  restrictions,  the  Society  applied  to  his  Majesty's  ministers;  has 
petitioned  the  Legislature;  and  will  continue  importunately  to  address 
the  Throne  of  Grace." 

As  the  Charter  of  the  East  India  Company  is  about  expiring,  petitions 
not  only  from  the  London  Missionary  Society,  but  from  other  bodies, 
and  meetings  composed  of  highly  respectable  members  of  the  Established 
Church,  clergymen  and  laymen,  as  well  as  of  other  religious  denomina 
tions,  and  in  the  different  parts  of  Great  Britain,  have  been  poured  in 


64  REPORT.  1813. 

upon  the  Legislature;  praying,  that,  in  the  new  Charter,  there  may  be 
some  effectual  provision  in  favor  of  the  propagation  of  the  Gospel  in  the 
Company's  extensive  and  populous  territories.  If  these  petitions  have 
failed,  or  shall  ultimately  fail  of  success,  the  failure  will  be  greatly  la 
mented  by  the  true  friends  of  the  gospel  and  of  the  best  interests  of 
mankind,  both  in  Great  Britain  and  in  this  country. 

The  information,  which  our  missionaries  obtained  at  Calcutta  respect 
ing  Birmah,  and  by  which  they  were  deterred  from  proceeding  thither, 
was  probably  more  particularly  detailed,  in  letters  which  have  not  yet 
arrived,  than  in  those  which  have  been  received.  It  appears,  however, 
that  war,  both  civil  and  foreign,  was  raging  in  that  empire;  and  that  the 
missionaries,  who  had  been  sent  thither  from  London,  and  the  Baptist 
Missionary  Societies,  had  been  obliged  to  leave  the  country.  These  are 
strong  facts;  and  doubtless  will  appear  to  this  Board  sufficient  to  justify 
our  brethren,  in  relinquishing,  for  the  present,  a  design  which  had  been 
entertained  with  great  fervency  of  hope,  and  in  regard  to  which  no  small 
disappointment  is  felt.  The  committee,  however,  do  not  abandon  the 
hope,  that  a  door  may  yet  be  opened,  at  no  very  distant  period,  for  the 
propagation  of  the  gospel  in  Birmah. 

Though  disappointed  in  regard  to  the  Birman  empire,  and  obstructed 
in  British  India,  our  missionaries,  at  their  last  dates,  were  by  no  means 
discouraged.  They  still  had  hope  of  obtaining  footing  at  Bombay,  or 
Surat,  in  a  way  similar  to  that  in  which  missionaries  had  obtained  foot 
ing,  notwithstanding  the  difficulties  always  presented  in  different  parts 
of  India.  And  should  they  fail  there,  they  had  assurance  of  being  al 
lowed  to  establish  a  mission  at  Ceylon;  where  a  field  of  no  small  extent 
or  promise  would  be  open  to  them.  Of  this  Island,  as  a  field  for  mis 
sionary  labors,  the  Directors  of  the  London  Missionary  Society,  in  their 
last  report,  give  a  very  favorable  representation.  A  gentleman  resident 
there,  as  quoted  by  the  Directors,  says,1  "I  hope  the  Missionary  Society, 
and  all  other  societies  for  promoting  the  glorious  cause,  will  strain  every 
nerve  to  send  some  able  teachers  to  this  country.  Never  was  such  a 
harvest  as  is  here  prepared  for  the  reapers." 

Our  missionaries  mention,  in  very  grateful  terms,  the  courtesy,  hos 
pitality,  and  generosity,  which  they  experienced  from  many  persons  at 
Calcutta,  Serampore,  and  Port  Louis.  At  Calcutta,  in  addition  to  va 
rious  other  acts  of  liberality,  collections  were  made  for  them,  in  money, 
of  upwards  of  seven  hundred  rupees — more  than  three  hundred  dollars. 
For  these  collections,  they  express  very  particular  obligations  to  the  Rev. 
Mr.  Thomason,  an  Episcopal  clergyman,  who  on  all  occasions  had  acted 
towards  them  the  part  of  a  Christian  and  a  friend.  And  when  Mr. 
Newell  left  Calcutta  for  the  Isle  of  France,  he  had  a  letter  of  credit, 
from  Dr.  Carey  to  a  house  in  the  latter  place,  to  be  used,  in  case  of  ne 
cessity,  until  he  should  receive  from  us  the  means  of  repayment. 

The  Prudential  Committee  have  not  lost  sight  of  the  design  of  this 
Board,  respecting  a  mission  to  the  Iroquois,  or  Caghnawaga  Indians. 
It  is  a  design  peculiarly  near  to  their  hearts;  but  they  have  to  lament, 
that,  on  account  of  the  war,  it  cannot  at  present  be  carried  into  effect. 
May  the  God  of  mercy  grant,  that  the  present  obstructions  may  soon  be 
removed,  and  a  door  yet  be  opened  for  the  Gospel  to  be  imparted  to  our 
pagan  brethren  of  the  wilderness,  whose  claims  for  commiseration  are 


1813.  REPORT.  65 

most  unequivocal  and  affecting;  and  in  regard  to  whom,  before  the  great 
Parent  of  all,  a  responsibility  the  most  awful  rests  upon  the  people  of 
these  States. 

Messrs.  Richards  and  Warren,  who  for  two  years  have  been  under  the 
particular  patronage  of  this  Board,  soon  after  they  had  closed  their 
studies,  a  year  ago,  at  the  Theological  Institution,  went,  under  the  di 
rection  of  the  Prudential  Committee,  to  Philadelphia,  for  advancement 
in  medical  science.  They  have  been  in  that  city  about  ten  months;  and 
have  there  received  marks  of  courtesy  and  liberality,  which  are  mention 
ed  by  them  in  terms  of  fervent  gratitude,  and  which  claim  the  grateful 
acknowledgments  of  this  Board.  From  regard  to  the  service  to  which 
they  are  devoted,  they  have  been  admitted,  gratuitously,  to  an  entire 
course  of  lectures  in  the  celebrated  Medical  Department  of  the  Penn 
sylvania  University,  and,  recently,  have  been  placed  in  very  eligible 
situations,  one  in  the  Pennsylvania  Hospital,  and  the  other  in  the  Phila 
delphia  Almshouse — situations  not  only  exempting  them  from  a  princi 
pal  part  of  the  expenses  of  living,  but  affording  them  advantages  for 
medical  improvement,  not  exceeded,  probably,  by  any  in  the  United 
States.  Besides  attending  to  their  medical  studies,  they  have  been  em 
ployed,  for  a  considerable  part  of  the  time,  by  the  Missionary  Society 
"in  Philadelphia,  and  have  performed  jointly,  in  the  city  and  vicinity, 
the  duties  of  one  missionary:  thus  favoring  the  funds  of  this  Board, 
improving  themselves  as  preachers,  and  doing  good,  we  devoutly  trust, 
to  the  souls  of  many.  They  will  be  ready  for  our  service  abroad,  when 
ever  it  shall  be  judged  expedient  to  send  them. 

Notwithstanding  the  embarrassments  of  the  times,  the  liberality  of  the 
Christian  public  towards  the  objects  of  this  Board  has  been  such,  in  the 
course  of  the  year,  as  highly  redounds  to  the  praise  of  Divine  grace. 
Our  brethren  and  friends  in  the  Auxiliary  Societies  in  the  different 
parts  of  our  country,  have  exerted  themselves  with  very  exemplary  and 
animating  zeal,  and  are  entitled  to  the  most  affectionate  and  grateful  re 
cognition  on  this  anniversary.  The  donations  to  the  Board  have  been 
published  as  they  were  received.  The  amount  received  from  Sept.  1, 
1812,  to  August  31,  1813,  exceeds  eleven  thousand  dollars,  as  will  ap 
pear  more  particularly  by  the  Treasurer's  annual  accounts.  Several 
Auxiliary  Foreign  Mission  Societies  have  been  formed  within  the  year 
past;  but  the  exact  number  cannot  be  stated,  as  it  is  frequently  some 
months  after  these  societies  are  formed  before  authentic  information  is 
received  from  them. 

In  the  close  of  this  Report,  the  Prudential  Committee  would  deliber 
ately  say,  that,  in  a  general  review,  they  see  no  reason  for  discourage 
ment,  or  for  a  remission  of  activity,  on  the  part  of  this  Board  or  its 
friends;  but  abundant  cause  of  thankfulness,  and  increased  exertion. 
If,  when  we  engaged  in  our  great  design,  we  were  not  prepared  for 
trials — if  we  did  not  lay  our  account  for  occurrences  apparently  adverse, 
and  calling  for  the  utmost  firmness  of  faith,  steadiness  of  purpose,  and 
energy  of  action:  we  had  profited  but  little  by  the  experience  of  ages, 
had  observed  to  little  purpose  the  unvaried  course  of  Divine  dispensa 
tions,  and  were  but  ill  qualified  for  an  undertaking  of  this  arduous  and 
momentous  kind.  Hitherto  our  trials  have  been  comparatively  light;  and 
our  encouragements  many  and  great.  It  is  only  three  years  since  the 
9 


66  REPORT.  1813. 

first  meeting  of  this  Board,  then  only  a  voluntary  association,  feeble, 
destitute  of  funds,  and  unassured  of  any  adequate  patronage.  It  is  not 
time  to  have  achieved  much  in  the  pagan  world:  if  any  thing  has  been 
done  in  the  way  of  preparation — in  giving  stability  and  efficiency  to  the 
institution — in  gaining  the  attentio^-and  favor  of  the  Christian  public  to 
the  design,  obtaining  the  requisite  funds  for  its  support,  and  devising 
and  maturing  plans  for  carrying  it  into  effect; — we  have  not  labored  in 
vain,  but  may  reasonably  hope  to  reap  in  due  time.  That  the  heathen 
world  is  to  be  converted  to  Christ  is  as  certain,  as  that  the  word  of  God 
is  true:  that  this  is  to  be  effected  by  the  instrumentality  of  Christians  is 
as  evident,  as  the  Divine  institution  of  the  Christian  ministry  is  unques 
tionable:  that  the  time  for  its  accomplishment  is  near,  both  the  word  and 
the  providence  of  God  unequivocally  declare.  Preparations  for  this  great 
event  have  been  commenced  upon  a  vast  scale;  and,  amidst  the  porten 
tous  commotions  of  the  world,  are  advancing  with  astonishing  constan 
cy  and  celerity.  Not  to  discern  the  signs  of  the  times,  were  a  proof  of 
most  deplorable  blindness;  not  to  hail  with  grateful  joy  the  advance 
of  HIM  to  whom  the  kingdom  of  the  whole  earth  belongs,  were  a  fear 
ful  indication  of  inward  hostility  to  his  cause;  not  to  be  zealously  en 
gaged  in  the  great  design  of  bringing  all  nations  under  his  benign  do 
minion,  were  to  betray  a  deadness  of  heart,  an  unbelief,  a  devotedness- 
to  the  world,  or  a  pusillanimity,  unworthy  the  Christian  name.  With 
humble  reliance  on  Him,  may  this  Board  be  steadfast  and  immovable, 
always  abounding  in  the  work  of  the  Lord. 


PECUNIARY  ACCOUNTS. 

The  American  Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions  in  account  current  with  Jeremiah 
Evarts,  their  Treasurer,  Dr. 

To  cash  paid  from  Sept.  1,  1812  to  Aug.  31,  1813,  in  conformity  to  orders  from 
No.  25  to  No.  52  inclusive,  signed  by  the  clerk  of  the  Prudential  Committee, 
for  expenses  incurred  in  the  prosecution  of  the  objects  of  the  Board   $8,603  05 
To  losses  by  counterfeit  bills  received  in  donations         ...  8  00 — 8,611  05 

To  balance  carried  to  the  credit  of  new  account,  Sept.  1,  1813     -        -        -          8,077  59 

16,688  64 
Contra  Cr. 
By  balance  brought  to  the  credit  of  new  account,  Sept.  1,  1812,  as  appears  by 

the  Auditor's  certificate  of  Oct.  8,  1812 $5,252  46 

By  cash  received  in  donations,  as  particularly  published  in  the  Panoplist,  from 

Oct.  1812  to  Sept.  1813 $11,284  90 

By  avails  of  a  dollar,  which  proved  to  be  genuine,   though    supposed   to  be 
counterfeit,  and  charged  as  such  in  last  year's  account                                    94 
By  interest  on  money  lent 150  34 151  28 

$16,688  64 


1813.  ADDRESS     TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  67 

ADDRESS    TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC. 

OCTOBER,    1813. 

IN  behalf  of  the  American  Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Mis 
sions,  the  subscribers,  a  committee  for  the  purpose,  beg  leave  to  solicit 
the  attention  of  the  Christian  public  to  the  cause  in  which  the  Board  is 
engaged,  and  for  the  promotion  of  which  it  was  originally  instituted,  and 
has  been  since  incorporated.  We  are  not  backward  to  state,  at  the  com 
mencement  of  this  address,  that  we  shall  lay  before  the  reader,  with 
great  satisfaction,  some  of  the  facts  and  reasons  on  which  our  attach 
ment  to  this  cause  is  founded,  and  which,  we  are  sure,  will  not  fail  to 
commend  themselves  to  every  enlightened  conscience,  and  to  make  an 
impression  on  every  pious  heart.  The  cause  itself  is  transcendently 
glorious,  and  deserving  of  the  warmest  approbation  of  all  men,  however 
imperfectly,  or  feebly,  we  may  state  its  claims.  To  doubt,  or  hesitate,  in 
regard  to  the  urgency  of  these  claims,  and  the  duty  of  keeping  them  hab 
itually  in  view,  would  be  equally  repugnant  to  our  feelings,  and  dishonor 
able  to  our  profession  as  Christians.  Can  it  be  a  matter  of  doubt,  or  of 
indifference,  to  any  man,  who  has  the  Scriptures  in  his  hands,  and  has 
profited  by  perusing  them,  whether  Christianity  is  to  become,  at  some 
future  day,  the  religion  of  all  mankind? — whether  its  transforming  power 
is  universally  to  influence  the'hearts  and  the  lives  of  men? — whether  the 
word  of  God  is  to  be  read,  understood,  and  obeyed,  by  the  nations  now 
sunk  in  idolatry  and  ignorance? — whether  this  grand  consummation  is 
to  be  effected  by  the  means  which  men  are  voluntarily  to  supply? — or 
whether  there  is  an  imperious  necessity  that  Christians  should  zealously 
co-operate  in  this  great  work  of  the  Lord? 

The  object  of  the  Board  is  one — the  promulgation  of  Christianity 
among  the  heathen.  The  means,  by  which  this  object  is  designed  to  be 
effected,  are  of  two  kinds; — the  publication  and  distribution  of  the  Scrip 
tures  in  the  different  languages  of  the  nations;  and  the  support  of  faith 
ful  missionaries  to  explain,  exemplify,  and  impress  on  the  mind,  the 
great  truths  which  the  Scriptures  contain. 

In  regard  to  the  distribution  of  the  Scriptures,  the  Board  is  in  fact, 
though  not  in  name,  a  FOREIGN  BIBLE  SOCIETY;  and,  under  this  aspect, 
we  earnestly  request  that  its  advantages  may  be  considered  by  all,  who 
would  joyfully  place  the  Bible  in  the  hands  of  Pagans.  Confined  in  its 
operations  to  no  part  of  the  globe  in  exclusion  of  other  parts,  the  Board 
can  extend  the  sovereign  balm  wherever  there  are  spiritual  maladies  to 
be  healed;  enjoying  the  benefit  of  established  plans  of  correspondence 
and  co-operation,  the  result  of  its  proceedings  can  be  more  prompt  than 
could  otherwise  be  expected;  and  having  its  attention  long  fixed  on  the 
most  promising  fields  of  exertion,  its  agents  will  acquire  a  facility  of  ac 
tion,  which  can  never  be  applied  to  single,  insulated,  and  sudden  efforts. 
Through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Board,  every  charitable  person,  how 
ever  retired  or  obscure,  has  it  in  his  power  to  send  the  Bible  to  those 
very  heathens,  than  whom  none  of  the  human  race  can  need  it  more,  and 
on  whom  there  are  peculiar  encouragements  to  bestow  it.  A  known, 


C&  ADDRESS    TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  1813. 

regular,  uninterrupted  channel  will  be  kept  open,  (with  the  blessing  of 
Providence,)  through  which  the  streams  of  American  beneficence  may 
flow  into  the  centre  of  the  Pagan  world,  and  contribute  to  fertilize  re 
gions  which  have  long  been  dreary  and  barren  of  all  moral  good.  And 
shall  not  these  streams  increase,  till  they  form  a  mighty  river,  flowing 
with  a  steady  and  resistless  current,  and  bearing  on  its  bosom  the  im 
mortal  hopes  of  restored  Jews,  and  the  imperishable  riches  of  converted 
Gentiles?  Will  not  many  of  our  countrymen  esteem  it  a  high  privilege, 
that  their  contributions,  at  whatever  season  bestowed,  may,  in  a  few 
months  and  without  care  or  trouble  to  themselves,  be  so  applied,  even  in 
the  remote  eastern  hemisphere,  as  to  commence  a  series  of  good  effects, 
which  shall  never  end,  and  the  number  and  magnitude  of  which  no  hu 
man  powers  can  calculate?  A  single  Bible  given  to  a  Hindoo  or  a  Cey- 
lonese,  may  be  the  means  of  enlightening  a  family,  of  arousing  the  atten 
tion  of  a  neighborhood,  of  withdrawing  a  multitude  from  idolatry,  leadiog 
them  to  procure  the  Scriptures  for  themselves,  and  turning  them  from 
darkness  to  light,  and  from  the  power  of  Satan  to  the  living  God. 

It  is  a  fact  highly  gratifying  to  the  Board,  that  the  liberality  of  Chris 
tians  has  devolved  on  them  the  duty  of  remitting,  in  the  course  of  the 
year  past,  bills  of  exchange  to  the  amount  of  about  eight  hundred  and 
sixty  pounds  sterling,  to  aid  in  the  translation  and  distribution  of  the 
Scriptures  in  Asia;  a  sum  which  will  produce  as  much  in  India,  ac 
cording  to  the  present  rates  of  exchange  from  London  to  Calcutta,  as 
would  be  produced  by  remitting  four  thousand  dollars  in  specie,  after  de 
ducting  from  that  sum  the  peace  rates  of  freight  and  insurance.  Though 
it  is  a  pleasing  reflection,  that  some  part  of  this  money  may  even  now 
have  been  expended,  and  contributed  to  supply  the  spiritual  wants  of 
numbers,  yet  we  are  not  to  forget,  that  a  few  thousand  Bibles  cannot 
suffice  for  many  millions  of  inhabitants;  that  the  demand  for  the  word  of 
God  will  be  more  urgent,  the  more  a  knowledge  of  it  is  disseminated, 
and  that  the  united  efforts  of  all  Christians,  in  all  parts  of  the  world, 
are  demanded,  and  will  be  demanded  for  many  years  to  come,  in  this 
single  branch  of  charity. 

We  might  state  a  multitude  of  facts,  all  tending  to  prove,  that  the  en 
couragement  to  distribute  the  Scriptures  in  Asia  is  continually  increas 
ing.  From  the  journal  kept  by  Peter,  a  native  missionary  of  the  cross, 
it  appears,  that  throughout  a  long  journey  in  Orissa,  a  part  of  Hindostan, 
performed  in  the  autumn  of  1811,  he  found  great  numbers  of  persons, 
who  heard  him  with  attention  when  he  preached,  and  were  very  anxious 
to  receive  from  him  copies  of  the  Scriptures.  In  stating  his  labors  on  a 
particular  Lord's  day,  he  says,  "  Some  sat  down  with  me  for  two  hours 
at  a  time,  reading  the  New  Testament  and  hearing  it  explained.  Others 
earnestly  entreated  for  a  Testament,  or  a  tract;  and  when  they  had  ob 
tained  their  request  seemed  as  glad  as  if  they  had  gained  some  rich 
prize."  "AtBhudruka,  as  well  as  in  the  way  to  it,"  says  the  same  writer, 
"I  preached  Jesus  to  multitudes.  The  people  seemed  so  eager  for  books, 
that  I  think  I  could  have  distributed  a  thousand,  if  I  had  had  them."  On 
a  subsequent  day,  he  writes  thus:  "I  sat  from  twelve  o'clock  till  seven  in 
the  evening,  reading  and  explaining  the  word  of  God.  I  gave  away 
many  tracts;  also  two  Testaments  to  two  very  sensible  Ooriyas,  [i.  e.  na 
tives  of  Orissa,]  one  of  whom  appeared  very  serious  and  attentive,  and, 


1813.  ADDRESS    TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  69 

after  I  had  departed  to  my  lodgings,  came  and  inquired  very  particularly 
about  the  way  of  salvation." 

Two  other  missionaries  write  thus:  "The  poor  heathen  are  much  sur 
prised  to  hear  the  gracious  news  of  eternal  life  through  Jesus  Christ  our 
Lord.  You  would  admire  to  see  with  what  gladness  they  accept  the 
Orissa  Testaments  at  our  hands.  They  say  they  never  thought  the  Fir- 
ingees*  had  such  a  good  book!  We  have  distributed  a  considerable 
number  of  Testaments  in  the  country,  and  have  had  the  pleasure  of  send 
ing  one  to  Pooree,  and  the  Brahmins  of  Jugunnath  [Juggernaut]  receiv 
ed  it  gladly.  They  wanted  to  pay  for  it;  but  we  strictly  charged  the 
bearer  to  present  it  without  taking  any  thing  for  it." 

Important,  however,  as  the  distribution  of  the  Scriptures  among  the 
heathen,  in  their  own  languages,  is  held  to  be  by  us,  and  by  the  Christian 
public  generally,  it  should  never  be  forgotten,  that  the  preaching  of  the 
gospel  in  every  part  of  the  earth,  is  indispensable  to  the  general  conver 
sion  of  mankind.  Though  the  Scriptures  alone  have,  in  many  individ 
ual  cases,  been  made  the  instrument  of  regeneration,  yet  we  have  no 
account  of  any  very  extensive  diffusion  of  Christianity,  unless  where  the 
truths  of  the  Scriptures  have  been  preached.  Were  the  heathen  gener 
ally  to  receive  the  Scriptures,  and  anxious  to  learn  divine  truth,  they 
would,  like  the  Ethiopian  eunuch,  apply  for  instruction  to  those  who  had 
been  previously  acquainted  with  the  same  Scriptures;  and  when  asked 
if  they  understood  what  they  had  read,  would  reply,  How  can  we,  except 
some  man  should  guide  us?  The  distribution  of  the  Bible  excites  inquiry, 
and  often  leads  those  who  receive  that  precious  book  to  attend  public 
worship  in  the  sanctuary.  But  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  is,  after  all, 
the  grand  means  appointed  by  Infinite  Wisdom  for  the  conversion  and 
salvation  of  men.  Without  this,  the  Scriptures,  however  liberally  dis 
tributed,  will  have  comparatively  little  effect  among  any  people,  whether 
Pagan  or  nominally  Christian.  This  assertion  is  not  only  approved  by 
reason,  but  abundantly  confirmed  by  the  history  of  the  Church,  and  the 
express  declaration  of  God's  word.  "Whosoever,"  says  the  great  apos 
tle  to  the  Gentiles,  "shall  call  upon  the  name  of  the  Lord  shall  be  saved. 
How  then  shall  they  call  on  him  in  whom  they  have  not  believed]  and 
how  shall  they  believe  in  him  of  whom  they  have  not  heard?  and  how 
shall  they  hear  without  a  preacher?  and  how  shall  they  preach  except 
they  be  sent?"  i.  e.  how  shall  they  proclaim  the  gospel  to  the  heathen,  or 
the  Jews,  unless  they  go  as  missionaries?  And,  as  if  to  show  that  the 
circulation  of  the  Scriptures,  and  the  preaching  of  the  gospel,  should  go 
hand  in  hand,  the  apostle  comes  to  this  conclusion:  "So,  then,  faith  com- 
till  by  hearing,  and  hearing  by  the  word  of  God."  The  countries  in 
which  heathenism  now  prevails,  will  doubtless  be  able  to  furnish  them 
selves  with  preachers,  after  Christianity  shall  have  made  extensive  pro 
gress  in  them;  but  at  the  commencement  of  the  gospel  dispensation  to 
those  who  are  entirely  ignorant  of  it,  they  must  for  many  years  receive 
preachers  from  Christian  nations. 

So  far  as  the  Board  has  been  engaged  in  the  attempt  to  establish  mis 
sions,  some  unexpected  impediments  have  been  thrown  in  the  way.  It 
has  been  ascertained,  however,  that  Ceylon  is  open  to  our  exertions;  and 

*  "That  is,  the  unclean;  a  name  given  by  them  lo  all  who  were  without  cast." 


70  ADDRESS    TO   THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  1813. 

this  is  certainly  one  of  the  most  promising  fields  in  the  world  for  mis 
sionary  enterprise.  At  the  Isle  of  France,  also,  a  useful  station  might 
be  fixed;  and  hopes  are  entertained,  that  a  door  will  be  opened  for  the 
preachers  of  the  gospel  in  the  populous  regions  near  Surat  and  Bombay. 
It  may  also  be  reasonably  hoped  and  believed,  that  the  missionaries  who 
remain  in  the  service  of  the  Board,  will  be  improved,  and  rendered  more 
fit  for  eminent  usefulness,  by  the  trials  which  they  have  experienced. 
So  far  as  can  be  judged  from  their  letters,  the  painful  dispensations  to 
which  we  refer,  have  added  to  their  patience,  fortitude,  and  humility,  and 
have  attached  them  more  strongly  to  the  cause  which  they  have  espoused. 

Disappointments  in  the  great  work  of  evangelizing  the  world  are  to  be 
expected;  but  they  should  never  dishearten  us,  nor  cause  us  to  intermit 
our  labors;  nor  should  they  induce  us  to  relinquish  a  particular  object, 
unless  they  are  of  a  decisive  character,  or  have  been  many  times  re 
peated.  Christians  have  been  too  ready  to  faint  and  grow  weary  under 
discouragements,  in  almost  all  ages  of  the  church.  They  would  do  well 
to  take  lessons  on  this  subject  from  the  men  of  the  world.  Does  the 
loss  of  one  ship,  or  of  a  whole  convoy,  deter  enterprising  merchants  from 
entering  on  a  new  commerce,  which  promises,  so  far  as  probability  is 
regarded,  to  become  lucrative  and  successful?  Do  our  farmers  abandon 
fields,  which  had  been  prepared  for  cultivation  with  great  labor,  merely 
because  the  first  crop  has  not  answered  their  most  sanguine  expectations? 
The  Christian  should  feel  persuaded,  that  though  a  single  attempt,  or 
even  a  series  of  attempts,  to  send  the  gospel  to  the  heathen,  should  fail; 
yet,  not  only  the  experience  of  the  church  from  the  first  promulgation  of 
Christianity  to  the  present  time,  but  the  express  promises  of  God  in  rela 
tion  to  times  still  future,  afford  the  strongest  encouragement  to  persever 
ing  labors  in  this  cause. 

Some  persons  speak  of  missions,  as  though  they  were  a  new  thing  in 
the  world;  or  at  least  as  though  they  had  never  done  much  good  to  man 
kind.  These  persons  forget,  that  Christianity  has  always  been  extended 
by  missions,  wherever  it  has  been  extended  at  all,  with  the  exception  of 
what  has  been  done  in  this  way  by  colonization.  They  forget  that  all 
Europe,  and  large  portions  of  Asia  and  Africa,  have  been  converted  to 
Christianity  by  missions;  that  the  primitive  preachers  of  Christianity 
were  almost  all  missionaries;  that  the  disciples  who  composed  our  Lord's 
household,  to  whom  Matthias  and  Paul  were  subsequently  added,  were 
named  missionaries,  and  have  been  gloriously  distinguished  in  all  suc 
ceeding  ages,  as  the  missionaries  of  Jesus  Christ.  They  seem  ignorant 
that  the  word  apostle,  introduced  into  our  language  from  the  Greek,  is 
precisely  of  the  same  meaning  as  our  word  missionary;  and  that  learned 
divines  have  regretted,  that  the  word  was  not  translated  instead  of  being 
thus  introduced.  They  forget,  that  our  ancestors  in  Britain  were  wretch 
ed  idolaters,  offering  human  sacrifices,  and  clinging  to  the  most  degrad 
ing  superstitions,  till  they  were  delivered  from  their  miserable  bondage 
by  the  instrumentality  of  missionaries.  If  such  mighty  transformations 
were  wrought  by  the  labors  of  missionaries,  when  printing  was  unknown, 
and  there  was  but  little  intercourse  between  nations;  when  most  barbar 
ous  nations  were  subdivided  into  a  multitude  of  petty  states,  hostile  to 
each  other;  when  science  was  in  its  infancy,  and  the  restraints  of  law 
and  order  were  but  partially  enjoyed;  when  commerce  had  but  just  be- 


1813.  ADDRESS    TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  71 

gun  to  produce  its  civilizing  effects; — how  much  more  encouragement  is 
there  to  proceed  with  vigor  in  the  establishment  and  support  of  missions, 
in  these  highly  favored  times,  when  the  art  of  printing  will  enable  us  to 
multiply  copies  of  the  Scriptures  so  as  to  supply  the  wants  of  every  human 
being;  when  commerce  visits  every  part  of  the  world;  when  wealth  is 
abundant,  and  the  means  of  supporting  distant  expeditions  of  benevo 
lence  are  easily  supplied;  when  the  number  of  persons  engaged  in  this 
good  work  is  great  and  increasing;  and  above  all,  when  the  day  is  not 
far  distant,  as  we  trust,  in  which  the  word  of  the  Lord  shall  have  free 
course,  and  its  influence  be  felt  from  the  rising  to  the  setting  sun? 

It  is  to  be  remembered  that,  when  any  great  design  is  to  be  accom 
plished  for  the  church  and  the  world,  God  sees  fit  to  try  those  who  are 
engaged  in  it,  by  many  adverse  occurrences.  Through  what  a  series  of 
difficulties  did  Moses  conduct  the  Israelites  before  they  were  permitted 
to  enter  Canaan?  Through  what  disheartening  scenes  were  the  imme 
diate  disciples  of  our  Lord  called  to  pass,  before  and  after  his  resurrec 
tion?  How  dark  and  mysterious  must  it  have  appeared,  that  Paul,  with 
his  illustrious  qualifications,  should  have  spent  so  large  a  part  of  his  life 
in  prison,  and  in  laboring  with  his  own  hands  for  his  support:  and 
should  have  been  so  perpetually  exposed  to  the  rage  and  persecution  of 
ungodly  men?  In  the  time  of  the  Reformation,  also,  how  numerous 
were  the  difficulties  to  be  encountered, — and  frequently  how  unexpect 
ed, — before  the  truth  could  be  preached  with  safety  in  a  single  nation  in 
Europe?  How  often  did  the  nations,  which  had  been  partially  reformed, 
relapse  into  Popery,  and  re-kindle  the  flames  of  persecution?  When  our 
ancestors  first  came  to  this  country,  and  sacrificed  their  ease  and  com 
fort  to  establish  churches  in  the  wilderness,  how  many  and  various  were 
their  hardships?  How  often  did  they  suffer  under  the  frowns  of  Prov 
idence,  and  how  severely  were  their  faith  and  hope  tried?  Yet,  in  all 
these  instances,  God  was  preparing  his  people  for  success  and  prosper 
ity.  So  in  most  of  the  modern  attempts  to  send  the  gospel  to  the  heathen, 
the  discouragements,  which  at  first  presented  themselves,  have  been 
overcome  by  zeal  and  perseverance.  If  the  Moravians  had  yielded  to 
discouragements,  of  which  they  experienced  a  great  variety,  they  never 
could  have  had,  as  they  now  have,  one  hundred  and  fifty  missionaries, 
some  of  them  in  the  most  inhospitable  climates,  and  twenty  thousand 
hopeful  converts.  If  the  Missionary  Society  in  England  had  given  over 
their  labors,  at  the  loss  of  the  ship  Duff,  they  never  could  have  had,  as 
they  now  have,  missionaries  at  twenty  different  stations;  nor  could  they 
receive,  as  they  now  do,  most  gratifying  intelligence  of  the  progress 
made  in  communicating  instruction,  and  of  conversions  from  idols  to 
Christ.  If  Zeigenbalg  and  his  associates  had  been  deterred  by  tem 
porary  hindrances,  they  could  not  have  planted  the  gospel,  more  than  a 
century  ago,  in  southern  India;  nor  could  a  long  succession  of  mission 
aries  and  pastors  have  ministered  to  churches,  whose  light  has  shone 
in  that  region  with  double  splendor,  in  contrast  with  the  surrounding 
darkness. 

In  estimating  the  success  of  missionaries,  we  must  regard  the  stage  of 
the  mission,  the  difficulties  to  be  met  in  the  beginning,  the  value  of  an 
establishment  among  the  heathen,  and  many  other  things,  beside  the 
number  of  converts  made  by  the  personal  exertions  of  the  first  laborers  in 


72  ADDRESS    TO     THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  1813. 

a  new  field.  The  man  who  shall  learn  a  new  language,  conciliate  the 
regard  of  even  a  few  natives  to  the  cause  in  which  he  is  employed,  add 
facilities  to  the  acquisition  of  the  language,  begin  a  translation  of  the 
Scriptures,  and  prepare  the  way  for  others  to  labor  with  greater  advant 
ages,  may,  eventually,  be  the  instrument  of  bringing  more  souls  to 
heaven,  (though  he  should  never  be  so  happy  as  to  see  any  fruit  of  his 
toil  with  his  mortal  eyes,)  than  the  most  honored  servant  of  Christ  in  a 
Christian  country. 

They  who  urge  against  missions  to  the  heathen  the  small  immediate 
success  which  usually  attend  the  first  attempts  in  a  new  region,  would 
do  well  to  consider,  that  without  a  beginning  there  can  be  no  progress, — 
without  a  progress  no  consummation.  And  shall  there  never  be  a  be 
ginning?  Will  Christians  fold  their  hands,  and  leave  the  heathen  to 
grope  in  Egyptian  darkness,  without  an  effort  to  enlighten  them?  Or, 
if  this  melancholy  determination  is  not  allowed,  when  shall  the  begin 
ning  be  made?  Can  a  more  favorable  time  to  institute  new  missions  ever 
be  expected?  If  this  favorable  crisis,  when  the  Christian  world  is  awake 
on  the  subject,  should  be  suffered  to  pass  away  unimproved,  who  can 
ensure  the  return  of  another?  But  it  will  not  pass  away  in  this  manner; 
it  has  already  been  seized  by  multitudes  who  will  not  relinquish  the  ob 
ject.  In  regard  to  many  missions,  the  beginning  is  past;  the  progress 
is  cheering  beyond  expectation  or  hope;  and  a  glorious  consummation 
may  be  reasonably  anticipated. 

To  those  who  allege  that  little  has  been  hitherto  done  in  the  great 
work,  it  may  be  replied,  that  in  most  instances,  quite  as  much  has  been 
done,  as  was  expected  by  any  man  who  considered  the  means  employ 
ed.  In  some  instances,  more  has  been  done  than  the  most  enthusiastic 
ventured  to  hope.  Who  would  have  dared  to  predict  so  salutary  and 
speedy  a  change,  as  has  been  experienced  at  Bavian's  Kloof  and  Beth- 
elsdorp  in  South  Africa,  by  the  wild,  ferocious,  and  besotted  Caffres  and 
Hottentots?  From  a  state  of  the  most  deplorable  ignorance  and  brutism, 
several  hundred  families  of  these  degraded  people  have  been  delivered, 
by  the  preaching  of  the  plain  truths  of  the  gospel.  Industry  has  taken 
the  place  of  vagrancy;  honesty  the  place  of  fraud  and  theft;  cleanliness 
and  decency  have  been  introduced,  where  the  most  sordid  and  loathsome 
habits  prevailed;  the  love  of  Christ  has  been  shed  abroad  in  hearts,  which 
had  been  the  residence  of  stupidity,  sin  and  guilt;  and  the  Christian 
graces  and  virtues  have  supplanted  the  selfish,  malignant,  and  sensual 
passions  and  vices. 

When  Carey  planned  and  entered  upon  a  mission  to  Hindostan,  about 
twenty  years  ago,  he  did  not  believe  it  credible,  in  his  most  sanguine 
moments,  that  his  own  eyes  would  ever  witness  such  a  progress  as  they 
have  already  witnessed.  It  appeared  to  him  an  object  worthy  of  the 
most  strenuous  labors  of  a  whole  life  to  translate  the  New  Testament 
into  a  single  language;  an  object,  which,  if  he  might  live  to  accomplish 
it,  would  furnish  ground  of  everlasting  gratitude  and  praise  to  God. 
What  then  must  be  his  emotions,  to  see  translations  now  carrying  on  in 
ten  languages,  in  an  establishment  of  which  he  was  the  founder;  to  see 
the  publication  of  the  New  Testament  in  several  languages,  and  a  third 
edition  of  the  whole  Bible  printing  in  one?  What  ought  to  be  the  emo 
tions  of  Christians  generally,  while  beholding  these  things,  and  the 


1813,  ADDRESS    TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  73 

kindred  efforts  of  other  individuals  and  associations  aiming  at  the  same 
great  end?  How  animating  the  thought  that  translations  of  the  Scrip 
tures  are  commenced  in  thirty  Asiatic  languages?  Though  we  have  to 
lament  the  early  death  of  a  Leyden,  and  a  Martyn,  yet  others  will  be 
raised  up  to  supply  their  places,  and  complete  their  benevolent  designs. 
The  progress  which  has  been  made  in  obtaining  a  knowledge  of  the 
religious  character  of  the  Asiatics,  and  of  the  necessary  qualifications 
of  a  missionary,  in  ascertaining  the  manner  in  which  many  classes  of 
the  heathen  are  disposed  to  treat  Christian  instructors,  and  in  establish 
ing  the  fact,  that  the  great  doctrines  of  our  holy  religion  produce  their 
proper  benign  effects,  wherever  preached  in  simplicity,  may  be  re 
garded  as  highly  important  and  satisfactory.  The  most  common  and  popu 
lar  objections  to  missions  are  found  to  be  utterly  groundless;  and  the 
day  seems  to  have  nearly  arrived,  when,  with  all  who  love  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  in  sincerity,  there  shall  be  but  one  opinion  on  the  practica 
bility  and  duty  of  engaging  in  missionary  enterprises. 

Are  we  to  reason,  and  act,  as  though  all  these  advances  were  un 
worthy  of  consideration?  Is  the  progress  already  made  to  be  accounted 
as  nothing?  Is  it  nothing,  that  missionaries  are  stationed  in  New  Hol 
land;  at  many  places  in  Hindostan;  in  Ceylon;  at  five  or  six  places  in 
Africa;  in  Tartary;  in  South  America;  in  Labrador  and  Greenland;  and 
in  the  islands  of  the  Pacific  ocean?  Is  it  nothing,  that  such  a  man  as 
Dr.  Buchanan  has  travelled,  and  published  the  result  of  his  researches, 
in  order  to  show  the  progress  of  Christianity  in  the  east,  and  to  press 
upon  Christians  the  duty  of  activity  in  this  great  work?  Is  it  nothing, 
that  the  caverns  of  the  Inquisition  at  Goa  have  been  thrown  open,  and 
the  wretched  captives  suffered  to  go  free?  and  that  this  victory  of  re 
ligion  over  superstition  has  been  achieved  in  consequence  of  the  benev 
olent  attempts  to  extend  the  light  of  the  gospel  to  Asia?  Is  it  nothing, 
that  we  are  enabled,  by  intelligence  received  while  we  are  writing,  to 
celebrate  the  triumph  of  the  friends  of  missions  in  the  British  Parliament? 
a  triumph  which  unbars  India  to  the  missionaries  of  the  cross?  Is  it 
nothing,  that  the  executive  government  of  Great  Britain  is  strongly  in 
favor  of  communicating  religious  instruction  to  sixty  millions  of  Asiatic 
subjects?  Is  it  nothing,  that  the  voice  of  the  English  nation  was  raised, 
in  the  course  of  three  months,  to  a  louder  note  of  intreaty  in  favor  of 
sending  Christianity  to  the  east,  than  it  had  been  raised  for  a  century 
past,  on  any  moral  or  political  subject  whatever,  not  excepting  the  aboli 
tion  of  the  slave  trade  for  which  the  nation  struggled  twenty  years?  Is 
it  nothing,  that  nine  hundred  petitions  loaded  the  tables  of  each  House 
of  Parliament,  signed  by  nearly  half  a  million  of  individuals, — a  greater 
number  than  ever  before  offered  petitions  in  their  own  hand-writing,  for 
one  common  purpose,  to  any  government  on  earth?  Is  it  nothing,  that 
these  petitions  flocked  together  from  every  part  of  England,  Ireland  and 
Scotland,  as  if  moved  by  the  same  impulse;  that  they  were  every  where  en 
couraged  by  the  wise,  the  considerate,  the  benevolent,  the  pious;  and 
that  their  success  was  earnestly  desired  by  all  classes  of  persons  from 
the  prince  to  the  peasant, — from  the  learned  divine  to  the  amiable 
child? 

We  are  anxious  to  fix  your  attention,  Christian  brethren,  on  the  great 
object  of  evangelizing  all  nations;  an  object  more  glorious,  more  wor- 
10 


74  ADDRESS    TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  1813. 

thy  of  universal  patronage  and  admiration  of  the  people  of  God,  than 
the  tongue  can  express,  or  the  heart  conceive;  and  an  object  of  sure  and 
no  very  distant  accomplishment.  To  this  object  the  eyes  of  Christians 
in  many  countries  are  already  most  earnestly  directed.  The  Chris 
tian  world  is  now,  for  the  first  time,  reaching  forward  to  its  attain 
ment,  and  even  grasping  it  by  anticipation.  In  Great  Britain,  the  pro 
mulgation  of  true  religion  in  every  part  of  the  earth, .  and  the  publica 
tion  and  distribution  of  the  Scriptures  in  every  language,  are  topics  of 
general  and  familiar  allusion,  as  though  these  stupendous  events  were  at 
hand,  and  were  even  now  hailed  with  demonstrations  of  joy.  When  we 
notice  that  the  wisest  and  the  best  informed  men  in  that  empire,  and  in 
our  own  country,  partake  of  these  joyful  anticipations,  and  that  a  sim 
ilar  crisis  in  the  state  of  the  church  has  never  before  been  known; 
when  we  observe,  that  this  tone  of  public  feeling  has  been  excited  not 
by  a  sudden  impulse  of  enthusiasm,  but  by  a  patient  comparison  of  the 
word  of  God  with  his  providence,  of  prophecy  with  history,  by  an  atten 
tive  consideration  of  the  peculiar  signs  of  the  times,  and  by  the  gradual 
operation  of  causes  above  the  powers  of  man  to  contrive  or  combine; 
we  are  forced  to  believe,  that  God  has  great  things  to  be  accomplished 
by  the  men  of  this  generation,  and  that,  after  punishing  the  nations  for 
their  sins,  he  is  about  to  deliver  them  from  the  wretched  bondage  in 
which  they  have  been  held.  To  this  day  the  ancient  prophets  looked 
forward  with  holy  rapture;  for  this  day  the  persecuted  congregations  of 
the  faithful  prayed,  during  the  gloomy  reign  of  popish  superstition;  for 
this  day  the  Reformers  labored  and  suffered;  for  this  day  the  most  devout 
aspirations  of  pious  souls  have  in  every  age  ascended.  Shall  we,  who 
are  so  happy  as  to  see  this  day,  neglect  to  do  our  part?  Other  times 
have  been  times  of  preparation;  the  present  age  is  emphatically  the  age 
of  action.  Shall  we  remain  idle  in  this  harvest  time  of  the  world? 

Some  may  inquire;  What  shall  we  do?  What  are  the  duties  peculiar 
ly  incumbent  upon  Christians  at  the  present  time?  To  these  questions 
the  following  answers  are  respectfully  submitted. 

Christians  should  pray  constantly  and  fervently  for  the  advent  of  the 
latter-day  glory.  This  topic  should  never  be  forgotten  in  the  public 
assembly,  the  social  circle  convened  for  prayer,  the  family,  or  the 
closet.  It  is  uniformly  in  answer  to  prayer,  that  Christ  appears  in  his 
glory  to  build  up  Zion.  It  is  in  consequence  of  prayer,  that  spiritual 
blessings  are  ever  to  be  expected.  Were  it  possible  that  prayer  should 
cease  to  be  offered  for  the  millennium,  that  blissful  period  would  never 
arrive;  and  the  creation  would  groan  under  the  prevalence  of  sin  with 
out  hope  of  deliverance.  Daniel  understood  by  books*  the  time  ap 
pointed  for  the  restoration  of  his  captive  countrymen  to  their  native  land, 
and  set  his  face  to  seek  the  Lord  God  by  prayer  and  supplication.  So 
Christians  should  understand  by  the  sure  word  of  prophecy,  the  time  of 
general  deliverance,  and  should  engage  in  earnest  and  united  prayer. 
They  should  pray,  in  order  to  awaken  their  sympathy  for  the  immense 
multitude  of  sufferers  throughout  the  world;  to  enkindle  their  own  zeal, 
and  stimulate  others  to  the  good  work  of  the  Lord,  and  to  prepare  them 
selves  for  all  the  sacrifices  and  active  services,  which  the  momen- 

*  Dan.  ix,  2. 


1813.  ADDRESS    TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  75 

tous  crisis  demands.  They  should  pray,  that  Christians  may  all  be 
united  in  the  greatest  effort,  which  ever  claimed  their  aid;  and  that 
smaller  points  of  difference  may  be  forgotten  in  the  great  contest  be 
tween  Christ  and  false  gods.  They  should  pray  that  all  Missionary  So 
cieties,  and  all  individuals  who  have  an  influence  in  the  direction  of 
missions,  may  be  prudent,  faithful,  and  guided  by  Infinite  Wisdom;  that 
the  Missionaries  whom  they  send  may  be  humble,  prayerful,  courageous, 
and  persevering,  full  of  faith  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  may  happily 
exemplify  the  doctrines  wich  they  teach;  that  a  great  and  effectual  door 
may  be  opened  for  their  entrance  among  the  heathen,  and  that  Christ 
may  speedily  become  the  power  of  God  and  the  wisdom  of  God  to  many 
who  shall  believe  through  their  instrumentality;  and  that  a  divine  bless 
ing  may  rest  on  all  who  contribute  by  their  influence,  their  example, 
their  property,  or  their  personal  labors,  to  extend  the  limits  of  the  true 
Church,  and  gather  Christ's  wandering  sheep  into  the  one  fold. 

We  take  the  liberty  of  stating,  in  this  place,  that  many  Christians  in 
Great  Britain  have,  since  missions  were  fitted  out  from  that  country, 
observed  the  first  Monday  evening  in  each  month,  as  a  season  of  peculiar 
prayer,  both  social  and  secret,  for  the  success  of  missionaries  and  the 
spread  of  the  Gospel.  The  same  time  has  been  devoted  to  the  same  pur 
pose,  by  Christians  in  some  of  our  towns,  since  the  mission  was  fitted 
out  from  this  country  to  Asia.  Concert  is  pleasing  in  the  pursuit  of  any 
desirable  object.  Let  Christians  who  are  accustomed  to  assemble  for 
social  prayer,  consider  whether  this  concert- may  not  be  further  extend 
ed.  But  whether  this  season  be  equally  convenient  for  all,  or  not,  we 
earnestly  urge  upon  all  the  duty  of  stated,  particular,  persevering  prayer 
for  missionaries  and  those  to  whom  they  are  sent.  Let  Christians  raise 
their  voices  in  unison,  and  adopt  the  language  of  the  prophet,  "For 
Zion's  sake  will  I  not  hold  my  peace;  for  Jerusalem's  sake  I  will  not 
rest;  until  the  righteousness  thereof  go  forth  as  brightness,  and  the  sal 
vation  thereof  as  a  lamp  that  burneth.  And  the  Gentiles  shall  see  thy 
righteousness,  and  all  kings  thy  glory." 

Another  obvious  duty  binding  upon  all  Christians,  is  to  shoio  the  sin- 
cerity  of  their  prayers  by  their  practice.  None,  who  have  read  their 
Bibles,  ought  to  be  ignorant,  that  they  are  stewards  of  whatever  they 
possess;  that  all  their  means  and  opportunities  of  doing  good  are  record 
ed  in  the  book  of  God's  remembrance;  and  that  an  account  must  be 
rendered  of  the  manner  in  which  this  stewardship  has  been  exercised. 
Who,  in  this  favored  land,  can  say,  that  he  has  not  been  entrusted  with 
at  least  one  talent?  Who  can  be  willing  to  hide  that  talent  in  a  napkin? 
How  many  are  there,  who  have  their  five,  their  ten,  their  fifty,  their  hun 
dred  talents?  And  how  unhappy  will  be  their  case,  if  all  this  liberality 
of  Providence  shall  be  found  at  last  to  have  been  wasted  upon  them;  to 
have  produced  none  of  the  good  to  which  it  ought  to  have  been  applied; 
and  to  have  proved  its  earthly  possessors  guilty  of  unfaithfulness  to  the 
rightful  Proprietor? 

The  proportion  of  his  property,  which  each  Christian  should  devote 
to  public  and  charitable  purposes,  differs  according  to  the  different  cir 
cumstances  in  which  he  is  placed,  and  must  be  left  to  the  decision  of 
his  own  conscience  instructed  by  the  word  of  God.  But  however  diffi 
cult  it  might  be  to  determine  the  exact  amount  which  each  one  should 


76  ADDRESS    TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  1813. 

give,  there  can  be  no  hesitation  in  declaring,  that  it  should,  in  all  cir 
cumstances,  and  at  all  times,  be  so  great  as  to  be  really  valued  by  him 
who  gives  it,  and  thus  be  a  real  sacrifice  in  his  estimation.  For  a  poor 
widow  to  give  her  two  mites,  even  all  her  living,  is  a  great  sacrifice;  but 
for  a  wealthy  man  to  give  two  hundred  mites  can  be  no  sacrifice  at  all; 
for  it  would  not  cause  him  a  moment's  uneasiness,  nor  be  considered  as 
a  loss  worthy  to  be  mentioned,  if  he  were  to  lose  ten  times  that  sum  in 
the  bottom  of  the  sea.  That  Christians  may  act  with  system,  and  yield 
to  each  charitable  claim  its  proper  regard,  they  will  do  wisely  to  ascer 
tain,  each  one  for  himself,  how  large  a  sum  he  ought  to  bestow  from 
year  to  year;  always  remembering,  that  it  is  safer  to  err  on  the  side  of 
generosity  than  on  that  of  parsimony,  that  few  err  in  giving  too  much, 
many  in  withholding  more  than  is  meet;  and  that  his  decision  is  to  be 
re-examined  at  the  judgment-seat  of  Christ. 

Still  less  would  we  venture  to  intimate  the  proportion  which  is  due  to 
the  various  charitable  purposes  now  existing  in  this  country.  We  are 
confident,  however,  that  where  the  public  have  the  means  of  informa 
tion  in  relation  to  such  purposes,  where  no  invidious  comparisons  are 
made  between  the  claims  of  different  charitable  associations,  and  no 
rivalship  exists  but  that  which  provokes  to  love  and  to  good  works,  there 
is  reason  to  belive  that  Providence  will  direct  to  a  proper  distribution  of 
pecuniary  means.  There  are  many  charitable  institutions,  on  each  of 
which  every  good  man  ought  to  implore  the  divine  blessing.  Perhaps  no 
one  of  them  receives  so  much  patronage  as  it  deserves,  and  might  very 
usefully  employ.  Let  it  be  the  endeavor  of  the  particular  friends  of  each 
to  increase  the  general  stock  of  benevolence,  trusting,  that  if  this  be 
done,  all  benevolent  designs  will  receive  a  rapidly  increasing  patronage. 

There  is  one  objection  to  sending  missionaries  abroad  so  common, 
and  so  plausible  at  first  view,  that  it  ought  to  be  mentioned  here.  It  is 
this:  That  many  ministers  of  the  gospel,  more  than  can  at  present  be 
supplied,  are  imperiously  needed  at  home.  This  objection  states  a 
melancholy  truth,  but  proceeds  on  a  mistaken  principle.  If  the  apos 
tles  had  argued  thus,  they  never  would  have  quitted  Judea;  the  Gentiles 
would  never  have  heard  the  gospel  till  many  ages  after  the  Christian 
era;  our  ancestors  in  Britain  would  never  have  been  converted.  The 
same  objection  could  have  been  applied,  nay,  was  applied,  to  sending 
missionaries  from  Connecticut  and  Massachusetts  to  our  new  settlements, 
when  the  domestic  Missionary  Societies  first  began  their  operations. 

But  not  to  dwell  on  this  consideration,  there  is  another  which  settles 
the  debate  at  once;  which  is,  That  the  readiest  and  most  efficacious 
method  of  promoting  religion  at  home,  is  for  Christians  to  exert  themselves 
to  send  it  abroad.  On  the  most  thorough  examination,  this  position  will 
be  found  strictly  and  literally  true.  When  missions  to  the  heathen  were 
first  contemplated  in  England,  the  above  objection  was  strongly  urged, 
and  with  as  great  plausibility  as  it  ever  can  be  urged  here.  What  has 
been  the  event?  The  number  of  evangelical  preachers  and  professors 
of  Christianity  has  been  increasing  in  that  country,  in  an  unexampled 
manner,  during  the  whole  time  since  the  first  missionaries  sailed  from 
England.  The  increase  of  faithful  preachers  alone  has  more  than 
twenty-fold  exceeded  the  whole  number  of  missionaries  sent  abroad. 
When  it  was  objected  on  the  floor  of  the  Senate  of  Massachusetts  to 


1813.  ADDRESS    TO    THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  77 

the  act  for  incorporating  the  Board  in  whose  behalf  we  speak,  that  it 
was  designed  to  afford  the  means  of  exporting  religion,  whereas  there  was 
none  to  spare  from  among  ourselves;  it  was  pleasantly  and  truly  replied, 
that  religion  was  a  commodity,  of  which  the  more  we  exported  the  more  we 
had  remaining.  However  strange  this  may  appear  to  some,  it  will  not 
seem  strange  to  him  who  considers  the  import  of  these  words:  "There  is 
that  scattereth,  and  yet  increaseth;  and  there  is  that  withholdeth  more 
than  is  meet,  but  it  tendeth  to  poverty.  He  that  watereth,  shall  be 
watered  also  himself.  It  is  more  blessed  to  give,  than  to  receive."  The 
government  of  God  is  a  government  of  benevolence;  and  is  intended  to 
convince  us,  that  he,  who  does  good  to  others,  is  most  secure  of  receiv 
ing  good  himself.  The  same  remark,  which  was  made  respecting  the 
increase  of  religion  in  England,  will  apply  to  this  country,  so  far  as  it  has 
been  in  similar  circumstances. 

The  only  remaining  duty,  which  our  limits  permit  us  to  urge  upon 
Christians,  in  relation  to  this  subject,  is,  That  they  use  all  the  means 
in  their  power  for  obtaining  information,  respecting,  the  wants  of  the 
heathen,  and  the  encouragements  to  support  missions.  Without  informa 
tion,  no  person  can  act  understandingly;  but  when  in  possession  of  a 
simple  statement  of  what  has  been  done,  and  what  is  doing,  with  the 
motives  for  perseverance,  Christians  can  act  vigorously,  unitedly,  and 
to  good  effect.  To  be  ignorant  of  the  state  and  prospects  of  the  Church, 
at  this  day,  is  criminal;  especially  as  the  means  of  information  are  within 
every  person's  reach. 

We  are  unwilling  to  conclude,  without   addressing   a  few  words  par- 
,  ticularly  to  our  brethren  in  different  parts  of  the   country,  who  have  as 
sociated  in  Foreign  Mission  Societies,  and  have  committed  their  funds 
to  the  disposal  of  the  Board. 

BELOVED  BRETHREN, — We  consider  it  as  a  token  of  great  good  to  our 
own  country,  and  as  a  pledge  of  success  in  the  attempt  to  convert  the 
heathen,  that  so  many  ornaments  of  our  churches  and  pillars  of  civil  so 
ciety,  have  united  in  devoting  a  yearly  tribute  to  extend  the  knowledge 
of  Christ  in  foreign  lands.  In  every  great  cause  union  is  necessary;  in 
none  more  evidently  so,  than  in  the  one  to  which  all  our  remarks  have 
reference.  Union  in  this  cause  is  peculiarly  productive  of  happiness. 
We  appeal  to  your  own  experience,  brethren.  Is  not  the  thought  of 
joining  in  a  work  of  vast  importance  to  the  souls  of  men  with  multi 
tudes  of  your  fellow  Christians,  widely  scattered  through  the  world,  a 
thought  which  dilates  the  heart  with  joy?  which  prompts  to  Christian 
activity?  which  animates  to  prayer  and  praise?  which  ennobles  the  soul, 
and  powerfully  reminds  it  of  the  love  of  Christ  which  passes  knowledge? 

The  multitudes  among  us  who  have  lent  their  influence,  and  their 
property,  to  assist  in  the  mighty  enterprise  of  converting  the  heathen, 
could  not  direct  their  operations  to  effect,  unless  they  had  some  common 
bond  of  union, — some  centre  of  action.  If  the  American  Board  of 
Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  secured  as  it  is  by  an  act  of  incor 
poration,  can  furnish  this  bond,  and  can  so  far  be  the  servants  of  all,  as 
to  direct  the  offerings  and  benefactions  of  all  to  the  end  for  which  they 
are  designed,  the  satisfaction  thence  arising  will  be  a  rich  reward  for  the 
care  and  labor  which  so  weighty  a  concern  demands.  That  the  Board 
shall  in  no  case  err,  it  would  be  presumptuous  to  engage;  but  that  their 


78  ADDRESS   TO   THE    CHRISTIAN    PUBLIC.  1813. 

designs  are  in  a  high  degree  interesting  to  all  the  disciples  of  Christ,  may 
be  safely  affirmed;  and  that  the  measures  adopted  by  them  will,  with  a 
divine  blessing,  be  greatly  conducive  to  the  happiest  results,  may  reason 
ably  be  hoped. 

It  is  respectfully  recommended  to  Foreign  Mission  Societies,  that  this 
address  be  read  at  their  next  annual  meetings,  unless  peculiar  circum 
stances  render  it  inconvenient. 

The  worthy  and  pious  females  in  our  country,  who  have  associated  to 
contribute  to  the  funds  of  this  Board,  are  deserving  of  particular  and  af 
fectionate  remembrance.  Nor  would  we  pass  over  other  females  of  like 
•character,  whose  situation  does  not  permit  them  thus  to  associate,  but 
whose  cordial  regards  to  the  cause  have  been  expressed  by  individual 
donations.  From  the  time  of  our  Lord's  crucifixion  to  the  present  day, 
probably  from  the  patriarchal  ages,  the  larger  proportion  of  his  most 
faithful  and  devoted  followers  have  been  found  in  the  female  sex.  Here 
is  a  scene  of  action,  in  which  women  may  take  a  lively  interest  without 
overstepping  the  limits  which  a  sense  of  propriety  has  imposed  on  female 
exertion.  Here  is  an  occasion,  in  which  thousands  of  pious  females  may 
express  the  same  affection  with  which  the  heart  of  Mary  overflowed,  when 
she  anointed  the  feet  of  her  Savior,  and  wiped  them  with  the  hairs  of 
her  head.  She  did  it  to  honor  the  person  of  her  Lord  before  his  burial; 
they  are  invited  to  show  the  same  affection,  by  furnishing  the  means  of 
calling  to  spiritual  life  in  Him  those  who  are  dead  in  trespasses  and  sins. 
To  conclude;  the  Board  are  deeply  sensible  that  they  need,  and  are 
earnestly  desirous  to  receive,  the  co-operation,  the  good  wishes,  and  the 
prayers,  of  the  numerous  friends  of  Christ,  who  have  embarked  in  this 
cause.  The  considerate  public  will  readily  allow,  that  to  examine  the 
comparative  claims  of  many  distinct  heathen  countries; — to  select  the 
most  promising  fields  of  action; — to  judge  of  the  qualifications  of  missiona 
ries; — to  meet  unexpected  trials  with  fortitude  and  imdiminished  resolu- 
rtion; — to  anticipate  and  supply  the  wants  of  distant  laborers  in  the  vine 
yard: — to  keep  up  an  extensive  foreign  correspondence; — to  make  prompt 
and  regular  remittances,  in  the  changing  state  of  the  world; — to  instruct 
•missionaries  in  all  the  unforeseen  and  difficult  cases  which  may  occur; — to 
manage  with  skill  and  prudence  the  pecuniary  affairs  of  the  institution; 
— in  short,  to  discharge  with  fidelity,  and  care,  and  from  love  to  Christ 
and  his  disciples,  all  the  various  duties  imposed  upon  the  members,  and 
^especially  upon  the  officers  of  this  Board,  is  an  arduous  work;  a  work 
fraught  with  high  and  solemn  responsibility,  which  requires  much  thought, 
•constant  attention,  and  frequent  labor,  and  which  makes  it  proper  that 
ihey,  to  whom  so  weighty  a  charge  is  committed,  should  solicit  the  affec 
tionate  remembrance  of  their  brethren,  whenever  they  draw  near  to  the 
mercy-seat.  Enjoying  this  consolation  amidst  their  cares,  and  relying  on 
this  source  of  strength  and  wisdom,  the  Board  may  hope  to  contribute 
something  to  the  advent  of  the  happy  period,  when  God  shall  extend 
peace  to  his  church  like  a  river,  and  the  glory  of  the  Gentiles  like  a 
flowing  stream. 

JEDIDIAH  MORSE,  \ 

SAMUEL  WORCESTER,    >  Committee. 
JEREMIAH  EVARTS,        ) 
Boston,  October  25,  1813. 


MIJVUTES 


FIFTH    ANNUAL    MEETING 


THE  Board  met  according  to  appointment,  at  the  Philosophical 
Chamber  of  Yale  College,  on  Thursday,  September  15,  1814,  at  10 
o'clock,  A.  M. — Present, 

The  Hon.  ELIAS  BOUDINOT,  Esq.  LL.  D. 
Hon.  JOHN  TREADWELL,  Esq.  LL.  D. 
Rev.  JOSEPH  LYMAN,  D.  D. 
Rev.  SAMUEL  SPRING,  D.  D. 
Hon.  JOHN  HOOKER,  Esq. 
Rev.  JEDIDIAH  MORSE,  D.  D. 
Rev.  CALVIN  CHAPIN, 
Rev.  JAMES  RICHARDS, 
Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  D.  D. 
Rev.  HENRY  DAVIS,  D.  D.  and 
JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq.* 

The  Vice  President  opened  the  meeting  \yith  prayer. 

The  following  gentlemen  were  chosen  officers  for  the  year  ensu 
ing,  viz. 

The  Hon.  JOHN  TREADWELL,  Esq.  President. 

The  Rev.  Dr.  SPRING,  Vice  President. 

The  Rev.  Dr.  SPRING,  \ 

The  Rev.  Dr.  WORCESTER,   and  > Prudential  Committee* 

Mr.  EVARTS,  ) 

The  Rev.  Dr.  WORCESTER,  Corresponding  Secretary. 

The  Rev.  Mr.  CHAPIN,  Recording  Secretary. 

JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq.  Treasurer. 

Mr.  CHESTER  ADAMS,  Auditor.^ 

*  The  Rev.  Dr.  Dwight  was  prevented  by  College  business,  from  attending  till  near  the 
close  of  the  meeting. 

t  William  Bartlet,  Esq.,  declined  a  re-election, 
j  Charles  Walley,  Esq.,  who  was  chosen  Auditor  last  year,  declined  accepting:  the  office. 


80  MINUTES  OF  THE  BOARD.  1814. 

Voted,  That  the  thanks  of  this  Board  be  presented  to  William  Bart- 
let,  Esq.,  for  his  services  as  a  member  of  the  Prudential  Committee,  and 
for  the  generous  entertainment  which,  on  several  occasions,  he  has 
afforded  the  Prudential  Committee. 

The  Hon.  Elias  Boudinot  communicated  an  extract  from  a  letter, 
stating  an  earnest  request  from  the  Delaware  Indians,  that  missionaries 
be  sent  among  them;  which  extract  was  referred  to  the  Prudential  Com 
mittee. 

Voted,  That  it  is  the  opinion  of  this  Board,  that  the  independent  and 
unevangelized  tribes  of  Indians,  occupying  their  own  lands,  whether 
without  or  within  the  limits  stated  in  the  treaty  of  peace  between  the 
United  States  and  Great  Britain,  are,  with  other  objects,  embraced  by  the 
Act  of  their  Incorporation. 

The  Prudential  Committee  exhibited  their  Report,  which  was  ac 
cepted. 

At  3  o'clock,  P.  M.,  public  divine  service  was  attended,  in  the  church 
of  the  United  Society,  and  a  sermon  was  delivered  by  the  Rev.  Mr. 
Richards,  from  Ephesians  iii,  8:  "Unto  me,  who  am  less  than  the  least 
of  all  saints,  is  this  grace  given,  that  I  should  preach  among  the  Gentiles 
the  unsearchable  riches  of  Christ." 

Voted,  That  the  thanks  of  this  Board  be  presented  to  the  Rev.  Mr. 
Richards  for  his  sermon  delivered  this  day;  and  that  a  copy  thereof  be 
requested  for  publication. 

The  Hon.  Mr.  Boudinot  and  the  Rev.  Dr.  Davis  were  appointed  a 
committee  to  carry  the  foregoing  vote  into  effect.  The  printing  of  the 
sermon  was  referred  to  the  Prudential  Committee. 

Voted,  To  request  De  Lauzun  Deforest,  Esq.,  to  audit  the  Treasurer's 
accounts  for  the  year  now  closed. 

Friday,  September  16.  The  Rev.  Dr.  Davis  opened  the  meeting  with 
prayer. 

The  Treasurer's  accounts  were  exhibited,  as  examined  and  certified 
by  the  Auditor,  and  accepted. 

Voted,  That  the  next  annual  meeting  be  holden  at  Salem,  (Mass.)  on 
the  third  Wednesday  of  September,  1815,  at  10  o'clock,  A.  M. 

The  Rev.  Mr.  Chapin  was  chosen  preacher  for  that  meeting,  and  the 
Rev.  Dr.  Davis  second  preacher. 

Voted,  That  the  Recording  Secretary  transmit  to  every  member  of 
the  Board,  information  of  the  time  and  place  of  the  next  annual  meeting. 

The  following  by-law  was  adopted,  in  addition  to  chapter  second,  sec 
tion  first,  of  the  By-laws: 

If,  in  the  opinion  of  the  Prudential  Committee,  it  shall  at  any  time  be 
dangerous  to  the  health  of  the  members  of  the  Board,  or  on  any  other 
account  highly  inexpedient,  to  meet  at  the  place  appointed  for  any  an 
nual  meeting,  the  Prudential  Committee  are  authorized  to  appoint  some 
other  place  for  such  meeting,  by  giving  notice  of  such  place  to  the  Re 
cording  Secretary,  in  season  for  him  to  give  notice  to  each  member  of 
the  Board. 

Voted,  That  the  thanks  of  this  Board  be  presented  to  the  President 
and  Fellows  of  Yale  College,  for  the  convenient  accommodation  afforded 
them,  during  their  present  session,  in  the  Philosophical  Chamber  apper- 


1814.  REPORT.  81 

taining  to  said  College;  and  that  the  Recording  Secretary  transmit  a 
copy  of  this  vote  to  the  President. 

Voted,  That  the  Prudential  Committee  be  directed  to  prepare  and 
publish  the  annual  Report  of  the  Board,  including  such  parts  of  the  Re 
port  of  the  Prudential  Committee  as  they  shall  judge  most  useful,  an 
abstract  of  the  Treasurer's  accounts,  a  statement  of  donations,  and  such 
other  information  as  they  shall  deem  proper  and  expedient. 

The  Rev.  Dr.  Lyman  closed  the  session  with  prayer. 

REPORT. 

BRETHREN, — The  last  annual  Report  of  your  Committee  left  our  mis 
sionaries  in  the  East,  on  the  mighty  waters,  uncertain  where  they  should 
land,  and  still  more  doubtful  where  they  should  abide.  During  the 
year,  great  solicitude  has  been  felt  for  them;  but  at  length  that  solicitude 
is  considerably  relieved.  For  a  long  season  they  were  held  in  anxious 
suspense,  painfully  fluctuating  between  fear  and  hope;  but  at  length  that 
suspense  appears  to  have  come  nearly  to  an  end.  Our  last  letters  from  them 
were  received,  by  the  way  of  England,  about  ten  days  ago;  the  latest  date 
from  Mr.  Newell  being  the  20th  of  last  December,  at  Columbo,  in  the 
island  of  Ceylon;  and  from  Messrs.  Hall  and  Nott,  the  23d  of  the  same 
month,  at  Bombay.  The  principal  facts  and  circumstances,  related  in 
their  several  communications,  your  Committee  will  report  in  order. 

Messrs.  Hall  and  Nott,  as  reported  at  our  last  anniversary,  left  Cal 
cutta  on  the  20th  of  November,  1812,  under  circumstances  not  very 
pleasant,  and  embarked  for  Bombay,  expecting  to  touch  at  Ceylon,  and 
doubtful  whether  they  should  proceed  any  further.  It  appears,  however, 
that  they  touched  not  at  Ceylon,  but  at  Pondicherry,  where  they  staid 
about  five  weeks.  The  reason  of  this  they  probably  assigned  in  a  letter 
written  at  Pondicherry,  to  which  in  a  subsequent  letter  they  refer,  but 
which  has  not  been  received.  They  arrived  at  Bombay  on  the  llth  of 
February,  1813,  about  eleven  weeks  after  leaving  Calcutta.  On  their 
arrival,  they  immediately  found  that  intelligence  concerning  them,  for 
warded  from  Calcutta,  had  reached  Bombay;  intelligence,  disadvantage 
ous  to  them,  and  accompanied  with  an  expression  of  the  will  of  the 
supreme  government,  that  they  should  be  sent  to  England.  They  were 
permitted  to  submit  to  Sir  Evan  Nepean,  governor  of  Bombay,  a  very 
respectful  and  judicious  memorial;  which,  together  with  accompanying 
documents,  declared  the  views  with  which  they  came  to  India — made 
known  the  patronage  and  instructions  under  which  they  had  been  sent 
forth — gave  a  narrative  of  their  proceedings  at  Calcutta — explained  the 
misunderstandings  which  had  arisen  between  them  and  the  supreme  gov 
ernment  there,  and  the  reasons  of  their  departing  thence  for  Bombay, 
under  circumstances  so  liable  to  misconstruction — referred  their  case  to 
the  well  known  clemency  and  candor  of  the  Governor,  and  implored  his 
favor  and  protection.  Their  memorial  was  very  kindly  received  and  con 
sidered;  and  every  thing  relating  to  their  object  and  their  proceedings, 
appeared  to  the  Governor  in  so  satisfactory  a  light,  that  he  not  only  al 
lowed  them  to  remain  for  the  present  at  Bombay,  but  assured  them  of  his 
disposition  to  render  them  every  favor  in  his  power;  and  even  took  upon 
himself  the  trouble  to  write  a  private  letter  in  their  behalf  to  Lord  Minto, 
11 


82  REPORT.  1814. 

the  governor  general  at  Calcutta,  with  a  view  to  remove  the  unfavorable 
impressions  respecting  them,  which  had  been  made  on  his  Lordship's 
mind,  either  by  misrepresentations  or  unexplained  circumstances,  and  to 
obtain  permission  for  them  to  reside  at  Bombay,  or  to  go,  unmolested,  in 
pursuit  of  their  object  elsewhere.  Thus  encouraged  the  two  brethren 
sat  down  to  the  study  of  the  Mahratta  language,  under  the  tuition  of  a 
Brahmin;  in  the  hope  of  having  the  satisfaction,  in  due  time,  of  preach 
ing  in  that  language  to  the  natives  at  Bombay,  and  in  the  extensive  and 
populous  regions  in  which  the  language  is  vernacular. 

Sir  Evan  Nepean's  letter  appears  to  have  been  successful  in  satisfy 
ing  the  governor  general's  mind  in  regard  to  the  character  and  proceed 
ings  of  the  two  missionaries.  The  war,  however,  between  the  United 
States  and  Great  Britain,  intelligence  of  which  had  been  received  in 
India,  gave  rise  to  new  difficulties.  On  the  25th  of  June,  the  brethren 
were  informed  by  Dr.  Taylor,  a  gentleman  from  whom  they  received 
many  friendly  offices,  .that  the  Governor.  Sir  Evan  Nepean,  had  expressed 
his  fears  that,  on  account  of  the  war,  he  should  be  under  the  necessity  of 
sending  them  to  England;  though,  as  they  state  in  their  journal,  "the 
Governor  expressed  to  Dr.  Taylor  his  firm  confidence  in  their  integrity, 
and  the  excellency  of  the  character  of  those  gentlemen  by  whom  tjiey 
were  patronized." 

On  the  18th  of  August,  by  the  advice  of  a  Mr.  Money,  another  gen 
tleman  to  whom  they  were  indebted  for  many  offices  of  kindness,  they 
drew  up  another  memorial  to  the  Governor,  which  was  to  be  presented 
along  with  certain  documents  of  a  purport  to  shew  decisively,  that  their 
mission  had  no  connection  with  the  war.  Mr.  Money,  they  say,  "urged 
us  to  do  this  immediately,  as  he  had  observed  our  names  down  at  the 
marine  office  as  passengers  to  England  in  the  Caarmarthen,  which  was 
to  have  sailed  about  this  time,  but  having  sprung  a  leak  will  be  detained 
a  month  or  two."  From  this  memorial,  that  something  of  the  spirit  and 
feelings  of  the  brethren  may  be  perceived  and  felt,  the  following  passages 
are  extracted: — 

"Right  Honorable  Sir, — When  we  consider  that  both  English  and 
American  Christians  are  interested  in  our  success — that  already  much 
time  and  money  have  been  expended  in  our  enterprise,  and  that  much 
more  must  be  expended  if  we  are  sent  from  this  place; — that  we  must 
then  be  in  perfect  uncertainty,  whether  we  shall  ever  be  allowed  to  preach 
to  the  destitute  the  unsearchable  riches  of  Christ; — and  especially  when 
we  consider  the  command  of  that  ascending  Lord,  in  whom  we  all  hope, 
and  whom  we  would  obey; — we  feel  justified,  we  feel  compelled,  by  mo 
tives  which  we  dare  not  resist,  to  entreat  your  Excellency's  favor.  To 
ourselves  it  cannot  but  be  supposed,  that  to  fail  in  our  object  must  be  in 
the  highest  degree  trying.  Our  feelings  are  deeply  interested,  it  may 
well  be  supposed,  in  our  object,  to  which  we  have  been  looking  for  so 
many  years — for  which  we  have  left  our  country,  our  prospects,  and  our 
dearest  friends — to  which  we  are  conscientiously,  and,  by  the  help  of 
God,  unalterably  devoted — in  which  the  hearts  of  Christians  are  univer 
sally  engaged,  without  distinction  of  country,  and  which  we  cannot 
doubt,  is  under  the  favorable  eye  of  our  Lord  and  Master." 

"Your  Excellency's  well  known  desire  for  promoting  Christian  knowl 
edge,  and  the  certainty  that  we  should  be  in  future,  as  really  under  the 


1814.  REPORT.  83 

direction  and  at  the  disposal  of  your  Excellency,  as  at  the  present  mo 
ment,  encourage  us  in  requesting  that  we  may  be  allowed  to  remain,  at 
least  till  it  may  be  learned  whether  there  will  be  a  speedy  termination  of 
the  unhappy  war." 

On  the  next  day  they  write,  "Having  prepared  the  preceding  memo 
rial,  we  went  with  it  to  Mr.  Money,  being  desirous  to  forward  it  as  soon 
as  possible,  on  account  of  a  report  which  we  last  evening  heard,  that  we 
were  to  go  to  England  in  the  Sir  Godfrey  Webster,  to  sail  on  Sabbath 
next.  At  breakfast  with  Mr.  Money,  we  saw  the  superintendant  of  em 
barkation,  who  told  us,  that  he  had,  by  order  of  the  Governor,  yesterday 
settled  every  arrangement  for  our  going  in  the  Sir  Godfrey  Webster,  and 
that  every  pains  had  been  taken  to  make  us  comfortable,  and  that  we 
had  been  provided  for  suitably  to  our  ministerial  character.  We  were 
much  distressed  by  this  intelligence,  and  especially  as  we  were  entirely  un 
prepared  for  such  a  voyage.  Mr.  Money  immediately  waited  on  the  Gover 
nor,  to  tell  him  our  unprepared  state,  and  to  hand  him  the  above  petition. 
On  his  return  he  informed  us,  that  the  Governor's  orders  from  Bengal 
were  such,  that  he  would  be  unable  to  allow  us  to  remain;  but,  as  he  was 
unwilling  to  put  us  to  auy  inconvenience,  he  would  allow  us  to  stay  until 
the  sailing  of  the  Caarmarthen,  which  is  to  be  in  about  six  weeks.  We 
then  waited  on  the  Governor  ourselves,  and  expressed  our  thanks  for  his 
kindness  now,  and  on  former  occasions.  He  told  us,  that  he  had  sup 
posed  us  prepared  on  the  ground  of  what  he  had  told  Dr.  Taylor;  and 
endeavored  to  justify  the  Supreme  Government  in  sending  us  away  on 
account  of  the  war.  He  declared  his  perfect  confidence  that  we  were 
innocent  and  harmless  men,  whose  weapons  of  warfare  were  not  carnal 
but  spiritual.  He  likewise  told  us  that  he  had  succeeded  in  removing 
the  unfavorable  impressions  which  had  been  made  on  the  mind  of  the 
Governor  General,  to  effect  which  he  had  written  to  Lord  Minto  a  private 
letter.  Thus  it  pleases  the  Lord  to  deal  with  us  We  have  never  been 
covered  with  so  thick  a  cloud." 

Things  remained  in  this  posture  until  about  the  middle  of  September. 
At  that  time  the  brethren  received  from  Calcutta  the  letters  which,  about 
ten  months  before,  had  been  sent  out  for  them  from  this  country  by  the 
Alligator;  and  which,  they  say,  "afforded  us  a  pleasure  which  we  cannot 
describe."  With  the  advice  of  particular  friends,  they  submitted  to  the 
Governor's  inspection  the  official  letter  to  them  from  the  Corresponding 
Secretary,  accompanied  with  a  note,  in  which  they  say,  "We  extremely 
regret  that  the  accompanying  letter  did  notxcorne  'to  hand  at  an  earlier 
period.  Though  received  at  so  late  an  hour,  we  should  not  feel  that  we 
were  faithful  to  our  Patrons,  to  a  numerous  body  of  Christian  friends, 
and  to  the  Savior's  cause,  were  we  not  to  beg  the  liberty  of  presenting  it 
to  your  Excellency  for  perusal.  Its  general  tenor,  and  particularly  the 
information  which  it  gives  of  the  appointment  of  a  Committee  at  Cal 
cutta  to  co-operate  in  our  mission,  seems  to  us  fully  to  declare,  that  our 
Society  is  simply  engaged  in  the  great  work,  dear  to  English  and  Ameri 
can  Christians,  of  spreading  Christian  knowledge  and  Christian  hopes. 
The  gentlemen,  whom  we  now  understand  to  constitute  the  Committee, 
are  the  Rev.  Dr.  Carey,  the  Rev.  Mr.  Thomason,  Chaplain,  and  George 
Udny,  Esq.;  the  latter  two  in  the  place  of  Dr.  Brown,  and  J.  H.  Haring- 
ton,  Esq.  To  this  Committee  we  yesterday  made  known  our  unhappy 


84  REPORT.  1814. 

situation;  and  we  beg  leave  to  express  our  desire  to  your  Excellency,  that 
our  departure  from  this  Presidency  may  be  so  long  delayed,  as  to  give 
them  an  opportunity  of  acquainting  the  Governor  General  with  their 
relation  to  Us,  and  of  removing,  if  possible,  the  objections  to  our  stay 
arising  from  the  unhappy  war." 

The  next  day  after  this  note  was  delivered,  they  write  in  their  jour 
nal,  "Mr.  Nott  waited  on  the  Governor  this  morning  at  his  request.  He 
mentioned  that  he  felt  greatly  embarrassed  on  account  of  yesterday's 
letter  to  him;  that  he  wished  to  do  all  in  his  power  for  us;  that  he  would 
think  on  the  subject,  and  give  an  answer  in  two  or  three  days.  He  did 
not  hesitate  in  saying,  that  were  he  left  to  himself,  he  could  not  send 
us  away." 

The  Committee  of  Agency  for  our  affairs  in  India,  appointed  by  the 
Prudential  Committee,  as  this  Board  will  recollect,  were  the  Hon.  John 
H.  Harington,  Esq.  and  Drs.  Carey  and  Brown.  But  when  our  com 
munication  arrived  at  Calcutta,  Dr.  Brown  was  dead,  and  Judge  Har 
ington  was  absent.  Under  these  circumstances,  Dr.  Carey  thought  fit  to 
appoint  the  Rev.  Thomas  Thomason,*  in  the  place  of  Dr.  Brown,  and 
they  unitedly  requested  George  Udny,  Esq.f  to  act  in  the  place  of  Mr. 
Harington.  Intelligence  of  this  arrangement  was  duly  communicated 
to  the  two  brethren  at  Bombay;  and  they,  perceiving  the  advantage 
which  it  offered  them,  immediately  addressed  the  letter,  referred  to  in 
the  above  cited  note  to  Governor  Nepean,  to  the  Committee  at  Calcutta, 
for  the  purpose  of  engaging  their  good  offices  with  the  Governor-General 
in  their  behalf. 

About  five  days  after  this,  the  two  brethren  received  letters  from  Mr. 
Newell  at  Columbo,  and  from  the  Rev.  Mr.  Thomson,  Chaplain  at  Ma 
dras,  from  which  the  following  extracts  are  given.  Mr.  Newell,  under 
date  of  Aug.  18th,  1813,  writes,  "I  have  had  repeated  assurances  from 
the  Hon.  and  Rev.  Mr.  Twistleton,  senior  Chaplain,  and  from  Mr.  Bris- 
set  the  other  Chaplain,  the  Governor's  brother-in-law,  that  as  many  of 
my  friends  as  choose  to  come  here  shall  be  safe,  and  have  liberty  to  go 
to  any  part  of  the  Island."  Mr.  Thomson,  under  date  of  Sept.  7th, 
writes,  "You  have,  T  believe,  received  notice  from  Mr.  Newell,  that 
you  will  be  welcomed  at  Ceylon.  I  am  warranted  by  letters  from  the 
Hon.  and  Rev.  Mr.  Twistleton,  to  confirm  it.  I  think  you  should  lose 
no  time  in  submitting  this  to  the  Governor,  Sir  Evan  Nepean,  and  re 
questing  leave  to  retire  thither,  instead  of  being  sent  to  England." 

Accordingly,  after  prayerful  consideration,  Messrs.  Hall  and  Nott,  on 
the  22d  Sept.  submitted  the  communications  from  Messrs.  Thomson  and 
Newell  to  the  Governor,  accompanied  with  a  memorial,  in  which  they 
say,  "  After  having  read  them,  we  beg  your  excellency  to  regard  with 
a  favorable  eye,  the  pure,  peaceful,  inoffensive,  Christian  character  of 
our  mission,  proved  incontestibly  by  our  instructions,  by  our  letters,  and 
by  the  appointment  of  a  committee  of  British  gentlemen  of  the  clergy  and 
laity  to  co-operate  in  the  mission,  which  we  have  had  the  happiness  of 

*  The  Prudential  Committee,  before  receiving  this  communication,  had  appointed  the  Rev. 
Mr.  Thomason  to  supply  the  vacancy  occasioned  by  the  death  of  the  Rev.  Dr.  Brown. 

t  George  Udny,  Esq.  has  been  for  many  years  a  member  of  the  Supreme  Council  in  the 
Bengal  Government,  and  has  been  uniformly  favorable  to  the  diffusion  of  Christianity  in  India. 
The  Supreme  Council  consists  of  four  members,  with  the  Governor  General  at  their  head. 


1814.  REPORT.  85 

making  known  to  your  Excellency;  and  to  bestow  an  indulgent  consid 
eration  on  our  present  distressing  situation,  which  must  be  aggravated 
in  a  severe  degree,  if  we  are  sent  across  the  seas  to  a  foreign  land, 
divided  from  our  own  by  an  unhappy  war,  the  commencement  of  which 
we  have  sincerely  deprecated,  and  for  the  conclusion  of  which  we  earn 
estly  pray." — "It  is  still  our  highest  wish  to  remain  here,  and  render 
ourselves  useful  as  instructors  of  youth  and  preachers  of  the  gospel, 
under  the  protection  of  your  Excellency's  government,  where  the  spirit 
ual  miseries  of  thousands  call  so  loudly  for  the  blessings  of  Chris 
tianity,  where  there  are  so  many  facilities  for  diffusing  those  blessings, 
and  from  which  we  cannot  be  sent  without  so  much  grief  to  nu 
merous  Christians,  and  so  much  discouragement  to  others,  who  are 
desiring  to  leave  their  own  country,  and  go  to  preach  Christ  in  Pagan 
/lands.  It  is  only  therefore  in  the  last  resort,  and  with  the  hope  of  pre 
venting  the  entire  defeat  of  our  pious  attempt,  that  we  implore  your 
Excellency's  sanction  to  remove  ourselves  from  this  place  to  Ceylon, 
where  we  have  such  assurances  of  a  favorable  reception,  where  we  can 
not  but  be  under  the  superintending  eye  of  a  British  government,  and 
where,  we  trust,  our  conduct  will  be  unobjectionable  to  his  Excellency 
Governor  Brownrigg." 

In  their  journal,  Oct  2,  the  brethren  write,  "Mr.  Money  having,  at 
our  request,  conferred  with  the  Governor  concerning  our  petition,  receiv 
ed  this  day  from  his  Excellency  a  note  nearly  as  follows:  'I  find  myself 
awkwardly  situated  relative  to  the  two  missionaries  whom  I  wish  to 
serve.  On  the  20th  of  August  I  wrote  to  Lord  Minto,  and  I  ought  to 
have  received  his  Lordship's  answer  some  days  since,  and  am  now  in 
daily  expectation  of  it.  I  told  his  Lordship,  that  I  'understood  he  had 
changed  his  plan  concerning  missionaries,  and  allowed  one  in  similar  cir 
cumstances  to  remain  in  Bengal;  and  that  now  there  was  time  for  him  to 
shew  the  same  favor  to  Messrs.  Hall  and  Nott;  but  that  if  I  should  receive 
no  new  commands  from  his  Lordship,  I  should  send  them  to  England  by 
the  next  ships.  I  had  thought  of  another  plan  for  them,  which  was, 
that  in  case  Captain  Digby  should  arrive  in  season,  I  should  request  him 
to  give  them  a  passage  in  the  Cornwallis,  which,  as  that  ship  will  stop  at 
Ceylon,  would'give  Governor  Brownrigg  an  opportunity  to  take  such  mea 
sures  relative  to  them  as  he  might  judge  proper."  Nine  days  afterwards 
they  write,  "This  day  dined  with  the  Governor.  He  added  nothing  to 
what  he  had  said  in  Mr.  Money's  note.  He  repeated  that  he  must  send 
us  in  one  of  these  ships,  unless  something  new  should  take  place." 
And  five  days  after  this,  that  is,  on  the  16th  of  October,  they  say, 
"This  afternoon  we  received  a  note  from  our  friend  W.  T.  Money,  Esq. 
informing  us,  that  the  Governor  had  failed  in  his  application  to  Captain 
Digby.  He  says,  'Sir  Evan  sincerely  regrets  his  ill  success.  I  am  sure 
he  felt,  and  does  now  feel,  much  interest  for  you.  Under  these  inau 
spicious  circumstances,  nothing  now  remains,  but  to  prepare  for  your 
departure  in  the  Caarmarthen.'  " 

The  Caarmarthen  was,  at  this  time,  on  the  eve  of  sailing,  and  there 
remained  to  Messrs.  Hall  and  Nott  scarcely  a  gleam  of  hope  that  they 
should  avoid  being  sent  to  England.  On  the  18th  of  October,  however, 
they  had  information  of  a  vessel  going  to  Cochin;  learned  that  she  would 
give  them  a  passage,  if  they  could  be  ready  to  go  on  board  in  about 


86  REPORT.  1814. 

four  or  five  hours;  and  understood,  that  from  Cochin  she  would  shortly 
convey  them  to  Columbo  in  Ceylon.  The  time  for  deliberation  was  short. 
They  concluded  to  go;  and  accordingly  taking  some  of  their  most 
necessary  things,  they  embarked;  leaving  Mrs.  Nott  with  her  child,  and 
some  notes  hastily  written  to  acquaint  their  friends  at  Bombay  with  the 
fact  and  the  reasons  of  their  departure.  On  the  30th  of  the  same 
month  they  arrived  at  Cochin,  where  they  were  kindly  received,  and 
during  their  stay  very  generously  entertained,  by  Mr.  Pearson,  magis 
trate  of  the  place. 

On  the  5th  of  November  they  write  in  their  journal.  "For  five  days 
we  have  been  laboriously  employed  in  travelling  among,  and  inquiring 
about,  the  Jews  and  Christians.  We  have  visited  the  college  at  Vali- 
poli,  and  several  Catholic  churches;  Candenade  the  see  of  the  late  Syrian 
Bishop;  and  the  synagogues  of  the  Jews  at  Cochin.  We  have  carefully 
committed  to  paper  what  information  we  could  obtain,  having  been 
kindly  furnished  with  such  facilities  as  the  place  affords." 

The  vessel  which  had  conveyed  them  to  Cochin  could  not,  as  they 
had  expected,  convey  them  thence  to  Columbo.  While  waiting  and  seek 
ing  for  a  passage,  and  just  as  one  seemed  to  be  presenting  itself,  an  order 
arrived  from  Bombay,  requiring  them  to  be  sent  back  to  that  place. 
They  accordingly  returned,  after  an  absence  of  almost  a  month.  With 
their  private  departure  from  Bombay,  Sir  Evan  Nepean  was  not  well 
pleased;  as  it  might,  from  the  favor  which  he  had  shewn  them,  subject 
him  to  censure  from  the  General  Government,  for  imputed  connivance 
or  delinquency.  In  a  respectful  and  able  memorial  to  him,  however, 
after  their  return,  they  justified  the  procedure  on  the  broad  principle, 
that  the  authority  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  under  which  they  had  been  sent 
forth  to  preach  the  gospel  to  the  heathen,  was  paramount  to  any  civil 
authority,  which  would  frustrate,  or  counteract  their  mission;  and  the 
Governor  at  length  was  so  far  satisfied,  as  to  allow  them  to  leave  the 
ship  in  which  they  had  been  brought  back  to  Bombay,  and  which  for 
several  days  after  their  arrival  they  were  not  allowed  to  leave,  and,  free 
from  all  duress,  to  occupy  a  house  provided  for  their  accommoda 
tion  in  the  city.  Still  he  considered  himself  as  required  by  the  Su 
preme  Government  to  send  them  to  England;  and  as  under  particular 
obligations,  from  assurances  which  he  had  given  the  Governor  General, 
to  send  them  by  the  earliest  regular  conveyance. 

On  their  return  into  the  city,  the  two  brethren  were  received  by  their 
worthy  friends  there  with  great  joy,  and  with  expressions  and  tokens  of 
undiminished  affection,  confidence,  and  respect.  Very  soon  afterwards, 
on  the  10th  of  Dec.  they  received,  from  the  Rev.  Mr.  Thomason  of  Cal 
cutta,  the  last  of  three  letters,  bearing  date  Oct.  8th,  and  13th,  and 
Nov.  19th,  1813,  in  answer  to  theirs  of  Sept.  15th,  addressed  to  our 
agents  at  Calcutta.  In  these  letters  Mr.  Thomason,  with  strong  ex 
pressions  of  Christian  affection,  and  of  desire  to  promote  the  great  ob 
ject  of  their  mission,  related  to  them  the  measures  which  he  and  his 
colleagues  in  the  agency  had  taken  in  their  behalf  with  the  Government, 
and  the  success  with  which  those  measures  had  been  attended.  "The 
last  letter,  in  particular,"  say  the  brethren,  "filled  us  with  joy  and 
thanksgiving  to  God.  We  immediately  sent  a  copy  of  it  to  brother 
Newell,  and  to  Mr.  Money  on  the  Gauts.  Our  friends  advise  to  wait 


814.  REPORT.  87 

a  day  or  two  in  hopes  of  something  more  full  from  Calcutta;  and  if 
nothing  should  come,  to  lay  them,  before  the  Governor."  Accordingly,^ 
on  the  13th  of  December,  they  sent  to  the  Governor  the  following  note, 
enclosing  the  two  last  letters  from  Mr.  Thomason. 

"RIGHT  HONORABLE  SIR.  "Having  always  been  convinced  that  the 
resolution  to  send  us  from  this  country  emanated  solely  from  the  orders 
of  the  Supreme  Government,  and  not  from  the  disposition  of  your  Excel 
lency,  which  we  know  to  be  friendly  to  the  evangelical  object  of  our 
mission;  and  having  received  letters  from  Calcutta,  evincing  a  change  of 
sentiments  in  the  late  Governor  General,  and  the  conviction  of  Lord  Moira 
the  present  Governor  General,  "that  our  intentions  are  to  do  good,  and 
that  no  conceivable  public  injury  can  arise  from  our  staying,"  and  that  his 
Lordship  "spoke  very  decidedly  about  our  being  allowed  to  stay;"  we 
beg  to  submit  to  the  perusal  of  your  Excellency  two  letters,  dated  13th 
Oct.,  and  19th  ult.,  addressed  to  us  by  the  Rev.  Thomas  Thomason,  a 
most  respectable  minister  of  the  Church  of  England,  resident  at  Cal 
cutta.  We  trust  that  your  Excellency  will  consider  these  letters  as  con 
taining  decisive  evidence  of  the  favorable  inclinations  of  Lords  Minto 
and  Moira  in  regard  to  our  present  circumstances,  and  future  views: 
and  that  with  this  proof  of  the  light  in  which  our  mission  is  now  re 
garded  by  the  supreme  British  authority  in  India,  you  Excellency  will 
have  no  difficulty  in  permitting  us  to  remain  in  this  place. 

"It  is  with  inexpressible  satisfaction  that  we  are  enabled,  by  a  kind 
and  overruling  Providence,  to  present  these  communications  to  your 
Excellency,  at  this  very  interesting  moment. 

We  have  the  honor  to  be,  &c.  &,c. 

"Bombay,  Dec,  13,  1813." 

On  the  16th  Dec.  their  friend  Mr.  Money  informed  the  two  brethren, 
"that  he  had  just  been  with  the  Governor,  who  mentioned,  that  no  or 
ders  having  been  received  from  Calcutta  concerning  their  stay,  and  he 
being  still  under  the  positive  orders  of  the  Supreme  Government  to  send 
them  away,  he  must  now  send  them."  And  on  the  20th,  R.  T.  Good 
win,  Esq.  the  senior  magistrate  of  police,  officially  notified  them,  "that  a 
passage  was  to  be  provided  for  them  to  England  on  board  the  Charles 
Mills." 

The  Charles  Mills  was  then  under  orders  to  sail  on  the  22d  of  the 
same  month,  only  two  days  after  this  note  was  given.  At  this  critical 
moment  they  drew  up  a  memorial  to  the  Governor,  as  their  last  appeal: 
a  memorial  which  they  considered  as  a  private  communication,  addressed 
to  his  Excellency,  not  as  a  Governor  only,  but  as  a  man,  and  a  Chris 
tian;  which  was  written  with  the  feelings  and  the  solemnity  of  the  oc 
casion;  and  which,  as  they  are  careful  to  note,  they  viewed  as  of  a 
confidential  nature,  but  that  the  worthy  Governor  was  pleased  himself 
to  give  it  publicity.  It  appears  to  have  been  generously  received  by  the 
Governor,  according  to  his  accustomed  goodness,  and  to  have  had  its 
desired  effect. 

On  the  next  day  after  seriding  this  letter,  the  brethren  write  in  their 
journal,  "We  continued  our  preparations.  By  two  o'clock,  (the  same 
day)  our  things  were  packed  and  labelled;  by  three  the  Coolies  (porters) 


88  REPORT.  1814. 

were  all  here;  the  things  were  all  carried  below;  the  boats  were  engaged 
to  carry  them  on  board  ship,  and  the  carpenter  to  go  and  fasten  them. 
The  friend  who  had  charge  of  the  things,  then  went  to  the  Captain  for 
orders  to  have  them  received  on  board.  The  Captain  went  to  the  pay 
office  for  the  money  for  our  passage;  the  money  was  refused,  and  it  was 
reported  that  we  were  not  to  go.  The  friend  returned  with  this  infor 
mation,  and  the  things  were  all  put  into  a  room  below,  and  the  coolies 
dismissed.  About  five,  Mr.  Goodwin,  the  senior  magistrate  of  police, 
called  upon  us  to  say,  that  our  letter  had  been  communicated  to  the 
Council;  and  that  upon  examination,  it  had  been  found,  that  no  orders 
of  any  kind  had  been  received  from  Bengal,  of  a  later  date  than  the 
19th  of  November,  and  that  the  government  would  allow  us  to  remain 
until  they  should  receive  further  orders  from  Bengal  concerning  us. 
This  intelligence,  at  this  decisive  moment,  has  filled  us  with  great  joy; 
and  given  us  great  hopes,  that  we  shall  yet  be  allowed  to  remain  at 
Bombay.  How  wonderful  and  how  merciful  are  God's  dealings  with  us!" 
The  next  morning,  22d  Dec.  they  received  the  following  official  note 

"To    the   Rev.    Gordon   Hall";  and  the  Rev.  Samuel  Nott}    American 

Missionaries. 

"GENTLEMEN,  I  am  directed  by  the  Right  Honorable  the  Governor 
in  Council,  to  acquaint  you,  that  under  the  expectation  of  receiving  some 
further  instructions  from  the  Supreme  Government  respecting  you,  he 
has  determined  to  defer  the  carrying  the  directions  he  has  received  into 
execution,  until  such  instructions  shall  arrive. 

"I  am,  gentlemen,  your  obedient  servant, 

W.  NEWNHAM,  Sec.  to  Government." 
"Bombay  Castle,  Dec.  21,  1813. 

Our  last  letters  from  these  brethren  appear  to  have  been  forwarded  to 
England  by  the  same  ship,  in  which  they  themselves  expected  to  have 
been  conveyed  thither,  and  which  sailed  from  Bombay  on  the  23d  of 
December.  Later  than  this  date  we  have  no  intelligence  from  them. 
From  the  facts  and  circumstances  now  communicated,  however,  your 
Committee  derive  a  pleasing  confidence,  that  our  mission  may  obtain  an 
establishment  at  Bombay:  and  they  are  persuaded  that  this  whole  Board, 
and  the  Christian  public  extensively,  will  unite  with  them  in  adoring 
the  goodness  of  the  Lord,  so  remarkably  displayed  in  the  signal  inter 
positions  of  his  providence  in  behalf  of  our  missionaries.  Under  Prov 
idence,  grateful  acknowledgments  are  due  to  the  Right  Honorable  Sir 
Evan  Nepean,  for  the  candor,  magnanimity,  and  kindness,  exhibited  in 
his  treatment  of  the  missionaries,  so  creditable  to  his  character,  as  a 
magistrate  and  a  Christian.  Nor  can  the  Committee  forbear  to  express 
their  high  sense  of  the  admirable  spirit  and  conduct  shewn  by  the  mis 
sionaries  themselves,  in  the  circumstances  of  severe  trial  in  which  they 
have  been  called  to  act.  The  evidence  here  exhibited  of  their  firm 
ness,  their  perseverance,  their  wisdom,  and  their  devotedness  to  the 
great  object  of  their  mission,  cannot  fail  to  raise  them  in  the  estimation 
and  affection  of  this  Board,  and  to  secure  to  them  the  confidence  and 
favor  of  the  Christian  public. 


1814.  REPORT.  89 

On  the  24th  of  Feb.  1813,  Mr.  Newell  embarked  at  the  Mauritius, 
on  board  a  Portuguese  brig,  bound  to  Bombay,  but  destined  to  touch  at 
Point  de  Galle  in  the  Island  of  Ceylon,  At  the  latter  place  he  expected 
to  meet  one  or  both  of  the  other  brethren;  but  on  his  arrival,  he  learned 
that  they  were  both  gone  to  Bombay.  Supposing,  however,  that  they 
would  not  be  allowed  to  remain  there,  he  thought  it  best  for  him  to  stay 
in  Ceylon,  where  he  was  assured  of  the  protection  and  favor  of  Governor 
Brownrigg,  and  other  principal  officers  of  the  government.  He  imme 
diately  despatched  a  letter  to  the  brethren  at  Bombay;  and  by  the  re 
turn  of  the  mail  he  received  an  answer  from  them,  from  which  he  learn 
ed,  that,  though  their  situation  at  Bombay  was  quite  precarious,  yet  they 
had  considerable  hope  that  they  should  be  allowed  to  establish  them 
selves  there,  and  thought  it  advisable  for  him  to  direct  his  studies  with  a 
view  to  that  place.  Accordingly,  as  soon  as  he  could  make  arrange^ 
ments  for  the  purpose,  he  commenced  the  study  of  the  Sangskrit,  Hin- 
doostanee,  and  Persian  languages;  and  quietly  pursued  this  study  until 
some  time  in  November,  when,  from  information  received  from  the 
brethren  in  Bombay,  he  felt  himself  compelled  to  give  up  all  hope  of  the 
establishment  of  the  mission  at  that  place.  From  the  time  of  his  ar 
rival  in  Ceylon,  however,  till  the  date  of  his  last  letter,  he  preached  in 
English  constantly,  once,  twice,  or  three  times  a  week,  to  English  and 
halt-cast  people;  of  whom,  he  says,  "there  are  thousands  in  and  about 
Colurnbo,  who  stand  in  need  of  instruction  as  much  as  the  heathen," 
and  among  whom  he  hoped  his  labors  would  not  be  in  vain.  At  the 
date  of  his  last  letter,  Mr.  Newell  supposed  that  his  brethren  were  ac 
tually  on  their  passage  to  England,  and  that  he  was  left  alone.  "Stript," 
says  he,  "of  all  my  domestic  enjoyments,  by  the  death  of  my  wife  and 
child,  and  separated  from  all  my  dear  missionary  associates,  I  find  my 
self  a  solitary  pilgrim  in  the  midst  of  a  heathen  land.  My  heart  is  some 
times  quite  overwhelmed  with  grief.  But  my  prevailing  desire  is,  and 
my  determination,  to  try  to  do  something  for  the  wretched  heathen 
around  me.  My  conviction  of  the  duty  and  practicability  of  evangeliz 
ing  the  heathen  has  not  been  diminished,  but  greatly  increased,  by  all 
that  I  have  witnessed  in  this  part  of  the  world."  Thus  circumstanced, 
he  was  undetermined  in  regard  to  the  field  in  which  to  fix  his  mission; 
whether  to  remain  in  Ceylon,  or  attempt  an  establishment  at  Bussora  at 
the  head  of  the  Persian  Gulf.  The  reasons  which  weighed  in  his  mind 
for  the  one  and  for  the  other,  he  states  at  large,  and  in  a  manner  which  in 
dicates  much  attention  and  reflection.  His  trials,  though  different  from 
those  of  his  brethren,  have  been  not  less  painful;  and  appear  to  have  been 
sustained  in  a  manner  not  less  creditable  to  the  character  of  a  Christian 
missionary.  He  must  have  been  greatly  rejoiced  to  learn,  as  he  doubt 
less  did  in  a  short  time,  that  his  brethren  had  not  been  sent  to  England, 
as  he  supposed;  and  if  they  have  been  permitted  to  remain  at  Bombay, 
he  has  probably  joined  them  there,  to  the  great  joy  of  them  all. 

Messrs.  Richards  and  Warren,  who,  at  the  time  of  our  last  annual 
meeting,  were,  as  then  reported,  in  very  eligible  situations  at  Philadel 
phia,  have  just  completed  their  respective  periods  of  engagement  there; 
and,  so  far  as  appears,  very  much  to  their  own  satisfaction,  and  to  the 
satisfaction  of  those  with  whose  patronage  and  friendly  offices  they 
have  been  favored. 


00  REPORT.  1814. 

Soon  after  our  last  annual  meeting,  Messrs.  Benjamin  C.  Meigs,  Burr 
Baldwin,  Horatio  Bard  well,  and  Daniel  Poor,  were  admitted  by  the 
Prudential  Committee,  as  candidates  for  our  missionary  service;  and 
since,  after  such  a  period  and  measure  of  trial  as  the  Committee  judged 
suitable,  they  have  all,  excepting  Mr.  Baldwin,  been  formally  received 
as  Missionaries,  to  be  under  the  patronage  and  direction  of  this  Board. 
Mr.  Baldwin  has  been  prevented  from  being  thus  received,  by  feeble 
health,  which  the  Committee  greatly  lament,  and  from  which  they  de 
voutly  hope  he  will  ere  long  be  recovered. 

Messrs,  Richards,  Warren,  Meigs,  Bardwell,  and  Poor,  will  hold  them 
selves  in  readiness  to  go  forth  to  forth  to  the  heathen  with  the  glad  tid 
ings  of  salvation,  as  soon  as  Providence  shall  open  the  door  for  their 
being  sent.  At  present  the  door  at  every  point  seems  to  be  closed  by 
the  war;  but  this  Board  and  the  friends  of  Christian  missions  will  not 
cease  to  pray,  that  the  war  may  soon  be  terminated;  nor  are  the  Com 
mittee  without  hope,  that,  should  it  continue,  some  way  will  neverthe 
less  be  found  out  for  the  conveyance  of  the  waiting  missionaries  to  their 
destined  fields  of  labor. 

From  three  other  young  gentlemen,  one  now  a  practising  physician  of 
distinguished  promise,  another  a  student  at  the  Theological  Seminary  at 
Princeton,  and  the  other  a  student  at  the  Theological  Seminary  at  An- 
dover,  the  Committee  have  received  very  pleasing  communications,  ex 
pressing  their  desire  to  be  engaged  in  the  missionary  service,  under  the 
direction  of  this  Board.  But  upon  these  applications,  as  they  are  yet 
quite  recent,  no  decisive  act  has  been  passed, 

It  will  appear,  by  the  statements  which  the  Treasurer  will  furnish,  that 
the  liberality  of  the  Christian  public  toward  this  Board  is  continued  and 
extended.  New  associations  are  formed  for  the  purpose  of  contributing 
their  aid.  The  number  of  pious  persons,  who  are  becoming  acquainted 
with  the  wants  and  the  miseries  of  the  heathen  world,  and  who  are  desir 
ous  of  uniting  their  efforts  to  remove  these  wants  and  alleviate  these  mis 
eries,  is  evidently  on  the  increase.  Your  Committee  have  reason  to  be 
lieve,  that  should  Providence  soon  prepare  the  way  for  the  establish 
ment  of  missionary  stations  in  different  pagan  countries,  an  adequate 
number  of  pious,  able,  devoted  servants  of  Christ  would  offer  themselves 
as  heralds  of  the  gospel  to  the  heathen,  and  the  means  would  not  be 
withheld  of  supporting  them  in  their  most  laborious,  as  well  as  most  be 
nevolent,  undertaking.  It  is  a  pleasing  thought,  and  one  which  may  be 
indulged  without  presumption,  that  the  Redeemer  will  graciously  bestow 
upon  Christians  in  America  the  honor  of  becoming  joyful  instruments 
in  promoting  his  cause,  and  advancing  the  progress  of  the  millennium, 
not  only  within  our  own  borders,  but  extensively  also  in  foreign  lands. 
How  noble  will  be  the  distinction,  should  we  be  known  as  a  people,  to 
the  inhabitants  of  distant  continents  and  islands,  not  as  covetous  of  ter 
ritory, — not  as  ambitious  of  political  dominion, — not  as  engrossed  by 
commerce  and  swallowed  up  by  the  cupidity  of  avarice; — but  as  the  lib 
eral  dispensers  of  unsearchable  riches,  as  cheerfully  and  zealously  im 
parting  to  others  God's  unmerited  bounty  to  ourselves. 

While  regarding  the  subject  in  this  point  of  light,  your  committee 
cannot  refrain  from  expressing  their  joy,  that  this  glorious  work  has  been 
begun; — that  it  has  been  formally  and  systematically  entered  upon  by 


1814.  REPORT.  91 

Christians  in  this  country; — that  missionaries,  in  the  employment  of  this 
Board,  have  been  engaged  on  the  shores  of  Asia,  in  preparing  to  preach 
to  the  people  in  their  own  languages; — that  the  Scriptures,  in  the  com 
mon  tongues  of  the  countries,  have  been  purchased  and  distributed,  as 
free-will  offering  to  God,  from  our  honorable  women,  our  young  men  and 
maidens,  our  old  men  and  children. 

It  ought  to  be  thankfully  noticed,  that  many  enlightened  persons  in 
India; — men  of  enlarged  views  and  great  acquaintance  with  the  world; — 
dignified  magistrates  and  persons  of  professional  eminence; — have  most 
unequivocally  and  earnestly  expressed  their  conviction  of  the  necessity  of 
missionaries,  and  their  sense  of  the  deplorable  condition  of  the  people  in 
a  moral  point  of  view.  Persons  of  this  description  have  joyfully  hailed 
the  co-operation  of  America,  in  the  great  work  of  evangelizing  mankind, 
as  a  most  desirable  event.  They  have  expressed  an  anxious  wish  that 
our  efforts  may  be  greatly  and  indefinitely  increased.  The  limits  of  this 
Report,  already  too  long  perhaps,  will  not  allow  your  Committee  to 
specify  all  the  facts  on  the  authority  of  which  these  assertions  are  made. 
Many  such  facts  have  appeared,  in  the  course  of  the  preceding  narra 
tion,  and  the  accompanying  documents. 

It  is  evident  also  from  every  page  of  the  correspondence  of  the  mis 
sionaries,  that  notwithstanding  all  their  discouragements  and  perplex 
ities,  they  have  been  more  and  more  convinced,  by  all  they  have  seen 
and  heard,  not  only  of  the  practicability  and  duty  of  supporting  mis 
sions,  but  of  its  being  their  particular  duty,  as  it  is  evidently  their  high 
est  pleasure,  to  consider  themselves  as  unalterably  devoted  to  this  work. 
They  are  also  convinced,  as  their  repeated  discussions  of  this  topic 
abundantly  prove,  that  whatever  may  be  the  design  of  Providence  in 
regard  to  themselves  or  their  mission,  it  is  the  duty  of  Christians  to  take 
it  for  granted,  that  the  cause  of  missions  will  prevail,  and  to  resolve, 
that  by  the  help  of  God,  and  with  all  reverential  submission  to  his  holy 
dispensations,  it  shall  prevail. 

The  agents  of  this  Board  in  London  have  remitted  to  Calcutta,  by 
the  earliest  opportunities,  the  avails  of  our  several  remittances  to  them. 
We  had  calculated,  that  our  missionaries  would  have  received  our  first 
remittance  at  an  earlier  date  than  that  of  their  last  letter,  as  this  remit 
tance  was  sent  from  London  by  the  earliest  spring  ships  of  1813.  It 
could  not,  we  think,  be  much  longer  delayed.  But,  through  the  kind 
ness  of  friends  whom  Providence  had  raised  up  for  them  in  every  place 
they  had  visited,  there  was  little  danger  that  our  brethren  would  be  put 
to  serious  inconvenience  by  any  accidental  delay  of  remittances. 

At  the  conclusion  of  their  Report,  the  Committee  would  direct  their 
respectful  attention  to  the  Christian  public.  They  need  not  solicit,  what 
will  be  granted  of  course  and  without  solicitation,  a  candid  perusal  of 
this  their  annual  communication  and  of  the  papers  which  follow  it.  All 
who  have  contributed  to  send  the  blessings  of  the  gospel  to  the  heathen; 
all  who  love  the  prosperity  of  Zion:  will  feel  a  deep  interest  in  the  history 
of  our  infant  mission,  and,  we  doubt  not,  will  perceive  the  necessity  of 
continued  and  persevering  exertions.  The  object  in  view  is  so  tran- 
scendantly  important,  as  not  to  admit  of  any  halting  or  hesitation  in  the 
pursuit,  while  any  prospect  of  success  remains.  Such  a  prospect  will 
remain,  we  are  persuaded,  without  suffering  even  a  temporary  eclipse, 


92  PECUNIARY    ACCOUNTS. APPENDIX    TO    REPORT.  1814. 

till  the  gospel  |shall  shed  its  benign  influence  on  every  land.  With 
thankful  acknowledgment  of  the  many  favors  shewn  by  the  Christian 
public  to  this  object,  and  of  the  many  prayers  offered  in  its  behalf,  the 
Committee  would  animate  their  fathers  and  brethren,  as  well  as  them 
selves,  with  the  exhortation,  Be  not  weary  in  well  doing;  for  in  due  sea 
son  we  shall  reap,  if  we  faint  not. 
New-Haven,  Sept.  15,  1814. 

PECUNIARY   ACCOUNTS. 

The  American  Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions  in  account  current  with  Jeremiah 
Evarts,  their  Treasurer,  Dr. 

To  caslvpaid  from  Sept.  1,  1813  to  Aug.  31,  1814,  in   conformity  lo   orders   of 
the  Board,  and  of  the  Prudential  Committee,  from  No.  53.  to  No.  79,  inclusive 
for  expenses  incurred  in  the  prosecution  of  the  objects  of  the  Board  ,$7,071  62 
To  losses  by  counterfeit  bills  received  in  donations        ...  6  00 — 7,077  62 

To  balance  carried^to  the  credit  of  new  account,  Sept.  1,  1814     -        -        -        13,467  53 

$20.545  15 
Contra  Cr. 
By  balance'^brought  to   the  credit  of  new  account,  Sept.  1,  1813,  as  appears  by 

the  Auditor's  certificate  of  Sept.  11,  1813     -        -        -        -      '  -        -        -       $8,077  59 
By  cash  received  in  donations,  as  particularly  published  in  the  Panoplist,  from 

"Sept.  1,1313  to  Aug.  31,  1814,  inclusive 12,00891 

By  cash  received  as  income  of  stock  and  interest  on  notes,  during  the  year  pre 
ceding  August  31,  1814,        45865 

$20,545  15 


APPENDIX    TO    REPORT. 

[On  the  day  after  their  arrival  at  Bombay,  Messrs.  Hall  and  Nott,  after  taking  suitable 
advice,  put  into  the  hands  of  Mr.  Money,  a  gentleman  of  that  place,  the  following  petition  to 
his  Excellencj",  the  Governor.] 

To  the  Right  Honorable   Sir  Evan  Nepean,  Governor  of  Bombay,  fyc. 

Right  Honorable  Sir, — The  undersigned,  lately  arrived  from  America 
by  way  of  Bengal,  beg  leave  to  state  to  your  Excellency,  that  having 
been  ordained  to  the  Gospel  ministry,  they  have  come  to  this  country 
with  a  desire  of  being  useful,  by  translating  the  Scriptures,  by  aiding  in 
the  education  of  children,  and  ultimately  by  making  known  the  gospel 
to  some  who  are  now  ignorant  of  it. 

Humbly  trusting  that  these  objects  will  meet  with  your  Excellency's 
approbation,  they  most  earnestly  beg,  that  they  may  be  allowed  to  pur 
sue  them.  At  the  same  time,  they  cherish  the  hope,  that  should  they  be 
permitted  to  remain  in  the  country,  an  orderly  and  prudent  conduct  will 
show,  that  your  Excellency's  indulgence  has  not  been  misplaced. 

They  are  happy  indeed,  Right  Honorable  Sir,  in  thus  presenting  the 
advancement  of  our  holy  religion  to  a  Christian  governor; — one,  too, 
who  has  given  so  many  proofs  of  a  desire  for  the  diffusion  of  the  Scrip 
tures,  and  the  promotion  of  happiness  among  mankind. 

They  have  the  honor  to  be,  with  the  highest  respect,  right  Honorable 
Sir,  your  most  obedient  and  most  humble  servants,  GORDON  HALL, 

Bombay,  Feb.  12,  1813.  SAMUEL  NOTT. 


1814.  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  93 

[On  visiting  the  police  office,  the  same  day  on  which  the  preceding  petition  was  forwarded, 
the  missionaries  were  told,  that  they  would  not  be  permitted  to  remain,  and  that  unfavorable 
impressions  concerning  them  had  been  made  upon  the  mind  of  this  government.  They  found 
themselves  charged  with  having  broken  their  word,  in  not  going  from  Calcutta  to  the" Isle  of 
France;  and  with  having  concealed  themselves  at  Calcutta,  while  the  police  officers  were  in 
search  of  them  to  put  them  on  board  ship  for  England.  For  the  purpose  of  refuting  these 
charges,  and  explaining  their  conduct,  they  drew  up  and  presented,  by  his  Excellency's  per 
mission,  the  following  memorial.] 

To  the  Right  Honorable  Sir  Evan  Nepean,  Governor  of  Bombay,  fyc. 

Bombay,  February  18,  1813. 

Right  Honorable  Sir, — We  have  heard  with  the  deepest  concern,  that 
your  Excellency  has  received  from  Bengal,  intelligence  deeply  injurious 
to  our  character,  as  men,  as  Christians,  and  especially  as  Ministers  of  the 
Gospel.  Our  concern  is  the  more  distressing,  when  we  consider  our 
solemn  responsibility  to  the  great  Head  of  the  Church,  and  the  high  im 
portance  that  the  missionary  character  should  stand  without  reproach; 
especially  in  a  region  like  this,  where  the  forfeiting  of  that  character 
must  be  attended  with  circumstances  so  truly  deplorable.  We  beg, 
therefore,  your  Excellency's  indulgent  consideration  of  the  following 
statement  of  our  conduct. 

When  we  left  America,  as  your  Excellency  will  perceive  by  our  letter 
of  instructions,  a  copy  of  which  we  take  the  liberty  of  sending  here 
with,  our  destination  was  not  precisely  fixed;  but  was  left  for  our  subse 
quent  decision.  On  arriving  at  Calcutta,  our  first  object  was  to  obtain 
such  information  as  would  enable  us  to  decide  with  discretion.  But  from 
representations  made  to  us  at  that  time,  we  were  induced  to  believe,  that 
we  should  not  be  allowed  to  remain  in  the  Honorable  Company's  domin 
ions.  An  order  from  government,  received  about  a  week  after  our  ar 
rival,  which  order  included  Messrs.  Johns,  Lawson,  and  May,  three  Eng 
lish  missionaries,  and  Mr.  Rice,  an  American,  increased  our  fears.  We 
doubted  whether  we  should  be  allowed  to  leave  the  Honorable  Compa 
ny's  dominions  for  any  place  east  of  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope;  and,  if  for 
any,  supposed  it  would  be  for  the  Isle  of  France  alone.  With  these 
views  we  presented  the  petition  marked  No.  I.* 

When  this  petition  was  handed,  Mr.  Martinf  objected  to  the  present 
ing  of  it;  and  said,  that  the  order  of  government  was  positive  for  our 
return  to  America; — that  we  must  depart  upon  our  own  ship,  but  that  she 
might  carry  us  whither  she  liked. 

In  the  course  of  a  week  from  this,  we  received  an  answer  from  gov 
ernment,  stating,  that  our  assurances  of  going  to  the  Isle  of  France  were 
accepted;  but  that  we  must  expect  to  be  at  the  disposal  of  the  govern 
ment  of  that  island. 

After  this,  we  continued  in  the  expectation  of  going  to  the  Isle  of 
France,  for  about  two  months.  We  were  endeavoring  to  obtain  a  pas 
sage,  when  we  were  taken  sick.  As  soon  as  we  recovered,  we  renewed 
our  endeavors,  engaged  our  passage  in  the  ship  Adele,  and  paid  for  it  as 
early  as  the  17th  of  September,  at  which  time  we  were  expecting  the 
Adele  to  sail  in  a  few  days,  though  she  did  not  till  about  the  middle  of 
the  following  month. 

*  See  No.  I.  at  the  close  of  this  Memorial. 

f  Mr.  Martin  was  the  chief  magistrate  of  police. 


34  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  1814. 

During  our  delay  at  Calcutta,  the  causes  of  which  we  have  now  ex 
plained,  we  were  led  by  observation  to  believe,  that  our  fears  had  been 
premature:  for  we  found  Missionaries,  who  had  been  ordered  away,  no 
less  positively  than  ourselves,  nevertheless  residing  quietly  in  Bengal;  and 
we  ascertained  the  same  to  be  true  of  others  in  India.  We  therefore 
began  to  hope,  that,  had  we  pursued  a  different  plan,  we  might  have  been 
allowed  to  go  to  the  place,  which  our  inquiries  should  incline  us  to  choose. 
Several  reasons  at  length  inducing  us  to  desire  to  go  to  Ceylon,  rather 
than  to  the  Isle  of  France,  we  prepared  the  annexed  petition,  No.  II;* 
but,  lest  we  should  presume  too  much  on  the  indulgence  of  government, 
we  at  the  same  time  pursued  our  arrangements,  intending,  should  that 
petition  be  rejected,  to  proceed,  according  to  our  original  plan,  to  the 
Isle  of  France.  The  petition,  when  delivered  at  the  Police,  was  carried 
by  the  clerk  to  Mr.  Martin,  who  was  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  room, 
and  who  replied,  through  the  same  clerk,  "that  it  was  unnecessary  to 
present  that  petition,  and  that  he  would  give  us  a  pass  at  any  time."  The 
question  was  asked  by  Mr.  Hall,  'Should  we  go  to  Ceylon,  instead  of  the 
Isle  of  France,  would  that  be  equally  acceptable  to  government?'  and 
was  answered  in  the  affirmative. 

The  petition  was  withdrawn;  and  we  did  all  in  our  power  to  obtain  a 
passage  for  Ceylon.  But  before  we  could  obtain  one,  we  were  summoned 
to  the  Police;  and  our  reasons  were  demanded  for  not  having  gone  to  the 
Isle  of  France.  Our  reply  was,  that  we  had  been  endeavoring  to  go 
thither,  till  we  had  learnt  from  the  Police,  that  a  pass  might  be  obtained 
equally  well  for  Ceylon;  and  that  we  were  then  seeking  for  an  opportu 
nity  to  depart  for  that  island.  We  did  not  at  this,  or  at  any  other  time, 
say,  at  the  Police,  nor  to  any  person  whomsoever,  that  our  delay  of  going 
to  the  Isle  of  France  was  for  want  of  opportunities.  Nor  could  we  have 
said  this  without  obviously  appearing  to  many,  who  well  knew  our  pro 
ceedings,  to  be  totally  destitute  of  every  principle  of  honor  and  religion. 

Notwithstanding  all  our  efforts,  we  found  no  opportunity  of  going  to 
Ceylon;  nor  could  we  hope  for  one,  we  were  told,  earlier  than  the  Janu 
ary  fleet.  In  the  mean  time,  it  had  been  suggested  to  us,  that  Mr.  Mar 
tin  would  probably  give  a  general  pass  from  Bengal,  without  specifying 
any  particular  place.  We  supposed,  from  what  he  had  said  respecting 
his  giving  a  pass,  that  a  pass  from  him,  and  not  a  formal  permission 
from  government,  was  a  regular  departure.  Whether  such  a  pass  could 
be  obtained  we  did  indeed  doubt;  but  we  were  encouraged  to  make  the 
attempt  in  the  confidence,  that  to  fail  could  not  injure  us,  and  that,  should 
we  succeed,  in  the  voice  of  the  police  we  should  have  the  voice  of  gov 
ernment;  particularly  as  the  police  had  been  the  only  organ  of  govern 
ment  to  us. 

Our  application  succeeded;  and  on  the  faith  of  our  passes,  "to  depart 
in  the  ship  Commerce,  Capt.  Arbuthnot,"  we  proceeded  to  make  our  ar 
rangements;  esteeming  it  a  great  favor  that  we  had  obtained  permission 
to  depart,  though  it  gave  us  no  right  of  remaining  in  the  place  to  which 
we  intended  to  go.  Our  friends  expressed  their  happiness  at  our  suc- 
-cess;  among  whom  were  some,  in  whose  judgment  we  thought  it  safe 
to  confide. 

*  See  No.  II.,  at  the  close  of  this  Memorial. 


1814.  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  95 

The  passes  now  in  the  hands  of  R.  T.  Goodwin,  Esq.,*  were  obtained 
on  the  10th  of  November,  with  the  expectation  that  the  ship  would  sail 
in  four  or  five  days.  On  Saturday  the  13th,  a  part  of  our  baggage  was 
put  on  board.  On  Tuesday  morning,  the  16th,  we  paid  our  passage  to 
the  captain's  agent,  and,  in  the  afternoon  of  the  same  day,  we  were  un 
expectedly  summoned  to  attend  at  the  Police,  which  we  did  the  next 
morning,  with  Messrs.  Rice  and  Judson,  who  had  received  a  like  sum 
mons.  We  then  received  a  communication  from  government,  stating, 
that  on  account  of  our  having  failed  to  go  to  the  Isle  of  France,  we  were 
considered  as  having  forfeited  all  claim  to  the  further  indulgence  of  gov 
ernment;  and  directing  the  Police  to  correspond  with  the  Marine  Board, 
concerning  the  provision  for  our  departure  for  England,  in  the  fleet  under 
despatch.  The  fleet,  we  were  informed,  was  to  sail  within  five  days, 
which  would  allow  no  more  than  three  days  to  prepare  for  a  voyage  to 
England. 

After  reading  the  order,  Mr.  Nott  mentioned  to  Mr.  Martin  his  cir 
cumstances,  and  asked,  whether  the  order  of  government  would  interfere 
with  his  previous  arrangements,  and  prevent  his  departing  according  to 
his  pass?  The  reply  wasr  "Certainly;  the  order  of  government  is  posi 
tive."  Mr.  Martin  then  mentioned  the  opportunities  there  had  been  of 
going  to  the  Isle  of  France,  which  had  been  neglected;  and  added,  that 
he  had  always  told  him,  that  he  would  have  to  go  to  the  Isle  of  France  or 
England.  Neither  of  us,  however,  had  heard  our  going  to  England 
mentioned  before. 

We  were  directed  by  the  person  who  went  with  us  from  the  Police,  to 
give  information  should  we  change  our  place  of  residence;  and  were 
also  advised  by  him  to  write  to  Mr.  Martin  concerning  our  families,  as 
they  had  not  been  noticed  in  the  orders  of  government.  This  advice, 
however,  we  did  not  follow,  as  we  immediately  formed  the  plan  of  mak 
ing  the  annexed  address  to  the  Right  Honorable  the  Governor  General, 

Concluding  from  the  unexpected  orders,  that,  if  we  applied,  we  should 
not  perhaps  be  permitted  to  proceed  to  Bombay,  we  resolved  to  attempt 
to  obtain  liberty  to  go  to  Point  de  Galle,  where  the  captain  was  so  oblig 
ing  as  to  promise  to  put  us  on  shore.  With  these  views  we  prepared  the 
petition,  No.  IH.t 

After  this  paper  had  received  the  approbation  of  some  of  our  friends, 
we  went  on  Thursday  morning  to  Barrackpore,  for  the  purpose  of  pre 
senting  it  to  his  Lordship.  The  Hon.  Mr.  Elliot,  his  Lordship's  private 
secretary,  upon  reading  the  first  sentence,  observed,  that  as  it  related  to 
an  order  in  council,  his  Lordship  would  not  receive  it  in  his  private 
capacity.  We  mentioned  the  urgency  of  the  case,  and  requested  him 
on  that  account  to  deliver  it;  but  he  refused,  and  advised  us  to  hand  it 
to  the  secretary  to  whose  department  it  belonged.  We  left  him  without 
his  probably  knowing  who  we  were,  and  returned  to  Calcutta. 

Having  found  upon  inquiry,  that  the  meeting  of  the  council  was  post 
poned  till  after  the  time  appointed  for  the  sailing  of  the  fleet,  we  did  not 
hand  our  petition  to  the  secretary,  according  to  the  Hon.  Mr.  Elliot's 
advice;  but  resolved  to  embrace  the  doubtful  but  only  alternative  of 

*  Mr.  Goodwin  is  chief  magistrate  of  police  at  Bombay. 
t  See  No.  III.,  at  the  close  of  this  Memerial. 


96  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  1814. 

embarking  on  board  the  Commerce,  according  to  our  previous  arrange 
ments  and  our  passports,  should  we  find,  that  the  captain  had  reported 
us  to  the  police  as  his  passengers  and  obtained  the  port-clearance  for  his 
ship.  Upon  inquiry  we  found  that  he  had  not.  We  therefore  delayed 
our  embarkation  till  Friday  noon,  when  the  captain  showed  us  his  cer 
tificate,  (which  he  can  doubtless  now  show,)  that  he  had  reported  us  to 
the  police,  agreeably  to  the  orders  of  the  Governor  General  in  Council; 
and  likewise  told  us,  that  the  ship  was  cleared  out  at  the  custom-house, 
and  would  probably  sail  the  next  day.  We  then  completed  our  ar 
rangements,  and  went  on  board  the  same  day.  Till  we  went  on  board, 
we  were  either  at  our  known  place  of  abode,  or  moving  publicly  about 
Calcutta  on  our  necessary  business.  We  did  not  give  information  of  our 
going  on  board  to  the  Police,  because  our  having  obtained  a  pass,  and 
the  captain  having  reported  us  on  that  very  day  as  his  passengers,  fur 
nished  them,  we  supposed,  with  sufficient  means  of  knowing  where  we 
were. 

Though  both  the  captain  and  the  agent  had  told  us,  that  the  ship 
would  sail  the  next  day,  yet  she  remained  at  her  moorings  till  Monday 
morning,  when  we  proceeded  down  the  river.  We  imputed  our  not 
being  sent  for  to  the  intention,  and  not  to  the  ignorance,  of  the  Police. 

On  this  statement  of  the  circumstances  of  our  leaving  Calcutta,  we  beg 
leave  to  remark,  that  we  did  diligently  endeavor  to  obtain  an  audience 
from  government  till  it  appeared  that  no  audience  could  be  obtained  be 
fore  too  late  an  hour;  that  considering  our  passes,  and  particularly  the 
captain's  report  to  the  police,  which  was  made  after  the  same  police  had 
communicated  the  orders  of  government  to  us,  we  did  consider  ourselves 
as  acting  with  regularity,  and  presumed,  when  we  found  ourselves  suf 
fered  to  -proceed,  that  the  police,  as  we  were  now  manifestly  on  the 
point  of  leaving  Bengal,  were  not  disposed  to  carry  their  inquiries  any 
farther. 

Though  we  had  not  succeeded  in  presenting  the  above-mentioned 
petition  to  Lord  Minto,  we  still  intended  to  stop  at  Ceylon,  supposing 
that  a  fresh  departure  from  that  island  might  be  more  favorable  to  our 
reception  in  Bombay,  than  to  arrive  directly  from  Bengal.  But  as  Bom 
bay  continued  to  be  the  place  of  our  desire;  as  the  government  of  Ben 
gal  had  suffered  us  to  proceed,  while  considering  us,  as  we  supposed, 
bound  to  Bombay;  as  we  met  with  a  long  and  unexpected  delay  on  the 
coast;  and  as  our  funds  were  low;  we  concluded  to  proceed  directly 
to  this  place. 

We  beg  leave  to  express  our  fears,  that  some  appearance  of  incon 
sistency  in  us  may  have  arisen  from  a  mistaken  connexion  of  us  with 
our  two  brethren;*  from  whom  we  lived  at  considerable  distance  apart; 
with  whose  plans  we  were  unconnected;  and  from  whose  business  at  the 
Police  ours  was  generally  distinct  and  different.  Your  Excellency  will 
readily  perceive,  that  such  a  connexion,  though  the  conduct  of  each, 
severally,  might  be  explained,  would  give  an  appearance  of  inconsistency 
to  both. 

The  above  we  declare  to  be  a  full  statement  of  our  conduct,  in  rela 
tion  to  the  government  of  Bengal;  the  truth  of  which  is  known  to  many 

*  Messrs.  Rice  and  Judson.    ED. 


1814.  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  97 

of  our  friends,  with  whom  our  conversations  have  been  frequent  and  par 
ticular.  That  we  have  acted  with  integrity,  we  have  the  testimony  of 
our  own  consciences.  That  we  have  guided  our  affairs  with  discretion, 
we  will  not  say.  But  if  the  above  statement  exhibits  indiscretions,  we 
hope  they  will  appear  to  be  such  as  have  arisen,  not  from  rashness  and 
obstinacy,  but  from  an  honest  zeal  in  what  we  considered  as  laudable 
objects,  and  from  the  ignorance  of  strangers  in  a  strange  land.  Above 
all,  we  hope,  Right  Honorable  Sir,  that  our  intentions  will  appear  to 
have  been  good,  and  our  conduct  such  as  not  to  have  cast  a  deserved 
reproach  upon  our  holy  religion,  nor  to  have  destroyed  our  character  as 
ministers  of  Jesus,  in  the  interests  of  whose  church  we  believe  your  Ex 
cellency  to  feel  deeply  concerned. 

Having  said  these  necessary  things,  respecting  our  characters  and 
conduct,  we  beg  your  Excellency's  further  indulgence,  while  we  submit 
at  large  the  objects  we  desire  to  pursue  in  this  place. 

Our  great  and  general  object  is  the  diffusion  of  Christian  knowledge 
and  Christian  morals.  In  attempting  this,  we  should  consider  our  first 
step  to  be  the  acquisition  of  the  language  of  the  country,  which,  in  a 
tolerable  degree,  we  suppose,  must  occupy  the  greatest  part  of  our  time 
for  two  or  three  years.  During  this  time  we  should  hope  to  be  useful, 
by  the  instruction  of  schools  composed  either  of  European  or  half-cast 
children,  or  by  teaching  the  English  language  to  the  natives  themselves. 
While  engaged  in  the  acquisition  of  the  language,  we  should  hope  to 
be  useful  in  our  intercourse  with  the  people,  particularly  the  lower  class 
es;  giving  religious  instruction  to  such  as  should  be  inclined  to  receive 
it;  and,  finally,  should  we  be  allowed  to  remain,  it  would  be  our  inten 
tion  to  do  all  in  our  power  to  forward  the  translation  of  the  Scriptures 
into  the  Mahratta  language;  and,  perhaps,  should  our  lives  be  spared, 
into  the  Guzerattee  likewise;  with  the  hope  that  by  our  feeble  endeavors 
some  might  be  induced  to  embrace  them  as  the  word  of  life,  and  become 
partakers  of  the  unsearchable  riches  of  Christ,  which  are  such  an  ines 
timable  blessing  to  Christian  countries. 

This  statement  we  cheerfully  submit  to  your  Excellency,  hoping  that 
our  conduct  has  not  forfeited,  and  that  our  object  claims,  your  Excel 
lency's  indulgence;  and  that  we  shall  not  be  under  the  painful  necessity 
of  relinquishing  an  object,  in  which  so  many  Christian  friends  are  so 
deeply  interested. 

With  sentiments  of  the  highest  respect,  Right  Honorable  Sir,  we  are 
your  Excellency's  most  obedient,  and  most  humble  servants, 

GORDON  HALL, 
SAMUEL  NOTT. 

No.  I. 
To  the  Honorable  the  Governor  General,  in  Council. 

WE  the  undersigned,  passengers  lately  arrived  on   board  the  Ameri 
can  ship  Harmony,  having  received  an  order  to  depart  out  of  the  coun 
try  on  board  the  same  ship,  beg  leave  to  state,  that  agreeably  to  our  in 
tention,  stated  at  the  Police  on  our  arrival,  of  leaving  the  Company's 
13 


98  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  1814. 

dominions,  we  request  liberty  to  depart,  by  the  earliest  opportunity,  for 
the  Isle  of  France;  and  therefore  that  the  Harmony  may  not  be  refused 
a  clearance  on  our  account.  LUTHER  RICE, 

GORDON  HALL, 
Calcutta,  Aug.  21,  1812.  SAMUEL  NOTT, 

No.  II. 
To  the  Right  Honorable  Lord  Minto*  Governor  General,  in  Council. 

THE  undersigned,  having  been  detained  by  sickness  and  other  causes 
from  going  to  the  Isle  of  France,  as  permitted  about  two  months  ago, 
and  now  wishing  to  depart  to  Ceylon,  beg  permission  to  pass  out  of  the 
Honorable  Company's  dominions  to  that  island.  GORDON  HALL, 

Calcutta,  Oct.  17,  1812.  SAMUEL  NOTT. 

No.  III. 
To  the  Right  Honorable  Gilbert  Lord  Minto,  Governor  General 

THE  undersigned,  having  read  at  the  Police  the  orders  respecting  their 
going  to  England,  wherein  they  are  said  to  have  forfeited  all  claim  to 
the  further  indulgence  of  government,  by  not  having  gone  to  the  Isle  of 
France,  beg  leave  to  solicit  your  Lordship's  attention  to  the  causes  of 
their  delay,  and  to  their  present  circumstances. 

As  early  as  the  middle  of  September,  and  as  soon  as  they  had  recov 
ered  from  the  sickness  into  which  they  fell  on  their  arrival,  they  engag 
ed  their  passage  on  the  ship  Adele,  bound  to  the  Isle  of  France,  which 
was  to  sail  in  the  course  of  that  month,  but  was  detained  till  sometime 
after  the  date  of  the  enclosed  petition.! 

Information  received  during  this  delay  led  them  to  wish  to  go  to  Cey 
lon;  and  two  days  after  its  date  they  conveyed  the  enclosed  petition  to 
C.  F.  Martin,  Esq.  to  be  presented  to  government;  intending  to  proceed 
immediately  to  the  Isle  of  France,  if  that  petition  should  be  denied. 
They  were  informed  by  Mr.  Martin,  that  it  was  unnecessary  to  present 
that  petition,  and  that  he  would  give  them  a  pass  at  any  time.  Accord 
ingly  the  petition  was  withdrawn,  the  design  of  going  to  the  Isle  of 
France  relinquished,  and  they  endeavored  to  find  an  opportunity  to  go  to 
Ceylon.  Not  finding  any  prospect  of  a  ship  going  directly  to  Ceylon, 
they  made  application  on  the  10th  inst  at  the  Police  for  a  pass  to  depart 
on  the  ship  Commerce,  which  pass  was  granted  them,  and  on  the  faith 
of  it,  they  have  paid  their  passage,  put  part  of  their  baggage  on  board, 
and  are  expecting  daily  that  the  ship  will  sail. 

After  what  had  been  said  on  presenting  the  enclosed  petition  to  the 
Police,  and  after  having  obtained  the  pass,  they  supposed  they  might  in- 

*  Lord  Minto  administered  the  government  of  Bengal  for  six  years.  His  term  of  office  ex 
pired  sometime  in  1813,  and  lie  sailed  for  England  probably  in  December  last.  Late  English 
papers  mention  his  death  soon  after  he  reached  home,  aged  53.  About  the  3"ear  1788,  then 
Sir  Gilbert  Elliot,  he  was  an  active  member  of  the  British  House  of  Commons.  He  is  suc 
ceeded,  in  the  government  of  the  Company's  dominions,  bvLord  Rloira,  known  as  Lord  Raw- 
don,  in  the  American  revolutionary  war. 

t  See  No.  II. 


1814.  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  99 

nocently  and  safely  make  their  arrangements  for  departure.  The  ar 
rangements  are  made;  the  ship  is  ready  to  drop  down  the  river,  and 
convey  them  to  Point  de  Galle,  where  she  would  leave  them. 

We  humbly  beg  of  your  Lordship,  that  in  consideration  of  our  present 
circumstances,  the  order  of  government  may  not  be  carried  into  effect 
on  us,  and  that  we  may  be  freed  from  the  very  serious  inconvenience  of 
a  voyage  to  England. 

Your  Lordship's  most  obedient  and  most  humble  servants, 

GORDON  HALL, 

Calcutta,  November  18,  1812.  SAMUEL  NOTT. 


[When  the  missionaries  were  brought  back  to  Bombay,  they  heard  that  they  had  been  con 
sidered  as  prisoners  of  war,  and  were  charged  with  having"  violated  a  parole.  This  charge 
they  refute  in  the  first  part  of  the  following  memorial.  The  refutation  proved  to  be  unneces 
sary,  as  the  Governor  explicitly  declared,  after  reading  it,  that  he  had  never  considered  them 
as  prisoners  of  war,  nor  as  bound  by  a  parole  They  were  judicious,  however,  in  meeting  a 
charge  of  so  serious  a  nature,  and  which  they  had  reason  to  suppose  had  received  some  sanc 
tion  from  persons  in  authority.  It  had  even  been  surmised  in  Bombay,  that  they  were  polit 
ical  spies. 

The  concluding  part  of  the  memorial  will  speak  to  the  understanding,  the  conscience,  and 
the  feelings,  of  every  reader.] 

Copy  of  a  Letter  to  the  Right  Honorable,  the  Governor,  dated  Bombay  Harbor,  on 
board  the  Honorable  Company's  cruiser  Ternate,  Dec.  4,  1833. 

To  the  Right  Honorable  Sir  Evan  Nepean,  Baronet,  Governor,  &c.  &c.  &c.  of  Bombay. 

RIGHT  HONORABLE  SIR, — It  has  pleased  a  wise  and  Holy  Providence 
to  return  us  to  this  place,  and  in  circumstances  on  many  accounts  ex 
tremely  unpleasant.  But  we  have  learnt  with  peculiar  distress,  that  your 
Excellency,  besides  having  felt  officially  obliged  to  interrupt  our  voyage, 
on  which  we  were  well  advanced  towards  the  Island  of  Ceylon,  has  con 
ceived  our  conduct  to  have  been  inconsistent  with  the  duties  of  our  pro 
fession,  and  with  the  obligations  arising  from  the  indulgence  and  atten 
tions,  which  we  had  the  honor  to  receive  from  your  Excellency,  during 
our  stay  in  Bombay. 

Did  the  present  case  concern  ourselves  merely,  and  were  the  conse 
quences  depending  on  its  decision  to  fall  on  us  alone,  we  are  happy  in 
the  belief,  that  your  Excellency  is  not  one  of  those  ungracious  rulers, 
who  condemn  without  allowing  the  accused  to  be  heard  in  his  own  de 
fence.  But  with  how  much  greater  confidence  ought  we  to  hope  and 
pray  for  an  indulgent  and  attentive  hearing,  while  we  stand  so  highly 
impeached  as  the  ministers  of  Jesus — the  living  God.  If  we  have  de 
parted  from  the  path  of  Christian  simplicity  and  innocence; — if  we  have 
prostituted  the  confidence,  inspired  by  our  sacred  office,  to  the  base 
purpose  of  deception; — if,  under  the  cover  of  zeal  for  God,  we  have 
dared  to  engage  in  the  infamous  designs  of  political  intrigue,  we  have 
wounded  our  Savior,  in  the  house  of  his  friends; — we  have  brought  an 
awful  scandal  on  the  Christian  name,  and  done  what  tends  to  destroy 
all  confidence  in  the  missionary  character,  and  to  delay  that  period, 
which  is  the  object  of  Christian  nope,  when  the  heathen  shall  all  be 
gathered  unto  Christ. 


100  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  1814. 

As  these  mournful  consequences  must  follow  necessarily  upon  our 
guilt,  we  should  be  uncharitable  indeed  to  believe,  that  your  Excellency, 
whose  standing  is  so  high,  not  only  in  the  political  but  in  the  religious 
world,  and  whose  decision  on  the  subject  is  of  such  great  importance, 
would  not,  like  ourselves,  earnestly  desire  that  our  characters,  if  pos 
sible,  should  stand  without  reproach. 

Whether  we  can  say  any  thing  to  remove,  or  even  extenuate,  our  im 
puted  crime  and  guilt,  is  not  for  us  to  decide.  It  is  the  prerogative  of 
Him,  who  has  seen  all  that  we  have  done,  and  before  whom  our  con 
duct  is  sealed  up  for  judgment  and  eternity.  We  do,  however,  hope, 
that  after  having  read  what  we  now  desire  to  offer,  your  Excellency 
will  at  least  believe  we  have  acted  with  Christian  honesty,  integrity,  and 
zeal,  though  our  zeal  should  still  seem  to  have  been  inordinate,  and  our 
measures  indiscreet. 

We  have  understood  that  we  are  charged  with  having  violated  the  obli 
gations  of  a  parole — obligations  so  universally  held  sacred,  and  which  so 
materially  mitigate  the  calamities  of  war.  We  confess,  that,  we  are  in 
a  great  measure  ignorant  of  the  laws  of  nations;  and  are  sensible,  that 
ever  since  we  have  been  in  this  country,  we  have  been  exposed  to  nu 
merous  though  involuntary  errors  in  those  painful  transactions  relative  to 
Government,  which,  as  ministers  of  peace,  we  had  little  reason  to  expect. 
If  we  have  violated  the  obligations  of  parole,  we  have  certainly  done  it 
through  ignorance;  though  we  did  not  act  without  careful  consideration. 

We  had  been  warned,  as  your  Excellency  has  seen,  by  our  Reverend 
and  beloved  Patrons  at  home,  and  we  were  disposed  most  entirely  our 
selves,  to  be  particularly  cautious  in  our  conduct,  on  account  of  the 
unhappy  war  in  which  our  country  is  engaged.  We  felt  therefore  under 
peculiar  obligations  to  examine  the  subject  according  to  our  ability;  and 
it  appears  to  us  in  the  following  light. 

We  were  originally  ordered  to  leave  the  country,  long  before  any  in 
telligence  of  the  war  had  arrived  in  India;  and  the  same  orders  includ 
ed  unimpeached  and  well  recommended  English  missionaries,  in  pre 
cisely  the  same  terms  as  ourselves:  for  both  which  reasons  we  could  not 
consider  these  orders  as  having  any  relation  to  our  national  character, 
and  much  less  as  making  us  prisoners  of  war,  or  afterwards  to  be 
exercised  upon  us  as  such. 

On  our  arrival  at  Bombay,  we  were  informed  by  R.  T.  Goodwin,  Esq. 
the  chief  magistrate  of  Police,  that  Government  would  not  allow  us  to 
remain  in  the  country,  on  account  of  orders  which  had  been  received 
from  Bengal.  These  orders  must  have  left  Calcutta  before  any  intelli 
gence  of  war  had  reached  that  place,  having  then  but  just  arrived  over 
land  at  Bombay.  Mr.  Goodwin's  communication  to  us  therefore  did  not, 
as  we  conceive,  regard  us  as  prisoners  of  war;  nor  did  he  intimate,  that 
we  were  to  be  considered  as  such.  He  directed  us  to  procure  ourselves 
a  passage  to  England,  and  to  give  him  information  of  our  place  of  resi 
dence.  We  replied,  that  we  had  not  the  means  of  procuring  ourselves  a 
passage  to  England.  We  certainly  did  not  suppose,  that  what  passed  at 
this  time  amounted,  either  to  an  express,  or  an  implied,  parole;  that  we 
had  laid  ourselves  under  any  of  the  obligations,  or  that  we  were  to  enjoy 
any  of  the  peculiar  privileges  of  a  parole.  Nor  did  we  suppose,  that  the 
liberty,  with  which  we  left  the  office,  resulted  from  any  thing  which  had 


1814.  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  101 

been  transacted  there;  much  less  from  any  peculiar  confidence  reposed 
in  us,  as  we  were  then  under  severe  censure. 

We  had  other  reasons  for  supposing  we  were  entirely  free  from  the 
ohligations  of  a  parole.  We  did  indeed  think,  that  no  one  could  con 
sider  us  to  be  under  such  obligations,  while  we  did  not  enjoy  the  provi 
sion  usually  made  for  prisoners  of  war;  while  we  were  defraying  expenses 
exceeding  our  means,  and  while  expecting  to  be  sent  to  a  land  of 
strangers,  without  the  prospect  of  a  provision  there. 

Besides,  we  have  been  led  frequently  to  inquire,  whether  peaceably 
behaved  gentlemen,  being  found  in  a  civilized  state,  at  the  commence 
ment  of  a  war  between  that  state  and  their  own,  are  usually  considered 
as  prisoners  of  war. — We  were  uniformly  answered  "No." — And  from 
the  nature  of  the  case,  as  well  as  numerous  facts,  we  supposed  "No," 
the  only  rational  answer. 

But  we  certainly  had  a  higher  reason  for  believing  that  we  were  not  to 
be  considered  as  prisoners  of  war.  We  had  declared  ourselves — and 
our  declaration  had  received  the  confidence  of  your  Excellency,  and  of 
the  Governor  General — to  be  the  Ambassadors  of  the  Prince  of  Peace, 
employed  in  his  service,  and  devoted  to  that  alone.  We  knew  that  we 
were  parties  in  no  war,  and  we  believed  that  we  were  the  friends  of  all 
men.  We  thought  we  could  not  be  considered  as  prisoners  of  war,  while 
adhering  to  the  peaceable  maxims  of  our  Divine  Lord — the  common  Re 
deemer — the  God  of  England  and  America,  before  whom  both  nations, 
and  all  nations,  are  as  one. 

Shortly  after  our  arrival  in  Bombay,  we  presented  to  your  Excellency  a 
statement  of  our  proceedings  in  Bengal,  and  of  the  object  of  our  mis 
sion;  accompanied  by  the  official  instructions  under  which  we  were  to 
act.  The  liberality  and  kindness,  with  which  your  Excellency  was 
pleased  to  view  these  documents,  exacted  our  gratitude,  and  animated 
our  hearts.  Distressing  as  our  circumstances  had  been,  and  conscious 
as  we  were  of  the  integrity  of  our  hearts,  and  the  sacredness  of  our  ob 
ject,  we  received  your  Excellency's  favor  as  a  blessing  from  Heaven;  we 
indulged  the  most  pleasing  hopes;  we  thanked  God,  and  took  courage. 

The  attention  your  Excellency  was  pleased  to  bestow  upon  our  sub 
sequent  addresses,  we  thankfully  acknowledge.  The  indulgent  confi 
dence  with  which  you  viewed  us,  and  the  kind  attentions  which  we  con 
tinually  received,  were  flattering  to  our  hearts,  and  increased  our  desire 
of  doing  that,  and  that  only,  which  should  be  agreeable  to  you.  But 
while  they  attached  our  hearts,  we  should  have  mistaken  their  intention, 
had  we  considered  them  as  shown  for  our  personal  merits,  and  not  as  the 
effusions  of  a  pious  and  liberal  mind,  and  to  us  as  ministers  of  the  gos 
pel,  for  our  work's  sake. 

While,  however,  in  all  our  requests  to  your  Excellency,  we  solicited 
what  we  thought  would  be  for  the  honor  of  Christ,  we  never  had  occasion 
to  ask  for  a  greater  degree  of  personal  liberty,  than  we  at  first  enjoyed. 
From  the  time  of  our  first  visit  to  the  Police,  we  were  not  aware  that  any 
additional  liberty  was  granted,  any  new  restrictions  added,  any  old  one 
removed,  any  pledge  required,  or  that  any  act  of  our  own  laid  us  under 
any  restraining  obligation,  not  to  be  found  in  the  nature  of  our  character 
as  Christians,  or  our  office  as  ministers  of  the  gospel.  We  were  not 
aware  of  any  other  difference  made  in  our  relation  to  Government,  than 


102  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  1814, 

that  which  arose  from  an  orderly  and  Christian  conduct,  and  from  those 
high  and  unsolicited  attentions,  which  were  never  due  to  us  as  men,  but 
only  to  the  ministerial  character,  which  we  hope  was  unsullied  before  we 
left  Bombay. 

Your  Excellency  will  allow  us  to  express  our  honest  belief,  that  the 
liberty  we  had,  when  we  left  Bombay,  was  the  same  that  was  given  us 
before  we  had  made  any  communications  to  you,  or  had  received  those 
kind  attentions  which  we  most  thankfully  acknowledge.  We  of  course 
felt  ourselves  under  obligations  to  act,  not  as  American  prisoners  on 
parole,  but  as  missionaries  of  Jesus,  and  to  regulate  ourselves  by  the 
inspired  directions  and  holy  examples,  which  are  to  guide  the  ministers 
of  the  cross. 

In  thus  considering  ourselves,  we  felt  indeed  as  having  in  general 
terms  the  sanction  of  your  Excellency;  whom  we  had  understood  to  say, 
that  we  were  not  prisoners  of  war,  but  harmless,  inoffensive  men,  whose 
weapons  of  warfare  were  not  carnal  but  spiritual. 

We  have  observed,  that  we  felt  under  obligation  to  regulate  ourselves 
by  the  inspired  directions  and  holy  examples  of  the  Bible.  If  we  know 
our  own  hearts,  these,  and  these  alone,  influenced  our  minds,  not  with 
the  delusive  force  of  novelty,  but  with  the  permanence  of  a  conviction 
settled  by  meditation,  and  unaltered  in  the  midst  of  delay  and  trials,  and 
the  darkest  prospects. 

Long  before  we  were  ordained  to  the  gospel  ministry,  it  became  with 
us  a  solemn  inquiry,  in  what  part  of  the  world  it  was  the  will  of  Christ 
we  should  preach  his  gospel.  In  Christian  countries  we  saw  thousands  of 
ministers,  innumerable  Bibles  and  other  religious  books,  to  guide  immor 
tal  souls  to  everlasting  life. 

We  looked  upon  the  heathen,  and  alas!  though  so  many  ages  had 
passed  away,  three  fourths  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  globe  had  not  been 
told,  that  Jesus  had  tasted  death  for  every  man.  We  saw  them  follow 
ing  their  fathers  in  successive  millions  to  eternal  death.  The  view  was 
overwhelming — the  convictions  of  our  own  duty  were  as  clear  as  noon, 
and  our  desire  was  ardent  to  bear  to  the  dying  heathen,  the  glad  tidings 
of  great  joy — to  declare  to  them  Him  who  had  said,  look  unto  me  and  be 
ye  saved,  all  the  ends  of  the  earth;  and  who,  after  he  had  brought  from 
the  grave  the  body  crucified  for  men,  said — Go — teach  all  nations — he 
that  believeth  shall  be  saved,  and  he  that  believeth  not  shall  be  damned. 

Affected  arid  convinced  as  we  were,  though  fastened  to  our  country 
by  the  strongest  ties; — though  we  had  aged  parents  to  comfort,  and  be 
loved  friends  to  enjoy; — though  urged  by  affectionate  congregations  to 
Btay  and  preach  the  gospel  to  them; — we  were  compelled  to  leave  all  and 
come  to  this  land,  with  the  prospect  of  no  temporal  advantage,  but  with 
the  prospect,  the  certainty,  of  much  temporal  loss,  and  even  of  suffering 
too,  should  our  lot  be  cast  under  a  heathen  government,  as  the  experi 
ence  of  all  ages  warned  us  to  expect.  We  were  determined,  as  we 
thought,  to  deliver  our  message  at  the  hazard  of  every  personal  conve 
nience  or  suffering,  trusting  in  God,  who  guides  the  ways  of  all  men,  and 
willing  to  abide  his  allotments. 

Right  Honorable  Sir,  thus  we  were  devoted  to  a  work  of  which  we 
are,  and  ever  shall  be,  infinitely  unworthy; — devoted  for  reasons  which 
can  never  lose  their  force,  but  whose  weight  in  our  own  case  had  been 


1814.  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  103 

increasing  by  all  the  preparations  we  had  made,  and  by  all  the  informa 
tion  we  had  acquired.  Before  we  left  Bombay  we  had  spent  more  than 
a  year  in  different  parts  of  India; — had  conversed  with  many  gentlemen, 
clergy  and  laity,  on  the  subject  of  missions; — had  learnt  much  of  the 
language,  manners  and  customs  of  the  people;  and  had  become  more 
deeply  impressed  with  their  wretchedness,  and  the  duty  of  publishing  to 
them  the  blessings  of  the  gospel.  While  we  enjoyed  these  advantages, 
we  trusted  we  had  acquired  a  valuable  degree  of  preparation  for  a  pru 
dent  and  useful  management  of  a  Christian  mission;  which  made  it  more 
than  ever  our  duty  to  preach  to  the  heathen. 

We  were  standing  on  heathen  ground.  We  were  surrounded  by  im 
mortal  beings,  polluted  by  idolatry,  dead  in  sin,  and  exposed  to  hell. 
There  was  not  one  messenger  to  a  million,  among  all  the  idolaters  of 
India,  to  preach  Jesus  to  them.  There  was  enough  before  our  eyes  to 
convince  us,  that  the  command  of  Christ  to  teach  all  nations  had  not 
been  thoroughly  fulfilled;  and  we  knew  that  it  had  never  been  revoked. 
We  had  for  years  been  preparing;  and  we  had  come  to  this  country  for 
no  other  purpose  than  to  obey  this  command.  But  now  we  were  called 
upon  to  relinquish  the  purpose  which  had  been  so  long  conceived — to 
abandon  the  work  for  which  we  had  been  so  long  preparing — and  to  de 
part,  not  only  from  the  particular  field  which  we  had  entered,  but  from 
the  heathen  altogether.  We  were  commanded  by  a  government  we  rev 
erenced,  a  government  exalted,  as  an  enlightened  and  a  Christian  govern 
ment,  among  the  nations  of  the  earth — a  government,  under  which 
Christian  people  have  been  active  beyond  a  parallel  in  modern  ages,  in 
their  efforts  for  the  universal  diffusion  of  Christian  knowledge;  and,  what 
was  peculiarly  distressing,  your  Excellency  had  considered  it  your  official 
duty  to  execute  upon  us  orders,  which  would  remove  us  from  this  field 
white  already  to  the  harvest, 

Thus  situated,  what  could  we — as  ministers  of  Christ,  what  ought 
we  to  have  done?  The  miseries  of  the  heathen  were  before  us.  The 
command  of  Christ  remained  in  full  force  We  had  hoped,  and  prayed, 
arid  waited — till  almost  the  day  on  which  the  orders  for  our  going  were 
to  be  executed,  our  work  defeated,  and  our  prospect  of  preaching  to  the 
heathen  destroyed.  We  ask  again  what  could  we — We  appeal  to  your 
own  Christian  feelings,  what  ought  we  to  have  done?  That  the  gospel 
should  be  preached  to  these  heathen  we  knew  was  according  to  the  will 
of  Christ.  If  by  any  means  we  could  do  this,  though  we  had  been  for 
bidden,  we  thought,  (we  say  it  with  all  possible  deference,)  that  we  ought 
to  obey  God  rather  than  man. 

There  did  seem  to  be  a  way  authorized  by  the  Holy  Scriptures,  which, 
though  doubtful  in  its  issue,  furnished,  we  thought,  considerable  prospect 
of  success.  It  was  to  escape  and  reach  Ceylon,  where  we  had  been  as 
sured  of  protection  and  encouragement.  Paul  and  Barnabus  escaped 
from  Thessalonica;  and  again  Paul  was  let  down  in  a  basket  by  the  wall 
of  Damascus,  while  he  knew  that  the  highest  civil  authority  of  the  city 
was  waiting  to  apprehend  him. 

We  stand  far  behind  apostles,  those  venerable  messengers  of  the  Lord; 
but,  though  so  far  behind  them,  yet,  as  ministers  of  the  same  Lord,  we 
feel  bound  in  duty  to  plead  their  example,  especially  when  we  consider 
ourselves,  if  prevented  from  doing  our  work  in  one  city,  under  a  command 


104  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  1814. 

of  our  Lord  to  flee  to  another.     This  we  attempted,  but  without  success; 
and  for  this  attempt  we  now  stand  so  highly  impeached. 

Amidst  the  distress  which  unavoidably  results  from  the  imputation  of 
guilt,  it  affords  us  consolation  to  reflect,  that  until  we  left  Bombay,  our 
character,  by  a  fair  testimony,  both  here  and  at  Calcutta,  stood  unim- 
peached. 

If  this  single  act  does  really  bring  guilt  upon  our  souls;  if  it  does 
justly  destroy  the  confidence  previously  reposed  in  our  characters;  how 
can  we  justify  apostles  and  others,  of  whom  the  world  was  not  worthy, 
who  in  like  manner  fled  from  city  to  city  rather  than  abandon  their  work? 

Such,  Right  Honorable  Sir,  is  the  statement  which  we  have  thought  it 
our  duty  to  submit  to  your  serious  consideration.  We  should  be  happy 
indeed,  should  it  remove  from  our  characters  the  imputation  of  guilt. 
Confident  as  we  are  of  none  other  than  the  best  intentions,  we  most 
earnestly  hope,  and  anxiously  desire,  it  may,  and  pray  that  the  time  may 
not  be  distant,  when  we  shall  be  freed  from  the  painful  duty  of  vindicat 
ing  ourselves,  and  when  we  shall  enter  with  joy  and  thanksgiving  upon 
that  work,  for  which  we  are  literally  strangers  and  pilgrims,  and  have  no 
certain  dwelling  place.  But  the  matter  rests  with  God.  On  Him  we  will 
endeavor  quietly  and  patiently  to  wait;  to  Him  we  will  look  to  bear  us 
through  our  present  trials — to  publish  his  own  gospel  to  the  dying  heathen, 
and  to  honor  his  dishonored  Son  among  all  nations. 

We  have  the  honor  to  be,  Right  Honorable  Sir,  with  the  highest 
respect,  your  Excellency's  most  obedient  and  most  humble  servants, 

GORDON  HALL, 
SAMUEL  NOTT. 


[Letters  from  the  Rev.  Thomas  Thomason  of  Calcutta,  addressed  to  one  of  the  missionaries 
at  Bombay,  the  last  of  which  was  received  December  10,  1813.] 

Oct.  8,  1813. 

MY  DEAR  SIR,  I  have  been  favored  by  your  two  letters,  and  to  save 
the  post  of  this  evening,  write  in  haste  to  say,  that  Mr.  Udny  seems  to 
think  that  some  attempt  may  be  made  with  Earl  Moira  to  interest  him  in 
your  favor;  but  how,  or  of  what  nature,  he  has  not  intimated.  I  am  now 
going  to  wait  upon  him.  No  time  will  be  lost  in  doing  what  can  be  done; 
nor,  if  any  thing  is  to  be  done  effectually,  ought  a  moment  to  be  thrown 
away.  You  shall  hear  as  soon  as  any  thing  may  be  concluded. 

We  are  deeply  concerned  in  all  your  motions,  and  shall  feel  most  happy 
and  thankful  to  God,  if  any  thing  should  arise  favorable  to  all  our  desires. 
It  will  be  from  Him.  Vain  is  the  help  of  man. 

Yours  affectionately,  THOMAS  THOMASON. 

Oct.  13,  1813. 

MY  DEAR  SIR,  It  has  been  no  easy  matter  to  know  how  to  proceed  in 
your  business.  At  first  we  determined  on  an  address  to  Lord  Moira,  to 
be  signed  by  Mr.  Udny,  Dr.  Carey,  and  myself.  After  preparing  the 
letter  we  demurred  about  the  expediency  of  addressing  Lord  Moira,  on 
so  delicate  a  business,  so  soon  after  his  entering  on  the  government, 
especially  as  we  had  to  plead,  not  for  missionaries  merely,  but  for  Ameri 
can  missionaries;  and  moreover  to  urge  a  revocation  of  a  government 


1814.  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  105 

order,  even  while  Lord  Minto,  the  Ex-Governor  General,   was  upon  the 
spot. 

On  the  whole,  we  thought  it  best  to  apply  first  to  Lord  Minto;  and  this 
morning  I  have  had  a  long  interview  with  him.  I  showed  him  a  copy  of 
your  last  letter,  and  also  of  the  letter  of  the  Board  of  Commissioners  for 
Foreign  Missions,  appointing  us  to  act  in  India.  This  I  did  in  order  to 
explain  why  we  interested  ourselves  individually  in  this  matter. 

His  Lordship  was  very  gracious — professed  the  highest  opinion  of  your 
intentions — but  could-  not  give  a  decided  answer  without  consulting  with 
his  late  colleagues  in  council.  For  his  own  part,  however,  he  seemed  to 
think  that  Sir  Evan  Nepean  could  judge  as  well  as  they  could;  and  that 
the  business  might  be  left  to  him  to  act  as  he  thought  proper. 

I  told  him,  that  we  petitioned  only  for  a  relaxation  of  the  order,  which 
bound  Sir  Evan  Nepean  to  send  you  away.  He  said  he  would  inform 
me,  as  soon  as  he  had  had  an  opportunity  of  conversing  with  the  council. 
If  they  can  be  persuaded  to  relax  in  their  views  of  the  subject,  the  way 
will  be  cleared  for  Lord  Moira  to  act  without  any  indelicacy  to  his  pre 
decessor. 

Thus  the  matter  rests.  It  may  be  several  days  before  you  hear  the 
result.  But  as  there  is  a  hope  that  it  may  be  favorable,  I  hope  you  may 
obtain  permission  to  stay  until  you  hear  again. 

But  we  look  above  councils  and  governors  in  this  matter.  We  have  a 
gracious  Head,  who  is  not  unmindful  of  his  Church.  To  Him  let  us 
commit  the  matter  in  faith  and  prayer. 

Yours  affectionately,  THOMAS  THOMASON. 

Nov.  19,  1813. 

MY  DEAR  SIR,  After  much  delay  I  have  at  length  received  a  favora 
ble  intimation  from  government,  which  grants  all  that  you  requested. 
Lord  Minto  was  long  in  giving  me  his  judgment  of  the  case.  So  I  wrote 
again,  enclosing  in  my  letter  a  copy  of  a  letter  from  a  Mr.  Erskine,  of 
Bombay ,  to  his  friend  Dr.  Hare.  A  copy  was  at  the  same  time  sent  to 
Lord  Moira  by  Dr.  Hare.  In  that  letter  Mr.  Erskine  spoke  very  can 
didly  and  kindly  of  you  both.  No  answer,  however,  was  sent  by  Lord 
Minto  to  this  second  communication;  but  he  called  upon  me,  and  said, 
that  he  thought  I  should  find  no  difficulty  in  obtaining  the  permission  of 
this  government.  Our  address  to  Lord  Moira,  signed  by  Mr.  Udny,  Dr. 
Carey,  and  myself,  was  accordingly  sent  in  without  delay. 

Yesterday  I  had  an  audience  of  Lord  Moira.  He  spoke  very  decidedly 
about  your  being  allowed  to  stay;  and  expressed  his  conviction  that  you 
meant  to  do  good,  and  that  no  conceivable  public  injury  could  arise  from 
your  staying.  But,  he  added,  your  letter  will  come  before  Council  in  a 
day  or  two,  and  will  be  publicly  answered. 

Thus  the  matter  stands.  In  a  short  time  I  hope  to  write  again. 
Meanwhile,  Sir  Evan  Nepean  may  be  assured,  that  the  government  here 
has  a  friendly  disposition  towards  you.  May  this  arrive  in  time  to  pre 
vent  any  decisive  steps  for  your  leaving  India:  and  may  you  be  abun 
dantly  blessed  in  all  your  plans  and  labors. 

I  have  the  inexpressible  satisfaction  to  observe,  that  Lord  Moira  has 
come  out  with  every  laudable  desire  to  do  all  the  good  he  can,  and  with 
the  determination  to  extend  the  efficient  aid  of  government  in  forwarding 
14 


106  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  1814. 

plans  of  general  instruction  and  improvement.  I  am  now  preparing  the 
materials  of  a  very  extended  plan  of  operation,  which,  in  the  course  of  a 
month,  I  hope  to  submit  to  him.  You  shall  hear  from  me  on  the  subject 
more  at  large,  if  nothing  unforeseen  prevent  me  from  writing. 

My  kindest  regards  to  your  colleague,  and  to  Dr.  Taylor,  to  whom  I 
am  in  arrears,  and  hope  to  write  shortly. 

Yours  affectionately,  THOMAS  THOMASON. 


To  the  Right  Honorable  Sir  Evan  Nepean,  Governor,  fyc.  fyc. 

RIGHT  HONORABLE  SIR, — We  understand  that  the  final  arrangements 
for  our  being  transported  to  England  are  now  made.  At  this  decisive 
moment,  we  beg  to  submit  to  your  Excellency  the  following  considera 
tions. 

That  exercise  of  civil  authority,  which,  in  a  manner  so  conspicuous 
and  determined,  is  about  to  prohibit  two  ministers  of  Christ  from  preach 
ing  his  Gospel  in  India,  can  be  of  no  ordinary  consequence;  especially 
at  the  present  moment,  when  the  Christian  public  in  England  and 
America,  are  waiting  with  pious  solicitude  to  hear  how  the  religion  of  the 
Bible  is  welcomed  and  encouraged  among  the  Pagans  of  this  country. 
Our  case  has  had  so  full  and  conspicuous  a  trial,  that  its  final  decision 
may  serve  as  a  specimen,  by  which  the  friends  of  religion  may  learn 
what  is  likely  to  befall,  in  India,  those  evangelical  missions,  which  they 
are  laboring  to  support  by  their  prayers,  and  by  their  substance. 

Had  the  decision  been  favorable  to  missions,  it  would  have  encour 
aged  the  hearts  of  thousands  to  increase  their  exertions  for  the  enlarge 
ment  of  the  Redeemer's  kingdom;  it  would  have  brought  thanksgivings 
to  God  and  blessings  to  the  heathen.  But  if  the  decision  must  be  un 
favorable,  it  will  tend  to  deject  the  hearts  of  Christians;  it  will  cast  a 
new  cloud  of  darkness  over  this  heathen  land,  and  discourage  many  from 
attempting  to  rescue  the  poor  Pagans  from  the  doom  which  awaits  idol 
aters.  This  momentous  decision,  Right  Honorable  Sir,  rests  with  you. 

Now  we  would  solemnly  appeal  to  your  Excellency's  conscience  and 
ask:  Does  not  your  Excellency  believe,  that  it  is  the  will  of  Christ  that 
his  Gospel  should  be  preached  to  these  Heathens?  Do  you  not  believe, 
that  we  have  given  a  creditable  testimony  that  we  are  ministers  of  Christ, 
and  have  come  to  this  country  to  preach  his  Gospel?  and  would  not  pro 
hibiting  us  from  preaching  to  the  Heathen  here  be  a  known  resistance 
to  his  will?  If  your  Excellency  finally  exerts  civil  authority  to  compel 
us  from  this  heathen  land,  what  can  it  be  but  a  decided  opposition  to 
the  spread  of  the  Gospel  among  those  immortal  beings,  whom  God  has 
placed  under  your  Excellency's  government?*  What  can  it  be  but 
a  fresh  instance  of  that  persecution  against  the  Church  of  Christ,  and 
that  opposition  to  the  prevalence  of  true  religion,  which  have  so  often 
provoked  the  indignation ''of  God,  and  stamped  with  sin  and  guilt  the 

*  It  is  manifest,  from  the  whole  history  of  this  business,  that  this  question,  and  the  succeed 
ing  one,  were  meant  to  apply  to  the  system  of  measures  adopted  by  the  East  India  Company 
and  the  Bengal  government,  and  not  to  Sir  Evan  Nepean  in  his  individual  capacity}  for  he 
appears  to  have  been  favorably  disposed  toward  the  missionaries. 


1814.  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  107 

history  of  every  age?  Can  you,  Right  Honorable  Sir,  make  it  appear  to 
be  otherwise  to  your  own  conscience — to  that  Christian  public  who  must 
be  judges  in  this  case — but  especially  can  you  justify  such  an  exercise  of 
power  to  your  God  and  final  Judge? 

Your  Excellency  has  been  pleased  to  say,  that  it  is  your  duty  to  send 
us  to  England,  because  you  have  received  positive  orders  from  the  Su 
preme  Government  to  do  so.     But,  Right  Honorable  Sir,  * 
***** 

***** 
were  it  even  admitted,  that  whatever  is  ordered  by  a  superior  author 
ity  is  right  to  be  done,  would  not  our  case  stand  thus:  Several  months 
ago,  your  Excellency  received  from  the  Supreme  Government  positive 
orders  to  send  us  to  England;  but  repeatedly  expressed  a  deep  regret 
that  you  were  obliged  to  execute  such  orders  upon  us.  But  a  few  days 
since  we  had  the  happiness  to  present  to  your  Excellency  such  commu 
nications  from  Bengal,  as  were  acknowledged  to  evince  such  a  change  in 
the  mind  of  Lord  Minto,  as  that  he  was  willing  we  should  remain  in  the 
country,  and  that  Lord  Moira  was  also  favorable  to  our  staying.  May 
not  your  Excellency  therefore  presume,  that  notwithstanding  the  pre 
vious  orders  of  the  Supreme  Government,  it  has  since  become  their  pleas 
ure  that  we  should  remain  in  the  country? 

Besides,  those  communications  further  state,  that  the  subject  was  soon 
to  come  before  the  Council  for  a  formal  decision.  But  delays  are  so  lia 
ble  to  occur  in  such  cases,  that  at  this  moment  a  reasonable  time  has 
hardly  elapsed  for  the  arrival  of  an  official  decision,  though  we  have 
reason  to  expect  it  daily. 

Under  such  circumstances,  could  your  Excellency  be  judged  unfaith 
ful  to  your  trust,  should  you  at  least  suspend  our  departure  until  a 
further  time  were  allowed  for  official  communications  to  be  received  from 
Bengal?  By  so  doing  could  you  be  thought  to  take  upon  yourself  an  un 
justifiable  responsibility;  especially  when  it  is  considered  what  a  discus 
sion  the  spreading  of  the  Gospel  in  India  has  undergone  in  England, 
and  how  great  is  the  probability,  that  something  decidedly  in  its  favor 
will  soon  be  announced  in  this  country?  * 

It  is  our  ardent  wish,  that  your  Excellency  would  compare,  most  seri 
ously,  such  an  exercise  of  civil  authority  upon  us  with  the  general 
spirit  and  tenor  of  our  Savior's  commands.  We  most  earnestly  intreat 
you  not  to  send  us  away  from  these  Heathens.  We  intreat  you  by  the 
high  probability,  that  an  official  permission  from  the  Supreme  Govern 
ment  for  us  to  remain  here  will  shortly  be  received;  and  that  something 
more  general,  and  to  the  same  effect,  will  soon  arrive  from  England. 
We  intreat  you  by  the  time  and  money  already  expended  on  our  Mission, 
and  by  the  Christian  hopes  and  prayers  attending  it,  not  utterly  to  de 
feat  its  pious  object  by  sending  us  from  the  country.  We  intreat  you  by 
the  spiritual  miseries  of  the  Heathen,  who  are  daily  perishing  before 
your  eyes,  and  under  your  Excellency's  government,  not  to  prevent  us 
from  preaching  Christ  to  them.  We  intreat  you  by  the  blood  of  Jesus, 
which  he  shed  to  redeem  them: — As  Ministers  of  HIM,  who  has  all 
power  in  Heaven  and  on  earth,  and  who  with  his  farewell  and  ascend 
ing  voice  commanded  his  Ministers  to  go  and  teach  all  nations,  we  in 
treat  you  not  to  prohibit  us  from  teaching  these  Heathens.  By  all  the 


108  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  1814. 

principles  of  our  holy  religion,  by  which  you  hope  to  be  saved,  we  in- 
treat  you  not  to  hinder  us  from  preaching  the  same  religion  to  these 
perishing  idolaters.  By  all  the  solemnities  of  the  judgment-day,  when 
your  Excellency  must  meet  your  Heathen  subjects  before  God's  tribunal, 
we  intreat  you  not  to  hinder  us  from  preaching  to  them  that  Gospel, 

which  is  able  to  prepare  them  as  well*  as  you  for  that  awful  day. 

#  #  #  #  * 

We  intreat  your  Excellency  not  to  oppose  the  prayers  and  efforts  of  the 
Church,  by  sending  back  those  whom  the  Church  has  sent  forth  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord,  to  preach  his  Gospel  among  the  Heathen;  and  we 
earnestly  beseech  Almighty  God  to  prevent  such  an  act,  and  now  and 
ever  to  guide  your  Excellency  in  that  way,  which  shall  be  most  pleasing 

in  his  sight. 

***** 

We  have  the  honor   to  be,  Right  Honorable   Sir,  Your  Excellency's 
most  obedient  and  most  humble  servants,  GORDON  HALL, 

Bombay,  Dec.  20,  1813. .  SAMUEL  NOTT. 


[Extracts  of  a  letter  from  Mr.  Newell  to  the  Corresponding  Secretary,  dated  Colombo,  Cey 
lon,  Dec.  20,  1813.  This  letter  is  very  copious,  and,  lest  preceding  letters  should  have  mis 
carried,  contains  many  facts  which  had  before  been  communicated.  The  introduction  of  the 
letter,  and  the  comparison  of  Jaffna  and  Bussora,  as  missionary  stations,  are  selected  to  ac 
company  the  Report  of  the  Prudential  Committee.] 

REVEREND  AND  DEAR  SIR, — Nearly  two  years  have  elapsed,  since 
you  sent  us  forth  to  carry  the  glad  tidings  of  salvation  to  the  perishing 
heathens  in  the  East.  Our  Christian  friends  in  America  will  perhaps 
expect,  that  before  this  time  we  have  chosen  our  station,  arrived  at  the 
field  of  our  labors,  commenced  the  study  of  the  language  or  languages  of 
the  place,  and  made  considerable  progress  in  our  work.  It  would  be 
no  less  pleasing  to  me,  than  to  you  or  them,  to  be  able  to  communicate 
such  intelligence.  But  I  rejoice,  dear  sir,  to  see,  by  your  report  for  the 
last  year,  that  you  are  prepared,  and  that  you  have  endeavored  to  pre- 

fare  the  minds  of  the  Christian  public,  to  hear  of  our  disappointments, 
t  has  pleased  God,  in  his  inscrutable  wisdom,  to  call  us,  in  the  very 
outset,  to  pass  through  the  depths  of  affliction,  and  to  experience  the 
disappointment  of  our  dearest  hopes.  Perhaps  God  intends  by  these 
trials  to  humble  us;  to  purify  our  hearts  from  pride  and  ambition;  to 
crucify  us  to  the  world,  and  make  us  more  sensible  of  our  dependence 
on  his  grace,  that  we  may  be  better  prepared  to  serve  him,  in  the 
kingdom  of  his  Son,  among  the  heathen.  If  tribulation  work  in  us 
patience,  and  patience  experience,  and  experience  hope,  we  shall  have 
reason  to  bless  God  that  we  have  been  so  early  and  so  deeply  afflicted. 
Pray  for  us,  fathers  and  brethren,  that  the  things  which  have  befallen  us 
in  Asia  may  turn  out /or  the  furtherance  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ;  that  as 
the  sufferings  of  Christ  abound  in  us,  so  our  consolation  may  abound  by 
Christ,  that  we  may  be  able  to  comfort  them,  who  are  in  any  trouble, 
by  the  comfort  wherewith  we  ourselves  arc  comforted  of  God. 

#      •  *  #  *  * 


1814.  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  109 

[At  the  time  of  Mr.  Newell's  writing  this  letter,  he  took  it  to  be  certain,  beyond  a  doubt,  that 
Messrs.  Hall  and  Nott  had  been  sent  Irom  Bombay  to  England,  and  that  the  British  government 
over  the  dominions  of  the  East  India  Company  was  inexorably  opposed  to  missions.  He  does 
not  appear  to  have  been  informed  of  the  great  exertions,  which  had  been  made  in  England,  to 
open  India  to  the  preachers  of  the  Gospel.  He  considered  himself  as  obliged  to  act  alone,  at 
least  till  he  could  be  joined  by  fellow-laborers  from  this  country.  In  this  state  of  things,  he 
looked  around  for  the  best  place  to  establish  an  infant  mission.  His  views  on  that  subject 
are  as  follows:] 

I  have  also  written  to  our  Committee  at  Calcutta  for  advice.  I  am 
wavering  between  two  places,  Ceylon,  and  Bussora  at  the  head  of  the 
Persian  gulf.  They  both  have  their  advantages  and  disadvantages.  I 
will  give  you  a  summary  of  my  reasoning  with  respect  to  each. 

The  reasons  for  establishing  our  mission  at  Ceylon  are  these: 

1.  The  country  is  the  king's,  and  his  majesty's  government  is  friend 
ly  to  missions.     His  Excellency,  General  Brownrigg,  the  present  Gover 
nor  of  Ceylon,  has  been  pleased  lately  to  say,  that  he  is  authorised   by 
the  Secretary  of  State,  (Eng.)  to  encourage  the  efforts  of  all  respectable 
ministers.*     Sir  Alexander  Johnstone,  the  chaplains,  the  Hon.  and  Rev. 
Mr.  Twistleton  and  the  Rev.   Mr.  Bisset,    and  indeed  every  influential 
character  in  the  place,  is  favorably  disposed. 

2.  There  is  here  a  very  considerable  scope   for  missionary  exertions. 
The  population  of  the  island  is  variously  estimated,  from  a  million  and 
a  half  to  three  millions.     It  is  probably  somewhere  between  these  limits. 

3.  There  are  very  great  facilities  for  evangelizing  this  people.    There 
are  but  two  languages  spoken  in  the  island,  so  that  when   a  missionary 
has  acquired  these,  he  may  preach  to  several  millions  of  people.     The 
natives  can  read  and  write.     The  whole  of  the  Bible  has  been  translated 
into  the  Tamul,  the  language  spoken- in  the  north  of  the  island,  and  the 
New  Testament  into  the  Cingalese,!  which  is  spoken  in  the  south  and 
the   interior.     There    are,  at   the   lowest  computation,   200,000  native 
Christians,  as  they  are  called,  but  who  are  totally  ignorant  of  Christianity. 
"They  have  no  objection  to  the  Christian  religion,"  says  Mr.  Twistleton, 
"but  for  their  amusement  are  apt  to  attend  the  Budhist  festivals."     Under 
the  head  of  facilities  may  be  reckoned  the  schools.     There  are  about  100 
already  in  operation,  and  the  government  is  establishing  others  in  every 
part  of  the  island.     Here  we  should  be  perfectly  secure,  under  the  pro 
tection  of  the  British  government,  from  all  those  dangers  to  which  we 
should  be  exposed  in  the  Burman  country. 

4.  There  are  but  two  missionaries  in  the  whole  island,  Mr.  Errhardt, 
a  German,  from  the  London  Society,  and   Mr.  Chater,  from  the  Baptist 
Society,  the  same  that  was  four  years  in  the  Burman  country.     Mr.  Vos, 

*  This  is  an  exceedingly  important  fact.     Mr.  N.   also  states,  in  another  part  of  his  letter, 
that  Gov.  Brownrigg  had  interceded  with  Sir  Evan  Nepean  in  behalf  of  our  missionaries,  and 
that  Sir  Alexander  Johnstone,  Chief  Justice,  had  also  written  to  Bombay  in  their  favor.     These 
kind  applications  either  had  not  reached  the  Bombay  government)  at  the  date  of  our  last  let 
ters  from  that  place,  or  the  applications,  if  received,  had  not  been  made  known   to  our  mis 
sionaries.    The  Christian  public  in  this   country  may  draw  a  favorable  conclusion,  as  to  the 
importance  of  this  mission,  when  they  consider,  that  the  Governor  of  Bombay,  the  Governor 
and  Chief  Justice  of  Ceylon,  and  a  member  of  the  Supreme  Council  of  Bengal,  together  with 
a  considerable   number   of  very  respectable   gentlemen,  chaplains,  missionaries,  physicians, 
and  others,  of  different  religious  denominations,  at  Calcutta,  Madras,  Colombo,  and  Bombay, 
places  many  hundred  miles  from  each  other,  not  only  desired  that  our  missionaries  might  fix 
themselves  within  the  British  dominions  in  Asia,  but  exerted  a  gratuitous  and  active  influence. 
to  promote  such  an  event. 

*  This  translation  is  thought  to  be  so  imperfect,  as  that  a  new  version  is  necessary.     This 
appears  by  the  fifth  topic  of  this  discussion. 


110  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  1814. 

who  was  sent  hither  by  the  London  Society,  has  left  the  place,  and  gone 
to  the  Cape,  where  he  is  settled  in  a  Dutch  church.  Mr.  Palm,  another 
of  the  missionaries  from  the  London  Society,  has  left  Jaffna,  where  he 
resided  eight  years,  and  has  been  appointed  by  government  to  the  Dutch 
church  here  in  Colombo,  so  that  he  ceases  to  act  as  a  missionary.  Mr. 
E.  has  not  yet  acquired  the  Cingalese  language;  nor  has  Mr.  C.  yet  had 
time  to  acquire  it,  so  that  there  is  not  at  this  time  one  missionary  on  the 
island,  who  can  speak  to  the  people  in  their  own  tongue. 

5.  Mr.  Chater  has  told  me,  that  Mr.  Talfrey,  (who  has  been  engaged 
in  translating  the  New  Testament  into  Cingalese,)  has  repeatedly  ex 
pressed  a  desire,  that  I  would  apply   myself  to   the  study  of  Cingalese, 
and  qualify  myself  to  carry  on  the  translation.     Mr.  C.  has  also  expressed 
the  same  wish.     There  seems  to  be  no  jealousy  on  this  point.     Mr.  C. 
himself  wishes  me  to  stay  here.     He  is  somewhat  advanced  in  the  ac 
quisition  of  the  Cingalese,  having  been  here  a  year  and  a  half,  and  it 
is  his  intention  to  engage  in  the  business  of  translation;  but  he  wishes 
that  more  than  one  may  be  engaged  in  the  work. 

6.  If  we  take  our  station  at  Jaffna,  where  the  Tamul  language  is 
spoken,  we  have  an  immense  field  before  us;  for  the  same  language  is 
spoken  just  across  the  channel,  on  the   neighboring  continent,  by  seven 
or  eight  millions  of  people.     The  intercourse   between  the  island  and 
continent  is  nearly  as  easy  and   frequent,  as  if  they  were   contiguous. 
Besides,  on  the  little  island  of  Ramisseram,  between   Ceylon  and  the 
continent,  is  one  of  the  most  famous   Hindoo  temples,  that  is   to  be 
found  in  all  India.     Sir  Alexander  Johnstone  recommended  this  place 
to  me,  as  a  missionary  station,  on  account  of  the  crowds  of  pilgrims, 
who  resort  to  this  temple  from  all  parts  of  the  continent.     The  Brahmins 
here  are  said  to  have  the  power  of  restoring  cast,  when  it   is   lost,  a 
prerogative  which  is  not  claimed  by  the  priests   of  any  other  temple  in 
India.     I  visited  this  place  in  September,  on  my  way  to  Jaffna,  upon 
the  recommendation  of  Sir  Alexander.     The  result  of  my  inquiries  was  a 
conviction  that  much  good  might  be  done  here  by  distributing  tracts  and 
portions  of  the  Scriptures,  among  the  pilgrims  who  would  carry  them  to 
the  various  parts  of  the  continent  from  which  they  came,  and  thus  divine 
instruction  would  be  conveyed  to  many  places,  where  no  European  mis 
sionary  might  go  for  a  hundred  years  to  come.     We  cannot  be  allowed 
to  settle  on  the  continent  at  present,  perhaps   never.     But  a  station   at 
Jaffna  is  in  fact  the  same  thing,  as  one  any  where  in  the  south  of  India. 
Our  personal  labors  can  extend  but  a  little  way  around   us,  wherever 
we  fix  our  station.     There  are   a  hundred  and  twenty  thousand   natives 
in  Jaffna,  and  this  is  more  than  we   can   instruct   ourselves.     We  might 
•establish  an  institution  for  the  religious  education  of  youth,  to  raise  up 
and  qualify   the   natives   themselves  for  schoolmasters,  catechists,  and 
itinerating  missionaries;  and  if  Christianity  be  once  firmly  established  in 
Jaffna,  it   must   from  its  nature   spread  into   the    adjoining   continent. 
Then,  if  some  of  us  learn  the  Cingalese  language  too,  we  may  prepare 
and  send  forth  missionaries  in  that  language  also,  to  carry  the  Gospel  up 
into  the  Candian  country  in  the  interior  of  the  island.     These   are  the 
principal  arguments  for  establishing  our  mission  here. 

[Mr.  Newell  briefly  enumerates  his  objections  to  a  mission  any  where  in  the  British  domin 
ions;  which  objections  we  hope  are  now  obviated  by  the  favorable  issue  of  the  decision  of  the 
British  Parliament  on  the  subject.] 


1814.  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  Ill 

I  will  enumerate  particularly  my  reasons  for  a  mission  to  Bussora,  on 
the  Euphrates,  near  the  Persian  gulf. 

1.  Bussora  is  a  commercial  town,  the  great  emporium  of  western  Asia, 
through  which  the  merchandise  of  the  east  is  distributed  to  Persia,  Ara 
bia,  and  Turkey.     It  is  situated  on  the  confines  of  these  three  extensive 
countries,  and  the  Persian,  Arabic,  and  Turkish  languages  are,  I  be 
lieve,  all  spoken  there. 

2.  In  the  whole  of  western  Asia,  containing  a  population  of  forty  or 
fifty  millions,  there  is  not  one  protestant  missionary.     The  Karass  mis 
sion,  (which  is  certainly  a  most  important  one,)  is,  I  believe,  within  the 
limits  of  Europe.*     The  Turkish  and  Tartar  languages  are  the  proper 
sphere  of  this  mission;  the  Arabic  and  Persian,  that  of  a   mission  to 
Bussora. 

3.  It  is  an  object  of  primary  importance  to  procure  correct  translations 
of  the  whole  Bible  into  Persian  and  Arabic.     The  Arabic  alone  was  said 
by  the  late  Rev.  Mr.  Martyn  to  be  of  more  importance  than  three  fourths 
of  all  the  translations  now  in  hand.     This  gentleman  had  undertaken  to 
superintend  the  translation  of  the  Scriptures  into  these  two  languages, 
with  the  assistance  of  N.  Sabat,  the  converted  Arabian,  and  Mirza  Fi- 
trut,  a  learned   Persian.     Mr.   M.    died  in   December  last,  on   a  tour 
through  Persia  and  Arabia,  having  only  completed  the  New  Testament 
in  both  languages.     Whether  any  other  person  in  Bengal  will  take  up 
the  work,  and  finish  it,  I  do  not  know.     I  have  written  to  ascertain. 
But  even  if  the  Bible  were  completed  in  both  languages,  it  would  be  of 
little  use,  until  some  person  would  go  and  carry  it  to  them,  and  say  to 
the  people,  Hear  the  word  of  the  Lord. 

4.  There  are  numerous  bodies  of  Christians,  of  different  sects,  scat 
tered  through  these  countries,  who  have  sunk  into  the  grossest  darkness 
for  want  of  instruction,  but  who  would  gladly  receive  the  Bible.     These 
Christians   might  be  made    instrumental  in   diffusing  the   light  around 
them,  but  would  never  take  the  lead  in  such  a  work.     How  many  ages 
did  the  Syrian  churches  in  Travancore  live  in  the  midst  of  an  idolatrous 
people  without  ever  thinking  of  giving  them  the  Bible,  or  even  of  trans 
lating  it  into  the  vulgar  tongue  for  their  own  use.     But  no  sooner  was 
the  thing  proposed  by  Dr.  Buchanan,  than  the  Syrian  bishop  himself  sat 
down  to  the  work,  and  the  Malayalim  Gospels  have  already  been  pub 
lished.     It  is  highly  probable  that  in  the  Syrian  and  Armenian  churches 
in  those  western  regions,  men  may  be  found  qualified  and  disposed  to 
assist  in  spreading  the  light  around  them. 

5.  The  Persians  and  Arabians  rank  as  high  in  the  scale  of  intellect, 
as  any  people  in  the  world;  and,  if  truly  converted,  would  become  very 
useful  to  the  cause  of  Christianity. 

6.  There  are  several  considerations,  which,  at  the  present  time,  seem 
to  furnish  a  high  degree  of  probability,   that  the  gospel  may  be  spread 
through  these  hitherto  benighted  regions.     In  the  first  place  the  Mussul 
mans  are  a  kind  of  heretical  Christians.     They  profess  to  believe  in  one 
God;  in  Moses  and  his  law,  David  and  his  Psalms,  Jesus  and  his  Gospel; 
though  they  say  these  books  have  been  corrupted  by  the  Christians.  And 
besides,  the  Persians  profess  so  lax  a  system  of  Mahometanism,  that 

*  Karass  is  in  Russian  Asia. — ED. 


112  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  1814. 

they  are  considered  by  some  other  Mussulmans  as  a  kind  of  heretics. 
It  is  certain  that  Christians  are,  and  ever  have  been,  tolerated  in  Persia. 
When  I  was  in  Bengal,  Mr.  Sabastiana,  a  Catholic  missionary,  arrived 
there,  who  had  been  ten  or  twenty  years  in  Persia,  and  reported  that  the 
Christians  in  that  country  were  numerous.  The  story,  which  Dr.  Bu 
chanan  has  related,  of  Nadir  Shah's  attempt  to  get  the  Gospels  translated 
into  Persian,  is  a  proof  that  they  are  not  very  scrupulous  about  admitting 
new  religions  into  the  country.  When  the  late  Mr.  Martyn  was  last  year 
at  Shiraz,  the  seat  of  the  Persian  court,  he  wrote,  that  "the  men  of 
Shiraz  had  offered  to  assist  him  in  translating  the  Bible  into  Persian." 

All  these  circumstances  seem  to  indicate  the  dawn  of  gospel  day  on 
those  regions  where  the  star,  which  led  to  Bethlehem,  first  appeared. 
Especially  the  progress  of  Wahhahbe,  the  Arabian  conqueror,  seems  to 
portend  the  speedy  downfal  of  the  Mahometan  power.  The  creed  of  this 
adventurer  is  simply  this.  There  is  no  other  God  but  God.  He  denies 
the  divine  mission  of  Mahomet,  and  the  authority  of  the  Koran,  and 
destroys  all  the  monuments  of  Mahometan  superstition,  which  fall  into 
his  hands.  He  is  said  to  show  more  favor  to  Christians  than  to  Mussul 
mans;  but  he  sets  himself  up  as  a  prophet,  or  rather  pretends  to  a  divine 
commission. 

But  after  all  it  must  be  confessed,  a  mission  to  these  parts  would  be 
attended  with  considerable  hazard.  If  the  gospel  should  spread,  and  be 
embraced  by  persons  of  consequence,  persecution  would  most  probably 
follow.  Already  the  streets  of  Bucharia  have  been  stained  with  the  blood 
of  a  martyred  Christian.  In  that  bigoted  city,  Abdallah.  the  noble  Ara 
bian  convert,  witnessed  a  good  confession,  and,  in  the  presence  of  a  won 
dering  crowd,  laid  down  his  life  for  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus.  But 
Abdallah  was  a  nobleman,  and  filled  an  office  of  the  highest  dignity  in 
the  Persian  court.  The  common  people,  I  believe,  are  not  persecuted 
for  changing  their  religion.  But  shall  we  wait  till  Persia  and  Arabia  are 
willing  to  change  their  religion  before  we  offer  them  the  gospel.  Great 
and  discouraging  difficulties  lie  in  our  way,  wherever  we  would  attempt 
to  propagate  the  Christian  religion.  In  China  Mr.  Morrison  is  translat 
ing  and  publishing  the  Scriptures,  in  opposition  to  an  imperial  edict, 
which  renders  him  every  moment  liable  to  be  seized  and  put  to  death. 

Finally,  a  mission  to  western  Asia  would  be  all  our  own;  and  it  would 
be  free  from  the  objections  which  I  stated  to  establishing  our  mission  in 
British  India.  We  should  be  in  the  neighborhood  of  Mesopotamia, 
Syria,  Palestine,  and  Egypt,  those  interesting  theatres,  on  which  the  most 
wonderful  and  important  events,  recorded  in  sacred  history,  took  place. 
There  are  Christian  churches  in  all  these  countries.  Might  we  not,  by 
giving  them  the  Bible,  of  which  they  have  long  been  destitute,  rekindle 
their  zeal,  and  lift  up  in  the  midst  of  them  a  great  light,  that  will  dart 
its  cheering  beams  far  into  the  regions  of  thick  darkness,  by  which  they 
are  surrounded.  When  I  think  of  these  things,  I  long  to  be  on  my  way 
towards  Jerusalem.  But,  dear  Sir,  I  stand  alone;  I  have  no  missionary 
associate  to  advise  with,  and  I  am  afraid  to  rely  on  my  own  judgment. 
What  would  I  not  give  to  be  one  half  hour  with  you.  We  could  settle 
the  business  at  once.  Could  I  know  that  it  would  meet  the  approbation 
of  the  Society  at  home,  I  think  I  should  be  decided. 


1814.  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  113 

A  consideration  of  minor  importance,  which  makes  me  desirous  of  en 
gaging  in  the  mission  is,  I  have  been  at  very  considerable  expense  in  pro 
curing  Persian  and  Arabic  books,  and  have  devoted  several  months  to  the 
study  of  the  Persian  language.  This  I  did  with  a  view  to  Bombay, 
which  I  must  now  give  up. 

I  am  sorry  that  I  cannot  say  to  you  in  this  letter  precisely  what  I  in 
tend  to  do.  I  fear  our  disappointments  and  delays  will  prove  a  severe 
trial  to  the  faith  and  patience  of  our  Christian  friends.  But  you  will  be 
able  to  inform  them  that  nothing  has  befallen  us  but  what  is  common  to 
similar  attempts  in  the  first  outset.  The  Baptist  mission,  which  is  now 
so  flourishing,  was  severely  tried  for  a  time.  They  got  no  permanent 
establishment  for  six  or  seven  years  after  the  first  missionaries  came  out. 
In  two  instances,  where  they  have  attempted  to  plant  new  missions,  their 
missionaries  have  spent  four  or  fiVe  years,  and  many  thousands  of  rupees, 
and  after  all  have  abandoned  the  attempt  and  gone  to  other  places.  The 
same  discouragements  have  been  experienced  by  some  of  the  missiona 
ries  of  the  London  Society. 

In  the  mean  time,  I  hope  I  am  not  altogether  useless.  I  have  preached 
in  English  constantly,  once,  twice,  or  three  times  a  week  since  my  arrival 
in  Ceylon.  There  are  thousands  of  half-cast  people,  in  and  about  Co 
lombo,  who  stand  in  need  of  instruction  as  much  as  the  heathens,  and 
who  understand  the  English  language.  Mr.  Chater  has  a  place  of  wor 
ship  here,  in  which  we  preach  alternately  twice  a  week.  We  also  keep 
the  monthly  prayer  meeting,  and  a  private  prayer  meeting  every  Monday 
evening.  While  I  was  at  Jaffna,  I  (with  the  permission  of  Mr.  Twistle- 
ton,  senior  chaplain)  performed  divine  service  in  the  fort  for  the  few 
civil  and  military  officers  and  soldiers  there,  as  they  have  no  chaplain,  at 
that  station.  For  this  month  past,  since  I  have  been  obliged  to  give  up 
the  hope  of  going  to  Bombay,  I  have  laid  aside  the!  study  of  the  eastern 
languages,  until  I  am  determined  where  I  am  to  labor;  and  I  am  at 
present  reviewing  my  Greek  and  Hebrew,  with  the  study  of  critical  works 
on  the  Bible. 

[Mr.  N.  specifies  the  letters  which  he  had  previously  written,  and  observes  in  reference  to 
the  probability  that  the  letter  he  was  then  writing  would  be  examined  at  the  London  post-office. 
"The  worst  thing  I  have  to  say,  (relative  to  national  affairs)  is,  that  I  am  under  the  greatest 
obligations  to  his  majesty's  government,  and  that  I  do  most  deeply  lament  the  existence  of  the 
preseut  unhappy  war  between  the  two  countries."  He  proceeds  thus:] 

I  have  deposited  in  the  letter-box  at  Galle  two  parcels  directed  to  you. 
One  contains  two  printed  documents,  Mr.  Bisset's  sermon  before  the 
Colombo  Bible  Society,  and  a  specimen  of  the  eastern  translations  now 
in  the  mission-press  at  Serampore.  The  other  is  a  manuscript  of  six 
sheets  of  letter  paper,  containing  extracts  from  Mrs.  Newell's  letters  and 
diary,  and  an  account  of  her  sickness  and  death.  In  this  communica 
tion  you  will  find  much  information  respecting  our  affairs,  which  I  have 
not  repeated  in  my  letters  to  you.  I  shall  enclose  in  this  a  letter  to  Mrs. 
Atwood,  which  I  wrote  some  time  ago.  All  these  are  left  open  for  your 
perusal.  The  letter  and  the  manuscript,  when  you  have  read  them,  I  wish 
you  to  send  to  my  dear  mother,  Mrs.  Atwood.  I  received  letters  by  the 
Alligator — did  not  get  them  till  the  first  of  November.  Your  official 
letter,  and  that  of  Mr.  Evarts,  the  brethren  Hall  and  Nott  have.  I  have 
15 


114  APPENDIX  TO  REPORT.  1814. 

not  seen  them.  The  books  are  at  Calcutta.  We  have  received  no  order 
from  the  Committee  at  Calcutta  respecting  supplies,  but  expect  one  soon. 
The  Rev.  Mr.  Brown  is  dead,  and  Mr.  Harrington  is  absent.  The  Rev. 
Mr.  Thomason,  (a  good  man,)  has  taken  the  place  of  Mr.  Brown,  and 
G.  Udny,  Esq.  (another  good  man,)  the  place  of  Mr.  Harrington. 

[Mr.  N.  gives  a  statement  of  his  pecuniary  affairs,  adds  several  articles  of  intelligence,  and 
concludes  as  follows:] 

I  expect  another  opportunity  of  sending  letters  in  about  a  month,  and 
shall  write  again  at  that  time,  and  mention  such  things  as  do  not  occur 
to  me  now.  I  hope  then  to  be  more  particular  respecting  my  future 
prospects.  This  letter  must  serve  for  all  my  friends,  for  this  time.  The 
brethren  Hall  and  Nott,  I  trust,  will  immediately  return  from  England 
and  join  me.  Some  more  will  probably  come  out  with  "brother  Rice. 

Rev.  and  dear  Sir,  I  am  your  servant  for  Jesus'  sake. 

SAMUEL  NEWELL. 


MIJVUTES 


SIXTH    ANNUAL    MEETING 


THE  Board  met  in  Salem,  (Mass.)  according  to  appointment,  on 
Wednesday,  September  20,  1815,  and  was  continued  by  adjournment 
to  Friday,  the  22d. — Present, 

Gen.  JEDIDIAH  HUNTINGTON, 

Hon.  JOHN  TREADWELL,  Esq.  LL.  D. 

Rev.  JOSEPH  LYMAN,  D.  D. 

Rev.  SAMUEL  SPRING,  D.  D. 

Gen.  HENRY  SEWALL, 

Rev.  SETH  PAYSON,  D.  D. 

Rev.  JEDIDIAH  MORSE,  D.  D. 

Rev.  JESSE  APPLETON,  D.  D. 

Rev.  CALVIN  CHAPIN, 

Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  D.  D. 

Rev.  HENRY  DAVIS,  D.  D.  and 

JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq. 

The  session  was  opened  with  prayer  by  the  Vice  President.  On  the 
subsequent  days  the  meeting  was  opened  with  prayer  by  the  Rev.  Drs. 
Appleton  and  Lyman,  and  the  session  was  closed  with  prayer  by  the 
Rev.  Dr.  Morse. 

The  minutes  of  the  last  meeting  were  read. 

The  accounts  of  the  Treasurer,  as  examined  and  certified  by  the 
Auditor,  were  exhibited  and  accepted. 

The  annual  report  of  the  Prudential  Committee  was  read  and  accepted. 
The  following  gentlemen   were  appointed  officers   of  the  Board  for 
the  year  ensuing,  viz. 

The  Hon.  JOHN  TREADWELL,  Esq.  President. 

Rev.  SAMUEL  SPRING,  D.  D.  Vice  President. 
Rev.  Dr.  SPRING,  ^ 

Rev.  Dr.  MOKSE,  (.Pmdmtial  Committee. 

Kev.  Dr.   WORCESTER,    and  f 

Mr.  EVARTS,  J 

Rev.  Dr.  WORCESTER,  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Rev.  Mr.  CHAPIN,  Recording  Secretary. 

JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq.  Treasurer. 

Mr.  CHESTER  ADAMS,  Auditor. 


116  MINUTES  OF  THE  BOARD.  1815. 

Whereas  the  President  of  this  Board  has  stated,  that  a  legacy  of  $500 
has  been  given  to  this  Board,  by  Sarah  Norton,  late  of  Farmington, 
(Ct.)  deceased,  in  her  last  will  and  testament;  and  whereas  the  legacy  is 
held  at  present  in  litigation; — 

Voted,  That  the  President  and  Recording  Secretary  be  authorized  to 
employ  legal  counsel,  and  to  take  all  other  proper  measures  to  recover 
said  legacy. 

Voted,  That  the  Corresponding  Secretary  present  the  thanks  of  this 
Board  to  the  Church  Missionary  Society  in  England,  for  their  donation 
of  twenty  sets  of  the  Missionary  Register,  with  sundry  other  communi 
cations  on  the  subject  of  missions. 

Voted,  That  twenty-five  copies  of  the  annual  reports  of  this  Board, 
and  of  the  sermons  delivered  before  this  Board,  or  at  the  request  of  the 
Prudential  Committee,  which  have  been,  or  shall  be  published,  be  sent 
to  the  Secretary  of  the  Church  Missionary  Society,  for  the  use  of  said 
Society. 

Voted,  That  the  person  appointed  as  second  to  preach  before  the  an 
nual  meeting  of  the  Board,  shall  be  considered  as  appointed  the  preacher 
for  the  next  succeeding  year,  unless  he  shall  preach  the  sermon  in  the 
year  for  which  he  was  appointed  as  second. 

The  Rev.  Dr.  Davis  was  appointed  to  preach  at  the  next  annual  meet 
ing  of  the  Board,  and  the  Rev.  Dr.  Appleton  his  second. 

Public  worship  was  attended  in  the  evening,  when  the  annual  sermon 
was  delivered  by  the  Rev.  Mr.  Chapin,  from  Psalm  xcvi,  10: — Say 
among  the  heathen,  THE  LORD  REIGNETH. 

Voted,  That  the  thanks  of  this  Board  be  presented  to  the  Rev.  Mr. 
Chapin,  for  his  sermon  delivered  last  evening,  by  appointment  of  the 
Board;  that  a  copy  be  requested  for  publication;  and  that  Dr.  Lyman, 
Dr.  Appleton,  and  Gen.  Sewall,  be  a  committee  to  carry  this  vote  into 
effect. 

The  Corresponding  Secretary  was  directed  to  express  the  thanks  of 
this  Board  to  the  London  Missionary  Society,  for  the  Chinese  version  of 
the  New  Testament,  and  the  transactions  of  said  Society,  with  other 
documents  presented  by  them  to  this  Board. 

Voted,  That  it  be  distinctly  provided,  that  every  Missionary  employed 
in  the  service  of  this  Board,  is  to  be  considered  as  being,  under  Provi 
dence,  dependent  on  this  Board  for  support,  according  to  such  regula 
tions  as  the  Board,  or  Prudential  Committee  may,  from  time  to  time, 
recommend  or  approve;  and  that  all  the  earnings  which  any  Missionary, 
or  Missionary's  wife,  shall  in  any  way  procure,  shall  be  considered  as 
the  property  of  this  Board,  for  the  objects  of  the  mission,  and,  as  such, 
to  be  regularly  accounted  for  to  the  Prudential  Committee. 

Voted,  That  at  every  missionary  station,  to  which  more  than  one  mis 
sionary  shall  belong,  the  salaries  and  earnings  of  the  missionaries,  and 
presents  made  to  them,  or  any  of  them,  shall  constitute  a  common  stock, 
from  which  they  shall  severally  draw  their  support,  in  such  proportions, 
and  under  such  regulations,  as  may,  from  time  to  time,  be  found  advisa 
ble,  and  be  approved  by  this  Board,  or  by  the  Prudential  Committee. 

The  Prudential  Committee  were  authorized  to  allow  the  missionaries, 
at  each  missionary  station,  to  take  such  a  house  for  their  common  use, 


1815.  MINUTES  OP  THE  BOARD.  117 

as  may  be  suitable  for  their  accommodation,  and  to  charge  the  rent  of 
said  house  to  the  account  of  the  Board. 

Voted,  That  a  majority  of  the  Missionaries  on  any  station,  shall,  in 
their  regular  meetings,  decide  all  questions,  that  may  arise  in  regard  to 
their  proceedings  and  conduct,  in  which  the  mission  is  interested. 

Upon  the  principles  of  the  foregoing  votes,  the  subject  matter  of  policy 
or  social  compact,  for  the  regulation  of  our  Missionaries,  was  referred  to 
the  Prudential  Committee. 

Voted,  That  the  Prudential  Committee  be  authorized  to  make  to  the 
Missionaries  in  India,  such  further  allowance  for  extraordinary  expenses, 
as,  upon  their  representation,  on  an  account  stated,  shall  be  deemed  rea 
sonable  and  proper. 

The  Trustees  of  the  legacy,  given  by  the  late  Mrs.  Norris,  were  re 
quested  to  transfer  the  same  to  the  Board.* 

Voted,  That  nine  sets  of  the  Church  Missionary  Register,  and  other 
documents  received  with  it,  be  disposed  of  in  the  manner  following,  viz. 
To  Bowdoin  College,  Yale  College,  the  Theological  Seminary  at  Prince 
ton,  Middlebury  College,  Dartmouth  College,  Williams  College,  the 
Theological  Seminary  at  Andover,  William  Bartlet,  Esq.,  and  Mr.  Solo 
mon  Goodell,f  one  set  each. 

Voted,  That  the  Prudential  Committee  be  directed  to  employ  some 
suitable  person  or  persons  to  visit  St.  Louis,  St.  Genevieve,  and  any  other 
places,  as  they  shall  deem  expedient,  to  ascertain  arid  report  to  this 
Board,  what  measures  are  most  eligible  for  diffusing  the  light  and  bene 
fits  of  Christianity  among  the  Aborigines  in  the  western  and  southern 
parts  of  our  country. 

Voted,  That  the  Prudential  Committee  be  directed  to  hold  stated 
quarterly  meetings,  and  to  make  a  quarterly  communication,  in  the  form 
of  a  circular  letter,  to  each  association,  which  has  been,  or  shall  here 
after  be,  instituted  in  aid  of  this  Board. 

Voted,  That  the  Prudential  Committee  be  authorized  to  employ  agents 
to  assist  in  forming  auxiliary  societies;  otherwise  to  excite  the  attention 
of  the  public  to  the  objects  of  this  Board;  and  to  use  their  exertions  in 
obtaining  funds. 

Voted,  That  the  next  annual  meeting  be  holden  at  Hartford,  (Ct.)  on 
the  third  Wednesday  of  September,  1816,  at  10  o'clock,  A.  M.,  and  that 
the  Recording  Secretary  be  directed  to  make  the  necessary  arrangements 
for  that  meeting. 

The  Recording  Secretary  was  directed  to  transmit  to  every  member  of 
the  Board,  not  now  present,  information  of  the  time  and  place  of  the 
next  annual  meeting. 

Voted,  That  the  Corresponding  Secretary  present  the  thanks  of  the 
Board  to  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Bartlet,  for  the  very  convenient  accommodations 
which  she  has  furnished  for  the  present  meeting;  and,  likewise,  to  those 
'gentlemen  who  have  hospitably  entertained  the  members  during  the 
session. 

*  This  has  since  been  done  in  the  manner,  and  for  the  purposes,  described  in  the  will  of 
Mrs.  Norris. 

t  This  distinguished  friend  of  missions  had  left  the  world  before  the  meeting  of  the  Board 
though  his  death  was  not  then  known.  The  copy  of  the  Missionary  Register,  which  was  in 
tended  to  cheer  his  heart  in  the  decline  of  life,  will  be  sent  to  his  widow  as  a  token  of  grati 
tude  for  the  almost  unexampled  liberality  of  her  late  husband. 


118  REPORT.  1815. 

REPORT. 

BRETHREN, — Our  two  last  annual  reports  contained  much  of  interest 
ing  narrative:  recitals  of  the  pilgrimages  and  adventures,  perils  and  de 
liverances,  discouragements  and  consolations,  of  our  missionaries  in  the 
East;  seeking  a  door  of  entrance  to  the  heathen,  but  obstructed,  disap 
pointed,  and  held  in  continued  anxiety  and  suspense;  "troubled  on  every 
side,  yet  not  distressed;  perplexed,  but  not  in  despair;  persecuted,  but  not 
forsaken;  cast  down,  but  not  destroyed."  Those  recitals  were  interest 
ing,  as  they  shewed  in  a  very  clear  and  gratifying  light,  the  faith  and  pa 
tience,  the  firmnesss  and  prudence,  the  fortitude  and  devotedness  of  the 
brethren;  and  especially  as  they  afforded  many  affecting  and  animating 
proofs  of  the  wisdom  and  goodness,  the  faithfulness  and  mercy,  the 
almighty  protection  and  overruling  providence  of  God.  "The  Lord  God 
is  a  sun  and  shield;  the  Lord  will  give  grace  and  glory;  no  good  thing 
will  he  withhold  from  them  that  walk  uprightly.  Their  place  of  defence 
is  the  munitions  of  rocks;  their  eyes  shall  see  the  King  in  his  beauty; 
they  shall  behold  the  land  that  is  very  far  off."  If  our  present  Report 
contain  less  of  striking  narrative  and  affecting  incident,  it  is  because  our 
missionaries  have  found  at  length  an  open  door  and  a  resting  place;  and 
though  they  have  scarcely  commenced  their  public  labors,  yet  they  are 
quietly  and  diligently  preparing  themselves  for  activity  in  their  great  and 
arduous  work. 

At  our  last  anniversary  we  had  the  hope,  that  the  brethren  Hall  and 
Nott,  after  their  severe  trials,  would  be  permitted  to  remain  at  Bombay. 
This  hope  has  not  been  disappointed.  Since  the  latest  date  of  the  ac 
counts  then  communicated,  they  have  experienced  so  far  as  appears,  no 
molestation;  nothing  but  protection  and  kindness  from  the  government. 
That  latest  date  was  December  23,  1813. 

As  early  as  the  13th  of  the  next  month,  January,  1814,  Mr.  Newell 
received  from  them  such  intelligence,  as  gave  him  a  degree  of  assur 
ance,  that  the  mission  might  be  established  at  Bombay;  and  he  immedi 
ately  took  measures  of  preparation  for  leaving  Ceylon.  On  the  20th  of 
the  same  month  he  writes  in  his  journal,  "I  engaged  passage  in  a  Por 
tuguese  ship  bound  to  Goa,  as  there  was  no  opportunity  of  going  direct 
to  Bombay.  Before  my  departure  I  addressed  the  following  letter  to  the 
Governor. 

"To  his  Excellency    General   Brownrigg,    Governor   and   Commander 
in  Chief  in  the  Island  of  Ceylon. 

"Sir, — Having  resided  nearly  a  year  under  your  Excellency's  jurisdic 
tion,  and  experienced  during  that  time  every  indulgence  from  government 
which  I  could  wish,  I  beg  leave  to  express  the  deep  sense  I  have  of  your 
Excellency's  kindness  to  me;  and  to  ask  permission  to  depart  in  the  An 
gelica,  Portuguese  ship,  bound  to  Goa,  in  pursuance  of  my  original 
intention  of  joining  the  mission  in  Bombay.  I  should  esteem  it  an  addi 
tional  favor,  if  your  Excellency  would  be  pleased  to  give  me  a  testimonial, 
that  would  satisfy  the  Governor  of  Bombay,  that  I  leave  Ceylon  with 
your  Excellency's  consent  and  approbation. 

"I  have  the  honor  to  remain,  &c.  S.  NEWELL." 


1815.  REPORT.  119 

"I  felt  obligated,"  he  says,  "to  notify  the  Governor  of  my  departure, 
as  he  had  intimated  on  my  first  arrival  at  Colombo  that  I  was  not  to  re 
move  without  giving  him  previous  notice;  and  I  felt  a  real  pleasure  in 
expressing  my  gratitude  for  his  kindness  both  to  me  and  my  brethren." 
"The  Governor  informed  me  through  Lord  Moles  worth,  that  he  consent 
ed  to  my  departure,  and  would  write  by  mail  to  the  Governor  of  Bom 
bay  in  my  favor." 

After  a  residence  in  the  island  of  Ceylon  of  about  ten  months,  Mr. 
Newell  left  Colombo  for  Goa  on  the  28th  of  January;  and  on  the  4th  of 
February  the  Angelica  came  to  anchor  in  the  roads  of  Cochin,  where 
she  stopped  three  days,  and  afforded  him  an  opportunity  which,  he  says, 
"he  had  long  wished  for,  but  never  expected  to  be  favored  with;  that  of 
seeing  the  Cochin  Jews  and  the  Syrian  Christians."  Of  this  opportu 
nity  he  appears  to  have  availed  himself  with  great  diligence.  He  visited 
the  Jewish  synagogues  at  Cochin,  and  the  Syrian  church  at  Candenad, 
the  residence  of  the  late  primate  Mar  Dionysius.  The  results  of  his 
inquiries  and  observations  together  with  those  of  his  brethren  Hall  and 
Nott,  who  visited  the  same  places  about  three  months  before,  may  con 
stitute  an  interesting  part  of  an  appendix  to  this  report. 

On  the  7th  of  February  Mr.  Newell  left  Cochin,  and  on  the  24th  ar 
rived  at  Goa;  where  he  "visited  most  of  the  colleges,  churches,  and  monas 
teries,  saw  the  Vicar  General  of  the  Dominicans,  dined  with  the  Supe 
rior  of  the  Augustinians,  and  called  on  Father  Josephus  a  Doloribus, 
the  late  Inquisitor,  mentioned  by  Dr.  Buchanan."  "The  Inquisition  of 
Goa,"  he  says,  in  his  journal,  "is  no  more.  It  was  lately  abolished  by 
order  of  the  Prince  Regent  of  Portugal.  It  is  said,  however,  that  the 
Archbishop  retains  all  the  power  that  was  lodged  in  the  Court  of  the 
Inquisition." 

On  the  2d  of  March  Mr.  Newell  sailed  from  Goa,  and  on  the  7th  he 
writes  in  his  journal.  "Early  this  morning  the  harbor  and  town  of  Bom 
bay  appeared  in  full  view,  and  at  1 1  o'clock  I  landed  and  went  in  search 
of  my  friends,  whom  I  found  in  a  short  time.  It  was  a  joyful  meeting  to 
us  all.  We  had  been  separated  more  than  two  years,  had  all  of  us  passed 
through  many  trying  scenes,  and  often  given  up  the  idea  of  ever  meeting 
again  on  earth;  but  that  unseen  Hand  that  had  guided  us  in  all  our  per 
plexities,  and  led  us  in  a  mysterious  way,  had  at  length  brought  us  togeth 
er  in  the  very  place,  which,  in  our  conversations  on  the  other  side  of  the 
water,  we  had  often  contemplated  as  the  probable  seat  of  our  then  future 
mission.  And  .what  was  peculiarly  gratifying  to  us,  we  had  reason  to 
hope,  that  we  sSould  now  be  established  in  this  place,  and  be  allowed  to 
enter  on  our  work,  which  had  been  so  long  delayed.  Yet  we  rejoiced 
with  a  mixture  of  fear;  for  it  was  not  absolutely  certain  that  we  should  all 
be  allowed  to  remain  here." 

Soon  after  his  arrival  at  Bombay,  Mr.  Newell  had  an  attack  of  fever 
which  confined  him  several  days.  On  the  23d  of  the  same  month,  how 
ever,  he  writes: — "We  kept  a  day  of  fasting  and  prayer,  preparatory  to 
the  Lord's  supper,  which  we  proposed  to  celebrate  the  next  Sabbath. 
Saturday  evening  the  26th,  we  kept  another  season  of  special  prayer  with 
a  view  to  the  solemn  ordinance  which  we  expected  to  attend  upon  the 
ensuing  day.  Sabbath,  27th,  we  met  at  11  o'clock,  A.  M.  and  engaged 
in  prayer:  brother  Hall  delivered  an  address,  suited  to  the  solemn  occa- 


120  REPORT.  1815. 

sion,  and  brother  Nott  administered  the  ordinance.  There  was  a  variety 
of  circumstances  attending  this  transaction,  which  were  peculiarly  calcu 
lated  to  affect  our  minds.  We  were  naturally  led  to  look  back  on  all  the 
way  in  which  the  Lord  had  led  us,  since  we  devoted  ourselves  to  the  mis 
sionary  cause,  and  particularly  since  we  came  to  this  land.  Two  of  our 
brethren,  who  came  with  us  to  this  country,  had  been  separated  from 
us,  and  had  gone  to  different  and  distant  countries,  and  we  expected  to 
see  them  no  more  in  this  world.  One  of  our  little  number  had  finished 
her  work  and  received  an  early  release  from  the  pain  and  toils  of  the  mis 
sionary  pilgrimage.  Though  on  our  own  account,  we  could  not  but 
mourn  her  absence,  yet  we  had  reason  also  to  rejoice  in  the  hope,  that 
she  had  entered  into  her  rest;  and  though  she  could  not  return  to  us,  yet, 
if  we  were  the  children  of  God,  we  should  go  to  her,  and  partake  with 
her  at  the  marriage  supper  of  the  Lamb.  In  the  afternoon  I  preached 
to  our  own  family,  and  a  few  of  our  acquaintance,  who  usually  unite  with 
us  in  our  family  exercises  on  the  Sabbath." 

Soon  after  these  refreshing  scenes  of  joyous  meeting  and  of  holy  com 
munion,  on  the  8th  and  9th  of  April  the  brethren  wrote  to  the  Corres 
ponding  Secretary.  "Our  hopes,"  say  Messrs.  Hall  and  Nott,  "are 
strong,  and  we  look  on  the  prospect  with  great  delight.  We  trust  that 
God's  wonderful  and  merciful  dealings  with  us,  are  ere  long  to  be  crowned 
with  the  special  blessings  we  have  sought;  that  our  merciful  Father  has 
a  work  for  us  to  do  here;  and  that  his  various  dispensations  have  been 
allotted  with  fatherly  tenderness  and  care,  and  intended  to  teach  us  les 
sons  of  humility,  trust,  and  patience.  We  would  hope,  that  they  may 
make  us  more  prepared  for  our  work.  We  are  sensible  that  God  alone 
can  teach  us  to  profit.  Pray  for  us.  The  God  to  whom  you  pray 
dwells  also  in  this  land.  Here  he  dwells  in  his  own  almighty  strength; 
and,  in  answer  to  prayer,  accepted  from  your  altars,  can  pour  a  blessing; 
yea,  an  immediate  blessing,  upon  our  heads.  He  can,  he  may  in  the 
hour  of  darkness,  light  up  our  path,  cheer  our  desponding  hearts,  dissi 
pate  our  doubts,  and  fill  us  with  faith  and  love, — because  you  pray  for  us. 
We  have  great  reason  to  acknowledge  the  kind  attention  paid  to  our  cir 
cumstances  and  wishes,  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Carey,  the  Rev.  Mr.  Thomason 
and  George  Udny,  Esq.,  acting  as  your  Committee  in  Calcutta.  To  their 
efforts,  under  God,  we  are  indebted  for  the  hopes  we  now  enjoy." — "We 
add  a  few  lines,"  say  the  three  brethren  together,  "to  express  our  united 
gratitude  to  God  for  his  kindness  in  bringing  us  all  together,  after  more 
than  two  years  separation,  to  the  place  of  our  choice,  and  with  prospects 
so  favorable.  God  has  visited  us  with  judgments  hard  to  bear,  and  with 
mercies  for  which  no  gratitude  is  sufficient.  Pray  for  us  that  we  may  be 
knit  together  in  love;  that  we  may  be  diligent  in  our  calling;  that  God 
may  dwell  in  us  and  walk  in  us;  and  that  we  may  be  faithful  unto  death. 
Hereafter  we  shall  hope  to  write  to  you  in  our  united  capacity." 

To  these,,grateful  and  devout  sentiments  of  our  beloved  Missionaries, 
your  Committee  are  persuaded  the  hearts  of  this  Board  will  unitedly  and 
ardently  respond.  Here  then  let  us  religiously  record  our  thankful 
acknowledgment  to  the  Father  of  mercies  and  God  of  all  grace  for  his 
wonderful  kindness  to  them  and  to  us;  and  our  fervent  prayer,  that  his 
various  dealings  with  them  may  contribute  to  furnish  and  to  fit  them 
*Bore  completely  for  their  important  work,  turn  out  to  the  furtherance  of 


1815.  REPORT.  121 

the  Gospel  in  realms  of  darkness  and  of  the  shadow  of  death,  and 
redound  to  the  glory  of  his  adorable  name  through  the  thanksgivings  of 
many. 

Since  the  receipt  of  the  communication  of  April,  1814,  Letters  have 
been  received  from  the  three  brethren,  bearing  date,  June  10  and  13, 
and  December  29  and  30,  together  with  their  Journals  down  to  about 
the  time  of  their  last  date.  From  these  communications  it  appears  that 
they  regularly  performed  divine  worship,  and  preached,  at  their  own 
house,  every  Sabbath  day,  at  which  a  few  persons  besides  their  own 
family  usually  attended;  that  they  kept  a  prayer  meeting  on  every 
Wednesday  evening,  "to  seek  God's  blessing  on  their  mission,"  and 
"observed  the  first  Monday  of  every  month  as  a  season  of  prayer  for  the 
Church,  in  unison  with  the  friends  of  Missions,  in  India,  Europe^"  and 
our  own  country;  that  they  "applied  themselves  closely  to  the  study  of 
the  Mahratta  language,  the  vernacular  tongue  of  the  Hindoos  of  Bombay, 
and  of  many  millions  on  the"  hither  "side  of  India;"  that  with  much 
deliberation  they  had  formed  arid  adopted  a  system  of  polity  or  social 
order  for  the  regulation  of  their  little  community,  agreeably  to  the  Instruc 
tions  given  them  by  the  Prudential  Committee;  that  they  had  opened  a 
school  which  they  hoped  might  be  "so  managed  and  modified  as  to  em 
brace  half-cast  children  of  Europeans,  and  become  a  boarding  school  of 
considerable  importance  to  the  mission: — in  a  word,  that  they  had  been 
diligently  employed  in  the  requisite  preparations  and  arrangements  for 
the  establishment  of  the  mission,  and  for  the  eventual  extension  and 
success  of  their  labors.  In  their  joint  letter  of  29th  of  December  last 
they  say:  "We  are  now  drawing  near  the  close  of  the  third  year,  since 
you  sent  us  forth  with  the  message  of  peace  and  love  to  the  heathen  in 
the  East.  The  solemnities  of  that  interesting  day,  on  which  we  were 
designated  to  this  important  work,  are  still  fresh  in  our  minds,  with  all 
the  affecting  circumstances  of  the  parting  scene: — and  though  our  coun 
try  and  our  friends  are  still  dear  as  ever  to  our  hearts,  and  though  we 
have  experienced,  as  you  taught  us  to  expect,  'much  adversity,  much 
opposition,  and  many  dark  days  in  which  our  hearts  have  swelled  with 
grief,'  our  purpose  and  our  choice  remain  unaltered.  We  trust  we  do, 
at  this  moment,  renewedly  devote  ourselves  to  the  work,  and  rejoice  that 
God  has  given  us  this  grace,  to  preach  among  the  Gentiles  the  unsearch 
able  riches  of  Christ. — We  hope  that  nothing  which  has  befallen  us  will 
deter  others  for  a  moment  from  engaging  in  the  work.  Our  trials  on  the 
whole  have  not  been  greater,  than  we  had  reason  to  expect,  and  our  en 
couragements  are  great.  We  are  at  length  delivered  from  the  long  and 
painful  suspense,  in  which  we  have  been  held  and  are  now,  we  have  no 
reason  to  doubt,  permanently  settled  in  this  place.  Here  there  is  work 
enough  for  a  great  many  missionaries,  within  the  compass  of  a  few  miles. 
We  cannot  walk  the  streets  half  a  mile,  without  meeting  with  thousands 
of  heathens,  with  whom  we  may  mingle  and  converse  about  the  way  of 
salvation,  without  any  fear  of  giving  offence,  or  exciting  the  least  alarm. 
We  are  daily  becoming  more  familiar  with  their  language  and  their  ways, 
and  hope  soon  to  commence  the  great  work  of  preaching  to  them  the 
gospel  of  Christ.  There  are  many  facilities  here  for  the  prosecution  of 
our  work,  among  which  we  would  mention  with  gratitude  the  perfect 
security  to  our  persons  and  property,  which  we  enjoy  under  the  British 
16 


122  REPORT.  1815. 

government:  an  invaluable  blessing,  and  one  upon  which  we  could  never 
calculate  under  a  heathen  government/'' 

Such  was  the  situation,  such  were  the  occupations,  the  sentiments  and 
prospects  of  our  missionaries  at  Bombay,  nine  months  ago.  Later  than 
that  time  we  have  no  accounts  from  them;  but  we  have  reason,  we  think, 
with  a  good  degree  of  confidence,  that,  ere  this  day,  they  have  become  so 
expert  in  the  language  of  the  country,  as  to  be  able  to  preach  to  the 
perishing  natives  the  words  of  eternal  life.  The  station  in  which,  after 
many  disappointments.  Divine  Providence  has  placed  them,  is  a  most 
important  one,  and  peculiarly  eligible  for  the  permanent  seat  of  a  central 
mission.  In  the  midst  of  an  extensive  and  populous  region,  they  have  a 
field  apparently  open  to  them,  sufficient  for  the  employment  of  hundreds 
of  laborers;  nor  do  they  seem  to  entertain  a  doubt  that  others  of  their 
brethren  from  this  country  would  be  permitted  to  join  them,  and  take 
part  with  them  in  their  work.  And  besides  Bombay  and  the  surrounding 
country,  they  respectfully  but  earnestly  direct  our  attention  to  other  fields: 
particularly  to  Cochin  and  its  environs,  where  they  think  there  would  be 
little  difficulty  in  establishing  a  mission,  and  where  many  interesting 
circumstances,  some  of  them  rendered  doubly  interesting  by  the  glowing 
representations  of  Dr.  Buchanan,  invite  to  the  attempt;  and  the  island  of 
Ceylon,  where  every  facility  to  missionary  enterprize  is  offered,  and  where 
an  extensive  field  appears  to  be  white  already  to  the  harvest. 

To  this  last  mentioned  field  the  eyes  of  your  Committee  have  long 
been  turned,  with  ardent  desire  and  hope.  Immediately  after  the  re 
storation  of  peace,  an  event  most  auspicious  to  every  interest  dear  to  the 
good  man's  heart,  and  claiming  the  most  grateful  acknowledgments  to 
Him  who  sits  as  King  on  the  holy  Hill  of  Ziori,  it  was  resolved  to  lose 
no  time  in  fitting  out  a  new  mission  to  the  East.  Of  the  five  mission 
aries  who  had  for  a  considerable  time  been  held  in  an  anxiously  waiting 
posture,  Messrs.  Richards,  Bardwell,  and  Poor,  were  designated  for 
this  mission,  which  was  particularly  intended  for  the  Island  of  Ceylon. 
At  the  same  time,  it  was  proposed  to  send  the  other  two,  Messrs.  War 
ren  and  Meigs,  on  an  exploring  mission  to  some  of  the  Indian  tribes, 
in  the  western  and  southern  territories  of  this  country.  In  pursuance  of 
these  resolves,  the  21st  of  June  was  appointed  as  the  day,  for  setting 
apart  the  five  brethren  for  their  sacred  work,  by  solemn  ordination. 

On  the  appointed  day  the  missionaries  were  ordained,  at  the  Presby 
terian  church  in  Newburyport.  Ten  churches  by  their  Pastors  and  del 
egates,  together  with  the  Rev.  Professors  of  the  Theological  Seminary  at 
Aridover,  assisted  in  the  solemnities  of  the  occasion.  Propitious  heaven 
smiled  on  the  day.  A  vast  concourse  of  people  assembled,  and  gave 
every  attestation  of  deep  interest.  After  the  usual  ordination  solemn 
ities,  about  seven  hundred  communicants  of  different  churches  sat  down 
together  at  the  table  of  their  common  Lord  and  Savior,  gratefully 
to  commemorate  that  divine  love  which  was  displayed  in  the  great  pro 
pitiation  for  the  sins  of  the  whole  world,  solemnly  to  testify  their  joint 
participation  in  the  heavenly  design  of  imparting  the  blessings  of  salva 
tion  to  the  perishing  heathen,  and  unitedly  to  set  their  seal  to  the  prayers 
and  thanksgivings,  and  vows,  and  sacred  transactions  of  the  day.  The 
scene  throughout  was  most  interesting,  impressive,  and  refreshing;  and 
was  a  precious  earnest,  as  we  may  devoutly  hope,  of  immortal  blessings 
to  many  in  distant  lands,  and  of  the  holy  joys  of  that  day  when  they 


1815.  REPORT.  123 

shall  come  from  the  East,  and  from  the  West,  and  from  the  North,  and 
from  the  South  and  sit  down  together  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Without  delay,  arrangements  were  made,  in  the  hope  that  the  Mis 
sionaries  would  soon  depart  to  the  scenes  of  their  respective  destinations. 
But  unforeseen  hindrances  have  occurred:  and  Divine  Providence,  in 
the  mean  time,  has  overruled  one  considerable  part  of  the  Committee's 
original  plan.  In  two  or  three  days  after  the  ordination,  Mr.  Warren 
was  affected  with  a  bleeding  at  the  lungs,  which  rendered  it  for  some 
time  painfully  doubtful  whether  he  would  ever  be  employed  in  mission 
ary  labors,  and  decisively  took  him  off  from  the  contemplated  western 
mission.  Through  the  mercy  of  God,  however,  he  soon  appeared  to  be 
slowly  convalescent,  and  in  pursuance  of  special  and  very  respectable 
medical  advice,  it  was  determined  by  your  Committee  to  send  him  with 
his  brethren  to  the  East  as  the  most  hopeful  means  of  re-establishing  his 
health,  and  securing  his  future  usefulness.  The  destination  of  Mr.  War-* 
ren  being  thus  providentially  changed,  it  was  judged  expedient  to  change 
that  also  of  his  associate,  Mr.  Meigs;  and  they  are  now  both  of  them 
destined  to  go  out  with  the  other  three  brethren  to  the  East.  It  is  due  to 
Mr.  Warren  and  Mr.  Msigs  distinctly  to  state,  that  although  they  had 
long  contemplated  India  as  the  future  scene  of  their  labors  and  turned 
all  their  missionary  desires  and  thoughts  towards  that  interesting  field; 
and  although  when  it  proposed  to  them  to  take  a  destination  in  all  re 
spects  so  different  as  that  of  a  mission  to  the  Western  Indians,  they  felt 
at  first  no  small  degree  of  painful  disappointment;  yet,  after  attentively 
considering  the  subject,  in  the  light  in  which  it  was  presented  to  them 
by  the  Committee,  they  yielded  to  the  proposal  with  a  spirit  of  cheerful 
acquiescence,  which  afforded  a  highly  gratifying  evidence  of  their  sin 
cere  devotedness  to  go  whithersoever  Divine  Providence  might  direct. 

The  brig  on  board  which  the  five  missionaries,  four  of  them  with  their 
wives,  are  to  embark,  is  now  in  a  state  of  advanced  preparation,  and  is 
expected  to  sail  from  Newburyport,  in  three  or  four  weeks,  directly  for 
Ceylon.  There  it  is  intended  that  the  brethren  should  be  left,  with  in 
structions  to  exercise  their  sound  discretion,  in  view  of  the  circumstances 
which  may  be  presented  to  them  upon  the  spot;  whether  to  establish 
themselves  in  some  station  or  stations  upon  that  island,  or  to  go,  all  or  a 
part  of  them,  to  Bombay,  Cochin,  or  elsewhere,  as  Divine  Providence 
shall  seem  to  direct.  And  to  Divine  Providence,  infinitely  wise  and  in 
finitely  good,  this  Board  will  commit  them  with  the  most  affectionate 
and  devout  benedictions. 

Though,  for  the  reasons  before  stated,  your  Committee  have  found  it 
necessary  to  suspend,  for  the  present,  the  design  of  a  western  mission; 
yet  they  would  by  no  means  have  it  understood  that  the  design  is  ulti 
mately  relinquished.  It  is  cherished  indeed  under  a  very  sacred  sense 
of  duty  and  with  increasing  ardency  of  hope.  From  the  best  informa 
tion  which  the  Committee  have  been  able  to  obtain,  and  they  have  taken 
care  to  obtain  such  as  they  think  may  be  relied  on  as  substantially  cor 
rect,  they  estimate  that  within  the  United  States  and  their  Territories, 
there  are  about  two  hundred  and  forty  thousand  Indians,  divided  and 
subdivided  into  about  seventy  tribes  and  clans.  Nearly  one  hundred 
thousand  of  these  Indians  are  on  this  side  the  Mississippi;  and  of  these 
the  four  Southern  tribes,  the  Creeks,  Choctaws,  Chickasaws,  and  Cher- 
okees,  comprise  about  seventy  thousand;  more  than  one  fourth  part  of 


124  REPORT.  1815. 

number  of  Aborigines  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  United  States.  These 
four  tribes  seem  to  claim  very  particular  attention  on  account  not  only  of 
their  comparative  numerical  importance:  but  also  of  their  geographical 
situation,  in  a  fine  country  and  climate,  and  in  the  neighborhood  of  a 
rapidly  increasing  white  population;  and  moreover  of  the  disposition  and 
habits,  especially  of  the  Cherokees,  Chickasaws,  and  Choctaws,  tend 
ing  towards  a  state  of  civilization,  and  favorable  to  the  reception  among 
them  of  missionaries  and  other  instructors.  In  1804  the  Rev.  Gideon 
Blackburn,  whose  praise  should  be  in  all  the  churches,  instituted,  under 
the  auspices  of  the  General  Assembly  of  the  Presbyterian  Church,  a 
mission  among  the  Cherokees,  which  he  conducted  in  person  and  with 
very  inadequate  assistance  and  support;*  and  within  about  five  years, 
between  four  and  five  hundred  young  persons  of  both  sexes  were  so  in 
structed  as  to  be  able  to  read  with  a  good  degree  of  facility  in  the 
English  Bible;  were  proportionably  advanced  in  spelling,  writing,  and 
arithmetic;  and  at  the  same  time  were  taught  the  principles  of  the 
Christian  religion.  Many  Bibles  and  religious  tracts  were  distributed, 
and  several  individuals,  some  young  and  some  of  mature  age,  became 
hopeful  and  exemplary  Christians.  The  Cherokee  tribe  is  estimated  at 
twelve  thousand  souls.  If  we  suppose  four  thousand  of  them  to  be  of  an 
age,  suitable  for  attending  schools;  and  four  or  five  hundred  of  these, 
nearly  an  eighth  part,  were  brought  forward  to  the  state  of  improvement 
now  described,  in  the  short  period  of  five  years,  by  the  exertions  of  one 
man:  what  might  not  be  effected,  with  the  blessing  of  God,  by  a  com 
bined,  well  supported,  and  well  conducted  effort?  Were  schools  to  be 
established  upon  Mr.  Blackburn's  plan,  at  different  stations,  so  as  to  ac 
commodate  the  whole  tribe,  and  these  schools  supplied  with  good  in 
structors  and  placed  under  the  superintendence  of  a  few  able  mission 
aries,  who,  besides  the  care  of  the  schools,  should  be  employed  in  other 
missionary  labors;  would  it  be  chimerical  to  calculate,  that  in  a  course 
of  years  not  very  long,  the  tribe  at  large  would  become  English  in  their 
language,  Christian  in  their  religion,  and  civilized  in  their  general 
habits  and  manners'?  One  rising  generation  being  generally  initiated  in 
the  rudiments  of  English  learning,  and  the  principles  of  Christianity;  the 
next  generation  would  come  forward  under  vastly  increased  advantages; 
and  the  third  might  be  able  to  carry  on  the  design  with  little  extraneous 
aid.  The  Committee  would  respectfully  submit  to  this  Board,  and  beg 
that  it  may  be  submitted  to  the  Christian  public,  whether  the  probability 
of  success  in  such  a  design,  together  with  the  vast  importance  of  the 
end,  be  not  sufficient  to  justify  and  demand  an  earnest,  vigorous,  and 
persevering  experiment.  That  not  only  the  Cherokees,  but  their  neigh 
bors,  the  Chickasaws  and  Choctaws,  have  dispositions  and  habits  in  no 
small  degree  favorable  to  such  an  attempt,  we  have  very  satisfactory 
evidence:  and  the  plan  once  established  among  them,  and  the  happy  re 
sults  of  it  made  manifest,  it  might  be  extended,  as  Providence  should 
open  the  way,  to  the  less  tractable  Creeks,  and  other  tribes,  with  in 
creased  facilities  and  augmented  encouragement. 

Whether  we  turn  our  eyes  to  the  East,  or  to  the  West,  or  to  the  South, 
we  cannot  avoid  being  deeply  impressed  with  the  conviction,  that  the 
harvest  is  truly  great,  but  the  laborers  are  few.  At  the  same  time,  there 

*  The  Committee  of  Missions  of  the   General   Assembly  appropriated    annually  only  five 
hundred  dollars. 


1815.  REPORT.  125 

is  evidence  which  claims  the  most  grateful  recognition,  that  the  Lord  of 
the  harvest  is  not  unmindful  of  the  present  spiritual  wants  of  mankind. 
Besides  our  eight  missionaries,  gofie  arid  now  going  to  their  scenes  of 
labor,  there  are  five  who  have  offered  themselves,  with  very  satisfactory 
testimonials,  to  be  employed  by  this  Board:  Mr.  Burr  Baldwin  whose 
health  has  been  so  much  impaired,  as  to  keep  him  back  from  active 
employment,  but  is  at  present  in  a  hopeful  state,  two  students  at  the 
Theological  Seminary  at  Princeton,  (N.  J.)  and  two  at  Andover.  Nor 
should  it  be  overlooked,  that  the  late  remarkable  effusions  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  on  our  Colleges,  afford  the  animating  hope,  that  not  a  few  young 
men  will  be  inclined  soon  to  offer  themselves  for  the  service  of  God  in 
the  Gospel  of  his  Son,  both  in  our  churches  at  home,  and  among  'the 
heathen  abroad. 

The  concerns  of  this  board  are  becoming  from  year  to  year  more  and 
more  weighty,  and  the  care,  the  labor,  and  the  expense  are  proportiori- 
ably  increasing.  The  care  and  the  labor  must  be  ours,  with  humble 
reliance*on  the  all-sufficiency  of  God;  for  means  of  defraying  the  expense, 
we  must  chiefly  depend  under  Providence  on  the  liberality  of  the  Chris 
tian  public.  This  dependence,  we  have  reason  to  believe,  will  not  be  in 
vain.  Hitherto  the  annual  subscriptions  and  occasional  benefactions 
have  exceeded  our  expenditures.  There  are  at  present,  in  the  different 
parts  of  our  country,  more  than  thirty  Auxiliary  Societies,  whose  annual 
contributions  have  amounted  on  an  average  for  four  years  past,  to  about 
five  thousand  dollars.  Besides  these  there  are  about  fifty  female  associa 
tions,  formed  under  different  names,  for  the  same  purpose  of  supplying 
funds  for  this  Board.  The  benefactions  otherwise  contributed  during 
the  last  year  amount  to  more  than  $5,000;  and  the  proceeds  of  our  funds 
at  interest  to  about  $560.  The  legacy  of  thirty  thousand  dollars,  be 
queathed  by  our  benefactress  of  grateful  memory,  the  late  Mrs.  Mary 
Norris,  and  held  so  long  under  perplexing  and  expensive  litigation,  has 
at  length  been  adjudged  to  the  Trustees:  and  is  now,  with  the  deduc 
tion  of  the  expenses  of  the  suits,  held  by  them,  subject  to  the  direction 
of  the  Board.  This,  if  well  invested,  will  constitute,  together  with  our 
other  stocks,  a  permanent  fund,  whose  annual  proceeds  will  be  consid 
erable.  We  have  now,  however,  eight  missionaries,  instead  of  three, 
dependent  on  us  for  support.  Our  expenditures,  therefore,  for  the  year 
to  come  must  be  more  than  they  have  been  in  preceding  years;  and 
must  increase  with  every  addition  to  the  number  of  our  missionaries,  and 
to  the  extension  of  our  operations.  With  this  consideration,  it  is  highly 
important  that  the  friends  of  missions  throughout  the  country  should 
be  impressed;  and  what  method  should  be  adopted  to  make  the  due  im 
pression,  and  turn  it  to  the  best  account  for  the  security  of  a  permanent 
supply  of  funds,  may  deserve  the  attentive  consideration  of  the  Board. 

Your  Committee  and  all  the  Members  of  this  Board  are  aware  that 
there  are  other  objects,  besides  those  which  our  institution  directly  con 
templates,  which  demand  and  urgently  demand,  the  charitable  attention 
of  the  Christian.  Domestic  Missionary  Societies,  Bible  Societies,  and 
Societies  for  aiding  the  education  of  young  men  for  the  ministry,  Tract 
Societies,  and  Moral  Societies,  have  all  of  them  objects  of  incalculable 
importance,  objects,  which  we  would  by  no  means  hinder,  but  by  all 
means  promote.  These  objects,  indeed,  together  with  ours,  are  all  in 
their  nature  harmonious  and  closely  allied.  The  cause  is  one;  and  by 


126  REPORT.  1815. 

all  who  are  engaged  in  it,  in  whatever  department,  it  should  be  sacredly 
regarded  as  one.  There  need  be  no  jealousy,  no  interference;  no  other 
strife  than  to  provoke  one  another  onto  love  and  good  works.  There 
need  be  no  fear  that  any  one  of  these  objects  will  exhaust  the  liberality  of 
individuals  or  of  the  community.  We  have  a  noble  example  before  us. 
The  several  Societies  in  Great  Britain,  besides  their  home  missions,  em 
ploy  not  less  than  two  hundred  missionaries  abroad  in  different  parts  of 
the  world.  The  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society  issues  annually  more 
than  two  hundred  thousand  Bibles  and  Testaments  in  various  languages, 
and  expends  annually  more  than  two  hundred  thousand  dollars  in  pro 
moting  its  great  object  in  the  four  quarters  of  the  globe.  Besides  the 
more  magnificent  institutions,  there  are  in  the  same  kingdom  many 
others  of  similar  spirit  and  of  no  inconsiderable  consequence,  among 
which  is  a  Religious  Tract  society,  which  circulates  among  different  na 
tions  and  different  languages,  more  than  a  million  tracts  in  a  year.  The 
contributions  to  those  societies,  notwithstanding  the  incalculable  ex 
pense  of  the  wars  in  which  that  kingdom  has  been  engaged,  have  from 
year  to  year  been  constantly  increasing.  In  the  last  two  years  the  an 
nual  receipts  of  the  Church  Missionary  Society  rose  from  about  twelve 
thousand  dollars  to  about  fifty  thousand:  and  this  and  the  other  princi 
pal  Missionary  Societies  are  continually  receiving  great  accessions  of 
strength  and  of  resources,  and  continually  extending  their  plans  and 
their  operations.  A  similar  spirit  is  rising  in  this  country,  and  by  proper 
means  may  be  advanced  to  a  proportional  activity  and  productiveness. 
Nor  is  there  any  danger  that  by  this  spirit  of  liberality  the  community 
will  be  impoverished.  It  is  estimated  that  the  total  annual  expenditures 
of  all  the  Missionary  and  Bible  Societies  in  England  do  not  amount  to 
the  annual  expense  of  supporting  a  single  ship  of  the  line.  What  we  have 
most  to  fear  is,  that  the  principal  functionaries  of  the  Board  will  not  be 
able,  with  their  other  occupations,  to  bestow  upon  the  continually  accumu 
lating  business,  that  attention  which  its  augmenting  importance  will  de 
mand.  In  regard  to  this  subject,  however,  as  well  as  in  regard  to  every 
other  concern,  pertaining  to  this  institution,  the  wisdom  of  the  Board  will 
be  exercised,  under  the  direction  of  Him  in  whom  all  fulness  dwells. 

This  Report  the  Committee  beg  leave  to  submit,  in  the  full  confidence 
that  the  Board  will  perceive  in  it  many  reasons  of  devout  thankfulness 
to  God,  and  many  inducements  to  pursue  our  great  object  with  un 
remitting  zeal.  Hitherto  the  Lord  hath  helped  us.  The  work  is  in  his 
hand,  it  depends  for  its  success  entirely  upon  his  blessing. 

SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  Clerk  of  the  P.  C. 

PECUNIARY   ACCOUNTS. 

The  American  Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions  in  account  current  with  Jeremiali 

Evarts,  their  Treasurer,  Dr. 
To  cash  paid   from  Sept.  1,  1814,  to  Aug.  31,  1815,  in  conformity  to  orders  of  the  Board, 

and  of  the  Prudential  Committee,  from  No.  80  to  No.  112,  inclusive,  $5,007  80 

To  losses  by  counterfeit  bills  received  in  donations,  19  00 

To  balance  carried  to  the  credit  of  the  Board  in  new  account,  Sept.  1,  1815,  19,833  30 

524,860  10 
Contra  Cr. 

By  balance  brought  to  the  credit  of  the  Board  in  new  account,  Sept.  1,  1814,          13,467  53 
By  cash  received  in  donations,  from  September  1,  1814,  to  August  31,  1815,          10,812  22 
By  cash  received  as  income  of  stock  and  interest  on  notes,                   $577  14 
By  postage,  and  discount  on  uncurrent  bills,  reimbursed,  3  21 580  35 

#24,86010 


MINUTES 


SEVENTH  ANNUAL  MEETING 


THE  seventh  annual  meeting  of  the  Board  was  held  in  Hartford,  (Ct.) 
at  the  House  of  Mr.  Henry  Hudson,  on  the  18th,  19th,  and  20th  days  of 
September,  1816.  Present, 

Gen.  JEDIDIAH  HUNTINGTON, 
Hon.  JOHN  TREADWELL,  LL.  D. 
Rev.  JOSEPH  LYMAN,  D.  D. 
Rev.  SAMUEL  SPRING,  D.  D. 
Rev,  JEDIDIAH  MORSE,  D.  D. 
Rev.  CALVIN  CHAPIN,  D.  D. 
Rev.  JESSE  APPLETON,  D.  D. 
Rev.  ALEXANDER  PROUDFIT,  D.  D. 
Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  D.  D. 
Rev.  HENRY  DAVIS,  D.  D.,  and 
JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq. 

The  meeting  was  opened  with  prayer,  on  the  three  successive  days, 
by  the  Rev.  Drs.  Lyman,  Proudfit,  and  Morse,  successively;  and  was 
closed  with  prayer  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Appleton. 

The  annual  accounts  of  the  Treasurer  were  exhibited,  as  examined 
and  certified  by  the  Auditor,  and  were  accepted. 

The  annual  Report  of  the  Prudential  Committee  was  read  and  ac 
cepted. 

The  officers  of  the  Board  are  the  same  as  last  year;  viz. 
The  Hon.  JOHN  TREADWELL,  Esq.  President. 

Rev.  SAMUEL  SPRING,  D.  D.    Vice  President. 
Rev.  Dr.  SPRING,  ~) 

Rev.  Dr.  .MORSE,  \Pmdential  Committee, 

Rev.  Dr.   WORCESTER,  and  ( 

Mr.  EVARTS,  J 

Rev.  Dr.  WORCESTER,  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Rev.  Dr.  CHAPIN,  Recording  Secretary. 

JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq.    Treasurer,  and 

CHESTER  ADAMS,  Esq.  Auditor. 

A  petition  was  presented  by  James  Morris,  Esq.  and  the  Rev.  Charles 
Prentice,  signed  by  them  and  by  the  Rev.  Joseph  Harvey,  on  the  subject 
of  establishing  a  school  in  this  country  for  the  education  of  heathen 
youths,  arriving  here  from  various  parts  of  the  Pagan  world. 


128  MINUTES  OF  THE  BOARD.  1816. 

The  Rev.  Drs.  Lyman,  Morse,  and  Appleton  were  appointed  a  commit 
tee  to  confer  with  the  gentlemen*  just  named,  and  to  report  to  the  Board. 
Voted,  That  the  Board  highly  approve  of  the  services  of  Mr.  Elias 
Cornelius,  in  soliciting  aid  for  the  support  of  schools  to  educate  children 
in  heathen  lands,  and  recommend  it  to  the  Prudential  Committee  to  con 
tinue  him  in  this  service. 

Letters  from  the  Rev.  Presidents  Backus  and  Brown,  addressed  to  the 
President  of  this  Board,  concerning  two  Indian  youths,  were  communi 
cated,  and  referred  to  the  Prudential  Committee. 

The  Committee,  to  whom  was  referred  the  petition  respecting  the 
establishment  of  a  school  for  the  education  of  heathen  youths,  presented 
a  report,  which,  after  amendment,  was  accepted,  and  is  as  follows: 

That  the  establishment  of  such  a  school,  as  is  described  by  these 
respectable  petitioners,  is  expedient; — 

That  this  school  be  located  in  such  place,  as  the  agents  hereafter 
named  shall  designate; — 

That  the  Hon.  John  Treadwell,  the  Rev.  Dr.  Dwight,  James  Morris, 
Esq.,  the  Rev.  Dr.  Chapin,  and  the  Rev.  Messrs.  Lyman  Beecher,  Charles 
Prentice,  and  Joseph  Harvey,  be  agents  of  this  Board;  that  any  three  of 
them  shall  be  a  quorum  for  the  transaction  of  business,  when  all  shall 
have  been  notified;  and  that  the  Hon.  John  Treadwell  be  authorized  and 
requested  to  call  the  first  meeting  of  the  agents,  at  such  time  and  place 
as  he  shall  deem  expedient; — 

That  the  said  agents  be  empowered  and  requested  to  form  such  a  plan 
for  establishing  and  conducting  a  school  for  the  education  of  heathen 
youths  in  our  country,  for  the  purposes  expressed  in  the  petition,  as  to 
them  shall  appear  most  conducive  to  the  attainment  of  the  object  of  such 
school;  subject,  however,  to  revision  by  this  Board; — 

That  all  monies  contributed,  or  hereafter  to  be  contributed,  for  the 
support  of  said  school,  shall  be  remitted  to  the  Treasurer  of  the  Board, 
or  deposited  according  to  his  direction; — and, 

That  the  said  agents  make  an  annual  report  of  their  doings  to  this 
Board,  and  receive  from  them,  from  time  to  time,  such  instructions  as 
they  shall  deem  it  expedient  to  give. 

The  Corresponding  Secretary  was  directed  to  express  the  thanks  of 
this  Board  to  Mr.  Edward  Thompson,  of  Philadelphia,  for  his  generous 
offer  of  a  gratuitous  passage  to  such  missionaries,  as  the  Board  may  soon 
wish  to  send  into  India. 

The  same  officer  was  also  directed  to  express  the  thanks  of  this  Board 
to  a  distinguished  member  of  the  Court  of  Directors  of  the  East  India 
Company,  for  his  able  defence  of  the  American  Missionaries  before  that 
Court. 

On  Thursday  evening  the  annual  sermon  was  preached  before  a  nu 
merous  and  respectable  audience,  in  the  Brick  Church,  by  the  Rev.  Dr. 
Davis,  from  Psalm  cxix,  96.  I  have  seen  an  end  of  all  perfection:  but 
thy  commandment  is  exceeding  broad. 

Voted,  That  the  thanks  of  this  Board  be  presented  to  the  Rev.  Dr. 
Davis  for  his  sermon  delivered  on  Thursday  evening;  that  a  copy  thereof 

*  These  gentlemen  were  requested  to  lay  the  subject  before  the  Board,  by  a  large  and  re 
spectable  meeting  of  persons  friendly  to  the  education  of  heathen  youths,  which  was  convened 
at  New  Haven,  during  the  session  of  the  General  Association,  in  June. 


1816.  REPORT. 

be  requested  for  the  press;  and  that  the  Rev.  Drs.  Morse  and  Appleton, 
and  Gen.  Huntington  be  a  committee  to  carry  this  vote  into  effect. 

Voted,  That  this  Board  exceedingly  regret,  that  their  missionary,  the 
Rev.  Samuel  Nott,  who,  in  circumstances  of  arduous  difficulty  and 
severe  trial,  had  acquitted  himself  in  a  manner  highly  creditable  to  the 
missionary  cause,  should  afterwards  have  judged  himself  at  liberty  to 
abandon  the  mission  at  Bombay,  on  account  of  his  health,  without  a 
previous  reference  of  his  case  to  this  Board,  when  the  case  did  not,  as  it 
appears  to  this  Board  it  did  not,  require  an  immediate  departure. 

Voted,  That  the  mission  of  the  Rev.  Samuel  Nott,  as  far  as  pertains 
to  his  appointment  by  this  Board,  terminated  when  he  finally  left  Bombay. 

The  Hon.  Stephen  Van  Rensselaer,  of  Albany,  was  unanimously 
elected  a  member  of  this  Board. 

Voted,  That  the  next  annual  meeting  of  this  Board  be  held  at  North 
ampton,  (Mass.)  on  the  third  Wednesday  of  September,  1817,  at  ten 
o'clock,  A.  M.,  and  that  the  Rev.  Dr.  Lyman  be  requested  to  make  the 
necessary  arrangements. 

The  Rev.  Dr.  Appleton  stands  first  preacher  for  that  occasion,  and  the 
Rev.  Dr.  Spring  was  appointed  to  preach  in  case  of  his  failure. 

Voted,  That  the  thanks  of  this  Board  be  presented  to  Mr.  Henry  Hud 
son  for  the  very  convenient  accommodations  and  generous  hospitality 
which  he  has  furnished  to  the  Board  during  the  present  meeting;  to  the 
other  individuals  and  families  in  this  city,  whose  hospitality  has  been 
experienced  by  the  members  of  the  Board;  and  to  Mr.  Eli  Roberts,  and 
the  choir  of  singers  under  his  direction,  for  their  very  acceptable  services 
in  the  public  religious  exercises  of  Thursday  evening. 

Voted,  That  it  be  the  duty  of  the  Prudential  Committee  to  compile  and 
publish  a  report,  including  their  annual  report,  a  statement  of  the 
Treasurer's  accounts,  such  a  detail  of  donations  as  may  be  found  useful, 
extracts  from  the  minutes  of  the  present  session,  and  such  other  informa 
tion  as  they  shall  deem  expedient. 

REPORT. 

BRETHREN, — Refreshing,  after  an  absence  of  a  year,  are  the  counte 
nances  of  friends,  and  the  greetings  of  brotherly  affection;  but  still  more 
refreshing  are  the  grateful  recollections  of  heavenly  good  will  towards 
men,  and  the  lively  anticipations  of  promised  mercy,  fulfilled  unto  all  the 
families  of  the  earth,  most  intimately  associated  with  this  consecrated 
anniversary.  These  are  indeed  like  the  "dew  of  Hermon,  as  the  dew 
that  descended  upon  the  mountains  of  Zion;  where  the  Lord  commanded 
the  blessing,  even  life  for  evermore."  May  He  graciously  command  his 
blessing  on  this  meeting,  and  on  all  our  deliberations,  and  measures,  for 
the  advancement  of  his  glory,  and  the  salvation  of  men. 

Our  last  Annual  Report  brought  down,  the  history  of  our  Eastern  mis 
sion  just  to  the  close  of  the  year  1814.  At  that  period,  our  missionaries 
were  in  a  good  degree  tranquillized  in  the  persuasion,  that  they  would 
be  suffered,  without  further  molestation,  to  remain  at  Bombay.  Of  this, 
however,  they  had  no  assurance;  and  the  state  of  precarious  sufferance 
in  which  they  were  held,  was  attended  with  very  considerable  incon 
veniences.  But  our  last  communications  from  them,  bearing  date  Nov. 
17 


130  REPORT.  1816. 

29,  1815,  give  us  the  gratifying  intelligence,  that  they  have  been  released 
from  their  embarrassments.  "His  Excellency,  Sir  Evan  Nepean,"  they 
say,  "has  just  personally  communicated  to  us  the  result  of  our  concerns 
with  government.  After  briefly  recapitulating  what  had  taken  place,  he 
said  that  the  whole  business  had  been  represented  to  the  Court  of  Direc 
tors,  and  that  they  in  reply  had  stated,  that  the  communications  from  the 
Bombay  government  concerning  us  weie  such  as  led  them  to  think  our 
object  was  simply  the  promotion  of  religion;  and  that  therefore  he  (Sir 
Evan)  was  at  liberty  to  allow  us  to  remain  if  he  chose,  and  that  they 
should  acquiesce  in  such  a  decision."  His  Excellency  added,  "I  can 
now  assure  you  that  you  have  my  entire  permission  to  remain  here,  so 
long  as  you  conduct  yourselves  in  a  manner  agreeably  to  your  office.  I 
shall  feel  no  difficulty  in  allowing  you  to  go  to  any  part  of  this  Presidency; 
and  I  heartily  wish  you  success  in  your  work."  He  repeated  his  expressions 
of  confidence  in  us,  his  belief  that  we  were  doing  good,  and  his  attach 
ment  to  the  object.  In  replying  on  our  part,  it  was  said,  that  we  were 
greatly  obliged  to  his  Excellency  for  the  kindness  which  he  had  shewn  us, 
the  interest  he  had  taken  in  our  mission,  and  the  measures  which  he  had 
employed  to  promote  it." — The  brethren  remark,  "We  had  not  been  ex 
pecting  any  further  communications  from  government,  but  supposed  that 
we  should  merely  be  left  undisturbed  in  the  pursuit  of  our  object.  This 
assurance  strengthens  us.  We  praise  the  Lord,  and  implore  grace  to  be 
faithful  laborers  in  this  vineyard  which  he  has  given  us  in  a  manner  so 
remarkable.  We  are  now  relieved  from  our  former  restrictions,  and  ac 
knowledged  as  .residents  in  the  country;  and  we  think  the  manner  in 
which  this  assurance  is  given  appears  favorable  to  the  introduction  of 
other  missionaries  here." 

An  event  so  auspicious  to  the  mission,  claims  the  grateful  acknowl 
edgments  of  this  Board  to  the  Supreme  Disposer;  and  considered  as  the 
issue  of  a  series  of  occurrences,  for  a  long  time  of  dark  and  disastrous 
aspect,  may  reasonably  be  hailed,  with  religious  joy,  as  a  hopeful  presage 
of  good  to  that  important  portion  of  the  heathen  world. 

Little,  therefore,  should  we  be  disheartened  by  an  event  of  a  different 
kind;  which,  however,  could  not  but  awaken  very  deep  concern.  We  allude 
to  the  return  of  our  missionary,  the  Rev.  Mr.  Nott.  Soon  after  his  arrival 
in  India,  Mr.  Nott  was  attacked  with  a  disease  which  is  common  in  that 
country,  and  which  often  proves  fatal  to  persons  not  inured  to  that  cli 
mate.  Afterward,  from  time  to  time,  he  was  visited  with  similar  attacks, 
and  his  health  generally  was  not  good.  At  length  it  became  a  question 
with  him  whether  he  ought  not  to  abandon  a  country,  where  his  prospect 
for  health  and  for  life  was  so  dark.  Upon  this  question  he  consulted  his 
physicians,  and  had  from  them  a  decided  opinion,  "that  the  climate  of 
the  East  Indies  was  very  unfavorable  to  his  constitution,  and  that  he 
could  not  remain  in  the  country  without  endangering  his  life;  and  that 
he  should  return  to  his  native  country,  or  to  Europe,  as  the  most  effectual 
means  of  recovering  his  health."  Judging  it  proper  to  comply  with  this 
advice,  Mr.  Nott  took  his  measures  accordingly;  and  by  the  kind  favor 
of  Providence  has  returned  to  his  country  and  his  friends  in  safety. 

Amid  the  various  difficulties  which  it  has  had  to  encounter,  our  mis 
sion  at  Bombay  has  been  steadily  advancing  towards  its  great  object; 
and  in  its  utmost  extremities  the  voice  of  Providence  has  seemed  to  be 


1816.  REPORT.  131 

distinct:  "Destroy  it  not;  for  a  blessing  is  in  it."     It  is  no  small  satisfac 
tion  to  hear  the  testimony  of  the  worthy  Governor,  whose  unrestrained 
protection  and  favor  our  missionaries  now  enjoy,  that  "he  believes  they 
are  doing  good."     Their  communications  to  us,  indeed,  are  replete  with 
evidence,  that  they  have  entered   upon  their  work   with  deep  and  sound 
reflection,  and  proceeded  with  firm  and  vigorous  purpose,  with  enlarged 
and  enlightened  views,  and  with  very  laudable  industry  and  proficiency. 
"We  have  already,"  they  say,  in  a  letter  of  Sept.  last,  "We  have  already 
told  you  that  we  have  made  so  much  proficiency  in  the  Mahratta  lan 
guage  as  to  be  able  to  commence  our  great  work  of  preaching  the  Gospel 
to  the  heathen.     We  daily  impart  religious  instruction   to  the  people 
around  us,  in  some  form  or  other;  and  this  we  expect  will   be  the  great 
business  of  our  lives  from  day  to  day.     We  have  commenced  the  work 
of  translating  the  Scriptures   into  the  Mahratta  language.     We   both 
employed  some  part  of  our  time  almost  every  day  in  translating.     These 
essays  at  translating  we  consider  at  present  as  very  imperfect;  and  we 
have  no  expectation  that  we  shall   be  able,  in  a  year  or  two,  to  effect  a 
complete   and  correct  version  of  the   Sacred  Volume.     Our  situation, 
however,  affords  many  facilities  for  the  prosecution  of  this  work;  the 
principal  of  which  is,  our  living  in  the  midst  of  the  people  for  whom  the 
translation  is  designed.     We  hand  our  translations  around  in  manuscript, 
and  read  them  to  the  people  in  our  excursions;  and,  in  this  way,  we  are 
enabled  to  detect  the  errors  at  once,  and  ascertain  to  our  perfect  satisfac 
tion  whether  our  version  is  intelligible  and  idiomatical  or  not."     In  their 
subsequent  letter  of  Nov.  29,  they  further  state:  "We  have  translated  a 
Harmony  of  the  Gospels  and  several  tracts,  copies  of  which  are  now  in 
circulation  among  the  heathen;  and  we  have  daily  opportunities  of  observ 
ing  how  far  they  understand  them.     Besides  these.,  Matthew  is  translated 
as  far  as  the  23d  chapter,  as  are  parts  of  the  remaining  chapters,  and  the 
whole  will  be  finished  in  a  few  days.     We  have  also  translated  a  short 
Catechism.     We  do  not  mean  to  say,  that  as  yet  we  have  any  thing  fit 
for  the  press;  but  we  think  we  could  soon  bring  some  small  tracts  to  that 
degree  of  perfection,  which  would  render  it  very  desirable  to  commence 
printing  without  delay." 

In  a  paper  which  they  have  sent  us,  entitled  remarks  on  Eastern 
Translations,  the  brethren  say:  "It  would  seem  to  be  a  self-evident  princi 
ple;  that  no  person  can  translate  correctly  into  any  language  which  he  does 
not  understand  as  well,  or  nearly  as  well,  as  his  mother  tongue;  and  it  seems  to 
be  no  less  evident,  that  no  person  can  understand  a  foreign  language  as  well, 
or  nearly  as  well,  as  his  mother  tongue,  without  residing  at  least  a  num 
ber  of  years  in  the  country,  where  that  language  is  vernacular,  and  con 
versing  habitually  with  all  kinds  of  people  who  speak  the  language." 
From  that  paper  af  large,  and  from  their  other  communications,  relating 
to  translations,  our  missionaries  appear  to  your  Committee  to  possess 
views  of  this  momentous  subject,  in  an  eminent  degree  enlightened, 
correct  and  important,  and  worthy  of  the  confidence  of  this  Board  and  of 
the  Christian  public.  They  have  a  deep  impression,  that  although  a 
translation  of  the  Scriptures  might  be  made  in  a  few  months  to  answer  a 
merely  temporary  purpose;  yet  a  translation  intended  for  permanent  use, 
and  to  convey  to  a  whole  nation  the  entire  Word  of  Life,  correctly,  fully, 
and  intelligibly,  must  be  a  work  of  time,  of  labor,  and  of  care.  Under 


132  REPORT.  1816. 

this  impression  they  have  resolved,  with  submission  to  this  Board,  not  to 
proceed  at  once  to  a  translation  and  publication  of  the  Scriptures  at 
large;  but  to  take  select  portions,  of  primary  importance,  and,  as  soon  as 
conveniently  they  can,  to  put  them  into  circulation  among  the  people. 
This  plan,  as  suggested  in  one  of  the  quotations  already  made  from  their 
letters,  will  afford  the  best  opportunities  and  advantages  for  revision  and 
emendation,  and  for  producing  at  last  a  good  version  of  the  whole  Sacred 
Volume.  At  the  same  time  it  enables  them  to  proceed  with  the  least 
possible  delay,  not  only  in  preaching,  but  in  distributing  also  the  written 
Word;  in  portions  indeed,  but  as  fast  and  in  such  order  and  manner,  as 
may  be  requisite  at  first  for  the  best  effect. 

In  this  plan,  of  which  your  Committee  have  expressed  to  the  missiona 
ries  their  decided  approbation,  considerable  advance  has  been  made. 
One  of  the  Evangelists  entire,  a  Harmony  of  all  the  Evangelists,  and 
other  select  portions  of  the  Scriptures  have  been  translated;  and  some 
of  these  portions,  together  with  a  short  Catechism,  and  some  other  small 
tracts,  are  circulated  in  manuscript  copies  among  the  people.  And  the 
brethren  express  a  strong  desire  of  having  it  in  their  power  to  commence 
printing,  that  copies  may  be  multiplied  with  greater  facility  and  with  less 
expense.  Your  Committee  have  therefore  judged  it  important,  that  the 
printing  press  which  has  been  offered  for  the  service,  by  an  individual  of 
distinguished  liberality,  should  be  held  in  readiness  to  be  sent  out  to 
Bombay  by  the  earliest  opportunity;  and  in  letters  both  to  Bombay  and 
Ceylon  it  has  been  expressed  as  the  particular  desire  of  the  Committee, 
that  our  missionary,  Mr.  Bard  well,  who  before  leaving  this  country  made 
himself  acquainted  with  the  printing  business,  should  as  soon  as  possible 
join  the  brethren  at  Bombay,  and  be  ready  to  take  charge  of  the  printing 
establishment.  A  remittance  also  of  one  thousand  dollars  has  been  for 
warded  for  the  express  purpose  of  promoting  these  translations,  publica 
tions  and  distributions. 

Besides  what  they  have  done  in  acquiring  the  language  of  the  country, 
in  making  translations,  in  distributing  portions  of  the  Scriptures  and 
other  tracts,  and  in  their  great  and  daily  business  of  preaching  to  the 
people  as  they  have  opportunity,  and  conversing  with  them  from  house 
to  house;  our  missionaries  have  been  particularly  and  earnestly  engaged 
for  the  education  of  the  youth  and  children,  many  thousands  of  whom 
they  see  around  them  in  the  most  deplorable  ignorance,  corruption  and 
wretchedness.  Several  miserable  orphans  and  outcasts  they  have  taken 
into  their  own  family  to  "bring  up  in  the  nurture  and  admonition  of  the 
Lord;"  and  they  have  established  a  school,  which,  at  their  last  dates, 
was  in  a  flourishing  state  and  promised  great  utility.  For  the  instruction 
of  European  and  half-cast  children  they  receive  a  compensation  which 
helps  to  lighten,  in  some  degree,  the  expenses  of  the  establishment.  But 
their  great  concern  is  for  the  heathen  children  of  heathen  parents;  and 
for  the  instruction  of  these  no  compensation  is  to  be  expected.  The 
sc'hools  must  be  free,  and  be  supported  chiefly  if  not  wholly,  at  the  ex 
pense  of  the  mission.  It  is  estimated,  indeed,  that  the  total  expense  of 
a  school,  consisting  of  fifty  children,  need  not  exceed  150  dollars  a  year. 
This  is  comparatively  a  light  expense.  But  the  field  is  immensely  wide, 
the  numbers  of  heathen  children  are  vastly  great;  and  it  must  be  the 
ardent  desire  of  Christian  benevolence  to  extend  the  benefits  of  education 


1816.  REPORT.  1'33 

to  as  many  as  possible,  and,  for  that  purpose,  to  enlarge  and  multiply 
schools  to  the  utmost  extent  of  the  means  which  can  be  obtained  for  sup 
porting  them.  Our  missionaries  have  felt,  and  expressed  their  feelings, 
very  strongly  on  this  subject;  have  deeply  lamented  the  restraint  and 
embarrassment  which  they  have  experienced  from  the  scantiness  of  their 
funds;  and  have  pleaded  with  pathetic  earnestness  for  the  supply  of  means, 
more  commensurate  with  the  amplitude  of  their  benevolent  wishes,  and 
the  extent  of  their  well  concerted  plans. 

Your  Committee  have  attended  to  these  representations  with  a  very 
lively  interest;  and  under  the  impression  which  they  made,  have  judged 
it  advisable  to  institute  a  specific  charity  under  the  denomination  of  the 
School  Fund,  or  the  Fund  for  the  Education  of  Heathen  youth  and 
children.  The  monies  of  this  fund,  it  should  be  distinctly  understood, 
are  intended  to  be  applied  to  the  maintenance  of  such  young  objects  of 
Christian  charity  as  may  be  taken  into  our  missionary  families;  to  the 
support  of  free  schools  for  heathen  children  and  youth  in  India,  in  Amer 
ica,  and  in  any  and  every  place  where  our  missions  may  be  established; 
to  the  supply  of  the  schools  and  of  individuals  with  copies  of  the  Scrip 
tures,  and  such  other  books  and  tracts  as  shall  be  deemed  needful;  and, 
also,  if  found  necessary,  to  the  defraying  of  the  expenses  incurred  in 
supporting  and  educating  such  heathen  youths  as  have  been,  or  may 
hereafter  be,  brought  into  our  own  country,  and  may,  with  fair  pros 
pects  of  usefulness,  be  designated  to  be  sent  back  as  preachers  or  teach 
ers  to  their  respective  native  lands.  In  the  success  of  a  fund  so  interest 
ing  in  its  object  to  every  Christian,  every  generous  and  philanthropic 
feeling,  great  confidence  was  entertained  from  the  first.  In  this  con 
fidence  it  was  said  to  the  missionaries,  in  a  letter  written  at  the  time, 
"While  we  would  have  you  take  your  measures  with  wisdom  and  good 
economy,  we  wish  you  not  to  feel  yourselves  bound  hand  and  foot.  Open 
your  hearts  to  enlarged  and  generous  views;  let  your  plans  be  compre 
hensive  and  well  combined;  act  with  system,  with  vigor,  and  with  perse 
verance;  and  depend,  under  Providence/on  us  and  on  the  Christian  pub 
lic  for  the  requisite  pecuniary  means."  The  Committee  have  great  sat 
isfaction  in  being  able  to  state,  that  their  confidence  has  not  deceived 
them;  that  the  Fund  for  the  Education  of  Heathen  Youth  and  Children, 
has  been,  in  different  places  and  extensively,  received  with  peculiar  favor 
and  interest;  and  that  so  far  as  appears  it  only  needs  attention  on  the 
part  of  this  Board  and  its  auxiliaries  to  render  it  a  perennial  and  copious 
source  of  widely  extended  blessings. 

Your  Committee  have  to  regret,  that  from  our  missionaries  at  Bombay 
no  communications  have  been  received  of  a  later  date  than  '29th  Nov. 
last;  and  from  those  who  sailed  the  last  autumn,  destined  for  Ceylon,  only 
the  bare  intelligence  of  their  arrival  at  that  Island  has  been  received. 
It  is  already  well  understood,  that  this  last  company,  though  directed  to 
Ceylon,  were  not  however  restricted  by  their  instructions  to  that  island; 
but  were  left  at  their  well  advised  discretion,  as  to  the  place  or  places, 
where  they  should  fix  their  station  or  stations.  From  the  first  it  was 
thought  highly  desirable,  if  practicable,  that  one  or  more  of  them  should 
join  the  mission  at  Bombay.  This  appeared  to  the  Committee  still  more 
desirable  and  important,  when  they  were  made  acquainted  with  Mr. 
Nott's  determination  to  relinquish  the  mission;  and  in  the  letters  which 


134  REPORT.  1815. 

have  since  been  sent  out,  the  desire  has  been  earnestly  expressed  that 
no  legitimate  means  should  be  neglected  to  procure  access  to  Bombay 
for  at  least  two  of  the  last  five.  They  are  all,  however,  in  the  hands  of 
Him,  who  is  to  have  the  heathen  for  his  inheritance,  and  whose  servants 
they  are:  and  to  this  providential  direction  and  disposal,  with  fervent 
prayers  and  with  cheerful  submission,  they  may  safely  be  confided. 

In  regard  to  the  Pagan  Aborigines  of  our  own  country  the  measures 
of  the  Committee  may  not  have  advanced  so  fast,  as  the  expectations  of 
the  Christian  public,  or  even  of  this  Board.  The  Committee  are  fully 
aware,  that  many  friends  of  missions,  not  only  in  this  country,  but  also 
in  Europe,  have  thought  it  strange,  that  while  so  much  has  been  doing 
for  the  distant  heathen  in  India,  so  little  should  have  been  done  for  the 
not  less  destitute  tribes  on  our  continent,  and  within  our  own  borders. 
The  seeming  neglect  of  these  tribes,  however,  is  not  imputable  to  a  for- 
getfulness  of  them  on  the  part  of  the  Committee,  or  to  a  want  of  an 
earnest  desire  to  do  something  for  their  benefit.  But  the  measures  which 
have  been  concerted  for  this  purpose  have  from  time  to  time  been  frus 
trated,  or  impeded,  by  causes  utterly  beyond  the  power  of  the  Commit 
tee  to  control.  At  present,  however,  measures  are  in  such  a  train  as  to 
animate  the  hope  of  a  gratifying  result.  Our  missionary,  the  Rev.  Cyrus 
Kinsbury,  who  has  devoted  himself  to  the  service,  with  a  view  especially 
to  the  American  Indians,  has  been  directed  to  proceed  as  soon  as  con 
venient  from  the  State  of  Tennessee,  where  he  has  been  employed  under 
a  temporary  commission  from  the  Connecticut  Missionary  Society,  into 
the  Cherokee  country,  for  the  purpose  of  making  the  requisite  prepara 
tions  for  the  establishment  there  of  a  mission,  and  of  mission  schools, 
agreeably  to  the  plan  exhibited  in  our  last  annual  Report.  When  on 
his  way  to  the  westward,  in  pursuance  of  his  instructions  he  communi 
cated  the  design  of  the  Board  to  the  Heads  of  Departments,  at  Wash 
ington,  and  solicited  their  patronage.  They  gave  him  a  favorable  hear 
ing,  expressed  their  decided  approbation  of  the  design,  and  their  dis 
position  to  render  it  every  facility  and  aid  which  the  laws  would  permit; 
and  by  order  of  the  President  of  the  United  States,  the  Secretary  at 
War  stated,  officially,  that  "In  the  first  instance,  the  Agent  (for  Indian 
affairs)  will  be  directed  to  erect  a  comfortable  school  house,  and  another 
for  the  teacher  and  such  as  may  board  with  him,  in  such  part  of  the 
nation  as  will  be  selected  for  the  purpose.  He  will  also  be  directed  to 
furnish  two  ploughs,  six  hoes,  and  as  many  axes,  for  the  purpose  of  in 
troducing  the  art  of  cultivation  among  the  pupils.  Whenever  he  is  in 
formed  that  female  children  are  received,  and  brought  into  the  school, 
and  that  a  female  teacher  has  been  engaged,  capable  of  teaching  them 
to  spin,  weave,  and  sew,  a  loom  and  half  a  dozen  spinning  wheels  and 
as  many  pair  of  cards  will  be  furnished.  He  will  be  directed,  from 
time  to  time,  to  cause  other  school  houses  to  be  erected,  as  they  shall 
become  necessary,  and  as  the  expectation  of  ultimate  success  shall 
justify  the  expenditure.  The  houses  thus  erected,  and  the  implements 
of  husbandry  and  of  the  mechanical  arts  which  shall  be  furnished,  will 
remain  public  property  to  be  occupied  and  employed  for  the  benefit  of 
the  nation.  If  the  persons,  who  are  about  to  engage  in  this  enterprise, 
should  abandon  it,  the  buildings  and  utensils  which  shall  have  been 
furnished,  may  be  occupied  by  any  other  teachers  of  good  moral 


1815.  REPORT.  135 

character.  The  only  return  which  is  expected  by  the  President  is  .an 
annual  report  of  the  state  of  the  school,  its  progress,  and  its  future  pros 
pects." 

At  Washington  Mr.  Kingsbury  had  opportunity  of  conversing  repeat 
edly  with  Col.  Meigs,  Agent  for  the  Cherokees,  and  with  a  Chief  and  two 
other  men  of  the  tribe,  then  at  the  city.  "The  Agent,"  he  says,  "may  be 
relied  upon,  as  a  firm  and  substantial  friend  to  the  object  of  the  mission. 
The  Indians  also  appeared  to  be  pleased  with  the  design,  and  said  it 
would  be  highly  gratifying  to  the  nation;  that  they  had  long  wished  to 
have  schools  established,  and  had  thought  of  devoting  a  part  of  their 
annuity  to  the  object,  but  in  consequence  of  some  embarrassments  had 
felt  themselves  unable." 

Three  young  men  have  offered  themselves,  with  very  good  recom 
mendations,  and  been  accepted  by  the  Committee,  to  be  employed  in 
teaching  the  mission  schools.  One  of  them,  Mr.  Moody  Hall,  is  now 
under  the  direction  of  the  Committee,  in  a  Lancasterian  school,  for  the 
purpose  of  becoming  well  versed  in  that  method  of  instruction,  and  all 
of  them  hold  themselves  in  readiness  for  the  service.  As  soon,  there 
fore,  as  information  shall  be  received  from  Mr.  Kingsbury  of  the  requi 
site  preparations  being  in  sufficient  forwardness,  these  teachers  may  be 
sent  out,  and  the  business  may  be  commenced. 

Although  the  object  of  civilizing  and  christianizing  the  small  and 
scattered  tribes  of  American  Indians  bears  no  comparison  in  magnitude 
with  that  of  evangelizing  the  vastly  numerous  and  crowded  population 
of  the  eastern  world;  yet  it  is  an  object  of  too  great  importance  to  be 
overlooked,  deeply  interesting  in  itself,  and  presenting  very  peculiar 
claims  upon  the  consciences,  the  feelings,  and  the  liberalities  of  Amer 
ican  Christians.  Nor  should  it  be  regarded  as  a  hopeless  enterprise. 
The  history  of  missions  records  few  instances  since  the  apostolic  age, 
perhaps,  indeed  none  in  proportion  to  the  expense  and  exertion  of 
greater  success  in  the  conversion  of  the  heathens,  than  that  which  at 
tended  the  labors  of  Eliot,  the  Mayhews,  and  Brainerd,  among  the 
Indians.  It  is  no  wonder  that  since  their  day  little  has  been  achieved; 
for  little,  very  little,  has  been  attempted.  The  spirit  of  Eliot,  of  the 
Mayhews,  and  of  Brainerd,  has  for  a  long  time  slept.  Never  indeed 
has  the  work  of  civilizing  and  christianizing  our  Indian  tribes  been 
taken  up  on  a  well  concerted  and  extended  plan,  and  conducted  with 
vigor  and  perseverance;  never  has  such  an  experiment  been  made  as  is 
now  contemplated.  To  establish  schools  in  the  different  parts  of  the 
tribe  under  the  missionary  direction  and  superintendence,  for  the  instruc 
tion  of  the  rising  generation  in  common  school  learning,  in  the  useful 
arts  of  life,  and  in  Christianity,  so  as  gradually,  with  the  divine  bless 
ing  to  make  the  whole  tribe  English  in  their  language,  civilized  in  their 
habits,  and  Christian  in  their  religion;  this  is  the  present  plan:  and  the 
more  it  has  been  contemplated,  the  more  it  has  presented  itself  to  the 
minds  of  the  Committee,  as  being  decidedly  preferable  to  any  other 
which  has  been  adopted  or  proposed.  Were  the  Bible  now  translated 
into  all  the  languages  of  the  Indian  tribes,  it  would  be  of  no  more  use 
to  them  than  our  English  Bible;  for  they  could  read  it  no  better.  They 
might  be  taught  to  read  the  Bible  in  the  English  language  with  as  much 
ease,  as  they  could  be  taught  to  read  it  in  their  own;  and  having  learned  to 


136  REPORT.  1816. 

read  the  English  language,  the  sources  of  knowledge  and  means  of  general 
improvement  then  opened  to  them  will  be  incomparably  greater  and  more 
various  than  their  own  language  could  ever  procure  for  them.  Assimi 
lated  in  language,  they  will  more  readily  become  assimilated  in  habits 
and  manners  to  their  white  neighbors;  intercourse  will  be  easy  and  the 
advantages  to  them  incalculable.  The  missionaries,  mean  while, 
will  make  themselves  acquainted  with  the  language  of  the  tribe  and 
preach  to  the  aged  as  well  as  to  the  young;  and  they  will  avail  themselves 
of  the  various  and  precious  advantages,  which  the  education  of  the  chil 
dren  will  afford,  to  gain  the  most  favorable  access  to  the  parents;  and  to 
communicate  the  knowledge  of  salvation,  and  the  blessings  of  civilized 
life  to  the  people  of  every  age. 

Besides  the  missionaries  already  employed,  five  young  men,  three  of 
them  educated  at  the  Theological  Seminary  at  Andover,  and  two  of  them 
at  the  Theological  Seminary  at  Princeton,  and  all  of  them  licensed 
preachers  of  the  Gospel,  now  hold  themselves  devoted  to  the  service, 
to  be  employed  under  the  patronage  of  this  Board,  as  wisdom  shall 
direct. 

It  is  an  interesting  fact  that  several  youths,  brought  from  the  Sand 
wich  Isles,  are  now  resident  in  this  country.  Four  of  them,  having  for 
a  considerable  time  engaged  the  attention  of  liberal  and  active  friends  of 
missions,  have  by  them  been  recommended  to  the  notice  of  your  Com 
mittee;  and  the  Committee  have  thought  it  right  to  receive  them  under 
the  patronage  of  this  Board  to  educate  with  a  view  to  their  being  sent 
back  in  due  time  to  their  own  native  Isles,  qualified  to  be  employed  as 
preachers  or  teachers  to  their  heathen  countrymen.  These  four  youths, 
by  the  grace  of  God  accompanying  the  means  which  have  been  used 
with  them,  have  renounced  their  heathenism,  appear  to  have  been  brought 
to  a  saving  knowledge  of  Christ,  commend  themselves  to  all  around  them 
as  engaged  and  exemplary  Christians,  and  testify  a  deep  concern  for 
their  idolatrous  parents,  and  brethren,  and  people,  and  an  ardent  desire 
to  be  instruments  of  imparting  to  them  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel. 
Their  faculties  are  vigorous;  their  proficiency  in  their  studies  is  good; 
and  the  promise  which  they  give  of  future  usefulness  is  highly  encour 
aging.  Another,  a  son  of  a  king  in  one  of  the  Islands,  has  lately  come 
to  the  knowledge  of  the  Committee,  and  measures  are  taken  to  obtain 
his  discharge  from  the  naval  service  of  the  United  States,  that  he  also 
may  be  placed  under  advantages  similar  to  those  which  his  four  country 
men  enjoy.  Your  Committee  cannot  but  gratefully  recognize  the  hand 
of  God  in  bringing  these  lately  pagan  youths  to  our  shores,  placing  them 
within  the  influence  of  Christian  benevolence,  inclining  their  hearts  to 
the  Gospel,  and  producing  in  them  the  desire  of  making  known  the 
unspeakable  grace  to  their  countrymen.  It  is  an  intimation  which 
deserves  attention,  and  may  lead  to  very  important  events;  and  it  is  sub 
mitted  to  the  wisdom  of  the  Board  to  determine  upon  a  plan  to  be  adopted 
for  the  education,  not  only  of  the  youth  already  under  our  care,  but  of 
such  others  from  heathen  lands,  as  Providence  from  time  to  time  may  offer 
to  our  patronage  and  direction. 

The  Committee  feel  a  great  pleasure  in  acknowledging  the  continued 
and  liberal  benefactions,  which  have  been  received  during  the  year  past 
from  numerous  auxiliary  societies,  and  individuals.  More  than  ten 


1816.  REPORT.  137 

thousand  and  eight  hundred  dollars  have  been  paid  into  the  Treasury, 
within  the  time  just  mentioned,  beside  the  legacy  of  the  late  Mrs.  Norris, 
which  is  now  in  a  productive  state.  The  particulars  of  all  donations  to 
the  Board  have  already  been  published,  and  the  summaries  will  appear 
in  the  Treasurer's  annual  statements.  The  Committee  are  deeply  im 
pressed  with  a  sense  of  their  responsibility,  as  almoners  of  that  bounty 
which  Christian  benevolence  has  placed  at  their  disposal,  to  be  expended 
in  promoting  the  salvation  of  the  heathen  world. 

While  the  smiles  of  divine  Providence  on  this  infant  institution,  and 
the  fruits  of  divine  grace  in  the  contributions  to  our  treasury,  are  to  be 
devoutly  and  thankfully  recognized,  the  impression  cannot  be  too  deep 
upon  this  Board,  nor  upon  the  Christian  public,  that  all  that  has  yet 
been  done  is  only  a  small  beginning  in  a  long  neglected  work  of  im 
mense  extent  and  importance.  Long  has  the  infidel  reproached  Chris 
tianity  on  account  of  the  narrow  limits  within  which  it  has  been  confined. 
The  reproach  belongs  neither  to  our  holy  religion,  nor  to  its  adorable 
Author.  Christianity  is  adapted  in  its  nature,  its  institutions,  its  whole 
design,  to  the  condition  arid  necessities,  to  the  relations  arid  interests, 
temporal  and  eternal,  of  all  mankind:  and  from  the  day  of  our  Lord's 
ascension,  his  momentous  edict  has  been  in  force,  and  binding  upon 
Christians  of  every  age  and  in  every  place.  Go  YE  AND  MAKE  DISCI 
PLES  OF  ALL  NATIONS: — Go  INTO  ALL  THE  WORLD,  AND  PREACH  THE 
GOSPEL  TO  EVERY  CREATURE. — This  command  has  not  been  fulfilled. 
Eighteen  centuries  have  passed  away,  and  three  fourths  of  the  inhabit 
ants  of  the  earth  are  yet  without  the  Gospel !  It  is  a  reproachful,  an 
awful  fact.  For  this  large  portion  of  mankind,  amounting  by  estima 
tion  to  six  hundred  millions,  the  whole  of  Christendom  at  this  day,  after 
the  powerful  excitements  of  the  last  twenty  years,  supplies  only  about 
two  hundred  missionaries: — only  one  preacher  of  the  Go?pel  to  three 
millions  of  souls,  dwelling  in  darkness  and  the  shadow  of  death.  Were 
portions  of  the  unevangelized  people  of  the  world  to  be  assigned  to  the 
several  Protestant  Christian  nations,  according  to  their  numbers  and 
their  means  for  supplying  missionaries,  not  less  doubtless  than  one  hun 
dred  millions  would  fall  to  the  share  of  our  own  nation.  For  these  we 
now  employ  nine  or  ten  missionaries;  not  more  than  one  to  ten  millions 
of  souls!  Is  it  time  then  to  slacken  our  hands, — to  relax  our  exertions, — 
to  caution  those  who  are  corning  forward  with  their  liberalities  lest  they 
do  too  much  for  this  object?  How  then  shall  we  answer  for  that  hun 
dred  millions  of  souls  to  HIM  who,  though  he  was  rich,  yet  for  our 
sakes  became  poor,  and  who  is  calling  upon  us  with  all  the  energy  of 
his  love,  and  all  the  majesty  of  his  authority,  to  impart  the  Gospel  of 
his  salvation  to  them!  The  vast  magnitude  of  the  work  of  promulgating 
the  Gospel  in  every  region  of  the  heathen  world,  and  the  pressing  duty, 
which  lies  with  such  accumulated  weight  upon  Christian  nations,  might 
almost  overwhelm  with  despondency,  instead  of  stimulating  to  exertion. 
But  it  can  be  shown,  with  unanswerable  conclusiveness,  that  the  ener 
gies  of  Christendom,  if  wisely  directed  and  accompanied  with  a  divine 
blessing,  would  be  amply  sufficient  to  send  the  Gospel  into  every  dark 
corner  of  the  earth,  and  supply  a  competent  number  of  faithful  preach 
ers,  within  the  short  period  of  a  quarter  of  a  century.  Let  the  friends 
of  missions  take  courage;  let  them  arise  with  one  heart  and  a  steadfast 
18 


138  REPORT.  N      1816. 

purpose,  and  apply  themselves  to  the  great  enterprise  before  them;  and 
let  each  one  resolve  for  himself,  whatever  others  may  do,  that  he  will 
not  forget  the  heathen,  while  he  has  hands  to  labor,  a  tongue  to  plead, 
or  a  heart  to  pray. 

In  behalf  of  the  Prudential  Committee, 

SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  Clerk. 
Hartford,  Sept.  18,  1816. 


PECUNIARY   ACCOUNTS. 

The  American  Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions  in  account  current  with  Jeremiah 
Evarts,  their  Treasurer,  Dr. 

To  cash  paid  from  Sept.  1,  1815,  to  Aug.  31,  1816;  in  conformity  to  orders  of  the  Board, 

and  of  the  Prudential  Committee,  from  No.  113  to  No.  149,  inclusive,  $15,906  33 

To  losses  by  counterfeit  bills  received  in  donations,  27  50 

To  balance  carried  to  the  credit  of  the  Board  in  new  account,  Sept.  1, 1816,  44,277  69 


Contra  Cr. 

By  balance  brought  to  the  credit  of  the  Board  in  new  account,  Sept.  1,  1815,  as  appears  by 
the  Auditor's  certificate  of  Nov.  21,  1815, 19,38330 

By  cash  received  in  donations,  from  September  1,  1815,  to  August  31,  1816,  in 
clusive}  viz.  as  published  particularly  in  the  Panoplist,        -        ...  $10,858  34 

By  cash  received  as  interest  of  money  and  income 
of  stock,  during  the  year  pastj  viz.  on  account  of  the 
Norris  Legacy, $595  92 

On  account  of  other  funds,          ....  481  39—1,077  31 

By  cash  received  as  a  premium  on  bank  notes,        -  2  78 

By  postage  reimbursed, 1  75 

By  cash  for  sermons  sold, 2  40 6  93 11,942  58 

Oct.  18,  1816.    By  the  avails  of  the  Norris  Legacy  paid  into  the 
Treasury  by  the  Trustees,    -        -        -  _         -        -        -  28,43564 

$60,211  52 


MINUTES 


EIGHTH    ANNUAL    MEETING 


THE  eighth  annual  meeting  of  the  American  Board  of  Commissioners 
for  Foreign  Missions  was  holden  in  Northampton,  (Mass.)  on  the  17th, 
18th,  and  19th  days  of  September,  1817.  Present, 

The  Hon.  JOHN  TREADWELL,  Esq.  LL.  D. 

Rev.  JOSEPH  LYMAN,  D.  D. 

Rev.  SAMUEL  SPRING,  D.  D. 

Rev.  SETH  PAYSON,  D.  D. 

Rev.  JEDIDIAH  MORSE,  D.  D. 

Hon.  JOHN  HOOKER,  Esq. 

Rev.  CALVIN  CHAPIN,  D.  D. 

Rev.  JESSE  APPLETON,  D.  D. 

Rev.  ALEXANDER  PROUDFIT,  D.  D. 

Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  D.  D. 

Rev.  HENRY  DAVIS,  D.  D.  and 

JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq. 

The  meeting  was  opened  with  prayer  by  the  Vice  President,  and,  on 
the  two  following  days,  by  the  Recording  Secretary,  and  the  Rev.  Dr. 
Proudfit. 

The  annual  accounts  of  the  Treasurer  were  exhibited,  as  examined 
and  certified  by  the  Auditor,  and  accepted. 

The  Report  of  the  Prudential  Committee  was  read  and  accepted. 
The  officers  of  the. Board  are  as  follows;  viz. 

The  Hon.  JOHN  TREADWELL,  Esq.  President. 

Rev.  SAMUEL  SPRING,  D.  D.  Vice  President. 
Rev.  Dr.  SPRING.  ") 

Rev.  Dr.  MORSE,  [  Prudential  Committee. 

Rev.  Dr.  WORCESTER,    and  f 

Mr.  EVARTS,  j 

Rev.  Dr.  WORCESTER,  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Rev.  Dr.  CHAPIN,  Recording  Secretary. 

JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq.  Treasurer. 

Mr.  ASHUR  ADAMS,  Auditor. 

Resolved,  That  Dr.  Morse,  present  the  thanks  of  this  Board  to  Chester 
Adams,  Esq.*  for  his  services  as  Auditor  the  last  three  years. 

*  Mr.  Adams  declined  a  re-election. 


140  MINUTES  OF  THE  BOARD.  1817. 

Resolved,  That  the  Trial  Balance  of  the  Treasurer  be  annually  deliv 
ered  to  the  Recording  Secretary,  and  by  him  recorded  in  his  book  of 
records. 

The  Report  of  the  Agents  for  the  Foreign  Mission  School,  as  pre 
pared  by  their  committee,  was  read. 

Philo  Swift,  Esq.,  and  the  Rev.  Timothy  Stone,  both  of  Cornwall  in 
Connecticut,  were  appointed  agents,  in  addition  to  those  who  had  previ 
ously  constituted  the  agency  for  the  Foreign  Mission  School  established 
in  that  town. 

Dr.  Spring,  Mr.  Evarts,  Dr.  Davis,  and  Mr.  Hooker  were  appointed  a 
committee  to  consider,  and  report  on,  the  subject  of  compensation  to  the 
Corresponding  Secretary. 

The  following  report  of  the  committee  last  named  was  read  and  ac 
cepted,  viz. 

It  appearing  to  this  Board,  that  the  duties  and  labors  of  the  Corres 
ponding  Secretary  are  such  as  necessarily  occupy  a  great  part  of  his 
time,  and  are  essential  to  a  successful  accomplishment  of  the  important 
and  benevolent  objects  of  the  Christian  public  in  their  benefactions,  and 
of  the  incorporation  of  this  Board:  Therefore, 

Resolved,  That  measures  be  taken  for  an  effectual  discharge  of  the 
duties  of  the  Corresponding  Secretary;  and  that  his  Honor  Lt.  Gov. 
Phillips,  Hon.  William  Reed,  William  Bartlet,  Esq.,  and  Jeremiah 
Evarts,  Esq.,  be  a  committee  to  devise  means  for  this  purpose;  which 
committee  are  requested  to  report  their  doings  to  the  Prudential  Com 
mittee,  who  are  authorized  to  carry  the  same  into  effect. 

Resolved,  That  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  agents  of  the  Foreign  Mis 
sion  School  to  report,  every  six  months,  a  statement  of  the  pecuniary 
concerns  of  said  school  to  the  Prudential  Committee;  and  it  shall  be  the 
duty  of  the  Principal  Instructor  of  said  school,  every  three  months,  to 
report  to  the  Prudential  Committee  the  state  of  said  school,  and  the 
Prudential  Committee  are  authorized  to  give,  from  time  to  time,  such 
directions  as  they  shall  think  proper. 

At  3  o'clock,  P.  M.  on  the  18th,  attended  public  worship,  when  Dr. 
Appleton  delivered  a  sermon,  by  appointment  of  the  Board,  from  1  Cor. 
i,21. 

Resolved,  To  authorize  the  Prudential  Committee  to  take  such  meas 
ures  as  they  shall  judge  expedient,  relative  to  a  missionary  chapel  and 
school  house  at  Bombay. 

Resolved,  That  the  Board  approve  of  the  doings  of  the  Prudential 
Committee  in  reference  to  the  stations  they  have  selected  to  which  mis 
sionaries  have  been  sent,  and  at  which  schools  have  been  established;  and 
do  also  approve  of  the  extension  of  schools  to  other  Indian  tribes,  as 
stated  in  the  report  of  the  Prudential  Committee,  under  the  patronage, 
or  in  concurrence  with  the  authority  of  the  government  of  the  United 
States. 

Resolved,  That  the  thanks  of  this  Board  be  presented  to  the  Rev.  Dr. 
Appleton  for  his  sermon  delivered  this  day  by  appointment  of  the  Board; 
that  a  copy  be  requested  for  publication;  and  thatDr.  Morse,  Mr.  Evarts, 
and  Dr.  Chapin  be  a  committee  to  accomplish  the  object  of  this  vote. 

The  Rev.  JEREMIAH  DAY,  LL.  D.,  President  of  Yale  College,  was 
unanimously  elected  a  member  of  the  Board. 


1817.  REPORT.  141 

Resolved,  That  the  thanks  of  this  Board  be  presented  to  the  Rev. 
Solomon  Williams,  and  to  those  individuals  and  families  in  this  town, 
\vhosehospitality  has  been  experienced  by  the  members  during  the  session. 

Resolved,  That  Dr.  Lyman  present  the  thanks  of  this  Board  to  Mr. 
Levi  Strong,  and  the  choir  of  singers  under  his  direction,  for  their  very 
acceptable  services  in  the  public  religious  exercises  on  the  18th  instant. 

Resolved,  that  Dr.  Lymau  present  the  thanks  of  this  Board  to  the  Pro 
prietors  of  the  Town  Hall,  for  the  very  convenient  accommodations 
afforded  to  the  members  in  that  room  during  their  session. 

Resolved,  That  the  thanks  of  this  Board  be  presented,  in  such  manner 
as  the  Prudential  Committee  shall  judge  most  suitable,  to  such  associa 
tions  and  individuals,  male  and  female,  as  have  contributed  to  the  benev 
olent  objects  of  the  Board. 

Resolved,  That  the  Prudential  Committee  be  authorized  and  directed 
to  erect  a  monumental  stone,  suitable  to  the  simplicity  of  the  missionary 
character,  and  with  an  appropriate  inscription,  over  the  grave  of  Mrs. 
Harriet  Newell,  at  Port  Louis,  in  the  island  of  Mauritius,  as  a  testimonial 
of  the  affectionate  and  grateful  remembrance  of  her  sacredly  cherished 
by  this  Board. 

Resolved,  That  the  next  annual  meeting  of  the  Board  be  holden  in  the 
Philosophical  Chamber  of  Yale  College,  in  New  Haven,  on  the  Thurs 
day  next  succeeding  the  second  Wednesday  of  September,  1818. 

The  Rev.  Dr.  Spring  stands  first  preacher  for  that  occasion,  and  the 
Rev.  Dr.  Payson  was  appointed  to  preach  in  case  of  his  failure. 

Resolved,  That  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Prudential  Committee  to 
compile  and  publish  a  report,  including  their  report  for  the  last  year;  the 
report  from  the  Committee  of  agency  for  the  Foreign  Mission  School;  a 
statement  of  the  Treasurer's  accounts;  such  a  detail  of  donations  as  may 
be  found  useful;  extracts  from  the  minutes  of  the  present  session;  and 
such  other  information  as  they  shall  judge  expedient. 

The  session  was  closed  with  prayer  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Payson. 

REPORT. 

BRETHREN, — Shall  we  mourn,  or  shall  we  rejoice?  One  of  our  number, 
a  greatly  beloved  and  revered  associate,  rests  from  his  labors,  and  is  gone 
to  receive  his  reward.  His  life  was  a  shining  light  of  increasing  efful 
gence;  his  death  was  the  setting  of  an  autumnal  sun  without  a  cloud. 
This  is  not  the  place  for  ample  eulogy.  It  is  due,  however,  to  the 
memory  of  the  illustrious  dead,  and  especially  to  the  honor  of  the  Eternal 
Spirit,  here  thankfully  to  record,  that  the  lamented  Dr.  Dwight  was  an 
ardent  friend  and  strong  supporter  of  missions.  By  his  distinguished  in 
strumentality  in  enlisting  under  the  banner  of  the  cross  many  young  men, 
destined  for  public  action;  by  his  enlightened  views  and  divine  senti 
ments,  impressed  on  many  more;  by  his  extended  and  powerful  general 
influence;  and  by  his  counsels  and  exertions  in  direct  connection  with 
this  Board,  he  probably  did  not  less  than  any  one  of  his  survivors  in  this 
country  has  done,  towards  the  advancement  of  this  holy  cause.  And  if 
he  now  rests  with  the  apostles  of  the  Savior,  of  all  his  works  on  earth,  it 
delights  him  chiefly  to  remember,  that  he  was  disposed  and  enabled  to  do 
something  for  a  cause  so  beneficent  and  glorious; — so  dear  to  saints  and 


142  REPORT.  1817. 

angels  in  heaven,  and  to  Him,  whose  immeasurable  love  to  it  is  the  con 
tinually  opening  theme  of  their  most  joyous  and  exalted  praises.  Is  our 
late  associate  now  an  associate  with  the  innumerable  company  before  the 
throne  of  God  and  the  Lamb?  The  thought  will  impart  a  sacred  eleva 
tion  to  our  views,  and  a  celestial  animation  to  our  work.  If  we  be  faith 
ful,  we  too  shall  rest  in  due  time,  and  we  too  shall  enter  into  the  joy  of 
our  Lord. 

The  Report  now  to  be  submitted  will  be  disposed  under  several  dis 
tinct  heads. 

BOMBAY. — Our  mission  at  Bombay  claims  our  first  attention.  By  our 
last  Report  the  history  of  this  mission  was  brought  down  to  the  close  of 
November,  1815.  It  is  now  to  be  continued  to  the  20th  of  last  May, 
within  four  months  of  the  present  time. 

The  period,  thus  defined,  affords  many  reasons  for  gratulation  and 
thankfulness,  as  a  period  of  tranquillity  and  prosperity.  Not  only  have 
the  brethren  Hall  and  Newell  been  quieted  in  their  station,  but  the  mis 
sion  has  received  accessions  of  strength,  and  of  means  for  extending  its 
operations. 

"This  day,"  say  the  Brethren,  in  their  Journal,  November  1,  1816: — 
"This  day  has  been  made  joyful  to  us  by  the  arrival  of  our  long  expected 
brother  Bard  well,  his  wife,  and  child.  They  arrived  safe,  after  a  voyage 
of  twenty-seven  days  from  Colombo.  It  was  a  joyful  meeting  to  us  all; 
and  we  heartily  united  in  thanksgiving  and  praise  to  that  all-directing 
Providence,  that  has  so  mercifully  preserved  and  guided  us  in  all  our 
ways,  and  crowned  us  with  goodness  and  loving  kindness.  Now  our 
waiting  eyes  are  unto  the  Lord,  that  he  would  grant  our  brother  a  quiet 
settlement  here;  that  thus  our  hands  may  be  strengthened,  and  our  hearts 
encouraged."  The  Lord  was  gracious  to  their  desires.  Mr.  Bardwell, 
accompanied  with  the  other  brethren,  was  soon  presented,  with  a  letter 
of  introduction  from  governor  Brownrigg  of  Ceylon,  to  the  governor  of 
Bombay.  His  excellency  received  them,  they  say,  "with  his  accustomed 
kindness,  and  expressed  to  Mr.  Bardwell  his  readiness  to  shew  them  any 
favor."  Accordingly  Mr.  Bardwell  took  up  his  residence  in  connection 
with  the  mission,  and  entered  upon  its  labors  with  alacrity,  and  without 
apprehension  of  difficulty  as  to  his  remaining  there. 

In  a  few  weeks  afterwards,  Mr.  Hall  was  married  to  an  English  lady, 
who  had  resided  in  the  country  so  long  as  to  have  acquired  a  knowl 
edge  of  the  Hindoostanee,  one  of  the  principal  languages  spoken  at 
Bombay,  and  who  is  considered  by  the  brethren  as  no  small  acquisition 
to  the  mission. 

Referring  to  these  accessions  the  Brethren  say,  "The  mission  family 
at  Bombay  is  now  very  different  from  what  it  was  when  brethren  Hall 
and  Newell  were  laboring  in  comparative  solitude,  uncertain  whether  any 
more  would  ever  be  added  to  their  number.  Our  prospects  are  pleasing. 
We  have  great  encouragement  to  go  forward  with  increasing  zeal,  putting 
our  trust  for  the  time  to  come  in  the  same  infinitely  wise,  kind,  and  gra 
cious  God,  who  has  hitherto  blessed  us." 

In  another  communication,  they  say,  "Agreeably  to  the  recommenda 
tion  of  the  Prudential  Committee,  we  have  revised  the  plan  of  polity 
which  was  forwarded  to  you  in  December,  1814,  and  have,  with  perfect 


1817.  REPORT.  143 

unanimity,  adopted  the  Rules  and  Regulations,  a  copy  of  which  is  en 
closed."  The  Rules  and  Regulations  thus  adopted  are  in  perfect  agree 
ment  with  the  principles  established  by  this  Board;  and  are  in  the  opinion 
of  your  Committee  very  judicious. 

Thus  happily  circumstanced,  the  missionaries  appear  to  have  applied 
themselves  with  great  assiduity  to  the  several  branches  of  their  work; 
which  are  preaching,  translating,  printing,  and  establishing  and  superin 
tending  schools. 

It  is  about  two  years  since  the  Brethren  Hall  and  Newell  have  been 
able  to  preach,  with  a  good  degree  of  facility,  in  the  language  of  the 
country.  "We  cannot,"  they  say,  "expect  immediately  a  regular  assem 
bly,  at  a  stated  place  of  worship.  But  while  we  indulge  the  pleasing 
hope  of  hereafter  seeing  such  a  congregation,  we  must,  in  the  mean  time, 
instruct  the  people  in  such  dispersed  and  varied  situations  as  we  find 
them  in." — "It  is  an  unspeakable  joy  to  us,  that  we  can  do  something  for 
the  religious  instruction  of  the  heathen  every  day;  and  that  we  can  as 
sure  our  patrons  and  Christian  friends  at  home,  that  through  their  pious 
liberality  hundreds  of  their  unenlightened  fellow-creatures,  are  every 
week  warned  to  flee  from  the  wrath  to  come,  and  to  lay  hold  on  that 
eternal  life  which  is  in  Christ  Jesus  our  Lord."  "It  is  probable  that  the 
manner  of  our  preaching  will  continue  to  be  much  the  same.  We  shall 
daily  go  among  the  people  and  preach  to  five,  fifty,  a  hundred,  or  to 
more,  as  we  may  find  opportunity;  and  these  we  shall  meet  in  the  streets 
and  market  places,  in  private  houses  and  in  their  temples,  at  their  wed 
dings,  festivals,  and  pilgrimages,  as  the  case  may  be.  Thus  we  expect 
to  labor,  in  the  hope  that  by  and  by,  through  the  divine  blessing,  a  con 
gregation  will  be  collected  and  a  church  planted." 

In  private  journals,  which  they  have  sent  to  us,  and  some  of  which 
have  been  published,  the  brethren  have  given  us  some  specimens  of  the 
manner  in  which  they  employ  and  acquit  themselves  in  this  part  of  their 
work:  from  which  it  appears,  that  they  have  little  difficulty  at  any  time  in 
finding  people  collected,  or  in  collecting  them  in  considerable  numbers; 
that  favorable  opportunities  are  frequently  afforded  them  for  exposing  the 
absurdities  and  enormities  of  heathenism,  and  for  displaying,  in  contrast 
with  them,  the  excellencies  of  Christianity;  and  that  they  are  often  heard 
with  attention,  and  not  without  manifest  impression. 

Besides  thus  preaching  to  the  heathen,  wherever  and  whenever  they 
can  find  an  opportunity,  the  brethren  have  certain  regular  exercises, 
statedly  attended.  On  Sabbath  morning  they  hold  a  meeting  for  poor 
Europeans  and  half-casts,  whose  situation  renders  them  objects  of  partic 
ular  compassion,  and  to  whom  they  impart  religious  instruction.  Regu 
larly  also  on  the  Sabbath,  they  have  public  worship  in  English  at  their 
own  house;  and  once  a  month  they  celebrate  the  Lord's  supper. 

On  the  last  day  of  the  year  1815,  they  commenced  the  public  reading 
of  the  Scriptures  at  one  of  their  school-rooms.  The  reading  is  in  the 
language  of  the  country;  and  upon  the  portions  read  expository  remarks 
are  made.  At  these  exercises,  which  appear  to  have  been  holden  twice 
a  week,  from  the  time  of  their  commencement,  a  considerable  number  of 
Pagans  and  some  Jews  have  attended.  "We  have  as  yet,"  they  say, 
"found  quite  as  much  encouragement  as  we  anticipated,  in  our  first  at 
tempt  of  this  kind.  We  hope,  ere  long,  to  have  several  such  meetings 
in  different  parts  of  this  great  city  and  its  suburbs." 


144  REPORT.  1817. 

Although,  for  reasons  now  obvious,  the  missionaries  must  continue  to 
go  out  into  "the  streets  and  lanes  of  the  city,"  and  preach  as  they  can 
find  opportunity;  yet  they  are  strongly  impressed  with  the  importance  of 
having  soon  a  house  for  public  worship,  where  people  of  all  classes,  dis 
posed  to  attend  may  be  accommodated.  "It  will  be  needless,"  they 
say,  "to  adduce  arguments  to  evince  the  expediency  of  a  measure,  so 
universally  sanctioned  and  enforced,  by  the  example  of  all  Christian  mis 
sionaries."  In  the  opinion  of  your  Committee,  also,  the  measure  is  one 
which  claims  very  particular  attention;  and  the  confident  hope  is  enter 
tained,  that  an  appeal  to  the  Christian  public  for  the  purpose  of  procur 
ing  the  means  of  building  a  missionary  chapel,  or  house  of  worship,  for 
the  benefit  of  the  heathen  in  Bombay,  will  be  promptly  and  liberally 
answered. 

Another  important  part  of  the  work  of  our  missionaries  is  that  of 
Translating.  Their  general  views,  on  the  subject  of  translations,  have 
been  communicated  to  this  Board;  and  are  such,  your  Committee  be 
lieve,  as  will  meet  the  approbation  of  every  considerate  and  judicious 
mind.  Deeply  impressed  as  they  are  with  the  importance  of  a  good 
translation  of  the  Scriptures  entire  into  a  language  spoken  by  millions  of 
people,  and  at  the  same  time  of  the  difficulty  of  making  such  a  transla 
tion,  they  are  yet  sanguine  in  the  hope,  that  they  shall  be  enabled  in  due 
time  to  accomplish  the  design.  "We  are  in  the  midst,"  they  say,  "of 
the  people  who  speak  this  language;  we  daily  read  their  books  in  it,  we 
hear  them  speak  it,  and  we  daily  preach  in  it  to  the  people.  The  study 
and  use  of  this  one  language  is  to  be  the  main  business  of  every  day  of 
our  lives."  A  portion  of  their  time  every  day  is  devoted  to  the  study  of 
the  Scriptures  in  the  original  languages  of  those  holy  writings.  For  rea 
sons  such  as  these,  they  very  reasonably  think  themselves  entitled  to  a 
degree  of  confidence  in  their  qualifications  for  making  a  good  translation; 
und  they  appear  to  give  themselves  to  this  part  of  their  work  with  sacred 
zeal,  and  with  intense  application.  Besides  a  harmony  of  the  Gospels, 
they  have  translated  the  Evangelists  separately,  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles, 
several  of  the  Epistles,  and  select  portions  of  other  parts  of  the  Bible. 

Another  part  of  their  work  is  Printing.  Their  ardent  desire  of  being 
able  to  commence  this  business  was  communicated  to  the  Board  in  the 
Report  of  the  last  year,  This  desire,  to  their  great  joy,  has  been  ful 
filled.  The  printing  press,  for  which  this  Board  is  indebted  to  the  gen 
erosity  of  a  gentleman  in  Boston,  and  which,  with  its  appurtenances,  was 
sent  out  to  Calcutta,  in  December  last,  had  not,  of  course,  at  our  latest 
dates,  been  received  at  Bombay.  But  before  they  had  intelligence,  that 
a  press  would  be  sent  to  them  from  this  country,  they  had  made  arrange 
ments  for  procuring  one  from  Calcutta;  and  by  the  kind  aid  of  the  Rev. 
Mr.  Thomason,  to  whom  they  and  this  Board  are  indebted  for  many 
favors,  they  received  from  thence,  on  the  9th  of  December,  a  press,  with 
a  fount  of  Nagree  types.  As  Mr.  Bard  well,  who  is  acquainted  with  the 
printing  business,  had  arrived  at  Bombay  about  a  month  before,  no  time 
was  lost  in  preparing  to  get  the  press  into  operation.  Various  difficulties 
however  occurred.  In  their  fount  several  types  were  wanting;  others 
were  untrimmed;  and  considerable  alteration  was  found  necessary  in 
their  press.  But  their  resolute  perseverance  prevailed;  and  on  the  10th 
•of  March,  they  finished  the  printing  of  fifteen  hundred  copies  of  a  Scrip- 


1817.  REPORT.  145 

ture  tract  of  eight  octavo  pages.  "Almost  the  whole  of  the  work,"  they 
say,  "from  beginning  to  end,  has  been  done  with  our  own  hands.  Diffi 
culties  of  various  kinds,  and  such  as  could  not  well  be  described,  have 
occurred;  but  we  have  been  able  so  far  to  overcome  them,  that  this  first 
production  of  our  press  has  greatly  encouraged  us.  We  now  commend 
this  little  portion  of  God's  word  to  his  gracious  disposal,  beseeching  him 
to  make  it  the  means  of  salvation  to  many  of  the  heathen,  and  imploring 
his  kind  direction  and  assistance  in  all  our  future  attempts  to  serve  him 
in  the  work  of  this  mission." 

In  another  communication,  they  add,  "After  so  many  discouragements 
as  our  mission  has  experienced,  you  will,  we  doubt  not,  rejoice  with  us 
in  our  being  enabled  at  length,  through  divine  goodness,  to  commence 
the  delightful  work  of  printing  the  word  of  God  in  the  language  of  a  nu 
merous  heathen  people.  We  expect  to  put  the  Gospel  of  Matthew  to  the 
press  in  a  few  days,  but  shall  not  probably  have  it  ready  for  distribution 
under  three  months. 

In  connection  with  their  printing  the  brethren  say,  "We  deem  it  of 
great  importance  that  the  paper  should  be  of  a  good  quality.  There  is 
a  plenty  of  country  paper,  which  we  might  get  cheap,  and  thus  we  might 
make  the  things  that  we  print  cheap.  But  we  think  that  already,  time 
and  money  enough  have  been  worse  than  thrown  away  by  printing  the 
Scriptures  on  paper  so  bad  as  to  render  the  impression  in  many  places 
quite  illegible,  and  of  course  useless.  The  ignorance  and  the  indolence 
of  the  heathen,  their  indifference  to  all  religions  but  their  own,  their  be 
ing  unaccustomed  to  reading,  especially  a  printed  character,  the  hostility 
of  all  their  own  moral  sentiments  and  feelings,  to  the  religion  of  the  gos 
pel,  and  the  constant  allusion  in  the  latter  to  the  things  of  which  they 
are  entirely  ignorant,  and  the  great  and  unavoidable  difficulties  in  the 
way  of  their  reading  and  understanding  the  Scriptures  when  put  into 
their  hands:  if  to  all  this  be  added  a  vexatious  difficulty  in  reading, 
arising  from  the  badness  of  paper  and  printing,  what  can  be  expected?" 

The  representation  given  by  the  missionaries,  in  reference  to  the  qual 
ity  of  the  paper  to  be  used  in  the  printing  of  the  Scriptures,  is  sufficient 
to  shew  the  reasonableness  of  their  request,  that  paper  may  be  sent  to 
them  from  this  country,  or  ordered  from  England.  Accordingly,  your 
Committee  have  made  arrangements  for  sending  out  a  hundred  reams. 

Conformably  also  to  opinions  expressed  by  the  brethren  at  Bombay, 
our  missionary,  Mr.  Graves,  under  the  direction  of  the  Committee,  has 
been  making  himself  acquainted  with  the  business  of  founding  types, 
and  Mr.  Nichols  with  that  of  binding  books.  And  as  there  is  much  dif 
ficulty  in  procuring  good  workmen  at  Bombay,  it  will  probably  be  judged 
expedient  to  send  out  ere  long,  some  suitable  persons  to  be  employed  in 
different  branches  of  business,  connected  with  the  printing  establish 
ment,  that  the  missionaries  may  not  be  too  much  occupied  with  manual 
labor. 

The  total  expense  of  the  printing  establishment,  when  gotten  into 
operation  amounted  to  about  $1,000.  The  press  sent  out  to  Calcutta, 
if  not  wanted  at  Bombay,  will  be  sent  to  the  brethren  in  Ceylon. 

Another,  and  a  most  important  part  of 'the  work  of  our  missionaries  is 
the  care  of  Schools.     Their  views,  and  the  views  of  your  Committee  on 
this  subject  at  large,  were  submitted,  and  approved  at  our  last  anniver- 
19 


146  REPORT.  1817. 

sary.  The  brethren  at  Bombay  have  under  their  care  an  English  school, 
consisting  of  about  forty  pupils.  This  since  the  accession  of  females  to 
the  mission  they  hope  to  enlarge,  upon  the  plan  similar  to  the  mission 
school  at  Serampore,  and  in  such  a  manner  as  will  render  it  a  source  of 
emolument  to  the  general  establishment.  But  their  hearts  are  much 
more  ardently  engaged  in  free  schools  for  the  instruction  of  the  native 
youth  and  children  in  their  own  language.  Of  these,  they  had,  at  their 
last  dates,  three  for  heathen  and  one  for  Jewish  children;  containing  in 
all  about  three  hundred  pupils.  The  teachers  of  the  schools  for  heathen 
children  are  natives;  but  are  employed  by  the  missionaries;  and  under 
their  direction.  In  the  first  school  the  teacher,  for  some  time,  made  it  a 
part  of  his  care  to  instruct  his  pupils  in  the  rites  of  idolatry;  but  the  mis 
sionaries  interposed,  and  this  part  of  his  instructions  was  discontinued. 
As  the  schools  are  of  recent  date,  it  is  not  yet  time  to  hear  much  of  the 
progress  of  the  pupils  in  learning;  but  the  representations  of  the  breth 
ren  are  encouraging. 

In  one  of  their  last  communications  they  say,  "Our  press,  we  hope, 
will  soon  enable  us  to  introduce  improvements  into  the  native  schools. 
Hitherto  they  have  not  been  supplied  with  books,  except  a  few  lessons 
prepared  for  them  in  manuscript.  The  tract,  which  we  have  just  print 
ed,  has  already  been  introduced  into  the  schools,  and  it  is  pleasing  to 
hear  the  name  of  Jehovah  pronounced,  without  scruple,  or  fear,  by  hun 
dreds  of  pagan  children.  We  would  not  convey  the  idea,  that  the  chil 
dren  have  abandoned  their  own  religion.  Far  from  it.  They  still  carry 
upon  their  foreheads  the  marks  of  idolatry,  and  are  taught  by  their  pa 
rents  to  worship  the  gods  of  the  heathen.  Still  we  think  there  is  abun 
dant  encouragement  for  endeavoring  to  imbue  their  tender  minds  with 
the  principles  of  a  purer  religion.  The  seed  thus  sown,  though  it  should 
lie  buried,  and  apparently  fruitless  for  a  time,  may  yet  spring  up  at 
some  future  period,  and  bring  forth  an  abundant  harvest.  A  knowledge 
of  the  Holy  Scriptures  must  necessarily  precede  the  general  prevalence 
of  religion  among  the  people;  and  the  establishment  of  schools,  in  which 
the  Scriptures  are  used  as  a  school  book,  seems  to  be  one  of  the  most 
promising  methods  of  disseminating  a  knowledge  of  the  Bible.  In  this 
point  of  view  we  consider  the  native  schools  as  a  very  important  part  of 
our  missionary  establishment.  We  shall  carry  our  plans  of  education 
to  the  full  extent  of  our  means.  We  rejoice  to  hear  by  your  last  letter, 
that  we  may  expect  shortly  to  receive  remittances  for  this  object.  The 
school  department  is  now  considerably  in  arrears.  Had  our  funds  been 
sufficient,  we  should  before  this  time  have  increased  the  number  of 
schools.  We  wish  also,  as  soon  as  possible,  to  erect  one  or  more  build 
ings,  which  may  answer  the  double  purpose  of  school  houses  and  places 
of  public  religious  instruction  for  the  heathen.  This  we  think  may  be 
done  at  a  moderate  expense. 

It  has  before  been  mentioned,  that  at  the  stated  meetings  for  the  pub 
lic  reading  and  exposition  of  the  Scriptures,  several  Jews  have  attended. 
It  is  gratifying  to  state  here,  that  in  one  of  the  Free  Schools  for  heathen 
children,  there  had  been  some  time  more  than  twenty  Jewish  children; 
and  that  there  should  be  a  school  principally  for  Jewish  children,  the 
brethren  more  than  a  year  ago,  considered  as  being,  for  several  reasons, 
very  desirable.  "The  Jews  themselves,"  they  then  wrote,  "have  solicited 


1817.  REPORT.  147 

it.  They  are  very  poor,  and  but  few  of  their  children  are  at  present 
taught  to  read  and  write.  In  such  a  school  the  boys  could  be  taught 
without  any  scruple  in  the  Scriptures  of  the  Old  Testament,  at  least. 
A  number  of  heathen  boys  would  belong  to  the  school,  who  of  course 
would  be  instructed  free  from  idolatry,  in  the  knowledge  of  the  true 
God.  It  would  also  lead  to  such  an  intercourse  with  the  Jews,  as  would 
be  favorable  to  their  instruction  in  the  knowledge  of  Christ."  Under 
these  impressions,  they  resolved  on  establishing  such  a  school,  as  soon 
as  they  could  engage  a  suitable  teacher.  In  the  course  of  the  last  spring, 
a  Jew  of  considerable  attainments,  and  well  acquainted  with  the  lan 
guage  of  the  country,  offered  himself  for  the  service.  Accordingly  the 
school  was  instituted.  It  consisted  in  May,  soon  after  its  establish 
ment,  of  about  forty  Jewish  pupils,  who  are  instructed  to  read  and 
write  both  Hebrew  and  Mahratta.  "We  think  this,"  say  the  brethren, 
"an  interesting  school,  and  cannot  but  hope,  that  it  will  be  the  means 
of  doing  something  towards  bringing  these  ignorant,  wandering  Israel 
ites  to  the  fold  of  Christ."  In  this  opinion,  and  this  hope,  all  Christians 
will  deeply  participate. 

Your  Committee  are  persuaded,  .that  it  will  be  the  delight  of  this 
Board  and  of  the  Christian  public,  to  gratify,  to  the  greatest  possible 
extent,  the  benevolent  desires  of  the  missionaries  in  regard  to  the  es 
tablishment  of  schools.  Twelve  hundred  dollars  for  this  object  was  sent 
out  for  Bombay  about  eight  months  ago,  another  remittance  of  a  thou 
sand  dollars  was  sent  about  three  months  ago,  and  large  remittances  will 
be  forwarded  for  the  same  object  by  the  missionaries  now  soon  to  depart. 
An  important  consideration,  in  reference  to  this  branch  of  beneficent 
exertion,  is,  that  there  is  no  limitation  to  the  field  now  opened  for  the 
moral  culture  of  children.  All  the  charitable  feelings  of  the  pious  and 
liberal  can  here  find  ample  scope  for  exercise.  It  is  to  be  observed, 
however,  that  some  care  is  necessary,  lest  a  peculiarly  pleasing  and 
popular  kind  of  charity  should  so  engross  the  feelings  of  the  liberal,  for 
a  short  season,  as  to  leave  other  equally  important  objects  unprovided 
for.  These  schools  are  a  delightful  and  promising  branch  of  Christian 
charity,  but  unless  missionaries  are  supported,  schools  cannot  be  properly 
superintended. 

Amid  their  numerous  and  urgent  labors  and  cares,  the  brethren  at 
Bombay  have  looked  abroad  upon  the  heathen  world  extensively,  with 
most  expanded  feelings  and  views.  They  have  collected  and  communi 
cated  much  information,  important  particularly  in  missionary  respects, 
concerning  the  different  parts  of  India,  Persia,  Arabia,  Syria,  Palestine, 
and  Egypt;  in  all  which  countries  they  believe  that  missionary  stations 
might  be  established  with  fair  prospects  of  success.  They  have  proposed 
various  plans,  evidently  the  result  of  deep  and  enlightened  reflection, 
for  the  advancement  of  the  general  cause.  And  from  the  shores  of 
India,  their  voice  has  been  heard  in  this  country  and  in  Europe,  calling 
upon  all  Christians  to  engage  in  the  heavenly  design  of  imparting  the 
blessings  of  the  Gospel  to  the  heathen.  The  liberal  deviseth  liberal 
things,  and  by  liberal  things  shall  he  stand. 

CEYLON.  At  our  last  anniversary,  we  had  only  the  bare  intelligence 
of  the  arrival  of  the  missionaries,  sent  out  two  years  ago  by  the  Dryad, 


148  REPORT.  1817. 

at  Colombo  in  Ceylon.  Your  Committee  have  now  the  happiness  to  re 
port  someTparticulars  of  a  highly  gratifying  nature. 

After  a  passage,  during  the  whole  of  which  they  had  only  gratefully 
to  acknowledge  and  to  record  the  tender  mercies  of  God,  they  arrived  at 
Colombo  on  22d  of  March,  of  the  last  year.  They  were  welcomed  upon 
the  shore  most  affectionately  by  the  Rev.  Messrs.  Chater  and  Norton, 
English  missionaries  then  at  the  place;  and  were  received  by  the  officers 
of  the  government  with  marked  attention  and  kindness.  On  the  next 
morning,  a  sermon  was  preached  on  board  the  Dryad,  by  Mr.  Poor,  in 
which  the  signal  mercies  experienced  during  the  passage  were  devoutly 
recounted,  and  a  very  affectionate  leave  was  taken  of  the  officers  and 
company  of  the  vessel,  to  whom,  and  particularly  to  Capt.  Buffington,  the 
master,  and  Capt.  Titcomb,  the  supercargo,  very  grateful  acknowledg 
ments  were  made. 

The  dispositions  of  the  Governor  of  Ceylon  will  appear  in  a  letter, 
addressed  by  him  to  the  Corresponding  Secretary.  It  bears  date, 
"King's  House,  Colombo,  June  13th,  1816,"  and  in  terms  as  follows: 

"Sir," — Your  letter  communicating  the  thanks  of  the  American  Board 
of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  in  consequence  of  my  reception 
of  the  Rev.  Samuel  Newell,  and  recommending  five  other  missionaries 
to  my  notice,  was  lately  delivered  to  me  by  those  gentlemen  upon  their 
arrival  at  this  place. 

"To  protect  and  encourage  as  far  as  lies  in  my  power  those  who  de 
vote  themselves  to  the  propagation  of  Christianity,  is  so  grateful  a  part  of 
my|duty,  that  I  cannot  lay  claim  to  any  merit  for  a  service  to  which  I 
am  prompted  by  my  own  inclination.  Yet  I  confess  that  the  mark  of 
approbation  from  the  Commissioners  announced  in  your  letter,  has  given 
me  great  pleasure;  and  I  beg  you  will  convey  to  the  gentlemen,  who 
compose  that  Board,  my  sincere  acknowledgments  of  their  kind  and 
flattering  attention. 

"When  Mr.  Newell  was  in  this  Island  I  was  a  good  deal  embarrassed 
by  the  relative  state  of  our  countries,  then  unfortunately  at  war.  The 
peace  which  has  been  since  restored,  will  I  hope  long  remain,  and  re 
move  every  obstacle  from  the  way  of  those  who  come  so  far  to  preach 
the  Gospel  of  peace. 

"I  have  read  with  much  satisfaction  the  judicious  instructions  of  your 
Board,  wherein  religious  zeal  is  tempered  with  sound  discretion.  If 
your  missionaries  conduct  themselves  according  to  the  course  that  is 
there  so  distinctly  marked  out,  their  success  will  not  be  doubtful.  They 
have  just  received  my  permission  to  establish  themselves  in  Jaffna,  the 
northern  province  of  this  island,  where  in  their  opinion  the  fairest  field 
is  open  to  their  labors;  and  I  beg  you  will  assure  the  Commissioners  of 
my  strong  desire  to  do  every  thing  to  promote  their  Christian  views,  in 
all  that  is  consistent  with  the  safety  and  tranquillity  of  his  Majesty's 
colony  at  Ceylon." 

Similar  dispositions  towards  the  missionaries,  and  the  great  object  of 
their  mission,  were,  on  various  occasions,  testified  by  other  principal 
officers  of  the  government.  In  the  fourth  annual  report  of  the  Colombo 
Auxiliary  Bible  Society,  made  after  the  missionaries  had  been  several 
months  in  the  place,  distinct  mention  is  made  of  them;  and  the  Report 
adds,  "They  certainly  appear  to  be  men  of  superior  attainments  and  in- 


1817.  REPORT.  149 

formation,  and  in  every  respect  well  qualified   for  the  benevolent  office, 
which  they  have  undertaken." 

These  testimonials  must  be  highly  gratifying  to  this  Board  and  to  all 
the  friends  of  missions;  and  agreeable  to  the  dispositions  expressed  in 
them,  has  been  the  uniform  treatment  received  by  our  missionaries,  from 
the  principal  men,  not  only  at  Colombo,  but  in  other  parts  of  the  Island. 

The  brethren  sojourned  at  Colombo  about  six  months.  A  consider 
able  time  was  requisite,  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining,  by  correspondence 
with  the  brethren  at  Bombay  and  other  missionaries  in  different  parts  of 
India,  such  information,  as  would  enable  them  to  determine,  agreeably 
to  their  instructions,  on  the  stations  best  for  them  to  occupy;  and  after 
they  had  come  to  the  determination,  it  was  several  weeks  before  the 
monsoon  would  allow  of  their  departure  to  the  places  of  their  destina 
tion.  During  their  stay,  however,  they  were  neither  idle,  nor  uselessly 
occupied.  Soon  after  their  arrival,  at  the  instance  of  the  Hon.  and  Rev. 
T.  J.  Twistleton,  Chief  Secretary  to  the  government,  they  took  charge 
of  the  instruction  of  several  young  natives,  designed  for  the  Christian 
ministry;  and  as  soon  also,  as  conveniently  they  could,  they  opened  an 
English  school.  In  the  forementioned  Report  of  the  Ceylon  Bible  So 
ciety,  made  about  a  year  ago,  notice  is  taken  of  the  particulars  now 
stated  in  the  following  terms:  "In  the  beginning  of  last  May,  eleven 
young  Cingalese,  of  the  Vellale  cast,  and  four  Malabars,  were  placed 
under  the  tuition  of  the  American  missionaries,  for  the  purpose  of  being 
instructed  in  the  principles  of  theology  and  the  doctrines  of  the  Chris 
tian  religion,  as  they  are  most  of  them  intended  for  the  profession  of  the 
church.  They  are  from  14  to  24  years  of  age,  and  were  all  brought  up 
under  Mr.  Armour,  at  the  Seminary,  where  they  learnt  to  read  and 
write  the  English  language. 

"They  receive  also  from  one  of  the  American  missionaries  regular  les 
sons  in  geography,  a  science  which  is  utterly  unknown  to  the  natives, 
and  deserves  a  particular  attention  in  the  plan  of  their  education,  as  it 
is  certainly  well  calculated  to  enlarge  their  minds,  and  remove  many 
of  the  prejudices,  under  which  they  labor.  These  young  men  were 
placed  by  the  Hon.  and  Rev.  T.  J.  Twisleton  under  the  American 
missionaries,  who  gave  them  daily  instruction  without  any  pay  or 
remuneration. 

"The  American  missionaries  have  besides,  a  school  consisting  of  26 
European  children  of  both  sexes;  for  they  are  in  this  department  assisted 
by  their  wives,  who  are  well  qualified  for  the  superintendence  of  female 
education."  With  these  statements  the  accounts  of  the  missionaries 
themselves  perfectly  accord. 

Besides  the  attention  given  by  them  to  the  youths  and  children  under 
their  care,  they  afforded  assistance  to  the  English  missionaries  at  Colombo, 
and  in  the  vicinity,  by  preaching  on  the  Sabbath  and  other  days,  from 
three  to  six  sermons  a  week.  It  is  gratifying  to  notice  the  harmony 
and  brotherly  affection  which  subsisted  there  between  missionaries 
not  only  of  different  nations,  but  also  of  different  religious  denomina 
tions.  Congregationalists,  Episcopalians,  Methodists,  and  Baptists  were 
all  in  mutual  fellowship;  and  on  the  day  of  communion  at  the  Lord's 
table,  in  the  chapel  of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Chater,  a  Baptist  missionary 
from  England,  the  infant  child  of  our  missionary,  Mr.  Meigs,  was 
baptized. 


160  REPORT.  1817. 

"We  have  the  satisfaction,"  say  the  brethren  in  a  joint  communica 
tion,  "We  have  the  satisfaction  to  believe  that  the  time  we  spent  at 
Colombo  was  not  lost  to  the  missionary  cause.  By  our  preaching  in 
English,  the  missionaries  there  were  enabled  to  devote  more  attention  to 
that  part  of  their  work,  which  relates  to  the  natives.  By  imparting  in 
struction  to  those,  of  whom  our  native  school  was  composed,  we  used  the 
most  appropriate  means,  for  promoting  the  object  of  our  mission.  By 
bur  European  school,  we  did  something  toward  defraying  the  expenses 
of  the 'mission,  and  we  hope,  rendered  some  assistance  to  the  children 
of  those  parents,  by  whom  the  school  was  supported.  By  residing  at 
the  seat  of  government,  we  experienced  but  few  of  those  evils,  arising 
from  false  reports  and  groundless  suspicions,  to  which  foreigners  are 
generally  exposed;  and  we  may  hope,  that  the  acquaintance  we  formed 
with  the  principal  characters  at  Colombo,  will  prove  to  be  of  lasting  utility 
to  us  and  to  our  mission." 

The  result  of  their  inquiries  in  regard  to  the  stations  to  be  occupied, 
was  that  Mr.  BardwelK  should  go  to  Bombay,  and,  if  permitted,  settle 
with  the  missionaries  there;  that  Messrs.  Richards  and  Meigs  should 
attempt  an  establishment  at  Batticotta,  and  Messrs.  Warren  and  Poor  at 
Tillipally,  both  in  the  Province  of  Jaffna  in  the  northern  part  of  Ceylon. 
This  district  was  visited  by  Dr.  Buchanan  in  Sept.  1806,  and  by  our 
missionary,  Mr.  Newell,  in  July  1813;  and  by  both  of  them  it  is  repre 
sented  as  peculiarly  interesting,  in  a  missionary  point  of  view.  Mr.  New 
ell,  in  his  journal,  says,  "In  case  of  our  settling  in  Ceylon,  the  province 
of  Jaffna  seemed  to  be  the  most  eligible  spot  for  us.  It  is  near  to  the 
continent,  and  the  Tamul,  spoken  at  Jaffna,  is  the  language  of  eight  or 
nine  millions  of  people,  separated  from  Jaffna  only  by  a  narrow  channel." 
In  this  opinion  of  the  eligibility  of  Jaffna,  the  principal  gentlemen  at 
Colombo,  the  Chief  Justice,  Sir  Alexander  Johnstone,  particularly,  who 
expressed  himself  at  large  on  the  subject,  and  the  missionaries  generally, 
were  fully  agreed.  And  in  this.eligible  province,  Tillipally  and  Batticotta 
are  considered  as  decidedly  the  best  missionary  stations. 

Having  settled  their  determination,  and  obtained  the  permission  of  the 
Governor,  the  brethren  judged  it  advisable,  that  Mr.  Warren  should  go 
by  land  to  Jaffna,  without  delay,  for  the  purpose  of  making- some  prepara 
tory  arrangements  there;  and  that  the  rest  should  take  passage,  with 
their  effects,  by  water,  as  soon  as  the  monsoon  would  permit.  Accor 
dingly  Mr.  Warren  left  Colombo  on  the  1st  of  July,  and  arrived  at  Jaffna- 
patam  on  the  llth.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Poor  took  their  departure  by  water, 
on  the  20th  of  September,  and  arrived  at  Jaffna  on  the  26th;  and  Mr. 
Richards  and  Meigs  with  their  wives  followed  on  the  24th  of  the 
same  month,  and  arrived  after  experiencing  some  dangers,  on  the  1st  of 
October. 

In  a  joint  letter,  bearing  date  Jaffnapatam,  Oct.  9,  1816,  the  Brethren 
say,  "On  leaving  Colombo,  such  was  the  state  of  our  families,  and  our 
mode  of  conveyance,  we  had  many  fears,  that  we  should  be  subjected  to 
some  serious  evils  on  our  passage.  But  He,  who  had  before  protected 
us,  dealt  better  with  us  than  we  feared.  Our  safe  arrival  at  this  place, 
and  the  favorable  circumstances  that  surround  us,  lay  us  under  additional 
obligations  to  serve  our  divine  Master.  We  have  visited  the  places,  in 
which  we  hope  to  spend  our  lives,  in  opening  the  treasures  of  the  Gospel 


1817.  REPORT.  151 

to  the  heathen.  Tillipally  is  situated  about  10  miles  north,  and  Batticotta 
6  miles  northwest,  of  Jaffnapatam.  At  each  place,  there  are  between 
three  and  four  acres  of  land,  on  which  stand  a  dwelling-house,  a  large 
church  without  a  roof,  and  a  variety  of  fruit-trees.  From  the  estimates 
that  have  been  made,  12  or  15  hundred  dollars  would  be  necessary 
to  make  such  repairs  as  a  prosperous  mission  at  these  stations  would 
require." 

Both  Tillipally  and  Batticotta  are  represented  as  being  places  of  great 
amenity  and  salubrity  of  climate.  The  glebes  and  buildings  mentioned  by 
the  brethren  are  the  property  of  the  government.  The  churches  and  man 
sion  houses  were  built  by  the  Portuguese,  in  the  16th  century;  they  are 
chiefly  of  coral  stone;  and  the  churches  are  so  large,  that,  when  repair 
ed,  two-thirds  of  each,  will  be  amply  sufficient  for  the  purposes  of  public 
worship,  and  the  remainder  will  afford  good  accommodations  for  schools. 
Of  the  fruit  trees,  about  fifty  on  each  glebe  are  palmyras:  of  which  tree 
the  timber  is  much  used  in  building;  the  leaves  serve  to  cover  the  roofs  of 
their  houses,  and  form  the  olas,  so  generally  used  in  the  east,  instead  of 
paper;  and  the  fruit  constitutes  the  principal  food  of  the  natives  for  more 
than  one  half  of  the  year.  Thirty  or  forty  good  palmyras,  it  is  said,  will, 
for  that  season,  support  a  family  of  natives. 

The  brethren  have  been  officially  given  to  understand,  that  these 
glebes  and  buildings  cannot  be  permanently  secured  to  the  mission,  until 
the  pleasure  of  the  British  government  at  home  shall  be  known;  yet  they 
have  thought  themselves  warranted,  in  entering  upon  the  premises,  and 
making  such  repairs  as  may  be  made  with  little  expense,  and  as  will  ren 
der  the  buildings  fit  for  temporary  use;  leaving  the  question  of  more 
thorough  repairs  to  be  determined  hereafter.  At  Tillipally,  the  repairs 
were  in  such  forwardness,  that  Messrs.  Warren  and  Poor  took  up  their 
residence  there,  about  the  middle  of  October.  But  at  Batticotta,  the  re 
quisite  repairs  could  not  be  made  before  the  rainy  season  came  on;  and 
Messrs.  Richards  and  Meigs,  at  the  latest  date,  20th  of  January,  1817, 
remained  at  Jaffnapatam.  There  they  were  employed  in  studying  the 
Tamul  language,  preaching  occasionally  in  English,  and  getting  forward, 
as  the  season  would  permit,  the  preparations  ibr  their  residence  at  Bat 
ticotta. 

Since  fixing  their  residence  at  Tillipally,  the  brethren  Warren  and 
Poor  have  regularly,  on  the  Sabbath,  preached  by  an  interpreter  there, 
and  also  at  Mallagum,  a  place  about  two  miles  distant.  Their  congrega 
tions  have  varied  from  thirty  to  eighty  persons.  No  females  attend.  They 
have  every  day,  also,  at  the  time  of  morning  prayers,  an  exercise  of  reli 
gious  instruction,  at  which  a  considerable  number  of  persons  are  usually 
present.  Early  in  December,  they  established  a  school  for  the  instruc 
tion  of  native  youth  and  children,  both  in  English  and  Tamul,  and 
another  at  Mallagum;  and  at  their  last  dates,  they  were  making  prepara 
tions  for  establishing  a  third  school  at  Milette,  and  a  fourth  at  Panditeripo,. 
places  in  their  vicinity. 

In  the  province  of  Jaffna,  there  are  some  relics  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
religion,  which  was  introduced  two  or  three  hundred  years  ago,  by  the 
Portuguese;  some  traces  of  religious  knowledge  afterwards  communicated 
by  the  Dutch:  and  some  decaying  fruits  of  the  labors  of  the  missionaries, 
Christian  David,  Mr.  Palm,  and  others:  yet  the  great  mass  of  the  people 


152  REPORT.  1817. 

are  Pagans.  In  the  other  provinces  of  Ceylon,  the  paganism  is  of  the 
Budhist  form,  the  same  which  prevails  in  the  Burman  empire;  but  in 
Jaffna,  it  is  Hindoo,  the  same  with  that  which  prevails  on  the  neighbor 
ing  peninsula  of  India.  In  this  district,  however,  the  people  generally, 
and  even  the  Brahmins,  are  less  devotedly  attached  to  their  idolatrous 
rites,  have  feebler  prejudices  against  Christianity,  and  are  more  easily 
accessible  by  missionaries,  than  in  almost  any  other  part  of  the  Pagan 
world.  They  are  particularly  fond  of  having  their  children  instructed; 
and  our  missionaries  represent,  that  there  will  be  no  difficulty  in  estab 
lishing  schools  among  them,  to  the  utmost  extent  of  the  means,  which 
shall  be  afforded  for  the  purpose;  and  that  something  towards  supporting 
the  schools  may  even  be  expected  from  the  people  themselves. 

They  also  represent,  that  there  is  urgent  want  of  Bibles  and  of  school 
books.  There  is  a  good  translation  of  the  Scriptures  into  the  Tamul, 
the  language  of  the  province,  made  by  the  Danish  missionaries,  in  the 
last  century;  but  copies  of  the  Tamul  Bible  are  extremely  scarce.  A 
considerable  number  of  the  people  can  speak,  and  some  of  them  can 
read  English;  and  many  of  them  are  particularly  desirous  of  having  their 
sons  taught  the  English  language:  but  the  English  Bible  is  also  scarcely 
to  be  found,  and  the  country,  in  a  word,  is  almost  entirely  destitute  of 
books.  Our  missionaries  had  applied  to  the  Colombo  Auxiliary  Bible 
Society  for  some  Tamul  Testaments  for  their  schools;  and  were  in  expec 
tation  of  receiving  a  few;  but  they  saw  no  prospect  of  a  supply  of  books 
from  any  quarter,  until  they  could  be  printed  in  Jaffna;  and  there  is  no 
printing  press  in  the  district.  They  therefore  express  an  earnest  desire 
to  be  furnished,  as  soon  as  possible,  with  a  printing  establishment,  and 
with  hands  and  means  for  putting  it  into  vigorous  operation.  Whether 
it  will  be  best  to  order  to  Jaffna  the  press  already  sent  out,  and  intended 
for  Bombay,  or  to  send  out  another  directly  from  this  country  for  Jaffna, 
your  Committee  have  not  determined;  but  it  will  doubtless  be  the  pleas 
ure  of  this  Board,  that  the  desire  of  the  missionaries  should  be  accom 
plished,  and  their  means  of  usefulness  enlarged  with  the  least  unneces 
sary  delay.  And  it  is  to  be  hoped,  that  the  friends  of  the  Bible  in  our 
country  extensively  will  display  a  liberality  towards  the  object  here  pre 
sented,  in  some  proportion  to  its  evident  and  urgent  claims. 

It  is  not  in  the  district  of  Jaffna  only,  that  Bibles  and  other  books 
might,  be  advantageously  distributed.  The  island  of  Ceylon  at  large  is 
in  a  state  of  peculiar  preparation  for  the  means  of  Christian  instruction. 
It  is  blest  with  a  government  of  most  benign  influence,  which  lends 
countenance  and  aid  to  every  benevolent  design;  and  upon  its  popula 
tion,  extensively,  a  very  considerable  impression  has  been  made  by  the 
operations  of  missionary  and  Bible  Societies.  To  this  impression,  the 
Chief  Justice,  Sir  Alexander  Johnstone,  a  most  distinguished  and  en 
lightened  friend  of  mankind  and  of  missions,  -fci  a  communication  which 
he  has  done  us  the  honor  to  make  to  this  Board,  expressly  attributes  the 
very  interesting  fact,  that  a  plan,  which  he  has  had  long  at  heart  for  the 
abolition  of  slavery  in  the  island,  has  lately  been  adopted  with  wonderful 
consent.  As  so  important  an  effect  has  been  produced  by  means,  in 
which  this  Board  and  this  Christian  community  have  had  a  share,  the 
benevolent  Chief  Justice  entertains  the  hope,  that  from  us  in  this  country 
aid  will  also  be  received,  towards  the  improvement  of  the  large  numbers 


1817.  REPORT.  153 

of  children,  who,  in  consequence  of  the  abolition,  will  be  placed  in  cir 
cumstances  peculiarly  interesting  to  public  charity. 

Nor  should  it  be  overlooked,  in  this  general  survey,  that  the  language 
of  the  province,  in  which  our  missionaries  are  stationed,  is  also  the  lan 
guage  of  eight  or  nine  millions  of  people  on  the  neighboring  peninsula; 
and  that  the  intercourse  is  such  that,  from  Jaffna,  Bibles  and  other  books 
might  with  ease  be  extensively  distributed  in  India. 

Hitherto  our  Ceylon  mission  has  been  marked  with  signal  favor;  and 
its  present  prospects  are  most  rich  in  promise.  The  field  is  white  already 
to  the  harvest,  and  most  active  exertions,  with  humble  dependence  on  the 
Lord  of  the  harvest,  are  evidently  and  urgently  demanded.  The  feelings 
and  views  of  the  missionaries  appear  to  be  such,  as  every  friend  to  the 
cause  would  wish  them  to  cherish. 

"The  events  which  have  hitherto  befallen  us,"  they  say,  "would  form 
a  striking  contrast  with  those,  which  happened  to  our  dear  brethren,  who 
preceded  us  to  this  eastern  world.  As  we  may  hope  their  disappoint 
ments  and  trials  have  wrought  in  them  experience,  patience,  and  hope, 
and  will  ultimately  turn  out  to  the  furtherance  of  the  gospel,  we  would 
make  it  our  concern,  that  the  goodness  of  God,  manifested  in  our  pros 
perity,  may  lead  us  to  repentance,  encourage  us  in  our  arduous  under 
taking,  and  inspire  us  with  such  confidence  in  God,  as  will  enable  us  to 
endure  the  various  trials,  which  every  missionary  is  taught  to  expect." — 
"We  are  not  making  confident  calculations  on  great  and  immediate  suc 
cess.  In  view  of  the  deplorable  condition,  in  which  we  see  the  heathen 
around  us,  and  the  many  obstacles  to  be  surmounted  in  their  being  raised 
from  their  superstitious  and  degraded  state,  we  wish  to  have  our  own 
minds,  and  the  minds  of  our  friends  at  home,  deeply  impressed  with  the 
belief,  that  such  patience  and  perseverance  are  to  be  manifested,  such 
expense  incurred,  and,  in  a  word,  such  exertions  of  various  kinds  made,  as 
will  in  some  degree  correspond  with  the  magnitude  of  the  object  we  have  in 
view.  In  seasons  of  prosperity  and  adversity,  we  would  look  to  God  for  our 
principal  support  and  consolation.  Yet,  we  need,  we  greiftly  need,  to  be 
strengthened  and  encouraged  by  the  friends  of  missions  in  our  own  coun 
try.  We  are  sometimes  ready  to  faint  in  view  of  the  responsibility  of  our 
station,  and  the  important  consequences  of  our  conduct.  Here,  in  this 
dark  corner  of  the  earth,  the  moral  aspect  of  things  around  us  has  a 
chilling  influence  upon  our  hearts,  while  we  are  deprived  of  those  nu 
merous  excitements  to  active  piety,  which  are  felt  by  all  who  enjoy  and 
prize  the  privileges  of  Christian  society.  Hence  we  need  evidence  that 
the  Christian  public  in  America  are  with  us, — that  they  remember  us  in 
their  prayers,  and  are  forward  to  support  that  cause,  to  which  we  would 
ever  consider  ourselves  most  sacredly  devoted." 

AMERICAN  ABORIGINES. — Attention  is  now  to  be  devoted  to  objects 
nearer  home.  The  general  plan  of  the  Prudential  Committee  for  civil 
izing  and  christianizing  the  Pagan  tribes  of  American  Indians,  has  been 
fully  submitted  to  this  Board;  and  at  the  last  anniversary,  measures  pre 
paratory  to  an  establishment  in  the  Cherokee  nation  were  reported.  Your 
Committee  have  now  the  satisfaction  to  state,  that  those  measures  have 
gone  into  effect,  in  a  highly  gratifying  manner. 
20 


154  REPORT.  1817. 

In  September,  a  year  ago,  our  missionary,  the  Rev,  Cyrus  Kingsbury, 
made  his  first  visit  to  the  Cherokees.  Early  in  October  he  attended  a 
general  council  of  the  chiefs  of  the  Cherokees  and  the  Creeks,  and  laid 
before  them  the  object  of  his  mission.  After  consultation,  a  principal 
chief  took  him  affectionately  by  the  hand,  and  said:  "You  have  appeared 
in  our  full  council.  We  have  listened  to  what  you  have  said,  and  under 
stand  it.  We  are  glad  to  see  you.  We  wish  to  have  the  schools  estab 
lished,  and  hope  they  will  be  of  great  advantage  to  the  nation."  Another 
of  the  chiefs  was  appointed  to  go  with  Mr.  Kingsbury,  and  select  a  suit 
able  place  for  an  establishment. 

Cheered  by  these  favorable  dispositions,  Mr.  Kingsbury  immediately 
applied  himself  to  the  requisite  arrangements.  A  plantation,  which  had 
for  some  years  been  occupied  by  a  Scotchman,  who  had  resided  in  the 
nation,  and  which  appeared  to  Mr.  Kingsbury  to  be  well  adapted  to  his 
purpose,  was  offered  on  what  were  considered  very  reasonable  terms; 
and  your  Committee  did  not  hesitate  to  authorize  Mr.  Kingsbury  to  make 
the  purchase. 

As  the  design  is  to  form  the  young  Indians  to  the  habits  of  civilized 
life,  as  well  as  to  impart  to  them  the  knowledge  of  Christianity,  it  is 
necessary  to  take  them  from  their  connections,  and  place  them  entirely 
under  the  direction  and  influence  of  their  instructors.  As  they  thus  con 
stitute  not  only  a  school,  but  a  great  family,  means  must  be  provided  for 
their  support  and  for  their  employment.  Land,  therefore,  not  merely  for 
the  accommodation  of  the  requisite  buildings,  but  for  all  the  purposes  of 
rural  and  domestic  economy,  is  evidently  essential  to  the  plan.  And 
though  the  expense  may  be  considerable  in  the  outset;  it  may  reasonably 
be  expected,  that  when  the  establishment  shall  get  well  into  operation,  it 
will  go  far  towards  supporting  itself. 

Having  fixed  upon  his  station,  Mr.  Kingsbury's  next  care  was  to  lay  in 
a  stock  of  provisions,  intending  to  open  his  school  in  the  course  of  the 
winter,  or  early  in  the  ensuing  spring.  Having  made  these  arrange 
ments  with  great  industry,  and  as  your  Committee  believe,  with  excellent 
judgment,  he  returned  to  fulfil  some  engagements  in  Tennessee. 

Meanwhile  the  Committee  lost  no  time  in  doing  what  was  necessary  on 
their  part,  for  the  proposed  commencement  of  the  establishment.  As 
soon  as  they  were  apprized  of  the  purchase  of  the  plantation,  they  re 
quested  Messrs.  Hall  and  Williams,  two  of  the  young  men  who  had  been 
engaged  as  teachers,  to  get  themselves  in  readiness  for  departure  to  the 
station,  with  all  convenient  despatch.  They  obeyed  the  summons  with 
great  gladness  of  heart,  and  great  activity  in  preparation.  They  sailed 
from  New  York  on  the  22d  of  January,  and  arrived  at  Savannah  on  the 
30th:  thence  proceeded  to  Augusta,  and  thence  across  the  country  to 
Chickamaugah,  the  place  of  their  destination,  where  they  were  welcomed 
by  Mr.  Kingsbury  with  great  joy. 

Here  your  Committee  cannot  satisfy  their  own  minds  better  than  by 
giving  Mr.  Kingsbury's  narrative,  bearing  date  30th  June. 

"I  arrived  at  this  place,"  says  he,  "on  the  13th  of  January.  The 
weather  for  sometime  after  was  extremely  cold  for  this  climate,  and  I 
felt  the  want  of  comfortable  lodgings,  having  only  a  skin  spread  upon  the 
floor,  and  a  thin  covering  of  blankets;  but  my  health  was  kindly  preserv 
ed.  Immediately  on  my  arrival  I  commenced  making  preparations  to 


1817.  REPORT.  155 

cultivate  the  land,  and  to  open  the  school  on  the  plan  proposed.  On  the 
7th  of  March,  I  had  the  great  satisfaction  of  welcoming  the  arrival  of 
brethren  Hall  and  Williams,  with  their  wives.  A  kind  Providence  pre 
served  them  through  many  dangers,  and  brought  them  to  their  destined 
place  in  safety.  Since  their  arrival  we  have  all,  when  health  would  per 
mit,  been  employed  from  Monday  morning  till  Saturday  night,  either  in 
hard  labor,  or  on  journies  for  the  mission.  We  have  had  to  provide  for 
a  numerous  family,  and  to  make  preparations  for  supplying  the  wants  of 
a  still  more  numerous  one.  In  such  a  situation,  we  felt  it  to  be  our  in 
dispensable  duty,  to  labor  as  far  as  health  and  strength  would  permit, 
that  we  might  not  be  chargeable. 

"Soon  after  our  arrival  in  the  nation,  we  opened  our  doors  to  receive 
children  into  our  family,  to  teach  them  the  rudiments  of  the  English  lan 
guage,  the  principles  of  the  Christian  religion,  and  the  industry  and  arts 
of  civilized  life.  The  present  number  is  twenty-six;  of  different  ages, 
from  four  to  eighteen  years.  Some  are  full  blooded  Cherokees;  others 
three  fourths  white.  Six  of  the  native  children  had  been  at  school  be 
fore,  and  regularly  read  a  portion  of  Scripture  at  our  family  worship. 
On  the  whole,  we  must  say,  that  our  children  give  us  great  satisfaction; 
they  labor  when  out  of  school  much  more  cheerfully  and  constantly  than 
we  had  reason  to  expect:  and  could  the  friends  of  this  mission  look  into 
our  school,  and  see  these  tawny  sons  and  daughters  of  the  forest  listening 
to  our  instructions,  sitting  at  our  table,  and  bowing  around  our  family 
altar,  we  do  not  believe  they  would  grudge  the  money  they  have  given  to 
commence  this  establishment."  "The  school  is  much  approved  in  the 
nation,  and  many  are  wishing  to  send  their  children  as  soon  as  we  can 
take  them."  "We  expect  six  or  seven  more  in  a  few  days." 

"Besides  this  school  we  have  on  the  Sabbath  a  school  for  black  peo 
ple,  in  which  there  are  generally  from  twenty  to  thirty,  mostly  adults, 
two  Cherokee  men,  and  three  white  men.  The  conduct  and  improve 
ment  of  all  these  is  very  pleasing;  making  in  all  fifty-six,  that  are  either 
constantly  or  occasionally  our  pupils. 

"We  have  preached  on  the  Sabbath,  and  our  congregation  is  respecta 
ble  and  constantly  increasing.  Last  Sabbath  there  were  nearly  a  hun 
dred,  most  of  whom  could  understand  our  language.  After  a  sermon  in 
English  I  endeavored  to  speak  by  an  interpreter  to  those  who  did  not 
understand  it.  The  audience  appear  attentive  and  solemn,  and  much 
more  regular  than  many  where  I  have  attended  in  the  settlement  among 
the  whites." 

"So  many  have  been  our  inconveniences,  and  so  much  labor  has  been 
upon  our  hands,  that  we  could  not  have  that  division  of  duties,  which  we 
hope  hereafter  to  observe.  Previous  to  the  arrival  of  my  brethren,  the 
business  of  the  mission  had  all  been  conducted  by  myself.  This  circum 
stance,  together  with  their  feeble  health,  made  it  necessary  that  I  should 
still  continue  to  bear  the  burden  of  cares  and  of  the  business  abroad. 
This  has  left  me  no  time  for  study,  or  for  writing.  My  brethren  have 
always  felt  anxious  to  relieve  me  from  so  much  attention  to  secular  busi 
ness;  and  a  few  days  since  I  gave  the  oversight  of  the  business  entirely 
to  brother  Williams.  This  has  relieved  my  mind  from  the  weight  of 
cares,  which,  together  with  my  other  duties,  I  found  too  great  to  bear. 
Brother  Hall  has  from  the  first  had  the  charge  of  the  school;  and,  when 
out,  he  assists  us  in  the  work  we  have  to  do." 


156  REPORT.  1817. 

It  will  be  recollected,  that  Mr.  Kingsbury  had  assurance  from  the 
Secretary  of  War,  that  the  government  would  erect  for  the  benefit  of  the 
mission  a  school-house  and  a  dwelling  house,  besides  providing  various 
implements  of  husbandry  and  domestic  manufacture.  Owing,  not  to 
any  fault  of  the  government  or  of  the  agent,  but  to  a  failure  of  the  person 
who  had  contracted  to  erect  the  buildings,  they  had  not  been  erected, 
nor  were  they  likely  to  be  for  a  considerable  time.  "This,"  says 
Mr.  Kingsbury,  "has  subjected  us  to  great  inconvenience  and  much  ex 
pense.  We  have  been  obliged  to  build  four  long  cabins  for  dwelling 
houses.  These  will  accommodate  our  school  when  our  other  houses  are 
erected.  We  are  now  engaged  in  making  and  burning  about  20,000 
bricks  for  our  chimnies;  must  soon  burn  lime  for  the  same,  and  dig  two 
cellars  and  a  well.  All  this  business  comes  upon  us  when  we  are  most 
busy  on  our  plantation.  But  it  was  work,  which  was  indispensable,  with 
our  numerous  family;  and  we  thought  it  better  to  do  it  at  once  than  to  be 
two  or  three  years  about  it.  We  now  have  our  meal  to  transport  forty  or 
fifty  miles,  and  we  use  near  a  bushel  a  day.  This  rendered  it  necessary 
that  we  should  have  a  mill  immediately,  and  we  are  in  daily  expectation 
of  a  man  to  build  it." 

"Agreeably  to  our  instructions,  we  have  endeavored  to  lay  the  foun 
dation  of  the  establishment  "broad  and  lasting."  Though  expensive  at 
first,  it  is  sound  economy.  We  have  exerted  ourselves  to  get  in  a  crop; 
have  between  twenty  and  thirty  acres  in  corn,  some  cotton,  flax,  potatoes, 
&/c.  All  the  money  we  could  spare  has  been  devoted  to  the  purchase 
of  stock."  In  a  letter  to  the  Treasurer  Mr.  Kingsbury  says,  "There 
are  now  belonging  to  the  mission  3  horses,  1  yoke  of  oxen,  5  steers, 
14  cows  and  11  calves,  22  sheep,  and  about  30  swine.  It  would  be 
greatly  to  the  advantage  of  the  mission  to  enlarge  our  stock,  particularly 
in  cows. 

"My  dear  brethren  Hall  and  Williams,  and  their  wives,  cheerfully  bear 
their  proportion  of  our  labors,  though  they  have  not  been  favored  with  so 
good  health  as  myself." 

From  these  details,  which  your  Committee  have  thought  it  important  to 
the  object  of  their  report  to  exhibit  thus  at  length,  this  Board,  arid 
through  them,  it  is  hoped,  the  community  at  large,  will  receive  some  just 
impressions  of  the  indefatigable  exertions  of  Mr.  Kingsbury  and  his  faith 
ful  assistants,  of  the  prosperity  with  which  by  divine  goodness,  those  ex 
ertions  have  been  attended,  and  of  the  nature,  the  principal  features,  and 
the  high  importance  of  the  mission.  "We  have  indeed,"  says  Mr.  Kings- 
bury,  "had  much  labor  and  many  cares;  but  in  a  remarkable  manner,  we 
have  experienced  the  truth  of  that  precious  promise,  "as  thy  day  is  so 
shall  thy  strength  be;"  and  we  feel  more  than  compensated  for  all  our 
labors,  by  the  cheering  prospects  of  usefulness,  which  are  opening  before 
us.  But  we  rejoice  with  trembling;  and  would  resign  ourselves,  and 
the  cause  of  Christ  in  this  nation,  to  the  hands  of  Him,  who  does  all 
things  well." 

Mr.  Kingsbury  is  confident,  that  it  would  be  highly  gratifying  to  the 
Cherokees  to  have  more  schools  established  among  them,  and  expresses  a 
strong  hope  that  the  Board  will  soon  be  able  to  establish  more.  Should  a 
considerable  part  of  the  nation,  in  consequence  of  the  arrangement  recently 
made  for  an  exchange  of  lands,  remove  to  the  west  of  the  Mississippi,  the 


1817.  REPORT.  157 

event,  he  thinks,  should  not  be  regarded  as  inauspicious;  as  a  missionary 
establishment  in  that  more  distant  region  would  be  highly  important,  and 
would  furnish  many  facilities  for  extending  the  Gospel  over  an  immense 
wilderness. 

But  the  Cherokees  are  not  the  only  tribe  of  Pagan  Aborigines,  which 
demands  benevolent  attention.  Such  information  has  been  received,  as 
strongly  impresses  the  belief,  that  establishments,  similar  to  the  one  now 
reported,  would  be  very  accc-.ptable  to  the  Choctaws,  Chickasaws  arid 
Creeks.  Indeed,  an  ardent  desire  has  been  expressed  by  chiefs  of  these 
several  tribes,  and  by  government  agents  in  them,  that  schools  might 
be  established  among  them.  And  it  is  peculiarly  gratifying,  that  your 
Committee  have  it  in  their  power  to  state,  that  the  general  government 
regards  this  design  with  highly  propitious  dispositions;  that  the  officers 
of  government  are  particularly  desirous,  that  the  instruction  of  the  four 
nations  now  named  should  go  on  at  the  same  time;  and  that  official 
assurance  has  been  given,  "that  the  same  patronage  will  be  extended 
to  any  establishment  made  within  those  nations  for  the  objects  stated, 
as  have  been  given  to  the  establishment  for  similar  purposes,  made 
under  the  direction  of  Mr.  Kingsbury  in  the  Cherokee  nation.  "The 
limited  appropriations,"  adds  the  Secretary  at  War,  "The  limited  appro 
priations  for  the  Indian  department  will,  for  the  present,  preclude  the 
executive  government  from  extending  a  more  liberal  patronage  to  the 
Board  in  their  laudable  efforts  for  the  accomplishment  of  objects  so  very 
desirable." 

For  the  liberal  patronage  which  the  executive  government  has  exten 
ded  and  engaged  to  extend,  and  the  favorable  dispositions  which  the 
officers  and  agents  of  the  government,  have,  in  the  kindest  manner, 
testified  towards  the  objects  of  the  Board,  your  Committee  beg  to  express, 
in  behalf  of  the  Board  and  its  numerous  coadjutors  and  friends,  the  most 
sincere  thanks,  and  to  invoke  the  most  substantial  blessings.  They 
devoutly  hail  these  gratifying  indications  as  eminently  auspicious  tokens; 
and  under  a  deep  and  grateful  impression,  they  have  placed  on  record 
the  solemn  resolve,  that  they  "will  take  and  perseveringly  pursue 
measures  for  the  establishment  of  missionary  stations  and  schools  in 
the  Choctaw,  Chickasaw,  and  Creek  nations,  as  soon  and  as  fast  as 
Providence  shall  open  the  way  and  supply  the  means;"  and  measures  in 
pursuance  of  this  resolve  are  now  in  progress. 

The  Committee,  indeed,  have  a  strong  and  animating  persuasion,  that 
the  time  has  come  for  a  great  and  vigorous  effort  for  bringing  up,  in  part, 
the  long  and  heavy  arrears  of  our  country  to  those  poor  and  diminished 
tribes  of  our  fellow  beings,  whose  fathers  once  called  their  own  the 
widely  extended  territories,  over  which  our  prosperous  dwellings  are 
now  spread,  and  continually  spreading.  And  they  cherish  the  hope, 
that  all  classes  of  the  community  will  feel  the  generous  impulse,  and 
give,  with  sacred  emulation,  their  hearts  and  hands  to  the  beneficent 
work. 

Besides  the  Cherokees,  Choctaws,  Chickasaws  and  Creeks,  there  are 
other  tribes  of  pagan  and  savage  Aborigines;  some  in  different  states  and 
territories  on  this  side  the  Mississippi,  arid  many  more  in  the  vastly  ex 
tensive  wilds  beyond.  While,  therefore,  the  counsels  and  labors  and 
funds  of  this  Board  are  bestowed  upon  the  four  specified  nations,  and 


158  REPORT.  1817. 

they  are  regarded  as  especially  our  field;  there  is  yet  ample  room  for  the 
benevolent  exertions  of  other  societies.  And  if  different  societies  occupy 
different  fields,  unpleasant  interferences  and  collisions  may  be  avoided, 
and  all  may  co-operate  in  the  great  and  good  work,  with  harmony  of 
feeling,  and  with  the  fairest  prospects  of  success. 

FOREIGN  MISSION  SCHOOL. — The  Agency  appointed  at  the  last  aniver- 
sary,  for  the  purpose  of  "forming  a  plan  for  establishing  and  conducting  a 
school  for  the  education  of  heathen  youth  in  this  country,"  lost  no  time 
in  attending  to  the  important  business;  and  it  has  been  the  cheerful  en 
deavor  of  the  Prudential  Committee  to  render  them  every  facility  and 
aid  in  their  power.  On  the  29th  of  October  the  Agency  agreed  upon  a 
constitution  for  the  proposed  school, — fixed  upon  a  plan  for  its  establish 
ment, — nominated  a  preceptor  or  principal, — and  appointed  a  visiting 
committee,  and  a  committee  to  make  the  necessary  contracts  for  the 
purchase  of  land  for  the  use  of  the  institution.  On  12th  November  these 
doings  were  approved  and  ratified  by  the  Prudential  Committee;  and  the 
official  commissions  were  given,  and  the  requisite  appropriations  were 
made.  The  Committee  also  authorized  the  publication  by  the  Agency 
of  a  "Narrative  of  five  youth  from  the  Sandwich  Islands,"  under  the 
patronage  of  the  Board,  for  the  information  and  excitement  of  the 
Christian  public. 

Shortly  afterwards,  lands  and  buildings  for  the  Institution  were  pur 
chased  in  Cornwall,  (Con.)  and  measures  were  put  forward  to  get  it  into 
operation  as  soon  as  it  could  well  be  done. 

As  the  Rev.  Joseph  Harvey,  who  was  first  elected  principal  of  the 
school,  was  induced  by  a  change  of  circumstances  to  decline  the  appoint 
ment,  the  Rev.  Herman  Daggett  was  afterwards  duly  appointed  to  the 
office:  and  as  his  engagements  would  not  admit  of  his  assuming  the 
office  under  several  months,  Mr.  Edwin  W.  Dwight  was  designated  to 
take  charge  of  the  school  in  the  intervening  time.  The  school  was  com 
menced  under  the  instruction  of  Mr.  Dwight  about  the  first  of  May; 
the  number  of  pupils  is  twelve;  and  the  accounts  which  your  Com 
mittee  have  received  of  their  deportment  and  progress  are  highly  satis 
factory. 

As  a  particular  account  of  this  seminary,  styled  in  its  constitution, 
THE  FOREIGN  MISSION  SCHOOL,  is  expected  from  the  School  Agency,  it 
would  be  superfluous  to  go  into  minute  details,  or  to  dilate  on  the  subject 
in  the  present  Report. 

Your  Committee,  however,  cannot  dismiss  this  topic  without  stating, 
that,  from  extensive  information  and  various  evidence,  it  appears,  that 
the  school  is  regarded,  in  all  parts  of  our  country,  with  particular  favor 
and  a  very  lively  interest.  By  this  Board  it  will  ever  be  fostered  with 
parental  care.  Designed,  as  it  is,  to  fit  young  persons  who  come  to  this 
favored  land,  from  amidst  the  darkness  and  corruptions  and  miseries 
of  paganism,  to  be  sent  back  to  their  respective  nations  with  the  bles 
sings  of  civilized  and  christianized  society;  with  the  useful  sciences 
and  arts;  with  the  purifying  light  of  salvation;  with  the  elevating  hopes 
of  immortality;  the  relative  importance  and  eventual  utility  of  this 
infant  seminary  can  hardly  be  too  highly  estimated.  May  abundant 
grace,  from  HIM  in  whom  all  fulness  dwells,  make  it  a  living  fountain, 


1817.  REPORT.  159 

whose  pure  and  fertilizing  streams  shall  cause  many  a  wilderness  and 
solitary  place  to  be  glad,  and  many  a  desert  to  rejoice  and  blossom  as  the 
rose. 

NEW  MISSIONARIES.  Our  Missionaries  at  Bombay,  in  Ceylon,  and  in 
the  Cherokee  nation,  all  express  an  earnest  desire  that  more  laborers 
may  be  sent  out  to  help  them  in  their  great  work.  Not  only,  indeed,  is 
it  evidently  of  high  importance,  that  the  several  stations  already  occu 
pied  should  be  strengthened;  but  other  fields  are  opening  with  inviting 
prospects  and  with  urgent  claims,  and  the  harvest  truly  is  plenteous. 
It  must  therefore  rejoice  the  hearts  and  excite  the  gratitude  of  all  the 
friends  of  the  cause  to  know,  that  new  laborers  are  coming  forward  to 
the  holy  and  momentous  work. 

On  the  3d  day  of  the  present  month,  in  pursuance  of  arrangements 
previously  made  by  your  Committee,  Messrs.  ALLEN  GRAVES,  ELISHA 
P.  SWIFT,  JOHN  NICHOLS,  DANIEL  S.  BUTTRICK,  and  LEVI  PARSONS, 
were  ordained  in  Boston,  as  missionaries  to  be  employed  under  the  di 
rection  of  this  Board.  It  was  found  convenient  that  the  ordination 
should  be  in  connexion  with  the  induction  of  the  Rev.  SERENO  ED 
WARDS  DWIGHT  into  the  pastoral  office  in  the  church  in  Park-street;  and 
the  sermon  for  both  occasions  was  by  the  Rev.  Lyman  Beecher.  The 
introductory  prayer  was  offered  by  the  Rev.  Mr.  Taylor  of  New  Haven, 
Conn,  the  prayer  consecrating  the  missionaries  by  your  Corresponding 
Secretary;  the  charge  to  them  was  delivered  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Morse,  and 
the  right  hand  of  fellowship  by  the  Rev.  Mr.  Bates  of  Dedham,  assisted 
by  the  Rev.  Messrs.  Codman  of  Dorchester,  Huntington  of  Boston,  Gile 
of  Milton,  and  Storrs  of  Randolph;  and  the  Rev.  Mr.  Homer  of  Newton 
offered  the  concluding  prayer.  These  services  were  followed  by  a  cele 
bration  of  the  Holy  Supper,  in  which  the  Vice  President  of  this  Board 
presided;  the  Rev.  Mr.  Beecher,  and  the  Rev.  Mr.  Payson,  of  Portland,, 
were  the  administrators;  and  hundreds  of  grateful  communicants  assem 
bled  from  different  and  distant  churches,  united  in  shewing  forth  the 
Lord's  death  as  the  propitiation  for  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  the  founda 
tion  of  hope  to  all  the  families  of  the  earth.  It  was  a  day  of  impressive 
solemnity,  of  holy  joy,  and  of  sacred  vows. 

Of  the  missionaries  thus  solemnly  separated  to  the  work,  Messrs, 
Graves  and  Nichols  are  destined  for  India,  to  strengthen  our  stations- 
there,  and  are  expected  to  take  their  departure  in  two  or  three  weeks. 
Mr.  Butrick  is  soon  to  be  sent  to  one  of  the  Indian  tribes  in  the  south- 
western  part  of  our  country.  Mr.  Swift  holds  himself  in  readiness  for 
the  Eastern  or  Western  service,  to  be  sent  forth  as  soon  as  certain  par 
ticular  contingencies  will  enable  your  Committee  finally  to  decide  on  his 
destination.  And  Mr.  Parsons  is  intended  to  be  employed  for  some 
time,  as  an  agent  for  promoting  the  objects  of  the  Board  at  home;  and 
afterwards  to  be  sent  forth  to  any  field,  to  which  Divine  Providence  may- 
direct. 

Besides  those  now  named,  there  are  two  others,  who  hold  themselves 
engaged  and  ready  for  the  service.  About  nine  months  ago  a  letter  was 
received  by  the  Corresponding  Secretary  from  the  Rev.  Ard  Hoyt,  then- 
pastor  of  a  church  in  Wikesbarre,  Pennsylvania,  in  which  he  expressed 
himself  as  follows:  "With  diffidence  and  trembling  I  write  to  you  on  a 
subject,  which  for  some  months  past  has  pressed  on  my  mind  with  great 


160  REPORT.  1817. 

weight,  viz.  offering  myself  and  family  to  go  on  a  mission  to  some  of  the 
heathen  tribes  on  our  frontiers.  Attending  to  your  plan  for  evangelizing 
these  tribes,  I  thought  I  could  see  it  perfectly  practicable;  and  was  led 
to  believe  that  a  divine  blessing  would  attend  the  undertaking,  if  Amer 
ican  Christians  would  enter  into  the  spirit  of  this  plan,  and  prosecute  it 
upon  that  large  scale,  and  with  that  benevolence  and  perseverance, 
which  the  magnitude  of  the  work  calls  for.  My  mind  was  expanded,  my 
heart  was  enlarged,  and  imagination  painted  these  now  savage  tribes, 
* English  in  their  language,  civilized  in  their  manners,  and  Christian  in 
their  religion'  I  then  said,  Who  will  go? — and  for  my  life  could  not 
help  replying  in  the  language  of  the  prophet,  'Here  am  I;  send  me.' 
Since  that  time  waking  or  sleeping,  my  mind  has  been  on  this  subject 
more  than  any  other,  and  frequently  to  the  exclusion  of  all  other  care 
and  thought." — "After  repeatedly  seeking  divine  direction,  I  have  con 
cluded,  dear  sir,  to  write  to  you,  and  through  you  to  the  Prudential 
Committee,  if  you  should  see  cause  to  lay  the  subject  before  them.3: 
"I  am  now  forty-six  years  old." — "We  have  three  children,  (one  son  and 
two  daughters)  who  are  the  hopeful  subjects  of  renewing  grace,  and  who 
had  manifested  strong  desires  to  be  sent  to  the  heathen,  before  there  was 
any  thought  of  my  going.  The  youngest  of  the.  three  has  passed  her 
eighteenth  year.  The  son  is  now  a  member  of  Princeton  College  in  the 
junior  class.  There  is  also  a  young  man  twenty-five  years  old,  of  ap 
proved  talents  and  piety,  who  has  been  for  sometime  a  member  of  my 
family,  studying  under  the  patronage  of  a  benevolent  society,  for  the 
express  purpose  of  being  prepared  to  go  to  the  heathen.  Should  my 
family  be  accepted,  he  will  be  pleased  to  go  with  us." 

This  interesting  communication  demanded  attention;  and  what  was 
deemed  a  suitable  course  of  proceeding  was  suggested.  Mr.  Hoyt  sub 
mitted  his  case  to  ecclesiastical  advisement;  was  regularly  dismissed  from 
his  pastoral  charge;  and,  by  the  same  ministers,  who  were  present  at 
his  dismission,  was  very  affectionately  and  amply  recommended  to  the 
Prudential  Committee  as  "a  regular  and  respectable  minister  of  the  Gos 
pel,  highly  esteemed  for  his  talents,  prudence,  and  piety,  and  eminently 
qualified  for  usefulness  in  the  contemplated  mission."  By  the  same 
ministers,  also,  Mr.  William  Chamberlain,  the  young  man  mentioned  by 
Mr.  Hoyt,  as  a  member  of  his  family,  was  recommended,  "as  a  suitable 
character  to  be  employed  in  an  Indian  Mission; — as  a  discreet,  pious, 
zealous,  and  promising  young  man;"  and  a  highly  satisfactory  testimo 
nial  was  given  in  favor  of  the  whole  family. 

There  are  known  to  your  Committee  five  or  six  young  men,  now  in  a 
course  of  preparation  for  the  ministry,  who  hold  themselves  devoted  to 
the  service  of  Christ  among  the  heathen,  and  intend  ere  long  to  offer 
themselves  in  form  to  the  patronage  of  this  Board. 

In  no  instance  have  the  Committee  sought  for  missionaries,  or  used 
solicitation  or  persuasion  with  an  individual  to  engage  in  the  service. 
All  who  have  been  received  under  the  patronage  of  the  Board,  have 
offered  themselves,  and  not  till  their  course  of  preparatory  studies  for 
the  ministry  was  completed,  or  nearly  completed;  constrained,  as  they 
have  thought,  by  the  influences  of  divine  grace,  and  esteeming  it  the 
highest  privilege  to  be  employed  in  making  known  the  way  of  life  to  the 
perishing  heathen.  Nor  have  they  been  received,  until  the  Committee 
have  obtained  satisfactory  evidence  of  their  essential  qualifications. 


1817.  REPORT.  161 

FUNDS.  The  Board  was  apprised  at  the  last  anniversary,  that  its  ex 
tended  plans  could  not  be  carried  into  effect  without  greatly  augmented 
expenditures.  To  secure  the  necessary  funds  required  early  and  earnest 
attention.  Agreeably  to  the  recommendation  of  the  Board,  the  Rev. 
Mr.  Cornelius  has  been  continued  by  the  Committee,  as  an  Agent;  and 
his  well  directed  diligence  and  zeal,  his  fidelity  and  success,  entitle  him 
to  the  thanks  of  all  who  love  the  Lord  Jesus  and  his  cause,  and  call  for 
most  grateful  acknowledgments  to  the  God  of  all  grace.  Other  Agents 
have  been  employed,  among  whom  our  missionaries,  the  Rev.  Mr.  Hoyt 
in  Pennsylvania,  Mr.  Swift  in  New  Jersey  and  New  York,  Mr.  Nichols 
in  New  Hampshire,  and  Mr.  Parsons  in  Vermont, — and  besides  them, 
the  Rev.  Nathan  Perkins  in  Hampshire  and  the  adjoining  counties,  the 
Rev.  Samuel  J.  Mills  in  Maryland  and  Virginia,  and  Mr.  Robert  C.  Rob- 
bins  in  the  southern  states,  have  rendered  very  essential  services.  Other 
agents  have  yielded  occasional  assistance,  in  the  places  where  they  re 
spectively  reside. 

Within  the  past  year  donations  have  been  received  from  forty-seven 
Foreign  Mission  Societies,  one  hundred  and  sixteen  other  Societies,  under 
different  names,  principally,  however,  denominated  Cent  Societies,  and 
one  hundred  and  thirty-six  associations  for  the  education  of  heathen  chil 
dren  and  youth;  making  about  three  hundred  in  the  whole.  Of  these 
societies  eighty-one  consist  of  males  only,  one  hundred  and  seventy-three 
of  females  only,  twenty  of  persons  of  both  sexes;  the  remaining  twenty- 
jive,  not  being  distinguished,  (whether  composed  of  males  or  females, 
or  of  persons  of  both  sexes,)  in  their  communications  to  the  Treasurer. 

Though  many  of  these  Societies  remit  but  small  sums,  they  exhibit 
most  pleasing  evidence  that  a  multitude  of  hands  are  already  employed 
in  this  work  of  the  Lord;  and  they  furnish  a  rational  prospect,  that  do 
nations  may  be  greatly  increased,  if  the  knowledge  of  the  Christian  pub 
lic  advances,  and  the  zeal  and  activity  of  the  friends  of  missions  are 
augmented.  As  auxiliary  societies  are  multiplied;  as  new  fields  for  mis 
sionary  exertion  are  opened;  as  new  and  urgent  calls  are  made  upon 
Christian  benevolence,  the  Committee  feel  the  necessity  of  a  more  con 
stant  intercourse  with  the  various  patrons  of  the  Board,  than  has  hitherto 
subsisted.  Such  an  intercourse,  by  means  of  the  press,  is  easily  prac 
ticable,  if  the  functionaries  of  the  Board  can  command  the  time  requisite 
for  it. 

The  donations  to  the  Board,  during  the  year  past,  have  somewhat  ex 
ceeded  twenty-seven  thousand  dollars. 

To  the  numerous  friends  of  this  Board,  in  the  different  parts  of  our 
country,  associated  and  unassociated,  male  and  female,  who,  by  their 
liberal  benefactions,  their  active  exertions,  or  their  efficient  influence, 
have  aided  its  general  design,  or  its  particular  objects,  every  member 
will  concur  with  the  Committee  in  feeling  and  expressing  the  liveliest 
gratitude.  The  true  friends  of  missions  are  one  body,  having  one  com 
mon  object,  one  common  interest.  There  are  many  members,  but  they 
are  all  necessary.  If  this  Board  is  necessary,  its  various  auxiliary  asso 
ciations  are  also  necessary;  and  so  too  are  the  individuals,  even  to  the 
widow  of  two  mites,  who  contribute  to  its  funds,  and  labor  and  pray  for 
its  success.  This  sentiment  should  be  deeply  and  mutually  felt.  It  should 
be  felt  and  acknowledged  that  the  small  contribution  of  the  humblest 
friend  of  the  cause  is  as  really  a  service  to  it, — as  really,  though  not  in  the 
21 


162  REPORT.  1817. 

same  degree,  necessary  to  its  advancement,  as  the  munificent  donation 
of  its  most  opulent  benefactor,  or  the  arduous  labors  of  its  most  impor 
tant  functionary.  With  this  sentiment,  it  is  devoutly  to  be  wished  that 
the  whole  Christian  community  may  be  inspired. 

Though  in  the  course  of  the  last  year  many  new  associations  have 
been  formed,  and  many  new  contributors  have  come  forward,  and  the 
amount  of  contributions  and  donations  has  been  more  than  double  that 
of  any  former  year;  yet  there  is  need,  most  urgent  need  of  increased 
activity,  of  more  enlarged  liberality,  of  greatly  multiplied  numbers,  of 
vastly  augmented  funds.  If  the  income  of  the  Board  has  increased,  so 
also  has  the  expenditure.  Our  expenses  the  last  year  for  missionaries, 
schools,  and  translations  at  Bombay  and  Ceylon,  amount  to  almost 
eleven  thousand  dollars;  those  for  the  various  purposes  of  the  Cherokee 
establishment,  to  almost  two  thousand  and  six  hundred;  those  for  the 
foreign  mission  school  a.,  Cornwall,  to  about  five  thousand;  and  those  of 
various  contingencies  to  about  seventeen  hundred:  making  a  total  of 
somewhat  more  than  twenty  thousand  dollars.  This  augmented  expendi 
ture,  considering  the  objects  to  which  it  has  been  applied,  will  be  mat 
ter  of  devout  joy  and  thankfulness  to  all,  who,  with  singleness  of  heart, 
seek  the  enlargement  of  the  Redeemer's  kingdom  and  the  best  interests 
of  mankind.  It  has  been  applied  for  the  support  of  eight  preachers  of 
the  Gospel  to  the  heathen, — for  the  employment  of  as  many  teachers  of 
schools  in  heathen  lands, — for  the  instruction  directly  of  four  or  five 
hundred  youth  and  children,  heathen  and  Jewish,*  for  the  founding  of 
establishments,  designed  for  the  unlimited  benefit  of  heathen  nations, 
and  for  the  translation  into  various  heathen  languages,  and  the  disper 
sion  among  millions  of  heathen  people,  of  the  lively  oracles,  given  from 
heaven,  to  turn  them  from  their  vanities  unto  the  living  God,  and  to 
raise  them  from  their  wretchedness  to  immortal  glory. 

Must  not  the  expenditure  of  the  ensuing  year  be  much  greater?  Is  it 
not  desirable  that  it  should  be? 

It  is  calculated,  indeed,  that  the  foreign  mission  school  and  the  Cher 
okee  establishment  will  henceforth  do  much  for  their  own  maintenance; 
though  they  will  still  require,  from  year  to  year,  very  considerable  aid. 
But  to  the  eight  missionaries,  already  dependent  on  the  Board  for  sup 
port,  six  or  seven  more  are  now  to  be  added;  other  establishments,  simi 
lar  to  that  in  the  Cherokee  nation,  are  to  be  founded;  other  schools  are 
to  be  established  in  India;  and  in  the  printing  and  distributing  of  the 
Scriptures  and  other  books  advances  must  be  made,  attended  with  pro- 
portionably  increased  expense. 

In  this  prospective  View  there  is  nothing  to  appal  or  to  dismay,  but 
every  thing  to  animate  and  to  incite.  The  work  must  advance;  and  the 
means  will  be  supplied.  The  cause  is  God's;  the  silver  and  the  gold  are 
his;  and  the  hearts  and  the  hands  of  men  are  in  his  power.  His  word 
of  promise  also  is  ample  and  sure.  Yet  the  plan  of  his  sovereign  wisdom 
connects  with  his  all  powerful  grace  the  otherwise  inefficient  exertions 
of  men;  and  makes  it  the  high  duty  and  privilege  of  his  friends,  in  their 
various  places  and  relations,  to  unite  their  hearts  with  his,  and  to  be 
active  co-workers  with  Him. 

*  While  this  sheet  was  partly  in  type,  intelligence  was  received  from  Bombay,  which  au 
thorises  us  to  say  seven  or  eight  hundred,  instead  of  four  or  Jive  hundred. 


1817.  REPORT.  ^      163 

Here  then  is  ample  warrant,  encouragement,  and  scope  for  both  asso 
ciated  and  individual  effort  for  the  advancement  of  the  best  of  objects; 
for  the  exertion  of  that  sacred  influence  which  peculiarly  belongs  to  the 
ministers  of  Christ;  for  the  exercise  of  that  female  love  to  the  Savior  and 
his  cause,  which  so  often  displays  itself  as  his  brightest  image  on  earth, 
and  of  which  so  many  precious  memorials  are  borne  upon  his  heart;  and 
for  the  activity  and  liberality  of  all,  who  would  wish  to  have  it  appear  in 
the  final,  revealing  day,  that  they  have  done  something  for  the  spread  of 
his  great  salvation.  And  your  Committee  are  persuaded  that,  when  the 
Christian  public  shall  be  made  acquainted  with  what  has  been  done, 
and  given  distinctly  to  understand,  that  augmented  funds  are  urgently 
needed,  for  the  support  of  missions  and  schools  already  established,  for 
the  establishment  of  others,  and  for  carrying  forward  the  interesting 
work  of  translating,  printing  and  distributing  the  Word  of  Life,  an 
animated  activity  and  liberality  will  be  displayed. 

If,  during  the  last  year,  a  year  of  uncommon  and  almost  unexampled 
scarcity  and  embarrassment  in  our  country  at  large,  our  more  than 
doubled  expenditure  was  met  with  more  than  doubled  receipts;  what  may 
not  be  reasonably  expected  for  the  ensuing  year,  now  that  the  Lord  has 
opened  the  windows  of  heaven,  and  poured  out  a  blessing  upon  the  land 
extensively,  so  that  there  is  scarcely  room  enough  to  receive  it?  Will 
not  this  exuberance  of  divine  goodness  flow,  through  the  grateful  recip 
ients,  to  thousands  and  millions  who  are  famishing  for  the  bread  of 
life? 

Will  the  Christian  people  of  this  favored  country  compel  us  to  cease 
our  operations,  or  to  abridge  our  plans?  Will  they  say  to  us,  'Recall  the 
missionaries,  who  are  already  gone  forth;  stop  those  who  are  going. 
Let  the  work  of  translating,  printing,  and  distributing  the  Scriptures  pro 
ceed  no  further.  Shut  up  those  schools,  and  send  those  hundreds  of 
children  to  remain  in  the  ignorance  and  to  follow  the  ways  of  their  pa 
rents.  Let  the  heathen  take  care  of  themselves  and  of  their  own.  If 
the  Savior  will  have  them  for  his  inheritance,  he  will  take  possession  of 
them  when  he  pleases.  It  is  no  concern  of  ours!'  Will  they  say  this? 

Trusting  in  God,  this  Board  may,  and  must  "GO  FORWARD."  We 
have  the  high  commission  of  the  ascending  Redeemer.  We  have  the 
commandment  of  the  everlasting  God.  OUR  OBJECT  is  SECOND  TO 
NONE  UNDER  HEAVEN.  "For  after  that,  in  the  wisdom  of  God,  the  world 
by  wisdom  knew  not  God,  it  pleased  God,  BY  THE  FOOLISHNESS  OF 
PREACHING,  to  save  thcjn  that  believe"  The  translation  and  dispersion 
of  the  Scriptures,  and  schools  for  the  instruction  of  the  young,  are  parts, 
and  necessary  parts,  of  the  great  design.  But  it  must  never  be  forgot 
ten,  or  overlooked,  that  the  command  is,  to  "preach  tlie  Gospel  to  every 
creature"  and  that  the  preaching  of  the  word,  however  foolish  it  may 
seem  to  men,  is  the  grand  mean  appointed  by  the  wisdom  of  God  for  the 
saving  conversion  of  the  nations. 

It  is  therefore  matter  of  devout  gratulation,  that  the  missionary  spirit 
is  continually  rising  and  spreading.  And  though  this  Board  is  not  limit 
ed  to  any  geographical  division  of  our  country,  or  to  any  denomination 
of  Christians;  yet  it  will  gratefully  hail  other  societies,  formed  for  the 
same  general  object;  welcome  them  to  a  share  in  this  great  work  of  be 
neficence;  and  reciprocate  with  them  every  affectionate  and  friendly 
office.  The  field  is  wide  enough  for  all.  Let  all,  who  will,  come  for 
ward  to  the  work.  We  cordially  bid  them  God  speed. 


164  REPORT FOREIGN    MISSION    SCHOOL.  1817. 

The  true  missionary  spirit,  is  the  spirit  of  love; — of  that  charity  which 
seeketh  not  her  own — which  envieth  not;  and  it  is  not  the  least  among 
the  blessed  effects  to  be  expected  from  the  diffusion  of  this  spirit,  that 
in  so  far  as  it  prevails,  it  will  break  down  the  barriers  of  party,  destroy 
invidious  distinctions,  and  unite  the  hearts  and  hands  of  Christians  in 
one  glorious  design,  the  spread  of  "THE  COMMON  SALVATION."  The 
prophetic  word  is  sure.  When  the  earth  is  to  be  "filled  with  the  knowl 
edge  of  Jehovah  as  the  waters  cover  the  sea;"  then  "Ephraim  shall  not 
envy  Judah,  and  Judah  shall  not  vex  Ephraim."  Happy  day! — Blessed 
consummation!  Heaven  will  look  down  with  delight;  and  united  Zion 
in  all  her  dwellings  shall  hear  the  majestic  voice,  "Arise,  shine,  for  thy 
light  is  come,  and  the  glory  of  the  LORD  is  risen  upon  thee. — And  the 
gentiles  shall  come  to  thy  light,  and  kings  to  the  brightness  of  thy 
rising.  Lift  up  thine  eyes  round  about  and  see:  all  they  gather  them 
selves  together;  they  come  to  thee:  thy  sons  shall  come  from  far,  and  thy 
daughters  shall  be  nursed  at  thy  side.  Then  shall  thou  see,  and  flow 
together,  and  thine  heart  shall  fear  and  be  enlarged;  because  the  abun 
dance  of  the  sea  shall  be  converted  unto  thee,  the  forces  of  the  gentiles 
shall  come  unto  thee." 

EXTRACTS    FROM    THE    REPORT    OF    THE    AGENTS    OF    THE    FOREIGN 
MISSION    SCHOOL. 

[The  Report  from  which  the  following  extracts  are  made,  was  prepared  by  the  visiting  Com 
mittee  of  the  school,  soon  after  the  semi-annual  visitation,  which  was  on  the  first  Wednesday 
of  September.  The  agents  met  early  in  October,  1816;  and  soon  after  fixed  upon  a  place  for 
the  establishment  of  the  school; — and  subsequently  proceeded  to  appoint  a  principal,  as  is 
stated  in  the  Report  of  the  Prudential  Committee.  As  the  instruction  of  the  youths  in  practi 
cal  agriculture  is  an  important  object  of  the  establishment,  the  agents  appointed  Deacon 
HENRY  HART  of  Goshen,  to  superintend  this  branch  of  business. 

It  is  very  natural  for  the  public,  and  especially  for  the  patrons  of  the  institution,  to  expect  a 
particular  account  of  the  character  of  the  youths,  who  are  patronized.  So  far  as  respects 
the  young  men  themselves,  it  would  perhaps  be  as  well  if  nothing  were  published  concerning 
them;  but,  it  is  to  be  hoped,  that  their  instructors  will  guard  them  against  being  elated  with 
the  favorable  opinion,  which  may  be  formed  of  them,  by  fallible  men,  and  will  press  upon 
them  the  duty  of  humbling  themselves  before  God,  examining  their  hearts  as  in  his  presence, 
and  possessing  such  a  character  as  he  will  approve. 

After  stating  at  large  the  facts,  which  have  been  briefly  adverted  to,  the  Report  proceeds 
as  follows:] 

"The  contracting  committee,  having  received  authority  from  the  Pru 
dential  Committee  of  the  Board,  proceeded  to  purchase  in  Cornwall  two 
dwelling  houses:  one  for  a  boarding  house,  two  stories  high,  newly  finish 
ed  throughout,  and  painted  red;  for  which,  and  five  and  a  half  acres  of 
good  arable  land  adjoining,  and  eighty  acres  of  timber  land  one  mile  dis 
tant,  they  gave  two  thousand  dollars.  The  other  house  is  for  the  Prin 
cipal,  and  is  two  stories  high,  has  two  stacks  of  chimnies,  was  covered 
and  painted  white  on  the  outside,  for  which  and  three  quarters  of  an 
acre  of  land  adjoining  they  gave  six  hundred  dollars.  The  house  has 
since  been  finished  inside,  which  cost  six  hundred  and  twenty-five  dol 
lars  more. 

"The  people  of  Cornwall  gave,  in  consideration  of  the  school  being 
established  there,  a  convenient  academy,  40  feet  by  20,  with  three  apart 
ments,  which  is  near  the  abovementioned  houses.  They  also  gave  thir 
teen  acres  of  wood  land,  a  part  within  a  half  a  mile,  and  the  remainder 
within  a  mile  of  the  academy.  And  they  also  subscribed  in  money  and 
articles  of  clothing  a  considerable  sum.  The  whole  amount  of  donations 


1817.  REPORT. FOREIGN    MISSION    SCHOOL.  165 

from  Cornwall  is  judged  to  be  somewhere  from  eleven  to  thirteen  hun 
dred  dollars.  Deeds  of  the  abovementioned  property  have  been  taken  by 
the  contracting  committee  in  behalf  of  the  Board,  and  having  been  duly 
acknowledged  and  recorded,  are  now  in  possession  of  said  committee* 

"About  the  1st  of  May  last,  the  buildings  having  been  prepared, 
the  school  commenced  its  operations  at  Cornwall  under  the  care  of  Mr. 
Dwight. 

"Soon  after  the  commencement  of  the  school  in  Cornwall,  the  Com 
mittee  received  an  application  from  two  young  men  of  our  own  nation 
to  be  admitted  into  the  school,  for  the  purpose  of  being  educated  for 
missionary  labors  among  the  heathen.  Their  desire  is  to  give  themselves 
up  to  the  Board  to  be  educated  and  disposed  of,  as  to  their  field  and 
station  of  future  labors,  just  as  the  Board  shall  see  fit  to  direct.  The 
name  of  one  is  SAMUEL  RUGGLES,  of  Brookfield,  (Con.)  The  name  of 
the  other,  JAMES  ELY,  a  native  of  Lyme,  (Con.)  They  are  both  of  age 
to  act  for  themselves.  Ruggles  has  been  a  member  of  Morris  Academy 
at  South-Farms,  under  the  instruction  of  the  Rev.  William  R.  Weeks, 
and  is  highly  spoken  of  by  his  instructor.  He  has  gained  a  good  know 
ledge  of  Latin,  and  been  through  several  books  of  the  Greek  Testament. 
Ely  has  been  a  member  of  Bacon  Academy,  Colchester,  (Con.)  He  is 
well  recommended,  and  has  been  through  the  most  of  Virgil.  They  are 
members  in  good  standing  of  the  churches  in  their  native  towns.  They 
are  both  destitute  of  property. 

"The  committee  hesitated,  at  first,  about  their  admission,  but  viewing 
the  hand  of  Providence  in  this  application,  and  recollecting  the  princi 
ples  of  the  Missionary  Seminary  at  Gosport,  (Eng.)  they  deemed  it  their 
duty  to  give  the  young  men  a  trial,  until  the  pleasure  of  the  Board  could 
be  known.  The  committee  wished,  also,  to  acquaint  themselves  more 
fully  with  the  particular  character  and  promise  of  these  young  men. 
They  have  consequently  been  in  the  school  most  of  the  summer;  and  the 
committee  can  now  freely  express  their  decided  approbation  of  these 
young  men,  and  cheerfully  recommend  them  to  the  patronage  of  the 
Board.  They  appear  to  be  pious  and  discreet,  and  to  possess  respecta 
ble  talents.  They  possess,  in  a  high  degree,  a  missionary  spirit,  and 
have,  we  think,  some  peculiar  qualifications  to  be  useful  as  missionaries. 
Their  desire  for  the  missionary  life  appears  to  be  not  a  transient  emotion 
of  youth,  but  a  deliberate  choice,  and  a  settled  principle.  And  we 
believe,  from  all  that  we  can  observe,  that  full  confidence  may  be  placed 
in  their  firmness  and  perseverance.  They  have  had  their  attention  and 
desires,  from  the  first,  turned  to  the  Sandwich  Islands,  though  they  are 
willing  to  abide  the  direction  of  their  patrons.  It  is  not  their  expecta 
tion  that  they  shall  be  sent  to  college,  nor  do  they  aspire  to  the  rank 
of  teachers  or  leaders.  They  expect  to  obtain  such  knowledge  of  the 
sciences  and  of  theology,  as  they  can  in  the  seminary,  and  then  be 
schoolmasters,  catechists,  or  teachers,  as  the  Board  shall  direct.  Ely 
is  a  cooper  by  trade,  which  we  think  an  additional  recommendation. f 

"These  young  men  have  been  extremely  useful  in  the  school.     Their 

*  The  Legislature  of  Connecticut  passed  an  act  last  May,  empowering  the  Board  to  hold  real 
estate  to  a  certain  extent. 

t  The  reader  will  bear  it  in  mind,  that  the  introduction  of  the  mechanical  arts  among  savages 
holds  a  prominent  place  in  every  wise  plan  for  their  civilization. 


166  REPORT. FOREIGN    MISSION    SCHOOL.  1817. 

•example  and  influence  among  the  other  youths  has  been  very  salutary. 
Having  gained  the  entire  confidence  of  the  foreign  boys,  they  keep  them 
from  desiring  other  company,  and  maintain  a  kind  of  influence,  which 
greatly  assists  the  instructor,  and  promotes  the  harmony  of  the  school. 
They  are  also  fast  catching  the  language  of  the  youths,  with  whom  they 
associate,  and  will  soon  be  able  to  converse  in  the  language  of 
Owhyhee.  On  the  whole,  the  committee  cannot  but  express  the  hope 
that  they  shall  be  permitted  to  retain  these  young  men  as  members  of  the 
school. 

"Besides  these  two  young  men,  the  school  now  consists  of  ten  mem 
bers.  Five  of  these  are  the  youths  from  the  Sandwich  Islands;  viz. 
Oboo/ciah,  Hopoo,  Tamoree,  Tennooe  and  Honoree.  Concerning  these 
an  account  is  already  before  the  public.  The  committee  have  it  to  say, 
that  their  conduct,  since  they  have  been  in  the  school,  is  satisfactory. 
Obookiah  has  for  several  years  been  a  professor  of  the  religion  of  Jesus; 
:and  we  are  happy  to  say,  that  his  conduct  and  conversation  have  been 
such  as  become  the  Gospel.  He  appears  to  grow  in  grace,  and  more 
and  more  to  evince  the  reality  of  his  new  birth.  He  has  been  studying 
Latin  chiefly  the  last  summer,  and  has  made  as  good  proficiency  as 
youths  of  our  own  country  ordinarily  do.  Hopoo,  having  for  about  two 
years  entertained  a  hope  in  Christ,  has  been  the  past  summer  admitted 
to  the  first  church  in  Cornwall,  and  received  the  ordinance  of  baptism. 
He  shines  uncommonly  bright  as  a  Christian;  has  the  zeal  of  an  apostle, 
•and  ardently  longs  for  the  time,  when  it  shall  be  thought  his  duty  to 
return  to  his  countrymen  with  the  message  of  Jesus.  His  friends  who 
know  his  feelings,  have  no  doubt  that  Hopoo  would  burn  at  the  stake 
for  the  honor  of  Christ.  Tennooe  and  Honoree  have  given  satisfactory 
-evidence  of  having  passed  from  death  unto  life;  and  should  their  ex 
ample  continue  to  correspond  with  this  judgment,  they  will  probably 
soon  be  admitted  to  confess  Christ  before  men.  Tennooe  and  Hopoo 
are  about  in  the  same  advance  of  study;  they  have  been  attending 
to  English  grammar  and  arithmetic  the  past  summer.  Honoree  has 
been  employed  in  reading  and  spelling,  together  with  exercise  of  the 
pen. 


'[An  account  is  next  given  of  Tamoree,  who,  soon  after  he  joined  the  school,  was  less  submis 
sive  to  authority,  and  less  patient  of  restraint,  than  was  desirable.  The  committee  say,  however, 
that  he  has  "conducted  himself  the  past  summer  much  to  their  satisfaction,"  and  that  "he  has 
.xbeen  obedient  and  respectful."  The  account  concerning  him  concludes  thus:] 


"He  has  uncommon  talents  and  activity,  and  by  the  grace  of  God,  will 
be  eminently  useful.  Considering  the  interest  which  the  Christian  pub 
lic  feel  in  him,  and  the  many  prayers  which  daily  ascend  for  his  conver 
sion,  we  are  cheered  with  the  hope,  that  he  is  a  chosen  vessel  of  God  to 
bear  his  name  among  the  heathen. 

"John  Johnson  is  a  native  of  Calcutta.  His  mother  is  a  Jewess  of  the 
race  of  Black  Jews.  His  father  is  the  son  of  an  English  gentleman  by 
the  name  of  Johnson,  and  a  Hindoo  woman,  whom  he  married  in  India. 
He  is  a  merchant  in  Calcutta,  and  put  his  son  on  board  a  British  vessel 
to  send  him  to  England  for  the  purpose  of  receiving  an  education.  On 
lier  passage  the  vessel  was  captured  by  an  American  privateer,  and  or 
dered  to  New  York;  but  on  her  way  thither  she  was  retaken  by  a  British 


1817.  REPORT FOREIGN    MISSION    SCHOOL.  167 

frigate  and  carried  into  Halifax.  Here  she  was  refitted,  and  sent  on  her 
voyage  to  England.  But  she  fell  in  with  an  American  frigate,  and  was 
taken  and  sent  into  New  York.  From  this  place  Johnson  and  the  crew 
were  put  on  board  a  cartel,  and  ordered  to  England  as  prisoners  of  war. 
But  touching  at  Grenada,  in  the  West  Indies,  Johnson  took  the  yellow 
fever.  His  case  being  considered  hopeless,  and  the  cartel  about  to  sail, 
the  captain,  fearing  the  infection,  and  knowing  Johnson  to  be  a  friend 
less  stranger,  ordered  him  to  be  wrapped  in  a  blanket,  and  laid  on  the 
beach  to  die.  Here  he  was  found  by  a  gentleman  of  the  island,  who, 
with  his  lady,  was  taking  an  evening  walk  on  the  beach.  The  gentle 
man,  learning  his  situation,  ordered  his  servants  to  take  Johnson  to  his 
house.  Here  by  seasonable  aid  and  nursing  he  soon  recovered,  and  was 
then  left  to  go  whither  he  pleased.  Not  finding  a  ready  passage  to  Eng 
land,  he  went  on  board  an  American  vessel,  and  came  directly  to  Derby, 
(Ct.)  From  this  place  he  went  to  live  with  the  Rev.  Nathaniel  G.  Hunt- 
ington  of  Woodbridge;  and  when  the  Foreign  Mission  School  was  open 
ed,  he  was  sent  on  to  the  committee  and  admitted  a  member.  Johnson 
is  a  Mohammedan  by  habit,  and  when  he  first  joined  the  school  was  very 
bigoted,  usually  saying  his  prayers  to  the  prophet  four  times  a  day.  But 
his  attachment  to  this  way  has  evidently  much  declined.  He  now  begins 
to  doubt  the  divine  mission  of  Mohammed;  and  is  willing  to  hear  him  call 
ed  an  impostor.  He  manifests  a  great  reverence  for  the  Scriptures,  and 
a  great  desire  to  read  them,  which  he  is  just  beginning  to  do.  His 
progress  has  as  yet  been  moderate,  and  his  talents  are  not  of  the  most 
lively  cast.  Yet  he  is  diligent  and  studious.  And  considering  the  re 
markable  leadings  of  Providence  by  which  he  has  been  placed  under  our 
care,  we  cannot  but  hope  he  is  designed  to  be  an  instrument  of  good  in 
some  station.  Johnson  speaks  the  Arabic  and  Hebrew  languages  with 
ease,  and  is,  we  think,  an  important  acquisition  on  this  account.  He- 
knows  Dr.  Carey,  and  has  heard  him  preach:  and  says  the  Doctor  passes 
by  his  father's  door  every  Sabbath  in  going  to  church. 

"John  Windall  is,  according  to  his  own  account,  a  native  of  the  prov 
ince  of  Bengal,  born  about  30  miles  from  Calcutta.  He  early  entered  on 
board  a  vessel,  and  has  since  followed  the  seas  in  vessels  of  different 
nations.  When  the  late  war  commenced  he  was  thrown  out  of  employ^ 
being  in  this  country;  and  on  this  account  found  it  necessary  to  apply 
himself  to  labor  for  a  subsistence.  He  came  from  New  York  to  the 
western  part  of  Connecticut,  and  was  finally  taken  up  by  the  Rev.  D.  A. 
Clark  of  Southbury,  and  after  a  short  residence  with  him  he  came  into 
the  hands  of  the  agents. 

"Windall  is  steady  and  free  from  vicious  habits,  though  not  religious. 
He  is  anxious  to  learn,  and  persevering  in  his  exertions,  though  his  tal 
ents  are  of  the  moderate  cast  and  his  progress  slow.  He  began  with  his 
letters  and  is  now  able  to  read  sentences  in  the  Bible. 

"George  Sandwich  is  a  native  of  the  Sandwich  Islands,  and  came  to 
America  when  very  young.  Since  his  arrival  in  this  country,  till  the  last 
spring,  he  has  lived  principally  in  Enfield,  (Mass.)  When  he  was  re 
ceived  to  the  school  last  spring,  he  scarcely  knew  the  alphabet,  and  had, 
by  his  own  account,  lived  in  a  thoughtless  manner.  Soon  after  he  joined 
the  school,  he  became  apparently  deeply  impressed  with  the  concerns  of 
his  soul.  His  concern  continued  to  increase  until,  to  use  his  own  ex- 


168  REPORT FOREIGN    MISSION    SCHOOL.  1817. 

pression,  "all  the  sins  he  ever  committed  came  and  stood  before  him." 
He  has  since  manifested  new  views  and  feelings,  and  gives  very  comfort 
ing  evidence  of  a  change  of  heart.  He  is  naturally  of  a  very  amiable 
friendly  disposition,  and  has  acquired  habits  of  industry  and  economy. 
His  talents  are  good,  and  his  improvement  very  encouraging.  The  com 
mittee  consider  him  one  of  the  most  promising  members  of  the  school. 

"  William  Kummoolah  is  a  native  of  the  Sandwich  Islands.  He  came 
with  Capt.  Robert  Edes  to  Charlestown,  (Mass.)  last  year.  He  is  a 
youth  of  about  17  years.  He  can  speak  but  little  of  our  language  yet, 
and  is  gradually  learning  to  read  and  spell.  To  use  the  language  of  his 
instructor;  "William  is  a  lovely  boy.  He  is  remarkably  amiable  and 
affectionate.  He  has,  during  the  past  summer,  evidently  been  the  sub 
ject  of  religious  exercises  of  some  kind;  though  from  ignorance  of  our 
language  he  is  unable  to  give  an  account  of  them.  He  has  derived  great 
advantage  from  his  serious  companions,  who  could  converse  and  pray 
with  him  in  his  own  tongue." 

"Simon  Annance  is  from  one  of  the  Indian  tribes  in  Canada.  He  has 
been  taken  into  the  school  on  trial,  and  has  so  lately  entered  that  the 
Committee  have  not  had  an  opportunity  to  form  any  settled  opinion  con 
cerning  him;  neither  have  they  any  thing  very  interesting  to  state.  If 
he  should  be  continued  in  the  school,  we  hope  hereafter  to  give  a  more 
detailed  account  of  him. 

"Other  students  might  have  been  admitted;  but  the  state  of  the  school 
and  of  our  accommodations  would  not  permit.  As  soon  as  we  can  com 
plete  our  establishment,  and  the  Principal  arrives,  we  hope  to  be  able  to 
receive  a  considerable  addition  to  our  present  number.  We  can  have 
students,  as  fast  as  we  can  accommodate  them  and  support  them.  Sev 
eral  are  now  waiting  for  permission  to  join  the  school. 

"The  semi-annual  examination  of  the  school  took  place  before  the 
visiting  committee,  on  the  first  Wednesday  of  September  .instant,  at  nine 
o'clock,  A.  M.  It  was  an  interesting  occasion.  Several  of  the  neigh 
boring  clergy  and  a  number  of  ladies,  who  -have  taken  an  interest  in 
these  youths,  attended.  The  students  acquitted  themselves  to  the  satis 
faction  of  all  present.  Their  accuracy  in  grammar  and  arithmetic,  and 
the  handsome  specimens  of  their  penmanship,  which  were  exhibited, 
were  particularly  remarkable.  In  spelling  they  found  the  greatest  diffi 
culty. 

"In  the  afternoon,  an  interesting  discourse,  adapted  to  the  occasion, 
was  delivered  in  the  meeting  house  by  the  Rev.  Mr.  Prentice,  from  Matt, 
xiii.  16,  17.  After  the  sermon,  the  Committee  attended  in  the  academy, 
to  hear  the  register  of  behavior  for  the  term,  and  to  distribute  two 'pre 
miums  to  the  highest  on  the  register.  On  examination,  it  appeared  that 
the  first  premium  belonged  to  Tamoree,  and  the  second  to  Hopoo.  It 
ought,  however,  to  be  stated,  that  Obookiah,  and  the  two  American 
youths,  not  being  present  at  the  beginning  of  the  term,  no  account  was 
opened  with  them. 

"The  students,  after  a  short  recess,  will  spend  the  vacation  in  prepar 
ing  wood  for  winter. 

"As  to  the  expenses  of  the  school,  they  have  necessarily  been  greater 
at  the  outset,  than  will  hereafter  be  the  case.  Many  articles  of  furniture 
and  implements  of  husbandry  and  articles  of  bedding  have  been  necessa- 


1817.  REPORT FOREIGN   MISSION    SCHOOL.  169 

ry,  which  we  shall  not  have  to  furnish  every  year.  The  school  was  set 
up  at  a  time  when  provisions  wete  universally  scarce  and  high.  And 
many  repairs  and  conveniences  about  the  buildings  were  found  necessary, 
which  have  swelled  the  bill  of  expenses. 

"The  expenses  we  hope  will  diminish  as  we  are  enabled  to  take  ad 
vantage  of  circumstances.  The  young  men  in  the  school  all  labored,  in 
their  turn,  a  part  of  the  time.  They  have  cultivated  four  acres  of  corn, 
which  is  promising;  and  about  three  acres  of  potatoes;  and  secured  some 
hay.  The  committee  hope  to  be  able  to  extend  the  farming  business 
next  season,  so  that  each  student  will,  by  laboring  two  days  in  a  week, 
nearly  earn  his  food.  Arrangements  are  making  in  many  neighboring 
towns,  among  benevolent  females,  to  supply  clothing  for  the  school;  and 
we  think  a  competent  supply  will  in  this  way  be  shortly  afforded.  The 
committee  have  to  acknowledge  particular  obligations  for  liberal  aid  in 
this  way  from  benevolent  females  in  New  Haven,  Litchfield,  Goshen, 
South-Farms,  Cornwall,  East-Guilford,  Nor th-Guil ford,  Hadlyme,  and 
Stockbridge,  (Mass.) 

[After  making  se'veral  inquiries,  with  respect  to  the  domestic  affairs  of  the  school,  and  sug 
gesting-,  whether  it  would  not  be  best  to  have  some  of  the  youths  study  physic  and  surgery,  (ihe 
professors  of  the  medical  institution  at  New  Haven  offering  to  permit  them  to  attend  lectures 
gratis,)  the  committee  conclude  as  follows:] 

"The  committee  cannot  conclude  this  report  without  expressing  the 
satisfaction  they  feel  in  this  institution,  and  the  growing  interest  taken  in 
it  by  the  Christian  public  in' this  region.  The  plan  of  the  school  meets 
with  universal  approbation;  and  the  conduct  of  the  students  has  been  so 
regular  and  respectable  as  to  gain  the  confidence  and  affection,  not  only 
of  the  people  of  Cornwall,  but  of  all  the  surrounding  towns.  Hitherto 
the  Lord  hath  helped  us.  His  hand  has  been  conspicuous  in  every  stage 
of  the  institution.  And  when  we  look  forward,  the  most  encouraging 
prospects  are  presented.  We  hope  ere  long  to  see  this  small  stream  be 
come  a  river,  which  shall  make  glad  the  city  of  our  God  We  long  to 
see  the  dear  youth  under  our  care  departing  to  set  up  the  standard  of 
Jesus  in  the  land  of  their  nativity.  We  long  to  see  them  on  the  way  to 
their  kindred  after  the  flesh,  laden  with  the  richest  blessing  that  man 
ever  received;  bearing  the  most  joyful  message  man  ever  heard.  May 
God  hasten  the  time  when  the  Board  will  see  the  way  open  to  establish  a 
mission  in  the  Sandwich  Islands. 

"The  late  glorious  events  at  the  Society  Isles,  particularly  at  Otaheite 
and  Eimeo,  make  our  hearts  burn  with  desire  and  expectation  of  witness 
ing  the  same  triumphs  of  the  cross  at  Owhyhee  and  Woahoo.  From,  all 
accounts  we  receive,  this  field  is  already  white  to  the  harvest.  Oh  may 
the  laborers,  whom  God  is  raising  up,  soon  be  prepared  to  thrust  in  their 
sickles  and  reap. 

"The  committee  pray  that  the  Board  may  enjoy  the  presence  of  God 
in  their  present  meeting,  and  that  the  blessing  of  many  ready  to  perish 
may  come  upon  them. 

"Signed  by  order,  JAMES  MORRIS,   Chairman" 

"Cornwall,  (Ct.)  Sept.  2,  1817. 


22 


170  PECUNIARY   ACCOUNTS.  1817. 


PECUNIARY  ACCOUNTS. 

Tile    American    Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missionsf  in  account  current  with 
Jeremiah  Evarts,  their   Treasurer,   Dr. 

To  cash  paid  from  Sept.  1, 1816,  to  August  31,  1817,  in  conformity  to  orders  of  the  Board, 

and  of  the  Prudential  Committee/  from  No.  150  to  No.  210,  both  inclusive,  $20,461  39 

Losses  by  counterfeit  and  altered   bills,  and  by  bad  or  deficient  coin,  remitted 

•Jonations  during  the  year,  -  -  -  -  -  23  32 

Balance  carried  to  the  credit  of  the  Board  in  new  account,  Sept.  1, 1817,  53,841  61 

$74,326  32 

Contra  Cr. 

By  balance  brought  to  the  credit  of  the  Board  in  new  account,  Sept.  1,  1816,  as  appears  by 
the  Auditor's  certificate  of  Sept.  4, 1816,  ....  $44,277  69 

By  cash  received  in  donations,  as  published  particularly  in  the  Panoplist,  be 
tween  Sept,  1,  1816,  and  Aug.  31,  1817,  $27,225  66 

By  cash  received  as  interest  of  money  and  income  of  stock,  dur 
ing  the  year  past;  viz.  on  account  of  the  Norris  Legacy,      $2,251  75 

On  other  funds,  553  29—2,805  04 

By  gain  on  a  small  bill  of  exchange  on  London,  -  2  93 

By  the  avails  of  the  Narrative  of  Five  Youths  sold,  15  00 17  93 30,048  63 


M  I JV  U  T  E  S 


NINTH    ANNUAL      MEETING 


THE  ninth  annual  meeting  of  the  American  Board  of  Commissioners 
for  Foreign  Missions,  was  held  in  the  Philosophical  Chamber  of  Yale 
College,  Sept.  10th  and  llth,  1818.  Present, 

Rev.  JOSEPH  LYMAN,  D.  D. 
Rev,  SAMUEL  SPRING,  D.  D. 
Rev.  SETH  PAYSON,  D.  D. 
Hon.  STEPHEN  VAN  RENSSELAER, 
Hon.  JOHN  HOOKER, 
Rev.  JEDIDIAH  MORSE,  D.  D. 
Rev.  CALVIN  CHAPIN,  D.  D. 
Rev.  JESSE  APPLETON,  D.  D. 
Rev.  ALEXANDER  PROUDFIT,  D.  D. 
Rev.  ELIPHALET  NOTT,  D.  D. 
Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  D.  D. 
Rev.  HENRY  DAVIS,  D.  D. 
Rev.  JEREMIAH  DAY,  L.  L.  D.  and 
JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq. 

The  meeting  was  opened  with  prayer  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Appleton;  and, 
on  the  following  day,  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Lyman. 

The  accounts  of  the  Treasurer  were  exhibited,  as  examined  and  certi 
fied  by  the  Auditor,  and  accepted. 

The  Report  of  the  Prudential  Committee,  was  read,  and  accepted. 

At  3  o'clock,  P.  M.  on  Thursday,  the  10th,  a  sermon  was  delivered,  ac 
cording  to  previous  appointment,  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Spring,  at  the  first 
church,  from  Acts  viii.  30,  31. 

Resolved,  That  the  Recording  Secretary,  Mr.  Evarts,  and  Dr.  Morse, 
present  the  thanks  of  this  Board  to  the  Rev.  Dr.  Spring  for  his  sermon 
delivered  by  appointment  of  the  Board,  and  that  they  request  a  copy  for 
publication. 

A  report  was  communicated  from  the  visiting  committee  of  the  Mission 
School  among  the  Cherokees.  Sundry  other  documents  on  the  subject 
of  that  school  were  also  exhibited. 

The  Hon.  WILLIAM  REED,  of  Marblehead,  (Mass.)  the  Rev.  ZEPHA- 
NIAH  S.  MOORE,  D.  D.  President  of  Williams  College,  the  Hon. 
CHARLES  MARSH,  of  Woodstock,  (Vt.)  and  Col.  JOHN  LINCKLAEN, 
of  Cazenovia,  (N.  Y.)  were  unanimously  elected  members  of  the  Board. 


172  MINUTES  OF  THE  BOARD.  1818. 

Resolved,  That  this  Board  cherish  a  very  affectionate  and  grateful 
sense  of  the  faithful,  zealous,  and  highly  important  services  of  the  Rev. 
Elias  Cornelius  as  an  Agent  of  the  Board,  for  a  length  of  time,  and  for 
various  purposes;  and  that  the  Corresponding  Secretary  communicate  to 
him  this  cordial  testimonial. 

The  officers  of  the  Board  are  as  follows;  viz. 

The  Hon.  JOHN  TREADWELL,  Esq.  President. 
Rev.  SAMUEL  SPRING,  D.  D.    Vice  President. 
Rev.  Dr.  SPRING, 

Rev.  Dr.  WORCESTER,  !  „     7^-7^ 

-r,        r>      TU  }>  Prudential  Committee. 

Rev.  Dr.  MORSE, 

Mr.  EVARTS,   and 

Mr.  REED, 

Rev.  Dr.  WORCESTER,  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Rev.  Dr.  CHAPIN,  Recording  Secretary. 

JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq.   Treasurer,  and 

Mr.  ASHUR  ADAMS,    Auditor. 

A  memorial  was  communicated  from  the  executive  committee  of  the 
Agency  for  the  Foreign  Mission  School,  on  the  subject  of  sending 
an  agent  to  the  Sandwich  Islands,  to  prepare  the  way  for  establishing 
a  mission  upon  those  Islands,  and  was  referred  to  the  Prudential  Com 
mittee. 

Resolved,  That  the  next  annual  meeting  of  the  Board  shall  be 
in  Boston,  Mass,  on  the  third  Wednesday  of  September,  1819,  at  ten 
o'clock,  A.  M. 

A  committee  having  been  appointed  at  the  last  meeting  of  the  Board 
to  devise  means  for  an  effectual  discharge  of  the  duties  of  the  Corres 
ponding  Secretary;  and  said  Committee  having  proposed  such  measures 
as  they  deemed  proper,  and  referred  the  same  to  the  Prudential  Com 
mittee;  the  last  named  Committee  made  a  Report  to  the  Board,  which 
was  accepted. 

Resolved,  That  the  Prudential  Committee  be  directed  to  express  the 
thanks  of  this  Board  to  all  societies,  congregations,  churches,  and  indi 
viduals  who  have  contributed,  within  the  year  past,  to  the  benevolent 
objects,  for  which  the  Board  was  incorporated. 

Resolved,  That  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Prudential  Committee 
to  compile  and  publish  a  report,  including  their  report  for  the  last  year; 
the  report  from  the  Agency  for  the  Foreign  Mission  School;  an  abstract 
of  the  Treasurer's  accounts;  a  detail  of  donations;  extracts  from  minutes 
of  the  present  session;  and  such  other  information  as  they  shall  judge 
expedient. 

The  Rev.  Dr.  Payson  having  been  chosen  to  preach  the  next  an 
nual  sermon,  the  Rev.  Dr.  Nott  was  chosen  to  preach  in  case  of  his 
failure. 

The  Recording  Secretary  was  directed  to  present  the  thanks  of  the 
Board  to  the  President  and  Fellows  of  Yale  College,  for  the  use  of 
the  Philosophical  Chamber;  to  those  persons,  whose  hospitality  had 
been  experienced  by  the  members,  during  the  session;  and  to  the 
choirs  of  singers  for  their  acceptable  services  in  the  public  religious 
exercises. 

On  the  evening  of  the  llth,  extracts  from  the  Report  of  the  Prudential 
Committee  were  read  in  public  to  a  respectable  audience. 


1818.  REPORT.  173 


REPORT. 

BRETHREN, — By  the  lapse  of  each  brief  year,  we  are  brought  percep 
tibly  nearer  to  those  bright  and  gladdening  scenes,  to  which,  with  sure 
direction,  all  things  are  tending.  Attuned  to  millennial  strains,  the 
prophetic  lyre  has  cheered  long  ages  of  darkness,  and  waked  the  chil 
dren  of  Zion,  in  successive  generations,  to  hope,  and  prayer,  and  joyous 
anticipation.  The  hopes  were  not  fallacious;  the  prayers  have  been 
heard  on  high;  the  anticipations  are  beginning  to  be  realized  with  aug 
menting  joy.  God  has  arisen  to  have  mercy  on  Zion;  for  the  time  to 
favor  her,  yea,  the  set  time  is  come.  Her  children  are  at  length  aroused 
to  action;  and  as  they  advance,  the  opening  and  brightening  prospects 
inspire  them  with  fresh  and  increasing  animation.  Blessed  are  our 
eyes,  for  they  see;  and  our  ears,  for  they  hear.  Thanks  be  unto  HIM, 
who,  hath  the  times  and  the  seasons  in  his  own  hand,  that  ours  is  a  day 
so  auspicious:  that  to  us  the  high  privilege  is  granted  of  bearing  a  part 
iii  the  arduous,  glorious  work  of  such  a  day;  and  that  we  are  not  without 
assurance  that  our  labor  has  not  been,  and  will  not  be,  in  vain. 

In  what  is  now  to  be  submitted,  in  the  way  of  annual  Report,  your 
Committee  will  observe  the  method  which  they  have  heretofore  adopted: 
passing  in  review,  first,  our  establishments  abroad  in  their  order,  and  then 
our  operations  and  objects  of  attention  at  home. 

BOMBAY. — At  our  last  anniversary  the  Rev.  John  Nichols  and  the 
Rev.  Allen  Graves,  who,  together  with  others,  had  then  recently  been 
set  apart  by  solemn  consecration,  and  received  the  right  hand  of  fellow 
ship  that  they  should  go  unto  the  heathen,  were  mentioned  as  being 
"destined  for  India  to  strengthen  our  stations  there,"  and  soon  to  take 
their  departure.  Arrangements  were  accordingly  made  for  the  purpose 
with  all  convenient  despatch;  and  on  the  5th  of  October,  they  with  their 
wives,  and  Miss  Philomela  Thurston,  who,  with  the  express  approbation 
of  your  Committee,  was  sacredly  affianced  to  the  Rev.  Mr.  Newell,  em 
barked  at  Charlestovvn,  on  board  the  ship  Sacofor  Bombay.  During  the 
scenes  of  preparation  and  departure; — in  their  various  conversations  and 
attentions,  in  receiving  the  instructions,  counsels  and  exhortations  of  the 
Committee;  and  in  taking  final  leave  of  their  country  and  friends,  they 
severally  manifested  a  spirit  of  love  and  of  a  sound  mind, — of  enlightened 
self-renunciation,  devotion  to  Christ,  confidence  in  his  all-sufficiency,  and 
desire  to  make  known  his  salvation  among  the  heathen,  which  gave  a 
highly  satisfactory  promise  of  fidelity  and  usefulness.  And  with  many 
prayers  and  tears,  they  were  affectionately  and  fervently  commended  to 
God  and  to  the  word  of  his  grace. 

It  is  the  pleasurable  office  of  gratitude  to  record,  that  the  Hon.  William 
Gray,  in  a  very  obliging  manner,  declined  receiving  any  remuneration 
for  the  excellent  accommodations,  and  abundant  supply  of  substantial 
provisions,  afforded  to  the  missionaries  for  their  passage  in  his  ship. 
And  in  furnishing  them  with  various  articles  for  their  convenience, 
health,  and  comfort,  benevolent  individuals  in  Charlestown  and  Boston, 
shewed  a  liberality  and  love  to  the  cause  very  gratifying  to  be  remem 
bered. 


174  REPORT.  1818, 

Wafted,  for  the  most  part,  by  favorable  winds,  and  under  the  guardian 
care  of  Him,  who  rules  the  raging  of  the  sea,  the  Saco,  arrived  at  Bombay 
on  the  23d  of  February.  Excepting  Mrs.  Nichols,  whose  sufferings 
from  sea  sickness  appe-ar  to  have  been  unusual  in  degree,  and  still  more  so 
in  duration,  the  missionaries,  while  crossing  the  wide  waters,  enjoyed  a 
good  measure  of  health.  And  united  in  fervent  affection, — favored,  at 
the  proper  seasons  with  the  privileges  of  prayer  and  preaching, — and 
engaged  daily  in  studies  and  exercises,  according  to  rules  early  adopted, 
for  the  improvement  of  their  own  minds  and  hearts,  and  for  the  benefit  of 
the  mariners, — they  passed  the  greater  part  of  their  time  on  board  not 
unpleasantly,  and,  it  is  hoped,  not  unprofitably. 

By  the  brethren  and  sisters  at  Bombay  they  were  welcomed,  with  af 
fectionate  tenderness  and  grateful  joy.  "The  same  day,"  say  these 
brethren  in  a  letter  to  the  Corresponding  Secretary,  "one  of  us  waited  on 
the  governor  with  your  letter  to  him.  He  received  it,  and  shortly  after 
in  a  personal  interview,  spoke  of  it,  and  also  of  our  mission,  in  expres 
sions  of  his  accustomed  liberality  and  kindness.  The  second  day  after 
this  interview,  one  of  us  again  waited  on  his  excellency,  with  the  breth 
ren  Nichols  and  Graves.  They  were  kindly  received  by  his  excellency, 
who  said  that  he  had  that  morning  written  to  the  Court  of  Directors  in 
favor  of  their  settlement  here." 

In  a  joint  communication  of  March  28th,  Messrs.  Nichols  and  Graves 
express  their  grateful  sense  of  their  obligations  to  divine  goodness,  in 
the  following  terms.  "While  reviewing  the  catalogue  of  mercies  we  have 
experienced,  since  we  left  our  native  land,  we  are  constrained  to  make  a 
renewed  consecration  of  ourselves  to  our  covenant  God:  we  are  bound  to 
take  the  cup  of  salvation  and  call  upon  his  name.  Whether  we  remem 
ber  the  kindness  of  our  Christian  friends  in  America;  the  unremitting 
assiduity  of  the  Prudential  Committee  in  providing  for  our  comfort  while  on 
the  ocean;  the  measure  of  health  which  most  of  our  number  have  enjoyed; 
or  our  favorable  reception  at  this  place;  we  have  equal  occasion  for  grat 
itude  and  praise.  Were  the  inquiry  to  be  made,  "Lacked  ye  anything?" 
— we  would  reply — "Nothing." 

In  the  instructions  given  them  by  your  Committee,  Mr.  Nichols  was 
directed  to  settle  at  Bombay,  provided  the  door  should  be  opened  to  him 
there;  and  Mr.  Graves  to  proceed  thence  to  Ceylon;  unless,  in  the  con 
current  judgment  of  the  brethren  at  Bombay,  "particular  circumstances 
should  render  it  expedient  for  him  to  abide  with  them."  As  soon  as  con 
venient  after  their  arrival,  the  question  of  their  location  was  deliberately 
considered;  and  it  was  determined  with  entire  unanimity,  and  upon 
grounds  satisfactory  to  your  Committee,  that  it  was  expedient  for  both  of 
them  to  remain  in  connection  with  the  mission  at  Bombay:  one  of  them 
to  occupy  a  station  at  Mahim,  on  the  northern  part  of  the  island  of  Bom 
bay,  and  the  other  at  Tanna,  on  the  island  of  Salsette. 

With  the  same  unanimity  the  station  at  Mahim  was  assigned  to  Mr. 
Graves;  and  from  that  place  under  date  of  March  27th,  Mr.  Graves 
writes:  "Our  separation  would  not  be  so  far  that  we  could  not  occasion 
ally  consult  and  assist  each  other.  They  had  already  two  schools  at 
Mahim,  and  two  or  three  in  its  vicinity,  so  distant  that  it  was  tedious  to 
superintend  them:  and  they  judged  it  as  easy  for  me  to  attain  the  lan 
guage  here  as  in  Bombay,  having  intercourse  only  with  natives.  Ac- 


1818.  REPORT.  175 

cordingly,  myself  and  wife  removed  to  this  place  on  the  7th  inst.  We 
are  about  six  miles  from  the  brethren,  and  seven  or  eight  from  the  fort 
of  Bombay;  and,  owing  to  the  difficulty  and  expense  of  any  mode  of  con 
veyance,  and  the  danger  of  walking  so  far  in  this  climate,  neither  of  us 
can  frequently  meet  with  the  brethren  in  their  religious  exercises;  so  that 
we  spend  most  of  our  Sabbaths  with  ourselves  alone,  attending  religious 
exercises  at  the  usual  time.  We  are  truly  happy  in  our  condition.  The 
place  contains  nineteen  thousand  souls;  the  immediate  vicinity  is  also 
populous;  and  it  is  but  about  half  a  mile  across  to  a  thick  population  on 
Salsette.  You  see  then,  dear  Sir,  that  we  need  nothing  but  faithfulness 
and  the  divine  blessing  to  make  us  useful.  For  these  we  trust  our  Chris 
tian  friends  will  ever  pray  in  our  behalf. — Mrs,  Graves  is  attempting  to 
instruct  in  English  a  number  of  Portuguese  and  Hindoo  boys  in  our 
Verandah." 

On  the  llth  of  March,  Mr.  Nichols  visited  Tanna,  in  company  with 
Mr.  Newell;  and  was  courteously  received  by  the  magistrate,  Mr.  Bab- 
ington,  who  remarked  to  him,  that  there  was  on  the  island  a  very  wide 
field  for  usefulness.3'  The  island  of  Salsette,  formerly  separated  from 
the  northern  part  of  the  island  of  Bombay  by  a  narrow  strait,  but  now 
connected  with  it  by  a  causeway,  contains  a  population  of  about  sixty 
thousand, — Hindoos,  Parsees,  Jews  and  Portuguese,  but  chiefly  Hindoos, 
— in  a  deplorably  abject  and  wretched  condition.  Tanna  is  the  chief 
town;  is  distant  from  the  mission  house  at  Bombay  about  25  miles;  and 
commands  the  passage,  (about  a  furlong  broad,)  from  the  island  to  the 
neighboring  continent,  where  the  principal  language,  both  of  Bombay 
and  Salsette  is  common  to  a  population  of  about  nine  millions.  Mr. 
Nichols  appears  to  have  been  pleased  with  the  place,  as  a  missionary 
station;  and  calculated  on  fixing  his  residence  there,  after  spending  a 
few  months  in  studying  the  language  with  the  brethren  at  Bombay. 

"The  occupying  of  these  two  stations,"  say  the  previously  settled 
brethren,  "we  consider  a  great  and  promising  advancement  of  our  mis 
sion.  It  will  give  a  much  wider  range  to  our  operations,  and  enable  us, 
almost  immediately,  to  carry  our  schooling  system  to  a  much  greater  ex 
tent,  and  also  the  dissemination  of  the  various  productions  of  our  press; 
and,  in  a  little  time,  with  a  divine  blessing,  it  will  extend  the  preaching 
of  the  gospel  to  a  great  population,  who  are  almost  beyond  the  reach  of 
the  establishment  at  Bombay.  We  feel  highly  grateful  and  joyful  that 
these  two  places  are,  under  such  encouraging  circumstances,  occupied 
by  the  missionaries  of  the  Board;  and  we  cannot  but  believe  that  the 
event  will  be  equally  joyous  to  all  the  members  of  the  Board.  We  would 
render  unfeigned  thanksgiving  and  praise  to  our  most  blessed  God,  who 
has  dealt  so  mercifully  with  us,  and  who  has  shewn  so  many  tokens  of 
favor  to  this  mission." 

On  the  26th  of  March,  the  marriage  of  Mr.  Newell  to  Miss  Thurston 
was  solemnized;  and  of  the  accessions  to  the  mission  the  brethren  speak 
in  terms  of  high  and  grateful  satisfaction.  "Sixteen  months  ago,"  they 
say,  "the  mission  consisted  of  but  two  persons.  No,w  there  are  twelve, 
including  two  infant  children  Surely  God  has  greatly  enlarged  us;  and 
we  would  bless  his  holy  name  forever." 

In  the  course  of  the  last  autumn  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Bard  well  were  visited 
with  heavy  affliction;  first  in  the  death  of  their  infant  son,  and  then,  about 
two  months  afterwards,  in  the  severe  and  very  dangerous  sickness  of  Mr. 


176  REPORT.  1818. 

Bardwell  himself.  But  the  Lord  was  gracious;  and  the  life  of  his  greatly 
beloved  servant  was  precious  in  his  sight.  Blessed  be  his  holy  name. 

Beside  these- painful  domestic  visitations,  from  the  20th  of  May,  1817, 
the  latest  date  reported  at  our  last  anniversary,  to  the  6th  of  April  of  the 
present  year,  the  latest  date  to  be  reported  at  this  time,  the  mission  sus 
tained  no  special  adversity;  but  was  constantly  advancing  in  its  opera 
tions,  with  encouraging  prosperity.  Of  the  system  of  its  operations, 
the  principal  parts  are  preaching,  printing,  and  dispersing  portions  of 
the  Scriptures  and  other  books  and  tracts,  and  the  instruction  of  chil 
dren  in  schools. 

Their  manner  of  preaching  was  reported  the  last  year  with  consider 
able  particularity.  It  continues  much  the  same.  It  is  not  to  congrega 
tions,  regularly  convened  for  the  purpose  at  set  times  and  places:  but 
"Wisdom  crieth  without;  she  uttereth  her  voice  in  the  streets.  She 
crieth  in  the  chief  place  of  concourse;  in  the  openings  of  the  gates;  by 
the  way,  in  the  places  of  the  paths;  at  the  coming  in  at  the  doors,  in 
the  city  she  uttereth  her  words."  Every  day  our  indefatigable  mission 
aries  are  engaged  in  this,  which  they  justly  consider  as  the  first  and 
highest  part  of  their  work;  addressing  themselves,  as  they  find  opportu 
nity,  to  individuals,  to  families,  to  assemblages,  small  and  large,  on 
various  occasions,  and  at  different  places — especially  on  sacred  occa 
sions  and  at  the  temples  of  dumb  idols;  calling  upon  the  deluded  vota 
ries  to  turn  from  these  vanities  unto  the  living  God,  and  pointing  them 
to  the  fountain  opened  for  sin,  and  for  all  uncleanness." 

Before  the  arrival  of  Mr.  Graves,  now  stationed  at  Mahim,  Mr.  New 
ell  spent  several  weeks  at  that  place,  "where  he  preached  the  Gospel  to 
many  who  never  heard  it  before."  And  besides  preaching  to  the  na 
tives  in  the  language  of  the  country,  the  brethren  have  statedly,  during 
the  year,  preached  in  English,  at  the  mission  house  on  the  Sabbath,  and 
at  the  Fort  on  Thursday  evening. 

With  ardent  hope,  they  look  forward  to  the  time  when,  by  the  free 
will  offerings  of  Christians  dwelling  at  home  in  their  ceiled  houses,  and 
enjoying  the  fulness  of  blessings  with  which  the. God  of  all  grace  has  so 
richly  endowed  his  American  Zion,  they  will  be  enabled  to  erect  a 
house  for  his  name,  for  his  stated  worship,  and  for  the  public  exhibition 
of  his  great  salvation,  among  the  heathen  with  whom  they  sojourn,  and 
when,  in  that  land  of  darkness  and  of  the  shadow  of  death;  He  will 
find  a  habitation,  where  He  will  delight  to  appear  in  his  glory,  to  bless 
the  provisions  of  his  house,  and  to  fill  the  famishing — perishing  poor 
with  bread. 

In  the  Report  of  last  year,  it  was  stated  that,  with  almost  unexampled 
diligence,  and  pains,  and  perseverance,  they  had  gotten  their  printing 
press  into  operation,  and  printed  fifteen  hundred  copies  of  a  Scripture 
tract,  of  eight  pages  octavo,  in  the  Mahratta  language.  They  have 
since  printed  a  large  edition  of  the  Gospel  of  Matthew,  of  the  Acts  of 
the  Apostles,  and  of  another  tract  consisting  of  select  portions  of  Scrip 
ture;  all  of  which  are  translations  made  by  themselves  into  the  same  lan 
guage.  They  had  also  at  their  last  date,  commenced  the  printing  of  a 
book,  which  they  had  prepared  for  their  schools.  Specimens  of  their 
work  have  been  sent  home,  and  have  been  pronounced  by  competent 
judges  here  to  be  in  a  good  style  of  execution. 


1818.  REPORT.  177 

"The  translation  and  printing  of  the  Scriptures  entire,"  they  say, 
"we  calculate  to  continue  until  the  whole  shall  be  completed,  should  we 
live  so  long;  but  in  the  mean  time,  we  intend  to  prepare  and  print,  in 
a  series  of  tracts  or  numbers,  an  abridgement  of  the  Bible  in  the  regular 
order  of  events.  The  first  number,  embracing  the  history  of  the  period 
from  the  creation  to  the  flood,  is  now  ready  tor  the  press,  and  will  be 
printed  soon.  The  whole  work  will  make  a  volume  of  200  or  300  pages 
octavo.  They  have  engaged  besides,  to  print  an  edition  of  the  Gospel  of 
Matthew,  for  the  Bombay  Bible  Society. 

Before  they  commenced  printing  themselves,  they  had  procured  5000 
copies  of  a  tract  in  the  Guzerattee  language  to  be  printed  for  them. 
"The  greater  part  of  these,"  they  say,  "have  been  distributed.  The 
two  Mahratta  tracts,  printed  by  us,  are  very  nearly  exhausted,  and 
several  hundred  copies  of  the  Gospel  of  Matthew  have  also  been 
distributed." 

On  the  subject  of  schools,  your  Committee  cannot  do  better  than  to  give 
at  large  the  statement  made  by  Messrs.  Hall,  Newell,  and  Bardwell  in 
their  joint  letter  of  6th  April. 

"Since  we  last  wrote,"  say  they,  "the  number  of  schools  has  been 
increased  to  eleven.  Four  of  them  are  on  the  opposite  end  of  the  island, 
where  it  can  hardly  be  said  there  was  before  any  such  thing  as  schooling 
among  the  natives.  Consequently  we  found  less  readiness  in  the  people 
to  avail  themselves  of  the  advantages  of  schooling  for  their  children. 
This  circumstance  only  rendered  it  the  more  desirable  that  schools 
should  be  established  among  them,  and  we  were  much  encouraged  to 
find  that,  in  less  than  two  months,  about  one  hundred  boys  were  collec 
ted  in  these  four  schools  with  the  prospect  of  an  increased  number. 

"The  whole  number  of  boys  attending  all  the  schools,  we  estimate  at 
six  hundred.  Many  more  are  attached  to  the  schools  and  attend  more 
or  less.  Probably  twice  the  number  mentioned  actually  belong  to  the 
schools;  making  in  the  course  of  a  year  twelve  hundred,  Jewish,  Mahom- 
metan,  but  chiefly  heathen  boys,  instructed  in  the  arts  of  reading,  writing, 
and  arithmetic;  and  what  is  much  more,  educated  too,  in  some  good 
degree,  in  the  knowledge  of  the  holy  Scriptures,  and  the  way  of  salvation 
through  Jesus  Christ.  Here  is  a  measure  of  success  far  exceeding  our 
most  flattering  anticipations.  It  animates  our  hearts,  and  we  cannot  but 
believe,  that  it  will  be  not  only  satisfactory,  but  highly  animating  to  our 
Christian  friends  at  home,  by  whose  noble  liberality  these  schools  are 
patronized  and  supported. 

"In  these  schools,  we  seem  to  see  a  thousand  Hindoo  hands  at  work, 
from  year  to  year,  in  undermining  the  fabric  of  Hindoo  idolatry.  We 
desire  to  repeat  our  expression  of  gratitude,  first  to  our  most  merciful 
God,  who  has  so  exceedingly  blessed  us  and  caused  our  work  to  prosper; 
— and  also  to  our  dear  friends  at  home,  by  whose  pious  liberality,  so 
many  of  the  rising  generation  in  India  are  blessed,  not  only  with  the 
rudiments  of  common  learning,  but  also  with  the  light  of  the  Gospel. 
And  we  wish  to  assure  our  friends  that  it  is  our  determination  to  continue 
and  extend  the  plan  of  schooling,  as  far  as  their  liberality  and  the  bles 
sing  of  God  on  our  own  exertions,  will  enable  us.  The  accession  of  two 
fellow-laborers,  occupying  the  new  and  very  important  stations  of  Mahim 
and  Tanna,  will  afford  new  and  great  facilities  for  multiplying  the  number 
23 


178  REPORT.  1818. 

of  schools,  and  for  superintending  them,  in  that  manner,  which  will  ren 
der  them  most  subservient  to  the  great  object  of  diffusing  useful  learning 
and  Christian  knowledge  in  this  benighted  land." 

In  regard  to  taking  heathen  children  to  be  brought  up  as  Christians, 
or  to  be  educated  in  the  mission  family,  your  Committee  have  not  the 
means  of  reporting  so  fully  as  they  could  wish.  As  it  is  a  part  of  the 
general  system,  in  which  not  a  few  of  the  friends  of  the  cause  have  taken 
a  particular  and  lively  interest,  the  Committee  have  felt  in  regard  to  it,  a 
very  wakeful  solicitude,  lest,  by  any  means,  the  benevolent  feelings  and 
hopes  of  individuals  and  societies  should  in  any  respect,  be  disappointed. 
If,  however,  circumstances  be  duly  considered,  it  will  not  be  thought 
strange  if  little,  in  this  part,  has  yet  been  done.  It  is  only  about  two 
years  since  contributions  or  donations  for  this  particular  object  began  to 
be  received  at  the  treasury;  and  but  little  more  than  a  year,  since  the 
first  remittances  for  it  could  have  been  received  in  India.  The  domestic 
state  of  the  missionaries  was  then  such,  as  not  to  admit  of  their  immedi 
ately  taking  many  children  into  the  family;  and  some  time  would  of  course 
be  required  for  selecting  and  obtaining  suitable  objects  of  the  charity. 
But  the  mission  has  since  been  enlarged  by  accessions  of  persons  of  both 
sexes:  their  advantages  for  taking  children  are  of  course  increased;  and 
no  doubt  should  be  entertained,  that,  in  due  time,  a  good  account  will  be 
rendered  in  regard  to  this  object,  in  which  the  missionaries  themselves 
have  expressed  a  very  deep  interest. 

It  would  be  the  highest  joy  of  the  Committee,  could  they  communicate 
to  their  brethren  of  this  Board  and  of  the  Christian  community  intelli 
gence  of  signal  success  at  Bombay,  in  the  conversion  of  many  from 
darkness  unto  light,  and  from  the  power  of  Satan  unto  God.  This  joy 
they  have  not  yet.  In  regard  to  success  in  this  respect,  our  beloved  and 
devoted  missionaries  express  themselves  in  the  following  moving  terms. 
"We  can  now  say  that  for  years,  we  have  preached  the  Gospel  to  the 
heathen.  But  we  are  constrained  to  take  up  the  bitter  lamentation  of 
the  prophet — "Who  hath  believed  our  report,  and  to  whom  hath  the  arm 
of  the  Lord  been  revealed."  We  know  of  no  one  who  has  been  brought 
to  the  faith  of  the  Gospel  under  our  preaching.  This  severely  tries,  but 
does  not  discourage,  us.  We  implore,  and,  oh!  may  all  our  dear  Chris 
tian  friends  at  home,  daily  implore,  divine  grace,  that  we  may  faithfully 
labor  and  not  faint;  remembering  the  blessed  promise,  that  he  that  goeth 
forth  with  weeping,  bearing  precious  seed,  shall  doubtless  return  with  joy, 
bringing  his  sheaves  with  him.  Though  we  now  see  no  visible  tokens 
of  converting  grace,  yet  we  cannot  but  indulge  the  pleasing  hope,  that 
out  of  the  great  number,  who  have  so  repeatedly  heard  from  our  lips  the 
glad  tidings  of  the  Gospel,  the  hearts  of  some  have  been  touched;  and 
that  the  unseen  operations  of  divine  truth  and  grace  are  now  preparing 
them  to  turn  from  death  unto  life." 

Feelings  and  views  like  these  cannot  be  cherished  and  strengthened 
too  assiduously  or  devoutly,  by  missionaries  themselves,  and  all  who  love 
the  holy  and  glorious  cause  of  missions.  It  would  show  a  deplorable 
defect  of  faith,  it  would  be  an  impious  affront  to  the  God  of  the  Gospel 
and  of  all  its  promises  and  grace  and  power,  to  be  discouraged  because 
the  desired  success  is  not  immediately  seen.  The  husbandman  is  not 
discouraged,  because  he  does  not  see  his  fields  white  for  the  harvest,  as 


1818.  REPORT.  179 

soon  as  he  begins  to^clear  his  grounds,  to  plough,  or  to  sow.  The  mer 
chant  is  not  discouraged,  because  his  coffers  or  his  warehouses  are  not 
filled  with  the  avails  of  his  enterprise,  as  soon  as  the  preparations  for  the 
voyage  are  commenced,  or  his  ship  gets  out  to  sea.  How  often,  even  in 
this  land,  where  the  darkness  and  corruptions,  and  long  established 
mummeries  and  superstitions  of  the  most  debasing  and  besotting  idolatries 
are  not  first  to  be  cleared  away,  do  faithful  and  devoted  ministers  of 
Christ  labor  among  their  people  a  much  longer  time,  than  the  missiona 
ries  have  been  laboring  at  Bombay,  with  very  little,  if  any,  visible  suc 
cess?  How  long  did  the  missionaries  from  Europe  labor  at  Tranquebar, 
and  how  long  in  Bengal,  before  their  hearts  were  cheered  with  any  con 
siderable  fruits?  Who  should  be  discouraged,  after  what  has  been 
witnessed  in  Eimeo  and  Otaheite? — A  nation  born  in  a  day,  after  twenty 
years  of  missionary  labors  and  sufferings,  under  circumstances  of  the 
darkest  and  most  cheerless  aspect. 

Success,  in  the  actual  conversion  of  the  heathen,  cannot  indeed  be  too 
earnestly  desired;  and  when  granted,  is  encouraging,  and  animating, 
and  to  be  acknowledged  with  the  most  devout  thankfulness.  Success, 
however,  is  not  the  rule  of  duty,  nor  the  test  of  expediency.  It  is  the 
commandment  of  the  EVERLASTING  GOD,  that  his  word  should  be  made 
known  among  all  nations — that  the  Gospel  should  be  preached  unto  every 
creature.  The  question  is,  Has  this  commandment  been  fulfilled?  Have 
we  done,  or  are  we  doing,  in  obedience  to  it,  all  that  belongs  to  us — all 
that  we  can?  It  ill  becomes  Christians,  especially  at  this  late  day,  to 
fold  their  hands,  and  prudently  wait  to  see  the  success  of  missions,  before 
they  lend  their  aid  to  the  work.  What  if  all  were  to  assume  this  atti 
tude?  The  last  trumpet  would  sound,  before  the  work  would  begin!  As 
little  does  it  become  those,  who  are  engaged  in  this  cause,  to  be  discour 
aged — still  less  those,  who  are  standing  idle  in  regard  to  it,  to  justify 
their  negligence — on  account  of  any  supposed  failure  or  slowness  of 
success.  It  is  ours,  in  humble  and  cheerful  obedience  to  the  command, 
to  do  what  we  can  for  the  publication  of  the  Gospel;  it  is  God's  to  deter 
mine  the  effect.  If  the  desired  success  be  delayed,  it  is  a  reason  for  the 
prayer — 'Lord  increase  our  faith — our  diligence — our  willingness  to 
make  exertions  and  sacrifices;' — no  reason  for  the  abatement  of  our 
zeal. 

At  Bombay,  by  means  of  Christian  efforts  and  liberalities  in  this  coun 
try,  the  Gospel  has  already  been  published  to  thousands,  to  whom  it  was 
unknown:  and  a  system  of  operations  is  advancing  for  its  eventual 
publication  to  thousands  and  millions  more.  Let  all  who  have  a  part 
in  this  work,  rejoice  in  what  has  been  done;  look  well  to  what  they  have 
yet  to  do;  and  trust  the  event  with  HIM  to  whom  it  belongs. 

CEYLON. — In  the  Report  of  the  last  year  an  account  was  given  of  the 
commencement  of  our  Ceylon  mission,  reaching  to  the  close  of  the  year 
1816:  little  more  than  nine  months  from  the  arrival  of  the  missionaries 
at  Colombo,  and  about  three  months  from  their  arrival  at  Jaffna.  The 
present  Report  will  bring  down  the  history  to  February  of  the  present 
year,  embracing  a  period  of  about  fourteen  months. 

The  plan  settled  by  the  missionaries  was  to  form  two  divisions,  occu 
pying  separate  stations,  but  to  act  in  concert  and  manage  their  general 


180  REPORT.  1818. 

concerns  as  composing  one  mission.  In  pursuance  of  this  plan,  it  was 
agreed,  that  Messrs.  Warren  and  Poor  should  be  stationed  at  Tillipally, 
and  Messrs.  Richards  and  Meigs  at  Batticotta.  At  the  commencement 
of  the  period,  now  proposed  for  review,  Messrs.  Warren  and  Poor  had 
resided  at  Tillipally,  making  beginnings  in  their  work,  about  ten  weeks; 
but  Messrs.  Richards  and  Meigs  remained  at  Jaffnapatam,  as  the  house 
assigned  to  them  at  Batticotta  was  not  yet  in  a  state  to  be  occupied. 

It  will  be  gratefully  recollected,  that,  by  favor  of  the  government  of  the 
island,  the  brethren  were  allowed  to  take  possession,  for  the  purposes  of 
the  mission,  of  the  ancient  churches,  mansion  houses  and  glebes  of  the 
two  parishes,  which  they  had  chosen  for  their  stations.  To  put  the  buil 
dings,  in  a  state  of  repair  fit  for  use  was  their  first  care,  and  a  work  of 
considerable  time.  In  a  joint  letter  of  Sept.  1st,  they  say,  "The  brethren 
at  Batticotta  have  been  employed  most  of  the  year,  in  repairing  their 
dwelling  house.  As  the  building  is  large,  as  it  had  gone  much  to  decay, 
they  have  been  under  the  necessity  of  occupying  more  time,  and  of  expen 
ding  a  larger  sum  of  money  to  render  it  comfortable,  than  the  brethren 
at  Tillipally.  The  buildings  at  both  our  stations,  when  completed,  will 
be  very  valuable."  Of  the  expenses  of  the  repairs  the  missionaries  have 
duly  rendered  their  accounts:  and  the  amount,  though  considerable,  yet 
weighs  very  lightly  against  the  highly  important  advantages  of  possessing 
the  buildings.  The  mansion  houses  are  sufficient  for  their  families;  the 
churches  afford  ample  accommodations  for  their  religious  assemblies,  and 
partly  for  their  schools;  and  the  produce  of  their  lands  will  be  of  no  small 
convenience  and  value  to  the  mission. 

But  the  liberality  of  the  government  has  not  been  limited  to  the  build 
ings  and  lands  in  Tillipally  and  Batticotta;  it  has  granted  to  our  mission, 
since  its  establishment,  similar  buildings  and  lands  in  six  other  parishes 
in  the  vicinity.  Upon  these  also  our  missionaries  have  bestowed  some 
care.  They  have  besides  procured  the  building  of  a  school  at  Mallagum, 
and  another  at  Panditeripo;  the  former  chiefly  by  subscriptions  of  the 
native  inhabitants;  the  latter  in  great  part  by  the  grateful  liberality  of  an 
individual.  A  son  of  a  native  was  brought  to  Tillipally,  in  a  state  of 
mental  derangement,  for  medical  aid.  "On  his  recovery,"  say  the 
brethren,  "the  father  understanding  that  we  intended  to  establish  a  school 
at  Panditeripo,  generously  offered  to  furnish  timber,  and  a  piece  of 
ground,  near  the  old  church  building,  for  a  school  house,  and  to  superin 
tend  the  building  of  it.  He  is  now  interesting  himself  much  to  engage 
boys  for  the  school."  In  another  communication,  they  say,  "The  brethren 
at  Tillipally  have  been  at  some  expense  in  preparing  suitable  houses  for 
schools  in  four  of  the  parishes  near  them;  and  as  it  is  our  intention  to 
establish  schools  in  all  the  parishes  around  us,  as  fast  as  it  lies  in  our 
power,  we  shall  be  under  the  necessity  of  constantly  expending  small 
sums  of  money  for  this  purpose,  at  some  places  more,  and  in  others  less, 
according  to  the  size  and  quality  of  the  buildings  which  maybe  prepared. 
At  some  places  we  propose  to  build  small  houses  in  the  native  style, 
at  others  partially  to  repair  either  the  dwelling  house  or  the  church,  when 
either  of  them  remains  in  a  suitable  state  to  make  it  an  object  to  preserve 
them." 

It  is  thus,  that  these  diligent  missionaries  have  seen  fit  to  provide  for 
important  and  extended  operations,  and  no  remarks  can  be  necessary  to 


1818.  REPORT.  181 

make  it  evident,  that  the  preparations  which  they  have  made,  and  the 
advantages  which  they  have  secured,  must  be  highly  conducive  to  the 
great  objects  of  the  mission.  While  engaged,  however,  in  these  prepa 
rations,  they  have  redeemed  time  for  other  purposes. 

Immediately  after  their  settlement  at  Tillipally,  Messrs.  Warren  and 
Poor  established  a  school  at  that  place,  for  the  instruction  of  children 
and  youth,  both  in  English  and  in  Tamul.  Shortly  afterwards  they  estab 
lished  another,  at  Maliagum;  and  they  proceeded,  as  fast  as  circumstan 
ces  would  permit,  to  make  arrangements  for  similar  establishments  at 
Milette  and  Oodooville.  • 

"The  school  at  Tillipalty,"  say  the  brethren,  in  a  letter  of  27th  Dec. 
"is  in  a  flourishing  state.  Sixteen  boys  are  able  to  read,  with  a  good 
degree  of  facility,  the  Tamul  and  English  Testaments;  and  as  many 
more  who  are  younger  are  making  good  progress  in  both  languages. 
The  boys  in  the  school  are  instructed  in  the  principles  of  the  Christian 
religion,  as  fully  as  if  they  were  the  children  of  Christian  parents.  Most 
of  them  have  committed  to  memory  two  or  three  catechisms  in  Tamul, 
and  large  portions  of  the  Scriptures.  They  are  now  engaged  in  tran 
scribing  on  olas  the  book  of  Genesis.  This  exercise  is  particularly  im 
portant,  as  the  Tamul  Old  Testament  is  now  out  of  print;  and  it  is  very 
desirable,  that  the  absurd  notions  of  this  people  respecting  the  creation, 
the  fall  of  man,  and  the  commencement  of  idolatry,  should  be  corrected. 
On  the  Sabbath,  immediately  after  the  morning  service,  the  boys  re 
hearse  a  part  of  what  they  have  committed  to  memory,  and  are  ques 
tioned  respecting  their  knowledge  of  Christianity." 

For  their  other  schools  they  found  it  difficult  to  procure  good  instruc 
tors.  Some,  whom  they  engaged,  proved  incompetent  or  unfaithful,  and 
were  dismissed  from  the  employment.  On  account  of  this  and  other 
difficulties  incident  to  the  newness  of  their  situation,  they  judged  it  advi 
sable  to  contract  their  plan,  until  they  should  be  possessed  of  advantages 
for  extending  it  to  a  compass  and  with  an  effect,  more  proportionate  to 
their  wishes.  -^ 

The  situation  of  Messrs.  Richards  and  Meigs  did  not  admit  of  their 
engaging  so  soon  in  establishing  schools.  It  was  not  until  June,  that  they 
found  it  convenient  to  fix  their  residence,  together  at  Batticotta;  and  even 
then,  they  were  still  encumbered  with  the  repairs  of  their  buildings.  But 
though  they  could  not  establish  a  regular  school,  a  considerable  number 
of  boys  and  young  men  received  instruction  in  English  constantly  at 
their  house;  and  in  the  latter  part  of  September,  a  Tamul  school  was 
established  by  them  at  Batticotta,  which  commenced  and  proceeded  with 
encourgaging  auspices. 

The  missionaries  have  a  high  sense  of  the  importance  of  taking  native 
youths  completely  under  their  own  care  and  direction;  as  this  would  with 
draw  them  from  the  pernicious  influences  of  their  heathen  parents  and 
connections,  and  place  them  in  the  most  hopeful  way  of  improvement,  and 
for  being  qualified  for  usefulness.  "Upon  inquiry,"  they  say,  "we  are 
well  assured,  that  many  active  boys  may  be  found  whose  parents  will 
gladly  put  them  wholly  under  our  care,  if  we  will  support  them.  The 
brethren  at  Tillipally,  have  been  solicited  by  parents  to  take  their  sons 
to  support,  and  employ  them  as  they  wish.  They  have  given  much  at 
tention  to  the  subject  of  supporting  boys;  and  have  concluded,  that  with 


182  REPORT.  1818. 

twelve  Spanish  dollars  a  year  they  can,  with  the  present  exchange  of 
Spanish  dollars  on  this  island,  and  the  present  price  of  rice,  their  principal 
food,  support  a  boy  under  20  years  of  age,  provided  they  can  have  30  or 
40  to  eat  together.  The  Rev.  Christian  David  of  Jaffnapatam,  has  a  school 
on  this  plan,  supported  by  government;  and  there  is  one  attached  to  the 
Tranquebar  mission.  The  good  effect  which  must  result  from  the  estab 
lishment  of  schools  on  such  a  plan  are  so  obvious,  that  the  brethren  at 
Tillipally  have  determined  to  embrace  the  present  favorable  opportunity 
of  taking  10  or  12  of  their  most  promising  boys,  who  are  anxious  to  put 
themselves  under  their  constant  care,  and  keep  them  in  a  building  which 
they  have  erected  in  their  garden,  for  the  accommodation  of  the  school. 
By  this  means,  they  will  be  able  to  keep  the  boys  from  the  influence  of 
heathen  society,  and  regularly  employed  in  useful  studies.  The  great 
importance  of  establishing  schools  on  this  plan  appears  still  more  obvious, 
when  we  consider  the  great  need  there  is  of  well  qualified  native  teach 
ers,  and  the  superiority  they  will  possess,  in  many  important  respects, 
over  foreigners: — particularly,  if  God  should,  as  we  would  most  devoutly 
pray,  prepare  them  by  his  grace.  Should  the  Board  approve  of  this  plan, 
they  will  give  us  all  the  assistance  in  their  power  for  the  support  of  prom 
ising  boys,  at  each  station:  many  of  whom,  without  our  support,  cannot 
receive  an  education,  but  who,  with  the  small  pittance  they  require,  may 
be  made,  by  the  grace  of  God,  distinguished  blessings  to  multitudes  of 
these  heathens,  now  sitting  in  the  region  and  shadow  of  death.  If  proper 
teachers  could  now  be  found,  schools  might  now  be  established  and  super 
intended  by  us,  in  many  parishes. — Are  there  not  many  pious  individuals 
in  our  native  land,  who  will  most  cheerfully  contribute  for  the  support  of 
one  or  more  boys?  We  feel  persuaded  that  the  benevolent  Christian  public 
will  not  suffer  an  object  so  intimately  connected  with  the  success  of  our 
mission  among  these  heathen  people,  to  fail  for  want  of  support.  We 
cannot  surely  be  disappointed  in  the  belief,  that  the  pious  zeal  and  liberal 
charities  of  our  sisters  in  the  churches,  so  often  manifested  on  similar 
occasions,  will  be  called  forth  for  the  support  of  this  object,  and  little 
associations  will  be  formed,  to  rescue  from  the  tyranny  of  Satan  these 
unhappy  youths,  and  bring  them  to  the  light  of  the  gospel  of  the  Prince 
of  Peace.  Their  charities  and  their  prayers  will,  we  trust,  ere  long, 
cause  many,  who  are  now  growing  up  in  all  the  usual  superstitions  of 
idolatry,  to  rise  up  and  call  them  blessed" 

This  forcible  appeal  has  already  touched  many  a  heart;  and  in  answer 
to  it,  "pious  zeal  and  liberal  charities"  have  been  displayed,  and  "asso 
ciations  for  the  support  of  this  object" — have  been  formed.  And  your 
Committee  are  persuaded,  that  a  design  which  promises  so  much  for  the 
advancement  of  the  general  cause,  will  be  liberally  and  effectually  pat 
ronized,  by  this  Board,  and  by  the  Christian  public.  The  experiments 
made,  and  the  facts  communicated  by  the  missionaries,  afford  ample  en 
couragements  for  a  steady  and  vigorous  prosecution  of  the  plan  of  estab 
lishing  schools  and  furnishing  instruction,  for  the  heathen  children  and 
youth  in  the  district  of  Jaffna,  as  fast  and  to  as  great  an  extent,  as  the 
means  at  disposal  and  a  due  regard  to  the  various  objects  of  our  several 
establishments  will  permit. 

Earnestly  engaged  as  the  missionaries  have  been  for  the  instruction  of 
the  young  in  schools  and  in  their  families,  they  have  not  been  unmindful 


1818.  REPORT.  183 

of  the  paramount  importance  of  preaching  the  gospel  At  Tillipally 
and  in  the  neighboring  parishes,  Messrs.  Warren  and  Poor  have  preached 
statedly  on  the  Sabbath,  and  on  other  days,  as  they  have  had  opportuni 
ty;  as  have  also  Messrs.  Richards  and  Meigs  at  Jaffnapatam,  while  resi 
dent  there,  and  at  Batticotta,  and  in  the  vicinity,  since  their  removal  to 
their  station.  Their  preaching  has,  of  course,  been  for  the  most  part 
through  the  medium  of  interpreters;  but  in  October,  just  a  year  after  set 
tling  at  Tillipally,  Mr.  Poor  commenced  preaching  in  Tamul,  the  lan 
guage  chiefly  spoken  in  the  northern  part  of  Ceylon.  The  numbers  of 
their  hearers  have  been  considerable,  and  at  the  latest  dates  were  in 
creasing.  Many  have  been  constant  and  earnest  in  their  attention;  and 
some,  it  is  hoped,  have  received  abiding  impressions,  both  from  the  public 
and  private  instructions  given  them." 

Messrs.  Warren  and  Poor  have  entered  in  their  journal,  March  21, 
eighteen  months  ago,  an  interesting  record.  "The  case,"  they  say,  "of 
Supyen,  a  young  Malabar  from  Jaffnapatam,  of  about  nineteen  years  of 
age,  has  become  very  interesting  to  us.  He  is  the  eldest  son,  the  favor 
ite  of  his  parents,  who  have  high  expectations  respecting  him.  His 
father,  who  is  a  man  of  considerable  property,  placed  Supyen  under  our 
care  about  three  months  ago,  to  be  instructed  in  the  English  language. 
He  committed  him  to  us  in  a  very  formal  manner,  and  said,  that  Supyen 
was  no  longer  his  son  but  ours.  A  few  days  before,  Supyen  had  visited 
us.  He  told  us  that  in  consequence  of  reading  a  few  chapters  in  the 
Bible,  which  he  received  from  a  native  Christian,  he  thought  that  the 
heathen  religion  was  wrong,  and  he  earnestly  desired  to  become  '  ac 
quainted  with  Christianity.  We  had  much  interesting  conversation  with 
him,  as  his  mind  was  awakened  to  a  very  serious  inquiry.  He  said  he 
would  request  his  father  to  permit  him  to  come  to  school  to  learn  English, 
though  his  principal  object  would  be  to  learn  the  Christian  religion.  His 
conduct,  since  he  has  been  with  us,  has  been  uniformly  good.  His  mod 
est  deportment  and  earnest  desire  to  receive  instruction,  have  induced 
us  to  encourage  him  to  be  much  with  us.  We  rejoice  in  the  belief  that 
he  has  felt  in  some  degree  the  power  of  divine  truth  on  his  heart.  A  few 
weeks  ago  when  D.  Bast,  Esq.  was  with  us  on  a  visit,  Supyen  took  us 
aside,  and  told  him  in  Tamul,  as  he  (Supyen)  understands  but  little 
English,  that  he  had  something  to  communicate  to  us.  He  was  consid 
erably  agitated,  and  manifested  a  deep  interest  in  what  he  was  about  to 
say.  He  said  he  had  been  examining  the  Christian  religion;  and  being 
convinced  it  was  true,  he  wished  to  receive  it.  He  learned  from  the 
New  Testament,  that  no  one  could  become  a  true  disciple  of  Christ,  un 
less  he  forsook  father  and  mother,  &/c.,  and  he  wished  us  to  know,  that  he 
was  willing  to  leave  all  for  Christ.  When  we  explained  to  him  the  meaning 
of  those  passages,  and  told  him  it  was  even  his  duty  to  continue  with  his 
parents,  unless  they  endeavored  to  prevent  his  serving  Christ,  his  mind 
was  somewhat  relieved.  As  his  parents  were  heathens,  he  appeared  to 
think  that  he  must  leave  them  without  reference  to  the  treatment  he 
might  receive  from  them.  Perhaps,  however,  he  foresaw  the  storm  which 
has  since  arisen." 

On  the  20th  of  April,  the  father  of  this  interesting  youth,  hearing  that 
he  had  become  a  Christian,  repaired  to  Tillipally,  and  with  fair  pretences, 
took  him  from  the  mission  family.  Scarcely  were  they  out  of  sight  of 


184  REPORT.  1818. 

the  missionaries,  when  Supyen  was  stripped,  degraded,  and  treated  with 
great  abuse.  At  home,  no  persuasions  or  threats,  no  blandishments  or 
severities  were  spared,  to  induce  him  to  renounce  Christianity.  About 
a  month  after  he  was  taken  from  the  mission  house,  "his  former  compan 
ions  gave  a  feast,  which  he  was  obliged  to  attend.  He  was  solicited  by 
the  company  to  make  an  offering  to  one  of  the  gods  on  the  occasion,  and 
was  compelled  to  accept  the  appointment.  He  went  into  the  apartment 
of  the  temple,  where  the  idol  was,  and  was  left  alone  to  perform  the  cere 
mony.  He  immediately  stripped  the  idol  of  his  ornaments,  and  kneeled 
down  and  prayed  to  the  living  God.  When  his  companions,  looking 
through  the  curtain,  saw  him  in  prayer,  they  were  afraid,  and  went  and 
informed  his  father.  Supyen  was  carried  home  and  punished  with  se 
verity.  He  told  his  father  that  "Christ  warned  his  disciples  to  expect 
such  treatment."  Three  or  four  weeks  afterwards,  "rudely  seized  by 
his  father  and  relations,  his  feet  were  pinned  fast  in  the  stocks,  his  hands 
and  arms  closely  bound  with  cords,  and  he  was  severely  whipped."  His 
father  then  brought  his  Christian  books,  and  burned  them  before  him; 
and  compelled  him  to  write  a  letter  of  recantation,  which  was  sent  to  the 
missionaries.  "He  was  kept  bound  in  the  stocks  for  several  days,  and 
received  but  very  little  to  eat." 

Still,  however,  he  remained  firm  in  his  adherence  to  Christianity,  which 
his  parents  and  friends  perceiving,  after  all  other  means  had  been  employ 
ed  in  vain  to  shake  him  from  his  steadfastness,  he  was  sent,  about  the 
middle  of  September,  to  Candy,  in  the  interior  of  the  island,  where,  it 
was  supposed,  he  would  be  beyond  the  reach  of  Christian  influence. 
There  he  stayed  about  six  weeks,  conversed  freely  on  religion  with  some 
of  the  head  men,  promised  at  their  request  to  send  them  the  Cingalese 
New  Testament,  and  returned  to  his  father's  house  without  any  signs  of 
apostasy.  His  sufferings  after  his  return  were  extreme,  until  his  father, 
in  the  fore  part  of  January,  resolved  on  taking  him  to  the  coast,  that  he 
might  live  with  some  of  his  heathen  relations  there,  where,  again,  he 
could  have  no  intercourse  with  Christians.  Having  proceeded  to  the 
place  from  which  they  were  to  sail,  just  as  they  were  about  to  embark, 
Supyen  had  the  courage  to  remonstrate.  "You  have  done  many  things," 
said  he  to  his  father,  "to  turn  me  from  the  Christian  religion — but  to  no 
purpose.  You  sent  me  to  Candy,  but  I  returned  a  Christian.  If  you 
now  carry  me  to  the  coast,  I  shall  return  a  Christian.  For  as  I  am  a 
Christian  in  heart,  I  shall  always  be  one." — The  father  abandoned  his 
purpose.  Supyen  was  sent  back  to  Jaffnapatam;  not  to  go  to  his  father's 
house,  but  to  beg  among  the  natives,  till  his  father  should  return  from  the 
coast  with  a  husband  for  his  sister;  and  was  told,  that  as  soon  as  his 
sister  should  be  married,  "he  might  go  wherever  he  could  find  support." 
He  was  afterwards  seen  by  Mr.  Poor,  and  though  desirous  of  going  with 
him  to  Tillipally,  was  advised  to  remain  at  Jaffnapatam  until  his  father's 
return. 

No  later  information  has  been  received  of  this  young  Malabarian  con 
fessor,  of  whom  it  may  be  devoutly  hoped,  that  he  is  designed  by  sove 
reign  grace  to  be  an  ornament  to  the  Christian  cause,  a  blessing  to  his 
bewildered  countrymen,  and  a  crown  of  missionary  rejoicing  in  the  day 
of  the  Lord  Jesus. 


1818.  REPORT.  185 

Other  individuals  are  mentioned,  (of  whom  one  has  been  employed  as 
a  schoolmaster,  another  as  a  teacher  of  the  missionaries  themselves  in 
Tarnul,  and  another  as  an  interpreter,)  whose  minds  appear  to  have  re 
ceived  deep  convictions  of  divine  truth.  And  not  a  few  of  the  natives, 
brahmins,  headmen,  and  others,  have  been  excited  to  inquiry,  and  have 
expressed  doubts  respecting  their  own  religion.  If  the  inquiry  occur, 
why  effects  of  this  kind  should  appear,  so  much  sooner  at  Jaffna,  than 
at  Bombay;  it  may  be  proper  to  recollect,  that  in  Jaffna  rays  of  divine 
light,  long  ago  scattered  there  by  missionaries,  have  pierced,  and  in  a 
measure,  dissipated  the  thick  mists  of  heathenism,  and  laid  the  minds  of 
the  people  more  open  to  instruction  and  conviction.  Especially  should 
it  be  considered  and  devoutly  acknowledged,  that  He,  with  whom  is  the 
residue  of  the  Spirit,  is  a  wise  and  holy  sovereign,  who  giveth  not  ac 
count  of  any  of  his  matters." 

The  medical  knowledge  of  Messrs.  Warren  and  Richards  gave  early 
promise  of  great  advantages  to  the  mission,  and  important  benefits  to  the 
surrounding  population.  On  this  subject  the  brethren,  under  date  of  June 
1st,  write  as  follows:  "Our  attention  since  our  arrival  here  has  been 
much  called  to  the  sick  around  us.  Many  flocked  to  our  doors  as  soon 
as  they  were  informed  that  we  had  the  means  of  assisting  them.  We 
have  reason  to  believe,  that  God  will  bless  our  attention  to  them  for  their 
spiritual,  as  well  as  temporal  good.  It  affords  us  an  opportunity  of  com 
mending  the  great  Physician  to  many  from  different  parts  of  the  district, 
whom  otherwise  we  should  probably  never  see,  and  at  a  time  best  calcu 
lated  to  leave  a  good  impression  on  their  minds.  Our  morning  prayers 
are  attended  by  many,  who  come  for  medical  aid;  at  which  time  we  take 
occasion  to  preach  to  them  Jesus.  We  find,  however,  that  an  attention 
to  their  wants  subjects  us  to  considerable  expense.  Many  of  the  objects 
are  wasting  with  hunger,  as  well  as  disease:  and  some  have  no  place  in 
their  sickness  to  shelter  them  from  the  weather.  These  circumstances 
induced  the  brethren  at  Tillipally  to  solicit  assistance  from  their  friends 
here.  Through  the  active  benevolence  of  the  Rev.  J.  D.  Glenie,  chap 
lain  of  this  district,  and  J.  N.  Mooyart,  Esq.  magistrate  of  Jaffna,  they 
have  collected  enough  to  put  up  a  building  for  a  hospital,  and  to  furnish  it 
with  some  accommodation  for  the  sick  poor.  The  Rev.  Mr.  Glenie  gave 
the  timber  for  the  building,  and  circulated  himself  a  subscription.  Mr. 
Mooyart  contributed  very  generously  for  the  object.  Several  of  the  civil 
and  military  gentlemen  have  contributed  toward  the  institution.  There 
is  at  present  a  small  monthly  subscription  raised  to  support  the  hospital; 
but  it  is  inadequate  and  uncertain.  The  contributors  belong  either  to 
the  civil  or  military  list,  and  their  continuance  here  is  wholly  uncertain. 
The  Rev.  Mr.  Glenie  was  removed  four  weeks  since  to  Point  De  Galle. 
His  departure  we  very  much  regret.  He  is  a  decided  friend  of  mission 
aries,  and  feels  deeply  interested  for  the  moral  improvement  of  this 
heathen  people.  Mr.  Mooyart,  whom  we  have  mentioned  before  in  our 
letters,  is  a  valuable  friend  to  us.  He  is  an  active,  zealous  Christian." 

He  who  carne  from  heaven — from  the  bosom  of  everlasting  love, — to 
seek  and  to  save  that  which  was  lost,  himself,  while  intent  on  this  great 
work  of  preaching  the  gospel,  l&ok  our  infirmities,  and  bare  our  sick 
nesses.  His  disciples,  and  especially  his  ministers,  should  possess  and 
display  the  same  compassionate  spirit.  And  it  cannot  but  afford  a  high 
24 


186  REPORT.  1818. 

satisfaction  and  cause  of  thankfulness  to  this  Board,  and  to  the  friends 
of  missions  and  of  mankind  in  this  country,  if  by  any  means  of  theirs, 
the  miseries  of  their  fellow  beings  in  India,  have  been,  or  shall  be  re 
lieved. 

But  how  frail  is  man,  and  how  liable  to  disappointment  or  to  interrup 
tion,  are  even  the  most  benevolent  human  purposes!  Physicians  have  their 
own  infirmities  and  sicknesses  to  bear,  and  are  themselves  objects  of  Chris 
tian  sympathy.  At  the  latest  dates,  Messrs.  Warren  and  Richards  were 
both  suspended  from  their  labors,  and  languishing  with  disease.  It  will 
be  recollected,  that  Mr.  Warren,  after  his  ordination,  and  before  leaving 
this  country,  was  taken  with  bleeding  at  his  lungs: — with  symptoms,  which 
awakened  no  little  concern  for  the  event.  It  was,  however,  the  opinion 
of  physicians,  that  he  could  not  do  better  for  his  health  or  life  than  to  go 
to  India.  The  voyage  proved  beneficial,  and  the  climate  of  Ceylon  pro 
pitious:  and  for  about  sixteen  months  after  his  arrival  there,  he  was  able 
to  be  constantly  and  entirely  engaged  in  the  business  and  cares  of  the 
mission,  and  his  prospect  for  established  health  was  fair.  But  on  the  13th 
of  August,  a  year  ago,  to  the  great  affliction  of  all  the  members  of  the 
mission,  and  of  many  others,  his  malady  returned.  Noticing  his  case  in 
their  journal  ten  days  afterward,  the  brethren  say,  "Our  friend,  J.  N. 
Mooyart,  Esq.  who  visited  us  this  morning,  generously  offered  us  the  use 
of  his  house,  which  is  furnished  with  every  convenience,  and  advised  that 
brother  Warren  should  be  removed  to  Jaffnapatam.  Brother  Warren's 
peace  of  mind,  and  resignation  to  the  divine  will,  are  to  us  a  cause  for 
gratitude,  and  a  ground  of  encouragement  to  all  missionaries,  to  confide 
in  the  promise  of  their  Lord  and  master,  Lo,  1  am  with  you  always" 

At  the  house  of  Mr.  Mooyart,  to  whom  the  missionaries  and  this  Board 
are  under  great  obligations  for  his  multiplied  benefits,  Mr.  Warren  ex 
perienced  all  the  solace  and  relief,  which  the  most  affectionate  kindness 
and  assiduous  attention  could  afford.  After  some  weeks  however,  it  was 
judged  advisable,  that  he  should  be  removed  to  the  southern  part  of  the 
island,  to  avoid  the  effects  of  the  approaching  rains;  and  accordingly  on 
the  9th  of  October  he  left  Jaffna  for  Colombo. 

In  a  letter  of  December  27,  Messrs.  Meigs  and  Poor  say,  "We  have 
also  informed  you  of  the  ill  health  of  brother  Richards;  that  for  more  than 
a  year  past  he  has  been  unable  to  study,  in  consequence  of  weak  eyes, 
and  that  for  several  months,  he  has  been  in  a  debilitated  state.  We  must 
now  inform  you,  that  his  symptoms  have  become  alarming;  and  we  have 
many  fears  respecting  his  recovery.  His  lungs  are  affected,  and  his  whole 
system  much  reduced.  After  due  deliberation,  we  have  thought  it  expe 
dient  that  he  should  go  to  Colombo  by  water;  and  that,  unless  some  special 
reasons  should  prevent,  he  and  brother  Warren  should  thence  proceed  for 
Bombay.  Brother  Richards  left  Jaffna  for  Colombo  on  the  13th  inst. 
leaving  sister  Richards  and  son  at  Batticotta. 

"The  advice  of  physicians  here,  and  the  experience  we  have  had  on 
the  subject,  particularly  in  the  case  of  brother  Warren  and  sister  Poor  on 
our  passage  from  America,  and  recovery  of  brother  Bardwell's  weak 
eyes,  on  his  passage  to  Bombay,  are  considerations  which  unite  in  direct 
ing  to  a  voyage,  as  the  most  probable  means  of  restoring  them  to  health." 

At  Colombo  the  two  invalid  brethren  contracted  for  a  passage  to  Bom 
bay,  and  expected  to  embark  about  the  middle  of  January.  But  on  the 


1818.  REPORT.  187 

27th  February,  the  latest  date  from  Ceylon,  Mr.  Poor  writes:  "We  have 
this  day  received  a  letter  from  Colombo,  informing  us  that  both  our  breth 
ren  there  are  more  unwell.  Sister  Richards  set  out  for  Colombo  on 
Tuesday  last." 

In  their  letter  of  the  27th  December,  the  brethren  Meigs  and  Poor,  in 
their  trying  situations,  express  their  feelings  in  the  following  affecting 
terms:  "By  the  removal  of  our  two  brethren,  in  such  circumstances,  we 
feel  that  our  strength  is  greatly  reduced.  Whether  we  regard  them  as 
beloved  companions,  and  fellow  laborers  in  the  mission,  or  as  Physicians 
whose  services,  our  families,  situated  as  they  are  at  a  distance  from  the 
European  settlements,  greatly  need,  we  cannot  but  regard  their  removal 
as  a  great  affliction.  But  our  minds  are  more  deeply  affected  when  we 
consider  its  influence  upon  the  state  of  the  mission.  Just  at  the  time 
when  we  had  nearly  completed  the  necessary  repairs  for  living  comfort 
ably  among  the  heathen,  and  in  some  degree  prepared  ourselves  for 
engaging  with  undivided  attention  to  the  appropriate  duties  of  the 
mission  with  pleasing  prospects  of  success,  we  are  deprived  of  half  our 
strength. 

"The  same  reasons  which  induced  the  Prudential  Committee  to  send 
us  hither,  the  additional  ones  contained  in  several  of  our  letters,  and  now 
the  reasons  arising  from  the  importance  of  supporting  an  establishment 
already  commenced,  unite  in  rendering  it  most  desirable  that  more 
missionaries  should  be  sent  out  without  delay." 

These  communications  will  be  received  by  this  Board,  as  they  have 
been  by  the  Committee,  with  affectionate  sympathy  and  deep  concern. 
By  all  the  members  of  the  Board,  and  by  the  many  thousands  who  take 
part  with  them  in  this  great  cause,  prayer  will  be  offered  without  ceasing 
to  the  Father  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that,  with  all  the  riches  of  his 
mercy,  he  will  be  present  with  the  beloved  missionaries  in  the  day  of 
trial — with  the  sick,  and  with  those  on  whom  consequently  redoubled 
labors,  and  cares  are  devolved — affording  to  them  respectively,  all  needed 
help  and  support  and  consolation;  and  that  all  their  afflictions  may  re 
dound  to  their  sanctification  and  joy,  and  to  the  furtherance  of  his 
glorious  Gospel  among  the  heathen.  Missionaries — faithful,  devoted 
missionaries,  are  his  servants,  engaged  in  his  work,  and  holden  at  his 
disposal.  He  loves  them,  and  the  cause  for  which  they  are  sent  forth  to 
labor,  infinitely  better  than  do  any  of  their  patrons  or  friends  on  earth. 
He  commands  them  to  go,  and  teach  all  the  nations;  and  assures  them  of 
his  presence,  and  of  a  glorious  reward;  but  he  does  not  promise  them 
exemption  from  sickness  or  from  death.  The  field,  in  which  they  are  to 
labor,  and  to  die,  is  the  field  of  unfading  glory;  and  by  the  same  high 
mandate,  which  shall  call  them  to  rest  from  their  labors,  others  will  be 
summoned  to  fill  their  places. 

Our  mission  to  Ceylon  has  been  marked  with  signal  tokens  of  the 
divine  favor;  and  notwithstanding  the  cloud  on  which  our  eyes  have  been 
fixed,  its  general  state  and  prospects  are  highly  encouraging.  The  cli 
mate,  for  a  tropical  one,  is  uncommonly  salubrious;  the  living  is  cheaper 
than  in  almost  any  other  part  of  India;  the  glebes  and  buildings  in  so 
many  pleasant  and  populous  parishes,  assigned  by  the  government  to  the 
mission,  are  acquisitions  of  great  importance;  a  translation  of  the  Scrip 
tures  has  already  been  made  into  the  language  of  the  people;  and  in 


188  REPORT.  1818. 

various  respects  the  facilities  for  communicating  to  them  the  knowledge 
of  the  Gospel,  and  spreading  it  extensively,  are  such  as  are  seldom  found 
in  heathen  lands.  And  it  is  the  purpose  of  your  Committee,  trusting  in 
God,  to  use  all  diligence  in  strengthening  the  mission,  and  all  care  to  pre 
vent  a  failure  of  its  hopes. 

AMERICAN  ABORIGINES. — It  was  on  the  13th  of  January,  1817,  that 
the  Rev.  Mr.  Kingsbury  arrived  atChickamaugah  in  the  Cherokee  nation, 
and  commenced  preparations  for  an  establishment  there.  On  the  7th  of 
the  following  March,  he  was  joined  by  Messrs.  Hall  and  Williams  with 
their  wives.  Before  the  annual  meeting  of  this  Board  in  September, 
they  had  erected,  four  small  log  buildings;  made  considerable  advances 
in  preparations  for  other  and  larger  buildings;  taken  into  their  family, 
and  under  their  instruction,  twenty-six  native  children  and  youth;  and 
done  not  a  little,  for  the  time,  towards  procuring  crops  of  various  produc 
tions,  and  stocking  the  plantation  with  domestic  animals. 

In  the  Report  of  the  last  year,  the  Committee  communicated  their 
design  of  sending  other  missionaries  arid  teachers  to  the  Cherokees,  and 
other  Indian  nations,  as  soon,  and  as  fast,  as  Providence  should  open 
the  way,  and  supply  the  means.  This  design,  which  was  explicitly  ap 
proved  by  the  Board,  has  not  been  forgotten. 

Agreeably  to  arrangements  made  by  the  Committee,  the  Rev.  Daniel 
S.  Butrick  embarked  at  Boston  on  the  13th  of  November,  for  Savannah; 
and  on  the  17th  of  the  same  month,  the  Rev.  Ard  Hoyt,  with  his  family, 
embarked  at  Philadelphia,  for  the  same  port.  On  the  27th,  under  the 
kind  care  of  their  Divine  Master,  they  all  safely  arrived  at  Savannah; 
where  they  were  received  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Kollock  and  other  friends  to 
the  cause,  with  demonstrations  of  affectionate  courtesy,  hospitality,  and 
generosity,  which  they  have  acknowledged  with  expressions  of  lively 
gratitude.  From  Savannah  they  proceeded  with  as  little  delay  as  possi 
ble,  by  the  way  of  Augusta  and  Athens,  to  the  Indian  country,  and  on  the 
3d  of  January,  having  experienced  much  kindness  and  some  affecting  ex 
pressions  of  interest,  from  the  Cherokees  on  their  way,  they  reached  the 
mission  house  at  Chickamaugah. 

Their  feelings  on  the  occasion,  were  expressed  in  the  following  terms. 
"With  satisfaction  inexpressible,  with  joy  unspeakable,  we  are  now  per 
mitted  to  erect  our  Ebenezer  in  this  place,  and  date  Chickamaugah. 
The  Lord  has  been  trying  us  with  mercies  ever  since  we  left  Savannah. 
We  have  met  with  no  disaster;  we  have  not  been  hindered  in  our  journey 
for  a  single  hour  by  the  sickness  of  any  one  of  our  numerous  family;  we 
have  never  felt  the  heart  of  a  stranger:  nor  do  I  know  that  any  one  of 
the  family  has  had  a  gloomy  hour.  You  will  certainly  join  with  us  in 
praising  our  covenant  God  for  his  kind  protecting  providence,  for  his 
abundant  mercy  and  grace. — We  must  leave  you  to  judge  of  our  feelings, 
— to  meet  our  dear  brethren  here,  find  all  well,  and  join  with  them  and 
their  Cherokee  congregation  in  the  public  worship  of  God.  Our  hearts 
are  united;  our  spirits  are  refreshed;  and  we  trust  in  God,  that  in  all  our 
labors,  he  will  cause  us  to  be  of  one  heart  and  one  mind." 

Early  in  December,  the  Rev.  William  Chamberlin  left  Wilkesbarre, 
Pennsylvania,  the  late  residence  of  Mr.  Hoyt,  and  proceeded  to  Pittsburg; 
where,  agreeably  to  appointment,  he  met  the  Rev.  Elisha  P.  Swift,  in 


1818.  REPORT.  189 

concert  with  whom  he  was  to  act  as  an  agent  for  promoting  the  objects 
of  the  Board  in  the  western  states.  After  having  visited  many  of  the 
principal  places  in  Ohio,  Kentucky,  and  Tennessee,  experienced  many 
kindnesses,  and  made  very  considerable  collections  for  the  mission,  he 
arrived  at  Chickamaugah  on  the  10th  of  March. 

Of  the  missionaries,  thus  assembled  at  the  Cherokee  station,  it  was  the 
design  of  your  Committee  that  such  a  disposition  should  be  made,  as 
would  best  serve  the  purposes  of  that  establishment,  and  promote  the  ob 
ject  of  a  similar  establishment,  in  the  Choctaw  nation.  Advices  to  this 
effect  were  duly  communicated;  and  on  the  18th  of  March  the  brethren 
wrote  as  follows.  "Your  suggestions  and  instructions  relative  to  designa 
ting  the  persons,  who  should  go  to  the  Choctaws,  immediately  engaged 
our  prayerful  attention.  After  repeatedly  committing  the  case  to  God, 
and  renewedly  devoting  ourselves  to  him  in  the  work  before  us,  it  was 
given,  unanimously,  as  our  opinion,  that  brother  Kingsbury  and  brother 
and  sister  Williams,  will  be  the  most  suitable  persons  to  select  for  this 
service,  and  that  it  will  not  be  expedient  to  send  any  more  from  this 
establishment  at  present.  The  remainder  of  us,  we  think,  may  be  more 
usefully  employed  here,  and  that  it  may  be  best  to  make  a  distribution  of 
our  labors  somewhat  in  the  following  manner;  viz.  Brother  Hoyt  to  take 
the  fatherly  and  pastoral  care  of  the  institution  and  of  the  church;  brother 
Hall  to  continue  in  his  present  station;  brother  Charnberlin  to  take 
charge  of  the  school  and  superintend  the  labor  and  other  exercises  of  the 
boys  while  out  of  school;  and  brother  Butrick  to  pay  special  attention  to 
the  Cherokee  language  and  act  as  an  evangelist.  We  wish,  also,  as  far 
as  practicable,  to  give  brother  Charnberlin  some  time  to  attend  to  the 
Cherokee  language.  This  distribution  of  our  labors  we  cheerfully  submit 
to  the  Prudential  Committee  to  be  confirmed  or  altered,  as  they,  in  their 
wisdom,  shall  see  fit." 

These  dispositions  were  perfectly  in  agreement  with  the  views  of  the 
Committee,  and  were  accordingly  ratified. 

In  the  latter  part  of  autumn  and  beginning  of  winter,  it  was  found,  to 
the  deep  concern  of  your  Committee,  that  the  health  of  the  Treasurer 
was  seriously  impaired.  It  was  the  opinion  of  his  physicians,  that  re 
laxation  from  business,  and  a  visit  to  the  south,  would  be  the  best  means 
for  his  recovery,  and  were  of  essential  importance.  In  this  afflictive 
emergency,  it  was  his  wish,  not  less  than  that  of  his  colleagues  of  the 
Committee,  that  the  time  of  his  absence  from  home  should  not  be  lost  to 
the  cause  most  dear  to  his  heart.  And  it  was  thought,  that  the  import 
ant  objects  of  the  Board  might  be  greatly  promoted  by  his  acting  at  the 
south  under  a  commission  as  a  general  agent;  and  especially  by  his  vis 
iting  in  his  tour  our  Cherokee  establishment.  Accordingly,  a  special 
arrangement  was  made  for  securing  the  treasury,  and  conducting  the 
business  of  that  department;  and,  on  the  20th  of  January,  he  took  pas 
sage  for  Savannah.  After  spending  about  three  months  in  Georgia  and 
South  Carolina,  visiting  the  principal  places  in  those  states,  and  doing  as 
much  as  the  state  of  his  health  would  permit,  in  the  business  of  his 
agency;  he  proceeded,  by  the  usual  route  from  Augusta,  through  the 
Indian  country  to  Chickamaugah,  where  he  arrived  on  the  8th  of  May. 

About  ten  days  after  his  arrival,  having  had  opportunity  to  make  him 
self  thoroughly  acquainted  with  the  establishment  in  its  various  depart- 


190  REPORT.  1818. 

ments  and  operations,  he  addressed  to  the  Corresponding  Secretary  a 
letter,  containing  a  very  ample  and  interesting  account  of  its  state  and 
concerns.  Of  this  account  the  Committee  think  it  right  to  avail  them 
selves  largely,  under  the  present  head  of  this  Report. 

First,  however,  and  this  they  are  sure  of  the  full  and  affectionate  con 
currence  of  the  Board,  they  would  devoutly  record  their  grateful  ac 
knowledgments  to  the  all-gracious  Disposer,  for  the  Treasurer's  safe 
return,  with  recruited  health;  and  for  the  important  services,  which  he 
has  been  enabled  to  render  to  the  best  of  causes. 

"As  Chickamaugah,"  says  the  Treasurer,  "comprehends  a  considera 
ble  district,  extending  up  and  down  the  creek  of  that  name,  and  includ 
ing  an  Indian  village  near  the  Tennessee,  it  has  been  thought  best  by 
the  missionaries,  Mr.  Cornelius,  and  myself,  that  the  missionary  station 
should  receive  a  new  name:  and  since  I  commenced  this  letter,  we  have 
given  it  the  name  of  Brainerd,  in  affectionate  remembrance  of  that  able, 
devoted  and  successful  missionary.  The  mission  house  is  situated  about 
50  rods  south-west  of  the  creek,  and  two  miles  north-east  of  the  Georgia 
and  Tennessee  road.  It  fronts  the  south-east,  has  the  dining  hall  and 
kitchen  in  the  rear,  and  several  log  cabins  on  each  wing  for  the  accom 
modation  of  the  children  and  some  of  the  missionaries.  There  are 
several  other  log  buildings  for  store  rooms,  corn  houses,  and  stables. 
The  school  house  is  30  rods  to  the  south-west;  and  is  sufficiently  large 
to  accommodate  100  scholars  on  the  Lancasterian  plan,  and  to  answer 
for  a  place  of  public  worship  on  the  Sabbath.  The  cultivated  land  of 
the  mission  farm  lies  in  several  fields,  principally  in  front  of  the  build 
ings,  and  amounts  to  45  acres.  The  creek  here  pursues  a  north-west- 
wardly  direction,  but  below  takes  a  northwardly  course  to  the  Tennessee, 
which  is  distant  15  miles,  following  the  creek,  though  only  6  miles  at 
the  nearest  place.  The  brow  of  the  Lookout  mountain,  immediately 
under  which  the  Tennessee  passes,  is  about  7  miles  distant  in  a  due 
west  course.  The  creek  is  navigable  for  boats  to  the  mission  house.  At 
the  landing  place  is  what  is  called  a  fish  trap,  formed  by  a  partial  dam. 
It  was  rebuilt  the  last  year  and  is  of  great  benefit  to  the  establishment. 
Should  it  prove  as  valuable  in  future  seasons,  as  in  the  two  last,  it  will 
be  worth  more  than  $500,  the  sum  which  the  Board  paid  for  the  im 
provements  of  the  place.  The  fish  are  caught  as  they  pass  down  the 
stream  in  the  night.  No  preparation  is  necessary  to  catch  them.  On 
the  first  morning  after  my  arrival,  about  forty  fish  were  taken,  the  aggre 
gate  weight  of  which  could  not  have  been  Jess  than  150  pounds.  When 
the  water  is  high,  none  are  taken;  but,  except  at  such  times,  they  are 
caught  at  all  seasons  of  the  year.  Once  this  spring  150  were  taken  at  a 
time,  and  the  next  morning  120:  the  largest  weighed  30  pounds,  and  a 
considerable  proportion  from  5  to  10  pounds.  Most  of  them  are  fat  and 
good;  some  excellent,  either  fresh  or  salted.  The  mission  house  and 
other  buildings  stand  on  a  gentle  eminence  and  present  an  agreeable 
appearance.  The  mission  house,  school  house,  dining  hall  and  kitchen, 
are  built  of  hewn  logs,  having  the  insterstices  filled  with  mortar.  The 
first  mentioned  of  these  buildings  has  two  rooms  on  the  lower  floor,  with 
an  open  hall  between  them.  The  upper  story  has  two  lodging  rooms; 
but  when  finished  will  have  four.  The  principal  expense  of  the  build 
ings  is  defrayed  by  government. 


1818.  REPORT.  191 

Since  the  Treasurer  left  Brainerd,  the  mill,  which  has  been  to  the 
brethren  an  object  of  earnest  desire  and  attention,  and  cost  them  much 
labor  and  trouble,  has  been  gotten  into  operation;  and  promises  to  be  of 
great  utility,  not  only  to  the  mission,  but  to  the  nation  extensively. 

"It  was  on  Friday  evening,"  the  Treasurer  proceeds  to  say,  "the  8th 
inst.  (May)  just  at  sun  set,  that  I  alighted  at  the  mission  house.  The 
path  which  leads  to  it  from  the  main  road,  passes  through  an  open  wood, 
which  is  extremely  beautiful  at  this  season  of  the  year.  The  mild  radi 
ance  of  the  setting  sun,  the  unbroken  solitude  of  the  wilderness,  the  pleas 
antness  of  the  forest  with  all  its  springing  and  blossoming  vegetation,  the 
object  of  my  journey,  and  the  nature  and  design  of  the  institution  I  was 
about  to  visit,  conspired  to  render  the  scene  solemn  and  interesting,  and 
to  fill  the  mind  with  tender  emotions. 

"Early  in  the  evening  the  children  of  the  school,  being  informed  that 
one  of  their  northern  friends,  whom  they  had  been  expecting,  had  ar 
rived,  eagerly  assembled  in  the  hall,  and  were  drawn  up  in  ranks  and 
particularly  introduced.  They  are  neither  shy  nor  forward  in  their 
manners.  To  a  stranger  they  appear  not  less  interesting  than  other  chil 
dren  of  the  same  age:  but  if  he  considers  their  circumstances  and  pros 
pects,  incomparably  more  so. 

"At  evening  prayers,  I  was  forcibly  struck  with  the  stillness,  order, 
and  decorum  of  the  children,  and  with  the  solemnity  of  the  family  wor 
ship.  A  portion  of  Scripture  was  read  with  Scott's  practical  observa 
tions;  a  hymn  was  sung,  in  which  a  large  portion  of  the  children  united; 
and  Mr.  Hoyt  led  the  devotions  of  the  numerous  family.  If  all  the 
members  of  the  Board  could  hear  the  prayers,  which  are  daily  offered  in 
their  behalf  at  this  station,  (and  I  presume  at  all  others  under  their  su 
perintendence;)  and  if  all  patrons  and  contributors  could  hear  the  thanks, 
which  are  returned  to  God  for  their  liberality;  and  especially  if  they 
could  see  a  large  circle  of  children,  lately  rescued  from  heathenism, 
kneeling  with  apparent  seriousness  and  engaging  in  the  solemnities  of 
Christian  worship,  one  of  them  already  a  hopeful  convert,  and  others 
thoughtful  and  inquiring; — if  all  these  things  could  be  seen,  one  may 
safely  predict,  that  the  exertions  and  sacrifices  of  the  friends  of  missions 
would  be  increased  fourfold.  These  things  are  not  less  real,  however, 
because  they  cannot  be  seen  by  every  friend  to  the  cause. 

"The  mission  family,  when  assembled  for  prayers,  consists  of  the  mis 
sionaries  and  their  wives,  Mr.  Hoyt's  children,  the  Cherokee  children, 
occasional  visitors,  the  hired  men,  and  the  kitchen  domestics.  All  these 
make  a  goodly  number.  The  missionaries  lead  at  family  prayers  in  ro 
tation.  The  children  are  called  together  by  the  house  bell;  at  the  close 
of  the  evening  prayers  they  are  wished  a  good  night,  which  they  recip 
rocate;  and  soon  afterwards  the  horn  is  blown,  as  a  signal  for  them  to 
retire  to  rest. 

"Half  an  hour  before  sunrise  the  horn  is  blown  as  a  signal  to  rise;  and 
just  as  the  sun  appears  above  the  horizon  the  family  assemble  in  the  hall 
for  morning  worship.  After  prayers  the  children  proceed  to  their  differ 
ent  employments.  The  boys,  as  they  come  from  the  hall,  file  off  to  the 
right,  and  form  in  a  straight  line;  the  girls  to  the  left,  to  a  log  cabin  as 
signed  for  their  accommodation.  The  boys  are  immediately  joined  by 
Mr.  Chamberlin,  their  instructor,  who  has  the  charge  of  them  from  the 


192  REPORT.  1818. 

blowing  of  the  horn  in  the  morning,  till  it  is  blown  at  nine  in  the  evening. 
During  the  whole  of  this  time  he  is  with  them,  except  the  interval  at 
noon;  and  then  they  are  under  his  superintendence.  They  join  the  rank 
with  great  alertness  in  the  morning,  as  tickets  are  given  to  those  who  are 
most  distinguished  for  quickness  and  punctuality;  and  the  fine  of  a  ticket 
is  imposed  upon  any  one  who  shall  be  culpably  dilatory.  These  tickets, 
which  are  given  as  rewards  on  other  occasions  also,  answer  the  purpose 
of  a  circulating  medium  among  the  boys,  as  they  are  redeemed  with  little 
books,  or  such  articles  as  the  holders  need.  As  soon  as  the  rank  is  form 
ed,  the  boys  are  despatched  to  the  various  employments  assigned  them. 
Those  employments  which  are  of  a  permanent  nature,  are  assigned  by  the 
week,  so  that  there  is  a  change  of  labor.  Occasional  services  are  per 
formed  by  a  detachment  for  the  occasion.  Some  are  sent  to  dress  the 
fish,  when  they  are  taken;  some  to  assist  in  milking  the  cows;  some  to 
hoe  in  the  garden;  some  to  pound  the  corn,  &c.  Some  of  the  boys  are 
too  small  to  do  any  thing;  but,  after  all  the  abovementioned  services  are 
provided  for,  Mr.  Chamberlin  has  commonly  about  ten  active  lads  to 
take  with  him  to  the  field.  On  one  morning  since  my  arrival,  they  plant 
ed  an  acre  of  corn  before  breakfast;  on  another  they  planted  six  or 
seven  bushels  of  potatoes,  the  hills  being  prepared;  and  these  are  fair 
specimens  of  their  morning  labor.  When  breakfast  is  ready,  the  various 
family  is  called  together  by  the  horn.  Two  long  tables  are  supplied  with 
wholesome  and  palatable,  though  plain  food.  One  of  Mr.  Hoyt's  daugh 
ters  sits  at  the  head  of  each  table;  Mr.  Hoyt  and  Mr.  Kingsbury  at  the 
other  end;  and  the  other  missionaries,  where  it  is  most  convenient.  The 
boys  sit  at  one  table,  the  girls  occasional  visitors,  and  hired  men  at  the 
other.  They  take  their  seats  at  table  as  they  enter  the  room;  and  when 
all,  or  nearly  all,  are  seated,  a  blessing  is  pronounced.  Till  the  bless 
ing  is  concluded,  not  one  touches  his  knife  and  fork,  or  plate;  nor  is  the 
slightest  impatience  discovered,  as  is  common  among  children  in  civil 
ized  society.  The  most  entire  stillness  and  decorum  prevail,  while  a 
blessing  is  asked  and  thanks  returned,  as  well  as  at  family  prayers.  The 
behavior  of  the  children  while  eating  is  very  decent;  and  they  are  less 
noisy,  than  any  equal  number  of  young  persons  whom  I  ever  saw  to 
gether.  The  stillness  arises  in  part  no  doubt,  from  the  fact,  that  many  of 
them  do  not  speak  English  readily;  and  are  therefore  rather  bashful  about 
speaking  at  all,  either  in  English,  or  their  own  tongue.  Some  cannot 
speak  a  word  of  our  language  on  their  first  arrival.  After  breakfast 
there  is  another  period  of  labor,  which  lasts  till  nearly  nine,  when  the 
school  commences.  The  morning  labor  is  about  equally  divided  by 
breakfast,  and  amounts  to  about  two  hours  and  a  half.  To  this  is  to  be 
added  an  hour's  labor  in  the  evening.  The  only  time  the  boys  have  for 
play  is  a  little  while  before  dinner,  and  again  at  dusk.  They  labor  as 
cheerfully,  and  as  effectually,  as  any  company  of  boys  I  ever  saw.  They 
handle  axes  and  hoes  with  great  dexterity. 

"I  have  been  more  particular  on  this  subject,  as  it  has  often  been  said, 
that  the  children  of  Indians  cannot  be  taught  to  work. 

"Each  detachment  of  boys  has  a  leader,  even  when  no  more  than 
two  are  employed  upon  a  service.  When  all  are  convened,  they  meet  at 
the  sound  of  the  whistle. 


1818,  REPORT.  193 

"The  school  is  opened  by  reading  a  portion  of  Scripture,   singing  a 
hymn  and  prayer;    arid   closed  by  prayer  and  singing.     It  is  conducted 
upon  the  Lancasterian  plan,  a  plan  not  only  excellent  in  itself,  but  pecu 
liarly  suited  to  catch   the   attention  of  Indian  children.     The  principal 
exercises  are  reading,   writing  on  sand,  slates,  and  paper,  spelling  and 
arithmetic.     None  have  yet  commenced  the  study  of  grammar.     Of  the 
writing   I   hope   to   shew  you    specimens.     Fifteen  read   in   the   Bible. 
They  have  attended  school  from  eight  to  twelve  months,  and  more  than 
half  began  with  the  alphabet.     This  class  would  be  considered  as  read 
ing  and  spelling  pretty  well  for  children  of  the  same  age  (from  ten  to  fif 
teen)  in  one  of  our  common   schools  at  the  north;  and  1   think  such  a 
fact  indicates   uncommon    assiduity  on   the    part  of   their  instructors. 
Eleven  others,  all  of  whom  began  with  the  alphabet,  can  read  intelligi 
bly  in  easy  lessons.     Eighteen  have  commenced  writing  on  paper.  There 
are  now  in  the   school  forty-seven  Cherokee  children,  Mr.  Hoyt's  two 
youngest  sons,   and  two  other  white  boys.     The  two  latter  will  stay  a 
short   time;     and   were  admitted  from   peculiar  circumstances.     These 
numbers  have  been  just  ascertained  by  Mr.  Kingsbury,  for  the  purpose 
of  making  out  his  report  to  the  Secretary  at  War.     Fourteen  are  full 
blooded  Cherokees;  the  remainder  of  different  degrees  of  Indian  blood. 
"When  the  girls  are  out  of  school,  they  are  under  the  charge  of  Mr. 
Hoyt's  second  daughter,  now  Mrs.  Chamberlin.     They  are  all  (sixteen 
in  number)  lodged  in  one  log  cabin  which  has  a  chamber.  Here  all  their 
domestic  industry  is  carried  on.     Two  spin,  two  card,  and  the  rest  sew 
and  knit.     They  wash,  mend,  and  often  make  their  own  clothes,   and 
assist  in  mending  the  clothes  of  the  boys.    Mrs.  C.  prays  with  them  every 
evening;  and   they    unite  in  singing  a  hymn.     When   engaged  in  their 
work,  they  are  often  overheard  singing.     Mrs.  C.  says,  that  the  girls  are 
remarkably  good  tempered.     They  have  few  disagreements  among  them 
selves;  and  three  or  four  of  them  have  never  been  out  of  humor  in  the 
least.     The  boys  also  are   represented  as  mild   and  gentle  in  their  tem 
pers;  and  as  much  less  apt  to  quarrel  than    an  equal  number  of  white 
boys.     From   my  own  observation,  I  can    state,  that  there  is  much  less 
noise  and  disturbance  about  the  house,  than  is  common  with  half  the 
same  number  of  children   among  ourselves.     It  is  said  to  be  a  general 
characteristic  of  the  Cherokees,  that  they  are  mild,  and  not  apt  to  quar 
rel,  unless  inflamed  by  whiskey. 

"A  Sabbath  school,  for  the  instruction  of  blacks,  has  been  kept  up 
since  last  summer.  The  improvement  which  a  number  of  them  have 
made,  is  truly  wonderful.  A  man  of  thirty  years,  who  only  knew  the 
alphabet  when  the  school  commenced,  can  now  read  a  chapter,  or  a 
psalm,  very  decently.  A  boy  of  fifteen,  who  did  not  know  a  single  let 
ter,  can  now  read  very  well  in  the  Testament.  Several  others  have  be 
gun  to  read  the  Bible.  The  greater  part  come  six  miles,  or  more,  to 
meeting;  some  fifteen  or  twenty  on  foot;  and  none  less  than  two  miles 
and  a  half.  The  number  has  varied  from  10  to  25.  Mr.  Hall  has  paid 
particular  attention  to  this  school.  The  season  for  instructing  these 
people  is  at  the  close  of  public  worship.  Several  of  them  are  under  se 
rious  impressions;  and  all  pay  the  strictest  attention  to  religious  services. 
They  sing  a  hymn  before  the  school  is  dismissed,  and  a  prayer  is  offered 
by  the  instructor." 

25 


194  REPORT.  1818. 

Your  Committee  have  deemed  it  important,  that  at  every  missionary 
station  a  church  should  be  duly  organized,  as  soon  as  circumstances  permit, 
for  the  regular  administration  of  Christian  ordinances  and  Christian  dis 
cipline.  This  has  been  particularly  recommended,  in  the  instructions 
given  to  the  missionaries.  In  a  joint  letter  of  the  brethren  at  the  Che 
rokee  station,  they  say — "On  the  last  Sabbath  in  September,  a  church 
was  organized  in  this  place,  and  we  solemnly  renewed  our  covenant  with 
God  and  with  each  other.  We  should  have  done  this  at  an  earlier  pe 
riod;  but  hearing  that  brother  Cornelius  was  on  his  way  to  this  country, 
we  were  anxious  that  he  should  be  present  on  this  interesting  occasion. 
At  present  our  church  consists  of  only  the  missionary  brethren  and  sis 
ters;  but  we  hope  soon  to  be  able  to  number  some,  who  have  recently 
been  brought  into  the  kingdom  of  the  Redeemer.5' 

The  ground  of  the  hope  here  expressed  may  appear  from  what  is  fur 
ther  stated  in  the  same  letter.  "We  are  now  able  to  tell  you  what  the 
Lord  is  doing  among  us  for  the  glory  of  his  name.  And  though  it  be 
but  the  day  of  small  things,  we  know  that  it  will  rejoice  your  hearts,  as 
it  has  done  ours,  when  you  hear,  that  the  Lord  Jesus  is  bringing  into  his 
kingdom  some  of  the  sons  and  daughters  of  the  western  forests.  For 
some  time  past  we  have  had  the  satisfaction  to  witness  a  pleasing  change 
in  the  conduct  of  some  of  our  neighbors,  who  on  the  Sabbath  attended 
our  religious  worship.  Two  white  men,  in  our  neighborhood,  who  had 
been  profane  and  immoral,  became  sober  and  serious.  One  Cherokee 
woman,  who  had  a  tolerably  good  education,  and  who  is  married  to  a 
white  man,  appeared  to  be  under  very  serious  impressions.  Such  was 
the  state  of  things,  when  brother  Cornelius  arrived  at  our  station.  His 
conversation  and  preaching  excited  an  increased  attention,  both  among 
the  Cherokees  and  white  people  around  us.  Our  assembly  on  the  Sab 
bath  was  increased.  The  last  Sabbath  that  he  preached,  which  was  the 
first  Sabbath  in  November,  a  very  solemn  impression  was  made  on  the 
minds  of  several.  One  white  man,  one  Cherokee  man,  the  woman  above 
mentioned,  and  a  Cherokee  girl  who  was  attending  our  school,  were 
much  affected.  The  Cherokee  man  is  a  half  breed,  by  the  name  of 
Charles  Reece,  and  speaks  our  language  tolerably  well.  He  was  one  of 
the  three  intrepid  Cherokees,  who  at  the  battle  of  the  Horse-shoe,  swam 
the  river  in  the  face  of  the  enemy  and  brought  off  their  canoes  in  tri 
umph.  It  was  interesting  to  see  this  undaunted  warrior  bowing  before 
the  influence  of  the  gospel.  After  the  public  exercises,  Mr.  Cornelius 
conversed  with  him.  He  sunk  upon  his  feet,  as  if  deprived  of  strength, 
said  he  knew  not  what  to  say.  He  felt  as  he  never  did  before.  This 
man  has  repeatedly  visited  us  since,  and  says  it  is  his  fixed  determination 
to  be  a  disciple  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  it  is  his  great  desire  to  know 
and  do  the  will  of  God." 

The  animating  hopes  inspired  by  these  encouraging  circumstances 
have  not  been  disappointed.  The  Treasurer,  in  his  letter  says,  "You 
have  been  informed  of  the  admission  of  five  native  converts,  and  one 
white  man  to  the  little  church,  which  the  Lord  has  planted  here.  On 
the  first  Sabbath  in  this  month,  Mr.  Hoyt's  youngest  daughter,  who  had, 
as  was  hoped,  experienced  a  saving  change  since  the  family  arrived  at 
this  place,  was  admitted  to  communion.  At  the  same  time  a  black 
woman  was  also  admitted.  The  second  Sabbath  after  my  arrival,  a  col- 


1818.  REPORT.  195 

ored  man  was  added  to  the  church;  so  that  it  now  contains  nine  persons, 
whom,  as  we  trust,  the  Lord  has  called,  within  a  few  months  past,  to  be 
heirs  of  his  kingdom. 

"The  general  deportment  of  all  who  have  joined  the  mission  church, 
is  such  as  to  afford  increasing  evidence,  that  they  are  what  they  profess 
to  be,  the  disciples  of  Christ.  Though  God  alone  can  search  the  heart, 
and  we  must  expect  mistakes  and  disappointments,  in  our  judgment  of 
Christian  character,  it  is  no  more  than  gratitude  to  the  Giver  of  all  good, 
to  acknowledge  his  kind  interposition  in  behalf  of  any,  who  were  recently 
in  a  state  of  total  ignorance  of  Him,  and  of  the  salvation  which  he  has 
revealed." 

With  a  view  to  strengthen  public  confidence  extensively,  and  in  various 
respects  to  promote  the  interests  of  the  institution,  your  Committee  have 
adjudged  it  advisable  that  there  should  be  a  Visiting  Committee  of  this 
Cherokee  school,  composed  of  characters  of  established  respectability, 
and  not  too  far  distant  from  the  station.  The  gentlemen  designated  for 
this  purpose,  are  Col.  R.  J.  Meigs,  agent  of  the  government  in  the  Che 
rokee  nation,  Rev.  Isaac  Anderson,  Maryville,  Blount  county,  (Ten.) 
Col.  Daniel  Campbell  and  Col.  Francis  A.  Ramsay,  Knox  county,  and 
Rev.  Matthew  Donald  and  Daniel  Rawlings,  Esq.  Rhea  county.  In  the 
commission  given  them,  they  "are  requested  to  make  an  annual  visita 
tion  of  the  school,  for  the  purpose  of  examining  its  general  state  and 
management,  its  expenditures  and  improvements;  and  making  a  report  to 
be  exhibited  to  the  Board,  to  the  United  States  government,  and  to  the 
public."  Their  first  visitation  was  in  the  last  of  May,  a  few  days  after 
the  Treasurer  left  the  station;  and  their  Report,  which  will  be  communi 
cated  to  this  Board,  is  at  all  points  in  perfect  agreement  with  his  account 
of  the  establishment.  In  regard  to  the  state  of  the  church  and  the  gra 
cious  influences  with  which  the  Father  of  lights  has  been  pleased  to  bless 
the  institution,  the  Report  is  as  interesting  and  affecting,  as  it  is  explicit 
and  full. 

"Your  Committee,"  they  say,  "tarried  at  the  missionary  station,  until 
after  the  Sabbath,  that  we  might  have  an  opportunity  of  observing  the 
moral  and  religious  influence,  which  this  institution  has  had  on  the 
scholars,  and  neighborhood.  On  the  Lord's  day,  the  sacrament  of  the 
supper  was  administered.  A  congregation  of  more  than  100  collected, 
of  Cherokees,  Africans,  and  some  whites.  During  divine  service  the 
people  were  composed,  very  attentive,  and  many  of  them  solemn,  and 
some  tender.  Five  of  the  natives  joined  in  the  communion,  one  of  them 
a  young  female,  aged  about  18,  a  member  of  the  school,  the  others  live 
in  the  neighborhood.  Two  blacks  also  joined,  one  of  them  a  freed  man, 
the  other  a  female  slave.  We  conversed  particularly  with  most  of  them 
on  their  knowledge  of  the  gospel,  and  their  experimental  acquaintance 
with  religion.  We  were  truly  pleased  with  the  scriptural  and  feeling  ac 
count  they  gave,  of  Christ  formed  in  them  the  hope  of  glory.  We 
had  similar  conversation  with  several  others,  who  had  not  yet  been  united 
with  the  church,  but  who  gave  good  evidence  of  a  saving  change  of 
heart,  particularly  with  two  Indians  and  two  white  men,  connected  with 
Indian  families.  These  four  would  readily  be  admitted  into  the  church, 
where  less  caution  was  necessary,  than  in  an  infant  church  in  a  heathen 
land.  One  of  these  was  a  very  old  Indian  woman  who  could  not  speak 


196  REPORT.  1818. 

English,  but  could  understand  what  was  said  to  her,  and  had  to  answer 
us  by  an  interpreter.  She  lamented  that  she  hadfnot  heard  the  word  of 
God  when  young;  but  said,  that  since  she  had  heard  it,  she  had  tried  to 
do  good.  Her  knowledge  of  divine  subjects  was  really  surprising.  She 
was  much  affected  during  divine  service.  One,  who  had  joined  the 
church  said,  that  he  had  been  made  to  see  himself  so  vile  a  sinner,  that 
when  walking  about  in  deep  distress,  he  felt  that  he  was  not  worthy  to  walk 
upon  the  earth.  All,  with  whom  we  conversed,  expressed  a  deep  sense 
of  their  sinfulness  and  guilt,  and  of  their  need  of  a  Savior."  After  re 
lating  here  several  particulars,  respecting  the  female  member  of  the 
school  and  of  the  church,  mentioned  before  as  being  eighteen  years  of 
age,  and  of  whom  a  more  detailed  and  very  interesting  account  is  given 
by  the  Treasurer,  the  Report  proceeds  to  say;  "When  she  first  came  to 
the  school,  we  were  informed  she  was  proud  and  haughty,  and  loaded 
with  ear-rings  and  trinkets.  She  is  now  modest  and  amiable;  has  strip 
ped  off  the  greatest  part  of  her  ornaments,  and  consecrated  them  to  the 
Board  of  Foreign  Missions,  as  did  another  of  the  natives  since  she 
joined  the  church.  This  young  female  is  now  an  active  member  of  a 
praying  society  of  females.  Would  not  many  mothers  in  Israel  blush 
before  the  example  and  zeal  of  this  girl?  Is  not  the  Lord  raising  her  up 
and  qualifying  her  for  a  missionary?  For  this  work  she  has  an  ardent 
zeal. 

"There  are  some  others  under  religious  impressions,  with  whom  we 
had  no  opportunity  of  conversation.  Numbers  of  the  congregation  came 
ten,  fifteen,  and  even  twenty  miles  to  be  at  church.  We  were  told  that 
when  taking  a  walk  morning  or  evening,  little  girls,  from  eight  to  twelve 
years  of  age  may  be  heard  praying  in  secret  places;  and  we  observed 
several  of  them  very  serious,  and  attentive  to  divine  things. 

"  "From  what  we  have  seen  in  this  school  and  neighborhood,  we  are 
convinced,  that  the  direct  way  to  civilize  a  heathen  people,  is  to  Chris 
tianize  them. 

"Surely  the  Lord  is  in  this  place,  the  work  is  his;  and  it  is  marvellous 
in  our  eyes.  Will  not  Christians  be  encouraged  to  pray  for  its  prosper 
ity?  Will  they  not  cheerfully  support  it  by  their  liberality?  To  meet  one 
of  these  souls  in  heaven  rescued  from  eternal  gloom  by  the  instrumen 
tality  of  Christian  exertion,  oh  what  an  unspeakable  joy!  The  Lord  may 
rescue  them  speedily;  the  present  appearances  are  encouraging." 

Still  more  recent  intelligence  of  the  same  refreshing,  animating  kind 
has  been  received.  Under  date  of  July  25,  within  about  six  weeks  of 
the  present  time,  the  brethren  write,  "Next  Sabbath  we  expect  to  admit 
to  the  church  two  people  of  color,  who  give  satisfactory  evidence,  that, 
within  a  few  months  past,  they  have  been  converted  to  God.  We  have 
also  hopes  for  two  Cherokee  women;  one  of  them  the  wife  of  the  man  of 
whom  the  mission  place  was  bought.  She  is  perhaps  as  universally  re 
spected  and  beloved,  as  any  woman  of  the  nation.  She  has  been  a 
constant  attendant  on  the  means  of  grace,  since  the  commencement  of 
this  mission." 

In  a  communication  of  a  date  a  few  days  earlier,  they  say;  "The  gen 
eral  state  of  the  church  has  been  prosperous;  the  new  converts,  for  aught 
that  appears,  have  walked  steadfastly  and  uprightly  in  the  ways  of  truth; 
and  so  far  as  we  know,  the  church  has  favor  with  all  the  people." — "Our 


1818.  REPORT.  197 

children  have  been  more  obedient,  faithful,  and  industrious  than  could 
have  been  expected.  We  believe  the  natives  are  well  satisfied,  as'  to 
the  manner  in  which  the  school  is  conducted,  and  the  general  treatment 
of  their  children.  We  hear  no  complaint." — "Our  school  of  blacks 
continues  to  prosper.  The  colored  man,  who  has  been  received  into  the 
church,  is  a  very  dear  brother,  and  promises  great  usefulness  to  the  other 
people  of  color.  His  heart  is  fixed,  and  much  engaged  to  instruct  them 
all  he  can." 

"The  season  of  the  year  has  been  ordered  very  favorably  in  this  part 
of  the  country.  We  have  about  seven  acres  of  rye  and  oats,  which  we 
are  now  gathering  in,  more  than  thirty  acres  of  corn,  about  three  acres 
of  Irish  and  two  of  sweet  potatoes;  and  a  small  patch  of  cotton.  All 
these  look  well,  excepting  the  cotton." 

Eighteen  months  ago,  at  the  place  now  called  Brainerd,  and  conse 
crated  to  the  Savior  of  men,  Mr.  Kingsbury  was  a  solitary  stranger  in 
the  midst  of  a  wide  wilderness — (there  not  being  a  single  individual, 
within  many  miles  of  him,  who  knew  the  Lord  Jesus,) — and,. like  his 
Divine  Master,  not  having  where  to  lay  his  head.  Now,  there  are  com 
modious  buildings  of  various  descriptions — large  and  fruitful  fields — 
herds  and  flocks  not  inconsiderable  in  numbers — a  school,  consisting  of 
about  sixty  children  and  youth,  collected  from  the  surrounding  forests, 
comfortably  lodged  and  fed,  instructed  for  the  present  world  and  for  the 
world  to  come,  and  about  twenty  of  them  already  able  to  read  well  in  the 
Bible; — and  a  church  established  on  the  foundation  of  the  apostles  and 
prophets,  and  to  which,  within  six  months  have  been  added  ten  or  twelve, 
who  before  were  strangers  and  foreigners,  having  no  God  in  the 
world! — The  people  who  were  sitting  in  darkness  now  see  a  great  light. 
The  land,  which  for  long  and  dreary  ages  lay  in  the  shadow  of  death,  is 
now  cheered  with  exhibitions  of  heavenly  glory,  and  made  vocal  with 
the  songs  of  the  redeemed. 

"Such  are  the  riches  of  divine  goodness.  "When  the  poor  and  needy 
seek  water,  and  there  is  none,  and  their  tongue  faileth  for  thirst,  Jehovah 
will  hear  them,  the  God  of  Israel  will  not  forsake  them.  He  will  open 
rivers  in  high  places,  and  fountains  in  the  midst  of  the  vallies:  he  will 
make  the  wilderness  a  pool  of  water,  and  the  dry  land  springs  of  water. 
He  will  plant  in  the  wilderness  the  cedar,  and  the  shittah  tree,  and  the 
myrtle,  and  the  oil  tree;  .and  set  in  the  desert  the  fir  tree,  and  the  pine 
tree,  and  the  box  tree  together:  that  they  may  see,  and  know,  and  con 
sider,  and  understand  together,  that  the  hand  of  the  Lord  hath  done  this, 
and  the  Holy  One  of  Israel  hath  created  it." 

The  facts  now  reported  have  the  weight  and  conclusiveness  of  a  thou 
sand  arguments  in  proof  of  three  important  points;  viz.  that  it  is  not  a 
vain  thing  to  attempt  the  conversion  of  the  Indians;  that  they  may  be 
brought  to  the  knowledge  of  Christ,  before  they  are  advanced  in  civiliza 
tion;  and  that  the  plan  of  instructing  them  in  English  is  feasible  and 
eligible. 

It  is  a  truth,  worthy  to  be  repeated,  until  it  reach  the  mind  and  heart 
of  every  friend  of  God  and  men  in  these  Christian  states,  that,  in  pro 
portion  to  time  and  means  employed,  no  missions  to  the  heathen,  since 
the  apostolic  age,  have  been  more  successful,  than  those  to  the  American 
aborigines. 


198  REPORT.  1818. 

Nor  has  the  success,  in  manifest  conversions  to  God,  and  in  fruits 
meet  for  repentance,  been  delayed  until  the  plastic  hand  of  civilization 
had  prepared  the  way.  In  the  days  of  Elliot,  of  the  Mayhews,  and  of 
Brainerd,  and  now  in  our  own  day,  rude  children  of  nature  and  of  the 
forest — men  and  women  and  young  persons  of  both  sexes — have  had 
their  understandings  enlightened  and  their  hearts  opened  to  receive  the 
gospel,  and  have  become  humble  and  exemplary  followers  of  the  Lord 
Jesus.  The  facts  are  as  encouraging  as  they  are  incontrovertible.  They 
are  encouraging,  in  regard  not  only  to  the  spiritual  interests  of  the  untutor 
ed  tribes,  but  also  to  the  melioration  of  their  temporal  condition.  What  so 
efficacious  for  subduing  the  ferocious  spirit,  and  restraining  the  roving 
inclinations  of  the  savage,  as  the  renovating  grace  of  the  gospel?  What 
like  this  to  engage  the  mind  of  the  noblest  objects,  and  to  generate  and 
animate  the  desire  for  general  improvement?  It  was  by  means  of  the 
gospel  that  the  nations  of  Europe  were  civilized;  and  by  means  of  the 
gospel  may  the  tribes  of  the  American  wilderness  be  civilized. 

The  gospel  prompts  to  general  education.  But  tedious  would  be  the 
process  and  slow  the  advances  of  education  in  the  vernacular  languages 
of  those  natives,  whose  minds  are  altogether  unlettered,  and  their  lan 
guages  unwritten.  Most  auspiciously  it  is  found,  that  the  obstacles  which 
have  been  supposed  to  lie  in  the  way  of  teaching  them  in  English,  are 
rather  imaginary  than  real.  They  are  willing  to  be  taught,  are  desirous 
of  being  taught,  and  of  having  their  children  taught,  in  English;  and 
experiments  at  our  establishment  have  proved,  that  Indian  children, 
eight  years  old  and  upwards,  may  be  taken  from  the  wigwams,  and  in 
one  year  be  brought  forward  to  read  with  a  good  degree  of  correctness 
and  facility  in  the  English  Bible.  In  the  mean  time,  they  are  making 
proportionate  proficiency  in  speaking  and  understanding  the  language, 
and  in  various  branches  of  improvement. 

The  necessity,  then,  of  making  translations  of  the  Scriptures,  and  of 
elementary  books,  into  the  vernacular  languages,  is  superseded,  and  the 
labor  and  time  and  expense  of  doing*  it  are  saved.  If  indeed  Bibles  and 
other  books  were  already  at  hand  in  those  languages,  it  would  be  ex 
tremely  questionable,  whether  any  considerable  use  should  be  made  of 
them.  The  Indians,  old  or  young,  would  derive  no  benefit  from  them, 
until  taught  to  read.  But  the  young  may  as  well  be  taught  in  English 
books  as  in  Indian;  and  the  old  would  no  sooner  learn  to  read  in  Indian 
than  in  English;  and  when  once  taught  in  English,  they  are  brought  into 
a  new  world,  and  the  treasures  of  knowledge,  and  the  arts  of  civilized 
life,  are  laid  open  to  them. 

Fully  persuaded  of  the  soundness  and  efficacy  of  the  system,  now 
brought  into  operation,  and  animated  by  its  success  in  the  Cherokee  na 
tion,  your  Committee  have  been  earnest  in  the  desire  of  imparting  the 
benefits  of  it  to  other  tribes. 

CHOCTAWS. — The  Rev.  Mr.  Cornelius,  whose  zealous  and  able  ser 
vices  as  an  agent  of  this  Board  continue  to  entitle  him  to  very  grateful 
notice,  agreeably  to  his  instructions  visited,  in  the  course  of  the  last  au 
tumn,  not  only  the  Cherokees,  but  also  the  Chickasaws  and  Choctaws; 
and  he  saw  a  large  council  of  Creeks  within  the  Cherokee  limits.  Every 
where  he  was  kindly  received,  and  found  dispositions  highly  favorable  to 


1818.  REPORT.  199 

the  objects  of  the  mission.  The  Creeks  wished  for  time  to  consider; 
but  the  Chickasaws  and  Choctaws  shewed  not  only  a  readiness,  but 
an  ardent  desire,  to  have  establishments,  such  as  that  at  Brainerd,  com 
menced  among  them. — The  United  States  government,  also,  has  engaged 
to  afford  the  same  patronage  and  aid  to  establishments  for  the  benefit  of 
each  of  these  nations,  as  for  the  Cherokees. 

Being  satisfied  that  there  was  an  open  door,  your  Committee  resolved 
on  commencing  an  establishment  in  the  Choctaw  nation  without  loss  of 
time.  This  is  the  largest  nation  of  the  four,  consisting  of  about  twenty 
thousand  souls.  They  have  a  fine  country,  are  possessed  of  considera 
ble  wealth,  and  have  strong  tendencies  toward  a  civilized  state.  The 
government  agent,  Col.  M'Kee,  takes  a  lively  interest  in  their  welfare, 
and  is  disposed  to  exert  his  great  influence  in  favor  of  our  design. 

The  Rev.  Mr.  Kingsbury's  acquaintance  with  the  native  character,  his 
high  standing  in  the  esteem  and  confidence  of  both  red  men  and  white,  and 
the  experience,  which  he  had  in  commencing  and  advancing  the  estab 
lishment  at  Brainerd,  combined  to  render  it,  in  the  view  of  the  Commit 
tee,  highly  important,  that  the  superintendence  of  the  Choctaw  mission 
should  be  committed  to  him.  He  consented  to  the  proposal  with  his  won 
ted  alacrity;  and,  in  pursuance  of  arrangements  made  for  the  purpose,  he 
and  Mr.  Williams  and  his  wife  left  Brainerd  about  the  first  of  June,  and 
arrived  at  Yalo  Busha,  in  the  Choctaw  nation,  in  about  four  weeks. 

The  mutual  attachments  subsisting  between  these  beloved  persons,  and 
the  rest  of  the  mission  family,  including  the  Cherokee  youth  and  children  , 
were  of  the  strongest,  most  endearing,  and  most  sacred  kind;  and  the 
scenes  of  parting  were  marked  with  a  tenderness,  and  a  fervor  of  Chris 
tian  feeling,  not  easy  to  be  described,  nor  soon  to  be  forgotten. 

About  the  middle  of  June,  Mr.  Peter  Kanouse,  and  Mr.  John  G.  Ka- 
nouse  and  his  wife,  from  Rockaway,  N.  J.,  and  Mr.  Moses  Jewell  and  his 
wife,  from  Chenango  County,  N.  5f.,  embarked  at  New- York,  having 
been  designated  as  assistants  in  the  Choctaw  mission.  They  arrived  at 
New-Orleans,  on  the  24th  of  July,  where  they  received  from  several  per 
sons  distinguished  marks  of  kindness  and  Christian  attention;  and  on  the 
28th  took  the  steamboat  for  Natchez.  Of  a  later  date  no  intelligence 
has  been  received  from  them;  but  the  hope  is  entertained,  that  by  the 
kind  providence  of  God  they  have  been  carried  safely  to  the  place  of  their 
destination;*  where  they  would  be  welcomed  by  Messrs.  Kingsbury  and 
Williams,  with  great  joy  and  thanksgiving,  and  engage,  it  is  believed, 
with  most  cheerful  self-devotement,  in  the  concerns  of  the  establishment. 

The  seat  of  this  mission  is  about  400  miles  south-westerly,  from  Brai 
nerd;  and  near  the  Yalo  Busha  creek;  abour  30  miles  above  its  June* 
tion,  with  the  Yazoo.  It  is  in  a  fine  country,  in  a  situation  supposed 
to  be  salubrious;  and  by  the  Yalo  Busha,  the  Yazoo,  and  the  Missis 
sippi,  will  have  a  water  communication  with  Natchez  and  New  Or 
leans. 

The  first  care  of  Messrs.  Kingsbury  and  Williams,  was  to  select  a 
suitable  spot,  and  make  arrangements  for  erecting  the  necessary  build 
ings.  In  this  work  they  were  assured  of  every  assistance  which  the  agent, 
Col.  M'Kee,  could  afford  them;  but  many  difficulties  were  to  be  encoun- 

*  They  arrived  in  comfortable  health,  but  worn  with  fatigue,  on  the  29th  of  August. 


200  REPORT.  1818. 

tered,  and  for  want  of  good  laborers,  the  work  for  some  time  must  proceed 
slowly. 

At  the  latest  date,  July  30th,  Mr.  Kingsbury  writes,  "The  half  breeds 
and  natives,  who  understand  our  object,  appear  highly  gratified,  and 
treat  us  with  much  kindness;  though  there  are  not  wanting  those,  who 
,  look  up  on  all  white  people,  who  come  into  the  country,  with  a  jealous 
eye." — "The  prospect  in  this  nation  is,  on  the  whole,  favorable;  but 
there  are  some  circumstances  which  at  times  bear  down  our  spirits,  and 
sink  our  hopes.  One  is  the  immoral  and  impious  lives  of  multitudes  of 
whites,  who  are  either  passing  through  the  Choctaw  country,  or  residing 
in  it.  Another  is  the  prevalence  of  intemperance  in  drinking.  This 
vice  has  of  late  increased  to  a  most  alarming  degree. — But  our  depen 
dence  is  not  on  our  own  strength.  Trusting  to  that,  we  must  despair  of 
success.  But  the  Lord  Jesus  has  all  power  in  heaven  and  in  earth;  and 
has  promised  to  be  with  his  disciples,  even  unto  the  end  of  the  world. 
Through  Him  we  can  do  all  things.  And  it  gives  us  some  satisfaction 
to  state,  that,  notwithstanding  the  moral  stupidity  and  licentiousness  of 
both  whites  and  Indians,  preaching  is  better  attended,  than  we  had  any 
reason  to  expect." 

May  the  same  grace,  which  has  been  so  signally  displayed  at  Brainerd, 
be  not  less  signally  displayed  at  Elliot;f  and  He,  who  has  made  of  one 
blood  all  nations,  mercifully  shew  himself  the  God,  not  of  the  Cherokees 
only,  but  also  of  the  Choctaws. 

FOREIGN  MISSION  SCHOOL. — This  interesting  Seminary  appears  to  be 
rising  in  favor  with  God  «and  man.  The  present  number  of  pupils  is 
twenty;  six  from  the  Sandwich  Islands;  two  from  the  Society  Islands; 
one  from  the  island  of  Timor,  a  Chinese  in  language;  one  from  Bengal; 
one  from  Malaya;  six  American  Aborigines,  of  different  tribes;  and  three 
sons  of  our  own  country.  Of  the  whole  number,  eight  are  church  mem 
bers,  of  whom  four  are  from  the  Sandwich  Islands;  and  several  others 
shew  marks  of  different  degrees  of  religious  seriousness.  The  Rev.  Mr. 
Daggett,  the  Principal,  in  an  official  communication  just  received,  says, 
"The  scholars  appear  to  maintain  a  great  (leal  of  harmony  in  their  inter 
course  with  each  other,  have  been  very  punctual  and  attentive  at 
all  seasons  of  devotion  and  religious  instruction,  and  their  general 
deportment  as  well  as  their  application  to  study,  has  been  very  satis 
factory." 

Amid  the  gracious  smiles  of  Heaven,  with  which  the  Seminary  has 
been  favored,  and  which  claims  the  most  grateful  acknowledgments;  it 
has  experienced,  in  the  course  of  the  year,  a  deeply  affecting  frown, 
which  calls  for  profound  submission.  On  the  17th  of  February,  Henry 
Obookiah,  the  eldest  and  most  extensively  known  of  the  members,  from 
the  Sandwich  Islands,  was  taken  from  the  midst  of  his  companions,  from 
the  affections  and  hopes  of  his  patrons  and  friends,  and  from  all  terrestrial 
scenes.  His  sickness  was  a  fever,  which  he  bore  with  exemplary  patience, 
with  cheerful  resignation,  and  with  an  elevated  and  animating  hope  of  a 
better  life.  He  died  as  the  Christian  would  wish  to  die.  His  divine 
master  knew  well,  whether  to  send  him  back  to  Owhyhee,  to  publish 

*The  name  given  to  the  place  of  the  Choctaw  Mission,  in  honor  of  him,  who  has  been  called 
"the  Apostle  of  the  Indians." 


1818.  REPORT.  201 

salvation  to  his  perishing  countrymen,  or  to  call  him  to  higher  scenes, 
in  another  world;  and  equally  well  does  He  know  how  to  make  his 
death  redound  to  the  good  of  his  surviving  school-fellows  and  friends, 
and  to  the  furtherance  of  the  great  cause,  to  which  he  was  so  ardently 
devoted. 

NEW  MISSIONARIES. — The  abundant  grace  of  the  Lord  Jesus  con 
tinues  to  be  displayed  in  bringing  forward  young  men  of  devoted  hearts, 
and  furnished  minds,  to  bear  his  name  to  the  distant  heathen.  Messrs. 
Pliny  Fisk,  Levi  Spaulding,  and  Miron  Winslow,  now  closing  their 
studies  at  Andover,  and  Messrs.  Cephas  Washburn,  and  Alfred  Finney, 
regular  licentiates  for  the  ministry,  have  offered  themselves  to  be  em 
ployed  under  the  patronage  and  direction  of  this  Board,  severally  with 
ample  testimonials.  And  not  a  smaller  number,  now  in  a  course  of 
preparation,  have  made  known  their  settled  purpose  of  offering  them 
selves  in  due  time. 

FUNDS. — The  donations  to  the  Board,  within  the  year  past,  have 
amounted  to  more  than  thirty-two  thousand  dollars,  and  the  other 
sources  of  income  to  about  three  thousand.  Though  the  receipts  have 
surpassed  those  of  the  preceding  year  about  Jive  thousand  dollars,  they 
have  fallen  short  of  the  expenditures,  which  amounted  to  more  than 
thirty-six  thousand. 

The  number  of  auxiliary  associations,  under  different  names,  which 
bring  their  collections  to  the  treasury  of  the  Board,  is  about  Jive  hun 
dred. 

From  year  to  year,  as  the  plans  and  operations  of  the  Board  are  exten 
ded,  and  its  establishments  and  laborers  are  multiplied,  the  expenditures 
are,  of  course,  and  of  necessity,  proportionably  increased;  and  as  the  work 
proceeds,  it  must  continue  to  be  so.  On  this  account,  however,  there  is 
no  cause  of  discouragement.  Hitherto  the  liberalities  of  the  Christian 
community  have  answered,  in  a  measure,  the  demands  for  them;  and 
there  is  good  ground  for  the  confidence,  that  they  will  yet  be  more  and 
more  abundant. 

It  is  as  certain  as  any  mathematical  demonstration,  that  the  Christian 
world  is  amply  able  to  supply  the  means  for  evangelizing  the  many 
millions  of  the  heathen.  The  duty  is  clear  and  imperious.  JESUS 
CHRIST  is  LORD  OF  ALL.  The  silver  and  the  gold  are  His; — the  world 
with  all  its  fulness  is  His:  and  his  high  command,  that  his  Gospel  should 
be  preached  to  every  creature,  puts  in  most  sacred  requisition  the  neces 
sary  means  for  the  purpose.  No  man  can  be  justified  in  withholding  his 
due  proportion;  no  one  is  impoverished,  or  will  be  impoverished,  by  com 
plying  with  the  requisition  in  its  utmost  extent;  every  one  who  obeys  it 
with  a  true  and  cheerful  heart,  will  receive  manifold  more  in  this  present 
world,  and  in  the  world  to  come,  life  everlasting. 

To  many,  indeed,  the  spirit  of  this  new  era,  as  was  that  of  our  Savior's 
ministry,  may  be  like  new  wine  to  old  bottles: — if  occasionally  infused 
into  them,  it  may  soon  be  gone.  But  in  others  it  will  remain;  and  the 
numbers  of  those,  in  whom  it  will  be  preserved,  and  be  like  a  springing 
well,  will  be  continually  and  rapidly  increasing.  Views  and  feelings 
and  habits,  suited  to  the  advancing  and  brightening  era,  will  grow,  be 
26 


202  FOREIGN    MISSION    SCHOOL.  1818. 

propagated,  arid  prevail.  Christians  will  learn  what  is  meant  by  not 
living  to  themselves;  for  what  other  and  higher  purposes,  than  merely  a 
temporal  support  for  themselves  and  families,  and  a  hoarded  provision 
for  those  who  are  to  come  after  them,  the  bounties  of  Providence  are 
bestowed  upon  them;  and  in  what  ways,  and  by  what  means,  not  limit 
ing  their  beneficence  to  the  narrow  circles  of  their  immediate  connex 
ions  or  communities,  they  may  do  good  unto  all  men.  "Their  merchan 
dise  and  their  hire  shall  be  holiness  to  the  Lord;  it  shall  not  be  treasured, 
nor  laid  tip."  They  will  not  give  grudgingly  nor  sparingly;  they  will 
not  wait  to  be  solicited,  but  will  come  forward  with  their  freewill  offer 
ings,  with  singleness  and  gladness  of  heart,  and  fill  the  treasury  of  the 
Lord  to  overflowing.  The  cause  is  worthy.  The  treasures  of  heaven 
have  been  freely  given  for  it;  and  the  treasures  of  the  earth  will  not 
always  be  withheld. — There  is  every  reason  for  animated  confidence,  and 
increased  exertion;  but  the  confidence  must  take  hold  on  the  all-suffi 
ciency  of  Zion's  Redeemer  and  King,  and  the  exertion  must  be  made  in 
his  strength,  and  with  humble  and  prayerful  waiting  on  his  will. 

In  behalf  of  the  Prudential  Committee, 
New-Haven,  Sept.  10,  1818.  S.  WORCESTER,  Cleric. 

FOREIGN    MISSION    SCHOOL. 

The  annual  report  of  the  agents  of  this  promising  establishment,  signed  by  the  chairman  of  the 
executive  committee,  JAMES  MORRIS,  Esq.  and  brought  down  to  September,  has  lately  been 
forwarded  to  the  Prudential  Committee.  We  lay  it  before  our  readers  in  the  form  of  an 
abridgement,  using  the  language  of  the  report,  wherever  it  can  conveniently  be  done. 

THE  instruction  of  the  school  continued  under  the  superintendence  of 
Mr.  Edwin  W.  Dwight,  till  last  May.  On  the  second  of  that  month,  at 
the  annual  meeting  of  the  agents,  the  Rev.  Herman  Dagget  was  induc 
ted  into  office  as  the  principal  of  the  school.  The  Committee  have  the 
pleasure  of  stating,  that  Mr.  Dwight,  while  discharging  the  duties  of 
principal,  had  the  progress  of  the  pupils  near  his  heart;  both  with  respect 
to  their  advancement  in  science,  and  their  proficiency  in  religious 
knowledge  and  piety.  It  appeared,  on  the  public  examination,  that  the 
scholars  had  made  satisfactory  improvement,  in  the  several  branches 
of  learning,  in  which  they  had  been  taught  by  him,  and  under  his 
direction. 

At  the  commencement  of  this  report,  the  committee  cannot  refrain 
from  noticing  the  death  of  Henry  Obookiah,  which  took  place  on  the  17th 
of  February.  Our  loss  in  his  removal  was,  we  trust,  his  unspeakable 
gain.  He  adorned  the  Christian  character,  and  his  influence  in  the 
school  was  salutary  and  commanding.  An  account  of  his  last  sickness 
and  death,  together  with  some  memoirs  of  his  life,  will  soon  appear  before 
the  public. 

Samuel  Ruggles,  and  James  Ely,  still  continue  members  of  the  school. 
They  are  both  young  men  of  piety  and  promise.  Their  deportment  and 
example  are  such  as  become  the  high  profession  they  have  made.  Their 
progress  in  study  is  honorable  to  themselves;  and  they  continue  to  hold 
themselves  devoted  to  the  missionary  cause.  The  former  has  been  em 
ployed,  during  a  part  of  the  time,  in  visiting  sundry  towns,  both  in  this 
and  the  neighboring  states,  to  solicit  donations  for  the  school,  in  which 
he  has  been  greatly  successful.  He  obtained  many  useful  articles,  both  of 


1818.  FOREIGN   MISSION    SCHOOL.  203 

clothing  and  bedding,  besides  books  and  money.  The  conduct  of  these 
two  young  men  has  been  such  as  to  increase  the  high  anticipations  of  their 
future  usefulness. 

[The  committee  next  mention  a  youth  of  our  own  country,  who,  as  it 
is  thought  inexpedient  that  he  should  continue  at  the  school,  need  not 
here  be  brought  before  the  public.] 

The  seventeen  youths,  who  were  born  pagans,  are  six  Sandwich  Island 
ers,  two  natives  of  India,  a  Chinese,  two  Society  Islanders,  and  six  of  the 
Aborigines  of  our  own  country.  Four  natives  of  the  Sandwich  Islands 
are  now  professors  of  religion.  Thomas  Hopoo  was  mentioned  in  the 
last  report  as  having  been  admitted  to  the  church.  He  continues  to  give 
good  evidence  of  piety,  and  burns  with  an  ardent  desire  to  carry  the  glad 
tidings  of  salvation  to  his  perishing  brethren  at  O  why  bee.  His  country 
men,  William  Tennooe,  John  Jrlonoorce,  and  George  Sandwich,  having, 
for  a  considerable  time,  given  satisfactory  evidence  of  faith  in  Christ, 
made  a  public  profession  of  that,  faith  the  first  Sabbath  in  September, 
were  baptised,  and  admitted  to  the  church  in  Cornwall.  Tennooe  is 
persevering  in  his  studies,  writes  a  good  hand,  and  displays  a  happy  talent 
in  composition.  Honooree  retains  his  native  language  in  a  high  degree; 
but  does  not  speak  English  with  ease  and  clearness.  He  has  a  turn 
for  the  mechanical  arts,  possesses  considerable  vigor  of  intellect,  is  dis 
creet  and  stable,  and  sets  an  example  worthy  of  imitation.  Sandwich 
is  industrious,  makes  good  improvement,  and  adorns  the  Christian  char 
acter. 

George  Tamoree  has  seasons  of  religious  impressions,  is  of  an  ardent 
temperament,  makes  good  proficiency  in  his  studies,  and  improves  in  his 
general  deportment.  The  remaining  Owhyhean,  William  Kummo-oo-lah,  is 
a  pleasant,  agreeable  youth,  learns  English  well,  and  is  now  hopefully  pious. 
John  WindalVs  progress  in  learning  has  been  slow.  His  powers  of 
mind  are  small;  and  it  has  been  deemed  inexpedient  to  continue  him 
longer  in  the  school.  The  committee  have  placed  him  under  the  care  of 
a  farmer,  who  will  give  him  religious  instruction,  and  allow  him  a  com 
pensation  for  his  labor. 

John  Johnson  was  dismissed  from  the  school  last  February,  for  im 
proper  conduct.  He  has  probably  gone  on  board  a  vessel  to  revisit  his 
native  country. 

Simon  Annance  has  made  reasonable  proficiency  in  his  studies;  has 
been  respectful  and  obedient;  but  has,  on  some  occasions,  been  rather 
averse  to  labor. 

Wong  Arce,  a  Chinese,  was  taken  into  the  school  for  a  season;  but 
was  dismissed  for  misconduct. 

Adin  Gibbs,  one  of  our  Aborigines,  was  born  in  Pennsylvania,  is  a 
descendant  of  the  Delaware  tribe,  speaks  the  English  language  fluently, 
and  impressively,  makes  laudable  progress  in  study,  is  a  professor  of  re 
ligion,  and  highly  adorns  the  character  of  a  Christian.  He  is  exemplary 
in  all  his  conduct;  and  his  character  procures  him  influence  among  his 
fellow  students.  He  was  religious  before  he  joined  the  school,  which 
was  in  April  last. 

George  Timor,  a  native  of  the  island  of  Timor  in  the  Indian  sea, 
came  to  this  country  from  Batavia.  He  lived  a  while  in  Philadelphia  as 
a  servant;  and  was  sent  to  the  school  by  a  worthy  clergyman  of  that 


204  FOREIGN    MISSION    SCHOOL.  1818. 

city.  He  is  mild  and  inoffensive;  but  not  having  sufficient  powers  of 
mind  to  make  advances  in  study,  he  has  been  placed  under  the  care  of  a 
religious  farmer,  that,  while  he  earns  his  living,  he  may  learn  the  simple 
truths  of  the  gospel. 

Stephen  Poo-po-liee,  a  native  of  one  of  the  Society  Islands,  has  lived  with 
Pomare,  and  was  in  the  battle  which  took  place  on  the  Sabbath  between 
the  Christian  party  and  the  idolaters,  and  which  ended  in  the  defeat  of 
the  latter.  Poo-po-hee  has  no  parents  living;  came  to  this  country  only 
to  see  it;  and  joined  the  school  in  April  last,  soon  after  he  landed  on 
our  shores.  Since  that  time  he  has  been  thoughtful  and  serious,  and  the 
committee  are  not  without  hope,  that  he  has  become  truly  pious,  and  is 
a  chosen  vessel  to  carry  the  gospel  to  some  islanders  of  the  Pacific. 

Charles  Papa-yoo  is  a  companion  of  Poo-po-hee,  came  to  New  York 
in  the  same  ship,  and  joined  the  school  at  the  same  time.  He  is  a  na 
tive  of  Otaheite.  His  talents  are  promising;  but  he,  like  many  other 
young  persons,  is  thoughtless  in  regard  to  religion.  Both  these  Society 
Islanders  are  about  twenty  years  of  age.  They  and  the  Sandwich  Island 
ers  are  well  formed,  fine  looking  young  men. 

Joseph  Bontang  Snow,  a  native  Malay,  was  stolen  from  Malacca,  when 
four  or  five  years  old,  carried  to  Batavia,  and  thence  to  Canton.  He 
was  held  as  a  slave,  and  offered  for  sale  to  a  Chinese  merchant;  but  he 
begged  himself  off.  His  master  then  disposed  of  him  to  Mr.  Samuel 
Snow,  of  Providence,  (R.  I.)  who  was  then  a  commercial  agent  of  the 
United  States  at  Canton,  and  who  brought  this  Malay  with  him,  on 
returning  to  this  country.  Botang  learnt  the  Chinese  language,  while 
resident  at  Canton,  and  retains  it  still.  He  speaks  English  intelligibly. 
At  Providence  he  became  serious,  and  hopefully  renewed  in  heart;  was 
baptised  on  a  profession  of  his  faith,  and  admitted  to  a  church  there.  He 
joined  the  school  last  spring;  and  his  conduct  has  been  unexceptionable. 
From  his  appearance  it  is  supposed  he  is  about  thirty  years  of  age. 

Three  Cherokee  youths,  and  a  Choctaw,  from  14  to  17  years  of  age, 
were  brought  to  the  school  by  Mr.  Cornelius  in  August.  The  names  of 
the  Cherokees  are,  Leonard  Hicks,  Elias  Boudinot,  and  Thomas  Basil; 
the  two  latter  being  named  after  gentlemen,  who  have  the  welfare  of  our 
Indians  much  at  heart.  The  first  is  a  son  of  Mr.  Hicks,  who  is  a  Chero 
kee  of  more  influence  than  any  other  in  the  tribe,  and  has  been,  for  five 
years,  a  professor  of  religion,  and  a  member  of  the  Moravian  church  at 
Spring-place.  The  name  of  the  Choctaw  is  M'Kee  Folsom.  His  father 
is  a  white  man;  his  mother  a  full-blooded  native. 

Arnold  Krygsman,  a  Malay  boy  of  12  years  old,  has  just  been  re 
ceived  into  the  school.  He  was  born  at  Padang,  on  the  south  side  of 
Sumatra;  his  mother  a  native  Sumatran,  his  father  a  Dutchman.  Both 
parents  being  dead,  he  was  sent  to  this  country  for  his  education,  by  an 
elder  brother,  and  committed  to  the  care  of  a  captain,  who  brought  him 
to  Newburyport  last  April. 

It  ought  to  be  acknowledged  with  gratitude,  that  the  smiles  of  Provi 
dence  have  remarkably  attended  the  school.  It  numbers  eight  profes 
sors  of  religion:  and  two  or  three  others,  who  are  hopefully  pious.  Its 
pupils  have  literally  come  from  the  east  and  the  west,  the  north  and  the 
south,  from  different  climates,  and  remote  continents  and  islands,  to  have 
the  darkness  of  Paganism  dispelled,  arid  the  light  of  the  gospel  commu- 


1818.  FOREIGN    MISSION    SCHOOL.  205 

nicated,  in  this  benevolent  institution.  Many  prayers  are  continually 
offered  for  the  youths  here  assembled,  that  their  souls  may  be  saved,  and 
they  may  carry  salvation  to  multitudes  of  their  brethren. 

Little  more  than  two  years  ago,  the  idea  of  this  school  was  suggested 
by  an  individual  to  two  of  his  friends.  They  united  in  prayer  for  divine 
direction.  The  subject  was  proposed  to  the  Board,  whose  committee  we 
are  now  addressing,  and  the  subsequent  history  of  the  design  need  not 
here  be  repeated. 

The  report  concludes  with  appropriate  reflections,  and  an  honorable 
testimony  to  the  Rev.  Mr.  Daggett,  as  peculiarly  qualified  to  preside  over 
such  a  school,  and  to  impress  religious  truth  upon  the  expanding  minds 
of  these  interesting  youths. 

VISIT    OP     THE      PRUDENTIAL      COMMITTEE      TO     THE      FOREIGN     MISSION 

SCHOOL. 

After  the  meeting  of  the  Board  in  September,  the  Prudential  Com 
mittee  made  an  official  visit  to  the  school,  for  the  purpose  of  viewing  the 
houses  and  land  which  had  been  purchased,  and  becoming  more  fully 
acquainted  with  the  minute  interests  of  the  establishment.  Though  it 
was  in  vacation,  the  greater  part  of  the  scholars  were  present.  After  an 
examination  into  the  state  of  the  school,  a  short  exhibition  was  made  of 
the  improvement  which  the  pupils  had  made  in  public  speaking.  M'Kee 
Folsom  delivered  a  short  declamation  in  Choctaw;  Elias  Boudinot  in 
Cherokee;  Poo-po-hee  in  Otaheitan;  Honooree  in  Owhyhean;  one  of  the 
American  youth  in  Chinese,  as  he  had  learned  it  from  Botang,  Gibbs, 
Hopoo,  and  others  in  English.  These  declamations,  excepting  the  Eng 
lish  ones,  were  composed  by  the  youths  themselves;  we  do  not  mean, 
that  they  were  all  written;  but  they  were  connected  speeches,  prepared 
for  exhibition.  The  declamation  of  Honooree  was  a  part  of  a  colloquy 
which  had  been  composed  for  the  public  examination  in  May.  He  de 
livered  it  with  surprising  force  and  animation.  As  he  came  to  the  part, 
which  affected  his  feelings  most,  the  excessive  agitation  of  his  counte 
nance  and  his  whole  frame,  and  the  unparalleled  rapidity  and  vehemence 
of  his  utterance,  were  so  much  beyond  our  standard  of  animated  delivery, 
as  to  be  rather  painful  to  the  audience.  The  English  pieces,  except  that 
of  Hopoo,  were  extracts  from  the  noblest  parts  of  Robert  Hall's,  and  of 
Dr.  Dwight's  sermons.  It  was  interesting  to  hear  these  grand  composi 
tions  uttered  by  tawny  youths,  but  lately  rescued  from  the  forests,  and 
the  islands  inhabited  only  by  heathens.  They  were  generally  delivered 
with  great  propriety.  The  piece  spoken  by  Hopoo  was  composed  by 
himself,  as  a  farewell  address  to  the  scholars,  in  contemplation  of  the 
separation,  which  would  take  place,  should  he  first  visit  the  land  of  his 
fathers,  to  bear  the  message  of  salvation.  The  performance  was  highly 
creditable  to  his  talents,  and  many  parts  of  it  were  suited  deeply  to  affect 
a  considerate  mind.  Towards  the  close  he  alluded  to  the  death  of  Oboo- 
kiah,  and  of  his  friend  and  benefactor,  Mr.  Mills,  in  the  tenderest  man 
ner.  The  whole  exhibition,  and  the  prospects  of  the  school  were  calcu 
lated  to  warm  the  benevolent  heart,  and  to  prompt  to  activity  and  dili 
gence  in  the  great  work  of  sending  the  gospel  to  the  heathen. 


206 


PECUNIARY    ACCOUNTS. 


1818. 


PECUNIARY   ACCOUNTS   OF   THE    BOARD. 

Tlie    American    Board   of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  in  account  current  with 
Jeremiah   Evarts,   their    Treasurer,   Dr. 

To  cash  paid  from  Sept.  1,  1817,  to  August  31,  1818,  in  conformity  to  orders  of  the  Board, 
and  of  the  Prudential  Committee,  from  No.  211  to  No.  295,  both  inclusive,  $36,310  16 

Losses  by  counterfeit   and  worthless  bills,  received  in   donations  during  the 
year,  -  -  -  36  09 

Balance  carried  to  the  credit  of  the  Board,  in  new  account;  Sept.  1,  1818,  52,923  08 

$89,269  33 
Contra  Cr. 

By  balance  brought  to  the  credit  of  the  Board,  in  new  account,  Sept.  1, 1817,      $53,841  61 

By  cash  received  in  donations,  as  published  particularly  in  the  Panoplist,   be 
tween  Sept.  1,  1817,  and  August  31,  1818,  -  $32,392  53 

Interest  of  money  and  income  of  slock,  '  -  2,761  55 

A  note  given  by  a  missionary  to  refund  what  had  been  advanced 
to  him,  his  ill  health  preventing  him  from  going  forth  to  the  heathen,  100  00 

Avails  of  the  sale  of  books,  published  by  the  Board,  principally  the 
"Conversion  of  the  World."  ...  173  64- — 35,427  72 

$89,269  33 


MINUTES 


TENTH  ANNUAL  MEETING 


THE  tenth  annual  meeting  of  the  American  Board  of  Commissioners 
for  Foreign  Missions,  was  held  in  the  council  chamber  of  the  state  house, 
in  Boston,  Sept.  15th,  16th,  and  17th,  1819.  The  following  members 
were  present;  viz. 

Rev.  JOSEPH  LYMAN,  D.  D. 

His  Honor  WILLIAM  PHILLIPS,  Esq. 

Rev.  JEDIDIAH  MORSE,  D.  D. 

Rev.  CALVIN  CHAPIN,  D.  D. 

Rev.  ZEPHANIAH  S.  MOORE,  D.  D. 

Rev.  JEREMIAH  DAY,  LL.  D 

JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq. 

Hon.  JOHN  TREADWELL,  LL.  D. 

Gen.  HENRY  SEWALL,         a  t^t* 

Hon.  CHARLES  MARSH, 

Hon.  WILLIAM  REED, 

Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  D.  D. 

Rev.  HENRY  DAVIS,  D.  D. 

The  session  was  opened  with  prayer  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Lyman,  and  on 
the  following  days  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Morse,  and  the  Rev.  Dr.  Chapin. 

The  annual  accounts  of  the  Treasurer  were  exhibited,  as  examined  and 
certified  by  the  Auditor,  and  accepted. 

The  Prudential  Committee  made  their  annual  Report,  which  took  up 
the  greater  part  of  the  first  day,  and  which  was  accepted. 

The  report  of  the  Executive  Committee  of  the  Foreign  Mission  School, 
was  read  and  accepted. 

The  Rev.  LEONARD  WOODS,  D.  D.,  Professor  in  the  Theological  Semi 
nary  at  Andover,  (Mass.)  the  Hon.  JOHN  COTTON  SMITH,  of  Sharon,  Con. 
DIVIE  BETHUNE,  Esq.  of  the  city  of  New  York,  and  ELIAS  BOUDINOT 
CALDWELL,  Esq.  of  Washington,  District  of  Columbia,  were  unanimously 
elected  members  of  the  Board. 


208  MINUTES  OP  THE  BOARD.  1819. 

After  the  annual  organization  of  the  Board,  the  officers  were   as 
follows: 

The  Hon.  JOHN  TREADWELL,  LL.  D.  President. 
Rev.  JOSEPH  LYMAN,  D.  D.  Vice  President. 
Rev.  JEDIDIAH  MORSE,  D.  D. 


Hon.  WILLIAM  REED, 


Prudential  Committee. 


Rev.  LEONARD  WOODS,  D.  D. 

Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  D.  D. 

JEREMIAH.  EVARTS,  Esq. 

Rev.  Dr.  WORCESTER,  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Rev.  CALVIN  CHAPIN,  Recording  Secretary. 

JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq.    Treasurer,  and 

ASHUR  ADAMS,  Esq.  Auditor. 

The  Rev.  Dr.  Lyman  preached  the  annual  Sermon,  at  the  Old  South 
Church,  on  the  afternoon  of  Thursday,  the  16th,  from  Isaiah  Iviii,  12. 
And  they  that  shall  be  of  thee  shall  build  the  old  waste  places:  thou  shalt 
raise  up  the  foundations  of  many  generations;  and  thou  shalt  be  cal 
led,  THE  REPAIRER  OP  THE  BREACH,  THE  RESTORER  OF  PATHS  TO 
DWELL  IN. 

His  Honor  Lieut.  Gov.  Phillips,  and  the  Rev.  Drs.  Worcester  and 
Morse,  were  requested  to  present  the  thanks  of  the  Board  to  the  preacher 
for  his  Sermon,  and  to  ask  a  copy  for  the  press. 

JOHN  TALLMADGE,  Esq.  was  unanimously  elected  a  member  of  the 
Agency  for  the  Foreign  Mission  School. 

In  the  course  of  the  session  the  following  resolutions  were  adopted. 

Resolved,  That  individuals,  clergymen  and  laymen,  residing  in  differ 
ent,  and  especially  in  distant,  parts  of  the  United  States,  and  in  other 
lands,  be  now,  and,  as  shall  be  deemed  advisable,  hereafter,  elected  by 
ballot,  to  be  connected  with  this  Board  as  Corresponding  Members;  who, 
though  it  be  no  part  of  their  official  duty  to  attend  its  meetings,  or  to  take 
part  in  its  votes  or  resolutions,  yet,  when  occasionally  present,  may 
assist  in  its  deliberations,  and,  by  communicating  information,  and  in 
various  other  ways,  enlighten  its  course,  facilitate  its  operations,  and  pro 
mote  its  objects. 

In  pursuance  of  the  foregoing  resolution,  the  following  persons  were 
unanimously  elected  by  ballot  to  be  corresponding  members;  viz. 

The  Rev.  FRANCIS  HERON,  Pittsburgh,  Pen.  the  Rev.  JAMES  CULBERT- 
SON,  Zanesville,  and  the  Rev.  ROBERT  G.  WILSON,  D.  D.  Chillicothe,  Ohio; 
the  Rev.  JAMES  BLYTHE,  D.  D.  Lexington,  and  the  Rev.  DANIEL  C.  BANKS, 
Louisville,  Kentucky;  the  Rev.  WILLIAM  HILL,  D.  D.  Winchester,  and 
the  Rev.  Dr.  BAXTER,  Lexington,  Va.;  the  Rev.  CHARLES  COFFIN,  D.  D. 
President  of  Greenville  College,  and  Dr.  JOSEPH  C.  STRONG,  Knoxville, 
Tennessee;  Col.  R.  J.  MEIGS,  agent  of  government  in  the  Cherokee  na 
tion;  Col.  JOHN  M'KEE,  agent  of  government  in  the  Choctaw  nation; 
SAMUEL  POSTLETHWAITE,  Esq.  Natchez,  Miss.;  the  Rev.  SYLVESTER 
LARNED,  New  Orleans,  Lou.;  Rev.  HENRY  KOLLOCK,  D.  D.  Savannah, 
the  Rev.  MOSES  WADDEL,  D.  D.  President  of  the  University  of  Georgia, 
JOHN  BOLTON,  Esq.  Savannah,  JOHN  WHITEHEAD,  Esq.  Waynesboro', 
and  the  Hon.  JOHN  ELLIOT,  Sunbury,  Georgia;  the  Rev.  BENJAMIN  M. 


1819.  MINUTES    OP   THE    BOARD.  209 

PALMER,  D.  D.  Charleston,  and  Dr.  EDWARD  D.  SMITH,*  Professor  in  the 
College,  South  Carolina;  and  Gen.  CALVIN  JONES,  Raleigh,  N.  C. 

Abroad  the  following  persons  were  elected;  viz.  WILLIAM  WILDER- 
FORCE,  Esq.  CHARLES  GRANT,  Esq.,  the  Rev.  JOSIAH  PRATT,  and  the 
Rev.  GEORGE  BURDER,  London;  the  Rev.  JOHN  CAMPBELL,  D.  D.,  the 
Hon.  KINCAID  MACKENZIE,  and  the  Rev.  RALPH  WARDLAW,  D.  D.,  Scot 
land;  Mr.  FREDERIC  LEO,  Paris;  the  Rev.  Mr.  JOWETT,  Malta;  the  Rev. 
Archdeacon  TVVISLETON,  Ceylon;  the  Rev.  WILLIAM  CAREY,  D.  D.,  and 
the  Rev.  THOMAS  T.  THOMASON,  Calcutta;  and  the  Rev.  ROBERT  MOR 
RISON,  D.  D.,  China. 

The  manner,  in  which  the  Corresponding  Members  are  to  be  informed 
of  their  election,  was  submitted  to  the  Prudential  Committee. 

Resolved,  That  this  Board,  is  deeply  impressed  with  the  holy  devoted- 
ness,  zeal,  fidelity,  labors  and  excellence  of  character,  of  their  late  beloved 
missionary,  the  Rev.  EDWARD  WARREN;  that  his  memory  is  precious; 
and  that  the  Prudential  Committee  be  authorized  and  directed  to  erect 
a  suitable  monumental  stone  over  his  grave,  at  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope. 

Resolved^  That  the  Board  will  ever  exercise  an  affectionate  and  provi 
dent  care  for  the  widows  and  children  of  such  missionaries,  as  shall  have 
deceased  in  its  service;  and  the  Prudential  Committee  are  authorized, 
and  it  will  be  their  duty,  to  make  such  provisions  in  these  cases,  as  will 
be  consistent  with  the  principles  of  the  missionary  cause,  and  adapted  to 
the  circumstances  of  the  respective  missionary  stations. 

Resolved,  That  the  Board  gratefully  acknowledge  the  liberal  and  in 
creasing  patronage  of  the  Christian  public  extensively  afforded  to  this  in 
stitution,  its  measures,  and  objects;  and  that  the  Prudential  Committee 
be  directed  to  express  the  thanks  of  the  Board  to  all  societies,  churches, 
congregations,  and  individuals,  from  whom  donations  and  contributions 
have  been  received. 

Various  interesting  subjects  were  referred  to  the  Prudential  Committee, 
and  to  the  future  deliberations  of  the  Board. 

[The  details  of  business,  which  annually  demand  the  attention  of  the 
Board,  in  relation  to  funds,  the  duties  of  officers,  &/c.  &>c.  and  the  appoint 
ment  and  report  of  various  committees,  would  not  be  particularly  interest 
ing  to  the  public.  The  important  objects  and  plans  of  the  Board  are 
brought  to*  view  in  the  Report  of  the  Prudential  Committee.] 

Resolutions  of  thanks  were  unanimously  adopted,  and  ordered  to  be 
presented  to  the  Committee  of  the  Old  South  Church,  for  the  use  of 
that  house  of  worship  for  the  public  religious  services  of  this  annual 
meeting; 

To  the  choir  of  singers,  for  their  attendance  and  aid  on  this  occasion; 

To  his  Honor,  the  Lieut.  Governor  of  Massachusetts,  for  his  kindness 
and  politeness  in  procuring  the  use  of  the  council-chamber  for  the  use  of 
the  Board  during  the  present  session;  and 

To  those  individuals  and  families  in  Boston,  whose  hospitality  has  been 
experienced  by  the  members. 

The  Prudential  Committee  were  directed  to  compile  and  publish  a 
Report,  comprising  the  various  annual  documents. 

*  This  gentleman  died  quite  lately,  on  a  visit  to  St,  Louis,  Missouri,  greaily  lamented  by  all 
who  knew  him. 

27 


210  REPORT.  1819. 

The  next  annual  meeting  was  appointed  to  be  held  at  Hartford,  Con. 
on  the  third  Wednesday  of  September,  1820,  at  10  o'clock,  A.  M.  The 
Rev.  Dr.  Nott  having  been  appointed  to  preach  on  that  occasion,  the 
Rev.  Dr.  Proudfit  w'as  appointed  to  preach  in  case  of  his  failure. 

The  meeting  was  concluded  with  prayer  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Worcester. 

REPORT. 

BRETHREN, — The  year  is  quickly  gone;  and  in  the  kind  providence  of 
HIM,  who  has  crowned  it  with  his  mercies,  we  are  returned  to  this  Board 
of  sweet  and  high  counsel,  to  review  the  past,  and  to  consult  for  the 
future. — But  not  all  are  here.  The  revered  friend  of  man  and  of  God; — 
who  had  borne  a  conspicuous  part  in  the  cares  and  toils  of  his  country's 
deliverance  and  elevation, — and,  with  still  more  ardent  devotion  engaged 
in  the  great  design  of  raising  up  the  world  to  virtue  and  to  glory, — the 
Hon.  JEDTDIAH  HUNTINGTON — is  not  here. — The  venerated  champion  of 
the  cross, — whose  highest  joys  were  its  holy  triumphs, — whose  concep 
tions  were  among  the  first  in  the  teeming  deliberations,  from  which  this 
Board,  with  all  its  plans  and  enterprises,  sprung, — who,  in  each  succeed 
ing  year,  has  been  the  second  of  its  officers,  and  a  prime  counsellor  of 
its  measures, — and  whose  fidelity  to  his  many  and  weighty  trusts  was  an 
example  to  his  compeers  and  a  light  to  the  world, — the  Rev.  Dr.  SPRING 
— is  not  here. — Their  course  is  finished; — their  work  is  done; — their  trials 
are  ended;  and  our  Master  and  Lord,  supremely  wise  and  good,  has 
called  them  to  rest  from  their  labors,  in  the  mansions  which  he  had  pre 
pared  for  them.  The  places  that  have  known  them  will  know  them  no 
more.  We  have  mingled  our  tears  with  many  at  their  tombs;  we  have 
embalmed  the  memory  of  the  one  and  of  the  other  in  our  hearts;  and 
we  now  record  their  names  in  the  assured  persuasion,  that  they  have  long 
since  been  enrolled  for  everlasting  remembrance  on  high. 

But  the  time  demands,  that  they  who  weep  be  as  though  they  wept 
not.  Our  work  is  not  done.  We  have  still  to  be  followers  of  them, 
who  through  faith  and  patience  inherit  the  promises.  The  removal  of 
laborers,  one  after  another,  is  no  intimation  that  the  design  is  to  be  re 
linquished-,  or  the  work  suspended.  He,  whose  design  it  is,  still  lives, 
and  still  reigns  on  the  holy  hill  of  Zion,  for  its  accomplishment;  and  is 
continually  giving  increased  emphasis  to  the  mandate,  Go  ye,  therefore, 
and  teach  all  nations; — and  to  the  assurance,  Lo,  I  am  with  you  alway. 

The  missions,  concerning  which  report  is  now  to  be  made,  are  seven: 
BOMBAY,  CEYLON,  PALESTINE,  CHEROKEE,  CHOCTAW,  ARKANSAS,  and 
SANDWICH:  the  first,  only  six  years  ago,  dubiously  struggling  for  a  place, 
and  even  for  existence;  the  last,  just  on  the  eve  of  embarkation;  and  the 
whole  extending  from  east  to  west,  more  than  two  thirds  around  this 
globe,  which,  as  the  dearly  purchased  domain  of  the  Son  of  God,  Chris 
tian  benevolence  desires  completely  to  encircle,  and  to  fill  with  the  light 
of  his  salvation. 

BOMBAY. — This  mission,  the  first  child  of  the  Board,  can  never  be 
mentioned  by  your  Committee,  without  emotions,  which  the  heart  wishes 
always  to  feel,  and  recollections,  on  which  it  dwells  with  ever  refreshing 
gratitude  and  delight.  It  has  lost  nothing  of  its  title  to  be  regarded  with 
the  liveliest -affection,  confidence,  and  hope. 


1819.  REPORT.  211 

The  mission  now  comprises  three  stations.  The  first,  which  is  also 
the  principal  seat  of  the  mission,  is  in  the  great  native  town  of  Bombay; 
and  is  still  held  by  Messrs.  Hall,  Newell,  and  Bardwell.  At  Mahim, 
about  six  miles  distant,  on  the  northern  part  of  the  same  island,  is  the 
station  of  Mr.  Graves, — in  the  midst  of  about  twenty  thousand  heathen 
people,  dwelling  compactly  around  him,  and  near  to  a  still  greater  num 
ber  on  the  neighboring  island  of  Salsette.  Mr.  Nichols  has  his  station 
at  Tanna,  the  chief  town  of  Salsette,  distant  from  the  first  station  about 
twenty-five  miles,  and  separated  only  by  a  very  narrow  strait  from  a 
dense  and  wide  spread  population  on  the  continent.  These  stations  are 
regarded  as  eminently  eligible,  combining  many  and  great  facilities,  and 
advantages  for  extensive  operations. 

About  a  year  ago,  Mr.  Nichols  was  visited  with  a  severe  bilious  illness, 
by  which  he  was  brought  near  to  death.  "My  physician,  my  friends, 
and  myself,"  he  says,  "for  several  days  anticipated  the  rapid  approach  of 
that  hour,  when  my  soul  would  be  summoned  hence.  But  the  Almighty 
Physician  appeared  to  save.  The  chastisements  of  his  rod  were  mingled 
with  the  sweetest  tokens  of  his  love. — He  made  all  my  bed  in  sickness. 
— I  cannot  think  of  the  goodness  of  God,  and  the  unremitting  attention 
of  Dr.  Taylor,  and  my  beloved  friends  about  me,  but  tears  of  gratitude 
fill  rny  eyes."  His  speedy  recovery  is  mentioned  by  the  other  brethren, 
and  will  be  regarded  by  this  Board,  as  a  particular  mercy,  to  be  recorded 
with  devout  thankfulness.  It  is,  however,  only  a  touching  instance  amid 
an  ample  display  of  Divine  goodness.  In  the  general  health  of  its  mem 
bers, — in  its  internal  harmony,  in  the  favor  it  has  obtained  with  the  rulers, 
and  with  the  people,  European  and  native, —  in  the  free  course  afforded 
to  its  operations, — and  above  all,  in  its  lively  steadfastness  in  the  work 
of  faith,  and  labor  of  love,  and  patience  of  hope, — the  Lord  has  marked 
this  mission  with  distinguished  kindness. 

Since  the  dates  reported  the  last  year,  a  wide  expansion  has  been  given 
to  the  sphere  of  its  operations.  At  first,  the  labors  of  the  brethren  were 
limited  to  the  town  of  Bombay.  After  the  arrival  of  Messrs.  Nichols 
and  Graves,  by  occupying  the  stations  of  Mahim  and  Tanna,  they  brought 
the  whole  island  of  Bombay  and  Salsette  also,  within  their  range.  Nor 
is  this  all.  By  the  late  war  in  India,  the  Mahratta  states  and  territories, 
on  the  side  of  the  peninsula  or  continent  adjacent  to  Bombay,  and  to  a 
great  extent,  were  subjected  to  the  British  dominion.  This  event,  as  it 
rendered  those  countries  more  easily  and  safely  accessible,  gave  a  new 
spring  to  hope  and  to  enterprise. 

In  October  last,  Mr.  Newell  made  an  excursion  to  Caranja,  an  island 
near  Bombay,  "containing  about  ten  thousand  inhabitants,  mostly  Hin 
doos."  There  "he  preached  to  numbers  of  the  people,  and  distributed 
a  hundred  books." 

In  the  same  month,  Mr.  Hall  passed  over  to  the  continent,  and  visited 
Choule,  a  place  upon  the  coast,  about  thirty  miles  south  of  Bombay. 
"Here,  in  a  small  compass,"  he  says,  "are  six  or  eight  towns,  belonging 
to  the  English;  and  in  these  towns  there  may  be  thirty  thousand  inhab 
itants;  who,  with  the  exception  of  about  two  hundred  Roman  Catholics, 
fifty  families  of  Jews,  and  a  few  Mussulmans,  are  all  Hindoos."  He  vis 
ited  most  of  the  towns  and  villages  in  the  district,  "preached  to,  and 
conversed  with,  large  numbers  of  the  people,  and  distributed  about  two 


212  REPORT.  1819. 

hundred  books.  Not  only  were  the  books  kindly  received;  but,  before 
he  left  the  district,  the  people  thronged  around  him,  at  different  places, 
eagerly  desirous  of  obtaining  them.  This  afforded  him  very  favorable 
opportunities  for  preaching  to  them,  which  he  as  gladly  embraced.  When 
his  stock  of  books  was  gone,  pressed  by  their  importunities,  he  promised 
to  send  them  more;  and  in  fulfilment  of  the  promise,  after  his  return  to 
Bombay,  he  sent  them,  by  the  hand  of  a  schoolmaster,  about  four  hun 
dred. 

In  the  forepart  of  November,  Mr.  Newell  made  a  visit  to  Bankote, 
about  sixty  miles  south  of  Bombay,  of  which  he  gives  the  following 
account. 

"I  staid  at  Bankote  eleven  days;  and  from  thence  visited  the  principal 
towns  in  that  vicinity,  and  held  conferences  with  the  people  in  all  the 
places  to  which  1  went.  I  read,  also,  in  all  those  places,  some  of  our 
tracts,  which  contain  a  general  view  of  the  gospel,  in  a  small  compass; 
and  distributed  among  the  people  copies  of  the  Gospel  of  Matthew,  and 
of  the  Acts,  and  of  all  the  different  tracts  which  we  have  published.  I 
found  the  people  attentive  and  inquisitive.  When  I  visited  the  same  peo 
ple  a  second  time,  I  generally  found  they  had  a  number  of  inquiries  to 
make  about  what  they  had  heard  before. — The  town  of  Bankote,  with 
its  dependent  villages,  contains  about  1700  inhabitants.  I  distributed 
in  this  place,  of  the  Gospel  of  Matthew  50  copies,  of  the  Acts  30,  and 
200  Tracts.  I  had  the  satisfaction  of  finding,  that  I  could  communicate 
with  the  people  on  the  continent  as  readily,  as  with  the  people  on  this 
island,  and  that  the  people  and  the  language  are  precisely  the  same  there 
as  here." 

In  December,  Mr.  Hall  made  another  excursion;  visited  Cullian  and 
Basseen,  two  large  towns  on  the  continent,  the  former  about  forty  miles 
north  east,  and  the  latter  about  thirty  miles  north  of  Bombay;  imparted  in 
struction  to  many  people;  and  distributed  more  than  five  hundred  books. 

"Our  experience  of  this  mode  of  laboring,"  say  the  brethren,  "has 
led  us  to  estimate  more  highly  the  importance  of  itinerating  extensively, 
for  the  double  purpose  of  preaching  and  distributing  the  Scriptures  and 
tracts.  And  we  indulge  the  pleasing  hope,  that  He,  who  has  helped  us 
thus  far,  will  enable  us  to  go  on,  extending  our  instructions  and  distri 
butions  farther  and  farther;  and  we  would  rest  assured,  that  our  labor 
will  not  be  in  vain  in  the  Lord." 

It  is  their  constant,  daily  practice  to  go  about  among  the  heathen, 
preaching  more  or  less  publicly,  as  opportunities  offer;  and  distributing 
books  to  such  as  seem  willing  and  able  to  read  them.  "It  will,  no  doubt," 
they  say,  "be  grateful  to  the  feelings  of  the  Board  to  reflect,  that  five  of 
their  missionaries,  in  the  same  region,  and  the  same  language,  are  now 
daily  and  actively  engaged  in  the  use  of  means,  both  direct  and  indirect, 
for  the  conversion  of  the  heathen." 

Among  the  indirect  means  here  referred  to,  are  the  translating  and 
printing  of  the  Scriptures  in  successive  portions,  and  the  preparing  and 
printing  al«o  of  other  books  and  tracts. 

Mention  was  made  in  the  Report  of  the  last  year,  of  their  having  print 
ed  in  large  editions,  the  Gospel  of  Matthew,  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles, 
and  two  tracts,  consisting  chiefly  of  select  portions  of  Scripture.  They 
have  since  printed  two  editions,  a  thousand  copies  each,  of  a  tract  com- 


1819-  REPORT.  213 

posed  by  them,  and  entitled,  The  Way  to  Heaven;  the  first  Number  in  a 
series  of  Scripture  History;  the  Gospel  of  Matthew,  for  the  Bombay 
Bible  Society;  Christ's  sermon  on  the  mount,  partly  for  the  Bible  Society, 
and  partly  for  their  own  distribution;  a  Reading  Book  for  schools;  and 
a  book  entitled,  An  easy  and  expeditious  Method  of  acquiring  a  Knowl 
edge  of  the  English  language;  desigmd  for  the  benefit  of  those  Natives, 
who  wish  to  study  the  English  Language  and  the  Sciences.  And  at  the 
last  dates,  they  were  expecting  soon  to  print  the  book  of  Genesis,  and 
several  other  tracts;  and  an  edition  of  the  Way  to  Heaven,  in  the  Guze- 
rattee  language. 

"The  demand  for  books,"  they  say,  "has  been  greatly  increased.  A 
large  number  have  been  distributed;  and  some  of  them  have  been  sent  to 
a  considerable  distance  on  the  continent.  A  few  copies  of  the  Reading 
Book  for  Schools,  were  sent,  some  months  since,  to  a  large  town  about 
twenty  miles  to  the  east  of  Bankote;  and  were  so  highly  approved,  that 
they  were  immediately  introduced  into  the  principal  schools  there,  and  a 
farther  supply  was  requested  through  a  European  gentleman  residing 
there.  The  supply  desired  has  since  been  forwarded.  A  number  of 
Gospels  and  copies  of  the  Acts,  and  tracts,  have  been  distributed  in  the 
same  place,  through  the  same  gentleman.  He  also  remarked,  concern 
ing  a  copy  of  Matthew  and  the  Acts,  bound  together,  that  an  officiating 
Brahmin^of  the  principal  temple  in  that  place,  asked  for  it;  and  it  was 
given  on  condition,  that  it  should  be  publicly  deposited  in  the  temple  for 
the  use  of  all  that  might  wish  to  read  it.  On  this  condition,  it  was  re 
ceived;  and  the  gentleman  had  ascertained  that  it  was  accordingly  de 
posited  and  actually  read." 

The  two  thousand  copies  of  The  Way  to  Heaven,  which  they  printed 
in  two  editions,  were  quickly  distributed;  and  another  edition  was  wanted. 

These  ^statements  shew,  in  a  strong  light,  the  diligence  of  the  mis 
sionaries,  and  the  utility  of  their  printing  establishment.  Hitherto  indeed, 
they  have  received  little  remuneration  for  the  expenses  and  labors  of  the 
press.  They  have  done  some  printing  however,  for  the  Bombay  Bible 
Society;  which  directly  served  the  general  cause,  and  at  the  same  time 
brought  something  to  the  funds  of  the  mission;  and  they  entertain  the 
hope,  that  from  their  book,  "designed  for  the  Benefit  of  those  Natives 
who  wish  to  study  the  English  Language  and  the  Sciences,"  the  mis 
sion  will  derive  no  inconsiderable  emolument.  Copies  of  the  book  have 
been  sent  home.  It  is  an  octavo  of  168  pages;  and,  in  the  judgment  of 
your  Committee,  is  highly  creditable  to  the  mission.  But  it  is  chiefly  by 
supplying  the  missionaries  with  copies  of  the  Scriptures  and  other  books 
and  tracts  for  their  schools,  and  for  liberal  and  extensive  distribution,  that 
their  press  will  be  an  engine  of  incalculable  utility. 

The  schools  of  this  mission,  as  reported  at  our  last  anniversary,  were 
eleven.  The  number  has  since  increased  to  twenty-five.  The  total 
number  of  pupils  in  these  schools  is  not  stated  in  any  of  the  communica 
tions  received,  but  we  may  fairly  estimate  those  who  attend  constantly  at 
nearly  a  hundred  Jewish,  and  more  than  twelve  hundred  heathen  chil 
dren;  besides  a  nearly  equal  number,  in  the  course  of  a  year,  whose  at 
tendance  is  inconstant.  The  system  is  extending,  the  field  is  widening, 
the  number  of  schools  and  of  pupils  is  increasing;  and  the  hearts  of  the 
missionaries  are  expanding  with  benevolent  desire  and  with  animating 
hope. 


214  REPORT.  1819. 

"For  various  reasons"  they  say,  "we  thought  it  desirable  to  establish 
schools  on  the  continent.  Schools  being  established  in  the  large  towns 
there,  the  superintendence  of  them  must  open  to  us  an  extensive  inter 
course  with  the  people,  and  afford  new  and  important  facilities  for  diffus 
ing  Christian  knowledge  in  other  ways,  in  addition  to  what  would  be 
taught  in  the  schools. 

"With  respect  to  Choule  the  circumstances  were  very  favorable.  At 
the  time  brother  Hall  visited  this  place,  it  was  said  there  was  not  a  sin 
gle  school  in  operation.  The  people,  understanding  that  we  had  it  in 
contemplation  to  establish  charity  schools,  favored  the  object,  and  several 
persons  requested  to  be  employed  as  teachers.  The  Jew,  who  has  been 
employed  as  teacher  of  the  Jewish  school  in  Bombay,  was  from  Choule, 
and  was  willing  to  return  and  teach  a  school  there.  We  found  him  to 
be  a  well  qualified  and  faithful  schoolmaster.  Accordingly,  about  the 
middle  of  the  month,  he  was  sent  to  Choule,  with  directions  to  open  one 
school  in  the  large  town  of  Rawadunda,  and  to  employ  one  man  to  teach 
another  school  in  a  neighboring  village.  The  first  school  was  expected 
to  embrace  the  Jewish  children,  and  more  or  less  children  of  other  de 
scriptions.  Forty  large  boys  have  already  joined  this  school,  30  of  whom 
are  Jews,  and  the  number  is  increasing.  The  other  school  has  25  boys, 
and  the  number  is  also  increasing.  In  the  compass  of  five  or  six  miles 
there  are  other  populous  villages,  where  schools  are  equally  needed,  and 
where,  as  we  are  informed,  there  are  boys  in  readiness  for  four  more 
schools. 

"We  some  time  since  concluded  to  establish  at  least  one  school  on  the 
island  of  Caranja,  which  was  visited  some  time  since  by  brother  Newell, 
but  it  has  not  yet  been  commenced.  We  hope  that  before  long,  we  shall 
see  flourishing  schools  both  here  and  at  Choule.  But  we  should  much 
more  rejoice  to  see  a  missionary  at  each  of  those  stations,  to  give  greater 
effect  to  the  schools,  and  teach  the  risen  as  well  as  the  rising  generation 
the  words  of  eternal  life.  Each  would  have  an  ample  field,  equal  to  his 
utmost  exertions;  and  we  cannot  forbear  to  raise  our  supplicating  voice 
in  behalf  of  these  still  neglected,  perishing  thousands,  and  to  entreat  that 
«re  long  they  may  be  furnished  with  spiritual  teachers,  to  guide  them  in 
the  right  ways  of  the  Lord. 

"The  large  towns  of  Cullian  and  Basseen,  visited  by  brother  Hall, 
jpresent  additional  openings  for  the  establishment  of  schools;  and  so  do 
other  towns  less  distant  from  Bombay.  We  cannot  speak  with  precision 
as  to  the  extent  to  which  schools  might  be  carried,  but  we  are  sure  that 
they  might  be  very  greatly  extended;  and  we  feel  very  desirous  that  this 
should  be  done.  Yes,  we  more  than  ever  desire  it,  for  our  further  expe 
rience  and  observation  have  only  served  the  more  deeply  to  convince  us 
of  the  eminent  importance  of  such  schools,  and  of  their  powerful  agency 
in  the  diffusion  of  Christian  knowledge." 

In  this  connection,  the  brethren  make  a  statement  respecting  the  ex 
pense  of  their  schooling  system,  from  which  it  appears,  that,  on  an  aver 
age,  the  teaching  of  a  hundred  boys  costs  the  mission  about  eleven  dol 
lars  a  month,  and  is  not  likely  to  cost  it  more.  Taking  twelve  hundred, 
as  the  total  number  of  pupils  in  their  twenty-five  schools,  the  total  expense 
for  a  year  amounts  to  about  fifteen  hundred  and  eighty  dollars. 

The  brethren  proceed  in  the  following  very  interesting  and  impressive 
recital  and  appeal. 


1819.  REPORT.  215 

"As  a  thing  of  course,  the  children  are  taught  reading,  writing,  and 
arithmetic  in  their  own  language.  Special  pains  are  taken  to  bring  them 
forward  in  reading,  an  exercise  greatly  undervalued  and  very  little  en 
couraged  in  their  own  schools.  Besides,  as  the  schools  are  chiefly  de 
signed  for  the  poor,  who  do  not  think  themselves  able  to  provide  instruc 
tion  for  their  children,  by  means  of  them  large  numbers  are  instructed  in 
the  art  of  reading,  &.c.  who  otherwise  would  never  be  able  to  read,  and 
consequently  in  no  capacity  to  be  benefited  by  the  perusal  of  the  Scrip 
tures  if  given  to  them. 

"To  increase  the  proportion  of  people  in  a  community  who  are  fur 
nished  with  the  art  of  reading,  writing,  and  arithmetic,  is  to  raise  that 
community  in  the  scale  of  intellectual  being:  and  as  charity  schools  for 
the  education  of  the  poor  and  destitute  obviously  effect  this,  they  certainly 
claim  the  approbation  and  patronage  of  every  friend  of  humanity.  But 
this  is  by  no  means  the  chief  motive.  It  will  be  remembered,  that  these 
schools  are  filled  with  heathen  children,  who,  in  a  few  years,  are,  in  no 
small  degree,  to  give  a  character  to  the  community,  to  which  they  belong. 
In  these  schools,  these  heathen  youth,  in  addition  to  the  ordinary  branches 
of  learning,  are  taught  the  fundamental  principles  of  Christianity.  In 
stead  of  heathen  fables,  the  very  first  thing  put  into  their  hands  to  read 
is  the  pure  word  of  God,  which  is  able  to  make  them  wise  unto  salvation 
through  faith  in  Jesus  Christ.  Such  portions  are  selected  for  them,  as 
are  best  calculated  to  store  their  minds  with  divine  knowledge.  The 
most  important  moral  precepts  are  enforced  upon  their  hearts.  They 
commit  to  memory  the  dec^ogue  and  form  of  prayer. 

"Thus  are  these  heathen  children  daily  employed.  Is  not  this  simple 
statement  enough?  Will — can — the  disciples  of  Jesus — can  the  friends 
of  mankind,  withhold  their  silver  and  gold,  so  long  as  there  is  a  call  for 
another  such  school  among  the  heathen?  If  more  argument  were  neces 
sary,  much  more  might  be  said.  But  we  must  forbear  to  amplify.  We 
would  only  add,  that  this  method  of  schooling  has  far  exceeded  our  most 
sanguine  expectations.  We  find  no  obstacle  to  the  multiplying  of  our 
schools;  and  none  in  our  way  of  teaching  in  them  whatever  we  please. 
If  we  only  had  time,  we  might  visit  and  catechise  each  school  every  day; 
and  in  some  respects,  we  are  under  as  great  advantages,  for  imparting  a 
religious  education  to  these  heathen  children,  as  though  they  were 
brought  up  in  our  families.  We  are  therefore  earnest  in  pleading  for 
these  schools,  that  they  may  not  only  continue  to  be  supported,  but  that 
they  may  be  greatly  extended. 

"At  the  same  time,  would  we  desire  to  acknowledge,  with  most  un 
feigned  gratitude,  that  liberal  patronage,  which  the  Christian  public  in 
our  native  land  have  hitherto  extended  to  the  various  objects  of  our  mis 
sion,  and  which  we  hope  never  to  forfeit." 

These  views  of  the  beloved  missionaries  are  animating,  and  these  sen 
timents  impulsive.  They  will  be  deeply  felt,  not  only  by  this  Board,  but 
by  the  Christian  community  extensively,  and  the  liberal  patronage  so 
earnestly  solicited,  will  not  be  withheld. 

It  would  have  been  gratifying  to  your  Committee,  had  they  been  able 
to  report  a  proportionate  success  in  the  design  of  educating  children  in 
the  missionary  families.  But  in  respect  to  this  part  of  the  general  plan, 
the  missionaries  at  Bombay  have  not  yet  been  so  happy  as  to  have  their 


216  REPORT.  1819. 

hopes  realized;  and  they  express  concern,  lest  the  expectations  of  their 
patrons  and  friends  at  home  should  not  soon  be  fulfilled.  At  the  latest 
dates,  they  had  not  more  than  three  or  four  native  children  under  their 
special  domestic  care;  nor  were  they  certain,  that  even  these  would  be 
found  eligible  as  beneficiaries  of  the  sacred  and  particularly  interesting 
charities,  to  be  applied  to  the  education  of  heathen  children  as  Chris 
tians,  and  with  specified  and  select  names.  The  most  assured  confi 
dence,  however,  may  be  cherished,  that  what  can  be  done  will  be  done, 
for  carrying  the  design  into  effect;  and  preventing  a  disappointment 
which,  both  the  missionaries  and  your  Committee  would  most  deeply 
regret. 

In  the  mean  time,  monies,  specially  given  for  this  object,  will  be  held 
in  sacred  trust;  and  will  not,  without  the  direction  or  consent  of  the 
donors,  be  otherwise  applied.  It  will  be  at  the  option,  however,  of  socie 
ties  and  individuals  by  whom  these  donations  have  been  made,  to  direct 
their  application,  as  to  them  shall  seem  most  desirable.  Some  monies, 
originally  intended  for  this  specific  application  at  Bombay,  have  already, 
by  direction  of  the  donors,  been  transferred,  for  the  same  purpose  to  Cey 
lon,  where  children  can  be  obtained  with  less  difficulty,  and  supported  at 
less  expense.  And  your  Committee  beg  to  commend  it  to  generous 
consideration,  that  only  twice  the  sum  requisite  for  educating  a  heathen 
child  in  a  missionary  family  at  Bombay,  would  be  sufficient  for  the  sup 
port  of  a  school  there  of  forty  or  fifty  heathen  children;  and  to  the  estab 
lishment  of  schools  to  any  extent,  for  which  funds  shall  be  supplied,  no 
obstacle  is  likely  to  be  found.  4 

In  two  years  the  schools  of  this  mission  have  increased  in  number  from 
four  to  twenty-five;  and  the  pupils  in  an  equal  ratio.  Let  the  present 
number  in  these  schools  be  taken  at  a  thousand; — let  the  increase  hence 
forward  be  only  at  the  rate  of  doubling  in  five  years; — and  let  five  years 
be  allowed,  as  the  average  term  of  the  continuance  of  the  same  pupils  at 
the  schools; — and,  in  twenty-five  years  from  this  time,  thirty-one  thou 
sand  heathen  children  will  have  been  instructed,  and  issued  from  the 
schools; — and  at  the  close  of  this  period  the  number  of  schools  will  be 
640,  and  the  number  of  pupils  in  them  32,000. 

Considering  the  wide  extent  of  the  field  now  opened,  and  the  continu 
ally  increasing  facilities  and  advantages  afforded,  these  estimates  will  be 
regarded  as  quite  moderate.  But  even  these  supply  a  basis  for  expanded 
hope,  and  open  prospects  on  which  the  benevolent  mind  will  delight  to 
dwell. 

Slender  as  the  probability  may  be,  that  adult  Hindoos,  and  especially 
such  as  are  advanced  in  years,  will  be  turned  from  their  vanities  unto  the 
living  God;  it  surely  is  in  no  degree  improbable,  that  Hindoo  children, 
brought  early  under  a  course  of  Christian  instruction,  taught  and  accus 
tomed  daily  to  read  the  Holy  Scriptures,  and  impressed  with  the  precepts 
and  doctrines  and  counsels  and  exhortations  of  the  gospel — will  learn 
to  see,  to  despise,  and  to  abhor  the  hideous  absurdity,  deformity,  sottish- 
ness,  and  impurity  of  the  Hindoo  system;  will  become  advocates  for  the 
religion  of  Christ;  and,  by  the  grace  of  God  accompanying  the  means  of 
his  own  appointment,  many  of  them  be  made  devoted  and  exemplary  dis 
ciples. — Thirty  thousand  children,  not  only  themselves  instructed,  but 
carrying  the  Bible  into  as  many,  or  nearly  as  many,  heathen  families,  and 


1819.  REPORT.  217 

reading  it  to  their  parents,  and  brothers  and  sisters,  and  connections,  and 
acquaintances,  will  do  much,  even  in  their  early  years,  for  diffusing  the 
light  of  divine  truth.  When  attained  to  riper  age,  their  activity,  their 
influence,  and  their  impressions  upon  the  mass  of  population,  with  which 
they  are  intermixed,  will  be  proportionably  increased.  Not  a  few  of 
them  may  become  not  only  heads  of  families,  but. teachers  of  schools, — 
and  teachers  too,  possessed  of  much  better  qualifications  than  can  now 
be  obtained.  And  some  of  them  may  be  catechists,  and  preachers, — 
regularly  engaged,  and  efficient  helpers  in  the  missionary  work. 

Meanwhile,  the  other  parts  of  the  system  will  be  advancing.  The 
missionaries,  in  their  circuits,  will  preach  the  gospel  directly  to  many 
thousands  of  heathen  people,  and  distribute  the  Scriptures  and  other 
books  and  tracts,  and  cause  them  to  be  distributed,  throughout  cities  and 
districts  and  provinces,  containing  millions. 

But  the  system  is  not  to  cease  its  operations  in  twenty-five  years.  It 
will  then  have  gathered  strength,  augmented  its  resources,  and  multiplied 
its  facilities  and  advantages,  for  extended  and  more  effective  opera 
tions. 

CEYLON. — At  the  last  anniversary,  our  hearts  were  afflicted  with 
mournful  anticipations,  respecting  two  of  the  brethren  of  this  mission. 
Those  anticipations  were  but  too  sure. 

The  Report,  then  made,  left  Messrs.  Warren  and  Richards,  the  last  of 
February,  1818,  at  Colombo,  where  they  had  been  for  several  weeks,  re 
tired  from  their  labors,  and  in  quest  of  health,  dubious  as  to  the  issue. 
There  every  attention,  with  generous  hospitality  and  Christian  kindness 
could  prompt,  was  bestowed  upon  them:  and  various  expedients  were 
proposed  for  their  benefit;  until  at  length,  in  the  latter  part  of  April,  they 
embarked  for  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope.  Of  this  measure,  Messrs.  Meigs 
and  Poor,  in  a  joint  letter,  written  about  a  month  afterwards,  give  the 
following  particular  and  satisfactory  account. 

"As  sending  our  brethren  to  the  Cape,  was  a  measure  necessarily  at 
tended  with  considerable  expense,  we  deem  it  important  to  state  to  you 
definitely  the  reasons  of  our  conduct;  and,  in  doing  this,  it  will  be  neces 
sary  to  give  a  concise  history  of  the  business.  The  last  attack  which 
brother  Warren  experienced  of  bleeding  from  his  lungs,  was  so  severe 
and  reduced  him  so  low,  that  we  greatly  feared  he  would  never  be  able 
to  be  removed  from  Colombo.  We  had  strong  desires,  that,  if  possible, 
he  might  be  removed  to  this  place,  and  spend  his  last  days  with  his  mis 
sionary  brethren  and  sisters.  But,  for  a  long  time,  it  appeared  to  those 
about  him,  that,  on  account  of  the  great  weakness  and  irritability  of  his 
lungs,  it  would  be  highly  imprudent  to  attempt  to  remove  him. 

"In  the  forepart  of  March,  brother  Richards,  who  had  been  at  Colombo 
for  some  time,  found  an  opportunity  of  engaging  a  passage  in  a  small 
vessel,  that  was  going  the  circuit  of  the  island;  and  in  this  he  first  came 
to  Jaffna,  where  he  arrived  on  the  15th  of  the  same  month.  While 
brother  Richards  remained  here,  a  letter  arrived  at  Colombo,  enclosing 
a  certificate  from  the  two  principal  physicians  at  that  place,  who  attended 
brother  Warren,  very  strongly  recommending,  that  he  should  take  a  pas 
sage  to  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope:  and,  on  account  of  the  need  he  would 
have  of  a  physician,  and  the  great  benefit,  which  brother  Richards  would, 
28 


218  REPORT.  1819. 

in  all  probability,  experience  by  the  voyage,  it  was  thought  best  that  he 
should  accompany  brother  Warren. 

"When  the  subject  came  before  us  at  our  meeting,  we  had  many  doubts, 
as  to  the  propriety  of  the  measure. — After  much  deliberation  and  prayer, 
however,  we  came  to  the  following  conclusion: — That  it  was  expedient 
for  brother  Richards  to  return  immediately  to  Colombo,  and  not  to  prose 
cute  his  voyage  round  the  island.  If,  after  his  arrival  at  that  place,  all 
things  appeared  favorable  for  their  going,  they  had  our  permission  to  go. 
We  also  concluded,  that  brother  Richards  must  be  the  judge,  whether 
all  things  were  favorable  or  not,  after  knowing  our  opinion  and  feelings 
on  the  subject.  We  had,  however,  but  faint  expectations  that  our  breth 
ren  would  go.  We  thought  it  hardly  probable,  that  a  good  opportunity 
would  be  presented,  as  vessels  would  not  come  to  Colombo,  after  the 
middle  of  May.  We  feared  that  brother  Warren's  health  would  be  such 
as  to  render  it  inadmissible  to  attempt  to  remove  him  to  the  vessel.  We 
did  not  know,  that  our  funds  would  be  sufficient  to  meet  the  expense, 
without  very  much  curtailing  our  missionary  operations  here.  All  these 
difficulties  were  in  the  providence  of  God  to  be  removed,  before  they 
could  go,  as  it  will  appear  in  the  sequel  that  they  were. 

"Soon  after  brother  Richards'  arrival  at  Colombo,  the  weather  there 
became  suddenly  cooler,  and  brother  Warren's  health  was  evidently  much 
benefitted  by  the  change.  The  physicians  had  before  given  their  opinion, 
that  he  ought  to  be  removed  to  a  cooler  climate,  that  he  might  recover 
strength.  They  now  urged  this  as  an  additional  reason  why  he  should 
go  to  the  Cape,  in  preference  to  any  part  of  India. 

"The  venerable  Archdeacon  Tvvisleton  was  so  kind,  as  to  offer  to  write 
to  the  governor,  then  in  Candy,  to  request,  that  a  free  passage  might  be 
granted  to  our  brethren  on  board  one  of  the  government  transports,  which 
was  expected  shortly  from  the  coast,  and  would  then  sail  immediately  to 
the  Cape.  The  request  was  very  generously  complied  with  by  his  excel 
lency,  governor  Brownrigg.  Our  brethren,  however,  were  to  find  their  own 
provisions  for  the  voyage.  We  are  informed,  that  brother  Richards  spent 
much  time  in  conversation  with  brother  Warren,  on  the  subject,  and  par 
ticularly  with  his  physicians.  He  found  brother  Warren  very  desirous  to  go. 
He  entertained  a  strong  persuasion,  that  a  voyage  to  the  Cape  and  back 
again,  would  be  the  means,  under  God,  of  restoring  him  to  a  comfortable 
degree  of  health;  and  he  had  a  strong  desire  to  Jive  that  he  might  do  some 
thing  for  the  heathen.  His  physicians,  also,  concurred  in  the  same 
opinion,  respecting  the  probable  benefit  to  be  experienced  from  the  voyage. 
In  conversation  with  brother  Richards  they  stated  distinctly,  that,  in  their 
opinion,  there  was  a  great  degree  of  probability,  that  the  voyage  would 
be  the  means  of  so  far  restoring  brother  Warren  to  health,  that  he  might 
be  useful  in  the  mission  for  some  years,  although  they  did  not  think  he 
would  ever  again  be  able  to  preach.  After  this  opinion  was  given,  brother 
Richards  said,  that  he  felt  it  to  be  his  duty  to  advise  brother  Warren  to  go. 
All  the  circumstances  appeared  to  him  favorable.  The  opportunity  was 
a  very  good  one.  The  expense  would  not  be  very  great:  and  brother 
Warren's  health  was  so  much  better,  that  it  was  thought  proper  to  attempt 
to  remove  him  to  the  vessel. 

"On  the  return  of  the  two  transports,  they  were  offered  their  choice  of 
the  one,  in  which  they  would  sail.  After  brother  Richards  and  brother 


1819.  REPORT.  219 

Chater  had  been  on  board  of  both,  they  chose  the  Regalia.  Every  thing 
on  board  was  found  convenient  for  the  voyage.  The  captain  was  a  very 
agreeable  and  obliging  man,  and  the  ship,  in  which  they  were  to  sail, 
almost  empty.  As  the  rules  of  the  ship  would  not  permit  them  to  furnish 
their  own  provisions,  the  captain  agreed  to  furnish  them  with  every  thing 
necessary,  for  thirty -five  pounds  each,  which  was  considered  at  Colombo 
to  be  very  reasonable. 

"On  Saturday,  April  25th,  they  attempted  to  remove  brother  Warren 
to  the  ship,  arid  succeeded  beyond  their  expectations.  When  he  arrived 
at  the  wharf,  however,  he  had  symptoms  of  bleeding  from  the  lungs;  but 
soon  after  he  was  put  on  board,  these  symptoms  subsided;  and  before 
brother  Chater  left  them  in  the  evening,  brother  Warren  was  quite  com 
fortable.  At  eight  o'clock  the  next  morning,  the  transports  set  sail  with 
a  fair  wind,  and  proceeded  on  their  voyage." 

For  the  greater  part  of  their  voyage,  as  appears  by  a  letter  written  by 
Mr.  Richards,  after  their  arrival  at  the  Cape,  the  weather  was  very  favor 
able;  and  the  health  of  both  the  brethren,  particularly  of  Mr.  Warren, 
was  so  much  recruited,  as  to  afford  hope  of  its  being  in  a  good  measure 
restored.  These  propitious  circumstances  continued,  until  they  came  in 
sight  of  land,  and  expected  to  be  in  port  at  the  Cape  in  about  two  days. 
The  scene  was  changed.  They  encountered  heavy  gales, — were  driven 
out  to  sea, — and  for  a  fortnight  were  tossed  upon  the  waves  in  cold  and 
boisterous  weather.  They  landed  at  Simon's  Bay  in  the  forepart  of  July, 
and  were  conveyed  thence  to  Cape  Town,  on  the  14th  of  the  same 
month.  Both  of  them  had  taken  severe  cold,  and  their  health  was  much 
depressed. 

They  were  received  at  Cape  Town  with  distinguished  kindness;  and 
particularly  in  the  Rev.  George  Thorn,  missionary  there  from  the  London 
Missionary  Society,  they  found  a  friend  and  a  brother,  who,  by  his  assid 
uous  attentions,  conferred  great  obligations  upon  them  and  upon  their 
patrons  and  friends.  Your  Committee  feel  a  satisfaction  of  no  ordinary 
kind  in  recording  the  following  passages  of  a  letter  to  the  Corresponding 
Secretary,  written  by  Mr.  Thorn,  at  the  instance  of  the  brethren,  four 
days  after  their  arrival. 

"I  cannot  describe  to  you  the  pain  I  have  felt  on  seeing  these  dear 
brethren — pain,  indeed,  of  a  different  kind  from  what  some  of  us  have 
of  late  been  called  to  experience  in  Africa.  Though  worn  down  by  dis 
ease,  particularly  Mr.  Warren, — yet  the  heart  is  on  the  right  object.  "If 
I  am  so  ill,"  says  Mr.  Warren,  "that  it  would  be  a  great  risk  to  under 
take  another  voyage,  then  let  me  die  in  the  blessed  work."  Mr.  Rich 
ards  seems  to  afford  some  hope  of  recovery;  but  the  three  medical  gen 
tlemen,  who  have  met  to  consider  their  case,  say  they  can  hold  out  but 
little  hope  of  the  recovery  of  Mr.  Warren.  Both  are  in  a  consumption. 
"We  have  provided  them  a  lodging  at  the  most  reasonable  rate,  and  I 
shall  do  my  utmost  in  their  behalf.  Permission  has  been  granted  by  the 
colonial  Government  for  their  residence;  and  several  of  our  pious  friends 
express  great  sympathy  on  their  account. 

"The  trials,  to  which  your  Board  have  been  called,  have  been  uncom 
mon,  but  not  so  great  as  others:  and  the  painful  trial  in  the  present  in 
stance  of  two  holy  and  prudent  brethren,  being  driven  by  disease  from 
the  sphere  of  their  missionary  labors,  will,  no  doubt,  be  deeply  felt;  and, 


REPORT.  1819. 

if  it  should  please  our  Lord  and  Master  to  remove  them  from  his  church 
on  earth,  great  will  be  the  affliction.  One  thing  gives  me  infinite  delight, 
to  behold  the  dear  brethren  entirely  resigned  to  the  will  of  their  heavenly 
Father,  and  with  comfortable  views  of  their  interest  in  his  love. 

"The  Rev.  archdeacon  Twistleton  of  Colombo,  says,  in  his  letter  of 
introduction  to  me,  'The  American  missionaries,  Messrs.  Richards  and 
Warren,  I  recommend  to  your  brotherly  love.  Men  of  more  amiable 
manners  and  purer  piety  I  never  saw!  to  these  qualities  may  be  added 
others,  amongst  which  are  gratitude,  discretion,  and  benevolence.  May 
it  please  the  Eternal  God  to  restore  them  to  health  and  renewed  exertion 
in  his  service.'  For  this  testimony  the  Board  will  give  God  praise." 

This  devout  assurance  Mr.  Thorn  might  well  express.  Such  a  testi 
mony  from  archdeacon  Twistleton,  so  well  known  to  this  Board,  and  to 
the  Christian  community  in  this  country,  for  his  many  acts  of  favor  to 
our  beloved  missionaries,  and  to  the  general  cause  of  missions,  cannot 
fail  to  excite  gratitude  to  the  adorable  Fountain  of  all  good. 

In  about  three  weeks  after  the  date  of  Mr.  Thorn's  letter,  on  the  llth 
of  August,  Mr.  Warren  rested  from  his  labors  and  sufferings. 

The  missionary  course  of  this  lamented  servant  of  the  Lord  Jesus, 
short  as  it  pleased  Sovereign  Goodness  it  should  be,  was  marked  with 
celestial  radiance.  His  brethren,  who  were  associated  with  him  in  the 
scenes  of  his  toils  and  trials,  bear  united  and  most  affectionate  testimony 
to  his  eminent  and  uniform  devotedness  to  the  holy  cause, — his  ardent, 
yet  benign  and  well  directed  zeal, — his  alacrity  and  diligence  in  labors, 
— his  patience  and  cheerful  equanimity  in  sufferings, — his  wisdom  in 
counsel  and  prudence  in  action, — his  kindness  of  disposition,  his  heavenly 
mindedness,  and  his  general  excellence  of  character.  During  his  length 
ened  illness,  his  exemplary  resignation,  his  sweet  serenity  of  mind,  and 
his  heavenly  conversation  were  in  a  high  degree  edifying,  and  inspiring. 
His  last  days  and  closing  scene,  as  described  by  his  afflicted  friend  and 
companion,  Mr.  Richards,  were  such,  as  this  Board  and  all  the  friends  of 
the  cause  would  wish  those  of  every  missionary  to  be: — marked  with  a 
lively  and  steadfast  confidence  in  the  Lord  Jesus,-— solaced  with  a  sacred 
and  cheering  enjoyment  of  the  divine  presence  and  love, — and  brightened 
with  visions,  not  fantastic,  of  the  glories  of  immortality. 

His  flesh  rests  in  hope  at  no  great  distance  from  that  of  Mrs.  Newell; 
his  spirit,  we  cannot  doubt,  is  with  hers,  and  with  those  of  the  apostles 
and  prophets,  and  all  the  multitude  of  the  redeemed,  before  the  throne  of 
God  and  the  Lamb. — To  the  Father  of  mercies,  and  God  of  all  grace, 
everlasting  thanks  are  due,  for  such  examples  of  living  and  dying, — such 
seals  to  the  missionary  cause. 

Mr.  Richards,  after  burying  his  friend,  remained  at  the  Cape,  with  no 
very  material  alterations  in  his  case,  until  the  25th  of  November,  when, 
not  finding  an  opportunity  for  a  direct  return  to  Ceylon,  he  embarked  for 
Madras; — hoping  that,  in  no  long  time,  he  might  thence  get  back  to  his 
wife  and  his  brethren  at  the  seat  of  the  mission.  His  letters,  written  at 
the  time,  breathe  a  spirit  eminently  Christian. 

"On  the  whole,"  he  says,  "I  think  the  opportunity  a  very  good  one. 
The  Lord  is  always  exceedingly  kind  to  me,  and  I  desire  to  be  thankful, 
and  to  make  mention  of  his  unspeakable  mercy.  Though  he  has  been 
trying  me  with  afflictions  ever  since  I  landed  in  Ceylon,  he  has  tried  me 


1819.  REPORT.  221 

more  with  mercies.  I  think  I  can  truly  say,  I  find  it  good  to  be  afflic 
ted/3 — "I  do  not  expect  to  recover  from  this  sickness;  but  think  it  possi 
ble  that  I  may  live  many  months.  I  have  a  desire  to  return  to  Ceylon, 
that  I  may  die  on  missionary  ground,  and  in  the  bosom  of  my  friends. — 
As  I  draw  nearer  the  grave,  my  hope  of  salvation  through  the  atonement 
of  Christ  becomes  stronger,  and  my  views  of  heaven  become  more  and 
more  pleasant." 

The  latest  letters  from  Ceylon  make  mention,  that  intelligence  had  just 
been  received  of  Mr.  Richards'  arrival  at  Madras,  in  much  the  same  state 
of  health,  as  when  he  left  the  Cape.* — He  is  in  the  hand  of  his  Divine 
Master,  the  sovereign  and  gracious,  and  all-sufficient  Lord  of  missions. 
Living  or  dying  he  is  safe;  and  the  cause,  to  which  his  heart  has  been  so 
evidently  devoted,  will  be  advanced. 

Our  Ceylon  mission,  thus  afflicted  and  weakened,  has  been  regarded 
with  deep  sympathy  and  concern.  The  purpose  of  your  Committee,  as 
expressed  at  the  last  annual  meeting,  to  use  all  diligence  in  strengthening 
the  mission,  and  all  care  to  prevent  a  failure  of  its  hopes,  has  not  been 
dormant. 

Immediately  after  the  meeting,  the  resolution  was  decisively  taken  to 
send  more  missionaries  to  Ceylon;  and  Messrs,  Miron  Winslow,  Levi 
Spaulding  and  Henry  Woodward,  were  appointed  for  the  service. 

On  the  4th  of  November,  at  the  Tabernacle  Church  in  Salem,  the 
individuals  now  named,  and  Mr.  Pliny  Fisk,  were  publicly  set  apart  for 
the  service  of  God  in  the  Gospel  of  his  Son  among  the  heathen,  by  solemn 
ordination.  In  impressive  tokens  of  the  divine  presence; — in  a  deep  felt 
interest  in  the  holy  cause; — in  a  lively  and  exalted  participation  in  the 
appropriate  services;  in  union  of  sentiment  and  feeling,  and  fellowship  in 
the  breaking  of  bread, — the  occasion  was  equal  to  any,  which  your  Com 
mittee  had  ever  the  privilege  to  witness. 

The  hope  was  entertained,  that  the  three  brethren  designated  for  Cey 
lon,  might  be  embarked  in  a  few  weeks  after  their  ordination,  and  prep 
arations  for  the  purpose  were  actively  put  forward.  No  opportunity,  how 
ever,  was  offered  for  conveyance  to  the  field  of  their  labors,  until  after  the 
lapse  of  the  winter  and  spring. 

The  delay  was  irksome;  but  Providence  had  a  kind  intention.  Just 
in  season  to  go  at  the  time  finally  fixed  upon,  yet  not  without  the  neces 
sity  of  great  despatch  in  preparation,  John  Scudder,  M.  D.  a  young  phy 
sician  of  good  professional  reputation  and  practice  in  the  city  of  New- 
York,  and  of  well  established  Christian  character,  after  having  long  delib 
erated  on  the  subject,  came  to  the  determination  to  make  a  sacrifice  of 
his  worldly  prospects,  and  of  all  that  could  attach  him  to  his  native  coun 
try,  for  the  benefit  of  the  heathen,  and  the  glory  of  Christ.  Being 
apprised  of  the  expected  departure  of  the  three  waiting  missionaries,  he 
made  a  solemn  offer  of  himself,  his  wife  and  child,  to  be  sent  with  them 
to  Ceylon. 

Dr.  Scudder  had  for  several  years  entertained  serious  thoughts  of  the 
ministry;  had  addicted  himself  to  theological  reading  and  study;  and  been 
accustomed  to  take  a  part  in  social  religious  exercises.  It  would,  there 
fore,  accord  with  his  feelings  and  desires,  to  prosecute  sacred  studies, 

*  Since  this  Report  was  made,  a  letter  has  been  received  from  Bombay,  which  mentions  the 
arrival  of  Mr.  R.  at  the  seat  of  the  mission  in  Ceylon. 


222  REPORT.  1819. 

enjoying  the  aid  of  the  brethren  with  whom  he  might  be  associated, 
during  his  passage  and  after  his  arrival,  until  it  should  be  deemed  proper 
for  him  to  receive  ordination;  and,  in  the  mean  time,  arid  ever  afterwards, 
to  hold  his  medical  science  and  skill  sacredly  devoted,  and  to  be  em 
ployed  as  opportunity  should  be  afforded,  for  the  benevolent  purposes  of 
the  mission. 

Desirable  as  it  was,  that  the  deeply  deplored  breach,  made  by  the 
removal  of  Mr.  Warren  from  the  mission,  from  its  hospital,  and  from  the 
miserable  multitudes  to  whom  his  medical  practice  promised  to  open  the 
most  hopeful  access  for  the  Gospel,  should  be  supplied;  your  Committee 
could  not  but  regard  the  offer  of  Dr.  Scudder,  as  signally  providential. 
His  testimonials  were  ample  and  satisfactory;  and  he  was  gratefully 
accepted. 

On  the  8th  of  June,  the  three  ordained  missionaries,  and  the  beloved 
physician,  with  their  wives,  having  previously  received  the  instructions, 
and  the  affectionate  counsels  and  exhortations  of  the  Committee,  em 
barked  at  Boston,  on  board  the  brig  Indus,  bound  to  Calcutta,  but 
engaged  provisionally  to  touch  at  Ceylon.  It  was  a  scene  of  sacred  and 
melting  tenderness;  and  while  the  parting  hymn  was  sung,  and  the 
valedictory  prayer  was  offered, — devoutly  commending  them  to  the  grace 
of  God  for  the  holy  and  arduous  service  to  which  they  were  devoted, — 
a  numerous  assemblage  of  friends  and  spectators  attested  the  deep  sym 
pathy  and  interest,  with  which  their  hearts  were  affected,  by  many  tears. 
It  may  be  hoped,  that  the  fervent  desires  of  many  hearts  are  in  gracious 
remembrance  with  Him,  who  rules  the  elements;  and  that  within  three 
or  four  weeks  from  this  time,  a  scene  scarcely  less  tender, — a  scene  not 
of  parting  but  of  meeting, — will  be  enjoyed  in  Ceylon. 

The  circumstances  and  operations  of  the  mission  at  Ceylon  are  consid 
erably  different  from  those  at  Bombay.  As  there  has  been  extant  for 
many  years  a  good  translation  of  the  Scriptures  into  the  Tamul  or  Mala- 
barian,  the  common  language  of  the  northern  part  of  Ceylon,  where  the 
mission  is  established;  our  missionaries  there  have  no  occasion  to  employ 
themselves  in  making  a  translation, — an  arduous  work  which  occupies 
no  inconsiderable  portion  of  the  time  and  laborious  attention  of  our  Bom 
bay  mission.  Nor  have  they  yet  at  Ceylon  got  the  printing  establish 
ment  into  operation.  They  have  a  press  and  types,  both  Tamul  and 
English, — and  apparatus  and  paper;  and  in  no  long  time,  it  is  hoped,  will 
have  a  sufficiency  of  hands  for  commencing  the  printing  of  the  Scriptures 
and  other  books  and  tracts.  An  edition  of  the  Tamul  Scriptures  is 
greatly  needed;  as  are  also  other  books  for  their  schools,  for  distribution, 
and  the  various  purposes  of  the  mission. 

The  labors  of  this  mission  have  consisted  chiefly,  hitherto,  in  preach 
ing  to  the  people,  establishing  and  superintending  schools,  and  instruct 
ing  children  in  the  family;  with  the  necessary  preparations  for  these  im 
portant  departments  of  labor. 

At  the  three  stations  of  the  Bo.mbay  Mission,  the  brethren  are  in  the 
midst  of  large  cities,  comprising  in  all  not  less  than  two  hundred  thou 
sand  souls;  and  throughout  which  they  preach  and  distribute  books  and 
tracts  to  the  people  in  the  streets,  at  their  houses  and  temples,  and  differ 
ent  places  of  resort,  as  opportunities  are  afforded, — but  without  the  satis 
faction  and  advantage  of  stated  places  and  regular  assemblies.  The 


1819.  REPORT.  223 

Ceylon  mission  is  in  a  country  of  villages,  where  the  people,  though  not 
thinly  scattered,  are  yet  very  differently  situated  from  those  in  crowded 
cities.  In  general,  they  are  less  deeply  immersed  in  the  darkness  and 
corruptions  of  paganism,  and  have  more  activity  of  intellect,  more  knowl 
edge,  and  more  disposition  to  listen  and  inquire,  than  the  mass  of  the 
Hindoos  of  Bombay. 

Besides  Tillipally  and  Batticotta,  the  two  stations  of  the  mission,  the 
brethren  have  six  other  large  parishes  under  their  particular  care  Malla- 
gum,  Milettee,  and  Panditeripo,  belonging  to  the  Tillipally  station;  and 
Changane,  Oodooville,  and  Manepy,  belonging  to  the  station  of  Batti 
cotta. 

In  these  parishes,  as  formerly  reported,  there  are  ancient  church  build 
ings  and  glebes,  which  our  missionaries  have  been  permitted  to  occupy, 
and  which,  after  considerable  expense  in  repairs,  are  of  great  advantage 
to  the  mission.  And  within  these  parishes  chiefly,  though  not  solely,  the 
brethren  have  bestowed  their  labors  and  attentions;  making  their  circuits 
from  week  to  week,  for  preaching,  visiting  the  schools,  and  the  various 
purposes  of  the  mission. 

For  a  considerable  time,  they  could  of  course  preach  to  the  native 
people  only  by  interpreters;  but  now,  for  more  than  a  year,  both  Mr. 
Poor  and  Mr.  Meigs  have  been  able  to  preach  in  the  language  of  the 
country. 

The  instruction  of  children,  however,  .has  been  with  them,  from  the 
beginning,  an  object  of  very  earnest  attention.  They  early  took  the 
resolution  to  establish  schools  in  all  the  parishes  under  their  care,  the 
superintendence  of  which  should  be  assigned  in  divisions  to  the  several 
brethren  of  the  mission;  and  to  extend  the  system  to  as  great  an  am 
plitude,  as  they  should  find  themseli»es  able.  But  their  operations  have 
been  retarded  by  the  afflictive  dispensations  towards  Messrs.  Warren  and 
Richards. 

In  a  joint  letter,  bearing  date  May  24,  1818,  Messrs.  Meigs  and  Poor 
say: 

"Our  schools,  for  reasons  which  we  have  before  mentioned,  are  not  so 
numerous  as  we  hoped  they  would  be  before  this  time.  But  still  we  are 
making  advances  in  this  good  work.  The  school  at  Tillipally  is  in  a 
flourishing  state,  and  consists  of  forty  boys.  Twelve  of  these  brother 
Poor  has  taken  from  their  parents,  and  they  are  supported  at  the  expense 
of  the  mission.  They  are  making  very  good  progress,  both  in  Tamul 
and  English.  The  school  at  Panditeripo,  between  three  and  four  miles  west 
of  Tillipally,  established  and  superintended  by  Mr.  Poor,  consists  of  36 
boys.  The  school  at  Batticotta  consists  at  present  of  40  boys;  since  we 
wrote  last,  it  has  been,  for  a  time,  much  less  than  that.  Many  boys  will 
attend  the  school  for  one,  two,  or  three  months,  and  then  be  taken  away 
by  their  parents  for  various  reasons;  but  principally,  because  they  need 
them  to  labor.  This  is  indeed  a  trial;  but  one  which  we  must  expect 
to  meet  often,  till  these  people  have  learned  the  value  of  an  education. 

"About  the  middle  of  April,  brother  Meigs  opened  a  school  in  another 
part  of  Batticotta,  where  he  goes  to  preach  every  Sabbath  afternoon, 
which  already  consists  of  30  fine  boys,  and  is  almost  every  day  increas 
ing.  He  has  now  also  opened  a  school  in  Changane,  the  next  parish 
north  of  Batticotta.  This  school  has  been  opened  a  fortnight,  and  con- 


224  REPORT.  1819. 

sists  of  upwards  of  30  boys.  The  whole  number  of  boys,  in  the  schools 
superintended  by  brother  Meigs,  is  100;  those  of  brother  Poor  76;  in  all 
176  boys." 

Only  six  months  after  this,  in  his  journal  of  November,  Mr.  Poor 
states: 

"Near  our  house  is  a  heathen  school,  which  has  been  taught  many 
years  by  a  man  now  considerably  advanced  in  age.  He  has  in  his  school 
about  thirty  boys,  the  children  of  stout  heathens,  who  would  not  send 
them  to  this  place.  I  ha.ve  lately  several  times  visited  the  school,  and 
become  acquainted  with  the  master  and  boys.  This  evening,  the  master 
came  to  make  proposals  for  putting  the  school  under  my  superintendence. 
I  agreed  to  give  him  four  rix  dollars  a  month,  on  condition,  that  he  should 
instruct  thirty  boys,  and  that  I  should  have  the  direction  of  their  studies. 
He  is  doubtless  influenced  to  do  this  by  the  hope  of  obtaining  one  dollar 
a  month;  and  the  parents  consent  to  it,  on  condition  that  they  shall  make 
him  no  compensation  for  his  services.  These  boys  have  proceeded  fur 
ther  in  their  studies,  than  those  who  have  hitherto  been  received  into 
my  schools.  This  is  the  eighth  school  connected  with  this  station.  As 
these  schools  are  in  six  different  parishes,  it  would  be  impossible  for  me 
properly  to  superintend  them,  had  I  not  the  assistance  of  Maleappa,  who 
is  at  Mallagum,  and  of  my  interpreter.  At  this  time,  my  schools  are 
well  attended.  The  whole  number  of  boys  in  the  eight  schools  is  nearly 
four  hundred." 

These  statements  shew  a  rapid  and  very  animating  increase.  The 
total  number  of  pupils  under  the  care  of  Mr.  Meigs  at  this  time,  is  not 
in  any  of  the  communications  so  definitely  given.  In  September,  how 
ever,  two  months  earlier,  he  had  five  schools — four  in  Batticotta  and  one 
at  Changane;  and  was  intending  soon  to  establish  others  in  Manepy  and 
Oodooville. 

It  may  be  pretty  safely  estimated,  that  at  the  close  of  the  year  1818, 
the  period  to  which  the  present  Report  brings  down  the  history  of  the 
mission,  the  total  number  of  pupils  in  the  schools  belonging  to  the  two 
stations,  was  about  seven  hundred. 

Highly  gratifying,  also,  is  the  success  in  obtaining  children  to  be  held 
under  the  special  care  of  the  missionaries,  and  brought  up  in  the  nurture 
and  admonition  of  the  Lord,  in  their  families.  In  Mr.  Poor's  there  were, 
at  the  last  dates,  twenty-four  native  boys;  to  whom,  or  the  most  of  whom, 
select  names  were  given,  denoting  them  as  the  beneficiaries,  respectively, 
of  particular  societies  or  individuals  in  this  country;  and  of  whom,  as  to 
their  minds,  their  behavior,  and  their  improvement,  very  pleasing  ac 
counts  are  given.  The  number  in  Mr.  Meigs's  family  is  not  stated;  but 
would  seem,  from  facts  and  circumstances  incidentally  mentioned,  to  be 
considerable,  and  fast  increasing. 

In  this  place,  the  following  brief  extracts  from  the  journals  and  letters 
of  Messrs.  Meigs  and  Poor,  may  be  interesting  to  the  Board,  as  they  will 
shew,  in  varied  lights,  the  state  and  labors,  the  spirit  and  prospects  of 
the  mission. 

In  the  journal  of  the  Batticotta  station,  Mr.  Meigs  writes: 

"Sabbath,  June  8,  1818.  The  number  of  our  boys  is  fast  increasing 
on  the  Sabbath.  To-day  106  were  present,  besides  30  other  persons." 


1819.  REPORT.  225 

"June  29.  A  pleasant  Sabbath.  One  hundred  and  thirty  boys  were 
present,  besides  a  goodly  number  of  men." 

"Aug.  26.  After  much  delay,  and  many  difficulties,  have  this  day 
commenced  boarding  heathen  boys,  in  the  cook  house,  which  I  have 
erected  for  them.  I  commenced  with  five  boys.  This  is  an  important  day 
in  the  history  of  this  mission: — the  commencement,  I  hope,  of  much 
good  to  these  poor  heathen  boys.  It  will,  however,  greatly  increase  our 
cares.  We  expect  to  meet  many  trials  in  pursuing  this  object. 

"One  of  my  neighbors,  who  is  a  strong  heathen,  whose  boy  attends  the 
day  school,  says  frequently  in  a  triumphant  tone,  'When  you  can  per 
suade  four  boys  of  good  caste  from  Batticotta,  to  come  and  live  with  you, 
I  will  then  give  you  my  boy;'  meaning  to  assert  strongly,  the  great  im 
probability,  if  not  impossibility,  of  my  getting  them.  I  have  two,  how 
ever,  from  Batticotta  already,  besides  the  one  abovementioned,  whose 
relatives  by  threats  prevented  him  from  coming.  The  triumph  of  this 
man,  I  trust,  will  be  short." 

"Sept.  5.  A  number  more  of  boys  have  applied  to  be  received  into 
the  school  and  supported.  When  I  am  not  previously  acquainted  with 
the  boys,  I  take  them  a  few  days  upon  trial,  before  I  make  a  fin-al  agree 
ment  with  their  parents.  It  is  highly  gratifying  to  Christian  feelings,  to 
witness  the  change  that  is  made  in  the  appearance  of  these  boys,  in  a 
few  days.  We  give  them  a  plain  cloth,  of  a  yard  and  a  half  or  two  yards 
in  length,  according  to  their  size,  to  cover  them.  We  give  them  plain 
food,  as  much  as  they  need.  This  change  in  their  circumstances  not 
only  surprisingly  alters  the  appearance  of  the  boys,  but  also  increases 
the  vigor  of  their  minds  and  bodies. 

"It  has  always  been  principally  to  the  poor,  that  the  gospel  is  preach 
ed.  So  it  is  among  this  people.  It  is  from  this  class  that  we  must  look 
for  boys  to  be  supported  and  educated  in  our  families.  The  rich  are 
usually  unwilling  to  give  us  their  sons;  and  even  if  they  were  willing,  we 
should  not  think  it  expedient  to  take  them;  for  they  commonly  give  us 
much  trouble  by  their  complaints  about  their  food  and  clothing.  We 
greatly  prefer  poor  boys  on  this  account;  and  even  orphans,  when  we 
can  obtain  them.  Many,  who  are  brought  here,  are  destitute  of  one  or 
both  their  parents;  and  on  this  account,  as  also  on  account  of  their  pov 
erty,  are  objects  of  charity. 

"Sept.  23.  Christian  David  came  out  to  Batticotta  to  spend  the  day 
with  us  and  preach  to  the  people.  In  the  morning,  I  collected  the  boys 
from  my  four  schools  in  Batticotta.  Two  of  these  have  been  but  recently 
opened,  and  contain  but  few  boys.  There  were  present,  however,  from 
these  four  schools,  120  boys.  Other  people  assembled,  which  made  the 
number  200.  Our  large  room  was  well  filled.  The  Changane  school 
was  not  called  here,  as  we  had  made  an  appointment  to  go  to  that  place 
and  preach  in  the  school-house.  After  service  was  ended  at  Batticotta, 
we  accordingly  went  thither,  and  held  public  worship.  The  school  at 
Changane  consisted  of  77  boys,  of  whom  60  were  present.  In  all,  we 
had  115  hearers.  The  people  had  covered  the  floor  of  the  school-house 
with  mats,  and  placed  chairs  for  us  to  sit  in,  covered  with  white  cloth. 
We  then  visited  a  family  of  Roman  Catholics  in  the  neighborhood,  and 
partook  of  some  refreshment  in  the  native  style,  and  returned  home  well 
pleased  with  our  excursion." 
29 


226  REPORT.  1819. 

A  daughter  of  Christian  David,  who  is  about  15  years  of  age,  is  liv 
ing  with  us  for  the  purpose  of  making  further  progress  in  English 
studies.  She  is  a  very  amiable  young  woman. 

" Oct.  3.  Have  commenced  a  new  plan  with  my  schoolmasters,  which 
is,  to  assemble  them  all  on  Saturday  afternoon,  to  hear  a  report  of  their 
schools,  and  to  communicate  to  them  religious  instruction.  They  had 
before  been  accustomed  to  come  on  Sabbath  evening.  But  as  some  of 
them  live  at  a  considerable  distance,  this  is  often  found  inconvenient.  It 
is  very  important,  that  those  who  are  employed  to  teach  others,  should 
themselves  be  instructed. — 

"12th.  Yesterday  attended  the  communion  at  Tillipally:  preached  in 
Tamul  to  800  people,  and  baptized  the  infant  son  of  brother  Poor.  It 
was  a  very  interesting  day. 

"19.  The  Rev.  Messrs.  Squance,  Gogerly,  Knight,  and  Christian 
David,  came  here  to  spend  the  day.  Mr.  David  preached  to  a  good  audi 
ence  of  the  natives. 

"25th.  It  is  pleasant  to  witness  the  change  which  is  gradually  effected, 
in  some  instances,  in' the  minds  of  the  natives.  Their  prejudices,  we 
may  expect,  will  by  degrees  wear  away.  The  man  mentioned  above, 
who  boasted  that  we  should  never  be  able  to  get  four  boys  of  good  caste 
from  Batticotta  to  eat  with  us,  is  an  instance  to  illustrate  this  remark. 
Though  a  very  strong  heathen,  and  violently  opposed  to  the  truth,  yet  he 
spends  the  greatest  part  of  his  time  at  our  house.  His  son  is  a  lovely 
boy,  and  the  father  is  often  in  the  school  and  very  diligent  in  teaching 
him.  He  is  almost  always  present  at  our  morning  worship  in  Tamul,  and 
has  not  been  absent  from  meeting  on  the  Sabbath  for  a  long  time,  and 
always  gives  good  attention.  Yet  when  conversed  with  on  the  subject  of 
religion,  he  shews  a  very  strong  attachment  to  his  own  superstitions; 
though  he  will  admit,  that  much  we  tell  him  of  the  Christian  religion  is 
good  and  true.  For  some  days  past,  he  has  permitted  his  son  to  stay 
here  through  the  night,  and  sleep  with  my  boys.  The  lad  usually  goes 
also  to  the  cook  house  with  the  others,  when  they  take  their  meals,  though 
he  does  not  eat  with  them.  To-day  the  man  told  Mrs.  Meigs,  that  we 
had  succeeded  in  getting  more  than  four  boys,  anjl  asked  her  if  she  did 
not  want  his  son?  She  told  him,  no;  for  she  expected  we  should  be  able 
to  take  as  many  poor  boys,  as  we  had  money  to  support.  He  then  told 
her,  that  she  might  have  his  son,  if  she  wanted  him, — that  he  might 
stay  here  and  sleep  with  the  other  boys,  and  learn  such  things  as  we 
wished  him  to  learn;  only,  as  he  lived  so  near  us,  it  was  better  for  the 
boy  to  take  his  meals  at  home.  I  should  not  be  surprised,  if,  in  a  few 
days,  he  should  propose  to  have  his  son  eat  with  the  other  boys." 

The  next  are  notices  by  Mr.  Poor,  in  the  journal  of  Tillipally. 

"June  llth.  Visited  the  school  at  Milette  for  the  first  time.  Found 
thirty-three  boys  present,  five  of  whom  were  able  to  read  on  the  olla. 
Most  of  the  others  are  learning  the  Tamul  alphabet.  The  head  man  of 
the  parish,  and  several  others,  parents  of  the  school  boys,  were  present, 
to  whom  I  explained  the  object  of  my  coming  into  the  country,  and  prayed 
with  them.  Their  curiosity  was  considerably  excited,  because  I  spoke 
to  them  in  Tamul.  Though  I  spoke  with  a  stammering  tongue,  more 
attention  appears  to  have  been  excited  to  what  I  said,  than  when  I  speak 
by  an  interpreter. 


1819.  REPORT.  227 

"July  1.  Our  weekly  prayer  meetings  on  Wednesday  evenings  have 
become  more  interesting  of  late,  in  consequence  of  my  having  requested 
all  the  schoolmasters  connected  with  this  station  to  attend,  that  they  may 
give  to  me,  arid  to  each  other,  some  account  of  their  schools,  and  receive 
instructions  and  directions  from  me. 

"July  6.  T  have  this  day  finished  two  school  houses,  which  I  have 
been  building  on  the  church  land  at  Mallagum.  One  is  for  a  school, 
which  was  commenced  a  few  weeks  ago,  and  the  other  is  for  Franciscus 
Maleappa  to  live  in.  We  regard  Maleappa,  agreeably  to  his  own  and  his 
father's  wishes,  as  one  permanently  connected  with  our  mission;  and 
consider  ourselves  obliged  to  give  him  a  competent  support,  so  long  as 
his  conduct  is  worthy  of  his  station.  At  present,  he  receives  30  rix  dol 
lars*  per  month.  As  he  dresses  in  the  European  style,  his  expenses  are 
much  greater,  than  they  would  have  been,  if  he  had  retained  his  native 
dress. 

"That  the  Committee  may  have  a  correct  idea  of  every  branch  of  our 
mission,  it  is  necessary  to  give  some  further  account  of  Maleappa.  He 
is  a  native  of  Malabar,  about  20  years  of  age,  the  son  of  a  native  preacher, 
supported  by  government  at  Negombo.  He  was  one  or  two  years  in  the 
government  school  at  Jaffnapatam,  under  the  care  of  the  Rev.  C.  David. 
He  attended  the  school  taught  by  us,  during  the  six  months  we  were  at 
Colombo.  Since  brother  Warren  and  I  came  to  Tillipally,  he  has  served 
us  as  an  interpreter,  and  pursued  his  studies  with  reference  to  his  becom 
ing  a  catechist.  He  has  a  facility  in  speaking  to  the  people  on  those 
topics,  both  in  the  Christian  and  heathen  religion,  which  are  most  impor 
tant  to  be  insisted  on;  and  he  appears  to  take  a  delight  in  so  doing. 

"Sept.  9.  To  excite  among  the  people  attention  to  the  school,  I  have 
this  day  held  a  public  examination  of  the  boys  in  the  church.  The  effect 
appears  to  have  been  good,  both  on  the  parents  and  children. 

"Nov.  20.  Eight  girls  usually  attend  our  female  school  during  the 
week,  and  on  the  Sabbath  about  a  dozen  girls  attend  and  recite  the  cate 
chism.  About  the  same  number  of  women  attend  the  church." 

In  their  joint  letter  of  May  24th  of  the  last  year,  the  brethren  say, 

"We  are  highly  gratified  with  your  liberality  and  that  of  the  Christian 
public,  in  regard  to  schools.  The  expense  of  native  schools  is  a  mere 
trifle.  For  the  erection  of  a  suitable  building,  in  the  first  place,  we  must 
pay  about  16  dollars  ;  this  will  answer  very  well  to  preach  in  to  the  peo 
ple,  when  there  is  no  better  building.  Such  teachers  as  the  country 
affords,  who  only  teach  Tamul,  may  be  obtained  for  $1,50  per  month. 
To  those  who  have  sufficient  education  to  teach  English  as  well  as 
Tamul,  we  must  give  from  4  to  8  dollars  a  month. 

"The  expense  of  supporting  boys  in  our  families,  is  also  very  small. 
We  think  we  may  safely  say,  that  with  proper  economy,  a  boy  from  6  to 
12  or  14  years  of  age,  may  be  fed  and  clothed  in  the  native  style,  for 
one  Spanish  dollar  a  month,  or  twelve  dollars  a  year.  Older  boys 
will  require  a  little  more,  principally  because  their  dress  must  be  a  little 
more  expensive.  The  dress  of  the  native  children,  and  even  of  the  men 
generally,  is  of  the  most  simple  kind.  It  consists  merely  of  a  piece  of 
plain  India  cotton,  of  one  yard  in  width,  and  two  or  two  and  a  half  in 

*  Equal  to  about  eight  Spauish  dollars. 


228  REPORT.  1819. 

length,  wound  round  the  person.  From  the  statement  which  we  have 
made  respecting  the  education  and  support  of  children,  you  will  see  that 
we  have  here  an  opportunity  of  doing  great  good  at  a  comparatively 
small  expense.  We  have  no  doubt,  that  many  benevolent  individuals,  of 
both  sexes,  will  be  found  in  our  native  land,  who  will  rejoice  in  the  op 
portunity  of  contributing  the  small  sum  of  12  dollars  annually,  if  by  that 
means  they  may  rescue  a  heathen  youth,  of  promising  talents,  from  the 
miserable  condition  of  idolaters,  and  place  him  in  a  missionary  family, 
where  he  will  possess  many  of  the  advantages  of  being  educated,  which 
are  enjoyed  in  a  Christian  land.  In  what  manner  can  they  dispose  of 
this  sum  to  better  advantage?  In  what  fund  can  they  vest  it  where  it  will 
yield  greater  profit?  What  pure  and  exalted  pleasure  will  it  afford  them, 
in  the  day  of  judgment,  to  meet  some  of  these  heathen  children,  emanci 
pated  from  their  miserable  condition,  and  made  happy  forever,  through 
their  liberality.  Surely  the  object  is  great  enough  to  warrant  the  sacri 
fice  necessary  to  obtain  it.  Any  individual  or  society,  contributing  this 
sum  for  the  support  of  a  boy,  may  select  a  name  for  him.  We  regret 
exceedingly,  that  we  cannot  educate  female  children,  as  well  as  male.  If 
we  inquire  of  the  natives,  why  they  do  not  teach  their  girls  to  read,  their 
only  reply  is,  'We  have  no  such  custom  in  our  country.' " 

To  the  extracts  now  given,  your  Committee  will  add  only  the  following, 
from  the  latest  joint  letter,  bearing  date  Oct.  16,  1818. 

After  several  particular  acknowledgments  of  donations  from  societies 
and  individuals,  for  the  education  of  children  in  their  families,  the  breth 
ren  proceed  to  say, — 

"You,  Dear  Sir,  and  the  other  members  of  the  Board,  doubtless  partici 
pate  in  our  feelings  of  gratitude  towards  those,  who  are  disposed  to  assist 
the  cause,  in  a  manner  so  suited  to  our  wants,  and  so  directly  calculated 
to  strengthen  and  encourage  us  in  our  work.  It  can  hardly  be  conceived, 
by  persons  in  our  native  country,  how  great  is  the  difference  between  the 
boys,  generally,  in  this  heathen  land,  and  those  whom  we  have  taken, 
and  upon  whom  we  expend  one  dollar  per  month.  Their  manners,  dress, 
mode  of  living,  as  well  as  the  state  of  their  minds,  are  essentially  bene- 
fitted.  Verily  the  blessing  of  them,  who  are  ready  to  perish,  will  come 
upon  those,  who,  with  a  right  spirit,  give  but  a  mere  trifle  for  the  support 
of  heathen  boys. 

"We  have  often  expressed  to  you  our  conviction,  that  the  most  effec 
tual  means  that  can  be  used,  for  extending  and  perpetuating  a  knowledge 
of  Christianity  among  the  heathen,  is,  that  of  training  up  native  preachers, 
who  may  go  forth  properly  qualified  to  preach  to  their  countrymen.  It 
is  with  reference  to  this,  that  the  object  of  taking  children  into  our  fami 
lies  appears  to  be  of  primary  importance;  and  presents  powerful  motives 
to  us,  for  using  special  exertions  with  those  whom  we  have  taken. 

"We  have  before  mentioned  Franciscus  Meleappa,  a  native  of  the 
country,  who  for  a  year  and  a  half  served  the  brethren  atTillipally  as  an 
interpreter.  About  four  months  ago  he  was  stationed  at  Mallagum,  an 
adjoining  parish,  on  the  south  of  Tillipally.  He  there  instructs  a  few 
boys  in  English,  attends  to  the  moral  instruction  of  the  Tamul  school 
established  in  that  parish,  reads  to  the  people  on  the  Sabbath,  and  assists 
in  superintending  two  other  schools  in  that  vicinity.  We  indulge  a  hope, 
that  he  will  be  of  considerable  service  to  our  mission. 


1819.  REPORT.  229 

"We  trust,  Dear  Sir,  we  understand  something  of  the  nature  of  those 
feelings,  which  dictated  the  closing  injunction  of  your  last  letter  to  us. 
'Forget  not  that  your  great  concern  is  to  preach  the  Gospel.'  Could  we 
attend  to  this  duty  with  apostolic  zeal,  we  should  act  agreeably  to  our  con 
victions  of  duty.  We  wish  to  have  more  deeply  impressed  upon  our  minds, 
the  truth,  that  it  hath  pleased  God  by  the  foolishness  of  preaching,  to 
save  them  that  believe. 

"It  is  our  practice  to  preach  twice  on  the  Sabbath;  once  in  the  morn 
ing  at  our  station,  and  in  the  evening  at  some  places  in  our  parish.  We 
occasionally  preach  in  other  parishes,  where  our  schools  are  established. 
Two  evenings  in  the  week  we  give  religious  instruction  to  such  as  are 
inclined  to  attend  at  our  houses.  During  the  week  we  converse  more  or 
less  with  the  people,  as  our  other  avocations  will  permit." 

These  extracts  afford  ample  evidence,  that  the  brethren  of  this  mission 
have  been  laborious  in  their  work,  and  much  reason  to  hope  that  their 
zealous  labors  will  not  be  in  vain  in  the  Lord.  When  joined  by  those, 
who  are  now  on  their  passage,  the  mission  will  be  strengthened,  its  schools 
may  be  multiplied,  and  its  operations  extended. 

Supyen,  the  interesting  youth  noticed  at  some  length  in  the  Report  of 
the  last  year,  was,  at  the  time  of  the  latest  dates,  upon  the  coast  of  the 
neighboring  peninsula,  still  suffering  from  persecution,  but  apparently 
steadfast  in  the  faith.  Of  Maleappa  it  may  reasonably  be  hoped,  that 
he  will  not  only  prove  himself  to  have  been  made  a  partaker  of  the  grace 
of  the  Gospel,  but  also  be  a  helper  to  the  mission  and  a  blessing  to  the 
heathen.  Mention  is  made,  in  the  letters  and  journals,  of  one  or  two 
others,  hopefully  turned  from  darkness  unto  light;  and  of  a  prevailing  con 
viction  on  the  minds  of  not  a  few,  that  their  idolatrous  system  is  vanity 
and  a  lie. 

PALESTINE. — As  this  mission  is  intended  for  the  same  great  quarter  of 
the  globe,  in  which  the  two  already  reported  are  established,  it  seemed 
proper  to  introduce  it  in  immediate  connexion  with  them:  though  in 
chronological  order  this  is  not  its  place. 

If  the  countries  of  Southern  Asia  are  highly  interesting  to  Christian 
benevolence,  and  have  strong  claims  upon  Christian  commiseration,  on 
account  of  the  hundreds  of  millions  of  human  beings  immersed  in  the 
deepest  corruption  and  wretchedness;  the  countries  of  Western  Asia, 
though  less  populous,  are  in  other  respects  not  less  interesting;  nor  do 
they  present  less  powerful  claims.  These  were  the  scenes  of  those  great 
transactions  and  events,  which  involved  the  destinies  of  mankind  of  all 
ages  and  all  nations,  for  time  and  eternity;  the  creation  of  the  progeni 
tors  of  our  race — the  beginnings  of  the  sciences  and  arts,  and  of  civil  and 
political  institutions — the  fatal  transgression,  which  "brought  death  into 
the  world  and  all  our  woe" — the  successive  revelations  of  Heaven,  with 
all  their  attestations,  their  light  and  their  blessings — the  incarnation, 
labors  and  agonies  of  the  Son  of  God,  for  the  recovery  of  that  which  was 
lost — and  the  first  exhibition  of  that  mighty  and  gracious  power,  which 
is  to  bow  the  world  to  his  sceptre,  and  fill  the  mansions  of  immortality 
with  his  people.  They  have  since  been  the  scenes  of  direful  changes; 
and  the  monuments  of  all  their  glory  have  long  lain  buried  in  dismal  ruins. 
— But  the  word  of  Jehovah  abideth  forever,  and  that  word  gives  promise 


230  REPORT.  1819. 

of  other  changes  there — changes  to  be  followed  by  a  radiance  of  glory, 
which  shall  enlighten  all  lands. 

In  Palestine,  Syria,  the  Provinces  of  Asia  Minor,  Armenia,  Georgia 
and  Persia,  though  Mohammedan  countries,  there  are  many  thousands  of 
Jews,  and  many  thousands  of  Christians,  at  least  in  name.  But  the 
whole  mingled  population  is  in  a  state  of  deplorable  ignorance  and  degra 
dation, — destitute  of  the  means  of  divine  knowledge,  and  bewildered  with 
rain  imaginations  and  strong  delusions. 

It  is  to  be  hoped,  however,  that  among  the  Christians  there,  of  various 
denominations,  some  might  be  found,  who  are  alive  in  Christ  Jesus;  and 
who,  were  proper  means  employed  for  their  excitement,  improvement,  and 
help,  might  be  roused  from  their  slumbers,  become  active  in  doing  good, 
and  shine  as  lights  in  those  darkened  regions.  It  is  indeed  to  be  hoped, 
that  no  small  part  of  those,  who  bear  the  Christian  name,  would  willingly 
and  gladly  receive  the  Bible  into  their  houses,  and  do  something  towards 
imparting  the  heavenly  treasure,  as  opportunities  should  be  afforded,  to 
the  Jews,  Mohammedans,  and  Pagans;  and,  dispersed  as  they  are,  among 
the  different  nations,  they  might  do  much;  at  least  might  afford  many 
and  important  facilities  and  advantages  for  carrying  into  effect  the  expand 
ing  desires  of  benevolence. 

To  the  Jews  we  and  all  Christians  are  indebted,  under  Divine  Provi 
dence,  for  the  Oracles  of  God,  and  all  the  blessings  by  which  we  are  dis 
tinguished  from  heathen  nations.  Long  have  they  been  an  awful  monu 
ment  to  the  world  of  the  sovereignty  of  God,  under  the  tremendous  curse 
so  terribly  imprecated,  when  the  blood  of  the  Lord  of  life  and  glory  was 
demanded.  But  their  dereliction  is  not  to  be  perpetual.  They  are  be 
loved  for  the  fathers'  sakes;  and  there  shall  come  a  Deliverer  out  of  Zion, 
and  shall  turn  away  ungodliness  from  Jacob. 

It  is  not  to  be  forgotten,  however,  that  it  is  through  our  MERCY, — by 
means  of  the  benevolent  prayers,  and  sacrifices  and  labors  of  Christia  is 
for  their  restoration, — that  they  are  to  obtain  mercy.  And  the  time  seems 
to  have  arrived  for  his  mercy  to  be  displayed,  and  for  these  means  to  be 
employed,  in  a  manner  and  with  an  earnestness,  suitable  to  the  momen 
tous  object.  The  dispositions  recently  manifested  by  the  Jews  exten 
sively,  and  the  success,  which  has  attended  the  late  attempts,  which  have 
been  made  for  gaining  their  attention  to  Christianity,  together  with  the 
more  general  movements  and  aspects  of  the  age, — are  indications  not  to 
be  disregarded. 

By  these,  and  other  kindred  considerations,  your  Committee  have  long 
had  their  mind  and  heart  drawn  towards  Western  Asia,  and  particularly 
towards  the  land  of  ancient  promise,  and  of  present  hope.  The  lights 
afforded  them,  for  surveying  the  field,  have  not  been  neglected;  the  cir 
cumstances  favorable  and  unfavorable  to  the  contemplated  enterprise  have 
been  attentively  considered;  and  ten  months  ago  the  resolution  was  taken 
to  send  a  mission  to  PALESTINE,  as  soon  as  the  requisite  preparation  could 
conveniently  be  made. 

The  Rev.  LEVI  PARSONS  and  the  Rev.  PLINY  FISK  have  been  designa 
ted  for  this  mission.  For  several  months  after  their  designation  they 
were  employed  as  agents  of  the  Board  in  different  parts  of  the  Union; 
and  being  known  as  missionaries,  under  appointment  for  Jerusalem,  they 
excited,  in  the  Christian  community  extensively  a  lively  interest,  which 


1819.  REPORT.  231 

has  been  marked  with  distinguished  liberality.  Lately  they  have  been 
engaged  in  particular  preparations  for  the  mission,  in  the  expectation  of 
embarking  for  the  Levant  before  winter. 

The  design  is,  that  they  shall  go  first  to  Smyrna;  and  there  remain  for 
a  longer  or  shorter  time,  as  circumstances  shall  render  advisable,  for  the 
purpose  of  acquiring  more  perfectly  the  requisite  languages,  and  obtain 
ing  such  information,  of  various  kinds,  as  will  be  of  importance  in  their 
subsequent  course.  Thence,  they  are  to  proceed  to  Palestine,  and  there 
fix  their  station  at  Jerusalem,  if  found  practicable  and  eligible;  if  not,  at 
such  other  place,  within  or  without  the  limits  of  Judea,  as  Providence 
shall  indicate. 

This  whole  Board  will  unite  with  their  Committee,  in  commending 
this  mission  most  fervently  to  the  grace  of  God. 

CHEROKEES. — The  system  of  this  mission; — its  principles,  its  struc 
ture,  its  operations,  and  its  first  results,  were  so  fully  exhibited,  at  our  last 
anniversary,  that  it  cannot  be  necessary  to  enter  largely  into  details  in 
the  present  Report.  During  the  year,  the  system  has  been  advancing 
without  any  noticeable  adversity,  or  abatement  of  success. 

The*  SCHOOL  has  been  gradually  increasing;  and,  at  the  end  of  July, 
consisted  of  eighty  three  children; — fifty  males,  and  thirty  three  females. 
Their  residence  at  the  mission  house  appears  to  have  been  more  constant, 
than  during  the  preceding  year;  their  behavior  not  less  satisfactory,  nor 
their  progress  in  learning  less  encouraging. 

Some  who  were  taken  from  the  school,  and  little  expected  there  again, 
have  been  returned.  Among  these  are  Catharine  Brown,  and  a  boy,  who 
had  been  named  Jeremiah  Evarts. 

In  November,  the  father  of  Catharine,  having  resolved  to  migrate  to 
the  Arkansas,  and  not  to  be  overcome  by  intreaties  and  tears,  firmly  re 
quired  her  to  leave  the  school  for  the  purpose  of  going  with  the  family. 
Though  to  her,  as  she  said  "it  was  more  bitter  than  death,"  yet  she  duti 
fully  obeyed,  and  went  home  to  her  father's  house.  There,  as  the  migra 
tion  was  deferred,  she  remained  about  four  months;  and  then  to  the  great 
joy  of  herself,  and  of  the  mission  family,  her  father  brought  her  back, 
"She  can  assign,"  say  the  brethren,  "no  external  cause  for  this  change 
in  her  father's  mind  concerning  her,  but  ascribes  it  to  the  special  provi 
dence  of  God,  and  in  answer  to  fervent  believing  pr9.yer.  The  time  for 
their  departure  drew  near;  and  she  felt  that  it  would  not  be  for  the  best 
that  she  should  go;  and  that  God  could  change  the  minds  of  her  parents, 
and  make  them  willing  to  leave  her.  That  their  minds  might  be  thus 
changed  was  the  subject  of  her  prayer.  She  had  a  confidence,  particu 
larly  one  evening,  that  the  Lord  would  grant  her  request,  and  she  rose 
from  her  knees,  with  a  degree  of  assurance,  that  she  should  be  sent  back 
to  Brainerd.  Returning  to  the  house,  and  entering  the  room,  where  her 
father  and  mother  were  sitting  by  themselves,  he  addressed  her  to  the  fol 
lowing  effect — "We  know  you  feel  very  bad  about  leaving  the  missiona 
ries,  and  going  with  us  to  the  Arkansas.  We  have  been  talking  about  it; 
we  pity  you;  and  have  concluded  that  you  may  go  back." 

Your  Committee  feel  no  ordinary  pleasure  in  recording  this  signal  in 
stance  of  condescending  mercy,  for  grateful  remembrance,  and  as  an  ear 
nest,  not  to  be  lightly  regarded,  of  good  to  the  beloved  individual,  and  to- 
the  favored  mission. 


232  REPORT.  1819. 

In  their  journal,  July  20th,  the  brethren  say:  "Three  days  ago  the 
father  of  the  fine  full  blooded  boy  whom  we  called  Jeremiah  Evarts,  came 
with  Jeremiah  and  a  younger  son.  It  is  now  about  ten  months  since  he 
took  Jeremiah  home,  on  a  visit,  expecting  to  return  him  in  six  weeks. — 
He  remained  with  us  until  this  morning;  saying  little,  but  attentively 
observing  all  that  was  done.  This  morning  he  told  us,  that  he  wished 
to  leave  his  two  sons  with  us  until  they  were  \vell  learned,  and  should 
only  want  them  to  go  home  on  a  visit  once  a  year:  adding  that  he  had 
been  brought  up  in  ignorance  himself,  and  once  thought  that,  as  he  had 
but  little  time  to  live,  he  would  spend  it  in  idleness,  drinking,  frolicking, 
&c.;  but  finding  this  to  be  a  bad  way,  he  had  left  it,  and  gone  to  work, 
which  he  found  a  much  better  way  to  live.  He  did  not  wish  his  sons 
to  be  brought  up  in  the  way  he  had  been,  and  to  do  as  he  had  done. 
He  was  now  too  old  to  go  to  school  himself;  but  he  thought,  if  his  sons 
were  instructed,  they  might  teach,  and  he  would  be  glad  to  learn  from 
them." 

For  reasons,  which  are  too  obvious  to  need  particular  statement,  since 
the  number  of  children  has  become  so  great,  it  has  been  deemed  advisa 
ble  to  separate  the  females  from  the  males,  and  to  assign  to  them  a  house 
and  school  by  themselves.  Accordingly,  a  temporary  building  has  been 
provided  for  them,  until  a  better  house,  soon  to  be  erected,  shall  be  finished, 
and  a  separate  school  for  them  has  been  established. 

Besides  attending  every  day,  during  the  appointed  hours,  to  their 
studies  in  the  schools,  the  pupils,  male  and  female,  have  constantly  their 
regular  hours  and  allotments  of  labor,  and  of  various  exercises  and  atten 
tions  for  their  general  improvement;  and,  in  all,  they  acquit  themselves 
in  a  manner  highly  satisfactory.  Besides  the  interesting  female,  who  has 
become  so  well  known  to  this  Board  arid  to  the  Christian  community, 
other  individuals  are  distinguished,  and  some  of  them  scarcely  less  than 
Catharine,  for  their  amiable  dispositions,  their  excellent  faculties,  their 
rapid  progress,  and  their  praise-worthy  deportment.  Altogether,  they 
are  a  lovely  band  of  youth  and  children,  whom  the  committee,  with  heart 
felt  interest  and  pleasure,  can  commend  to  the  affections,  the  charities, 
the  prayers,  and  benedictions  of  this  Board  and  of  the  Christian  public,  as 
having  strong  claims  to  kind  and  liberal  patronage,  and  affording  high 
promise  of  usefulness  among  their  own  people. 

At  the  mission-house,  the  preaching  of  the  gospel,  the  administration 
of  Christian  ordinances,  and  various  exercises  and  means  for  religious  in 
struction  and  improvement,  appear  to  have  been  continued  with  life  and 
regularity,  and  with  encouraging  success. 

Upon  the  little  church,  planted  in  that  wilderness,  the  Spirit  of  glory 
and  of  God  still  evidently  rests.  The  record  in  the  journal  of  the  mission, 
for  the  last  day  of  January,  is  an  interesting  memorial. 

''Previous  to  the  administration  of  the  Lord's  supper,  brother  Reece 
offered  for  baptism  an  infant  and  three  other  children,  who  till  lately 
have  lived  with  their  mother,  a  woman  not  now  considered  as  his  wife; 
he  having  parted  from  her  and  left  the  children  with  her,  before  his  con 
version.  When  separations  of  this  kind  take  place,  which  are  frequent 
among  this  people,  the  mother  is  considered  as  having  the  sole  right  to 
the  children;  but,  if  she  please,  she  can  relinquish  this  right  to  their  father. 
Since  this  brother  has  found  the  Savior,  he  has  been  very  desirous  of 


1819.  REPORT.  233 

recovering  his  children,  that  he  may  train  them  up  in  the  way  in  which 
they  should  go.  A  part  of  them  he  obtained,  and  offered  them  in  baptism 
some  time  since.  Two  of  the  three  oldest  offered  in  baptism  at  this  time, 
he  has  lately  obtained  from  their  mother;  and  taken  into  his  family  as 
his  own.  The  oldest  of  them,  the  mother  will  not  yet  consent  to  deliver 
up  entirely;  but  she  has  agreed,  that  this  daughter  shall  be  educated  in 
the  mission-family  and  school.  We  therefore  thought  she  might  be 
admitted  to  baptism. 

"With  these  four  children,  we  also  baptized  Lydia  Lowry,  aged  about 
sixteen.  She  has  been  in  the  school  about  twelve  months,  and  became  «. 
hopeful  subject  of  divine  grace  last  summer.  For  several  months,  she 
has  been  under  particular  instruction  as  a  candidate  for  baptism.  Her 
whole  deportment,  since  the  apparent  change,  has  been  such  as  to  give 
increasing  evidence  that  it  is  real  and  saving.  She  will  now  be  consid 
ered  as  a  candidate  for  full  communion,  in  all  the  ordinances  and  privi 
leges  of  the  church  of  God. 

"A  Cherokee  woman  supposed  to  be  about  70  years  of  age,  (the  same 
mentioned  in  the  Report  of  the  visiting  committee  last  June,  as  a  hopeful 
convert,)  this  day  put  herself  under  our  care,  for  special  instruction,  as  a 
candidate  for  the  ordinance  of  baptism. 

"The  wilderness  and  solitary  place  is  glad  for  them,  and  the  desert 
blossoms  as  the  rose.  Oh  how  precious  are  the  privileges  we  enjoy  here 
in  this  wilderness.  We  would  not  change  our  place  and  our  employment 
for  any  thing,  short  of  that  eternal  rest,  which  God  has  prepared  for  those 
that  love  him. 

"After  baptism  was  administered  to  the  above-mentioned  persons,  the 
professed  followers  of  Christ,  consisting  of  black,  red,  and  white,  surround 
ed  the  table  of  our  common  Lord,  and  found  ua  feast  of  fat  things." 
This  day  completes  twelve  months  since  the  first  new  converts  were  added 
to  this  church;  and  it  now  contains  11  adult  members  and  24  baptized 
children,  beside  the  mission-family.  The  Lord  hath  done  great  things 
for  us,  whereof  we  are  glad." 

In  June,  the  aged  Cherokee  woman  above-mentioned,  was  admitted  to 
full  communion;  and  two  female  members  of  the  school,  one  aged  16  and 
the  other  15,  were  examined  and  received  as  candidates  for  baptism. 

In  a  joint  letter,  the  brethren  say;  "All,  who  have  been  admitted  to 
church  privileges,  give  increasing  evidence  that  their  hopes  are  well 
founded."  They  also  say; 

"There  has  been  so  much  uniformity  in  our  Sabbath  day  congregations 
at  Brainerd,  for  some  time  past,  that  we  have  nothing  new  worthy  of  par 
ticular  notice.  They  still  continue  much  the  same.  While  there  is  rea 
son  to  hope  that  some  are  edified  every  Sabbath,  there  is  reason  to  fear, 
that  others  are  hardening  more  and  more.  They  attend  with  decency; 
hear  as  if  they  assented  to  all  as  true;  and  yet  remain,  like  many  thought 
less  hearers  in  old  congregations,  unawakened  and  unconcerned.  But, 
through  the  power  of  divine  grace,  some  appear  to  hear  in  a  different 
manner.  We  hope  for  several,  who  have  not  yet  publicly  professed 
Christ,  that  they  do  indeed  receive  the  truth  in  love. 

"A  slave,  belonging  to  one  of  the  old  religious  men,  as  their  adherents 
call  them,  says  he  should  be  willing  to  travel  twice  as  far  as  at  present, 
for  the  privilege  of  such  meetings;  though  he  now  has  to  walk  ten  miles 
30 


234  REPORT.  1819. 

over  a  very  rough  and  high  mountain,  and  to  return  the  same  day.  This 
man  and  his  wife,  of  whom  also  we  have  some  hopes,  appear  much  grieved, 
that  their  master  is  about  to  remove  with  them  to  the  Arkansas;  because 
they  think  they  shall  no  more  hear  preaching.  He  was  greatly  rejoiced 
to-day  when  we  told  him  it  was  possible,  that  God  would  send  missionaries 
there." 

Instances  are  mentioned  of  persons  occasionally  coming  from  a  great 
distance  to  hear  preaching  at  the  mission-house.  Among  these  one  may 
be  noted.  In  a  tour  made  by  Mr.  Hoytin  December,  he  preached  at  the 
house  of  Catharine  Brown's  father,  and  an  aged  Cherokee  woman  present 
was  much  affected.  In  May,  this  woman  came  from  a  distance  of  120 
miles,  "to  hear,  as  she  expressed  it,  more  about  the  Savior."  "It  ap 
pears,"  say  the  brethren,  "that  soon  after  her  first  impression,  she  sent 
for  Catharine,  (who  was  then  at  home,)  to  read  and  explain  the  Bible  to 
her,  and  to  pray  with  her;  and  before  Catharine  came  away,  she  told 
her,  she  intended  to  come  hither  for  further  instruction-,  as  soon  as  she 
could." 

Besides  the  exercises  at  the  mission  house,  the  missionaries,  and  par 
ticularly  Mr.  Butrick,  and  Mr.  Chamberlin,  have  made  frequent  and 
distant  excursions  to  different  parts  of  the  nation,  for  the  purpose  of  visit 
ing  and  conversing  with  the  people  in  their  families,  and  preaching  as 
they  should  find  opportunity.  They  appear  to  have  been  always,  and  in 
all  places,  kindly  and  gratefully  received;  and  in  many  instances  have 
been  urgently  intreated  to  repeat  their  visits. 

In  several  places,  also,  a  strong  desire  has  been  expressed  to  have 
stated  preaching,  and  the  missionaries  constantly  with  them.  In  com 
pliance  with  this  desire,  in  the  neighborhood  of  Mr.  Hicks,  about  20  miles 
from  Brainerd,  regular  appointments  have  been,  for  most  of  the  year,  made 
and  fulfilled,  as  often  as  once  in  a  fortnight  or  three  weeks.  The  number 
of  hearers  has  been  very  considerable;  and  their  attention  highly  encour 
aging.  And  in  other  places,  where  appointments  for  preaching  have  been 
made,  appearances  have  been  pleasing  arid  hopeful. 

The  expenses  of  our  Cherokee  establishment  have  not  been  light.  A 
great  part,  indeed,  of  the  expenses  for  buildings  and  for  farming  and  other 
utensils,  has  been  reimbursed  by  the  government.  But  to  supply  provi 
sions  for  the  mission  family,  consisting  of  four  missionaries  with  their  wives 
and  children,  and  eighty  children  of  the  natives,  besides  hired  laborers, 
cannot  cost  little;  and  the  contingencies  of  such  an  establishment  must 
unavoidably  be  considerable. 

The  produce  of  the  farm  the  last  year,  owing  partly  to  the  dryness  of 
the  season,  and  partly  to  the  depredations  of  unruly  and  wild  animals, 
was  less  than  had  been  anticipated,  and  was  consumed  in  a  few  months. 
And,  owing  to  various  causes,  some  of  them  transient,  and  others  perma 
nent,  great  difficulties  and  some  heavy  disappointments  have  been  ex 
perienced,  in  obtaining  supplies  from  the  white  settlements  in  Tennes 
see,  the  nearest  in  which  contracts  for  supplies  have  been  made,  being 
60  or  80  miles  distant  from  Brainerd.  A  single  disappointment  the 
last  winter,  in  the  failure  of  a  contract  for  corn,  occasioned  partly  by  the 
state  of  the  river,  was  a  detriment  to  the  mission  of  several  hundred  dol 
lars. 

Your  Committee  have  from  the  first  regarded  the  cultivation  of  the 


1819.  REPORT.  235 

farm,  as  an  object  of  high  importance.  It  is  important  for  the  purpose 
of  exercising  the  native  boys  of  the  institution  in  agricultural  labors;  and 
of  shewing  to  them  and  to  the  nation  a  sample  of  a  farm  under  good  hus 
bandry,  and  yielding  its  products  in  variety  and  plenty.  Arid  it  is  impor 
tant  for  the  purpose  of  supplying,  in  the  surest  and  cheapest  manner,  the 
principal  provisions  for  the  maintenance  of  the  establishment.  This  last 
consideration  has  been  urged  upon  our  attention  by  the  facts  and  circum 
stances  just  referred  to. 

It  became,  therefore,  an  object  of  earnest  desire  to  obtain  a  man  of 
suitable  qualifications,  for  the  skilful  and  vigorous  management  of  a  farm, 
intended  to  be  enlarged  to  an  ample  extent.  And  it  would  not  fail  to  be 
regarded  as  a  particular  favor  in  Providence,  that  just  as  the  exigence 
came  to  be  deeply  felt,  the  desire  was  answered. 

About  four  months  ago,  Mr.  Abijah  Conger  of  Rockaway,  N.  J.  made 
a  sacred  offer  of  himself  for  the  service.  In  his  letter,  making  the  offer, 
he  says,  "My  wife  is  anativ.e  of  Bridgehampton,  Long  Island.  We  were 
married  in  the  year  1803;  and  begun  to  keep  house  in  the  spring  of  1804 
with  nothing  but  our  hands.  God  has  prospered  us  greatly  in  the  good 
things  of  this  world;  and  I  hope  we  both  have  a  treasure  laid  up  in 
heaven  for  us.  I  have  a  large  property  here:  and  had  any  body  told  me, 
two  years  ago,  that  I  would  leave  it,  and  go  into  the  wilderness,  I  should 
have  thought  them  beside  themselves;  as  some  of  my  neighbors  and 
friends  now  do  me.  But  while  reading  last  winter  of  the  difficulty  the 
establishment  had  to  get  mechanics  &.C.,  the  thought  struck  me,  that  I 
ought  to  go  to  their  assistance.  I  tried  every  way  to  get  it  out  of  my 
mind,  but  to  no  purpose,  till  my  sleep  left  me.  I  then  made  my  wife 
acquainted  with  it;  and  she  said,  'Go  and  I  will  go  with  you.' — I  have 
concluded  to  offer  myself  to  the  Board,  to  go  to  Brainerd,  and  act  in  the 
sphere,  which  the  Board  shall  think  me  most  capable  to  fill, — provided  it 
is  for  the  furtherance  of  the  Redeemer's  Kingdom.  My  business  for 
fifteen  years  back  has  been  to  manage  a  large  family,  consisting  of  fifteen 
to  more  than  twenty  persons, — most  of  them  grown  persons; — besides 
several  families  living  on  my  land,  that  came  directly  under  my  care. — 
My  own  family  consists  of  seven  persons,  myself  and  wife,  and  five  chil 
dren,  two  boys  and  three  girls;  all  remarkably  healthy,  and  well  educated 
according  to  their  age,  the  oldest  fourteen,  the  youngest  two  years  old, — 
all  trained  to  industry  when  out  of  school." 

Mr.  Conger  is  himself  about  36  years  old, — a  Christian  of  good  report; 
by  trade  a  carpenter,  but  accustomed  to  turn  his  hand  to  various  kindsof 
business,  as  carpentry,  cabinet-making,  coopering,  blacksmithing,  and 
farming;  all  which  he  has  had  upon  a  large  scale  under  his  direction. 
"He  has  been,"  says  his  minister,  the  Rev.  Mr.  King,  "for  ten  years  past 
one  of  the  most  industrious,  and  persevering,  men  in  the  business  of  the 
world,  that  I  ever  knew."  For  six  years  in  his  youth,  he  was  a  school 
master;  and  for  the  two  last  years  has  been  a  principal  teacher  in  a  Sab 
bath  school. 

When  the  determination  of  Mr.  Conger  came  to  be  known,  others  of 
kindred  spirit  connected  with  him  in  business,  and  some  of  them  by 
family  alliance,  and  whose  minds  had  for  some  time  before  been  employed 
on  the  subject,  came  to  a  similar  resolution.  Messrs.  John  Vail,  a  farmer, 
— John  Talmage  a  blacksmith,  and  John  Mott,  a  carpenter,  but  all  of 


236  REPORT.  1819. 

them  more  or  less,  like  Mr.  Conger,  accustomed  to  different  kinds  of 
business, — offered  themselves,  with  very  satisfactory  recommendations; 
and  were  accordingly  accepted  for  the  service.  Mr.  Vail  has  a  family 
of  five  children;  Mr.  Talmage  and  Mr.  Mott  are  young  men  recently 
married. 

These  four  devoted  men,  have  given  themselves  to  the  service,  on  the 
same  principle  with  the  missionaries  and  assistants  now  at  the  stations, — 
as  an  engagement  for  life;  consecrating  themselves,  their  faculties,  and 
their  earnings,  to  the  sacred  and  benevolent  object  of  christianizing  and 
civilizing  the  Aborigines;  and  expecting  no  earthly  compensation  but  a 
comfortable  maintenance.  Their  children,  when  they  come  of  age,  are 
of  course  to  be  held  as  free  in  regard  to  any  engagement  for  the  service, 
as  any  other  persons. 

Preparations  have  been  made  with  all  convenient  despatch;  and  the 
company,  well  supplied  with  various  mechanical  tools,  and  such  house 
hold  articles  as  are  suitable  to  take  with  them, — started  from  Rocka- 
way,  as  it  is  supposed,  on  Monday  of  the  last  week,*  travelling  with 
wagons,  and  expecting  to  reach  JBrainerd  about  the  first  of  November. 

The  hope  is  entertained,  and  with  a  degree  of  confidence,  that  in  a 
short  time,  by  the  exercise  of  husbandry,  and  the  various  mechanical 
trades,  in  which  they  are  skilled,  they  will  supply  the  establishment  with 
the  principal  provisions,  requisite  for  its  support,  and  thus  save  this  Board 
a  heavy  expense. 

The  establishment  at  Brainerd  is  regarded  by  your  Committee  as  a 
Primary  Institution,  to  serve  as  a  centre  of  operations  for  evangelizing 
and  civilizing  the  Cherokee  nation; — to  be  enlarged  and  advanced,  as 
means  shall  be  afforded,  and  as  shall  be  found  to  be  advisable;  and  to 
have  branches  connected  with  it,  in  the  form  of  Local  Schools,  in  different 
parts  of  the  Cherokee  country.  The  local  schools,  being  established  in 
places  of  densest  population,  may  be  attended  by  children  living  at  home; 
and  a  farm,  of  larger  or  smaller  extent,  may  yield  to  it  the  means  of 
support. 

For  one  school  of  this  kind,  a  place  has  been  selected,  and  prepara 
tions  are  now  in  forwardness.  It  will  be  50  or  60  miles  southeasterly 
from  Brainerd,  and  under  the  immediate  care  of  Mr.  Hall,  one  of  the 
first  assistants  of  the  mission. 

This  school  is  established  at  the  earnest  desire  and  solicitation  of  the 
natives  residing  in  that  neighborhood.  Similar  solicitations  have  been 
made  for  schools,  in  other  places.  And  it  is  a  fact  of  special  importance, 
that  a  disposition  favorable  to  the  general  design,  and  even  an  ardent  de 
sire  for  schools,  is  prevailing  throughout  the  nation.  Some  evidence  of 
this  fact  will  be  interesting  to  the  Board. 

About  the  first  of  November,  ten  months  ago,  a  council  of  the  nation 
was  held,  at  which  Mr.  Hoyt  was  present.  He  was  received  with  marked 
kindness  and  attention.  On  the  evening  before  the  council  was  opened, 
he  had  a  free  and  lengthened  conversation  with  the  aged  king  and  the 
chiefs,  and  found  them  in  a  most  pleasant  disposition. 

"The  king   and  chiefs,"   he  says,  "expressed  great  satisfaction  in  the 

*  About  the  time  they  were  to  start  Mr.  VaiPs  family  was  heavily  visited  with  sickness, 
which  detained  them  until  the  27th  of  the  month. 


1819.  REPORT.  237 

school,  and  many  thanks  to  those  who  are  engaged  for  the  instruction  of 
their  children  and  people.  The  king  observed,  'It  was  evidence  of  great 
love  to  be  willing  to  teach  and  feed  so  many  children  without  pay:  and 
he  did  not  doubt  it  would  be  greatly  to  the  benefit  of  the  nation;  for 
though  bad  men  could  do  more  mischief  when  learned,  the  good  would 
be  much  more  useful;  and  he  knew  we  taught  the  children  to  be  good, 
and  hoped  many  of  them  would  follow  our  instructions.'  " 

The  next  day,  when  the  council  was  in  session,  Mr.  Hoyt  was  admit 
ted  to  an  audience,  and  made  a  talk  to  them;  stating  the  intentions  and 
objects  of  the  mission,  and  expressing  the  feelings  and  desires  of  the 
missionaries,  and  of  their  patrons  and  friends. 

"I  was  heard,"  he  says,  "with  the  most  fixed  attention;  and  have  rea 
son  to  believe,  from  the  starting  tear  on  every  side,  that  the  warm  feelings 
of  brother  Hicks  imparted  an  affecting  pathos  to  the  interpretation,  which 
was  given  sentence  by  sentence  as  1  spoke.  I  continued  my  discourse 
much  longer  than  was  at  first  intended;  being  encouraged  to  do  so  from 
my  own  feelings,  and  the  appearance  of  the  audience. 

"When  I  had  taken  my  seat,  a  few  words  passed  between  the  king  and 
his  chiefs,  in  their  own  language;  after  which  the  king  said,  they  thanked 
me  for  the  good  talk  I  had  given  them,  and  were  all  well  pleased  with 
the  whole  of  it.  They  knew  as  he  had  told  me  the  evening  before,  that 
nothing  but  a  desire  to  do  good,  could  induce  us  to  instruct  and  feed  so 
many  children  without  pay.  It  was  further  observed,  that  they  must  now 
attend  to  the  business  of  great  national  importance;  and  as  soon  as  that 
was  finished,  they  would  attend  to  what  I  had  said  about  other  schools, 
and  communicate  freely  according  to  my  requests.  1  then  observed, 
that  I  must  leave  them  and  return  to  the  school;  but,  if  agreeable,  I 
would  first  take  the  king  by  the  hand,  in  token  of  our  mutual  love  and 
friendship,  and  of  the  mutual  love  and  friendship  that  subsisted  between 
his  people  and  all  concerned  in  the  mission.  The  king  most  cordially 
gave  his  hand,  as  a  token  and  seal  of  this,  while  I  implored  the  divine 
blessing  upon  him  and  his  people.  This  being  done,  the  chiefs  all  rose 
from  their  seats,  came  up  to  me,  one  by  one,  and  each  gave  his  hand,  in 
a  most  affectionate  manner.  This  closing  scene  was  to  me  truly  impres 
sive,  and  I  think  will  not  be  forgotten. 

"Brother  Hicks  left  the  council,  and  accompanied  me  a  short  distance 
on  the  way.  While  by  ourselves,  he  assured  me,  there  was  no  dissimula 
tion  in  what  I  had  seen:  that  all  were  highly  pleased,  and  he  thought 
much  good  would  result  from  the  interview." 

On  the  first  of  January,  the  king  and  one  of  the  principal  chiefs  from 
the  southern  part  of  the  nation,  visited  the  school  at  Brainerd. 

"On  winter  evenings,"  say  the  brethren,  "our  children  are  collected 
in  one  room,  where  they  are  exercised  in  spelling,  answering  questions, 
singing,  &c.  When  the  old  king  saw  the  children  assembled  this  even 
ing,  he  was  greatly  delighted,  and  shook  hands  with  them  most  affec 
tionately.  He  appeared  much  pleased  during  the  first  exercises,  (though 
he  does  not  understand  English;)  but  when  they  began  the  singing,  he 
could  not  refrain  from  tears;  though  evidently  endeavoring  to  repress  his 
feelings  as  if  ashamed  to  weep.  The  furrows  of  his  war-worn  cheeks 
were  plentifully  watered,  and  his  handkerchief  was  almost  constantly 
applied  to  dry  them.  He  spoke  to  the  children  affectionately,  as  did  also 
the  accompanying  chief. 


238  REPORT.  1819. 

"2nd.  The  king  and  chief,  visited  the  school.  After  the  children 
had  passed  through  their  various  exercises,  the  king  addressed  them,  in 
a  grave,  affectionate  manner.  The  chief  then  arose,  and  spoke,  as  it 
appeared  to  us,  in  a  most  eloquent  and  persuasive  manner  for  some  time. 
By  his  gestures  we  supposed  he  was  talking  to  the  children  about  getting 
an  education — then  dispersing  through  the  nation — doing  great  good 
through  life,  and  then  meeting  together  above,  to  receive  a  reward.  The 
children  listened  with  great  attention,  and  most  of  them  were  considera 
bly  affected.  From  them  we  afterwards  learned  that  our  conjectures, 
respecting  the  subjects  of  the  discourse,  were  correct,  that  the  chief  told 
them  the  missionaries  must  be  good  men,  or  they  would  not  be  willing  to 
do  so  much  for  them  without  pay:  that  we  knew  more  than  the  Indians 
did;  and  they  must  listen  to  our  instructions,  keep  steady  at  the  school, 
and  be  obedient,  until  they  had  learned  all  that  we  wished  them  to  learn; 
and  that,  when  they  went  away  from  the  school,  they  must  remember  and 
follow  the  good  way  they  had  learned  here; — if  they  did  so,  they  would 
do  much  good  to  their  people  while  they  lived,  and  when  they  died  they 
would  go  above  and  be  happy. 

"After  the  chief  had  concluded,  the  king  again  addressed  the  chil 
dren  a  few  minutes,  and  requested  that  they  might  all  come  round  and 
shake  hands  with  him, — which  they  did.  Both  the  king  and  chief  ex 
pressed  their  warmest  thanks  for  the  good  we  were  doing  to  their  nation; 
said  they  should  think  much  of  us  and  of  the  school;  and  would  tell 
their  people  every  where,  that  it  was  very  good  to  send  their  children 
here,  where  they  could 'learn  good  things,  &c. 

"In  February,  a  letter  was  sent  to  the  missionaries,  said  to  have  been 
written,  at  the  request  and  in  behalf  of  all  the  people  of  the  district  called 
Battle  Creek,  down  the  Tennessee,  about  forty  miles  from  Brainerd, — 
earnestly  entreating,  that  a  schoolmaster  might  come  and  teach  their 
children." 

This  Board  have  been  apprised,  that  it  was  the  intention  of  the  United 
States  government,  to  procure  an  extended  exchange  of  lands,  and  to 
remove  the  Cherokees  and  other  Indian  nations  and  tribes,  residing  on 
this  side  the  Mississippi,  over  into  the  wilderness  of  the  Arkansas,  and 
of  the  Missouri.  The  Cherokees,  being  urgently  pressed  with  proposals, 
in  pursuance  of  this  intention,  were  in  great  consternation  and  distress; 
and  a  delegation  of  twelve  of  their  principal  men,  with  the  well  known 
and  excellent  chief,  Charles  R.  Hicks,  at  the  head,  were  appointed  by 
the  council  of  the  nation,  to  go  to  the  city  of  Washington  on  the  subject. 
Communications,  relating  to  the  business,  were  made  to  your  Commit 
tee;  and  a  desire  was  signified,  that  one  of  the  Committee  or  an  agent 
of  the  Board,  might  be  present  with  the  delegation.  The  Committee 
could  not  but  feel,  that  it  was  a  crisis  of  great  moment;  and  the  Cor 
responding  Secretary  was  deputed  to  Washington.  Accordingly,  about 
the  middle  of  February,  he  met  the  Cherokee  delegation  there. 

A  principal  argument,  employed  on  the  part  of  the  Cherokees,  was; — 
That  their  removal  from  their  country,  where  they  had  begun  to  culti 
vate  the  land,  and  made  considerable  advances  in  civilizing  arts;  and 
where  a  system  of  instruction  for  their  general  improvement  had  com 
menced  with  the  fairest  prospects  of  success; — into  a  boundless  wilder 
ness,  where  every  thing  would  invite  and  impel  them  to  revert  to  the 


1819.  REPORT.  239 

hunting,  and  wandering,  and  savage  life, — would  frustrate  the  desires  of 
the  better  part  of  the  nation,  and  destroy  the  hopes  of  their  benevolent 
friends;  and,  in  effect,  doom  them  to  extermination;  that  the  desire 
for  civilization  had  become  prevalent  among  them,  and  their  capability 
of  improvement,  and  of  being  elevated  to  the  rank  and  to  the  enjoyments 
of  civilized  people,  had  been  decisively  evinced  by  the  success,  which 
had  attended  the  attempts  for  their  instruction.  The  argument  appears 
to  have  had  weight  with  the  government;  and  the  delegation,  instead  of 
finding  themselves  obliged,  as  their  fears  had  led  them  to  anticipate,  to 
sign  a  virtual  surrender  of  their  country,  had  the  high  satisfaction  to  put 
their  signatures  to  a  treaty  of  a  very  different  kind. 

This  treaty,  after  a  cession  of  lands  by  the  Cherokees,  in  considera 
tion  of  a  portion  of  the  nation  having  migrated  to  the  Arkansas,  and  had 
lands  assigned  to  them  there,  secures  to  them  the  remainder  of  their 
country  in  perpetuity.  And  of  the  ceded  lands,  an  appropriation  is  made 
of  about  a  hundred  thousand  acres,  for  a  perpetual  school  fund,  to  be 
applied,  under  the  direction  of  the  President  of  the  United  States,  to  the 
instruction  of  the  Cherokees  on  this  side  of  the  Mississippi. 

This,  the  Committee  are  persuaded,  will  be  regarded  by  the  Board, 
and  by  all,  who  wish  well  to  the  American  aborigines,  as  a  signally  aus 
picious  event.  It  is  auspicious,  as  it  shows  on  the  part  of  the  govern 
ment,  not  only  a  favorable  disposition  towards  the  Indians,  but  also  a 
conviction  that  they  can  be,  and  must  be,  civilized;  arid  a  settled  and 
generous  purpose  to  patronize  and  aid  the  benevolent  work.  It  is  auspi 
cious,  as  it  provides  funds  which  eventually  will  not  be  small,  for  pro 
moting  the  design.  And  it  is  auspicious  in  the  influence,  which  it  has, 
and  which  it  will  have,  upon  the  Cherokees  and  other  Indian  nations, 
and  upon  the  American  community.  It  marks,  indeed,  a  new  and  pro 
pitious  era. 

The  Cherokee  delegates  and  the  nation,  were  filled  with  joy  and  grat 
itude.  In  the  journal  of  the  mission,  April  12th,  the  brethren  record: 

"This  day,  brother  Hicks,  having  a  few  days  since  returned  from  the 
seat  of  government,  made  us  a  visit.  This  brother,  as  might  be  expect 
ed,  is  much  engaged  for  the  instruction  of  his  people.  While  an  entire 
exchange  of  country  was  thought  of,  as  a  measure  they  might  be  pressed 
to  adopt,  his  spirit  was  often  greatly  borne  down  with  discouragement;  but 
since  they  have  succeeded  in  having  part  of  their  country  guaranteed  to 
them  anew,  and  so  many  Christian  people  are  engaged  for  their  instruc 
tion,  that  hope,  which  was  almost  expiring,  is  raised  to  confident  expec 
tation.  His  heart  is  overflowing  with  joy,  gratitude,  and  praise  to  God, 
whom  he  is  ever  ready  to  acknowledge  as  the  Giver  of  every  good  and 
perfect  gift.  r-ffc^ 

"May  llth.  By  appointment  of  the  brethren,  father  Hoyt  attended 
the  national  talk  and  council.  This  talk  was  for  the  purpose  of  making 
known  to  the  people  what  the  delegates  had  done  at  Washington,  &/c. 
The  success  of  this  delegation  has  raised  the  hopes  of  the  nation.  They 
feel,  more  than  ever,  anxious  to  make  improvement;  and  are  convinced 
that  the  instruction  of  their  children  is  very  important  for  this  end.  The 
missionary  is  received  and  treated  as  an  old  tried  friend. 

"Dr.  Worcester's  parting  address  to  the  delegates,  when  at  Washing 
ton,  was  read  in  open  council,  and  interpreted  as  read.  All  appeared 


340  REPORT.  1819. 

much  pleased  with  the  address.  As  the  way  of  their  improvement  was 
pointed  out,  and  the  blessings  that  would  follow  described,  all  seemed  to 
say,  "We  will  follow  this  advice,  and  shall  experience  this  good." — They 
want  mechanics  and  schoolmasters,  and  wish  to  have  them  come  from 
one  of  the  two  societies,  which  have  already  begun  to  help  them:  as 
they  say,  they  are  acquainted  with  them,  and  can  trust  the  men  whom 
they  will  send." 

In*  this  connection,  another  circumstance  recorded  in  the  Journal, 
May  27th,,  will  be  regarded  with  interest: — 

"The  President,  accompanied  by  general  Gaines  and  lady,  stopped  to 
visit  the  school.  We  had  expected  the  President  would  call,  as  he  passed, 
but  supposed  we  should  hear  of  his  approach,  in  time  to  make  a  little 
preparation,  and  to  meet  and  escort  him  in;  but  so  silent  was  his  approach, 
that  we  had  no  information  that  he  had  left  Georgia,  till  he  was  announced 
as  at  the  door.  In  thus  taking  us  by  surprise,  he  had  an  opportunity  of 
seeing  us  in  our  every  day  dress,  and  observing  how  the  concerns  of  the 
family  and  school  were  managed,  when  we  were  alone;  and  perhaps  it  was 
best  on  the  whole,  that  he  should  have  this  view  of  us.  If  we  had  en 
deavored  to  appear  a  little  better  than  usual,  we  might  only  have  made  it 
worse. 

"He  looked  at  the  buildings  and  farms,  visited  the  school,  and  asked 
questions  in  the  most  unaffected  and  familiar  manner;  and  was  pleased 
to  express  his  approbation  of  the  plan  of  instruction,  particularly  as  the 
children  were  taken  into  the  family,  taught  to  work,  &c.  He  thought 
this  the  best,  and  perhaps  the  only  way,  to  civilize  and  christianize  the 
Indians;  and  assured  us  he  was  well  pleased  with  the  conduct  and  im 
provement  of  the  children. 

"We  had  just  put  up,  and  were  about  finishing,  a  log  cabin  for  the 
suse  of  the  girls.  He  said  that  such  buildings  were  not  good  enough,  and 
advised  that  we  put  another  kind  of  building  in  place  of  this; — that  we 
make  it  a  good  two  story  house,  with  brick  or  stone  chimneys,  glass 
windows,  &c.,  arid  that  it  be  done  at  the  public  expense.  He  also 
observed,  that  after  this  was  done,  it  might,  perhaps,  be  thought  best  to 
build  another  of  the  same  description  for  the  boys,  but  we  could  do  this 
•first.  Giving  us  a  letter  directed  to  the  Agent,  he  observed,  'I  have 
written  to  him  to  pay  the  balance  of  your  account,  for  what  you  have 
^expended  on  these  buildings,  and  also  to  defray  the  expense  of  the  house, 
you  are  now  about  to  build.  Make  a  good  house,  having  due  regard  to 
economy.' " 

Your  Committee  have  no  ordinary  satisfaction  in  recording  this  visit, 
in  which  the  dignified  condescension,  the  generous  philanthropy  and 
-the  paternal  character  of  the  President  of  the  United  States,  appear  in 
so  amiable  and  interesting  a  light.  It  has  excited,  and  will  excite,  most 
grateful  feelings,  not  only  in  this  Board,  but  in  this  Christian  community 
extensively. 

Hitherto  the  Lord  has  continued  to  smile  on  this  favored  mission.  Its 
prosperity  has  been  great:  and  its  prospects  are  cheering.  Every 
tencouragement  is  afforded  to  prosecute  the  design,  with  humble  and 
grateful  reliance  on  that  Almighty  aid,  which  has  been  so  graciously 
granted. 


1819.  REPORT.  241 

CHOCTAWS. — A  year  ago  this  mission  was  just  commencing.  As 
then  reported,  the  Rev.  Mr.  Kingsbury  and  Mr.  Williams  and  wife, 
having  taken  an  affecting  leave  of  Brainerd,  had  recently  arrived  in  the 
Choctaw  nation,  and  selected  the  site  for  their  station;  and  Mr.  Peter 
Kanouse,  and  Messrs.  John  G.  Kanouse  and  Moses  Jewell  with  their 
wives,  from  New  Jersey  and  New  York,  were  on  their  way  to  join  the 
mission. 

"About  the  loth  of  August,"  says  Mr.  Kingsbury,  "we  felled  the  first 
tree  on  the  ground,  which  we  considered  as  henceforth  consecrated  to 
the  cause  of  Zion's  King;  and  from  which  we  hope  to  diffuse  among  this 
wretched  people  the  benign  influences  of  civilization  and  Christianity. 
The  place  was  entirely  new,  and  covered  with  lofty  trees;  but  the  ancient 
mounds,  which  here  and  there  appeared,  showed,  that  it  had  been  once 
the  habitation  of  men." 

This  consecrated  spot  has  since  been  named  Elliot,  in  affectionate 
memorial  of  the  venerable  "Apostle  of  the  American  Indians" 

In  three  or  four  days  after  the  felling  of  the  first  tree,  their  first  house  of 
logs  was  raised. 

"The  weather,"  say  the  brethren,  "was  excessively  hot  and  our  prospects 
discouraging.  The  timber  for  the  buildings  nece&sary  for  the  establish 
ment  was  still  growing;  and  the  forest  was  waving  over  the  ground,  which 
we  wished  to  cultivate.  The  men,  whom  we  expected  to  undertake  the 
buildings,  dsclined  the  contract.  The  season  was  so  far  advanced,  that 
we  had  little  hope  of  immediate  assistance  from  the  north;  and  we  had  a 
poor  prospect  of  help  from  this  country.  We  had  also  been  informed, 
that  we  could  obtain  supplies  by  water  at  any  season  cf  the  year;  but 
now  found  there  would  be  no  opportunity  before  winter.  We  were  almost 
destitute  of  mechanical  tools  and  implements  of  husbandry,  and  of  many 
other  important  articles;  having  brought  only  a  few  of  the  most  neces 
sary  ones  in  our  wagon  through  the  wilderness.  But  in  this  hour  of  diffi 
culty,  we  remembered  that  the  Lord  had  been  our  helper;  and  our  hope 
was  not  in  vain  that  He  would  again  bring  us  relief." 

On  the  day  after  the  brethren,  in  the  midst  of  their  difficulties  and 
discouragements,  had  raised  the  log  of  their  first  little  cottage,  they  were 
cheered  with  a  report,  that  three  or  four  men  were  at  Natchez,  coming 
to  their  assistance;  and  in  ten  days  afterwards,  on  the  29th  of  Aug.  the 
assistants  from  New  Jersey  and  New  York  arrived  at  the  station  "in 
safety,  though  much  worn  down  by  fatigue." 

"Thus"  say  the  brethren,  "were  our  hearts  made  glad  in  a  way  we 
hardly  presumed  to  hope  for.  The  kind  providence  of  God,  in  preserv 
ing  the  lives  of  our  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  and  granting  them  so  great 
a  degree  of  health,  during  so  long  and  fatiguing  a  journey,  through  a 
burning  and  sickly  clime,  called  forth  our  warmest  gratitude." 

The  arrival  of  these  assistants,  and  particularly  of  the  females,  was 
subsequently  seen  to  be  a  reason  for  more  especial  gratitude,  than  was  at 
first  apprehended;  as  in  about  a  week  afterwards,  Mrs.  Williams,  before 
the  only  female  at  the  station,  was  seized  with  a  severe  fever,  by  which 
she  was  brought  near  to  death. 

Mr.  Peter  Kanouse,  whose  health   for  some  time  before  leaving  New 
Jersey  had  been  feeble,  and  who  suffered   much  in  the  passage  by  water 
to  New  Orleans,  soon  after  reaching  the  station  found  his  health  declin- 
31 


342  REPORT.  1819. 

ing;  and,  becoming  in  a  short  time  persuaded,  that  he  should  not  be 
able  to  render  assistance  in  the  arduous  labors  of  the  mission,  on  the 
5th  of  October,  with  many  painful  regrets,  left  Elliot  and  returned  to  his 
family. 

In  November,  Miss  Sarah  B.  Varnum,  and  Miss  Judith  Chase,  under 
the  particular  care  of  your  Committee,  and  with  a  respectable  company 
of  passengers,  were  embarked  at  Salem,  for  the  purpose  of  joining  the 
mission.  They  were  met  at  New  Orleans  by  Mr.  Kingsbury,  whose 
marriage  to  Miss  Varnum  was  there  solemnized;  and  by  whom  they  were 
conducted  thence  to  the  station,  where  they  arrived  on  the  first  of  Febru 
ary.  About  a  fortnight  before,  Mr.  Aries  V.  Williams,  an  approved 
brother  of  him  who  went  with  Mr.  Kingsbury  from  Brainerd,  arrived 
there  as  an  assistant. 

Thus  increased  and  strengthened,  the  mission  was  filled  with  grateful 

joy- 

"We  have  our  trials,"  says  Mr.  Kingsbury,  in  a  letter  at  the  time,  "but 
they  seem  only  such  as  are  calculated  to  keep  us  humble,  and  teach  us 
our  dependence.  And  we  have  so  many  mercies,  that  we  think  no  people 
are  so  highly  favored  as  ourselves." 

Among  the  trials  alluded  to,  were  sickness  with  which,  in  greater  or 
less  degrees,  several  members  of  the  mission  family  of  both  sexes  had 
been  visited;  various  disappointments  and  difficulties  in  regard  to  procur 
ing  provisions  and  necessary  help;  and  many  inconveniences,  privations, 
and  hardships,  unavoidable  in  the  commencement  of  such  an  establish 
ment  so  far  in  the  wilderness. 

Meanwhile,  however,  the  work  was  advancing.  And  in  a  letter  bear 
ing  date  April  12,  only  about  eight  months  from  the  felling  of  the  first 
tree,  the  brethren  say; 

"So  far  as  health  and  strength  would  permit,  we  have  lost  no  time 
in  getting  forward  the  necessary  preparations  for  our  school;  and  we 
have  much  occasion  for  thankfulness,  that  we  have  been  able  to  accom 
plish  so  much. 

"We  have  erected  seven  log  dwelling  houses;  two  22  feet  by  20  each; 
two  22  by  18;  one  20  by  16;  one  18  by  15;  and  one  16  by  12.  For  five 
of  these,  the  logs  are  hewed  on  two  sides;  and  the  roofs  project  in  back 
and  front  about  eight  feet,  and  are  supported  by  posts  in  the  form  of  piaz 
zas.  These  are  very  useful  in  this  climate.  We  have  erected,  besides, 
a  mill  house  36  feet  by  30;  a  stable,  20  by  14;  a  store  house  20  by  16; 
and  two  other  out  buildings.  All  these  buildings  except  one,  are  com 
pleted.  The  mill  is  on  a  simple  construction,  is  turned  by  one  or  two 
horses,  and  grinds  well.  We  have  a  part  of  our  timber  hewed  for  the 
school  house,  dining  room,  and  kitchen:  and  have  had  sawed,  by  hand, 
about  9,000  feet  of  cypress  and  poplar  boards,  for  floors,  doors,  &/c. 

"On  the  plahtation,  we  have  cleared,  and  fitted  for  the  plough,  about 
35  acres  of  good  land,  which  is  inclosed  with  a  substantial  fence.  A 
part  of  this  was  covered  with  heavy  timber;  and  the  chopping,  burning 
and  rolling  of  Jogs,  has  cost  us  much  hard  labor.  In  this  we  have  been 
much  assisted  by  Choctaws,  whom  we  have  hired.  Several  of  them  have 
worked  faithfully.  We  have  also  inclosed  a  garden,  and  yards  for  cattle; 
and  have  set  out  a  few  peach,  apply,  quince,  and  plumb  trees.  Consider 
able  labor  has  been  spent,  also,  in  cutting  roads  in  different  directions; 


1819.  REPORT.  243 

and  in  constructing  several  small  bridges,  which  were  found  necessary  in 
order  to  transport  articles  with  a  wagon.  And  it  may  be  noticed,  that 
we  have  had  many  of  our  tools,  and  much  of  our  wooden  furniture,  to 
make. 

"We  wish  we  could  say,  that  as  much  has  been  done  to  enlighten  and 
save  the  souls  of  these  perishing  people,  as  to  make  preparations  for  the 
instruction  of  their  children.  But  alas!  as  yet  we  have  been  able  to 
accomplish  but  little  towards  this  most  important  object. — It  is  impossible 
for  us  to  express  our  feelings  on  this  subject.  The  expectation  of  this 
people  has  been,  that  all  our  efforts  would  be  directed  towards  the  com 
mencement  of  a  school;  and  indeed  it  could  not  be  supposed,  that  they 
would  feel  a  particular  desire  for  gospel  instruction.  But  with  respect 
to  a  school,  they  have  ever  manifested  a  great  anxiety;  and  their  expecta 
tions  have  greatly  exceeded  our  ability  to  meet  them. 

"We  have  preaching,  however,  every  Sabbath  at  our  house,  at  which 
a  number  of  half-breeds,  and  white  people,  and  negroes  attend;  and 
occasionally  several  of  the  natives.  Two  or  three  appear  seriously  dis 
posed." 

On  the  last  Sabbath  in  March,  after  solemn  preparation,  by  fasting  and 
prayer,  a  church  was  organized  at  the  mission  house;  and  the  dying  love 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  was  commemorated,  in  the  Holy  Supper. 

"We  trust,  say  the  brethren,  the  Lord  was  with  us.  A  number  of  our 
neighbors  came  at  an  early  hour  to  witness  the  transactions. — The  sea 
son  was  interesting.  We  were  in  the  midst  of  a  wilderness,  which  had 
never,  till  lately,  resounded  with  the  accents  of  Gospel  mercy.  The 
emblems  of  the  great  sacrifice  for  sinners  had  never  before  been  exhib 
ited  here."  "At  present  our  little  church  consists  of  only  the  ten  mis 
sionary  brethren  and  sisters;  yet  by  faith  we  look  forward  to  the  time, 
when  some  of  these  dear  people  will  be  gathered  into  the  fold." 

As  yet  they  were  not  prepared  to  commence  the  school.  A  school 
house,  and  some  other  buildings,  were  wanted;  and  their  hands  were  not 
sufficient  for  the  erection  of  them.  The  Choctaw  people,  however,  not 
aware  of  the  preparations,  which  were  requisite,  or  of  the  difficulties  to 
be  surmounted,  became  impatient  and  urgent,  and  about  the  middle  of 
April  eight  promising  children  were  brought  from  a  distance  of  160  miles, 
to  be  placed  at  the  school;  the  parents  having  been  informed,  that  the 
mission  was  in  readiness  to  receive  them.  It  was  a  trying  case.  To 
turn  the  children  away,  would  not  only  be  a  great  disappointment  to  the 
parents,  but  make  an  unfavorable  impression  upon  the  nation;  and  to 
receive  them  under  circumstances  then  existing,  was  a  matter  of  extreme 
difficulty,  and  no  small  risk;  especially,  as,  if  they  were  received,  others 
also  must  be  taken.  After  prayerful  deliberation,  as  the  parents  seemed 
willing  to  have  their  children  disposed  of,  as  circumstances  would  render 
necessary,  if  they  might  only  be  left,  the  brethren  decided  in  favor  of 
receiving  them.  "We  felt  it  to  be  our  duty,"  they  say,  "to  keep  the 
children,  and  open  our  school;  believing  that  the  Lord  would  continue  to 
provide." 

Accordingly,  on  the  19th  of  April,  the  school  was  commenced  with  ten 
Choctaw  children. 

The  next  morning  after  the  opening  of  the  school,  Mr.  Kingsbury  was 
seized  with  a  severe  illness;  which,  at  first,  was  a  bilious  fever;  but,  after 


244  REPORT.  1819, 

two  or  three  weeks,  changed  to  a  regular  intermittent,  which  continued 
with  variations,  into  June.  During  this  period,  from  April  to  June,  all 
the  members  of  the  mission,  male  and  female,  were  visited  with  sickness, 
in  a  greater  or  less  degree,  and  some  of  them  were  not  slightly  ill. 

Referring  to  their  sicknesses,  the  brethren  say. 

"We  cannot  impute  these  repeated  afflictions  to  any  particular  unfavor- 
ableness  of  our  situation.  That  we  should  be  affected  by  the  great  change 
of  climate  was  to  be  expected,  especially  considering  our  many  exposures. 
Nor  was  the  change  of  climate  greater  than  the  change  of  diet:  both  must 
have  had  considerable  effect  on  our  health." 

Their  labors,  their  hardships,  their  exposures  were  great; — and  their 
privations,  owing  to  the  newness  of  their  situation,  their  distance  from 
white  settlements,  and  the  unusual  scarcity  of  bread  stuffs  the  last  winter, 
in  that  country,  were  also  great.  But  the  Lord  was  gracious.  The  lives 
of  them  all  were  precious  in  his  sight;  and  health  has  been  restored  to 
the  mission. 

Tn  April,  Dr.  William  W.  Pride,  a  young  physician,  of  Cambridge, 
New  York, — and  Mr.  Isaac  Fisk  of  Holden,  Mass,  a  blacksmith  and  far 
mer,  in  the  prime  of  life,  and  of  more  than  ordinary  thrift  and  prospects 
in  the  world, — having  devoted  themselves  to  the  service,  and  been  accep 
ted  upon  ample  testimonials,  set  out  for  the  Choctaw  station.  They 
travelled  by  land;  visited  Brainerd  in  their  way,  where  for  particular  pur 
poses  they  staid  two  or  three  weeks;  and  arrived  at  Elliot  in  good  health 
on  the  first  of  August. 

Something  of  the  disposition  of  the  Choctaw  people  towards  the  mis 
sion,  appears  from  recitals  already  made.  Other  particulars  will  shew  it 
in  a  still  stronger  light. — Soon  after  the  brethren  arrived  in  the  nation, 
the  king,  Puk-sha-nub-bee,  gave  for  the  school,  $200  to  be  paid  annually 
from  the  annuity  received  by  his  part  of  the  nation,  from  the  U.  S.  In 
the  fore  part  of  August,  a  council  of  the  nation  was  held,  at  which  Mr. 
Kingsbury,  by  particular  invitation,  was  present.  Under  date  of  Aug.  12, 
Mr.  Kingsbury  writes: — 

"For  some  time  I  was  apprehensive,  that  nothing  decisive  would  be 
done  for  schools.  Yesterday,  by  the  consent  and  approbation  of  the 
Agent,  I  gave  them  a  short  talk.  It  was  well  received.  To-day  the 
subject  of  the  school  was  taken  up  in  the  council.  It  was  proposed,  that 
individuals  who  felt  interested  for  the  school,  should  give  cows  and  calves, 
and  money,  as  they  felt  able  and  disposed.  A  subscription  was  opened 
on  the  spot;  and  eighty  five  cows  and  calves,  and  $500  to  be  paid  annu 
ally,  and  $700  as  a  donation  to  the  establishment,  or  annually  while  their 
children  are  at  school,  were  subscribed. 

"The  cows  and  calves,  it  was  expressly  stated,  were  a  free  gift,  whether 
the  individuals  send  children  or  not.  The  money  generally  was  con 
sidered  as  a  partial  compensation  for  board  of  children,  either  now  at 
school,  or  to  be  sent  hereafter,  except  $500  from  their  annuity. 

"It  is,  however,  to  be  understood,  that  great  allowance  must  be  made 
for  failures  in  collecting,  and  it  will  also  be  attended  with  considerable 
expense.  But  I  cannot  doubt,  that  the  establishment  will  realize  a  sub 
stantial  benefit  from  the  result." 

These  facts  speak  much;  and  are  in  accordance  with  the  general  dis 
position  manifested  by  the  nation. 


1819.  REPORT.  245 

In  his  letter  last  referred  to,  Mr.  Kingsbury  says.  "Our  school  at 
.present  consists  of  20  promising  children.  Many  more  are  anxious  to 
come,  but  we  are  unable  to  obtain  provisions  for  them  at  present.  And 
in  his  talk,  delivered  to  the  council  about  the  same  time,  he  said  to  them: 
"Brothers,  we  have  twenty  of  your  children  in  our  school,  who  are  learn 
ing  very  well.  When  dry  corn  comes  plenty,  about  the  first  of  October, 
we  will  take  20  or  30  more.  We  wish  to  do  all  for  your  children  that 
we  can." 

To  meet  and  secure  these  favorable  dispositions,  is  a  matter  of  great 
importance.  The  effect  of  disappointing  them  might  be  incalculably  det 
rimental.  The  brethren  of  the  mission  have  done  what  they  could:  and 
they  have  done  much.  Feeble  handed,  as  they  have  been;  weakened 
and  afflicted  with  sickness;  subjected  to  inconveniences;  encompassed 
with  difficulties;  struggling  on  in  weariness  and  painfulness;  it  is  wonder 
ful,  that  in  so  short  a  time,  they  have  brought  the  establishment  to  its 
present  state.  They  need  help,  and  must  have  help. 

More  than  five  years  ago,  Mr.  Alfred  Wright,  while  a  student  in  the 
Theological  Seminary  at  Andover,  after  serious  and  prayerful  delibera 
tion,  came  to  the  resolution  to  devote  himself  to  the  missionary  work 
among  the  heathen,  should  Providence  open  to  him  the  way;  but  a  fail 
ure  of  health  has  hindered  him.  After  a  residence,  however,  in  North 
Carolina  for  two  or  three  years,  in  a  climate  favorable  to  his  constitution, 
he  found  his  health  so  far  restored,  as  to  encourage  him  to  commence 
preaching;  and  for  several  months  past  he  has  been  employed  in  mission 
ary  labors  to  good  acceptance,  in  South  Carolina.  With  the  return  of 
health,  his  desire  to  go  to  the  heathen  has  gained  strength  and  animation. 

Having  offered  himself  to  the  service,  under  the  patronage  of  this 
Board,  with  satisfactory  testimonials,  he  is  now  under  appointment  to 
the  Choctaw  mission.  A  request  has  been  sent  on  for  him  to  be  ordained 
at  Charleston,  (S.  C.)  and  it  is  hoped,  that  he  will  join  the  mission  before 
winter. 

Several  young  men,  teachers  and  mechanics,  have  offered  themselves, 
and  been  accepted,  for  the  service  among  the  Aborigines;  some  of  whom 
are  intended  for  the  Choctaw  nation.  And  the  Committee  cannot  doubt, 
that  it  will  be  the  pleasure  of  the  Board,  that  the  help  and  means,  requi 
site  for  the  work  there,  should  be  supplied,  with  as  little  delay  as  possible. 

The  appearances  are  of  a  nature  not  to  be  mistaken,  that  in  the  Choc 
taw  nation,  as  well  as  in  the  Cherokee,  the  fields  are  white  already  to  the 
harvest;  and  to  inspire  the  hope,  and  the  confidence  in  the  Lord  of  the 
harvest,  that  he  that  reapeth  will  receive  wages  and  gather  fruit  unto  life 
eternal. 

ARKANSAS. — About  twenty-two  months  ago,  proposals  were  made,  in 
behalf  of  the  Board,  to  that  portion  of  the  Cherokee  nation  that  have 
migrated  to  the  Arkansas,  for  the  establishment  of  a  mission  and  schools 
among  them.  The  proposals  were  favorably  received,  and  a  strong  de 
sire  was  expressed  by  the  Arkansas  chiefs,  that  their  people  might  be 
favored  with  means  of  instruction,  similar  to  those  afforded  to  their  breth 
ren  on  this  side  of  the  Mississippi.  These  proposals  were  solemnly  re 
peated  in  May  1818,  and  were  received  with  gratitude.  About  ten  months 
ago,a  conference  was  held  with  them,  by  the  Rev.  M.  Peck,  from  the  Bap- 


246  REPORT.  1819. 

tist  Board  of  Foreign  Missions,  and  the  Rev.  Mr.  Ficklin  from  the  Ken 
tucky  Mission  Society,  with  reference  to  establishments  contemplated  by 
their  respective  societies.  They  too  were  answered  with  kindness,  but 
were  given  to  understand,  that  their  proposals  could  not  be  accepted, 
until  more  should  be  known  respecting  our  intentions.  At  the  instance 
of  the  chiefs,  and  with  a  highly  creditable  liberality  and  Christian  spirit, 
a  correspondence  was  opened  by  them  on  the  subject;  which  resulted  in 
a  talk,  sent  to  the  chiefs  by  Mr.  Peck,  in  the  latter  part  of  last  winter,  of 
the  following  purport. 

"BROTHERS, — I  have  heard  from  your  brothers  in  the  north,  who  have 
a  mission  among  the  Cherokees  on  the  other  side  of  the  Mississippi. 
They  remember  you  with  great  love,  and  have  not  forgotten  the  promise 
to  send  you  teachers.  They  have  appointed  a  good  man,  who  will  visit 
you  soon,  and  afterwards  other  good  men,  who  will  instruct  you  and  your 
children,  and  seek  your  welfare. — I  will  do  all  in  my  power  to  promote 
the  good  work." 

"And  may  the  Great  Spirit  breathe  upon  the  Chief  and  head  men,  and 
upon  all  the  Cherokees  on  the  Arkansas,  both  small  and  great — disperse 
all  the  clouds,  and  cause  the  true  light  to  shine  upon  them,  that  they  may 
be  happpy  here  and  after  death." 

The  person  here  referred  to,  as  having  been  appointed  to  visit  them 
soon,  was  the  Rev.  Alfred  Finney,  who  was  mentioned  in  the  Report  of 
the  last  year.  He  was  designated  for  the  Arkansas  in  November,  with 
the  intention,  that  he  should  go  out  early  in  the  spring,  explore  the  coun 
try,  make  arrangements  preparatory  to  the  contemplated  establishment, 
and  be  joined  by  others,  as  soon  as  should  be  deemed  advisable.  But 
particular  circumstances  occasioned  delay. 

Mr.  Finney  and  his  wife  are  now  with  the  company  from  Rockaway, 
mentioned  under  the  head  of  the  Cherokee  mission,  as  being  bound  to 
Brainerd.  At  Brainerd,  he  is  to  be  joined  by  the  Rev.  Cephas  Washburn, 
mentioned  also  in  the  last  year's  Report;  who  has  been  employed  for  the 
last  nine  months  in  Georgia,  and  has  received  instructions  to  leave 
Georgia,  in  season  to  reach  Brainerd  about  the  first  of  November. 

From  Brainerd,  Messrs.  Washburn  and  Finney  are  to  proceed  to 
Elliot;  and  there  leave  their  wives  with  the  Choctaw  mission,  until  they 
shall  have  visited  the  Arkansas  and  made  such  preparations,  as  shall  ren 
der  the  residence  there  of  females,  belonging  to  the  mission,  safe  and 
proper.  The  mission  is  projected  on  the  same  general  plan  with  those 
already  established;  and  is  intended  to  be  put  forward  with  all  convenient 
despatch. 

The  Chickasaws,  whose  country  lies  partly  between  the  Cherokees 
and  the  Choctaws,  have  been  for  a  considerable  time  expecting  and  de 
siring  a  mission  to  them;  and  it  has  been  declared  to  be  the  pleasure  of 
the  Board,  that  means  of  instruction  should  be  extended  them,  similar  to 
those  afforded  to  their  neighbors.  It  has  not  yet  been  found  convenient 
to  commence  an  establishment  among  them;  but  the  design  is  entertained 
with  much  earnestness,  and  will  be  put  in  execution  with  as  little  delay 
as  possible. 

This  business  of  civilizing  and  christianizing  the  Indian  tribes,  is 
becoming  extremely  urgent.  The  national  government  is  convinced, — 
the  people  throughout  the  States  are  convinced,^ — the  Indians  themselves, 


1819.  REPORT.  247 

the  better  informed  of  them  at  least,  are  convinced, — that  they  must  be 
come  civilized,  and  that  soon, — or  soon  become  extinct.  The  alterna 
tive  is  absolute.  It  should  be  felt  as  such  by  every  heart.  Not  a  few,  it 
is  to  be  feared,  in  different  parts  of  the  country,  really  desire  the  exter 
mination  of  these  original  possessors  of  the  soil;  and,  of  course,  will  favor 
no  designs  for  their  improvement.  A  larger  number  either  think  their 
civilization  impracticable,  or  else  think  little,  and  care  little,  about  it. 
But  the  benevolent  part  of  the  community  is  waking  up  to  the  object; — 
the  government  favors  it; — the  Indians  shew  a  disposition  respecting  it, 
such  as  has  been  manifested  by  them  in  no  former  period — a  desire  tend 
ing  to  deep  anxiety; — divine  Providence  is  opening  the  way  to  it,  with 
unexpected  facilities  and  advantages; — and  the  divine  Spirit  has  given  to 
it  his  decisive  sanction,  and  an  assurance  of  his  readiness  to  accom 
pany  the  proper  means  with  his  Almighty  aid. 

The  time  for  the  work  is  come.  If  it  be  neglected,  the  object  is  lost. 
Baleful  circumstances  will  arise; — scenes  of  strife  and  of  destruction  will 
ensue;  and  the  Indians  will  melt  away  and  perish.  But  they  will  not 
perish,  before  it  shall  have  been  made  clear  to  the  world,  that  they  might 
have  been  preserved,  and  raised  up  to  the  enjoyment  of  the  privileges 
and  blessings  of  Christian  civilization.  If  they  perish — if  they  become 
extinct — their  blood  will  be  upon  this  nation. 

The  responsibility  is  not  a  light  one. — Nor  is  it,  though  feasible,  a 
small  work.  It  will  require  much  attention,  much  wisdom,  much  labor, 
much  expense.  This  Board  must  not  be  weary  in  well  doing;  the  friends 
of  religion  and  of  humanity  throughout  the  nation  must  be  excited;  all 
hearts  and  all  hands  must  be  engaged  for  one  mighty  effort. 

SANDWICH  ISLANDS. — It  is  well  known  to  the  Board,  and  to  the  Chris 
tian  community  extensively,  that  there  are  several  youths  from  the  Sand 
wich  Islands  under  special  patronage  and  instruction  in  this  Christian  land. 
It  was,  indeed,  the  desire  for  their  instruction, — that  they  might  not  only 
enjoy  the  blessings  of  Christianity  themselves,  but  also  be  instrumental  in 
communicating  them  to  their  friends  and  countrymen, — that  gave  birth 
to  our  Foreign  Mission  School.  And  the  expectation  has  been  fondly 
cherished  by  many  thousands,  that  as  soon  as  suitably  qualified,  these 
youths  would  be  sent  back  to  their  native  islands;  and  that  missionaries 
of  our  own  country  would  be  also  sent,  with  a  view  to  the  introduction 
and  establishment  of  the  gospel  there,  with  all  its  civilizing  and  saving 
influences. 

Obookiah,  whose  heart  was  filled  with  the  holy  design,  in  whom  a 
particular  interest  was  extensively  felt,  and  on  whom  no  ordinary  hopes 
were  placed, — is  not  to  return  to  Owhyhee. — God  had  provided  some 
better  thing  for  him. — But  though  dead,  he  yet  speaketh;  and  in  a  tone, 
and  with  an  emphasis,  not  to  be  unheeded.  His  Memoirs, — like  those 
of  the  still  dearly  remembered  Mrs.  Newell, — are  pleading  the  cause, 
which  was  dearest  to  his  heart,  with  powerful  effect. 

His  mantle  too  is  with  his  brethren.  Three  of  them,  giving  satisfac 
tory  evidence  of  piety,  of  well  established  Christian  principles  and 
habits,  of  promising  abilities  for  usefulness,  and  of  a  sincere  and  ardent 
desire  of  being  employed  in  the  great  work  of  evangelizing  their  coun 
trymen,  are  thought  to  be  so  far  advanced  in  knowledge,  and  other  qual- 


248  RRPORT.  1819. 

ifications,  as  to  render  it  advisable  to  gratify  their  desire,  as  soon  as  con 
venient.  And  a  fourth,  the  son  of  Tamoree,  one  of  the  kings  of  the 
islands,  is  impatient  of  delay:  and  though  not  like  the  others,  exhibiting 
evidence  of  a  truly  religious  character,  yet  possessing  vigorous  faculties, 
having  made  good  proficiency  in  his  studies,  and  being  impressed  with  a 
conviction  of  the  importance  of  Christianity  to  himself  and  to  his  coun 
trymen,  the  hope  is  entertained,  that  he  will  be  a  friend  to  the  mission, 
and  a  blessing  to  his  nation. 

Of  the  sons  and  daughters  of  our  Zion,  several  appear  to  have  had 
their  hearts  prepared  by  divine  grace  for  this  arduous  mission  to  the  isles 
afar  off.  Mr.  Daniel  Chamberlain,  of  Brookfield,  Mass.,  a  substantial 
farmer  in  the  prime  of  life,  with  a  rising  family,  and  in  the  midst  of  pros 
perity,  has  given  up  all  that  would  hold  him  to  his  country,  to  his  home, 
or  to  his  earthly  pursuits,  and  willingly  offered  himself  and  his  family  for 
the  service.  Dr.  Thomas  Holman,  a  young  physician  of  Cooperstown, 
N.  Y. — Mr.  Samuel  Ruggles  of  Brookfield,  Con.,  a  member  of  the  For 
eign  Mission  School  from  its  commencement;  Mr.  Elisha  Loomis,  of 
Middlesex,  N.  Y.,  by  trade  a  printer,  and  for  some  time  past  a  student 
at  the  same  school;  and  Mr.  Samuel  Whitney  of  Branford,  Con.,  a  mem 
ber  of  Yale  College,  and  also  possessed  of  mechanical  skill; — have,  in 
like  manner,  devoted  themselves,  desiring  to  be  enrolled  for  the  mission, 
and  to  be  employed  in  such  parts  of  the  work,  as  they  are  best  qualified 
respectively  to  execute. 

Mr.  Hiram  Bingham,  of  Bennington,  Vt.,  and  Mr.  Asa  Thurston  of 
Fitchburg,  Mass.,  approved  men,  whose  preparatory  studies  in  the  Theo 
logical  Seminary  at  Andover  are  just  closed — yet  of  mature  age,  and 
somewhat  acquainted  with  mechanical  arts — are  designated,  as  principals 
of  the  mission,  and  their  ordination  is  appointed  to  be  at  Goshen  in  Con 
necticut,  on  the  last  Wednesday  of  the  present  month. 

A  passage  to  the  Sandwich  Islands  is  engaged  for  these  missionaries 
and  assistants,  with  their  wives  and  the  four  islanders,  on  board  the  brig 
Thaddeus,  bound  from  this  port  to  the  Northern  Pacific  Ocean, -and  ex 
pected  to  sail  in  about  a  month  from  this  time.  It  is  intended,  that  the 
mission  shall  be  amply  furnished;  and  an  assurance  is  felt  that  it  will  be 
attended  with  the  hopes  and  desires,  and  prayers  of  many  thousands. — 
The  Society  Islands  have  proclaimed  JEHOVAH  for  their  God;  and  the 
Sandwich  Isles  are  waiting  for  his  law. 

FOREIGN  MISSION  SCHOOL. — This  seminary,  so  strong  in  the  affec 
tions,  and  so  dear  to  the  hearts  of  Christians,  is  in  a  highly  gratifying 
course  of  advancement. 

The  present  number  of  pupils  is  thirty-two.  Of  this  number  nine  are 
from  distant  heathen  countries — six  from  the  Sandwich  Islands,  one  from 
Otaheite,  one  a  Chinese  from  Malacca,  one  from  Sumatra; — seventeen 
are  aboriginal  Americans — seven  Cherokees,  twoChoctaws,  two  Oneidas, 
two  from  the  Stockbridge  tribe,  one  from  Pennsylvania,  and  one  from 
Canada; — and  six  are  young  persons  of  our  own  country,  preparing  for 
the  missionary  service. 

Seven  of  the  youths  from  heathen  lands,  have  publicly  professed  their 
faith  in  the  Redeemer,  and  been  admitted  to  the  sealing  ordinances  of 
the  Everlasting  Covenant;  and  their  conduct  has  been  such  in  general, 


1819.  REPORT.  249 

as  to  adorn  the  doctrine  of  God  our  Savior,  and  to  give  an  example  very 
salutary  in  its  influence  on  the  school.  Besides  these,  several  others  in 
dulge  the  hope,  that  they  have  passed  from  death  unto  life;  and  others 
still  are  impressed  with  serious  convictions  of  the  truth  and  importance 
of  Christianity. 

At  the  late  examination,  the  Executive  Committee  of  the  school 
took  particular  note  of  the  pupils  individually,  as  to  their  behavior  and 
their  progress;  and  their  Report  is  such  as  to  inspire  confidence  and 
hope. 

"It  is  exceedingly  animating,  say  that  Committee,  to  see  what  improve 
ments  have  already  been  made  by  all  these  Cherokee  and  Choctaw 
youths.  It  is  but  a  little  time,  since  they  were  in  regions  of  heathen 
darkness;  and  but  for  the  interference  of  Christian  beneficence,  they  had 
lived  and*died  strangers  to  the  privileges  and  blessings,  which  the  Gospel 
tenders  to  a  lost  world.  It  would  seem  that  no  person,  who  should  exam 
ine  the  youths  at  the  Foreign  Mission  School,  together  with  the  success 
ful  efforts,  at  the  missionary  stations  of  Brainerd  and  Elliot,  could  doubt 
the  utility  of  persevering  exertions,  to  civilize  and  christianize  the 
Aboriginal  Americans." 

The  Executive  Committee  proceed  to  say, — 

It  has  been  deemed  expedient,  that  the  members  of  the  school  should  be 
taught  the  various  branches  of  husbandry.  They  have  accordingly  labored 
in  rotation,  under  the  superintendence  of  the  steward  Their  attention 
the  past  season  has  been  turned  particularly  to  horticulture. — Most  of  the 
various  kinds  of  vegetables  for  culinary  use  have  been  raised  in  the  garden 
this  season. — The  pupils  have  been  able  to  perform  the  requisite  labor  in 
the  early  and  latter  part  of  each  day,  without  encroaching  upon  the  regular 
hours  of  study. 

"Mr.  Daggett  has  found  it  necessary  to  employ  an  assistant  through 
the  year,  and  the  Executive  Committee  have  engaged  the  same  per 
son,  Mr.  John  H.  Prentice,  as  an  assistant  in  the  school  for  the  ensuing 
year." 

The  Committee  would  notice  with  gratitude  the  liberality  of  Christians 
in  various  parts  of  our  country,  in  support  of  the  institution.  Donations 
have  been  received  for  this  purpose  from  many  individuals — from  female 
benevolent  societies,  and  from  associations  of  males.  The  donations 
have  been  in  money,  in  various  articles  of  clothing  and  bedding,  in  books, 
and  many  other  things  of  utility  to  the  institution. 

"The  expenses  of  the  establishment  are  necessarily  considerable:  and 
increase  of  course  in  proportion  to  the  admissions  to  the  school.  The 
Committee  cherish  the  belief,  that  the  exertions  and  charities  of  the  Chris 
tian  community  will  be  commensurate  with  the  increasing  expenses. 
Without  their  continued  beneficence,  the  dear  youth  at  the  school  must 
be  abandoned — sent  back  to  the  region  whence  they  came,  and  left  to 
wander  through  life  amid  the  glooms  of  pagan  darkness.  May  He, 
whose  are  the  silver  and  the  gold,  impress  it  indelibly  on  the  inind  of 
every  Christian,  that  IT  is  MORE  BLESSED  TO  GIVE  THAN  TO  RECEIVE." 

In  the  conclusion  of  their  Report,  the  Executive  Committee  pay  a 
very  handsome,  and  it  is  believed,  a  very  just,  tribute  of  grateful  commen 
dation  to  *  the  distinguished  excellence  of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Dagget,  the 
Principal  of  the  school, — who  appears  to  be  eminently  qualified  to  pre- 
32 


250  REPORT.  1819. 

side  over  such  an  institution  —  is  universally  respected  and  beloved  by 

his 

wel 


his  pupils  —  and  labors  in  season  and  out  of  season  to  promote  their  best 
lfare." 


FUNDS  —  The  donations  to  the  Board  within  the  year  past  have  been 
about  thirty-four  thousand  dollars,  and  other  sources  of  income  have 
amounted  to  three  thousand.  Thus  there  has  been  a  small  advance  in 
the  receipts,  notwithstanding  the  pecuniary  embarrassments  of  our  coun 
try.  The  expenditures  of  the  Board,  within  the  same  period,  have 
somewhat  surpassed/or^?/  thousand  dollars,  which  is  about  three  thousand 
more  than  the  receipts.  The  sum  immediately  needed,  particularly  for 
the  Palestine  and  Sandwich  Islands  missions,  is  much  greater  than  the 
balance  on  hand,  after  deducting  from  that  balance  the  permanent  fund, 
and  those  legacies,  which  though  not  expressly  'assigned  to  fhat  fund, 
it  seems  desirable  to  keep  as  a  last  fesort.  But  the  Committee  do  not 
hesitate  to  confide  in  that  Christian  liberality,  which  has  been  hitherto 
displayed. 

Donations  have  been  received  from  more  than  Jive  hundred  associa 
tions,  of  various  names;  some  formed  for  the  general  objects  of  the  Board, 
and  others  for  specific  objects.  Many  of  these  associations  are  new;  but 
it  must  be  stated  also,  that  many  others,  previously  existing,  have  not 
made  remittances  within  the  time  above-mentioned.  From  a  considera 
ble  proportion  of  these,  however,  aid  may  still  be  expected.  Others  have 
united  with  larger  auxiliary  associations  in  their  vicinity.  Contributions 
made  at  the  monthly  concert  have  been  received  from  ninety-four  church 
es,  of  which  fifty-nine  made  their  first  remittances  during  the  year  past. 
It  is  confidently  believed,  that  this  source  of  income  will  be  greatly  in 
creased.  Nine  Masonic  Lodges  have  made  donations  for  the  distribution 
of  the  Scriptures:  eight  of  them  for  the  first  time  within  the  limits  em 
braced  by  this  Report. 

CONCLUSION.  —  To  the  Auxiliary  Societies  and  various  Associations, 
formed  and  acting  on  the  principle  of  giving  permanent  aid  to  the  Board; 
—  and  to  many  thousands  of  individuals,  associated  and  unassociated, 
who  regularly  make  their  weekly,  monthly,  or  yearly  offerings,  —  very 
grateful  acknowledgments  are  due,  for  their  continued,  and,  in  many 
instances,  increased  liberality.  They,  under  Providence,  are  the  support 
arid  strength  of  the  Board.  Grateful  acknowledgments  are  also  due  to 
the  churches,  congregations,  and  individuals,  from  whom  occasional 
contributions,  and  not  a  few  of  them  in  a  high  degree  liberal,  have  been 
received.  —  And  your  Committee  have  a  lively  and  elevated  pleasure  in 
saying,  that  in  these  acknowledgments  our  brethren  and  sisters  of  the 
south,  —  and  especially  of  Georgia  and  South  Carolina,  are  entitled  to  a 
distinguished  share.  Societies  and  individuals  there  have  shewn  a  liber 
ality,  which  it  is  to  be  hoped  will  provoke  many  in  other  states  and  sec 
tions  of  our  country  to  generous  emulation. 

It  is  in  the  spirit  and^agreeable  to  the  principles  and  plan  of  this  Board, 
which  neither  in  name,  in  constitution,  in  system,  nor  in  feeling,  is  sec 
tional,  sectarian,  or  exclusive,  to  engage  and  unite  American  Christians, 
in  concurrence  with  the  Christians  of  other  countries,  in  the  great  work 
of  enlightening  the  dark  places  of  the  earth,  and  bringing  the  world  under 


1819.  REPORT.  251 

the  benign  sceptre  of  its  Redeemer  and  rightful  Sovereign.  And  the 
multiplying  and  strengthening  of  the  ties  of  Christian  affection,  and  the 
expanding  and  invigorating  of  the  spirit  of  Christian  fellowship,  which 
must  be  the  effect  of  union  in  such  a  design,  must  be  delightful  to  every 
well  informed  Christian  mind,  and  well  pleasing  to  HIM,  whose  command 
ment  it  is — that  his  disciples  should  love  one  another. 

The  Board  has  now  under  its  direction,  and  dependent  upon  its  funds, 
twenty  three  MISSIONARIES,  and  as  many  ASSISTANTS  in  the  different 
parts  of  the  work, — sacredly  devoted  to  the  service  for  life; — with  thirty 
five  FEMALE  HELPERS  of  like  spirit.  In  its  mission  families  and  schools 
it  has  from  two  to  three  thousand  heathen  children  and  youth  under 
Christian  instruction;  of  whom  from  two  to  three  hundred  are  also  chiefly 
supported  from  its  funds. — The  numbers  are  continually  increasing;  the 
operations  are  extending;  and  the  necessary  expenditures  are  multiplying 
and  augmenting.  If  our  nation — if  American  Christians — have  been 
long  under  the  guilt  of  robbing  God;  most  favorable  opportunities  are 
now  afforded  to  them,  and  most  powerful  motives  are  presented, — if  not 
for  cancelling  their  irredeemable  arrears, — yet  for  bringing  their  tithes, 
as  they  are  constantly  falling  due,  into  his  store  house,  with  punctuality, 
and  in  full  amount;  and  making  their  free  will  offerings  with  largness  and 
gladness  of  heart.  It  should  be  the  devout  prayer  and  endeavor  of  every 
lover  of  his  country,  of  every  friend  to  the  best  interests  of  mankind,  that 
the  guilt  be  not  accumulated  and  aggravated,  by  neglect  of  the  opportuni 
ties  and  disregard  of  the  motives. 

The   command,    never   to   be   forgotten   is — Go   YE    INTO  ALL    THE 

WORLD,    AND    PREACH    THE    GOSPEL    TO     EVERY     CREATURE.         By    Chris- 

tians  and  Christian  ministers  the  command  must  be  fulfilled. — THE  GOS 
PEL  MUST  BE  SENT AND  PREACHED TO  EVERY  NATION  AND  FAMILY 

ON  EARTH.  This  is  the  duty  of  Christians: — to  render  it  effectual  to  the 
conversion  of  every  nation  and  family — is  not  required  of  them.  Let 
them  obediently  do  what  is  required;  and  humbly  wait  on  Him,  with 
whom  is  the  residue  of  the  Spirit,  to  command  the  blessing.  He  will  not 
be  slack  concerning  his  promise,  as  some  men  count  slackness. 
By  the  Prudential  Committee, 

S.  WORCESTER,  Clerk. 
Boston,  Sept.  15,  1819. 


PECUNIARY   ACCOUNTS   OF   THE   BOARD. 

T7ie    American    Board   of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  in  account  current  with 
Jeremiah  Evarts,  their    Treasurer,  Dr. 

To  cash  paid  from  Sept.  1,  1818,  to  August  31,  1819,  in  conformity  to  orders  of  the  Board, 
and  of  the  Prudential  Committee,  from  No.  296  to  No.  434,  both  inclusive}  viz.  as  classed 
summarily  under  the  following  heads: 

Salaries,  translations,  schools,  and  other  necessary  expenses  of  the 
mission  at  Bombay,  -  -       '' '-:'"       $5,498  10 

Outfits,  passages,  salaries,  printing,  schools,  and  other  necessary  ex 
penses  of  the  mission  at  Ceylon,  .  11,209  79—16,707  89 

Outfits,  travelling  expenses,  schools,  labor,  provisions,  and   various 
necessary  supplies  of  the  Cherokee  mission,  -  -        6,95693 

Do.        do.    of  the  Choctaw  mission,  2,985  45—9,942  38 

Foreign  Mission  School  at  Cornwall,  Con.  -  4,926  40 

Carried  forward,        #31,576  G7 


252  PECUNIARY  ACCOUNTS.  1819. 

Brought  forward,        #31,576  67 

Preparatory  expenses  of  the  Arkansas  mission,  609  47 

Do.        do.     of  the  Sandwich  Islands  mission,         *-U;  .     13250 

Do.        do.     of  the  Palestine  mission,  -  -  160  00 901  97 

Miscellaneous  expenses  of  the  Board,  embracing  all  charges,  not  so 
conveniently  classed  under  the  foregoing  heads,  and  having  reference 
to  all  the  objects  of  the  Board,  ...  7,738  61 

Correction  of  a  mistake,   occasioned  by  the  same  sum  having  been 

communicated  in  two  different  ways,  30  00 

Losses  by  counterfeit  and  worthless  bills,  -  90  00 

$40,337  25 
Balance  carried  to  the  credit  of  the  Board,  in  new  account,  Sept.  1,  1319,  50,136  46 

$90,473  71 
Contra  Cr. 

By  cash  brought  to  the  credit  of  the  Board  in  new  account,  as  the 
balance,  Sept.  1,  1818,  -  $52,923  08 

By  cash   received   in  donations,  from  Sept.  1,   1818,  to  August  31, 

1819,  both  inclusive:  viz.  as  published  particularly  in  the  Panoplist,  34,166  68 

Interest  of  money  and  income  of  stock,  -  -        2,369  63 

From  the  government  of  the  United  Slates  for  the  support  of  Indian 
youths  at  the  Foreign  Mission  School,  400  00 

Half  the  travelling  expenses  of  the  four  first  youths,  who 
joined  the  school  from  the  Cherokee  and  Choclaw  nations,  re 
funded  by  the  government  of  the  United  Slates,  -  238  00—638  00 

Refunded  by  the  Rev.  Dr  Worcester,  the  balance  of  $150  advanced 
to  him  to  defray  the  expenses  of  his  journey  to  Washington,  16  32 

Avails  of  books  sold,  principally  ''the  Conversion  of  the  World,"  316  25 

Received  in  uncurrent  bills,  &c.  from  the  mission  treasury  at  Brainerd,      41  25 
Premium  on  Boston  money,  <§ec.  -  -  -  2  50 — 3,383  95 

$90,473  71 

Since  the  annual  meeting,  it  has  been  ascertained,  that  the  donation  of  $200  06,  acknowl 
edged  as  having  been  received  from  Liberty  county,  Georgia,  was  designed  for  the  American 
Education  Society.  The  mistake  was  made  in  the  letter  announcing  the  donation;  and  has 
been  corrected  by  paying  over  the  money.  Of  course,  the  donations  for  the  year  were 
$200  06  less  than  above  stated. 


M  I N  TJ  T  E  S 


ELEVENTH     ANNUAL     MEETING. 


THE  eleventh  annual  meeting  of  the  American  Board  of  Commis 
sioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  was  held  in  Hartford,  Conn,  at  the  house 
of  Henry  Hudson,  Esq.  on  the  20th  and  21st  of  Sept.  1820:— Present 

Hon.  JOHN  TREADWELL,  LL.  D. 

Rev.  JOSEPH  LYMAN,  D.  D. 

Hon.  STEPHEN  VAN  RENSSELAER, 

Rev.  JEDIDIAH  MORSE,  D.  D. 

Hon.  JOHN  C.  SMITH,  LL.  D. 

Hon.  JOHN  HOOKER,  Esq. 

Rev.  CALVIN  CHAPIN,  D.  D. 

Rev.  ALEXANDER  PROUDFIT,  D.  D. 

Rev.  ZEPHANIAH  S.  MOORE,  D.  D. 

Rev.  JEREMIAH  DAY,  LL.  D.  D.  D. 

Rev.  ELIPHALET  NOTT,  D.  D. 

Rev.  JAMES  RICHARDS,  D.  D. 

Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  D.  D.  and 

JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq. 

The  session  was  opened  with  prayer  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Lyman,  and  on 
the  following  day  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Morse. 

Minutes  of  the  last  annual  meeting  were  read. 

Letters  were  communicated  from  sundry  members  expressing  regret, 
that  they  were  unable  to  attend  this  session  of  the  Board. 

The  accounts  of  the  Treasurer  were  exhibited,  as  certified  by  the 
Auditor,  and  were  accepted  and  approved. 

The  report  of  the  Prudential  Committee  was  read,  accepted  and  ap 
proved. 

On  Wednesday  evening,  at  7  o'clock,  attended  public  worship,  when  a 
sermon  was  delivered  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Nott,  from  Mark  xvi,  15;  Go  ye 
into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature. 

The  report  of  the  Agents  of  the  Foreign  Mission  School  was  communi 
cated,  accepted,  and  approved. 

Gen.  Van  Rensselaer  and  Drs.  Worcester  and  Proudfit,  were  appoint 
ed  a  committee  to  present  the  thanks  of  this  Board  to  the  Rev.  Dr. 
Nott  for  his  sermon  delivered  before  them,  and  to  request  a  copy  for  the 
press. 


254  MINUTES  OF  THE  BOARD.  1820. 

The  following  gentlemen  were  chosen  officers  for  the  ensuing  year; 
viz. 

The  Hon.  JOHN  TREADWELL,  LL.  D.  President. 
Rev.  JOSEPH  LYMAN,  D.  D.  Vice  President. 
Rev.  JEDIDIAH  MORSE,  D.  D. 


Hon.  WILLIAM  REED, 


>  Prudential  Committee. 


Rev.  LEONARD  WOODS,  D.  D. 

Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  D.  D. 

JEREMIAH.  EVARTS,  Esq. 

Rev.  SAMUEL  WORCESTER,  D.D.  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Rev.  CALVIN  CHAPIN,  D.  D.  Recording  Secretary. 

JEREMIAH  EVARTS,  Esq.    Treasurer,  and 

ASHUR  ADAMS,  Esq.  Auditor. 

Governor  Smith,  Mr.  Hooker,  and  President  Day,  having  been  appoint 
ed  a  committee  to  consider  the  subject  of  a  periodical  publication,  which 
shall  belong  to  the  Board,  reported;  Whereupon 

Resolved,  That  it  is  expedient,  that  a  periodical  publication,  such  as  is 
described  in  "Proposals  for  continuing  by  subscription  the  Missionary 
Herald,"  should  be  established  at  the  expense  of  the  Board,  and  that  the 
Prudential  Committee  be  requested  to  carry  this  vote  into  execution. 

In  the  course  of  the  annual  meeting  it  was  resolved, 

That  the  next  annual  meeting  of  this  Board  be  holden  in  Springfield, 
(Mass.)  on  the  third  Wednesday  of  Sept.  1821,  at  10  o'clock,  A.  M.  and 
that  the  Hon.  John  Hooker,  and  the  Rev.  Samuel  Osgood  be  a  committee 
of  arrangements  for  that  meeting. 

That  this  Board  is  gratefully  impressed  with  the  liberal  and  increasing 
patronage  of  the  Christian  public  extensively  afforded  to  this  institution, 
its  measures,  and  objects;  and  that  the  Prudential  Committee  be  directed 
to  express  the  thanks  of  this  Board  to  all  societies,  churches,  congregations 
and  individuals,  from  whom  donations  have  been  received. 

That  the  thanks  of  the  Board  be  presented  to  Henry  Hudson,  Esq.  for 
the  accommodation  and  hospitality,  with  which  he  has  provided  for  the 
meeting;  to  other  individuals  and  families,  whose  kindness  and  hospitality 
have  been  experienced  by  the  members;  and  to  the  choir  of  singers,  in 
the  Brick  Church,  for  their  services: 

That  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Prudential  Committee  to  compile  and 
publish  a  report,  including  their  report  for  the  last  year;  the  report  from 
the  Agents  of  the  Foreign  Mission  School;  a  statement  of  the  Treasurer's 
accounts;  such  a  detail  of  donations  as  may  be  found  useful;  extracts 
from  the  minutes  of  the  present  session;  and  such  other  information  as 
they  shall  judge  expedient. 

The  Rev.  Dr.  Proudfit  having  been  appointed  to  preach  at  the  next 
meeting,  the  Rev.  Dr.  Morse  was  appointed  to  preach  in  case  of  his 
failure. 

The  meeting  was  closed  with  prayer  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Proudfit. 

REPORT. 

BRETHREN, — It  is  after  the  labors  of  ten  years,  that,  by  the  favor  of 
our  Master  and  Lord,  we  are  assembled  to-day  in  this  bower  of  Zion,  to 


1820.  REPORT.  255 

review  the  operations  and  mark  the  results;  to  erect  our  memorials,  to 
refresh  our  spirits,  and  to  gather  strength  and  counsel  for  the  prosecu 
tion  of  our  work.  The  various  recollections  and  endless  associations  of 
the  occasion — running  back  to  the  past  and  forward  to  the  future — mingle 
themselves  with  whatever  is  dear  to  our  best  affections  and  interesting  to 
our  best  hopes;  and  open  to  us  a  lively  and  extended  participation  in  the 
holy  fellowship,  that  gathers  together  in  one  all  things,  which  arc  in  heaven, 
and  which  are  on  earth. 

Of  the  eight  individuals,  who  at  first  composed  this  Board,  three — of 
the  thirty-seven,  who  have  been  enrolled  as  chartered  members,  six — 
have  been  advanced,  as  we  humbly  trust,  nearer  to  the  central  glory  of 
the  same  Divine  Fellowship.  The  former  three,  DWIGHT,  HUNTING-TON, 
and  SPRING — loved  and  revered  names — have  been  in  preceding  years 
affectionately  recorded.  The  other  three,  LANGDON,  APPLETON,  and 
PAYSON — names  also  revered  and  loved,  and  worthy  of  like  affectionate 
record,  have,  in  quick  succession,  been  removed  from  us  since  our  last 
anniversary.  They  rest  from  these  labors:  but  have  not  ceased  to  have 
an  interest  in  them.  They  are  labors  for  eternity;  and  the  results,  we 
may  humbly  assure  ourselves,  are  for  joy  and  grateful  celebration,  in  the 
highest  of  the  heavenly  places. 

It  seems  most  suitable  to  the  design  of  the  present  Report  to  observe, 
in  the  view  to  be  submitted,  the  chronological  order  of  the  several 
missions. 

BOMBAY  MISSION. — As  this  is  not  only  the  first  mission  of  this  Board, 
but  the  first  mission  ever  sent  from  this  Christian  country  to  any  foreign 
heathen  land,  or  portion  of  the  unevangelized  world,  it  cannot  but  be 
regarded  by  all,  who  wish  well  to  the  best  interests  of  mankind,  with 
peculiar  interest.  The  circumstances  of  its  origin  and  early  history  are 
too  deeply  impressed  on  the  minds  of  those,  who  were  immediately  concern 
ed  in  them,  ever  to  be  forgotten. 

For  a  year  and  a  half  the  Prudential  Committee  had  been  looking  with 
anxious  earnestness  for  an  opportunity  and  means  for  sending  forth  the 
young  men,  whose  solemn  dedication  of  themselves  to  the  service  of  Christ 
among  the  heathen  had,  under  the  wise  ordering  of  Providence,  given 
rise  to  the  deliberations,  which  issued  in  the  formation  of  this  Board.  It 
was  in  the  days  of  that  mighty  and  dreadful  conflict,  which  shook  the 
pillars  of  the  world,  and  filled  all  hearts  with  dismay  and  all  minds  with 
perplexity.  Our  vessels  were  not  permitted  to  go  from  our  ports,  and  no  way 
was  open  to  any  part  of  the  pagan  world.  All  then  was  gloomy  suspense, 
and  the  prospect  seemed  to  be  growing  still  darker,  when,  on  a  sudden, 
intelligence  was  communicated  of  a  vessel  preparing,  under  special  per 
mission,  to  sail  for  Calcutta.  It  was  on  the  27th  of  January,  1812,  that 
the  Prudential  Committee  met  at  Newburyport,  to  consider  and  act  upon 
the  question  of  sending  the  missionaries;  and  the  Harmony  was  appointed 
to  sail  from  Philadelphia,  on  the  10th  of  February.  The  missionaries 
had  not  been  ordained;  their  outfits  were  not  ready,  and  very  little  money 
had  yet  come  into  the  treasury.  It  was  an  hour  of  intensely  serious 
deliberation.  It  seemed  to  be  the  will  of  Him,  whose  servants  they  were, 
that  the  missionaries  should  be  sent;  and,  with  reliance  on  his  aid,  the 
decision  was  taken  to  send  them.  It  was  not  a  vain  reliance.  The 


256  REPORT,  1820, 

necessary  arrangements  were  made;  the  requisite  means  were  supplied, 
and,  by  the  whole  scene  of  the  preparation  and  departure  of  this  first 
American  mission,  an  impulse  was  given  to  the  missionary  spirit,  to  which, 
under  Providence,  are  in  no  small  measure  to  be  attributed  its  subsequent 
diffusion,  activity  and  productiveness. 

The  destination  of  the  mission  was  not  fixed,  but>  with  such  instruc 
tions  to  the  missionaries,  as  were  deemed  proper,  was  referred  to  the 
determination  of  Providence.  Providence,  ever  wise  and  ever  good,  en 
veloped  itself  for  not  a  short  season  in  darkness;  and  put  the  faith  and 
patience  of  the  missionaries,  and  their  patrons  and  friends,  to  severe  trial; 
and  it  was  not  until  the  former  part  of  the  year  1814,  about  two  years 
from  leaving  this  country,  that,  after  repeated  repulses  and  various  adver 
sities,  the  mission  was  quietly  settled  at  Bombay. 

Many  months  before  this  time,  Messrs.  Judson  and  Rice  had  separated 
themselves  from  the  mission;  and  Mrs.  Newell  had  been  taken  from  it, 
— that  every  where  she  might  plead  for  the  cause  with  irresistible 
eloquence.  And  about  a  year  and  a  half  after,  Mr.  Nott,  enfeebled  by 
disease,  came  to  the  determination  to  return  with  his  wife  to  his  native 
land. 

Only  Mr.  Hall  and  Mr.  Newell  now  remained: — and  this  was  only  five 
years  ago.  "In  point  of  numbers,"  said  they  in  a  letter  at  the  time,  "we 
two  missionaries  are  to  the  people  of  Bombay — to  say  nothing  of  the  mil 
lions  in  sight  of  Bombay — what  two  ministers  would  be  to  the  whole 
population  of  Connecticut,  were  the  people  of  that  state  all  heathens,  and 
the  two  ministers  far  removed  from  all  ministerial  intercourse  and  Chris 
tian  counsel."  Not  only  were  they  the  only  missionaries  then  at  Bom 
bay,  or  on  all  the  hither  side  of  India,  but,  so  far  as  appears,  Roman 
Catholics  excepted,  they  were  the  first  ministers  of  Christ,  who  had  ever 
preached  the  gospel  in  the  native  language  of  Bombay,  and  the  extensive 
provinces  adjacent,  containing  a  more  numerous  population  than  the 
whole  of  the  United  States. 

In  the  knowledge  and  use  of  this  strange  and  difficult  language,  the 
two  missionaries,  at  the  time  now  referred  to,  had  but  just  attained  to 
such  proficiency,  as  to  begin  to  speak  and  preach  in  it  to  the  people.  Of 
course,  they  were  but  just  prepared  to  commence  their  system  of  opera 
tions;  having  as  yet  no  permanent  school,  no  printing  press,  no  Bibles 
or  tracts  for  distribution. 

In  the  Report,  made  at  our  last  anniversary,  the  narrative  of  this  mis 
sion  was  brought  down  to  the  latter  part  of  the  preceding  May.  Your 
Committee  regret  to  state,  that  they  are  now  able  to  bring  it  down  only 
to  the  fore  part  of  January,  about  seven  months  later,  and  for  this  the 
materials  are  comparatively  scanty. 

While  our  merchants  were  trading  at  Bombay,  communications  from 
the  missionaries  were  frequent  and  copious;  but  since  that  trade  has 
ceased,  no  conveyance  is  afforded,  but  what  is  circuitous  and  precarious, 
and  the  communications  are  infrequent. 

The  entire  period,  then,  of  the  active  operations  of  the  Bombay  mis 
sion,  now  under  general  review,  is  only  a  period  of  about  four  years  and 
a  half;  viz.  from  the  summer  of  1815,  when  Mr.  Nott  left  the  mission, 
and  the  two  who  remained  were  just  prepared  to  begin  to  act,  to  the 
beginning  of  1820. 


1820.  REPORT.  257 

Your  Committee  are  the  more  particular  in  respect  to  these  dates,  and 
this  period  of  action,  as  it  is  apprehended,  that  they  have  not  been  suffi 
ciently  adverted  to  by  the  community,  or  perhaps  by  the  members  of  this 
Board.  It  seems  a  great  while — especially  to  minds  more  ardent  than 
considerate — since  the  first  missionaries  sailed  for  India.  It  is  scarcely 
remembered,  that,  from  the  time  of  their  sailing,  nearly  two  years  elapsed 
before  they  were  quietly  settled  at  Bombay;  or  that  then  very  little  could 
be  done,  until  they  had  acquired  a  knowledge  of  the  language  of  the 
country.  Hence  it  has  happened,  that  the  harvest  has  been  looked  for, 
before  the  seed  could  be  sown,  or  even  the  ground  broken  up. 

Of  the  state  and  progress,  the  plans  and  operations  of  this  mission, 
ample  statements  and  details  have  been  given  in  preceding  reports.  For 
the  present  occasion  only  a  succinct  recapitulation  is  designed. 

At  the  very  time  that  Mr.  Nott  was  embarking  at  Bombay,  for  his  re 
turn,  Mr.  Bardwell,  with  four  of  his  brethren,  who  were  intended  for 
Ceylon,  was  ordained  for  the  mission;  and  he  arrived  at  Bombay  on  the 
1st  of  November,  1816.  About  sixteen  months  after,  viz.  on  the  23d  of 
February,  1818,  Mr.  Nichols  and  Mr.  Graves  with  their  wives,  and  Miss 
Philomela  Thurston,  now  Mrs.  Newell,  arrived.  Thus  strengthened,  the 
mission,  so  far  as  is  known  to  your  Committee,  has  since  continued  with 
out  diminution;  consisting  of  five  missionaries  with  their  wives;  holding 
its  primary  seat  in  the  great  native  town  of  Bombay;  and  occupying  a 
station  at  Mahim,  distant  about,  six  miles  on  the  northern  part  of  the  same 
island,  and  another  distant  about  25  miles,  at  Tannah,  on  the  island  of 
Salsette,  of  which  it  is  the  chief  town. 

PREACHING  THE  GOSPEL,  as  they  have  opportunity,  to  the  untold  mul 
titudes  around  them,  of  whose  corruption,  darkness,  and  wretchedness 
no  adequate  conception  can  be  formed  in  this  land, — is  a  principal  and 
daily  work  of  the  missionaries.  In  the  prosecution  of  it,  they  not  only 
visit  the  temples  and  places  of  resort  in  the  city;  but  make  circuits  of  less 
or  greater  extent,  upon  the  islands,  and  in  the  provinces  of  the  continent. 
In  the  course  of  a  year,  many  thousands  thus  hear  from  them  something 
concerning  the  true  God  and  eternal  life. 

"Our  daily  custom" — they  say  in  their  latest  joint  letter,  dated  in  Jan 
uary — "our  daily  custom  of  addressing  the  people,  wherever  we  find 
them,  we  consider  our  most  important  business.  In  this  branch  of  our 
labor  we  find  some  of  our  highest  pleasures,  as  well  as  our  chief  trials. 

"The  brethren  in  Bombay  have  hired  a  large  room  for  a  school,  and 
have  made  some  use  of  it  for  the  stated  instruction  of  the  people  on  the 
Sabbath.  Attendance  at  present  is  rather  encouraging,  and  those,  who  as 
semble  are  in  general  as  silent  and  attentive  as  could  be  expected.  We 
would  hope,  that  the  divine  blessing  will  enable  us  to  continue  these  ex 
ercises,  and  will  make  them  ultimately  profitable  to  many. 

"During  the  past  seven  months,  we  have  taken  the  following  tours  for 
the  promotion  of  our  object.  Brother  Hall  visited  Panwell,  and  the  vi 
cinity,  across  on  the  coast.  Brother  Bardwell  went  to  Bancote,  and  sev 
eral  adjacent  towns,  with  some  others  nearer  Bombay.  Brethren  Nichols 
and  Graves  went  northward  to  Cullian  and  Bhewndy  with  several  small 
places  between  them  and  Basseen.  In  all  the  towns  we  distributed  many 
copies  of  the  tracts  and  portions  of  Scripture,  which  we  have  printed. 
All  these  tours  were  very  pleasant  and  refreshing  to  us.  But  we  were 
33 


258  REPORT.  1820. 

called  to  mourn  over  many  thousands  living  in  spiritual  darkness  and 
death;  while  we  could  only  give  to  some  of  them  a  hasty  outline  of  the 
way  of  salvation.  There  are  several  important  towns,  where,  if  a  mis 
sionary  were  permitted  to  settle,  he  might  enjoy  a  more  promising  station 
than  some  of  us  now  occupy.  We  would  hope  soon  to  welcome  breth 
ren,  who  will  supply  at  least  some  of  these  places." 

Of  their  tours  for  preaching  some  idea  may  be  formed  from  the  fol 
lowing  extracts. 

In  the  journal  of  his  tour  to  Panwell,  Mr.  Hall  says: 

"About  seven  o'clock  in  the  morning,  Dec.  14,  we  landed  at  Panwell, 
which  is  about  12  or  15  miles  east  of  Bombay, 

"16.  I  went  out  among  the  people  three  times,  which  occupied  nearly 
the  whole  of  the  day.  I  found  opportunities  for  communicating  religious 
instruction  to  a  very  considerable  number  of  people.  In  some  places,  I 
spoke  to  30,  40,  50  or  60  in  one  company.  In  another  place,  there  were 
no  more  than  three  or  four.  I  distributed  a  few  books  during  the  day. 
At  first,  when  the  people  were  told  I  had  religious  books  to  give,  they 
could  not  believe  it;  but  seemed  deterred  from  receiving  them,  through 
fear  they  should  have  to  pay  for  them  sooner  or  later.  The  idea  of  a  gratu 
itous  distribution  of  books  among  them,  was  what  they  probably  never  be 
fore  heard  or  thought  of.  But  when  they  were  convinced,  that  nothing 
would  ever  be  received  of  them  for  the  book;  and  that  they  were  religious 
books,  they  seemed  to  be  in  no  fear  of  receiving  them.  And  the  fact  of 
their  being  religious  books,  was  mentioned  among  themselves  more  than 
once,  iii  my  hearing,  as  a  reason  why  they  should  be  received.  I  soon 
perceived,  however,  that  only  a  small  part  of  the  people  could  read,  and 
that  I  was  not  likely  to  dispose  of  a  large  number  of  books,  unless  I 
were  in  effect  to  throw  them  away. 

"The  first  person,  who  asked  me  for  the  books,  was  a  Jew  of  respecta 
ble  appearance.  I  gave  him  Genesis  and  John,  bound  together,  and  a 
tract.  Of  this  man  I  learned  something  of  the  state  of  the  Jews  in  this 
place. 

"I  reached  the  further  village,  called  by  the  natives  Tukkeer,  between 
eleven  and  twelve  o'clock.  It  was  an  hour  of  the  day,  in  which  many 
of  the  people  were  engaged  in  their  respective  labors,  and  therefore  less 
favorable  for  their  assembling  to  hear  me.  I  walked  through  the  village 
and  saw  no  convenient  opportunity  for  commencing  my  labors.  After 
walking  about  until  I  began  to  be  weary,  and  almost  discouraged,  I  turned 
aside  to  a  border  of  the  village,  where  a  few  boys  were  at  play,  and  a  few 
adults  standing  near  them  under  the  grateful  shade  of  a  large  tamarind 
tree.  I  came  to  them,  and  asked  them  if  they  would  listen  to  what  I  had 
to  communicate  to  them.  They  readily  complied,  and  I  took  my  seat 
and  desired  them  to  sit  down  around  me,  and  also  to  invite  the  other  vil 
lagers,  who  were  disengaged,  to  come  and  hear.  About  thirty  persons 
were  soon  assembled,  and  to  them  I  read  and  discoursed  on  the  great 
things  of  the  gospel,  for  about  an  hour.  They  seemed  very  attentive:  no 
one  contradicted;  and  I  thought  their  appearance  manifested,  that  their 
consciences  testified  to  the  truth  of  God's  word,  which  they  heard.  I 
gave  books  to  a  few  among  them,  who  could  read,  and  they  were  re 
ceived  with  apparent  gratitude. 

"A  little  detached  from  the  town,  and  in  the  rear  of  a  large  Hindoo 


1820.  REPORT.  250 

temple,  was  a  little  hamlet  containing  about  15  huts.  Hearing  the  sound 
of  music  among  these  poor  cottages,  I  bent  my  course  thither,  and  found 
nearly  the  whole  village,  men,  women,  and  children,  60  or  70  in  all,  as 
sembled  in  one  house,  stowed  together  as  thick  as  possible,  and  engaged 
in  their  ceremonies.  The  occasion  was  this.  A  woman  was  ill  of  a 
fever,  though  to  appearance  she  was  by  no  means  severely  ill.  Her  poor 
heathen  neighbors,  in  their  sympathy  and  compassion,  were  assembled 
to  relieve  the  sick  woman  from  her  illness  by  their  incantations  and 
nameless  extravagances.  The  woman  was  seated  nearly  in  the  middle  of 
the  assembly.  Before  her,  some  white  marks  were  fancifully  drawn 
upon  the  ground,  (the  common  flooring  of  their  poor  houses,)  flowers, 
parched  rice,  &c.  were  scattered  about,  and  incense  was  burning.  A 
number  of  the  people,  men  and  women,  nearest  to  the  sick  person,  were 
writhing  and  forcing  themselves  into  the  most  wild,  unnatural  and  pain 
ful  attitudes,  sometimes  blowing  ashes  into  each  other's  faces,  beating 
themselves,  and  striking  their  foreheads  violently  on  the  ground.  The 
design  of  the  whole  seemed  to  be  to  move  their  god,  from  a  view  of  what 
they  were  voluntarily  suffering,  to  extend  relief  to  the  sick  person;  and 
this  seemed  to  be  accompanied  by  a  kind  of  challenge,  that  if  their  god 
would  not  grant  their  request,  they  would  torture  themselves  to  death. 
For  now  and  then  they  would  exclaim  to  their  god,  "Hear  us,  or  we  will 
die:  why  should  we  live,  if  thou  wilt  not  hear  us."  The  noise  of  several 
drums,  beating  at  the  same  time  in  the  house,  made  it  a  scene  of  much 
confusion,  which  is  generally  the  case,  when  any  ceremonies  of  idolatry 
are  performed.  The  scene  excited  in  my»  mind  an  unusual  degree  of 
tenderness  and  pity  for  these  my  deluded  fellow  mortals,  and  I  resolved 
that,  before  I  left  them,  I  would  instruct  their  ignorant  minds  in  the  knowl 
edge  of  the  true  God.  After  waiting  awhile,  they,  in  a  great  measure, 
intermitted  their  devotions;  and  I  addressed  myself  to  them,  and  desired, 
that  they  would  hear  what  I  had  to  say.  They  very  readily  complied, 
and  soon  all  were  still  in  the  house.  I  asked  them,  why  they  thus  tor 
tured  themselves!  Should  your  child,  said  I,  come  and  ask  any  thing  of 
you  when  it  stood  in  need,  would  any  one,  who  is  a  parent,  be  pleased  to 
see  his  child  put  itself  in  pain  and  anguish,  in  order  to  induce  the  parent 
to  give  the  thing  requested?  "No,  no,"  was  the  reply,  from  several  of  the 
company.  I  told  them,  that  God  was  their  kind  and  tender  parent;  that 
he  did  not  take  pleasure  in  seeing  any  of  his  creatures  inflict  pain  upon 
themselves;  and  that  he  was  able  and  ready  to  hear  and  grant  the  prayers 
of  all,  who  come  to  him  humble  and  penitent.  I  enlarged  upon  the  char 
acter  of  God;  endeavored  to  convince  them  of  their  great  sin  in  rejecting 
him,  and  worshipping  idols  and  beasts  and  men;  and  told  them,  how  their 
offended  Maker  would  be  reconciled  to  them  through  his  crucified  Son, 
if  they  would  repent,  believe,  forsake  their  idols,  and  obey  the  truth. 

"They  were  very  attentive,  and  some  of  them  were  somewhat  affected 
with  what  they  heard.  One  called  aloud  and  said,  I  was  a  God;  from 
which  I  took  occasion  to  reprove  her,  and  to  speak  further  to  them  on  the 
character  of  the  true  God,  whom  alone  they  must  worship,  if  they  would 
escape  everlasting  wo  and  obtain  eternal  happiness.  Some  said,  "Let 
us  lay  aside  our  ceremonies;"  and  I  have  reason  to  think  they  did  so.  I 
exhorted  them  to  think,  from  day  to  day,  of  what  I  had  told  them;  for 
it  was  God's  message  of  love  and  mercy  to  them.  They  said  they 


260  REPORT.  1820, 

would.     I  then  left  them  highly  grateful  for  the  attentive  hearing,  which 
they  gave  God's  word. 

"It  was  about  midday,  when  I  hastened  towards  the  village  of  Tarn- 
boor,  which  lies  on  the  road  to  Cullian,  and  is  about  three  miles  distant 
from  Panwell.  On  my  way  I  fell  in  with  two  travellers;  one  an  inhabitant 
of  Cullian,  to  whom  I  gave  tracts,  and  who  promised  to  have  them  read  in 
the  circle  of  his  relations  and  friends.  To  both  of  my  fellow  travellers,  I 
endeavored  to  point  out  the  only  way  to  heaven. 

"When  I  reached  the  village  of  Tamboor,  I  inquired  for  the  Pattell, 
that  is,  the  head  man  of  the  village.  Being  directed  to  him,  he  received 
me  in  a  very  friendly  manner;  and,  on  niy  proposing  it,  most  of  the  peo 
ple,  who  were  disengaged,  amounting  to  about  60,  were  almost  immediately 
assembled:  for  the  houses  of  this  little  hamlet,  though  more  than  20  in 
number,  are,  as  I  should  judge,  all  within  the  limits  of  an  acre  of  ground. 

"I  spent  nearly  an  hour  in  preaching  to  this  little  assembly.  The  peo 
ple  were  very  attentive.  None  contradicted  or  objected;  but  all  seemed  to 
approve;  and  they  promised  to  remember  and  regard  what  they  had  heard. 
They  told  me,  that  there  were  three  persons  belonging  to  the  village 
who  could  read;  but  that  they  had  all  gone  abroad.  I  left  books  for  them, 
which  the  people  promised  to  have  read.  It  seemed  a  matter  of  some 
surprise  to  these  villagers,  to  see  a  tvhite  man  travelling  about  on  foot,  in 
the  character  of  a  religious  teacher.  They  seemed,  however,  to  be  highly 
gratified  with  my  visit  to  them;  and,  on  my  departure,  they  gave  me  many 
compliments  and  good  wishes,  and  insisted  on  my  acceptance  of  one  of 
their  villagers,  to  guide  me  in*the  best  foot  path  to  the  next  village. 

The  next  place  I  arrived  at  can  hardly  be  called  a  village,  as  it  con 
tained  only  five  huts.  I  sat  down  by  the  way  side,  under  the  shade  of  a 
large  tree,  and  addressed  myself,  for  a  short  time,  to  eight  or  ten  persons. 
On  taking  my  leave  of  this  little  audience,  I  was  again,  in  the  same 
friendly  manner  as  before,  furnished  with  a  guide  to  the  next  village, 
called  Adda.  There  I  called  on  the  Pattell  as  at  Tamboor,  was  received 
in  the  same  friendly  manner,  and  within  a  few  minutes  after  I  reached 
the  place,  I  was  seated  in  the  midst  of  not  less  than  70  Hindoos.  I  dis 
coursed  to  them  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  They  were  very  at 
tentive;  and  their  whole  appearance  was  very  interesting  and  encourag 
ing  to  my  feelings.  At  the  conclusion  of  my  discourse,  1  addressed 
them,  as  I  had  previously  addressed  several  other  like  assemblies,  nearly 
in  these  terms;  "My  friends,  I  have  come  to  you  in  the  name  of  God 
your  Maker.  1  have  come  with  a  message  from  Him  to  you.  I  have 
delivered  his  message  to  you.  You  have  heard  it.  It  is  his  word,  and 
not  mine.  I  never  saw  you  before,  and  I  know  not  that  I  shall  ever  see 
you  again  until  the  day  of  judgment. — Such  a  day  is  coming,  when  the 
one  only  true  God  will  assemble  all  men  before  him,  arid  judge  and  re 
ward  all  men  according  to  their  works.  Then  I  must  give  an  account 
to  God  of  the  manner,  in  which  I  have  this  day  delivered  his  holy  mes 
sage  to  you;  and  you  also  must  give  an  account  to  God  of  the  manner  in 
which  you  have  received,  and  shall  have  treated  his  gracious  message  of 
saving  love.  He  is  now  looking  into  our  hearts,  observes  all  our  actions, 
and  knows  all  things.  Oh  prepare  for  that  awful  day.  Fear  and  worship 
and  serve  the  true  God,  your  Maker,  and  your  Judge.  Repent  and  for 
sake  your  sins.  Believe  in  Jesus  Christ;  obey  his  gospel.  No  more 


1820.  REPORT.  261 

worship  your  vain  idols,  which  are  an  abomination  to  God.  Let  this 
sink  into  your  hearts.  Regard  it,  and  it  surely  shall  be  well  with  you  in 
life — well  with  you  in  death — well  with  you  in  judgment — well  with  you 
in  eternity." 

"The  idea  of  being  called  to  judgment  seemed  considerably  to  affect 
them.  Several  spoke  out  aloud,  "We  will  no  more  worship  idols,  we  will 
worship  only  the  one  true  God,  as  you  have  told  us."  They  asked  when 
I  should  come  to  them  again,  and  expressed  many  strong  wishes,  that  I 
should  soon  make  them  another  visit.  I  was  told,  that  not  one  person 
belonging  to  the  village  could  read.  There  was  present  a  young  man 
from  Panwell,  who  acted  in  the  capacity  of  a  writer  in  the  village,  who 
could  read.  I  gave  him  books,  which  he  promised  to  read  to  the  people. 
This  village,  like  each  of  the  others  which  I  visited  to-day,  did  not, 
as  I  was  informed,  contain  a  single  brarnhun.  Wherever  we  find  the 
people  removed  from  the  bramhuns,  they  seem  more  accessible  and 
more  attentive;  and  the  prospect  of  winning  souls  to  Christ  seems  the 
greatest. 

"Leaving  the  village  of  Adda,  I  returned  to  Panwell,  having  made  a 
circuit,  as  nearly  as  I  could  judge,  of  seven  or  eight  miles,  the  greater  part 
of  which  was  performed  in  the  hottest  hours  of  the  day.  I  was  extremely 
fatigued;  but  know  not,  that  I  ever  spent  a  day  more  agreeably  to  my 
feelings  and  wishes." 

The  next  are  passages  from  the  Journal  of  Mr.  Nichols  at  Tannah. 

"September  20.  Brother  Graves  and  myself  have  determined  on  a  tour 
of  10  or  12  days,  Providence  permitting,  though  it  will  be  attended  with 
much  fatigue  and  danger,  on  account  of  the  season. 

"30.  Have  just  returned  from  our  tour.  Went  to  Cullian  by  water, 
and  passed  an  uncomfortable  night  on  board  the  boat.  Visited  the  school, 
and  found  many  things  in  it  to  correct.  Brother  G.  addressed  many  peo 
ple,  and  encountered  one  angry  bramhun.  We  tarried  two  days  in  that 
place.  Went  to  Bhewndy,  seven  miles  from  Cullian,  where  we  distribut 
ed  many  books,  and  our  whole  stock  was  soon  nearly  exhausted.  None, 
that  we  know  of,  had  been  distributed  in  the  place  before.  A  detachment 
of  the  native  army  under  European  officers  were  cantoned  there.  We 
were  treated  with  much  attention  by  the  officers.  It  is  impossible  for 
one,  who  has  always  lived  in  our  free  country,  to  conceive  with  what 
strictness  all  white  people  are  here  noticed  by  the  police  and  the  army. 
We  cannot  set  our  foot  on  the  continent  without  a  formal  passport. 

"Left  Bhewndy  on  the  24th  and  proceeded  about  3  miles  to  a  village 
on  our  way  to  Basseen.  After  addressing  the  villagers,  we  retired  to  rest  in 
an  open  veranda.  The  Hindoos  have  neither  chairs,  tables,  nor  beds 
Of  course,  whoever  travels  among  them  must  sit  on  the  ground,  eat  on 
the  ground,  and  sleep  on  the  ground.  Our  journeying  from  village  to 
village  was  through  deep  mud,  long  grass,  and  water  sometimes  up  to  the 
middle.  To  wear  shoes  and  stockings  was  out  of  the  question,  though 
our  feet  suffered  much  from  the  stones  and  gravel.  With  bare  feet  we 
travelled  over  a  region  inhabited  by  tygers,  and  were  in  continual  danger 
from  serpents  which  might  be  concealed  in  the  long  grass.  On  the  even 
ing  of  the  25th  we  arrived  at  a  village,  where  we  spent  a  Sabbath  of  rest. 
Sabbath  evening,  before  we  had  retired  to  rest,  while  reclining  on  a  mat 
in  an  open  veranda,  I  was  roused  by  a  serpent  crawling  over  my  feet; 


262  REPORT.  1820. 

and,  before  I 'could  speak,  it  was  under  the  feet  of  brother  G.  Through 
mercy  we  were  not  bitten.  The  serpent  was  killed  before  the  door.  We 
doubt  not  that  it  was  poisonous,  though  not  of  the  most  venomous  kind. 
There  is  a  species  of  serpent  very  common  here,  whose  bite  causes  death 
in  5  or  10  minutes,  and  for  which  the  natives  know  of  no  remedy.  Just 
as  we  had  crossed  the  river  atCullian,  we  came  near  treading  on  a  horned 
viper.  From  the  above  mentioned  place,  we  embarked  in  a  large  canoe 
for  Basseen,  finding  it  so  exceedingly  uncomfortable  to  proceed  further 
by  land.  Arrived  at  Basseen  after  a  tedious  day  on  the  water.  We  are 
much  affected  with  the  divine  goodness,  which  has  preserved  us  so  well, 
when  so  much  exposed. 

"We  were  both  delighted  with  the  fine  order  in  which  we  found  the 
school  at  Bassen.  There  is  a  greater  number  of  expert  readers  and 
writers  in  this  school  than  in  any  one,  which  I  have  seen  in  this  country. 
The  days  we  spent  at  this  place  being  holidays,  the  people  gave  little 
attention  to  the  Gospel.  However,  brother  G.  addressed  two  or  three  large 
companies.  We  gave  away  the  remainder  of  our  books. 

"The  institutions  of  idolatry  are  very  flourishing  at  this  place.  Satan 
has  laughed  to  scorn  that  kind  of  Christianity  which  was  set  up  with  so 
much  pomp  by  the  Portuguese,  and  fortified  his  own  kingdom  with  double 
strength.  Returning  to  Tannah  in  a  boat  with  several  passengers,  broth 
er  G.  spoke  largely  on  the  gospel  plan  of  salvation;  but  the  whole  of 
it  was  declared  to  be  a  hard  saying,  which  Hindoos  never  could  nor 
would  hear. 

"On  the  whole,  our  tour  has  been  interesting,  but  hazardous.  Many 
have  heard  what  they  never  heard  before,  but  God  alone  can  make  his 
own  word  effectual.  During  our  absence,  divine  goodness  has  been 
richly  extended  to  our  dear  companions,  and  our  little  ones,  as  well  as  to 
ourselves." 

A  brief  passage  or  two,  from  the  Journal  of  Mr.  Graves  at  Mahim,  will 
close  these  extracts. 

"Sabbath,  5.  Met  with  several  Jews.  Had  much  conversation  with 
them  respecting  the  time  of  the  Messiah's  coming,  and  the  claims  of  Jesus 
to  the  Messiahship.  They  were  neither  prepared  nor  inclined  to  contra 
dict  rny  reasoning.  The  misery  of  their  state  is  their  extreme  ignorance 
and  carelessness  respecting  the  Messiah.  One  of  them,  however,  said, 
that  some  of  his  people  regarded  the  late  dreadful  earthquakes  as  betoken 
ing  the  near  approach  of  the  Messiah.  He  had  also  inquired  of  a  certain 
Jew,  who  informed  him,  that  when  the  world  ended  then  the  Messiah 
would  come.  I  told  them  he  would  indeed  come  a  second  time  ere  long 
to  judge  the  world,  and  it  became  them  to  prepare  to  meet  him. 

"Sept.  30.  Returned  from  Tannah  from  which  place  I  had  travelled 
with  brother  Nichols,  having  spent  nine  days  in  a  tour  to  Cullian  and 
Basseen.  At  Cullian  and  Bhewndy  from  20  to  100,  or  150  and  200  at 
tended  our  addresses,  and  we  were  interrupted  very  little  while  attempt 
ing  to  publish  the  words  of  life.  From  Cullian  by  Bhewndy  we  travelled 
about  20  miles  on  foot.  We  invited  the  people  in  the  several  villages, 
through  which  we  passed,  to  come  together  and  hear  the  way  of  salvation. 
And  they  commonly  collected  in  numbers  proportioned  to  the  size  of  the 
village,  and  heard  with  a  silent  attention,  or  made  such  inquiries  as  were 
generally  quite  appropriate.  They  behaved  also  with  much  propriety 


1820.  REPORT.  263 

while,  as  we  parted  from  them,  they  were  commended  to  the  mercy  of 
God  in  Christ  Jesus  by  prayer. 

"There  being  much  rain  and  very  deep  water,  through  which  we  were 
obliged  to  pass  on  foot,  we  judged  it  advisable  to  go  the  remainder  of  our 
way  to  Basseen  by  a  boat.  In  the  latter  place  also  we  had  many  interest 
ing  opportunities  of  addressing  the  people,  and  in  all  the  places  distribut 
ed  a  number  of  tracts.  While  on  our  way  we  had  favorable  and  pleasant 
seasons  of  attempting  to  publish  the  gospel  to  the  boatmen  and  passen 
gers.  As  we  spent  one  night  on  board  with  25  or  30  men,  they  all 
decently  attended,  while  the  protection  and  blessing  of  God  were  request 
ed  through  the  name  of  Jesus." 

THE  TRANSLATING  OF  THE  SCRIPTURES,  early  engaged  the  attention 
of  Messrs.  Hall  and  Newell.  That  the  Scriptures  in  the  vernacular  lan 
guage  of  the  people  would  be  of  essential  importance  to  the  great  object 
of  the  mission,  must  be  evident  to  every  mind.  To  the  missionaries  it 
was  most  palpable.  And  scarcely  less  palpable  were  the  evils  of  a  bad 
translation,  in  its  effects  upon  the  minds  of  the  people,  in  the  embarrass 
ment  it  would  occasion  to  missionaries,  and  in  the  waste  and  loss  of  time 
and  money. 

"It  would  seem,"  they  say,  in  a  paper  upon  the  general  subject,  of 
which  mention  was  made  in  the  Report  of  1816, — "It  would  seem  to  be 
a  self  evident  principle,  that  no  person  can  translate  correctly  into  any 
language,  which  he  does  not  understand  as  well,  or  nearly  as  well,  as  his 
mother  tongue;  and  it  seems  to  be  no  less  evident,  that  no  person  can 
understand  a  foreign  language  as  well,  or  nearly  as  well,  as  his  mother 
tongue,  without  residing  at  least  a  number  of  years  in  the  country  where 
that  language  is  vernacular,  and  conversing  habitually  with  all  kinds  of 
people  who  speak  the  language. 

"The  language  of  books,  in  every  country,  is  rather  above  the  ready 
comprehension  of  the  common  people.  But  in  the  east,  where  instruc 
tion  is  limited  to  the  few,  while  the  pride  of  learning  leads  those  who 
possess  it  to  affect,  in  their  language  and  compositions,  a  style  of  studied 
superiority,  the  language  of  books  becomes  nearly  as  unintelligible  to  the 
common  people,  as  Latin  is  to  the  unlearned  in  Europe  and  America. 
Now  those  translators,  who  have  never  been  in  the  countries,  where  the 
languages,  into  which  they  translate,  are  vernacular,  must  have  acquired 
their  knowledge  of  the  languages  principally  from  books;  and  their  trans 
lations,  of  course,  will  be  in  the  book  style,  and  not  in  the  popular  dialect. 
Hence  such  translations,  it  would  seem,  can  be  of  little  if  any  use  to  the 
great  body  of  the  people,  for  whom  they  are  designed." 

This  is  sensibly  said;  and  it  might  have  been  added,  that,  for  a  good 
translation,  not  only  is  a  lengthened  residence  among  the  people  neces 
sary;  and  a  free  intercourse  with  them;  but  also  the  practice  of  preach 
ing  to  them,  expounding  to  them  the  Scriptures  and  conversing  with  them 
familiarly  on  divine  subjects.  And  it  has  become  a  well  known  fact,  that 
some  of  the  translations  of  the  present  age,  hastily  made  without  these 
advantages,  have  proved  unintelligible  and  useless  to  the  people,  for  whose 
benefit  they  were  intended. 

Under  these  impressions,  in  a  letter  which  accompanied  the  paper  just 
cited,  the  missionaries  say; 

"We  consider  it  our  duty,  if  God  should  spare  our  lives  long  enough, 


264  REPORT.  1820. 

to  attempt  a  translation  of  the  Bible,  in  the  Mahratta  language,  which  is 
vernacular  here,  and  is  spoken  by  many  millions  of  people  on  this  side  of 
India.  And  if  we,  with  the  aid  of  others,  who,  we  hope,  will  shortly 
come  to  our  assistance,  are  enabled,  in  the  course  of  our  lives,  to  make  a 
good  translation  of  the  sacred  volume,  into  this,  one  language,  in  addition 
to  preaching  the  Gospel  daily  to  the  heathen,  (which  we  consider  the 
principal  business  of  a  missionary,)  we  shall  think  that  we  have  not  labor 
ed  in  vain,  nor  spent  our  strength  for  nought." 

Such  were  the  feelings  and  views  with  which,  about  five  years  ago, 
they  commenced  the  arduous  and  responsible  undertaking;  and  in  accord 
ance  with  them  is  the  manner,  in  which,  as  your  Committee  believe,  the 
work  has  been  prosecuted. 

At  first  they  took  care,  that  portions  of  the  Scriptures,  which  they  had 
translated,  should  be  perused  in  manuscript,  by  learned  and  by  unlearned- 
natives;  and  then  ascertained  how  these  portions  were  understood.  As 
soon  as  they  got  their  printing  press  into  operation,  they  began  to  print 
select  passages,  and  to  distribute  them  among  the  people,  and  use  them 
in  their  schools.  In  this  practice  they  have  ever  since  continued;  and 
the  advantages  it  must  have  afforded  them  for  revising  and  correcting, 
and  making  their  translation  in  all  respects  what  it  ought  to  be,  will  be 
obvious  to  every  mind. 

More  than  a  year  ago,  they  had  translated  the  whole  of  the  New  Testa 
ment  and  a  considerable  part  of  the  Old;  and  they  are  by  this  time  pre 
pared  for  printing  and  distributing  the  Scriptures  in  part,  or  in  whole, 
as  soon  and  as  fast  as  means  for  defraying  the  expense  shall  be  afforded 
to  them,  and  a  due  attention  to  the  other  departments  of  their  general 
work  will  admit.  They  have  labored  in  this  department  with  indefatiga 
ble  diligence. 

Besides  the  great  work  of  translating  the  Scriptures,  they  have  com 
posed,  compiled,  and  translated  several  tracts  and  school  books,  and  some 
of  them  such  as  must  have  cost  no  inconsiderable  time  and  labor. 

Another  part  of  their  work,  in  which  they  have  shewn  the  same  exem 
plary  industry,  is  PRINTING.  As  soon  almost  as  they  entered  upon  active 
operations,  they  began  to  feel  the  want  of  a  printing  press.  Not  only 
were  they  without  Bibles,  tracts,  and  school  books,  for  the  various  purposes 
of  the  mission;  but  there  were  none  to  be  obtained.  There  was  not  even 
a  press  with  the  Nagree  type,  the  proper  character  for  the  native  language, 
within  a  thousand  miles  of  them.  Measures  were  accordingly  taken  for 
a  printing  establishment.  With  a  view  to  it,  Mr.  Bardvvell  acquired  some 
knowledge  of  the  printing  business  before  he  was  sent  out;  and  about  the 
time  of  his  arrival,  a  press,  with  a  fount  of  Nagree  types,  which  had  been 
engaged,  was  received  from  Calcutta.  No  time  was  lost  in  putting  it  into 
operation,  and  early  in  March,  1817,  they  finished  the  printing  of  fifteen 
hundred  copies  of  a  Scripture  Tract  of  eight  pages,  executed  almost 
entirely  with  their  own  hands. 

In  their  first  attempt,  they  had  many  and  great  difficulties  to  overcome, 
but  they  have  since  proceeded  in  this  part  of  their  work  with  facility  and 
despatch.  At  the  date  of  their  last  joint  communication,  in  the  fore  part 
of  January  last,  they  had  printed,  besides  the  tract  now  mentioned,  the 
Gospel  of  Matthew,  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles,  and  two  Tracts,  consist 
ing  chiefly  of  select  portions  of  Scripture,  all  in  large  editions;  three 


1820.  REPORT.  265 

editions,  1000  copies  each,  of  a  Tract  composed  by  themselves,  entitled 
The  way  to  Heaven;  another  Tract  entitled  The  Compassion  of  C/irist 
towards  sinful  man;  the  First  Number  of  a  work,  which  they  have  begun, 
giving  a  succinct  view  of  Scripture  History;  the  Book  of  Genesis;  the 
Gospel  of  John;  a  Catechism,  designed  especially  for  the  use  of  schools; 
a  Reading  Book,  also  for  the  schools;  An  easy  and  expeditious  method 
of  acquiring  a  Knowledge  of  the  English  Language,  designed  for  the  bene- 
Jit  of  those  Natives  who  wish  to  study  English  and  the  Sciences;  another 
School  Book;  and  were  preparing  to  print  the  Epistles  of  James,  Peter, 
John,  and  Jude.  Besides  these  for  the  mission,  they  had  printed  an  edi 
tion  of  the  Gospel  of  Matthew  for  the  Bombay  Bible  Society;  and  Christ's 
Sermon  on  the  Mount,  partly  for  that  Society,  and  partly  for  the  mission. 
Thus  much,  amidst  all  their  other  labors,  they  had  accomplished  with 
their  press,  in  little  more  than  two  years. 

THE  EDUCATION  OF  NATIVE  CHILDREN  is  an  object,  on  which  these 
missionaries  have  bestowed  very  earnest  and  laborious  attention.  Their 
first  free  school  was  commenced  in  the  summer  of  1815,  and  in  our  last 
annual  Report  the  number  of  their  schools  was  stated  to  be  twenty-five, 
and  the  total  of  pupils  was  estimated,  from  'communications  which  had 
then  been  received,  at  nearly  a  hundred  Jewish,  and  more  than  twelve 
hundred  heathen  children.  In  their  joint  letter,  thirteen  months  ago,  the 
account  is  more  exact,  and  the  total  number  enrolled  in  their  schools,  as 
regular  pupils,  is  given  at  1,019.  Besides  these,  there  are  large  numbers 
of  inconstant  and  less  regular  attendants.  What  additions  have  been 
made  to  the  number  of  the  schools  or  of  the  pupils,  in  the  last  thirteen 
months,  your  Committee  have  not  yet  the  means  of  reporting.  In  their 
last  joint  letter  the  missionaries  say,  "Applications  for  new  schools  are 
very  frequent."  But  their  funds  were  not  sufficient  to  answer  either  the 
necessities  of  the  people,  or  their  own  benevolent  desires.  But  the  field 
is  wide  and  the  harvest  is  most  plenteous;  and  this  Board  and  the  Chris 
tian  community  may  be  assured,  that  if  sufficient  funds  are  afforded  to 
those  faithful  and  energetic  laborers,  few  as  they  are,  within  less 
than  five  years  to  come  they  will  number  in  their  schools  ten  thousand 
pupils. 

"In  all  the  schools,"  they  say,  "those  who  can  read,  are  daily  employed 
in  reading  or  committing  to  memory  some  portions  of  the  Scriptures  or 
tracts  which  we  have  printed."  "We  occasionally  pray  in  the  schools, 
and  instruct  them  with  our  own  lips."  In  various  respects  indeed,  their 
schools  afford  them  very  important  advantages  for  the  benevolent  purposes 
of  the  mission.  In  them  they  have  access,  at  all  times,  to  many  young 
and  susceptible  minds,  undef  circumstances  eminently  favorable  for  deep 
and  salutary  impression;  through  them,  they  find,  also,  the  best  avenues 
to  the  minds  and  hearts  of  the  parents  and  connexions  of  the  pupils,  and 
by  means  of  them,  they  have  great  facilities,  in  their  visiting  and 
preaching  circuits,  for  distributing  the  Scriptures,  or  portions  of  the 
Scriptures,  and  their  different  tracts,  with  the  fairest  hope  of  their  being 
attentively  read. 

The  extreme  difficulty  of  obtaining  children  to   be  educated   in   their 

families,  was  stated  and  explained  in  the  Report  of  the  last  year.     "The 

natives,"  they  say,   "have  not  forgotten  the  violence   practised  on   them 

and  their   religion   by  the  Portuguese;    and   their   jealousies   are  ever 

34 


266  REPORT.  1820. 

awake.  Indeed,  it  is  matter  of  astonishment  to  us,  that  we  have  been 
permitted  to  proceed  so  quietly  with  our  schools  and  our  daily  instruc 
tion." 

Mr.  Hall,  however,  has  taken  into  his  family,  and  under  his  own  spe 
cial  care  and  instruction,  two  African  children;  and  Mr.  Bardwell  two 
Portuguese  children.  They  were  miserable  outcasts;  objects  of  compas 
sion,  as  really  as  the  Hindoo  children,  and  as  suitable  for  charitable  and 
Christian  education.  And  of  such  as  these,  many,  it  is  supposed,  might 
be  obtained. 

It  is  also  particularly  gratifying  to  state,  that  at  Salsette  the  difficulty 
of  obtaining  Hindoo  children  for  family  instruction,  is  found  to  be  not  so 
insuperable  as  at  Bombay.  As  soon  as  they  were  comfortably  settled, 
and  tolerably  acquainted  with  the  native  language,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Nichols 
"resolved  on  using  every  effort  to  establish  a  school  in  their  house." — In 
his  Journal,  May  17,  1819,  Mr.  Nichols  says. 

"Our  family  school  of  Hindoo  boys  is  increasing:  it  is  to  us  a  most  in 
teresting  charge;  they  spend  almost  the  whole  day  with  us,  and  are  made 
apparently  happy  by  our  familiarity.  We  instruct  these  dear  boys  in  the 
most  familiar  manner,  in  the  leading  truths  of  Christianity.  Several  of 
them  can  repeat  the  commandments  from  memory,  and  also  a  hymn.  We 
have  taught  the  boys  to  sing  this  hymn;  and  I  doubt  not  our  beloved 
patrons  and  friends  would  be  delighted  to  hear  their  sweet  voices  accom 
panying  ours,  as  a  part  of  our  morning  service.  Abraham  a  Jew,  and 
Peteya  a  Hindoo,  on  account  of  their  even  temper  and  pleasant  disposi 
tion,  have  become  as  dear  to  us  as  our  own  child.  They  were  the  first, 
that  came  to  us.  Daoojee,  another  Hindoo,  and  Balajee,  a  Jew,  are  boys 
of  as  fine  talents,  as  we  ever  met  with  in  America.  Bha-oo,  another 
Hindoo  boy,  whom  we  loved  on  account  of  his  open  manners  and  friendly 
disposition,  has  been  taken  from  us  by  his  uncle,  lest  we  should  make  him 
a  Christian." 

In  a  letter,  dated  Feb.  12,  1820,  Mr.  N.  says  further,  "Our  family 
school  of  Hindoo  and  black  Jewish  boys  affords  us  much  satisfaction. 
We  have  nine  under  our  care.  We  are  endeavoring,  in  the  tenderest 
manner  possible,  to  detach  them  from  the  idolatry  and  wickedness  of  their 
fathers.  Their  improvement  is  very  laudable." 

It  is  still  the  great  trial  of  these  devoted  laborious  servants  of  the  Lord, 
to  spend  their  strength  in  a  field,  on  which  there  is  scarcely  rain  or  dew 
from  on  high;  and  where  the  harvest,  from  the  seed  which  they  sow,  is 
hardly  to  be  expected  before  they  are  called  to  rest  from  their  'labors. 
But  the  seed  must  be  sown,  or  there  will  never  be  a  harvest.  To  sow 
is  the  work,  the  duty,  and  the  privilege  of  men;  to  give  the  increase, 
and  the  joy  of  harvest,  is  the  work,  the  prerogative,  and  the  glory  of 
God. 

Your  Committee,  however,  have  the  satisfaction  gratefully  to  an 
nounce  one  hopeful  and  interesting  convert  by  the  instrumentality  of  this 
mission. 

In  a  letter  of  March  1819,  Mr.  Newell  writes  thus: — 

"I  have  had,  for  some  days  past,  a  Nicodemus  to  instruct,  Mohammed 
Kadin,  of  Hydrabad.*  He  came  about  a  month  ago  to  receive,  as  he 

*  This  city  is  in  the  province  of  Golconda,  nearly  due  east  of  Bombay. 


1820.  REPORT.  267 

says,  Christian  baptism.     He  is  a  Mussulman  of  high  rank,  and  came 
down  with  a  train  of  20  men.     He  has  sent  them  all  back,  and  lives  here 
in  retirement,  and  does  not  wish  to  be  known.     He  has   been   with  me 
every  day  for  more  than  a  week  past,  but  desires  the  object  of  our  con 
ferences  to  be  kept  a  secret  for  the  present.     He  has  stated  to  me  his 
object  in  conversation,  and  has  put  into  my  hands  a  paper   in  Hindoosta- 
nee,  which  is  certainly  a  very  curious  and  interesting  one." 
In  a  letter  about  two  months  after,  Mr.  Newell  says  further: 
"In  March  last,  I  mentioned  to  you  a  Mussulman  inquirer  from  Hydra- 
bad,  and  promised  to  give  you  a  more  particular  account  of  him  by  the 
next  opportunity.     He  is  still  in  Bombay  and  has  been  with  me,  and  has 
eaten  at  my  house  the  most  of  the  time,  since  the  date  of  my  last  letter  to 
you.     He  states,  that  his  sole  object  in   coming   from  Hydrabad  to  this 
place,  (a  distance  of  more  than  400  miles,)  was  to  gain  further  instruction 
in  the  Christian  religion,  and  to  receive  baptism.     He  says  that  he  is  of 
a  very  respectable  family,  and  of  high  standing  in  his  own  country;  and 
his  personal  appearance,  and  comparatively  extensive  information,  agree 
perfectly  well  with  his  own  account  of  himself.     I  put  into  his  hands 
Mr.  Martyn's  Hindoostanee  translation  of  the  New  Testament,  and  of 
the  common  Prayer  Book,  and  pointed  him  to  such  places,  as  I  thought 
would  be  most  useful  to  him.     I  have  repeatedly  read   and   explained  to 
him,  the  third  chapter  of  the  Gospel  of  John.     He  assents  to  the  necessity 
of  a  spiritual  change,  but  does  not  profess  to  have  any  experimental  knowl 
edge  of  it,  and  seems  to  be  more  inquisitive  about  the  forms  and  the  his 
tory  of  Christianity,  than  about  its  spiritual   and  practical  part.     I  once 
asked  him  whether  he  now  read  the  Koran,  and  worshipped  in  the  Musjd.* 
He  replied  that  he  had  not  done  either,  for   a  long  time.     I  asked  him, 
what  he  now  thought  of  his  former  religion. — He  said   he  thought  it  was 
right  for  him  to  live  as  a  Mussulman,  while  he  continued  in  that  faith; 
but  that,  becoming  a  Christian,  it  was  no  longer  right  for  him  to  live  as  a 
Mussulman.     This  is  a  specimen  of  the  state  of  his  mind,  as  to  religious 
knowledge." 

In  their  joint  letter  of  January  last,  the  brethren  write; 
"On  the  25th  of  September  last,  the  Mussulman  Kadin  Yar  Khan 
was  baptized.     We  indulge  the  hope,  that  he  is  truly  born  of  God:  if  so, 
may  the  glory  be  given  to  whom  alone  it  is  due.     We  have  employed 
him  some  as  a  Hindoostanee   teacher;  and   as  opportunity  presents,  he 
recommends,  both  by  argument  and   example,  the  religion  of  Jesus  to 
others.     He  was  very  willing  to  change  his  name  and  his  dress,  and  to 
cut  off  his  beard.     But  as  such  a  change  appeared  inexpedient  to  us,  he 
is  not  distinguished,  in  these  respects,  from  a  Mussulman." 
A  little  later  is  this  brief  notice  from  Mr.  Nichols: 
"Our  new  convert  is  now  with  us.     His  walk  and  his  conversation  are 
truly  encouraging." 

In  the  close  of  their  last  joint  letter  the  missionaries  thus  express  the 
state  of  their  feelings. 

"As  messengers  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  from  the  Board,  and  the 
churches,  we  assure  them,  that  we  are  not  at  all  disheartened;  but  live 
in  the  pleasing  anticipation  that  God  will  ultimately  bless  our  poor  labors 

*  Mosque  or  temple. 


268  HEPORT.  1820. 

to  the  salvation  of  many  souls,  and  we  hope  the  reception  of  one  is  but  a 
token  of  an  approaching  harvest  to  be  gathered  in.  Surely  the  word  of 
God  will  not  return  void;  arid  we  would  never  slacken  our  hands  in  the 
dispensation  of  it.  And  oh,  may  we  have  more  faith  and  zeal  and  pa 
tience,  that  we  may  be  so  blessed  as  to  gather  fruit  unto  eternal  life." 

MISSION  IN  THE  ISLAND  OF  CEYLON. — On  behalf  of  Messrs.  Wins- 
low,  Spaulding,  Woodward,  and  Scudder,  mentioned  in  the  report  of  the 
last  year,  as  having  embarked  on  the  8th  of  the  preceding  June,  there  is 
reason  for  great  thankfulness  to  the  Supreme  Disposer.  The  vessel  was 
not  indeed  in  season  to  touch  at  Ceylon,  and  leave  the  missionaries  there, 
as  it  was  hoped  she  might,  on  her  way  to  Calcutta;  but  at  the  latter  place, 
the  port  of  her  destination,  she  arrived,  all  on  board  being  well,  about  the 
middle  of  October.  "Though  our  passage/'  they  say  in  their  first  letter, 
"has  been  longer  than  we  hoped  it  would  be,  it  has  been  much  more 
pleasant  than  we  anticipated.  On  the  whole,  our  sea  has  been  smooth, 
our  accommodations  good,  and  our  long  passage  the  journey  of  a  day." 

Their  time,  during  the  passage,  as  there  is  good  reason  to  believe,  was 
not  spent  in  vain. 

"Soon  after  we  began  to  recover  from  sickness,"  they  say,  <;we  agreed, 
in  addition  to  our  morning  and  evening  devotions,  and  public  worship  for 
the  Sabbath,  to  meet  on  Tuesday  for  improvement  in  singing;  on  Wed 
nesday  evening  for  a  public  conference  in  the  cabin;  on  Friday  for  prayer 
and  free  remarks  on  experimental  religion,  or  any  impropriety  seen  in 
the  conduct  of  each  other;  and  on  Saturday  for  reading  the  public  jour 
nal  and  for  prayer.  We  have  also  observed  the  monthly  concert.  In 
the  course  of  our  voyage,  we  have  set  apart  two  days,  as  seasons  of  fast 
ing  and  prayer,  and  two  for  seasons  of  thanksgiving.  Other  meetings 
for  prayer  have  been  frequent. 

"Our  labors  among  the  seamen  have  been  considerable.  The  partic 
ulars  you  will  find  in  our  public  journal.  We  only  remark  here,  that  we 
are  not  left  to  mourn  that  we  have  labored  in  vain,  but  are  called  to  re 
joice,  that  the  pleasure  of  the  Lord  has  prospered  in  our  hands. 

"Of  Capt.  Wills  we  have  reason  to  speak  with  much  gratitude.  He  is 
a  Christian  brother  dear  to  us.  From  him  we  have  had  many  favors,  to 
render  our  situation  agreeable  and  our  passage  pleasant.  We  shall  ever 
remember  him  with  affection.  The  other  officers  have  been  obliging. 
The  seamen  have  treated  us  with  great  respect,  and  listened  to  our  in 
structions  with  much  attention." 

In  a  subsequent  letter,  written  just  as  they  were  leaving  Calcutta, 
nearly  a  month  after  the  first,  they  say: — 

"All  the  seamen  on  board  were  impressed,  and  we  did  hope  that  every 
one  had  become  the  subject  of  renewing  £race.  After  our  arrival  at 
Calcutta,  some  to  our  grief,  did  not  maintain  a  consistent  Christian  char 
acter;  and  though  with  the  exception  of  one,  who  left  the  vessel  in  a 
singular  manner,  and  perhaps  two  more,  who  appear  to  a  considerable 
degree  hardened,  the  remainder  shew  signs  of  repentance,  we  are  con 
strained  to  stand  in  doubt  of  some.  We  hope,  indeed,  that  a  removal 
from  the  incitements  of  a  wicked  city,  and  being  again  at  sea,  when 
there  will  be  opportunity  for  serious  reflection,  will  bring  all  to  remember 
whence  they  have  fallen,  and  to  repent.  This  we  are  encouraged  to  hope, 


1820.  REPORT.  C2L 

from  the  manner  in  which  they  parted  from  us  last  evening,  all  being 
very  much  affected,  and  sorrowing  that  they  should  see  our  faces  no 
more.  But  we  commit  them  to  the  protection  of  him  who  is  able  to  keep 
them  from  falling. 

By  the  particular  and  full  account  given  by  the  missionaries  in  their 
letters  and  journal,  and  most  amply  confirmed  by  the  testimony  of  the 
highly  and  justly  beloved  and  respected  captain,  and  of  the  officers  and 
men  generally,  it  is  placed  beyond  doubt,  that  the  abundant  and  faithful 
instructions  and  warnings  given  to  the  seamen,  were  efficacious  in  an. 
extraordinary  measure.  The  seriousness,  which  began  with  a  few,  be 
came  general;  and  for  a  considerable  time  before  their  arrival,  the  im 
pression  upon  the  whole  company  was  most  solemn  and  most  profound. 
From  all  that  is  known  since  the  return  of  the  vessel,  it  is  most  fully 
believed,  that  the  Lord,  in  very  deed,  was  with  the  missionaries,  and  that 
few  instances  are  on  record,  in  which  the  power  of  his  grace  was  more 
manifest,  or  those  within  its  influence  in  greater  proportion  evidently 
reformed,  and  hopefully  renewed  for  immortality  and  glory. 

Of  what  befel  these  favored  brethren  at  Calcutta,  your  Committee  can 
not  give  a  better  account,  than  is  given  by  themselves,  in  the  letter  from 
which  the  last  quotation  was  made. 

"On  our  arrival  at  Calcutta,  we  thought  it  best  to  accept  a  kind  invi 
tation  from  Capt.  Wills,  to  take  a  part  of  his  house.  We  can  never  say 
too  much  concerning  the  kindness  of  this  dear  man;  nor  mention  the 
many  little  attentions,  which  contributed  to  render  our  passage  pleasant. 
During  our  stay  of  three  weeks  at  Calcutta,  he  not  only  provided  rooms 
for  us,  and  kept  us  all  at  his  table  free  of  expense,  but  in  various  ways 
contributed,  in  articles  of  necessity  and  convenience  for  our  mission,  not 
less  than  two  hundred  dollars;  beside  many  nameless  expenses,  incurred 
for  our  comfort  while  we  were  with  him.  By  his  exertions,  likewise,  and' 
those  of  Mr.  Ceyder,  an  American  resident  in  Calcutta,  whom  we  would 
mention  with  gratitude,  more  than  a  hundred  dollars  were  raised  for  us 
from  other  American  friends.  Mr.  Newton  too,  whose  name  is  probably 
familiar  to  you,  partly  by  his  means,  became  so  much  interested  for  us,, 
as  not  only  to  take  the  trouble  of  providing  for  us  a  passage  to  Ceylon,, 
but  in  connection  with  a  few  other  friends  of  missions,  to  contribute  five- 
hundred  dollars  towards  the  expense.  This  benevolent  gentleman,  with' 
Mrs.  Newton,  a  native  of  Pittsfield,  Mass.,  who  likewise  shewed  us  much 
kindness,  is  about  to  return  to  Boston. 

"At  Calcutta,  though  in  a  land  of  strangers,  we  found  ourselves  sur 
rounded  by  friends.  The  evening  after  our  arrival,  we  met  most  of  the 
Baptist  brethren,  of  whom  there  are  now  six  in  Calcutta,  (the  younger 
brethren,  who  were  at  Serampore,  having  separated  from  Drs.  Carey  and' 
Marshman,  and  established  themselves  in  Calcutta,)  all  the  brethren  from 
the  London  Society,  of  whom  there  are  four,  and  Mr.  Schmidt,  from  the 
Church  Missionary  Society.  We  enjoyed  with  them  a  precious  season-- 
of  prayer,  and  Christian  intercourse.  The  first  hymn  was  given  out  by 
Mr.  Townley,  of  the  London  Society: — "Kindred  in  Christ  for  Ms  dear 
sake, — a  hearty  welcome,  here  receive"  This,  we  believe,  expresses  the- 
real  feelings  of  those,  whom  we  met.  They  are  precious  men,  and  are 
doing  a  good  work  in  Calcutta.  Their  moral  influence  is  already  felt, 
and  an  important  change  is  effected;  especially  as  to  the  treatment  of 


270  REPORT.  1820. 

missionaries.  This  was  seen  in  our  polite  reception  at  the  police  office, 
and  in  the  generosity  at  the  custom  house,  where  all  our  baggage,  to 
gether  with  the  boxes  of  medicine,  books,  &c.  belonging  to  the  Board, 
were  passed,  both  in  landing  and  re-shipping,  free  of  duty,  and  even  of 
inspection. 

"But  it  was  not  designed  that  we  should  leave  Calcutta  without  trials. 
We  had  been  there  but  five  days,  when  brother  Scudder  was  called  to 
part  with  his  dear  little  daughter.  She  died  of  an  illness  of  three  days. 
,The  next  day,  sister  Winslow  was  taken  sick,  and  brought  near  the  grave. 
The  woman  of  color  was  also  very  sick,  and  sister  Woodward  was  brought 
so  low,  that  her  life  was  almost  despaired  of,  and  we  were  obliged  to  leave 
her  and  her  husband  behind.  After  her  recovery  they  will  take  the 
earliest  opportunity  of  a  passage  to  Ceylon. 

"We  are  now  on  board  the  Dick,  of  London,  Capt.  Harrison,  a  pleas 
ant  ship,  with  good  accommodations;  and  are  to  be  landed  either  at  Trin- 
comalee,  or  Colombo,  as  we  please." 

It  was  a  painful  circumstance  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Woodward,  to  be  left 
behind;  and  before  the  Dick  had  got  far  down  the  river,  Mrs.  Woodward 
felt  herself  so  much  better,  that,  after  advising  with  her  physician,  they 
made  arrangements  for  attempting  to  overtake  the  ship.  But  just  at  the 
time,  their  infant  was  seized  with  severe  illness,  and  the  attempt  was 
relinquished.  In  the  fore  part  of  December,  they  embarked  in  a  brig, 
bound,  as  was  the  Dick,  to  Trincomalee,  and  Colombo. 

The  only  communication,  which  has  been  received  from  these  young 
brethren,  since  their  leaving  Calcutta,  is  contained  in  a  letter  from 
Messrs.  Winslow  and  Spaulding,  dated  Colombo,  Feb.  2d. 

'•'We  took  passage,"  they  say,  "for  Ceylon,  Nov.  10th,  in  a  good  ship, 
the  Dick  of  London,  and  had  only  to  regret  the  detention  of  brother 
Woodward  by  the  sickness  of  his  wife.  We  left  him  however,  with  the 
assurance,  that  though  in  a  land  of  strangers,  he  was  surrounded  by 
sympathizing  friends,  and  under  the  care  of  a  kind  Providence. 

"Our  passage  was  long,  but  pleasant.  By  the  kindness  of  our  captain, 
we  were  permitted  not  only  to  preach  on  the  Sabbath,  but  to  hold  meet 
ings  every  evening  with  the  seamen.  They  generally  gave  good  atten 
tion:  some  appeared  seriously  impressed;  and  we  left  the  ship  with  the 
hope,  that  two  at  least  were  under  deep  convictions.  We  made  the  island 
of  Ceylon.  19  days  after  embarking,  and  12  from  the  time  of  leaving  the 
river;  but  it  was  three  days  more  before  we  could  gain  the  harbor  of  Trin 
comalee,  being  carried  beyond  it  at  night  by  a  very  strong  current,  which 
exposed  us  to  some  danger  from  the  rocks  on  the  coast.  At  Trincoma 
lee  we  were  very  kindly  received  by  the  Wesleyan  brethren,  Messrs. 
Carver  and  Stead,  who  did  every  thing  in  their  power  to  assist  us. 

"We  hoped  to  find  some  method  of  direct  conveyance  from  this  port 
to  Jaffna;  but  as  the  monsoon  rendered  it  impossible  to  go  by  water,  there 
was  none  except  through  an  almost  trackless  jungle  of  130  miles,  in 
the  course  of  which  were  several  rivers  to  be  forded.  The  journey  we 
concluded  to  attempt;  but  on  endeavoring  to  procure  palankeens  and 
coolies,  we  found  they  could  not  be  obtained  for  so  many  travellers.  Our 
passage  was  paid  at  Colombo,  and  the  prospect  was,  that  we  could  find  a 
more  ready  conveyance  there,  than  from  any  other  port  on  the  island. 
Brother  Scudder,  however,  as  his  labors  seemed'  to  be  peculiarly  needed 


1820.  REPORT.  271 

at  Jaffna,  on  account  of  the  ill  health  of  our  brethren  there,  concluded 
to  attempt  the  journey  by  land.  With  some  difficulty  the  means  of  con 
veyance  were  found;  and  we  left  Trincomalee  after  a  stay  of  three  days, 
while  our  dear  brother  and  sister  were  preparing  to  go  through  the 
wilderness. 

"On  our  way  to  Colombo  we  touched  at  Galle,  a  very  pleasant  port  on 
the  southern  extremity  of  the  island,  and  were  detained  several  days. 
During  this  time,  we  were  most  hospitably  entertained,  in  the  family  of  a 
Mr.  McKenney,  a  Wesleyan  missionary;  and  our  hearts  were  cheered  by 
a  sight  of  the  good  work,  which  he  and  his  colleagues  are  there  carrying 
on.  The  schools,  which  form  the  glory  of  the  Wesleyan  missions  here, 
are  at  this  station  very  flourishing,  and  afford  an  interesting  spectacle. 

"We  finally  reached  Colombo,  Dec.  20th,  rejoicing  to  see  this  capital* 
of  the  country,  which  is  to  be  our  future  home.  The  Rev.  Mr.  Chater, 
who  is  well  known  as  the  very  kind  and  hospitable  friend  of  our  brethren, 
immediately  invited  us  to  his  house,  till  we  could  make  arrangements  for 
proceeding  to  Jaffna." 

After  mentioning  here  some  circumstances,  which  unavoidably  length 
ened  their  stay  at  Colombo,  and  stating,  that  they  were  to  go  thence  to 
Jaffna  in  company  with  that  very  valuable  friend  of  our  mission,  J.  N. 
Mooyart,  Esq.  they  proceed  to  say; — 

"We  are  now  to  start  to-morrow.  The  delay  we  have  regretted,  though 
our  situation  has  been  rendered  as  pleasant  as  it  could  be,  by  the  kindness 
of  those  around  us,  especially  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Chater,  to  whom  we  are 
deeply  indebted,  and  to  the  Wesleyan  brethren  at  this  station.  The  other 
friends  of  our  mission,  who  reside  at  this  place,  have  treated  us  with  atten 
tion  and  kindness. 

"We  had  the  pleasure  of  meeting  most  of  the  missionaries  on  the  island: 
the  Wesleyans  holding  their  annual  conference  here,  and  the  church 
missionaries  being  met  on  the  business  of  their  mission.  There  were 
yesterday  at  our  table  fifteen  missionaries;  such  a  thing  as  probably 
never  was  seen  at  Colombo  before.  The  church  missionaries  are  regu 
larly  with  us  in  the  same  family.  They  are  most  valuable  men." — 

"Since  coming  here,  we  have  received  many  communications  from  the 
brethren  at  Jaffna.  They  are  still  afflicted  with  sickness.  Brother  Rich 
ards  is  better  than  it  was  expected  he  ever  would  be,  but  far  from  having 
any  prospect  of  final  recovery.  Brothers  Poor  and  Meigs  are  both  nearly 
laid  aside  by  sickness;  though  they  were  both  better  at  the  date  of  our 
last  accounts.  Brother  and  sister  Scudder  arrived  in  safety  to  their 
assistance  after  a  long  and  dangerous  journey.  He  seems  to  have  entered 
with  spirit  into  the  work.  You  will  have  learned  before  this,  that  the 
brethren  have  already  seen  some  fruit  of  their  labor — in  the  apparent 
conversion  of  several  among  the  natives." 

"We  have  to-day  heard  of  the  safe  arrival  of  our  brother  and  sister 
Woodward  at  Trincomalee.  The  Lord  has  afflicted  them,  since  we 
parted,  by  the  removal  of  their  little  son.  From  brother  and  sister  Scud 
der  we  heard  three  days  ago,  that  she  had  become  the  mother  of  a  fine 
little  girl;  and  to-day  we  have  the  sad  intelligence  of  its  death.  We  long 
to  see  and  sympathize  with  the  afflicted  parents." 

In  a  postscript,  bearing  date  Dec.  23d,  the  brethren  in  Jaffna  express 
their  feelings  as  follows: — 


272  REPORT.  1820. 

"As  cold  water  to  a  thirsty  soul,  so  is  good  news  from  a  far  country. 
On  the  first  Monday  in  the  month,  (a  joyful  day  to  missionaries,)  we  went 
to  Nellore,  to  unite  with  our  missionary  brethren  in  the  observance  of  the 
monthly  prayer  meeting.  On  our  arrival  at  the  mission  house  in  that 
place,  we  found  a  letter  containing  the  joyful  intelligence,  that  four 
American  missionaries  and  their  wives,  destined  to  Ceylon,  had  arrived 
at  Calcutta.  In  regard  to  some  of  the  important  petitions  which  we  were 
about  to  offer  at  the  prayer  meeting,  we  could  testify  to  the  truth  of  God's 
gracious  promise,  'And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  before  they  call  1  will 
answer,  and  while  they  are  yet  speaking,  I  will  hear.'  The  contents  of 
the  preceding  letter  will  give  you  a  better  idea  of  our  feelings  on  this 
occasion,  than  any  particular  description  of  them.  You  can  readily 
imagine,  in  some  degree,  what  effect  this  intelligence  must  have  had  upon 
our  minds,  as  we  entered  upon  the  pleasing  solemnities  of  the  day. 

"In  the  midst  of  our  services,  yea  'while  we  were  yet  speaking/  we 
were  interrupted  by  the  receipt  of  a  letter  from  a  kind  Wesleyan  brother 
at  Trincomalee,  informing  us  that  three  of  our  brethren  and  sisters  had 
arrived  at  that  place,  and  that  he  was  making  arrangements  for  some  of 
them  to  come  to  Jaffna  by  land.  This  information  gave  a  fresh  impulse 
to  our  feelings,  which  were  already  highly  excited.  Our  missionary  breth 
ren  present  were  partakers  of  our  joy,  and  could  unite  in  rendering 
thanksgiving  to  God,  both  on  our  account,  and  on  account  of  the  mission 
ary  cause  in  this  district. 

"Though  it  was  the  intention  of  our  brethren  to  come  from  Trinco 
malee  to  Jaffna  by  land,  they  found  it  to  be  impracticable.  Proper  convey 
ances  could  be  obtained  only  for  two  persons. 

"Brother  and  sister  Scudder  arrived  at  Tillipally  the  17th  instant,  to 
our  great  joy  and  comfort.  They  were  the  bearers  of  large  packages  of 
letters,  which  made  us  quite  ashamed  of  the  suspicions  we  had  indulged, 
that  our  American  friends  had  forgotten  us.  We  are  sorry  to  say,  that  a 
number  of  letters,  referred  to  in  those  we  have  now  received,  have  not 
reached  us;  and  we  fear  they  are  lost.  We  hope  our  friends  will  consider, 
that  the  possibility  of  some  of  their  letters  being  lost,  is  no  small  reason, 
which  should  induce  them  to  write  to  us  more  frequently ." 

A  private  letter  dated  in  Feb.  states,  that  Dr.  Scudder  arrived  at  the 
station  on  the  17th  of  Dec.  Mr.  Woodward  early  in  January,  and 
Messrs.  Winslow  and  Spaulding  just  before  the  date  of  the  letter. 

It  is  gratifying  to  your  Committee  to  state,  that  in  all  the  places  visited 
by  Messrs.  Winslow  and  Spaulding,  at  Trincomalee,  at  Galle,  and  at 
Colombo,  they  found  an  unanimous  sentiment  of  high  and  affectionate 
esteem  and  admiration  of  our  missionaries  in  Jaffna,  as  most  laborious, 
and  faithful,  and  devoted  men;  and,  which  cannot  be  stated  without  strong 
and  mingled  feelings,  a  general  and  deep  impression,  that  by  their  in 
creasing  efforts,  their  constant  self-denial,  their  readiness  to  spend,  and 
be  spent,  in  the  service,  they  were  fast  wearing  themselves  out; — and  that 
it  would  be  much  for  the  honor  of  American  Christians  to  afford  them  a 
more  liberal  patronage  and  more  ample  aid. 

It  will  be  recollected  that,  (as  was  mentioned  in  the  Report  of  1818,) 
soon  after  our  missionaries  in  Ceylon  first  entered  upon  their  work,  they 
felt  and  expressed  a  strong  desire  to  be  furnished,  as  speedily  as  possible, 
with  a  printing  establishment,  and  means  for  putting  it  into  vigorous 


1820.  REPORT.  273 

operation.  The  reasons  for  such  a  measure  appeared  to  be  solid  and 
urgent,  and  your  Committee  charged  themselves  with  the  care  of  answer 
ing  the  request.  It  was  hoped,  that  a  printer  would  go  out  with  the  mis 
sionaries,  who  went  a  year  ago;  but  that  hope  was  disappointed.  A 
printing  press,  however,  a  donation  from  a  most  liberal  friend  to  this 
Board,  and  to  its  objects,  having  been  previously  sent  by  the  way  of  Cal 
cutta,  a  fount  of  types  for  English  printing,  and  a  supply  of  paper  were 
added.  Types  for  the  Tamul,  the  native  language  of  the  principal  popu 
lation  of  that  part  of  Ceylon,  and  of  the  neighboring  districts  of  the  conti 
nent,  have  been  obtained  from  Calcutta.  And  your  Committee  have 
since  had  the  satisfaction  to  send  out  a  printer. 

Mr.  James  Garrett,  a  young  man  belonging  to  Utica,  N.  Y.  offered 
himself  for  the  service,  with  very  ample  testimonials,  as  to  his  abilities 
and  disposition  and  habits — his  moral  and  Christian  character — and  his 
qualifications  for  taking  charge  of  a  printing  establishment;  and  while  he 
was  in  Boston,  waiting  for  his  passage,  he  established  himself  in  the 
affectionate  confidence  of  the  Committee.  On  the  6th  of  April,  he 
embarked  in  a  vessel  bound  to  Pondicherry.  From  that  place,  it  is  but  a 
short  distance  to  the  seat  of  the  mission;  at  which,  it  is  hoped,  he  has  ere 
this  time  arrived. 

It  was  on  the  2d  of  March,  1816,  that  Messrs.  Richards,  Meigs,  and 
Poor,  with  their  wives,  and  the  dearly  remembered  Mr.  Warren,  arrived 
at  Colombo  in  Ceylon,  and  it  was  not  until  the  first  of  the  following  Octo 
ber,  now  four  years  ago,  that  they  had  all  reached  Jaffna,  the  northern 
district  of  the  island,  where  the  mission  was  to  be  established. 

Mr.  Warren's  course  was  short  and  bright,  and  its  termination  full  of 
immortality.  The  life  of  Mr.  Richards,  so  precious  in  the  estimation  of 
all  the  friends  of  missions,  it  has  pleased  a  gracious  Providence  to  lengthen 
out,  beyond  our  utmost  hopes,  and  to  render,  in  no  small  degree,  consola 
tory  and  helpful  to  his  brethren,  under  the  pressure  of  multiplied  labors 
and  cares  and  afflictions.  It  was  about  sixteen  months  ago,  that  Mr.  Poor 
began  to  be  affected  with  pectoral  weakness,  and  with  slight  raising  of 
blood.  For  a  considerable  time,  he  was  unable  to  attend  to  his  accustomed 
labors,  and  there  were  serious  apprehensions,  that  he  was  soon  to  follow 
Mr.  Warren.  But  the  latest  accounts  give  reason  for  hope.  Of  the  im 
paired  health  of  Mr.  Meigs,  our  first  intelligence  was  what  is  contained 
in  the  extract  just  given  of  the  letter  from  Colombo. 

In  a  second  postscript,  dated  Jan.  10,  1820,  the  brethren  at  the  station 
write: — 

"The  afflicting  hand  of  our  God  is  still  upon  us.  We  are  grieved,  that 
we  have  occasion  to  say,  that  about  a  month  ago  brother  Meigs  was  visited 
with  a  heavy  cold  and  cough.  About  a  week  since  his  complaints  became 
somewhat  alarming.  He  has  had  a  severe  affection  of  the  lungs.  But 
from  his  present  state,  we  have  good  reason  to  hope,  that  the  seasonable 
and  energetic  means,  which  have  been  used,  will  be  made  effectual  to  his 
restoration  to  health.  The  health  of  brethren  Richards  and  Poor  is  the 
same,  as  it  has  been  for  months  past.  If  there  be  any  alteration,  we  think 
it  is  for  the  better.  We  have  much  reason  for  thanksgiving  that  brother 
Scudder  arrived  at  the  time  he  did." 

As  the  Lord  has  been  gracious,  so  prayer   will  continue  to  be  made 
35 


274  REPORT.  1820. 

without  ceasing,  that  he  will  still  be  gracious,  and  spare  lives  so  inestima 
bly  valuable. 

If  all,  who  have  lately  been  sent  out,  have  duly  arrived,  and  no  breach 
has  been  made,  of  which  intelligence  has  not  been  received,  our  Ceylon 
mission  now  consists  of  six  ordained  missionaries,  a  physician  preparing 
also  for  ordination,  their  wives,  and  a  printer.  It  occupies  two  principal 
stations,  Tillipally  and  Batticotta,  and  has  specially  assigned  to  it  six 
large  parishes,  with  ancient  buildings  and  lands,  devoted  to  religious  use, 
and  containing  a  dense  pagan  population.  It  is  advantageously  situated 
for  communication  with  the  different  parts  of  the  island,  and  with  a 
populous  province  of  Southern  India,  and  for  extensive  and  efficient  opera 
tions:  and  it  has  enjoyed,  in  no  slight  degree,  the  confidence  of  the  people 
and  of  the  government. 

Here,  of  course,  as  well  as  at  Bombay,  the  missionaries  are  under  the 
necessity  of  devoting  labor  and  time  to  the  acquisition  of  a  language, 
having  very  little  affinity  with  any  language,  with  which  they  were  previ 
ously  acquainted.  But  it  was  not  necessary  for  them  to  undertake  the 
translating  of  the  Scriptures;  as  a  good  translation  into  the  native  Tarnul 
had  long  before  been  made. 

IN  PREACHING  the  missionaries  have  been  constant  and  laborious;  and 
their  advantages  for  collecting  regular  congregations,  or  assemblies  of 
hearers,  are  much  better  than  are  enjoyed  by  their  brethren  at  Bombay, 
though  they  do  not,  in  the  course  of  a  year,  address  by  any  means  so  great 
a  multitude  of  immortal  beings. 

During  the  three  years,  from  the  time  of  their  arrival  to  the  13th  of 
Nov.  last,  the  date  of  our  latest  accounts  direct  from  the  mission,  they, 
afflicted  and  weakened  as  they  were,  had  established  fifteen  schools;  nine 
in  connexion  with  Tillipally,  and  six  with  Batticotta.  The  total  number 
of  regular  pupils  was  reckoned  about  700,  at  the  last  date. 

Besides  these  common  free  schools,  there  is  at  each  station,  a  boarding 
school,  consisting  of  youths,  taken  under  the  especial  and  parental  care 
of  the  missionaries,  supported  by  the  bounty  of  benevolent  societies  and 
individuals  in  this  country,  and  bearing  names  selected  by  the  respective 
donors.  Of  these  there  were,  at  the  time  now  specified,  48  males  and 
nine  females. 

The  accounts  of  the  schools  generally,  and  of  the  boarding  schools  in 
particular,  are  exceedingly  interesting  and  encouraging.  In  all  the  schools, 
with  the  common  branches  of  instruction,  Scripture  tracts  are  read  and 
the  principles  of  Christianity  are  taught.  The  pupils  in  general  make 
good  progress  in  their  studies. 

In  the  last  letter,  after  various  statements  and  remarks  on  the  general 
subject,  the  missionaries  proceed  to  say: 

"On  the  whole,  respecting  our  boarding  schools  we  have  much  pleas 
ure,  after  two  years  of  experience,  in  assuring  the  Prudential  Committee, 
that  our  warmest  expectations  have  thus  far  been  fully  realized;  that  we 
now  experience  important  advantages,  which  we  did  not  anticipate;  that 
we  do  not  realize  those  difficulties  and  impediments  to  improvement, 
which  we  expected  would  arise  from  the  circumstance  of  our  taking  the 
children  of  idolaters;  but,  on  the  contrary,  we  do  not  see  how  we  should 
materially  alter  our  plan  of  instruction,  or  our  course  of  conduct,  in 
case  the  same  number  of  children,  belonging  to  Christian  parents, 


1820.  REPORT.  275 

should  be  committed  to  our  care.  Judging  from  what  we  already  expe 
rience,  and  what  we  may  with  confidence  anticipate,  we  consider  our 
boarding  schools  as  holding  the  second  place  in  the  system  of  means, 
which  are  to  be  used  for  the  conversion  of  this  people; — as  second  only 
to  the  stated  preaching  of  the  gospel.  You,  dear  sir,  can  readily  esti 
mate  the  probable  advantages  to  the  cause  of  Christianity  from  the  Chris 
tian  education  of  50  youths,  on  heathen  ground,  in  circumstances  which 
almost  entirely  free  them  from  the  baneful  influence  of  idolatry.  Our 
boarding  schools  are  giving  shape  to  all  the  other  schools  connected  with 
our  station.  The  progress  which  our  boys  have  made,  has  become  a 
powerful  stimulus  to  many,  who  attend  our  day  schools.  Several  boys  of 
the  first  families  around  us,  whose  parents  would  not  permit  them  to  eat 
on  land  occupied  by  Christians,  spend  most  of  their  time,  day  and  night, 
upon  our  premises,  that  they  may  enjoy  equal  advantages,  and  make 
equal  progress  with  our  boarders. 

"We  are  very  desirous,  that  this  subject  should  be  distinctly  before  the 
American  churches.  We  wish  them  to  know  and  attentively  to  consider, 
the  peculiar  advantages,  with  which  the  state  of  this  people  furnishes 
them  for  the  exercise  of  their  charity. 

"In  the  first  place,  this  is  a  very  poor  people.  To  their  poverty  we  are 
greatly  indebted  for  the  success  we  have  had,  in  obtaining  boarding 
schools,  and  for  the  influence  we  have  among  the  people,  by  which  many 
have  been  brought  within  the  sound  of  the  gospel.  We  therefore  confi 
dently  believe,  that  their  poverty  will,  in  the  providence  of  God,  be  made 
the  occasion  of  many  of  them  receiving  the  unsearchable  riches  of  divine 
grace. 

"Probably  in  no  part  of  the  heathen  world,  can  children  be  supported 
and  educated  in  a  decent,  comfortable  mode  of  living,  so  cheap  as  in  this 
district.  We  repeat  now  with  confidence,  what  we  ventured  to  conjec 
ture  three  years  ago;  viz.  that  twelve  dollars  are  sufficient  for  the  annual 
support  of  boys  from  six  to  fifteen  years  of  age.  Though  we  labored  a 
long  time  without  success,  to  obtain  boys  to  be  educated,  such  is  the 
change  that  has  taken  place  in  the  minds  of  the  people,  that  as  many 
children  could  now  easily  be  obtained,  as  we  can  find  means  and  accom 
modations  to  support. 

"Considering  the  rank  and  influence,  which  females  ought  to  hold  in 
every  society,  and  the  well  known  state  of  degradation  in  which  they 
are  held  in  this,  as  well  as  in  every  idolatrous  country,  your  mind,  and 
the  minds  of  the  Christian  public,  will  at  once  be  deeply  impressed  with 
the  importance  and  utility  of  Female  Charity  Boarding  Schools.  The 
obstacles  to  such  we  have  found  to  be  very  great.  Sometimes  we  have 
thought  them  to  be  insuperable.  But  we  are  now  greatly  encouraged  on 
the  subject,  by  our  present  success  and  future  prospects. 

"The  facility  of  supporting  children  here,  forms  one  of  the  strong 
claims,  which  this  people  have  upon  the  charity  of  the  American  public. 
Within  a  short  time,  we  have  had  five  or  six  pressing  requests  to  establish 
free  schools  in  the  neighboring  villages,  where  yet  there  are  none.  The 
monthly  expense  of  such  schools,  after  suitable  buildings  are  prepared,  is 
from  $1,50  to  $2.  We  have  now  15  such  schools,  and  they  might  easily 
be  greatly  multiplied.  Applications  have  also  been  made  from  other 
parishes,  that  missionaries  would  come  and  establish  themselves  among 


276  REPORT.  1820. 

the  people,  as  we  have  done  at  Tillipally  and  Batticotta.  And  we  may 
say  generally,  that  our  influence  and  missionary  operations,  which  were 
at  first  feared  and  dreaded,  are  now  welcomed  by  many,  and  sought  after 
by  some. 

"We  have  now  more  health  and  strength,  than  in  months  past.  We 
have,  in  some  degree,  got  through  with  the  pressure  and  expense  of  build 
ing,  and  the  drudgery  of  learning  a  new  language.  We  might  therefore, 
superintend  a  few  more  schools,  take  more  children,  and  in  other  respects 
enlarge  our  missionary  plans.  But  we  dare  not  further  hazard  the  conse 
quences  of  involving  the  mission  in  debt.  We  look  to  America  with 
great  anxiety  for  adequate  supplies.  We  wish  to  tell  you  more  distinctly 
how  much  our  hearts  are  pained  within  us,  on  witnessing  the  forlorn  state 
of  many  children  around  us.  More  than  20,  principally  orphans,  many  of 
whom  appear  to  be  in  a  starving  condition,  have  appeared  at  our  doors, 
intreating,  oftentimes  with  tears,  that  we  would  receive  them  to  our  board 
ing  school;  but  whom  we  have  been  compelled  to  reject,  for  the  want  of 
means  to  support  them.  Thus,  these  miserable  objects  are  cast  back 
again  upon  the  world,  some  probably  to  perish  in  the  streets;  others  to 
drag  out  a  long  and  miserable  existence  in  poverty;  and  all  to  live  in  the 
darkness  of  idolatry  till  they  go  down  to  the  regions  of  death.  It  is  an 
awfully  interesting  inquiry  with  us,  to  know  in  whose  skirts  the  blood  of 
these  souls  will  be  found." 

These  impressive  and  affecting  representations  will  not  have  been 
made  in  vain.  As,  since  the  writing  of  this  letter,  the  mission  has  re 
ceived  a  large  augmentation,  it  will  be  able  to  take  under  its  care  a 
proportionably  large  number  of  general  schools,  and  of  youths  in  their 
families  or  boarding  schools.  . 

Not  only  have  these  missionaries  been  thus  encouraged  by  the  facili 
ties  given  to  their  operations,  and  the  general  success  which  has  attended 
them;  but  they  have  also  been  favored  with  more  special  tokens  of  the 
divine  presence  and  manifestations  of  divine  grace.  Mention  has  been 
made,  in  preceding  reports,  of  several  individuals,  who  appeared  to  be 
subjects  of  abiding  religious  impressions.  Of  two,  Supyen  and  Francis- 
cus  Maleappa,  more  particular  accounts  have  been  given.  With  respect 
to  Supyen  no  later  intelligence  has  been  received.  Maleappa,  who  had 
been  a  valuable  helper  at  Tillipally,  and  was  afterwards,  in  connection 
with  that  station,  placed  as  a  schoolmaster  and  catechist  at  Mallagum; — 
who  was  strongly  attached  to  the  mission,  and  was  expected  to  abide  as 
a  permanent  assistant,  felt  it  to  be  his  duty,  about  sixteen  months  ago,  to 
leave  the  mission  for  the  purpose  of  accompanying  his  aged  and  infirm 
father  to  Colombo;  and  his  return  was  considered  as  uncertain. 

Very  interesting  accounts  have  since  been  given  of  other  individuals. 

"Since  the  date  of  our  last  letter,"  say  the  missionaries  in  their  letter 
of  November  13th,  "we  have  received  to  our  communion  Gabriel  Tissera 
and  Nicholas  Paramanundu,  who  have  served  us  in  the  mission  as  inter 
preters.  They  appear  to  us  to  give  decisive  evidence  of  saving  conver 
sion,  and  to  manifest  a  becoming  zeal  for  the  honor  of  Christ,  and  for  the 
salvation  of  the  heathen.  By  their  being  thus  closely  united  with  us,  at 
this  time,  we  feel  much  strengthened  and  encouraged  in  our  work.  They 
are  now  valuable  assistants  to  us,  and  we  have  reason  to  believe,  that 
they  will  render  important  service  to  our  mission,  and  become  lasting 
blessings  to  the  heathen. 


1820.  REPORT.  277 

"At  each  of  our  stations  are  several  persons,  who  give  pleasing  evi 
dences  of  faith  in  Christ,  and  will  probably  ere  long,  be  admitted  to  our 
church.  Two  of  the  persons,  here  referred  to,  are  members  of  our 
boarding  schools.  We  notice  also,  with  much  pleasure,  that  there  is  an 
unusual  degree  of  seriousness  upon  the  minds  of  several  other  boys,  who 
are  under  our  instruction.  We  feel  that  we  are,  at  this  time,  in  a  special 
manner,  called  upon  by  the  providence  of  God  towards  us,  to  humble 
ourselves  before  him,  on  account  of  our  past  deficiencies  in  his  service, 
and  to  redouble  our  diligence  in  the  use  of  the  means  of  grace,  that  we 
may  be  prepared  to  experience,  what  we  would  ever  consider  the  greatest 
of  all  blessings;  viz.  a  special  outpouring  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  We  do 
hope,  that  the  American  churches,  especially  on  the  first  Monday  in  the 
month,  unite  their  supplications  with  ours  for  such  manifestations  of  di 
vine  grace  among  this  heathen  people." 

In  a  letter  ten  days  later,  Mr.  Meigs  says: 

"Inclosed  I  send  you  a  letter  from  Gabriel  Tissera,  of  whose  character 
and  qualifications  to  assist  in  our  mission,  you  will  by  this  time  have  con 
siderable  knowledge. 

"He  is  a  young  man  of  distinguished  promise.  Since  he  has  become 
hopefully  pious,  we  regard  him  with  new  and  increased  attachment;  and 
think  his  connection  with  our  mission  of  very  great  importance.  He 
possesses  talents  of  a  superior  order,  and  an  ardent  thirst  for  knowledge; 
and,  so  far  as  we  can  judge,  possesses  sincere  piety.  He  is  now  well 
qualified  to  act  as  a  catechist  among  the  people;  and,  at  no  very  distant 
period,  he  will  probably  be  well  qualified  for  ordination.  He  shows  a 
strong  desire  to  be  permanently  connected  with  our  mission;  and  we  are 
certainly  no  less  desirous  of  such  an  event.  He  manifests  a  fervent  love  for 
the  souls  of  this  miserable  people;  and  I  have  strong  faith  to  believe  that 
he  will  be  made,  by  the  blessing  of  God,  an  instrument  in  the  conversion 
of  many  souls.  Indeed  his  labors  have  already  been  attended  with  the 
divine  blessing." 

The  letter  here  referred  to  has  been  given  to  the  public,  and  has  pro 
bably  been  read  by  the  members  of  the  Board.  It  speaks  much  for  the 
praise  of  divine  grace,  and  much  for  hope  respecting  this  interesting 
young  man  and  his  future  usefulness. 

MISSION  TO  PALESTINE. — At  the  delivery  of  our  last  annual  Report, 
the  Rev.  Messrs.  Parsons  and  Fisk  were  in  expectation  of  embarking, 
by  the  first  convenient  opportunity,  for  Asia  Minor,  with  a  view  to  their 
ultimate  residence  as  missionaries  in  the  Holy  Land,  or  some  neighbor 
ing  region.  A  very  favorable  opportunity  soon  after  presented  itself, 
and  active  preparations  were  made  to  embrace  it.  The  missionaries  ar 
ranged  their  affairs,  visited  their  near  relatives  and  friends,  took  leave  of 
many  circles  of  Christians  with  whom  they  were  acquainted,  and  arrived 
at  Boston,  ready  for  departure,  about  the  close  of  October.  The  short 
interval  which  elapsed,  previously  to  their  sailing,  was  employed  in  a 
manner  most  gratifying  to  the  friends  of  the  cause  in  which  they  were 
engaged,  and  most  auspicious  to  the  mission. 

On  Lord's  day,  Oct  31st,  at  the  return  of  the  communion  in  the  Old 
South  church,  the  two  missionaries,  and  the  members  of  Park  Street 
church,  with  several  clergymen,  were  present  by  invitation.  While  sur- 


278  REPORT.  1820. 

rounding  the  table  of  the  Lord,  the  exhortations,  the  prayers,  and  the 
numberless  associations,  were  calculated  to  increase  that  zeal  and  self- 
denial,  which  are  peculiarly  necessary  to  the  prosecution  of  this  divine 
work.  In  the  afternoon  of  the  same  day,  Mr.  Parsons  preached  in  Park 
Street  church,  from  Hosea  iii,  4,  5,  on  the  Dereliction  and  Restoration 
of  the  Jews;  and,  in  the  evening,  Mr.  Fisk  delivered  a  farewell  dis 
course,  from , Acts  xx,  22,  on  the  Holy  Land  as  a  Jield  for  missionary 
enterprise.  On  this  occasion,  the  Old  South  church  was  excessively 
crowded,  and  a  highly  respectable  audience  testified  their  interest  in  the 
subject,  by  the  profoundest  attention,  and  a  liberal  contribution.  The 
Instructions  of  the  Prudential  Committee  were  then  delivered  in  public. 
They  relate  principally  to  topics,  which  belong  especially  to  the  contem 
plated  mission;  and,  as  they  have  been  printed,  and  extensively  circulat 
ed,  your  Committee  need  only  refer  the  Board  to  them. 

On  Monday  evening,  the  united  monthly  concert  for  prayer  was  held  at 
Park  Street  church.  As  the  collections  at  this  meeting,  for  the  preced 
ing  twelve  months,  had  been  made  expressly  for  the  Palestine  mission,  it 
was  peculiarly  grateful  to  join  with  the  first  missionaries,  in  prayer  and 
exhortation,  just  before  their  departure. 

Having  been  detained  a  few  days  by  head  winds,  and  thus  allowed  a 
convenient  season  to  take  leave  of  their  brethren,  they  embarked  on  board 
the  ship  Sally  Ann,  Wednesday  morning,  Nov.  3rd,  and  soon  bade  adieu 
to  the  shores  of  their  native  country.  It  was  a  part  of  the  plan,  that,  as 
the  ship  was  about  to  touch  at  Malta,  they  should  seek  acquaintance  with 
the  Rev.  Mr.  Jowett,  Dr.  Naudi,  and  others,  with  a  view  to  cultivate  a 
brotherly  intercourse,  and  to  obtain  useful  information.  They  entered 
the  harbor  of  Malta,  after  a  favorable  passage,  on  the  23rd  of  December. 
Though  the  rigid  quarantine  laws  of  that  island  would  not  permit  them  to 
land,  they  had  the  happiness  to  meet  Mr.  Jowett  and  Dr.  Naudi,  at  the 
Lazaretto,  and  to  be  introduced  to  the  Rev.  Mr.  Wilson,  a  missionary, 
and  Mr.  Jones,  who  had  been  American  consul  at  Tripoli,  where  he 
had  resided  >seven  years.  From  these  gentlemen  they  received  much 
valuable  information,  and  proofs  of  the  kindest  and  most  benevolent  inter 
est  in  their  mission.  They  were  favored,  also,  with  letters  of  introduction 
to  persons  of  intelligence  and  influence,  at  Smyrna  and  Scio.  Mr.  Jowett 
was  at  the  pains  to  draw  up  a  paper  of  hints,  for  the  use  of  our  missiona 
ries;  and  has  shown  his  love  to  the  cause,  and  his  hearty  and  zealous 
cooperation  with  all  faithful  laborers,  by  an  excellent  letter  addressed  to 
the  Corresponding  Secretary  of  the  Board.  This  laborious  missionary, 
whose  travels  in  Egypt  and  Western  Asia  have  been  read  with  eagerness 
by  the  Christian  world,  not  only  received  Messrs.  Parsons  and  Fisk 
kindly,  but,  in  common  with  his  associates,  was  at  personal  inconvenience 
and  expense  to  meet  them  almost  daily,  while  they  remained  in  the  harbor. 
This  generous  attention  had  the  most  cheering  effect  on  the  minds  of 
those,  to  whom  it  was  shown,  and  will  make  a  grateful  impression  on  the 
hearts  of  American  Christians. 

On  the  9th  of  January  the  ship  pursued  her  voyage,  and  in  six  days 
entered  the  harbor  of  Smyrna.  The  missionaries  were  received  with 
cordiality  by  all  the  gentlemen,  to  whom  they  had  letters  of  introduction; 
particularly,  by  the  Rev.  Charles  Williamson,  chaplain  to  the  British 


1820.  REPORT.  279 

consulate,  Mr.  Lee  and  the  Messrs.  Perkinses,  eminent  merchants  in  that 
city. 

During  the  voyage,  religious  services  were  regularly  attended  on  board, 
according  to  the  arrangement  and  at  the  request  of  Capt.  Edes,  from  whom 
the  missionaries  received  many  acts  of  kindness  on  their  passage,  arid 
after  their  arrival.  They  labored  with  assiduity  for  the  spiritual  good  of 
the  ship's  company,  and  were  encouraged  to  hope,  that  their  exertions 
were  not  without  some  good  effect.  They  appear  to  have  been  deep.ly 
impressed  with  the  moral  wants  of  seamen,  and  to  have  ardently  desired 
the  salvation  of  all,  who  sailed  with  them. 

At  Smyrna  they  found  the  most  satisfactory  evidence,  that  the  shores 
of  the  Mediterranean  present  many  extensive  fields  of  missionary  labor. 
By  the  aid  of  Christians  in  more  favored  parts  of  the  world,  missionaries 
may  carry  the  Scriptures  and  religious  tracts  into  every  town  and  village 
throughout  those  benighted  regions.  There  are  many  professed  Christians, 
to  whom  immediate  access  can  be  gained,  and  who  would  receive  religious 
books  with  gladness.  Christian  missionaries  may  reside  in  any  part  of 
Turkey,  so  far  as  appears,  without  the  least  apprehension  of  interference 
from  the  government.  Numerous  and  powerful  inducements  urge  to  send 
forth  laborers  into  this  part  of  the  harvest. 

The  acquisition  of  the  Modern  Greek,  and  other  languages  spoken  in 
Asia  Minor,  principally  occupied  the  time  of  Messrs.  Parsons  and  Fisk. 
They  found  opportunity,  however,  to  collect  useful  information  with  res 
pect  to  the  condition  of  the  people  in  neighboring  regions,  and  the  various 
means  which  could  be  used,  for  the  promotion  of  religion.  They  distri 
buted  the  Scriptures  to  various  classes  of  persons,  and  gave  occasional 
instruction  to  individuals,  who  fell  into  their  private  society.  At  the  close 
of  a  journal,  which  they  sent  to  this  country  on  the  10th  of  March,  they 
announce  the  intention  of  spending  the  summer  at  Scio,  (the  Chios  of  the 
New  Testament,)  an  island  70  miles  from  Smyrna.  Their  expectation 
was,  that  they  should  possess  superior  advantages  for  acquiring  the 
Modern  Greek,  under  Professor  Bambas,  the  principal  instructor  of  the 
college  there,  to  whom  they  had  letters  from  Mr.  Jowett,  and  other  gentle 
men  of  high  respectability. 

On  the  first  rnonday  in  February,  the  Rev.  Mr.  Williamson  united  with 
the  missionaries  in  the  monthly  concert  of  prayer.  This  was  probably  the 
commencement  in  Turkey  of  a  holy  celebration,  which  will,  at  some 
future  day,  be  observed  in  every  village  of  that  populous  and  extensive 
empire.  The  gentleman  just  named  addressed  to  the  Secretary  an  interest 
ing  and  affectionate  letter,  from  which  it  will  be  suitable  to  lay  before  the 
Board  the  following  extracts. 

Smyrna,  Feb.  1820. 

"REV.  AND  DEAR  SIR,— Although  our  friends,  the  missionaries,  have 
acquainted  you  with  their  safe  arrival  in  Smyrna,  yet  I  would  wish  to  join 
in  the  annunciation  of  the  fact." 

"1  would  first  greet  you  and  every  member  of  the  American  Board  of 
Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions.  Accept  of  my  most  cordial  saluta 
tions,  and' Christian  congratulations,  on  the  happy  commencement  of  an 
enterprise,  which  must,  in  due  time,  terminate  in  the  completest  success 
— in  the  conversion  of  the  heathen  and  reformation  of  the  Christian 


280  REPORT.  1820. 

world.  Every  attention  has  been,  and  shall  be  paid  to  Messrs.  Parsons 
and  Fisk,  and  to  all  their  successors,  who  will  come  as  the  messengers  of 
the  Lord,  as  far  as  my  abilities  and  influence  will  possibly  avail." 

"Within  the  last  fifty  years,  literature  is  beginning  to  peep  out  among 
the  Greeks  from  her  hiding  places  in  Turkey.  Some  of  the  best  informed 
are  acquainted  with  the  history  of  the  Reformation,  and  will  grant  that 
Luther  was  a  great  man,  sent  for  the  benefit  of  the  human  race,  though 
they  are  far  at  present  from  desiring  a  like  reformation.  Luther  and 
those  other  reformers,  who  did  not  condemn  and  sweep  away  episcopal 
superintendence,  are  respected  by  a  few  of  the  Greeks,  though  the  major 
ity  will  have  nothing  to  do  with  reformation,  and  know  nothing  about  it. 
Besides  the  Christians  all  around  the  shores  of  the  Mediterranean,  those 
of  Egypt,  Abyssinia,  Arabia,  Syria,  Persia,  Asia  Minor,  Russia,  and 
Turkey  in  Europe,  of  whatever  denomination  they  may  be,  all  have  their 
own  episcopal  magistrates  in  ecclesiastical  affairs;  and  each  party  has  fixed 
laws  for  clergy  and  laity,  of  which  the  violation  of  the  most  trifling  these 
ignorant  people  consider  as  more  heinous,  than  of  the  most  important  law 
of  the  state. 

"The  sale  and  distribution  of  the  Holy  Scriptures  and  religious  tracts, 
have  been  hitherto  the  only  missionary  operations  carried  on  in  this  coun 
try.  A  missionary  visiting  the  different  towns  must  endeavor,  not  only 
to  make  the  acquaintance,  but  to  gain  the  confidence  of  the  leading  men 
and  priests  of  the  Greeks.  With  the  assistance  of  his  new  friends,  the 
missionary  may  be  able  to  distribute  many  copies  of  the  everlasting  Word, 
in  a  language  intelligible  to  the  people,  a  blessing  of  which  those  regions 
have  been  deprived  for  some  hundreds  of  years.  Next  to  the  countenance 
of  the  Greeks,  religious  tracts,  compiled  from  the  first  fathers  of  the  Chris 
tian  church,  will  be  of  the  greatest  service  to  missionaries.  The  Greeks 
highly  esteem  and  venerate  the  ancient  martyrs.  Their  writings  are 
looked  upon  as  oracles;  but  they  are  very  scarce,  and  unintelligible  to  the 
people,  as  they  stand  in  ancient  Greek.  In  case  of  opposition,  which 
sometimes  happens,  and  of  a  deadly  indifference,  which  generally  pre 
vails,  tracts  will  be  of  the  greatest  utility  in  bringing  forward  the  fathers 
to  allay  opposition,  and  to  recommend  the  duty  of  perusing  the  Scrip 
tures,  as  well  as  to  awaken  a  spirit  of  piety,  and  of  inquiry  after  Gospel 
truth." 

"Two  other  important  parts  of  missionary  labor  remain  to  be  entered 
upon.  The  first  is  Education; — the  other  a  translation,  not  of  the  Scrip 
tures,  for  that  is  accomplished,  but  of  all  other  good  religious  books  and 
tracts.  The  printing  of  a  religious  monthly  publication  in  Modern  Greek, 
not  offending  the  institutions  of  the  country,  is  of  primary  importance, 
and  would  be,  in  the  haridsof  prudent  conductors,  of  incalculable  service. 
The  extensive  fields  of  education  are  not,  to  foreign  Protestant  missiona 
ries,  so  easily  and  completely  accessible,  as  the  rich  and  most  abundant 
streams  of  a  fount  of  types,  which  would  ere  long,  silently  water  every 
portion  of  the  field  sowed  with  the  word  of  God;  and,  with  the  divine 
blessing,  would  render  luxuriant  and  plentiful  the  Christian  harvest." 

The  writer  proceeds  to  offer  several  suggestions,  in  regard  to  the  best 
methods  of  extending  the  knowledge  of  Christianity  in  the  Turkish  em 
pire.  He  dwells  on  the  vast  good,  which  could  probably  be  effected  by  a 
printing  establishment,  with  Greek,  Turkish,  and  French  types,  (the  latter 


1820.  REPORT.  281 

comprehending  the  general  European  alphabet,)  at  Smyrna;  and  another 
at  Jerusalem,  with  Greek,  Syriac,  and  Arabic  characters.  In  the  most 
unqualified  manner  he  sanctions  the  opinion,  which  the  Committee  formed 
originally,  that  'Smyrna  is  by  far  the  best  situation  in  the  Levant  for  a 
permanent  missionary  establishment,  on  the  eastern  shores  of  the  Mediter 
ranean,  having  a  frequent  communication  with  all  the  parts  of  the  Ottoman 
empire;  and  that  it  is  the  best  place  in  those  regions  for  learning  Greek, 
Turkish,  Italian,  and  French,  and  for  the  security  and  liberty,  which 
foreigners  and  Christians  enjoy.'  The  advantages  of  an  extensive  print 
ing  establishment  may  be  conceived,  when  it  is  stated,  that  though  the 
Greeks  are  very  fond  of  reading,  there  is  not  a  single  newspaper,  or  other 
periodical  publication,  in  all  the  Turkish  dominions.  There  is  little 
reason  to  doubt,  that  the  shores  of  the  Mediterranean  afford  many  of  the 
best  openings  to  Christian  enterprise;  and  it  surely  is  not  too  much  to 
anticipate,  that  the  churches  of  this  country  will  delight  to  send  back  to 
those  central  parts  of  the  earth,  the  inestimable  blessings,  which  were 
derived  from  thence,  but  which  have,  in  the  righteous  visitations  of  Provi 
dence,  been  so  long  banished  from  the  countries,  where  they  were  first 
enjoyed. 

MISSION  AMONG  THE  CHEROKEEs. — With  this  mission  not  only  the 
Board,  but  the  Christian  community  extensively,  have  become  familiarly 
acquainted.  It  is  near;  seemingly  even  in  the  midst  of  us;  has  inter 
course  with  all  parts  of  the  country;  is  established  in  the  affections  and 
confidence  of  all,  who  wish  well  to  the  long  neglected  natives  of  the  wil 
derness;  and,  from  various  causes,  has  engaged  general  attention,  and 
inspired  elevated  hope.  May  it  please  the  Father  of  Lights,  that  it  may 
continue  to  be  worthy  of  all  these  kind  regards,  and  never  disappoint  its 
patrons  and  friends. 

The  company  consisting  of  Messrs.  Abijah  Conger,  John  Vail,  and 
John  Talmage,  with  their  families,  designed  for  the  Cherokee  mis 
sion;  and  the  Rev.  Alfred  Finney,  with  his  wife,  and  Miss  Minerva 
Washburn,  an  unmarried  female  assistant,  for  the  Arkansas  mission; 
described  in  the  Report  of  last  year,  as  having  then,  as  was  supposed, 
just  set  out  from  Rockaway,  N.  J.,  arrived  at  Brainerd,  on  the  10th  of 
November. 

Their  setting  out  was  delayed  by  a  heavy  visitation  of  Providence.  An 
epidemic  prevailed  at  Rockaway,  by  which  the  families  of  Mr.  Vail  and 
Mr.  Talmage  were  visited  severely.  Two  sons  of  Mr.  Vail  were  buried 
in  one  grave;  and  another,  after  the  company  had  been  detained  about 
three  weeks,  the  bereaved  parents  were  constrained  to  leave  behind,  as 
too  feeble  to  bear  the  journey.  The  affliction  was  deeply  felt  by  them 
all;  but  appears  to  have  been  made,  by  divine  grace,  a  means  of  promot 
ing  in  them  the  feelings,  suitable  for  all  Christians,  arid  especially  for 
those  who  are  devoted  to  the  missionary  work. 

They  left  their  houses  and  their  kindred  and  friends,  with  tender 
cheerfulness;  went  on  their  way  rejoicing;  and  from  Rockaway  to  Brain 
erd,  a  distance  of  more  than  nine  hundred  miles,  had  a  prosperous  jour 
ney,  of  only  about  six  weeks.  On  their  arrival,  the  hearts  of  the  breth 
ren  and  sisters  of  the  mission,  burdened  as  they  had  been  with  contin 
ually  increasing  labors  and  cares,  were  filled  with  gladness  and  thankful- 
36 


282  REPORT.  1820. 

ness.  "It  is  a  time,"  say  they  in  the  journal — "It  is  a  time  of  great  re 
joicing  at  Brainerd.  We  feel,  that  the  Lord  has  heard  our  prayers  for 
help;  and  it  is  now  our  duty  to  render  praise.  Oh  that  we  could  be  suffi 
ciently  thankful  to  our  gracious  Savior,  for  the  abundant  mercies,  which 
we  have  experienced,  and  the  sweet  consolations  now  afforded  us." 

On  the  3d  of  January  1818,  the  Rev.  Ard  Hoyt  with  his  family,  and 
the  Rev.  Daniel  S.  Butrick,  arrived  at  the  station;  and  the  Rev.  William 
Chamberlin  on  the  10th  of  the  ensuing  March. 

About  the  last  of  May  of  the  same  year,  Mr.  Kingsbury,  with  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Williams,  left  this  mission,  for  the  purpose  of  commencing  an  estab 
lishment  in  the  Choctaw  nation:  and  your  Committee  regret  to  state,  that 
about  four  months  ago,  Mr.  Talmage,  from  some  feelings  of  discontent 
ment,  retired  from  the  mission. 

It  will  be  grateful  to  the  Board,  here  to  be  refreshed  with  a  quotation 
from  a  letter  of  the  Rev.  Cyrus  Kingsbury,  30th  June,  1817. 

"I  arrived  at  this  place,"  (the  place  now  called  Brainerd,)  "on  the 
13th  of  January.  The  weather  for  some  time  after  was  extremely  cold 
for  this  climate,  and  I  felt  the  want  of  comfortable  lodgings,  having  only 
a  skin  spread  upon  the  floor,  and  a  thin  covering  of  blankets;  bat  my 
health  was  kindly  preserved.  Immediately  on  my  arrival,  I  commenced 
making  preparations  to  cultivate  the  land,  and  to  open  the  school  upon 
the  plan  proposed.  On  the  7th  of  March  I  had  the  great  satisfaction  of 
welcoming  the  arrival  of  brethren  Hall  and  Williams,  with  their  wives.  A 
kind  Providence  preserved  them  through  many  dangers,  and  brought 
them  to  their  destined  place  in  safety.  Since  their  arrival,  we  have  all, 
when  health  would  permit,  been  employed  from  Monday  morning  till 
Saturday  night,  either  in  hard  labor,  or  on  journies  for  the  mission.  We 
have  had  to  provide  for  a  numerous  family,  and  to  make  preparations  for 
supplying  the  wants  of  a  still  more  numerous  one.  In  such  a  situation 
we  felt  it  to  be  our  indispensable  duty,  to  labor,  as  far  as  health  and 
strength  would  permit,  that  we  might  not  be  chargeable. 

"Soon  after  our  arrival  in  the  nation,  we  opened  our  doors  to  receive 
children  into  our  family  to  teach  them  the  rudiments  of  the  English  lan 
guage,  the  principles  of  the  Christian  religion,  and  the  industry  and  arts 
of  civilized  life.  The  present  number  is  twenty-six,  of  different  ages, 
from  four  to  eighteen  years." 

Such  were  the  beginnings  of  our  Cherokee  mission  three  years  and 
some  months  ago.  During  the  first  year,  Mr.  Kingsbury  and  his  two  as 
sistants,  Messrs.  Hall  and  Williams,  with  their  wives,  were  the  only  mem 
bers  of  the  mission,  bearing  with  exemplary  fortitude  and  cheerfulness, 
the  privations,  fatigues,  and  discouragements  of  untried  and  arduous 
situation  and  enterprise. 

There  remains  of  the  mission,  Mr.  Hoyt,  superintendent,  with  his  wife 
and  children,  four  of  whom  are  very  useful  assistants;  Mr.  Conger,  with 
his  wife  and  children,  and  an  apprentice,  George  Halsey,  about  twenty 
years  old,  and  a  devoted  helper  of  excellent  promise;  Mr.  Vail  with  his 
family,  Mr.  Butrick,  Mr.  Hall  with  his  family,  and  Mr.  Chamberlin  with 
his  family. 

Mr.  Milo  Hoyt,  who  served  with  his  father  in  the  work,  as  a  true  son, 
has  lately  been  married  to  an  amiable  and  distinguished  native  convert, 
Lydia  Lowry.  And  as,  by  this  marriage,  he  has  become  entitled  to  all 


1820.  REPORT.  383 

the  privileges  of  a  native  Cherokee,  he  thinks,  that  by  occupying  a  situa 
tion  near  the  establishment,  or  in  an  eligible  place  for  a  local  school,  he 
can  well  support  himself,  and  render  as  much  service  to  the  mission,  as 
if  he  were  under  the  immediate  direction  of  the  Board. 

The  general  plans  and  operations  of  the  mission  are  all  known  to  the 
Board  and  to  the  community.  Of  the  state  and  appearance,  particularly 
of  the  establishment  at  Brainerd,  as  found  in  December,  a  detailed  and 
authentic  account  is  given  in  the  Report  of  the  Visiting  Committee,  the 
greater  part  of  which  it  is  deemed  fitting  to  quote  in  this  place: 

"Since  the  date,"  (say  the  Committee)  of  the  last  Report,,  (which  was 
in  June  1818,)  "there  have  been  considerable  improvements  made.  Four 
cabins  have  been  built  for  the  accommodation  of  the  pupils,  besides  a 
large  cabin  house  in  which  the  girls  are  taught.  There  is  also  the  frame 
of  a  barn  raised,  and  covered,  which  will  be  commodious  and  useful  when 
finished.  The  whole  farm  is  inclosed  by  excellent  fences,  and  about 
thirteen  acres  of  fresh  land  have  been  cleared;  eight  of  which,  we  are 
informed,  have  been  done  by  the  labor  of  boys  in  the  school,  in  the  morn 
ing  and  evening.  The  last  season  the  land  was  cultivated  as  follows; 
six  acres  in  wheat,  five  in  rye,  and  thirty  in  Indian  corn,  besides  pota 
toes,  turnips,  and  a  large  garden. 

"The  live  stock  belonging  to  the  station,  was  reported  as  being  pretty 
numerous;  and  what  they  saw  was  in  good  condition.  There  are  ten 
horses,  seventy  horned  cattle,  thirty  sheep,  and  hogs  of  all  sizes  about  one 
hundred  and  fifty.  There  belongs  to  the  mission  some  other  property,  as 
a  cart,  three  wagons,  a  yoke  of  oxen,  farming  utensils,  &c. 

"Since  your  Committee  last  visited  this  station  the  school  has  been 
divided,  and  the  girls  and  boys  are  now  taught  in  separate  houses.  The 
Rev.  William  Chamberlin  teaches  the  boys,  and  directs  them  when  out 
of  school.  Miss  Sarah  Hoyt  teaches  the  girls,  and  directs  their  employ 
ment,  when  out  of  school.  The  number  of  boys  in  the  school  is  42,  the 
number  of  the  girls  is  25.  A  fevy  more  are,  as  we  are  informed,  entered 
in  each  school,  who  are  now  absent,  some  on  visits  to  their  parents,  and 
some  on  account  of  sickness,  and  for  fear  of  it.  The  pupils  are  under 
the  age  of  fifteen,  except  two  males,  who  may  be  twenty  or  upwards,  and 
two  females,  who  may  be  about  eighteen  or  nineteen.  A  great  many  of 
them  have  entered  since  our  last  visit,  and  some  of  them  have  been  here 
but  a  short  time.  The  great  majority  are  making  very  pleasing  progress, 
both  in  their  studies,  and  in  learning  to  speak  the  English  language. 

"The  order  and  good  conduct  of  these  children  in  school,  at  the  table, 
and  in  the  church,  are  truly  exemplary.  Their  cheerfulness  in  yielding 
obedience  to  all  that  is  required  of  them,  either  in  or  out  of  school,  is 
rarely  exceeded  by  the  best  governed  children  among  ourselves. 

"The  facility  with  which  they  learn  to  write,  has  often  been  remarked: 
the  specimens,  which  we  have  seen  of  the  writing  of  the  present  schol 
ars,  confirm  the  fact.  Their  progress  in  spelling  and  reading,  is  encour 
aging,  considering  the  difficulty  they  have  to  encounter,  in  speaking  and 
pronouncing  our  language.  Many  of  them  have  committed  to  memory 
a  part  of  the  Assembly's  Catechism,  and  some  chapters  of  the  New  Tes 
tament,  which  they  repeated  with  ease.  „ 

"An  excellence  in  the  management  of  this  missionary  station  is,  that  the 
pupils  are  not  only  taught  reading,  writing,  and  arithmetic,  with  the  prin^ 


284  REPORT.  1820. 

ciples  and  worship  inculcated  in  the  word  of  God;  but  they  are  instructed 
in  the  most  useful  arts  of  civilized  life.  The  boys  learn  the  use  of  the 
hoe  and  the  axe;  while  the  girls  learn  the  use  of  the  spinning  wheel  and 
the  needle.  The  instructress  of  the  girls  informed  us,  that  since  the 
16th  of  March  last,  the  girls  had  made  eighty  garments,  such  as  shirts, 
pantaloons,  &>c.,  without  including  smaller  articles;  that  they  had  pieced 
thirteen  bedquilts,  and  quilted  nine.  We  examined  a  part  of  the  work, 
and  it  appeared  to  be  well  done. 

"Your  Committee,  on  their  first  visit,  were  not  more  affected  by  any 
thing  relating  to  the  whole  mission,  than  by  the  infant  church,  here  plant 
ed  in  the  wilderness.  We  are  happy  to  find,  that  it  has  increased,  by  the 
addition  of  such  as  we  hope  shall  be  saved.  Four  of  the  natives,  and 
two  blacks,  have  made  a  public  profession  of  religion,  since  our  last  visit. 
We  have  also  seen  or  heard  of  five  or  six,  who  were  under  strong  impres 
sions  from  the  Spirit  of  God;  some  of  whom  give  evidence  of  being  the 
hopeful  subjects  of  a  saving  change  of  heart.  All,  with  whom  we  have 
met,  converse  with  great  freedom,  concerning  their  lost  and  helpless  state, 
as  sinners,  their  views  and  feelings  respecting  the  Savior,  and  with  an 
artless  simplicity  not  easily  to  be  described. 

"Among  the  various  circumstances,  that  must  interest  the  feelings  of 
any  Christian  friend  of  man,  who  may  visit  this  station,  a  short  detail  of 
one  or  two  will  not  be  unacceptable  to  the  Board.  Last  Christmas  a 
young  man,  called  John  Arch,  who  had  been  born  and  bred  in  the  moun 
tains  near  the  confines  of  South  Carolina,  happened  to  be  at  Knoxville, 
where  he  met  with  Mr.  Hall,  who  informed  him  that  there  was  a  school 
in  the  nation.  As  soon  as  he  went  home,  he  took  his  gun,  and  wandered 
off  in  search  of  the  place,  which  we  hope  has  proved  to  him  the  house  of 
God  and  the  gate  of  heaven.  After  travelling  one  hundred  and  fifty 
miles,  he  arrived  at  the  missionary  station;  told  the  missionaries  he  had 
come  to  attend  school;  and  offered  them  his  gun,  his  only  property,  for 
clothes.  His  appearance  was  so  wild  and  forbidding;  that  the  missiona 
ries  said  they  hesitated  'to  receive  him,  inasmuch  as  he  was  upwards  of 
20  years  of  age.  He  would  not  be  put  off.  They  took  him  upon  trial. 
In  a  short  time,  he  discovered  a  thoughtful  concern  about  his  soul,  and 
now  gives  the  most  satisfactory  evidence  of  a  gracious  change  of  heart. 
His  thirst  for  knowledge  is  great.  He  has  learned  to  read  and  write  well; 
though  he  has  not  been  more  than  ten  months  at  school.  Sometime  after 
he  became  serious,  he  was  accused  of  doing  an  improper  act;  he  was 
conscious  of  innocence,  and  could  not  well  brook  the  false  charge.  That 
evening  he  was  missing;  and  the  next  morning  the  conclusion  was,  that 
he  had  gone  off.  But  about  nine  o'clock  he  came  in.  Upon  being  ques 
tioned  respecting  his  absence,  he  gave  the  following  account.  'I  felt 
angry,  and  knew  that  it  was  wicked;  but  I  could  not  suppress  it;  and  I 
went  to  seek  the  Savior,  that  he  might  reconcile  my  heart.'  It  appeared, 
that  he  had  been  praying,  and  wrestling  with  God  all  night.  He  says  he 
often  feels  strongly  inclined  to  tell  the  Indians  about  God  and  the  Savior; 
but  he  knows  so  little,  he  thinks  it  would  not  please  God.  He  desires  to 
obtain  an  education  that  he  may  preach. 

"Are  not  the  wilderness  and  the  solitary  place  beginning  to  be  glad,  and 
the  desert  to  rejoice  and  blossom  as  the  rose?  Here  the  ransomed  of  the 
Lord  are  returning  and  coming  to  Zion  with  songs,  literally  with  songs 


1820.  REPORT.  285 

and  everlasting  joy.  They  have  obtained  joy  and  gladness,  and  sorrow 
and  sighing  have  fled  away.  It  is  enough  to  warm  a  heart  of  ice,  and 
dissolve  a  heart  of  stone,  to  see  and  hear  from  these  late  savages  of  the 
forest,  the  evidence  of  all  conquering  grace  on  their  hearts.  Has  not 
the  Board,  has  not  the  Christian  public,  already  received  an  ample  reward 
for  all  the  toil  and  expense,  to  which  they  have  submitted  even  if  another 
immortal  being  should  not  be  gathered  into  the  fold  of  the  great  Shepherd 
and  Bishop  of  souls. 

"On  the  whole,  your  Committee  are  more  and  more  convinced  of  the 
practicability  of  civilizing  and  christianizing  this  long  neglected  people. 
They  are  capable  of  every  noble  feeling  of  our  nature  to  a  high  degree: 
of  the  warmest  affection,  tenderness,  and  gratitude.  The  children  are 
sprightly  and  sagacious,  and  on  many  subjects  discover  an  excellent 
judgment. 

"The  sacrament  of  the  Lord's  supper  was  administered  the  day  after 
we  arrived,  it  being  the  Sabbath.  The  congregation  contained  more 
than  one  hundred;  they  behaved  with  great  decorum:  Father  Hoyt  pre 
sented  the  little  Osage  captive,  whom  he  has  adopted,  for  baptism.  He 
was  called  John  Osage  Ross." 

This  witness  unquestionably  is  true,  and  should  be  recorded  for  the 
praise  of  divine  grace. 

At  the  time  of  the  first  Report  referred  to  by  the  Visiting  Committee, 
the  buildings  of  the  establishment  were  described  by  the  Treasurer  upon 
the  spot,  only  a  few  days  before,  as  follows: 

"The  mission  house  is  situated  about  50  rods  southwest  of  the  creek 
Chickamaugah.  It  fronts  the  southeast;  has  the  dining  hall  and  kitchen 
in  the  rear;  and  several  log  cabins  in  each  wing,  for  the  accommodation 
of  the  children  and  some  of  the  missionaries.  There  are  several  other  log 
buildings  for  store  rooms,  corn  houses  and  stables.  The  school  house  is 
thirty  rods  to  the  southwest,  and  is  sufficiently  large  to  accommodate  100 
scholars  on  the  Lancasterian  plan,  and  to  answer  for  a  place  of  public 
worship  on  the  Sabbath." 

"There  have  since  been  built,"  say  the  Committee,  "four  cabins  for 
the  accommodation  of  the  pupils,  and  a  large  cabin-house  in  which  the 
girls  are  taught."  Also,  "the  frame  of  a  barn  is  raised  and  covered." 
And  since  the  Committee  were  there,  besides  finishing  the  barn,  they 
have  erected  a  house  for  Mr.  Conger's  family,  and  a  warehouse  about  six 
miles  distant,  on  the  banks  of  the  Tennessee,  for  the  purpose  of  receiving 
corn  and  other  articles  conveyed  for  them  upon  that  river;  and  a  saw-mill 
is  in  forwardness  with  some  other  buildings. 

To  the  farm,  of  which  about  sixty  acres  were  in  a  state  for  cultivation, 
when  the  Visiting  Committee  were  there,  large  additions  and  improve 
ments  have  been  made,  and  are  making.  The  design,  indeed,  is  entered 
upon  with  spirit,  to  raise  from  the  farm,  as  soon  and  as  fast  as  possible,  a 
large  and  increasing  proportion  of  the  corn,  and  other  productions  of  the 
soil,  necessary  for  the  establishment. 

The  number  of  scholars  in  the  two  schools  at  Brainerd  has  not  been 
definitively  stated  in  any  recent  communication;  but  the  general  repre 
sentation  has  been,  that  the  schools  are  full,  and  in  a  highly  satisfactory 
state. 

The  gracious  influences  from  on  high,  which  have  been  so  signally 


286  REPORT.  1820. 

the  glory  of  this  mission,  appear  to  be  still  continued.  The  young  man 
John  Arch,  of  whom  so  interesting  an  account  is  given  by  the  Visiting 
Committee,  has  since  been  received  to  the  church.  Another  hopeful 
convert  also  has  been  received,  David  Brown,  a  brother  of  Catharine. 
To  your  Committee,  and  to  many  others,  who  have  seen  him,  he  ap 
pears  to  be  a  youth  of  great  promise.  He  is  now  in  our  school  at 
Cornwall. 

The  whole  number,  gathered  from  the  wilderness  into  this  mission 
church,  and  thus  made  fellow  citizens  with  the  saints,  and  of  the  house 
hold  of  God,  including  four  or  five  black  persons,  is  about  twmty.  A 
considerable  number  more;  some  at  Brainerd,  and  some  at  other  places 
in  the  nation,  where  our  missionaries  have  bestowed  attention,  are  made 
subjects  of  deep  religious  impressions;  and  several  of  them  hopefully  of 
renovating  grace. 

At  Springplace  also — and  it  is  with  high  and  heartfelt  pleasure,  that 
your  Committee  report  and  record  the  fact — at  Springplace,  where  the 
Rev.  John  Gambold,  the  venerable  Moravian  missionary,  with  the  excel 
lent  helper,  his  wife,  has  been  for  years  laboring  for  the  good  of  the  Chero- 
kees,  with  trTe  spirit  of  humility,  devotion  and  perseverance,  by  which  the 
Union  of  Brethren  has  been  long  and  eminently  distinguished, — the  power 
of  divine  grace  has  lately  been  manifested;  and  three  or  four  persons  of 
consideration  and  influence,  in  that  part  of  the  nation,  have  come  as 
believers  to  the  ordinances  of  Christ;  and  others  give  serious  attention  to 
divine  instruction. 

In  the  Report  of  the  last  year,  the  design  was  submitted  of  establishing 
at  eligible  places,  in  different  parts  of  the  nation,  local  schools,  in  connex 
ion  with  the  primary  establishment  at  Brainerd;  and  it  was  stated,  that 
for  one  school  of  this  kind  a  place  had  been  selected,  and  preparations 
were  in  forwardness.  This  station,  called  Talony,  was  assigned  to  Mr. 
Moody  Hall,  who,  in  the  infancy  of  the  mission,  bore,  with  the  Rev.  Mr. 
Kingsbury,  and  Mr.  Williams,  the  burden  and  heat  of  the  day.  A  house 
for  his  family,  and  a  school  house  have  been  erected;  and  the  school  was 
opened  on  the  ninth  of  May.  In  a  letter,  dated  June  30th,  Mr.  Hall 
says: 

"About  twenty  entered  the  school  the  first  week;  and  it  has  gradually 
increased  to  fifty.  These,  however,  do  not  all  attend  constantly.  A  num 
ber  probably  entered  from  curiosity,  not  intending  to  learn.  There  are 
about  thirty-five  who  regularly  attend,  and  undoubtedly  will  continue 
their  attendance,  if  the  schools  is  judiciously  managed.  The  school 
I  think  very  promising,  and  the  natives  generally  appear  highly  satis 
fied." 

"You  will  doubtless  expect  to  hear  some  particulars  relative  to  the 
general  management  of  the  school.  It  is  always  opened  and  closed  by 
reading  a  portion  of  Scripture,  singing  and  prayer;  and  these  exercises 
are  often  preceded  by  such  remarks  as  most  sensibly  strike  my  mind.  A 
number  of  the  neighbors  are  generally  present  at  the  evening  exercises. 
Three  hours  are  spent  in  the  fore  part  of  the  day,  and  three  in  the  latter 
part,  in  teaching,  Saturdays  excepted.  I  require  all  the  scholars  to  attend 
meetings  on  the  Sabbath,  when  they  are  specially  taught  the  principles  of 
our  holy  religion.  Their  progress  in  general  is  good,  fully  equal  to  my 
expectations,  considering  their  advantages. 


1820.  REPORT.  287 

"We  have  three  orphan  boys  in  our  family;  and  we  have  engaged  to 
take  one  or  two  more.  I  presume,  if  our  circumstances  would  admit  of  it, 
and  we  had  liberty,  15  or  20  boys  and  girls,  who  are  real  objects  of  charity, 
might  be  obtained  immediately.  Those  we  have  give  us  great  satisfaction 
and  are  truly  dear  to  us. 

"Since  the  school  house  has  been  in  a  situation  to  be  occupied,  meet 
ings  have  been  constantly  held  in  it,  and  from  75  to  100  have  attended. 

"My  labors  are  great,  and  constantly  increasing.  There  is  enough  at 
this  place  on  the  Sabbath,  for  two  or  three  active  servants  of  the  Lord 
to  do.  1  have  generally  taught  a  Sabbath  school  for  the  blacks,  and  oc 
casionally  several  adult  Cherokees  have  been  instructed  on  that  day.  I 
spend  half  an  hour,  both  before  and  after  meeting,  with  the  children  of 
the  school." 

This  school  at  Talony  was  established  in  compliance  with  the  earnest 
solicitations  of  the  principal  men  of  that  village  and  the  vicinity:  solicita 
tions,  not  less  earnest,  have  been  made  from  other  considerable  places 
in  the  nation;  and  particularly  from  the  neighborhood  of  Fort  Armstrong 
in  the  south,  near  the  Creeks,  and  distant  from  Brainerd  about  60  miles; 
and  from  Creek  Path  on  the  west  side  of  the  nation,  about  100  miles 
distant. 

Early  in  December  such  representations  were  made  to  the  missionaries, 
of  the  dispositions  and  desires  of  the  people  near  Fort  Armstrong,  as 
engaged  very  serious  attention.  These  representations  were  afterwards 
repeated,  and  it  was  deemed  advisable,  that  Mr.  Chamberlin  should 
make  a  visit  to  the  place.  On  his  return,  the  following  account  was 
entered  in  the  Journal. 

"March  24.  This  evening  brother  Chamberlain  returned  from  Fort 
Armstrong.  In  his  opinion,  it  is  a  very  favorable  and  important  time  to 
establish  a  local  school  there. 

"In  an  interview  with  the  principal  chief  of  that  district,  brother  C. 
inquired  if  the  people  wanted  a  school.  He  answered  by  the  interpreter, 
that  they  did  not  merely  want  a  school,  but  that  they  wanted  one  VERY 
MUCH.  He  said,  they  would  be  very  glad  of  a  large  school,  like  that  at 
Brainerd,  and  proposed  a  place  for  it  on  the  Coosa  river,  where  he  said 
supplies  of  all  kinds  might  be  brought  by  water.  On  being  told,  we 
were  not  able  to  give  them  such  a  school, — at  least  for  the  present, — but 
could  only  furnish  a  teacher  for  such  children  as  could  board  at  home,  he 
said  they  would  be  very  thankful  for  such  a  school:  that  he  had  a  small 
cabin,  situated  precisely  where  they  wanted  the  school,  which  he  would 
give  us  for  the  use  of  the  teacher;  and  that  himself  and  neighbors  would 
build  the  school  house. 

"So  far  as  could  be  ascertained,  the  chief  spoke  the  mind  of  the  whole 
district.  All  were  agreed  that  it  would  be  best  to  have  the  school  at  the 
place  named  by  the  chief,  which  is  on  the  Chatooga  Creek,  about  six  or 
eight  miles  from  Fort  Armstrong;  and  brother  C.  gave  encouragement  to 
send  a  teacher  in  a  few  days.  He  also  understood,  that  the  Path-killer 
intended  to  ask  for  such  a  school,  in  his  neighborhood.  This  aged  war 
rior  and  king,  is  telling  his  people,  wherever  he  goes,  that  schools  are 
very  good  for  them,  and  they  must  keep  their  children  at  school  until 
their  teachers  say  they  have  learned  enough;  which,  he  tells  them,  will 
require  atjeast  four  years.  This  venerable  old  man,  who  is  now  so  much 


283  REPORT.  1820. 

engaged  for  the  instruction  of  his  people,  we  understand,  has  never  him 
self  had  the  least  instruction  in  a  school." 

On  hearing  this  statement,  it  was  resolved,  that  Mr.  Milo  Hoyt  should 
go  to  Chatooija  and  commence  a  school  without  delay.  Accordingly  he 
left  Brainerd  for  the  purpose,  on  the  3d  of  April,  taking  with  him  his  wife 
and  younger  brother  Darius.  In  a  letter  dated  June  9th,  the  Superintend 
ent  writes: 

"The  number  of  scholars  has  been  small, — seldom  or  never  more  than 
17  or  18  at  a  time.  Still  we  have  great  hope  that  it  will  increase,  and 
much  good  be  done.  There  are  many  things,  which  render  it  desirable 
to  maintain  our  position  there,  even  should  the  number  of  children  con 
tinue  to  be  small.  That  section  of  the  country  appears  to  be  in  greater 
darkness  than  almost  any  other  part  of  the  nation;  if  we  except,  perhaps, 
the  mountains  towards  Carolina.  It  is  in  the  neighborhood  of  the  Creeks, 
has  considerable  intercourse  with  them,  and  is  remote  from  any  settlement 
of  whites.  Several  natives  of  influence  reside  there,  who  are  very  anxious 
to  have  the  people  instructed." 

In  the  latter  part  of  January,  David  and  Catharine  Brown  went  from 
Brainerd  to  Creek  Path  to  visit  their  father,  then  sick.  In  the  Journal, 
March  4,  is  the  following  passage: 

"Sister  Catharine  and  her  brother  David  returned.  Their  father, 
whom  they  went  to  visit  on  account  of  his  ill  health,  has  so  far  recovered, 
as  to  be  able  to  come  up  with  them.  Catharine  says  David  seized  his 
Bible  as  soon  as  he  reached  home,  and  began  to  read  and  interpret  to  his 
father  and  mother  and  other  members  of  the  family,  exhorting  them  all 
to  attend  to  it  as  the  word  of  God;  to  repent  of  their  sins,  which  he  told 
them  were  many  and  very  great;  to  believe  on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and 
become  his  followers,  &>c.  By  his  father's  consent  he  maintained  the 
worship  of  God  in  the  family,  morning  and  evening,  and  at  table.  He 
conversed  freely  with  their  friends  and  neighbors,  and  was  not  ashamed  to 
own  himself  a  Christian,  or  afraid  to  warn  others  to  flee  from  the  wrath  to 
come.  Several,  in  that  neighborhood,  appear  serious,  and  disposed  to 
inquire  after  the  way  of  truth  and  life." 

Mr.  Brown,  the  father,  brought  a  letter,  signed  by  himself,  and  others, 
and  in  terms  as  follows: 

"We,  the  headmen,  chiefs  of  Creek  Path  town,  Cherokee  nation,  have 
this  day  assembled  ourselves  together  for  the  purpose  of  devising  some 
plan  for  the  education  of  our  children.  We  daily  witness  the  good  effects 
arising  from  education,  and  therefore  are  extremely  anxious  to  have  a 
school  in  our  neighborhood,  as  the  distance  from  this  part  of  the  nation 
to  Chickamaugah  is  so  great,  as  not  to  suit  our  convenience.  We  there 
fore  solicit  your  aid  in  carrying  our  plan  into  execution.  We  can  raise 
twenty  or  perhaps  twenty-five  children.  You  will  please  write  us  imme 
diately  on  the  recept  of  this.  Given  under  our  hands,  this  16th  Feb 
ruary,  1820." 

It  was  resolved,  that  Mr.  Butrick  should  go  to  Creek  Path.  On  the 
llth  March  he  left  Brainerd,  taking  John  Arch  with  him:  and  on  the  8th 
of  April  he  wrote  a  letter  to  his  brethren,  in  which  he  gives  the  following 
account: 

When  we  left  Brainerd,  we  lost  our  path,  travelled  till  sometime  after 
dark,  and  came  to  the  road  near  Little  Meat's.  We  stopped,  and  were 


1820.  REPORT. 

greatly  refreshed  by  the  kindness  of  our  dear  Cherokee  friends.  We 
left  that  place  early  on  Sabbath  morning,  and  went  to  brother  Hicks's. 
The  congregation  there  was  not  large. 

"On  Monday  we  travelled  to  Mr.  Pardue's;  visited  Path  killer  on  the 
way;  Tuesday  to  Mr.  Burn's;  got  a  recruit  of  provisions.  Wednesday, 
to  a  large  hickory  blown  down  by  the  wind,  where  we  had  a  very  com 
fortable  lodging.  Thence  to  Mr.  Scott's; — Friday  to  a  large  white  oak 
log  in  the  woods,  between  Shoat's  and  Cox's;  Saturday  to  captain  J. 
Brown's.  We  told  him  our  business,  and  he  informed  others.  Sabbath,  we 
came  to  his  father's,  where  we  were  kindly  received;  but  it  being  late  in 
the  day  we  had  no  meeting:  Monday  capt.  J.  Brown  came; — told  me  he 
had  seen  the  chiefs; — that  they  were  glad  we  had  come,  and  wished  me  to 
accompany  him  the  next  day — select  a  place  for  the  school  house — and 
meet  them  at  an  appointed  place.  On  Tuesday  I  went  with  captain  J. 
Brown,  but  referred  it  to  him  to  say,  where  the  house  should  stand.  He 
selected  a  place.  We  met  the  chiefs,  and  I  told  my  errand.  They  told 
me  they  would  do  as  1  had  stated,  and  appointed  the  next  Friday  to  begin 
the  house.  On  Friday  they  assembled,  old  men  and  children.  They 
cut  the  timber  and  put  up  the  house,  making  the  inside  22  by  17.  Sat 
urday,  they  made  the  boards  without  a  saw;  covered  the  roof;  put  up 
most  of  the  chimney;  cut  out  the  door;  split  part  of  the  puncheons  for 
the  floor;  put  in  the  steps;  and  hewed  down  the  house  inside.  I  think 
the  house  is  nearly  or  quite  as  high  as  that  at  Brainerd.  We  appointed 
a  meeting  on  the  next  day. 

"Sabbath  we  met — perhaps  thirty  Cherokees,  and  a  number  of  black 
and  white  people. 

"On  Monday,  Tuesday  and  Wednesday,  a  less  number  worked  on  the 
house,  made  a  good  floor,  door,  hearth,  and  back;  finished  laying  up  the 
chimney;  chinked  the  floor;  made  benches,  &c.;  Thursday  we  began 
school,  having  eight  scholars  the  first  three  days. 

"On  the  Sabbath,  we  attended  meeting.  Perhaps  60  or  70  Cherokees 
attended.  I  began  a  Sunday  school  for  the  blacks,  with  10  or  15  scholars. 
Monday  about  20  scholars  came:  since  that  we  have  had  this  week  about 
27,  in  all  upwards  of  80  different  scholars.  Old  Mr.Guntertold  me  to-day, 
he  expected  to  send  10  in  a  month  from  this  time.  Last  night  the  people 
had  a  talk;  Path  Killer  advised  them  to  be  attentive  to  our  instruction,  and 
to  give  their  children  into  our  care;  telling  them,  that  they  must  continue 
their  children  with  us  at  least  four  years,  in  order  to  profit  them. 

"This  morning  they  desired  me  to  meet  them  at  the  store.  I  went; 
saw  Path  Killer.  I  cannot  but  love  him. 

"The  people  here  from  the  oldest  to  the  youngest,  appear  anxious  to 
receive  instruction,  and  some  appear  really  inquiring  after  the  truth.  All 
the  people,  whom  we  see,  receive  us  as  their  nearest  friends. 

"I  have  written  this  letter  in  the  singular,  as  if  no  one  were  with  me; 
but  our  dear  brother  John  has  done  much  more  than  I  have.  He  has  not 
only  done  all  that  I  have  by  interpreting,  but  has  done  much  him 
self." 

Speaking  of  the  progress,  which  the  children  have  made  in  these  few 
days,  Mr.  Butrick  says:  "About  fourteen  who  knew  none  of  their  let 
ters,  have  learned  them,  and  read  in  syllables  of  two  letters,  and  some 
in  three." 

37 


290  REPORT.  1820. 

The  above  appears  to  have  been  written  on  Saturday.  Sabbath  even 
ing  he  adds:  "To-day  we  have  had  a  large  collection  of  people  for  this 
country,  about  100  Cherokees  and  blacks." 

Referring  to  this  station,  the  Rev.  Mr.  Hoyt,  June  9th,  says: 

"The  first  school  being  well  filled  with  scholars  to  overflowing,  they 
requested  another.  Catharine,  by  our  approbation,  offered  to  teach  a 
school  of  females,  if  they  would  prepare  a  house.  The  news  was  re 
ceived  with  enthusiastic  joy.  In  four  days  a  great  number  collected  to 
build  the  house — with  surprising  despatch  they  finished  one  of  the  same 
dimensions  as  the  former,  and  within  a  few  rods  of  it,  and  immediately 
sent  a  messenger  for  Catharine.  She  left  us  the  last  of  May,  with  the 
expectation  of  commencing  a  school  immediately  on  her  arrival  at  Creek 
Path.  Religious  instruction  appears  also  to  be  eagerly  sought  by  all  the 
people  in  that  district.  Hopes  are  entertained  of  the  saving  conversion 
of  several;  and  brother  Butrick  has  written  for  our  advice  respecting  the 
immediate  formation  of  a  church  there." 

These  statements  arid  representations  shew  at  once  the  spirit  and  ope 
rations  of  the  mission,  the  dispositions  of  the  Cherokee  chiefs  and  people, 
and  the  kindness  of  God  our  Savior;  and,  in  these  several  respects,  were 
deemed  by  your  Committee,  too  interesting  to  be  tedious,  though  particu 
lar,  and  in  some  instances  minute. 

From  the  whole,  it  will  be  seen,  that  the  "field  is  indeed  white  already 
to  harvest;  and  he  that  reapeth  receiveth  wages,  and  gathereth  fruit  unto 
life  eternal."  Compared,  however,  with  the  plenteousness  of  the  har 
vest  the  laborers  are  yet  few;  and  their  hearts  and  their  hands  are  filled 
and  burdened.  Both  Mr.  Butrick  and  Mr.  Milo  Hoyt  engaged  in  the 
new  schools,  under  the  pressure  of  urgent  circumstances;  and  as  soon  as 
they  can  be  relieved  by  others,  who  shall  go  to  the  help  of  the  mission, 
they  will  be  otherwise  employed. 

The  purpose  of  Mr.  Hoyt  has  already  been  mentioned.  Mr.  Butrick 
has  for  a  considerable  time,  been  giving  what  attention  he  could  to  the 
acquisition  of  the  language,  with  a  view  to  his  being  chiefly  employed  in 
visiting  families  and  neighborhoods,  and  preaching,  without  needing  an 
interpreter,  in  the  different  parts  of  the  nation.  This  has,  from  the  first, 
been  regarded  as  an  important  part  of  the  general  plan  of  operations; 
and  its  importance  is  continually  more  and  more  strongly  perceived  and 
felt.  With  all  his  other  avocations,  his  proficiency  in  the  language  is 
such,  that  he  converses  and  discourses  in  it  with  considerable  facility; 
and,  with  the  assistance  of  David  Brown,  he  has  composed  a  Cherokee 
Spelling  Book,  which  has  been  printed  for  the  use  of  the  mission. 

In  the  schools  of  the  mission,  there  are  now  more  than  200  pupils.  In 
other  places,  schools  are  wanted.  Indeed,  throughout  the  nation  there 
is  a  general  and  strong  impression  in  favor  of  having  their  children  in 
structed  in  the  learning  and  arts  of  civilized  life;  and  were  sufficient 
means  supplied,  the  greater  part  of  the  children,  of  suitable  age,  might 
at  once  be  brought  under  a  system  of  instruction. 

A  disposition  favorable  to  preaching,  is  also  prevailing.  As  appears 
from  what  has  now  been  cited,  wherever  the  missionaries  go,  they  find 
a  welcome  reception;  and  people  readily  come  together  to  hear  them.  At 
several  places,  also,  besides  the  places  of  the  schools,  they  have  regular 
opportunities  for  preaching.  In  their  Journal,  Dec.  5th,  they  say: 


1820.  REPORT.  291 

"Brother  Butrick,  who  went  out  yesterday  to  attend  an  appointment, 
ten  miles  south  of  us,  returned  this  evening.  Preaching  at  that  place  is 
once  in  four  weeks,  and  brother  Reece  generally  attends  as  interpreter. 
The  attention  of  the  people  in  that  neighborhood  is  not  abated.  Last 
evening  four  came  to  the  place  of  meeting  on  foot,  a  distance  of  ten 
miles,  five  of  which  they  walked  after  dark,  fording  one  large  creek.  It 
being  too  dark  to  see  any  thing,  that  was  not  white,  one  went  before, 
feeling  out  the  path  with  his  feet,  and  the  others  followed  in  succession, 
by  each  observing  the  blanket  of  his  conductor. 

"Brother  C.  is  absent  to  preach  at  brother  Hicks's.  It  is  our  inten 
tion  to  have  but  one  appointment  abroad  on  each  Sabbath;  but  in  conse 
quence  of  one  appointment  being  postponed,  to  attend  the  sacrament 
here,  we  had  two  this  day." 

In  the  great  and  beneficent  design  of  bringing  the  Cherokees  into  the 
pale  of  christianized  society,  the  Rev.  Mr.  Gambold  is  an  inestimable 
worker.  Spring  Place,  where  he  resides,  is  only  about  35  miles  distant 
from  Brainerd;  and  from  the  commencement  of  our  mission  there  has 
been,  between  him  and  our  missionaries,  the  most  perfect  good  under 
standing,  and  affectionate  intercourse  and  fellowship.  In  the  Brainerd 
Journal,  November  9,  1819,  is  a  passage,  which  well  deserves  a  place  in 
this  Report. 

"The  Rev.  Abraham  Steiner,  of  the  Society  of  United  Brethren  in 
the  southern  states,  made  us  a  friendly  visit.  He  brought  an  affectionate 
letter  to  us  from  the  directors  of  that  society.  They  desire,  that  no  sec 
tarian  differences  may  be  known  among  the  heathen,  and  propose  a  re 
ciprocal  communion  and  fellowship  between  their  church  and  ours  among 
this  people,  and  a  mutual  intercourse  of  members,  if  any  should  so  alter 
their  residence,  as  to  render  such  a  change  convenient  and  expedient. 
They  also  desire,  that  no  children  dismissed  for  bad  conduct  from  one 
school  may  be  received  by  the  other,  except  by  request  from  the  direc 
tors  of  the  school  from  which  they  are  dismissed. 

"We  replied  that  these  proposals  were  agreeable  to  the  desires  of  our 
directors,  so  far  as  we  were  acquainted  with  them,  and  were  in  perfect 
accordance  with  our  wishes.  Mr.  Steiner  has,  for  a  number  of  years, 
been  warmly  engaged  for  the  christianization  of  this  tribe. 

"In  1799  he  was  sent  out  by  the  directors  of  that  society,  to  ask  "per 
mission  to  establish  a  school  in  that  nation.  He  pressed  the  subject  with 
great  zeal  in  the  national  council,  backed  by  the  officers  of  government, 
but  was  utterly  refused. 

"In  1800  he  came  out  again,  renewed  his  application,  and  was  again 
refused;  but,  before  the  close  of  the  council  two  influential  chiefs  agreed 
to  patronise  the  school,  independently  of  the  national  council,  and  offered 
a  place  near  the  residence  of  one  of  them,  on  land  which  he  had  cleared. 
The  other  chiefs  did  not  after  this  press  their  opposition;  and  shortly 
after  the  mission  at  Spring  place  was  commenced,  which  has  continued 
without  suspension,  though  at  times  with  great  difficulty,  ever  since. 

"Mr.  Steiner  says,  that  no  wagon  road  had  ever  been  cut,  or  a  wagon 
entered  the  nation,  till  sometime  after  this.  The  chief  on  whose  land 
the  mission  was  established,  built  the  first  wagon,  for  which  he  was  se 
verely  censured  by  the  council,  and  forbidden  the  use  of  such  a  vehicle. 
But  he  did  not  regard  their  mandate.  The  objection  was;  'If  you  have 


292  REPORT.  1820. 

a  wagon,  there  must  be  wagon  roads; — and  if  wagon  roads  the  whites 
will  be  in  amongst  us.'  Mr.  Steiner  has  been  absent  from  the  nation  16 
years.  The  improvement  since  that  time,  has  been,  he  says,  most  de 
lightful  and  astonishing." 

The  sentiments  of  these  proposals  are  worthy  of  the  respected  society, 
from  which  they  emanate;  and  perfectly  accordant  with  them  are  the 
views  and  feelings,  which,  from  the  first,  your  Committee  have  been  stu 
dious  to  cherish  in  their  own  minds,  to  inspire  in  the  breasts  of  the  mis 
sionaries,  to  infuse  into  the  proceedings  of  this  and  our  other  missions, 
and  to  cultivate  and  promote  in  all  their  intercourse  and  transactions 
with  other  societies  and  connections.  And  the  representations  here 
given  of  the  altered  state  and  disposition  of  the  Cherokees  must  strike 
every  mind  with  great  force,  and  press  home  to  every  heart  most  powerful 
motives  to  seek  their  good. 

MISSION  TO  THE  CHOCTAWS. — "The  Rev.  Mr.  Kingsbury's  acquaint 
ance  with  the  native  character,  his  high  standing  in  the  esteem  and  con 
fidence  of  both  red  men  and  white, — and  the  experience,  which  he  had 
in  commencing  and  advancing  the  establishment  at  Brainerd,  combined 
to  render  it,  in  the  view  of  the  Committee,  highly  important  that  the 
superintendence  of  the  Choctaw  mission  should  be  committed  to  him." 
Such  was  the  statement  made  in  the  Report,  two  years  ago,  at  the  com 
mencement  of  this  mission;  and  your  Committee  think  it  right  now  to 
say,  that  the  confidence  thus  expressed  has  been  fully  justified,  and  the 
anticipations  thus  made  public  have  even  been  surpassed,  in  what  has 
been  realized. 

The  place  now  called  Elliot,  the  primary  seat  of  this  mission,  is  within 
the  chartered  limits  of  the  state  of  Mississippi, — on  the  Yalo  Busha 
creek,  about  30  miles  above  its  junction  with  the  Yazoo;  400  miles  W. 
S,  W.  from  Brainerd, — 70  miles  west  of  the  Chickasaw  Agency, — 100 
north  of  the  Choctaw  Agency,  and  145  from  the  Walnut  Hills;  which 
last  mentioned  place  is  a  little  below  the  entrance  of  the  Yazoo  into  the 
Mississippi,  and  about  130  miles  above  Natchez. 

It  was  on  the  27th  of  June,  1818,  that  Mr.  Kingsbury,  and  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Williams,  arrived  at  this  place  from  Brainerd.  The  place  was  then 
an  entire  wilderness;  and  after  various  hindrances,  and  necessary  ar 
rangements,  the  first  tree  was  felled,  upon  the  spot  selected  for  the  estab 
lishment,  on  the  15th  of  August.  On  the  16th  of  the  same  month,  their 
first  log  house  was  erected,  for  the  lodgment  of  the  family.  On  the  29th, 
Mr.  Peter  Kanouse  and  his  brother  John  G.  Kanouse  and  his  wife,  from 
Rockaway,  N.  J.,  and  Mr.  Moses  Jewell  and  wife,  from  Chenango  Co. 
N.  Y.,  arrived  at  the  station,  as  assistants.  About  the  middle  of  the 
next  January,  Mr.  A.  V.  Williams,  from  Saratoga  Co.  N.  Y.  a  brother  of 
the  first  assistant,  joined  the  mission.  On  the  1st  of  the  ensuing  Feb 
ruary,  Miss  Sarah  B.  Varnum,  now  Mrs.  Kingsbury,  from  Dracut,  Mass., 
and  Miss  Judith  Chase,  now  Mrs.  Williams,  from  Cornish,  N.  H.,  were 
gratefully  welcomed  to  the  mission  family.  Six  months  after,  on  the  1st 
of  August,  the  mission  was  further  cheered  and  strengthened,  by  the  ar 
rival  of  Dr.  William  W.  Pride,  a  young  and  devoted  physician,  from 
Cambridge,  N.  Y.,  and  Mr.  Isaac  Fisk,  a  highly  approved  blacksmith 
and  farmer,  from  Holden,  Mass.  On  the  1st  of  July  last,  Mr.  Anson 


1820.  REPORT.  293 

Dyer  and  Mr.  Zechariah  Howes,  agriculturists  and  schoolmasters,  in 
the  prime  of  life,  reached  the  station,  from  Ashfield,  Mass.  Their  com 
panions 'on  the  journey,  Mr.  Joel  Wood,  of  like  qualifications,  and  his 
wife,  sister  of  the  Messrs.  Williams,  from  Salisbury,  N.  Y.,  were  left 
some  distance  behind,  on  account  of  sickness;  and  it  is  not  known  how 
long  they  have  been  detained. 

The  Rev.  Alfred  Wright,  who  was  mentioned  in  the  Report  of  the  last 
year,  as  being  designated  for  this  mission,  and  then  expected  to  proceed 
to  the  station  from  South  Carolina  before  winter,  owing  to  circumstances 
not  to  be  controlled,  found  it  necessary  to  defer  going  until  spring;  and, 
having  returned  to  visit  his  friends  in  New  England,  he  set  out  from  Col 
ombia,  Con.  June  1st,  with  instructions,  for  purposes  of  agency,  to  proceed 
leisurely  and  somewhat  circuitously,  to  Elliot.  He  was  at  Marietta,  in 
Ohio,  about  the  middle  of  August. 

On  Wednesday  of  the  last  week,  Messrs.  John  Smith,  Calvin  Cushman, 
and  Elijah  Bardwell,  with  their  wives  and  children,  substantial  farmers, 
and  two  of  them  accustomed  to  school  keeping,  aged  from  35  to  40,  of 
Goshen,  Mass,  and  Mr.  William  Hooper,  of  Berwick,  Me.  a  young  man,  a 
tanner  and  shoemaker,  and  well  qualified  also  to  act  as  a  schoolmaster 
and  catechist, — set  out  with  four  wagons  from  Goshen,  for  this  same 
mission. 

Mr.  Peter  Kanouse,  on  account  of  ill  health,  as  mentioned  in  the  last 
report,  left  the  station  about  five  weeks  after  his  arrival,  and  returned  to 
New  Jersey.  And  the  last  of  August,  a  year  ago,  his  brother,  Mr.  John 
G.  Kanouse,  who  did  not  consider  himself  engaged,  like  the  rest,  for  life, 
— returned  also,  with  his  wife,  from  the  mission. 

Only  a  week  after,  on  the  sixth  of  September,  the  mission  was  still  far 
ther  diminished  and  deeply  afflicted,  by  the  decease  of  the  younger  Mr. 
Williams.  His  disease  was  distressing  and  rapid,  but  his  mind  was 
steadfast  and  serene,  and  his  death  peaceful  and  consolatory.  In  the 
journal  the  following  very  affectionate  and  honorable  memorial  is  re 
corded: 

"Brother  A.  V.  Williams  had  cheerfully  devoted  himself  to  the  cause 
of  Christ  among  the  heathen.  Having  set  his  face  to  the  work,  he  cheer 
fully  endured  the  burdens  and  hardships  which  fell  to  his  lot.  While  on 
a  dying  bed,  he  was  asked  if  he  regretted  that  he  had  come  to  this  dis 
tant  land  to  labor  for  the  cause  of  Christ.  "Oh  no,"  he  replied  with  em 
phasis,  "I  only  regret  that  1  have  done  no  more  for  him."  Through  his 
whole  sickness  he  was  calm  and  resigned. 

"To  his  deeply  afflicted  wife,  and  to  his  brothers  and  sisters  in  the 
mission,  he  said;  "Let  your  light  shine — live  above  the  world — be  fervent 
in  spirit."  To  Mrs.  P.  the  Choctaw  woman,  who  we  hope  has  savingly 
embraced  the  Gospel,  he  said,  as  she  entered  the  room,"  Can  I  not  call 
you  a  dear  sister  in  Christ?  Jesus  is  my  friend;  I  hope  he  will  be  yours." 

"It  may  truly  be  said  of  him,  that  he  was  waiting  the  coming  of  his 
Lord.  And,  at  times,  he  would  say,  "oh  my  dear  Savior,  what  wait  I 
for?  why  dost  thou  so  long  delay  thy  coming."  Thus,  with  a  lively  hope, 
he  resigned  himself  to  the  arms  of  his  Savior,  and,  we  trust,  has  gone  to 
receive  the  reward  of  those,  who  continue  faithful  unto  the  end.  His 
memory  will  long  be  precious  to  us,  and  long  shall  we  bewail  the  loss  we 


294  REPORT.  1820. 

have  sustained.     May  the  Lord  of  the  harvest  raise  up  others,  of  a  similar 
spirit,  to  come  and  occupy  the  place,  vacant  by  his  death." 

This  beloved  and  lamented  youth,  was  hardly  nineteen  years  old,  when 
with  uncommon  maturity  of  mind,  and  strength  of  modest,  fervent,  and 
active  piety,  he  entered  the  service;  saying,  in  a  letter  written  at  the  time, 
"I  have  a  desire  to  do  all  the  good  I  can.  I  feel  willing  to  be  spent  in 
the  service  of  my  God."  His  revered  and  respected  father  could  say, — 
and  did  say, — in  answer  to  inquiries  with  respect  to  his  feelings  on  the 
subject:  "I  would  hereby,  and  do  hereby,  give  my  most  cordial  and  hearty 
approbation  to  his  joining  in  the  missionary  cause.  My  children  are  near 
and  dear  to  me.  But  I  trust  I  feel  as  though  I  received  them  from  God, 
and  have  given  them  back  to  him  in  the  holy  ordinance  of  baptism;  and 
T  am  willing  to  devote  them  to  him  for  the  service  of  the  poor  heathen,  if 
they  can  be  of  any  service.  Had  I  a  hundred  sons  and  daughters,  I 
should  not  think  the  sacrifice  too  great  to  devote  them,  for  the  salvation 
of  one  poor  heathen.  A  better  life  than  the  life  of  man  has  been  laid 
down  for  them.  Shall  I  withhold  a  son,  or  a  daughter,  if  God  calls  them, 
and  they  can  be  of  any  service?  God  forbid.  Take  them,  therefore, 
dear  Savior;  take  them,  my  Lord  and  my  God.  Oh  take  them,  ye  ser 
vants  of  the  most  high  God,  ye  agents  for  God,  in  behalf  of  the  suffering, 
benighted  pagans;  send  them  wheresoever  your  wisdom  and  prudence 
shall  dictate." 

Happy  son!  Happy  father!  And  not  the  less  happy  for  what  the  Lord, 
in  his  sovereign  wisdom,  has  seen  fit  to  do  in  this  early  removal.  Nor  by 
such  a  death  will  the  cause  eventually  suffer. 

There  are  now  belonging  to  the  mission,   already  in  the  field  and  on 
their  way  to  it,  thirteen  men  and  nine  women. 
In  their  joint  letter,  June  12th,  the  brethren  say, 
"In  reviewing  the  scenes,  through  which  the  Lord  has  led  us,  we  see 
much  to  excite  our  humility,  our  gratitude,  and  our  unshaken  confidence 
in  him   whose  cause  we  are  laboring  to  build  up. 

"The  hand  of  the  Lord  was  laid  heavily  up  onus  last  winter.  Thirty- 
six  of  our  family  were  sick  at  one  time.  Two  or  three  cases  only  were 
considered  as  dangerous.  But.  in  the  midst  of  judgment  the  Lord  remem 
bered  mercy.  By  the  close  of  March,  general  health  was  restored,  which, 
considering  the  number  of  our  family,  has  been  enjoyed  to  an  unusual 
degree  ever  since.  There  have  been,  however,  among  the  laborers  and 
children  many  distressing  cases  of  sore  eyes." 

At  Elliot  they  have  cleared  fifty  or  sixty  acres  of  excellent  land  for  cul 
tivation,  a  good  proportion  of  it  bottom  land  of  inexhaustible  fertility. 
Several  acres  of  the  land  were  cleared  by  the  native  boys  of  the  school, 
under  the  direction  of  their  immediate  instructor,  Mr.  Williams.  In  their 
Journal,  the  last  of  December,  the  brethren  give  this  general  account  of 
the  produce  of  the  preceding  season: 

"Our  plantation  was  entirely  a  wilderness;  but  it  has  yielded  us  a  rich 
harvest.  Besides  several  hundred  bushels  of  corn  and  potatoes,  we  have 
gathered  about  30  bushels  of  peas  and  12  or  15  of  white  beans.  These 
last  contribute  not  less  to  health  than  comfort.  We  have  no  doubt  that 
the  feeble  health  of  our  family  the  last  winter  was  occasioned  by  a  defi 
ciency  of  vegetable  diet.  We  would  recommend  this  subject,  particularly 
to  the  consideration  of  missionaries  going  into  the  western  country,  and 


1820.  REPORT.  295 

refer  them  to  a  very  able  and  excellent  Report,  made  to  the  Secretary  of 
War,  by  the  Surgeon  General  of  the  Army  of  the  United  States,  respect 
ing  the  component  parts  of  the  soldier's  rations.  The  subject  applies,  in 
all  its  force,  to  missionaries  in  uncivilized  countries." 

The  buildings  for  the  establishment  are  eight  commodious  log  cabins 
occupied  as  dwelling  houses;  a  dining  room  and  kitchen  contiguous, 
fifty-two  feet  by  twenty,  and  with  a  piazza  on  each  side;  a  school  house 
thirty-six  feet  by  twenty  four,  of  hewn  logs  and  finished  on  the  Lancas- 
terian  plan;  a  mill-house  thirty-six  by  thirty;  a  commodious  blacksmith's 
shop  and  joiner's  shop;  a  lumber  house  and  granary;  a  stable,  and  three 
or  four  out-houses. 

There  are  belonging  to  the  mission  more  than  two  hundred  neat  cattle, 
including  calves; — teams  of  oxen  and  horses,  wagons,  carts,  ploughs,  and 
other  implements  of  husbandry,  suitable  for  a  large  plantation; — mechan 
ical  tools  for  various  arts;  and  all  the  varied  apparatus  for  the  accommoda 
tion  of  a  family  consisting  of  a  hundred  persons. 

In  the  school,  there  are  seventy  or  eighty  children  and  youths,  male 
and  female. 

"They  are  of  different  ages,"  says  Mr.  Kingsbury  in  his  report  to  the 
government,  "from  six  years  to  nineteen  and  twenty;  and  of  various 
complexions,  from  full  blooded  Choctaws  to  those  who  are  apparently 
descended  from  white  parents. 

"In  addition  to  the  common  rudiments  of  education,  the  boys  are 
acquiring  a  practical  knowledge  of  agriculture,  in  its  various  branches; 
and  the  girls,  while  out  of  school,  are  employed  under  the  direction  of 
the  female  missionaries,  in  different  parts  of  domestic  labor.  We  have 
also  a  full  blooded  Choctaw  lad,  learning  the  blacksmith's  trade,  and 
another,  now  in  the  school,  wishes  to  engage  in  the  same  employment,  so 
soon  as  there  is  opportunity.  All  the  children  are  placed  entirely  under 
our  control;  and  the  most  entire  satisfaction  is  expressed,  as  to  the  manner 
in  which  they  are  treated, 

"The  school  is  taught  on  the  Lancasterian  plan,  and  the  progress  of 
the  children  has  exceeded  our  most  sanguine  expectations.  There  have 
been  instances  of  lads  14  or  16  years  old,  entirely  ignorant  of  our  lan 
guage,  who  have  learned  the  alphabet  in  three  days;  and  on  the  fourth 
could  read  and  pronounce  syllables.  We  have  never  seen  an  equal  num 
ber  of  children,  in  any  school,  who  appeared  more  promising.  Since 
they  commenced,  their  attention  has  been  constant.  No  one  has  left  the 
school,  or  has  manifested  a  wish  to  leave  it. 

"The  moral  and  religious  instruction  which  we  have  communicated  to 
the  adults,  has  been  very  limited,  for  want  of  interpreters.  A  consider 
able  number  of  those,  who  could  understand,  and  some  others,  have 
attended  public  worship.  And  it  is  evident,  that  a  favorable  impression 
has  been  made  on  the  minds  of  some,  and  the  state  of  morals,  in  a  small 
degree,  improved.  Our  hope  is,  from  the  habits  which  may  be  formed 
by  the  young,  and  the  principles  which  we  may  instil  into  their  minds." 

In  this  connexion,  two  or  three  paragraphs,  from  the  journal  of  the 
mission,  will  open  some  interesting  views. 

"Nov.  18.  A  caravan  of  17  half  breeds,  besides  a  number  of  women 
and  children,  arrived  and  encamped  near  the  mission.  Their  intention 
is  to  form  a  settlement  near  the  Yazoo,  above  its  junction  with  the  Yalo- 


296  REPORT.  1820- 

Busha,  and  about  15  or  20  miles  north  of  this  place.  There  are  yet  no 
settlements  in  that  part  of  the  country.  They  have  with  them  about 
thirty  horses,  nearly  half  of  them  packed  with  provisions,  kettles,  farming 
tools,  &<c.  It  is  interesting  to  see  these  people  removing  into  the  wilder 
ness,  for  the  purpose  of  engaging  in  agricultural  pursuits.  They  stopped 
to  get  their  tools  repaired  at  our  smith's  shop.  The  Indians  say  that  they 
do  not  know  what  they  should  do,  if  brother  Fisk  should  go  away.  In  the 
evening  had  an  exhibition  of  the  school,  at  which  all  our  visitors  were 
present.  The  children  sung  several  hymns,  and  an  opportunity  was 
seized  to  make  such  remarks  to  the  children  and  those  present,  as  were 
fitted  to  be  useful.  The  spacious  school  room  hung  round  with  Lancas- 
terian  lessons,  was  well  lighted  up,  which,  with  the  order  and  decorum 
of  the  scholars,  and  the  melody  of  their  voices,  produced  the  most  pleas 
ing  emotions,  and  led  us  for  a  moment  to  forget  that  we  were  in  a 
heathen  land.  A  recollection  of  the  contrast  between  the  present  condi 
tion  of  these  children  and  what  it  was  six  months  ago,  called  forth  our 
liveliest  gratitude  to  Him,  who  caused  the  light  to  shine  out  of  darkness, 
and  who  is  now,  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Gospel,  causing 
the  wilderness  and  solitary  place  to  bud  and  blossom  as  the  rose.  One 
of  our  Indian  visitors  observed,  that  he  should  not  be  tired  of  sitting  there 
all  night. 

"Dec.  7.  Brother  K.  preached  three  times  during  his  absence,  on  a 
visit  to  the  Lower  Towns.  The  audiences  were  small,  but  generally 
attentive.  The  people,  every  where  appeared  anxious  to  have  their  chil 
dren  instructed.  Some,  who  were  well  informed,  said  there  were  a 
thousand  children  in  the  nation  ready  to  come  to  school,  if  they  could  be 
received;  and  that  many  of  their  parents  would  contribute  towards  their 
support.  During  this  journey  brother  K.  met  with  the  chief  of  the  Chick- 
asawhay  town,  one  of  the  most  distant  parts  of  the  nation.  He  was  on 
his  way  to  Elliot,  with  a  little  boy  of  mixed  blood,  belonging  to  his  town, 
whom  he  wished  to  place  in  the  school.  In  answer  to  some  remarks 
designed  to  shew  the  importance  of  the  Indians  becoming  civilized  and 
industrious,  he  replied,  that  his  part  of  the  nation  had  been  in  great  igno 
rance;  that  it  was  not  till  lately,  that  they  had  received  any  good  advice 
on  these  subjects;  but  that  now  he  should  use  his  exertions  to  have  them 
change  their  mode  of  living. 

"Dec.  18.  There  are  thirteen  girls  belonging  to  the  school.  These 
are  divided  into  two  companies,  each  of  which  alternately  assist,  while 
out  of  school,  in  the  dining  room  and  kitchen.  They  perform  their  duties 
with  despatch  and  neatness,  which  are  truly  pleasing.  The  two  com 
panies  are  emulous  to  excel.  Some  idea  of  the  labor  in  our  kitchen  may 
be  formed  from  the  following  schedule  of  articles  which  are  cooked  in  one 
week,  and  which  may  be  considered  a  fair  specimen  of  every  week's  work. 
Five  hundred  pounds  of  beef,  14'  bushels  of  potatoes,  40  large  loaves  of 
bread  or  puddings  to  make  up  the  deficiency,  200  gallons  of  tomfulah,  60 
gallons  of  weak  coffee,  3  pecks  of  beans  and  peas,  besides  other  small  arti 
cles.  One  company  of  the  girls,  when  out  of  school  and  not  engaged  in 
the  kitchen,  assists  in  washing  for  the  family;  in  sewing,  knitting,  spin 
ning,  &c.  Friends  of  Indian  civilization  have  great  reason  for  being 
encouraged  by  their  improvement. 

"March  26.     Brother  Kingsbury  preached  at  Capt.  Folsom's.     Had 


1820.  REPORT.  297 

much  conversation  with  him.  He  said  the  leading  men  among  the  Choc- 
taws,  by  their  acquaintance  with  religious  people,  had  discovered  that  they 
were  friendly  to  the  red  people,  and  wished  to  do  them  good.  He  said, 
that  the  good  book,  the  Bible,  had  taught  good  white  people  thus  to  love 
all  mankind.  Many  of  the  Choctaws  wished  to  know  what  was  in  this 
good  book,  which  produced  such  good  effects;  but  they  were  very  igno 
rant  on  the  subject,  and  it  would  require  great  pains  and  patience  to  in 
struct  them.  He  thought  the  way  was  prepared  for  them  to  open  their 
ears  to  those,  who  would  come  to  teach  them." 

From  the  first  the  Choctaws, — the  chiefs  especially,  have  manifested 
toward  the  mission  the  most  friendly  dispositions.  They  have  done  more 
than  merely  to  give  their  consent  to  the  establishment,  and  allow  their 
children  to  be  instructed;  of  the  sincerity  and  ardor  of  their  desire  for  the 
instruction  of  their  children  and  improvement  of  their  nation,  they  have 
given  substantial  and  unexampled  proofs. 

"It  has  been  our  endeavor,"  says  Mr.  Kingsbury,  "to  impress  on  the 
minds  of  this  nation  the  advantages  of  instruction,  and  the  propriety  of 
their  contributing  towards  the  education  of  their  own  children.  We  are 
decidedly  of  opinion,  that  in  every  point  of  view,  it  is  important  that  they 
should  learn  to  help  themselves.  By  commencing  on  a  liberal  and  exten 
sive  scale  for  their  improvement,  we  have  drawn  forth  a  spirit  of  liberality, 
as  unexpected  as  it  is  encouraging." 

In  the  Report  of  the  last  year,  it  was  stated,  that  soon  after  the  mis 
sionaries  arrived  in  the  nation,  the  king  Puck-sha-nub-bee  gave  for  the 
school  $200  to  be  paid  annually  from  the  annuity  by  his  partof  the  nation, 
from  the  U.  S.;  and  that  at  a  council  of  the  nation  in  the  fore  part  of 
August,  after  an  address  made  to  them  by  Mr.  Kingsbury,  a  subscription 
was  opened  upon  the  spot;  and  85  cows  and  calves  and  $500  dollars  to 
be  paid  annually,  and  $700  as  a  donation  to  the  establishment,  were 
subscribed.  Your  Committee  have  now  the  gratification  to  report  other 
and  greater  donations. 

"At  a  treaty  holden  in  1816,  the  Choctaws  sold  a  tract  of  country  for 
which  they  are  to  receive  of  the  U.  S.  $6,000  annually,  in  cash,  for  17 
years.  The  nation  is  divided  into  three  districts,  called  the  Upper,  the 
Lower,  and  the  six  Towns.  At  a  council,  holden  on  the  4th  Sept.  by 
what  are  called  the  Lower  Towns;  including  the  northeast  part  of  the 
nation,  between  the  public  road  and  the  Tombigby  river,  it  was  voted 
unanimously,  that  the  sum  of  $2,000,  their  proportion  of  the  $6,000  above 
mentioned,  be  appropriated  to  the  support  of  a  school  in  their  own  district, 
under  the  patronage  of  the  American  Board.  They  also  sent  a  letter  to 
the  chief  of  the  Upper  towns,  in  which  Elliot  is  situated,  requesting 
them  to  appropriate  their  proportion,  an  equal  sum,  to  the  support  of  this 
school." 

From  another  district  the  following  communications  have  been  re 
ceived. 

"Resolved  in  council,  this  21st  March  1820,  held  for  Mingo  Pusha- 
matahaw's  district  in  the  Choctaw  nation,  That  the  balance  of  the  annuity 
due  to  the  said  district  from  the  United  States,  for  the  purchase  of  land 
in  the  year  of  our  Lord  1816,  made  by  Gen.  Coffee,  Col.  McKee,  and 
John  Rhea,  Esq.,  of  two  thousand  dollars  per  annum,  shall  be  appropria 
ted  in  the  following  manner;  viz.  One  thousand  dollars  for  the  erection 
38 


298  REPORT.  1820. 

and  continuance  of  a  blacksmith's  shop,  with  iron  and  the  necessary  uten 
sils  for  conducting  the  same  for  the  best  accommodation  of  the  Indians; 
and  one  thousand  dollars  to  be  applied  to  the  use  of  a  school  to  be  estab 
lished  as  soon  as  practicable.  The  said  amount  to  be  paid  by  the  United 
States  Agent  in  the  nation,  to  the  above  establishment  quarter  yearly. 
Signed,  PUSHAMATAHAW,  in  behalf  of  the  council" 

Choctaw  trading  house,  March  21st,  1820. 

"REV.  CYRUS  KINGSBURY, — Dear  sir, — It  was  with  much  pleasure  1 
can  inform  you,  that  we  have  this  day  resolved  in  council  to  appropriate 
one  half  of  our  annuity  due  to  us  from  the  United  States,  for  this  district, 
of  one  thousand  dollars  for  the  use  and  benefit  of  a  school  to  be  established 
in  our  district,  as  soon  as  practicable,  and  we  particularly  wish  you  to 
take  charge  of  it  for  us,  as  we  are  much  pleased  with  your  exertions  already 
made  for  the  benefit  of  a  part  of  our  nation. 

"Please  to  present  our  thanks  to  our  Father  the  President  of  the  United 
States,  and  also  to  your  friends,  for  their  thoughtfulness  of  us,  and  tell 
them  we  hope,  the  day  is  not  far  distant,  when  we  shall  take  our  place 
among  the  enlightened  States  of  this  happy  land.  Very  respectfully  your 
obedient  servant. 

PUSHAMATAHAW,  Chief  of  one  District  of  the  Choctaw  Nation" 

In  a  letter  to  Mr.  Kingsbury  accompanying  these  documents,  Eden 
Brashears,  Esq.  acting  agent  in  the  absence  of  Col.  McKee,  says: 

"You  will  see  by  the  enclosed  copy  how  Pushamatahavv's  district  have 
disposed  of  their  annuity — and  when  making  that  disposition  they  request 
ed  me  to  furnish  you  a  copy  of  the  same,  and  further,  to  request  you  to 
take  the  care  and  arrangement  of  the  blacksmith's  shop,  by  sending  on  to 
the  north,  and  engaging  a  suitable  blacksmith  to  conduct  said  shop;  one 
that  may  have  a  small  family  would  be  preferred,  and  a  good  mechanic, 
as  it  is  their  intention  to  put  some  of  their  own  people  to  learn  the  trade. 
The  site  for  the  school  establishment  is  also  left  to  your  own  selection, 
after  taking  a  view  of  the  district,  which  they  wish  you  to  do,  so  soon  as 
it  may  suit  your  convenience;  and  further  hope  that  your  friends  (as  they 
term  them)  and  our  government,  will  hold  out  a  helping  hand  to  them, 
so  as  to  enable  them  soon  to  have  a  school  in  that  district,  as  they 
consider  themselves  much  behind  the  other  districts  in  civilization,  and 
think,  on  many  occasions,  that  they  have  been  neglected  by  their  white 
friends." 

Mr.  Kingsbury,  in  a  letter  5th  of  May,  says,  "It  is  probable  that  an 
alteration  will  be  made,  so  that  the  $2,000  dollars  annuity  will  go  to  the 
establishment,  leaving  the  particular  application  of  it  to  our  own  discre 
tion,  with  the  understanding  that  there  shall  be  a  blacksmith's  shop  con 
nected  with  it  on  the  plan  of  the  one  at  Elliot." 

In  the  beginning  of  June,  this  national  bounty  was  completed,  by  a 
like  formal  donation,  on  the  part  of  the  district  in  which  Elliot  is  situa 
ted,  of  that  part  of  the  annuity,  $2,000  for  that  establishment.  And  on 
the  occasion  the  following  Letter  was  addressed  to  the  Corresponding 
Secretary. 

Elliot,  June  1820. 

"BROTHER, — This  is  the  first  time  we  have  visited  this  school  in  our 
nation  since  it  was  established  here.  We  think  the  school  is  in  a  very 
flourishing  condition  and  all  things  going  on  well. 


1820.  REPORT.  299 

"Brother,  our  hearts  are  made  glad  to  see  our  children  improving  so 
fast.  We  are  pleased  to  see  our  boys  go  into  the  woods  with  their  axes 
and  into  the  field  with  their  hoes,  under  the  care  of  their  teacher,  to  learn 
to  work,  that  they  may  know  how  to  clear  and  cultivate  our  land;  for  we 
cannot  expect  to  live  any  longer  by  hunting. — Our  game  is  gone; — and 
the  missionaries  tell  us,  the  Good  Spirit  points  out  to  us  now  this  new  and 
better  way  to  get  our  meat,  and  provide  bread  and  clothes  for  ourselves, 
women,  and  children.  And  we  are  very  glad  to  see  our  daughters  learn 
ing  to  cook,  and  to  make  and  mend  clothes,  and  do  all  such  things  as  the 
white  women  do. 

"Brother,  we  have  never  until  now,  had  the  pleasure  of  becoming  ac 
quainted  with  the  good  people  here,  except  Mr.  Kingsbury,  whom  we  had 
seen  before.  Now  we  see  and  believe,  that  all  the  missionary  brothers 
and  sisters  at  Elliot,  are  our  friends,  and  wish  to  teach  us  and  our  chil 
dren  good  things,  which  we  have  not  known  before. 

"Brother,  we  wish  to  express  to  all  our  good  white  brothers  at  the  north, 
who  have  sent  good  missionaries  and  teachers  here,  our  sincere  and  hearty 
thanks  for  their  great  kindness  in  so  doing.  We  are  well  pleased  in  every 
respect  with  the  school,  and  with  our  good  white  brothers  and  sisters  of 
the  mission  family;  and  we  are  satisfied  and  well  pleased  with  the  manner, 
in  which  our  children  are  treated  by  them. 

"Brother,  we  had  never  been  sensible  of  the  great  expense,  at  which 
our  white  brethren  have  been,  in  establishing  this  school,  until  yesterday, 
when  we  had  a  talk,  and  our  white  brethren  gave  us  the  information. 
And  we  feel  now  more  deeply  our  obligations  to  all  our  kind  benefactors, 
for  the  love  which  they  hav^e  shown  the  red  people  in  this  distant  land. 
It  is  likewise  cause  of  great  joy  to  us,  that  our  good  father  the  President 
of  the  United  States,  has  stretched  out  his  helping  hand  to  his  red  chil 
dren  for  their  good.  We  feel  very  thankful  for  his  favor  in  appropriating 
so  much  money  for  our  school,  encouraging  and  helping  on  the  missiona 
ries  in  their  work. 

"Brother,  we  wish  to  repeat  to  all  our  white  friends  every  where,  that 
we  are  very  thankful  for  all  your  favors,  and  all  the  good  you  have  done  to 
us  your  poor  ignorant  red  brethren, — and  we  hope  you  will  still  remember 
us. — We  are  yet  in  a  very  destitute  situation.  We  have  one  good  school, 
in  which  70  of  our  children,  are,  by  your  great  kindness,  placed  and  now 
receiving  instruction.  But  brother,  we  would  with  boldness  tell  you  our 
wants.  We  have  more  than  1,000  children  in  our  nation,  who  are  now 
waiting  and  looking  up  to  our  white  brothers  for  the  means  of  instruction. 
Our  nation  is  open  for  more  missionaries,  and  our  hearts  are  ready  to 
receive  them. 

"We  know  that  it  must  be  at  a  great  expense  that  you  send  out  and 
support  missions  among  us;  and  we  feel  it  our  duty  to  assist  and  to  do  all 
we  can  for  ourselves.  We  have  lately  appropriated  2,000  dollars  of  our 
annuity  from  each  of  the  three  districts  in  our  nation,  for  the  benefit  of 
the  mission  school,  making  in  the  whole  $6,000  a  year  for  16  years  to 
come.  We  are  your  friends  and  brothers, 

PUCK-SHA-NUB-BEE,  his  X  mark, 

MUSH-UL-LA-TUB-BEE,    klS    X 


300  REPORT.  1820, 

These  donations  and  communications  speak  for  themselves;  and  they 
speak  with  an  emphasis  that  should  arrest  every  mind — with  a  pathos  that 
should  touch  every  heart  in  this  Christian  land.  They  betoken  an  influ 
ence  from  the  All-powerful  Spirit  that  originally  caused  the  light  to  shine 
out  of  darkness.  The  movement  presses  upon  the  mission  with  the  force 
of  a  mighty  rushing  wind.  The  missionaries  have  found  it  impossible, 
and  your  Committee  have  found  it  impossible,  to  proceed  as  fast  as  it 
would  impel  them.  They  have  felt  it  however  to  be  their  duty — as  they 
have  found  it  to  be  a  matter  of  necessity — to  do  what  they  could,  towards 
answering  the  desires  of  the  Choctaws,  and  preventing  a  disastrous  disap 
pointment  or  impatience. 

The  call  for  an  establishment  in  the  Lower  Towns,  the  district  which 
set  the  noble  example  of  giving  their  annuity  for  the  purpose,  could  not 
be  resisted.  Early  in  the  winter  it  was  resolved,  that  a  beginning  should 
be  made  as  soon  as  possible.  "It  was  agreed  by  the  brethren,"  says  Mr, 
Kingsbury,  "that  I  should  select  the  site,  have  a  house  erected  and  prepa 
rations  made,  for  raising  a  crop.  After  making  all  possible  arrangements 
for  the  mission  at  Elliot,  I  left  there  on  the  10th  of  February  for  the 
purpose  of  commencing  the  contemplated  establishment. 

"Feb.  19.  Reached  Major  Pitchlyim's,  one  of  the  public  interpreters. 
He  is  a  white  man,  has  a  Choctaw  family,  and  large  possessions. 

"Feb.  20.  Preached  at  Major  Pitchlynn's.  Several  were  present, 
among  whom,  were  two  or  three  captains.  Conversed  with  them  through 
the  public  interpreter.  They  expressed  great  thankfulness  that  good 
white  people  had  come  to  teach  them.  They  had  seen  many  white 
people,  but  did  not  know  till  lately,  that  there  were  any  such  men  as 
preachers. 

"Feb.  21.  Went  in  company  with  Captain  Folsom  and  Major  Pitchrynr* 
to  select  a  site  for  the  new  establishment.  Found  many  good  places,  but 
at  all  of  them  some  things  were  wanting.  It  was  difficult  to  determine 
which  combined  the  most  advantages.  Felt  a  responsibility  on  my  mind 
which  I  cannot  express.  My  heart  was  lifted  up  in  fervent  supplication, 
that  the  Lord  would  direct  to  that  place,  where  he  would  delight  to  record1 
his  name,  and  to  erect  monuments  to  his  glory. 

"Feb.  22.  Expected  to  have  returned  to  Major  Pitchlynn's  last  night, 
but  the  distance  was  too  great.  Endeavored  to  reach  the  house  of  a 
native,  but  was  unable  to  cross  a  large  creek,  which  in  consequence  of 
the  late  rains,  overflowed  its  banks.  Stopped  in  the  woods  without  food  or 
fire,  and  having  collected  some  dry  grass  for  a  bed,  and  commended  our 
selves  to  the  protection  and  guidance  of  our  heavenly  Father,  enjoyed  a 
good  night's  rest. 

"Feb.  23.  After  mature  and  prayerful  deliberation,  resolved  to  estab 
lish  the  school  on  the  borders  of  an  extensive  prairie  on  the  south  side  of 
Ook-tib-be-ha  creek,  about  12  miles  above  its  junction  with  the  Tombigby. 
This  creek  is  the  boundary  line  between  the  Choctaw  and  Chickasaw 
nations.  As  no  one  of  the  sisters  could  at  present  be  spared  from  Elliot, 
I  hired  a  young  man  and  his  wife  from  the  settlements  in  Alabama  for  tea 
months. 

"Came  with  three  laborers  upon  the  ground,  which  is  henceforth  to  be 
consecrated  to  the  service  of  God.  The  particular  site  selected  for  the 
building*  was  the  very  spot  on  which  we  had  slept  the  night  before  in  owr 


1820.  REPORT.  301 

grass  bed.  It  is  a  pleasing  eminence  overlooking  towards  the  south  a 
prairie  of  several  miles  in  circumference.  The  part  of  this  immediately 
contiguous  is  of  exhaustless  fertility, — requiring  only  a  very  little  labor  to 
prepare  it  for  the  plough.  On  the  right  is  a  small  creek,  which  will  fur 
nish  water  for  stock  and  on  the  left  is  the  Ook-tib-be-ha  navigable  in  high 
water  for  keel  boats,  which  at  particular  times  may  come  within  a 
quarter  of  a  mile  of  the  establishment.  May  the  Lord  God  of  Israel 
bless  us,  cause  his  face  to  shine  upon  us  and  prosper  the  labor  of  our 
hands." 

After  sustaining  almost  incredible  labors  and  hardships,  with  surprising 
fortitude  and  alacrity,  Mr.  Kingsbury  makes  in  his  journal,  March  23d, 
this  affecting  record. 

"Removed  into  our  new  house.  It  was  a  day  of  rejoicing.  We  had 
lived  in  a  smoky  wet  camp  four  weeks.  May  the  Lord  vouchsafe  his 
presence,  and  make  this  house  a  Bethel,  and  fill  our  hearts  with  gratitude 
and  praise. 

"March  25.  Having  made  arrangements  for  a  garden  and  cornfield, 
set  out  on  my  return  to  Elliot."  He  arrived  at  Elliot  in  health  on  the 
29th,  and  the  grateful  note  was  made  in  the  mission  journal,  "The  Lord 
has  been  gracious  to  him  and  those  with  him,  in  preserving  their  health 
amidst  their  exposure  to  cold,  wet,  and  fatigue." 

In  their  letter  12th  June,  speaking  of  these  beginnings  at  Ook-tib-be-ha, 
the  brethren  say: 

"A  convenient  house  has  been  completed,  a  garden  and  yards  for  cattle 
prepared;  and  it  is  expected  that  20  or  25  acres  of  corn  and  potatoes  will 
be  cultivated.  It  is  highly  important  that  a  number  of  additional  build 
ings  should  be  erected  in  the  course  of  the  next  fall  and  winter,  and  large 
preparations  made  for  raising  provisions.  This  will  enable  us  to  open  a 
school  in  the  autumn  of  1821,  without  great  embarrassment,  and  we  think 
with  less  expense  than  has  been  incurred  at  the  other  establishments.  If 
these  preparations  should  be  made  with  suitable  activity,  we  think  the 
natives  will  wait  with  patience." 

The  brethren  say  further — "The  Prudential  Committee  have  also  been 
informed  that  the  Six  Towns  have  made  an  earnest  request,  that  the 
American  Board  would  establish  a  school  and  a  blacksmith's  shop  in  their 
district. 

"The  work  to  be  accomplished  is  a  great  one:  The  natives  view  it  as 
a  great  one,  and  one  which  cannot  be  done  without  ample  means.  They 
do  not  consider  their  appropriations  as  adequate  to  the  object,  or  as  capa 
ble  of  being  employed  to  advantage  without  further  aid.  They  have 
made  the  appropriations  in  full  confidence,  that  the  good  people  of  the 
United  States  will  grant  them  such  further  aid,  as  will  complete  the  estab 
lishment  at  Elliot,  and  place  the  other  two  on  a  similar  foundation. 
Should  the  plan  of  operations  here  commenced  be  followed  up  for  a  short 
time,  further  aid  may  be  expected  from  the  natives.  Judging  from  their 
friendly  disposition,  from  the  great  interest  they  take  in  education,  and 
from  what  they  have  already  done,  we  think  it  a  reasonable  conclusion, 
that,  at  no  very  distant  period  the  Choctaws  will  provide  in  a  great  meas 
ure  for  the  support  of  their  own  schools.  But  should  the  impulse  they  have 
received  be  suffered  to  subside,  should  the  appropriations  they  have  made 
remain  unproductive,  for  want  of  such  additional  aid  as  would  put  them 


302  REPORT.  1820. 

in  operation,  their  hopes  would  be  disappointed;  their  school  would  lan 
guish,  and  the  labor  of  years  and  the  expense  of  thousands  would  be  neces 
sary  to  raise  them  to  the  same  pitch  of  benevolent  exertion." 

ARKANSAW  MISSION. — Of  the  particular  reasons  which  induced  to  this 
mission,  a  brief  statement  was  submitted  in  the  Report  of  the  last  year. 
And  it  was  then  also  stated  that  the  Rev.  Alfred  Finney  and  the  Rev. 
Cephas  Washburn,  were  designated  for  the  mission,  and  were  under 
directions  to  proceed — the  former  from  Vermont,  and  the  latter  from 
Georgia — to  Brainerd,  and  thence  together  to  Elliot.  There  they  were 
to  leave  their  wives,  until  they  had  visited  the  place  for  their  establishment 
in  the  Arkansaw  country,  and  made  some  inceptive  arrangements  and 
prepared  some  accommodation  for  their  families. 

Conformably  to  the  directions  they  proceeded  with  their  wives  to  Brai 
nerd  in  October  and  November. 

"Our  feelings  on  entering  the  [Cherokee]  nation,"  says  Mr.  Washburn, 
"and  beholding  the  natives  of  the  same  country  to  which  we  were  going 
as  heralds  of  mercy,  are  better  conceived  than  described.  Suffice  it  to 
say,  we  have  never  seen  any  strangers  towards  whom  we  felt  our  hearts 
so  powerfully  drawn  in  affection.  When  we  beheld  them  in  their  igno 
rance,  and  thought  of  the  worth  of  their  souls,  we  felt  that  no  service  was 
too  great  to  be  performed,  no  sacrifice  too  dear  to  be  made,  no  trials  too 
severe  to  be  endured  for  their  salvation.  Our  meeting  with  the  dear 
brethren  and  sisters  of  the  Brainerd  mission,  was  grateful  to  our  hearts. 
They  gave  us  a  most  cordial  welcome,  and  their  Christian  society  was 
truly  refreshing.  Never  have  we  found  a  family  to  which,  in  so  short  a 
time,  we  have  formed  so  strong  an  attachment.  When  introduced  to  the 
dear  Cherokee  brethren  and  sisters,  we  could  only  say,  "this  is  the  Lord's 
doing."  Surely,  if  the  Christian  community  could  see  and  converse  with 
these  children  of  the  forest,  now  lambs  of  the  Redeemer's  fold,  they  would 
consider  this  fruit  of  missionary  labors  more  than  a  double  equivalent  for 
the  expense  of  establishing  and  supporting  missions  among  the  heathen. 
By  faith,  1  trust,  we  were  enabled  to  look  on  the  school  as  a  fountain, 
from  whence  streams  of  salvation  should  finally  flow  to  every  part  of  the 
nation." 

They  left  Brainerd  on  the  30th  of  November,  and  after  almost  incredi 
ble  difficulties  and  dangers,  from  filled  swamps  and  creeks,  from  wet  and 
cold,  and  hunger  and  unsheltered  lodging,  they  arrived  at  Elliot  on  the  3d 
of  January.  In  a  letter  of  the  12th  of  the  same  month  they  say: 

"Notwithstanding  our  journey  has  been  long  and  toilsome,  and  our 
exposures  and  privations  many,  through  the  wilderness,  our  Father  in 
Heaven  has  indeed  manifested  himself  a  faithful  and  covenant  keeping 
God  through  all  our  wearisome  pilgrimage.  We  have  lain  on  the  ground 
repeatedly,  wet  and  cold  with  rain  and  snow;  we  have  waded  creeks  and 
swamps,  and  mire;  we  have  travelled  the  wilderness,  some  part  of  it  a 
trackless  way  among  people  of  barbarous  tongues:  yet  in  all  our  trials  He 
has  supported  us;  in  all  our  difficulties  and  wants  He  has  aided  and 
relieved  us;  in  all  our  dangers  and  exposures  He  has  preserved  us, 
our  wives  and  our  little  ones.  May  we  feel  our  obligations  to  our 
merciful  preserver  and  benefactor,  and  may  we  receive  his  continual  good 
ness  as  an  excitement  to  future  trust  in  Him,  and  to  active  obedience  in 
his  service." 


1820.  REPORT.  303 

As  the  season  was  not  favorable  for  travelling  in  the  country,  they  tar 
ried  at  Elliot,  helping  the  missionaries  there  until  the  fore  part  of  Febru 
ary,  when  they  made  an  attempt  to  proceed  to  the  Arkansaw,  of  which  an 
account  is  given  in  a  joint  letter,  March  8th. 

"From  what  was  stated  in  a  letter  of  February  1st,  you  doubtless  expect 
ed  our  next  communication  from  the  Arkansaw;  at  least  this  was  our 
expectation  when  we  last  wrote  you.  But  Providence,  which  ever  orders 
wisely,  has  caused  in  this  respect  a  severe  disappointment,  which  has 
greatly  tried  the  feelings  of  our  hearts.  Some  account  of  our  fruitless 
attempt  to  get  to  the  Arkansaw  will  explain  our  meaning." 

Their  attempt  in  a  word  was  frustrated,  by  the  rise  and  overflowing  of 
the  Mississippi  which  rendered  it  impracticable  to  get  to  the  Arkansaw 
by  land,  and  extremely  difficult  and  dangerous,  if  at  all  practicable  by 
water.  They  explain  the  circumstances  very  fully  and  satisfactorily;  and 
proceed  to  say: 

"All  the  circumstances  as  presented  to  our  minds  induced  the  belief, 
that  our  object  would  in  no  degree  be  forwarded  by  a  visit  to  Arkansaw, 
were  it  possible  to  accomplish  it  at  that  time.  We  were  hence  led  to  the 
conclusion,  though  reluctantly  and  tardily,  that  duty,  if  not  necessity,  re 
quired  our  return  to  Elliot.  In  pursuance  of  this  conclusion  we  retraced 
the  steps  we  had  taken  and  arrived  here  29th  ult. 

"What  good  will  result  from  this  part  of  our  seemingly  fruitless  wander 
ing,  is  at  present  unknown.  Our  visit  to  the  Walnut  Hills,  was  however 
very  seasonable  to  the  temporal  concerns  of  this  mission;  as  we  found  on 
our  arrival  there  a  considerable  part  of  the  supplies,  forwarded  from  Bos 
ton  and  elsewhere,  in  a  condition  soon  to  be  destroyed.  We  put  them 
all  into  a  safe  condition  till  they  can  be  brought  up  the  Yazoo,  which  will , 
be  probably  soon.  While  at  the  Hills  we  had  opportunity  to  preach 
several  times,  from  which  may  result  spiritual  good  to  some  there, 
who,  though  willing  to  hear,  are  destitute  of  a  saving  knowledge  of  the 
gospel. 

"Our  return  also  was  seasonable  to  the  spiritual  interest  of  this  mission; 
as  brother  Kingsbury  is  absent  and  expected  to  be  for  some  time,  on  the 
Tombigby,  making  arrangements  for  a  new  establishment  for  the  benefit 
of  the  nation.  In  the  mean  time,  nothing  is  done  for  the  furtherance  of 
the  particular  object  of  our  mission  Had  it  not  been  for  some  unforeseen 
and  unexpected  delays  at  and  soon  after  the  commencement  of  our  enter-* 
prise,  we  might  have  reached,  in  human  view,  the  Arkansaw  in  the  month 
of  December,  according  to  the  expectation  of  the  Prudential  Committee, 
But  the  delays  and  hindrances  were  entirely  providential,  beyond  the 
control  of  those  concerned  in  them. 

"While  our  own  particular  enterprise  is  calling  us  here,  anxiety  and 
suspense  are  constant  attendants.  What  the  Lord  intends  by  retarding 
our  progress  and  disappointing  the  expectations  of  the  Prudential  Con> 
mittee  in  us,  is  yet  to  be  unfolded.  We  fear  that  our  faith  and  courage 
will  fail,  and  that  the  confidence  placed  in  us,  and  the  patience  of  the 
Prudential  Committee  and  of  the  Christian  public  will  be  exhausted, 
before  we  shall  be  established  in  the  field  of  our  future  labors.  We  hope 
we  have  an  interest  in  your  prayers,  if  not  for  ourselves,  yet  for  the  influ 
ence  our  conduct  may  have  upon  the  precious  cause  of  Christ." 

By  these  disappointments,  and  delays  the  intended  commencement  of 


304  REPORT.  1820. 

the  establishment  in  the  spring  was  prevented;  but  the  countervailing 
advantages  are  not  of  small  consideration.  Besides  the  very  timely  help 
afforded  to  the  mission  at  Brainerd  and  Elliot,  Messrs.  Washburn  and 
Finney,  by  their  residence  at  those  stations,  had  opportunity  for  acquir 
ing  knowledge  and  experience  of  prime  and  substantial  importance.  After 
their  return  from  the  Walnut  Hills,  they  remained  at  Elliot,  taking  part 
in  the  work  there,  until  it  was  supposed  the  state  of  the  rivers  would  admit 
of  their  proceeding  to  their  destined  station.  Since  their  departure  from 
Elliot,  no  intelligence  has  been  received  from  them. 

Mr.  Jacob  Hitchcock  of  Brimfield,  Mass.,  and  Mr.  James  Orrof  Grot- 
on,  Tompkins  Co.  N.  Y.,  young  unmarried  men,  who  had  offered  them 
selves  for  the  service,  with  expressions  of  readiness  and  desire  to  devote 
themselves  unreservedly  for  life,  with  all  that  they  possessed,  and  whose 
testimonials,  as  to  their  qualifications  for  assisting  in  the  schools  and  in 
the  agricultural  and  mechanical  branches  of  the  general  work,  were  highly 
satisfactory, — were  designated  for  the  Arkansaw  establishment.  Con 
formably  to  their  instructions,  they  proceeded  to  Pittsburg,  at  which  place 
they  arrived  the  last  of  April; — arid  there  in  company  with  their  brethren 
destined  for  the  Choctaw  mission,  took  passage  upon  the  river; — hoping 
to  meet  Messrs.  Finney  and  Washburn  at  the  post  of  Arkansaw,  and  with 
them  thence  to  proceed  to  the  proposed  seat  of  the  mission. 

Your  Committee  can  only  express  the  hope,  that,  under  the  protection 
and  guidance  of  Providence,  the  several  members  of  this  mission  have 
safely  reached  the  field  of  their  future  labors,  and  that  they  all  experience 
in  equal  measure  the  gracious  blessing  which  has  so  signally  attended 
their  brethren  at  Brainerd  and  at  Elliot.  Other  devoted  individuals 
are  holding  themselves  in  readiness  to  go  forth  to  their  assistance  as  soon 
as  it  shall  be  deemed  advisable  to  be  sent. 

MISSION  TO  THE  SANDWICH  ISLANDS. — For  several  years  past,  the  eyes 
of  the  Christian  community  have  been  fixed  upon  Owhyhee,  and  the 
neighboring  islands,  as  an  inviting  field  for  missionary  labor.  Attention 
was  first  drawn  to  this  most  delightful  cluster  in  the  northern  Pacific,  by 
the  fact,  that  some  of  the  natives,  providentially  cast  upon  our  shores, 
were  receiving  the  advantages  of  a  liberal  and  Christian  education,  and 
had  apparently  become  the  subjects  of  that  spiritual  change,  which  alone 
could  fit  them  to  be  useful  to  their  countrymen  in  the  highest  sense.  The 
hope,  that  they  might  return  to  their  native  islands,  accompanied  by  faith 
ful  missionaries,  and  bearing  the  offers  of  mercy  to  ignorant  and  perishing 
multitudes,  was  greatly  strengthened  by  the  wonderful  displays  of  divine 
grace  in  the  islands  of  the  Southern  Pacific.  The  lamented  Obookiah 
was  anxiously  looking  for  the  day,  when  he  should  embark  on  this  voyage 
of  benevolence  and  of  Christian  enterprise.  Though  it  seemed  good  to 
the  Lord  of  missions,  that  this  young  servant  should  not  be  employed,  as 
had  been  desired  by  himself  and  others,  but  should  be  called  to  the  enjoy 
ments  of  a  better  world,  divine  wisdom  had  prepared,  as  we  trust,  other 
agents  to  aid  in  accomplishing  the  same  blessed  design. 

The  period  arrived,  soon  after  the  last  annual  meeting,  for  sending 
forth  a  mission,  which  had  been  thus  contemplated;  and  which  had  excit 
ed  the  liveliest  interest,  and  the  most  pleasing  anticipations.  The  pas 
sage  having  been  engaged,  and  other  preparatory  arrangements  made, 


1820.  REPORT.  305 

the  mission  family  assembled  in  Boston,  on  the  12th  of  October.  It  con 
sisted  of  twenty-two  persons,  and  presented  a  most  interesting  collection, 
rarely  if  ever  surpassed  on  a  similar  occasion.  The  Rev.  Messrs.  Bing- 
ham  and  Thurston  had  been  ordained  as  ministers  of  the  Gospel.  Mr. 
Daniel  Chamberlain,  of  Brookfield,  Mass.,  a  farmer  in  the  prime  of  life, 
who,  by  his  own  industry  and  good  management,  was  placed  in  very  eligi 
ble  worldly  circumstances;  Dr.  Thomas  Holman,  who  had  just  finished 
his  education  for  the  practice  of  medicine;  Mr.  Samuel  Whitney,  a 
student  in  Yale  College,  capable  of  being  employed  as  a  catechist,  school 
master,  or  mechanic;  Mr.  Samuel  Ruggles,  a  catechist  and  schoolmaster; 
and  Mr.  Elisha  Loomis,  a  printer,  having  previously  offered  themselves 
for  this  service  and  been  accepted,  went  forth  desirous  of  carrying  the 
arts  of  civilized  communities,  as  well  as  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel. 
Mr.  Chamberlain  had  been  the  head  of  a  family  for  13  or  14  years,  and 
took  with  him  a  discreet  arid  pious  wife  and  five  promising  children. 
The  other  persons  who  have  been  named,  had  formed  recent  matrimonial 
connexions,  and  obtained,  as  helpers  in  the  work,  well  educated  females, 
of  the  fairest  character  for  piety  and  virtue.  To  this  goodly  company  were 
added  Thomas  Hopoo,  William  Tennooe,  and  John  Honooree,  natives 
of  the  Sandwich  Islands,  who  had  been  educated  at  the  Foreign  Mission 
School,  instructed  in  the  doctrines  and  duties  of  Christianity,  and  made 
partakers,  as  was  charitably  hoped,  of  spiritual  and  everlasting  blessings. 
They  burned  with  the  desire  of  imparting  divine  truth  to  their  brethren 
according  to  the  flesh.  All  the  adults  here  mentioned  were  formed  into  a 
church  of  Christ,  with  very  impressive  solemnities,  and  were  committed  to 
the  pastoral  care  of  the  two  ordained  missionaries.  This  infant  church, 
soon  after  its  organization,  celebrated  the  Redeemer's  sacrifice,  and 
invited  to  its  communion  all  who  love  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  sincerity. 
The  season  was  refreshing  and  delightful.  Numerous  friends  of  Christ 
and  of  missions  pledged  themselves  to  each  other,  and  to  the  departing 
family,  never  to  forget  them  when  removed  to  another  hemisphere;  to 
pray  for  them  with  affectionate  importunity,  and  to  contribute  for  the  sup 
ply  of  their  temporal  wants,  and  for  the- general  success  and  prosperity  of 
the  mission.  The  instructions  of  the  Prudential  Committee  were  delivered 
in  the  presence  of  a  great  assembly,  and  amid  many  tokens,  that  the  cause 
of  Christ  among  the  heathen  was  taking  a  new  and  stronger  hold  upon 
the  affections  of  his  followers. 

On  Saturday,  Oct.  23d,  the  mission  family  embarked  on  board  the  brig 
Thaddeus,  Captain  Andrew  Blanchard.  Previously  to  their  taking  a  final 
adieu  of  their  friends  and  their  country,  they  stopped  on  a  spacious  wharf, 
and  there,  surrounded  by  a  multitude  of  Christian  brethren,  were  com 
mended  to  the  favor  of  God  by  prayer,  and  united  in  a  parting  hymn. 
The  vessel  soon  weighed  anchor,  and  sailed  a  few  miles  into  the  lower 
harbor,  whence,  on  the  following  day,  she  put  to  sea.  After  she  had  been 
50  days  on  the  voyage,  and  had  passed  the  equator,  the  missionaries  had 
an  opportunity  to  write  hasty  letters  to  the  Committee,  and  to  enclose 
copious  journals  to  their  friends.  They  had  all  been  well,  with  the  excep 
tion  of  a  somewhat  uncommon  share  in  sea-sickness,  and  were  united  and 
happy  among  themselves,  cheered  with  anticipations  of  usefulness  among 
the  heathen,  and  employed,  as  they  had  opportunity,  in  communicating 
religious  knowledge  to  the  ship's  company,  and  improving  the  Christian 
39 


306  REPORT.  1820. 

character  of  each  other,  with  a  particular  view  to  the  duties,  which  would 
devolve  upon  them  in  their  arduous  undertaking. 

What  trials  await  these  beloved  brethren  and  sisters  it  is  impossible  for 
man  to  foresee;  nor  ought  we  to  be  anxious.  Trials  of  some  kind  undoubt 
edly  they,  as  well  as  all  other  missionaries,  must  expect.  That  they  may 
not  be  elated  by  prosperity,  nor  disheartened  by  adversity,  but  may  lead 
humble,  prayerful,  laborious  lives,  feeling  their  dependence  upon  God, 
and  gratefully  acknowledging  every  token  of  his  favor,  will  be  the  un 
feigned  petition  at  the  throne  of  grace,  frequently  offered  by  their  numer 
ous  personal  friends  scattered  widely  through  our  country,  and  by  all 
the  friends  of  missions,  to  whom  their  design  and  destination  shall  be 
known. 

It  is  proper  to  mention  here,  with  expressions  of  gratitude  to  the  Su 
preme  Disposer,  the  astonishing  change,  which  took  place  at  the  Sand 
wich  Islands,  just  at  the  time  the  missionaries  were  embarking  at  Boston. 
To  the  surprise  of  all,  who  had  been  acquainted  with  those  islands,  the 
government  and  the  people  unanimously,  or  nearly  so,  determined  to  aban 
don  their  idols,  and  to  commit  them  with  all  the  monuments  of  idolatry  to 
the  flames.  This  was  done  at  Owhyhee,  then  at  Woahoo,  and  then  at 
Atooi,  with  no  dissent,  much  less  opposition,  except  that,  in  the  former 
of  these  islands,  a  chief  of  secondary  influence  stood  aloof  from  the  whole 
proceeding,  and  preserved  an  idol,  which  had  been  presented  to  him  by 
Tamahamaha.  The  accounts,  given  by  eye-witnesses,  are  perfectly  explicit 
and  harmonious,  as  to  these  facts.  Tamoree,  king  of  Atooi,  expressed 
himself  as  being  exceedingly  desirous  that  missionaries  should  come  and 
teach  the  people  to  read  and  write,  as  had  been  done  in  the  Society  Islands. 
This  he  did  in  conversation  with  American  sea-captains,  and  wrote  a 
letter,  to  the  same  effect,  by  the  vessel  which  brought  this  intelligence, 
addressed  to  his  son  at  Cornwall.  This  son,  though  not  attached  to  the 
mission,  sailed  with  the  missionaries,  and  professed  a  desire  to  befriend 
them,  and  to  promote  the  cause  of  truth  among  his  countrymen.  It  is 
hoped,  that  he  was  received  by  his  father  in  health  and  peace,  several 
months  before  the  abovementioned  letter,  the  principal  object  of  which 
ivas  to  solicit  his  return,  arrived  in  this  country. 

The  principal  means,  which  Providence  used  to  bring  about  this  sur 
prising  result,  was  the  continually  repeated  rumor  of  what  had  been  done 
in  the  Society  Islands,  and  the  continually  repeated  assurance  of  our  sea- 
captains  and  sailors,  that  the  whole  system  of  idolatry  was  foolish  and 
stupid.  Thus  has  a  nation  been  induced  to  renounce  its  gods  by  the  influ 
ence  of  Christian  missionaries,  who  reside  at  the  distance  of  nearly  3,000 
miles  across  the  ocean.  Thus,  while  the  Gospel  is  becoming  the  power 
of  God  and  the  wisdom  of  God,  to  many  in  the  islands  of  the  Southern 
Pacific,  the  distant  rumor  of  these  blessed  results  has  made  the  idola 
ters  of  the  Northern  Pacific  ashamed  of  their  mummeries,  and  con 
signed  to  the  flames  the  high  places  of  cruelty,  the  altars,  and  the  idols 
together. 

FOREIGN  MISSION  SCHOOL — This  consecrated  Seminary  was  instituted 
in  the  autumn  of  1816,  and  opened  in  the  beginning  of  May  1817.  There 
belong  to  it  a  commodious  edifice  for  the  school,  a  good  mansion  house, 
with  a  barn,  and  other  out-buildings,  and  a  garden  for  the  Principal; — a 


1820.  REPORT.  307 

house,  barn*&c.,  with  a  tew  acres  of  good  tillage  land  for  the  Steward 
and  commons: — all  situated  sufficiently  near  to  each  other  and  to  the 
Congregational  meeting-house,  in  the  south  parish  of  Cornwall,  Con. 
— and  eighty  acres  of  excellent  wood  land,  about  a  mile  and  a  half 
distant. 

The  object  of  the  school  as  set  forth  in  the  constitution,  is — "The  edu 
cation  in  our  own  country  of  heathen  youths,  in  such  manner,  as,  with 
subsequent  professional  instruction  will  qualify  them  to  become  useful 
Missionaries,  Physicians,  Surgeons,  School  Masters,  or  interpreters;  and 
to  communicate  to  the  heathen  nations  such  knowledge  in  agriculture  and 
the  arts,  as  may  prove  the  means  of  promoting  Christianity  and  civiliza 
tion''  As  these  youths  are  designed  for  a  higher  education,  than  is  expect 
ed  to  be  obtained  at  our  mission  schools  in  heathen  countries,  it  is  deemed 
of  no  small  importance,  that  they  be  only  such  as  are  of  suitable  age,  of 
docile  dispositions,  and  of  promising  talents. 

In  the  constitution  there  is  a  provision,  that  youths  of  our  own  country, 
of  acknowledged  piety,  may  be  admitted  to  the  school,  at  their  own 
expense,  and  at  the  discretion  of  the  Agents. 

In  the  first  year  of  the  school  twelve  youths  were  admitted — ten  from 
heathen  lands  and  two  natives  of  Connecticut.  Of  these,  Henry  Obookiah, 
John  Honooree,  Thomas  Hopoo,  and  William  Tennooe,  had  before  been 
objects  of  Christian  liberality,  and  for  some  time  under  Christian  instruc 
tion.  The  raised  hopes,  founded,  under  Providence,  on  the  unquestioned 
piety,  the  distinguished  talents,  and  the  excellent  character  of  Obookiah, 
terminated  in  his  triumphant  departure  from  these  earthly  scenes,  before 
the  first  year  of  the  school  had  expired.  Of  his  three  companions, 
Honooree,  Hopoo,  and  Tennooe,  Mr.  Ruggles,  one  of  the  two  Connecti 
cut  youths,  and  George  Tamoree,  particular  mention  has  just  been  made 

under  the   head  of  the  Sandwich   Island   mission. Of  the  other  six, 

admitted  the  first  year,  James  Ely,  the  other  Connecticut  youth,  and 
George  Sandwich  and  William  Kummoo-olah  from  the  Sandwich  Islands, 
are  still  members  of  the  school;  one  has  been  dismissed  for  misbehavior, 
one  for  incapacity,  and  the  other  is  absent. 

From  year  to  year,  since  the  first,  youths  of  different  nations  have  been 
admitted;  two  or  three  of  whom,  after  longer  or  shorter  trial,  have  been 
dismissed.  Care,  however,  has  been  taken,  that  those,  who  have  been 
dismissed,  should  be  placed  in  good  families,  where  they  might  still  have 
the  benefit  of  Christian  instruction. 

The  present  number  of  pupils  is  twenty-nine;  four  from  the  Sandwich 
Islands — one  from  Otaheite — one  from  the  Marquesas — one  Malay — eight 
Cherokees — two  Choctaws — three  of  the  Stockbridge  Tribe — twoOneidas 
— one  Tuscarora — two  Caughnewagas — one  Indian  youth  from  Pennsyl 
vania,  and  three  youths  of  our  own  country. 

Under  the  instruction  of  the  able  and  highly  respected  Principal,  the 
Rev.  Mr.  Daggett,  and  his  very  capable  and  faithful  Assistant,  1Mr.  Pren 
tice,  the  improvement  of  the  pupils,  in  general,  has  been  increasing  and 
satisfactory,  arid  in  not  a  few  instances  uncommonly  good.  Besides  being 
taught  in  various  branches  of  learning,  and  made  practically  acquainted 
with  the  useful  arts  of  civilized  life;  they  are  instructed  constantly  and 
with  especial  care  in  the  doctrines  and  duties  of  Christianity.  Nor  has 
this  instruction  been  communicated  in  vain.  Of  the  thirty-one  heathen 


308  REPORT.  1820. 

youths — including,  with  the  twenty-six  now  at  school,  the  deceased  Oboo- 
kiah,  and  the  four,  who  have  gone  with  the  mission  to  their  native  Islands 
— seventeen  are  thought  to  have  given  evidence  of  a  living  faith  in  the 
Gospel;  and  several  others  are  very  seriously  thoughtful  on  religious  con 
cerns.  The  Lord,  in  his  sovereign  goodness,  has  made  it  strikingly 
manifest,  that  his  face  is  toward  this  favored  Seminary,  and  that  his 
blessing  rests  upon  it.  May  it  be  eminently  instrumental  in  making 
known  the  glory  of  his  name  in  many  lands,  and  of  bringing  multitudes 
of  different  nations  and  tongues,  to  unite  in  songs  of  everlasting  joy  and 
praise. 

EXPENDITURES  AND  RECEIPTS.— Since  the  last  Annual  Meeting,  your 
Committee  have  sent  forth  to  different  fields  23  men  and  13  women:  10 
men  and  7  women  to  the  Sandwich  Islands — I  man  to  Ceylon — 2  men 
to  Western  Asia — 8  men  and  6  women  to  the  Choctaw  nation — and  2 
men  to  the  Cherokees  of  the  Arkansas.  Of  the  men,  five  are  ordained 
missionaries — one  is  a  physician,  one  is  a  printer,  and  the  rest,  besides 
being  skilled  in  husbandry  and  various  mechanical  arts,  are  men  of  vigor 
ous  and  well  informed  minds,  in  sound  bodies,  inured  to  labor,  and  of 
approved  civil  and  Christian  character;  4  are  men  in  middle  life  with  well 
governed  and  well  educated  families; — the  rest,  young  men,  8  of  whom 
are  married;  the  most  of  them  have  been  exercised  in  the  instruction  of 
schools,  and  all  of  them  are  deemed  well  qualified  to  take  part  in  the 
arduous,  benevolent,  and  sacred  work  of  evangelizing  and  civilizing  pagan 
and  uncultured  people. 

The  fitting  out  of  missionaries,  and  getting  them  to  the  fields  of  labor, 
must  be  attended  with  not  inconsiderable  expense.  Many  things  are  to 
be  done  in  the  preparations,  requiring  various  attentions,  and  journeyings, 
and  labors,  and  occasioning  numberless  contingent  expenses.  Many  arti 
cles  are  comprised  in  the  necessary  outfits  and  provision,  for  the  individu 
als,  and  families,  and  establishments.  And  conveyances  by  water  or  by 
land  are  expensive. 

The  total  expense  of  the  Sandwich  mission,  paid  from  the  Treasury, 
besides  much  which  was  given  by  liberal  individuals  in  various  articles  not 
included  in  the  Treasurer's  account,  was  somewhat  more  than  $10,000. 
Of  this  sum  $224  were  paid  for  the  travelling  expenses  of  the  members 
of  the  mission, — $275  for  transportation  of  baggage  to  Boston, — $2,500 
for  passage  to  the  Islands, — almost  $2,000  for  stores  for  the  use  of  the 
missionaries  on  their  passage  and  after  their  arrival, — almost  $1,000  for 
family  furniture,  clothing,  and  mechanical  and  agricultural  implements, — 
$775  for  printing  prrss  and  apparatus, — and  $866  for  mathematical, 
philosophical,  and  surgical  instruments. 

To  persons  riot  conversant  with  these  matters,  these  items  and  the  total 
amount  might  appear  extravagant.  And  yet  in  proportion  to  the  magni 
tude  of  the  mission  the  expenditure  was  small.  It  would  appear  so  on 
comparison  with  the  cost  of  English  missions. 

If  it  costs  less  to  fit  out  and  convey  men  to  our  stations  in  the  wilder 
ness  of  our  own  country,  it  does  not,  however,  cost  less  to  get  an  estab 
lishment  there  into  operation,  or  in  its  early  stages  to  maintain  it.  And 
during  the  year,  the  missionaries  already  in  the  field  were  to  be  pro- 
Tided  for^  and  the  establishments  already  in  operation  to  be  supported 


1820.  REPORT.  309 

as  well  as  new  men  to  be  sent  out  and  new  establishments  to  be  com 
menced. 

Within  the  year  the  Treasury  has  disbursed  for  the  Bombay  mission, 
$7,221— for  the  Ceylon,  $7,135— for  the  Cherokee,  $9,967— for  the 
Choctaw,  $10,414— for  the  Arkansas,  $1,150— for  the  Palestine,  $2,348 
— for  the  Foreign  Mission  School,  $3,350 — and  for  all  the  objects  and 
purposes  of  the  Board,  $57,420. 

It  was  not  to  be  expected — especially  if  the  distressing  scarcity,  or 
stagnation  of  the  circulating  medium  were  considered, — that  there  would 
be  in  the  year  an  advance,  upon  the  receipts  of  preceding  years,  equal 
or  proportionate  to  the  large  additions  made  to  our  missions,  or  the  con 
sequent  augmentation  of  expense.  It  is  not  indeed  according  to  the 
general  course  of  things,  that  in  the  management  of  extensive  and  pro 
gressive  concerns,  public  or  private — incurring  large  expenditures,  and 
depending  upon  many  contingencies — the  receipts  in  each  year  should 
be  very  exactly  or  nearly  proportionate  to  the  disbursements  In  one 
year  the  disbursements  will  come  short  of  the  receipts, — in  other  years 
they  will  go  beyond  them;  even  in  concerns  conducted  upon  the  soundest 
principles,  and  with  the  greatest  success.  It  has  been  so  with  the  con 
cerns  of  this  Board.  In  some  former  years  there  was  a  surplus  of  income 
which  was  kept  in  reserve,  to  be  used  in  succeeding  years,  as  the  exigen 
cies  or  interests  of  the  Institution  should  require. 

The  donations,  contributions,  and  benefactions,  from  societies,  church 
es,  congregations,  and  individuals,  received  at  the  treasury,  within  the 
year  ending  with  the  last  month,  amounted  to  $36,500;  and  the  income 
from  the  permanent  fund,  and  other  sources,  to  $2,600,  making  in  the  total 
sum  $39,000.  This,  as  will  be  seen,  come  shorts  of  the  total  amount  of 
expenditures  by  $18,000. — For  the  supply  of  the  deficiency,  it  has  been 
found  necessary  to  draw  upon  the  disposable  funds  of  the  Board,  accumu 
lated  from  preceding  years. 

Though  these  receipts  are  not  equal  to  the  disbursements,  yet  your 
Committee  have  the  high  gratification  to  state, — and  they  would  do  it  with 
a  grateful  sense  of  the  liberality  of  individuals  and  of  the  Christian  public, 
and  with  devout  thankfulness  to  the  God  of  all  grace, — that  the  donations 
exceeded  those  of  any  preceding  year  by  $2,600.  This  deserves  more 
especial  notice  on  account  of  the  scarcity  or  stagnation,  before  alluded  to. 
Allowing  for  the  embarrassment  and  distress,  arising  from  this  cause,  and 
felt  in  all  parts  of  the  country,  and  by  all  classes  of  the  community — it 
were  moderate  to  consider  $36,000,  given  in  this  last  year,  as  being  equal 
to  $50,000  in  times  as  they  were  in  preceding  years.  And  in  this  ratio, 
it  may  be  right,  in  point  of  justice,  and  gratitude,  and  encouragement,  and 
confidence, — to  estimate  the  increase  of  liberality  in  the  community  towards 
the  objects  of  the  Board. 

And  it  is  deemed  proper,  and  of  some  importance  to  be  noted,  that  this 
increase  of  liberality,  is  not  to  be  attributed  to  extraordinary  efforts  in  the 
way  of  solicitation  or  excitement.  Efforts  of  that  kind  were  even  less 
abundant  and  less  expensive  than  in  former  years.  Little,  indeed,  was 
done,  excepting  by  an  Address  of  the  Committee  to  the  Auxiliaries  and 
patrons,  and  benefactors,  and  friends  of  the  Board;  and  a  considerable 
number  of  brief  local  agencies  in  connexion  with  it.  Of  the  manner  in 
which  this  address  was  every  where  received  and  answered,  the  Commit- 


310  REPORT.  1820, 

tee  would  find  it  impossible  adequately  to  express  their  grateful  sense. 
It  afforded  a  proof,  inestimably  valuable,  of  the  affectionate,  and  stable,  and 
liberal  confidence  and  attachment  of  the  Christian  community  towards  the 
Board,  and  its  great  object. 

Besides  the  donations  in  money,  numerous  contributions  have  been 
made  in  various  articles  for  the  mission.  These  are  not  included  in  the 
Treasurer's  account;  and  the  amount  of  value  cannot  be  ascertained.  It 
is  not,  however,  inconsiderable.  For  the  Sandwich  mission  a  noble  spirit 
of  liberality  was  displayed;  particularly  in  the  places  and  vicinities  where 
the  missionaries  had  resided;  and  in  Boston,  Salem,  and  some  of  the 
neighboring  towns,  of  whose  cheering  liberality  every  mission  has  partici 
pated.  And  for  the  Cherokee  and  Choctaw  missions,  a  spirit  not  less 
noble  has  been  very  extensively  manifested,  and  continually  increasing 
and  spreading.  From  more  than  a  hundred  different  places  in  the  north 
and  in  the  south — boxes  of  clothing,  of  almost  every  kind  suitable  for  the 
children  of  the  schools — and  some  for  the  missionaries  and  their  families 
— have  been  prepared  and  sent  forward.  Of  about  a  fifth  part  of  them, 
the  value  was  estimated  and  marked  by  the  donors;  and  the  amount  is 
about  $1,140.  This  taken  as  a  general  average,  would  give  the  amount 
of  the  whole  at  $5,700.  This  sum,  added  to  the  $36,500  in  money  would 
make  a  total  of  $42,200. 

The  articles  of  clothing  are  chiefly  the  fruits  of  female  benevolence; — 
that  rich  and  perennial  source,  whose  streams  give  life  and  beauty  to  Zion, 
and  shall  make  the  wilderness  glad,  and  the  desert  to  rejoice  and  blossom 
as  the  rose. 

"We  ought  to  be  very  grateful  to  God,"  says  the  Brainerd  Journal, 
"for  putting  it  into  the  hearts  of  his  children,  to  send  from  the  most 
remote  parts  of  the  United  States,  these  seasonable  supplies — to  cover 
these  naked  children  of  the  forest,  and  in  that  way  to  evince  the  power 
and  excellency  of  his  Gospel,  which  he  has  commanded  to  be  preached  to 
every  creature." 

To  these  donations  from  the  Christian  community,  ought  surely  to  be 
added,  and  with  a  strong  note  of  grateful  admiration,  the  unprecedented 
donations  of  the  Choctaws. 

That  poor,  pagan,  and  lost  people  of  the  wilderness  have,  within  a  year, 
pledged  the  annual  sum  of  $6,000,  to  be  received  by  them  from  the  govern 
ment,  during  the  whole  time  it  shall  be  paid,  that  is,  for  16  or  17  years  to 
come,  in  aid  of  the  operations  of  this  Board,  for  the  instruction  of  them 
selves  and  their  children  in  Christianity  and  civilization. 

It  should  be  observed,  however,  that  as  the  Choctaw  donations  do  not 
come  into  our  treasury,  they  do  not  afford  to  the  Board  all  the  strength 
and  facilities  and  advantages,  that  would  be  afforded  by  the  same  amount 
in  the  state  of  our  ordinary  funds.  No  part  of  these  donations  was  at 
disposal  for  supplying  the  insufficiency  of  the  receipts  of  the  year  from 
the  customary  sources,  not  even  in  regard  to  the  Choctaw  mission,  the 
expenses  of  which  exceeded  those  of  either  of  the  other  missions.  Still, 
for  the  purposes  of  that  mission  it  is  a  substantial  endowment,  and  will, 
from  year  to  year,  relieve  the  general  funds,  and  facilitate  and  strengthen 
the  general  operations. 

"The  establishment  at  Elliot,"  say  the  missionaries  there,  "is  not  yet 
complete.  Houses  for  the  accommodation  of  the  mission  families  are 


1820.  REPORT.  311 

needed;  as  are  a  barn  and  two  or  three  small  buildings.  A  hundred  more 
acres  of  land  ought  to  be  opened  and  cultivated.  When  this  is  done,  and 
the  young  stock  grown  so  as  to  supply  the  family  in  a  considerable  degree, 
which  will  be  in  the  course  of  two  or  three  ye  :rs,  we  think  the  $ 2,GGO  a 
year,  appropriated  by  the  natives,  in  connexion  with  the  donations  of 
provisions  and  clothing,  which  may  be  expected  from  the  states,  will 
go  very  far  towards  supporting  the  establishment.  But  to  complete  the 
buildings,  open  sufficient  land,  and  provide  for  the  support  of  the  family 
until  other  means  can  be  brought  into  operation,  considerable  money  will 
be  required. 

"The  appropriations  made  by  the  natives,  for  the  two  other  establish 
ments,  though  they  will  do  much  towards  supporting  them  when  put  into 
operation,  will  be  wholly  inadequate  to  laying  the  foundation.  Unless 
there  are  means,  in  the  first  instance,  for  procuring  a  large  stock,  and 
bringing  under  cultivation  an  extensive  plantation,  the  expenses  of 
provisions  would  be  so  great,  that  it  is  doubtful  whether  it  would  long  be 
supported." 

The  Board  have  been  made  acquainted  heretofore,  with  the  patronage 
afforded  to  our  Indian  missions  by  the  general  government,  with  a  view, 
expressly,  to  the  instruction  of  the  Indians  in  the  arts  of  civilized  life. 
At  the  commencement,  assurance  was  given  by  the  Executive  that  for 
each  establishment  the  expenses  of  erecting  a  school  house  and  a  dwelling 
house  should  be  defrayed  from  the  public  funds,  and  that  a  specified  num 
ber  of  certain  kinds  of  implements  and  utensils  for  husbandry  and  domes 
tic  manufacture  should  be  furnished.  "The  limited  appropriations  for 
the  Indian  Department,"  said  the  Secretary  of  War  at  the  time,  "will  for 
the  present,  preclude  the  executive  government  from  extending  a  more 
liberal  patronage  to  the  Board,  in  their  laudable  efforts  for  the  accomplish 
ment  of  objects  so  very  desirable."  Agreeably,  however,  to  a  hope  then 
expressed  by  the  secretary,  Congress  has  passed  a  law  for  the  appropria 
tion  of  $10,000  a  year,  to  be  applied  under  the  direction  of  the  President 
to  the  instruction  of  the  Indian  Tribes.  Of  this  sum,  $1,000  is  "for  the 
present  allowed  to  our  establishment  at  Brainerd,  and  $1,000  to  that  at 
Elliot."  "When,"  says  the  secretary,  "the  department  is  in  possession 
of  the  necessary  information  [respecting  the  several  establishments  com 
menced  by  this  Board  and  other  societies]  a  more  full  and  complete  distri 
bution  will  be  made,  agreeably  to  prescribed  regulations." 

The  favorable  disposition  manifested  by  the  government,  and  with  in 
creasing  strength  and  benignity,  towards  the  great  object  of  civilizing  the 
Aborigines,  is  to  be  most  gratefully  recognized  and  highly  valued:  not 
only  on  account  of  the  direct  pecuniary  aid  afforded;  but  more  especially 
for  the  security  which  it  gives  to  the  Aborigines  themselves,  to  those  who 
are  engaged  in  this  labor  of  benevolence  on  their  behalf,  and  to  the  whole 
Christian  community,  respecting  them.  An  opposite  disposition  or  policy 
would  be  of  dark  and  disastrous  aspect. 

For  these  Indian  establishments,  however,  and  for  our  more  distant 
missions,  money,  much  money  will  yet  be  required.  It  is  not  to  be  dis 
sembled,  that  to  maintain  the  several  missions,  and  establishments  now 
under  the  direction  of  the  Board,  in  the  vigorous  operation  which  should 
be  desired,  will  cost  scarcely  less  in  each  successive  year,  than  the  amount 
of  the  last  year's  disbursements.  And  yet  the  field  is  wide;  and  yet  more 


REPORT. 

missions  are  urgently  needed  and  demanded.  Thanks  to  the  all-bounte 
ous  Sovereign  of  the  world,  the  Christian  community  in  this  favored  land 
are  abundantly  able  to  supply  the  requisite  funds,  not  only  for  the  missions 
already  sent  out,  but  for  the  support  of  many  more.  Nor  is  there  any 
reason  to  doubt  that  the  same  DIVINE  INFLUENCE,  which  has  so  wonder 
fully  raised  and  diffused  the  spirit  of  benevolence,  during  these  first  ten 
years,  will  raise  it  still  higher,  and  diffuse  it  more  widely. 

In  these  ten  years  there  has  been  paid  from  the  treasury  of  the  Board 
the  total  sum  of  $'201,600.— For  the  mission  to  the  East — Bombay  and 
Ceylon — just  about  $100,000 — for  the  mission  to  the  American  Aborigi 
nes  $51,000 — for  the  mission  to  the  Sandwich  Islands,  $10,470 — for  the 
Palestine  mission,  $2,350 — for  the  Foreign  Mission  School  $17,340,  and 
for  various  subordinate  and  contingent  objects  and  purposes  $20,000. 

In  the  same  period  the  treasury  has  received  the  total  sum  of  about 
$235,000.  Of  this  amount  something  more  than  $220;000  were  given 
by  benevolent  individuals,  males  and  females,  associated  and  unassociat- 
ed,  in  donations  and  bequests  for  the  general  and  particular  objects  of  the 
Board;  and  the  remaining  sum  of  about  $15,000  were  the  proceeds  of 
monies  invested,  books  sold,&,c.  Besides  the  monies  paid  into  the  treas 
ury,  many  liberalities  have  been  bestowed  in  various  articles,  in  different 
ways,  and  to  no  inconsiderable  aggregate.  But  the  amount,  whatever 
should  be  the  estimate,  is  to  be  added  to  the  regularly  accounted  for  expen 
ditures,  as  well  as  to  the  regularly  entered  receipts. 

Of  the  sum  expended  much  has  necessarily  been  consumed,  yet  riot  a 
little  remains  for  important  and  durable  use. 

In  the  ten  years  there  have  been  received  under  the  patronage  and 
direction  of  the  Board,  as  missionaries  and  assistants,  62  men  and  48 
women — in  all  110.  Of  this  number  three — Mrs.  Harriet  Newell,  the 
Rev.  Edward  Warren,  and  Mr.  A.  V.  Williams, — have  been  called  to 
their  reward:  ten,  six  men  and  four  women,  have  left  the  service, — three 
on  change  of  sentiment — five  on  account  of  impaired  health,  and  two 
from  discontentment, — and  nine  are  yet  at  home,  waiting  with  desire  to 
be  sent  forth  to  their  work.  Eighty-eight — 49  men  and  3(.)  women — are 
now  either  in  the  fields  respectively  assigned  to  them,  or  on  their  way  to 
them: — 25  in  the  East, — 2  in  Western  Asia, — 17  in  the  Sandwich 
Islands, — and  44  in  the  countries  of  the  American  Aborigines.  Upon  the 
same  funds,  and  engaged  in  the  same  cause,  are  the  Rev.  Principal  of  the 
Foreign  Mission  School  and  his  worthy  assistant. 

Of  the   men  now  under  the  patronage   and  direction   of  the  Board, 

TWENTY-SIX    ARE    ORDAINED    MINISTERS    OF    THE    GOSPEL,    educated,    the 

most  of  them,  in  Literary  and  Theological  Seminaries  of  the  first  order 
in  our  country;  two  are  especially  designed  for  ordination;  and  the  rest 
are  approved  men  for  the  various  departments  of  the  general  work,  as 
catechists,  school-masters,  agriculturists  and  mechanics.  All  of  them, 
the  Principal  and  assistant  of  the  Foreign  Mission  School  excepted,  have 
given  themselves  devotedly  for  life  to  this  arduous  and  holy  service,  and 
the  most  of  them,  with  the  same  spirit  of  devotion  and  sacred  disinterest 
edness,  have  given  also  all  their  possessions,  which,  in  not  a  few  instances, 
were  of  very  considerable  amount.  Of  the  women  mention,  proportiona- 
bly  commendatory,  might  be  made. 

At  home  is  the  Foreign   Mission   School,  designed  for  the   thorough 


1820.  REPORT.  313 

education  of  promising  youths  from  different  heathen  lands; — an  institu 
tion  firmly  established  in  the  hearts  of  Christians,  in  a  highly  prosperous 
state,  and  blest  most  signally  with  heavenly  influences.  Abroad  belong 
ing  to  our  several  missions  are  more  than  50  free  schools,  in  which  there 
can  scarcely  be  fewer,  probably  there  are  now  more,  than  3,000  children, 
Hindoo,  Tamul,  Jewish,  Cherokee,  and  Choctaw,  under  Christian  instruc 
tion;  not  less  than  300  of  whom  are  boarding  or  family  pupils,  lodged,  and 
fed,  and  educated,  as  under  the  especial  care  of  the  missionaries. 

NINETY  PERSONS  with  qualifications  for  the  different  parts  of  the  work, 
from  rudimental  instructions  in  the  primary  branches  of  knowledge  and 
arts  of  civilized  life,  to  the  highest  and  holiest  administrations  of  the 
gospel — not  only  ready  for  the  service,  but  actually  for  the  most  part  in 
the  distant  fields  at  their  allotted  stations — disposed  in  order  and  furnished 
— engaged  in  their  various  labors,  and  some  of  them  having  for  a  consid 
erable  time  borne  the  burden  and  heat  of  the  day: — and  more  than  fifty 
schools,  established  in  different  regions  of  darkness,  and  containing  under 
Christian  instruction  three  thousand  children  of  families  and  nations  long 
ignorant  of  God,  and  never  blest  with  the  news  of  the  Savior — Could  we 
mention  nothing  more,  the  two  hundred  thousand  dollars  expended  in 
ten  years,  should  not  be  accounted  as  lost.  But  something  more  may  be 
mentioned. 

"It  is  estimated."  says  Mr.  Kingsbury,  "that  the  establishment  at  Elliot 
has  cost  upwards  of  $12,000,  exclusive  of  all  the  labor  done  gratuitously 
by  the  missionaries.  But  it  ought  to  be  distinctly  kept  in  mind,  that  the 
greater  part  of  this  money  has  not  been  consumed.  It  has  been  vested 
in  various  property,  some  of  which  is  of  the  most  productive  kind,  and 
which  may  be  considered  as  a  permanent  fund  for  the  support  of  the 
mission.  There  are  now  belonging  to  the  establishment  at  Elliot,  more 
than  200  neat  cattle.  There  are  also  teams  of  oxen  and  horses,  wagons, 
carts,  ploughs,  and  other  implements  of  husbandry,  suitable  for  a  large 
plantation.  More  that  fifty  acres  of  land  are  cleared  and  under  cultiva 
tion.  Upwards  of  twenty  buildings,  including  a  blacksmith's  shop,  mill, 
and  joiner's  shop,  have  been  erected.  Mechanical  tools  for  various 
branches; — lessons,  books,  and  stationary  for  the  school,  have  been  provid 
ed;  and  all  the  varied  apparatus  prepared  for  the  accommodation  of  a 
family  consisting  of  one  hundred." 

Similar  statements  and  estimates  might  be  made  respecting  the  estab 
lishments  at  Brainerd,  on  the  Tombigby,  and  at  Talony. — The  missions 
over  the  sea  are  upon  a  different  plan.  But  at  Bombay  we  have  a  print 
ing  establishment,  comprising  two  presses,  founts  of  English  and  Nagree 
types,  with  the  requisite  apparatus;  and  various  accommodations  and 
articles  of  durable  utility  for  the  various  purposes  of  the  mission.  Our 
Ceylon  mission,  besides  the  very  valuable  glebes  and  edifices  secured 
to  it,  has  also  a  printing  press  with  founts  of  English  and  Tamul  types, 
a  hospital,  and  several  school  houses;  and  a  proportional  provision  of 
what  is  necessary  for  a  permanent  mission.  A  large  part  of  what  was 
sent  out  with  the  Sandwich  Islands  mission,  was  not  for  immediate  con 
sumption,  but  for  durable  use.  The  lands,  buildings,  d&c.,  of  our  school 
at  Cornwall — what  may  be  denominated  permanent  property,  were  esti 
mated  at  more  than  $5,000.  The  libraries,  and  the  surgical  instruments, 
40 


314  REPORT.  1820. 

belonging  to  our  several  establishments,  would,  altogether,  be  of  consider 
able  value. 

The  two  hundred  thousand  dollars  then  is  not  all  consumed — has  not 
all  vanished  away.  By  means  of  it  a  preparation  for  action  of  no  inconsid 
erable  extent  has  been  brought  forward.  And  in  the  general  view  of  this 
preparation,  besides  what  has  now  been  mentioned,  whatever  has  been 
acquired  of  knowledge,  of  experience,  and  skill,  in  directing  and  execut 
ing  this  great  work,  where  every  thing  was  new,  and  every  thing  was  to 
be  learned, — and  whatever  systematic  and  permanent  arrangements  have 
been  made  for  continued  and  extended  operations,  at  home  and  abroad, 
— should  doubtless  be  included. 

GENERAL  RESULTS. — Of  effects  and  fruits  actually  produced,  it  is  yet 
time  to  expect  but  little,  and  to  say  but  little. 

The  translation  of  the  Scriptures,  however,  into  one  of  the  principal 
languages  of  India — ready  to  be  given  to  ten  millions  of  people,  as  soon 
and  as  fast  as  means  for  the  printing  and  distributing  shall  be  afforded, — 
the  actual  printing  and  distributing  among  that  pagan  population  of  large 
editions  of  select  portions  of  the  Scriptures,  and  scriptural  catechisms  and 
tracts; — the  teaching  of  several  thousands  of  heathen  children — including 
those  who  have  attended,  as  well  as  those  who  are  now  attending  the 
schools,  so  that  they  are  able  to  read  the  Bible,  and  other  useful  books, 
and  have  some  knowledge  of  the  truths  and  precepts  of  the  Gospel; — the 
preaching  of  the  Gospel  to  many  thousands  of  heathen  people  of  different 
ages,  ranks  and  conditions,  thus  sowing  the  incorruptible  seed,  in  a  widely 
extended  field,  where,  under  the  genial  influences  of  heaven,  it  may  in 
due  time  take  root  and  spring  up,  and  where  undoubtedly  it  will  not  have 
been  sown  in  vain; — and  the  turning  of  more  than  fifty  heathen  persons 
hopefully,  from  darkness  unto  light,  and  from  the  power  of  Satan  unto  God, 
for  their  own  salvation  with  eternal  glory,  and  for  the  communication, 
through  their  instrumentality,  of  the  blessings  of  Christianity  to  many  of 
their  respective  kindred  and  nations: — These  effects  and  fruits,  which  to 
pass  over  unnoticed  in  this  general  review,  would  be  an  ungrateful  omis 
sion,  and  the  value  of  which  is  not  to  be  estimated  by  thousands,  or  hun 
dreds  of  thousands,  or  millions,  of  money. 

Ten  years  ago  the  Aborigines  of  our  country  were  regarded  by  this 
great  community,  with  the  exception  of  here  and  there  an  individual,  as 
an  utterly  intractable  race,  never  to  be  brought  within  the  pale  of  civilized 
society,  but  doomed  by  unalterable  destiny,  to  melt  away  and  become 
extinct;  and  a  spirit  of  vengeance  and  of  extermination  was  breathed  out 
against  them  in  many  parts  of  our  land.  Not  a  few,  even  of  the  generally 
well  disposed  and  well  informed  friends  of  missions,  held  the  projected 
mission  to  those  outcasts  of  the  wilderness  a  hopeless  enterprise.  Now 
the  whole  nation  is  moved  by  a  very  different  spirit.  From  the  highest 
places  of  the  national  government  down  to  the  humblest  conditions  of 
society,  all  classes  are  inspired  with  goodwill  towards  the  Indians.  The 
desire  to  serve  rather  than  to  destroy  them  is  every  where  testified;  and 
to  evangelize  and  civilize  them  is  regarded  as  no  infeasible  or  very  diffi 
cult  work.  The  method  seems  plain  and  easy. — If  by  favor  of  Providence 
this  Board  has  been  leadingly  instrumental  in  effecting  this  auspicious, 
change, — if  the  system  of  instruction  which  it  has  put  into  operation  in 


1820.  REPORT.  315 

the  Cherokee  and  Choctaw  nations  has  conciliated  the  favor  and  secured 
the  confidence  of  the  Indian  chiefs  and  tribes  extensively,  and  also  of  the 
rulers  and  people  of  our  nation, — has  commended  itself  as  a  model  for 
other  societies  coming  forward  to  take  part  in  the  general  work, — and 
has  produced  examples  of  Indian  improvement,  which  have  engaged  the 
attention  of  all  classes  of  the  community  and  awaked  in  them  a  lively  inter 
est  in  the  great  design; — the  Board  has  not  existed  in  vain,  nor  labored  in 
vain. 

To  the  good  effects  produced  in  our  own  country,  while  the  great 
object  has  been  to  do  good  to  heathen  nations,  further  attention  seems  to 
be  due. 

The  spirit,  the  genuine  spirit  of  missions,  is  the  true  spirit  of  the  Gospel. 
It  is  love  to  God  and  love  to  men;  the  charity  which  seeketh  not  her  own, 
and  is  full  of  mercy  and  of  good  fruits;  benevolence  in  its  purest,  loveli 
est,  and  highest  character.  It  is  the  same  mind,  that  was  in  the  Redeemer 
of  men,  when  he  came  to  seek  and  to  save  that  which  was  lost; — the 
spring  of  living,  active,  never-to-be-restrained  desire  for  the  promotion  of 
the  great  design  for  which  he  endured  the  cross,  and  for  which  he  sits  as 
King  on  the  holy  hill  of  Zion.  When  this  spirit  is  produced  or  advanced 
in  an  individual,  or  a  community,  in  the  same  measure  is  pure  and  unde- 
filed  religion,  in  that  individual  or  community,  produced  or  advanced. — 
If  then  this  spirit  has  been  promoted,  good  has  been  done. 

The  matter  of  fact  is  manifest.  The  Christian  community  has  been 
waked  from  its  slumbers.  An  influence  more  vivifying  than  the  breath  of 
spring  has  been  diffused  through  the  land.  The  minds  and  hearts  of 
many,  of  different  classes  and  denominations,  have  been  opened  and 
expanded,  to  perceive  and  to  feel  the  common  brotherhood  of  all  nations 
and  of  all  human  beings,  as  made  of  one  blood,  and  REDEEMED  BY  ONE 
BLOOD.  The  reasonableness  of  the  injunction,  to  do  good  unto  all  men 
as  we  have  opportunity,  and  the  commandment  of  the  everlasting  God  that 
the  Gospel  should  be  made  known  to  all  nations,  and  preached  to  every 
creature, — have  come  to  be  practically  acknowledged.  Societies  for  vari 
ous  charitable  and  religious  objects  have  rapidly  risen  into  existence  and 
action;  and  benefactions  for  these  objects — contributions  in  churches  and 
congregations  and  meetings  for  prayer,  and  individual  subscriptions,  dona 
tions  and  bequests — have  become  so  common,  that  we  are  ready  to  forget 
how  little  of  them  was  known  only  a  few  years  ago.  .fltnrmft  1 

In  as  far  as  this  Board  has  been  instrumental  in  producing  these  effects;^  * 
by  its  several  missions  to  heathen  nations — by  the  cheerful  sacrifices  and 
labors  of  its  devoted  missionaries — by  its  disclosures  of  the  ignorance, 
corruption  and  wretchedness  of  the  dark  places  of  the  earth — by  its 
successive  agencies  in  different  parts  of  the  country,  the  communications 
it  has  made  of  intelligence  with  motives  and  excitements  to  benevolent 
exertions,  and  its  various  operations  at  home  and  abroad, — its  endeavors 
and  influences  have  conduced  to  the  benefit  of  many.  Especially  has 
it  been  so,  if  by  them  the  monthly  concert  of  prayer,  which  is  connected 
in  a  particular  manner  with  missions  to  the  heathen,  has  been  promoted 
and  extended, — and  if  these  extensively  united  prayers  and  alms  have 
gone  up  with  acceptance  before  God,  and  in  answer  to  them,  in  any 
measure,  he  has  granted  those  plenteous  effusions  of  his  Spirit  with  which 
our  churches  and  the  various  classes  of  the  community  have  been  so 
signally  blest. 


316  REPORT.  1820. 

Had  the  object  been,  chiefly  or  solely,  the  advancement  of  religion  in 
our  own  land,  in  what  other  way  could  two  hundred  thousand  dollars 
have  been  better  laid  out.  The  support  of  FORTY  ministers  of  the  gospel 
at  home,  during  the  ten  years,  as  settled  pastors  or  domestic  missionaries 
would  have  cost  probably  little  more  than  the  sum  specified.  But  had 
this  same  money  been  used  for  the  support,  during  the  term,  of  forty  set 
tled  pastors  or  domestic  missionaries — two  to  each  of  the  several  States 
and  Territories  of  the  Union — is  there  good  reason  to  believe  that  more 
would  have  been  done  for  the  general  interests  of  religion  in  our  country, 
than  has  actually  been  effected  by  means  of  this  institution  for  Foreign 
Missions? — more  to  impress  a  deep  and  widely  extended  conviction  of  the 
infinite  importance  of  the  Gospel — more  to  counteract  the  selfishness  and 
worldliness  and  sordidness  of  feeling  and  practice  every  where  so  pre 
valent — more  to  illustrate  the  nature,  to  display  the  excellence,  arid  to 
raise  the  standard  of  Christian  charity — more  to  bring  the  members  of 
the  community  acquainted  with  the  great  concerns  of  the  Redeemer's 
kingdom,  or  to  a  livelier  interest  in  them — more  to  give  enlargement  and 
elevation  to  their  views  and  affections,  and  to  make  them  know  how  much 
more  blessed  it  is  to  give  than  to  receive — more  to  promote  good  will 
among  themselves  and  towards  all  men,  and  to  do  good  unto  all  as  they 
have  opportunity — more  to  beautify  our  Zion,  to  make  her  walls  salva 
tion  and  her  gates  praise, — and  cause  her  so  to  rise  and  shine,  as  that 
the  Gentiles  shall  come  to  her  light,  and  kings  to  the  brightness  of  her 
rising? 

It  is  the  spirit  of  missions — the  spirit  which  burns  with  quenchless 
desire  to  teach  all  nations  and  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature — 
that  has  produced  in  Christendom  the  mighty  movement,  and  the  diversi 
fied  and  multiplied  exertions  of  benevolence,  by  which  the  present  age  is 
so  signally  marked.  Until  the  first  missions  of  this  new  era  were  sent 
forth  to  the  distant  heathen,  Christendom  was  asleep,  while  the  world  was 
perishing — was  dreaming  of  temporal  changes,  disastrous  or  prosperous, 
while  darkness  covered  the  earth  and  gross  darkness  the  people.  Aroused 
from  their  slumbers  by  the  efforts  of  those  great  Christian  enterprises, 
the  friends  of  God  and  of  men  were  amazed  at  the  ignorance,  corruption 
and  wretchedness  every  where  to  be  seen — not  only  afar  off,  but  near  and 
all  around  them.  Their  eyes  affected  their  hearts.  The  liberal  set  them 
selves  to  devise  liberal  things;  and  Bible  Societies,  Tract  Societies,  Edu 
cation  Societies,  sprung  up  in  quick  succession:  and  a  system  of  beneficent 
action  has  been  advancing  with  surprising  and  animating  rapidity.  The 
spirit  of  missions — of  missions  to  the  heathen — is  the  "main-spring  of  the 
whole. 

Under  the  impression  of  this  general  review,  the  directors  and  patrons 
and  friends  of  missions  will  humbly  adore  the  goodness  of  God,  and  be 
animated  to  continued  and  increased  efforts  for  communicating  his  saving 
health  to  millions  ready  to  perish. 

For  this  great  object,  this  Board,  under  the  divine  favor,  possess  advan 
tages,  which  cannot  be  too  highly  prized.  Its  constitution  is  eminently 
adapted  to  vigorous  action,  and  extended  enterprise,  under  responsibilities, 
affording  the  best  possible  security  to  public  and  individual  confidence. 
It  is  limited  to  no  section  of  the  country, — to  no  denomimation  of  Chris 
tians.  Its  members,  chartered  and  corresponding,  and  its  patrons,  auxil- 


1820.  REPORT.  317 

aries  and  agents  are  in  all  the  States  of  the  Union,  and  of  nearly  all  the 
considerable  religious  communions.  In  its  form  and  spirit — its  arrange 
ments  and  provisions — its  whole  design  and  system  of  action — it  is  a 
NATIONAL  INSTITUTION.  And  hitherto  the  Lord  has  given  it  favor  in 
all  parts  of  the  land;  and  made  it  instrumental  in  uniting  many  thousands 
of  benevolent  minds  from  the  north  to  the  south,  in  one  common  and 
glorious  cause. — To  Him  everlasting  thanks  are  due. — The  advantages 
which  he  has  granted  are  a  sacred  trust  of  immense  importance — never  to 
be  abused — never  to  be  neglected. 

To  auxiliaries,  agents,  and  benefactors,  fresh  occasion  is  afforded  for 
heartfelt  thanks;  for  their  steady  attachment,  their  generous  confidence, 
their  continued  and  in  many  instances  increased  activity  and  liberality; 
for  their  prompt  assistance  in  pressing  emergencies,  and  their  many  pledges 
of  substantial  and  permanent  support  to  the  cause. 

The  particular  objects  of  the  Board  are  such  in  variety  and  interest  as 
to  meet  the  feelings  of  every  benevolent  heart.  Upon  our  own  borders 
we  present  to  this  Christian  community,  long  neglected  tribes  of  uncivil 
ized  fellow  beings,  earnestly  raising  the  imploring  cry, — "Send  us  more 
of  these  good  missionaries  and  teachers;  help  us  to  learn  husbandry  and 
the  mechanic  arts,  and  household  manufactures  and  economy — teach  our 
children  to  read,  and  write,  and  work — instruct  us  from  the  good  book 
what  the  great  and  good  Spirit  would  have  us  to  do."  And  there  too  we 
present  hundreds  of  children  from  the  wigwams  of  the  forest,  now  under 
the  care  of  devoted  missionaries  and  assistants,  male  and  female,  and  de 
pendent  on  Christian  charity  for  food  and  lodging,  for  clothing  and  instruc 
tion,  and  thousands  more,  not  less  needy  of  these  benefits,  yet  remaining  still 
in  all  the  ignorance  and  nakedness  and  wretchedness  of  the  forest  life.  Far 
off  in  the  Western  Ocean;  yet  not  beyond  the  reach  of  Christian  bene 
ficence — we  shew  a  nation  of  Islanders,  giving  the  fairest  promise  of 
becoming,  in  no  long  time,  by  the  blessings  of  God  upon  such  means  as 
American  Christians  have  it  amply  in  their  power  to  afford,  a  civilized 
and  christianized,  a  wealthy  and  virtuous  and  happy  people.  From  these 
we  turn  to  the  far  distant  East,  and  point  to  millions  and  millions  of 
human  beings  in  the  lowest  state  of  debasement,  for  whom  there  is  no 
remedy,  but  that  quick  and  powerful  Word,  which  is  spirit  and  life,  and 
that  Blood,  which  cleanseth  from  the  foulest  and  deepest  pollutions.  That 
Word,  translated  into  their  own  language  by  our  indefatigable  missiona 
ries,  is  ready  to  be  dispersed  among  these  millions,  as  soon  as  the  liberali 
ties  of  the  friends  of  mankind  in  this  country  shall  supply  funds  sufficient 
for  the  printing  and  distribution;  and  to  that  Blood  the  missionaries 
already  sent  and  to  be  sent,  will  direct  them,  if  adequate  support  be  con 
tinued.  And  there,  to  the  thousands  of  heathen  children  already  in  our 
mission  schools,  multiplied  thousands  might  speedily  be  added,  were  the 
requisite  funds  and  help  afforded.  And  to  the  land,  whence  the  light  of 
immortality  first  shone  upon  the  darkened  nations,  we  solicit  the  attention 
of  all,  who  rejoice  in  this  light;  and  invite  them,  not  to  the  bloody 
achievements  of  maddened  crusades,  but, to  enterprises  of  glory,  with  the 
weapons  which  are  mighty  through  God  to  the  pulling  down  of  strong 
holds,  casting  down  imaginations  and  every  high  thing,  which  exalteth 
itself  against  the  knowledge  of  God.  And  besides  support  for  the  mis 
sionaries  who  are  gone  thither,  and  those  who  are  ardently  desiring  to  go, 


318  REPORT.  1820. 

we  earnestly  ask  for  funds  for  a  printing  establishment  at  such  places  as 
shall  be  found  most  eligible,  by  means  of  which  the  mission  may  be  enabled 
to  communicate  extensively  the  light  of  divine  truth,  and  thus  prepare  the 
way  of  the  Lord,  who  will  ere  long  appear  in  his  glory,  in  the  places, 
where  he  has  been  crucified. 

These  objects  demand  attention,  and  are  making  an  appeal  to  Chris 
tian  benevolence,  of  intense  pathos.  Far  off,  geographically,  as  some  of 
them  are,  yet  morally  and  for  the  purposes  of  charity,  they  are  near. 
The  liberal  in  this  country  may  do  good  and  communicate  to  the  ignorant 
and  the  miserable  in  India,  for  their  immortal  welfare,  with  as  little 
inconvenience  to  themselves,  as  they  can  give  bread  to  the  needy  at  their 
doors.  This  is  known  and  felt  by  many;  and  by  the  charities  which 
they  are  in  the  course  of  dispensing  to  the  needy  and  the  perishing  in  the 
remotest  lands  and  islands  of  the  sea,  as  well  as  in  their  own  immediate 
neighborhoods,  they  are  continually  expanding  their  existence,  enlarging 
their  spheres  of  usefulness,  and  multiplying  their  objects  of  interest,  their 
sources  of  enjoyment,  and  their  ties  of  delightful  union  with  all  on  earth 
and  all  in  heaven. 

In  these  sacred  charities  many  more  would  bear  a  part,  were  they 
acquainted  at  all,  or  better  acquainted,  with  the  objects.  Taking  the 
amount  of  donations  the  last  year  at  $40,000,  and  assume  a  dollar  as  an 
average  donation,  and  the  number  of  donors  will  stand  at  40,000.  If  we 
assume  as  the  average  donation  fifty  cents,  the  number  of  donors  will  be 
80,000.  But  were  there  not  more  than  forty  thousand — more  than  eighty 
thousand — more  than  five  hundred  thousand  in  this  Christian  nation  of 
ten  millions,  who  would  willingly  and  gladly  contribute  from  fifty  cents  to 
fifty  or  five  hundred  dollars  each  towards  some  or  all  of  the  designated 
objects — were  these  objects  only  presented  to  them  in  such  manner  as  to 
engage  their  attention?  This  is  a  consideration  of  immense  importance 
to  be  impressed  upon  all  the  members,  and  agents,  and  auxiliaries,  and 
friends  of  the  Board  and  of  the  cause.  Does  an  individual,  who  is  in  the 
practice  of  contributing,  wish  to  do  something  for  increasing  the  general 
amount  of  contributions?  Let  that  individual  look  around  him  for  one, 
or  two,  or  more,  who  might  be  induced  to  contribute,  and  take  care  to 
use  the  best  means  for  the  purpose,  and  an  increase  not  temporary  only, 
but  permanent,  will  be  secured.  In  this  way,  the  annual  amount  of  con 
tributions  might  be  vastly  augmented  without  any  increase  of  the  donations 
of  the  present  regular  subscribers  or  contributors. 

In  this  view  the  diffusion  of  missionary  intelligence  will  be  seen  to  be 
of  primary  importance.  It  is  hence  the  purpose  of  the  Committee,  with 
the  approval  of  the  Board,  to  make  the  Missionary  Herald  the  property 
entirely  of  the  institution,  to  give  to  it  increased  energy  and  interest, 
and  to  spare  no  pains  in  extending  its  circulation.  And  in  this  design, 
and  in  the  general  work  of  enlightening,  improving  and  exciting  all 
classes  of  the  community,  they  hope  for  the  active  aid  of  every  friend  to 
the  cause. 

CONCLUSION. — The  cause  is  the  noblest  on  earth — the  work  the  greatest 
— the  sure  results  the  most  durable  and  glorious.  No  person  on  earth 
is  in  a  condition  too  high  to  take  part  in  this  work — none  in  a  condition 
too  low,  Help  from  all,  according  to  the  ability  afforded  them,  is  urgently 
needed. 


1820  REPORT.  319 

The  tone  of  this  Report  is  not  that  of  despondency.  Not  a  feeling  of 
despondency  should  have  place  in  any  mind.  Yet  with  all  the  prosperity, 
which  has  attended  this  institution  and  its  attempts,  and  with  all  the 
cheering  auspices,  on  this  day  so  gratefully  to  be  noticed;  it  is  not  to  be 
forgotten,  that  for  supplying  the  deficiency  of  the  last  year's  receipts,  the 
disposable  funds  from  the  surplus  receipts  of  preceding  years,  have  been 
nearly  exhausted.  Should  the  receipts  in  equal,  or  indeed  in  any  con 
siderable  degree,  fall  short  of  the  expenditures  necessary  for  maintaining 
the  establishments,  for  the  support  of  which  the  most  sacred  pledges  have 
been  given;  from  what  source,  or  in  what  way,  is  the  deficiency  to  be 
supplied,  or  the  cause  to  be  saved  from  a  serious  depression?  It  were 
an  unwarranted  confidence,  that  he,  whose  cause  it  is,  will  maintain  it, 
without  the  willing,  the  continued,  the  increased  efforts,  benefactions, 
and  sacrifices  of  his  friends.  What  he  has  been  willing  to  do,  and  what 
sacrifice  to  make,  is  manifest  to  the  universe;  and  he  will  take  care  that 
what  they  are  willing  to  do,  and  what  sacrifices  to  make,  shall  also  be 
made  manifest.  And  what  your  Committee  deemed  it  right  to  say,  in 
their  address  of  last  March,  they  deem  it  right  now,  with  permission, 
emphatically  to  repeat — 

"The  question  is  to  be  decided,  and  it  may  be  decided  soon — whether 
there  is  in  this  country  Christian  benevolence  enough — sufficiently  undi 
vided,  unobstructed,  and  unrestrained — sufficiently  resembling  the  charity 
which  descended  from  heaven — to  bear  any  proportionable  part  in  the 
great  work  of  evangelizing  the  heathen." 

Can  there  be  a  doubt  what  the  decision  will  be?  Can  it  be  appre 
hended,  for  a  moment,  that  this  great  Christian  community — so  rich,  in 
blessings  temporal  and  spiritual,  so  deeply  indebted  to  the  Author  of  these 
blessings, — will  determine,  in  his  face,  and  in  the  face  of  the  universe, 
that  they  will  do  no  more  for  the  recovery  of  their  fellow  beings,  for  whom, 
as  well  as  for  themselves,  he  died?  that  the  devoted  missionaries,  who  have 
gone  forth  in  obedience  to  his  call  and  command  shall  be  left  unsupported 
— that  the  schools  for  raising  up  an  enlightened  and  improved  generation 
shall  be  discontinued  or  diminished — that  the  heathen,  rather  than  make 
for  them  any  further  exertions  or  sacrifices,  shall  perish  in  their  ignorance 
and  corruptions?  After  such  an  issue,  who  in  our  land  could  look  up 
toward  heaven?  Rather  than  such  an  issue  should  come,  who  in  our 
land,  that  hopes  in  the  mercy  of  God  our  Savior,  would  not  merely  give 
a  few  cents,  or  a  few  dollars  a  ^ear,  but  make  a  cheerful  devotement  of 
all  that  he  has?  This  sentiment  will  be  felt.  Not  a  few  feel  it  already. 
And  when  it  shall  have  fired  the  hearts  of  American  Christians,  as 
it  may  be  reasonably  hoped  it  ere  long  will,  there  will  be  no  Jack  of 
funds  for  the  maintenance  and  enlargement  of  the  missions  and  estab 
lishments  already  commenced,  and  for  many  more  which  the  necessities 
of  the  heathen  affectingly  demand.  Then  shall  glory  dwell  in  our  land, 
and  bless  with  its  enlightening  and  healing  emanations,  the  most  dismal 
abodes  of  men. 

By  the  Prudential  Committee, 

Sept.  21,  1820.  S.  WORCESTER,  Secretary. 


320  PECUNIARY   ACCOUNTS.  1820. 


PECUNIARY   ACCOUNTS   OF   THE    BOARD. 

The    American    Board   of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  in  account  current  icith 
Jeremiah   Evarts,   their    Treasurer,   Dr. 

To  cash  paid  from  Sept.  1,  1819,  to  August  31,  1820,  in  conformity  to  orders  of  the  Board, 
and  of  the  Prudential  Committee,  from  No.  435  to  No.  576,  both  inclusive}  viz.  as  classed 
summarily  under  the  following  heads:  viz. 

FOR   THE    MSSSION    IN    BOMBAY   AND   THE    VICINITY. 

Salaries  of  the  missionaries,  rent,  and  other  general  expenses  of  the 

mission,  -  ...  $3,811  17 

To  support  free  schools,  for  the  instruction  of  heathen  and  Jewish  chil 
dren}  and  to  support  heathen  children  in  the  families  of  the  missiona 
ries,  in  case  promising  children  can  be  obtained,  -  -  2,387  96 

For  the  translation  and  publication  of  the  Scriptures  in  the  languages 

of  the  heathen,  ...  - . 1,02209 7,22122 

FOR    THE    MISSION    IN    THE    ISLAND    OF    CEYLON. 

Salaries  of  the  missionaries,  rent,  repairs,  and  other  general  expenses  of 

the  mission,  4,616  05 

To  support  free  schools  for  the  instruction  of  heathen  children;  and  to 
support  heathen  children  in  boarding  schools,  under  the  immediate 
superintendence  of  the  missionaries,  ....  1,263  67 

For  printing  school  books,  portions  of  Scripture,  &c.,  for  the  use  of  the 

schools,  and  for  distribution,  -  -  -  -  -  648  01 

Expense  of  sending  out  Mr.  Garrett:  viz. 

For  his  passage  to  the  Coromandel  coast,  -  -  200  00 

Advanced  for  his  ulterior  expenses  and  his  services,  -        300  00 

Board  while  in  Boston,  stores,  medicines,  &c.,  for  the  voyage,  107  52 607  52 7,135  25 

FOR   THE   PALESTINE    MISSION. 

Residue  of  outfits  of  the  missionaries,            ....  728  88 

Preparatory  expenses  for  the  mission,  medicines,  &.c.                -  -          81  85 

Passage  to  Smyrna,            -                                      ...  400  00 

Advanced  for  salaries  and  other  general  expenses  of  the  mission,  -        800  00 

Books,  <fcc.,  for  the  mission  library,                          -                          -  204  50 
To  commence  the  establishment  of  the  Bible  Society  in  Palestine,  or 

elsewhere  in  that  region,  the  don.  of  ail  individual  for  this  purpose,  133  33        2,348  56 

CHEROKEE    MISSION. 

Remitted  from  the  Treasury,  for  the  general  expenses  of  the  mission,  5,214  81 

Drafts  of  the  missionaries  paid  at  Boston,             ...  4,14000 

Donations  made  at  Brainerd,            .....  479  50 

Articles  purchased  for  the  use  of  the  school,  ...  133  03 9,967  34 

CHOCTAW    MISSION. 

Remitted  from  the  Treasury  for  the  general  expenses  of  the  mission.  4,122  66 

Drafts  of  the  missionaries  paid  at  Boston,            ...  3,200  00 

Donations  received  at  Elliot,            .....  187  93 

Outfits  and  travelling  expenses  of  the  missionaries  and  assistants,  1,469  09 
Various  articles  purchased  at  Boston  for  the  mission,  and  shipped  to 
New   Orleans,  comprising  clothing,  bedding,  groceries,  hardware, 

farming  utensils,  &c.  &c.                                                   -            -  1,278  81 

Provisions  purchased  at  Marietta,  Ohio  for  the  use  of  the  mission,  155  31 — 10,413  80 

ARKANSAS   MISSION. 

Remitted  from  the  Treasury  for  the  general  expenses  of  the  mission,  945  19 

Donations  received  by  the  missionaries  on  their  way,  -  -  204  65        -1,149  84 

INDIAN   MISSIONS   GENERALLY. 

Services  and  travelling  expenses  of  agents  employed  to  collect  donations,  229  83 
Transportation  and  purchase  of  articles,  -  21  84         -251 67 

MISSION   TO  THE   SANDWICH   ISLANDS. 

Outfits  of  missionaries  and  assistants,  ....  1,82155 


Carried  forward, 


1820. 


PECUNIARY    ACCOUNTS. 


321 


Brought  forward,    #1,821  65  $38,487  68 

1  ravelling  expenses  of  the  missionaries,                                               -  224  20 

Other  preparatory  expenses                                                             -  85  87 

Transportation  of  articles'to  Boston^for  embarkation,            -            -  27467 

Passage  to  the  Islands,                                                     -  2,250  00 

Stores  for  use  on  the  voyage,                         -                       ,  .       W^~  ,  1,657  42 

Cash  advanced  to  the  missionaries,        -            ....  500  00 

Stores  for  use  after  arrival,                                      ...  315  37 
Frame  of  a  house,  boards,  shingles,  glass,  nails,  &c.,  for  completing  it, 

and  the  charge  of  storing  and  putting  it  on  board,                         -  548  06 

Clothing  and  materials  for  clothing,                                          .            .  523  74 

Furniture  and  mechanical  implements,                                          -            -  421  35 

Printing  press,  types"  and  other  apparatus,              ...  425  44 

Books,  maps,  globes,  mathematical  and  philosophical  instruments,  819  08 

Surgical  instruments  and^medicines,        -                                    -  395  13 

Services  rendered  in  receiving  and  putting  the  various  articles  on  board,  18  00 

Boxes,  barrels,  bags,  kegs,  &c.  &c.  to  contain  the  articles,        •  36  87 

Premium  on  Spanish  dollars,                        -                                    -  10  00—-  10329  30 

FOREIGN    MISSION    SCHOOL. 

Cash  remitted  from  the  Treasury  for  the  general  expenses  of  the  school,    3,132  65 
Cash  received  at  the  school  in  donations,  -        182  76 

Trav.  expenses  of  the  Marquesas  boys  and  others,  and  various  contingencies,  35  30-—  —5,350  71 

GENERAL   CONTINGENCIES. 

Trav.  exp.  of  the  Mem.  of  the  Board  in  attend,  the  ann.  meeting  287-  50 
Other  expenses  of  the  meeting,  -  -        21  34—  -308  84 

Trav.  expenses  of  the  Sec.  and  Treasurer  on  the  business  of  the  Board,      169  39 
Expense  of  meetings  of  the  Prudential  Committee,  -  6283 

Services  of  agents  employed  to  collect  general  funds,        -          104  00 
Travelling  expenses  of  do.  157  06  —  261  06 

Printing,  viz.  Copies  of  the  Missionary  Herald,  distributed  by  the  Board 
to  Auxiliary  Societies,  sent  to  missionary  stations,  and  to  distinguished 
patrons  and  benefactors  and  friends  of  the  missionary  cause,     915  50 
Tenth  Annual  Report  and  Dr.  Lyman's  Sermon,  312  40 

Mr.  Humphrey's  Sermon,  Instructions  of  the  Prudential  Commit 
tee,  Messrs.  Fisk  and  Parson's  Sermon,  Address  of  the  Pruden 
tial  Committee  and  other  miscellaneous  printing,  330  20  —  1,558  10 

Salary  of  the  Corresponding  Secretary,  ...          5QO  00 

Expenses  in  Cor.  Sec.  department;  viz.  clerkhire,  postage,  and  stationary,  181  90 
Salary  of  the  Treasurer  for  the  year  preceding,  600  00 

Reimbursement  of  monies  actually  expended  by  the  Treasurer  in  the 
discharge  of  his  office,  on  account  of  the  Board,  principally  for  clerk- 


hire,  as  ascertained  by  a  committee  appointed  by  the  Board, 
Paid  by  the  Treasurer  for  postage, 


750  00 


129  64 

Printed  and  other  stationary,  depository  and  furniture,        -  61  30 

Transcribing  and  copying,  -  19  58 

Freight  &  transp.  &  directing  Mis.  Herald,  Rep.  &  Sermons,  107  43-  —  317  95 
Counterfeit  bank  notes,  -  -  28  75 

Discount  on  bank  notes,  some  of  which  were  much  depreciated,          -         155  32 
Advanced  to  the  Rev.  M.  Winslow,  to  enable  him  to  publish  his  history 

of  missions  from  the  avails  of  which  this  advance  is  to  be  refunded,     -      275  60 
Periodical  works  for  the  mission  stations,  —  some  articles  of  printing  app. 

expense  of  meeting  at  the  O.  S.  Church,  charges  of  a  lawsuit,  &c.        -     83  50  ---  5,253  24 


Refunded  to  the  American  Education  Society  a  sum  which  had  been 

paid  to  the  Board  by  mistake. 
Carried  to  the  credit  of  the  Board  in  new  account,  Sept.  1, 1820, 

The  Board  Cr. 

By  balance  brought  to  new  account,  Sept.  1,18J9, 

By  cash  received  in  donations  within  the  year  past,  as  published  in  the  Mission 
ary  Herald,  and  in  the  appendix  to  this  Report, 
From  Government,  for  educating  Indian  youths,  at  Cornwall, 
Avails  of  publications,  and  gain  on  exchange,  -  - 

Interest  of  money  and  stocks,  deducting  interest  paid 
Extra  expense,  paid  for  landing  tho  missionaries  at  Ceylon,  refunded, 


$57,420  93 

200  06 
33,049  98 

$90,670  97 
$50,136  46 

36,582  64 

-      400  00 

197  27 

2,154  60 

1,200  00 

$90,670  97 


*     * 


IP* 


lM^^ 


4ft 


