DOCUMENT_ID: museeprotestant-duplessis-mornay
TITLE (as printed): Philippe de Mornay, also called Duplessis-Mornay (1549-1623)
DATE: accessed 2026-09-07
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://museeprotestant.org/en/notice/philippe-de-mornay-also-called-duplessis-mornay-1549-1623/
EDITION: Musee protestant (Virtual Museum of Protestantism), English page
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (HTML page fetched via curl, boilerplate/nav stripped programmatically, body text preserved verbatim)
TOTAL PAGES: 1 (single web page)
WORD COUNT: 1840

[[img. 1]]
Philippe de Mornay, also called Duplessis-Mornay (1549-1623) - Musée protestant
Virtual Museum of Protestantism
My account
EN
FR
DE
My account
Museum
Major Dates
Timeline: all the key dates in Protestantism
Key figures
Erasmus
Martin Luther
Jean Calvin
Henri IV
History
A History of the Waldensians
The revolution of printing
Martin Luther and the Lutheran Reformation
The eight wars of religion
The Edict of Nantes
The Huguenot Refuge
Themes
Academies and universities
Bible
The Protestant press
Regional protestantism
Protestantism today
Protestants in civic life
The Refuge
Memorial sites
Charitable and social works
Protestantism in Europe
Rites and practices
Theology
Art - Heritage
Protestants have largely participated in the development of arts and heritage: architecture, engravings, literature, music…
History and architecture of the temples
The interior of Protestant temples
Heritage of museums, historical societies and individuals
Protestant artists
Patrimoine funéraire
Tours
Historical tours
500 years ago… Luther posted his 95 theses
The Huguenot Refuges
The revocation of the Edict of Nantes
The eight wars of religion in detail
Wars of religion on the death of Henri IV
Religious crisis in the 16th century
The five reforms in the 16th century
Touristical tours
Paris and the Protestants
Walk in the Nantes protestant
Protestant Strasbourg
A walk through Protestant La Rochelle
Walk in the Protestant Montauban
Thematic tours
The role of women in Protestantism
Filiation of the Christian confessions
Jubilees and commemorations of the Reformation
Protestantism in England
Ecumenical progress
Intradenominational Ecumenism Among Protestants, Anglicans, and Orthodox Christians
Visiting a Protestant temple
Exhibitions
Sébastien Castellion
Gravure de Tortorel et Pérrissin.
Twelve engravings by Tortorel and Perrissin on the wars of religion
Henri IV
Alexis Muston
Media library
Pictures
Movies
Podcasts
News
Museums and Partners
News
Museums and Partners
Philippe de Mornay, also called Duplessis-Mornay (1549-1623)
Home
>
Notes
>
Key figures
> Philippe de Mornay, also called Duplessis-Mornay (1549-1623)
A military captain, a diplomat, a man of letters and a theologian, he contributed to the negotiations leading to the Edict of Nantes.
Captain, diplomat and councillor to the King of Navarre
Philippe Duplessis-Mornay (1549-1623)
Philippe de Mornay, Lord of Plessy-Marly, also called Duplessis-Mornay, dedicated his entire life to the Protestant cause.
He accompanied the King of Navarre, the future Henri IV, in his political and military struggle. He was an outstanding soldier and participated in decisive battles opposing the Huguenots to the armed forces of the League. He won fame at the battle of Coutras, on the 20
th
of October 1587.
Together with his military activities, Duplessis-Mornay exercised an important political role : as early as 1576, he was a councillor to the king of Navarre and ambassador.
When on mission to the Prince of Orange (1578-1582) he measured the European dimensions of the Huguenot struggle. In the Low Countries as well as in the Kingdom of France, by respect of the liberty of thought, he became the protagonist of confessional co-existence as opposed to the Spanish hegemony. In 1582 he leaves the Low Countries within the hands of Monsieur, the King’s brother (François d’Anjou) and once more joins the King of Navarre.
Following the death of François d’Anjou in 1584, Henri of Navarre became the presumed heir to the throne. Duplessis-Mornay became more and more involved in national political debate and attempted to act in favour of a legitimate access of the King of Navarre to the throne of France.
The assassination of the Guise brothers by order of King Henri III opened up new era. De Mornay esteemed it was urgent that Henri III be reconciled with his legitimate heir. But the murder of Henri III by Jacques Clément in 1589 interrupted de Mornay’s attempts to reconcile the two parties.
Duplessis-Mornay and Henri IV
With the access to the throne of Henri IV in 1589, the task of de Mornay as councillor became extremely difficult. He was more and more frequently kept aside from royal initiatives taken against his advice. The King rallied the main Roman Catholic lords and promised to protect their religious stand. The pressure of the League and of Spain was such that the King announced his conversion to Roman Catholicism. De Mornay condemns this conversion but remained faithful to the King.
He took an active par in the negotiations concerning the Edict of Nantes. He did not take part in the wording of the Edict, but contributed to its establishment by pleading with the King in favour of the Protestants and calling for moderation. He did his utmost to overcome all difficulties.
He was regarded by the Protestants as their most obvious protector at the King’s councils, but his influence declined and he left the court in 1598. In 1600 he was definitively put aside from power, following what Hughes Daussy called « the Fontainebleau sacrifice » : his disastrous and humiliating confrontation concerning the Eucharist, with the bishop of Evreux, Jacques Du Perron whom the King openly supported.
From that time on his whole activity was concentrated upon Saumur to he was appointed governor in 1588 and where he founded the Academy of Protestant Theology in 1604.
He worked for the revival of Protestantism and founded the Academy of Protestant theology of Saumur in 1599.
The political thinker and writer
Institution of the Eucharist, by Philippe de Mornay
Duplessis-Mornay was not only a man of political action but likewise of political thought.
He was the inspiration of the propaganda writings that circulated throughout the entourage of Henri of Navarre during the period of 1585-1589. His aim was to prove that the Guise family compromised with the enemy, especially when, on the 31
st
of December 1584, they signed the treaty of Joinville with the representatives of the King of Spain.
In opposition to the League’s firm defence of the notion that faithfulness to the prince is conditioned by one’s religion, Duplessis-Mornay maintained that politics should be distinct from religion. He defends the Salic law against the law of catholicity upheld by the Guise family.
His works show that Duplessis-Mornay was not only a man of political thought and action, but likewise a theologian and exegete.
The all to unity constantly appeared throughout his activities and his thought. In politics he attempted to find a minimum consensus, while in religious affairs he tried to find and establish the principles common to all.
His attacks against the absolute power of the papacy in his
Treatise on the Church
(1578) and his Concerning the institution, the usage and the doctrine of the Holy Sacrament of the Eucharist in the early Church (1598) did not prevent him from working in favour of conciliation between Roman Catholics and Protestants, nor from upholding the idea of a religious concord and hoping for the gathering of a joint council of Protestants and Roman Catholics. He upheld the latter notion in his
In favour of the Council
(1600). He esteemed that between Calvinists and Catholics there were no divergences of a fundamental nature. For this reason nothing should oppose the co-existence of the two confessions.
Bibliography
Books
DAUSSY Hugues,
Les huguenots et le roi : le combat politique de Philippe Duplessis-Mornay (1572-1600)
, Droz, Genève, 2002
DUPLESSIS-MORNAY, Philippe,
Mémoires et correspondance
, Rééd. Genève, Slatkine, 1969, Treuttel et Wurtz, Paris, 1824-1825, Volume 12
PATRY Raoul,
Philippe Duplessis-Mornay. Un huguenot homme d’État
, Fischbascher, Paris, 1933
SALLIOT Natacha,
Duplessis-Mornay, la rhétorique dans la théologie
, Garnier, Paris, 2010
Articles
BARBICHE Bernard, "Duplessis-Mornay et Sully",
Cahiers d'Aubigné,
2006
Associated notes
Sully (1559-1641)
Maximilien de Béthune, Baron of Rosny and Duke of Sully, became a close companion of Henri de Navarre at a very early age. He became his most valuable adviser and his government...
The Edict of Nantes (1598)
This was Henri IV’s major achievement : the terms of this edict ensured the peaceful coexistence of Catholics and Protestants and brought a stop to all hostilities in France after 36 years...
The Reformed Academies in the XVI
th
and XVII
th
centuries
As early as 1565, the synods of the Reformed Churches undertook the training of pastors, encouraging churches to open colleges (a prerequisite for higher education) and universities or “academies” (after...
Pierre Viret (1511-1571)
Pierre Viret devoted his life to teaching theology and spreading the Reformed faith. He was known as an outstanding preacher.
Antoine de Chandieu (1534-1591)
Antoine de Chandieu was a theologian, a man of letters, a poet and also a man of action; he played an important role at the beginnings of the Reform Movement...
Catherine de Parthenay (1554-1631)
Staunch supporter of the defence of the city of La Rochelle against Richelieu in 1627-1628, she was a staunch Huguenot and likewise a poet, a playwright and a mathematician.
Jeanne d’Albret (1528-1572)
She became a convert of Protestantism and made it the official religion in her kingdom of Navarre.
Contents
Captain, diplomat and councillor to the King of Navarre
Duplessis-Mornay and Henri IV
The political thinker and writer
Bibliography
Associated notes
Glossary
Print the notice
Sections
Major Dates
Key figures
History
Themes
Art - Heritage
Virtual Museum of Protestantism
Rubriques
Major Dates
Key figures
History
Themes
Art – Heritage
Parcours
Visite d’un temple protestant
> Voir tous les parcours
Expositions
Alexis Muston (1810-1888)
Henri IV (1553-1610)
Sébastien Castellion (1515-1563)
La guerre des Camisards
Des Églises de France à l’astrologie, Calvin connu et méconnu
> Voir toutes les expositions
Mediatheque
Images
Vidéos
Podcasts
Ebooks
Pages pratiques
Museums and Partners
Method of use
My account
Media library
Glossary
Contact us
Legal information
Privacy policy
Discover also
© 2026 Protestant Museum
Visiter la page Facebook
Visiter la page Youtube
AGGELOS
Gérer le consentement
Pour offrir les meilleures expériences, nous utilisons des technologies telles que les cookies pour stocker et/ou accéder aux informations des appareils. Le fait de consentir à ces technologies nous permettra de traiter des données telles que le comportement de navigation ou les ID uniques sur ce site. Le fait de ne pas consentir ou de retirer son consentement peut avoir un effet négatif sur certaines caractéristiques et fonctions.
Fonctionnel
Fonctionnel
Always active
L’accès ou le stockage technique est strictement nécessaire dans la finalité d’intérêt légitime de permettre l’utilisation d’un service spécifique explicitement demandé par l’abonné ou l’utilisateur, ou dans le seul but d’effectuer la transmission d’une communication sur un réseau de communications électroniques.
Préférences
Préférences
L’accès ou le stockage technique est nécessaire dans la finalité d’intérêt légitime de stocker des préférences qui ne sont pas demandées par l’abonné ou l’internaute.
Statistiques
Statistiques
Le stockage ou l’accès technique qui est utilisé exclusivement à des fins statistiques.
Le stockage ou l’accès technique qui est utilisé exclusivement dans des finalités statistiques anonymes. En l’absence d’une assignation à comparaître, d’une conformité volontaire de la part de votre fournisseur d’accès à internet ou d’enregistrements supplémentaires provenant d’une tierce partie, les informations stockées ou extraites à cette seule fin ne peuvent généralement pas être utilisées pour vous identifier.
Marketing
Marketing
L’accès ou le stockage technique est nécessaire pour créer des profils d’internautes afin d’envoyer des publicités, ou pour suivre l’utilisateur sur un site web ou sur plusieurs sites web ayant des finalités marketing similaires.
Manage options
Manage services
Manage {vendor_count} vendors
Read more about these purposes
Accepter
Refuser
Voir les préférences
Enregistrer les préférences
Voir les préférences
{title}
{title}
{title}
Gérer le consentement
