DOCUMENT_ID: museeprotestant-protestant-education
TITLE (as printed): Protestant education in the 17th century
DATE: accessed 2026-09-07
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://museeprotestant.org/en/notice/protestant-education-in-the-17th-century/
EDITION: Musee protestant (Virtual Museum of Protestantism), English page
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (HTML page fetched via curl, boilerplate/nav stripped programmatically, body text preserved verbatim)
TOTAL PAGES: 1 (single web page)
WORD COUNT: 2128

[[img. 1]]
Protestant education in the 17th century - Musée protestant
in the 17th century">
Virtual Museum of Protestantism
My account
EN
FR
DE
My account
Museum
Major Dates
Timeline: all the key dates in Protestantism
Key figures
Erasmus
Martin Luther
Jean Calvin
Henri IV
History
A History of the Waldensians
The revolution of printing
Martin Luther and the Lutheran Reformation
The eight wars of religion
The Edict of Nantes
The Huguenot Refuge
Themes
Academies and universities
Bible
The Protestant press
Regional protestantism
Protestantism today
Protestants in civic life
The Refuge
Memorial sites
Charitable and social works
Protestantism in Europe
Rites and practices
Theology
Art - Heritage
Protestants have largely participated in the development of arts and heritage: architecture, engravings, literature, music…
History and architecture of the temples
The interior of Protestant temples
Heritage of museums, historical societies and individuals
Protestant artists
Patrimoine funéraire
Tours
Historical tours
500 years ago… Luther posted his 95 theses
The Huguenot Refuges
The revocation of the Edict of Nantes
The eight wars of religion in detail
Wars of religion on the death of Henri IV
Religious crisis in the 16th century
The five reforms in the 16th century
Touristical tours
Paris and the Protestants
Walk in the Nantes protestant
Protestant Strasbourg
A walk through Protestant La Rochelle
Walk in the Protestant Montauban
Thematic tours
The role of women in Protestantism
Filiation of the Christian confessions
Jubilees and commemorations of the Reformation
Protestantism in England
Ecumenical progress
Intradenominational Ecumenism Among Protestants, Anglicans, and Orthodox Christians
Visiting a Protestant temple
Exhibitions
Sébastien Castellion
Gravure de Tortorel et Pérrissin.
Twelve engravings by Tortorel and Perrissin on the wars of religion
Henri IV
Alexis Muston
Media library
Pictures
Movies
Podcasts
News
Museums and Partners
News
Museums and Partners
Protestant education
in the 17th century
Home
>
Notes
>
History
> Protestant education  in the 17th century
The basic aim of Protestant education in the 17th century was to hand on the Reformed faith. It was impossible, at the time, to imagine a non – religious education.
The importance of education
Abraham Bosse, The school master © Musée des Beaux Arts de Tours
For Luther and the reformers, as for the 16th century humanists, it was the duty of parents and of the Churches to give schooling to children. This duty had been an essential component of the French Reformed Churches’
code
since their 1578 national
synod
held in Sainte-Foy.
The Edict of Nantes allowed members of the so-called ‘So-called Reformed Religion’ to run their own schools, but only in places set aside by the same Edict for services of worship.
The « small schools »
As a rule, each Reformed Church set up its own school : in most cases a primary school for boys, but often also primary schools for girls or mixed schools.
The schoolmaster or
regent
was recruited by the presbytery from each Church, the latter providing accommodation and a small salary. This was increased by a contribution paid by the parents (school fees).
The teaching was on an individual basis : each pupil would come up in turn to read, write or recite at the schoolmaster’s desk. The only common activities were psalm-singing and catechism.
The Colleges
The salaries of the Académies professors, Privas Synod, 1612
At the beginning of the 17th century, there were about thirty Reformed colleges (the 1596 national synod of Saumur had stipulated that there should be at least one college for each provincial synod).
At college, a pupil at first studied Latin, then Greek, with history, dialectics and rhetoric in the last two classes.
The day began and ended with prayer while catechism formed part of the school curriculum. The schoolmasters took the pupils to hear the Sunday
sermon
.
The colleges were run by a headmaster selected as much for his spiritual qualities as for his administrative and teaching abilities. The masters and teachers all had to sign the confession of faith and the church code of the Reformed Churches (a decision taken at the 1620 national synod of Alès).
The Academies
Map of the main 17th century Protestant faculties (by R.Flach)
The term Academy described a college which had been upgraded to become a teaching centre of university level and including a faculty of theology, on the Geneva model.
After a two years course consisting mainly of philosophy and leading to a Master of Arts degree, the student could go on for a three years course in theology. The study of Hebrew, Greek, grammar and rhetoric led to a thorough study of the texts.
A student thus acquired a sound basis in theology, necessary to a
« minister
of the word of God », whose « main duty was to preach ».
The primary aim of the Reformed Churches was to train future ministers. But some academies, for instance those of Orthez and Sedan also offered courses in other subjects, such as law or medicine,
The Academy was headed by a rector who often taught as well – he was appointed for one or possibly two years and could be re-elected.
The synods were responsible for financing university education.
At the 1620 synod of Alès, the academies of Die, Montauban, Nîmes, Saumur and Sedan were officially established.
Protestant teaching methods
Although religion was considered to be the main aim of Academy teaching, it was also possible to thoroughly study classics.
Both Protestant colleges and Catholic ones – such as Jesuit or Oratorian – gave great importance to studies with a humanist orientation.
At times, the same school books and exercises were used by both.
But some differences must be mentioned :
the wider choice of authors from the classics in Protestant schools ;
the far greater importance given to biblical texts in the studies of a protestant academy ;
and especially, the Protestants taught Greek, Hebrew and Latin, whereas the Jesuits taught Latin but little else in the way of languages ;
Catholic colleges were all run on the same pattern, whereas each Protestant academy and college had its autonomous organisation.
The Protestant network of academies was gradually dismantled by the State
Puylaurens, Protestant Academy
From 1661 onwards, both the State and the Catholic Church tried to regain control of education in France.
All along the 17th century, various measures were adopted with a view to curtailing the development of Protestant primary schools and colleges. Mixed schools were closed down on moral grounds and if a Protestant Church was no longer in use, its school was closed down with it. The Jesuits would take over the previously Protestant schools.
As for the Academies, measures were taken to drain them of any financial means and their teachers were prohibited from attending synod meetings.
They were destroyed one after the other : Nîmes in 1664, Sedan in 1681, Die in 1684, Saumur and Montauban in 1685. The Academy of Montauban had already been transferred to Puylaurens in 1659.
The result of all this was that many gifted intellectuals fled to the countries which would later be known as the Refuge countries. Many of them were to play an important role in the development of the host country, such as Pierre Jurieu or Pierre Bayle in the Netherlands.
Bibliography
Books
BOURCHENIN Pierre-Daniel,
Études sur les Académies protestantes au XVI
e
et au XVII
e
siècle
, Grassart, Paris, 1882
Centre d'Histoire de la Réforme et du protestantisme,
La Réforme et l’éducation
, 3
e
colloque, Privat, Montpellier, 1974
FELICE Paul (de),
Les protestants d’autrefois
, Fischbacher, Paris, 1897-1901, Tome 4
GARRISSON Janine,
Les Protestants au XVI
e
siècle
, Fayard, Paris, 1988
Articles
DEYON Solange, "Les Académies protestantes en France",
Bulletin de la SHPF,
SHPF, Paris, 1989, Numéro 127, p. 77-86
LEONARD Émile-Guillaume, "Les académies protestantes dans le destin du protestantisme",
Foi et Education,
Fédération protestante de l'enseignement, avril-juin 1969, Numéro 47, p. 61-75
PITTION Jean-Paul, "Les académies réformées de l’édit de Nantes à la Révocation",
Hors-Série. du Bulletin de la SHPF : La Révocation de l'édit de Nantes et le protestantisme français en 1685,
SHPF, Paris, 1986
Associated tours
Protestant education  from the Reform to the Revolution
From the start of the Reform, great importance was assigned to reading and writing, tools necessary to religious instruction based on reading the Bible.
Associated notes
The Lutherans in Paris
It is largely due to the kings of Sweden and their ambassadors as well as to the loyalty of the Swedish pastors, that the constitution of 1679 for the Lutheran...
e
siècle" width="297px" height="300px" loading="lazy">
The geography  of Protestantism (1660)
The reformed Protestants were found essentially in the provinces bordering the Atlantic as well as in the South of France, and not so much in the North of the country.
The Sociology of Protestantism
The sociology of Protestantism shows the “historical” continuity of Protestantism in the Reformed Church and the Lutheran Church, and the development of Evangelical churches.
The sixteen synodal provinces (1660)
The Reformed Churches were grouped together according to the geographical framework of the kingdom’s provinces. Most reformed communities were based in urban areas, but there were also large rural groups...
The Edict of Fontainebleau  or the Revocation (1685)
In October 1685, Louis XIV signed the Edict of Fontainebleau which repealed the Edict of Nantes. It banned Protestant worship and the emigration of Protestants. Pastors were banished.
The last religious wars (1621-1629)
Under Louis XIII, in the wake of the Béarn case, the Protestants rebelled against the king. After their defeat, they lost their political assemblies and their strongholds and as a...
The organisation  of the Reformed Church
The Reformed Churches were organised according to the order of 1559, as had been the case in the sixteenth century. They were ruled by a series of bodies at local,...
The Huguenot Refuge  in Hesse-Cassel
Hesse-Cassel and Brandebourg both gave a generous welcome to French Huguenots.
Valentin Conrart (1603-1675)
Valentin Conrart was a man of letters and the first permanent secretary to the “Académie française”.
Pierre Bayle (1647-1706)
Pierre Bayle can be seen as a forerunner of the Age of Enlightenment because the concept of tolerance was of great importance to him and, a true scholar, he specialized...
Pierre Jurieu (1637-1713)
Pierre Jurieu was a pastor of the “refuge” and defended the rights of the people in the kingdom of Louis XIV.
Abraham Bosse (1604 ?-1676)
Abraham Bosse was brought up as a Calvinist – he made several hundred engravings, some of which depicted scenes from the Gospel in contemporary settings. He was a founder member...
Contents
The importance of education
The « small schools »
The Colleges
The Academies
Protestant teaching methods
The Protestant network of academies was gradually dismantled by the State
Bibliography
Associated tours
Associated notes
Glossary
Print the notice
Sections
Major Dates
Key figures
History
Themes
Art - Heritage
Virtual Museum of Protestantism
Rubriques
Major Dates
Key figures
History
Themes
Art – Heritage
Parcours
Visite d’un temple protestant
> Voir tous les parcours
Expositions
Alexis Muston (1810-1888)
Henri IV (1553-1610)
Sébastien Castellion (1515-1563)
La guerre des Camisards
Des Églises de France à l’astrologie, Calvin connu et méconnu
> Voir toutes les expositions
Mediatheque
Images
Vidéos
Podcasts
Ebooks
Pages pratiques
Museums and Partners
Method of use
My account
Media library
Glossary
Contact us
Legal information
Privacy policy
Discover also
© 2026 Protestant Museum
Visiter la page Facebook
Visiter la page Youtube
AGGELOS
Gérer le consentement
Pour offrir les meilleures expériences, nous utilisons des technologies telles que les cookies pour stocker et/ou accéder aux informations des appareils. Le fait de consentir à ces technologies nous permettra de traiter des données telles que le comportement de navigation ou les ID uniques sur ce site. Le fait de ne pas consentir ou de retirer son consentement peut avoir un effet négatif sur certaines caractéristiques et fonctions.
Fonctionnel
Fonctionnel
Always active
L’accès ou le stockage technique est strictement nécessaire dans la finalité d’intérêt légitime de permettre l’utilisation d’un service spécifique explicitement demandé par l’abonné ou l’utilisateur, ou dans le seul but d’effectuer la transmission d’une communication sur un réseau de communications électroniques.
Préférences
Préférences
L’accès ou le stockage technique est nécessaire dans la finalité d’intérêt légitime de stocker des préférences qui ne sont pas demandées par l’abonné ou l’internaute.
Statistiques
Statistiques
Le stockage ou l’accès technique qui est utilisé exclusivement à des fins statistiques.
Le stockage ou l’accès technique qui est utilisé exclusivement dans des finalités statistiques anonymes. En l’absence d’une assignation à comparaître, d’une conformité volontaire de la part de votre fournisseur d’accès à internet ou d’enregistrements supplémentaires provenant d’une tierce partie, les informations stockées ou extraites à cette seule fin ne peuvent généralement pas être utilisées pour vous identifier.
Marketing
Marketing
L’accès ou le stockage technique est nécessaire pour créer des profils d’internautes afin d’envoyer des publicités, ou pour suivre l’utilisateur sur un site web ou sur plusieurs sites web ayant des finalités marketing similaires.
Manage options
Manage services
Manage {vendor_count} vendors
Read more about these purposes
Accepter
Refuser
Voir les préférences
Enregistrer les préférences
Voir les préférences
{title}
{title}
{title}
Gérer le consentement
