DOCUMENT_ID: caw-1889-12-06
TITLE (as printed): The Christian Alliance and Missionary Weekly (Vol. 3, Friday, December 6, 1889)
DATE: 1889-12-06
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://archive.org/details/magazine-the-christian-alliance-and-missionary-weekly-1889-12-06
EDITION: Published weekly by The Christian Alliance Pub. Company, 692 Eighth Avenue, New York (public domain, pre-1927 US serial)
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (Internet Archive born-OCR djvu.txt, engine/settings not specified by IA); downloaded via curl from the item's "_djvu.txt" file (exact filename obtained from the item's /metadata/ API because it contains a non-ASCII dash character)
TOTAL PAGES: 8 (single weekly issue, pp. 289-296 per the volume's running pagination per the table of contents on the front page)
WORD COUNT: (see wc -w on this file)
NOTE ON OCR QUALITY: This issue's scan OCR is noticeably noisier than the Thompson 1920 biography (stray characters, misread words such as "profetable" for "profitable", "favar" for "favor", "mxodus" for "Exodus"). Quotations below are copied character-for-character as OCR'd, per Rule 7 (never correct or modernize).





fi = 
(eS 













4 





¢. 








Vou. 3. 





FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1889. 

















The @ Ghristian @ Alliance 


‘2. MISSIONARY WEEKLY, 








PUBLISHED Evgeny Fuipay. 


"THE CHRISTIAN ALLIANCE PUB. COMPANY. 
Ee 692 KIGHTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, 
Designed ag a cheap and popular channel for the Fellowship and Co-opera- 


ton of all who believe in the Gospel of Full Salvation and Long, 
Labor and Pray for the Evangelization of the World. 


“_..: LAlliance for Massachussets. 
' hot go have a closet convention “in the secret 


. .. The Boston Convention. 





:-We hope to meet many of the New England 
friends at Boston next week, December 10th tu 
_/12th at the Annual Convention of the Christian 
Let those who can- 


. place of the Most High,” and the same cloud will 
fall and cover us all with His enfolding and uniting 


Presence, 
* * 


* 





TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION: 








One Year, in Advance. «a» $1.50 | Single Copies........ 3 Cents each. 
Ministera of the Gospel.......... 1.00 | Quantities of one issue $2.00 per 1 
Tn Clubs of ten sent at one time. 10.00 Agents will receive a commission. 





Entered at the New York Post Office as Second-Class Matter 














: CONTENTS: 

PAGE 

lonary 289-250 
PIT—Eltjah, or God’s Patience with His People’s sarap 201-205 








xi Editorial. Ke 


Beenie ON, 





The Last Month. 





We are entering upon the last month of 1899, 
and the last days of the Decade. God help us to 
make the most of every moment, every oppor- 
tunity, and even every trial of this last remnant 
of another year, and may the dying year bring the 
glad consciousness of finished work and God's 
accomplished will. 















The Missionary Alliance. 


“The International Missionary Alliance is now 
incorporated and its officers elected. Kemittances 
should be sent to Mrs. E, M. Whittemore, Finan- 
cial Secretary, No, 723 Park ave., New York, or 
David Crear, Treasurer, 237 West 105th St. 

Rev. V. C. Hart, D.D., Corresponding Secretary, 
will communicate with any persons desiring in- 
formation regarding to work. The other officers 
are E. G. Selchow, Chairman of Board; 8. E. 
Whittemore, Vice-Chairman; A. B. Simpson, 

- General Secretary, and H. A. Waterbury, Record- 
ing Secretary. 
s ' 2. College Notes. 

The Training College is steadily growing in in- 
terest and in influence. There are at present forty 
students, and others are still coming, They con- 
stitute one of the best classes in the College's 
history of six years. 

The spirit of Jesus scems to prevade all the life 
of the Home, so that visitors coming in for a day 








E990. ate eee: 
woe, : of a 


Jv. tor even a brief time catch some of the overflow 
: +, ~"0f blessing. : 
2 A theological student visits us occasionally to 
warm at our altar fires. 
: The students show themselves to be studious 

“i, and eager for Scriptural knowledge. 

:. Some of the pupils of the Greek classes meet 
at 5.30 a.m., for conversational study. 

The members of Mr. Simpson’s class have 
§just completed an analytical study of Acts. There 
‘are many testimonies to the blessings received in 

“! athis study. 

*’ Recently ten of the students participated in a 
+ profetable debate. Subject: ‘“‘ Resolved that Paul 
“was more justifiable than Barnabas in his course 
4 yespecting Mark.” Both sides were well sustained 
by carefully prepared essays and speeches. The 
decision was in favar of the negative. 
Thanksgiving Day was one of special blessings. 
‘Brother Funk led the morning devotions, reading 
mxodus 40: 34-38, from which he drew some 
beautiful lessons of God going before as the cloud, 
and of our duty to keep our eyes upon Him and 
‘follow where He leads. 


















4 





“notes of praise from the family circle. One brother 


stage. Six months of sickness broke his will and 
Bs nes " +ybrought him into harmony with Jesus. Now he 
desires to carry the light of truth into Africa. 

A sister within the past year was turned from 





-an ambition to study law, to become a messenger , 





°° of the Gospel of Peacc- Another was led to. put 
off his glasses since coming to the College, and 
now sees by Him who ‘formed the eyes.” 
nae “* Many spoke of the clear leading of God in 
Jc 4 “bringing them to the College, and of the showers 
wut uw lof blessing received within its hallowing walls. 
‘3... The Thanksgiving sermon by Pastor Simpson 
=» .gave additional stimulous and cause for gratitude 
‘44 to our gracious Father for His love and care for 
the past year. 





Fa 





oh af Ea ae 


In the afternoon the students were invited to 
Berachah Orphanage where all were much blessed 
by the exercises of the children, and the address 


This suggested many 


"a year ago had determined te spend his life on the ' 


- LTH CHRISTIAN ALLIANCE 


of Brother Simpson, Brother Funk, Mrs. Schultz, 
Miss Dunn and others. Many helpful lessons 
were learned by the visitors from the beautiful 
life of trust exemplified in this ‘work. 

The evening praise service in the Tabernacle 
was continued by the stueents and some friends 
in the College parlors. Song, testimony and prayer 
were precious, and prolonged until12 o’clock, and 
all realized the quiet tenderness of the blessed 
Spirit. 

Brother and sister Schultz and Brother Funk are 
beloved by all, and for the wisely chosen heads 
for so large a household, 7 

In them we find true and safe counsellors and 
helpers in all that pertains to our highest good. 

Onr home and hearts have been the brighter by 
having with us for afew weeks Rev. 5. E. Mills © 
and wife and two sweet children. They will sail 
soon for Hayti where all hearts and prayers will 
follow them. COMMUNICATED, 


tt 


Miss Carrie Bates Writes from Berar, India. 





I work some through an interpreter, and am 
able to do a very little in Marathi, _ Last evening 
our Marathi meeting was a wonderful one, the 
spirit. was present in mighty power and several 
confessed their need of a Saviour and their desire 
to lead a Christian life. There are riumbers of 
people here under deep conviction, who have not 
as yet had the courage to forsake all for Christ. 
It would mean separation from their families and 
much persecution, but we believe the Lord will 
bles: and lead soulsto Himself. I hope this week 
to start a weekly meeting with the Christian 
women and girls, shall be obliged at first to speak 
largely through an interpreter, 

One of our native Christians was bitten by a 
snake two weeks since, and died in a few hours. 
Charms o!ten try to bring people to life, by boring 
holes in their heads and doing other horrible 
things. * * * Llove this people very very much, 

Heathen soil is yielding to faithful telling, the 
blessed seed has not been cast in vain. Words of 

romise fly across every ocean. People-of every 
and are touched by the healing waters which are 
flowing so freely from ten thousand churches. 
The very air is full ot the great message. The 
news of souls turning from sin to righteousness, 
from idols to Christ, prompt our hearts to greater 
efforts. 

“T love this people very very much,” is the 
message which comes from Africa, India, China 
and all the heathen world. Love is the beginning 
and end of all true effort for souls. May the Lord 
give unto His people that love which ‘“ Beareth all 
things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, 
endureth all things,” 











aed 


AND. MISSIONARY WEEKLY. 





“aie eo Pulpit} 


TN THE SCHOOL OF FAITH. 





: Elijah; or God’s Patience with His People’s 
Failures. (8. 

_._- “Elijah was a man subject to like passions with 

=>: us” is the last commentary of the New Testament 

on the greatest. of the Old Testament prophets. 

~ Instead of dwelling. on the strength of his char- 

.¢ acter, the Hcely Ghost would specially call our 

“attention to the infirmities of his faith. It would 

“-geem as if God would have us- remember, not so 

--much the greatness of human character, as its 

helplessness, and dwell rather on the greatness of 

His grace, magnified by our very frailties and 

_. failures, A life so illustrious as the Prophet of 

- Fire, is apt to become a snare to others, leading us 

: rather to look at the man than his Master, and over- 

~shadowing our commonplace lives by the grand- 

‘eur of his attainments. God has therefore allowed 

+ the most illustrious of His saints to fail in their 

= strongest qualities, that we may ‘‘cease from 

'man, whose breath is in his nostrils,” and learn 

the sufficiency of God from His transcendent 

“grace, aS sown most conspicuously in the weak- 

“nesses of His people. Perhaps more hearts have 

‘been helped by David’s recovery, Peter’s restora- 

tion and God’s patience with Elijah in his igno- 

., minious failure, than by all the glorious triumphs 

of these eminent servants of God. 











Let us review the story of Elijah therefore, not: 


“po much with reference to the sublime attainments 
‘of his faith as to the lessons which God would 
oisteach us through his weakness and the grace 
 “owhich restored him. 
I. HIS TRIUMPHANT FAITH. : 
. Elijah appears upon the scene of Hebrew history 
like a meteor flash. We have no record of his 
birth or childhood and no trace of the develop- 
‘ment of -the life of faith and the sacred fire of 
“prophetic inspiration. A child of the wilderness, 
_- dike John the Baptist, his character was moulded 
“in golitary commuion with nature and God, and 
"developed tuose stern and rugged qualities which 
“peculiarly fitted him for the ministry of judgment 
=. “40 which he was specially called. Like a lightning 
" stroke he falls across the path of the wicked Ahab 
“and with a formula of prophetic introduction 
“peculiar to himself, proclaims in the name of 
Jehovah, the long-forgotten God of the Israelites 








the beginning of a period of judgment which is 


‘soon to leave the land a blighted scene of desola- 


tion ; and then as suddenly he disappears, and for 


_the years that follow no trace is found of him, 
- although eagerly sought by the troubled king in 
“every corner of the land. Such an apparition so 


terribly, followed by the threatened judgment, 
was eonugh to stamp his. figure on the minds of 
all succeeding ages. Such a message and such a 
ministry required and exhibited the highest faith. 
It implied a confidence in God and a courageous 
disdain of man worthy of the loftiest examples 
of heroic faith. It stands, for sublimity, with 
Joshua’s command to the sun to stand still on 
Gibeon, and Hezekiah’s prayer that the dial should 
be arrested fifteen degrees in the advance of the 
heavens. The Apostle James implies that this 
bold act was the result of much earnest prayer 
and that he did not dare thus to stand before the 
king and the world and in the name of God hold 
back the laws of nature, without having first 
received the answering word from heaven. on 
which true faith must always rest and act. 

In this he is an example to us of the faith which 
stands in courageous boldness against surrounding 
evil, and claims, from heaven, perhaps not the 
judgments of a former dispensation, but the over- 
ruling power and providence of God for the glory 
of His name and the interests of His kingdom. 

But we next see Elijah’s faith in a new aspect, 
viz., in dependence on God for his own needs and 
the needs of those dependent upon him in those 
days of fiery trial. 

First, we find him at the little brook in the wil- 
derness, fed by ravens and. dependent on God for 
his daily bread, with a trust which has oft since 
encouraged the struggling and needy saints of 
God. Next, we see his faith exposed to a keener 


8 pressure, when he is required by the Lord to take 


the last handful of meal and drop of oil from the 
starving widow and her child. It is easier to suffer 
want ourselves than to see others suffer on our 
account and trust the Lord, not only for them but 
for ourselves, This God required from Elijah and 
he in turn required of the widow of Zarepthah that 
she should so learn the lesson of trust also that 
she could give her last crumb to the servant of 
God. Thus it was that the daily miracle began, 


_ and the little household at Zarepthah became ex- 


amples of what has so often since been proved in 
the homes of the poor, that ‘better is a little in 
the fear of the Lord, than great riches” without 
His blessing. 














# aOR 


"HE CHRISTIAN ALLIANCE 





“.~ Atlength one step of faith leads toa higher ; 

* -we never trust God for a little thing but He honors 

an ita “us by letting us receive a greater. And so the 

i s\."s faith of Elijah and the widow for their daily bread 

: ao ~ is at length honored in the most stupendous mira- 

-+ele of human history hitherto ; the raising of her 

“'Vifeless boy from the dead. Little do we dream 

“<s when we begin to trust God for little things that 

these are stepping-stones on which we are tread- 

s+. ." “Ing to higher glories and victories, not only in this 

- ° ""ife but in the ages to come, when the lessons of 

“0 2". faith we are learning to-day, shall be exemplified 

“on a grander theatre and a sublimer scale. This 

- glorious miracle, which was also given in answer 

“to prayer, might well prepare the mighty prophet 

: for the great test which was immediately to 
follow. 

*. And so his faith is next tried on the grandest 
“occasion and the most majestic exhibition of Old 
Testament history. Suddenly appearing before 
‘the king, he summons him and his people to meet 
him on Mount Carmel, for a decisive trial of the 
...) “great question between God and Baal, The sum- 

2’. mons is met by an extraordinary convocation, the 
‘o\ s people coming together in tens of thousands, The 
_,eight hundred prophets and priests of Baal and the 


















‘Elijah alone on the other. The test which he 


: “proclaims is simply and absolutely fair. Every 
an ‘advantage is given tothe other side ; the repre- 
sentatives of Baal are allowed to begin and the 
.:entire day is given to them for the purpose of 
‘proving their claims and obtaining some answer- 

*. ing token from their idols. At leagth when the 
aces - evening shades beginto gather and they have 
“= cn" “4gnominiously failed in every attempt and tried 
“oes Ss." $n vain, by cries and mutilations to bring some 
-answer from their gods, Elijah dismisses them 
with contempt and steps forward to claim the 
-answer of Jehovah. His appeal is a very simple 
“““one. The old altar of former years is prepared, the 
“bleeding sacrifice is laid upon it. To make the 
-test doubly difficult, a deep trench is dug on 
every side and the water is poured over the altar 

; --and trenches until they are flooded in every direc- 
vs s-tion, Then he lifts his eyes to heaven and ad- 

. . “dresses his simple prayer. Itis but a few sen- 
“Joi > fences; he calmly asks Jehovah to vindicate Him- 
. : ‘self and His prophet and make the people under- 
te “.-“gtand that He is God. There is no strain or 
, "pleading ; this has already been done. * His faith 
‘Is so confident that it needs but speak his request. 
His words have scarcely ceased, when suddenly 








'* king himself are all there on the one side, and © 


the gathering twilight is lighted up with the 
quivering flash of heavenly fire ; the altar is ablaze 
with the devouring flame; the hissing tongues of 
lambent fire lick up the water in the trenches, 
while a strange awe and stillness holds the breath 
of the amazed spectators; and then there comes 
the tumultuous re-action and a great shout rises 
up from every side, prolonged and repeated from 
rank to rank, and echoed back from Carmel’s 
rocks and caves again and again; a shout which 
seems almost to repeat Elijah’s own name, ‘‘Jah 
Eli,” ‘“‘ Jehovah, He is God.” But Elijah does not 
lose his self-command for a moment. The trial is 
over, the verdict is announced, the people have 
turned back to their God but the judgment is now 
to be revoked, and so, speaking again in the 
language of audacious faith, he proclaims to the 
king that the heavens are about to open, and the 


‘clouds to burst, and bids him prepare for his jour- 


ney, ‘‘for there is a sound of abundance of rain.” 

There was as yet no sound, save in the prophet’s 
ear, and the only sound that he had heard was 
the sound of the people’s shout and the anticipa- 
tions of his own faith. But faith always speaks its 
message before sense confirms it. And so Elijah 
hastens to his watch-tower to press upon Jehovah 
the claim which he has already announced and to 
wait for the first signal. There, bowed down 
before God. with his face between his knees in the 
attitude of a travailing mother, he agonizes in the 
prayer of the Spirit. It is working out in him his 
own great purpose, itis the effectual, energizing 
prayer, the faith which knows in his own inmost 
being that God is working in the realm of His 
providence. So real does it appear to him, that 
he feels that there must be some cloud upon the 
sky and he sends his servant again and again to 
report; but there is none. But the ear of faith 
cannot be deceived, the faith of God cannot be a 
lie; something must give way when the Holy 
Ghost thus prays. And so he waits and prays, not 
in the agony of doubt, but in the triumphant 
energy of power, and at last, the seventh time, 
when the process of faith is accomplished the 
message comes, ‘There is a cloud like a man’s 
hand upon the sky.” Was it a fitting emblem of 
the hand of Elijah which was moving the heavens, 
or was it the hand of Jesus which his hand had 
grasped? It is enough at least, and springing to 
his feet he hastens back to the king and bids him 
at once depart for his palace; while girding up his 
loins he dashes on before like a victorious captain 
leading the triumphal march of a nation, while 


















‘AND MISSIONARY WEEKLY. Poe 





"293. . 





“the heavens are black with clouds and the floods 


- of rain would have even filled the people with 


-alarm, had they not been too full of gladness and 


OS “gratitude to be apalled, even by the wildest fury 
of the tempest. 


Up to the gates of Jezreel the enthusiastic 


prophet sped. There he halted while Ahab hasted 
“cin, His victory was complete, his faith was vin- 
dicated ; what need that he should go further? 
"+ Ah, was not this the moment of danger? 
we help regretting that he did not pass through 

“those gates and face that defiant queen who alone 
-' _yemained unconquered, but whose imperious will 


Can 


-§was the real barrier of adamant, against which 


<x, the whole battle was directed? 
“; one unfinished battle, the one of fatal omission? 
‘Was there perhaps, for the first time, one thought 
“of timidity, one cowardly impulse, one procras. 
«, tinating dream, that the rest could be finished on 
. the morrow? At least we know, that ere the 
“..“morrow’s sun had risen, the desperate spirit of the 
- queen had met the tide of rebellion with victorious. 

_ defiance, and even Elijah himself, was fleeing back 


Was not this the 


like a wave from the adamantine shore, and all 


“the work of his life apparently undone. 
» there is-no hour so full of. peril as the hour of 
“triumph, and wisely has some one sung, 


Truly 


“If conqueror of tomorrow’s fight, beware ; 
- If conquered, for tomorrow’s fight prepare.” 
IL ELIJAH’S FAILURE, 
tt was as sudden and complete as his triumph 
had been bold and startling. There was an entire 
re-action, and the man of flint and fire was broken 
as a potter’s vessel and feeble as a fretting child. 


-:.One fierce, defiant word from Jezebel, gleaming 
' like the savage lightning, and threatening with a 
:.doom as swift and terrible as her murdered 


prophets before another sun had set, hurled him in 


a moment from the pinnacle of triumph to the 


~.depths of agonising terror, and ‘‘he arose and went 


for his life’) One thought alone took possession 


’ of the paralyzed prophet, to flee and save himself. 


And, yet, when he gets beyond her reach and sinks 


“.exhasted in the desert, with a strange inconsis- 


. he may die. 


tency of weakness and fear, he actually asks that 
If this was what he wanted. he had 
an excellent chance to do it nobly in Samaria. 


. What sad work the devil can make of poor hum- 


anity when God lets us go for an instant! After 
poor Elijah, no heart need ever feel discouraged. 
Why did he fall? Was it because he did not go 
far enough and finish his work with Jezebel’s de- 
struction too? Perhaps so, and if so, itis another 


solemn lesson of the peril of the half finished work of 
faith and obedience which stops within a fraction 
of the fulness of God’s will. Or was it bevause he 
depended too much on the effect of God’s judg- 
ment and was disappointed to find that after’ all 
the spirit of human pride and wickedness was 
still unchanged? Or was it more than all this, be- 
cause Elijah had allowed his own self-conscious- 
ness to assume too high a place, and like Simon 
Peter, had to fall in order to experience the death 
of self. Was Elijah a little in his own way, as 
Jonah afterward was in the way of another of 
the prophets of the Lord? It must have been 
so. That bitter cry, “‘Iam no better than my 
fathers,” lets out the secret. He seems astonished 
to find his own weakness. He had never been ‘‘any 
better than his fathers” even in the height of his 
triumph, and it was only the grace of God in him 
that accomplished what it did. But somehow, he 
must have become absorbed in his own greatness 
and got in God’s way so much that he had to be 
humilated and slain, and then with the deeper 
lesson of self-crucifixion, sent back to finish his 
work. Is not this the secret of almost all our fail- 
ures and has not God decreed that he that trusteth 
in man shall ever fall until he learn to lean, not 
upon Elijah, but upon Elijah’s God, And so we 
are led to 
III, HIS RESTORATION, 


: First, notice the gentleness of God in picking 
up and setting on his feet once more His broken 
child. He saw that part of his desperate collapse 
was due to physical causes; his body and brain 
had been under a tremendous strain for days and 
even years, and looking away for a moment from 
God the pressure had become too great. And so 
the first thing that God doesis to rest him and © 
nurse him like a sick and weary child; He puts 
him to sleep under the juniper tree and then gently 
wakes him and feeds his weary body. Then He 
bids him rise again and waking him once more, 
makes him eat again of the heavenly meal before 
he sets out on his journey across the desert. 

How kindly God cares for our bodies as well as 
our spirits and how often He says to His fretted 
children, ‘‘Come ye apart and rest awhile,” 
and gently strengthens them and refreshes them 
before sending them forth to bear the heavy bur- 
dens of life. He who was moved with compassion 
for the hungry multitudes and who Himself suf- 
fered hunger and was sorely tempted by the devil, 
still knows the frailty of our frame and ministers 
to our bodies as well as to our spirits. 








ne 




































gk EE OBRISTIAN ALLIANCE 





Next we notice how God takes His child apar 
“with Himself to the desert for a while and there 
‘talks with him and teaches him the lessons which 


- he needs to learn. So. often He calls us aside 


‘from ‘our work fora season and bids us be still and 
‘learn ere we go forth again to minister. Especi- 


ally is this so when there has been some serious 


break, some sudden failure and some radical de- 


-.- fect in our work, There is no time lost in such 


"waiting hours. Fleeing from his enemies the an- 
cient knight found that his horse needed to be re- 
. shod. Prudence seemed to urge him on without 
‘delay, but higher wisdom taught him to halt a few 
‘minutes at the blacksmith’s forge by the way to 


"Mave the shoe replaced, and although he heard the 


feet of his pursuers galloping hard behind, yet he 
- ‘-waited those minutes until his charger was refitted 
for his flight, and then, leaping into his saddle just 
as they appeared a hundred yards away, he dashed 
"away from them with the fleetness of the wind, 
and knew that his halting had hastened his escape. 


"So often God bids us tarry ere we go, and fully re- 


‘cover ourselves for the next great stage of the 


Be journey and work. 


But‘again, God speaks to His servant and sets 
him thinking and examining his own heart and 
life... ‘‘ What doest thou here, Elijah?” God’s 
best way of teaching us is to ask us questions and 
‘God is asking many of us “‘ what decet thou here 
Elijah was not very ready to listen to the question 


“> vend was too quick to answer in the words of hasty 


‘vindication, as we so often are. Let us pause and 
think whether we are where God wants us fully, 
especially if there bein our life some great and 
“serious failure. If our faith and courage have 
-.given way, and we have gone back in any way 


i _ from our trust, let us not be too ready to blame 


“=:our enemies or reflect upon our God and vindicate 
owyselves, but see if there is not something lack- 
ing with us and some lesson God tenderly waits 
to teach us. 
But next, we notice, very distinctly, the lesson 
‘which God insisted on having His prophet learn. 
“This great self-conscious “I” must be slain and 
: Elijah must learn that he is by no means the only 
faithful follower of Jehovah in Israel and not at 
-all indispensable to the great work which he sup- 
poses has all been resting on his shoulders ; and so 
God tells him that there are seven thousand in 
Israel who have not bowed the knee to the image 
of Baal orin any way compromised their testimony 
and dishonored their God, and that He has abund- 
ant instrurhents besides him through whom he can 





work ; and so he concludes by sending him to call 
three of these instruments to finish the work 
which he had begun and left so sadly unfinished. 
One of these is Hazael, the King of Syria, a for- 
eign soldier whom God can use at his pleasure to 
fulfill his purposes and punish his wicked people. 
Another is Jehu, an unknown captain in the army 
of Ahab, who is to succeed him as king in a little 
while. ‘And a third is a humble ploughman in the 
fields of Samaria, who is to be Elijah’s servant and 
successor and in his life and quiet ministry, to ac- 
complish much more in the destruction of idolatry 
and the establishing of God’s kingdom than even 
Elijah himself. All this must have humbled him 


- in the dust and made him feel how easy it was for 


God to take him at his word and let him die, if 
need be, and have others arise at God’s bidding’ 
and accomplish His unfailing purposes. How 
infinite are God’s resources, and how insignificant 
any one of His instrumentalities in itself! 
And so God cannot use us much until we learn 
that if He does use us at all, it is not because of 
our importance, but His great condescension in | 


- permitting us tobe workers together with Him. 


No man is of much account in God's service until he 
learns not to place much value on himself. It wasan 
awful stripping of the greatest of the prophets but ’ 
is was indispensable for him to learn and us to be 
taught by him this great lesson. His work did not 
cease ; he went forth from Horeb to many years 
of honored service and passed at length with un- 
paralleled honor and glory to his great reward ; but 
his work henceforth was more quiet and noiseless 
and he himself was out of sight. So that even his 
translation to heaven, with all its majestic sur- 
roundings was almost entirely withdrawn from 
the gaze of man and would have been, even from 
Elisha’s, had not the latter insisted upon witness- 
ing it. Henceforth Elijah’s death was over, and 
his fneral past, and there only awaited his trans- 
lation. It was worth all the humiliation of the 
desert to learn this lesson. 

But again, God taught him in his restoration 
the insufficiency of mere judgment and all the in- 
fluences of law and terror to change and purify 
the human heart and the need of thas gentler dis- 
pensation of Divine grace and spiritual power 
which was to fellow his own fiery ministry, in the 
spirit and work of Elisha, and which was, at a 
later period. to be introduced in all its fulness by 
the Lord Jesus Christ, of whom Elisha was to be 
aspecial type. Andso God takes him through a 
sort of panorama in the cave of. Horeb which 


























D MISSIONARY WEEKLY. ee ao ee oo 


: was designed to symbolize this special truth. 
.\ Ail the terrific forces of nature pass before him, 
~. the symbols of his own fiery spirit and God’s most 
“awfuljudgments. The earthquake first shakes the 
“solid ground and heaves the mountains from their 
bases, yawning gulfs burst open at his feet and 
avalanches of rocks are hurled into the chasm be- 
low, while the mountain and the desert heave like 
-* the swelling sea and the sickening roar of the 
“..awful convulsion of nature comes from the depths 


ze of the earth and the caves of the mountains. Un-’ 


_.. moved, and perhaps defiant, he feels that the Lord 
:’ is not in the earthquake. Then after a pause of 
fearful stillness such as precedes the outburst of 
the hurricane, the whirlwind follows. The heavens 
grow black as midnight, the fiery lightnings 
Cleave the inky clouds and the thunders rise above 
“+ the earthquakes’ roar; like a giant arm, the tem- 

‘pest strikes the forests and sweeps them as the 


.. Scythe of the mower; the very rocks are torn from . 
-, their lofty bases and hurled into the abysses; the 


'° desert sand is caught up in great clouds to meet 
‘the denser masses of the sky, the giant hand of 


': the storm gathers in its fists the mingled column 


, of cloud and sand and rocks and trees, and hurls 
evit along as projectiles from the cannon’s mouth; 
“sweeping from its track everything that resists, 
—leaving a path of wreck and desolation; while the 
mingled soar and shriek of the warring elements 
and the terrified creatures of the earth and air 
-. blend in an indescribable chorus of terror and 
-«.sublimity. The prophet himself has to cling to 
=: the rock for security or perhaps throw himself up- 


‘Son the ground to escape being swept away. But 


“his spirit is still unmoved and the Lord is not in 
“the whirlwind. 

The phenomenon that follows is not particularly 
described farther than it is called the fire, but we 
know it must have been something that would 
worthily cap the climax, and appear yet 

mightier and more terrific than either the earth- 


quake or the whirlwind. Perhaps it was an awful . 


“display of electric wonders, a play of lightning 
‘and thunder suchas sometimes follows the first fury 
“of the wind and lasts often for hours, in which 
the whole heaven seems to be one mass of flame 
--and the earth sends up to meet it a ceaseless fire of 
electric artillery, until the whole air seemed to 


melt with fervent heat and the thunder bolts of, 


heaven fall like the fire of innumerable batteri.s. 
An eastern sky can produce a thunder storm that 
might well be called a rain of fire. Orit may have 
been a display, more supernatural, in which the 


Ong 
ww 





very blaze of the same fiery tonges that had fallen © 
on the sacrifice on Carmel, or on the rebellious coma. 
pany of Dathan and Abiram, or the cities of Sodom _ 
and Gomorrah, or afterwards in the ministry of ~ 
Elijah himself upon the soldiers who came totake . 
him captive. At least we may be sure it was a”. — 
display of surpassing magnificence and awful | 
terror. It was a peculiar manifestation of the © 
angry judgment of Jehovah which shall at last . 
destroy the wicked. But even this Elijah felt, per- — 
haps to his own astonishment, had no effect on his © 
spirit. In the heat of the desperate bitterness of 
his soul the Divine judgment could not movehim, © 
and he found, it may be for the first time, that ‘ 
the human heart can look upon the very terrors 
of Jehovah’s judgment and yet remain as hard as 
ever. This is the most awful fact in human ex- 
perience, that the judgments of God do not change | 
men’s hearts. The terrors of Sinai did not save 
Israel from their carnival of idolatry before the ’ 
month was past. The repeated judgments of God 
upon His ancient people did not hold them back 
from the grossest idolatry. The unparalelled hor- 
rors to which the Hebrew race have been exposed 
for eighteen centuries, have not made them Chris- 
tians. Nor will the very punishment of the Judg- 
ment Day and the eiernaldonnents of an everlast- 
ing hell; but the lips of sinners will curse backagain. | 
in answer to their judgments and the ages of eter-.: 
nity will doubtless increase the wickedness and . 
malignity of the lost. All this begins to dawn up- 
on Elijah as he feels his own spirit unmoved by ‘ 
the manifestations that have passed by. we ath 

And now the time has come for God to reveal te.; 
him the true secret of power. The elements 
are hushed, an awful stillness falls upon the scene, 
and out of the midst of it comes a voice faint as a 
whisper of the gentlest breeze, or probably a voice ‘ 
which falls perhaps on his.own ear one of those 
deep strange instincts of unutterable quietness. 
and yet deepest tenderness ; a thrill which reaches 
his inmost being, woos his spirit into adoration 
and brings to his whole consciousness a sense of | 
God and His ineffable presence and glory; a some- 
thing which penetrates every fibre of his being, - 
which melts his heart into tenderness and his 
spirit into submission, until he gathers his mantle 
around him and goes into his cave to hear the.. 
voice which alone can satisfy and fill his being. 

This is the power which alone can affect the 
hearts of men, God Himself. Elijah feels it in 
his inmost being and now he knows how little 
worth are all his denunciations and strokes of 
punishment, without the spirit of the Holy One to 
move upon the hearts of men. 

And so he is prepared in a measure for the an- 
nouncements which are immediately to follow, 
bidding him to appoint two men as the messengers 
of judgment, but especially the third who is to be 



































gg 0 ED CHRISTIAN ALLIANCE 





_ the prophet of grace, whose very name signifies 
» <xthe salvation of God, and who is the type of Jesus 
Christ and His ministry of love. Elijah was a 


-““*"" John the Baptist; Elisha, the good Physician and 
«< the gentle Teacher of Galilee. Elijah was the axe 


and the flame, which cleared the forest; Elisha, 


“the Sower and the gentle rain and sunshine that 


“" nurtured the seed, Elijah was the winter frost 
- “>. that withered the false growth of centuries, gut 
-. “Elisha, the spring time of a better age, with ‘its 


-plogsoms and fruits of life and righteousness. 


But even Elisha was but a type and shadow of 


". “a greater than he, who has come to baptize with 


“the Holy Ghost and to enable poor, weak, lost 
“men, in His strength, to fulfill the righteousness 


«which the law could show, but could not give. 


Thank God, we live in that better age and have 


-' thatheavenly voice enshrined, through the indwell- 


“ing Comforter,in thesanctuary of our hearts! Letus 


“"<not forget Elijah’s lesson, both in the struggle 


“with our own spirits and the principles of our 
. work for the salvation of men and the elevation 
~ -of society. This is the vital principle of Christian- 
"ity, which is a work of grace and not of judgment, 

; of. the Divine Spirit and of God Himself, and not 


“the struggles and efforts of human nature. 


The last lesson taught Elijah in his recovery 
-and taught also to all future ages, is the all-suffi- 
- ciency of God and the wretched insufficiency of 
“=the best of men. Elijah’s failure had magnified 

<the grace of Elijah’s God, while it had minified 
“ Bhijah himself. Henceforth men could realize 
hat the weakest and most helpless of instruments 
could accomplish the mightiest purposes through 
“+ “the grace which is as free to the feeblest saint as 

. to the mightiest prophet. This is especially the 
“lesson that we need tolearn, The God of Elijah is 
- our God, and the grace which he received is 

offered freely to every one of us in the measure of 
‘our need and our trust. There is nothing that 
‘God has ever done for any ransomed saint, which 





. “He is not willing to do for any other who will 


trust Him and glorify Him. Wlijah has passed 
away, but Elijah’s God remains. Elijah’s faith, 


‘+. ‘even, for a season vanished, but Elijah’s God 


changed not. Oh, how blessed to know that when 


Our teachers and friends are withdrawn, and even 


when our own faith fails us, there is One who 

‘changes not, and whose faithfulness survives the 

_. frailties of our nature and holds us in everlasting 

~- arms. 

‘. Let us go forth with the watchword of Elisha, 
when his master had disappeared from his view, 
but his master's God_ still remained. crying, 
‘« Where is the Lord God of Elijah?” and we shall 

~ find that, for all our need and work. Jesus Christ 

‘is ‘the same yesterday, to-day and forever.” 


te rane 





Friday Meeting—-New York. 

The address was founded on the 5th chapter of 
1st Peter, from the 6th to the 10th verses. Four 
hands werespoken of in connection with these 





verses. The first was the hand that is on us, that 
is God’s hand. There are many pressures that 
He permits to come upon us that good may come 
of them. This will always follow if they are yield- 
ed to with meekly bowed head. When we can 
say ‘‘Thy will be done” to every thing, and are 
willing for all that God sends, we can have faith. 
Love comes before faith. The reason we do not 
get the blessing we are longing for is often because 
we are not ready for it. We would get exalted 
over it and spoiled. The sweetest joy in Christian 
life is to have a chastened spirit, and God is taking 
the best way to give it tous. The second hand is 
the one that is under us and holds us up, then we 
can cast all our care upon Him. There is a beau- 


tiful distinction in the tense of the two verbs here. . 


The first is the Greek, Aorist, meaning that ata 
certain fixed time we did cast our care, then we 
have no business to be carrying any now. The 
next is the progressive present. He is always 
caring for us. Once for all we cast our care. He 
is caring all the time. Sometimes when we ask 
Him to carry our burdens He refuses, for they are 
not His burdens, and we should not even pray 


over them. They are the devil’s burdens and- 


should be cast off. The third band is the devil's 
band. We must not expect God to bind Satan’s 
power. We must be sober, or as the ancient 
fathers expressed it, have ever a recollected spirit. 


Don’t take every thing by appearances. Don’t . 
t 


pray over everything you feel like praying about. 
Be sure the Lord is bidding you to pray and not 
the devil. Heis after your faith. Stand off and 
don’t parley with him. The fourth hand is the 


hand of the Master and Teacher, He will make us - 


perfect, mature, and complete in character. He 
exercises us with trials so as to make us strong. 
The power of willis the power of spiritual life. 
Some wills are decided, buf not full of force. 
There is alanguidness about them that takes away 
their power, God wants to give us force, so that 
when we pray the devil will feel it in every nerve, 
He would settle us also in our faith, make it deep 
as wellas broad. Like the pine tree whose tap 
root extends down as far as its branches shoot 
upward, we should get grounded away down in 
the centre of grace, so there will be no danger of 
a serious tumble. ‘ 

The testimony meeting partook largely of the 
nature of the Thanksgiving season, and many 
notes of praise were given for the goodness of 
God during the year. <A lady testified to healing 
froma trouble with her eyes,and for the immediate 
healing of her husband from a difficulty which 
threatened to be serious. Another lady testificd 
to having been cured of a cough two years ago, 
but it had returned this fall. After prayer how- 


_, ever, it had again disappeared. A sister spoke of 


having discovered an unlovely trait in her char- 
acter which discouraged her fora time till the 
Lord said to her, ‘‘Thanks be unto God which 
giveth us the victory.” Then she saw her victory 
was not to be attained unto, but received as a gift, 
and she took it and had been resting quietly in it. 


a ree tS 























OAM, 
eee 





— HH 


SSASANSI 





at tthe hWe 
m 


we 


RRR ERE at 








fa 





|< CONFUCIANISM. 


fe BY V. ©. HART, D. D. 





“<CHAPTER IX, 


~ The Liturgy. 


, While there are a great number of prostrations 
“and mute actions connected with the rendering of 
the regular liturgical service, the music is consid- 
ered a chief attraction. However low the present 
musical attainments of the Chinese may be, they 
have great faith in these peculiar instruments 
‘which represent every resonant sound known to 


- : ‘them, and look back with much pride to those days 


when men’s hearts were softened, and the most 
ferocious beasts were tamed by the strains ex- 
tracted from just such clumsy instruments, as are 
pointed out to me upon the Moon terrace. 





_ AND MISSIONARY WEEKLY. 


A GROUP OF PANTOMIMERS. 


“! 3.\professional sits down to either, the most delicate 

.<tones are produced. There are men who devote 

all their time and talents to the rendering of a few 
-“ plaintive pieces upon them. 


~, existence of the son of Antiope, and of the famous 
















The lutes and lyres are immense, and when a 


One has said that, ‘‘eight centuries before the 


singer of Thrase, it is recorded that the inimitable 
Kwei said to the Emperor Chun.” “when I touch 
the stones, which compose my King, and make 
them send forth a sound, the animals range them- 
selves around me and leap for joy.” 

The ancient music, according to Chinese writers 
of every age, ‘Could call down spirits from the 
ethereal regions ; raise up the manes of desperate 
beings ; inspire men with the love of virtue, and 
lead them to the practise of their duty.” There 
are anumber of praise songs which have been 
used at different times to extol the virtues of Con- 


ER atta Aan 





—thy precepts are everywhere the standard, 








“fucius which I must omit.: The two which are 
-given represent the attitude of the worshippers to 
“the great-teacher, and show very conclvsively that 

from the Emperor down there is the most servile 

“obedience to their sage. 

. We shall see that the worshippers have perfect 
faith in the virtue of their musical service, even 
to the extent of bringing the spirit of Confucius 
-down tothe feast prepared for him. Ihave no 
adoubt that the scholars of China, firmly believe 
“that in some mysterious manner he is really pres- 
‘ent during the time of worship. 

' The following song which is sometimes used, 

was accepted by a special decree in 1647. It was 
‘*'no doubt in use many centuries before that date, 
“> put not in the Canon by Imperial Mandate. 

It consists of six verses of thirty-two characters 
uae The first verse is called Hsien, and is acted 
.and chanted by the whole orchestra, after the 
‘spirit of Confucius has been invoked by the offici- 

ating scholar. 














HSIEN. 


O how great was the perfect sage ! 
Exalted were his virtues, merits vast. 

Thou the diffuser of literature and reformer of iorakse 
‘To thee all kings shall come and do reverence. 


_ And they do illume this Imperial palace. 
oo" | Here are sacrificial vessels of purest kind, 
oo, And the awe-inspiring drum and bell. 


LING, 


“4Snlightener of the Emperor and his people, 
--=. The pattern handed down from former sages, 
“2°. Exalted mountain, O how lofty! 
How ean we attain such heights? 
> The ceremonies are perfect and music harmonious, 
The sacrificial vessels are perfectly pure. 
_ » And are in accord with antiquity’s pattern, 
© Even after usage the thrice-poured wine. 


ANG. 


: O how perfect the holy teacher ! 
-.. 6Of ilnstrious endowments, gifts of Heaven. 
ae ra , & wooden-tongued bell for all ages, 
“. j,And perfect example to officials. ae 
ear is the wine and of purest kind, 
‘Took upon the holders of the feathery plumes. 
: a great peace endure forever, 
/tAnd superior men be raised to high stations. 
ofti 








KING, 
few que 
He was a moral king, O how great! ¥ 
* “The true course of all things by him was declared. 
“Upward we gaze, and lo, he is before us, 
His spirit is present in this place. 


—rom the ancient classics. 





The wine is poured into the golden jars, 
It is both clear and sweet. 

- Now we the offering make, the sacrifice is souiplete, 
Yet how dare we rejoice in the service done. 


HSIEN. 


: Or precious fountain, deep and limpid Boot: 
:-Oh! exalted one, how very dreadful. = 
\ Pleased thou art with our offerings sage of trensfornt: 

ing doctrines, 
In like manner are the ten Wise Ones. 
Beat now the golden drums and resound the belle, 

. Declare the feast brought to an end. 

: The skein of service is now complete, 
: To thee thou great Exemplar of Yao and Shun. 


HSIEN, 


-How resplendent is this palace of learning, 
"Phe whole world comes to render thee homage. 
“> Thou fashioner and guide of elder sons, 
: 1(Smperor) am a person of no importance. 
... But consider thou my many noble scholars, 
Who serve with such great merit. 
Let my reign be one of great peace, : 
‘Tributes once in three years and vassals once in five 
may come. 


The song used in every Confucian temple 


throughout China is nearly the same as the above . 


in construction, but differs widely in its quotations 
It is performed in 
Nanking twice each year—spring and fall—by an 
orchestra of thirty-six singers, thirty-six musicians, 


- ‘and thirty-six harlequins or actors. 


While the great sacrifice goes on, this remark- 


: “-able song, consisting of one hundred and ninety- 
“two characters, is played, sung, and acted at 


intervals. China’s classic lore has surrendered 


“Sits choicest gems to enrich this song, and her 
» musical talent has exhausted its domain to meet 
“the requirements of the occasion. Praise songs 
--existed more than three thousand years ago, and 
“were performed with instrumental music upon 

‘gtate occasions. Confucius said, 
"from Wei to Lu and the music was reformed, and 
the imperial panegyrics were rectified, so that 
- each had its proper place.” 


“T returned 


The moral influence of music was held in high 
estimate by the ancients, its educational effects 
were considered to be very great. The Master told 


his disciples that a man destitute of philanthropic 


feelings had nothing to do with music. He had 
great reverence for the simple strains of antiquity. 
Simplicity was his watchword. 

“The men of ancient times in matters of eti- 
quette and music were plain, while at the present 


























‘day in music and ettiquette they are fine gentle- 
‘men ; I follow the ancients in such things.” 

The admiring sons of the sage have followed his 
“instructions and have kept to the good old ortho- 
' dox ways. Instruments of same pattern as were 

thrummed in China when the early shepherds of 
_ Chaldea played to their flocks, are found in Con- 
 fuciantemples, The samestrains which delighted 
.. the philosopher when on earth, are now used to 
“ enchant his spirit from above. While he indulges 
mortals for a brief moment with his presence at 
chis feast, strains of music fill his temple, then his 
“ soul is dismissed to the unknowable Heaven, 
‘wafted by music, Heaven’s great gift to man. 
At Nanking we have a most beautiful and valu. 
able collection of instruments. 
The marshal’s baton is of satin figured with 
costly velvet. There are fifteen kinds of instru- 
- ments, three bells, one very large, two drums, the 
“ magnificent Au crowned with a phoenix. There 
are immense lutes and lyres, of numberless strings. 
















curious. Besides there are cymbals, and two pe- 
“-culiar instruments to start and stop the orchestra, 
The rendering of so much music, and the acting 

“of the 192 characters by the dancers, who hold 
“‘phéasant feathers, and small reeds with six orfices 
each, is without doubt, about as complex a service 
,as the human mind is able to execute. 


In the execution of the following song 384 differ- 


--ent positions are taken by the dancers or harle- 
‘quins, while one character is sung two positions 
- are assumed. Whose imagination but that of a 
_:Chinaman’s could invent such a number of mute 
~ actions? 





“PRAISE SONG. 


CAAO. 


0! ! how great was Confucius, 
 Preeminent in wisdom and first in nowledue: 
"With Heaven and Earth he forms a trinity, 
..He is the teacher of all mankind. 
2 He was the fulfilment of a lucky omen, a unicorn to 
: take away evil, 
Let the golden chords in harmony resound, 
+) «And sun and moon take up the strains, 
- For he is pure as Heaver and Earth. 


SIEN, 


.. We forever cherish his illustrious merits, 

Which are like to symphonies of gems and gold. 
* Among mortals never was one like him born, 

.O!T how wonderful the Great Perfection. 
* "Phe ancient chargers and sacrificial tables are here, 
For spring and autumn feasts. 
“Here is purest wine already poured out, 
“And its fragrance now.ascends, 











There are six wind instruments, some of them very. 


AND MISSIONARY WEEKLY. 





vie 


“: To him the nurturer of all our colleges, 


He then refers to the boundaries of.the true prom- 








..CHTH, 
















“The rites are now 7 partobiiie’ without a ioult, 

' And we again ascend to the hall and offer the saorifie, 

“Drums and bells in harmony sound, 

~ Faultless are the wine jars and vessels of clay. 

O how dreadful, yet how condescending, 

Praise to his eminence and accomplishments, — iar 
“His ceremonies were transforming and his music dil 

: corrupt, 

. And in them are manifest his high merit. 





: BS iad 8U. 
Of old, yea in ancient days, 

Our forefathers gave us the example. 
‘Skin caps and sacrificial viands, 
‘How harmonious was their music. : 
: ‘Only as Heaven could instruct the people, 
: Just so in time opportune was given the sage. : 
“The social relations to set in order, 
“Even to this time he is a resounding bell. 


YI 


“The ancient wise men had the saying, iC TEER 


“Blessed are those who sacrifice after the pattern, 
“His college halls are in all places, 
“Who shall dare to be irreverent. ‘ &3 
“The ceremonies are finished, we proclaim and remove 
: the sacrifices, 
*,Be not careless defile them not. 
‘Our music is the gift of Heaven, ae : 
_ And our pulse is from the plain of Chang ¥ Vinsis 







TEH, 





‘He is like the mountains Fu and Yi so lotty, AL 
“Like the majestic rivers Chu and 8z, 
: Toward him we aim and would reach his virtues, 
‘ And would have his illimitable ever flowing and en- 
riching graces. 
‘s Ob ! how refulgent are the offerings, 
‘How very very bright. 
To him the transformer of mankind, 











. The Outlook for Palestine. 





Dr. H. P. Mendes, the famous rabbi, in the 
Jewish Chronicle magnifies the coming restoration 
of the Jews to their own land as a prophetic 
certainty. He sets forth the desirableness of ‘the 
land as a possession, its ancient fertility, 
and its capacity for sustaining a large population. 





ised land as much broader than Palestine, being 
400 miles long and 1,100 broad. See Joshuai: 4 

Then he proceeds to show the importance of 
such a possession, and in substance says: 








_ enter. 
‘<cyvith 826,000,000, the given population for Asia, 

_vysiimagine South America with 307,400,000, the given 
. “population of Europe. Add the millions of Africa, 


"promised land.” 





=, enough to return to Palestine. 
“. “ahem nearer. 

“even centuries. 

‘decades and not centuries are to pass away before 


cpa doen ae 


9900 2°2~*~*~<CS*~S:S:S I  OBIRISTIAN ALLIANCE 


NN eS iN a a Re es 


_ First, look atits geographical position as a trade 
Imagine Canada and the United States 


estimated at 206,000,000. Imagine next Central 


S “America with the milder climate of Palestine, and 
the supply and demand between North and South 


America, with all these. millions of people with 
wants to be supplied, passing through, as must be 


’’;“swhen North and South America are connected by 
vail! Would not Central America offer. brilliant 


promises for business purposes? 


= Just so Palestine. Railroad communication with 


Africa, Asia and Europe must pass though this 
The Euphrates Valley road, 
connecting the European system of railways with 


., india and the further East, will also roll trade 


into the confines of our land. History will only 
repeat itself. For in the days of Solomon, as 
Dean Milman points out, the five great caravan 


-»< and trading lines of the ancient world converged 


in Palestine, and hence the national prosperity 


> ‘po great that ‘‘silver was in Jerusalem as stones, 
and cedars as the sycamore trees that are in the 
’..cvale, for abundance.” 


A common idea is that the Restoration means 


... that all Hebrews must go back to Palestine. Dr. 
“Mendes thinks all will not return, but some will 
“stay. and engage in prosperous business among 

co. gentle nations. 
“the Gentiles, and their offspring among the 
.-- people ; all that see them shall acknowledge them, 
“that they are the seed which the Lord hath blessed.” 
“Isa. lxi, 9. 


“* eity and two of a family, and I will bring you to 


** And their seed shall be among 


Or again, ‘‘I will take you one of a 


Zion.” Jer. iii: 14. However, as soon as business 
possibilities are visible, the Hebrews will be ready 
Every day brings 
Long years may pass first, perhaps 

At this moment, he thinks, only 


this Restoration becomes a fact. The Eastern 
question is one of absorbing interest. National 
common sense has already suggested that the 


“. only way to calm the jealousy of the great powers 


as to Syria, which all of them want, is to make it 
a neutral State ; then give it in charge of the Jews, 


: who are peaceful and able to aoreee business 


possibilities. 
But, Dr. Mendes adds, ‘“‘ Palestine is not desired 
by us simply as a national home, but on account 





of what itinvolves. First, the establishment of 
a respected court of arbitration for the settlement of 
international and such like disputes, thus causing 
war to cease, Isa. ii: 4. Second, an evidencing of 
areligionizing religion, a religion which shall not 
be a conventionality, so that no more shall we see 
how these Christians do not love one another, 
or how orthodox Jews are often most unorthodox, 
and reformed Jews sadly need reforming. For 
the expectation of a better moral tone in the 
world see Isa. xi:10 or Jer. xxxi: 34. 

“In short to sum up what we mean by our 
restoration to Palestine, we mean the institution 
of universal peace and universal brotherhood, and, 
of course, universal happiness. This will be not 
simply a consolation for the Jews, or the consola- 
tion of Zion, so long bereaved of her children ; 
but the consolation of the world after all the 
snobbing and shrieking which history’s page 
records of each and every nation.” 

Missionary Review. 








“Amusement in the Churches. 





~Rev. Dr. Archibald C. Brown of London has 
written a timely protest against the ‘ Devil's Mis- 
sion of Amusement in the churches,” a protest 
véry much needed in these days of restlessness 
and self-indulgence, when there seems to be an 
insatiate desire for entertainment manifested by 
the large majority of professing Christians, and 
when this element enters so largely into its work 
for the unconverted. He says: - 

‘“ An evil is in the professed camp of the Lord, 
so gross, so brazen in its impudence, that the most 
short-sighted of spiritual men can hardly fail to 
notice it. During the past few years it has devel- 

ed at an abnormal rate, even for evil. 

“Providing recreation for the people will soon 
be looked upon as a necessary part of Christian 
work and as binding upon the Church of God, as 
though it were a divine command, unless some 
strong voices be raised which will make them- 
selves heard. It is only during the past few years 


‘that amusement has become a recognized weapon 


of our warfare, and developed into a mission. 
There has beena steady down grade in this ye- 
spect. 

“All this is terribly sad, and the more so be- 
cause truly gracious souls are being led away by 
the specious pretext, that it is a form of Christian 











AND MISSIONARY WEEKLY 


301 


aed 





- work. They forget that a seemingly beautiful 
“angel may be the devil himself, ‘‘for Satan him- 
ae is transformed into an angel of light.” 2-Cor. 
“xi: 14, 
ae first contention is, that providing amuse- 
=! ment for the people is nowhere spoken of in Holy 
~ Seripture as one of the functions of the Church. 
., If it be a part of the church’s work, surely we 
wos may look for some promise to encourage her 
+ So rin the toilsome task. Where is it? That which 
has no authority from Christ, no provision made 
--. for it by the Spirit, no promise attached to it by 
.« God, can oaly be alying hypocrite when it lays 
‘telaim to be ‘‘a branch of the work of the Lord.” 
. “Butagain. Providing amusement for the peo- 
ple is in direct antagonism to the teaching and life 
B *of Christ and all His apostles. 
| “ls “As none will question that He is to be the work- 
| “.s: sers model, let us gaze upon Him. How “In an- 
3 ‘swer to John’s question, ‘‘ Art thou He that should 
“come?” He replies—‘Go and show John these 
‘things which ye do hear and see; the blind re- 
_- ceive their sight, and the lame walk ; the lepers 
are cleansed, and the deaf hear ; the dead are risen 




























There is no item in the catalogue after this sort 
oy. “‘fand the careless are amused, and the perishing are 
“~ provided with innocent recreation,’ 


When many of His disciples went back be- 
 gause of the searching nature of His preaching I 
do not find there was any attempt to increase a 
_ diminished congregation by resorting to some- 
“thing more pleasant to the flesh. I donot hear 
“Him saying, ‘We must keep up the gatherings 
anyway ; so run after those friends, Peter, and tell 
them we will have a different style of service to- 
-morrow. Something very short and attractive ; 
“ with little, if any, preaching. To-day was a serv- 
ice for God, but to-morrow we will have a pleas- 
‘ant evening for the people. Tell them they will 
“be sure to enjoy it, and havea happy hour. Be 
quick, Peter: we must get the people somehow ; 
_-- jf not by gospel, then by nonsense.’ No, this was 
“.. not how He argued. Gazing in sorrow on those 
who could not bear the word, He simply turns to 

~ the twelve and asks, ‘ Will ye also go away? 
“Jesus pitied sinners; pleaded with them ; 
i - sighed over them; warned them ; and wept over 

“1 «> them ; but never sought to amuse them. 

; “*How did the apostles carry on their mission 
_ work. Anything approaching the worldly footing 
of to-day is conspicuous by its absence, The early 















Nap, and the poor have the gospel preached to them. | 


evangelists had boundless confidence in the power 
of the gospel and employed no other weapon. 

‘‘The charge brought against the apostles by 
the members of the Council was * Ye have filled 
Jerusalem with your doctrine.’ Not much chance 
of this charge being brought against modern 
methods. The description of their work is, ‘And 
daily in the temple, and in every house, they 
ceased not to teach and preach Jesus Christ.” 
Then, if they, ‘ceased not’ from this, they had 
no time for arranging for entertainments; they 
gave themselves continually ‘to the ministry of 
the word.’ 

“The congregations in those days did not expect 
anything but the word of the Lord, for Cornelius 
says to Peter. ‘We are all here present before 
God, to hear all things that are commanded thee 
of God.’ 

‘Lastly. The mission of amusement utterly 
fails to effect the desired end among the unsaved ; 
but it works havoc among the young converts 
Were it a success, it would be none the less wrong 
Success belongs to God; faithfulness to His in- 
structions tome. But itis not. Testiteven by 
this and it is a contemptible failure. Let that be 
the method which is answered: by fire, and the 
verdict will be ‘The preaching of the word, that 
is the power.’ 

“Let us see the converts who have been first 
won by amusement. Let the harlot and the 
drunkard to whom a dramatic entertainment has 
been God’s first link in the chain of their conver- 
sion stand forth. Let the careless and the scc-ffers 
who have ceased to thank God that the church has 
relaxed her spirit of separation and met them half- 
way in their worldliness, speak and testify. Let 
the husbands, wives, and children, who rejoice in 
a new holy home through ‘Sunday Evening Lec- 
tures on social questions’ tell out their joy. Let 
the weary heavy-laden souls who have found 
peace through a concert, no. longer keep silent. 
Let the men and women who have found Christ 
through the reversal of apostolic methods declare, 
the same, and show the greatness of Paul's blun- 
der when he said, ‘I determined not to know any- 
thing among you save Jesus Christ, and Him cru- 
cified.’ There is neither voice nor any to answer. 
The failure is on a par with the folly, and as huge 
asthe sin. Out of thousands with whom I have 
personally conversed, the mission of amusement 
has claimed no convert. Though I have never 
seen a sinner saved, Ihave seen any number of 











i, 
4 
‘i 








303 





““hure, 






> Ww Jebter Just received irom Miss H.C. Kinney 
‘ gives further particulars of the movements of the 
young lady missionarles who went out from us in 
October. Upon landing tn Yokohama they re- 
_tumained together for several days. 4 jin-rik-sba 
Tide was given them around the bluff to view the 
«>? tobay. Yt seemed to them like going round Jericho 
. &. land many of the promises given in the ist chap- 
“ter of Joshua, kept coming to Miss Kinney’s 
7227 mind, which she claimed for her future work tn 
Japan, She describes the people as being kind, 
' #8 -2ogentie and industrious, She saw no loafers, and 
neatness and order prevatl, Almost every child 
t old enough to walk has a baby strapped upon its 
back, and they are as happy in thus taking care 
. of tt all day long as ifthey were playing with 
*:¢iols, She says the climate is trying to weak 
: jungs and she feels the need of drawing con- 
. Stnually on the life of Christ for her body, but 1s 
: conscious of belog flied and satisfied according 
«til €@ Der need and His riches in glory. She has 
taken a class of eight Japanese girls to teach 
«Bible: history. They are taking up 1st Samuel, 
and a8 they understand English quite weil it 1s 
elightful work. Dear Mrs. Plerson has taken 
her right into her heart and 1s like a mother to 
her. Miss Kinney has begun tostudy the lan- 
guage, One dear girl in Mrs, Plerson’s school has 
; accepted the Fotfr-fold Gospel, and is praying the 
ara Lord to heip Miss Kinney to speak the language 
“"“" very soon, Wer letter is full of hopefulness and 
strong faith for the completion of the work given 
her to doin Japan. 


















It has been boldly stated in the Roman Catholic 
convention at Baltimore, that America ts justthe 
country for the propagation of Romish religion, 

“Scand there is little doubt ‘that all which popish 
‘craftiness can do toward bringing this land 
“wholly uncer the control of the papal see, will be 

+S done to bring about thatregult. There are 350,000 

ie . French Roman Catholics in New England, and 

thelr numbers are being constantly increased 

+ .° by ltamigration from Canada, Roman Catholic 

"ay t,gpfiuence is working Insidiously in many direc- 

~ ons, and there is areal danger threaten{ng the 
country from it. 











The new government in Brazil is being rapidly 

-, i ciestablished. It has taken the name of the United 

. . “States of Brazil. Its size ia nearly that of the 

United States of North America. The right of 

suffrage has been extended to all persons who 

can read and write, This makes the country 

S!':-2 practically an aristocracy, as a large part of the 

>, ,.,population are totally uneducated. There are 12 

~ * 4 "honuone of people in the laud and only 200,000 of 

vt (2! f£them ean vote by this law. There are very many 

Uberated slaves in the country besides Indians 

and mixed races, The opportunities for scudy, 

“however, are good, and if 1s hoped that the new 

_ jaw in reference to voting will encoirage educa- 
“tion. : 





A convention for the promotion of holiness and 
Divine healing, was held in Bethel Chapel, Phtta- 


‘backsliders manufactured by this new depar- 


_ “Let the church again confront the world ; tes- 


tify against 


it; 














meet it only behind the cross; 


and, like her Lord, she shall overcome, and, with 











3H Missionary e [ntelligence : 





delphia, from November 12th to 15. The Ineetings 
were well attended, Many were anointed for 
heating, and the wonder-working power of the 
Lord was marvelously displayed. Some came 
with crutches and went away without them, 
some who had been serlously ili for thirty-eight 
years were instantly healed. One lady rose from 
ner sick bed where she bad lain for a year and 
came to the meeting leaning on the arm of her 
Mother, She was instantly healed, and ran 
home alone to tell her friends what Jesus bad 
done for her. Itseemed like a Pentecostal out- 
pouring of the spirit. Many sinners were con- 
verted and many belfevers entered into the 
Geeper life of faith. 


Since publishing an article on “Jerusalem” in 
the Alliance of October 4th, we are giad to learn 
of several Americans who are doing mission work 
in Palestine. A returned missionary speaks of 
several, holding perhaps somewhat pecullar 
views, who are called “ Americans on the wall” 
from the part of the city in which they are labor- 
ing. They are dotpg an earnest work in Jeru- 
salem. A correspondent also writes of three 
American women of education and culture, 
Mmambers of the Society of Friends, who have 
Charge of a mission station at Ramallah about 
ten miles north of Jerusalem. The work consists 
a Girls’ Training Home,” a hospital, a dispen- 
sary. and several day schools 








The great district of Soudan, just South of the 
Great Desert in Africa, is practically untouched 
by mission workers. It is an uncivilized and 
almost an unknown region. The Rev. H. Grattan 
Guinness of England has been the means under 
God of organizing a Pioneer Mission to that land 
which will make Monrovia, Liberia, the base of 
their operations and trom there work into this 
neglected region. Many of its workers will 
come from our Western States, particularly 
Kansas and Nebraska. A Missionary Training 
Institute has been-opened. partly to further this 
work, in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The instruc- 
tion givén will be principally Bible study. Dr. 
Guinness has taken a house in Monrovia for the 
use of the Soudan misstonartes, 


An expedition in charge of grading and laying 
the rails of the frat division of the Congo ratlroad 
jeft Antwerp on October 10th, The ground bas 
been already surveyed. This is sald to be the 
most dificult division of the whole road. It 
Tuns from Matadi to Palaballa, A second ex- 
pedition will sail some time in November. 


The Natives of Bengal have a habit of making 
rosaries by stringing the petals of a flower upon 
acord and counting their prayers as they say 
them, uponthem. As the prayers are finished 
these fragrant rosaries are cast upon the river to 
float down to the sea. Bathing in the sacred 
Gangea Is good to wash away sins as wellas 
dirt. Hence all along the eastern shore steps 
are constructe: for the penitent to go down into 


Him, share the victory. 





the river to wash away his guilt. Ifa too-familiar 
crocodile chances tosnap away his leg during 


“his penitential abiuttons, what matter! Better 


te loge a leg than not to lose one’s alns, 


There is a large emigration from the lend of 
Syrta, principally tothe United States, but also 
to Egypt, Australia, and to many ef the English 
enlonies, From twenty to twenty-five thousand 
have gone in the past two years, and the tide is 
still going out at the rate of several hundreda a 
month, They come from the finest families of 
the country. The reason is the oppreaive meas- 
ures of the government, and the feeling of hope- 
lessness in regard to any better state of affairs 
under the present rule. They leave the people 
behind to bear heavier burdens because of their 
absence. Taxes are fixed according to. the pop- 
ulation of the villages. If the decrease amounts, 
as it does in some cases to the loss of two-thirds 
of the inhabitants, the whole amqunt of taxation 
has to be made up by those remaining in the 
village. Such is the mercy and justice of the 


” Mostem rule! 





Thibet is said to be not open to misstons, yet 
the Moravians are doing mission work there, and 
have made a grammar and dictionary of the 
language. Three provinces of China, Hu-nuu, 
Kuang-si and Stng Kiang, have no missionary in 
them, No work has been done in Thibet trow 
the China side, probubly because of the oppoaition 
of Thibet to such work, There lies @ vast stertie 
region called Ko-Ko-Nor between it and the 
densely populated regions of China. The large 
district known as Chinese Turkerstan,an immense 
area, but thinly settled as compared witirthe 
Test of China, algo hag no missionary. 


Protestant missions in Turkey have two very 
difficult tasks before them. One 1s to reform the 
Orientai church, which has fallen far below its 
origina) simplicity and power. The other 1s to 
meet and conquer Mohammedanism through the 
Spirit of God. Neither is an easy task. One 
reason the Moslems have so little faith in Christ- 
janity ig because they know nothing of its 
power from the specimens of it they have seen. 
No land probably presents such a union of gigan- 
tic difficulties as this one. The missionaries 
there are almost entirely Americans and the work 
they have done, parficularly in the educational 
line, has been Marvelous. There are 70,000 Prot- 
estants in the Empire. Although the church mem- 
pership includes only 65,000, yet this is being in- 
creased at the rate of fifteen hundred 4 year, 
Six colleges have been eatablished with 1,200 
students, Beside these colleges there are 700 
schools under mission care, In which 40,000 
children are being educated. Besides all the 
branches of an ordinary common school educa- 
tion, the Bible 1s taught so thoroughly that it is 
not an uncommon thing for a clase tobe able to 
repeat the whole four of the Gospels from 
memory. 

















f 
4 
d 
| 











‘« 








— een Bee “AND MISSIONARY WEEKLY. = 0 0 808 


vo? 





- Sunday School Lessons. 


Lesson XL 








1 King’s xi: 4-13, Dee, 15, 1889. 


SOLOMON’S FALL. 


GOLDEN TEXT.—Whoerefore let him that thinketh he atandeth take 
heed lest he fall.—1 Cor, x: 12, 


INTERVENING HISTORY. 


“Solomon had now been reigning from 30 to 85 years, and was over 50 
years of age. He was within 5 or 10 years of his death at the time of this 
*Jesson, A description is given of his great wealth, and the importation 
+ of horses and chariots from Egypt since the last lesson. 

Many things had conspired to turn his heart from the Lord. The chief 
of these waa his love for many strange women. Polygamy was allowed 
JAMOng the ancient Hebrews. and the king of course wished to have a 
-Sarger harem than any of his subjects. Its 700 wives were probably 
re Maughters of tributary chiefs, given as hostages tor the continued subjec- 

*. - tlon of their fathers. The concubines were legal wives but held a lower 
‘position. The chief or first wife did not regard these with much jealousy, 
as they were all subordinate to herself and looked up to her withsubmiasion: 
The influence which these wives exerted over their husband was not: 

..BMall. To-day in the East their seductive power Is recognized as being 

_ Very great. 

Polygamy was probably not the only element in Solomon’s downfall 

. Through these wives he became tolerant of and finally a partaker In 
“Adolatrous, observances. His ambition, his wealth, the flattery he re. 


* Leeived, bis love of pleasure, even his love of wisdom ali contributed to his 
downfal. 















_ THE LESSON. 





‘The evil influence of his heathen wives seems to have taken years to 
accomplish its full result. 1t acted like a stow poison and he wes an old 
Iman before be was fully turned by it from God. There is no power 80 much 
5 to be dreaded as that which steals upon us secretly and has usin itsclutches 

- before we are fairly aware of ita presence, It is not tobe wondered at 
that belng surrounded by 1,000 designing women, Solomon shuuld insen- 
sibly be turned by them away from God. There is perhaps no part of the 

“"pharacter that needs more careful guarding than those impulses which 

‘:) ender & young person susceptible to influences from the other sex, Under 
+ God's directing hand they may be turned into channels of blessing, but ff 
‘plowed to hold unrestrained sway over the nature, they will surely drag 
.. 1t down into beastly degradation and fatal apostasy from God. Solomon's 
: pln undoubtedly consisted not only in allowing bis heathen wives to have 
altars to their gods in very sight of the temple, but in bowing down him- 
‘self and worshipping their idols of wood and stone. Ashtoreth (Astarte) 
was the female deity of the Phoenicians as Baal was the male deity, This 
worship Was accompanied with impure rites. Milcom (Moloch) was the 
, god of the Ammonites. The worship of this god consisted in offering up 
human sacrifices to it, especially the burning alive of little children. 
' Chemosh was the god of Moab, and was probably worshipped ip a similar 
~- manner to Moloch. These altars were reared on the Mt. of Olives and the 
“place 1s still known as the Mt. of Offense. 


IT, The Puntshment of Sin. 


by God was not a silent spectator of the folly and sin of hischild. Twice 
he had appeared to him with promises and warnings. The anger He is 
“S@escribed as feeling cannot in any sense be called human passion, 
God 1s ever calm. Lis unylelding aversion to sin is here represented, and 
‘was expressed to Solomon, together with the Divine displeasure to him, 

-: the sinner. _ This message was probably carried by the prophet Ahbijah. 
That God had become displeased with one whom he he had formerly 
loved, does not imply change on the part of God. Solomon had changed, 
and the gross insult he had offered tothe covenant God of his father’s 
could not but meet with a terrible Judgment. Yet this Judgment was not 
given until after God had tried to restrain him from his evil course. 
King’s 8: 14: 9; 6.) IL was tempered too with mercy for David's sake. But 
the blow at last fell and Solomon must have felt it keenly, It is harder to 
























|, plone ourselves, Solomon was proud of his glorious country, and it wks Do 
: Be ight punishment to know that on his account it should be rent asunder, 





. on *, stamp to her at 723 Park Ave., New York City. 
“1 The Folly and Sin of Solomon, 7 


have suffering come to others for our sin than to bear its consequences 


But for David’s sake the stroke would have heen more severe. MM apy evil 
consequences are averted from communities and from Individuals, because 
of the sterling Christian qualities of some dear chiid of God. The tribes 
of Judah and Benjamin remained faithfulto God and the service of the 
temple at Jerusalem, and they were joined by many pious Israelites when 
the rupture finally took place. 


LESSONS. 


1, Remember that temptations come at all times of life, and need to be 
ever watched against. 
2. Understand God's thought in connection with marriage end bec eare 
‘tul how you go against it. 
8, “Keep thy heart will all diligence ; for out of it are the inoue of 
life.” 
4, See the denger of yielding to idolatry to-day, and retting up "the 
divinities of hist, of power, of learning, of self-indulgence m apy of Its 
forms. and 
5. Learn the goodness of Godin putting up barriers to keep us. from 
destruction. 
6. Let the terrible consequences, our sin will bring to othersy. yea 
warning against committing it. a 
7. Remember that, though God is tender and merciful,. be is alco Jus 
and will by no means pardon the gullty. 


a eer 








“Membership Cards and Badges. 


*, Mrs, Whittemore, the Secretary of the Christian Alli- 
ance, desires ug to say that she will be happy to send 
cards of membership to any who wish to unite with the 
Alliance, on their sending their address and atwo cent 


She will also supply gold or silver badges to all who de- 
sire them, on application, with enclosure of the price; and 
any margin of profit, which is small, will be devoted tothe 
Missionary Fund. 


a oe 








Directory of Services in New York. 








“Gospel Tabernacle—8th ave & 44th st. 


© Sabbath 10.30a.mM.&7.80P.M. Friday 3p. M., and every 
ni ight except Saturday at 8 P. M. 





oye 








-Berachah Home, 102 E 61st st., for a short time. Daily 
meeting for Prayer and Conversation 5 P. M. : 

New York Missionary Training College, 8th Ave & 44th 
st. lecture classes daily 2-6 P. M, oe 











aera inate as 


'' Persons sending subscriptions to the office will 
confer a great favor on us by stating whether 
they are old or new. Also please write name 
and address plain. “ 


* * 
*. 


We will combine the next two Nos. and issue 


them as a Christmas Number about December 
20th. 











THE CHRISTIAN 
ESTABLISHED 1865. 


~ 


308 





ALLIANCE 





JESUS A PHYSICIAN. 


THE EXPERIENCE OF MRS. ANNA L. 
THOMPSON. 





Chap. I. Healed of Cancer (18 
.) IL Of Pneumonia (relapse). 
IL Work. IV. To Cleveland.— 
Appendix, Notes. Inaugurai Gift. 








se ; _ 687 Eighth Avenu 


seen to appreciate. 
teed. One Price TO ALL. 





A Deeply Interesting Sketch. 
Cloth, boards, 40 ets.; Flexible (uni- 
que), 30 cts.; Paper, 20 ots. 

8.F. Hancock, 34 Yeakel St., Cleveland, 
O.: or to be had of Mrs A. L. Thompson, 
156 HuronSt.,Faith Rest, Cleveland, O. 


SINGING PEOPLE READ THIS. 


: oirs of all Denominations. 
For choles af ene By Et 

Danks, author of Diamond Collection, Festiva, 
‘Anthems, etc. A collection of new Anthems. 

~| Solos, Sentences, Duets, Trios, Quartets’ etc 

“| Rasily rendered. Price, % cents each by mail; 











“FERDINAND BLEMLY, 
Successor to L. L. WeoprurF & CU., 
MANUFACTURER OF 


abber, Brass and Steel Stamps, 
Stencil Plates, Burning-Brands, etc., Ribbon 












GEORGE CARTER, 


REAL ESTATE 
INSURANCE AGENT, 


33,60 per dozen. 

SreRLING ANTHEMS. By . P. Main and B. Q 
Unseld. Over 100 anthems comptied trom the 
most popular books of the past forty years, in 
addition to many new pteces by favorite authors. 
A standard book for every choir. Pricg, 60 cents 
each by mail; $6,00 per dozen. 


, . The Male Chorus. 

tr, Da Check La Hi Se COLLEGE AVENUE, Br or fle ns Volce Stebbins, Supplies 

cee eg ee ete Monagrams. Near Harlem Railroad Depot, | avundant material of great value in Choirs, 

Ae nee per stamp and Seencil” FORDHAM, N. Y Special services, uospel Meetings, ‘Evangelistic 

» Abe. Brushes, etc M nent of Es! ork, Y. M,C. A., Y. P. 8. C. K., Sockal Gather- 

‘Rewovep from 90 Nagaau erect 10 anager of Estates ings. ete. Price, 8 cents by mall ; $8.60 per doz. 

Notarial, Corperation, Society and Solicited. For Prayer Meetings. Gospel Hymns 

“Wax Seals. —————~ | No.5. Used by Mr. L. D. Moody in his evangell: 

ot 181 a FULTON 8T ET BERT G SPENCER cal meetings, 234 choice songs with music. & 
Bet. prosttay ‘and Nassau, RFET York. AL _ 1 centa each by mail ; $30.00 per 100. 





Fear 18th St. “L” Statio! 





The Paper on this Magazine | 
18 SUPPLIED BY 


-—_—_____J. J. Murpuy, 
x John St., - New York. 
i aoe. NEW BOOKS. 


fe . iY. . ‘THE CHRISTIAN ALLIANCE PUB. CO., 

















+ Walking in the Spirit.—By Rev. A. B. Simpson.—A New 
Vol. Cloth, $1.00. Paper, 50 cents. 
-. Christ in the Bible.—Vol. II. Lev.-Deut. $2. 
. Christ Life.—New Edition. Cloth, 30c. Paper 15e. 
The Gospel of Healing.—New Edition. Cloth, 50¢, 


NEW # TRACTS. 


‘Foundation Truths respecting Divine Healing. 3c. 
..Foundation Truths respecting Sanctification. 3c. 
Rolled Away. 3c. . 
Committed. 3c. 
Himeelf. Revised Edition. 8c. 
The Faith of God. New Edition. 8c. 
: “J have learned the secret.” 3ets. 


RECENT PUBLICATIONS. 


_© > Ghrist in the Bible. Vol. I. Gen. and Ex., $2.00. 
“Vol. VII. The Life of Christ. $2.00. : 
The Land of Promise—Or, Our Full Inheritance in 
4 --Christ—By Rev. A. A. Simpson. 260 pages. Handsome 
Pee “+. Cloth, $1.00. Paner, 50c. 
: 20s Christ in the Tabernacle. Cloth, 50c. Paper, 25c. 
Cloud of Witnesses. Cloth, 75c. Paper, 50c. New Edi- 
‘tion Enlarged. : 
yi Fulness of Jesus. Paper, 75c. New Binding, Cloth, 
1.90. 
Divine Emblems in Genesis. Paper, 30c. Cloth, Gc, 
Divine Emblems in Exodus. Paper, 300. Cloth. 60c. 





i a 






menecerd 





No. 276 SIxTH AVENUE, 
in. NEW 


‘dmbrellas, 
PARASOLS AND CANES, 


MADE TO OBPER AND REPAIRED, RE-COVERED AND 
FOR BALE, 


Paper, Te 








For Sunda” Schools. Bright Array is 
the latest, must popular and attractively gotten 
up. 35 cents each by mati; $90.00 per 100, 

tz A full catalogue of our other popularub- 
ications sent on request, 


BIGLOW & MAIN, 


76 E. Ninth st. 81 Randolph st. 
Now York. Chicago. 


The King’s Business. Paper, 40c. Cloth, 60c. 
Natural Emblems of Spiritual Life. Paper,j0c. Cloth,75c. 


NR YORK. 








| -’ The Four-Fold Gospel. Paper, 150. 
; : ae 692 Eighth Avenue, New York. Foie ae 
i £ “Cloth, 25c. 


Seven Stars in the Firmament of Faith. Paper, lic. 


Inquiries and Answers concerning Divine Healing. 


Pa er, 15c. Cloth, 25c. 


hrone Life. By Dr. Geo. B.Peck. Cloth, $1. Paper,50c, 
My First Drink and Mv Last. By 8. H. Hadley, Supt. 
of the old McAuley Water Street Mission. 2c. 
The Touch of the Beloved. By Lydia A. Haddock, 8c. 
My Experience in Divine Healing. By Rev. Geo. E. 


Money and Missions. By Rev. W. C. Wilcox. 2c. 
Conditions of Fruit Bearing. By Rev. Lucius Hawkins, 


“i Jayne. 20. 


sc. 
Sickness and Health—In Ancient Israel. By Rev. F. L. 


a Chapel. 3c. 


Four-Fold Emblems of the Paraclete. By Rev. Dr. 
Easton. 3c. 

Memorial of Rev. Wm. Cassidy. 5c. 

' The crooked made straight, By George Pardington, 


-“B cents. 


ta e 
My Mistake, By A. J. Anderson, Paper Seta, Linen 10. 


NEW # LEAFLETS. 


_Old John and New John, 5c. per doz. 
Come as you are, 5c, per doz. 
Peace already Made, ic. per doz. 
The Old life, 5c. per doz. 
Are you sure, 5c. per doz. 
_ Awhole life in 3 words, 5c. 
Sanctified Sorrow, 5c. per 


et doz. 
OZ. 





