TO THE COUNCILMEN OF ALL CITIES IN 
GERMANY THAT THEY ESTABLISH AND 
MAINTAIN CHRISTIAN SCHOOLS 

1524 

To the Burgomasters and Councilmen of all cities in 
Germany. Martin Luther. 

Grace and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus 
Christ. 

Prudent, wise and dear Sirs : Having been put under the 
ban some three years ago and declared an outlaw, I should 
have remained silent had I feared the command of men 
more than God. There are indeed many persons in Ger- 
many, both great and small, who on that account, still 
attack my speaking and writing and shed much blood over it.^ 

But God has opened my mouth and bidden me speak, and is 
mightily supporting me and, without my help, strengthening 
and spreading my cause the more they rage, and seems to be 
laughing and mocking at their rage, as it is said in the 
second Psalm. By this token alone everyone who is not 2:4 

hardened can see that this cause must indeed be of God, for 
it plainly bears the mark of a divine word and work, which 
always thrive best when men are most determined to perse- 
cute and suppress them. 

Therefore I will speak, as Isaiah says; and not hold my 
peace as long as I live, until Christ’s righteousness go forth 
as brightness and His saving grace be lighted as a lamp. 


^Heinricli Vos and Johann yan den Easchen, the first martyrs of Protestant- 
ism, were burnt at Brussels, July 1, 1523. Cf. also The Burning of 
Brother Henry in Dithmarschen (1S25), included in this vol- 
jmie, see p. 184 ff. 

[[p. 103]]



[[p. 104]]

And I pray you now, all my dear sirs and friends, to receive 
kindly and lay to heart this writing and admonition of 
mine. For, no matter what I may be personally, I can boast 
before God with a good conscience that I am not seeking my 
own advantage, which I could attain far better by remaining 
silent, but am dealing in hearty good faith with you and with 
the whole German land, to which I have a divine commission, 
let men believe it or not. And I wish to assure you and 
declare to you, frankly and confidently, that if you heed me 
in this matter, you heed not me but Christ, and that if you 
heed me not, you despise not me but Christ. For I know 
and am well aware of what I am saying and teaching and 
for what purpose I say it, and everyone who is willing rightly 
to consider my teaching will discover it for himself. 

First of all, then, we are experiencing today throughout 
The De- Germany how schools are everywhere allowed to go to wrack 
and ruin; universities are growing weak, monasteries are 
declining. This grass is like to wither and the flower thereof 
Isa. fadeth, as Isaiah says, because the Spirit of the Lord bloweth 
upon it in His Word, and shineth with so great heat upon 
it through the Gospel. For since it is becoming known, 
through God’s Word, how unchristian and devoted only to 
men’s bellies those institutions are; and especially since the 
carnal multitude see that they are no longer obliged or able 
to drive their sons and daughters into monasteries and cathe- 
dral schools, and to turn them out of their own houses and 
possessions and plant them in other people’s possessions, no 
one is any longer willing to have children educated. ‘Tell 
us,” they say, “why should we send them to school, if they 
are not to become priests, monks and nuns? They had 
better learn such things as will help them to make a living !” 

From this confession of theirs it is very evident what such 
people are thinking and on what their minds are set. For if 
they had not sought only the belly and a temporal living for 
their children when they sent them into the monasteries and 
cathedral schools or into the spiritual estates, but had been 
earnestly concerned for their salvation and blessedness, they 
would not thus fold their hands, relapse into indifference and 



[[p. 105]]


say: “If the spiritual estate is no longer to count for any- 
thing, then we will let education be and not bother our 
heads about it.’' They would rather say : 'Tf it is true, as 
the Gospel teaches, that this estate is dangerous to our chil- 
dren, why then, dear sirs, show us another way to educate 
them that will be pleasing to God and profitable to them; 
we certainly want to provide not only for the bellies of our 
dear children, but also for their souls.” That, at least, is 
what true, Christian and faithful parents would say. 

But it is not surprising that the Evil One takes this at- The 
titude and inspires carnal and worldly hearts to neglect the 
children and youths. Who can blame him for it? He is a Devu 
prince and god of this world. How can he possibly be pleased 
to see his nests, the monasteries and the spiritual gangs, de- 
stroyed by the Gospel, in which nests he corrupts above all 
the young folk, who mean so much, yea, everything to him ? 

How can he be expected to permit or promote the proper 
training of the, young? He would indeed be a fool to suffer 
and help men to establish in his kingdom the very thing by 
which Ihat kingdom must be most speedily overthrown, as 
would surely happen if he lost that choice morsel, the dear 
youth, and had to permit them to be saved for the service 
of God at his expense and by means of his possessions. 

It was a most prudent course, therefore, that he adopted 
in the days when Christians had their children taught and 
trained in a Christian manner. The young multitude bade 
fair to escape him entirely and to work intolerable havoc to 
his kingdom. Then he went to work, spread his nets and 
set up such monasteries, schools and estates that it was not 
possible for a boy to escape him without a miracle from 
heaven. Now, however, that he sees his snares exposed 
through God’s Word, he flies to the other extreme and will 
not suffer anyone to study at all. It is again a right and 
prudent course that he pursues, in order to preserve his 
kingdom and by all means to retain the young. If he has 
them in his possession, they will grow up under him and 
remain his; who will take anything from him? He thus 
possesses the world in peace. For if a really crushing loss 



[[p. 106]]


is to be inflicted upon him, it must come through the young 
people, reared in the knowledge of God and spreading and 
teaching others God's Word. 

No one believes what a dangerous design of the devil's 
this is. It goes forward so silently that no one perceives it, 
and the harm is done before one can prevent it. Men fear 
the Turks and wars and floods, for in such matters they 
understand what is harmful and what is beneficial. But what 
the devil has here in mind, no one sees, no one fears, it 
proceeds so quietly. And yet everyone who would give a 
gulden to fight the Turks, if they were at our very door, 
ought properly to give a hundred gulden to this cause, even 
if only one boy could be trained therewith to become a true 
Christian man ; for a true Christian man is better and worth 
more than all men upon earth. 

Th«Duty Therefore, I pray you all, my dear sirs and friends, for 
plrtoff God s sake and the poor youths', not to treat this subject as 
sdMwia lightly as some do, who are not aware of what the prince 
of this world intends. For it is a serious and important 
matter that we help and assist our youth, and one in which 
Christ and all the world are mightily concerned. By helping 
them we shall be helping ourselves and all men. And reflect 
that these secret, subtle and crafty attacks of the devil must 
needs be met with deep Christian seriousness. If it is neces- 
sary, dear sirs, to expend annually such great sums for fire- 
arms, roads, bridges, dams and countless similar items, in 
order that a city may enjoy temporal peace and prosperity, 
why should not at least as much be devoted to the poor, 
needy youth, so that we might engage one or two competent 
men to teach school? 

M«saiw Moreover, every citizen should be moved by the following 
consideration. Formerly he was obliged to ^ve up so much 
ahja money and property for indulgences, masses, vigils, endow- 
ments, testaments, anniversaries, mendicants, brotherhoods, 
pilgrimages, and other like humbug; but now that he is rid 
by the grace of God of all that robbing and giving, he ought, 
out of gratitude to God and for His glory, to give a part 
of that amount for schools in which to train the poor chil- 



[[p. 107]]


dren, which would indeed he a good and precious investment. 
If the light of the Gospel had not dawned and set him free, 
he would have to give up to the above-mentioned robbers 
ten times as much and more for ever, without any return. 
He should also know that where there is objection and op- 
position to this proposal, the devil is assuredly present, who 
did not object when men gave their money for monasteries 
and masses, and poured it out in streams, for he perceives 
that this work is not to his advantage. Let this then, my 
dear sirs and friends, be the first consideration to move you, 
that we must upset this scheme of the devil, our most 
dangerous and subtle foe. 

Our second consideration is found in the words of St. Paul 
in II Corinthians vi, that we receive not the grace of God 
in vain nor neglect the day of salvation. For Almighty God 
has indeed graciously visited us Germans and proclaimed a 
true year of jubilee."" We have at present the most excellent 
and learned young men, adorned with the languages and all 
arts, who could be of much service if we made use of them 
as instructors of the young. Is it not evident that we are 
now able to prepare a boy in three years, so that at the age 
of 'fifteen or eighteen he wilLlmow more than all universities 
and monasteries hitherto? / indeed, what did men learn in 
those institutions but how to^hecome asses, blockheads and 
dunces ! For twenty and forty years one sat over one^s books 
without acquiring either Latin or German. I say nothing of 
the shameful and viciouajife, by which the excellent youths 
were miserably corrupted 

It is true that, rather than have the universities and monas- 
teries continue as before, with no other place for youth to 
study and live, I should wish no boy ever to study nor to 
be able to speak; for it is my earnest intention, prayer and 


^Luther wrote# “eyn recht gulden iar.” This may be freely translated 
golden opportunity,” but the allusion will be lost. Giildenjahr was the 
popular term for the 3 rear of jubilee, i.c,, the year in which a papal indulgence 
was proclaimed. It was regarded as a year of exceptiional opportunity and 
blessing; it was indeed a year of gold for the Church, and literally a gulden- 
year for those who spent their money for letters of pardon (see 86. Thesis, 
abore, V<i I, 37). Cf. KoLDE inProt.Realencyk. (3. ed.>, IX, 545-50, 


Oppor- 
tunity 
Is Here 

2 Cor. 
6:1 f. 



108 To the Q)uncilmen of All Cities in Germany 


God ha» 
Coro- 
manded 
It 

Pa 78: 
5f. 


Deut 

21:18 

ff. 


desire, that those ass-stables and devil’s-schools should either 
sink into the abyss or be converted into Christian schools.* 
But now that God has so richly blessed us and has given us 
so many men able to instruct and train our young people 
aright, surely we ought not to despise the grace of God nor 
suffer Him to knock in vain. He is standing at our door; 
happy are we if we open to Him! He is calling to us; 
blessed is he that answers him ! If we let Him pass by, who 
will bring Him back ? 

Let us consider our former misery and the darkness in 
which we sat. Germany, I trow, has never heard so much 
of God's Word as now; at least we find nothing like it in 
history. If we permit it to go by without thanks and honor, 
it is to be feared we shall suffer a still more dreadful darkness 
and plague. Buy, dear Germans, while the fair is at your 
doors ; gather in the harvest while there is sunshine and fair 
weather ; use the grace and Word of God while they are here. 
For," know this, God's Word and grace is a passing rain- 
storm, which does not return where it has once been. It 
came to the Jews, but it passed over ; now they have nothing. 
Paul brought it to the Greeks, but it passed over ; now they 
have the Turk. Rome and the Latins had it, too; but it 
passed over; now they have the pope. And you Germans 
must not think you will have it for ever; for ingratitude and 
contempt will not suffer it to remain. Take and hold fast, 
then, whoever can ; idle hands cannot but have a lean year. 

Our third consideration is by far the most important of 
all; it is the command of God. Its importance is seen in 
that He so frequently through Moses urges and enjoins 
parents to instruct their children that it is said in Psalm 
Ixxviii, ^*How straitly he commanded our fathers that they 
should give knowledge unto their children and instruct their 
children's children." It is seen also in the fourth command- 
ment, in which He so urgently enjoins children to obey their 
parents that He would even have disobedient children sen- 
tenced to death. Indeed, for what other purpose do we older 


^Cf. above, pp. 106 f. 



[[p. 109]]


folk exist than to care for, instruct and bring up the young? 

The foolish youths cannot possibly instruct nor protect them- 
selves ; God has therefore entrusted them to us who are old 
and know by experience what is good for them, and He will 
compel us to render a strict account. Hence Moses also 32:7 
commands, *^Ask thy father, and he will shew thee; thy 
elders, and they will tell thee/' 

But it is a sin and a disgrace that we must needs urge 
and be urged to train our children and youths and seek their 
best interests, when nature itself should drive us to do this 
and the examples even of the heathen afford us manifold 
instruction. There is not an irrational animal but looks 
after its young and teaches them what they need to know, 
except the ostrich, of which God says that she is hardened 
against her young ones, as though they were not hers, and 
leaves her eggs in the earth. And what would it profit us if 
we possessed and performed all else and became utter saints, 
and yet neglected the chief purpose of our life, namely, the 
care of the young? I believe also that among outward sins 
none so heavily burdens the world in the sight of God nor 
deserves such severe punishment as the sin we commit against 
our children by not giving them an education. 

When I was a lad they had this maxim in the schools: 

Non minus est negligere scholarem quam 
corrumpere virginem, — It is just as bad to 
neglect a pupil as to corrupt a virgin. This was said in 
order to frighten schoolmasters, for there was then no more 
grievous sin known than corrupting a virgin. But, dear 
Lord God, how small a sin is corrupting virgins or wives 
(which being a bodily and known sin may be atoned for) 
compared with the sin by which precious souls are neglected 
and corrupted (which is neither regarded nor known as sin 
and is never atoned for). 0 woe unto the world for ever 
and ever! Children are daily born and grow up among us, 
and there is, alas I no one to care for or to direct them ; we 
let them go on as they will. The monasteries and founda- 
tions should see to it, but they are the very ones of whom ^att. 
Christ says in Matthew xviii, ^‘Woe unto the world because issfit 



[[p. 110]]


of offences! Whoso shall offend one of these young ones 
that believe in me, it were well for him that a millstone 
were hanged about his neck and he were drowned in the 
depth of the sea.” They are nothing but devourers and 
destroyers of children. 

“Ah,” you say, “but all that is addressed to parents ; what 
business is it of councilmen and magistrates?” Very true: 
but if the parents neglect it, who is to see to it? Shall it 
on that account remain undone and the children be neglected? 
In that case, how will magistrates and councilmen excuse 
themselves by saying it is no business of theirs ? There are 
various reasons why parents neglect their duty. 

In the first place, there are those who lack the piety and 
Neglect decency, even if they had the ability, to do it. Like the 
Their ostrich, they are hardened against their young, and are 
content to have cast the eggs from them and to have brought 
children into the world; they will do nothing more. But 
these children must live among us and with us in the same 
city. How then can reason and above all Christian love 
suffer them to grow up untrained and to poison and pollute 
Gen. 20: children, until at last the whole city perish, as it 

24 f. happened in Sodom and Gomorrah, Geba, and other cities. 
2 Kings Secondly, the great majority of parents are, alas ! unfitted for 
this work and do not know how children are to be trained 
and taught, for they themselves have learned nothing but 
how to provide for the belly; whereas it takes persons of 
exceptional ability to teach and train children aright. Thirdly, 
even if parents were able and willing to do it themselves, 
they have neither the time nor the opportunity for it, what 
with their other duties and housework. Necessity compels 
us, therefore, to engage public schoolteachers for the chiL 
dren, unless everyone were willing to engage an instructor 
of his own. But that would be too heavy a burden upon the 
common man, and many a promising boy would be neglected 
on account of poverty. Besides, many parents die and leave 
orphans, and if we do not know by experience how these are 
cared for by their guardians, God Himself tells us by calling 
68:6 Himself the Father of the orphans, as of those who are 



[[p. 111]]


neglected by everyone else. Moreover, there are some who 
have no children of their own, and who for that reason take 
no interest in the training of children. 

1 It &erefore becomes the business of councilmen and why the 
magistrates to devote the greatest care and attention to state 
the young. For since the property, honor and life of the 
whole city are committed to their faithful keeping, they would scHwIb 
fail in their duty toward God and man if they did not seek 
its welfare and improvement with all their powers day and 
night. Now the welfare of a city consists not alone in 
gathering great treasures and providing solid walls, beautiful 
buildings, and a goodly supply of guns and armor. Nay, 
where these abound and reckless fools get control of them, 
the city suffers only the greater loss. But a city's best and 
highest welfare, safety and strength consist in its having 
many able, learned, wise, honorable and well-bred citizens; 
such men can readily gather treasures and all goods, protect 
them and put them to a good useT"! 

Thus it was done in ancienT^Rome. There boys were 
trained in such a way that by the time they were fifteen, 
eighteen or twenty years of age they were thoroughly con- 
versant with Latin and Greek and the various liberal arts, 
as they are called,^ and immediately entered upon a military 
or a political career. In this way they became intelligent, 
wise and competent men, skilled in all knowledge and experi- 
ence, so that if all the bishops, priests and monks in Germany 
today were rolled into one they would not equal one Roman 
soldier. As a result, their cause prospered ; they had capable 
and trained men for every position. Thus there has always 
been forced upon men everywhere, even among the heathen, 
the necessity of maintaining schoolmasters, if a nation was 
to be brought to a high standard. Hence St, Paul draws 
the word ^‘schoolmaster" from the common practice of 
mankind, when he says in Galatians iv, “The law became 
our schoolmaster." 

Since, then, a city should and must have men, and there 


*Le„ tifie trivium: grammar, rhetoric, and logic; and the quadriv- 
ium; music, arithmetic, geometry, and astronomy. 

Vpl, IV.~8 



112 To the Gouncilmen of All Cities in Germany 

is everywhere a lack of such men and complaint that they 
cannot be found, we dare not wait until they grow up of 
their own accord (nor can we hew them out of stone nor 
carve them out of wood) ; and since God will work no 
miracles so long as men can solve their problems by means 
of the other gifts He has granted them: therefore we must 
do our part and spare no labor or expense to train and 
produce such men. Whose fault is it that there are at 
present in all cities so few capable men, but the fault of 
the authorities who have left the young to grow up like 
saplings in the forest and have given no thought to their 
instruction and training 1 As a result, they have grown so 
misshapen that they cannot be used for building purposes, 
but are mere brushwood, fit only for fuel 
The civil government must certainly continue. Shall we 
then permit none but clods and boors to rule, when we can 
get better men? That would indeed be a barbarous and 
foolish policy. We might as well make rulers of swine and 
wolves, and set them over those who will not consider how 
they may be ruled by men. Moreover, it is inhuman per- 
versity to think no further than this, “We will rule now; 
what concern is it of ours how they will fare who come 
after us?’^ Not over human beings, but over swine and dogs 
should such persons rule, who seek only their own profit or 
honor in governing. Even if we took the utmost pains to 
train up none but able, learned and skilled rulers, there would 
still be room enough for toil and labor in order that the 
government might prosper. How shall it prosper if no one 
takes any pains at all? 

Why “But,’' you say again, “granted that we must have schools, 
what is the use of teaching Latin, Greek, Hebrew, and the 

Lanr other liberal arts ? We can still teach the Bible and God’s 
Word in German, which is sufficient for our salvation.” I 
reply: Alas! I know well that we Germans must always 
remain brutes and stupid beasts, as neighboring nations call 
us and as we richly deserve to be called. But I wonder why 
we never ask: What is the use of silks, wine, spices, and 
strange foreign wares, when we have in Germany not only 



[[p. 113]]


wine, grain, wool, flax, wood and stone enough for our needs, 
but also the very best and choicest of them for our honor 
and ornament? Arts and languages, which are not only not 
harmful, but a greater ornament, profit, honor and benefit, 
both for the understanding of Scripture and for the conduct 
of government, these we despise; but we cannot do without 
foreign wares, which we do not need, which bring us in no 
profit, and which reduce us to our last penny. Are we not 
justly dubbed German fools and beasts? 

Truly, if there were no other use for the languages, this 
alone ought to rejoice and move us, that they are so fine and J 
noble a gift of God, with which He is now richly visiting Chnrcii 
and endowing us Germans, more richly indeed than any 
other land. There is little evidence that the devil suffered 
them to be revived through the universities and monasteries; 
these have, on the contrary, always raged against them and 
are still raging. For the devil smelt a rat and perceived that 
if the languages were revived, there would be a hole knocked 
in his kingdom which he might have difficulty stopping. 

Since he was unable, however, to prevent their being revived, 
his aim is now to keep them on such slender rations that they 
will of themselves decline and pass away. They are like an 
unwelcome guest who has come to his house; so he deter- 
mines to show him such entertainment that he will not tarry 
long. Very few of us, my dear sirs, see through this 
wicked plot of the devil. 

Therefore, my beloved Germans, let us open our eyes, 
thank God for this precious treasure, and guard it well, lest 
it be again taken from us and the devil have his will. For 
though the Gospel has come and daily comes through the 
Holy Spirit alone, we cannot deny that it has come by means 
of the languages, by which it was also spread abroad, and 
by which it must be preserved. For when God desired 
through the apostles to spread abroad the Gospel in all the Acts 2:4 
world. He provided tongues for that purpose. And before 
that He had spread the Greek and Latin languages, by means 
of the Roman empire, throughout all lands, in order that 
His Gospel might the more speedily bear fruit far and wide. 



[[p. 114]]


He has done the same now. No one knew for what purpose 
God suffered the languages to be revived, until we now 
begin to see that it was for the sake of the Gospel, which 
He intended afterwards to reveal, in order to expose and 
destroy thereby the kingdom of antichrist. To this end He 
also gave over Greece to the Turk, in order that the Greeks, 
driven out and scattered, might spread their language and 
.give an incentive to the study of other languages as well. 

In proportion, then, as we prize the Gospel, let us guard 
the languages. For not in vain did God have His Scriptures 
set down in these two languages alone — ^the Old Testament 
in Hebrew, the New in Greek. The languages, therefore, 
that God did not despise but chose above all others for His 
Word, we too ought to honor above all others. For St. Paul 
declared it to be a peculiar glory and distinction of Hebrew 
that God gave His Word in that language, when he said in 
Rom. Romans iii, 'What profit is there of circumcision? Much 
3:if. every way: chiefly, because unto them were committed the 
Ps. oracles of God.” King David also boasts in Psalm cxlvii, 
147:19 ''He sheweth his word unto Jacob, his statutes and his judg- 
ments unto Israel. He hath not dealt so with any nation 
nor made known to them his judgments.” Hence Hebrew 
Rom. is called a sacred language, and St. Paul terms it in Romans i 
1=2 "the holy scriptures,” doubtless because of the holy Word 
of God contained therein. Similarly, the Greek language 
may be called sacred, because it was chosen above all others 
as the language in which the New Testament was to be 
written and from which, as from a fountain, it flowed by 
translation into other languages and made them also sacred. 

And let us be sure of this : we shall not long preserve the 
Gospel without the languages. The languages are the sheath 
6;17 in which this sword of the Spirit is contained; they are the 
casket in which we carry this jewel; they are the vessel in 
which we hold this wine; they are the larder in which this 
food is stored ; and as the Gospel itself says, they are the 
baskets in which we bear these loaves and fishes and frag- 
ments. If through our neglect we let the languages go 
(which may God forbid !), we shall not only lose the Gospel, 



That They Establish Christian Schools US 

but come at last to the point where we shall be unable either 
to speak or write a correct Latin or German. As proof and 
warning of this, let us take the wretched and woeful example 
of the universities and monasteries, in which men not only 
unlearned the Gospel, but corrupted the languages so that 
the miserable folk were fairly turned into beasts, unable to 
read or write a correct German or Latin and wellnigh losing 
their natural reason to boot. 

Hence the apostles themselves considered it necessary to 
put the New Testament into Greek and to bind it fast to 
that language, doubtless in order to preserve it for us safe 
and sound as in a sacred ark. For they foresaw all that was 
to come and now has come to pass", and knew that if it were 
contained only in men's heads, wild and fearful disorder and 
confusion, and many various interpretations, fancies and 
doctrines would arise in the Church, which could be pre- 
vented and from which the plain man could be protected 
only by committing the New Testament to writing and lan- 
guage. Hence it is certain that unless the languages remain 
the Gospel must finally perish. 

This has been proved and is still shown by experience. 
Immediately after the days of the apostles, when languages 
ceased, the Gospel, the faith and the whole Church gradually 
declined, until they sank under the pope to the lowest depth ; 
and after the languages declined very little that is excellent 
was witnessed in the Church, but a great many dreadful 
abominations arose because the languages were unknown. 

On the other hand, since the languages have been restored, 
they bring with them so bright a light and accomplish such 
great things that the woIe world wonders and is forced to 
confess that we have the Gospel quite as purely as the apostles 
had it, and that it has altogether attained to its original 
purity, far beyond what it was in the days of St. Jerome or 
St. Augustine. In short, the Holy Spirit is no fool and does 
nothing unadvisedly or uselessly; He regarded the languages 2 a 
as of so great value and necessity to the Church that He 
oftentimes brought them down with Him from heaven. This ^ 
alone should be a sufficient incentive for us to pursue them 



[[p. 116]]


with diligence and reverence and not to despise them, for 
He Himself has now again revived them upon earth, 

“But,” you say, “many of the fathers were saved and even 
became teachers without languages.” That is true. But 
how do you account for the fact that they so frequently 
erred in the Scriptures? How often does not St. Augustine 
err in the Psalter and in other expositions! Likewise St. 
Hilary, and indeed all of them who attempted to expound 
Scripture without the languages. And even though what 
they said now and then was true, they were not sure whether 
it really belonged in the passage into which they read it. For 
example, it is correct to say that Christ is the Son of God; 
but it must have sounded like a jest to their opponents when 
they proved this from Psalm cx. Tecum principium 
in die virtutis tuae, whereas in the Hebrew there is 
not a word about the Deity in this passage! Now when 
men defend the faith with such uncertain arguments and 
mistaken proof texts, are not Christians put to shame and 
made a laughing-stock in the eyes of opponents who know 
the language ? And the latter become only the more hardened 
in their errors and have a good pretext for regarding our 
faith as a human dream. 

What is the reason that our faith is thus put to shame? 
It is because we do not know the languages; and there is 
no other way out than to know the languages. Was not 
St, Jerome obliged to make a revised translation of the 
Psalter from the Hebrew, because when we dispute with 
Jews on the basis of our Psalter they laugh at us and say 
our version does not agree with the Hebrew? Now the 
expositions of all the early fathers who treated the Scriptures 
without languages, even when their teaching is not wrong, 
are of such a nature that they very often employ uncertain, 
inconsistent and inappropriate language; they grope like a 
blind man along a wall, so that they very frequently miss the 
sense of their text and twist it like a nose of wax to suit 
their fancy, as in the verse mentioned above, Tecum 
principium, etc. Even St Augustine is obliged to 
confess; as he does in his De doctrina Christiana, 



[[p. 117]]


that a Christian teacher who is to expound the Scriptures 
must know, in addition to Latin, also Greek and Hebrew; 
otherwise it is impossible not to stumble constantly, nay, 
there is room enough for labor and toil even when one is 
well versed in the languages. 

There is a great difference, therefore, between a simple i Cor. 
preacher of the faith and an expositor of Scripture, or as 
St. Paul puts it, a prophet. A simple preacher, to be sure, 
is in possession of so many clear passages and texts from 
translations that he can know and teach Christ, lead a holy 
life and preach to others. But to interpret Scripture, to 
treat it independently, and to dispute with those who cite it 
incorrectly, to that he is unequal; that cannot be done 
without languages. Yet there must always be such prophets 
in the Church, who are able to treat and expound the Scrip- 
tures and also to dispute; a saintly life and correct doctrine 
are not enough. Hence languages are absolutely necessary 
in the Church, just as prophets or expositors are necessary, ^ 
although not every Christian or preacher need be such a i2;8ff. 
prophet, as St.Paul says in I Corinthians xii and Ephesians iv. Eph. 

Thus it has come about that since the days of the apostles 
the Scriptures have remained obscure and no trustworthy 
and enduring expositions have anywhere been written. For 
even the holy fathers frequently erred, as has been said, and 
because of their ignorance of the languages seldom agree; 
one says this, another that. St. Bernard was a man of lofty 
mind, whom I almost venture to set above all other celebrated 
teachers both ancient and modem; and yet he often trifles 
with Scripture, albeit in a pious spirit, and in many of his 
quotations departs from its tme sense. For this reason the 
sophists" also claimed that Scripture was obscure ; they held 
that God’s Word was by its very nature obscure and em- 
ployed a peculiar speech. They do not see that the whole 
trouble lies in ignorance of the languages; if we understood 
the languages there would be no simpler speech anywhere 


» Luther’s standing name for the mediaeval theologians. 



118 To the Gooncilmen of All Cities in Germany 


1 Cor. 
14:27, 
29 


than God's Word. A Turk's speech must needs be obscure 
to me; a Turkish child of seven would easily understand him, 
whereas I do not know the language. 

Hence it was also a stupid undertaking to attempt to learn 
the meaning of Scripture by reading the expositions of the 
fathers and their numerous books and glosses. Instead of 
this, men should have given themselves to the study of lan- 
guages. For because they were without languages the dear 
fathers at times belabored a text with many words and yet 
caught barely an inkling of its meaning; their comment is 
half guess work, half error. And yet you run after it with 
much labor, when you could meanwhile by means of the 
languages find a much better interpretation than the one you 
are following. For in comparison with the comments of all 
the fathers, the languages are as sunlight to shadow. Since, 
then, it becomes Christians to use the Holy Scriptures as 
their own and only book, and it is a sin and shame not to 
know our own book nor to understand our God's speech and 
words, it is a still greater sin and loss if we do not study the 
languages, the more that God is now offering and giving us 
men and books and every aid and inducement to this study, 
and desires His Bible to be an open book. How glad would 
the dear fathers have been if they had had our opportunity 
of learning the languages and coming thus equipped to the 
Holy Scriptures ! What toil and labor it cost them barely to 
gather up the crumbs, while we may have the whole loaf with 
but half their labor, indeed, with scarce any labor at all. Oh, 
how their diligence puts our indolence to shame; nay, how 
strictly God will judge our lack of diligence and gratitude! 

Here belongs also what St. Paul says in I Corinthians xiv, 
namely, that there should be in the Church those who will 
judge all teaching."^ To this end it is undoubtedly necessary 
to know the languages. For the preacher or teacher may 
expound the Bible from beginning to end after his own 
fashion, hit or miss, if there is no one present to judge 
whether his teaching be right or wrong. But in order to 


^Cf, above p. 117. 



[[p. 119]]


judge, men must know the languages, otherwise it is im- 
possible. Therefore, though the faith and the Gospel may 
be proclaimed by simple preachers without the languages, 
such preaching is flat and tame, men grow at last wearied 
and disgusted and it falls to the ground. But when the 
preacher is versed in the languages, his discourse has fresh- 
ness and force, the whole of Scripture is treated, and faith 
finds itself constantly renewed by a continual variety of 
words and works. Hence Psalm cxxviii^ likens such studies Pa. 29:9 
in the Scriptures to a chase when it declares that God 
discovereth the dense forest to the deer; and Psalm i likens Ps. i:3 
them to an ever green tree beside ever fresh waters. 

Nor should we be led astray because some boast of the 
Spirit and despise the Scriptures' or others, like the Walden- 
sian Brethren,® consider the languages unnecessary. But, 
dear friend, you may say what you will about the Spirit, I 
too have been in the Spirit and have seen the Spirit, perhaps 
more of it (if it comes to boasting of one’s own flesh) than 
they with all their vaunting shall see in a year. My Spirit, 
moreover, has given some account of itself, while theirs sits 
very quietly in its corner and does little but sing its own 
praise. But I know full well how perfectly the “Spirit” does 
all things: I should indeed have failed egregiously if the 
languages had not aided me and given me a certain and 
positive knowledge of Scripture. I too could have lived 
uprightly and preached the truth in seclusion, but I should 
then have left undisturbed the pope and the sophists with 
the whole antichristian realm. The devil has not so much 
respect for my spirit as he has for my speech and pen when 
they deal with Scripture. For my spirit takes from him 

*By mistake Luther or his printer prefixed a superfluous numeral. A worse 
mistake is the forced application of the two psalm verses. 

3 The Schwarmer, especially the Zwickau prophets and Karlstadt. 

Luther dealt fully with them in his Wider dfe himmlischen 
Propheten (1525). 

»He means the Bohemian Brethren, or Picards (as distinguished from the 
Utraquists, cf Vol. II, 144), for whom he wrote Vom Anbeten des 
Sakraments (1523),.— Cf. Kostlin-Kawerau, Martin Luthetr 
(1903), I, 633-38, 



120 To the Gouncilmen of All Cities in Germany 


Far th« 
Salce 
of the 
State 


Ps. 64:: 
(Vul- 
gate) 


nothing but myself alone, but Holy Scripture and the lan- 
guages leave him but little room on earth, and that means a 
loss to his kingdom. 

Nor can I at all commend the Waldensian Brethren for 
depreciating the languages. Even if they taught the truth, 
they must nevertheless frequently miss the right sense of a 
text and are also unequipped and unskilled in the defence of 
the faith against error. Moreover, their teaching is so 
obscure and expressed in so peculiar a form, departing from 
that of Scripture, that I am afraid it may not be pure or may 
not continue pure. For there is great danger in speaking of 
divine things in a different manner and in different terms 
from those employed by God Himself. In short, they may 
lead holy lives and teach holy things among themselves, but 
as long as they remain without the languages they cannot but 
lack what all the rest lack, namely, the ability to treat Scrip- 
ture with certainty and thoroughness and to be useful to 
other nations. But since they could do this and refuse, let 
them see how they will answer for it to God. 

Well, this may suffice concerning the necessity and value 
of languages and Christian schools for the spiritual realm 
and the salvation of souls. Let us now consider also the 
body. Let us suppose that there were no soul and no heaven 
or hell and we had to consider only the temporal government 
after the manner of the world, and let us see whether it does 
not need good schools and educated persons more sorely 
even than the spiritual realm. Hitherto the sophists have 
shown no concern whatever for the temporal government, 
and have confined their schools so exclusively to the spiritual 
estate that it was well nigh a disgrace for an educated man 
to marry; he had to hear such remarks as, ‘^Behold, he is 
turning secular and does not care to become a spiritual V* 
just as if their spiritual estate were alone pleasing to God 
and the secular estate, as they call it, were altogether of the 
^ devil and unchristian. But in the sight of God they them- 
selves become meanwhile the devil’s own, and (as happened 
to Israel in the Babylonian captivity) this poor populace has 
alone remained in the land and in the right estate, while the 



[[p. 121]]


better people and the leaders were carried ofif to the devil 
with tonsure and cowl to Babylon."^ 

It is not necessary here to state that the temporal govern- 
ment is a divine order; I have elsewhere' so fully treated 
this subject that I trust no one has any doubt about it. The 
question is rather, how to get good and skilled persons into 
the government. In this we are challenged and put to shame 
by the heathen, who in former times, especially in Rome and 
Greece, without knowing whether this estate was pleasing to 
God or not, were so earnest and diligent in educating and 
fitting their boys and girls for it that when I think of this I 
blush for us Christians, and especially for us Germans, who 
are such utter blockheads and beasts that we can ask, “Pray, 
what good are schools if one is not to become a spiritual?’' 
We certainly know, or should know, how necessary and 
useful a thing it is and how well pleasing to God, when a 
prince, lord, councilman or any other ruler is educated and 
trained to conduct himself in his office as a Christian should. 

If then there were no soul, as I have said, and if there 
were no need at all of schools and languages for the sake 
of the Scriptures and of God, this one consideration should 
suffice to establish ever3rwhere the very best schools for both 
boys and girls, namely, that in order outwardly to maintain 
its temporal estate, the world must have good and skilled 
men and women, so that the former may rule well over land 
and people and the latter may keep house and train children 
and servants aright. Now such men must come from our 
boys and such women from our girls. Therefore the thing 
to do is to teach and train our boys and girls in the proper 
manner. But I said above that the common man does 
nothing to bring this about; he cannot, he will not, he does 
not know how. Princes and lords ought to do it, but they 
must needs ride in sledges, and drink, and take part in 
masquerades; they are burdened with high and important 
business in cellar, kitchen and bedroom. And though some 
of them would gladly do it, they must stand in fear of the 

1 Cf. Vol. n, 242. 

* Cl Vot III, p. 22$ ff. 



122 To the Gouncilmen of All Cities in Geimany 

others, lest they be taken for fools or heretics. It rests, 
therefore, dear councilmen, altogether with you; you have 
also more opportunity for doing it than princes and lords. 

Th© “But,’' you say, “everyone may instruct his sons and 
Kind of daughters himself, or at least train them by means of 
Ne^ discipline." I reply : We know indeed what such teaching 
and training amount to. Even when the severest discipline 
is applied and has turned out well, the net result is a certain 
enforced outward respectability; underneath ate the same old 
blockheads, unable to converse on any subject or to be of 
assistance to anyone. But if children were instructed and 
trained in schools or elsewhere where there were learned and 
well-trained schoolmasters and schoolmistresses to teach the 
languages, the other arts, and history, they would hear the 
happenings and the sayings of all the world and learn how 
it fared with various cities, estates, kingdoms, princes, men, 
and women ; thus they could in a short time set before them- 
selves, as in a mirror, the character, life, counsels and pur- 
poses, success and failure of the whole world from the begin- 
ning. As a result of this knowledge, they could form their 
own opinions and adapt themselves to the course of this out- 
ward life in the fear of God, draw from history the knowl- 
edge and understanding of what should be sought and what 
avoided in this outward life, and become able also by this 
standard to assist and direct others. But the training which 
is undertaken at home, apart from such schools, attempts to 
make us wise through our own experience. Before that 
comes to pass we shall be dead a hundred times over, and 
shall have acted inconsiderately all our life; for much time 
is needed to acquire one's own experience. 

Now since the young must romp and leap or at least have 
something to do that gives them pleasure, and since this 
should not be forbidden (nor would it be well to forbid them 
everything), why should we not furnish them such schools 
and lay before them such studies? By the grace of God it 
has now become possible for children to study with pleasure 
and in play languages, the other arts, or history. The kind 
of schools we attended are a thing of the past— that hell and 



[[p. 123]]


purgatory in which we were tormented with cases and tenses, 
and yet learned less than nothing with all the flogging, 
trembling, anguish and misery. If we take so much time 
and trouble to teach children card-playing, singing and danc- 
ing, why do we not take as much time and trouble to teach 
them reading and other branches, while they are young and 
have the time, and are apt and eager to learn ? For my part, 
if I had children and could accomplish it, they should study 
not only the languages and history, but singing, instrumental 
music, and all of mathematics.'^ For what is all this but 
mere child's play? In these branches the Greeks in former 
times trained their children, who grew up into men and 
women of wondrous ability, skilled in every pursuit. How I 
regret now that I did not read more poets and historians, and 
that no one taught me them ! I was obliged instead to read, 
with great cost, labor and injury, that devil's filth, the 
philosophers and sophists, from which I have all I can do to 
get myself clean. 

Now you say, '‘But who can spare his children for so long 
a time, and train them all to be young gentlemen? There is 
work for them to do at home, etc." I reply: It is not in 
the least my intention to have such schools established as we 
had heretofore, in which a boy sat over his Donatus and 
Alexander'* for twenty or thirty years and yet learned nothing. 
We are living in a new world today and things are being 
done differently. My idea is to let boys go to such a school 
for one or two hours a day, and spend the remainder of the 
time working at home, learning a trade or doing whatever 
their parents desired ; so that both study and work might go 
hand in hand while they were young and able to do both. 
They spend at least ten times as much time with their pea- 
shooters or playing ball or racing and tussling. In like 
manner, a girl can surely find time enough to go to school 
one hour a day and still attend to all her duties at home ; she 


arithmetic, geometry, and astronomy. — Cf. above, p. Ill, n. 1- 
* Aelius Donatus, Ars Grammatica and A r s minor; and 
Alexander de Villa Dei, Doctrinale puerorum, two widely used 
mediaval grammars, the latter in verse form. — Cf. 0. Scheei,, Martin 
Luther, I, 56. 



[[p. 124]]

sleeps, dances and plays away more time than that. There 
is only one thing lacking, and that is the earnest desire to 
train the young people and to benefit and serve the world 
with well-bred men and women. The devil very much pre- 
fers coarse blockheads and ne'er-do-wells, lest men live too 
comfortably on earth. 

But the exceptional pupils, who give promise of becoming 
skilled teachers, preachers and holders of other spiritual posi- 
tions, should be kept longer at school or altogether dedicated 
to a life of study, as we read of the holy martyrs who had 
the training of Sts. Agnes, Agatha, Lucy and others,^ That 
was how the monasteries and cathedral schools originated, 
which have now, however, been perverted to a very different 
and damnable use. And there is great need of such advanced 
study, for the shaven crowd is fast dwindling; besides, most 
of them are unfit to teach and rule, for all they know is how 
to care for the belly, which is indeed all they have been 
taught. We must certainly have men to administer God's 
Word and Sacraments and to do pastoral work among the 
people. But where shall we get them if we let our schools 
decline and do not replace them with others that are Chris- 
tian? For the schools that have been maintained hitherto, 
even if they were not to pass away, can produce nothing but 
lost and pernicious deceivers. 

It is highly necessary, therefore, that we take up this 
matter in all seriousness and without loss of time, not only 
for the sake of the young, but in order to preserve both our 
spiritual and our temporal estate. If we miss this oppor- 
tunity, we may perhaps find our hands tied later on when we 
would gladly attend to it, and may be compelled in vain to 
suffer, in addition to the loss, the pangs of remorse for ever. 
For God is generously offering us His help, He stretches 
forth His hand and gives us all things needful for this work. 
If we despise His offer we are judged already with Israel, 
Isa. 65:2 whom Isaiah says, “I teve spread out my hands all the 
day unto the unbelieving and rebellious people” ; and Prov- 


^ St. Agnes was martyred while still a school girl. Cf. Schaefer, L . a 1 s 
Kirchen historiker, 235. On Ss. Agatha and Lucy, ibid. 233, 236. 



[[p. 125]]


erbs i, ‘1 have stretched out my hand, and no man re- 
garded; ye have set at nought all my counsel: therefore I 
will also laugh at your calamity; I will mock when your fear 
cometh upon you/’ Of this let us beware ! Consider, as an 
example, the great zeal of King Solomon in this regard; so 
deeply concerned was he for the young that in the midst of 
his royal duties he prepared for them a book called Proverbs. 
And consider Christ Himself — ^how He draws young children 
to Himself, how urgently He commends them to us, and how 
He praises the angels that attend them (Matthew xviii), in 
order to show us how great a service it is to train the young 
well ; on the other hand, how terrible is His anger when men 
offend them and let them perish! 

Therefore, dear sirs, take seriously this work, which God 
so urgently requires of you, which your office lays upon you, 
which is so necessary for the young, and without which 
neither the temporal nor the spiritual realm can exist. Alas ! 
we have rotted and perished long enough in darkness; we 
have too long been German beasts. Let us for once make 
use of our reason, so that God may behold our gratitude for 
His benefits, and other lands see that we, too, are human 
beings, able to learn useful things from them or teach them 
to them, in order that through us, too, the world may be 
made better. I have done my part. It has truly been my 
purpose to help and benefit the German nation. If some 
despise me for this and refuse to listen to my sincere advice, 
because they think they know better, I cannot help it. I 
know indeed that others could have done this better; it is 
only because they hold their peace that I am doing it as well 
as I can. It is surely better to have spoken on the subject, 
however inadequately, than to have remained altogether 
silent. I hope that God will stir up some of you, so that my 
well-meant advice may not be in vain, and that you will not 
consider him that utters it but fix your mind on the cause 
itself and let it fix itself in your mind. 

Finally, one thing more should be well considered by all 
who earnestly desire to have such schools and languages 
established and maintained in Germany. It is this: no 


^‘rov. 
1:24 ff. 


Matt. 
18:5 flf. 

Matt, 

18:10 


Th« 

Need! of 

Libras 

tin 



126 To the Gouncilmen of All Cities in Germany 


effort or expense should be spared to found good libraries, 
especially in the larger cities, which can well afford it. For 
if the Bible and all thie arts are to be preserved, they must 
be contained and held fast in books and writings, as was 
done by the prophets and apostles themselves, as I have said 
above.'' This is necessary, not only that those who are to 
be our spiritual and temporal leaders may have books to 
read and study, but that the good books, the arts and the 
languages that we now have through the grace of God may 
be preserved and not lost. St. Paul, too, was concerned for 

1 this, when he commanded Timothy to give attendance to 

2 Tim. reading, and bade him bring with him the parchment left at 

Troas. Indeed, all kingdoms that attained preeminence gave 
attention to this matter, especially the people of Israel, among 
whom Moses was the first to undertake this work, when he 
Deut. had the book of the law preserved in the ark of God and gave 
3i:25f.it charge of the Levites, from whom whoever needed it 
Deut. might obtain a copy ; he even commands the king to procure 
from them a copy of this book. Thus we see how God 
appointed the levitical priesthood, among its other duties, to 
watch over and have the care of books. Afterwards this 
library was added to and improved by Joshua, then by 
Samuel, David, Solomon, Isaiah, and thus continuously by 
many other kings and prophets. Whence have come the 
Holy Scriptures of the Old Testament, which would never 
have been collected or preserved if God had not required 
such care to be bestowed upon them. 

Following this example, the cathedral schools and monas- 
teries also established libraries in former days, although 
there were few good books in them. What a loss it was 
not to have attended to the securing of books and good 
libraries in those days when there were books and men 
enough for that purpose, was plainly seen afterwards when 
all arts and languages gradually declined, and instead of 
good books the stupid, useless and harmful books of the 


ip. 114. 



[[p. 127]]


monks, Catholicon,’^ Florista,^ Graecista/ 
Labyrinthus,^ Dormi secure,® and the like 
ass's dung, were introduced by the devil. Consequently the 
Latin language became corrupted and there remained no- 
where a decent school, course of instruction or method of 
study, until, as we have experienced and observed, men 
recovered with much toil and labor the languages and arts, 
although only imperfectly, from bits and fragments of old 
books hidden among dust and worms, and are still searching 
laboriously for them every day, as men dig for treasures 
and jewels in the ashes of a ruined city. 

It served us right, and God properly rewarded us for our 
ingratitude in not considering His benefits nor providing, 
while we had the time and the ability, for the continuance 
among us of good books and learned men. When we neg- 
lected this, as though it was no concern of ours. He in turn 
did the same, and instead of Holy Scripture and good books 
suffered Aristotle to come in with countless hurtful books 
that only drew us farther away from the Bible. In addition 
to these He let in those devil's masks, the monks, and the 
phantoms of the universities, which we endowed with super- 
human gifts, and received and loaded upon our own necks a 
host of doctors, preachers, masters, priests and monks, that 
is to say, great coarse fat asses adorned with red and brown 
birettas, resembling a sow with a golden chain and jewels, 
who taught us nothing good, but made us only the blinder 
and more stupid, and in return devoured all our goods and 
filled all monasteries and indeed every corner with the filth 
and dung of their vile, poisonous books, which it is appalling 
to contemplate. 

Was it not a cruel misfortune that a boy was obliged here- 


Latin lexicon, compiled by the Dominican Joh. Jantiensis (1286). 

*i.e., Ludolph von Luchow in Hildesheim, author of a rhymed Latin syntax 
(1317). 

*i.e., Eberhard von Bethune, the alleged anthor of a combined grammar and 
lexicon. 

* The title of a poem de raiseriis rectorum scholarutn (1220), 
probably by Eberhard von Bethune, 

•The aptly chosen title of a collection of sermons made by Joh. von Warden 
about the middle of the 15th century. 

Vol. IV.—9 




128 To the Councllmen of All Cities in Germany 


tofore to study twenty years and more, only to learn enough 
bad Latin to become a priest and read mass ? Whoever got 
as far as this was counted blessed. Blessed was the mother 
that bore such a child ! And yet he remained all his life a 
poor ignoramus, fit neither to cackle nor to lay eggs. Such 
teachers and masters we were obliged to put up with every- 
where, who knew nothing themselves and could teach nothing 
good or worth while, nay, who did not even know how to 
study and teach. Where was the fault? There. were no 
other books than those stupid books of the monks and sophists. 
What else could come from them but pupils and teachers as 
stupid as the books they used? A daw cannot hatch doves, 
and a fool cannot produce a sage. That is the reward of 
ingratitude, because men did not found libraries, but let the 
good books perish and kept the poor ones. 

The But my advice is not to huddle together indiscriminately 
all sorts of books and to look only to their number and 
to K^ii quantity. I would gather only the best; there is no need of 
collecting the commentaries of all jurists, the sentences of 
all theologians, the questions of all philosophers, and the 
sermons of all monks. Indeed, I would throw out all such 
dung and furnish my library with the right sort of books, 
consulting with scholars as to my choice. First of all there 
should be in it the Holy Scriptures in Latin, Greek, Hebrew, 
German, and in whatever other languages they might be had. 
Then the best commentaries, and if I could find them, the 
most ancient, in Greek, Hebrew and Latin. Then books that 
aid us in acquiring the languages, such as the poets and 
orators, no matter whether heathen or Christian, Greek or 
Latin; for it is from such books one must learn grammar. 
Then should come books of the liberal arts and all the other 
arts. Lastly, books of law and of medicine, though here too 
a careful choice among commentaries should be made. 

Among the chief books, however, should be chronicles and 
histories, in whatever language they may be had; for they 
are of wondrous value for understanding and controlling the 
course of this world and especially for noting the wonderful 



[[p. 129]]


works of God."^ How many fine tales and maxims we should 
have today of things that took place and were current in 
German lands, not one of which is known to us, simply 
because there was no one to write them down, and no one to 
preserve the books had they been written. That is why 
nothing is known in other lands about us Germans, and we 
must be content to have all the world call us German beasts, 
who know only how to war, gorge and guzzle. The Greeks 
and Romans and even the Hebrews recorded their history 
so accurately and diligently that if but a woman or a child 
did or said anything unusual, all the world must read and 
know it. Meanwhile we Germans are still nothing but 
Germans and will always remain Germans. 

Since, then, God has at present so graciously bestowed 
upon us an abundance of arts, scholars, and books, it is time 
to reap and gather in the best, so far as we are able, and to 
lay up treasure in order that we may preserve for the future 
something of these years of jubilee^ and not lose this bounti- 
ful harvest. For it is to be feared (and a beginning is 
already being made) that men will go on writing new and 
different books until at last, through* the agency of the devil, 
the good books which have now been produced and printed 
will again be suppressed and the bad and hurtful books with 
their useless and senseless rubbish will once more swarm 
back and litter every nook and corner. For the devil as- 
suredly intends that we should again be burdened and tor- 
tured with Catholicons, Floristas, modernists,® and the cursed 
dung of the monks and sophists, just as before, for ever 
studying and yet never learning anything. 

Therefore I beseech you, my dear sirs, to let this my sincer- 
ity and zeal bear fruit among you. Should there be any who 
count me too insignificant to profit by my advice, or who 
despise me as one condemned by the tyrants, I pray them to 

^Luther discusses at length the value of history in his preface to Link's 
translation of G, Cai»ei,i-a's History of Francesco Sforza, Duke of Milan (1539), 
reprinted in the Weimar Ed. LXIII, 353 if. — Cf. R. Neubauer, 
Martin Luther, II (4. and 5. cd., 1914), 97-103. 

* Cf. above, p. 107. 

* Cf. above, p. 127. The modernists are the Nominalists. 


130 To the Gouncilmen of All Cities in Germany 

consider that I am not seeking my own advantage, but only 
the welfare and salvation of all Germany, Even if I were a 
fool and had hit upon a good idea, certainly no wise man 
should think it a disgrace to follow me. And if I were a 
very Turk and a heathen, and my plan were nevertheless seen 
to benefit not myself but the Christians, they ought not in 
fairness to spurn my offer. It has happened before that a 
fool gave better counsel than a whole council of wise men. 
