oA 
AN 


\ 


’ 


OY 
¥ 


AY 


N 


AK Ay 


ANN 
WANN \ 


ANY 


S\\ 


SH 


AK 
AS 


y 


\ nye 
NN \\) 
rm \ 


NN Wee 
oo “" Y \N \ 
RAS 


. a “ at er, 
\ A: 
a haa 
SS aN 


oy 


AN 


\\ 


AS 


\ 


\y 


oy 


Wa 
VA 


N \' Ww 


‘ 
is Ky 


ye 


ant} 


oun) 


KS 


a > 
< 
NN. 


AY 


‘ 


NG Ate De 


AY 
Powe 


\i 


oe 


\ 


Ny 


\\ 
R AN! NR 
Ny \\ 


Coe: 
BS 2 
’ 


SAAN 


) 


N 


sah 


iK 


yah 
Ry 


) 


Y 


a 


wy 


<o 
\ 


3 .) 


ran 


A\s \ 


NYS 


> 


we oa 


ose re oe pe 


N Y 
“NY 


\ 


OVA 
~ 


uit 
nm 
y 


My 


NK 


AK 
AY 


A) 


WA 


\ \ 
oS 
» Ky, Se 


WFD Ly 

Zi 

Z LG 
ties) 


ON. 
OHH 
MELANC 

Lip 

Pui 


{a Fed a 


PHILIP MELANCHTHON. 


BY 


Rev. JOSEPH|STUMP, A.M., 


Pastor of Grace Evangelical Lutheran Church, Phillipsburg, N. J. 


WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY 


Rive Gots PIbKRR, sD, 
Professor of Church History in the Lutheran Theological Seminary in 


Philadelphia. 
Property of 
x 3 
CBP 
aS Please return to 


ILLUSTRATED. 


Graduate Theological 
Union Library 
Pol Gober Ble eS FENG} El OvUIS Ke: 


. READING, PA, NEW YORK, 
1897. 


Coprrient, 1897, by A. BENDEL. 


PACIFIC LUTHERAW 
THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY 
THE LIBRARY 


A 
ae} 


PREFACE. 


The life of so distinguished a servant of God as Me- 
lanchthon deserves to be better known to the general 
reader than it actually is. In the great Reformation 
of the sixteenth century, his work stands second to 
that of Luther alone. Yet his life is comparatively 
unknown to many intelligent Christians. 

In view of the approaching four hundredth anni- 
versary of Melanchthon’s birth, this humble tribute to 
his memory is respectfully offered to the public. It is 
the design of these pages, by the presentation of the 
known facts in Melanchthon’s career and of suitable 
extracts from his writings, to give a truthful picture 
of his life, character and work. In the preparation of 
this book, the author has made use of a number of 
biographies of Melanchthon by German authors, and 
of such other sources of information as were accessi- 
ble to him. His aim has been to prepare a brief but 
sufficiently comprehensive life of Melanchthon, ‘in 
such a form as would interest the people. To what 
extent he has succeeded in his undertaking, others 
must judge. 

(v) 
5108 


vil PREFACE. 


That these pages may, in some measure at least, ac- 
complish their purpose, and make the Christian reader 
more familiar with the work and merit of the man of 
God whom they endeavor to portray, is the sincere 


wish of 
Tur AUTHOR. 


“CONTENTS. , 


PAGE 
LNTRODUCTION IS ole komen nos ts uke ori chee Seneca 1X 
CHAPTER I. 
ELIS SB UR THAN a ARN TA GHICN Sey aoe eo ROe Ardea Ta) Mentobifertevrcistea seri 11 
CHAPTER II. 
His CHILD HOODIEMGr eas oak M RLS teaicl asda! wirismeona Tents 14 
CHAPTER III. 
PAE MU UN DV EROMDY ee nalts. ty Me ae eee lets niche) “cj cs! vs 17 
CHAPTER IV. 
Tue CaLL AND REMOVAL TO WITTENBERG ....-.-.:. 21 
CHAPTER V. 
PA VAT DON Gt Souler tae tw OP Metres Pe AONE eure cc tly. Mair Sekt obit st ie 25 
CHAPTER VI. 
WAR Vs CONE TOTS at rimcute eat aueiin.< ene calm ct GaMtcey ts aia al ime e 32 
CHAPTER VII. 
His MARRIAGE AND Domestic Lire...) 6. ee ee Al 


CHAPTER IVIL 
MELANCHTHON DURING LUTHER’S ABSENCE FROM WITTENBERG. 50 


CHAPTER IX. 
New Larnors—A Visit To BRETTEN—MELANCHTHON AND 


ERASIUGU ERAN rely ipa SRTAELS Comite fate cl oh aber iG, nee Vhaweld va 58 
CHAPTER X. Sie, 
Tuer Peasants’ War—LurHeEer’s MArriAGE—THE SAxon 
AVAIRT ASTON cel sy ra emia Mere UE  Abahcamernn stra 76 
CHAPTER XL 
THE Seconp Drier or SPEYER—THE MARBURG CoLLoquy. . 87 
CHAPTER XII. 
EME InT OAD GESBURGiten Cea ie eel act aie a allo. levhen fs 94 


CHAPTER XIII. 


THE ScHMALCALD LeEAGUE—THE Renicious PEAcE or Nv- 
REMBERG—INVITED TO FRANCE AND ENGLAND .... .- 1G2- 


vill CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER XIV. 

Tue WITTENBERG Form oF ConcoRD—JOURNEY TO TUEBIN- 

GEN—ACCUSED OF HerEsy . 2 
CHAPTER XV. 

Tur ConVENTION AT SCHMALCALD—ATTACKS UPON MELANCH- 

THON . Seat tints fare 
CHAPTER XVI. 

Tur FRANKFORT SuspENSION—LABORS IN Ducat Saxony AND 
BRANDENBURG—SECOND CONVENTION AT ScHMALCALD— 
Tor LANDGRAVE’s BigAMyY—MELANCHTHON AT DrarH’s 
Door .« 


CHAPTER XVII. 
Tue Rexticious Cottoguy at WormMs—THE Drier at RATISBON. 
CHAPTER XVIII. 
Tue Bishopric or NAUMBERG—THE REFORMATION AT Co- 
LOGNE—A YEAR OF SUFFERING FOR MELANCHTHON .- 
CHAPTER XIX. 
Tae Dirr ar Worms, 1545—Tue Dier ar Rarispon, 1546— 
LurHer’s DratH . PAA Re Bie 
CHAPTER XX. 
Tur ScHMALCALD WAR—THE DissoLutTION AND RESTORATION 
OF THE UNIVERSITY . Oy ee oe 
CHAPTER XXI. 
Tuer AuasBpurG IntERIM—THE Lerezia INreRIM—CONTROVER- 
SITES. Set eae ee 
CHAPTER XXII. 
THE OsIANDRIAN AND MAJsoristic ConTROVERSIES—THE Rer- 
LIGIouS PEACE OF AUGSBURG. ..... 
CHAPTER XXIII. 
Tur Crypro-CaLvINistic CONTROVERSY—NEGOTIATIONS WITH 
FLactus ea ae ces eit S 
CHAPTER XXIV. 
Tur RELIGIous CONFERENCE AT WORMS . 
CHAPTER XXV. 
Last YEARS AND DEATH . Pa eer ee 
CHAPTER XXVI. 
His, CHARACTBR AND SHRVIOMS he, 1s nus ss | seen 


PAGE 


132 


140 


180 


190 


198 


219 


263 


INTRODUCTION. 


Tue approaching quarto-centennial of the birth of 
Philip Melanchthon will not fail to attract attention to 
the career of this remarkable man. Owing to the 
dearth of popular biographies of Melanchthon in the 
English language, Dr. Krotel’s translation of Ledder- 
hose being out of print, the author of the following 
sketch herewith presents to those who may take an 
interest in the subject a clear, succinct account of the 
principal events in Melanchthon’s checkered course. 
He tells the story in a straightforward way, without 
circumlocution or attempt at rhetorical flourish. Full 
justice is done to the eminent services of the gifted 
Reformer, with an evident desire to present his con- 
duct in the best possible light. While the tone of the 
presentation is of an apologetic nature in regard to in- 
cidents along the line which invite criticism of Me- 
lanchthon’s conduct, discussion of those points is not 
evaded, and there is no attempt to cover up the weak- 
ness of the great scholar. Of course, it was out of the 
question in a book of limited compass to enter into a 
very detailed account of every individual transaction 


in which Melanchthon shared.’ At the same time, 
(ix ) 


x INTRODUCTION. 


we feel certain that no important element has been en- 
tirely overlooked. 

Aside from Melanchthon’s part in the history of 
the Reformation period,-the most important epoch 
of Christianity since the time of the Apostles, he 
claims consideration on the side of classical edu- 
cation. His influence as an educator, which won 
for him ‘the well-known title of “Preceptor Ger- 
mani,” was not confined to his native land, as may be 
judged from the remark of Hallam, in his “ History 
of Literature,” that he became “far above all others, 
the founder of general learning throughout Europe.” 
No one appreciated the services of Melanchthon in 
the cause of the Reformation more than Dr. Martin 
Luther, and it is to Luther’s credit, that he treated 
Melanchthon with uniform consideration. One would 
fain say the same of Melanchthon’s attitude toward 
Luther. 

Melanchthon’s weakness was overruled for good. 
His shoulders were not equal to some of the burdens 
imposed upon them. His good, sound work has sur- 
vived. It is to be hoped that these pages will aid in 
promoting the study not only of the Life of Melanch- 
thon, but of the whole period in which the Gospel of 
our Lord Jesus Christ was restored to its normal and 


proper position in the Church. 
G. F. Spreker. 


DEE 


OF 


PHIEIP MEEANCHTHON. 


CHALE TE Rawk 
HIS BIRTH AND PARENTAGE. 


AST from the city of Carlsruhe, in the Grand- 
K duchy of Baden, Germany, lies the town of 
Bretten. In the times of the Reformation it 
belonged to the Palatinate of the Rhine, and boasted 
a population of three hundred families. At the present 
day its inhabitants hardly number more than four 
thousand souls. But it enjoys the enviable distinction 
of being the birth-place of Philip Melanchthon. 

Near the end of the fifteenth century there dwelt in 
this humble town a young married couple by the 
name of George and Barbara Schwarzerd. They were 
in comfortable circumstances and stood high in the 
regard of the community. Of these parents, Philip 
Melanchthon was born on February 16, 1497. His 
family name therefore was Schwarzerd, which means 
“Black Earth.” It was afterwards changed, in con- 
formity with the custom which prevailed among the 


(11) 


12 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


learned men of the day, into its Greek equivalent, 
Melanchthon. 
Philip’s father was armorer to the Elector Philip of 


Home or MELANCHTHON AT BRETTEN. 


the Palatinate, and named his first-born son in honor 
of that ruler. He enjoyed a wide reputation for skill 
in his profession. He was entrusted with the manu- 
facture of armor for many princes atid even for the 
Emperor Maximilian. His Imperial Majesty was so 


HIS BIRTH AND PARENTAGE. 13 


well pleased with the perfect finish of one suit of this 
armor, that he bestowed upon its maker a coat of arms 
which was emblematic of his profession, and consisted 
of a lion sitting upon a shield and helmet, and hold- 
ing a pair of tongs and a hammer in his paws. 

George Schwarzerd was known as a just and pious 
man. No priest observed his hours of devotion more 
scrupulously. He arose every midnight and repeated, 
his prayers. He was free from gross sins and vices, 
and possessed the same gentle, amiable and peace- 
loving disposition which so largely characterized his 
illustrious son. He was not “ greedy of filthy lucre.” 
It is recorded of him, that he frequently charged less 
for his work than his customers would willingly have 
paid. He shared, however, the superstitions of his 
age; and when his son Philip was born, he consulted 
an astrologer to learn his child’s destiny. He was told 
that Philip would ‘at some time in his life be ship- 
wrecked on the Baltic Sea. 

Philip’s mother was the daughter of John Reuter, 
the Mayor of Bretten. She was pious, industrious, 
frugal, domestic in her habits, and an excellent house- 
wife. One of the proverbs which she was fond of 
quoting and which indicates her ideas of housekeep- 
ing ran thus: 


‘“ Whoever spends more 
Than his plow can restore, 
Will come to grief ; 
Perhaps, hang as a thief.’’* 


* “ Wer mehr will verzehren, 
Denn sein Pflug kann ernaehren, 
Der wird zuletzt verderben, 
Und yielleicht ani Galgen sterben.”’ 


14 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


But while she was a careful housewife and would by 
no means tolerate extravagance, she was kind to the 
sick and the poor, and never turned any one away 
hungry from her door. Her favorite reply to those 
who found fault with her extreme liberality was, 
« Almsgiving does not impoverish.” 

Besides Philip, this excellent couple was blessed 
with four other children; namely, Anna, born in 1499; 
George, in 1501; Margaret, in 1506; and Barbara, in 
1508. 


CHAP 'T Rie 


HIS CHILDHOOD. 1504-1509. 


the town school of Bretten. When he was only 

seven years of age, a contagious disease broke 
out in the community, and he was taken out of the 
school. His education, together with that of his brother 
George and his mother’s youngest brother, was there- 
upon entrusted to a private tutor, John Unger, whom 
Reuter engaged by the advice of the learned John 
Reuchlin, Philip’s great uncle. Unger was thorough 
in his instructions, and understood how to win the affec- 
tions and respect of his pupils. Melanchthon afterward 
spoke very highly of him, and declared: “He made 
me a grammarian. He was an excellent man; he 
loved me as a son and I loved him as a father; and we 
shall soon, I hope, meet in heaven.” 


ITTLE PHILIP received his first instruction in 


HIS CHILDHOOD. ins 


_only learned easily, but possessed the far rarer power 
of retaining all that he had learned. He was gentle 
and amiable in his intercourse with his companions, so 
that his exceptional gifts excited not._so much their 
envy, as their admiration. The other powers of his 

“mind were as extraordinary as his memory. When 
educated foreigners came to town, as they frequently 
did, his grandfather took great delight in engaging 
him in disputes with them. Philip was nearly always 
the victor in these contests. He had inherited from 
his mother a lively temperament, and was at times 
easily irritated, but he was also quickly appeased. 
He early learned to control his temper, and sometimes 
applied to himself the adage : 


Philip possessed _a_remarkable-memory. He not 


“ He strikes and thrusts ; but when he’s done, 
He has not injured any one.’’* 


He was_afflicted with the habit of stammering, but 
took pains to overcome it, and in a great measure suc- 
ceeded. 

A double bereavément came to him early in life. 
His grandfather, Reuter, died October 16, 1507; and 
eleven days later his father also died. In a campaign 
against the Bavarians, in which he had taken part with 
the Elector in 1504, George Schwarzerd had drunk 
water from a poisoned well. From that time on, his 
health had steadily declined. When his end ap- 
proached, he called his children to his bedside and ad- 
monished them in these words: “I am dying; and I 


* © Fr haut und sticht 
Und thut doch niemand nichts.’’ 


16 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


desire that you remain one with the Christian Church, 
that you retain the knowledge of God and lose not 
your eternal salvation. I have seen great changes in 
the world, but there are greater ones in store. I pray 
God to protect and guide you, and I admonish you to 


JoHn RevucHuin. 


fear God and lead a Christian life. Obey Him and 
hold fast to that which is good.” 

Philip’s grandmother Reuter, a sister of the famous 
Reuchlin, now removed to the neighboring city of 
Pforzheim, her native place, and took him as well as 


AT THE UNIVERSITY. lhe 


his brother George with her, in order to enter them 
in the Latin school of that city. George Simler, the 
principal of this school, was the object of considerable 
curiosity and admiration because he was versed in 
Greek and Hebrew as well as in Latin. These were | 
still rare acquirements, because the revival of learn-' 
ing had just begun. He taught Greek privately to his 
ablest pupils only. Of these Philip was one; and 
here was laid the foundation of his subsequent ripe 
Greek scholarship. John Reuchlin took a great in- 
terest in his youthful relative, and-presented him with 
a Greek Grammar and a Greek-Latin lexicon of his 
own authorship. In order to show his appreciation of 
Reuchlin’s kindness, Philip wrote a Latin comedy, and 
with the aid of some of his schoolmates, performed it 
in Reuchlin’s presence. It was on this occasion, that 
his learned relative changed Philip’s surname into its 
Greek equivalent, Melanchthon. By Reuchlin’s ad- 
vice, Philip devoted himself assiduously to the study 
of the classics, and thus fitted himself for the career 
in which he subsequently earned the title, Preceptor | 
Germanie (Teacher of Germany). ees dae &/ 


7 


Cp aOAS Rails byehe Lek: 
AT THE UNIVERSITY. 1509-1516. 


ELANCHTHON spent about two years in the 
school at Pforzheim. He was then, although 
only thirteen years of age, far enough ad- 

vanced to enter the University of Heidelberg. He 
removed to that city and took up his residence in the 
2 


18 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


house of Professor Pallas Spangel. Among his fellow- 
students were Bucer and Brenz, both of whom after- 
wards distinguished themselves in the work of the 
Reformation. | 

While attending this university, Melanchthon con- 
tinued to devote himself to the study of the classics. 
But he had to do so privately, because the public in- 
structions dealt chiefly with the foolish speculations 
and useless subtleties of the scholastics. He himself, 
in later years, wrote concerning these student-days: 
“The youth were taught scarcely anything but the 
empty twaddle of the schoolmen and. some elements 
of natural philosophy. As I already understood how 
to make verses, I began, with a child’s craving for 
knowledge, to read the (newer) poets and to study, in 
connection with them, the histories and fables of which 
they treated. This practice gradually led me to the 
study of the ancient classics.” His attainments in the 
Greek language soon procured for him great respect 
both from students and professors. One of the latter, 
who himself was ignorant of Greek, one day came 
across a knotty question whose solution required a 
knowledge of that language. In his dilemma, he 
asked, ‘“‘ Where will I find a Grecian?” In reply the 
whole class cried out, “ Melanchthon! Melanchthon!” 
In spite of his extreme youthfulness, he was entrusted 
with the instruction of the two young sons of the 
Count of Loewenstein. The preparations which he 
made for their lessons, he carefully noted down, and 
these notes formed the basis of the Greek grammar 
which he subsequently published. 

On the tenth day of June, 1511, he received the 


AT THE UNIVERSITY. 19 


degree of Bachelor of Arts. Soon afterwards he ap- 
plied for the Master’s degree, but was refused, be- 
cause, although he possessed the required qualifica- 
tions, “he was still too young and of too childish an 
appearance.” He was greatly pained by this refusal. 
For this reason, together with the additional consid- 
eration, that the climate of the neighborhood did not 
agree with him, he weneedt his way, in the fall of 
1512, to the University of Tuebingen. A somewhat 
freer and more scientific spirit prevailed here, and gave 
a wider scope to his talents. 

Melanchthon continued here the diligent study of 
the classics. He also applied himself to Hebrew. 
Indeed, his craving for knowledge was so intense and 
his facility in learning so great, that he took up many 
other branches of study. He applied himself to 
philosophy and jurisprudence under his former teacher, 

_Simler, who was now professor at this university. He 
paid attention also’to astronomy and mathematics, and 
even to medicine. In 1514 he finished his philosophi- 
cal course and obtained the Master’s degree. He was 
then employed as private tutor at the university. 
About this time, he began to turn his attention to 
theology. But in this, as in most of his other studies, 
he was largely dependent on his own private efforts. 
The public lectures on theology were occupied almost 
solely with the traditions of the church and the empty 
subtleties of the schoolmen. The Bible was not taught 
atall. Melanchthon, however, privately applied himself 


=. 


. to the. study of the Scriptures and the ancient Church— 
Fathers. He carried a copy of the Bible with him con- 
stantly. The studies which he thus pursued were of 


20 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


great advantage to himself and Luther in after years, 
when they engaged in conflict with the enemies of the 
Reformation. Te carried his Bible with him to church, 
and ran some risk of being regarded as a heretic be- 
cause he spent his time in reading the Scriptures, in- 
stead of paying attention to the vain ceremonies and 
empty babblings which occupied the minds of the 
others. 

During his residence at Tuebingen, he was engaged 
ane in literary labors. . He corrected proof sheets for 
the publisher, Thomas Anshelm, published an edition 


ae 


of Terence and a Greek . grammar, and so remodeled 
and improved the Chironicon, or or Universal History, by 
‘John Nauclerus, who had formerly been rector of the 
university, that it soon became one of the most useful 
and widely-read historical works of the age. He took 
an active part, also, with Reuchlin, in contending 
against the Dominican monks of Cologne, who, in their 
blind fanaticism, insisted on the burning of all Jewish 
books and documents. 

Melanchthon remained at Tuebingen five years. 
By this time, although he was scarcely twenty-one 
years of age and appeared to be still younger than he 
really was, he had acquired a wide reputation by his 
scholarly attainments. In the year 1516 the learned 


“Erasmus of Rotterdam public ly said of him: “ What 
promise does not this Philip Melanchthon, a youth, as _ 
yet, and almost a boy, give of himself! He is equally 
at home in both languages [Greek and Latin]. What 
acuteness of invention, what purity of diction, what a 
memory for recondite matters, what extensive reading, 
what delicate grace and noble talents he displays!” 


THE CALL AND REMOVAL TO WITTENBERG. 21 


And in a letter to Oecolampadius he wrote: “Of 
Melanchthon I entertain the most distinguished and 
splendid expectations. God grant that this young 
man may long survive us. He will entirely eclipse 
Erasmus.” J/2G9 


CHAPTER. IV. 


THE CALL AND REMOVAL TO WITTENBERG. 1518. 


WIDER field of usefulness, more suited to a 
mind of such extensive learning and compre- 
hensive grasp, was now opened to Melanch- 

thon. / He had already been invited to the University 
of Ingolstadt} But by Reuchlin’s advice he had de- 
clined to go. The bigoted spirit which prevailed there | 
would have imposed an intolerable restraint upon 
the progressive spirit of Melanchthon. _A call now 
came to him, however, from a field w here he would be _ 
Beanccled by the scholasticism of the Middle Ages. 

“Tt was a call to a professorship in the new University 
of Wittenberg. 

This institution was one of the youngest universities 
in Germany. It had been founded as recently as 
1502, by Frederick the Wise, Elector of Saxony; but 
its faculty consisted of some of the most learned and 
enlightened men of the day. At this time its reputa- 
tion extended all over Europe; for it numbered among 
its professors, Dr. Martin Luther. Only a short time 
before this, that man of God had nailed to the church 


Es 


Tips LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


he NY 
ip ‘i t 

c GF wy 
Wy fi 


yy 

\ Gi 
! 

pM 


Wt 
aN 


\ 


KE = 
mara 


A 


Exrecror Freperick III. or Saxony. 


THE CALL AND REMOVAL TO WITTENBERG. 28 


door at Wittenberg his famous ninety-five theses against 
the sale of indulgences, and declared his readiness to 
defend them against any and‘all comers. The news 
of his daring act had spread jlike wild-fire, and Witten- 
berg had become famous. 

The call to this university gave to Melanchthon an 
opportunity to identify himself with the movement to. 
free_mankind from the corruption, ignorance, and _ 

err we misrule. He accepted the call. It 
eame to him through Reuchlin, to whom the Elector 
of Saxony had applied for a competent professor of 
Greek and Hebrew, and who, in recommending een 
lanchthon, had said of him, “I know of no one among \ 
the Germans who excels him, except Erasmus of Rot- \ 
terdam, and he is an otades + In notifying Me- ) 
lanchthon of his call to Wittenberg, Reuchlin wrote to 
him in these words: “I do not intend to address you 
in poetical language, but in the words of that true 
promise of God which he gave to the faithful Abra- 
ham, ‘Get thee out of thy country and from thy kin- 
dred and from thy father’s house, into a land that I 
will show thee; and I will make of thee a great 
nation, and I will bless thee and make thy name great; 
and thou shalt be a blessing.’ This my spirit tells 
me, and this I hope of thee, my Philip, my handiwork 
and my consolation. Go, then, cheerfully and joyfully. 
Be not dismayed; be no woman, but a man. No 
prophet is without honor, save in his own country.” 

Melanchthon immediately set out for his new field 
of labor. He paid a farewell visit to his relatives at 
Bretten and Pforzheim, visited Reuchlin at Stuttgart, 
and proceeded to Augsburg, where the Imperial Diet 


24 


LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


si 


AUGSBURG. 


AT WITTENBERG. 25 


was in session. Here he was presented to the Elector, 
and made the acquaintance of George Spalatin, the 
Saxon Court-chaplain. From Augsburg he proceeded 
to Nuremberg, where he visited the celebrated states- 
man, Pirkheimer, passed through Leipzig, where he 
was entertained by the university, and arrived at Wit- 
tenberg, August 25, 1518, having resolutely declined 
a call to Leipzig, as well as a second call to the Uni- 
versity of Ingolstadt. The University of Tuebingen 
scarcely realized the great loss which it sustained by 
his removal. Simler alone appreciated it, and de- 
clared: “ Although there are learned men here, none 
of them are sufficiently learned to appreciate the teach- 
ing of this man who has been called away, and who is 
now about to depart.” But God had a work for Me- 
lanchthon to do, and that work was to be done at Wit- 
tenberg. 


CHAPTER V. 
AT WITTENBERG. 


HE personal appearance of Melanchthon was 
little calculated to confirm the expectations 
raised by the reputation which had preceded 

him. He was only twenty-one years of age and looked 
very boyish. His stature was small, his frame delicate, 
his manner timid and diffident. When he walked he 
held one shoulder higher than the other, and when he 
spoke he drew his eyebrows together in a curious way, 
stammered in his utterance, and gesticulated nervously. 


26 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


Was. this the famous scholar whose praises Erasmus 
and Reuchlin had sung so loudly? Many of the Wit- 
tenbergers did not hesitate to give expression to their 
contempt of his insignificant appearance and timid 
air, and to question whether the university had made 
so great an acquisition after all in securing thé ser- 
vices of this callow-looking youth. But a careful and 
unprejudiced observer might have augured better 
things from his lofty brow, his clear blue eyes, and the 


Marker Puace At WITTENBERG. 


intelligence written on every feature of his face. 
Within this frail tenement of clay, there lodged a gi- 
gantic intellect and a noble soul, whose might and 
worth would soon become apparent even to these 
scoffers. 

Four days after his arrival the new professor deliv- 
ered his introductory lecture. His subject was, ‘“ The 
Improvement of Studies for the Youth.” It was a 
masterly effort, and he astonished his auditors by his 
able treatment of the subject. He dwelt on the neces- 


AT WITTENBERG. 27 


sity of going back to the original sources of knowl- 


edge in order to_separate_th the truth from the errors. 


with which, in the process of 1 time, it had become 
encrusted. To this end it was necessary, he said, 
thoroughly to master the Greek as well as the Latin 


language; and in no branch of study was this more 


necessary than in the domain—of—theology.. Chris- | 


tian doctrine was not to be drawn from the trans- 
‘lations and expositions of later times, but from the 
unadulterated source, the Holy Scriptures themselves 

Luther, who was present in the large audience which 
had assembled in the lecture-room, was highly de- 
lighted with what he heard. He was astonished by 
the learning, the comprehensive grasp, the reasoning 
power, and the beautiful diction, which Melanchthon’s 


discourse revealed; and at the same time, he was | 


gratified with the progressive but sound position which | 


the youthful professor had advanced. It can be 
readily conceived that he viewed with profoundest joy 


the prospect of possessing, in the religious struggle | 
upon which he had entered, the support of such a man | 


as Melanchthon. There was among his other co- 
laborers at Wittenberg no man from whom he might 
expect such powerful succor as that which the thor- 


ough philological training, the clear thought, and the | 
lucid language of Philip promised to give. If such a_ 


man as Melanchthon, equipped with the most exten- 


sive classical training, and the refined culture of an | 


Erasmus or a Reuchlin, delivered exegetical lectures 
upon the very text of Scripture, what a triumph the 
Gaspel must achieve ! 

Luther immediately wrote to his friend; thet court 


PRP mee N 


28 


LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


vant 
Ns 
‘ 


won 
MN 


| NY) 
: Ww ) ( At \\ i 4 t 7 Pe 
a — af Ae \" “db Ly 


Martin Luruer. 


\\\ 
\\} 
y / iM yy 

1, 


AT WITTENBERG. 29 


chaplain, George Spalatin, and expressed the gratifi- 
eation which he felt: ‘“‘Melanchthon,” he says, “on 
the fourth day after his arrival, delivered a most 
learned and elegant address, to the great joy and ad- 
miration of all who heard him. Henceforth he no 
longer needs any recommendation from you. We 
soon learned to look away from his external appear- 
ance; we consider ourselves most fortunate to possess 
him, and are astonished at his extraordinary gifts. 
See to it that you commend him most earnestly to our 
prince. I have no desire whatever for any other 
teacher of Greek as long as we can retain him. There 
is but one thing which I fear, and that is, that with 
his delicate constitution, our manner of living may 
not agree with him. Furthermore, I have learned 
that he has been called with too small a salary, so that 
the Leipzigers, who courted him before he came 
among us, already flatter themselves that they will be 
able to lure him away.” Two days later he wrote 
to the same friend: “I most heartily commend Philip 
to you. He is a perfect Grecian, a thorough scholar, 
friendly and amiable. His lecture-room is crowded, 
and he has caused all the theologians of the upper, 
middle, and lower classes, to apply themselves to the 
study of Greek.” 

In their subsequent personal intercourse, Luther 
and Melanchthon were daily drawn into a closer 
friendship and fuller mutual esteem. . Melanchthon 
was filled with admiration for the clear, forceful intel- 
lect, the deep, sincere piety, and the heroic spirit of 
Luther; while the great Reformer on the other hand 
was charmed by Melanchthon’s amiable disposition, 


30 


WM 
li fy) 


/ i i} 


1) Wi 


LIFE 


OF MELANCHTHON, 


Hidde ld 


G. SPALATIN, 


AT WITTENBERG. 31 


his gentle nature, and the grace and eloquence with 
which he employed his vast learning. Each found 
elements of character in the other which he himself 
lacked ; their natures supplemented each other. Both 
were laboring with the same high and unselfish aim, 
and both rejoiced that the Providence of God had 
brought them into the same field, and permitted them 
to labor side by side. i 

With the coming of Melanchthon, a new era of 
prosperity dawned upon the University of Wittenberg. 
In the year 1517 there had been no more than two 
hundred students enrolled; but now they began to 
pour in from all parts of Germany and other countries 
of Europe, mainly for the purpose of attending Me- 
lanchthon’s lectures)* The new manner of teaching 
which he introduced, the charm which his pleasing 
address and elegant culture threw over every field of 
research, the attention he bestowed upon the study of 
the classics, and the habits of clear, well-ordered 
thinking which he inculeated, filled the students with 
an enthusiasm and a zeal for study which can be ap- 
preciated only when we bear in mind the dry, diffuse, 
and barren methods of the scholastics which had pre- 
vailed so long. The number of his auditors con- 
stantly increased till they reached a thousand and 
even two thousand or more. Among them were 
prinees, counts, barons and other members of the no- 
bility, who came to imbibe learning at the feet of this 
youthful professor. 

In his introductory address, Melanchthon had an- 
nounced that he would deliver lectures upon the 
poems of Homer and the Epistle of St. Paul to Titus. 


oe LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


As copies of Erasmus’s edition of the Greek New Tes- 
tament were scarce at Wittenberg, he had a special 
edition of the Epistle to Titus printed for the use of 
his students. But in addition to the lectures which 
he had- announced, he also undertook, for the present, 
to give instruction in Hebrew. As his proficiency in _ 
this language was by no means equal to that which he 
possessed in Greek, he labored almost day and night 
to perfect his knowledge of it. He granted himself 
no respite. He generally began to work at two o’clock 
in the morning. He delivered two lectures every 
forenoon at the university, and the rest of his long 
working day was given up wholly to his studies, his 
literary labors, and his constantly increasing corre- 
spondence. When the Elector heard that his new 
professor was likely to kill himself by hard work, he 
sent him orders to take better care of himself. But 
there is no evidence on hand to prove that Melanch- 
thon obeyed the orders. He was simply indefatigable. 


CHAP TE Rev LE 
EARLY CONFLICTS. 


EANWHILE the Reformation was making 
rapid progress. The efforts of Rome to 
bring Luther to silence failed. He was 

neither daunted by her threats nor beguiled by her 
persuasions, but continued to teach’ and preach the 
truth of the Gospel. 


EARLY CONFLICTS. 33 


The vain-glorious Dr. Eck now proposed the hold- 
ing of a public disputation on the doctrines which 
Luther advanced. The challenge was addressed to 
Carlstadt but was meant in reality for Luther. It was 
accepted. The disputation was opened at Leipzig on 
June 27, 1519, and lasted for three weeks. During 


this period, Eck disputed first with Carlstadt on the 
doctrine of the free will, and then with Luther on the 
pope’s primacy, repentance, indulgences, and purga- 
tory. 

Melanchthon, who had obtained permission from 
the Elector to accompany Luther, did not take any 
active part in the discussion, but was an interested 
spectator. It is related, however, that in the course 


of the dispute he occasionally suggested to the Witten- 
3 


34 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


berg theologians such replies to the voluble Eck, as 
his extensive reading and ready intellect furnished. 
Eck was not at all pleased that this boyish-looking 
professor should aid his adversaries in laying bare his 
sophistrigs and confuting his arguments; and he called 
out to Melanchthon, “ Be quiet, Philip; attend to your 


upon Melanchthon’s future life. Not only did it 
openly array him upon the side of Luther, but it 
turned his studies more decidedly in the direction of 
theology Without any such intention on his part, it 
also involved him shortly afterwards in a conflict with 
Eek. Melanchthon had written to Gicolampadius an 
account of the disputation and exposed some of the 
weak points in Eck’s arguments. This letter Me- 
lanchthon published. Although it acknowledged that 
Ecek’s natural gifts had excited the admiration of his 
opponents, that vain man took such offense at some 
passages in it, that he immediately published a pam- 
phlet against the “Wittenberg grammarian,” as he 
termed Melanchthon, and asserted that Melanchthon 
understood Greek, to be sure, but was utterly incom- 
petent to judge of matters of faith, and was therefore 
no proper person for a theologian to argue with. He 
called Melanchthon contemptuous names, and _at- 
tempted to belittle him in the eyes of the public. 

In reply to this rude attack, Melanchthon published 
a pamphlet, in which, with exquisite urbanity, he ex- 
plained to Eck that the Church Fathers, whom the 
latter regarded as infallible authority, were by no 
means such an authority, and defined the principles 


EARLY CONFLICTS. 35 


of sound hermeneutics* in so able a manner, that Eek 
plainly perceived that he had made a mistake in wan- 
tonly crossing swords with so skilful an antagonist. 
To the abuse which Eck had seen fit to heap upon 
him, he replied that, “if Eek did not consider him 
worthy to treat of important theological questions, he 
ought at least be willing to permit Christians to con- 
verse on religious topics and allow Melanchthon the 
privilege of feeding his soul upon them ; that it would 
have been far wiser in Eck to encourage the ‘little’ 
people to read the Scriptures and kindly instruet them 
if they erred, than to seek to frighten them by such 
utterances.” Luther could by no means bring him- 
selt to regard the matter as lightly as Melanchthon 
did. He became very indignant at Eck’s conduct, and 
gave vent to his feelings in a letter which he addressed 
to Spalatin about this time: “ Philip’s opinion and 
judgment are worth more to me than that of many 
thousand dirty Ecks; and I am not ashamed, although 
I am a Master of Arts, Philosophy and Theology, and 
am adorned with almost all the titles which Eck pos- 
sesses, to abandon my opinion, if it disagrees with that 
of this grammarian. I have frequently done so, and 
do so still, because of the noble gifts which God, in 
his bounteous grace, has poured into this frail earthen 
vessel which Eck affects to despise. I do not praise 
Philip; he is a creature of God, nothing more; but I 
honor God’s work in him.” 

The calm and forcible defense which Melanchthon 
published was so well received by all the enlightened 


gS = 


* The science of interpreting Scripture. | 


36 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON, 


scholars of Europe that Eck, who began to be attacked 
on other sides also, thought it advisable to beat a re- 
treat and retire into Italy. Melanchthon, almost 
against his will, was made Bachelor of Theology on 
September 19, 1519, on account of his extraordinary 
theological attainments, and was received into the 
theological faculty of the university. But he could 
never be prevailed upon to accept the degree of Doc- 
tor of Theology, because he did not want to assume 
the responsibility which he believed doing so would 
involve. Those who knew him, however, agreed with 
Luther when he declared: “What we know of the 
sciences and true philosophy we have to thank Philip 
for. It is true, he is only a Master of Arts, but he is 
a Doctor above all Doctors.” 

From this time onward, Biblical exegesis became 
his favorite study. In his lectures to the students, he 
expounded during this year not only the Epistle to the 
Romans and the Gospel of Matthew, but also some of 
the books of the Old Testament. He was especially 
fond, however, of the writings of St. Paul. Luther, 
himself, sometimes appeared among his auditors, and 
declared thatno one had ever better exhibited the mean- 
ing of St. Paul’s writings than this youthful professor. 

Shortly after this, Melanchthon’s celebrated Loci 

communes appeared in print. He had presented in 
his lectures at the university the principal truths con- 
tained in the writings of St. Paul, and the students 
were so well pleased with them, that they had them 
published. Naturally, many imperfections existed in 
the work thus issued, and therefore, Melanchthon re- 
vised and enlarged it, and published it himself in the 


EARLY CONFLICTS. 37 


year 1521. This work was the first system of the- 
ology of the evangelical Church and met with an ex- 
tensive demand. Luther was delighted with it, and 
declared that it was not only worthy of immortality, 
but of being received into the canon of Seripture. The 
work passed through more than one hundred editions. 
It was translated into a number of other languages. 
It appeared even in Rome under a different name and 
title, and was eagerly read there until the Inquisition 
discovered the real name of the author. 

While Melanchthon was engaged in these various 
labors, his relations with Luther daily became more 
friendly and intimate. . In the fall of 1520 Melanch- 
thon wrote: “ Luther is too great, too wonderful for 
me to depict in words; as often as I regard him, 
he appears greater than before.” He looked up to 
Luther with a feeling that was greatly akin to awe, 
and could not cease wondering at his heroic spirit 
and conduct. Equally high was the esteem in which 
Luther. held Melanchthon. We will hardly be in- 
clined to agree with the assertion which he makes, 
but the words which he spoke at the time when 
Melanchthon presented the thesis for his degree cer- 
tainly express almost boundless admiration for his 
youthful friend: “This man,” he says, “will do as 
much as many Martins together, as a most powerful 
enemy of Satan and the scholastic theology.” To his 
friend Lange at Erfurt he wrote, about the same time, 
«This little Grecian excels me also in theology.” He 
even went so far as to imagine in 1520, that he was 
only meant to be the forerunner of Melanchthon in 
the work of the Reformation. 


38 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


It was not long till: Melanchthon had good occasion 
to use his pen in defense of his heroic friend. A very 
bitter publication against Luther appeared in Rome in 
1520 with the title, “To the Princes and People of 
Germany against Martin Luther, the Defamer of Ger- 
man Glory.” It was published under the fictitious 
name of Thomas Rhadinus. In February of the fol- 
lowing year, Melanchthon took up the defense of the 
slandered reformer, under the assumed name of Didy- 
mus Fayentinus. Among other things he says: “ We 
do not ask for pity or mercy, but strict investigation. 
Listen to nothing, ye princes, but to the commands of 
the Bible; think of nothing but your own dignity and 
the people’s welfare. Our cause is not of man but of 
Christ. If I defend Luther, it is because he has 
brought the Gospel to light again. . . . No false call- 
ing on the name of Christ or that of his Apostles, 
Peter and Paul, no threatenings or excommunications, 
should prevent you from doing your duty as Christian 
princes. Regard it rather as a privilege granted by 
God’s grace, that you are called upon, at this time, to 
see to it that the Gospel of salvation, which had been 
buried so long but now has begun to shine forth once 
more, shall not be buried again.” This reply bears 
noble testimony to his friendship for Luther, his full 
sympathy with the Reformation, and the possession 
of a moral courage which did not shrink from an open 
and strong expression of his convictions. It exerted 
a powerful influence upon the Reformation, and de- 
prived the Roman Church of much of the prestige 
which it had hitherto enjoyed, and of the reverence 
with which men had regarded it. 


EARLY CONFLICTS. 39 


Soon after this, Melanchthon was engaged in a 
second conflict in behalf of his friend. While Luther 
was absent at the Wartburg, the University of Paris, 
or the Sorbonne, as it was called, published a pamphlet 
against him, in which the assertion was made, that 
he ought rather to be burned than refuted by argu- 
ments. Luther, when he learned of it, took the mat- 
ter very calmly and said, “I have read the decree of 
the Parisian Sophists and rejoice from the heart over 
it. God would not have so smitten them with blind- 
ness, if he did not intend to put an end to their ty- 
ranny.” But Melanchthon was very indignant over 
the matter; and when Eck made haste to translate 
their decree into German in order to give it a wide 
circulation, he again entered the lists. He believed 
that their decree dared not be permitted to go unchal- 
lenged, because the theological faculty of the Sorbonne 
still possessed some of its ancient prestige and author- 
ity. The mild and peace-loving Melanchthon for once 
breaks out into bitter sarcasm. He professes himself 
to be “scarcely able to believe that such a writing 
should have emanated from Paris, where once the pious 
Gerson and other noble men of God lived and labored.” 
“« They bring,” he says, “no arguments to confute Luth- 
er, but ery out, ‘He is a heretic; let him be burned.’ 
What a genuine monkish argument this is, anyway!” 
“He finds himself,” he declares, “ obliged to give cre- 
dence to the ancient saying, that the French have no 
brains; for the Parisian theologians are in conflict with 
both the Holy Scriptures and the Church Fathers.” 

Shortly after this, there appeared an anonymous 
publication which is interesting because it shows the 


40 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


high esteem in which Melanchthon was held. The 
unknown author pretends to take the part of the theo- 
logians of Paris against Melanchthon, but in reality, 
satirizes them most unmercifully. He proceeds in be- 
half of the Sorbonne to give the marks by which it 
may be seen that Melanchthon could not possibly 
know anything of the truth. “The jirst mark,” he 
says, “is this, that he teaches Greek.” Hereupon, he 
purposely confuses the ancient Greeks with the 
modern Greek Church and asks, “ Ilow is it possible 
that the Greeks, who from time immemorial have been 
rebels, schismaties and heretics, should be good Romans 
and Christians? The second mark is this, that Me- 
lanchthon is hardly as yet twenty-four years old. 
Such a youth cannot help but be in error, and yet he 
ventures to write against such an ancient, great, and 
honorable university. It is a wonder that his High- 
ness, the Elector Frederick, who is esteemed to be 
wise, tolerates this foolish youth instead of locking 
him up until he becomes more prudent. Meanwhile, 
we ought to have compassion on his youth. The third 
mark is this, that he is acknowledged to be smaller 
than his master, Luther. How can as much learning 
be contained in his little body as in the great Sor- 
bonne? The fourth and most dreadful of all is this, 
that he is a layman, that he is not even tonsured. 
And yet it is said that he is a Bachelor of Theology, 
and delivers lectures upon the writings of the holy St. 
Paul, without wearing a monk’s cowl. Priests shall 
listen to laymen! A pupil shall instruct his masters, 
a youth his elders, and a Greek the Romans! O thou 
dreadful Wittenberg! Thou dost spoil all and make 


HIS MARRIAGE AND DOMESTIC LIFE. 41 


of the church a Babylon. And a final mark there is 
which is hardly credible. He is married! A layman 
who has a wife teaches Holy Scriptures among monks 
and clergy, in opposition to the papal decrees, which 
teach that no one who is married is able to serve God, 
and which forbid the priests to marry, so that they 
may be all the better able—to play dice! If only 
the Emperor Charles would destroy with fire and 
sword this Wittenberg, where so many dangerous in- 
novations in faith and manners are brought forward!” 


. 


CHAPTER Vik 
MELANCHTHON’S MARRIAGE AND DOMESTIC LIFE. 


HE studies and labors in which Melanchthon 
was engaged so engrossed his attention, that 
he showed no inclination to enter the state 

of matrimony. It was only when it was suggested to 
him by others that he thought of it at all, and then 
not by any means favorably. His friends in Witten- 
berg, and among them Luther in particular, were 
anxious that he should be married. His incessant 
labors were undermining his health; they feared he 
would break down, and argued that, if he were only 
married, his wife could compel him to take better care 
of himself, and that the responsibilities and cares in- 
separable from the blessed state of matrimony would 
oblige him to divert his attention sometimes from his 


42 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


intellectual pursuits, and to direct it to family affairs. 
Luther also hoped that, if he were married to some 
lady of Wittenberg, Melanchthon would be less likely 
to accept any of the calls which came to him so fre- 
quently from other universities. 

Perhaps it was Luther himself, therefore, who 
looked about for a suitable wife for his beloved Philip, 
and decided that Catherine Krapp, the daughter of 
the burgomaster of’ Wittenberg, was the one he was 
seeking. But it was easier to select a wife for Philip 
than to persuade him to take her. He would not 
listen to it for a long time. He was afraid that he 
would have to shorten his hours of study, and thus rob 
himself of his highest enjoyment; he feared that he 
would be troubled with visitors from the ranks of his 
wife’s relatives, and that much precious time would 
be wasted for him. Im short, he frowned upon the 
whole matter. Finally, however, he was persuaded to 
converse with the lady in question. Whether he was 
prevailed upon by the persuasions of his friends, or the 
subtle charms of Miss Catherine herself, who, it should 
be said, possessed a very sweet and amiable disposi- 
tion, is perhaps inquiring too curiously; but the fact 
is, he changed his mind and consented to be married. 
They were formally engaged on the eighteenth of 
August, 1520, and were married on the twenty-fifth 
of November following. 

The union into which they entered was a happy 
one. Melanchthon’s wife turned out to be a woman 
after his own heart, and he declared that he could not 
have wished himself a better one from heaven. She 
was pious, gentle, decorous, and a kind and consider- 


PACIFIC LUTHERAN 
THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY 


HIS MARRIAGE AND DOMESTIC LIFE. 43 


ate help-meet. She united in her person the very 
virtues in which Melanchthon most delighted. She 
was not without her faults, of course; but they were 
of such a kind that they did not concern or trouble 
him much. She carried her generosity to excess, and 
often gave to the poor what they needed badly enough 
themselves; she was inclined to attach too little im- 
portance to the preparation of the meals; and she 
manifested an undue solicitude for the health of her 
husband. But Melanchthon was guilty of excessive 
liberality himself, and little disposed to find fault with 
his better half for following his example; he was by 
no means fond of the pleasures of the table; and he 
never permitted his wife’s concern for his health to 
interfere with the performance of any duty or import- 
ant work. 

The first few months of his wedded life were not 
without their trials. His financial condition was any- 
thing but prosperous. He had managed to get along 
tolerably well on his salary of one hundred florins, as 
long as he was single. But he found it considerably 
more difficult to do so now that he was married and 
had to supply the wants of a household. He applied 
for an increase of salary, but failed to obtain it. The 
provision made for the support of the university had 
never been very large, and the elector was averse to 
levying greater taxes in order to increase the amount. 
He oceasionally presented Melanchthon with good 
things to eat, or with a piece of cloth for a coat, but 
granted no increase of salary. The fare in Melanch- 
thon’s house was, therefore, very simple, sometimes 
even meagre, But, as the days rolled on, he and his 


44 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


wife gradually accommodated themselves to their cir- 
cumstances and lived contentedly, even if not in great 


MELANCHTHON’s Home at WITTENBERG. 


plenty. Frequently Luther, who received no salary 
at all and still lived in his monk’s cell, called on them 
and shared their frugal repast. 


————ee 


HIS MARRIAGE AND DOMESTIC LIFE. 45 


Fortunately, in the year previous to his marriage, 
Melanchthon had taken into his house, as his “ famu- 
lus,” or servant, his countryman, John Koch. John, as 
he was familiarly called, was by no means an ordinary 
servant, but a sort of private secretary and steward 
combined. He was a well-educated man, whose opin- 
ion Melanchthon highly valued and often: consulted, 
and who rendered him valuable assistance in his liter- 
ary labors and correspondence. After Melanchthon’s 
marriage John became the presiding genius of his 
household, and but for him matters would often have 
gone badly enough. He took complete charge of the 
finances of the household and did most of the buying for 
it. While this arrangement was exceedingly fortunate 
for Melanchthon, it laid a heavy burden on John. The 
excessive liberality of master and mistress kept him 
involved in a perpetual struggle with the problem, how 
to make ends meet. 

It may be well at this point, and before we proceed 
to the further consideration of Melanchthon’s public 
career, to devote some space to the description of his 
domestic life. He resided in the first story of a house 
on College street. Naturally, considering the meagre- 
ness of his salary, the furniture of the house was 
scanty and plain. His own private room, or study, 
contained only a desk, several shelves with books, and 
a few leather-covered chairs. On the walls of the 
room there hung a few pictures and maps. At a later 
period he added a lounge, upon which he occasionally 
reclined to rest. 

The immense amount of work which Melanchthon 
performed was made possible only by a strict, system- 


46 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


atic disposal of his time. He rose regularly at two 
o’clock in the morning and began his labors. At seven 
the family gathered in the room adjoining the study, 
and family worship was held. Usually, John Koch read 
‘a chapter of the Bible, which Melanchthon briefly ex- 
plained and followed with a prayer. Then all sat 
down to the breakfast table and partook of the frugal 
fare. Melanchthon’s own breakfast consisted regu- 
larly of a cup of hot milk and abun. At halfpast 
seven he retired to his room and resumed his studies. 
From nine till eleven he was engaged in delivering his 
lectures at the university. The one hour of recrea- 
tion which he allowed himself was from eleven o’clock 
till noon. This he spent with his family; and while his 
wife was superintending the preparation of the dinner, 
he relieved her of the care of the children. At noon 
the family sat down to dinner. Melanchthon always 
ate sparingly. He cared little for meat, and declared 
he would find it easy to adopt the principles of the 
vegetarians. But he could never accustom himself to 
the Saxon style of cooking, and declared: “It is a 
great pity that in this miserable nest (Wittenberg) 
there is no proper food to be found. There is noth- 
ing good to be obtained; and if there ever does hap- 
pen to be anything good, it is spoiled in the cooking. 
Everything is barbarous.” This declaration was not 
meant as a reflection on the culinary talents of his 
wife, for whom he had the highest regard, but referred 
to the general style of preparing dishes which pre- 
vailed in that neighborhood. He missed also the good 
Rhenish wines of his native home and could never 
learn to like the wines of Wittenberg. He often jo- 


HIS MARRIAGE AND DOMESTIC LIFE. 47 


cosely quoted the words of his friend, Peter Mosella- 
nus, about the grapes of the neighborhood: “The 
finest vinegar grows on yonder hills.” 

When dinner was over, he retired again to his study. 
He also received visitors during the afternoon. These 
robbed him of a great deal of time and often tried 
his patience sorely. They came upon all kinds of er- 
rands. Some wanted letters of introduction to distin- 
guished personages, others wanted testimonials of 
character, others came to seek his advice, and still 
others brought their writings and asked him to look 
through them, correct them, and write a commenda- 
tory preface. Sometimes they brought materials for 
a learned dissertation and asked him to write it out 
in good form for them, with the understanding that it 
should be published under their name. Manuscripts 
were often sent to him for his correction and approval, 
- with a request to supply them with an introduction 
and have them published for the authors. Sometimes 
he completely rewrote such manuscripts and let them 
appear under the name of others. Even many of the 
lectures delivered by the professors at the University 
of Wittenberg were written by him. It seems incred- 
ible, but is related as a fact, that the bulk of all that 
was written, publicly spoken, or printed at Wittenberg, 
owed its form or material to the hand and brain of 
Melanchthon. Not only theologians, but philosophers 
and philologists, and even jurists and physicians, bor- 
rowed his pen. For, saving only Erasmus, this won- 
derful man had scarcely a peer in any branch of learn- 
ing. In the goodness of his heart he found it almost 
impossible to refuse any request made of him, and as 


48 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


far as it lay within his power he accommodated all 
who sought his aid or advice. It is really marvellous 
what an amount of work this intellectual giant accom- 
plished, in spite of his delicate physical organization 
and frequent illness. 

Amid such various labors and employments, Me- 
lanchthon’s afternoon passed away. For supper he 
generally ate little, if anything, but continued at his 
labors until nine o’clock, which was his hour for retir- 
ing. He made itarule to go to bed at this hour. He 
believed it was essential to good health to retire early. 
But he was evidently just as firm a believer in early 
rising, and, as we have seen, was regularly found at 
his desk again at two o’clock in the morning. It is 
astonishing that so frail a body could withstand the 
strain of such unremitting toil and such short periods 
of repose. 

Melanchthon was quite as liberal with his purse as 
with his mental talents; only he had not so much to 
bestow. Out of the small salary which he received 
he gave away till it was all gone; and when the cash 
was exhausted, he supplied himself with it for new 
gifts by taking to the merchants silver or golden cups 
which had been presented to him. Naturally those 
‘to whom he gave were often unworthy. But even if 
he discovered this, he was as ready as usual to give to 
the next one who applied for aid. This excessive lib- 
erality often put himself and his family into sore 
straits, and, even when the faithful John racked his 
brain to the uttermost for some way to provide for 
their needs, they would frequently have suffered want, 
if the elector and others had not sent them things to 


HIS MARRIAGE AND DOMESTIC LIFE. 49 


eat and to wear. It was useless for people to give Me- 
lanchthon presents of money. In a very short time, 
he had given it all away again. His son-in-law, Dr. 
Peucer, at a later period, spoke very much to the 
point when he said to Duke Albert of Prussia, who out 
of gratitude was about to give Melanchthon a present 
of money: “I wish that nobody would give my 
father-in-law money. It helps neither him nor his chil- 
dren. He gives it away at once. I see well enough 
how it goes when he receives his salary; he gives until 
there is not a farthing left. What is lacking then for 
the household expenses, I must furnish. But this is 
not caleulated to make either of us rich.” This latter 
aspect of the case, however, did not trouble Melanch- 
thon. “I have poverty,” he said, “as the compan- 
ion of my philosophy; but I bear it willingly.” 
Melanchthon and his wife had four children: Anna, 
Philip, George, and Magdalen. George died in infancy. 
Anna, who was Melanchthon’s favorite child, was mar- 
ried to George Sabinus, a talented man, but one who 
proved to be wholly unworthy of her, and who filled 
her and her father’s heart with bitter grief. Anna 
died at the early age of twenty-three. The love which 
her father had borne her he transferred to her chil- 
dren, whom he took into his own family. His son 
Philip, though delicate in infancy, lived to the age of 
eighty years. He possessed none of the eminent tal- 
ents of his father, but was a good man, and, when very 
old, wrote in an album, “I have a desire to depart and 
be with Christ.” Magdalen was married to the worthy 
Dr. Caspar Peucer, and their union was a happy one. 


4 


50 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


CHAPTER.Y Iii 


MELANCHTHON DURING LUTHER’S ABSENCE FROM WIT- 
TENBERG. 1521-1522. 


EANWHILE the great spiritual struggle 
which was Dakine the very foundations of 
society was growing fiercer. It was rapidly 

nearing that stage when a reconciliation between the 
reformers and the papal authorities would become im- 
possible In the fall of the year 1520 Eck returned 
‘from Rome with a bull of excommunication against 
Luther and his adherents. Luther replied by publish- 
ing a pamphlet and burning the bull in the presence 
of a great concourse of students and professors. The 
die was cast; henceforth men had to choose between 
truth and falsehood, Luther and the pope. Melanch- 
thon did not hesitate an instant, but placed himself 
unreservedly upon the side of his friend. 

Early in the year 1521 the Imperial Diet assembled 
at Worms, and Luther was summoned to appear before 
it. The whole world knows of the heroic stand which 

“he took there for truth and right, his refusal to recant 
unless convinced from the Holy Scriptures that he was 
wrong, and the immortal words which he uttered, 
«Here I stand, I cannot do otherwise; God help me. 
Amen.” But after this unequivocal declaration, Lu- 
ther’s life was no longer safe; and the elector, reason- 
ing that captivity at the hands of friends was better 
than imprisonment and perhaps death at the hands of 


MELANCHTHON DURING LUTHER’S ABSENCE, 51 


Tue BuRNING OF THE PAPAL BULL, 


52 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


foes, had the intrepid monk carried off and concealed 
in the Wartburg. 

During this absence of Luther from Wittenberg, 
which lasted almost a year, the burden of directing 
the movements of the Reformation fell upon the youth- 
ful shoulders of Melanchthon. But however eminent 
his talents, this young professor lacked the qualities 
which were necessary to cope successfully with the 
seditious spirits which soon forced themselves to the 
front. No one was more conscious of this fact than 
he was himself; and when he received the tidings of 
Luther’s sudden disappearance he was filled with dis- 
may, not only at the thought of the dangers to which 
his friend had perhaps fallen a prey, but also at the 
sense of the loss which the church would suffer, and 
the heavy responsibility which would devolve upon 
him, if it should appear that Luther was really dead. 
Many believed that he was dead, and the greatest con- 
sternation reigned among the friends of the Reforma- 
tion. 

When Melanchthon learned the true state of affairs, 
and heard that Luther was safe and sound at the Wart- 

_burg, he was overjoyed. In May he received a letter 
_from Luther, which exhorted him to step into the 
breach created by the absence of his friend. But the 
mantle of Luther was too heavy for him. He com- 
plained in his reply that many who had been adherents 
of Luther began now to fall away. When he learned 
that the Reformer was sick at the Wartburg, and had 
no medical attendance for fear that the secret of his 
residence might be betrayed, he was greatly exercised, 
and wrote to Spalatin: “Iam worried about Luther’s 


53 


MELANCHTHON DURING LUTHER’S ABSENCE. 


THE WARTBURG. 


54 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


health; I fear he is devouring himself with secret grief, 
not over himself, but over us and the Church. You 
know with what care a vessel in which is contained so 
great a treasure ought to be preserved. If we were to 
lose him, I should have no doubt that God is angry 
with us. Through him the lamp of Israel has been 
lighted once more. What hopes would remain to us 
if it were extinguished again? Omit nothing whereby 
you may help him and all of us. Oh, that I could with 
my life purchase the life of this, the divinest man on 
earth!” In the fall of the year he lamented: “ Our 
Elijah is still absent from us. We wait and hope for 
him. Iam tormented daily with the longing for his 

pFeturn.” 

The labors and trials of Melanchthon were much in- 

' creased by Luther’s absence. Nearly all the business 
and lectures of the absent professor devolved upon 
him. Two new professors, Aurogallus and Justus 
Jonas, were installed at the university, and a new ar- 
rangement of the lectures had to be made. In all 
these matters he had to supply the place of Luther. 
Yet in spite of this additional labor, he found time 
during the year to send out his masterly defence of 
Luther against the Sorbonne, to translate for Bartholo- 
‘mew Bernhard of Feldkirch an apology which that 
pastor had prepared for marrying in opposition to the 
papal decrees, and to perform a number of other lit- 

\—_erary labors. 

Before long, however, his attention was almost 
wholly engrossed by the revolutionary changes which 
took place in Wittenberg. With all his impetuosity, 
Luther proceeded conservatively in the work of the 


MELANCHTHON DURING LUTHER’S ABSENCE. 55 


Reformation. But during his absence many in Wit- 
tenberg became radical, and were inclined to proceed 
to all manner of extremes. Melanchthon’s opinion and 
advice were consequently wanted everywhere. Taking 
into consideration his youth and comparative inexpe- 
rience, his decisions were usually marked by remark- 
able prudence and sagacity. Thus he gave it as his 
opinion that the action of the Saxon pastors who had 
married was not to be condemned, because the decree 
forbidding the marriage of the clergy was of very late 
origin, had been difficult to enforce, and found no 
warrant in Scripture. He also was appointed by the 
elector as a member of the commission charged with 
delivering an opinion on the course of the Augustinian 
monks, who, by the advice of one of their number, 
Gabriel Zwilling, had decided to abolish the reading 
of private masses, and to administer the Communion 
in both kinds, instead of giving the laity simply the 
bread, as had hitherto been the Romish custom. The 
elector feared that this action was premature, and 
would lead to trouble. The commission, however, in 
its report, sanctioned the action of the monks; and 
when the elector was dissatisfied with this opinion and 
offered objections to it, they replied that they would 
abide by their first report, and could not, in the in- 
terests of the truth, deliver a different opinion. The 
elector, therefore, decided to let matters take their 
course, and did not attempt to interfere. The move- 
ment among the monks gained strength, and in De- 
cember of the same year they formally abolished these 
abuses at a provincial convention held in Wittenberg. 

But Melanchthon was not equal to all the emergen- 


56 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


cies which arose during Luther’s absence. Both his 
youth and his mental bias were against him. He was 
more fitted for reflection and contemplation than for 
practical decision and action. Many matters came 
before him, upon which he felt himself incompetent 
to pronounce judgment without a careful and lengthy 
investigation, but which should have been decided at 
once. This was the case in his experience with the 
Zwickau prophets. These claimed that they were di- 
rectly inspired by the Holy Spirit, and possessed a 
spiritual knowledge superior to that of those who de- 
pended on the Bible for their information. They also 
denied the validity of infant baptism, and declared 
that the temporal government, which was guilty of 
much wrong, must be abolished and replaced by an- 
other, of which Storch, by divine appointment, was. to 
be the head. Their confident bearing perplexed Me- 
lanchthon. He did not possess that eminently practi- 
cal spirit and that knowledge of human nature which 
Luther possessed; and he was much puzzled to know 
how he should regard and treat these men. He sighed 
for the return of Luther, believing that he alone could 
be relied on to decide upon their claims. He even 
requested the elector to send for him, but this the 
elector refused to do. Their denial of the validity of 
infant baptism troubled Melanchthon greatly, and he 
did not know just how to refute them. Luther, on 
the other hand, when he heard of the matter, made 
short work of it, and wrote: “If they have nothing 
to say but this, that, ‘ He that believeth and is baptized 
shall be saved,’ and that children do not believe, [ am 
not in the least disturbed. How will they prove that 


MELANCHTHON DURING LUTHER’S ABSENCE. 57 


children do not believe? Will they say, ‘ Because 
they do not speak and show their faith?’ That would 
be fine, indeed. If this were so, then how many hours 
are we Christians when we sleep or are busy at work? 
Cannot God preserve faith in the child as if it were 
in constant sleep??? 

The fanatics, however, eained many adherents. One 
of the most violent of these was Carlstadt. Under his 
leadership, the excited populace burned the images in 
the churches, destroyed the altars, abolished private 
confession, introduced radical changes in the public 
worship, condemned education as useless, advised all 
the students to learn a trade, and desired wholly to 
abolish the clergy and theological training. As au- 
thority for their violent measures, they appealed to 
their Christian liberty and the Holy Spirit whom they 
claimed to possess. All who did not run with them 
to the same excess were vigorously denounced as here- 
tics. Melanchthon was powerless to quell the disturb- 
ance. He had hesitated too long before he came to a 
decision in the matter; and when he had made up his 
mind, the mischief was done, and he was unable to 
undo it. .The situation was too much for him. He 
was no preacher, and he had no gifts as a popular ora- 
tor. He could not hope, therefore, to mend matters 
by publicly declaiming against the fanatics. He was 
at his wits’ end, and could only pray for Luther’s re- 
turn. The disorder was increasing daily. 

Luther himself became convinced that his presence 
was imperatively necessary. Writing a heroic letter 
to the elector, in which he relieved that ruler of all 
responsibility for his safety, and expressed his confi- 


58 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


dence in the protection of a higher power than that of 
the elector, he hastened to Wittenberg. His appear- 
ance was hailed with joy. On the following Sunday 
he entered his pulpit, and for eight days in succession 
preached against the fanatics. In a short time order 
was again restored by Luther’s simple preaching of 


his return, he thus referred to what he had hitherto 
been instrumental in achieving: “I opposed the sale 
of indulgences and all the papists, but not with force. 
I simply preached and wrote God’s Word. And even 
while I slept or enjoyed myself in the company of 
Philip and Amsdorf, that Word has weakened popery 
to such an extent that no prince or emperor has ever 
been able to do it equal injury. I have done nothing; 
the Word has done it all.” 


GHA POR x 


NEW LABORS.—A VISIT TO BRETTEN.—MELANCHTHON AND 
—— ERASMUS. 1522-1524. 


—— 


FTER his return to Wittenberg, Luther called 
upon Melanchthon for aid in revising the 
translation of the New Testament, which the 

former had made at the Wartburg. This required 
much patient labor and research. There were still 
many obscure passages which Luther’s knowledge of 
Greek had not been sufficient to master, and which) 


NEW LABORS. 59 


Melanchthon was asked to explain. There were still 
many questions about customs, coins, weights, and 
measures, which he was requested to answer. He 
spared no efforts nor pains to assist in ascertaining the 
exact sense of the original. When he could not reach 


\a satisfactory conclusion himself concerning a word, 


he apphed for information and adyice to various 
friends. Often he and Luther sought for days at a 
time to discover the exact German word which they 
needed for their purpose, and even then did not al- 
ways succeed to their satisfaction. But at last, after 
much toil, the work was ready for the press, and was 
published in Wittenberg in the fall of 1522. The 
demand for it was very great. In a few months a 
second edition was necessary, and it was reprinted 
in Basle and other places. Luther had always insisted 
on the authority of the Word of God as the only rule 
of faith and life, and the people were eager to possess 
that Word and read it for themselves. 

The effect of this publication of the New Testament 
in the language of the people is thus described by 
Cochleus, a bitter enemy of the Reformation: “ Copies 
of the New Testament have been multiphed to an as- 
tonishing extent; so that shoemakers, women, and 
laymen of all kinds read it, carry it about with them, 
and have learned its contents by heart. In conse- 
quence of this, they have, in a few months, become so 
presumptuous that they have emboldened themselves 
to dispute, not only with Catholic laymen, but with 
priests and monks, and even with Magistrates and 
Doctors of Theology. It has even happened, at times, 
that Lutheran laymen have been able to quote, off 


60 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


hand, more passages of Scripture than the monks and 
priests themselves; and Luther has long ago convinced 
his crowd of adherents that they should not believe 
any doctrine which is not derived from the Holy Serip- 
tures. The most learned Catholic theologians are now 
looked upon by the Lutherans as ignuoramuses in the 
Seriptures; and here and there laymen have been 
heard to contradict theologians in the presence of the 
people, and to charge them with preaching falsehood 
and things of man’s devising.’”’* 

While the New Testament was in press Luther and 
Melanchthon began work upon the translation of the 
Old. They were assisted by Aurogallus, the professor of 
Hebrew. In the beginning of the year 1523 the five 
books of Moses were published; in 1524 the historical 
books of the Old Testament appeared. But the work 
of translating the prophetical books proceeded slowly. 
It was found exceedingly difficult “to make those 
ancient prophets speak in good German.” “ Job,” said 
Luther, “seems just as unwilling to put up with our 
translation as with the consolations of his friends.” 
And he thus describes the difficulties which they en- 
countered: “ Magister Philip, Aurogallus, and myself 
are laboring upon Job; but it goes so slowly that in 
four days we hardly complete four lines. When the 
translation has been made, any one can read it easily 
enough. He can fairly run over it with his eyes, with- 
out once stumbling; and he will not dream of the ob- 
structions which lay in our way, and how we had to 
sweat and worry before we had them removed.” 


* From Life of Luther, translated by Dr, Schaeffer. 


NEW LABORS. 61 


The work of translating the Old Testament pro- 
gressed so slowly that*the complete Bible in German 
was not published until the year 1534. This was due 
not only to the difficulties which the translators en- 
countered in their work, but also to the fact that they 
were frequently interrupted by other labors which the 
rapid progress of the Reformation rendered necessary. 
The Bible was constantly revised and corrected by 
Luther and his friends, up to the time of his death. 
The last edition published by Luther himself appeared 
in 1545. Others, besides the three men mentioned 
above, took part, from time to time, in the work. 
Those principally engaged were Luther, Melanchthon, 
Aurogallus, Cruciger, Jonas, and Bugenhagen or Pome- 
ranus. Concerning the share which different individu- 
als took in the work, Melanchthon said: “ Dr. Pome- 
ranus is the grammarian; he devotes himself to the 
elucidation of the text. Iam the dialectician; I note 
the connection in which the text is found, and what 
may logically and scripturally be deduced from. it. 
Jonas is the orator; he is able to apply the words of 
the text beautifully and plainly to actual life. But Dr. 
Martin is all in all; the speech and writing of this 
wonderful man and chosen instrument of God pierce 
through heart and marrow, and leave their impress 
and comfort in the hearts of the people.” 

Although Melanchthon was much occupied with 
theological labors, he was not willing to give up his 
position as professor of Greek. Under the impression 
that this office was not honorable enough for such a 
man as Melanchthon, it was proposed, at Luther’s sug- 
gestion, to relieve him of it, and to give it to some 


62 


LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


THe TRANSLATORS 


OF THE BIBLE. 


NEW LABORS. 63 


one else. It was thought, also, that if this were done, 
Melanchthon would be enabled to devote himself more 
fully to theology. But he objected strenuously to such 
a procedure, and declared that he would rather give up 
teaching theology than Greek grammar. As may be 
gathered from some of the letters which he wrote at 
the time, he did not, even though he was fond of the- 
ological studies, feel at home in the office of theolog- 
ical professor. He was averse, also, to taking any step 
which might detract from the high esteem in which 
the classical studies were then held; for he considered 
it of the highest importance for the triumph of re- 
ligious truth that the study of the classical languages 
should be appreciated at its proper value. He wrote 
to Spalatin, therefore, that, in view of the importance 
of a thorough classical training for the study of the- 
ology, and of the evil effects which, on account of the 
scarcity of competent teachers of languages, his giv- 
ing up of the Greek professorship might produce upon 
the university, he could not consent to such a change. 
He was then suffered to have his way, and bear the 
burden of a double professorship of Greek and of 
theology. 

The instruction which he gave in the Greek lan- 
guage did not, however, materially interfere with his 
theological activity. In the very next year, 1523, he 
published his “ Annotations upon Some Obscure Pas- 
sages in Genesis.” Several commentaries written by 
him upon books of the New Testament also appeared, 
namely, on St. Matthew, St. John, and the Epistles to 
the Romans and Corinthians. His commentaries on 
Romans and Corinthians were published for him by 


64 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


Luther. Melanchthon’s great modesty prevented him 
from giving them to the public. But Luther appre- 
ciated their value, secretly obtained a copy of them, 
and, without asking for permission, published them, 
jokingly remarking in the introduction to them, 
which he addressed to Melanchthon: “It is I who 
publish these your annotations and send you to your- 
self. . If you take no pleasure in yourself, very well; 
it is sufficient that we take pleasure in you. If there 
be any blame in this. matter it rests on you. Why 
did you not publish these writings yourself? Did I 


_not often beg, urge and command you to do so?” 


For almost six years Melanchthon had now been 
laboring without permitting himself any but the 
shortest periods of repose. He needed a rest. An 
obstinate attack of insomnia threatened ruin to body 
and mind. He proposed, therefore, to take a vacation. 


' A friend and fellow-professor, William Nesen, had de- 


termined to go to his home, at Frankfort-on-the-Main, 
and Melanchthon decided to accompany him to that 
point, and proceed from there to Bretten, on a visit to 
his mother. He mentioned his plan to Luther, and 
confided to him some conscientious scruples about the 
propriety of taking such astep. Luther quickly re- 
‘moved his scruples by replying: ‘“ Go, dear brother 
Philip; start upon your journey in God’s name, since 
even our Lord did not preach and teach incessantly, 
but occasionally went upon visits to his friends and 
relatives. One thing only I ask of you: return to us 
soon. I will meanwhile pray diligently for you. And 


_ now go.” 


~ Accordingly, on the morning of April 16, 1524, in 


a 


A VISIT TO BRETTEN. 65 


company with Nesen, Francis Burkhard of Weimar, 
John Silberborner of Worms, and Melanchthon’s most 
intimate friend and biographer, Joachim Camerarius 
of Bamberg, he started upon his journey. The com- 
panionship of Camerarius was especially agreeable to 
him. These two men, who all their life long remained 
the closest friends, were so nearly of the same age, 
were engaged in such similar studies and occupations, 
and were so much alike in their views and dispositions, 
that they found it mutually their greatest delight to 
converse or correspond with each other. Camerarius, 
like his friend, was professor of the Greek language, 
and held a position in the University of Erfurt. Di- 
recting their course through Leipzig, where they 
learned that their friend, Peter Mosellanus, lay at the 
point of death, and visited him, the travellers proceeded 
through Eisenach to Fulda. Here they learned the 
sad tidings, that Ulrich Von Hutten, that talented and 
well-meaning, but ill-advised scholar and knight, who 
had sought refuge from the persecutions of Rome 
upon an island in the Lake of Zurich, had died in his 
place of exile. From Fulda they journeyed to Frank- 
fort, where Nesen remained behind, while the others 
proceeded on their way to Bretten. When Melanch- 
thon beheld his native town, it is reported that, in 
deep emotion, he dismounted from his horse, and, 
falling upon his knees, exclaimed, “O my _ native 
land! I thank Thee, O Lord, that I am permitted to 
behold it again.” His mother almost fainted with 
surprise and joy when she beheld him. After his 
three companions had tarried for a few days at Bret- 


ten, they bade farewell to Melanchthon and continued 
5 


66 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON, 


JoAcHIM CAMERARIUS. 


A VISIT TO BRETTEN. 67 


their way to Basle, where they expected to visit Eras- 


mus. 


f “. Melanchthon’s mother was not very well pleased 


———SEESS-  ~—~ST 


with her illustrious son, because he had married one 
of the daughters of Wittenberg instead of the one 
which she, in her motherly solicitude, had selected for 
him in Bretten. But in the joy of their reunion and 
the sweet converse of mother and son, she soon learned 
to forget her vexation, and became reconciled. It soon 
appeared, too, that she was displeased with the promi- 
nent part which he had taken in the religious contro- 
versies of the times. They frequently discussed the 
subject between them. But she could not be brought 
to see the difference between an attack upon the errors 
and superstitions of the prevailing belief and an attack 
upon religion itself. She remained;a Roman Catholic 
to the end. 

While Melanchthon sojourned in Bretten the Uni- 
versity of Heidelberg, in recognition of his distin- 
guished services in the cause of learning, sent him, 
by the hand of three of its professors, a valuable and 
beautifully chased goblet of silver. Perhaps the uni- 
versity desired by this means to make amends for re- 
fusing, twelve years before, to grant the Master’s de- 
gree to the youthful student who since that time had 


become so famous. Another delegation also came 


from Heidelberg, on an errand which was by no means 
so pleasant to him. The papal legate, Cardinal Cam- 
pegius, was then staying at Heidelberg, having gone 
thither from the diet recently held at Nuremberg. 
Hearing that Melanchthon was visiting at Bretten, 
\ and realizing the importance of detaching him, if pos- 


68 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


sible, from the cause of the Reformation, he sent his 
private secretary, Frederic Nausea, to Bretten, to en- 
deavor to bring about such a result. In the interview 
which followed, it was plainly hinted to Melanchthon 
that, if he would only desert Luther, a glorious future 
in the Roman Catholic Church was open before him. 
But Melanchthon was not a man who could be moved 
by such inducements to turn traitor to the truth; and 
he therefore replied: “ What I have once come to re- 
gard as true I hold fast and maintain, without respect 
to the favor of any mortal and without regard to ad- 
vantage, honor, or gain. I will never desert those 
who first brought better things to light; but at the 
same time I shall ever remain true to myself by teach- 
ing and defending the truth without descending to 
quarrels and abuse. I advise all who have a sincere 
desire for peace and unity to do what lies within their 
power to heal the wounds which can no longer be con- 
cealed, and to restrain the senseless fury of those who 
constantly seek to inflame them. It is impious and 
insane to threaten with destruction all who adhere to 
Luther.” 

While Melanchthon tarried at Bretten his three 

companions, as we have stated, continued their journey 
"as far as Basle, and paid a visit to Erasmus. As this 
famous scholar had been one of the first to recognize 
and admire the extraordinary talents of Melanchthon, 
and the latter had always regarded that eminent hu- 
manist with the highest esteem and almost with vene- 
ration for his distinguished services in the revival of 
classical learning, it may be well to say a few words 
concerning the relations between these two men. In 


MELANCHTHON AND ERASMUS. 69 


its earlier stages Erasmus had been friendly to the 
Reformation. He had himself, in his satirical writ- 
ings, attacked some of the prevalent abuses. He had 
rejoiced at the defeat of monasticism, and had per- 
sistently refused to write against Luther. Many of 


Erasmus oF RoTrerRDAM. 


the papists even accused Erasmus of collusion with 
the “heretics.” But Luther was too unsparing for 
him. Erasmus wanted a reformation which could 
be accomplished peaceably, and actually desired only 
the reformation of external abuses. He was averse 


70 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


to positive statements of doctrine, and found fault 
with what he called Luther’s want of moderation. 
Finally, it came to a breach between them. But with 
Melanchthon, the great Hollander continued to the 
end on friendly terms. 

Melanchthon had been possessed with a strong de- 
sire to accompany his friends on their visit to Erasmus. 
But he feared that his doing so would add to the dis- 
tresses which that scholar suffered. These were great 
enough already. The neutral position which Erasmus 
had endeavored to maintain in the pending contro- 
versies, had made him an object of suspicion to both 
parties. By the Lutherans, he was accused of being a 
coward and time-server; by the Roman Catholics, of 
being at heart a Lutheran. His position was far from 
enviable. It was rumored at the present time, that he 
was about to take the part of King Henry VIIL. of 
England in his controversy with Luther, and was pre- 
paring a pamphlet for that purpose. Under these cir- 
cumstances, and in order not to involve Erasmus in 
any greater embarrassments than those under which he 
already labored, Melanchthon deemed it advisable not 
to go to Basle. Erasmus appreciated his motives; 
and, although he published, during the year, his pam- 
phlet on the “ Free Will,” and fiercely attacked in it 
the position which Luther and Melanchthon main- 
tained, he still endeavored to remain on friendly 
terms with Melanchthon, and wrote him a lengthy 
letter, in which he set forth his opinion of the Refor- 
mation. 

In this letter he assures Melanchthon first of all, of 
the pleasure which he would have experienced, had he 


MELANCHTHON AND ERASMUS. rah 


been favored with a visit; “for he had always been 
an admirer of Melanchthon’s great gifts, and doubly 
so, since he had read his Loci Communes. He would 
not deny, he said, that there were many things in that 
excellent work with which he could not agree; but he 
had no desire to raise a controversy over them nor 
over other points which he might mention. He as- 
serted, that he was not only not opposed, in general, to 
the restoration of evangelical truth, but actually de- 
sired it, and had always hoped that Luther would use 
more moderation. For this reason, he had hitherto 
exerted his influence to restrain the fury of the theolo- 
gians and the rage of the princes, and had anxiously 
waited for the time when the cause of the Gospel 
might be promoted without great disturbance. This, 
he added, he still continued to do. At every suitable 
opportunity he wrote to the emperor and other princes. 
To a certain extent he played the part of Gamaliel; 
and he hoped for a happy issue of the matter. Then 
he proceeds to mention the divergence of views which 
had arisen among the adherents of the reformers, and 
the inconsistent and disorderly conduct of many among 
them, as a reason, why he could not ally himself with 
them. ‘I see here,’ he says, ‘many persons of such 
a character, that, even if I approved of all that Luther 
writes, I would not care to be counted as belonging to 
their party.’ Finally, he referred to the controversy 
with Luther upon which he had just entered, and de- 
clared that, since his views differed so materially from 
those of Luther, and the latter had informed him in 
his last letter that a further silence would be regarded 
as an evidence of timidity and cowardice, he owed it 


72 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


to himself, his Church and his friends, to take up the 
pen against Luther and publish his pamphlet on the 
freedom of the will.” 
This publication of Erasmus attacked the position 
which not only Luther, but Melanchthon also, had 
maintained. Both of the reformers had taught the 
total depravity of human nature, and held that the 
Holy Spirit must bring about a new will in the human 
heart, and, even in the regenerate, must prompt to 
everything that is good. But Melanchthon did not 
take any active part in this controversy between 


_ Luther and Erasmus. He wrote a reply, however, to 


the letter which he had received, and said that there 


| was, indeed, “‘some reason for the complaints made 


about the conduct of many of the adherents of 


-Luther’s doctrine; but that Luther was as much dis- 


pleased with such people as Erasmus, and to lay the 
blame of their unworthy actions upon Luther or to 
the doctrine which he taught was a gross injustice. 
He himself, he declared, could not with a good con- 


‘science, reject Luther’s doctrines, though he would do 


so at once if he saw that they were unscriptural. But 
as this was not the case he would not, even at the risk 
of being considered superstitious or foolish, nor yet in 
order to avoid conflict with the present order of 
things, permit himself to waver in his faith.” 

_ We left Melanchthon in the pleasant society of his 
mother, enjoying a well-earned and much-needed va- 
cation. After an absence of about four weeks, his 
friends came back from Basle, and preparations were 
immediately made for the return to Wittenberg. His 
mother, of course, would gladly have kept him longer 


MEETING WITH PHILIP OF HESSE. 73 


But this could not be, and the farewells had to be 
said. She saw her son but once more on earth, and 
that was during the second Diet of Speyer. She died 
in 1529. 

The homeward journey led Melanchthon and his 
friends back to Frankfort. On the way thither they 
were met by Philip of Hesse, who was traveling on 
the same road with a large train of followers. Aware 
of the presence of Melanchthon in that neighborhood 
and perceiving a group of horsemen who looked as if 
they might be learned men, the landgrave approached 
them and asked whether Philip Melanchthon was 
among them. Melanchthon replied in the affirmative, 
and, as a mark of respect, was about to dismount; but 
he was prevented from doing so by the landgrave, who 
insisted on having the company of the party over 
night. There were many things, the prince said, 
which he desired to have them explain. He bade Me- 
lanchthon not to fear any harm from him. Melanch- 
thon assured the prince that he was not afraid, and 
that, besides, he was a very unimportant. individual 
and had, therefore, the less reason to fear. ‘ Yet,” 
replied the prince, “ Cardinal Campegius would be 
overjoyed if you were given over into his hands.” 
After they had indulged in some unimportant con- 
versation, Melanchthon respectfully asked permission 
to continue his journey, and the landgrave consented, 
provided that, after his return to Wittenberg, Me- 
lanchthon would send to him a detailed account of 
the causes and progress of the recent innovations in 
religious matters. To this Melanchthon readily as- 
sented; and, after his arrival at Wittenberg, he pre- 


74 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


N ak 
S2 sy 
KayPYy 
(% 


Yom 
ee 


Wire 
S | an il 
Mis > NV ZS taal 

pin iin sh 


Puiu I., Lanpgrave or Hesse, 


THE RETURN TO WITTENBERG. 75 


pared such a document and sent it to the prince. The 
result was remarkable; for, as early as 1525, Philip 
of Hesse openly declared in favor of the Reformation. 
It is a great pity that the unbridled sensuality of this 
otherwise worthy prince subsequently involved Me- 
lanchthon'and the Reformation in serious difficulty. 

The journey of Melanchthon, which began so joy- 
fully, ended sadly. Burkhard was left behind, ill, at 
Frankfort; Nesen was drowned in the Elbe, on July 
5th, while he was crossing that river in a boat; and 
Camerarius had to leave his friend and go to Bam- 
berg. Melanchthon and Silberborner returned alone, 
in sorrow, to Wittenberg, arriving there July 15th, af- 
ter an absence of almost three months. 

A spirit of melancholy settled down upon Melanch- 
thon. He longed particularly for the company of his 
bosom friend, Camerarius, and wrote to him: ‘TI live 
here as though I were in a desert. I have little inter- 
course with any but small minds, in whom I can take 
no pleasure. Consequently, I sit at home like a lame 
cobbler.” That Luther was not counted among the 
small minds to which he refers; is self-evident. 


76 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


CHAPTER. X. 


THE PEASANTS’ WAR. LUTHER’S MARRIAGE. THE 
Ss. SAXON VISITATION. 1525-1527. 


N the year 1525 Germany became the scene of 
great political disturbances. The peasants, op- 
pressed with excessive taxes and other burdens, 

broke out in a general insurrection. They falsely ap- 
plied Luther’s doctrine of Christian liberty to political 
and social life, and attempted to institute a sort of 
communism. They formulated their demands in 
twelve articles, which they endeavored to base upon 
the Scriptures. But even when these demands were 
granted by the princes, the peasants were not satisfied. 
Led by the fanatical preacher, Thomas Miinzer, who 
considered these demands far too moderate, they rioted 
in all manner of lawlessness. Many who were opposed 
to the insurrection were frightened into joining the 
army of the rebels. Fire and devastation were spread 
everywhere, and thousands were cruelly slain. 

By many the blame for this insurrection was laid 
upon the Reformation. But there had been such re- 
volts before the Reformation was begun, and the peas- 
ants in this instance merely endeavored to use the 
doctrines of the reformers to shield their lawless con- 
duct. The reformers took a decided stand against 
their murderous practices. Luther sympathized with 
the peasants under their oppressions, but he could 
have no sympathy with the method which they pur- 


THE PEASANTS’ WAR. {tis 


sued to obtain redress for their grievances. He pub- 
lished an “ Exhortation to Peace on the Twelve Arti- 
cles of the Peasants in Swabia,” earnestly appealing 
to the consciences of princes and peasants. But, in- 
cited by their fanatical leaders, the peasants paid no 
heed to his exhortations, and continued their violent 


THomas MUNZER. 


measures till they were completely vanquished by the 
princes at the battle of Frankhausen and reduced to 
submission, 

Melanchthon was called on personally to give his 
opinion of the matter. The peasants had rebelled in 
the Palatinate also. On the eighteenth of May the 
Elector of that State wrote to him that he had hitherto 
dealt very mildly with the peasants, and proposed to 


78 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


take up the consideration of the Twelve Articles in the 
assembly of deputies, which was to convene after Pen- 
tecost; and he requested Melanchthon, as one “who 
had been born and raised in the Palatinate, who was 
more learned and experienced in the Scriptures than 
others, and who was well known, and, doubtless, in- 
clined to peace and justice, to come to Heidelberg; or, 
if that was impossible, to send his opinion.” 
Melanchthon found that he could not go to Heidel- 
berg; but he prepared a pamphlet “ Against the Arti- 
cles of the Peasants.” This, as well as Luther’s second 
pamphlet on the subject, gave offence to many. Me- 
lanchthon was called a court-theologian. He has often, 
since that time, been severely criticized for his pam- 
phlet. Perhaps his verdict was needlessly harsh. But 
we must remember that it was given at a time when 
the peasants were plunging into all manner of lawless- 
ness and perpetrating fearful atrocities. They had 
themselves rendered a milder verdict impossible from 
one to whom all disorder was an abomination. The 
peasants had said that they would submit their cause 
to the decision of God’s word. Accordingly Melanch- 
thon proceeded to explain the Scriptural doctrines 
which bore on the question. “There were many,” he 
said, “who had, no doubt, sinned in ignorance, and 
who, if they were better instructed, would forsake 
such wicked ways and have regard for the judgment 
of God and their own souls.” He referred to the 
thirteenth Chapter of Romans as the Christian’s guide 
in these matters, and argued from it that the Gospel 
demands obedience to the government and forbids re- 
bellion, even when rulers do evil. He insisted on the 


THE PEASANTS’ WAR.—LUTHER’S MARRIAGE. 79 


maintenance of order; but, at the same time, he coun- 
selled the princes to be just and merciful in their deal- 
ings with their subjects. In case, however, that the 
peasants cannot be prevailed upon to put an end to 
their wicked conduct, then, he said, they are to be 
treated as murderers. When the insurrection had 
been subdued, he added to his pamphlet an appendix, 
in which he appealed to the princes to exercise clem- 
ency toward their conquered subjects. The peasants, 
he said, had already suffered severely for their con- 
duct, and “many of them had sinned through fear or 
folly.” wa aa 
During the progress of the peasants’ war, the Elec- 
tor Frederick the Wise of Saxony died very peace- 
fully on May 5, 1525. Melanchthon assisted Luther 
at the funeral services, and delivered a Latin oration, 
in which he dwelt upon the excellent character of the 
deceased ruler and his great love for God’s word. 
The death of this prince was a great blow to Melanch- 
thon. He liked the careful, moderate, prudent con- 
duct of this elector. But when John the Constant, 
the brother of the deceased ruler, took charge of the 
government, it was found that he was as staunch a 
supporter of the Gospel and as faithful a friend to 
Luther and Melanchthon as his predecessor has been. 
In the midst of these stirring times, in the month 
of June, 1525, Luther surprised Melanchthon and 
everybody else by his marriage with Catherine Von 
Bora. This marriage between Luther, who had been 
a monk, and Miss Von Bora, who had been a nun, 
created an immense sensation. Melanchthon thought 
that the step itself was right and proper. He had 


80 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


long before this defended the right of the clergy to 
marry. But he feared that it was ill-advised in Luther 
to take the step at that particular time. He feared 
that it would detract from Luther’s influence in that 


ELEecToR JOHN THE CoNnsTANT. 


troubled period when his influence was so sorely 
needed. Nevertheless, he stood by his friend faith- 
fully; and whenever Luther afterwards became dis- 
heartened by the new attacks which the report of his 
marriage brought upon him, Melanchthon encouraged 
him to the best of his ability. When the wedding 


ORGANIZING SCHOOLS. 81 


dinner was given on June 27th, and Luther invited 
his parents and friends, Melanchthon ‘was present 
among them, and added to the mirth of the festive 
oceasion by flashes of wit and merriment. | / 
Amid all the distractions and anxieties of this period, 

Melanchthon steadily directed his efforts to the ad-| 
vancement of education and the building up of good 
Christian schools. During a period covering many 
years he found time, in spite of his numerous other | 
engagements, to give elementary instruction to a 
number of young men who lived with him in his own 
house. He did this on account of the lamentable lack 
of suitable preparatory schools. He lost no oppor- 
tunity, however, to provide for this lack, whenever he 
found it possible to do so. In the spring of 1525, 
with Luther’s help, he re-organized the schools of 
Eisleben and Magdeburg. In the fall of the same 
year, he went to Nuremberg and assisted in the estab- 
lishment of a gymnasium* in that city; and in the fol- 
lowing spring he returned to Nuremberg and formally 
opened the school. He delivered an address in Latin, 
in which he dwelt upon the importance of education, 
and the credit which the movers in this enterprise de- 


served. GDL eo Seo) ee RR RS a : 


city lie inthe—eulture,wisdo: i om and virtue of its citi- 


Sst a-ha se sn the. 


GRO OER at this time, was one of the most en- 
lightened and prosperous cities of Germany. It num- 
bered among its inhabitants some of the most distin- 


/ 


* A high school or college. ° 
6 


82 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


guished intellects of the age, among whom were 
Willibald Pirkheimer, Jerome Baumgiirtner, Lazarus 
Spengler, Jerome Ebner and Caspar Niitzel. With 
all of these, Melanchthon stood in intimate relations, 
and with Baumgiirtner he carried on a life-long cor- 
respondence. » Among his other friends in this city 
was the distinguished painter, Albrecht Diirer, who 
during this visit of Melanchthon painted a likeness of 
him which is considered one of the best in existence. 
After spending a short time very pleasantly in the 
eompany of these friends, Melanchthon returned to 
Wittenberg. He had hardly arrived there before he 
was attacked by a severe illness from which his friends 
feared that he would not recover. But by the fall of 
the year he was again able to resume his duties. 

In January of the year 1526, he was formally ap- 
pointed as a professor of theology; and his salary was 
raised to two hundred florins. This appointment was 
made much against his will. He feared, in his ex- 
treme modesty and conscientiousness, that he would 
not be able, with his delicate health, to do full justice 
to the position. But Luther urged him to accept it; 
and, fearing that his influence might not be altogether 
sufficient to prevail upon his over-scrupulous colleague, 
he communicated with the elector, and requested him 
to write to Melanchthon. ‘ Your Electoral Grace,” he 
says, “has commanded the university to give Magister 
Philip two hundred florins per year. Now, however, 
the man proposes to decline it, because, he says, he is 
not able to read lectures regularly and without inter- 
ruption. He declares that he cannot with a good con- 
science accept it. He thinks that your Electoral Grace 


THE SAXON VISITATION. 83 


will expect the impossible from him. My talking and 
remonstrances are of no avail. I pray your Electoral 
Grace, therefore, kindly explain the matter to him 
yourself, and make him understand that your Grace is 
satisfied if. he only assists, according to his ability, in 
the theological department, just as he has done hith- 
erto, whether it be but once a week or oftener.” 
Finally Melanchthon’s scruples were overcome, and he 
accepted the position and the increase of salary. The 
latter he certainly needed. serie 

In the year 1527, Melanchthon took part with 
Luther in the visitation of the schools and churches 
of Saxony. It was high time for such astep. Affairs 
were in a wretched condition. In many places no re- 
ligious instruction was given at all, because there were 
either no pastors and teachers stationed there, or those 
who were stationed there were grossly ignorant them- 
selves. The greatest disorder imaginable reigned 
nearly everywhere. In one instance, it was found 
that in one congregation the pastor preached the Gos- 
pel, but that in another part of his parish he read the 
Romish mass. The financial condition of many of the 
churches was equally bad. Many of the legacies on 
which the churches depended for their support had 
been withdrawn, and on others the interest was with- 
held. It was the object of the visitation to bring 
order out of this chaos. Melanchthon was charged 
with making a beginning in Thuringia. The spiritual 
distress which he discovered rent his heart, and he 
often went aside and wept over what he saw. 

As a basis for the re-organization of the churches 
and schools, Melanchthon was commanded by the 


84 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


elector to prepare an “Instruction of the Visitors to 
the Clergy of Saxony.” This work was to contain a 
statement of the lines on which that re-organization 
was to be effected. To prepare such a work was by 
no means an easy task. It was necessary to give the 
distinctive doctrines of the evangelical Church in a 
popular form, to guard them against misapprehension, 
and to give prominence to that which was practical 
and edifying. The work which Melanchthon was 
charged with preparing was to be the guide for plac- 
ing all the churches of Saxony on an evangelical basis. 
Evangelical truth was to take the place of popish tradi- 
tions; Scriptural ceremonies were to supersede Romish 
abuses. Yet all appearance of introducing novel or 
strange doctrines was to be avoided. It was a work, 
therefore, which required not only a deep insight 
into the essence of the Gospel, but rare tact and dis- 
cretion. Melanchthon, however, was the very man 
for the occasion. He drew up a work which was ad- 
mirably adapted to its purpose. It is valuable as an 
expression of Melanchthon’s theological views, and 
shows that he viewed theology largely from an ethical 
standpoint. 

Pastors, he says, are not only to preach of the for- 
giveness.of sins, but also of the need of repentance ; 
because there can be no true faith and no real forgive- 
ness of sins without repentance. They are, therefore, 
not to omit the preaching of the Ten Commandments. 
The three essentials of a Christian life, he declares, 
are repentance, faith, and good works. These latter 
are necessary. God does not bestow grace on account 
of them, but only for Christ’s sake. Yet the Christian 


THE SAXON VISITATION. 85 


must do good works, because God has commanded 
them. He also corrects some misapprehensions con- 
cerning the meaning of Christian liberty, and states 
that it consists of “freedom from the power of the 
devil and the wrath of God; freedom from the cere- 
monial law of Moses; freedom from absolute obedience 
to human regulations in the Church.” He urges the 
preachers to seek the edification of their hearers, to 
refrain from abuse of persons, and to condemn the 
vices and sins of those to whom they preach. They 
are not to be continually declaiming against the pope 
and the bishops, but to preach those things which will 
conduce to a true Christian spirit and life in their 
congregations. He also added a chapter on the im- 
provements to be made in the schools. 

The doctrinal position of this work agreed: with 
Luther’s and received his approval. But its temper 
was so mild and conciliating, and it was worded so 
moderately in comparison with Luther’s stormy utter- 
ances, that many of the Roman Catholics imagined 
that Melanchthon was tending toward Romanism 
again. They even made overtures to him. He says 
in a letter written to Camerarius about this time, that 
Faber, the court preacher of King Ferdinand of Bo- 
hemia, had held out all manner of promises to induce 
him to desert the Lutheran cause. 

An attack was made upon this book by J ae Agri- 
cola, rector of the school at Hisleben. He had hitherto 
been a friend of Melanchthon. But when this work 
appeared, he published a severe criticism of it, and 
maintained that to teach that repentance is to be 
brought about by preaching the law, is unscriptural 


86 - LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


and Romanizing. He raised a great stir by his writ- 
ings. The elector, therefore, arranged a meeting at 
Torgau between Agricola, Melanchthon, Luther, and 
Bugenhagen, for the purpose of putting an end to the 
dispute. Apparently, Agricola was convinced of his 
error; but ten years later he began the controversy 
anew, and, in his antinomian zeal, went so far as to say 
that “Moses ought to be hanged on the gallows.” 

In the summer of 1527, on account of the plague 
which had broken out in Wittenberg, the university 
was removed to Jena. It was to that city, therefore, 
that Melanchthon, on his return from visiting the 
churches in Thuringia, wended his way. He resumed 
his labors at the university and devoted his attention 
to his lectures on Demosthenes and the proverbs of 
Solomon, and to the investigation of many ecclesiasti- 
cal questions which arose. He also prepared two arti- 
cles against the Anabaptists, in which he defended the 
practice of infant-baptism, explained the meaning, use, 
and advantage of the sacrament, and refuted the teach- 
ings of the Anabaptists concerning the government 
and community of goods. In October of the year 
1528, he made a second tour of visitation through 
parts of Thuringia. 


THE SECOND DIET OF SPEYER.—1529. 87 


OHAPTER XI. 


THE SECOND DIET OF SPEYER. THE MARBURG COLLOQUY. 
1529. 


HILE Melanchthon and others were busy 

\ \) with the visitation and re-organization of 
the churches in Saxony, a great peril 

seemed to threaten the evangelical cause. It was 
rumored that a league of Roman Catholic princes had 
been formed for the purpose of attacking the Luther- 
ans. Philip of Hesse declared that he himself had ob- 
tained from Otto von Pack, counsellor of Duke George 
of Saxony, a copy of a document, sealed with the 
ducal seal, which plainly stated that the Landgrave of 
Hesse and the Elector of Saxony were to be attacked 
and deprived of their dominions, if they did not re- 
nounce their heresies. He pictured the consequences 
of such a league so graphically, that the elector, who 
was generally cautious and conservative, consented to 
a counter-league with him. In accordance with this 
agreement, an army of twenty-six thousand men was 
immediately to be placed’in the field. The landgrave 
was in favor of beginning operations at once. He 
actually led his army to the frontier. But the elector 
began to have scruples about the propriety and justice 
of such a war, and decided to seek the advice of his 
theologians. These replied that, whether the report 
of a. Roman Catholic league was true or untrue, in 
neither case would the elector be justified in begin- 


88 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


ning warlike operations. They advised him to lay 
the whole matter before the emperor, and rather to 
break with Philip of Hesse than to wage an unjust 
war. 

Melanchthon concurred in the opinion of the other 
theologians. He also wrote a special letter to the 
elector, in which he said: “In times of affliction it is 
certainly the greatest comfort to have a good con- 
science and to know that God is our friend. But if 
we should grasp the sword and begin war with an evil 
conscience, then would we lose this comfort.” The 
elector himself agreed with these opinions, but the 
landgrave was not satisfied. Writing to his father-in- 
law, Duke George, he demanded to know whether, or 
not, the duke was willing to sever his connection with 
the Roman Catholic league and keep the peace. To 
his astonishment, the duke replied, that there was no 
such league in existence; that the report was false; 
and that the document which the landgrave had seen 
was a forgery of the deepest dye. To this day, the 
existence or non-existence of such a league is an open 
question. The evangelical party was not fully inclined 
_ to believe the declaration of Duke George, but the 

~warlike preparations ceased. 

With the relations between them thus strained, the 
princes of the realm assembled for the Imperial Diet at 
Speyer in the year 1529. Melanchthon accompanied 
the elector. At a previous diet, held in the same city 
in 1526, it had been decided, that “a universal, or at 
the least a national, free council should be convoked 
within a year, that they should request the emperor to 
return speedily to Germany; and that until then each 


THE SECOND DIET OF SPEYER.—1529. 89 


state should behave in its own territory in such a man- 
ner as to be able to render an account to God and the 
emperor.” That decree had left the Reformation com- 
paratively free to continue its progress. But at the 
second Diet of Speyer, now held, all this was changed. 
It was a diet in which the Roman Catholic princes 
manifested more open hostility toward the evangelical 
party than ever before. They were angry with them- 
selves for adopting the resolution of the year 1526; 
and they were highly gratified, therefore, when, at the 
opening of this present diet, the emperor declared that, 
by virtue of the imperial power vested in him, he an- 
nulled the resolution of the previous diet. A new de- 
cree was passed, which insisted on the enforcement of 
the edict of Worms. As this edict had placed Luther 
and his adherents under the ban, its re-enactment 
filled the evangelical party with apprehension. 
Melanchthon’s soul was heavy with grief and fore- 
bodings. His natural disposition inclined him rather 
to magnify than to make light of difficulties and dan- 
gers. He did not possess the gigantic faith of Luther, 
which was content to entrust the Church to the care 
of God. Consequently, the proceedings of the diet 
filled him with dismay. He trembled for the security 
of the evangelical cause. Perhaps the excessive anxiety 
which took possession of him may account for the 
unjust censure which he passed upon the conduct of 
the Lutheran princes in this diet. He vainly imagined 
that the Roman Catholics would not have passed the 
obnoxious decree at all, or would have annulled it 
again, if some minor and unessential points had been 
conceded to them. But he credited the Roman Catho- 


90 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


lies with good intentions which they never possessed. 
They were bent on crushing out the Reformation. 
The princes judged far more correctly than he of the 
temper and spirit of their foes, and of the course 
which had to be pursued in dealing with them. Yet 
it must be said to Melanchthon’s credit, that after the 
decree of the diet was passed, he was as much opposed 
as any one to yielding obedience to its unholy demands; 
and that he advised, as a last resort, the presentation 
of a formal protest against the resolution of the diet. 

Accordingly, on April 15, 1529, the Lutherans pre- 
sented their celebrated Protest and Appeal. Those 
who signed it, and thus became the first to bear the 
name of Protestants, were the Elector John of Saxony, 
the Elector George of Brandenburg, the Dukes Ernest 
and Francis of Luneburg, the Landgrave Philip of 
Hesse, Wolfgang, Prince of Anhalt, and the representa- 
tives of fourteen imperial cities. 

On the sixth of May Melanchthon arrived again at 
Wittenberg. Both he and Luther expected that a re- 
ligious war would follow. Melanchtbon was so trou- 
bled at the prospect that Luther wrote: “ Philip wor- 
ries himself so much about the Church and the gene- 
ral welfare, that he is injuring his health.” To these 
public sorrows, which weighed him down, were added, 
also, private griefs. In July of this year his mother 
_died; in August his little son, George. 

While the Protestant camp was thus seriously 
threatened by the Roman Catholics from without, it 
was hampered by dissensions within. The Reformed 
party, led by Zwingli of Switzerland, differed from the 
Lutherans on a number of points, but particularly on 


THE SECOND DIET OF SPEYER.—1529. 91 


the doctrine of the Lord’s Supper. This divergence 
of views had led to violent controversies between them. 
Luther, and with him Melanchthon, maintained that 
they must abide by the plain words of Christ, “ This 


Wo.Lreanc, Prince oF ANHALT. 


is my body; this is my blood.” They held, therefore, 
that Christ is really present in the Lord’s Supper. 
Zwingli, on the other hand, denied the real presence. 
He maintained that when Christ said, “This is my 


92 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


body,” He meant, “This signifies my body.” He 
claimed that Christ’s body could not be present at so 
many different places at the same time. This was not 
only a limitation of divine power, but a denial of the 
participation of Christ’s glorified body in the attri- 
butes of his divinity. 

Philip of Hesse was greatly concerned about this 
disagreement. He thought that the political situation 
imperatively demanded a union between the Lutherans 
and the Reformed. He therefore planned the holding 
of a conference, in which the differences should be 
discussed and an agreement, if possible, be reached. 
Neither Luther nor Melanchthon believed that such a 
conference would secure the desired result. But the 
landgrave persisted in his project. Finally, in October, 
1529, a Colloquy was held at-Marburg. On the one 
side were Luther, Melanchthon, Jonas, Brenz, and 
Osiander; on the other, Zwingli, @colampadius, Bu- 
eer, and Hedio. After a discussion lasting several 
days, the Zwinglians accepted the Lutheran view in 
everything but the Lord’s Supper. On this they would 
not yield. It was agreed, however, that for the sake 
of peace, all parties should refrain in the future from 
controversies on the point on which they had failed to 
unite. Fifteen articles, prepared by the Lutherans, 
were then produced, and all were subscribed by the 
Zwinglians except the last, which maintained the real 
presence of Christ in the Lord’s Supper. 

The Zwinglians now wanted to be acknowledged by 
the Lutherans as brethren. But as long as they main- 
tained their erroneous view of the Sacrament of the 
Body and Blood of Christ, and refused to subordinate 


THE MARBURG COLLOQUY. 93 


their reason to the plain word of Scripture, Luther felt 
that he could not do so. He told them, “ Ye have a 
different spirit from ours.’ 


> Luther has been severely 


censured by many for this refusal. But he could not 
do otherwise. If he had accepted the proffered hand 
of fellowship, it would have been an acknowledgment 
on his part that he regarded the difference of views 


CoLLoquy oF MARBURG. 


fe 
: 


94 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


between them as unessential. But he could not make 
such an acknowledgment. There was not only a dif- 
ference of doctrine but a difference of spirit between 


_the two reformers. Luther unconditionally accepted 


the plain text of Scripture; Zwingli refused to accept 
what he could not understand. No one, we think, will 
claim that Melanchthon was polemically inclined or 


| was unwilling to make concessions for the sake of 


peace. He has been blamed, and justly too, for yield- 
ing too much. But even Melanchthon, mild and 
peace-loving as he was, could not consent, any more 
than Luther, to accept the hand of fellowship and 
brotherhood with the Zwinglians. He saw that vast 
perils threatened the pure truth of God’s Word if the 
Zwinglian method of interpretation prevailed. He 
wrote to a friend concerning the Zwinglians at this 
Colloquy: “They seemed to be more trifling even 
than they had been before this conference. They con- 
tended very strongly that we should call them breth- 
ren. But look at their stupidity; while they condemn 
us, they yet desire to be considered by us as brethren. 
We cannot give our consent to this.” 


GOuE GAN Ps This se lee 
THE DIET OF AUGSBURG. 1530. 


HE year 1530 was, unquestionably, one of the 
most important in the history of the Refor- 
mation. It was also a momentous one in the 

life of Melanchthon. In the public negotiations and 


THE DIET OF AUGSBURG.—1530. 95 


transactions of that year, no one took a more impor- 
tant part than he. 
The Emperor Charles V. had defeated the Turks, 


LEGG 


SS 


CHARLEs V. 


made peace with King Francis of France, and become 
reconciled with the pope. He had leisure now to give 
his attention to the religious difficulties which dis- 


96 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


turbed his realm. Accordingly, in the beginning of 
the year 1530, he summoned a diet to meet on April 
8th, at Augsburg. In his proclamation, he promised 
to give an impartial hearing to both sides in the con- 
troversy, so that a just decision might be reached. 
But the recollection of the action of the diet of Speyer 
of the previous year, and expressions which the em- 
peror had made since that time, caused many of the 
Lutherans to doubt the sincerity of his peaceful dec- 
larations. Some of them even considered it danger- 
ous to attend the diet, and spoke of resorting to arms. 
But better counsel finally prevailed, and they resolved 


_ to attend. 


On March-the 14th,-the Elector John of Saxony di- 
rected Luther, Melanchthon, Jonas, and Bugenhagen, 
to prepare, for presentation at the diet, a statement 
of the doctrines and ceremonies in dispute. By March 
_21st, the first three of these theologians, were to bring 
their statement to Torgau and be ready to accompany 
the elector to Augsburg. The time allotted for the 
preparation of this important document was exceed- 
ingly brief. But fortunately there were on hand some 
articles which were adapted to the purpose. At Mar- 
burg fifteen articles had been drawn up by Luther to 
effect an agreement with the Zwinglians; and on the 
basis of these, Luther, with the assistance of the other 
theologians, had prepared the seventeen articles of 
Schwabach. These were now revised to express the 
doctrinal position of the reformers; and special arti- 
cles on the abuses prevailing in the Roman Catholic 
Church were drawn up. The latter, now known as 
the Torgau Articles proper, together with the revised 


THE DIET OF AUGSBURG.—1530. 97 


Articles of Schwabach, were then taken to Torgau and 
laid before the elector. He was pleased with them, 
and directed Melanchthon to give them a finished 
form, and write an introduction to them. 

These preparations having been made, the elector, 


CoBuRG. 


his theologians, and a retinue of one hundred and sixty 
horsemen, set out on April 3d, for the city of Augs- 
burg. They traveled leisurely by way of Eisenach 
and Weimar till they arrived at Coburg. Here, in 
the castle of the Duke of Coburg, near the boundary 
of the elector’s dominions, Luther was left behind. It 


was unsafe for him to travel farther. He was still 
ff 


98 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


resting under the papal excommunication and the im- 
perial ban. In the elector’s dominions, and surrounded 
by his friends, he was comparatively safe. But if he 
had ventured to appear in Augsburg, he would cer- 
tainly have been seized or assassinated. An imperial 
safe-conduct was denied him: and, much as his heart 
yearned to go, he had to remain behind. Upon Me-— 
lanchthon, therefore, devolved _the—duty-oftaking,_as 
“far as possible, Luther’s place in the diet, and becoming 
the chief representative of the the Lutheran cause. 

On the second of May the electoral party arrived in 
Augsburg. During the journey Melanchthon had 
employed his spare time in the preparation of the 
Confession which was to be presented at the diet. 
When, on his arrival, he found the emperor and many 
of the princes still absent, he continued to devote 
himself assiduously to this difficult undertaking. To 
Luther belonged the substance of the Confession, but 
to Melanchthon we are indebted for its perfect form. 
Careful in his style, appreciating the necessity of se- 
lecting the proper words in a document so important, 
and gifted with a wonderful power of clear and exact 
expression, no more suitable person could have been 
found for that work than Melanchthon. On May 11th, 
he had the Confession completed and ready for presen- 
tation. A messenger was dispatched with it to Co- 
burg for Luther’s examination and approval. Luther 
replied; “ Ihave read the Apology (Confession) of 

| Magister Philip. I am well pleased with it, and I find 
) nothing to improve or alter in it; neither would it do 
\ for me to attempt it, because I cannot tread so softly 
‘and - gently. May Christ our Lord help that it may 


THE DIET OF AUGSBURG.—1530. 99 


bring forth much and great fruit, as we hope and 
pray. Amen.” 

Inasmuch, however, as the emperor still delayed his 
coming, Melanchthon continued his work of revision 
and endeavored to give the Confession a still more per- 
fect form. The pains which he took with this task were 
extraordinary. He dreaded lest in so critical a docu- 
ment, he might, by some incautious statement or some 
lack of precision, be to blame for very evil conse- 
quences. He thought that he could not be conscien- 
tious or scrupulous enough. Every word of the Ger- 
man and Latin text, he felt, must be carefully weighed 
before it was employed. Often his anxiety deprived 
him of sleep at night; and often, with tears in his 
eyes, he complained to his friends of the heavy bur- 
den resting upon him. By May 22d, the Confession 
had assumed a new form, and was again sent to 
Luther. Still this conscientious servant of God was 
not satisfied. He continued to toil at his task of re- 
vision and improvement; and a third time, in its final 
form, the Confession was sent to Coburg for Luther’s 
approval. : 

While Melanchthon was busily engaged in this 
work, he was greatly in demand on other accounts. | 
It was necessary, under existing circumstances, to de- 
cide beforehand how the Lutherans ought to conduct 
themselves, should the emperor see fit to make of the 
Lutherans various demands of a religious nature. 
Thus, for instance, acommand came from the emperor 
prohibiting the Lutherans from preaching in Augs- 
burg, until the religious difficulties had been settled. 
The elector immediately sought Melanchthon’s advice. 


100 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


Melanchthon replied that, inasmuch as they were the 
emperor’s guests in Augsburg, they ought to obey. 
With this opinion Luther himself agreed. But the 
elector and the Saxon chancellor, Brueck, could hardly 
be prevailed upon to yield. They protested to the em- 
peror against the injunction. Finally an agreement 
was reached, in accardance with which no one what- 
ever was to preach in Augsburg except by appoint- 
ment of the emperor. 

Melanchthon was greatly disturbed during this time 
by the conduct of the Landgrave Philip of Hesse. 
This fiery and impetuous prince, while he was ready 
to sign the Confession, was also exceedingly anxious 
that the Zwinglians, who were present at Augsburg, 
should be recognized as brethren. To this Melanch- 
thon was not willing to agree. But the landgrave, 
greatly to Melanchthon’s discomfort, persisted in his 
efforts. The latter found it necessary, therefore, to 
write to Luther and request him to communicate with 
the landgrave upon the subject. 

It was not till June 15th, that the emperor, accom- 
panied by his brother, King Ferdinand, the papal 
legate Cardinal Campegius, and a brilliant train of 
soldiers and courtiers, arrived at Augsburg. Almost 
‘immediately upon his arrival, the Lutherans were 
obliged to take a determined stand in opposition to 
his wishes. They refused, as a matter of conscience, 
to take part in the procession of the festival of Corpus 
Christi which occurred on the following day. 

The diet was formally opened June 20th, and an- 
nouncement was made of the matters to be acted upon. 
These were the war with the Turks, and the religious 


THE DIET OF AUGSBURG.—1530. 101 


dissensions of the empire. The emperor declared that 
if the edict of Worms had been observed, the reli- 
gious difficulties of the realm would not have assumed 
such large proportions; but that, nevertheless, the 
questions at issue should now receive careful consid- 
eration. This language of the emperor was not ex- 
actly of the kind to inspire the Lutherans with the 
hope of a favorable outcome of the diet. Yet it was 
mild in comparison with the utterances of many of the 
Roman Catholic princes. Melanchthon was filled with 
forebodings, and felt constrained to make every effort 
for the maintenance of peace. Unfortunately, he per- 
mitted himself to be drawn into negotiations which 
have not redounded to his credit. 

Immediately after the emperor’s arrival, Alphonsius 
Waldesius or Valdez, a secretary to the emperor, en- 
tered into communication with Melanchthon, and, in 
accordance with a preconcerted plan of the Romanists, 
represented to him that the emperor’s conception of 
the Lutheran doctrines was entirely wrong, and that, 
if his Imperial Majesty were properly enlightened, a 
settlement of the pending difficulties could be easily 
effected. He declared that in Spain it was supposed 
that the Lutherans denied the existence of God and 
the doctrine of the Holy Trinity, and that the best ser- 
vice which could be rendered to God was to kill them. 
He asked what the Lutherans really taught. Me- 
lanchthon replied that there were only a few questions 
after all on which the two parties actually differed, 
namely, the use of both forms in the sacrament, the - 
marriage of priests, and the celebration of the mass. 
If these questions were satisfactorily settled, the others, 


102 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


he claimed, could be readily adjusted. Shortly after- 
ward Valdez informed him that the subject had been 
well received by the emperor, and that Melanchthon 
was requested by his Imperial Majesty to draw up a 
brief statement of the articles in question and trans- 
mit them privately, because it would be well to avoid 
public stir or controversy. But the elector heard of 
the matter, and put a stop to it. The articles re- 
quested were never prepared. All that Melanchthon 
was allowed to do was to show to Valdez the Confes- 
sion which had been drawn up for public presenta- 
tion. But this was not what the imperial secretary 
wanted; and after he had read it, he declared that “ it 
contained more bitterness than its adversaries would 
consent to endure.” 

“When it had thus become apparent that the Luth- 
erans would not consent to have their cause disposed 
of in this underhand way, the emperor suddenly, on 
June 22d, commanded the elector and his allies to be 
ready on Friday, June 24th, for the reading of their 
Confession of Faith. This sudden action considerably 
embarrassed the Lutherans. Melanchthon had been 
prevented, by the negotiations with Valdez, from fully 
completing his work upon the Confession. No copies 
of it had as yet been made and no introduction 
written. The Lutherans requested a day’s delay, but 
their request was denied. In great haste, therefore, 
with the aid of Chancellor Brueck, a suitable intro- 
duction was prepared and the German text trans- 
scribed. But the transcription of the Latin text was 
not completed in time, and Melanchthon’s own manu- 
script had to be used. Nine princes and cities signed 


THE DIET OF AUGSBURG.—1530. 103 


the Confession. Some of the Roman Catholics feared 
the effect which the public reading of the Confession 
might produce upon the minds of those who heard it. 
They endeavored, therefore, at the last moment, to 
prevent it from being read, and said it would be suffi- 
cient if the Confession were simply presented to the 
emperor. But the Protestants insisted that their 
honor was at stake, that they had been publicly ac- 
cused and must publicly answer. The voice of the 
truth was not to be stifled by its enemies. The Con- 
fession was read. But owing to the lateness of the 
hour, its reading was postponed until the next day 
after the one which had been at first appointed for the 
purpose. The emperor commanded it to be read in 
Latin; but the Lutherans maintained that, on German 
soil, it should be read in the German language. And 
they prevailed. — 

_Accordingly,Jon. eis 25, 1530, a day that shall re- 
main memorable. as long as time endures, Chancellor 
Bayer read that noble document, the Augsburg Con- 
fession, in a voice so loud and clear that it was dis- 


tinctly heard, not only in the hall where the illustrious | 


assemblage of princes was gathered, but beyond it, in 


the court, where a vast multitude was standing in 


eager expectation. With a calm dignity inspired by 
the consciousness of the rectitude of their cause, the 
Lutheran princes and delegates listened to the reading 
of their “good confession before many witnesses.” 


Well did Spalatin” say, “One of the greatest deeds~ 


ever done in the world has been done this day,” and 
Dr. Brueck declare, as he presented the Confession, 
“With the help of God and our Lord Jesus Christ, 


LIFE OF MELANCHTHON., 


104 


‘SUNASNAVY AO LaICy 


THE DIET OF AUGSBURG.—1530. 105 


this confession shall remain invincible against the 
gates of hell, to eternity.” Many of the Roman Catho- 
_lic princes and priests learned for the first time, from 
the hearing of this confession, what the Lutherans 
really taught, and formed a juster conception of the 
evangelical cause. The bishop of Augsburg declared 
to his- friends, ‘““ What has here been read is the pure 
and unadulterated truth; we cannot gainsay it.” . 
The character of the Augsburg Confession could 
not well have been better adapted to the occasion and 
purpose of its presentation. It was plain, simple, 
clear, scriptural, and firm but irenical in tone. It was 
meant to allay controversy and disputation; to obtain, 
if possible, a favorable hearing for the truth; and to 
put the Lutherans in the right light before the em- 
peror and the diet. There was no man living whose 
__ character and talents fitted 1 him so well for its prepara- 
tion as Melanchthon. Richly gifted with the faculties 
of clear thought and exact expression, he presented 
the doctrines of the Lutheran Church so plainly and 
distinctly that a misconception of them was almost 
impossible. Peace-loving by nature, and dreading the 
consequences of a rupture with the emperor, he framed 
the wording of the Confession so mildly that, if a 
favorable reception of the evangelical doctrines had 
been attainable at all, it would certainly have been ac- 
corded to this presentation of them. If Melanchthon 
had done nothing ‘else_ Dut write the incomparable 
Augsburg Confession, he would richly deserve to be _ 
held in grateful remembrance and | lasting renown by 
every lover-of ye-truth. eee 
The Augsburg Confession consisted of two princi- 


T 


106 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


pal parts or divisions: the first contained twenty-one 
doctrinal articles; the second, seven articles on the 
abuses which were to be condemned. The subjects 
treated in the first part are: 1, Of God; 2, Of Original 
Sin; 3, Of the Son of God and the Holy Spirit; 4, Of 
Justification; 5, Of the Ministry of the Church; 6, Of 
New Obedience; 7, Of the Church; 8, What the 
Church is; 9, Of Baptism; 10, Of the Lord’s Supper; 
11, Of Confession; 12, Of Repentance; 13, Of the Use 
of Sacraments; 14, Of Ecclesiastical Orders; 15, Of 
Ecclesiastical Rites; 16, Of Civil Affairs; 17, Of 
Christ’s Return to Judgment; 18, Of Free Will; 19, 
Of the Cause of Sin; 20, Of Good Works; 21, Of the 
Worship of Saints. The articles of the second part 
are as follows: 22, Of Both Kinds in the Lord’s Sup- 
per; 23, Of the Marriage of Priests; 24, Of the Mass; 
25, Of Confession; 26, Of the Distinctions of Meats 
and of Traditions; 27, Of Monastic Vows; 28, Of 
Ecclesiastical Power. 

What impression the reading of the Confession pro- 
duced upon the emperor, it is difficult to determine. 
According to some reports, he listened with apparent 
indifference, either because he did not understand 
German sufficiently, or because he had already made 
up his mind what course to pursue. But when the 
reading was finished and Chancellor Brueck was about 
to present to the imperial secretaries the German and 
Latin text of the Confession, the emperor graciously 
extended his hand to receive them, delivered the Ger- 
man copy to the Archbishop of Mayence for preserva- 
tion in the imperial archives, and kept the Latin copy 
for himself. Subsequently, he had his copy translated 


THE DIET OF AUGSBURG.—1530. 107 


into Italian and Spanish. In his reply to the Luth- 
erans, he said that he would deliberate further upon 
this important matter, and expected of them that they 
would not print their Confession. But inasmuch as, 
in a very short time, defective copies of it became cir- 


i) ‘ 
| pr \ 


CHANCELLOR GREGOR V. BRUECK. 


culated, and no less than seven different faulty edi- 
tions surreptitiously made their appearance in print, 
_Melanchthon published an authorized edition of the 
Augsburg Confession in German and Latin, while the 
diet was yet in session. 
The emperor now took counsel with the heads of 


108 LIFE OF MBLANCHTHON, 


the papal party. The most moderate among them ad- 
vised him to have the Confession examined by impar- 
tial men. Others urged the immediate enforcement 
of the edict of Worms. <A third party demanded a 
written confutation of the Lutheran Confession. The 
counsel of these last was adopted; and a number of 
zealous Roman Catholic theologians were appointed 
by the emperor to draw up such a confutation, The 
Lutherans were asked whether they would rest their 
case With the articles already presented, or whether 
they had any others which they desired to submit. 
They replied, July 10th, that there did, indeed, re- 
main many other errors and abuses which deserved 
censure, but they did not think it necessary to present 
these separately; for the condemnation of the remain- 
ing abuses was involved in that of those already pre- 
sented, because all were the outgrowth of similar 
causes, ’ 

For six weeks the Roman Catholics labored at the 
preparation of their confutation. In the meantime 
Melanchthon was in a very troubled state of mind, 
and his conduct was not always such as can be com- 
mended, He longed for a peaceable solution of the 
pending difficulties, but began to fear that it might 
not be attained. So he meditated day and night how 
a reconciliation might be effected. He hoped even 
against hope. When everything indicated that the 
Roman Catholies would never consent to renounce 
their errors of doctrine and practice, he still planned 
for the attainment of the unattainable. This excessive 
desire for peace, and this persistent blindness to the 
impossibility of obtaining it upon an evangelical basis, 


THE DIET OF AUGSBURG.—1530. 109 


was Melanchthon’s evil genius. In former days, he 
had more than once stood up boldly for the defence 
of the truth. But now his exaggeration of the im- 
portance of peace led him to take many doubtful 
steps. After all, it resolved itself into a question of 

_faith. Luther never doubted the ultimate_triumph of 
the Gospel. Melanchthon constantly trembled for it, 
and thought that he must help to save it; and this 
anxiety not only threatened to undermine his consti- 
tution, but involved him in conciliatory efforts which 
threatened to compromise the Gospel, and which cer- 
tainly did compromise himself. 

His mental distress was so great, that he neglected 
his correspondence with Luther until others told him 
that Luther was irritated by it. Then he hastened to 
make amends, and communicated to his friend at 
Coburg his trials and fears, and presented these as his 
reason for not writing oftener. Luther wrote him a 
pretty sharp letter in reply, and we are bound to 
admit that Melanchthon needed and deserved it. He 
says: “Grace and peace in Christ; in Christ, I say, 
and not in the world. As regards the apology for 
your silence, my dear Mr. Philip, we will speak of that 
at some other time. But as regards the great anxiety 
of which you write and which is wearing you out, I 
am bitterly opposed to it. That this anxiety has 
taken such a strong hold of you, is not because the 
occasion for it is so great, but because of our unbelief. 
The danger was much greater in the days of John 
Tluss and of others, than it is in our times. And even 
if the danger were great, He also is great who has 
begun and conducts this matter. The cause is not 


110° LINE OF MBLANCHTHON, ’ 

ours. Why do you fret yourself ao incessantly? Tf 
the cause be unjust, let us recant; but if it be just, 
why do you make God, who has given ua sueh great 
promises, a liar, when he tells us to be of good choer 
and content? Tle saya, ‘Cat thy burden upon the 
Lord;’ and again, *The Lord is nigh unto them that 
are of a broken heart,” Do you suppose that he 
speaks thus to the wind or to boasta? 1, also, often 
shudder; but not always, Your philosophy and not 
your theology tormonts you so, a8 though you could 
accomplish anything by your useless worry, What 
ean the devil do more than slay ua? T beg of you, for 
God's sake, that, as you defend yourself in all other 
respects, you will defend yourself against yoursel/, 
You are your own grentest enomy; you give Satan so 
many Weapons to use against you,” 

In reply to one of Melanchthon’s letters, asking 
What further might be yielded for the sake of peace, 
Luther wrote that more than cnough had already been 
yielded; that he could not for a moment think of con 
ceding more than the Confession had conceded, unless 
he was convinced from Scripture, or by more weighty 
reasons than were now brought to bear upon him; and 
that he would rather fill with Christ than stand with 
the emperor, Unfortunately, Melanchthon lacked the 
resolute spirit and heroie faith of his friend, Tle had, 
indeed, no intention of giving up any part of the Gow: 
pel; but he was ready, for the sake of peace, to con 
cede the very last point whieh did not absolutely CON. 
flict with the Seriptures, —/¢) ri] 

It must be said to his eredit, however, that when 
placed before the alternative of denying Christ or suf 


THE DINT OF AVaSBURG.—1580, 11 


fering for refusal to do so, he did not hesitate to de- 
cide for Christ. This is plain from his interview with 
the papal legate, Campegius, Surrounded by a large 
number of his bitterest enemies, and threatened with 
the wrath of the emperor and his most powerful 
princes if he refused, Melanchthon was asked if he 
would yield. But his reply was: “We cannot yield 
nor be unfaithful to the truth. But we pray, for God's 
sake and Christ’s, that our adversaries will not tale 
offense at this, but will, if they are able, dispute with 
us; and concede to us those things which we cannot 
with a good conscience forsake.” When Campepius 
and the others thundered threats without number at 
him, he replied: We commit our cause to the Lord 
God. If God be for us, who ean be against us? 
Finally, let come what will, fortune or misfortune, we 
must abide by it.” Whatever other missteps Mo- 
lanchthon may have made, he nevertheless deserves to 
be honored for the decision with which, after all, when 
confronted with the alternative, he chose rather to 
suffer than to deny his Saviour, 

If only Melanchthon had let matters reat here, his 
record at the diet of Augsburg would have been eredit- 
able enough, But not long afterward he wrote a very 
humble and obsequious letter to this same Oardinal 
Campegius, in which he said that the Lutherans would 
be most obedient servants of the pope, if only they 
were not rejected because they had abolished some 
abuses. Ile expected a favorable reply; but he was 
informed that the eardinal could take no steps with 
out the consent of the Roman Oatholie princes, Con. 
sequently, Melanchthon had his labor for his pains, 


112 LIF OW MWLANOHTIION, 


and the not very comfortable reflection, that he had 
made a wad wpectacle of himself, had lowered himaelf 
in everybody's eyes, and yet had not helped hia enuse 
in the least, he cardinal, of course, did not keep 
this letter a secret; and Melanchthon had to endure 
inany a bitter rebuke on account of it, From beyond 
the Alpine mountains there came a letter from one of 
his adimirera in Voniee, inquiring whether it waa true 
that he had written such a humble letter to the eardi- 
nal, and begging him to remember that all true Chris: 
tian in Murope were anxiously looking to him in 
therae troubled times and resting their greatest hopes 
pon him, 

In the meantime the Roman Catholic theologians, 
among whom were Hel and Cochlious, finished their 
so-called Confatation of the Augsburg Confession, 
Their first draft had been so harsh that the emporor 
bade them prepare a new one, At laat it was ready, 
and waa road before the diet on Anguat 8d. Tt fol 
lowed the arrangement of the Augaburg Confession, 
but waa filled with filachoods and puerile arguments, 
When it had been read, however, the emperor gave 
the Lutherans to understand that, after this complete 
confitation of their position, they must forsake their 
oprora and reunite with the holy Roman Chureh, Uf 
they refed, he would aet “aa behooved the protector 
and guardian of the Holy Christian, Chureh, and a 
true Christian emperor,” Tt began to look aa if war 
were inevitable, 

But while the emperor appeared ready to resort to 
arma, he waa prevented from doing so by the differ. 
ences Which oxiatod among the Roman Catholic princes 


THE DIET OF AUGSBURG.—15380. 113 


themselves. They could not agree upon the policy to 
be pursued. Finally it was determined to effect a 
compromise. On August 6th, a committee consisting 
of a number of Roman Catholic princes and bishops 
held a meeting and drew up a document for that pur- 
pose. But the conditions were such that they could 
not be accepted by the Lutherans. Melanchthon, in-\ 
deed, advised that the princes ask for the waiving of a | 
few points, and accept the balance. But the princes 
thought otherwise, and replied to the proposal, that 
while they were disposed to maintain peace and har- 
mony, they could not and would not be untrue to 
God’s word. Melanchthon rendered himself particu- 
larly obnoxious to many because he was willing to re- 
store jurisdiction to the Roman bishops. Theoreti- 
cally, his plan might have done; but practically, it 
would have had very evil consequences. For if the 
bishops had regained their jurisdiction, they would 
soon have put an end to the pure preaching of the 
Word of God. 

Philip of Hesse was completely dissatisfied with the 
course which affairs were taking. He left the diet in 
disgust on August 16th. He was opposed to yielding 
anything whatever, and wrote to his counsellors whom 
he left at the diet: “I have read your report; but I 
cannot consent that such measures as you mention, 
whether proposed by the papists or by the evangelical 
party, shall be adopted by us. For they are measures 
which imply deception and are consequently suited to 
the papists only. Abide by the directions which I left 
with you, Ifthe papists would permit in their countries 


the pure preaching of the Gospel, allow the marriage 
8 


114 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


of priests and monks, and abolish prayers for the dead 
and the invocation of the saints, much for charity’s 
sake might be conceded to them. The preaching of 
the Gospel would, no doubt, by degrees reform the 
remaining abuses. But if the papists want to keep 
on sitting in their devil’s roses and prohibit the pure 
preaching of the Gospel, freedom of marriage and the 
administration of the Lord’s Supper in accordance 
with Christ’s institution, then you must not recede 
one hair’s breadth. The jurisdiction of the bishops is 
not to be allowed; for they are unwilling to permit 
the preaching of the Gospel in their territories. What 
a farce it would be, if they should appoint, as exami- 
ners of Christian preachers, men who in doctrine and 
life are no better than a Caiphas, an Annas or a Pilate! 
Show to the cities this my handwriting, and tell them 
to be men, not women. Stop the play of thatworldly- 
wise philosopher, that timid Philip.” 

ealhe evangelical party agreed, however, once more to 
argue the points of difference with their opponents. 
On August 15th, a committee, consisting of two princes, 
two jurists, and three theologians from each side was 
formed, and began its sittings the following day. The 
articles of the Augsburg Confession were taken up one 
‘by one for consideration. In many of the doctrinal 
articles the Roman Catholic theologians agreed with the 
Lutherans, and in others of them they showed a dispo- 
sition to find fault rather with the wording than the sub- 
stance. Ona few of them, such as those on Justification, 
Repentance and Good Works, they could not agree. 
But the greatest difficulty was encountered in the ar- 
ticles on the abuses. No agreement whatever could 


THE DIET OF AUGSBURG.—1530. lS 


be reached on the denial of the cup to the laity, celi- 
bacy and private masses. There were, all told, four- 
teen points on which they were unable to unite. 

When the larger commission had failed to effect an 
agreement, a smaller one was formed on August 24th. 
This consisted of only six persons, Melanchthon and 
Eck being the only theologians present. But this 
effort at agreement also failed. Melanchthon had at 
last begun to see that making concessions to people 
whose only concern was to shield the Roman hierar- 
chy and who had no desire to learn or obey the truth, 
could not possibly do any good; and he consequently 
took a much bolder stand than he had in the earlier 
discussions. But now, because of the contrast be- 
tween his conduct in the earlier and later stages of the 
negotiations, he was blamed and upbraided by both 
sides. The Lutherans found fault with him on ac- 
count of the willingness he had displayed to yield so 
much for the sake of peace; the Roman Catholics, on 
the other hand, accused him of insincerity in his 
earlier conduct, because he took a so much bolder po- 
sition toward the end. 

It would have been far better for Melanchthon’s 
peace of mind, as well as for his credit with his con- 
temporaries and posterity, if he had taken an uncom- 
promising stand for the truth from the very beginning 
of the negotiations. But while his conduct cannot be 
justified, it can, to a large extent at least, be ex- 
plained by his excessive desire for peace and his false 
estimate of the character of his enemies. Perhaps he 
credited his adversaries with the same openness to 
conviction, and the same desire to know and obey the 


116 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


truth, which he himself possessed. But he should 
have known better. His own past experience should 
have taught him that the men with whom he was 
dealing were seeking only to uphold the papal system 
at all hazards. Perhaps he did know better; but 
the imminent dangers which he saw threatening 
the evangelical cause warped his judgment, so that 
he attempted what even his own reason in calmer 
times would have told him was altogether impossi- 
ble. 

With all his exalted gifts, Melanchthon was not 
equal to the difficult position in which he found him- 
self at the head of the Protestant party in Augsburg. 
He lacked that determined and decisive character, 
that keen insight into human nature, that clear per 
ception of the unalterable hostility and malevolent de- 

_signs of his foes, which Luther possessed in so re- 
markable a degree, and which, had Melanchthon 
possessed them, would have enabled him to pursue a 
steadfast and consistent course, and to steer clear of 
negotiations in which nothing could possibly be ac- 
complished except at a sacrifice of the Gospel. He 
should have recognized and boldly faced the truth, 
that, dreadful as was the alternative, war would still 
be preferable to any compromise which he might hope 
to effect with such enemies. Luther knew his oppo- 
nents better. He knew that they were too shrewd to 
be satisfied with a concession of non-essentials and too 
strongly attached to Rome to yield up any of her 
errors; that they would be satisfied with nothing 
short of the suppression of Lutheranism; and that 
peace could be secured only by a sacrifice of the truth. 


THE DIET OF AUGSBURG.—1530. ios 


It was Melanchthon’s misfortune not to recognize this, 
or if he did recognize it, to permit his fears to get the 
better of his judgment. 

Melanchthon opposed any kind of an agreement 
with the Zwinglians who had come to Augsburg. ‘The 
emperor hated them worse than he did the Lutherans. 
The political tenets which they combined with their 
theology, and their denial of the real presence in the 
Lord’s Supper, made them particularly obnoxious to 
Charles V. When, therefore, the Strasburg theo- 
logians Bucer and Capito sought an interview with 
Melanchthon, he refused to meet them. He told them 
that he entertained no hostility toward them, but that 
he could not convince himself of the truth of their 
doctrine, nor assume the responsibility of burdening 
the princes with the odium which its approval would 
cause them to incur. Consequently, the Zwinglians 
were obliged to hand in their own separate Tetrapoli- 
tan Confession. 

After the negotiations of the smaller commission, 
mentioned above, had proved fruitless, the emperor 
summoned the Lutheran princes before him and de- 
clared to them, by the mouth of Count Frederick of 
the Palatinate, that he was exceedingly displeased to 
see so small a minority obstinately defend their own 
peculiar doctrines in the face of the whole world; that 
he would indeed pray the pope to call a council; but 
that he demanded of them in the meanwhile, that they 
return to the faith of the Romish Church, because it 
was proper that the minority should yield to the ma- 
jority. The princes protested against this demand, 
and declared that they would abide by the Word of 


118 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


God. And on the same day, as an emphasis to this 
protest, Melanchthon, with the assistance of the other 
theologians, drew up a paper in which the Romish 
private mass was rejected in unequivocal terms. The 
moderate Roman Catholic princes again endeavored 
to_effect an agreement, but accomplished nothing. 
Finally, on September 22d, the emperor summoned 
the Estates before him to hear the decree of the diet. 
He said that the Lutherans had been thoroughly con- 
futed from the Four Gospels and other writings, and 
that he would give them till April 15th, of the follow- 
ing year to decide whether, in the articles still dis- 
puted, they would unite with him and the pope or not. 
During this period of grace they should not publish or 
sell anything new in matters of faith, should draw no 
one over to their side, and should join him in sup- 
pressing the Sacramentarians and Anabaptists. 
Thereupon Chancellor Brueck arose in behalf of 
the Lutherans, and declared that they did not by any 
means consider themselves confuted by the paper 
which had been prepared by their opponents; and 
that they desired to submit another document in de- 
fence of the Augsburg Confession. But the emperor 


would not permit them to do so. This other docu- 


ment to which Brueck referred was the first sketch of 
Melanchthon’s “Apology of the Augsburg Con- 
fession.”” Melanchthon had for some time been in 
consultation with the other theologians, and finally, be- 
tween September 12th and 20th, he had prepared this 
work. But as he had nothing but Camerarius’ notes, 
taken during the reading of the Confutation, to serve 
for his guidance in writing the first sketch of the 


THE DIET OF AUGSBURG.—1530. 119 


Apology, he afterwards, from November 1530 to April 
1531, having meanwhile obtained a copy of the Con- 
futation, rewrote the entire work. It was composed 


Justus JONAS. 


in Latin, and was afterwards translated into German 
by Justus Jonas. It was adopted as one of the con- 
fessional symbols of the Lutheran Church, and it is, 


120 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


perhaps, the most thorough and learned of them all.) 
The ability with which it is executed may be judged 
from the fact that, at a later time, in reply to a fierce 
assault of the Jesuits, the Apology without note or 
comment was reprinted as an ample refutation of all 
their charges. 

After the emperor had refused to receive the Apol- 
ogy of Melanchthon, the religious negotiations of the 
diet were, of course, at an end. Consequently, on the 
following day, September 23d, the elector, with Me- 
lanchthon and the other theologians, departed from 
Augsburg, leaving a few of the Saxon counsellors be- 
hind to hear the general final decree of the diet. The 
travellers proceeded through Nuremberg to Coburg, 
where Luther was anxiously awaiting them. 

Luther had foreseen the outcome of the diet, and 
had written to his friends shortly before they left 
Augsburg: ‘ More has been accomplished, after all, 
than we dared hoped for. You have rendered to 
Cesar the things which are Cesar’s and unto God the 
things which are God’s. To the emperor you have 
rendered full obedience by appearing at the diet at the 
cost of so much money, labor and trouble ; but to God 
the special offering of the Confession, which shall 
penetrate into all the courts of kings and princes, 
shall rule in the midst of its enemies, and shall pro- 
claim its sound to all the world, so that he who will 
not believe it is left without excuse. May Christ con- 
fess us as you have confessed him, and glorify those 
who glorify him. Amen.” To Melanchthon himself 
Luther had written: ‘“ Ye have worthily accomplished 
God’s holy work, as becometh saints. Rejoice in the 


THE DIET OF AUGSBURG.—1530. 121 


Lord and be joyful, ye righteous. Ye have suffered 
long enough in the world. Look up now and lift up 
your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh. I 
will pronounce you holy, as true members of Christ. 
And what other praise would ye seek?” 

On the way to Wittenberg, Melanchthon was con- 
tinually meditating upon his Apology. He wrote upon 
it even while he was eating his meals. Luther once 
snatched the pen from his hands, saying: “ We can 
_serye God not only by work but also by rest.” After 
an absence of nearly seven months, Melanchthon beheld 
once more his beloved Wittenberg, rejoined his family 
circle, re-entered his lecture-hall, and sat down again 
at his own desk. One of his first occupations was to 
publish the Augsburg Confession. < 

On November 19th, the final decree of the diet was 
published. It condemned all the doctrines of the Lu- 
therans which conflicted with Romish teaching and 
practice; and commanded that all innovations which 
had been introduced should be abolished, and all 
things restored to their ancient state. No Protestant 
hand signed this decree. 


122 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


CHAPTER XIII 


THE SCHMALCALD LEAGUE. THE RELIGIOUS PEACE OF 
NUREMBERG. MELANCHTHON INVITED TO FRANCE 
AND ENGLAND. 15381-1535. 


HE final decree of the Diet of Augsburg had 
been so full of menace to the Lutherans, that 
even Melanchthon acknowledged the pro- 

priety and necessity of taking proper measures of de- 
fence. A league was therefore formed at Schmalcald 
by the Lutheran princes on March 29, 1531. The 
four Zwinglian cities were also received into the 
league. Melanchthon did not offer any objections. 
He knew that the emperor already hated the Luther- 
ans as much as he very well could. Besides, Bucer 
had approached more nearly to the Lutheran doctrine 
of the Lord’s Supper, and confessed that Christ’s body 
is truly present in that sacrament. Only the manner 
of the union of Christ’s body with the visible elements 
remained in dispute. 

- When the emperor saw that the Protestants were 
united for mutual defence and that possibly an alli- 
ance might be effected by them with France and Eng- 
land, he began to think it prudent to assume a less 
warlike aspect. He was threatened too with a new 
attack by the sultan Soliman, and had to make terms 
either with the Turks or with the Protestants. He 
decided upon the latter course, and called a diet at 
Ratisbon (Regensburg). But in the meantime, the 


123 


THE SCHMALCALD LEAGUE. 


the Zwinglians suffered a severe defeat at Cappel, and 


Zwingli himself was among the slain. 


This seemed 


to the emperor a favorable time to suppress the evan- 


gelical party in Germany. 


He therefore sent an em- 


N SS 
SZ 
ges 


SuLTAN SOLDIMAN. 


] s terms 


ignominiou 


But the sultan would not accept them, and 


preferred to prosecute his purpose of establishing a 


bassy to offer to the sultan most 
universa 


of peace. 


1 dom 
The emperor was thus reduced to the necessity of 


inion. 


124 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


entreating the assistance of the Protestants. But they 
were willing to lend aid only on certain conditions. 
At the diet, held at Ratisbon and afterwards trans- 
ferred to Nuremberg, the Protestants demanded, as 
the price of their assistance, not a compromise, but 
absolute freedom in religious matters, and the calling 
of a free general council where the religious questions 
should be decided solely in aceordance with the Word 
of God. There was no recourse but to grant their de- 
mands, and accordingly, on July 23, 1532, the Reli- 
gious Peace of Nuremberg was established. By the 
terms of this peace, no State was to give offence to any 
other on account of religious matters, until a council 
had been held; and all were to treat each other with 
true Christian friendship and love. This agreement 
brought joy to the troubled heart of Melanchthon. 

Soon afterwards, on August 16th, the Elector John 
the Constant of Saxony was gathered to his fathers. 
He had gone to Schweinitz on a hunting expedition, 
and died there. Luther and Melanchthon arrived at 
his bedside in time to see him breathe his last; but he 
was no longer able to speak to them. He raised his 
hands as a token of recognition, and soon afterward 
expired. His body was removed to Wittenberg, 
where Luther preached the funeral sermon and Me- 
lanchthon delivered an academical address. His son, 
John Frederick, surnamed the Magnanimous, suc- 
ceeded to the electoral dignity. 

In the year 1533, Pope Clement VII. took steps 
toward the assembling of a council. In June of that 
year he dispatched a papal nuncio, accompanied by 
an imperial orator, to inform the new elector of the 


THE RELIGIOUS PEACE OF NUREMBERG. oS 


proposed council, and to demand that all should un- 
conditionally submit to its decision. In accordance 


J bi Uj WY 


NS > 


en 


V/ 
Yj ’ / rn ) 
MUN S\\Maivivd 


JoHN FREDERICK THE MAGNANIMOUS. 


Sx 


with the advice of his theologians, the elector con- 
sented to the holding of such a council; but refused to 
bind himself beforehand to obey its decrees, because, 


126 f LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


as Melanchthon had said, councils no longer made all 
their decisions conform to God’s Word. 

All the negotiations from 1531 to 1534 were of 
such a nature that Melanchthon was little disturbed in 
his private work and had ample time to devote him- 
self to his studies, his lectures, and his literary labors. 
During this period he published a number of works. 
One of them, his Commentary on the Epistle to the 
Romans, he dedicated to the Archbishop Albert of 
Mayence, the same who had figured so prominently 
in the scandalous’ sale of indulgences against which 
Luther had protested. It is said that when the arch- 
bishop received the work, he became so angry that he 
trampled it under his feet and cried out, “He is pos- 
sessed by St. Valentine.” Nevertheless, the reputa- 
tion of Melanchthon as a scholar was so great that the 
archbishop, who posed as a patron of arts and letters, 
dared not deny him recognition. He sent Melanch- 
thon, therefore, a costly present. 

The high regard in which Melanchthon was held, 
not only in Germany but in other European countries, 
is evident from the numerous calls which came to him 
to go elsewhere. In 1534 he received one from Po- 
land, and another from Wiirtemberg, where Duke 
Ulrich desired to have the University of Tiibingen 
re-organized and the Reformation speedily introduced. 
But Melanchthon declined both these calls, much to 
the gratification of the elector. 

Meanwhile the Reformation had made some pro- 
gress in France, and it looked for a time as if that 
country would become Protestant. . Francis I. was a 
bitter enemy of Charles V. and was anxious to enter 


THE RELIGIOUS PEACE OF NUREMBERG. ir 


into an alliance with the Schmalcald League. At the 
advice of his minister, William Bellay, he not only 
sent ambassadors to treat with the Protestant princes, 
but instructed them to request Melanchthon’s opinion 
as to the manner in which a union might be effected 
between the two religious parties of France. 

On August Ist, Melanchthon sent a paper of eight 
articles containing very much the same principles of ac- 
commodation which he had recommended at Augs- 
burg. In the first article he says, that the pope might 
retain his primacy and the bishops their jurisdiction, 
if they would not use their authority for the purpose 
of suppressing the truth; in the second, that traditional 
customs, though often allowable, are not to be regarded 
as obligatory nor as deserving merit; in the third, that 
confession is to be retained, but the enumeration of 
specific sins abolished; in the fourth, that in the mat- 
ter of justification it was necessary wholly to drop the 
scholastic doctrine of good works and to maintain 
that of justification by faith alone; in the fifth, that an 
agreement on the subject of the mass would be very 
difficult to reach, yet the celebration of private masses 
ought to be abandoned, and the Lord’s Supper admin- 
istered in both kinds; in the sixth, that the adoration 
of the saints must be abolished because it conflicts 
with Scripture and the early Church, but that the fol- 
lowing form might be allowable: “ Grant, O God, that 
we, assisted by the prayers of thy saints, ete.;” in the 
seventh, that all cloisters need not necessarily be abol- 
ished, but that some might be permitted to remain for 
the purpose of training up young men for the Church, 
provided these be left at liberty to leave whenever 


128 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON, 


they choose; in the eighth, that the celibacy of the 
priesthood is contrary to Scripture and the practice of 
the ancient Church. In conclusion he stated that these 
articles were not meant to be final, but to serve as a 
basis for deliberation by learned men. 

A long time elapsed before he received any reply. 
At last, on March 4th, 1535, he received a communi- 
cation from John Sturm of Strasburg, from which he 
learned that matters had taken a bad turn in France. 
Some fanatics, for whom the Reformation was not 
making progress rapidly enough, had posted up ata 
number of places, and among these on the gates of the 
Louvre, hand-bills which contained reflections upon 
the doctrines, ceremonies and clergy of the Roman 
Catholic Church. The king had thereupon become 
greatly incensed, and had caused six Lutherans to be 
publicly condemned. and burned to death. He had, 
indeed, become somewhat appeased, when it was ex- 
plained to him that Lutheran doctrines were in no way 
responsible for insurrection and riot. But the situa- 
tion was still extremely bad, and the only hope of im- 
provement, Melanchthon was told, lay in his going to 
France. The king held him in high esteem and would 
-be inclined to follow his advice. 

Upon the receipt of this letter, Melanchthon imme- 
diately wrote to William Bellay and entreated him to 
protect the Gospel. A little later he replied to John 
Sturm and submitted the reasons why it was impos- 
sible for him at that time to go to Paris, and why, if 
he did go, he feared little good would be accomplished. 
In answer to these communications he received letters 
not only from Bellay and from Sturm, but a very 


MELANCHTHON INVITED TO FRANCE. 129 


friendly epistle from King Francis himself, urging him 
to come to France as soon as possible and assist in 
bringing about unity and harmony in its religious 
affairs. 

Melanchthon thereupon immediately hastened from 
Jena, where on account of the plague which reigned 
at Wittenberg the university had been temporarily es- 
tablished, to the Elector at Torgau, and asked for a 
furlough of several months. Luther seconded his 
appeal, both of them apparently believing in the sin- 
cerity of Francis I. But the elector refused his con- 
sent. He believed that it would do no good and only 
result in involving them in difficulties with the em- 
peror. He feared also, as his letter to Brueck shows, 
that Melanchthon might be prevailed upon to make 
concessions to which Luther and the other theologians 
could not consent. “ Nor is it to be supposed,” he 
says, “that the French are in earnest. On the con- 
trary, it is altogether likely that, when they see how 
good-natured Philip is, they will take advantage of 
him, and afterward decry him as inconsistent. Those 
who are favorable to this matter in France are more 
Erasmian than evangelical. We are firmly determined 
rather to lose Philip’s services entirely, than to let him 
go to France with our good-will and consent.” 

Melanchthon was consequently obliged to reply to 
the king, that, much as he would like to do so, it was 
impossible for him to come. He also wrote to William 
Bellay and complained to him of the harsh treatment 
which he had received from the elector. Indeed, he 
took the elector’s refusal so much to heart, that for a 


“number of weeks he remained in a very dissatisfied 
‘9 


130 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


frame of mind. It was not till in October, when he 
met the elector again and the prince took great pains 
to show his good-will toward him, that Melanchthon 
became reconciled. Shortly afterward he saw him- 
self that his journey would have proved fruitless; be- 
cause the king, while he desired a political union 
with the Protestant princes, was in no sense desirous 
of a true reformation of the Church, and gave his 
approval to the action of the Sorbonne when it con- 
demned as heretical the eight articles which Melanch- 
thon had forwarded to France. 

A similar result followed the negotiations with 
Henry VIII. of England. This royal potentate had 
made an attack upon Luther, and had received from 
the pope the title of “ Defender of the Faith.” None 
the less, he was ready to break with the pope when 
that pontiff would not consent to Henry’s divorce from 
his wife Catherine, an aunt of Charles V. Accordingly 
in 1534, Henry VIII. proclaimed himself the Supreme 
Bishop of the Church of England. During this year, he 
twice invited Melanchthon to cross the channel. He 
was extremely anxious to escape from the scandal 
which his matrimonial affairs had created. And 
therefore in March, 1535, he dispatched Anthony 
Barnes to Wittenberg to confer with the theologians 
there, and to endeavor to enter into a union with the 
evangelical States. 

Melanchthon took this opportunity to write to the 
king and earnestly commend the cause of the Gospel 
to him. He also dedicated to that ruler the second 
edition of his Loci Communes. Henry was highly 
pleased, and sent the Wittenberg theologian a gracious 


MELANCHTHON INVITED TO ENGLAND. igal 


letter and a present of two hundred florins. At a later 
period, however, when he saw how he had been de- 
ceived in the king’s intentions, Melanchthon omitted 
this dedication from his work. 

In September of the same year, Barnes came to 
Wittenberg a second time. Not having been able to 
obtain their sanction for Henry’s divorce proceedings, 
he proposed now to confer with the Saxon theologians 
on unity of doctrine, and to request permission for 
Melanchthon to goto England. Luther seconded this 
request, as he had the one from France. But the 
elector again refused his consent. He believed that 
the English king was only trying to use religious 
matters as a cloak for his scandalous conduct. The 
negotiations, however, lasted until the following 
spring. Besides Barnes, two other men, Bishop Fox 
and Archdeacon Heyth, arrived from England and 
took part in the discussions. The university being at 
that time stationed at Jena, Melanchthon was obliged 
to make numerous journeys to Wittenberg to meet 
these envoys. But he could not be brought to sanc- 
tion Henry’s divorce, nor to yield his convictions on 
the marriage of the clergy and the mass, the two 
points which were most controverted by the English- 
men. He drew up two papers and sent them to Eng- 
land by the hand of the royal ambassadors. Barnes 
himself dissuaded Melanchthon from making the 
journey to that country, because circumstances began 
to be unfavorable there for the progress of the 
Reformation. 


132 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


CHAPTER XIV. 


THE WITTENBERG FORM OF CONCORD. JOURNEY TO 
TUEBINGEN. ACCUSED OF HERESY. 


THER negotiations now claimed the attention 

of Melanchthon. It has been mentioned in 

the previous chapter that as early as 1531 

Bucer had acknowledged the presence of Christ’s 
body in the Lord’s Supper. This able divine made it 
his lifework to bring about harmony between the 
Protestants upon this point. In September, 1534, he 
published a Form of Concord. In the same month 
Melanchthon wrote to Philip of Hesse that he had 
spoken with Luther, and that Luther was satisfied 
with Bucer’s publication, provided the latter really 
believed what his words expressed. He exhorted the 
landgrave to take action in the matter, and added, 
“ All that I am able to do in order to promote Chris- 
tian unity, I am heartily willing to do. I know of no 
more agreeable task in the world.” The landgrave 
then made arrangements for a meeting between Bucer 
and Melanchthon at Cassel. Luther, although he 
cherished no great expectations as to the result, con- 
sented to the arrangement, and gave to Melanchthon, 
in writing, a basis on which a union might be eftected. 
At the meeting, which took place the following De- 
cember, Bucer declared it to be his belief that when 
the bread and wine are dispensed, the body of Christ 


THE WITTENBERG FORM OF CONCORD. 33 


is given and received. He made promise, also, that 
he and his friends would henceforth teach in accord- 
ance with the Augsburg Confession and its Apology. 
With this explanation Luther was satisfied, while Me- 
lanchthon returned to Wittenberg almost better 
pleased with Bucer’s than with Luther’s view on the 
minor points upon which those two could not unite. 

This agreement between Bucer and the Wittenberg 
theologians having been reached, there poured into 
Wittenberg, from all sides, letters declaring that their 
authors would gladly unite on such a basis. Luther 
was deeply moved, and wrote in reply to a letter from 
Augsburg, “If this Form of Concord is established, I 
shall sing with tears of joy, ‘ Lord now lettest thou thy 
servant depart in peace.’”’? And Melanchthon wrote to 
the ministers of Augsburg: “I would willingly risk 
my life to promote this Concord.” 

The spring of 1536 was appointed by the elector for 
the holding of a convention in Eisenach at which a 
Form of Concord was to be formally adopted. But 
while everything looked so promising, Melanchthon 
was suddenly seized with the fear that, by the holding 
of such a convention, greater discord among the theo- 
logians, and greater divisions and public controversies 
than existed before, might be produced. For about 
this time, letters of Zwingli and Cicolampadius, pre- 
faced by a letter of Bucer, were published; and in his 
letter Bucer had praised the other two men for their 
orthodoxy. Melanchthon feared that this fact might 
be brought up at the convention, and matters be made 
worse than before. 

Luther’s physical condition rendered it peyeials 


opened. 


Luther, Melanchthon, Jonas, Cruciger, Ror 
meranus, Weller, Menius, Myconius and © 
Bucer opened the meeting with a lengthy 


134 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


for him to travel to Eisenach when the time for the 


convention approached. Bucer and his friends, there- 


fore, came on to Wittenberg. They arrived May 21, 
1536. 


On the following day the convention was 


( 7 


SS 


SS 


SSS 


SS 


RSS 


G 


Caspar CRUCIGER. 


Among those present besides Bucer were 


arius, Po- 
apito. 
address in 


THE WITTENBERG FORM OF CONCORD. 135 


which he expressed his joy over the occasion which 
had brought them together, as one for which he had 
striven for four long years. Luther replied that after 
reading the letters of Zwingli and Gcolampadius with 
the preface by Bucer, he had little hope of concord, 
and believed that it would be better to leave matters 
as they were, than to make them a hundred times 
worse by a fictitious union. Bucer justified himself 
as best he could, and declared that his letter had been 
written the previous year, and that it had now been 
published in opposition to his express will and com- 
mand. The Upper Germans, he said, meant this mat- 
ter sincerely, and no deception was intended. Luther . 
then demanded to know whether Bucer and his friends 
would publicly recant their former doctrine as one 
which was opposed to the Scriptures and the teaching 
of the ancient Church, and whether they would con- 
fess and teach that, by virtue of Christ’s power and the 
words of institution, the true body and blood of Christ 
are in the sacrament and are received by all, whether 
believing or unbelieving, who partake of it. This was 
the crucial test and would reveal whether Bucer and 
his friends, in their previous declaration of the real 
presence, meant a bodily or merely a spiritual presence 
of Christ. On the next day, the conference having 
been postponed till that time on account of Luther’s 
ill-health, Bucer gave his reply and said in his own 
name and in that of his friends, that the bread of the 
Lord’s Supper is truly the body of Christ, and is truly 
received not only with the heart but with the mouth; 
and that he had meant to deny only the local presence 
and the gross natural eating of the Lord’s body. With 


136 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


this confession Luther and his friends were highly 
pleased; Bucer and Capito began to weep; and all 
thanked God that a union had finally been effected. 

On May 29th, the Wittenberg Form of Concord, 
drawn up by the skilful pen of Melanchthon, was 
signed by both parties. It declared, first, that there 
were two things in the sacrament, the heavenly and 
the earthly elements; and that the body and blood of 
Christ are really and essentially present with the bread 
and wine, not locally, but sacramentally; secondly, 
that the Romish doctrine of transubstantiation was 
false; and thirdly, that even the unworthy receive the 
body and blood of Christ in the sacrament, but receive 
it to their condemnation. This Wittenberg Form of 
Concord was received everywhere by the Protestants 
with great satisfaction. Even the Swiss, to a large ex- 
tent, agreed to it. Melanchthon, as may be supposed, 
heartly rejoiced over it. It gave promise of rest from 

‘controversy for years to come, and healed in a great 
measure the divisions which had existed in the Pro- 
testant camp. 

After the conclusion of these negotiations, Melanch- 
thon concluded to carry out a long-cherished plan, and 
travel to Tuebingen and Bretten. There were some 
family matters about which, in the interest of his 
children, he desired to speak with his brother. Be- 
sides this, his friend Camerarius lay dangerously ill at 
Tuebingen and desired to see him. The elector will- 
ingly gave his consent and offered him the use of a 
horse and carriage for the journey. 

But just as he was about to depart, an event occurred 
which delayed his journey for a month. A new pope, 


JOURNEY TO TUEBINGEN. 137 


Paul III, had ascended the throne, and now summoned 
a council to convene in Mantua in May of the follow- 
ing year. The elector was greatly perplexed to know 
how he should act; and called upon the Wittenberg 
theologians to advise him what he ought to do, if, as a 
rumor had it, a papal nuncio should come to Weimar. 
Melanchthon showed from the history of the Church 
that this council, being by no means a free and general 
one, might be wholly repudiated ; but he recommended 
that, for appearance’s sake, this should not be done, 
because the Protestants had so frequently appealed to 
a council, and a refusal to recognize this one would be 
used as an argument against them by their enemies. 
He thought it would be wiser simply to protest against 
having the pope asthe judge. Butthe elector thought 
differently. He even suggested the holding of an op- 
position council. With his own hand he wrote on the 
paper at the bottom of Luther’s opinion, that the best 
thing to do would be to send some one to the border 
of his dominions to tell the papal nuncio to be gone; 
because “the pope is not the head of the Church, but 
the worst foe of evangelical believers; and in summon- 
ing a council he is seeking nothing else, but to fortify 
his anti-Christian power and destroy the Lutherans.” 
When this matter had been decided, Melanchthon, 
on August 25th, started upon his journey. He was 
accompanied by Jacob Milichius, a fellow-professor, 
who intended to go to his native city of Freiburg. 
Proceeding by way of Frankfort and Bretten, Me- 
lanchthon arrived in Tuebingen, September 24th. 
He remained here three weeks enjoying the society 
of his bosom friend, Camerarius, who was now quite 


138 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


restored to health. Duke Ulrich, of Wiirttemberg, 
again offered Melanchthon a professorship in the uni- 
versity. But, as he could not make up his mind to 
leave Wittenberg, he declined. He went, however, to 


JOHN BRENz. 


the duke’s court at Nuertingen and consulted with 
him about the university. He also wrote a letter to 
Brenz, and begged of him to accept a professorship at 
Tuebingen, for one year at least, for the sake of the 
good which might be accomplished. ' Brenz consented 
and removed to Tuebingen. The duke treated Me- 


ACCUSED OF HERESY. 139 


lanchthon very kindly and gave him a present of one 
hundred florins. 

Melanchthon now began his journey homeward. 
At Nuremberg he tarried for a few days with his 
friends Baumgirtner, Ebner, Dietrich, Roting and 
Osiander. While here, he prepared an opinion on 
Private Confession, because a controversy raged in 
Nuremberg on that subject, and his friend Osiander 
was involved in it. Then he proceeded to Witten- 
berg. He was destined to find trouble awaiting him. 
During his absence, Cruciger had delivered a lecture 
in which he said, that good works are a “sine qua 
non”’* of salvation. Conrad Cordatus, a preacher in 
Niemegk, who was present at the lecture, took Cruci- 
ger to task for using that expression.. In defending 
himself against the charge of heresy, Cruciger said 
that the words were those of Melanchthon himself. 
We have seen in a former chapter that Melanchthon 
often wrote the lectures for other professors. It ap- 
peared that this particular lecture had been arranged 
and written out by him. The very words in dispute 
were down in black and white in his own handwrit- 
ing. When Cordatus discovered this, he went to 
Luther and accused Melanchthon of heresy. It is not 
known what Luther said in reply. No doubt for Me- 
lanchthon’s sake he desired to avoid controversy, if 
possible. While Melanchthon was still upon his jour- 
ney, he heard of the matter, and wrote a letter in ex- 
planation and justification of his words. He claimed 
that his words had been wrongly interpreted, that he 
had no intention of teaching differently from Luther 


* An indispensable condition. 


140 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


himself, and that he did not mean to say that good 
works earned or merited eternal life. 

On November 5th, he arrived in Wittenberg and 
immediately wrote a friendly and conciliatory letter to 
Cordatus. But it-did not accomplish much good. 
Cordatus refused to let the matter rest, and finally re- 
ferred it for decision to Jonas, the rector of the uni- 
versity. Other events, however, were now at hand, 
which left the Wittenbergers neither leisure nor de- 
sire to pursue this matter any further. 


CHEAP TH Re Xo, 


THE CONVENTION AT SCHMALCALD. ATTACKS UPON 
MELANCHTHON. 1537-1539. 


S the pope insisted on his project of holding a 
council at Mantua, it was necessary for the 
Protestants to decide whether they would 

attend or not. Accordingly, they held a convention 
for this purpose at Schmalcald on February 7, 1537. 
At the elector’s request, Luther prepared a paper 
which has become known as the Schmaleald Articles, 
and which forms one of the confessional symbols of 
the Lutheran Church. It was divided into three 
parts. The first treated of those points on which there 
existed no controversy, and the treatment of these 
therefore was very brief. The second treated of the 
Office and Work of Jesus Christ or of Our Redemp- 
tion, and contained the articles which were disputed 


THE CONVENTION AT SCHMALCALD. 141 


by the Roman Catholics and which would come up 
before a council. This second part treated of Justifi- 
cation, Mass, Invocation of the Saints, Charitable 
Institutions and Cloisters, and the Papacy. It uncon- 
ditionally rejected the primacy of the pope, as unscrip- 
' tural and incompatible with true Christianity. The 
third part treated of the Law, Repentance, the Gospel, 
Baptism, the Lord’s Supper, the Office of the Keys, 
Confession, Excommunication, Ordination, Marriage 
of the Priests, the Church, Justification and Good 
Works, Monastie Vows and Human Ordinances. 

These articles were approved and signed by the 
theologians. In adding his signature, Melanchthon 
wrote as follows: “I, Philip Melanchthon, approve 
the above articles as pious and Christian. Of the 
pope, however, I hold, that if he would allow the Gos- 
pel, then the superiority which he now possesses over 
the bishops, might, by human law, for the sake of 
peace and of the general tranquillity of those Chris- 
tians who now do or may in time to come live under 
him, be conceded to him also by us.” Of course, such 
an evangelically minded pope as he had in view was 
not likely to sit upon the papal throne. But if it 
might yet be possible for such a one to be found, then 
Melanchthon thought that, as a matter of outward 
order and government, the retention of the office 
would be good for the welfare of the Church. 

Toward the end of January, 1537, Melanchthon, to- 
gether with Luther and Bugenhagen, left Wittenberg 
and arrived at Schmalcald, February 7th. Eight days 
later the Convention of Schmalcald was opened. Soon 
after his arrival, Luther was seized with a severe attack 


MELANCHTHON, 


LIFE OF 


142 


But as he 


of illness and was obliged to return home. 


‘aTVOTYWHOg 


passed out of the gates of the city, he said to the 


friends who had accompanied him thus far: « May 


THE CONVENTION AT SCHMALCALD. 143 


God fill you with hatred against the pope.’ The 
convention fulfilled his wishes. It resolved upon a 
formal separation from the Romish Church and a 
repudiation of its authority. Melanchthon alone rec- 
ommended that the jurisdiction of a council should 
not be absolutely denied; because the pope had the 
. right to call a council, and it might be possible after 
all to have the decision entrusted to impartial judges. 
But the majority of the convention argued that, with 
his great power, the pope would force himself upon 
them as the judge, if a council were held. Melanchthon 

realized the danger which his advice involved, and re- 
luctantly yielded. 

A resolution was passed that, in addition to the ar- 
ticles prepared by Luther, a separate paper should be 
drawn up on “the power and primacy of the pope,” 
and that this should serve to give the reasons why 
they refused to submit their cause to the decision of a 
council. As usual, it was Melanchthon who was en- 
trusted with this task. He drew up a document in 
which he proved that the pope was not by any divine 
right the head of the Church, and that consequently 
he had no absolute claim to obedience; that the office 
of the bishops was only a human regulation and might 
be abolished. It was signed by the theologians and 
pastors present at the convention, and delivered to the 
papal nuncio and the imperial ambassador. Then, 
when the theologians had recommended to the princes 
a better and more conscientious use of the property 
and possessions of the Church, the convention ad- 
journed. 

Melanchthon set out for Wittenberg. On the way 


PACIFIC LUTHERAN 
TWEE AIC AIL COMIAIADYW 


144 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


' thither he met Luther, who was now restored to 
health, and they returned to the city together. Me- 
lanchthon’s heart was filled with joy over Luther’s re- 
covery, and in his letters he called on all his friends to 
rejoice and thank God for the restoration of this man 
whose life was so precious to the Church. 

Hardly had he returned to Wittenberg when he re- 
ceived from Cordatus a letter accusing him of taking 
Cruciger’s part. This was true. Melanchthon could 
not well have done otherwise, because the words to 
which objection was made were written by him. He 
therefore invited Cordatus to an interview. But in- 
stead of coming as requested, Cordatus wrote a letter 
to Justus Jonas, rector of the university, demanding 
that Cruciger publicly recant his error. Jonas tried 
to quiet Cordatus, and even intimated to him that 
vanity was at the bottom of the matter. Thereupon 
Cordatus wrote to Chancellor Brueck, lamenting that 
there were “so many at Wittenberg who antagonized 
the blessed teaching of the pious man Luther, who, 
after all, is the only Doctor in these things.” Luther 
himself seems to have taken the matter rather coolly. 
But at the same time, when, on June 4, 1537, at a 
promotion to the doctorate, the discussion of the doc- 
-trine of good works came up, he felt constrained to 
declare that the expression, “‘ good works are necessary 
to salvation,” was untenable. Melanchthon himself 
afterward saw that while he meant the formula to be 
understood in the sense that good works are necessary 
as the fruit of faith or as commanded by God, it was 
liable to misinterpretation; and therefore he aban- 
doned it. 


ATTACKS UPON MELANCHTHON. 145 


About the same time, Melanchthon was involved in 
another difficulty of a similar nature. Indeed, we 
may say, from this time until his death, he was almost 
continually the object of attack by friend or foe. 
His whole subsequent life was embittered by the dif 
ficulties in which he successively became involved. In 
the spring of 1537, Jacob Schenck of Freiberg wrote 
to Jonas and Melanchthon for advice. He asked 
whether he ought to distribute the communion in both 
kinds even against the will of the authorities. Jonas 
prudently made no reply. But Melanchthon good- 
naturedly sent on his confidential opinion, that under 
certain circumstances one kind alone might be dis- 
tributed. Schenck was dissatisfied with the reply, 
sent it to the elector, and accused Melanechthon of 
heresy. Here was another sore trial. Melanchthon 
became thoroughly discouraged and wrote to Brenz, 
that he was contending with a hydra, and that, when 
he had struck off one of its heads, two others sprang 
up in its place. 

The elector began to be concerned about these mat- 
ters, and through his Chancellor, Dr. Brueck, made 
written inquiry of Luther and Bugenhagen whether it 
was true, as reported, that Melanchthon and Cruciger 
and many students and pastors differed from them in 
some doctrines. In the fall of the year he came in 
person to Wittenberg. Schenck also was expected. 
But as he did not put in his appearance, the elector 
dispatched his chancellor for a private interview with 
Luther. The substance of Brueck’s report was about 
as follows: “Dr. Martin declared that he would not 


have believed that Melanchthon would cling so te- 
10 


146 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


naciously to his phantasies. Luther,” he said, “‘ seemed 
to be troubled because he could not tell how Philip 
regarded the sacrament, and because it looked as if 
Melanchthon, since his return from Cassel, had be- 
come almost Zwinglian in his views. Luther did not 
know what Philip believed in his heart, but it seemed 
strange that he should recommend the giving of the 
sacrament in one kind. If Melanchthon persisted in 
this opinion, then the Word of God must come first. — 
He would pray for Philip. If, for the sake of tyrants 
and of the preservation of the peace, the sacrament 
might be administered in one kind, it would be neces- 
sary, on the same principle, to concede justification by 
works. Ithink,”’ added the chancellor, “that it would 
do no harm if Dr. Martin should speak earnestly and 
cordially with Philip.” 

Matters actually proceeded so far that Melanchthon 
was to be cited to appear and answer to the charge of 
heresy. On Qctober 13th, he wrote to Veit Dietrich: 
“Yesterday I heard that several articles were to be 
presented to me for subscription. I have no definite 
information; everything is kept secret. I fervently 
hope that, if they are displeased, they will bring their 
complaints openly and frankly. I have to-day pre- 
pared a defence of myself. I shall show why, in cer- 
tain doctrines, I have more fully defined this or that 
point; namely, in order that dangerous, equivocal and 
vague expressions might be avoided. I shall show 
that, in doing this, I have not sought to originate a 
new sect or secretly to fight against Luther, but to ac- 
complish these two purposes: first, to provide for the 
youth, simple, clear and well-defined instruction in 


ATTACKS UPON MELANCHTHON. 147 


Christian doctrine; and secondly, to’ promote the 
study of the other prenelise of loonie: ” But on the 
day which had been appointed for the hearing, Luther 
was taken all: Soon afterward Schenck joined Agri- 


Verr Direrricn. 


cola, the antinomian; and this whole matter, which 
threatened to become a very unpleasant eee was 
dropped. 

But Melanchthon’s troubles still continued to multi- 
ply. In the summer of 1538 he was made rector of 


148 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


the university. It became a part of his duties to act 
as censor of the press. But hardly had he assumed 
his new office, when a young Magister of Wittenberg, 
Simon Lemnius, published a small volume of epi- 
grams, in which he ridiculed some prominent citizens 
of the town and some of the professors, among them’ 
being Luther and Melanchthon. A great hue and 
ery was raised against Melanchthon, and he was not 
only blamed for permitting the publication to appear, 

but accused of complicity in it. To make matters 

worse the book highly lauded Archbishop Albert of 

Mayence as a patron of the Muses. It was this which 

particularly incensed Luther. ‘This lampooner,” he 

exclaimed, “ praises that miserable town-clerk of Halle 

(Archbishop Albert), and makes a saint out of the 

devil.” 

Melanchthon did all that lay in his power to clear 
himself of the unjust suspicion which rested upon him. 
He forbade the author of the lampoon to leave the 
city; and when Lemnius nevertheless took refuge in 
flight and failed to appear in answer to a citation, 
Melanchthon forbade him to return to Wittenberg. 
He also wrote to the elector, stating that while he was 


to blame for not reading the book through before per- 


mitting it to be published, he had not intentionally 
committed any wrong; that the very fact that Me- 
lanchthon himself and his wife were attacked ought to 
clear him of all suspicion of complicity in the work. 
These successive annoyances disturbed him greatly. 
He wrote to his friend Camerarius that he would leave 
the city if he had not so recently ‘accepted the office 
of rector. Indeed it would appear that Melanchthon 


ATTACKS UPON MELANCHTHON. 149 


was regarded on nearly all sides as a suitable object 
of attack upon one pretext or another. The most in- 
nocent occasions were turned against him by his ene- 
mies. Thus, in the summer of 1537, he had received 
a letter from Cardinal Jacob Sadoletus, an eminent 
writer of Italy, who extolled Melanchthon’s services in 
the cause of classical learning. Although Melanchthon 
did not even answer this letter, yet there were many 
who took offence at it. Instead of rejoicing that his 
distinguished merits had extorted praise even from his 
enemies, they spoke as if they thought that it was not 
at all impossible that this letter would incline him to 
regard the papists more favorably. The sensitive na- 
ture of Melanchthon suffered exceedingly under these 
successive accusations, insinuations and attacks. He 
often felt as if he would like to go elsewhere in order 
to be rid of these vexations. But he deemed it his 
duty to remain and not become the cause of any split 
in the evangelical party. In 1539 he wrote to Came- 
rarius: “ Here I am, bound and fixed to Mount Cau- 
casus. Pangs of mind of the sharpest kind, which 
for three long years I have borne continuously, and 
other daily burdens, have so consumed me that I fear 
I cannot live long.” 


150 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


CHAPTER XVI. 


THE FRANKFORT SUSPENSION. LABORS IN DUCAL SAXONY 
AND BRANDENBURG. SECOND CONVENTION AT 
SCHMALCALD. THE LANDGRAVE’S BIGAMY. 
MELANCHTHON AT DEATH’S DOOR. 
1559-1540. 


EANWHILE the political sky was dark 
with overhanging clouds. <A “Holy 
League” of Roman Catholic princes had 
been formed at Nuremberg in 1538 with the avowed 
purpose of sustaining the imperial chamber in its pro- 
ceedings against the Protestants. Opposed to it stood 
the Schmalcald League; and a war seemed inevitable. 
But at this juncture the emperor was greatly in need 
of the aid of the Protestants against Soliman the 
Turk. The Electors of Brandenburg and the Palatin- 
ate offered to act as mediators, and a convention was 
held at Frankfort. 
~ On January 31, 1539, Melanchthon started for that 
city; but he took little active part in the proceedings 
of the convention. Fora long time no agreement could 
be reached. The Protestants demanded a permanent 
peace, which should under no circumstances be dis- 
turbed; and asked that the Imperial Chamber consist 
of an equal number of Protestant and Roman Catho- 
lic members. But on April 5th, Melanchthon wrote 
to Camerarius: “We are here weaving the veil of 


EEO = 


THE FRANKFORT SUSPENSION. LL 


Penelope. Hardly have we rejected one basis of peace, 
when another is laid before us which differs from the 
preceding only in words and not in meaning. I hope 
that the empire may remain at peace; but as yet no 
reasonable conditions could be obtained from the im- 
perial orator. He demands that we shall receive no 
new confederates; and this outrageous demand is 
brought forward again and again with new sophistries, 
although it has been rejected so often. This is the 
whole history of the convention. At first I disputed 
over various points ; but after the imperial orator made 
such unreasonable demands, I ceased disputing. If no 
truce is concluded, we shall make public the reasons 
why we rejected these demands.” 

It was for this latter purpose that Melanchthon was 
commissioned to draw up, in the German language, 
three papers. The first was to treat of the right of 
defence in case the Protestants were attacked; the 
second was to show that upright persons could not 
take up arms against them; the third, that all the 
godly must assist them. Having finished these, he 
also wrote to Henry VIII. of England. That ruler 
had sent Christopher Mount, as his ambassador, to 
Frankfort to enter into an alliance with the evangeli- 
cal states. Melanchthon exhorted the king to abolish 
the remaining Romish abuses in the Church of Eng- 
land. Louis von Baumbach and the Saxon vice-chan- 
cellor, Francis Burkhard, were sent to treat with 
Henry, and carried Melanchthon’s letter with them. 
The king received them kindly, but could not be in- 
duced to reform the Church in an evangelical manner. 
The letter was only coldly received. Consequently, 


152 


the elector 


LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


refused to listen to any proposals for a 


Henry VIII. or Encianp. 


journey of Melanchthon to England. He feared noth- 
ing would be accomplished. Henry VIII. was very 


——— a 


LABORS IN DUCAL SAXONY. 153 


headstrong, and, to make matters worse, imagined 
himself to be a great theologian. The quality of his 
learning, however, may be judged from some of the 
arguments which he employed. Thus he maintained, 
for instance: Because evil works merit eternal wrath, 
therefore it follows that good works merit eternal sal- 
vation. And again, concerning the marriage of priests 
he argued: If the king has the power to pass an ordi- 
nance that, so long as a man is stationed at court, he 
dare not marry, the king also has the power to forbid 
the priests to marry. These arguments he considered 
unanswerable. 

On April 19th, the Frankfort Suspension was agreed 
upon. In accordance with this agreement the im- 
perial orator or vice-chancellor was to suspend for a 
period of eighteen months all proceedings against the 
Protestants, and a religious discussion of doctrines and 
usages was to be held during the summer of the same 
year. 

On April 20th, Melanchthon departed from Frank- 
fort, and was immediately employed in aiding the 
cause of the Reformation in the dukedom of Saxony. 
Early in January of this year, he had gone to Leipzig 
in company with Brueck and Bucer to consult with 
George von Carlowitz and a renegade Protestant 
preacher, George Wizel, concerning the introduction 
of the Reformation. But it soon became apparent 
that Duke George would not accept the Holy Scrip- 
tures, but only the teachings of the Church during the 
first eight or nine centuries of its history, as the stand- 
ard according to which reforms were to be made. 
Nothing, therefore, had been accomplished. But on 


154 ; LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


April 17th, Duke George died and was succeeded by 
his brother Henry. This prince desired the introduc- 
tion of the Reformation into his dominions, and held 
a consultation for that purpose with the elector at 
Annaburg. _ In returning to Wittenberg, Melanch- 
thon came by way of Annaburg and took part in the 
deliberations. In May he went to Leipzig and was 
present there when, at the festival of Pentecost, the 
‘evangelical service was used for the first time. On 
“May 28th, he made public a paper on the reforma- 
‘tion of the Leipzig University, and maintained that it 
was highly necessary to inaugurate the teaching of 
sound doctrine and to obtain. professors who were 
equal to the task. A great disputation took place on 
June 20th between Cruciger and Myconius on the one 
side and the Dominicans on the other. The Domini- 
cans were worsted, and in the following November the 
university formally cut itself loose from Roman Catho- 
licism. It was high time for such a step. The uni- 
versity had been rapidly losing ground by its obstinate 
adherence to Romish errors. Its former glory and 
prestige were in danger of being wholly lost. <A 
thorough reformation of the institution, requiring 
_ several years, was now undertaken; and Melanchthon 
rendered valuable services in bringing it about. To 
his great joy, his bosom friend, Joachim Camerarius, 
was called to Leipzig as one of the new professors, 
and the two friends could now frequently visit one 
another. 

The greater part of July Melanchthon spent in 
visiting some of the churches in the duke’s dominions. 
He found them in a deplorable condition. At many 


LABORS IN DUCAL SAXONY AND BRANDENBURG. 155 


places it was impossible to find a man to whom the 
care of souls might be entrusted. Many pastors had 
to be brought from other regions as a temporary 
supply. 

In the fall of this same year Melanchthon, at the in- 
vitation of Elector Joachim II. of Brandenburg, trav- 
eled to Berlin to assist in the introduction of the 
Reformation in that ruler’s territory. On arriving, 
October 12th, he found a form of discipline intro- 
duced which still contained many Romish errors. He 
directed the elector’s attention to them, and prepared 
a new one which was more in accord with the spirit 
of the Gospel and was largely modeled after that of 
Nuremberg. Even this new order allowed a number 
of Romish practices to stand, because the people were 
not yet strong enough in the faith to abolish all. Me- 
lanchthon wrote to Veit Dietrich, however, that pri- 
vate masses and the invocation of the saints were 
abolished, priests were permitted to marry, the Lord’s 
Supper was administered in both kinds, and the preach- 
ing of the pure Gospel was enjoined. 

After these labors were completed and Melanchthon 
had returned to Wittenberg, he found his family 
plunged in deep distress. His brother-in-law, Sebald 
Muenster, together with that jurist’s wife, had been 
suddenly taken off by the plague. The shock which 
this news gave to his already overtaxed system 
brought Melanchthon to the verge of the grave. His 
friends’ despaired of his recovery. He himself believed 
that his hour had come; and he therefore prepared a 
will. In this will, he maintained his adherence to the 
evangelical truth which Luther had brought to light, 


156 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


exhorted his children to be faithful to the Gospel and 
to beware of the papacy, and expressed his gratitude 
to his spiritual father Dr. Luther, and to many friends, 
the elector, Dr. Brueck, Camerarius, Burkard, Jonas, 
Crueiger and others. That portion of the will which 
refers to Luther reads: “I desire to thank the vener- 
able Dr. Martin Luther, because I have learned the 
Gospel from him, and to express my gratitude for the 
many kindnesses which he has shown me; and I de- 
sire that he shall be regarded by my family as a 
father; for I have seen and experienced with what 
eminent and truly heroic qualities of mind and soul, 
with what great and noble virtues, and what extraor- 
dinary piety this man is endowed by God.” But to 
the great joy of his friends, Melanchthon rallied and | 
recovered his health. Shortly afterwards he published 
his “ Commentary on the Soul,” one of his most beau- 
tiful works. 

On February 18, 1540, Melanchthon started for 
Schmaleald to attend a second convention to be held 
at that place. The purpose of this convention was to 
consult with regard to the religious conference ap- 
pointed to be held at Speyer. As early as January 
+ 18th, the elector had requested the theologians to pre- 
pare an opinion, as to “‘ whether the evangelical princes 
might conclude a worldly peace with the bishops; and 
in what and how far the princes might yield in the ap- 
proaching religious discussion.” The task of writing 
this opinion devolved again upon Melanchthon. The 
document which he prepared was divided into three 
parts, and treated of Doctrines, External Essential 
Matters, and External Non-Essential Matters (Adia- 


THE LANDGRAVE’S BIGAMY. 157 


phora). It declared, that in doctrinal matters they 
could not depart from the Augsburg Confession; that 
in external essential matters, such as the abolition of 
private masses, of the canon of the mass, of monastic 
vows, of the celibacy of the priesthood, of the invoca- 
tion of the saints, and of all superstitious ceremonies, 
nothing could be yielded; but if the bishops would 
accept these two articles already laid down, arrange- 
ments might be made respecting the non-essential 
matters, such as the power of the bishops, ordination, 
reading, singing, holidays and others like them. This 
document was sent to Nuremberg and then brought to 
Schmalcald, where, after a thorough discussion, it was 
approved and signed by the theologians. Melanchthon 
also prepared another opinion in which he condemned 
the erroneous doctrines of the mystics, Sebastian 
Franck and Caspar Schwenkfeldt. This was signed 
by the theologians; and then the convention ad- 
journed. 

Melanchthon’s mind at this time was greatly troubled 
over the affairs of Philip of Hesse. Toward the end 
of November, 1539, Martin Bucer had come to Wit- 
tenberg to seek advice for that ruler in a matter of 
conscience. This prince, who was possessed of many 
excellent traits, had, for various reasons, become alien- 
ated from his wife, and desired, in order to avoid 
greater evil, to marry a second wife with the consent 
of the first. Luther and Melanchthon gave him a 
secret confessor’s advice, endeavored to dissuade him, 
for his own and the Gospel’s sake, from such a course, 
and exhorted him that, if he insisted on taking such a 
step, he should keep it a profound secret. On March 


158 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


3, 1540, the landgrave was secretly married to Mar- 
garet von der Saale at the castle of Rothenburg on the 
Fulda. Melanchthon, who was attending the con- 
vention at Schmaleald, was persuaded, by some pre- 
text, to come to Rothenburg, and was an unwilling 
witness of the ceremony. He was, of course, greatly 
chagrined and hurt by this trick of the prince. But 
that did not mend matters. The fact of the marriage 
was soon noised abroad—the bride’s mother herself 
divulged it,—and a great stir arose. The landgrave 
wrote that, in case of emergency, he would make pub- 
lic the advice of Luther and Melanchthon. The Hes- 
sian theologians at a meeting with those of Saxony 
advised that the marriage be published. But Luther 
took them so severely to task, “that the water ran 
down their cheeks.” For a time the landgrave was 
silent under the scandal caused by his action. But 
when he saw that public opinion condemned him 
more and more, he published, through Bucer, an 
anonymous pamphlet in defense of ‘his marriage. As 
this pamphlet was in a measure an apology for bigamy, 
Luther became highly incensed, and could only with 
great difficulty be prevented from openly refuting it. 
Melanchthon drew up a sharp criticism of it, which he 
‘sent to the elector, and which in turn that ruler for- 
warded to the landgrave. 

In the beginning of June, Melanchthon started for 
the religious convention which had been appointed for 
Speyer, but which, on account of a contagious disease 
prevailing in that city, had been transferred to Hage- 
nau. When he had gone as far as Weimar, the wor- 
riment and anxiety occasioned by the threatened pub- 


MELANCHTHON AT DEATH’S DOOR. 159 


lication of his and Luther’s advice to the landgrave, 
cast him upon a bed of sickness. He saw that such a 
publication would not only put him and Luther in a 


YD 


WM WL 


MrLANCHTHON’s ILLNEss. 


very bad light, but was calculated to injure the cause 
of the Gospel. He communicated his troubles to Lu- 
ther and received a letter of consolation in reply, 
But he broke down at any rate; and his strength failed 
so rapidly that death seemed imminent. 


160 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


The elector hurriedly sent to inform Luther of Me- 
lanchthon’s critical condition. Luther rode night and | 
day to reach the bedside of his friend. When he ar- 
rived, Melanchthon lay in the jaws of death. His eyes 
were dim, his reason was gone, he recognized no one, 
and he could no longer eat or drink. Luther was 
greatly moved by what he saw, and exclaimed, “ How 
has the devil maltreated this instrument!” He turned 
to the window and prayed earnestly. “Then,” Luther 
declared, “ God was obliged to yield tome. I cast my 
burden before His door and assailed His ears with all 
His promises to hear prayer which I could call to mind 
from the Scriptures; so that He was compelled to hear 
me, if I was to believe His promises.” Luther then 
took Melanchthon by the hand and said, “ Be of good 
cheer. Youshallnot die. Although God would have 
reason enough to take away life, yet He desires not 
the death of the sinner, but that the sinner turn from 
his way and live. He takes pleasure in life, not in 
death. If God received into grace again the very 
greatest sinners who ever lived on earth, Adam and 
Eve, He will not cast you out, my Philip, nor permit 
you to perish in sin and sorrow. Therefore do not 
yield to a spirit of despondency; do not become a 
murderer of yourself; but trust in the Lord, who is 
able to kill and make alive again, to wound and bind 
up, to smite and heal.” 

To the great joy of all, Melanchthon now began to 
breathe again. But he did not speak for some time. 
At last he turned his face toward Luther, and _ be- 
sought his friend not to detain him, as he was upon a 
good journey. He said that he desired to depart, and 


THE RELIGIOUS COLLOQUY AT WORMS. 161 


that nothing better could happen. But Luther re- 
plied, “By no means, Philip. You must still further 
serve the Lord.” Luther then brought something to 
eat, and, in a joking way, threatened to excommunicate 
Philip, if he refused to partake of nourishment. Me- 
lanchthon thereupon ate sparingly. Gradually he re- 
gained strength and recovered. There seems to be 
no doubt that but for Luther’s arrival and prayer, Me- 


Tanchthon would have died. I, ao 


CHAE Th Ro xe. Lt 


THE RELIGIOUS COLLOQUY AT WORMS. THE DIET 
AT RATISBON. 1540-1541. 


HE convention which was to have been held in 
Hagenau did not take place. The Roman 
Catholics proposed treating of those articles 

only on which no agreement had been reached at 
Augsburg. But as the Lutherans “could not recol- 
lect that any agreement in disputed matters had been 
reached at that diet,” the proposed convention, or 
conference, was not-held. Arrangements were there- 
upon made for the holding of a religious colloquy at 
Worms, on October 28, 1540. 

Accordingly, October 7th, the elector called his theo- 
logians together to deliberate upon the course to be 
pursued at Worms. Ten days later Melanchthon, in 
company with Cruciger, departed toward that city. 


He was joined on the way by several other theo- 
11 


162 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


logians. At Gotha they halted and prepared a protest 
against having the pope or his representative as the 
judge in the approaching discussion. This was to be 
presented, if necessary, after they had arrived in 
Worms. 

Owing to the delay of the imperial commissioner 
Granvella, the colloquy was not opened until after the 


y J 
e////] 
Zi 


CARDINAL GRANVELLA. 


middle of November. Even then much time was lost 
in deciding how the discussion should be conducted. 
The fact is, the Roman Catholics did not really desire 
a full discussion, but a speedy settlement of matters by 
the production of a set of articles which both sides 
could subscribe. For this purpose Eck prepared arti- 
cles on Original Sin and Justification, and boasted 


TIE RELIGIOUS COLLOQUY AT WORMS. 163 


that better ones could not have been procured, if they 
had been brought from India. But even the Roman 
Catholics were not pleased with them, and the com- 
missioners of Brandenburg, the Palatinate, and Jiilich 
refused to sign. The Protestants of course could not 
consent to any formula which implied that the differ- 
ence was only one of words. Finally it was agreed 
that Melanchthon and Eck should debate the dis- 
puted questions in the presence of the other delegates. 

The debate began on January 14, 1541. The arti- 
cles of the Augsburg Confession were taken as the 
basis of the discussion. Eck began. He immediately 
objected, that the Augsburg Confession which was 
handed to him was altered in many places. Unfortu- 
nately he spoke the truth. The work to which he re- 
ferred was a copy of the Altered Augsburg Confession 
which Melanchthon had published in 1540. While it 
seems to be established that Melanchthon did not in- 
tentionally seek to change the teaching but only the 
wording of the Augsburg Confession, it was certainly 
an arbitrary and inexcusable act on his part to take 
any liberties whatever with the official Confession of 
the Lutheran Church. In reply to Eck’s objection, 
Melanchthon explained that the alterations which he 
had made did not affect the substance but only the 
form of the Confession, and were intended to make it 
milder and clearer. Eck was by no means willing to 
concede this contention, especially in the changes 
made in the tenth article, which treated of the Lord’s 
Supper. But waiving, for the present, the discussion 
of that point, he proceeded to the’ matter in hand. 
Omitting the first article because both sides agreed on 


164 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


it, the second article, treating of Original Sin,. was 
taken up. On this they disputed for four days, Eck 
maintaining that Original Sin is not really sin. An 
old account states that Melanchthon’s speech con- 
trasted with Eck’s like the song of the nightingale 
with the croak of the raven. Hck proved very con- 
ciliatory, however, and proposed a form of agreement 
which did not conflict with the Augsburg Confession. 
But because of its brevity, it was not signed by the 
Protestants. They declared that they would rest their 
ease on Melanchthon’s oral statements. 

The disputants were about to proceed to the article 
of Justification when, on January 18th, an imperial 
rescript was announced, adjourning the discussion 
until the diet at Ratisbon. Nobody was really disap- 
pointed by this termination of affairs. For it was ap- 
parent that all efforts at a compromise must fail in the 
end, unless the pope would renounce the papacy. 
Melanchthon was blamed for his firmness on this oce- 
sasion, as he had been for his leniency on others. 
But he realized, by this time, that even if an agree- 
ment on doctrines could be reached, none would be 
possible when it came to the consideration of the 
abuses. 

Hardly had Melanchthon returned to Wittenberg, 
when preparations had to be made for the approaching 
diet at Ratisbon. Neither he nor Luther nor the 
elector looked for any satisfactory result of the reli- 
gious discussion to be held at the diet. But out of 
respect to the emperor, the elector decided to send a 
respectable delegation. Luther desired to keep Me- 
lanchthon at Wittenberg. He knew how heavily the 


— 


THE DIET AT RATISBON. 165 


trials and annoyances of such public discussions bore 
upon his friend. But the elector could not spare him. 
At the same time, however, he adopted measures to 
shield his theologian against private onslaught by the 
enemy. He directed that Melanchthon should lodge 
in the same house with the Saxon counsellors, and 
commanded his equerry not to permit any one to 
speak to the theologian except in the presence of the 
others. Perhaps, in his anxiety to maintain the pure 
doctrine of the Gospel, the elector took these precau- 
tionary measures as much to protect the evangelical 
cause against any possible yielding of Melanchthon, as 
to protect Melanchthon against the annoyances of the 
Roman Catholics. The elector also felt some uneasi- 
ness about the conduct of the Landgrave Philip of 
Hesse. It was noticed that since the scandal occa- 
sioned by his bigamy, that prince had begun to in- 
gratiate himself with the emperor. The elector there- 
fore gave his counsellors strict orders to abide by the 
resolutions of the evangelical States at the Convention 
of Schmalcald. 

On March 14th, Melanchthon departed with Cruci- 
ger for Ratisbon. Two days later he was joined by 
the other delegates at Altenburg. When the Bava- 
rian frontier was reached, the carriage in which Me- 
lanchthon rode was upset, and his hand badly sprained. 
For a long time afterward he was unable to write, and 
dictated his letters to Cruciger. On the fifth of April 
the diet was opened by the emperor in person. Many 
of the Protestants desired a simple continuation of the 
discussion which had been begun at Worms. But 
the emperor had a way of his own to bring about 


166 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


peace and harmony. Three persons were to be ap- 
pointed from each side to discuss the questions in- dis- 
pute and to endeavor to effect a compromise. “These 
were then to consult with the papal nuncio Contarini. 
It was decided by the Protestants to let the emperor 
try his plan. Pflug, Eck and Groper from the Roman 
Catholic side, and Melanchthon, Bucer and Pistorius 
from the Protestant, were appointed as the disputants. 
The Count Palatine and Granvella were to act as 
moderators; others to attend as hearers. 

Before the discussion was opened, the emperor sum- 
moned the disputants into his presence, shook hands 
with them cordially, and exhorted them to act with- 
out fear or passion and to seek only the glory of God. 
It looked as if the emperor was really desirous of a 
reconciliation. It is doubtful whether the Roman 
Catholic delegates cherished the same feelings. The 
order of discussion which they proposed seemed ex- 
pressly designed to stop the debate at as early a stage 
as possible. They proposed to treat first of the Lord’s 
Supper, the power of the Church and the pope, private 
masses, monastic vows, the celibacy of the priesthood, 
and one kind in the Sacrament, and only after these 
-had been finished, take up those of justification, faith 
and good works. 

But the emperor had a plan mapped out for them. 
When, on April 27th, the discussion was about to be 
opened, he laid before them a book for examination, 
correction and adoption. This book, which possessed 
no title, was afterwards known as the Ratisbon Book 
or Ratisbon Interim. It was an attempt to reconcile 
the difference between the Roman Catholics and the 


THE DIET AT RATISBON. 167 


Protestants. Melanchthon was already familiar with 
it. As early as January 4th, it had been sent to Lu- 
ther by Joachim II. of Brandenburg. Its author is 
unknown. Melanchthon thought it was written by 
Groper with the assistance of Volcruck, an imperial 
counsellor, and sent by them to Philip of Hesse and 
Joachim of Brandenburg for examination. The book 
consisted of twenty-three articles of the nature of a 
compromise. It was calculated to satisfy neither 
party. But as the emperor attached so much impor- 
tance to it, it was made the basis of the discussion. 
A number of articles were passed over without much 
difficulty. When they came to the one on justifica- 
tion, it was found to be extremely unsatisfactory. At 
length, after much discussion, a new formula was 
agreed upon, which did not conflict with the Augs- 
burg Confession, but which left much to wish for in 
the way of explanation and elucidation. 

The Saxon counsellors in their report to the elector 
spoke very highly of Melanchthon’s firmness. But 
the elector feared that this peace-loving man would 
yield too much; and he could hardly be prevented by 
Luther from going to Ratisbon himself. He insisted, 
however, on sending Amsdorf to keep a lookout and 
to report on what was being done. But this time the 
elector’s fears were groundless. Melanchthon con- 
ducted himself in the diet of Ratisbon with a stead- 
fastness that was highly commendable. He declared 
before Granvella himself that he would rather die than 
yield anything against his conscience and the truth. 
No doubt Melanchthon acted just as conscientiously 
at Augsburg. But the reasons which influenced his 


168 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


conduct then no longer influenced him now. He now 
saw the purposes of his enemies and the hopelessness 
of acompromise on an evangelical basis; and he there- 
fore no longer felt called upon to make the utmost 
possible concessions. 

As regards the article agreed to, the elector was dis- 
trustful of it, fearing that it would obscure the doctrine 
of justification by faith alone. He wrote to his coun- 
sellors that he could by no means consent to it. 
Luther begged him not to write a severe letter to 
Melanchthon, lest he should add to the trials and 
distresses which that sensitive nature already en- 
dured. 

The next subject taken up for discussion was the 
Church. The Ratisbon Book maintained that there 
must be a power in the Church which has the right to 
interpret the Bible, and that private individuals do 
not have that right. A heated discussion took place 
upon this article. In the course of it Granvella called on 
Melanchthon to read the article in question more eare- 
fully. Melanchthon replied that he had read it often, 
that he had done so at Wittenberg already, but that 
he could by no means approve of it. “For,” he said, 
“if this power were conceded to councils of the 

‘Church, then many errors of former councils would 
have to be approved and posterity be fearfully bur- 
dened.” 

The debate on the Lord’s Supper lasted eight days. 
The Roman Catholics presented a formula in which 
the doctrine of transubstantiation and the practice of 
elevating the host were upheld. In opposition to this, 
Melanchthon set up a formula in which he maintained 


THE DIET AT RATISBON. 169 


that “ Christ’s body is present only when the sacrament 
is administered, and that Christ is present, not for the 
sake of the bread, but for the sake of man.” Melanch- 
thon defended his formula very energetically. Eek, 
partly from excitement, partly perhaps from over-in- 
dulgence in drink, became ill. During the debate on 
this article Keck propounded a subtle sophism to which 
Melanchthon replied after some thought: “I will give 
you my reply to-morrow.” “Oh,” said Hek, “there is 
no honor in that. You must answer me at once.” To 
this Melanchthon replied; “ My good Doctor, I am not 
seeking my own honor in this matter, but the truth. 
[ say, therefore, you shall, God willing, have my reply 
to-morrow.” This little dialogue shows the vast dif- 
ference which existed between the spirit and character 
of these two men. 

A violent discussion took place upon the doctrine 
of auricular confession. The articles which Melanch- 
thon set up in opposition to it so irritated Granvella, 
that he employed some harsh expressions toward Me- 
lanchthon. The champion of the Lutherans felt con- 
strained, therefore, at the opening of the next day’s 
discussion, to declare that, if it was intended that he 
should not freely express his opinions, he would re- 
main away entirely. The imperial envoy then begged 
pardon for his conduct, and the discussion was re- 
sumed. The subject of Church government and the 
power of the bishops was taken up. It became evyi- 
dent that the Roman Catholics were determined to 
maintain that the primacy of the pope and episcopal 
succession were necessary for a true Church. Me- 
lanchthon became impatient when he perceived this, 


170 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON,. 


and resolutely opposed the whole article. He pre- 
pared counter articles on this subject as well as on the 
succeeding ones, of the Invocation of the Saints, the 
Mass, One Kind in the Sacrament, Celibacy and Mo- 
nastic life. 

In taking so firm a stand, Melanchthon acquitted 
himself nobly. But it soon appeared that he was 
blamed by the emperor as the one man who, by his 
obstinacy, rendered the negotiations fruitless. He 
was also accused of having secret instructions from 
Luther, and of sustaining suspicious relations with the 
French ambassador. But in a letter to the emperor 
he defended himself against these accusations so un- 
justly made. 

On May 16th the discussion of the Ratisbon Book 
was brought to a close, and on the 31st of the same 
month the Protestants presented to the emperor a 
summary of the declarations which they had made. 
Nine articles of the Ratisbon Book were specified as 
being of such a nature, that they could under no con- 
siderations be accepted. These articles treated of the 
Church, the Lord’s Supper, Enumeration of Particular 
Sins in Confession, Satisfaction, the Unity of the 
-Church and Ordination, the Saints, the Mass, Private 
Masses, and Celibacy. 

The emperor, of course, was not pleased with this 
result of the discussion. He wanted the Ratisbon | 
Book adopted. He therefore sent it to the princes of 
the realm, and commanded them to make a copy of 
it, give it further careful consideration, and then report 
to him their opinion. He also sent a delegation to 
Luther, asking the reformer to approve of the book, 


THE DIET AT RATISBON. Ire 


or at least to tolerate it for the present. But the dele- 
gation did not effect its purpose. 

Melanchthon spoke very clearly and decidedly about 
the Ratisbon Book in an address which he made to 
the States. He declared that he could not accept and 
would not tinker any more at the articles which had 
been rejected at the discussion; and that he still had 
many objections to make even against those articles 
which were regarded as agreed upon. The Roman 
Catholics themselves were not much better pleased 
with the book. Eck called it insipid. Later on it 
was rejected by a convention of bishops. 

During the session of the diet, Melanchthon pre- 
pared, at the emperor’s request, a plan for the reforma- 
tion of the Church. He insisted in it upon the main- 
tenance of sound doctrine, thorough catechetical in- 
struction, the introduction of worthy rites and cere- 
monies, the installation of competent pastors, and the 
abolition of celibacy. He was willing to allow the 
bishops to retain their offices; but they were to be re- 
quired to make strict visitations, and to institute con- 
sistories for the examination of candidates for the 
ministry. The universities and schools were to be 
improved, and the salaries of the professors increased. 
The elector was by no means pleased with that part 
of this plan which proposed permitting the bishops to 
retain their temporal and spiritual power. He feared 
they would abuse their power to the detriment of the 
truth. 

At last, on July 29th, the diet came to an end. 
The decision of the religious difficulties was postponed 
until a council be held, or in case none should be 


172 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. | 


held, postponed until the: next diet. In the mean- 
time the religious Peace of Nuremberg was to be , 
observed. 


CATAL iE Sevier as 


THE BISHOPRIC OF NAUMBERG. THE REFORMATION AT 
COLOGNE. A YEAR OF SUFFERING FOR 
MELANCHTHON. 1541-1544. 


HILE Melanchthon was attending the col- 

\ \) loquy at Worms, the Bishop of Naum- 

, berg-Zeitz died, and the cathedral chapter 
elected Julius von Pflug as his successor. The people 
of this district were largely evangelical in sentiment, 
and the elector therefore deposed the newly-elected 
Romish bishop. This Lutheran prince was deter- 
mined, if possible, to put an end to the temporal power 
of the bishops; and he threatened that, unless the 
chapter would nullify its action and elect some one 
else, he would occupy the castle at Zeitz with his 
_troops, and appoint one of his generals to administer 
the affairs of the bishopric. But the. chapter refused 
to do so. The elector then turned to the theologians 
of Wittenberg for their opinion of his rights and au- 
thority in the case. Melanchthon drew up a paper in 
which he adjudged to the elector the power to appoint 
some one to the office, but entreated him to appoint a 
sensible, modest and peace-loving man. The elector 
accordingly appointed Nicholas von Amsdorf. Luther 
ordained him to the office. Melanchthon came to 


THE REFORMATION AT COLOGNE. iiss 


assist in the organization of the churches and schools. 
The action of the elector, though condemned at the 
time, was nevertheless necessary; and Roman Catholic 
princes were soon found imitating his example and de- 
priving the bishops of their temporal power. 

Not long afterwards the Reformation was introduced 
in Cologne. The electoral archbishop of that city, 
Herman, Count von Wied, had become convinced that 
the Augsburg Confession was thoroughly scriptural, 
and he headed the movement himself. <As early as 
1536 he had instituted some reforms. In 1539 he 
invited Melanchthon to come to his assistance, and 
sent him a second and third invitation in 1542 and 
1543. But Melanchthon hesitated to go. When the 
landgrave urged him to accept the invitation, he re- 
plied, that he feared the authorities would not, in spite 
of the wishes of the archbishop, permit a thorough 
reformation; and that, besides, for such a work as this, 
a man was needed who could preach. Perhaps the 
real reason for this unwillingness was the fact that 
Bucer was already on the ground, and that Melanch- 
thon feared it might come to a discussion of some doc- 
trines between them which, for various reasons, he did 
not care at present to discuss. But finally, when, in 
April 1543, his friend Peter Medman came to Witten- 
berg for the second time and besought him to come, 
Melanchthon decided to go. The elector granted him 
leave of absence for six or seven weeks, presented him 
with one hundred gold florins, and sent his troopers 
as an escort. 

In company with Justus Jonas, Jr., and Jerome 
Schreiber, Melanchthon set out on his journey, and 


174 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


arrived on May 4th at the residence of the archbishop 
in Bonn. The religious ignorance which he beheld 
among the inhabitants of that city astonished him. 
He wrote to his friends that it would be hard to dis- 
cover anywhere in Germany another city in which 
such barbarous and heathenish superstitions prevailed. 
He found that the archbishop and Bucer were in favor 
of instituting a thorough reformation; but that they 
were opposed by Groper and particularly by the 
cathedral chapter of Cologne. ‘He immediately read 
the plan of reformation as far as it had been prepared, 
and set to work upon the articles of the Trinity, Crea- 
tion, Original Sin, Justification by Faith, the Church, 
and Repentance, which were assigned to him. The 
articles on Baptism and the Lord’s Supper were to be 
written by Bucer. 

When the work was completed, it was examined by 

the archbishop, and adopted by the chamber of depu- 
ties. The cathedral chapter was requested not to op- 
pose the plans for reformation. But only afew weeks 
after Melanchthon’s arrival, there appeared in the 
name of the university and the clergy of the district, 
a scurrilous pamphlet from the pen of a Carmelite 
-monk named Bellig. It was so vile and scandalous, 
that some of the opposition themselves insisted on a 
change in its title, and disclaimed all connection with 
it. Melanchthon replied with a pamphlet in which he 
repelled all the charges made against him, and exhib- 
ited the prevailing abuses of the Romish Church in a 
strong light. 

On July 28th, Melanchthon departed from Bonn. 
On his way he stopped at Frankfort-on-the-Main and 


THE REFORMATION AT COLOGNE. 175 


assisted in settling a dispute which raged there con- 
cerning some ceremonies connected with the Lord’s 
Supper. Thence he proceeded to Weimar, because he 
was wanted at court. And finally on August 15th, 
amid the loud rejoicings of many of the students and 
professors who came out to meet him, he re-entered 
Wittenberg. He cherished great hopes of the Refor- 
mation in Cologne. But his hopes were not realized. 
The cathedral chapter brought before the emperor and 
the pope an accusation against the aged archbishop, 
and had him deposed. Then the work of the Refor- 


mation, so auspiciously begun, immediately languished... —., 


The relations between Melanchthon and Luther at 
this time were far from satisfactory. The root of the 
“trouble lay in Melanchthon’s change of view with re- 
gard to the Lord’s Supper. From the time of his first 
conference with Bucer at Cassel, he had departed more 
~and more from Luther’s position, until at this time, 1544, 
he was more in accord with Bucer than with the great 
reformer. Melanchthon’s treatment of the Augsburg 
Confession has been alluded to in the preceding chap- 
ter. As early as 1533 and 1535 he had published 
editions of the Confession in which he had made slight 
alterations. But in 1540 he published an edition in 
which the changes that he made were considerably 
greater. These alterations affected particularly the 
tenth article, which treats of the Lord’s Supper. This 
last-named edition, known as the Altered Augsburg 
Confession or the Variata, was the one which he had 
taken with him to the colloquy at Worms and—for 
which Eck had taken him to task. Although Me- 
lanehthon claimed at that time, and no doubt sincerely 


\ 


176 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


thought, that the alterations affected only the words 
and not the substance of the Confession, this was not 
strictly true. No doubt the changes made did not con- 
flict with Melanchthon’s own interpretation of the 
original reading. But at the same time the wording 
of the tenth article was so altered that the Reformed 
as well as the Lutherans could read their doctrine ot 
the Lord’s Supper into it. He desired to make it easy 
for the Reformed to unite with the Lutherans. But 
he made a great mistake in tampering with the official 
Confession of the Church. He seems to have thought 
that because he had written the Augsburg Confession, 
he might change it,ifhe chose. But after it had been 
received and signed by the evangelical princes and 
states, it was no longer his private property. No man 
thenceforth had a right to change a syllable in it. 
Luther was grieved and perhaps irritated by Me- 
lanchthon’s change of view; but out of regard for the 
feelings and consideration for the distinguished ser- 
vices of his friend, he did not publicly attack him. 
He was particularly provoked by the treatment of the 
doctrine of the Lord’s Supper, which he found in the 
Cologne book. The article on that subject had been 
formulated by Bucer, but had been approved by Me- 
lanchthon. Luther found fault not so much with 
what the article said as with what it omitted to say. 
He looked in vain, he said, for a positive statement of 
the real presence. In his indignation he took up the 
matter in the pulpit and attacked Bucer. He did not 
allude to Melanchthon; yet all felt that the man who 
had assisted in the preparation of the objectionable 
book was, to some extent at least, included in the at- 


THE REFORMATION AT COLOGNE. ILA 


tack. The relations between the two great cham- 
pions of the Reformation became greatly strained. 
Their intercourse ceased. Melanchthon’s mind was 
harassed by the dread of an open rupture. He heard 
that Luther was preparing a new book on the Lord’s 
Supper and would shortly put it in print. He was 
sure that when it appeared he would find himself 
openly assailed. 

But, to his great relief, he found, when Luther’s 
“Short Confession Concerning the Lord’s Supper” 
was published, that, although it contained a fierce at- 
tack upon the Zwinglians, there was in it no. passage 
which he could construe as an attack upon himself. 
Soon afterwards the relations between him and Luther 
became easier. In a letter to Myconius, under date 
of October 10th, Melanchthon wrote that he had held 
a conyersation with Luther. In the course of it he 


the bread and wine are taken, Christ is received by 
the communicant. He added in his letter, that he 
thought Luther was satisfied with this explanation, 
but that if he was not, Melanchthon would have to 
think of leaving Wittenberg. As the latter took no 
steps looking toward a removal from that city, it is 
fair to presume that Luther was satisfied, or that, at 
least, he resolved to bear with his colleague and friend. 
Indeed, early in November, when Chancellor Brueck, 
in behalf of the landgrave, asked Melanchthon 
whether there was any trouble between him and 
Luther, he received the reply that there was “ none 


of any consequence,” and a few days later the chan- 
12 


MELANCHTHON. 


LIFE OF 


178 


Vy 


y 
Wij li 
Vl 


NIUs. 


Myco 


Fr. 


A YEAR OF SUFFERING FOR MELANCHTHON. 179 


cellor wrote to the elector: “I cannot learn any- 
thing from Philip but that he and Luther are good 
friends.” 

But in the spring of the following year, 1545, it was 
again rumored that Luther was preparing a reply to 
Bullinger’s attack upon the “Short Confession,” and 
would refer to Melanchthon by name. The rumor 
reached the ears of the elector and filled him with 
concern. He commanded his chancellor to speak 
with Luther upon the subject and endeavor to dis- 
suade him from such a purpose. It is not known 
what answer Luther made. This much is plain, how- 
ever: Luther did not in his pamphlet make any at- 
tack upon Melanchthon, and it is doubtful whether he 
ever intended to do so. 

To these public troubles and trials of Melanchthon, 
were added domestic griefs and cares. In the year 
1536 his favorite daughter, Anna, had been married 
to the poet Sabinus, a man who possessed considerable 
talent, but who proved to be wholly unworthy of her. 
He was licentious, extravagant and cruel. The trials 
of this daughter filled Melanchthon’s heart with grief. 
Her reckless husband even proposed seeking a di- 
vorce, and was prevented from doing so only by the 
death of Anna in 1547. To make matters still worse, 
Melanchthon’s son Philip, who at this time was a stu- 
dent of law, became secretly engaged at the age of 
nineteen to a young lady at Leipzig. Greatly to his 
father’s relief, however, the young man listened to ad- 
vice, realized his total inability to support a wife, and 
did not marry until the year 1550; and then it was 
not the maiden at Leipzig, but a widow at Torgau, to 


180 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


whom he was wedded. Melanchthon’s mind’ was 
greatly troubled also by the misfortune of his intimate 
friend, Jerome Baumgiirtner of Nuremberg. While 
returning from the Diet of Speyer, Baumgiirtner had 
been taken captive by the robber-baron, Albert von 
Rosenberg. For fully a year he was held prisoner, 
and during all this time Melanchthon was filled with 
anxiety for his welfare. 

Taking into consideration the many publie and pri- 
vate trials and troubles which weighed upon his mind 
and heart, it is not to be wondered at that the year 
1544 is spoken of as “ Melanchthon’s year of sorrow.” 


OH A:P Ee asibos 


THE DIET AT WoRMS. 1545. THE DIET AT RATISBON. 
1546. LUTHER’S DEATH. 


ILE affairs of the empire after the Diet at Ratis- 

bon in 1541 did not permit the emperor to 

Gs think of suppressing the Lutherans by force. 
Tlis brother Ferdinand was kept busy in Hungary by 
the Turks, his fleets were defeated in the Mediterra- 
nean by the pirates, and to crown all he became in- 
volved in 1542 in another war with France. He was, 
therefore, greatly in need of the aid of the Protestant 
princes. At the Diet of Speyer in 1544 they consented 
to lend their assistance, but only on condition that 
they received a guarantee of permanent peace and 
equal rights with the Roman Catholics. The empe- 


. 


THE DIET AT WoRMS. 1545. 181 


ror had no choice but to yield. He appointed a new 
diet to be held before long in Worms, where the reli- 
gious difficulties were to be finally adjusted. Plans 
for a reformation of the Chureh should be prepared 
by learned and peaceable men, and be presented and 
considered at the diet. The emperor himself would 
bring one; the princes might do the same. 

With the aid of the Lutheran troops furnished for 
him, Charles V. soon defeated the French and con- 
cluded the treaty of Crespy. He could now turn his 
attention to the religious affairs of his realm. Matters 
did not, however, take on a promising appearance for 
the Protestants. For in November, 1544, the pope 
proclaimed that a council should be held in Trent in 
the following March; and it became evident that the 
religious questions were to be adjusted at this council 
and not at the diet. Nevertheless the elector called 
on Melanchthon to prepare a plan of reformation 
which might be submitted at Worms. The writing 
which he drew up is known as the Wittenberg Ref- 
ormation. This was sent to the elector by the theo- 
logians, with the declaration, that it contained the 
views by which they “intended to abide to the last.” 
The doctrines which this paper contained were based 
on the Augsburg Confession. But, in the matter of 
Church government, it expressed a willingness to con- 
cede to the prelates their temporal and spiritual pre- 
rogatives, and the right of ordination, visitation, and 
excommunication, provided they used their offices in 
the service of the Gospel. 

The proposition of Bucer that, at the coming diet, 
the evangelical states should complain to the emperor 


182 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


against the pope, and endeavor to have the pope for- 
mally repudiated as the regular ecclesiastical power, was 
rejected by the theologians. It was likely, they said, 
that the emperor would not listen to such a proposal; 
and in any case, they would, by so doing, acknowledge 
the emperor as judge in spiritual matters. 

The Wittenberg Reformation prepared by Melanch- 
thon was not, however, presented at Worms. When 
the diet convened, early in 1545, it was found that the 
emperor’s chief concern was to prevail upon the Prot- 
estants to send delegates to the Council of Trent. 
The Protestants refused to do this. Though the em- 
peror spoke fair words, denied all intention of using: 
violence, and appointed another diet to be held at 
Ratisbon the next year for the discussion of the reli- 
gious issues, it was plain that he was only seeking to 
gain time, and was secretly preparing for war. In 
December of 1545, the same month in which the 
Council of Trent was opened, the Protestants met in 
Frankfort, in order to prepare for defence by renew- 
ing the Schmalcald League. Unfortunately, the pur- 
pose of their meeting was not fully accomplished. 
‘They agreed, however, to accept the religious discus- 
sion at Ratisbon and to protest against the Council of 
Trent. Melanchthon drew up for this latter purpose 
a paper, in which he clearly specified the grievances 
of the Protestants against the pope. 

In the approaching discussion at Ratisbon, Melanch- 
thon was, as usual, to take a leading part. But 
Luther wished to spare him the ordeal, and interceded 
for him. Luther knew that nothing would be accom- 
plished at any rate, and that it would be a useless tax 


THE DIET AT RATISBON. 1546. 183 


upon the nerves and health of Melanchthon. George 
Major and Laurentius Zoch were thereupon appointed 
for the purpose. Melanchthon’s advice, however, was 
wanted, and he was summoned to the elector at Tor- 
gau. He gave it as his opinion that Malvenda, the 
Spanish. theologian who accompanied the emperor, 
would surely object to the doctrine of justification by 
faith, and that the quickest way to put an end to the 
whole discussion, which was certain to be fruitless in 
any case, would be to take up this doctrine first. 

It has been claimed by some that Luther desired to 
keep Melanchthon away from Ratisbon, because. he 
doubted the orthodoxy of his views on the Lord’s 
Supper. But Luther was not the man to fear to say 
what he thought. If such had been the reason, he 
would plainly have told Chancellor Brueck, and not 
have sought to invent any pretexts. The reason 
which Luther gave was surely sound enough. The 
ceaseless round of fruitless colloquies, discussions, dis- 
putations, and the vain attempts at accommodation or 
compromise, in which the mild-tempered Melanch- 
thon, who enjoyed nothing so much as the privacy of 
the study, had been engaged for the last fifteen years, 
were enough to move the heart of a stranger and 
much more that of his noble-minded friend, to sympa- 
thize with him, and to desire that he might at last be 
spared the useless infliction. 

The basis of the contention, that Luther did not 
want Melanehthon- at Ratisbon, is sought in the fact, 
that when Major was about to depart for the diet, he 
paid a visit to Luther and found these words upon his 
door. “Our professors must be examined on the 


184 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. ; 


Lord’s Supper.” Astonished by beholding this, Major 
inquired why these words were posted there. He re- 
ceived the reply, that the words were meant literally, 
and that when he returned from Ratisbon he must 
expect to be examined. When Major protested that 
he believed the true doctrine, and explained his views 
at some length, Luther gave him to understand that 
the notice was intended to emphasize the necessity of 
plain and repeated public expression of the doctrine, 
in order that it might be known just where each one 
stood. “ Whoever” said Luther, “regards his doc- 
trine, faith, and confession as true, cannot stand in the 
same stable with heretics, nor always speak smooth 
words to the devil and his knaves. A teacher who is 
silent about errors is worse than an open fanatic. He 
either les under one cover with the enemies, or he is 
a doubter and weather-vane who is waiting to see how 
matters will end, and to note whether Christ or the 
devil will conquer; or he is altogether in a condition 
of uncertainty himself, and is unworthy to be called a 
disciple, much less a teacher.” Still it cannot fairly 
be deduced from this, that a doubt of Melanchthon’s 
orthodoxy on the doctrine of the Lord’s Supper was 
the reason why Luther desired to keep Melanchthon 
away from Ratisbon. The fact is, the two great 
champions of the Reformation-were at this time on 
good terms with one another. The old-time friend- 
ship and kindly feeling were largely restored. Philip 
frequently came as of old and dined at Dr. Martin’s 
table, and twice they journeyed in each other’s com- 
pany to Mansfeldt. 

It is pleasant to think that these two men of God, 


. ; LUTHER’S DEATH. 185 


who for a tine seemed about to be wholly estranged 
and to engage in fierce theological warfare, resumed, 
in these last months of Luther’s life, their former 
pleasant relations; that the dangers which threatened 
completely to alienate their hearts from each other 
passed away, and the mutual love and esteem which 
had marked their earlier years re-asserted themselves. 
They were soon to be separated by death. The time 
was at hand, when the heroic form of Luther would 
disappear from the field of combat, and the peace- 
loving Melanchthon be left to continue, without the 
support of his resolute friend, the battle for spiritual 
and intellectual freedom. They beheld one another 
alive for the last time on January 23, 1546. On that 
day Luther, with his three sons, departed for EHisleben, 
in order to assist in settling the dispute which existed 
between the Counts of Mansfeldt. 

- The two reformers parted as good friends, and a 
number of letters passed between them. Had Me- 
lanchthon been well enough, he would no doubt have 
gone along to Mansfeldt, as he had done twice before. 
But his ill-health kept him at home. On February 
18th, Luther died at Eisleben after only a day’s ill- 
ness. On the very day of his death, Melanchthon, all 
unconscious of the sad event, wrote a letter which he 
intended to send to his friend. “To the venerable 
Dr. Martin Luther,” he says, “distinguished by learn- 
ing, virtue and wisdom, the restorer of the pure doc- 
trine of the Gospel, my dearest Father. . .. . I thank 
you for writing to me so often and kindly. And I 
pray God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, to 
bring you all safely home again.” On the next day 


186 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


he received from Jonas the tidings of Luther’s death. 
Great. was his grief and sorrow. At nine o’clock he 
was to lecture to the students upon the Epistle to the 
Romans.. But his heart was too full; he could. not. 


Dearu or Lerner. 


Instead of lecturing, he gave to the students an ac- 
count of the sad tidings which he had received; de- 
scribed, as far as he had learned it, the manner of 
Luther’s death; and concluded with the words: 
“ Alas! the chariot of Israel, which ruled the Church 


LUTHER’S DEATH. 187 


in this last age of the world, is gone. For the doc- 
trine of remission of sins and faith in the Son of God 
was not discovered by human sagacity, but was 
brought to light by God through this man, whom we 
ourselves have seen raised up by God. Therefore let 
us love the memory of this man and the doctrine 
which he proclaimed; and let us be more modest, and 
consider the great calamities and vast changes which 
will follow his decease. O Son of God and Immanuel, 
who wast crucified for us and didst rise again! We 
beseech Thee, rule, defend and preserve Thy Church. 
Amen.” 

About noon on February 22d, Luther’s body was 
brought to Wittenberg. Amid the ringing of bells, 
and escorted by a vast multitude of people, it was con- 
veyed to the Electoral Church, in which it was to be 
consigned to its last resting place. After Bugenhagen 
had preached the funeral sermon, Melanchthon also 
ascended the pulpit and delivered a Latin memorial 
address. He laid special emphasis upon the greatness 
of Luther as an instrument for good in God’s hand. 
He mentioned in particular Luther’s bringing to light 
the pure doctrine of the Gospel, his translation of the 
Holy Scriptures into German, and the debt which pious 
Christians owed to him. He defended Luther against 
the charge of excessive harshness and severity by 
quoting from Erasmus, that “God had given to the 
Church of these latter times a rough physician because 
of the severity of the disease.” Those who knew 
Luther, he said, knew him to be amiable and kind- 
hearted, and by no means insolent, obstinate, or quar- 
relsome. His severity did not proceed from a quarrel- 


188 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


some spirit, but from a zeal for the truth. The purity 
of Luther’s life, he declared, was unquestioned. He 
sought the good of the whole Church and earnestly 
prayed for it. In great and dangerous emergencies he 
was brave and courageous; threats and impending 
dangers did not terrify him. Nothing could shake his 
trust and confidence in God. His understanding and 
foresight were such, that he could tell sooner and better 
than any others what ought to be done in difficult or 
doubtful cases. Luther’s eloquence, he asserted, would 
bear comparison with that of the best orators who 
have ever lived. The calling away of a man so highly 
gifted, and of such sound learning, Christian experi- 
ence, and great virtues, was cause for the deepest sor- 
row. They were, indeed, left like orphans; but they 
should ever honor the memory, hold fast the doctrines, 
and imitate the virtues of this great and good man. 
There were not wanting at the time and later, peo- 
ple who said that Melanchthon did not really grieve 
over the death of Luther. They took it for granted 
that the estrangement of recent years had left a rank- 
ling sore in Melanchthon’s heart. But to conclude 
thus is to do him great injustice. He had not, it 
is true, wholly escaped the vehemence and asperity 
of Luther. But he was naturally of a placable dispo- 
sition. Besides, the pleasant intercourse which had 
been re-established between them during the last 
months of Luther’s life had removed the sting from his 
recollection of the past. In former times he had often 
excused the vehemence of Luther as a fault of tempera- 
ment and not of heart. In his funeral oration he like- 
wise sought to shield his friend on this point. And it 


LUTHER’S DEATH. 189 


is not to be supposed, therefore, that, when all about 
him were plunged in deepest mourning by that great 
man’s death, Melanchthon alone was unmoved at heart. 
It would be imputing to him a narrowness of spirit 
which he little possessed, to imagine that he permitted 
his own past grievances to cloud his sense of the loss 
which had befallen him and the whole Church. Few 
appreciated Luther’s greatness and fundamental piety 
and goodness of heart as well as did this man, who 
had labored shoulder to shoulder with him for so 
many years. In nearly all his letters of the time Me- 
lanchthon mourns over the great loss which the 
Church has sustained. On March 11th he wrote to 
Camerarius: “Since Luther is dead, it becomes all up- 
right and pious people to speak well of so great a man, 
who has brought to light a portion, at least, of the. 
heavenly truth.” During the following summer, when 
Luther’s works were being published, Melanchthon 
wrote an introduction to the second volume, giving an 
interesting account of the great reformer’s character 
and work. As late as 1557 he celebrated Luther’s 
birthday by the composition of an appropriate poem. 
All these considerations, however, were ignored by 
his enemies, and they would have it that he was filled 
with bitterness against Luther. A great commotion 
was raised particularly by a letter written during the 
Interim to the Saxon Chancellor Carlowitz. In this 
letter Melanchthon spoke of Luther, as a man in whom 
“the love of strife was not small.” He defended him- 
self in a letter to Veit Dietrich, and explained that he 
had meant the words in a heroie sense, such as that in 
which they might be applied toa Pericles, a Lysander 


190 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


or an Agesilaus. But his enemies insisted on putting 
a different interpretation upon his words, and attacked 
him bitterly on account of them. 


CHAPTER XX. 


THE SCHMALCALD WAR. THE DISSOLUTION AND RESTORA- 
TION OF THE UNIVERSITY. 1546-1547. 


HE war whose coming Melanchthon had so 
long feared broke out shortly after Luther’s 
death. The religious discussion at Ratisbon 

ended in a total failure to effect any agreement. It 
‘looked unpromising from the very start. The Span- 
ish ecclesiastic Malvenda refused to follow the order 
of the Augsburg Confession. He presented nine 
theses of his own upon the doctrine of Justification. 
But they were of such a character that the Protestants 
eould do nothing but absolutely reject them. The 
- emperor himself seemed to be determined to lay all 
manner of difficulties in the way of discussion and 
agreement. He evidently meant to resort to arms. 
The Protestant theologians, therefore, at the command 
of the elector, withdrew from the mock-discussion. 
It was evident that, even if Melanchthon himself had 
been present, no other result could have followed un- 
der the circumstances. 

A crisis was plainly at hand. The elector desired 
to know of the theologians what the Protestant princes 


THE SCHMALCALD WAR. 191 


might do in case they were attacked. Through Me- 
lanchthon they prepared an opinion, in which they de- 
clared, that as soon as it became clear that the em- 
peror meant to attack them, the evangelical States 
would certainly have a right, not only to defend them- 
selves, but to forestall any hostile movements. 

When the Diet of Ratisbon was opened on June 
5th, the Protestants demanded to know the reason 
of the warlike preparations which were being made 
in Germany, Italy and the Netherlands. The em- 
peror replied that he “ had hitherto exerted himself to 
maintain peace in Germany, and was even yet ready 
to show favor to the obedient; but that against those 
who refused to obey, he was prepared to proceed with 
his imperial power.” Shortly after this, in the begin- 
ning of July, the pope published a treaty which he had 
made with the emperor for the extermination of the 
heretics. Thereupon, the Protestants published a 
pamphlet, in which they accused the emperor of mak- 
ing war upon them at the instigation of Anti-Christ. 
The emperor retaliated by placing the Elector of Sax- 
ony and the Landgrave of Hesse under the imperial 
- ban. Melanchthon published Luther’s little book, «A 
Warning to my Beloved Germans,” and prefixed to it 
an introduction, in which he drew attention to the 
momentous issues before the people, and called upon 
all to aid in the preservation of the truth. 

The Schmaleald War now began. Duke Maurice 
of Saxony, being promised the electoral dignity and 
the greater part of the lands of the present elector, 
John Frederick, turned traitor to the Protestant cause 
and went over to the emperor. Before Charles, how- 


192 


LIVE OF MBLANOIULHON, 


BatrLe oF MUHLBERG. 


DISSOLUTION OF THE UNIVERSITY. 193 


ever, had time to gather his troops, the Protestants 
stood on the banks of the Danube with an army of 
thirty thousand men. If they had vigorously prose- 
cuted the war at once, they might easily have been 
victorious. But they hesitated and delayed until the 
emperor had received powerful re-inforcements. Then 
came the tidings that Duke Maurice had overrun the 
territories of the elector, and John Frederick hastened 
back with his troops to expel the invader. He sue- 
ceeded; but in the following spring he was himself 
defeated by an overwhelming force of the emperor at 
Miihlberg. He was taken captive and condemned to 
death. But the emperor did not venture to carry out 
this sentence. He therefore proposed to change the 
punishment into imprisonment for life, on condition 
that John Frederick should renounce his electoral dig- 
nity and territories in favor of his cousin Maurice. 
This was done. The landgrave of Hesse also was 
soon afterward treacherously taken prisoner at Halle. 

The progress of the war rendered necessary the 
dissolution of the university at Wittenberg. — Its halls 
were closed on November 6th. Three days later 
Duke Maurice advanced upon the city. Old and 
young, in the midst of a violent snowstorm, fled in 
dismay. Melanchthon was obliged to look for a place 
of safety for himself and his family. He took refuge 
in the town of Zerbst. He formed a plan of gathering 
a school in Magdeburg; but, after spending a week 
in that city, he found it impracticable, and returned. 
With the exception of two short visits to Wittenberg, 
he spent this whole winter in Zerbst. He received 


numerous invitations to go elsewhere; but he had not 
13 


194 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


given up the hope that the university would be re- 
stored, and he therefore declined them all. 

The news of the catastrophe at Miihlberg filled Me- 
lanchthon with grief and consternation. He looked 
forward with dread to the consequences which would 
result from it to the cause of the Gospel. Zerbst 
now no longer offered a safe retreat. He therefore 
took refuge in Magdeburg. Here he found Luther’s 
widow, who begged him to take her under his protee- 
tion. She was on her way to the King of Denmark, 
who had offered to her, as he also had to Melanch- 
thon, an asylum. He accompanied her as far as 
Brunswick, where he advised her to remain, because 
the way through Liineburg was not safe. He then 
turned his own steps to Nordhausen, where the 
mayor, Meienburg, was his friend. From here he in- 
tended to make a journey to his native place. But 
as he had just then received encouraging reports from 
Wittenberg, he dropped his plan and also declined a 
call to Tiibingen. His heart was in Wittenberg, and 
he could not make up his mind to go elsewhere as 
long as there was any possibility of returning thither. 
-On June 6th he learned that Maurice had been in- 
vested with the electoral dignity, and that the uni- 
versity would likely be restored. Two days later, 
Cruciger sent notice to all the professors who were in 
exile to return to Wittenberg. 

But now a delicate question arose, and had to be 
decided by Melanchthon. A portion of the Elector 
John Frederick’s dominions had been left to his sons. 
The captive prince desired that a new institution 
should be founded in his sons’ territory, at Jena. He 


RESTORATION OF THE UNIVERSITY. 195 


sent a letter to Melanchthon, and entreated him not to 
remove out of that neighborhood without first letting 
him know. To this Melanchthon assented. In the 
month of July he learned for the first time of the new 
institution to be founded at Jena. He then went to 
the court at Weimar to learn further particulars. But 
when he found that none of the Wittenberg professors 
but himself were to be called to Jena, he broke off 
the negotiations and returned to Nordhausen. He 
desired to live and labor in company with his’ former 
colleagues, and could not bear the thought of com- 
plete separation from them. Intending to discuss the 
matter with some friends, he started for Zerbst. 
When he had gone as far as Merseburg, he received 
letters from Cruciger and George von Anhalt, in 
which he was invited to come to Leipzig. The new 
elector, Maurice, was there and desired to speak with 
Melanchthon and the other theologians. When Me- 
lanchthon arrived, he was kindly received, presented 
with some valuable gifts, and asked to accept a pro- 
fessorship in Leipzig. But as his colleagues had al- 
ready besought the restoration of the university at 
Wittenberg, he decided to cast his lot with them, and 
wait for a favorable answer to their request. For the 
same reason, also, he declined calls from Denmark, 
Frankfort-on-the-Oder, and Koenigsberg. The ex- 
tent of his anxiety to return to Wittenberg may be 
judged from the fact, that during this time he was 
living at his own expense and drawing no salary, and 
that he did not know how long it would take till a de- 
cision in the matter would be reached in the electoral 
court at Dresden. Finally, however, about the mid- 


196 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


dle of October, the university was restored, and suffi- 
cient funds were set apart for its support. He there- 
upon removed his family from Nordhausen, and found 
himself, to his great joy, once more at home in his old 
position. 

The course which Melanchthon pursued in this 
matter was greatly censured at the time by friends of 
the unfortunate elector John Frederick. Nothing was 
said about the other professors when they resumed 
their old places, but Melanchthon was decried far and 
wide for so doing. He was accused of ingratitude 
and untaithfulness to the captive prince. Many since 
then have supposed it would have been more honor- 
able in him to have gone to Jena. Whatever may be 
thought of his conduct, it must, in order to judge cor- 
rectly, be borne in mind that Melanchthon was not 
attached to the court of that ruler, but was a professor 
in the university. However deeply he may have sym- 
pathized with the captive prince, it was natural that 
his heart should turn to the city which had become 
endeared to him by so many tender associations, and 
the institution where the best years of his life had been 
spent. He was loudly accused of having expressly 
promised to assist the sons of the former elector in 
founding the new university. But he had only con- 
sented not to remove out of their territory without 
first letting them know. It may be well to let Me- 
lanchthon speak for himself, and we therefore give 
extracts from two of his letters explaining the reasons 
for his conduct. 

To Aquilla he wrote, August 29th: “A melan- 
choly mind, as Ennius says, always errs. Perhaps, in 


RESTORATION OF THE UNIVERSITY. 197 


my sadness, I cherished too great a longing for my old 
friends with whom I labored in the same work so 
long. Perhaps I hoped too much when, in these un- 
propitious times, I regarded as possible the restora- 
tion of the university, the certainty of which is by no 
means apparent. But at all events, I have not striven 
for carnal pleasures or riches.” . Then in reply to cer- 
tain other accusations, he continued: “ When some 
say that the preachers at this place incline to other 
doctrines, they do great injustice to this Church, 
which has already endured so much. By God’s grace 
the Gospel is preached in Wittenberg with great 
unanimity in the same manner as before the war.” 
On October 18th, he wrote to Strigel: “ When we 
were encouraged to believe that the university would 
be restored, I dared lay nothing in the way of the 
project; for the university has certainly been of great 
advantage to a large part of Germany, and if it ceased 
to exist, then would not only the churches of the 
neighborhood be involved in great darkness, but our 
enemies would regard it as a triumph. I also per- 
ceived the difficulties with which the Thuringian court 
would have to contend, and I feared that the founding 
of a new university might draw still more odium upon 
the captive prince. If, while stationed at such an uni- 
versity, I had said or written anything against the de- 
erees of the Council of Trent, the young princes would 
have become involved in new dangers. What is said 
concerning promises which I should have made, I do 
not understand; for they have my writing in hand, in 
which I spoke of these perils. Before the project of a 
new school was broached, I wrote that I would rather 


198 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


serve them than others; and this I would even yet 
rather do, if they had a place in which I might be of” 
use to them without danger of injuring them. To 
speak frankly, I was surprised that in these sorrowful 
times, even before the clouds of battle had rolled 
away, they should think of founding a new uni- 
versity.” 

After Melanchthon had resumed his lectures at 
Wittenberg, the university in that city regained its 
former exalted position as the chief Protestant uni- 
versity in the world; and Melanchthon himself easily 
ranked as the greatest living theologian. 


~ 


CHAPTER XXI. 


THE AUGSBURG INTERIM. THE LEIPZIG INTERIM. 
CONTROVERSIES. 1548-1550. 


67 HEN, on the Ist of September, 1547, another 
diet was held at Augsburg, it soon be- 
came apparent that the emperor had 

waged the late war not so much in the pope’s interest, 

as in his own. His chief concern had been to establish 
his imperial authority and prestige. He now proposed 
to show that he was able, without any assistance from 
the pope, to restore peace and unity in the religious 
affairs of his realm. He demanded that the Protest- 
ants should submit to the decrees of the council, pro- 
vided, that it should be re-transferred from Bologna 
to Trent, and should be conducted in an orderly Chris- 


THE AUGSBURG INTERIM. 199 


tian way. But as the deliberations of the council bade 
fair to consume a long period of time, he recommended 
to the States the appointment of a commission of com- 
petent and learned -men, who should consult together 
on ways and means to restore religious unity, and com- 
pile a set of regulations for doctrine and practice 
which should be observed in the interim; that is, 
until the decrees of the council should be made and 
accepted. 

The elector Maurice acquainted his theologians with 
this recommendation and desired their opinion. He 
also commanded them to keep themselves in readiness 
for a journey to Augsburg. Under date of January 
22, 1548, the theologians wrote to him that they 
greatly distrusted this prospective “interim,” and 
feared that it would work mischief. In a separate 
opinion of his own, Melanchthon stated that he re- 
garded consent to a continuation of the council as 
consent to accept its decrees, and that he could not 
thus burden his conscience. It is evident from this, 
that Melanchthon had determined to remain true to 
the evangelical cause in that trying period. He de- 
serves all the more credit for so doing, because his 
delivery to the emperor had already been twice de- 
manded. He felt, also, that in this crisis he dared not 
leave Wittenberg, and therefore repeatedly declined 
invitations from the King of Denmark and Edward 
VI. of England to come to those countries. 

Meanwhile, however, the plans of the emperor were 
being carried out. A book, suited to his purpose, had 
been laid before him. It proposed to bring about an 
agreement between Protestants and Roman Catholics, 


200 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


and was to be adopted as the rule for guidance during 
the interim. Hence its name, “The Augsburg In- 
terim.” It is supposed that this book was given to 
the emperor by Joachim II. of Brandenburg. As far 
as its authorship is concerned, it is quite certain that 


AY 


eee 
IoHAN AGRICOLA ISLEBIVS THEOLOGY: 


BRANDEBYRGICVS ET GENERALIS MARCHIA 
SVPERINTENDENS. 


AGRICOLA. 


John Agricola, of Berlin, had a share in it; for when 
he entered his carriage to proceed to the diet, he is said 
to have declared that he was going to Augsburg as the 
reformer of Germany. The emperor appointed Julius 
von Pflug and Michael Helding, together with Agri- 
cola, to give the book a proper form, so that it might 


THE AUGSBURG INTERIM. 201 


be published at once, and serve as a temporary form of 
doctrine and discipline. 

Agricola could not get done boasting of what this 
Interim would accomplish. But Melanchthon viewed 
it quite differently, and thanked God that he had noth- 
ing to do with it. Duke Maurice was far from being 
pleased with it. He commanded his theologians. to 
proceed as far as Zwickau and there await develop- 
ments. While they were on the way thither, word 
was sent by him to Melanchthon to remain at Alten- 
burg, to which place the theologians had already come, 
and to prepare an opinion on the Interim ; then he was 
to retire to Klosterzelle and remain there, because the 
emperor had made demand for his delivery or banish- 
ment. In the opinion which he prepared, Melanch- 
thon said that the Interim resembled the Ratisbon 
book, though some articles were more sharply, and 
others more moderately worded; and that it con- 
tained many generalities which were odious and dan- 
gerous. After he had examined the Interim more 
carefully, he prepared a second opinion at Klosterzelle. 
He stated that he had given these matters further con- 
sideration, particularly the deceptive passages in the 
articles on Faith and Love. Their real teaching on 
these points he found to be, that faith is only a prepara- 
tion for righteousness, and that faith is followed by 
love, which justifies man. This would imply that man 
is justified by his own works and virtues, and against 
this, he said, he must protest. In the same manner 
he attacked the teaching of the Interim on the Mass. 

Thereupon the elector demanded a detailed and dis- 
passionate criticism of every article. The theologians 


202 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


accordingly assembled at Melanchthon’s residence in 
Klosterzelle, and after several day’s work sent, on 
April 24th, a third opinion. They declared that, while 
they would consent to confirmation, extreme unction, 
the power of the bishops, private absolution without 
auricular confession, and several festivals and ceremo- 
nies, provided that work-righteousness and the invoca- 
cation of the saints were left away; yet they were 
obliged to reject all the other articles, particu- 
larly those concerning justification, private masses, 
masses for souls, and the canons. A few days later, 
on April 28th, Melanchthon wrote to Chancellor 
Christopher von Carlowitz. This is the letter which 
gave such offence to many friends of Luther. The 
chancellor had written to Melanchthon to be more 
moderate, and the latter, therefore, in his reply gave 
the reasons, why the Interim was rejected by him. He 
says among other things : “ The elector may determine 
as he pleases. If I cannot approve of all, I shall 
nevertheless not raise a disturbance, but either hold 
my peace, or go away, or put up with affairs as best I 
may. I formerly bore an almost dishonorable ser- 
vitude, when Luther obeyed more the promptings of 
his own natural temperament in which there was no 
small love of strife, than he did those of his own dig- 
nity or the public welfare. But when you say that I 
am not only expected to be quiet but to indorse the 
Interim, you must see yourself, as an intelligent man, 
that there is a vast difference in human temperaments, 
points of view and sentiments. I am naturally by no 
means fond of strife, and I love concord among men 
as much as any one. I did not begin these contro- 


THE AUGSBURG INTERIM. 203 


versies which have unsettled the whole general order 
of things. I came when they had already been stirred 
up and were in the process of development; and I be- 
gan with a sincere desire for the truth to investigate 
these matters, especially because many learned and 
prudent men had given them their approval. In those 
days, many who now at the diet of Augsburg accuse 
me as the cause of disunion made me so odious at 
court on account of my moderation, that my life was 
endangered. Since that time, for almost twenty years, 
many have called me ‘ frost and ice,’ others have said 
I courted favor with the enemy. I even remember 
that some one accused me of seeking a cardinal’s hat. 
Without paying heed to these unjust criticisms, I have 
sought, whenever I came to speak of the doctrines of 
the Church, to state as clearly as possible the essential 
points; and I cut off many unnecessary questions and 
avoided many subjects, in order not to stir up greater 
disunion. I cannot bear to think of having the Church 
disturbed by a change in her doctrines or by the ban- 
ishment of her upright men.” He then expressed his 
willingness to concede jurisdiction to the bishops, be- 
cause “it is not to be expected that the courts of un- 
learned princes will, for any great length of time, 
exercise greater care in looking after the pure doc- 
trine.” He expressed himself willing to accept also 
the ceremonies prescribed, because “as a boy he had 
always watched with particular pleasure all the cere- 
monies of the Church.” But so far as regards the 
Faith, he said he must abide by the criticisms which 
he had made of the Interim. He concluded: “ If on 
this account I shall be regarded as a disturber of the 


204 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


peace, because I will not say yea to all that the book 
contains, I shall, with God’s help, bear the conse- 
quences, whatever they may be, like many have done 
before who, in causes that were just but much less im- 
portant than these, have preferred the truth to their 
own life.” 

This remarkable letter was meant to convince Car- 
lowitz, that none but the weightiest reasons would 
have induced one who was so well known as a 
lover of peace to reject the Interim. Indeed, at this 
very time Melanchthon was in constant danger of ban- 
ishment or imprisonment for the frank opinion con- 
cerning the Interim which he had sent to Augsburg. 
But he was determined to abide by his opinion at 
whatever risk, and refused to seek safety by accepting 
any of the calls which came to him from England or 
elsewhere. é 

This Interim pleased the Roman Catholics little bet- 
ter. They declared they would continue to do as 
they had done hitherto, but were satisfied to have the 
Protestants brought back to the old way. Referring 
to this declaration of the Roman Catholies, Melanch- 
thon, in an opinion delivered on April 29th, the day 
after his return to Wittenberg, advised that the nego- 
tiations be broken off, because, even if a peace were 
effected, it would after all be like a compact between 
wolves and lambs. . 

This book of the Interim was read to the diet on 
May 15th. The Roman Catholics were left free in 
their action, but the Protestants were commanded to 
adhere to it until the decrees of the conncil were made 
public. But when the Interim was to be introduced 


THE AUGSBURG INTERIM. 205 


in Protestant countries it met with strong opposition. 
Of the Protestant princes present at Augsburg, the 
Margrave Wolfgang and John von Kuestrin, together 
with the captive prince John Frederick, alone refused 
to sign it. But the evangelical clergy and the Free 
Cities violently opposed it. Strasburg for a long time 
resisted every threat. In Ulm the clergy were im- 
prisoned. In Hesse, Ducal Saxony, Hamburg, Lii- 
beck, Bremen and Liinburg, the Interim was uncon- 
ditionally rejected. The city of Magdeburg was 
particularly distinguished for its resistance and for the 
attacks which were made from it upon the Interim. 
In Swabia and along the Rhine four hundred evangel- 
ical preachers were driven into exile, before the Ro- 
man Catholic liturgy could ‘again be introduced. 

The elector Maurice signed the Interim, but con- 
ditionally. He presented a protest, in which he de- 
clared to the diet that he could not consent to be held 
responsible for its introduction, inasmuch as it was 
made binding only on one party. Besides, he said, 
the Reformation had taken a strong hold upon his 
dominions. When he returned to his own territory, 
he did not attempt to force the Interim upon his peo- 
ple, but requested of his Wittenberg theologians an 
opinion which he might lay before the Saxon Chamber 
of Deputies. This opinion, written by Melanchthon 
and given to the elector June 16th, declared that, since 
the bishops would not consent to any accommodation, 
it would be better to leave the Church of Saxony 
alone, and not endeavor to introduce the Interim. 
The defects of the book and the reasons for rejecting 
it were then pointed out. The opinion was signed by 


206 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


Bugenhagen, Pfeffinger, Cruciger, Major, and Fros- 
chel. 

When the Chamber of Deputies assembled July 2d, 
with Melanchthon, Cruciger and Major present, the 
subject of the Interim was taken up. It was decided 
to go through the book article by article, and then to 
request the emperor to excuse them from enforcing 
such portions of it as were unscriptural. Desiring 
more light upon the subject, the deputies requested 
another opinion which should treat particularly of 
the doctrines of Justification, Faith and Good Works. 
When this had been prepared, the theologians in turn 
suggested that a detailed statement of their doctrinal 
position be sent to the emperor. Melanchthon had 
already begun to work upon such a statement, when, 
before having proceeded very far, he saw that it would 
consume a great deal of time. He concluded that it 
would be better simply to ask the emperor to allow 
the Saxon Church to remain in its present condition. 
The deputies desired the elector to send such a request. 
But Maurice refused to do this, because he thought it 
would create a breach between him and the emperor; 
and he demanded that something, at least, be yielded 
in indifferent matters, and the final decision be post- 
poned until the next meeting of the Chamber. 

Melanchthon was pleased with the course which 
matters were taking thus far. It looked as if the In- 
terim would be rejected in Saxony. His letters show 
how strong were his feelings upon this subject. Writ- 
ing to the Margrave John of Brandenburg-Kuestrin, 
he says: “In the article of Justification there are cer- 
tainly contained great errors. So also in other arti- 


THE AUGSBURG INTERIM. 207 


eles. With God’s help I, for my part, will not approve 
of this Interim. For this I have the best of reasons. 
I will commend my miserable life to God, even though 
I should be taken captive or exiled.” 

Melanchthon was frequently asked for advice by 
people in other parts, who wanted to know what they 
should do with regard to the Interim. To those who 
were most endangered he replied that they should be 
prudent, yield in outward matters, and then they would 
have little to fear. While this was not exactly recom- 
mending the spirit of the martyrs for their imitation, 
yet, it should be said, he never advised any one to 
yield in matters of doctrine. 

Before the next Chamber of Deputies assembled, 
Maurice called a conference at Pegau, to be held 
August 28th, between the two bishops of his realm, 
Pflug, of Naumburg, and Maltitz, of Meissen, and 
Melanchthon, George von Anhalt, Forster and Eber. 
The elector urged his theologians to yield in all mat- 
ters that did not conflict with the Holy Scriptures. 
Although a partial agreement on the subject of Justi- 
fication was reached at this conference, nothing was 
accomplished after all, because the bishops declared 
that they could not consent to any change in the In- 
terim. Melanchthon therefore departed from Pegau 
on August 25, tarried three days in Leipzig, and 
reached Wittenberg on the thirtieth of the month. 
To his sorrow he found his good friend Cruciger very 
ill with consumption, of which he died the following 
November. 

At the next meeting of the Deputies, held at Tor- 
gau, October 18th, matters took a turn which was de- 


208 LIFE QF MELANCHTHON, 


cidedly unsatisfactory to Melanehthon. On the very 
first day of the meeting, three electoral counselors and 
four knights arose and said that, if the country was not 
to be plunged into misery, the emperor must be obeyed 
as fur as possible. They had therefore prepared a list 
of the articles which might, in their judgment, be ac- 
cepted with a good conscience, and they would hand 
this list to the theologians for examination. This 
document contained the article of Justification as 
agreed upon at Pegau, together with others on the 
authority of the Church, Confirmation, Repentance, 
Extreme Unetion, Ordination, the Mass, Vigils, Fes- 
tivals, Processions and eating of Meats. The theolo- 
gians objected, but little attention was paid to them. 
It was evident that Maurice was determined to main- 
tain good relations with the emperor, even at the cost 
of re-instating many Romish errors. 

When Melanchthon, on October 20th, left Torgau, he 
was deeply distressed by the course which affairs were 
taking. Nevertheless he permitted himself, shortly 
afterwards, to be induced to take part, greatly to his 
subsequent regret, in the preparation of the com- 
promise known as the Leipzig Interim. On Novem- 
ber 16th he attended a convention of theologians at 
Klosterzelle for the purpose of revising the liturgy 
which had been published in 1589 and approved by 
Luther, and of adapting it to the elector’s purpose, 
Those gathered with him were Bugenhagen, Major, 
Camerarius and the Superintendents Lauterbach, of 
Pirna, and Weller, of Freiberg. While they were 
there assembled, the list of articles proposed at Tor- 
gan by the seven deputies was laid before them by 


s¢ 


THE LEIPZIG INTERIM. 209 


JoHN BUGENHAGEN, 


14 


210 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


the electoral counselors. The theologians were di- 
rected to examine and improve these articles, and to 
let the emperor see that there was no lack of willing- 
ness to obey, as far as was possible with a good con- 
science and consistent with the Word of God. The 
theologians replied that they had already signified 
their willingness to yield in all non-essential matters, 
such as festivals, hymns, clerical robes, meats, ete., 
but that they could not consent to erroneous doctrines 
or idolatrous ceremonies. But the counselors in- 
sisted on retaining the articles presented at Torgau, 
and proceeded to place together, without the assist- 
ance of the theologians, all the subjects which in their 
judgment were adiaphora (indifferent matters). 

This document became known as the Recess of 
Celle. It was signed by the electors of Saxony and 
Brandenburg at Jiiterbock, and laid before the Cham- 
ber of Deputies at the meeting opened in Leipzig on 
December 21st. It was adopted by the deputies, and 
then became known as the “Leipzig Interim.” It 
proposed to retain the doctrinal articles of the Lutheran 
Church, but to re-introduce such Roman Catholic cere- 
monies as might be regarded as adiaphora and might 
be observed without conflicting with the Scriptures. 

Since this Interim was afterwards the subject of 
much controversy, we will give a short synopsis of its 
contents: The article of Justification was given in the 
form agreed upon at Pegau. It stated: “ Although 
God does not justify men by the merit of the works 
which they perform, but out of grace, freely and with- 
out our merit, and the praise is not ours, but Christ's, 
through whose merit alone we are justified from our 


CONTROVERSIES. 21 


sins; nevertheless, God does not deal with men as 
with a block, but draws them in such a way that, if 
they have arrived at the age of discretion, their will 
co-operates with His. For no one receives the merit 
of Christ, unless his will and heart have been moved 
by prevenient grace, so that he trembles at God’s 
wrath and is displeased with sin. It is beyond doubt, 
that in conversion there must be repentance and fear 
of God’s wrath. As long as there remains a security 
which permits man to persist in wilful sin, there is no 
conversion or forgiveness.” Of Good Works it declared 
that “ they are necessary because God commands them. 
They please God because the person who performs 
them believes in Christ’s merit. They are necessary, 
because their absence would be an evidence that men 
are not spiritually awakened and have not experienced 
God’s grace. Furthermore, because these virtues and 
good works please God, they obtain, according to 
God’s plan, a temporal and spiritual reward in this 
life, and, by reason of God’s promise, a further re- 
ward in eternal life.” 

Up to this point the articles had been drawn up by 
Melanchthon. The rest, composed by the electoral 
counselors, were in substance about as follows: What 
the Church decrees in matters of faith is to be accepted, 
unless it conflicts with the Scriptures. The Bishops 
are to retain authority over the other clergy, but are 
to use their office, in accordance with God’s command, 
for edification and not for destruction. Baptism is to 
be administered with exorcism. Confirmation is to be 
retained. Repentance, Confession and Absolution are to 
be rigidly enforced, and no one is to be admitted to 


212 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON, 


the Lord’s Supper without them. Extreme Unetion 
may be employed, but a superstitious use of it is to be 
avoided. Before Ordination the candidates are to be 
carefully examined by the bishops. Marriage is to be 
allowed to all classes according to God’s institution. 
The Mass is to be celebrated with the ringing of bells, 
the use of lights, vessels, singing, robes and cere- 
monies. The Public Services are to be conducted 
largely in Latin. The pictures of Saints are to serve 
for remembrance, but not for worship. The Canonical 
Hours and other hymns may be introduced again, The 
Festival of Corpus Christi and those devoted to the 
Virgin Mary are to be observed, Abstention from 
Meats on Friday and Saturday and during the season 
of Lent may be enjoined as an outward ordinance, 
The Clergy are to dress differently trom laymen, 

The deputies took exception at first to the articles 
on ordination, confirmation, unction, the festival of 
Corpus Christi, and the mass. But when they were 
assured by the theologians that these articles, properly 
interpreted, were unobjectionable, the deputies con- 
sented to receive them with the rest, 

Immediately after his return from Leipzig to Wit- 
tenberg, on January 6th, 1549, Melanchthon wrote ‘to 
a friend: “ The action at Leipzig affects no change in 
Church, because the contention concerning the mass 
and the canon is postponed for further consideration.” 
But while he took such a favorable view of the matter, 
it must be said that the adoption of the Interim was a 
perilous step. It will be seen from the summary of its 
contents given above, that it proposed to re-introduce 
a great number of Romish ceremonies under the plea 


CONTROVERSIES. 213 


that they were indifferent matters. Those who favored 
it maintained, indeed, that the observance of these 
ceremonies would not injure the pure doctrine. But 
this was by no means certain. These ceremonies had 
already been abolished because of the errors of faith 
connected with them. They were now to be re-intro- 
duced at the dictation of the enemies of the truth and 
contrary to the convictions of the Protestants; and 
there was danger, when the door was opened to these 
Romish ceremonies, that the errors which for ages had 
been connected with them would gain admittance also. 
If so great a care was to be used in making the Pro- 
testant Church, in its outward form and dress, look like 
the Roman Catholic, would not sooner or later the 
spirit and life of the two Churches grow similar also? 

In order to introduce the Interim adopted at Leip- 
zig, it was necessary to prepare a new liturgy for the 
churches. This task was entrusted to George von 
Anhalt, administrator of the bishopric of Merseburg. 
He used as the basis of his work the liturgy of 1539, 
mentioned before. A number of conventions were 
held to deliberate upon the changes to be made, and 
for this purpose Melanchthon journeyed to Merseburg 
on March 8th, and to the meeting of deputies at Tor- 
gau on April 13th. An adherent of Flacius had ac- 
eused the Saxon theologians of seeking to lead the 
people back to Romanism. Melanchthon, therefore, 
presented at this meeting a defence of himself and his 
colleagues. He said that they had yielded in what 
they considered indifferent things, in order to retain 
the necessary ones. This did not imply, he claimed, 
that they were leaning toward popery; “for the cere- 


‘ 


214 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


monies whose introduction was conceded had existed 
in the early Church, and were necessary for a proper 
uniformity in practice. Nor was it just to accuse them 
of yielding through fear; for, even if fear had some- 
thing to do with the matter, it was not fear for their 
own persons, but for the welfare of the people, their 
children, and society in general. They had sought by 
yielding in non-essential matters to preserve the essen- 
tial articles of their faith. Luther himself had coun- 
seled some to yield in indifferent matters. Besides, 
they had not introduced any new ceremonies,” he 
said, but “had simply modified, for the sake of order 
and uniformity, those which already existed, in order 
that the pure doctrine might be preserved and neigh- 
boring churches, like those of Silesia, which had com- 
plained of the former lack of uniformity, might begin 
to regard the Gospel with favor.” 

Melanchthon was soon assailed by many of the 
stricter adherents of Luther for his consent to the In- 
terim. In January, 1549, the theologians of Berlin 
inquired of those at Wittenberg whether all the prac- 
tices and customs of the Romish Church, such as the 
use of “ holy water, salt, herbs, palms, consecration of 
unleavened bread, processions with flags and torches, 
unctions at baptisms,” and the like, were to be re- 
garded as adiaphora, or indifferent matters. They re- 
quested a fuller explanation of what was to be in- 
cluded under that term. The Wittenberg theologians 
replied that they did not include under it such cus- 
toms as the consecration of oil and salt, and the like. 
They also stated in their reply their reason for the 
course which they had pursued. It was better, they 


CONTROVERSIES. pea ss 


said, “to endure a certain servitude in indifferent 
matters, than to leave the Church on account of them.” 
In April of the same year the pastors of Hamburg 
sent to Wittenberg a long letter, in which they con- 
demned the principle laid down in the reply to the 
theologians of Berlin. They complained that the 
term adiaphora was made too wide, and they asked 
the Wittenberg theologians to explain, in a public 
work, just what things were included under the term. 
To this Melanchthon replied that no fault was found 
with their frank letter; but he begged of them not to 
judge harshly those friends who had for twenty years 
fought and labored for the Gospel. He could assure 
them, he said, that the same Gospel was still preached 
at Wittenberg as at Hamburg. Among indifferent 
things, or adiaphora, the Wittenbergers did not in- 
clude “ magical consecrations, the adoration of images, 
the carrying about of consecrated bread” and similar 
customs. These they had publicly condemned by 
word and writing. As adiaphora they regarded those 
things which the ancient Church possessed, such as 
“festivals, public reading, confession and absolution 
before the Lord’s Supper, examination before con- 
firmation, ordination to the Gospel-ministry, etc.” 
_ Two men deserve special mention for their deter- 
mined opposition to the Interim. These were Gabriel 
Zwilling of Torgau and his deacon, Michael Schultz. 
They refused to wear the white surplice, called those 
who wore it traitors and idolators, and preferred to be 
deposed from their office rather than wear it. 
The greatest opposition, however, was raised by 
Matthias Flacius the Illyrian, a young man of the age 


216 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


of twenty-nine. He wrote against the Interim, and 
sought to prevail upon Melanchthon, Eber, Major and 
Bugenhagen to reject it. When he failed in his 
efforts, and saw that the Interim was about to be in- 
troduced in Wittenberg, he left the city and removed 
to Magdeburg. There he found Amsdorf, who had 
been expelled from his bishopric, and a number of 
others who were bitterly opposed to the Interim. 
From this city, which they called the Chancery of 
God, they sent out, one after another, violent pam- 
phlets against the Wittenberg theologians and particu- 
larly against Melanchthon. It was he whom they 
chiefly blamed for the introduction of the obnoxious 
compromise. They called the Wittenbergers Baalites, 
rascals, Epicures, Samaritans and other equally oppro- 
brious names. They accused Melanchthon of being a 
traitor to the truth and the Church because, they said, 
it was his fault that false doctrines and false adiaphora 
regained a foothold. 

Though Melanchthon erred in consenting to the In- 
terim, he had been sincere and honest in his inten-— 


“fions, even though he permitted himself to be led too 


“far. He thought that what he had consented to in the _ 


article on Justification did not conflict with the truth. 
When it was asserted that he included under the 
adiaphora all the customs of the Roman Catholic 
Church, he was manifestly misrepresented. , A num- 
ber of them he did not by any means accept. In Sep- 
tember, 1549, he wrote to Joachim Moller: “I have 
often advised that no more changes should be made 
now, because the people would exclaim that we are 
driving out the Gospel. But the court insists that we 


CONTROVERSIES. 217 


must yield to the emperor in some things, in order 
that he may not send his armies into our country and 
oppress the churches, as he has done in Swabia. I do 
not know whether the emperor will be satisfied with 
the re-introduction of a. few indifferent ceremonies or 
not; the courtiers declare that he will; and they urge 


us not_to expose our Fatherland aa the Chureh fod 


“devastation on account of non-essential matters. We 
are, therefore, contending only for essentials and are 
seeking to preserve purity of doctrine and the form 
of the Lord’s Supper, so that the papal mass may not 
be re-introduced here as it has been in Swabia. [ 
have never contended about holidays, the order of 
hymns, and similar matters. Such contention would 
be unbecoming to a modest servant of the Church in 
these sorrowful times. For a number of years I have 
wished that some of the ceremonies now proposed 
might be introduced, because a similarity in such mat- 
ters would conduce to unity. Of course, moderation 
must be used; and for this reason, also, we have 


{ 


: . : : { 
changed nothing in doctrines and essential matters. | 


The source of all our present troubles and of those 
which still threaten the Church is the article of tran- 
substantiation. This has given strength to the papal 
mass, concerning which we shall doubtless hear most 
severe commands from the emperor at the next diet. 
All the other questions in dispute have, as you are 
aware, been handled by me in such a way, that a pious 
and sincere man will have no further doubt upon them. 
But on the question of transubstantiation I have al- 
ways been very brief, on account of the slanderous 
tongues of some in our own party.” 


“nee 


218 ' LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


To the attacks which were made upon him by 
Flacius, Melanchthon did not for a long time reply. 
He feared it would only make matters worse. Flacius, 
however, became more and more violent. Finally, on 
October 1st, Melanchthon published a defense of his 
course. He denied that he had made any changes in 
doctrines, and maintained that his theological views 
still accorded with those laid down in his Loci Com- 
munes and the Augsburg Confession of 1530. He 
had, he said, advised the pastors of Franconia and 
other places not to leave the Church on account of 
non-essential matters; but he branded as a lie the as- 
sertion, that he had told those people they should not 
leave the Church, even if all the old abuses were re- 
instated. He complained that Flacius had violated 
the sanctity of friendship by accusing him publicly of 
confidential and ofttimes jocular remarks, which had 
been made in the past. 

It was now proposed by the Saxon court to publish 
a severe and comprehensive refutation of the charges 
made by Flacius and his allies. But, by Melanchthon’s 
advice, this was not done. He thought ‘it would only 
serve to embitter his enemies still more. But it is 
doubtful whether they would have been incited to 
more violent attacks than those which they made at 
any rate. Toward the end of 1540, Flacius published 
a series of letters written by Melanchthon during the 
Diet of Augsburg, and accompanied them with notes 
containing biting, satirical remarks. By this publica- 
tion he hoped to show men what a contemptible and 
timid man Melanchthon really was, and how differ- 
ently Luther would have acted, if he had been still alive. 


THE OSIANDRIAN AND MAJORISTIC CONTROVERSIES. 219 


It was evident that Flacius and his friends could 
not be reduced to silence. In fact, it soon appeared 
that the controversy over the adiaphora was only the 
prelude to an attack upon all the modifications of doc- 
trinal statements made in the Interim. In the begin- 
ning of the year 1550 Nicholas Gallus attacked the 
statement, that man is not to be regarded as a block 
in conversion. Melanchthon thereupon sent to Dr. 
Pfeftinger of Leipzig a number of theses for discussion, 
among which was one in which he defended the sen- 
tence assailed by Gallus. Hardly had these theses 
become public, when Flacius attacked them in two 
writings, and asserted that Melanchthon had said, that 
it was not worth while to dispute about the one little 
word “alone” in the doctrine of Justification by faith. 
This accusation, however, was false; for Melanchthon 
expressly declared in a letter to George von Anhalt, 
that he had never spoken nor written nor even 
thought of such a thing. We shall hear more of 
Flacius in a succeeding chapter. 


CHAPTER XXIL 


THE OSIANDRIAN AND MAJORISTIC CONTROVERSIES. THE 
RELIGIOUS PEACE OF AUGSBURG. 1550-1556. 


BOUT this time there arose a controversy over 
the object of Christ’s descent into hell. 
fpinus, Superintendent of Hamburg, main- 

tained, in a commentary which he published on the 


220 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


sixteenth Psalm, that Christ’s descent into hell was the 
last stage of his humiliation, and endeavored to prove 
this position from the Scriptures and the writings of Lu- 
ther. The Wittenberg theologians, however, gave it as, 
their opinion, that it represented Christ’s vietory over 
hell and the devil, and was one of the stages of his 
exaltation. This controversy stirred up considerable 
animosity, but it was soon overshadowed by the Osian- 
drian controversy which followed. 

Andrew Osiander, or Hosenmann, or Hosen-Ender- 
lein, had been pastor in Nuremberg. When the In- 
terim was introduced, he resigned his position. He 
was then, in 1549, called to a professorship at Koenigs- 
‘berg. He had scarcely been installed in his new po- 
sition, when he raised:a commotion by his erroneous 
explanation of the doctrine of justification. He main- 
tained that we are justified by a constant infusion of 
Christ’s righteousness into the believer. He confused 
Justification, which is a judicial act declaring us right- 
eous for Christ’s sake, with sanctification, which refers 
to the believer’s personal holiness and growth in grace. 
He denied that Christ’s righteousness is imputed to 
the believers. Ile at once became the object of fierce 
attacks. His opponents persistently appealed to the 
‘authority of Melanchthon. This angered Osiander, 
and he said that he was tired of hearing the words, 
“Our preceptor Philip teaches differently.” 

The Duke of Prussia concluded that the controversy 
ought to be submitted to the German churches for de- 
cision. Both parties therefore drew up a confession, 
That of Osiander was published. It was entitled, 
“The Confession concerning the only Mediator Jesus 


THE OSIANDRIAN CONTROVERSY. 221 


Christ and concerning Justification.” In this it was 
maintained that what was usually understood as jus- 
tification was called by the Scriptures redemption, and 

ras the common property of all; that in justification, 
man is not only declared righteous but made righteous, 
renewed and sanctified. Through faith in Christ and 
by virtue of the mystical union with Him, the essen- 
tial righteousness of God is communicated to man. 
Therefore, Christ is not our righteousness according 
to his human but aecording to his divine nature. 

Up to this time, Melanchthon had purposely refrained 
from taking any part in the controversy. He had paid 
no attention to the attacks which, in the course of the 
dispute, had been made upon him. In a friendly let- 
ter written as late as May 1, 1551, he had requested 
Osiander calmly to examine and answer certain theses 
which he enclosed. But when he was urged by the 
duke and the Koenigsberg theologians to publish an 
opinion on the confession of Osiander, he came out 
publicly in January, 1552, with the views which he had 
repeatedly expressed in private. His publication was 
entitled, “An Answer to Mr. Andrew Osiander con- 
cerning the Justification of Man.” In this pamphlet, 
greatly to the duke’s chagrin, he refuted Osiander’s 
position by many quotations from the Holy Scriptures. 
Tle said that God does indeed dwell in the converted 
man; but that it is equally true that after conversion 
we constantly need and receive the forgiveness of sins 
for Jesus’ sake. First, we must be justified by faith, 
through the merit of Jesus Christ; and only then does 
God truly dwell within us. 

When Osiander read Melanchthon’s reply, he is said 


222 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


to have threatened to “bleed Melanchthon in such 
a way, that his blood would flow throughout all Ger- 
many.” Ie actually did publish a work which he en- 
titled, « A Bleeding of Mr. Philip.” He issued another 
also, entitled, “ A’ Refutation of the Unfounded and 
Worthless Answer of Philip Melanchthon.” These 
works exceeded even those of Flacius in vituperation 
and slander. The second was aimed not only at Me- 
lanchthon, ‘but at all the professors at Wittenberg. 
Instigated by Melanchthon, they refused, he said, to 
ordain any one or to confer the degree of Master or 
Doctor upon any one who did not first solemnly prom- 
ise to teach in accordance with the three creeds of the 
sarly Church and the Augsburg Confession. To this 
Melanchthon replied that the promise referred to was, 
indeed, required, and had been required for the past 
twenty years. But it had been introduced by Luther, 
Bugenhagen and Jonas, on account of the Anabaptists 
and other fanatics, and because it took the place of a 
lengthy recital of the candidate’s faith. 

In October, 1552, Osiander died. But in spite of 
the fact that his doctrine was condemned by nearly all 
the churches, the controversy continued to rage for 
many years. In Stettin his views were defended by 
Peter Artopiius. In the year 1555, Dr. Jacob Rungius 
was dispatched from that place to Wittenberg in or- 
derto obtain Melanchthon’s opinion. When he arrived, 
he found Melanchthon on the point of going to Nu- 
remberg to allay the dissensions which some Osian- 
drists there created. They journeyed together. On 
September 29th and 30th a disputation was held in 
Nuremberg. At its conclusion, a paper prepared by 


THE 


OSIANDRIAN 


CONTROVERSY. 


NUREMBERG AT THE CLOSE OF THE 15TH CENTURY. 


224 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


Melanchthon was read and approved. The title of it 
was, “That in Conversion Man is Justified before 
God by Faith, on account of the Obedience of the Me- 
diator, and not on account of any Essential [infused] 
Righteousness.” Two of the disputants refused to sign 
the paper, and resigned their offices. 

Melanchthon had desired that Brenz should take 
part in the discussion. But Brenz replied that he 
could not come, and moreover would frankly state 
that he regarded Osiander’s theses as simply “ para- 
doxes, which might be interpreted for good or evil, 
just as men felt disposed toward the author.” Me- 
lanchthon did not wish to enter upon a controversy 
with Brenz. Therefore, in the opinion which he sent 
to Koenigsberg, he did not mention Osiander’s name, 
though he condemned his theses. When Rungius re- 
turned with this opinion, Artopiius recanted, but after- 
ward he fell mto his former errors. He was then de- 
posed from his office. In March, 1556, he came to 
Wittenberg and laid his confession of faith before 
Melanchthon. In reading it through, the latter found 
much which he could not approve. But out of pity 
for the man’s age, and sympathy for his large family 
which was in need of support, Melanchthon wrote to. 
Stettin, asking the authorities there to temper justice 
with mercy and to provide Artopiius with some posi- 
tion elsewhere. 

In February of the year 1550 a new pope, Julius 
III., assumed the triple crown. He owed his eleva- 
tion to the emperor, and was consequently more in- 
clined to be accommodating to that ruler than his pre- 
decessor had been. He transferred the council from 


PREPARATIONS FOR THE COUNCIL OF TRENT. 225 


Bologna to Trent. It was to be opened May 1, 1551. 
When the imperial diet met at Augsburg on July 26, 
1550, the emperor commanded the States to send 
delegates to Trent. But the elector, through his rep- 
resentatives at Augsburg, replied, in accordance with 
an opinion furnished by Melanchthon, that unless the 
council began its deliberations with the very begin- 
ning of the present disputes, allowed the evangelical 
theologians a voice in its proceedings, and refrained 
from proposing the pope as its president or judge, he 
would have nothing to do with it. 

Upon receiving a favorable answer from the em- 
peror, the elector, in 1551, summoned Melanchthon, 
Bugenhagen and Camerarius to- Dresden to consult 
with him about sending some one to Trent. It was 
decided that George von Anhalt, with several other 
theologians, should go. Melanchthon drew up a paper 
in which he laid down the course of action which he 
thought these delegates ought to pursue. He said 
that they ought first of all to insist upon taking up 
the religious disputes from the time of their first ap- 
pearance, and then maintain the doctrines laid down 
in the Catechism, the Augsburg Confession, or the 
first Agenda of Electoral Brandenburg. Some, how- 
ever, thought it better not to send any confession at 
all to the council, but purposely to delay its proceed- 
ings until the emperor should die. 

Shortly after this, it was decided that Melanchthon 
should draw up a new confession of faith for the 
council. He retired to Dessau, on May 5th, in order to 
earry on his work without interruption, and there 


wrote the Saxon Confession. Melanchthon called it 
15 


226 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


a repetition of the Augsburg Confession.. It was firm 
in tone, and defended the Lutheran doctrines as the 
only true and scriptural ones. It gave the undisputed 
articles in very brief form, but treated the disputed 
ones at greater length, and subjected to a sharp criti- 
cism the arguments which the papists had advanced 
against them. It was signed by the ambassador of 
the Margrave John, by a great number of Saxon pas- 
tors, and later by the deputies of Mansfeldt, Strasburg, 
Pomerania and Anspach. 

The council was re-opened at Trent on May Ist, but 
was immediately postponed till the following Septem- 
ber. For a long time nothing was said in Wittenberg 
about sending delegates. Suddenly, on December 13, 
1551, Melanchthon and Major received a command 
from the elector to start for Trent and to be in Nurem- 
berg by January 11. Melanchthon was much puzzled 
to know the meaning of this command. No instrue- 
tions of any kind were sent him for his guidance, no 
provision was made for an escort or for traveling ex- 
penses. He therefore directed his steps toward Dres- 
den to seek some enlightenment on the subject. But 
he could learn nothing there. He began to notice, 
however, that the elector was preparing for war. This 
troubled him. He feared Maurice was about to con- 
tract an alliance with the French. He then penned 
a letter to the elector, and expressed his scruples 
about the propriety of such a step. On January 6, 
1552, he returned as far as Leipzig. . Eight days later, 
in company with Sarcerius, Paciius, and his son-in- 
law, Peucer, he journeyed as far as Nuremberg. He 
arrived on January 22d. He now received a passport 


THE ELECTOR’S RUSE. 221 


from the Saxon commissioner at Trent, but still no 
instructions. Two letters of inquiry which he wrote 
to the court remained unanswered. He began to sus- 
pect that there was something behind all this, and his 
suspicions were confirmed when he heard a rumor 
that Maurice was preparing to make war upon the 
emperor. Indeed, it soon became evident that the 
* journey which Melanchthon had been commanded to 
make was not seriously meant to end in Trent at all. 
The elector was well satisfied to have Melanchthon 
remain at Nuremberg. The whole journey was sim- 
ply a ruse by which Maurice hoped to keep the em- 
peror in ignorance of his real intentions. 

Melanchthon was fond of Nuremberg and had many 
warm friends there. He was not at all displeased 
with the prospect of tarrying in that city, instead of 
proceeding to Trent and engaging in fruitless disputa- 
tions. He concluded to wait for instructions. He 
passed his time very pleasantly, and delivered about 
thirty lectures in the gymnasium which he had helped 
to establish. Finally, on March 9, no instructions hay- 
ing yet arrived, he returned to Wittenberg. 

In the meantime, important political events were 
taking place. The elector Maurice had been com- 
manded by the emperor to subdue the city of Magde- 
burg, which stubbornly resisted the introduction of 
the Interim. Much anxiety was felt for its fate. The 
feeling against Maurice, who was already an object of 
aversion to the Protestants, became very bitter when 
he undertook the siege of this bulwark of sound 
Lutheranism. But now Maurice, who had previously 
betrayed the Protestant cause by going over to the 


228 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


emperor, concluded to mend matters by betraying the 
emperor. His relations with Charles V. were every 


i 


si 


ExLector MAURICE oF SAXony. 


day becoming more galling. He continued, indeed, 
the siege of Magdeburg, but made a secret treaty with 
a number of Protestant princes, and promised to abide 


THE PROTESTANTS VICTORIOUS. 229 


by the Augsburg Confession and ‘to risk his land and 
people for the sake of the Gospel and German liberty. 
When Magdeburg capitulated, Maurice suddenly 
turned his arms and those of his allies, William of 
Hesse and the Margrave John, against the emperor. 
Charles was then at Innsbruck, and barely had time to 
escape before Maurice entered the city. The day be- 
fore his flight the emperor liberated John Frederick 
from his captivity. On August 2, 1552, the treaty of 
Passau was concluded. By its terms, religious liberty 
and equal civil rights at the next diet were guaranteed 
to the Protestants; those who had been banished were 
pardoned; and the landgrave Philip was released from 
captivity. 

The latter half of the year 1552 was spent by Me- 
lanchthon chiefly in Torgau, whither the university 
had been transferred because of the prevalence of the 
plague at Wittenberg. On account of the Osiandrian 
controversy, which had broken out in a new form 
through Francis Stancarus, he delivered lectures upon 
the three persons of the Holy Trinity. Stanearus had 
been called to Koenigsberg with the hope that he 
would be able to put an end to the dissensions created 
by Osiander. But he made matters worse by going 
to the opposite extreme and maintaining that Christ is 
our righteousness, not according to his divine, but ac- 
cording to his human nature only. Accused of 
heresy, he resigned his position. Early in 1552 he 
came to Wittenberg with a paper which he had pre- 
pared against Osiander. Receiving no encouragement 
here, he went to Frankfort-on-the-Oder, and from that 
city made attacks upon Melanchthon as well as upon 


230 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


his Koenigsberg opponents. He was soon involved in 
a violent controversy with Musculus. 

In order to restore peace, the elector of Branden- 
burg proposed the holding of a disputation in Berlin, 
and invited Bugenhagen and Melanchthon to attend 
it. Melanchthon replied that it was impossible for 
him to come, because he was then engaged in consult- 
ing with Sarcerius as to the pastors who should be ap- 
pointed for Augsburg, now that the Interim was abol- 
ished. He said, also, that he did not approve of the 
elector’s project. It would be better to send some 
sensible man to Wittenberg, and have a reply to Stan- 
carus prepared. He added that he did not know ex. 
actly what the latter’s position was; but if Stancarus 
maintained that Christ is the Mediator only according 
to his human nature, he was certainly in error. Christ 
is and remains the Mediator according to both natures. 
Mediation implies not only suffering in our stead, but 
also victory and intercession. The elector took Me- 
lanchthon’s advice. No disputation was held. But 
Melanchthon prepared a full and thorough discussion 
of the subject, and published it in 1553 under the 
title, “« An Answer to the Controversies of Stancarus.” 

Another departure from the true doctrine of justifi- 
cation was made by Matthias Lauterwald of Hungary. 
He denied that man is justified by faith alone, and 
maintained that grace is obtained by repentance and 
new obedience. Melanchthon was asked to prepare 
an opinion. He did so, and defended the formula, 
«“ We are justified by faith alone.” 

Toward the end of the year 1551, Nicholas von 
Amsdorf published a work in which he accused George 


THE MAJORISTIC CONTROVERSY. ' 231 


Major of having caused much division and contention 
through the Leipzig Interim, and of having contrib- 
uted much to the subversion of the true doctrine of 
justification by his use of the sentence, “ good works 
are necessary to salvation.” Major replied that he 
would not quarrel over the word “alone,’’ because he 
had always taught that man is justified by faith alone ; 
but that nevertheless he would continue to maintain, 
as he had in the past, the formula to which objection 
was made, because no one could be saved by evil 
works nor without good works. He defended his view 
from the pulpit. Violent attacks were made upon him 
from all sides, and he was compelled to resign his po- 
sition as general superintendent at Mansfeldt. His 
opponents accused him of being a Pelagian and a 
papist. 

Melanchthon took no active part in this contro- 
versy. He advised Major to drop the formula which 
gave such offense. Melanchthon had indeed used it 
himself, and had been attacked for so doing. But he 
had discontinued its use because it was liable to mis- 
construction, and because Luther disapproved of it. 
In the articles of Pegau he had again employed the 
expression for the sake of effecting a compromise. 
He had not meant, however, to conflict with the true 
Lutheran doctrine, nor to represent good works as the 
cause of justification, but to refer to the connection 
which exists between a justifying faith and a new life 
of obedience to God. It would have been well if 
Major had taken Melanchthon’s advice. But instead 
of dropping the objectionable formula at once, he de- 
fended it until the year 1562, when, for the sake of 


232 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


peace, he recalled it, after much mischief had been 
done. Amsdorf, in his violent opposition to Major, 
went so far as to advance the proposition, that good 
works are injurious to salvation, and published a pam- 
phlet intended to prove that this was taught by St. 
Paul and Luther. 

When Melanchthon’s opinion was asked by the elec- 
tor, whether a synod might not be able to settle the 
difficulties, he replied that he feared that it would do 
no good, and that he was inclined to agree with Nazi- 
anzen, who declared that he had never yet seen a 
synod which did not raise greater dissensions than ex- 
isted before. The elector, however, made some prepa- 
rations for a conference of the theologians. But shortly 
after this he was mortally wounded in the battle of 
Sievershausen. 

Augustus, the new elector, who succeeded his brother 
Maurice, was a friend of the Gospel. He thought highly 
of Melanchthon, and frequently sought his advice with 
reference to the universities, schools and churches. He 
willingly agreed to the suggestion of Duke Christopher 
of Wiirtemberg to call a convention of theologians 
for the purpose of quieting these controversies and de- 
ciding upon the course to be pursued in the approach- 
ing diet at Augsburg. This convention was held at 
Naumburg. Melanchthon arrived there May 20th, 
1554, with Forster and Camerarius. On the following 
day the Hessian delegates arrived, and on May 234d, 
still others. It was agreed that at the diet they would 
abide by the Augsburg Confession, or the similar con- 
fession of Brenz, or the Saxon Confession. They also 
condemned the errors of Schwenkfeldt and Osiander, 


THE RELIGIOUS PEACE OF AUGSBURG. 233 


and the re-introduction of Romish customs which had 
been abolished. Contrary to Melanchthon’s expecta- 
tions, great harmony prevailed in the meeting. Its 
resolutions were signed by all the theologians present, 
and afterwards accepted by Duke Christopher, whose 
theologians had failed to be present at the meeting. 

The diet was opened at Augsburg on February 5th, 
1555. It had been appointed to be held half a year 
after the treaty of Passau. But it was delayed for more 
than two years. It was fortunate for the Protestants 
that this delay occurred. In the interval Charles the 
Fifth was so much harassed by political troubles, that 
he was ready now to consent to concessions to which 
he would not have listened, if the diet had been held 
at an earlier date. After lengthy negotiations, the 
Religious Peace of Augsburg was concluded. It guar- 
anteed to the adherents of the Augsburg Confession 
equal rights with the Roman Catholics and the per- 
fect enjoyment of religious liberty. But it stipulated 
that if any Roman Catholic prelate turned Protestant, 
he should not only lose his ecclesiastical position, but 
his temporal power and dominion as well. This 
reservation interfered in a large measure with the fur- 
ther spread of the Reformation. 


a 


284 LIVE OF MELANONTHON, 


OHAPTER XXIII. 


THE CRYPTO-CALVINISTIC CONTROVERSY, NEGOTIATIONS 
with FLACTUS,. 1656-15567. 


T last religions liberty had been secured, The 
re Council of Trent might now resolve what it 
6 pleased, ita decrees would not trouble the 
Protestanta, Yet Melanchthon was far from giving 
way to rapture, THe feared that the conflict with the 
Roman Catholics was not over; and he waa filled with 
anxiety by the dissensions which existed among the 
Proteatanta, To his great distress the doctrine of the 
Lord's Supper was made the subject of a new con- 
Lroveray, 

By the Wittenberg Concord of 1536, an agreement 
had been reached betwoon the Lutherans and the cities 
of upper, or southern, Germany, But this agreement 
wis more than onee disturbed, In 1544 Luther had 
felt compelled to publish his final Confession of the 
Holy Sacrament against the Fanatics, This showed 
conclusively that a union with the Zwinglians was im- 
possible, But many «till hoped that a union might be 
effected with the Calviniata, Since the adoption of 
the Wittenberg Concord, it had been regarded as the 
true Protestant doctrine, that Christ is really present 
in the Lord's Supper. The manner of that presence 
waa to be loft an open question, But when John Cal- 
vin of Genova openly maintained that the body and 
blood of Chriat are not physically present at all under 


THE CRYPTO-CALVINISTIC CONTROVERSY. 235 


the bread and wine, and that Christ is received only 
spiritually by the believing communicant, a violent 
controversy followed. 

While it cannot be said that Melanchthon regarded 
the Lutheran doctrine of the real presence as errone- 
ous, he believed that Calvin’s doctrine did no real vio- 
lence to the Scriptures and might be tolerated. But 
the Lutherans did not all agree with Melanchthon. 
In 1552 Joachim Westphal of Hamburg published a 
pamphlet in which he openly assailed Calvin’s doc- 
trine, and asserted that it was secretly accepted by 
many Lutheran theologians. He showed that the Re- 
formed party from Zwingli to Calvin had given no 
less than twenty-eight different interpretations of the 
words of institution. In 1553 he issued a seeond 
publication entitled, “The True Faith concerning the 
Lord’s Supper, proved from the Words of the Apos- 
tle Paul and the Evangelists.” The zeal of the Luth- 
erans against the Calvinists became thoroughly aroused. 
John von Lasco, who, with a band of French and Dutch 
Protestants, had been banished from England by Queen 
Mary, found it impossible to discover a place in Ger- 
many where his party might settle, because he had de- 
clared himself a Calvinist. In 1554 Calvin published 
a work in which he took the part of these exiles, and 
defended his doctrine. A violent controversy soon 
raged throughout Germany. 

Melanchthon was accused by some of holding Cal- 
vin’s doctrine. But this charge cannot be substanti- 
ated. That he did not completely agree with Luther 
is equally certain. Out of regard for Melanchthon’s 
services, Luther had borne his change of views with a 


236 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


toleration, which, in a man of his character, was noth- 
ing short of remarkable. But Luther’s adherents 
were not inclined to be so tolerant. Exactly what 
Melanchthon believed, it is difficult to determine. The 
formulas which he drew up were meant to be such as 
all who acknowledged the real presence might be able 
to subscribe. He took no part in the controversy be- 
tween the Lutherans and the Calvinists, though both 
parties endeavored to force him to express himself 
upon the subject. Gallus and Westphal published 
selections from his former works, by which they sought 
to prove that, at least during Luther’s life-time, Me- 
lanchthon was on their side. Calvin endeavored to 
wring a statement from him by asserting, that he un- 
derstood the Augsburg Confession in the same sense 
as its author, and could therefore readily subscribe to 
it. But Melanchthon could not be brought to make a 
public statement. In 1556 he wrote to the electoral 
counselor Mordeisen, who had urged him to express 
his views: “I know certainly that your court will not 
tolerate a defense of the truth in this article. Iwould 
prefer not to begin at all, rather than, having begun, 
to drop the matter again at your command, and thus 
do injury to the truth.” From this it would appear, 
that his views were, to some extent at least, at vari- 
ance with those of the strict Lutherans, and that he 
thought he would not be permitted by the elector to 
defend his position, if he advanced it openly. Per- 
haps it was not, however, the personal loss which he 
might suffer, if banished from Wittenberg, but rather 
the dread of controversy and the fear of adding to the 
existing distress of the Church, which deterred him 


THE CRYPTO-CALVINISTIC CONTROVERSY. 237 


from an open avowal of his convictions. He was by 
nature averse to strife and contention; he saw its dis- 
tracting effect upon the Church; he was getting old 
and was weary of the constant turmoil, and longed to 
die, so that he might escape “from the fury of the 
theologians.” 

The dissensions among the Protestants were all the 
more to be regretted, because another diet was to be 
held at Ratisbon in 1556, and another eftort was to be 
made to bring about unity in religion. How could 
the Protestants, divided as they were, maintain their 
cause against the Roman Catholics? The holding of 
a convention to restore harmony was suggested by 
some of the princes; but they received little encour- 
agement. Amsdorf, Aurifaber, Stoltz, and the other 

Lutheran theologians most actively engaged in the 
controversy, held a special convention at Weimar in 
January, 1556. They decided not to agree to a recon- 
ciliation, until the Wittenbergers unequivocally pledged 
themselves to maintain the Augsburg Confession and 
to repudiate Zwinglianism and synergism.  Fortu- 
nately for the Protestant cause, the proposed diet was 
postponed till the following year. By that time the 
relations between the theologians of Weimar and Wit- 
tenberg had become somewhat easier. 

To Melanchthon’s surprise, his old antagonist Flacius 
made overtures of peace in the summer of 1556, and 
proposed a personal conference. Flacius prepared a 
few “mild propositions,” as a basis of peace. He sent 
these propositions. to Eber; but they were so harsh, 
particularly in the eleventh article, that Eber did not 
give them to Melanchthon. On July 18th, Flacius 


238 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


wrote to Hubert Languetus, who had Jong been an in- 
timate friend of Melanchthon, requesting him to ar- 
range a conference at Coswig, promising to be mild 
and peaceful in his behavior. 

Melanchthon had at first been inclined to accept the 
advances of his antagonist, but he changed his mind 
and wrote to Languetus, that he had long desired a 
conference to consider the articles in dipute, but that 
it would be useless to hold a meeting with such un- 
learned, raging ranters as Stoltz, Gallus and Aurifaber. 
He would like to confer with Flacius, because they 
had been on terms of intimate friendship so long; but 
when he thought of the things which Flacius had ac- 
eused him of saying, but which had never entered his 
mind, much less been spoken by him, he was com- 
pelled to fear the same insincerity on the part of 
Flacius now, and must therefore decline to meet him. 
None of his friends were willing to be present at such 
an interview, and he would not, after what had hap- 
pened, care to meet him alone. 

On receiving this reply Flacius politely expressed 
his regrets in a letter to Languetus. He also wrote to 
Melanchthon, and called his attention to the “ leniency 
and consideration”? which he had shown to Melanch- 
thon hitherto. He asked Melanchthon to think of the 
letter which the latter had written to the Venetian 
ambassador Teupolus in 1530, and which Flacius had 
kindly refrained from publishing; of his relations to 
the adiaphora and the Leipzig Interim; of his indif- 
ference to the controversy with Major, and then to 
judge whether he had reason to complain of Flacius’ 
treatment. To this Melanchthon replied on Septem- 


NEGOTIATIONS WITH FLACIUS. 239 


ber 4th: “ You direct attention to the consideration 
which you have shown me, because you did not pub- 
lish the letter which I wrote to Teupolus. I never 
wrote a syllable to him. I simply paid him a visit by 
command of the elector, and spoke a number of things 
in defense of the Reformation. I cannot recall the 
words which Iused. Others, who seem to have a bet- 
ter memory, have remembered some of them, added 
other things to them, and manufactured a letter with 
which Rorarius already reproached me, and of which 
I received a copy from the margrave. You may 
judge for yourself what merit is attached to your 
action, in not assailing me with such a piece of bun- 
gling. You have also published the Leipzig Interim 
with all manner of mutilations and additions. As re- 
gards the negotiations about that Interim, I strove 
vehemently, as everybody knows, against every change 
which was to be introduced through that Augsburg 
Sphinx, and I engaged in many a conflict with the 
courtiers, until finally the elector declared, that he did 
not ask for any change in doctrine or essential matters, 
but only the retention of a few indifferent customs, 
which the counselors called adiaphora. I knew very 
well that even unimportant changes would be dis- 
tasteful to the people. But as the doctrines: were 
preserved intact, I preferred that our people should 
endure this minor servitude, rather than leave the ser- 
vice of the Church on account of these things. This 
is what I did. Then youbegan to contend. I yielded 
and endeavored to avoid controversy. I acknowledge 
that I erred in this matter, and pray God to for- 
give me for not fleeing far from such treacherous de- 


240 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


liberations. But those things of which you and Gal- 
lus falsely accuse me, I shall refute. As respects 
Major, I have always exhorted him to give up his 
offensive formula, and he promised me to do so. I 
myself do not use it, but teach, ‘the new obedience is 
necessary because it is an inevitable law, that the crea- 
ture should obey the Creator.’ ”’ In conclusion he said 
that, if a reconciliation was to be effected, it would be 
best to have the propositions prepared by impartial 
judges. There must, he declared, be one confession 
in doctrine. And as he acknowledged that he erred 
with respect to the ceremonies, Flacius should not 
continue to bring false accusations against him. 
Flacius was not satisfied with this declaration. He 
was evidently determined, either to humble Melanch- 
thon by compelling him to make a public recantation, 
or to hold him up before all the world as a teacher of 
heresy. To accomplish his purpose, he relied upon 
the Superintendents Valentine Curtius of Liibeck, 
Paul von Eitzen of Hamburg, Joachim Moérlin of 
Brunswick, and Frederick Henning of Liineburg, who 
_oftered to act as umpires. These met in Magdeburg 
January 17, 1557, and pledged themselves to adhere 
to the confession which had been published against 
the Interim, in 1550, under the title, “ Confession, In- 
struction and Admonition of the Pastors and Preachers 
of the Christian Congregations of Magdeburg.” While 
these men proceeded to Wittenberg with eight articles 
of agreement, Flacius with his friends Wigand, Judex, 
and Baumgiirtner, remained in the neighboring town 
of Coswig, and exhorted the others not to spare the 
Wittenbergers nor to be daunted by the fact that Me- 


241 


NEGOTIATIONS WITH EFLACIUS. 


Yi Sa 


Wey 


MMOL LLLLLLLLZE 
WiLmnan~z, Z 


cHim M6rRuIn, 


Dr. JOA 


16 


242, LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


lanchthon had formerly been their teacher, but to 
probe to the bottom of the matter. 

On January 21st, at six o’clock in the morning, 
Melanchthon opened the proceedings in his own house 
with an address, which, for the sake of caution, he had 
prepared in manuscript form. He accepted the super- 
intendents as mediators, but told them that, in order 
to effect peace, it would be necessary to take up the 
whole body of Protestant doctrine; for otherwise 
Flacius would soon find a new excuse for starting a 
controversy. Thereupon Morlin presented the eight 
articles which had been prepared. They contained 
the following conditions of agreement: 1. Unity of 
doctrine shall be restored on the basis of the Augs- 
burg Confession and the Schmaleald Articles. 2. All 
conflicting errors of the papists, Interimists, Anabap- 
tists and sacramentarians shall be rejected. 3. All 
corruptions shall be eradicated from the doctrine of 

ustification, particularly that of the necessity of good 
works for salvation. 4. The Saxon churches shall 
not depart from the confession which they published 
_at the time of the last persecution. 5. No agreement 
shall be made with the papists concerning ceremonies, 
unless first an agreement in doctrine be reached. 6. 
In times of persecution a sincere confession shall be 
made, and no servitude in conflict with Christian 
liberty shall be admitted. 7. “ We also kindly entreat 
our teacher to testify in some public writing, that his views 
concerning indifferent matters and the necessity of good 
works for salvation harmonize with the confessions of our 
churches.” 8. If one of the parties be suspected of 
heresy, a declaration shall be required. 


PACIFIC LUTHERAN 
THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY 


NEGOTIATIONS WITH FLACIUS. 243 


When Melanchthon had read these articles, he be- 
came very indignant, and broke off the negotiations. 
On the next day, however, he had become somewhat 
calmer. He then gave the following reply: “ When, 
in the year 1541, I bade farewell at Ratisbon to my 
friend Jacob Sturm, and said that I did not believe I 
would ever see him again in this world, he jokingly 
replied, ‘We shall come some time to crucify you.’ 
His prophecy is now being fulfilled. After laboring 
so hard for many years, I am assailed on all sides, and 
dare not even lay claim to your sympathy. You pre- 
tend to be mediators, and yet you lay before me arti- 
cles with which I am expected to strangle myself and 
my friends. You make it impossible for me to take 
a single step without peril. If I agree to your arti- 
cles, many in our churches will have cause to com- 
plain of me; if I do not agree to them, you will still 
further excite your party against me. What shall I 
‘do? Iwill agree to most of your articles, if you will 
remove from me the suspicion of having perverted the 
doctrine of justification, and will not unconditionally 
condemn the necessity of good works. But the sevy- 
enth article I unequivocally reject. Even if I yielded 
at the wrong time, I am convinced that my view of 
indifferent matters is correct.” 

When the mediators brought this reply to Flacius, 
he became greatly enraged, put the articles in a still 
more drastic form, and sent the mediators back, bid- 
ding them “ lay the articles, with the additions, before 
the old teacher of errors, and tell him that, if he ac- 
cepted the articles, Flacius would permit him to omit 
the public recantation.” It is likely that the superin- 


244 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


tendents were by no means anxious to execute this 
unpleasant commission. But they returned with the 
articles. Melanchthon thanked them for their efforts 
in the interests of harmony, but rejected the renewed 
demands made of him, and declared that this answer 
was final. 

In February John Albert of Mecklenburg endeay- 
ored to bring about a reconciliation. He sent Vene- 
tus of Rostock and Mylius, one of his counselors, with 
a new formula, in which all the controverted subjects 
were thoroughly treated, and all decided in favor of 
the Magdeburg theologians. Melanchthon listened to 
their proposals, but refused to enter into any new ne- 
gotiations, and sent them away with a very short 
answer. 

In April of this year Flacius received a call to Jena, 
where the gymnasium had been converted into a uni- 
versity. About the same time Melanchthon received 
a call to Heidelberg. This would have been a good 
opportunity to get farther away from the Flacians. 
At the request of the elector, however, he decided to 
‘remain at Wittenberg. But he was weary of the strife 
and contention which raged all about him. He wrote 
to Camerarius, that he would be best pleased, if he 
could end his days at some solitary place in Palestine, 
as Jerome did, but that he could not do so because he 
had a family to support. 


THE RELIGIOUS CONFERENCE AT WORMS. 24% 


or 


CHHSAG PIU eee Vs 
THE RELIGIOUS CONFERENCE AT WORMS. 1557. 


ELANCHTHON was tainted with some of 
the superstitions of his age. The predic- 
tion which had been made of him in his 

infancy by an astrologer, that he would be ship- 
wrecked on the Baltic Sea, recurred to him in the 
summer of 1557, when the elector decided to pay a 
visit to his father-in-law, the king of Denmark, and 
desired Melanchthon to accompany him. Some con- 
troversies were raging in Denmark, which the elector 
hoped his theologian might be able to end. When 
Melanchthon heard of it, he feared that the prediction 
made in his infancy was about to be fulfilled. 

He was much relieved when he learned that the 
elector had changed his mind and that, instead of ac- 
companying that ruler, he was to go to Worms and 
take part in the religious colloquy to be held there. 
After receiving his instructions, he departed, accom- 
panied by Peucer and a few other friends. When 
they arrived in Frankfort, August 26th, they learned 
that the Weimar delegates, Schnepf, Strigel, Stoessel, 
and the chancellor Monner, were busily engaged in 
agitating against the Wittenbergers. But Melanch- 
thon continued his journey and arrived two days later 
in Worms. The theologians present were filled with 
joy at his coming. Those of Weimar alone did not 
rejoice. 


246 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


Before the religious conference opened, Monner and 
his friends insisted upon specifically condemning, not 
only the doctrines of the Anabaptists, Schwenkfeldt, 
and Servetus, but all kinds of Zwinglianism, Major’s 
formula of the necessity of good works, Osiander’s 
doctrine of justification, and all those persons who had 
yielded during the Interim and had not acknowledged 
their error. These demands were made by Monner 
and Schnepf at a meeting of the Protestant theolo- 
gians, held on September 5th. They declared that, if 
their demands were not accepted, they would have 
nothing to do with the approaching conference. But 
the most that the Weimar delegates could accomplish 
was to have these demands recorded as an expression 
of their individual views. 

On September 11th, the negotiations with the Ro- 
man Catholics commenced. In the opening sessions, 
the conditions of the debate were discussed with much 
warmth. The Roman Catholics maintained that the 
perpetual consensus of the Church was to be taken as 
the criterion; the Protestants, that the Holy Serip- 
tures and the ancient confessional symbols were to be 
so taken. The discussion became still more violent 
when the doctrine of Original Sin was taken up. The 
Roman Catholics were by no means desirous to pro- 
tract the conference. They wanted it broken up as 
speedily as possible. The wily Bishop Helding of 
Merseburg (Sidonius) raised the question, whether the 
Protestants who accepted the Augsburg Confession all 
agreed in the condemnation of the Zwinglians, Cal- 
vinists, Osiandrians, and the like. Melanchthon per- 
ceived what the bishop was aiming at, and replied that 


; THE RELIGIOUS CONFERENCE AT WORMS. 247 


when the respective articles came up for consideration, 
an answer would be given to this question. The 
Weimar theologians wanted to hand in the articles of 
condemnation which they had prepared. But the others 
objected, and told them either to drop their intention 
or remain away from the conference entirely. 

The Weimar theologians now claimed that they 
were excluded from the conference. They handed in 
a protest and departed from Worms. The other theo- 
logians were ready to continue the discussion. - But 
the Roman Catholics declined to do so. They said 
that they did not know whether they would be treat- 
ing with the true adherents of the Augsburg Con- 
fession or not. The presiding officer, Julius von 
Pflug, decided to adjourn the conference, and wait for 
instructions from King Ferdinand. 

While these matters were in progress, there came a 
delegation from France to request the theologians to 
intercede with their respective rulers in behalf of a 
number of Protestants who were imprisoned in Paris 
on account of their faith, They were kindly received 
by Melanchthon, and through his exertions the princes 
were prevailed upon to send a letter of intercession to 
Henry IL, King of France. 

Melanchthon had little to do in Worms after the 
suspension of the conference. He therefore accepted 
an invitation from the Elector Otto Henry to come to 
Ileidelberg and assist in the re-organization of the uni- 
versity. While staying in that city, he received a visit 
from his brother George and his friend Camerarius. 
Great was his joy over these arrivals. But his joy was 
short-lived. Camerarius had brought sorrowful news. 


248 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


Melanchthon’s wife had died on October 11th. When 
he heard the sad tidings, he looked up toward heaven 
and said, “Farewell. I shall soon follow thee.” 
Walking with his friend through the elector’s gar- 
dens, he spoke of the dissensions which rent the 
Church, and the times which were so full of distress. 
But his thoughts recurred ever and anon to the loss 
which he had sustained. The beloved partner of his 
life was gone, and his sorrow could not be brushed 
aside. On October 81st, he wrote to Wittenberg: 
“ Although I gather together all the consolations 
possible to soothe my grief, and recollect that my 
wife had arrived at an age when she could not expect 
to live many years more; that the attacks to which 
she was so long subject became increasingly painful; 
and that if I had died first she would have had to suf- 
fer still more; yet the love which I bore to her, and 
the thought of my grandchildren who have lost so 
much by her death, make me almost give way under 
my grief.” 

Melanchthon returned again to Worms and re- 
mained there the greater part of November. Finally, 
on November 18th, Ferdinand’s instructions arrived. 
He demanded the recall of the Weimar delegates. 
The Roman Catholics insisted that they would not 
proceed until this had been done. But as the Protest- 
ants refused to do this, the conference was adjourned 
until the meeting of the next diet. The Protestants 
lodged complaint and protest against this adjourn- 
ment, and in the beginning of December wended their 
way homeward. 

Much bitterness of feeling was engendered by the 


THE RELIGIOUS CONFERENCE AT WORMS. 249 


outcome of this conference. The Weimar theologians 
laid the blame upon Melanchthon and his adherents, 
and said that these “holy pharisees” had excluded 
them from the negotiations and sent them home; Me- 
lanchthon’s adherents laid the blame upon the Roman 
Catholics; while the Roman Catholics, delighted with 
the dissensions so apparent among the Lutherans, 
spared no pains to exhibit these divisions to all the 
world, and to prove that, after the Protestants had cut 
loose from Rome, no different result could have been 
expected. 

Melanchthon had made an attempt to restore har- 
mony between the Protestants. After he returned 
from Heidelberg to Worms, he had been requested by 
several princes to endeavor to bring about a reconcilia- 
tion. He drew up a formula for the purpose. In the 
article of justification he emphasized the fact, that we 
are justified by faith alone. He opposed Osiander’s 
doctrine, and with regard to Major’s formula stated 
simply, ‘“‘ Good works are necessary,” leaving away the 
objectionable part of the proposition, ‘ unto salvation.” 
Concerning the Lord’s Supper he declared, that the 
real presence of Christ was not to be doubted. He 
rejected transubstantiation, local inclusion of the body 
and blood in the bread and wine, and Zwinglianism, 
which regarded the bread and wine simply as signs. 
« Christ is substantially present in such a manner, that, 
by the communication of his body and blood, He 
makes us members of his body and gives assurance 
that He applies to us his benefits, wishes to be effica- 
cious in us, and desires to save and vivify our miserable 
being which has been planted in Him; as Hilary also 


250 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


declares, ‘ Eating and drinking these bring it to pass, 
that He is in us, and we in Him.’” This formula of 
agreement received the approval of all the theologians 
but those of Wittenberg. These made some objection 
to the article on justification where it treated of Osi- 
ander. When Melanchthon saw that a dispute was 
likely to follow upon this point, he withdrew his for- 
mula until the subject should come up in the regular 
order of discussion at the conference. But as this con- 
ference came to a sudden and unexpected end, nothing 
resulted from Melanchthon’s form of agreement. 


CHAPTER XXYV. 


’ 


HIS LAST YEARS AND DEATH. 1558-1560. 


HE dissensions in the Protestant Church were 
becoming greater and more formidable every 
day. But for this, the Reformation would 

have triumphed in many places where thus it failed. 
The Protestant princes were filled with dismay at the 
sight of the controversies which were so rife among 
the theologians, but they were powerless to restore 
harmony. There was no prospect that synods, even 
if called together, would be able to accomplish any 
good. 

An effort was made, however, to bring about peace. 
In March, 1558, the electors of Germany met in Frank- 
fort and conferred the imperial crown upon King 
Ferdinand. The three Protestant electors agreed at 


HIS LAST YEARS AND DEATH. sri l 


the same time, that the best way to restore harmony 
in the Church would be, to have all parties subscribe 
an agreement prepared for the purpose. The agree- 


EMPEROR FERDINAND I. 


ment which they had in mind was an “opinion” 
drawn up on the subject by Melanchthon, and known 
by the name of the Recess of Frankfort. No sooner 
was this opinion made public, than the stricter Luth- 


252 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


erans began an attack upon it. Flacius called it the 
“Samaritan Interim.” Amsdorf, at the request of 
Duke John Frederick, prepared a refutation. The 
Magdeburg theologians said that the princes wanted 
to make themselves the law-givers in matters of faith? 
It was even proposed to hold a synod for the purpose 
of condemning the action of the princes. This effort, 
therefore, which was intended to effect a reconcilia- 
tion, served only to add fuel to the flames. 

To make matters worse, the synergistic controversy 
was added to those which already existed. In 1550, 
Dr. Pfeffinger had published some propositions on the 
freedom of the will, and had been at once attacked by 
the strict Lutherans. But presently the matter was 
forgotten. Early in 1558, however, Amsdorf came 
out with his “ Public Confession of the True Doctrine 
of the Gospel, and Confutation of the Fanatics of the 
Present Time.” He declared that Pfeffinger had ad- 
vanced the proposition, that the will of man conspired 
with the grace of God. Pfeffinger republished his 
propositions, and put forth a reply in which he claimed, 
that he had been misrepresented; that he had simply 
maintained that the human will cannot, indeed, incite 
itself to any good work and must be awakened by the 
Holy Spirit; but that the human will is not excluded 
in conversion and must do its share, because the Holy 
Ghost does not deal with men as with blocks and 
stones. 

A violent controversy followed, in which many 
darts, ostensibly aimed at others, were meant to strike 
Melanchthon. For a long time, however, he did not 
reply. Finally, in 1559, the Dukes of Saxony pub- 


HIS LAST YEARS AND DEATH. 253 


lished a “ Confutation ” in which all the heresies which 
had hitherto appeared in the Lutheran Church, in- 
cluding the last one of all, Synergism, were formally 
condemned. Synergism was represented in this work 
as the error of the adiaphorists, and the doctrines 
which were condemned were conched in the language 
of Melanchthon. To this he made reply. In March 
he sent his son-in-law Peucer to the elector at Dresden 
with a writing, in which he declared that the whole 
article in the “ Confutation” referring to synergism 
was directed against him, but that he must stand by 
his convictions. It is true, he said, that God through 
the Word sends the Holy Spirit into the heart and 
works in it, and that the prevenient grace of God is 
necessary for conversion; but that conversion follows 
only when the human will co-operates with divine 
grace. ; 

The elector sent this opinion to the landgrave, and 
the landgrave sent it to the younger John Frederick, 
with the remark, that the paper had his approval. 
John Frederick replied that he did not know of a 
single place in the Confutation in which Melanch- 
thon’s name was mentioned; but that if Melanchthon 
had cried out, he must have been hit. At the land- 
grave’s request, however, John Frederick consented 
to release Strigel, who had been imprisoned for his 
synergistic views, and to arrange for a colloquium be- 
tween Flacius and Strigel. In the meeting which fol- 
lowed between these two, it happened that Flacius, 
the great champion of orthodoxy who had assailed Me- 
lanchthon so violently; made a misstep himself. In 
the excitement of debate, he asserted that original sin 


254 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


is not an accident but the essence of human nature, 
He obstinately refused to retract his statement, and 
was therefore banished for his heresy. THe died in 
great poverty in 1575. 

In September, 1558, there were published thirty-one 
articles by the authorities of Bavaria for the use of the 
Inquisition in that State. In May of the following 

year, Melanchthon issued a “Reply to the Wicked 
Articles of the Bavarian Inquisition.” This publica- 
tion is valuable, because it appeared so shortly before 
his death and therefore presents the views which he 
held on many of the subjects involved in the contro- 
versies of the time. In this work he not only se- 
verely attacked the Roman Catholics, but expressed 
himself upon the controverted doctrines of the Luth- 
eran Church, In his last will and testament he states 
that he wants this reply to be regarded as his confes- 
sion, Concerning conversion, he claims that grace 
precedes, and the human will follows, as Chrysostom 
says: God draws, but only him who is willing. “ At 
the same time I confess,” he adds, “that in all the 
saints, God accomplishes most of the work in sucha 
way, that the will remains a passive subject. Never- 
theless, this rule is to be maintained: Faith cometh by 
hearing, it is nourished by meditation upon the prom- 
ise, it is assailed by mistrust. Amid true sighings we 
may say, ‘I believe, Lord, help thou mine unbe- 
lief.’ ” 

Melanchthon now became involved also in a dis- 
pute which raged in the Palatinate) concerning the 
Lord’s Supper. A controversy arose there between 
the general superintendent Hesshus of Heidelberg and 


HIS LAST YEARS AND DEATH. 255 


the deacon Klebitz. The latter held Calvinistic views. 
The elector of that State, Frederick IIL., deposed both 
of them from office, and sent to Melanechthon for ad- 
vice. He wanted to know, whether he had acted 
properly, what was Melanchthon’s opinion of the 
merits of the controversy, and how harmony might 
be restored. In his reply, Melanchthon approved the 
elector’s course, and adyised the employment of the 
apostle Paul’s formula: “The bread which we break, 
is it not the communion of the body of Christ?” The 
apostle, he declared, “did not say that the nature of 
the bread is changed, as the papists maintain. He 
did not say that the bread is the substantial body of 
Christ, as those of Bremen maintain. He did not say 
that the bread is the true body of Christ, as Hesshus 
does; but that it is a communion, that is to say, it is 
that by which a union with the body of Christ is ef- 
fected, and which takes place during the use [of the 
sacrament] and by no means without cogitation, as 
for instance, if mice should eat the bread. Most 
fiercely do the papists, and others like them, quarrel 
over the question, whether it should be said that the 
body of Christ is, apart from its reception, contained 
in the form of bread or in the bread, and demand its 
adoration. Thus Morlinus of Brunswick has said: 
‘You must not say mum, mum, but must say what 
this is which the priest holds in hishand.’. . . . Christ 
is not present on account of the bread, but on account 
of man, as He said, ‘Abide in me, and I in you.’ 
Again, ‘I am in my: Father, and ye in me and I in 
you.’ And in these two consolations He makes us 
his members, and testifies that He will make our 


256 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


bodies alive. Thus the ancients explain the Lord’s 
Supper.” 

While it would seem from this, that Melanchthon’s 
view of the Lord’s Supper was as much in accord with 
Calvin’s as Luther’s, still this does not in itself prove 
that he sought to drive out Lutheranism and intro- 
duce Calvinism in the Palatinate. His aim for many 
years had been to prepare a formula which Lutherans 
and Calvinists both might accept. It is true, the 
elector of the Palatinate banished the Lutherans, and 
introduced the Reformed doctrines. But it would be 
unjust to Melanchthon to say that he advised or 
sought such a result. 

The aged Brenz, who had hitherto been on very 
friendly terms with Melanchthon, was so aggrieved by 
the change effected in the Palatinate, that he assem- 
bled a synod in Stuttgart and had the doctrine of the 
ubiquity of Christ’s body received into the confessions 
of the Church of Wiirtemberg. As Melanchthon 
had but recently, in his reply to the articles of the 
Bavarian inquisition; expressed himself strongly 
against this doctrine, another controversy was added 
to those which already existed. The princes proposed 
the holding of a synod, but Melanchthon objected on 
the ground, that synods have been the cause of great 
disorders, and that it was about.as perilous to call one 
as to declare a war. 

Melanchthon was much distressed by the troubles 
of his friend Hardenberg of Bremen. When Hesshus 
had been expelled from the Palatinate, he fled to Bre- 
men, where the prevailing doctrine of the Lord’s Sup- 
greed with his own. Hardenberg alone stood 


per ag 


HIS LAST YEARS AND DEATH. DG 


accused of Calvinism. Hesshus was offered a position, 
but he refused to accept, unless Hardenberg changed 
his views. He proposed a discussion with Harden- 
berg. Melanchthon wrote to the latter, and advised 
him not to accept the challenge. But when arrange- 
ments for the discussion were made nevertheless, Me- 
lanchthon resolved to go to Bremen to support his 
friend. The discussion, however, did not take place. 
Hardenberg at the last moment refused to take part in 
it. He was deposed from his office in February, 1561. 

Melanchthon did not live to see this. The death 
for which he had longed came at last, released him 
from his woes, and introduced him into a world where 
he might enjoy that peace which was denied him 
here. Many of his best friends had preceded him to 
the better world. Luther, Cruciger, Dietrich, Bucer, 
George von Anhalt, Sturm, Bugenhagen—these had 
all been called to their eternal reward, while he had been 
left weary and worn and sad to struggle on. His soul 
longed for peace; yet for thirty years he had been in- 
volved in continuous struggles and controversies, either 
with the Roman Catholics, or with the stricter wing of 
the Lutherans. Just a few weeks before he died, he 
wrote to his friend Baumgirtner of Nuremberg: “I 
am consumed by my longing for the heavenly Father- 
land.” After his death there was found on his desk 
a paper on which he had shortly before enumerated 
“‘the reasons why one ought to have the less dread of 
death.” On the left he had written: “Thou shalt 
escape from sin; thou shalt be freed from care and from 
the fury of the theologians.” On the right: “Thou 
shalt come into the light; thou shalt see God; thou 

17 


258 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


shalt behold the Son of God: thou shalt learn those 
wonderful mysteries which in this world thou couldst 
not comprehend, why we are thus formed, what is the 
character of the union of the two natures.” An old 
record declares, that he had for several years been 
looking for death, that “he had done as much as he 
could in this life, and would commit the rest to God. 
He comforted himself with the reflection, that his in- 
tentions had been sincere and upright, and his con- 
science did not accuse him of wilful wrong. With 
this clear conscience he expected to go into the pres- 
ence of his Saviour Jesus Christ, with God’s help, not- 
withstanding all that an ungrateful world might say.” 
He was indeed becoming worn out. And who that 
thinks of the enormous amount of labor which he 
performed, the many struggles which he endured, and 
the anxiety which so constantly preyed upon him, can 
wonder that it should be so? The marvel is that so 
frail and delicate a frame lasted as long as it did. 
Toward the end of March, 1560, he journeyed to 
Leipzig to attend an examination of students. On 
April 4th, he returned to Wittenberg in the face of a 
bitter north wind. He suffered greatly from the cold, 
and said that he had not felt it so much through the 
whole winter. Four days later he was attacked by a 
fever, and felt a sense of oppression on his chest. He 
looked very ill, and his friends became alarmed. He 
endeavored to work, but found it necessary to stop 
frequently and rest. His son-in-law, the physician 
Caspar Peucer, supposed it was a new attack of gravel, 
and ordered a warm bath and poultices. Melanchthon 
was so weak that he could hardly totter to the wash- 


HIS LAST YEARS AND DEATH. 259 


bowl, and remarked, “I shall go out like a feeble 
light.” In spite of his weakness, he wanted to deliver 
his lectures as usual. Two friends accompanied him 
to the lecture-hall. But when they arrived there, they 
found that they were too early, and that very few stu- 
dents were present. He felt so ill that he decided to 
return home. At nine he went again to the university, 
but was unable to speak longer than a quarter of an 
hour. 

A warm bath improved his condition a little. He 
partook of some food, and retired to rest for three 
hours. At supper time, he was somewhat. better. 
Then for a few days it seemed as if he would recover. 
On April 10th he remarked, while revising his funeral 
oration on Duke Philip of Pomerania, who had died 
February 24th, “I am engaged in funeral matters 
now. This worthy prince was named Philip; per- 
haps I will be the next Philip, from among the com- 
mon people, to follow him.” 

On Good Friday, April 12th, he delivered a festival 
meditation on Isaiah 53. He slept soundly that night 
and imagined, when he awoke, that he was singing, as 
he had done in his boyhood, “ With desire have I de- 
sired to eat this passover with you before I suffer.” 
On Saturday he wrote an Easter Meditation, carrying 
it to the printing office himself. Then he went to 
church and received the Lord’s Supper. Later in the 
day he went to see what progress the printers were 
making, and this was the last time he was seen alive 
on the street. Toward night the fever again set in. 
His friend Camerarius arrived to see him about four 
o'clock. He found Melanchthon at the foot of the 


260 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


stairway leading to his room, and assisted him to as- 
cend. The next morning, which was Easter, Me- 
lanchthon was very weak. Still, he made prepara- 
tions to deliver the Easter meditation which he had 
prepared the preceding day. He was not at all pleased 
when he learned, that announcement had been made 
that he would be unable to appear. 

On Monday he conversed for a long time with his 
friend Camerarius. “My dear Joachim,’ he said, 
“we have now been good friends for nearly forty 
years. We have loved each other, and have never 
sought to take advantage of one another. We have 
been true schoolmasters and faithful friends, each in 
his place, and I trust that our labors have not been in’ 
vain, but have done much good. If it should be God’s 
will that I shall now die, we will continue our friend- 
ship in the world to come.” 

As Melanchthon seemed to be feeling better, Came- 
rarius bade him farewell on Tuesday, April 17th, and 
promised to return as soon as his engagements would 
permit him to do so. The last words which Melanch- 
thon spoke to his friend were these: “ The Son of God, 
who sits at the right hand of his heavenly Father and 
bestows gifts upon men, preserve you and yours and 
all of us. Give your wife my kind regards.” As he 
rode away, Melanchthon went to a window and looked 
intently after him. When Camerarius again came to 
Wittenberg, Melanchthon was dead. 

A new attack of the fever set in almost immediately. 
The sick man became weaker and weaker. He felt 
that his end was approaching fast. He asked for a 
copy of his will, which he had prepared at a previous 


HIS LAST YEARS AND DEATH. 261 


period. When it could not be found, he began a new 
one, but was unable to complete it. On April 18th, 
he inquired of Peucer what hope there was of his re-, 
covery. Peucer reluctantly confessed that there was 
but little. Melanchthon replied: “Yes, I know my 
weakness, and am well aware what it means. I have 
committed the whole matter to God. I pray Him to 
deal mercifully with me.” On the 19th his pulse be- 
came very weak. The professors and many of the 
students gathered anxiously around his bed. Portions 
of the Holy Scripture were read to him. He said that 
the words which were particularly dear to him were 
these: “ As many as received Him, to them gave he 
power to become the sons of God.” The troubles 
which afflicted the Church occupied his thoughts a 
great deal. He conversed much about them. He 
prayed long and earnestly by himself. The by-standers 
knelt and prayed with him. 

The end was at hand. Dr. Peucer asked him 
whether he desired anything. Melanchthon replied, 
“Nothing but heaven. Let me rest and pray. My 
end is near.” At seven o’clock in the evening of 
April 19, 1560, he gently fell asleep in the Lord. He 
reached the age of sixty-three years. 

Great was the mourning in Wittenberg and far be- 
yond it, when his death became known. The funeral 
was held on April 21st. In a double coffin of pewter 
and wood, he was carried by the professors to the 
parish church. A long funeral procession followed. 
Paul Eber delivered a sermon on 1 Thess. 4. Then 
the funeral proceeded to the Electoral church, where 
his body was deposited in its last resting place, beside 


262 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


the body of Luther. A metal plate marks his tomb; 
and to the left of the altar, on the wall, is a tablet 


MELANCHTHON’S Toms. 


which, in the words of his friend Camerarius, tells ot 
the merit and worth of this great reformer, eminent 
teacher, and truly remarkable man of God. 


HIS CHARACTER AND SERVICES. 263 


CHAPTER XiXv L 
HIS CHARACTER AND SERVICES. 


HE hostility which existed toward Melanchthon 
during the last years of his life continued 
6 after his death. His valuable services in the 
cause of the Reformation were forgotten by all but his 
immediate followers; while his concessions to the Ro- 
man Catholics, his unionizing efforts, and his diver- 
gence from strict orthodoxy, were remembered against 
him. Early in the seventeenth century the feeling 
against him was still so strong that, in a public dis- 
eussion at Wittenberg, the Lutheran theologian 
Leonhard Hutter became so enraged when Melanch- 
thon was quoted as an authority, that he violently tore 
down and trampled under foot a picture of Melanch- 
thon which hung on the wall. For nearly two hun- 
dred years after his death there were few who ven- 
tured to lift their voices in his favor, to point out the 
distinguished services which he rendered to the cause 
of the truth, or to accord to him the honor to which he 
was justly entitled. Then a re-action set in, and public 
opinion, like the pendulum, swung from one extreme 
tothe other. He was now exalted even above Luther, 
and represented as the chief reformer of the sixteenth 
century. 
Melanchthon had an important place to fill in the 
Reformation, but it was not as chief reformer. The 
Reformation would have proved a failure, if its direc- 


264 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


tion had depended principally upon him. He lacked 
the heroic, resolute and steadfast character which was 
requisite in one who should begin and carry out, in the 
face of an opposing world, so mighty a spiritual revo- 
lution. But while he lacked the qualities necessary to 
make him an independent reformer, he possessed in an 
eminent degree the very talents which were needed to 
make him an invaluable assistant to Luther. A wise 
and beneficent Providence decreed that these two, the 
one warlike, aggressive, bold, the other peaceful, cau- 
tious, apprehensive, should lJabor side by side for the 
same great cause; and that, linked together by the 
same devotion to God and the truth, they should sup- 
plement one another’s work by the very diversity of 
their talents and temperaments. 

The brilliant intellectual gifts of Melanchthon elic- 
ited the unqualified admiration of Luther, Erasmus, 
and in fact of all his contemporaries. Endowed by 
nature with an extraordinary memory, and possessed 
of unwearied industry in the pursuit of knowledge, he 
became in almost every branch of learning the peer 
and frequently the superior of those who made these 
branches a special study. Equally remarkable was the 
readiness with which he employed his _ extensive 
acquirements. Examples, analogies, quotations, seemed 
to be at his finger’s ends. His was not, however, a 
creative mind. His mental habit was dialectic and 
discursive. His strength lay notin ability to create a 
great and comprehensive system of, doctrines, but in 
the power to develop, expand, clear up, define, and de- 
fend evangelical truth. The old comparison, that Lu- 
ther found the deep-lying veins of ore and brought the 


HIS CHARACTER AND SERVICES. 265 


precious metal to light, while Melanchthon coined it 
and set it to circulating, contains much of truth. The 
doctrines which Luther drew from the Holy Scriptures, 
Melanchthon elaborated, put in pleasing form, and 
disseminated. It was particularly through his efforts 
that the Gospel found acceptance among the princes, 
nobility and learned men of the day. He was gifted 
with rare powers of lucid expression, and wrote a 
beautiful style. On this account he became the scribe 
of the Reformation. He not only wrote those two 
greatest confessions of Protestantism, The Augsburg 
Confession and The Apology, but whenever the Wit- 
tenberg theologians were called upon for an opinion, 
it was almost invariably Melanchthon upon whom the 
task of preparing it devolved. 

Spiritually Melanchthon was marked by a deep, 
sincere piety. His personal life was pure; and in all 
his public activity he was guided by a desire to pro- 
mote the kingdom of God. He wrote to Camerarius, 
that his own spiritual improvement was the chief rea- 
son why he devoted himself to the study of theology. 
He was profoundly conscious of his dependence on 
God. At the beginning of every task he prayed: 
“Lord, help, and be merciful unto us.” In times of 
emergency and danger he comforted himself with the 
passage, ‘In Him we live and move and have our be- 
ing.” When he entered his lecture room, it was with 
the thought that this was the temple in which he was 
to glorify God. He aimed to elevate and improve his 
hearers, morally and spiritually. He lacked, indeed, 
Luther’s sublime confidence in God’s care for the 
Church; but it was because he feared that he might 


266 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


omit something which God, in His plans for the good 
of the Church, desired to have him do. 

In disposition Melanchthon was mild and concilia- 
ting. The public documents and opinions prepared by 
him are characterized no less by extreme moderation, 
than by clearness in the presentation of the truth. 
This fact secured for the Gospel a favorable hearing 
from many who felt themselves repelled by the brusque 
and vehement manner of Luther. But his moderation 
was carried to excess. In the earlier stages of the 
Reformation it served, indeed, a useful purpose. It 
helped to keep that movement within proper and le- 
gitimate bounds, and won to the cause of the truth 
many who would not: otherwise have been gained. 
But in later years it involved the Reformation in seri- 
ous difficulties.. For fear that he might say too much, 
he often omitted to say what needed to be said; for 
dread lest others might not be able to subscribe his 
formulas, he made them too wide and ambiguous; for 
apprehension lest he should insist on what was not 
after all essential, he surrendered what dared not 
safely be yielded, and thus jeopardized the Church. 

‘This conduct was in a large measure due to his 
temperament. He was by nature averse to extremes. 
But he was greatly influenced also by his conscien- 
tiousness. In the public negotiations in which he 
took so prominent a part, he was almost overwhelmed 
by a sense of the responsibility which rested upon him. 
He would gladly have escaped from these negotia- 
tions. He would much rather have remained in his 
study and lecture-room. But Luther was under the 
imperial ban and dared not appear publicly outside of 


HIS CHARACTER AND SERVICES. 267 


the elector of Saxony’s dominions. Melanchthon 
found himself, therefore, contrary to his own inclina- 
tions, obliged to become the representative of the 
Lutherans in diets and colloquies. _No man could 
have endeavored more scrupulously than he to fulfill 
the difficult task imposed upon him. It is true, he 
over-estimated the value of peace, feared too much the 
probable consequences of war, and made concessions 
which he never should have made. But he made 
these concessions because he believed, that a ruinous 
war would follow if he did not do so, and that the re- 
sponsibility for it would rest upon him. His fears 
were not for his own person, but for the Gospel and 
the general welfare. Anxiety to save the truth from 
suppression marred his judgment as to what might be 
conceded with impunity; but he never surrendered 
anything which appeared to him essential to the 
Church. That he yielded in the Leipzig Interim, he 
himself confessed was an error. He thought that a 
minor servitude would be better than a disruption of 
the churches, and that an outward conformity to 
Roman Catholic usages and ceremonies would not in- 
terfere with the true doctrine, if the meaning of those 
usages were properly explained to the people. He 
should have taken an uncompromising stand for the 
truth, and entrusted the consequences to God. Yet 
he doubtless endeavored to fulfill what he regarded as 
his duty in those trying times. 

With all his goodness of heart and sincerity of pur- 
pose, it is undeniable that, by his vacillating conduct 
and ambiguous phraseology, Melanchthon uninten- 
tionally gave occasion for many of the distractions 


* 


268 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


which rent the Church after Luther’s death. He meant 
to do what lay in his power to allay controversy and 
restore peace. But the very means which he used 
served only to make matters worse. The alterations 
which he so frequently made in his own works and 
the public confessions of the Church, whether for the 
sake of refining his style or of bringing about a union 
of Lutherans and Reformed, together with the uncer- 
tainty which existed with regard to his private views 
on some of the most important doctrines of the Church, 
involved the Lutheran Reformation in difficulties which 
filled its enemies with delight, but its friends with 
grief and dismay. In the controversies which raged 
for twenty years after his death, many whose teaching 
he would by no means have sanctioned took shelter 
behind his name, because his writings could be inter- 
preted in a double sense and construed as approving 
of error. He was attacked in his last years with un- 
necessary bitterness and rancor; but he himself had 
given occasion for the attacks by the diversity of the 
statements and the ambiguity of the formulas which 
he had published, and which the strict Lutherans in 
their zeal for the truth felt obliged to assail. Had he 
taken a firm stand, instead of changing his writings 
whenever a delusive hope of an agreement with the 
Roman Catholics or of a union with the Reformed 
presented itself, he would have saved himself and the 
Church much trouble and vexation. 

Melanchthon owed his spiritual enlightenment to 
Luther. In this respect he shares in the debt which, 
under God, we all owe to the intrepid monk of Witten- 
berg. Without Luther “he might have become or 


HIS CHARACTER AND SERVICES. 269 


remained a second Erasmus,” with the same elegant 
culture and esthetic taste, though a deeper piety and 
profounder earnestness of purpose. But having come 
within the circle of Luther’s influence, he zealously 
espoused the cause of the truth and lent his powerful 
aid to its dissemination. For a long time his doctrinal 
views coincided fully with those of Luther. But 
during the latter years of Luther’s life, owing to Me- 
lanchthon’s extreme reverence for the authority of the 
Church Fathers and the ethical standpoint from which 
he viewed theology, a divergence of teaching seemed 
imminent. The influence of Luther’s strong person- 
ality prevented such a crisis as long as he lived; but 
it came after Luther’s death. 

The ethical standpoint from which Melanchthon sur- 
veyed theology exerted a strong influence upon his 
views. While he recognized the doctrine of justifica- 
tion by faith as the heart and core of the Gospel, he 
desired to insist upon the necessity of good works, and 
employed on that subject the formula to which so much 
objection was raised, ‘Good works are necessary to 
salvation.” While he believed in the real presence in 
the Lord’s Supper, he emphasized, in his treatment of 
the Sacrament, the effect which the use of it has upon 
the communicant, rather than the manner of Christ’s 
presence. In the matter of conversion, he was anxious 
to lay stress upon human responsibility for remaining 
in an unconverted state. But instead of basing this 
responsibility upon the ability of man to resist God’s 
grace after the Holy Spirit has given him power to 
accept it, he affirmed, contrary to his own earlier 
teaching, that man has the “ability to apply himself 


270 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


to grace,” that is, has power of his own accord to em- 
brace the proftered salvation. 

Because of the difficulties which became prominent 
in the later years of Melanchthon’s life, it has been 
argued that Luther made a mistake in the year 1540, 
when by his prayer he rescued Melanchthon from the 
jaws of death in which he apparently lay; that God 
had then proposed, for Melanchthon’s own good and 
that of the Church, to remove him from this world; 
but that He was prevented from carrying out His gra- 
cious design by Luther’s vehement insistance on the 
absolute fulfilment ot God’s promise to hear our 
prayers. Whether Luther erred or not, this much is 
certain: if Melanchthon had then died, his fame would 
have remained comparatively free from the blot which 
his vacillating conduct made upon it, and the Church 
have been spared the necessity of openly antagonizing 
so gifted and distinguished a servant of the Gospel. 

Still, Melanchthon’s weaknesses and faults ought 
not to blind us to his virtues. The greatest of God’s 
servants have not been without their failings. Lament 
as we will Melanchthon’s shortcomings, we must yet 
honor him for his merits. Nearly every branch of 
study owes something to his mind and pen. The 
cause of education feels his impress to this day. Some 
of the very text-books which he wrote were in use for 
almost two hundred years. It was he who firmly es- 
tablished the study of the classics as the foundation of 
a truly liberal culture. The correctness of his judg- 
ment in this respect is attested by the fact, that the 
study of the classics still remains to a large extent the 
basis of higher education. In the organization of new 


HIS CHARACTER AND SERVICES. Ara 


and the improvement of existing schools, in the re- 
organization of many universities, and in the instruc- 
tion which he imparted as professor at Wittenberg, he 
rendered invaluable services. He did much to pro- 
mote the recognition of the close relation between 
Church and school, and the necessity of the one for 
the prosperity of the other. He made learning the 
handmaid of religion. He dedicated his own bril- 
lant talents to the service of the truth as it is in 
Jesus, and labored to instill a like spirit into others. 
He gave to the world, in his Loci Communes, the 
first Protestant system of doctrine—an exhibition of 
the truth so able and clear, that Luther declared it 
worthy of canonicity and immortality. He wrote 
The Augsburg Confession and The Apology, which, 
for plain, powerful, dispassionate presentation of the 
truth, have no equal in the world. He prepared com- 
mentaries and explanations of nearly all the books of 
the Bible, and delivered lectures upon the teachings 
of the Scriptures at a time when the evangelical seed 
which he sowed could not but bear a rich and bounti- 
ful harvest. 

Aside from his excessive moderation and too great 
love of peace, the character of Melanchthon is one of 
the most lovely and amiable which history affords. 
Possessed of vast learning which he dedicated to the 
service of God; conscientious to an extraordinary de- 
gree; unallured from the path of duty by the prospect 
of wealth or emolument; humble in spite of his great 
attainments; kind-hearted, obliging and benevolent ; 
sincere and willing to impute the same sincerity to 
others; pious in heart and pure in life—there are few 


272 LIFE OF MELANCHTHON. 


natures which appeal more strongly to those who 
understand him, than the gentle, mild, and peace-loy- 
ing Melanchthon. May he ever be held in grateful 
remembrance. — 


GAYLORD 


DATE DUE 


ali hee 
4 -B 39 
MAR 0 6 2999 


PRINTED IN U.S.A. 


Graduate Theological Union Library 
2400 Ridge Road 
Berkley, CA 94709 


G 
, Joseph/Life of Philip Melanchthon 


“iar 


3 2400 00029 622 


