
About the Pastors' Academy - London Seminary
 
Skip to content
 
The Pastoral Training Course
 
Pastors' Academy
Menu
Close
About the Pastors’ Academy
Pastors' 
Academy
 
Ways to Study
 
Events
 
Pastoral Support
 
Blog
 
Stand 
Stronger
 
Led by Dr Garry Williams, the Pastors’ Academy at London Seminary exists to bring advanced theological study and pastoral care to ministry life.
We offer options for serious study that can enrich your ministry, including study days, a Master of Theology degree, and tailor-made preaching and study projects.
We can also provide you with one-to-one pastoral support, helping you to stand stronger in the long term.
See the pages below for more information.
 
 
Lecturers
 
Ways to Study
 
Upcoming Events
 
Pastoral Support
 
Resources
 
Contact
 
Support
"For accessibility and cost, I don't know anything that comes close to what the Pastors' Academy offers."
Greg Willson
Redeemer Church, Manchester
"I have never found it easy to carve out the time from a busy ministry for further theological study, but studying through the Pastors' Academy has been a real blessing. The combination of great lectures, stimulating reading and the capacity to focus on study areas of my choice has been energizing for me and has benefited the church family."
Matt Fuller
Christ Church, Mayfair
Stay Up to Date
 
Sign up to the Pastors’ Academy mailing list to receive an email every few months from director Garry Williams with upcoming events and courses to help you continue growing theologically and pastorally.
 
Subscribe
							Dr Garry Williams						
Director of the Pastors' Academy
We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. 
Read More
Cookie Settings
Accept All
Manage consent
Close
Privacy Overview
 
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience.
 
								Necessary							
Necessary
Always Enabled
									Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.
Cookie
Duration
Description
cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional
11 months
The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-others
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other.
cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance".
viewed_cookie_policy
11 months
The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.
 
								Functional							
Functional
									Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
								
								Performance							
Performance
									Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
								
								Analytics							
Analytics
									Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
								
								Advertisement							
Advertisement
									Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
								
								Others							
Others
									Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
								
SAVE & ACCEPT
 
