AN  ENQUIRY  INTO 
THE  OBLIGATIONS  OF  CHRISTIANS 

TO  USE  MEANS  FOR  THE 
CONVERSION  OF  THE  HEATHENS 

by 
William  Carey 


New  facsimile  edition 

with  an  introduction  by 

Ernest  A.  Payne 


London 
The  Carey  Kingsgate  Press  Limited 


The  Carey  Kingsgate  Press  Limited 

6  Southampton  Row, 

London,  W.C.i. 


First  published  1792 

Reprinted  1818 
Reproduced  in  facsimile  1892 
10/34 

»>  »  »  l^JT 

New   facsimile  edition 
with  Introduction  1961 


N.  L.  &  Co.  Ltd. 


Carey's  Enquiry 


Introduction 


BY  DR.  ERNEST  A.  PAYNE,  M.A. 
President  of  the  Baptist  Historical  Society 


The  work  which  is  here  reproduced  first  ap 
peared  as  an  unpretentious  pamphlet  in  the 
spring  of  1792.  It  was  printed  in  Leicester,  and 
was  offered  for  sale  there  by  various  booksellers, 
and  in  three  shops  in  London  and  one  in 
Sheffield.  There  are  reasons  for  thinking  that 
it  had  no  very  large  sale,  and  it  rarely,  if  ever, 
finds  notice  in  literary  histories;  yet  it  has  been 
republished  at  least  four  times  since  its  first 
appearance.  The  modern  era  of  the  missionary 
expansion  of  the  Christian  Church  may  con 
veniently  be  dated  from  1792  and  this  pamphlet 
sets  out  the  pleas  of  one  of  those  chiefly  re 
sponsible  for  the  new  movement.  The  publication 
of  Carey's  Enquiry  into  the  Obligations  of 
Christians  to  use  means  for  the  Conversion  of  the 
Heathens  may  rightly  be  regarded  as  a  landmark 
in  Christian  history. 

Shortly  after  its  publication  Carey  preached 
his  famous  sermon  with  its  two  heads,  "Expect 
great  things  .  .  .  Attempt  great  things' '.  Less 
than  five  months  later  the  Baptist  Missionary 


Society  was  formed,  followed  in  quick  suc 
cession  by  the  London  Missionary  Society,  the 
Church  Missionary  Society,  the  Religious  Tract 
Society,  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society — 
to  name  but  a  few  of  the  organizations  which 
became  channels  for  a  rising  tide  of  evangelical 
zeal.  The  last  decade  of  the  eighteenth  century 
was  notable  in  general  history  for  the  Revolu 
tionary  Terror  in  France  and  the  emergence  to 
power  of  Napoleon.  The  literary  historian  re 
calls  the  work  of  the  Lake  Poets  and  their  circle, 
and  that  of  Robert  Burns  and  William  Blake. 
Those  interested  in  the  emancipation  of  the 
human  spirit  think  of  the  writings  of  Tom 
Paine,  William  Godwin  and  Mary  Wollstone- 
craft.  These  were  Carey's  contemporaries  and 
by  comparison  he  seems  at  first  sight  "a  poor 
journeyman  shoemaker"  in  more  senses  than 
one.  He  had  few  literary  graces.  He  shunned 
the  limelight.  He  belonged  to  one  of  the  less 
prosperous  Dissenting  bodies.  Nor  was  his  a 
picturesque  personality  in  the  sense  in  which 
such  a  description  is  usually  applied.  Yet  when 
he  died  forty  years  later,  a  revolution  in  the 
position  and  outlook  of  the  Christian  Church 
had  taken  place,  and  by  common  consent  he  had 
himself  had  an  outstanding  part  in  it. 

Recognition  of  Carey's  greatness  has  grown 
with  the  years.  We  marvel  at  his  daring  and 
fortitude,  at  the  magnitude  of  his  work  as  a 
translator  of  the  Scriptures  and  as  an  educator, 
at  the  far-sightedness  of  his  missionary  planning, 
at  his  ecumenical  spirit.  Not  a  little  of  the  secret 
of  what  he  achieved  and  what  he  was  may  be 
found  in  the  pages  of  the  Enquiry. 


n 


II 

Contemporary  records  and  traditions  give  us 
few  detailed  hints  of  the  circumstances  in  which 
the  pamphlet  was  written.  It  was  begun  while 
Carey  was  pastor  of  the  little  Baptist  church  at 
Moulton  in  Northamptonshire,  a  youthful  pastor 
who  supplemented  his  very  slender  stipend  by 
keeping  a  school  and  who  surely  needed  to  do 
so,  for  he  had  a  wife  and  small  family  to  support. 
He  had  undertaken  the  task  of  setting  down  his 
views  in  writing  only  reluctantly,  conscious  of 
his  limitations;  but  his  deep  concern  for  the 
cause  of  Christ  in  the  far  corners  of  the  earth 
made  him  brave,  particularly  when  he  realized 
that  even  the  more  sympathetic  and  understand 
ing  of  his  ministerial  neighbours  would  require 
a  good  deal  of  convincing  that  it  was  possible  or 
right  for  them  to  do  anything  themselves  about 
the  condition  of  those  overseas,  save  perhaps 
pray  for  them.  "Sit  down,  young  man;  when 
God  wants  to  convert  the  heathen,  He'll  do  it 
without  your  help  or  mine".  So  the  Calvinism 
of  the  eighteenth  century  had  spoken  through 
the  lips  of  gruff  John  Collett  Ryland,  of  Nor 
thampton,  when  Carey  had  raised  the  matter  at  a 
Ministers'  Fraternal  as  early  as  September  1785. 

The  final  decision  to  present  his  case  in  print 
appears  to  have  come  some  three  years  later 
while  Carey  was  on  a  visit  to  Birmingham.  He 
was  twenty-seven  years  of  age  at  the  time  and 
was  trying  to  gather  funds  for  the  enlargement 
of  the  Moulton  chapel.  In  Birmingham  he  met 
Thomas  Potts,  a  business  man  only  a  few  years 
his  senior,  who  had  been  in  the  American 


in 


Colonies  and  had  there  had  contact  with  both 
Red  Indians  and  Negroes.  Potts  promised  Carey 
ten  pounds  for  the  printing  of  a  pamphlet  setting 
out  his  views  as  to  what  ought  to  be  done  for 
the  heathen. 

In  the  summer  of  1789  Carey  moved  to 
Leicester  to  be  pastor  of  the  Baptist  church 
in  Harvey  Lane.  There,  amid  increasing  calls 
and  responsibilities,  but  with  access  to  more 
books  and  to  a  wider  circle  of  stimulating 
friends,  he  slowly  shaped  the  material  for  his 
his  booklet.  It  was  ready  in  draft  by  May,  1791, 
when  his  formal  induction  to  the  Leicester 
pastorate  took  place.  It  was  customary  among 
Baptists  in  those  days  for  ordination  and  induc 
tion  services  to  be  held  a  year  or  so  after  a  man's 
first  regular  preaching  to  a  congregation,  so  that 
both  sides  might  be  fully  persuaded  and  ready 
for  so  solemn  a  mutual  engagement.  At  the  close 
of  the  day  in  Leicester  Carey  read  to  a  group  of 
friends  what  he  had  written.  Some  twenty 
ministers  from  Baptist  churches  of  Leicester 
shire  and  neighbouring  counties  had  been 
present  at  the  services.  We  may  assume  that  it 
was  those  who  lived  at  a  distance  who  remained 
for  the  night  and  first  learned  how  Carey  was 
setting  forth  his  argument.  His  closest  friends 
were  certainly  there — John  Ryland,  son  and 
successor  of  J.  C.  Ryland,  Andrew  Fuller,  of 
Kettering,  and  John  Sutcliff,  of  Olney — and 
they  no  doubt  gave  him  the  benefit  of  their 
criticism.  Samuel  Pearce,  of  Birmingham,  had 
been  preaching  the  evening  sermon  and  it  was  at 
his  request  that  the  manuscript  was  read ;  perhaps 
Thomas  Potts  had  urged  him  to  ask  about  it. 


IV 


During  the  following  months  Carey  revised 
and  perhaps  expanded  what  he  had  written. 
Sometime  during  the  winter  of  1791-2  it  was 
taken  to  a  certain  Ann  Ireland,  printer  and 
bookseller  in  Leicester,  and  the  following  spring 
it  made  its  modest  appearance. 


Ill 


An  advertisement  in  the  Leicester  Herald  for 
Saturday,  12  May,  1792,  read  as  follows: 

This  day  is  published,  Price  is.  6d. 

An  Enquiry  into  the  Obligations  of  Christians 

to  use  means  for  the 

Conversion  of  the  Heathens 

in  which  the  religious  state  of  the  world,  the 

success  of  former  undertakings  and  the 

practicability  of  further  undertakings 

for  that  Purpose  are  considered 

By  William  Carey 

Leicester :  Printed  and  sold  by  A.  Ireland, 
and  the  other  booksellers:  sold  also  by 
J.  Johnson  in  St.  Paul's  Churchyard;  Dilly 
in  the  Poultry;  Knott,  Lombard  Street, 
London,  and  Smith,  Sheffield. 

The  circle  of  printers  and  booksellers  to 
which  this  introduces  us  was  one  of  considerable 
interest.  Richard  Phillips,  the  publisher  of  the 
Leicester  Herald,  was  prosecuted  eight  months 
later  at  the  instigation  of  the  Government  for 
circulating  Tom  Paine's  Rights  of  Man.  The 
other  Leicester  paper,  The  Chronicle,  was  printed 


by  John  Ireland,  probably  the  husband  of  Ann. 
Started  in  1791,  this  paper  was  discontinued  in 
1793,  when  both  editor  and  publisher  were 
threatened  with  prosecution.  The  Irelands  were 
well-known  in  Leicester.  John,  who  died  in  1810 
at  the  age  of  sixty-three,  is  described  by  John 
Nichols  as  "strictly  independent  in  his  prin 
ciples,  of  great  probity  and  much  esteemed". 
Ann  was  a  sister  of  the  Rev.  William  Bickerstaffe 
(d.  1789),  for  forty-eight  years  usher  in  the 
Free  Grammar  School.  Of  Bickerstaffe  a  monu 
ment  in  St.  Mary's  churchyard  says : 

"No  noisy  vain  applause,  no  dazzling  blaze 
Mark'd  the  progression  of  his  quiet  days : 
Yet  let  this  monumental  tablet  tell 
That  praise,  which  living  he  deserv'd  so  well : 
His  joys  were,  Nature's  sorrows  to  relieve; 
He  gave  the  needy  all  he  had  to  give. 
To  classic  lore  he  lead  the  mind  of  youth, 
And  taught  to  all  the  heavenly  paths  of  truth* '. 

Since  the  group  in  Leicester,  who  helped  to 
launch  Carey's  pamphlet,  were  of  radical 
political  and  religious  sympathies,  it  is  not 
surprising  to  discover  the  same  to  be  true  of  the 
London  booksellers  who  handled  it.  Knott,  of 
Lombard  Street,  published  a  number  of  tracts 
against  slavery,  including  in  1791  a  halfpenny 
one  entitled  An  Address  to  the  People  of  Great 
Britain  on  the  Propriety  of  Abstaining  from  West 
India  Sugar  and  Rum,  which  supported  what 
Carey  himself  wrote  in  the  penultimate  para- 

fraph  of  the  Enquiry.  The  other  two  booksellers, 
ohnson    and    Dilly,    were    both    well-known 
figures  in  the  literary  life  of  London.  Both  were 


VI 


Nonconformists  by  upbringing  and  association. 

Joseph  Johnson,  the  son  of  a  north  of  England 
Baptist  farmer,  had  come  to  London  as  a  boy  of 
fourteen  and  from  the  humblest  beginnings 
made  his  way  to  the  top  of  the  book-trade.  It 
was  Johnson  who  published  the  first  volume 
of  Cowper's  poems  in  1782  and  who  held  the 
copyright  in  them.  Scientific  works  interested 
him  and  he  was  of  strongly  radical  sympathies 
in  politics.  For  some  years  Mary  Wollstone- 
craft  was  employed  by  him  as  a  translator.  Her 
pamphlet,  The  Vindication  of  the  Rights  of 
Women,  was  published  by  Johnson  the  year 
Carey's  Enquiry  appeared.  Only  a  few  months 
before  he  had  issued  a  poem  on  the  French 
Revolution  by  William  Blake. 

A  week  or  so  before  the  formation  of  the 
Baptist  Missionary  Society  on  2  October,  1792, 
a  famous  incident  occured  in  Johnson's  hospit 
able  bachelor  establishment  at  No.  72  St.  Paul's 
Churchyard.  Tom  Paine  and  William  Blake  had 
been  dining  there.  The  former's  Rights  of  Man 
had  just  appeared.  Moved  as  it  seemed  by  some 
intuition  Blake  said  to  Paine:  "You  must  not  go 
home,  or  you  are  a  dead  man,"  and  persuaded 
him  to  start  at  once  for  Dover  and  Paris.  As  it 
transpired,  Paine  got  away  only  just  in  time,  for 
the  Government  had  decided  to  prosecute  him. 
As  he  slipped  out  of  Johnson's  shop,  did  his  eye 
light,  perchance,  on  Carey's  Enquiry? 

At  Billy's,  No.  22,  The  Poultry,  Carey's 
booklet  had  more  fashionable  companions. 
Edward  and  Charles  Dilly  had  developed  a 
large  American  export  trade,  specializing  in 
Dissenting  theology,  but  they  were  also  in  touch 


vn 


with  the  great  Samuel  Johnson.  At  their  excel 
lent  dinners,  says  a  contemporary  account, 
"Johnson  and  Wilkes  forgot  the  animosities  of 
Whig  and  Tory.  Here  High  Church  Divines 
and  Pillars  of  the  Meeting-house  relinquished 
their  polemicks  and  enjoyed  uninterrupted 
conviviality".  Edward  Dilly  was  so  loquacious 
that  it  was  said  he  almost  literally  talked  himself 
to  death.  Charles  Dilly  carried  on  the  business 
and  when  too  busy  to  preside  over  the  firm's 
dinners,  left  the  head  of  the  table  to  James 
Boswell,  whose  famous  Life  of  Johnson  he 
published  a  few  months  before  the  Enquiry 
reached  his  shop  from  Leicester. 

It  is  one  thing  to  be  on  a  counter  with 
distinguished  neighbours;  it  is  another  to  be 
bought  and  read.  Whatever  may  have  happened 
to  Carey's  pamphlet  in  Leicester,  there  can  have 
been  few  to  talk  it  up  in  London.  But  its 
intrinsic  quality  and  enduring  interest  are  not 
to  be  measured  by  the  number  of  copies  of  the 
first  edition  which  may  have  been  sold. 


IV 

He  who  reads  the  Enquiry  today  is  struck, 
first  of  all,  by  its  sober  matter-of-factness  and 
its  modernity.  More  than  a  fourth  of  the  pages 
are  taken  up  with  schedules  detailing  the  differ 
ent  countries  of  the  world,  their  length  and 
breadth,  the  number  of  their  inhabitants  and 
the  religions  there  represented.  Throughout 
there  is  a  clear  division  into  sections  and  the 
points  made  are  numbered.  The  contents  are 


Vlll 


brief,  logical,  precise,  more  like  a  Blue  book  or 
a  committee's  report  than  a  prophetic  call  to 
the  Church  of  Christ.  There  is  here  no  appeal 
to  eloquence  or  sentiment,  no  elaborate  build 
ing  up  of  proof-texts  from  the  Bible,  no  involved 
theological  argument,  but  a  careful  setting  down 
of  facts.  The  very  title  is  characteristic  of  the 
author. 

After  a  brief  introduction  saying  that  those 
who  use  the  Lord's  Prayer  ought  to  inform 
themselves  as  to  the  religious  state  of  the  world, 
the  book  is  divided  into  five  sections.  The  first 
is  "an  enquiry  whether  the  Commission  given  by 
our  Lord  to  his  Disciples  be  not  still  binding 
on  us".  Was  the  command  to  teach  all  nations 
intended  only  for  the  Apostles?  If  not,  then  only 
the  impossibility  of  fulfilling  it  would  exempt 
us  from  doing  our  part.  But  that  it  is  not  im 
possible  is  shown  by  what  has  been  done  by 
Jesuits  and  Moravians,  and  also  by  English 
traders.  Nor  does  it  exempt  us  that  there  are 
still  many  in  this  land  "as  ignorant  as  the  South- 
sea  savages".  Section  II  consists  of  "a  short 
Review  of  former  Undertakings  for  the  Con 
version  of  the  Heathen",  beginning  with  Pente 
cost  and  giving  in  a  dozen  pages  an  outline  of 
the  progress  recorded  in  Acts,  then  a  few 
references  to  the  expansion  of  the  Church  in 
the  early  centuries  and  in  the  Middle  Ages,  and 
on  to  the  sporadic  seventeenth  and  eighteenth 
century  efforts  among  the  Indians  of  America 
and  those  in  India  and  the  East  Indies. 

The  "Survey  of  the  present  State  of  the 
World",  which  forms  Section  III,  has  been 
referred  to  already.  After  the  statistical  tables, 


IX 


into  which  must  have  gone  long  hours  of  work 
and  much  searching,  there  come  a  few  candid 
general  remarks.  It  would  appear,  says  Carey, 
that  of  the  730,000,000  of  the  world's  inhabi 
tants,  420,000,000  are  still  "in  pagan  darkness' ' 
and  a  further  130,000,000  are  "the  followers  of 
Mahomet".  In  the  enumeration  of  the  Christ 
ians,  "Catholics"  or  "Papists"  are  clearly  dis 
tinguished  from  Protestants  and  from  those  of 
the  Greek  and  Armenian  Churches;  together 
they  total  but  174,000,000.  The  most  barbarous 
of  peoples  "appear  to  be  as  capable  of  know 
ledge  as  we  are".  Where  there  is  a  higher 
civilization,  there  is  often  equal  ignorance  of 
the  Gospel,  and  "it  is  a  melancholy  fact  that 
the  vices  of  Europeans  have  been  communicated 
wherever  they  themselves  have  been".  Muslims 
clearly  need  special  attention.  Even  among 
those  who  bear  the  Christian  name,  particularly 
those  of  the  Eastern  and  Roman  Churches, 
there  is  much  ignorance  and  even  vice.  "Nor 
do  the  bulk  of  the  church  of  England  much 
exceed  them,  either  in  knowledge  or  holiness; 
and  many  errors  and  much  looseness  of  conduct 
are  to  be  found  amongst  dissenters  of  all 
denominations". 

Section  IV  urges  "the  Practicability  of  some 
thing  being  done,  more  than  what  is  done,  for 
the  Conversion  of  the  Heathen".  Carey  replies 
to  objections  that  these  heathen  peoples  live  too 
far  away  and  are  too  uncivilized  in  their  ways  of 
life;  that  missionaries  could  only  go  to  them  at 
the  risk  of  their  lives  and  might  be  unable  to 
obtain  the  necessaries  of  life  (there  is  a  fine 
passage  at  this  point  on  the  Christian  minister 


as  the  Servant  of  God) ;  that  language  difficulties 
would  be  insuperable.  These  are  all  shown  to 
be  excuses,  not  valid  objections. 

Finally,  Section  V  indicates  the  immediate 
practical  steps  which  might  be  taken:  first, 
fervent  and  united  prayer,  then  the  energetic 
use  of  the  new  opportunities  provided  by  the 
opening  up  of  the  world  to  trade  and  the  organ 
ization  of  a  society  with  a  committee  charged 
to  make  a  beginning  with  the  sending  out  of 
missionaries.  Carey  appeals  to  Christians  of  all 
denominations,  but  drives  home  his  challenge 
pointedly  to  his  own  friends: 

"In  the  present  divided  state  of  Christ 
endom,  it  would  be  more  likely  for  good 
to  be  done  by  each  denomination  engag 
ing  separately  in  the  work,  than  if  they 
were  to  embark  on  it  conjointly". 

The  expenses  involved  would  easily  be  met, 
in  Carey's  opinion,  by  the  regular  tithing  of 
their  incomes  by  Christian  people,  even  though 
many  of  the  subscriptions  could  be  but  a  penny 
a  week.  Indeed,  tithing  in  the  Biblical  manner 
and  as  practised  by  many  seventeenth  century 
Puritans  would  also  provide  much  needed  funds 
for  the  evangelization  of  the  villages  of  England. 
"We  have  only  to  keep  the  end  in  view,  and 
have  our  hearts  thoroughly  engaged  in  the 
pursuit  of  it,  and  means  will  not  be  very 
difficult". 

"Surely",  Carey  concludes,  "it  is  worth  while 
to  lay  ourselves  out  with  all  our  might,  in 
promoting  the  cause  and  kingdom  of  Christ". 


XI 


Even  so  brief  an  outline  of  its  contents  shows 
that  the  Enquiry  deals  with  questions  of 
missionary  apologetic,  strategy  and  support 
which  are  still  surprisingly  relevant.  Dr.  George 
Smith,  writing  in  1885,  called  it  "the  first  and 
still  the  greatest  missionary  treatise  in  the 
English  language".  It  has  not  yet  been  surpassed 
in  simplicity  or  cogency. 

Where  did  Carey  get  the  materials  for  it? 
Primarily,  of  course,  from  his  own  thinking  and 
praying  about  its  central  theme,  and  from  a 
close  study  of  the  Bible.  He  was  also  helped  by 
the  reading  of  Captain  Cook's  Voyages  (the 
account  of  Cook's  final  one  to  the  Pacific 
appeared  in  1784)  and  by  the  latest  geographical 
handbooks  of  which  he  could  get  a  sight,  and 
by  a  careful  noting  (as  Mr.  Deaville  Walker 
showed  in  his  life  of  Carey)  of  the  Northampton 
Mercury.  Cowper's  lines  Pity  for  Poor  Africans 
appeared  in  the  Mercury  for  9  August,  1788, 
and  Carey  and  his  family  had  given  up  the  use 
of  West-India  sugar  long  before  Knott  published 
the  halfpenny  tract  to  which  reference  was  made 
earlier.  Jonathan  Edwards's  Humble  Attempt  to 
Promote  Explicit  Agreement  and  Visible  Union 
of  God's  People  in  Extraordinary  Prayer,  pub 
lished  in  Massachusetts  in  1747,  had  had  deep 
influence  on  the  Northamptonshire  Baptist 
churches  from  1784  onwards.  John  Sutcliff  had 
issued  an  English  edition  of  it  in  1789  and  Carey 
bears  testimony  to  the  quickened  spiritual  life 
which  was  showing  itself  as  a  result  of  special 
monthly  prayer  meetings,  though  he  expresses 


xn 


in  parenthesis  his  doubt  about  Edwards' s  inter 
pretation  of  prophecy.  Some  book  on  Church 
history  must  have  been  to  Carey's  hand,  or 
else  a  general  encyclopedia.  A  few  sentences 
from  the  earliest  publication  of  his  friend 
Andrew  Fuller  may  have  started  him  on  what 
became  the  heart  of  his  pamphlet.  "Let  the 
present  religious  state  of  the  world  be  consid 
ered",  wrote  Fuller  in  his  notes  about  prayer 
for  revival  at  the  end  of  The  Nature  and 
Importance  of  Walking  by  Faith,  a  sermon 
preached  in  June,  1784. 

"Christianity  has  not  yet  made  its  way,  even 
in  name,  over  one-fifth  part  of  the  world. 
Out  of  about  one  thousand  millions, 
who  are  supposed  to  inhabit  our  globe, 
not  above  one  hundred  and  seventy 
millions  profess  the  Christian  name;  all 
the  rest  are  heathens,  Jews,  or  Mahome- 
dans:  and,  of  those  who  do  profess  it, 
the  far  greater  part  are  either  of  the 
apostate  church  of  Rome  or  of  the 
Greek  church,  which  is  nearly  as  corrupt. 
Add  to  this,  what  great  numbers  of  real 
heathens  abound  in  Christian  lands,  and 
unbelievers  even  in  the  congregations  of 
the  faithful.  Surely  it  is  high  time  for  us 
to  awake  out  of  sleep,  and  to  send  our 
united  cries  to  heaven  in  behalf  of  our 
fellow  creatures !" 

Carey  elaborated  and  strengthened  these 
sentences  of  Fuller's,  but  in  addition  to  prayer, 
he  wanted  action. 


xin 


Neither  separately  nor  together  do  these 
suggested  sources  explain,  however,  the  simple 
sincerity  and  effectiveness  of  the  Enquiry.  The 
works  of  Jonathan  Edwards  and  Andrew  Fuller 
can  only  now  be  read  with  considerable  effort. 
The  same  is  true  of  those  of  the  contemporary 
pamphleteers  who  have  been  mentioned,  Tom 
Paine  and  Mary  Wollstonecraft.  These  writers 
all  seem  much  more  remote  from  us  than  does 
Carey. 

The  argument  in  Section  I  is,  according  to 
an  autobiographical  letter  sent  by  Carey  twenty 
years  later  to  Fuller,  a  setting  out  of  his  consid 
ered  reply  to  John  Collett  Ryland  and  those  who 
snubbed  him  when  he  raised  the  question  of 
missionary  work  at  the  Fraternal  in  September, 
1785.  In  Section  II  there  is  a  friendly  allusion 
to  the  work  for  the  Caribs  and  Negroes  of  "the 
late  Mr.  Wesley"  (who  passed  away  while  the 
Enquiry  was  being  completed) — a  reference  the 
more  welcome  because  not  all  Dissenters 
regarded  the  great  Methodist  leader  with  favour. 
Among  the  things  for  which  Carey  gives  thanks 
as  resulting  from  the  special  monthly  prayer 
meetings  it  is  somewhat  surprising  to  find  this : 
"Some  controversies  which  have  long  perplexed 
and  divided  the  church  are  more  clearly  stated 
than  ever".  This  refers,  no  doubt,  to  the 
discussions  among  Baptists  about  Calvinism  and 
to  the  current  controversies  over  Socinianism.  A 
remark  of  Gustav  Aulen  would  no  doubt  have 
met  with  Carey's  approval: 

"Theological   controversy   is   not  always 
an   unmixed   evil.    Time   and   again   a 


xiv 


pointed  formula  to  which  some  controv 
ersy  has  given  birth  has  served  as  a 
protective  covering  to  save  some  positive 
insight  into  truth  from  being  lost  and 
forgotten". 

VI 

As  has  been  already  suggested,  there  is  little 
evidence  that  the  Enquiry  was  widely  read  when 
it  first  appeared.  The  cost  of  printing  was 
covered,  largely  at  any  rate,  by  Thomas  Potts's 
provision.  The  pamphlet  was  offered  for  sale  at 
one  shilling  and  sixpence.  At  the  meeting  in 
Kettering  at  which  the  Baptist  Missionary 
Society  was  formed,  Carey  promised  all  the 
profits  to  the  new  enterprise,  but  there  appears 
to  be  no  record  of  any  sums  having  been 
received.  Indeed,  a  resolution  in  the  first  Minute 
Book  of  the  Society  suggests  that  the  business 
side  of  things  did  not  go  too  well.  At  a  committee 
meeting  in  Leicester,  on  20  March,  1793,  just 
as  Carey  was  setting  out  for  India,  it  is  recorded: 

"As  Mr.  Carey  printed  his  late  publica 
tion  with  a  view  to  subserve  the  Mission, 
and  publickly  proposed  that  the  profits 
should  be  appropriated  to  it,  and  as 
many  of  them  are  yet  unsold.  Resolved 
that  the  Society  shall  take  that  publica 
tion  upon  themselves,  and  that  Mr. 
SutclifF,  of  Olney,  be  appointed  to  trans 
act  the  business  of  it". 

When  John  Thomas,  the  eccentric  doctor 
who  became  Carey's  companion  in  India,  visited 
the  churches  on  behalf  of  the  new  mission,  he 


xv 


took  copies  with  him,  and  so  no  doubt  did 
Fuller.  But  references  to  the  Enquiry,  save  in 
biographies  of  Carey,  are  hard  to  find.  The 
striking  sentences  on  the  Christian  minister, 
alluded  to  above,  were  quoted  by  the  Anglican, 
Melville  Home,  in  the  Letters  on  Missions  which 
he  issued  in  1794,  as  well  as  by  Christopher 
Anderson  in  his  fine  memorial  sermon  for  Carey 
in  1834.  Perhaps  Carey  himself  had  the  same 
passage  in  mind  when  he  wrote  to  his  son,  Jabez, 
in  1821:  "The  character  of  a  minister  of  the 
Gospel  is  the  highest  character  on  earth.  It  is  no 
less  than  that  of  the  Ambassador  of  God  com 
missioned  to  negociate  with  sinful  men  concern 
ing  the  great  article  of  their  salvation".  George 
Burder,  of  Coventry,  in  a  publication  issued  in 
1795  announcing  the  formation  of  the  London 
Missionary  Society,  refers  to  the  Enquiry  in  the 
following  somewhat  condescending  terms: 

"We  beg  leave  to  recommend  the  perusal 
of  this  well-meant  pamphlet  to  our 
readers;  and  to  remind  them  that  it 
derives  no  small  addition  of  value  from 
this  consideration,  that  the  author  'has 
given  to  his  precepts  the  force  of  example' 
by  becoming  a  missionary  himself,  and 
is  now  a  preacher  on  the  banks  of  the 
Ganges". 

No  doubt  the  truth  is  that  Carey's  prose 
style  was  not  sufficiently  polished  or  elaborate 
for  those  whose  lives  spanned  the  gulf  between 
the  English  Augustans  and  the  Victorians,  nor 
had  it  sufficient  of  the  conventional  popular 
theology  and  piety  about  its  phrases.  Confirmation 


xvi 


of  this  view  is  to  be  found  in  the  fact  that 
when  Isaac  Mann  wrote  to  Dr.  John  Ryland  in 
1817  suggesting  a  new  edition,  the  worthy 
doctor  replied:  "I  very  much  question  whether 
it  would  be  expedient  to  reprint  Dr.  Carey's 
Pamphlet  NOW,  or  whether  it  would  add  at  all 
to  his  reputation  to  do  so".  Ryland  was  over 
ruled,  it  is  true,  but  the  1818  edition  of  the 
Enquiry  is  a  very  diminutive  paper-covered 
publication  with  the  statistical  information  set 
in  connected  form  in  smaller  type,  and  with 
three  short  appended  notes,  one  on  Carey's 
early  days,  one  on  the  translations  that  were 
being  made  at  Serampore  and  one  on  the 
number  of  adherents  of  the  chief  religions  of 
mankind.  Interest  in  the  Enquiry  was  revived 
in  1892  at  the  time  of  the  centenary  of  the 
Baptist  Missionary  Society;  and  in  1934,  for  the 
hundredth  anniversary  of  Carey's  death,  a 
facsimile  of  the  original  edition  was  produced. 

It  is  not,  however,  as  a  literary  curiosity  that 
it  deserves  attention,  nor  simply  as  a  document 
underlying  the  modern  missionary  movement. 
It  still  has  a  message.  Its  arguments  are  needed 
for  a  twentieth- century  apologetic,  but  what  it 
does  not  say  is  almost  as  important  as  what  it 
does  say.  Its  shrewd  commonsense  indicates 
the  kind  of  recruits  still  needed  for  work  abroad. 
Its  exhortation  to  missionaries  "to  encourage 
any  appearance  of  gifts  amongst  the  people  of 
their  charge"  is  not  yet  universally  heeded.  Its 
very  detachment,  under-statement  and  absence  of 
verbiage  give  it  effectiveness  today,  even  though 
its  facts  and  figures  need  bringing  up  to  date. 

The  changes  that  have  come  since  1792  are 


xvn 


set  out  exhaustively  in  the  last  four  volumes  of 
Dr.  K.  S.  Latourette's  History  of  the  Expansion 
of  Christianity.  The  population  of  the  world 
has  more  than  trebled  since  the  end  of  the 
eighteenth  century.  Carey  estimated  that  in  his 
day  less  than  one  in  four  owned  to  any  kind  of 
Christian  allegiance.  It  is  now  probably 
more  than  one  in  three  and  the  Christian  faith 
has  penetrated  into  almost  every  land  in  the 
world.  "Almost  incidentally  the  great  world- 
fellowship  has  arisen;  it  is  the  great  fact  of  our 
era,"  declared  William  Temple,  in  the  sermon 
he  preached  on  his  enthronement  as  Archbishop 
of  Canterbury  in  1942 — just  one  hundred  and 
fifty  years  after  Carey's  sermon  and  the  appear 
ance  of  the  Enquiry. 

The  full  implications  of  this  have  yet  to  be 
understood,  accepted  and  appreciated  even  by 
Christian  people.  But  here,  as  at  other  points, 
Carey  and  his  friends  were  ahead  of  their 
contemporaries,  more  open-minded  and  expect 
ant,  more  free  from  bigotry  than  many  who  have 
succeeded  them.  Writing  to  Andrew  Fuller  on 
15  May,  1806,  Carey  said: 

"The  Cape  of  Good  Hope  is  now  in  the 
hands  of  the  English ;  should  it  continue 
so,  would  it  not  be  possible  to  have  a 
general  association  of  all  denominations 
of  Christians,  from  the  four  quarters  of 
the  world,  kept  there  once  in  about  ten 
years?  I  earnestly  recommend  this  plan, 
let  the  first  meeting  be  in  the  year  1810, 
or  1812  at  furthest.  I  have  no  doubt  it 
would  be  attended  with  very  important 

xviii 


effects;  we  could  understand  one  another 
better,  and  more  entirely  enter  into  one 
another's  views  by  two  hours  conversa 
tion  than  by  two  or  three  years  epistolary 
correspondence." 

Fuller  dismissed  this  as  "one  of  Carey's 
pleasing  dreams"  and  it  had  to  wait  for  fulfil 
ment  until  the  World  Missionary  Conference 
gathered  in  Edinburgh  in  1910.  But  the  attitude 
and  spirit  shown  by  Carey's  proposal  found 
expression  in  many  of  the  actions  of  his  friends. 
A  striking  example  of  this  may  be  found  in  a 
leaflet  issued  in  1812  by  the  Bristol  Auxiliary 
Society  in  aid  of  the  Baptist  Mission.  There  are 
there  listed,  in  addition  to  the  Baptist  Missionary 
Society,  the  Society  for  the  Propagation  of 
Christian  Knowledge,  the  similar  Scottish 
society,  Moravian  Missions,  the  London  Mission 
ary  Society,  the  Church  Missionary  Society  and 
the  work  of  "Mr.  Wesley's  People"  among  the 
negroes  of  the  West  Indies,  and  it  is  said : 

"Now  we  wish  our  Collectors  not  to 
attempt  urging  any  person  to  subscribe 
to  our  Mission,  whose  connections  would 
naturally  lead  them  to  give  the  preference 
to  either  of  these  Paedo-Baptist  Socie 
ties;  whatever  is  voluntarily  offered  we 
thankfully  receive,  but  we  would  not 
indulge  for  one  moment  any  desire  to 
advance  our  own  interest  at  the  expense 
of  others.  If  we  had  richer  friends,  and 
fewer  calls  for  money  than  they,  we 
should  be  glad  to  aid  any  of  these 
excellent  Institutions". 


xix 


This  carries  the  authentic  Carey  note.  The 
continuing  value  and  appeal  of  the  Enquiry 
reside  in  its  truly  ecumenical  spirit  and  in  the 
fact  that  it  presents  in  terse  and  unadorned 
fashion  the  gist  of  the  unanswerable  argument 
that  there  still  rests  upon  Christians  the  obliga 
tion  to  use  all  the  means  at  their  disposal  for  the 
conversion  of  unbelievers,  wherever  they  may  be. 


xx 


A  N 

ENQUIRY 

INTO     THE 

OBLIGATIONS     OF     CHRISTIANS, 

TO    USE    MEANS     FOR     THE 

CONVERSION 

OF    THE 

HEATHENS. 

IN     WHICH     THE 

RELIGIOUS  STATE  OF  THE  DIFFERENT  NATIONS 
OF  THE  WORLD,  THK  SUCCESS  OF  FORMER 
UNDERTAKINGS,  AND  THE  PRACTICABILITY  OF 
FURTHER  UNDERTAKINGS,  ARE  CONSIDERED, 

BY  WILLIAM  CAREY. 


For  there  is  no  Ditk.eixe  between  the  Jew  and  the  Greek  ; 
for  the  lame  Lord  over  all,  ib  tich  ur.to  all  that  call  upon  him. 
For  whofoevtr  (hall  call  on  the  name  of  the  Loid  (hall  be  faved. 
How  then  (hall  they  call  on  him,  in  whom  they  have  not 
believed  ?  and  how  fliall  they  believe  in  him  ot  whom  they 
have  nut  heaid  ?  and  how  ihall  they  hear  without  a  Preacher? 
and  how  Ihall  they  preach  except  'they  be  fent  ? 

PAUL. 

LEICESTER: 

Printed  and  fold  by  ANN  IRELAND,  and  the  ether  Book- 
fellers  in  Lciceflcr;  J.  JOHNSON,  St.  Paul's  Churvhyard; 
T.  KNOFT,  Lombard  St.cct;  R.  DILLY,  in  the  Poultry, 
Lcmlon\  and  SMITH,  at  Sheffield. 

£i'iict  O;;e  Shilling  and  Six-pence.} 

MDCCXCII, 


INTRODUCTION. 


AS  our  bleffed  Lord  has  required  us  to  pray 
that  his  kingdom  may  come,  and  his  will  be 
done  on  earth  as  it  is  in  heaven,  it  becomes  us 
not  only  to  exprefs  our  defires  of  that  event  by 
words,  but  to  uie  every  lawful  method  to  fpread 
the  knowledge  of  his  name.  In  order  to  this,  it 
is  necdTary  that  we  fliould  become,  in  fome  men- 
fure  acquainted  with  the  religious  ilate  of  the 
world;  and  as  this  is  an  object  we  fliould  be 
prompted  to  purfue,  not  only  by  the  gofpel  of 
our  Redeemer,  but  even  by  the  feelings  of  huma 
nity,  fo  an  inclination  to  confcientious  activity 
therein  tvould  form  one  of  the  ftrongeft  proofs 
that  we  are  the  fubje&s  of  grace,  and  partakers  of 
that  fpirit  of  univerfal  benevolence  and  genuine 
philanthropy,  which  appear  fo  eminent  in  the 
charader  of  God  himfelf* 

Sin  was  introduced  amongft  the  children  of 
men  by  the  fall  of  Adam,  and  has  ever  Cnce  been 
ipreading  its  baneful  influence.  By  changing  its 

B  appearances 


(     4     ) 

appearances  to  fuit  the  circumftances  of  the  times, 
it  has  grown  up  in  ten  thoufand  forms,  and  con- 
ftantly  counteracted  the  will  and  defigns  of  God. 
One  would  have  fuppofed  that  the  remembrance 
of  the  deluge  would  have  been  tranfmitted  from 
father  to  ion,  and  have  perpetually  deterred 
mankind  from  tn<nfgre(Iing  the  will  of  their 
Maker;  but  fo  bliuded  were  they,  that  in  the 
time  of  Abraham,  grofs  wickednefs  prevailed 
wherever  colonies  were  planted,  and  the  iniquity 
of  the  Amorites  was  great,  though  not  yet  full. 
After  this,  idolatry  fpread  more  and  more,  till 
the  feven  devoted  nations  were  cut  off  with  the 
mod  Cgnal  marks  of  divine  difpleafure.  Still, 
however,  the  progrefs  of  evil  was  not  flopped, 
but  the  Ifraelites  themfelves  too  often  joined  with 
the  reft  of  mankind  againft  the  God  of  Ifrael.  In 
one  period  the  grofleft  ignorance  and  barbarifm 
prevailed  in  the  world ;  and  afterwards,  in  a  more 
enlightened  age,  the  mofl  daring  infidelity,  and 
contempt  of  God ;  fo  that  the  world  which  was 
once  over-run  with  ignorance,  now  by  wljdom 
"knew  not  God,  but  changed  the  glory  of  the  incorrup 
tible  God  as  much  a*  in  the  moil  barbarous  ages, 
into  an  image  made  like  to  corruptible  man>  and  to 
birds*  and  four-footed  btajls,  and  creeping  things. 
Nay,  as  they  increafed  in  fcience  and  politenefs, 
they  ran  into  more  abundant  and  extravagant 
idolatries. 

Yet 


(    5    ) 

Yet  God  repeatedly  made  known  his  intention 
to  prevail  finally  over  all  the  power  of  the  Devil, 
and  to  dcIUoy  all  his  works,  and  fet  up  his  own 
kingdom  and  intereft  among  men,  and  extend  it 
as  univerfally  as  Satan  had  extended  his.  It  was 
for  this  puvpofe  that  the  Median  came  and  died, 
that  God  might  be  juft,  and  the  juflifier  of  all 
that  £hould  believe  in  him.  When  he  had  laid 
down  his  life,  and  taken  it  up  again,  he  fent 
forth  his  diiciples  to  preach  the  good  tidings  to 
every  creature,  and  to  endeavour  by  all  poffible 
methods  to  bring  over  a  loft  world  to  God. 
They  went  forth  according  to  their  divine  com- 
iniflion,  and  wonderful  fuccefs  attended  their 
labours ;  the  civilized  greeks,  and  uncivilized  bar 
barians,  each  yielded  to  the  crofs  of  Chrift,  and 
embraced  it  as  the  only  way  of  falvation.  Since 
the  apoftolic  age  many  other  attempts  to  fpread 
the  gofpel  have  been  made,  which  have  been 
confiderably  fuceefsful,  notwithflanding  which  a 
very  confiderable  part  of  mankind  are  ftill  in 
volved  in  all  the  darknefs  of  heathenifm.  Some 
attempts  are  ftill  making,  but  they  are  incon- 
fiderable  in  compwifon  of  what  might  be  done  if 
the  whole  body  of  Chriftians  entered  heartily  into 
the  fpirit  of  the  divine  command  on  this  fubjecfc. 
Some  think  little  about  it,  others  are  unacquainted 
with  the  (late  of  the  world,  and  others  love  their 
wealth  better  than  the  fouls  of  their  fellow-crea 
tures. 

B  2.  In 


lu  order  that  the  fubjeft  may  be  taken  into 
more  ferious  confideration,  I  (hall  enquire,  whe 
ther  the  commiffion  given  by  our  Lord  to  his 
difciples  be  not  Hill  binding  on  us, — take  a  (hort 
view  of  former  undertakings,  — give  fome  account 
of  the  prefent  ftate  of  the  world,  confider  the 
practicability  of  doing  fometliing  more  than  is 
done,— and  the  duty  of  Chriflians  in  general  in 
this  matter. 


AN 


ENQUIRY,    &c. 


SECT.  I. 

An  Enquiry  whether  the  Coinmijjion  given  by  our  Lord 
to  his  Difciplcs  be  not  pill  binding  on  us. 

OUR  Lord  Jefus  Chrift,  a  little  before  his 
departure,  commiffioned  bis  apoflles  to  Go, 
and  teach  all  nations  \  Qf ^  as  another  evangelift  ex- 
pi  efTes  itr  Go  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  gofpel 
to  every  creature.  This  commiflion  was  as  exten- 
iive  as  poilible,  and  laid  them  under  obligation 
to  difperfe  themfelves  into  every  country  of  the 
habitable  globe,  and  preach  to  all  the  inhabitants, 
without  exception,  or  limitation.  They  accord 
ingly  went  forth  in  obedience  to  the  command, 
and  the  power  of  God  evidently  wrought  with 
them.  Many  attempts  of  the  fame  kind  have 

been 


(    8    ) 

been  made  fince  their  day,  and  which  have  been 
attended  with  various  fuccefs;  but  the  work  has 
not  been  taken  up.  or  profecuted  of  late  years 
(except  by  a  few  individuals)  with  that  zeal  and 
perfeverance  with  which  the  primitive  Chriftians 
went  about  it.  It  feems  as  if  many  thought  the 
commiflion  was  fufficiently  put  in  execution  by 
what  the  apoftles  and  others  have  done ;  that  we 
have  enough  to  do  to  attend  to  the  falvation  of 
our  own  countrymen ;  and  that,  if  God  intends 
the  falvation  of  the  heathen,  he  will  fome  way  or 
other  bring  them  to  the  gofpel,  or  the  gofpei  to 
them.  Itjs  thus  that  multitudes  fit  at  eafe,  and 
give  t.hemfelves  no  concern  about  the  far  greater 
part  of  their  feilow-iinneis,  who  to  this  day, 
are  loft  in  ignorance  and  idolatry.  There  feems 
alfo  to  be  an  opinion  exifling  in  the  minds  of 
fome,  that  becaufe  the  apoftles  were  extraordioary 
officers  and  have  no  proper  fucceflbrs,  and  be 
caufe  many  things  which  were  right  for  them  to 
do  would  be  utterly  unwarrantable  for  us,  there 
fore  it  may  not  be  immediately  binding  on  us  to 
execute  the  commiffion,  though  it  was  fo  upon 
them.  To  the  confideration  of  fuch  peifo/is  I 
would  offer  the  following  obfervations. 

FIRST,  If  the  command  of  Chrift  to  teach  all 
nations  be  reftricled  to  the  apoftles,  01-  thofe  under 
the  immediate  infpiration  of  the  Holy  Ghoft,  then 

that 


(     9     ) 

that  of  baptizing  fhould  be  fo  too;  and  every 
denomination  of  Chriftians,  except  the  Quakers, 
do  wrong  in  baptizing  with  water  at  all. 

SECONDLY,  If  the  command  of  ChriH  to  teach 
all  nations  be  confined  to  the  apoities,  then  all 
fiich  ordinary  minifters  who  have  endeavoured  to 
carry  the  gofpel  to  the  heathens,  have  a<5led  with 
out  a  warrant,  and  run  before  they  were  fent. 
Yea,  and  though  God  has  promifed  the  moil 
glorious  things  to  the  heathen  world  by  fending 
his  gofpel  to  them,  yet  whoever  goes  firft,  or  in 
deed  at  all,  with  that  meflage,  unlefs  he  have  a 
new  and  fpecial  commiffion  from  Leaven,  muft 
go  without  any  authority  for  fo  doing. 

THIRDLY,  If  the  command  of  Chrift  to  teach 
all  nations  extend  only  to  the  apoflles,  then, 
doubtlefs,  the  promife  of  the  divine  prefence  in 
this  work  muft  be  fo  limited ;  but  this  is  worded 
in  fuch  a  manner  as  exprefsly  precludes  fuch  an 
idea.  Lo,  I  am  with  you  always,  to  the  end  of  tht 
world. 

That  there  are  cafes  in  which  even  a  divine 
command  may  ceafe  to  be  binding  is  admitted  — 
As  for  inRance,  if  it  be  repealed,  as  the  ceremonial 
commandments  of  the  jewim  law ;  01  if  there  be 
in  the  world  for  the  commanded  acl  to 

be 


be  exercifed  upon,  as  in  the  law  of  feptennial  re- 
leafe*  which  might  be  difpenfed  with  when  there 
fhould  be  no  poor  in  the  land  to  have  their  debts 
forgiven.  Deut,  xv.  4.  or  if,  in  any  particular 
inftance,  we  can  produce  a  counter-revelation,  of 
equal  authority  with  the  original  command,  as 
when  Paul  and  Silas  were  forbidden  of  the  Holy 
Ghoft  to  preach  the  word  in  Bythinia.  Aels  pcvi. 
6.  7.  or  if,  in  any  cafet  there  be  a  natural  impoffi- 
lility  Qt  putting  it  in  execution.  It  was  not  the 
duty  of  Paul  to  preach  Chrift  to  the  inhabitants 
of  Otaheite,  becaufe  no  fuch  place  was  then  dif- 
covcred,  nor  had  he  any  means  of  coming  at 
them.  But  none  of  thefe  things  can  be  alledged 
by  us  in  behalf  of  the  negledl  of  the  comnaiUion 
given  by  Chrift.  We  cannot  fay  that  it  is  re 
pealed,  like  the  commands  of  the  ceremonial  law; 
nor  can  we  plead  that  there  are  no  objects  for  the 
command  to  be  exercifed  upon.  Alas!  the  far 
greater  part  of  the  world,  as  we  (hall  fee  prefently, 
are  flill  covered  with  heathen  darknefs !  Nor  can 
we  produce  a  counter-revelation,  concerning  any 
particular  nation,  like  that  to  Paul  and  Silas,  con 
cerning  Bythinia;  and,  if  we  could,  it  would  not 
warrant  our  fitting  flill  and  neglecting  all  the 
other  parts  of  the  world ;  for  Paul  and  Silas,  when 
forbidden  to  preach  to  thofe  heathens,  went  elfe- 
where,  and  preached  to  others.  Neither  can  we 
alledge  a  natural  impoffibility  in  the  cafe.  It  has 

been 


been  faid  that  we  ought  not  to  force  o\ir  way,  but 
to  \vait  for  the  openings,  and  leadings  of  Pro 
vidence  ;  but  it  might  with  equal  propriety  be 
tmfwered  in  this  cafe,  neither  ought  we  to  negJe& 
embracing  thofe  openings  in  providence  which 
daily  prefent  themfeives  to  us.      What  openings 
of  providence  do  we  wait  for?  We  can  neither 
expecl  to  be  tranfported  into  the  heathen  world. 
without  ordinary  means,  nor  to  he  endowed  with 
the  gift  of  tongues,  &c.  when  we  arrive  there. 
Thefe  would  not  be  providential  irUeTpofitions, 
hut  miraculous  ones.     Where  a  command  ex;  (is 
nothing   can  be  neceflary  to  render  it  binding 
but  a  removal  of  thofe  obftacles  which  render 
obedience   impoffible,    and   thcfe  are    removed 
already.      Natural1    impoffibility    can    never   be 
pleaded  fo  long  as  fods  exift  to  pro've  the  contrary. 
Have  not  the  popifli  miffionailes  furmounted  all 
thofe  difficulties  which  we  have  generally  thought 
to  be  inluperable?  Have  not  the  millionaTies  of 
{.he  Unitas  Fratrum,   or  Moravian   Brethren^   en 
countered  the  fcoiching  heat  of  Abyfllnia,  and 
the  frozen  climes  of  Greenland,  and  Labrador, 
their   difficult  languages,   and  favage  manners  ? 
Or  have  not  Enghih  traders,  for  the  fake  of  gain, 
furmounted  all  thofe  things  which  have  generally 
been   counted   infiumountable  obflacles  in  tbc 
way  of  preaching  the  gofpel?  Witnels  the  trade 
to  Perfia,  the  Eaft-Indies,  Chma4  and  Greenland, 

C  yea 


yea  even  the  accuried  Slave-Trade  on  the  coafts 
of  Africa.  Men  can  infinuate  themfelves  into 
the  favour  of  the  moft  barbarous  clans,  and  un 
cultivated  tribes,  for  the  fake  of  gain ;  and  how 
different  foever  the  circumftances  of  trading  and 
preaching  are,  yet  this  will  prove  the  pofTibility 
of  minifters  being  introduced  there;  and  if  this 
is  but  thought  a  fufficient  reafon  to  make  the 
experiment,  my  point  is  gained. 

It  has  been  faid  that  fome  learned  divines 
have  proved  from  Scripture  that  the  time  is  not 
yet  come  that  the  heathen  fliould  be  converted; 
and  that  firft  the  witnejfts  mufl  be  Jlaln,  and  many 
other  prophecies  fulfilled.  But  admitting  this  to 
be  the  cafe  (which  I  much  doubt*)  yet  if  any 
obje<5lion  is  made  from  this  againft  preaching  to 
them  immediately,  it  mufl  be  founded  on  one  of 
thefe  things ;  either  that  the  fecret  purpofe  of 
God  is  the  rule  of  our  duty,  and  then  it  mult  be 
as  bad  to  pray  for  them,  as  to  preach  to  them ; 
or  elfe  that  none  (hall  be  converted  in  the  hea 
then  world  till  the  univerfal  down-pouring  of  the 
Spirit  in  the  laft  days.  But  this  objection  comes 
too  late ;  for  the  fuccefs  of  the  gofpel  has  been 
very  confiderable  in  many  places  already. 

*  See  Edwards  on  Prayer,  on  this  fubjeft,  lately  re-printed 
by  Mr.  Sutcliffc. 

It 


(     '3     ) 

It  has  been  objeaed  that  there  are  multitudes 
in  our  own  nation,  and  within  our  immediate 
fpheres  of  a&ion,  who  are  as  ignorant  as  the 
South-Sea  favagesr  and  that  therefore  we  have 
work  enough  at  home,  without  going  into  other 
countries.  That  there  are  thoufands  in  our  own 
land  as  far  from  God  as  poffible,  I  readily  grant, 
and  that  this  ought  to  excite  us  to  ten-fold  dili 
gence  in  our  work,  and  in  attempts  to  fpread 
divine  knowledge  amongfl  them  is  a  certain  fad ; 
but  that  it  ought  to  fupercede  all  attempts  to 
fpread  the  gofpel  in  foreign  parts  feems  to  want 
proof.  Our  own  countrymen  have  the  means  of 
grace,  and  may  attend  on  the  word  preached  if 
they  chufe  it.  They  have  the  means  of  knowing 
the  truth,  and  faithful  miniflers  are  placed  in 
almoft  every  part  of  the  land,  whofe  fpheres  of 
aclion  might  be  much  extended  if  their  congre 
gations  were  but  more  hearty  and  aclive  in  the 
caufe :  but  with  them  the  cafe  is  widely  different, 
who  have  no  Bible,  no  written  language,  (which 
many  of  them  have  not>)  no  minifters,  no  good 
civil  government,  nor  any  of  thofe  advantages 
which  we  have.  Pity  therefore,  humanity,  and 
much  more  Chriftianity,  call  loudly  for  every 
poffible  exertion  to  introduce  the  gofpel  amongft 
them. 


C  a  SECT. 


( 


SECT.   II. 

Containing  a Jh  or t  Review  of  former  Undertakings  for 
the  Converjion  of  the  Pleathen. 

BEFORE  the  coming  of  our  Lord  Jefus  Chrifl: 
the  whole  world  were  either  heathens,  or 
jews;  and  both,  as  to  the  body  of  them  were 
enemies  to  the  gofpel.  After  the  refurre&ion  the 
difciples  continued  in  Jerufalein  tili  Pentecoft. 
Being  daily  engaged  in  prayer  and  fupplication, 
and  having  chofen  Matthias,  to  fuppiy  the  place 
of  Judas  in  the  apoftolic  office,  on  that  folemn 
day,  when  they  were  ail  affembied  together,  a 
mod  remarkable  effufion  of  the  Holy  Spirit  took 
place,  and  a  capacity  of  ipeaking  in  all  foreign 
languages  was  beftowed  upon  them.  This  oppor 
tunity  was  embraced  by  Peter  for  preaching  the 
gofpeJ  to  a  great  congregation  of  jews  and  pro- 
felytes,  who  were  fiom  Parthia,  Media,  Elam, 
Mesopotamia,  |udea,  Cappadocia,  the  proconfular 
Afia,  Phjygia,  Pamphyha,  Egypt,  Lybia,  Crete, 
Arabia,  Rome,  &c  and  at  the  firfl  effort  God 
wrought  fo  powerfully  that  three  tlioufand  were 
converted,  who  immediately  after  were  baptized, 
and  added  to  the  church.  Before  this  great 

addition 


(     '5     ) 

addition  they  confifled  of  but  about  an  hundred 
and  twenty  perfons,  but  from  that  time  they  con 
tinually  increafed.  It  was  but  a  little  after  this 
that  Peter  and  John,  going  up  to  the  temple, 
healed  the  lame  man;  this  miracle  drew  a  great 
multitude  together,  and  Peter  took  occafion  while 
they  flood  wondering  at  the  event,  to  preach 
Jefus  Chrift  to  them.  The  confequence  was  that 
five  thoufand  more  believed. 

This  was  not  done  without  oppofition ;  the 
priefls  and  fadducees  tried  all  the  methods  they 
could  invent  to  prevent  them  from  preaching  the 
gofpel.  The  apofties,  however,  aflerted  their 
divine  warrant,  and  as  loon  as  they  were  fet  at 
liberty  addrefTed  God,  and  prayed  that  a  divine 
power  might  attend  their  labours,  which  petition 
was  heard,  and  thtir  future  miniflry  was  very 
fuccefsful.  On  account  of  their  neceffities  who 
were  engaged  in  this  good  work,  thofe  amongft 
them  who  had  poffeiTions,  or  goods,  fold  them, 
and  devoted  the  money  to  pious  ufes. 

About  this  time  a  man  and  his  wife  out  of 
great  pretenfions  to  piety,  fold  an  eftate,  and 
brought  part  of  the  money  to  the  apofties,  pre 
tending  it  to  be  the  whole ;  for  which  diffimula- 
tion  both  he  and  his  wife,  were  ftruck  dead  by 
the  hand  of  God,  This  awful  cataftrophc  how 
ever 


f     .6     ) 

ever  was  the  occafion  of  many  more  men  and 
women  being  added  to  the  church  The  miracles 
wrought  by  the  apoftles,  and  the  fuccefs  attend 
ing  their  miniftry,  ftirred  up  greater  envy  in  the 
priefts  and  fadducees,  who  impi  iioned  them ; 
from  which  confinement  they  were  foon  liberated 
by  an  angel;  upon  which  they  went  immediately 
as  they  were  commanded  and  preached  in  the 
temple :  here  they  were  feized,  and  brought  be 
fore  the  council,  where  Gamaliel  fpake  in  their 
favour,  and  they  were  difmifled  After  this  they 
continued  to  profecute  their  work,  rejoicing  that 
they  were  counted  worthy  to  fuffer  fhame  for  the 
name  of  Chrift. 

By  this  time  t^e  church  at  Jerufalem  was  fo 
increafed  that  the  multiplicity  of  its  temporal  con 
cerns  was  the  occafion  of  fome  neglects,  which 
produced  a  diflatisfaction.  The  apoftles,  there 
fore,  recommended  to  the  church  to  chufe  feven 
pious  men,  whofe  orfice  it  mould  be  to  attend 
upon  its  temporal  affairs ;  that  they  might  give 
theniftlves  to  prayer,  and  the  mimjlry  of  the  word. 
Seven  were  accordingly  chofen,  over  whom  the 
apoflles  prayed,  and  ordained  them  to  the  office 
of  Deacons  by  impofition  of  hands:  and  thefe 
things  tfeing  fettled  the  church  increafed  more 
and  more.  One  of  thefe  Deacons,  whofe  name 
was  Stephen,  being  a  perfon  of  eminent  know 
ledge 


(     '7     ) 

ledge  and  holinefs,  wrought  many  miracles,  and 
difputed  with  great  evidence  and  energy  for  the 
truth  of  Chriftianity,  which  raifed  him  up  a 
number  of  opponents.  Thefe  foon  procured  his 
death,  and  carried  their  refentment  fo  far  as  to 
ftir  up  fuch  a  perfecution  that  the  church,  which 
till  now  had  been  confined  to  Jerusalem,  was  dif- 
perfed,  and  all  the  preachers  except  the  apoftles 
were  driven  thence,  and  went  every  where 
preaching  the  word. 

A  young  man  whofe  name  was  Saul,  was  very 
adlive  in  this  perfecution ;  he  had  been  educated 
under  Gamaliel,  a  member  of  the  Sanhedrim, 
was  a  perfon  of  promifing  genius,  by  profeffion  a 
Pharifee,  and  much  attached  to  the  jewifh  cere 
monies.  When  Stephen  was  (toned  he  appeared 
much  pleated  with  it,  and  had  the  cuftody  of 
th«  clothes  of  his  executioners;  and  from  that 
time  was  fired  with  fuch  a  fpirit  of  perfecutiou 
himfelf,  that  he  went  about  dragging  fome  to 
prifon,  and  compelling  others  to  blafpheme  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jefus.  Neither  was  he  con 
tented  with  exercifing  his  rage  at  Jerufalem,  but 
went  to  the  chief  priefts  and  obtained  teftimonials 
of  authority  to  carry  on  the  fame  work  at  Damaf- 
cus.  But  on  his  way,  as  he  was  almofl  ready  to 
enter  into  the  city,  the  Lord  changed  his  heart  in 
a  very  wonderful  manner;  fo  that  inftead  of  en 
tering 


(    .8     ) 

tering  the  town  to  perfecute,  he  began  to  preach 
the  gofpel  as  foon  as  be  was  able.  This  pirefently 
brought  upon  him  the  fame  persecution  which  he 
had  defigned  to  exercife  upon  others,  and  even 
endangered  his  life,  fo  that  the  brethren  found  it 
neceflary  to  let  him  down  the  city  wall  in  a 
bafket  by  night,  and  fo  he  efcaped  the  hands  of 
his  enemies.  From  thence  he  went  to  Jerufalem 
where  he  preached  the  word,  but  being  perfecuted 
there,  he  went  to  Cefarea,  and  from  thence  to 
Tarfus. 

In  the  time  of  this  trouble  in  the  church, 
Philip  went  and  preached  at  Samaria  with  great 
fuccefs,  nay  fo  great  was  the  work  that  an  im- 
poftor,  who  had  deceived  the  people  with  leger 
demain  tricks  for  a  long  time  was  fo  amazed,  and 
even  convinced,  as  to  profefs  himfelf  a  Chriftian, 
and  was  baptized;  but  was  afterwards  dete&ed, 
and  appeared  to  be  an  hypocrite.  Befides  him  a 
great  number  believed  in  reality,  and  being  bap 
tized  a  church  was  formed  there.  Soon  after  this 
the  Lord  commanded  Philip  to  go  the  way  which 
led  from  Jerufalem  to  Gaza,  which  he  did,  and 
there  found  an  eunuch  of  great  authority  in  the 
court  of  Ethiopia,  to  whom  he  preached  Chrift, 
who  believed,  and  was  baptized;  after  which 
Philip  preached  at  Afhdod,  or  Azotus. 

About 


(     '9     ) 

About  the  fame  time  Peter  went  to  Lydda,  or 
Diofpolis,  and  cured  Eneas  of  a  palfy,  which  was 
a  mean  of  the  converfion  not  only  of  the  inha 
bitants  of  that  town,  but  alfo  of  the  neighbouring 
country,  called  Saron,  the  capital  of  which  was 
Lafharon ;  and  while  he  was  there,  a  circumftance 
turned  up  which  tended  much  to  the  fpread  of 
the  truth.  A  woman  of  Joppa,  a  fea-port  town 
in  the  neighbourhood,  dying*  they  fent  to  Lydda 
for  Peter,  who  went  over,  and  when  he  had 
prayed  (he  was  raifed  to  life  again ;  which  was  an 
'occafion  of  the  converfion  of  many  in  that  town. 
Peter  continued  there  preaching  for  fome  time, 
and  lodged  at  the  houfe  of  a  tanner. 

Now  another  circumftance  alfo  tended  to  the 
further  propogation  of  Chnflianity,  for  a  Roman 
military  officer  who  had  fome  acquaintance  with 
the  Old  Teflament  Scriptures,  but  was  not  cir- 
cumcifed,  was  one  day  engaged  in  prayer  in  his 
houfe  at  Cefarea,when  an  angel  appeared  to  him, 
and  bid  him  fend  for  Peter  from  Joppa  to  preach 
in  his  houfe.  Before  this  the  work  of  God  had 
been  wholly  confined  to  the  jews,  and  jewHh  pro- 
felytes,  and  even  the  apoftles  appeared  to  have 
had  very  contracted  ideas  of  the  Chrifhan  dif- 
penfation;  but  now  God  by  a  vifion  difcovered 
to  Peter  that  Chriftianity  was  to  be  fpread  into 
all  nationi.  He  accordingly  went  and  preached 

D  * 


at  the  houfe  of  Cornelius,  at  Cefarea,  when  feveral 
were  converted,  and  baptized,  and  the  foundation 
of  a  church  laid  in  that  city. 

Some  of  the  difperfed  minifters  having  fled  to 
Antioch  in  Syria,  began  to  preach  to  the  greeks 
in  that  city  about  the  fame  time,  and  had  good 
fuccefc;  upon  which  the  apoftles  fent  Paul  and 
Barnabas,  who  inftrucled  and  ftrengthened  them, 
and  a  church  was  formed  in  that  city  alfo, 
which  in  a  little  time  fent  out  feveral  eminent 
preachers. 

In  the  Acls  of  the  apoftles  we  have  an  account 
of  four  of  the  principal  journies  which  Paul,  and 
his  companions  undertook  The  firft,  in  which 
he  was  accompanied  by  Barnabas,  is  recorded  in 
the  xiii.  and  xiv.  chapters,  and  was  the  firft  attack 
on  the  heathen  world.  It  was  a  journey  into  the 
3e{Ter  ACa.  In  their  way  they  pa(Ted  over  the 
ifland  of  Cyprus.  No  fooner  had  they  entered 
on  their  undertaking,  than  they  met  with  great 
difficulty;  for  Mark,  whom  they  had  taken  as 
their  minifter,  deferted  them,  and  returned  to 
Jerufalera,  where,  it  feems,  he  thought  he  ftiould 
enjoy  the  greateft  quiet.  Paul  and  Barnabas  how 
ever  went  forward ;  in  every  city  they  preached 
the  word  of  the  Lord,  entering  into  the  jewifli 
Synagogues  and  firft  preaching  Chrift  to  them, 

and 


and  then  to  the  gentiles.  They  were  heard  with 
great  candoui  and  eagernefs  by  fome,  and  rejected 
by  others  with  obftinacy  and  wrath,  and  cruel 
perfecution.  One  while  they  had  enough  to  do 
to  reftrain  the  people  from  worihipping  them  as 
gods,  and  foon  after,  Paul  was  ftoned,  dragged 
out  of  the  city,  and  left  for  dead.  Having  pene 
trated  as  far  as  Derbe,  they  thought  proper  to 
return  by  the  way  that  they  came,  calling  at  every 
city  where  they  had  fown  the  good  feed,  and 
finding  in  moft,  if  not  all  thefe  places,  fome 
who  had  embraced  the  gofpel,  they  exhorted  and 
ftrengthened  them  in  the  faith,  formed  them  into 
a  church  {late,  and  ordained  them  elders,  faded 
and  prayed  with  them;  and  fo  having  com 
mended  them  to  the  Lord  on  whom  they  had 
believed,  returned  to  Antioch  in  Syria,  from 
whence  they  firft  fet  out,,  and  rehearfed  ta  the 
church  all  that  God  had  done  with  them,  and 
how  he  had  opened  the  door  of  faith  to  the 
gentiles. 

About  this  time  a  difpute  anting  in  the 
churches  concerning  circumcifion,  Paul  and  Bar 
nabas  were  deputed  to  go  up  to  Jerufalem,  to 
confult  the  apoftles  and  elders  on  the  fubjedL 
This  bufmefs  being  adjufled,  they,  accompanied 
with  Judas  and  Silas,  returned  to  Antioch  with 
the  general  refolution,  and  continued  there  for  a 

f)   a  ieafoii. 


feafon,  teaching  and  preaching  the  word  of  the 
Lord. 

Paul  now  propofed  to  Barnabas,  his  fellow- 
labourer,  that  they  might  vilit  their  brethren  in 
the  piaces  where  they  had  been  already,  and  fee 
how  thev  did.  To  this  Barnabas  readily  acceded, 
but  a  difference  arifing  between  them  about 
taking  John  Mark  with  them,  who  had  deferted 
them  before,  thefe  two  eminent  fervants  of  God 
were  parted  afunder,  and  never  appear  to  have 
travelled  together  any  more.  They  continued 
however  each  to  ferve  in  the  caufe  of  Chrift, 
though  they  could  not  walk  together.  Barnabas 
took  John,  and  failed  to  Cyprus,  his  native 
ifland,  and  Paul  took  Silas,  and  went  through 
Syria  and  Cilicia.  to  Derbe  and  Lyflra,  cities 
where  he  and  Barnabas  had  preached  in  their 
firft  excurfion. 

Here  they  found  Timothy,  a  promifing  young 
man,  whom  they  encouraged  to  engage  in  the 
miniftry. 

Paul  being  now  at  Lyftra,  which  was  the 
boundary  of  his  firft  excurfion,  and  having  vifited 
the  churches  alieady  planted,  and  delivered  to 
them  the  decrees  of  the  apoftles  and  elders  relat 
ing  to  circumcifion,  feems  to  have  felt  his  heart 

enlarged, 


enlarged,  and  aflayed  to  carry  on  the  glorious 
work  of  preaching  the  gofpel  to  the  heathen  to  a 
greater  extent.     With   Silas  and  Timotheus  he 
in  his  fecond  journey*  took  a  weftern  direction, 
patting  through  Phrygia,  and  the  region  of  Galatia. 
Having  preached  the  word  in  thefe   parts  with 
confiderable   fuccefs,f   he  and   his   companions 
wiftied  to  have  gone  into  the  proconsular  Alia, 
and  afterwards  allayed  to  go  into  Bythinia ;  but 
being  forbidden  of  the  Holy  Ghoft,  who  feems  to 
have  had  a  fpecial  defign  of  employing  them  clfe- 
where ;  pafling  by  Myfia  they  came  down  toTroas 
on  the  fea-coail.    Here  a  vifion  appeared  to  Paul, 
in  which  he  was  invited  to  go  over  to  Macedonia. 
Obedient  to  the  heavenly  vifion,  and  greatly  en 
couraged  by  it,  they  with  all  fpeed  crofled  the 
Egean  Sea,   and  pafling  through  the  iiland  of 
Samothracia,  landed  at  Neapolis,  and  went  from 
thence  to  Philippi,  the  chief  city  of  that  part  of 
Macedonia,     It  was  here  that  Paul  preached  on 
a  Sabbath  day  to  a  few  women  by  a  river  fide, 
and  Lydia,  a  woman  of  Thyatira,  was  converted 
and  baptized,  and  her  houmold  with   her.     It 
was  here  that  a  poor  girl,  who  brought  her  em 
ployers  confiderable  profit  by  foretelling  future 

*  The  account  of  this  fecond  journey  into  the  heathen  world 
begins  at  Afts  xv.  40.  and  ends  chap!  xviii,  22. 
-(•  See  ch,  xviii,  2?.  and  Gal.  it  2. 

events. 


events,  followed  the  apoftles,  had  her  fpirit  of 
divination  eje&ed,  on  which  account  her  matters 
were  much  irritated,  and  raifed  a  tumult,  the 
effect  of  which  was,  that  Paul  and  Silas  were  inv 
prifoned.  But  even  this  was  over-ruled  for  the 
fuccefs  of  the  gofpel,  in  that  the  keeper  of  the 
prifon,  and  all  his  houfe,  were  thereby  brought 
to  believe  in  the  Lord  Jefus  Chrifl,  and  were 
baptized* 

From  Philippi  they  patted  thorough  Amphi- 
polis,  Apollonia,  Theffalonica,  (now  Salonichi,) 
Berea,  Athens,  and  Corinth,  preaching  the  gofpel 
wherever  they  went.  From  hence  Paul  took 
{hip  and  failed  to  Syria,  only  giving  a  fliort  call 
at  Ephefus,  determining  to  be  at  Jerufalem  at 
the  feaft  of  the  paffover;  and  having  faluted  the 
church,  he  came  to  Cefarea,  and  from  thence  to 
Antioch. 

Here  ended  Paul's  fecond  journey,  which  was 
very  extenfive,  and  took  up  fome  years  of  his 
rime.  He  and  his  companions  met  with  their 
difficulties  in  it,  but  had  likewife  their  encourage 
ments.  They  were  perfecuted  at  Philippi,  as 
already  noticed,  and  generally  found  the  Jews  to 
be  their  moil  inveterate  enemies.  Thefe  would 
raife  tumults,  inflame  the  minds  of  the  gentiles 
agamft  them,  and  follow  them  from  place  to 

place. 


(    '5    ) 

place,  doing  them  all  the  mifchief  in  their  power. 
This  was  the  cafe  efpecially  atTheflalonica,  Berea, 
and  Corinth*  But  amidil  all  their  perfections 
God  was  with  them,  and  ftrengthened  them  in 
various  ways.  At  Beiea  they  were  candidly  re 
ceived,  and  their  doclrine  fairly  tried  by  the 
Holy  Scriptures ;  and  therefore,  it  is  faid,  many  of 
them  believed.  At  other  places,  though  they  affe&ed 
to  defpife  the  apoftle,  yet  fome  clave  unto  him. 
At  Corinth  oppofition  rofe  to  a  great  height ;  but 
the  Lord  appeared  to  his  fervant  in  a  vifion,  fay 
ing,  Be  not  afraid,  but  fpeak*  and  hold  not  thy  peace, 
for  J  am  with  thee,  and  no  man  Jhallfet  on  thee  to  hurt 
thee ;  for  I  have  much  people  in  this  city.  And  the 
piomife  was  abundantly  made  good  in  the  fpirit 
difcovered  by  Gallic,  the  proconful,  who  turned 
a  deaf  ear  to  the  accufations  of  the  jews,  and 
nobly  declined  interfering  in  matters  befide  his 
province.  Upon  the  whole  a  number  of  churches 
were  planted  during  this  journey,  which  for  ages 
after  (hone  as  lights  in  the  world. 

\Vhen  Paul  had  vifited  Antioch,  and  fpent 
fome  time  there,  he  prepared  for  a  third  journey 
into  heathen  countries,  the  account  of  which 
begins  Acts  xviii.  23.  and  ends  chap.  xxi.  i  7.  At 
his  firft  fetting  out  he  went  over  the  whole  country 
of  Galatia  and  Phrygia  in  order,  (lengthening  all 
the  difciples ;  and  patting  through  the  upper  coafts 


came 


eame  to  Ephefus.  There  for  the  fpace  of  three 
months,  he  boldly  preached  in  the  jewifli  fyna- 
gogue,  difputing^  and  perfuading  the  things  con 
cerning  the  kingdom  of  God.  But  when  the 
hardened  jews  had  openly  reje&ed  the  gofpel,  and 
fpake  evil  of  that  way  before  the  multitude,  Paul 
openly  feparated  the  difciples  from  them,  and 
aflembled  in  the  fchooi  of  one  Tyrannus.  This, 
it  is  faid,  continued  for  the  fpace  of  two  years, 
fo  that  all  they  who  dwelt  in  the  proconfular  AJia 
heard  the  word  of  the  Lord  jfejus^  both  jews  and  greeks. 
Certain  magicians,  about  this  time  were  expofed, 
and  others  converted,  who  burnt  their  books,  and 
confeffed  their  deeds.  So  mightily  grew  the  word 
of  the  Lord,  and  prevailed. 

After  this  an  uproar  being  raifed  by  Demetrius, 
the  mverfmith,  Paul  went  into  Macedonia,  vifited 
the  churches  planted  in  his  former  jouiney,  and 
from  thence  pafled  into  Greece.  Having  preached 
up  and  down  for  three  months,  he  thought  of 
failing  from  thence  dire<5tly  to  Syria;  but  in 
order  to  avoid  the  jews,  who  laid  wait  for  him 
near  the  fea  coaft,  he  took  another  courfe  through 
Macedonia,  and  from  thence  to  Troas,  by  the 
way  of  Philippi.  There  is  no  mention  made  in 
his  former  j'ourney  of  his  having  preached  at 
Troas;  yet  it  feems  he  did,  and  a  church  was 
gathered,  with  whom  the  apoIUe  at  this  time 

united 


(    =7     ) 

united  in  breaking  of  bread.  It  was  here  that  he 
preached  ail  night,  and  raifed  Eutychus,  vvho 
being  overcome  with  fleep,  had  fallen  down,  and 
was  taken  up  dead.  From  hence  they  fet  fail  for 
Syria,  and  in  their  way  called  at  Miletus,  where 
Paul  fent  for  the  elders  of  the  church  of  Ephefus, 
and  delivered  that  mofl  folemn  and  affectionate 
farewell,  recorded  in  the  aolh  chapter  of  the  Acts 
of  the  Apoftles.  From  hence  they  failed  for 
Tyre,  where  they  tarried  feven  days,  and  from 
thence  proceeded  to  Jerufalem. 

Paul's  fourth  and  laft  journey  (or  rather  voy 
age)  was  to  Rome,  where  he  went  in  the  character 
of  a  prifoner.  For  being  at  Jerusalem  he  was 
quickly  apprehended  by  the  jews;  but  being 
refcued  by  Lyfias,  the  chief  captain,  he  was  fent 
to  Cefarea  to  take  his  trial.  Here  he  made  his 
defence  before  Felix  and  Drufilla,  in  fuch  fort 
that  the  judge,  inflead  of  the  prifoner,  was  made 
to  tremble.  Here  alfo  he  made  his  defence 
before  Feflus,  Agrippa,  and  Bernice,  with  fuch 
force  of  evidence  that  Agrippa  was  alrhoit  per- 
fuaded  to  be  a  Chriflian.  But  the  malice  of  the 
jews  being  infatiable,  and  Paul  finding  himfelf  in 
danger  of  being  delivered  into  their  hands,  was 
conftrained  to  appeal  unto  Cxfar.  This  was  the 
occafion  of  his  being  fent  to  Rome,  where  he 
arrived  after  a  long  and  dangerous  voyage,  and 

E  being 


being  fhipwrecked  on  the  ifland  of  Melita,  where 
be  wrought  miracles,  and  Publius,  the  governor, 
was  converted. 

When  he  arrived  at  Rome  he  addrefled  his 
countrymen  the  jews,  fome  of  whom  believed; 
but  when  others  reje&ed  the  golpel,  he  turned 
from  them  to  the  gentiles,  and  for  two  whole 
years  dwelt  in  his  own  hired  houfe  preaching  the 
kingdom  of  God,  and  teaching  thofe  things  which 
concern  the  Lord  Jefus  Chrift,with  all  confidence, 
no  man  forbidding  him. 

Thus  far  the  hiftory  of  the  A£s  of  the  Apoflles 
informs  us  of  the  fuccefs  of  the  word  in  the 
primitive  times;  and  hiftory  informs  us  of  its 
being  preached  about  this  time,  in  many  other 
places.  Peter  fpeaks  of  a  church  at  Babylon ; 
Paul  propofed  a  journey  to  Spain,  and  it  is  gene 
rally  believed  he  went  there,  and  likewife  came 
to  France  and  Britain.  Andrew  preached  to  the 
Scythians,  north  of  the  Black  Sea.  John  is  faid 
to  have  preached  in  India,  and  we  know  that  he 
was  at  the  Ifle  of  Patmos,  in  the  Archipelago. 
Philip  is  reported  to  have  preached  in  upper  Ada, 
Scythia,  and  Phrygia ;  Bartholomew  in  India,  on 
this  fide  the  Ganges,  Phrygia,  and  Armenia; 
Matthew  in  Arabia,  or  Afiatic  Ethiopia,  and 
Parthia ;  Thomas  in  India,  as  far  as  the  coaft  of 

Coromandel, 


Coromandel,  and  fome  fay  in  the  ifland  of  Cey 
lon  ;  Simon,  the  Canaanhe,  in  Egypt,  Cyrene, 
Mauritania,  Lybia,  and  other  parts  of  Africa,  and 
from  thence  to  have  come  to  Britain ;  and  Jude 
is  faid  to  have  been  principally  engaged  in  the 
lefler  Afia,  and  Greece.  Their  labours  were 
evidently  very  extenfive,  and  very  fuccefsful ;  fo 
that  Pliny,  the  younger,  who  lived  foon  after  the 
death  of  the  apoftles,  in  a  letter  to  the  emperor, 
Trajan,  obferved  that  Cbriftianity  had  fpread,  not 
only  through  towns  and  cities,  but  alfo  through 
whole  countries.  Indeed  before  this,  in  the  time 
of  Neso,  it  was  fo  prevalent  that  it  was  thought 
neceffary  to  oppofe  it  by  an  Imperial  Edicl,  and 
accordingly  the  proconfuls,  and  other  governors, 
were  commiflioned  to  deltroy  it. 

Juflin  Martyr,  who  lived  about  the  middle  of 
the  fecond  century,  in  his  dialogue  with  Trypho, 
obferved  that  there  was  no  part  of  mankind,  whe 
ther  greeks  or  barbarians,  or  any  others,  by  what 
name  foever  they  were  called,  whether  the  Sarma- 
tians,  or  the  Nomades,  who  had  no  houfes. 
or  the  Scenites  of  Arabia  Petrea,  who  lived  in 
tents  among  their  cattl<»,  where  fupplications  and 
thankfgivings  are  not  ofiered  up  to  the  Father,  and 
maker  of  all  things,  through  the  name  of  Jefus 
Ch  itt.  Irenaeus,  who  lived  about  the  year  1 70, 
fpeaks  of  churches  that  were  founded  in  Germany, 
E  i  Spain, 


(     3°     ) 

Spain,  France,  the  eaftcrn  countries,  Egypt,  Ly- 
bia,  and  the  middle  of  the  world  Tertullian, 
who  lived  and  wrote  at  Carthage  in  Africa,  about 
twenty  years  afterwards,  enumerating  the  coun 
tries  where  Chriftianity  had  penetrated,  makes 
mention  of  theParlhians,  Medes,  Elamites,  Mefo- 
potamians,  Armenians,  Phrygians,  Cappadocians, 
the  inhabitants  of  Pontus,  Afia,  Pamphylia, 
Egypt,  and  the  regions  of  Africa  beyond  Gyrene, 
the  Romans,  and  Jews,  formerly  of  Jerufalem, 
many  of  the  Getuli,  many  borders  of  the  Mauri, 
or  Moors,  in  Mauritania;  now  Barbary,  Morocco, 
&c.  all  the  borders  ot  Spain,  many  nations  of  the 
Gauls,  and  the  places  in  Britain  which  were  in- 
acceftlblc  to  the  Romans;  the  Dacians,  Sarma- 
tians,  Germans,  Scythians,  and  the  inhabitants 
of  many  hidden  nations  and  provinces,  and  of 
many  iflands  unknown  to  him,  and  which  he 
could  not  enumerate.  The  labo-uis  of  the  mini- 
fiefs  of  the  gofpel,  in  this  early  period,  were  fo 
remarkably  blefled  of  God,  thai  the  lad- mentioned 
writer  obferved,  in  a  letter  to  Scapula,  that  if  he 
began  a  perfecution  the  city  of  Carthage  itfelf 
inuft  be  decimated  thereby.  Yea.  and  fo  abundant 
v/ere  they  in  the  three  fir  ft  ceniuiies,  that  ten 
years  conftant  and  almoft  univerfal  perfecution 
under  Dioclefian,  could  neither  root  out  the 
Chriftians.  nor  prejudice  theii  caufe. 

After 


After  this  they  had  great  encouragement  under 
feveial  emperors,  particularly  Conftantine  and 
Theodofius,  and  a  very  great  work  of  God  was 
carried  on ;  but  the  eafe  and  affluence  which  in 
thefe  times  attended  the  church,  ferved  to  intro- 
troduce  a  flood  of  corruption,  which  by  degrees 
brought  on  the  whole  fyftem  of  popery,  by  means 
of  which  all  appeared  to  he  loft  again;  and  Satan 
fet  up  his  kingdom  of  daiknefs,  deceit,  and  hu 
man  authority  over  confcience,  through  all  the 
Chriftian  world. 

In  the  time  of  Conftantine,  one  Frumentius 
was  fent  to  preach  to  the  Indians,  and  met  with 
great  fuccefs.  A  young  woman  who  was  a  Chrif 
tian,  being  taken  captive  by  the  Iberians,  or 
Georgians,  near  the  Cafpim  Sea,  informed  them 
of  the  truths  of  Chriftianity,  and  was  fo  much  re 
garded  that  they  ferit  to  Conftantme  for  minifters 
to  come  and  preach  the  word  to  them.  About 
the  fame  time  fome  barbarous  nations  having 
made  irruptions  into  Thrace,  carried  away  feveral 
Chriftians  captive,  who  preached  the  gofpel ;  by 
which  means  the  inhabitants  upon  the  Rhine, 
and  the  Danube,  the  Celtae,  and  fome  other  parts 
of  Gaul,  were  brought  to  embrace  Chriftianity. 
About  this  time  alfo  James  of  Nifbia,  went  into 
Perfia  to  ftrengthen  the  Chriftians,  and  preach  to 
the  heathens;  and  his  fuccefs  was  fo  great  that 

Adiabene 


(    3*     ) 

Adiabene  was  almoft  entirely  Chriftian.  About 
the  year  372,  one  Mofes,  a  Monk,  went  to  preach 
to  the  Saracens,  who  then  lived  in  Arabia,  where 
he  had  great  fuccefs ;  and  at  this  time  the  Goths, 
and  other  northern  nations,  had  the  kingdom  of 
Chrift  further  extended  amongft  them,  but  which 
was  very  foon  corrupted  with  Arianifm. 

Soon  after  this  the  kingdom  of  Chrift  was 
further  extended  among  the  Scythian  Nomades, 
beyond  the  Danube,  and  about  the  year  430,  a 
people  called  the  Burgundians,  received  the  gof- 
pel.  Four  years  after  that  Palladius  was  fent  to 
preach  in  Scotland,  and  the  next  year  Patrick  wan 
fent  from  Scotland  to  preach  to  the  Irifh>  who 
before  his  time  were  totally  uncivilized,  and, 
fome  fay,  cannibals;  he  however,  was  ufeful, 
arid  laid  the  foundations  of  feveral  churches  in 
Ireland.  Prefently  after  this,  truth  fpread  further 
among  the  Saracens,  arid  in  5-22,  Zathus,  king  of 
the  Colchians  encouraged  it,  and  many  of  that 
nation  were  converted  to  Chriftianity.  About 
this  time  alfo  the  work  was  extended  in  Ireland, 
by  Finian,  and  in  Scotland  by  Conftantine  and 
Columba ;  the  latter  of  whom  preached  alfo  to 
the  Picls,  and  Brudaeus,  their  king,  with  feveral 
others,  were  converted.  About  54 1,  Adad,  the 
king  of  Ethiopia,  was  converted  by  the  preaching 
of  Maniionarius ;  the  Heruli  beyond  the  Danube, 

were 


(     33    ) 

were  now  made  obedient  to  the  faith,  and  the 
Abafgi,  near  the  Caucafian  Mountains. 

But  now  popery,  efpecially  the  compulfive  part 
of  it,  was  rifen  to  ftich  an  height,  that  the  ufual 
method  of  propagating  the  gofpel,  or  father  what 
was  fo  called,  was  to  conquer  pagan  nations  by 
force  of  arms,  and  then  oblige  them  to  fubmit  to 
Chriflianity,  after  which  biihopricks  were  ereded, 
and  perfons  then  fent  to  inftru6l  the  people.  I 
{hall  juft  mention  fome  of  thofe  who  are  faid  to 
have  laboured  thus. 

In  596,  Auftin,  the  monk,  Melitus,  Juflus, 
Paulinus,  and  Ruffinian,  laboured  in  England, 
and  in  their  way  were  very  fuccefsful.  Paulinus, 
who  appears  to  have  been  one  of  the  befl  of  them, 
had  great  fuccefs  in  Northumberland;  Birinnius 
preached  to  the  Weft  Saxons,  and  Felix  to  the 
Eaft  Angles.  In  589,  Amandus  Gallus  laboured 
in  Ghent,  Chelenus  in  Artois,  and  Gallus  and 
Columbanus  in  Suabia.  Jn  648,  Egidius  Gallus 
in  Flanders,  and  the  two  Evaldi,  in  Weftphalia. 
In  684,  Willifred,  in  the  Ifle  of  Wight.  Jn  638, 
Chilianus,  in  upper  Franconia.  In  698,  Boni 
face,  or  Winifred,  among  the  Thuringians,  near 
Erford,  in  Saxony,  arid  Willibroad  in  Weft-Frid- 
land  Charlemagne  conquered  Hungary  in  the 
year  800,  and  obliged  the  inhabitants  to  profefs 

Chriflianity, 


(     34     ) 

Chriftianity,  when  Modeftus  likewife  preached  to 
the  Venedi,  at  the  fource  of  the  Save  and  Drave. 
In  833,  Anfgarius  preached  in  Denmark,  Gaudi- 
bert  in  Sweden,  and  about  861,  Methodius  and 
Cyril,  in  Bohemia. 

About  the  year  500,  the  Scythians  over-run  Bul 
garia,  and  Chriftianity  was  extirpated ;  but  about 
870  they  were  re-converted.     Poland  began  to 
be  brought  over  about  the  fame  time,  and  after 
wards,  about  960  or  ggo,  the  work  was  furthei 
extended  amongft  the  Poles  and  Pruffians.     The 
work  was  begun  in  Norway  in  ^60,  and  in  Muf- 
covy  in  989,  the  Swedes  propagated  Chriftianity 
in  Finland,  in  i  x  66,  Lithuania  became  Chriftian 
in  1386,  and  Samogitia  in  1439.  The  Spaniards 
forced  popery  upon  the   inhabitants  of  South- 
America,    and   the    Portiiguefe   in   ACa.      The 
Jefuits  were  fent  into  China  in  1552.     Xavier, 
whom  they  call  the  apoftle  of  the  Indians,  la 
boured  in  the  Eaft-Indies  and  Japan,  from  1541 
*°    155>2t    anc*   feveral   miflions   of  Capauchins 
were  fent  to  Africa  in  the  feventeenth  century. 
But  blind  zeal,  grofs  fuperftition,  and  infamous 
cruelties,  fo  marked  the  appearances  of  religion 
all  this  time,  that  the  profefTors  of  Chrifliauity 
needed   converfioc,    as  much  as  the    heathen 
world* 

A  few 


(    35    ) 

A.  few  pious  people  had  fled  from  the  general 
corruption,  and  lived  obfcurely  in  the  vallies  of 
Piedmont  and  Savoy,  who  were  like  the  feed  of 
the  church.  Some  of  them  were  now  and  then 
neceilitated  to  travel  into  other  parts,  where  they 
faithfully  teflified  againfl  the  corruptions  of  the 
times.  About  1369  Wickliffe  began  to  preach 
the  faith  in  England,  and  his  preaching  and 
writings  were  the  means  of  the  converfion  of 
great  numbers,  many  of  whom  became  excellent 
preachers;  and  a  work  was  begun  which  after 
wards  fpread  in  England,  Hungary,  Bohemia, 
Germany,  Switzerland,  and  many  other  places. 
John  Hufs  and  Jerom  of  Prague,  preached  boldly 
and  fuccefsfully  in  Bohemia,  and  the  adjacent 
parts.  In  the  following  century  Luther,  Calvin, 
Melan&on,  Bucer,  Martyr,  and  many  others, 
Hood  up  againft  all  the  reft  of  the  world;  they 
preached,  and  prayed,  and  wrote;  and  nations 
agreed  one  after  another  to  cafl  off  the  yoke  of 
popery,  and  to  embrace  the  do&rine  of  the 
gofpel. 

In  England,  epifcopal  tyranny  fucceeded  to 
popiQi  cruelty,  which,  in  the  year  1620,  obliged 
many  pious  people  to  leave  their  native  land 
and  fettle  in  America;  thefe  were  followed  by 
others  in  1629,  who  laid  the  foundations  of 
feveral  gofpel  churches,  which  have  incieafed 
f  amazingly 


amazingly  fince  that  time,  and  the  Redeemer  has 
fixed  his  throne  in  that  country,  where  but  a 
little  time  ago,  Satan  had  univerfal  dominion. 

In  1632,  Mr.  Elliot,  of  New-England,  a  very 
pious  and  zealous  minifter,  began  to  preach  to 
the  Indians,  among  whom  he  had  great  fuccefs; 
feveral churches  of  Indians  were  planted,  and  fome 
preachers  and  fchool-mafters  raifed  up  amongft 
them ;  fince  which  time  others  have  laboured 
amongft  them  with  fome  good  encouragement. 
About  the  year  1743,  Mr.  David  Brainerd  was 
fent  a  miffionary  to  fome  more  Indians,  where 
he  preached,  and  prayed,  and  after  fome  time  an 
extraordinary  work  of  converfion  was  wrought, 
and  wonderful  fuccefs  attended  his  miniftry. 
And  at  this  prefent  time,  Mr.  Kirkland  and  Mr. 
Sergeant  are  employed  in  the  fame  good  work, 
and  God  has  confiderably  blefled  their  labours. 

In  1706,  the  king  of  Denmark  fent  a  Mr. 
Ziegenbalg,  and  fome  others,  to  Tranquebar,  on 
the  Coromandel  coaft  in  the  Eaft-Indies,  who 
were  ufeful  to  the  natives,  fo  that  many  of  the 
heathens  were  turned  to  the  Lord.  The  Dutch 
Eaft-India  Company  likewife  having  extended 
their  commerce,  built  the  city  of  Batavia,  and  a 
church  was  opened  there;  and  the  Lord's  Supper 
\vas  adminiftered  for  the  firft  time,  on  the  3d  of 

January, 


C     37     ) 

January,  1621,  by  their  minifter  James  Hulzibos , 
from  hence  fome  minifters  were  fent  toAmboyna, 
who  were  very  fuccefsful.  A  feminary  of  learning 
was  ereded  at  Leyden,  in  which  minifters  and 
afliftants  were  educated,  under  the  renowned 
Walceus,  and  fome  years  a  great  number  were  fent 
to  the  Eaft,  at  the  Company's  expence,  fo  that  in 
a  little  time  many  thoufands  at  Formofa,  Malabar, 
Ternate,  Jaffanapatnam,  in  the  town  of  Columbia, 
at  Amboyna,  Java,  Banda,  MacafTar,  and  Malabar, 
embraced  the  religion  of  our  Lord  Jefus.  Chrift. 
The  work  has  decayed  in  fome  places,  but  they 
now  have  churches  in  Ceylon,  Sumatra,  Java, 
Amboyna,  and  fome  other  of  the  fpice  idands, 
and  at  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope,  in  Africa. 

But  none  of  the  moderns  have  equalled  the 
Moravian  Brethren  in  this  good  work;  they  have 
fent  miffions  to  Greenland,  Labrador,  and  feveral 
of  the  Weft-Indian  Iflands,  which  have  been 
blefled  for  good.  They  have  likewife  fent  to 
Abyffinia,  in  Africaf  but  what  fuccefs  they  have, 
had  I  cannot  tell. 


The  late  Mr,  Wefley  lately  made  an  effort  in 
the  Weft-Indies,  and  fome  of  their  minifters  are 
now  labouring  amongft  the  Caribbs  and  Negroes, 
and  I  have  feen  pleafing  accounts  of  their 
fuccefs, 


Fa.  SECT. 


SECT.  III. 

Containing  a  Survey  of  the  prefent   State  of  the 
World. 

IN  this  furvey  I  (hall  confider  the  world  as 
divided,  according  to  its  ufual  divifion,  into 
four  pans,  EUROPE,  ASIA,  AFRICA,  and 
AMERICA,  and  take  notice  of  the  extent  of  the 
feveral  countries,  their  population,  civilization, 
and  religion.  The  article  of  religion  I  fliall 
divide  into  Chriftian,  Jewifli,  Mahometan,  and 
Pagan ;  and  (hall  now  and  then  hint  at  the  parti 
cular  fed  of  them  that  prevails  in  the  places 
which  I  ihall  defcribe.  The  following  Tables 
will  exhibit  a  more  comprehenfive  view  of  what 
I  propofe,  than  any  thing  I  can  offer  on  the 
fubjea. 


IUROPE, 


Or       ' 


B."  £§,.    . 
-     « 


K> 


OO 
0 


CO 

O 

O 


CJJ  *0  O> 
O  O  O 
O  O  O 


CO  OC 
»    O 


Cn 

O 

c 


^  Oi  O\    -•  Ctf 

°°2^S 

ooooo 


111  I 


00 

Cn 

O 
O 

*b 
o 
o 


O  Cn    O  O    O 

O    O    O  O    O 

P   P   P  P   P 

"b  "o  o  o  o 

O    Q    O  O    O 

o  o   o  o  o 


The  Swedes  are  ferious  Lutherans, 
but  moft  of  the  Laplanders  are 
Pagans^  and  very  furftitio 


Protefta 
Protefta 
Catholi 
3apifts. 
Papifts. 


cs 


n 
n 


pe 


us 


,  of  many  denom 
,  and  Papifts. 
Deifts,  and  P 


roteftants 


Coun 


J 


w 


- 


o> 


e' 

O* 


S  "a  3  S  3  5  3  3 


ooooooo 
ooooooo 


oo 

«O 


ooooo 
ooooo 


CO    C*       M 


C« 


•^  O  O   O  co  oo    u*5  r^»oo   i***  "^  *o  co 

CO          ro  t%    fO  ci    *+    t~>    »-> 


"S    '    *      c 

S^.'S-S^ 


lyilSllllil 
Iillmmiii 


t*J 

CJ 


ft 

3 

If 
sf* 


coooooc.noc 
oooooooooooo 
oooooooooooo 


Ditto. 
Proteftants  of  feveral  deno 
Papifts  and  Proteftants. 


5?g?2 

5*2  <2.  5 
P  g»|-g>S 

«/>£.<" 
•      Eli"      ft> 

S?t-  3 
"  C  P- 

O£-^ 
S.  S  w 

C.  ^1  OQ 
^  ^  ft* 
2-  3  13 

s--w  ." 

5°  O 

r| 
PI 

ET  en 
<T)    " 

l-J       00 

pj    >^ 

^   ^ 

m   n 

•   ^ 

w 


u 
Di 


Pagans,  and  Moravian  Chriflians 
therans. 
tto 


so 


Vi 

•**    10 

It 

s* 

£1 

-O    * 

G    g 

w  § 

CO      i-«  "i^      vj  (-4      10      CO 

«    «    O  .3  ^    0-   6  -S  $  «    O 

o/5  ts  ^  'SLti  ti  ^  &,'cut: 


fts 


roteftau 


and 


fts. 
and 


ro 
« 

s 

O 

rC 
CTS 

S 

oii 

W3 
^ 

V 

<A 

2 

3 
*n 

5 

^d 

<U 
<L> 


ft, 
O 


g 


OOOOOOO 
ooooooo 


OOOOOOOQOO 


OOOOO 
oo 


oo 

OO 


O  O  O  O  O  O  O 
COOioO^O<N 
0000  «rfC7>r^ 


o  o  o  o  o 

~     **   O^   §    § 
tN     cT    O     cTcO* 


O«OOOOOO 

o  <o  -  «  co 


c»OOOO 

-M  o  o  o  o 

CO  c«    *O  •-    o 


S    &: 


•O    O    C<    cCOO 


oooooo 

O    O    O    O 
O  O 


O 


<L>    O< 

23 


mini 


E.  S. 
s      - 


Coun 


OJ 


o    o 

O    O 


5*  5*  5'  5'  3 

n    o   o    o    o 

o  o  o  o  o 

33333 


t_<    QJ    QJ 

O\    O  Cji  (Ln    O    O 


~          CP 
-i-OJOCQ 


OJ 

o  "b  "b  o  "     o 


o  o 

§§§§§§§§ 


i  > 

O  O  C 

P  P  9 

"o  o  o 


I 


Number  of 
Inhabitants. 


Ditto 
Ditto 


Ditt 
Mah 
Ditt 
Ditt 
Gre 
Ma 
Gre 
Greek 
Ditto. 


ans. 
hometans  and 
eks  and  Papi 
e  Chriftians,  Pa 


o 
ek  Chr 


pifts,  Sc  Mahomet 


Greeks 


Greek  Chnilia 
Ditto. 


CJ 

?o 
O 

"•o 
cq 


ti 


g 


VI 

S 

CL, 


o  o  o  o  o  o  o 


a 

o 

s 


us 


g  o  5  5  5  Q  3 


oooooooo 
oooooooo 

O^  O^  O^   r^»  O    C    O 
rT   CO  T£       CO    ^  O 


o  o  o  o  o 
o  o  o  o  o 
O^  r^  c  co 

l^-v   ^     ^*-t 


C2^05^k5£^^^?03 
rawcacTjoac^cjrGcjc 
£U£U£LO*CUCI»Q«P4Q4 

BSE5ESBSS 

OOOQOOOOO 
UUuoOOOuU 


a  a 

o  o 

o  <J 


C          G 


t>»   <N 


C  ^C  fG  ^fl 
O  'c-  co  co 


C    C    C! 


CO 


0  0  CO 
1-1     CO  -xt"  ro  »-• 


8  .S3  o 

-    u 

«  S  T2 


°.S'S 
o  c  S 

bO  O  S 


c  ^  z; 


mini! 


!"o.-c 

"L  o  • 


g-  9-g  5 

" 


£9 

<^     n\ 


0  5'  °  5' 


3  3 


r>  —  o   o   o   o 
o        o  o  o  O 

9       3333 


-, 

(AC/5 


D  5 

o  r> 

o  o 

3  3 


o    r 
O    0 

3  3 


*••  o 


oo  0000 

§8§§8§§§§§§i 


f^j     p^i 

p-  o 


O 

3* 


G  2, 


•*->      r 

3    3 


<u     ^  ^ 


I?  I 


c  o 
2  «-  ^r 

So  -2 
»-"  «I3 

O    <u    o 


i» 

ra 

PM 


<5  -a  en 
<u  c  s 

:/>    rt     rt 


c  •.- 


3 

CO 


n 

ii 


OOOOO 

ooooo 


o 

O 


O-- 

oja 


c    o 

ooo 
o   o   o 


d"  cT  cT'S  cT  o" 
o  o  o  .tS  o  o 


K   - 


o 
o 

00 


O    O    O    O    O  'O 
O    M"  O  ^O    r 


OO 


o         000000^*00 
o          o  so   o   o   o   '<r»^   o   o 

O  CO  «     C  CO     O     tO»-J    ^  O> 


« 

3 

o 

o 


w    ns 


<;     0 


-2  1 


2  o 


I! 


5? 


o 


Countrie 


•-i      t?      K> 

to    O    O 

O    O    OOJ    JOOo 

0000*^10 


o  o 


tocu    «    •* 


«>    b 


O^  Oi  O 
OOOO 
O  O  O 


OC4»>    CTj 


M       »M    C/l 


00 

COO 


o  c 


oooooo 

oooooooo 
o 


cooooo 


oo  o 

ooo 
ooo 


1:1. 


QTQ     rV    W     «V   £».*   X>"   r*'   r^*   ?*•    <-»•'    «^     r*  rtq 
^      r*J3-«-^<-»r-f<-i-r-»-^'«-»-r-»'r*s'.:3 

KOo°QoooOOOOD 

.«  '  3  * 

o 


D 

d. 


00 


3 

co 


- 


j 


u  «  U 

^  g  fe 

3-«  ^  * 

o  C 

<U  *~*  Q 

••  p  PS  C3 

E  2  cT  o  o"  o  o 


= 


- 

C3 

C 


8;3  s! 


5  S  Q  3  5  S  o  c£  5 


ooooooo 

OOOOOOO 


oo 

oO 


gl 

oJo 


o  o  o  o  o 

ooooooO 

O^^r^cooO 

*•  •-         r*  <          r» 

c»  o»    ci         CX>    o« 


o  c 

co 


co  o 


C  " 


100  ooc 


-o   § 
J«  *O 

^5 


^  o  s 


s 

°S^Ar-C3QU 

In]  n  ni 


l 


P- 


P 


o 

c 

p 

p 
p 


O 

p* 

3 

H 

n> 

»-» 

0) 


•cr 
o 

8 


r^~    flt> 
P     ?»• 


r> 

cr 


urn 


rr 

O> 


>  CO  Gd  & 

9C   P   o 
%    D    r 
O~  O    cu  C 
o         p   n 

P  *          £ 


l£)       »- 

O    O 


10     10 

Ln    o 


p- 


2 
§• 


to 

P 
b  ~ 


a  sr 

VI 


2 

o" 


o  o 


°3  ^ 

•^J   p)          co    - 

c  "b       P  r* 
o   o        p  « 
o  o       p.  2- 


S  J3 

UJ      VI 

P--: 


o" 

3 


o 

3 

cr 


O 
cr 


p 


t»3 


t-i- 


<" 

5" 


O  rt 

<D  <U 

•s  s 

^  o 

o  -5 


rt 

4-J 
I 
5 

i 

"O 


to 


a 


-d 
<u 


^  ^ 


S> 


::  s  •  .  .  <«  2  •  w  " 

§    S  2  S  S-  S  oS  S 

Q  bC   •*-'      C      •*-»        Q-|    b^)   4->        P-,  ^«> 


JS 


o 


ti       O 

2     8 


03       00 


oooooooo 
oooooooo 
o^  o^  o^  o^  o^  o^  o^  o^ 

>O    O    C    O    w    *$*  O    •-• 

«-i    O    *•'    •-«    O  OO    CO 


c: 

o 


o 

CU 

0, 


«     C4 


O    O 

CO   M    <O 


c 

en 


li 


O    O    O    »O  O 
^*VO  <«O  CO     »O 

d  •-•   -« 


<u 

r* 

2 

T3 
£ 


<u 
c^> 


o 

(T3 

f       • 

(5 

"Bo 


fl>         *-"     ^    *-» 

-    ig-s  K 

s« 

O     i 


•  •  rt         « 
^      rt  S 
'  o  z  glLs  « 

<^  S's-o.e-ss 


ii 


'  n 

H   <" 


?  iif 

g£2 

s-  1  3 

1  e:  sc  o  a  t 
~  a."<  g. 


2  2 


-     SL   .  .    a 


CT>X?OOOOOo>O 


a  a  a  a 

a  a  a  a 

I  I  I  I 

CJ~  O-  O-  <O 

3  ^  ^  3 


-w-S 


*J\    O    O 

000 


OOQioO 

oocoo 


oo 
oo 


o 
oo 


o 


CO 


5322222332  2 ff 

f-t*  r^  f*^  ^^  ^*  *""^  *^  r^  ^"^  ^^  *"**  VrQ 


OOOOOOO 


OOO 


H 


5 

05" 
o" 


ft! 


£>.-= 

,35 


§ 
(3 


o 
o 
o 

** 

CO 


S 

CO 


c:     3 

•— i        O 
CO 


W    G 


a 

£ 

o 

T3 

CJ 


O    O 

0 


o  o  o 

000 

«  o^  10 

ct    CO  CO 


o  o  o 
o  ^  o 

CO    O-iOO 


n> 

O 


cu 


§O    O  tn  OJ    Cft^    ^    O  4^- 
ooooooooo 


O    O    O 

o 


oo 


O  >**.    CCC_n     to    O  i-U'  CO     O 

ooooooooooooo 


<-n  1  c^   o  ot  o  a> 
ooooooooooooo 
oooooooo°cooc 


ooooooo 
ooooooo 


^oooo 
ooooo 


!^ 

***  "-i 


Number  of 
Inhabitants. 


?5-'  S* 

oo.oooooo§js»'fD 

P  g" 

<M      £•    3. 

3 

S             & 

<^ 

M      S 

ft)    O 

c 

3  ;:-: 

r/o 

P-  ^ 

^ 

^ 

c^^ 

•-» 

^ 

S    J> 

? 

o" 
a" 

• 

i 

B 

P- 

?: 

Cr. 

OJ 


:§» 


S  5- 


II 


o 

6 

•5 

a 

c 
.2 

U 


§ 

5 


j3 
u 


v 

§ 


li 


o  o     o     o 

O    *O    ^O       c* 
CO  tO    tO       d 


00  <g  § 

t>*     O 


00    0 


a 

o  

o  

•S«    ^0 

^       M       d    OO 

« 


1 

-S3 

»0 


rt         C2 


£    O    ° 


'4     ^**    **>*    ~^    ^*    »'~« 

I      I      II 


§0^  O 
o  o 


si:   1*1 


10  p 

^  "b  "b 

§o  o 

o  o 

•*   *  <f 

000 

§§§ 


CTQ  OP  OTQ 

P    A)    W 

BSD 

CA     CO     10 


M  to    to    O  OJ    v 
tn    ^.  ^.  ^.  „..  •-• 

a    a   a   a   & 


§ 


OJ    W    « 

o  o  o 


o  o  o  o  o 


o  o  o  o  o  o 


?»*   r+  r*  r*  «TJ 

r*    r*  «-»•  ^    Ji. 

O     O  O  O     53 

•    •  •  •    ST  cr 


o* 


r 


to 


a 


c  2 
o  .^ 

1 1 
•§< 

O  J2 


H3 

G 
rt 

«J      09 

C    C 

fi>3> 


«C 
"S 


c 
So 


a     s  s  G 


o 


Countri 


oooooooo 
oooooooo 
o  oo.®.0,0^0^0^ 
oooooooo 
oooooooo 


ooc    o 


co 


\^ 

§ 

ocT 


oooooooo 

^0000*0000 
"~     O  *& 


§ 


0000000 

OOOOOCNOO 


o 

CO 


«*-»crJ 


3  c  2  S  2 

^D     «-•-<    M 


S 

»- 


II 


o 


<• 


8/3  IS1 

5"  8  ?  3 


K>     O     OO^A     O 

O  Ot    O    O    0 


CO 
to 

O 


I 

OJ   »o   M      53 


Countrie 


O3  CJ    O    O    - 
Oi  O    O    O    O 


u> 

CO 

o 


p°-°  r  p 

o  o  o  ^  o 
o  o  o  o  o 

00000 


3    3 


8 

« 

£ 

"? 


8- 


Cn 


QO 

10 


«* 


Rf     3 


> 
J3 


*\* 

a 

•a 


w 


hO 


n* 

GO 


•a 

rtf 

•3 


6 
O 

* 
O 
w 


8OOOO 
o  o  o  o 

ci    O    CO  O    O 

s    "8" 


O 

K 


o 

VM 

O 

'5 


CO  O    CO  -V  O 

M  «    <O 


(O    M 


o  o  o  o 

ro  ^  rr  o> 


O  00 


c 

<n 

i 

ra 


10 

.     N 

^O     -  -* 

c  j 
^  C 


Bermuda 
LITTLE 


n   hi 


o 


Th 
Th 


g  «-c  c  3  «  5 
« (§  .5  S  ;B  z  8  s 

lllr'gjal 

^cStgiJiJM^ 

v    .    , 

0) 

J3 


e 
ar 


I     «     I 
I   -^ 

IH  1    I 


H 

nr 
n> 


H 


*§S 


o 

o 
S 


»-     C 

oo  o 


^\   4^     O 

o  o  o 


O    O    O 


a>  "    *-  o 
o  o  o  o 

O    O    O    O 


o  o 
o  o 
o  o 


-•      o  E. 


w  cr  w 

sis. 


S 


0? 

5- 
5 

£ 
« 

•1 

•-^  Ck) 

C 

|  a 

p| 


s  S 

ta    u 


P  OQ 

°s  g 

JM    "• 

or 

S.  a- 
8  3 

*?   w1* 

SQ 
^"S 

r^« 

2.  o 


i  s 

3»S 
«B| 

0 


| 

f 
CD 


S-S: 

2r-  C 

§-- 


Oi 


3 

o 

M 

22 


g  «• 

CM  5 


s> 


a 


"2.225-3222 
QeCQDQQoQQiS 


^2 


Q 


y 

as 


II 


§ 


ooooooooooo 

OOwOOOOO-OOO 

o   urj  r-*  to  »o  o   ^^voioo 


r^       t>x  K   o 


«    MI    co 


O    O^i  w    ^*  d 


O    O    •* 

CO  CO   CT 


O    10 

Cl 


m  et    o»    O    CO 

+4        CO     M       CO    W 


Countrie 


8,s 


•i  I  o  « -3  -3 

"2  &SP1  S^ 

3  S  "^  ^  C   . 


Illllllllll! 


Mill 


H  3  3-  •<  ~  D  c£*  ~'  O  W 

ril-rils^Eri 

5  £  s 


o    2 

o  2 


cr 
»i 


^      K>     10 

-.  00  ~ 
P 


4k    OO  O    O)  O 


o  oo  o 


OOOOOOOJi 

ooooooor 
o  o  o  o  o  o  o  • 


OO  O 


4k    0 
O    O 


Ot    «-•  U>     •-«  CW    •+    ^ 

o\  o  o  o»  o  o>o»  o^ 

§o  "b  o  "b  g  o  o 
6000005 
o  e  o  o  o  o  o  • 


w  =;• 


kj    ^3   t^    C^    C5    1^    ^_j 


J=-o:rr"o000E 


£  sr 

CA      H) 

•    3 


o 

cr 


P 

«B. 

5= 


s? 


Countrie 


2 


THIS,  as  nearly  as  I  can  obtain  information, 
is  the  (late  of  the  world;  though  in  many 
countries,  as  Turkey,  Arabia,  Great  Tartary, 
Africa,  and  America,  except  the  United  States, 
and  mod  of  the  Afiatic  Iflands,  we  have  no 
accounts  of  the  number  of  inhabitants,  that  can 
be  relied  on.  I  have  therefore  only  calculated 
the  extent,  and  counted  a  certain  number  on  an 
average  upon  a  fquare  mile;  in  fome  countries 
more,  and  in  others  lefs,  according  as  circum- 
fiances  determine.  A  few  general  remarks  upon 
at  will  conclude  this  fe£ion. 


,  The  inhabitants  of  the  world  according 
to  this  calculation,  amount  to  about  feven  hun 
dred  and  thirty-one  millions;  four  hundred  and 
twenty  millions  of  whom  ate  ftill  in  pagan  dark- 
nefs  ;  an  hundred  and  thirty  millions  the  followers 
of  Mahomet;  an  hundred  millions  catholics; 
forty-four  rniHions  proteftants  ;  thirty  millions  of 
the  greek  and  armenian  churches,  and  perhaps 
feven  millions  of  jews.  It  muR  undoubtedly 
(Irike  every  confiderate  mindt  what  a  vafl  pro 
portion  of  the  fons  of  Adam  there  are,  who  yet 
remain  in  the  moil  deplorable  ftate  of  heathen 
darknefs,  without  any  means  of  knowing  the  true 
God,  except  what  are  afforded  them  by  the  works 

of 


(    63    ) 

of  nature ;  and  utterly  deftitute  of  the  knowledge 
of  the  gofpel  of  Chrift,  or  of  any  means  of 
obtaining  it.  In  many  of  thefe  countries  they 
have  no  written  language,  confequently  no  Bible, 
and  are  only  led  by  the  moft  childiih  cuftoms  and 
traditions.  Such,  for  inftance,  are  all  tlfe  middle 
and  back  parts  of  North  America,  the  inland 
parts  of  South.  America,  the  South-Sea  Iflands, 
New  Holland,  New  Zealand,  New  Guinea;  and 
I  may  add  Great  Tartary,  Siberia,  Samojedia, 
and  the  other  parts  of  Afia  contiguous  to  the 
irozen  fea ;  the  greateft  part  of  Africa,  the  ifland 
of  Madagafcar,  and  many  places  befide.  In 
many  of  thefe  parts  alfo  they  are  cannibals,  feed 
ing  upon  the  flefh  of  their  (lain  enemies,  with  the 
greateft  brutality  and  eagernefs.  The  truth  of 
this  was  afcertained,  beyond  a  doubt,  by  the  late 
eminent  navigator,  Cooke,  of  the  NewZealanders, 
and  fome  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  weftern  coaft 
of  America.  Human  facrifices  are  alfo  very  fre 
quently  offered,  fo  that  fcarce  a  week  eiapfes  with 
out  inftances  of  this  kind.  They  are  in  general 
poor,  barbarous,  naked  pagans,  as  deftitute  of 
civilization,  as  they  are  of  true  religion. 

SECONDLY,  Barbarous  as  thefe  poor  heathens 
are,  they  appear  to  be  as  capable  of  knowledge  as 
we  are;  and  in  many  places,  at  leaft,  have  difco- 
yered  uncommon  genius  and  traftablenefs ;  and 

I  greatly 


(     64     ) 

I  greatly  queftion  whether  moft  of  the  barbarities 
pra&iced  by  them,  have  not  originated  in  fome 
real  or  fuppofed  affront,  and  are  therefore,  more 
properly,  ads  of  felf-defence,  than  proofs  of  in 
human  and  blood-thirfty  difpofitions. 

THIRDLY,  In  other  parts,  where  they  have  a 
written  language,  as  in  the  Eaft-Indies,  China, 
Japan,  Sec.  they  know  nothing  of  the  gofpel. 
The  jefuits  indeed  once  made  many  converts  to 
popery  among  the  Chinefe ;  but  their  higheft  aim 
ieemed  to  be  to  obtain  their  good  opinion;  for 
though  the  converts  profeffed  themfelves  Chrif- 
tians,  yet  they  were  allowed  to  honour  the  image 
of  CONFUCIUS  their  great  law-giver;  and  at  length 
their  ambitious  intrigues  brought  upon  them  the 
difpleafure  of  government,  which  terminated  in 
the  fuppreffion  of  the  million,  and  almoft,  if  not 
entirely,  of  the  Chriftian  name.  It  is  alfo  a  me 
lancholy  fad,  that  the  vices  of  Europeans  have 
been  communicated  wherever  they  themfelves 
have  been ;  fo  that  the  religious  ftate  of  even  hea 
thens  has  been  rendered  worfe  by  intercourfe 
with  them! 

FOURTHLY,  A  very  great  proportion  of  Afia  and 
Africa,  with  fome  part  of  Europe,  are  Mahometans; 
and  thofe  in  Perfia,  who  are  of  the  feel  of  Halt, 
are  the  moft  inveterate  enemies  to  the  Turks; 

and 


and  they  in  return  abhor  the  Perfians,  The 
Africans  are  fome  of  the  rnoft  ignorant  of  all  the 
mahometans ;  efpecially  the  Arabs,  who  are  fcat- 
tered  through  ail  the  northern  parts  of  Africa,  and 
live  upon  the  depredations  which  they  are  con 
tinually  making  upon  their  neighbours. 

FIFTHLY,  In  refpecl  to  thofe  who  bear  the 
Chriftian  name,  a  very  great  degree  of  ignorance 
and  immorality  abounds  amongil  them.  There 
are  Chriftians,  fo  called,  of  the  greek  and  armenian 
churches,  in  all  the  mahometan  countries;  but 
they  are,  if  poflible,  more  ignorant  and  vicious 
than  the  mahometans  thernfelves  The  Georgian 
Chriftians,  who  are  near  the  Cafpian  Sea,  main 
tain  thernfelves  by  felling  their  neighbours,  rela 
tions,  and  children,  for  flaves  to  the  Turks  and 
Perfians,  And  it  is  remarked,  that  if  any  of  the 
greeks  of  Anatolia  turn  rnufTulmen,  the  Turks 
never  fet  any  ftore  by  them,  on  account  of  their 
being  fo  much  noted  for  diiTimulation  and  hypo- 
crify.  It  is  well  known  that  moft  of  the  members 
of  the  greek  church  are  very  ignorant.  Papifts 
alfo  are  in  general  ignorant  of  divine  things,  and 
very  vicious.  Nor  do  the  bulk  of  the  church  of 
England  much  e*ceed  them,  either  in  knowledge 
or  holinefs;  and  many  errors,  and  much  loofenefs 
of  conduct,  are  to  be  found  amongft  diflenters  of 
all  denominations.  The  luthcrans  in  Denmark, 

are 


(    66    ) 

are  much  on  a  par  with  the  ecclefiaftics  in  Eng 
land;  and  the  face  of  moft  Chriftian  countries 
prefects  a  dreadful  fcene  of  ignorance,  hypocrify, 
and  profligacy.  Various  baneful,  and  pernicious 
errors  appear  to  gain  ground,  in  almoft  every 
part  of  Chriflendom ;  the  truths  of  the  gofpel, 
and  even  the  gofpel  itfelf,  are  attacked,  and  every 
method  that  the  enemy  can  invent  is  employed 
to  undermine  the  kingdom  of  our  Lord  Jelus 
Chrift. 

All  thefe  things  are  loud  calls  to  Chriilians, 
and  efpecially  to  mimfters,  to  exert  themfelves  to 
the  utmoft  in  their  feveral  fpheres  of  aftion,  and 
to  try  to  enlarge  them  as  much  as  poilible. 


SECT. 


SECT.  IV. 

The  Practicability  of  fomf  thing  being  done,  more  than 
what  is  done,  for  the  Converjion  of  the  Heathen. 

THE  impediments  in  the  way  of  carrying 
the  gofpei  among  the  heathen  muft  arile,  I 
think,  from  one  or  other  of  the  following  things; 
—either  their  diflance  from  us,  their  barbarous 
and  favage  manner  of  living,  the  danger  of  being 
killed  by  them,  the  difficulty  of  procuring  the 
neeeflaries  of  life,  or  the  unintelligiblenefs  of  their 
Languages. 

FIRST,  As  to  their  diflance  from  us,  whatever 
ohjeaions  might  have  been  made  on  that  account 
before  the  invention  of  the  manner's  compafs, 
nothing  can  be  alledged  for  it,  with  any  colour  of 
plaufibility  in  the  prefent  age.  Men  can  now  fail 
with  as  much  certainty  through  the  Great  South 
Sea,  as  they  can  through  the  Mediterranean,  or 
any  lefler  Sea.  Yea,  and  providence  feems  in  a 
manner  to  invite  us  to  the  trial,  as  there  are  to  our 
knowledge  trading  companies,  wbofe  commerce 
lies  in  many  of  the  places  where,  thefe  barbarians 

dwell. 


dwell.  At  one  time  or  other  fiiips  are  fent  to 
rifit  places  of  more  recent  difcovery,  and  to 
explore  parts  the  moft  unknown  j  and  every  frefh 
account  of  their  ignorance,  or  cruelty,  fliould  call 
forth  our  pity,  and  excite  us  to  concur  with  pro 
vidence  in  feeking  their  eternal  good.  Scripture 
likewife  feems  to  point  out  this  method,  Surely  the 
JJles  Jhall  wait  for  me;  the  flips  ef  Tarftijh  frft,  to 
bring  my  Jons  from  far ,  their  ftlver,  and  their  gold  with 
them,  unto  the  name  of  the  Lord,  thy  God.  Jfai.  Ix.  9. 
This  feems  to  imply  that  in  the  time  of  the 
glorious  increafe  of  the  church,  in  the  latter  days, 
(of  which  the  whole  chapter  is  undoubtedly  a 
prophecy,)  commerce  fliall  fubferve  the  fpread  of 
the  gofpel.  The  Ihips  of  Tarftiifli  were  trading 
veflels,  which  made  voyages  for  traffic  to  various 
parts ;  thus  much  therefore  muft  be  meant  by  it, 
that  navigation,  efpecially  that  which  is  commercial, 
fliali  be  one  great  mean  of  carrying  on  the  work 
of  God ;  and  perhaps  it  may  imply  that  there 
{hall  be  a  very  confiderable  appropriation  of 
\vealtb  to  that  purpofe. 

SECONDLY,  As  to  their  uncivilized,  and  bar 
barous  way  of  living,  this  can  be  no  objection  to 
any,  except  tliofe  whofe  love  of  eafe  renders 
them  unwilling  to  expofe  themfelvcs  to  incon- 
veniencies  for  the  good  of  others, 


It 


(    69    ) 

It  was  no  objection  to  the  apoftles  and  their 
fucceffors,  who  went  among  the  barbarous  Ger 
man;  and  Gauls,  and  dill  more  barbarous  Britons! 
They  did  not  wait  for  the  ancient  inhabitants  of 
thefe  countries,  to  be  civilized,  before  they  could 
be  chriftianized,  but  went  (imply  with  the  doctrine 
of  the  crofs;  and  TEFTULLIAN  could  boaft  that 
"  thofe  parts  of  Britain  which  were  proof  againft 
the  Roman  armies,  were  conquered  by  the  gofpel 
of  Chrifl  " — It  was  no  objection  to  an  ELLIOT,  or 
a  BRAINERD,  in  later  times*  They  went  forth, 
and  encountered  every  difficulty  of  the  kind,  and 
found  that  a  cordial  reception  of  the  gofpel  pro 
duced  thofe  happy  effeds  which  the  longed  inter- 
courfe  with  Europeans,  without  it  could  never 
accompliih.  It  is  no  objection  to  commercial 
men.  It  only  requires  that  we  (hould  have  as 
much  love  to  the  fouls  of  our  fellow-creatures, 
and  fellow  finners,  as  they  have  for  the  profits 
arifing  from  a  few  otter-fkins,  and  all  thefe  diffi 
culties  would  be  eafily  furmounted. 

After  all,  the  uncivilized  ftate  of  the  heathen, 
inftead  of  affording  an  objedion  againft  preaching 
the  gofpel  to  them,  ought  to  furniih  an  argument 
for  it.  Can  we  as  men,  or  as  chriftians,  hear  that 
a  great  part  of  our  fellow  creatures,  whofe  fouls 
are  as  immortal  as  ours,  and  who  are  as  capable 
as  ourfelves,  of  adorning  the  gofpel,  and  con>- 

K  a  tributing 


(     70    ) 

tributing  by  their  preaching,  •writings,  or  practices 
to  the  glory  of  our  Redeemer's  name,  and  the 
good  of  bis  church,  are  inveloped  in  ignorance 
and  barbarifm?  Can  we  hear  that  they  are  with~ 
out  the  gofpel,  without  government,  without  laws, 
and  without  arts,  and  fciences;  and  not  exert 
ourfelves  to  introduce  amongft  them  the  fenti- 
ments  of  men,  and  of  Chriftians?  Would  not  the 
fpread  of  the  gofpel  be  the  mod  effectual  mean 
of  their  civilization  ?  Would  not  that  make  them 
ufeful  members  of  fociety?  We  know  that  fuch 
effects  did  in  a  meafure  follow  the  afore-mei:tioned 
efforts  of  Elliot,  Brainerd,  and  others  amongft  the 
American  Indians;  and  if  fimiiar  attempts  were 
made  in  other  parts  of  the  world,  and  fucceeded 
with  a  divine  bleffing  (which  we  have  every  rea- 
fon  to  think  they  would)  might  we  not  expect  to 
fee  able  Divines,  or  read  well-conducted  treatifes 
in  defence  of  the  truth,  even  amongft  thofe  who 
at  prefent  feem  to  be  fcaicely  human?. 

THIRDLY,  In  refpeft  to  the  danger  of  being  killed 
by  them,  it  is  true  that  whoever  does  go  muil  put 
his  life  in  his  hand,  and  not  confult  with  flefh 
and  blood;  but  do  not  the  goodnefs  of  the  caufe, 
the  duties  incumbent  on  us  as  the  creatures  of 
God,  and  Chriftians,  and  the  perifliing  ftate  of 
our  fellow  men,  loudly  call  upon  us  to  venture 
all  and  ufe  every  warrantable  exertion  for  their 

benefit? 


(     7'     ) 

benefit?  PAUL  and  BARNABAS,  who  hazarded  their 
lives  for  the  name  of  our  Lord  jfefu*  Chrifl,  were  not 
blamed  as  being  rafli,  but  commended  for  fo 
doing,  while  JOHN  MARK  who  through  timidity 
of  mind  deferted  them  in  their  perilous  under 
taking,  was  branded  with  cenfure.  After  all,  as  has 
been  already  obferved,  I  greatly  queftion  whether 
moft  of  the  barbarities  practiced  by  the  favages 
upon  thofe  who  have  vifited  them*  have  not 
originated  in  fome  real  or  fuppofed  affront,  and 
were  therefore,  more  properly,  ads  of  felf-defence, 
than  proofs  of  ferocious  difpofitions  No  wonder 
if  the  imprudence  of  failors  ihould  prompt  them 
to  offend  the  fimple  favage,  and  the  offeree  be  re- 
fented;  but  Elliot*  Brainerd,  and  the  Moravian 
•mijjtonaries*  have  been  very  feldom  molefted.  Nay, 
in  general  the  heathen  have  (hewed  a  willingnefs 
to  hear  the  word;  and  have  principally  exprefled 
their  hatred  of  Chriftianity  on  account  of  the 
vices  of  nominal  Chriftians. 

FOURTHLY,  As  to  the  difficulty  of  procuring  the 
neceflarie*  oj  life*  this  would  not  be  fo  great  as 
may  appear  at  firft  fight;  for  though  we  could 
not  procure  European  food,  yet  we  might  pro 
cure  fuch  as  the  natives  of  thofe  countries  which 
we  vifit,  fubfift  upon  them/elves.  And  this  would 
only  be  palling  through  what  we  have  virtually 
engaged  in  by  entering  on  the  minifterial  office. 

A  Cbriflian 


(     7»     ) 

A  Chriftian  minifter  is  a  perfon  who  in  a  peculiar 
fenle  is  not  his  own ;  he  is  thefervant  of  God,  and 
therefore  ought  to  be  wholly  devoted  to  him. 
By  entering  on  that  facred  office  he  folemnly  un 
dertakes  to  be  always  engaged,  as  much  as  poffible, 
in  the  Lord's  work,  and  not  to  chufe  his  own 
pleafure,  or  employment,  or  purfue  the  miniftry 
as  a  fomeihing  that  is  to  fubferve  his  own  ends, 
or  interefts,  or  as  a  kind  of  bye-work.  He  engages 
to  go  where  God  pleafes,  and  to  do,  or  endure 
what  he  fees  fit  to  command,  or  call  him  to,  in 
the  exercife  of  his  function.  He  virtually  bids 
farewell  to  friends,  pleafures,  and  comforts,  and 
Hands  in  readinefs  to  endure  the  greatefl  fufier- 
ings  in  the  work  of  his  Lord,  and  Matter.  It  is 
inconfiftent  for  minifters  to  pleafe  themfelves  with 
thoughts  of  a  numerous  auditory,  cordial  friends, 
a  civilized  country,  legal  protection,  affluence, 
fplendor,  or  even  a  competency.  The  flights, 
and  hatred  of  men,  and  even  pretended  friends, 
gloomy  prifons,  and  tortures,  the  fociety  of  bar 
barians  of  uncouth  fpeech,  miferable  accommo 
dations  in  wretched  wildernefles,  hunger,  and 
thirft,  nakednefs,  wearinefs,  and  painfulnefs,  hard 
work,  and  but  little  worldly  encouragement, 
fhould  rather  be  the  objects  of  theii  expe<5lation. 
Thus  the  apoftles  a&ed,  in  the  primitive  times, 
and  endured  hardnefs,  as  good  foldiers  of  Jefus 
Chrift;  and  though  we  living  in  a  civilized  coun- 

try 


(     73    ) 

tiy  where  Chriftianity  is  protected  by  law,  are 
not  called  to  fuffer  thefe  things  while  we  continue 
here,  yet  I  queftion  whether  all  are  juftified  in 
/laying  here,  while  fo  many  are  perifliing  without 
means  of  grace  in  other  lands.  Sure  I  am  that 
it  is  entirely  contrary  to  the  fpirit  of  the  gofpel, 
for  its  mmifters  to  enter  upon  it  from  interefted 
motives,  or  with  great  worldly  expectations .  On 
the  contrary  the  commiffion  is  a  fufficient  call  to 
them  to  venture  all,  and,  like  the  primitive 
Chriftians,  go  every  where  preaching  the  gofpel. 

It  might  be  neceflary,  however,  for  two,  at 
leaft,  to  go  together,  and  in  general  I  fhould 
think  it  bed  that  they  mould  be  married  men, 
and  to  prevent  their  time  from  being  employed 
in  procuring  neceffaries,  two,  or  more,  other 
perfons,  with  their  wives  and  families,  might  alfo 
accompany  them,  who  mould  be  wholly  em 
ployed  in  providing  for  them.  In  mod  countries 
it  would  be  neceflary  for  them  to  cultivate  a  little 
fpot  of  ground  juft  for  their  fupport,  which  would 
be  a  refource  to  them,  whenever  their  fupplies 
failed.  Not  to  mention  the  advantages  they 
would  reap  from  each  others  company,  it  would 
take  off  the  enormous  expence  which  has  always 
attended  undertakings  of  this  kind,  the  firft  ex- 
pence  being  the  whole ;  for  though  a  large  colony 
needs  lupport  for  a  confideiable  time,  yet  fo 

froall 


(    74    ) 

finall  a  number  would,  upon  receiving  the  firft 
crop,  maintain  themfelves.  They  would  have 
the  advantage  of  choofing  their  fituation,  their 
wants  would  be  few ;  the  women,  and  even  the 
children,  would  be  neceflary  for  domeftic  pur- 
pofes;  and  a  few  articles  of  flock,  as  a  cow  or 
two,  and  a  bull,  and  a  few  other  cattle  of  both 
fexes,  a  very  few  utenfils  of  hufbandry,  and  fome 
corn  to  fow  their  land,  would  be  fufficieot.  Thofe 
who  attend  the  miflionaries  fhould  underfland 
hufbandry,  fifhing,  fowling.  Sec.  and  be  provided 
with  the  neceflary  implements  for  thefe  purpofes. 
Indeed  a  variety  of  methods  may  be  thought  of, 
and  when  once  the  work  is  undertaken,  many 
tilings  will  fuggefl  themfelves  to  us,  of  which  we 
at  prefent  can  form  no  idea. 

FIFTHLY,  As  to  learning  their  languages,  the 
fame  means  would  be  found  neceflary  here  as  in 
trade  between  different  nations.  In  fome  cafes 
interpreters  might  be  obtained,  who  might  be 
employed  for  a  time;  and  where  thefe  were  not 
to  be  found,  the  miffionaries  muft  have  patience, 
and  mingle  with  the  people,  till  they  have  learned 
fo  much  of  their  language  as  to  be  able  to  com 
municate  their  ideas  to  them  in  it  It  is  well 
fcnown  to  require  no  very  extraordinary  talents 
to  learn,  in  the  fpace  of  a  year,  or  two  at  moft, 
the  language  of  any  people  upon  earth,  fo  much 

of 


(    75    ) 

of  it  at  leaft,  as  to  be  able  to  convey  any 
merits  we  wifh  to  then  under  {landings. 


The  Miifionaries  mud  be  men  of  great  piety 
prudence,  courage,  and  forbearance;  of  undoubted 
orthodoxy  in  their  fentiments,  and  muft  enten 
with  all  their  hearts  into  the  fpirit  of  their  mif- 
fion;  they  muft  be  willing  to  leave  all  the  com 
forts  of  life  behind  them,  and  to  encounter  a 
the  hardihips  of  a  torrid,  or  a  frigid  climate,  an 
uncomfortable  manner  of  living,  and  every  other 
inconvenience  that  can  attend  this  undertaking. 
Clothing,  a  few  knives,  powder  and  thot,  fiihmg- 
tackle,  and  the  articles  of  hufbandiy  above-men 
tioned,  mud  be  provided  for  them;  and  when 
arrived  at  the  place  of  their  deftination,  their  fiift 
bufinefs  muft  be  to  gain  fomc  acquaintance  with 
the  language  of  the  natives*  (for  which  purpofc 
two  would  be  better  than  one,)  and  by  all  lawful 
means  to  endeavour  to  cultivate  a  friendll.ip  with 
them,  and  as  foon  as  poffible  let  them  know  the 
errand  for  which  they  were  fent.  They  muft  en 
deavour  to  convince  them  that  it  was  their  good 
alone,  which  induced  them  to  forfake  their  friends, 
and  all  the  comforts  of  their  native  country. 
They  muft  be  very  careful  not  to  refent  injuries 
\vhich  may  be  offered  to  them,  nor  to  think 
highly  of  themfelves,  fo  as  to  defpife  the  poor 
heathens,  and  by  thofe  means  lay  a  foundation 

L  for 


for  their  refentment,  or  rcjeaion  of  the  gofpcl. 
They  muft  lake  every  opportunity  of  doing  them 
good,  and  labouring,  arid  travelling,  night  and 
day,  they  mud  inftrud,  exhort,  and  rebuke,  with 
all  long  fuffering,  and  anxious  defne  for  themf 
and,  above  all,  mud  be  inflant  in  ptayer  for  the 
effuflon  of  the  Holy  Spirit  upon  the  people  of 
their  charge.  Let  but  miflionaries  of  the  above 
defcription  engage  in  the  work,  and  we  Qiall  fee 
that  it  is  not  impracticable. 

It  might  likewife  be  of  importance,  if  God 
fliould  blefs  their  labours,  for  them  to  encourage 
any  appearances  of  gifts  amongd  the  people  of 
their  charge ;  if  fuch  ftiould  be  raifed  up  many- 
advantages  would  be  derived  from  their  know 
ledge  of  the  language,  and  cuftoms  of  their  coun 
trymen  ;  and  their  change  of  conduct  would  give 
great  weight  to  their  ininiftrations. 


SECT; 


(    77    ) 


SECT.  V, 

An  Enquiry  Into  the  Duty  of  Chriftians  in  general^  ond 
what  Means  ought  to  be  ujed*  in  order  to  promote 
Ms  WorL 

IF  the  prophecies  concerning  the  increafe  of 
Chrift's  kingdom  be  true,  and  if  what  has 
been  advanced,  concerning  the  commiiTion  given 
by  him  to  his  difciples  being  obligatory  on  us, 
be  juft,  it  muft  be  inferred  that  all  Chtiftians 
ought  heartily  to  concur  with  God  in  promoting 
his  glorious  defigns,  for  he  that  is  joined  to  the 
Lord  i$  one  fpirit. 

One  of  the  firft,  and  mod  important  of  thofe 
duties  which  are  incumbent  upon  us,  is  fervent 
end  united  prayer,  However  the  influence  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  may  be  fet  at  nought,  and  run  down 
by  many,  it  will  be  found  upon  trial,  that  all 
means  which  we  can  ufe,  without  h%  will  be  in 
effectual.  If  a  temple  is  raifed  for  God  in  the 
heathen  world,  it  will  not  be  by  might,  nor  by 
power,  nor  by  the  authority  of  the  magjftrate,  or 
the  eloquence  of  the  orator;  but  by  my  Spirit,  faith 
the  Lord  of  Hofls.  We  muft  therefore  be  in  real 
earned  in  iupplicating  his  fclcffing  upon  our 
jabours. 

L*  It 


(     78     ) 

It  5s  rcprefented  in  the  prophets,  that  when 
there  fliail  be  A  great  mourning  in  the  land,  as  the 
mourning  of  Hadadrimmon  in  the  volley  of  Megiddon, 
end  every  family  Jhatt  mourn  opart,  end  their  wives 
apart*  it  Oiall  all  follow  upon  a  fyint  of  grate,  and 
fupplication.  And  when  thefe  things  (hall  take 
place,  it  is  protaifed  that  there  Jhall  be  a  fountain 
opened  for  the  hvufe  of  David,  and  for  the  inhabitants 
of  Jerufalem,  forfin^  and  for  uncle  an  jief^,— and  that 
the  idols  Jhall  be  dejlroyed,  and  the  falfe  prophets 
ajhamed  of  their  profeffion.  Zech.  xn.  10.  14.— 
xiii.  i.  6  This  prophefy  feems  to  teach  that 
when  there  fhail  be  an  univerfai  conjundion  in 
fervent  prayer,  and  all  fhail  ePeem  Zion's  welfare 
as  their  own,  then  copious  influences  of  the 
Spirit  fhall  be  (bed  upon  the  churches,  which 
like  a  purifying  fountain  (hail  clean fe  the  fervants 
of  the  Lord.  Nor  (hall  this  cleanfing  influence 
flop  here;  all  dd  idolatrous  prejudices  fhall  be 
rooted  out,  and  tiuth  prevail  Ib  glorioufly  that 
falfe  teachers  Ihall  be  fo  athamed  as  rather  to 
wifli  to  be  clafTed  with  obfcure  herdfmen,  or  the 
meajieft  peafants,  than  bear  the  ignominy  at 
tendant  on  their  dete&ion. 

The  moft  glorious  worts  of  grace  that  have 
ever  took  pla  e,  have  been  in  anlwer  to  prayer; 
and  it  is  in  this  way,  we  have  the  greatefl  rea- 
ion  to  fuppofe,  that  the  glorious  out-pouring  of 

the 


(    79    ) 

the   Spirit,    which  we    expecl   at  laft,    will  b* 
be  flowed. 

With  refpe&  to  our  own  immediate  connec 
tions,  we  have  within  thefe  few  years  been  fa 
voured  with  fome  tokens  For  good,  granted  in 
anfwer  to  prayer,  which  (hou)d  encourage  us  to 
perfift,  and  increafe  in  that  important  duty.  I 
truft  out  monthly  prayer-meeting*  for  the  fuccefs  of 
the  gofpel  have  not  been  in  vaiii.  il  is  true  & 
want  of  importunity  too  generally  attends  our 
prayers;  yet  unimportunate,  and  feeble  as  they 
have  been,  it  is  to  be  believed  that  God  has 
heard,  and  in  a  meafuie  anTwered  them.  The 
churches  that  have  engaged  in  the  pradice  have 
in  general  fince  that  time  been  evidently  on  the 
increafe;  fome  controverfies  which  have  long; 
perplexed  and  divided  the  church,  are  more 
clearly  ftated  than  ever;  there  are  calls  to  preach 
the  gofpel  in  many  places  where  it  has  not  been 
ufually  publiQied;  yea,  a  glorious  door  is  opened, 
and  is  likely  to  be  opened  wider  and  wider,  by 
the  fpread  of  civil  and  religious  liberty,  accom 
panied  alfo  by  a  diminution  of  the  fpirit  of  po 
pery;  a  noble  effort  has  been  made  to  abolifh  the 
inhuman  Slave-Trade,  and  though  at  prefent  it 
has  not  been  lo  fuccefsful  as  might  be  wifhed,  yet 
it  is  to  be  hoped  it  will  be  perfevered  in,  till  it  is 
accompliflied.  In  the  mean  time  it  is  a  fatisfac- 

tiou 


tion  to  confider  that  the  late  defeat  of  the  aboliti 
on  of  the  Slave-Trade  has  proved  the  occafion  of  a 
praife  worthy  effort  to  introduce  a  free  fettle- 
ment,  at  Sierra  Leona^  on  the  coaft  of. Africa;  an 
effort  which,  if  fucceeded  with  a  divine  bleffing., 
not  only  promifes  to  open  a  way  for  honourable 
commerce  with  that  extenfive  country ,  and  for 
the  civilization  of  its  inhabitants,  but  may  prove 
the  happy  mean  of  introducing  amongft  them 
the  gofpel  of  our  Lord  Jefus  Chriit. 

Thefe  are  events  that  ought  not  to  be  over 
looked  ;  they  are  not  to  be  reckoned  fmall  things  | 
and  yet  perhaps  they  are  fmall  compared  with 
what  might  have  been  expected,  if  aJl  had  cor 
dially  entered  into  the  fpirit  of  the  propofaJ,  fo 
as  to  have  made  the  caufe  of  Chrift  their  own,  or 
in  other  words  to  have  been  fo  felicitous  about 
it,  as  if  their  own  advantage  depended  upon  its 
fuccefs  If  an  holy  folicitude  had  pi$vailed  in 
all  the  alTemblies  of  Chriftians  in  behalf  of  their 
Redeemer's  kingdom,  we  might  probably  have 
feert  before  now,  not  only  an  open  door  for  the 
gofpel,  but  many  running  to  and  fro^  end  knowledge 
increased;  or  a  diligent  ufe  of  thofe  means  which 
providence  has  put  in  our  power,  accompanied 
with  a  greater  bleffing  thau  ordinary  from 
Leavea, 

Many 


Many  can  do  nothing  but  pray,  and  prayer  is 
perhaps  the  only  thing  in  which  ChriRians  of  all 
denominations  can  cordially,  and  unrefervedly 
unite;  but  in  this  we  may  all  be  one,  and  in  this 
the  drifted  unanimity  ought  to  prevail.  Were 
the  whole  body  thus  animated  by  one  foul,  with 
what  pleafure  would  Chriftians  attend  on  all  die 
duties  of  religion,  and  with  what  delight  would 
their  minifters  attend  on  all  the  bufiuefs  of  their 
calling. 

We  mud  not  be  contented  however  with  pray 
ing,  without  exerting  ourfelves  in  the  vfe  of  means  for 
the  obtaining  of  thofe  things  we  pray  for.  Were 
the  children  of  light,  but  as  wife  in  their  generation  us 
the  children  of  this  world^  they  would  ftretch  every 
nerve  to  gain  fo  glorious  a  prize,  nor  ever 
imagine  that  it  was  to  be  obtained  in  any  other 
way. 

When  a  trading  company  have  obtained  their 
charter  they  ufualiy  go  to  its  utmoR  limits;  and 
their  (locks,  their  ihips,  their  officers,  and  men 
sre  fo  chofen,  and  regulated,  as  to  be  likely  to 
anmer  their  purpofe;  but  they  do  not  flop  here, 
for  encouraged  by  the  profpecl  of  fuccefs,,  they 
ufe  every  effort,  cad  their  bread  upon  the  waters, 
cultivate  friendship  with  every  one  from  whof* 
Cniorraatioa  they  expe&  the  lead  advantage.  They 

creft 


(    8*    ) 

crofs  the  wideft  and  mod  tempeftuous  fcas,  and 
encounter  the  maft  unfavourable  climates ;  they 
introduce  themfelves  into   the  moft   Barbarous 
nations,  and  fometimes  undergo  the  moft  affe&ing 
hardships;   their  minds   continue  in  a  (late  of 
anxiety,  and  fufpence,  and  a  longer  delay  than 
ufual  in  the  arrival  of  their  vefTels  agitates  them 
with  a  thoufand  changeful  thoughts,  and  fore- 
boding  apprehenfions,  which  continue  till  the 
rich  returns  are  fafe  arrived  in  port.     But  why 
thefe  fears?  Whence  all  thefe  difquietudes,  and 
this  labour?  Is  it  not  becaufe  their  fouis  enter 
into  the  fpirit  of  the  project,  and  their  happineffc 
in  a  manner  depends  on  its  fuccefs? — Chriftians, 
are  a  body  whofe  trueft  intereft  lies  in  the  exalt 
ation  of  the  Meffiah's  kingdom.    Their  charted 
is  very  extenfive,  their  encouragements  exceeding 
great,  and  the  returns  pro  mi  fed  infinitely  fupeiior 
to  all  the  gains  of  the  moft  lucrative  fellowfhip. 
Let  then  every  one  in  his  Ration  confider  himfelf 
as  bound  to  ad  with  all  his  might,  and  in  every 
ppflible  way  for  God. 

Suppofe  a  company  of  ferious  Cbriftian*, 
minifters  and  private  pcrfons,  were  to  form 
themfelves  into  a  fociety,  and  make  a  number  of 
rules  refpecling  the  regulatio^  of  the  plan,  and 
the  perfons  who  are  to  be  employed  as.  miffion- 
aries,  the  means  of  defraying  the  expence,  Sec.  8tc» 

This 


This  fbciety  muft  confift  of  perfons  whofc  hearU 
are  in  the  work,  men  of  ferious  religion,  and 
poffeffing  a  fpirit  of  pcrfeverance  ;  there  muft  be 
a  determination  not  to  admit  any  perfon  who  is 
not  of  this  defcription,  or  to  retain  him  longer 
than  he  ajifwers  to  it. 

From  fuch  a  fociety  a  committee  might  be  ap 
pointed,  whofe  bufmefs  it  fhouid  be  to  procure 
all  the  information  they  could  upon  the  fabjed, 
to  receive  contributions,  to  enquire  into  the  cha- 
racteis,  tempers,  abilities  and  religibus  views  of 
the  nnflionaries,  and  alfo  to  provide  them  with 
neceflaries  for  their  undertakings, 

They  muft  alfo  pay  a  great  attention  to  the 
views  of  thofe  who  undertake  this  work  ;  for  want 
of  this  the  midions  to  the  Spice  Iflands,  fent  by 
the  Dutch  Eaft-India  Company,  were  foon  cor 
rupted,  many  going  more  for  the  fake  of  fettling 
in  a  place  where  temporal  gain  invited  them, 
than  of  preaching  to  the  poor  Indians.  This 
foon  introduced  a  number  of  indolent,  or  pro 
fligate  perfons,  whofe  lives  were  a  fcandal  to  the 
doadnes  which  they  preached:  and  by  means  of 
whom  the  gofpei  was  ejecled  from  Ternate,  in 
1694,  and  Chriftianity  fell  into  great  difrepute  in 
other  places. 


M 


If  there  is  any  reafon  for  me  to  hope  that  I 
(hall  have  any  influence  upon  any  of  my  brethren, 
and  fellow  Chriftians,  probably  it  may  be  more 
efpeciallyamongft:  them  of  my  own  denomination. 
J  would  therefore  propofe  that  fuch  a  fociety  and 
committee  fhouJd  be  formed  amongfl  the  parti 
cular  baptljl  denomination. 

1  do  not  mean  by  this,  in  any  wife  to  confine 
it  to  one  denomination  of  Chriftians.  I  wifli 
with  all  my  heart,  that  every  one  who  loves  ouj 
Lord  Jefus  Chritt  in  fincerity,  would  in  fome  way 
or  other  engage  in  it.  But  in  the  prefent  divided 
ilate  of  Chriftendom,  it  would  be  more  likely  foi 
good  to  be  done  by  each  denomination  engaging 
feparately  in  the  work,  than  if  they  were  to  em 
bark  in  it  conjointly.  There  is  room  enough  for 
us  all,  without  inteifering  with  each  other;  and 
if  no  unfriendly  interference  took  place,  each 
denomination  would  bear  good  will  to  the  other, 
and  wilh,  and  pray  for  its  fuccefs,  confidering  it 
as  upon  the  whole  friendly  to  the  gieat  caufe 
of  true  religion;  but  if  all  were  intermingled,  it 
is  likely  their  private  difcords  might  throw  a 
damp  upon  their  fpirits,  and  much  retard  their 
public  ufefulnefs. 

In  refped  to  contributions  for  defraying  the  ex- 
pences,  money  will  doubtlefs  be  wanting;  and 

fuppofe 


fuppofe  the  rich  were  to  embark  a  portion  of  that 
wealth  over  which  God  has  made  them  ftewards, 
in  this  important  undertaking,  perhaps  there  are 
few  ways  that  would  turn  to  a  better  account  at 
laft.  Nor  ought  it  to  be  confined  to  the  rich ;  if 
perfons  in  more  moderate  clrcumftances  were  to 
devote  a  portion,  fuppofe  a  tenth,  of  their  annual 
increafe  to  ti»e  Lord,  it  would  not  only  correfpond 
with  the  pradlice  of  the  Ifraelites,  who  lived  under 
the  Mofaic  Oeconorriy,  but  of  the  patriarchs 
Abraham,  Ifaac,  and  Jacob,  before  that  difpen- 
fation  commenced.  Many  of  our  mod  eminent 
fore-fathers  amongft  the  Puritans,  followed  that 
practice ;  and  If  that  were  but  attended  to  now, 
there  would  not  only  be  enough  to  fupport  the 
miniftry  of  the  gofpel  at  home,  and  to  encourage 
village  preaching  in  our  refpective  neighbourhoods, 
but  to  defray  the  expences  of  carrying  the  gofpei 
into  the  heathen  world. 

If  congregations  were  to  open  fubfcriptions  of 
one  penny,  or  more  per  week,  according  to  their 
circumftances,  and  depofit  it  as  a  fund  for  the 
proportion  of  the  gofpel,  much  might  be  raifed 
in  this  way.  By  fuch  fimple  means  they  might 
foon  have  it  in  their  power  to  introduce  the 
preaching  of  the  gofpel  into  moft  of  the  villages 
in  England;  where,  though  men  are  placed  whofe 
buimefs  it  fhould  be  to  give  light  to  thofe  who  fit 
M  2  in 


(    86    ) 

in  darknefs,  it  is  well  known  that  they  have  it 
not  Where  there  was  no  perfon  to  open  his 
houfe  for  the  reception  of  the  gofpel,  fome  other 
building  might  be  procured  for  a  final!  fum,  and 
even  then  fomething  considerable  might  be  fpared 
for  the  baptift,  or  other  committees,  for  pra- 
pogating  the  gofpel  amongil  the  heathen. 

Many  perfons  have  of  late  left  off  the  ufe  of 
Weft-India  jugar  on  account  of  the  iniquitous 
manner  in  which  it  is  obtained.  Thofe  families 
who  have  done  fo,  and  have  not  fubftituted  any 
thing  tlfe  in  its  place,  have  not  only  cleanfed 
their  hands  of  blood,  but  have  made  a  faving  to 
their  families,  fome  of  fix  pence,  and  fome  of  a 
{hilling  a  week.  If  this,  or  a  part  of  this  were 
appropriated  to  the  ufes  befoie-rncntioned,  it 
would  abundantly  fuffice.  We  have  only  to  keep 
the  end  in  view,  and  have  our  hearts  thoroughly 
engaged  m  the  jmrfuU  of  it,  and  means  will  not 
be  very  difficult, 

\Ve  are  exhorted  to  lay  up  trcafure  in  heaven, 
where  neither  moth  nor  rufl  doth  corrupt^  nor  thieves 
break  through  and  Jical.  It  is  aifo  declared  that 
whatfoever  a  man  Jbwdh*  that  Jhall  he  alfo  reap. 
Thefe  Scriptures  teach  us  that  the  enjoyments  of 
the  life  to  come,  bear  a  near  relation  to  that 
which  now  is;  a  relation  fimiiar  to  that  of  the 

harveft, 


tiarvcft,  and  the  feed.  It  .is  trne  all  the  reward 
is  of  mere  grace,  but  it  is  nevert helefs  encou 
raging;  what  a  treasure*  what  an  harveft  muft 
await  fuch  chaia&ers  as  PAUL,  and  ELLIOT,  and 
BRAINERD,  and  others,  who  have  given  themfelves 
wholly  to  the  work  of  the  Lord.  What  a  heaven 
will  it  be  to  fee  the  many  myriads  of  poor,  hea 
thens,  of  Britons  amongft  tile  reft,  who  by  their 
labours  have  been  brought  to  the  knowledge  of 
God.  J^urely  a  crown  oj  rejoicing  like  this  is  worth 
afpiring  to.  Surely  it  is  woith  while  to  lay 
ouifetves  out  with  al)  our  might,  in  promoting 
the  cauie,  and  kingdom  of  Child, 


FINIS. 


Carey,  William 


3V 

2520 


An  enquiry  into  the  obligations.  G3 
of  Christians,  ... 


1 


