^^,  OF  P.,.^ 


Zo, 


OGICAL 


/60  ^ 


HUDSON    TAYLOR 

AND    THE 

CHINA    INLAND    MISSION 

THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 


JAMES  HUDSON  TAYLOR 
In  middle  life,  about  the  time  when  his  appeal  "  To  Every  Creature  "  was  issued. 


Frontispiece. 


H 


UDSON    TAYLOR 


AND  THE 


CHINA  INLAND  MISSION 

THE   GROWTH 
OF   A   WORK   OF   GOD 


By 

DR.  AND  / 

MRS.  HOWARD  TAYLOR 


WITH  PORTRAITS  &  MAP 


jf  tttb  Jinpresston 


THE   CHINA   INLAND   MISSION,  LONDON 
PHILADELPHIA,    TORONTO,    MELBOURNE    AND 

SHANGHAI 

AGENTS  :  THE  RELIGIOUS  TRACT  SOCIETY 
4.  BOUVERIE  STREET,  LONDON,  E.C.4 


First  Edition,  December  igiZ. 

Reprinted,  March  1919. 

Reprinted,  October  1919. 

Reprinted,  March  1920. 

Reprinted,  September  1921. 

Ttvo  Volumes  in  one  Edition^  March  1920. 

Reprinted,  September  1921. 

Total,  13,000  copies. 


OF  HIM 
THROUGH  HIM  AND  TO  HIM 
TO  WHOM  BE  GLORY 


FOREWORD 

"  The  founder  of  the  China  Inland  Mission  was  a  physician, 
J.  Hudson  Taylor,  a  man  full  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  of 
faith,  of  entire  surrender  to  God  and  His  call,  of  great  self- 
denial,  heartfelt  compassion,  rare  power  in  prayer,  marvellous 
organising  faculty,  energetic  initiative,  indefatigable  persever- 
ance, and  of  astonishing  influence  with  men,  and  withal  of 

childlike  humility." 

Professor  Warneck. 

"  Surely  never  was  man  better  fitted  for  his  work  than 
he  for  the  difficult  undertaking  of  founding  and  conducting 
a  great  interdenominational  and  international  mission  in 
million-peopled  China.  The  China  Inland  Mission  was  con- 
ceived in  his  soul,  and  every  stage  of  its  advance  sprung 
from  his  personal  exertions.  In  the  quiet  of  his  heart,  in 
deep  unutterable  communings  with  God,  the  mission  had 
its  origin,  and  it  remains  his  memorial.  On  that  noble 
monument,  not  of  perishable  marble,  and  in  characters  not 
of  man's  inditing,  his  name  is  written.  His  dust  sleeps  now 
in  China.  Silence  has  fallen  on  the  lips  which  long  pleaded 
China's  cause,  but  the  effects  of  the  plea  remain  in  the  con- 
version of  thousands  called  out  of  heathen  darkness  into 
God's  marvellous  light,  and  the  existence  of  a  mission  whose 
present  influence  and  future  growth  are  beyond  our  powers 
to  estimate.      To  God  be  all  the  glory. 

"  The  missionary  spirit  is  the  spirit  of  Jesus,  the  spirit  of 
the  Incarnation  and  the  Cross.      Not  then  to  the  instrument 

vii 


viii         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

of  the  Master,  however  dear,  however  noble,  but  to  the 
Master  Himself  be  all  the  praise.  Who  lives  to  carry  on  by 
His  own  unfailing  resources  and  chosen  instrumentalities 
His  work  of  the  redemption  of  a  fallen  world,  to  the  high 
and  glorious  issues  of  His  eternal  Kingdom." 

H.  Grattan  Guinness,  D.D. 


CONTENTS 


Foreword  . 


PACK 

vii 


PART    I 

THE  BACKSIDE  OF  THE  DESERT 

1860-1866.     Aet.  28-34. 


CHAP. 

I.  If  Thou  forbear  to  delivek 

•             . 

3 

2.  Hidden  Years 

10 

3.  There  wrestled  a  Man  with  him 

I              . 

■        25 

4.  The  Mission  that  had  to  bb; 

t              , 

33 

5.  According  to  His  Working 

. 

.        48 

part 

II 

LAUNCHING  OUT  INTO  THE  DEEP 
1866-1868.     Aet.  34-36. 

6.  My  Presence  shaix  go  with  thee 

7.  To  search  out  a  Resting-Place   .... 

8.  O  that  Thou  wouldest  bless  me  indeed 

9.  And  enlarge  my  Coast       .  .  .  .  , 


69 

84 

96 

116 


PART    III 

TREASURES  OF  DARKNESS 
1868-1870.     Aet.  36-38. 


10.  An  open  Door  :  a  little  Strength 

11.  The  darkest  Hour  . 

iz 


137 
153 


THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 


CHAP. 

12.  The   EXCHANGED    LlFK 

13.  Jesus  does  satisfy    . 

14.  Shall  never  Thirst 


PAGE 
168 

184 


PART    IV 
THE  GOD  OF  THE  IMPOSSIBLE 

1871-1877.     Aet.  39-45- 


15.  Thou  remainest        .... 

16.  Things  will  look  up— if  .... 

17.  Not  disobedient  to  the  Heavenly  Vision 

18.  Out  of  Weakness  were  made  Strong     . 

19.  The  Faithfulness  of  God. 

20.  The  Gates  of  the  West     .  .  , 


217 
228 

243 
260 
276 
2S5 


PART    V 
BURIED  LIVES:  MUCH  FRUIT 

1 878-1 88 1.     Aet.  46-49. 

21.  For  Jesus'  Sake         ..... 

22.  He  goeth  before  them       .... 

23.  Women  which  laboured  with  me  in  the  Gospel 


303 
319 
334 


PART    VI 

THE  RISING  TIDE 
1881-1887.     Aet.  49-55. 


24.  The  Seventy  .            .            .            ,            . 

'       349 

25.  Deeper  down              .... 

•       358 

26.  Above  all  that  ye  ask 

•       371 

27    The  Price  of  Progress 

.       3S5 

28.  Days  of  Blessing      .... 

401 

29.  The  Hundred            .... 

.       419 

CONTENTS 


PART    VII 


« 


WIDER  MINISTRY 

1888-1895.     Aet.  56-63. 

CHAP. 

30.  Few  know  what  is  betwixt  Christ  and  me 

31.  The  Cross  does  not  get  comfortable 

32.  With  Wings  as  Eagles 

33.  To  EVERY  Creature  . 

34.  The  Coming  Thousand 

35.  Deepening  the  Channels 

36.  The  Forward  Movement 


PAGE 

437 
456 
464 

479 
487 

503 
517 


PART    VIII 

"WORN  OUT  WITH  LOVING" 

1895-1905.     Aet.  63-73. 


37.  Can  ye  drink  of  the  Cup  ? 

38.  Again  the  Forward  Movement 

39.  Even  so,  Father 

40.  Waters  of  Rest 

41.  His  Way  is  perfect 

42.  Prayers  yet  to  be  answered 

INDEX   ...     0 


537 
553 
568 
588 
604 
620 

627 


ILLUSTRATIONS 


Hudson  Taylor  in  Middle  Life 
Mrs.  Hudson  Taylor,  nie  Dyer 
Mrs.  Hudson  Taylor,  nie  Faulding 
Three  Veterans . 
Map,  showing  C.I.M.  Stations 


FACING  PAGE 

Frontispiece 
.  144 
.  312 
.     608 

Efid  of  vol. 


PART   I 
THE   BACKSIDE   OF   THE   DESERT 

1860-1866.    Aet.  28-34. 

Chap.  i.  If  Thou  forbear  to  deliver. 

„       2.  Hidden  Years. 

„      3.  There  wrestled  a  Man  with  Him. 

„      4.  The  Mission  that  had  to  be. 

5.  According  to  His  Working. 


Thou  on  the  Lord  rely. 
So  safe  shalt  thou  go  on ; 
Fix  on  His  work  thy  steadfast  eye, 
So  shall  thy  work  be  done. 


Far,  far  above  thy  thought. 
His  counsel  shall  appear. 
When  fully  He  the  work  hath  wrought 
That  caused  thy  needless  fear. 


CHAPTER   I 

IF   THOU   FORBEAR   TO   DELIVER 

Sept.  1865.     Aet.  33. 

It  was  an  anxious  moment  for  the  young  missionary — 
fraught  with  possibilities  of  which  he  was  keenly  conscious. 
From  an  early  hour  that  morning  he  had  been  alone  with 
God,  pleading  for  abiding  results  from  this  meeting.  Now 
the  great  hall  with  its  sea  of  faces  lay  before  him  ;  but  how 
weak  he  felt,  how  inadequate  to  the  opportunity  !  And  no 
one  was  expecting  his  message.  A  stranger  at  Perth  and 
indeed  in  Scotland,  it  had  only  been  with  difficulty  he  had 
persuaded  the  leaders  of  the  Conference  to  give  him  a  few 
minutes  in  which  to  speak  on  China — that  vast  empire  with 
its  four  hundred  milhons,  a  fourth  of  the  entire  human  race, 
jibout  which  his  heart  was  burdened. 

"  My  dear  sir,"  the  Convener  had  exclaimed,  scanning 
the  introductions  of  this  unknown  Hudson  Taylor,  "  surely 
you  mistake  the  character  of  the  Conference !  These 
meetings  are  for  spiritual  edification." 

But  the  missionary  was  not  to  be  denied,  nor  could  he 
see  that  obedience  to  the  last  great  command  of  the  risen 
Saviour  was  out  of  keeping  with  spiritual  edification.  To 
him  it  seemed  rather  to  lie  at  the  root  of  all  true  blessing, 
and  to  be  the  surest  way  to  a  deepened  experience  of  fellow- 
ship with  God.  It  was  at  no  little  cost,  however,  that  he 
ventured  to  urge  this  point  of  view  ;  for  those  were  not  days 
when  foreign  missions  occupied  a  place  of  much  importance, 
and  his  dread  of  public  speaking  was  only  less  than  his 

3 


4  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

sensitiveness  about  putting  himself  forward.^  But  the 
facts,  the  great  unseen  reahties,  burned  as  a  fire  within  him. 
He  could  not  be  at  Perth  in  the  midst  of  the  Conference 
and  see  those  multitudes  of  Christian  people,  intelligent, 
influential,  and  caring  deeply  about  spiritual  things,  without 
longing  that  they  should  see  and  feel  needs  incomparably 
greater  than  their  own.^ 

And  now  the  moment  had  come.  (jTrembling  from  head 
to  foot  as  he  rose,  Hudson  Taylor  could  only  grasp  the  rail 
of  the  platform  and  command  voice  enough  to  ask  his 
hearers  to  unite  with  him  in  prayer  to  God.  To  Him  it  was 
easy  to  speak  ;  and  unusual  as  this  beginning  was,  even  for 
a  missionary  address,  it  arrested  attention  and  opened  the 
way  to  many  a  heart.  For  there  was  about  that  prayer  a 
peculiar  reality  and  power.  More  simple  it  could  not  have 
been,  and  yet  it  revealed  a  sacred  intimacy  that  awakened 
longing  for  just  such  confidence  in  and  certainty  of  God. 
A  strange  hush  came  over  the  people  before  the  prayer 
ended,  and  then  all  else  was  forgotten  in  scenes  to  which 
they  found  themselves  transported. 

For  the  missionary  came  at  once  to  the  heart  of  his 
message.  Back  again  in  thought  in  the  land  of  his  adoption, 
he  was  travelling  by  native  junk  from  Shanghai  to  Ningpo. 
Among  his  fellow-passengers,  one  Chinese,  who  had  spent 

1  In  the  train  on  his  way  from  Aberdeen  to  Perth,  Mr.  Taylor  had 
written  to  his  wife  in  London,  his  chief  helper  in  prayer  : 

"  Sept.  5,  1865  :  Through  God's  goodness  I  have  got  some  letters  of 
introduction  to  Perth.  May  the  Lord  help  and  guide  and  use  me  there. 
My  hope  is  in  Him.  I  do  desire  not  to  please  myself,  but  to  lay  myself 
open  for  China's  sake.  I  much  need  to  add  to  faith  courage  :  may  God 
give  it  me," 

2  One  of  the  very  few  gatherings  which,  at  that  time,  united  Christians 
of  all  denominations,  Perth  was  taking  much  the  place  in  Scotland  that 
the  Bamet  Conference  (afterwards  moved  to  Mildmay)  occupied  in  London. 
The  occasion  of  Mr.  Taylor's  visit  to  Perth  was  the  third  Conference, 
presided  over  in  the  City  Hall  by  the  Revs.  J.  Milne  of  Perth  and  Macdowall 
Grant  of  Arndilly,  and  attended  by  Messrs.  Stevenson  A.  Blackwood, 
R.  C.  Morgan  of  The  Revival  (afterwards  The  Christian),  the  Rev.  Hay 
Aitken  of  Penzance,  Brownlow  North  and  other  visitors  from  England,  as 
well  as  by  such  well-known  Scottish  leaders  as  the  Revs.  Andrew  Bonar, 
J.  Macpherson,  Moody  Stuart,  M'Gregor  of  Dundee,  Yule  of  Cargill, 
General  Macdowall,  George  Barbour,  Esq.,  of  Bonskeid,  Messrs.  Colville  and 
Gillett  of  Glasgow,  and  Mr.  Jenkinson  of  Edinburgh,  who  in  the  Carrubber's 
Close  Mission  had  for  six  years  been  deahng  almost  nightly  with  anxious 
inquirers,  seeking  and  finding  salvation,  an  outcome  of  the  great  Revival 
of  1859.     The  Conference  was  attended  by  about  two  thousand  people. 


IF  THOU  FORBEAR  TO  DELIVER  5 

some  years  in  England  and  went  by  the  name  of  Peter,  was 
much  upon  his  heart,  for,  though  not  unacquainted  with  the 
Gospel,  he  knew  nothing  of  its  saving  power.  Simply  he 
told  the  story  of  this  man's  friendliness  and  of  his  own 
efforts  to  win  him  to  Christ.  Nearing  the  city  of  Sung-kiang, 
they  were  preparing  to  go  ashore  together  to  preach  and 
distribute  tracts,  when  Mr.  Taylor  in  his  cabin  was  startled 
by  a  sudden  splash  and  cry  that  told  of  a  man  overboard. 
Springing  at  once  on  deck  he  looked  round  and  missed  Peter. 

"  Yes,"  exclaimed  the  boatmen  unconcernedly,  "  it  was 
over  there  he  went  down  !  ** 

To  drop  the  sail  and  jump  into  the  water  was  the  work 
of  a  moment ;  but  the  tide  was  running  out,  and  the  low, 
shrubless  shore  afforded  little  landmark.  Searching  every- 
where in  an  agony  of  suspense,  Mr  Taylor  caught  sight  of 
some  fishermen  with  a  drag-net — just  the  thing  needed. 

"  Come,"  he  cried  as  hope  revived,  '*  come  and  drag  over"? 
this  spot.     A  man  is  drowning  !  " 

"  Veh  bin/'  was  the  amazing  reply:  "It  is  not 
convenient." 

"  Don't  talk  of  convenience  !  Quickly  come,  or  it  will 
be  too  late." 

"  We  are  busy  fishing.** 

"  Never  mind  your  fishing  !  Come — only  come  at  once  ! 
I  will  pay  you  well." 

"  How  much  will  you  give  us  ?  " 

"  Five  dollars  !  ^  only  don't  stand  talking.  Save  life 
without  delay !  '* 

"  Too  little  !  **  they  shouted  across  the  water.  "  We 
will  not  come  for  less  than  thirty  dollars." 

"  But  I  have  not  so  much  with  me  !  I  will  give  you  all 
I've  got." 

**  And  how  much  may  that  be  ?  " 

"  Oh,  I  don't  know.     About  fourteen  dollars.*' 

Upon  this  they  came,  and  the  first  time  they  passed 
the  net  through  the  water  brought  up  the  missing  man. 
But  all  Mr.  Taylor's  efforts  to  restore  respiration  were  in 
vain.     It  was  only  too  plain  that  life  had  fled,  sacrificed 

^  Worth  at  the  time  more  than  thirty  shiUings. — J   H.  T. 


6  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

to  the  callous  indifference  of  those  who  might  easily  have 
saved  it.^ 

A  burning  sense  of  indignation  swept  over  the  great 
audience.  Could  it  be  that  anywhere  on  earth  people  were 
to  be  found  so  utterly  callous  and  selfish  !  But  as  the 
earnest  voice  went  on,  conviction  struck  home  all  the  more 
deeply  that  it  was  unexpected  : 

"  Is  the  body,  then,  of  so  much  more  value  than  the  soul  ? 
We  condemn  those  heathen  fishermen.  We  say  they  were  guilty 
of  the  man's  death — because  they  could  easily  have  saved  him, 
and  did  not  do  it.  But  what  of  the  millions  whom  we  leave  to 
perish,  and  that  eternally  ?  What  of  the  plain  command,  '  Go 
ye  into  all  the  world  and  preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature,' 
and  the  searching  question  inspired  by  God  Himself,  '  If  thou 
forbear  to  deliver  them  that  are  drawn  unto  death,  and  those 
that  are  ready  to  be  slain  ;  if  thou  say  est.  Behold,  we  knew  it 
not ;  doth  not  He  that  pondereth  the  heart  consider  it  ?  and 
He  that  keepeth  thy  soul  doth  not  He  know  it  ?  And  shall  He 
I  not  render  to  every  man  according  to  his  works  ?  '  "  j 

China  might  be  far  off  and  little  known  ;  we  might 
silence  conscience  by  saying  that  its  vast  population  was 
largely  inaccessible  ;  but  every  one  of  those  men,  women, 
and  children  was  a  soul  for  whose  salvation  an  infinite  price 
had  been  paid  ;  every  one  of  them  had  a  right  to  know  that 
they  had  been  ransomed  by  the  precious  blood  of  Christ, 
and  to  have  the  offer  of  eternal  life  in  His  Name.  While  we 
were  busy  about  other  things,  quite  profitably  occupied  it 
may  be,  they  were  living,  dying  without  God  and  without 
hope — a  million  every  month  in  that  one  land  passing 
beyond  our  reach. 

Rapidly,  then,  Hudson  Taylor  arrayed  before  his  hearers 
facts  that  recent  prayer  and  study  had  burned  afresh  upon 
his  soul.  Not  the  coast-board  provinces  only,  to  which  the 
little  band  of  Protestant  missionaries  was  confined,  but  the 
great  unreached  interior,  every  part  indeed  of  the  mighty 
empire  passed  in  review.  To  most  if  not  all  present  it  was 
a  revelation.     Millions  upon  millions  of  their  fellow-creatures, 

^  1  It  was  on  Friday,  October  lo,  1856,  that  this  incident  took  place, 
when  young  Hudson  Taylor  was  returning  to  Ningpo  with  Mr.  J.  Jones, 
whose  colleague  he  became  a  little  later. 


IF  THOU  FORBEAR  TO  DELIVER  7 

unknown,  unthought-of,  were  brought  out  of  the  dim  mists 
of  forgetfulness,  and  put  before  them  in  such  fashion  that 
their  claim  upon  Christian  hearts  could  never  again  be 
disregarded.  Missionary  addresses  were  not  wont  to  be  of 
that  order.  It  was  not  speaking,  so  much,  about  these 
startling  facts  as  letting  the  light  of  God  fall  upon  them — 
making  those  present  see  as  the  speaker  saw,  hear  as  the 
speaker  heard,  God's  view,  God's  verdict  upon  the  matter. 

And  what  a  verdict  that  was  ! 

In  Scotland,  with  its  population  of  four  millions,  several 
thousand  ministers  were  needed  to  care  for  the  spiritual 
interests  of  people  already  flooded  with  Gospel  light.  China, 
with  a  hundred  times  as  many  precious,  immortal  souls,  had 
not  even  one  Protestant  missionary,  on  an  average,  to  every 
four  millions.  Moreover,  its  ninety-one  missionaries  of  all 
societies  were  not  by  any  means  evenly  distributed.  They 
were  gathered  in  a  few,  a  very  few,  centres  near  the  coast. 
Confined  to  the  treaty  ports,  they  were  in  touch  with  a 
mere  fringe  of  the  population  of  the  provinces  in  which  they 
were  found  ;  while  beyond  lay  the  vast  interior,  inhabited 
by  two  hundred  millions  of  our  fellow-creatures,  amongst 
whom  no  voice  was  raised  to  tell  of  salvation,  full  and  free, 
through  the  finished  work  of  Christ.  Yet  we  believe  that 
**  the  wicked  shall  be  turned  into  hell,  and  all  the  nations 
that  forget  God."  Amazing  inconsistency,  appalling  in- 
difference to  the  revealed  will  of  Him  Whom  we  call  Master 
and  Lord,  and  to  the  deepest  needs  of  the  human  soul ! 

It  was  for  these  inland  provinces  and  dependencies  the 
speaker  pleaded — populous  regions  as  large  as  all  the 
countries  of  Europe  put  together,  in  which  no  Protestant 
missionary  was  yet  to  be  found. 

"  Do  you  believe  that  each  unit  of  these  millions  has  an 
immortal  soul,"  he  questioned  searchingly,  "  and  that  there  is 
'  none  other  name  under  heaven  given  among  men  '  save  the 
precious  name  of  Jesus  '  whereby  we  must  be  saved  '  ?  Do  you 
believe  that  He  and  He  alone  is  '  the  Way,  the  Truth,*'  and  the 
Life,'  and  that  '  no  man  cometh  unto  the  Father  '  but  by  Him  ? 
If  so,  think  of  the  condition  of  these  unsaved  souls,  and  examine 
yourself  in  the  sight  of  God  to  see  whether  you  are  doing  your 
utmost  to  make  Him  known  to  them  or  not. 


8  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

"  It  will  not  do  to  say  that  you  have  no  special  call  to  go  to 
China.  With  these  facts  before  you,  you  need  rather  to  ascertain 
whether  you  have  a  special  call  to  stay  at  home.  If  in  the  sight 
of  God  you  cannot  say  you  are  sure  that  you  have  a  special  call 
to  stay  at  home,  why  are  you  disobeying  the  Saviour's  plain 
command  to  go  ?  Why  are  you  vrefusing  to  come  to  the  help 
of  the  Lord  against  the  mighty  ? )  If,  however,  it  is  perfectly 
clear  that  duty — not  inchnation;^not  pleasure,  not  business — 
detains  you  at  home,  are  you  labouring  in  prayer  for  these  needy 
ones  as  you  might  ?  Is  your  influence  used  to  advance  the 
cause  of  God  among  them  ?  Are  your  means  as  largely  employed 
as  they  should  be  in  helping  forward  their  salvation  ?  " 

Recalling  an  experience,  the  pain  of  which  could  never 
be  forgotten,  Mr.  Taylor  went  on  to  tell  of  a  Ningpo  convert 
who,  full  of  joy  in  his  new-found  faith,  had  inquired  : 

"How  long  have  you  known  this  Good  News  in  your 
country  ?  " 

"  We  have  known  it  a  long  time,'*  was  the  reluctant 
answer  ;   "  hundreds  of  years." 

'*  Hundreds  of  years,"  exclaimed  the  ex-Buddhist  leader, 
"  and  you  never  came  to  tell  us  !  " 

"  My  father  sought  the  Truth,"  he  added  sadly,  "  sought 
it  long,  and  died  without  finding  it.  Oh,  why  did  you  not 
come  sooner  ?  " 

"  Shall  we  say  that  the  way  was  not  open  ?  "  continued  the 
speaker.  "  At  any  rate  it  is  open  now.  Before  the  next  Perth 
Conference  twelve  millions  more,  in  China,  will  have  passed  for- 
ever beyond  our  reach.  What  are  we  doing  to  bring  them 
the  tidings  of  Redeeming  Love  ?  It  is  no  use  singing  as  we 
often  do : 

*  Waft,  waft  ye  winds  the  story.* 

The  winds  will  never  waft  the  story  ;  but  they  may  waft  us. 

,  "  The  Lord  Jesus  commands  us,  commands  us  each  one 
individually — '  Go,'  He  says,  '  Go  into  all  the  world  and  preach 
the  Gospel  to  every  creature.'  Will  you  say  to  Him,  '  It  is  not 
convenient  '  ?  Will  you  tell  Him  that  you  are  busy  fishing — 
have  bought  a  piece  of  land,  purchased  five  yoke  of  oxen,  married 
a  wife,  or  for  other  reasons  cannot  obey  ?  WiU  He  accept  such 
excuses  ?  Have  we  forgotten  that  '  we  must  all  stand  before 
the  judgment  seat  of  Christ,'  that  every  one  may  receive  the 
things  done  in  the  body.     Oh,  remember,  pray  for,  labour  for 


IF  THOU  FORBEAR  TO  DELIVER  9 

the  unevangelised  millions  of  China,  or  you  will  sin  against  your 
own  soul !     Consider  again  whose  Word  it  is  that  says  : 

"  '  If  thou  forbear  to  deliver  them  that  are  drawn  unto  death, 
and  those  that  are  ready  to  be  slain  ;  if  thou  say  est,  Behold,  we 
knew  it  not  ;  doth  not  He  that  pondereth  the  heart  consider  it  ? 
and  He  that  keepeth  thy  soul,  doth  not  He  know  it  ?  And  shall 
not  He  render  to  every  man  according  to  his  works  ? , '  "  ) 

So  deep  was  the  impression  that  the  meeting  broke  up 
almost  in  silence.  Many  sought  the  speaker  afterwards,  to 
inquire  about  the  work  in  which  he  was  engaged  and  to 
offer  such  help  as  they  could  give.  Far  and  wide  reports 
were  carried,  both  of  the  address  and -that  Hudson  Taylor 
was  about  to  return  to  China.  With  no  denomination  at 
his  back,  no  Committee  even  or  promise  of  supplies,  he  was 
taking  with  him  a  party  of  fellow- workers  to  attempt  nothing 
less  than  the  evangelisation  of  the  inland  provinces  of  that 
great  empire.  And  he  was  so  calm  about  it,  so  sure  that 
God  had  called  them  to  this  seemingly  impossible  task  and 
would  open  the  way  before  them  !  Amazed  at  his  faith 
and  vision,  men  felt  almost  as  if  a  prophet  had  risen  up 
among  them,  and  one  of  the  larger  churches  was  filled  with 
an  audience  eager  to  hear  more  of  the  projected  mission.^ ' 

Further  openings  resulted,  as  it  was  found  that  Hudson 
Taylor  was  no  visionary  though  he  had  his  God-given  vision. 
Quiet,  practical,  steeped  in  prayer,  his  words  had  weight 
and  influence.  Reports  of  his  addresses  appeared  in  not  a 
few  religious  journals.  Friends  made  at  these  meetings 
were  among  his  faithful  helpers  through  all  the  after-years, 
and  to  this  day  there  are  those  who  remember  with  thankful- 
ness the  coming  of  this  servant  of  God  into  their  lives  at  the 
Perth  Conference  of  1865. 

What  was  it  that  lay  behind  the  faith  and  vision,  making 
them  far  other  than  a  Utopian  dream  ?  What  had  been  the 
life,  the  character,  the  heart-experiences  that  led  to  the 
launching  in  this  unexpected  way  of  the  China  Inland 
Mission  } 

*  "  I  spoke  on  China  yesterday,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  from  the  Conference, 
"  and  have  one  or  more  meetings  to-morrow  for  this  purpose  exclusively. 
I  am  staying  with  General  Sir  Alexander  Lindsay.  ...  I  should  not 
wonder  if  many  men  are  raised  up  for  China." 


CHAPTER  II 

HIDDEN    YEARS 
1860-1864.     Aet.  28-32. 

In  the  heart  of  the  East  End  of  London,  among  the  toilers  of 
Whitechapel,  Hudson  Taylor  had  made  his  home.  Invalided 
from  China  in  i860,  it  had  been  like  a  death-sentence  to  be 
told  that  he  must  never  think  of  returning  unless  he  wished 
to  throw  his  life  away.  Six  and  a  half  years  of  strenuous 
work  in  Shanghai,  Ningpo,  and  elsewhere  had  taken  heavy 
toll  of  a  constitution  none  too  strong  at  the  outset,  and  with 
a  delicate  wife  and  child  it  looked  for  a  time  as  though  he 
would  never  see  China  again. ^ 

His  one  consolation  in  leaving  the  converts  in  Ningpo 
had  been  that  he  could  serve  them  in  England.  A  hymn- 
book  and  other  simple  works  in  their  local  dialect  were  much 
needed,  and  above  all  a  more  correct  translation  of  the  New 
Testament  with  marginal  references.  Immediately  on 
landing,  the  young  missionary  had  thrown  himself  into  the 
task  of  getting  the  Bible  Society  and  the  Religious  Tract 
Society  to  undertake  these  pubhcations,  and  so  engrossed 
was  he  with  meetings,  interviews,  and  correspondence  that 
almost  three  weeks  elapsed  before  he  could  visit  his  beloved 
parents  in  Barnsley. 

Then  came  the  question  as  to  where  to  settle.  If  he 
should  be  detained  at  home  but  a  year  or  two,  Mr.  Taylor 
was  anxious  to  make  the  most  of  the  time.     No  thought  of 

1  The  story  of  Mr.  Taylor's  first  period  of  work  in  China  will  be  found 
in  Hudson  Taylor  in  Early  Years  :  The  Growth  of  a  Soul,  published  by  the 
China  Inland  Mission  and  Messrs.  Morgan  &  Scott,  to  which  this  volume 
forms  the  sequel. 


HIDDEN  YEARS  ii 

a  holiday  seems  to  have  entered  his  mind.  Furlough  to  him 
simply  meant  an  opportunity  for  finding  fellow-labourers 
and  fitting  himself  and  them  for  future  usefulness.  His 
colleagues  in  Ningpo,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  J.  Jones,  whose  work 
(unconnected  with  any  society)  had  been  the  means  of  much 
blessing,  were  no  longer  equal  to  the  burdens  pressing  upon 
them.  Even  before  Mr.  Taylor  left,  five  additional  helpers 
had  been  appealed  for,  and  much  prayer  was  being  made 
in  the  faith  that  they  would  be  given.  Meanwhile  tidings 
were  none  too  good  from  the  little  mission. 

"  You  know  what  it  is  to  have  a  sick  child  at  a  distance,' 
Mr.  Taylor  wrote  to  his  parents,  after  two  months  in  England, 
"  and  we  are  feeling  separation  from  children  in  the  Lord  who  are 
spiritually  sick.  But  what  can  we  do  ?  We  can  scarcely  go 
back  at  once.  I  know  how  we  are  needed,  but  the  object  sought 
in  our  coming  home  does  not  yet  seem  gained.  It  is  true  that  our 
friends  (Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jones)  are  apt  to  look  on  the  dark  side  of 
things  ;  so  we  must  hope  for  the  best,  and  join  our  prayers  with 
yours  for  God  to  work  in  the  hearts  of  the  dear  but  feeble  lambs 
of  His  flock,  redeemed  with  His  own  precious  blood.  Oh,  yes  ! 
He  will  bear  the  lambs  in  His  bosom.  He  loves  them  more 
than  we  do." 

Curbing  his  eagerness  to  be  back  in  China,  Mr.  Taylor 
had  decided  to  complete  his  medical  studies  and  take  his 
diplomas.  Facing  the  broad  thoroughfare  of  Whitechapel 
stood  his  old  Alma  Mater,  the  London  Hospital.  Its  doors 
were  open  to  him,  and  turning  resolutely  from  an  easier 
line  of  things  he  brought  his  wife  and  children  to  East 
London,  renting  a  house  on  a  side  street  near  the  hospital, 
that  no  time  might  be  lost  in  going  to  and  fro  to  attend  his 
lectures,  etc. 

Here,  then,  at  No.  i  Beaumont  Street,  began  the 
discipline  that  was  to  lengthen  out,  httle  as  Hudson  Taylor 
expected  it,  until  he  was  ready  for  the  wider  vision  that  was 
yet  to  dawn  upon  him.  Four  years  were  to  elapse — quiet, 
hidden  years — in  which  little  apparently  was  to  be  accom- 
plished, while  God  was  doing  the  real,  the  inner  work  which 
was  to  bear  fruit  not  in  Ningpo  only  but  in  every  part  of 
China. 


12  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Well  was  it  that  the  young  missionaries  could  not  foresee 
all  that  lay  before  them.  At  twenty-nine  and  twenty-four, 
long  patience  is  not  easy.  They  were  in  England  truly,  but 
with  every  thought,  every  breath,  loving  China,  living  for 
China  !  In  addition  to  his  medical  studies,  they  had  under- 
taken the  important  task  of  revising  the  Ningpo  Testament, 
the  Bible  Society  having  agreed  to  pubUsh  a  new  edition. 
They  were  in  correspondence  also  with  candidates  for  the 
mission,  and  as  health  improved  their  hope  brightened  that 
a  couple  of  years  might  set  them  free — medical  degrees 
obtained,  Romanised  publications  in  hand,  and  the  fellow- 
workers  given  about  whom  they  were  waiting  upon  God. 
And  it  was  to  be  four  years  before  the  Pillar  of  the  Cloud 
moved  for  them  even  a  little  ;  four  years  that  were  to  bring 
them  but  one  missionary,  and  in  which,  though  Mr.  Taylor's 
medical  studies  were  completed,  the  revision  was  to  prove 
a  task  that  grew  upon  their  hands.  Yet  it  was  right,  all 
right,  and  the  one  way  to  answer  their  deepest  prayers. 

A  glimpse  into  the  daily  life  of  that  little  home  in  Beau- 
mont Street,  so  different  from  the  sordid  scenes  about  it, 
is  afforded  by  the  recollections  of  the  Barnsley  candidate 
who  came  up  during  the  first  year  Mr.  Taylor  was  in  London. 
Through  his  Class  Leader,  Mr.  Henry  Bell,  he  had  been 
interested  in  China,  though  without  for  a  moment  supposing 
that  he  could  himself  become  a  missionary. 

"  James,"  said  Mr.  Bell  one  day,  "  I  have  a  job  for  ypu. 
Will  you  undertake  it  ?  " 

"  What  is  it,  sir  ?  " 

And  the  unexpected  reply  had  been,  "  Go  to  China." 

Hudson  Taylor's  appeal  for  workers  had  reached  Barnsley 
before  his  return  to  England,  and  often  was  the  matter 
remembered  in  prayer  in  the  old  home  on  the  Market  Place. 
Dropping  in  to  tea,  the  good  old-fashioned  Yorkshire  meal, 
Mr.  Bell  had  learned  that  spiritual  qualifications  were  needed 
rather  thah  high  educational  attainments.  This  turned  his 
thoughts  to  the  young  mechanic  who  was  his  right-hand 
helper  in  open-air  meetings  and  wherever  a  soul  was  to  be 
won.  Telling  him  all  he  knew  of  the  opening,  Mr.  Bell 
repeated  his  question  : 


HIDDEN  YEARS  13 

N^UVill  you  go  ?  " 

"^V*  I  will,"  replied  Meadows,  *'  if  God  is  calling  me.     But 
T  must  have  time  to  pray  over  it." 

The  faith  principles  of  the  mission  caused  him  no  appre- 
hension, nor  did  the  difficulties  of  the  language.  He  was 
ready  to  give  up  good  business  prospects,  and  go  out  looking 
to  the  Lord  alone  for  supplies.  But  he  must  know  assuredly 
that  he  was  being  led  of  God. 

"  So  I  fasted,"  he  wrote  long  after,  "  and  going  into  my  work- 
shop one  dinner-hour,  knelt  down  and  definitely  asked  the  Lord, 
'  ShaU  I  go  ?  ' 

"  The  answer  that  came  then  and  there  was,  '  Go,  and  the 
Lord  be  with  thee,'  and  I  have  never  regretted  from  that  day 
to  this  (nearly  fifty  years  later)  that  I  acted  upon  it." 

When  the  time  came  for  his  first  visit  to  London,  it  was 
with  immense  interest  he  looked  forward  to  being  in  Mr. 
Taylor's  company.  To  see  something  of  a  missionary's  life 
at  close  quarters  had  more  attraction  for  him  than  all  the 
wonders  of  the  great  city.  Making  his  way  to  the  address 
given,  he  was  scarcely  surprised  to  find  himself  in  a  poor 
neighbourhood.  Mr.  Taylor,  he  knew,  was  studying  medi- 
cine at  the  London  Hospital,  and  it  was  natural  he  should 
live  near  at  hand.  But  the  poverty  of  the  little  house  itself 
did  somewhat  take  him  aback,  when  he  got  over  the  surprise 
of  being  welcomed  by  a  Chinese  in  native  gown  and  queue. 
The  cottage  he  had  left  in  Bamsley  possessed  more  of 
comfort,  as  he  soon  discovered,  than  the  scantily  furnished 
rooms  which  contented  the  missionaries.  They  and  their 
Chinese  helper  (none  other  than  Wang  Lae-djun  of  Ningpo  ^) 
seemed  to  have  little  time  for  housekeeping,  so  keen  were 
they  on  the  chief  work  in  hand,  the  revision  of  the  New 
Testament.  In  a  study  devoid  of  all  but  actual  necessaries, 
he  found  Mr.  Taylor  engrossed  with  Mr.  Gough  over  a  knotty 
point  of  translation,  2  and  it  was  some  time  before  they  could 
do  more  than  give  him  a  cordial  welcome.     So  interested 

*  For  the  conversion  of  this  remarkable  man  and  his  early  labours, 
see  The  Growth  of  a  Soul,  p.  477  ei  sqq. 

3  The  Rev.  F.  F.  Gough  of  the  Church  Missionary  Society  also  on 
furlough  from  Ningpo,  who  had  joined  Mr.  Taylor  in  the  revision. 


14  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

was  he,  however,  in  all  that  was  going  on  that  he  forgot 
the  bareness  of  the  room,  the  low  fire  in  the  grate,  though 
the  day  was  bitterly  cold,  and  the  well-worn  dress  of  the  man 
whose  spirit  seemed  in  such  contrast  with  his  surroundings  ! 

And  at  table  it  was  the  same.  Lae-djiin  was  both  cook 
and  laundryman,  and  the  table  linen  no  less  than  the  pro- 
visions told  of  the  secondary  place  given  to  such  details. 
But  the  conversation  made  him  oblivious  of  the  cooking, 
and  he  was  surprised  to  find  himself  unruffled  by  things  that 
would  have  upset  his  peace  of  mind  at  home.  The  "  gentle, 
earnest  piety  "  of  the  missionaries  deeply  impressed  him, 
as  did  their  absorbing  devotion  to  the  work  they  had  left, 
which  was  never  far  from  their  thoughts.  The  appalling 
fact  of  a  million  precious  souls,  month  by  month,  perishing 
in  China  for  lack  of  the  Gospel  was  real  to  them,  and  found 
some  adequate,  corresponding  reality  in  their  daily  life. 
Poor  as  they  were — and  it  was  not  long  before  he  discovered 
that  they  had  no  means  in  hand,  or  even  in  prospect,  with 
which  to  send  him  to  China — he  was  glad  to  accept  such 
leadership,  and  to  go  out  simply  as  a  "  Scripture-reader  " 
when  before  long  funds  were  provided. ^ 

And  Hudson  Taylor's  care  of  his  one  missionary  was  not 
unworthy  of  this  confidence.  He  had  known  what  it  was 
to  be  alone,  in  need,  and  apparently  forgotten  during  his 
first  years  in  China,  and  nothing  that  could  be  done  by 
correspondence  and  attention  to  business  details  should  be 
omitted  to  further  the  efficiency  and  well-being  of  his 
fellow-workers.  Careful  though  he  was  of  every  penny,  he 
invested  in  a  good  account-book  and  a  file  for  letters,  and 
the  clear  entries  in  his  own  handwriting  testify  to  the 
faithfulness  with  which  he  discharged  these  responsibilities. 
Mr.  Meadows's  only  complaint,  indeed,  in  his  early  corre- 
spondence illustrates  the  regularity  with  which  he  was 
cared  for. 

"  James  Meadows  speaks  of  being  well  and  regularly  supplied 
with  money,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  to  his  mother  a  year  after  the 

1  Mr.  Meadows  and  his  bride  sailed  for  China  in  January  1862,  first 
of  the  five  workers  prayed  for  to  reinforce  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jones  in  the  Ningpo 
Mission, 


HIDDEN  YEARS  15 

young  couple  had  gone  out.  "  His  only  dissatisfaction  is  that 
his  friends,  knowing  him  to  be  looking  to  God  only,  would  be 
anxious,  while  he  is  receiving  remittances  as  regularly  as  though 
he  had  a  salary.  He  seems  distressed,  in  fact,  at  their  being  so 
regular  and  sufficient,  as  though  such  a  state  of  things  were 
incompatible  with  leaning  upon  God  alone.  I  have  explained 
in  my  reply  that  this  is  not  the  case,  and  that  as  neither  he  nor 
I  have  any  promise  of  another  farthing  from  any  one,  we  need 
to  look  to  the  Lord  constantly  to  supply  us  as  He  sees  fit." 

By  this  time  Mr.  Taylor's  medical  studies  were  completed 
and  his  diplomas  taken.  He  had  worked  hard  for  them, 
gaining  valuable  experience  in  hospital  practice  ;  and  now, 
the  strain  of  examinations  over,  he  was  more  free  to  look 
ahead. 

"  We  have  many  difficulties  before  us,"  he  had  written  home 
some  months  earher.^  "  I  do  not  see  my  way  at  all ;  but  it  is 
enough  that  He  does  Who  will  guide,  and  supply  all  our  need. 
...  I  wish  Bamsley  were  not  so  far  away.  But  when  we  get 
Hojne  we  shall  be  all  together.  .  .  .  We  must  not  seek  our  rest 
here,  must  we  ?  We  must  press  forward,  counting  everything 
(and  that  includes  a  great  many  things)  but  loss,  that  we  may 
*  win  Christ  and  be  found  in  Him.'  " 

Of  these  hidden  years  of  work  and  waiting  little  would 
have  been  known  in  detail  but  for  the  preservation  of  a 
number  of  brief  journals  whose  very  existence  was  un- 
suspected. Providentially  brought  to  light  while  these 
pages  were  being  written,  they  fill  a  gap  hitherto  passed 
over  in  silence.  Here  they  lie  upon  the  table,  twelve  thin 
paper-covered  notebooks,  worn  with  years,  but  not  one  of 
them  missing.  Beginning  soon  after  Mr.  Taylor's  medical 
degrees  were  taken,  they  cover  a  period  of  three  years,  up  to 
and  a  little  beyond  the  Perth  Conference. ^  Daily  entries  in 
his  small  clear  writing  fill  the  pages,  which  breathe  a  spirit 
words  are  poor  to  express. 

Scarcely  a  day  is  recorded  in  which  he  did  not  have 
correspondence,  visitors,  meetings,  lessons  in  Chinese  to 
give  to  intending  missionaries,  medical  visits  to  pay  to 
friends  pr  suffering  neighbours,  attendance  at  committees, 

1  In  a  letter  of  July  27,  1862. 
3  I.e.  December  1862  to  the  end  of  1865. 


i6  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

or  other  public  or  private  engagements  in  addition  to  the 
revision  of  the  Ningpo  Testament.  That  the  latter  was 
his  chief  occupation,  and  one  to  which  he  devoted  himself 
with  characteristic  thoroughness,  is  evident  from  the  journals. 
Every  day  he  noted  the  number  of  hours  spent  in  this  work 
alone,  and  one  frequently  comes  across  such  entries  as  the 
following : 

April  13,  1863  :   Commenced  with  Mr.  Gough  at  10  a.m.  and 
worked  together  about  eight  hours.     Revision,  total  nine  hours. 
April  14  :  Revision  nine  hours. 
,,     15  :         „        ten  and  a  half  hours. 
„     16 :         „        eight  hours. 
„     17  :         „        eleven  and  a  half  hours. 
,,      18 :         „         eleven  hours. 

19,  Sunday :  Morning,  wrote  to  James  Meadows,  .  .  . 
had  service  with  Lae-djiin.^  Afternoon,  took  tea  with  Mr.  John 
Howard,  having  walked  to  Tottenham  to  inquire  after  Miss 
Stacey's  health.  Evening,  heard  Mr.  Howard  preach.  Pro- 
posed to  Miss  Howard,  as  subjects  for  prayer,  that  we  should  be 
helped  in  revision — to  do  it  well  and  as  quickly  as  is  consistent 
with  so  doing.  Walked  home.^ 
April  20  :  Revision  twelve  hours. 
21 :         „        eleven  hours. 


22  : 
23: 
24: 

25: 


ten  hours. 

twelve  hours. 

nine  and  a  half  hours. 

thirteen  and  a  half  hours. 


Several  answers  to  prayer  to-day.  .  .  .  Thanks  be  to  Him. 

Thus  the  record  runs  on,  putting  to  shame  our  easy- 
going service  by  its  intensity  and  devotion.  And  this  was 
a  returned  missionary,  detained  at  home  on  account  of 
seriously  impaired  health  through  equally  strenuous  labours 
in  China  ! 

1  The  only  Chinese  Christian  within  reach,  Lae-djiin  was  not  neglected 
spiritually.  Regularly,  as  the  journals  testify,  Mr.  Taylor  spent  hours 
with  him  on  Sunday,  tired  though  they  must  often  have  been  :  hours  of 
prayer  and  Bible  study  that  had  not  a  little  to  do  with  Lae-djiin's  subse- 
quent usefulness  as  the  first  and  for  thirty  years  one  of  the  most  devoted 
native  Pastors  in  the  China  Inland  Mission. 

2  The  walk  to  and  from  Tottenham,  twelve  miles  in  all,  must  have 
been  fatiguing  to  Mr.  Taylor  ;  but  he  had  strong  conscientious  objections 
to  Sunday  travelUng,  and  felt  the  effort  well  repaid  by  intercourse  with 
the  Howards  and  other  friends,  and  the  helpful  fellowship  of  the  Brook 
Street  Meeting 


HIDDEN  YEARS  17 

April  26,  Sunday  :  Morning,  heard  Rev.  T.  Kennedy  on 
"  Do  thyself  no  harm."  (Appropriate  surely  !)  Afternoon,  lay 
do\^^l,  having  headache  and  neuralgia.  Evening,  with  Lae-djiin 
on  Heb.  xi.,  first  part.  Mr.  Gough  promised  to  begin  to-morrow 
not  later  than  10.30.  May  God  prosper  us  in  our  work  this  week, 
and  in  all  other  matters  be  our  help  and  guide. 

April  27  :    Revision  seven  hours  (evening  at  Exeter  Hall). 
„     28  :         „         nine  and  a  half  hours. 
„     29 :         „         eleven  hours. 

„      30  :         „         five  and  a  half  hours  (B.M.S.  meetings). 
May      I  :         „         eight  and  a  half  hours  (visitors  till  10  p.m.)  . 
2  :         ,,         thirteen  hours. 

3,  Sunday,  at  Bayswater  :  In  the  morning  heard  Mr. 
Lewis,  from  John  iii.  33  ;  took  the  Communion  there  in  the 
afternoon.^  Evening,  stayed  at  home  and  engaged  in  prayer 
about  our  Chinese  work. 

May  4  :    Revision  four  hours  (correspondence  and  visitors). 
„     5  :         ,,         eleven  and  a  half  hours. 
,,     6  :         ,,         seven  hours  (important  interviews). 
„     7  :         „         nine  and  a  half  hours. 
,,     8  :         ,,         ten  and  a  half  hours. 
„     9  :         ,,         thirteen  hours. 

„  10,  Sunday  :  Morning,  with  Lae-djiin  on  Heb.  xi.,  first 
part — a  happy  season.  Wrote  to  James  Meadows.  Afternoon, 
prayer  with  Maria  about  leaving  this  house,  about  Meadows, 
Truelove,  revision,  etc.  Wrote  to  Mr.  Lord.^  Evening,  heard 
Mr.  Kennedy  on  Matt,  xxvii.  42  :  "He  saved  others.  Himself 
He  cannot  save."  Oh !  to  be  more  like  the  meek,  forbearing, 
loving  Jesus.     Lord,  make  me  more  Uke  Thee. 

But  it  was  not  work  only,  it  was  faith  and  endurance 
under  searching  trial  that  made  these  years  so  fruitful  in 
their  after-results.  The  testing  permitted  was  chiefly  along 
two  lines,  those  of  the  Ningpo  Testament  and  the  supply 
of  personal  needs.  Mr.  Taylor,  it  should  be  recorded,  never 
at  any  time  received  financial  help  from  the  funds  of  the 

1  Bayswater  was  the  home  at  this  time  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  B.  Broomhall, 
the  beloved  sister  Amelia,  for  many  years  Mr.  Taylor's  chief  correspondent. 
The  Rev,  W.  G.  Lewis  was  the  minister  of  the  Baptist  Church,  of  which 
Mr.  Taylor  had  become  and  long  remained  a  member. 

2  The  Rev.  E.  C.  Lord  of  Ningpo,  formerly  of  the  American  Baptist 
Missionary  Union,  was  a  highly  esteemed  friend  of  Mr.  Taylor's.  Although 
very  busy  in  his  own  work,  he  found  time  to  replace  Mr.  Jones  in  the 
pastoral  oversight  of  the  Bridge  Street  Church,  and  to  give  much  help  to 
Mr.  Meadows.  Mr.  Jones  had  had  to  leave  China  in  broken  health,  and 
reached  the  better  Home  before  the  journey  could  be  completed. 

C 


i8  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Mission.  Even  in  these  early  days  he  felt  it  important  to 
be  entirely  independent,  in  this  sense,  of  the  work.  He 
had  long  been  looking  to  the  Lord  in  temporal  matters  as  in 
spiritual,  proving  in  many  wonderful  ways  the  truth  of  the 
promise,  "  No  good  thing  will  He  withhold  from  them  that 
walk  uprightly."  These  years,  however,  in  East  London 
were  marked  by  very  special  exercise  of  mind  in  this  connec- 
tion, and  some  periods  of  extremity  never  afterwards 
repeated.  Such,  for  example,  were  the  autumn  days  in 
1863,  of  which  we  read  as  follows  : 

October  5,  Monday  :  Our  money  nearly  spent.  Paid  in 
faith,  however,  what  was  owing  to  tradesmen  and  servants. 
Found  a  very  sweet  promise  for  us  in  our  revision  work,  i  Chron. 
xxviii.  20.     Revision  seven  hours. 

October  9  :  Our  money  all  but  gone.  O  Lord,  our  hope  is 
in  Thee  !  Revision  six  and  a  half  hours.  Mrs.  Jones,  Mrs. 
Lord,  May  Jones  and  Baby  came  from  Bristol.  (So  they  were 
responsible  for  quite  a  party.) 

October  10  :  Revision  nine  and  a  half  hours.  .  .  .  Went 
with  Mrs.  Jones  to  see  Mr.  Jonathan  Hutchinson,  who  kindly 
refused  to  take  any  fee.  Only  2s.  5jd.  left,  with  the  greatest 
management. 

I  must  have  all  things  and  abound. 
While  God  is  God  to  me. 

October  11,  Sunday  :  Morning,  with  Lae-djiin.  Afternoon, 
engaged  in  prayer.  Evening,  went  to  hear  Mr.  Kennedy.  We 
gave  2s.  to-day  to  the  collections,  in  faith  and  as  due  to  the  Lord. 

It  is  not  surprising  to  find,  as  the  week  wore  on,  special 
evidences  of  the  Lord's  watchful  care.  He  was  permitting 
their  faith  to  be  tested  for  sufficient  reasons,  but  He  was 
not  unmindful  of  them  in  the  trial.  Early  in  the  week  Mrs. 
Jones'  sister  came  up  from  the  country,  bringing  "  a  goose, 
a  duck,  and  a  fowl,"  with  other  good  things,  for  the  house- 
hold ;  and  a  day  or  two  later  a  relative  called  with  more 
than  thirty  pounds  for  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor's  personal  use. 

Once,  and  once  only,  was  there  a  Hability  that  could  not 
be  met,  for  they  sedulously  obeyed  the  injunction,  '*  Owe 
no  man  anything,  save  to  love  one  another."  It  was  the 
summer  of  1864,  the  close  sultry  season  so  trying  in  East 


HIDDEN  YEARS  19 

London.  Ever  since  the  beginning  of  August  supplies  had 
been  running  low,  and  on  the  12th  a  brief  entry  closed  with 
the  words  : 

The  tax-gatherer  called,  and  I  was  obliged  to  defer  him. 
Help  us,  O  Lord,  for  Thy  Name's  sake. 

Next  day  was  Satinrday,  and  there  was  little  or  nothing 
in  hand.  Seven  and  a  half  hours  were  given  to  revision 
just  as  usual,  though  the  children's  nurse  had  to  be  told 
the  situation  in  case  she  might  wish  to  leave. 

Sought  to  realise  that  it  is  in  weakness  and  need  the  strength 
of  Jesus  is  perfected 

is  the  entry  that  shows  how  deeply  their  hearts  were  exercised. 

That  night,  though  late,  a  friend  who  had  left  the  house 
returned,  and  putting  seven  pounds  into  Mr.  Taylor's  hand 
begged  him  to  accept  it.  Five  pounds  reached  him  by  post 
on  Monday,  and  thirty-five  during  the  course  of  the  week. 
Thus  he  was  confirmed  in  the  confidence  that,  for  them  at 
any  rate,  to  give  all  their  time  and  strength  to  the  Lord's 
work  and  quietly  wait  His  supplies  was  the  right  way. 

On  yet  another  occasion  that  little  home  in  Beau- 
mont Street  witnessed  some  hours  of  anxious  suspense.  A 
quarter's  rent  was  due  immediately  after  a  summer  holiday 
in  Yorkshire,  and  the  day  before  the  landlord  was  to  call 
for  it  Mr.  Taylor  returned  from  Barnsley  (where  he  had 
left  his  family)  and  went  to  the  desk  in  which  he  had  placed 
the  money  in  readiness.  To  his  surprise,  instead  of  finding 
the  amount  expected,  it  was  a  pound  short,  and  a  moment's 
reflection  assured  him  that  the  mistake  was  due  to  careless- 
ness on  his  own  part,  which  he  had  now  no  means  of  rectify- 
ing. For  how  to  make  up  that  missing  pound  he  knew  not, 
and  the  landlord — a  quick-tempered,  hard-spoken  man — 
was  to  call  the  following  morning. 

There  was  rnore  prayer  than  sleep  that  night,' but  the 
early  post  brought.no  relief.  Slowly  the  minutes  wore  on, 
Mr.  Taylor  listening  for  the  knock  that  did  not  come.  After 
an  hour  or  two  he  began  to  breathe  more  freely,  though  in 
intervals  of  work  all  day  the  anxiety  returned,  and  when 


20  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

night  came  he  gave  himself  again  to  prayer.  Next  morning. 
In  a  more  friendly  spirit  than  usual,  the  landlord  appeared. 
He  had  been  hindered,  he  explained,  in  starting  for  business 
the  day  before,  and  had  been  too  late  to  call.  Such  a  thing 
was  most  unusual,  he  could  not  account  for  it. 

'*  But  I  can,"  interposed  his  tenant  thankfully ;  "for 
only  by  this  morning's  post  have  I  received  a  sovereign 
needed  to  make  up  the  rent  1  *' 

Meanwhile,  what  of  the  bright  hopes  with  which  Mr. 
Taylor  had  entered  upon  the  work  entrusted  to  him  by  the 
Bible  Society  ?  To  obtain  a  correct  version  of  the  New 
Testament — not  in  Chinese  character  but  in  Roman  letters, 
representing  the  sounds  of  the  local  dialect,  and  thus  com- 
paratively easy  both  to  read  and  understand — was  an 
object  worthy  of  considerable  sacrifice.  With  the  help  of 
Wang  Lae-djiin  and  Mrs.  Taylor,  who  was  as  much  at  home 
in  the  Ningpo  dialect  as  in  English,  he  hoped  to  accomplish 
it  in  reasonable  time.  After  a  beginning  had  been  made, 
he  was  joined  also  by  the  Rev.  F.  F.  Gough  of  the  C.M.S., 
whose  knowledge  of  Greek  as  well  as  Chinese  enabled  him 
to  translate  with  confidence  from  the  original.  They 
were  thus  well  quahfied  for  the  work,  and  progress  was 
not  hindered  by  lack  of  diligence.  But  the  task  itself 
proved  far  more  laborious  than  they  had  anticipated, 
extended  as  it  was  to  include  the  preparation  of  marginal 
references. 

Moreover  it  met,  strange  to  say,  with  the  strongest 
opposition.  Persons  whose  position  gave  them  weight 
criticised  the  undertaking  at  the  Bible  House  to  such  an 
extent  that,  once  and  again,  it  seemed  as  if  it  must  be 
abandoned,  and  this  not  at  the  beginning,  but  after  months 
and  years  of  toil,  during  which  Mr.  Taylor's  friends  and  the 
Mission  circle  had  become  interested  in  the  matter.  To 
fail  after  having  sacrificed  so  much,  delaying  even  his  return 
to  China,  was  a  possibility  that  cost  him  keen  distress.  Yet 
he  had  to  face  it,  especially  when  Mr.  Gough  seemed  on  the 
point  of  giving  way.  For  two  or  three  months  the  situation 
was   painful  in  the  extreme.     Brief  entries  in  the  little 


HIDDEN  YEARS  21 

journal  show  how  keenly  Mr.  Taylor  felt  it,  though  working 
on  in  the  faith  that  all  would  yet  be  well. 

Sept.  21  (1863)  •  Spent  the  morning  in  fasting  and  prayer. 
.  .  .  Mr.  Gough  went  to  see  Mr.  Venn,i  and  I  began  a  letter 
to  the  Secretary  of  the  Bible  Society. 

Sept.  27,  Sunday  :  Morning,  with  Lae-djiin.  Afternoon,  en- 
gaged in  prayer  with  Mr.  Gough.  Evening,  heard  Mr.  Kennedy 
on  Hos.  vi.  I,  a  very  valuable  sermon.  ("  Come,  and  let  us  return 
unto  the  Lord  :  for  He  hath  torn,  and  He  will  heal  us  ;  He  hath 
smitten,  and  He  will  bind  us  up.")  May  we  turn  to  Him  again, 
and  again  find  His  favour  in  our  revision  work. 

Forty-three  hours  were  given  to  revision  that  week,  in 
spite  of  much  distress. 

Oct.  4,  Sunday :  Morning,  with  Lae-djiin  on  Romans  ii. 
Afternoon,  read  Hebrews,  in  Conybeare  and  Howson.  Evening, 
took  the  lead  at  Mr.  Scott's  "  Twig  Folly  "  Meeting.  Determined 
by  God's  help  to  Hve  nearer  to  Him,  and  thus  ensure  His  blessing 
in  our  work. 

But  the  difficulties  only  increased,  until  Mr.  Gough  could 
go  on  no  longer. 

"  Humanly  speaking  there  is  little  hope  of  the  continued  aid 
of  either  the  C.M.S.  or  the  Bible  Society,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  to 
his  mother  on  Oct.  7.  "  For  this  I  care  but  Uttle,  as  the  Lord 
can  easily  provide  the  funds  we  need.  But  the  help  of  Mr. 
Gough  in  the  remainder  of  the  work  is  very  desirable,  and  under 
these  circumstances  it  is  improbable  that  we  should  have  it.  I 
would  ask  special  prayer  then. 

"  I.  That  the  C.M.S.  and  the  Bible  Society  may  be  brought 
to  that  conclusion  which  will  be  most  for  the  glory  of  God  and 
the  real  (not  apparent)  good  of  the  work. 

"  II.  That,  if,  as  is  almost  certain,  they  throw  up  the  revision, 
and  if  it  be  most  for  the  good  of  the  dear  converts  of  Ningpo,  Mr. 
Gough  may  be  induced  to  continue  his  share  in  it. 

**  III.  That  if  he  should  not  do  this,(we  may  be  guided  aright 
as  to  our  path-^whether  simply  to  reprint  the  Epistles  and 
Revelation,  or  in  kome  measure  to  revise  them,  correcting  where 
we  can  any  glaring  errors  ;  or  whether  to  give  up  the  work 
altogether. 

"  My  present  full  conviction,  not  a  Httle  confirmed  by  the 
character  of  the  opposition  to  our  work,  is  that  it  is  of  the  Lord, 

^  Hon.  Secretary  of  the  Church  Missionary  Society. 


22  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

and  that  He  is  sa5dng  to  us,  '  Be  strong  and  of  good  courage  and 
do  it  :  fear  not,  nor  be  dismayed  ;  for  the  Lord  God  will  be  with 
thee,  until  thou  hast  finished  all  the  work  for  the  service  of  the 
house  of  the  Lord.'  If  this  is  really  His  will,  by  His  grace  I  will 
go  forward.     May  He  teach  me  if  it  be  not  so. 

"  '  Whatsoever  ye  shall  ask  in  My  Name,  that  will  I  do,  that 
the  Father  may  be  glorified  in  the  Son.'  Plead  this  promise, 
dear  Mother,  in  behalf  of  our  work.  And  may  He,  whose  we  are 
and  whom  we  serve,  guide  us  aright." 

Nothing  is  more  striking  in  the  records  of  the  period 
than  Mr.  Taylor's  dependence  upon  prayer,  real  dependence 
for  every  detail,  every  need.  He  leaned  his  whole  weight 
on  God,  pleading  the  promises.  Was  it  Lae-dj tin's  affairs, 
the  wife  and  child  who  needed  him,  or  the  difficulties  of  their 
long  task  ;  was  it  a  question  of  health,  their  own  or  the 
children's,  of  house  -  moving,  money  for  daily  bread,  or 
guidance  as  to  their  return  to  China  ?  All,  all  was  brought 
to  their  Heavenly  Father  with  the  directness  of  little  children, 
and  the  conviction  that  He  could  and  would  undertake, 
direct,  and  provide.     It  was  all  so  real,  so  practical ! 

Equally  characteristic  was  the  faithfulness  with  which 
he  followed  when  the  Lord's  way  was  made  plain.  Barely 
two  weeks  after  the  above  letter  was  written,  the  Bible 
Society  reached  a  decision  which  bound  him  more  than  ever 
to  the  revision. 

"  There  is  no  intention  of  taking  it  out  of  your  hands,"  wrote 
his  friend  Mr.  Pearse,  forestalling  the  letter  of  the  Committee. 
"  They  are  evidently  satisfied  with  what  you  are  doing,  and  the 
way  you  are  doing  it. " 

This  meant  that  the  Romanised  Testament  would  be  com- 
pleted, and  greatly  rejoiced  Mr.  Taylor  as  a  definite  answer 
to  prayer  ;  but  it  meant  also  that  he  was  pledged  more  than 
ever  to  his  part  of  the  work — and  the  years  were  passing  on. 
With  returning  strength  the  longing  grew  upon  him  to  be 
back  in  China,  especially  when  the  death  of  Mr.  Jones  left 
the  Bridge  Street  converts  almost  without  pastoral  care. 
Great  changes  had  swept  over  Ningpo  with  the  devastations 
of  the  Tai-ping  Rebellion.  After  indescribable  sufferings 
the  population  had  largely  lost  faith  in  idols  which  could 


HIDDEN  YEARS  23 

not  protect  even  themselves,  and  many  were  ready  as  never 
before  for  the  consolations  of  the  Gospel.  Mr.  Meadows, 
bereaved  of  wife  and  child,  was  in  sore  need  of  companion- 
ship, and  the  native  Christians  of  spiritual  help.  Every- 
thing pointed,  humanly  speaking,  to  Mr.  Taylor's  return, 
and  increased  his  longing  to  be  in  direct  missionary  work 
once  more.  Important  as  the  revision  was,  he  was  young 
and  craved  activity  and  the  joy  of  winning  souls  to  Christ. 
Yet  did  not  the  very  answers  to  prayer  that  had  been  so 
marked  bind  him  to  continue  the  work  that  was  detaining 
him,  and  carry  it  to  completion  ? 

But  all  the  while  another  longing  was  taking  possession 
of  his  soul,  looming  large  and  ever  larger  with  strange 
persistence.  Do  what  he  would,  he  could  not  escape  the 
call  of  inland  China,  the  appeal  of  those  Christless  millions 
for  whom  no  man  seemed  to  care.  On  his  study  wall  hung 
the  map  of  the  whole  vast  empire  ;  on  the  table  before  him 
lay  the  ever-open  Bible  ;  and  between  the  two  how  close 
and  heart-searching  the  connection !  Feeding,  feasting, 
upon  the  Word  of  God,  his  eye  would  fall  upon  the  map — 
and  oh,  the  thought  of  those  for  whom  nothing  was  prepared  ! 

"  While  on  the  field,"  he  wrote,  "  the  pressure  of  claims 
immediately  around  me  was  so  great  that  I  could  not  think 
much  of  the  still  greater  need  farther  inland,  and  could  do  nothing 
to  meet  it.  But  detained  for  some  years  in  England,  daily 
viewing  the  whole  country  on  the  large  map  in  my  study,  I  was 
as  near  the  vast  regions  of  the  interior  as  the  smaller  districts 
in  which  I  had  personally  laboured — and  prayer  was  the  only 
resource  by  which  the  burdened  heart  could  obtain  any  relief." 

Laying  aside  their  work,  for  Mr.  Gough  in  measure  shared 
this  experience,  they  would  call  Mrs.  Taylor  and  Lae-djiin, 
and  unitedly  pour  out  their  hearts  in  prayer  that  God  would 
send  the  Gospel  to  every  part  of  China.  And  they  did  more 
than  pray.  Alone,  or  together,  they  interviewed  the  repre- 
sentatives of  the  larger  missionary  societies,  pleading  the 
cause  of  those  unevangelised  millions.  Everywhere  they 
were  met  with  sympathy,  for  the  facts  were  their  own 
argument ;  but  everywhere  also  it  was  evident  that  nothing 
could,  or  rather  would  be  done.     The  objections  raised  were 


24  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

twofold  :  in  the  first  place,  financially,  any  aggressive  effort 
was  impossible.  Neither  the  men  nor  the  means  were  forth- 
coming. And  were  it  otherwise,  those  remote  provinces 
were  practically  inaccessible  to  foreigners.  True  the  treaty 
of  i860  provided  for  journeys  and  even  residence  inland, 
but  that  was  merely  on  paper,  and  everywhere  the  conclusion 
was  the  same  :  •'*  We  must  wait  until  God's  providence 
opens  the  door  ;  at  present  we  can  do  nothing." 

These  objections,  however,  did  not  lessen  the  need  or 
bring  any  lightening  of  the  burden.  Returning  to  the  East 
End  and  his  quiet  study,  Hudson  Taylor  found  himself  still 
challenged  by  the  open  Bible,  the  ever-accusing  map.  The 
Master  had  said  nothing  about  politics  or  finance  in  His 
great  commission.  "  Go  ye  .  .  .  Lo,  I  am  with  you." 
"All  the  world  ...  all  the  days  " — so  read  command  and 
promise'.    Was  He  not  worthy  of  trust  and  utmost  allegiance  ? 

And  there  were  others  who  thought  as  he  did,  friends 
and  candidates  of  the  Mission  who  gathered  weekly  for 
prayer  at  Beaumont  Street.  Ever  since  the  outgoing  of 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Meadows  this  meeting  had  been  held  on 
Saturday  afternoons.  Few  though  they  were  in  number, 
the  spirit  of  prayer  was  so  outpoured  that  for  a  couple  of 
hours  at  a  time  those  fervent  hearts  went  up  in  continued 
supplication.  Thus  as  the  silent  years  drew  to  a  close,  with 
their  restraining  providences  and  all  their  deepening  and 
development,  to  the  man  upon  his  knees  came  at  length 
some  apprehension  of  that  for  which  also  he  was  apprehended 
of  God. 


CHAPTER   III 

THERE   WRESTLED   A   MAN   WITH   HIM 
1865.     Aet.  33. 

Among  those  who  attended  the  prayer  meeting  at  Beaumont 
Street,  none  were  more  interested  in  the  Ningpo  Mission 
than  the  tall  silent  merchant  and  his  wife  who  came  up 
from  their  beautiful  home  in  Sussex.  As  the  owner  of  large 
starch  works  Mr.  Berger  was  a  busy  man,  but  his  chief 
interest  lay  in  the  extension  of  the  Kingdom  of  God.  Brought 
up  in  the  Church  of  England  he  had  been  converted  early  in 
life  under  unusual  circumstances.  At  an  evening  party  he 
was  talking  with  a  girl  of  his  own  age  when,  to  his  surprise, 
she  introduced  the  subject  of  religion.  So  evident  was  her 
sincerity,  and  the  joy  she  found  in  Christ  as  a  personal 
Friend  and  Saviour,  that  the  young  man  was  deeply  moved. 
In  the  midst  of  that  gay  company  he  realised  the  emptiness 
of  all  the  world  can  give,  apart  from  the  one  thing  needful. 
No  special  sense  of  sin  seems  to  have  come  to  him  till  later, 
but  then  and  there  he  received  the  Lord  Jesus  as  his  Saviour, 
"  and  went  behind  the  drawing-room  door  to  hide  his  tears 
of  thankfulness." 

He  was  still  under  forty  when  he  met  Hudson  Taylor  for 
the  first  time,  then  a  lad  of  twenty-one  on  the  eve  of  sailing 
for  China,  and  was  attracted  by  his  spirit.^  Correspondence 
increased  the  interest,  and  when  the  missionary  was  invalided 

1  As  much  was  to  grow  out  of  this  association,  it  is  interesting  to  recall 
that  the  introduction  was  through  a  mutual  friend,  Mr.  George  Pearse 
of  the  Stock  Exchange,  Secretary  of  the  Society  that  was  sending  the 
young  missionary  to  China,  who,  after  the  Hackney  Meeting  one  Sunday 
morning,  took  Hudson  Taylor  and  his  friend  {later  on  his  brother-in-law), 
Mr.  B,  Broomhall,  to  dine  with  the  Bergers,  then  living  at  Hornsey  Rise. 

25 


26  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

home  seven  years  later,  no  warmer  welcome  awaited  him, 
outside  his  family  circle,  than  the  welcome  of  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Berger  to  Saint  Hill.^  From  that  time  their  house  was 
open  to  him  and  his,  and  the  prolonged  task  that  kept  him  in 
London  served  to  deepen  the  friendship. 

With  more  experience  of  the  world  as  well  as  in  spiritual 
things,  Mr.  Berger  was  fitted  to  be  just  the  adviser  Hudson 
Taylor  needed,  and  in  his  gentle  wife  Mrs.  Taylor  found 
almost  a  mother's  sympathy.  Saint  Hill,  indeed,  became 
a  real  oasis  to  all  the  family  at  Beaumont  Street.  How 
good  it  was  to  escape  at  times  from  the  squalid  surroundings 
of  Whitechapel  to  the  hills  and  lanes  of  Sussex  !  The  fine 
old  house  and  grounds,  sloping  down  to  a  little  lake  with 
meadows  beyond,  were  a  paradise  to  the  children,  quite 
apart  from  the  good  cheer  Mrs.  Berger's  hospitality  provided. 
It  was  a  perfect  friendship  ;  and  with  no  family  of  their 
own,  the  Bergers  had  room  in  their  hearts  for  all  the  interests 
of  the  Mission. 

As  time  went  on  and  Mr.  Taylor  became  increasingly 
burdened  about  the  need  and  claims  of  inland  China,  Mr. 
Berger  shared  with  him  much  of  the  exercise  of  heart 
involved.  He  knew  of  Mr.  Taylor's  efforts  to  induce  various 
societies  to  extend  their  operations  to  those  waiting  provinces, 
and  was  in  sympathy  with  his  thought  of  utilising  a  class  of 
labourers  hitherto  little  drawn  upon.  But  it  was  in  the 
growing  sense  of  personal  responsibility  that  the  chief  bond 
of  union  lay.  Accompanying  Mr.  Taylor  to  a  farewell 
meeting  for  a  young  worker  about  to  join  Mr.  Meadows,  he 
was  surprised  to  find  a  small  poor  church,  without  a  single 
influential  member,  undertaking  the  whole  of  his  support. 
The  joy  with  which  they  were  making  sacrifices  brought  to 
Mr.  Berger  a  new  sense  of  the  privilege  of  giving  and  suffering 
for  Jesus'  sake,  and  the  earnestness  of  Mr.  Taylor's  address 
moved  him  to  a  definite  resolve.  Rising  at  the  close  of  the 
meeting  he  said  that  what  he  had  seen  and  heard  over- 
whelmed him  with  shame  because  he  had  done  so  little, 
comparatively,  for  the  cause  of  Christ.     It  filled  him  with 

1  The  beautiful  mansion  near  East  Grinstead  to  which  they  had  moved 
from  London. 


THERE  WRESTLED  A  MAN  WITH  HIM        27 

joy  also  ;  and  he  had  determined  that  night  to  do  ten  times 
more,  yes,  by  the  help  of  God,  a  hundred  times  more  than 
he  had  hitherto  attempted.^ 

Thankful  as  Mr.  Taylor  must  have  been  for  this  step 
forward,  how  little  either  he  or  Mr.  Berger  can  have  antici- 
pated the  developments  for  which  provision  was  thus  being 
made  !  Yet  they  were  near  at  hand.  For  to  himself  also 
matters  were  assuming  a  new  urgency.  Added  to  the  con- 
sciousness ever  present  with  him  of  passing  souls  in  China, 
had  come  another  thought :  ^ 

"  They  perish — a  thousand  every  hour  of  the  day  and 
night — and  this  while  to  me,  as  to  every  believer,  is  given 
power  to  ask  in  prayer  whatsoever  we  will ;  to  ask  without 
limit  in  the  name  of  Jesus." 

Little  wonder  the  burden  was  intolerable  !  - 

By  this  time  a  change  had  come  in  his  immediate  sur- 
roundings. A  growing  interest  in  the  Ningpo  Mission  and 
an  increasing  number  of  candidates  made  it  necessary  to 
seek  larger  quarters.  A  home  had  been  found  in  Coborn 
Street,  a  couple  of  miles  farther  east,  where  Mile  End  merges 
into  the  more  residential  neighbourhood  of  Bow,  and  side 
streets  aspire  to  modest  gardens  shaded  by  welcome  trees. 
One  would  hardly  have  thought  that  number  30,  with  its 
one  window  beside  the  hall-door,  could  have  offered  any 
serious  difficulty  through  excess  of  size  ;  but  the  entry  in 
Mr.  Taylor's  journal  was  as  follows  : 

Sept.  28  (1864)  :  Revision  five  hours.  Went  with  Mr.  Gough 
to  seek  a  house :  found  the  way  closed  in  all  but  one  direction. 
The  house  seemed  too  large  for  us,  but  Mr.  Gough  offered  to 
pay  the  difference  between  it  and  our  present  rent. 

A  week  later  the  result  was  recorded  : 

Oct.  5  :  Revision  two  and  a  half  hours.  .  .  .  We  prepare  for 
moving  to-morrow.  Prayer  was  answered  in  our  finding  a  man 
who  would  help  us  to  remove  reasonably. 

1  It  is  interesting  that  this  experience  took  place  on  March  13,  1865, 
little  more  than  three  months  before  Mr.  Taylor  himself  met  the  crisis  of 
his  Ufe  on  the  sands  at  Brighton. 


28  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Oct.  6  :  Came  to  30  Cobom  Street,  Bow.  Paid  eighteen 
shillings  for  removing.  Took  Truelove  to  Bryanstone  Hall, 
and  lectured  on  China. 

Eighteen  shillings  for  the  transport  of  all  their  worldly 
belongings  !  And  not  only  so  :  a  day  sufficed  for  packing, 
it  would  seem,  and  even  less  for  settling  into  the  new  home. 
For  Mr.  Taylor  "  lectured  on  China  "  within  a  few  hours 
of  taking  possession,  and  thereafter,  as  may  be  seen  from 
the  journal,  the  revision  and  other  work  proceeded  just  as 
usual.  What  a  light  it  casts  upon  the  largeness  of  his  aims 
and  the  lowliness  of  his  spirit ! 

Here,  then,  a  fresh  start  had  been  made  in  October  1864, 
the  sitting-room,  extending  from  front  to  back  on  the  ground- 
floor,  being  much  appreciated  for  the  prayer  meeting  which 
was  increasing  in  numbers.  The  revision  of  the  Ningpo 
Testament  was  still  the  main  task,  though  Mr.  Gough  was 
expecting  to  complete  it  single-handed,  as  the  time  seemed 
near  for  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor's  return  to  China.  Candidates 
were  coming  and  going,  and  new  cycles  of  interest  were 
opening  up. 

"  We  need  your  prayers,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  to  his  mother 
at  the  beginning  of  1865.  "  The  responsibility  resting  upon  us 
is  increasing  very  much.  I  must  have  more  grace  and  wisdom 
from  above  or  shall  utterly  fail.  May  He  Who  giveth  '  more 
grace  '  grant  me  to  Hve  increasingly  in  His  Hght.  We  have 
received  a  hundred  pounds  toward  the  expense  of  outfit,  etc. ; 
pray  for  what  more  may  be  needed,  perhaps  nine  hundred  or  a 
thousand  pounds  " 

— for  he  was  hoping  to  take  with  him  six  or  seven  new 
missionaries. 

And  then,  just  as  all  seemed  ready  for  advance,  an 
unexpected  happening  changed  the  current  of  events  and 
closed  the  way  again  indefinitely.  A  fine  new  steamer  was 
about  to  sail  for  China,  and  the  owner,  hearing  of  Mr. 
Taylor's  party,  offered  free  passages  to  a  couple  of  mission- 
aries. Two  of  the  young  men  were  ready  in  time  and 
embarked  at  Glasgow  ;  but  a  stormy  voyage  down  the  Irish 
Channel  so  upset  one  of  them  that  he  turned  back  from 
Plymouth,  fearing  he  had  mistaken  his  calling.     This  was. 


THERE  WRESTLED  A  MAN  WITH  HIM        29 

of  course,  a  keen  disappointment  to  Mr.  Taylor,  who  was 
concerned  also  that  the  passage  and  outfit  should  be  lost. 
Right  nobly  a  young  farmer  from  Aberdeenshire  stepped 
into  the  gap,  putting  off  his  marriage,  which  was  about  to 
take  place,  that  he  might  redeem  the  situation.  He  had 
been  long  engaged,  and  it  was  naturally  felt  that  his  fiancee, 
also  an  accepted  candidate,  should  follow  him  as  soon  as 
possible.  Funds  and  a  suitable  escort  being  provided  in 
answer  to  prayer,  she  sailed  a  fortnight  later,  and  Mr.  Taylor 
was  left  minus  four  of  his  prospective  party.  Of  the  re- 
mainder, strange  to  say,  one  wanted  more  time  for  prepara- 
tion, a  second  was  unable  to  free  himself  from  home  claims, 
and  a  third  had  not  fully  made  up  his  mind  about  going  ; 
so  there  was  nothing  for  it  but  to  pray  and  wait  until  the 
way  should  open.^ 

Meanwhile,  moreover,  Mr.  Taylor  had  been  drawn  into 
a  new  undertaking,  which  was  absorbing  time  and  thought. 
Early  in  the  year  the  pastor  of  the  church  to  which  he 
belonged  (who  was  editor  also  of  the  Baptist  Magazine)  had 
asked  for  a  series  of  articles  on  China  with  a  view  to  awaken- 
ing interest  in  the  Ningpo  Mission.  These  Mr.  Taylor  had 
begun  to  prepare,  and  one  had  even  been  pubhshed,  when 
Mr.  Lewis  returned  the  manuscript  of  the  next.  The 
articles,  he  felt,  were  weighty,  and  should  have  a  wider 
circulation  than  his  paper  could  afford. 

"  Add  to  them,"  he  said  earnestly  ;  "let  them  cover  the 
whole  field  and  be  published  as  an  appeal  for  inland  China." 

This  seemed  incompatible  with  Mr.  Taylor's  many 
engagements,  but  when  his  departure  was  unexpectedly 
delayed  he  saw  the  opportunity  and  set  himself  to  take 
advantage  of  it.  Even  before  his  party  had  been  broken  up, 
the  study  necessary  for  these  papers  was  bringing  to  a  crisis 
the  exercise  of  mind  through  which  Mr.  Taylor  had  been 
passing.  Compiling  facts  as  to  the  size  and  population  of 
every  province  in  China,  and  making  diagrams  to  show  their 

^  With  the  sailing  of  the  bride-elect  the  prayer  was  fully  answered 
which  had  been  going  up  since  i860,  for  five  additional  workers  for  the 
Ningpo  Mission.  The  five  thus  sent  out  were :  Mr.  Meadows  (who  had 
already  lost  his  wife  in  China),  Miss  Notman,  Messrs.  Barchet  and  Crombie, 
and  Miss  Skinner  (Mrs.  Crombie). 


30  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

neglected  condition,  stirred  him  to  a  desperate  sense  of  the 
sin  and  shame  of  allowing  such  a  state  of  things  to  continue. 
Yet  what  was  to  be  done  ?  The  number  of  Protestant 
missionaries,  as  he  had  discovered,  was  diminishing  rather 
than  increasing.  Despite  the  fact  that  half  the  heathen 
population  of  the  world  was  to  be  found  in  China,  the 
missionaries  engaged  in  its  evangehsation  had  actually  been 
reduced,  during  the  previous  winter,  from  a  hundred  and 
fifteen  to  only  ninety-one.  This  had  come  to  Ught  through 
his  study  of  the  latest  statistics,  and,  naturally,  added  fuel 
to  the  fire  that  was  consuming  him.  But  he  had  done  all 
that  was  possible.     No  one  would  move  in  the  matter      He 

must  leave  it  now,  until  the  Lord But  somehow  that 

was  not  the  final  word. 

Leave  it,  when  he  knew  that  he,  small,  weak,  and  nothing 
as  he  was,  might  pray  in  faith  for  labourers  and  they  would 
he  given  ?  Leave  it,  when  there  stood  plainly  in  his  Bible 
that  solemn  word,  *'  When  I  say  unto  the  wicked,  Thou 
shalt  surely  die  ;  and  thou  givest  him  not  warning,  nor 
speakest  to  warn  the  wicked  from  his  wicked  way,  to  save 
his  life  ;  the  same  wicked  man  shall  die  in  his  iniquity,  but 
his  blood  will  I  require  at  thy  hand  "  ! 

"  I  knew  God  was  speaking,"  he  said  of  this  critical  time. 
"  I  knew  that  in  answer  to  prayer  evangelists  would  be  given 
and  their  support  secured,  because  the  Name  of  Jesus  is  worthy. 
But  there  unbelief  came  in. 

"  Suppose  the  workers  are  given  and  go  to  China  :  trials 
will  come  ;  their  faith  may  fail ;  would  they  not  reproach  you 
for  bringing  them  into  such  a  plight  ?  Have  you  ability  to  cope 
with  so  painful  a  situation  ? 

"  And  the  answer  was,  of  course,  a  decided  negative. 

"  It  was  just  a  bringing  in  of  self,  through  unbelief;  the 
devil  getting  one  to  feel  that  while  prayer  and  faith  would  bring 
one  into  the  fix,  one  would  have  to  get  out  of  it  as  best  one  might. 
And  I  did  not  see  that  the  Power  that  would  give  the  men  and 
the  means  would  be  sufficient  to  keep  them  also,  even  in  the 
far  interior  of  China. 

"  Meanwhile,  a  million  a  month  were  dying  in  that  land, 
dying  without  God.  This  was  burned  into  my  very  soul.  For 
two  or  three  months  the  conflict  was  intense.  I  scarcely  slept 
night  or  day  more  than  an  hour  at  a  time,  and  feared  I  should 


THERE  WRESTLED  A  MAN  WITH  HIM        31 

lose  my  reason.  Yet  I  did  not  give  in.  To  no  one  could  I  speak 
freely,  not  even  to  my  dear  wife.  She  saw,  doubtless,  that  some- 
thing was  going  on  ;  but  I  felt  I  must  refrain  as  long  as  possible 
from  laying  upon  her  a  burden  so  crushing — these  souls,  and 
what  eternity  must  mean  for  every  one  of  them,  and  what  the 
Gospel  might  do,  would  do,  for  all  who  believed,  if  we  would 
take  it  to  them." 

The  break  in  the  journal  at  this  point  is  surely  significant. 
Faithfully  the  record  had  gone  on  for  two  and  a  quarter 
years  ;  but  now — silence.  For  seven  weeks  from  the  middle 
of  April,  lovely  weeks  of  spring,  there  was  no  entry.  First 
and  only  blank  in  those  revealing  pages,  how  much  the  very 
silence  has  to  tell  us  !  Yes,  he  was  face  to  face  with  the 
purpose  of  God  at  last.  Accept  it,  he  dare  not ;  escape  it, 
he  could  not.  And  so,  as  long  ago,  "  there  wrestled  a  man 
with  him  until  the  breaking  of  the  day." 

It  was  Sunday,  June  25,  a  quiet  summer  morning  by  the 
sea.  Worn  out  and  really  ill,  Hudson  Taylor  had  gone  to 
friends  at  Brighton,  and,  unable  to  bear  the  sight  of  rejoicing 
multitudes  in  the  house  of  God,  had  wandered  out  alone 
upon  the  sands  left  by  the  receding  tide.  It  was  a  peaceful 
scene  about  him,  but  inwardly  he  was  in  agony  of  spirit. 
A  decision  had  to  be  made  and  he  knew  it,  for  the  conflict 
could  no  longer  be  endured. 

"  Well,"  the  thought  came  at  last,  "  if  God  gives  us  a  band  \ 
of  men  for  inland  China,  and  they  go,  and  all  die  of  starvation 
even,  they  will  only  be  taken  straight  to  heaven  ;    and  if  one 
heathen  soul  is  saved,  would  it  not  be  well  worth  while  ?  " 

It  was  a  strange  way  round  to  faith — that  if  the  worst 
came  to  the  worst  it  would  still  be  worth  while.  But 
something  in  the  service  of  that  morning  seems  to  have 
come  to  mind.  God-consciousness  began  to  take  the  place 
of  unbelief,  and  a  new  thought  possessed  him  as  dawn 
displaces  night : 

Why,  if  we  are  obe5dng  the  Lord,  the  responsibility  rests 
with  Him,,  not  with  us  ! 

This,  brought  home  to  his  heart  in  the  power  of  the 
Spirit,  wrought  the  change  once  and  for  all. 


32  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

"  Thou,  Lord,"  he  cried  with  reUef  that  was  unutterable, 
"  Thou  shalt  have  all  the  burden  !  At  Thy  bidding,  as  Thy 
servant  I  go  forward,  leaving  results  with  Thee." 

For  some  time  the  conviction  had  been  growing  that  he 
ought  to  ask  for  at  any  rate  two  evangelists  for  each  of  the 
eleven  unoccupied  provinces,  and  two  for  Chinese  Tartary 
and  Tibet.  Pencil  in  hand  he  now  opened  his  Bible,  and 
with  the  boundless  ocean  breaking  at  his  feet  wrote  the 
simple  memorable  words  :  "  Prayed  for  twenty-four  mlling 
I  skilful  labourers  at  Brighton,  June  25,  1865.'' 

"  How  restfully  I  turned  away  from  the  sands,"  he  said, 

recalling  the  deliverance  of  that  hour.     "  The  conflict  ended, 

all  was  joy  and  peace.     I  felt  as  if  I  could  fly  up  the  hill  to  Mr, 

Pearse's  house.     And  how  I  did  sleep  that  night  !     My  dear 

/   wife  thought  Brighton  had  done  wonders  for  me,  and  so  it  had." 


CHAPTER   IV 

THE   MISSION   THAT  HAD   TO   BE 
1865.     Aet.  33. 

New  life,  evidently,  had  come  to  Hudson  Taylor  with  the 
decision  taken  that  June  Sunday  on  the  sands  at  Brighton, 
for  he  was  up  with  the  lark  next  morning  and  off  to  London 
at  6.30  A.M.  No  record  remains  of  that  day,  save  that  Mrs. 
Taylor  was  cheered  to  see  him  better,  and  that  he  went  to 
have  special  prayer  with  one  who  was  wishing  to  join  the 
mission,  whose  way  was  beset  with  difficulties.  But  next 
day  brought  just  the  practical  step  that  might  have  been 
expected  : 

June  22_ ;. .  Went  with  Mr.  Pearse  to  the  London  &  County  \ 
Bank,  and  opened  an  account  for  the  China  Inland  Mission,  j 
Paid  in  £10  :  o  :  o. 

It  js  the  first  appearance  of  the  new  name. 

Thereafter  the  little  journal  scintillates  with  its  repeti- 
tion, as  though  writing  it  in  full  were  in  itself  a  satisfaction 
Thus,  after  the  prayer  meeting  of  the  following  Saturday, 
July  I  : 

Gave  Miss  Faulding  a  receipt  for  a  pound  for  the  China 
Inland  Mission. 

July  3  :  Breakfasted  with  Lady  Radstock.  .  .  .  Mr.  Berger 
took  tea  with  us  and  stayed  till  7  p.m.  He  promised  £80  to  £100 
for  printing-press  and  type,  and  £150  towards  the  China  Inland 
Mission. 

July  4 :  Miss  Faulding  brought  3/6  from  Regent's  Park 
Chapel  for  the  Cjjina  Inland  Mission. 

33  D 


u 


34  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

It  is  all  so  sweet  and  natural — the  overflowing  of  a  young 
heart  just  as  full  as  a  mother's  with  her  first-born  ! 
0  And  then  came  days  of  activity  in  striking  contrast  with 
•■the  silence  of  preceding  weeks.  Complete  surrender  to  the 
'  will  of  God  not  only  set  the  joy-bells  ringing,  it  gave  the  clue 
to  much  that  before  had  seemed  perplexing,  and  started 
the  suspended  energies  on  a  clear  course.  Delays  and 
difficulties  explained  themselves,  and  how  thankful  Mr. 
Taylor  felt  for  the  restraining  Hand  that  had  kept  him  from 
leaving  England  previously,  and  had  returned  that  un- 
published manuscript  for  a  purpose  he  little  anticipated. 
Now  he  had  something  to  write  about,  something  definite 
to  lay  before  the  Lord's  people,  new  power  in  pleading  the 
cause  of  inland  China,  and  an  object  worthy  of  highest 
endeavour.  He  had  found  himself  at  last,  found  life's  best 
and  deepest,  not  in  the  way  of  his  own  choosing,  but  in  the 
"  good  works  which  God  had  before  ordained  "  that  he 
should  walk  in  them. 

The  change  soon  made  itself  felt,  and  the  little  house  at 
Coborn  Street  was  more  than  ever  busy.  An  unexpected 
introduction  to  Lady  Radstock  led  to  interesting  develop- 
ments, and  all  through  the  summer  and  autumn  Mr.  Taylor 
had  a  succession  of  engagements  that  brought  him  into 
touch  with  influential  circles.  He  was  preparing  also  for 
the  outgoing  of  Mr.  J.  W.  Stevenson,  who  for  some  months 
had  been  with  him  in  London,  and  of  a  newer  candidate 
from  Scotland,  Mr.  George  Stott.  In  the  midst  of  outfitting 
and  business  details  it  was  not  easy  to  run  off  for  luncheon 
with  titled  people,  and  drawing-room  meetings  at  which 
everybody  appeared  in  evening  dress.  It  rather  took  away 
Mr.  Taylor's  breath  at  first !  But  it  had  come  about  entirely 
apart  from  his  seeking,  and  in  such  a  way  as  to  leave  no 
doubt  that  the  One  Who  had  led  him  to  settle  in  East  London 
was  opening  to  him  also  the  drawing-rooms  of  the  West. 

A  week  only  after  his  visit  to  Brighton  he  had  gone  to 
spend  Sunday  with  his  sister  at  Bayswater,  doubtless  to 
seek  her  prayerful  sympathy  and  that  of  her  husband,  Mr. 
Benjamin  Broomhall,  in  the  step  just  taken.  As  the  hour 
for  public  worship  drew  near,  instead  of  gj>ing  as  usual  to 


THE  MISSION  THAT  HAD  TO  BE  35 

the  chapel  of  which  he  was  a  member,  Mr.  Taylor  sought 
definite  guidance  as  to  where  he  should  worship  that  morn- 
ing. Passing  down  Welbeck  Street,  it  came  to  him  to  join 
the  Httle  company  of  "  Open  Brethren  "  who  had  a  meeting 
there.  This  he  did,  finding  much  refreshment  in  fellowship 
with  them  at  the  Table  of  the  Lord. 

It  so  happened  that  among  the  requests  for  prayer  read 
out  toward  the  close  of  the  meeting  was  one  that  seemed 
in  danger  of  being  forgotten.  Nobody  took  it  up,  and  Mr. 
Taylor  feared  the  service  might  close  without  united  remem- 
brance of  this  special  need.  The  circumstances  were  quite 
ordinary — a  case  of  illness,  involving  long-continued  suffering 
— but,  stranger  though  he  was,  he  could  not  let  the  appeal 
for  spiritual  help  pass  unnoticed. 

"  Who  was  that  ?  "  inquired  the  Dowager  Lady  Radstock 
afterwards,  deeply  impressed  by  the  simplicity  and  helpful- 
ness of  his  prayer. 

On  learning  that  the  visitor  was  Hudson  Taylor,  a 
missionary  from  China,  she  desired  to  see  more  of  him.  The 
outcome  was  an  invitation  to  breakfast  at  Portland  Place 
the  following  morning,  and  the  commencement  of  a  friend- 
ship with  several  members  of  the  Waldegrave  family  that 
became  fruitful  in  blessing  for  China. 

Staying  with  Lady  Radstock  at  the  time  was  a  married 
daughter,  who  on  returning  to  her  Norfolk  home  arranged 
for  a  visit  from  Mr.  Taylor.  It  was  not  easy  to  get  away 
from  all  there  was  to  be  done,  but  Lady  Beauchamp  was 
planning  a  series  of  meetings  to  occupy  several  days,  and 
Mr,  Taylor  felt  the  importance  of  the  opportunity.  It  was 
only  by  working  all  night  he  finally  completed  arrangements 
for  the  outgoing  party  (Mr.  Stott  and  the  Stevensons),  and 
even  then  he  had  to  write  on  the  train  a  farewell  letter  full 
of  suggestions  and  messages.  Almost  bewildering  must  it 
have  been  to  turn  from  these  preoccupations  to  the  pro- 
gramme before  him  at  Langley  Park.  But  Sir  Thomas  and 
Lady  Beauchamp  and  their  family  were  thoroughly  in 
sympathy  with  the  aims  and  spirit  of  their  guest.  Even 
the  children  were  drawn  to  him,  and  loved  to  hear  his  stories 
about  China.     One  indeed,  who  as  a  member  of  the  Mission 


36  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

was  to  be  Mr.  Taylor's  chosen  companion  in  China  and 
elsewhere,  remembers  to  this  day  "  the  pig-tail  and  chop 
sticks  "  and  much  beside  that  came  with  that  welcome 
visitor  to  Langley  Park.^ 

So  warm  was  the  sympathy  of  the  parents  that  they 
desired  to  help  the  Mission  financially,  though  no  appeal 
had  been  made  for  money  and  no  collections  taken.  All 
the  more,  perhaps,  for  this  reason,  Mr.  Taylor's  host  and 
hostess  wished  to  give  as  a  matter  of  privilege  ;  but  their 
generosity  in  other  directions  had  left  them  little  in  hand  for 
the  purpose.  After  praying  over  it,  however,  the  thought 
suggested  itself : 

**  Why  not  trust  the  Lord  about  the  conservatories,  and 
'^'''contribute  the  amount  almost  due  for  insiurance  ?  " 

Langley  Park  possessed  extensive  greenhouses,  and 
winter  storms  were  apt  to  be  serious  near  that  east  coast. 
But,  definitely  committing  the  matter  to  Him  Who  controls 
wind  and  wave,  the  cheque  was  drawn  and  the  premium 
paid  into  the  Mission  treasury.  The  sequel  Mr.  Taylor 
never  heard  till  long  after,  nor  indeed  that  the  gift  had  been 
made  possible  in  this  way.  But  the  Lord  knew  ;  and  when 
a  few  months  later  a  storm  of  exceptional  violence  broke 
over  the  neighbourhood.  He  did  not  forget.  Much  glass 
was  shattered  for  miles  around,  but  the  conservatories  at 
Langley  Park  entirely  escaped. 

The  little  leather-bound  account-book  that  shows  the 
receipt  of  this  gift  on  the  day  of  Mr.  Taylor's  return  to 
London  shows  also  many  contributions  from  the  Portland 
Place  circle.  The  late  Lord  Radstock,  Lady  Beauchamp's 
brother,  became  a  warm  supporter  of  the  Mission,  and  was 
frequently  in  correspondence  with  Mr.  Taylor  at  this  time. 
Meetings  arranged  by  him  in  his  town  house  and  elsewhere 
laid  the  needs  of  China  on  many  hearts,  and  it  was  a  wonder- 
ful encouragement  in  launching  the  new  enterprise  to  have 
such  an  accession  of  sympathy. 
•  It  was  not  all  talk  and  meetings,  however,  in  those  early 

1  The  Rev.  Sir  Montagu  Beauchamp,  C.F.,  who  after  thirty  years  of 
devoted  service  in  China  has  recently  succeeded  to  the  title,  through  the 
lamented  death  of  his  brother,  Col.  Sir  Horace  Beauchamp,  Bart.,  at  the 
front. 


THE  MISSION  THAT  HAD  TO  BE  37 

days.  Though  the  branches  were  spreading  out,  the  roots 
were  striking  deeper  in  quiet  hours  of  thought  and  prayer. 
With  Mr.  Berger  especially,  many  were  the  consultations 
held  upon  practical  questions,  and  as  responsibilities  in- 
creased it  was  an  untold  comfort  to  have  his  help  in  bearing 
them. 

"  When  I  decided  to  go  forward,"  said  Mr.  Taylor  of  this 
summer,  "  Mr.  Berger  undertook  to  represent  us  at  home.  The 
thing  grew  up  gradually.  We  were  much  drawn  together.  The 
Mission  received  its  name  in  his  drawing-room.  Neither  of  us 
asked  or  appointed  the  other  :  it  just  was  so." 

And  what  shall  be  said  of  the  still  more  intimate  help  of 
the  life  nearest  of  all  to  his  own — the  tender  love,  the 
spiritual  inspiration  and  practical  wisdom  of  the  one  who 
shared  his  every  experience  ?  To  Mrs.  Taylor,  necessarily, 
the  new  departure  meant  more  than  to  any  other ;  for,  young 
as  she  was,  not  yet  thirty,  she  had  to  mother  the  Mission 
as  well  as  care  for  a  growing  family.  To  take  four  Uttle 
children  out  to  China  was  no  light  matter,  and  when  the 
object  in  view  is  remembered — nothing  less  than  to  plant 
messengers  of  the  Gospel  in  every  one  of  the  unopened 
provinces — a  mother's  heart  alone  can  realise  what  hers 
must  often  have  felt.  It  was  not  her  husband's  faith, 
however,  upon  which  she  leaned,  great  as  were  her  joy  and 
confidence  in  him.  From  girlhood,  orphaned  of  both 
parents,  she  had  put  to  the  test  for  herself  the  Heavenly 
Father's  faithfulness.  Family  burdens  and  the  pressure 
of  need  might  come,  and  this  immense  responsibility  be 
superadded,  but  her  resources  did  not  fail,  for  she  drew 
moment  by  moment  upon  "  all  the  fulness  of  God." 

The  chief  work  that  claimed  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  after 
the  decision  at  Brighton  was  that  of  completing  the  manu- 
script returned  by  Mr.  Lewis.  It  may  have  been  easy  to 
say,  "  Add  to  it,  let  it  cover  the  whole  field  and  be  published 
as  an  appeal  for  inland  China,"  but  to  carry  out  the  sugges- 
tion was  another  matter.  Little  information  was  to  be  had 
about  that  great  closed  land,  and  to  make  its  needs  real  and 
appealing  needed  a  touch  other  than  they  could  give.  The 
writing   meant   much   study,    thought,    and   prayer.     Too 


/ 


38  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

busy  during  the  week  to  6btain  quiet,  they  gave  what  time 
\  they  could  on  Sunday,  without  neglecting  public  worship, 
to  this  important  task.  Together  in  the  little  sitting-room 
at  Coborn  Street  they  prayed  and  wrote,  wrote  and  prayed. 
China's  Spiritual  Need  and  Claims  was  the  outcome. 

,'  "  Every  sentence  was  steeped  in  prayer,"  Mr.  Taylor  recalled. 
"  It  grew  up  while  we  were  writing — I  walking  up  and  down 
the  room  and  Maria  seated  at  the  table." 

Turning  the  pages  thoughtfully,  one  feels  again  the  power 
that  touched  and  moved  readers  of  that  book  for  more  than 
a  generation.  There  is  evidence  in  every  paragraph  not 
only  of  painstaking  study,  but  of  the  spirit  of  prayer  in 
which  it  was  written.  It  is  skilfully  adapted  to  its  purpose, 
and,  what  is  more,  one  stands  from  first  to  last  in  the  light 
of  God.  His  word  it  is  that  comes  to  one.  His  point  of  view 
from  which  there  is  no  escaping.  There  is  no  self  about  it, 
no  turning  of  the  thought  to  man.  The  writer  scarcely 
appears  in  the  whole  book.  Mr.  Berger  is  referred  to  by 
name,  and  so  are  the  members  of  the  Mission  already  in 
China  or  on  the  way  thither,  but  Hudson  Taylor  is  absent 
to  a  remarkable  degree. 

First,  very  briefly,  the  reader  is  reminded  that  every  act 
in  this  life  and  every  omission  too  has  a  direct  and  important 
bearing  on  the  future — his  own  and  that  of  others.  It  is 
pointed  out  that  we  are  to  pray  not  as  the  heathen  who  use 
vain  repetitions,  nor  as  the  worldly-minded  who  ask  princi- 
pally if  not  solely  for  their  own  benefit.  "  After  this  manner 
therefore  pray  ye,"  putting  the  kingdom  of  God  first,  and 
His  righteousness. 

How  this  is  to  be  done  is  set  before  us  in  the  example  of 
our  Lord  Himself  :  "  Let  this  mind  be  in  you  which  was  also 
in  Christ  Jesus."  How  did  He  act  in  view  of  the  sin  and 
suffering  of  a  lost  world,  in  view  of  His  knowledge  of  the 
will  of  God  ?  Was  it  not  these  things,  the  very  conditions 
we  too  have  to  meet,  that  brought  Him  out  of  His  Heaven 
to  limitless  depths  of  self -emptying,  even  to  "  the  death  of 
the  cross  "  ?  Grievously  have  His  people  failed  in  following 
that  example.     With  the  large  majority  of  our  fellow-men 


THE  MISSION  THAT  HAD  TO  BE  39 

still  destitute  of  the  knowledge  of  salvation,  how  can  we, 
owing  everything  to  the  sacrifice  of  the  Son  of  God,  remain 
comfortable  and  unconcerned  in  a  life  of  self-pleasing  ? 

Then,  turning  from  other  fields,  attention  is  centred 
upon  China — its  antiquity,  extent,  population,  early  efforts 
to  introduce  Christianity  among  its  people,  and  the  history 
of  Roman  Catholic  propaganda.  A  survey  of  Protestant 
missions  is  given,  showing  great  progress  since  the  days  of 
Morrison,  but  bringing  out  the  startling  fact  that  even  in 
the  seven  provinces  in  which  such  work  had  been  begun 
there  were  still  a  hundred  and  eighty -five  millions  **  utterly 
and  hopelessly  beyond  the  reach  of  the  Gospel."  What 
this  meant,  and  further,  that  beyond  these  again  lay  the 
eleven  inland  provinces — two  hundred  millions  more  without 
a  single  witness  for  Christ — is  emphasised  by  comparisons 
and  diagrams  prepared  with  the  very  heart's  blood  of  the 
writer.  As  one  reads,  the  mind  almost  reels  before  such  a 
situation.  No  wonder  this  man  is  burdened  !  No  wonder 
he  cannot  get  away  from  the  awful  sense  of  responsibility. 
And  he  looks  upon  it  all',  makes  the  reader  look  upon  it  all, 
with  God.  That  is  where  the  deep  solemnity  comes  in. 
One  is  standing  in  the  light  of  eternity,  in  the  presence  of 
the  crucified,  risen  Lord  of  Glory.  His  unconditional 
command,  '*  Go  ...  I  am  with  you  alway,'*  is  sounding 
on  and  on,  while  with  it  mingles  the  low  wail  of  thousands, 
passing  hour  by  hour  into  Christless  graves.  It  is  pro- 
foundly, unutterably  real.  "  A  million  a  month  in  China 
are  dying  without  God,"  and  we  who  have  received  in  trust 
the  Word  of  Life,  we  are  responsible.  It  was  not  China's 
need  alone  that  called  the  Inland  Mission  into  being,  it  was 
China* s  claim. 

The  overwhelming  greatness  of  the  task  before  the 
Mission  is  felt  rather  than  dwelt  upon,  for  yet  another 
Reality  shines  out  from  these  pages,  preoccupying  mind  and 
heart.  Than  the  greatness  of  the  need,  one  thing  only  is 
greater — the  fact  of  God  :  His  resources,  purposes,  faithful- 
ness, His  commands  and  promises.  "  All  power  is  given 
unto  Me  .  .  .  go  ye  therefore."  That  is  enough  ;  that  alone 
could  be  enough.     The  need  is  great,  immensely  great ;  but 


40  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

God  is  greater,  infinitely  greater.     And  this  God  the  writer 
knows,  has  proved,  trusts. 

Hence  it  follows  that  the  principles  of  the  new  Mission 
are  simply  an  adjustment  of  these  two  considerations — ^the 
need  to  be  met  and  God.  He  stands  behind  the  work  He 
has  called  into  being.  The  writer  has  no  other  resources, 
absolutely  none,  and  he  desires  no  other.  Every  problem 
resolves  itself  into  a  fresh  appeal  to  God,  for  there  can  be  no 
need  unmet  in  Him. 

We  have  to  do  with  One  Who  is  Lord  of  all  power  and  might, 
Whose  arm  is  not  shortened  that  it  cannot  save,  nor  His  ear 
heavy  that  it  cannot  hear  ;  with  One  Whose  unchanging  Word 
directs  us  to  ask  and  receive  that  our  joy  may  be  full,  to  open 
our  mouths  wide  that  He  may  fill  them  ;  and  we  do  well  to 
remember  that  this  gracious  God,  Who  has  condescended  to 
place  His  almighty  power  at  the  command  of  believing  prayer, 
looks  not  lightly  on  the  blood-guiltiness  of  those  who  neglect 
to  avail  themselves  of  it  for  the  benefit  of  the  perishing.  .  .  . 

Feeling,  on  the  one  hand,  the  solemn  responsibility  that  rests 
upon  us,  and  on  the  other  the  gracious  encouragements  that 
everywhere  meet  us  in  the  Word  of  God,  we  do  not  hesitate  to 
ask  the  great  Lord  of  the  Harvest  to  call  forth,  to  thrust  forth 
twenty-four  European  and  twenty-four  native  evangelists,  to 
plant  the  standard  of  the  Cross  in  the  eleven  unevangeHsed 
provinces  of  China  proper  and  in  Chinese  Tartary.  To  those 
who  have  never  been  called  to  prove  the  faithfulness  of  the 
Covenant-keeping  God  in  supplying,  in  answer  to  prayer  alone, 
the  every  need  of  His  servants,  it  might  seem  a  hazardous  experi- 
ment to  send  twenty-four  European  evangelists  to  a  distant 
heathen  land,  "  with  only  God  to  look  to"  ]  but  in  one  whose 
privilege  it  has  been  through  many  years  to  put  that  God  to  the 
test  in  varied  circumstances,  at  home  and  abroad,  by  land  and 
sea,  in  sickness  and  health,  in  dangers,  in  necessities  and  at  the 
gates  of  death,  such  apprehensions  would  be  wholly  inexcusable.^ 

1  "  The  writer  has  seen  God,  in  answer  to  prayer,  quell  the  raging  of 
the  storm,"  Mr,  Taylor  continued,  "  alter  the  direction  of  the  wind  and 
give  rain  in  the  midst  of  prolonged  drought.  He  has  seen  Him,  in  answer 
to  prayer,  stay  the  angry  passions  and  murderous  intentions  of  violent 
men,  and  bring  the  machinations  of  His  people's  foes  to  nought.  He  has 
seen  Him,  in  answer  to  prayer,  raise  the  dying  from  the  bed  of  death, 
when  human  aid  was  vain  ;  has  seen  Him  preserve  from  the  pestilence 
that  walketh  in  darkness,  and  from  the  destruction  that  wasteth  at  noon- 
day. For  more  than  eight  years  and  a  half  he  has  proved  the  faithfulness 
of  God  in  supplying  his  own  temporal  wants  and  the  needs  of  the  work  in 
which  he  has  been  engaged."  See  Hudson  Taylor  in  Early  Years  :  The 
Growth  of  a  Soul,  especially  pp.  429-492. 


THE  MISSION  THAT  HAD  TO  BE  4\ 

Instance  after  instance  is  given  from  Mr.  Taylor's  experi- 
ence of  direct,  unmistakable  answers  to  prayer,  and  the 
deduction  drawn  is  that  with  such  a  God  it  is  safe  and  wise 
to  go  forward  in  the  pathway  of  obedience — is  indeed  the 
only  safe  and  wise  thing  to  do. 

When  he  comes  to  touch  upon  the  practical  working 
of  the  Mission,  the  application  of  Scriptural  principles 
is  just  as  direct.  Not  much  is  said,  for  the  organisation 
is  of  the  simplest,  but  Bible  precedents  cast  light  on 
every  problem.  The  writer  is  dealing  with  an  unchanging 
God,  and  confidently  expects  Him  to  work  in  the  same 
way  still.  The  very  greatness  of  the  need,  considered  in 
the  light  of  Divine  not  human  resources,  called  for  methods 
as  new  and  distinctive  as  the  proposed  sphere  of  the  Mission 
itself. 

How  could  the  work  be  limited,  for  example,  to  any  one 
section  of  the  Church  of  Christ  ?  No  denomination,  however 
generous  its  support,  could  be  equal  to  it,  just  as  no  one  class 
in  society  could  provide  the  labourers  needed.  The  Mission 
must  be  free  to  accept  "  willing,  skilful  workers,*'  no  matter 
what  their  Church  connection  or  previous  training,  provided 
they  were  wise  to  win  souls,  men  and  women  who  knew  their 
God  and  could  sink  lesser  differences  in  the  one  great  bond 
of  union. 

Then  as  to  funds  :  how  could  the  Mission,  possessing 
nothing,  promise  stated  salaries  to  its  members  ?  How 
could  Mr.  Taylor  let  them  look  to  him  for  support  ?  All 
that  was  sent  in  answer  to  prayer  he  would  gladly  use  for  or 
distribute  among  his  fellow-workers,  but  more  than  that 
he  could  not  promise,  except  that  under  no  circumstances 
would  he  go  into  debt  for  the  Mission  any  more  than  for 
himself.  Each  individual  member  must  know  that  he  or 
she  was  sent  of  God,  and  must  be  able  to  trust  Him  for 
supplies — strength,  grace,  protection,  enablement  for  every 
emergency,  as  well  as  daily  bread.  No  other  basis  would  be 
possible.  If  the  Mission  were  to  be  fruitful,  were  to  continue 
at  all  amid  the  perils  that  must  be  faced,  it  could  only  be  as 
each  one  connected  with  it  contributed  his  quota  of  faith 
in  the  living  God. 


i( 


42  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

"  We  had  to  consider,"  Mr.  Taylor  said  of  this  period, 
"  whether  it  would  not  be  possible  for  members  of  various 
denominations  to  wori<:  together  on  simple,  evangelistic  Hues, 
without  friction  as  to  conscientious  differences  of  opinion  ? 
Prayerfully  concluding  that  it  would,  we  decided  to  invite  the 
co-operation  of  fellow-behevers  irrespective  of  denominational 
views,  who  fully  held  the  inspiration  of  God's  Word,  and  were 
willing  to  prove  their  faith  by  going  to  inland  China  with  only 
the  guarantee  they  carried  within  the  covers  of  their  pocket 
Bibles. 

"  That  Word  had  said,  '  Seek  first  the  Kingdom  of  God  and 
His  righteousness,  and  all  these  things  (food  and  raiment)  shall 
be  added  unto  you.'  If  any  one  did  not  believe  that  God  spoke 
the  truth,  it  would  be  better  for  him  not  to  go  to  China  to  pro- 
pagate the  faith.  If  he  did  believe  it,  surely  the  promise  sufficed. 
Again,  '  No  good  thing  will  He  withhold  from  them  that  walk 
uprightly.'  If  any  one  did  not  mean  to  walk  uprightly,  he  had 
better  stay  at  home  ;  if  he  did  mean  to  walk  uprightly,  he  had 
all  he  needed  in  the  shape  of  a  guarantee  fund.  God  owns  all 
the  gold  and  silver  in  the  world,  and  the  cattle  on  a  thousand 
hills.     We  need  not  be  vegetarians. 

"  We  might  indeed  have  had  a  guarantee  fund  if  we  had 
wished  it ;  but  we  felt  it  was  unneeded  and  would  do  harm. 
Money  wrongly  placed  and  money  given  from  wrong  motives  are 
both  to  be  greatly  dreaded.  We  can  afford  to  have  as  little  as 
the  Lord  chooses  to  give,  but  we  cannot  afford  to  have  un- 
consecrated  money,  or  to  have  money  placed  in  the  wrong 
position.  Far  better  have  no  money  at  aU,  even  to  buy  food 
with  ;  for  there  are  plenty  of  ravens  in  China,  and  the  Lord 
could  send  them  again  with  bread  and  flesh.  .  .  . 

"  Our  Father  is  a  very  experienced  One.  He  knows  very 
well  that  His  children  wake  up  with  a  good  appetite  every 
morning,  and  He  always  provides  breakfast  for  them,  and  does 
not  send  them  supperless  to  bed  at  night.  'Thy  bread  shaU 
be  given  thee,  and  thy  water  shall  be  sure.'  He  sustained  three 
million  Israelites  in  the  wilderness  for  forty  years.  We  do  not 
expect  He  will  send  three  miUion  missionaries  to  China  ;  but  if 
He  did.  He  would  have  ample  means  to  sustain  them  aU.  Let 
us  see  that  we  keep  God  before  our  eyes  ;  that  we  walk  in  His 
ways  and  seek  to  please  and  glorify  Him  in  everything,  great 
and  small.  Depend  upon  it,  God's  work  done  in  God's  way 
-.^will  never  lack  God's  supplies." 

It  was  men  and  women  of  faith,  therefore,  who  were 
needed  for  the  Inland  Mission,  prepared  to  depend  on  God 


THE  MISSION  THAT  HAD  TO  BE  43 

alone,  satisfied  with  poverty  should  He  deem  it  best,  and 
confident  that  His  Word  cannot  be  broken. 

Much  else  comes  out  in  these  earnest  pages,  and  much 
that  is  not  said  is  significant  by  its  absence.  There  is  no 
mention  even  of  a  Committee,  no  reliance  upon  organisation 
or  great  names.  The  entire  direction  of  the  Mission  was  to 
be  in  the  hands  of  its  founder,  himself  the  most  experienced 
of  its  members,  who  like  a  General  on  active  service  would 
be  with  his  forces  in  the  field.  So  natural  does  this  arrange- 
ment seem  that  one  hardly  recognises  the  greatness  of  the 
innovation,  or  that  in  this  as  in  other  new  departures 
Hudson  Taylor  was  making  a  contribution  of  exceeding 
value  to  the  high  politics  of  missions.  He  had  simply 
learned  from  painful  experience  how  much  a  missionary 
may  have  to  suffer,  and  the  work  be  hampered,  if  not  im- 
perilled, by  being  under  the  control  of  those  who,  however 
well-intentioned,  have  no  first-hand  knowledge  of  its  condi- 
tions, and  are,  moreover,  at  the  other  side  of  the  world. 

Another  striking  absence  is  that  of  any  pleading  for 
financial  help.  It  is  mentioned  that  an  annual  expenditure 
of  five  thousand  pounds  might  be  anticipated  when  the 
outgoing  party  of  ten  or  twelve  should  be  added  to  those 
already  on  the  field.  Mr.  Berger's  address  is  given  as  Mr. 
Taylor's  representative  in  England,  to  whom  gifts  might  be 
sent  by  any  desiring  to  have  fellowship  with  the  work.  And 
for  the  rest,  the  quiet  words  express  a  sense  of  wealth  rather 
than  need,  *'  although  the  wants  are  large,  they  will  not 
exhaust  the  resources  of  Our  Father." 

Finally,  there  is  not  a  word  about  Government  protection 
or  dependence  upon  treaty  rights.  Many  instances  are 
given  of  Divine  protection  in  the  dangers  inseparable  from 
pioneering  work  such  as  the  Mission  looked  forward  to. 
Unarmed,  in  native  dress,  and  claiming  no  aid  from  Consular 
authorities,  the  writer  had  found  times  of  peril  to  be  always 
times  of  proving  the  watchful  care  of  One  Who  is  a  refuge 
better  than  foreign  flag  or  gunboat.  It  is  God  who  looms 
large,  not  man. 

"  He  can  raise  up,  He  will  raise  up  '  wiUing,  skilful  men  * 
for  every  department  of  our  service,"  was  the  quiet  conclusion. 


44  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

"  All  we  are  now  proposing  to  do  is  to  lay  hold  on  His  faithful- 
ness Who  has  called  us  into  this  service,  and  in  obedience  to  His 
call  and  rehance  on  His  power  to  enlarge  the  sphere  of  our 
operations,  for  the  glory  of  His  name  Who  alone  doeth  wondrous 
things. 

"  The  question,  however,  might  be  raised  as  to  whether  the 
interior  of  China,  though  evidently  needing  the  Gospel  and 
nominally  open  to  us  by  treaty-right,  will  in  point  of  fact  prove 
accessible  ?  We  would  answer  this  question  by  another  :  When 
the  Lord  Jesus  gives  a  definite  command,  is  it  our  place  to  ask 
whether  it  can  be  obe^'ed  or  not  ?  The  terms  of  His  command 
are  expUcit  .  .  .  and  He  answers  every  objection,  meets  every 
difficulty  at  the  very  outset  by  assuring  us  that  all  power  is 
given  unto  Him  in  heaven  and  on  earth  ;  that  He  Who  is  true, 
and  therefore  can  neither  fail  nor  forget,  Who  hath  the  key  of 
David  to  open  or  to  shut  as  pleaseth  Him,  is  with  us  always, 
even  unto  the  end  of  the  world. 

"  The  dangers  and  difi&culties  will  be  neither  few  nor  small, 
but  with  Jesus  for  our  Leader  we  may  safely  follow  on.  These 
dangers,  difficulties  and  trials,  while  leading  to  a  deeper  realisa- 
tion of  our  own  weakness,  poverty  and  need,  will  constrain  us 
also  to  lean  more  constantly,  to  draw  more  largely,  to  rest  more 
impUcitly  on  the  strength,  the  riches,  the  fulness  of  Jesus.  '  In 
the  world  ye  shall  have  tribulation,'  but  '  in  Me  .  .  .  peace,' 
will  be  the  experience  of  those  engaged  in  the  work.  If  it  be 
for  God's  glory,  for  the  benefit  of  His  cause  and  the  true  interest 
of  those  concerned,  the  times  of  greatest  trial  and  danger  will  be 
the  times  when  His  delivering  power  wiU  shine  forth  most  con- 
spicuously ;  and  if  otherwise,  His  sustaining  grace  will  prove 
sufficient  for  the  weakest  servant  in  the  conflict.  .  .  . 

'*  Let  but  devoted  labourers  be  found,  who  will  prove  faithful 
to  God,  and  there  is  no  reason  to  fear  that  God  will  not  prove 
faithful  to  them.  He  will  set  before  them  an  open  door,  and 
will  esteem  them  of  more  value  than  the  sparrows  and  the  lilies 
that  He  clothes  and  feeds.  He  will  be  with  them  in  danger, 
in  dif&culty,  in  perplexity  ;  and  while  they  may  be  utter  weak- 
ness. He  wiU  work  through  them  in  power.  They  may  cast 
their  bread  upon  the  waters,  but  His  Word  shall  not  return  unto 
Him  void  :  it  shall  accomplish  that  which  He  pleases,  and  prosper 
in  the  thing  whereto  He  sends  it.  .  .  .  It  is  upon  past  Ebenezers 
we  build  our  Jehovah- Jireh.  '  They  that  know  Thy  Name  will 
put  their  trust  in  Thee.'  " 

Little  wonder  that  faith  of  this  sort,  so  uncalculating 
and  withal  so  practical,  made  a  strong  appeal  to  Christian 


THE  MISSION  THAT  HAD  TO  BE  45 

hearts  !  Finished  by  the  middle  of  October,  the  manuscript 
was  first  of  all  submitted  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Berger  at  Saint 
Hill. 

"  The  Lord  caused  them  to  be  interested/'  we  read  in 
Mr.  Taylor's  journal. 

Interested  they  certainly  were  !  for  Mr.  Berger  forthwith 
undertook  to  meet  the  expense  of  publication,  and  urged 
that  the  pamphlet  should  be  ready  for  the  Mildmay  Confer- 
ence, to  be  held  ten  days  later.  The  earlier  sheets  were 
already  in  the  press,  and  the  goodwill  of  the  printer  was  not 
lacking.  By  sitting  up  all  night  to  correct  proofs,  Mr. 
Taylor  managed  to  return  the  last  batch  in  time,  and  had 
the  satisfaction  of  receiving  a  consignment  for  distribution 
on  the  opening  day  of  the  meetings. 

Only  six  weeks  previously  he  had  been  in  Scotland  and 
had  found  himself  at  Perth,  as  we  have  seen,  during  a 
similar  Convention.  The  deep  impression  made  by  his 
address  on  that  occasion  had  affected  Mildmay  circles,  for 
the  latter  was  the  mother-conference  with  which  Perth  was 
in  close  connection.  Convened  by  the  Rev.  W.  Pennefather, 
Vicar  of  St.  Jude's,  it  had  a  definite  Church  of  England 
element,  but  its  platform  included  ministers  and  laymen  of 
other  connections,  and  from  the  Continent  as  well  as  Great 
Britain  and  America.  Deeply  spiritual  in  tone,  it  attracted 
the  leaders  of  the  young  evangelistic  movements  that  had 
sprung  out  of  the  Great  Revival,  to  whom  Mr.  Taylor's  line 
of  things  made  naturally  a  strong  appeal.  With  Mr.  Penne- 
father's  cordial  approval,  the  pamphlet  was  distributed 
among  the  many  hundreds  who  attended  the  Conference, 
and  few  went  away  from  those  days  of  waiting  upon  God 
without  a  quickened  sense  of  responsibility  in  view  of 
China's  need. 

Many  were  the  letters  that  reached  Mr.  Taylor  during 
the  weeks  that  followed,  showing  that  the  book  was  doing 
its  quiet  work,  and  that  in  widely  differing  circles  the 
C.I.M.  was  hailed  with  thankfulness  as  a  Mission  that  had 
to  be.  Offers  of  service  came  from  the  students'  hall,  the 
business  counter,  and  the  mechanic's  shop.  Invitations  for 
meetings  were  numerous,  and  so  great  was  the  demand  for 


46  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

literature  that  China's  Spiritual  Need  and  Claims  had  to  be 
reprinted  within  three  weeks. 

"  I  have  read  your  pamphlet  on  my  way  down  here,"  wrote 
Lord  Radstock  from  the  Isle  of  Wight,  "  and  have  been  greatly 
stirred  by  it.  ...  I  trust  you  may  be  enabled  by  the  Holy 
Ghost  to  speak  words  which  shall  thrust  forth  many  labourers 
into  the  vineyard.  Dear  Brother,  enlarge  your  desires  !  Ask 
for  a  hundred  labourers,  and  the  Lord  will  give  them  to  you." 

Reinforced  by  a  cheque  for  a  hundred  pounds,  this  charac- 
teristic letter  was  doubly  welcome,  though  its  "  ask  for  a 
hundred  labourers  "  must  have  been  rather  startling  in  that 
day  of  small  things  ! 

Meanwhile  preparations  for  a  party  of  ten  or  twelve  were 
going  forward,  and  in  the  midst  of  other  engagements  proved 
almost  more  than  Mr.  Taylor  could  manage.  The  Coborn 
Street  house,  far  from  being  too  large,  was  now  wholly 
inadequate,  and  the  next-door  premises  falling  vacant,  they 
were  glad  to  rent  them  also,  thus  doubling  their  accommoda- 
tion. 

"  The  revision  is  now  going  on,"  he  wrote  to  his  mother  in 
November.  "  We  have  reprinted  the  pamphlet,  and  have 
missionary  boxes  on  the  way.  I  am  preparing  a  magazine  for 
the  Mission,  furnishing  a  house  completely,  setting  up  two  fonts 
of  type  for  China,  teaching  four  pupils  Chinese,  receiving  appUca- 
tions  from  candidates  and  lecturing  or  attending  meetings  con- 
tinually— one  night  only  excepted  for  the  last  month.  I  am 
also  preparing  a  New  Year's  address  on  China,  for  use  in  Sunday 
Schools,  and  a  missionary  map  of  the  whole  country.  .  .  .  Join 
us  in  praying  for  funds  and  for  the  right  kind  of  labourers,  also 
that  others  may  be  kept  back  or  not  accepted,  for  many  are 
offering." 

Was  there  a  need  just  then  for  a  reminder  that  work 
cannot  take  the  place  of  prayer  ?  Overwhelmingly  busy,  it 
certainly  would  not  have  been  surprising  if  that  little  circle 
had  been  tempted  to  curtail  quiet  times  of  waiting  upon  God. 
It  was  in  love,  in  any  case,  that  the  closing  year  was  shadowed 
by  an  anxiety  so  distressing  as  to  bring  them  to  their  knees 
as  never  before.  In  one  of  the  houses,  strangely  quiet  now, 
Mrs.  Taylor  lay  in  a  critical  condition.     Serious  illness  had 


THE  MISSION  THAT  HAD  TO  BE  47 

so  reduced  her  strength  that  when  an  operation  became 
necessary  there  was  httle  hope  that  she  could  Uve  through  it. 

*'  It  is  very  solemn  to  feel  that  aU  our  married  happiness 
may  be  so  near  its  close/'  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  to  his  parents  in 
Bamsley.  "  She  is  resting  happily  in  Jesus.  .  .  .  Ask  grace 
for  me  to  mean  and  say,  '  Thy  wiU  be  done.'  " 

Three  weeks  later,  his  loved  one  spared  to  him,  Mr. 
Taylor  was  reviewing  the  progress  made  since  that  memorable 
Sunday  at  Brighton  with  all  that  it  had  brought.  Besides 
the  eight  fellow-workers  already  in  China,  twenty  or  thirty 
others  were  desiring  to  join  the  Mission. 

"  How  much  we  need  guidance  both  for  them  and  for  our- 
selves," he  wrote  to  the  wider  circle  of  his  prayer-helpers.  "  We 
have  undertaken  to  work  in  the  interior  of  China,  looking  to  the 
Lord  for  help  of  all  kinds.  This  we  can  only  do  in  His  strength. 
And  if  we  are  to  be  much  used  of  Him,  we  must  Uve  very  near 
to  Him." 

The  last  day  of  December  was  set  apart,  therefore,  as  a 
day  of  fasting  and  prayer  at  Coborn  Street,  fitly  closing  the 
year  that  had  witnessed  the  inauguration  of  a  Mission  so 
completely  dependent  upon  God. 


CHAPTER  V 

ACCORDING  TO  HIS   WORKING 
1866.    Aet.  34. 

To  understand  aright  the  fniitfulness  of  this  period  it  should 
//be  borne  in  mind  that  Mr.   Taylor,   among  others,   was 
■  ^  reaping  the  aftermath  of  the  great  Revival  of  1859.     That 
wonderful  spiritual  awakening  had  not  only  swept  thousands 
into  the  Church  of  Christ ;    it  had  prepared  the  way  for  a 
new  order  of  things,  an  up-springing  of  individual  faith  and 
effort,  characterised  by  love  for  souls  and  new  resourceful- 
ness in  seeking  their  salvation.     It  was  a  day  of  new  depar- 
tures in  the  development  of  lay  agency,  and  a  striking 
fulfilment  might  be  seen  in  many  directions  of  the  prophecy 
\   of  Joel :    "  Also  upon  the  servants  and  the  handmaids  in 
■vJ:hose  days  will  I  pour  out  my  Spirit." 

To  mention  a  few  only  of  the  evangelical  movements 
that  had  their  beginnings  in  that  formative  time  :  Mrs. 
Ranyard  was  pioneering  a  way  for  the  work  of  Biblewomen, 
and  Mrs.  Bayley  for  that  of  Mothers'  Meetings ;  Miss 
Macpherson  had  just  commenced  Gospel  services  in  Bird 
Fair,  and  the  rescue  of  little  waifs  from  the  lowest  slums 
of  London ;  Miss  Robarts,  Mr.  (afterwards  Sir  George) 
WilUams,  and  others,  were  laying  the  foundations  of  the 
Young  Men's  and  Young  Women's  Christian  Associations ; 
Mrs.  Daniels  and  her  helpers  were  developing  work  for 
soldiers,  with  their  special  needs ;  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Penne- 
father,  at  Mildmay,  were  launching  out  in  the  training  of 
Deaconesses  for  all  manner  of  home  missions.  All  these 
were  making  use   of   the  consecrated  energies   of  young 

48 


ACCORDING  TO  HIS  WORKING  49 

converts  in  their  first  love,  many  of  them  comparatively 
"  unlearned  and  ignorant  men,"  but  no  opening  had  as  yet 
been  found  for  a  similar  employment  of  lay  agency  on  the 
foreign  field. 

"  When  travelling  in  England,  Scotland,  and  the  north  of 
Ireland  in  1859  ^.nd  '60,"  wrote  a  Christian  leader  from  the 
Continent,  "  I  repeatedly  asked  myself,  '  Where  is  the  channel 
through  which  simple-hearted  labourers  brought  to  Christ  through 
these  remarkable  Revivals,  wishing  to  devote  themselves  to 
missionary  work  in  foreign  lands  may  reach  their  object  ?  '  But 
I  found  no  such  channel.  All  the  colleges  for  missionary  training 
require  a  prehminary  education  which  one  would  seek  in  vain  in 
youths  of  this  sort.  To  raise  a  missionary  agency  of  a  humbler 
kind  seems  to  me  to  be  a  special  design  of  our  Lord  at  this  juncture, 
for  the  carr3dng  out  of  which  He  has  prepared  His  instruments 
in  different  countries,  independently  of  each  other."  ^ 

Into  this  prepared  soil  the  seed-thought  of  the  China 
Inland  Mission  was  providentially  cast.  It  could  not  have 
come  at  a  better  time.  Christian  hearts  were  kindled  to 
fresh  devotion,  drawn  together  in  a  new  sense  of  oneness, 
and  awakened  to  the  fact  that  God  by  His  Holy  Spirit  was 
using  a  class  of  workers  hitherto  largely  excluded  from  the 
spiritual  ministries  of  the  Church.  Manifestly  the  Mission 
was  suited  to  meet  an  urgent  need.  New  fields  must  be 
entered,  new  gifts  called  forth,  and  here  came  an  organisation 
embodying  these  very  ideas  with  a  quiet  faith  and  simplicity 
that  commended  itself  to  the  spiritually  minded. 

"  The  very  thing,  coiqe  let  us  help  it  I"  was  the  response 
awakened  in  many  a  heart. 

Young  people  in  workshop  and  office  heard  of  it  and  were 
encouraged.  Perhaps  in  such  a  mission,  place  might  be 
found  for  faith  and  love  even  without  much  learning  of  the 
schools  ?  So  thought  Rudland,  for  example,  at  his  forge 
In  a  Cambridgeshire  village,  when  a  printed  report  of  Mr. 
Taylor's  address  at  Perth  came  to  him  as  a  call  from  God 
In  a  neighbouring  farmhouse  Hved  Mr.  Merry,  his  Sunday 
School  teacher,  who  with  Mrs.  Merry  and  her  sister.  Miss 
Annie  Macpherson,  had  been  the  means  of  blessing  to  many 

1  Herr  Spittler,  connected  with  "  The  Pilgrim  Mission  "  of  St.  Chris- 
chona,  near  Basel,  Switzerland. 


50  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

in  the  neighbourhood.  They  had  visited  London  to  see 
something  of  the  Revival  movement,  and  through  them  its 
quickening  influences  had  reached  Eversden  and  the  sur- 
rounding villages.  Meetings  had  been  held  in  the  farm- 
house kitchen  at  which  Rudland  and  several  of  his  com- 
panions were  converted,  and  great  was  the  joy  with  which 
they  gathered  round  the  open  Bible  with  Mr.  Merry  as 
their  teacher,  beside  the  big  log-fire.  When  the  young  man 
wanted  to  know  more  about  China  and  the  Inland  Mission 
it  was  to  these  friends  he  turned.  But  the  Merrys  could 
tell  him  nothing.  Miss  Macpherson  could  tell  him  nothing, 
and  even  a  minister  in  Cambridge  whom  he  walked 
miles  to  consult  was  unable  to  supply  information.  Still, 
Rudland  could  not  forget  the  appeal  of  those  Christless 
millions  ;  and  when  Miss  Macpherson,  on  her  return  to 
London,  sent  him  a  ticket  for  the  Mildmay  Conference 
(1865)  it  immediately  came  to  him  that  there  he  might 
meet  Mr.  Taylor. 

But  his  employer  had  also  a  great  desire  to  go  to  the 
Conference.  He  and  Rudland  could  not  both  be  spared 
from  the  forge.  It  cost  a  struggle — but  the  younger  man, 
feeling  it  was  what  the  Lord  would  have  done  in  his  place, 
gave  up  his  cherished  hope  and  offered  his  master  the 
ticket.  Before  leaving,  the  latter  promised  to  write  about 
the  meetings  and  bring  back  a  full  report,  but  for  reasons 
best  known  to  himself  he  said  nothing  about  China  or  the 
Inland  Mission.  Unable  to  learn  even  whether  Mr.  Taylor 
had  been  at  the  Conference,  and  not  knowing  where  or  how 
to  reach  him,  Rudland  was  much  perplexed.  He  could  not 
get  away  from  the  burden  of  souls  in  China — a  thousand 
every  hour  of  the  day  and  night  perishing  "  without  God." 
On  the  wall  of  the  forge  two  passages  of  Scripture  daily 
confronted  him,  "  Quench  not  the  Spirit  "  and  "  To  him  that 
knoweth  to  do  good  and  doeth  it  not,  to  him  it  is  sin."  Yet 
what  could  he  do  but  pray  ? 

Meanwhile  his  master,  loath  perhaps  to  lose  so  good  an 
assistant,  sought  to  discourage  the  ambition  Rudland  had 
at  heart. 

"  See/'  he  said  one  day  with  a  Chinese  book  in  his  hand. 


ACCORDING  TO  HIS  WORKING  51 

"  this  is  the  language  they  talk  over  there  !  Do  you  think 
you  could  ever  learn  it  ?  '* 

"  Has  anybody  else  learned  it  ?  *'  was  the  quiet  reply. 

"  A  few." 

"  Then  why  not  I  ?  " 

And  the  yellow  pages  with  their  strange  hieroglyphics 
only  made  him  pray  the  more  that  the  Lord  would  open  his 
way  to  China. 

After  that  it  was  not  long  before  another  book  reached 
him  with  a  letter  from  Miss  Macpherson.  Settled  now  in 
East  London  she  had  found  the  answer  to  Rudland's  ques- 
tion. The  pamphlet  was  China's  Spiritual  Need  and  Claims, 
and  the  letter  asked  him  to  join  her  the  following  Saturday 
in  going  to  the  prayer  meeting  at  Coborn  Street.  Too 
thankful  for  words,  the  young  man  put  the  letter  before  his 
master. 

''  Yes,  you  must  take  a  day  or  two,"  said  the  blacksmith. 
"  But  as  sure  as  you  cross  this  threshold  you  are  on  your 
way  to  China  !  " 

With  what  interest  the  pamphlet  was  studied  as  Rudland 
travelled  up  to  London,  and  how  eagerly  he  drank  in  every 
impression  of  the  missionary  circle  at  Coborn  Street !  That 
prayer  meeting — could  he  ever  forget  it  ?  The  crowded 
room,  the  map  on  the  wall,  the  freedom  of  spirit,  the  un- 
ceasing flow  of  prayer  and  praise  all  deeply  impressed  him. 
But  it  was  the  manifest  presence  of  God  and  earnestness  of 
all  concerned  that  drew  to  the  Mission  that  day  one  of  its 
most  successful  labourers.^  In  Mr.  Taylor  he  found  a  man 
of  absorbing  purpose,  to  whom  perishing  souls  in  China  were 
real,  and  who  lived  for  one  thing  only,  to  fulfil  the  purpose 
of  God  in  their  salvation.  Reality,  simplicity,  intensity — 
it  was  the  same  impression  ever5rwhere,  the  very  essence  of 
the  new  Mission. 

But  how  easy  with  such  a  spirit  to  overlook  the  con- 

1  From  Mr.  Rudland's  centre  at  Tai-chow-fu  three  other  cities  were 
opened  during  his  lifetime  and  thirty-seven  out-stations.  In  connection  O 
with  these,  over  3000  persons  have  been  baptized  ;  and  at  the  time  of 
Mr.  Rudland's  death,  in  191 2,  there  were  more  than  1500  communicants. 
He  had  translated  into  the  local  dialect  the  v/Jiole  New  Testament  and  a 
large  part  of  the  Old,  printing  himself  edition  after  edition  on  the  Mission 
press,  for  which  he  was  responsible. 


52  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

sideration  due  to  the  work  of  others  !  Mr.  Ta^dor  had  now 
many  openings.  He  was  a  man  with  a  message,  and  a 
message  Christian  people  wanted  to  hear  irrespective  of  the 
denomination  he  or  they  might  represent.  The  Mission 
drew  its  friends  and  workers  from  church  and  chapel  alike, 
and  the  proposed  sphere  of  its  operations  was  so  vast  as  to 
call  forth  unusual  interest. 

It  might  have  been,  as  Mr.  Taylor  felt  from  the  first, 
quite  possible  to  rob  Peter  to  pay  Paul,  or  in  other  words 
to  deflect  interest  and  gifts  from  previously  existing  channels. 
Every  effort  on  behalf  of  China  and  other  heathen  lands 
was  more  than  needed,  and  he  longed  that  the  new  work 
should,  by  the  blessing  of  God,  be  helpful  to  all  and  a  hin- 
drance to  none.  But  how  to  avoid  trespassing,  in  this 
sense,  on  the  preserves  of  others  was  a  problem  not  easy  of 
solution. 

To  cut  at  the  root  of  the  difficulty,  he  and  Mr.  Berger, 
his  chief  adviser,  saw  that  the  faith-principles  of  the  Mission 
must  be  carried  to  the  point  of  making  no  appeals  for  money 
nor  even  taking  a  collection.  If  the  Mission  could  be 
sustained  by  the  faithful  care  of  God  in  answer  to  prayer 
and  prayer  alone,  without  subscription  lists  or  solicitation 
of  any  kind  for  funds,  then  it  might  grow  up  among  the 
older  societies  without  the  danger  of  diverting  gifts  from 
their  accustomed  channels.  It  might  even  be  helpful  to 
other  agencies  by  directing  attention  to  the  Great  Worker, 
and  affording  a  practical  illustration  of  its  underlying  prin- 
ciple that  *'  God  Himself,  God  alone,  is  sufficient  for  God's 
own  work." 

Was  money  after  all  the  chief  thing,  or  was  it  really 
true  that  a  walk  that  pleases  God  and  ensures  spiritual 
blessing  is  of  more  importance  in  His  service  ?  But  for 
the  quiet  years  in  Beaumont  Street  in  which,  like  Paul  in 
Arabia  or  Moses  at  the  backside  of  the  desert,  Hudson 
Taylor  had  been  shut  in  with  God,  he  might  have  given  a 
different  answer  to  this  and  many  other  questions. 

r  "  In  my  shortsightedness,"  he  wrote  of  that  period  largely 
occupied  with  work  on  the  Ningpo  Testament,  "  I  had  seen 
nothing  beyond  the  use  that  the  book  with  its  marginal  references 


ACCORDING  TO  HIS  WORKING  53 

would  be  to  the  native  Christians.     But  I  have  often  realised 
since  that  without  those  months  of  feeding  and  feasting  on  the 
Word  of  God  I  should  have  been  quite  unprepared  to  form,  on 
its  present  basis,  a  mission  like  the  China  Inland  Mission.     In  ' 
the  study  of  that  Divine  Word  I  learned  that  to  obtain  successful 
labourers,   not   elaborate   appeals   for   help,   but   first,   earnest 
prayer  to  God  '  to  thrust  forth  labourers,'  and  second,  the  deepen-  ; 
ing  of  the  spiritual  life  of  the  Church,  so  that  men  should  be 
unable  to  stay  at  home,  were  what  was  needed.     I. saw  that  the  \ 
Apostolic  plan  was  not  to  raise  ways  and  means,  but  to  go  an(f  ] 
do  tKe  work,  trusting  in  His  sure  promise  Who  has  said,  '  Seek  / 
ye  first  the  Kingdom  of  God  and  His  righteousness,  and  aU  these  ^ 
things  shaU  be  added  unto  you.'  "  — ^ 

The  chief  need,  as  he  saw  it,  was  faith  in  God  for  such  an'' 
increase  of  spiritual  life  among  His  people  as  to  produce  the 
missionary  spirit.     Not  money,  not  the  collection  was  to 
him  the  object  of  a  meeting,  but  to  get  people  under  the 
pov/er  of  the  Word  and  into  fellowship  with  God. 

"  If  our  hearts  are  right,"  he  often  said,  "  we  may  count  upon 
the  Holy  Spirit's  working  through  us  to  bring  others  into  deeper 
fellowship  with  God — the  way  the  work  began  at  Pentecost. 
We  do  not  need  to  say  much  about  the  C.I.M.  Let  people  see 
God  working,  let  God  be  glorified,  let  believers  be  made  hoHer, 
happier,  brought  nearer  to  Him,  and  they  wiU  not  need  to  be 
asked  to  help." 

And  the  satisfaction  of  that  v/ay  of  working  was  that 
people  would  be  sure  to  help  their  own  missions  first,  the 
Church  work  for  which  they  were  responsible.  They  would 
probably  increase  their  gifts,  indeed,  to  those  objects,  for 
there  is  no  heart  as  generous  as  one  that  is  "  satisfied  with 
favour  and  full  with  the  blessing  of  the  Lord."  And  if  they 
wanted,  over  and  above,  to  help  the  China  Inland  Mission, 
such  gifts  would  be  given  with  prayer  and  followed  by 
prayer  that  would  immeasurably  increase  their  value.  It 
was  no  figure  of  speech  with  Mr.  Taylor  when  he  said,  as  he 
often  did,  that  he  would  rather  have  a  consecrated  shilling, 
representing  real  spiritual  fellowship,  than  an  unconsecrated 
pound  ;  and  gifts  given  spontaneously,  apart  from  solicita- 
tion or  the  pressure  even  of  a  collection,  were  more  likely 
to  have  that  quality.]    It  was  a  strange  sort  of  deputation 


54  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

work,  perhaps,  but  it  left  the  speaker  free  in  spirit,  occupied 
with  God  rather  than  man,  and  more  eager  to  give  than  to  get. 

Then  there  were  other  problems,  many  of  them — such  as 
how  to  test  and  train  candidates,  how  to  organise  the  Mission 
in  China  and  carry  on  the  work  at  home.  But  though  these 
were  duly  considered  among  the  friends  who  met  at  Saint 
Hill,  Mr.  Berger's  illustration  of  the  tree  was  manifestly  in 
point. 

*'  You  must  wait  for  it  to  grow,*'  he  said,  "  before  there  can 
be  much  in  the  way  of  branches.  First  you  have  only  a  slender 
stem  with  a  few  leaves  or  shoots.  Then  little  twigs  appear. 
Ultimately  these  may  become  great  limbs,  all  but  separate  trees : 
but  it  takes  time  and  patience.  If  there  is  Hfe,  it  will  develop 
after  its  own  order." 

Thus  they  were  content  with  little  to  begin  with  in  the 
way  of  organisation.  Essential,  spiritual  principles  were 
talked  over  with  the  candidates,  and  clearly  understood  as 
the  basis  of  the  Mission.  A  few  simple  arrangements  were 
agreed  to  in  Mr.  Berger's  presence,  that  was  all. 

"  We  came  out  as  God's  children  at  God's  command,"  was 
Mr.  Taylor's  summing  up  of  the  matter,  "to  do  God's  work, 
depending  on  Him  for  suppUes  ;  to  wear  native  dress  and  go 
inland.  I  was  to  be  the  leader  in  China,  and  my  direction 
implicitly  followed.  There  was  no  question  as  to  who  was  to 
determine  points  at  issue." 

In  the  same  way  Mr.  Berger  was  responsible  at  home. 
He  would  correspond  with  candidates,  receive  and  forward 
contributions,  pubhsh  an  Occasional  Paper  with  audited 
accounts,  send  out  suitable  workers  as  funds  permitted, 
and  keep  clear  of  debt.  This  last  was  a  cardinal  principle 
with  all  concerned. 

"  It  is  really  just  as  easy,"  Mr.  Taylor  pointed  out,  "  for  God 
to  give  beforehand  ;  and  He  much  prefers  to  do  so.  He  is  too 
wise  to  allow  His  purposes  to  be  frustrated  for  lack  of  a  little 
money ;  but  money  wrongly  placed  or  obtained  in  unspiritual 
ways  is  sure  to  hinder  blessing. 

"  And  what  does  going  into  debt  really  mean  ?  It  means 
that  God  has  not  suppUed  your  need.  You  trusted  Him,  but 
He  has  not  given  you  the  money  ;   so  you  supply  yourself,  and 


ACCORDING  TO  HIS  WORKING  55 

borrow.     If  we  can  only  wait  right  up  to  the  time,  God  cannot  lie, 
God  cannot  forget :  He  is  pledged  to  supply  aU  our  need." 


But  upon  the  many  conferences  on  these  and  kindred 
subjects  at  Saint  Hill  we  must  not  linger.  Time  was  getting 
short.  It  was  hoped  that  Mr.  Taylor  and  his  party  would 
sail  in  May,  and  much  had  to  be  got  through  in  the  way  of 
preparation.  In  answer  to  all  inquiries  as  to  how  many 
would  be  going  with  him,  the  leader  of  the  Mission  could 
only  reply  : 

If  the  Lord  sends  money  for  three  or  four,  three  or  four  will 
go  ;  but  if  He  provides  for  sixteen,  we  shaU  take  it  as  His  indica- 
tion that  sixteen  are  to  sail  at  this  time. 

Not  that  this  meant  uncertainty  in  his  own  mind.  He 
had  little  doubt  that  the  larger  number  would  be  pro- 
vided for,  and  though  no  solicitation  was  made  for  money, 
the  matter  was  not  left  to  drift.  He  believed  that  to  deal 
with  God  is  at  least  as  real  as  to  deal  with  man  ;  that  when 
we  get  to  prayer  we  get  to  work,  and  work  of  the  most 
practical  kind.  Two  thousand  pounds,  as  nearly  as  he  could 
tell,  would  be  needed  if  the  whole  party  were  to  be  sent  out ; 
and  in  preparing  the  first  Occasional  Paper  of  the  Mission, 
early  in  the  new  year  (1866),  Mr.  Taylor  mentioned  this  sum. 
The  MS.  w^ent  to  press  on  the  6th  of  February,  and  that  very 
day  a  noon  prayer  meeting  was  begun  at  Coborn  Street  for 
funds.  Faith  did  not  mean  inaction.  From  twelve  to  one 
the  households  gathered  for  daily  united  waiting  upon  God, 
the  would-be  missionaries  realising  that  their  first  work  was 
to  obtain — from  Him  Who  was  so  ready  to  give — whatever 
would  be  necessary  for  as  many  of  their  number  as  He  was 
sending  forth. 

Mr.  Taylor  was  not  able  to  be  present,  himself,  on  many 
of  these  occasions.  Invitations  for  meetings  were  so  pressing 
that,  the  Bible  Society  having  released  him  from  his  long 
task,*  he  was  giving  as  much  time  as  possible  to  deputation 

1  In  January  1866  Mr.  Taylor  relinquished  into  the  hands  of  his 
colleague,  the  Rev.  F,  F.  Gough,  the  work  that  had  occupied  so  large  a 
part  of  his  time  for  four  and  a  half  years.  Finally  completed  by  the  Rev. 
George  Moule  (afterwards  Bishop  in  mid-China),  the  book  became,  as  a 
C.M.S.  authority  stated,  "  of  the  greatest  value  to  Christians  throughout 
the  province  "  (Che-kiang). 


56  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

work.  Day  by  day  he  was  with  the  Httle  group  at  Coborn 
Street,  however,  in  spirit,  and  they  rejoiced  to  hear  how 
their  prayers  for  him  were  being  answered. 

For  in  the  midst  of  many  responsibihties  he  was  kept 
wonderfully  free  from  anxiety,  and  ready  to  take  advantage 
of  every  opportunity  for  deepening  interest  in  China.  With 
little  experience  in  such  matters,  he  was  scarcely  conscious, 
perhaps,  of  the  way  in  which  he  was  gaining  the  confidence 
of  spiritually  minded  people  wherever  he  went.  He  only 
knew  that  in  answer  to  prayer  many  were  moved  to  help ; 
that  one  opening  led  to  another,  and  that  the  Lord  seemed 
to  have  prepared  hearts  in  all  the  Churches,  upon  which 
He  was  laying  the  burden  of  China's  perishing  millions. 

Meeting  in  Liverpool,  for  example,  the  young  evangelist 
H.  Grattan  Guinness,  Mr.  Taylor  accepted  his  invitation  to 
Dublin  to  address  the  members  of  a  theological  class  Mr. 
Guinness  was  teaching  in  his  ow^n  house.  Going  ahead  to 
make  preparations,  the  latter  had  much  to  tell  about  the 
new  Mission,  and  especially  its  leader,  who,  in  faith,  was 
attempting  no  less  a  task  than  the  evangelisation  of  inland 
China.  Needless  to  say,  the  young  men  assembled  at  the 
hour  of  Mr.  Taylor's  arrival  were  on  the  tip-toe  of  expecta- 
tion. John  McCarthy  was  there,  and  Charles  Fishe  and  his 
brother,  little  thinking  they  were  that  night  to  hear  the  call 
of  God  to  their  life-work.  Tom  Barnardo  was  there  also, 
a  bright  lad  of  twenty  whose  interest  in  China,  dating  from 
that  evening,  was  to  bring  him  to  his  own  among  the  waifs 
and  strays  of  East  London.^  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Guinness,  too, 
were  unconsciously  waiting  the  touch  that  was  to  lead  first 
themselves,  then  all  their  children,  into  the  work  of  foreign 
missions  and  thus  to  result  in  the  training  of  more  than  a 
thousand  evangelists  for  the  dark  places  of  the  earth. 2    It 

1  T,  J.  Barnardo,  coming  to  Coborn  Street  as  a  candidate  for  the  China 
Inland  Mission,  was  advised  by  Mr.  Taylor  to  study  medicine,  and  intro- 
duced accordingly  to  the  London  Hospital.  His  sayings  and  doings  were 
a  source  of  constant  amusement  to  the  missionary  household.  In  his 
Bible  he  had  written  "  Tom  Barnardo,  China  "  ;  and  long  after  the  work 
for  waifs  and  strays  began  which  has  attained  such  wonderful  proportions, 
he  fully  intended  leaving  it  to  others  and  going  out  himself  to  the  land  of 
his  prayers  and  longings. 

2  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Grattan  Guinness  were  also  attracted  to  East  London 
by  their  interest  in  the  new  Mission.     "  Strangely  enough,"  as  he  wrote  of 


ACCORDING  TO  HIS  WORKING  57 

was  a  company  worth  coming  over  to  meet,  hidden  though 
these  developments  were  in  the  unknown  future. 

But  what  a  shock  of  surprise,  not  to  say  disappointment, 
the  members  of  the  class  experienced  when  the  door  opened 
and  their  visitor  appeared  I  Or,  had  he  not  come  after  all  ? 
What — that  young,  slender,  fair-haired  man,  so  small  in 
contrast  with  their  teacher's  familiar  figure  1  Surely  there 
must  be  some  mistake  ?  But  no,  Mr.  Guinness  was  un- 
doubtedly introducing  Hudson  Taylor  :  and  taking  it  all  in 
in  a  flash,  Barnardo— who  was  less  in  stature,  even,  than  the 
stranger — whispered  to  McCarthy,  "  Good,  there's  a  chance 
for  me  I  "  and  was  all  attention. 

Oh,  the  riveted  interest,  the  burning  hearts  of  that  hour, 
as  the  young  men  listened  to  all  Mr.  Taylor  had  to  tell ! 

"  I  think  I  see  him  now,"  wrote  John  McCarthy  after  nearly 

forty  years  in  China,  "  so  quiet,  so  unassuming  in  manner  and 

-  address,  but  so  full  of  the  pov/er  of  God  I     I  found  that  night 

jiQt  only  the  answer  to  many  prayers  as  to  my  sphere  of  service, 

4iut  the  God-given  leader  in  the  work  to  which  the  Lord  had 

Galled  me.     The  Httle  talk  in  his  room  after  the  meeting,  and 

the  simple  prayer  to  God  for  guidance,  are  among  the  most 

treasured  memories  of  my  Ufe.     The  bond  then  formed  between 

us  has  only  grown  and  strengthened  :    it  has  never  known  a 

strain.    And  the  blessing  his  love  and  prayers  have  been  to  me, 

eternity  alone  can  reveal." 

Ten  or  more  promising  candidates  for  the  Mission 
resulted  from  that  Irish  visit,  and  permanent  friendships 

this  experience,  "  Harley  House — for  more  than  thirty  years  our  Missionary 
Training  Institute — is  but  a  few  steps  from  Coborn  Street,  where  Mr.  Taylor 
received  his  first  volunteers  for  the  China  Inland  Mission.  How  little, 
when  I  visited  the  small,  crowded  home  of  the  out-going  '  Lammermuir 
party,'  did  I  imagine  that  close  to  that  spot  we  were  to  build  a  college 
which  should  train  more  than  a  thousand  evangelists  for  the  foreign  field. 
.  .  .  About  a  hundred  of  our  students  have  become  missionaries  in  China, 
some  of  them  being  numbered  among  the  martyrs  of  the  Boxer  Outbreak. 
The  acquaintance  between  Dr.  Howard  Taylor  and  our  beloved  daughter 
Geraldine,  which  subsequently  led  to  their  marriage,  arose  from  Dr.  Taylor's 
residence  in  East  London  while  studying  for  several  years  at  the  London 
Hospital.  All  these  things  were  linked  together  and  connected  with 
Hudson  Taylor's  choice  of  that  humble  home  in  Coborn  Street,  amid  the 
poverty  and  obscurity  of  East  London,  for  the  reception  of  the  '  Lammer- 
muir party.'  It  would  be  impossible  to  estimate  the  results  for  good  in 
East  London  and  throughout  the  world  which  have  followed  the  selection 
of  that  lowly  dwelling  in  the  mighty  city." 


58  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

were  made  with  Henry  Bewley,  William  Fry,  and  other 
leaders  in  Christian  work.  In  Belfast  Mr.  Taylor  had 
remarkable  openings  among  the  Presbyterians.  He  had 
recently  given  several  days  in  Liverpool  and  Manchester  to 
meetings  of  the  English  Presbyterian  Synod,  speaking  by 
request  on  his  association  in  China  with  their  beloved 
missionary,  the  Rev.  William  Burns.  To  stimulate  ministers 
and  people  to  more  generous  support  of  their  own  Swatow 
mission  was  his  object,  and  he  rejoiced  in  the  successful 
issue  no  less  than  when  gifts  and  prayers  were  called  forth 
for  the  Inland  Mission. 

"  I  feel  little  doubt,"  he  wrote  to  Mrs.  Taylor  from  Belfast, 
"  that  this  effort  to  stir  up  the  Presbyterians  here  will  result  in 
their  sending  several  additional  missionaries  to  China.  If  the 
English  Presbyterian  Mission  will  only  follow  up  the  interest 
awakened  in  Liverpool,  etc.,  they  will  easily  obtain  funds  for  the 
support  of  three  or  four  men." 

Long  long  after,  impressions  made  by  this  work  were 
still  fresh  in  the  minds  of  many  with  whom  Mr.  Taylor  then 
came  in  contact.  A  man  burdened,  deeply  burdened,  a 
man  God-conscious  had  moved  from  place  to  place,  every- 
where awakening  longing  for  the  same  God-consciousness. 
It  made  no  difference  whether  meetings  were  large  or  small, 
influential  or  apparently  otherwise  ;  he  gave  the  best  he 
had  to  give,  and  so  earnestly  that  other  hearts  could  not  but 
come  to  share  the  burden.  At  Birmingham,  for  example, 
the  night  was  so  stormy  that  it  seemed  as  if  there  could  be 
no  meeting  at  all.  Mr.  Taylor  was  tired,  and  the  fireside 
at  Spark  Hill  looked  specially  attractive  as  the  rain  poured 
in  torrents.  No  one  could  get  to  the  Severn  Street  School- 
room, his  kind  hostess  assured  him,  and  it  would  be  taken 
for  granted  that  the  meeting  would  not  be  held. 

"  But  was  it  not  announced  for  to-night  ?  "  asked  Mr. 
Taylor  quietly.  "  Then  I  must  go,  even  if  there  is  no  one 
but  the  doorkeeper." 

And  there,  in  that  almost  empty  schoolroom,  the  presence 
of  the  Lord  was  so  real  that  both  speaker  and  hearers  felt 
it  to  be  one  of  the  best  meetings  they  ever  attended.  Half 
the  little  audience  of  eight  or  ten,  as  Mr.  Taylor  often  men- 


ACC^ORDING  TO  HIS  WORKING  59 

tioned,  either  became  missionaries  themselves  or  gave  one 
or  more  of  their  children  to  the  foreign  field,  while  the 
remaining  half  were  from  that  day  earnest  and  prayerful 
supporters  of  the  C.I.M. 

On  his  return  to  London,  Mr.  Taylor  took  the  opportunity 
of  going  over  the  Mission  cash-book  to  see  how  far  the  daily 
prayer  for  funds  had  been  answered.  In  the  first  five  weeks 
of  the  year,  up  to  the  6th  of  February,  when  the  noon  meeting 
was  begun,  a  hundred  and  seventy  pounds  had  been  received. 
Another  five  weeks  had  now  elapsed,  and  eagerly  he  made 
the  reckoning  necessary  to  compare  the  periods.  Only  the 
day  before  he  had  received  from  Liverpool,  as  a  result  of  his 
recent  visit,  a  gift  of  no  less  than  six  hundred  and  fifty  pounds, 
from  a  gentleman  who  upon  reading  Mr.  Taylor's  pamphlet 
was  impressed  with  the  importance  of  making  sacrifices 
that  the  Gospel  might  be  preached  to  the  Christless  millions 
of  inland  China.  Deeply  interested,  Mr.  Taylor  was  anxious 
to  see  how  far  other  hearts  had  been  moved  in  the  same 
direction,  and  what  was  the  surprise  and  thankfulness  with 
which  he  discovered  that  all  they  were  praying  for — not  the 
smaller  but  the  larger  sum — was  actually  in  hand  !  Mr. 
Richard  Houghton's  generous  gift  had  made  up  the  con- 
tributions of  that  second  period  of  five  weeks  to  almost  two 
thousand  pounds  ;  so  that  not  only  was  prayer  answered, 
it  was  manifest  also  that  all  the  praying  band  were  to  go 
forward  without  delay  to  China. 

The  question  then  was  what  to  do  with  the  Occasional 
Paper,  which  had  not  yet  been  sent  out.  Delayed  by  a  lire 
at  the  printing  ofhce,  it  had  only  been  received  that  very 
day  (March  12),  and  already  the  need  of  fifteen  hundred  to 
two  thousand  pounds  of  which  it  made  mention  had  been 
supplied.  Some  explanation  must  be  made  to  this  effect ; 
and  so  it  came  about  that  the  first  issue  of  the  magazine 
which  was  to  represent  the  Mission  had  to  have  an  inset 
slipped  into  each  number  saying  that  the  whole  sum  needed 
for  passages  and  outfits  was  already  in  hand — "  the  response 
of  a  prayer-hearing  God  through  His  believing  people." 

"  We  were  reminded  of  the  difficulty  of  Moses,"  wrote  Mr. 
Taylor  some  years  later,  "  and  of  the  proclamation  he  had  to 


6o  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

send  throughout  the  Camp  to  prepare  no  more  for  the  building 
/  of  the  Tabernacle,  as  the  gifts  in  hand  were  more  than  suf&cient. 
We  are  convinced  that  if  there  were  less  soUcitation  for  money 
and  more  dependence  upon  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and 
the  deepening  of  spiritual  Hfe,  the  experience  would  be  a  common 
\  one  in  every  branch  of  Christian  work/' 

One  more  campaign  of  meetings  was  fitted  in  after  this, 
in  response  to  urgent  invitations  from  the  western  counties. 
Mr.  Taylor  was  specially  glad  to  be  going  in  that  direction, 
as  it  gave  the  opportunity  of  paying  a  farewell  visit  to 
Bristol.  In  spite  of  many  responsible  and  pressing  occupa- 
tions in  caring  for  a  family  of  over  eleven  hundred  orphans,^ 
Mr.  Miiller  followed  with  keen  interest  the  development  of 
the  China  Inland  Mission.  He  gave  time  whenever  Mr. 
Taylor  visited  him  to  careful  consideration  of  matters 
connected  with  the  work,  his  judgement  being  no  less  valued 
than  his  helpful  spirit.  Only  a  few  months  previously  Mr. 
Taylor  had  taken  an  outgoing  party  to  Ashley  Down,  that 
they  might  have  the  privilege  of  meeting  this  man  of  God. 

"  Had  an  hour  with  Mr.  Miiller,"  he  wrote  on  August  22. 
"  He  spoke  most  preciously  on  the  call  and  spirit  of  the  mis- 
sionary ;  on  the  consecutive  reading  of  the  Scriptures  ;  on  prayer 
and  faith  in  God ;   on  obstacles  and  thorn  hedges." 

And  again  next  day  : 

Mr.  Miiller  spoke  on  communion  with  God  being  before  work 

for  God  ;    on  the  need  of  4iot  acting  uncertainly  ;    on  mixing 

:  freely  with  the  people,  and  restraining  the  speaking  of  EngHsh 

among  ourselves   (in  the  presence  of  Chinese  who  could  not 

understand)  ;    and  finally  promised  to  pray  for  the  party. 

How  much  his  prayers  meant  the  outgoing  missionaries 
could  not  but  realise  when  they  went  over  the  Orphan 
Houses  and  saw  those  hundreds  of  children,  sheltered  and 
provided  for  without  a  penny  of  endowment,  without  an 
appeal  of  any  kind  for  help,  or  even  making  their  wants 
known.  From  the  very  commencement  of  his  Christian 
life  Mr.  Taylor  had  been  profoundly  influenced  by  this  quiet 

1  Shortly  thereafter  increased  to  two  thousand,  and  later  on  to  double 
that  number. 


ACCORDING  TO  HIS  WORKING  6i 

consistent  testimony  to  the  faithfulness  of  God ;  and  now 
that  he  was  himself  being  led  out  along  similar  lines,  he 
valued  more  than  ever  Mr.  Miiller's  prayerful  sympathy. 

In  Malvern,  Bath,  and  other  places  no  little  interest  was 
aroused  by  the  story  Mr.  Taylor  had  to  tell  and  the  spirit 
in  which  he  came.  Rising  early  to  travel,  and  speaking 
once,  twice,  and  three  times  a  day,  he  found  his  strength 
taxed  to  the  utmost ;  but  in  spite  of  a  large  correspondence 
which  kept  him  busy  even  in  the  train,  he  managed  to  write 
a  pencilled  Hne  to  his  mother  as  he  was  nearing  Exeter 
(April  i8,  1866)  : 

It  is  joy  to  work  for  such  a  Master  I  My  soul  is  often  filled 
to  overflowing,  and  it  is  an  honour  to  be  spent  in  such  a  cause. 
If  the  labour  is  great,  and  the  difficulties  numerous  and  formid- 
able, the  strength — "  all  might,  according  to  His  glorious  power  " 
— is  greater,  and  the  reward  will  be  so  too.  No  service  can  be 
happier  even  now,  but  the  reward  is  not  yet,  and  it  is  eternal. 

To  the  young  people  with  whom  he  came  in  contact  this 
joy  in  the  Lord  was  no  less  attractive  than  to  their  elders. 
The  missionary  was  young  himself,  and  his  burning  words 
had  the  more  power. 

"  They  gave  several  of  us  a  sleepless  night,"  recalled  Miss 
H.  E.  Soltau,  whom  Mr.  Taylor  met  on  this  visit  for  the  first  time, 
"  and  linked  myself  and  dear  Agnes  (then  about  to  be  married 
to  Mr.  Richard  Hill)  with  the  Mission  from  that  hour."  * 

When  one  remembers  how  much  that  one  life  has  meant 
to  China,  and  the  love  and  veneration  with  which  the  writer 

1  No  fewer  than  six  members  of  this  family  (of  which  the  father,  Mr. 
Henry  W.  Soltau,  was  then  at  the  height  of  his  great  usefulness  by  voice 
and  pen  as  a  Bible  teacher)  have  for  longer  or  shorter  periods  been  con- 
nected with  the  C.I.M. — as  well  as  the  son-in-law  mentioned  above  and  a 
grand-daughter,  Miss  Mabel  Soltau,  now  in  China.  Messrs.  George  and 
Henry  Soltau  were  members  of  the  first  Council,  formed  in  1872,  and  the 
latter  went  with  Mr.  J.  W.  Stevenson  to  Burma  to  attempt  the  opening 
up  of  Western  China.  Mr.  William  Soltau,  prior  to  his  devoted  work  in 
France,  gave  much  assistance  in  the  home  department.  Mr.  Richard  Hill, 
who  had  been  largely  instrumental  in  forming  the  Council,  became  its 
Hon.  Secretary,  and  rendered  valued  service  in  this  and  other  capacities 
for  nearly  forty  years.  Mrs.  William  Warren  (Miss  Charlotte  Soltau),  in 
her  Training  Home  for  missionaries  in  Melbourne,  prepared  not  a  few  of 
its  first  Australian  workers  ;  and  Miss  H.  E.  Soltau  (assisted  latterly  by 
Miss  Elsie  Soltau  and  Miss  Edith  Smith)  was  for  many  years  entirely 
responsible  for  the  Women's  Department  in  London,  sending  out  hundreds 
of  workers  and  following  them  with  helpful  ministrations. 


62  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

of  those  lines  is  regarded  by  the  women  of  the  Inland  Mission, 
one  cannot  but  realise  that  Mr.  Taylor's  brief  visit  to  Exeter, 
difficult  though  it  had  been  to  fit  in,  resulted  in  one  of  the 
best  gifts  God  ever  gave  to  the  work  of  foreign  missions. 

Back  again  in  London,  for  we  must  not  dwell  upon  his 
intercourse  with  the  saintly  Robert  Chapman  and  others,* 
Mr.  Taylor  found  himself  plunged  in  a  very  vortex  of  business 
and  farewell  meetings.  It  was  the  end  of  April,  and  in  May 
the  party  was  to  sail  for  China.  Apart  from  Mrs.  Taylor, 
who  was  slowly  convalescing  from  her  recent  illness,  there 
was  no  one  who  had  any  experience  of  the  conditions  to 
which  they  were  going.  Everything  had  to  pass  through 
Mr.  Taylor's  hands  ;  yet,  as  the  candidates  from  Dublin 
noticed,  he  was  ready  with  helpful  sympathy  to  meet  the 
endless  requests  with  which  he  was  greeted  and  followed. 

"  Whatever  needed  doing,  he  seemed  to  know  just  how  to 
do  it,"  wrote  Mr.  McCarthy.  "  Questions  as  to  printing  (litho- 
graphic or  common),  engraving,  purchase  of  materials  for  outfits 
or  supplies,  and  the  thousand-and-one  things  that  come  up  in 
connection  with  a  large  party  setting  out  for  a  foreign  land,  all 
were  found  to  have  light  thrown  upon  them  by  a  reference  to 
the  leader  who  was  supposed  to  know  everything,  and  who 
really  did  seem  to  have  learned  something  about  any  and  every 
matter  however  remotely  connected  with  the  work." 

But  all  this  time,  strange  to  say,  they  had  no  ship  in 
view  to  take  them  to  China.  Avoiding  the  expensive 
"  overland  "  route,  via  Suez,  Mr.  Taylor  wished  to  travel 
round  the  Cape,  and  was  seeking  a  sailing-vessel  of  which 

1  Saturday  was  the  day  Mr.  Robert  Chapman  set  apart  for  special 
waiting  upon  God,  though  it  was  his  habit  to  rise  always  at  or  before  day- 
light and  give  hours  to  fervent  intercession — and  this  until  he  was  well 
over  ninety  years  of  age.  His  "  workshop  "  claimed  him,  however,  in 
a  special  way  at  the  close  of  every  week.  It  was  his  sanctum,  containing 
little  but  his  turning-lathe  and  a  shelf  on  which  he  could  lay  his  open 
Bible.  Here  he  spent  hours  at  a  time,  denying  himself  on  Saturdays  to 
any  and  every  visitor,  and  going  without  his  midday  meal  that  he  might 
be  the  more  free  in  spirit.  The  mechanical  occupation  of  the  lathe  he 
found  helpful  to  a  connected  Une  of  thought ;  so  looking  at  the  Bible 
from  time  to  time,  or  dropping  on  his  knees  in  prayer,  he  would  turn  out 
plates  and  trenchers,  his  mind  occupied  the  while  with  the  eternal  interests 
of  the  Kingdom  of  God.  "  Dear  Brother,"  he  exclaimed  on  meeting 
Mr.  Taylor  again  six  or  seven  years  later,  "  /  have  visited  you  every  day 
%ince  you  went  to  China."  Who  can  tell  how  much  the  Inland  Mission  owes 
to  the  prayers  that  went  up  from  that  hidden  corner  in  Barnstaple  ? 


ACCORDING  TO  HIS  WORKING  63 

they  might  engage  the  entire  accommodation.  As  the 
party  was  to  consist  of  eighteen  adults  and  four  children, 
the  cabin  space  of  an  ordinary  three-master  would  be  none 
too  much,  and  there  were  decided  advantages  for  so  long  a 
voyage  in  being  the  only  passengers.  But  here  was  already 
the  beginning  of  May  and  a  suitable  ship  had  not  been 
found.  Daily  the  matter  was  remembered  in  the  noon 
prayer  meeting  at  Coborn  Street,  the  out-going  missionaries 
not  only  asking  for  a  Christian  captain,  but  for  a  crew 
every  one  of  whom  might  find  blessing  through  the  voyage. 
Mr.  Taylor  was  not  anxious  ;  he  was  sure  the  Lord  would 
meet  the  need  in  good  time,  though  he  would  have  been  glad 
to  have  it  settled. 

Just  then,  on  the  2nd  of  May,  he  was  due  in  Hertfordshire 
for  an  important  meeting.  Colonel  Puget,  brother  of  the 
Dowager  Lady  Radstock,  being  his  host  and  Chairman.  To 
this  new  friend  it  seemed  a  peculiar  arrangement  to  have  a 
missionary  meeting  without  a  collection,  but  understanding 
it  to  be  Mr.  Taylor's  wish  the  announcement  had  been  made 
accordingly.  When  the  time  came,  however,  and  the  speaker 
proved  unusually  interesting.  Colonel  Puget  realised  that 
people  would  give  generously  if  only  they  had  the  opportunity. 

Rising  therefore  at  the  close  of  the  address,  he  said  that 
interpreting  the  feelings  of  the  audience  by  his  own,  he  took 
it  upon  himself  to  alter  the  decision  about  the  collection. 
Many  present  were  moved  by  the  condition  of  things  Mr. 
Taylor  had  represented,  and  would  go  away  burdened  unless 
they  could  express  practical  sympathy.  Contrary  therefore 
to  previous  announcements,  an  opportunity  would  now  be 

given But  at  that  point  Mr.  Taylor  interposed,  asking 

to  be  allowed  to  add  a  few  words. 

It  was  his  earnest  desire,  he  said,  that  his  hearers  should 
go  away  burdened.  Money  was  not  the  chief  thing  in  the 
Lord's  work,  especially  money  easily  given,  under  the  influ- 
ence of  emotion.  Much  as  he  appreciated  their  kind  inten- 
tion, he  would  far  rather  have  each  one  go  home  to  ask  the 
Lord  very  definitely  what  He  would  have  them  do.  If  it 
were  to  give  of  their  substance,  they  could  send  a  contribu- 
tion to  their  own  or  any  other  society.     But  in  view  of  the 


64  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

I  appalling  facts  of  heathenism,  it  might  be  much  more  costly 

/  gifts  the  Lord  was  seeking  ;    perhaps  a  son  or  daughter  or 

'   one's  own  life-service.     No  amount  of  money  could  save  a 

single  soul.     What  was  wanted  was  that  men  and  women 

i  filled  with  the  Holy  Spirit  should  give  themselves  to  the  work 

in  China  and  to  the  work  of  prayer  at  home.     For  the 

support    of   God-sent  missionaries  funds  would  never  be 

lacking. 

"  You  made  a  great  mistake,  if  I  may  say  so,"  remarked 
his  host  at  supper.  "  The  people  were  really  interested. 
We  might  have  had  a  good  collection.*' 
f  In  vain  Mr.  Taylor  explained  the  financial  basis  of  the 
/  Mission  and  his  desire  to  avoid  even  the  appearance  of 
conflicting  with  other  societies.  Colonel  Puget,  though 
sympathetic,  was  unconvinced. 

Next  morning,  however,  he  appeared  somewhat  late  at 
breakfast,  explaining  that  he  had  not  had  a  good  night.  In 
the  study,  after  handing  Mr.  Taylor  several  contributions 
given  for  the  Mission,  he  went  on  to  say  : 

"  I  felt  last  evening  that  you  were  wrong  about  the 
collection,  but  now  I  see  things  differently.  Ljdng  awake 
in  the  night,  as  I  thought  of  that  stream  of  souls  in  China, 
a  thousand  every  hour  going  out  into  the  dark,  I  could  only 
cry,  *  Lord,  what  wilt  Thou  have  w^  to  do  ?  '  I  think  I 
have  His  answer." 

And  he  handed  Mr.  Taylor  a  cheque  for  five  hundred 
pounds. 
/        "If  there  had  been  a  collection  I  should  have  given  a 
five-pound  note,"  he  added.     "  This  cheque  is  the  result 
of  no  small  part  of  the  night  spent  in  prayer." 

It  was  Thursday  morning  the  3rd  of  May,  and  at  the 
breakfast-table,  a  letter  had  reached  Mr.  Taylor  from  his 
shipping  agents  offering  the  entire  accommodation  of  the 
Lammermuir,  about  to  sail  for  China.  Bidding  farewell  to 
his  now  deeply  interested  host,  he  returned  to  London,  went 
straight  to  the  docks,  and  finding  the  ship  in  every  way 
suitable,  paid  over  the  cheque  just  received  on  account. 
This  done,  with  what  joy  he  hastened  to  Coborn  Street  with 
the  tidings  I 


ACCORDING  TO  HIS  WORKING  65 

So  the  time  came  at  length  for  the  quiet,  unostentatious 
start.  To  see  God  working — to  look  up  to  Him  moment  by 
moment,  conscious  of  "  His  arm  "  to  enfold,  "  His  right 
hand  "  to  protect  and  guide,  and  "  the  light  of  His  counte- 
nance " — was  more  to  that  little  band  than  thousands  of 
gold  and  silver. 

"  Utter  weakness  in  ourselves,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  before 
setting  out,  "  we  should  be  overwhelmed  at  the  immensity  of 
the  work  before  us,  were  it  not  that  our  very  insufficiency  gives 
us  a  specia.1  claim  to  the  fulfilment  of  His  promise,  '  My  grace  is 
suf&cient  for  thee  ;   My  strength  is  made  perfect  in  weakness  '  " 


PART  II 
LAUNCHING   OUT   INTO  THE  DEEP 

1 866-1 868.    Aet.  34-36. 

Chap.  6.  My  Presence  shall  go  with  thee. 

7.  To  search  out  a  Resting-place. 

8.  O  that  Thou  wouldest  bless  me  indeed, 
„      Q.  And  enlarge  my  Coast, 


Nothing  before,  nothing  behind : 

The  steps  of  faith 
Fall  on  the  seeming  void,  and  find 

The  rock  beneath. 

Whittiee 


CHAPTER  VI 

MY    PRESENCE   SHALL   GO   WITH   THEE 
1866.      Aet.  34. 

Human  nothingness,  divine  sufficiency — ^the  one  just  as  real 
as  the  other — was  the  atmosphere  of  those  last  days  at 
Coborn  Street.  None  could  come  and  go  without  feeling 
it.  Among  packing-cases  and  bundles  the  Saturday  prayer- 
meetings  were  held,  friends  from  far  and  near  crowding  the 
room,  sitting  up  the  staircase  and  on  anything  that  came  to 
hand.  Upon  the  wall  still  hung  the  great  map  ;  on  the  table 
lay  the  open  Bible  ;   and  all  else  was  lost  sight  of. 

"  Our  great  desire  and  aim,"  Mr.  Taylor  had  written  in  his 
pamphlet,  "  are  to  plant  the  standard  of  the  Cross  in  the  eleven 
provinces  of  China  hitherto  unoccupied,  and  in  Chinese  Tartary."  ^ 

"  A  foolhardy  business  !  "  said  those  who  saw  only  the 
difficulties. 

"  A  superhuman  task  !  "  sighed  others  who  wished  them 
well.  And  many  even  of  their  friends  could  not  but  be 
anxious. 

"  You  will  be  forgotten,"  was  the  chief  concern  of  some. 
"  With  no  Committee  to  represent  you  at  home  you  will  be 
lost  sight  of  in  that  distant  land.  Claims  are  many  nowa- 
days. Before  long  you  may  find  yourselves  without  even 
the  necessaries  of  life  !  " 

1  "  Your  plan  of  seeking  to  plant  two  missionaries  in  each  of  the  un- 
occupied provinces  is  a  noble  one,"  wrote  the  Rev.  William  Burns  from 
Pe Icing  in  January  of  this  year  {1866),  "  and  if,  by  the  help  of  God,  it  is 
but  half  accomplished,  a  great  step  will  have  been  taken  in  advance,  and 
the  necessities  of  China  will  become  more  visible  and  clamant  in  the  view  of 
all  the  Protestant  Churches." 

69 


70  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

**  I  am  taking  my  children  with  me,"  was  Mr.  Taylor's 
reply,  "  and  I  notice  that  it  is  not  difficult  for  me  to  remember 
that  the  Uttle  ones  need  breakfast  in  the  morning,  dinner  at 
mid-day,  and  something  before  they  go  to  bed  at  night. 
Indeed,  I  could  not  forget  it.  And  I  find  it  impossible  to 
suppose  that  our  Heavenly  Father  is  less  tender  or  mindful 
than  I." 

Little  wonder  that  the  quietness  and  simplicity  of  it  all, 
combined  with  such  aims,  such  faith,  drew  out  the  sympathy 
of  many  hearts  1  ^ 


Over  the  dark  blue  sea,  over  the  trackless  flood, 
A  little  band  is  gone  in  the  service  of  their  God  : 

The  lonely  waste  of  waters  they  traverse  to  proclaim, 
In  the  distant  land  of  Sinim,  Immanuel's  Saving  Name. 

They  have  heard  from  the  far-ofi  East  the  voice  of  their  brother's 
blood  : 
A  milhon  a  month  in  China  are  dying  without  God.  .  .  . 

No  help  have  they  but  God  :  alone  to  their  Father's  hand 
They  look  for  the  supply  of  their  wants  in  a  distant  land. 

The  fulness  of  the  world  is  His — *  All  power  '  in  earth  and  heaven  ; 
They  are  strong  tho'  weak,  and  rich  tho'  poor,  in  the  promise  He 
has  given. 

*Tis  enough  1   they  hear  the  cry,  the  voice  of  their  brother's  blood  : 
A  miUion  a  month  in  China  are  djring  without  God.^ 


Never  surely  were  travellers  more  prayed  for,  as  the  long 
months  of  the  voyage  wore  on,  and  none  could  have  more 
needed  such  aid.  Sailing  from  London  on  the  26th  of  May,  it 
was  the  end  of  September  before  they  reached  Shanghai ;  and 
very  determined  were  the  onslaughts  of  the  enemy,  first  to 
wreck  the  unity  and  spiritual  power  of  the  missionary  party, 
and  then  to  wreck  the  ship  on  which  they  travelled,  sending 

1  The  Rev.  Alexander  M'Aulay,  then  a  minister  in  East  London,  saw  a 
good  deal  of  Mr.  Taylor  and  his  fellow- workers  at  this  time.  "  I  watched 
very  closely  the  manner  and  spirit  of  those  about  to  proceed  to  China,"  he 
said  as  President  of  the  Wesleyan  Conference  ten  years  later.  "  I  was 
delighted  to  find  the  spirit  of  self-sacrifice  very  deep  in  every  one  of  them, 
so  far  as  I  could  discern.  They  were  given  to  prayer,  and  had  all  the 
elements  about  them  that  were  likely  to  make  them  successful  missionaries 
in  any  field  to  which  God  might  call  them." 

'  From  The  Voice  of  thy  Brother's  Blood,  by  H.  Grattan  Guinness. 


MY  PRESENCE  SHALL  GO  WITH  THEE   ^i 

them  all  to  the  bottom.  But  from  the  hour  of  parting,  when 
they  were  commended  to  God  in  the  stern-cabin  of  the 
Lammermuir  by  Mr.  Berger  and  a  company  of  those  nearest 
to  them,  they  were  daily  sustained  in  this  most  important 
way.^ 

And  prayer  was  wonderfully  answered  on  board  that 
little  sailing-ship  tossed  on  the  mighty  deep.  Most  of 
Trinity  Sunday,  their  first  whole  day  at  sea,  they  were 
anchored  awaiting  a  favourable  breeze.  Freedom  from  much 
motion  gave  opportunity  for  morning  and  evening  services 
and  for  rest  which  was  greatly  needed.  Next  day  was 
occupied  with  putting  things  in  order  and  steadjdng  the 
heavy  baggage,  piled  up  in  the  corners  of  the  saloon  upon 
which  the  cabins  opened. ^  On  Tuesday  regular  studies  were 
begun,  Mr.  Taylor  taking  a  class  in  Chinese  every  morning 
and  Mrs.  Taylor  another  in  the  afternoon. 

' '  I  should  like  you  to  have  a  peep  at  us  when  we  are  gathered 
together,"  she  wrote  to  Mrs.  Berger,  "just  to  see  how  happy  we 
all  are  !  God  ever  keeps  us  so.  .  .  .  The  Captain  and  crew 
number  thirty-four,  which  with  our  own  party  makes  fifty-six 
souls  on  board." 

After  that  came  rougher  weather,  when  many  were  down 
with  sea-sickness  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor,  in  the  absence  of 
of  a  stewardess,  had  their  hands  full.  By  the  time  Madeira 
was  reached  almost  all  "  had  their  sea-legs,"  and  great 
advance  had  been  made  in  getting  into  touch  with  the  crew. 
From  that  time  on,  all  across  the  Atlantic  (for  their  course 
took  them  westward  almost  to  Brazil)  round  the  Cape  of 
Good  Hope  and  up  to  the  East  Indian  Islands,  the  weather 
was  wonderfully  fine — few  gales  and  no  distressing  heat. 

1  The  Saturday  prayer-meeting  was  continued  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Gough 
(the  widow  of  Mr.  J.  Jones  of  Ningpo)  in  their  home  on  Bow  Road,  near 
Coborn  Street.  Another  weekly  prayer-meeting  was  held  by  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Berger  at  Saint  Hill,  who  also  kept  up  the  noon  half-hour  daily,  no  matter 
what  guests  or  occupations  they  might  have.  There  were  praying  circles 
also  in  Scotland,  Ireland,  and  the  provinces,  in  which  the  needs  of  the 
mission  found  constant  remembrance. 

2  This  they  had  all  to  themselves,  with  its  three  port-holes  at  the  stem, 
and  sky-light  over  the  table  from  the  poop  deck.  Immediately  outside 
this  saloon  (or  "  stern-cabin  ")  was  the  main-mast,  forward  of  which  lay 
the  well-deck  with  officers'  quarters,  and  the  forecastle.  The  Lammermuif 
was  a  three-masted  iron  sailing-ship  of  760  tons  burden. 


72  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Eleven  and  a  half  weeks  were  occupied  in  this  part  of  the 
voyage,  weeks  chiefly  memorable  for  the  change  they  brought 
to  many  a  life  on  board. 

For  the  sailors  had  been  watching  these  unusual  pass- 
engers, whose  company  they  had  looked  forward  to  with 
an5rthing  but  satisfaction.  One  missionary  v/ould  have 
been  bad  enough,  but  a  whole  ship's  load  of  them  !  It  was 
*'  a  pretty  go,"  as  the  first  mate  told  his  wife  before  leaving, 
and  more  than  he  "  wished  they  were  out  of  it."  For  the 
Lammermiiir  carried  a  godless  crew,  though  the  Captain  was 
a  Christian.  This  was  a  great  help,  as  he  gave  permission 
for  Sunday  services  and  put  no  hindrance  in  the  way  of 
intercourse  with  the  men.  But  the  latter  held  aloof  for 
some  time,  and  the  missionaries  were  wise  enough  to  give 
them  plenty  of  line. 

There  are  some  things,  however,  that  cannot  be  hid, 
chief  est  of  which  is  the  fragrance  of  Christ  in  a  spirit  made 
loving  and  helpful  by  His  presence.  This  was  not  lacking 
on  board  the  Lammermuir,  and  before  long  it  began  to  be 
strangely  attractive.  Hardly  knowing  what  it  was  that 
drew  them,  the  men  found  their  hearts  open  to  spiritual 
influences  as  never  before.  The  missionaries,  after  all,  were 
not  such  a  bad  lot !  When  a  difficult  piece  of  forging  had 
to  be  done,  Nicol,  the  Scotch  blacksmith,  was  better  at  it 
than  any  of  themselves.  Jackson  and  Williamson,  the 
carpenters,  were  always  ready  to  lend  a  hand  ;  and  in  the 
absence  of  a  ship's  doctor  Mr.  Taylor's  surgical  skill,  gladly 
placed  at  their  disposal,  was  invaluable.  Then  he  gave 
capital  lectures — talks  on  the  eye,  the  circulation  of  the 
blood,  first  aid  to  the  injured,  etc.,  which  helped  to  pass  the 
time.  And  there  was  more  than  that.  Seen  at  close 
quarters,  these  people  were  downright  happy — always  busy, 
always  kindly,  and  given  to  singing. 

It  was  queer,  that  part  of  it  !  for  what  could  there  be  in 
the  life  they  had  chosen  to  make  them  want  to  sing  ?  Yet 
morning,  noon,  and  night,  in  the  stern-cabin  v.ith  their 
harmonium  or  out  on  deck,  whether  two  or  three  alone  or 
the  whole  company  together,  they  seemed  never  to  tire. 
True  it  was  only  hymns  they  sang,  but  what  could  touch 


MY  PRESENCE  SHALL  GO  WITH  THEE        73 

deeper  chords  ?  "  Yes,  we  part,  but  not  for  ever,"  "  Jesu, 
Lover  of  my  soul,"  "  Rock  of  Ages,  cleft  for  me  " — to  them 
it  all  seemed  so  real ! 

Thou,  O  Christ,  art  all  I  want. 
More  than  all  in  Thee  I  find.  .  ,  , 

Yes,  it  was  plain  enough  :  religion  meant  something  to  these 
people.  And  little  by  little  not  a  few  on  board,  instead  of 
wishing  themselves  out  of  it,  began  to  wish  they  were  in  it 
in  any  real  sense. 

"  The  Captain,  officers,  and  crew  are  most  kind  to  us,"  Mr. 
Taylor  wrote  at  the  beginning  of  the  voyage.  "  The  cabin 
steward  is  a  Christian.  May  God  give  us  to  see  many  conversions 
ere  we  leave  the  vessel." 

"  The  friendly  feehng  only  increases,"  he  added  a  week  later. 
"  Continue  to  pray  for  us :  God  is  answering.  .  .  .  What  we  need 
is  more  of  His  grace,  more  faith,  more  devotion  to  Him,  more  love 
for  souls.     May  these  be  given  us  for  Jesus'  sake." 

Before  ever  they  had  seen  the  Lammermuir,  or  the  crew 
had  been  engaged  for  the  voyage,  much  prayer  had  been 
made  for  those  with  whom  they  were  to  travel  all  the  way 
to  China.  Very  definitely  they  had  asked  for  a  ship's- 
company  to  whom  the  Lord  would  bless  His  Word.  That 
prayer  was  still  going  up,  both  on  board  and  at  home,  and 
they  were  eagerly  looking  for  the  answer.  "  A  voyage 
across  the  ocean  will  not  make  any  one  a  soul- winner,"  as 
Mr.  Taylor  often  said  ;  but  these  fellow-workers,  whatever 
they  may  have  lacked  in  some  directions,  possessed  that 
personal  knowledge  of  God  which  makes  men  keen  about 
bringing  others  to  know  Him  too. 

And  Mr.  Taylor's  example  helped  them  not  a,  little. 
Soul-winning  was  to  him  as  it  had  always  been,  the  very 
object  of  his  existence  as  a  Christian.  For  this  he  lived, 
prayed,  laboured ;  and  amid  the  many  responsibilities  thatj 
had  come  upon  him  he  was  still,  in  this  sense,  the  true 
missionary.  He  encouraged  his  fellow-workers  also  ini 
putting  prayer,  definite,  believing  prayer,  before  any  other| 
means  to  bring  about  conversion,  and  in  seeking  to  live  the!/ 
hfe  that  makes  such  prayer  possible.     Well  he  knew  how/ 


74  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

j  easy  it  is  on  board  ship  to  drift  into  an  unhelpful  spirit,  and 
lose  all  influence  for  good  over  others.     Novel-reading,  waste 

'  of  time,  and  self-indulgence  at  table  were  carefully  watched 
against,  and  the  daily  prayer-meeting  kept  up  which,  regis- 
tered unerringly  the  spiritual  temperature  of  the  little 
company.  Chinese  study  and  useful  reading  occupied  a 
good  part  of  the  day ;  Mr.  Taylor  himself  having  a  Greek 
Grammar  on  hand,  and  Wordsworth's  Commentary  on 
Leviticus.  But  the  eternal  welfare  of  those  with  whom  they 
travelled  was  sought  directly,  as  well  as  in  these  indirect 
but  potent  ways. 

The  conversion  of  the  second  officer,  twenty-five  days 
out  from  Plymouth,  was  a  welcome  answer  to  prayer,  and 
was  quickly  followed  by  that  of  two  of  the  midshipmen. 
This  was  the  beginning  of  an  awakening  among  the  crew 
which  continued  for  some  time.  Concern  about  spiritual 
things  began  to  lay  hold  of  them,  and  there  was  great  joy 
among  the  missionaries  as  one  after  another  came  out  into 
the  light. 

"  I  can  give  you  but  little  idea,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  to  Mr. 
Berger,  "  of  the  precious  answers  to  prayer  we  have  received,  and 
of  the  blessed  change  wrought  in  some  of  these  men.  Four  of 
them  were  Romanists  ;  now  they  are  resting  on  the  finished  work 
of  Christ  and  prizing  His  words.  .  .  .  We  hope  to  see  others 
brought  in  before  long  ...  for  did  we  not  ask  God  to  gather  a 
crew  to  whom  He  would  bless  His  Word,  and  will  He  not  continue 
to  answer  ?  Dear  Mr.  Berger,  I  do  wish  you  could  have  been  with 
us  some  times  when  we  have  received  special  answers  to  prayer. 
Our  joy  has  Uterally  overflowed,  and  we  have  longed  that  our 
friends  at  home  could  know  of  the  blessing  poured  out  upon  us. 

"  As  is  often  the  case,  God  has  singled  out  some  who  seemed 
most  unlikely,  and  who  at  first  manifested  the  greatest  opposition 
to  the  Gospel.  .  .  .  Others  again  being  foreigners  with  little 
knowledge  of  English  seemed  difficult  to  reach,  but  the  Lord  has 
opened  their  hearts.  .  .  . 

"  We  commenced  by  having  service  on  Sunday  morning  in  the 
saloon  with  Captain  Bell's  permission.  A  few  of  the  sailors  came. 
Then  the  young  men  started  an  afternoon  meeting  in  the  fore- 
castle, held  thrice  weekly.  Nor  were  our  sisters  less  active. 
Mary  Bell  began  a  Bible  Class,  which  soon  grew  into  a  meeting 
for  reading  the  Scriptures  and  for  prayer  every  night,  Mrs.  Nicol 


MY  PRESENCE  SHALL  GO  WITH  THEE        73 

and  others  joining  her.  Some  were  converted,  and  these  meet- 
ings became  general.  .  .  .  Miss  Desgraz  undertook  reading  with 
the  four  Swedes,  Miss  Faulding  with  a  German,  Miss  Bausum 
with  the  cook  and  a  South  Sea  Islander.  Miss  Barnes  holds  a 
reading-class  for  aU  who  wish  to  improve  themselves  in  English, 
and  has  been  blessed  to  the  conversion  of  several ;  while  the  other 
brethren  and  sisters  have  taken  part  in  personal  conversations 
and  public  meetings." 

High- water  mark  was  reached  early  in  August,  when  the 
first  mate,  who  had  been  a  savage  bully  among  the  men, 
experienced  a  real  change  of  heart.  For  a  month  or  more 
his  wretchedness  had  been  pitiable ;  but  though  under  deep 
conviction  of  sin,  it  was  not  without  a  desperate  struggle 
he  was  able  to  break  with  the  old  life  and  enter  into  peace  in 
believing. 

"  Had  a  special  prayer-meeting  for  the  conversion  of  Mr. 
Brunton,"  is  the  entry  in  Mr.  Taylor's  journal  for  August  3. 

And  the  following  morning  : 

"  Could  not  retire  without  seeing  Mr.  Brunton.  Read  to  him 
at  12.30,  when  he  came  from  his  midnight  watch,  part  of  Mack- 
intosh on  Exodus  xii.  (the  Passover).  After  much  conversation 
and  prayer,  the  Lord  brought  him  into  liberty.  First,  told  my 
dear  wife  and  Miss  Blatchley  (their  friend  and  secretary),  then 
Mr.  Williamson,  who  rose  and  joined  me  in  praise  and  thanks- 
giving to  God.  Then  I  went  to  awake  Mr.  Sell,  though  it  was 
2.30  A.M.     Oh,  how  glad  our  hearts  were  I  "  ^ 

»  "  Mr.  Brunton's  conversion  was  very  interesting,"  wrote  Miss  Rose, 
who  was  going  out  to  be  married  to  Mr.  Meadows.  "  For  several  weeks  he 
was  miserable.  He  had  been  brought  up  a  Roman  CathoUc,  and  there  were 
many  prejudices  to  overcome.  Every  means  was  used  to  help  him,  and 
again  and  again  requests  came  from  those  who  were  going  to  converse 
with  him,  that  they  might  be  prayed  for.  One  night  Mr.  Sell  came  running 
down  from  the  deck  at  twelve  o'clock  saying  that  Mr.  Brunton  had  just 
asked  him  to  go  to  his  cabin  and  pray  with  him.  Two  of  us  were  up  and 
we  united  in  prayer  :  but  he  did  not  find  peace  that  night,  nor  for  many 
weeks  following. 

"  By  the  first  week  in  August,  matters  came  to  a  climax,  and  it  was 
felt  that  if  he  were  to  be  saved  it  must  be  at  once.  He  was  wretched  .  .  . 
it  seemed  a  hfe  and  death  question.  The  enemy  was  determined  not  to 
let  him  go,  and  the  struggle  was  fearful.  On  the  night  of  the  3rd  his 
watch  ended  at  twelve  o'clock,  Mr.  Taylor  went  just  after  and  had  a  long 
conversation  with  him,  those  who  were  up  retiring  to  the  stern-cabin  for 
pvayer.  When  Mr,  Taylor  came  down  and  the  answer  had  not  yet  been 
given,  he  and  another  continued  in  prayer  till  three  o'clock.  The  Bible 
Class  next  day  was  turned  into  a  prayer-meeting,  another  special  meeting 


76  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

The  news  was  quickly  known  all  over  the  ship,  and  deep 
was  the  impression  next  day  when  this  officer  called  out  his 
watch  and  told  them  personally  what  God  had  done  for  his 
soul.  One  young  midshipman  to  whom  he  spoke  gave  his 
heart  to  the  Lord,  and  several  of  the  crew  who  had  been 
halting  between  two  opinions  were  brought  to  decision. 

August  4 :  A  day  of  great  things :  Carter,  Dixon,  and  the 
steward  (Russell)  professed  to  find  peace  through  believing. 
Had  a  protracted  meeting,  tUl  midnight,  to  praise  the  Lord  and 
seek  the  conversion  of  all  hands.  At  midnight,  Mr.  Brunton, 
Carter,  and  Dixon  joined  us,  and  we  gave  thanks  together. 

At  the  request  of  the  crew,  the  daily  meetings  were  now 
moved  from  the  steward's  cabin  to  their  own  quarters, 
where  a  larger  number  could  be  accommodated. 

"  Our  first  meeting  in  the  forecastle  was  held  the  night  before 
last,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  on  August  22.  "  Many  of  our  own 
number  and  most  of  the  sailors  were  present.  It  was  truly  a 
pleasant  sight  !  Card-playing  had  for  some  time  given  place  to 
Bible  reading,  and  fooHsh  songs  to  hymns.  But  now  they  and 
we  were  met  as  believers — brothers  and  sisters  from  various  parts 
of  the  new  and  old  world  and  from  the  islands  of  the  sea — all 
journeying  toward  the  same  blessed  home.  Some  were  seated  on 
sea-chests,  some  on  planks,  some  on  chairs  that  we  had  brought, 
some  on  various  parts  of  the  ship's  fittings,  while  a  few — half- 
ashamed  to  be  seen,  yet  drawn  by  something  they  themselves, 
perhaps,  did  not  understand — were  hiding  behind  the  capstan  or 
hanging  about  the  doors.  The  meeting  commenced  with  the 
hymn : 

Come  let  us  join  our  cheerful  songs 
With  angels  round  the  throne. 

Mr.  Sell  then  engaged  in  prayer,  and  was  followed  by  a  converted 

was  called  in  the  forenoon  ;  and  a  third  would  have  been  held  later,  but 
bad  weather  prevented  it.  God,  however,  knew  the  longing  of  our  hearts, 
and  took  the  work  into  His  own  hands.  Mr.  Taylor  again  met  Mr.  Brunton 
at  midnight,  in  his  cabin  ;  and  while  he  was  explaining  to  him  the  passage, 
•  When  I  see  the  blood,  I  will  pass  over  you,'  hght  broke  I  He  saw  the 
plan  of  salvation  ;  peace  and  joy  took  possession  of  his  heart  ;  and  he  at 
once  poured  cut  his  soul  to  God  in  praise  and  prayer — remembering  us 
each  one  by  name,  all  who  were  unsaved  on  board,  and  his  own  wife  and 
children.  Mr.  Taylor  was  so  overjoyed  that  he  went  and  awoke  Mr.  Sell, 
to  tell  him  the  good  news.  The  latter  got  up  and  woke  me,  and  at  three 
in  the  morning  we  gave  thanks  together.  It  is  impossible  to  describe  the 
rejoicing  of  that  day  1  You  know  what  it  is  to  have  the  burden  of  souls 
upon  your  hearts,  and  the  joy  that  follows  their  conversion." 


MY  PRESENCE  SHALL  GO  WITH  THEE        77 

West  Indian,  who  in  broken  English  poured  out  his  heart  to  God, 
A  passage  in  John  was  read  and  conversed  about.  Another  hymn 
was  sung  ;  prayer  followed  ;  and  Miss  Barnes,  who  had  just  come 
in,  gave  thanks  for  the  conversion  of  one  of  the  men  who  had  been 
in  the  deepest  distress  for  some  time,  and  with  whom  she  had 
been  speaking  on  deck  where  his  duty  detained  him.  Then  one 
of  the  sailors  asked  for,  '  O  happy  day,  that  fixed  my  choice.' 
Prayer  was  again  offered  and  the  meeting  closed  with 

Come,  ye  that  love  the  Lord, 

And  let  your  joys  be  known.  .  .  . 

Then  followed  such  a  shaking  of  hands,  such  mutual  exhortations 
and  expressions  of  Christian  love  as  did  one  good  to  see  and  hear. 
Truly,  the  Lord  is  wonderfully  answering  the  prayers  of  His  dear 
people  who  are  bearing  us  up  at  the  throne  of  grace." 

"  August  23  :  Such  a  happy  meeting  again  last  night  I  The 
second  of  the  four  Swedes  has  found  peace,  and  three  others 
present  were  seeking  Jesus.  The  first  mate  (Mr.  Brunton)  led 
us  in  prayer,  as  did  also  three  of  the  sailors  ;  and  the  joy  was  so 
great  that  it  was  with  difficulty  I  could  get  the  meeting  concluded 
half  an  hour  after  the  time  had  come  for  doing  so." 

Among  themselves,  also,  the  missionaries  had  helpful 
meetings,  and  several  days  were  given  entirely  to  waiting 
upon  God,  in  view  of  all  that  lay  before  them. 

"  On  Saturday  afternoons  we  join  in  Spirit  with  friends  in 
China  and  at  home,"  Mr.  Taylor  continued  to  Mr.  Berger,  "  pray- 
ing for  the  good  of  the  mighty  empire  toward  which  we  are 
journeying.  Our  minds  are  kept  in  peace  as  to  the  future. 
Were  we  never  to  reach  China,  we  should  all  rejoice  in  the  work 
God  has  done  on  the  Lammermuir  ;  and  if  permitted  to  reach  our 
destination.  He  Who  has  led  hitherto  will  be  with  us  and  will 
guide  us  b}*^  a  plain  path." 

Gladly  would  one  leave  the  record  of  the  voyage  at  this 
point,  telling  only  of  the  wonderful  dehverance  from  ship- 
wreck in  the  China  Sea  with  which  it  ended.  But  to  do  so 
would  be  untrue  to  facts,  and  untrue  moreover  to  universal 
experience.  Who  does  not  know,  with  any  spiritual  life 
at  all,  that  where  God  is  working  the  devil  is  sure  to  be 
busy  ;  and  that  the  nearer  one  seeks  to  live  to  the  Lord 
Himself,  the  more  painful  are  the  consequences  of  grieving 
Him  ?     They  were   only  little  things  that  had  come  in 


78  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

'between  one  and  another  of  the  party.  Big  temptations 
would  have  defeated  their  own  end ;  but  Httle  criticisms, 
little  coldnesses,  Httle  jealousies  had  brought  in  disunion 
that  led  to  serious  results.  Prayer  was  hindered ;  and 
to  the  grief  of  all  concerned,  the  work  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
was  so  checked,  that  for  one  whole  month  no  souls  were 
saved,  and  some  who  had  been  anxious  remained  sin- 
burdened  and  undecided.  It  was  a  startling  experience, 
and  deeply  searching :  a  whole  month  without  conversions, 
at  a  time  when  already  many  of  the  men  had  come  over  the 
Hne  and  others  seemed  ready  to  do  so  !  And  in  their 
troubled  hearts  the  missionaries  themselves  knew  what  was 
hindering. 

Yet  it  was  so  hard  to  get  right,  to  get  right  and  to  keep 
right  with  one  another  I  It  was  painful  light  on  the  in- 
spired words,  **  Behold,  how  good  and  how  pleasant  it  is  for 
brethren  to  dwell  together  in  unity  ...  for  there  the  Lord' 
commanded  the  blessing,  even  life  for  evermore.''  The  fact 
that  they  were  hving,  most  of  them,  in  true  fellowship  with 
God  made  the  grief  of  failure  the  more  distressing.  It  made 
it  also  the  more  needful  for  the  Lord  to  let  that  grief  be  felt. 
Evidences  of  the  self-hfe  in  those  who  had  not  come  so  near 
to  Him  might  be  less  disastrous  in  their  results ;  but  "  whom 
the  Lord  loveth  He  chasteneth."  It  is  the  fruitful  branch 
He  purges,  that  it  may  bring  forth  "  more  fruit." 

To  Mr.  Taylor,  needless  to  say,  these  developments 
caused  deep  concern.  Could  he  by  ma'e  watchfulness  have 
safeguarded  his  fellow-workers  and  prevented  misunder- 
standings ?  Could  he  now,  prevaiUng  first  with  God,  bring 
them  to  a  better  mind,  and  restore  "  the  unity  of  the  Spirit 
in  the  bond  of  peace  "  ? 

"  This  morning,"  runs  a  note  in  his  journal  early  in  July, 
"  had  some  conversation  with  Mr.  Nicol  about  the  present  state 
of  matters.  Sell  Joined  us  and  afterwards  Williamson,  and  we 
decided  on  holding  a  special  meeting  for  confession  and  prayer 
for  the  increase  of  love  and  unity.  Spoke  to  most  of  them 
privately,  and  affectionately  urged  the  need  of  a  better  spirit. 
We  met  in  the  evening,  and  the  Lord  was  with  us  indeed.  I 
trust  He  gave  to  all  present  a  real  desire  to  be  united  in  love." 


MY  PRESENCE  SHALL  GO  WITH  THEE        79 

But  the  danger  was  a  recurring  one,  and  a  couple  of 
months  later  a  spirit  of  discord  again  crept  in.  It  was  on 
different  grounds  this  time  and  with  other  members  of  the 
party,  but  the  outcome  was  the  same — criticism,  discontent, 
loss  of  power  and  blessing. 

"  Almost  all  the  party  deploring  the  want  of  more  unity  and 
love,"  is  the  record  for  September  8.  "  The  Lord  make  bare  His 
arm  on  our  behalf." 

The  notable  thing  is  that  they  did  deplore  it ;  that  they  saw\ 
and  felt  the  danger;  could  not  go  on  in  such  a  condition,  | 
even  on  ship-board,  and  gave  themselves  to  heart-searching  ( 
before  the  Lord.  Prayer  and  fasting  again  turned  the  tide..:  ? 
for  to  those  who  humble  themselves  before  Him  it  is  still  \ 
true,  "  When  the  enemy  shall  come  in  like  a  flood,  the ! 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  shall  Uft  up  a  standard  against  him." 

Then  the  adversary  changed  his  tactics.  Unsuccessful 
in  wrecking  the  spiritual  usefulness  of  the  party,  it  seemed 
as  though  *'  the  Prince  of  the  Power  of  the  Air  "  let  loose 
his  fiercest  legions,  determined  on  the  destruction  in  one 
way  or  another  of  the  infant  mission.  For  fifteen  days  and 
nights  the  stress  of  storm  and  tempest  lay  upon  them. 
Caught  in  one  typhoon  after  another  they  beat  up  the  China 
Sea  all  but  a  wreck — sails  gone,  masts  gone,  everything 
gone  but  their  steadfast  hope  in  God.  Of  the  beginning  of 
this  terrible  experience  Miss  Blatchley  wrote  : 

On  Monday  morning  (September  10)  the  sun  rose  as  usual  and 
the  wind  was  fair,  but  in  the  afternoon  the  weather  became 
squaUy.  The  wind  increased,  the  glass  was  steadily  falling,  and 
before  night  it  was  but  too  clear  that  we  were  on  the  edge  of  a 
typhoon.  The  night  was  fearfully  rough,  with  a  wild  sea.  The 
rain  descended  as  if  the  clouds  were  coming  down  bodily,  while 
the  raging  of  the  wind  made  it  exceedingly  difficult  to  pass  orders. 
More  than  once  aU  the  men  on  dMty  were  nearly  swept  overboard 
by  heavy  seas.  In  the  darkness  Httle  could  be  done.  We  could 
only  watch,  and  commend  ourselves  and  more  especially  the  crew 
to  God's  keeping.  .  ,  . 

All  Tuesday  the  glass  continued  to  fall,  and  the  wind  and 
sea  were  unabated.  But  we  were  beginning  to  hope  from  the 
direction  of  the  wind  that  we  were  on  the  outer  edge  of  the 
typhoon. 


8o  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

On  Wednesday  the  sun  was  visible,  the  rain  ceased  and  the 
glass  was  no  longer  falling.  We  were  safe  ;  we  had  a  fair  wind, 
and  toward  noon  sighted  Formosa.  ...  So  we  renewed  hope  of 
reaching  Shanghai  on  the  Saturday  following.  But  on  Thursday, 
a  strong  gale  blew  right  ahead,  with  a  tremendous  sea  on,  so  that 
we  were  driven  out  of  our  course.  .  .  .  This  gale  continued  all 
Friday.  Moreover,  we  were  now  among  shoals  and  breakers. 
Heavy  seas  were  sweeping  the  decks,  loosening  things  from  their 
lashings.  Many  of  the  sailors  were  ill,  and  the  storm  we  had 
already  passed  had  weakened  the  ship,  rendering  her  very  unfit 
to  meet  another  gale.  We  were  all  feeling  worn  out  with  want 
of  rest,  with  the  perpetual  tossing,  our  wet  clothes,  etc.,  and  were 
longing  to  reach  our  desired  haven.  We  were,  indeed,  within  a 
couple  of  days'  good  run  of  it  :  but  the  wind  continued  adverse, 
and  we  had  constantly  to  tack,  with  the  prospect  of  having  to 
beat  all  up  the  China  Sea  in  the  teeth  of  a  N.E.  simoon. 

At  last  with  longing  eyes  we  sighted  Fu-kien  on  Tuesday  the 
i8th  of  September.  The  waters  were  becoming  pale,  earnest  of 
our  approach  to  the  Yangtze.  But  we  were  still  beating  to  wind- 
ward, and  continued  to  do  so  all  Wednesday,  not  only  making 
nothing,  but  not  even  holding  our  own,  for  we  lost  some  twenty 
knots  or  more.  It  was  tedious  work,  but  we  kept  up  courage  and 
cheered  our  weariness  by  constant  communion  v/ith  Him  Who 
is  our  hope  and  our  salvation.  The  old,  famiHar  hymns  had  now 
new  meaning.  While  the  winds  raged,  we  sang  "  Jesu,  Lover  of 
my  soul,"  "  Rock  of  Ages,"  "  O  God.  our  help  in  ages  past," 
and  others.  We  could  not  always  raise  our  voices  above  the 
storm,  but  at  least  thev  mingled  with  it,  they  and  it  praising 
God. 

In  the  night  especially  we  had  prayer,  because  the  darkness 
prevented  much  from  being  done  or  attempted  about  the  ship. 
Of  course  rest  was  out  of  the  question.  When  the  tempests  were 
upon  us  we  were  tossed  up  and  down  as  if  our  iron  ship  were 
nothing — now  on  the  crest  of  a  wave,  now  in  a  deep  vaUey,  now 
thro\\m  on  her  port,  now  on  her  starboard  side,  almost  dipping 
her  yard-ends  into  the  sea,  and  agam  plunging  forward,  her  fore- 
castle right  under  water.  In  this  condition  we  were  wearying 
for  land  .  .  .  and  it  would  have  been  with  despairing  feelings 
we  watched  the  wind  increase  ...  but  for  the  assurance  that 
God's  arm  was  closely  round  us,  and  at  the  same  time  ruling  all 
powers. 

Twelve  days  the  storm  had  been  upon  them,  but  the 
worst  was  yet  to  come. 

"  It  is  useless  to  attempt  to  describe,"  wrote  Miss  Faulding, 


MY  PRESENCE  SHALL  GO  WITH  THEE        8i 

"  what  passed  on  Saturday,  Sunday  and  Monday  "  (Sept.  22-24). 
"  The  sea  washed  our  lea  bulwarks  away,  and  seemed  as  if 
it  would  carry  ever5^hing  before  it.  Our  mainsail  was  torn 
to  ribbons  ;  the  jib-boom  and  fore,  main  and  mizen  masts  were 
carried  away,  and  it  seemed  impossible  we  should  weather  it. 
I  am  glad  to  say  we  were  all  kept  calm,  ready  for  life  or  death. 
We  were  making  water  fast.  The  broken  masts  were  hanging 
over  our  heads  as  if  by  a  thread,  swinging  about  fearfully  and 
threatening  every  moment  to  fall — which  if  they  had  done,  the 
deck  or  side  of  the  vessel  must  have  been  staved  in,  and  we  should 
have  gone  down  in  a  few  minutes.  I  did  feel  so  thankful  that  you 
could  not  know ;  for  I  had  the  strongest  conviction  that  our 
Uves  would  not  be  lost." 

But  for  the  courageous  example  of  Mr.  Taylor,^  and 
indeed  all  the  missionary  party,  things  would  have  gone 
very  differently  however.  In  outward  prosperity,  during 
the  earlier  part  of  the  voyage,  they  had  been  learning  some- 
thing of  their  spiritual  foes  and  "  the  need,"  as  Mr.  Taylor 
wrote,  "of  having  our  souls  stayed  upon  God,  and  of  cling- 
ing to  Him  in  ceaseless  prayer  "  ;  now  it  was  His  purpose 
to  teach  them  in  a  different  way,  "  the  blessedness  of  trust- 
ing Him  in  the  hour  of  human  helplessness  and  danger." 
Of  those  last,  worst  days  he  wrote  : 

Friday,  Sept.  21 :  The  gale  increasing  and  having  all  the 
appearance  of  another  typhoon,  we  had  prayer  together  from 
time  to  time  during  the  afternoon  and  night.  The  decks  were 
swept  by  the  sea  in  a  manner  I  have  never  before  witnessed. 

Saturday,  Sept.  22 :  The  jibs  and  stay-sails  gave  way  early 
this  morning.  So  fearful  was  the  sea  that  the  men  refused  to 
go  out  and  secure  them.     The  Captain  and  first  Mate  went  on 

1  "  All  through  the  storm,"  said  Mr.  Rudland,  "  Mr.  Taylor  was  per- 
fectly calm.  When  almost  at  its  height  the  men  refused  to  work  any 
longer.  The  Captain  had  advised  all  to  put  on  life-belts.  '  She  can 
scarcely  hold  together  two  hours,'  was  his  verdict.  At  this  juncture  he  was 
going  to  the  forecastle,  where  the  men  were  taking  refuge,  revolver  in 
hand.  Mr.  Taylor  went  up  to  him.  '  Don't  use  force,'  he  said,  '  till 
everything  else  has  been  tried.'  He  then  went  in  quietly  and  talked 
to  the  men,  telling  them  he  believed  God  would  bring  us  through,  but 
that  everything  depended  upon  the  greatest  care  in  navigating  the  ship, 
in  other  words,  upon  the  men  themselves.  '  We  will  all  help,'  he  added; 
'  our  lives  are  in  jeopardy  as  much  as  yours.'  The  men  were  completely 
reassured  by  bis  quiet  demeanour  and  friendly  reasoning,  and  with  officers, 
midshipmen,  and  the  rest  of  us  went  to  work  in  earnest  at  the  wreckage, 
and  before  long  got  in  the  great  iion  spars  that  were  ramming  the  side  of 
the  ship." 

G 


82  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

the  forecastle  .  .  .  the  men  followed,  but  soon  all  had  to  be 
recalled  as  the  vessel  was  driving  into  the  sea.  Soon  after  this 
the  lea,  upper  bulwarks,  began  to  give  way,  and  before  long  all 
this  side  was  overboard.  Next,  the  jib-boom  and  flying  jib-boom 
gave  way,  followed  immediately  by  the  foretop  and  top-gallant 
masts  and  the  maintop-gallant  mast.  They  hung  by  the  wire 
shrouds,  swinging  about  most  fearfully,  owing  to  the  heavy  roll- 
ing of  the  ship. 

The  appearance  of  things  was  now  truly  terrific.  The  decks 
full  of  water,  which  poured  over  both  sides  as  she  rolled,  were 
encumbered  with  floating  spars,  tubs,  buckets,  casks,  etc. 
Besides  the  danger  of  being  washed  overboard,  there  was  no 
small  risk  of  having  one's  limbs  broken  by  moving  timbers,  torn 
from  their  moorings.  Prayer  to  God  was  our  only  resource. 
The  sailors,  paralysed,  ga.ve  up  work.  The  probability  seemed 
that  our  hours,  if  not  minutes,  were  numbered.  I  kissed  the  dear 
children,  and  viith  the  young  men  of  our  party  went  out  and  set 
to  work,  hoping  to  encourage  others.  Commending  ourselves  to 
God,  we  began  to  secure  the  floating  things  and  cut  away  the 
wreckage.  This  stimulated  some  of  the  crew  to  help  us.  Many 
of  the  smaller  things  washed  overboard,  and  the  larger  we  secured 
from  time  to  time,  for  the  fury  of  the  waves  was  such  that  no  lash- 
ings would  stand  long.  The  water-casks  having  been  swept  away 
no  fresh  water  was  procurable,  for  we  dared  not  open  the  tanks 
in  the  gale.  Cooking  was  out  of  the  question,  and  we  had  to  eat 
a  little  biscuit  and  cheese  or  butter  from  time  to  time.  Through 
God's  blessing  the  wreck  of  the  fore  masts  and  jib-booms  was 
safely  got  over  the  side.  The  main  mast  was  swinging  fearfully, 
and  water  was  going  down  into  the  hold  in  large  quantities  by  the 
foot  of  the  mast  and  by  the  anchor  pipes,  the  covers  of  which  had 
been  washed  away.  These  places  were  now  secured,  and  as  the 
afternoon  was  far  advanced  no  more  could  be  attempted. 

We  were  still  in  very  bad  shape.  Rolling  fearfully,  the 
masts  and  yards  hanging  down  were  tearing  our  only  sail  (the 
main  lower  top-sail)  and  were  battering  Hke  a  ram  against  the 
main  yard.  The  deck  from  forecastle  to  poop  was  one  scarcely- 
broken  sea.  The  roar  of  the  water,  the  clanging  of  chains,  the 
beating  of  the  dangling  masts  and  yards,  the  sharp  smack  of  the 
torn  sails  made  it  almost  impossible  to  hear  any  orders  that  might 
be  given.  Providentially  the  moon  was  bright  and  the  night 
light.  Though  all  were  tired  out,  there  was  httle  sleeping. 
About  10  P.M.  the  mizen  top-gallant  royal  mast  gave  way, 
and  with  the  royal  yard  hung  swinging  about.  The  rain 
and  spray  beat  desperately,  and  the  force  of  the  wind  was  such 
that  it  was  impossible   to  stand  on  the  poop  without  holding 


MY  PRESENCE  SHALL  GO  WITH  THEE        83 

on.     Captain  Bell  kept  moving  about,  though  so  unwell — half 
his  face  paralysed. 

Sunday,  Sept.  23  :  Very  weary  in  body  we  recommenced 
at  6  A.M.  .  .  .  The  pumps  were  got  to  work,  and  ropes  being 
carried  into  the  saloon  the  ladies  helped  in  pumping.  .  .  .  The 
rolling  continued  to  be  very  heavy,  and  at  times  the  decks  were 
one  sheet  of  water,  rushing  and  roaring  in  a  way  to  appal  the 
stoutest  heart.  The  ship  began  to  labour  very  heavily,  leading 
us  to  think  that  she  was  taking  water,  but  of  this  we  could  get 
no  certainty.  Worn  out  after  a  hard  day's  work,  we  did  not 
attempt  a  service,  but  lay  down  for  a  little  rest.  This  was  often 
disturbed  by  unusually  heavy  seas  and  rolls,  when  it  seemed  as 
though  we  must  be  going  down  at  once.  But  after  a  while  she 
would  get  more  quiet,  and  moonUght  and  lessening  wind  gave 
rise  to  hope. 

Although  the  storm  was  blowing  over,  this  second 
Monday  was  the  most  anxious  day  of  all.  Every  one  on 
board  was  worn  out ;  the  pumps  would  not  work,  and  they 
were  shipping  water  fast.  What  it  must  have  been  to  Mrs. 
Taylor  with  the  little  ones  about  her  may  be  better  imagined 
than  described. 

"  But  it  was  sweet  to  rejoice  in  God  through  all,"  she  wrote  ; 
"  to  rest  in  past  proofs  of  His  love,  independently  of  present 
circumstances  ;  and  I  entered  into  Habakkuk's  song  as  never 
before,  '  Yet  will  I  rejoice  in  the  Lord  ;  I  will  glory  in  the  God  of 
my  salvation.'  " 


CHAPTER  VII 

TO   SEARCH   OUT  A   RESTING-PLACE 

1866.     Aet.  34. 

It  was  a  bright  September  Sunday,  five  days  after  the  storm 
passed  away,  when  the  Lammermuir  at  length  came  to  anchor 
off  the  foreign  settlement  of  Shanghai.  Her  broken,  dis- 
mantled condition  made  her  an  object  of  general  curiosity 
among  the  gaily-painted  junks  and  foreign  shipping ;  but 
when  it  became  known  that  she  only  carried  missionaries, 
albeit  the  largest  party  that  had  yet  come  to  China,  interest 
soon  subsided,  and  beyond  a  few  facetious  remarks  in  the 
papers  little  notice  was  taken  of  the  new  arrivals. 

To  themselves  that  quiet  Sunday  was  specially  grateful. 
They  did  not  go  ashore,  and  out  on  the  river  were  protected 
from  many  visitors.  Their  hearts  were  full  of  thankfulness 
for  recent  deliverances — more  wonderful,  even,  than  they 
realised  at  the  time.  A  vessel  coming  in  soon  after  their 
own  proved  to  have  lost  sixteen  out  of  a  ship's  company  of 
twenty-two,  while  on  the  Lammermuir  none  were  missing 
or  seriously  injured ;  and  no  sooner  had  they  reached  a 
place  of  safety  than  terrific  gales  again  swept  the  coast, 
which  in  their  disabled  condition  they  could  not  possibly 
have  weathered. 

"  God  grant  that  having  been  brought  so  near  to  eternity  and 
then  spared  for  awhile,"  wrote  one  of  the  party,  "  our  lives  may 
be  more  entirely  devoted  to  Him  and  to  the  work  before  us. 
Through  all  I  never  felt  the  least  regret,  or  anything  but  joy 
in  the  thought  that  I  had  come." 

The  voyage  over,  Mr.  Taylor's  difficulties  were  in  a  sense 

84 


TO  SEARCH  OUT  A  RESTING-PLACE  85 

begun.  Looking  out  on  that  familiar  scene — the  crowded 
river,  the  European  houses  along  the  Bund,  and  the  wall  of 
the  Chinese  city  beyond — he  realised  in  a  very  practical  way 
the  responsibilities  that  had  come  to  him.  Where  was  he 
to  find  accommodation  for  so  large  a  party  that  would  afford 
the  facilities  required  ?  Boxes  from  the  hold,  more  or  less 
soaked  with  sea  water,  and  all  the  baggage  from  the  cabins 
had  to  be  unpacked,  dried,  and  rearranged.  Much  must  be 
left  in  Shanghai  for  a  time,  as  in  addition  to  personal  belong- 
ings they  had  with  them  household  goods  from  Coborn 
Street,  a  considerable  quantity  of  stores,  printing  and  Htho- 
graphic  presses,  and  a  large  supply  of  drugs  and  medical 
apparatus.  Ail  these,  after  careful  examination,  needed 
safe  dry  storage,  and  the  washing  machines,  mangle,  and 
ironing-stove  must  be  unpacked  and  set  to  work,  for  there 
was  the  clothing  of  more  than  twenty  people  to  be  laundered 
after  a  four  months'  voyage.  Little  wonder  he  was  tempted 
to  feel  anxious,  remembering  the  difficulty  of  obtaining  even 
temporary  accommodation  in  the  Settlement.^ 

For  those  were  not  the  days  of  Missionary  Homes  and 
Agencies.  Foreign  hotels  were  few  and  very  costly  ;  Chinese 
inns  were  out  of  the  question  for  such  a  party ;  and  the 
native  boats  to  which  they  might  have  been  transferred 
would  not  have  met  the  case.  Furnished  houses  were 
rarely  to  be  had,  even  if  expense  were  no  consideration,  and 
the  hospitality  of  European  residents  could  not  reasonably 
be  counted  on.     The  missionary  community  in  Shanghai  at 

»  It  is  impossible,  in  view  of  the  cosmopolitan  city  of  to-day,  to  imagine 
how  primitive  were  the  conditions  in  Shanghai  as  recently  as  1866.  A 
temporary  building,  since  used  as  a  gymnasium,  did  duty  for  the  Cathedral. 
The  British  Consulate,  though  occupying  the  same  site  as  at  present,  was 
an  insignificant  structure.  The  Garden  Bridge,  now  traversed  daily  by  a 
ceaseless  stream  of  vehicles,  was  so  narrow  fiiat  two  wheelbarrows  could 
barely  pass  each  other,  and  pedestrians  had  to  pay  a  three  cash  toll.  As 
to  conveyances,  the  choice  lay  between  sedan-chairs  and  wheelbarrows, 
rickshaws  not  liaving  yet  come  over  from  Japan.  One  of  the  Consuls 
possessed  a  carriage,  and  so  did  the  Commissioner  of  Customs  ;  but  there 
was  little  use  for  them,  the  Bund  scarcely  extending  beyond  the  British 
Settlement,  and  the  Nanking  Road  soon  running  off  into  fields  and  market- 
gardens.  Other  roads  were  just  tracks  and  footpaths,  save  where  they 
neared  the  river,  and  the  Gardens  of  to-day  were,  at  low  tide,  an  un- 
savoury mud  bank.  As  for  the  native  city,  walled  in  and  crowded  with  a 
dense  population,  the  less  said  of  it  the  better,  from  a  European  stand- 
point. 


86  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

the  time  consisted  of  only  nine  married  and  three  single 
men  ;  and  who  among  them  would  be  able,  however  willing, 
to  receive  so  many  visitors  ?  Then  again,  if  the  party  had 
to  be  divided,  some  in  one  home  and  some  in  another,  how 
was  the  work  to  be  attended  to  ?  Altogether  the  situation 
was  complicated  and  would  have  given  rise  to  anxiety,  had 
it  not  been  that,  both  from  the  Lammermuir  and  from 
friends  at  home,  prayer  had  been  going  up  for  months  past 
that  the  Lord  would  Himself  see  and  provide. 

Meanwhile,  unknown  to  Mr.  Taylor,  a  friend  of  Ningpo 
days  had  moved  up  to  Shanghai,  bringing  with  him  the 
printing-press  of  the  American  Presbyterian  Mission.  In  a 
semi-foreign  house  he  was  living  near  the  Chinese  city  (East 
Gate),  and  with  a  view  to  future  needs  had  purchased  a 
disused  building  intended  for  a  theatre,  which  formed  a 
convenient  warehouse  or  "  go-down  "  connected  with  his 
premises.  Large  and  empty,  this  building  immediately 
suggested  itself  when  the  Lammermuir  appeared  in  the 
river  and  he  learned  that  it  carried  Mr.  Taylor's  party. 
How  they  must  need  the  cheer  of  a  friendly  welcome,  and 
some  place  in  which  to  dispose  their  belongings  !  If  nothing 
better  offered,  his  home  was  open  to  them,  such  as  it  was, 
with  the  "  go-down  "  in  addition.  So  taking  a  sampan  ^ 
that  very  afternoon,  William  Gamble  sought  out  his  friends 
to  put  at  their  disposal  a  bachelor's  hospitality. 

Almost  too  good  to  be  true  must  it  have  seemed  when, 
three  days  later,  Mr.  Taylor  returned  from  Ningpo  to  remove 
his  family  and  fellow- workers  to  the  quarters  thus  provided. 
Captain  Bell  had  insisted  on  their  remaining  on  the  Lammer- 
muir meanwhile  ;  and  though  absent  so  short  a  time  Mr. 
Taylor  had  been  greatly  prospered.  Escorting  Miss  Rose 
to  her  future  home,  he  had  been  enabled  to  come  into  touch 
with  all  the  senior  members  of  the  Mission,  save  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Stevenson,  who  were  some  distance  inland. ^    The  church  at 

i  The  primitive  Chinese  gondola. 

«  In  the  great  city  of  Shao-hing-fu  with  a  quarter  of  a  million  inhabit- 
ants they  had  succeeded  in  obtaining  a  footing,  adding  thus  a  fourth 
station  to  those  already  opened  by  the  Mission  before  the  arrival  of  the 
Lammermuir  party.  Living  over  their  httle  chapel  at  the  junction  of 
three  busy  streets,  hard  by  one  of  the  water-ways  of  that  Venice  of  mid- 
China,  they  were  "  feeling  very  happy  and  getting  on  with  the  language," 


TO  SEARCH  OUT  A  RESTING-PLACE  87 

Bridge  Street,  amid  their  rejoicing,  had  come  to  his  help  in  a 
practical  way,  for  which  he  was  most  thankful — sending 
back  with  him  the  evangelist  Tsiu,  one  of  the  fruits  of  his 
own  early  labours,  and  a  Christian  woman  as  well  as  two 
men  to  help  in  caring  for  the  new  arrivals. 

"  He  gently  clears  our  way,"  wrote  Mrs.  Taylor  the  following 
Sunday.  "  On  the  morning  of  this  day  last  week  (Sept.  30)  we 
knew  not  where  we  should  store  our  goods,  and  had  it  not  been 
that  Captain  Bell  arranged  for  us  to  stay  on  board,  we  should 
not  have  known  where  to  lay  our  heads.  That  any  missionary 
would  be  able  to  receive  us  all  seemed  impossible  ;  and  here  God 
had  in  readiness  one  who  not  only  can  accommodate  our  party, 
but  whose  views  concerning  missionary  work  coincide  in  large 
measure  with  Hudson's.  All  our  goods,  with  the  exception  of  a 
few  boxes  not  yet  brought  out  of  the  hold,  are  safe  in  Mr.  Gamble's 
'  go-down,'  where  Hudson  and  I  and  four  of  the  young  men  sleep. 
The  others  are  in  Mr.  Gamble's  house,  where  we  all  take  our 
meals  ;  and  he  has  kindly  promised,  though  somewhat  reluct- 
antly I  believe,  to  allow  us  to  remunerate  him  for  our  board." 

At  the  end  of  the  "  go-down  "  the  floor  of  the  stage 
remained,  and  on  this  were  extemporised  sleeping  compart- 
ments— sheets  being  pinned  together  for  walls  and  a  step- 
ladder  doing  duty  as  staircase. 

"  There  is  no  lack  of  ventilation,"  wrote  one  of  those  billeted 
there,  "  the  windows  being  unglazed,  square  openings,  supple- 
mented by  plenty  of  crevices  in  the  roof.  The  wind  makes 
noises  ghostly  enough  for  any  romance  ;  and  the  rats  keep  up  a 
perpetual  scuffle  among  our  boxes  and  the  loose  str^w.  On 
windy  nights  our  linen  walls  are  very  restless  indeed  ;  but  there 
is  not  much  difficulty  in  sleeping  after  a  long  day's  work." 

"  We  had  our  two  stoves  put  up,"  recalled  another,  who  with 
her  Swiss  training  was  a  competent  laundress,  "  and  with  wash- 
ing, mangling,  and  ironing  going  on  at  the  same  time  .  .  .  the 
warehouse  was  as  busy  as  a  beehive.  We  often  wished  friends 
at  home  could  have  looked  in  upon  us,  just  to  see  how  happy  we 
all  were  I  It  would  have  rejoiced  their  hearts  to  see  how  lovingly, 
how  kindly  the  Lord  was  dealing  with  His  children." 

"  Missionary  work  under  the  most  favourable  conditions," 
was  Miss  Paulding's  impression  of  it  aU  I     "  Mr.  Taylor  does 

not  another  foreigner  to  be  found  in  a  long  day's  journey.  Neng-kwei,  the 
basket-raaker  of  Ningpo,  was  their  helper  ;  for  whose  story  see  Hudson 
Taylor  in  Early  Years,  pp.  461-2. 


88  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

manage  so  nicely  for  us  ;   he  thoroughly  understands  how  to  go 
about  everything." 

In  the  midst  of  many  occupations  he  had  little  time  for 
writing,  and  little  thought  to  give  to  the  criticisms  that 
buzzed  about  the  foreign  community.  That  ladies  should 
be  brought  out  to  wear  Chinese  dress  and  live  in  the  interior 
roused  indignation  in  certain  quarters.  It  was  freely  hinted 
that  Mr.  Taylor  must  be  a  madman  or  worse,  and  that 
Bedlam  would  have  been  a  safer  destination  for  himself  and 
his  companions  than  Shanghai.  *'  But  he  went  quietly 
on,"  as  Mr.  Rudland  remembered,  "  saying  little  or  nothing 
about  it ;  always  letting  discourtesies  drop  out  of  sight  so 
graciously,  without  affecting  his  own  friendliness." 

One  of  the  few  letters  Mr.  Taylor  did  manage  to  write 
from  Shanghai  w^as  to  his  mother. 

"  The  Lord  is  with  us,"  he  said,  "  and  we  are  all,  I  trust, 
enjoying  fellowship  with  Jesus.  We  have  and  may  expect  to  have 
some  trials : 

But  with  humble  faith  to  see 
Love  inscribed  upon  them  all. 
This  is  happiness  to  me. 

Our  Father  not  only  knows,  but  sends  tliem  all  in  love." 

The  next  stage  of  their  journey  was  to  be  a  leisurely  one, 
via  the  Grand  Canal  to  Hang-chow,  the  far-famed  capital 
of  the  neighbouring  province.  Here  it  was  hoped  they 
might  be  enabled  to  commence  operations  and,  with  Mr. 
Stevenson  between  them  and  Ningpo,  complete  a  chain  of 
C.I.M.  stations  a  hundred  miles  into  the  interior.*  At  one 
or  other  of  the  cities  en  route  Mr.  Taylor  expected  to  leave 
some  of  the  young  men  with  the  evangehst.  They  were  to 
travel  by  native  house-boats,  giving  regular  hours  to  study, 
and  waiting  upon  God  as  to  their  ultimate  location. 

To  take  so  large  a  party  inland  at  all  was  a  step  of  faith, 
especially  as  it  included  an  EngHsh  nurse  and  four  Httle 
children,  besides  six  unmarried  ladies.  In  the  whole  of 
China,    at   that  time,   there  was  not   one  unmarried  lady 

1  Hang-chow  and  Ningpo,  about  a  hundred  miles  apart,  form  approxi- 
mately an  equilateral  triangle,  with  Shanghai  as  its  apex. 


TO  SEARCH  OUT  A  RESTING-PLACE  89 

missionary  to  be  found  away  from  the  treaty  ports  ;  and 
the  entire  staff  of  such  workers,  including  these  new  arrivals, 
numbered  only  seventeen.  Seventeen  missionary  women 
free  to  devote  their  time  to  schools,  hospitals,  and  evangelisa- 
tion— it  was  a  mere  nothing,  even  for  the  ports  I  And  away 
from  those  few,  coast-board  cities,  scarcely  a  voice  was 
raised  to  tell  of  Redeeming  Love  to  the  women  and  children 
of  half  the  heathen  world.  "  The  Lord  giveth  the  word  : 
the  women  that  publish  the  tidings  are  a  great  host."  ^  To 
add  to  their  number  in  China  and  facilitate  their  all-import- 
ant work  was  one  of  Mr.  Taylor's  chief  objects  in  the  forma- 
tion of  the  Inland  Mission,  and  he  was  prepared  to  let 
devoted  women  make  the  sacrifices  necessary  and  to  take 
upon  himself  the  responsibility  of  helping  them  in  every 
way  possible. 

For  their  protection  as  well  as  to  lessen  difficulties  he 
considered  the  wearing  of  native  dress  essential,  with  a 
large  measure  of  conformity  to  Chinese  manners  and 
customs. 

"  In  my  judgment,"  he  v^Tote  on  this  subject,  "  the  adoption 
of  the  Chinese  costume  would  be  desirable  even  were  we  residing 
in  the  treaty  ports  ;  but  for  work  in  the  interior  such  as  we  con- 
template I  am  satisfied  that  it  is  an  absolute  pre-requisite.  No 
foreign  missionary  to  the  best  of  my  knowledge  ever  has,  in 
European  costume,  carried  on  such  a  work  ;  and  my  strong  con- 
viction is  that,  at  present,  no  foreign  missionary  could  do  so. 
He  may  travel  under  the  protection  of  his  passport  almost  any- 
where ;  but  quietly  to  settle  among  the  people,  obtaining  free 
and  familiar  communication  with  them,  conciliating  their  pre- 
judices, winning  their  esteem  and  confidence,  and  so  living  as  to 
be  an  example  to  them  of  what  Chinese  Christians  should  be, 
requires  the  adoption  not  merely  of  their  costume  but  of  their 
habits  also  to  a  very  considerable  extent.  Merely  to  put  on  their 
dress,  and  act  regardless  of  their  thoughts  and  feehngs,  is  to  make 
a  burlesque  of  the  whole  matter,  and  will  probably  lead  the  person 
so  adopting  it  to  conclude,  before  long,  that  it  is  of  very  little 
value  to  him.  But  I  have  never  heard  of  any  one,  after  a  bona 
fide  attempt  to  become  Chinese  to  the  Chinese  that  he  might  gain 
the  Chinese,  who  either  regretted  the  course  taken  or  wished  to 
abandon  it." 

1  Psalm  Ixviii.  ii,  R.V. 


90  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

The  grounds  upon  which  this  sacrifice  was  advocated 
were  so  important  that  we  venture  to  give  further  extracts.^ 

Had  our  Lord  appeared  on  earth  as  an  angel  of  light,  He 
would  doubtless  have  inspired  far  more  awe  and  reverence,  and 
would  have  gathered  even  larger  multitudes  to  attend  His  ministry. 
But  to  save  man  He  became  man,  not  merely  Hke  man.  And 
further,  the  immediate  objects  of  His  personal  ministry  being 
"  under  the  law  "  ("  the  lost  sheep  of  the  house  of  Israel  ")  He 
likev/ise  was  bom  "  under  the  law,"  not  a  mere  proselyte  but  a 
real  Jew  ;  "for  it  became  Him  in  all  things  to  be  made  Hke  unto 
His  brethren."  In  language,  in  appearance,  in  everything  not 
sinful  He  made  Himself  one  with  those  He  sought  to  benefit. 
Had  He  been  bom  a  noble  Roman  rather  than  a  Jew,  He  would 
perhaps,  if  less  loved,  have  commanded  more  of  a  certain  kind 
of  respect,  and  would  assuredly  have  been  spared  much  of  the 
indignity  He  suffered.  This,  however,  was  not  His  aim  :  He 
"  emptied  Himself."  Surely  no  follower  of  the  meek  and  lowly 
Jesus  wiU  be  likely  to  conclude  that  it  is  "  beneath  the  dignity 
of  a  Christian  missionary  "  to  seek  identification  with  this  great 
though  benighted  people,  in  the  hope  that  he  may  see  them 
washed,  sanctified,  justified,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  and 
by  the  Spirit  of  our  God.  .  .  . 

I  am  not  alone  in  the  opinion  that  the  foreign  dress  and 
carriage  of  missionaries  (to  a  certain  extent  affected  by  some  of 
their  pupils  and  conveits),  the  foreign  appearance  of  chapels, 
and  indeed  the  foreign  air  imparted  to  everything  connected  with 
their  work  has  seriously  hindered  the  rapid  dissemination  of  the 
Tmth  among  the  Chinese.  And  why  should  such  a  foreign 
aspect  be  given  to  Christianity  ?  The  Word  of  God  does  not 
require  it ;  nor,  I  conceive,  could  sound  reason  justify  it.  It  is 
not  the  denationalisation  but  the  Christianisation  of  this  people 
that  we  seek.  We  wish  to  see  Chinese  Christians  raised  up — men 
and  women  truly  Christian,  but  withal  tmly  Chinese  in  every 
right  sense  of  the  word.  We  wish  to  see  churches  of  such  be- 
hevers  presided  over  by  pastors  and  ofiicers  of  their  own  country- 
men, worshipping  God  in  the  land  of  their  fathers,  in  their  own 
tongue,  and  in  edifices  of  a  thoroughly  native  style  of  architecture. 
"  It  is  enough  that  the  disciple  be  as  His  Master."  If  we  really 
wish  to  see  the  Chinese  such  as  we  have  described,  let  us  as  far 
as  possible  set  before  them  a  true  example.  Let  us  in  everything 
not  sinful  become  Chinese,  that  we  may  by  aU  means  "  save 

1  The  letter,  which  was  a  long  one,  was  written  to  help  Mr.  Berger 
in  putting  the  matter  before  young  people  at  home  who  were  candidates 
(or  the  Mission. 


TO  SEARCH  OUT  A  RESTING-PLACE  91 

some."  Let  us  adopt  their  dress,  acquire  their  language,  seek  to 
conform  to  their  habits  and  approximate  to  their  diet  as  far  ai: 
health  and  constitution  will  allow.  Let  us  live  in  their  houses, 
making  no  unnecessary  alteration  in  external  form,  and  only  so 
far  modifying  their  internal  arrangements  as  health  and  efficiency 
for  work  absolutely  require. 

This  cannot  but  involve,  of  course,  a  certain  measure  of  in- 
convenience, such  as  the  sacrifice  of  some  accustomed  articles  of 
diet,  etc.     But  will  any  one  reflecting  on  what  He  gave  up  Who 
left  heaven's  throne  to  be  cradled  in  a  manger  ;    Who,  having  \ 
filled  all  things  and  wielded  omnipotence,  became  a  feeble  infant  j 
wrapped  in  swaddling  clothes ;  Who  from  being  the  loved  one  of  j 
the  Father — never  misjudged,  never  unappreciated,  and  receiving  ■ 
the  ceaseless  adoration  of  all  the  hierarchies  of  heaven — became  a 
despised  Nazarene,  misunderstood  by  His  most  faithful  followers, 
neglected  and  rejected  by  men  who  owed  Him  their  very  being 
and  whose  salvation  He  had  come  to  seek,  and  finally,  mocked, 
spit  upon,  crucified  and  slain  with  thieves  and  outlaws,  will  any 
follower  of  Christ,  reflecting  on  these  things,  hesitate  to  make 
the  trifling  sacrifice  indicated  above  ?  ^ 

We  give  you  credit,  dear  friends,  for  being  prepared  to  give   \ 
up  not  these  httle  things  only,  but  a  thousand  times  more  for    ! 
Christ's  sake.  .  .  .  Let  there  be  no  reservation.     Give  yourself    j 
up  wholly  and  fully  to  Him  Whose  you  are  and  Whom  you  wish    ' 
to  serve  in  this  work,  and  there  can  be  no  disappointment.     But   j 
once  let  the  question  arise,  "Are  we  called  to  give  up  this  or  that  ? "  / 
once  admit  the  thought,  "  I  did  not  expect  such  and  such  in-  / 
convenience  or  privation,"  and  your  service  will  cease  to  be  that/ 
free  and  happy  one  which  is  most  conducive  to  efficiency  and 
success.     "  God  loveth  a  cheerful  giver." 

Mr.  Taylor's  companions  of  the  Lammermuir  party 
being  one  with  him  in  these  convictions,  the  change  into 
native  dress  was  effected  without  delay.  They  did  not 
remain  long  enough  in  Shanghai  to  complete  the  ladies'  out- 
fits, but  the  young  men  submitted  to  the  somewhat  trying 
process  of  shaving  the  front  part  of  the  head  and  donning 
the  queue  and  loose-fitting  garb  of  the  coimtry,  Mr.  Taylor 
doing  the  same.  Mrs.  Taylor  also  appeared  in  Chinese 
costume  at  Mr.  Gamble's  table.  To  her  it  meant  no  little 
sacrifice.  She  had  not  worn  it  during  her  previous  residence 
in  China,  and  experience  enabled  her  to  realise  something  of 
the  restrictions  it  must  involve. 


92  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

"  Things  which  are  tolerated  in  us  as  foreigners,  wearing 
foreign  dress,"  she  wrote  to  Mrs.  Berger,  "  could  not  be  allowed 
for  a  moment  in  native  ladies.  I  do  not  at  all  mean  to  imply  a 
doubt  as  to  the  desirability  of  the  change;  but  the  nearer  we 
come  to  the  Chinese  in  outward  appearance,  the  more  severely 
v/ill  any  breach  of  propriety  according  to  their  standards  be 
criticised.  Henceforth  I  must  never  be  guilty,  for  example,  of 
taking  my  husband's  arm  out  of  doors  I  And  in  fifty  or  a  hundred 
other  ways  we  may,  without  great  watchfulness,  shock  the 
Chinese  by  what  would  seem  to  them  grossly  immodest  and  un- 
feminine  conduct.  .  .  .  Pray  much  for  us  in  respect  to  this 
matter." 

To  avoid  giving  unnecessary  offence  in  Shanghai,  the 
step  was  not  taken  until  after  the  meeting  in  which,  at  Mr. 
Gamble's  invitation,  a  number  of  missionaries  and  others 
came  together  to  commend  the  new  enterprise  to  the  guid- 
ance and  blessing  of  God.  Although  Mr.  Taylor  and  his 
fellow-workers  were  regarded  none  too  cordially  in  certain 
quarters,  they  could  not  but  feel  on  this  occasion  a  real 
brotherliness  of  sympathy  which  was  most  encouraging.^ 
And  Mr.  Gamble's  interest  had  deepened  into  the  warmest 
friendship.  Indeed  he  was  more  than  reluctant  to  part  from 
his  adopted  family,  many  though  their  claims  had  been  upon 
his  time  and  resources.  Accompanying  them  to  the  river  on 
Saturday  evening,  the  20th  of  October,  he  hardly  knew  how 
to  say  good-bye.  The  junks  on  v/hich  they  were  to  travel 
were  moored  out  in  the  stream,  and  all  the  party  had  left 
the  jetty  save  Mr.  Taylor  and  Rudland.  Busy  vidth  helpful 
services  to  the  last,  Mr.  Gamble  quietly  laid  a  package  on 
the  seat  of  the  sampan,  stepped  ashore,  and  was  gone  amid 
the  shadows.  It  was  the  roll  of  dollars  he  had  reluctantly 
accepted  in  payment  for  their  board,  and  on  a  slip  of  paper 
he  had  written,  "  For  the  good  of  the  Mission." 

^  It  is  interesting  to  recall  the  names  of  those  who  in  1866  formed 
the  stafif  of  the  two  British  and  four  American  societies  at  work  in 
Shanghai :  they  were  the  Revs.  W.  Muirhead  and  G.  Owen  (L.M.S.)  ;  Mr. 
Alex.  Wylie  (B.  &  F,  Bible  Society)  ;  the  Revs.  E.  H.  Thomson  (Protes. 
Epis.)  ;  M.  T.  Yates  (Southern  Baptist)  ;  W.  G.  Cunnyngham,  J.  W.  Lam- 
buth,  J.  J.  Allen,  and  M.  L.  Wood  (Meth.  Epis.,  South)  ;  J.  M.  Farnham, 
J.  WTierry  (Presby.  Board),  and  Mr.  W.  Gamble  of  the  Presby.  Press. 
The  kindness  of  Mr.  Farnham  and  Mr.  Gamble  estabhshed  a  special  sym- 
pathy between  their  mission  and  the  C.I.M.  which  continues  to  this  day. 


TO  SEARCH  OUT  A  RESTING-PLACE  93 

It  was  "  the  fairest  night  imaginable,"  and  dropping 
down-stream  in  the  moonUght  the  travellers  were  soon 
alongside  the  dear  old  Lammermuir.^  The  sailors  saw  them 
coming  and  were  all  on  deck  to  meet  them.  In  the  forecastle 
a  last,  brief  service  was  held.  "  Yes,  we  part,  but  not  for 
ever,"  was  sung  on  the  weU-remembered  deck.  Then  with 
a  last  look  at  their  cabins,  hallowed  by  sacred  memories, 
and  with  many  a  farewell,  the  missionaries  left  for  their 
boats.  "  Whither,  pilgrims,  are  you  going  ?  "  was  struck 
up  by  the  ship's  company. 

"  But  that  tells  nothing  apart  from  the  singing,"  Miss  Blatch- 
ley  wrote,  "  of  all  the  associations  brought  to  mind  that  made 
many  of  the  voices  unsteady.  As  we  pushed  off,  they  stood  along 
the  bulwarks  and,  raising  their  caps,  gave  us  three  hearty  English 
cheers.  In  the  moonlight  and  stillness  we  glided  round  the 
stem — sailors  and  midshipmen  following  on  to  the  poop,  where 
they  repeated  the  cheers  and  stood  looking  after  us  till  we  passed 
out  of  sight."  2 

Four  weeks  later  it  was  a  company  thoroughly  Chinese 
as  to  outward  appearances  that  drew  near  the  famous  city 
of  Hang-chow.  The  gipsy-life  so  romantic  at  first  had 
become  wearisome  enough  in  their  slow -going  boats. 
Happily  the  days  were  fine  with  the  crisp  freshness  of  autumn, 
but  the  nights  were  bitterly  cold,  and  it  had  become  an 
urgent  matter  to  find  more  adequate  shelter.  Nowhere  on 
the  way,  however,  had  it  been  possible  to  rent  premises. 
Again  and  again,  just  when  it  seemed  they  had  succeeded, 

i  To  the  sorrow  of  the  missionary  party,  who  had  continued  to  hold 
meetings  on  board,  some  of  the  ciew  had  fallen  back  into  old  habits  amid 
the  temptations  of  port  life.  "  Their  deep  contrition,  however,"  Mr. 
Taylor  was  able  to  write,  "  encourage  us  to  hope  that  they  are  really 
children  of  God  "  ;  and  others,  both  among  the  of&cers  and  men,  gave 
only  cause  for  rejoicing. 

■  One  link  with  the  Lammermuir  still  remained,  for  Mr.  Brunton, 
formerly  the  dread  of  the  crew,  was  with  the  young  men  on  their  boat! 
"  He  came  a  little  way  up-country  with  us,"  continued  Miss  Blatchley; 
"  and  on  Sunday,  in  the  beautiful  sunset  hght,  Mr.  Taylor  baptized  him 
in  the  river." 

Hearing  from  this  officer,  doubtless,  of  their  being  without  much 
in  the  way  of  European  comforts,  Captain  Bell  sent  after  them — before 
they  could  finally  get  away — two  pots  of  butter,  a  barrel  of  treacle,  a 
cooked  ham,  a  joint  of  beef,  and  a  cheese  I  To  him  the  party  had  given 
a  beautiful  Bible  and  a  travelling  rug. 


94  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

negotiations  had  fallen  through,  and  from  place  to  place 
they  had  been  obliged  to  move  on,  an  unbroken  party. 

Bravely  they  had  kept  up  their  studies  and  used  every 
opportunity,  with  the  help  of  their  Chinese  companions, 
for  making  known  the  Way  of  Life.  But  crowded  quarters, 
repeated  disappointments,  and  growing  concern  with  regard 
to  the  reception  that  might  be  expected  at  their  destination 
made  the  journey  a  trying  one,  bringing  out  both  the  strength 
and  weakness  of  individual  characters.  All  were  suffering 
from  the  cold  ;  several,  including  the  children,  were  more 
or  less  ill ;  and  the  Ningpo  servants  began  to  talk  about 
going  hojne  for  the  winter.  The  boat-people,  needless  to 
say,  were  full  of  complaints.  Far  from  their  accustomed 
waters,  in  a  district  dangerously  unsettled  through  the 
Rebellion,  they  too  were  feeling  the  stress  of  anxiety,  and 
were  clamouring  to  be  set  free  to  return  to  Shanghai.  Alto- 
gether the  situation  was  a  critical  one,  and  prayer  was  the 
only  resource  of  much-tried  hearts. 

**  We  were  of  ourselves  just  helpless,"  wrote  one  of  the  party, 
"  but  we  knew  that  we  were  being  led  by  the  Hand  that  opens 
and  no  man  shuts ;  the  Hand  that  had  prepared  for  us  at 
Shanghai  a  hospitable  roof  and  storage  for  our  goods;  so  we 
prayed  and  moved  forward,  nothing  doubting." 

It  was  upon  Mr.  Taylor  the  burden  pressed  most  heavily, 
as  he  left  the  boats  in  an  unfrequented  place  near  the  city 
and  set  out  with  the  evangelist  to  seek  the  home  it  was  so 
necessary  to  find.  When  he  was  gone  and  they  were  left 
in  a  good  deal  of  suspense,  Mrs.  Taylor  gathered  all  the 
party  for  united  prayer.  The  circumstances  affected  her 
in  quite  a  special  way,  for  before  long  she  was  to  lay  in 
Uttle  Grade's  arms  the  baby-sister  for  whom  the  child  was 
daily  asking  in  her  prayers.  Yet  that  mother-heart,  so 
tender  in  its  solicitude,  was  perfectly  at  rest.  "  Who  will 
bring  me  into  the  strong  city  ?  "  had  come  in  her  Psalm  for 
that  morning,  "  Who  will  lead  me  into  Edom  ?  Wilt  not 
Thou,  O  God  ?  .  .  .  Give  us  help  from  trouble,  for  vain  is 
the  help  of  man.  Through  God  we  shall  do  valiantly." 
Quietly  she  read  the  passage  now,   and  none  who  were 


TO  SEARCH  OUT  A  RESTING-PLACE  95 

present  could  ever  forget  the  prayer  that  followed.  It 
changed  an  hour  of  painful  suspense  into  one  of  soul-out- 
pouring, preparing  the  young  missionaries  as  nothing  else 
could  have  done  for  whatever  news  Mr.  Taylor  might  bring. 

And  very  soon  he  came.  Before  they  could  have 
expected  it  his  voice  was  heard  near  the  boats — and  with 
radiant  face  he  was  among  them.  Yes,  all  was  well.  The 
Lord  had  indeed  gone  before.  Just  as  in  Shanghai,  a  home 
was  ready,  waiting  ! 

Knowing  that  a  friend  of  Ningpo  days,  belonging  to  the 
same  Mission  as  Mr.  Gamble,  had  recently  moved  to  Hang- 
chow,  Mr.  Taylor  called  on  him  first  of  all  to  acquaint  him 
with  their  arrival. 

"  We  have  been  expecting  you,"  was  Mr.  Green's  kindly 
welcome,  "  and  I  have  a  message  you  may  be  glad  to 
receive." 

A  young  American  missionary,  it  appeared,  had  just  left 
the  city  to  bring  his  wife  and  child  from  Ningpo  to  the  home 
he  had  prepared  for  them.  His  house,  furnished  and  ready, 
would  be  empty  for  a  week  at  least,  and  he  had  bethought 
him  of  Mr.  Taylor's  party. 

"  Tell  them,"  he  said  to  Mr.  Green,  "to  go  straight  to 
my  place  when  they  come.  It  is  at  their  disposal  for  the 
time  being." 

The  house  was  on  a  quiet  street  and  could  be  reached 
in  boats  without  observation.  Mr.  Kreyer  was  not  expected 
back  for  several  days,  and  all  they  had  to  do  was  to  take 
possession.  Well  can  one  imagine  the  praise  meeting  that 
was  held  then  and  there,  before  the  boats  moved  on  ! 

"  Who  will  bring  me  into  the  strong  city  ?  Who  will 
lead  me  into  Edom  ?     Wilt  not  Thou,  O  God  ?  " 


CHAPTER  VIII 

O  THAT  THOU   WOULDEST   BLESS   ME   INDEED 
1866-1867.     Aet.  34-35. 

It  was  no  time  for  resting  on  their  oars,  however.  Under 
cover  of  darkness  the  whole  party  had  entered  Hang-chow 
without  causing  any  excitement,  and  had  taken  up  their 
abode  in  Mr.  Kreyer's  premises.  But  the  latter  was  return- 
ing shortly,  and  the  question  of  a  home  of  their  own  was 
urgent.  Where  in  the  great  city,  still  suffering  from  the 
ravages  of  the  Tai-ping  Rebellion,  they  were  to  find  quarters 
large  enough  for  themselves  and  the  work  they  hoped  to  do 
was  indeed  a  problem.  But  in  this  again  the  Lord  had  gone 
before  them  "  to  search  out  a  resting-place." 

Nothing  could  have  been  more  suitable,  as  Mr.  Taylor 
soon  discovered,  than  the  very  first  house  to  which  he  was 
directed.  Large  and  well  built,  it  had  been  a  Mandarin's 
residence,  but  was  sadly  dilapidated  now,  and  a  regular 
rabbit-warren  occupied  by  a  number  of  families.  The  situa- 
tion was  excellent,  in  a  quiet  corner,  near  the  city  wall  and 
busy  streets.  The  upper  storey  offered  sleeping  accommoda- 
tion for  the  whole  party,  a  second  staircase  making  it 
possible  to  shut  off  a  separate  wing  for  the  young  men. 
This  was  so  manifest  an  advantage  that  it  decided  Mr. 
Taylor  to  obtain  the  premises  if  possible — the  downstairs' 
rooms  being  adaptable  for  guest-halls,  chapel  and  dispensary, 
printing-press,  dining-room,  servants'  quarters,  etc. 

Almost  with  fear  and  trembling,  after  hearing  the  rent 
demanded,  he  made  an  offer  which  was  not  accepted.  The 
landlord,  perceiving  that  the  matter  was  urgent,  hoped  by 


O  THAT  THOU  WOULDEST  BLESS  ME  INDEED     97 

prolonged  negotiations  to  drive  a  better  bargain.  Sunday, 
however,  intervened — putting  a  stop  as  far  as  the  mission- 
aries were  concerned  to  business  transactions — and  to  the 
surprise  of  the  landlord  he  saw  no  more  of  his  would-be 
tenants.  But  though  they  had  nothing  to  say  to  him 
apparently,  they  had  much  to  lay  before  the  Lord.  The 
day  was  given  to  prayer,  and  when  on  Monday  morning  his 
decision  was  asked  it  was  much  more  favourable. 

"  They  must  have  other  houses  in  view,"  he  said  to  him- 
self.    "  If  I  am  not  careful  I  shall  lose  good  tenants." 

With  surprising  alacrity,  after  this,  he  came  to  terms, 
so  that  by  Tuesday  evening  the  necessary  documents  were 
signed  and  sealed.  Some  of  the  occupants  had  already 
moved  out  to  liberate  the  upper  storey.  Five  families 
remained,  but  there  was  plenty  of  room,  the  landlord  urged, 
for  Mr.  Taylor's  household.  Let  them  only  move  in,  and 
before  long  they  should  have  the  entire  premises.  On 
Wednesday  morning  accordingly,  November  28 — the  very 
day  Mr.  Kreyer  was  to  return — so  early  that  the  sleeping 
city  knew  nothing  of  what  was  happening,  the  Lammermuir 
party  made  their  way  through  the  silent  streets  and  entered 
upon  a  home  of  their  own  after  six  months  of  travelling 
and  unsettlement. 

"  Here  then  for  the  present,"  wrote  Miss  Blatchley,  "  Mr. 
Taylor  intends  us  to  remain  as  quietly  and  as  little  seen  as 
possible,  the  study  of  the  language  affording  sufficient  occupation. 
By  the  time  any  of  us  are  ready  for  work  among  the  people  it 
will  be  known  that  a  number  of  foreigners  are  living  in  the  city, 
and  that  no  disturbance  or  mischief  has  resulted,  and  we  shall 
gain  access  to  them,  D.V.,  with  less  difficulty,  exciting  less  sus- 
picion than  could  otherwise  have  been  the  case.  We  trust  also 
to  find  an  advantage  from  coming  direct  to  the  capital  of  the 
province,  as  a  footing  gained  here  will  pave  our  way,  to  some 
extent,  in  less  important  places."  ^ 

For  already  the  thought  of  extension  was  occup3dng 
their  minds.  So  great,  indeed,  was  Mr.  Taylor's  desire  to 
spread  the  light,  that  the  very  first  Sunday  in  their  Hang- 

1  A  letter  to  the  Hon.  Miss  Waldegrave,  one  of  many  written  by  Miss 
Blatchley  as  Mr.  Taylor's  secretary. 


98  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

chow  home  found  him  not  there  at  all  but  away  in  the  neigh- 
bouring city  of  Siao-shan.  Messrs.  Meadows  and  Crombie 
had  come  over  from  Ningpo  to  see  if  they  could  be  of  service, 
and  Mr.  Taylor  was  glad  to  avail  himself  of  their  help  in  this 
evangelistic  effort.  Two  days  spent  in  the  neighbouring 
city,  during  which  they  had  excellent  opportunities  for 
preaching  the  Gospel,  so  convinced  them  of  its  importance 
as  a  centre  for  missionary  work  that  they  were  thankful  to 
be  enabled  to  rent  a  small  house  before  leaving,  with  a  view 
to  settling  out  some  of  the  new  arrivals  as  soon  as  possible. 

"  Had  not  the  Lord  specially  helped  us,  in  answer  to  special 
prayer,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  on  his  return,  "  we  should  have  failed 
both  in  Hang-chow  and  in  Siao-shan,  as  we  had  failed  in  other 
places  previously." 

His  heart  beat  high  with  hope,  and  it  is  interesting  to 
notice  that  he  had  not  been  in  Hang-chow  three  weeks  before 
he  was  informing  Mr.  Berger  about  postal  and  banking  com- 
munication with  the  inland  provinces. 

"  You  will  be  glad  to  learn,"  he  wrote  before  the  middle  of 
December,  "  that  facilities  for  sending  letters  by  native  post  and 
transmitting  money  through  native  banks  to  various  points  in 
the  interior  are  very  good.  I  do  not  think  there  will  be  any 
difficulty  in  remitting  money  to  any  province  in  the  empire  which 
will  not  be  easily  overcome.  In  the  same  way  letters  from  the 
most  distant  places  can  be  sent  to  the  ports.  Such  communica- 
tion is  slow  and  may  prove  rather  expensive,  but  is  tolerably  sure. 
Thus  we  see  the  way  opening  before  us  for  work  in  the  interior." 

Meanwhile  there  was  no  lack  of  work  immediately  around 
him.  Happily  a  spell  of  milder  weather  favoured  the  process 
of  getting  their  premises  somewhat  into  order.  To  the  un- 
initiated, the  latter  looked  more  like  a  collection  of  out- 
houses and  barns,  in  deplorable  condition,  than  the  hand- 
some residence  Mr.  Taylor  assured  them  it  once  had  been. 
In  any  case,  the  work  of  setthng-in  involved  scraping  thick 
dirt  from  the  floors  of  the  upper  rooms — and  they  were 
clean  compared  with  the  downstairs  quarters. 

"It  is  pretty  cold  weather,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  on  returning 
from   Siao-shan    (Dec.    4),    "to  be   living  in  a  house  without 


O  THAT  THOU  WOULDEST  BLESS  ME  INDEED 


99 


any  ceilings  and  with  very  few  walls  and  windows.  There  is  a 
deficiency  in  the  wall  of  my  own  bedroom  six  feet  by  nine,  closed 
in  with  a  sheet,  so  that  ventilation  is  decidedly  free.  But  we 
heed  these  things  very  little.  Around  us  are  poor  dark  heathen — 
large  cities  without  any  missionary  ,  populous  towns  without 
any  missionary  ;  villages  without  number,  all  destitute  of  the 
means  of  grace.  I  do  not  envy  the  state  of  mind  that  would 
forget  these,  or  leave  them  to  perish,  for  fear  of  a  httle  discomfort. 
May  God  make  us  faithful  to  Him  and  to  our  work." 

Well  was  it  that  the  party  were  in  Chinese  dress,  for  they 
lived  at  close  quarters  for  a  month  or  more  with  the  famihes 
who  shared  their  rambling  abode.  Although  the  house 
took  on  by  degrees  a  measure  of  cleanliness,  it  had  little 
acquaintance  with  "  foreign  "  things  and  ways  that  could 
prove  disquieting.  Knives  and  forks,  together  with  English 
crockery  and  cooking,  had  been  left  behind  in  Shanghai,  and 
the  simplest  of  Chinese  furniture  was  found  to  meet  all 
requirements.  There  were  the  regulation  chairs  and  tables 
in  the  guest-hall,  for  the  proper  reception  of  visitors,  but 
for  the  rest — boards  and  trestles,  wooden  benches,  and  beds 
consisting  of  a  wooden  frame  strung  with  cocoanut  fibres 
sufficed.  At  meal-times  a  Chinese  company,  to  all  appear- 
ances, gathered  round  the  table  minus  a  cloth,  set  with 
basins  and  chopsticks,  and  the  food  served  was  equally 
familiar  to  the  neighbours  who  were  looking  on.  Perhaps 
it  was  this  that  disarmed  prejudice  and  made  a  way  for 
friendly  intercourse.     There  was  nothing  to  be  afraid  of. 

"  These  people  are  like  ourselves,"  was  the  conclusion 
soon  come  to.  "  They  eat  our  rice  and  wear  our  dress,  and 
their  words  we  understand." 

So  from  the  first  one  and  another  began  to  drop  in  to 
Chinese  prayers  attracted  by  the  singing,  and  before  the 
new  arrivals  had  been  a  week  in  the  house  one  woman  was 
openly  interested  in  the  Gospel.  Miss  Faulding,  who  had 
made  good  progress  with  the  language,  was  welcomed  as  a 
daily  visitor  in  her  room  and  among  the  other  tenants,  and 
the  reports  that  went  out  proved  reassuring  to  relatives  and 
friends. 

"  We  have  been  getting  the  house  a  Httle  more  comfortable," 
wrote   this   bright   member  of  the  party   (Dec.   12),   "  though 


100         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

there  is  plenty  still  to  be  done.  Mr.  Taylor  and  the  young  men 
have  contrived  paper  ceilings  fixed  on  wooden  frames,  which  keep 
out  some  of  the  cold  air  ;  for  the  upstairs  rooms  have  roofs  such 
as  you  find  in  chapels  at  home.  They  also  have  papered  some  of 
the  walls  or  wooden  partitions  between  the  rooms.  Of  course 
we  are  as  yet  in  confusion,  but  we  are  getting  on  and  I  hope  shall 
be  settled  some  day. 

"  The  lodgers  are  to  leave  next  week ;  they  occupy  principally 
the  ground  floor.  ...  I  am  so  glad  for  them  to  have  been  here, 
for  many  come  to  Chinese  prayers  and  hsten  attentively.  We 
could  not  have  visited  out  of  doors  just  yet  .  .  .  but  I  read  and 
talk  with  these  women  every  day,  and  they  seem  to  like  it.  One 
woman  I  have  great  hope  of.  She  has  given  up  burning  incense, 
and  says  that  since  we  came  she  has  begun  to  pray  to  God.  They 
are  all  employed  in  making  imitation  money  out  of  silver  paper, 
to  be  burnt  for  the  use  of  dead  relatives — a  great  trade  here. 
While  I  am  reading  to  them,  they  often  take  out  their  pipes  and 
have  a  few  whiffs,  almost  choking  me  with  smoke.  Of  course  I 
don't  say  anything,  for  every  woman  seems  to  smoke.  They  ask 
plenty  of  questions  about  ourselves,  and  sometimes  such  things 
as,  '  Where  must  we  go  to  worship  God  ?  '  .  .  .  Yesterday  we 
had  a  congregation  of  ten  neighbours  gathered  in  by  the  woman 
who  is  so  interested,  besides  our  lodgers  and  servants." 

Thus  the  good  work  began,  and  before  Christmas  we  read 
of  attentive  audiences  of  fifty  or  sixty  at  the  Sunday  ser- 
vices. 

"  You  would  be  amused  at  many  things  we  see,"  Miss  Fauld- 
ing  wrote  again  in  February  :  "a  man  nursing  an  immense  dog 
all  through  the  service  ;  a  woman  mending  a  large  man's  shoe  ; 
and  another,  close  by  me,  giving  me  a  lesson  in  the  approved 
style  of  dressing  children's  hair,  using  her  thin  fingers  as  a  comb. 
She  evidently  thought  she  could  do  two  things  at  a  time,  for  she 
certainly  hstened  to  what  was  being  said." 

With  what  interest  the  young  missionaries  watched 
these  developments,  and  how  fervently  in  their  noon  prayer 
meetings  they  sought  the  Hfe-giving  touch  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  for  one  and  another  who  seemed  impressed !  Among 
these  a  soldier,  for  example,  reading  for  the  first  time  a 
Gospel  and  a  copy  of  the  book  of  Acts,  gave  cause  for  en- 
couragement. 

"  What  a  difference  there  was/*  he  remarked,  "between 


O  THAT  THOU  WOULDEST  BLESS  ME  INDEED   loi 

Judas  and  Paul !  the  one  a  disciple  who  betrayed  his  Master  ; 
the  other  a  persecutor  who  became  the  most  devoted  of  His 
followers." 

A  Buddhist  priest,  too,  hearing  Mr.  Taylor  preach  at  a 
street-corner,  rejoiced  the  evangelist,  Tsiu,  by  coming  daily 
with  intelligent  questions.  A  third,  who  dropped  in  out  of 
curiosity  and  was  welcomed  by  one  of  the  young  men,  was 
so  touched  by  the  kindly  spirit  behind  the  poor  attempt  at 
Chinese  that  he  came  again,  and  soon  joined  the  little  group 
who  every  morning  were  to  be  found  in  the  guest-hall,  read- 
ing the  Scriptures. 

"  I  was  going  into  the  city  the  other  day,**  wrote  Mr.  Sell  as 
early  as  the  ist  of  January,  "  when  a  man  called  out :  '  I  am 
coming  to  worship  the  true  God  to-morrow,'  referring  to  our 
Sunday  services.  Thus,  you  see,  we  are  already  knowoi  and  our 
work  talked  about.'* 

As  the  house  began  to  take  on  a  more  habitable  appear- 
ance, two  texts  in  Chinese  found  a  place  on  the  walls  of  the 
dining-room  : 

"  /  must  work  the  works  of  Him  that  sent  me" 
"  Even  Christ  pleased  not  Himself,'* 

That  "  must  **  was  very  real  to  the  missionary  household. 
It  was  work,  real  earnest,  self-sacrificing  work,  that  filled 
the  busy  days,  crowding  chapel  and  guest-hall  with  friendly 
hearers. 

With  the  Chinese  New  Year,  early  in  February  (1867), 
came  golden  opportunities.  A  dispensary  had  by  that  time 
been  opened,  precursor  of  all  the  medical  work  for  which 
Hang-chow  has  become  famous.  With  much  else  upon  his 
hands,  it  was  not  easy  for  Mr.  Taylor  to  attend  to  scores  of 
patients  daily,  but  there  was  no  other  doctor  nearer  than 
Ningpo  or  Shanghai,  and  his  heart  went  out  to  the  people 
in  their  sufferings.  From  far  and  near  the  patients  came 
with  every  variety  of  complaint  both  of  body  and  soul  ; 
and  when  holiday-makers  were  added  at  the  New  Year 
season,  the  doctor  and  his  helpers  were  overwhelmed  with 
guests. 


102         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

"  How  I  should  have  Hked  some  of  our  home-friends  to  have 
been  with  us  to-day,"  Miss  Faulding  wrote  at  this  time.^  "  We 
have  had  such  good  services  (Sunday)  ;  at  least  two  hundred 
present,  sitting  as  quietly  as  an  EngHsh  audience,  and  having  the 
Truth  so  forcibly  put  before  them.  Many  this  afternoon  were 
shut  out  for  want  of  room.  I  think  we  shall  soon  have  to  enlarge 
our  borders.  One  woman  who  had  heard  of  us  from  her  neigh- 
bours came  three  miles  to  the  service.  Some  tell  us  that  they 
have  given  up  burning  incense  to  their  idols  ;  and  several,  both 
men  and  women,  say  they  believe,  and  are  asking  for  baptism. 
The  medical  side  of  the  work  is  invaluable.  I  cannot  tell  you 
what  a  thrill  of  joy  one  constantly  feels  at  the  sight  of  so  many 
heathen  hstening  to  the  Gospel.  .  .  .  Mr.  Taylor's  illustrations 
in  preaching  are  so  good  and  varied,  and  his  words  seem  to  come 
with  a  power  that  would  be  astonishing  did  one  not  know  how 
many  are  praying  that  God's  blessing  may  rest  upon  our 
work." 

"  Mr.  Taylor  has  over  two  hundred  patients  daily,"  she  con- 
tinued a  fortnight  later  (March  i6).  "  People  bring  their  wares 
and  stay  near  our  door,  in  the  hope  of  getting  more  custom  from 
the  numbers  that  gather  here  than  they  could  elsewhere.  Sedan- 
chairs  with  their  bearers  are  generally  waiting,  to  carry  those  who 
cannot  walk.  The  evangelist  spends  most  of  his  time  talking 
to  the  patients,  and  Mr.  Taylor  generally  gives  a  short  address. 
We  have  some  most  hopeful  inquirers." 

When  reinforcements  arrived  from  England  (February 
23),  the  first  sent  out  after  the  sailing  of  the  Lammermuir, 
Mr.  Taylor  was  too  busy  to  see  anything  of  them  until  some 
hours  later.  He  was  standing  on  a  table  at  the  time, 
preaching  to  a  crowd  of  patients  in  the  courtyard,  and  could 
only  call  out  a  hearty  welcome  as  the  party  entered,  escorted 
by  Mr.  Meadows.  The  new  arrivals  were  more  than  satisfied 
with  this  state  of  affairs,  however,  and  it  was  not  long  before 
John  McCarthy  was  at  Mr.  Taylor's  side,  soon  to  become 
his  principal  helper  in  the  medical  work.  Those  were  days 
in  which,  amid  external  hardships,  his  fellow-workers  had 
at  any  rate  the  privilege  of  close  and  constant  association 

1  To  her  mother's  care  it  was  due  that  a  complete  series  of  the  bright, 
girhsh  letters  have  been  preserved  that  give  so  natural  a  picture  of  daily 
life  at  Sin-kai-long  (Hang-chow)  from  the  first.  Miss  Faulding  was  only 
twenty-two  when  she  went  to  China,  and  her  parents,  who  were  old  friends 
of  Mr.  Taylor's,  did  much  to  maintain  a  prayerfvil  interest  in  the  Mission 
throughout  a  large  circle. 


O  THAT  THOU  WOULDEST  BLESS  ME  INDEED   103 

with  the  leader  who  embodied  to  so  remarkable  a  degree 
their  ideals  of  missionary  service.^ 

"  If  only  Mr.  Taylor  could  be  in  three  or  four  places  at  the 
same  time  it  would  be  a  decided  advantage,"  Miss  Paulding  con- 
tinued in  May.  "  He  is  wanting  to  visit  the  governing  cities  of 
this  province,  to  look  out  the  most  eligible  places  for  stations  : 
he  and  Mr.  Duncan  have  been  on  the  point  of  starting  several 
times.  Then  there  is  Ningpo  where  he  is  needed,  and  here  he  is 
overwhelmed  with  work.  He  wants  to  go  to  Shao-hing  too  (Mr. 
Stevenson's  stations)  that  he  may  give  further  help  with  the 
colloquial  dialect,  there  is  hardly  any  knowing  what  his  move- 
ments may  be  ;  yet  he  goes  on  so  quietly  and  calmly  always — 
just  leaning  upon  God  and  living  for  others — that  it  is  a  blessing 
merely  to  witness  his  life." 

All  this,  needless  to  say,  was  a  great  joy  to  Mr,  Berger 
and  the  friends  at  home.  That  within  six  months  of  their 
arrival  the  Lammermuir  party  should  not  only  be  settled 
in  the  interior,  but  that  they  should  be  cheered  with  so 
much  of  blessing  in  their  rapidly  growing  work,  was  a  won- 
derful answer  to  the  prayers  that  had  been  going  up  on  their 
behalf.  No  less  strenuous  than  their  own  was  the  life  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Berger  were  living  in  the  service  of  the  Mis^on. 
Already  advanced  in  years,  it  was  not  easy  for  them  to  turn 
their  quiet  home  into  a  Mission-centre,  using  as  offices  both 
dining-room  and  study  ;  to  encumber  the  billiard-room  with 
packing-cases  ;  to  receive  at  their  table  candidates  for  China 
and  friends  of  the  missionaries  ;  to  direct  wrappers,  and 
send  out  with  their  own  hands  the  Occasional  Paper ;  to 
attend  to  a  large  correspondence,  keep  accounts,  transmit 
money,  arrange  for  the  outgoing  of  new  workers,  help  with 
their  preparations,  fit  up  their  cabins,  see  them  off  from  any 
port  at  any  hour  of  the  day  or  night,  and  correspond  with 
those  already  on  the  field.  Yet  all  this  they  did  with  the 
loving  interest  of  a  father's  and  mother's  heart.  When  it 
became  necessary  they  went  further,  and  adapted  a  cottage 

^  "  I  think  of  him  as  I  ever  knew  him,"  wrote  Mr.  McCarthy  from  West- 
ern China  thirty-eight  years  later,  "  kind,  loving,  thoughtful  of  every  one 
but  himself,  a  blessing  wherever  he  went  and  a  strength  and  comfort  to  all 
with  whom  he  came  in  contact  ...  a  constant  exampJe  of  all  that  a 
missionary  ought  to  be  " 


104         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

on  their  grounds  for  the  young  men  candidates  and  another 
for  a  tutor  who  gave  secretarial  help. 

"  Mr.  Aveline  and  I  seldom  get  more  than  half  an  hour's 
exercise  a  day,  which  is  insufficient  for  health,"  Mr.  Berger  wrote 
in  February  1867.  "  Still  we  are  very  happy  and  rejoice  in  the 
work." 

How  he  could  find  time  amid  the  claims  of  business  as 
well  as  these  self-imposed  tasks  to  write  regularly  and  freely 
to  Mr.  Taylor  as  he  did  is  a  marvel.  He  seems  never  to 
have  missed  a  mail.  A  whole  volume  of  his  letters — thin 
foreign  paper  stitched  into  a  leather  binding — has  been 
preserved,  covering  a  period  of  about  two  years  from  the 
sailing  of  the  Lammermuir.  Reflecting  the  S5mipathy  and 
eager  interest  with  which  mail  after  mail  was  received,  this 
correspondence  deals  with  varied  questions,  from  important 
spiritual  principles  to  details  concerning  individual  workers. 
Penned  in  joy  and  sorrow,  as  the  tidings  from  China  were 
cheering  or  otherwise,  these  letters  breathe  a  faith  and  love 
that  were  unchanging,  and  form  a  veritable  storehouse  of 
wisdom,  helpfulness,  and  encouragement. 

For  all  was  not,  invariably,  as  Mr.  Berger  could  have 
wished,  and  there  were  hours  of  painful  exercise  of  mind 
at  Saint  Hill  as  well  as  in  Hang-chow.  Even  on  the  voyage 
out,  as  we  have  seen,  Mr.  Taylor  had  had  cause  to  regret  the 
spirit  of  certain  members  of  the  party,  and  as  time  went  on 
their  presence  became  an  increasing  difficulty.  Among  the 
letters,  most  of  which  brought  only  joy  to  the  home-circle, 
were  others  of  a  very  different  nature.  Complaints  and 
criticism  awakened  Mr.  Berger's  concern,  and  plainly 
revealed  an  attitude  on  the  part  of  some  that  threatened 
the  harmony  and  indeed  the  very  existence  of  the  Mission. 
It  was  only  one  or  two  at  first,  who  were  not  prepared  to  go 
all  lengths  in  wearing  native  dress  and  adapting  themselves 
to  their  surroundings  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of 
the  Mission.  But  their  disaffection  went  so  far  as  to  permit 
of  their  carrying  exaggerated  reports  to  outsiders,  one  of 
whom,  with  the  best  intentions,  took  them  up  seriously 
and  considered  them  sufficient  ground  for  strenuous  opposi- 


O  THAT  THOU  WOULDEST  BLESS  ME  INDEED   105 

tion  to  the  work.  So  prejudiced  was  he,  indeed,  by  what  he 
heard  against  Mr.  Taylor,  that  he  would  not  inquire  from 
him,  or  the  members  of  the  Mission  who  felt  with  him,  as 
to  the  charges  made.  Without  letting  them  even  know  of 
the  course  he  was  taking,  this  influential  missionary  wrote 
the  strongest  accusations  to  Mr.  Berger  and  others,  attack- 
mg  not  only  the  methods  of  the  C.I.M.  but  Mr.  Taylor's 
fitness  for  the  position  he  occupied. 

Having  heard  nothing  of  the  other  side,  these  painful 
letters  came  as  a  bolt  out  of  the  blue  to  the  friends  at  Saint 
Hill.  Never  suspecting  that  the  disaffected  members  of  the 
Mission  were  writing  home  in  a  bitter  spirit,  far  less  that  they 
had  stirred  up  a  comparative  stranger  to  do  so,  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Taylor  were  saying  nothing  to  the  disparagement  of  any 
fellow-worker.  They  were  seeking  by  prayer  and  patience 
to  remove  difficulties  and  conquer  opposition,  determined 
that  none  should  be  prejudiced  in  Mr.  Berger 's  eyes  by  any 
word  from  them,  as  long  as  there  was  the  least  hope  of 
improvement.  But  the  restraint  was  costing  them  dear  in 
more  ways  than  one.  As  early  as  February  (1867)  Mrs. 
Taylor  had  longed  to  pour  out  her  heart  to  her  beloved 
friend  Mrs.  Berger,  but  refrained  in  accordance  with  Mr.  ^ 
Taylor's  judgement. 

"  We  yesterday  received  your  loving  letters  written  on  the 
arrival  of  our  first  mail  from  China,"  she  wrote  on  the  second 
of  that  month.  "  They  are  so  sweet  to  us  ;  and  at  a  time  like 
this,  when  Satan  seems  desiring  to  have  us  that  he  may  sift  us  as 
wheat,  they  are  peculiarly  helpful. 

"  Oh,  if  you  were  here,  how  your  hearts  would  grieve  !  But  we 
must  not  be  surprised,  must  we,  at  troubles  and  offences  coming, 
and  severe  sorrow  too  ?  This  work  was  not  undertaken  mth  the 
expectation  that  it  would  be  free  from  difficulties.  And  our  God- 
Who  has  hitherto  helped  us  and  has  brought  us  thus  far.  Who  was 
with  us  in  the  typhoon  and  delivered  us  from  the  jaws  of  death, 
will  surely  be  with  our  Mission  in  the  storm,  delivering  it  too 
from  shipwreck. 

"  But  you  will  be  anxious  to  know  what  the  present  sorrow  is. 

In  my  last  letter  I  mentioned  that  Mr.  and  Mrs. had  gone 

to  Siao-shan,  and  that  Mr.  Williamson  was  there  to  help  make 
their  house  comfortable.  .  .  . 

*'  I  had  written  to  the  middle  of  the  last  sentence  when  my 


io6         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

dear  husband  desired  me  not  to  enter  into  details  by  this  mail. 
He  intends,  I  believe,  writing  to  Mr.  Berger  and  showing  the 
letter  to  the  persons  concerned,  so  as  to  give  an  opportunity 
for  explanation  on  the  other  side.  So,  though  it  does  seem  hard 
to  be  unable  to  tell  you  all  about  this  heavy  burden,  I  must 
obey  the  injunction,  '  Wives,  submit  yourselves.'  This  I  think  I 
may  mention — we  are  for  the  present  driven  out  of  Siao-shan." 

In  defiance  of  Mr.  Taylor's  wishes  the  missionaries  in 
question  had  gone  back  to  English  dress,  to  the  serious 
detriment  of  their  interests  in  that  inland  city.  The  Man- 
darin, who  had  left  them  in  peace  before,  then  determined 
upon  their  ejection.  With  his  soldiers  and  underlings  he 
had  come  upon  them  suddenly  on  the  evening  of  January  the 
28th,  and  had  ordered  them  to  leave  the  city  before  morning. 
To  put  them  in  fear  he  seized  the  evangelist,  Tsiu,  whom  at 
great  sacrifice  Mr.  Taylor  had  spared  from  Hang-chow,  and 
had  him  cruelly  beaten — six  hundred  stripes  on  the  back  with 
rods,  and  a  hundred  more  on  the  face  with  a  strip  of  leather. 
Sorely  bruised  and  shaken,  there  was  nothing  for  it  but  for 
Tsiu  to  make  his  way  as  best  he  could  to  the  capital ;  and 
he  was  quickly  followed  by  the  rest  of  the  party,  who  had 
to  be  accommodated  in  Hang-chow  while  the  matter  was 
being  adjusted. 

Those  were  months  of  extreme  trial  to  all  the  household 
at  Sin-kai-long.  Mr.  Taylor  was  overwhelmingly  busy  with 
medical  work  and  the  throngs  of  holiday-makers  brought  by 
the  New  Year  season.  In  a  reasonable  and  patient  spirit 
he  sought  to  draw  the  ejected  missionaries  into  all  that  was 
going  on,  and  to  conquer  causes  of  difficulty.  But  another 
influence  was  at  work  ;  and  instead  of  responding  to  his 
efforts  they  kept  apart,  openly  wearing  EngHsh  dress, 
refusing  to  come  to  the  meetings,  and  seeking  to  foment 
opposition  to  Mr.  Taylor's  authority  and  arrangements.  In 
this,  unhappily,  they  were  encouraged  by  the  afore-mentioned 
missionary,  who  was  just  leaving  for  furlough.  Believing 
their  reports  to  be  true,  he  felt  it  his  duty  not  only  to  write 
as  we  have  seen,  but  personally  to  discredit  the  new  methods 
of  the  C.I.M   among  its  supporters. 

When  one  remembers  the  circumstances,  it  is  easy  to  see 


O  THAT  THOU  WOULDEST  BLESS  ME  INDEED    107 

that  there  may  have  been,  in  the  practical  working  of  the 
Mission,  some  cause  for  complaint.  At  thirty-four  years  of 
age  there  still  remains  much  to  learn,  and  Mr.  Taylor's 
fellow- workers  were  all  younger  than  himself.  "  The  man 
who  never  makes  a  mistake,"  as  Mr.  Spurgeon  said,  "  never 
makes  anything  *' ;  and  they  were  striking  out,  it  will  be 
borne  in  mind,  on  a  new  and  confessedly  difficult  line  of 
things.  But  oh,  how  true  and  deep  the  longing  that  filled 
their  hearts  to  walk  before  God  and  be  well-pleasing  to  Him  ! 
If  only  the  older  missionary  could  have  known  all,  and  used 
his  experience  to  safeguard  where  he  apprehended  danger, 
how  different  the  result  might  have  been  !  As  it  was,  he 
came  very  near  accomplishing  his  avowed  object,  which  was 
nothing  less  than  to  put  a  stop  to  the  entire  work. 

Under  these  painful  circumstances,  Mr.  Berger  was 
wonderfully  helped,  although  his  letters  of  that  spring  and 
summer  show  the  distress  through  which  he  was  passing. 
Taking  the  course  of  true  friendship,  he  wrote  freely  to  Mr. 
Taylor,  sending  him  copies  of  the  correspondence. 

**  My  earnest  prayer  to  God,"  he  said  with  the  first  detailed 
accusations,  "  is  that  you  may  not  be  further  moved  by  the  letter 
than  the  Lord  would  have  you  be  ;  and  may  He  give  the  right 
spirit  and  the  wisdom  that  wiU  enable  us  both  to  do  that  which 
will  please  Him. 

"  The  difficulties  at  home  are  neither  few  nor  slight,  but  yours 
are  truly  mountainous.  .  .  .  You  need  our  every  sympathy  and 

prayer  ;  and  be  sure,  my  dear  Brother,  whatever  Mr. may 

have  penned,  you  hold  the  same  place  in  our  hearts  as  before. 
That  God  will  supply  you  and  me  with  increasing  wisdom  and 
ability  for  the  work  to  which  He  has  called  us,  we  need  neither 
fear  nor  doubt.  All  that  is  required  on  our  part  is  to  lay  aside 
everything  we  discover  to  be  either  faulty  or  erroneous,  and  con- 
stantly to  be  adding  to  our  stock  of  both  wisdom  and  love.  Oh 
yes  !  we  will  commit  this  matter  to  the  Lord  Who  knows  that  we 
did  our  best.  He  is  very  pitiful,  and  will  never  leave  nor  forsake 
us  in  this  our  time  of  trial." 

How  serious  the  trial  was  to  be,  and  how  long  continued, 
the  writer  could  not  realise  at  the  time. 

"  Were  we  not  sure,"  he  wrote  on  May  8,  "  that  God  has  given 
us  this  work  to  do,  I  fear  we  should  be  disposed  to  question 


io8         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

whether  it  was  right  to  continue  it ;  but  as  it  has  not  been  entered 
upon  without  counting  the  cost  and  feeling  sure  of  our  calling, 
we  are  enabled  to  cry  to  the  Lord  for  the  needed  help  in  this  time 
of  deep  trial :  and  if  we  feel  this,  you  must  feel  both  the  sorrows 
and  the  assurance  of  God's  caUing  in  tenfold  force. 

"  Let  us  then  strengthen  our  hands  in  God,  by  examining  our- 
selves solemnly  before  Him  to  ascertain  where  we  are  failing,  or 
have  failed,  when  we  shall  be  better  fitted  to  determine  where 
those  linked  with  us  have  also  failed.  The  Lord  graciously 
enable  us  to  do  this  in  very  truth. 

"  I  am  in  receipt  of  two  letters  from  .  .  .  .  May  God 

enable  you,  my  dear  Brother,  to  keep  in  very  close  and  holy 
fellowship  with  Jesus,  so  that  your  loving  manner  may  melt 
them  and  eventually  restore  confidence.  As  you  have  not  stated 
in  what  they  have  gone  astray,  I  feel  I  cannot  enter  into  details. 
.  .  .  Whatever  you  decide  upon,  I  am  sure  you  will  act  only 
after  much  quiet  prayer,  and  I  shall  not  feel  hurt  in  any  degree 
though  you  may  not  see  with  me  or  be  able  to  carry  out  your 
own  wishes.  ... 

"  I  have  written  under  very  great  pressure  of  various  kinds, 
and  beg  you  will  forgive  me  if  I  have  in  any  way  expressed  myself 
in  an  unlovely  spirit.  You  know  the  deep  and  true  affection  I 
have  for  you  and  your  dear  wife,  and  it  will,  I  trust,  never  be 
disturbed." 

So  courteous  in  every  word  and  thought !  in  the  long 
series  of  his  letters  there  is  not  one  deviation  from  this 
humble.  Christlike  spirit.  And  in  spite  of  all  that  he  him- 
self was  going  through,  he  was  steadfastly  encouraging. 

May  19  :    That  you  may  be  enabled  to  cast  upon  God  the 

terrible  trial  resulting  from  Mr.  's  conduct,  and  from  those 

acting  with  him,  I  earnestly  pray.  Let  us  not  fear,  dear  Brother, 
anything  but  our  own  failings  ;  and  these  may  we  ever  be  dis- 
covering, confessing,  and  putting  away.  I  quite  expect  God  will 
appear  for  us  in  the  right  time. 

Occasional  Paper  number  eight  will  contain  the  cash  account 
for  twelve  months,  and  judging  from  the  contributions  in  the 
year  (£2800,  of  which  I  have  contributed  little  more  than  £100) 
I  think  we  ought  to  give  unfeigned  thanks,  take  courage,  and  go 
forw^ard,  though  with  great  caution  and  pray  erf  ulness  of  spirit. 

May  21  :  My  hope  and  confidence  are  in  God,  and  I  seek  to 
roll  the  burden  of  all  upon  Him.  You  and  I  have  our  lessons  to 
learn ;  and  if  we  will  learn  them,  I  doubt  not  God  will  still 
further  use  us  in  His  service. 


O  THAT  THOU  WOULDEST  BLESS  ME  INDEED    109 

It  seems  to  me,  dear  Brother,  we  must  enlarge  our  field  of 
vision  in  regard  to  this  work  ;  that  you  must  not  undertake  so 
much  of  the  detail,  but  a  more  enlarged  oversight ;  that  you  must 
not  have  so  many  immediately  depending  upon  you.  ...  Oh 
what^ieed  for  wisdom  in  every  step  of  this  work  !  .  .  . 

I  have  now  £1700  in  hand,  and  would  gladly  put  £1000  to 
the  Mission  if  we  can  employ  it  wisely.  I  wish  to  continue  aiding 
the  work.  So  I  think  you  must  pray  about  how  we  had  best 
proceed.  I  merely  make  suggestions,  and  you  will  canvass  them 
with  your  dear  wife  and  any  others  whose  judgment  you  value. 

June  7  :  As  regards  your  headship  in  China,  I  consider  it  is 
beyond  being  questioned,  and  that  you  must  not  allow  the  thought 
of  appealing  to  me  on  the  part  of  any  ;  and  I  would  advise  you 
to  act,  as  I  am  sure  you  would,  calmly,  lovingly,  but  firmly  and 
unflinchingly  for  the  Lord,  in  all  cases  where  immediate  action  is 
needed.  I  think  you  will  see  that  I  must  act  in  the  same  way 
in  England,  respecting  candidates  for  China. 

I  am  exceedingly  rejoiced  to  notice  that  with  the  exception 

of none  have  sjmipathy  with  Mr. and  his  doings.  .  .  . 

The  Lord  will  bring  all  these  things  to  a  calm  in  due  time,  I  quite 
think.  He  will  teach  you  the  best  method  to  adopt,  and  us  at 
home.  May  we  only  be  careful  to  be  found  in  a  teachable 
spirit. 

August  5  :  I  do  trust  the  many  tokens  from  our  Father's 
hand,  though  so  afflictive,  are  effecting  in  us  a  more  quiet  and 
chastened  spirit,  leading  us  to  dwell  more  "  in  the  secret  place  of 
the  most  High."  I  think  I  can  truly  say,  "  None  of  these  things 
move  me."  I  am  happier  than  ever,  and  more  sure  that  the  work 
we  have  set  our  hands  to  is  indeed  the  Lord's  work.  May  we 
therefore  expect  it  to  prosper. 

August  24  :  It  is  not  our  mistakes  but  our  refusing  to  correct 
them  when  discovered  that  will  prove  baneful :  of  course  it 
would  be  better  not  to  make  mistakes.  We  have  much  to  learn 
in  order  to  carry  on  this  work  to  the  glory  of  God. 

It  is  to  be  regretted  that  Mr.  Taylor's  part  in  this  corre- 
spondence has  not  been  preserved,  but  the  spirit  in  which 
both  he  and  Mrs.  Taylor  met  these  trials  may  be  judged 
from  letters  written  by  the  latter  to  Mrs.  Berger,  many  of 
which  remain.  From  the  quiet  of  her  room  early  in  February 
she  wrote — a  little  daughter  five  days  old  l5^ng  beside  her  : 

I  have  been  listening  to  my  beloved  husband  and  others  play- 
ing and  singing  in  the  chapel  some  of  our  favourite  hjmms.  One 
in  particular,  "  Oh  for  the  robes  of  whiteness,  oh  for  the  tearless 


no    THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

eye,"  seemed  to  take  me  away  in  thought  to  happy  Saint  Hill,  and 
I  was  aknost  tempted  to  wish  myself  back  in  that  home  of  rest 
and  love.  But  it  is  not  for  the  soldier  on  the  battlefield,  however 
sorely  pressed  or  wounded,  to  wish  himself  back  in  safety  and 
ease.     And  then,  it  was  sweet  to  look  forward  to 

The  no-more  weeping,  within  that  land  of  love ; 
The  endless  joy  of  keeping  the  bridal  feast  above. 

Oh,  beloved  Sister  !  if  the  Lord  will  only  work  by  us,  and  set 
His  seal  upon  our  efforts,  we  will  endeavour  to  rejoice  in  tribu- 
lation. 

"  Do  pray  for  us  very  much,"  she  continued  a  few  weeks  later 
(March  19),  "  for  we  do  so  need  God's  preserving  grace  at  the 
present  time.  We  have  come  to  fight  Satan  in  his  very  strong- 
holds, and  he  will  not  let  us  alone.  What  folly  were  ours,  were 
we  here  in  our  own  strength  !  But  greater  is  He  that  is  for  us 
than  all  that  are  against  us.  One  is  sometimes  tempted  to  feel 
overwhehned  with  the  sense  of  Satan's  power  here  ;  but  our  God 
will  not  fail  nor  forsake  us.  I  should  be  very  sorry  to  see  discord 
sown  among  the  sisters  of  our  party,  and  this  is  one  of  the  evils  I 
am  fearing  now.  .  .  . 

"  What   turn  Mr.   matters  will  take   I  cannot  think. 

One  thing  I  know,  '  the  Hope  of  Israel '  will  not  forsake  us.     One 

is  almost  tempted  to  ask,  '  Why  was  permitted  to  come 

out  ?  '  Perhaps  it  was  that  our  Mission  might  be  thoroughly 
established  on  right  bases  early  in  its  history." 

April  15  :  God  can  in  His  all-wise  providence  utterly  frustrate 
the  designs  of  our  great  adversary  to  bring  us  and  our  work  into 
disrepute.  I  feel  encouraged,  too,  by  looking  back  on  our  own 
experience  in  many  sad  months  of  the  year  before  our  marriage. 
It  was  a  marvel  that  my  mind  even  was  not  poisoned  against  my 
dear  husband  ;  and  we  could  have  no  communication  with  one 
another,  so  as  to  hear  the  other  side.^  Yet  God  mercifully  kept 
us  from  being  influenced  by  the  aspersions  ;  and  the  remembrance 
of  His  past  dealings  must  reassure  us  now. 

He  cannot  have  taught  us  to  trust  in  His  Name, 
And  thus  far  have  brought  us,  to  put  us  to  shame. 

And  all  the  while  souls  were  being  saved,  and  the  prayer 
answered  with  which  the  Lammermuir  party  had  entered 
the  New  Year  :  "  O  that  Thou  wouldest  bless  me  indeed,  and 
enlarge  my  coast,  and  that  Thine  hand  might  be  with  me, 

1  See  Hudson  Taylor  in  Early  Years,  pages  420  et  sqq. 


O  THAT  THOU  WOULDEST  BLESS  ME  INDEED    iii 

and  that  Thou  wouldest  keep  me  from  evil  that  it  may  not 
grieve  me."  ^  Before  the  end  of  March  there  were  twelve 
candidates  for  baptism,  *'  a  little,  green  oasis,"  as  Miss 
Blatchley  wrote,  "  amid  the  clouding  of  manifold  troubles." 
The  weekly  Enquirers*  Meeting  had  to  be  begun  that  month, 
in  spite  of  a  wave  of  popular  excitement  which  resulted  in 
serious  danger  and  persecution,  and  many  of  the  ccaiverts 
gave  evidence  of  a  real  change  of  heart. ^  In  May  came  the 
first  baptisms,  amid  the  joy  of  which  Mrs.  Taylor  wrote  to 
the  friends  at  Saint  Hill : 

Perhaps  our  dear  Lord  sees  that  we  need  sorrows  to  keep  us 
from  being  elated  at  the  rich  blessing  He  is  giving  in  our  work. 

For  at  the  same  time  the  unhappy  spirit  of  the  Siao-shan 
party  seemed  only  to  increase,  and  Mr.  Berger's  difficulties 
at  home  had  reached  a  climax.  These  comphcations  greatly 
hindered  Mr.  Taylor  in  taking  the  pioneering  journeys 
necessary  if  younger  workers  were  to  be  planted  out.  All 
around  them,  even  in  that  coast-board  province,  were 
millions  upon  millions  to  whom  "  no  tidings  came  "  of  the 
one,  the  only  Saviour.  To  these  in  their  sin  and  need  His 
heart  went  out,  moving  those  other  hearts  of  the  little 
missionary  community  with  His  own  constraining  love. 
No  fewer  than  sixty  cities  in  that  one  province  were  still 
without  preachers  of  the  Gospel,  native  or  foreign,  nine  of 
these  being  capitals  of  prefectures,  or  Fa  cities  from  which 
the  rest  were  governed.  To  open  stations  of  the  Mission 
in  these  centres  was  a  purpose  Mr.  Taylor  was  prayerfully 
considering.  In  a  journey  round  the  Ningpo  district  he  had 
taken  counsel  with  his  more  experienced  fellow-workers, 
finding  Mr.  Meadows  and  Mr.  Stott  ready  to  move  on  to 
places  as  yet  unreached.  Two  important  Fu  cities  in  the 
east    and    soath  —  Tai-chow    and    Wen-chow — were    now 

1  I  Chronicles  iv.  9,  10. 

2  In  Februar/  and  March,  after  the  riotous  disturbance  at  Siao-shan, 
matters  looked  very  serious  for  the  missionary  community  in  Hang-chow 
as  well  as  for  the  native  Christians.  A  plot  to  get  rid  of  all  foreigners — 
worked  up  by  so-called  "  doctors  "  of  the  city,  who  saw  their  gains  im- 
perilled— might  easily  have  been  successful  but  for  the  prompt  action  of 
the  local  authorities.  As  it  was,  the  young  converts  were  tested  in  a  very 
real  way,  and  had  practical  demonstration  of  the  power  of  prayer. 


112         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

allocated  to  them,  Mr.  Jackson  of  the  Lammermuir  party 
volunteering  to  accompany  Mr.  Meadows.  This  left  the 
north  and  west  more  particularly  to  the  Hang-chow  workers, 
several  of  whom  were  anxious  to  get  out  alone  among  the 
people,  so  as  to  make  more  progress  with  the  language. 

Freeing  himself,  therefore,  with  no  little  difficulty  from 
headquarters,  Mr.  Taylor  turned  his  face  northward  at  the 
end  of  April,  with  Duncan,  the  stalwart  Highlander,  as  a 
companion.  Years  before  he  had  had  some  memorable 
experiences  in  the  region  of  the  Great  Lake,  when  evangelis- 
ing with  the  Rev.  William  Burns.  Little  or  no  progress  had 
been  made  in  that  turbulent  district  since  then,  and  it  was 
with  thankfulness  the  travellers  found,  even  in  the  Fu  city 
of  Hu-chow,  an  open  door  for  the  Gospel.  Mr.  Taylor  was 
not  able  to  remain  long,  but  so  much  was  he  impressed  with 
the  importance  of  this  centre  that  he  almost  decided,  a  few 
months  later,  to  make  it  his  own  headquarters.  Meanwhile 
it  was  visited  from  time  to  time  by  his  fellow-workers,  one 
earnest  convert  giving  them  great  joy,  and  becoming  on  his 
own  account  a  real  soul-winner. 

Into  the  broad  estuary  of  the  Hang-chow  river  flows  the 
beautiful  Tsien-tang  from  the  mountains  in  the  west  of  the 
province.  To  this  district  Mr.  Taylor  next  turned  his 
attention,  when  the  temporary  closing  of  the  dispensary  in 
June  afforded  him  respite  from  medical  claims.  Duncan, 
who  was  developing  gifts  as  a  pioneer,  was  again  his  com- 
panion, and  Mr.  McCarthy,  the  evangelist  Tsiu,  and  a  couple 
of  Hang-chow  Christians  made  up  the  party. 

Picture  then  the  fiat-bottomed  boat  with  its  arched  roof 
of  matting  in  which  they  took  their  place  among  other 
passengers.  It  was  a  cheerful  scene — for  there  was  little 
sleeping,  although  they  did  not  set  out  till  after  dark.  The 
magnificent  river,  three  miles  wide,  was  flooded  with  moon- 
light, and  a  strong  favourable  wind  kept  away  mosquitoes. 
Under  the  bamboo-matting  the  travellers  w(^.re  Ijdng  about 
in  the  flicker  of  httle  lamps,  some  eating,  some  smoking, 
almost  all  chatting,  the  foreigners  in  Chinese  di-ess  being 
the  main  subject  of  conversation.     Toward  morning,  after 


O  THAT  THOU  WOULDEST  BLESS  ME  INDEED  113 

the  approved  ablutions  in  hot  water,  Mr.  Taylor  and  his 
companions  had  prayers  together  at  the  front  of  the  boat, 
the  music  of  "  There  is  a  Happy  Land  "  floating  out  over 
the  water.  Having  asked  the  blessing  of  God,  a  passage 
from  the  Bible  was  read  and  explained,  their  fellow-travellers 
listening  with  attention. 

Changing  into  a  smaller  boat  farther  up  the  river,  they 
found  themselves  crowded  in  with  a  strange  assortment 
of  passengers.  "  I  had  often  heard  of  lying  '  heads  and 
tails,'  "  wrote  Mr.  McCarthy,  who  was  having  his  first  experi- 
ence of  things  purely  Chinese,  "  but  now  we  had  to  practise 
it !  "  Next  to  Mr.  Duncan  was  an  unhappy  prisoner  with 
chains  around  his  legs,  sentenced  to  banishment  from  his 
own  province  for  murder.  Opposite  were  a  couple  of 
opium  -  smokers  with  their  hghted  lamps.  Farther  on, 
packed  very  closely,  were  five  or  six  Mandarins'  runners,  a 
few  soldiers,  and  other  people  occupying  the  remaining  space. 

Rolling  up  their  bedding  in  the  morning,  the  missionaries 
again  had  a  brief  service,  Mr.  Taylor  speaking  from  the 
fifth  of  Matthew.  This  opened  the  way  for  conversation 
with  one  and  another  as  they  slowly  tracked  on  all  day. 
Here  and  there  picturesque  temples  and  pagodas  stood  out 
against  the  ever-changing  background  of  magnificent  hills. 
Towns  and  villages  told  of  a  dense  population,  and  every 
opportunity  was  taken  of  preaching  in  the  streets  and  tea- 
shops  when  the  boat  came  to  a  standstill.  Provisions  had 
to  be  purchased  as  they  went,  and  Mr.  McCarthy  retained  a 
lively  recollection  of  Duncan's  tall  figure  in  a  white  summer 
gown,  his  shaven  head  with  its  platted  queue  protected  by 
a  huge  straw  hat  lined  with  blue  calico,  in  one  hand  a  palm- 
leaf  fan,  and  in  the  other  a  live  chicken  carried  by  the 
legs. 

At  Yen-chow,  a  Fu  city  a  hundred  miles  above  Hang- 
chow,  a  stay  of  several  days  was  made,  and  there  Mr. 
McCarthy  remained  with  one  of  their  Chinese  helpers,  while 
Mr.  Taylor  and  the  others  went  on.  Still  farther  up  the 
river,  they  left  their  boat  at  a  busy  suburb  of  Lan-chi, 
where  Mr.  Duncan  hoped  to  stay  for  a  time.  A  Ningpo  man 
in  a  tea-shop,   hearing  them  speak  his  own  dialect,   was 

I 


114  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

attracted  and  helped  to  find  a  lodging.  A  teacher  also  was 
given  in  answer  to  prayer,  and  in  their  large  upstair  rooms 
the  missionaries  were  kept  busy  with  visitors. 

"  I  left  Duncan  in  what  we  consider  comfortable  lodgings  for 
travellers,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  on  his  return  journey  :  "a  roof  over 
his  head,  more  or  less  leaky  of  course,  but  still  a  roof ;  a  floor 
under  his  feet,  and  not  a  floor  only  but  rich  accummulations  of 
well-trodden  dirt,  which  could  only  be  partially  removed  by  con- 
siderable exertion.  Having  a  shutter  at  one  end  of  the  room,  if 
no  window,  it  would  be  ungrateful  to  complain  of  the  absence  of 
both  door  and  window-shutter  at  the  other  end — the  more  so  as 
in  event  of  rain  beating  in  beyond  endurance  it  is  easy  to  nail 
up  a  few  pieces  of  matting  which  lie  ready  to  hand,  awaiting  such 
an  emergency." 

The  meagre  furnishing  of  the  room,  consisting  of  little 
but  boards  and  bamboo  trestles,  had  tempted  Duncan  to 
the  "  lavish  expenditure  of  sixpence  "  for  the  purchase  of  a 
chair,  with  which,  and  his  travelling  rug,  pillow,  and  mos- 
quito netting,  he  felt  well  set  up. 

In  a  letter  to  his  mother  on  this  journey  Mr.  Taylor 
referred  to  the  boards  of  a  boat  as  harder  to  lie  on  than  they 
once  were,  though  he  could  still  pass  a  night  very  contentedly 
if  not  very  comfortably  on  such  a  bed.  He  tells  of  getting 
up  before  daylight  wakened  the  other  passengers,  for  quiet 
waiting  upon  God,  and  of  the  joy  of  pouring  out  his  heart 
for  every  member  of  the  Mission  as  the  sun  rose  over  the 
summer  land.  He  gives  a  httle  picture  too  of  travelHng  on 
after  dark,  another  boat  lashed  to  their  own  for  company, 
and  all  the  passengers  gathered  together  to  hear  the  message 
of  Redeeming  Love. 

"  I  preached  to  them  till  I  was  tired,"  he  wrote,  *'  and  I 
supposed  they  would  be  too.  After  a  short  prayer,  I  concluded, 
but  no  one  moved  to  go  away  ;  they  seemed  to  want  to  hear  more. 
So  I  began  again  and  talked  for  a  long  time,  and  again  stopped. 
Still  no  one  moved.  A  few  leading  questions  were  asked,  and 
once  more  I  spoke  to  them  at  great  length.  At  last,  wearied  out, 
it  was  I  who,  after  urging  on  them  the  immediate  importance  of 
turning  to  Christ,  had  to  remind  them  of  the  lateness  of  the  hour 
and  suggest  that  it  was  time  to  retire."  r 


O  THAT  THOU  WOULDEST  BLESS  ME  INDEED  115 

These  were  the  important  things,  the  things  that  mattered; 
and  "  to  realise  more  steadily,"  as  he  expressed  it  in  this 
letter,  "  the  fulness  we  possess  in  Jesus."  Trials  he  ex- 
pected and  did  not  shrink  from,  if  they  might  but  work 
out  the  deeper  purposes  of  God. 

"  More  than  a  year  has  elapsed,"  he  had  written  to  Mr. 
Berger  (May  30),  "  since  we  parted  on  the  deck  of  the  hammer- 
muiYy  but  both  you  and  I  can  still  say — of  the  past,  *  Ebenezer,' 
of  the  present,  '  Jehovah-nissi,'  and  of  the  future,  '  Jehovah- 
jireh,'  thanks  be  to  His  grace  !  Burdens  such  as  I  never  before 
sustained,  responsibilities  such  as  I  had  not  hitherto  incurred, 
and  sorrows  compared  with  which  all  my  past  sorrows  were 
light  have  been  part  of  my  experience.  But  I  trust  I  have,  in 
some  feeble  measure,  learned  more  of  the  blessed  truth  that 

Sufficient  ift  His  arm  alone. 
And  our  defence  is  sure. 

"  I  have  long  felt  that  our  mission  has  a  baptism  to  be  baptized 
with.  It  may  not  be  past  yet.  It  may  be  heavier  than  we  can 
foresee.  But  if,  by  grace,  we  are  kept  faithful,  in  the  end  all 
will  be  well." 


CHAPTER  IX 

AND   ENLARGE   MY   COAST 
1867-1868.     Aet.  35-36. 

Little  reference  has  hitherto  been  made  to  an  element  that 
entered  largely  into  Mr.  Taylor's  experience ;  he  was  the 
tenderest  of  fathers.  His  children  meant  more  to  him  than 
is  usually  the  case  with  a  very  busy  man,  and  his  delight  in 
them  from  their  infancy  was  second  only  to  his  sense  of 
responsibility  for  their  training.  It  had  cost  him  much  to 
bring  them  to  China  ;  and  journeys  that  involved  an  absence 
from  home  of  weeks  at  a  time,  with  no  means  of  communica- 
tion save  by  special  messenger,  were  a  real  test  both  to  him 
and  to  those  left  behind. 

"It  is  an  easy  thing  to  sing,  '  I  all  on  earth  forsake,'  "  he 
wrote  to  his  mother  on  the  first  of  these  occasions  (January  1867). 
"  It  is  not  very  difficult  to  think,  and  honestly  though  ignorantly 
say,  '  I  give  up  all  to  Thee  and  for  Thee.'  But  God  sometimes 
teaches  one  that  that  little  word  '  all '  is  terribly  comprehensive. 
Thank  God  He  has  left  me  much,  very  much  ;  and  above  all,  He 
never  leaves  us." 

A  tiny  sheet  of  pink  notepaper  with  a  flower  painted  in 
one  corner  followed  Mr.  Taylor  on  this  journey.  The  single 
word  "  Papa  "  in  large  round  hand  on  the  envelope  showed 
from  whom  it  came,  but  the  worn  travel-stained  condition 
of  the  little  missive,  as  one  handles  it  now,  is  more  eloquent 
than  the  loving  words  : 

Dear  Papa,  I  hope  God  has  helped  you  to  do  what  you  wanted, 
and  that  you  will  soon  come  back.  I  have  a  nice  bead-mat  for 
you  when  you  come  home  .  .  .  dear,  dear  Papa. 

116 


AND  ENLARGE  MY  COAST  117 

Carried  in  her  father's  pocket-book  for  many  a  long  year, 
Grade's  Uttle  letter,  probably  the  first  she  ever  wrote,  tells 
of  the  hard  life  he  led  no  less  than  of  his  tender  love  for  her. 
She  was  the  eldest  of  his  flock,  the  precious  link  with  early 
years  when  he  had  first  met,  loved,  and  married  her  mother 
in  Ningpo.  Three  sons  had  been  given  them  in  England, 
followed  by  the  baby  sister,  whose  arrival  brought  special 
joy  to  Grade's  heart.  But  though  all  were  equally  dear  to 
their  parents,  there  was  about  the  little  maiden  of  eight 
years  old  a  peculiar  charm.  On  the  Lammermuir,  the 
wonderful  change  in  some  of  the  sailors  when  they  came  to 
know  and  love  the  Lord  Jesus  had  so  impressed  her,  that 
she  too  gave  her  heart  to  the  Saviour  as  never  before.  Her 
deeply  spiritual  nature  had  developed  like  a  flower  in  the 
sunshine,  under  the  consciousness  of  His  love,  so  that 
toward  the  end  of  this  first  summer  in  Hang-chow  her 
father  could  write  to  the  grandparents  : 

I  do  wish  you  had  seen  her  lately.  Since  her  conversion  she 
had  become  quite  another  child.  Her  look  was  more  soft,  more 
sweet,  more  happy. 

That  first  summer  was  intensely  hot,  and  when  the 
thermometer  stood  at  103°  indoors  it  seemed  time  to  seek 
relief.  The  children  were  all  suffering,  and  Mrs.  Taylor  was 
so  ill  that  it  was  with  difiiculty  she  could  be  got  out  of  the 
city.  A  boat  trip  of  six  miles  brought  them  to  the  hills, 
where  amid  the  ruins  of  a  once  famous  temple  accommoda- 
tion had  been  found.  A  couple  of  sheds,  or  long  narrow 
buildings,  were  still  habitable,  in  addition  to  the  hall  that 
held  idols,  and  in  the  former — the  priests  being  willing  to 
turn  an  honest  penny — the  Hang-chow  party  estabhshed 
themselves.  The  hills  were  lovely,  though  the  glory  of 
azaleas,  wistaria,  and  other  spring  flowers  had  passed  away. 
Pines,  oaks,  and  elms  afforded  welcome  shade,  while  mountain 
streams  made  music,  and  as  far  as  eye  could  see  there  was 
one  unbroken  sweep  of  higher  or  lower  ranges,  canals,  and 
rivers,  with  the  Hang-chow  Bay  and  the  open  sea  beyond. 
It  would  have  been  a  paradise  as  compared  with  the  city, 


ii8         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

but  for  the  illness  of  several  of  the  party,  and  the  sorrowful 
sights  and  sounds  of  idol  worship  close  at  hand. 

As  they  left  their  boats  the  first  day  and  were  going  up 
the  steep  stone  path  made  for  pilgrims,  little  Grade  noticed 
a  man  making  an  idol. 

"  Oh,  papa,"  she  said  earnestly,  "  he  doesn't  know  about 
Jesus,  or  he  would  never  do  it !     Won't  you  tell  him  ?  " 

Her  hand  clasped  in  his,  Mr.  Taylor  did  so,  the  child 
following  with  eager  interest.  Farther  on  they  came  to  a 
shady  place  and  sat  down  to  rest.  Grade's  thoughts  were 
still  full  of  what  had  happened,  and  she  seemed  relieved  when 
her  father  suggested  that  they  should  pray  for  the  man 
they  had  been  tr5dng  to  help. 

"  We  sang  a  hymn,"  he  recalled  when  every  memory  of  her 
was  precious,  "  and  then  I  said,  '  Will  you  pray  first  ?  '  She  did 
so,  and  never  had  I  heard  such  a  prayer.  She  had  seen  the  man 
making  an  idol :  her  heart  was  full,  and  she  was  talking  to  God 
on  his  behalf.  The  dear  child  went  on  and  on,  pleading  that  God 
would  have  mercy  upon  the  poor  Chinese  and  would  strengthen 
her  father  to  preach  to  them.  I  never  was  so  moved  by  any 
prayer.  My  heart  was  bowed  before  God.  Words  fail  me  to 
describe  it." 

And  now,  a  week  later,  how  dark  the  shadow  that  had 
fallen  on  that  father's  heart ! 

"  Beloved  brother,"  he  wrote  to  Mr.  Berger  on  the  15th  of 
August,  "  I  know  not  how  to  write  or  how  to  refrain.  I  seem  to  be 
writing,  almost,  from  the  inner  chamber  of  the  King  of  kings. 
Surely  this  is  holy  ground.  I  am  trying  to  pen  a  few  lines  by 
the  couch  on  which  my  darling  little  Gracie  Ues  dying.  Her  com- 
plaint is  hydrocephalus.  Dear  brother,  our  flesh  and  our  heart 
fail,  but  God  is  the  strength  of  our  heart  and  our  portion  for  ever. 

"  It  was  no  vain  nor  unintelligent  act  when,  knowing  this 
land,  its  people  and  climate,  I  laid  my  wife  and  children,  with 
myself,  on  the  altar  for  this  service.  And  He  Whom  so  un- 
worthily, with  much  of  weakness  and  failure,  yet  in  simpUcity 
and  godly  sincerity,  we  are  and  have  been  seeking  to  serve,  and 
not  without  some  measure  of  success — He  has  not  left  us  now." 

"  Who  plucked  this  flower  ?  "  said  the  gardener. 
"  The  Master,"  answered  his  fellow-workman.    And  the 
gardener  held  his  peace. 


AND  ENLARGE  MY  COAST  iig 

It  was  not  that  there  was  any  questioning  of  the  dealings 
of  God  with  them  or  their  precious  child.  But  the  loss  was 
so  great,  so  overwhelming  ! 

"  Except  when  diverted  from  it  by  the  duties  and  necessities 
of  our  position,"  he  wrote  to  his  mother  in  September,  "  our 
torn  hearts  will  revert  to  the  one  subject,  and  I  know  not  how  to 
write  to  you  of  any  other.  Our  dear  little  Gracie  !  How  we  miss 
her  sweet  voice  in  the  morning,  one  of  the  first  sounds  to  greet 
us  when  we  woke — and  through  the  day  and  at  eventide  !  As  I 
take  the  walks  I  used  to  take  with  her  tripping  at  my  side,  the 
thought  comes  anew  like  a  throb  of  agony,  '  Is  it  possible  that  I 
shall  never  more  feel  the  pressure  of  that  little  hand,  never  more 
hear  the  sweet  prattle  of  those  dear  lips,  never  more  see  the 
sparkle  of  those  bright  eyes  ?  '  And  yet  she  is  not  lost.  I  would 
not  have  her  back  again.  I  am  thankful  she  was  taken,  rather 
than  any  of  the  others,  though  she  was  the  sunshine  of  our 
lives.  .  .  .  But  she  is  far  hoUer,  far  happier  than  she  could  ever 
have  been  here. 

"  I  think  I  never  saw  anything  so  perfect,  so  beautiful,  as 
the  remains  of  that  dear  child.  The  long,  silken  eyelashes  under 
the  finely  arched  brows  ;  the  nose,  so  delicately  chiselled  ;  the 
mouth,  small  and  sweetly  expressive  ;  the  purity  of  the  white 
features  ;  the  quiet  composure  of  the  countenance — aU  are  deeply 
impressed  on  heart  and  memory.  Then  her  sweet  Uttle  Chinese 
jacket,  and  the  little  hands  folded  on  her  bosom,  holding  a  single 
flower — oh,  it  was  passing  fair  !  and  so  hard  to  close  for  ever 
from  our  sight. ^ 

"  Pray  for  us.  At  times  I  seem  almost  overwhelmed  with  the 
internal  and  external  trials  connected  with  our  work.  But  He 
has  said,  '  I  wiU  never  leave  thee  nor  forsake  thee,'  and  '  My 
strength  is  made  perfect  in  weakness.'     So  be  it." 

"  He  makes  no  mistakes  "  was  the  unshaken  conviction 
of  these  hearts  ;  and  it  was  with  thankfulness  they  saw,  as 
their  bereavement  became  known,  the  chastening  effect  it 
was  having  upon  others  besides  themselves.  Tidings  of  the 
goodness  of  God  in  this  respect  were  no  little  cheer  to  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Berger  amid  their  difficulties  at  home. 

"  He  is  keeping  Satan   altogether  under  just  now,"   Miss 

1  Miss  Bowyer  also  wrote  from  Hang-chow  at  the  time  :  "  I  never  saw 
anything  so  lovely  as  dear  Uttle  Gracie  the  evening  after  her  death  (on 
August  23)  :  it  was  the  sweetest  expression  of  countenance  one  could 
behold  on  earth." 


120        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Blatchley  was  able  to  write  in  October,  *'  and  I  am  sure  will 
never  let  him  work  against  us  so  as  to  prevail.  How  devoutly 
grateful  we  ought  to  feel  for  the  state  of  things  in  the  Mission 
now  as  compared  with  a  few  months  ago — when  our  lute  seemed 
too  full  of  rifts  for  harmony  ever  to  come  back  again." 

In  His  own  way,  as  they  prayed  and  trusted,  God  was  bring- 
ing it  back.  In  His  own  way,  too,  He  was  leading  to  fresh 
developments. 

For,  meanwhile,  the  great,  waiting  land,  in  all  its  need 
and  darkness,  was  not  forgotten.  Difficulties  had  been  more 
and  trials  heavier  than  had  been  anticipated,  but  even  as 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  gave  back  the  little  one  they  so  tenderly 
loved  to  Him  Whose  loan  she  had  been,  they  consecrated 
themselves  afresh  to  the  task  of  reaching  inland  China  with 
the  Gospel.  At  the  bedside  of  their  dying  child  in  the  temple, 
Duncan,  the  steadfast  Highlander,  Mr.  Taylor's  chief  com- 
panion on  pioneering  journeys,  had  been  keeping  watch. 
Nanking  was  upon  his  heart — the  famous  city  twice  capital 
of  China,  with  its  ancient  wall  twenty  miles  in  circumference, 
and  its  large  population  still  without  any  witness  for  Christ. 
Duncan  was  not  specially  gifted  or  cultured,  but  he  possessed 
grit  and  perseverance  and  a  great  love  for  souls.  He  it  was 
who  had  toiled  at  Chinese  with  the  man  at  the  wash-tub 
while  waiting  a  better  teacher,  sitting  beside  him  for  hours, 
repeating  sentences  as  he  said  them  or  verses  that  he  read 
from  the  Gospels,  and  winning  him  to  Christ  at  length  by  his 
very  earnestness  in  seeking  to  make  the  Saviour  known.-^ 
It  was  something  of  a  risk,  no  doubt,  to  let  Duncan  go  for- 
ward in  such  an  undertaking.  But  he  could  be  spared  ; 
he  was  a  man  who,  his  resolution  once  formed,  never 
wavered  ;  and  the  burden  of  those  souls  w^as  on  his  heart. 

The  early  autumn,  therefore,  saw  this  solitary  pioneer  on 

1  "It  is  a  great  blessing  when  God  gives  one  a  hunger  for  souls," 
Mr.  Taylor  wrote  many  years  later  (November  1902).  "  A  good  many  of 
our  early  workers  had  it.  We  get  better  people  now  in  some  ways,  better 
educated  and  so  on,  but  it  is  not  often  you  find  that  real  hunger  for  souls — 
people  willing  to  live  anywhere  and  endure  anything  if  only  souls  may 
be  saved.  They  were  very  often  humble  people.  If  they  were  to  offer 
to  our  Mission  now,  they  might  not  be  accepted — George  Duncan,  for 
example  !  But  nothing  can  take  its  place,  or  make  up  for  the  lack  of  it. 
...  It  is  so  much  more  important  than  any  ability." 


AND  ENLARGE  MY  COAST  121 

his  way  northward,  a  letter  written  the  day  before  he  reached 
his  destination  giving  some  impression  of  the  spirit  he  brought 
to  bear  upon  his  task. 

Sept.  17,  1867  :  On  Sunday  we  had  a  good  deal  of  rain,  and 
I  could  not  get  into  the  city  (Chin-kiang) .  I  had  a  fine  quiet 
day,  did  a  good  deal  of  reading,  and  had  time  for  meditation  on 
the  Word  and  the  matchless  grace  of  the  Lord  Jesus.  Oh,  to  be 
always  in  a  humble,  devout,  and  consecrated  spirit,  drawing  richly 
from  the  fountain  of  infinite  grace,  being  filled  with  the  fulness 
of  "  Him  that  filleth  all  in  all,"  continually  realising  that  Christ 
is  made  unto  us  "  wisdom  and  righteousness  and  sanctification 
and  redemption,"  and  that  we  are  "  complete  in  Him."  I  feel 
I  want  this  so  much  !  I  have  often  to  say  with  the  Psalmist, 
"  Thou  did'st  hide  Thy  face,  I  was  troubled."  Nothing  can  ever 
substitute  for  the  presence  of  Christ.  "  Whatever  else  may  be 
denied.  Thy  presence.  Lord,  be  given."  I  am  sure  a  real 
Christian  cannot  be  but  miserable  without  it.  Other  helpers 
soon  fail,  apart  from  Him,  and  comforts  flee.  All  our  springs 
are  in  Him.  He  must  be  all  in  all,  the  paramount  object  of  our 
soul's  affection,  or  we  cannot  be  happy  ourselves  or  make  others 
happy  around  us.  Oh  that  I  might  be  satisfied,  filled  with  His 
fulness  !  The  ambitious  man  may  take  the  honours  of  the 
world,  so  I  may  but  have  Christ.  He  shall  be  enough  for  my  soul ! 
To  hear  Him  say  "  I  am  thy  salvation  "  is  more  to  us  than  any- 
thing the  world  can  give. 

Needless  to  say,  the  young  missionary  received  no  welcome 
at  Nanking.  Up  and  down  its  long  streets  he  and  his 
Chinese  helper  searched  in  vain  for  any  lodging  that  would 
take  them  in.  Immediately  on  hearing  of  a  foreigner's 
arrival,  word  had  been  sent  from  the  Prefect  to  every 
hostelry  that  they  were  on  no  account  to  receive  him,  and 
as  night  fell  the  outlook  was  far  from  cheering.  Apparently, 
however,  the  priest  in  charge  of  the  Drum  Tower  had  not 
been  included  among  possible  hosts,  and  when  the  weary 
strangers  sought  his  aid  he  was  not  unwilling  to  render  it. 
He  had  no  proper  room,  he  said,  for  visitors,  but  if  they 
liked  to  sleep  in  the  Drum  Tower  at  night  and  be  out  all 
day,  so  as  not  to  frighten  people  who  came  to  worship,  he 
would  share  with  them  his  accommodation. 

It  was  a  miserable  place  !  Few,  very  few  Europeans 
would  have  thought  it  possible  to  live  there  at  all. 


122        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

But  "  we  gladly  accepted  it,"  wrote  Duncan,  "  and  managed 
very  nicely,  though  we  have  rather  more  rats  than  I  hke.  At 
night  they  want  to  devour  everything  !  " 

Between  the  depredations  of  these  marauders  and  the 
solemn  sound  of  the  drum,  beaten  at  intervals,  it  was  not 
possible  to  get  much  sleep,  and  at  day-dawn  they  had  to 
roll  up  their  bedding  and  turn  out  on  the  streets  of  the  city. 
The  tall  figure  of  the  missionary  soon  became  familiar  in 
the  tea-shops  and  frequented  thoroughfares,  and  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  the  Drum  Tower  must  have  known  him  well 
before  he  succeeded  in  finding  another  residence.  A  car- 
penter at  last  had  courage  to  receive  him,  dividing  off  a  strip 
of  his  single  upstairs'  room  for  the  use  of  the  foreigner.  On 
the  other  side  of  the  matting  lived  the  Chinese  family,  while 
below  was  the  shop  and  kitchen,  so  that  the  new  arrivals  had 
every  opportunity  for  picking  up  colloquial  conversation. 
After  a  time  Duncan  persuaded  his  landlord  to  share  with 
him  the  lower  room  as  well.  A  slight  partition  was  put  up, 
giving  the  missionary  a  long  but  very  narrow  street  chapel, 
the  first  ever  opened  in  Nanking  ;  and  there  he  sat,  like 
Judson  in  his  zayat,  receiving  and  conversing  with  all  who 
would  turn  in. 

"  I  am  not  able  to  talk  much,"  he  wrote,  "  but  God  helping 
me,  I  \vill  say  what  I  can,  and  T'ien-fuh  (the  Chinese  evangeUst) 
makes  them  understand.  Oh,  to  make  everything  conduce  to  the 
gathering  in  of  precious  souls  and  the  glory  of  our  Master  1  " 

Thus  was  commenced  permanent  missionary  work  in  the 
great  city  that  is  now  one  of  the  strongest  centres  of  the 
Christian  Church  in  China.  Duncan  may  not  have  been  able 
to  do  much  ;  but  he  held  the  fort  with  quiet  courage,  and 
one  soul  at  any  rate  was  saved  in  that  first  street  chapel.^ 
A  remarkable  answer  to  prayer,  also,  was  given  which  it  is 
good  to  recall. 

Soon  after  his  arrival  in  Nanking  Duncan  had  inquired 
about  banks  through  which  money  could  be  remitted  to  him, 

1  "  This  self-denying  work  was  not  in  vain.  One  man  who  first  heard 
him  there  became  interested,  convinced,  converted.  After  due  probation 
he  was  baptized  ;  and  being  early  removed,  left  his  dying  as  well  as  living 
testimony  to  the  grace  of  Him  Who  is  mighty  to  save."  See  China's 
Millions  for  September  1875,  article  by  J.  Hudson  Taylor. 


AND  ENLARGE  MY  COAST  123 

and  had  sent  Mr.  Taylor  the  names  of  two  that  had  repre- 
sentatives in  Hang-chow.  But  one  of  these  had  failed,  it 
appeared,  while  the  other  had  left  the  city.  This  informa- 
tion was  communicated  to  Duncan  as  soon  as  possible,  and 
he  set  about  seeking  other  agencies,  but  without  success  for 
a  time.  The  situation  did  not  disquiet  him.  He  was  sure 
that  the  Master  Who  had  sent  him  there,  and  was  giving  him 
acceptance  with  the  people,  would  not  fail  in  some  way  or 
other  to  provide.  Still,  his  last  piece  of  silver  had  to  be 
changed ;  the  strings  of  cash  disappeared  one  by  one  ;  and 
the  cook  who  was  really  anxious  came  and  said  : 

*'  What  shall  we  do  when  the  money  is  all  gone  ?  " 

"  Do  ?  "  was  Duncan's  quiet  reply  ;  "we  will  '  trust  in 
the  Lord  and  do  good  ' ;  so  shall  we  '  dwell  in  the  land,'  and 
verily  we  shall  be  fed." 

To  go  back  to  Hang-chow  himself  would  have  been 
possible  ;  but  Duncan  well  knew  that  if  once  he  left  the  city 
it  would  be  ten  times  more  difficult  to  get  in  again.  His 
hardly  won  position  was  too  precious  to  be  endangered. 
So  he  wrote  that  he  would  trust  in  God  and  hold  on. 

Matters  were  in  this  position  when,  to  Mr.  Taylor's  relief, 
Rudland  arrived  unexpectedly,  ready  for  any  service.  He 
was  more  than  willing  to  carry  supplies  to  Nanking,  and  set 
off  at  once  by  boat  for  the  ten  or  twelve  days'  journey. 
Wind  and  weather,  the  condition  of  embankments  and  the 
temper  of  the  boat-people  all  seemed  favourable,  until  he 
came  to  a  place  where  the  water  was  so  low  in  the  Canal  that 
they  could  go  no  farther.  Repairs  were  needed  somewhere, 
and  would  be  put  through  in  time.  Meanwhile  the  Foreign 
teacher  must  make  up  his  mind  to  wait ! 

But  this  was  just  what  Rudland  could  not  do.  So  far 
he  had  been  wonderfully  prospered  in  answer  to  prayer,  and 
though  surprised  at  the  hindrance  being  permitted,  he  was 
sure  the  Lord  had  some  way  of  helping  him  on.  All  was 
explained,  however,  when  he  found  that  by  abandoning  the 
boat  and  striking  off  overland  he  could  shorten  the  journey 
by  four  days.  This  meant  sixty  miles  on  foot,  with  only 
Chinese  shoes,  or  on  a  springless  wheelbarrow  ;  but  eagerly 
he  pressed  on. 


124        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

And  what  of  Duncan  and  his  companions  ?  The  cook 
had  saved  five  dollars  from  his  wages,  and  when  his  master's 
supplies  came  to  an  end  he  revealed  this  little  store  and 
begged  him  to  accept  it. 

"  But  you  know  I  do  not  borrow,"  said  Duncan  simply. 

"  No,  sir/*  urged  the  man,  "  it  is  a  gift — a  gift  to  the 
Lord." 

That  being  evidently  his  intention,  Duncan  took  it 
thankfully,  and  they  were  of  one  mind  in  making  it  go  as  far 
as  possible.  But  five  dollars,  however  economically  used, 
will  not  last  indefinitely,  and  the  morning  came  when  there 
was  not  enough  to  provide  another  meal.  It  was  Saturday 
too  ;  and  the  cook  had  to  stop  his  master,  who  was  going 
out  to  preach  as  usual,  with  the  question  : 

"  What  shall  we  do  now  ?  " 

"  Do  ?  "  was  still  the  answer  ;  "we  will  '  trust  in  the 
Lord  and  do  good  '  ;  so  shall  we  '  dwell  in  the  land,'  and 
verily  we  shall  be  fed." 

But  Chu-meo  watched  his  friend  and  teacher  down  the 
street  with  a  sinking  heart.  Verily  thou  shall  he  fed — ^it  was 
a  promise  from  God's  Word,  he  knew,  and  they  were  fulfil- 
ling the  conditions  ;  but  would  it,  would  it  prove  true,  now 
they  had  nothing  else  to  depend  upon  ? 

Twelve  miles  from  the  city,  that  very  morning,  Rudland, 
limping  painfully  along,  fell  in  with  a  donkey-boy  looking 
for  a  job. 

**  Oh,  yes,  he  had  heard  of  the  foreigner  living  in  Nanking ! 
For  a  few  tens  of  cash  he  would  take  this  friend  to  his  door." 

As  the  sun  set  that  evening,  returning  from  a  long  day's 
work,  what  was  Duncan's  surprise  to  see  his  faithful  servant 
running  with  a  joyous  face  to  meet  him. 

''It's  all  right,  it's  all  right,"  he  cried,  panting  for  breath; 
**  Mr.  Rudland — ^the  money — ^a  good  supper  !  " 

"  Did  I  not  tell  you  this  morning,"  he  replied,  laying  a 
kindly  hand  on  his  shoulder,  "  that  it  is  always  '  all  right ' 
to  trust  in  the  living  God  ?  " 

This  experience,  tidings  of  which  Rudland  carried  back 
to  Hang-chow,  was  a  great  encouragement  both  to  the 
missionaries  and  native  Christians.    There  too  the  Lord  was 


AND  ENLARGE  MY  COAST  125 

working,  and  the  sorrowful  days  of  summer  were  giving 
place  to  the  joy  of  harvest.  To  Mr.  Taylor's  great  thankful- 
ness, he  had  been  joined  by  his  old  friend  Wang  Lae-djiin 
of  Ningpo,  who  was  by  this  time  an  experienced  Christian 
worker.  An  engagement  with  another  mission  had  detained 
him  ;  but  no  sooner  was  he  free  than  he  came  over  to  see  if 
he  could  be  of  use  to  those  to  whom  he  owed  everything 
spiritually.  Twice  already  baptisms  had  taken  place  at 
Hang-chow,  and  there  was  quite  a  group  of  believers  who 
needed  pastoral  care.  This  Mr.  Taylor  was  little  able  to  give, 
with  all  the  other  claims  upon  him,  and  it  was  with  great 
thankfulness  he  recognised  in  Wang  Lae-djiin  the  very 
helper  needed. 

And  now  the  little  church  inaugurated  in  July  with 
nineteen  members  was  growing  rapidly  under  the  helpful 
oversight  of  its  native  pastor.  Mr.  Taylor  himself  was  keep- 
ing in  close  touch  with  them,  preaching  on  Sundays  when- 
ever he  could,  and  seeking  to  develop  a  missionary  spirit 
among  the  Christians.  Many  ghmpses  are  given  in  the 
correspondence  of  the  period  of  this  side  of  his  activities, 
the  more  directly  missionary  work  in  which  he  delighted  ; 
but  upon  these  we  must  not  dwell.  Of  the  October  baptisms 
Mrs.  Taylor  wrote : 

When  I  went  down  to  the  afternoon  service  I  saw  such  a  sight 
as  would  have  rejoiced  the  hearts  of  dear  friends  at  home.  Our 
courtyard  in  front  of  the  main  part  of  the  house  is  a  large  one, 
and  it  was  more  than  filled  with  a  quiet,  attentive  audience.  One 
hundred  and  sixty  persons  were  seated.  Dear  Lae-djiin  baptized 
three  men  and  three  women,  and  the  service  was  held  there  as 
being  more  convenient  than  the  chapel. 

And  this  brings  us  to  one  of  the  important  discoveries 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  were  making  along  the  lines  of  women's 
work.  For  the  new  departure  of  going  to  the  people  in 
their  own  homes,  dressed  as  they  were,  and  with  nothing 
that  could  make  them  feel  the  Gospel  message  to  be  foreign 
to  their  own  life  and  surroundings  was  justified  by  results. 

"  I  think  if  you  could  see  how  the  people  love  and  trust  us 
you  would  rejoice,"  Miss  Faulding  wrote  that  autumn.  "  It  does 
so  please  them  to  see  us  Uking  to  be  like  themselves  in  outward 


V 


126        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

things.  They  express  the  greatest  satisfaction,  and  are  delighted 
especially  that  our  shoes  and  style  of  hair-dressing  should  be  the 
same  as  theirs.  Instead  of  having  difficulty  in  getting  access  to 
the  people,  they  come  here  day  after  day  saying, 

"  '  Fuh  Ku-niang}  we  want  you  to  come  to  our  house  and 
teach  us  about  the  religion.' 

"  A  woman  said  to  me  the  other  day,  *  Do  come,  my  mother 
wants  to  hear.  .  .  .' 

"  I  sometimes  long  that  my  whole  time  could  be  spent  in 
visiting,  at  others  that  at  least  half  could  be  given  to  the  school — 
for  I  do  so  long  to  see  native  preachers  raised  up  there,  and  the 
boys  want  training.  Then  again,  we  need  books  so  much  that  if  I 
could  spend  several  hours  daily  with  the  teacher  I  should  be  glad. 
The  work  just  seems  overwhelmmg  taking  this  city  alone,  and 
how  much  more  so  when  one  looks  beyond  to  provinces  full  of 
cities  in  which  there  is  no  missionary !  And  look  beyond  we 
must. 

"  My  heart  does  so  well  up  with  joy  that  I  am  here,  and  here 
among  the  people  to  a  great  extent  as  one  of  themselves.  .  .  . 
Nothing  could  be  more  encouraging  than  our  position — so  almost 
more  than  willingly  the  people  listen.  I  should  think  when  I  go 
out  I  often  speak  to  more  than  two  hundred  persons.  .  .  .  Yet 
I  am  never  treated  in  any  way  rudely,  but  with  all  kindness. 
Sometimes,  indeed,  it  is  with  difficulty  I  get  out  of  having  to 
smoke  a  pipe,  while  tea  and  lunch  I  frequently  have  to  take." 

Rich  and  poor  alike  welcomed  this  gentle  visitor ;  and 
it  was  not  a  passing  curiosity,  for  the  more  she  became 
known  the  more  was  she  invited  into  homes  of  all  sorts. 
Ladies  in  Mandarins'  families  sent  for  her,  and  she  was 
welcomed  even  to  a  Buddhist  nunnery,  but  as  of  old  it  was 
**  the  common  people  "  who  gave  most  heed  to  the  message. 

"  I  have  now  been  out  of  each  of  the  city-gates  (ten  of  them)," 
she  wrote  after  fifteen  months  in  Hang-chow,  "  and  am  widely 
known  in  every  part  of  the  city,  but  still  find  it  difficult  to  over- 
take all  the  visits  I  am  asked  to  make.  Fuh  Ku-niang  often 
wishes  she  could  make  herself  into  two  or  three,  or  else  accomplish 
two  or  three  times  as  much  as  she  can  in  a  day.  I  am  very  glad  I 
can  speak  to  the  people  in  the  Hang^chow  dialect ;    it  pleases 

1  Fuh,  the  character  chosen  as  the  nearest  in  sound  to  Miss  Paulding's 
surname,  means  happiness  :  "  Miss  Happiness,"  a  suitable  name  for  the 
bright-faced  girl  who  was  a  messenger  of  life  and  peace  to  so  many  in 
Hang-chow,  and  who  is  lovingly  remembered  there  to  this  day. 


AND  ENLARGE  MY  COAST  127 

them,  and  I  believe  brings  the  Truth  home  more  than  the  most 
fluent  Ningpo  would  do. 

"I  sat  down  the  other  day  beside  a  peasant  girl  and  said, 
with  my  hand  on  hers  : 

'"If  you  want  to  be  happy  you  should  worship  God.  Your  rice 
is  the  gift  of  Heaven.  It  is  Heaven  that  creates  and  preserves 
life,  is  it  not  ?  (Quoting  two  well-known  Chinese  proverbs.)  I 
want  to  tell  you  about  true  happiness  which  the  Lord  of  Heaven 
will  give  you,  if  you  worship  Him.' 

"  I  had  not  time  to  say  more  before  she  got  up,  and  standing 
in  the  door  of  her  little  hut,  bowed  herself  three  or  four  times 
in  worship  of  Heaven.  So  simply  and  eagerly  did  she  express  her 
longing  for  happiness  !  Then  she  sat  down  again  by  my  side  and 
listened  attentively  while  I  told  her  of  God  and  heaven  and  hell, 
and  the  wonderful  way  of  salvation. 

"  As  I  came  home  it  was  raining  and  not  very  pleasant,  but 
this  and  other  receptions  I  had  just  had  made  me  feel '  Would  that 
others  might  know  the  joy  of  this  work,  and  come  and  carry  the 
Truth  to  every  Chinese  home  \'  " 

This  spirit  won  its  way,  and  it  was  largely  due  to  such 
visiting  that  new  faces  were  always  to  be  seen  in  the  chapel 
at  Sin-kai-long. 

"  I  ^vish  you  could  have  been  with  me  the  other  day,"  Miss  1 
Faulding  continued  a  week  later,  "  as  I  went  to  one  and  another  ' 
of  the  strav/  huts  among  the  ruins.  The  people  had  mostly  seen 
or  heard  of  me  before,  and  apologising  for  their  wretched  homes 
(which  are  wretched  indeed  !),  they  received  me  cordially.  As  so 
often  happens,  my  dress  met  with  high  approval,  which  led  me  to 
say : 

"  '  I  have  come  here  to  be  a  Hang-chow  woman.  I  eat  your 
rice,  wear  your  dress,  speak  your  words,  and  I  desire  your  happi- 
ness.    You  see,  we  are  all  sisters.' 

"  This  last  specially  pleased  the  woman  to  whom  I  was  speak- 
ing. 

"  '  Ah,'  she  said,  '  you  call  me  your  sister  !  That  is  good  ! 
Then  I  may  call  you  my  Great  (or  Elder)  Sister.' 

"  *  But  your  years  are  more  than  mine.' 

"  *  Yes,'  she  replied,  taking  my  hand  in  hers,  '  but  you  have 
come  to  teach  us  ;  so  you  are  my  Great  Sister.' 

"  It  seemed  as  if,  in  finding  a  httle  sympathy,  new  springs 
in  her  nature  had  been  touched.  Putting  her  arm  round  my 
shoulder  as  we  were  leaving,  she  said  : 

"  '  I  will  come  on  Sunday  ;   I  will  come  on  Sunday/  "  ^ 


128         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

And  come  they  did — men,  women,  and  children,  whether 
to  school  or  sewing-class,  dispensary  or  public  meetings. 
The  medical  work  had  done  much  to  attract ;  but  Mr. 
Taylor  as  he  watched  it  all  could  not  but  be  profoundly 
impressed  with  this  new  line  of  things,  new  at  any  rate  in 
China. 

"  No  mightier  power  has  been  entrusted  to  us,"  he  wrote  that 
first  autumn,  "  than  the  true  sympathy  that  identified  itself 
with  those  it  seeks  to  benefit.  It  carried  the  heart  captive  ;  and 
to  get  close  to  the  hearts  of  the  people  is  our  great  aim  ;  to  win 
their  confidence  and  love  our  daily  object. 

"  In  its  actual  influence  on  the  people  at  large,"  he  continued 
with  regard  to  such  work  as  the  ladies  were  doing,  "  I  am  strongly 
inclined  to  consider  it  the  most  powerful  agency  at  our  disposal."* 

And  fuller  experience  only  justified  the  conclusion.  Yet 
of  all  the  innovations  connected  with  the  Mission  none  met 
with  stronger  opposition.  The  presence  of  unmarried  ladies 
in  the  interior  at  all  was,  with  many,  a  sufficient  ground  for 
condemning  the  whole  work,  and  determined  efforts  were 
made  to  secure  their  recall  to  the  coast.  It  was  strongly 
stated  in  letters  home  that  to  send  unmarried  ladies  to  inland 
stations  was  a  waste  of  life  and  energy,  as  there  was  no  open- 
ing for  their  labours.  This  moved  Mrs.  Taylor  deeply,  and 
quite  early  in  the  summer  she  had  written  to  Mrs.  Berger  : 

Oh,  how  can  any  one  v/ho  knows  the  love  of  Christ  look  round 
upon  these  groping,  perishing  heathen  and  call  any  expenditure 
"  a  waste  "  which  brings  about  their  conversion  !  Had  we  the 
right  people  and  suitable  accommodation,  I  beheve  that  twenty 
Sisters  could  easily  find  work  in  Hang-chow  to-morrow.  I  feel 
pretty  sure  I  could  find  work  for  ten  Miss  Fauldings  and  ten  Miss 
Bowyers.  The  Lord  ever  keep  them  as  simple  and  true-hearted 
as  they  are  ! 

I  have  always  found  that  the  great  difiiculty  in  the  way  of 
female  agency  has  been  location.  So  few  married  couples  (and  I 
do  not  wonder  at  it,  or  blame  any  for  it)  are  prepared  to  give  up 
the  retirement  and  privacy  which  are  so  pleasant,  and  to  receive 
comparative  strangers  into  their  family.  My  dear  husband  and  I 
have  at  times  discussed  the  feasibility  of  estabhshing  some  of 

*  From  Mr.  Taylor's  first  general  letter  to  friends  at  home  after  reach- 
ing Hang-chow,  dated  October  1867. 


AND  ENLARGE  MY  COAST  129 

the  Sisters  in  a  house  by  themselves,  and  perhaps  after  a  time 
this  might  be  done.  .  .  .  But  may  the  Lord  direct.     It  is  His  work 

we  are  doing,  and  He  can  and  will  raise  up  helpers.     Mr. 's 

assertion  about  their  being  very  little  opening,  etc.,  stirs  me  to 
hope  and  pray  that  God  will  show  his  mistake  by  pouring  out  a 
large  blessing  upon  this  instrumentahty,  feeble  though  it  be  in 
itself. 

Thus  they  were  grappling  with  big  problems,  and  obtain- 
ing, even  then,  glimpses  of  developments  to  which  God  was 
leading  in  His  own  way.  And  in  the  process  He  was  develop- 
ing them,  preparing  one  and  another  for  the  special  work 
that  lay  before  them.  How  little  Rudland,  for  example,  or 
any  one  else  in  those  early  days,  could  have  foreseen  the 
usefulness  for  which  he  was  being  fitted.  Of  all  the  Hang- 
chow  party  he  was  the  one  who  seemed,  at  any  rate  to  him- 
self, least  likely  to  do  much  in  China.  He  could  not  get 
hold  of  the  language  ;  and  the  more  he  tried  to  study  the 
worse  became  the  headaches,  that  left  him  utterly  dis- 
couraged. But  Mr.  Taylor  was  developing  as  a  leader  no 
less  than  his  fellow-workers  along  other  lines. 

"  I  wonder  could  you  spare  time  to  help  me  a  little  ?  '* 
he  said  to  Rudland  one  day,  after  prayerfully  considering 
how  to  meet  the  difficulty. 

*'  Gladly  would  I,"  responded  the  young  man,  "  but  what 
is  there  I  can  do  ?  " 

"  Well,  I  am  troubled  about  the  printing-press.  The 
workmen  seem  to  get  through  so  little  when  left  to  them- 
selves, and  I  really  have  not  time  to  look  after  them.  You 
managed  so  well  in  putting  the  press  together ;  do  you  not 
think  you  could  superintend  it  for  me  now  ?  " 

In  vain  Rudland  protested  that  he  knew  nothing  about 
printing. 

*'  If  you  will  just  go  in  and  begin  at  the  beginning,"  said 
Mr.  Taylor,  "  the  men  will  be  pleased  to  show  you  how  to 
set  up  type,  etc.,  and  the  fact  of  your  being  there  will  keep 
them  to  their  work." 

So  Rudland  left  his  books  for  the  cheerful  activity  of 
the  printing-room.  The  workmen  were  glad  to  have  his 
company  and  proud  to  display  their  superior  knowledge 

K 


130        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Listening  to  their  conversation  by  the  hour  together,  he 
found  himself  picking  up  words  and  phrases  more  quickly 
than  he  could  discover  their  English  equivalents.  It  was 
the  Gouin  system  to  perfection  !  and  all  his  spare  time  he 
was  fain  to  spend  over  the  dictionary  to  make  out  what  he 
had  been  learning.  The  headaches  were  soon  conquered, 
and  the  lines  laid  down  for  a  life  service,  that  was  to  include 
the  translation  and  printing  of  almost  the  entire  Scriptures 
in  a  dialect  spoken  by  millions  to  whom  the  Word  of  God 
was  thus  made  accessible. 

Resourcefulness  was  one  of  the  characteristics  Mr, 
Taylor  was  developing  to  the  advantage  of  those  associated 
with  him.  They  were  learning  to  know  that  if  anything 
could  be  done  to  meet  a  case  of  need  he  was  pretty  sure  to 
see  it,  and  not  likely  to  be  hindered  by  difficulties  that  grit, 
grace,  and  gumption  could  overcome.  None  who  were  in 
Hang-chow  at  the  time  would  forget  his  arrival  one  night, 
for  example,  long  after  the  city  gates  were  shut  and  they  had 
given  up  hope  of  seeing  him.  One  of  the  party  was  seriously 
ill,  and  in  Mr.  Taylor's  absence  no  medical  help  was  available. 
A  messenger  was  sent  after  him,  and  he  turned  back  from 
an  important  journey  only  to  find  himself  too  late  to  enter 
the  city.  Darkness  had  fallen,  and  the  gates  were  closed 
and  barred.  There  seemed  nothing  for  it  but  to  spend  the 
night  on  the  river,  while  a  precious  life  might  be  at  stake. 

But  who  was  this  coming  up  behind  him  who  seemed 
confident  of  getting  in  ?  A  Government  messenger  with  des- 
patches !  then  the  gate  would  be  opened  surely  ?  But  no :  a 
basket,  he  saw,  was  being  let  down  over  the  wall,  in  which 
the  messenger  was  to  be  drawn  up.  It  was  no  use  asking 
for  a  passage  in  that  uncertain  craft,  but  Mr.  Taylor's  quick 
eye  caught  means  of  steadying  it.  Hanging  from  the  basket 
was  a  rope,  which  it  was  the  work  of  a  moment  to  seize  as 
it  was  ascending.  It  required  pluck  and  determination, 
however,  to  hold  on  and  face  the  angry  guards  at  the  top. 
*'  I  gave  them  two  hundred  good  reasons,"  said  Mr. 
Taylor  on  reaching  home,  "  why  they  should  allow  me  to 
proceed." 

"  Two  hundred  I  how  had  you  time  ?  " 


AND  ENLARGE  MY  COAST  131 

'*  They  came  out  of  my  cash-bag,"  was  the  smiUng  reply, 
"  so  it  did  not  take  very  long." 

Among  all  the  mercies  that  crowned  the  year  1867 — the 
first  complete  year  for  the  Lammermuir  party  in  China — 
none  was  greater  than  the  answer  to  the  prayer  with  which 
it  had  opened,  "  O  that  Thou  wouldest  bless  me  indeed  and 
enlarge  my  coast."  The  stations  occupied  by  the  Mission 
had  doubled  in  number  in  that  short  period.^  At  its  com- 
mencement, the  distance  between  the  most  widely  separated 
had  been  only  four  days'  journey ;  but  at  its  close, 
Duncan  in  Nanking  was  as  much  as  twenty-four  days,  by 
ordinary  means  of  travel,  from  Stott  in  Wen-chow, — a  con- 
siderably enlarged  sphere  of  labour  when  one  remembers 
that,  with  the  exception  of  Hang-chow,  no  Protestant 
missionaries  save  those  of  the  C.I.M.  were  settled  anywhere 
away  from  the  coast  or  the  treaty  ports.  And  the  earnest 
spirit  at  Sin-kai-long  was  just  as  marked  an  answer  to  prayer. 

'*  Oh  !  that  we  may  be  made  capable  of  bearing  much  bless- 
ing," wrote  one  of  the  young  workers  to  Mrs.  Berger  in  November. 
"  Do  pray  that  we  may  each  be  drawn  close  to  the  Saviour,  and 
kept  walking  with  Him  in  such  sweet  fellowship  that  for  us  to 
live  may  be  Christ.  Then,  what  wonders  should  we  see  !  .  .  . 
The  destitution  in  the  hght  of  eternity  is  awful.  It  stares  us  in 
the  face.  Human  effort  cannot  meet  it ;  nothing  can,  short  of 
divine  power.  So  do  pray.  Oh  !  we  need  to  lay  hold  upon  God 
about  it.  May  He  make  us  really  in  earnest.  How  can  we 
trifle,  how  can  we  be  listless  in  view  of  His  unfailing  promise  that 
what  we  ask  in  faith  we  shall  receive  ?  .  .  .  Why  are  we  not 
Israels  ?     God  grant  that  we  may  learn  how  to  pray." 

For  the  great  land  around  them,  as  well  as  for  their  own 
spiritual  needs,  the  last  day  of  the  year  was  again  set  apart 
for  prayer  and  fasting.  From  eleven  in  the  morning  till 
3  P.M.  one  meeting  lasted, 

"  without  weariness,"  Miss  Blatchley  wrote,  "  God's  Holy 
Spirit  wrapping  us  round  in  renewed  dedication  and  truly  baptiz- 
ing us  :    'He  shall  baptize  you  with  the  Holy  Ghost  and  with 

1  In  addition  to  Siao-shan,  which  was  near  Hang-chow,  Tai-chow-fu, 
Nanking,  and  V/en-chow  had  been  opened — all  important  governing  cities 
and  centres  of  population. 


132         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

fire/  At  8.30  we  again  met  for  united  prayer,  and  still  that 
power  gathered  and  increased.  Mr.  Taylor  read  the  90th  Psalm. 
We  continued  in  prayer  and  singing  till  the  year  ended,  and  at 
twelve  partook  of  the  Lord's  Supper.  A  hoher  time  I  have  never 
known." 

And  there  was  need  for  such  inward  strengthening.  In 
spite  of  success — because,  indeed,  of  the  footing  gained  in 
some  places,  there  was  great  and  increasing  opposition  in 
others.  From  his  sick-bed,  only  a  few  weeks  earlier,  Mr. 
Taylor  had  been  carried  to  the  Governor's  ya-men  to  report 
in  person  the  ill-usage  of  Mr.  McCarthy's  helpers,  who  had 
been  set  upon  and  almost  beaten  to  death  in  Hu-chow.  As 
soon  as  he  could  travel,  he  had  gone  direct  to  the  scene  of 
the  riot,  living  himself  in  a  boat  within  the  turbulent  city, 
and  giving  two  weeks  of  careful,  patient  effort  to  smoothing 
matters  over,  only  to  find  that  for  the  time  being  foreigners 
must  retire.  No  sooner  had  the  new  year  dawned  than  Mr. 
Williamson  was  driven  out  of  another  important  city, 
through  attacks  on  those  who  had  befriended  him  ;  and  Mr. 
Taylor,  who  was  making  a  tour  of  the  older  stations,  was 
overtaken  with  the  tidings  that  Kin-hwa-fu  had  had  to  be 
given  up. 

"  I  went  to  see  the  poor  fellow  in  prison,"  Mr.  Williamson 
wrote  of  the  middleman  who  by  order  of  the  Mandarin  had 
suffered  three  thousand  blows.  "  His  back  and  legs  were 
severely  swollen  and  bruised.  He  was  shut  up  in  a  den  with  a 
number  of  criminals,  confined  like  so  many  mid  beasts  in  a  cage. 
The  weather  was  very  cold,  and  there  seemed  every  probability 
of  the  poor  fellow  losing  his  hfe  from  the  treatment  he  had 
received.  .  .  .  Next  morning  the  landlord  was  sent  for  to  the 
ya-men,  while  the  mother  and  wife  of  the  imprisoned  man  were 
threatening  to  commit  suicide,  blaming  us  for  bringing  all  this 
trouble  upon  them.  The  same  day,  in  order  to  save  these  poor 
people  from  further  ill-usage,  we  left  the  house  .  .  .  returning 
to  Hang-chow." 

It  was  proving  harder  even  than  had  been  anticipated, 
this  pioneering  work — yet  how  Mr.  Taylor's  heart  went  out 
to  the  Christless  multitudes  around  them  !  Crossing  the 
beautiful  district  of  Tai-chow-fu  for  the  first  time,  he  was 
profoundly  impressed  with  its  countless  villages  and  hamlets 


AND  ENLARGE  MY  COAST  133 

among  the  mountains  as  well  as  the  towns  and  cities  of  its 
populous  plains. 

"  Are  there  no  servants  of  our  common  Lord  rusting  away  at 
home,"  he  wrote  to  Mr.  Berger,  "or  at  least  doing  work  that 
others  would  do  if  they  left  it,  who  might  be  out  here  among 
these  numberless  towns  and  villages  ? 

"  As  we  passed  the  gate  of  one  little  town,  a  coffin  was  being 
borne  to  its  last  resting-place. 

"  '  Alas  !  '  said  the  native  Christian  with  me,  '  if  the  Gospel 
were  preached  in  this  place  to-day,  it  would  be  too  late  for  that 
poor  man.' 

"  Yes,  and  for  how  many  more  will  it  be  too  late  I  My 
thoughts  were  busied,  now  with  the  untold  need  of  the  un- 
occupied provinces,  now  with  the  neglected  districts  of  this 
province,  until  I  was  compelled  to  roll  the  burden  on  the  Lord, 
and  cry  to  Him  for  wisdom  to  dispose  aright  of  those  He  may 
send  to  help  me,  and  to  plead  for  more  native  and  foreign 
workers." 

Very  easily,  as  one  can  see,  might  the  whole  Mission  have 
become  absorbed  in  that  one  coast-board  province,  small 
though  it  was  among  all  the  provinces  of  China.  But, 
providentially,  door  after  door  was  closed.  Riots,  disturb- 
ances, sickness,  and  other  troubles  hindered  developments 
that  would  have  tended  in  this  direction,  and  gradually, 
almost  insensibly,  Mr.  Taylor's  own  way  seemed  guided 
northward. 

"  If  you  will  not  smile  at  my  planning  in  our  dining-room," 
Mr.  Berger  had  written  in  a  letter  that  crossed  Mr.  Taylor's 
quoted  above,  "  I  will  tell  you  my  musings  concerning  your 
future  movements.  I  fancy  you  will  some  day  transfer  your 
headquarters  to  some  desirable  city  or  town  very  near  the  Yangtze 
River,  perhaps  within  easy  reach  of  Hang-chow.  Thus  you 
would,  I  suppose,  have  access  to  a  Consul,  and  facihties  for  going 
to  Shanghai  and  up  the  river,  so  as  to  reach  many  provinces. 
The  Lord  guide  you  in  all  things :  '  He  that  beheveth  shall  not 
make  haste.'  " 

It  was  not  easy  after  sixteen  months  in  Hang-chow  to 
face  the  thought  of  leaving  the  work  that  had  become  so 
dear  to  them  for  "  some  desirable  city  near  the  Yangtze  '* 
in  which  to  begin  all  over  again.     Fifty  baptized  believers 


134        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

were  gathered  already  in  the  Httle  church  under  Pastor 
Wang's  care,  and  there  were  many  inquirers.  But  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  McCarthy  and  Miss  Faulding  would  remain  in  charge 
of  the  station  and  be  quite  able  to  receive  and  help  new 
workers.  Duncan  at  Nanking  was  sorely  needing  rehef,  and 
Mrs.  Taylor  was  ready  to  go  either  there  or  anywhere  else 
as  the  work  seemed  to  require.  But  much  had  to  be  con- 
sidered as  spring  came  on,  and  the  noon  prayer  meetings 
were  times  of  real  drawing  near  to  God. 

To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Judd,  who  had  recently  arrived  from 
home,  all  this  was  very  memorable. 

"  It  really  was  building  the  wall  in  troublous  times,"  he  wrote 
of  those  days :  "  one  never  knew  what  friends  who  were  away 
might  be  suffering.  Scarcely  any  station  was  opened  without  a 
riot.  The  noon  meetings  were  solemn  hours — often  prolonged, 
because  there  was  so  much  to  pray  about.  One  feels  the  thrill  of 
them  still." 

The  quiet  courage  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor,  taking  up 
themselves  the  pioneering  work  in  which  experience  was  so 
needed,  specially  impressed  Mrs.  Judd. 

"  One  always  felt  braver  when  with  them,"  she  recalled, 
"  more  able  to  endure  haidness.  One  seemed  to  catch  something 
of  their  spirit.  Those  solemn  hours  of  waiting  upon  God  when  we 
first  reached  Hang-chow  can  never  be  forgotten.  The  powers  of 
darkness  seemed  so  real,  as  one  stronghold  after  another  was 
attacked  by  our  small  band  of  workers.  But  the  presence  of  the 
Lord  was  more  real,  as  Mr.  Taylor  pleaded  that '  with  all  boldness  ' 
we  might  speak  His  Word,  and  that  the  Name  of  Jesus  might  be 
glorified  ;  and  we  were  confident  that  victory  would  be  the  Lord's 
and  ours." 

But  the  leader  of  the  Mission,  conscious  only  of  weakness 
in  himself,  was  taken  up  with  Another. 

"  I  am  sure  you  never  forget  us  at  the  Throne  of  Grace,"  he 
had  written  to  his  mother,  thinking  of  what  the  coming  summer 
might  mean  to  wife  and  children.  "  I  try  to  live  a  day  at  a  time, 
and  even  so  have  enough  to  do  ;  but  though  I  try,  I  do  not  always 
succeed.  Pray  for  more  faith,  more  love,  more  wisdom  for  me. 
.  .  .  What  could  1  do  without  the  promise,  '  Lo,  /  am  with  you 
alway  '  ?  " 


Chap. 

lO. 

j» 

II. 

i» 

12. 

"9 

13. 

?♦ 

14. 

PART  III 

TREASURES   OF   DARKNESS 

1868-1870.     Aet.  36-38. 

An  Open  Door:    A  Little  Strength. 
The  Darkest  Hour. 
The  Exchanged  Life. 
Jesus  does  satisfy. 
Shall  never  thirst. 


What  then  ?     Why  then  another  pilgrim  song ; 

And  then  a  hush  of  rest  divinely  granted  ; 
And  then  a  thirsty  stage  (ah  me,  so  long  !) 

And  then  a  brook,  just  where  it  most  is  wanted. 

What  then  ?     The  pitching  of  the  evening  tent ; 

And  then,  perchance,  a  pillow  rough  and  thorny ; 
And  then  some  sweet  and  tender  message  sent. 

To  cheer  the  faint  one  for  to-morrow's  journey. 

What  then  ?     The  wailing  of  the  midnight  wind, 
A  fev'rish  sleep  ;    a  heart  opprest  and  aching  ; 

And  then  a  little  water  cruse  to  find. 

Close  by  my  pillow,  ready  for  my  waking. 

What  then  ?     I  am  not  careful  to  inquire  : 

I  know  there  will  be  tears,  and  fears,  and  sorrow  l 

And  then  a  loving  Saviour  drawing  nigher. 
And  saying,  "  I  will  answer  for  the  morrow." 

What  then  ?     For  all  my  sins  His  pardoning  grace. 
For  all  my  wants  and  woes  His  loving  kindness  i 

For  darkest  shades  the  shining  of  God's  face  ; 

And  Christ's  own  hand  to  lead  me  in  my  blindness^ 

What  then  ?     A  shadowy  valley  lone  and  dim. 
And  then  a  deep  and  darkly  rolhng  river ; 

And  then  a  flood  of  light — a  seraph  hymn 
And  God's  own  smile,  for  ever  and  for  ever. 


CHAPTER  X 

AN   OPEN   DOOR   ...   A   LITTLE   STRENGTH 
1868.     Aet.  36. 

Pleasant  enough  for  the  first  few  weeks  was  that  spring 
journey  up  the  Grand  Canal.  Hang-chow  was  left  behind  on 
the  loth  of  April,  Mrs.  Taylor  and  the  children  travelling  by 
house-boat  in  a  measure  of  comfort.^  After  long  confinement 
within  city  walls,  the  freedom  and  freshness  of  the  country 
were  dehghtful.  Extensive  mulberry  plantations  bordered 
the  Canal,  with  plum,  peach,  and  apricot  orchards  in  bridal 
array.  Wheat  and  barley  covered  the  valleys,  interspersed 
with  great  tracts  of  peas  and  beans  in  flower.  The  Canal 
itself,  alive  with  boat  traffic,  was  an  endless  interest  to  the 
children,  while  the  background  of  hills  refreshed  their  elders 
with  ever  -  changing  loveliness.  And  there  were  many 
opportunities  for  coming  into  friendly  relation  with  other 
travellers  and  the  people  whose  homes  they  were  passing 
day  by  day. 

The  little  boys  spinning  their  tops  were  a  great  source  of 
interest. 

*'  One  man  asked  if  he  might  take  the  foreign  toy  and  show  it 
to  a  Mandarin's  lady  in  a  boat  close  at  hand,"  wrote  Miss 
Blatchley.  "  In  a  few  moments  the  lady  in\dted  us  to  come  and 
see  her.  Tea  was  offered,  and  the  servants  were  told  to  boil 
some  eggs  for  the  children.     In  the  afternoon  this  lady  called  upon 

1  Mrs.  Taylor  was  accompanied  by  Miss  Blatchley  and  the  children's 
nurse,  Mrs.  Bohanan  (who  had  replaced  Mary  Bell,  her  sister,  now  married 
to  Mr.  Rudland) .  Mr.  Taylor  followed  ten  days  later,  having  been  detained 
by  illness  in  the  family  of  one  of  the  American  missionaries  in  Hang-chow. 

137 


138        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

us  in  our  boat.     We  were  glad  she  did,  as  it  gave  Mrs.  Taylor  an 
opportunity  for  putting  the  Gospel  clearly  before  her." 

On  Sunday  they  did  not  travel.  The  boat  was  moored 
to  the  shore,  and  a  service  held  with  open  doors  and  windows. 

"  A  few  came  on  board  and  sat  with  us,"  continued  the 
journal.  "  A  Mandarin's  wife  living  just  opposite  came  across 
and  stayed  till  the  service  was  over.  Before  she  left,  Mrs.  Taylor 
explained  the  way  of  salvation  to  her  more  fully.  She  seemed  to 
drink  in  every  word.  Our  Christian  servant  called  at  her  house 
in  the  afternoon." 

At  one  great  city  en  route — Soo-chow — workers  of  the 
Mission  had  recently  obtained  a  settlement,  and  a  stay  of 
three  weeks  enabled  Mr.  Taylor,  who  there  caught  up  the 
party,  to  give  considerable  help  in  medical  and  other  ways.^ 
Beyond  this  point  all  was  unbroken  ground.  Save  for 
Duncan  at  Nanking  and  the  L.M.S.  and  W^esleyan  workers 
in  the  treaty  port  of  Hankow,  not  a  Protestant  missionary 
was  resident  northward  or  westward  anywhere  in  the 
interior.  To  join  the  former  in  his  lonely  post  was  Mr 
Taylor's  intention,  unless  some  more  important  opening 
should  detain  him  by  the  way. 

And  this  was  just  what  happened  when  Chin-kiang  was 
reached — that  busy  centre  of  population  and  commerce  at 
the  junction  of  the  Grand  Canal  and  the  mighty  flood  of 
the  Yangtze.  Being  a  treaty  port,  a  few  foreigners,  includ- 
ing the  British  Consul,  were  living  in  the  Settlement  outside 
the  native  city,  and  in  one  of  the  suburbs  the  L.M.S.  had  a 
chapel  in  charge  of  a  native  preacher.  No  missionary,  how- 
ever, was  to  be  found  nearer  than  Shanghai,  at  a  distance  of 
twenty-four  hours  by  steamer.  Much  impressed  with  the 
strategic  importance  of  this  place,  Mr.  Taylor  set  on  foot 
inquiries  with  a  view  to  renting  premises,  and  was  soon  in 

1  The  charm  as  well  as  importance  of  this  place  from  the  Chinese  point 
of  view  may  be  judged  from  their  proverb,  "  Above  is  Heaven  ;  below — 
Hang-chow  and  Soo-chow."  Mr.  Charles  Schmidt — formerly  an  officer 
under  General  Gordon  in  the  "  Ever- Victorious  Force  " — had  been  the 
first  to  live  and  preach  Christ  in  this  city.  Converted  through  the  instru- 
mentality of  Mr.  Meadows,  he  was  a  warm  friend  to  the  C.I.M.,  and  at  his 
request  the  Mission  had  also  undertaken  work  in  Soo-chow.  Mr.  Henry 
Cordon  had  succeeded  in  renting  premises  a  few  weeks  previously,  in  which 
regular  services  were  now  commenced  with  help  from  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor. 


AN  OPEN  DOOR:    A  LITTLE  STRENGTH     139 

treaty  for  a  house  inside  the  city,  which  was  ultimately 
obtained,  though  not  without  serious  difficulty  and  danger. 
Meanwhile,  seeing  that  the  negotiations  were  likely  to  be 
prolonged,  he  continued  his  journey  across  the  Yangtze  and 
a  few  miles  up  the  northern  section  of  the  Grand  Canal. 

And  now  the  travellers  were  nearing  the  far-famed  city 
of  Yang-chow,  of  which  Marco  Polo  was  once  Governor. 
Rich,  proud,  and  exclusive,  it  contained  a  population  of 
three  hundred  and  sixty  thousand,  still  without  any  witness 
for  Christ.  Life  on  the  water  by  this  time  was  losing  its 
charm.  Spring  had  given  place  to  summer,  and  with  the 
intense  heat  the  rainy  season  had  come  on.  Day  and  night 
it  poured  incessantly,  and  the  children,  cooped  up  in  the 
leaky  boat,  where  nothing  could  be  kept  dry,  were  exposed 
to  serious  risks.  Waiting  upon  God  very  definitely  for 
guidance,  it  was  with  no  little  thankfulness  that  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Taylor  saw  the  way  open  before  them  much  more 
readily  than  could  have  been  anticipated.  Within  the  city, 
their  native  helpers  had  come  into  friendly  touch  with  an 
inn-keeper  able  and  willing  to  receive  the  whole  party.  The 
accommodation  he  offered,  moreover,  was  not  on  the  ground 
floor — always  more  or  less  malarious  at  such  a  season — but 
five  rooms  forming  an  upper  story  which  they  could  have  to 
themselves.  This  was  so  unusual  from  every  point  of  view 
that  they  could  not  but  feel  it  providential,  and,  thankfully 
leaving  the  crowded  junks  on  the  Canal,  they  took  possession 
of  their  new  quarters. 

"  Were  it  not  that  you  are  old  travellers  yourselves,"  Mrs. 
Taylor  wrote  to  Mrs.  Berger  (June  18),  "  I  should  think  it  im- 
possible for  you  to  realise  our  feelings  last  Monday  week,  when  we 
exchanged  the  discomforts  of  a  boat,  into  every  room  of  which  the 
heavy  rain  had  been  leaking,  for  a  suite  of  apartments  in  a  first- 
rate  Chinese  hotel — such  a  place  as  my  husband  who,  as  you  know, 
has  seen  a  good  deal  of  Chinese  travellers'  accommodation,  never 
before  met  with;  and  that  hotel,  too,  inside  the  city  of  Yang- 
chow." 

"  An  open  door  ...  a  little  strength  "  and  "  many 
adversaries  " — it  was  no  new  situation  for  heralds  of  the 
Cross,  though  it  was  to  prove  more  serious  in  its  outcome 


140        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

than  Mr.  Taylor  at  first  anticipated.  For  to  begin  with, 
the  people  seemed  friendly.  The  presence  of  the  mother  and 
children  disarmed  suspicion.  Evidently  this  foreigner  in 
"  civilised "  {i.e.  Chinese)  dress  was  no  commercial  or 
political  agent,  and  curiosity  attracted  many  visitors.  The 
inn-keeper,  indeed,  who  had  been  a  little  anxious,  offered 
his  services  as  "  middleman,"  if  Mr.  Taylor  wished  to  rent 
premises  and  settle  in  the  city.^ 

It  was  not  easy  when  matters  had  reached  this  point  for 
Mrs.  Taylor  to  leave  her  family  in  their  temporary  quarters 
and  go  down  alone  to  Shanghai.  But  one  of  the  servants 
was  ill  with  what  threatened  to  be  smallpox — a  disease  very 
prevalent  in  the  city — and  the  baby  was  not  vaccinated. 
She  was  now  their  only  little  daughter,  and  months  of  whoop- 
ing-cough had  sadly  reduced  her  strength.  There  were 
mission  matters  in  Shanghai  that  needed  attention,  and  Mr. 
Duncan's  fiancee  had  to  be  met  and  escorted  inland.  No 
one  could  undertake  these  duties  and  care  for  the  sick  baby 
as  well  as  Mrs.  Taylor,  and  there  seemed  no  reason  why  the 
boys  should  not  be  left  with  Miss  Blatchley  and  the  nurse. 
Under  these  circumstances,  Mr.  Taylor  concluded  that  she 
should  take  the  journey,  and  saw  her  off  in  the  middle  of 
June  by  steamer  from  Chin-kiang. 

In  the  latter  city  negotiations  about  the  house  were 
making  progress,  and  he  was  able  to  get  the  deed  signed 
soon  after  Mrs.  Taylor  left.  Possession  was  promised  in  a 
fortnight,  if  the  Governor  granted  a  favourable  proclama- 
tion. Applied  for  by  the  British  Consul  this  also  was 
promised,  "  if  all  were  straightforward."  Feeling  reasonably 
sure  of  one  home  at  any  rate,  Mr.  Taylor  then  sent  for  the 
Rudlands,  who  were  waiting  at  Hang-chow  to  bring  the 
printing-press  and  family  belongings.  "  If  all  were  straight- 
forward "  covered  a  good  deal,  however,  in  the  Mandarin's 
mind,  and  left  a  loophole  that  unfriendly  subordinates  were 
not  slow  to  appreciate.  Endless  were  the  difficulties  and 
complications  that  arose  in  consequence,  fostered  by  the 
district  official,  who  proved  to  be  intensely  anti-foreign. 

1  In  the  interests  of  this  kindly  host,  Mr.  Taylor  had  called  upon  the 
local  Mandarin,  making  his  presence  and  purposes  known,  and  had  obtained 
an  assurance  that  there  should  be  no  interference. 


AN  OPEN  DOOR:    A  LITTLE  STRENGTH     141 

Meanwhile  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  in  their  separation  were 
facing  unexpected  troubles.  The  infection  caught  by  the 
Chinese  helper  proved  to  be  measles,  and  one  by  one  the 
children  at  Yang-chow  sickened,  until  all  were  down  with 
it — the  youngest  desperately  ill  with  bronchitis  as  a  compli- 
cation. Mr.  Taylor  could  only  be  thankful  that  the  baby 
at  any  rate  might  escape,  and  that  her  mother  was  spared 
some  of  the  anxiety  and  nursing.  When  they  had  parted, 
it  was  fully  expecting  that  ten  days  or  a  fortnight  would  see 
her  home  again  ;  but  now,  every  post  seemed  to  bring  either 
business  to  be  attended  to  in  Shanghai,  or  calls  for  help  from 
one  and  another  of  the  stations.  Mr.  Taylor  could  not  leave 
Yang-chow  under  the  circumstances,  and  was  obhged  to  put 
unwonted  responsibilities  upon  the  one  he  would  fain  have 
relieved  could  he  have  known  her  circumstances. 

For  at  the  coast  Mrs.  Taylor  all  the  while  was  fighting 
a  brave  fight  for  the  life  of  their  youngest  child.  Kindly 
received  by  Mr.  Gamble,  she  had  had  the  baby  vaccinated 
without  delay,  hoping  to  get  through  her  business  and  be 
ready  to  return  as  soon  as  the  Hindustan  should  bring  Mr. 
Duncan's  expected  bride.  The  vaccination  proved  effective, 
but  never  had  she  seen  a  child  so  ill  with  it  before.  Medical 
help  had  to  be  called  in,  and  before  long  it  was  evident  that 
the  baby  was  suffering  from  a  severe  attack  of  measles  in 
addition  to  vaccination  and  whooping-cough.  And  Mrs. 
Taylor  herself  was  far  from  well. 

Even  before  the  letters  came  from  Yang-chow  telling  of 
the  illness  of  the  boys,  her  mother's  heart  had  anticipated  it, 
and  all  that  their  father  would  be  suffering.  Her  one  comfort 
was  that  he  would  not  know  about  little  Maria,  or  about  the 
distressing  home  mails  she  was  receiving.  For  there  had 
been  a  revival  of  the  painful  opposition  which  had  already 
caused  Mr.  Berger  so  much  anxiety,  and  the  letters  from 
Saint  Hill,  while  gracious  and  loving  as  ever,  had  much  that 
was  painful  to  communicate.  It  was  under  these  circum- 
stances that  her  indomitable  spirit  shone  out,  and  the  faith 
that  made  her,  as  her  fellow- workers  were  not  slow  to  realise, 
"  the  backbone  of  the  Mission."  Yet  she  was  clinging  and 
sensitive  to  an  unusual  degree,  depending  upon  her  husband, 


142        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

and  loving  him — ^if  that  were  possible — even  more  than  she 
was  loved. 

"  The  Lord  give  us  a  single  eye  to  do  His  will,"  she  wrote  on 
June  29,  after  expressing  her  readiness  to  go  on  to  Tai-chow, 
"  and  then  guide  us  just  where  He  would  have  us.  .  .  . 

"  I  have  received  a  packet  of  letters  from  Hang-chow  this 
morning,  enclosing  the  last  mail  from  home.  I  am  afraid  some  of 
the  contents  of  the  latter  may  distress  you,  but  '  our  Father 
knoweth.'  Let  us  cast  all  our  burdens,  and  they  are  many  and 
weighty,  upon  our  omnipotent,  all-wise,  loving  Father.     They 

are  but  feathers  to  Him  1     As  to  Mr. 's  continued  opposition, 

that  too  is  in  God's  hands,  and  surely  He  will  stand  by  us. 
He  cannot  have  taught  us  to  trust  in  His  Name 
And  thus  far  have  brought  us  to  put  us  to  shame. 

*'  Let  us  remember  how  He  worked  for  us  with  regard  to  Mr. 

L ;    yes,  how  He  has  appeared  for  us  again  and  again. 

'  Thou  hast  been  my  help  ;  leave  me  not  neither  forsake  me, 
O  God  of  my  salvation.'  " 

"  Do  pray  that  God  will  give  me  wisdom  and  a  clear  head," 
she  added  with  regard  to  business  matters,  "  as  well  as  singleness 
of  eye." 

A  few  days  later  the  doctor's  visit  was  far  from  re- 
assuring. 

Perhaps  his  manner,  more  than  what  he  actually  said,  made  me 
feel  that  possibly  we  might  be  called  to  give  up  this  little  one 
too.     The  Lord  is  our  stay,  and  He  will  not  leave  us  now. 

*'  My  own  Treasure,"  she  continued  on  July  10,  "  is  it  that  our 
tender  Father  is  endeavouring  to  teach  us  by  His  present  deaHngs 
lessons  which  He  might  take  sterner  methods  to  impress  ?  Oh ! 
may  He  Himself  help  us  to  learn  them,  givmg  us  docile,  teachable 
spirits.  How  much  we  lean  upon  each  other  for  comfort  or 
counsel  we  only  find  out  when  long  separated,  and  perhaps  He 
is  trying  to  teach  us  to  lean  in  the  same  way,  and  to  a  yet 
fuller  extent  upon  Himself — our  heavenly  Husband  Who  is  so 
thoroughly  competent  to  undertake  for  us  in  every  perplexity, 
difficulty  or  danger.  Satan  sometimes  says,  '  Yes,  He  is  fully 
competent  in  any  other  difficulty  but  the  present.  You  can 
hardly  expect  Him  to  manage  this  particular  matter  for  you— it 
is  too  trivial,'  or  '  too  complex.'  And  how  ready  we  are  to  believe 
him  !— instead  of  honouring  God  with  unwavering  confidence." 

It  was  a  comfort  to  hear  about -this  time  that  the  Httle 
patients  in  Yang-chow  were  better,  though  she  seemed  as 


AN  OPEN  DOOR:    A  LITTLE  STRENGTH     143 

far  as  ever  from  being  able  to  return  to  them.  The  vessel 
she  was  awaiting  was  much  overdue,  and  no  word  had  been 
received  as  to  its  whereabouts.  Moreover,  as  soon  as  the 
baby  could  be  left  with  her  Chinese  nurse,  Mrs.  Taylor  was 
expecting  to  go  on  to  Ningpo  at  any  rate — little  realising 
that  it  was  in  Yang-chow  she  was  now  needed  most. 

For  the  intense  heat  of  summer,  combined  with  many 
anxieties,  had  tried  Mr.  Taylor  more  than  his  letters  showed. 
Houses  had  been  offered  him  in  plenty,  but  just  when  all 
seemed  propitious  the  negotiations  would  break  down,  and 
promises  of  a  favourable  proclamation  "  to  reassure  the 
people  "  were  unfulfilled,  until  hope  deferred  made  the  heart 
sick.  At  last,  however,  about  the  middle  of  July,  the  pro- 
clamation appeared  ;  the  house  then  in  question  was  at  once 
handed  over  to  them,  and  the  little  party  moved  in,  thankful 
for  the  greater  liberty  thus  afforded.  Six  weeks  in  the  inn 
after  two  months  of  boat-life  had  prepared  them  to  appreciate 
a  home  of  their  own  again,  if  home  it  could  be  called  with 
the  mother  so  far  away. 

But  the  letter  that  told  the  good  news  brought  her  strange 
sinking  of  heart.  A  few  pencilled  lines,  written  evidently 
in  great  weakness — written  from  Chin-kiang — what  could  it 
mean  ? 

I  think  I  told  you  we  had  got  the  proclamation  for  Yang- 
chow.  We  have  not  yet  got  the  one  for  this  place — hope  to  do  so 
to-morrow.  But  I  must  return,  I  am  so  ill.  Would  you  write 
Meadows  and  ask  if  he  can  come  and  help  me  ?  .  .  .  God  bless 
you.  Go  to  Ningpo,  darling,  if  you  think  well,  and  may  God  go 
with  you.  If  our  hearts  are  to  be  rendered  up  a  sacrifice,  the  wiU 
of  the  Lord  be  done.     Soon  we  shall  never  part  again.  .  .  ," 

The  words  were  faint  and  wavering,  as  must  have  been 
the  hand  that  traced  them.  Alone  in  a  boat,  and  so  ill ! 
And  she  could  not  know  whether  he  had  got  back  to  Yang- 
chow,  or  how  he  was  being  cared  for. 

It  was  Sunday  the  26th  of  July.  The  up-river  steamer 
would  be  starting  in  a  few  hours  that  would  land  her  at  Chin- 
kiang  the  following  evening.  There  was  no  question  in  Mrs. 
Taylor's  mind  as  to  whether  she  ought  to  go.  Mr.  McCarthy 
had  come  to  Shanghai  and  would  wait  for  the  long-delayed 


144         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Hindustan.  She  saw  her  way  to  arranging  for  help  at 
Ningpo,  and  the  baby  was  well  enough  to  travel.  But  what 
about  the  steamer  ?  If  it  had  not  been  Sunday  how  gladly 
would  she  have  taken  it !  As  it  was  she  did  not  hesitate  to 
let  it  go  without  her,  although  the  alternative  was  a  journey 
by  foot-boat  of  at  least  two  days  and  nights.  With  a  heart 
that  cried  to  God  she  quietly  made  her  preparations,  waiting 
until  evening  before  engaging  her  boat. 

That  boatman,  surely,  had  a  tale  to  tell  when  he  came 
back  from  taking  the  foreign  lady  with  her  nurse  and  child 
to  Chin-kiang  !  Starting  before  dawn  on  Monday  morning, 
they  had  travelled  steadily  on  via  the  Grand  Canal  until 
he  was  obhged  to  drop  the  oar  from  very  weariness.  But 
while  he  slept  they  travelled  still.  Hour  after  hour  by  day 
or  night,  whenever  he  was  obhged  to  rest,  the  lady  had  taken 
his  place,  plying  the  oar  as  naturally  as  she  spoke  his  Ningpo 
words,  caring  little  for  heat  or  backache  if  only  they  could 
press  forward — and  all  because  her  husband  was  ill  and  she 
wanted  to  get  to  him  as  quickly  as  possible.  Much  as  he 
wondered  at  the  unusual  proceeding,  the  boatman  httle  knew 
what  it  was  that  gave  strength  to  that  mother's  heart  as  well 
as  to  her  fragile  form.  It  was  prayer  that  carried  them 
through,  despite  heat  and  weariness — prayer  how  abund- 
antly answered  when  upon  reaching  Yang-chow  she  found 
her  loved  ones  an  unbroken  circle  and  was  able  to  nurse  Mr. 
Taylor  back  to  his  usual  health. 

Happy  though  they  were  to  be  together  again  in  a  home 
of  their  own,  it  was  not  long  that  the  missionary  household 
was  to  enjoy  even  a  measure  of  security.  The  big  wandering 
premises  had  from  the  first  been  besieged  with  visitors,  so 
much  so  that  Miss  Blatchley  had  had  no  choice  but  to  make 
it  a  rule  that  none  might  come  upstairs  but  the  ladies  of 
Mandarins'  famihes.  This  was  before  Mrs.  Taylor's  return, 
and  her  presence  did  but  attract  more  interest.  There  was 
much  to  be  done  between  whiles  to  make  the  new  home 
habitable,  as  well  as  to  prepare  at  Chin-kiang  for  the  arrival 
of  the  Rudlands.  Preaching  at  Yang-chow  on  Sundays,  Mr. 
Taylor  had  to  go  frequently  to  the  other  city  where  the 
house  matter  was  still  unsettled,  the  Governor  withholding 


MRS.    HUDSON   TAYLOR    {7tc'e   MARIA    DYER). 


To /ace  page  144. 


AN  OPEN  DOOR:    A  LITTLE  STRENGTH     145 

the  proclamation  without  which  the  landlord  could  not  be 
kept  to  his  bargain.  It  was  generally  known  that  ^he  deeds 
had  been  signed  and  the  deposit  paid  over,  and  the  way  in 
which  the  missionary  and  his  Consul  were  being  worsted 
was  the  laugh  of  tea-house  and  restaurant. 

Nor  was  this  all.  Exaggerated  reports  reaching  the 
neighbouring  city  naturally  suggested  in  certain  circles  that 
the  visitors  might  be  treated  with  as  scant  courtesy  in  Yang- 
chow.  Why  allow  them  to  make  friends  and  settle  down, 
when  by  carrying  things  with  a  high  hand  they  could  be 
ejected  ?  Upon  the  strength  of  the  Chin-kiang  situation, 
a  meeting  was  held  among  the  literati  and  a  decision  arrived 
at  to  stir  up  trouble.  This  was  done  by  means  of  anonymous 
hand-bills,  attributing  the  most  revolting  and  unnatural 
crimes  to  foreigners,  especially  those  whose  business  it  was 
to  propagate  "  the  religion  of  Jesus."  Early  in  August,  the 
missionaries  began  to  realise  the  change  that  was  coming 
over  the  attitude  of  the  people.  Friendly  visitors  had  given 
place  to  crowds  of  the  lowest  rabble  about  the  door,  and  a 
fresh  set  of  posters,  quite  unfit  for  translation,  was  as  fuel 
to  the  fire. 

"  On  Saturday  the  15th,"  wrote  Mr.  Reid  who  had  come  over 
from  Nanking,  "  Mr.  Taylor  received  an  anonymous  letter,  advis- 
ing him  to  use  all  possible  precautions,  as  on  the  following  day 
there  was  to  be  a  riot.  .  .  .  We  had  but  one  source  of  comfort, 
and  that  a  well-tried  one  ;  and  meeting  together  that  evening  we 
poured  out  our  hearts  to  the  Lord,  Who  did  not  fail  us.  Next 
morning  (Sunday)  the  people  assembled  at  an  early  hour,  and 
began  knocking  and  battering  upon  our  door  .  .  .  until  we 
thought  it  best  to  go  out  and  try  to  pacify  them.  ...  I  think  I 
never  felt  more  the  power  and  value  of  speaking  gently  than  on 
that  day.  Dear  Mr.  Taylor  spoke  often  to  those  assembled  in  a 
very  kind  manner  ;  and  while  we  watched,  those  inside  the  house 
prayed,  and  God  graciously  brought  us  through,  confirming  te 
our  hearts  the  promise,  '  Lo,  I  am  with  you  alway.V' 

The  trouble  went  on,  however,  and  on  the  i8th  Miss 
Blatchley  wrote  : 

For  the  last  few  days  we  have  been  almost  in  a  state  of  siege. 
Mr.  Taylor,  just  up  from  a  sick-bed  and  weak  as  he  is,  has  hardly 
dared  to  leave  the  gate,  Messrs.  Reid  and  Rudland  with  him  • 

L 


146         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

and  on  Saturday  night  Mr.  Duncan  opportunely  arrived. 
Happily,  before  the  disturbance  became  very  serious,  we  were 
able  by  pressing  on  the  workman  to  get  the  many  entrances  into 
our  wandering  premises  contracted  into  one.  .  .  .  But  our  trust 
is  not  in  the  walls  we  build,  which  an  infuriated  mob  could  easily 
overthrow  .  .  .  but  under  the  shadow  of  His  wings. 

The  most  calumnious  hand-bills  against  us  have  been  posted 
about  the  city.  In  one  of  them  the  Name  of  Jesus  is  blasphemed 
in  the  vilest  terms,  and  the  paper  professes  to  emanate  from  the 
god  of  war,  Kwan-ti.  To-day  (Tuesday)  was  placarded  as  the 
day  for  attacking  our  house  and  setting  it  on  fire,  regardless  of 
native  or  foreign  occupants.  Once  or  twice  the  mob  has  seemed 
inclined  to  break  in  by  force,  but  the  disturbance  is  less  than  on 
Sunday.  God  is  with  us,  we  do  not  fear.  .  .  .  We  know  that 
whatever  happens  will  be  by  His  permission,  for  we  have  put  our- 
selves into  His  hands.  He  will  not  leave  us.  As  I  write  He  is 
sending  thunder  and  the  threatening  of  rain,  which  will  do  more 
for  us,  Mr.  Taylor  was  saying,  than  an  army  of  soldiers.  The 
Chinese  shun  rain  ;  the  most  important  matters  they  will  post- 
pone on  account  of  it.  May  God  forgive  these  poor  blind  people, 
and  defeat  Satan,  by  making  these  disturbances  the  means  of 
more  widely  diffusing  the  truth  among  them,  "  Surely  the  wrath 
of  man  shall  praise  Thee  ;  and  the  remainder  of  wrath  Thou 
shalt  restrain."  Any  attempt  to  set  the  place  on  fire  now  would 
be  vain  indeed,  for  the  rain  is  coming  down  in  torrents. 

After  this,  it  looked  as  though  the  worst  was  over.  In 
spite  of  all  that  had  been  said  against  them,  the  quiet, 
friendly  demeanour  of  the  missionaries  was  winning  its  way, 
and  the  storm  seemed  to  have  spent  itself  without  disaster. 
From  Wednesday  to  Saturday  the  wearied  household  had  a 
little  respite,  and  glad  indeed  were  they  that  none  of  them, 
not  even  the  women  and  children,  had  fled  from  the  threaten- 
ing danger. 

But,  strange  to  say,  before  the  close  of  the  week  an 
opportunity  occurred  for  reviving  the  agitation.  A  couple 
of  foreigners  from  Chin-kiang,  wearing  not  the  native 
costume  adopted  by  Mr.  Taylor's  party,  but  undisguised 
"  foreign  dress,"  came  up  to  visit  Yang-chow,  and  were  seen 
in  various  parts  of  the  city.  This  was  too  good  a  chance  to  be 
lost,  and  no  sooner  had  they  left  with  the  impression  that  all 
was  quiet,  than  reports  began  to  be  circulated  that  children 
were  missing  in  all  directions,  entrapped  by  the  '"  foreign 


AN  OPEN  DOOR :   A  LITTLE  STRENGTH     147 

devils."  The  weather  was  intensely  hot,  which  always 
predisposes  to  excitable  foregatherings.  Children  had  dis- 
appeared, so  the  people  believed — twenty-four  at  least  had 
fallen  a  prey  to  the  dreaded  foreigners.  And  on  their 
premises,  as  was  well  known,  vast  stores  of  treasures  were 
accumulated  !  Boat-loads  of  goods  had  been  brought  in  only 
a  few  days  previously.^  Courage  !  Avenge  our  wrongs  I 
Attack — destroy  !     Much  plunder  shall  be  ours. 

Forty-eight  hours  later,  in  a  boat  nearing  Chin-kiang, 
the  letter  quoted  above  was  bravely  finished. 

"  We  have  had  to  flee  from  Yang-chow,"  Miss  Blatchley  con- 
tinued to  Mrs.  Berger.  "  I  cannot  stop  now  to  describe  the  last 
few  days,  if  indeed  they  are  describable — for  we  must  send  off  our 
notes,  such  as  we  have  ready.  Next  mail  must  bring  further 
particulars.  Meanwhile  you  will  join  us  in  praise  to  God  for 
saving  our  lives  and  limbs,  and  our  most  valuable  property.  The 
rioters  sacked  every  room  excepting  mine,  in  which  were  all  our 
most  important  papers  and  the  bulk  of  our  money — a  consider- 
able sum,  three  hundred  dollars,  having  reached  us  from  Chin- 
kiang  only  an  hour  before  the  breaking  into  the  house. 

"  Poor  Mr.  Reid  is  the  most  severely  hurt  of  all ;  a  brick-bat 
struck  his  eye  while  he  was  standing  ready  to  catch  Mrs.  Taylor 
and  me — as  we  had  to  escape  for  our  lives  by  jumping  from  the 
verandah  roof  over  the  front  of  the  reception  hall.  Dear  Mrs. 
Taylor  hurt  her  leg  very  much.  I,  whose  fall  was  not  broken  (as 
Mr.  Reid  was  wounded,  and  so  disabled  from  helping  me),  came 
down  on  my  back  on  the  stones,  and  it  is  only  by  God's  great 
loving-kindness  that  I  have  not  a  broken  spine  or  skull.  I  have 
only  a  wound  on  my  arm,  and  that  the  left  arm.  It  is  getting 
very  painful,  as  it  is  ulcerating,  and  I  am  tolerably  bruised  all 
over  ;  but  there  is  so  much  to  be  thankful  for  that  this  seems  as 
nothing,  except  that  it  makes  one  rather  awkward,  for  I  feel  so 
stiff.  We  have  not  had  time  yet  to  change  our  blood-stained 
clothes." 

And  Mrs.  Taylor  wrote  to  the  same  beloved  friend : 

1  But  for  the  difficulties  at  Chin-kiang  there  never  would  have  been, 
humanly  speaking,  a  Yang-chow  riot.  Arriving  there  with  a  large  quantity 
of  goods  and  finding  no  house  available,  Mr.  and  Mrs,  Rudland  and  Miss 
Desgraz  had  come  on  to  Yang-chow  early  in  August.  Thus  three  additional 
foreigners,  and  all  the  paraphernalia  needed  for  a  printing-press  and  a 
second  household,  had  been  crowded  into  Mr.  Taylor's  premises.  No 
wonder  the  Yang-chow  people  were  tempted  with  thoughts  of  plunder  ! 


148         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

I  do  not  know  whether  I  shall  be  able  to  give  you  much  idea, 
by  this  opportunity,  of  the  perils  through  which  we  have  passed 
within  the  last  forty-eight  hours.  Our  God  has  brought  us 
through  :  may  it  be  to  hve  henceforth  more  fully  to  His  praise  and 
glory.  We  have  had,  so  to  speak,  another  typhoon — ^not  of  so 
long  duration  as  the  literal  one  we  experienced  nearly  two  years 
ago,  but  at  least  equally  dangerous  to  our  Uves,  and  more  terrible 
while  it  lasted.  ...  I  beHeve  God  will  bring  His  own  glory  out 
of  this  ;  and  I  hope  it  will  tend  to  the  furtherance  of  the 
Gospel.  .  .  . — Yours  in  a  present  Saviour,  

"A  present  Saviour"  —  how  little  could  the  rioters 
understand  the  secret  of  their  calmness  and  strength ! 
Awed  by  something,  they  knew  not  what,  the  infuriated  mob 
had  been  restrained  from  the  worst  excesses.  Murder, 
though  intended,  had  been  averted  again  and  again ;  and 
both  Mr.  Taylor,  exposed  to  all  the  fury  of  the  populace  on 
his  way  to  seek  help  of  the  authorities,  and  those  he  had  to 
leave,  who  faced  the  perils  of  attack  and  fire  in  their  besieged 
dwelHng,  were  ahke  protected  by  the  wonder-working  hand 
of  God. 

But  they  were  hours  of  anguish — anguish  for  the  mother 
as  she  gathered  her  children  and  the  women  of  the  party  in 
the  upper  room  that  seemed  most  sheltered ;  anguish  for 
the  father,  detained  at  a  distance,  hearing  from  the  Man- 
darin's ya-men  the  yells  of  the  rioters  bent  on  destruction. 

"  After  they  were  gone  (Mr.  Taylor  and  Mr.  Duncan)  we 
feebler  ones  could  do  nothing,"  wrote  Mrs.  Taylor,  "  assembled 
in  my  room  to  plead  for  God's  protection,  both  for  ourselves  and 
for  those  who  faced  the  fury  of  the  storm  without.  Mr.  Rudland 
and  Mr.  Reid  were  doing  their  best  to  keep  the  crowd  from  enter- 
ing our  premises.  I  do  not  know  that  the  Throne  of  Grace  ever 
seemed  so  near  to  me  as  that  night  and  the  following  morning. 
Not  that  the  closeness  of  communion  with  God  was  greater  than 
at  any  other  time  ;  but  I  felt  able  in  an  especial  manner  to  lay 
hold  of  God's  strength.  And  earnestly  did  we  plead  ^vith  Him  to 
raise  as  it  were  a  wall  of  fire  around  my  dear  husband  and  Mr. 
Duncan,  and  to  give  His  angels  to  encamp  round  about  them. 
I  specially  needed  His  sustaining  grace  to  keep  me  quiet  and  calm 
and  to  give  me  soundness  of  judgment,  that  no  rash  step  might 
be  taken,  for  naturally  all  looked  to  me  to  say  what  was  to  be 
done." 


AN  OPEN  DOOR :   A  LITTLE  STRENGTH     149 

Outwardly  as  calm  as  if  there  were  no  danger,i  Mrs. 
Taylor  went  through  those  terrible  hours,  more  than  once 
saving  the  life  of  a  fellow-worker  by  her  presence  of  mind 
and  perfect  command  of  the  language, 2  her  heart,  mean- 
while, torn  with  anxiety  for  the  loved  one  it  seemed  more 
than  likely  they  might  never  see  again. 

"  But  for  the  protection  afforded  us  by  the  darkness,"  Mr. 
Taylor  wrote  of  that  desperate  effort  to  summon  aid,  "  we  should 
scarcely  have  reached  the  ya-men  alive.  Alarmed  by  the  yells 
of  the  people  the  gate-keepers  were  just  closing  the  doors  as  we 
approached,  but  the  momentary  delay  gave  time  for  the  crowd 
to  close  in  upon  us  :  the  as  yet  unbarred  gates  gave  way  to  the 
pressure,  and  we  were  precipitated  into  the  entrance  haU.  Had 
the  gates  been  barred,  I  am  convinced  that  they  would  not  have 
been  opened  for  us,  and  we  should  have  been  torn  to  pieces  by 
the  enraged  mob. 

"  Once  in  the  ya-men,  we  rushed  into  the  judgment  hall, 
cr3dng  *  Kiu-ming !  Kiu-ming ! '  (save  life  !  save  Hfe  !),  a  cry  the 
Chinese  Mandarin  is  bound  to  attend  to  at  any  hour  of  the  day  or 
night. 

"  We  were  taken  to  the  room  of  the  Chief  Secretary,  and  kept 
waiting  three-quarters  of  an  hour  before  we  had  an  audience  with 
the  Prefect,  all  the  time  hearing  the  yells  of  the  mob  a  mile  or 
more  off,  destroying,  for  aught  we  knew,  not  only  the  property, 
but  possibly  the  Hves  of  those  so  dear  to  us.  And  at  last  when 
we  did  get  an  audience,  it  was  almost  more  than  we  could  bear 
with  composure  to  be  asked  as  to  what  we  really  did  with  the 
babies  ;  whether  it  was  true  we  had  bought  them,  and  how  many  ; 
what  was  the  cause  of  all  this  rioting  ?  etc.,  etc. 

"  At  last  I  told  His  Excellency  that  the  real  cause  of  all  the 
trouble  was  his  own  neglect  in  not  taking  measures  when  the 
matter  was  small  and  manageable  ;  that  I  must  now  request  him 
first  to  take  steps  to  repress  the  riot  and  save  any  of  our  friends 
who  might  still  be  aUve,  and  afterwards  make  such  inquiries  as 
he  might  wish,  or  I  would  not  answer  for  the  result. 

"  '  Ah,'  said  he, '  very  true,  very  true  !     First  quiet  the  people, 

1  "  In  the  Yang-chow  riot,"  Mr,  Taylor  wrote  some  years  later,  "  when 
she  and  the  little  children  were  in  danger  of  being  massacred  at  any 
moment,  she  was  as  calm  as  in  her  own  parlour  in  London  :  and  I  am  quite 
certain  that  if  she  could  have  altered  any  of  the  circumstances  she  would 
not  have  done  it,  so  satisfied  was  she  at  all  times  that  God's  ordering  was 
best." 

2  Mr.  Judd  recalls  that  it  was  "  her  calmness  and  the  fact  that  she 
spoke  such  beautiful  Chinese  "  that  disarmed  the  man  whose  band  she 
stayed  in  a  murderous  attack  on  Mr.  Rudland. 


150         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

and  then  inquire.  Sit  still,  and  I  will  go  to  see  what  can  be 
done.' 

"  He  went  out  telling  us  to  remain,  as  the  only  chance  of  his 
effecting  anything  depended  on  our  keeping  out  of  sight ;  for  by 
this  time  the  number  of  rioters  amounted  to  eight  or  ten  thousand. 
The  natives  estimated  them  at  twenty  thousand. 

"  We  were  kept  in  this  torture  of  suspense  for  two  hours,  when 
the  Prefect  returned  with  the  Ts'ao-fu  (Governor  of  the  military 
forces  of  the  city,  some  three  thousand  men)  and  told  us  that  all 
was  quiet ;  that  the  Ts'ao-fu  himself,  the  Sheo-pe  (Captain  of  the 
soldiers  who  guard  the  gates),  and  two  local  Mandarins  had  been 
to  the  scene  of  the  disturbance  ;  that  they  had  seized  several  of 
those  who  were  plundering  the  premises,  and  would  have  them 
punished.  He  then  sent  for  chairs,  and  we  returned  under 
escort.  On  the  way  back  we  were  told  that  all  the  foreigners  we 
had  left  were  killed.  We  had  to  cry  to  God  to  support  us, 
though  we  hoped  this  might  prove  exaggerated  or  untrue. 

"  When  we  reached  the  house,  the  scene  was  such  as  baffled 
description.  Here,  a  pile  of  half -burned  reeds  showed  where  one 
of  the  attempts  to  fire  the  premises  had  been  made  ;  there,  debris 
of  a  broken-down  wall  was  lying  ;  and  strewn  about  everywhere 
were  the  remains  of  boxes  and  furniture,  scattered  papers  and 
letters,  broken  work-boxes,  writing-desks,  dressing-cases,  and 
surgical  instrument  cases,  smouldering  remains  of  valuable 
books,  etc. — but  no  trace  of  inhabitants  within." 

After  a  long  and  agonising  search  it  was  with  unspeakable 
thankfulness  he  learned  that  some  at  any  rate  of  the  party 
were  hiding  in  a  neighbour's  house.  The  darkness  of  the 
night  had  favoured  their  escape  from  their  own  burning 
premises.  Taken  from  one  room  to  another  as  the  danger 
of  discovery  increased,  they  had  finally  been  left  without  a 
glimmer  of  light  in  the  innermost  apartments. 

"  Mr.  Reid  lay  groaning  with  pain,"  wrote  Miss  Blatchley, 
*'  the  poor  tired  children  wanted  to  sleep  and  we  dared  not  let 
them,  as  at  any  moment  we  might  have  to  flee  again.  Mrs. 
Taylor  was  almost  fainting  from  loss  of  blood  ;  and  I  now  found 
that  my  arm  was  bleeding  from  a  bad  cut,  and  so  painful  that  I 
could  not  move  it,  while  most  of  us  were  stiff  and  sore  with 
bruises." 

Then  it  was  that  suspense  about  Mr.  Taylor  was  hardest 
to  bear.  In  the  darkness  and  silence,  the  uncertainty  as  to 
his  fate  as  well  as  their  own  was  terrible. 


AN  OPEN  DOOR:   A  LITTLE  STRENGTH      151 

*'  I  cannot  attempt  to  describe  to  you  our  feelings,"  Mrs. 
Taylor  continued  to  Mrs.  Berger.  "  How  my  dear  husband  and 
Mr.  Duncan  were  faring  or  had  fared  we  could  not  tell.  Where 
they  were,  why  they  had  not  yet  returned,  whether  we  ourselves 
would  live  till  morning,  or  what  would  become  of  us  we  knew 
not,  .  .  .  But  God  was  our  stay,  and  He  forsook  us  not.  This 
confidence  He  gave  me,  that  He  would  surely  work  good  for 
China  out  of  our  deep  distress. 

"  At  one  time  we  were  told  that  soldiers  had  arrived  from  the 
Governor  and  were  driving  the  rioters  away,  but  still  no  tidings 
of  my  husband  !  Poor  Mr.  Reid  was  laid  on  the  floor  of  an  inner 
room,  and  nurse  with  baby  {who  happily  slept)  and  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Rudland  were  there  too.  The  older  children  were  with  Miss 
Desgraz,  Miss  Blatchley,  and  myself  in  the  outer  room.  We  did 
our  best  to  keep  them  quiet  and  awake,  for  we  did  not  know  at 
what  moment  we  might  have  to  flee  again. 

"  '  Mamma,'  said  one  of  them,  '  where  shall  we  sleep  to-night 
as  they  have  burned  up  our  bed  ?  ' 

"  I  assured  him  that  God  would  give  them  somewhere  to  sleep, 
little  thinking  it  would  be — that  very  night — in  their  own 
nursery. 

"  At  last,  after  a  much  shorter  time  than  it  appeared  to  us, 
we  heard  my  dear  husband's  voice  outside  the  door,  which  had 
been  barred  for  greater  safety.  He  had  had  difficulty  in  finding 
us,  and  on  his  way  back  from  the  ya-men  had  heard  various 
reports  as  to  what  had  happened  during  his  long  detention. 
Some  said  we  were  all  killed,  others  that  we  had  fled,  and  his 
heart  sickened  on  nearing  the  house  as  he  distinguished  a  smell 
that  proved  to  be  fur-lined  garments  burning.  ...  He  told  us 
that  the  rioters  had  all  been  driven  out,  and  he  thought  we  might 
venture  back  to  our  own  rooms  (which  had  not  been  burned 
down)  ...  for  there  would  be  a  guard  around  the  premises. 
How  our  hearts  went  up  to  God  in  thanksgiving  that  He  had 
spared  us  to  each  other  !  .  .  .  A  short  time  before  we  heard  my 
husband's  voice,  I  had  felt  encouraged  to  hope  that  help  was  at 
hand,  by  the  fact  that  my  own  strength  was  rapidly  ebbing  away 
from  loss  of  blood.  I  was  anxious  not  to  let  any  one  know  how 
much  I  was  hurt,  as  I  felt  it  would  alarm  them,  and  it  seemed 
most  important  that  all  should  keep  calm. 

"  It  was  after  midnight  when  we  returned.  My  heart  was  too 
full  for  me  to  pay  much  heed  to  the  scene  of  ruin  through  which 
we  passed,  but  at  the  foot  of  the  stairs  my  eye  feU  on  a  bead  mat 
worked  for  me  by  our  httle  Gracie  before  leaving  England.  The 
sight  of  it  at  that  moment  seemed  to  speak  of  our  Father's  love 
and  tenderness  in  a  way  that  perhaps  it  would  be  difficult  for 


152         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

another  to  understand."  (It  was  a  year  that  very  day  since  their 
little  daughter  had  been  taken  Home  from  the  temple  at  Pen- 
shan.)  "  I  asked  some  one  to  pick  it  up  and  give  it  to  me.  We 
found  the  floor  of  my  room  strewn  with  clothes,  etc.,  which  had 
been  turned  out  of  boxes  in  the  search  for  gold  and  silver.  The 
leaves  of  my  poor  Bible,  which  I  had  been  unable  to  take  with  me, 
were  scattered  about  in  every  direction.  Kind,  loving  hands 
collected  them  for  me.  Some,  I  was  told,  were  found  downstairs, 
and  not  a  leaf  is  missing. 

"  For  the  remainder  of  the  night  we  were  in  quiet,  though  for 
some  of  us  there  was  no  sleep.  Early  in  the  morning  the  guard 
retired,  and  as  there  was  no  relay  the  people  began  to  come  in 
again  to  plunder,  for  now  there  were  many  entrances.  Again  my 
husband  had  to  go  to  the  ya-men,  and  again  commenced  a  season 
of  anxiety  similar  to  though  in  some  respects  more  trying  than 
the  night  before.  Once  more  my  room  became  our  sanctuary 
.  .  .  till,  just  when  it  seemed  as  if  in  another  minute  the  crowd 
would  be  upstairs,  the  alarm  was  given  that  the  Mandarin  had 
come,  and  his  soldiery  soon  dispersed  the  people. 

"  In  the  afternoon  of  that  day  we  left  the  city  .  .  .  under  an 
escort  of  soldiers  to  see  us  safely  to  the  Yangtze.  I  have  been 
much  struck  by  the  way  in  which  God  used  these  men — ^who 
would  have  been  quite  as  ready  to  take  our  lives  as  to  protect 
them — for  His  people's  help.  As  we  passed  out  of  the  city  in 
chairs,  Miss  Blatchley  heard  some  of  the  people  say  derisively, 
'  Come  again  !     Come  again  !  ' 

"  '  Yes,'  I  thought,  *  God  will  bring  us  back  again,  little  as  you 
expect  it.'  " 


CHAPTER  XI 

THE   DARKEST  HOUR 
1868-1869.     Aet.  36-37. 

It  was  thankfulness  more  than  anything  else  that  filled  the 
hearts  of  that  little  company,  wounded  and  suffering  as  the}' 
were,  on  the  boats  that  took  them  to  Chin-kiang.  The 
Mandarins  had  insisted  on  their  leaving  for  a  time,  that  the 
house  might  be  repaired  and  the  people  quietened,  and  with 
no  thought  of  compensation,  still  less  of  revenge,  the  mission- 
aries looked  forward  to  a  speedy  return.  Homeless  and 
despoiled  of  almost  everything,  they  rejoiced  in  having  been 
counted  worthy  to  suffer  "  for  the  sake  of  the  Name,"  and 
their  hearts  were  cheered  as  they  recalled  the  protecting 
care  of  God.  Had  not  their  lives  been  spared  as  by  a 
miracle  ?  Were  not  the  children  well  and  happy  ?  And 
even  the  money  and  more  important  Mission  papers  were 
safe,  though  the  room  in  which  they  lay  had  been  open  to  the 
rioters. 

Upon  reaching  Chin-kiang,  homeless  and  in  urgent  need 
of  succour,  great  was  the  kindness  received  from  the  foreign 
residents.  Though  the  community  was  small,  they  managed 
to  put  up  all  the  refugees,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  taking  a  room 
on  the  ground  floor  which,  being  damp,  they  considered 
undesirable  for  others.  Here,  in  the  midst  of  debris  from  the 
riot  they  set  to  work  at  once  on  the  business  and  correspond- 
ence of  the  Mission,  having  nine  or  ten  stations  and  many 
fellow-workers  to  think  of  as  well  as  the  party  with  them. 

"  How  you  are,  where  you  are,  and  in  what  circumstances, 
we  know  not !  "  wrote  Mr.  McCarthy  from  Hang-chow.     "  We 

153 


154         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

can  only  seek  to  lay  hold  on  the  hving  God,  in  believing  prayer, 
and  commit  you  all  to  His  safe  keeping.  How  precious  is  His 
Word  now,  how  powerful,  how  suitable  !  May  you  indeed  find 
it  so.  Oh,  may  you  find  that  '  out  of  the  eater  came  forth  meat, 
and  out  of  the  strong,  sweetness.'  The  Lord  will  not  forsake 
you  ;  He  cannot.  .  .  .  Let  nothing  turn  us  from  His  purpose 
to  bless  China  through  our  feeble  means.  ...  *  Who  is  sufficient 
for  these  things  ?  '  No  one  but  He  Who  has  said,  '  Lo,  I  an: 
with  you  alway.'  In  His  Name,  for  His  sake,  take  courage  ;  the 
darkest  hour  is  just  before  the  dawn." 

It  was  a  dark  hour  indeed  that  was  coming  upon  the 
leader  of  the  Mission,  a  period  so  painful  in  some  of  its 
aspects  that  even  the  sufferings  of  the  riot  seemed  little  in 
comparison.  To  begin  with,  the  troubles  at  Yang-chow 
were  made  public  in  a  way  Mr.  Taylor  would  least  have 
desired.  A  resident  at  Chin-kiang,  with  the  kindest  inten- 
tions, wrote  stirring  accounts  to  the  Shanghai  papers,  and 
public  feeling  demanded  that  action,  prompt  and  decisive, 
should  be  taken  by  the  British  authorities.  This  brought 
the  Consul-General,  Mr.  M.  H.  Medhurst,  and  later  on  the 
Ambassador  himself.  Sir  Rutherford  Alcock,  into  the 
matter.  A  gunboat  was  sent  up  to  Chin-kiang,  and  there 
was  much  coming  and  going  of  British  officers  and  blue- 
jackets. All  this  so  impressed  the  authorities,  that  they 
seemed  about  to  recognise  their  treaty  obligations  and 
yield  to  the  not  unreasonable  demands  of  Mr.  Medhurst, 
when — ^the  gunboat  going  down-river  on  account  of  the  ill- 
ness of  her  commander — they  changed  their  tactics  and 
became  openly  overbearing.  Long  and  difficult  negotiations 
were  the  result,  and  it  was  not  until  a  flotilla  of  gunboats 
anchored  off  Nanking,  and  war  seemed  imminent,  that  the 
Viceroy  gave  way  and  put  matters  right. 

These  proceedings,  it  need  hardly  be  said,  caused  grave 
concern  to  Mr.  Taylor.  While  grateful  for  Mr.  Medhurst's 
desire  to  help,  how  much  rather  would  he  have  gone  back 
at  his  own  risk  to  live  down  unfriendliness  and  opposition 
by  patient  continuance  in  well-doing.  Detained  in  Chin- 
kiang  week  after  week,  he  saw  the  difficulty  grow  only  more 
serious,  and  meanwhile  was  faced  with  distressing  complica- 
tions of  another  sort  in  his  own  circle.     For  the  painful 


THE  DARKEST  HOUR  155 

spirit  persisted  in  by  certain  members  of  the  Mission  had 
reached  a  chmax.  A  Httle  group  of  five,  having  gone  back 
from  its  principles,  after  causing  endless  trouble,  were  them- 
selves unhappy  in  association  with  it.  One  of  these  had  now 
to  be  dismissed  for  conduct  "  utterly  inconsistent  with  the 
position  of  a  Christian  missionary."^  For  more  than  two 
years  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  had  done  everything  in  their 
power  to  help  this  particular  brother  and  his  wife  to  live  and 
work  happily  in  the  Mission.  The  suffering  they  had 
endured  from  discourtesy,  disloyalty,  and  untrustworthiness 
could  never  be  told,  and  not  the  least  part  of  it  was  to  see 
the  harmful  influence  exerted  upon  others.  In  severing 
their  connection  with  the  C.I.M.  Mr.  Taylor  realised  that  he 
might  be  opening  the  door  for  the  retirement  of  three  ladies 
who  from  the  first  had  been  their  confidantes — and  so  it 
proved,  to  the  relief  of  all  who  had  been  associated  with 
them,  and  who  had  marvelled  at  Mr.  Taylor's  patience  in 
bearing  so  long.^  But  the  sorrow  of  his  heart  was  very  real 
over  the  loss  of  these  workers,  and  he  was  conscious  of  the 
questions  to  which  it  must  give  rise  among  the  friends  of 
the  Mission  at  home. 

A  letter  to  Mr.  Berger  written  even  before  the  Yang-chow 
riot  showed  how  the  true  character  of  the  work  was  more 
and  more  unfolding  itself  to  his  mind.  With  Mrs.  Taylor 
away  in  Shanghai,  bearing  so  bravely  her  share  of  the 
burdens,  it  had  meant  much  to  him  when  he  wrote  (July  3)  : 

It  is  most  important  that  married  missionaries  should  be 
double  missionaries — not  half  or  a  quarter  or  eight-part  mis- 
sionaries.    Might  we  not  with  advantage  say  to  our  candidates : 

1  Quoted  from  Mr.  Taylor's  letter  of  dismissal,  September  12,  1868  : 
a  letter  that  cost  him  untold  sorrow,  and  was  only  written  "  after  many 
weeks  of  anxious,  prayerful  thought." 

2  Writing  of  a  missionary  candidate  at  home  who  had  manifestly  mis- 
taken his  calling,  Mrs,  Taylor  said  : 

"  One  thing  seems  very  clear  from  Mr.  M.'s  letter,  namely,  that  he  is 
not  likely  to  be  one  who  would  work  happily  in  the  C.I.M,  And  oh,  we 
will  be  thankful  to  God  when  He  makes  this  plain  in  England,  and  thus 
prevents  persons  from  coming  out  who  might  work  sorrow  in  our  midst. 
Not  that  I  would  repine  at  the  past  or  the  present.  The  Lord  was  en- 
treated to  guide  about  those  who  should  come  out,  and  if  He  has  suffered 
some  to  come  who  have  caused  us  untold  sorrow,  may  we  not  regard  this  as 
part  of  the  storms  that  are  to  make  our  young  Mission  strike  its  roots 
deeper  into  the  soil  ?  " 


156         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

"  Our  work  is  a  peculiar  one.  We  aim  at  the  interior,  where 
the  whole  of  your  society  will  be  Chinese.  If  you  wish  for 
luxury  and  freedom  from  care  .  ,  .  do  not  join  us.  Unless  you 
intend  your  wife  to  be  a  true  missionary,  not  merely  a  wife, 
home-maker,  and  friend,  do  not  join  us.  She  must  be  able  to 
read  and  be  master  of  at  least  one  Gospel  in  colloquial  Chinese 
before  you  marry.  A  person  of  ordinary  ability  may  accomphsh 
this  in  six  months,  but  if  she  needs  longer  there  is  the  more  reason 
to  wait  until  she  has  reached  this  point  before  you  marry.  She 
must  be  prepared  to  be  happy  among  the  Chinese  when  the 
duties  of  your  caUing  require,  as  they  often  will,  your  temporary 
absence  from  home.  You,  too,  must  master  the  initial  difficulties 
of  the  language  and  open  up  a  station,  if  none  be  allotted  to  you, 
before  you  marry.  With  dihgence  and  God's  blessing  you  may 
hope  to  do  this  in  a  year  or  so.  If  these  conditions  seem  too  hard, 
these  sacrifices  too  great  to  make  for  perishing  China,  do  not 
join  our  Mission.  These  are  small  things  to  some  of  the  crosses 
you  may  be  permitted  to  bear  for  your  dear  Master  !  " 

China  is  not  to  be  won  for  Christ  by  self-seeking,  ease-loving 
men  and  women.  Those  not  prepared  for  labour,  self-denial, 
and  many  discouragements  will  be  poor  helpers  in  the  work. 
In  short,  the  men  and  women  we  need  are  those  who  will  put 
Jesus,  China,  souls  first  and  foremost  in  everything  and  at  aU 
times  :  Hfe  itself  must  be  secondary — nay,  even  those  more 
precious  than  Hfe.  Of  such  men,  of  such  women,  do  not  fear 
to  send  us  too  many.    Their  price  is  far  above  rubies. 

The  riot  and  all  that  grew  out  of  it  did  but  emphasise 
these  considerations  and  deepen  Mr.  Taylor's  thankfulness 
for  many  of  the  fellow- workers  already  given  him.  He 
rejoiced  in  the  devotion  to  Christ  which  had  led  them  to  cast 
in  their  lot  with  such  a  Mission  ;  in  their  love  for  the  Chinese 
and  willingness  to  live  in  close  touch  with  them,  and  in  the 
practical  way  they  were  adapting  themselves  to  their  sur- 
roundings. It  could  not  but  be  obvious  to  him,  as  it  was  to 
them,  how  helpful  Mrs.  Taylor's  quiet,  unconscious  influence 
was  in  this  direction.  Happy  the  younger  workers  like  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Judd — first  to  volunteer  for  Yang-chow  after  the 
riot — who  on  their  arrival  in  China  had  early  been  moulded 
by  her  strong  though  gracious  personality. 

"How  impressed  I  was,"  recalled  Mr.  Judd  in  this  connec- 
tion, "with  her  calm,  holy,  happy  appearance,  as  well  as  her 
Christian  carriage !    She,  with  Mr.  McCarthy  and  a  native  helper. 


THE  DARKEST  HOUR  157 

had  come  seven  days'  journey  from  Hang-chow  to  meet  our 
party.  She  gave  us  the  warmest  welcome  and  every  assistance 
possible,  but  it  was  evident  that  she  had  no  mercy  on  fastidious- 
ness as  to  food  or  any  other  matters.  As  soon  as  we  were  settled 
on  our  boats  (in  Chinese  dress,  of  course)  dinner  was  served,  and 
Mrs.  Taylor  poHtely  handed  me  a  pair  of  chopsticks  and  a  basin 
containing  soup  with  some  sort  of  Httle  turn-overs  floating  in  it. 

"  '  Will  you  take  puppy-dumplings,  Mr.  Judd  ?  '  she  said 
with  a  smile. 

"  Immediately,  all  I  had  heard  about  the  Chinese  eating 
dogs,  etc.,  rushed  into  my  mind.  But  I  dare  not  question  the 
contents  of  a  dish  handed  me  by  such  a  lady  !  Making  the  best 
of  it,  therefore,  I  began  to  eat — and  found  nothing  worse  than 
Uttle  bits  of  pork  nicely  covered  with  dough." 

Mrs.  Judd  also,  who  was  scarcely  more  than  a  bride,  had 
reason  to  remember  that  journey.  Dismayed  she  may  well 
have  been  to  see,  as  night  drew  on,  cockroaches  creeping  out 
of  crevices  in  the  boat !  She  had  always  had  a  horror  of 
these  creatures,  and  felt  she  could  not  endure  to  have  them 
crawling  over  her  in  the  night. 

"Oh,  Mrs.  Taylor,"  she  exclaimed,  "  I  really  cannot  go 
to  bed  with  all  these  cockroaches  about !  " 

With  another  new  arrival  she  prepared  a  light  by  which 
to  sit  up  all  night,  keeping  watch  against  their  unwelcome 
visitors.     But  Mrs.  Taylor  quietly  said  : 

"  Dear  child,  if  God  spares  you  to  work  in  China,  you 
will  have  many  nights  like  this,  and  you  will  not  be  able  to 
afford  to  lose  your  sleep.  Can  you  not  lie  down  quietly,  and 
trust  Him  to  keep  you  ?     I  should  advise  you  to." 

Ashamed,  and  longing  for  such  control  over  her  feelings, 
the  young  missionary  watched  Mrs.  Taylor  go  to  rest,  and 
after  a  real  conflict  did  the  same  and  had  a  good  night's  sleep. 

"  This  may  seem  a  trivial  circumstance,"  she  recalled  long 
after,  "  but  many  a  night  when  threatened  by  sterner  foes  and 
far  greater  dangers,  I  looked  back  on  that  simple  lesson  of  trust 
and  was  strengthened." 

Mrs.  Taylor's  one  desire  now,  in  spite  of  all  that  had 
happened  at  Yang-chow  and  her  own  immediate  expecta- 
tions, was  to  return  to  that  city  and  win  a  way  to  darkened 
hearts  for  the  saving  love  of  Christ.     Such  a  development 


158        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

seemed  very  improbable,  for  Mr.  Medhurst  was  involved  in 
what  looked  like  endless  difficulties.  Even  the  premises  in 
Chin-kiang  rented  weeks  before  the  riot  could  not  be  obtained, 
and  the  C.I.M.  party  had  to  crowd  into  two  little  foreign 
houses  in  the  Settlement  for  which  a  high  rental  was  de- 
manded. All  September  and  October  the  weary  negotia- 
tions went  on,  until  finally  in  November,  Sir  Rutherford 
Alcock  sent  five  gunboats  up  the  river  to  Nanking, 

Mr.  Taylor  all  the  while,  in  spite  of  a  suffering  illness,  was 
planning  and  attempting  fresh  efforts  for  the  evangelisation 
of  districts  yet  unreached.  His  certainly  was  no  ease-loving 
spirit.  As  soon  as  strength  permitted  he  was  away  on  a 
pioneering  journey,  with  Williamson  as  his  companion,  to 
Tsing-kiang-pu,  a  city  a  hundred  miles  north  of  Yang-chow, 
which  he  hoped  might  form  a  base  from  which  to  reach  the 
northern  provinces.  Honan  was  on  his  heart,  and  distant 
Shan-si,  and  at  the  same  time  he  was  meditating  advance 
toward  western  China.  His  old  friend  Mr.  Wylie  had  just 
returned  from  an  extensive  journey  in  the  interests  of  the 
Bible  Society,  and,  eager  to  learn  all  he  could  of  conditions 
in  the  interior,  Mr.  Taylor  had  gone  down  to  Shanghai  to  see 
him.  All  that  he  heard  of  the  great  province  of  Sze-chwan, 
in  which  Mr.  WyUe  had  been  severely  handled,  made  him 
long  to  go  himself  without  delay  to  commence  more  per- 
manent work.^  Nothing  deterred  by  the  Yang-chow  diffi- 
culties, the  same  spirit  was  animating  many  of  the  members 
of  the  Mission,  and  Mr.  Meadows  had  left  his  home  and  work 
to  others  that  he  might  lead  an  advance  into  the  first  inland 
province  westward  from  Chin-kiang — An-hwei  with  its 
twenty  millions,  among  whom  there  was  not  a  single 
Protestant  missionary.  ^ 

All  this  increased  the  thankfulness  with  which  the  news 

1  In  February  1869  Miss  Faulding  wrote  to  her  mother  :  "  Mr.  Taylor 
longs  to  go  forward  now  more  than  ever,  and  is  hoping  that  the  end  of  this 
year  may  find  him  in  Sze-chwan." 

8  "  Many  of  our  number  are  much  stirred  up  to  press  into  the  interior," 
Mr.  Taylor  wrote  from  Chin-kiang  about  the  middle  of  September,  "  and 
our  recent  disasters,  if  such  I  may  call  them,  only  make  us  the  more  deter- 
mined to  go  on,  leaning  on  the  Almighty  Power  of  our  Captain.  Pray  for 
us.  We  need  much  grace.  You  cannot  conceive  the  many  daily  calls 
there  are  for  patience,  for  forbearance,  for  tact  in  dealing  with  the  many 
cases  of  difficulty,  of  misunderstanding  that  arise  among  so  many  persons 


THE  DARKEST  HOUR  159 

was  at  last  received  of  an  amicable  settlement  of  the  Yang- 
chow  matter.  Patience  and  determination  had  conquered — 
or  was  it  the  unceasing  prayer  that  had  reinforced  Mr. 
Medhurst's  efforts  ?  His  reasonable  demands  were  all  con- 
ceded, even  to  the  placing  of  a  stone  tablet  at  the  entrance 
to  the  Yang-chow  house,  stating  that  the  foreigners  were 
there  with  the  full  recognition  of  the  authorities.  Quite  a 
function  was  arranged  to  reinstate  the  party ;  and  on 
November  18  Mr.  Taylor  was  able  to  write  from  Yang-chow 
once  more,  with  a  grateful  heart,  "  the  result  of  this  case  will 
probably  be  greatly  to  facilitate  work  in  the  interior.** 

But  it  was  the  family  life  and  friendly  spirit  of  the 
missionaries  that  disarmed  suspicion  and  gradually  won  its 
way  among  the  people.  They  could  not  but  be  touched 
when  the  children  were  brought  back  after  all  that  had  taken 
place,  and  when  it  appeared  that  Mrs.  Taylor  had  not 
hesitated  to  return  under  conditions  which  made  peace  and 
quietness  specially  desirable. 

"  In  this  again,"  she  wrote  to  her  beloved  friend  at  Saint 
Hill,  "  God  has  given  me  the  desire  of  my  heart.  For  I  felt  that 
if  safety  to  my  infant  permitted,  I  would  rather  it  were  bom  in 
this  city,  in  this  house,  in  this  very  room  than  in  any  other  place 
— your  own  beautiful  home  in  which  I  have  been  so  tenderly 
cared  for,  the  comforts  and  luxuries  of  which  I  know  well  how 
to  appreciate,  not  excepted." 

So  it  was  there  the  happy  event  took  place,  calling  forth 
the  congratulations  of  their  Chinese  neighbours  on  the 
arrival  of  a  fourth  son  !  This  in  itself  could  not  fail  to  make 
a  favourable  impression,  as  did  also  the  perfect  recovery  ol 
all  who  had  suffered  injury  in  the  riot.  The  landlord  of  the 
inn  (a  Mr.  P'eng)  and  two  others  w^ho  had  befriended  the 
missionaries  in  that  terrible  experience  were  by  this  time 
candidates  for  baptism  ;  and  when  before  the  end  of  the 
year  the  Chin-kiang  house  was  also  in  their  possession,  Mr. 

of  different  nationality  and  language  and  temperament.  Pray  the  Lord 
ever  to  give  me  the  single  eye,  the  clear  judgment,  the  wise  and  gentle 
manner,  the  patient  forbearing  spirit,  the  unwavering  purpose,  the  un- 
shaken faith,  the  Christ-like  love  that  are  needed  for  the  efficient  discharge 
of  my  duties.  And  ask  Him  to  send  us  sufficient  means  and  suitable 
helpers  for  the  great  work  which  we  have  as  yet  barely  commenced." 


i6o         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Taylor  might  well  write :  "  Once  again  we  raise  our  Ebenezei 
~*  Hitherto  hath  the  Lord  helped  us.'  " 

But  the  Yang-chow  difficulties  were  far  from  ended  with 
this  satisfactory  settlement.  "  The  devil's  growl,"  as  Mr. 
Spurgeon  called  it,  had  yet  to  come,  and  an  angry  growl  it 
was,  that  upset  not  a  few  friends  of  the  Mission.  For  the 
action  of  the  Consular  authorities  gave  rise  to  a  storm  of 
indignation  at  home.  Missionaries  were  making  trouble  as 
usual,  demanding  the  support  of  gunboats  in  their  ill-judged 
crusade  against  ancestral  worship.  The  country  would  be 
involved  in  war  before  the  Government  had  even  time  to 
consider  the  matter  !  It  seems  almost  incredible  as  one 
looks  back  upon  it,  that  so  much  misrepresentation  could 
have  found  its  way  into  the  daily  papers,  and  that  for  a 
period  of  four  or  five  months  Mr.  Taylor  and  his  doings 
could  so  largely  have  occupied  the  public  mind.  China,  of 
course,  was  farther  off  then  than  now,  and  there  was  far 
less  understanding  of  its  problems.  But,  even  so,  the 
attention  the  subject  evoked  and  the  prejudice  displayed 
were  extraordinary.  From  the  "  connected  narrative  "  in 
the  Times  of  December  i,  "  explaining  "  the  whole  situa- 
tion, to  the  discussion  in  the  House  of  Lords  on  March  9 — 
in  which,  after  a  heated  declamation,  the  Duke  of  Somerset 
urged  that  all  British  missionaries  should  be  recalled  from 
China — the  matter  seems  hardly  to  have  been  absent  from 
the  public  mind.  The  vigorous  attitude  enjoined  upon  the 
British  Representative  at  Peking  by  a  former  Government 
was  utterly  repudiated  now,  and  there  was  not  much  to 
choose  between  the  accusations  heaped  upon  the  Consular 
authorities  and  upon  the  missionaries.^    But  Mr.  Taylor  it 

1  In  a  long  letter  to  Mrs.  Berger,  explaining  all  the  circumstances 
that  attended  the  riot,  Mrs,  Taylor  said  (February  ii,  1869)  :  "  As  to  the 
harsh  judgings  of  the  world  or  the  more  painful  misunderstandings  of 
Christian  brethren,  I  generally  feel  that  the  best  plan  is  to  go  on  with  our 
work  and  leave  God  to  vindicate  our  cause.  But  it  is  right  that  you 
should  know  intimately  how  we  have  acted,  and  why.  I  would  suggest, 
however,  that  it  would  be  undesirable  to  print  the  fact  that  Mr.  Medhurst, 
and  through  him  Sir  Rutherford  Alcock,  took  up  the  matter  without 
application  from  us.  The  new  Ministry  at  home  censures  those  out  here 
for  the  policy  which  the  late  Ministry  enjoined  upon  them.  It  would  be 
ungenerous  and  ungrateful  were  we  to  render  their  position  still  more 
diflcult  by  throwing  all  the  onus,  as  it  were,  on  them. 


THE  DARKEST  HOUR  ibi 

was,  all  through,  who  had  brought  the  country  to  the  verge 
of  war  by  his  irresponsible  conduct.  Needless  to  say,  the 
brunt  of  all  this  fell  upon  Mr.  Berger. 

"  The  excitement,  indeed  I  may  almost  say  storm,  seems 
bursting  over  us  now,"  he  wrote  on  December  17.  "  The  Times 
is  very  severe,  and  incorrect  in  some  things.  Whether  to  reply 
to  the  false  statements  I  scarcely  know.  ...  At  present  the 
Yang-chow  outrage  is  the  all-absorbing  subject.  Our  letters 
to-day,  I  think,  number  from  twenty  to  thirty." 

December   31  :    The   Editor  is  so  unscrupulous  and 

unfair,  and  I  am  so  unable  to  say  how,  or  how  far,  you  called 
upon  the  Consul  in  the  matter,^  that  I  greatly  question  the 
wisdom  of  replying  at  all.  God  is  a  refuge  for  us,  "  A  very  present 
help  in  time  of  trouble."  Though  we  have  much  trial  and  per- 
plexity in  various  v/ays,  God  has  greatly  blessed  His  Word  to 
me,  so  that  my  joy  abounds  over  all  the  sorrows. 

January  13,  1869  :  It  rejoices  our  hearts  that  you  are  again 
at  Yang-chow.  The  late  riots  have  led  to  such  an  immense 
increase  of  correspondence  and  claims  upon  me,  that  I  must 
guard  against  breaking  down  entirely. 

January  28  :  Through  Christ,  I  am  kept  in  great  peace  and 
quiet  of  soul,  though  the  storm  has  raged  terribly  of  late. 
Gleams  of  brightness  are  not  withheld  ...  so  do  not  be  cast 
down,  dear  Brother.  Hope  in  God,  Who  will  never  leave  nor 
forsake  those  who  seek  to  please  Him. 

February  25  :  We  are  just  back  from  Bristol,  where  we 
spent  a  happy  and  profitable  week,  and  found  many  dear  friends 
who  remembered  and  inquired  most  affectionately  after  you 
and  Mrs.  Taylor.  The  sympathy  expressed  for  you  and  those 
with  you  in  the  late  trial  was  great  and  very  sweet ;  and  none 
spoke  more  warmly  of  you  than  dear  Mr.  Miiller.  .  .  . 

I  asked  for  his  opinion  respecting  the  appeal  to  the  British 

"  Perhaps  one  secret  of  our  matter  being  taken  up  so  warmly  was  that 
it  was  looked  upon  as  a  climax  to  a  series  of  provocations  which  the  English 
had  suffered  from  the  Chinese  ;  and  the  representatives  of  our  Government 
were,  I  believe,  not  sorry  to  have  an  opportunity  of,  and  good  ground  for, 
settling  off  a  number  of  '  old  counts.'  " 

Government  officials  and  merchants,  as  well  as  missionaries,  suffered 
in  the  same  way  at  this  time,  in  districts  as  widely  separated  as  Swatow, 
Formosa,  and  the  Yangtze  valley.  See  an  able  article  in  the  Scotsman  for 
April  12,  1869,  entitled  :   "  The  Late  Disturbances  in  China." 

1  The  only  appeal  of  any  kind  that  Mr.  Taylor  had  made  to  the  Consular 
authorities  had  been  a  verbal  message  on  August  22,  and  a  pencilled  note 
the  following  morning — when  the  riot  was  beginning  all  over  again  after 
that  awful  night  of  suspense  and  anguish — simply  informing  them  of  the 
situation. 

M 


i62         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Consul,  and  you  would  have  rejoiced  to  have  heard  him  repudiate 
the  spirit  of  judging  you,  or  of  fault-finding.  He  said  he  would 
never  have  spoken  to  me  on  the  subject,  had  I  not  asked  him 
for  his  judgment :  after  which  he  said  that,  had  poor  George 
Miiller  been  in  such  circumstances,  he  cannot  tell  what  he  might 
have  done  ;  still  he  thought  the  more  excellent  way  would  have 
been  to  trust  in  God.  .  .  .  That  we  must  not  set  up  what  we 
think  the  more  excellent  way,  as  a  rule  for  others,  he  quite 
agreed  with  me.  .  .  .  Finally,  Mr.  Miiller  only  allowed  me,  upon 
my  request,  to  refer  to  his  opinion  with  the  understanding  that 
it  was  that  we  might  help  each  other  in  serving  the  Lord,  and 
not  in  any  spirit  of  fault-finding  or  condemning  you. 

March  ii  :  The  Yang-chow  matter  is  before  the  House  of 
Lords,  and  I  hope  to  send  you  a  copy  of  the  Times  ere  long.  You 
can  scarcely  imagine  what  an  effect  the  matter  has  produced  in 
the  country.  Thank  God  I  can  say,  "  None  of  these  things 
move  me."  I  beUeve  He  has  called  us  to  this  work,  and  it  is 
not  for  us  to  run  away  from  it,  or  allow  difficulties  to  overcome 
us.  .  .  .  Be  of  good  courage,  the  battle  is  the  Lord's. 

March  24  :  I  have  not  had  a  moment  in  which  to  look  at  the 
accounts  sent  me  in  your  last  two  letters ;  indeed  I  have  never 
been  so  pressed  before,  both  in  my  business  and  the  affairs  of 
the  Mission.  Still  I  hope  in  God,  and  beUeve  He  will  bring  us 
safely  out  of  this  tremendous  storm.  What  to  do  for  the  best, 
I  know  not. 

April  8  :  I  think  I  can  say  I  never  felt  prayer  to  be  so  real 
as  I  do  now.  God  has  graciously  given  me  more  faith,  and  I 
feel  greatly  helped  heavenward. 

One  result  of  all  these  difficulties  was,  not  unnaturally,  a 
falling  off  in  the  income  of  the  Mission,  so  that  for  the  first 
time  Mr.  Taylor  was  faced  with  serious  shortness  of  funds 
in  China.  This  would  have  been  much  more  the  case  if  the 
Lord  had  not  laid  it  upon  the  heart  and  put  it  into  the  power 
of  Mr.  George  Miiller  largely  to  increase  his  gifts.  He  had 
been  sending  regularly  to  several  members  of  the  Mission 
sometimes  as  much  as  twenty-five  pounds  a  quarter  ;  and 
now,  within  a  day  or  two  of  the  Yang-chow  riot  (long  before 
he  heard  ®f  it) ,  he  wrote  to  Mr.  Berger  asking  for  the  names 
of  others  who  were  thoroughly  satisfactory  in  their  work 
whom  he  might  add  to  his  list.  Mr.  Berger  sent  him  six 
names  from  which  to  choose,  and  his  choice  was  to  take 
them  all.     This  was  not  only  a  substantial  help,  it  was  a 


THE  DARKEST  HOUR  163 

great  encouragement,  for  it  meant  added  sympathy  and 
prayer  on  the  part  of  one  who  knew  the  way  to  the  Throne. 
And  more  and  more  Mr.  Taylor  was  feeUng  the  need  of  just 
such  fellowship. 

"  I  am  in  strange  ups  and  downs/'  wrote  the  saintly  Ruther- 
ford, "  and  seven  times  a  day  I  lose  ground  :  I  am  put  often  to 
swimming,  and  again  my  feet  are  set  on  the  rock  that  is  higher 
than  myself.  ...  I  have  seen  my  abominable  vileness  ;  and  if 
I  were  known,  there  is  none  in  this  kingdom  would  ask  how 
I  do."  1 

Little  as  those  nearest  to  him  could  have  supposed  it, 
this  was  very  much  Mr.  Taylor's  own  experience. 
"  Emptied  "  as  he  was  "  from  vessel  to  vessel,"  constantly 
under  pressure  of  strain  and  stress,  his  spiritual  life  had 
hardly  kept  pace  with  the  demands  upon  it.  Outwardly 
it  may  not  have  seemed  so. 

"  Our  hearts  were  much  drawn  to  Mr.  Taylor,"  said  one  of 
the  fellow-workers  constantly  with  him,  "  by  seeing  his  gentle, 
humble,  tender  spirit  under  the  administrative  triads  of  those 
early  years." 

"  I  have  known  him  under  all  circumstances,"  wrote  another 
before  the  Yang-chow  riot,  "  and  I  feel  that  if  you  could  see  him 
daily  you  would  indeed  admire  his  self-abnegation,  humility  and 
never-flagging  earnestness.  Very  few  in  his  case  would  have 
shown  the  forbearing,  loving  spirit  he  has  shown.  ...  No  one 
knows  how  much  he  has  felt  our  troubles,  nor  how  he  had  suffered 
from  depression.  If  he  were  not  in  the  habit  of  casting  his 
burdens  on  the  Lord,  he  must  have  sunk  under  them.  Grace, 
not  natural  temperament,  has  supported  him." 

But  "  the  heart  knoweth  its  own  bitterness,"  and  the 
load  Hudson  Taylor  was  carrying  was  almost  more  than  he 
could  bear.  It  was  not  the  work  with  all  its  difficulty  and 
trial :  when  consciously  in  communion  with  the  Lord  these 
seemed  light.  It  was  not  shortness  of  funds,  nor  anxiety 
about  those  dearest  to  him.  It  was  just — himself  :  the 
unsratisfied  longing  of  his  heart ;  the  inward  struggle  to 
abide  in  Christ ;  the  frequent  failure  and  disappointment. 
So  bitter  was  this  experience  that  even  when  it  was  left  far 

*  Letter  to  Lady  Boyd  from  Aberdeen,  May  i,  1637. 


i64         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

behind  he  could  never  forget  it.  This  it  was  that  made  him 
always  sympathetic  with  younger  workers  in  their  spiritual 
conflicts,  quick  to  see  and  make  the  most  of  every  oppor- 
tunity to  help  them.  Fellowship  with  God  was  to  him  a 
great  reality,  a  great  necessity.  He  had  known  much  of  it ; 
much  too  of  the  terrible  void  of  losing  it.  *'  Like  a  diver 
under  water  without  air,  or  a  fireman  on  a  burning  building 
with  an  empty  hose,"  he  found  himself  face  to  face  with 
heathenism  and  all  the  claims  that  pressed  upon  him,  but 
alas  !  too  often  out  of  touch  with  Christ.  Had  he  been 
responsible  for  himself  only  this  would  have  been  bad  enough, 
but  with  all  the  demands  upon  him  it  was  unbearable — 
especially  in  view  of  the  subject  to  which  his  thoughts  in 
common  with  those  of  his  fellow-workers  were  being 
directed. 

For  just  at  this  time  the  pages  of  the  Revival  (now  the 
Christian)  were  largely  occupied  with  a  genuine  holiness 
movement  destined,  in  the  providence  of  God,  to  lead  to 
the  Keswick  Convention  with  its  world-wide  influences  for 
good.  Finding  its  way  to  all  the  stations  of  the  Mission,  this 
paper  was  bringing  the  subject  of  a  deeper  spiritual  life 
prominently  before  its  readers,  and  not  a  few,  like  Mr. 
Taylor  himself,  were  hungering  for  a  fuller  experience  of 
the  possibilities  it  set  forth,  which  they  saw  to  be  in  accord- 
ance with  the  Word  of  God.  It  was  the  life  of  habitual 
victory  over  sin,  the  life  that  is  in  deep  reality  "  Not  I,  but 
Christ  "  for  which  their  hearts  longed.  All  through  the 
summer  and  autumn  of  1868  these  articles  were  appearing, 
one  series  entitled  "  The  Way  of  HoHness  "  being  specially 
helpful. 

"  Surely  the  words  *  Christ  liveth  in  me,'  '  For  me  to  live  is 
Christ,*  cannot  mean  less  than  habitual  victory  over  sin,"  said 
the  writer.  "  None  are  so  manifestly,  pitiably  weak  as  the 
'  little  children  '  of  the  Kingdom  when  without  the  presence  of 
Christ ;  but  none  so  strong  as  those  who  abandon  self  to  Him, 
that  He  may  live  in  them,  perfecting  His  strength  in  their  weak- 
ness. .  .  .  You  have  failed,  not  Christ.  I  feel  confident  that 
the  point  of  your  failure  is  in  not  having  committed,  unreservedly, 
everything  to  Him,  in  perfect  self-abandonment. 

"  The  Holy  Spirit  never  creates  hungerings  and  thirstings 


THE  DARKEST  HOUR  165 

after  righteousness,  but  in  order  that  Christ  may  fill  the  longing 
soul. 

"  Faith  in  Jesus  crucified  is  the  way  of  peace  to  the  sinner ; 
so  faith  in  Jesus  risen  is  the  way  of  daily  salvation  to  the  saint. 

"  You  cannot  be  your  own  Saviour,  either  in  whole  or  in  part. 

"  '  Purifying  their  hearts  by  faith  '  :  how  my  soul  leaped  up 
at  those  words,  seeing  in  a  moment  the  possibility  of  deUverance  I 
*  If  then  it  is  by  faith,'  I  exclaimed,  '  I  will  trust  Jesus  for  a 
pure  heart,  and  now  I  '  .  .  . 

"  Can  we  trust  Jesus  too  fully  for  everything  His  Word  sets 
before  us  ? 

"  '  Who  gave  Himself  for  us  that  He  might  redeem  us  from 
all  iniquity,  and  purify  unto  Himself  a  pecuhar  people  (peculiarly 
His  own)  zealous  of  good  works.'  When  is  this  redemption  ? 
Now.  From  what  ?  From  all  iniquity.  What  else  does  His 
sacrifice  propose  ?  To  purify  you  unto  Himself.  When  ought 
you  to  receive  this  redemption  ?  Now.  And  this  purification  ? 
Equally  now,  and  with  the  same  simple  faith. ^ 

"  '  The  Lord  gives  me  to  drink  of  His  love  as  out  of  a  river,' 
Thomas  Walsh  testified.  '  I  laid  me  down  but  could  not  sleep, 
through  a  deep  and  comfortable  sense  of  the  love  of  Christ. 
His  Spirit  rested  on  me,  and  made  my  heart  flame  with  love  to 
my  God,  my  all.  It  never  entered  into  my  soul  to  conceive  of 
thus  loving  Him  with  all  the  heart,  until  He  revealed  it  to  me 
bv  His  Spirit.  The  fire  of  divine  love  burned  incessantly  in  my 
soul.'  " 

To  know  that  redemption,  that  love,  in  fuller  measure 
was  Mr.  Taylor's  deepest  longing  ;  but  oh,  how  different 
were  the  actual  experiences  of  his  soul !  With  the  growth 
of  the  Mission  his  way  seemed  ever  more  beset  with  inward 
a-nd  outward  perplexity,  and  with  a  need  for  the  exercise  of 
faith  and  grace  which  he  had  not  faith  and  grace  to  meet. 
Sometimes  he  was  buoyed  up  by  hope,  sometimes  almost  in 
despair. 

Life  was  too  busy  as  a  rule  for  his  correspondence  to 
reveal  much  of  the  crisis  through  which  he  was  passing,  but 
early  in  1869  he  found  himself  alone  on  a  journey  which  gave 
opportunity  for  one  ot  the  old-time  letters  to  his  mother. 
Leaving  Mr.  Judd  in  charge  at  Yang-chow  and  Mr.  Rudland 

1  Titus  ii.  14  in  Weymouth's  translation  reads :  "  Who  gave  Himself 
for  us,  to  purchase  our  freedom  from  all  iniquity,  and  purify  for  Himself  a 
people  who  should  be  specially  His  own,  zealous  for  doing  good  works." 


i66  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

at  Chin-kiang,  he  had  brought  his  family  to  Ningpo  for  the 
time  being,  while  he  went  to  and  fro  among  the  older 
stations  of  the  Mission.  Danger  of  riots  detained  him  in 
Tai-chow-fu  for  a  month,  while  the  city  was  full  of  students 
for  the  yearly  examination.  Both  there  and  in  Wen-chow, 
where  Mr.  Stott  had  weathered  persistent  storms  of  opposi- 
tion, the  work  was  already  bearing  fruit,  and  Mr.  Taylor  had 
the  joy  of  baptizing  the  first  believers.  In  a  more  recently 
opened  station,  Ning-hai,  he  found  five  candidates  for 
baptism  and  a  general  willingness  to  hear  the  Gospel,  where 
thirteen  months  previously  there  had  been  neither  convert 
nor  preacher.  His  heart  had  been  so  burdened  about  the 
place  on  his  former  visit  that  he  had  definitely  prayed  that 
the  Gospel  might  be  brought  there  before  long,  and  now  it 
was  cheering  to  see  the  answer.  But  while,  writing  from  that 
very  city,  he  gave  his  parents  the  good  news,  it  was  their 
help  he  sought  in  those  personal  matters  of  which  he  could 
hardly  have  spoken  so  freely  to  any  other. 

"  I  have  often  asked  you  to  remember  me  in  prayer,"  he  said 
(Mar.  13,  1869),  "  and  when  I  have  done  so  there  has  been  much 
need  of  it.  That  need'has  never  been  greater  than  at  the  present 
time.  Envied  by  some,  despised  by  many,  hated  perhaps  by 
others  ;  often  blamed  for  things  I  never  heard  of,  or  had  nothing 
to  do  with  ;  an  innovator  on  what  have  become  established 
rules  of  missionary  practice  ;  an  opponent  of  mighty  systems 
of  heathen  error  and  superstition  ;  working  without  precedent 
in  many  respects,  and  with  few  experienced  helpers  ;  often  sick 
in  body,  as  well  as  perplexed  in  mind  and  embarrassed  by  cir- 
cumstances ;  had  not  the  Lord  been  specially  gracious  to  me, 
had  not  my  mind  been  sustained  by  the  conviction  that  the  work 
is  His,  and  that  He  is  with  me  in  what  it  is  no  empty  figure  to 
call  '  the  thick  of  the  conflict,'  I  must  have  fainted  and  broken 
down.  But  the  battle  is  the  Lord's  :  and  He  will  conquer. 
We  may  fail,  do  fail  continually  ;  but  He  never  fails.  Still 
I  need  your  prayers  more  than  ever  before. 

"  My  own  position  becomes  continually  more  and  more 
responsible,  and  my  need  greater  of  special  grace  to  fill  it ;  but 
I  have  continually  to  mourn  that  I  follow  at  such  a  distance 
and  learn  so  slowly  to  imitate  my  precious  Master.  I  cannot 
tell  you  how  I  am  buffeted  sometimes  by  temptation.  I  never 
knew  how  bad  a  heart  I  had.  Yet  I  do  know  that  I  love  God 
and  love  His  work,  and  desire  to  serve  Him  only  and  in  all  things. 


THE  DARKEST  HOUR  167 

And  I  value  above  all  things  that  precious  Saviour  in  Whom 
alone  I  can  be  accepted.  Often  I  am  tempted  to  think  that  one 
so  full  of  sin  cannot  be  a  child  of  God  at  all ;  but  I  try  to  throw 
it  back,  and  rejoice  all  the  more  in  the  preciousness  of  Jesus, 
and  in  the  riches  of  that  grace  that  has  made  us  '  accepted  in 
the  Beloved.'  Beloved  He  is  of  God  ;  beloved  He  ought  to  be 
of  us.  But  oh,  how  short  I  fall  here  again  !  May  God  help  me 
to  love  Him  more  and  serve  Him  better.  Do  pray  for  me.  Pray 
that  the  Lord  will  keep  me  from  sin,  will  sanctify  me  wholly, 
will  use  me  more  largely  in  His  service." 


CHAPTER  XIT 

THE   EXCHANGED   LIFE 
1869.     Aet.  37. 

In  the  old  home  at  Hang-chow  Mr.  McCarthy  was  sitting 
writing.  The  glory  of  a  great  sunrise  was  upon  him — the 
light  whose  inward  dawning  makes  all  things  new.  To  tell 
his  beloved  friend  and  leader  about  it  was  his  longing,  for 
he  knew  from  his  own  experience  something  of  the  exercise 
of  mind  through  which  Mr.  Taylor  was  passing.  But  where 
to  begin,  how  to  put  it  into  words  he  knew  not,  and  the  day 
was  full  of  pressing  duties. 

"  I  do  wish  I  could  have  a  talk  with  you  nowy  he  wrote, 
"  about  the  way  of  Holiness.  At  the  time  you  were  speaking 
to  me  about  it,  it  was  the  subject  of  all  others  occupying  my 
thoughts — not  from  anything  I  had  read,  not  from  what  my 
brother  had  written  even,  so  much  as  from  a  consciousness  of 
failure  ;  a  constant  falling  short  of  that  which  I  felt  should  be 
aimed  at ;  an  unrest  ;  a  perpetual  striving  to  find  some  way  by 
which  I  might  continuously  enjoy  that  communion,  that  fellow- 
ship at  times  so  real,  but  more  often  so  visionary,  so  far  off !  .  .  . 
Do  you  know,  dear  brother,  I  now  think  that  this  striving,  effort, 
longing,  hoping  for  better  days  to  come,  is  not  the  true  way  to 
happiness,  holiness  or  usefulness  :  better,  no  doubt  far  better, 
than  being  satisfied  with  our  poor  attainments,  but  not  the 
best  way  after  all.  I  have  been  struck  with  a  passage  from  a 
book  of  yours  left  here,  entitled  Christ  is  All.     It  says  : 

"  The  Lord  Jesus  received  is  holiness  begun  ;  the  Lord 
Jesus  cherished  is  hoUness  advancing ;  the  Lord  Jesus 
counted  upon  as  never  absent  would  be  holiness  complete. 

"  This  (grace  of  faith)  is  the  chain  which  binds  the  soul 
to  Christ,  and  makes  the  Saviour  and  the  sinner  one.  .  .  . 

i63 


THE  EXCHANGED  LIFE  169 

A  channel  is  now  formed  by  which  Christ's  fulness  plenteously 
flows  down.  The  barren  branch  becomes  a  portion  of  the 
fruitful  stem.  .  .  .  One  life  reigns  throughout  the  whole. 

"  Believer,  you  mourn  your  shortcomings  ;  you  find  the 
hated  monster,  sin,  still  striving  for  the  mastery.  Evil  is 
present  when  you  would  do  good.  Help  is  laid  up  for  you 
in  Christ.  Seek  clearer  interest  in  Him.  They  who  most 
deeply  feel  that  they  have  died  in  Christ,  and  paid  in  Him 
sin's  penalties,  ascend  to  highest  heights  of  godly  hfe.  He 
is  most  holy  who  has  most  of  Christ  within,  and  joys  most 
fully  in  the  finished  work.  It  is  defective  faith  which  clogs 
the  feet,  and  causes  many  a  fall. 

"  This  last  sentence  I  think  I  now  fully  endorse.  To  let  my 
loving  Saviour  work  in  me  His  will,  my  sanctification  is  what 
I  would  Hve  for  by  His  grace.  Abiding,  not  striving  nor  strug- 
ghng  ;  looking  off  unto  Him  ;  trusting  Him  for  present  power  ; 
trusting  Him  to  subdue  all  inward  corruption  ;  resting  in  the 
love  of  an  almighty  Saviour,  in  the  conscious  joy  of  a  complete 
salvation,  a  salvation  '  from  all  sin  '  (this  is  His  Word)  ;  willing 
that  His  will  should  truly  be  supreme — this  is  not  new,  and  yet 
'tis  new  to  me.  I  feel  as  though  the  first  dawning  of  a  glorious 
day  had  risen  upon  me.  I  hail  it  with  trembhng,  yet  with 
trust.  I  seem  to  have  got  to  the  edge  only,  but  of  a  sea  which 
is  boundless ;  to  have  sipped  only,  but  of  that  which  fully  satisfies. 
Christ  Hterally  all  seems  to  me  now  the  power,  the  only  power 
for  service  ;  the  only  ground  for  unchanging  joy.  May  He 
lead  us  into  the  realisation  of  His  unfathomable  fulness." 

August  21  :  How  then  to  have  our  faith  increased  ?  Only 
by  thinking  of  aU  that  Jesus  is,  and  all  He  is  for  us  :  His  hfe. 
His  death.  His  work.  He  Himself  as  revealed  to  us  in  the  Word, 
to  be  the  subject  of  our  constant  thoughts.  Not  a  striving  to 
have  faith,  or  to  increase  our  faith,  but  a  looking  off  to  the 
Faithful  One  seems  aU  we  need  ;  a  resting  in  the  Loved  One 
entirely,  for  time  and  for  eternity.  It  does  not  appear  to  me  as 
anything  new,  only  formerly  misapprehended. 

Life  was,  if  anything,  specially  full  and  busy  for  Mr. 
Taylor  at  this  time.  He  had  returned  from  his  journey 
round  the  older  stations  to  an  endless  succession  of  duties 
that  kept  him  on  the  move  between  Yang-chow  and  Chin- 
kiang.  Both  were  in  a  sense  the  headquarters  of  the  Mission, 
and  the  growing  church  in  the  former  and  the  demands  of 
the  printing-press  in  the  latter  filled  every  moment  that 
could  be  spared  from  account  keeping,  correspondence,  and 


170         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

directorial  matters.  There  had  recently  been  baptisms  in 
Yang-chow,  and  Mr.  Judd  was  glad  of  all  the  help  Mr. 
Taylor  could  give  in  caring  for  the  young  converts.  The 
heat  of  summer  had  told  upon  all  the  party,  and  Mr.  Taylor 
himself  had  been  laid  aside  by  severe  illness  in  the  middle 
of  August.  Now,  early  in  September,  he  was  recovering, 
and  trying  to  overtake  the  work  that  had  accumulated. 
The  Cordons  had  come  over  from  Soo-chow  to  consult  him 
about  their  movements  ;  the  Duncans  were  on  their  way 
from  Nanking  for  special  conference  ;  others  were  coming 
and  going  on  various  matters,  and  there  was  a  good  deal  of 
proof-reading  on  hand.  Mrs.  Judd  also  was  dangerously  ill, 
and  required  Mr.  Taylor's  attention  as  a  doctor.  It  was  no 
time,  surely,  for  an  outstanding  crisis  in  spiritual  things  ! 

Yet,  oh,  how  deep  the  heart-hunger,  in  and  through  all 
else  !  That  did  not  diminish.  It  seemed  to  increase,  rather, 
with  all  the  need  there  was  to  minister  to  others.  Leaving 
a  full  house  in  Chin-kiang,  Mr.  Taylor  had  run  up  to  Yang- 
chow  to  see  his  patient,  and  was  returning  now  alone  by  a 
little  boat  chosen  less  for  comfort  than  for  speed.  It  was 
early  in  the  morning,  and  he  was  eager  to  be  in  Chin-kiang, 
where  Mrs.  Taylor  was,  in  time  for  breakfast,  so  as  not  to 
lose  a  moment  of  the  day  for  work.  Coming  down  the 
Grand  Canal  and  crossing  the  Yangtze  (two  miles  wide)  he 
had  quiet  for  thought — thought  and  prayer.  Were  it  not 
recorded  in  his  own  words  it  would  be  (hfhcult  to  believe, 
certainly  impossible  to  imagine,  such  conflict,  suffering, 
almost  despair  in  spiritual  things  in  one  who  had  long  and 
truly  known  the  Lord.  Ah,  was  it  not  that  very  fact  that 
made  it  possible  ?  Nearness  to  Christ  had  been  to  him  so 
real  and  blessed  that  any  distance  was  unbearable.  So 
deeply  did  he  love  that  any  clouding  of  the  Master's  face  was 
felt,  and  felt  at  once  with  anguish  of  heart.  It  is  the  bride 
who  mourns  the  absence  of  the  bridegroom,  not  one  who  has 
been  a  stranger  to  His  love. 

Reaching  the  little  crowded  house  at  Chin-kiang,  Mr. 
Taylor  made  his  way  as  soon  as  possible  to  his  room  to 
attend  to  correspondence.  There,  amid  a  pile  of  letters,  was 
one  from  Mr.  McCarthy.     We  do  not  know  if  he  was  alone 


THE  EXCHANGED  LIFE  171 

as  he  read  it :  we  do  not  know  just  how  the  miracle  was 
wrought.  But — "  as  I  read,  I  saw  it  all.  I  looked  to  Jesus  ; 
and  when  I  saw,  oh  how  joy  flowed  !  " 

It  was  Saturday  the  4th  of  September ;  the  house  was  full, 
and  others  were  coming ;  somehow  they  must  be  put  up  and 
kept  over  Sunday,  for  this  great  joy  could  not  but  be  shared.^ 
As  soon  as  he  could  break  away  from  his  glad  thanksgivings, 
Mr.  Taylor  went  out,  a  new  man  in  a  new  world,  to  tell  what 
the  Lord  had  done  for  his  soul.  He  took  the  letters,  Mr. 
McCarthy's  and  one  from  Miss  Faulding  in  the  same  strain, 
and,  gathering  the  household  together  in  the  sitting-room 
upstairs,  told  out  what  his  whole  life  was  telling  from  that 
time  onward  to  the  glorious  end.  Other  hearts  were  moved 
and  blessed  ;  the  streams  began  to  flow.  From  that  Httle 
crowded  home  in  Chin-kiang  city  they  flowed  on  and  out, 
and  are  flowing  still — "  rivers  of  hving  water."  For  "  whoso- 
ever drinketh  of  the  water  that  I  shall  give  him,"  Jesus  said, 
"  shall  never  thirst ;  but  the  water  that  I  shall  give  him  shall 
be  in  him  a  well  of  water  springing  up  into  everlasting  life." 

And  he  did  more  than  tell.  Pressed  though  he  was  with 
business  matters,  his  correspondence  took  on  a  new  tone. 
Here  is  one  of  the  first  letters  written  with  that  tide  of  joy 
and  life  more  abundant  sweeping  through  his  soul.  Books 
and  medicines  were  needed  from  Yang-chow,  and  in  sending 
for  them  Mr.  Taylor  gave  directions  so  detailed  that  all  need- 
less trouble  would  be  spared.  The  pencilled  lines  on  half  a 
sheet  of  notepaper  show  that  he  was  very  busy — but  how  at 
leisure  in  spirit ! 

Chin-kiang,  September  6,  1869. 
My  dear  Sister — We  had  a  very  happy  day  here  yesterday. 
I  was  so  happy  1     A  letter  from  Mr.  McCarthy  on  this  subject 

1  September  4  saw  the  following  entry  in  Miss  Blatchley's  journal  : 
"  Mr.  Taylor  here  (Chin-kiang)  by  about  breakfast-time.  He  had  met  the 
Duncans,  and  they  came  back  with  him.  Soon  after,  the  Cordons  also 
arrived.  ...  All  are  to  stay  over  Sunday  for  special  prayer  re  hoHness. 
Mr.  McCarthy's  letter  on  the  subject,  awaiting  Mr.  Taylor,  God  used  for  a 
channel  of  blessing  to  him.  He  too  has  now  received  the  rest  of  soul  that 
Jesus  gave  to  me  some  httle  time  ago.  Mr.  McCarthy  and  Jennie  (Miss 
Faulding)  both  seem  to  have  obtained  it,  as  also  had  Miss  Desgraz  before 
we  returned  from  the  South.  Others  too,  the  Rudlands,  Cordons,  Duncans, 
Judds,  and  Miss  Bowyer  have  had  their  minds  much  exercised  on  the  same 
subject — how  to  attain  hoUness  of  heart  and  life." 


172         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

has  been  blessed  to  several  of  us.  He  and  Miss  Faulding  also 
seem  so  happy  I  He  says  :  "I  feel  as  though  the  first  gUmmer 
of  the  dawn  of  a  glorious  day  had  risen  upon  me.  I  hail  it  with 
trembUng,  yet  with  trust." 

The  part  specially  helpful  to  me  is  :  "  How  then  to  have  our 
faith  increased  ?  Only  by  thinking  of  all  that  Jesus  is,  and  all 
He  is  for  us  :  His  Ufe,  His  death,  His  work,  He  Himself  as  revealed 
to  us  in  the  Word,  to  be  the  subject  of  our  constant  thoughts. 
Not  a  striving  to  have  faith,  or  to  increase  our  faith,  but  a  looking 
off  to  the  Faithful  One  seems  all  we  need." 

Here,  I  feel,  is  the  secret :  not  asking  how  I  am  to  get  sap 
out  of  the  vine  into  myself,  but  remembering  that  Jesus  is  the 
Vine — the  root,  stem,  branches,  twigs,  leaves,  flowers,  fruit,  all 
indeed.  Aye,  and  far  more  too  !  He  is  the  soil  and  sunshine, 
air  and  rain — more  than  we  can  ask,  think,  or  desire.  Let  us 
not  then  want  to  get  anything  out  of  Him,  but  rejoice  in  being 
ourselves  in  Him — one  with  Him,  and,  consequently,  with  all 
His  fulness.  Not  seeking  for  faith  to  bring  holiness,  but  rejoicing 
in  the  fact  of  perfect  holiness  in  Christ,  let  us  realise  that — in- 
separably one  with  Him — this  hoHness  is  ours,  and  accepting 
the  fact,  find  it  so  indeed.     But  I  must  stop. 

Returning  to  Yang-chow  to  see  his  patient,  Mr.  Taylor 
became  the  bearer  of  his  own  glad  tidings. 

"  When  I  went  to  welcome  him,"  recalled  Mr.  Judd,  "  he 
was  so  full  of  joy  that  he  scarcely  knew  how  to  speak  to  me. 
He  did  not  even  say,  '  How  do  you  do  ?  '  but  walking  up  and 
down  the  room  with  his  hands  behind  him,  exclaimed  : 

"  '  Oh,  Mr.  Judd,  God  has  made  me  a  new  man  I  God  has 
made  me  a  new  man  1  '  " 

That  midnight  conversation  and  the  change  that  had 
come  over  his  beloved  leader  greatly  impressed  the  younger 
missionary.  He  too  had  seen  these  things  theoretically,  as 
so  many  do,  without  really  apprehending  them. 

*'  I  have  not  got  to  make  myself  a  branch,"  he  could  never 
forget  Mr.  Taylor  saying.  "  The  Lord  Jesus  tells  me  1  am  a, 
branch.  I  am  part  of  Him,  and  have  just  to  beUeve  it  and  act 
upon  it.  If  I  go  to  the  bank  in  Shanghai,  having  an  account, 
and  ask  for  fifty  dollars,  the  clerk  cannot  refuse  it  to  my  out- 
stretched hand  and  say  that  it  belongs  to  Mr.  Taylor.  What 
belongs  to  Mr.  Taylor  my  hand  may  take.  It  is  a  member  of 
my  body.     And  I  am  a  member  of  Christ,  and  may  take  all  I 


THE  EXCHANGED  LIFE  173 

need  of  His  fulness.     I  have  seen  it  long  enough  in  the  Bible, 
but  I  believe  it  now  as  a  living  reality." 

Simple  as  it  was,  the  new  point  of  view  changed  every- 
thing. 

"  He  was  a  joyous  man  now,"  added  Mr.  Judd,  "  a  bright, 
happy  Christian.  He  had  been  a  toiUng,  burdened  one  before, 
with  latterly  not  much  rest  of  soul.  It  was  resting  in  Jesus  now, 
and  letting  Him  do  the  work — which  makes  all  the  difference  ! 
Whenever  he  spoke  in  meetings,  after  that,  a  new  power  seemed 
to  flow  from  him,  and  in  the  practical  things  of  life  a  new  peace 
possessed  him.  Troubles  did  not  worry  him  as  before.  He  cast 
everything  on  God  in  a  new  way,  and  gave  more  time  to  prayer. 
Instead  of  v/orking  late  at  night,  he  began  to  go  to  bed  earlier, 
rising  at  five  in  the  morning  to  give  two  hours  before  the  work 
of  the  day  began  to  Bible  study  and  prayer.  Thus  his  own 
soul  was  fed,  and  from  him  flowed  the  living  water  to  others." 

Six  weeks  after  these  experiences,  when  Mr.  Taylor  was 
rejoicing  in  the  abiding  fulness  of  this  new  life,  a  letter 
reached  him  from  England  that  specially  touched  his  heart. 
It  was  from  his  sister,  Mrs.  Broomhall,  the  intimate  friend 
and  correspondent  of  his  early  years,  who  now  with  a  grow- 
ing family  round  her  was  sore  pressed,  as  he  had  been  him- 
self, by  outward  responsibilities  and  inward  conflict  rather 
than  rest  in  spiritual  things.  With  a  great  longing  to  help 
one  so  dear  to  him,  Mr.  Taylor  took  up  his  pen  to  reply. 
As  he  wrote,  the  whole  story  of  his  own  extremity  and 
deliverance  was  poured  out  in  a  letter  so  precious  that  it  is 
given  in  full,  despite  the  risk  of  some  repetition  : 

October  17,  1869 :  So  many  thanks  for  your  long,  dear 
letter.  ...  I  do  not  think  you  have  written  me  such  a  letter 
since  we  have  been  in  China.  I  know  it  is  with  you  as  with  me 
— you  cannot y  not  you  will  not.  Mind  and  body  will  not  bear 
more  than  a  certain  amount  of  strain,  or  do  more  than  a  certain 
amount  of  work.  As  to  work,  mine  was  never  so  plentiful,  so 
responsible,  or  so  difficult ;  but  the  weight  and  strain  are  all  gone. 
The  last  month  or  more  has  been  perhaps,  the  happiest  of  my 
Hfe  ;  and  I  long  to  tell  you  a  httle  of  what  the  Lord  has  done  for 
my  soul.  I  do  not  know  how  far  I  may  be  able  to  make  myself 
intelhgible  about  it,  for  there  is  nothing  new  or  strange  or  wonder- 
ful— and  yet,  all  is  new  !  In  a  word,  "  Whereas  once  I  was  bhnd, 
now  I  see." 


174         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Perhaps  I  shall  make  myself  more  clear  if  I  go  back  a  Uttle. 
Well,  dearie,  my  mind  has  been  greatly  exercised  for  six  or 
eight  months  past,  feehng  the  need  personally,  and  for  our  Mission, 
of  more  holiness,  Hfe,  power  in  our  souls.  But  personal  need 
stood  first  and  was  the  greatest.  I  felt  the  ingratitude,  the  danger, 
the  sin  of  not  Hving  nearer  to  God.  I  prayed,  agonised,  fasted, 
strove,  made  resolutions,  read  the  Word  more  dihgently,  sought 
more  time  for  retirement  and  meditation — but  all  was  without 
effect.  Every  day,  almost  every  hour,  the  consciousness  of  sin 
oppressed  me.  I  knew  that  if  I  could  only  abide  in  Christ  all 
would  be  well,  but  I  could  fiot.  I  began  the  day  with  prayer, 
determined  not  to  take  my  eye  from  Him  for  a  moment ;  but 
pressure  of  duties,  sometimes  very  trying,  constant  interruptions 
apt  to  be  so  wearing,  often  caused  me  to  forget  Him.  Then 
one's  nerves  get  so  fretted  in  this  climate  that  temptations  to 
irritability,  hard  thoughts,  and  sometimes  unkind  words  are  all 
the  more  difficult  to  control.  Each  day  brought  its  register  of 
sin  and  failure,  of  lack  of  power.  To  will  was  indeed  present 
with  me,  but  how  to  perform  I  found  not. 

Then  came  the  question,  "  Is  there  no  rescue  ?  Must  it  be 
thus  to  the  end — constant  conflict  and,  instead  of  victory,  too 
often  defeat  ?  "  How,  too,  could  I  preach  with  sincerity  that 
to  those  who  receive  Jesus,  "  to  them  gave  He  power  to  become 
the  sons  of  God  "  (i.e.  God-like)  when  it  was  not  so  in  my  own 
experience  ?  Instead  of  growing  stronger,  I  seemed  to  be  getting 
weaker  and  to  have  less  power  against  sin  ;  and  no  wonder,  for 
faith  and  even  hope  were  getting  very  low.  I  hated  myself  ; 
I  hated  my  sin  ;  and  yet  I  gained  no  strength  against  it.  I 
felt  I  was  a  child  of  God  :  His  Spirit  in  my  heart  would  cry,  in 
spite  of  all,  "  Abba,  Father  "  :  but  to  rise  to  my  privileges  as  a 
child,  I  was  utterly  powerless.  I  thought  that  hoUness,  practical 
holiness,  was  to  be  gradually  attained  by  a  dihgent  use  of  the 
means  of  grace.  I  felt  that  there  was  nothing  I  so  much  desired 
in  this  world,  nothing  I  so  much  needed.  But  so  far  from  in 
any  measure  attaining  it,  the  more  I  pursued  and  strove  after  it, 
the  more  it  eluded  my  grasp  ;  till  hope  itself  almost  died  out, 
and  I  began  to  think  that,  perhaps  to  make  heaven  the  sweeter, 
God  would  not  give  it  down  here.  I  do  not  think  I  was  striving 
to  attain  it  in  my  own  strength.  I  knew  I  was  powerless.  I 
told  the  Lord  so,  and  asked  Him  to  give  me  help  and  strength  ; 
and  sometimes  I  almost  beheved  He  would  keep  and  uphold 
me.  But  on  looking  back  in  the  evening,  alas  !  there  was  but 
sin  and  failure  to  confess  and  mourn  before  God. 

I  would  not  give  you  the  impression  that  this  was  the  daily 
experience  of  all  those  long,  weary  months.     It  was  a  too  frequent 


THE  EXCHANGED  LIFE 


175 


state  of  soul ;  that  toward  which  I  was  tending,  and  which 
ahnost  ended  in  despair.  And  yet  never  did  Christ  seem  more 
precious — a  Saviour  who  could  and  would  save  such  a  sinner  I 
.  .  .  And  sometimes  there  were  seasons  not  only  of  peace  but 
of  joy  in  the  Lord.  But  they  were  transitory,  and  at  best  there 
was  a  sad  lack  of  power.  Oh,  how  good  the  Lord  was  in  bringing 
this  conflict  to  an  end  ! 

All  the  time  I  felt  assured  that  there  was  in  Christ  all  I  needed, 
but  the  practical  question  was  how  to  get  it  out.  He  was  rich, 
truly,  but  I  was  poor  ;  He  strong,  but  I  weak.  I  knew  full 
well  that  there  was  in  the  root,  the  stem,  abundant  fatness  ; 
but  how  to  get  it  into  my  puny  httle  branch  was  the  question. 
As  gradually  the  Ught  was  dawning  on  me,  I  saw  that  faith  was 
the  only  pre-requisite,  was  the  hand  to  lay  hold  on  His  fulness 
and  make  it  my  own.  But  I  had  not  this  faith.  I  strove  for  it, 
but  it  would  not  come  ;  tried  to  exercise  it,  but  in  vain.  Seeing 
more  and  more  the  wondrous  supply  of  grace  laid  up  in  Jesus, 
the  fulness  of  our  precious  Saviour — my  helplessness  and  guilt 
seemed  to  increase.  Sins  committed  appeared  but  as  trifles 
compared  with  the  sin  of  unbeHef  which  was  their  cause,  which 
could  not  or  would  not  take  God  at  His  word,  but  rather  made  , 
Him  a  liar  !  Unbehef  was,  I  felt,  the  damning  sin  of  the  world — 
yet  I  indulged  in  it.  I  prayed  for  faith,  but  it  came  not.  What 
was  I  to  do  ? 

When  my  agony  of  soul  vv-as  at  its  height,  a  sentence  in  a 
letter  from  dear  McCarthy  was  used  to  remove  the  scales  from 
my  eyes,  and  the  Spirit  of  God  revealed  the  truth  of  our  oneness 
with  Jesus  as  I  had  never  known  it  before.  McCarthy,  who  had 
been  much  exercised  by  the  same  sense  of  failure,  but  saw  the 
Ught  before  I  did,  wrote  (I  quote  from  memory)  : 

"  But  how  to  get  faith  strengthened  ?  Not  by  striving  after 
faith,  but  by  resting  on  the  Faithful  One." 

As  I  read  I  saw  it  all  I  "If  we  beheve  not,  He  abideth 
faithful."  I  looked  to  Jesus  and  saw  (and  when  I  saw,  oh,  how 
joy  flowed  !)  that  He  had  said,  "  /  will  never  leave  you."  "  Ah, 
there  is  rest  !  "  I  thought.  "  I  have  striven  in  vain  to  rest  in 
Him.  I'll  strive  no  more.  For  has  He  not  promised  to  abide 
with  me — never  to  leave  me,  never  to  fail  me  ?  "  And,  dearie, 
He  never  will ! 

But  this  was  not  all  He  showed  me,  nor  one  half.  As  I 
thought  of  the  Vine  and  the  branches,  what  hght  the  blessed 
Spirit  poured  direct  into  my  soul !  How  great  seemed  my  mistake 
in  having  wished  to  get  the  sap,  the  fulness  out  of  Him.  I  saw 
not  only  that  Jesus  would  never  leave  me,  but  that  I  was  a 
member  of  His  body,  of  His  flesh  and  of  His  bones.     The  vine 


176         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

now  I  see,  is  not  the  root  merely,  but  all — root,  stem,  branches, 
twigs,  leaves,  flowers,  fruit :  and  Jesus  is  not  only  that :  He  is 
soil  and  sunshine,  air  and  showers,  and  ten  thousand  times  more 
than  we  have  ever  dreamed,  wished  for,  or  needed.  Oh,  the  joy 
of  seeing  this  truth  !  I  do  pray  that  the  eyes  of  your  under- 
standing may  be  enlightened,  that  you  may  know  and  enjoy  the 
riches  freely  given  us  in  Christ. 

Oh,  my  dear  sister,  it  is  a  wonderful  thing  to  be  really  one 
with  a  risen  and  exalted  Saviour  ;  to  be  a  member  of  Christ ! 
Think  what  it  involves.  Can  Christ  be  rich  and  I  poor  ?  Can 
your  right  hand  be  rich  and  the  left  poor  ?  or  your  head  be  well 
fed  while  your  body  starves  ?  Again,  think  of  its  bearing  on 
prayer.  Could  a  bank  clerk  say  to  a  customer,  "  It  was  only 
your  hand  wrote  that  cheque,  not  you,"  or,  "  I  cannot  pay  this 
sum  to  your  hand,  but  only  to  yourself  "  ?  No  more  can  your 
prayers,  or  mine,  be  discredited  if  offered  in  the  Name  of  Jesus 
(i.e.  not  in  our  own  name,  or  for  the  sake  of  Jesus  merely,  but  on 
the  ground  that  we  are  His,  His  members)  so  long  as  we  keep 
within  the  extent  of  Christ's  credit — a  tolerably  wide  hmit  ! 
If  we  ask  anything  unscriptural  or  not  in  accordance  with  the 
will  of  God,  Christ  Himself  could  not  do  that ;  but,  "  If  we  ask 
anything  according  to  His  wiU,  He  heareth  us,  and  .  .  .  we 
know  that  we  have  the  petitions  that  we  desire  of  Him." 

The  sweetest  part,  if  one  may  speak  of  one  part  being  sweeter 
than  another,  is  the  rest  which  full  identification  with  Christ 
brings.  I  am  no  longer  anxious  about  anything,  as  I  reaUse 
this  ;  for  He,  I  know,  is  able  to  carry  out  His  will,  and  His  will 
is  mine.  It  makes  no  matter  where  He  places  me,  or  how.  That 
is  rather  for  Him  to  consider  than  for  me  ;  for  in  the  easiest 
positions  He  must  give  me  His  grace,  and  in  the  most  difficult 
His  grace  is  sufficient.  It  httle  matters  to  my  servant  whether 
I  send  him  to  buy  a  few  cash  worth  of  tilings,  or  the  most  expensive 
articles.  In  either  case  he  looks  to  me  for  the  money,  and  brings 
me  his  purchases.  So,  if  God  place  me  in  great  perplexity,  must 
He  not  give  me  much  guidance  ;  in  positions  of  great  difficulty, 
much  grace  ;  in  circumstances  of  great  pressure  and  trial,  much 
strength  ?  No  fear  that  His  resources  will  be  unequal  to  the 
emergency  !  And  His  resources  are  mine,  for  He  is  mine,  and 
is  with  me  and  dwells  in  me.  All  this  springs  from  the  beUever's 
oneness  with  Christ.  And  since  Christ  has  thus  dwelt  in  my 
heart  by  faith,  how  happy  I  have  been  !  I  wish  I  could  tell  you, 
instead  of  writing  about  it. 

I  am  no  better  than  before  (may  I  not  say,  in  a  sense,  I  do 
not  wish  to  be,  nor  am  I  striving  to  be)  ;  but  I  am  dead  and 
buried  with  Christ — aye,  and  risen  too  and  ascended ;   and  now 


THE  EXCHANGED  LIFE  177 

Christ  lives  in  me,  and  "  the  hfe  that  I  now  hve  in  the  flesh,  I 
live  by  the  faith  of  the  Son  of  God,  Who  loved  me,  and  gave 
Himself  for  me."  I  now  believe  I  am  dead  to  sin.  God  reckons 
me  so,  and  tells  me  to  reckon  myself  so.  He  knows  best.  All 
my  past  experience  may  have  shown  that  it  was  not  so  ;  but  I 
dare  not  say  it  is  not  now,  when  He  says  it  is.  I  feel  and  know 
that  old  things  have  passed  away.  I  am  as  capable  of  sinning 
as  ever,  but  Christ  is  reahsed  as  present  as  never  before.  He 
cannot  sin  ;  and  He  can  keep  me  from  sinning.  I  cannot  say 
(I  am  sorry  to  have  to  confess  it)  that  since  I  have  seen  this 
Hght  I  have  not  sinned  ;  but  I  do  feel  there  was  no  need  to 
have  done  so.  And  further — walking  more  in  the  light,  my 
conscience  has  been  more  tender ;  sin  has  been  instantly  seen, 
confessed,  pardoned  ;  and  peace  and  joy  (with  humihty)  instantly 
restored  :  with  one  exception,  when  for  several  hours  peace 
and  joy  did  not  return — from  want,  as  I  had  to  learn,  of  full 
confession,  and  from  some  attempt  to  justify  self. 

Faith,  I  now  see,  is  "  the  substance  of  things  hoped  for,"  and 
not  mere  shadow.  It  is  not  less  than  sight,  but  more.  Sight 
only  shows  the  outward  forms  of  things  ;  faith  gives  the  sub- 
stance. You  can  rest  on  substance,  feed  on  substance.  Christ 
dweUing  in  the  heart  by  faith  {i.e.  His  Word  of  Promi&e  credited) 
is  power  indeed,  is  life  indeed.  And  Christ  and  sin  will  not  dwell 
together ;  nor  can  we  have  His  presence  with  love  of  the  world, 
or  carefulness  about  "  many  things." 

And  now  I  must  close.  I  have  not  said  half  I  would,  nor  as 
I  would  had  I  more  time.  May  God  give  you  to  lay  hold  on  these 
blessed  truths.  Do  not  let  us  continue  to  say,  in  effect,  "  Who 
shall  ascend  into  heaven,  that  is  to  bring  Christ  down  from  above." 
In  other  words,  do  not  let  us  consider  Him  as  afar  off,  when  God 
has  made  us  one  with  Him,  members  of  His  very  body.  Nor 
should  we  look  upon  this  experience,  these  truths,  as  for  the 
few.  They  are  the  birthright  of  every  child  of  God,  and  no  one 
can  dispense  with  them  without  dishonour  to  our  Lord.  The 
only  power  for  dehverance  from  sin  or  for  true  service  is  Christ. 

And  it  was  blessing  that  stood  the  test  as  the  busy  days 
went  by.  Well  might  Mr.  Taylor  have  said  with  George 
Miiller  of  Bristol  at  this  time :  "  If  I  had  strength  to  work 
twenty-four  hours  every  day  I  could  not  half  accomplish 
what  is  ready  for  my  hands  and  feet  and  head  and  heart." 
With  him,  too,  he  could  have  added  :  "  Yet  with  all  this,  I 
consider  my  first  business  to  be,  and  my  most  important 
business  every  day,  to  get  blessing  in  my  own  soul — for  my 

N 


178        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

own  soul  to  be  happy  in  the  Lord,  and  then  to  work,  and  to 
work  with  all  diligence."  A  few  extracts  from  the  corre- 
spondence of  one  fortnight  will  show  how  many  and  varied 
were  Mr.  Taylor's  occupations,  and  that  the  joy  of  the  Lord 
was  indeed  his  strength.  "  Now  He  makes  me  happy  all 
day  long,"  he  had  written  to  Mr.  Berger  a  Httle  earlier, 
"  makes  my  work  light,  and  gives  me  joy  in  seeing  Him 
blessing  others.  How  can  I  but  rejoice  !  I  have  no  fear 
now  of  our  work  being  too  heavy  for  Him,  either  out  here 
or  in  the  home  department." 

To  Mr.  Reid  at  Nanking,  Oct.  18  :  **  My  heart  warms  towards 
you  as  I  sit  down  to  write.  Business  is  very  pressing,  but  it 
does  not  hinder  my  joy  in  the  Lord.  ...  I  enclose  the  first 
six  pages  of  your  valuable  little  book,  and  am  buying  Chinese 
type  to  print  it." 

Same  day,  to  Mr.  Cordon  :  "  My  soul  is  so  happy  in  the  Lord  ! 
and  as  I  think  of  the  blessing  He  gave  me  on  the  happy  day 
when  we  all  met  here  together,  I  know  not  how  sufficiently  to 
thank  and  praise  Him.  Truly  Jesus  is  the  great  need  of  our 
souls.  And  He  is  the  great  gift  of  our  Father's  love — Who  gave 
Him /or  us,  and  makes  us  one  with  Him  in  resurrection  life  and 
power.  .  .  .  The  mission  funds  are  lower  than  they  were  before." 

From  Yang-chow,  Oct.  27  :  "  Our  work  here  is  very  encourag- 
ing at  present.  We  cannot  too  much  thank  God  for  this.  Five 
persons  have  been  baptized  .  .  .  eight  others  are  about  ready 
to  be  received,  and  several  more  will,  I  trust,  follow  after  a  little 
time.  It  is  the  Provincial  Examination  at  present,  and  the 
daily  congregations  are  large  and  attentive.  ...  I  quite  think 
we  shall  see  great  things  here,  for  we  are  one  with  Jesus." 

To  Mr.  Jackson  at  Tai-chow-fu,  Oct.  30  :  "I  would  ask  you 
to  remember  funds  in  prayer  :  they  are  lower  than  they  have 
ever  been.  Yet  we  are  not  and  have  not  been  forsaken,  or  lacking 
really  :  and  we  assuredly  shall  not  be,  if  we  have  faith  as  a 
grain  of  mustard  seed.  .  .  .  The  precious  truths  we  talked  over 
together  (at  Ningpo)  make  me  happy  all  the  day.  I  hope  you 
find  it  so  too." 

Postscript  to  a  letter  to  An-king,  Oct.  31 :  "  It  occurs  to  me 
to  add  that  some  of  the  members  of  the  Mission  may  be  unaware 
of  the  amount  of  labour  involved  in  serving  them.  It  is  a  reed 
pleasure,  but  it  is  none  the  less  onerous.  For  instance,  I  have 
to  write  to  Mr.  Miiller  to  thank  him  for  your  cheque  ;  to  Mr. 
Lord  asking  him  kindly  to  sell  it  as  he  gets  a  better  price  than 
the  Shanghai  Banks  will  give  ;    then  to  enter  it  in  his  account 


THE  EXCHANGED  LIFE  179 

and  in  my  cash  account ;  then  to  send  the  amount  to  Mr.  Hart, 
with  a  note  requesting  him  kindly  to  forward  it.  Of  course,  I 
must  also  advise  you  of  it,  but  this  may  not  involve  special 
writing.  I  thank  God  for  permitting  me  to  be  a  hewer  of  wood 
and  drawer  of  water  in  His  glorious  work,  and  do  cheerfully 
what  Httle  I  can  to  help,  only  regretting  tlie  impossibihty  of 
doing  all  that  all  wish.  Just  now  I  have  seven  different  portions 
of  Old  and  New  Testament  (whole  books)  and  long  tracts  sent 
me  in  several  dialects,  with  requests  to  revise  them.  This,  if 
possible  at  all,  is  the  work  of  weeks  if  not  months.  Yet  I  am 
praying  for  guidance  as  to  whether  I  may  not  have  to  leave 
to-night  for  one  of  our  most  distant  stations,  on  account  of  a 
case  of  sickness." 

It  was  a  serious  test  in  November  when  tidings  came  of 
an  uprising  in  An-king,  the  newly  opened  station  which  was 
their  farthest  point  inland.  Mr.  Taylor  was  on  a  journey  at 
the  time,  and  out  of  reach  of  letters,  and  the  first  he  heard 
of  it  w^as  a  rumour  that  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Meadows  and  Mr. 
Wilhamson  had  all  been  killed. 

"  What  shall  we  say  ?  "  he  wrote  in  suspense  that  would 
have  been  anguish,  as  he  travelled  with  aU  haste  to  Chin-kiang. 
"  '  Father,  glorify  Thy  Name,"  though  the  flesh  is  weak  and 
trembles.  Jesus  is  our  strength  ;  and  what  we  cannot  do  or 
bear  He  can  both  do  and  bear  in  us.  .  .  .  We  are  not  our  own, 
nor  is  the  work  ours.  He  Whose  we  are  and  Whom  we  serve 
will  not  prove  unequal  to  the  emergency." 

To  his  relief  he  found  that  the  report  had  been  exagger- 
ated. The  riot  was  indeed  a  serious  affair,  but  the  mission- 
aries had  escaped  with  their  lives,  even  the  little  children 
being  uninjured.  Judging  by  the  troubles  that  had  grown 
out  of  the  Yang-chow  riot,  however,  this  might  be  far  from 
the  end  of  the  matter.  Already  adverse  criticism  at  home 
had  resulted  in  a  lessening  of  funds,  so  that  in  four  months 
— May  to  September — less  had  been  received  by  a  thousand 
pounds  than  in  the  corresponding  period  of  the  previous  year. 
This  would  have  caused  Mr.  Taylor  considerable  anxiety, 
especially  in  view  of  the  new  complications,  but  for  the 
reality  of  the  blessing  that  had  come  to  him. 

"  You  wiU  have  heard  from  other  quarters,"  he  wrote  to 
Mr.  Berger  in  December,  "  of  An-king  affcdrs.     The  Lord  has 


i8o         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

kept  my  soul  in  peace  about  the  whole  thing.  From  the  first  I 
could  not  but  see  that  the  opponents  of  missions,  especially  those 
opposed  to  us,  naight  make  an  unfavourable  use  of  it.  But  the 
Lord  reigns.  We  are  serving  Him,  He  knows  at  what  cost  and 
in  Whose  strength.     He  will  not  leave  His  own  work.  .  .  . 

"I  see  no  objection  to  your  referring  to  the  state  of  funds 
in  writing  to  various  members  of  the  Mission  ;  you  would  not 
seek  to  depress  their  spirit,  but  rather  to  turn  them  from  man 
to  God,  the  almighty,  unfailing  One. 

"  Oh  1  dear  Brother,  the  one  thing  we  need  is  to  be  brought 
into  more  vivid  reahsation  of  our  nearness  to,  oneness  with  Him. 
Almost  all  our  difficulties  would  have  been  either  obviated  or 
better  met  had  we  had  this  more  truly  in  our  hearts.  Difficulties 
greater  and  more  serious  than  I  have  ever  had  crowd  around  me. 
The  last  few  months  have  been  of  unparalleled  pressure  and 
constant  movement ;  but  I  have  enjoyed  more  leisure  of  soul 
and  rest  of  spirit  than  ever  before,  and  more  joy  in  the  Lord. 
If  satisfied  with  His  will  and  way,  there  is  rest. 

"  Should  there  be  another  typhoon  over  the  An-king  riot 
do  not  be  cast  down.  The  Lord  will  strengthen  you  and  us  by 
His  own  might  to  bear  much  more  than  this.  .  .  .  When  Jew 
and  Roman  combined  to  oppose,  God  carried  through  His 
cause  ;  and  He  will  still  carry  it  through." 

To  his  mother  he  wrote  also  : 

I  am  more  happy  in  the  Lord  than  I  have  ever  been,  and 
enjoy  more  leisure  of  soul,  casting  more  fully  every  burden  on 
Him  Who  alone  is  able  to  bear  all.  To  be  content  with  God's 
will  and  way  is  rest.  Things  may  not  be  in  many  respects  as 
I  would  wish  them  ;  but  if  God  permits  them  to  be  so,  or  so  orders 
them,  I  may  well  be  content.  Mine  is  to  obey.  His  to  direct. 
Hence  I  am  not  only  able  to  bear  up  against  the  new  trial  at 
An-king  but  to  be  fully  satisfied  about  it,  not  to  wish  it  other- 
wise, but  to  thank  God  for  it.  "  Even  so.  Father,  for  so  it  seemed 
good  in  Thy  sight."  Still,  you  will  pray  much  for  us  all,  will 
you  not  ?  ^ 

Christmas  that  year  was  a  very  happy  season,  spent  by 

1  Written  in  a  boat,  near  Yang-chow,  December  4,  1869.  By  the 
blessing  of  God  the  missionaries  were  not  only  reinstated  at  An-king  with- 
out special  difficulty,  but  the  station  became  the  centre  from  which  a  wide- 
spread work  was  carried  on  in  districts  never  before  reached  by  the  Gospel ; 
and  when  Yang-chow  developed  into  a  receiving  home  for  the  women  of 
the  Mission,  where  they  could  have  special  help  in  the  study  of  the  language, 
An-king  came  to  fill  the  same  important  role  for  the  men.  Both  are  to 
this  day  training  homes  of  the  Mission. 


THE  EXCHANGED  LIFE  i8i 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  with  their  family  in  Yang-chow.  That 
its  festivities  did  not  centre  around  roast  beef  and  plum 
pudding  may  be  judged  from  the  recollections  of  Mr.  C.  T. 
Fishe,  who  had  recently  arrived  from  home. 

'*  I  was  very  young  at  the  time,"  he  wrote,  "  and  was  much 
touched  by  Mr.  Taylor's  amiabihty.  He  was  very  kind  to  me. 
I  helped  him  in  his  dispensary  and  medical  work,  and  v/as  with 
him  a  good  deal  whenever  he  was  in  Yang-chow.  He  guided 
my  studies,  and  was  keen  on  the  aspirates.  He  was,  of  course, 
exceedingly  busy,  and  appeared  quite  a  young  and  Hvely  man. 
He  loved  playing  with  his  children,  and  did  not  seem  burdened 
with  care.  He  was  fond  of  music  and  singing,  and  used  to  play 
the  harmonium  for  the  Chinese  on  Sunday  evenings  for  an  hour 
at  a  time,  and  have  them  sing  hymns.  .  .  . 

"  His  favourite  theme  in  those  days  was  the  fifteenth  chapter 
of  John.  We  had  many  helpful  times  of  prayer  and  study. 
He  seemed  to  be  growing  much  in  spiritual  things,  and  that 
passage  was  his  special  dehght.  The  noon  prayer  meeting  was 
held  daily.  Times  of  Refreshing  was  our  favourite  hymn-book, 
and  we  often  sang  *  Praise  the  Saviour '  and  '  Immanuel's  Land.'  " 

As  to  the  household  arrangements  : 

"  They  lived  exclusively  on  Chinese  food,"  he  continued, 
*'  and  I  well  remember  the  difficulty  we  had  in  hunting  up  a 
knife,  fork  and  spoon  when  a  foreigner  unskilled  in  the  use  of 
chopsticks  came  to  Yang-chow.  Condensed  milk  was  not  yet 
on  the  market,  and  they  used  few  if  any  foreign  stores.  There 
was  one  luxury,  however — a  big  barrel  of  treacle  that  had  recently 
come  out  on  the  Lammermuir.  This  was  eaten  with  rice  and 
much  appreciated." 

That  they  were  feeling  the  shortness  of  funds  and  doing 
all  they  could  to  lessen  personal  expenses,  so  as  to  be  able 
to  help  their  fellow- workers,  is  evident  from  a  letter  written 
at  the  end  of  December  in  which  Mr.  Taylor  said  : 

I  am  thankful  to  be  able  to  send  you  seventy-five  dollars  for 
your  own  use,  and  the  same  sum  for  the  school.  You  must 
husband  the  latter  to  the  utmost.  More  than  a  thousand  pounds 
less  have  been  contributed  during  the  first  half  of  this  (financial) 
year  than  last  year.  I  do  not  keep  a  cook  now.  I  find  it  cheaper 
to  get  cooked  food  brought  in  from  outside  at  a  dollar  a  head 
per  month.  Miss  Faulding's  school  at  Hang-chow  costs  her  a 
trifle  more  than  this,  with  a  cook  in  the  house.  Let  us  pray  in 
faith  for  funds,  that  we  may  not  have  to  diminish  our  work. 


i82        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

To  diminish  one's  comforts  seemed  to  him  of  small 
account ;  but  "  to  diminish  our  work  " — well,  thank  God, 
that  was  something  he  never  had  to  do.  Four  shillings  a 
head  per  month  for  board  expenses,  and  food  brought  in 
ready  cooked  from  an  eating-house,  might  be  regarded  by 
some  as  "  missionary  hardship."  But  they  were  thoroughly 
happy  in  their  Chinese  surroundings,  living  very  much  in 
touch  with  the  people  and  very  near  the  Lord. 

And  then,  on  New  Year's  Eve,  a  beautiful  thing  happened 
— a  token  for  good  reached  them  that  was  as  cheering  as  it 
was  unexpected. 

**  My  dear  Brother,"  Mr.  George  Miiller  had  written  in  October, 
*'  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  China  is  more  and  more  laid  on  my 
heart,  and  hence  I  have  been  longing  and  praying  to  be  able 
to  assist  it  more  and  more  with  means,  as  well  as  with  prayer. 
Of  late  I  have  especially  had  a  desire  to  help  all  the  dear  brethren 
and  sisters  with  you  with  pecuniary  means.  This  I  desired 
especially  that  they  might  see  that  I  was  interested  in  them  all. 
This  my  desire  the  Lord  has  fulfilled,  and  I  now  send  you  a  cheque 
for  £io  for  Miss  Blatchley,  £io  for  Miss  Bowyer,  £io  for  Miss 
Desgraz.  £25  for  Mr.  Harvey,  £25  for  Mr.  C.  T.  Fishe,  £25  for 
Mr.  Reid,  £25  for  Mr.  Jackson,  £25  for  Mr.  Stott,  £25  for  Mr. 
Ed.  Fishe,  £25  for  Mr.  Rudland,  £25  for  Mr.  Cordon.  Be  pleased 
to  convey  these  cheques  to  each,  with  the  request  to  acknowledge 
the  receipt  of  the  amount. 

"  Likewise  I  enclose  a  letter  for  all  the  dear  brethren  and 
sisters  connected  with  the  China  Inland  Mission.  May  I  ask 
you,  dear  Brother,  to  let  it  be  read  by  all  who  are  now  with  you  ; 
and  would  you  kindly  have  it  copied  out  for  those  who  are  not 
with  you,  to  send  it  to  them  with  their  money.  I  feel  how  I 
burden  you  ;  but  I  think  it  would  be  a  service  to  the  Lord  to 
let  the  dear  brethren  and  sisters  see,  individually,  how  interested 
I  am  in  them." 

The  eleven  cheques  enclosed  were  for  all  the  members  of 
the  Mission  to  whom  Mr.  Miiller  had  not  previously  been 
ministering.     Writing  by  the  same  mail  Mr.  Berger  said  : 

Mr.  Miiller,  after  due  consideration,  has  requested  the  names 
of  all  the  brethren  and  sisters  connected  with  the  C.I.M.,  as  he 
thinks  it  well  to  send  help  as  he  is  able  to  each  one,  unless  we 
know  of  anything  to  hinder.  .  .  .  Surely  the  Lord  knew  our 


THE  EXCHANGED  LIFE  183 

funds  were  sinking,  and  thus  put  it  into  the  heart  of  His  honoured 
servant  to  help.^ 

But  it  was  not  money  only  ;  it  was  the  loving  sympathy 
of  such  a  man  of  God,  and  the  prayerful  interest  with  which 
his  gifts  were  followed  that  made  them  so  precious. 

"  My  chief  object,"  he  wrote  in  his  letter  to  the  missionaries, 
"  is  to  tell  you  that  I  love  you  in  the  Lord  ;  that  I  feel  deeply 
interested  about  the  Lord's  work  in  China,  and  that  I  pray  daily 
for  you.  I  thought  it  might  be  a  Uttle  encouragement  to  you  in 
your  difficulties,  trials,  hardships  and  disappointments  to  hear 
of  one  more  who  felt  for  you  and  who  remembered  you  before 
the  Lord.  But  were  it  otherwise,  had  you  even  no  one  to  care 
for  you,  or  did  you  at  least  seem  to  be  in  a  position  as  if  no  one 
cared  for  you,  you  will  always  have  the  Lord  to  be  with  you. 
Remember  Paul's  case  at  Rome  (2  Tim.  iv.  16-18).  On  Him 
then  reckon,  to  Him  look,  on  Him  depend  ;  and  be  assured,  if 
you  walk  with  Him  and  look  to  Him,  and  expect  help  from  Him, 
He  will  never  fail  you.  An  older  brother  who  has  known  the 
Lord  forty-four  years,  who  writes  this,  says  to  you  for  your 
encouragement  that  He  has  never  failed  him.  In  the  greatest 
difficulties,  in  the  heaviest  trials,  in  the  deepest  poverty  and 
necessities,  He  has  never  failed  me  ;  but,  because  I  was  enabled 
by  His  grace  to  trust  in  Him,  He  has  always  appeared  for  my 
help.     I  delight  in  speaking  well  of  His  Name." 

1  Mr.  Miiller's  gifts  for  the  next  few  years  amounted  to  nearly  ;^2ooo 
annually.  In  1870  he  sent  Mr.  Taylor  ;^i940.  He  was  now  largely  assist- 
ing twenty-one  missionaries,  who  with  twelve  wives  constituted  the  entire 
gtaff  of  the  Mission — thirty-three,  including  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor. 


CHAPTER   XIII 

JESUS   DOES   SATISFY 
1869-1870.     Aet.  37-38. 

To  Mrs.  Taylor  the  new  life  that  had  come  to  her  husband 
and  many  of  their  fellow- workers  was  a  joy  not  unmixed 
with  wonder.  The  experiences  they  were  finding  as  some- 
thing new  and  further  had  long  been  her  secret  of  victory 
and  peace.  "  It  was  just  resting  in  Jesus/'  as  she  expressed 
it,  "  and  letting  Him  do  the  work  " — a  httle  sentence,  but 
one  that  really  lived  out  made  her  hfe  the  strength  to  the 
mission  that  Mr.  Taylor  had  often  reahsed  it  to  be.  And 
now  husband  and  wife  were  one  in  a  new  way,  and  helpers 
of  each  other's  faith.  During  their  first  separation  after 
that  time  of  blessing,  he  wrote  from  Hang-chow  (November 
9,  1869)  : 

It  is  a  bright,  sunny  morning,  but  the  sunshine  without  is 
as  nothing  to  the  sunshine  within.  He  has  taught  me  something 
of  what  is  meant  by  "  Rejoice  in  the  Lord  "  ;  and  rejoice  I  must, 
and  rejoice  I  do.  I  want  you  too  to  have  fellowship,  partnership 
in  this  joy.  It  is  not  that  I  have  anything  new  to  tell  you,  but 
I  am  feeling  it  aU  anew.  I  have  hitherto  used  the  words 
"  Rejoice  in  the  Lord  "  as  meaning  in  our  oneness  with  Him, 
or  in  the  measure  of  His  grace  imparted  to  us  or  working  in  us. 
Of  course  it  is  not  this.  At  other  times  it  has  been  more  the 
thought  of  rejoicing  in  fellowship  with  Him — in  that  which  gives 
Him  joy,  or  which  is  ensured  to  us  in  Him.  .  .  .  Yet,  clearly, 
it  is  not  this  either.  I  now  see  it  is  not  in  what  He  is  to  me,  not 
in  what  He  is  working,  or  has  worked,  or  may  work  in,  for  or 
by  me,  but  in  Himself  I  am  to  rejoice  ;  in  what  He  is  and  has 
in  Himself  absolutely. 

184 


JESUS  DOES  SATISFY  185 

And  this,  it  ajbpears  to  me,  is  the  only  possible  or  even  legiti- 
mate ground  for  constant,  unchanging,  full  joy.  We  cannot  but 
rejoice,  when  our  oneness  with  Him  is  reahsed,  in  His  precious- 
ness,  grace,  love,  hohness,  indeed  in  all  His  perfections.  He  is 
"  the  same,  yesterday,  and  to-day  and  for  ever."  If  our  joy 
be  in  His  keeping  down  sin  in  us,  a  fall  or  two  destroys  that ; 
if  it  be  in  His  working  in  or  through  us,  we  may  not  be  conscious 
of  the  measure  in  which  He  is  doing  so,  and  may  be  puffed  up 
or  cast  down  without  due  reason  ;  but  if  it  be  in  Him  as  He 
is,  this  cannot  change  or  fluctuate.  .  .  .  Ah,  my  darhng,  what 
ground  for  changeless  joy  we  have  in  Jesus  I 

The  beauty  of  their  Ufe  together  was  specially  seen  at 
Yang-chow,  which  was  more  home  to  them  than  any  of 
the  other  stations.  There  the  children  were  left  with  Miss 
Blatchley  when  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  were  away  on  journeys, 
and  there  they  had  the  joy  of  reunion,  and  happy  fellowship 
with  their  colleagues  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Judd. 

"  The  Lord  is  greatly  working  in  this  city,"  Miss  Blatchley 
wrote  at  the  end  of  1869.  "  The  converts  here  are  different  from 
any  others  we  have  known  in  China.  There  is  such  Hfe,  warmth, 
earnestness  about  them." 

Noticing  that  Mr.  Judd  was  suffering  in  health  at  this 
time,  Mr.  Taylor  wished  to  secure  his  getting  more  exercise. 
Duncan,  who  was  something  of  a  farmer,  was  going  up  the 
Grand  Canal  on  an  evangelistic  journey,  and  it  was  quite 
natural  to  ask  him  to  purchase  and  bring  back  a  nice  little 
horse  for  riding  if  he  came  across  one.  Mr.  Taylor  was 
away  when  the  horse  arrived,  but  knowing  it  to  be  his 
intention  to  ride  it,  Mr.  Judd  obtained  a  good  native  saddle, 
bridle,  etc.,  and  kept  the  animal  exercised.  This  was  just 
what  Mr.  Taylor  wished.  Too  busy  on  his  return  to  go  out 
himself,  he  asked  Mr.  Judd  kindly  to  continue  "  doing  good 
deeds  "  in  this  way,  and  when  leaving  again  charged  him  to 
remember  that  the  horse  needed  exercise. 

"  Did  Mr.  Taylor  never  ride  it  ?  "  we  asked  on  hearing 
the  story. 

"No,  never  !  he  was  far  too  busy.  But  he  was  careful 
to  pay  its  expenses.  It  was  simply  his  way  of  providing 
horse  exercise  for  one  who  could  not  otherwise  have  taken  it. 


i86         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

And  it  did  me  a  world  of  good.  I  exercised  that  pony  not  a 
little,  going  to  villages  to  preach,  and  had  some  remarkable 
experiences  with  it.  But  he  was  just  like  tliat,  all  through. 
In  doing  kindnesses,  he  would  scarcely  let  you  know,  much 
less  feel,  that  you  were  under  any  obligation.  And  Mrs. 
Taylor  was  just  the  same,  loving,  unselfish,  thoughtful  of 
others." 

"  Was  she  really  kept  free  from  care  amid  the  practical 
concerns  of  everj^day  life  ?  " 

*'  Wonderfully  so  !   I  never  saw  her  worried." 

"  Not  with  Chinese  servants,  or  with  the  children  ?  " 

"  Not   with   servants,    children,    or    anything   else !     I 

never  recall  any  part  of  her  conduct,  in  the  few  years  I  was 

privileged  to  know  her,  without  seeing  her  face  shining  with 

the  brightness  that  comes  from  the  Holy  Spirit's  anointing." 

"  How  does  the  branch  bear  fruit  ?  "  asked  Mrs.  Harriet 
Beecher  Stowe  in  her  little  booklet  on  How  to  live  on  Christ. 
"  Not  by  incessant  effort  lor  sunshine  and  air ;  not  by  vain 
struggles  for  those  vivifying  influences  which  give  beauty  to 
the  blossom,  and  verdure  to  the  leaf :  it  simply  abides  in  the 
vine,  in  silent  and  undisturbed  union,  and  blossoms  and  fruit 
appear  as  of  spontaneous  growth. 

"  How,  then,  shall  a  Christian  bear  fruit  ?  By  efforts  and 
struggles  to,  obtain  that  which  is  freely  given  ;  by  meditations 
on  watchfulness,  on  prayer,  on  action,  on  temptation,  and  on 
dangers  ?  No  :  there  must  be  a  full  concentration  of  the  thoughts 
and  affections  on  Christ  ;  a  complete  surrender  of  the  whole 
being  to  Him  ;  a  constant  looking  to  Him  for  grace.  Christians 
in  whom  these  d'spositions  are  once  firmly  fixed  go  on  calmly 
as  the  infant  borne  in  the  arms  of  its  mother.  Christ  reminds 
/them  of  every  duty  in  its  time  and  place,  reproves  them  for 
\  every  error,  counsels  them  in  every  difficulty,  excites  them  to 
every  needful  activity.  In  spiritual  as  in  temporal  matters 
they  take  no  thought  for  the  morrow  ;  for  they  know  that 
Christ  will  be  as  accessible  to-morrow  as  to-day,  and  that  time 
imposes  no  barrier  on  His  love.  Their  hope  and  trust  rest  solely 
on  what  He  is  willing  and  able  to  do  for  them  ;  on  nothing  that 
they  suppose  themselves  able  and  willing  to  do  for  Him.  Their 
talisman  for  every  temptation  and  sorrow  is  their  oft-repeated 
child-like  surrender  of  their  whole  being  to  Him." 

Nothing  could  more  truly  describe  the  experience  into 


JESUS  DOES  SATISFY  187 

which   Mr.    Taylor   was   being   brought,    and   which   Mrs. 
Taylor  so  fully  shared  with  him.^ 

That  such  blessing  should  be  tested  by  increasing  trials 
is  not  to  be  wondered  at.  Inwardly  and  outwardly  the 
period  upon  which  they  were  entering  was  to  be  one  of 
unprecedented  distress.  In  the  work  they  were  to  experi- 
ence the  power  of  the  adversary  as  never  before,  while  in 
personal  matters  new  and  deep  sorrows  awaited  them. 
But  for  the  preparation  of  heart  which  unconsciously  to 
themselves  had  thus  been  made,  things  would  have  gone 
very  differently  both  with  Mr.  Taylor  and  with  the  Mission. 

The  shadow  of  a  cross  falls  deep  and  broad  ; 

With  Thee  I  enter,  tremblingly,  the  shade  : — 
Whence  this  new  hght  which  brightens  round  me.  Lord  ? 

"  The  fellowship  of  suffering,"  He  said.^ 

To  begin  with,  the  time  had  come  for  breaking  up  that 
happy  family  hfe  which  meant  so  much  to  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Taylor.  They  dared  not  risk  another  summer  for  their 
elder  children  in  China,  and  the  deHcate  health  of  Samuel, 
who  was  only  five  years  old,  made  it  clear  that  he  should  go 
with  his  brothers  and  sister.  This  meant  separation  from 
four  of  their  Httle  flock,  leaving  only  the  baby  bom  after  the 
Yang-chow  riot  to  ease  the  aching  lonehness.  For  some  time 
it  was  a  question  as  to  whether  the  mother  should  not  go 
herself,  but  the  necessity  for  this  seemed  obviated  when  Miss 
Blatchley  volunteered  to  take  her  place  in  caring  for  the 
children.  To  part  from  her  was  almost  like  giving  up  a 
daughter,  so  devoted  had  she  been  in  sharing  all  their  experi- 
ences. But  she  truly  loved  the  children,  and  Mr.  Taylor 
was  ready  to  forgo  her  secretarial  help  in  order  that  Mrs. 
Taylor  might  remain  in  China.  Plan  as  he  might,  they 
could  not  see  far  ahead,  and  could  only  trust  the  little  party 
to  a  care  infinitely  wiser  and  more  tender  than  their  own. 

"  God  will  provide.  Oh,  He  is  a  Father  !  "  Mr.  Taylor  wrote 
in  this  connection.     "  My  precious  Mother,  you  can  enter  some- 

1  The  booklet  quoted  above  was  one  they  specially  valued.  Mr, 
Taylor  sent  one  to  every  member  of  the  Mission  at  this  time.  It  had 
appeared  in  full  as  an  article  in  The  Revival. 

2  Lines  written  by  Miss  Blatchley  a  few  months  later. 


i88         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

what  into  our  feelings  as  this  dark  cloud  draws  near.  Sometimes 
it  seems,  for  awhile,  to  take  all  one's  strength  and  heart  away, 
but  God  does  and  will  help  us.  It  is  so  good  of  Him  to  have  given 
us  to  know  more  than  we  ever  have  known  of  His  heart.  His 
love.  His  gift,  His  joy,  before  calling  us  to  take  this  step.  We 
know  as  we  did  not  that  we  can  do  all  things  through  Christ  our 
Strengthener,  and  would  not  faint  nor  be  ungrateful.  And  there 
are  many  mercies  connected  with  this  trial.  Dear  Miss  Blatchley's 
love  and  self-sacrifice  we  can  never  repay.  Next  to  ourselves, 
the  children  love  her  and  she  them.  She  knows  just  what  our 
wishes  are  regarding  them,  in  sickness  and  in  health.  I  am  sure 
you  will  do  what  you  can  to  help  her  .  .  .  and  you  will  specially 
pray  for  my  dear  Maria.  When  all  the  bustle  of  preparation 
and  the  excitement  of  departure  are  over,  then  will  come  the 
trying  time  of  reaction.  But  the  Lord,  Whose  work  calls  for 
the  separation,  can  and  will  support  her." 

Very  painful  it  was,  as  the  time  drew  near,  to  see  the 
parting  begin  to  tell  upon  the  child  about  whom  they  were 
most  concerned.  Or  was  it  only  that  his  chronic  trouble 
had  increased,  and  that  with  care  the  voyage  would  set  him 
up  again  ?  Taking  the  opportunity  of  a  decided  improve- 
ment, the  family  set  out  from  Yang-chow,  accompanied  by 
Mr.  Harvey  and  Mr.  Fishe.  The  boats  were  delayed  in 
starting,  and  hardly  had  they  got  clear  of  the  city  when 
the  little  invalid  showed  signs  of  a  relapse.  All  night  long 
they  watched  beside  him,  doing  everything  that  could  be 
done  under  the  circumstances.  But  at  daw^n  the  following 
morning  he  fell  into  a  deep  sleep,  and  from  the  turbid  waters 
of  the  Yangtze  passed  without  pain  or  fear  to  the  Better 
Land. 

Before  a  driving  storm  the  parents  crossed  the  river, 
there  more  than  two  miles  wide,  to  lay  their  treasure  in  the 
little  cemetery  at  Chin-kiang,  and  then  went  on  with  the 
others  to  Shanghai.  A  few  weeks  later,  after  taking  them 
all  on  board  the  French  mail  which  was  to  sail  at  dawn  the 
following  morning,  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  at  midnight :  ^ 

"  I  have  seen  them  awake,  for  the  last  time  in  China  ..." 
(He  was  returning  to  fetch  Mrs.  Taylor  who  was  still  on  board.) 
"  Two  of  our  Uttle  ones  we  have  no  anxiety  about ;    they  rest 


To  Mr.  Berger,  March  22,  1870. 


JESUS  DOES  SATISFY  189 

in  Jesus'  bosom.  And  now,  dear  Brother,  though  the  tears  will 
not  be  stayed,  I  do  thank  God  for  permitting  one  so  unworthy 
to  take  any  part  in  this  great  work,  and  do  not  regret  having 
engaged  and  being  engaged  in  it.  It  is  His  work,  not  mine  nor 
yours :  and  yet  it  is  ours — not  because  we  are  engaged  in  it, 
but  because  we  are  His,  and  one  with  Him  Whose  work  it  is." 

This  was  the  reality  that  sustained,  and  more  than 
sustained  them.  Never  had  there  been  a  more  troubled 
summer  in  China  than  that  on  which  they  were  entering. 

"  PoHticaUy,  we  are  facing  a  crisis,"  Mr.  Taylor  had  written 
some  weeks  earher.  "  If  our  Government  continues  their  present, 
I  had  almost  said  mad  policy,  war  must  result.  In  the  mean- 
time our  position  is  becoming  always  more  embarrassing.  .  .  . 
You  can  scarcely  judge  how  intricate  our  path  seems  at  times."  ^ 

And  yet  in  the  midst  of  it  all,  with  a  longing  for  their 
little  ones  that  was  indescribable,  they  never  had  had  more 
rest  and  joy  in  God. 

"  I  could  not  but  admire  and  wonder  at  the  grace  that  so 
sustained  and  comforted  the  fondest  of  mothers,"  Mr.  Taylor 
wrote  as  he  recalled  it  afterwards.  "  The  secret  wa^  that  Jesus 
was  satisfying  the  deep  thirst  of  heart  and  soul." 

Mrs.  Taylor  was  at  her  best  that  summer,  borne  up,  it 
would  seem,  on  the  very  tempest  of  troubles  that  raged  about 
them.  Sickness  was  rife  in  the  Mission,  and  before  they 
could  reach  Chin-kiang  after  parting  from  the  children,  news 
came  to  them  of  Mrs.  Judd's  being  there  and  at  the  point  of 
death.  After  days  and  nights  of  nursing,  Mr.  Judd  was 
almost  too  weary  to  bear  up,  when  in  the  courtyard  below 
he  heard  sounds  of  an  unexpected  arrival.  Who  could  it  be 
at  that  hour  of  night,  and  where  had  they  come  from  ?  No 
steamer  had  passed  up-river,  and  native  boats  would  not  be 
travelhng  after  dark.  Besides  it  was  a  wheelbarrow  that 
had  been  trundled  in.  A  long  day's  journey  on  that  spring- 
less  vehicle  a  woman  had  come  alone,  and  soon  he  saw  the 
face  of  all  others  he  could  have  longed  to  see.  He  had 
thought  them  far  away,  but  Mr.  Taylor,  who  could  not  leave 
the  boat  on  account  of  another  patient,  had  consented  to 
Mrs.  Taylor's  pressing  on  alone  to  give  what  help  she  could, 

»  To  Mr.  Berger,  February  ii,  1870. 


iQO         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

"  Suffering  though  she  was  at  the  thue  and  worn  with  hard 
travelling,"  he  recalled,  "  she  insisted  on  my  going  to  bed  and 
that  she  would  undertake  the  nursing.  Nothing  would  induce 
her  to  rest. 

"  '  No,'  she  said,  '  you  have  quite  enough  to  bear,  without 
sitting  up  any  more  at  night.  Go  to  bed,  for  I  shall  stay  with 
your  wife  whether  you  do  or  not.' 

"  Never  can  I  forget  the  firmness  and  love  with  which  it 
was  said,  her  face  shining  meanwhile  with  the  tenderness  of  Him 
in  Whom  it  was  her  joy  and  strength  to  abide." 

Nothing  but  prayer  brought  the  patient  through,  just  as 
nothing  but  prayer  saved  the  situation  in  many  an  hour  of 
extremity  that  summer. 

"  We  had  previously  known  something  of  trial  in  one  station 
or  another,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  to  the  friends  of  the  Mission, 
"  but  now  in  all  simultaneously,  or  nearly  so,  a  wide-spread 
excitement  shook  the  very  foundations  of  native  society.  It  is 
impossible  to  describe  the  alarm  and  consternation  of  the  Chinese, 
when  first  they  beUeved  that  native  magicians  were  bewitching 
them,  or  their  indignation  and  anger  when  told  that  these  in- 
sidious foes  were  the  agents  of  foreigners.  It  is  well  known  how 
in  Tien-tsin  they  rose  and  barbarously  murdered  the  Romish 
Sisters  of  Charity,  the  priests,  and  even  the  French  Consul. 
What  then  restrained  them  in  the  interior,  where  our  brothers 
were  alone,  far  from  any  protecting  human  power  ?  Nothing 
but  the  mighty  hand  of  God,  in  answer  to  united,  constant  prayer, 
offered  in  the  all-prevaiHng  name  of  Jesus.  And  this  same  power 
kept  lis  satisfied  with  Jesus — with  His  presence,  His  love.  His 
providence." 

It  is  easy  to  read,  but  only  those  who  have  passed  through 
like  experiences  can  have  any  idea  of  the  strain  involved. 
The  heat  of  the  summer  was  excessive,  which  added  to  the 
unrest  of  the  native  population.  Ladies  and  children  had 
to  be  removed  from  several  of  the  stations,  and  for  a  time  it 
seemed  as  though  the  Chinese  Government  might  insist  on 
their  leaving  the  country  altogether.  This  necessitated 
much  correspondence  with  officials,  both  native  and  foreign, 
and  constant  letters  of  advice  and  sympathy  to  the  workers 
most  in  peril.  The  accommodation  of  the  little  house  at  Chin- 
kiang  was  taxed  to  its  utmost,  and  so  great  was  the  excite- 
ment, even  there,  that  no  other  premises  could  be  obtained. 


JESUS  DOES  SATISFY  191 

*'  Old  times  seem  to  be  coming  round  again,"  Mr.  Taylor 
wrote  to  Miss  Blatchley  in  June  (referring  to  the  Yang-chow 
riot),  "  but  with  this  difference,  that  our  anxieties  are  not  as 
before  confined  to  one  place." 

By  this  time  it  looked  as  though  all  the  river-stations 
might  have  to  be  given  up.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  were 
making  their  home  at  Chin-kiang,  to  be  more  in  the  centre 
of  things,  he  sleeping  on  the  floor  in  sitting-room  or  passage 
that  she  might  share  their  bedroom  with  other  ladies. 

"  One  difficulty  follows  another  very  fast,"  he  wrote  to 
Hang-chow  at  the  end  of  the  month  ;  "but  God  reigns,  not  chance. 
At  Nanking  the  excitement  has  been  frightful.  .  .  .  Our  people 
have  met  with  no  insult,  even  on  the  streets,  but  had  the  Roman 
Catholic  place  been  sacked,  they  could  hardly  have  escaped 
scot-free.  We  need  to  pray  for  them,  for  the  three  months' 
Examination  have  barely  commenced  (bringing  tens  of  thousands 
of  scholars  to  the  city). 

"  Here  the  rumours  are,  I  hope,  passing  away,  but  at  Yang- 
chow  they  are  very  bad.  .  .  .  Pray  much  for  us.  My  heart  is 
calm,  but  my  head  is  sorely  tried  by  the  constant  succession  of 
one  •  difficulty  upon  another.  I  do  not  think  we  shall  have  to 
abandon  this  house  (Chin-kiang)." 

Yet  the  troubles  of  the  time  were  not  allowed  to  inter- 
fere with  as  much  work  among  the  people  as  was  possible. 
Mrs.  Taylor,  especially,  with  fewer  household  and  family 
cares,  was  seeking  to  help  the  little  church  at  Chin-kiang. 
In  the  hottest  days  of  June  she  wrote  to  Miss  Blatchley  : 

We  have  been  holding  classes  on  Sundays  and  two  or  three 
evenings  in  the  week,  having  two  objects  specially  in  view : 
first,  to  interest  the  natives,  those  who  can  read,  in  searching 
the  Scriptures,  and  those  who  cannot,  in  learning  to  do  so  ;  and 
secondly,  to  set  an  example  to  the  younger  members  of  the  Mission, 
who  know  pretty  weU  that  we  have  no  lack  of  work.  It  may  be 
a  practical  proof  to  them  of  the  importance  v/e  attach  to  securing 
that  the  Christians  and  other  natives  about  us  learn  to  read 
and  understand  for  themselves  the  Word  of  God. 

The  joy  that  had  come  to  Mr.  Taylor  in  a  deeper  appre- 
hension of  living,  present  oneness  with  Christ  seems  in  no- 
wise to  have  been  hindered  by  the  troubles  of  the  time. 
The  pages  of  his  letter-book  reveal,  in  fact,  not  so  much  the 


192         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

endless  difficulties  as  the  full  tide  of  blessing  that  carried 
him  through  all.  Though  no  detail  is  overlooked  in  the 
business  part  of  the  correspondence,  letter  after  letter  is 
taken  up  with  that  which  was  far  more  important.  To 
Miss  Desgraz,  for  example,  he  wrote  in  the  middle  of  June 
after  a  careful  letter  about  Yang-chow  affairs  : 

And  now,  my  dear  Sister,  I  have  the  very  passage  for  you, 
and  God  has  so  blessed  it  to  my  own  soul  1  John  vii.  37-39  : 
"  If  any  man  thirst,  let  him  come  unto  Me  and  drink."  Who 
does  not  thirst  ?  Who  has  not  mind-thirsts  or  heart-thirsts, 
soul-thirsts  or  body-thirsts  ?  Well,  no  matter  which,  or  whether 
I  have  them  all — "  Come  unto  Me  and"  remain  thirsty  ?  Ah, 
no  !   "  Come  unto  Me  and  drink." 

What,  can  Jesus  meet  my  need  ?  Yes,  and  more  than  meet 
it.  No  matter  how  intricate  my  path,  how  difficult  my  service 
no  matter  how  sad  my  bereavement,  how  far  away  my  loved 
ones,  no  matter  how  helpless  I  am,  how  hopeless  I  am,  how  deep 
are  my  soul-yearnings — Jesus  can  meet  all,  all,  and  more  than 
meet.  He  not  only  promises  me  rest  (Matt.  xi.  28-30) — ah,  how 
welcome  that  would  be  were  it  all,  and  what  an  all  that  one  word 
embraces  !  He  not  only  promises  me  drink  to  alleviat  my 
thirst.     No,  better  than  that  1 

"  He  who  trusts  me  in  this  matter  (who  belie veth  on  Me — 
takes  me  at  my  word)  out  of  him  sh^RJiow  .  .  ." 

Can  it  be  so  ?  Can  the  dry  and  thirsty  one  not  only  be 
refreshed,  the  parched  soil  moistened,  the  arid  places  cooled, 
but  the  land  be  so  saturated,  that  springs  well  up,  streams  flow 
down  from  it  ?  Even  so  !  And  not  mere  mountain  torrents, 
full  while  the  rains  last,  then  dry  again  .  .  .  but  "  out  of  his 
belly  shall  flow  rivers  " — rivers  like  the  mighty  Yangtze,  ever 
deep,  ever  full.  In  times  of  drought  brooks  may  fail,  often  do ; 
canals  may  be  pumped  dry,  often  are  ;  but  the  Yangtze  never. 
Always  a  mighty  stream  ;   always  flowing,  deep  and  irresistible  1 

"  '  Come  unto  me  and  drink,'  he  wrote  in  another  June  letter. 
"  Not,  come  and  take  a  hasty  draught ;  not,  come  and  sHghtly 
alleviate,  or  for  a  short  time  remove  one's  thirst.  No  !  '  drink,' 
or  '  be  drinking  '  constantly,  habitually.  The  cause  of  thirst 
may  be  irremediable.  One  coming,  one  drinking  may  refresh 
and  comfort ;  but  we  are  to  be  ever  coming,  ever  drinking. 
No  fear  of  empt3dng  the  fountain  or  exhausting  the  river  1  " 

How  sorely  the  lesson  would  be  needed  by  his  own  heart, 
in  days  that  were  drawing  near,  he  little  knew  when  writing  ; 
but  the  blessed  Reahty  did  not  fail  him. 


JESUS  DOES  SATISFY  193 

One  of  the  beautiful  things  of  this  summer  was  the  corre- 
spondence between  Mrs.  Taylor  and  Mrs.  Berger,  which 
was  growing,  if  anything,  more  helpful.  Though  four  years 
had  elapsed  since  they  parted  on  the  Lammermuir,  there 
was  rarely  a  mail  that  did  not  carry  letters  between  them. 
Ninety-one  of  Mrs.  Berger's  letters  remain,  reveaUng  a  love 
and  tenderness  that  are  imperishable.  And  what  labours, 
too,  they  disclose  ;  what  a  life  of  prayer  in  the  interests  of 
the  Mission  !  With  all  the  duties  of  her  position  and  the 
claim  of  hospitahty,  it  is  a  mystery  how  Mrs.  Berger  could 
accomphsh  so  much.  If  her  husband  was  head  of  the  home 
department,  she  certainly  was  its  heart  and  hands  ;  though 
her  work  was  done  so  quietly  that  a  visitor  might  have 
thought  she  was  hardly  busy  at  all.  The  results  were  felt, 
however,  in  every  station  of  the  Mission.  Like  Mr.  Miiller 
in  his  Orphan  Homes,  this  devoted  friend  carried  all  its 
workers  on  her  heart.  She  not  only  loved  and  prayed  for 
them,  she  thought  about  each  one  individually,  making 
notes  as  to  their  probable  needs.  Her  shopping  expeditions 
to  London  w^ere  well  prepared  for  in  this  way,  and  it  came 
to  be  a  common  experience  in  China  that  Mrs.  Berger's 
parcels  brought  answers  to  prayer  in  many  a  welcome  form. 

More  precious  than  her  gifts,  however,  was  the  spirit  of 
this  ministry,  of  which  glimpses  may  be  obtained  in  her 
letters  to  Mrs.  Taylor. 

'*  Oh,  that  our  hearts  were  larger,  more  loving,  more  sym- 
pathising," she  wrote  after  the  Yang-chow  riot,  "  and  our  heads 
wiser,  so  that  you  might  get  some  Uttle  help  through  us  !  '* 

He  will  love  you  through  aU,  and  be  to  you  what  you  most 
need  in  every  trpng  hour. 

He  and  you  have  had  dealings  in  secret,  and  therefore  He  can 
use  you  in  His  service  and  make  you  a  blessing  in  various  ways. 

Ah,  beloved  sister,  we  say  Httle  to  either  of  you,  but  much 
do  we  ponder  and  pray  over  your  accumulation  of  sorrows.  You 
are  Hving,  dying  for  Him  Who  hved  and  died  for  you.  I  look 
forward  to  the  day  when  my  eyes  shaU  see  the  smile  of  love  He 
will  give  you.  Even  now  you  have  the  consciousness  of  His 
approval,  and  does  it  not  suffice  ? 

Who  can  teach  like  God  ?  And  do  we  not  need  to  get  alone 
with  Him  if  we  would  be  filled  with  the  sunshine  of  heaven,  and 

o 


\./ 


194         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

so  become  useful  to  those  around  us  ?  Does  not  our  strength 
to  meet  difficulties,  perplexities,  annoyances,  sorrows  of  the  way, 
largely  depend  on  our  having  been  much  alone  with  Him  ? 

The  heart  that  trusts  forever  sings. 
And  feels  as  light  as  it  had  wings  ; 
A  well  of  joy  within  it  springs  : 

Come  good  or  ill, 
Whate'er  to-day  to-morrow  brings. 

It  is  His  will. 

It  was  not  easy  to  be  much  alone  that  summer,  yet  the 
loving  sympathy  that  flowed  out  in  constant  help  to  others 
told  of  much  inward*  fellowship  with  God.  After  a  wakeful 
night  in  the  middle  of  June,  partly  through  the  illness  from 
which  she  was  suffering  and  partly  on  account  of  the  great 
heat,  Mrs.  Taylor  managed,  for  example,  to  pen  the  follow- 
ing note  to  Mrs.  Rudland,  who  had  just  lost  a  much-loved 
child. 

My  dear  Mary — I  cannot  write  much,  but  I  send  a  line  to 
tell  you  that  our  hearts  grieve  and  our  eyes  weep  for  you.  May 
you  be  enabled  to  reahse  your  precious  Httle  one  as  safely  nestUng 
in  Jesu's  own  arms,  for  that  more  than  anything  else  will  help 
to  assuage  the  bitterness  of  the  painful  separation.  "  Them 
which  sleep  in  Jesus  will  God  bring  with  Him."  They  will  be 
restored  to  us  ;  they  wiU  be  ours  again — ours  for  ever.  And 
then  we  shall  be  able  to  understand  why  they  were  taken  from 
us  here.  Then  we  shaU  be  able  to  say  from  the  depth  of  our 
hearts,  "  Our  Jesus  has  done  all  things  well."  Meanwhile  let 
us  believe  this.  By  His  grace  we  will  not  doubt  either  His  love 
or  His  wisdom.  Let  us  chng  to  Him  when  His  waves  and  His 
biUows  go  over  us. 

Prayer  was  her  very  life  at  this  time.  It  had  long  meant 
much  to  her,  but  with  a  consciousness  of  faihng  strength  it 
came  to  be  in  a  new  sense  her  refuge. 

"  It  often  comforts  me  about  the  children,"  Miss  Blatchley 
wrote  some  months  later,  "  to  remember  how  much  she  prayed 
for  them.  I  have  seen  her  at  night,  when  she  thought  aU  were 
sleeping,  with  head  bowed,  kneehng  for  a  long,  long  time  on  the 
bare  floor.  And  when  I  picture  her  so,  I  always  feel  that  she 
was  praying  most  especially  for  you  and  the  dear  children." 

Far  away  were  those  little  ones  now,  and  she  longed 


JESUS  DOES  SATISFY  195 

with  all  a  mother's  longing  to  know  of  their  being  safely 
sheltered  somewhere  in  England.  With  thankfulness  amid 
the  trials  of  that  hot  season  she  thought  of  Saint  Hill — the 
cool  green  walks  and  pleasant  lake,  the  lawns  around  the 
house  and  the  atmosphere  of  love  within — and  pictured 
the  little  travellers  as  welcomed  to  Mrs.  Berger's  motherly 
heart.  Her  own  heart  was  filled  with  love  and  joy  in  re- 
ceiving, meanwhile,  a  new  gift  from  God.  Bom  on  the  7th 
of  July,  this  little  one  was  her  fifth  son,  and  called  forth  all 
the  pent-up  love  of  his  parents'  hearts. 

"  How  graciously  the  Lord  has  dealt  with  me  and  mine," 
Mr.  Taylor  wrote  home  to  Bamsley.  "  How  tenderly  did  He 
bring  my  loved  one  through  the  hour  of  trial,  and  give  us  our 
last-born,  our  Noel.  How  I  thanked  Him  as  I  stroked  the  soft, 
silky  hair,  and  nestled  the  httle  one  in  my  bosom  I  And  how 
she  loved  him,  when  with  a  father's  joy  and  pride  I  brought  him 
to  her  for  her  first  kiss,  and  together  we  gave  him  to  the  Lord." 

But  an  attack  of  cholera  had  greatly  prostrated  the 
mother,  and  lack  of  natural  nourishment  told  upon  the 
child.  When  a  Chinese  nurse  could  be  found,  it  was  too 
late  to  save  the  httle  hfe,  and  after  one  brief  week  on  earth 
he  went  back  to  the  Home  above,  in  which  his  mother  was 
so  soon  to  join  him. 

"  Though  excessively  prostrate  in  body,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote 
in  the  same  letter,  "  the  deep  peace  of  soul,  the  realisation  of 
the  Lord's  own  presence,  and  the  joy  in  His  holy  will  with  which 
she  was  filled,  and  in  which  I  was  permitted  to  share,  I  can  find 
no  words  to  describe." 

She  chose  herself  the  hymns  to  be  sung  at  the  little  grave, 
one  of  which,  "  O  holy  Saviour,  Friend  unseen,"  seemed 
specially  to  dwell  in  her  mind. 

Though  faith  and  hope  are  often  tried. 
We  ask  not,  need  not,  aught  beside  ; 
So  safe,  so  cahn,  so  satisfied. 

The  souls  that  cling  to  Thee. 

They  fear  not  Satan  nor  the  grave. 
They  know  Thee  near,  and  strong  to  save  ? 
Nor  fear  to  cross  e'en  Jordan's  wave. 
While  still  they  cHng  to  Thee. 


196         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Weak  as  she  was,  it  had  not  yet  occurred  to  them  that 

for  her  too  the  end  was  near.  The  deep  mutual  love  that 
bound  their  hearts  in  one  seemed  to  preclude  the  thought  of 
separation.  And  she  was  only  thirty- three.  There  was  no 
pain  up  to  the  very  last,  though  she  was  weary,  very  weary. 
A  letter  from  Mrs.  Berger  had  been  received  two  days 
previously,  telling  of  the  safe  arrival  at  Saint  Hill  of  Miss 
Blatchley  and  the  children.  Every  detail  of  the  welcome 
and  arrangements  for  their  well-being  filled  her  heart  with 
joy.  She  knew  not  how  to  be  thankful  enough,  and  seemed 
to  have  no  desire  or  thought  but  just  to  praise  the  Lord  for 
His  goodness.  Many  and  many  a  time  had  Mrs.  Berger 's 
letters  reached  their  destination  at  the  needed  moment ; 
many  and  many  a  time  had  her  loving  heart  anticipated  the 
circumstances  in  which  they  would  be  received,  but  never 
more  so  than  with  this  letter. 

"  And  now  farewell,  precious  Friend,"  she  wrote.  *'  The 
Lord  throw  around  you  His  everlasting  arms.'* 

It  was  in  those  arms  she  was  resting. 

At  daybreak  on  Saturday  the  23rd  of  July,  she  was 
sleeping  quietly,  and  Mr.  Taylor  left  her  a  few  moments  to 
prepare  some  food.  While  he  was  doing  so  she  awoke,  and 
serious  symptoms  called  him  to  her  side. 

"  By  this  time  it  was  dawn,"  he  wrote,  "  and  the  sunlight 
revealed  what  the  candle  had  hidden — the  deathlike  hue  of  her 
countenance.  Even  my  love  could  no  longer  deny,  not  her 
danger,  but  that  she  was  actually  dying.  As  soon  as  I  was 
sufficiently  composed,  I  said  : 

"  '  My  darling,  do  you  know  that  you  are  d5dng  ?  ' 
"  '  Dying  I  '  she  replied.     '  Do  you  think  so  ?     What  makes 
you  think  so  ?  ' 

"  I  said,  '  I  can  see  it,  darling.  Your  strength  is  giving 
way.' 

"  '  Can  it  be  so  ?     I  feel  no  pain,  only  weariness.' 

"  '  Yes,  you  are  going  Home.     You  will  soon  be  with  Jesus.' 

"  My  precious  wife  thought  of  my  being  left  alone  at  a  time 

of  so  much  trial,  with  no  companion  Hke  herself,  with  whom 

1  had  been  wont  to  bring  every  diJSiculty  to  the  Throne  of  Grace. 

"  '  I  am  so  sorry,'  she  said,  and  paused  as  if  half  correcting 

herself  for  the  feehng. 


JESUS  DOES  SATISFY  197 

"  *  You  are  not  sorry  to  go  to  be  with  Jesus  ?  * 
"  Never  shall  I  forget  the  look  with  which  she  answered, 
*  Oh,  no  !  It  is  not  that.  You  know,  darUng,  that  for  ten  years 
past  there  has  not  been  a  cloud  between  me  and  my  Saviour.  I 
cannot  be  sorry  to  go  to  Him  ;  but  it  does  grieve  me  to  leave 
you  alone  at  such  a  time.  Yet  ...  He  will  be  with  you  and 
meet  all  your  need.'  " 


But  little  was  said  after  that.  A  few  loving  messages  to 
those  at  home,  a  few  last  words  about  the  children,  and  she 
seemed  to  fall  asleep  or  drift  into  unconsciousness  of  earthly 
things.  The  summer  sun  rose  higher  and  higher  over  the 
city,  the  hills,  and  the  river.  The  busy  hum  of  life  came  up 
around  them  from  many  a  court  and  street.  But  within 
one  Chinese  dwelling,  in  an  upper  room  from  which  the  blue 
of  God's  own  heaven  could  be  seen,  there  was  the  hush  of  a 
wonderful  peace. 

**  I  never  witnessed  such  a  scene,"  wrote  Mrs.  Duncan,  a 
few  days  later.  "  As  dear  Mrs.  Taylor  was  breathing  her  last, 
Mr.  Taylor  knelt  down — his  heart  so  fuU— and  committed  her 
to  the  Lord  ;  thanking  Him  for  having  given  her,  and  for  the 
twelve  and  a  half  years  of  happiness  they  had  had  together ; 
thanking  Him,  too,  for  taking  her  to  His  own  blessed  presence, 
and  solemnly  dedicating  himself  anew  to  His  service." 

It  was  just  after  9  a.m.  when  the  quiet  breathing  ceased, 
and  they  knew  she  was  "  with  Christ,  which  is  far  better." 


CHAPTER  XIV 

SHALL  NEVER  THIRST 

1870-1871.    Aet.  38-39. 

**  My  thirsty  days  are  all  past,"  Hudson  Taylor  had  felt  and 
said  and  written  that  very  summer,  rejoicing  as  never 
before  in  the  Saviour's  promise,  "  He  that  cometh  to  Me 
shall  never  hunger  ;  and  he  that  beUeveth  on  Me  shall  never 
thirst."  Would  it  prove  true  now — now  that  the  joy  of 
life  on  its  human  side  was  gone,  and  there  was  nothing  left 
but  aching  loneliness  and  silence  ?  Would  it  prove  true  now 
— when,  under  the  pressure  of  continued  difficulty  on  every 
hand,  health  began  to  give  way,  and,  sleepless  at  night,  he 
found  himself  scarcely  able  to  face  the  suffering  not  to  speak 
of  the  labours  of  each  new  day  ?  If  ever  the  reality  of  the 
power  of  Christ  to  meet  the  heart's  deepest  need  was  put  to 
the  test  of  experience  it  was  in  this  life,  swept  clean  of  all 
that  had  been  its  earthly  comfort — wife,  children,  home, 
health  to  a  large  extent — and  left  amid  the  responsibilities 
of  such  a  Mission  and  such  a  crisis,  far  away  in  China. 

Hastening  to  his  side  with  stricken  hearts,  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Judd,  who  had  been  at  the  coast  for  her  convalescence, 
found  the  baby  they  had  left  in  Mrs.  Taylor's  care  so  well 
and  bonnie  that  his  mother  hardly  knew  him,  but  the  one 
who  had  nursed  him  back  to  health  laid  with  her  own  little 
one  beneath  the  sod. 

"  I  need  not  tell  you  how  we  loved  her,"  Mr.  Judd  wrote 
to  friends  at  home.  "  Our  hearts  are  full  to  overflowing,  but 
we  feel  unable  to  speak  to  dear  Mr.  Taylor  about  her.  He  is 
evidently  so  happy  in  the  Lord  Jesus  that  he  needs  no  words 

198 


SHALL  NEVER  THIRST  199 

of  ours.  God  is  at  this  time  his  refuge  and  strength,  and  for 
some  months  past  has  been  teaching  him  more  and  more  of  His 
own  fulness,  thus  preparing  him  for  the  stroke." 

A  few  days  only  before  his  great  bereavement,  when 
there  was  no  thought  of  immediate  danger,  Mr.  Taylor  had 
written  to  his  mother  at  home  (July  11)  : 

I  find  increasing  comfort  in  the  thought  that  all  things  are 
really  in  our  Father's  hand  and  under  His  govemance.  He  can- 
not but  do  what  is  best. 

God  nothing  does  nor  suffers  to  be  done. 
But  we  would  do  the  same,  could  we  but  see 
Through  all  the  events  of  things  as  well  as  He, 

And  now,  on  August  4,  he  continued  : 

I  have  just  been  reading  over  my  last  letter  to  you,  and  my 
views  are  not  changed,  though  chastened  and  deepened.  From 
my  inmost  soul  I  dehght  in  the  knowledge  that  God  does  or 
deUberately  permits  all  things,  and  causes  all  things  to  work 
together  for  good  to  those  who  love  Him. 

He  and  He  only  knew  what  my  dear  wife  was  to  me.  He 
knew  how  the  light  of  my  eyes  and  the  joy  of  my  heart  were  in 
her.  On  the  last  day  of  her  Hfe  (we  had  no  idea  that  it  would 
prove  the  last)  our  hearts  were  mutually  dehghted  by  the  never- 
old  story  of  each  other's  love,  as  they  were  every  day,  nearly ; 
and  almost  her  last  act  was,  with  one  arm  round  my  neck,  to 
place  her  hand  upon  my  head,  and,  as  I  beheve,  for  her  lips  had 
lost  their  cunning,  to  implore  a  blessing  on  me.  But  He  saw 
that  it  was  good  to  take  her ;  good  indeed  for  her,  and  in  His 
love  He  took  her  painlessly ;  and  not  less  good  for  me  who  must 
henceforth  toil  and  suffer  alone — yet  not  alone,  for  God  is  nearer 
to  me  than  ever.  And  now  I  have  to  tell  Him  all  my  sorrows 
and  difficulties,  as  I  used  to  tell  dear  Maria ;  and  as  she  cannot 
join  me  in  intercession,  to  rest  in  the  knowledge  of  Jesus'  inter- 
cession ;  to  walk  a  Httle  less  by  feeUng,  a  Uttle  less  by  sight,  a 
httle  more  by  faith. 

To  Mr.  Berger  he  had  written  some  days  previously  : 

And  now,  dear  brother,  what  shall  I  say  of  the  Lord's  deahngs 
with  me  and  mine  ?  I  know  not  !  My  heart  is  overwhehned 
with  gratitude  and  praise.  My  eyes  flow  with  tears  of  mingled 
joy  and  sorrow.  When  I  think  of  my  loss,  my  heart — nigh  to 
breaking — rises  in  thankfulness  to  Him  Who  has  spared  her 
such  sorrow  and  made  her  so  unspeakably  happy.     My  tears 


200         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

are  more  tears  of  joy  than  of  grief.  But  most  of  all  I  joy  in 
God  through  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ — in  His  works,  His  ways, 
His  providence,  in  Himself.  He  is  giving  me  to  prove  (to  know 
by  trial)  "  What  is  that  good  and  acceptable  and  perfect  will 
of  God."  I  do  rejoice  in  that  will.  It  is  acceptable  to  me  ;  it 
is  perfect ;  it  is  love  in  action.  And  soon,  in  that  same  sweet 
will,  we  shall  be  reunited  to  part  no  more.  "  Father,  I  will 
that  they  also  whom  Thou  hast  given  me  be  with  me  where  I  am." 

It  was  only  to  be  expected  that  as  the  days  wore  on  there 
should  be  some  measure  of  reaction,  specially  when  illness 
came  and  long  wakeful  nights. 

"  How  lonesome,"  he  recalled,  "  were  the  weary  hours  when 
confined  to  my  room.  How  I  missed  my  dear  wife  and  the 
little  pattering  footsteps  of  the  children  far  away  in  England  I 
Then  it  was  I  understood  why  the  Lord  had  made  that  passage 
so  real  to  me,  '  Whosoever  drinketh  of  the  water  that  I  shaU 
give  him  shall  never  thirst.*  Twenty  times'^  day,  perhaps,  as 
I  felt  the  heart-thirst  coming  back,  I  cried  to  Him  : 

"  '  Lord,  you  promised  !  You  promised  me  that  I  should 
never  thirst.' 

"  And  whether  I  called  by  day  or  night,  how  quickly  He 
always  came  and  satisfied  my  sorrowing  heart  !  So  much  so 
that  X  often  wondered  whether  it  were  possible  that  my  loved 
one  who  had  been  taken  could  be  enjo5dng  more  of  His  presence 
than  I  was  in  my  lonely  chamber.^  He  had  literally  fulfilled 
the  prayer : 

1         Lord  Jesus,  make  Thyself  to  me 
\  A  living,  bright  Reality  ; 

More  present  to  faith's  vision  keen 
Than  any  outward  object  seen  ; 
More  dear,  more  intimately  nigh. 
Than  e'en  the  sweetest  earthly  tie." 

What  more  can  be  added  to  experiences  so  sacred  ? 
Were  it  not  that  the  correspondence  of  the  period  is  too 
precious  to  be  passed  over,  one  would  hesitate  to  dwell  upon 
the  intimacies  of  this  stricken  soul  with  its  God.  But  letters 
remain  that  have  a  message,  surely,  for  such  days  as  ours. 
Let  them  tell  their  own  story. 

1  "  To  know,"  he  added  in  connection  with  the  promise  above  quoted 
(John  iv.  14),  "  that  '  shall  '  means  shall,  that  '  never  '  means  never,  and 
that  '  thirst  '  means  any  unsatisfied  need  may  be  one  of  the  greatest  revela- 
tions God  ever  made  to  our  souls," 


SHALL  NEVER  THIRST  201 

To  Mr.  Berger,  August  14  : 

It  is  Sunday  evening.  I  am  writing  from  Mr.  White's  bunga- 
low. The  cool  air,  the  meUow,  autumnal  beauty  of  the  scene, 
the  magnificent  Yangtze — with  Silver  Island,  beautifully  wooded, 
reposing,  as  it  were,  on  its  bosom — combine  to  make  one  feel  as 
if  it  were  a  vision  of  dreamland  rather  than  actual  reahty.  And 
my  feehngs  accord.  But  a  few  months  ago  my  home  was  full, 
now  so  silent  and  lonely — Samuel,  Noel,  my  precious  wife,  with 
Jesus  ;  the  elder  children  far,  far  away,  and  even  little  T'ien-pao 
in  Yang-chow.  Often,  of  late  years,  has  duty  called  me  from 
my  loved  ones,  but  I  have  returned,  and  so  warm  has  been  the 
welcome  !  Now  I  am  alone.  Can  it  be  that  there  is  no  return 
from  this  journey,  no  home-gathering  to  look  forward  to  !  Is 
it  real,  and  not  a  sorrowful  dream,  that  those  dearest  to  me  he 
beneath  the  cold  sod  ?  Ah,  it  is  indeed  true  !  But  not  more 
so,  than  that  there  is  a  home-coming  awaiting  me  which  no 
parting  shall  break  into,  no  tears  mar.  .  .  .  Love  gave  the  blow 
that  for  a  Httle  while  makes  the  desert  more  dreary,  but  heaven 
more  home-hke.  "I  go  to  prepare  a  place  for  you  "  :  and  is 
not  our  part  of  the  preparation  the  peopHng  it  with  those  we 
love  ? 

And  the  same  loving  Hand  that  makes  heaven  more  home- 
hke  is  the  while  loosening  the  ties  that  bind  us  to  this  world, 
thus  helping  our  earth-cleaving  spirits  to  sit  looser,  awaiting 
our  own  summons,  whether  personally  to  be  "  present  with  the 
Lord,"  or  at  "  the  glorious  appearing  of  our  great  God  and 
Saviour."  "  Even  so,  come.  Lord  Jesus,"  come  quickly  !  But 
if  He  tarry — if  for  the  rescue,  the  salvation  of  some  still  scattered 
upon  the  mountains  He  can  wait  the  full  joy  of  having  all  His 
loved  ones  gathered  to  Himself — surely  we,  too,  should  be 
content,  nay,  thankful,  a  Httle  longer  to  bear  the  cross  and  unfurl 
the  banner  of  salvation.  Poor  China,  how  great  her  need  1  Let 
us  seek  to  occupy  a  Httle  longer. 

I  have  been  very  iU  since  I  last  wrote  to  you,  through  a 
severe  attack  of  dysentery.  My  strength  does  not  return  rapidly. 
I  feel  Hke  a  Httle  child.  .  .  .  But  with  the  weakness  of  a  child 
I  have  the  rest  of  a  child.  I  know  my  Father  reigns  :  this  meets 
all  questions  of  every  kind.  I  have  heard  to-day  that  war  has 
broken  out  in  Europe,  between  France  and  Prussia ;  that  it  is 
rumoured  that  England  joins  the  former  and  Russia  the  latter. 
If  so  fearful  doings  may  be  expected  ;  but,  "  the  Lord  reigneth." 

To  Miss  Blatchley,  in  July  and  August  : 

Nearly  three  weeks  have  passed  since  my  last  letter  to  you  : 
a  little  Hfetime  it  has  been.  ...  I  cannot  describe  to  you  my 


202         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

feelings  ;  I  do  not  understand  them  myself.  I  feel  like  a  person 
stunned  with  a  blow,  or  recovering  from  a  faint,  and  as  yet  but 
partially  conscious.  But  I  would  not  have  it  otherwise,  no, 
not  a  hair's  breadth,  for  the  world.  My  Father  has  ordered  it 
so — therefore  I  know  it  is,  it  must  be  best,  and  I  thank  Him  for 
so  ordering  it.  I  feel  utterly  "crushed,  and  yet  "  strong  in  the 
Lord  and  in  the  power  of  His  might.'*  Oft-times  my  heart  is 
nigh  to  breaking  .  .  .  but  withal,  I  had  ahnost  said,  I  never 
knew  what  peace  and  happiness  were  before — so  much  have  I 
enjoyed  in  the  very  sorrow.  .  .  . 

I  think  I  sent  you  a  few  weeks  ago  a  copy  of  some  notes  on 
John  vii.  37  :  precious  thoughts  they  have  been  to  me,  and 
needed  and  true.  I  now  see  more  and  deeper  meaning  in  them 
than  then.  And  this  I  know  :  only  a  thirsty  man  knows  the 
value  of  water,  and  only  a  thirsty  soul  the  value  of  the  Living 
Water. 

I  could  not  have  believed  it  possible  that  He  could  so  have 
helped  and  comforted  my  poor  heart. 

Thursday,  Friday,  and  Saturday  were  all  spent  in  bed,  and 
part  of  yesterday — ague  and  affection  of  the  Uver  this  time. 
It  throws  me  back  very  much,  but  the  Lord's  will  be  done. 
Yesterday  ...  in  the  cold  stage  of  the  ague,  I  was  shaking 
until  the  bed  shook  under  me  ;  but  I  enjoyed  such  a  vivid 
reahsation  that  I  was  altogether  the  Lord's,  purchased  not  with 
silver  and  gold — that  I  had  not  a  particle  of  property,  so  to  speak, 
in  myself — that  it  filled  my  heart  to  overflowing.  I  felt,  if  He 
wanted  me  to  shake,  I  could  shake  for  Him  ;  if  to  burn  with 
fever,  I  could  welcome  it  for  His  sake. 

Come  joy  or  come  sorrow,  whatever  befall. 

His  presence  and  love  {more  than)  make  up  for  it  all. 

By  the  end  of  the  month  (August)  the  youngest  of  Mr. 
Taylor's  children,  the  motherless  baby  alone  left  to  him  of 
his  family,  was  hanging  between  Kfe  and  death.  As  the 
only  hope  of  saving  him,  his  father  took  liim  with  Mrs. 
Duncan's  kind  help  to  Ningpo  and  the  island  of  Pu-du.  A 
fortnight  spent  there,  however,  proved  an  anxious  time, 
and  to  his  parents  in  Barnsley  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  (September 

25): 

T'ien-pao  has  not  improved  so  much  as  I  had  hoped.  May 
the  Lord  help  me  to  be  patient  and  trustful.  Long-continued 
anxiety  and  weariness  from  want  of  rest,  sorrow  from  repeated 
bereavements  and  trouble  in  the  work,  from  the  state  of  China 


SHALL  NEVER  THIRST  203 

and  the  timidity  of  the  workers,  and  other  trials  from  without 
and  within  do  make  one  feel  the  need  of  a  strong  arm  to  lean  upon 
— aye,  and  a  tender  one  too.  And  here,  thank  God,  our  great 
need  is  just  met,  "  As  one  whom  his  mother  comforteth,"  so 
He  comforts  us.  Strengthened  by  His  power,  though  troubled 
on  every  side,  we  are  not  forsaken,  nor  left  to  doubt  either  the 
wisdom  or  love  of  Him  Who  is  at  the  helm. 

There  was  much  sickness  in  the  Mission  at  this  time. 
Mr.  Meadows  lay  ill  at  Kiu-kiang,  too  far  away  for  Mr. 
Taylor  to  reach  him,  and  the  Crombies  near  at  hand  were 
so  seriously  run  down  that  arrangements  had  to  be  made 
for  their  leaving  at  once  for  England.  While  seeing  them 
off  at  Shanghai,  it  became  evident  that  Mrs.  Crombie  could 
not  with  safety  be  left.  There  was  no  doctor  on  board,  and 
the  Captain  offered  Mr.  Taylor  a  free  passage  to  Hongkong, 
in  the  hope  that  by  the  time  they  reached  there  she  might 
be  out  of  danger.  He  had  no  choice  but  to  go,  for  the 
patient  was  in  too  serious  a  condition  to  be  removed  from  the 
ship.  The  result  was  that  all  the  month  of  October  was 
taken  up  with  the  double  journey.  To  set  out  at  a  moment's 
notice,  leaving  his  sick  child  in  the  care  of  friends  at  Ningpo, 
was  far  from  easy  ;  but  it  proved  the  means  of  saving  Mrs. 
Crombie's  Hfe,  and  gave  Mr.  Taylor  the  change  and  com- 
parative rest  he  sorely  needed.  It  afforded  an  opportunity, 
too,  of  sending  home  gifts  to  his  children — the  little  daughter 
of  three  years  old  and  the  boys  of  eight  and  nine,  who  were 
constantly  on  his  heart. 

"  You  do  not  know  how  often  Papa  thinks  of  his  darlings," 
he  wrote  from  Hongkong  (Oct.  16),  "  and  how  often  he  looks  at 
your  photographs,  till  the  tears  fill  his  eyes.  Sometimes  he 
almost  fears  lest  he  should  feel  discontented  when  he  thinks 
how  far  away  you  are  from  him  :  but,  then,  dear  Jesus,  Who 
never  lea,ves  him,  says  :  '  Don't  be  afraid.  I  will  keep  your 
heart  satisfied.  You  know  it  was  your  Father  in  heaven  who 
took  them  to  England,  and  v/ho  took  Mamma  to  her  Httle  Noel, 
Samuel,  and  Gracie  in  the  Better  Land.'  Then  I  thank  Him, 
and  feel  so  glad  that  Jesus  will  Hve  in  my  heart  and  keep  it 
right  for  me. 

"  I  wish  you,  my  precious  children,  knew  what  it  was  to  give 
your  hearts  to  Jesus  to  keep  every  day.  I  used  to  try  to  keep 
my  own  heart  right,  but  it  would  be  always  going  wrong ;   and 


204         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

so  at  last  I  had  to  give  up  trying  myself,  and  accept  Jesus'  offer 
to  keep  it  for  me.  Don't  you  think  that  is  the  best  way  ?  Perhaps 
sometimes  you  think  :  '  I  will  try  not  to  be  selfish,  or  unkind, 
or  disobedient.' 

"  And  yet,  though  you  really  try,  you  do  not  always  succeed. 
But  Jesus  says, '  You  should  trust  that  to  Me.  I  would  keep  that 
little  heart,  if  you  could  trust  Me  with  it.'     And  He  would  too. 

"  Once  I  used  to  try  to  think  very  much  and  very  often 
about  Jesus,  but  I  often  forgot  Him  :  now  I  trust  Jesus  to  keep  my 
heart  remembering  Him,  and  He  does  so.  This  is  the  best  way. 
Ask  dear  Miss  Blatchley  to  tell  you  more  about  this  way,  and  pray 
God  to  make  it  plain  to  you,  and  to  help  you  so  to  tmst  Jesus." 

To  Miss  Blatchley  he  wrote  regularly,  showing  how  fully 
he  realised  the  responsibility  of  her  charge  and  the  import- 
ance of  disciphne  in  dealing  with  the  children.  Yet  his 
heart  craved  tenderness  for  them  too,  and  keenly  felt  their 
share  in  his  great  loss. 

"  You  will  love  them  all  the  more,"  he  had  written  in  August, 
"  now  that  they  can  never  again  know  a  mother's  care.  God 
^^1  help  you  to  bear  with  them,  and  to  try  to  correct  them  by 
lovingly  pointing  out  the  right  way  rather  than  by  too  frequent 
reproof — '  Don't  do  this  or  that.'  This  I  feel  is  where  I  most 
failed  with  them  ;  and  now,  there  is  only  you  to  make  up  for 
my  deficiencies." 

And  in  a  later  letter : 

Do  try  to  keep  their  confidence  and  love.  Do  try  so  to  sjmi- 
pathise  that  they  may  learn  to  bring  their  troubles  to  you,  assured 
of  your  willing  ear  and  help  ;  so  that  they  may  tell  you  their 
faults  and  even  their  sins.  If  you  can,  by  God's  help,  get  this,  the 
boys  are  safe  from  many  a  snare  they  might  otherwise  be  led  into. 

To  keep  their  confidence  and  love  himself,  even  at  so 
great  a  distance,  he  toiled  many  an  hour  long  after  body  and 
mind  craved  rest.  Returning  to  Shanghai,  for  example, 
amid  other  letters  penned  in  his  comfortless  third-class 
quarters  were  the  following  : 

My  darling  Treasures — It  is  not  very  long  since  my  last 
letter,  but  I  want  to  write  again.  I  wonder  if  you  will  try  to 
write  me  a  httle  answer  ?  .  .  .  I  have  been  thinking  to-night — 
if  Jesus  makes  me  so  happy  by  always  keeping  near  me,  and 
talking  to  me  every  minute  or  two  though  I  cannot  see  Him, 


SHALL  NEVER  THIRST  205 

how  happy  darUng  Mamma  must  be  I  I  am  so  glad  for  her  to 
be  with  Him  ...  I  shall  be  so  glad  to  go  to  her  when  Jesus 
thinks  it  best.  But  I  hope  He  will  help  me  to  be  equally  willing 
to  live  with  Him  here,  so  long  as  He  has  any  work  for  me  to  do 
for  Him  and  for  poor  China. 

Now,  my  darling  children,  I  want  you  to  love  Jesus  very 
much,  and  to  know  that  He  really  does  love  you  very  much. 
Don't  you  think  your  far-off,  dear  Papa  would  be  very  pleased 
to  see  you  and  talk  to  you,  and  to  take  you  on  his  knee  and 
kiss  you  ?  You  know  he  would  !  Well,  Jesus  will  always  be 
far  more  pleased  when  you  think  of  Him  with  loving  thoughts, 
and  speak  to  Him  with  loving  words.  Don't  think  of  Him  as 
some  dreadful  Being.  Think  of  Him  as  very  good  and  very  great, 
able  to  do  everything,  but  as  very  gentle  and  very  kind.  When 
you  wake,  say  to  Him,  either  aloud  or  in  your  hearts  : 

"  Good  morning,  dear  Jesus.  I  am  so  glad  you  have  been 
by  me  all  night,  and  have  taken  care  of  me.  Teach  me  how 
much  you  love  me.  Take  care  of  my  heart :  make  it  think 
good  thoughts.  Take  care  of  my  Hps  :  only  let  them  speak 
kind,  good  words.  Help  me  always  to  know  what  is  right  and 
to  do  it." 

He  Hkes  us  to  talk  to  Him.  When  I  am  walking  alone,  I 
often  talk  aloud  to  Him.  At  other  times  I  talk  to  Him  in  my 
heart.  Do  not  forget,  my  darhng  children,  that  He  is  always 
with  you.  Awake  or  asleep,  at  home  or  elsewhere.  He  is  really 
with  you  though  you  cannot  see  Him.  So  I  hope  you  will  try 
not  to  grieve  so  constant  and  kind  a  Friend. 

And  to  Miss  Blatchley  : 

I  have  written  again  to  the  dear  children.  I  do  long  for  them 
to  learn  early,  and,  once  for  all,  the  precious  truths  which  have 
come  so  late  to  me  concerning  oneness  with  and  the  indwelling 
of  Christ.  These  do  not  seem  to  me  more  difficult  of  apprehen- 
sion than  the  truths  about  redemption.  Both  need  the  teaching 
of  the  Spirit,  nothing  more.  May  God  help  you  to  live  Christ 
before  these  little  ones,  and  to  minister  Him  to  them.  How 
wonderfully  He  has  led  and  taught  us,  has  He  not  ?  How  little 
I  beheved  the  rest  and  peace  I  now  enjoy  possible  down  here. 
It  is  heaven  begun  below,  is  it  not  ?  May  w^e  ever  enjoy  it ! 
Compared  with  this  union  with  Christ,  heaven  or  earth  are  un- 
important accidents.  .  .  . 

Try  to  explain  these  most  sweet  and  practical  yet  simple 
truths  to  the  children,  and  to  draw  out  their  desire  for  these 
things.  ..."  Out  of  the  mouths  of  babes  and  sucklings  Thou 
hast  perfected  praise."     In   all  your  intercourse  with  friends 


2o6         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

of  the  Mission,  seek  to  deepen  their  reahsation  of  the  value  of 
Christ,  and  of  our  union  with  Him.  Should  you  succeed  in 
interesting  them  in  China  or  in  the  Mission,  your  efforts  may 
end  there  ;  but  if  you  minister  blessing  to  their  souls,  they  will 
the  better  enter  into  Christ's  command  and  purposes  toward 
China,  and  will  be  more  hkely  to  become  helpers  in  prayer, 
and  not  less  so  pecuniarily.  After  all,  what  we  want  is  not 
money  but  power.  .  .  .  Doubtless  it  is  in  answer  to  many 
prayers  that  my  own  soul  has  been  so  sustained  under  sore  trial. 
Seek  prayer  for  us,  and  we  shall  have  all  things  :  let  it  be  lacking, 
and  our  very  blessings  may  become  a  snare. 

"  Oh  !  it  is  joy  to  feel  Jesus  hving  in  you,"  he  wrote  on  the 
same  journey  to  his  sister,  Mrs.  Walker  ;  "to  find  your  heart 
all  taken  up  by  Him  ;  to  be  reminded  of  His  love  by  His  seeking 
communion  with  you  at  all  times,  not  by  your  painful  attempts 
to  abide  in  Him.  He  is  our  hfe,  our  strength,  our  salvation  ; 
He  is  our  wisdom  and  righteousness,  our  sanctification  and 
redemption  ;  He  is  our  power  for  service  and  fruit-bearing,  and 
His  bosom  is  our  resting-place  now  and  for  ever." 

To  Mr.  Berger  he  wrote  on  October  13  : 

Ah  !  my  dear  brother,  what  a  wonderful  expression  is  that, 
"  In  Christ  Jesus."  And  what  a  wonderful  fact  is  our  being  in 
Christ  Jesus  and  He  in  us.  Day  by  day  I  am  learning  a  httle 
and  a  Httle  more  of  it,  and  it  is  so  sweet,  so  practical,  so  simple, 
so  all-sufhcient  1  And  yet  no  truth  makes  one  feel  so  utterly 
childhke.  It  is  Hke  playing  in  the  shallows  of  a  boundless 
ocean.  .  .  .  Oh,  the  unsearchable  riches  of  His  fulness  !  and 
all  is  ours — for  He  is  ours  and  we  are  His. 

Hastening  to  Ningpo  on  his  return,  in  the  hope  of  being 
able  to  take  his  youngest  child  with  him  to  Chin-kiang,  he 
found  him  desperately  ill  with  croup,  and  scarcely  expected 
to  live.  This  was  a  sore  trial.  But  Mission  affairs  were 
urgent,  after  an  absence  of  a  month  or  more,  and  as  soon  as 
there  was  decided  improvement,  leaving  him  in  the  care  of 
Dr.  Parker,  Mr.  Taylor  pressed  on  to  Hang-chow  and  the 
neighbouring  stations.  Long  were  those  visits  remembered 
with  gratitude  to  God. 

'*  He  came  to  us  full  of  the  Spirit,"  wrote  Mr.  Cordon  of 
Soo-chow,  "  and,  though  he  has  lately  experienced  such  deep 
sorrow,  spoke  only  of  the  wisdom  and  goodness  of  the  Lord." 


SHALL  NEVER  THIRST  207 

Both  there  and  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Stevenson  at  Shao- 
hing  he  had  much  spiritual  fellowship,  rejoicing  especially 
in  the  progress  of  the  work  at  the  latter  station. 

At  Hang-chow  also  there  was  much  to  encourage.  The 
church  was  prospering  under  the  faithful  ministry  of  Pastor 
Wang,  and  seven  evangelists  were  at  work  in  the  surroimd- 
ing  districts.  Detained  there  by  medical  duty,  it  was  a 
refreshment  to  Mr.  Taylor  to  see  something  of  old  friends, 
including  ]\Ir.  and  Mrs.  McCarthy  and  Miss  Faulding,  who 
had  been  almost  a  member  of  his  own  family  from  the  time 
of  their  sailing  for  China.  Four  years  of  steady  w^ork  in 
Hang-chow  had  developed  in  her  rare  sweetness  of  character 
and  depth  of  spiritual  experience.  Though  still  only  twenty- 
seven,  she  was  a  most  efficient  missionary,  a  force  for  good 
and  for  God  widely  felt  in  that  heathen  city.  Her  schools, 
for  wliich,  in  faith,  she  had  assumed  entire  financial  responsi- 
bihty,  were  prospering  both  as  regards  numbers  and  results. 
Several  of  the  boys  had  committed  to  memory  the  entire 
New  Testament,  with  the  exception  of  two  Gospels,  and  not 
a  few  had  become  earnest  Christians  and  gave  promise  of 
future  usefulness.^ 

And  there  it  was  home  letters  found  him — the  first  from 
England  after  tidings  of  Mr.  Taylor's  sorrow  had  been 
received.  Nothing  could  exceed  the  tenderness  of  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Berger's  sympathy,  or  their  sense  of  the  loss  the  Mission 
had  sustained. 

"  The  contents  of  your  letter  dated  Chin-kiang,  July  30," 
wrote  Mr.  Berger,  "  have  so  stunned  us  that  I  feel  even  now, 
after  two  or  three  days'  knowledge  of  the  facts,  quite  unfit  for 
writing,  especially  to  yourself  ;  still,  you  so  well  understand 
this  feeling  that  I  need  not  hesitate. 

"  Oh  !  that  I  could  transport  myself  and  my  dear  wife  to 
your  side,  to  share  in  close  fellowship  your  deep  sorrow.  For, 
however  much  you  may  be  able  to  realise  that  the  Lord  has 
done  it,  and  even  to  acquiesce  in  His  will,  the  grief  inseparable 
from  the  loss  of  one  so  deeply  and  deservedly  loved  must  be 
most  poignant,  and  probably  your  later  feehngs  of  desolation 

1  One  of  these  married,  a  few  years  later,  the  daughter  of  Wang  Lae- 
djiin,  becoming  his  co-pastor  in  Hang-chow,  and  is  still  (1918)  in  charge 
of  the  Sin-kai-long  Church. 


2o8         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

will  be  keener  than  those  that  immediately  followed  your  bereave- 
ment. 

"  The  blank  would  be  too  painful,  but  for  the  loving  fellow- 
ship of  Jesus  :  but  it  is  just  here  one  finds  the  glimmer  of  Ught 
and  hope  rising  in  the  mind.  He  wiU  not,  cannot  fail  to  pour 
in  oil  and  wine  to  the  wounded  heart.  '  In  aU  our  afflictions 
He  was  afflicted  '  ;  and  if  we  were  reconciled  by  His  death, 
when  enemies,  how  much  more  shall  we  be  saved,  cared  for 
and  ministered  to  as  His  own,  seeing  '  He  ever  hveth.' 

"  Jehovah  wounds  and  He  heals.  He  even  kills  and  makes 
aHve  ;  and  may  we  not  say  advisedly.  He  afflicts  for  our  profit. 
Out  of  this,  the  deepest  sorrow  and  trial  you  have  ever  been 
called  to  pass  through,  shall  surely  flow  some  inconceivable 
blessing.  It  may  unfold  slowly,  hke  the  bud ;  but  our  Father 
never  takes  away  to  leave  us  poor." 

While  still  in  Hang-chow — home  of  so  many  memories- 
Mr.  Taylor  repHed  to  these  beloved  friends,  seeking  to 
reassure  them  with  regard  to  his  experiences.  To  Mr. 
Berger,  November  i8  : 

Many,  many  thanks  for  your  loving  sympathy  in  my  bereave- 
ment—I cannot  properly  say  loss.  I  feel  it  an  inexpressible  gain. 
She  is  not  lost.  She  does  not  love  me  less  now,  nor  do  I  love 
her  less,  or  less  rejoice  in  her.  And  I  do  from  day  to  day  and 
every  day  so  dehght  in  the  love  of  Jesus,  satisfy  my  thirsty 
heart  when  most  desolate  from  His  fulness,  feed  and  rest  in  green 
pastures  in  the  recognition  that  His  wiU  has  been  done  and  is 
being  done,  as  no  words  can  express.  He  only  knows  what  her 
absence  is  to  me.  Twelve  years  and  a  half  of  such  unbroken 
spiritual  fellowship,  united  labour,  mutual  satisfaction  and  love, 
fall  to  the  lot  of  very  few.  .  .  .  But  were  the  blank  less,  I  should 
know  less  of  His  power  and  sustaining  love. 

And  to  Mrs.  Berger  the  same  day  : 

No  language  can  express  v>^hat  He  has  been  and  is  to  me. 
Never  does  He  leave  me  ;  constantly  does  He  cheer  me  with  His 
love.  He  who  once  wept  at  the  grave  of  Lazarus  often  now 
weeps  in  and  with  me.  He  who  once  on  earth  rejoiced  in  spirit 
and  said,  "  Even  so.  Father,  for  so  it  seemed  good  in  Thy  sight," 
daily,  hourly,  rejoices  in  spirit  in  me,  and  says  so  still.  His 
own  rest,  His  own  peace.  His  own  joy  He  gives  me.  He  kisses 
me  with  the  kisses  of  His  love,  which  are  better  than  wine.  Often 
I  find  myself  wondering  whether  it  is  possible  for  her,  who  is 
taken,  to  have  more  joy  in  His  presence  than  He  has  given  me. 


SHALL  NEVER  THIRST  209 

If  He  has  taken  her  to  heaven,  He  has  also  brought  heaven 
here  to  me,  for  He  is  heaven.  There  is  no  night,  no  gloom,  in 
His  presence.     In  His  presence  there  is  "  fullness  of  joy." 

At  times  He  does  suffer  me  to  reaUse  all  that  was,  but  is 
not  now.  At  times  I  can  almost  hear  again  the  sweet  voice  of 
my  Gracie  ;  feel  the  presence  of  httle  Samuel's  head  on  my  bosom. 
And  Noel  and  his  mother — how  sweet  the  recollection,  and  yet 
how  it  makes  the  heart  ache  1  .  .  .  And  then,  He  who  wiU 
soon  come  and  wipe  away  every  tear  comes  and  takes  all  bitter- 
ness from  them  .  .  .  and  fills  my  heart  with  deep,  true,  unutter- 
able gladness.  I  have  not  to  seek  Him  now ;  He  never  leaves 
me.  At  night  He  smooths  my  pillow ;  in  the  morning  He 
wakes  my  heart  to  His  love.  "  I  will  be  with  thee  aU  day  long  : 
thou  shalt  not  be  alone,  nor  lonely."  I  never  was  so  happy, 
dear  Mrs.  Berger,  I  know  you  sympathise,  and  I  feel  I  must 
teU  you  of  His  love.     It  is  of  Jesus  I  would  speak  : 

He  brings  a  poor,  vile  sinner 
Into  His  house  of  wine. 

Meanwhile  there  was  no  lessening  of  the  pressure  of 
outward  difficulties.  Politically,  the  aspect  of  affairs  had 
for  months  been  darker  than  Mr.  Taylor  had  ever  known  it 
in  China.  The  Tien-tsin  massacre  in  which  twenty-one 
foreigners  had  lost  their  lives,  including  the  French  Consul 
and  Sisters  of  Mercy,  was  still  unsettled,  and  the  Chinese 
authorities,  knowing  that  Europe  was  involved  in  war,  took 
no  steps  to  allay  anti-foreign  feeling. 

"  In  the  event  of  any  riot  now,"  Mr.  Taylor  had  written  in 
October,  "  not  only  a  few  plunderers  are  to  be  feared :  aU  the 
people  are  roused.  .  .  .  Unless  something  is  done  about  the 
Tien-tsin  murders  before  long,  I  fear  you  will  leam  of  even  more 
serious  troubles.  The  Chinese  generally  are  satisfied  that  only 
consciousness  of  guilt,  and  weakness,  have  prevented  vengeance 
from  reaching  the  perpetrators  of  those  crimes  :  in  other  words, 
that  foreigners  do  really  eat  children,  etc.,  and  are  now  unable 
to  defend  themselves.  .  .  .  But  the  Lord  reigns."  ^ 

1  "  Never  in  my  lifetime  has  any  year  witnessed  such  events  as  has 
the  year  1870,"  Mr.  Berger  had  gone  on  to  say  in  the  letter  of  July  30, 
quoted  above,  "  whether  in  relation  to  our  mission  or  the  world  at  large. 
Rome  is  now  I  suppose  the  capital  of  free  Italy.  France  lies  humiliated 
to  a  degree.  The  Pope's  temporal  power  is  no  more.  China  seems  to  be 
rising  to  expel  foreigners,  the  heralds  of  the  Cross  among  them.  And 
personally  we  have  suffered  the  loss  of  the  most  devoted  labourer  for 
China's  milhons  that  could  be  found,  as  well  as  of  a  beloved  friend.  '  Be 
still  and  know  that  I  am  God,'  is  a  word  appropriate  at  such  a  juncture. 
May  we  all  have  grace  to  give  heed  to  it." 

P 


210         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

It  was  scarcely  to  be  wondered  at  that  the  long  strain 
of  excitement  and  danger  should  tell  on  the  nerves,  and  even 
the  spiritual  life  of  lonely  missionaries  ;  but  it  was  no  little 
sorrow  to  Mr.  Taylor  when  an  inland  station  was  abandoned 
that  might  have  been  held,  and  when  some  dear  fellow- 
workers  seemed  to  fail  in  faith  and  courage.  He  knew  the 
weakness  of  his  own  heart  too  well  to  be  harsh  toward 
others,  and  sought  as  far  as  in  him  lay  to  strengthen  their 
hands  in  God.  The  last  day  of  the  year  was  set  apart  as 
usual  for  prayer  and  fasting,  in  arranging  for  which  Mr. 
Taylor  wrote  to  the  members  of  the  Mission  : 

The  present  year  (1870)  has  been  in  many  ways  remarkable. 
Perhaps  every  one  of  our  number  has  been  more  or  less  face  to 
face  with  danger,  perplexity  and  distress  ;  but  out  of  it  all  the 
Lord  has  delivered  us.  And  some  of  us,  who  have  drunk  of  the 
cup  of  the  Man  of  Sorrows  more  deeply  than  ever  before,  can 
testify  that  it  has  been  a  most  blessed  year  to  our  souls,  and  can 
give  God  thanks  for  it.  Personally,  it  has  been  alike  the  most 
sorrowful  and  the  most  blessed  year  of  my  life,  and  I  doubt  not 
that  others  have  to  a  greater  or  lesser  extent  had  the  same 
experience.  We  have  put  to  the  proof.  His  faithfulness.  His 
power  to  support  in  trouble  and  to  give  patience  under  affliction, 
as  well  as  to  deliver  from  danger.  And  should  greater  dangers 
await  us,  should  deeper  sorrov/s  come  than  any  we  have  yet  felt, 
it  is  to  be  hoped  that  they  will  be  met  in  a  strengthened  confidence 
in  our  God. 

We  have  had  great  cause  for  thankfulness  in  one  respect  :  we 
have  been  so  placed  as  to  show  the  native  Christians  that  our  posi- 
tion as  well  as  theirs  has  been,  and  may  be  again,  one  of  danger. 
And  they  have  been  helped,  doubtless,  to  look  from  "  foreign 
power  "  to  God  Himself  for  protection,  by  the  facts  that  (i)  the 
former  has  been  felt  to  be  uncertain  and  unreliable,  both  with 
regard  to  themselves  and  to  us,  and  (2)  that  we  have  been  kept 
in  calmness  and  joy  in  our  various  positions  of  duty.  If  in  any 
measure  we  have  failed  to  improve  for  their  good  this  opportunity, 
or  have  failed  to  rest  for  ourselves  in  God's  power  to  sustain  in 
or  protect  from  danger,  as  He  sees  best,  let  us  humbly  confess 
this  and  all  conscious  failure  to  our  faithful,  covenant-keeping 
God.  .  .  . 

I  trust  we  are  all  fully  satisfied  that  we  are  God's  servants, 
sent  by  Him  to  the  various  posts  we  occupy,  and  that  we  are 
doing  His  work  in  them.  He  set  before  us  the  open  doors  into 
which  we  have  entered,  and  in  past  times  of  excitement  He  has 


SHALL  NEVER  THIRST  211 

preserved  us  in  them.  We  did  not  come  to  China  because 
missionary  work  here  was  either  safe  or  easy,  but  because  He 
had  called  us.  We  did  not  enter  upon  our  present  positions 
under  a  guarantee  of  human  protection,  but  relying  on  the 
promise  of  His  presence.  The  accidents  of  ease  or  difficulty, 
of  apparent  safety  or  danger,  of  man's  approbation  or  disapproval, 
in  no  wise  affect  our  duty.  Should  circumstances  arise  involving 
us  in  what  may  seem  special  danger,  I  trust  we  shall  have  grace 
to  manifest  the  reahty  and  depth  of  our  trust  in  Him,  and  by 
our  faithfulness  to  our  charge  prove  that  we  are  followers  of  the 
Good  Shepherd  who  did  not  flee  from  death  itself.  .  .  .  But, 
if  we  would  manifest  this  calmness  then,  we  must  seek  the  needed 
grace  now.  It  is  too  late  to  look  for  arms  and  begin  to  drill 
when  in  presence  of  the  foe. 

With  regard  to  funds  Mr.  Taylor  continued  : 

I  need  not  remind  you  of  the  liberal  help  which,  in  our  need, 
the  Lord  has  sent  us  direct  from  certain  donors,  nor  of  the  blessed 
fact  that  He  abideth  faithful,  and  cannot  deny  Himself.  If 
we  are  reaUy  trusting  in  Him  and  seeking  from  Him,  we  cannot 
be  put  to  shame  :  if  not,  perhaps  the  sooner  we  find  the  unsound- 
ness of  any  other  foundation,  the  better.  The  Mission  funds, 
or  the  donors,  are  a  poor  substitute  for  the  Hving  God. 

So  great  was  the  pressure  on  Mr.  Taylor  at  this  time  that 
he  wrote  early  in  December  that  he  had  never  known  any- 
thing like  it,  save  just  before  leaving  England  with  the 
Lammermuir  Party.  Missing  the  efficient  help  of  both  Mrs. 
Taylor  and  Miss  Blatchley,  he  was  overwhelmed  with  corre- 
spondence, accounts  and  all  manner  of  detail  in  addition  to 
the  general  direction  of  the  work.  But  for  Mr.  C.  T.  Fishe, 
who  had  now  been  twelve  months  in  China,  he  could  not 
have  got  through  at  all,  and  it  was  v^dth  thankfulness  he 
saw  his  way  at  the  close  of  the  year  to  appointing  him 
Secretary  to  the  Mission  on  the  field. 

Well  was  it  that  such  help  came  when  it  did,  for  Mr. 
Taylor  had  borne  all  and  more  than  he  had  strength  for 
physically.  Flooded  though  his  soul  had  been  with  joy  in 
the  Lord,  the  poor  body  had  suffered,  and  he  had  to  learn 
more  than  ever  before  of  the  close  and  often  humbling  con- 
nection betw^een  the  one  and  the  other.  A  badly  deranged 
liver  made  him  sleepless  and  brought  on  painful  physical 


212         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

depression.  This  was  increased  by  lung-trouble  which 
caused  not  only  pain  but  serious  difficulty  in  breathing. 
And  time  did  not  lessen  the  desolation.  After  the  home- 
life  in  which  he  had  dehghted,  it  was  a  change  indeed  to  be 
one  of  a  bachelor  household.  But  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Rudland 
had  been  called  to  Tai-chow-fu  ;  Mrs.  Duncan  had  rejoined 
her  husband  at  Nanking  ;  and  with  his  youngest  child  still 
in  Ningpo,  Mr.  Taylor  had  only  one  or  two  young  men  for 
his  companions.  His  suffering  condition  made  liim  the 
more  conscious  of  outward  loneliness. 

"  Well,  it  is  but  one  day  at  a  time,"  he  wrote  to  Mr.  Berger 
at  the  close  of  the  year.  "  To-day,  by  His  grace,  we  can  bear 
to-day's  burden  ;  to-morrow  we  may  be  with  Him  where  there 
is  no  burden  ;  or,  if  otherwise.  He  will  be  with  us,  and  in  His 
presence  there  is  '  fullness  of  joy/  this  world's  tribulation  not- 
withstanding." 

This  experience  continued  for  some  time,  so  that  six 
weeks  later  he  was  writing  of  "  days  of  sorrow  and  nights  of 
heaviness,"  but  of  his  one  unfailing  Refuge  also,  as  *'  wonder- 
fully near,  wonderfully  real."  ^  And  in  it  all  he  was  proving 
the  sustaining  power  of  the  Word  of  God. 

"  *  In  due  season  we  shall  reap  if  we  faint  not ' — this  has 
been  to  me  the  word  in  season  I  know  not  how  often,"  he  wrote 
to  Mr.  Berger  early  in  the  New  Year.  "  And  the  best  of  God's 
precious  Word  is  that  the  more  nourishment  and  savour  we  get 
out  of  it,  the  more  we  find  in  it.  It  does  not  fail  nor  weary  us 
with  sameness,  however  often  we  come  to  it." 

Passages  which  already  had  meant  much  to  him  unfolded 
new  depth  and  meaning,  and  in  the  very  darkness  permitted 

^  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Grattan  Guinness  he  had  written  in  January  (1871) 
thanking  them  for  no  little  help  afforded  to  Miss  Blatchley  and  his  children 
while  in  Paris,  and  saying  as  to  his  own  experiences  : 

"  I  need  not  tell  you  of  the  difficulties  and  dangers,  the  pressure  daily 
changing,  and  the  sickness  and  sorrows  of  the  past  year.  I  think  I  may 
say  that  in  the  aggregate  they  have  equalled,  if  not  exceeded,  those  of 
the  sixteen  previous  years  of  my  missionary  labour.  Be  this  as  it  may, 
the  Lord  had  previously  taught  me  practically,  as  I  never  knew  it  before, 
our  present,  real  oneness  with  Christ ;  and  with  the  exception  of  the  past 
two  months,  it  has  been  the  happiest,  the  most  joyous  year  of  my  life. 
For  the  last  two  months  my  liver  has  been  so  deranged  that  I  have  rather 
realised  the  Lord  Jesus  as  my  refuge  than  as  my  abounding  joy  ;  but  none 
the  less  precious  are  the  blessings  I  receive  in  Him.  Oh,  my  dear  Brother  ! 
in  this  dark,  dark  land,  one  does  need  a  deep  assurance  of  the  presence  of 
Jesus." 


SHALL  NEVER  THIRST  213 

for  a  time,  he  was  making  more  his  own  treasures  which 
through  coming  years  he  was  to  pour  out  for  others.  Thus 
to  Mr.  Miiller,  who  in  the  recent  death  of  his  wife  had  lost 
his  chief  friend  and  helper,  he  wrote  in  March  (1871)  : 

You  do  know,  beloved  Brother,  what  the  cup  is  that  I  am 
daily  called  to  drink — yes,  many  times  every  day.  You  know 
that  it  does  not  become  less  bitter,  nor  is  the  lack  of  help  less 
felt  as  days  run  on  into  weeks  and  weeks  into  months.  And  you 
know  too  how  His  grace  can  make  one  glad  to  have  stcch  a  cup 
from  His  hand,  or  any  other  cup  He  may  be  pleased  to  give. 
Yet  the  flesh  is  weak  ;  and  your  sympathy  and  prayers  I  do 
prize  and  thank  you  for.  They  tell  me  of  Him  Who,  when  the 
poor  and  needy  seek  water  and  there  is  none — no,  not  one  drop — 
opens  rivers  in  high  places  and  fountains  in  the  midst  of  the 
valleys. 

It  was  under  these  circumstances  he  came  to  see  fresh 
power  and  beauty  in  the  promises  from  our  Lord's  own  lips 
which  had  already  been  made  so  vital  in  his  experience. 
"  Whosoever  drinketh  of  the  water  that  I  shall  give  him," 
stood  out  in  letters  of  light  as  he  saw  the  full  bearing  of  the 
original.  The  force  of  continuous  habit  expressed  by  the 
present  tense  of  Greek  verbs  flooded  the  passage  with  new 
meaning,  over  against  his  long-continued  and  increasing 
need. 

"  Do  not  let  us  change  the  Saviour's  words,"  he  often  said 
in  later  years.  "  It  is  not  '  Whosoever  has  drunk,'  but  '  Whoso- 
ever drinketh.'  It  is  not  of  one  isolated  draught  He  speaks, 
or  even  of  many,  but  of  the  continuous  habit  of  the  soul.  Thus 
in  John  vi.  35  the  full  meaning  is,  '  He  who  is  habitually  coming 
to  me  shall  by  no  means  hunger,  and  he  who  is  beheving  on  me 
shall  by  no  means  thirst.'  The  habit  of  coming  in  faith  to  Him 
is  incompatible  with  unmet  hunger  and  thirst." 

"  It  seems  to  me,"  he  had  written  to  a  friend  at  the  time, 
"  that  where  many  of  us  err  is  in  leaving  our  drinking  in  the 
past,  while  our  thirst  continues  present.  What  we  need  is  to 
be  drinking — yes,  thankful  for  the  occasion  which  drives  us  to 
drink  ever  more  deeply  of  the  Living  Water." 


PART    IV 

THE   GOD   OF  THE   IMPOSSIBLE 

1871-1877.    Aet.  39-45- 

Chap.  15.  Thou  Remainest. 

16.  Things  will  Look  Up. 

17.  Not  Disobedient  to  the  Heavenly  Vision. 
„      18.  Out  of  Weakness  were  made  Strong. 

„      ig.    The  Faithfulness  of  God. 
^     20.    The  Gates  of  the  West. 


Far  up  in  the  Alpine  hollows,  year  by  year,  God  works  one  of 
His  marvels.  The  snow  patches  lie  there,  frozen  into  ice  at  their 
edges  from  the  strife  of  sunny  days  and  frosty  nights  ;  and  through 
that  ice-crust  come,  unscathed,  flowers  in  full  bloom. 

Back  in  the  days  of  the  bygone  summer,  the  little  soldanella 
plant  spread  its  leaves  wide  and  flat  on  the  ground  to  drink  in  the 
sun-rays,  and  it  kept  them  stored  in  the  root  through  the  winter. 
Then  spring  came,  and  stirred  its  pulses  even  below  the  snow-shroud. 
And  as  it  sprouted,  warmth  was  given  out  in  such  strange  measure 
that  it  thawed  a  little  dome  in  the  snow  above  its  head.  Higher 
and  higher  it  grew,  and  always  above  it  rose  the  bell  of  air,  till  the 
flower-bud  formed  safely  within  it ;  and  at  last  the  icy  covering  of 
the  air-bell  gave  way,  and  let  the  blossom  through  into  the  sunsliine, 
the  crystalline  texture  of  its  mauve  petals  sparkling  like  the  snow 
itself,  as  if  it  bore  the  traces  of  the  fight  through  which  it  had  come. 

And  the  fragile  thing  rings  an  echo  in  our  hearts  that  none  of 
the  jewel-like  flowers  nestled  in  the  warm  turf  on  the  slopes  below 
could  waken.  We  love  to  see  the  impossible  done.  And  so  does 
God. 

You  do  not  test  the  resources  of  God  till  you  try  the  impossible. — 
F.  B.  Meyer. 

God  loves  with  a  great  love  the  man  whose  heart  is  bursting  with 
a  passion  for  the  impossible. — William  Booth. 

From  2^ he  Glory  of  the  Impossible  by  L.  Lilias  Trotter. 


CHAPTER  XV 

THOU   REMAINEST 
1872.     Aet.  40. 

March  winds,  tossing  the  big  elms  at  Saint  Hill  and  sweeping 
round  the  house  that  had  so  warmly  welcomed  Mr.  Taylor 
on  his  return  from  China,  did  but  make  the  fireside  more 
home-like  when  at  length  he  had  time  to  sit  down  quietly 
and  talk  over  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Berger  all  that  was  on  their 
hearts.  Six  years  almost  had  elapsed  since  the  outgoing  of 
the  "  Lammermuir  Party,'*  years  of  wonderful  progress 
considering  the  initial  difficulties.  The  mission  which  up  to 
that  time  had  had  but  two  stations  and  seven  members, 
now  numbered  more  than  thirty  foreign  and  fifty  native 
workers,  in  thirteen  central  stations  at  an  average  distance 
of  a  hundred  miles  apart.  Nothing  could  have  exceeded, 
as  we  have  seen,  the  devotion  with  which  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Berger  had  watched  over  its  interests,  giving  their  time  and 
substance,  their  home,  themselves  indeed  to  its  service. 
And  now,  all  that  must  change.  The  love  and  prayers 
would  continue,  but  to  younger  hands  must  be  committed 
the  task  that  had  proved  too  much  for  their  strength. 
Saint  Hill  was  to  be  sold,  its  beloved  owners  finding  it  need- 
ful to  winter  abroad,  and  to  them  no  less  than  to  Mr.  Taylor 
the  parting  was  painful,  and  the  position  full  of  problems. 
For  who  was  to  take  their  place,  and  bear  all  the  responsi- 
bihty  of  the  home-work  of  the  mission  ?  Who  would  edit 
its  Occasional  Paper,  test  and  train  its  candidates,  carry  on 
its  correspondence,  keep  in  touch  with  its  friends,  and  do 
all  the  thousand  and  one  things  they  had  done  without 

217 


2i8         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

expense  to  its  funds,  prompted  by  a  love  that  felt  it  never 
could  do  enough  ?  Such  co-operation  could  no  more  be 
replaced  than  parental  care  in  a  family,  and  the  need  for 
the  change  had  come  so  suddenly  that  Mr.  Taylor  had  no 
plans  in  view.  The  work  in  China  was  now  a  large  one, 
entaihng  an  expenditure  of  about  three  hundred  pounds  a 
month.  His  own  health  was  much  impaired  by  those  six 
strenuous  years,  and  rest  of  mind  and  body  would  have 
been  grateful  in  view  especially  of  a  speedy  return  to  the 
front.  But  the  home  base  could  not  be  neglected.  Un- 
equal as  he  felt  to  the  task,  there  was  nothing  for  it  but  to 
take  up  the  entire  responsibihty  himself,  looking  to  the 
Lord  to  liberate  him  when  and  as  He  should  see  fit.  "  Thou 
remainest  "  was  a  certainty  that  meant  much  to  Hudson 
Taylor  in  those  days. 

"  My  path  is  far  from  easy,"  he  had  written  in  February. 
"  I  never  was  more  happy  in  Jesus,  and  I  am  very  sure  He  will 
not  fail  us ;  but  never  from  the  time  of  the  foundation  of  the 
Mission  have  we  been  so  utterly  cast  upon  God.  It  is  well 
doubtless  that  it  should  be  so.  Difficulties  afford  a  platform 
upon  which  He  can  show  Himself.  Without  them  we  could 
never  know  how  tender,  faithful  and  almighty  our  God  is.  How 
much  we  may  and  ought  to  trust  Him  !  "  ^ 

"  The  change  about  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Berger's  retiring  has  tried 
me  a  good  deal,"  he  wrote  a  Uttle  later  to  the  same  correspondent. 
"  I  love  them  so  dearly  I  And  it  seems  another  link  severed 
with  the  past  in  which  my  precious  departed  one  (who  is  seldom 
absent  from  my  thoughts)  had  a  part.  But  His  word  is, '  Behold, 
I  make  all  things  new.'  " 

The  week  spent  at  Saint  Hill  in  March  enabled  Mr. 
Taylor  to  go  through  all  the  accounts  of  the  mission,  the 
balance  handed  over  by  Mr.  Berger  being  £336  '.1:9.  It  is 
interesting  to  note  that  the  first  entry  in  the  cash-book  after 
this  transaction  was  a  gift  of  fifty  pounds  from  the  retiring 
Home  Director.  To  the  friends  of  the  mission  Mr.  Berger 
wrote  that  same  day  (March  19,  1872)  : 

It  is  difficult  to  describe  the  feehngs  with  which  I  commence 

1  To  Miss  Desgraz  at  Yang-chow,  written  from  Salisbury  at  5  a.m. 
on  a  wintry  morning,  February  8,  1872. 


THOU  REMAINEST  219 

this  letter.  .  .  .  You  will  gather  from  the  notice  on  the  face  of 
this  Number  ^  that  the  management  of  the  home  department 
of  this  Mission  is  about  to  pass  into  other  hands.  Faihng  strength 
on  the  part  of  myself  and  my  dear  wife,  combined  with  increas- 
ing claims,  unmistakably  indicate  the  necessity  for  this  step. 
Our  sympathies  for  the  work  are  as  warm  as  ever,  and  we  would 
fain  hope  that  our  future  efforts  in  China's  behalf,  if  they  should 
be  of  a  less  active  nature,  may  not  prove  less  serviceable. 

My  relation  with  dear  Mr.  Taylor  has  been  one  of  unbroken 
and  harmonious  fellowship,  to  which  I  shall  ever  look  back  with 
feelings  of  satisfaction  and  gratitude.  Mr,  Taylor  purposes 
taking  the  management  of  the  home  department  upon  himself 
pro  tern,  to  which  I  think  there  can  be  no  objection,  as  none  of 
the  funds  subscribed  for  the  Mission  are  ever  appropriated  to 
his  private  use.  It  is  sincerely  to  be  hoped  that  in  taking  this 
responsibility  he  will  not  overtax  his  powers,  and  that  ere  long 
he  may  succeed  in  finding  efficient  and  peraianent  helpers.  .  .  . 

Writing  to  his  parents,  a  few  weeks  later,  Mr.  Taylor 
used  note-paper  bearing  the  modest  heading, 

China  Inland  Mission, 
6  Pyrland  Road, 

Newington  Green,  N. 

It  was  a  far  cry  from  Saint  Hill  to  a  little  suburban  street 
on  the  outskirts  of  London,  such  as  Pyrland  Road  was  in 
those  days  ;  and  the  change  from  Mr.  Berger's  library  to 
the  small  back  bedroom  which  had  to  do  duty  as  study  and 
office  in  one  was  equally  complete.  But  how  dear  and  sacred 
to  many  a  heart  is  every  remembrance  of  number  six  and 
the  adjacent  houses — numbers  four  and  two — acquired  as 
need  arose.  For  more  than  twenty  years  the  entire  home- 
work of  the  Mission  was  carried  on  from  this  centre,  a  few 
steps  only  from  its  present  quarters.  The  weekly  prayer- 
meeting  was  held  in  the  downstairs  rooms,  two  of  which 
could  be  thrown  together  ;  and  many  a  devoted  band  of 
missionaries,  including  "  the  Seventy  "  and  "  the  Hundred," 
were  sent  forth  from  these  doors,  from  which  no  suitable 
candidate  for  work  in  China  was  ever  turned  away.  But 
we  are  running  far  ahead  of  the  small  beginnings  of  1872, 
when  Mr.  Taylor  was  himself  the  whole  executive  of  the 

*  The  letter  appeared  in  Occasional  Paper,  No.  29. 


220         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Mission,  and  it  is  well  to  be  recalled  by  one  who  cherishes  a 
vivid  memory  of  those  eariy  days. 

In  the  busy  worid  of  London,  a  bright  lad  full  of  life  and 
spirits  had  given  his  heart  to  the  Lord,  and  his  Hfe  also,  for 
whatever  service  He  might  appoint.  Hearing  an  address 
from  Mr.  Meadows,  recently  returned  from  China,  he  had  a 
strong  desire  to  learn  more  about  the  Inland  Mission,  little 
thinking  that  he  would  one  day  be  its  chief  sinologue  as  well 
as  one  of  its  most  useful  workers.^ 

"  After  a  good  deal  of  thought  and  prayer/'  he  wrote,  "  I 
determined  to  seek  an  interview  with  Mr.  Taylor  ;  and  in  com- 
pany with  a  friend  started  out  one  Saturday  afternoon  for  the 
north  of  London,  to  find  Pyiiand  Road,  where  the  headquarters 
of  the  Mission  were  located.  When  we  reached  the  place,  we 
found  that  but  half  the  street  was  built,  and  away  to  the  north 
stretched  open  fields.  Traces  of  this  state  of  things  still  exist 
in  the  name  '  Green  Lanes  '  borne  by  a  busy  street  close  by.  .  .  . 
The  house  we  sought  was  number  six,  and  on  reaching  it  we  were 
shown  into  the  room  where  the  meeting  was  to  be  held.  Strictly 
speaking  it  was  two  rooms,  divided  by  folding  doors,  but  these 
were  thrown  open  and  the  two  rooms  turned  into  one.  A  large 
harmonium  stood  at  one  side,  and  various  Chinese  articles  were 
arranged  in  other  parts  of  the  room,  but  beyond  this  there  was 
little  either  of  furniture  or  decoration.  A  large  text,  '  My  God 
shall  supply  aU  your  need,'  faced  the  door  by  which  we  entered, 
and  as  I  was  not  accustomed  to  seeing  texts  hung  on  walls  in 
that  way,  decidedly  impressed  me.  Between  a  dozen  and  twenty 
people  were  present,  including  the  late  Miss  Blatchley. 

"  Mr.  Taylor  opened  the  meeting  by  giving  out  a  hymn, 
and  seating  himself  at  the  harmonium  led  the  singing.  His 
appearance  did  not  impress  me.  He  was  slightly  built,  and 
spoke  in  a  gentle  voice.  Like  most  young  men,  I  suppose  I 
associated  power  with  noise,  and  looked  for  great  physical 
presence  in  a  leader.  But  when  he  said,  '  Let  us  pray,'  and 
proceeded  to  lead  the  meeting  in  prayer,  my  ideas  underwent 
a  change.  I  had  never  heard  any  one  pray  Hke  that.  There 
was  a  simplicity,  a  tenderness,  a  boldness,  a  power  that  hushed 

1  The  name  of  Mr.  F.  W.  Bailer  is  well  known  to  students  of  Chinese, 
who  are  indebted  to  him  for  many  valuable  helps,  including  his  Primer 
and  Dictionary.  A  member  of  the  Mandarin  Bible  Revision  Committee, 
his  work  is  now  chiefly  literary  ;  but  it  is  interesting  to  recall  that  long 
before  he  became  distinguished  in  this  realm  he  was  among  the  early 
pioneers  of  the  Mission  whose  itinerations  did  so  much  to  open  inland 
China  to  the  Gospel. 


THOU  REMAINEST  221 

and  subdued  one,  and  made  it  clear  that  God  had  admitted  him 
into  the  inner  circle  of  His  friendship.  He  spoke  with  God  face 
to  face,  as  a  man  talketh  with  his  friend.  Such  praying  was 
evidently  the  outcome  of  long  tarrying  in  the  secret  place,  and 
was  as  a  dew  from  the  Lord.  I  have  heard  many  men  pray  in 
public  since  then,  but  the  prayers  of  Mr.  Taylor  and  the  prayers 
of  Mr.  Spurgeon  stand  all  by  themselves.  Who  that  heard 
could  ever  forget  them  ?  It  was  the  experience  of  a  lifetime 
to  hear  Mr.  Spurgeon  pray,  taking  as  it  were  the  great  congrega- 
tion of  six  thousand  people  by  the  hand,  and  leading  them  into 
the  Holy  Place  ;  and  to  hear  Mr.  Taylor  plead  for  China  was 
to  know  something  of  what  is  meant  by  '  the  effectual,  fervent 
prayer  of  a  righteous  man.' 

"  The  meeting  lasted  from  four  to  six  o'clock,  but  seemed 
one  of  the  shortest  prayer-meetings  I  had  ever  attended.  Most 
present  took  part  audibly.  There  were  no  long,  awkward 
pauses ;  but  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  the  Spirit  of  Uberty,  was 
manifestly  present.  The  meeting  over,  tea  was  served,  giving 
an  opportunity  for  friendly  intercourse.  I  introduced  myself 
to  Mr.  Taylor,  who  asked  me  to  stay  till  others  were  gone,  when 
he  would  see  me  alone.  This  he  did,  taking  me  upstairs  to  a 
room  on  the  first  floor.  He  w£is  the  soul  of  kindness — drawing 
me  out,  making  me  feel  quite  at  home,  and  encouraging  the  hope 
that  I  might  one  day  see  China  and  labour  there.  This  was  more 
indeed  than  I  had  anticipated  when  I  set  out  to  seek  him.  My 
idea  was  that  perchance  I  might  some  day  go  as  a  helper  to  a 
missionary  :  to  be  a  missionary  myself  seemed  too  great  an 
honour.  .  .  .  Seeing  I  was  young,  scarcely  twenty,  Mr.  Taylor 
gave  me  some  good  advice  as  to  what  to  do  until  the  Lord's  way 
should  be  made  plain.  The  interview  over,  I  went  home  with 
a  Ught  heart,  filled  with  gratitude  to  God  for  His  goodness  in 
thus  encouraging  me  to  hope  in  Him." 

Longing  to  press  forward  with  the  great  task  before  the 
Mission,  it  must  have  been  difficult  indeed  for  Mr.  Taylor 
to  curb  himself  to  the  routine  of  office  work  as  the  days  and 
weeks  went  by.  He  was  not  in  haste  to  rush  into  new 
arrangements,  having  no  indication  as  to  what  might  be 
the  mind  of  the  Lord.  But  when  prayer  for  the  right 
helpers  seemed  to  bring  no  answer,  and  the  work  to  be  done 
kept  him  busy  morning,  noon  and  night,  it  would  have  been 
so  easy  to  be  impatient  or  discouraged  !  But  in  the  dark 
days  of  1870  he  had  learned  some  deep  lessons  about  waiting 
for,  as  well  as  waiting  upon  God. 


222         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

"  Beloved  Brother,"  he  had  written  in  this  connection  to 
one  with  him  in  China,  "  you  are  passing  through  a  time  of  trial 
— or  to  change  the  word  to  bring  out  the  meaning  more  clearly, 
a  time  of  testing,  proving.  The  Lord  make  you  to  stand  the 
test,  and  when  proved  enable  you  to  approve  yourself  before 
God  and  man  as  a  labourer  who  needeth  not  to  be  ashamed. 
I  ought  to  be  able  to  sympathise  with  you,  and  I  am.  .  .  .  This 
year  has  been  by  far  the  most  painful  of  my  life,  but  also  by  far 
the  most  blessed.  In  all  these  trials  I  have  had  the  assured 
confidence  that  the  work  is  His,  not  mine  ;  that  He  had  permitted, 
or  ordered,  the  very  things  which  my  short-sightedness  would 
fain  have  removed  or  prevented  ;  that  He  could  terminate  our 
difficulties  at  any  moment,  and  sooner  or  later  would  terminate 
them,  if  that  should  be  for  His  glory.  .  .  . 

"  Then  again,  it  is  no  small  comfort  to  me  to  know  that  God 
has  called  me  to  my  work,  putting  me  where  I  am  and  as  I  am. 
I  have  not  sought  the  position,  and  I  dare  not  leave  it.  He 
knows  why  He  places  me  here — whether  to  do,  or  learn,  or  suffer. 
'  He  that  helieveth  shall  not  make  haste.*  That  is  no  easy  lesson 
for  you  or  me  to  learn  ;  but  I  honestly  think  ten  years  would  be 
well  spent,  and  we  should  have  our  full  value  for  them,  if  we 
thoroughly  learned  it  in  them.  .  .  .  Moses  seems  to  have  been 
taken  aside  for  forty  years  to  learn  it.  .  .  .  Meanwhile  let  us 
beware  ahke  of  the  haste  of  the  impatient,  impetuous  flesh, 
and  of  its  disappointment  and  weariness." 

The  deepened  current  of  Mr.  Taylor's  own  life  could  not 
but  be  felt  throughout  the  circle  of  the  Mission.  His  chief 
reason  for  settling  in  North  London  had  been  to  be  in  touch 
with  "  Mildmay  "  and  all  it  stood  for — the  far-reaching 
institutions  founded  by  the  Rev.  W.  Pennefather,  Vicar  of 
the  parish,  whose  ministry  he  greatly  valued.  The  annual 
Conference  convened  by  him  for  Christians  of  all  denomina- 
tions was  still  the  only  one  of  its  kind  in  England,  and  made 
the  neighbourhood  a  gathering  ground  for  spiritually- 
minded  people  to  whom  oneness  in  Christ  was  more  than 
minor  differences.  Mr.  Taylor  had  been  in  touch  with  the 
Conference  from  its  early  days  at  Barnet,  and  now  that  he 
was  a  near  neighbour  Mr.  Pennefather  soon  discovered 
qualities  that  fitted  him  to  take  a  leading  place  among  its 
speakers.  The  meetings  of  1872  were  largely  attended, 
visitors  coming  from  the  Continent  as  well  as  from  all  parts 
of  the  United  Kingdom  to  be  present.     Two  thousand  five 


-THOU  REMAINEST  223 

hundred  people  crowded  the  great  hall  daily,  and  among  the 
ministers  on  the  platform  were  D.  L.  Moody,  and  the  leaders 
of  the  movement  for  Scriptural  holiness  which  had  already 
brought  so  much  blessing  through  the  pages  of  The  Revival. 
It  was  a  surprise  to  Mr,  Taylor,  and  doubtless  to  many  who 
heard  him,  that  a  missionary,  comparatively  young  and 
little  known,  should  be  asked  to  give  the  opening  address, 
but  the  promise  he  had  learned  to  claim  was  fulfilled  that 
day  in  his  experience  as  never  before — "  from  him  shall  flow 
rivers  of  living  water.*' 

Not  the  great  meetings,  however,  or  that  address  so  full 
of  blessing,  made  the  deepest  impression  on  the  young  visitor 
from  Barnstaple  who  was  staying  at  Pyrland  Road.  Memor- 
able as  they  were,  she  was  more  interested  and  even  more 
helped  by  the  family  life  she  was  sharing  day  by  day.  The 
place  at  Mr.  Taylor's  side  that  had  been  so  empty  was  now 
taken  by  one  fitted  in  every  way  to  be  a  help  and  comfort. 
It  had  been  his  loved  one's  wish  for  his  own  sake,  as  well  as 
that  of  the  children  and  the  Mission,  that  Mr.  Taylor  should 
marry  again,  and  very  unexpectedly  his  thoughts  had  been 
turned  in  that  direction.  Miss  Faulding,  the  fife  by  God's 
blessing  of  the  women's  work  in  Hang-chow,  had  been 
obliged  to  come  home  on  furlough,  and  travelling  by  the 
same  steamer — other  arrangements  having  fallen  through 
at  the  last  moment — Mr.  Taylor  found  the  regard  he  had 
long  felt  for  her  developing  into  something  more  than  friend- 
ship. The  marriage  had  not  been  long  delayed,  and  he  was 
thankful  for  the  children  to  see  as  much  of  her  as  possible 
before  she  returned  with  him  to  China.  But  though  it  was 
the  home  of  a  bride,  the  arrangements  at  Pyrland  Road 
were  just  as  simple  as  at  Coborn  Street  in  the  early  days, 
and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  were  carefully  economising  in  order 
to  add  to  the  funds  of  the  Mission. 

Miss  Soltau,  who  had  come  up  from  Barnstaple  with  the 
earnest  desire  to  give  her  life  to  China,  was  in  no  way  de- 
terred by  the  real  self-sacrifice  she  saw  at  the  heart  of  things. 
Hudson  Taylor  valued  and  sought  after  among  the  leaders 
of  the  Conference,  and  Hudson  Taylor  in  the  little  office  and 
daily  prayer-meeting  of  the  mission  house  hard  by,  might 


224         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

seem  to  be  living  two  very  different  lives  ;  but  the  reality 
of  the  one  explained  to  her  the  growing  influence  of  the 
other,  and  carried  home  many  a  lesson. 

"  I  remember  dear  Mr.  Taylor's  exhortation,"  she  wrote 
long  after,  "  to  keep  silent  to  all  around  and  let  our  wants  be 
known  to  the  Lord  only.  One  day  when  we  had  had  a  small 
breakfast  and  there  was  scarcely  an3^hing  for  dinner,  I  was  so 
thrilled  to  hear  him  singing  the  children's  hymn  : 

Jesus  loves  me,  this  I  know. 
For  the  Bible  tells  me  so. 

Then  he  called  us  all  together  to  praise  the  Lord  for  His  change- 
less love,  to  tell  our  needs  and  claim  the  promises — and  before 
the  day  was  over  we  were  rejoicing  in  His  gracious  answers." 

Far  from  discouraged  by  the  shortness  of  funds  after 
Mr.  Berger's  retirement,  Mr.  Taylor  was  praying  and  plan- 
ning more  definitely  than  ever  for  advance  to  the  unreached 
interior  of  China.  During  the  week  of  the  Conference  a 
few  special  friends  were  at  Pyrland  Road  between  the 
meetings,  and  standing  before  the  large  map  in  the  sitting- 
room  their  hearts  were  moved  by  the  thought — How  are 
these  Christless  miUions  to  be  reached  ?  Miss  Soltau  was 
of  the  number,  and  well  remembered  Mr.  Taylor  saying  : 

"  Have  you  faith  to  join  me  in  laying  hold  upon  God 
for  eighteen  men  to  go  two  and  two  to  those  unoccupied 
provinces  ?  " 

They  knew  what  he  meant,  and  then  and  there  covenanted 
mth  one  another  to  pray  daily  in  definite  faith  for  this, 
until  the  Lord  should  bring  it  to  pass.  Then  all  joined 
hands,  and  Mr.  Taylor  led  in  a  prayer  never  to  be  forgotten. 

It  was  about  this  time  that,  from  unexpected  quarters, 
guidance  began  to  come  as  to  the  future  management  of 
the  home  side  of  the  Mission.  It  was  but  natural  that  Mr. 
Taylor  had,  perhaps  unconsciously,  been  looking  for  helpers 
who,  like  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Berger,  could  assume  the  whole 
responsibiUty.  But  none  such  were  forthcoming.  The 
burden,  meanwhile,  of  directing  the  work  in  China  from  a 
distance,  as  well  as  attending  to  all  that  had  to  be  done  at 
home,  was  very  heavy.     He  was  toiling   far  beyond  his 


THOU  REMAINEST  225 

strength.  "  The  thing  thou  doest  is  not  good,"  wrote  two 
old  friends,  business  men  in  London  ;  '*  thou  wilt  surely  wear 
thyself  away  ;  .  .  .  thou  art  not  able  to  perform  it  thyself 
alone."  They  urged  the  advice  of  Jethro — to  divide  among 
a  number  such  responsibility  as  could  be  delegated,  offering 
themselves  a  measure  of  help  with  correspondence,  account- 
keeping,  etc. 

At  Greenwich  also,  one  evening  in  July,  the  matter  was 
brought  up  still  more  definitely.  Mr.  Taylor  was  visiting 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Richard  Hill,  who  would  gladly  have  given 
themselves  to  the  work  of  the  Mission  had  family  claims 
permitted.  As  it  was,  Mr.  Hill  suggested  the  formation  of 
a  Council  of  Christian  friends,  not  to  take  any  responsibility 
with  regard  to  the  management  of  affairs  on  the  field,  but 
to  divide  among  themselves  the  home  work  of  the  Mission, 
thus  setting  Mr.  Taylor  free  to  return  to  China. 

This  suggestion,  reinforced  by  Mr.  Hill's  offer  to  become 
Hon.  Secretary  to  such  a  Council,  proved  a  seed  thought. 
The  more  Mr.  Taylor  considered  it,  the  more  he  saw  that  it 
was  simply  an  enlargement  of  the  plan  upon  which  the  C.I.M. 
had  been  worked  from  the  beginning.  A  Council,  not  a 
Committee  of  Management,  could  undertake  many  of  Mr. 
Berger's  former  responsibilities.  Mr.  Taylor  was  purposing 
to  leave  Miss  Blatchley  in  charge  of  his  children  at  Pyrland 
Road.  Intimately  acquainted  with  the  work  both  at  home 
and  in  China,  she  would  be  of  the  greatest  assistance  to  the 
Council,  and  would  be  able  to  keep  up  the  prayer-meeting 
and  provide  a  centre  for  returning  missionaries.  Passing 
through  her  hands  the  daily  correspondence  could  be 
attended  to,  and  only  necessary  letters  forwarded  to  the 
Secretary,  while  the  Council  would  deal  with  candidates 
and  with  funds,  keeping  in  touch  with  the  friends  of  the 
Mission  through  its  Occasional  Paper.  After  some  weeks 
of  thought  and  prayer,  therefore,  he  wrote  to  Mr.  Hill  on 
the  ist  of  August : 

Could  you  take  tea  with  us  on  Tuesday  next  about  6  p.m. 
and  spend  the  evening  ?  I  would  ask  one  or  two  friends  interested 
in  the  work,  and  Mr.  George  and  Mr.  Henry  Soltau,  to  join  us, 
and  we  might  have  some  quiet  prayer  and  conversation  about 

Q 


226         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

the  Mission  and  those  whose  co-operation  it  would  be  well  to 
seek  ;  after  which,  perhaps,  we  might  see  our  way  to  further 
action  more  clearly.  It  seems  to  me  that  a  little  time  thus 
spent  would  be  helpful,  before  asking  many  either  to  meet  or 
to  join  us  in  the  proposed  Council. 

Quietly,  thus,  the  way  opened.  The  meeting  was  held 
and  the  Council  practically  formed  that  night  (August  6, 
1872),  which  in  the  goodness  of  God  has  so  faithfully  stood 
behind  the  work  for  more  than  five-and-forty  years.^ 

It  was  not  a  large  balance  Mr.  Taylor  was  able  to  hand 
over  to  the  Secretaries  when  he  set  out  for  China  a  couple 
of  months  later.  A  httle  over  twenty-one  pounds  was  all 
they  had  in  hand  ;  but  there  was  no  debt,  and  with  all  the 
promises  of  God  for  the  future  as  in  the  past  they  were 
without  carefulness.  With  regard  to  the  new  arrangements, 
Mr.  Taylor  wrote  to  the  friends  of  the  Mission  : 

We  trust  none  will  think  that  because  the  form  of  the  home- 
work is  changed  the  character  of  the  work  itself  is  altered.  Now 
that  the  Mission  has  grown,  more  workers  are  needed  at  home, 
as  abroad.  But  the  principles  of  action  will  be  the  same.  We 
shall  seek  pecuniary  aid  from  God  by  prayer,  as  heretofore. 
He  will  put  it  into  the  hearts  of  those  He  sees  fit  to  use  to  act 
as  His  channels.  When  there  is  money  in  hand,  it  wiU  be 
remitted  to  China  ;  when  there  is  none,  none  wiU  be  sent ;  and 
we  shall  not  draw  upon  home,  so  that  there  can  be  no  going 
into  debt.  Should  our  faith  be  tried,  as  it  has  been  before. 
He  "will  prove  Himself  faithful,  as  He  has  ever  done  ;  nay, 
should  our  faith  fail.  His  faithfulness  wiU  not — for  it  is  written, 
"If  we  believe  not,  yet  He  abideth  faithful." 

Candidates  for  the  Mission,  he  was  glad  to  be  able  to 
announce,  would  have  the  benefit  of  practical  training  in 
London,  in  connection  with  the  Lamb  and  Flag  Schools  and 
Mission  carried  on  by  Mr.  George  Soltau.  Love  radiated 
from  that  centre  amid  the  slums  of  Clerkenwell — warm, 

*  At  the  first  regular  meeting  of  the  Council,  October  4,  1872,  Mr. 
Henry  Soltau  was  appointed  to  act  as  joint  Honorary  Secretary  with  Mr. 
Richard  Hill.  The  remaining  members  were  Messrs.  John  Challice, 
William  Hall,  Joseph  Weatherky,  and  George  Soltau.  The  late  Mr. 
Theodore  Howard,  for  thirty-five  years  the  Home  Director  of  the  Mission, 
and  Mr.  Wilham  Sharp,  now  the  senior  member  of  the  Council,  joined  a 
Ijttle  later — the  former  in  1872  and  the  latter  in  1877. 


THOU  REMAINEST  227 

practical  Christian  love,  drawing  young  and  old,  men, 
women,  and  children,  to  the  Source  whence  it  came.  This 
was  the  power  Mr.  Taylor  longed  to  see  at  work  all  over 
China,  and  he  was  thankful  that  those  who  wished  to  join 
the  C.I.M.  should  be  tested  and  trained  in  such  an  atmo- 
sphere.    On  this  important  subject  he  continued  : 

One  thing,  and  one  only,  will  carry  men  through  all,  and^ 
make  and  keep  them  successful ;  the  Love  of  Christ,  constrain- 
ing and  sustaining,  is  the  only  adequate  power.  Not  our  love 
to  Christ,  nor,  perhaps,  even  Christ's  love  to  us  personally  ;  rather 
His  love  to  j)oor,  ruined  sinners  in  us.  Many  waters  will  not 
quench  that  love,  nor  floods^  drown  it.  That  love  wUl  seek  the 
wandering  sheep  until  they  are  found  ;  and  if,  when  found, 
they  are  but  wayward,  wandering  sheep  still,  will  yet  love  and 
care  for  them.  Oh,  beloved  friends,  pray  that  this  love  may 
be  in  us,  abide  in  us,  dwell  richly  in  us  all  who  are  already  on  the 
field,  and  in  those  who  join  us.  But  this  love  will  not  be  put 
into  any  one  by  a  journey  to  China.  If  it  be  not  there  already, 
a  change  from  a  more  to  a  less  favourable  sphere  is  not  likely 
to  produce  or  develop  it.  Our  aim,  therefore,  must  be  to  ascer- 
tain as  far  as  possible  whether  it  exists,  and  is  combined  with 
the  needful  grace,  ability,  perseverance  and  tact,  and  is  operative  ( 
here  in  England  in  those  who  desire  to  go  out.  * 

In  the  work  itself  our  aim  wiU  be,  as  heretofore,  to  encourage 
as  much  as  possible  the  gifts  of  the  native  Christians,  and  to 
lead  them  on  to  an  ever-deepening  knowledge  of  and  love  for 
the  Word  of  God,  so  that  as  soon  as  possible  they  may  be  able 
to  stand  alone.  We  shall  seek,  by  God's  help,  to  plant  the 
standard  of  the  cross  in  new  and  unoccupied  regions ;  to  get  as 
near  to  the  people,  and  to  be  as  accessible  to  them  as  possible, 
that  our  lives  may  commend  the  Gospel  to  the  heathen  whom 
we  endeavour  by  word  to  instruct :  and  you  will  seek  grace 
and  wisdom  from  God,  that  it  may  really  be  so.  Pray  that  we 
may  daily  foUow  Him  Who  took  our  nature  that  He  might 
raise  us  to  be  partakers  of  the  Divine  nature.  Pray  that  this 
principle  of  becoming  one  with  the  people,  of  wiUingly  taking 
the  lowest  place,  may  be  deeply  inwrought  in  our  souls  and 
expressed  in  our  deportment. 


CHAPTER  XVI 

THINGS   WILL   SOON   LOOK   UP 

1872-1873.    Aet.  40-41. 

After  an  absence  from  China  of  a  year  and  three  months, 
Mr.  Taylor  was  prepared  to  find  matters  needing  a  good 
deal  of  attention.  It  had  not  been  possible  to  leave  any 
one  in  charge  of  the  whole  work,  none  of  the  members  of 
the  Mission  having  sufficient  experience  to  fit  them  for  such 
a  position.  Mr.  C.  T.  Fishe,  who  had  received  and  forwarded 
remittances  and  given  much  help  in  business  matters,  had 
been  laid  aside  by  a  long,  most  serious  illness,  and  others  too 
had  been  incapacitated  in  a  similar  way.  That  there  would 
be  much  to  see  to  and  put  in  order  on  his  arrival  Mr.  Taylor 
well  knew,  and  the  voyage  had  been  made  the  most  of  for 
preparation  of  spirit,  soul,  and  body.  And  now  the  yellow 
waters  of  the  Yangtze  were  around  them  as  they  lay  at 
anchor,  waiting  for  the  fog  to  clear  before  they  could  pro- 
ceed up  the  river  to  Shanghai.  Embracing  the  opportunity 
for  letters,  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  to  his  mother  that  November 
day  (1872)  : 

I  should  tremble  indeed,  had  we  not  God  to  look  to,  at  the 
prospect  of  being  so  soon  face  to  face  with  the  difficulties  of 
the  work.  Even  as  it  is,  I  can  scarcely  help  feeling  oppressed  : 
"  Lord,  increase  my  faith."  Do  pray  earnestly  for  me.  One 
more  unworthy  there  could  not  be.  And  oh,  how  I  feel  my 
utter  incapacity  to  carry  on  the  work  aright  !  May  the  mighty 
God  of  Jacob  ever  be  my  help.  ...  I  can  form  no  conception 
as  to  what  our  course  may  be,  or  whether  it  will  take  us  N.,  S., 
E.,  or  W.  I  never  felt  so  fully  and  utterly  cast  on  the  Lord : 
but  in  due  time  He  will  lead  us  on 

228 


THINGS  WILL  SOON  LOOK  UP  229 

Met  by  Mr.  Fishe  on  arrival,  the  travellers  learned  that 
although  there  was  cause  in  the  southern  stations  especially 
for  encouragement,  the  need  for  Mr.  Taylor's  presence  was 
even  greater  than  they  had  anticipated.  Duncan  of  Nan- 
king had  been  obliged,  through  failing  health,  to  relinquish 
the  post  he  had  so  bravely  held,  and  even  then  was  on  his 
way  home,  as  it  proved,  to  die.  The  absence  of  the  Judds 
on  furlough,  and  Mr.  Fishe's  illness,  had  left  the  work  in  the 
Yangtze  valley  with  little  supervision,  and  it  was  important 
to  send  some  one  to  take  charge  without  delay.  Transfer- 
ring themselves  and  their  belongings  to  a  native  boat,  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Taylor  set  out  forthwith  for  Hang-chow.  Warm 
was  the  welcome  that  awaited  them  in  the  old  home  from 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  McCarthy  and  the  members  of  the  church, 
many  of  whom  owed  their  spiritual  life,  under  God,  to  the 
one  who  returned  to  them  now  as  a  bride.  Mr.  McCarthy's 
six  years  in  China  quaHfied  him  for  larger  responsibilities, 
and  leaving  Hang-chow  to  Pastor  Wang,  with  help  from 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor,  he  wiUingly  undertook  the  difficult 
work  on  the  Yangtze  (in  An-hwei). 

And  now  commenced  for  the  leader  of  the  Mission  an 
experience  such  as  he  had  never  known  before  to  any- 
thing like  the  same  extent.  Not  only  were  certain  stations 
undermanned  through  the  absence  of  senior  workers,  sick- 
ness and  trial  of  various  sorts  had  told  on  those  who  re- 
mained, while  native  leaders  had  grown  cold,  some  having 
even  lapsed  into  open  sin.  The  tidings  that  came  to  him 
were  to  a  large  extent  discouraging,  and  as  he  began  to 
move  from  place  to  place  Mr.  Taylor  found  plenty  of  cause 
for  humiliation  before  God. 

"  I  do  not  attempt  to  tell  you  how  beset  with  difficulty  the 
work  is  on  every  hand,"  he  wrote  to  his  mother  early  in  the 
New  Year  (1873).  "  But  I  know  you  ever  pray  for  me.  And 
the  difficulties  afford  opportunities  for  learning  God's  faithful- 
ness, which  otherwise  we  should  not  have.  It  gives  me  great 
comfort  to  remember  that  the  work  is  His  ;  that  He  knows 
how  best_  to  carry  it  on,  and  is  infinitely  more  interested  in  it 
than  we  are.  His  Word  shall  not  return  unto  Him  void  :  we 
will  preach  it  then,  and  leave  results  with  Him.  .  .  . 

"  Poor  Yang-chow,  it  is  not  what  it  once  was  !     I  hear  sad 


230         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

accounts  of  some  of  the  members.  But  they  are  to  be  more 
pitied  than  blamed,  for  they  have  not  been  fed  or  watched  over 
as  young  Christians  need.  May  the  Lord  help  me  to  seek  out 
and  bring  back  some  of  the  wanderers." 

In  the  wintry  weather  with  snow  deep  on  the  ground, 
he  set  to  work  at  once,  leaving  Mrs.  Taylor  at  Hang-chow 
for  a  time.  Lonely  indeed  must  it  have  seemed  to  open  the 
empty  house  at  Chin-kiang,  his  once  happy  home,  and 
gather  the  Christians  together  for  little  services  with  no 
companion  but  the  evangehst.  It  was  just  by  getting  into 
close  touch  with  the  native  helpers,  however,  that  he  hoped 
to  cheer  and  strengthen  them,  and  for  this  he  laid  himself 
out  in  centre  after  centre. 

*'  I  have  invited  the  Church  members  and  enquirers  to  dine 
with  me  to-morrow  (Sunday)  after  the  morning  service,"  he 
wrote  to  Mrs.  Taylor,  who  would  so  gladly  have  been  with  him. 
"  I  want  them  all  to  meet  together.  May  the  Lord  give  us  His 
blessing.  Though  things  are  very  sadly,  they  are  not  hopeless ; 
they  mil  soon  look  up,  with  God's  blessing,  if  looked  after."  ^ 

That  was  his  practical,  reasonable  conviction  :  the  work 
would  soon  look  up,  with  God's  blessing,  if  looked  after. 
In  this  confidence  he  went  on,  prayerfully  and  patiently, 
taking  up  himself  the  hardest  places,  and  depending  on  the 
quickening  power  of  the  Spirit  of  God.  Joined  by  Mrs. 
Taylor,  he  spent  three  months  at  Nanking,  giving  much 
time  to  direct  missionary  work. 

*'  Every  night  we  collect  large  numbers  by  means  of  pictures 
and  magic-lantern  slides,"  he  wrote  to  Mr.  Berger  from  this 
centre,  "  and  preach  to  them  Jesus.  .  .  ,  We  had  fully  five 
hundred  in  the  chapel  last  night.  Some  did  not  stay  long, 
others  were  there  nearly  three  hours.  It  was  considerably  after 
10  P.M.  before  we  could  close  the  chapel.  May  the  Lord  bless 
our  stay  here  to  souls.  .  .  .  Every  afternoon,  women  come  to 
see  and  hear." 

This  was  followed  by  a  similar  sojourn  at  Yang-chow 
and  Chin-kiang,  before  he  went  on  up-river  to  the  newer 
stations.^ 

*  A  letter  dated  Chin-kiang,  January  i8,  1873. 

3  It  was  with  great  interest  he  visited  Mr.  Cardwell  at  this  time,  and 
learned  from  his  own  hps  something  of  the  pioneering  work  in  which  he 


THINGS  WILL  SOON  LOOK  UP  231 

"  If  you  are  ever  drinking  at  the  Fountain,"  he  had  written 
to  Miss  Blatchley  as  the  New  Year  opened,  "  what  will  your 
cup  be  running  over  with  ?     Jesus,  Jesus,  Jesus  I  " 

That  it  was  so  in  his  own  case  is  manifest.  Amid  much 
that  was  difficult  and  disappointing,  amid  cold,  discomfort, 
weariness,  it  was  a  full  cup  he  carried  in  this  sense,  and  the 
overflow  was  just  what  was  needed.  It  was  so  real  and 
unmistakable,  the  joy  of  his  heart  in  the  Lord  !  and  it  did 
good  like  a  medicine  wherever  he  went.  Most  people  need 
encouraging,  not  preaching  at  or  an  attitude  of  condemna- 
tion, and  tired  missionaries  no  less  than  Chinese  converts 
responded  to  a  loving  spirit  full  of  joy  in  an  all-sufficient 
Saviour. 

So  the  visits  accomplished  their  object,  and  were  con- 
tinued until  Mr.  Taylor  had  been,  once  at  any  rate,  to  every 
station  and  almost  every  out-station  in  the  Mission.  Not 
content  with  this,  he  sought  out  the  native  workers  in  each 
place,  so  that  the  evangelists,  colporteurs,  teachers,  and 
Biblewomen,  almost  without  exception,  came  under  his 
influence.  It  was,  in  measure,  as  with  the  prince  of  mis- 
sionaries : 

We  were  gentle  among  you,  even  as  a  nurse  cherisheth  her 
children  ;  ^  so  being  affectionately  desirous  of  you,  we  were 
willing  to  have  imparted  unto  you  not  the  Gospel  of  God  only, 
but  also  our  own  souls,  because  ye  were  dear  unto  us.  .  .  .  We 
exhorted  and  comforted  and  charged  every  one  of  you,  as  a 
father  doth  his  children,  that  ye  would  walk  worthy  of  God, 
who  hath  called  you  unto  His  kingdom  and  glory.  .  .  .  For 
what  is  our  hope,  or  joy,  or  crown  of  rejoicing  ?     Are  not  even 

was  engaged  in  the  beautiful  province  of  Kiang-si.  All  round  the  Poyang 
Lake  he  had  travelled,  and  up  the  four  main  rivers  on  which  the  important 
cities  were  found.  In  scores  of  these,  besides  populous  towns  and  villages, 
he  had  preached  the  Gospel,  selling  15,500  Scripture  portions  and  tracts. 
Throughout  the  whole  of  these  journeys,  steadily  pursued  for  a  year  and 
a  half  {1871-72),  he  had  not  met  a  single  missionary  or  native  preacher, 
nor  come  across  a  mission  station  or  a  convert — for  in  the  whole  great 
province  with  its  twenty  millions  he  was  the  only  evangelist  outside 
the  treaty  port  of  Kiu-kiang.  Well  might  Mr.  Taylor  say,  "  The  import- 
ance of  such  journeys  is  very  great,  and  the  need  of  these  districts  truly 
appalling." 

^  Or  as  Weymouth  renders  it :  "  Gentle  as  a  mother,  when  she  tenderly 
nurses  her  own  children." 


232         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

ye,  in  the  presence  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  at  His  coming  ? 
For  ye  are  our  glory  and  joy." 

But  it  was  work  that  cost,  carried  on  under  special 
difficulties,  for  Mr.  Taylor  had  all  his  correspondence  and 
directorial  duties  to  attend  to  at  the  same  time.  It  meant 
constant  travelling,  through  summer  heat  as  well  as  winter 
cold,  and  involved  long  separations  from  Mrs.  Taylor,  who 
could  not  always  accompany  him.  At  times  they  were 
together  in  stations  that  needed  an  extended  visit ;  or  she 
would  stay  on  where  there  was  sickness,  to  give  help  in 
nursing  or  among  the  women.  How  glad  they  v/ere  of  his 
medical  knowledge  in  those  days  !  for  it  gave  opportunity 
for  really  serving  their  fellow-workers  as  well  as  the  native 
Christians.  Needless  to  say  it  added  to  Mr.  Taylor's  bur- 
dens, as  when  he  reached  a  distant  station  on  the  Yangtze 
to  find  eighty-nine  letters  awaiting  him,  and  took  time  to 
send,  the  very  next  day,  a  page  or  more  of  medical  directions 
about  ''A-liang's  baby  " — A-liang  being  a  valued  helper  at 
Chin-kiang.  But  whether  it  meant  longer  letters  or  extra 
journeys,  or  the  strain  of  nursing  and  medical  responsibility, 
he  was  thankful  for  any  and  every  way  in  which  he  could 
help.  Capacity  for  usefulness,  the  power  really  to  serve 
others,  was  the  privilege  he  desired  most. 

And  such  an  outpouring  of  heart  and  life  could  not  but 
tell. 

^    "  The  Lord  is  prospering  us,"  he  was  able  to  write  to  his 

/parents  in  July ;   "  and  the  work  is  steadily  growing,  especially 

/in  that  most  important  department,  native  help.     The  helpers 

;'  themselves  need  much  help,  much  care  and  instruction  ;    but 

;  they  are  becoming  more  efficient  as  well  as  more  numerous, 

j   and  the  future  hope  for  China  lies,  doubtless,  in  them.     I  look 

I    on  foreign  missionaries  as  the  scaffolding  round  a  rising  build- 

I    ing ;   the  sooner  it  can  be  dispensed  with  the  better — or  rather, 

1    the  sooner  it  can  be  transferred  to  other  places,  to  serve  the 

I    same  temporary  purpose. 

"As  to  difficulties  and  sorrows,  their  name  is  legion.  Some 
spring  from  the  nature  of  the  work,  some  from  the  nature  of 
the  workers.  Here  Paul  and  Barnabas  cannot  see  eye  to  eye  ; 
there  Peter  so  acts  as  to  need  public  rebuke  ;  while  elsewhere 
exhortation  is  needed  to  restore  a  wanderer  or  quicken  one 
growing  cold.  .  .  .  But  it  is  the  Lord's  work,  and  we  go  on  from 


THINGS  WILL  SOON  LOOK  UP  233 

day  to  day.     He  is  competent  to  meet  ail  matters  that  may 
arise,  as  and  when  they  crop  up."  ^ 

Sorely  was  this  faith  needed  when,  after  nine  months  in 
the  Yangtze  valley,  Mr.  Taylor  turned  his  attention  to  the 
southern  stations,  in  the  province  of  Che-kiang.  Not  that 
the  work  was  discouraging  ;  on  the  contrary,  there  was 
much  to  cheer  in  some  directions.  But  it  was  there  the 
unexpected  tidings  reached  him  of  the  complete  breakdown 
of  Miss  Blatchley's  health.  Apart  altogether  from  sorrow 
in  the  thought  of  her  removal  was  the  serious  question  as 
to  how  her  place  was  to  be  filled.  Gifted,  devoted,  and  with 
some  experience,  matters  had  tended  more  and  more  to 
come  into  her  hands.  Not  only  was  she  keeping  the  mission- 
house  going,  and  the  weekly  prayer  -  meeting ;  she  was 
editing  and  sending  out  the  Occasional  Paper,  dealing  with 
correspondence  to  a  considerable  extent,  and  caring  for  the 
children  she  had  received  as  a  sacred  charge  from  their 
mother,  the  friend  she  had  supremely  loved.  All  this  made 
it  difi&cult  indeed  to  see  how  her  place  could  be  filled  ;  and 
Mr.  Taylor,  unable  for  the  present  to  return  home,  could  do 
nothing. 

It  seemed  the  last  drop  in  a  full  cup  ;  for  already,  in 
addition  to  the  burdens  upon  him  in  China,  he  was  tried 
and  perplexed  by  the  irregularity  as  well  as  diminution  of 
suppHes  from  home.  It  was  but  natural  that  Mr.  Berger's 
retirement  should  continue  to  be  felt  in  these  and  other 
ways.  The  work  had  grown  up  in  his  hands.  To  the 
friends  and  supporters  of  the  Mission  he  seemed  almost  as 

*  "  I  feel.  Darling,"  Mrs.  Taylor  wrote  in  one  of  their  long  partings 
(Nov.  10,  '73),  "  that  we  must  lean  fully  and  constantly  on  Jesus  if  we  are 
to  get  on  at  all,  and  I  have  been  seeking  to  do  it,  and  in  believing  prayer 
to  bring  our  many  needs  to  Him.  I  have  written  down  the  names  of  our 
foreign  and  native  helpers,  that  I  may  be  able  to  plead  for  them  all  daily, 
\  If  we  would  have  power  for  what  Jesus  calls  us  to  do,  we  must  not  expend 
it  in  bearing  burdens  that  He  would  have  us  cast  on  Him,  must  we  ?  And 
there  is  abundant  supply,  with  Him,  for  all  this  work,  for  all  we  need, 
isn't  there  ?  It's  unbehef  that  saps  our  strength  and  makes  everything 
look  dark  ;  and  yet  He  reigns,  and  we  are  one  with  Him,  and  He  is  making 
everything  happen  for  the  very  best ;  and  so  we  ought  always  to  rejoice 
in  Him,  and  rest,  though  it  is  not  always  easy.  We  must  triumph  with 
God,  and  then  we  shall  succeed  with  men,  and  be  made  blessings  to  them. 
You  know  these  things,  and  can  put  them  much  better  than  I  can,  but 
still  it  does  us  good  to  remind  one  another,  doesn't  it  ?  " 


234         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

much  a  part  of  it  as  Mr.  Taylor  himself.  His  extensive 
business  had  given  him  a  familiarity  with  financial  and 
practical  matters  that  was  invaluable,  and  the  needs  of  the 
workers  in  China  were  upon  his  heart  day  and  night.  This 
could  not  be  so  to  the  same  extent  with  other  friends,  no 
matter  how  interested  and  anxious  to  help.  The  members 
of  the  C.I.M.  Council,  moreover,  were  all  new  to  their 
responsibiHties.  They  did  what  they  could,  with  no  little 
sacrifice  and  devotion,  but  they  had  experience  to  gain. 

Meanwhile  it  was  in  China  that  the  difiiculties  of  the 
situation  were  most  acutely  felt.  Mr.  Taylor  did  what  was 
possible  by  correspondence  ;  and  irregularities  that  could 
not  be  dealt  with  in  that  way  had  just  to  be  taken  to  the 
Lord  in  faith  and  prayer.  Small  though  the  Mission  was 
in  those  days  comparatively,  there  were  fifty  buildings  to 
be  kept  up  and  a  hundred  workers  provided  for,  including 
missionaries'  wives  and  native  helpers.  There  were  all  the 
children  besides,  in  families  and  schools,  making  fully  a 
hundred  and  seventy  mouths  to  feed  daily.  TravelHng 
expenses  were  also  a  serious  item,  with  a  work  extending  to 
five  provinces  and  furloughs  involving  the  expensive  journey 
to  England.  Altogether,  Mr.  Taylor's  estimate  of  a  hundred 
pounds  a  week  as  a  working  average  could  not  be  considered 
extravagant.  Indeed  it  was  only  with  most  careful  planning 
and  economy  that  the  work  could  be  carried  on  vigorously 
upon  that  sum. 

But  there  were  many  weeks  and  even  months  in  which 
Httle  or  nothing  was  forwarded  to  him  for  the  general 
purposes  of  the  Mission.  Funds  were  not  coming  in  plenti- 
fully at  home,  and  many  gifts — such  as  those  of  Mr.  MuUer 
and  Mr.  Berger — were  sent  to  the  workers  direct  or  to  Mr. 
Taylor  for  transmission.  This  left  but  little  for  the  general 
fund,  from  which  home  expenses  had  to  be  met  as  well  as 
the  current  outlay  for  all  but  specially  supported  workers 
in  China. 

"  When  I  arrived,  I  found  it  needful  at  once  to  dispose  of 
the  money  I  had  brought,"  he  wrote  in  his  second  letter  to  Mr. 
Hill,^  "  and  we  are  asking  the  Lord  to  incline  His  stewards  to 

^  Hang-chow,  December  i6,  1872, 


THINGS  WILL  SOON  LOOK  UP  235 

send  you  funds,  for  our  present  supplies  will  soon  be  exhausted. 
What  a  comfort  it  is  to  know  that  though  suppUes  may  be 
exhausted  our  Supplier  never  can  be  so  !  " 

"  The  exchange  keeps  against  us,"  he  mentioned  a  month 
later,  "  and  there  seems  every  hkehhood  of  its  remaining  so  for 
the  present.  We  can  only  accept  things  as  they  are.  *  The 
Lord  will  provide  '  whether  the  exchange  be  high  or  low." 

And  the  Lord  did  provide,  right  through  that  year  of  testing 
(1873) — a  period  that  would  have  been  one  of  "  constant 
and  wearing  anxiety  from  this  cause  alone,  but  for  the 
privilege,  the  precious  resource,"  as  Mr.  Taylor  put  it,  "  of 
casting  the  daily,  hourly  burdens  on  Him  as  they  arose. 
As  it  was.  His  love  made  it  one  of  much  peace." 

'*  May  God  make  this  year  a  year  of  much  blessing  to  you," 
he  wrote  to  a  young  worker  who  had  recently  joined  the  Mission.^ 
"  Do  not  be  afraid  of  His  training  school.  He  both  knows  His 
scholars,  as  to  what  they  are,  and  He  knows  for  what  service 
they  are  to  be  fitted.  A  jeweller  will  take  more  pains  over  a 
gem  than  over  a  piece  of  glass  ;  but  the  one  he  takes  most  pains 
over  is  longest  under  discipline  and  most  severely  dealt  with. 
Once  finished,  however,  the  burnish  never  tarnishes,  the  bright- 
ness never  dims.  So  with  us.  If  we  are  purified,  at  times,  as 
in  a  furnace,  it  is  not  merely  for  earthly  service,  it  is  for  eternity. 
May  you  so  appreciate  the  plans  of  the  Master  that  you  can 
triumphantly  glory  in  the  love  that  subjects  you  to  such  dis- 
cipline, though  the  discipUne  itself  be  sharp  and  to  the  flesh 
hard  to  bear.  ,  .  . 

"  Will  you  pray  often  for  me  ?  do  pray  earnestly.  No  one 
knows  the  many  difficulties  of  my  path  and  the  deep  needs  I 
have  which  the  Lord  alone  can  meet.  Ask,  too,  for  funds  for 
the  many  expenses  of  the  Mission.  I  have  had  none  at  aU,  now, 
for  some  week  or  two  past — but  the  Lord  will  provide.  Our 
profession  of  looking  to  and  of  confidence  in  Him  must  not  be  a 
vain  one,  then  it  will  not  be  put  to  shame." 

And  now,  in  addition  to  this  long-continued  shortness 
of  funds  and  all  the  other  difficulties  of  the  work,  had  come 
the  keen  personal  sorrow  of  Miss  Blatchley's  illness.  Con- 
cern about  his  children,  too,  was  very  real.  Who  was  caring 
for  them,  or  how  they  would  be  provided  for  if  their  almost 
mother  were  taken,  he  did  not  know.     And  before  he  and 

^  Miss  Emmeline  Turner  :   a  letter  dated  Nanking,  March  19,  1873. 


236        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Mrs.  Taylor  could  be  with  them  again,  many  months  must 
elapse. 

"  No  words  can  express  my  sorrow,"  he  wrote  to  his  mother 
— a  few  pencilled  hnes  as  he  travelled  over  the  mountains  to 
Feng-hwa — "  for  what  I  fear  will  be  the  end  of  this  attack  of 
illness.  I  feel  it  selfish  to  sorrow  for  what  will  be  infinite  gain 
to  one  so  ready  for  the  change  :  but,  '  Jesus  wept,*  and  He  is 
unchanged,  and  can  sympathise  still  in  our  grief  and  pain  in 
bereavement.  This  has  been  long  foreseen,  but  I  did  not  expect 
it  so  suddenly.  I  thought  the  disease  was  so  far  quiescent  that 
dear  Ai-mei  ^  might  be  spared  till  we  once  more  visited  England, 
and  that  ours  might  have  been  the  privilege  of  ministering  to 
her  as  long  as  human  ministry  could  avail.  The  Lord  seems  to 
see  it  best  otherwise,  and  we  will  trust  Him.  He  cannot  err, 
nor  fail  to  do  the  kindest,  the  best  thing  every  way — for  her, 
for  us,  for  ours.     He  will  show  His  care  for  His  own  work." 

Reaching  Ningpo  a  few  days  later,  it  was  an  added  pain 
to  learn,  by  cablegram,  that  Miss  Blatchley  was  hoping 
against  hope  for  his  immediate  return,  that  she  might  be 
able  to  resign  her  charges  direct  into  his  hands.  How  he 
longed  to  go  to  her  and  to  the  children  !  The  difficulty  as 
to  funds  alone  would  have  made  it  impossible,  however,  for 
it  was  only  by  being  on  the  spot  he  could  divide  the  small 
supplies  coming  to  him  in  such  a  way  as  to  meet  the  most 
urgent  needs  as  they  arose.  It  meant  much  that  he  could 
say  in  the  very  next  letter  to  his  mother  (December  2,  '73)  : 

The  words,  "  God,  my  exceeding  joy,"  have  been  constantly 
in  my  heart  of  late.  He  is  making  me  in  this  deep  sorrow  to 
rejoice  in  Himself  "  with  joy  unspeakable  and  full  of  glory"; 
making  me  trust  Him,  rest  in  Him,  zxidfeel  an  "  Even  so,  Father  " 
to  it  all. 

To  a  fellow-worker  in  special  trial  he  had  written  some 
months  previously  : 

The  one  thing  we  need  is  to  know  God  better.  Not  in  our- 
selves, not  in  our  prospects,  not  in  heaven  itself  are  we  to  rejoice, 
but  in  the  Lord.  If  we  know  Him,  then  we  rejoice  in  what  He 
gives  not  because  we  Hke  it,  if  pleasing,  not  because  we  think 
it  will  work  good,  if  trying,  but  because  it  i^  His^^it^His  order- 

1  "  Beloved  Younger-sister,"  the  Chinese  equivalent  of  Emily,  Miss 
Blatchley's  Christian  name. 


THINGS  WILL  SOON  LOOK  UP  237 

ing ;  and_tiie.-like  in  what  He  withholds  or  takes  away.  Oh, 
to  know  Him  !  Well  might  Paul,  who  had  caught  a  gUmpse  of 
His  glory,  count  "  all  things  "  as  dung  and  dross  compared  with 
this  most  precious  knowledge  1  This  makes  the  weak  strong, 
the  poor  rich,  the  empty  full ;  this  makes  suffering  happiness, 
and  turns  tears  into  diamonds  like  the  sunshine  turns  dew  into 
pearls.     This  makes  us  fearless,  invincible. 

If  we  know  God,  then  when  full  of  joy  v/e  can  thank  our 
Heavenly  Father,  the  Giver  of  all ;  when  we  feel  no  joy  we  can 
thank  Him  for  that,  for  it  is  our  Father's  ordering.  When  we 
are  with  those  we  love,  we  can  thank  Him  ;  when  we  yearn  for 
those  we  love,  we  can  thank  Him.  The  hunger  that  helps  us 
to  feel  our  need,  the  thirst  that  helps  us  to  drink,  we  can  thank 
Him  for  ;  for  what  are  food  or  drink  without  appetite,  or  Christ 
to  a  self-contented,  circumstance-contented  soul  ?  Oh  to  know 
Him !  How  good,  how  great,  how  glorious — our  God  and 
Father,  our  God  and  Saviour,  our  God  and  Sanctifier — to  know 
Him! 

Pray  on  and  labour  on.  Don't  be  afraid  of  the  toil ;  don't 
be  afraid  of  the  cross  :   they  will  pay  well. 

And  now  the  year  that  had  seen  so  much  of  trial  in  his 
own  experience  was  to  end  in  thanksgiving.  "  Don't  be 
afraid  of  the  toil  ;  don't  be  afraid  of  the  cross,"  he  had 
written  :  "  they  will  pay  well  "  ;  and  pay  they  did,  in  just 
the  way  he  would  most  have  desired. 

Upon  reaching  Shao-hing  early  in  December,  he  found 
Mr.  Stevenson  away  visiting  his  out-stations.  In  a  moun- 
tainous district  seventy  or  eighty  miles  to  the  south,  he  was 
witnessing  a  remarkable  work  of  the  Spirit,  and  Mr.  Taylor 
was  only  too  glad  to  join  him.  Up  the  beautiful  river  he 
went,  recalling  the  first  time  he  had  come  over  that  way  on 
a  lonely  journey  from  Tai-chow.  Crossing  the  watershed,  he 
had  found  just  over  on  the  Shao-hing  side  a  populous  district 
which  interested  him  deeply.  First  one  city  and  then 
another  was  visited,  surrounded  by  numerous  towns  and 
villages  accessible  from  this  mountain  stream,  in  none  of 
which  the  gospel  of  the  grace  of  God  was  being  made  known. 
From  the  steps  of  the  principal  temple  in  Cheng-hsien,  he 
had  looked  down  on  the  grey-roofed  city  at  his  feet,  and  had 
counted  thirty  or  more  towns  and  villages  at  no  great  dis- 
tance.    With  a  straitened  heart  he  had  reaUsed  something 


238         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

of  what  it  meant  that  parents  and  children,  old  and  young, 
in  all  those  homes,  should  be  living,  dying,  without  God. 
To  the  crowd  that  gathered  round  him  he  had  preached  long 
and  earnestly ;  and  when  from  sheer  weariness  he  could 
make  himself  heard  no  longer,  he  had  gone  on  farther  up 
the  hill  to  pour  out  his  heart  in  prayer  to  God. 

And  now  those  prayers  were  being  answered.  Often 
had  he  thought  of  them,  when  following  Mr.  Stevenson's 
early  efforts  to  settle  an  evangehst  in  the  district.  For 
some  time  they  had  met  with  nothing  but  opposition  and 
discouragement,  but  now  a  very  different  day  had  dawned, 
largely  through  the  conversion  of  one  remarkable  man  in 
Cheng-hsien. 

A  leading  Confucianist,  proud  of  his  learning  and  position, 
this  Mr.  Njdng  would  have  been  the  last  to  have  anything 
to  do  with  the  foreigner  who  came  from  time  to  time  to 
preach  strange  doctrines  in  his  city.  But  he  was  interested 
in  Western  science,  and  happened  to  have  some  translation 
of  a  work  upon  the  subject  which  he  did  not  fully  under- 
stand. Taking  advantage,  therefore,  of  one  of  Mr.  Steven- 
son's visits,  he  strolled  along  to  the  mission-house,  and 
entered  into  conversation  with  the  evangelist.  Soon  he 
was  introduced  to  the  young  missionary,  who  talked  with 
him  of  the  matters  about  which  he  wished  to  inquire.  Then 
turning  to  the  New  Testament  lying  on  the  table,  Mr. 
Stevenson  quite  naturally  went  on  : 

"  Have  you  also  in  your  Hbrary  the  books  of  the  Christian 
reHgion  ?  " 

"  I  have,"  rephed  the  scholar ;  *'  but,  to  be  quite 
candid,  I  do  not  find  them  as  interesting  as  your  works  on 
science." 

This  led  to  a  conversation  in  v/hich  it  appeared  that  Mr. 
Nying  was  sceptical  as  to  the  existence  of  God  or  the  soul, 
and  considered  prayer  manifestly  absurd. 

"  If  there  were  a  Supreme  Being,"  he  urged,  "  He  would 
be  far  too  great  and  distant  to  take  any  notice  of  our  little 
affairs." 

Patiently  the  missionary  sought  to  bring  him  to  a  better 
point  of  view,  but  without  success  ;   and  at  length,  seeing 


THINGS  WILL  SOON  LOOK  UP  239 

that  argument  was  useless,  he  availed  himself  of  a  simple 
illustration. 

" '  Water  and  fire  are  opposing  elements/  we  say, 
*  and  can  never  combine.  Water  extinguishes  fire,  and  fire 
evaporates  water.*  Very  well,  so  much  for  our  argument ! 
But  while  we  are  talking,  my  servant  has  put  on  the  kettle, 
and  see,  here  is  water  raised  to  the  boiling  point,  ready  to 
make  you  a  cup  of  tea. 

*'  You  say  there  is  no  God,  and  that  even  if  there  were 
He  would  never  condescend  to  listen  to  our  prayers  :  but 
beheve  me,  if  you  go  home  to-night  and  take  up  that  New 
Testament,  and  before  opening  it  humbly  and  earnestly  ask 
the  God  of  Heaven  to  give  you  His  Holy  Spirit  that  you 
may  understand  it  aright,  that  book  will  be  a  new  book  to  you 
and  will  soon  mean  more  than  any  other  book  in  the  world. 
Put  it  to  the  proof  ;  and  whether  you  pray  for  yourself  or 
not,  I  will  pray  for  you." 

More  impressed  than  he  cared  to  show,  the  scholar  went 
home. 

"  Well,  here  is  a  strange  thing,"  he  thought.  "Absurd 
as  it  seems,  the  foreigner  was  in  earnest ;  and  so  concerned 
is  he  about  a  man  he  never  saw  or  heard  of  till  to-day  that 
he  will  pray  for  me — and  I  do  not  pray  for  myself." 

That  night  when  alone,  Mr.  Nying  took  up  the  book  in 
question  with  a  feeling  almost  of  amusement.  How  could 
any  intelHgent  person  imagine  that  a  few  words  addressed 
to  some  unknown  Being,  who  might  or  might  not  exist, 
would  turn  a  dull  book  into  an  interesting  one,  or  make  any 
change  in  one's  outlook  upon  life  ?  Yet,  incredulous  as  he 
was,  he  somehow  wanted  to  put  it  to  the  test. 

"  O  God,  if  there  be  a  God,"  he  found  himself  sa5dng, 
**  save  my  soul,  if  I  have  a  soul.  Give  me  Thy  Holy  Spirit, 
and  help  me  to  understand  this  book." 

Once  and  again  as  evening  wore  on,  Mrs.  Nying  looked 
into  the  room,  to  find  her  husband  engrossed  in  study.  At 
length  she  ventured  to  remonstrate,  reminding  him  of  the 
lateness  of  the  hour. 

*'  Do  not  wait  for  me,"  was  his  reply  ;  "  I  have  important 
matters  in  hand."    And  he  went  on  reading. 


240        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

The  book  had  become  a  new  book  indeed,  and  hour  after 
hour  as  he  turned  the  pages  a  new  spirit  was  taking  pos- 
session of  him.  But  for  days  he  dared  not  confess  the 
change  to  those  nearest  to  him.  His  wife  came  of  an  aristo- 
cratic family,  and  he  thought  much  of  her  and  of  their 
children.  He  knew  that  as  a  Christian  he  would  be  despised 
if  not  cast  out  by  their  relatives,  and  that  rather  than  endure 
such  humihation  she  would  probably  leave  him.  Yet  his 
heart  burned  within  him.  The  wonderful  Saviour  of  whom 
he  read  was  becoming  real  to  him  as  he  could  never  have 
believed  it  possible.  The  words  He  had  spoken  long  ago 
were  living  and  powerful  still.  Njdng  felt  that  they  searched 
him  through  and  through,  and  brought  not  only  a  new 
consciousness  of  sin,  but  peace  and  heahng.  And  oh,  the 
joy  that  began  to  well  up  within  him  ! 

**  When  the  children  are  in  bed,"  he  said  to  his  wife  at 
length,  "  there  is  something  I  should  like  to  tell  you." 

It  was  a  desperate  resort,  for  he  had  no  idea  what  to  say 
or  how  to  begin.  But  it  committed  him  to  some  sort  of 
confession  of  his  faith  in  Christ,  though  he  trembled  to  think 
how  she  would  receive  it. 

Silently  they  sat  on  either  side  of  the  table  when  evening 
came,  and  he  could  not  open  the  subject. 

"  Is  there  not  something  you  wanted  to  say  to  me  ?  " 
she  inquired. 

Then  it  all  came  out,  he  knew  not  how  !  and  she  listened 
with  growing  wonder.  The  true  and  living  God — ^not  any 
of  the  idols  in  the  temples  ;  a  way  by  which  sins  might  be 
forgiven  ;  a  Saviour  Who  could  fill  the  heart  with  joy  and 
peace  :   to  his  surprise  she  seemed  to  be  following  eagerly. 

"  Have  you  really  found  Him  ?  "  she  broke  in  before 
long.  "  Oh,  I  have  so  wanted  to  know  !  For  there  must 
be  a  living  God.  Who  else  could  have  heard  my  cry  for 
help,  long,  long  ago  ?  " 

It  was  when  the  Tai-ping  rebels  had  come  to  the  city 
in  which  her  parents  lived,  burning  and  pillaging  everything. 
Their  home  had  been  ravaged,  Kke  the  rest.  Many  people 
were  killed  ;  many  committed  suicide  ;  and  she,  helpless 
and  terror-stricken,  had  crept  into  a  wardrobe  to  hide. 


THINGS  WILL  SOON  LOOK  UP  241 

She  heard  the  soldiers  ransacking  the  house,  and  coming 
nearer  and  nearer. 

"  Oh,  Heavenly  Grandfather,"  she  cried  in  her  heart, 
*'  save  me  !  " 

None  but  the  true  and  living  God  could  have  answered 
that  prayer.  The  idols  in  the  temples  were  helpless  to 
protect  themselves,  even,  from  the  terrible  marauders.  But 
though  they  had  been  in  the  very  room,  they  had  passed 
over  the  hiding-place  where  she  was  crouching,  scarcel)' 
daring  to  breathe.  And,  ever  since,  she  had  so  longed  to 
know  about  Him — the  wonderful  God  Who  had  saved  her. 

With  what  joy  and  thankfulness  her  husband  assured 
her  not  only  that  there  was  such  a  Being — supremely  great 
and  good — but  that  He  had  spoken,  had  made  Himself 
known  to  men  !  Did  ever  the  story  of  Redeeming  Love 
seem  more  precious,  or  heart  rejoice  to  tell  it  forth  more 
than  that  of  the  once  proud  Confucianist  as  he  began  to 
preach  Christ  in  his  home  and  city  ?  So  fervent  was  his 
spirit  that  it  disconcerted  those  who  thought  to  laugh  him 
out  of  his  new-fangled  notions. 

"  You  must  control  that  disciple  of  yours,"  said  the  local 
Mandarin  to  the  Chancellor  of  the  University.  "He  is 
disgracing  us  by  actually  preaching  the  foreign  doctrine  on 
the  streets.  When  I  remonstrated  with  him  he  even  began 
to  preach  to  me  !  and  said  he  was  so  full  of  the  *  Good  News,' 
as  he  calls  it,  that  he  could  not  keep  it  in." 

"  I  will  soon  bring  him  to  reason,"  was  the  confident 
reply.     **  Leave  him  to  me  !  " 

But  the  Chancellor  fared  no  better  than  the  Mayor,  and 
was  fain  to  beat  a  hasty  retreat.  Loving  his  Bible,  and 
helped  by  visits  to  Shao-hing,  Mr.  Nying  soon  became  a 
preacher  of  much  power.  Among  the  first  converts  he  had 
the  joy  of  winning  was  a  man  who  had  been  the  terror  of 
the  neighbourhood.  Nothing  was  too  bad  or  too  heartless 
for  Lao  Kuen  !  What  power  had  turned  the  lion  into  a 
lamb  the  villagers  could  not  tell,  but  the  old  father  whom 
he  had  formerly  treated  with  cruelty  and  neglect  could 
testify  to  the  reality  of  the  change,  and,  like  his  son,  was  soon 
a  believer  in  Jesus. 

R 


242         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

In  ever-widening  circles  the  blessing  spread,  till  it  reached 
the  keeper  of  a  gambling-den  and  house  of  ill-fame  in  a 
neighbouring  town.  His  conversion  was  even  more  notable 
than  the  others,  for  it  banished  the  gaming-tables,  emptied 
his  house  of  bad  characters,  and  turned  his  best  and  largest 
room  into  a  chapel.  It  was  his  own  idea  to  have  it  cleaned 
and  whitewashed  before  offering  it,  free  of  cost,  as  a  place  of 
worship. 

These  and  others  formed  the  group  of  converts  of  whose 
baptism  Mr.  Stevenson  had  written.  Ten  altogether  had 
followed  Mr.  N5dng  in  confessing  Christ,  and  there  were  not 
a  few  interested  enquirers.  Upon  Mr.  Taylor's  arrival  in 
the  city  they  began  to  drop  in,  until  he  found  himself 
surrounded  by  this  bright,  earnest  company  of  believers. 
And  oh  the  rejoicing,  the  greetings  and  conversations,  the 
singing  and  prayers  !  It  was  a  little  bit  of  heaven  below— 
a  precious  foretaste  of  the  hundredfold  reward. 

An  afternoon  meeting  was  held  in  Mr.  N5dng's  house,  at 
which  his  wife  and  daughter  were  present,  and  in  the  evening 
the  Christians  met  again  in  the  chapel. 

"  I  could  have  wept  for  joy,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote,  "  to  hear 
what  grace  had  done  for  one  and  another  of  those  present ;  and 
most  of  them  could  tell  of  some  relative  or  friend  of  whose  con- 
version they  had  good  hope.  ...  I  have  never  seen  anything 
like  it  in  China." 


CHAPTER  XVII 

NOT  DISOBEDIENT  UNTO  THE   HEAVENLY  VISION 

1873-1874.    Aet.  41-43. 

It  would  be  little  cause  for  wonder  if,  amid  joy  and  en- 
couragement such  as  we  have  just  recorded,  Mr.  Taylor's 
heart  had  gone  out  in  quickened  longing  after  the  multitudes 
yet  unreached ;  but  the  really  significant  thing  is  that  he 
had  never  lost  the  vision.  Amid  all  that  had  gone  before 
of  trial  and  disappointment,  amid  all  that  was  yet  awaiting 
him  of  counter-attack  on  the  part  of  the  enemy  and  searching 
tests  of  faith,  the  vision  never  left  him.  It  did  but  become, 
if  anything,  more  commanding.  To  one  of  the  Secretaries 
of  the  Mission  he  had  written  soon  after  landing  : 

I  do  so  hope  to  see  some  of  the  destitute  provinces  evangelised 
shortly.  I  long  for  it  by  day  and  pray  for  it  by  night.  Can  He 
care  less  ? 

And  to  Miss  Blatchley  (January  i,  1873)  : 

I  want  you  to  pray  daily  that  God  will  direct  us  as  to  which 
provinces  we  should  attempt,  and  how.  We  have  the  almighty 
God  with  us  ;  the  all-wise  Counsellor  to  guide  ;  the  indwelling 
Spirit  to  give  eihcacy  to  the  preached  Word.  Ask  for  me  more 
simple  trust  in  Him,  and  boldness  to  attempt  great  things.  .  .  . 
Try  to  get  friends  to  promise  and  seriously  endeavour  to  pray 
daily  about  the  opening  up  of  new  provinces  to  the  Gospel. 
Christ  must  speedily  be  proclaimed  in  them  :  how  and  by  whom 
we  must  ask  Him. 

Subsequent  letters  breathe  the  same  spirit,  though  they 
necessarily  touch  upon  financial  difficulties  and  local 
problems. 

243 


244         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Pray  hard  ;    trust_undoubtingly  ;    expect,  great, Jhijlgs -from  _ 
God.     If  we  Rave  a  few  men  of  the  right  stamp  we  shall  soon 
see  more  than  one  unoccupied  province  entered. 

But  the  long  year  wore  on,  and  little  in  the  way  of  men  or 
means  was  forthcoming. 

Under  these  circumstances  it  was  but  natural  that  Mr. 
Taylor  should  value  more  than  ever  the  co-operation  of 
Chinese  fellow- workers.  He  was  giving  himself,  as  we  have 
seen,  to  encouraging  the  native  leaders,  and  was  full  of 
plans  for  developing  and  using  them  to  the  utmost. 

"  I  am  aiming  at  such  organisation  of  our  forces  as  will 
enable  us  to  do  more  work  with  fewer  foreign  missionaries,"  he 
wrote  to  his  parents  in  April.  "  I  hope  I  may  be  able,  ere  the 
year  closes,  to  commence  a  college  for  the  more  thorough  train- 
ing of  our  native  helpers.  Long  desired,  there  seems  more  prob- 
ability of  our  attaining  this  than  heretofore." 

To  place  two  native  helpers  in  each  governing  city  of  a 
district,  with  colporteurs  in  centres  of  less  importance,  all 
under  the  supervision  of  an  experienced  missionary,  was  the 
plan  kept  steadily  in  view,  beginning  with  the  capitals  of 
provinces  and  departments.  Nothing  if  not  orderly,  his 
mind  worked  along  these  hnes,  pending  special  indications  of 
divine  guidance.  These  being  given,  he  was  ready  at  any 
time  to  throw  his  best  men  into  positions  of  seemingly  less 
strategic  value,  if  only  it  were  evident  that  the  Spirit  of  God 
was  at  work.  Apart  from  such  indications,  the  above  plan 
was  adhered  to  as  closely  as  possible.  It  was  essential, 
therefore,  to  develop  the  Chinese  workers,  as  well  as  obtain 

/  missionaries  of  the  right  kind.  Men  of  faith,  v^dth  a  personal 
knowledge  of  God  as  the  Hearer  and  Answerer  of  prayer ; 
men  of  stamina  to  rough  it,  and  to  live  as  he  did  in  closest 

^  contact  with  the  people,  were  the  missionary  helpers  he 
longed  and  prayed  for. 

"  We  are  going  on  into  the  interior,"  he  wrote  to  a  member 
of  the  Council  somewhat  later.  "  There  is  great  difficulty  in 
conveying  much  luggage,  and  the  sight  of  it,  in  many  places, 
would  ensure  robbery.  If  any  one  is  not  prepared  to  rough  it, 
he  had  better  stay  at  home  at  once." 

And  to  another:    "  The  only  persons  wanted  here  are  those 


NOT  DISOBEDIENT  TO  THE  HEAVENLY  VISION  245 

who  wiU  rejoice  to  work — really  to  labour,  not  to  dream  their 
lives  away ;  to  deny  themselves  ;  to  suffer  in  order  to  save. 
Of  such  men  and  women  there  is  room  for  any  number,  and  God 
will  support  any  number :  they  are  His  jewels,  and  Ee  values 
and  cares  for  them. 

Hastening  to  Shanghai  to  meet  Mr.  Judd  v^dth  reinforce- 
ments, Mr.  Taylor's  mind  was  full  of  these  things,  and  he 
was  not  altogether  sorry  for  the  lack  of  a  receiving  home, 
though  it  involved  some  inconveniences.  It  was  his  purpose 
to  secure  such  a  home  on  this  visit,  for  the  Mission  was 
growing  so  large  as  to  need  a  business  centre  at  the  coast. ^ 
But  in  the  meanwhile  he  put  up  at  a  native  inn,  glad  of  the 
opportunity  of  seeing  in  a  natural  way  what  the  young  men 
who  accompanied  Mr.  Judd  were  made  of. 

Early  that  November  morning  the  new  arrivals  had  set 
out  to  enquire  for  Mr.  Taylor.  From  friends  of  Mr.  Judd's 
they  learned  that  the  leader  of  the  Mission  was  in  Shanghai, 
and  had  probably  gone  down  to  the  steamer  to  meet  them. 
They  turned  back  therefore,  and  on  the  way  Mr.  Judd 
exclaimed,  "  There  is  Mr.  Taylor  !  " 

"  We  looked,"  wrote  one  of  his  companions,  *'  but  could  only 
see  a  Chinaman  on  a  wheelbarrow.  The  barrow  stopped  and 
the  figure  advanced  toward  us.  It  was  a  good  thing  that  there 
was  some  one  to  do  the  introducing,  for  we  should  never  have 
recognised  Mr.  Taylor.  The  weather  was  cold,  and  he  had  on 
a  wadded  gown  and  jacket.  Over  his  head  he  wore  a  wind-hood 
with  side  pieces  which  fitted  close  to  the  face,  leaving  nothing 
but  a  medaUion-shaped  opening  for  nose,  eyes  and  mouth.  In 
his  hand  he  grasped  a  huge  Chinese  umbrella,  which  he  carried 
in  true  native  style,  handle  foremost.  In  his  wadded  clothes  he 
looked  almost  as  broad  as  he  was  long,  and  to  our  foreign  eyes 
was  the  oddest  figure  we  had  ever  seen.  He  said  he  had  made 
arrangements  for  the  ladies  and  Mr.  Judd  to  stay  with  friends 
in  the  French  Settlement,  and,  turning  to  Henry  Taylor  and 
myself,  added : 

1  Some  distance  down  Broadway  in  the  American  Settle-ment,  five 
little  native  shops  were  taken,  almost  opposite  the  old  Sailors'  Home. 
The  open  fronts  were  built  up,  and  the  whole  connected  with  a  long  up- 
stairs passage.  Such  was  the  first  C.I.M.  Home  in  Shanghai,  arranged 
for  by  Mr.  Taylor  in  November,  and  occupied  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Edward 
Fishe  before  the  close  of  1873, 


246         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

"  '  After  we  have  been  to  the  vessel,  perhaps  you  will  accom- 
pany me  to  my  hotel/  " 

Little  realising  what  was  in  store  for  them,  the  young 
men  cheerfully  agreed. 

"  It  may  be  as  well  to  say,  for  the  sake  of  those  who  do  not 
know  Shanghai,"  Mr.  Bailer  continued,  "  that  it  is  divided  into 
three  Settlements,  all  situated  on  the  banks  of  the  Woo-sung 
River,  and  separated  from  each  other  by  creeks.  The  English 
Settlement  Hes  in  the  centre,  between  the  Soo-chow  Creek  and 
a  muddy  ditch  called  the  Yang-king-pang.  On  the  north  is 
the  American  Settlement,  and  on  the  south  the  French.  Running 
parallel  with  the  river  is  a  broad  boulevard  called  The  Bund, 
edged  by  a  strip  of  well-kept  lawn  (and  beautiful  Public  Gardens 
now).  Following  Mr.  Taylor  along  The  Bund,  we  traversed  its 
entire  length,  then  crossed  a  bridge  into  the  French  Settlement, 
and  so  on  and  on  to  the  point  where  it  tails  off  into  the  suburbs 
of  the  Chinese  city.  Lines  of  junks  lie  along  the  river  here, 
and  trade  and  bustle  are  the  order  of  the  day.  Here,  too,  are 
heaps  of  malodorous  refuse,  fish,  vegetables,  muck  from  the 
streets,  filth  of  all  sorts,  while  stenches,  massive  and  unreUeved, 
assail  the  fastidious  foreigner.  .  .  . 

"  Turning  up  a  side  street  at  right  angles  to  The  Bund,  Mr. 
Taylor  threaded  his  way  among  the  crowds  till  he  stopped  at 
the  door  of  a  native  post  office.  Passing  through  the  front  part 
of  the  of&ce,  he  led  the  way  to  a  smgdl  door  secured  by  a  Chinese 
lock.  This  he  opened  and  invited  us  to.  follow  him  up  the 
stair.  It  was  pitch  dark  and  very  narrow,  but  we  stumbled  up 
till  we  came  to  a  door  which  he  entered.  We  followed  him,  and 
found  ourselves  in  the  '  hotel.'  It  consisted  of  a  room  about 
twelve  feet  square,  innocent  of  any  adornment,  and  containing 
a  square  table,  a  small  skin-covered  box,  and  a  native  food- 
basket.  Along  one  side  was  a  raised  dais,  on  which,  if  I  remember 
aright,  was  spread  a  native  coverlet.  A  window  opened  out 
on  to  the  street,  but  it  had  paper  of  a  grimy  hue  instead  of  glass, 
and  did  not  count  for  much  in  the  way  of  illumination. 

"  Mr.  Taylor  very  courteously  asked  us  to  be  seated,  and 
after  making  enquiries  as  to  our  voyage,  produced  a  Bible.  He 
read  the  17th  chapter  of  the  Gospel  by  John,  and  asked  what  we 
thought  was  the  meaning  of  the  words,  '  That  the  love  where- 
with Thou  hast  loved  me  may  be  in  them,  and  I  in  them.'  I  do 
not  remember  what  we  said,  but  I  was  distinctly  impressed  with 
the  fact  that  he  asked  us.  .  .  .  Reading  over,  we  knelt  down 
and  had  prayer  together,  when  he  commended  us  to  the  Lord 
who  had  brought  us  to  China." 


NOT  DISOBEDIENT  TO  THE  HEAVENLY  VISION  247 

So  far  so  good  :  but  Mr,  Taylor  was  beginning  to  feel 
confidence  in  the  mettle  of  these  young  missionaries,  and 
was  minded  to  introduce  them  himself,  as  far  as  possible, 
to  things  Chinese.  Rather  than  return  to  the  Settlement 
for  breakfast,  therefore,  he  decided  to  take  them  to  a  native 
restaurant.  They  had  been  out  since  5  a.m.,  and  it  was  now 
almost  nine,  so  that  they  were  equal  to  the  occasion  as  far 
as  appetite  was  concerned.  But  first  he  enquired  whether 
they  would  care  to  wash  their  hands. 

We  replied  in  the  afiirmative  ;  but  as  there  was  no  trace 
either  of  washstand,  soap,  towel  or  basin,  we  wondered  how  the 
ablutions  were  to  be  performed.  Mr.  Taylor  went  to  the  door 
and  called  out  something  in  Chinese,  whereupon  a  man  appeared 
who  was,  we  understood,  his  servant.  He  went  to  the  basket 
in  the  comer  and  fished  out  of  its  depths  a  wooden  basin  and 
what  looked  Hke  a  pocket-handkerchief.  Leaving  the  latter 
on  the  table  he  descended  to  the  street,  and  going  to  a  hot-water 
shop  bought  enough  hot  water  to  fill  the  basin.  On  his  return 
he  placed  it  on  the  table,  and,  taking  the  rag,  which  was,  we 
noticed,  woven  with  a  large  mesh,  he  dipped  it  in  the  water, 
and  wringing  it  out  handed  it  to  Mr.  Taylor.  We  watched  him 
use  it  with  considerable  interest.  By  the  time  he  had  gone  over 
the  area  that  needed  cleansing,  the  cloth  was  nearly  cold.  This 
meant  another  dip,  another  and  drier  squeeze,  and  a  renewed 
appHcation  to  face  and  hands,  this  time  more  in  the  way  of 
polishing  than  cleansing.  The  mystery  was  solved.  Here  was 
plain  li\dng  and  high  thinking ;  here  was  muUum  in  parvo  ; 
here  was  economy  and  cleanhness  combined.  Sponge,  soap, 
towel — all  were  included  in  the  magic  cloth  I  We  followed  suit, 
and  found  the  operation  very  refreshing,  partly  from  its  novelty 
and  partly  from  its  effects.  And  no  compunction  of  conscience 
that  we  were  running  up  a  hotel  bill  by  Uving  in  luxury,  troubled 
us.  .  .  .  We  began  to  realise  that  we  were  in  a  land  where 
money  could  be  made  to  go  a  long  way. 

"  Now,"  said  Mr.  Taylor,  "  let  us  go  and  have  breakfast." 
Nothing  loath  we  sallied  forth,  Mr.  Taylor  leading  the  way, 
and  this  time  dived  into  the  recesses  of  an  adjoining  street,  far 
from  the  foreign  quarter.  After  enquiry  in  one  or  two  native 
cook-shops  as  to  whether  they  had  a  certain  kind  of  vegetable, 
Mr.  Taylor  finally  led  us  into  one  and  invited  us  to  be  seated. 
Four  narrow  forms  were  placed  around  a  table.  The  cooking 
was  being  carried  on  in  the  front  part  of  the  shop,  while  customers 
sat  at  a  number  of  square  tables  in  the  back.     Our  table  had 


248         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

once  been  new,  and  probably  had  once  been  clean,  but  it  must 
have  been  many  years  before  we  were  bom.  However,  what 
it  lacked  in  purity  it  made  up  in  polish.  ...  A  pair  of  chop- 
sticks was  brought  and  placed  before  each  of  us,  after  having 
been  carefully  wiped  on  the  shady  cloth  which  dangled  over 
the  shoulder  of  our  attendant.  Happily  for  me  and  my  com- 
panion, we  had  acquired  some  skill  in  the  use  of  these  implements 
while  crossing  the  Pacific.  We  had  often  fraternised  with  the 
Chinese  passengers,  imitating  them  in  the  use  of  chop-sticks 
till  we  could  take  up  a  bean  without  dropping  it.  But  for  this, 
the  fable  of  the  Stork  and  the  Fox  would  have  had  an  illustra- 
tion in  our  case  that  morning. 

At  last  the  supreme  moment  arrived,  and  the  waiter  brought 
in  four  basins  of  piled-up  rice  and  placed  them  before  us.  This 
was  followed  by  several  basins  of  hot  vegetables,  and  a  large 
basin  of  chunks  of  fat  pork,  the  piece  de  resistance  of  the  meal. 
Mr.  Taylor's  servant,  true  to  the  courteous  instincts  of  his  race, 
fearing  that  in  our  inexperience  we  should  not  make  a  good  meal, 
chose  out  the  fattest  and  largest  lumps  and  laid  them  in  triumph, 
with  a  winsome  smile,  intended  to  hearten  us  to  the  task,  on  the 
top  of  our  basins.  It  had  some  interest  for  us  the  first  few 
times  ;  but  after  steadily  going  through  four  or  five  pieces  in 
succession,  it  began  to  pall,  and  we  had  to  appeal  to  Mr.  Taylor 
to  ask  him  to  desist.  He,  good  man,  took  our  feeble  protest 
against  any  more  chunks  to  be  the  natural  outcome  of  a  pohte 
training,  and  was  rather  grieved  when  we  dechned  any  longer 
to  feed  upon  the  fat  of  the  land. 

Such  was  our  first  meeting  with  Mr.  Taylor  in  China,  such  our 
reception,  such  our  first  toilet  and  meal.  Things  have  greatly 
altered  since  then,  but  I  would  gladly  forgo  all  the  improvements, 
if  I  could  have  the  experiences  of  that  morning  over  again.  Our 
leader  and  director  showed  us  how  to  do  it  by  his  own  example, 
and  stamped  us  at  once,  in  all  the  freshness  of  our  early  zeal, 
with  his  own  stamp.  Hence  we  took  to  Chinese  dress,  Chinese 
food,  Chinese  ways  as  a  duck  to  water.  Personally,  I  can  never 
be  thankful  enough  for  that  experience.  I  have  been  in  many 
dirtier  inns  since  then,  in  many  parts  of  China,  and  have  had 
far  rougher  accommodation  than  that  of  Mr.  Taylor's  "  hotel," 
but  the  remembrance  of  his  example  has  made  things  easy  and 
silenced  murmuring. 

Leaving  the  young  men  at  Nanking  to  their  studies,  in 
charge  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Judd,  Mr.  Taylor  hastened  back  to 
the  patients  he  was  caring  for  and  the  stations  he  was 
visiting  in  Che-kiang.     The  twelve  millions  of  that  province. 


NOT  DISOBEDIENT  TO  THE  HEAVENLY  VISION  249 

small  though  it  was  among  the  provinces  of  China,  lay 
heavily  on  his  heart.  Far  from  overlooking,  in  his  growing 
concern  for  the  interior,  needs  more  immediately  around 
him  near  the  coast,  he  was  stirred  with  sorrow  and  shame 
over  the  great,  waiting  fields  so  easily  accessible,  that  yet 
had  no  labourers.  Writing  to  Mr.  Hill  from  one  of  the 
southern  stations  in  January  (1874)  he  said  : 

The  work  is  now  greatly  extending,  and  I  hope  will  yet  do 
so.  .  .  .  If  the  Lord  spare  me,  and  permit  me  to  labour  here 
a  year  or  two  more,  I  trust  there  will  be  no  county  left  in  this 
province  in  which  we  have  not  preached  Christ,  either  by  located 
or  itinerant  labours.  At  present  there  are  many  such.  ...  Of 
the  sixty-three  Hsien  cities  in  this  province  (each  governing  a 
county)  fifteen  have  workers  for  Christ  resident  in  them.  Ten 
have  been  opened  by  us,  live  by  others  ;  forty-eight  remain  un- 
opened. In  one  of  them  I  have  just  rented  a  house  ;  to  another 
I  hope  to  send  a  couple  of  men  to-morrow.  If  they  succeed 
in  obtaining  an  opening,  there  will  stiU  be  four  Fus  and  forty-six 
Hsiens— fifty  cities  in  all  to  be  possessed  for  Christ.  And  in  the 
meantime,  how  many  precious  souls  will  have  passed  beyond 
the  reach  of  the  Gospel !  The  Lord  help  us  to  be  faithful.  The 
claims  of  m}^  family  at  home  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  claims  of 
the  perishing  heathen  here  on  the  other,  cast  me  in  an  agony 
upon  the  Lord  : — "  Lord,  what  wilt  Thou  have  me  to  do  ?  "  ^ 

The  position  was  indeed  a  perplexing  one.  Miss 
Blatchley's  serious  illness,  as  we  have  seen,  deprived  the 
home-work  of  her  invaluable  services.  To  relieve  her  of 
the  care  of  house  and  children,  he  had  already  sent  home 
one  of  his  best  helpers  ;  but  Miss  Desgraz,  who  was  sorely 
needing  furlougii,  could  not  assume  the  many  responsi- 
bihties  Miss  Blatchley  had  been  obhged  to  lay  down.     And 

1  From  Tai-chow  Mrs.  Taylor  had  written  a  few  weeks  earlier  (November 
17,  1873)  :  "  When  I  think  of  your  responsibiUties  and  burdens  which  I 
am  not  with  you  to  share,  my  heart  would  sink  if  I  did  not  feel  that  Jesus 
is  with  you,  loving  you  so  tenderly  and  ready  to  meet  each  need  of  every 
moment,  and  abundantly  to  bless  you.  I  am  asking  Him  continually  to 
uphold,  strengthen  and  guide  you,  to  refresh  you  with  His  unspeakable 
love,  and  to  give  you  richly  every  blessing.  I  am  very,  very  happy  in 
Jesus.  My  joy  and  rest  were  never  so  full  before.  He  has  taken  all  my 
cares  away.  We  haue  Jesus,  and  He  is  ready  always  to  do  for  us  every 
good  thing.  I  must  tell  you  more  of  the  burdens  I  have  been  bearing, 
and  the  way  God  has  been  leading  me  when  you  come.  As  far  as  I  know 
the  reasons  for  and  against  going  to  England,  they  seem  to  me  stronger 
for  remaining  here  :    the  Lord  will  guide." 


250         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

there  was  no  one  else  who  could,  in  his  own  absence.  Four- 
teen months  of  patient,  plodding  work  in  China  had  done 
much  to  improve  the  situation  he  had  found  on  arrival, 
but  matters  were  still  critical  in  several  stations,  and  he 
longed  to  secure  not  only  improvement  but  advance.  Then 
again  the  state  of  funds  was  increasingly  serious,  and  though 
this  indicated  a  need  for  his  presence  in  England  it  made 
it  almost  impossible  for  him  to  leave  the  workers  on  the 
field.  Never  had  they  been  so  long  and  severely  tried,  and 
it  was  only  by  keeping  in  closest  touch  with  every  station 
that  he  could  tell  how  to  pray  and  to  help.  And  all  the  while 
his  sense  of  responsibility  deepened  for  the  multitudes 
around  him,  so  dark,  so  needy,  so  accessible  ! 

*'  Last  week  I  was  at  Tai-ping,"  he  continued,  in  his  letter 
of  January  26,  to  Mr.  Hill,  "  one  of  the  unopened  cities  I  have 
referred  to.  .  .  .  My  heart  was  greatly  moved  by  the  crowds 
that  Hterally  filled  the  streets  for  two  or  three  miles,  so  that  we 
could  hardly  walk — for  it  was  market-day.  .  .  .  We  did  but 
Uttle  preaching,  as  we  were  seeking  a  place  for  permanent  work, 
but  I  was  constrained  to  retire  to  the  city  wall  and  cry  to  God 
to  have  mercy  on  the  people,  to  open  their  hearts  and  give  us 
an  entrance  among  them. 

"  Without  any  seeking  on  our  part  we  were  brought  into 
touch  with  at  least  four  anxious  souls.  An  old  man  found  me 
out,  I  know  not  how,  and  followed  me  to  our  boat.  I  asked  him 
in,  and  enquired  his  name. 

"  '  My  name  is  Dzing,'  he  repHed.  '  But  the  question  which 
distresses  me,  and  to  which  I  can  find  no  answer,  is — What  am 
I  to  do  with  my  sins  ?  Our  scholars  tell  us  that  there  is  no 
future  state,  but  I  find  it  hard  to  beheve  them.' 

"  *  Do  not  beheve  any  such  thing,'  I  rephed,  '  for  there  is  an 
endless  future  before  every  one  of  us.  One  must  either  bum 
for  ever  in  hell-fire,  or  rejoice  for  ever  in  heavenly  bliss.' 

"  '  Then  what  can  I  do  ;   what  am  I  to  do  with  my  sins  ?  * 

"  How  easy  it  would  have  been  at  home  to  say,  '  Beheve  on 
the  Lord  Jesus  Chiist  and  thou  shalt  be  saved  '  ;  but  this  would 
have  had  no  meaning  to  him.  He  had  never  heard  the  words 
Jesus  Christ,  nor  would  he  have  had  any  idea  as  to  their  import. 

"  '  Some  say,'  he  went  on,  '  hve  on  vegetable  food  alone 
(a  popular  method  of  fasting,  supposed  to  be  highly  meritorious 
in  China,  as  sparing  animal  Ufe,  and  tending  to  keep  under  the 
body).     '  Should  I  hve  on  a  vegetarian  or  a  mixed  diet  ?  ' 


NOT  DISOBEDIENT  TO  THE  HEAVENLY  VISION  251 

"  '  There  is  no  merit  in  the  one  or  sin  in  the  other,'  I  repUed. 
'*Both  affect  the  stomach,  not  the  heart/ 

"  '  Ah,  so  it  has  always  seemed  to  me  !  It  seems  to  leave 
the  question  of  sin  untouched.  Oh,  Sir  !  I  lie  on  my  bed  and 
think.  I  sit  alone  in  the  day-time,  and  think.  I  think  and 
tiiink  and  think  again  :  but  I  cannot  tell  what  is  to  be  done  with 
my  sins.  I  am  seventy-two  years  of  age.  I  cannot  expect  to 
finish  another  decade.  To-day  knows  not  to-morrow's  lot,  as 
the  saying  is  ;  and  if  true  of  all,  how  much  more  so  of  me.  Can 
you  tell  me  what  is  to  be  done  about  my  suis  ?  ' 

"  '  I  can  indeed,'  was  my  reply.  '  It  is  to  answer  this  very 
question  I  have  come  so  many  thousand  miles.  Listen — and  I 
will  explain  just  what  you  want  and  need  to  know.' 

"  Gladly  then  I  told  him  of  a  living,  loving  God — our  Father 
in  heaven  ;  pointing  to  various  proofs  of  His  fatherly  love  and 
care. 

"  '  Yes  !  '  he  interrupted,  '  and  what  are  we  to  do  to  recom- 
pense such  favour,  such  goodness  ?  I  do  not  see  how  it  is  to  be 
recompensed.  Our  scholars  say  that  if  we  worship  Heaven  and 
Earth  and  the  idols  at  the  end  of  the  year,  it  is  enough.  But 
that  does  not  satisfy  me.' 

"  '  And  you  do  not  yet  know  half  there  is  to  give  thanks  for.' 

"  I  then  went  on  to  speak  of  sin  and  its  consequences,  of  God's 
pity,  and  the  incarnation  and  death  of  Christ  as  a  substitute — 
the  innocent  for  the  guilty,  that  He  might  bring  us  to  God. 

"  '  Ah  !  '  he  exclaimed,  '  and  what  can  we  do  to  recompense 
such  grace  ?  ' 

"  '  Nothing,'  I  replied,  *  absolutely  nothing  but  receive  it 
freely,  as  God's  free  gift — just  as  we  do  the  sunlight,  wind  and 
rain.' 

"  The  poor  old  man  told  me  of  all  the  idols  he  worshipped,  and 
was  quite  overwhelmed  to  think  that  in  doing  so  he  was  sinning 
against  the  true  and  hving  God.  It  takes  time  for  the  mind  to 
grasp  such  a  total  reversal  of  all  it  has  beheved  for  weU-nigh 
seventy  years.  When  my  companions  returned  he  listened 
again  to  the  wonderful  story  of  the  Cross,  and  left  us  soothed 
and  comforted — yet  evidently  bewildered — to  think  over  all  he 
had  heard,  more  than  glad  to  know  that  we  had  rented  a  house 
and  hoped  soon  to  have  Christian  colporteurs  resident  in  the 
city." 

Little  wonder  such  an  experience  brought  to  a  crisis 
the  exercise  of  mind  through  which  Mr.  Taylor  had  been 
passing.  Two  women  in  the  same  city,  and  a  young  man, 
had  shown  similar  earnestness  in  learning  from  his  native 


252         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

companions  the  Way  of  Life.  Multitudes  from  the  sur- 
rounding towns  and  villages  would  come  on  market-days 
to  the  Uttle  "  Gospel  Hall/'  and  there  the  enquirers  would 
be  taught  until  they  in  their  turn  could  become  teachers  of 
others.  Just  the  same  work  needed  doing  in  all  the  fifty 
cities  throughout  the  province  that  still  remained  without 
the  message  of  salvation.  And  oh,  the  great  Beyond  ! 
Must  he  hold  his  hand,  and  refrain  from  going  forward  as 
the  way  opened,  on  account  of  financial  straitness,  or  the 
needs  that  seemed  to  call  him  home  ?  All  the  winter  he  had 
been  definitely  waiting  upon  God,  and  specially  since  Mr. 
Judd's  return  with  reinforcements,  to  know  "  whether  He 
would  have  us  prepare  to  work  in  some  of  the  new  provinces 
or  not,  and  also  whether  we  should  occupy  more  stations  in 
Che-kiang  ?  "  His  mind  was  increasingly  assured  that  they 
ought  to  do  both  ;  that  God's  resources  were  equal  to  the 
occasion,  and  that  they  must  lay  hold  of  His  strength  and 
"  honour  Him  with  SifuU  trust." 

How  definite  was  the  step  of  faith  to  which  Mr.  Taylor 
was  led  at  this  juncture  has  only  come  to  light  while  these 
pages  are  being  written.  In  a  Bible  in  the  possession  of  his 
son  in  London,^  an  unsuspected  record  was  found — just  a 
few  pencilled  lines  that  obviously  had  a  close  connection 
with  his  visit  to  Tai-ping  and  conversation  with  the  old  man 
on  the  boat.  It  was  written  the  day  after  the  letter  to  Mr. 
Hill  just  quoted,  when  his  mind  was  still  full  of  what  he 
had  seen  and  heard. 

Tai-chow,  January  27, 1874  :  Asked  God  for  fifty  or  a  hundred 
additional  native  evangelists,  and  as  many  foreign  superintendents 
as  may  be  needed,  to  open  up  the  four  Fus  and  forty-eight  Hsiens 
still  unoccupied  in  Che-kiang  ;  also  for  the  men  to  break  into 
the  nine  unoccupied  provinces.  Asked  in  the  Name  of  Jesus. 
I  thank  Thee,  Lord  Jesus,  for  the  promise  whereon  Thou  hast 
given  me  to  rest.  Give  me  all  needed  strength  of  body,  wisdom 
of  mind,  grace  of  soul  to  do  this  Thy  so  great  work.     Amen. 

It  was  not  until  many  years  later,  when  Mr.  Taylor 
could  look  back  over  all  the  way  in  which  the  Lord  had  led 

1  The  Bible,  a  leather-bound  Bagster,  had  been  a  gift  from  Mrs.  Taylor 
on  his  first  birthday  after  their  marriage,  and  was  his  constant  companion 
at  this  time.     It  was  given  by  him  to  his  third  son,  Mr.  C.  E.  Taylor. 


NOT  DISOBEDIENT  TO  THE  HEAVENLY  VISION  253 

him,  that  he  was  impressed  with  the  fact  that  every  important 
advance  in  the  development  of  the  Mission  had  sprung  from 
or  been  directly  connected  with  times  of  sickness  or  suffering 
which  had  cast  him  in  a  special  way  upon  God.  It  was  to 
be  so  now  ;  as  though  a  deeper  preparedness  of  spirit  were 
needed,  before  he  could  be  trusted  with  the  answer  to  this 
prayer. 

There  was  quite  enough,  as  far  as  outward  experiences 
went,  to  account  for  the  serious  illness  that  overtook  him 
before  he  could  get  back  to  his  temporary  quarters  at  Feng- 
hwa.  In  the  depth  of  winter  he  had  been  almost  incessantly 
on  the  road  for  weeks  past,  bearing  an  unusual  strain  even 
for  him,  physically  and  mentally.  So  persistent  had  been 
the  calls  upon  him,  that  he  had  scarcely  seen  Mrs.  Taylor 
for  three  months.  Ten  weeks  out  of  twelve  had  been  spent 
apart,  though  they  were  planning  as  well  as  longing  to  meet. 
About  the  middle  of  December  they  had  found  one  another 
at  last,  in  the  empty  mission-house  at  Feng-hwa,  and  had 
actually  had  the  joy  of  being  alone  together,  strange  to  say, 
for  the  first  time  !  The  Httle  honejnnoon  was  soon  broken 
into,  however,  by  a  call  for  help  in  serious  illness.  Two  days' 
journey  away,  the  Crombies  were  threatened  with  the  loss  of 
their  only  remaining  children.  This  meant  hard  traveUing 
over  mountain  passes  deep  in  snow  ;  and  before  he  could 
return  a  messenger  had  come  in  haste  from  a  more 
distant  station  with  news  of  a  whole  family  down  with 
small-pox. 

Only  waiting  mitil  the  coolie  could  arrive  with  his  belong- 
ings, whom  he  had  out-distanced  in  his  eagerness  to  be  with 
his  loved  one  again,  Mr.  Taylor  set  out  once  more  to  cross 
the  mountains.  It  was  a  desperate  business  facing 
January  storms  on  those  heights,  more  than  one  of  which 
could  only  be  scaled  by  steps  literally  cut  in  the  rock. 
Anxieties  pressed  sorely  upon  him  with  regard  to  Miss 
Blatchley  and  his  children  at  home,  as  well  as  in  connection 
with  the  shortness  of  funds  in  China. 

"  Well,  the  Lord  reigns,"  he  had  written  to  his  mother  from 
a  wretched  inn  on  the  road.  "  Trials  cannot  rob  me  of  this 
unchanging  source  of  joy  and  strength/' 


254         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

But  the  overtaxed  physical  powers  at  length  gave  way, 
and  his  patients  were  no  sooner  convalescent  than  Mr. 
Taylor  himself  went  down  with  fever,  and  was  so  ill  as  to 
be  hardly  able  to  get  back  to  Feng-hwa.  The  interval,  from 
the  time  when  they  were  out  of  danger  until  he  could  safely 
leave  them,  he  had  employed  in  the  evangeHstic  journey 
which  brought  him  in  touch  with  old  Dzing,  and  led  to  the 
definite  prayer  recorded  above. 

And  now,  how  unpromising  seemed  the  sequel  to  that 
step  of  faith  !  Week  after  week  he  lay  in  helplessness  and 
suffering,  able  to  do  nothing  but  wait  upon  the  Lord.  Of 
all  that  in  His  providence  was  drawing  near,  Hudson  Taylor 
was  unconscious.  He  only  knew  that  God  had  given  him  to 
see  something  of  the  purposes  of  His  heart ;  that  he  was 
sharing  in  some  measure  the  compassions  of  Christ  for  the 
lost  and  perishing,  and  that  the  love  of  which  he  felt  the 
yearnings  was  His  Own  infinite  love.  That  that  love,  that 
purpose,  would  find  a  way  to  bless,  he  could  not  doubt.  So 
he  just  prayed  on — holding  in  faith  to  the  heavenly  vision  ; 
ready  to  go  forward  when  and  as  the  Lord  should  open  the 
way.  Never  had  advance  seemed  less  possible.  But  in  the 
Bible  beside  him  was  the  record  of  that  transaction  of  his 
soul  with  God,  and  in  his  heart  was  the  conviction  that  even 
for  the  inland  provinces — the  Western  Branch  of  the  mission 
he  longed  to  plant,  as  a  stepping-stone  to  the  far  interior — 
God's  time  had  almost  come. 

And  then,  as  he  lay  there  slowly  recovering,  a  letter  was 
put  into  his  hands  that  had  been  two  months  on  its  way 
from  England.  It  was  from  an  unknown  friend,  a  Mrs. 
Grace  of  Wycombe,  Buckinghamshire,  who  had  only  re- 
cently become  interested  in  the  Mission. 

"  My  dear  Sir,"  the  somewhat  trembling  hand  had  written 
early  in  December,  "  I  bless  God,  in  two  months  I  hope  to  place 
at  the  disposal  of  your  Council,  for  further  extension  of  Inland 
China  Mission  work,  £800.  Please  remember,  ior  fresh  provinces. 
...  I  think  your  receipt-form  beautiful — '  The  Lord  our 
Banner  :  the  Lord  will  provide.'  If  faith  is  put  forth  and  praise 
sent  up,  I  am  sure  that  Jehovah  of  Hosts  will  honour  it." 

Eight    hundred    pounds    for    "  fresh    provinces,"    for 


NOT  DISOBEDIENT  TO  THE  HEAVENLY  VISION  255 

*'  further  extension  "  of  inland  work — hardly  could  the 
convalescent  believe  he  read  aright  !  Could  any  one  have 
penned  those  words  who  did  not  know  the  exercise  of  soul 
he  had  been  passing  through  all  those  months  ?  The  very 
secrets  of  his  heart  seemed  to  look  back  at  him  from  that 
sheet  of  foreign  note-paper.  Even  before  the  prayer 
recorded  in  his  Bible,  the  letter  had  been  sent  off ;  and  now, 
just  when  it  was  most  needed,  it  had  reached  him  with  its 
wonderful  confirmation. 

From  his  sick-room  back  to  the  Yangtze  valley  was  the 
next  step,  and  those  spring  days  witnessed  a  happy  gather- 
ing at  Chin-kiang.  There,  as  in  almost  all  the  stations,  new 
life  had  come  to  the  little  company  of  behevers.  Young 
converts  were  being  received  into  the  Church,  and  native 
leaders  were  growing  in  grace  and  usefulness. ^  Older 
missionaries  were  more  hopeful,  amid  the  needs  of  their 
great  districts,  and  the  young  men,  who  had  made  good 
progress  with  the  language,  were  eager  for  pioneering  work. 
As  many  as  could  leave  their  stations  came  to  meet  Mr. 
Taylor  for  a  week  of  prayer  and  conference,  before  he  and 
Mr.  Judd  set  out  to  seek,  up  the  great  river,  a  home  for  the 
new  Western  Branch. 

*  To  his  parents,  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  in  April :  "  To  seven  new  counties 
we  have  been  enabled  to  carry  the  Gospel  since  I  reached  China,  and  in 
nearly  as  many  others  fresh  towns  have  been  opened  up.  The  Hang-chow 
Church  has  sent  out  its  first  missionary,  chosen  by  themselves  and  supported 
by  their  own  gifts."  He  added  in  May  :  "  Mr.  Stevenson  has  blessing  in 
all  his  stations,  and  has  baptized  eight  since  I  was  with  him.  Wang 
Lae-djun  is  also  prospered.  Recently  he  has  baptized  the  first  converts 
in  three  out-stations.  Mr.  Crombie  writes  of  blessing  in  Feng-hwa  and 
Ning-hai ;  and  we  are  meeting  with  encouragement  in  the  northern  stations. 

To  Mr.  Hill  he  gave  further  details  (May  29)  :  "  We  have  the  joy  of 
cheering  reports  as  to  spiritual  progress  from  all  the  stations  nearly,  Mr. 
Stott  writes  that  the  work  has  not  been  so  encouraging  at  Wen-chow  for 
a  year  and  a  half  or  two  years.  Mr.  Rudland  tells  of  another,  the  seven- 
teenth candidate  for  baptism  at  Dien-tsi  (when  an  idol  temple  had  been 
given  for  a  place  of  worship).  .  .  .  Four  persons  were  baptized  here 
(Chin-kiang)  yesterday,  and  we  had  good  meetings.  One  of  these  is  a 
native  of  Hunan,  one  of  the  unoccupied  provinces  which  has  long  been 
on  our  hearts.  ('  His  soul  seems  all  on  fire  for  the  conversion  of  his  own 
people,'  Mr,  Taylor  added  in  a  later  letter.)  Is  it  not  good  of  God  so  to 
encourage  us  when  we  are  sorely  tried  for  want  of  funds  ?  " 

And  in  June  Mr.  Taylor  reported  five  or  six  enquirers  at  Tai-ping — 
where  he  had  met  the  old  man  who  did  not  know  what  to  do  with  his  sins — 
and  baptisms  also  from  several  other  stations. 


256         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

It  was  not  any  improvement  in  the  state  of  funds  that 
accounted  for  the  new  note  of  joy  and  confidence. 

"  I  feel  no  anxiety,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  to  his  mother  on 
the  ist  of  May,  "  though  for  a  month  past  I  have  not  had  a 
dollar  in  hand  for  the  general  purposes  of  the  Mission.  The 
Lord  will  provide." 

Quoting  again  the  hymn  they  were  singing  daily  at  the 
Conference — "  In  some  way  or  other,  the  Lord  will  provide  " 
— he  wrote  to  Miss  Blatchley  a  little  later  : 

I  am  sure  that  if  we  will  but  wait,  the  Lord  will  provide.  .  .  . 
We  go  shortly,  that  is,  Mr.  Judd  and  myself,  to  see  if  we  can 
procure  headquarters  at  Wu-chang  from  which  to  open  up 
Western  China,  as  the  Lord  may  enable  us.  We  are  urged  on 
to  make  tliis  effort  now,  though  so  weak-handed,  both  by  the 
needs  of  the  unopened  provinces  and  by  our  having  funds  for 
commencing  work  in  them,  while  we  have  none  for  the  general 
work.  ...  I  cannot  conceive  how  we  shall  be  helped  through 
next  month,  though  I  fully  expect  we  shall  be.  The  Lord  can- 
not and  will  not  fail  us. 

To  Mrs.  Taylor  he  had  written  during  April,  "  The 
balance  in  hand  yesterday  was  sixty-seven  cents  !  The 
Lord  reigns  :  herein  is  our  joy  and  confidence."  And  to 
Mr.  Bailer  he  added,  when  the  balance  was  still  lower,  "  We 
have  this,  and  all  the  promises  of  God." 

"  Twenty-five  cents  plus  all  the  promises  of  God,"  wrote 
the  latter,  recalhng  the  experience,  '*  why,  one  felt  as  rich  as 
Croesus  1  and  sang — 

I  would  not  change  my  blest  estate 
For  all  the  earth  holds  good  or  great ; 
And  while  my  faith  can  keep  its  hold, 
I  envy  not  the  sinner's  gold. 

One  thing  that  concerned  Mr.  Taylor  more  at  this  time 
than  shortness  of  supphes  was  the  fear  lest,  in  their  desire 
to  help,  friends  at  home  should  be  tempted  to  make  appeals 
in  meetings,  or  even  more  personally,  for  funds.  To  one 
and  another  he  wrote  very  earnestly  on  the  subject,  begging 
that  this  might  not  be  done.  The  trial  through  which  they* 
were  passing  was  no  reason,  to  his  mind,  for  changing  the 
basis  on  which  they  had  been  led  to  found  the  Mission.     In 


NOT  DISOBEDIENT  TO  THE  HEAVENLY  VISION  257 

acknowledging  one  of  Mr.  George  Miiller's  generous  contri- 
butions ^  he  had  written  early  in  April  : 

The  work  generally  is  very  cheering,  and  we  feel  happier  than 
ever  in  the  Lord  and  in  His  service.  Our  faith  never  was  so 
much  tried  :   His  faithfulness  never  so  much  experienced. 

And  this  position  was  to  him  far  more  safe  and  blessed, 
as  long  as  the  trial  was  permitted,  than  the  alternative  of 
going  into  debt  or  making  appeals  to  man.  How  truly  this 
was  the  case  may  be  seen  from  the  following  letter  to  a 
member  of  the  Coimcil,  written  just  after  the  Conference  at 
Chin-kiang  (April  24)  : 

I  am  truly  sorry  that  you  should  be  distressed  at  not  having 
funds  to  send  me.  May  I  not  say,  "  Be  careful  for  nothing." 
We  should  use  all  care  to  economise  what  God  does  send  us ; 
but  when  that  is  done  bear  no  care  about  real  or  apparent  lack. 
After  hving  on  GoA's  faithfulness  for  many  years,  I  can  testify 
that  times  of  want  have  ever  been  times  of  special  blessing,  or 
have  led  to  them.  I  do  beg  that  never  any  appeal  for  funds  be 
put  forward,  save  to  God  in  prayer.  When  our  work  becomes 
a  begging  work,  it  dies.  God  is  faithful,  must  be  so.  "  The 
Lord  is  my  Shepherd,  I  shaU  not  want."  He  has  said  :  "  Take 
no  thought  (anxiety)  for  your  life,  what  ye  shall  eat,  or  what  ye 
shall  drink,  nor  yet  for  your  body,  what  ye  shall  put  on.  But 
seek  first  (to  promote)  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  (to  fulfil)  His 
righteousness,  and  all  these  things  shall  he  added  unto  you." 

"  Obedience  is  better  than  sacrifice,  and  to  hearken  than  the 
fat  of  rams."  It  is  doubting,  beloved  Brother,  not  trusting  that 
is  tempting  the  Lord. 

At  this  very  time,  it  is  interesting  to  notice,  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Taylor  were  themselves  giving  largely  to  the  work  in 
various  ways.  A  considerable  proportion  of  all  they  re- 
ceived for  their  own  use  was  passed  on  to  fellow-workers, 
and  a  property  yielding  an  income  of  four  hundred  pounds 
a  year,  which  had  recently  come  to  Mrs.  Taylor  from  a 
relative,  was  joyfully  set  apart  for  the  Lord's  service.  The 
intimate  friend  to  whom  Mr.  Taylor  was  writing  had  ques- 
tioned the  wisdom  of  this  course,  which  led  to  one  of  the 

1  Most  opportunely  had  this  help  arrived  at  the  beginning  of  the 
quarter  (gifts  of  £-^2$  in  all) — ten  cheques  for  members  of  the  Mission, 
including  one  of  £^o  for  himself. 

S 


258         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

few  references  he  ever  made  to  the  subject.  Anxious  that 
their  position  should  not  be  misunderstood,  he  continued  in 
this  letter  : 

As  to  the  property  my  dear  wife  has  given  to  the  Lord  for 
His  service,  I  most  cordially  agreed  with  her  in  the  step,  and 
do  so  now.  I  beHeve  that  in  so  doing  she  has  made  hers  for 
ever  that  which  was  her  Master's,  and  only  entrusted  to  her  so 
to  use.  It  is  not  a  modem  question,  this  of  principal  or  interest, 
endowment  or  voluntary  support,  and  we  cannot  expect  all  to 
see  alike  on  the  subject.  We  might  capitaHse  the  annual  income 
of  the  Mission,  and  use  only  the  interest ;  but  I  fear  the  income 
would  soon  be  small,  and  the  work  not  very  extensive. 

But  you  may,  I  think,  be  mistaken  as  to  our  thought  and 
intention,  as  well  as  with  regard  to  the  nature  of  the  property. 
The  whole  cannot  be  reaHsed,  half  of  it  being  reserved  to  provide 
annuities.  ...  At  present  all  we  have  is  about  four  hundred 
pounds  of  annual  interest,  payable  in  varying  quarterly  sums. 
We  do  not  propose  to  put  either  principal  or  interest  into  the 
General  Fund  (though  we  might  be  led  to  do  so),  but  to  use  it, 
equally  avoiding  stint  or  lavishness,  as  the  Lord  may  direct, 
for  special  purposes  not  met  by  the  General  Fund.  We  are 
neither  of  us  inexperienced,  unacquainted  with  the  value  of 
money,  or  unaccustomed  either  to  its  want  or  possession.  There 
are  few  more  cool  and  calculating,  perhaps,  than  we  are  ;  but 
in  all  our  calculations  we  calculate  on  God's  faithfulness,  or  seek 
to  do  so.  Hitherto  we  have  not  been  put  to  shame,  nor  have  I 
any  anxiety  or  fear  lest  we  should  be  in  the  future. 

Never  has  our  work  entailed  such  real  trial  or  so  much  exercise 
of  faith.  The  sickness  of  our  beloved  sister.  Miss  Blatchley, 
and  her  strong  desire  to  see  me  ;  the  needs  of  our  dear  children  ; 
the  state  of  the  funds  ;  the  changes  required  in  the  work  to 
admit  of  some  going  home,  others  coming  out,  and  of  further 
expansion,  and  many  other  things  not  easily  expressed  in  writing 
would  be  crushing  anxieties  if  we  were  to  bear  them.  But  the 
Lord  bears  us  and  them  too,  and  makes  our  hearts  so  very  glad 
in  Himself — not  Himself  plus  a  bank  balance — that  I  have  never 
known  greater  freedom  from  anxiety  and  care. 

The  other  week  when  I  reached  Shanghai,  I  was  in  great  and 
immediate  need.  The  mails  were  both  in — no  remittance  !  and 
the  folios  showed  no  balances  at  home.  I  cast  the  burden  on 
the  Lord.  Next  morning  on  waking  I  felt  inclined  to  trouble, 
but  the  Lord  gave  me  a  word,  "  I  know  their  sorrows,  and  I  am 
come  down  to  dehver.  .  .  .  Certainly  I  will  be  with  thee  "  ;  and 
before  6  a.m.  I  was  as  sure  that  help  was  at  hand  as  when,  near 


NOT  DISOBEDIENT  TO  THE  HEAVENLY  VISION  259 

noon,  I  received  a  letter  from  Mr.  Miiller  which  had  been  to 
Ningpo,  and  was  thus  delayed  in  reaching  me,  and  which  con- 
tained more  than  three  hundred  pounds. 

My  need  now  is  great  and  urgent ;  God  is  greater  and  more 
near  :  and  because  ^e  is,  and  is  what  He  is,  all  must  be,  all  is, 
aU  will  be  well.  Oh,  my  dear  Brother,  the  joy  of  knowing  the 
Living  God,  of  seeing  the  Living  God,  of  resting  on  the  Living 
God  in  our  very  special  and  peculiar  circumstances  1  I  am  but 
His  agent.  He  wiU  look  after  His  o\vn  honour,  provide  for  His 
own  servants,  and  supply  all  our  need  according  to  His  own 
riches — you  helping  by  your  prayers  and  work  of  faith  and  labour 
of  love.  As  to  whether  He  will  make  the  widow's  oil  and  meal 
go  a  long  way,  or  send  her  more — it  is  merely  a  question  of 
detail ;  the  result  is  sure.  The  righteous  shall  not  be  forsaken, 
nor  his  seed  beg  their  bread.  In  Christ,  all  the  promises  are 
Yea  and  Amen. 


CHAPTER  XVIII 

OUT  OF  WEAKNESS  WERE   MADE   STRONG 
1874-1875.     Aet.  42-43. 

It  was  a  memorable  day  for  Hudson  Taylor  when  he  set  out 
with  his  like-minded  companion  to  follow  the  mighty 
Yangtze,  if  not  to  its  upper  waters,  at  any  rate  to  its  conflu- 
ence with  the  tributary  Han,  where  the  metropolis  of  mid- 
China  formed  the  farthest  outpost  of  Protestant  missions. 
Six  hundred  miles  from  the  coast,  this  great  centre  of 
culture  and  commerce  lay  far  beyond  any  inland  station  he 
had  yet  visited  ;  but  northward,  westward,  southward  of  it 
stretched  the  nine  unopened  provinces,  from  the  tropical 
jungles  of  Burma  to  the  barren  steppes  of  Mongolia  and  the 
snowy  ramparts  of  Tibet.  Vast  was  that  waiting  world, 
and  vast  the  longings  with  which  Hudson  Taylor  turned  his 
face — as  he  had  long  turned  his  heart — toward  its  silent 
appeal. 

"  My  soul  yearns,  oh  !  how  intensely,"  he  wrote  at  this  time 
(June  1874),  "  for  the  evangelisation  of  the  hundred  and  eighty 
miUions  of  these  unoccupied  provinces.  Oh,  that  I  had  a  hundred 
Hves  to  give  or  spend  for  their  good  1  " 

Meanwhile  in  England  very  different  were  the  experi- 
ences of  those  most  closely  connected  with  the  work. 
Tenderly  cared  for  by  Miss  Soltau,  Mrs.  Duncan,  and  others. 
Miss  Blatchley  still  hngered,  but  it  was  in  great  weakness 
and  suffering ;  and  the  ebb-tide  of  her  Hfe  seemed  to  leave 
the  cause  she  had  so  faithfully  served  almost  stranded. 

"  I  seem  to  see  her  now,"  wrote  Miss  Soltau,  "  her  lovely  face 
so  wan,  lying  on  the  sofa,  with  the  tears  running  down  her  cheeks 

260 


OUT  OF  WEAKNESS  WERE  MADE  STRONG   261 

as  she  prayed  for  every  missionary  at  every  station.  Oh,  the 
burden  on  that  loving  heart  of  the  great  work  i  And  so  conscious 
was  she  that  she  was  leaving  it  before  long  for  the  Better  Land. 
One  Saturday  Miss  Pillans  Smith  might  be  with  us,  and  another, 
dear  Mrs,  Duncan.  For  many  weeks  I  do  not  think  we  ever 
numbered  ten  ;  and  never  shall  I  forget  the  feeling  of  desolation 
and  helplessness  when  we  two  would  find  ourselves  alone — as  if 
no  one  in  the  wide  world  cared  for  the  Uttle  band  of  toilers  in 
far-off  China  I  " 

It  had  been  to  Mr.  Taylor,  as  we  have  seen,  a  keen  sorrow 
that  he  could  not  hasten  home  when  first  he  heard  of  this 
illness,  to  relieve  the  beloved  friend  to  whom  he  and  his,  as 
well  as  the  Mission,  owed  so  much.  But  month  after  month 
had  gone  by,  and  it  was  not  until  he  had  seen  Mr.  Judd  in 
possession  of  suitable  quarters  at  Wu-chang  ^  that  the  way 
began  to  open  for  his  return  to  England.  But  even  before 
he  could  leave  China,  the  one  he  so  hoped  to  succour  had  set 
out  on  a  longer  journey.  For  her  all  need  of  human  help 
was  past. 

"  Dear,  much-loved  Emily  !  "  wrote  Miss  Soltau.  "  Our  loss 
only  those  can  estimate  who  really  knew  her.  .  .  .  Yet,  not  for 
one  moment  would  I  recall  that  tender  heart  from  its  joy  in  His 
embrace.  .  .  .  Very  lovely  have  been  the  last  two  years,  .  .  . 
such  growth  in  grace,  such  sweet  rest  in  the  Lord,  such  loving 
tenderness  to  all  around  1  It  was  a  great  privilege  to  be  with 
her." 

"  The  most  glorious  triumphs  of  Christ  are  spiritual,"  we 
quote  from  the  pen  of  the  Rev.  H.  Grattan  Guinness,^  "  and  His 

1  Not  that  the  house  first  rented  proved  to  be  the  permanent  head- 
quarters of  the  Western  Branch  of  the  C.I.M.  No  fewer  than  twelve 
different  arrangements  had  to  be  made — twelve  houses  found  and  rented, 
if  not  occupied  for  longer  or  shorter  periods — before  the  missionaries  were 
allowed  to  settle  in  that  proud,  anti-foreign  capital  of  two  provinces. 
Across  the  river  in  the  treaty  port  of  Hankow,  it  might  have  been  easier 
to  obtain  premises  ;  but  the  London  Missionary  Society  and  the  Wesleyan 
Mission  were  already  there,  represented  by  able  and  devoted  workers. 
Time  after  time,  as  they  faced  their  seemingly  endless  difficulties,  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Judd  found,  in  common  with  all  the  pioneers  of  the  Mission, 
that  a  day  set  apart  for  prayer  and  fasting  turned  the  tide,  and  brought 
deliverance  as  well  as  blessing. 

*  In  their  newly  founded  East  London  Institute  for  Home  and  Foreign 
Missions,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Guinness  were  even  then  preparing  not  a  few  of 
the  pioneers  destined  to  open  up  inland  China.     Messrs.  Bailer  and  Henry 


262         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

noblest  work  is  that  wrought  in  the  secret  of  the  soul.  Not  the 
conquest  of  kingdoms,  but  self-conquest ;  not  the  renunciation 
of  anything  external  merely,  but  self-renunciation ;  not  the 
consecration  of  substance,  but  self -consecration  in  the  service 
of  God  and  man — these  are  the  hardest  deeds  to  accompUsh, 
and  the  most  divine  attainments.  They  shine  with  the  peculiar 
light  of  Calvary. 

"  Emily  Blatchley,  though  unknown  to  the  world,  was  a 
true  heroine,  and  an  instance  of  this  noble,  Christ-like  self-sacrifice 
for  the  good  of  others.  Her  memory  is  fragrant,  for  her  Ufe 
was  consecrated  to  Christ  and  the  salvation  of  the  heathen. 
For  his  sake  she  took  care  of  a  little  flock,  the  children  of  the  Rev. 
J.  Hudson  Taylor  of  the  China  Inland  Mission.  She  tended 
them  in  health  and  in  sickness,  at  home  and  abroad,  for  years  ; 
and  as  long  as  health  permitted  was  their  only  teacher.  This 
she  did  to  help  forward  the  evangelisation  of  China,  by  setting 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  as  free  as  possible  for  directly  missionary 
work.  Not  content  with  caring  for  Mr.  Taylor's  children,  she 
became  a  Secretary  of  the  Mission.  She  wrote  in  its  interest 
thousands  of  letters ;  she  kept  its  accounts  ;  she  edited  its 
Occasional  Papers  ;  she  helped  to  bear  its  burdens  ;  she  worked 
long  hours,  and  often  far  into  the  night.  She  not  only  toiled 
with  head  and  hand,  but  with  her  heart  too,  for  she  prayed  for 
the  Mission.  She  daily  remembered  its  missionaries  by  name 
at  the  Throne  of  Grace,  and  pleaded  continually  its  cause  with 
God.  She  suffered  too.  She  '  endured  hardness  *  when  in 
China  and  on  long  journeys,  putting  up  with  much  discomfort. 
She  ministered  to  her  fellow-missionaries,  and  nursed  them  when 
they  were  sick.  She  bore  the  trial  of  her  faith  and  that  of  love 
as  well,  for  in  the  cause  of  missions  she  sacrificed  her  heart's 
affections.  And  all  this  she  did  in  a  quiet,  unpretending  way, 
and  with  a  calm  perseverance  which  continued  to  the  end  of  life. 
None  could  have  given  more  to  the  work  of  God  among  the  heathen 
than  she  did,  for  she  gave  all  she  had — herself.  Blessed  be  God 
for  the  grace  bestowed  upon  her,  and  for  the  everlasting  rest 
into  which  she  has  entered  :  for  the  grace  which  caused  her  to 
toil  for  Jesus,  and  then  to  sleep  in  Him. 

"  Faithful  friend  of  a  feeble  but  heroic  Mission,  would  that 
all  its  helpers  were  like-minded  with  thee  !  Would  that  all 
those  who  have  ministered  to  it  of  their  substance  had  as  constant 
a  memory  of  its  wants  as  thine  !     The  China  Inland  Mission  has 

Taylor,  already  in  China,  proved  to  be  the  first  of  a  thousand  and  more 
young  workers  who  from  Harley  House,  Bow,  went  out  to  the  ends  of 
the  earth,  including  all  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Guinness's  own  children. 


OUT  OF  WEAKNESS  WERE  MADE  STRONG  263 

no  eloquent  advocate  of  its  claims.  It  has  no  denomination  for 
its  support.  It  has  no  great  names  on  which  to  rely.  It  is, 
therefore,  cast  the  more  on  God,  and  on  the  faithful  love  and 
help  of  the  comparatively  few  who  can  appreciate  the  simplicity, 
faith,  and  devotedness  which  characterise  its  work  in  the  interest 
of  China's  millions.  But  let  those  few  remember  that  it  is  no 
small  honour  to  be  enabled  to  recognise  and  minister  to  the 
Master  when  He  appears  in  the  garments  of  poverty  and  weakness. 
"  Friends  of  the  China  Inland  Mission,  a  precious  helper  has 
just  been  removed  from  our  midst ;  let  us  close  our  ranks  and 
seek  to  fill  the  gap.  That  Mission  now  needs  our  help  more  than 
ever  ;  let  us  prove  ourselves  worthy  of  the  occasion.  Let  us 
help  the  work  afresh  ;  and  let  us  persevere  in  helping  it.  Here, 
around  this  newly  opened  grave,  let  our  interest  in  this  work 
revive  ;  and  help  Thou,  O  Lord  !  Is  not  Thy  Name  inscribed 
upon  its  banner  ?  Is  not  its  song  Ebenezer,  and  its  hope  Jehovah- 
jireh  ?  Bless,  then,  this  Mission,  and  let  the  little  one  become 
a  thousand  for  Thy  glory's  sake."  * 


Strange  and  sorrowful  was  the  home-coming  in  October, 
to  find  Miss  Blatchley*s  place  empty,  the  children  scattered, 
the  Saturday  prayer  meeting  discontinued,  and  the  work 
almost  at  a  standstill.  But,  even  then,  the  lowest  ebb  had 
not  been  reached.  When  on  his  way  up  the  Yangtze  some 
months  previously,  a  fall  had  severely  shaken  Mr.  Taylor. 
The  steamer  by  which  he  and  Mr.  Judd  travelled  was 
McBain's  smallest  cargo-boat,  and  the  gangway  down  to 
"  between  decks  "  was  little  more  than  a  ladder.  Slipping 
on  one  of  the  top  steps,  Mr.  Taylor  had  fallen  heavily  to  the 
bottom,  coming  down  upon  his  heels,  and  a  sprained  ankle 
had  been  only  a  small  part  of  the  damage.  Extreme  pain 
in  the  back  disabled  him  for  several  days,  and  even  when  the 
ankle  was  well  he  still  needed  the  help  of  crutches.  Con- 
cussion of  the  spine  often  develops  slowly ;  and  it  was  not 
until  he  had  been  at  home  a  week  or  two  that  the  rush  of 
London  life,  with  constant  travelling  by  train  and  omnibus, 
began  to  tell.     Then  came  gradual  paralysis  of  the  lower 

*  Miss  Blatchley  entered  into  rest  on  Sunday  morning  July  26,  1874, 
and  was  buried  in  Highgate  Cemetery.  The  above  appreciation — a  wreath 
of  tender  thoughts  to  lay  upon  her  grave — appeared  in  The  Christian  a 
(ew  days  later. 


264         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

limbs,  and  the  doctor's  verdict  that  consigned  him  to  absolute 
rest  in  bed.  Stricken  down  in  the  prime  of  his  days,  he 
could  only  lie  in  that  upstairs  room  conscious  of  all  there 
was  to  be  done,  of  all  that  was  not  being  attended  to — lie 
there  and  rejoice  in  God. 

Yes,  rejoice  in  God  !  With  desires  and  hopes  as  limitless 
as  the  needs  that  pressed  upon  his  heart ;  with  the  prayer 
he  had  prayed,  and  the  answers  God  had  given  ;  with 
opportunities  opening  in  China,  and  a  wave  of  spiritual 
blessing  reviving  the  churches  at  home  that  he  longed  to 
see  turned  into  missionary  channels  ;  ^  with  the  '*  sentence 
of  death  "  in  himself,  and  only  the  faintest  hope  that  he 
would  ever  stand  or  walk  again,  the  deepest  thing  of  all  was 
that  unquestioning  acceptance  of  the  will  of  God,  as  wise, 
as  kind,  as  best.  Certain  it  is  that  from  that  quiet  room, 
that  room  of  suffering,  sprang  all  the  larger  growth  of  the 
China  Inland  Mission. 

A  little  bed  with  four  posts  was  now  the  sphere  to  which 
Hudson  Taylor  found  himself  restricted — he  who  had  hoped 
to  do  so  much  on  this  visit  to  England.  Were  not  the 
receiving-home  in  Shanghai  and  the  chain  of  river-stations 
ready  for  the  pioneers  ?  was  not  money  in  hand  for  their 
initial  expenses  ?  was  not  the  home  department  caUing  for 
entire  reorganisation  ?  If  ever  strenuous,  active  effort  had 
been  needed,  it  was  surely  at  this  juncture  :  and  a  little  bed 

*  Just  as  the  launching  of  the  Mission  had  coincided  with  an  epoch 
of  spiritual  revival  in  the  home  churches  (see  p.  48),  so  now  the  commence- 
ment of  its  larger  growth  synchronised  with  a  remarkable  movement  for 
the  deepening  of  spiritual  life.  Messrs.  Moody  and  Sankey  were  in  the 
midst  of  their  first  great  missions  in  London,  crowding  among  other  places 
the  Agricultural  Hall,  with  its  seating  capacity  of  twenty  thousand.  Dr. 
Boardman's  memorable  book  The  Higher  Christian  Life  was  being  widely 
read,  and  conferences  on  the  lines  of  "  Keswick,"  which  indeed  grew  out 
of  them,  were  drawing  together  Christians  of  all  denominations.  Notable 
among  these  was  the  Brighton  Convention  of  this  summer  (ten  days  in 
June  1875),  when  audiences  of  two  to  three  thousand  filled  the  Corn 
Exchange,  and  rivers  of  blessing  were  opened  in  many  hearts  that  were 
to  flow  to  the  ends  of  the  earth.  From  the  deep  experience  through 
which  he  had  himself  been  brought  in  China,  Mr.  Taylor  was  able  to  enter 
into  the  spirit  and  purpose  of  these  gatherings  in  no  ordinary  way.  He 
was  sufficiently  recovered  to  be  one  of  the  speakers  at  the  Brighton  Con- 
vention, and  his  life-long  connection  with  "  Keswick  "  may  thus  be  said 
to  have  dated  from  its  very  inception. 


OUT  OF  WEAKNESS  WERE  MADE  STRONG  265 

with  four  posts  was  his  prison,  shall  we  say,  or  opportunity  ? 
Between  the  posts  at  the  foot  of  the  bed  hung  a  map — though 
he  hardly  needed  it — a  map  of  China.  And  round  about 
him  da^^  and  night  was  the  Presence  to  which  he  had  fullest 
access  in  the  Name  of  Jesus. 

"  I  will  give  thee  a  place  of  access  among  these  that 
stand  by"  (Zech.  iii.  7).  Might  not  they  all  have  had  it  ? 
We  at  any  rate  all  "  have  our  access  by  one  Spirit  unto  the 
Father"  (Eph.  ii.  18).  That  Hudson  Taylor  not  only  had 
it  but  used  it  made  all  the  difference. 

Long  after,  when  the  prayers  that  went  up  from  that 
bed  of  pain  had  been  more  than  answered,  and  the  workers 
of  the  Mission  were  preaching  Christ  far  and  wide  through- 
out inland  China,  a  well-known  leader  of  the  Scottish  Church"! 
said  to  Mr.  Taylor  :  ' 

"  You  must  often  be  conscious  of  the  wonderful  way   ; 
God  has  prospered  you  in  the  C.I.M.     I  doubt  if  any  man 
living  has  had  a  greater  honour." 

"  I  do  not  look  upon  it  in  that  way,"  was  the  quiet   ■ 
answer.     Then  turning  to  his  friend  in  the  carriage  he  said ,  ■ 
earnestly  :    "Do  you  know  I  sometimes  think  that  God  i 
must  have  been  looking  for  some  one  small  enough  and 
weak  enough  for  Him  to  use,  so  that  all  the  glory  might  be 
His,  and  that  He  found  me."  ^  -^ 

The  outlook  did  not  brighten  as  the  year  drew  to  a  close. 
Mr.  Taylor  was  less  and  less  able  to  move,  even  in  bed,  and 
at  last  could  only  turn  from  side  to  side  with  the  help  of  a 
rope  firmly  fixed  above  him.  At  first  he  had  managed  to 
write  a  little,  but  now  could  not  even  hold  a  pen,  and  circum- 
stances deprived  him  of  Mrs.  Taylor's  help  for  the  time 
being.  Then  it  was,  with  the  dawn  of  1875,  that  a  little 
paper  found  its  way  into  the  Christian  press  entitled  : 

" APPEAL  FOR  PRAYER 
On  behalf  of  more  than  a  hundred  and  fifty  millions  of 
Chinese." 

^  Dr.  Elder  Gumming  mentioned  this  incident  to  the  writers  as  having 
taken  place  when  he  and  Mr.  Taylor  were  driving  together  to  the  funeral 
of  the  venerable  Dr.  Somerville  of  Glasgow. 


266         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

It  briefly  stated  the  facts  with  regard  to  the  nine  un- 
opened provinces  ;  that  friends  of  the  C.I.M.  had  long  been 
pra5dng  for  men  to  go  as  pioneer  evangehsts  to  these  regions  ; 
that  recently  four  thousand  pounds  had  been  given  for  the 
purpose  ;  and  that  among  the  converts  in  the  older  stations 
of  the  Mission  were  some  from  the  far  interior,  who  were 
earnestly  desiring  to  carry  the  Gospel  to  the  districts  from 
which  they  had  come. 

*'  Our  present,  pressing  need,"  it  continued,  "is  of  more 
missionaries  to  lead  the  way.  Will  each  of  your  Christian 
readers  at  once  raise  his  heart  to  God,  and  spend  one  minute  in 
earnest  prayer  that  God  will  raise  up,  this  year,  eighteen  suitable 
men  to  devote  themselves  to  this  work  ?  " 

It  did  not  say  that  the  leader  of  the  Mission  was  to  all 
appearances  a  hopeless  invalid.  It  did  not  refer  to  the  fact 
that  the  four  thousand  pounds  recently  given  had  come 
from  his  wife  and  himself,  part  of  their  capital,  the  whole 
of  which  they  had  consecrated  to  the  work  of  God.  It  did 
not  mention  that  for  two  and  a  half  years  they  and  others 
had  been  praying  daily  for  the  eighteen  evangelists,  praying 
in  faith.  But  those  who  read  the  appeal  felt  the  influence 
of  these  things  and  much  besides,  and  were  moved  as  men 
are  not  moved  by  sayings  and  doings  that  have  not  their 
roots  deep  in  God. 

So  before  long  Mr.  Taylor's  correspondence  was  largely 
increased,  as  was  also  his  joy  in  dealing  with  it — or  in  seeing, 
rather,  how  the  Lord  dealt  with  it  and  with  all  else  that 
concerned  him. 

"  The  Mission  had  no  paid  helpers,"  he  wrote  of  this  time, 
*'  but  God  led  volunteers,  without  pre-arrangement,  to  come 
in  from  day  to  day  to  write  from  dictation,  and  thus  letters  were 
answered.  If  one  who  called  in  the  morning  could  not  stay 
long  enough  to  answer  all,  another  was  sure  to  come,  and  perhaps 
one  or  two  might  look  in  in  the  afternoon.  Occasionally,  a 
young  friend  who  was  employed  in  the  city  would  come  after 
business  hours  and  do  any  needful  bookkeeping,  or  finish  letters 
not  already  dealt  with.  So  it  was  day  by  day.  One  of  the 
happiest  periods  of  my  life  was  that  period  of  forced  inactivity, 
when  one  could  do  nothing  but  '  rejoice  in  the  Lord  '  and  '  wait 
patiently  for  Him,'  and  see  Him  meeting  all  one's  need.     Never 


OUT  OF  WEAKNESS  WERE  MADE  STRONG  267 

were  my  letters,  before  or  since,  kept  so  regularly  and  promptly 
answered. 

"  And  the  eighteen  men  asked  of  God  began  to  come.  There 
was  first  some  correspondence  ;  then  they  came  to  see  me  in 
my  room.  Soon  I  had  a  class  studying  Chinese  at  my  bedside. 
In  due  time  the  Lord  sent  them  forth,^  and  then  the  dear  friends 
at  Mildmay  began  to  pray  for  my  restoration.  The  Lord  blessed 
the  means  used  and  I  was  raised  up.  One  reason  for  my  being 
laid  aside  was  gone.  Had  I  been  well  and  able  to  move  about, 
some  might  have  thought  that  my  urgent  appeals  rather  than 
God's  working  had  sent  the  eighteen  men  to  China.  But  utterly 
laid  aside,  able  only  to  dictate  a  request  for  prayer,  the  answer 
to  our  prayers  was  the  more  apparent." 

When  he  was  so  far  recovered  that  the  physicians  wished 
him  to  sit  up  for  an  hour  or  two  daily,  he  could  scarcely 
find  time  to  do  so,  as  several  letters  record.  Every  moment 
was  taken  up  with  interviews,  with  correspondence  through 
his  willing  helpers,  and  with  care  for  the  work  in  China. 
The  weekly  prayer  meeting  was  now  held  in  his  room,  and 
the  Council  gathered  from  time  to  time  at  his  bedside. 

"  I  am  just  venturing  to  do  a  little  myself,"  he  wrote  to  Miss 
Turner  at  the  end  of  February.  "  I  sit  up  in  an  easy  chair  for 
two  hours  some  days.  I  cannot  write  much,  but  just  pen  a  few 
lines  to  let  you  know  that  you  are  not  forgotten.  .  .  . 

"  Three  months  in  bed  is  a  long  time.  It  would  have  been 
very  weary,  but  that  the  Lord  Jesus  has  made  it  very  happy. 
Some  nights  when  I  have  never  slept  at  all,  I  have  had  much 
happy  time  to  think  of  you  all  and  to  pray  for  you." 

And  to  another  friend  in  China  a  couple  of  months  later : 

You  will  be  glad  to  hear  that  at  last  I  am  recovering.  My  back 
is  gaining  strength,  and  after  nearly  five  months  in  bed  I  am  now 

*  It  had  been  quite  a  problem  as  to  how  arrangements  were  to  be 
made  for  the  outgoing  of  party  after  party  with  the  leader  of  the  Mission 
a  helpless  invaUd  ;  but  in  this  too  the  Lord  provided  unexpected  and 
most  efficient  help.  Mr.  Taylor  had  prayed  much  about  it,  and  rejoiced 
to  find  that  a  warm  friend  from  Glasgow,  whom  he  had  last  met  on  the 
steamer  at  the  time  of  his  accident,  was  passing  through  London.  Mr. 
Thomas  Weir,  from  his  connection  with  China  shipping  and  his  love  for 
the  Mission,  was  the  one  person  whose  advice  Mr.  Taylor  would  most 
have  welcomed  ;  and  when  it  proved  that  he  could  give  the  matter  personal 
attention  it  was  a  cause  for  great  thankfulness.  The  economical  arrange- 
ment Mr.  Weir  made  at  that  time  with  the  Directors  of  the  Castle  Line 
continued  to  work  well  for  a  number  of  years. 


268         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

able  to  get  up  and  do\\Ti  stairs.  ...  I  believe  that  God  has 
enabled  me  to  do  more  for  China  during  this  long  illness  than 
I  might  have  done  had  I  been  well.  Much  thought,  much 
prayer,  and  some  effort  in  the  way  of  writing  by  dictation  have 
brought  my  intense  desire  for  the  evangelisation  of  all  the  un- 
reached provinces  visibly  nearer. 

By  this  time  a  marked  change  had  come  over  the  spiriit 
of  the  scene  at  Pyrland  Road.  Instead  of  a  deserted  house, 
many  were  coming  and  going.  The  j&rst  party  of  the 
Eighteen  had  already  sailed,  and  candidates  overflowed  all 
the  accommodation  available  for  their  reception.  Another 
house,  indeed,  had  to  be  taken  for  this  purpose,  for  in  answer 
to  the  "  Appeal  for  Prayer  "  pubhshed  in  January,  no  fewer 
than  sixty  offers  of  service  were  received  during  the  year. 
How  important  Mr.  Taylor  felt  it  that  no  hasty  decisions 
should  be  made,  may  be  judged  from  the  following  letter 
used  in  his  correspondence  with  candidates  at  this  period. 
If  their  response  to  this  faithful  statement  of  the  case 
warranted  the  hope  that  they  would  work  happily  in  the 
Mission,  they  were  invited  to  spend  a  longer  or  shorter  time 
at  Pyrland  Road  for  personal  acquaintance. 

"  While  thankful  for  any  educational  advantages  that  candi- 
dates may  have  enjoyed,"  he  wrote,  "  we  attach  far  greater 
importance  to  spiritual  qualifications.  We  desire  men  who 
believe  that  there  is  a  God  and  that  He  is  both  intelligent  and 
faithful,  and  who  therefore  trust  Him  ;  who  believe  that  He  is 
the  Rewarder  of  those  who  diligently  seek  Him,  and  are  there- 
fore men  of  prayer.  We  desire  men  who  believe  the  Bible  to  be 
the  Word  of  God,  and  who,  accepting  the  declaration  '  All  power 
is  given  unto  me,'  are  prepared  to  carry  out  to  the  best  of  their 
ability  the  command,  '  Go  .  .  .  teach  all  nations,'  relying  on 
Him  who  possesses  '  all  power  '  and  has  promised  to  be  with  His 
messengers  *  always,'  rather  than  on  foreign  gun-boats  though 
they  possess  some  power ;  men  who  are  prepared,  therefore,  to 
go  to  the  remotest  parts  of  the  interior  of  China,  expecting  to 
find  His  arm  a  sufficient  strength  and  sta}^.  We  desire  men  who 
beUeve  in  eternity  and  Hve  for  it  ;  who  believe  in  its  momentous 
issues  whether  to  the  saved  or  to  the  lost,  and  therefore  cannot 
but  seek  to  pluck  the  ignorant  and  the  guilty  as  brands  from 
the  burning. 

"  The  Mission  is  supported  by  donations,  not  subscriptions. 
We  have,  therefore,  no  guaranteed  income,  and  can  only  minister 


OUT  OF  WEAKNESS  WERE  MADE  STRONG  269 

\ 
to  our  missionaries  as  we  ourselves  are  ministered  to  by  God. 
We  do  not  send  men  to  China  as  our  agents.  But  men  who 
believe  that  God  has  called  them  to  the  work,  who  go  there  to 
labour"  for  God,  and  can  therefore  trust  Him  Whose  they  are 
and  Whom  they  serve  to  supply  their  temporal  needs,  we  gladly 
co-operate  with — providing,  if  needful,  outfit  and  passage  money, 
and  such  a  measure  of  support  as  circumstances  call  for  and 
we  are  enabled  to  supply.  As  may  be  seen  from  the  last  Occasional 
Paper  (No.  39),  our  faith  is  sometimes  tried  ;  but  God  always 
proves  Himself  faithful,  and  at  the  right  time  and  in  the  right 
way  supplies  all  our  need. 

"  One-third  of  the  human  family  are  in  China,  needing  the 
Gospel.  Twelve  miUions  there  are  passing  beyond  the  reach 
of  that  Gospel  every  year.  If  you  want  hard  work  and  Httle 
appreciation  ;  if  you  value  God's  approval  more  than  you  fear 
man's  disapprobation  ;  if  you  are  prepared  to  take  joyfully  the 
spoiling  of  your  goods,  and  seal  your  testimony,  if  need  be,  with 
your  blood  ;  if  you  can  pity  and  love  the  poor  Chinese  in  all 
their  mental  and  moral  degradation,  as  well  as  Hteral  filth  and 
impurity,  you  may  count  on  a  harvest  of  souls  now  and  a 
crown  of  glory  hereafter  'that  fadeth  not  away,'  and  on  the  ' 
Master's  '  Well  done.' 

"  You  would  find  that,  in  connection  with  the  China  Inland 
Mission,  it  is  no  question  of  '  making  the  most  of  both  worlds.' 
The  men,  the  only  men  who  will  be  happy  with  us,  are  those  who 
have  this  world  under  their  feet  :  and  I  do  venture  to  say  that 
such  men  will  find  a  happiness  they  never  dreamed  of  or  thought 
possible  down  here.  For  to  those  who  count  '  all  things  '  but  dross 
and  dung  for  '  the  excellency  of  the  knowledge  of  Christ  Jesus 
our  Lord,'  He  does  manifest  Himself  in  such  sort  that  they  are 
not  inclined  to  rue  their  bargain.  If,  after  prayerfully  consider- 
ing the  matter,  you  stiU  feel  drawn  to  engage  in  such  work,  I 
shall  be  only  too  glad  to  hear  from  you  again." 

Young  men  and  women  who  came  to  Pyrland  Road  on 
probation,  encouraged  rather  than  daunted  by  the  spirit  of 
the  above  letter,  soon  found  occasion  to  rejoice  in  God  as 
the  Hearer  and  Answerer  of  prayer.  Such,  for  example,  was 
the  experience  in  May  that  followed  the  sailing  of  Mr. 
George  King  for  China.  It  had  been  difficult  to  spare  him  ; 
for,  busy  though  he  was  in  the  city  during  the  day,  he  had 
been  one  of  Mr.  Taylor's  most  faithful  helpers  both  before 
and  after  office  hours. 

"  Perhaps  the  Lord  will  lessen  the  amount  of  cone- 


270         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

spondence  for  a  time,"  said  the  latter,  '*  unless  He  sends  us 
unexpected  help." 

The  correspondence  lessened.  Mr.  King  sailed  on  the 
15th,  and  for  a  week  or  two  the  work  was  so  far  reduced  as 
to  continue  manageable. 

On  the  morning  of  the  25th,  however,  when  the  household 
gathered  for  noonday  prayer,  Mr.  Taylor  called  attention 
to  the  fact  that  this  lessening  of  correspondence  had  involved 
a  lessening  of  contributions  also. 

"  Let  us  ask  the  Lord,"  he  suggested,  "  to  remind  some 
of  His  wealthy  stewards  of  the  needs  of  the  work." 

Casting  up  the  amounts  received  from  the  4th  to  the 
24th  of  the  month,  he  found  that  they  came  to  a  little  over 
sixty-eight  pounds. 

'*  This  is  nearly  £235  less  than  our  average  expenditure 
in  China  for  three  weeks,"  he  added.  "  Let  us  bring  the 
matter  to  the  Lord  in  prayer." 

The  answer  was  not  long  delayed.  That  very  evening 
the  postman  brought  a  letter  which  was  found  to  contain  a 
cheque  to  be  entered  "  From  the  sale  of  plate,"  and  the  sum 
thus  realised  and  sent  to  the  Mission  was  £235  17:9.  Little 
wonder  that  prayer  was  turned  to  praise  at  the  next  noon 
hour,  or  that  Mr.  Taylor  in  telling  the  facts  could  not  help 
exclaiming,  "  Trust  in  Him  at  all  times,  and  you  will  never 
be  disappointed  !  "  ^ 

Quite  as  remarkable  was  another  experience  that  soon 
followed.  It  was  early  in  June,  and  Mr.  Taylor  was  re- 
turning from  Brighton,  where  he  had  taken  part  in  a  memor- 
able Convention  on  Scriptural  Holiness.  Waiting  for  his 
train  at  the  station,  he  was  accosted  by  a  Russian  nobleman 
who  had  been  attending  the  meetings,  and  who  on  learning 
that  Mr.  Taylor  was  going  to  London  suggested  that  they 
should  find  seats  together. 

"  But  I  am  travelling  third  class,"  said  the  missionary. 
\      "  My  ticket  admits  of  my  doing  the  same,"  was  the 
courteous  reply.     And  they  seem  to  have  found  a  carriage 

*  "  What  a  life  of  praise  and  joy  and  rest,"  he  wrote  a  few  weeks  later, 
"  we  should  all  lead,  did  we  but  fully  believe  in  God's  wisdom  and  love, 
and,  gladly  acquiescing  in  His  will  and  way,  cast  every  care  on  Him  in 
trustful  prayer." — China's  Millions  for  August  1875. 


OUT  OF  WEAKNESS  WERE  MADE  STRONG  271 

alone  together,  for  presently  Count  Bobrinsky  took  out  his 
pocket-book  with  the  words  : 

"  Allow  me  to  give  you  a  trifle  toward  your  work  in 
China/' 

Glancing  at  the  bank-note  as  he  received  it,  Mr.  Taylor 
felt  there  must  be  some  mistake — it  was  for  no  less  than 
fifty  pounds. 

"  Did  you  not  mean  to  give  me  five  pounds  ?  "  he  said 
at  once.     "  Please  let  me  return  this  note  :  it  is  for  fifty." 

"  I  cannot  take  it  back,"  repHed  the  other,  no  less  sur- 
prised. "  It  was  five  pounds  I  meant  to  give,  but  God 
must  have  intended  you  to  have  fifty  ;  I  cannot  take  it 
back." 

Impressed  with  the  incident,  Mr.  Taylor  reached  Pyrland 
Road  to  find  a  prayer  meeting  going  on.  A  remittance  was 
alDout  to  be  sent  to  China,  and  the  money  in  hand  was  short 
by  £4g  :  iis.  of  the  sum  it  was  felt  would  be  required.  This 
deficiency  was  not  accepted  as  inevitable.  On  the  contrary, 
it  called  together  those  who  knew  of  it  for  special  prayer. 
£4g  :  iis.  was  being  asked  for  in  simple  faith,  and  there 
upon  the  ofiice  table  Mr.  Taylor  laid  his  precious  bank-note 
for  fifty  pounds.  Could  it  have  come  more  directly  from 
the  Heavenly  Father's  hand  ?  "  Whoso  is  wise  and  will 
observe  these  things,  even  they  shall  understand  the  loving- 
kindness  of  the  Lord." 

No  less  encouraging  to  faith  was  the  widespread  interest 
aroused  in  a  new  departure  connected  with  the  outgoing  of 
the  Eighteen.  Even  the  Council,  meeting  at  Mr.  Taylor's 
bedside,  had  been  startled  by  his  revival  of  a  plan  to  which 
in  earlier  years  he  had  given  much  consideration — that  of 
obtaining  access  to  Western  China  (the  far  inland  provinces) 
by  way  of  Burma  and  the  Irrawaddy.  At  that  time  it  had 
been  abandoned  as  premature,  but  now  unexpected  develop- 
ments brought  it  again  to  mind.  The  British  Government, 
seeking  to  develop  trade  with  Western  China,  was  about  to 
send  an  exploring  party  to  the  mountainous  region  lying 
beyond  Bhamo  on  the  upper  waters  of  the  Irrawaddy. 
Only  a  hundred  miles,   traversed  by  frequent  caravans, 


272         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

separated  that  frontier  town  from  the  Chinese  province  of 
Yiin-nan  ;  and  Mr.  Taylor  was  surprised  to  find,  in  an 
unknown  visitor  shown  up  to  his  room  one  day,  a  traveller 
who  had  himself  taken  the  journey.  Conversation  with 
this  gentleman  assured  him  that  Bhamo,  with  its  large 
resident  as  well  as  floating  population  of  Chinese,  would  be 
an  admirable  centre  from  which  to  reach  the  western 
provinces.  Remarkably  enough,  Mr.  Stevenson,  who  had 
shared  Mr.  Taylor's  interest  in  the  matter  ten  years  previ- 
ously, was  again  in  England.  So  important  did  it  seem  to 
obtain  direct  access  to  those  great  regions  not  for  trade  only 
but  for  the  Gospel,  that  he  was  wilhng  to  forgo  the  joy  of 
returning  to  his  own  stations  for  the  time  being,  that  he 
might  establish  a  branch  of  the  Mission  at  Bhamo,  D.V., 
for  this  purpose.  This  was  the  proposal  that  startled  the 
Council,  coming  at  a  time  when  there  seemed  little  hope  of 
Mr.  Taylor's  ever  being  more  than  an  invalid.  But  so 
earnestly  did  he  plead  the  cause  upon  his  heart  that  they 
were  not  only  brought  to  his  point  of  view,  but  one  of  the 
Hon.  Secretaries,  Mr.  Henry  Soltau,  himself  volunteered  to 
accompany  Mr.  Stevenson  in  his  difficult  if  not  hazardous 
undertaking. 

Farewell  meetings,  in  many  places  addressed  by  Mr. 
Stevenson  and  Mr.  Soltau,  called  forth  a  volume  of  prayer, 
and  brought  the  Mission  and  its  objects  once  more  into 
prominence.^  Very  readable  letters  telling  of  their  voyage 
to  Burma  and  progress  up  the  beautiful  Irrawaddy  to 
Mandalay,  the  capital  of  the  despotic  native  king,  and  his 
remarkable  friendliness  in  granting  them  an  interview  and 
permission  to  reside  at  Bhamo,  where  there  were  at  that 
time  no  foreigners,  deepened  the  interest.  And  with  this 
may  be  connected  a  characteristic  move  on  Mr.  Taylor's 
part,  by  which  he  was  enabled  to  make  the  most  of  these 
communications.     For  the  spring  of  this  year  (March  1875) 

1  To  one  of  the  missionaries  in  China  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  at  the  end 
of  February:  "You  will  have  heard  that  Mr.  Stevenson  sails,  D.V., 
March  30,  for  Bhamo — via  Rangoon,  Burma — to  open  a  new  mission 
there,  before  returning  to  Shao-hing.  Pray  much  for  this  mission  to 
Western  China.  It  is  giving  a  wonderful  impetus  to  interest  in  the  whote 
work." 


OUT  OF  WEAKNESS  WERE  MADE  STRONG  273 

saw  the  last  number  of  the  Httle  quarterly,  which  had  told 
the  story  of  God's  gracious  dealings  with  the  Mission  from 
its  commencement.  New  wine  must  have  new  bottles, 
and  all  the  life  and  blessing  that  had  come  with  the  appeal 
for  the  Eighteen  needed  more  adequate  representation. 
This  Mr.  Taylor  saw  ;  and  though  it  meant  taking  upon  him- 
self, in  his  poor  health,  the  burden  of  an  illustrated  monthly, 
he  sought  strength  for  this  also  as  part  of  the  service  to 
which  his  life  was  given. 

But  it  was  a  great  undertaking ;  for  those  were  not  the 
days  of  illustrated  papers  such  as  we  have  now,  and  China's 
Millions  when  it  appeared  was  quite  an  innovation.^  Its 
up-to-date  articles  and  pictures,  when  Burma  was  occupying 
a  good  deal  of  public  attention  ;  its  Chinese  stories  brightly 
translated  for  young  people,  and  full-page  texts  with  floral 
designs  for  children  to  colour  on  Sundays  ;  its  news  of  pioneer 
journeys,  and  of  conversions  and  progress  in  the  older 
stations  ;  and  above  all  its  spiritually  helpful  articles  from 
Mr.  Taylor's  pen  came  to  be  looked  for  by  friends  old  and 
new. 

"  I  vividly  recall,"  wrote  one  of  the  young  candidates,  him- 
self the  Editor  of  the  Life  of  Faith  in  later  years,  "  Mr.  Taylor's 
intense  and  eager  interest  in  the  first  proof." 

Another,  whose  abounding  energy  placed  him  in  the  van 
as  a  pioneer  in  the  unopened  provinces,  told  of  the  joy  with 
which  Mr.  Taylor  received  the  first  completed  number. 

"  I  sold  six  the  day  it  came  out  to  a  bookseller  near  Bow 
Station,"  was  his  lively  recollection,  "  and  disposed  of  many 
outside  Moody  and  Sankey's  great  hall  near  by.  The  newsboys 
did  not  get  hold  of  the  title  very  well — they  used  to  shout, 
'  Chinese  Millions,  a  penny  1'  " 

The  work  involved  in  addressing  and  wrapping  copies 
for  the  post  was  recalled  by  yet  another — first  of  the  pioneers 
to  settle  in  the  province  of  Kwei-chow,  and  subsequently  the 
valued  Treasurer  of  the  Mission  in  China. 

We  thought  it  a  fine  paper  in  those  days.     It  was  a  great 


1  To  Mrs.  Hudson  Taylor  the  Mission  was  indebted  for  this  title,  its 
first  form  being,  China's  Millions  and  Our  Work  among  Them. 

T 


274         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

business  sending  it  out  to  everybody  !  There  was  no  publica- 
tion department  then,  or  for  long  after  ;  no  department,  indeed, 
of  any  kind  outside  Mr.  Taylor's  busy  room. 

So  wonderfully  was  the  health  of  the  latter  restored  in 
answer  to  prayer,  that  he  was  able  for  an  astonishing  amount 
of  work.  A  brief  holiday  taken  in  August  to  join  his  children 
in  Guernsey  was  spent  almost  entirely  in  writing.  Though 
longing  to  share  with  them  the  delights  of  that  beautiful 
coast,  he  only  managed  to  get  out  once  during  his  stay  of  a 
fortnight ;  but  the  letters  he  despatched  to  China  and  else- 
where were  worth  their  weight  in  gold. 

"  I  am  thankful  to  be  able  to  send  you  ninety  dollars/'  he 
wrote  to  one  of  the  younger  members  of  the  Mission.^  "  The 
Lord  does  provide,  does  He  not  ?  How  blessed  it  is  to  trust  in 
Him  !  It  is  far  happier  to  want,  trusting  Him,  than  to  be  richly 
supplied,  leaning  on  supplies  rather  than  on  the  Supplier.  I  find 
this  life  happier  every  year,  though  not  less  trying  to  faith. 

"  You  will  find  the  dear  native  helpers  improve  on  acquaint- 
ance, I  trust.  They  need  our  energy  and  faith  to  help  them; 
we,  divine  hfe  and  power.  Read  the  Word  with  much  prayer 
with  them,  dear  Brother.  Hold  much  holy  communion  with 
our  Lord.  Feed  on  the  living  Word  ;  and  when  you  find  it 
marrow  and  f atnt^ss  to  your  soul,  tell  them  what  you  are  finding 
there.  Oh  !  you  will  find  it  a  blessed  and  holy  service ;  a 
fruitful  and  happy  calling.  You  will  not  be  kept  long  sowing 
thus  before  you  are  rejoicing  over  the  first-fruits  of  the  harvest." 

Work  as  he  might,  however,  he  could  not  write  personally 
to  all  the  members  of  the  Mission,  though  all  were  so  trul}' 
upon  his  heart.  He  had  to  content  himself  with  a  circular 
letter  sent  off  on  his  return  to  London,  in  which  he  sought 
to  share  with  them  some  of  the  precious  lessons  learned  in 
weakness  and  suffering. 

*'  It  is  nearly  twelve  months,"  he  wrote  on  the  26th  of  August, 
*'  since  I  sailed  from  China,  and  ten  since  I  reached  England.  Few 
have  been  the  letters  I  have  written  to  you,  but  every  day  of 
this  time  you  have  been  on  my  heart.  Usually  not  once  nor 
twice  daily  but  oftentimes  have  you  and  your  circumstances, 
sphere  of  labour  and  surroundings,  as  far  as  known  to  me,  been 

*  From  a  letter  to  Mr.  (afterwards  Dr.)  Douthwaite,  who  was  taking 
op  settled  work  in  Chii-chow  Fu,  near  the  Kiang-si  border  of  Che-kiang. 


OUT  OF  WEAKNESS  WERE  MADE  STRONG  275 

remembered  and  commended  to  God.  I  wish  it  were  possible 
to  write  to  each  one  of  you  more  frequently  and  at  length  ;  but 
I  take  comfort  in  the  thought  that  you  all  know  me,  and  know 
that  I  am  at  work  for  you  and  for  China  to  the  full  extent  of  my 
ability.  May  God  bless  you  all  and  each  of  those  dear  to  you  ; 
bless  and  prosper  the  work  He  has  given  you,  and  in  due  time 
make  it  manifest  that  He  has  been  working  in  and  through  you. 

"  When  I  came  home,  I  hoped  to  have  done  much  for  China. 
God  soon  put  that  out  of  the  question,  as  you  know,  and  for 
many  long  months  there  was  little  I  could  do  but  pray.  And 
what  has  been  the  result  ?  Far  more  has  been  done  hy  God, 
far  more  is  bemg  done,  far  more  will  be  done  hy  Him  than  my 
most  sanguine  hopes  ventured  to  anticipate. 

"  And  shall  we  learn  no  lesson  from  this  ?  Shall  we  not 
each^ne  of  us  determine  to  labour  more  in  prayer  ;  to  cultivate 
more  intimate  "commuiiiofr with' God  by  His  help  ;  thinking  less 
ogour  working  and  more  of  His  working,  that  He  may  in  very 
deed  be  glorified  in  and  through  us  ?  If  we  can  and  will  do  this, 
I  am  quite  sure  that  ere  long  there  will  be  ahundaitt  evidence  of 
it  in  the  improved  state  of  our  congregations  and  churches, 
in  the  preparedness  of  the  people  for  the  message,  and  in  the 
power  with  which  it  is  delivered.  More  souls  will  be  saved ; 
the  believers  will  lead  more  holy  lives,  and  our  own  knowledge 
of  God  and  joy  in  Him  will  be  multiphed.  Surely  we  ought  to 
lead  beautiful  lives,  glorious  lives,  if  we  are  really  with  Him  Who 
is  Chiefest  among  Ten  Thousand,  the  Altogether  Lovely  !  *  The 
people  that  do  know  their  God  shall  be  strong  and  do  exploits.'  " 


CHAPTER  XIX 

THE  FAITHFULNESS  OF  GOD 
1875-1876.     Aet.  43-44. 

r^'  There  are  commonly  three  stages  in  work  for  God/' 
;    Mr.  Taylor  would  sometimes  say :    **  first  impossible,  then 
'    difficult,   then   done."    The   project   of  reaching  the  nine 
^'unopened  provinces  with  the  Gospel  had  not  yet  passed 
beyond  the  first  stage.     It  was  still,  to  all  appearances, 
impossible.     Despite  the  stipulations  of  the  Treaty  of  Tien- 
tsin, ratified  as  early  as  i860,  the  interior  was  inaccessible 
as  ever.     Passports,  besides  being  practically  unobtainable, 
meant  little  or  nothing  of  protection,  and  the  European  who 
would  venture  far  from  the  beaten  track  had  to  take  his  life 
in  his  hand.     As  an  evidence  of  the  almost  insurmountable 
obstacles,  one  has  but  to  recall  that  after  nearly  seventy 
years  of  work  in  China,  Protestant  missions  were  still  con- 
fined to  few,   very  few  centres — thirty-nine  stations  only 
being  occupied  by  the  representatives  of  all  societies. 

"  To  some  it  may  seem  almost  incredible,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote 
in  an  early  number  of  China's  Millions,  "  that  outside  the  thirty- 
nine  places  named  on  the  page  opposite  there  is  not  one  Pro- 
testant missionary  to  be  found  in  any  of  the  thousands  of  Cliinese 
cities,  in  any  of  the  tens  of  thousands  of  large  towns,  or  in  any 
of  the  hundreds  of  thousands  of  villages,  with  their  millions  of 
perishing  inhabitants.     Yet  such,  alas,  is  the  case." 

And,  strangely  enough,  even  since  the  appeal  for  the 
Eighteen  the  situation  had  become  decidedly  more  difficult. 
For  the  British  exploring  party  sent  to  open  up  communica- 
tion with  Western  China  had  met  with  tragic  disaster.     On 

276 


THE  FAITHFULNESS  OF  GOD  277 

the  mountainous  frontier  of  Yiin-nan,  a  member  of  the 
expedition,  Mr.  Augustus  Margary,  had  been  treacherously 
murdered  with  the  connivance  of  the  Chinese  authorities, 
and  the  latter  would  give  neither  apology  nor  the  reparation 
international  justice  required.  As  month  by  month  the 
negotiations  were  prolonged  at  Peking,  relations  became 
increasingly  strained  in  high  places,  which  meant  that 
foreigners  were  in  added  disfavour  all  over  China.  It 
certainly  was  not  the  moment,  as  far  as  human  probabiHties 
were  concerned,  for  anything  hke  advance.  And  yet  the 
appeal  for  eighteen  pioneers  had  gone  out ;  the  men  were 
being  given  ;  and,  "  assuredly  gathering  "  that  the  Lord's 
time  had  come,  faith  was  strong  in  many  hearts. 

In  the  first  issue  of  China's  Millions  (July  1875)  Mr. 
Taylor  had  written  on  this  subject : 

It  was  nine  years  on  the  26th  of  May  since  the  Lammermuir 
party  sailed  for  China.  .  .  .  We  have  needed  all  the  time  since 
then  to  gain  experience  and  to  gather  round  us  a  staff  of  native 
workers,  through  whose  aid  we  are  occupying  some  fifty  stations 
and  out-stations  in  five  provinces.  We  believe,  however,  that 
the  time  has  come  for  doing  more  fully  what  the  Master  com- 
manded us ;  and  by  His  grace  we  intend  to  do  it — not  to  try, 
for  we  see  no  scriptural  authority  for  trying.  (  "  Try  "  is  a  word 
constantly  on  the  lips  of  unbelievers.  "  We  must  do  what  we 
can,"  they  say  ;  and  too  often  the  same  attitude  is  taken  up 
by  the  child  of  God.  In  our  experience,  to  try  has  usually 
meant  to  fail.  The  Lord's  word  in  reference  to  His  various  com- 
mands is  not  "  Do  your  best,"  but  "Do  it  "  ;  that  is,  do  the  thing 
commanded. J  We  are  therefore  making  arrangements  for  com- 
mencing wofK  in  each  of  these  nine  provinces — without  haste, 
for  "  he  that  beheveth  shall  not  make  haste,"  but  also  without 
unnecessaiy  delay.  ..."  If  ye  be  willing  and  obedient,  ye 
shall  eat  of  the  good  of  the  land."  "  Whatsoever  He  saith  unto 
you,  do  it." 

Among  the  "  treasures  of  darkness  "  that  had  come  to 
Mr.  Taylor  in  1870  had  been  a  new  conception  of  the  scope 
and  meaning  of  faith,  upon  which  a  flood  of  hght  had  been 
thrown  by  a  passage  in  his  Greek  Testament.  A  letter  to 
Mrs.  Berger  toward  the  close  of  that  year  of  bereavement 
(November  18)  showed  that  he  had  already  made  the  dis- 
covery which  was  to  be  a  mine  of  wealth  through  all  his 


278         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

later  life,  but  gave  no  clue  as  to  how  it  had  come  about. 
It  was  just  in  his  usual  reading,  as  he  often  related,  that  he 
was  struck  with  the  words,  "  Ekete  pistin  Theou.'*  How 
strangely  new  they  seemed  !  "Have  (or  hold)  the  faithful- 
ness of  God  "  :  surely  it  was  a  passage  he  had  never  seen 
before  ?  Turning  to  the  corresponding  words  in  English  he 
read  (Mark  xi.  22)  :  "  Have  faith  in  God."  Ah,  that  was 
familiar  enough  ;  and  something  within  him  whispered, 
**  the  old  difficulty  !  "  How  gladly  would  he  have  and 
increase  in  faith  in  God,  if  only  he  knew  how  !  But  this 
seemed  entirely  different.  It  laid  the  emphasis  on  another 
side  of  the  matter  in  a  way  he  found  surprisingly  helpful. 
It  was  not  *'  have  "  in  your  own  heart  and  mind,  however 
you  can  get  it,  "  faith  in  God,"  but  simply  "  hold  fast,  count 
upon  His  faithfulness  "  ;  and  different  indeed  he  saw  the 
one  to  be  from  the  other*  ^  Not  my  faith  but  God's  faithful- 
ness— what  a  rest  it  was  ! 

And  now,  just  five  years  later,  the  subject  was  filling  his 
mind  as  he  faced  the  seemingly  impossible  situation  before 
the  Mission.  He  knew  that  the  impossibility  was  only 
seeming,  and  for  his  editorials  in  the  new  magazine  had 
chosen  the  title  "  China  for  Christ."  In  the  fourth  of  these 
papers,  which  dwelt  upon  the  definite  plan  before  the  Mission 
for  evangelising  all  the  inland  provinces,  he  wrote  (November 

1875) : 

Want  of  trust  is  at  the  root  of  almost  all  our  sins  and  all  our 
weaknesses  ;  and  how  shall  we  escape  it  but  by  looking  to  Him 
and  observing  His  faithfulness  ?  .  .  .  The  man  who  holds 
God's  faithfulness  will  not  be  foolhardy  or  reckless,  but  he  will 
be  ready  for  every  emergency.  The  man  who  holds  God's  faith- 
fulness will  dare  to  obey  Him,  however  impolitic  it  may  appear. 

*  As  to  the  correctness  of  this  modified  translation,  Mr.  Taylor  noted  : 
"  For  the  rendering  '  God's  faithfulness,'  see  Rom.  iii.  3,  where  '  the  faith 
of  God  '  evidently  means  His  faithfulness.  The  verb  translated  '  hold,' 
is  thus  rendered  in  Matt.  xxi.  26,  '  all  hold  John  as  a  prophet.'  In  the 
corresponding  passage  in  Mark  xi.  32,  it  is  rendered  '  count '  ;  and  in  that 
in  Luke  xx.  6,  a  different  Greek  verb  is  used,  which  well  illustrates  the 
meaning,  '  They  be  persuaded  that  John  was  a  prophet.'  Let  us  see  that 
in  theory  we  hold  that  God  is  faithful ;  that  in  daily  life  we  count  upon 
it ;  and  that  at  all  times  and  under  all  circumstances  we  are  fully  per- 
suaded of  this  blessed  truth." 


THE  FAITHFULNESS  OF  GOD  279 

Abraham  held  God's  faithfulness  and  offered  up  Isaac,  "  account- 
ing that  God  was  able  to  raise  him  from  the  dead."     Moses  held 
God's  faithfulness  and  led  the  millions  of  Israel  into  the  waste, 
howHng  wilderness.     Joshua  knew  Israel  well,  and  was  ignorant 
neither  of  the  fortifications  of  the  Canaanites  nor  of  their  martial 
prowess,  but  he  held  God's  faithfulness  and  led  Israel  across 
the   Jordan.  .  .  .  The    Apostles   held   God's   faithfulness,    and 
were  not  daunted  by  the  hatred  of  the  Jews  or  the  hostihty  of 
the  heathen.  ...     "  And  what  shall  I  more  say  ?    for  the  time 
would  fail  me  to  tell  "  of  those  who,  holding  God's  faithfulness, 
had  faith,  and  by  it  "  subdued  kingdoms,  wrought  righteousness, 
obtained   promises  .  .  .  out    of   weakness   were   made   strong, 
waxed  vahant  in  fight,  turned  to  flight  the  armies  of  the  aHens  ? '' 
Satan,  too,  has  his  creed  :  Doubt  God's  Faithfulness.     "  Hath 
God  said  ?     Are  you  not  mistaken  as  to  His  commands  ?     He 
could  not  really  mean  just  that.     You  take  an  extreme  view, 
^4iYfi_to_o  literal  a  meaning  to  the  words."  .  .  .  How  constantly,' 
and,  alas,  how  successfully  are  such  arguments  used  to  prevent 
whole-hearted  trust  in  God,  whole-hearted  consecration  to  God  ! 
.  .  .  How  many  estimate  difficulties  in  the  light  of  their  own 
resources,  and  thus  attempt  little  and  often  fail  in  the  httlethey 
attempt  L    All  God's  giants  have  been  weak  men,  who  did  great 
things  for  God  because  they  reckoned  on  His  being  with  them. 

^  Oh  !  beloved  friends,  if  there  is  a  Hving  God,  faithful  and 
tri^,  letjis  hold Jlis  faithfulness^  .  .  .  Holding  His  faithfulness, 
we  may  go  into  every  province  of  China.  ^Holding  His  faithful- 
ness, we  may  face  with  calm  and  sober  but  confident  assurance 
of  victory  every  difficulty  and  danger ;  we  may  count  on  grace 
for  the  work,  on  pecuniary  aid,  on  needful  facihties,  and  on 
ultimate  success.  Let  us  not  give  Him  a  partial  trust,  but  daily, 
hourly  serve  Him,  counting  on  His  faithfulness.  \  ...  ^  ."  - 

For  ten  years  this  had  been,  in  the  main,  the  attitude  of 
the  Mission,  when  in  the  spring  of  1876  the  first  anniversary 
services  were  held  to  report  progress.  Mr.  Taylor  was  by 
this  time  well  enough  to  move  about  with  the  help  of  a 
strong  walking-stick,  and  the  new,  young,  earnest  life  that 
had  come  into  the  work  with  the  outgoing  pioneers  was  felt 
by  all  its  friends  and  supporters.  No  more  striking  evidence 
could  have  been  given  of  the  place  it  was  coming  to  hold  in 
the  sympathies  of  the  Lord's  people  than  the  large  and 
representative  gatherings  that  filled  the  Mildmay  Con- 
ference Hall.     But  remarkable  as  were  the  meetings,  how 


280         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

little  could  the  speakers  really  tell  of  all  that  had  filled  those 
first  ten  years — all  that  had  been  experienced  of  the  love 
and  faithfulness  of  God  !  Statistics  are  not  without  their 
meaning,  however,  and  it  was  with  joy  Mr.  Taylor  pointed 
out  on  the  large  map  twenty-eight  stations  in  five  provinces 
in  which  churches  had  been  gathered — six  hundred  converts 
having  been  baptized  from  the  beginning.  Of  these,  more 
than  seventy  were  devoting  their  lives  to  making  known  the 
Gospel,  and  in  them  lay  the  chief  hope  of  the  future,  specially 
as  regarded  the  evangehsation  of  the  unreached  interior. 
Sixty-eight  missionaries  had  been  sent  to  China,  of  whom 
fifty- two  were  still  connected  with  the  Mission.  Means  for 
their  support  had  never  failed — though  that  also  which  is 
**  more  precious  than  gold  "  had  not  been  lacking — *'  the 
trial  of  your  faith.'*  Without  a  collection  or  an  appeal  of 
any  kind  for  funds,  fifty-two  thousand  pounds  had  been 
received,  and  the  Mission  was  not  and  never  had  been  in  debt.^ 
How  much  of  prayer  and  practical  self-denial  lay  behind 
these  facts  the  Report  did  not  reveal,  but  the  candidates  at 
Pyrland  Road  could  have  supplied  some  details  not  lacking 
in  interest.  Preparing,  themselves,  to  face  danger  and 
sacrifice  in  the  work  to  which  the  Lord  was  calling  them, 
it  meant  everything  to  have  the  encouragement  of  their 
leader's  example.  In  him  they  found  faith,  not  as  a  finished 
product  to  be  obtained  they  knew  not  how,  but  as  a  practical, 
growing  experience.  They  could  see  his  faith  lay  hold  upon 
God  more  and  more,  see  him  daily  pay  the  price  of  spiritual 
power  and  fruitfulness. 

*'  It  was  a  great  delight  to  be  with  him  in  those  days,"  said 
Mr.  Broumton.  "  He  used  to  call  East  on  and  me  to  his  room 
for  long  talks  about  China,  giving  us  advice  as  to  how  to  go 
about  our  pioneering  journeys,  with  many  an  illustration  from 
his  own  experience.  His  interest  in  the  outgoing  of  the  Eighteen 
was  intense." 

1  "  We  have  never  had  to  leave  an  open  door  unentered  from  lack  of 
funds,"  said  Mr.  Taylor's  Report  on  this  occasion  ;  "  and  although  the 
last  penny  had  not  unfrequently  been  spent,  none  of  our  native  agents 
or  foreign  missionaries  have  ever  lacked  the  promised  '  daily  bread.' 
Times  of  trial  have  always  been  times  of  blessing,  and  needed  supplies 
have  never  failed  "  or  come  too  late. 


THE  FAITHFULNESS  OF  GOD  281 

Of  his  first  visit  to  Pyrland  Road,  while  Mr.  Taylor  was 
still  an  invalid,  another  wrote  :  ^ 

Who  that  has  known  it  can  ever  forget  his  bright,  winning 
greeting  ?  It  captivated  you  in  a  moment.  He  led  me  to  his 
study,  which  was  also  the  "  office  "  of  the  Mission.  It  was  the 
back  room  on  the  ground  floor,  and  could  be  entered  from  the 
front  sitting-room  by  large  folding  doors.  Shall  I  say  I  was 
shocked,  or  surprised,  or  both  ?  At  any  rate  I  had  an  absolutely 
novel  experience.  The  room  was  largely  occupied  with  packing- 
cases  and  some  rough  shelves  set  along  one  of  the  walls.  Near 
the  window,  which  looked  out  on  the  dreary  back-gardens,  was 
a  writing-table  Uttered  with  papers.  In  front  of  the  fireplace 
where  a  fender  is  usually  found  was  a  low,  narrow,  iron  bedstead, 
neatly  covered  with  a  rug — Mr.  Taylor's  chief  resting-place  by 
night  and  by  day.  I  hardly  think  there  was  a  scrap  of  carpet 
on  the  floor,  and  certainly  not  a  single  piece  of  furniture  that 
suggested  the  slightest  regard  for  comfort  or  appearances. 

Mr.  Taylor  offered  no  word  of  apology  or  explanation,  but 
lay  down  on  his  iron  bedstead  and  eagerly  plunged  into  a  con- 
versation, which  was,  for  me,  one  of  Hfe's  golden  hours.  Every 
idea  I^had  hitherto  cherished  of  a  "  great  man  "  was  completely 
shattered  :  the  high,  imposing  airs,  and  aU  the  trappings  were 
conspicuously  absent ;  but  Christ's  ideal  of  greatness  was  then 
and  there  so  securely  set  in  my  heart,  that  it  has  remained 
through  all  the  years,  up  to  this  moment.  I  strongly  suspect 
that,  by  his  unconscious  influence,  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor  did  more 
than  any  other  man  of  his  day  to  compel  Christian  people  to 
revise  their  ideas  of  greatness.  .  .  . 

I  "mention  these  details  because  they  throw  Ught  upon  some 
of  the  important  principles  upon  which  Mr.  Taylor  based  his 
life  and  service.  He  profoundly  reahsed  that  if  the  millions 
of  China  were  to  be  evangelised,  there  would  have  to  be  a  vast 
increase  in  self-denial  and  self-sacrifice  upon  the  part  of  Christians 
at  home.  But  how  could  he  ask  and  urge  others  to  do  what 
he  was  not  practising  himself  ?  So  he  deliberately  stripped  his 
life,  on  all  sides,  of  every  appearance  of  self-consideration  and 
self-indulgence.  .  .  . 

And  it  was  just  the  same  in  China ;  but  there  an  additional 
principle  came  into  action.  He  would  not  ask  those  who  worked 
with  him  to  face  hardships  he  himself  was  not  wiUing  to  endure. 
He  never  used  his  position  as  Director  of  the  Mission  to  purchase 
for  himself  the  least  advantage  or  ease.     He  made  it  his,  under 

^  The  Rev.  C.  G.  Moore,  for  many  years  a  member  of  the  China  Inland 
Mission. 


282         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

all  circumstances,  to  live  in  that  spirit  and  practice  of  self-sacrifice 
which  he  expected  to  find  in  his  brethren  on  the  field.  However 
hard  his  lot  might  be  in  China,  every  missionary  knew  that  Mr. 
Taylor  had  suffered  in  the  same  way,  and  was  ready  to  do  so 
again.  No  man  could  suspect,  at  any  time,  that  while  he  him- 
self was  bearing  the  cross,  his  leader,  under  more  favourable 
circumstances,  was  shirking  it.  Herein  was  one  explanation 
of  the  remarkable  and  affectionate  attachment  to  Mr.  Taylor 
on  the  part  of  so  many  in  the  Mission. 

And  now  he  was  going  back — back  to  China  to  speed  the 
pioneers,  as  he  fully  hoped  and  expected,  on  their  far  inland 
journeys.  A  gracious  answer  to  the  prayers  of  many  years 
had  made  this  possible,  in  the  coming  of  his  beloved  sister 
and  her  husband,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  B.  Broomhall,  into  the  home 
department  of  the  work.  Long  before  the  Mission  came 
into  existence  he  had  written  to  them  from  China  (June 
i860)  : 

I  have  not  given  up  hope  of  seeing  you  ...  I  beheve  you 
will  yet  come.  I  beheve  you  will  be  sent  by  God.  And  a  happy 
work  you  will  find  it.  We  have  only  the  Lord  to  look  to  for 
means,  for  health,  for  encouragement — and  we  need  no  other. 
He  gives  us  all ;   and  He  best  knows  what  we  need. 

How  real  was  the  faith  involved  in  joining  the  Mission, 
when  at  length  the  way  opened,  may  be  judged  from  the 
fact  that  they  had  by  that  time  a  family  of  ten  growing 
boys  and  girls.  But  this  was  perhaps  one  of  their  chief 
quahfications.  What  hearts  are  so  large  and  what  hands 
so  free  for  others  as  those  filled  with  love  and  service  in 
which  self  has  no  part.  Number  2  Pyrland  Road,  which 
became  the  home  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Broomhall,  soon  radiated 
an  atmosphere  of  helpfulness,  spiritually  and  in  other  ways, 
that  made  it  for  many  a  long  year  the  best  loved  centre 
of  the  Mission.  Number  6  was  still  Mr.  Taylor's  home, 
but  the  two  were  practically  thrown  into  one,  the  intervening 
house  being  occupied  for  offices  and  candidates.  Mr.  Taylor's 
little  back  room  was  now  exchanged  for  a  more  cheerful 
study,  and  a  Secretary  was  installed  in  the  person  of  Mr. 
WiUiam  Soltau,  who  took  over  much  of  his  work.  Barely 
waiting  to  see  these  arrangements  completed,  however,  and 


THE  FAITHFULNESS  OF  GOD  283 

to  give  time  for  the  preparation  of  the  party  of  eight  who 
sailed  with  him,  Mr.  Taylor  set  out  early  in  September 
(1876),  notwithstanding  the  war-cloud  that  hung  heavily 
over  the  eastern  horizon. 

For  the  negotiations  that  had  dragged  on  so  long  at 
Peldng  had  come  at  last  to  a  stalemate.  Nothing  would 
induce  the  Chinese  Government  to  give  satisfaction  of  any 
sort  for  the  murder  of  Mr.  Margary  ;  and  the  British  Am- 
bassador, having  exhausted  diplomatic  resources,  was  on  the 
point  of  retiring  to  the  coast  to  put  the  matter  into  the  hands 
of  the  Admiral.  It  seemed  impossible  that  war  could  be 
averted,  and  there  were  many  among  the  friends  of  the 
Mission  who  strongly  advised  against  Mr.  Taylor's  going  out. 

"  You  will  all  have  to  return,'*  thej^  said.  "  And  as  to 
sending  off  pioneers  to  the  more  distant  provinces,  it  is 
simply  out  of  the  question." 

It  was  indeed  a  critical  juncture.  After  years  of  prayer 
and  preparation,  evangelists  for  the  unentered  provinces 
had  been  given  ;  had  gone  to  China,  and  having  acquired 
some  knowledge  of  the  language  were  ready  to  set  forth. 
Could  it  be  that  the  iron  gate  of  the  last  ward — having 
opened  thus  far — was  again  to  close,  leaving  the  prayer  of 
faith  unanswered  ?  Mr.  Taylor  did  not  think  so.  Indeed 
he  felt  as  sure  that  God's  time  had  come,  as  he  was  that  the 
men  had  been  given.  He  was  fully  aware  that  in  event  of 
war,  not  the  pioneers  only,  but  all  his  fellow-workers  might 
have  to  leave  their  inland  stations.  That  matters  could  not 
look  more  threatening  was  obvious.  Even  before  he  sailed, 
though  this  he  may  not  have  heard,  Mr.  Thomas  Wade  had 
actually  left  Peking  to  make  way  for  the  commencement  of 
hostilities.  Every  effort  had  failed,  and  a  war  that  might 
close  the  country  entirely  to  missionary  effort  was  all  but 
begun. 

But  no,  prayer  had  not  failed.  In  the  third-class  cabin 
of  the  French  Mail,  as  in  the  prayer  meetings  at  Pyrland 
Road,  fervent  supplication  was  going  up  to  God  that  He 
would  overrule  the  crisis  for  the  furtherance  of  His  own 
great  ends.  With  Him  it  is  never  too  late.  At  the  last 
moment,  utterly  improbable  as  it  seemed,  a  change  came 


284         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

over  the  Peking  Foreign  Office.  More  alive  to  the  situation 
than  his  fellows,  the  Viceroy  Li  Hung-chang  hurried  to  the 
coast,  overtaking  the  British  Ambassador  just  in  time  to 
reopen  negotiations  ;  and  there,  at  Chefoo,  was  signed  the 
memorable  Convention  which  threw  open  the  door  of  access 
at  last  to  the  remotest  parts  of  China.  This  was  the  news 
that  awaited  Mr.  Taylor  on  his  arrival  in  Shanghai,  the 
agreement  having  been  signed  within  a  week  of  his  leaving 
England ;  and  already  three  parties  of  the  Eighteen  had 
set  out  and  were  well  on  their  way  to  the  interior. 

"  Just  as  our  brethren  were  ready,"  he  wrote,  "  not  too  soon 
and  not  too  late  the  long-closed  door  opened  to  them  of  its  own 
accord." 


CHAPTER  XX 

THE   GATES   OF  THE   WEST 
1876-1877.     Aet.  44-45. 

And  what  were  the  provisions  of  that  notable  Convention 
signed  at  Chefoo  on  September  13,  1876  ?  As  concerned 
the  pioneers  simply  these  :  that  foreigners  were  at  Uberty 
to  travel  in  any  part  of  the  Emperor's  dominions  ;  that  they 
did  so  under  his  protection,  and  were  to  be  received  with 
respect  and  in  no  wise  hindered  on  their  journeys.  Imperial 
proclamations  were  to  be  posted  in  every  city,  giving 
publicity  to  these  arrangements  ;  and  for  a  period  of  two 
years  British  officials  might  be  sent  inland,  specially  to  see 
that  this  clause  was  carried  out.  As  a  matter  of  fact, 
representatives  of  the  C.I.M.  were  the  first,  and  for  years 
almost  the  only  foreigners,  to  avail  themselves  of  this  great 
opportunity.  Far  and  wide  they  travelled,  crossing  and 
recrossing  all  the  provinces  of  the  interior,  and  penetrating 
even  into  eastern  Tibet.  Thirty  thousand  miles  were  thus 
traversed  in  the  next  eighteen  months,  Scriptures  and  tracts 
being  ever3rwhere  sold  or  distributed,  and  friendly  relations 
almost  iminterruptedly  maintained.  At  first,  indeed,  the 
missionaries  were  supposed  to  be  Government  agents,  and 
their  arrival  spread  dismay  in  the  ofiicial  breast.  For  there 
had  been  no  unseemly  haste  in  issuing  the  proclamations ; 
and  more  than  one  Mandarin  hit  upon  the  happy  expedient 
of  entertaining  the  visitors  with  elaborate  hospitality, 
while  the  city  was  hurriedly  placarded  with  the  belated 
documents. 1 

^  From  the  distant  city  of  Si-an-fu,  capital  of  Shen-si,  Mr.  Easton 
wrote  on  his  first  journey  (Dec.  20,  1876)  :    "  At  every  city  and  village  of 

285 


286         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

It  must  not  be  supposed,  however,  that  the  pioneers  had 
a  bed  of  roses.  Though  the  attitude  of  the  Government 
was  favourable  for  the  time  being,  the  prejudices  of  the 
literati  were  unchanged,  and  the  difficulties  of  travel,  great 
and  small,  remained  the  same.  Wonderful  were  those 
journeys  with  their  new  experiences;  their  launching  out 
into  the  unknown,  their  fervent  love  for  souls,  their  brave 
endurance,  manifold  perils,  and  the  exercise  of  young  hearts 
cast  upon  God  !  Fain  would  we  follow  the  footsteps  of  the 
evangehsts,  see  with  their  eyes,  hear  with  their  ears,  live 
over  again  experiences  so  well  worth  while,  both  for  time 
and  for  eternity.  The  openness  of  the  people  and  their 
response  in  spiritual  things  was  what  impressed  them  most. 
Whether  it  were  Mr.  Judd  in  Hu-nan,  Henry  Taylor  in  Ho-nan, 
or  Easton  and  Parker  on  their  way  to  the  far  north-west, 
all  found  the  same  willingness  to  listen,  with  here  and  there 
a  deep  heart-hunger  in  some  who  were  seekers  after  truth. 

"  As  we  spoke  of  Jesus  and  His  sufferings  for  our  sin,"  Henry 
Taylor  wrote  on  his  journey  to  Ho-nan,  "  v/e  saw  tears  stealing 
down  some  faces.  The  women  go  in,  heart  and  soul,  for  idolatry, 
as  you  know,  but  still  find  their  hearts  unsatisfied  and  their 
minds  in  a  maze."  ' 

Fifty-six  days  were  spent,  even  on  this  first  journey,  in 
carts  and  inns,  on  foot  and  wheelbarrow,  passing  from  city 
to  city  through  the  southern  part  of  the  province,  where 
roads  were  roughest  and  accommodation  poorest,  and  where 
little  food  was  obtainable  beyond  steamed  bread  and  rice, 
or  coarse  home-made  vermicelli.  Starting  at  earhest  dawn, 
they  often  travelled  on  till  dark,  preaching  by  the  wayside 
or  in  crowded  streets,  everywhere  telling  the  glad  tidings  of 
Redeeming  Love.^ 

In  the  city  and  district  of  Ju-ning  several  earnest  in- 
quirers were  met  with— Wang,  the  young  school-master; 

any  size,  a  large  proclamation  from  the  Peking  Foreign  Office  makes  it 
easy  for  us  to  travel.  At  Shen-chow  we  first  noticed  it ;  the  ofl&cials 
putting  it  out  after  our  arrival,  and  being  very  polite  to  us." 

1  This  journey  and  another  taken  in  1875 — a  few  months  only  after 
the  murder  of  Margary— show  that  the  pioneers  who  were  ready  did  not 
wait  for  the  Chefoo  Convention,  or  any  other  Government  assistance, 
thankful  though  they  were  for  the  new  Treaty  when  it  came. 


THE  GATES  OF  THE  WEST  287 

Hu,  the  devout  vegetarian  ;  the  medicine  vendor  who  had 
no  cure  for  a  corrupt  heart ;  the  old  scholar,  who  humbly 
knelt,  the  first  time  he  ever  heard  of  Jesus,  to  ask  that  his 
sins  might  be  laid  upon  the  divine  Sacrifice,  and  who  seemed 
astonished  that  any  one  could  be  indifferent  to  the  good 
news  about  such  a  Saviour  ;  and  a  Mr.  Mu,  also  a  man  of 
letters,  in  whose  heart  there  was  an  evident  work  of  the 
Spirit  of  God.  Several  of  these  came  daily  to  read  and 
pray  with  the  missionary  and  his  Chinese  companion,  and 
Mr.  Mu  was  urgent  in  his  desire  to  be  baptized.  Only  the 
promise  that  they  would  come  again  in  a  few  months,  D.V., 
prevailed  upon  him  to  wait  until  he  could  learn  more  of 
what  it  really  meant  to  be  a  Christian. 

Later  journeys,  while  they  brought  encouragement  in 
finding  this  man  and  others  steadfast  in  the  faith,  brought 
also  perils  from  which  only  the  hand  of  God  could  have 
delivered.  Convinced  that  he  should  shorten  his  visit  to 
the  provincial  capital  (Kai-feng)  on  one  occasion,  Henry 
Taylor  left  a  day  or  two  eariier  than  he  had  intended.  Not 
until  months  later  did  he  learn  that  that  very  day  a  crowd 
of  students  had  come  to  the  inn,  and,  not  finding  him,  had 
torn  down  the  sign-board,  and  would  have  set  fire  to  the 
place  had  not  the  authorities  intervened.  They  had  bound 
themselves  by  an  oath  to  kill  the  foreigner,  and  had  been 
lying  in  wait  in  different  parts  of  the  city.  When  he  did 
not  appear  they  went  in  search  of  him,  and  their  rage  on 
learning  that  he  was  already  far  away  knew  no  bounds. 

Short  of  money  on  another  occasion,  he  sent  his  helper 
to  Hankow  for  silver,  waiting  his  return  in  an  inn.  To  his 
surprise  a  proclamation  presently  appeared,  forbidding  any 
one  on  pain  of  the  severest  punishment  to  sell  anything  to 
the  foreigner.  This,  of  course,  included  food,  which  the 
landlord  of  the  inn  dared  no  longer  supply.  Not  knowing 
what  to  do,  Henry  Taylor  was  praying  alone  in  his  room 
one  night  when  he  heard  a  stealthy  movement  at  the 
shutter.  With  some  trepidation,  for  robbers  are  commonly 
armed  in  Ho-nan,  he  went  to  the  window  and  saw  a  man 
apparently  trying  to  get  in.  Before  he  could  give  the  alarm 
the  stranger  beckoned  to  him  to  be  silent.     FumbHng  in  his 


288         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

girdle  he  produced  a  little  loaf  of  bread,  then  another  and 
another,  six  in  all,  something  like  large  steamed  dumplings. 
These  he  handed  in  through  the  window,  and  without  a 
word  disappeared  in  the  darkness. 

Next  night  he  came  again,  and  the  same  scene  was 
transacted. 

"  Not  want,  not  want !  "  he  whispered  emphatically, 
when  the  missionary  offered  the  few  cash  he  had  left. 

He  dared  not  stay  for  conversation,  but  was  faithful  in 
his  visits  until  supplies  came,  and  Mr.  Taylor  was  able  to 
leave  for  the  coast. 

Many  a  story  could  the  pioneers  have  told  of  answers  to 
prayer  almost  equally  remarkable ;  of  friendliness  among 
all  classes,  as  well  as  the  old,  bitter  opposition  ;  of  opened 
hearts  here  and  there,  and  access  to  regions  never  before 
visited  by  foreigners.  Interested  inquirers  were  met  with 
again  and  again  in  remote  places,  and  letters  were  received 
telling  of  baptisms  in  the  clear  water  of  some  mountain 
stream,  and  even  of  Uttle  gatherings  for  the  Breaking  of 
Bread.  The  principle  on  which  these  itinerations  were 
carried  out  was  that  of  a  widespread  dissemination  of  saving 
truth,  to  be  followed  by  settled  work  as  the  way  should  open. 
Thoughts  wholly  strange  and  new  need  time  to  filter  into 
the  mind  of  a  community  as  of  an  individual.  By  coming 
back  again  and  again,  impressions  could  be  deepened  and 
interest  followed  up.  The  aim  was,  meanwliile,  to  gather 
information,  and  look  for  indications  as  to  where  to  settle. 
For  permanent  locahsed  work  was  the  object  kept  in  view  : 
only,  not  a  station  first,  and  a  church  (or  no  church)  after- 
wards ;  but,  if  possible,  signs  of  a  real  work  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  to  begin  with — mission-house  and  chapel  to  follow 
as  they  were  needed.  To  this  end  itineration  had  to  be 
patiently  pursued  ;  and  even  when  inquirers  were  gathered 
and  a  district  seemed  full  of  promise,  it  was  often  long  before 
it  was  possible  to  settle.  In  Ho-nan,  as  we  have  seen,  there 
was  much  to  indicate  the  Ju-ning  district  as  suitable  for 
permanent  work.  Some  thirty  people  were  found  on  the 
return  of  the  evangelists,  who  seemed  truly  to  have  accepted 
the  Gospel.     While  still  homeless  save  for  their  room  in  an 


THE  GATES  OF  THE  WEST  289 

inn,  Henry  Taylor  and  his  companions  baptized  two  of 
these — a  man  named  Wang,  and  Mr.  Mu,  through  whose 
preaching  most  of  the  others  had  been  interested.  At  length 
a  house  was  rented,  in  a  little  city  at  the  foot  of  the  hills,  and 
six  happy  weeks  spent  among  the  people.^  Then  the 
literati  stirred  up  trouble.  For  days  the  place  was  in  an 
uproar  and  the  missionaries'  Hves  were  in  danger  ;  and  few 
letters  are  more  pathetic  than  the  pencilled  lines  that  tell 
of  their  finally  having  to  withdraw  and  give  up  the  premises. 
Well  was  it,  then,  that  the  leader  of  the  Mission  was 
within  reach,  able  to  advise  and  comfort.  No  one  had 
passed  through  more  of  such  trials  than  he,  and  it  was  on 
purpose  to  guide  the  pioneers  and  strengthen  their  hands  in 
God  that  he  had  returned  to  China. 


For  himself,  little  that  he  had  planned  was  to  be  accom- 
plished during  the  first  few  months  after  his  arrival.  A 
chill  caught  in  the  China  Sea  led  to  serious  illness.  He  was 
able  to  go  up-river  as  far  as  Chin-kiang,  but  there  had  to 
learn  many  a  lesson  of  patience,  as  he  found  himself  needed 
at  nearly  every  station  in  the  Mission,  and  unable  to  do 
more  than  pray  and  help  by  correspondence. 

'*  It  is  difficult  to  realise,"  he  wrote  to  Mrs.  Taylor  in 
November,  "  that  I  cannot  run  about  as  I  once  did  "  ;  and  in 
another  letter,  "  the  weakness  that  prevents  overwork  may  be 
the  greatest  blessing  to  me." 

Yet  overwork  seemed  almost  inevitable ;  for  Mr.  C.  T. 
Fishe,  in  broken  health,  had  gone  home  on  furlough,  and 
there  was  no  one  else  to  take  his  place  as  Secretary  to  the 
Mission  in  China.  This  meant  long  hours  daily  at  ofiice 
work,  besides  Mr.  Taylor's  directorial  duties  and  the  oft- 
recurring  claims  of  China's  Millions,  of  which  he  was  Editor. 

^  At  Kio-shan  Hsien,  near  which  in  "  a  beautiful  mountain  stream  " 
the  baptisms  had  taken  place.  As  the  first-fruits  of  Ho-nan,  it  is  interest- 
ing to  record  that  these  converts  were  baptized  on  April  i,  1876,  by  Mr. 
Henry  Taylor,  Mr.  G.  W.  Clarke,  and  the  Evangelist  Yao,  who  accompanied 
them.  "  We  returned  to  our  inn,"  wrote  Mr.  Clarke,  "  and  after  instruct- 
ing them  from  several  portions  of  Scripture  on  the  Lord's  Supper,  partook 
of  it  with  them  for  the  first  time." 

U 


290         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

"  We  have  never  been  so  long  separated,"  he  wrote  again 
when  the  worst  of  his  iUness  was  past,  "  but  He  Who  has  helped 
us  day  by  day  for  more  than  two  months,  will  help  us  till  He 
gives  us  the  joy  of  reunion.  .  .  .  The  Lord  be  with  you  and 
comfort  your  heart  with  His  love.  May  you  find  it  better  than 
mine." 

Oh  1  it  is  good  to  soar 

The  winds  and  waves  above, 
To  Him  Whose  purpose  I  adore. 

Whose  providence  I  love  ; 
And  in  His  mighty  will  to  find 
The  joy  and  freedom  of  the  mind. 

Thus  it  was  that  Henry  Taylor  returning  sorrowfully 
from  Ho-nan,  George  Nicoll,  homeless  through  a  riot  at 
I-chang,  and  other  troubled  spirits  could  be  sure  of  finding 
not  only  counsel  and  help  at  Chin-kiang  but  a  heart  of  tender 
sympathy,  exercised  with  the  sorrows  of  many,  yet  free 
from  anxious  care. 

Despite  absence  from  home  and  loved  ones,  and  the 
limitations  of  ill-health  which  he  was  feeling  keenly,  Mr. 
Taylor  was  enabled  so  to  cast  his  burdens  on  the  Lord  that, 
as  he  wrote  to  Mr.  Hill  in  February  (1877),  he  "  could  not 
but  rejoice  seven  days  a  week."  Whenever  work  permitted, 
he  was  in  the  habit  of  turning  to  a  little  harmonium  for 
refreshment,  playing  and  singing  many  a  favourite  hymn, 
but  always  coming  back  to — 

Jesus,  I  am  resting,  resting,  in  the  joy  of  what  Thou  art ; 
I  am  finding  out  the  greatness  of  Thy  loving  heart. 

Some  around  him  could  hardly  understand  this  joy  and 
rest,  especially  when  fellow- workers  were  in  danger.  A 
budget  of  letters  arriving  on  one  occasion,  as  Mr.  Nicoll 
relates,  brought  news  of  serious  rioting  in  two  different 
stations.  Standing  at  his  desk  to  read  them,  Mr.  Taylor 
mentioned  what  was  happening  and  that  immediate  help 
was  necessary.  Feeling  that  he  might  wish  to  be  alone,  the 
younger  man  was  about  to  withdraw,  when,  to  his  surprise, 
some  one  began  to  whistle.  It  was  the  soft  refrain  of  the 
same  well-loved  hymn  : 

Jesus,  I  am  resting,  resting,  in  the  joy  of  what  Thou  art  ,  ,  ^ 


THE  GATES  OF  THE  WEST  291 

Turning  back,  Mr.  Nicoll  could  not  help  exclaiming, 
*'  How  can  you  whistle,  when  our  friends  are  in  such 
danger  !  *' 

**  Would  you  have  me  anxious  and  troubled  ?  "  was  the 
long-remembered  answer.  "  That  would  not  help  them, 
and  would  certainly  incapacitate  me  for  my  work.  I  have 
just  to  roll  the  burden  on  the  Lord." 

Day  and  night  that  was  his  secret,  *'  just  to  roll  the 
burden  on  the  Lord."  Frequently  those  who  were  wakeful 
in  the  little  house  at  Chin-kiang  might  hear,  at  two  or  three 
o'clock  in  the  morning,  the  soft  refrain  of  Mr.  Taylor's 
favourite  hymn.  He  had  learned  that,  for  him,  only  one 
Hfe  was  possible — just  that  blessed  life  of  resting  and  re- 
joicing in  the  Lord  under  all  circumstances,  while  He  dealt 
with  the  difficulties  inward  and  outward,  great  and  small. 

Second  only  to  his  longing  for  the  evangelisation  of  the 
inland  provinces  was  the  desire  that  possessed  Mr.  Taylor 
at  this  time  for  unity  and  blessing  in  the  forthcoming  Con- 
ference of  missionaries  to  be  held  in  Shanghai.  Never  had 
opportunities  been  greater,  or  the  need  for  spiritual  power 
more  urgent,  that  they  might  be  used  aright.  Mr.  Taylor 
longed  to  see  advance  on  a  wide  front — not  in  the  C.I.M. 
only,  but  on  the  part  of  all  societies — and  a  strong,  united 
appeal  to  the  home  churches  for  adequate  reinforcements. 
To  bring  this  about,  as  he  realised,  nothing  less  than  a 
wonderful  answer  to  prayer  could  avail ;  for  party  spirit 
was  running  high  over  the  difficult  "  term  question,"  ^  and 
many  missionaries  were  holding  aloof  from  the  Conference 
altogether,  feeling  that  it  would  be  an  occasion  for  contro- 
versy if  not  strife.  And  yet  China  was  open  from  end  to 
end  as  never  before.  Five  hundred  missionaries,  all  told, 
formed  the  little  company  to  whom  was  entrusted  the 
stupendous  task  of  its  evangeUsation.  How  great  their 
need  of  power — the  real  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit  poured  out, 
as  at  Pentecost,  upon  united,  expectant  hearts  ! 

There  were  still  some  months  before   the  Conference, 

'  The  perplexing  question,  that  is,  as  to  what  Chinese  term  should  be 
adopted  as  the  nearest  and  most  unambiguous  equivalent  for  the  Scriptural 
idea  of  God. 


292         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

convened  for  May  (1877),  and  this  interval  Mr.  Taylor  was 
seeking  to  make  the  most  of. 

"  There  is  one  very  important  matter  to  pray  about/*  he 
wrote  to  Mrs.  Taylor  in  February — "  the  forthcoming  con- 
ference. It  will  be  a  power  :  shall  it  be  for  good  or  evil  ?  This 
rests  much  with  us,  through  the  use  of  beheving  prayer.  Unless 
there  is  a  great  outpouring  of  God's  Holy  Spirit,  very  much  harm 
may  result :  verj^  much  has  already  resulted  from  prehminary 
discussions.  .  .  .  Nor  are  we  likely  to  pass  without  attack  if 
some  have  their  way.  But  our  God  is  an  almighty  Saviour,  and 
my  hope  is  in  Him.  If  His  Spirit  be  poured  out,  evil  wiU  be  kept 
in  check  ;  and  if  we  ask  for  it,  will  it  not  indeed  be  so  ?  Let  us 
pray,  then,  much  for  this — pray  daily  for  this  .  .  .  that  division 
and  discord  may  not  prevail  instead  of  unity  and  love." 

But  Mr.  Taylor  not  only  prayed  ;  he  did  all  that  in  him 
lay  to  promote  the  imity  he  felt  to  be  of  such  importance, 
and  to  remove  misimderst  an  dings.  It  was  hardly  to  be 
wondered  at,  as  he  was  the  first  to  recognise,  that  the  CT.M. 
should  have  come  in  for  a  large  share  of  criticism.  Its  aims 
and  methods  never  had  been  popular,  and  its  new  departure 
in  the  direction  of  widespread  evangelisation  was  of  the 
nature  of  an  experiment.  Because  the  pioneers  were  for 
the  most  part  young,  at  the  beginning  only  of  their  missionary 
life,  it  was  argued  that  it  could  not  be  right  to  use  them  in 
work  so  difficult  and  important.  Undoubtedly  they  were 
ignorant  and  inexperienced  as  compared  with  older  mission- 
aries, especially  with  the  able  men  to  be  found  in  the  fore- 
most ranks  of  other  societies.  No  one  would  have  been 
more  thankful  than  Mr.  Taylor  to  have  seen  such  workers 
take  the  field.  But  they  were  all  needed,  more  than  needed 
in  their  actual  posts.  There  was  no  suggestion  that  some 
or  any  of  the^n  should  be  set  free,  though  China  was  accessible 
at  last,  from  end  to  end,  to  preachers  of  the  Gospel.  Was, 
then,  no  one  to  go  because  they  could  not  send  the  best  ? 
Mr.  Taylor  had  good  reason  to  believe  that  these  young 
workers  had  been  given  in  answer  to  prayer,  and  that  the 
hand  of  God  was  in  the  coincidence  of  their  being  ready,  on 
the  spot,  when  the  Gates  of  the  West  were  thrown  open. 
He  was  doing  all  he  could  to  liberate  experienced  mission- 
aries, and  was  thankful  to  have  reliable  Chinese  Christians 


THE  GATES  OF  THE  WEST  293 

to  send  with  the  younger  evangehsts.  Experience,  he  well 
knew,  would  be  one  of  the  great  gains  that  would  come  to 
them  as  they  pursued  their  task ;  and  meanwhile,  if  they 
were  not  burdened  with  much  knowledge,  which  often  spells 
discouragement,  they  had  the  health  and  hopefulness  of 
youth  ;  the  buoyancy  of  body,  mind,  and  spirit  which  is  in 
itself  so  great  a  gift.  If  only  their  critics,  and  they  were 
many,  could  come  nearer — could  meet  and  know  the  men 
in  question,  and  hear  from  their  own  lips  of  the  wonderful 
opportunities  God  was  giving — objections,  he  had  no  doubt, 
would  give  place  to  sympathy.  But  how  was  this  to  be 
brought  to  pass  ? 

A  leader  less  humble,  perhaps,  less  truly  taught  of  God, 
might  have  brushed  aside  unfriendly  criticism,  absorbing 
himself  in  what  he  felt  to  be  his  own  work.  But  years  of 
self-effacing  discipline  had  not  been  in  vain.  Now  that  the 
opportunity  prayed  for  through  half  a  lifetime  had  come, 
the  grace  to  use  it  wisely  and  to  the  glory  of  God  was  not 
withheld.  Keenly  as  Mr.  Taylor  felt  the  attitude  of  opposi- 
tion, he  knew  that  those  whose  views  differed  most  widely 
from  his  own  might  have  just  as  sincere  a  desire  for  the 
advancement  of  the  Kingdom  of  God.  He  had  grasped, 
moreover,  something  of  the  real,  indissoluble  oneness  of  the 
body  of  Christ :  that  it  is  not  that  the  eye  should  not  say  to 
the  hand,  *'  I  have  no  need  of  thee  *' — ^it  cannot.  '*  If  the 
foot  shall  say,  because  I  am  not  the  hand,  I  am  not  of  the 
body  ;  is  it  therefore  not  of  the  body  7  "  On  the  contrary, 
whatever  it  may  say  or  feel,  of  the  body  it  is  and  must 
remain.  The  bearing  of  this  principle  upon  the  position  of 
the  C.I.M.  he  saw  with  increasing  clearness.  As  a  hand, 
this  pioneering  effort  might  reach  out  a  certain  distance 
beyond  the  rest  of  the  body  ;  but  if  it  would  go  further,  the 
body  must  go  too  :  there  could  be  no  other  way.  A  large 
part,  and  not  the  easiest  part  of  his  work  as  he  was 
learning,  must  consist  in  the  humble,  patient  endeavour 
to  carry  his  brethren  with  him  in  any  new  departure  to 
which  he  was  constrained  of  God.  How  much  easier  it 
would  have  been  to  go  on  alone,  independently,  he  may 
have  felt.      But  where  is   there   room   for   independence 


294         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

in  a  living  organism,  every  part  of  which  is  bound  up  with 
the  whole  ? 

These  thoughts  in  mind,  Mr.  Taylor  went  on  from  Chin- 
kiang,  as  soon  as  he  was  able,  to  the  new  centre  of  the  Mission 
at  Wu-chang.  Mr.  Judd  had  just  set  out  with  one  of  the 
pioneers  for  the  far-off  capital  of  Kwei-chow,  and  his  place 
had  to  be  filled.  There  were  problems  also  to  consider  as  to 
how  to  keep  in  touch  with  distant  workers,  so  as  to  reach 
them  regularly  with  supplies.  For  several  weeks  Mr.  Taylor 
had  the  benefit  of  experienced  help,  while  Mr.  McCarthy  was 
preparing  for  what  proved  to  be  one  of  the  most  remarkable 
journeys  ever  taken  in  Western  China. ^  Difficult  as  it  was 
to  spare  him,  Mr.  Taylor  rejoiced  in  the  project  almost  as 
much  as  if  he  were  going  himself,  and  many  were  the  hours 
of  consultation  and  prayer  they  had  over  the  whole  forward 
movement. 

Remembering  their  own  spiritual  difficulties,  they  felt 
the  importance  of  providing  help  for  younger  workers  whose 
strenuous  life  exposed  them  to  so  much  of  trial  and  tempta- 
tion. The  thought  of  calling  together  as  many  of  the 
pioneers  as  possible  for  a  week  of  conference  had  long  been 
in  Mr.  Taylor's  mind,  and  in  sending  oE  recent  parties  he 
had  arranged  that  they  should  return  for  books  and  money 
at  a  given  time.  And  now  as  he  considered  the  matter  with 
Mr.  McCarthy,  they  saw  in  such  a  reunion  the  possibility 
of  just  the  rapprochement  needed  with  workers  of  other 
societies.  For  the  missionary  community  in  Hankow,  across 
the  river,  was  considerable,  and  if  united  meetings  could  be 

*  Without  sajdng  anything  of  their  hopes  in  this  connection,  Mr. 
Taylor  and  he  made  plans  for  a  walk  right  across  China — from  the  Yangtze 
to  the  Irrawaddy  ;  which  Mr.  McCarthy  was  enabled  to  accomplish  in 
seven  months,  taking  time  to  preach  the  Gospel  fully  in  many  places, 
and  opening  Chung-king,  the  first  Mission-station  in  the  province  of  Sze- 
chwan  with  its  population  of  nearly  seventy  milUons.  The  only  foreigner 
met  with  on  this  long  journey — on  which  he  was  accompanied  by  the 
faithful  soldier-evangeUst  Yang  Ts'iien-Ung — was  Mr.  Broumton,  alone 
in  the  city  of  Kwei-yang  ;  until  at  Bhamo  Messrs.  Stevenson  and  Soltau 
welcomed  the  wayworn  travellers.  This  journey  laid  the  needs  of  the 
women  so  deeply  on  Mr.  McCarthy's  heart  that  he  was  used  to  stir  up  many 
to  pray  and  labour  for  their  salvation,  and  much  of  his  subsequent  useful- 
ness was  connected  with  the  development  of  Women's  Work  in  the  inland 
provinces. 


THE  GATES  OF  THE  WEST  295 

arranged,  much  might  be  done  to  promote  mutual  under- 
standing, and  prepare  the  way  for  the  larger  Conference  in 
Shanghai. 

The  response  this  suggestion  met  with  from  the  London 
and  Wesleyan  Missions  was  so  encouraging  that  Mr.  Taylor 
could  not  but  feel  that,  already,  prayer  was  being  answered  ; 
and  he  determined  to  seek  opportunities  for  closer  inter- 
course, especially  with  those  whom  he  knew  to  be  critical 
toward  the  C.I.M.  This  was  not  easy,  on  account  of  the 
great  pressure  of  work  upon  him,  nor  was  it  a  line  of  things 
his  sensitive  spirit  would  have  chosen.  But,  as  he  had 
written  to  Mrs.  Taylor  soon  after  reaching  Wu-chang  : 

It  is  our  Father  Who  orders  all — these  experiences  included. 
I  feel  more  and  more  that  it  is  with  Him  we  have  to  do  :  not  so 
much  with  men,  or  things,  but  with  Him.  And  herein  lies  our 
power  to  do  and  suffer  patiently,  perseveringly.  We  can  take 
rebuffs,  sorrows,  disappointments  from  His  hand,  though  we  might 
resent  them  from  one  another.  And  joys  are  doubly  joys  when 
received  from  Him. 

In  this  spirit  he  was  glad  rather  than  otherwise  to  find 
himself  delayed  in  Hankow  one  evening  until  it  was  too  late 
to  recross  the  river.  Before  he  could  reach  the  other  side 
the  city-gates  would  be  shut,  and  without  bedding,  etc.,  he 
could  not  very  well  go  to  an  inn.  It  was  necessary,  there- 
fore, to  seek  hospitality  ;  and  this  Mr.  Taylor  did  by  calHng 
upon  a  missionary  with  whom  he  was  but  slightly  acquainted, 
and  who  took  a  very  unfavourable  view  both  of  himself  and 
the  C.I.M.  Quite  simply  he  explained  the  circumstances, 
asking  whether  it  would  be  convenient  to  put  him  up  for 
the  night.  Christian  courtesy  admitted  but  one  reply,  and 
the  sense  of  having  done  a  kindness  opened  the  way  for 
friendly  intercourse.  Mr.  Taylor  being  as  good  a  listener  as 
he  was  a  talker,  his  host  found  himself  drawn  into  helpful 
conversation,  even  upon  spiritual  things.  A  cordial  friend- 
ship resulted  ;  the  missionary  in  question  taking  an  early 
opportunity  of  letting  it  be  known  that  he  had  had  "  no  idea 
Mr.  Taylor  was  so  good  a  man." 

Down  the  Yangtze  more  or  less  the  same  experience  was 
repeated,  as  Mr.  Taylor  visited  the  river  stations  with  a  view 


296         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

to  making  arrangements  for  Mr.  McCarthy's  district.^ 
Where  missionaries  of  other  societies  were  to  be  found,  he 
took  time  to  see  something  of  their  work,  enjoying  a  Sunday 
especially  with  the  Rev.  David  Hill  at  Wu-sueh.  At  Kiu- 
kiang  he  had  a  good  deal  of  intercourse  with  the  American 
missionaries,  putting  up  apparently  in  native  quarters.^ 

"  The  wind  is  strong  and  cold,"  he  wrote  to  Mrs.  Taylor 
during  this  visit  (Feb.  24).  "  I  am  writing  by  a  little  vidndow 
in  a  dark  attic.  The  chair  is  not  a  foot  high,  yet  I  can  touch 
the  tiles  as  I  sit.  The  hail-stones  that  came  through  the  roof 
in  the  night,  my  *  boy  '  swept  up  into  a  heap  this  morning,  a 
foot  and  a  half  square  and  one  or  two  inches  thick.  I  was  writing 
with  numbed  fingers  till  3  a.m.,  and  out  to  breakfast  at  eight. 
Nature  does  not  enjoy  these  things  ;  but  my  heart  rejoices  in 
my  Father's  arrangements,  and  I  cannot  keep  the  words  of 
'  What  a  Friend  we  have  in  Jesus,*  and  the  music  too,  from 
welling  up  within — cannot  and  do  not  want  to,  for  it  is  all  true, 
is  it  not  ?  " 

"  I  have  written  to  The  Missionary  Recorder,"  he  continued 
a  few  days  later,  "  asking  special  prayer  for  the  outpouring  of 
God's  Spirit,  not  only  at  the  Conference  but  before ;  that  we 
may  all  go  up  filled  with  the  Spirit,  and  not  merely  hoping  for 
a  blessing."  .  .  . 

A  day  or  two  later,  out  on  the  wind-swept  river,  he  was 
thinking  and  praying  over  the  needs  of  the  province  he  had 
just  touched  in  passing  (Kiang-si). 

*'  It  is  stiff  soil,"  he  wrote,  "  and  none  but  fully  consecrated 
men  will  accomplish  much.  Comfort -seeking,  etc.,  won't  do 
there.  Cross-loving  men  are  needed.  Where  are  they  to  be 
found  ?  Alas — where  !  Oh,  may  God  make  you  and  me  of 
this  spirit  !  and  may  our  only  prayer  be,  *  Lord,  what  wilt  Thou 
have  me  to  do  ?  '  I  feel  so  ashamed  that  you  and  the  dear 
children  should  affect  me  more  than  millions  here  who  are  perish- 
ing— while  we  are  sure  of  eternity  together.  The  good  Lord 
forgive  us,  or  me  rather.  .  .  . 

"  There  are  such  openings  in  China  as  there  never  have  been 
and  as  are  not  Hkely  to  recur.     Just  while  the  effect  of  the 

^  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Edward  Pearse,  who  joined  him  at  An-king,  this 
chain  of  stations  was  committed,  the  importance  of  the  work  being  seen 
in  the  fact  that  the  converts  baptized  on  this  journey  (March  1877)  repre- 
sented no  fewer  than  six  provinces. 

*  The  C.I.M.  house  was  closed,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Cardwell  being  at  home 
on  furlough. 


THE  GATES  OF  THE  WEST  297 

Imperial  proclamations  lasts  (and  this  will  largely  be  over  in  a 
very  few  months)  we  can  do  in  weeks  what  would  have  taken 
months  or  years  before.  I  see  God's  hand  in  bringing  me  here 
just  now,  on  this  and  many  other  grounds." 

Meanwhile  the  long-closed  gates  were  opening  indeed. 
In  the  north  and  far  north-west,  the  pioneers  held  on  their 
way ;  Mr.  McCarthy  was  already  nearing  the  western 
province  of  Sze-chwan,  larger  than  the  whole  of  France  and 
far  more  populous  ;  Judd  and  Broumton  had  been  prospered 
in  renting  premises  in  the  capital  of  Kwei-chow,^  eight 
hundred  miles  south-west  of  the  nearest  mission  station  ; 
while  from  Bhamo  Messrs.  Stevenson  and  Soltau  had  made 
extended  journeys  into  the  Kah-chen  hills,  from  which  two 
or  three  hours'  descent  would  have  brought  them  into 
Chinese  territory. 2  To  his  beloved  friend  Mr.  Berger,  so 
long  one  with  him  in  prayer  for  these  very  developments, 
Mr.  Taylor  had  recently  written  :  ^ 

It  will  afford  you  no  small  joy  to  know  that  our  prayers  are 
so  far  answered  that  work  is  begun  in  six  of  the  nine  provinces. 
You  will  have  heard  that  Stevenson  and  Soltau  are  not  permitted 
at  present  to  enter  Yiin-nan.  I  trust  the  delay  will  only  be 
temporary,  and  that  the  way  may  ultimately  be  all  the  more 
open.  It  is  such  a  rest  to  know  and  feel  that  God  knows  how 
to  carry  on  His  own  work.  .  .  . 

My  heart  is  unspeakably  glad  that  He  led  my  dear  wife  and 
myself  to  use  our  means  in  aid  of  this  and  other  similar  work  in 
needy  lands,  and  to  separate  for  a  season  in  furtherance  of  His 
cause.     Can  we  be  mistaken  in  trusting  Him  to  do  what  He  so 
easily  can — to  supply  the  men  and  means  needed  for  carryingx 
on  His  own  work,  and  extending  it  ?     My  glad  heart  says,  "  No,"  \ 
little  as  I  know  Him  :    and  what  is  more.  His  word  says,  "  He  ' 
that  spared  not  His  own  Son,  but  deUvered  Him  up  for  us  all, 
how  shall  He  not,  with  Him  also,  freely  give  us  all  things  ?  "     / 

^  Thus  was  opened  in  February  1877  the  first  permanent  Mission- 
station  in  any  of  the  nine  hitherto  unoccupied  provinces.  Kwei-yang 
is  still  a  centre  of  the  C.I.M.  in  that  province,  in  which  it  has  now  ten 
stations,  57  out-stations,  and  6330  communicants. 

2  It  was  a  sore  trial  to  Mr.  Stevenson  and  Mr.  Soltau  to  be  v/ithheld 
from  carrying  out  the  purpose  with  which  they  had  gone  to  Bhamo,  not 
through  any  difficulty  with  the  Burman  or  Chinese  authorities,  but  through 
the  attitude  of  the  Indian  Government,  which  decUned  to  grant  the  pass- 
ports needed  to  cross  into  Chinese  territory.  News  of  this  unexpected 
difficulty  reached  Mr.  Taylor  in  the  Yangtze  valley,  in  February  1877. 

^  On  the  s.s.  Kiang-yung,  travelling  up  to  Wu-chang,  January  6,  1877. 


298         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Thus  with  thankfulness  and  expectation  Mr.  Taylor 
returned  to  Wu-chang  to  meet  the  pioneers  as  they  gathered 
for  their  little  conference.  From  the  far  inland  provinces 
they  came,  as  well  as  from  the  river  stations — seventeen 
C.I.M.  workers  in  all,  to  be  joined  by  a  dozen  or  more  of  the 
Hankow  missionaries.  The  chief  responsibility  for  the 
meetings  rested  upon  Mr.  Taylor  ;  and  as  always  in  times  of 
special  need,  a  day  was  set  apart  for  prayer  and  fasting. 
He  and  his  fellow-workers  were  one  in  the  longing  for  an 
outpouring  of  divine  blessing  that  should  sweep  away  all 
coldness  and  deadness  in  their  own  hearts,  all  criticism  and 
misunderstanding ;  an  enduement  with  "  power  from  on 
high  "  for  the  great  work  to  be  done. 

Wonderful  in  the  days  that  followed  was  the  answer  to 
these  prayers.  In  Mr.  Judd's  garden-house  on  the  hill-side, 
and  the  L.M.S.  chapel  across  the  river,  the  presence  of  God 
was  consciously  felt.  "  Take  time  to  be  holy  "  was  the 
burden  of  Dr.  Griffith  John's  message,  followed  by  practical 
talks  from  Mr.  Taylor  and  others  on  the  real  problems,  the 
inward,  spiritual  problems,  of  missionary  life.  Much  time 
was  given  to  prayer,  especially  for  the  unopened  provinces  ; 
and  the  story  the  young  evangeUsts  had  to  tell,  simple 
though  it  was,  called  forth  deepest  sympathy.  The  hopeful- 
ness of  these  inexperienced  workers,  their  enthusiasm  and 
genuine  confidence  in  God  as  able  and  willing  to  do  the 
impossible,  were  contagious  as  well  as  cheering. 

"  I  thank  God  for  Mr.  Taylor ;  I  thank  God  for  the  C.I.M. ; 
I  thank  God  for  my  younger  brethren,"  Dr.  John  said  earnestly 
at  the  closing  meeting,  adding  that  he  was  sure  he  was  but  express- 
ing the  feeling  of  aU  the  Hankow  missionaries. 

Three  weeks  later  came  the  Shanghai  General  Conference, 
and  Mr.  Taylor  having  sent  off  the  pioneers,  strengthened 
and  encouraged,  turned  to  the  difficult  task  awaiting  him  at 
the  coast.  The  paper  he  had  to  read  was  upon  "  Itineration 
Far  and  Near,  as  an  Evangehsing  Agency,"  and  while  it  was 
the  subject  of  all  others  nearest  his  heart,  he  well  knew  that 
next  only  to  the  "  term  question  "  it  would  probably  call 
forth  differences  of  opinion,  if  not  bitterness  of  feeling. 
"  Jesus,  I  am  resting,  resting**  was  the  hymn  he  most  often 


THE  GATES  OF  THE  WEST  299 

asked  for  in  the  little  crowded  house  where  the  C.I.M. 
contingent  gathered ;  ^  and  despite  the  seriousness  of  the 
issues  involved,  his  mind  was  kept  in  peace. 

And  once  again  prayer  was  answered  and  the  seemingly 
impossible  brought  to  pass.  The  **  term  question,"  which 
had  threatened  to  prove  so  serious  a  difficulty,  was  by  general 
consent  excluded  from  the  deliberations  ;  and  Mr.  Taylor's 
paper,  as  The  Celestial  Empire  recorded,  "  secured  the 
deepest  interest  of  his  audience."  ^  From  Dr.  John's 
opening  address  with  its  searching,  powerful  appeal  for  a  life 
in  the  Holy  Spirit,  to  the  call  of  the  united  conference  "  to 
the  Mission  Boards,  Colleges  and  Churches  of  the  World  " 
for  men  and  women  to  meet  the  great  opportunity,  all  was 
cause  for  thanksgiving — "  a  gathering  fraught  with  blessing 
to  the  people  of  China,"  as  Mr.  Taylor  wrote,  "the  most 
important  step  China  missions  have  yet  taken."  The 
parting,  after  two  weeks  of  fellowship  (May  10-24)  was 
"  like  the  breaking-up  of  a  family  never  more  to  meet  on 
earth."  No  discordant  note  remained.  Even  the  Chinese 
dress  of  Mr.  Taylor  and  his  fellow-workers  had  ceased  to 
offend,  and  the  forward  movement  they  represented  had 
passed  into  the  confidence  and  prayerful  sympathy  of  most 
if  not  all  present. 

*  The  C.I.M.  Headquarters  in  Shanghai  had  been  moved  by  this  time 
to  7  Seward  Road,  Hongkew,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Cranston  generously  acting 
as  house-father  and  house-mother.  While  paying  for  the  rooms  they 
occupied,  they  undertook  all  the  Mission  business  that  had  to  be  trans- 
acted in  that  port,  and  boarded  the  missionaries  as  they  came  and  went. 
In  spirit  they  were  almost  members  of  the  Mission,  and  with  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Thos.  Weir,  also  residents  in  Shanghai,  were,  and  still  are,  among  its  most 
valued  friends. 

2  "  God  greatly  helped  me  this  afternoon  with  my  paper,"  he  wrote 
himself ;  "  the  feeling,  now,  is  very  kind  toward  us." — To  Mrs.  Taylor, 
May  12,  1877. 


PART  V 

BURIED   LIVES:    MUCH  FRUIT 

1878-1881.     Aet.  46-49. 
Chap.  21.     "For  Jesus'  Sake." 
,,       22.    He  goeth  before  them. 
„      23.    Women  which  laboured  with  me  in  the  Gospel 


Hearken,  O  daughter,  and  consider  .  .  .  forget  also  thine  own 
people  and  thy  father's  house  ;  so  shall  the  king  greatly  desire  thy 
beauty  :  for  He  is  thy  Lord  and  worship  thou  Him. — Ps.  xlv.  lo,  n. 

If  the  world  were  mine,  and  all  its  store, 

And  were  it  of  crystal  gold, 
Couid  I  reign  on  its  throne  for  evermore 

From  the  ancient  days  of  old. 
An  empress  noble  and  fair  as  day, 

Oh  gladly  might  it  be — 
That  I  might  cast  it  all  away  : 

Christ,  only  Christ  for  me  1 

Matilda  of  Hefta,  13th  century. 

The  Lord  giveth  the  word  ;  the  women  that  publish  the  tidings 
are  a  great  host. — Ps.  Ixviii.  11,  R.V. 


CHAPTER  XXI 

•*  FOR   JESUS'   SAKE  " 
1877-1879.     Aet.  45-47- 

Serious  tidings  were  already  reaching  Mr.  Taylor,  before 
the  Shanghai  Conference,  of  the  long-continued  drought  in 
the  northern  provinces.  Failure  of  the  wheat  a^nd  other 
crops,  year  after  year,  had  brought  a  vast  population  to  the 
verge  of  famine,  and  letters  from  two  of  the  pioneers  on 
their  second  visit  to  Shan-si  were  full  of  the  impending 
calamity.  Realising  in  measure  what  the  situation  meant, 
and  the  opportunity  it  afforded  for  practising  as  well  as 
preaching  the  Gospel,  Mr.  Taylor  was  anxious  to  do  as  much, 
as  possible  to  supply  Messrs.  Turner  and  James  with  funds 
for  famine  relief.  They  were  the  only  Protestant  mission- 
aries in  all  the  stricken  area,  and  their  letters  published  in 
China  s  Millions  could  not  fail  to  awaken  sympathy.  But 
the  assistance  would  have  to  be  long-continued,  and  on  this 
ground  alone  Mr.  Taylor  saw  that  his  return  to  England 
should  be  as  speedy  as  possible. 

The  forty  weeks  of  his  expected  absence  from  home  were 
nearing  an  end,  but  not  so  the  work  to  be  done  in  China. 
None  of  the  older  centres  of  the  Mission  had  yet  been  visited  ; 
and  keen  as  he  was  about  the  pioneering,  the  settled  stations 
with  their  little  churches  were  ever  on  his  heart.  In  his 
poor  state  of  health  it  was  no  easy  matter  to  face  the  intense 
heat  of  summer  in  visits  to  the  Che-kiang  stations,  with  all 
that  was  involved  of  work  and  arduous  travelling.  He  had 
fully  expected  to  get  through  before  the  Shanghai  Con- 
ference ;    but  iiow  that  important  occasion  had  come  and 

303 


304         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

gone,  and  he  seemed  little  nearer  the  return  to  England  that 
was  in  many  ways  so  urgent. 

"  Sometimes  it  does  seem  hard,"  he  had  written  to  Mrs. 
Taylor  early  in  May,  "  to  be  so  long  away  from  you.  But  when 
I  think  of  One  Who  spent  thirty-three  years  away  from  His 
heaven,  and  finished  them  on  Calvary,  I  feel  ashamed  of  my 
own  selfishness." 

And  while  the  Conference  was  going  on  : 

I  do  Uke  our  absence  from  one  another,  for  Jesus'  sake,  to 
cost  us  something — ^to  be  a  real  sacrifice.  May  His  worthy  and 
loving  heart  accept  it. 

Much  exhausted  after  the  Conference,  and  suffering  from 
neuralgia  though  he  was,  he  set  out  therefore  on  a  thorough 
visitation  of  the  Che-kiang  stations,^  accompanied  most  of 
the  way  by  a  travelling-companion  whose  presence  proved 
specially  helpful  among  the  women. 

Miss  EHzabeth  Wilson,  whom  he  was  escorting  to  Wen- 
chow,  had  by  this  time  been  more  than  a  year  in  China. 
Though  scarcely  beyond  middle-age,  and  full  of  energy  and 
brightness,  her  silvery  hair  brought  her  the  advantage  of 
being  considered  '*  old,"  among  a  people  with  whom  such 
an  appellation  is  an  honour,  and  her  coming  to  China  at  all 
was  rather  a  wonder  to  other  foreigners.  But  Mr.  Taylor 
knew  the  whole  story.  He  had  met  her  long  before,  as  a  girl 
on  a  visit  to  London,  and  had  learned  of  her  earnest  desire 
to  give  her  life  to  missionary  work.  But  at  that  time  she 
was  needed  in  her  Westmorland  home,  and  when  her  sister 
married  and  her  parents  became  invalids  the  cherished  hope 
had  to  be  hidden  in  her  heart. 

"  Years  went  on,"  as  Mr.  Taylor  said  in  speaking  of  her 
subsequent  usefulness  in  China,  "  and  this  loving  daughter  never 

1  Mr.  Taylor  not  only  visited  on  this  journey  (May  to  October  1877) 
all  the  stations  and  out-stations  of  the  Mission  in  Che-kiang,  with  one 
exception  (illness  at  Wen-chow  obliging  him  to  hurry  past  Hwang-yen) ; 
he  crossed  over  from  Wen-chow  to  Chii-chow-fu  on  the  Tsien-tang  river, 
staying  at  Chu-chow  (the  district  now  occupied  by  the  Barmen  Mission), 
at  Yung-kang,  Kin-hwa-fu  and  Lan-chi  on  the  way.  In  all  this  region 
there  was  then  no  resident  missionary.  At  Chii-chow-fu,  under  Mr.  Douth- 
waite's  care,  he  met  the  first  converts  from  Yii-shan,  in  the  neighbouring 
province  of  Kiang-si  (see  pp.  334,  335).  Thence  he  returned  down  the 
Tsien-tang  river  to  Hang-chow. 


"  FOR  JESUS'  SAKE  "  305 

let  her  parents  suspect  that  she  was  making  any  sacrifice  on  the 
one  hand,  yet  never  recalled  the  gift  she  had  given  to  the  Lord 
for  missionary  service  on  the  other.  When  five  years  had  gone 
by,  she  began  to  feel,  '  If  I  am  delayed  much  longer,  the  language 
will  be  hard  to  learn.'     But  she  waited  God's  time. 

"  Ten,  twenty,  thirty  years  passed  away  ere  the  Lord  set 
her  free ;  but  the  vow  of  twenty  was  as  fresh  in  her  heart  at 
fifty  as  when  first  it  had  been  offered.  Within  three  weeks  of 
the  death  of  her  surviving  parent,  ^he  wrote  to  our  headquarters 
in  London  of  her  desire  to  spend  the  remainder  of  her  days  in 
missionary  work  in  China."  ^ 

Very  interesting  it  was,  now,  to  see  the  welcome  with 
which  the  Christian  women  received  this  unexpected  visitor, 
especially  in  stations  where  they  had  no  lady  missionary. 
With  their  Romanised  New  Testaments  wrapped  in  coloured 
handkerchiefs  (the  precious  book  it  had  cost  Mr.  Taylor  and 
others  years  of  labour  to  provide)  they  walked  miles  on  tiny 
feet  to  meet  the  travellers,  and  begged  in  place  after  place 
that  the  "  Elder  Sister  "  might  stay  among  them,  that  they 
as  well  as  the  men  might  have  some  one  to  teach  them  the 
things  of  God. 

From  Miss  Wilson's  recollections  of  this  journey  we  learn 
of  the  exceeding  love  with  which  Mr.  Taylor  was  received 
in  many  places,  especially  among  the  mountain  people  of 
what  had  been  Mr.  Stevenson's  out-stations.  Simple  as 
they  were,  and  poor,  they  entertained  him  with  generous 
hospitahty,  so  that  the  inns  in  which  he  had  often  sojourned 
knew  him  no  more,  on  that  route  at  any  rate.  To  some  of 
the  villages  he  was  carried  in  the  primitive  mountain-chair, 
hanging  from  a  single  pole,  the  Christians  themselves  being 
his  bearers  and  resolutely  refusing  payment. 

It  was  a  sorrow  to  miss,  in  this  beautiful  district,  one 
who  had  been  called  Home  since  Mr.  Taylor's  last  visit  three 
and  a  half  years  previously.  Then,  the  scholar  Njdng  had 
been,  under  God,  the  inspiration  of  the  work  ;  now,  his  place 

1  Miss  Wilson,  a  sister  of  the  well-known  Convener  of  the  Keswick 
Convention,  Mr.  Robert  Wilson,  went  out  as  a  self-supporting  worker 
with  the  last  party  of  the  Eighteen  (1876),  and  remained  twelve  years 
in  China.  "  Whether  she  will  be  strong  enough  to  go  back,  as  she  so 
much  desires,  I  do  not  know,"  Mr,  Taylor  wrote  after  her  return  (il 
"  but  I  do  know  that  her  life  there  has  been  an  immense  blessing." 

X 


3o6         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

was  empty.  The  truth  he  had  so  faithfully  proclaimed  was 
still  bearing  fruit,  however,  in  many  a  life,  sometimes  in 
strangely  imexpected  ways.  There  was  the  cotton-weaver 
of  Cheng-hsien,  for  example,  saved  through  the  preaching 
of  Tao-hsing  (himself  one  of  Njdng's  children  in  the  faith) , 
saved  through  a  hole  in  the  wall,  amid  ridicule  and 
laughter,  but  blessedly  saved !  It  was  a  joy  to  Miss 
Wilson  as  well  as  Mr.  Taylor  to  meet  this  man  and  hear 
his  story. 

He  was  just  a  poor  orphan  lad,  the  slave  and  drudge  of 
the  family  who  had  adopted  him.  Hearing  unusual  sounds 
of  merriment  one  day  from  the  adjoining  house,  he  left  his 
work  and  went  to  a  little  opening  he  knew  of,  where  a  knot 
had  dropped  out  of  the  wooden  partition,  to  see  what  was 
going  on.  The  son  of  the  neighbouring  family  had  just 
returned  from  the  city  and  was  telling  his  experiences.  He 
was  making  fun,  it  appeared,  of  some  one  he  had  heard 
talking  to  a  crowd.  It  was  the  well-known  gambler, 
Tao-hsing,  who  had  "  eaten  the  foreign  religion  "  and  whose 
life  had  become  so  changed.^  He  was  telHng  the  matchless 
story  of  the  Prodigal  Son,  telling  it  out  of  a  full  heart. 
Travestied  as  it  was  in  the  reproduction,  it  still  appealed  to 
the  dejected,  lonely  listener,  as  nothing  else  that  he  had 
ever  heard.  Could  it  be  that  there  was  a  God — a  Father 
in  heaven — Who  loved  like  that ! 

"  Oh,  go  on,  go  on  !  "  he  cried  almost  without  knowing 
it  when  the  recital  ended.  "  Let  us  hear  more  of  those  good 
words." 

Astonishment  and  laughter  on  the  other  side  of  the 
partition  drove  him  from  his  vantage-ground,  but  only  to 
send  him  in  search  of  his  neighbour,  from  whom  he  learned 
where  the  wonderful  teaching  could  be  heard.  And  once 
he  had  grasped  the  heavenly  message,  nothing  would  induce 
him  to  turn  away  from  the  Saviour  Whom,  not  having  seen, 
he  loved.  Called  up  one  night  during  the  following  winter, 
he  was  told  by  the  people  with  whom  he  lived  that  they 
would  stand  it  no  longer.  He  must  give  up  his  employment, 
his  home,  the  affianced  bride  for  whom  he  was  working — 
*  For  the  conversion  of  the  gambler  see  p.  242. 


"  FOR  JESUS'  SAKE  "  307 

give  up  everything  and  be  thrust,  penniless,  into  the  streets 
— or  have  done  with  this  new-fangled  religion. 

What,  give  up  Christ  ?  It  was  a  terrible  ordeal,  for  the 
people  were  very  angry.  But  he  was  kept  amid  all  the 
excitement,  and  enabled  to  tell  them  unhesitatingly  that 
nothing  could  alter  his  choice.  Then  and  there  he  found 
himself  hustled  out  into  the  darkness ;  heard  the  door 
barred  behind  him,  and  felt  the  driving  sleet  beat  upon  his 
shelterless  head.     There  was  no  refuge  but  in  God. 

"  A  week  or  two  later,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote,  "  the  family  found 
they  could  not  manage  without  him.  After  trying  in  vain  to 
induce  him  to  turn  from  the  Lord,  they  took  him  back  ;  and 
when  we  were  there,  there  was  hope  of  the  conversion  of  several 
members  of  that  household.  Truly  the  Gospel  is  still '  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation  ' ;  we  have  no  need  to  be  ashamed  of  it, 
or  fear  for  its  success  1  " 

Farther  south  over  the  mountains,  Miss  Wilson  had  the 
new  experience  of  being  entertained  in  more  than  one 
village  temple,  cleared  of  idols,  which  had  been  given  by 
its  owner  for  Christian  worship.  Eleven  baptisms  took 
place  in  the  temple  at  Dien-tsi  during  their  visit,  quite  a 
company  of  church  members  and  inquirers  assembhng  for 
the  feast  Mr.  Taylor  provided. 

Then,  too,  she  remembered  his  never-ending  labours  on 
boats,  in  sedan-chairs  and  in  the  stations  to  which  they 
came — always  the  little  white  skin  box  that  held  his  papers  ; 
always  the  letters  to  be  answered,  articles  to  be  written  for 
China's  Millions,  or  Mission  business  to  attend  to.  It  was 
the  element  of  fervent,  unfailing  prayer  for  his  fellow- 
workers,  however,  which  impressed  Miss  Wilson  most. 
No  less  than  three  times  daily  he  was  in  the  habit  of  waiting 
upon  God  on  their  behalf,  once  at  least  mentioning  by  name 
every  member  of  the  Mission,  though  they  already  numbered 
seventy  apart  from  Chinese  helpers. 

Much  though  there  was  to  encourage  in  connection  with 
this  five  months'  journey,  there  were  also  little  churches  that 
greatly  needed  quickening,  and  missionaries  who  were  in 
poor  health  and  tried  in  spirit.  And  these  places,  Miss 
Wilson   noticed,   were  not   passed   over   hurriedly.     Even 


3o8         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

when  much  of  discomfort  was  involved,  Mr.  Taylor  would 
stay  on,  doing  all  he  could  to  help — relieving  the  workers  in 
charge  by  conducting  daily  meetings,  getting  into  touch 
with  the  Christians  and  accompanying  the  missionary  to 
his  out-stations.  At  one  centre  where  there  was  sickness 
the  house  was  so  full  that,  Miss  Wilson  being  accommodated, 
no  room  could  be  found  for  Mr.  Taylor.  But  the  family 
were  greatly  needing  help,  and  though  it  was  the  hottest 
part  of  summer  he  remained  for  three  weeks,  sleeping  on  the 
verandah  at  night,  and  doing  without  any  place  to  himself 
through  the  day. 

By  this  time  he  had  in  mind  a  plan  for  helping  the  little 
churches,  which  he  longed  to  see  carried  out.  Why  should 
there  not  be  a  Chinese  conference  for  native  leaders  much 
on  the  same  lines  as  the  united  meetings  recently  held  in 
Shanghai  ?  Such  a  gathering  had  never  at  that  time  been 
thought  of,  much  less  attempted,  but  Mr.  Taylor  saw  the 
stimulus  and  encouragement  it  might  afford. 

"  Pray  very  much  for  a  blessing  on  our  Ningpo  Conference," 
he  wrote  to  Mrs.  Taylor  when  arrangements  were  in  train.  "  The 
brethren  and  natives  all  greatly  need  quickening,  and  I  do. 
This  hot  weather  seems  to  relax  soul  as  well  as  body." 

Who  has  not  felt  it  ?  But  he  could  not  go  on  and  leave 
things  in  a  low  state  spiritually.  He  would  give  all  the  time, 
take  all  the  trouble  and  responsibility  of  arranging  the 
meetings,  in  faith  that  God  would  make  them  just  the 
blessing  needed.  And  when  at  last  his  visits  were  com- 
pleted and  he  was  in  the  midst  of  preparations  for  the  return 
to  England — taking  with  him  a  difficult  party  to  care  for  : 
one  sick  mother,  one  newly  widowed,  and  several  ailing 
children — he  left  everything  to  co-me  himself  and  take  part 
in  the  Conference,  as  if  it  were  the  only  concern  upon  his 
mind. 

And  that  first  Union  Conference  of  native  pastors  and 
evangelists,  it  is  good  to  record,  exceeded  even  his  expecta- 
tions. Three  English  and  three  American  societies  were 
represented,  the  delegates  coming  from  all  parts  of  the 
province,  and  the  meetings  were  entirely  in  Chinese. 


«  FOR  JESUS'  SAKE  "  309 

"  It  was  one  of  the  most  interesting  conferences  I  have  ever 
attended,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote,  "  and  we  were  both  surprised  and 
deUghted  at  the  ability  displayed  by  our  native  brethren.  .  ,  . 
When  it  is  remembered  that  all  these  men  were  themselves,  but 
a  few  years  ago,  in  heathen  darkness,  we  cannot  but  feel  en- 
couraged, and  look  for  yet  greater  things  in  the  future.  .  .  . 
May  God  hasten  the  time  when  such  meetings  shall  be  held  in 
every  province  of  the  Chinese  Empire." 

Joyful  was  the  reunion  just  before  Christmas  when  Mr. 
Taylor  reached  home  after  this  fourth  visit  to  China.  He 
had  been  away  almost  sixteen  months,  and  the  little  ones 
of  two  and  three  years  old  could  not  remember  him.  The 
elder  brothers  and  sister  were  fast  growing  up,  and  an 
adopted  daughter  had  been  added  to  the  family,  the  doubly- 
orphaned  child  of  Duncan,  the  pioneer  missionary  of  Nan- 
king. Seven  children  filled  the  little  home  to  overflowing, 
and  made  the  Christmas  season  full  of  gladness  to  the 
father's  heart. 

Not  that  he  had  much  time  to  spend  with  them.  After 
visiting  almost  every  station  in  the  Mission,  and  meeting 
every  fellow-worker  with  one  exception,^  Mr.  Taylor  had 
come  home  deeply  impressed  with  the  need  for  immediate 
reinforcements.  Twenty-four  men  and  at  least  six  women 
were  urgently  wanted,  and  for  that  number  he  was  praying — 
thirty  new  workers  to  go  out  if  possible  in  the  following  year 
(1878).  Among  the  candidates  awaiting  his  arrival,  several 
were  ready  to  go  forward,  and  Mr.  Taylor  was  soon  absorbed 
in  farewell  meetings,  which  brought  him  in  contact  with 
many  friends. 

"  I  am  praying  for  an  increase  of  £5000  a  year  in  our  income," 
he  wrote  to  a  senior  member  of  the  Mission  in  February,  "  and 
for  £2000  extra  for  outfits  and  passages.  Will  you  daily  join 
in  this  prayer  ?  We  are  daily  remembering  you  all  by  name 
before  the  Lord.  May  you  be  filled  with  the  Spirit,  and  all 
around  you  be  blessed  from  the  overflow.     '  My  cup  runneth 

^  The  one  member  of  the  Mission  he  had  not  met  on  this  visit  to  China 
was  Mr.  Broumton,  holding  the  fort  alone  in  the  distant  province  of  Kwei- 
chow — the  only  Protestant  missionary  south  of  the  Yangtze,  at  that  time, 
in  the  western  half  of  China. 


310         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

\  over  ' :  God  puts  these  words  in  our  mouth  ;  we  must  not  con- 
tradict them." 

Meanwhile  grievous  news  was  coming,  mail  by  mail,  of 
T /the  terrible  famine  in  North  China.  In  January  it  was 
estimated  that  six  million  people  were  starving,  and  the 
united  efforts  of  the  Chinese  Government  and  of  the  foreign 
Relief  Committee  were  wholly  inadequate  to  cope  with  the 
disaster.  In  public  meetings  and  through  the  press,  Mr. 
Taylor  was  making  known  the  facts,  with  the  result  that 
funds  were  coming  to  the  C.I.M.  freely  for  use  in  relief  work. 
But  more  than  money  was  needed.  Not  only  were  tens  of 
thousands  d5dng  of  starvation  ;  thousands  more  were  being 
sold  into  slavery — girls  and  young  women  literally  taken 
away  in  droves  by  cruel  traffickers  from  the  south.  Children 
were  perishing  in  multitudes  who  might  be  gathered  into 
orphanages  and  saved  for  time  and  eternity,  and  everywhere 
"  the  poor  suffering  women  were  accessible  as  never  before. 
Surely  the  time  had  come  when  missionary  women,  as  well 
as  men,  should  be  found  at  the  front  in  the  newly  opened 
provinces  of  inland  China  ! 

But  where  was  the  woman  who  could  take  the  lead  ? 
To  go  to  that  famine-stricken  region,  two  or  three  weeks' 
journey  from  the  coast,  was  no  easy  matter.  Some  one  with 
experience  was  needed ;  some  one  with  a  knowledge  of  the 
language,  fitted  to  help  and  care  for  younger  workers.  In 
China  there  was  no  one  in  the  C.I.M.  circle  free  and  suit- 
able ;  and  at  home  ?  Ah,  that  was  where  light  began  to 
come  for  Mr.  Taylor — but  at  such  a  cost ! 

Yes,  there  was  one  who  undoubtedly  combined  the 
qualifications  necessary.  Experienced,  prayerful,  devoted, 
with  a  knowledge  of  the  language  and  the  confidence  of  her 
fellow-workers,  Mrs.  Taylor  could  give  just  the  help  required. 
But  how  could  she  be  spared  from  home  ?  How  could  he 
/  let  her  go  so  soon  after  their  long  parting  ?  And  if  the 
sacrifice  was  great  for  him,  who  shall  say  what  it  meant  to 
the  mother's  heart  ?  At  first,  indeed,  she  could  not  see  it 
to  be  called  for.  Her  husband  in  poor  health  and  over- 
whelmed with  work  surely  needed  her,  to  say  nothing  of  the 
children.     Could  it  be  right  to  leave  him,  even  if  the  family 


"  FOR  JESUS'  SAKE  "  311 

were  provided  for  ?  The  struggle,  if  not  long,  was  desper- 
ately hard ;  but  for  her,  as  for  him,  only  one  issue  was 
possible.  A  little  worn  brown  note  -  book  tells  the  rest ; 
and  it  is  the  same  wonderful  story  that  every  truly  Christian 
heart  has  known,  of  God's  own  Word  meeting  the  inward 
need,  the  need  so  deep  as  to  be  voiceless  even  to  Him,  but 
none  the  less  understood. 

Point  by  point  all  her  difficulties  were  met,  her  questions 
answered,  until  she  knew  beyond  a  doubt  that  it  was  God 
Himself  Who  had  need  of  her  out  there  in  China.  And, 
even  then,  His  tender  care  went  further.  He  knew  the 
inward  shrinking,  the  hours  of  testing  that  must  come. 

"  I  felt  like  Gideon,"  Mrs.  Taylor  wrote,  "  that  my  strength 
in  China  would  be,  '  Have  not  I  commanded  thee  ?  '  and  I. 
wanted  some  fleeces  to  confirm  my  faith,  and  as  a  token  for 
those  who  would  have  me  remain  at  home.  I  asked  God  to  give 
me,  in  the  first  place,  money  to  purchase  certain  requisites  for 
outfit,  as  we  had  none  to  spare  ;  and  further,  to  give  me  liberally, 
as  much  as  fifty  pounds,  so  that  there  might  be  money  in  hand 
when  I  went  away." 

The  very  next  afternoon  (Thursday)  a  friend  called  to  see 
Mrs.  Taylor,  and  before  leaving  said  : 

"  Will  you  accept  a  little  gift  for  your  own  use,  to  get 
anything  you  may  need  for  the  journey  ?  " 

And  the  sum  put  into  her  hand  was  ten  pounds — just 
the  allowance  made  by  the  Mission  at  that  time  towards  the 
cost  of  outfit. 

No  one  knew,  not  even  Mr.  Taylor,  about  the  fleeces ; 
and  with  a  wondering  heart  she  waited.  Several  days 
passed  without  bringing  the  further  answer  to  her  prayer. 
Perhaps  the  Lord  was  withholding  it  that  she  might  trust 
Him  without  so  much  confirmation  ? 

"  Yesterday  (Sunday),"  she  continued,  in  a  letter  to  Mr. 
Taylor's  mother,  "  I  felt  He  would  provide  at  the  right  time, 
and  was  very  happy — realising  that  He  is  my  Helper,  and  that 
in  going  I  should  learn  more  of  Him  and  find  His  strength  made 
perfect  in  my  utter  weakness." 

Glancing  next  morning  over  the  letters  to  see  if  there  was 
one  that  might  contain  a  gift  for  themselves,  she  came  to 


312         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

the  conclusion  that  there  was  not,  and  opened  first  a  letter 
from  Barnsley,  thankful  that  Mr.  Taylor's  parents  approved 
the  step  they  were  taking.  And  lo,  from  his  father  was 
enclosed  a  cheque  for  fifty  pounds  !  Overwhelmed  with  joy 
and  thankfulness,  she  ran  to  Mr.  Taylor's  study  :  but  he 
was  not  alone. 

"  When  I  returned  '*  (for  she  was  called  away),  "  he  was 
reading  your  letter,  and  considering  how  the  Lord  would  have 
the  money  applied.  He  knew  we  needed  it,  but  never  takes 
anything  for  ourselves  that  is  left  optional. 

"  '  Oh,'  I  said,  '  that  fifty  pounds  is  mine  !  I  have  a  claim 
on  it  that  you  do  not  know  of.'  And  I  told  him  all  the  circum- 
stances. 

"So  we  accept  it  with  warmest  thanks  to  you,  and  with 
gratitude  to  God.  I  had  said  to  the  Lord  :  '  Fifty  pounds  just 
now  would  be  worth  more  than  a  fortune  to  me  at  another  time. 
It  would  be  a  guarantee  of  all  other  needs  being  met.'  I  feel 
it  is  such  tender  consideration  for  my  weakness  to  send  it ;  and 
you  and  dear  father  may  be  assured,  when  I  am  far  away,  that 
the  memory  of  this  gift  will  be  a  continual  strength  and  help 
to  me." 

Meanwhile,  Mrs.  Broomhall,  who  was  away  from  home  at 
the  time,  had  heard  of  the  proposed  step,  and  was  deeply 
moved.  With  the  care  of  the  Mission-house  and  candidates, 
as  well  as  her  own  family  of  four  boys  and  six  girls,  it  would 
have  been  easy  and  true  to  think  that  her  hands  were  full. 
But  hers  was  the  love  that  "  never  faileth,"  and  in  a  busy, 
practical  life  she  knew  the  secret  of  so  waiting  upon  God  as 
to  have  her  strength  daily  renewed. 

''  If  Jenny  is  called  to  go  to  China,"  she  said  without 
hesitation,  "  I  am  called  to  care  for  her  children." 

Nothing  could  have  given  Mrs.  Taylor  greater  comfort ; 
for  with  such  loving  supervision  close  at  hand,  even  the  little 
ones  could  remain  with  their  father,  and  the  home-life  be 
carried  on  as  usual.  But  there  was  yet  more  that  the  Lord 
had  it  in  His  heart  to  provide.  The  very  day  before  Mrs. 
Taylor  left  England,  accompanied  by  several  new  workers,^ 
a  letter  came  to  hand  from  an  old  friend  expressing  warm 

'  The  party,  which  included  Adam  Dorward,  J.  H.  Riley,  and  S.  R. 
Clarke.men  of  notable  usefulness  in  later  years,  sailed  on  the  2nd  of  May  1878. 


MRS.    HUDSON    TAYLOR    {uee  J.    E.    FAULDING). 


To  /ace  page  312. 


"  FOR  JESUS'  SAKE  "  313 

sympathy  with  the  object  she  had  in  view.  It  contained  a 
gift  toward  the  Orphanage  she  hoped  to  found  ;  and  to  her 
surprise  on  looking  at  the  cheque,  it  proved  to  be  for  a 
thousand  pounds. 

"  Please  enter  it  anonymously,"  he  wrote.  "  It  does  not 
represent  any  superabundance  of  wealth,  as  my  business  affairs 
will  miss  it.  But  if  you,  for  Christ's  sake,  can  separate,  I  cannot 
give  less  than  this."  -^ 

It  was  a  great  step  forward  when,  the  heat  of  summer 
over,  Mrs.  Hudson  Taylor  set  out  from  Shanghai  to  go  to  the 
inland  province  of  Shan-si.  Two  younger  ladies  accompanied 
her — Miss  Home  and  Miss  Crickmay — and  they  travelled 
under  the  experienced  escort  of  Mr.  Bailer.  Never  before 
had  foreign  women  attempted  to  go  so  far  inland,  and  with 
their  work  in  the  famine-stricken  region,  a  little  light  began 
to  shine  for  the  women  and  children  of  that  vast  waiting 
world — the  hundred  and  eighty  millions  of  the  far  interior. 
When  the  news  reached  Mr.  Taylor  by  cablegram  - 

"  I  cannot  tell  you  how  my  heart  and  prayers  go  with  you 
all,"  he  wrote.  "  The  Lord  he  glorified  in  this  movement.  .  .  . 
I  do  thank  God  for  giving  me  such  a  wife  as  alone  could  satisfy 
my  heart — one  to  whom  the  Lord  Jesus  is  more  than  husband ; 
to  whom  His  work  is  more  than  love  and  enjoyment  here.  I 
know  He  is  blessing  and  will  bless  our  dear  children  ;  I  know  He 
is  blessing  and  will  bless  you  ;  I  know  He  is  blessing  and  will 
bless  me  too,  and  the  work.  And  I  am  glad  to  think  I  am  not 
selfishly,  for  my  own  help  or  enjoyment,  depriving  you  of  the 
eternal  fruit  of  what  you  are  now  sowing.  What  will  not  the 
harvest  be  !  " 

For  himself,  meanwhile,  the  sacrifice  involved  was  very 
real.  As  long  as  Mrs.  Broomhall  could  come  in  and  out 
freely  from  her  home  next  door,  he  did  not  feel  the  burden  of 
family  care ;  but  when  his  own  children  developed  whoop- 
ing-cough, calling  for  the  isolation  of  his  household,  more 

^  The  day  after  Mrs.  Taylor  had  sailed,  the  one  who  was  missing  her 
most  sorely  wrote  :  "  Your  dear  Mother  has  borne  up  bravely,  and  says 
she  is  '  proud  of  you.'  I,  darling,  am  grateful  for  the  grace  which  has 
taken  you  from  me,  and  which  I  count  on  to  sustain  you  aU  the  way.  He 
will  not  fail  me  either,  or  the  work  He  has  given  us  to  do.  We  will  trust 
Him — in  all  and  for  all." 


314         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

responsibility  naturally  fell  to  his  share.  In  addition  to 
very  full  days  of  work,  Mr.  Taylor  had  many  an  anxious 
night  of  watching  by  little  bedsides  from  which  the  mother 
was  absent.  No  "  mere  man  "  could  have  done  more,  or 
done  it  better,  and  it  bound  the  children  to  him  in  a  way  that 
made  it  well  worth  while  ;  but  it  was  a  tax  on  time  and 
strength,  of  which  he  had  Uttle  enough  to  spare. 

"  I  took  Ernie  down  to  Bamet,"  he  wrote  when  they  were 
getting  better.  "  He  enjoyed  himself  famously,"  in  the  home 
of  Mrs.  Taylor's  parents,  "  and  I  am  somewhat  better  for  it  too. 
I  enjoyed  the  quiet  and  the  hay  field,  and  putting  him  to  bed 
at  night,  and  praying  with  him  and  dressing  him,  etc.  He 
clung  to  me  so  tenderly." 

The  answer  to  the  petition  in  which  many  were  uniting 
for  thirty  new  workers  in  the  current  year  was  at  the  same 
time  bringing  added  burdens.  At  the  Annual  Meetings 
(May  27)  Mr.  Taylor  was  able  to  tell  of  many  candidates, 
some  of  whom  seemed  of  unusual  promise,  but  of  a  balance 
in  hand,  all  obligations  being  met,  of  only  twenty-nine  pounds. 
The  money  Mrs.  Taylor  had  given,  with  his  hearty  con- 
currence, for  pioneering  work  in  the  inland  provinces  (;f400o) 
had  carried  them  through  the  two  years  since  the  Chefoo 
Convention.  But  the  extensive  itinerations  of  that  period — 
involving  thirty  thousand  miles  of  travel — had  exhausted 
it,  and  the  income  of  the  Mission  had  not  yet  correspondingly 
increased. 

"  With  current  income  not  equal  by  so  large  a  sum  to  the 
expenses  of  the  work,"  Mr.  Taylor  said  on  that  occasion,  "  the 
question  might  well  be  asked,  '  Is  the  project  of  sending  out 
twenty  or  thirty  additional  labourers  at  all  a  prudent  one,  even 
if  men  and  women  who  appear  suitable  are  found  ?  ' 

"  Well,  we  have  looked  the  thing  in  the  face,  dear  friends, 
and  this  is  the  conclusion  we  have  come  to  :  with  the  current 
income  of  the  Mission  we  have  nothing  to  do,  but  with  God  we 
have  everything  to  do.  We  are  not  going  to  send  out  twenty  or 
thirty  new  missionaries,  or  one  ;  but  we  are  asking  God  to  send 
twenty  or  thirty.  If  He  sends  twenty  or  thirty  devoted  mis 
sionaries.  He  is  just  as  able  to  supply  them  as  He  has  proved 
faithful  and  loving  in  supplying  those  who  have  gone  hitherto 
...  Up  to  the  present,  God  has  carried  us  safely  through.  .  .  , 


"  FOR  JESUS'  SAKE  "  315 

As  for  the  future — if  by  His  grace  He  will  only  keep  us,  individu- 
ally, Z^^^W^^  ^^  Him,  that  ensures  everything."  ^ 

That  he  was  deeply  feeling  the  responsibility  of  leader- 
ship in  a  mission  which  had  already  grown  beyond  the  desires 
and  hopes  with  which  it  was  founded,  is  evident  from  a  letter 
to  Mrs.  Taylor  of  a  few  weeks  later. 

"  I  have  been  praying  very  much  this  morning,"  he  wrote 
on  June  14,  "  for  a  wise  and  understanding  spirit,  and  for  large- 
ness of  heart,  and  organising  .capacity.  The  Lord  make  me 
equal  to  increasing  claims." 

Very  thankful  must  she  have  been  to  hear  of  a  break  that 
came  soon  after,  an  unexpected  holiday — the  first  he  had 
taken,  apart  from  sea  voyages,  during  the  twelve  years  since 
the  formation  of  the  Mission.  At  the  invitation  of  the 
Hon.  Miss  Waldegrave  and  Lady  Beauchamp,  who  gener- 
ously met  the  expense,  he  joined  their  family  party  in  the 
Engadine  for  two  or  three  weeks.  It  was  the  first  time  he 
had  been  in  Switzerland,  and  many  letters  tell  of  the  delight 
with  which  he  drank  in  the  beauty  of  lake,  mountain,  and 
Alpine  flowers,  and  the  glacier  air  which  seemed  to  give  him 
new  life.  With  true  consideration,  his  friends  left  him  free 
to  attend  to  correspondence  or  wander  as  he  would  in  the 
pine  forests  on  the  mountain  side.  Even  there  Mission 
matters  followed  him — as  many  as  twenty-five  letters  being 
received  one  day,  most  of  which  required  answers.  Com- 
parative leisure  enabled  him  to  write  freely  to  Mrs.  Taylor, 
among  others,  whose  absence  he  was  specially  feeling  amid 
those  beautiful  scenes. 

"  Every  day  I  look  at  the  Httle  Bible  marker  you  gave  me, 
with  the  words  '  For  Jesus'  sake,'  "  he  wrote  from  Sils  Maria 
(Aug.  27),  "  and  I  am  thankful  for  the  reminder.     It  is  not  for 

^  How  real  were  Mr.  Taylor's  convictions  on  this  point  may  be  judged 
from  the  unstudied  expression  of  his  feelings  in  a  letter  to  Mrs.  Taylor 
of  September  20  : 

"  Nothing  is  coming  in  for  the  general  fund  scarcely  ;  but  this  is  usual 
at  this  time  of  year.  We  must  all  get  nearer  to  God  ;  we  must  all  abide 
in  Christ ;  our  lives  must  be  more  up  to  our  principles  and  privileges,  and 
all  will  be  well.  Let  us  trust  for  all,  and  we  shall  find  all.  God  can  bless 
each  member  of  the  Mission  ;  let  us  ask  it  in  faith,  and  expect  it.  Nothing 
else,  nothing  less  can  satisfy  Him  ;  nothing  less  must  satisfy  us." 


3i6         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

your  pleasure  or  mine  that  we  are  separated,  nor  for  money- 
making,  nor  for  our  children's  sake.  It  is  not  even  for  China, 
or  the  missionaries  or  the  Mission  :  no— for  Jesus'  sake.  He 
is  worthy  I  And  He  is  blessing  you,  and  is  making  the  people 
I  meet  so  kind  to  me,  one  and  all." 

When  they  reached  Pontresina,  it  was  the  glaciers  that 
attracted  him  most.  With  an  umbrella  for  the  sun  (China 
fashion) ,  a  few  biscuits  in  his  pocket  and  a  Bible  as  his  sole 
companion,  he  would  spend  most  of  the  day  on  or  near  them. 

"  The  effect  of  the  air  on  the  system  is  wonderful,"  he  con- 
tinued. "  I  could  not  possibly  have  conceived  it.  It  seems  to 
go  direct  to  the  seat  of  weakness,  and  carry  heahng.  ...  I  have 
been  thinking  to-day,  darling,  that  all  this  refreshment,  all  this 
kindness,  is  the  answer  of  God  to  your  prayers  for  me  ;  and  the 
thought  has  given  added  pleasure  to  all  I  have  enjoyed." 

Entering  into  every  detail  of  her  life  in  that  famine- 
stricken  region  of  North  China,  he  wrote  of  the  comfort  it 
was  to  think  of  her  as  "  a  weak  instrument  in  Almighty 
hands." 

"  Keep  loving  and  patient  with  aU,"  he  said  in  another  letter, 
"  especially  with  any  who  try  your  patience,  if  it  be  tried." 

And  every  letter  was  full  of  longing  to  be  with  her  once 
more — to  help  forward  the  work,  especially  in  the  inland 
provinces. 

Many  were  the  problems  thought  out  and  prayed  over 
in  those  mountain  solitudes.  A  critical  time  had  come,  he 
could  not  help  feeling,  in  the  history  of  the  Mission.  Prayer 
had  been  wonderfully  answered,  and  the  whole  interior 
opened  up  to  the  work  of  evangelists  ;  but  now  the  more 
responsible  step  had  to  be  taken  of  sending  women  inland, 
to  follow  up  w^hat  had  been  begun.  In  praying  for  the  first 
twenty-four  "  willing,  skilful  labourers  "  on  the  sands  at 
Brighton,  he  had  hardly  contemplated  this.  The  pioneer 
missionaries  would  marry  ;  it  was  well  they  should.  The 
converts,  many  of  them,  would  be  women.  There  would 
be  families  to  care  for — their  own  and  those  of  the  Christians. 
If  it  had  caused  an  outcry  when  men  were  sent  to  face  the 
loneliness  and  dangers  of  hfe  in  the  far  interior,  what  would 


"  FOR  JESUS'  SAKE  "  317 

happen  when  he  encouraged  single  ladies,  or  even  young 
married  women,  to  do  the  same  ?  Then  there  were  questions 
connected  with  the  home  organisation  of  the  growing  work. 
But  most  of  all  it  was  with  the  Lord  Himself  those  hours 
of  soul-refreshing  silence  were  occupied.  On  coming  down 
from  the  glacier  heights  to  the  level  of  the  lakes  once  more, 
he  wrote  to  a  Swiss  member  of  the  Mission  (from  Lausanne, 
September  13)  : 

May  God  keep  you,  and  not  only  keep  you—fill  you  more 
and  more,  and  keep  you  running  over  with  the  living  waters. 
The  one  thing,  I  judge,  to  bear  in  mind  is  that  it  has  "  pleased 
the  Father  that  in  Him  should  all  the  fulness  dwell."  Apart 
from  Him  we  have  nothing,  are  nothing,  cannot  bring  forth 
any  fruit  to  God.  He  will  not  give  some  of  His  riches  to  you 
and  some  to  me,  to  use  and  Uve  on  away  from  Himself.  But 
in  Him  all  is  ours.  With  Him  there  is  a  constant  feast  for  us. 
To  know  Christ  as  the  Bridegroom  is  most  blessed  ;  to  be  not 
betrothed,  and  having  occasional  visits,  but  married.  "  I  am 
with  you  alway,"  "  I  will  never  leave  thee,"  "  I  will  not  fail  thee, 
nor  forsake  thee  " — such  are  now  His  messages  of  love  to  us. 

Upon  the  many  meetings  that  awaited  Mr.  Taylor's 
return  to  England  in  September  we  must  not  dwell,  nor  upon 
the  remarkable  answers  to  prayer  that  facilitated  the  out- 
going of  all  the  thirty  asked  for  and  given  in  1878.  Twenty- 
eight  new  missionaries  actually  sailed  before  the  close  of  the 
year,  and  several  others  were  accepted  to  follow  shortly. 
Not  one  really  suitable  candidate  was  declined  for  lack  of 
funds,  though  some  had  to  be  told  that  there  was  not  a 
penny  in  hand  to  send  them  out.  But  again  and  again  the 
Lord's  provision  came  ear-marked,  so  to  speak,  to  meet  the 
special  need.^ 

*  The  very  day  one  October  party  sailed,  for  example,  Mr.  Taylor 
wrote  to  two  young  men  of  much  promise,  accepting  them  for  work  in 
Shan-si.  Although  he  had  nothing,  as  he  frankly  told  them,  toward  the 
expense  of  passages  and  outfits,  he  invited  them  to  come  to  London  with 
a  view  to  an  early  departure.  These  communications  were  posted  at  5.15 
P.M.,  and  by  the  nine  o'clock  delivery,  that  same  evening,  a  letter  was 
received  from  Lord  Radstock  (then  in  Stockholm)  enclosing,  among  other 
gifts,  the  sum  of  one  hundred  pounds  to  send  two  new  workers  to  the  famine- 
stricken  province  of  Shan-si.  Thus,  even  before  the  young  men  could 
set  out  in  faith  for  London,  the  money  needed  was  in  hand  and  the  way 
open  for  them  to  go  forward. 


3i8         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

And  in  matters  more  perplexing  than  finance,  help  was 
given  that  cleared  the  way  for  Mr.  Taylor's  return  to  China. 
The  Council  was  strengthened  by  the  addition  of  Mr.  William 
Sharp — now  its  senior  member ;  and  Mr.  McCarthy,  who 
was  finding  important  openings  for  deputation  work,  under- 
took the  sub-editing  of  China  s  Millions.  More  important 
still  was  the  acceptance  of  the  post  of  Home  Director  by 
Mr.  Theodore  Howard — Chairman  of  the  Council  and  a  life- 
long friend  of  the  Mission.  The  appointment  of  Mr.  B. 
Broomhall  as  General  Secretary  recognised  the  invaluable 
service  he  had  rendered  at  Pyrland  Road  for  the  last  three 
years ;  while  Mrs.  Broomhall  continued  to  care  for  the 
outgoing  and  returning  missionaries  and  the  seventeen 
children. 

There  were  still  circumstances  that  called  for  prayer, 
and  no  lack  of  difficulties  to  be  met  both  in  England  and  in 
China. 

"  I  do  not  expect  an  easy  time  of  it,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  home 
to  Mr.  Broomhall  from  Hongkong,  "  and  but  for  the  precious 
truth,  *  My  strength  is  made  perfect  in  weakness,'  I  should  be 
almost  afraid  to  arrive  in  my  present  weak  state.  I  am  very 
glad  that  our  fast-day,  May  26th,  is  near,  and  shall  look  for  a  large 
outpouring  of  spiritual  blessing  in  connection  with  it.  God  is 
with  us  ;  let  us  only  walk  humbly  with  Him  and  all  will  be 
brought  round.  You  will  pray  for  me,  will  you  not  ?  The  all- 
important  thing  is  to  improve  the  character  of  the  work,  and 
to  deepen  the  piety,  devotion,  and  success  of  the  workers  ;  to 
remove  stones  of  stumbling,  if  possible  ;  to  oil  the  wheels  where 
they  stick  ;  to  amend  whatever  is  defective  and  supplement 
as  far  as  may  be  what  is  lacking  ;  no  easy  matter  where  suitable 
men  are  wanting,  or  only  in  course  of  formation.  That  I  may 
be  used  of  God,  at  least,  in  some  measure,  to  bring  these  things 
about  is  my  hope  ;  but  I  shall  need  your  prayers  ;  for  God's 
wisdom,  God's  grace,  God's  strength  alone  can  suffice :  but  they 
will  suffice." 


CHAPTER  XXII 

HE   GOETH   BEFORE  THEM 
1879-1880.     Aet.  47-48. 

Mrs.  Hudson  Taylor  had  come  to  Shanghai.  All  the  way 
from  Shan-si  she  had  travelled  upon  an  uncertainty — yet 
sure  in  her  own  mind  that  she  was  being  led  of  God.  Was 
her  husband  on  his  way  to  China  ?  Was  he  ill  and  needing 
her  urgently,  as  she  had  seen  in  that  curiously  vivid  dream  ? 
And  how  could  she  help  him  best  ? 

A  thousand  miles  away  from  the  port  at  which  he  would 
land,  she  had  felt  painfully  out  of  reach  ;  and  though  he  had 
suggested  joining  her  there,  to  see  something  of  the  northern 
provinces,  she  knew  how  unlikely  it  was  that  he  would  be 
able  to  escape  from  claims  nearer  the  coast.  The  work  she 
had  undertaken  for  the  famine  orphans  was  well  established, 
and  her  companions  were  now  able  to  carry  it  on.  Two  of 
the  missionaries  at  the  capital  (Tai-yuan-fu)  had  been  joined 
by  their  wives,  so  that  there  was  no  longer  the  same  need  for 
her  presence.  And  that  dream,  fitting  in  with  other  elements 
of  guidance,  had  decided  her  to  cross  the  mountains  and 
return  to  Shanghai,  that  she  might  be  at  hand  in  case  of 
need. 

It  led  also  to  definite  and  earnest  prayer  for  Mr.  Taylor, 
which  was  sorely  needed.  For  he  was  on  his  way  out,  as 
we  have  seen,  and  in  the  Indian  Ocean  had  become  so 
seriously  ill  that  a  Singapore  doctor  doubted  whether  he 
could  reach  Hongkong  alive.  He  decided  to  go  on,  how- 
ever ;  and  the  news  that  reached  him  in  the  latter  port  of 
Mrs.  Taylor's  being  actually  in  Shanghai,  when  he  had 

319 


320         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

thought  her  far  away  and  inaccessible,  was  so  cheering  that 
it  helped  him  over  the  rest  of  the  voj^age.  Her  letters  too 
were  encouraging. 

"  I  have  been  spreading  before  the  Lord,"  she  had  written 
soon  after  reaching  Shanghai,^  "  some  of  the  numerous  difficul- 
ties that  await  you,  and  thinking  of  them  with  something  of 
rejoicing.  What  a  platform  there  will  be  for  our  God  to  work 
and  triumph  on  ;  and  how  clearly  we  shall  see  His  hand  !  May 
He  keep  you  without  care,  and  bring  you  up  like  Jehoshaphat, 
your  mouth  filled  with  songs  of  praise  in  prospect  of  certain 
victories.  .  .  .  Oh,  the  resources  of  the  grace  you  have  to  draw 
upon  1  '  According  to  His  riches  in  glory,'  .  .  .  '  According 
to  your  need.'  Surely,  to  need  much  grace  and  therefore  to 
have  much  given  is  not  a  thing  to  be  troubled  about,  is  it  ? 

"  Don't  you  think  that  if  we  set  ourselves  not  to  allow  any 
pressure  to  rob  us  of  communion  with  the  Lord,  we  may  live 
lives  of  hourly  triumph,  the  echo  of  which  will  come  back  to  us 
from  every  part  of  the  Mission  ?  I  have  been  feeling  these 
last  months  that  of  all  our  work  the  most  important  is  that  unseen 
— upon  the  mount  of  intercession.  Our  faith  must  gain  the 
victory  for  the  fellow-workers  God  has  given  us.  They  fight 
the  seen,  and  we  must  fight  the  unseen  battle :  and  dare  we 
claim  less  than  constant  victory  when  it  is  for  Him,  and  we  come 
in  His  Name  ?  " 

Met  by  Mr.  Weir  with  his  private  launch,  Mr.  Taylor  was 
carried  without  fatigue  to  the  very  door  of  the  Mission- 
house,  then  on  the  Soo-chow  Creek,  where  he  found  quite  a 
party  awaiting  him.  Each  one  had  special  needs  or  problems 
to  be  dealt  with  ;  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Dalziel,  in  charge  of  the 
home  and  business  department,  were  keeping  open  house 
for  seamen,  among  whom  an  encouraging  work  was  going  on. 
This  thoroughly  suited  the  earnest  band  Mr.  Taylor  had 
brought  with  him,  several  of  whom  decided  to  give  their 
first  night  in  China  to  prayer  and  praise.  They  gathered  in 
a  room  next  to  Mr.  Taylor's,  and  had  a  memorable  time, 
full  of  liberty  and  blessing,  never  reahsing  that  to  the  invahd 
on  the  other  side  of  the  partition  it  meant  hours  of  wakeful- 
ness and  pain.  Nothing  would  have  induced  Mr.  Taylor  to 
stop  them,  however  ;    he  rejoiced  far  too  much  in  their 

»  A  letter  dated  March  i8,  1879. 


HE  GOETH  BEFORE  THEM  321 

fervent  spirit,  but  it  proved  scarcely  the  best  preparation, 
in  his  own  case,  for  the  busy  days  that  followed. 

At  first,  in  the  joy  of  reunion,  he  was  full  of  plans  for 
visiting  the  stations  and  helping  the  new  missionaries  who 
had  been  sent  out  (thirty-four  in  number)  during  his  recent 
visit  to  England.  But  the  strain  of  all  that  had  to  be 
attended  to  was  more  than  he  could  bear,  and  within  a 
fortnight  he  was  so  ill  that  again  life  itself  was  hanging  in 
the  balance.  The  physician  consulted  had  little  hope, 
unless  he  could  at  once  be  removed  to  a  more  bracing  climate. 
Summer  was  coming  on,  and  it  was  useless  to  attempt  to 
remain  anywhere  in  the  Yangtze  valley.  The  northern 
port  of  Chefoo,  with  its  freedom  and  freshness,  he  recom- 
mended as  the  best  available  refuge  :  but  how  to  get  there 
was  the  difficulty. 

It  was  an  anxious  journey,  from  the  Monday  evening 
when  they  went  on  board,  through  the  long  hours  of  Tuesday 
— moving  slowly  in  a  damp  sea-mist,  while  the  fog-horn 
droned  its  melancholy  sound — and  especially  that  second 
night  when  Mrs.  Taylor  was  almost  at  her  wits'  end.  All 
the  milk  she  had  brought  for  the  invalid  had  curdled,  in 
spite  of  being  boiled  and  put  in  the  ice-chest,  and  some  things 
he  might  have  fancied  she  reproached  herself  for  having 
failed  to  bring.  He  was  so  low  that  he  could  hardly  take 
anything,  and  she  feared  he  would  be  too  weak  to  be  moved 
from  the  steamer  when  Chefoo  was  reached.  Weary  though 
she  was  she  dared  not  sleep,  for  Mr.  Taylor  could  do  nothing 
for  himself,  and  from  time  to  time  was  very  faint. 

*'  In  my  distress  I  cried  to  God  to  help  me,*'.„she  wrote  to  Miss 
Desgraz  at  Chin-kiang.  "  I  asked  Him  either  to  enable  Mr. 
Taylor  to  take  the  food  we  had,  or  to  show  me  what  I  could  get 
for  him,  or  to  make  him  better  without  anything — as  He  had 
said,  '  Man  doth  not  live  by  bread  alone.'  I  pleaded  too  that 
the  fog  might  clear  away,  and  that  God  who  loved  His  own  child 
would  undertake  for  him,  as  the  responsibility  was  too  great 
for  me  to  bear.  I  thought  of  '  God  is  a  refuge  and  strength,  a 
very  present  help  in  trouble,'  and  '  Yea,  though  I  walk  through 
the  valley  of  the  shadow  of  death,  I  will  fear  no  evil,  for  Thou  art 
with  me.'  '  He  doeth  all  things  well '  came  to  my  mind  with 
comfort,   and  '  AH  the  way  my  Saviour  leads  me.'    Then  I 

Y 


322         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

turned  to  Mr.  Taylor  and  was  able  to  prevail  upon  him  to  take  a 
little  food.  In  the  night  he  had  a  cupful  of  arrowroot,  and  next 
day  was  decidedly  better.  .  .  .  That  afternoon  I  went  on  deck, 
and  fell  in  with  an  officer  with  whom  I  was  able  to  have  some 
earnest  talk  about  spiritual  things.  I  began  about  the  improve- 
ment in  the  weather,  and  he  said :  '  Yes,  it  was  remarkable  ! 
About  9.30  the  fog  cleared  right  away,  and  we  had  a  splendid, 
moonlight  night.' 

**  It  was  between  9  and  9.30  that  I  had  been  praying  about 
it,  before  going  to  rest." 

Next  morning  she  could  not  but  feel  a  little  anxious  as 
they  neared  Chef 00.  The  vessel  was  only  staying  an  hour, 
to  discharge  passengers  and  cargo,  and  there  had  been  no 
time  to  make  arrangements  as  to  where  to  take  the  patient 
on  landing.  Eagerly  she  looked  out  for  the  Customs  House 
officer,  a  kindly  Christian  man  whose  acquaintance  she  had 
made  on  her  recent  journey  from  Shan-si ;  but  when  his 
boat  came  alongside  Mr.  Ballard  was  not  on  board.  The 
illness  that  kept  him  at  home  deprived  her  of  a  helping  hand 
when  one  was  most  needed  ;  and  for  the  moment  it  seemed 
desolate  to  transfer  their  belongings  to  a  native  sampan 
and  take  Mr.  Taylor  ashore,  ill  as  he  was,  with  no  idea  where 
to  go.  Had  it  not  been  for  the  fog,  however,  their  vessel 
would  have  come  in  some  hours  earlier,  and  they  would  have 
had  to  land  in  the  middle  of  a  cold  night.  So  the  morning 
sunshine  was  a  token  of  the  loving  care  of  One  Who  had 
gone  before  them,  and  to  Whom  their  every  need  was  known. 

Lying  there  in  the  little  boat  while  his  companions  went 
in  search  of  quarters,^  how  far  was  Mr.  Taylor  from  imagin- 
ing all  that  his  illness  and  forlorn  arrival  were  to  mean  of 
help  and  comfort  for  his  fellow-labourers !  He  had  come 
to  China  full  of  hope  for  extension,  especially  in  the  field  of 
Women's  Work.  The  success  that  had  attended  Mrs. 
Taylor's  efforts  proved  that  the  interior  was  no  less  accessible 
to  women  missionaries  than  to  men  ;  and  having  sent  his 
own  wife  first,  he  felt  the  more  free  to  encourage  others  in 

*  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  were  accompanied  on  this  journey  by  Mr.  J.  J. 
Coulthard,  one  of  the  party  just  arrived  from  England  who  was  much 
with  them  this  summer,  acting  as  Mr.  Taylor's  secretary  ;  and  who  after^ 
wards  became  his  son-in-law. 


HE  GOETH  BEFORE  THEM  323 

following  her  example.  But  it  was  a  great  task  that  lay 
before  him,  a  great  responsibihty,  calling  for  all  he  could 
give  of  time  and  strength.  Did  it  not  mean  coming  into 
personal  touch  with  the  new  workers,  as  well  as  gathering 
up  the  threads  at  all  the  older  stations,  that  he  might  know 
where  reinforcements  were  most  needed  and  who  could  best 
be  spared  for  the  forward  movement  ?  And  here  he  was, 
laid  aside,  able  to  do  nothing ;  and  though  happily  he  did 
not  know  it,  long  months  were  to  elapse  ere  he  would  leave 
that  silent  shore  again. 

That  silent,  waiting  shore — how  much  of  help  it  was  to 
afford  in  the  practical  problem  of  reaching  the  far  interior 
with    the    Gospel !     Scattered   homes,    missionary   homes, 
centres  of  light  and  love  among  the  people — yes,  that  was 
what  he  longed  to  see  all  over  inland  China.     And  what 
about  the  little  children  sent  in  love  to  such  homes  ;   sent 
to  be  not  only  their  parents'  joy  and  comfort,  but  an  in- 
calculable help  in  the  work  to  which  their  Uves  were  given  ? 
What  about  the  need  that  must  arise  in  the  not  distant 
future  for  a  more  favourable  chmate  for  those  Httle  ones 
than  inland  cities  could  afford,  and  for  mental  and  physical 
training  that  should  not  separate  them  wholly  from  the 
influence  of  parents  who  must  remain  in  China  ?      What 
about  the  need  of  those  parents,  and  others  throughout  the 
Mission,  for  rest  and  refreshment  from  time  to  time,  and  for 
a  health  resort  in  cases  of  illness  like  his  own  ?     All  this  Mr. 
Taylor  could  foresee  but  dimly,  nor  did  he  then  imagine 
the  extensive  and  complete  equipment  of  buildings  that 
was  to  arise  on  that  far  sweep  of  shore — the  hospital,  sani- 
tarium, schools  of  the  Mission ;    the  bright,  breezy  centre 
of  young  life  from  which  incalculable  influences  for  good 
were  to  flow,  on  and  on  through  long  years  and  to  the  ends 
of  the  earth.     But  the  Lord  knew,  the  Lord  foresaw,  the 
Lord  planned  it  all.     And  was  He  not  beginning,  even  then, 
to  answer  the  countless  prayers  with  which  each  of  those 
young  lives  would  be  received  and  surrounded,  though  for 
love  of  Christ  the  parents  might  have  little  they  could  do 
for  their  children  but  pray.    Such  sacrifices  mean  much  to 
the  infinite  Father-heart, 


324        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

In  the  home  of  Mr.  Ballard,  meanwhile,  Mrs.  Taylor  had 
met  with  a  cordial  welcome.  His  illness  proved  only  a 
passing  indisposition,  and  he  and  his  wife  were  given  to 
hospitality.  They  were  young,  newly  married  people,  and 
had  room  for  visitors,  so  the  missionary  party  soon  found 
themselves  received  into  a  real  home,  as  paying  guests. 

"  Under  the  shadow  of  a  high  cliff  and  quite  on  the  sea- 
shore/' was  Mrs.  Taylor's  description  of  their  new  surround- 
ings. 

"  Mr.  Taylor  bore  the  moving  better  than  I  expected,"  she 
continued  to  Miss  Desgraz,  "  though  in  his  weak  state,  of  course, 
he  felt  it.  When,  however,  we  had  been  a  little  while  here,  the 
sense  of  rest  among  kind  people,  in  such  a  pleasant  spot,  seemed 
to  refresh  him,  and  every  hour  since  has  done  him  good.  It  is 
so  quiet  about  here,  with  only  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ballard.  Mr.  Taylor 
can  sit  on  the  verandah  and  drink  in  the  sea-air — looking  out 
on  the  hills  all  round  the  bay,  and  on  the  junks  and  steamers. 
The  sea-weed  smells  so  refreshing !  Has  not  God  been  good 
to  us  ?  " 

The  summer  that  followed  proved  exceptionally  trying. 
Few  could  remember  a  hotter  season  in  China.  Work  such 
as  Mr.  Taylor  had  planned,  down  in  the  Yangtze  valley, 
would  in  all  probability  have  cost  his  life  ;  and  the  illness 
of  one  and  another  made  him  long  to  share  with  them  the 
very  real  benefit  he  was  deriving  from  Chefoo.  Several  of 
the  newly-arrived  young  missionaries  were  sent  for  first  of 
all,  and  an  unused  building  known  as  *'  The  Bungalow  '* 
was  called  into  requisition.  With  three  small  rooms  and 
an  empty  warehouse  or  "go -down"  it  possessed  possi- 
bihties,  and  was  soon  occupied  by  a  student  party.  But, 
for  them,  it  was  found  possible  to  rent  premises  over  at  the 
Bluff — ^the  fine  headland  with  its  purely  Chinese  villages, 
across  the  bay.  And  this  arrangement  was  made  none  too 
soon  ;  for  even  before  the  young  men  could  vacate  it,  the 
Bungalow  was  needed  for  other  occupants. 

Far  away  in  Wu-chang,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Judd  were  breaking 
down  under  the  strain  of  their  work  and  the  overpowering 
heat,  and  it  seemed  as  though  they  and  their  family  would 
be  obliged  to  return  to  England.     "  Come  up  here  if  you 


HE  GOETH  BEFORE  THEM       325 

can/'  wrote  Mr.  Taylor,  telling  them  how  wonderfully 
Chefoo  was  answering  in  his  own  case  ;  but  he  had  to  pray 
that  their  way  might  be  opened,  as  he  had  no  money  to 
send  them  just  then  for  travelling.  Under  these  circum- 
stances, Mr.  Judd  was  glad  of  an  opportunity  to  sell  the 
furniture  they  would  no  longer  need  ;  and  with  the  proceeds 
took  his  suffering  wife  and  five  little  boys  down  the  Yangtze 
and  up  to  the  northern  port,  at  which  a  warm  welcome 
awaited  them. 

To  see  those  children  playing  on  the  beach  was  as  much 
joy,  almost,  to  Mr.  Taylor  as  to  their  own  parents,  and  he 
longed  to  bring  the  same  relief  to  other  fellow-workers  and 
their  families.  But  nothing  was  to  be  had  in  the  way  of 
accommodation,  save  The  Bungalow,  in  which  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Judd  were  ingeniously  making  the  best  of  circumstances. 
Boxes  and  packing-cases  they  turned  into  chairs  and  tables, 
in  default  of  better,  spreading  their  Chinese  bedding  on  the 
floor  at  night. 

"  There  was  no  furniture  to  be  had  in  Chefoo  in  those  days," 
wrote  Mr.  Judd,  "  save  one  kind  of  chair  made  of  willow.  It 
was  altogether  a  new  place  ;  besides  which,  we  had  no  money 
for  anything  except  necessaries.  Seeing  a  number  of  Chinese 
houses  at  no  great  distance  however,  I  went  over,  and  found  a 
shopman  selling  off  his  shelves  very  reasonably.  These  I  bought, 
and  adapted  to  our  requirements.  Some  of  them  did  for  beds, 
like  berths  on  a  ship,  and  didn't  our  boys  enjoy  them  !  I  can 
truly  say  we  lacked  nothing — ^though  it  was  a  case  of  picnicking 
on  the  floor  at  first,  which  we  did  very  wiUingly." 

When  things  had  got  thus  far,  Mr.  Taylor  was  so  much 
better  that  he  felt  he  must  go  down  to  Chin-kiang  to  see 
about  certain  rather  surprising  developments.  For  while 
he  had  been  laid  aside,  unable  to  do  anything  in  the  matter 
most  upon  his  heart,  the  Lord  Himself  had  been  working. 
His  time  had  come,  indeed,  for  opening  the  door  of  faith  to 
the  long- waiting  womanhood  of  the  recently  entered  pro- 
vinces. Cost  what  it  might,  the  Gospel  must  be  carried  to 
them  too  "  according  to  the  commandment  of  the  eternal 
God  "  ;  and  He  had  His  messengers  ready.  Providentially, 
it  was  the  pioneers  themselves  who  broke  the  ice.  After 
repeated  journeys,  the  far  interior  did  not  seem  to  them  so 


326         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

very  different  from  inland  districts  near  the  coast .  Prospered 
in  obtaining  houses,  they  were  quite  at  home  among  the 
people,  and  saw  the  advantage  of  having  some  settled 
stations.  What  more  natural  than  that  they  should  wish 
to  be  married,  and  take  the  first  foreign  women  to  those 
outlying  regions  as  their  own  home-makers  and  fellow- 
missionaries  ?  To  this  Mr.  Taylor,  who  had  himself  led 
the  way,  could  raise  no  objection.  Thus  when  he  came 
down  in  August  to  the  Yangtze  valley,  one  young  couple 
had  already  started  for  the  far  north-west,  and  others  were 
preparing  for  similar  journeys. 

Meeting  a  terrific  gale  on  the  way  from  Chef oo  to  Shang- 
hai, the  steamer  by  which  Mr.  Taylor  travelled  had  come 
very  near  shipwreck.  It  was  one  of  the  worst  typhoons 
recorded  on  that  stormy  coast,  and  for  some  time  even  Mr. 
Taylor  felt  doubtful  as  to  the  issue.  He  knew  the  vessel  was 
not  a  strong  one,  and  while  earnestly  praying  for  deliverance 
and  the  lives  of  all  on  board,  blew  up  his  swimming-belt  and 
put  it  on,  to  be  ready  for  the  worst.  And  then,  great  calm- 
ness came  to  him  in  the  assurance  that  his  prayers,  definitely 
offered  in  the  Name  of  Jesus,  would  be  answered. 

"  I  took  off  my  swimming  belt,"  he  wrote  next  day  (Aug.  i), 
"  turned  the  bedding  over  and  found  the  under  side  moderately 
dry,  and  taking  off  my  wettest  things  lay  down  in  the  others. 
...  I  had  a  good  night — a  much  more  quiet  and  restful  one 
than  the  night  before.  It  was  a  little  before  one  that  I  felt  God 
had  answered  prayer.  The  Captain  put  the  ship's  head  round, 
I  learn,  and  ran  before  the  wind  for  some  hours.  But  what 
interests  me  most  is  to  hear  from  one  of  the  ofi&cers  to-day  that 
the  barometer,  which  had  been  very  low,  began  to  rise  soon  after 
I  A.M.  I  had  asked  that  if  it  were  His  will,  the  Lord  would 
shorten  the  storm.  ...  It  was  of  course  some  time  later  before 
it  perceptibly  abated.  To  God  be  aU  the  thanks  and  praise. 
Will  He  not  go  on  to  help  in  all  things  ?  " 

A  busy  month  was  spent  in  Shanghai  and  Chin-kiang, 
with  visits  to  Yang-chow,  where  Mr.  Taylor  was  altering 
the  old  premises  to  fit  them  for  more  aggressive  work. 

"  It  does  seem  so  homelike,"  he  wrote  of  the  latter  place : 
*'  how  I  should  Uke  to  settle  there  for  the  remainder  of  my  days 
and  be  a  missionary  again  I  " 


HE  GOETH  BEFORE  THEM       327 

In  letter  after  letter  to  Mrs.  Taylor  he  spoke  of  being  so 
thankful  he  had  come  ;  of  seeing  the  Lord's  hand  manifestly 
working  in  the  removal  of  difficulties  and  the  solution  of 
problems  ;  of  his  purpose  to  go  on  to  Hankow,  despite  the 
fresh  heat-wave  that  could  not  last  long,  etc.  Then  came 
a  break  in  the  correspondence,  and  for  the  fourth  time  in  as 
many  months  it  looked  as  though  his  work  were  to  be  cut 
short,  his  earthly  service  ended.  Dysentery  returned  with 
the  overpowering  heat,  and  very  near  the  spot  where  his 
loved  ones  lay  sleeping  Hudson  Taylor  came  once  more  to 
the  borderland. 

But  the  life  that  had  not  yet  attained  its  widest  useful- 
ness was  still  prolonged.  Nursing  him  day  and  night  with 
the  utmost  devotion,  Rudland  managed  to  get  the  patient 
down  to  Shanghai  and  on  board  the  coasting  steamer,  and 
indeed  would  not  leave  him  till  he  was  safely  back  in  Chefoo 
once  more.  And  there  again  the  bracing  air  did  wonders, 
and  Mr.  Taylor  was  lured  into  spending  much  time  out  of 
doors  by  a  new  project  that  almost  thrust  itself  upon 
him. 

DeHghting  day  by  day  in  that  long  sweep  of  sandy  shore, 
he  and  his  fellovz-workers  could  not  but  see  how  much  it 
would  mean  to  the  Mission  to  have  a  sanitarium  there,  and 
some  day,  perhaps,  a  school  for  missionaries'  children.  But 
they  knew  from  experience  the  difficulty  of  obtaining  land 
in  China,  and  that  when  property  has  to  be  acquired  peace 
is  more  than  likely  to  be  destroyed.  They  contented  them- 
selves, therefore,  with  looking  longingly  at  the  hills,  where  a 
retired  spot  with  nicely  rising  ground  offered  an  attractive 
situation.  How  well  it  would  suit  them — with  its  fresh- 
water stream  running  down  to  the  shore  !  But,  for  the  time 
being,  they  could  only  pray.  They  did  not  often  go  over 
there  even,  knowing  how  prices  are  apt  to  go  up  if  any 
interest  is  shown  in  a  possible  purchase.  But  one  day  Mr. 
Taylor  was  walking  over  the  ground  with  Mr.  Judd  when  a 
farmer  came  up  and  asked,  to  their  surprise,  if  they  wanted 
to  buy  land.  They  had  just  been  sa5dng,  as  a  matter  of 
fact,  what  an  admirable  site  that  bean-field  would  afford,  if 
only  they  could  get  it. 


328        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

*'  Do  you  want  land  ?  "  repeated  the  man,  seeing  their 
hesitation. 

With  Httle  apparent  interest  they  indicated  that  they 
might  be  prepared  to  buy  some. 

**  Then  will  you  buy  mine  ?  "  was  the  next  surprise. 

He  was  offering  that  very  bean-field ;  and  at  no  un- 
reasonable price,  as  they  soon  discovered. 

**  Then  and  there  the  bargain  was  struck,"  recalled  Mr. 
Judd.  "  I  never  knew  a  piece  of  business  settled  so  easily. 
The  money  was  paid  and  we  got  the  field,  with  a  gully  and  fresh 
water  running  down  beside  it.  Then  neighbouring  farmers 
were  willing  to  sell  theirs  as  well ;  and  we  bought  all  we  wanted 
at  a  remarkably  fair  priee.  Now,  of  course,  it  is  much  more 
valuable." 

The  land  given  thus  in  answer  to  prayer,  it  was  a  question 
of  how  to  utilise  it  at  the  least  possible  expense  for  the 
purpose  of  a  sanitarium.  Stones,  brick  and  timber,  if 
brought  from  a  distance,  would  cost  a  good  deal,  and  locally 
little  or  nothing  was  obtainable. 

*'  Let  us  quarry  our  own  stone/'  said  Mr.  Taylor,  "  and 
make  bricks  as  we  require  them."  He  was  his  own  archi- 
tect, and  Mr.  Judd's  account  of  the  whole  proceeding — 
original  and  enterprising  as  it  was — is  not  lacking  in  interest. 

Neither  Mr.  Taylor  nor  I  had  any  experience  in  house-build- 
ing. We  employed  men  to  quarry  stone  out  of  the  gully,  and 
made  most  of  our  bricks  from  the  surface  soil,  which  did  well 
for  that  purpose.  Then  it  occurred  to  us  to  make  use  of  a  ship 
called  the  Christian  which  had  been  wrecked  in  the  bay.  It 
had  been  built  chiefly  of  oak  and  Norwegian  pine,  whic  h  served 
our  purpose  splendidly.  We  bought  a  large  part  of  the  wreck, 
using  the  deck  for  rafters  and  the  oak  for  heavy  beams.  A 
Shanghai  newspaper  remarked,  I  remember,  that  the  Christian 
had  ceased  going  to  sea,  and  had  joined  the  C.I.M. 

From  another  wreck,  the  Ada,  we  were  able  to  bu}'  teak, 
which  made  the  floors.  The  cabin-fittings  from  that  wreck 
came  in  most  usefully.  There  was  a  splendid  sideboard..  We 
bought  doors,  locks,  cupboards,  everything  we  hked  to  take, 
at  two  dollars  a  hundredweight.^  We  squared  the  doors  as  well 
as  we  could,  got  keys  for  many  of  the  locks,  and  they  answered 

*  The  dollar  was  3s.  gd.  that  summer. 


HE  GOETH  BEFORE  THEM       329 

all  right.  The  worst  of  the  teak  was  the  holes  that  the  bolts 
had  left.  We  filled  them  up,  but  the  filling  was  very  apt  to 
come  out,  leaving  openings  in  inconvenient  places.  I  do  not 
say  that  the  house  was  well  built,  but  it  was  wonderfully  good 
considering  our  lack  of  experience.  There  were  five  rooms 
upstairs  and  about  as  many  down,  with  outhouse  and  lean-to 
rooms  besides.  It  was  marvellously  cheap  ;  and  the  Europeans 
in  the  Settlement  were  amazed  at  the  rapidity  with  which  it 
was  put  up.  They  could  hardly  believe  their  eyes  when  they 
saw  it  finished  ! 

All  this  meant  a  new  lease  of  life  to  Mr.  Taylor.  The 
complete  change  of  occupation  and  long  hours  spent  in  the 
open  air  did  wonders  for  him  physically. 

*'  How  you  would  Uke  to  go  out  to  the  ground  and  see  the 
operations,"  Mrs.  Taylor  wrote  in  November.  "  It  is  quite  a  busy 
scene.  Builders,  brickmakers,  stonemasons  and  carpenters  all 
have  their  matting  tents,  while  others  you  might  find  occupied  by 
Mr.  Judd  and  Mr.  Coulthard,  or  Mr.  Taylor  and  Mr.  Hunt.  Look- 
ing well  after  the  men  is  necessary  to  save  expense  and  mistakes. 
The  young  men  are  finding  it  a  capital  school  for  the  language, 
and  are  looking  twice  as  robust  as  when  they  came  out.  The 
Gospel  is  explained  to  the  workmen  daily,  at  an  enlarged  sort 
of  family  prayers,  and  on  Sundays  they  rest,  at  half  pay,  and 
one  or  two  services  are  held  for  them.  The  young  men  find  it 
an  excellent  opportunity  for  living  Christ  as  well  as  speaking 
of  Him,  for  patience  is  often  exceedingly  tried.  The  front  of 
the  house  will  face  the  sea,  from  which  it  is  five  minutes'  walk, 
and  the  back  looks  on  the  hiUs.  .  .  .  It  is  so  bracing  and  pleasant 
here.    Mr.  Judd  is  hardly  like  the  same  person." 

It  long  stood,  that  simple,  first  construction  in  which 
began  the  justly  famous  Chef 00  Schools  of  to-day.  Two  of 
Mr.  Judd's  sons,  now  valued  members  of  the  Mission,  were 
the  first  pupils  ;  and  Lao  Chao,  converted  among  the  work- 
men on  the  building,  grew  into  the  trusted  head-servant  of  a 
large  staff  of  helpers.  For  gradually,  hospital  and  private 
houses,  school  after  school  and  the  new  sanitarium  have 
sprung  up,  transforming  those  sunny  slopes,  that  silent 
shore  into  a  scene  of  delightful  activity.  There,  with  its 
competent  teachers,  every  one  of  whom  is  a  full  member  of 
the  Mission,  the  C.I.M.  cares  for  its  children  from  Kinder- 


330         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

garten  up  to  College  years,  giving  them  a  thorough,  Christian 
education,  and  at  the  same  time  cherishing  family  relation- 
ships ;  brothers  and  sisters  meeting  from  the  various  schools, 
and  parents  coming  from  time  to  time  to  rest  in  the  sani- 
tarium. 

Far  in  the  future,  however,  were  these  developments  as 
the  year  1879  drew  to  a  close.  Busily  occupied  though  he 
was,  Mr.  Taylor  had  still  in  mind  the  special  purpose  with 
which  he  had  come  to  China ;  and  leaving  Mr.  Judd  in 
charge  of  building  operations  he  set  out,  as  soon  as  health 
was  re-established,  for  the  advance  post  of  the  Mission  at 
Wu-chang.  The  young  couples  who  had  left  for  the  interior 
some  months  previously  were  now  in  their  distant  homes, 
beginning  work  for  the  first  time  among  the  women  of  the 
western  and  north-western  provinces.  What  that  work 
would  mean,  Mr.  Taylor  largely  realised,  and  how  great 
would  be  the  need  for  sisterly  help  and  companionship. 
Never  in  all  the  history  of  the  Mission  had  he  been 
called  to  take  a  step  which  cast  him  more  in  faith 
upon  the  living  God.  What,  send  women — unmarried 
women,  young  and  defenceless — into  all  the  dangers  and 
privations,  the  hardship  and  loneliness  of  Hfe  in  the 
far  interior  of  China  ?  Let  them  take  those  perilous 
journeys  of  weeks  and  months  at  a  time,  and  condemn 
them  to  isolation  in  crowded  cities,  hundreds  of  miles 
from  any  other  foreigner  ?  The  responsibility  was  great 
indeed,  and  keenly  he  felt  it.  He  was  but  a  servant,  how- 
ever, not  the  Master.  And  if  women  were  waiting  to  go 
at  the  Master's  call,  surely  the  time  had  come  to  help  them 
rather  than  hinder. 

Travelling  by  mule-litter  with  Mr.  Coulthard  from  Chefoo 
to  the  Grand  Canal,  Mr.  Taylor  had  leisure  for  thought  and 
prayer  over  the  situation.  Three  and  a  half  weeks  brought 
them  to  Chin-kiang,  by  roughest  roads,  with  inns  so  poor 
that  they  even  had  to  share  their  accommodation  with  the 
mules  at  night,  when  those  voracious  animals  fell  to  eating 
the  straw  pillows  on  which  their  fellow-travellers  were 
sleeping.  Disturbed  as  might  be  their  rest,  however,  and 
chilly  as  were  their  comfortless  quarters  that  Christmas 


HE  GOETH  BEFORE  THEM  331 

season/  the  younger  missionary  never  failed  to  see,  if  he 
woke  early  enough,  the  little  candle  burning  that  told  of 
Mr.  Taylor's  quiet  hour  over  the  Word  of  God. 

And  it  all  came  about  so  naturally,  when  at  length 
Mr.  Taylor  reached  Wu-chang.  A  number  of  C.I.M.  people 
were  there,  for  various  reasons,  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Bailer 
in  charge.  Daily  they  met  for  Bible  reading  and  prayer, 
the  needs  of  the  lonely  workers  at  the  distant  outposts 
burdening  their  hearts.  A  thousand  miles  up  the  Yangtze, 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Nicoll  had  just  reached  Chung-king,  where  she 
was  the  only  foreign  woman  in  the  great  province  of  Sze- 
chwan.  For  hard  as  it  had  been  to  part,  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
George  Clark  had  gone  on  further — another  seventeen  days' 
journey  to  the  capital  of  Kwei-chow,  where  Mr.  Broumton 
was  holding  the  fort  alone.  This  latter  post  was  very 
distant,  very  isolated  and  Mr.  Trench,  on  his  next  evangel- 
istic journey,  was  to  call  in  and  see  the  little  party.  Yes, 
he  could  act  as  escort,  if  there  were  ladies  willing  and  ready 
to  go.  And  there  were.  Mrs.  William  McCarthy,  newly 
widowed,  whose  husband  had  been  designated  to  that  very 
province,  only  asked  to  give  her  life  to  what  was  to  have 
been  their  united  task ;  and  Miss  Kidd,  beloved  by  the 
Chinese  no  less  than  her  fellow-workers,  was  more  than 
willing  to  accompany  her.  So  the  week  of  meetings  was 
followed  by  one  of  busy  preparation. 

"  Such  a  venture  of  faith  as  it  was  I  "  said  Mr.  Coulthard, 
looking  back  with  more  understanding  than  he  or  any  of  the 
young  missionaries  could  have  had  at  the  time.  "  The  last 
meeting  to  commend  them  to  God  was  deeply  solemn.  Mr. 
Taylor  no  doubt  felt  it  as  we  could  not.  We  never  thought  of 
danger ;  but  he  reaUsed  what  might  be  involved,  and  his  heart 
was  moved  accordingly." 

For  the  route  decided  upon  lay  across  Hu-nan,  turbulent 
and  anti-foreign ;  and  in  addition  to  the  Chinese  Christian 
woman  who  had  volunteered  to  accompany  the  ladies, 
Mr.  Bailer  was  to  be  spared  to  reinforce  the  party.     This 

*  The  journey  occupied  from  December  9  to  January  3  (1880),  when 
they  rejoined  Mrs,  Taylor  at  Chin-kiang,  the  latter  having  gone  round  by 


332         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

practically  exhausted  the  resources  of  the  station,  and  when 
a  call  came  for  the  help  of  ladies  in  quite  another  direction, 
no  foreign  escort  was  available.  Mrs.  Taylor  had  just  come 
up-river,  with  a  young  worker  who  had  already  been  two 
years  in  China.  Miss  Fausset,  with  true  courage,  was  ready 
to  go  at  once  to  the  help  of  Mrs.  King  ;  but  it  meant  a  three 
months'  journey  by  house-boat,  without  coming  to  a  single 
place  at  which  there  were  foreigners,  and  there  was  no  one 
save  Miss  Wilson  to  accompany  her. 

Then  it  was  that  advancing  years  and  silvery  hair  came 
to  their  own  in  a  new  way ;  for  Miss  Wilson's  venerable 
appearance,  from  the  Chinese  point  of  view,  made  it  possible 
for  the  ladies  to  travel  without  foreign  escort,  and  they 
were  quite  prepared  to  undertake  the  journey  with  the  Lord 
alone  as  their  Protector.  It  is  easy  to  write  the  words, 
easier  still  to  read  them  with  passing  interest ;  but  only 
those  who  have  known  from  experience  what  such  journeys 
meant  in  the  early  days  can  at  all  appreciate  the  situation. 
Mr.  Taylor  knew ;  yet  he  encouraged  these  brave  women, 
and  assumed  the  responsibility  of  letting  them  go. 

Not  lightly,  however,  or  at  little  cost  did  he  go  through 
with  this  matter.  No  one  of  experience  being  left  in  the 
Mission-house,  he  engaged  the  boat  himself  and  made  all 
arrangements,  even  to  packing  food-baskets  and  rolling  up 
their  bedding  with  his  own  hands.  Delayed  after  they  had 
gone  on  board,  he  spent  the  first  night  with  them  among 
the  crowded  shipping  at  the  mouth  of  the  Han — sharing  the 
only  available  cabin  with  Miss  Wilson's  protege,  a  leper  lad 
rescued  at  Yang-chow,  who  had  become  an  earnest  Christian 
and  proved  invaluable  as  a  helper. 

"  I  complained,"  wrote  Miss  Fausset,  "  about  the  unpleasant 
odour  of  his  bedding,"  forgetting  the  hundred  and  one  other 
things  about  which  she  did  not  complain,  "  and  the  worst  of  it 
was  discarded  next  day.  But  Mr.  Taylor  had  slept  in  the  same 
compartment  with  the  poor  fellow  all  night." 

Seeing  that  the  vegetable  oil,  which  was  all  they  had 
been  able  to  procure  for  cooking,  made  their  food  un- 
palatable, Mr.  Taylor  went  ashore  next  morning  and  was 
gone  some  time. 


HE  GOETH  BEFORE  THEM       333 

"  When  he  returned,"  Miss  Fausset  continued,  "  he  was 
carrying  a  basket  on  his  arm  (having  no  servant  with  him)  in 
which  were  sweet  potatoes,  eggs  and  lard.  One  never  could 
have  thought  a  Httle  lard  capable  of  doing  so  much  good,  or 
making  so  enduring  an  impression  I  " 

When  the  boatmen  really  started  (March  i,  1880)  Mr. 
Taylor  still  remained  on  board  till  they  got  well  out  on  the 
Han  ;  then  after  a  helpful  time  of  prayer,  while  the  attention 
of  the  ladies  was  occupied,  he  slipped  into  his  little  sampan 
and  was  gone.  Never  were  travellers  more  faithfully  escorted 
than  by  his  prayers.  Day  and  night  he  went  with  them  in 
spirit,  as  they  had  the  comfort  of  knowing,  and  Miss  Fausset 
could  never  forget  the  earnestness  with  which  he  said  on 
meeting  her  again  : 

"  I  have  prayed  for  you  thousands  of  times." 
As  news  began  to  come  from  distant  stations  in  which 
these  and  other  pioneers  were  winning  their  way  to  the 
homes  and  hearts  of  the  people,  Mr.  Taylor  rejoiced  with 
new,  unutterable  joy. 

"  I  cannot  tell  you  how  glad  my  heart  is,*'  he  wrote  to  his 
mother  in  July,  "  to  see  the  work  extending  and  consolidating 
in  the  remote  parts  of  China.  It  is  worth  Hving  for  and  worth 
dying  for." 


CHAPTER  XXIII 

WOMEN  WHICH  LABOURED  WITH  ME  IN  THE  GOSPEL 

1880-1881.     Aet.  48-49. 

Back  in  the  terrible  days  of  the  Tai-ping  Rebellion,  Captain 
Yii  of  the  Imperial  army  was  stationed  for  a  short  time  in 
Ningpo,  one  of  the  famous  cities  of  his  own  province.  While 
there,  he  fell  in  with  preachers  of  "  the  Jesus  Doctrine,*'  and 
learned  something  of  the  teachings  of  Christianity.  Natur- 
ally a  thoughtful,  religious  man,  he  could  not  but  be  im- 
pressed, but  the  little  he  had  heard  left  him  with  no  clear 
knowledge  of  the  way  of  salvation.  Fifteen  long  years  went 
by  without  bringing  him  further  light ;  but  he  was  seeking, 
groping  after  the  truth,  and  doing  all  in  his  power  to  win  and 
help  others  to  win  "  the  favour  of  Heaven." 

Among  a  sect  of  reformed  Buddhists  strongly  opposed 
to  idolatry  he  had  found  kindred  spirits,  and  was  giving  all 
his  time  to  going  from  place  to  place  as  their  accredited 
agent,  though  without  remuneration.  His  preaching  was 
necessarily  rather  negative  than  positive — denouncing  the 
folly  and  sin  of  idol-worship,  and  proclaiming  the  existence 
of  one  true,  supreme  Ruler  of  the  universe,  the  only  God 
who  should  be  worshipped,  but  of  Whom  he  could  tell  his 
hearers  practically  nothing. 

He  was  growing  an  old  man  before,  in  an  inland  city 
(Kin-hwa-fu) ,  he  met  another  foreign  missionary.  Dr. 
Douthwaite  had  come  over  from  his  station  on  the  Tsien- 
tang  river,  and  with  Pastor  Wang  Lae-djiin  was  preaching 
daily  in  a  newly  opened  Gospel  hall.  Here  the  devout 
Buddhist  heard  in  all  its  fulness  the  glad  tidings  of  salva- 

334 


WOMEN  WHICH  LABOURED  IN  THE  GOSPEL  335 

tion — ^heard,  believed,  and  found  himself  a  new  creature  in 
Christ  Jesus.  After  his  baptism  a  year  later  (1876)  he  went 
down  to  Chii-chow-fu  to  be  under  Dr.  Douthwaite's  care, 
for  medical  treatment,  and  the  latter  was  rejoiced  to  see 
how  much  progress  he  had  made  in  knowledge  of  the  Word 
of  God. 

"  I  well  remember  how,  after  we  had  been  reading  the 
Scriptures  and  praying  together,"  he  wrote,  "  Yii  earnestly 
entreated  me  to  let  him  go  out  as  a  preacher  of  the  Gospel. 

"  *  I  have  led  hundreds  on  the  wrong  road,'  he  said,  *  and 
now  I  want  to  turn  them  to  the  Way  of  Truth.  Let  me  go. 
I  ask  no  wages  ;  I  do  not  want  your  money.  I  only  want  to 
serve  the  Lord  Jesus.'  " 

Three  weeks  later  this  ardent  missionary,  sent  out  with 
the  prayers  of  the  little  church  at  Chii-chow-fu,  returned 
with  his  first  convert.  He  had  crossed  the  watershed 
between  Che-kiang  and  the  adjacent  province  of  Kiang-si, 
and  in  the  beautiful  district  of  Yii-shan  had  visited  some  of 
his  former  disciples.  One  of  these  it  was  who  accompanied 
him  now — a  cheery  farmer,  also  named  Yii,  who  was  himself 
to  become  an  earnest  soul-winner. 

"  He  seemed  to  be  just  boiling  over  with  joy,"  recalled  Dr. 
Douthwaite.  "  As  soon  as  he  saw  me  he  fell  down  on  his  knees, 
bumped  his  head  on  the  floor,  and  said  how  grateful  he  was  that 
I  had  come  to  that  city. 

"  '  For  forty  years  I  have  been  seeking  the  Truth,'  he  said, 
'  and  now  I  have  found  it  1  ' 

"  He  was  one  of  the  many  in  China  who  are  dissatisfied  with 
all  they  have,  and  are  groping  in  the  dark  for  something  that 
can  really  meet  the  heart's  need.  Well,  this  man  earnestly 
requested  to  be  at  once  baptized. 

"  '  Oh,'  I  replied,  '  we  cannot  go  so  fast  !  We  must  know  a 
little  of  you  and  your  antecedents.' 

"  '  No,'  he  urged,  '  let  me  be  baptized  now.  I  am  an  old 
man,  and  have  come  three  days'  journey.  I  may  never  be  able 
to  travel  so  far  again.  I  beheve  everything  you  have  told  me 
about  the  Lord  Jesus.  There  is  no  reason  why  I  should  not  be 
baptized  to-day.' 

"  On  further  enquiry,  I  myself  could  see  none  ;  so  I  baptized 
him  and  he  went  away  rejoicing. 

**  But  he  did  come  back,  bringing  with  him  six  or  seven 


336        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

neighbours  to  whom  he  had  been  preaching  the  Glad  Tidings 
(Feb.  1877).  They,  too,  definitely  expressed  their  faith  in 
Christ,  saying  that  from  what  they  had  heard  they  were  con- 
vinced that  idolatry  was  false  and  sinful,  and  were  prepared  to 
give  it  up.  After  a  few  months'  testing,  I  had  the  joy  of  receiv- 
ing them  too  into  the  church." 

The  ex-Captain  meanwhile,  continuing  his  labours,  had 
been  led  to  another  man  from  the  same  district  whose  heart 
the  Lord  opened.  Travelling  to  Yii-shan  one  day,  carrying 
his  few  belongings,  he  had  joined  company  with  a  stranger 
who  soon  became  interested  in  his  conversation.  Perceiving 
the  old  "  Teacher  '*  to  be  a  good  man.  Farmer  Tung  insisted 
on  relieving  him  of  his  bundle  of  bedding,  etc.,  as  they  tramped 
along  together  mile  after  mile.  So  fully  did  the  story  of 
the  life,  death  and  resurrection  of  Christ  meet  the  young 
man's  need,  that  from  that  day  he  too  was  not  only  a 
believer  in  Jesus  but  a  preacher  of  the  Gospel.  On  visiting 
his  village  (Ta-yang)  some  months  later.  Dr.  Douthwaite 
was  surprised  to  find  the  courtyard  of  the  house  filled  with 
an  orderly  assembly  of  people  waiting  as  if  for  a  meeting. 
Stools,  chairs,  baskets,  inverted  buckets,  whatever  could  be 
used  as  a  seat  had  been  requisitioned,  and  the  company 
consisted  of  women  as  well  as  men — all  eagerly  expectant. 
They  were  waiting,  he  found,  for  him  to  address  them  ;  and 
on  asking  how  such  an  audience  had  been  gathered  at  short 
notice,  he  was  still  more  interested  to  learn  that  had  he  not 
been  coming  the  meeting  would  have  been  held  just  the 
same.  It  was  their  custom  to  come  together  every  evening 
in  Farmer  Tung's  house  or  courtyard,  to  sing  hymns  and 
pray  and  read  from  the  Word  of  God  ;  and  in  villages  far 
and  near,  for  miles  around,  the  Good  News  had  been  made 
known.  ^ 

1  "  During  the  year  which  followed  this  visit  to  Ta-yang,  Dr.  Douth- 
waite baptized  fifteen  converts  from  that  village,  and  an  equal  number 
from  other  villages  in  the  same  district — all  the  fruit  of  the  labours  of 
Captain  Yii  and  Farmer  Tung.  In  this  obscure  village,  on  the  eastern 
border  of  Kiang-si,  the  first  Christian  Church  in  the  Kwang-sin  River 
district  was  organised.  Subsequently  a  house  was  rented  in  the  city  of 
Yii-shan,  which  was  made  the  centre  of  missionary  effort  in  that  district, 
and  preaching-halls  were  soon  opened  in  other  places "  (from  The 
Jubilee  Story  of  the  C.I.M.,  by  Marshall  Broomhall,  p.  138). 


WOMEN  WHICH  LABOURED  IN  THE  GOSPEL  337 

But  what  has  this  story,  interesting  as  it  may  be,  to  do 
with  our  subject — the  opening  up  of  Women's  Work  in  the 
inland  provinces  ?  Simply,  that  in  this  beautiful  district 
and  through  the  earnestness  of  these  young  converts,  God 
was  preparing  for  a  remarkable  development  of  that  work ; 
just  as,  at  Chef 00,  He  was  making  unexpected  provision  for 
future  needs.  The  schools  as  we  see  them  to-day,  with  their 
numerous  activities  and  advantages,  were  not  primarily  of 
Mr.  Taylor's  planning ;  nor  was  the  chain  of  ladies'  stations 
that  now  extends  from  Yii-shan  all  down  the  Kwang-sin 
River.  With  its  native  pastor  and  evangelists,  its  churches, 
schools,  teachers,  and  scores  of  unpaid  workers ;  with  more 
than  three  thousand  five  hundred  believers  baptized  from 
the  commencement,  and  thirty  foreign  missionaries  all  of 
whom  are  women,  that  chain  of  stations  is  unique  in  China 
and  perhaps  in  any  mission-field.  It  has  afforded  a  singular 
demonstration  of  what  God  can  do  in  using  the  weak  things 
of  the  world  to  accomplish  His  purposes  ;  and  by  its  con- 
firmation of  Mr.  Taylor's  convictions  and  the  lines  on  which 
he  and  his  fellow-workers  were  acting,  it  has  inspired  and 
strengthened  similar  efforts  in  many  other  places. 

But  all  this  was  as  yet  undreamed  of  in  the  summer  of 
1880.  Mr.  Taylor  only  knew  that  God  was  leading ;  and 
after  taking  the  momentous  step  of  sending  single  women 
inland,  even  without  foreign  escort,  he  set  out  himself  for 
the  older  stations  of  the  mission,  little  thinking  that  this 
journey  was  to  be  a  link  in  the  chain  of  such  happenings. 
Thoroughly  to  investigate  the  work  in  Che-kiang  was  his 
object ;  and  the  tact  and  sympathy  with  which  he  went 
about  it  greatly  impressed  his  young  companion,  Mr. 
Coulthard. 

"  At  some  of  the  stations  there  would  be  many  difficulties," 
he  said  in  this  connection,  "  but  it  was  wonderful  how  they 
disappeared  in  the  course  of  a  \'i3it  from  Mr.  Taylor.  Some 
said  he  was  able  to  get  his  own  way  through  personal  magnetism, 
but  I  saw  how  he  prayed  about  everything,  and  was  so  wise 
in  not  being  influenced  by  the  prejudices  of  others.  His  love 
and  genuine  interest  were  unmistakable.  Was  there  a  child 
in  the  station — his  heart  went  out  to  it,  and  the  Httle  one  would 
be  sure  to  respond,  opening  the  way  for  friendly  intercourse  . 

z 


338        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

with  the  parents.  And  his  talks  over  the  Bible  were  so  helpful. 
He  had  meetings  too  with  the  Chinese — just  the  ordinary  Sunday 
and  week-day  services,  but  full  of  blessing.  It  was  all  very 
simple,  but  real;  and  difficulties  were  invariably  settled." 

Together  they  were  keeping  up  as  they  journeyed  the 
administrative  work  of  the  Mission  —  answering  letters, 
sending  out  remittances,  corresponding  with  the  home 
department,  and  doing  most  of  the  preparation  of  China  s 
Millions.  After  six  weeks  of  such  traveUing,  they  struck 
across  from  Tai-chow-fu  by  a  mountainous  route  never 
before  taken  by  foreigners  to  what  had  been  Dr.  Douth- 
waite's  station.^  There,  several  years  previously  (1877), 
Mr.  Taylor  had  met  some  of  the  early  converts  brought  in 
through  the  labours  of  the  ex-Buddhist,  Captain  Yii.  The 
progress  of  the  work  interested  him  deeply,  and  he  decided 
to  cross  into  the  neighbouring  province,  and  return  to  the 
Yangtze  by  way  of  the  Kwang-sin  River. 

Upon  his  visits  to  Farmer  Tung  and  the  newly  opened 
out-station  at  Yii-shan  we  must  not  dwell ;  but  in  the  light 
of  those  lives  touched  with  the  love  of  Christ,  the  darkness 
of  all  that  lay  around  them  and  beyond  was  felt  the  more. 
Three  native  evangelists  on  that  long  stretch  of  river,  and 
nothing  else  in  all  the  million-peopled  province,  save  the 
work  in  and  near  Kiu-kiang — it  was  a  state  of  things  to 
burden  a  spirit  less  alive  to  its  responsibilities  than  Mr. 
Taylor's.     Upon  reaching  Chefoo  a  few  weeks  later, 

"  None  can  be  more  anxious  than  myself,"  he  wrote,  "  to 
see  Women's  Work  commenced  in  the  interior  of  the  various  pro- 
vinces.   This  has  long  been  the  consuming  desire  of  my  heart."  ^ 

Did  the  vision  come  to  him — as  he  passed  those  very 
cities  day  after  day,  which  were  to  witness  the  loving,  self- 
sacrificing  labours  of  girls  then  free  and  happy  in  far-off 
Christian  homes :  the  vision  of  lives  laid  down  for  Jesus' 
sake,  quietly  put  into  the  upbuilding  of  that  kingdom  which 

*  Failure  of  health  had  obliged  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Douthwaite  to  remove 
to  more  favourable  surroundings  (at  Wen-chow),  and  before  long  led  to 
their  finding  the  sphere  for  which  they  were  ideally  suited,  in  the  rapidly 
growing  C.I.M.  colony  at  Chefoo. 

'  From  a  letter  to  Mr.  Sowerby,  then  a  young  missionary  at  Hwei- 
chow,  An-hwei,  October  26.  1880. 


WOMEN  WHICH  LABOURED  IN  THE  GOSPEL  339 

is  "  righteousness,  joy,  and  peace  "  in  human  hearts,  into  the 
comforting  of  sorrows  and  the  Hghtening  of  darkness  he 
could  but  deeply  feel  as  he  passed  on  ?  Whether  he  saw  it 
or  not,  there  was  One  who  knew  why  Hudson  Taylor  had 
been  brought  to  the  Kwang-sin  River ;  One  who  knew 
where  to  find  the  treasures  of  love,  ready  to  be  outpoured  in 
His  service  from  many  a  woman's  heart. 

And  all  the  while  in  distant  provinces,  hundreds  of  miles 
farther  north  and  west,  a  beginning  was  being  made. 
Strange  and  new  as  was  the  presence  of  foreign  ladies  in  the 
great  inland  cities  they  now  called  home,  it  was  no  more  so 
than  the  experiences  that  were  coming  to  them.  Full  of 
interest  were  the  letters  Mr.  Taylor  was  receiving,  though 
the  pre-occupations  they  told  of  left  little  time  for  writing. 

"  We  have  had  a  busy  time  since  our  arrival,"  wrote  Mr. 
Nicoll  from  the  metropolis  of  Western  China.-^  "  As  soon  as 
it  was  known  that  my  wife  had  come,  the  women  flocked  to  see 
her.  .  .  .  Since  the  Chinese  New  Year  we  have  been  quite 
besieged.  With  the  exception  of  yesterday  and  to-day,  when 
it  has  been  raining,  we  have  had  from  two  to  five  hundred  daily." 

And  the  interest  did  not  pass  away  with  the  festive  season. 

**  For  nearly  two  months  past,"  Mrs.  Nicoll  wrote  somewhat 
later,  "  I  have  daily  seen  some  hundreds  of  women.  Our  house 
has  been  Uke  a  fair.  Men  also  have  come  to  hear  the  Gospel 
in  as  large  numbers.  They  are  spoken  to  in  the  front  part  of 
the  house  ;  the  women  I  see  in  the  guest-hall  and  the  yard 
before  it,  for  the  room  is  soon  filled.  .  .  .  Often  while  getting 
one  crowd  out  at  the  front-door  another  has  found  its  way  in 
at  the  back." 

How  much  she  needed  help  may  be  imagined ;  for, 
without  a  Christian  woman  anywhere  within  reach,  the  only 
person  she  could  fall  back  upon  was  a  member  of  their 
household  who,  being  an  old  man,  was  tolerated  among  the 
guests  in  the  inner  courtyard.  As  the  summer  wore  on  she 
had  to  get  up  at  three  o'clock  in  the  morning  to  obtain  quiet 
for  Bible  study  or  letters.  The  busy  day  that  followed 
rarely  brought  opportunity  for  rest ;    and  more  than  once 

*  Chung-king,  in  Sze-chwan  :   a  letter  dated  February  1880. 


340         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

she  fainted  from  weariness  in  the  midst  of  her  visitors, 
returning  to  consciousness  to  find  the  women  fanning  her, 
full  of  affection  and  concern.^ 

Among  many  well-to-do  women  who  were  her  friends 
was  one  elderly  lady  who  cared  for  her  like  a  mother.  From 
time  to  time,  knowing  how  weary  she  must  be,  this  lady 
would  send  round  her  sedan-chair  with  an  urgent  request 
for  Mrs.  Nicoll  to  return  in  it  immediately.  If  she  succeeded 
thus  in  getting  her  away  from  the  Mission-house,  she  would 
put  her  on  the  most  comfortable  bed  in  her  own  apartment, 
send  out  all  the  younger  women,  and  sit  down  herself  to  fan 
her  until  the  tired  missionary  was  fast  asleep.  Then  she 
would  prepare  an  inviting  meal  and  on  no  account  let  her 
go  home  until  she  had  taken  a  good  dinner. 

That  was  the  surprise,  the  unexpected  encouragement 
that  everywhere  awaited  these  first  women  who  went — ^the 
people  were  glad  to  see  them,  were  eager,  often,  to  hear 
their  message,  and  showed  not  only  natural  curiosity  and 
interest,  but  real  heart  sympathy.  Crossing  the  desperately 
anti-foreign  province  of  Hu-nan,  for  example,  on  its  western 
border  where  few  if  any  European  travellers  had  ever  been 
seen.  Miss  Kidd  could  write  of  friendly  women  wanting  to 
detain  them.^ 

*  Mr.  Henry  Soltau,  in  giving  an  account  of  his  visit  to  Chung-king 
(Jan.  1881)  says  :  "  At  the  service  on  Sunday  I  was  much  struck  with  the 
number  of  women  present,  all  of  whom  remained  to  the  close,  and  after- 
wards, when  the  men  had  left,  had  a  service  by,  themselves  with  Mrs.  Nicoll 
and  the  old  Cantonese  Christian.  This  work  among  the  women  is  a  most 
important  portion  of  the  mission  here.  They  pay  great  respect  to  Mrs. 
Nicoll  and  really  seem  to  have  an  affection  for  her,  while  she  is  deeply 
interested  in  them,  finding  more  work  to  do  than  she  can  compass.  I 
could  not  help  feeling  what  an  honour  I  should  regard  it  had  I  one  of  my 
own  sisters  labouring  in  such  a  field  as  this.  Mrs.  Nicoll  has  access  to  the 
homes  of  the  rich  and  poor.  Some  of  the  women  I  have  seen  have  been 
dressed  in  the  most  handsomely  embroidered  silks  and  satins  and  come 
in  chairs.  Mrs.  Nicoll  helps  the  women  with  a  few  medicines.  And  she 
is  the  only  foreign  lady  in  all  this  province  of  twenty-one  million  people  I — 
the  first  Christian  woman  who  has  ever  lived  and  worked  among  the  women 
of  Sze-chwan."  It  is  now  known  that  there  are  from  sixty  to  seventy 
millions  in  this  province. 

2  "  We  set  out  on  our  journey  with  considerable  fear  and  trembling," 
Mr.  Bailer  recalled.  "  We  did  not  know  what  might  happen.  .  .  .  We 
found,  however,  contrary  to  our  expectations,  that  the  people  received  us 
with  a  great  deal  of  kindness.  There  is  a  very  large  floating  population 
in  Hu-nan,  and  many  of  the  boats  on  the  Tung-ting  lake  are  manned  by 


WOMEN  WHICH  LABOURED  IN  THE  GOSPEL  341 

*'  Why  do  you  go  to  Kwei-chow  ?  "  they  said  in  several 
places  :  "we  too  want  happiness  and  peace.  Stay  here  and 
be  our  teachers." 

"  All  the  way  along,"  wrote  Miss  Kidd,  "  except  at  large 
cities,  Mrs.  M'Carthy  and  I  have  been  able  either  to  go  ashore 
and  visit  the  women  ourselves,  or  to  invite  them  on  board  our 
boat  to  see  us.  I  do  Hke  these  Hu-nan  women  so  much  !  They 
have  been  very  kind,  most  wiUing  to  receive  us,  and  ready  to 
listen  to  what  we  have  to  say.  ...  It  was  a  great  boon  having 
our  native  sister  with  us.  Of  course,  as  the  women  had  never 
seen  foreigners  before,  they  were  a  Uttle  afraid  at  first ;  but  she 
would  speak  to  them  and  tell  them  all  about  us  and  what  we 
had  come  to  do,  and  soon  they  would  draw  near,  take  us  by  the 
hand  and  invite  us  to  their  homes.  Once  indoors,  we  would 
soon  be  surrounded  by  quite  a  crowd  of  them. 

"  At  one  village  a  httle  incident  occurred  that  amused  me 
a  good  deal.  We  had  anchored  for  the  night,  and  some  women 
invited  us  to  go  ashore.  Mrs.  M'Carthy  had  toothache,  so  I 
went  alone.  A  woman  about  half  my  size,  with  a  baby  in  her 
arms,  took  hold  of  one  of  my  hands  and  a  girl  of  about  fifteen 
took  the  other  and  led  me  along  the  street,  teUing  me  not  to  be 
afraid,  they  would  take  care  of  me  !  At  the  house,  such  a  number 
came  to  see  me,  and  some  of  them  seemed  to  understand  the 
Gospel  very  well.  The  same  woman  with  her  baby  led  me  back 
to  the  boat.     May  the  Lord  bless  her,  kind  soul  I  '* 

And  their  experiences  on  reaching  Kwei-yang  were  no 
less  encouraging. 

"  We  find  the  people  most  friendly,"  Mrs.  M'Carthy  wrote 
during  the  following  summer,  "  and  we  go  in  and  out  without 
the  least  inconvenience.  As  we  walk  about,  we  get  many  in- 
vitations to  sit  down  and  drink  tea.  We  are  always  having  our 
names  called  out,  as  is  the  manner  of  the  Chinese,  and  many  a 
face  brightens  when  we  come  in  sight." 

With  Miss  Wilson  and  Miss  Fausset  it  was  just  the  same 

women  and  worked  by  them.  These  women  came  round  our  boat  as  soon 
as  we  anchored,  and  our  sisters  had  not  the  sUghtest  dif&culty  in  preach- 
ing the  Gospel  to  them  ;  and  instead  of  being  hostile,  they  were  highly 
deUghted  to  see  the  foreign  ladies.  They  stroked  their  hands  and  stroked 
their  cheeks  and  said  :  '  Dear  me,  what  beautiful  white  skins  you  have  ! 
How  much  powder  you  must  use  !  '  They  complimented  them  on  their 
good  looks,  and  enquired  what  they  had  come  for.  This  our  sisters  were 
not  slow  to  explain.  They  sang  Chinese  hymns  to  the  women,  with  which 
they  were  delighted." 


342         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

in  their  distant  northern  province.  Arrived  in  Han-chung-fu 
they  found  Mr.  and  Mrs.  King  in  the  midst  of  an  absorbing 
work.  God  had  a  people  in  that  place,  and  it  was  all  the 
missionaries  could  do  to  keep  up  with  developments  that 
before  long  gave  them  an  unusually  bright  little  church  of 
over  thirty  baptized  believers.  One  of  these,  an  elderly 
woman  who  seemed  all  on  fire  with  love  to  Christ,  never 
wearied  of  accompanying  Miss  Wilson  to  the  surrounding 
villages. 

"  Nothing  could  be  kiader  than  our  reception  everywhere," 
Miss  Wilson  wrote  in  October  1880.  "  I  am  as  well  as  ever  I 
was,  and  the  old  lady,  my  companion,  is  radiant.  If  we  should 
not  be  back  by  Tuesday,  do  not  be  anxious,  for  she  takes  me  on 
to  one  place  after  another." 

Their  experiences  were  pretty  strenuous,  however, 
"eating  and  sleeping  with  the  people,  and  walking  and 
talking  all  day." 

"  We  sit  down  on  the  dry  path  outside  a  hamlet,"  she  con- 
tinued on  her  return  to  Han-chung,  "  and  soon  the  women  come 
round  us,  and  ask  us  probably  to  a  house,  in  front  of  which  they 
bring  out  low  benches  and  sit  down  to  listen  very  attentively. 
.  .  .  Then  after  giving  our  message  we  pass  on,  not  accepting 
their  kindly  proffered  pipes,  and  sit  down  again  where  we  see 
people  working  in  the  fields.  They  leave  their  ploughs  or  pulling 
up  of  cotton-plants,  and  come  to  see  and  I  think  to  hear,  for 
they  get  to  know  our  object.  Scarcely  any  can  read.  I  do  so 
want  them  to  have  preaching  nearer  than  twelve  miles  off,  and 
hope  Hwang  may  go  to  the  market-town.  He  is  anxious  to  do 
so,  and  could  sell  books  and  be  better  for  the  change,  as  he  is 
always  aUing — feet  and  hands  sorely  lessened  through  his  leprosy. 
But  God  uses  his  weakness  to  keep  him  accessible  in  one  place, 
and  at  Hberty  for  talking  to  any  who  may  come  to  hear.  He 
has  a  sweet  Christian  experience,  and  perhaps,  had  he  not  this 
thorn  in  the  flesh,  might  be  exalted,  for  several  have  been  led 
to  Christ  through  him. 

"  While  we  were  in  the  villages  the  people  were  so  hospitable, 
asking  us  to  meals  whenever  they  were  having  them,  and  not 
wOhng  to  take  any  money.  An  old  couple  near  our  first  village, 
when  I  was  too  tired  to  walk  back,  brought  me  out  food  to 
where  I  was  resting,  and  would  have  me  sleep  at  their  house. 
A  huge,  round,  flat  basket,  filled  with  straw,  made  us  a  comfort- 
able and  roomy  bed.     My  companion  had  gone  back  and  brought 


WOMEN  WHICH  LABOURED  IN  THE  GOSPEL  343 

a  wadded  quilt  and  everything  she  could  think  I  might  want, 
on  her  back,  dear  old  creature  I  We  managed  without  these 
etceteras  on  our  two  days'  expedition.  ...  My  bed  one  night 
was  quite  luxuriously  soft,  on  cotton-plant  leaves,  stored  for 
fuel,  which  made  a  sort  of  eiderdown  coverlet  as  well.  .  .  .  The 
people  sat  round  the  door  in  the  dusk,  listening  to  the  old  woman, 
and  asking  all  about  foreigners.  Several  young  men  had  heard 
the  preajching  in  the  city,  so  were  prepared  to  think  well  of  our 
message.  We  were  led  step  by  step  in  such  pleasant  paths  that 
we  want  to  go  again,  hoping  that  other  hamlets  too  may  be 
equally  accessible.  Our  experience  next  time  may  not  be  the 
same ;  but  we  have  precious  seed  to  sow  on  whatever  ground, 
and  some  will  spring  up  we  must  expect ;  for  has  not  the  Lord 
Jesus  shed  His  blood  for  these,  and  will  He  not  call  out  of  this 
province  a  people  for  His  Name,  and  send  us  to  seek  them  ?  " 

A  few  weeks  later,  when  Miss  Wilson  had  been  about  six 
months  in  Han-chung-fu,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Parker  came  up,  on 
their  way  to  a  still  more  needy  and  distant  sphere.  They 
were  bound  for  Kan-su,  the  farthest  north-west  of  all  the 
provinces,  which,  with  its  Mohammedan  and  Chinese  popula- 
tion of  ten  millions,  had  but  one  soHtary  witness  for  Christ. 
Up  there  in  his  loneliness,  Mr.  Easton  was  longing  for  their 
coming,  and  though  it  meant  another  ten  days'  journey, 
over  rough  roads  and  mountain  ranges,  Miss  Wilson  could 
not  let  the  little  bride  go  on  alone.  To  be  her  helper  and 
companion,  this  brave  lady  set  out  again  to  face  the  un- 
known— riding  on  the  top  of  her  baggage  on  one  of  the  pack 
animals,  and  accompanied  by  her  faithful  attendant  the 
leper  Hwang. 

It  was  the  depth  of  winter  when  they  reached  Tsin-chow, 
but  hardly  had  they  settled  in  their  new  home  before  the 
work  began  to  take  on  a  more  encouraging  aspect.  Even 
the  timid  Tibetans  were  attracted  by  the  fame  of  "  the 
foreign  doctor,"  and  the  friendliness  of  all  classes  was 
remarkable.  Five  months  only  after  their  arrival  Mr. 
Parker  wrote  (June  2,  1881)  : 

The  wife  of  a  Tao-ist  priest  had  an  ulcerated  neck  reaching 
from  ear  to  ear,  a  disease  very  common  in  this  district  and 
believed  by  the  people  to  be  incurable.  My  wife  visited  her, 
and  she  began  to  mend  very  rapidly  under  her  treatment.  The 
news  spread  quickly,  and  for  three  weeks  Mrs.  Parker  went  into 


344         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

the  city  daily  to  visit  the  sick.  Most  of  the  women  patients  have 
long  been  sufferers,  their  ailments  are  constitutional,  or  the 
result  of  poor,  indigestible  food  ;  but  many  have  been  much 
reUeved,  and  to  Chinese  eyes  several  remarkable  cures  have 
taken  place.  For  several  days  I  sat  in  the  reception-room, 
making  promises  of  calls  and  giving  medicines  from  sunrise  to 
sunset.  The  wife  of  the  chief  Mahommedan  A -hung  we  have 
staying  in  our  house,  to  be  attended  to.  She  has  a  gathered  arm 
of  two  years'  standing.  People  are  beginning  to  come  in  from 
the  country.  I  doubt  whether  there  is  a  lane  or  courtyard  in 
the  city  where  a  visit  from  my  wife  or  Miss  Wilson  would  not  be 
welcomed.  .  .  .  Three  candidates  are  waiting  to  be  baptized." 

Thus  at  point  after  point  in  the  far  interior,  prayer  was 
being  answered  and  the  seemingly  impossible  brought  to 
pass.^  "  Do  love  the  Chinese  women,"  Mr.  Taylor  had 
said  to  Miss  Wilson  when  she  first  went  out.  "  Whatever 
is  your  best  time  in  the  day,  give  that  to  communion  with 
God  ;  and  do  love  the  Chinese  women."  This  was  the  power 
that  w^as  telling  now  on  hearts  that  were  learning  through 
human  love,  unknown  before,  the  wonder  of  the  Love  that 
"  passeth  knowledge." 

"  What  is  this  strange,  warm  feehng  we  have  when  we 
come  here  to  you  ?  "  said  a  group  of  visitors  to  one  of  the 
first  women  missionaries  in  Ho-nan.  "  We  never  feel  it 
anjrwhere  else.  In  our  own  mothers'  homes  we  do  not  feel 
it.  Here  our  hearts  are  k'uan-ch'ao — broad  and  peaceful. 
What  is  it  w^arms  them  so  ?     We  have  never  felt  it  before." 

But  such  service  was  not  without  its  cost.  While  there 
was  much  to  encourage — for  by  the  end  of  1880  the  pioneers 
were  rejoicing  in  sixty  or  seventy  converts  gathered  into  little 
churches  in  the  far  inland  provinces — there  was  much  also 
to  call  for  faith  and  patience  and  the  spirit  of  those  who 

*  Shortly  before  Mrs.  Hudson  Taylor  had  left  home  (May  1878)  to  lead 
in  this  pioneer  movement,  a  special  Prayer  Union  had  been  formed  in 
England  "  to  seek  blessing  upon  the  one  hundred  and  twenty-five  millions 
of  heathen  women  in  China."  Daily  prayer  for  those  labouring  among 
them  was  the  condition  of  membership;  and  who  shall  say  how  much 
the  safety,  happiness,  and  success  of  the  first  women  workers  to  go  to  the 
far  inland  provinces  was  due  to  the  united,  definite  prayer  focussed  thus 
upon  their  labours  ?  The  circular  setting  forth  the  objects  of  the  Union 
was  headed  with  the  promise  :  "If  two  of  you  shall  agree  on  earth  as 
touching  anything  that  they  shall  ask,  it  shall  be  done  for  them  of  my 
Father  which  is  in  Heaven  "  (Matt,  xviii.  19). 


WOMEN  WHICH  LABOURED  IN  THE  GOSPEL  345 

overcame  "  by  the  blood  of  the  Lamb  "  and  "  loved  not 
their  lives  unto  the  death."  First  to  go  to  the  women  of 
western  China,  Emily  King  was  the  first  also  to  be  called  to 
higher  service.  But  before  her  brief  course  ended — the  one 
precious  opportunity  in  which  she  had  given  her  all — she 
had  the  joy  of  seeing  no  fewer  than  eighteen  women  baptized 
on  confession  of  their  faith  in  Jesus.  Dying  of  typhus  fever 
in  her  far-off  home  (May  1881),  this  it  was  that  raised  her 
above  the  sorrow  of  leaving  her  husband  desolate,  and  their 
little  one  but  five  weeks  old  v/ithout  a  mother.  The  Man  of 
Sorrows  was  seeing  of  "  the  travail  of  His  soul  **  among  those 
for  whom  He  had  waited  so  long  !     And  she  was  satisfied. 

This  it  was  that  strengthened  the  mother's  heart  by  a 
little  lonely  grave,  when  in  that  same  month  of  May  Mrs. 
George  Clarke  went  on  from  Kwei-chow,  in  which  she  had 
been  the  only  woman  missionary,  to  the  still  more  distant 
and  difficult  province  of  Yun-nan.  The  sisters  who  had 
come  to  her  help  were  able  by  that  time  to  carry  on  the 
work ;  and  the  precious  child  who  had  filled  her  hands  as 
well  as  her  heart  had  been  taken  to  a  safer,  better  Land. 

"  The  Lord  has  been  leading  us  by  a  painful  path,"  the 
father  wrote.  "  Doubtless  He  saw  best  to  take  our  dear  boy 
to  Himself,  to  send  us  to  Yun-nan  ;  for  if  he  had  been  spared 
we  should  not  have  thought  of  leaving  Kwei-chow.  Now,  where 
is  the  married  couple  who  can  go  as  well  as  we  ?  " 

Forty  days'  journey  westward  lay  the  city  in  which  a 
house  was  waiting ;  and  Yiin-nan  with  its  twelve  millions 
was  without  a  resident  missionary,  or  any  one  at  all  to  bring 
to  its  women  and  children  the  glad  tidings  of  a  Saviour's 
love.  Kneeling  beside  that  little  grave,  the  mother  conse- 
crated herself  afresh  to  God  for  this  work,  and  went  on  to 
the  loneliness  and  privations  she  knew  so  well,  to  do  in  a 
second  great  province  of  western  China  what  she  had  already 
been  doing  in  Kwei-chow.  And  though  only  two  and  a  half 
years  later  she  too  was  called  to  her  reward,  the  fruit  of  that 
life,  the  answer  to  her  many  prayers  lives  on. 

"I  seem  to  have  done  so  little,"  she  said  to  her  husband 
toward  the  end.  "  I  seem  to  have  done  less  than  any 
woman  in  China/* 


346         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

It  was  two  years  and  more  since  she  had  seen  a  sister- 
missionary,  or  had  had  any  one  save  her  husband  to  share 
the  prayers  and  tears  over  what,  in  those  days  and  for  long 
after,  was  a  hard  and  fruitless  field.  But  faith  rose  above 
discouragement. 

"  Others  will  come  after  us,"  she  said  when  her  brave 

task  was  nearly  done.     "  Others  will  come  after  us " 

•  •••** 

The  harvest  is  white  to  the  reaping  now,  in  that  province 
where  her  life  was  the  first  to  be  laid  down.  From  the  snow- 
capped mountains  that  reminded  her  of  her  own  Switzerland, 
on  which  she  loved  to  watch  the  sunset  glow,  the  long 
neglected  tribespeople  are  coming,  coming  in  their  hundreds 
to  the  Saviour  she  so  truly  loved  and  served.  More  than 
eight  thousand  baptized  behevers  form  the  present  member- 
ship of  a  church  in  Yiin-nan  and  Kwei-chow  that  is  growing 
beyond  the  power  to  overtake  it  of  those  who  long  and  pray 
for  fellow-workers,  called  of  God,  to  garner  the  precious 
sheaves.  Who  will  come  while  still  the  Master  tarries,  and 
share  both  in  the  present  toil  and  in  the  endless  joy  of 
Harvest  home  ? 


PART  VI 

THE   RISING  TIDE 

1881-1887.     Aet.  49-55. 

Chap.  24.  The  Seventy. 

25.  Deeper  Down. 

26.  Above  all  that  ye  ask. 

27.  The  Price  of  Progress. 

28.  Days  of  Blessing. 

29.  The  Hundred. 


"  We  have  lost  the  eternal  youthfulness  of  Christianity  and  have 
aged  into  calculating  manhood.  We  seldom  pray  in  earnest  for 
the  extraordinary,  the  limitless,  the  glorious.  We  seldom  pray 
with  real  confidence  for  any  good  to  the  reahsation  of  which  we 
cannot  imagine  a  way.  And  yet  we  suppose  ourselves  to  beUeve 
in  an  infinite  Father." — Anonymous,  Edinburgh,  1910. 

"  For  many  years  it  has  been  my  practice  in  travelling  among 
the  nations  to  make  a  study  of  the  sources  of  the  spiritual  movements 
which  are  doing  most  to  vitaHse  and  transform  individuals  and 
communities.  At  times  it  has  been  difficult  to  discover  the  hidden 
spring,  but  invariably  where  I  have  had  the  time  and  patience  to 
do  so,  I  have  found  it  in  an  intercessory  prayer-Hfe  of  great  reaUty." 
— John  R.  Mott. 

**  Believe  me,"  said  Coleridge  to  his  nephew  two  years  before 
his  death,  "  to  pray  with  all  your  heart  and  strength,  with  the 
reason  and  the  will,  to  believe  vividly  that  God  will  Usten  to  your 
voice  through  Christ,  and  verily  do  the  thing  He  pleaseth  thereupon, 
■ — this  is  the  last,  the  greatest  achievement  of  the  Christian's  warfare 
upon  earth.     Teach  us  to  pray,  Ixjrd." — Coleridge's  Table  Talk, 


CHAPTER  XXIV 

THE   SEVENTY 
1881.     Aet.  49. 

*'  Are  the  itinerations  of  the  C.I.M.  really  valuable  from  a 
missionary  point  of  view  ?  Are  they  not  unproductive  and 
aimless  wanderings  ?  Can  we  hope  for  much  good  from  the 
journeys  themselves,  and  will  they  lead  to  more  definite 
and  settled  work  ?  "  Such  were  some  of  the  questions  Mr. 
Taylor  felt  it  desirable  to  answer  in  a  paper  for  China's 
Millions  early  in  188 1.  It  was  now  four  and  a  half  years 
since  the  Chefoo  Convention  had  thrown  open  the  gates  of 
the  west,  and  pioneer  journeys  had  been  made  in  all  the  then 
unoccupied  provinces.  Was  it  too  early  to  discern  the  trend 
of  the  movement,  or  to  speak  of  spiritual  results  ?  It  was 
surely  not  little  to  be  able  to  point,  even  then,  to  seventy 
baptized  believers  in  those  regions  hitherto  destitute  of  the 
Gospel,  and  to  settled  work  in  no  fewer  than  six  important 
centres  in  five  provinces,  in  all  of  which  women  missionaries 
were  to  be  found  as  well  as  men.  When  one  records  the 
name  of  Pastor  Hsi  as  among  those  first  converts,  it  will  be 
seen  how  well  worth  while  were  the  labours  that  had  brought 
such  a  man  out  of  darkness  into  God's  marvellous  Hght.^ 

1  It  is  interesting,  in  view  of  Pastor  Hsi's  subsequent  usefulness,  to 
quote  Mr.  Turner's  reference  to  his  baptism,  with  that  of  several  others 
at  Ping-yang  Fu,  in  November  1880.  Mr.  David  Hill,  who  had  been  the 
means  of  his  conversion,  had  by  that  time  returned  to  his  regular  work  in 
the  Yangtze  valley.  "  On  Saturday  the  27th,  five  of  our  native  brethren 
were  baptized.  .  .  .  Hsi  Liao-chuh,  aged  forty-five,  a  native  of  a  village 
thirty  li  {lo  miles)  from  here,  is  a  man  of  great  abiHty  and  influence.  He 
came  to  us  at  the  beginning  of  the  year.  He  had  read  Christian  books, 
and  he  soon  broke  off  his  opium,  demoHshed  his  idols,  and  accepted  Christ 

349 


350         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

He  was  already  receiving  opium-smokers  into  his  home,  to 
cure  them  of  their  craving  and  lead  them  to  Christ,  and  was 
one  of  those  whose  faithfulness  under  persecution  and  zeal 
in  making  known  the  one  and  only  Saviour  filled  Mr.  Taylor's 
heart  with  joy,  and  led  him  to  ask  in  his  turn  the  question, 
"  While  the  Lord  so  cheers  us  in  our  work,  shall  we  hesitate 
to  continue,  nay  to  go  forward  ?  " 

But  Mr.  Taylor's  was  not  the  only  pen  that  by  this  time 
was  found  to  advocate  the  line  of  things  he  and  his  fellow- 
workers  had  felt  led  to  adopt. 

"  They  are  opening  up  the  country,"  wrote  Alex.  Wylie  of 
the  L.M.S.,  as  early  as  1880,  "  and  this  is  what  we  want.  Other 
missionaries  are  doing  a  good  work,  but  they  are  not  doing  this 
work." 

And  one  of  Her  Majesty's  Consuls  included,  in  the  same 
year,  the  following  statement  in  his  official  Report  from 
Hankow : 

Always  on  the  move,  the  missionaries  of  this  society  have 
travelled  throughout  the  country,  taking  hardship  and  priva- 
tion as  the  natural  incidents  of  their  profession,  and,  never 
attempting  to  force  themselves  anywhere,  they  have  made 
friends  everjrwhere  ;  and,  while  labouring  in  their  special  field 
as  ministers  of  the  Gospel,  have  accustomed  the  Chinese  to  the 
presence  of  foreigners  among  them,  and  in  great  measure  dis- 
pelled the  fear  of  the  barbarian  which  has  been  the  main  difficulty 
with  which  we  have  had  to  contend. 

Not  only  do  the  bachelor  members  of  the  Mission  visit  places 
supposed  to  be  inaccessible  to  foreigners,  but  those  who  are 
married  take  their  wives  wdth  them  and  settle  down  with  the 
goodwill  of  the  people  in  districts  far  removed  from  official  in- 
fluence, and  get  on  as  comfortably  and  securely  as  their  brethren 
of  the  older  missions  under  the  shadow  of  the  Consular  flag  and 
within  range  of  a  gunboat's  guns ;  and,  while  aiding  the  foreign 
merchant  by  obtaining  information  regarding  the  unknown 
interior  of   the   country,   and  strengthening  our   relations   by 

as  his  Saviour.  He  is  a  man  of  quick  temperament,  and  his  conversion 
was  rapid  and  full  of  joy.  He  is  serving  the  Lord  in  his  own  neighbour- 
hood. .  .  .  Last  evening  these  dear  brethren  were  formally  received  into 
Christian  fellowship,  and  the  newly  formed  church — the  first  Protestant 
Church  of  Shan-si — gathered  around  the  table  of  our  Lord."  For  the  sub- 
sequent life  of  this  man  of  God  see  Pastor  Hsi  :  one  of  China's  Christians, 
published  by  the  China  Inland  Mission  and  Messrs.  Morgan  &  Scott. 


THE  SEVENTY  351 

increasing  our  intimacy  with  the  people,  this  Mission  has,  at 
the  same  time,  shown  the  true  way  of  spreading  Christianity 
in  China. 

Spreading  the  knowledge  of  the  Truth — this  was  indeed 
the  aim  kept  in  view ;  and  though  it  meant  deliberately 
forgoing  the  more  rapid  ingathering  to  be  expected  from 
concentrating  upon  older  work,  Mr.  Taylor  held  firmly  to 
the  principle,  "  There  is  that  scattereth  and  yet  increaseth." 
To  realise  how  extensive  and  thorough-going  were  the 
labours  of  the  pioneers,  one  must  look  a  little  beyond  the 
summer  of  1881,  though  even  then  there  was  abundant 
cause  for  encouragement.  In  the  midst  of  his  six  years  of 
almost  uninterrupted  travelling — journeys  arduous  beyond 
description,  in  which  he  traversed  every  province  in  China 
(except  Hu-nan)  and  even  entered  Mongolia  and  Tibet — 
James  Cameron  had  reached  the  mountainous  regions  of 
northern  Shan-si,  within  and  without  the  Great  Wall. 
There,  joining  forces  with  other  brethren,  he  was  engaged 
in  the  systematic  visitation  of  every  city  not  only  in  that 
province  but  in  the  neighbouring  one  of  Shen-si,  beyond  the 
Yellow  River,  and  in  the  eastern  part  of  Kan-su.  Patiently 
and  persistently,  in  face  of  untold  hardship,  they  pressed 
their  way  through  wintry  snows  and  summer  heat  to  the 
remotest  corners  of  those  far-reaching  plains  and  valleys, 
missing  out  only  two  places  of  minor  importance  that  were 
practically  inaccessible  on  account  of  the  rainy  season. 

Meanwhile,  in  the  far  South,  equally  faithful  work  was 
being  done.  Even  before  Cameron  had  passed  through  on 
his  first  extensive  journey,  John  McCarthy  had  traversed  on 
foot  the  three  south-western  provinces,  preaching  every- 
where as  he  went.  George  Clarke  and  Edward  Fishe,  at  the 
same  time,  were  evangelising  in  Kwang-si — still  farther 
south,  and  until  then  wholly  unreached.  To  this  province 
the  latter  had  been  designated ;  but  fever  contracted  on 
their  first  journey  cut  short  the  service  he  hoped  to  render, 
and  his  companion  had  the  sorrow  of  laying  him  in  a  far-off 
grave.  Still  the  good  work  went  on,  and  in  the  year  that 
followed  (1878)  Kwang-si  was  visited  again  and  again. 
When  Mr.  Clarke  married  and  brought  his  bride  to  Kwei- 


352        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

yang,  Broumton,  who  had  hitherto  held  the  fort  alone,  was 
set  free  to  travel,  and  visited  with  others  nearly  every  city 
in  eastern  Yiin-nan.  The  western  part  of  the  province  fell 
to  the  eager  pioneers,  J.  W.  Stevenson  and  Henry  Soltau, 
when  at  last  they  were  permitted  to  cross  the  hills  from 
Burma,  and  unite  the  advance  guards  of  the  mission  coming 
from  east  and  west»  Mr.  Taylor  was  at  Wu-chang  when  they 
reached  the  Yangtze  in  the  spring  of  1881 — the  first 
Europeans  to  travel  from  the  Burman  frontier  right  through 
to  Shanghai. 

It  was  a  time  of  notable  happenings,  that  month  of 
March  at  Wu-chang ;  for  then  Mr.  Taylor  saw  off  another 
large  party,  including  ladies,  to  cross  the  turbulent  province 
of  Hu-nan  to  Western  China,  and  hardly  had  they  started 
before  Adam  Dorward  appeared,  fresh  from  five  and  a  half 
months  of  pioneering  in  that  very  region.  Hu-nan  was 
graven  on  his  heart,  and  he  had  just  commenced  the  self- 
sacrificing  labours  that  for  eight  years  he  continued  almost 
without  intermission,  giving  his  life  at  last  in  hope  of  the 
blessed  results  we  see  to-day.  Little  wonder  that  a  crying 
need  began  to  be  felt,  rising  out  of  these  developments — the 
need  for  reinforcements  to  follow  up  such  labours  and  enter 
many  a  widely  opened  door  ! 

This  then  was  the  state  of  things  when  Mrs.  Taylor  was 
obliged  to  return  to  England,  after  more  than  three  years* 
absence  (October  1881),  and  Mr.  Taylor  set  out  from  Chef 00, 
now  his  headquarters,  for  conference  with  several  of  the 
pioneers  at  Wu-chang.  The  summer  had  been  one  of  intense 
heat  and  no  little  trial  on  account  of  sickness  and  shortness 
of  funds. 

"  Unless  one  could  really  cast  the  burden  on  the  Lord," 
Mr.  Taylor  had  written  to  Mr.  Theodore  Howard,  "  and  feel 
that  the  responsibility  of  providing  for  His  servants  is  His, 
one  would  be  much  concerned  at  the  present  aspect  of  things." 

And  to  a  fellow  missionary  : 

When  shall  we  get  through  our  difficulties  ?  Funds  seem 
dropping  lower  and  lower.  We  need  much  prayer.  But  God 
cannot  fail  us  :  let  us  trust  and  not  be  afraid. 


THE  SEVENTY  353 

Those  who  were  with  him  at  Chefoo  that  summer  noticed 
how  much  time  he  spent  in  prayer. 

"  What  would  you  do,"  he  said  quite  simply  to  Mr.  and 
Mrs,  Nicoll  one  day,  "  if  you  had  a  large  family  and  nothing 
to  give  them  to  eat  ?  That  is  almost  my  situation  at 
present." 

Many  were  the  occasions,  also,  when  he  called  the  house- 
hold together  for  special  thanksgiving.  For  if  not  in  one 
way,  then  in  another,  the  daily  needs  were  met  and  Mr. 
Taylor  was  enabled  to  send  out  sufficient  if  not  ample 
supplies. 

"  The  amounts  received  these  two  months  are  very  low," 
he  had  written  to  Dr.  Harold  Schofield  in  May,  "  and  but  for 
God's  goodness  in  giving  us  more  contributions  in  China  than 
ever  before  in  the  same  time,  I  should  have  much  less  to  dis- 
tribute. Is  it  not  blessed  to  see  how  His  watchful  care  provides, 
now  in  this  way,  now  in  that ;  now  giving  more  here  and  less 
at  home,  then  more  at  home  and  less  here.  .  .  .  Any  way,  it  is 
all  like  Him,  blessed ;  and  we  are  blessed  to  be  in  His  loving 
hands." 

Accompanying  himself  on  the  harmonium,  Mr.  Taylor 
used  often  to  sing  at  this  time  some  little  verses  which, 
simple  as  they  were,  meant  much  in  his  experience  : 

By  the  poor  widow's  oil  and  meal 

Elijah  was  sustained  ; 
Though  small  the  store,  it  lasted  long. 

For  God  that  store  maintained. 

It  seemed  as  if,  from  day  to  day. 

They  were  to  eat  and  die  ; 
But  God,  though  in  a  hidden  way, 

Prolonged  the  small  supply. 

Then  let  not  fears  your  mind  dismay ' 

Remember  God  has  said, 
**  The  cruse  and  barrel  shall  not  fail : 

My  people  shall  be  fed." 

That  summer  was  memorable  also  for  the  personal 
sorrow  it  brought  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  in  the  death  of 
both  their  beloved  mothers  within  a  few  weeks  of  each  other. 
In  the  midst  of  much  sickness  and  trial  of  various  kinds  this 

2  A 


354         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

bereavement  was  specially  felt,  and  made  the  parting  all 
the  harder  in  October,  when  Mrs.  Taylor's  return  to  England 
could  no  longer  be  delayed.  The  three  years  she  had  been 
in  China  had  brought  her  so  fully  into  the  work  that  for  Mr. 
Taylor  it  meant  losing  his  right-hand  helper.  But  it  was 
clearly  her  duty  to  return  to  home  responsibilities,  and  he 
could  not  be  free  for  months  to  come. 

"  God  is  helping  us  very  much,"  he  wrote  ten  days  after  she 
had  left,  "  and  not  less  by  our  trials  than  by  our  joys.  I  am 
sure  you  have  been  longing  for  me,  as  I  for  you.  At  the  right 
time,  by  the  right  way  the  Lord  will  bring  us  together  again. 
Let  us  seek  to  live  all  the  more  with  Him,  to  find  Him  a  satisfying 
portion." 

Travelling  up  the  Yangtze  in  November,  he  was  more 
than  ever  confirmed  in  a  position  of  quiet  trust  in  the  Lord, 
and  in  the  conviction — tested  in  many  ways — that  in  the 
main  the  Mission  was  on  the  right  lines  before  Him. 

"  You  are  ploughing  the  Mediterranean,  I  hope,"  he  wrote 
on  November  21,  "  and  will  soon  see  Naples.  I  am  waiting  here 
(on  the  landing-stage  at  An-king)  for  a  steamer  to  Wu-chang. 
I  need  not,  cannot  tell  you  how  much  I  miss  you,  but  God  is 
making  me  feel  how  rich  we  are  in  His  presence  and  love.  .  .  . 
He  is  helping  me  to  rejoice  in  our  adverse  circumstances,  in  our 
poverty,  in  the  retirements  from  our  Mission.  All  these  difficul- 
ties are  only  platforms  for  the  manifestation  of  His  grace,  power 
and  love." 

And  from  Wu-chang  four  days  later,  when  the  Conference 
had  begun  :  ^ 

I  am  very  busy  at  work  here.  .  .  .  God  is  giving  us  a  happy 
time  of  fellowship  together,  and  is  confirming  us  in  the  principles 
on  which  we  are  acting. 

^  There  had  been  little  or  no  prearrangement  about  these  meetings. 
As  Mr.  Taylor  came  up-river,  he  brought  with  him  one  and  another  who 
seemed  to  need  refreshment,  and  Mr.  Coulthard's  bachelor  housekeeping 
was  taxed  to  the  utmost.  Dorward  was  there  from  Hu-nan,  Parrott  and 
Pigott  from  the  north,  Trench  and  Miss  Kidd  from  the  far  south-west, 
and  other  workers  from  Central  China.  Just  a  family-party  they  seemed 
— overjoyed  to  have  Mr.  Taylor  all  to  themselves,  quite  unconscious  of 
what  was  to  be  the  outcome.  A  spirit  of  prayer  prevailed  ;  and  in  their 
daily  Bible  Readings,  morning  and  evening,  Mr.  Taylor  was  seeking  to 
establish  these  younger  workers  in  the  Scriptural  principles  on  which  the 
Mission  was  based. 


THE  SEVENTY  355 

That  one  little  sentence,  taken  in  connection  with  the 
crisis  to  which  they  had  come,  lets  in  a  flood  of  light  upon  the 
important  sequel  to  those  days  of  fellowship  at  Wu-chang. 
For  unconsciously,  perhaps,  to  the  younger  members  of  the 
Mission,  it  was  a  crisis,  and  more  was  hanging  in  the  balance 
than  Mr.  Taylor  himself  could  realise.  After  years  of 
prayer  and  patient,  persevering  effort,  a  position  of  un- 
paralleled opportunity  had  been  reached.  Inland  China  lay 
open  before  them.  At  all  the  settled  stations  in  the  far 
north,  south,  and  west,  reinforcements  were  needed,  whole 
provinces  as  large  as  kingdoms  in  Europe  being  at  last 
accessible  to  resident  as  well  as  itinerant  missionary  work. 
Not  to  advance  would  be  to  retreat  from  the  position  of 
faith  taken  up  at  the  beginning.  It  would  be  to  look  at 
difficulties  rather  than  at  the  living  God.  True,  funds  were 
low — had  been  for  years,  and  the  workers  coming  out  from 
home  were  few,  while  several  retirements  had  taken  place  in 
China.  Difficulties  were  formidable  ;  and  it  was  easy  to  say, 
'*  All  these  things  are  indications  that  for  the  present  no 
further  extension  is  possible."  But  not  to  go  forward  would 
be  to  cripple  and  hinder  the  work ;  to  throw  away  oppor- 
tunities God  had  given,  and  to  close,  before  long,  stations 
that  had  been  opened  at  great  cost.  This,  surely,  could  not 
be  His  way  for  the  evangelisation  of  inland  China. 

What  then  was  to  be  done  ?  What  answer  must  be 
given  to  the  pioneers  who  were  writing  and  eagerly  looking 
for  help  ?  There  are  several  different  ways  of  working  for' 
God,  as  Mr.  Taylor  reminded  the  little  company. 

One  is  to  make  the  best  plans  we  can,  and  carry  them  out 
to  the  best  of  our  ability.  This  may  be  better  than  working 
without  plan,  but  it  is  by  no  means  the  best  way  of  serving  our 
Master.  Or,  having  carefully  laid  our  plans  and  determined 
to  carry  them  through,  we  may  ask  God  to  help  us,  and  to  prosper 
us  in  connection  with  them.  Yet  another  way  of  working  is 
to  begin  with  God ;  to  ask  His  plans,  and  to  offer  ourselves  to 
Him  to  carry  out  His  purposes. 

This  then  was  the  attitude  taken  up.  Day  by  day  the 
needs  of  the  whole  work  were  laid  before  the  Lord,  guidance 
being  sought  as  to  His  will  in  connection  with  them. 


356         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

^  "  Going  about  it  in  this  way,"  Mr.  Taylor  continued,  "  we 
leave  the  responsibility  with  the  Great  Designer,  and  find  His 
service  one  of  sweet  restfulness.  We  have  no  responsibility 
save  to  follow  as  we  are  led  ;  and  we  serve  One  Who  is  able  both 
to  design  and  to  execute,  and  Whose  work  never  fails." 

It  was  only  gradually  it  came  to  them — for  it  seemed  too 
big  a  thing  for  faith  to  grasp.  Walking  over  the  Serpent 
Hill  in  the  midst  of  Wu-chang,  Mr.  Taylor  was  counting  up 
with  one  of  his  fellow-workers  how  many  men  and  women 
it  would  really  take  to  meet  the  most  pressing  claims. 
Station  after  station  was  considered,  their  thoughts  quickened 
meanwhile  by  the  scene  outspread  before  them — the  homes 
of  no  fewer  than  two  million  people  being  gathered  at  that 
confluence  of  the  mighty  Yangtze  with  the  Han.  Thus  it 
was  the  thought  dawned,  overwhelming  almost  in  its  great- 
ness. Fifty  to  sixty  new  workers  ?  Why,  the  entire 
membership  of  the  Mission  was  barely  a  hundred  I  But 
fifty  or  sixty,  at  the  lowest  computation,  would  be  all  too 
few.  "  Other  seventy  also,'*  came  to  Mr.  Taylor's  mind : 
"  the  Lord  appointed  other  seventy  also,  and  sent  them *' 

But  it  seemed  too  much  to  ask  ;  not  in  view  of  the  great, 
waiting  field,  but  in  view  of  wholly  insufficient  resources. 
Just  then,  as  they  walked,  Mr.  Parrott's  foot  struck  against 
something  hard  in  the  grass. 

"  See,"  he  said,  stooping  to  pick  up  a  string  of  cash, 
'*  see  what  I  have  found  !  If  we  have  to  come  to  the  hills 
for  it,  God  is  well  able  to  give  us  all  the  money  needed  1  " 

But  they  did  not  run  away  with  the  new  idea  all  at  once. 
Several  prayer  meetings  and  quiet  consultations  were  held 
before  they  came  to  feel  liberty  and  confidence  in  asking 
the  Lord  for  seventy  new  fellow- workers. 

"  I  quite  beUeve  that  Mr.  Taylor  prayed  the  prayer  of  faith 
to-night,"  wrote  Mr.  Parrott  of  one  of  those  meetings  ;  and  of 
another,  "  There  was  a  great  spirit  of  expectancy." 

This  was  the  spirit,  indeed,  that  characterised  the  whole 
transaction— definite  expectation  that  God  would  answer 
definite  prayer  in  the  Name  of  Jesus. 

"  If  only  we  could  meet  again,"  said  one,  "  and  have  a 


THE  SEVENTY  357 

united  praise  meeting  when  the  last*  of  the  Seventy  has 
reached  China  !  " 

Three  years  had  been  agreed  upon  as  the  period  in  which 
the  answer  should  be  looked  for,  as  it  would  hardly  be  pos- 
sible to  receive  and  arrange  for  so  many  new  workers  in  a 
shorter  time. 

"  We  shall  be  widely  scattered  then,"  said  another  with  a 
practical  turn  of  mind.  "  But  why  not  have  the  praise 
meeting  now  ?  Why  not  give  thanks  for  the  Seventy  before 
we  separate  ?  '* 

This  happy  suggestion  commending  itself  to  all,  the 
meeting  was  held,  and  those  who  had  joined  in  the  prayer 
joined  in  the  thanksgiving  also,  with  which  the  answer  was 
received — in  faith. 


J 


CHAPTER  XXV 

DEEPER   DOWN 
1882.     Aet.  50. 

Fired  with  new  faith  and  refreshed  with  spiritual  blessing, 
the  little  party  scattered  from  Wu-chang.  What  a  message 
was  theirs  to  take  and  send  throughout  the  Mission  ! 

"  The  Lord  has  been  with  us  indeed,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  on 
his  way  down  river.  "  We  have  been  guided,  I  believe  of  Him, 
to  ask  for  *  other  Seventy  also,'  and  if  He  tarry  He  will  send 
them  I  am  sure.  I  am  now  on  my  way  to  Chin-kiang,  where 
I  hope  to  have  some  meetings  for  spiritual  blessing.  .  .  . 

"  God  is  faithful,  and  expects  us  to  walk  by  faith.  .  .  .  We 
have  our  definite  lines  of  working :  we  must  not  leave  them, 
nor  grow  weary  in  them.  If  any  leave  us  on  account  of  them, 
they,  not  we,  are  the  losers.  .  .  .  God  remains  faithful.  Do 
not  be  cast  down  if  you  meet  with  difficulties  at  home.  All 
things  are  working  together  for  good,  as  in  due  time  we  shall  see. 
Pray  much  for  me.  .  .  .  Satan  is  a  terrible  reaUty,  so  is  the  flesh  ; 
but  more  is  He  Who  is  within  us.  If  God  be  for  us,  who,  what 
can  overcome  us  ?  "  ^ 

*  This  letter  to  Mrs.  Taylor  was  written,  as  it  happened,  on  the  very 
day  of  her  arrival  in  England,  December  i,  1881.  Tidings  of  a  fresh 
bereavement  awaited  her,  for  Mr.  Taylor's  father  had  passed  away  a  few 
weeks  previously. 

"  My  dear  and  honoured  father,"  he  wrote  on  hearing  of  it,  "  has  been 
taken  Home,  painlessly  and  without  a  moment's  warning.  None  was 
needed  :  to  him,  to  die  was  gain.  I  realised  very  thankfully  that  the  long, 
dreary  winter  we  had  dreaded  for  him,  alone — without  my  dear  mother, 
for  fifty  years  his  companion — would  not  distress  him  now  ;  but  I  could 
not  help  a  feehng  of  desolation  at  the  thought  of  no  more  Father's  or 
Mother's  welcome  ;  no  old  home  to  go  to,  should  I  return  to  England 
again.  But  it  dawned  on  me  that  not  only  are  they  both  at  rest,  in  the 
presence  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  but  they  are  reunited,  freed  from  infirmity  and 
imperfection  for  ever  :    and  then  the  old  home  feeling  came  back  to  my 

358 


DEEPER  DOWN  359 

The  meetings  at  Chin-kiang  early  in  December  were 
fully  as  encouraging  as  those  at  Wu-chang  had  been.  All 
the  members  of  the  Mission  present  agreed  to  pray  daily 
for  the  Seventy  until  they  should  be  given.  When  Mr. 
Taylor  left,  several  of  the  young  men  went  down  with  him 
to  the  steamer. 

"  We  had  prayer  in  his  cabin,"  Mr.  Parrott  wrote.  "  Five 
of  us  prayed  for  the  Seventy,  and  Mr.  Taylor  promised  to  tele- 
graph home  and  ask  them  to  receive  and  send  out  this  number, 
if  we  would  continue  praying.  .  .  .  Certainly  the  Lord  is  reviv- 
ing us  :  other  missionaries  at  Chin-kiang  have  also  been  present 
in  our  meetings." 

From  that  time  on  it  was  a  constant  joy  to  Mr.  Taylor 
to  see  how  the  prayer  for  reinforcements  was  taken  up 
throughout  the  Mission.  No  one  knew  better  than  he  did 
what  it  meant  to  his  fellow-workers  to  be  not  willing  only, 
but  earnestly  desirous  that  the  staff  of  the  Mission  should 
be  so  largely  increased,  when  funds  were  and  had  long  been 
low.  But  he  knew  too  that  it  is  a  safe  thing  to  launch  out 
upon  a  course  of  obedience,  no  matter  what  testings  may 
be  involved. 

"  I  do  feel  more  and  more  the  blessedness  of  real  trust  in 
God,"  he  wrote  to  Dr.  Harold  Schofield  before  the  close  of  the 
year  (Dec.  23).  "  Faith,  He  tries,  but  sustains  :  and  when  our 
faithfulness  fails.  His  remains  unshaken.  '  He  cannot  deny 
Himself.' 

"  I  have  asked  Mr.  Pigott  to  hand  you  some  silver  which  he 
took  back  with  him  to  Shan-si :  I  enclose  receipts.  It  comes 
as  the  answer  to  more  than  usual  prayer ;  may  I  not  hope  that 
a  more  than  usual  blessing  will  rest  on  it  ?  It  is  not  the  much  or 
the  httle  that  is  all-important.  The  handful  of  meal  in  the 
widow's  barrel  might  last  longer  than  a  store  on  which  God's 
blessing  did  not  rest.  I  do  feel  that  our  adorable  Master  has 
made  us  so  rich  in  Himself,  has  so  given  us  the  wealth  of  His  own 
heart's  love  and  aU  that  that  includes  and  implies,  that  we  can 
do  without  any  one  else,  or  anything  else,  as  He  may  see  best. 
It  is  yet  true  that  '  man  doth  not  live  by  bread  alone  '  ;  and 
equally  true  that  yearning  human  hearts  are  not  to  be  satisfied 
with  earthly  love  alone.     How  many  have  to  feel,  if  not  say, 

heart — only  centred  there,  where  I  would  have  it,  instead  of  down  here. 
It  has  made  me  so  happy  !  " 


36o         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

'  Whoso  drinketh  of  this  water  shall  thirst  again  '  1     But  we  can 
sing, 

,  ,  .  Thy  love  so  pure  and  changeless, 

satisfies  my  heart : 
Satisfies  its  deepest  longings  ;  meets, 
supplies  its  every  need  ; 
Compasses  me  round  with  blessing  : 
Thine  is  love  indeed. 

"  The  Lord  Jesus,  this  year  of  very  peculiar  trial  from  almost 
every  quarter,  does  make  my  heart  well  up  and  overflow  with 
His  love.  He  knows  what  our  separations  and  other  incidents 
of  service  mean,  and  He  so  wonderfully  makes  all  loss  gain,  as 
many  seem  unable  to  understand.  Excuse  my  running  on  in 
this  way.  My  glad  heart  seems  as  if  it  must  have  vent,  even 
among  figures  and  remittances." 

A  few  days  later,  in  the  scene  of  his  early  labours  at 
Ningpo  (January  1882),  Mr.  Taylor  was  drafting  an  appeal 
to  the  home  churches  which  in  due  course  was  signed  by 
seventy-seven  members  of  the  Mission  in  China.  The  sense 
of  responsibility  that  lay  behind  it,  as  well  as  its  quiet  con- 
fidence in  God  may  be  judged  from  the  following  extracts : 

Souls  on  every  hand  are  perishing  for  lack  of  knowledge  ; 
more  than  a  thousand  every  hour  are  passing  away  into  death 
and  darkness.  .  .  .  Provinces  in  China  compare  in  area  with 
kingdoms  in  Europe,  and  average  between  ten  and  twenty 
millions  in  population.  One  province  has  no  missionary  ;  one 
has  only  one,  an  unmarried  missionary  ;  in  each  of  two  other 
provinces  there  is  only  one  missionary  and  his  wife  resident ; 
and  none  are  sufficiently  supplied  with  labourers.  Can  we  leave 
matters  thus  without  incurring  the  sin  of  blood-guiltiness  ? 

After  requesting  prayer  for  more  workers  "  in  connection 
with  every  Protestant  missionary  society  on  both  sides  of 
the  Atlantic,"  the  needs  of  the  C.I.M.  were  specially  referred 
to. 

A  careful  survey  of  the  spiritual  work  to  which  we  ourselves 
are  called  .  .  .  has  led  us  to  feel  the  importance  of  immediate 
and  large  remforcements,  and  many  of  us  are  daily  pleading 
with  God  in  agreed  pra37er  for  forty-two  additional  men  and 
twenty-eight  additional  women,  called  and  sent  out  by  God, 
to  assist  us  in  carrying  on  and  extending  the  work  already  com- 
mitted to  our  charge.     We  ask  our  brothers  and  sisters  in  Christ 


DEEPER  DOWN  361 

at  home  to  join  us  in  praying  the  Lord  of  the  Harvest  to  thrust 
out  this  "  other  seventy  also."  We  are  not  anxious  as  to  the 
means  for  sending  them  forth  or  sustaining  them.  He  has  told 
us  to  look  to  the  birds  and  flowers,  and  to  take  no  thought  for 
these  things,  but  to  seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  His 
righteousness,  and  that  all  these  things  shall  be  added  unto  us. 
But  we  are  concerned  that  only  men  and  women  called  of  God, 
fully  consecrated  to  Him,  and  counting  everything  precious  as 
dross  and  dung  "  for  the  excellency  of  the  knowledge  of  Christ 
Jesus  my  Lord,"  should  come  out  to  join  us  ;  and  we  would  add 
to  this  appeal  a  word  of  caution  and  encouragement,  to  any 
who  may  feel  drawn  to  offer  themselves  for  this  blessed  work. 
OLcaution,  urging  such  to  coimt  the  cost ;  to  wait  prayerfully 
on  God  ;  to  ask  themselves  whether  they  will  really  trust  Him  for 
everything,  wherever  He  may  call  them  to  go.  Mere  romantic 
feeling  will  soon  die  out  amid  the  toilsome  labour  and  constant 
discomforts  and  trials  of  inland  work,  and  will  not  be  worth 
much^when  severe  illness  arises  and  perhaps  all  the  money  is 
gone.  Faith  in  the  living  God  alone  gives  joy  and  rest  in  such 
circumstances.  But  a  word  also  of  encouragement,  for  we  our- 
selves have  proved  God's  faithfulness  and  the  blessedness  of 
dependence  on  Him.  He  is  supplying  and  ever  has  supplied 
all  our  need.  And  if  not  seldom  we  have  fellowship  in  poverty 
with  Him  Who  for  our  sakes  became  poor,  shall  we  not  rejoice 
if  the  Day  prove  that  we  have  been,  Hke  the  great  missionary 
Apostle,  "poor,  yet  making  many  rich;  having  nothing,  yet 
possessing  all  things  "  ?  He  makes  us  very  happy  in  His  service, 
and  those  of  us  who  have  children  desire  nothing  better  for  them, 
should  the  Lord  tarry,  than  that  they  may  be  called  to  similar 
work  and  similar  joys.^ 

What  should  we  not  expect  from  1882  after  this  beginning, 
with  the  prayer  for  the  Seventy  being  taken  up  in  such  a 
spirit  throughout  the  Mission  ?  Should  we  not  confidently 
look  for  a  rising  tide  of  spiritual  blessing  both  at  home  and 
in  China,  and  that  Mr.  Taylor  especially,  as  representing  the 
movement,  should  be  led  on  from  strength  to  strength  ? 
Perhaps  a  deeper  knowledge  not  only  of  the  "  acts  "  but  of 
the  "  ways  **  of  God  would  modify  such  expectations,  and 
lessen  the  surprise  with  which  one  finds  the  reality  to  have 

^  Shortly  before  this  was  written,  Mr.  Taylor  had  welcomed  his  eldest 
son  to  China,  Mr.  Herbert  Taylor,  who  tor  thirty-six  years  has  continued 
in  faithful  labours-i— first  in  the  Chefoo  Schools,  and  subsequently  in 
evangehstic  and  pastoral  work. 


362         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

been  very  different.  For  in  England  as  in  China,  difficulties 
did  not  lessen.  Working  to  the  limit  of  his  powers,  Mr. 
Broomhall  was  not  able  to  report  any  decided  increase 
either  of  funds  or  of  service.  Eleven  new  workers  were  sent 
out,  but  three  only  of  the  number  were  men,  when  five  times 
as  many  had  been  hoped  for.  So  great  was  the  trial  as  to 
shortness  of  supplies  that  Mr.  Taylor  could  scarcely  wonder 
at  the  retirement  of  one  and  another  from  the  Mission 
whom  he  knew  to  be  loosely  attached  to  its  principles. 
Government  posts  were  to  be  had  at  a  salary  of  fifty  pounds 
a  month,  in  which  it  was  easy  to  think  that  exceptional 
opportunities  for  usefulness  would  be  found.  And,  most 
sorrowful  of  all,  as  he  moved  from  place  to  place  the  work 
in  some  important  stations  seemed  to  be  going  back  rather 
than  forward. 

Faith  was  thus  thrown  into  the  crucible  in  many  ways, 

and  the  reality  behind  outward  seeming,  both  as  to  Mr. 

Taylor's  own  position  and  that  of  others,  was  tested  as 

never  before.     Weaknesses  were  brought  out  with  startling 

/  clearness — need  of  spiritual  power,  of  organisation,  of  leaders 

I  of  more  calibre.     With  answered  prayer  on  the  one  hand  as 

\  to  the  opening  up  of  inland  China,  and  a  growing  faith  for 

large  reinforcements  on  the  other,  they  were  forced  to  a 

reahsation  of  the  utter  inadequacy  of  existing  arrangements 

[)f  to  carry  on  the  work  even  as  it  was.     And  in  and  through 

it  all,  Mr.  Taylor  himself  was  assailed  by  such  depression, 

loneUness  and  forebodings,  due  in  part  to  illness,  that  one 

stands  amazed  at  the  record  merely — ^the  little  that  could 

be  put  into  letters  of  those  long  painful  months. 

Yet  the  soul  was  sustained  upon  its  inward  way.  Wonder- 
ful indeed  is  the  conflict,  the  dimly-seen  midnight  wrestKng 
of  this  man  of  prayer  with  his  God.  Much  he  had  known 
already  of  Him  Whose  larger  blessing  he  so  deeply  craved. 
Did  it  seem  in  the  darkness  as  if  all  were  failing  him  ? 
,  Strengthened  and  upheld  by  the  Hand  that  seemed  against 
him,  he  was  yet  to  prove  the  faithfulness  of  Him  to  Whom 
he  clung  with  the  heart-cry,  "  Show  me  now  Thy  Name.'' 

Wilt  Thou  not  yet  to  me  reveal 
Thy  new,  unutterable  name  ? 


DEEPER  DOWN  363 

Tell  me,  I  still  beseech  Thee,  tell ; 

To  know  it  now  resolved  I  am  : 
Wresthng,  I  will  not  let  Thee  go. 

Till  I  Thy  name,  Thy  nature  know. 

What  though  my  shrinking  flesh  complain. 

And  murmur  to  contend  so  long  ? 
I  rise  superior  to  my  pain, 

When  I  am  weak,  then  I  am  strong  ; 
And  when  my  all  of  strength  shall  fail, 

I  shall  with  the  God-Man  prevail. 

Yield  to  me  now  ;  for  I  am  weak. 

But  confident  in  self-despair  ; 
Speak  to  my  heart,  in  blessings  speak. 

Be  conquered  by  my  instant  prayer  ; 
Speak,  or  Thou  never  hence  shalt  move. 

And  tell  me  if  Thy  name  is  Love. 

'Tis  Love  I   'tis  Love  1  Thou  diedst  for  me  1 

I  hear  Thy  whisper  in  my  heart ; 
The  morning  breaks,  the  shadows  flee. 

Pure,  universal  Love  Thou  art ; 
To  me,  to  all,  Thy  mercies  move  : 

Thy  nature  and  Thy  name  is  Love. 

My  prayer  hath  power  with  God  ;   the  grace 

Unspeakable  I  now  receive  ; 
Through  faith  I  see  Thee  face  to  face, 

I  see  Thee  face  to  face,  and  hve  1 
In  vain  I  have  not  wept  and  strove : 

Thy  nature  and  Thy  name  is  Love. 

I  know  Thee,  Saviour,  who  Thou  art, 

Jesus,  the  feeble  sinner's  Friend  ; 
Nor  wilt  Thou  with  the  night  depart. 

But  stay  and  love  me  to  the  end  ; 
Thy  mercies  never  shall  remove  : 

Thy  nature  and  Thy  name  is  Love.^ 

• 

Thus  it  was  that  Hudson  Taylor  held  on— hard  pressed 
in  faith  and  circumstances,  sustained,  borne  down  at  times, 
but  strengthened.  Thus  it  was  that  he  was  brought  out 
victorious. 

1  From  Wesley's  noble  hymn  commencing,  "  Come,  O  Thou  Traveller 
unknown,"  familiar  to  Hudson  Taylor  from  childhood. 


364         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

**  Were  not  my  hope  in  God,  I  should  be  terribly  discouraged 
by  my  recent  visits,"  he  wrote  on  February  13.  "  But  the  Lord 
reigneth."  ■'■ 

Feb.  17  :  I  do  trust  that  good  may  result  from  these  visits. 
They  cost  me  a  good  deal,  physically  and  mentally,  and  do  not 
effect  nearly  as  much  as  I  could  wish. 

Feb.  21 :  May  the  Lord  have  mercy  upon  us,  and  purge  out 
from  among  us  every  false  and  vain  thing,  and  make  us  pure 
and  holy  before  Him  in  love.  .  .  .  These  things  almost  break 
my  heart.  I  do  not  know  what  to  do,  sometimes.  But  if  I 
grieve  over  .  .  .  want  of  Christlike  devotion,  what  must  He 
feel  Who  shed  His  blood  for  souls  ?  Blessed  Jesus  !  how  un- 
worthy of  Thee  /  am.     Make  me  more  hke  Thyself. 

June  16  :  There  are  many  and  serious  difficulties  to  be  met, 
but  the  Lord  is  at  our  right  hand,  and  we  shall  not  be  moved  by 
them  if  He  uphold  us. 

All  the  way  my  Saviour  leads  me. 
What  have  I  to  ask  beside  ? 

July  7  :  Travelling  by  foot-boat.  I  do  live  in  your  love, 
during  this  long,  long  separation.  If  the  Lord  do  not  come  first, 
it  will  end  ;  but  oh,  the  end  seems  so  far  off !  And  you  are, 
perhaps,  longing  for  me,  I  will  not  say  as  much,  but  in  the  same 
way.  I  am  so  glad  we  can  both  say  **  All  for  Jesus  "  ;  and  He 
fully  knows  how  much  that  "  all  "  means  sometimes,  does  He 
not  ?  May  He  be  gracious  to  us,  and  keep  our  hearts  full  of  His 
manifested  love  and  conscious  presence,  and  then  we  shall  not 
faint  nor  be  weary  by  the  way. 

July  22  :  Chefoo.  I  do  believe  God  is  doing  and  will  do 
great  things  for  us.     As  to  health,  I  never  was  better. 

July  31  :  4  A.M.  ...  I  have  had  a  trying  time  here,  and 
it  is  not  altogether  past  yet.  One  is  very  much  tempted  to  say 
or  to  think,  Satan  is  too  much  for  us,  and  thus  to  dishonour  our 
almighty  Saviour.  ...  By  God's  help,  I  do  manage  to  get  things 
through. 

Aug.  7 :  I  feel  sure  that  if  we  are  only  simple  in  faith  and 
loyal  in  service,  God  will  teach  us  much  that  at  present  we  have 
little  practical  knowledge  of.  .  .  .  Here,  we  all  feel  that  bless- 
ing is  not  far  off.  ...  If  I  were  to  tell  you  the  mercies  we  have 
had  of  late,  the  interpositions  of  God's  hand,  it  would  be  a  long 
letter  !  and  "  yet  there's  more  to  follow."  I  feel  sure  God  will 
do,  is  doing,  great  things  for  us.  Let  us  open  wide  our  mouths 
and  enlarge  our  hearts,  for  He  is  faithful. 

1  This  and  the  following  quotations  are  all  from  letters  to  Mrs.  Taylor. 


DEEPER  DOWN  365 

September  and  October  were  specially  trying  months ; 
since  the  formation  of  the  Mission,  Mr.  Taylor  had  never 
been  more  overwhelmed.  But  for  the  reality  of  that  inward 
sustaining,  he  must  have  broken  down  physically,  if  not  in 
faith  and  courage.  As  it  was,  he  was  consciously  shaken, 
though  not  "  moved.'* 

"  Pray  especially  for  guidance  in  the  organisation  of  the 
work,"  he  wrote  on  October  21,  "  and  for  men  of  calibre  to  carry 
it  on.  .  .  .  Abundant  spiritual  power  and  some  considerable 
capacity  in  leadership  are  just  now  great  desiderata.  If  I  could 
be  free  from  all  but  the  spiritual  oversight,  I  might  do  good  for 
some  time  to  come." 

Nov.  23  :  Sometimes  I  venture  to  indulge  the  hope  that  I 
shall  be  able  to  get  away  in  January,  and  reach  you  early  in 
March.  It  seems  too  good  to  be  true,  and  I  feel  afraid  to  build 
upon  it ;  for,  if  hindered,  the  disappointment  wiU  be  so  great. 
If  I  really  do  know  my  heart,  my  first  wish  is  to  do  God's  will 
in  the  matter ;  but  you  and  the  dear  children  do  draw  so,  that 
I  am  often  afraid  lest  my  motives  in  wishing  to  go  home  quickly 
are  not  so  purely  for  the  furtherance  of  God's  work  as  I  could 
wish.  Oh,  how  graciously  God  has  ordered  it  that  we  are 
*'  accepted  in  the  Beloved,"  "  Complete  in  Him  "  ! 

Dec.  5  :  I  would  not  withhold  anything  from  the  Lord  Jesus. 
I  do  want  to  finish  the  work  He  has  given  me  to  do.  .  .  .  But 
I  think  that  ere  long  He  will  restore  us  to  one  another,  and  I 
hope  the  days  of  our  parting  may  then  be  ended,  and  no  more 
such  lengthened  separations  be  our  lot. 

Dec.  30  :  Shanghai.  To-morrow  (Sunday)  I  preach  at  the 
Masonic  Hall — the  last  morning  sermon  of  1882,  as  I  preached 
the  first.-^  May  God  give  me  the  message.  I  am  glad  to  serve 
Him  here.  It  is  heavy  and  constant  labour,  but  very  happy. 
.  .  .  My  path  will  not  be  easy,  with  regard  to  leaving.  So 
Httle  is  coming  in  at  home.  .  .  .  The  Lord  will  provide,  no 
doubt ;  but  it  seems  as  if  I  must  be  near,  to  pray  and  to  divide 
as  closely  as  possible.  Well  ...  I  am  pra5dng  for  guidance, 
and  He  wiU  give  it.     Many  enjoy  our  meetings.     They  httle 

*  The  "  Shanghai  Free  Christian  Church  "  was  by  this  time  well  estab- 
lished, and  had  been  meeting  in  the  Masonic  Hall  for  twelve  months. 
Mr.  Taylor  was  so  much  interested  in  its  beginnings  and  preached  for 
them  so  frequently  that  he  was  practically  its  first  Pastor.  He  was  suc- 
ceeded by  Messrs.  Pearse,  Judd,  and  other  members  of  the  Mission,  for 
longer  or  shorter  periods.  Notes  of  many  of  Mr.  Taylor's  sermons  are 
preserved,  sho-wdng  how  faithfully  he  gave  himself  to  this  ministry. 


366         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

know  what  they  cost  you  and  me.      Is  anything  of  value  in 
Christ's  service  which  costs  httle  ? 

Upon  the  cross  of  Jesus,  mine  eye  at  times  can  see 

The  very  dying  form  of  One  Who  suffered  there  for  me. 

How  Hght  our  burdens,  how  small  our  love,  compared  with  that  I  " 

Yet  there  were  gleams  of  brightness,  all  the  more  welcome 
for  the  shadows,  and  some  outstanding  experiences  that 
told  of  a  deepening  work  of  God.  Memorable  among  these 
was  the  Conference  at  An-king  in  June,  when  Mr.  Taylor 
spoke  on  a  subject  that  was  filling  his  heart.  To  some  it 
may  seem  strange  that  the  Scripture  from  which  he  derived 
most  of  the  "  power  of  endurance  and  encouragement  "  ^ 
he  so  sorely  needed  at  this  time  was  the  Song  of  Solomon ; 
but  those  who  have  been  brought  by  the  King  into  '*  His 
chambers  "  in  the  treasure-house  of  its  inspired  pages  will 
know  the  matchless  revelation  they  contain  of  "  the  love 
that  passeth  knowledge  "  and  the  response  it  seeks  from  its 
own.  This  was  Mr.  Taylor's  theme  at  the  Conference,  and 
much  of  the  most  helpful  ministry  of  his  later  years  may  be 
traced  to  the  same  source.^ 

"  I  have  gone  through  the  Canticles  in  the  way  of  exposition 
during  this  visit,"  he  wrote  to  Mrs.  Taylor  from  An-king,  "  and 
the  Lord  has  wonderfully  opened  His  heart  to  us  aU.  We  have 
also  dwelt  on  some  of  the  distinctive  principles  of  our  position 
and  work,  I  think  with  great  profit." 

And  a  few  days  later  : 

I  wish  I  could  give  you  any  adequate  idea  of  the  blessing 
we  have  had  in  An-king.  ...  So  long  as  God  gives  us  such 
times  as  these,  we  will  not  be  cast  down,  however  great  the  difficul- 
ties and  trials  by  the  way. 

^  A  literal  rendering  of  Romans  xv.  4.  See  The  New  Testament  in 
Modern  Speech — Dr.  Weymouth. 

*  It  is  worthy  of  notice  that  just  as  Mr.  Taylor's  first  insight  into  the 
spiritual  teaching  of  the  Song  of  Solomon  was  obtained  in  the  period  of 
trial  and  testing  that  preceded  his  first  marriage  (see  Hudson  Taylor  in 
Early  Years,  p.  426),  so  now  in  heart-loneliness  and  prolonged  separation 
from  home  and  loved  ones  it  became  as  never  before  his  "garden  of  deUghts." 
In  Union  and  Communion  (price  is.  from  the  Offices  of  the  C.I.M.)  will 
be  found  the  line  of  thought  which  made  him  to  many  the  most  practically 
helpful  expositor  of  this  book. 


DEEPER  DOWN  367 

It  was  chiefly  for  an  outpouring  of  a  spirit  of  prayer  that 
this  Conference  was  memorable,  and  for  the  manifest 
presence  and  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Seven  months  had 
now  elapsed  since  in  a  similar  gathering  the  decision  had 
been  reached  to  ask  in  faith  for  seventy  new  fellow-workers, 
and  to  this  little  company  on  their  knees  at  An-king  came 
a  wonderful  confirmation  of  their  convictions  as  to  that 
purpose. 

"  We  have  had  a  day  of  united  fasting  and  prayer  to-day," 
Mr.  Tajdor  wrote  on  June  30,  "  and  a  wonderful  time  of  blessing 
it  has  been.  The  Holy  Spirit  seemed  so  to  fill  us  this  morning 
that  several  of  us  felt  as  if  we  could  not  bear  any  more." 

And  to  another  correspondent : 

I  wish  it  were  possible  to  give  you  any  idea  of  the  wonderful 
time  of  blessing  we  have  had  at  An-king.  They  are  a  band  of 
fully  consecrated  workers  there,  and  were  ready  for  blessing. 
.  .  .  We  arranged  on  my  arrival  for  two  meetings  each  day, 
7-9  A.M.  and  P.M.,  and  often  went  beyond  these  hours ;  and 
some  of  the  stronger  ones  spent  a  large  part  of  several  nights 
in  prayer.  On  the  morning  of  our  fast-day  the  Holy  Spirit 
seemed  so  to  fill  several  of  us  that  each  felt  (as  we  found  in  private 
conversation  afterwards)  that  we  could  not  bear  any  more  and 
live, 

Mr.  Parrott  wrote  of  one  meeting  in  which  prayer  with 
thanksgiving,  especially  for  the  Seventy,  continued  without 
intermission  for  almost  two  hours  ;  and  one  cannot  but  trace 
the  rising  tide  of  spiritual  blessing  that  began  to  make 
itself  felt,  to  the  waiting  upon  God  of  this  and  of  other 
special  meetings  toward  the  close  of  the  year. 

Meanwhile,  Mr.  Taylor  had  paid  another  visit  to  the 
district  in  which  he  had  found  a  few  months  previously  so 
much  to  discourage.  Then  he  had  written  of  his  efforts 
being  all  or  "  nearly  all  in  vain,  so  far  as  this  part  of  the 
work  is  concerned."  Now,  baptized  afresh  with  a  spirit  of 
love,  he  was  enabled  to  find  his  way  to  hearts  that  had 
seemed  closed  against  him,  and  a  work  of  grace  was  the 
result,  that  was  not  only  to  save  valuable  workers  from 
being  lost  to  the  Mission,  but  was  to  set  them  in  its  front 
rank  as  regards  fruitfulness  in  soul-winning. 


368         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

It  was  at  Chefoo  that  the  later  months  of  the  year  were 
spent  and  some  of  its  most  important  work  accomphshed  ;  ^ 
and  there  Mr.  Taylor  begun  to  see  his  way  at  length  to 
returning  to  England.  There,  too,  faith  was  encouraged  by 
definite  answers  to  prayer  in  the  matter  of  funds.  Early  in 
October,  for  example,  they  were  looking  with  special  expect- 
ancy for  the  home  remittance,  autumn  journeys  having  to 
be  provided  for  those  who  were  going  up  country,  to  whom 
Mr.  Taylor  would  have  been  glad  to  entrust  extra  supphes 
for  their  own  and  other  stations. 

"  We  were  at  table,"  he  recalled,  "  when  we  received  our 
letters  (the  home  mail)  ;  and  when  on  opening  one  of  them  I 
found,  instead  of  seven  or  eight  hundred  pounds  for  the  month's 
supplies,  only  £96  :  9  :  5,  my  feehngs  I  shall  not  soon  forget  I 

"  I  closed  the  envelope  again,  and  seeking  my  room, 
knelt  down  and  spread  the  letter  before  the  Lord,  asking  Him 
what  was  to  be  done  with  less  than  ninety-seven  pounds — a 
sum  it  was  impossible  to  distribute  over  seventy  stations  in 
which  were  eighty  or  ninety  missionaries,  including  their  \vives, 
not  to  speak  of  about  a  hundred  native  helpers,  and  more  than 
that  number  of  native  children  to  be  fed  and  clothed  in  our 
schools.  Having  first  rolled  the  burden  on  the  Lord,  I  then 
mentioned  the  matter  to  others  of  our  own  Mission  in  Chefoo, 
and  we  unitedly  looked  to  Him  to  come  to  our  aid  ;  but  no  hint 
as  to  our  circumstances  was  allowed  to  reach  any  one  outside. 

*'  Soon  the  answers  began  to  come — kind  gifts  from  local 
friends  who  Uttle  knew  the  pecuUar  value  of  their  donations, 
and  help  in  other  ways,  until  the  needs  of  the  month  were  all 
met  without  our  having  been  burdened  with  anxious  thought 
even  for  an  hour.  We  had  similar  experiences  in  November 
and  again  in  December  ;  and  on  each  occasion,  after  spreading 
the  letter  before  the  Lord  and  leaving  the  burden  with  Him, 
we  were  '  helped.'  Thus  the  Lord  made  our  hearts  sing  for 
joy,  and  provided  through  local  contributions  in  China  for  the 
needs  of  the  work  as  never  before  nor  since." 


*  One  outgrowth  of  the  manifold  testings  of  this  year  was  the  increas- 
ing attention  given  to  the  question  of  organisation  within  the  Mission, 
about  which  several  circular  letters  were  sent  to  all  the  stations.  One 
of  them,  dated  August  12,  1882,  gave  permanence  to  the  arrangement  by 
which  Mr.  Coulthard  had  for  some  time  been  acting  as  Mr.  Taylor's  repre- 
sentative at  Wu-chang,  especially  in  financial  matters  for  the  western 
and  north-western  provinces,  and  Mr.  Parrott  as  Corresponding  Secretary 
dealing  with  letters  that  did  not  need  the  Director's  personal  attention. 


DEEPER  DOWN  369 

Encouraged  in  this  way  to  remember  that  it  was  the 
Lord  to  Whom  they  must  look,  and  not  to  friends  in  England, 
the  little  circle  at  Chefoo  were  the  more  prepared  for  Mr. 
Taylor's  suggestion  that  they  should  unite  in  asking  some 
definite  "  token  for  good  "  of  the  same  sort  to  strengthen 
faith  at  home.  Letters  received  had  shown  how  really 
concerned  were  some  of  the  workers  and  friends  of  the 
Mission  as  to  the  appeal  for  the  Seventy.  It  had  been  kept 
in  the  background  as  much  as  possible,  just  because  it  seemed 
too  great  an  advance  to  contemplate  at  such  a  time  ;  and 
Mr.  Taylor,  who  by  no  means  ignored  the  difficulty,  felt  it 
laid  on  his  heart  to  ask  the  Lord  to  put  His  seal  upon  the 
matter  in  a  way  that  could  not  be  mistaken.  It  was  at  one 
of  the  daily  prayer  meetings  at  Chefoo,  on  or  about  the 
first  of  February  (1883),  and  the  few  who  were  present  were 
conscious  of  much  liberty  in  laying  their  request  before 
God. 

"  We  knew  that  our  Father  loves  to  please  His  children," 
Mr.  Taylor  wrote  in  recalling  this  experience,  "  what  father 
does  not  ?  And  we  asked  Him  lovingly  to  please  us,  as  well  as 
to  encourage  timid  ones  at  home,  by  leading  some  one  of  His 
wealthy  stewards  to  make  room  for  a  large  blessing  for  himself 
and  his  family  by  giving  hberally  to  this  special  object." 

A  few  days  later  Mr.  Taylor  sailed  for  England,  and  it 
was  not  until  they  stopped  at  Aden  that  he  learned  the 
sequel.  No  account  of  that  special  prayer-meeting  had  been 
written  home,  nor  could  a  letter  of  that  date  have  reached 
London  until  the  end  of  March.  But  at  Pyrland  Road,  Mr. 
Broomhall  had  the  great  and  unexpected  joy  of  receiving — 
on  the  second  of  February — a  sum  of  three  thousand  pounds 
for  work  in  China,  contributed  by  friends  whose  confidence 
he  enjoyed  in  a  special  way. 

Nor  was  this  all.  On  landing  at  Marseilles,  Mr.  Taylor 
took  the  opportunity  of  visiting  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Berger  at 
Cannes. 

"  The  April  China's  Millions  there  came  to  hand,"  he  wrote, 
**  and  I  found  in  the  list  of  donations  this  three  thousand  pounds, 
acknowledged  under  the  date  of  February  2,  with  the  text, 
'  Ask  of  Me,  and  I  will  give  thee  the  heathen  for  thine  inherit- 

2  B 


370 


THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 


ance,  and  the  uttermost  parts  of  the  earth  for  thy  possession/ 
as  follows : 

Father     .         .         .  £1000 


Mother    . 

1000 

Mary 
Rosie 

200 
200 

Bertie 

200 

Amy 
Henry     . 

200 
200 

£3000 

"  It  was  most  striking  to  see  how  Hterally  God  had  fulfilled 
our  prayer,  and  led  His  faithful  steward  to  make  room  for  a 
large  blessing  for  himself  and  his  family.  Never  before  was  a 
donation  sent  to  us  in  such  a  way,  and  never  since,  save  on  one 
occasion,  a  year  and  five  months  later,  when  a  donation  for  the 
same  fund  is  entered  thus  in  Chinas  Millions  : 


Father 
Mother 

.  £200 
200 

Mary 
Rosie 

100 
100 

Bertie 

100 

Amy 

Henry 

Baby 

100 
100 
100 

£1000 

"  A  beautiful  instance,  this,  of  a  father  who  seeks  that  each 
member  of  his  family  should  have  '  treasure  in  heaven/  " 


CHAPTER  XXVI 

ABOVE  ALL  THAT  YE  ASK 
1883-1884.     Aet.  51-52. 

Paris  and  Easter-tide  :  how  little  had  either  Mr.  or  Mrs. 
Taylor  in  their  long  separation  imagined  such  a  setting  for 
the  reunion  that  came  at  length  !  Even  the  day  or  two 
spent  at  Cannes  had  seemed  long  when  the  traveller  learned 
who  was  coming  to  meet  him.  Before  leaving  China  he  had 
been  much  impressed  with  the  prophecy  of  Zephaniah, 
especially  the  closing  chapter  with  its  wonderful  revelation 
of  the  heart  of  God  :  "  The  Lord  thy  God  in  the  midst  of 
thee  is  mighty  ;  He  will  save,  He  will  rejoice  over  thee  with 
joy  ;  He  will  rest  (or  "  be  silent  ")  in  His  love,  He  will  joy 
over  thee  with  singing." 

"  The  whole  passage  had  been  made  a  great  blessing  to  me," 
he  said,  "  but  it  was  not  until  I  reached  Paris  that  I  learned 
the  full  preciousness  of  this  clause.  For  there  I  was  met  by  my 
beloved  wife  (after  a  separation  of  fifteen  months),  and  as  we 
sat  side  by  side  in  the  cab,  though  she  had  so  much  to  say  and 
I  had  too,  I  could  only  take  her  hand  and  be  silent — the  joy 
was  too  deep  for  words.  Then  it  came  home  to  me  :  if  all  this 
of  earthly  affection  is  but  the  type,  what  must  it  be  when  He  is 
'  silent  in  His  love  '  ?  And  that  love  is  drawn  out  by  our  trust. 
Oh,  it  is  such  a  pity  to  hinder  !  " 

Reaching  home  at  the  end  of  March,  Mr.  Taylor  was  in 
good  time  for  spring  and  summer  meetings,  and  soon  had 
cause  to  notice  the  new  position  accorded  to  the  Mission  in 
the  esteem  of  the  Christian  public.  The  eight  years  of  Mr. 
Broomhall's  unwearied  labours  had  told  especially  in  the 

371 


372         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

direction  which  was  his  forte — ^that  of  inspiring  confidence 
and  making  friends.  Then,  too,  the  achievements  of  the 
pioneers,  women  as  well  as  men,  in  effecting  a  settled  resi- 
dence in  almost  all  the  inland  provinces  had  called  forth 
thanksgiving  to  God.  In  many  parts  of  the  country  people 
were  wanting  to  hear  how  the  seemingly  impossible  had  been 
brought  to  pass ;  how,  without  appeals  for  money  or  even 
collections,  the  work  had  been  sustained ;  and  how  in  the 
most  distant  parts  of  China  little  groups  of  converts  were 
being  gathered.  Meetings,  therefore — meetings  in  all  direc- 
tions— soon  claimed  the  leader  of  the  Mission — the  un- 
obtrusive man  so  sure  of  his  great  God  ! 

The  correspondence  of  the  next  two  years,  the  period  of 
Mr.  Taylor's  stay  in  England,  is  deeply  interesting  from  this 
point  of  view.  To  him  who  had  never  sought  it  had  come 
the  loving  appreciation  of  high  and  low,  rich  and  poor,  old 
and  young,  to  a  remarkable  degree. 

"  If  you  are  not  dead  yet,"  was  the  charming  communication 
of  a  child  at  Cambridge  to  whom  "  Hudson  Taylor  "  was  a  house- 
hold word,  "  I  want  to  send  you  the  money  I  have  saved  up  to 
help  the  little  boys  and  girls  of  China  to  love  Jesus." 

"  Will  you  do  me  the  kindness,"  urged  Canon  Wilberforce 
of  Southampton,  "  to  give  a  Bible  reading  in  my  house  to  about 
sixty  people  .  .  .  and  spend  the  night  with  us  ?  Please  do  us 
this  favour,  in  the  Master's  name." 

"  Much  love  to  you  in  the  Lord,"  wrote  Lord  Radstock  from 
the  Continent.  "  You  are  a  great  help  to  us  in  England  by 
strengthening  our  faith." 

From  Dr.  Andrew  Bonar  came  a  hundred  pounds, 
forwarded  from  an  unknown  Presbyterian  friend  "  who 
cares  for  the  land  of  Sinim."  Spurgeon  sent  his  character- 
istic invitations  to  the  Tabernacle,  and  Miss  Macpherson  to 
Bethnal  Green. 

"  My  heart  is  still  in  the  glorious  work,"  wrote  Mr.  Berger, 
with  a  cheque  for  5^500.  "  Most  heartily  do  I  join  you  in  pray- 
ing for  seventy  more  labourers — but  do  not  stop  at  seventy  ! 
Surely  we  shall  see  greater  things  than  these,  if  we  are  empty 
of  self  and  only  seeking  God's  glory  and  the  salvation  of  souls." 

There  are  letters  from  the  nobleman  inviting  Mr.  Taylor 
to  his  castle,  and  from  the  old  family  servant,  sending  a  gift 


ABOVE  ALL  THAT  YE  ASK  373 

for  China  after  his  departure.  And  there  are  letters,  above 
all,  telling  of  blessing  received  in  the  meetings,  not  through 
Mr.  Taylor's  addresses  only,  but  through  his  personality 
and  spirit. 

"  It  was  the  man  himself  we  were  drawn  to,'*  wrote  one  of  / 
the  new  friends  of  this  year  (the  Rev.  J.  J.  Luce  of  Gloucester). 
"  It  was  what  he  was  that  gave  such  sweet,  undying  force  to,^ 
what  he  did.  .  .  .  Behind  it  aU  was  a  wealth  of  faith  and  know- 
ledge of  God,  and  of  experience  in  His  ways,  that  made  you  feel 
a  dwarf  indeed  in  comparison. 

"  Never  can  I  forget  a  meeting  in  our  schoolroom  one  summer 
evening  (June  1883).  It  was  an  after-meeting  at  the  close  of  a 
Convention  for  the  Deepening  of  Spiritual  Life,  and  a  group  of 
young  men  gathered  round  him  while  he  told  in  the  simplest  way 
the  story  of  his  student  days,  and  of  his  preparation  for  the 
work  in  China  to  which  the  Lord  had  called  him.  The  effect 
on  my  own  spirit,  and  I  think  upon  others  too,  was  overwhelming. 
I  felt  as  though  I  had  never  yet  given  up  anything  for  Christ, 
never  yet  learned  to  trust  the  Lord.  ...  I  was  so  moved  that 
I  had  to  ask  Mr.  Taylor  to  stop  :  my  heart  was  broken.  .  .  . 
We  were  only  twelve  all  told  on  that  occasion,  but  three  went 
to  China  as  a  result."  ^ 

"  To  me,  1883  was  a  place  of  great  darkness,"  wrote  a  godly 
woman  occupying  a  position  of  influence,  "  and  the  foundations 
of  faith  were  shaken.  I  did  not  speak  to  any  one  of  what  I  was 
passing  through,  for  I  knew  everything,  as  I  thought,  in  theory." 

Constrained  by  the  duties  of  her  position  to  attend  a 
conference  of  which  her  husband  was  Convener,  she  expected 
nothing  but  weariness  from  the  missionary  meeting,  to 
which  she  went  conscious  of  "  intense  soul-hunger,  under- 
neath rebellion  and  unbelief." 

"  As  Mr.  Taylor  began  to  speak,"  she  continued,  "  a  great 
calm  and  stillness  came  over  me — a  fresh  revelation  of  God's 
coming  down  to  meet  human  need.  The  fountains  of  my  in- 
most being  were  broken  up  ...  I  saw  a  little  of  what  consecra- 
tion reaUy  meant ;  and  as  I  began  to  yield  myself  to  God,  fresh  ' 
hope,  Ught  and  gladness  came  into  my  life — streams  that  have 
been  flowing  ever  since." 

^  And  Mr.  Luce  himself,  who  wished  he  could  have  gone  to  China, 
became  not  only  one  of  Mr.  Taylor's  best-loved  friends,  but  a  member  of 
the  London  Council  and  a  true  prayer  helper  in  the  Mission  ;  a  ministry 
continued  to  this  day. 


374         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Many  conferences  that  summer  and  autumn  gave  Mr. 
Taylor  access  to  representative  audiences  ;  opportunities  he 
did  not  fail  to  make  use  of,  though  in  a  way  all  his  own. 

"  When  he  was  speaking,"  Mr.  Luce  recalled,  "  you  could 
be  quite  sure  that,  whatever  else  he  might  say,  he  would  make 
no  plea  for  funds.  Often  I  used  to  hear  him  explain,  almost 
apologetically,  that  his  great  desire  was  that  no  funds  should  be 
diverted  from  other  societies  to  the  China  Inland  Mission  ;  and 
that  it  was  for  this  reason  he  had  taken  up  lines  of  working 
which  he  hoped  would  preclude  interference  with  other  organisa- 
tions. Nothing  gave  him  more  genuine  pleasure  than  to  speak 
well  of  other  missions.  .  .  .  "" 

"  Oh,  the  self-emptied  spirit,  the  dignified  way  in  which  his 
hfe  of  faith  was  hved  out,  the  reality  of  it  all !  Instead  of 
wanting  to  get  anything  out  of  you,  he  was  always  ready  to 
give  to  you.  His  heart  and  mind  were  full  of  that.  Some 
people  seem  to  be  asking  all  the  time,  though  they  may  not  do 
so  in  actual  words  :   he — never." 

At  the  Salisbury  Conference  Canon  Thwaites  was  im- 
pressed with  Mr.  Taylor's  humility  more  than  anything 
else — "or  the  way,  rather,  in  which  God  clothed  him  with 
humility.*'  Yet  there  was  power  in  his  addresses,  especially 
in  the  missionary  meeting,  a  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit  which 
"  was  intense,  almost  awful "  ;  and  of  the  praise  meeting 
with  which  the  Conference  ended,  Mrs.  Thwaites  hardly 
knew  how  to  write.  No  reference  was  made  on  that  occasion 
to  the  Inland  Mission,  but  it  was  for  China  that  lives  were 
consecrated  and  money  flowed  in.  In  spite  of  there  being 
no  collection,  people  emptied  their  purses,  stripped  them- 
selves of  their  jewels,  handed  over  watches,  chains,  rings  and 
the  Hke,  and  gave  their  Hves  to  God  for  His  service. 

Fifteen  or  sixteen  offers  for  the  mission-field  were  the  result, 
and  a  whole  jewelry  case  was  sent  in  next  day.  People  had 
received  so  much  that  they  felt  they  could  give  anything. 

So  fully  were  Mr.  Taylor's  time  and  strength  occupied  in 
these  ways  that  it  is  amazing  to  find  how  much  he  was  doing 
all  the  while  of  correspondence  and  his  own  special  work  in 
the  Mission.  From  a  pair  of  substantial  manuscript  books 
lying  before  us,  we  might  conclude  that  he  had  been  wholly 


ABOVE  ALL  THAT  YE  ASK  375 

engrossed  in  directorial  duties,  instead  of  being  almost  con- 
tinuously engaged  in  meetings.  One  of  these  volumes 
contains  a  list  of  his  China  letters — ^when  received,  when 
answered,  with  a  line  as  to  their  contents — and  the  other  is 
filled  in  the  same  way  with  particulars  about  home  corre- 
spondence. From  this  source  alone  one  learns  of  two 
thousand  six  hundred  letters  attended  to  by  Mr.  Taylor 
personally  (Mrs.  Taylor  often  acting  as  his  amanuensis) 
during  a  period  of  ten  months,  fully  taken  up  with  travelHng 
and  meetings.  Little  wonder  he  began  to  need  a  private 
secretary. 

Much  prayerful  thought  was  being  given  also  to  a  subject 
second  to  none  in  its  importance,  that  of  organisation  within 
the  Mission,  on  the  China  side  of  things  especially.  In 
frequent  meetings  with  the  Council  and  in  private  conversa- 
tions, Mr.  Taylor  was  seeking  light  upon  how  to  prepare  for 
the  larger  growth  that  was  coming,  and  after  five  months  at 
home — busy  though  he  was  with  Summer  Conferences — he 
sent  out  a  carefully  considered  letter  to  all  the  members  of 
the  Mission,  stating  what  v/as  proposed  and  asking  their 
judgement.^ 

Meanwhile,  out  in  China  the  need  for  reinforcements  was 
increasingly  felt.  Five  only  had  been  sent  out  in  the  first 
quarter  of  the  year,  but  fifteen  sailed  in  the  months  that 

*  "  It  is  important  to  secure  that  no  contingency  shall  alter  the  char- 
acter of  the  Mission,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  (Aug.  24,  1883),  "  or  throw  us  off 
those  lines  which  God  has  so  signally  owned  and  blessed  from  the  commence- 
ment. But  our  home  arrangement  of  assisting  the  Director  by  a  Council 
may  be  introduced  into  the  China  work  ;  the  members  of  that  Council 
may  themselves  be  Superintendents  of  districts,  in  which  capacity  they 
may  in  their  turn  be  assisted  by  district  Councils  of  our  missionaries.  In 
all  this  no  new  principle  will  be  introduced,  yet  our  work  will  be  rendered 
capable  of  indefinite  expansion  while  maintaining  its  original  character. 
Many  local  matters  can  thus  be  locally  considered  and  attended  to  with- 
out delay,  and  local  as  well  as  general  developments  will  be  facilitated. 
I  have  hitherto  had  the  opportunity  of  conferring  only  with  those  of  our 
number  who  might  be  within  reach,  and  that  at  irregular  intervals.  The 
plan  I  now  propose  will,  through  the  district  Superintendents,  bring  me 
into  conference  with  all  our  missionaries  of  experience,  and  will  secure 
an  increasingly  effective  supervision  of  the  whole  work.  It  will  also  make 
apparent  what  has  all  along  been  the  case — that  all  important  measures 
are  adopted  only  after  full  conference  with  those  best  quahfied  to  throw 
light  upon  them.  ...  I  shall  be  glad  to  hear  from  you  how  these  sugges- 
tions strike  you,  and  how  far  they  commend  themselves  to  your  mind." 


376         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

followed,^  and  many  fresh  candidates  were  in  touch  with  the 
Mission. 

"  We  look  anxiously  for  news  of  the  coming  Seventy," 
wrote  Mr.  Easton  from  the  north-western  province  of  Shen-si, 
"  and  trust  that  warm-hearted,  earnest  brothers  may  join  us 
here." 

And  from  Tai-yuan-fu,  the  capital  of  the  adjoining 
province,  Dr.  Schofield  sent  a  special  plea  : 

We  are  praying  daily  for  the  seventy  new  labourers,  and 
I  hope  that  at  least  four  of  them  will  come  to  this  province. 
There  are  now  three  or  four  towns  within  a  day  or  two's  journey, 
in  each  of  which  we  have  old  patients — three  of  them  double 
cataract  cases  who  can  see  well.  Some  of  them  are  not  only 
grateful,  but  were  seemingly  interested  in  the  Gospel  while  with 
us.    These  openings  I  long  to  see  followed  up. 

He  did  not  say  how  deeply  he  was  burdened  for  the 
whole,  great,  waiting  land,  with  its  teeming  millions ;  how 
stealing  time  from  work  and  rest  he  was  giving  himself  to 
prayer,  day  by  day,  that  men  of  God  might  be  raised  up  for 
its  evangelisation  ;  how  labouring  beyond  his  strength  he 
was  becoming  known  not  only  as  the  wonder-working 
doctor,  who  could  restore  sight  to  the  blind  and  almost  raise 
the  dead,  but  as  the  man  with  a  message,  the  unwearied 
preacher  with  the  heart  of  love. 

To  the  crowded  dispensary  there  came  a  patient  with 
virulent  diphtheria.  The  doctor  did  what  he  could,  but 
having  no  isolation  ward  was  reluctantly  compelled  to  refuse 
the  poor  man  admission.  Returning  later,  however,  he 
managed  to  elude  the  gate-keeper,  and  crept  into  a  small 
room  near  the  entrance,  in  which  before  morning  he  died. 
Hearing  to  his  concern  that  a  patient  had  passed  awa}^  the 
doctor  hastened  to  the  spot.  The  odour  in  the  room  was 
overpowering,  and  a  glance  revealed  the  danger  to  which 
he  and  others  were  exposed.  In  the  prime  of  his  manhood, 
after  only  three  years  in  China — the  three  happiest  years  of 

1  The  first  to  sail  after  Mr.  Taylor's  return  was  Mr.  Marcus  Wood, 
now  and  for  many  years  the  beloved  Secretary  of  the  Mission  in  England, 
with  whom  Mr.  J.  N.  Hay  ward,  for  many  years  Treasurer  in  Shanghai, 
has  recently  been  associated. 


ABOVE  ALL  THAT  YE  ASK  377 

his  life,  as  he  had  written  more  than  once — Harold  Scho- 
field's  work  on  earth  was  done. 

But  why  recall  it  now  ?  What  had  it  to  do  with  the 
special  developments  of  1883  ?  Only  this — that  Schofield 
died  praying.  During  all  the  later  months  of  his  life,  full 
_as  they  were  of  splendid  service,  his  chief  pre-occupation 
Jiad  been  prayer.  For  this  he  would  leave  wife  and  children, 
denying  himself  rest  and  recreation,  and  making  time  at 
any  cost  foi;  waiting  upon  God.  It  was  China  that  was  on 
his  heart — and  the  sleeping  Church  at  home.  And  the 
petition  he  urged  with  special  fervency  was  that  God  would 
touch  the  young  life  of  our  universities,  and  raise  up  men  of 
gifts  and  education  for  His  work  among  the  heathen.  There 
was  no  Student  Christian  Federation  in  those  days,  no 
Volunteer  Movement  in  any  of  the  Colleges.  Himself  a 
distinguished  prizeman,  who  had  taken  more  than  £1400 
in  scholarships,  he  knew  well  the  value  of  thorough  mental 
training  ;  and  remembering  all  that  had  been  said  in  his 
own  case  about  "  sacrifice  of  brilliant  prospects,"  he  prayed 
for  a  new  spirit  to  come  over  Christian  thinking,  more  in 
harmony  with  His  Who  "  made  Himself  of  no  reputation  " 
that  dying  souls  might  hve. 

It  was  the  ist  of  August  when  Harold  Schofield,  stricken 
with  a  malignant  fever,  laid  down  his  hfe  in  the  work  he  so 
truly  loved.  But  the  prayers  of  those  last  months  had  not 
been  in  vain.  News  of  his  death,  though  cabled  to  England, 
did  not  reach  Mr.  Taylor  immediately,  but  that  very  day  a 
letter  came  to  him  in  the  north  of  England  that  one  cannot 
but  connect  with  Dr.  Schofield's  prayers.  It  was  from  a 
young  officer  in  the  Royal  Artillery  who  had  for  some  time 
been  thinking  of  offering  himself,  he  said,  for  the  work  of 
the  China  Inland  Mission.  He  asked  an  interview  with 
Mr.  Taylor,  signing  the  name  that,  little  as  either  of  them 
could  suppose  it,  was  in  due  course  to  replace  his  own. 
D.  E.  Hoste  writing  from  Sandown  Fort  in  July,  Stanley 
P.  Smith  coming  up  from  Trinity  College  and  his  exploits 
on  the  river,  these  and  the  others  who  joined  them  making 
the  well-known  "  Cambridge  Seven,"  whose  going  out 
awakened  a  new  spirit  indeed  throughout  the  universities 


378         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

of  the  United  Kingdom  and  America,  and  through  them  of 
the  world — ^what  were  they  but  the  answer  to  those  sacred 
pleadings  in  which  a  believing  heart  had  entered  into  fellow- 
ship with  God  ? 

"  I  have  sometimes  thought/*  wrote  the  author  of  The 
Evangelisation  of  the  World,  "  that  in  those  prayers  the  greatest 
work  of  Harold  Schofield's  life  was  accomphshed  :  that,  having 
prayed  thus,  he  had  '  finished  the  work  '  God  had  given  him  to 
do,  and  so  was  taken  to  his  eternal  reward."  ^ 

But  if  1883  was  memorable,  with  its  many  causes  for 
encouragement,  what  shall  be  said  of  1884,  and  the  move- 
ment into  which  these  young  men  came  ?  It  was  a  rising 
tide  indeed  of  spiritual  power  and  blessing  ;  a  year  of  intense 
activity,  in  which  Mr.  Taylor  seemed  to  do  the  work  of  ten  ; 
a  year  of  incessant  meetings,  and  the  flowing  in  of  sympathy 
and  gifts  as  never  before  ;  a  year  of  harvest  in  the  matter  of 
new  friends  and  workers  ;  and  above  all  a  year  of  close  and 
constant  dependence  upon  God.  It  was  the  last  of  the  three 
years  in  which  the  Seventy  were  to  be  given,  according  to 
the  faith  that  had  received  them  from  the  Lord  ;  and  given 
they  were  in  royal  fashion— most  of  the  large  party  that 
sailed  toward  the  end  of  October  being  over  and  above  the 
number. 2  Forty-six  in  all  were  sent  out  during  the  twelve 
months  ;  and  it  was  not  only  the  number  but  the  calibre  of 
the  workers  that  was  remarkable.  Often  must  Mr.  Taylor 
have  been  reminded  of  the  prayer  going  up  from  many 
hearts  that  the  Seventy  might  be  God-sends  as  well  as  God- 
sent  to  China. 

And  here  attention  may  well  be  drawn  to  some  of  the 
outside  influences  that  contributed  to  the  developments  of 

1  Published  a  year  or  two  later  (1885)  under  the  title  A  Missionary 
Band,  this  remarkable  work  by  Mr.  B.  Broomhall  had  a  large  circulation, 
and  powerfully  influenced  the  founders  of  the  Student  Volunteer  Move- 
ment which  came  into  existence  a  few  months  later,  and  which  Dr.  A.  T. 
Pierson  characterised  as  "  the  epiphany  of  youth."  Apart  from  the  Bible, 
Dr.  Robert  Speer  has  stated,  no  books  so  influenced  his  career  as  The 
Evangelisation  of  the  World  and  Blaikie's  Personal  Life  of  Livingstone. 

2  This  was  Miss  Murray's  party,  which,  proceeding  at  once  to  Yang- 
chow,  formed  the  nucleus  of  the  present  invaluable  Training  Home  for 
the  study  of  the  language  (still  under  Miss  Murray's  care),  and  included 
the  httle  band  who  were  used  of  God  to  inaugurate  the  now  fruitful  and 
extensive  work  on  the  Kwang-sin  River. 


ABOVE  ALL  THAT  YE  ASK  379 

this  wonderful  year  and  the  years  that  followed,  chief  among 
which  was  the  second  visit  of  Messrs.  Moody  and  Sankey  to 
the  United  Kingdom.  The  foundations  of  the  CJ.M.  were 
laid,  as  we  have  seen,  at  a  time  when  the  spiritual  life  of  the 
churches  had  been  marvellously  quickened  by  the  Great 
Revival  of  1859.  Moody's  first  visit  in  1873  had  brought  to 
the  front  again  the  supreme  duty  of  soul- winning,  preparing 
the  way  for  many  a  forward  movement,  including  the  appeal 
for  the  Eighteen  and  the  opening  up  of  inland  China  ;  and 
now^  when  a  fresh  advance  was  to  be  made  in  missionary 
enterprise,  the  heart  of  Christian  England  was  being  stirred 
to  its  depths  by  a  practical,  overwhelming  demonstration  of 
the  power  of  the  Gospel.  Who  shall  say  how  much  the 
world-wide  work  of  foreign  missions  owes  to  these  devoted 
evangelists  ? 

Then  there  was  a  book,  equally  simple  and  God-honour- 
ing. Published  many  years  before,  China's  Spiritual  Need 
and  Claims  had  about  it  a  living  power.  Edition  after 
edition  had  been  called  for,  and  always  the  same  deep 
spiritual  influence  seemed  to  flow  from  its  pages.  Steeped 
in  prayer  from  the  first,  it  had  been  used  of  God  continually 
to  call  forth  consecration  in  His  service  ;  and  now  enlarged 
and  brought  up  to  date  it  was  to  have  a  new  lease  of  life  in 
the  attractive  edition  of  1884. 

"  That  was  the  book  that  did  the  work,"  said  Mr.  Stevenson, 
who  was  just  home  from  Burma.  "  At  a  single  meeting  five 
pounds'  worth  would  be  purchased.  Many  new  friends  were 
attached  to  the  Mission  as  a  result,  and  a  constant  stream  of 
gifts  flowed  in. 

"  It  was  a  time  of  remarkable  progress.  Everywhere  we 
had  splendid  openings,  and  neither  labour  nor  forethought  were 
spared  in  making  the  most  of  them.  It  was  a  new  thing  to  be 
able  to  tell  of  China  open  from  end  to  end,  and  the  big  map  we 
carried  with  us  made  it  all  so  real.  M'Carthy's  walk  across 
China  was  of  unique  interest,  and  I  too  had  travelled  overland 
from  Bhamo  to  Shanghai.  Nobody  else  had  such  a  story  to 
tell  in  those  days,  just  as  no  other  mission  had  settled  stations 
far  in  the  interior.  The  outgoing  of  party  after  party  intro- 
duced us  to  many  new  circles,  and  within  the  Mission  itself  all 
was  hope  and  courage." 


38o         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

But  still  it  was  in  prayer  the  work  was  really  done. 
Quietly,  at  the  back  of  everything,  the  spiritual  life  was 
maintained  at  the  heart  of  the  Mission.  Never  had  the 
daily  and  weekly  prayer  meetings  been  more  full  of  power. 
When  Miss  Murray's  party  came  up  from  Glasgow,  for 
example,  on  their  way  to  China,  it  was  no  easy  matter  to 
accommodate  all  who  gathered  on  Saturday  afternoon. 
Many  old  friends  were  present,  including  the  beloved 
Reginald  Radchffe,  aglow  with  holy  enthusiasm.  From 
stirring  scenes  up  north  Mr.  McCarthy  had  come,  and  with 
him  Messrs.  Hoste  and  Stanley  Smith,  Nothing  of  excite- 
ment followed  them,  however ;  the  presence  of  God  and  the 
sense  of  responsibility  were  too  deep  for  that. 

"  We  had  a  glorious  meeting,"  wrote  Mrs.  Taylor  of  this 
occasion  (Oct.  i8).  "  Such  power  I  think  I  never  felt  before. 
It  seemed  as  though  the  world  were  being  moved  in  that  Httle 
room." 

In  the  midst  of  these  experiences  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor 
were  facing  another  long  separation.  The  outgoing  of  so 
many  new  workers  urgently  called  for  his  presence  in  China, 
and  she  could  not  be  spared  from  home.  He  too  seemed 
needed  in  England — never  more  so,  with  doors  opening  on 
every  hand,  candidates  applying  and  friends  ready  to  help. 
Yet  it  was  in  China  the  fight  had  to  be  fought  and  the  new 
recruits  got  into  line.  So  the  parting  had  to  come,  and 
Hudson  Taylor  went  forward  in  the  spirit  of  Livingstone's 
entry  in  his  journal  for  one  of  his  last,  lonely  birthdays  in 
central  Africa  :  "My  Jesus,  my  King,  my  Life,  my  All — 
again  I  dedicate  my  whole  self  to  Thee." 

Sending  Mr.  McCarthy  on  ahead  to  deal  with  the  most 
pressing  matters,  and  leaving  Mr.  Stevenson  to  stand  by 
Mr.  Broomhall  and  the  Council  for  a  while  at  home,  Mr. 
Taylor  was  preparing  to  set  out  early  in  January  with  a 
party  of  young  men,  including  Messrs.  Hoste,  Stanley  Smith, 
and  Cassels,  when  the  unexpected  happened,  and  God's 
purposes  broke  in  upon  these  well-laid  plans  with  an  over- 
flowing fulness  that  carried  all  before  it. 

It  came  about  very  naturally,  and  apart  altogether  from 


ABOVE  ALL  THAT  YE  ASK  381 

design  or  effort.  In  his  History  of  the  Church  Missionary 
Society,  Mr.  Eugene  Stock  speaks  of  "  the  extraordinary 
interest  aroused  in  the  autumn  of  1884  by  the  announcement 
that  the  captain  of  the  Cambridge  Eleven  and  the  stroke 
oar  of  the  Cambridge  boat  were  going  out  as  missionaries." 
When  the  news  reached  Edinburgh  it  deeply  stirred  a  group 
of  medical  students  who  for  some  months  had  been  burdened 
about  the  indifference  to  spiritual  things  in  the  university, 
especially  among  their  fellow-medicals.  A  series  of  remark- 
able meetings  had  just  been  held  at  Oxford  and  Cambridge 
in  which  Mr.  Taylor  and  several  of  the  outgoing  party  had 
won  the  sjnnpathies  of  the  undergraduates  for  foreign 
missions  as  never  before.  But  they  were  too  much  occupied 
with  preparations  for  an  early  departure  to  be  able  to  follow 
up  even  such  promising  openings.  Then  it  was  that,  provi- 
dentially, Reginald  RadcHffe  came  upon  the  scene — that 
fervent  evangelist  whose  parish  was  the  world  and  whose 
aim  nothing  less  than  that  the  Gospel  should  be  preached 
"  to  every  creature."  Loving  Scotland  with  a  special  love, 
he  longed  to  bring  the  outgoing  band  into  touch  with  her 
university  life,  and  on  obtaining  Mr.  Taylor's  permission 
wrote  to  Professor  Simpson  to  suggest  that  Studd  and 
Stanley  Smith  should  visit  Edinburgh. ^ 

Coming  just  at  the  time  when  those  medical  students 
were  earnestly  seeking  guidance  as  to  how  to  bring  the  claims 
of  Christ  before  their  fellows,  the  suggestion  was  hailed  with 
thankfulness. 

"  Many  had  heard  of  Stanley  Smith,'*  wrote  Professor 
Charteris,  "  and  to  every  one  who  knew  anjrthing  of  cricket 
the  name  of  Studd  was  familiar.     And  so  the  word  went  round 

»  By  this  time  Messrs.  D.  E.  Hoste  and  Stanley  P.  Smith  (stroke  of 
the  Cambridge  Eight  a  couple  of  years  previously)  and  the  Rev.  W.  W. 
Cassels  of  St.  John's,  Cambridge  (late  curate  of  All  Souls,  South  Lambeth, 
and  now  Bishop  in  Western  China)  had  been  joined  by  Mr.  C.  T.  Studd, 
ex-captain  of  the  Cambridge  Eleven.  A  little  later  Mr.  Montagu 
Beauchamp,  nephew  of  Lord  Radstock,  also  a  university  oar,  and  Messrs. 
C.  P.  and  A.  T.  Polhill,  sons  of  a  late  M.P.  for  Bedford  ("  the  former  an 
officer  in  the  2nd  Dragoon  Guards,  and  the  latter  a  Ridley  Hall  Theological 
student,  and  both  of  them  prominent  Eton  and  Cambridge  cricketers  ") 
made  up  the  party  to  seven — a  strong  team  from  the  university  man's 
point  of  view. 


382         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

our  class  rooms,  '  Let  us  go  and  give  the  athlete  missionaries  a 
welcome  !  ' 

"  The  men  gathered — about  a  thousand,  and  the  two  mis- 
sionaries spoke,  well  supported  by  Mr.  Landale  who  is  home  from 
China,  and  others.  Smith  would  have  made  his  mark  as  an 
orator  anywhere  ;  he  has  unusual  powers  of  thought,  imagination, 
and  utterance,  and  a  colder  man  than  he  would  have  been  roused 
by  the  audience  to  whom  he  was  invited  to  tell  how  the  '  love 
of  Christ  constrained '  him  to  give  up  all  home  prospects  and 
go  to  far-off  China  to  preach  the  Gospel.  Studd  has  not  the 
gifts  of  an  orator,  but  he  never  went  more  straight  at  the  mark 
in  the  cricket-field  than  he  did  in  his  manly  narrative  of  the 
way  God  had  led  him  for  years,  from  stage  to  stage  of  the 
Christian  life,  until  he  was  ready  to  forsake  father  and  mother, 
home  and  friends,  because  of  his  love  for  his  Redeemer. 

"  The  students  were  spellbound.  Those  two  speakers  were 
so  manly — types  indeed  of  handsome,  healthy  manhood — were 
so  happy,  spoke  in  such  unconventional  style,  that  when  they 
had  done  hundreds  of  students,  who  had  httle  thought  of  such 
a  thing  when  they  came  into  the  hall,  crowded  round  them  to 
grasp  their  hand,  followed  them  to  the  train  by  which  they 
were  going  right  off  to  London,  and  were  on  the  platform  saying 
*'  God  speed  you,"  when  the  train  steamed  away." 

But  that  was  not  to  be  the  end  of  it.  During  their 
campaign  with  Mr.  Radcliffe  the  latter  had  seen  the  possi- 
bilities of  such  work,  and  had  unfolded  a  plan  for  further 
meetings.  Invitations  had  been  urgent  to  return  to  Scot- 
land, especially  from  Edinburgh  students,  and  in  spite  of 
the  early  date  fixed  for  the  sailing  of  the  party  it  was  hoped 
that  Mr.  Taylor  might  accompany  them. 

*'  Could  you  come,"  wrote  Mr.  Stanley  Smith  to  the  beloved 
leader  of  the  Mission  ;   "  and  if  not,  may  we  go  ?  " 

By  this  time  it  was  becoming  clear  to  Mr.  Taylor  that 
the  hand  of  God  was  in  the  movement,  and  greatly  must  he 
have  longed  to  make  the  most  of  his  share  in  it.  He  had 
been  very  conscious  of  the  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit  with 
those  of  the  seven  who  had  helped  him  in  his  meetings,  and 
had  seen  the  influence  of  their  joyous  consecration  not  over 
students  only,  but  over  leaders  of  Christian  life  and  thought.^ 

^  "  The  visit  of  Messrs.  Stanley  Smith  and  Studd  to  Melbourne  Hall 
(Leicester)  will  always  mark  an  epoch  in  my  own  life,"  wrote  the  Rev. 


ABOVE  ALL  THAT  YE  ASK  383 

The  whole  thing  was  beginning  to  stand  out  before  him  : 
the  uniqueness  of  the  opportunity  and  of  the  band  of  fellow- 
workers  who  had  been  given  him  ;  the  evident  purpose  of 
the  Lord  of  the  Harvest  to  use  them  along  lines  that  had 
always  been  his  own  ideal — through  the  deepening  of 
spiritual  life  among  His  people,  to  thrust  out  many  fresh 
labourers  into  His  harvest.  How  his  heart  was  in  it  all ; 
how  he  would  have  rejoiced  to  stay  and  help  !  But,  for 
him,  duty  clearly  pointed  in  another  direction. 

Thus  then  it  was  arranged  :  Mr.  Taylor  going  on  ahead 
to  get  through  important  matters  awaiting  his  attention  in 
Shanghai,  and  Mr.  Radcliffe  undertaking,  with  Mr.  Broom- 
hall  and  others,  the  campaign  that  was  to  be  so  far-reaching 
in  its  results.  One  notable  meeting  Mr.  Taylor  had  at 
Exeter  Hall,  when  all  the  outgoing  party  were  present — a 
meeting  which  in  measure  prepared  him  for  Mr.  Eugene 
Stock's  comment : 

The  influence  of  such  a  band  of  men  going  to  China  was 
irresistible.  No  such  event  had  occurred  before  ;  and  no  event 
of  the  century  had  done  so  much  to  arouse  the  minds  of  Christian 
men  to  the  tremendous  claims  of  the  Field,  and  the  nobihty  of 
the  missionary  vocation.^ 

F.  B.  Meyer.  "  Before  that  time  my  Christian  life  had  been  spasmodic 
and  fitful ;  now  flaming  up  with  enthusiasm,  and  then  pacing  weariedly 
over  leagues  of  grey  ashes  and  cold  cinders.  I  saw  that  these  young  men 
had  something  which  I  had  not,  but  which  was  within  them  a  constant 
source  of  rest  and  strength  and  joy.  And  never  shall  I  forget  a  scene 
at  7  A.M.  in  the  grey  November  morning,  as  dayUght  was  flickering  into 
the  bedroom,  paling  the  guttered  candles,  which  from  a  very  early  hour 
had  been  lighting  up  the  page  of  Scripture,  and  reveahng  the  figures  of 
the  devoted  Bible-students,  who  wore  the  old  cricketing  or  boating  costume 
of  earher  days,  to  render  them  less  sensible  of  the  raw,  damp  climate. 
The  talk  then  held  was  one  of  the  formative  influences  of  my  life." 

^  "  The  gift  of  such  a  band  to  the  China  Inland  Mission — truly  it  was 
a  gift  from  God,"  continued  the  Editorial  Secretary  of  the  C.M.S.,  "  was 
a  just  reward  to  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor  and  his  colleagues  for  the  genuine 
unselfishness  with  which  they  had  always  pleaded  the  cause  of  China  and 
the  world,  and  not  of  their  own  particular  organisation,  and  for  the  deep 
spirituahty  which  had  always  marked  their  meetings.  And  that  spiritu- 
ahty  marked  most  emphatically  the  densely  crowded  meetings  in  different 
places  at  which  these  seven  men  said  farewell.  They  told,  modestly  and 
yet  fearlessly,  of  the  Lord's  goodness  to  them,  and  of  the  joy  of  serving 
Him  ;  and  they  appealed  to  young  men,  not  for  their  Mission,  but  for 
their  Divine  Master.  No  such  missionary  meeting  had  ever  been  known 
as  the  final  gathering  at  Exeter  Hall  on  February  4,  1885.     We  have  be- 


384         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

But  it  was  not  in  public  gatherings  that  these  men  were 
knit  to  their  leader  and  the  Mission  with  which  they  had 
cast  in  their  lot.  It  was  behind  the  scenes  in  quiet  hours 
the  work  was  done,  and  chiefly  in  times  of  prayer  at  Pyrland 
Road,  as  on  the  last  day  of  1884.  There  was  no  disguising 
on  these  occasions  the  poverty,  as  far  as  material  resources 
were  concerned,  of  the  Mission  that  had  closed  its  latest 
balance  sheet  with  only  ten  pounds  in  hand — '*  ten  pounds 
and  all  the  promises  of  God/'  But  how  small  a  matter  this 
seemed  with  the  presence  of  the  Lord  Himself  so  consciously 
felt !  It  never  had  been  Mr.  Taylor's  way  to  minimise  the 
trials  that  awaited  young  workers  in  China,  especially  if 
they  desired  to  identify  themselves  with  the  people  along 
the  lines  of  the  C.I.M.  Speaking  of  himself  in  the  third 
person,  one  of  the  Cambridge  Party  recalled : 

Mr.  Taylor  was  careful  to  set  before  him  the  real  character 
of  life  aiid  work  in  inland  China,  telling  him  quite  plainly  that 
it  involved  isolation,  privation,  exposure  to  the  hostility  of  the 
people  and  the  contempt  of  his  own  countrymen,  and  also  many 
trials  of  faith,  patience  and  constancy. 

"  Mr.  Hoste  went  away  deeply  impressed  with  the  character 
of  the  man  with  whom  he  had  been  speaking,"  was  the  young 
officer's  only  comment,  "  and  with  his  heart  more  than  ever 
set  upon  becoming  a  missionary  in  China." 

Very  memorable  to  such  a  spirit  was  that  New  Year's 
Eve  spent  in  prayer  and  fasting.  When  Mr.  Taylor  left 
London  three  weeks  later,  sorneof  the  party  were  again  in 
Scotland,  rejoicing  to  tell  of  all  the  wealth  they  were  finding 
in  deeper  fellowship  with  Christ,  which  so  far  outweighed 
anything  of  worldly  advantage  they  were  laying  down. 
And  in  a  blinding  snow-storm,  as  he  crossed  France  alone, 
the  traveller's  heart  was  full  of  praise  for  news  received  only 
that  morning  from  the  northern  capital : 

"  Two  thousand  students  last  night — wonderful  times ! 
It  is  the  Lord." 

come  familiar  since  then  with  meetings  more  or  less  of  the  same  type, 
but  it  was  a  new  thing  then.  In  many  ways  the  Church  Missionary  Society 
owes  a  deep  debt  of  gratitude  to  the  China  Inland  Mission  and  the  Cam- 
bridge Seven.  The  Lord  Himself  spoke  through  them  ;  and  it  was  by 
His  grace  that  the  Society  had  ears  to  hear."  (From  The  History  of  the 
Church  Missionary  Society,  vol.  iii.  p.  285.) 


CHAPTER  XXVII 

THE   PRICE   OF    PROGRESS 
1885-1886.     Aet.  53-54. 

Who,  that  one  moment  has  the  least  descried  Him. 

Dimly  and  faintly,  hidden  and  afar, 
Doth  not  despise  all  excellence  beside  Him, 

Pleasures  and  powers  that  are  not  and  that  are. 

Aye,  amid  all  men  bear  himself  thereafter 

Smit  with  a  solemn  and  a  sweet  surprise. 
Dumb  to  their  scorn  and  turning  on  their  laughter 

Only  the  dominance  of  earnest  eyes. 

Yes,  thro'  life,  death,  thro'  sorrow  and  thro'  sinning, 
He  shall  suffice  me,  for  He  hath  sufficed  : 

Christ  is  the  end,  for  Christ  was  the  beginning, 
Christ  the  beginning,  for  the  end  is  Christ. 

Myers. 

How  little  the  Church  yet  knows  of  her  glorious  Lord,  that 
missionary  work  can  ever  be  counted  sacrifice  !  To  be  His 
ambassadors,  His  witnesses,  His  fellow-workers,  to  share  in 
some  measure  *'  the  fellowship  of  His  sufferings,"  that  we 
may  "  know  Him  and  the  power  of  His  resurrection  "  and 
in  some  deeper,  fuller  sense  "  win  Christ  " — how  can  it  but 
be  gain,  infinite  and  eternal  ? 

Long  had  this  been  the  attitude  of  Mr.  Taylor's  heart, 
and  that  it  was  so  still  comes  out  very  simply  in  a  letter 
written  as  he  was  crossing  France.  He  had  been  making 
the  most  of  an  empty  side  of  a  carriage  when,  at  Lyons, 
additional  travellers  entered  in  the  middle  of  the  night. 
He  judged  them  to  be  a  newly  married  couple,  on  account 

385  2C 


386         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

of  their  evident  youth,  and  at  first  felt  disposed  to  regret 
the  loss  of  space  to  lie  down,  for  he  was  very  weary. 

"  But  they  taught  me  a  lesson,  I  trust,"  he  wrote  to  the 
loved  one  left  behind.  "  The  French  lady  seemed  simply  to 
adore  her  husband.  There  was  something  about  their  ways 
one  could  not  describe,  which  told  how  fully  they  were  all  in 
all  to  each  other.  Her  eyes  followed  his  every  movement.  If 
she  touched  him,  there  was  something  indescribable  in  the 
touch.  They  were  oblivious  of  every  one  else.  She  wished  for 
something  at  a  station  :  he  almost  flew  to  procure  it — and  what 
thanks  her  eyes  gave  him  I  Some  smiled.  But  I  said  to  myself, 
'  How  infinitely  more  worthy  is  my  Lord  of  adoring  love 
than  this  young  husband  can  be  1  How  much  more  He  loves 
me  !  He  has  died  for  me  ;  He  fives  for  me  ;  He  delights  to 
give  me  the  desires  of  my  heart.  Do  I  love  Him  so  ?  Cannot 
I  take  my  eyes  off  Him  ?  Is  He  reaUy  aU  in  ah  to  me  V  Am  I 
obfivious  of  aU  others,  because  of  His  presence  and  love  ?  Is  it 
joy  to  leave  aU — you,  my  precious  one,  included — to  please  Him  ? 

"  Oh,  Darling  !  that  love  did  me  good,  and  does  still.  The 
pain  of  parting  is  very  real,  but  Jesus  is  very  real,  too.  He 
will  be  a  satisfying  portion  to  you  during  my  absence,  and  to 
me  in  your  absence.  Let  us  be  thankful  that  our  honeymoon 
has  lasted  so  many  years,  and  will  last.  But  most  of  aU,  let 
us  seek  to  be  more  to  our  Lord,  to  find  more  in  our  Lord,  as 
time  passes  on.     We  shall  never  be  alone,  shall  we  ?  '* 

Nearing  Shanghai  some  weeks  later,  the  sense  of  respon- 
sibility in  connection  with  all  that  lay  before  him  was  very 
great.  An  absence  of  two  years,  at  a  time  of  unparalleled 
growth  and  extension  in  the  Mission,  meant  that  many 
problems  would  await  him  for  which  he  had  neither  wisdom 
nor  strength. 

*'  Soon  we  shall  be  in  the  midst  of  the  battle,"  he  wrote 
from  the  China  Sea  (Feb.  28,  '85)  ;  "but  the  Lord  our  God  in  the 
midst  of  us  is  mighty,  so  we  will  trust  and  not  be  afraid.  '  He 
will  save  ' :  He  will  save  aU  the  time,  in  everything." 

Meanwhile,  in  Edinburgh,  the  movement  begun  among 
the  students  was  not  only  growing  in  popularity,  it  was 
taking  on  a  deeper  tone. 

"  Students,  like  other  young  men,"  wrote  Dr.  Moxey  of  this 
second  visit,  "  are  apt  to  regard  professedly  religious  people  of 


THE  PRICE  OF  PROGRESS  387 

their  own  age  as  wanting  in  manliness,  unfit  for  the  river  or 
cricket-field,  and  only  good  for  psalm-singing  and  pulling  a  long 
face.  But  the  big,  muscular  hands  and  long  arms  of  the  ex- 
captain  of  the  Cambridge  Eight,  stretched  out  in  entreaty, 
while  he  eloquently  told  out  the  old  story  of  Redeeming  Love, 
capsized  their  theory  ;  and  when  Mr.  C.  T.  Studd,  whose  name 
is  to  them  familiar  as  perhaps  the  greatest  gentleman  bowler 
in  England,  supplemented  his  brother  athlete's  words  by  quiet 
but  intense  and  burning  utterances  of  personal  testimony  to 
the  love  and  power  of  a  personal  Saviour,  opposition  and  criticism 
were  alike  disarmed,  and  professors  and  students  together  were 
seen  in  tears,  to  be  followed  in  the  after-meeting  by  the  glorious 
sight  of  professors  dealing  with  students,  and  students  with  one 
another." 

"  We  had  a  wonderful  time,"  wrote  one  of  the  undergraduates. 
"  I  should  think  three-fourths  of  that  meeting  waited  to  an  after- 
meeting,  and  the  great  hall  was  covered  with  men  anxious  about 
their  souls.  Christians  were  stimulated  all  round,  and  many 
I  beUeve  came  that  night  to  an  out-and-out  decision  for  God. 

"  The  following  evening  we  met  again  in  the  Free  Assembly 
Hall,  and  again  had  times  of  great  blessing.  To  the  men  whom 
God  had  so  signally  used  we  said,  '  Can  you  not  possibly  come 
back  ?  ' 

"  They  said,  '  Well,  we  are  going  to  the  West.  We  are  to 
pass  this  way  again  on  Friday,  and  if  you  can  arrange  it  shall 
be  glad  to  meet  your  students  again,  then.' 

"  We  met  in  the  same  hall,  and  I  think  that  I  never  saw  a 
meeting  like  that.  We  had  obtained  a  special  lease  of  the  hall. 
We  ought  to  have  left  by  half-past  ten,  but  got  permission  to 
remam  till  midnight  ;  and  up  to  that  hour  the  floor  was  covered 
with  men  anxiously  inquiring,  *  What  must  I  do  to  be  saved  ?  '  "  1 

The  precious  days  of  January  (1885)  were  hastening  on, 
and  it  yet  remained  to  pay  farewell  visits  to  Oxford  and 
Cambridge. 

"  I  want  to  recommend  to  you  my  Master,"  said  Studd  in 
his  last  address  to  the  men  of  his  own  university.  "  I  have  had 
many  ways  of  pleasure  in  my  time,  and  have  tasted  most  of  the 
dehghts  this  world  can  give ;  but  I  can  tell  you  that  these 
pleasures  are  as  nothing  compared  with  my  present  joy.     I 

^  "  We  were  then  unable  to  stop,"  continued  the  same  writer.  "  Pro- 
fessor Drummond  took  up  the  meetings.  Every  Sunday  evening  the 
Oddfellows'  Hall  was  crowded  with  students,  and  each  address  was  followed 
by  an  after-meeting.  Many  students  during  that  never-to-be-forgotten 
winter  session  (1884-1885)  were  converted." 


388         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

had  formerly  as  much  love  for  cricket  as  any  man  could  have  ; 
but  when  the  Lord  Jesus  came  into  my  heart  I  found  that  I 
had  something  infinitely  better.  My  heart  Wcis  no  longer  set 
on  the  game  :  I  wanted  to  win  souls,  to  serve  and  please  Him." 
"  What  a  priceless  testimony  is  this  to  spiritual  realities," 
commented  the  Master  of  Pembroke.'^  "  What  a  victory  is 
scored  to  faith  !  for  however  eccentric  his  conduct  may  be 
thought,  plainly  he  has  demonstrated  that  there  are  unseen 
powers  that  sway  a  man's  heart  much  more  forcibly  than  any 
motives  of  the  world.  We  who  can  recollect  the  strong  man, 
how  great  he  would  rise  up  with  his  bat,  with  what  force  he 
would  hurl  his  ball,  how  grand  an  ovation  he  would  receive  as 
captain  of  the  victorious  eleven  after  some  international  contest, 
who  know  how  such  a  man  is  sought  out,  caressed  and  idohsed, 
can  in  some  measure  estimate  his  sacrifice,  or  rather  the  new 
force  that  has  laid  hold  of  him.  For  he  was  not  leading  a  sinful 
life,  but  simply  says  that  a  stronger  fascination  has  come  over 
him,  and  he  submits  Uke  a  captive  to  it,  with  his  eyes  open, 
rationally  and  willingly,  and  in  the  new  service  finds  a  satisfac- 
tion far  excelling  the  old." 

It  was  this  hidden  pow^er,  this  spring  of  inward  joy  that 
was  so  attractive,  and  multitudes  everjrvvhere  wanted  to  see 
and  hear  for  themselves.  From  Exeter  Hall  in  London 
(headquarters  of  the  Y.M.C.A.)  came  an  urgent  request  for 
one  last  meeting,  and  the  departure  of  the  missionaries  was 
delayed  another  day  to  make  it  possible.  Fresh  from  the 
moving  scenes  at  Oxford  and  Cambridge  the  whole  party 
came  up  to  London  for  this  last  farewell,  and  the  great  hall 
was  densely  crowded. 

"  It  was  a  sight  to  stir  the  blood,"  wrote  a  correspondent  of 

j  The  Nonconformist,  "  and  a  striking  testimony  to  the  power  of 

/  the   uplifted   Christ   to   draw   to   Himself   not   the   weak,   the 

/     emotional,  the  iUiterate  only,  but  all  that  is  noblest  in  strength 

\     and  finest  in  culture." 

"  I  could  not  but  ponder,"  said  a  thoughtful  observer  in  The 
Record,  "  what  were  the  main  reasons  for  the  might  of  a  move- 
ment which  has  drawn  to  it  man  after  man  of  a  very  noble  type, 
and  of  just  the  qualities  most  influential  in  the  young  Cambridge 
world.  My  main  reasons,  after  all,  reduced  themselves  to  one 
— ^the  uncompromising  spirituality  and  unworldliness  of  the 
programme  of  the  Mission,  responded  to  by  hearts  which  have 

»  The  Rev.  C.  E.  Searle,  D.D. 


THE  PRICE  OF  PROGRESS  389 

truly  laid  all  at  the  Lord's  feet,  and  whose  delight  is  in  the  most 
open  confession  of  His  Name  and  its  power  upon  themselves. 
I  venture  to  pronounce  it  inconceivable,  impossible,  that  such 
a  meeting  should  have  been  held  in  connection  with  any  mis- 
sionary enterprise  of  mixed  aims,  or  in  which  such  great  truths 
as  personal  conversion,  present  peace  and  joy  in  beUeving,  the 
present  sanctifying  power  of  the  Spirit,  the  absolute  necessity 
among  the  heathen  of  faith  in  Christ  for  salvation,  and  the  loss 
of  the  soul  as  the  alternative,  were  ignored,  or  treated  with 
hesitation.  Nor  could  such  a  profound  interest  possibly  be 
called  out,  did  the  work  not  demand  of  the  workers  very  real 
and  manifest  self-sacrifice  and  acts  of  faith."  ^ 

All  this  was  a  great  joy  to  Mr.  Taylor  and  those  with  him 
in  China ;  so  also  were  the  meetings  he  had  arranged  for 
the  Cambridge  Band  at  various  ports  on  the  way  out,  and 
others  in  Shanghai,  Peking  and  elsewhere  on  arrival.  To 
get  the  young  men  into  work  studying  the  language  was 
important  however,  so  meetings  were  curtailed,  and  they 

*  Three  months  later  (May  1885)  an  Edinburgh  student  came  up  to 
the  Annual  Meetings  of  the  C.I.M.  in  London  to  tell  of  further  develop- 
ments : 

"  The  story  with  which  I  have  to  deal,"  he  said,  "  is  that  of  a  move- 
ment, perhaps  the  most  wonderful  that  ever  had  place  in  the  history  of 
university  students,  certainly  the  strangest  that  ever  took  place  in  the 
history  of  Scottish  universities.  I  have  to  tell  you  how  our  great  Edinburgh 
University  and  the  aUied  medical  schools,  with  between  three  and  four 
thousand  students,  have  been  shaken  to  their  very  depths  ;  how  the 
work  has  spread  to  all  the  other  universities  of  Scotland  ;  and  how,  already, 
as  the  students  of  these  universities  have  gone  far  and  wide,  the  work  is 
spreading  in  all  its  depth  and  reahty  throughout  the  whole  country,  I 
might  almost  say,  throughout  the  world.  ... 

"  The  present  work  has  been  carried  forward  by  the  very  best  men  in 
our  university.  Some  of  our  best-known  professors  and  assistant  pro- 
fessors .  .  .  have  been  actively  engaged  in  it.  And  among  the  students 
it  has  not  been  any  one  set,  but  our  best  intellects,  our  medalUsts,  our 
scholars,  our  bursars,  our  prize-men — these  have  been  among  the  most 
prominent  in  carrying  forward  this  work.  As  to  results,  as  I  said  before, 
we  cannot  estimate  them.  I  believe  that  the  number  of  conversions, 
even  in  our  own  university,  is  to  be  counted  by  hundreds  and  not  by 
scores.  And,  as  one  result,  scores  of  men  have  given  themselves  to  mis- 
sionary work,  and  have  entered  on  medical  courses  in  preparation  for  it. 
...  I  have  just  to  ask  you  to  praise  God  with  me,  and  with  Edinburgh 
University,  for  sending  among  us  those  two  missionaries-elect  of  the 
China  Inland  Mission,  Studd  and  Stanley  Smith." 

In  the  following  year,  a  similar  work  of  grace  commenced  among 
university  men  in  North  America,  from  which  developed  the  Student 
Volunteer  Movement  and  ultimately  the  World's  Student  Christian  Federa- 
tion.    And,  back  of  it  all.  one  remembers  Harold  Schofield's  prayers. 


390         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

were  soon  on  their  way,  in  Chinese  dress,  to  the  interior — 
northward  to  Shan-si  and  westward  to  Han-chung-fu. 

For  himself,  Mr.  Taylor  was  not  expecting  to  be  long 
detained  in  China,  there  being  much  of  importance  to  require 
his  presence  at  home.  He  hoped  to  give  effect,  on  this  sixth 
visit,  to  the  plans  for  organisation  that  had  been  maturing 
in  his  mind,  and  to  see  something  of  the  work  in  the  interior, 
especially  in  the  province  of  Shan-si.  The  time  had  come 
when  superintendents  were  needed  to  afford  help  and 
guidance  to  the  largely  increased  number  of  recruits,  and 
some  one  who  could  be  associated  with  himself  as  Deputy 
Director,  in  view  of  his  necessary  absences  from  the  field. 
A  China  Council  also  was  desirable,  to  assist  the  Director  or 
his  Deputy,  as  the  London  Council  had  long  helped  Mr. 
Taylor  at  home  ;  and  it  was  important  to  establish  training 
centres  for  the  study  of  the  language,  in  which  new  arrivals, 
men  and  women  respectively,  could  have  experienced  help 
in  preparing  for  their  life-w^ork. 

Seen  in  the  light  of  subsequent  developments  it  was  to 
be  expected  that  the  great  adversary  would  leave  no  stone 
unturned  to  hinder  and  if  possible  frustrate  these  purposes. 
"  Our  wrestling  is  not  against  flesh  and  blood,  but  against 
the  principalities,  against  the  powers,  against  the  world- 
rulers  of  this  darkness,  against  the  spiritual  hosts  of  wicked- 
ness in  the  heavenly  places."  Wonderful  things  had  been 
happening  in  connection  with  the  Mission,  wonderful  things 
were  yet  to  happen,  and  the  enemy  seems  to  have  been 
prepared  at  every  point  to  oppose  and  hinder.  Month  after 
month  went  by,  and  at  the  close  of  1885,  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  : 

A  year  ago  I  thought  to  be  back  in  England  ere  December 
was  out,  but  I  seem  to  be  as  far  from  it  as  on  landing.  Not 
that  nothing  has  been  done  !  A  great  deal,  thank  God,  has 
been  accomplished,  and  not  a  little  suffered — but  He  knows  all 
about  that.  Such  a  hand-to-hand  conflict  with  the  powers  of 
darkness  as  I  have  seldom  known  has  been  no  small  part  of 
the  work  of  the  year  ;  but  "  hitherto  the  Lord  hath  helped  us  "  : 
and  He  will  perfect  that  which  concerns  us,  whatever  that  per- 
fecting may  mean  or  involve. 

"  Borne  on  a  great  wave  of  fervent  enthusiasm,"  as  Mr. 


THE  PRICE  OF  PROGRESS  391 

Eugene  Stock  expressed  it,  the  work  had  been  swept  into 
a  new  place  in  the  sympathy  and  confidence  of  the  Lord's 
people.  '*  The  Mission  has  become  popular,"  Mr.  Broomhall 
was  writing  from  England  ;  but  out  in  China,  Hudson 
Taylor  had  to  fathom  the  other  side  of  that  experience. 

'*  There  must  be  a  good  deal  more  effected  by  pain,"  he 
wrote  to  Mrs.  Taylor  a  few  weeks  after  landing,  "  than  we  know 
of  at  present.  It  seems  essentially  connected  with  fruitfulness, 
natural  and  spiritual." 

To  no  one  else  could  he  unburden  his  heart ;  and  as  the 
separation  lengthened,  many  were  the  revealing  passages  in 
his  letters. 

Oct.  15  :  Great  trial,  great  blessing  are  very  present.  My 
only  rest  is  in  God.  But  He  is  more  than  ever  aU  to  me,  and 
I  am  resting  in  Him. 

Nov.  I  :  I  have  it  much  impressed  on  my  heart  to  plead 
mightily  for  a  special  outpouring  of  the  Holy  Spirit  on  those 
who  cause  most  concern.  This  is  what  they  need  ;  this  would 
put  aU  right,  and  nothing  else  will.  So  long  as  the  motto 
practically  is  "  Not  Christ  but  I,"  our  best  organisation  will 
never  give  the  victory  over  the  world,  the  flesh  and  the  devil. 
The  motto  must  be  changed. 

Nov.  9  :  "  It  is  three  weeks  to-day  since  I  was  out  of  doors," 
he  continued  after  an  illness  due  to  overstrain.  "  Satan  is  so 
busy  just  now  !  there  is  trial  on  every  hand  "...  mentioning 
no  fewer  than  seven  causes  of  special  anxiety.  "  In  the  midst 
of  it  aU  God  is  revealing  Himself.  The  work  is  wonderfully 
advancing,  and  those  who  will  have  it  are  getting  showers  of 
blessing." 

Nov.  II  :  I  am  sure  you  will  pray  hard  for  us.  The  conflict 
is  heavy  indeed.  Satan  harasses  on  aU  sides  ;  but  the  Lord 
reigneth,  and  shaU  triumph  gloriously.  ...  It  is  easy  enough 
to  fancy  we  are  weaned  children  when  we  don't  mind  much  the 
thing  we  miss  ;  but  at  other  times  and  about  other  things  we  are 
less  in  danger  of  making  this  mistake. 

Nov.  14  :  I  believe  we  are  on  the  eve  of  great  blessing, 
perhaps  of  great  trial  too.  The  Lord  our  God  in  the  midst  of 
us  is  "  mighty  to  save  "  ;  let  us  trust  Him.  Flesh  and  heart 
often  fail :  let  them  fail !  He  faileth  not.  Pray  very  much, 
pray  constantly,  for  Satan  rages  against  us.  But  God  uses 
this  most  diligent  though  unwitting  of  His  servants  to  refine  and 
purify  His  people  and  to  bring  in  the  greatest  blessings — witness 
th^  Cross. 


392         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

The  winter  months  were  the  most  painful,  and  Mr. 
Taylor  was  anticipating  what  it  would  mean  to  be  without 
the  comfort  even  of  letters  on  the  long  journey  he  expected 
to  take  after  the  Chinese  New  Year. 

"  I  am  wondering  how  you  will  bear  the  three  months' 
fasting  from  letters  while  I  am  inland,"  he  wrote  in  January 
1886.  "  I  shall  feel  it  dreadfully,  but  it  has  to  be  gone  through. 
The  Lord  help  and  comfort  you.  .  .  .  There  is  much  to  distress. 
Your  absence  is  a  great  and  ever-present  trial,  and  there  is  all 
the  ordinary  and  extraordinary  conflict.  But  the  encourage- 
ments are  also  wonderful — no  other  word  approaches  the  truth 
— and  half  of  them  cannot  be  told  in  writing.  No  one  dreams 
of  the  mighty  work  going  on  in  connection  with  our  Mission. 
Other  Missions  too,  doubtless,  are  being  greatly  used.  I  look 
for  a  wonderful  year. 

*'  Sometimes  I  feel  almost  crushed  by  one  thing  and  another 
.  .  .  but  the  wonderful  progress,  the  wonderful  love  of  most  of 
our  people,  the  effect  that  is  being  produced  at  home  and  abroad 
is  worth  the  crushing  of  a  score  of  us.  And  if  you  and  I  be  the 
sacrifices  (among  others)  shall  we  regret  it — I  do  not  say  com- 
plain ?  Nay  more,  shall  we  not  be  willing,  glad,  eager  to  win 
at  any  cost  (and  God  only  knows  how  great  it  is)  such  real,  abid- 
ing blessings  ?  " 

And  a  couple  of  months  later  (March  10) ,  when  once  again 
his  plans  had  all  been  broken  up  : 

I  do  so  comfort  myself  with  that  hymn  : 

What  grace,  O  Lord,  and  beauty  shone 

Around  Thy  steps  below  ! 
What  patient  love  was  seen  in  all 

Thy  Hfe  and  death  of  woe  1 

Thy  foes  might  hate,  despise,  revile, 

Thy  friends  unfaithful  prove  ; 
Unwearied  in  forgiveness  still, 

Thy  heart  could  only  love. 

Ch  give  us  hearts  to  love  like  Thee, 

Like  Thee,  O  Lord,  to  grieve 
Far  more  for  others'  sins  than  all 

The  wrongs  that  we  receive. 

Darling,  we  must  not  pick  our  crosses,  nor  be  dissatisfied 
WLih.  the  training  and  discipline.     Soon  it  wdll  all  be  past  and  our 


THE  PRICE  OF  PROGRESS  393 

separations  ovei  for  ever.     We  cannot  expect  lightly  to  assault 
Satan's  domain  ;   if  we  do,  we  shall  be  corrected. 

As  to  the  progress  that  was  being  made,  it  is  difficult  now 
that  the  organisation  of  the  Mission  is  so  complete  to  reahse 
what  it  meant  to  work  it  all  out,  when  men  were  only  gradu- 
ally growing  in  fitness  for  various  posts,  and  any  delegation 
of  Mr.  Taylor's  authority  was  apt  to  be  regarded  with 
misgivings  if  not  opposed  through  misunderstanding.  The 
family  feeling  in  the  Mission  had  been  very  precious  to  its 
early  workers,  who  were  accustomed  to  dealing  with  Mr. 
Taylor  direct  about  every  matter  in  which  advice  and  help 
were  needed.  Much  more  of  difficulty  lay  in  the  way  of 
associating  others  with  himself  in  these  responsibilities  than 
even  he  anticipated ;  but  the  appointment  of  Superin- 
tendents for  a  number  of  provinces,  arrangements  for 
receiving  new  arrivals  in  suitable  training  homes  where  help 
could  be  given  them  with  the  language,  and  the  better 
ordering  of  business  and  financial  matters  in  Shanghai  w^re 
part  of  the  outcome  of  his  labours  in  1885.^ 

Twice  had  serious  illness  called  him  to  Yang-chow  during 
the  year,  twice  had  a  life  of  incalculable  value  to  the  Mission 
hung  in  the  balance.  In  answer  to  prayer.  Miss  Murray 
had  been  raised  up,  and  the  plan  Mr.  Taylor  unfolded  even 
when  it  seemed  that  she  might  never  work  again  had  been 
brought  to  fruition. 

"  Lord,  I  am  so  weak  and  ill,"  was  all  she  could  say  at 
first,  "  why  does  Mr.  Taylor  speak  of  these  things  now  ?  " 

But  the  long  convalescence  was  brightened  by  a  sense 
of  call  to  much-needed  service  ;  and  the  Mother  of  the 
women's  training  home — the  heart  that  has  poured  itself 

^  As  early  as  1870,  Mr.  Taylor  had  sought  to  develop  helpers  upon 
whom  he  might  devolve  responsibiHty  in  the  supervision  of  the  work  ; 
but  as  he  wrote  to  Mr.  McCarthy  at  that  time,  "  such  a  position  has  to 
be  gained,  and  the  ability  is  only  in  and  from  the  Lord." 

A  year  later  he  wrote  again  (Jan.  18,  1871)  :  "  I  wish  you  to  feel 
responsible  before  the  Lord  for  seeking  to  help  the  brethren  in  all  these 
stations.  Really  help  them  ;  really  feel  responsibiHty  about  them  ;  really 
pray  much  for  them,  and  as  far  as  possible  with  them.  Feel  and  evince  a 
deep  interest  in  all  their  out-stations  and  work  generally.  And  above  all, 
do  not  let  them  dream  you  are  taking  a  higher  place  than  their  own  : 
leave  God  to  show  that  in  due  time.  You  are  really  their  head  as  you 
become  their  servant  and  helper.'" 


394         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

out  ever  since  in  love  and  blessing  reaching  to  every  part 
of  the  Mission — came  out  of  that  illness  ready  for  the 
appointed  task. 

At  An-king  also,  steps  had  been  taken  to  improve  and 
consolidate  the  work,  that  it  might  become  a  helpful  training 
centre  for  young  men  during  their  first  months  in  China. 
In  Mr.  W.  Cooper,  the  wise  and  prayerful  leader  was  recog- 
nised for  the  post  of  Superintendent  of  the  province  and 
Pastor  of  the  An-king  church,  while  in  Mr.  Bailer,  shortly 
afterwards  associated  with  him,  the  students  had  from  the 
first  an  ideal  teacher  and  friend.^ 

The  older  work  in  the  province  of  Che-kiang  was  next 
organised,  Mr.  Meadows  (the  senior  member  of  the  Mission) 
being  appointed  Superintendent,  with  Mr.  Williamson  of 
the  Lammermuir  party  as  his  helper.  But  it  was  not  until 
the  close  of  the  year  that  Mr.  Taylor  saw  with  thankfulness 
who  was  to  be  his  own  Deputy.  With  an  exceptional  record 
of  varied  and  useful  service  behind  him,  Mr.  Stevenson  had 
returned  to  China,  landing  on  Christmas  Eve  after  an  absence 
of  ten  and  a  half  years.  All  that  time,  in  Burma  and  else- 
where, he  had  often  longed  to  be  at  work  again  in  his  old 
sphere.  But  the  Guiding  Hand  had  been  preparing  him 
for  wider  usefulness  ;  and  so  real  a  blessing  had  come  to 
him,  spiritually,  that  he  was  ready  to  be  a  helper  of  many.^ 

"  The  Rev.  J.  W.  Stevenson  has,  I  am  thankful  to  say, 
accepted  the  position  of  Director's  Deputy,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote 
in  March  (1886)  to  the  members  of  the  Mission.  "  He  will 
assist,  D.V.,  by  visiting  for  me  many  places  I  cannot  reach; 
will  represent  me  in  my  absence  from  China,  and  deal  with  all 
questions  brought  before  him  by  the  Superintendents  requiring 
immediate  determination. 

"  I  feel  sure  you  will  all  share  with  me  in  thankfulness  to 
God  for  this  appointment,  and  feel  that  it  is  one  of  the  most 

*  A  week  spent  at  that  station  in  November  1885,  when  the  training 
home  was  decided  upon,  enabled  Mr.  Taylor  to  hold  a  conference  in  which 
he  went  over  the  Principles  and  Practice  of  the  C.I.M.  signed  by  the 
members  of  the  Mission  before  leaving  England.  The  addresses  embodied 
in  the  Retrospect — which  has  since,  in  many  editions,  attained  so  wide  a 
circulation — were  originally  given  in  those  meetings,  to  the  refreshment 
of  all  present. 

'  "  Ever  since  the  Keswick  Convention,"  he  had  written  before  leaving 
England,  "  my  cup  has  been  running  over." 


THE  PRICE  OF  PROGRESS  395 

important  steps  in  advance  that  we  have  recently  been  able  to 
make.  I  should  ask  your  special  prayers  for  Mr.  Stevenson, 
that  he  may  be  spiritually  sustained,  and  that  divine  wisdom 
and  grace  may  be  given  him  for  the  weighty  responsibiHties  of 
his  post ;  and  also  that  you  wiU  remember  each  of  the  Super- 
intendents in  your  prayers,  that  they  may  be  blessed,  and  helped 
in  the  discharge  of  their  duties.     Without  full  spiritual  power, 

.na-experience    or    ability    will    avail    for   the    important    and 

jnomentous  work  they  have  undertaken.'^ 

One  thing  that  had  tried  Mr.  Taylor  a  good  deal  all 
through  1885  had  been  the  frustration,  again  and  again,  of 
his  purpose  to  visit  the  northern  provinces.  Reasons  ol 
importance  seemed  to  require  his  presence  in  Shan-si  without 
delay,  yet  endless  complications  detained  him  at  Shanghai 
or  called  in  other  directions.  More  than  once  he  had  been 
on  the  point  of  starting ;  and  it  was  not  until  the  time 
really  came — twelve  months  and  more  after  it  had  been 
expected — that  he  began  to  see  how  wisely  even  the 
hindrances  had  been  planned.  But  for  Miss  Murray's 
illness  combined  with  other  delays,  he  would  not  have 
taken  a  journey,  for  example,  which  proved  of  great  im- 
portance. Far  up  the  Tsien-tang  river  was  a  station  he 
found  himself  obliged  to  visit,  and  by  crossing  the  watershed 
into  the  neighbouring  province  of  Kiang-si  it  would  take 
little  longer  to  return  by  the  Po-yang  Lake  than  the  other 
way.     Both  the  Tsien-tang  and  the  Kwang-sin  rivers  were 

*  Shortly  afterwards  Mr.  J.  F.  Broumton,  prevented  by  unavoidable 
circumstances  from  returning  to  his  former  sphere  in  Kwei-chow,  con- 
sented to  take  up  the  account-keeping  and  statistics  of  the  Mission.  "  The 
first  cash-book  I  had  handed  to  me,"  he  recalled,  "  and  the  only  one  in 
use  at  that  time,  was  an  ordinary  threepenny  account  book  [preferred, 
until  then,  for  convenience  in  travelling] — very  different  from  the  large 
ledgers  we  use  now  !  I  took  over  the  accounts  from  Mr.  Taylor  himself, 
and  arranged  with  him  about  carrying  on  the  work  at  Wu-chang  rather 
than  in  Shanghai.  It  was  midnight  on  the  ist  of  May  (1886)  before  the 
transfer  was  made  and  we  set  off  for  the  steamer,  kverything  had  to 
be  balanced  up  to  the  cent.  Mr.  Taylor  was  very  particular  about 
details."  Five  and  a  half  years  at  Wu-chang,  followed  by  eleven  years 
in  Shanghai  as  Treasurer,  so  demonstrated  Mr.  Broumton's  ability  and 
devotion  to  his  arduous  task  that  more  than  once  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  of  him 
with  thankfulness  as  second  to  none  in  his  value  to  the  Mission. 

Mr.  J.  E.  Card  well  in  the  business  department  and  Miss  Mary  Black 
in  charge  of  the  Mission-house  (Yuen-ming-yuen  Buildings)  were  also 
much  associated  with  Mr.  Taylor  at  this  time. 


396         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

of  exceptional  beauty  at  that  season,  and  hoping  that  the 
complete  change  of  boat-Ufe  would  help  to  re-establish  Miss 
Murray's  health,  he  arranged  for  several  of  the  Yang-chow 
party  to  accompany  him. 

Thus,  then,  the  months  of  May  and  June  (1886)  brought 
to  that  long-waiting  district  the  loving  hearts  and  earnest, 
prayerful  lives  that  were  to  become  its  channels  of  divine 
blessing.  Six  years  had  passed  since  Mr.  Taylor  on  his 
previous  visit  had  met  the  converts  gathered  in  through  the 
labours  of  Captain  Yii  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Yii-shan. 
The  little  out-stations  he  had  visited  then  among  the  hills 
and  down  the  river  were  out-stations  still,  and  had  rarely 
seen  even  a  passing  missionary.  But  one  great  difference 
he  noticed  that  was  suggestive.  For  a  young  worker,  a 
girl  of  only  twenty,  had  recently  come  over  from  what  had 
been  Dr.  Douthwaite's  station,  to  take  a  few  days'  hohdays 
in  that  beautiful  region.  Cared  for  by  the  evangeUst  and 
his  wife,  she  had  spent  a  week  in  the  county  town  of  Chang- 
shan,  sharing  their  home  and  sleeping  in  an  attic  to  which 
she  climbed  by  a  ladder-like  stair.  But  neither  this  nor 
any  other  consideration  could  keep  visitors  away,  and  from 
morning  till  night  her  room  was  besieged  with  women  and 
children.  Warm-hearted  Agnes  Gibson  welcomed  them  all, 
and  spent  her  much-needed  "  holiday  "  in  telling  the  old, 
old  story,  which  had  never  seemed  more  precious. 

The  result  was  that  when  he  came  this  second  time 
Mr.  Taylor  found  a  marked  change  in  the  Sunday  services. 
On  his  previous  visit  the  Christians  had  been  all  and  only 
men  ;  and  so  bitter  was  the  opposition  of  their  women-folk 
that  they  had  even  rented  a  room  for  themselves,  where 
they  might  read  and  pray  undisturbed.  Now,  however, 
the  women  were  as  much  in  evidence  as  the  men,  and  a 
deputation  of  the  latter  waited  upon  him  to  point  the  moral. 

"  We  want  a  missionary  of  our  own,"  they  said,  "  and 
we  want  a  lady.  If  one  visit  of  a  week  could  bring  about 
such  a  change,  what  might  not  be  accomplished  if  we  had  a 
Lady-Teacher  all  the  time  ?  "  ^ 

1  So  much  were  they  in  earnest  that  they  were  ready,  at  their  own 
expense,  to  put  down  a  board  floor  and  make  other  alterations  in  the 


THE  PRICE  OF  PROGRESS  397 

This  was  unanswerable ;  and  it  was  moreover  the  very 
development  Mr.  Taylor  had  long  desired  to  see.  As  he 
travelled  with  the  Misses  Murray  and  their  young  com- 
panions down  the  Kwang-sin  river,  passing  city  after  city  in 
which  no  voice  was  raised  to  tell  of  the  love  of  Jesus  ;  as  he 
saw  the  welcome  with  which  these  gentle  visitors  were 
received,  not  only  by  little  groups  of  Christians  in  lonely 
out-stations  but  by  the  people  everywhere,  he  realised  with 
thankfulness  that  the  time  had  come,  and  that  the  Lord 
had  sent  His  own  messengers.^  It  was  no  easy  work  that 
lay  before  them,  and  no  light  responsibility  he  assumed  in 
consenting  to  let  them  undertake  it.  But  with  their  hearts 
drawn  out  in  prayer  for  place  after  place — cities  like  Ho-kow 
with  its  eighty  thousand,  or  I-yang,  for  which  they  had  a 
memorable  time  of  waiting  upon  God,  he  could  do  no  other. 
Going  forward  therefore  in  faith,  he  arranged  for  the  Misses 
Mackintosh,  Gibson  and  Gray  to  return  with  an  older 
worker,  and  settle  down  among  the  native  Christians, 
making  the  evangelisation  of  this  populous  region  their 
life-work.  And  if  the  step  cost  him  more,  far  more,  than 
his  fellow-travellers  could  realise,  never  was  confidence  in 
God  more  fully  justified  than  by  the  result. ^ 

Mission-house  (toward  which  they  had  put  aside  ten  dollars)  if  only  Mr. 
Taylor  would  send  them  a  teacher  of  their  own.  This  he  could  not  at 
the  moment  arrange  for,  though  ladies  were  appointed  to  the  district 
soon  after.  The  station  in  question  (Chang-shan)  has  now  for  many  years 
been  occupied  by  Miss  Marie  Guex  from  Vevey  and  her  sister  Madame  Just, 
Swiss  members  of  the  Mission. 

^  "  As  to  Miss  Mackintosh,  Miss  Gibson  and  Miss  Gray,"  he  wrote  at 
the  time,  "  they  read  the  Mandarin  Testament  as  fluently  as  EngUsh, 
and  with  few  mistakes.  They  have  been  wonderfully  prospered  both  in 
their  studies  and  work.  It  would  do  you  good  to  see  them  among  a  group 
of  Chinese  women." 

"  Within  the  first  year  of  Women's  Work  on  the  Kwang-sin  river 
forty-two  additional  converts  were  baptized,  and  within  four  years  the 
Yii-shan  Church  alone  had  grown  from  about  thirty  to  one  hundred  and 
eight  members.  At  the  present  time,  in  a  complete  chain  of  ten  central 
stations  and  sixty  out-stations,  there  are  over  two  thousand  two  hundred 
communicants  and  a  large  number  of  enquirers,  pupils  in  schools,  etc., 
cared  for  by  native  leaders — ladies  being  still  the  only  foreign  missionaries. 

As  early  as  1 868,  Mr.  Taylor  had  written  to  Miss  Faulding,  upon  leaving 
Hang-chow  :  "  I  do  not  know  when  I  may  be  able  to  return,  and  it  will 
not  do  for  Church  affairs  to  wait  for  me.  You  cannot  take  a  Pastor's 
place  in  name,  but  you  must  help  (Wang)  Lae-djun  to  act  in  matters  of 
receiving  and  excluding  as  far  as  you  can.     You  can  speak  privately  to 


398         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Returning  to  Shanghai  after  six  weeks'  absence  Mr. 
Taylor  found  himself  faced  by  a  serious  problem.  He 
arrived,  as  it  happened,  on  the  very  last  day  of  an  option 
obtained  upon  a  building  site  in  the  Settlement  that  he 
greatly  desired  to  purchase  for  future  use.  It  was  a  valuable 
plot  of  land,  two  acres  in  extent,  admirably  situated  for  the 
purposes  of  the  Mission,  but  the  price  was  almost  £2500. 
Real  estate  could  not  but  increase  in  value  in  such  a  locahty, 
and  other  offers  were  being  made  for  this  particular  property. 
It  seemed  providential  that  the  last  stages  of  Mr.  Taylor's 
journey  had  been  remarkably  prospered,  so  that  he  had 
reached  Shanghai  earUer  than  could  have  been  expected. 
But  though  he  was  in  time,  he  had  not  money  in  hand  to 
justify  the  purchase.  If  lost,  the  opportunity  would  never 
recur  ;  yet  what  was  to  be  done  ? 

One  thing  at  any  rate  was  possible :  the  whole  matter 
could  be  laid  before  the  Lord  in  definite,  united  prayer.  If 
it  were  of  Him  for  the  Mission  to  have  and  use  that  plot  of 
land,  He  could  bring  it  about,  however  unlikely  it  might 
seem.  The  clear  duty  was  to  refer  the  problem  to  Him,  in 
the  confident  expectation  that  He  would  deal  with  it  in  the 
way  that  was  best.  This  then  they  did  at  the  noon  prayer 
meeting  (June  14)  when  no  outsiders  were  present ;  and 
then  and  there  the  answer  was  given. 

Among  the  party  just  arrived  from  home  was  one  who 
had  been  interested  in  China  through  Mr.  McCarthy's 
meetings  in  Scotland  two  years  previously.     Large  business 

candidates,  and  can  be  present  at  Church  meetings,  and  might  even, 
through  others,  suggest  questions  to  be  asked  of  those  desiring  baptism. 
Then  after  the  meeting  you  can  talk  privately  with  Lae-djun  about 
them,  and  suggest  who  you  think  he  might  receive  next  time  they  meet. 
Thus'he  may  have  the  help  he  needs,  and  there  will  be  nothing  that  any 
one  could  regard  as  unseemly."  Upon  these  lines  the  Kwang-sin  river 
work  has  prospered  by  the  blessing  of  God. 

In  reply  to  a  letter  from  Dr.  Happer  of  Canton.  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  in 
July  1890  :  "  The  principal  reasons  to  my  mind  for  the  safety  and  comfort 
of  Women's  Work  among  the  Chinese  are.  firstly,  that  the  ladies  walk 
with  God.  and  the  '  beauty  of  holiness  '  upon  them  gives  a  dignity  before 
which  lewdness  cannot  Hve  ;  and  secondly,  that  they  are  really  entrusted 
to  the  care  of  the  Lord  Himself  as  their  Escort,  when  commended  to 
Him  for  their  work.  And  He  is  faithful  to  the  trust,  and  does  keep  those 
who  are  committed  to  Him.  We  expect  Him  to  do  it,  and  He  does  not 
disappoint  us," 


THE  PRICE  OF  PROGRESS  399 

responsibilities  rested  upon  him  at  that  time,  and  it  was  not 
until  he  could  see  how  these  were  to  be  cared  for  that  he  felt 
free  to  join  the  Inland  Mission.  Unexpected  delays  in  his 
coming  out  had  coincided  with  delays  in  Mr.  Taylor's 
northern  journey,  so  that  the  two  met  in  Shanghai  on  the 
very  day  in  question,  met  one  might  almost  say  in  that 
prayer-meeting.  The  outcome  was  a  gift  sufficient  to  cover 
the  purchase  of  the  entire  property,  followed  (though  that 
was  a  later  thought)  by  the  still  larger  gift  of  all  the  buildings 
necessary  to  make  it  the  most  complete  and  serviceable  of 
headquarters.  It  was  a  wonderful  provision,  a  wonderful 
answer  to  prayer,  and  a  wonderful  anticipation  of  the 
enlargement  in  the  Mission  that  was  at  hand. 

Two  days  later  Mr.  Taylor  set  out  on  his  northern  journey, 
tidings  from  Mr.  Stevenson  who  had  preceded  him  filling  his 
heart  with  thankfulness. 

"  Praise  for  twenty  years  of  blessing  from  our  gracious 
Father !  "  the  latter  had  written  from  Han-chung-fu  on  the 
anniversary  of  the  sailing  of  the  Lammermuir  (May  26).  "  The 
struggles  and  victories  of  all  these  years  are  part  and  parcel  of 
your  spiritual  fibre.  May  the  third  decade  witness  mighty  out- 
goings of  power  through  the  Mission  that  shall  astonish  faint- 
hearted Christians  and  be  a  source  of  strength  to  all  whole- 
hearted followers  of  our  risen  Saviour. 

"  WeU,  dear  Mr.  Taylor,  I  am  so  overflowing  with  joy  that  I 
can  scarcely  trust  myself  to  write.  He  has  done  great  things 
for  us  up  here — glory  to  His  Name  !  I  do  bless  Him  for  the 
peace  and  joy  that  fill  my  soul,  and  also  for  the  floods  that  have 
come  down  upon  my  beloved  Brothers  and  Sisters  at  present 
in  Han-chung.  We  had  the  full  tide  last  night,  and  found  it 
hard  work  to  break  up  such  a  glory-time  as  had  never  been 
^^dtnessed  in  Han-chung  before.  .  .  .  The  Lord  has  given  us  a 
wonderful  manifestation  of  Himself  these  last  few  days.  But 
we  are  all  satisfied  that  there  are  infinite  stores  yet  at  our  dis- 
posal of  grace  and  power.  ...  I  do  wish  you  could  have  been 
with  us  last  night,  and  have  witnessed  the  deep,  overflowing 
joy,  and  heard  the  glad,  full  surrender  of  all  present  to  Christ. 
I  do  not  think  you  would  have  slept  much  for  delight.  As  long 
as  we  keep  banded  together  in  love  and  consecration,  as  is 
happily  the  case  here,  there  need  be  no  doubt  regarding  our 
success  in  China — none. 

"  The  blessing  at  the  meetings  with  the  native  Christians  .  .  . 


400         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

was  like  a  heavenly  breeze  filling  us  with  great  delight  and  bright 
hope  for  the  future.  Ther^  are  quite  a  number  of  character- 
istic converts  here — some  of  them  with  most  decided  convictions 
and  dauntless  courage  and  enterprise  for  the  Lord.  It  is  truly 
refreshing  to  find,  so  far  in  the  interior,  a  band  of  men  and  women 
so  simple  and  devoted.  ...  I  never  was  so  hopeful  as  I  am  to-day 
with  regard  to  the  Gospel  in  this  land." 


CHAPTER  XXVIII 

DAYS   OF   BLESSING 
1886.     Aet.  54. 

It  had  come  at  last — the  opportunity  so  long  looked  forward 
to  !  P^or  seven  years  Mr.  Taylor  had  been  planning  to  visit 
Shan-si.  Once  he  had  even  set  out,  only  to  be  recalled  by 
claims  at  the  coast.  But  now,  the  better  organisation  of  the 
Mission  permitting  an  absence  of  several  months  from 
Shanghai,  he  hoped  to  strengthen  the  work  not  in  Shan-si 
only  but  in  other  regions  lying  farther  inland.  For  many 
desires  were  on  his  heart  in  connection  with  this  journey. 
Each  station  to  be  visited  had  its  problems,  but  greatest  of 
all  was  the  question  how  to  evangelise  the  vast  population 
to  which  the  missionaries  now  had  access.  To  bring  help 
and  encouragement  to  these  lonely  toilers  was  his  chief 
object,  and  to  confer  with  them  about  the  organisation  of 
the  native  church,  which  in  some  places  was  growing  rapidly. 
It  was  also  his  hope  to  estabUsh  a  Church  of  England  district 
in  the  great  western  province  of  Sze-chwan,  a  matter  which 
had  long  been  under  consideration.  In  the  Rev.  W.  W. 
Cassels  the  Mission  had  for  the  first  time  one  quaUfied  to  take 
the  lead  in  such  an  enterprise,  and  Sze-chwan  with  its  sixty- 
eight  millions  had  as  yet  only  two  centres  in  which  Protestant 
missionaries  were  to  be  found.  Mr.  Cassels  with  others  of 
the  Cambridge  party  had  been  gaining  experience  in  Shan-si, 
where  they  were  eagerly  awaiting  Mr.  Taylor's  coming,  and 
he  was  looking  forward  with  no  less  pleasure  to  seeing  them 
in  the  midst  of  their  work. 

But  first  of  all  the  desired  province  had  to  be  reached, 

401  2  D 


402         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

over  the  vast  plains  of  Chih-li  and  the  mountain  passes 
beyond.  Such  travelHng  was  strange  to  Mr.  Taylor,  hitherto 
accustomed  to  the  endless  water-ways  of  central  and  southern 
China.  Springless  carts  and  northern  roads,  consisting  of 
unmade  tracks  over  sun-baked  or  rain -flooded  country; 
rivers  to  be  crossed  without  bridge  or  ferry,  and  dangerous 
passes  braved  in  litters  swinging  from  the  backs  of  mules 
very  prone  to  stumble  ;  these  by  day,  and  big,  noisy  inns 
at  night,  together  with  northern  speech,  food,  and  manners, 
all  made  large  demands  upon  strength  and  patience.  While 
a  native  junk  on  canal  or  river  may  leave  much  to  be  desired, 
it  is  at  any  rate  a  shelter  you  can  call  your  own  ;  but  to 
exchange  the  weariness  of  a  cart  in  which  you  have  been 
jolted  and  shaken  for  hours  for  a  brick-bed  shared  with 
others  in  a  close  not  to  say  filthy  room,  the  minor  occupants 
of  which  may  be  numbered  by  hundreds  if  not  thousands, 
is  quite  another  matter. 

To  Mr.  Taylor  and  his  companions  the  journey  was 
memorable  for  its  discomforts.  Setting  out  toward  the  end 
of  June,  they  found  the  heat  intense.  Flies  swarmed  every- 
where ;  food  was  difficult  to  obtain  ;  and  at  night  the  younger 
men,  new  to  such  conditions,  were  thoroughly  "played  out," 
and  often  too  tired  to  unpack  their  provisions  or  forage  for 
a  meal.  More  than  once  they  were  roused  after  hours  of 
slumber  by  Mr.  Taylor's  cheery  invitation  to  come  and  share 
his  **  midnight  chicken,"  prepared  as  likely  as  not  with  his 
own  hands. ^ 

Two  weeks  even  of  such  experiences  soon  passed,  how- 
ever, and  great  was  the  contrast  when  the  hospitable  home 
of  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Edwards  was  reached.  There  in  the  capital 
of  the  province  (Tai-yuan-fu)  most  of  the  Shan-si  mission- 
aries were  gathered  to  meet  him,  including  five  of  the 
Cambridge  band,  who  had  now  been  fifteen  months  in  China. 

r  ^  WTio  that  ever  travelled  with  him  could  forget  his  unfailing  care 

and  thought  for  others,  and  the  practical  way  in  which  he  could  turn  his 
hand  to  anything.  Cooking  was  quite  in  his  line.  "  All  the  way  Mr. 
Taylor  prepared  food  for  me,"  recalled  Miss  Murray  of  the  journey  down 
the  Kwang-sin  river,  when  she  was  recovering  from  her  serious  illness. 
"  He  used  to  make  omelets  in  the  back  of  the  boat.  We  would  hear  him 
beating  up  the  eggs.     He  managed  to  get  the  things  somehow  !  " 


DAYS  OF  BLESSING  403 

Had  Mr.  Taylor  been  able,  as  he  had  planned,  to  follow  them 
to  their  sphere  of  labour  a  year  or  so  previously,  he  would 
have  found  them  far  less  ready  for  his  visit  than  they  were 
now.  Then,  only  two  C  J.M.  stations  existed  in  the  province, 
and  in  the  southernmost  of  these  they  were  beginning,  under 
Mr.  Bailer's  tuition,  the  study  of  the  language.  Now,  with 
considerable  fluency  in  Chinese,  they  had  come  up,  each 
from  their  own  centre,  full  of  the  problems  that  press  upon 
young  missionaries  in  the  midst  of  a  large  and  growing  work.^ 

For  the  district  in  which  they  found  themselves  was  that 
of  Mr.  Hsi,  the  ex-Confucian  scholar,  and  his  friends  Chang 
and  Ch'u  of  the  Buddhist  temple  and  little  city  of  Ta-ning 
among  the  Western  Hills.  On  either  side  of  the  Fen  river 
these  men,  full  of  their  first  love  and  zeal,  were  sounding  out 
the  glad  tidings  of  salvation  far  and  wide.  Seventy-two 
baptisms  at  the  Spring  Gatherings,  a  few  months  earlier, 
had  doubled  the  membership  of  the  Ping-yang  church,  and 
made  the  need  for  wise  and  careful  supervision  all  the  more 
apparent.  The  time  had  come  for  setting  apart  some  of  the 
Chinese  leaders  as  deacons  and  elders  in  the  village  gather- 
ings, and  for  recognising  the  God-appointed  ministry  of 
Hsi  and  others  who  were  doing  pastoral  work.  But  before 
going  on  to  the  native  conference  at  which  these  ordinations 
were  to  take  place,  Mr.  Taylor  was  thankful  for  the  quiet 
days  in  the  capital  for  united  waiting  upon  God. 

Days  of  Blessing  ^ — how  truly  the  title  of  the  book  in 
which  a  record  of  these  meetings  has  been  preserved  ex- 
presses what  they  were  in  reality  !  As  one  turns  the  pages, 
the  fragrance  of  the  Lord's  own  presence  cannot  but  be  felt. 
He  never  could  be  hid ;  and  from  first  to  last  it  was  His 
fulness  that  rejoiced  those  waiting  hearts.  Face  to  face 
with  the  overwhelming  need  around  them  and  the  in- 
sufficiency within,  it  was  good  to  remember,  as  Mr.  Taylor 
put  it,  that  it  is  not  a  question  of  the  supply  at  all,  but  of 

^  With  help  from  Mr,  Bailer,  four  new  stations  had  been  opened  (1885- 
1886)  by  Messrs.  Hoste,  Cassels,  Beauchamp  and  Stanley  Smith,  in  the 
following  order — Kii-wo,  Si-chow,  Ta-ning,  and  Hung-tung.  In  the 
extreme  north  of  the  province  Kwei-hwa-ting  and  Ta-tung-fu  had  also 
been  occupied  by  members  of  the  C.I.M. 

"^  Edited  by  Mr.  (now  Sir)  Montagu  Beauchamp. 


404         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

the  Supplier.  "  He  (the  Lord  Jesus)  is  enough  for  Shan-si, 
from  the  Great  Wall  to  Ho-nan.  We  have  a  grander  Saviour 
than  we  realise  !  " 

Upon  the  main  theme  of  the  conference — Christ  our  All- 
Sufficiency  for  personal  life  and  godliness,  as  well  as  for  all 
the  exigencies  of  our  service — we  must  not  dwell.  Never  was 
Mr.  Taylor  more  helpful,  more  at  his  best,  than  in  drawing 
upon  the  treasures  of  the  Word  of  God,^  and  on  his  own 
experience,  for  the  encouragement  of  fellow- workers.  But 
the  subject  is  too  full  for  these  pages.  Some  echoes,  merely, 
of  the  conference  may  be  gathered  from  suggestions  made 
by  Mr.  Taylor  as  to  the  relation  of  the  missionary  to  his  work : 

f  How  can  we  secure  the  development  of  strong,  healthy, 
I  Christlike  native  Christians  unless  we  are  living  strong,  healthy, 
\  Christ  like  lives  ourselves  ?  -~~--^-~ 

Very  few  have  been  long  in  connection  with  missions  with- 
out hearing  a  great  deal  of  the  faults  and  failures  of  the  native 
Christians.  Is  it  not  the  case  that  their  faults  and  failures  are 
very  much  the  reflection  of  our  own  ? 

What  the  spiritual  children  wiU  be  depends  on  what  the 
spiritual  father  is.  .  .  .  The  stream  will  never  rise  higher  than 
its  source,  but  it  will  not  fall  far  short  of  it,  circumstances  per- 
mitting. The  hardness  of  heart  which  is  a  hindrance  to  the 
Gospel  is  not  that  of  the  hearers  ;  it  is  the  hardness  of  this  heart 
of  mine. 

*  Speaking  of  the  Lord  Jesus  as  our  Sufficiency,  Mr.  Taylor  said  : 
"  It  is  well  to  remind  ourselves  of  the  close  connection  that  exists  between 
the  written  Word  of  God  and  the  incarnate  Word  of  God.  V*''e  shall  never 
enjoy  the  one  apart  from  the  other.  It  is  through  God's  own  revelation 
in  the  written  Word  that  we  really  see  and  know  the  Word  Who  was 
made  flesh,  and  Who  rose  from  the  dead.  It  is  through  the  written  Word' 
we  shall  feed  on  Him,  not  through  our  own  speculations.  It  is  important 
that  we  bear  in  mind  that  as  the  Incaxnate  Word  is  a  Divine  Person, 
so  is  the  written  Word  a  Divine  Message  ;  and  as  we  may  rest  all  our 
soul's  interests  on  Jesus  Christ,  so  we  may  rest  all  our  soul's  weight  on 
/  the  Word  of  God.  To  be  unsettled  on  the  question  of  inspiration  is  to 
be  overcome  by  temptation,  and  to  be  unable  to  accomplish  God's  work. 
,  The  connection  between  full  faith  in  God's  will  as  revealed  in  His 
\  written  Word  and  iu  the  Incarnate  Word  is  so  close  and  intimate,  that 
you  can  no  more  separate  them  than  you  can  separate  between  body 
and  soul,  or  soul  and  spirit.  Begin  to  separate  them,  and  to  study 
theology  instead  of  the  Word  of  God  (rather  than  as  a  mere  aid  in  gaining 
a  fuller  grasp  of  it)  and  if  it  does  not  make  you  weaker  rather  than  stronger 
you  will  be  fortunate  indeed.  No  !  Take  God's  Word  as  it  stands,  and 
God's  Christ  as  He  reveals  Himself  to  us,  and  enjoy  all  in  Him  "  {Days 
of  Blessing,  p.  55). 


DAYS  OF  BLESSING  405 

WTben  God's  grace  is  triumphant  in  my  soul,  and  I  can  look 
a  Chinaman  in" the  face  and  say,  "  God  is  able  to  save  jyow,  where 
and  as  you  are,"  that  is  when  I  have  power.     How  else  are  you 
going  to  deal  with  a  man  under  the  craving  for  opium  ?     The   , 
cause  of  want  of  success  is  very  often  that  we  are  only  half    \  J- 
saved  ourselves.     If  we_are_fully  saved  and  confess  it,  we  shall    /."' 
see  results. 

On  the  need  for  contact,  close  ^and  real,  not  only  with 
the  Lord  Himself  but  with  those  whose  good  we  seek,  Mr. 
Taylor  dwelt  with  insistence.  A  very  thin  film  between 
surfaces  will  prevent  their  union  ;  and  so  also  in  things  of 
the  spirit.  There  must  be  heart-contact  with  the  Chinese, 
and  personal  contact  tpp^  he  urged,  if  our  lives  are  to  be 
invested  to  the  utmost  profit.  u  " 

I  do  like  to  look  at  every  practical  question  in  connection 
with  Christ.  The  Incarnation  shows  that,  provided  we  keep 
from  sin,  we  cannot  go  too  far  in  meeting  this  people  and  getting 
to  know  them,  getting  to  be  one  with  them,  getting  into  sym- 
pathy with  them. 

There  is  wonderful  instruction  in  the  way  in  which  the  Lord 
Jesus  wrought  His  works  of  mercy.  Hsjtouched  the  leper  and 
the  blind  when  He  healed  them.  .  .  .  The  woman  felt  that  if 
she  only  touched  the  hem  of  His  garment  she  would  be  sure  to 
be  healed  ;  and  the  Saviour  felt  that  virtue  had  gone  out  of  Him. 
If  we  keep  so  far  from  the  people  that  they  cannot  even  touch 
the  hem  of  our  garment,  how  wiU  virtue  go  out  of  us  ?  Some- 
times they  are  not  clean,  and  we  are  tempted  to  draw  our  skirts 

-loge^her  ;.  but  I  believe  there  is  no  blessing  when  this  is  the  case. 
The  Lord  Jesus  became  a  curse  for  us,  and  in  that  way  deUvered 
us  from  the  curse.  There  is  power  in  drawing  near  to  this  people. 
A  poor  woman  in  Cheng-tu,"^hen  she  heard  of  Mrs.  Riley's  death 
said :  "  What  a  loss  to  us  !  She  used  to  take  hold  of  my  hand 
g.nd  comfort  me  so."  If  you  put  your  hand  on  the  shoulder 
of  a'mah;  there  is  power  Tn"^  itr    Any  Christian,  full  of  the  Holy      ^  , 

,Ghost^_niay  often  impart  blessing  thus.  ^Contact  is  a  real. power  '  '^. 

.lhat_we^  may  use  for ^od.  ^"^  "^    '^ 

For  consistent  lives  he  pleaded,  telling  lives,  lives  not 
out  of  sight.     \Ve  are  to  manifest  the  truth,  as  well  as  preach_~ 
it  (2  Cor.  iv.  2.     Cp!  Acts  xx.  26-35). 

^e  teU  _tMs.„people_JJhaL  the_world__is,  ,yaiiL;„ JgL.  our  lives  _ 
jnaniJesTX^dX Jit  is  so.     We  tell  them  that  our  Home  is  above. 


4o6         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

that  all  these  things  are  transitory  ;  does  our  dweUing  look 
Hke  it  ?  Oh,  to  live  consistent  lives  !  The  Ufe  of  the  Apostle 
was  thoroughly  consistent.  ...  No  one  could  feel  that  his 
home  was  here  :  all  saw  that  it  was  up  there. 

But  it  is  no  use  Uving  hves  such  as  would  emphasise  our 
teaching,  if  our  lives  are  out  of  sight  and  our  teaching  only  is 
in  evidence.  Must  we  not  seek  to  make  our  Hves  as  open  as  our 
teaching  ?  This  is  no  easy  matter.  The  man  who  hves  two 
or  three  miles  away  from  the  chapel,  and  merely  goes  and  preaches 
to  his  audience  is  often  disappointed.  .  .  .  What  wisdom  we 
need  to  live  hves  that  do  emphasise  our  teaching,  and  to  see 
that  our  lives  are  so  ordered  that  those  who  receive  the  teaching, 
may  catch  the  emphasis  too.  "  ' 

Hard  ^missionaries  are  not  of  mticli  use  :  they  are  not  like 
the  Master.  He  is  never  hard.  It  is  better  to  be  trusting  and 
gentle  and  sympathising,  even  if  often  taken  in,  rather  than 
sharp  and  hard.  The  converts  of  Paul  saw  that  the  Apostle 
deemed  it  a  small  thing  to  die  for  them.  To  the  PhiUppians 
he  wrote  :  "  Yea,  and  if  I  be  offered — my  blood  poured  out  as 
a  drink-offering — upon  the  sacrifice  and  service  of  your  faith, 
1  joy  and  rejoice  with  you  all." 

It  is  not  preaching  only  that  wiU  do  what  needs  to  be  done 
.  .  .  Our  Hfe  must  be  one  of  visible  self-sacrifice.  There  is 
much  sacrifice  in  our  lives  of  which  the  Chinese  cannot  know. 
God  knows  all  about  it,  and  we  can  well  afford  to  wait  His  declara- 
tion of  it  and  His  award.  There  is  much  we  have  left  for  the 
sake  of  the  Chinese  which  they  have  never  seen.  That  will  not 
su£&ce.  They  must  see  self-sacrifice  ui  things  they  cannot  but 
understand.^ 

*  It  was  remarkable  that  in  that  city  (Tai-yuan-fu)  where  the  blood 
of  martyrs  was  to  be  so  freely  shed,  Mr.  Taylor  should  dwell  upon  the 
necessity  for  sacrifice,  and  the  certainty  not  only  that  persecution  mus^ 
come,  but  that  it  would  be  overruled  for  blessing. 

"  Paul  was  in  bonds  in  Rome,  and  we  might  have  imagined  that  his 
position  was  one  that  would  have  deterred  the  brethren.  But  what  does 
he  tell  us  ?  That  they  waxed  confident  through  his  bonds.  So  far  from 
his  sufferings  taking  courage  out  of  the  believers,  when  they  found  what 
a  Uttle  thing  a  chain  was  to  an  Apostle,  they  felt,  '  We  can  preach  with 
good  courage  !  What  is  it,  after  all,  if  only  Christ  is  in  us  ?  '  Christ 
living,  Christ  reigning,  made  the  Apostle  so  superior  to  these  things  that 
it  encouraged  oihers  to  go  forward,  though  at  the  risk  of  the  same  trials.  .  .  . 

"  There  is  no  better  way  of  proving  to  the  world  that  the  devil's  power 
is  not  so  great  after  all  than  by  letting  him  have  his  fling,  and  showing 
in  the  midst  of  it  what  a  triumph  over  him  the  behever  has  in  Christ. 
Just  as  Jesus,  by  dying,  conquered  him  who  had  the  power  of  death,  so 
frail,  feeble  martyrs,  many  of  them  women,  were  able  to  show  that  all 
the  power  of  Pagan  Rome  could  do  nothing  against  those  who  were  filled 


DAYS  OF  BLESSING  407 

With  all  his  desire  that  the  gifts  of  the  native  church 
should  be  developed,  Mr.  Taylor  was  keenly  conscious  of  the 
^danger  of  allowing  education,  medical  work,  or  any  other 
auxiliary  to  usurp  the  foremost  place. 

Let  us  feel  that  everything  that  is  human,  everything  outside 
the  sufficiency  of  Christ,  is  only  helpful  in  the  measure  in  which 
it  enables  us  to  bring  the  soul  to  Him.  ...  If  oui^medical 
missions  draw  people  to  us,  and  we  can  presenT'to  thdrTlhe 
Xhrist  of  God,  medical  missions  are  "a  blessing  ;  but  to  sub- 
stitute medicine  for  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  would  be  a 

7  profound  mistake.     If  we  put  schools  or  education  in  the  place 

v^f  spiritual  power  to  change  the  heart,  it  will  be  a  profound 
mistake.  If  we  get  the  idea  that  people  are  going  to  be  con- 
Verted  by  some  "educational  process,  instead  of  by  a  regenerative 
re-creation,  it  will"  be  a  profound  mistake.     If  we  put  our  trust 

-iajnohey  or  reaming  or  eloquence,  or  in  anything  but  the  Uving 
G_qd,  it  will  be  a  profound  mistake.  Let  aU  our  auxiliaries  be 
auxiliaries — means  of  bringing  Christ  and  the  soul  into  contact 
— then  we  may  be  truly  thankful  for  them  all.  .  .  .  Let  us 
exalt  the  glorious  Gospel  in  our  hearts,  and  believe  that  it  is 
the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  Let  everything  else  sit  at 
it§^fe.et,..'  '  .  We  shall  never  be  discouraged  if  we  realise  that 

,.in  Christ  is  our  Sufficiency. 

~^lVhat  is  the  object  of  being  apprenticed  to  a  builder  but  to 
learn  to  build  ?  What  is  the  outcome  of  being  joined  to  a  Saviour 
if  we  do  not  learn  to  save  ?  Though  we  might  ourselves  be 
saved,  should  we  be  His  disciples  indeed  ? 

In  its  practical  influence  on  Christian  character,  Mr. 
Taylor  felt  that  the  truth  of  the  Second  Coming — the 
personal  return  of  the  Lord  Himself  to  reign  upon  earth — 
was  of  paramount  importance. 

You  wiU  often  read  in  missionary  reports  that  the  people 

with  Christ.  Hence  there  were  many  conversions  in  the  very  arena  .  .  . 
and  the  blood  of  the  martyrs  proved  itself  to  be  indeed  the  seed  of  the 
Church.  .  .  .  Their  foes  thought  they  had  succeeded  ;  it  was  even  an- 
nounced in  their  edicts  that  Christianity  was  defunct ;  but  it  was  paganism 
that  tottered. 

"  We  need  not  be  afraid  of  persecution.  It  is  coming  ;  it  is  sure  to 
comi^  Oiily  let  us  have  such  success  as  to  make  the  people  fear  the  aboli- 
..^n  of  their  customs,  and  we  shall  see  severe  persecution.  But  are  we 
to  fear  lest  the  Gospel  should  triumph  suflEiciently  to  bring  such  results 
about  ?  Or  are  we  to  feel  that,  when  it  does  come,  it  will  bring  to  us 
the  very  conditions  that  will  ensure  still  greater  success  ?  "  {Days  oj 
Blessing,  pp.  41-43.) 


4o8         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

have  turned  to  God  from  idols,  to  serve  the  Uving  and  true  God, 
but  not  in  one  out  of  ten  do  you  hear  anything  about  their  wait- 
ing for  His  Son  from  heaven  (i  Thess.  i.  9).  I  beUeve  that  the 
ignorance  of  the  native  Christians  generally  of  the  fact  that 
Christ  is  coming  again,  and  that  the  present  state  of  things  is 
to  be  utterly  overthrown,  is  one  reason  for  the  selfishness  and 
worldliness  to  be  found  in  some  branches  of  the  Church  in  China. 
Well  do  I  remember  the  effect,  when  God  was  pleased  to 
open  my  own  heart  to  this  great  truth  that  the  Lord  Jesus  was 
coming  again,  and  that  He  might  come  at  any  time.  I  had  not 
many  books,  but  it  sent  me  to  see  if  I  could  give  a  good  account 
of  all  I  had,  and  also  of  the  contents  of  my  little  wardrobe. 
The  result  was  that  some  of  the  books  disappeared  before  long, 
and  some  of  the  clothing  too.  It  was  an  immense  spiritual 
blessing  to  me.  When  I  go  home  from  China,  and  can  make 
time  to  go  through  my  house  from  attic  to  basement  with  my 
dear  wife,  to  review  our  things  in  the  light  of  His  speedy  return, 
I  always  find  it  a  profitable  spiritual  exercise  to  see  what  we  can 
do  without.  It  is  important  to  remember  that  we  are  stewards 
who  have  to  give  an  account  of  everything  that  we  retain  ;  and 
unless  we  can  give  a  good  reason  for  the  retention,  shall  we  not 
be  ashamed  when  the  Master  comes  ?  And  since  He  may  come 
any  day,  is  it  not  well  to  be  ready  every  day  ?  I  do  not  know 
of  any  truth  that  hcLS  been  a  greater  blessing  to  me  through 
hfe  than  this. 

Very  practical,  too,  was  his  attitude  as  to  the  fulness 
laid  up  for  us  in  Christ. 

God  is  willing  to  give  us  all  we  need,  as  we  need  it.  He  does 
not  equip  for  life-service  all  at  once.  He  does  not  expect  us  to 
toil  along,  burdened  with  next  year's  provisions  on  our  back. 
There  are  fresh  suppHes  on  the  way,  fresh  light,  fresh  poWfer, 
fresh  revelations  as  circumstances  require. 

Oh,  to  be  filled  with  the  knowledge  of  God's  will !  to  be  so 
filled  with  the  presence  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  so  one  with  Him,  that 
His  life  may  flow  through  our  veins  ;  that  He  may  borrow  our 
hps  to  speak  His  messages,  borrow  our  faces  to  look  His  looks  . 
of  patience  and  love,  our  hands  to.  do  His  service  and  our  feet 
to  tread  His  weary  journeys.  The  dear  Master  can  never  be 
weary  again  by  the  side  of  any  well,  but  we  may  be  weary  by  the 
side  of  many  for  Him. 

Whatever  the  sufficiency  of  Christ  is  for  us,  there  is  the  same 
sufficiency  in  Him  for  our  native  converts. 

In  times  of  discouragement  it  is  a  great  help  to  remember 
that  the  Lord's  work  is  not  our  work  for  the  Lord,  but  the  Lord's 


DAYS  OF  BLESSING  409 

own  work  through  us  and  others.     "  He  will  not  fail,  nor  be 
discouraged. ' ' 

Refreshed'  in  spirit,  it  was  time  for  the  workers  from  the 
south  of  the  province  to  hasten  back  to  their  stations  after 
this  week  of  meetings.  The  rainy  season  had  set  in,  and  it 
would  be  all  they  could  do  to  make  final  arrangements  for 
the  native  conferences  before  Mr.  Taylor's  arrival  at  Hung- 
tung.  Mr.  Stevenson  was  there  already,  having  come  over 
from  the  neighbouring  province  of  Shen-si  to  join  Mr. 
Taylor  in  this  part  of  his  programme.  Finding  the  mission- 
aries absent,  he  had  spent  several  weeks  among  the  Chinese 
Christians,  glad  of  the  opportunity  for  coming  into  close 
touch  with  the  leaders  and  their  work.  To  him  as  to  Mr. 
Taylor  it  was  a  new  experience  to  find,  in  these  northerners, 
men  of  such  vigorous  independence  of  character,  and  he  was 
not  slow  to  see  how  much  it  meant  for  the  future  of  the 
native  church. 

But  it  was  more  than  energy  and  initiative  that  impressed 
him,  about  Mr.  Hsi  especially.  During  the  five  or  six  weeks 
spent  in  his  district  Mr.  Stevenson  travelled  with  him, 
visited  his  home  and  Refuges,  listened  with  delight  to  his 
preaching,  and  saw  him  among  the  church  members,  to 
whom  he  was  a  shepherd  indeed. 

"  I     was     profoundly     interested,"     he     recalled.      **  His 
spirituality   and   earnestness ;     his   prayer   and   fastings ;     the 
intensity  of  his  purpose — nothing  in   the   world  but   the   one 
thing — and  his  ability  as  a  practical  leader  were  most  remarkable. 
I  had  never  seen  such  influence  over  others  !     He  was  so  strong 
that  all  seemed  to  yield  to  him,  and  yet  humble  too.     I  was 
specially  struck  by  the  way  people  came  to  consult  him.     He 
had  everybody's  burdens  to  bear,   and  was  always  ready  to  , 
advise  and  pray  with  those  who  needed  help. 
""     "  His  knowledge  and  use  of  Scripture  also  impressed  meTj 
One  sermon  on  the  temptation  of  Christ  that  he  preached  was  ' 
very  striking.     Familiar  passages  seemed  to  unfold  new  mean- 
ing under  his  touch  and  in  the  light  of  his  spiritual  experience. 
I  God   was   to   him   a   tremendous   reality.l    Constantly   and   in 
'  everything  he  dealt  with  God.     In  a  very  real  way  he  dealt 
with  Satan  too.     His  conflicts  with  the  evil  one  at  times  were 
such  that  he  would  give  himself  for  days  to  fasting  and  prayer. 
Even  when  travelling,  I  have  known  him  fast  a  whole  day  over 


410         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

some  difficult  matter  that  needed  clearing  up.     That  was  always 
I  liis  resomcG— fast  and  pray,"       """^^ 

That  such  gifts  and  grace  should  be  taken  full  advantage 
of  in  the  organisation  of  the  church  was  evident,  and  Mr. 
Stevenson  was  ready  to  confirm  the  judgement  of  the  local 
missionaries  by  which  Mr.  Taylor  had  largely  to  be  guided 
in  the  steps  to  be  taken  at  the  conference.  It  had  been 
easier  to  set  out  for  Hung-tung  than  to  get  there.  Held  up 
by  the  rain  in  that  loess  region,  Mr.  Taylor  and  his  com- 
panions had  had  exciting  experiences  in  some  of  the  deep 
gullies  worn  in  the  friable  soil.  A  hundred  feet  below  the 
surface,  in  places,  the  road  was  sometimes  a  quagmire, 
sometimes  a  rushing  torrent,  and  turbulent  streams  among 
the  hills  had  to  be  crossed.  Tw^o  weeks  of  such  travelling 
brought  them  to  their  destination,  however,  on  July  30, 
to  find  the  Hung-tung  Christians  assembled  in  force  for  the 
conference. 

What  it  was  to  Mr.  Taylor  to  meet  these  men  and  see 
for  himself  the  inspiring  work  of  which  he  had  heard  may 
be  better  imagined  than  described.  When  one  thinks  of  all 
that  it  had  meant  to  him  of  faith  and  toil  and  prayer — all 
that  he  had  done  and  suffered  that  inland  China  might 
have  the  Gospel — one  can  understand  that  to  be  welcomed 
by  such  a  company  of  believers  on  his  first  visit  to  the  far 
interior  would  be  one  of  the  most  moving  experiences  of 
his  life.  With  Mr.  Hsi  he  was  impressed  no  less  than  Mr. 
Stevenson  had  been,  and  it  was  a  wonderful  meeting,  that 
first  day  of  the  conference,  when  they  took  the  Sunday 
morning  service  between  them  (August  i). 

"  There  cannot  have  been  fewer  than  three  hundred  listeners 
in  the  court,"  wrote  Mr.  Stanley  Smith.  "  It  made  our  hearts 
glad  to  think  of  Mr.  Taylor's  joy  as  he  saw  those  earnest 
worshippers,  and  in  that  sight  some  outcome  of  years  of  prayer 
that  has  known  no  ceasing,  of  labour  that  has  known  no  respite  : 
above  all,  it  raised  our  hearts  to  Him  Who  in  that  gathering 
was  seeing  further  of  the  travail  of  His  soul  and  being  satisfied." 

It  was  not  easy  to  get  Mr.  Hsi  to  accept  the  position  to 
which  Mr.  Taylor,  as  leader  of  the  Mission,  wished  to  appoint 
him.     But  for  Mr.  Stevenson's  influence  he  would  probably 


DAYS  OF  BLESSING  411 

have  held  back,  so  deep  was  his  sense  of  unworthiness. 
But  the  latter  was  sufficiently  intimate  with  him  for  Mr. 
Hsi  to  feel  that  he  really  understood  the  local  problems 
as  well  as  his  own  limitations ;  and  when  the  Deputy 
Director  led  him  to  see  that  Mr.  Taylor  was  but  confirming 
what  was  manifestly  a  divine  appointment,  he  could  no 
longer  demur.  From  that  Saturday  until  the  Ordination 
Service  of  the  following  Monday  he  gave  himself  to  fasting 
and  prayer,  literally  touching  no  food  ;  and  the  sense  of  the 
presence  of  God  with  him  was  deeply  solemnising. 

"  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor,  inviting  the  brethren  working  in  the 
district  to  unite  with  him  in  the  laying  on  of  hands,"  Mr.  Stanley 
Smith  recorded,  *'  after  a  few  words  of  fervent  prayer,  set  him 
apart  to  be  a  watcher  over  and  feeder  of  the  sheep  of  God.  Mr. 
Hsi  was  ordained  pastor  of  no  particular  district.  He  has  done 
such  an  extensive  work,  and  been  so  owned  of  God,  that  it  was 
thought  best  that  he  should  be  free  to  go  anywhere  for  the  work 
of  God  in  these  parts,  knowing  well  how  he  would  be  welcomed 
by  all  the  churches.  Mr.  Song  was  then  set  apart  as  native 
Pastor  of  the  Ping-yang  church." 

The  appointment  of  two  elders  followed  and  of  sixteen 
deacons,  after  which  over  seventy  baptized  believers  united 
in  the  Communion  Service  led  by  Pastor  Hsi. 

One  day's  journey  farther  south — at  Ping-yang-fu — 
another  conference  was  held,  attended  by  as  many  of  the 
Ta-ning  Christians  as  could  come  down  from  the  mountains. 
It  was  a  busy  season  for  farming  folk,  and  unusually  heavy 
rains  had  made  travelling  in  such  regions  almost  impossible, 
but  a  warm-hearted  company  responded  to  the  invitation 
of  their  beloved  missionary,  Mr.  Cassels,  to  meet  "  the 
Venerable  Chief  Pastor,"  whose  children  in  the  faith  they 
also  were.  Tenderly  he  spoke  to  them  of  the  deeper  lessons 
of  his  own  life,  and  how,  through  its  sorest  trials,  he  had 
learned  what  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  can  be  to  those  who 
simply  trust  Him.  The  ordination  of  Ch'ii,  the  fervent  and 
scholarly  evangelist  of  the  Ta-ning  district,  and  the  appoint- 
ment of  five  deacons,  fitly  closed  the  meetings,  after  which 
Mr.  Taylor  had  to  turn  his  face  westward  for  the  long  journey 
to  Han-chung-fu. 


412         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

A  brief  visit  first  to  Pastor  Hsi's  home,  ten  miles  across 
the  plain,  gave  him  the  opportunity  of  seeing  more  of  this 
remarkable  man  and  the  Opium  Refuge  work  for  which  he 
was  responsible.  Accompanied  by  quite  a  party,  Mr. 
Taylor  arrived  in  the  cool  of  the  day.^  Everjrthing  was 
beautifully  arranged  for  their  coming,  the  guest  hall  being 
fitted  up  as  a  state  chamber,  and  the  courtyard  on  which 
it  opened  covered  with  an  awning  that  it  might  do  duty  as  a 
chapel.  Here  the  principal  meetings  were  held,  the  joy  on 
all  faces  reflecting  the  golden  characters  of  welcome  above 
the  guest  hall,  shining  out  from  their  crimson  background — 
*'  Ta  Hsi  Nien,"  or  "  Year  of  Great  Happiness." 

Interesting  as  it  all  was,  perhaps  the  best  part  of  the 
visit  to  Mr.  Taylor  was  the  account  he  heard  of  the  opening 
of  a  Refuge  in  one  of  the  cities  he  had  passed  on  his  journey 
through  the  province.  The  place  had  long  been  on  Pastor 
Hsi's  heart,  though  he  little  anticipated  the  way  in  which 
his  desire  to  commence  work  there  was  to  be  granted. 
Having  no  means  in  hand  that  he  could  use  for  the  purpose, 
he  prayed  the  more  earnestly  day  by  day  at  family  worship 
that  the  Gospel  might  be  given  to  the  Christless  population 
of  Hwo-chow. 

*'  We  have  prayed  very  often  for  that  city,"  his  wife  said 
at  length,  "  is  it  not  time  to  do  something  there  ?  " 

"  Gladly  would  I,"  responded  her  husband,  "  but  money 
is  lacking.  I  have  nothing  to  use  for  the  purpose,  and 
renting  houses  is  expensive." 

"How  much  would  it  require  ?  "  was  her  next  question. 
And  on  hearing  his  reply  she  went  away  and  said  no  more 
about  it. 

But  she  too  could  not  forget  Hwo-chow  ;  and  next  morn- 
ing it  was  an  unadorned  little  figure  that  came  up  and  laid 
some  packages  on  the  table  after  family  worship. 

"  I  think,"  she  said,  "  that  God  has  answered  our  prayers 
about  that  cit3^" 

Missing  something  in  her  appearance  as  well  as  surprised 

*  Dr.  Edwards  and  Messrs.  Stevenson,  Stanley  Smith,  and  Beauchamp 
were  with  him,  as  well  as  his  son,  Mr.  Herbert  Taylor,  who  had  been  his 
companion  all  the  way  from  Shanghai. 


DAYS  OF  BLESSING  413 

at  her  words.  Pastor  Hsi  opened  one  of  the  packets,  to  find 
nothing  less  than  all  her  jewelry — ^the  gold  and  silver 
ornaments,  bracelets,  rings,  and  even  hair-pins  so  indispens- 
able to  a  Chinese  lady  and  that  form  her  marriage  dower. 

*'  You  cannot  surely  mean,''  he  began,  "  you  cannot  do 
without " 

"  Yes,  I  can,"  she  said  joyfully.  "  I  can  do  without 
these  :   let  Hwo-chow  have  the  Gospel.'* 

And  with  the  money  they  had  brought,  the  Refuge  had 
been  opened  and  a  good  work  begun. ^ 

*'  But  do  you  not  miss  your  beautiful  things  ?  "  said  Mr. 
Taylor,  tmrning  to  his  hostess. 

"  Miss  them  !  "  she  replied,  almost  with  surprise.  "  Why, 
I  have  Jesus  :   is  not  He  enough?  " 

Little  wonder  it  was  hard  to  part  trom  friends  like  these, 
and  from  the  fellow-missionaries  he  was  leaving  behind  to 
share  with  them  the  great  work  developing  in  all  that  part 
of  the  province.  Messrs.  Studd  and  Beauchamp  were  going 
on  with  Mr.  Taylor  to  take  part  in  opening  up  the  Church 
of  England  district  he  hoped  to  arrange  for  in  Sze-chwan. 
Mr.  Cassels  was  to  follow  shortly  ;  but  Messrs.  Hoste  and 
Stanley  Smith  were  remaining  in  south  Shan-si,  and  for 
them  the  parting  was  hardest. 

"  Their  first  stage  was  by  moonlight,"  wrote  the  latter, 
"  and  we  accompanied  them  out  some  way.  A  few  last  words 
of  helpful  counsel,  a  few  last  words  of  mutual  love,  a  few  last 
words  in  solemn  stillness  as  with  hands  locked  in  his  we  each 
received  his  parting  blessing,  and  the  visit  to  Shan-si,  so  long 
expected,  so  long  deferred,  but  now  so  blessed  in  its  outcome, 
was  over." 

To  fruitful  fields  ready  for  the  reaper  they  went  back, 
but  on  beyond  there  was  no  sign  of  harvest.  Out-distancing 
his  companions,  all  but  Mr.  Beauchamp,  that  he  might  save 
a  mail  at  Han-chung,  Mr.  Taylor  pressed  forward  ;  but  even 
so,  twenty-four  travelling  days  were  occupied  on  the  journey, 
in  which  not  a  single  Mission  station  was  passed,  because  in 
all  that  populous  region  there  was  none. 

^  For  the  remarkable  sequel  see  Miss  Cable's  The  Fulfilment  of  a  Dream, 
published  by  Messrs.  Morgan  &  Scott  and  the  China  Inland  Mission. 


414         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

It  was  strenuous  travelling,  for  v/hich  Mr.  Beauchamp's 
athletic  training  stood  him  in  good  stead.  With  a  couple 
of  pack  animals  they  were  able  to  carry  a  few  necessaries, 
Mr.  Taylor  riding  most  of  the  way,  for  his  companion  pre- 
ferred to  walk. 

"  Our  great  difficulty  was  in  getting  anything  to  eat,"  Mr. 
Beauchamp  recalled,  when  the  overpowering  heat  by  day  obhged 
them  to  travel  at  night,  "  and  we  constantly  lost  our  way  for 
want  of  some  one  to  direct  us.  At  first  Mr.  Taylor  was  greatly 
troubled  that  I  should  carry  him  across  rivers,  and  also  that  I 
was  unable  to  get  much  sleep  ;  but  having  once  overruled  liis 
objection  I  carried  him  many  a  time.  With  Mr.  Taylor  on  my 
shoulder  and  a  Chinaman  on  either  side  to  weigh  us  down,  we 
were  able  to  cross  in  safety  some  strong  streams,  waist  deep. 

"  Night  travelling  was  one  of  the  hardest  experiences  I  ever 
had,  because  I  could  not  sleep  by  day.  Occasionally,  when  I 
did  drop  off,  I  would  wake  to  find  that  Mr.  Taylor  had  been 
looking  after  me,  rigging  up  mosquito-netting  to  keep  the  flies 
away.  Walking  at  night,  I  have  been  so  sleepy  that  even  the 
motion  could  not  keep  me  awake,  and  have  fallen  right  down 
while  plodding  on — the  tumble  rousing  one  for  the  time  being  ! 

"  The  inns  being  closed  at  night,  we  used  often  to  He  down 
by  the  roadside,  when  the  animals  had  to  be  fed.  Our  own  fare 
consisted  chiefly  of  rice  and  millet.  Occasionally  we  were  able 
to  purchase  a  chicken,  eggs,  cucumbers,  or  a  Uttle  fruit.  But 
we  did  not  stop  at  regular  stages,  and  as  it  was  the  rainy  season 
nothing  was  brought  out  for  sale  in  the  places  through  which 
we  passed.  With  so  much  rain,  we  often  got  soaked  through. 
The  way  we  managed  was  to  take  off  our  garments  one  by  one 
and  dry  them  in  front  of  the  fire.  On  one  occasion  this  so 
offended  the  '  Kitchen  God  '  that  Mr.  Taylor  had  to  come  and 
make  peace.  Of  course  we  carried  no  bedding,  though  Mr. 
Taylor  always  had  two  pillows,  one  for  the  head  and  one  for 
the  thigh,  and  we  each  carried  a  plaid.  The  medicine-chest 
sometimes  came  in  useful  as  an  extra  pillow." 

Again  and  again  it  seemed  as  if  they  must  be  stopped 
by  the  rain,  but  in  answer  to  definite  prayer  help  was  given 
at  every  point. 

"  I  remember  coming  to  one  river,"  continued  Mr.  Beauchamp, 
"  where  there  were  a  few  houses  and  people  who  made  a  harvest 
by  carrying  travellers  over.  They  met  us  saying  the  river  was 
impassable,  nevertheless  for  a  thousand  cash  apiece  they  would 


DAYS  OF  BLESSING  415 

take  us  across.  This  was  outrageous  :  so  I  went  into  the  water 
which  was  rising  by  inches,  the  rain  being  a  perfect  deluge. 
When  the  men  saw  we  were  not  to  be  deterred,  they  came  and 
gave  some  help,  glad  to  be  paid  a  fair  price  for  their  work.  After 
we  were  over,  the  water  rose  by  feet.  Had  we  been  half  an 
hour  later,  no  crossing  would  have  been  possible.  The  river 
was  by  that  time  a  wild,  raging  torrent. 

"  On  the  farther  side  there  was  a  small  village,  but  no  inn. 
To  go  on  was  impossible.  Stay  we  must,  though  the  only 
shelter  we  could  find  was  apparently  a  pig-sty.  So  we  turned 
the  occupant  out,  borrowed  a  few  forms,  took  the  doors  off  their 
hinges  to  lie  on,  and  rolUng  ourselves  in  our  plaids  prepared  to 
pass  the  night  as  comfortably  as  circumstances  would  admit. 
We  were  only  masters  of  the  situation  for  a  short  time,  however  ; 
for  the  pig  came  back,  charged  the  make-shift  door,  which  at 
once  fell  in,  and  settled  down  to  share  the  apartment  with  us. 
After  reflection,  I  concluded  that  it  was  too  cold  to  turn  out  on 
the  chance  of  ignominious  defeat  at  the  hands  of  the  enemy. 

"  Next  day  was  still  cold — high  mountains  instead  of  the 
Si-an  plain,  drenching  rain  instead  of  burning  sun.  The  road 
was  washed  away  in  places,  but  still  Mr.  Taylor  would  push  on. 
Wliere  the  river  side  was  impassable,  we  had  to  clamber  up 
steep  banks  as  best  we  could,  and  foUow  crumbling  tracks  on 
the  m(^ntains.  Nothing  would  stop  him,  though  he  often 
begged  me  to  remain  behind.  We  had  several  narrow  escapes 
from  landslips — the  path  giving  way  behind  us  and  roUing 
stones  and  earth  into  the  stream.  We  had  no  fear  of  robbers  ; 
and  the  wolves,  though  we  saw  them,  did  not  attack  us.  We 
went  forty-eight  to  fifty  miles  one  day  ;  and  the  last  three 
stages  we  made  into  two,  not  to  miss  the  mail  at  Han-chung." 

Mr.  Taylor's  cheerfulness  and  power  of  endurance  greatly 
impressed  his  fellow-traveller.  Hearing  him  singing  on  one 
occasion  when  they  were  very  himgry,  and  catching  the 
words  "  We  thank  Thee,  Lord,  for  this  our  food,"  Mr.  Beau- 
champ  could  not  but  inquire  where  the  food  was. 

"  It  cannot  be  far  away,"  was  the  smiling  reply.    '*  Our  1 
Father  knows  we  are  hungry  and  will  send  our  breakfast 
soon  :    but  you  will  have  to  wait  and  say  your  grace  when 
it  comes,  while  /  shall  be  ready  to  begin  at  once  !  " 

And  so  it  proved  ;  for  just  ahead  they  met  a  man  with 
ready-cooked  rice  to  sell,  which  made  an  excellent  meal. 

But  the  soul  never  went  hungry.     A  box  of  matches,  a 


4i6         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

foreign  candle,  and  his  Bible  in  four  small  volumes  were 
included  in  Mr.  Taylor's  travelling  kit  whatever  else  had  to 
be  left  behind. 

"  He  would  invariably  get  his  quiet  time  an  hour  before, 
dawn,"  Mr.  Beauchamp  wrote,  "  and  then  possibly  sleep  again. 
.  .  .  When  I  woke  to  feed  the  animals  I  always  found  him' 
reading  the  Bible  by  the  hght  of  his  candle.  No  matter  what 
the  surroundings  or  the  noise  in  those  dirty  inns,  he  never 
neglected  this.  He  used  to  pray  on  such  journeys  lying  down, 
for  he  usually  spent  long  times  in  prayer,  and  to  kneel  would 
have  been  too  exhausting." 

Kept  thus  in  touch  with  unfailing  springs,  the  travellers 
reached  Han-chung-fu  to  bring  as  well  as  find  a  blessing. 
Much  as  Mr.  Stevenson's  report  had  led  him  to  expect  of  the 
converts  in  this  centre,  Mr.  Taylor  was  not  disappointed. 
In  the  intervals  of  attending  to  a  heavy  mail,  he  saw  a  good 
deal  of  Dr.  Wilson's  medical  work  and  of  the  schools  and 
native  helpers.  The  earnest  spirit  of  the  Christians  greatly 
rejoiced  him,  especially  in  view  of  their  interest  in  the 
adjacent  province  of  Sze-chwan,  from  which  not  a  few  of 
them  had  come  as  emigrants.  Their  keen  desire  f*o  carry 
the  message  of  salvation  back  to  their  own  people  encouraged 
the  hope  Mr.  Taylor  entertained — that  of  seeing  eastern 
Sze-chwan,  as  yet  almost  entirely  destitute  of  the  Gospel, 
opened  up  by  the  Church  of  England  workers  of  the  Mission.^ 

For  the  moment,  the  outlook  was  not  encouraging.  A 
serious  riot  had  taken  place  at  Chung-king — one  of  the  only 

*  With  regard  to  the  denominational  position  of  the  Mission,  Mr. 
Taylor  had  written  as  early  as  1866  (a  few  weeks  only  after  the  arrival 
of  the  Lammermuir  party)  in  reply  to  an  inquiry  from  the  Rev.  W.  Muir- 
head  of  the  L.M.S.,  Shanghai : 

"  Those  already  associated  with  me  represent  all  the  leading  denomina- 
tions of  our  native  land — Episcopal,  Presbyterian,  Congregational, 
Methodist,  Baptist  and  Paedobaptist.  Besides  these,  two  are  or  have 
been  connected  with  the  '  Brethren  '  so  called.  It  is  intended  that  those 
whose  view  of  discipline  correspond  shall  work  together,  and  thus  all 
difi&culty  on  that  score  will  be  avoided.  Each  one  is  perfectly  at  liberty 
to  teach  his  own  views  on  these  minor  points  to  his  own  converts  ;  the 
one  great  object  we  have  in  view  being  to  bring  heathen  from  darkness 
to  hght,  from  the  power  of  Satan  to  God.  We  all  hold  alike  the  great 
fundamentals  of  our  faith,  and  in  the  presence  of  heathenism  can  leave 
the  discussion  of  disciphne  while  together,  and  act  as  before  God  when 
in  separate  stations." 


DAYS  OF  BLESSING  417 

two  centres  in  Sze-chwan  at  which  Protestant  missionaries 
were  working — and  easy  as  it  would  have  been  for  Mr. 
Taylor  to  enter  the  province  from  Han-chung,  he  might 
have  found  it  impracticable  to  leave  again  without  delay 
by  the  Yangtze.  Tidings  received  from  the  coast  had  made 
it  clear  that  he  must  return  to  Shanghai  as  soon  as  possible. 
Mission  affairs  required  his  presence,  and  he  was  still  a 
month's  journey  from  civihsation  in  the  shape  of  a  foreign 
steamer.  But  though  he  had  to  leave  the  actual  pioneering 
in  Sze-chwan  to  others,  he  could  at  any  rate  help  in  opening 
the  way  by  definite  waiting  upon  God.  A  day  was  set  apart 
therefore  for  fasting  and  prayer,  when  Mr.  Taylor  united 
with  the  Han-chung  circle  in  seeking  the  guidance  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  and  a  fresh  baptism  of  love  and  power  upon 
those  who  were  to  go  forward.  Very  conscious  were  the 
missionaries,  so  soon  to  be  scattered,  of  access  to  God  in  the 
all-prevailing  name  of  Jesus,  and  the  answer  to  their  prayers 
was  apparent  not  only  in  the  occupation  of  Eastern  Sze- 
chwan  before  the  close  of  the  year,  but  in  a  quickened  sense 
of  responsibility  which  led  to  extension  in  other  directions 
also. 

We  may  almost  feel  ourselves  one  with  that  little  group, 
far  in  the  heart  of  China,  through  the  recollections  jotted 
down  at  the  time  of  one  of  the  last  meetings  before  Mr. 
Taylor  left.  In  the  twilight  of  a  summer  evening  they  had 
gathered  in  Dr.  Wilson's  courtyard.  Lamps  were  lighted 
under  the  broad  eaves  of  the  open  guest-hall,  and  beyond 
were  the  shining  stars. 

Mr.  Taylor's  subject  was  Phil.  iii. :  that  what  we  give  up  for 
Christ  we  gain,  and  what  we  keep  back  is  our  real  loss.  We 
seemed  to  lose  sight  of  the  speaker  and  to  hear  only  the  voice 
of  the  Holy  Spirit.  It  ^yas  a  time  of  humbling  and  confession, 
nearly  _e very  one  was  broken  down.  .  .~  I  cannot  tell  you  what 
it  was  to  sit  there  and  hear  Mr.  Taylor  tell  of  the  hundreds  of 
towns  and  cities  he  had  passed,  and  not  a  single  Christian  in 
any  of  them  !  Vividly  he  described  all  this  and  the  condition 
of  the  people  :  and  there  were  we,  comfortably  settled  down, 
taking  for  granted  perhaps  that  we  had  obeyed  our  Master's 
command,  practicaUy  forgetting  that  Han-chung-fu  was  not 
the  world,  and  that  people  even  in  the  villages  at  hand  might 

2  E 


4i8         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

never  hear  of  Christ  unless  we  set  ourselves  to  go  to  them.  The 
way  in  which  he  spoke  of  eternity— life  eternal  or  death  eternal 
—must  have  moved  the  coldest  heart.     One  sentence  I  speciaUy 

remember :  ...  ^        ^ 

"  Let  us  make  earth  a  Httle  less  homehke,  and  souls  more 
precious.  Jesus  is  coming  again,  and  so  soon  1  Will  He  find 
us  really  obe>dng  His  last  command  ?  " 


CHAPTER   XXIX 

THE  HUNDRED 

1886-1887.    Aet.  54-55. 

Profoundly  impressed  by  all  he  had  seen  of  the  accessi- 
bility and  need  of  the  northern  provinces,  Mr.  Taylor  had 
come  by  boat  a  thousand  miles  down  the  Han,  bringing  with 
him  the  little  daughter  of  one  of  the  Han-chung  missionaries, 
whose  parents  sav/  that  nothing  but  a  change  of  cHmate 
could  save  her  life.  Only  five  years  old,  little  Annie  could 
speak  no  English,  though,  when  not  too  shy,  she  could 
prattle  away  in  Chinese  prettily  enough.  Strange  to  say, 
she  was  never  shy  with  Mr.  Taylor.  It  had  been  hard  for 
the  mother  to  part  with  her,  frail  as  she  was  from  months  of 
illness  ;  but  once  on  the  boat  in  Mr.  Taylor's  care  she  wonder- 
fully brightened  up.  It  speaks  much  for  the  confidence  with 
which  fellow-workers  regarded  him  that  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Pearse 
had  no  hesitation  about  the  arrangement,  save  on  the  ground 
of  giving  Mr.  Taylor  trouble.  They  knew  there  would  be 
no  woman  in  the  party,  and  that  for  a  month  or  six  weeks 
he  would  be  the  only  one  to  see  to  little  Annie's  food  and 
clothing,  as  well  as  to  care  for  her  by  day  and  night.  They 
were  quite  satisfied  that  the  child  would  not  suffer,  however, 
though  even  they  might  have  been  surprised  at  the  comfort 
Mr.  Taylor  found  in  her  companionship. 

"  My  little  charge  is  wonderfully  improving,"  he  wrote  to 
Mrs.  Taylor  on  the  journey,  "  and  is  quite  good  and  cheerful. 
She  clings  to  me  very  lovingly,  and  it  is  sweet  to  feel  little  arms 
around  one's  neck  once  more." 

Hard  as  it  was  to  be  so  long  absent  from  home  and 

419 


420         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

loved  ones,  the  way  was  not  yet  clear  for  Mr.  Taylor's  return 
to  England.  Nearly  two  years  had  passed  since  he  had 
come  out  in  advance  of  the  Cambridge  Party,  but  great  as 
had  been  the  progress  in  many  directions,  the  recently 
developed  organisation  needed  strengthening  before  he 
could  think  of  leaving  China. 

"  Oh,  how  weary  I  have  been  with  the  hundreds  of  letters  !  " 
he  wrote  to  Mrs.  Taylor  some  weeks  after  his  return  to  the  coast. 
"  How  many  questions  have  had  to  be  taken  to  the  Lord  1  The 
way  is  now  becoming  somewhat  clearer." 

The  year  was  drawing  to  a  close  (1886),  and  the  chief 
object  before  him  was  the  formation  of  a  Council  of  ex- 
perienced workers  to  help  Mr.  Stevenson  in  his  new  capacity 
as  Deputy  Director.  The  latter  had  also  returned  from  his 
inland  journey,  full  of  enthusiasm  over  what  he  had  seen  in 
the  northern  provinces.  He  had  spent  several  weeks  with 
Pastor  Hsi  after  Mr.  Taylor  had  left,  visiting  widely  scattered 
groups  of  converts,  and  was  more  than  ever  impressed  with 
the  vitality  and  possibilities  of  the  work.  His  heart  was 
overflowing  with  joy  in  the  Lord,  the  joy  that  is  our  strength, 
and  coming  freshly  into  responsibilities  Mr.  Taylor  had  been 
bearing  for  years  he  brought  with  him  no  little  accession  of 
hope  and  courage. 

"  We  aU  saw  visions  at  that  time,"  he  himself  recalled. 
**  Those  were  days  of  heaven  upon  earth :  nothing  seemed 
difficult." 

In  this  spirit,  then,  the  Superintendents  of  the  various 
provinces  gathered  for  their  first  meeting,  at  An-king,  in  the 
middle  of  November.  Several  were  detained  in  their  own 
stations,  and  one  or  two  were  at  home  on  furlough,  but  a 
little  group  of  leaders,  including  Mr.  McCarthy,  spent  from 
two  to  three  weeks  with  Mr.  Taylor  and  Mr.  Stevenson. 
Before  the  Council  was  convened  at  all,  a  whole  week  was 
given  to  waiting  upon  God  with  prayer  and  fasting  (the 
latter  on  alternate  days),  so  that  it  was  with  prepared  hearts 
they  came  to  the  consideration  of  the  questions  before  them. 

Upon  the  conclusions  of  that  Council  Meeting,  important 
as  they  were,  we  must  not  dwell  in  detail.    A  little  grey 


THE  HUNDRED  421 

book,  embodying  the  chief  results,  soon  found  its  way  to  all 
the  stations  of  the  Mission — a  little  book  breathing  the  spirit 
of  the  Master,  as  well  as  packed  full  of  wise  and  helpful 
suggestions.  There  were  instructions  for  special  officers, 
the  Treasurer,  the  Secretary  in  China,  and  the  Superin- 
tendents ;  instructions  for  senior  and  junior  missionaries, 
lady  evangelists  and  probationers,  all  based  upon  a  thorough 
understanding  of  conditions  in  China.  A  course  of  study  in 
the  language,  carefully  prepared  by  Mr.  Stevenson,  Mr. 
Bailer,  and  others,  was  adopted  for  use  in  the  Training 
Homes  ;  and  the  Principles  and  Practice  of  the  mission  were 
restated  and  somewhat  amplified  for  younger  workers.^ 

"It  is  hoped  that  all  our  friends  will  have  seen  from  the 
foregoing,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  in  a  concluding  letter,  "  that  what 
is  sought  is  to  reUeve  and  help  each  one,  and  only  to  conduce 
to  that  harmonious  co-operation  without  which  the  working  of 
a  large  and  scattered  Mission  would  be  impossible.  Those  at 
a  distance  must  be  helped  by  those  near,  and  this  can  only  be 
done  as  those  near  know  the  extent  to  which  they  can  depend 
on  the  co-operation  of  those  at  a  distance. 

"  The  principle  of  godly  rule  is  a  most  important  one,  for  it 
equally  affects  us  all.  It  is  this — the  seeking  to  help,  not  to 
lord ;  to  keep  from  wrong  paths  and  lead  into  right  paths,  for 
fhe^Iof  ybf  God  and  the  good  of  those  guided,  not  for  the  gratifica- 
tiorTofjthe^jiilen  Such  rule  always  leads  the  ruler  to  the  Cross, 
and  saves  the  ruled  at  the  cost  of  the  ruler.  .  .  .  Let  us  all 
drink  into  this_  spirit,  then  lording  on  the  one  hand  and  bondage 
on  the  other  will  be  alike  impossible.  .  .  .  When  the  heart  is 
rightjt  loves  godly  rule,  and  finds  freedom  in  obedience." 

But  there  is  something  more  important  than  the  Grey 
Book  which  must  be  traced  to  the  meetings  of  this  first 
China  Council,  and  that  is  the  spirit  of  faith  and  expectancy 
which  launched  the  mission  at  this  time  upon  new  testings 

1  It  is  difi&cult  in  these  days  to  realise  how  young  the  Mission  still 
was.  It  had  been  founded  Httle  more  than  twenty  years,  and  while  several 
scores  of  its  members  had  been  out  more  than  five  years,  by  far  the  larger 
number  were  new-comers.  Out  of  a  total  of  a  hundred  and  eighty-seven 
no  fewer  than  a  hundred  and  ten  were  junior  missionaries  or  probationers, 
which  meant  that  they  were  young  in  years  as  well  as  in  experience.  It 
was  clearly  desirable,  therefore,  to  formulate  for  their  benefit  much  that 
had  been  learned  at  great  cost  by  those  to  whom  they  looked  for  help 
and  guidance. 


422         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

of  the  faithfulness  of  God.     Up  in  Shan-si  it  had  begun, 
when  Mr.  Stevenson  had  written  from  the  capital : 

We  are  greatly  encouraged  out  here,   and   are   asking  and 

receiving  definite  blessings   for  this   hungry  and  thirsty  land. 

We  are  fully  expecting  at  least  one  hundred  fresh  labourers  to 
arrive  in  China  in  1887.^ 

It  was  the  first  suggestion  of  the  Hundred.  Ardent  as 
he  was  and  full  of  confidence  in  God,  he  kept  the  matter  to 
the  front  on  his  return  to  Shanghai  and  in  the  Council 
Meetings,  but  Mr.  Taylor  seems  at  first  to  have  shared  the 
general  impression  that  this  was  going  rather  too  fast.  A 
hundred  new  workers  in  one  year,  when  the  entire  staff  of 
the  Mission  was  less  than  twice  that  number — why,  even  if 
the  men  and  women  were  forthcoming,  think  of  the  addi- 
tional expenditure  involved  ! 

"  Yes,"  urged  the  Deputy  Director,  unperturbed,  *'  but 
with  needs  so  great  how  can  we  ask  for  less  ?  *' 

That  was  difficult  to  answer ;  for  fifty  central  stations 
and  many  out -stations  in  which  resident  missionaries  were 
needed,  not  to  speak  of  China  open  from  end  to  end,  made  a 
hundred  new  workers  even  in  one  year  seem  but  a  small 
number. 

And  so,  little  by  little,  they  were  led  on,  until,  in  the 
Council  Meetings,  such  was  the  atmosphere  of  faith  and 
prayer  that  the  thought  could  strike  root.  Begun  with 
God,  it  could  not  fail  to  be  taken  up  by  hearts  so  truly 
waiting  upon  Him  ;  and  before  leaving  An-king  Mr.  Taylor 
was  writing  home  quite  naturally  : 

We  are  praying  for  one  hundred  new  missionaries  in  1887. 
The  Lord  help  in  the  selection  and  provide  the  means. 

A  little  later  at  Ta-ku-tang,  amid  the  quiet  of  lake  and 
mountains,  he  was  working  at  accounts,  etc.,  with  a  view  to 
leaving  for  England  as  soon  as  possible,  when  an  incident 
occurred  that  fanned  expectancy  to  a  flame.  Mr.  Taylor 
was  dictating  to  his  secretary,  walking  up  and  down  the 
room  as  was  his  wont,  when  he  repeated  in  one  of  his  letters 
what  he  had  written  above  :    "  We  are  praying  for  and 

*  In  a  letter  to  Mrs.  Hudson  Taylor  from  Tai-yuan-fu,  Sept.  16,  1886. 


THE  HUNDRED  423 

expecting  a  hundred  new  missionaries  to  come  out  in  1887." 
Did  he  really  mean  it  ?  Mr.  Stevenson  saw  the  secretary, 
a  young  man  who  was  himself  to  be  one  of  the  Hundred, 
look  up  with  an  incredulous  smile.  "  If  the  Lord  should 
open  windows  in  heaven,"  that  look  seemed  to  say,  "  then 
might  this  thing  be."  Mr.  Taylor  saw  it  too,  and  immedi- 
ately caught  fire. 

"  After  that,  he  went  beyond  me  altogether,"  recalled  Mr. 
Stevenson.  "  Never  shall  I  forget  the  conviction  with  which 
he  said : 

"  '  If  you  showed  me  a  photograph  of  the  whole  hundred, 
taken  in  China,  I  could  not  be  more  sure  than  I  am  now.' 

"  Then  I  sent  out  a  little  shp  throughout  the  Mission  :  '  Will 
you  put  down  your  name  to  pray  for  the  Hundred  ?  '  and  cabled 
to  London,  with  Mr.  Taylor's  permission  :  *  Praying  for  a  hundred 
new  missionaries  in  1887.'  " 

Thus  the  step  was  taken,  and  the  Mission  committed  to  a 
programme  that  might  well  have  startled  even  its  nearest 
friends.  Yet  it  was  in  no  spirit  of  rashness  or  merely  human 
energy.  Far  too  deeply  had  Mr.  Taylor  learned  the  lessons 
of  experience  to  embark  upon  such  an  enterprise  without 
the  assurance  that  he  was  being  led  of  God,  without  much 
forethought  as  well  as  faith,  and  the  determination  to  see  it 
through  by  unremitting  toil  no  less  than  unceasing  prayer. . 

"  The  accepting  and  sending  out  of  the  Hundred,"  he  wrote 
to  Mrs.  Taylor  early  in  December,  "  will  require  no  small  amount 
of  work,  but  the  Lord  wiU  give  strength  ;  and  no  little  wisdom, 
but  the  Lord  will  guide.  There  is  all-sufficiency  in  Him,  is  there 
not  ?  .  .  .  We  are  ready  to  receive  say  fifty  at  once,  and  shall 
be  ready  for  others  shortly,  D.V.  We  sing  a  httle  prayer  at 
each  meal : 

Oh  send  the  hundred  workers,  Lord, 

Those  of  Thy  heart  and  mind  and  choice. 

To  tell  Thy  love  both  far  and  wide — 
So  shall  we  praise  Thee  and  rejoice  : 

And  above  the  rest  this  note  shall  swell, 

M}^  Jesus  hath  done  all  things  v/ell." 

To  an  inner  circle  of  friends  he  also  wrote  in  December : 

WiU  you  help  us  in  prayer  as  often  as  you  can  ?  This  move- 
ment will  involve  great  responsibility  and  much  toil,  time,  and 


424         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

expense.  Some  of  us  are  hoping  that  His  "  exceeding  abundantly  " 
may  mean  fifty  or  sixty  more  missionaries  besides  the  hundred 
for  whom  we  are  asking.  Now  I  need  not  say  that  that  must 
mean  a  good  deal  more  than  praying.  Much  correspondence 
about  the  candidates  will  be  needed  ;  much  prayer  and  thought 
about  which  of  them  to  accept  and  which  to  decline.  The  labour 
of  arranging  for  and  attending  farewell  meetings,  to  secure  the 
prayers  of  at  least  six  congregations  for  each  party  that  comes 
out,  will  be  great.  Outfits  and  passages  for  a  hundred  people 
will  come  to  £5500,  and  travelling  expenses  for  many  of  them 
from  distant  parts  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  as  well  as  the 
cost  of  board  in  London,  will  materially  add  to  this  sum.  The 
money,  much  of  it,  will  come  to  our  office  at  Pyrland  Road  in 
small  gifts,  each  calling  for  a  letter  of  thanks,  which  will  involve  ^ 
additional  help  in  correspondence,  etc.  So  we  shall  have  much' 
need  of  Divine  guidance,  help,  and  strength,  all  of  which  He  will 
supply,  but  for  which  He  wUl  be  enquired  of. 

Am  I  wrong  then  in  asking  your  prayers  for  myself  and  for 
those  who  will  be  associated  with  me  in  this  important  work  ? 
As  I  look  forward  in  faith  and  think  of  the  "  mUing,  skilful " 
men  and  women  who  are  coming — of  the  barren  fields  they  will 
help  to  till,  of  the  souls  they  will  be  the  means  of  saving,  and 
above  all  of  the  joy  of  our  Redeemer  in  this  movement  and  its 
widespread  issues — ^my  heart  is  very  glad,  and  I  think  yours 
will  be  too. 

It  was  this  vision,  this  spirit  of  joy  that  upheld  him 
through  all  the  wonderful  and  strenuous  days  of  1887.  But 
what  a  year  it  was  !  Preceded  by  two  days  of  prayer  because 
one  was  not  enough,^  it  ended  with  the  last  party  of  the 
Hundred  on  their  way  to  China — all  the  work  accomplished, 
all  expenses  met — and  with  a  fulness  of  blessing  that  was 
spreading  and  to  spread  in  ever-widening  circles. 

The  story  of  the  Hundred  has  often  been  told — it  belongs 
to  no  one  mission  or  land.  We  know  how,  with  growing 
courage,  Mr.  Taylor  and  those  associated  with  him  were  led 
to  pray  for  ten  thousand  pounds  of  additional  income,  as 
necessary  to  meet  the  increased  expenses  ;  and  that  it  might 
be  given  in  large  gifts,  so  that  the  home  staff  should  not  be 

*  "  To-morrow  and  the  day  after  we  give  to  waiting  on  God  for  bless- 
ing," he  wrote  to  Mrs.  Taylor  on  December  29.  "  W^e  need  two  days 
at  least,  this  year.  We  have  much  to  praise  for,  much  to  expect ;  but 
Satan  will  be  busy,  and  we  must  be  prepared  by  living  near  to  God,  by 
putting  on  the  whole  armour  of  God." 


THE  HUNDRED  425 

overwhelmed  with  correspondence.  We  know  that  np 
(ewer  than  six  hundred  men  and  women  offered  themselves 
,to  the  Mission  that  year  for  service  in  China;  that  one 
hundred  and  two,  to  be  exact,  were  sent  out ;  and  that  not 
ten  but  eleven  thousand  pounds  of  extra  income  was  re- 
ceived, no  appeal  having  been  made  for  financial  help. 
And  we  know,  most  wonderful  perhaps  of  all,  how  definite 
-prayer_was  answered  as  to  the  very  form  in  which  the  money 
came  ;  the  whole  being  received  in  just  eleven  gifts,  involving 
little  or  no  extra  work  to  the  office  staff  of  the  Mission. 
But  such  a  story  bears  retelling,  especially  from  Mr.  Taylor's 
letters,  to  the  glory  not  of  man  or  methods,  but  of  God. 

"  We  want  workers,  not  loiterers,"  was  one  of  the  first 
things  he  wrote  after  his  return  to  England,  and  what  an 
example  he  set  by  his  own  unparalleled  labours  throughout 
the  year !  Ever5rwhere  the  friends  of  the  Mission  had 
heard  of  the  prayer  and  expectation  with  which  he  had 
come  home,  and  invitations  to  speak  in  meetings  poured  in 
from  many  parts  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  With  brief 
intervals  for  correspondence  and  Council  Meetings,  Mr. 
Taylor  was  travelling  and  speaking  all  the  time.  Yet  he 
seemed  to  be  interviewing  candidates  all  the  time  ;  writing 
letters — China  letters,  home  letters,  endless  letters — all  the 
time  ;  giving  himself  to  prayer,  and  well  he  might ;  prayer 
and  Bible  study  for  the  feeding  of  his  own  soul  and  of  the 
multitudes  to  whom  he  ministered ;  prayer  over  all  the 
problems  of  the  work  and  the  needs  of  every  member  of 
the  Mission. 

The  number  of  letters  he  wrote  during  the  year  would  be 
incredible,  but  for  the  details  as  to  each  one  recorded  in  his 
correspondence  index.  They  averaged  thirteen  or  fourteen 
for  every  day  of  the  twelve  months,  Sundays  excepted  ;  and 
as  he  often  had  two,  three,  and  four  meetings  a  day,  as  well 
as  travelling,  it  is  no  wonder  one  comes  upon  pages  that  tell 
of  thirty  or  forty  letters  written  within  twenty-four  hours. 
And  these  were  not  business  notes,  or  mainly  to  do  with  his 
programme  of  meetings.  They  were  many  of  them  long, 
thoughtful  letters  to  Mr.  Stevenson  about  the  direction  of 
affairs  in  China  ;  answers  to  correspondence  sent  on  to  him 


426         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

from  the  field,  which  required  careful  consideration ;  and 
replies  to  people  who  consulted  him  about  spiritual  and 
other  difficulties,  having  been  helped  through  the  meetings. 
Three  visits  to  Ireland  and  four  to  Scotland,  an  extensive 
campaign  with  his  beloved  friend,  Mr.  Reginald  Radcliff, 
and  Mr.  George  Clarke,  on  the  subject  of  World  Evangelisa- 
tion, and  attendance  at  no  fewer  than  twenty  conventions 
for  the  deepening  of  spiritual  life,  in  most  of  which  Mr. 
Taylor  spoke  repeatedly,  were  but  part  of  his  outward 
activities.  Besides  these  there  were  farewell  meetings  in 
churches  of  all  denominations,  as  party  after  party  went  out, 
and  frequent  addresses  in  drawing-rooms  or  from  the  pulpit 
to  the  circles  the  young  missionaries  represented.  Then  how 
much  it  meant  merely  to  interview  the  candidates  !  So 
busy  was  the  Council  with  those  who  came  before  them  in 
London,  that  they  had  occasionally  to  meet  twice  and  three 
times  a  week,  to  get  through  the  work. 

'*  We  were  in  Glasgow  last  week,"  wrote  Mrs.  Taylor  in 
March,  "  holding  one,  two,  or  three  meetings  every  day  ;  and 
my  husband  had  conversations  with  forty  candidates." 

And  in  Edinburgh,  at  the  very  time  she  was  writing,  he  was 
dealing  with  twenty  more.  At  one  meeting  in  the  Scottish 
capital,  so  deep  was  the  interest  that  a  hundred  and  twenty 
people  definitely  offered  themselves  for  foreign  missionary 
work,  to  go  or  stay  as  God  might  lead  ;  and  at  the  close  of  a 
conference  in  the  south  of  England,  half  the  audience  that 
had  filled  the  Corn  Exchange  accompanied  Mr.  Taylor  to  the 
station,  singing  missionary  hymns  and  in  other  ways  ex- 
pressing sympathy. 

At  Pyrland  Road,  meanwhile,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Broomhall 
were  no  less  busy  and  encouraged.  Invited  to  breakfast 
with  a  friend  in  London  early  in  the  year,  Mr.  Broomhall 
found  himself  one  of  several  guests  who  had  at  heart  the 
interests  of  the  kingdom  of  God.  Conversation  turning  on 
the  C.I.M.,  Mr.  Broomhall  took  from  his  pocket  a  letter 
which  had  touched  him  deeply.  It  was  from  a  poor  widow 
in  Scotland  who,  with  only  a  few  shillings  a  week  to  hve 
upon,  frequently  sent  gifts  for  the  work  in  China.  She  could 
do  without  meat,  she  said,  but  the  heathen  could  not  do 


THE  HUNDRED  427 

without  the  Gospel.  Very  real  was  the  self-denial  that  lay 
behind  the  simple  words,  and  very  real  the  prayers  with 
which  the  modest  gifts  were  accompanied.  This  it  was, 
doubtless,  that  led  to  results  from  that  letter  far  beyond 
anything  the  writer  can  have  asked  or  thought. 

At  the  close  of  the  meal,  the  host  said  that  all  he  had 
ever  given  to  the  work  of  God  (and  he  had  given  much)  had 
never  cost  him  a  mutton-chop.  His  interest  had  been 
chiefly  in  home  missions,  but  he  wanted  now  to  forward  the 
evangelisation  of  China.  And  to  Mr.  BroomhalFs  surprise, 
he  then  and  there  promised  five  hundred  pounds  for  the  work 
of  the  C.I.M.  A  little  further  conversation  round  the  table 
led  to  similar  promises  from  three  of  the  guests,  while  another 
who  had  been  unable  to  come,  upon  hearing  what  had  tran- 
spired, made  up  the  sum  to  two  thousand  five  hundred 
pounds.  Just  as  in  connection  with  the  Seventy,  the  Lord 
was  encouraging  the  home  leaders  of  the  mission,  giving 
them  practical  evidence  that  the  prayer  daily  ascending  in 
China  from  so  many  hearts  was  in  line  with  His  purpose. 

And  they  must  surely  have  needed  such  encouragement ; 
for  the  strain  of  the  year  at  Pyrland  Road  was  unremitting 
and  very  heavy.  No  one  rejoiced  more  in  the  forward 
movement  and  all  it  meant  for  dark  hearts  and  lives  in  China 
than  the  Mother  of  the  mission-house,  upon  whom  came  the 
burden  of  receiving  and  caring  for  the  candidates.  How  it 
was  ever  done  in  that  little  home,  with  seven  or  eight  of  her 
own  children  still  in  the  family  circle,  remains  a  mystery. 
Nothing  but  the  early  morning  hour,  when  Mrs.  Broomhall 
found  her  strength  daily  renewed  in  fellowship  with  God, 
could  have  carried  her  through,  making  her  life  the  blessing 
it  was  to  all  who  came  and  went.  The  noon  meeting  that 
gathered  the  busy  household  for  prayer  she  never  failed  to 
make  the  most  of,  and  who  shall  say  how  much  the  spirit 
thus  maintained  had  to  do  with  the  rising  tide  of  blessing  ? 

Great  was  the  joy  when  on  Mr.  Taylor's  birthday,  just 
before  the  Annual  Meetings,^  a  cable  from  Shanghai  brought 

*  Mr.  Taylor  completed  his  fifty-fifth  year  on  May  21,  1887,  and  the 
26th  of  the  same  month  brought  the  anniversary  of  the  saiUng  of  the 
Lammermuir,  twenty-one  years  previously. 


428         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

news  of  large  ingatherings.  In  Pastor  Hsi's  district  two 
hundred  and  twenty-six  had  been  baptized  at  the  spring 
conference,  which  proved  a  time  of  great  encouragement. 
A  letter  also  from  Mr.  Berger  came  as  a  token  for  good, 
bringing  a  gift  of  five  hundred  pounds — the  second  or  third 
he  had  given — toward  the  outgoing  Hundred. 

'*  I  hope  this  note  will  reach  you  on  the  morning  of  the  26th," 
he  wrote.  "  You  will  be  very  full  of  praise  to  God,  I  am  sure, 
for  all  He  has  condescended  to  do  through  the  China  Inland 
Mission  during  the  past  twenty-one  years.  May  all  the  glory 
be  given  to  Him  to  Whom  alone  it  is  due. 

"  Let  me  share  again  in  the  prosperity  of  the  blessed  work 
by  sending  £500  toward  the  amount  necessary  for  sending  out 
the  hundred  or  more  labourers  this  year.  *  To  the  Lord  ' — not 
the  tithes  only,  but  ourselves,  our  aU  !  The  exchange  is  al- 
together in  our  favour :  our  all,  a  little  handful,  versus  God's 
all,  illimitable  riches  of  every  kind  !  May  grace  be  poured  into 
your  lips  and  heart  on  Thursday  in  an  especial  manner." 

No  wonder  Mr.  Taylor  began  his  address  at  the  Anni- 
versary Meetings  by  recalling  the  quaint  saying  of  a  well- 
known  coloured  evangelist :  "When  God  does  anything, 
He  does  it  handsome  "  1  That  very  morning  another  cable 
had  been  received  from  China,  announcing  a  donation  of  a 
thousand  pounds  toward  the  expenses  of  the  Hundred — 
fifty-four  of  whom  were  already  either  sent  out  or  accepted. 
Up  to  that  time  all  who  were  ready  among  the  accepted 
candidates  had  gone  forward,  and  Mr.  Taylor  could  with 
confidence  say  : 

God  is,  in  this  matter  of  funds,  giving  us  signs  that  He  is 
working  with  us  ;  that  this  work  is  pleasing  to  Him,  and  that 
therefore  He  is  prospering  it.  He  will  give  the  whole  Hundred, 
and  He  will  provide  for  them. 

Speaking  of  the  twenty-one  years  of  "  goodness  and 
mercy  "  they  were  that  day  commemorating,  and  of  the 
way  in  which  financial  needs  had  been  supplied,  he  con- 
tinued : 

The  Lord  is  always  faithful.  .  .  .  People  say,  **  Lord,  in- 
crease our  faith."  Did  not  the  Lord  rebuke  His  disciples  for 
that  prayer  ?     It  is  not  great  faith  you  need,  He  said,  in  effect. 


THE  HUNDRED  429 

but  faith  in  a  great  God.     Though  your  faith  were  small  as  a    — 
grain  of  mustard-seed,  it  would  suffice  to  remove  mountains.    '^' 
^"Sl^e  need  a  faith  that  rests  on  a  great  God,  and  expects  Him  to 
keep  His  own  word  and  to  do  just  as  He  has  promised. 

Now,  we  have  been  led  to  pray  for  a  hundred  new  workers 
this  year.  We  have  the  sure  word,  "  Whatsoever  ye  shall  ask 
in  My  name,  I  will  do  it,  that  the  Father  may  be  glorified  in  the 
Son."  Resting  on  this  promise,  it  would  not  have  added  to  our 
confidence  one  whit  if,  when  we  began  to  pray  in  November, 
my  dear  brother-in-law,  Mr.  Broomhall,  had  sent  me  out  a  printed 
list  of  a  hundred  accepted  candidates.  We  had  been  spending' 
some  days  in  fasting  and  prayer  for  guidance  and  blessing  before 
the  thought  was  suggested  to  our  minds.  We  began  the  matter/ 
aright,  with  God,  and  we  are  quite  sure  that  we  shall  end  aright!^ 
It  is  a  great  joy  to  know  that  thirty-one  of  the  Hundred  are 
already  in  China,  but  it  is  a  greater  joy  to  know  that  more  than 
a  hundred  of  our  workers  in  China  are  banded  together  in  daily 
pleading  with  God  to  send  out  the  whole  Hundred. 

And  by  the  Hundred  we  mean  one  of  God's  "  handsome  " 
hundreds  !  .  .  .  Whether  He  will  give  His  "  exceeding  abun- 
dantly "  by  sending  us  more  than  a  literal  hundred,  or 
whether  by  stirring  up  other  branches  of  the  Church  to  send 
many  hundreds,  which  I  should  greatly  prefer,  or  by  awakening 
missionary  enthusiasm  all  over  the  Church  and  blessing  the 
whole  world  through  it,  I  do  not  know.  I  hope  that  He  will 
answer  prayer  in  all  these  ways  ;  but  sure  I  am  that  God  will 
do  it  "  handsome."  .  .  . 

I  do  want  you,  dear  Friends,  to  realise  this  principle  of 
working  with  God  and  asking  Him  for  everything.  If  the  work  is 
jat^ the  command  of  God,  then  we  can  go  to  Him  in  full  confidence 
for  workers  ;  and  when  God  gives  the  workers,  we  can  go  to  Him 
for' means  to  supply  their  needs.  We  always  accept  a  suitable' 
worker,  whether  we  have  funds  or  not.  Then  we  often  say,  - 
"  Now,  dear  Friend,  your  first  work  will  be  to  join  us  in  praying 
for  money  to  send  you  to  China." 

As  soon  as  there  is  money  enough,  the  time  of  the  year  and 
other  circumstances  being  suitable,  the  friend  goes  out.  We  do 
not  wait  until  there  is  a  remittance  in  hand  to  give  him  when  he 
gets  there.  The  Lord  wiU  provide  in  the  meanwhile,  and  the 
money  wiU  be  wired  to  China  in  time  to  supply  his  wants.  .  .  . 
Let  us  see  to  it  that  we  keep  God  before  our  eyes  ;  that  we  walk 
Jn  Hisways,  and  seek  to  please  and  glorify  Him  in  everything, 
great  "and  small.  '  Depend  upon  it,  God's  work,  done  in  God's 
way,  will  never, lack  God's  supplies.  .  .  } 

—=^ =^ — r:i;___2__:L__ . __ s  ,  ^ 

1  "  I^  am  far  more  afraid  of  unconsecrated  money  than  of  no  money     -l 


430         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

And  now,  if  this  principle  of  taking  everything  to  God  and 

f  accepting  everything  from  God  is  a  true  one — and  I  think  the 

(  experience  of  the  China  Inland  Mission  proves  that  it  is — ought 

we  not  to  bring  it  to  bear  more  and  more  in  daily  ^ife  ?     The 

Lord's  will  is  that  His  people  should  be  an  ;Unburdened  people^, 

fully  supplied,' strong,,' healthy  )and  happy.  .  .  .  Shall  we  not 

,  determine  to  be  "  careful  for'  nothing,   but  in  everything  by 

\       prayer  and  supplication  with  thanksgiving"  bring  those  things 

*     *  that  would  become  burdens  or  anxieties  to  God  in  prayer,  and 

live  in  His  perfect  peace  ? 

It  can  well  be  understood  that  this  simple  dealing  with 
realities  sent  a  thrill  to  the  heart  of  the  home  churches 
wherever  the  prayer  for  the  Hundred  became  known.  To 
many  it  seemed  to  shed  new  light  upon  the  problems  of  life, 
and  to  reveal  a  new,  almost  undreamed-of  power  in  dealing 
with  them. 

"  I  have  not  knowTi  what  anxiety  is  since  the  Lord  taught 
me  that  the  work  is  His,"  was  Mr.  Taylor's  testimony  wherever 
he  went.  "  My  great  business  in  life  is  to  please  God.  Walking 
with  Him  in  the  light,  I  never  feel  a  burden." 

- -'-I  have  had  conversations  with  three  people,"  wrote  a 
friend  from  Ireland,  "all  of  them  Christians,  who  seem  to  have 
received  a  new  thought  at  your  meetings — as  if  God  really 
means  what  He  says  when  He  gives  us  His  promises.  If  you 
could  return  to  Waterford  and  have,  say,  two  evening  meetings 
for  preaching  the  Gospel,  and  two  mid-day  meetings  to  persuade 
Christians  that  God  does  mean  aU  He  says  in  His  promises,  I 
believe  it  would  do  eternal  good." 

This  was  the  burden  of  his  message  everywhere,  backed 
by  a  quiet  simplicity  and  joy  in  the  Lord  which  could  not 
but  carry  conviction. 

"  I  must  close  and  have  a  sleep,  or  I  shall  fail  at  the  meeting 
>:|^:^o-night  in  brightness,"  he  wrote  to  Mrs.  Taylor  from  Scotland. 
•      *"!  do  want  to  shine  for  Jesus,  Jesus  only  !  " 

And    shine   he    did,    though    the    pressure    of    work   was 
tremendous. 


^ 


at  all,"  Mr,  Taylor  said  again  a  few  weeks  later.     "  The  Lord  did  not 

tell  His  disciples  to  carry  loads  of  provisions  into  the  wilderness.     There 

>^  was  a  lad  there  with  five  barley  loaves  and  two  fishes  :    it  was  enough. 

■   The  Lord  wants  His  people  to  be,  not  rich,  but  in  full  fellowship  with  Him 

\  Who  is  rich,     Why,  as  Christians,  we  are  all  children  of  a  King  !  " 

\ 


THE  HUNDRED  431 

"  It  was  a  mighty  message  last  night,"  Mrs.  Taylor  heard 
from  her  husband's  secretary  on  the  same  visit.  "  Many  were 
broken  down,  to  be  Hfted  up  of  God.  After  a  precious  exposi- 
tion of  Zeph.  iii.,  Mr.  Taylor  spoke  very  simply  and  very  straight 
to  the  heart  on  '  Trusting  God.'  He  did  not  finish  till  close  on 
9  P.M.,  but  you  could  have  heard  any  ordinary  clock  tick  most 
of  the  time."  ^ 

"  The  rush  of  work  is  very  great,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  himself 
at  midsummer.  "  Well,  praise  the  Lord,  He  helps  me  through 
day  by  day,  and  fills  one's  heart  with  blessing  and  one's  lips 
with  praise." 

In  China,  meanwhile,  the  arrival  of  party  after  party 
was  causing  no  little  thanksgiving.  The  new  organisation 
was  working  well,  the  training  homes  especially  proving  of 
incalculable  value.  Miss  Murray  at  Yang-chow  and  Mr. 
Bailer  at  An-king  were  bringing  helpful,  encouraging  influ- 
ences to  bear  on  the  new  arrivals,  caring  for  their  health  and 
spiritual  life,  as  well  as  facilitating  their  studies.  The 
advice  they  were  able  to  give  from  personal  observation  was 
invaluable  also  to  Mr.  Stevenson,  when  the  time  came  for 
allocating  young  workers  to  their  future  stations. 

It  was  about  the  beginning  of  November,  when  Mr. 
Taylor  had  the  joy  of  announcing  to  the  friends  of  the 
Mission  that  their  prayers  were  fully  answered — all  the 
Hundred  having  been  given  and  the  funds  supplied  for  their 
passages  to  China.  Many  were  still  volunteering,  while 
Mr.  Taylor's  third  visit  to  Ireland  and  his  fourth  to  Scotland 
were  planned  but  not  yet  carried  out.  In  all  these  later 
meetings,  therefore,  he  had  to  tell  of  the  response  of  a 
faithful  God  to  the  prayers  of  His  believing  people,  and  of 
the  way  in  which  His  "  exceeding  abundantly  *'  was  being 
given.^    Of  this  he  wrote  to  Mr.  Stevenson  : 

Nov.  II  :  ...  Our  meetings  are  evidently  a  blessing  to  the 
Church  of  God,  the  most  grateful  testimonies  to  spiritual  refresh- 

*  Fifteen  hundred  people  were  present  on  that  occasion  in  the  Town 
Hall  at  Motherwell,  near  Glasgow. 

2  One  of  the  valuable  workers  over  and  above  the  Hundred,  given  to 
the  Mission  toward  the  close  of  this  year,  was  the  Rev.  E.  O.  WilUams, 
Vicar  of  St.  Stephen's,  Leeds.  He  and  Mrs.  Wilhams  gladly  gave  up  their 
important  sphere,  to  go  with  their  young  children  to  the  far  west  of  China 
— the  district  the  Rev.  W.  Cassels  was  opening  up,  in  which  were  millions 
destitute  of  the  Word  of  Life. 


432         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

ment  being  given  at  almost  every  place  we  visit.  New  candidates 
continue  to  come  forward,  and  I  see  we  cannot  get  one  hundred 
without  getting  two  from  the  Lord.  Many  of  those  who  cannot 
possibly  go  this  year  will  be  ready  to  do  so  before  long. 

And  a  month  later  : 

Dec.  8 :  .  .  .  With  the  sailing  of  the  ladies  to-day,  eighty- 
eight  have  left  us  for  China :  fourteen  others  sail  on  the  15th 
and  29th  respectively.^ 

You  must  continue  very  earnestly  in  prayer,  and  secure  the 
prayers  of  our  friends  generally,  that  God  will  magnify  His  Name 
and  adequately  sustain  the  work  with  funds.  Nothing  is  clearer 
to  me  than  that  in  obtaining  a  hundred  for  this  year  we  have 
obtained  at  least  a  second  hundred.  To  send  them  out  and 
sustain  them  will  require  another  ten  thousand  pounds  of  addi- 
tional income  ;  and  in  times  like  these  it  is  a  tremendous  rise 
from  a  little  over  twenty  to  forty  thousand  pounds  annually. 
One  is  so  glad  that  God  has  Himself  asked  the  question,  "  Is 
anything  too  hard  for  the  Lord  ?  "  But  we  must  not  forget 
that  He  will  "  be  enquired  of  by  the  house  of  Israel,  to  do  it 
for  them."  If  we  get  less  prayerful  about  funds,  we  shall  soon 
get  sorely  tried  about  funds.  Thank  God,  there  is  no  need  to 
be  less  prayerful.  We  can  well  afford  to  be  more  prayerful, 
and  to  God  be  the  glory.^ 

Every  day  I  feel  more  and  more  thankful  to  God  for  giving 
you  to  us,  and  for  giving  you  such  general  acceptance.  No 
human  prescience  or  wisdom  is  sufficient  for  your  position  ; 
but  so  long  as  you  continue  to  seek  His  guidance  in  every  matter, 
and  in  the  midst  of  the  pressure  of  work  take  time  to  be  holy, 

*  "  Six  times  that  number  offered,"  wrote  Mr.  Eugene  Stock  in  the 
History  of  the  Church  Missionary  Society,  "  but  the  Council,  faithful  to 
its  principles,  declined  to  lower  the  standard,  and  rejected  five-sixths  of 
the  applicants  ;  yet  the  exact  number  of  one  hundred — not  ninety-nine 
nor  a  hundred  and  one,  but  one  hundred — actually  sailed  within  the 
year.  (This  did  not  include  two  Associates, — Ed.)  Still  more  significant 
of  God's  blessing  is  the  fact  that,  seven  years  later,  seventy-eight  of  the 
Hundred  were  still  on  the  C.I.M.  staff  ;  and  of  the  remainder,  five  had 
died,  and  most  of  the  others  were  still  labouring  in  China,  though  in  other 
connections.  Does  the  whole  history  of  Missions  afford  quite  a  parallel 
to  this  ?  " 

2  In  his  New  Year's  greeting  to  the  members  of  the  now  greatly  enlarged 
Mission  (Jan.  1888)  Mr.  Taylor  said  in  this  connection:  "  Let  us  never 
forget  that,  if  we  make  no  appeal  to  man,  we  need  very,  very  definitely 
to  continue  our  appeal  to  God.  A  God-given,  God-guided,  spiritual  im- 
pulse is  expressed  in  every  donation  we  receive  ;  and  this,  which  makes 
our  work  peculiarly  blessed,  will  always  keep  us  peculiarly  dependent 
upon  Him.  How  can  we  sufi&ciently  praise  Him  for  this  happy  position, 
this  necessity  of  trustfulness  ?  "  '"" 


THE  HUNDRED  433 

and  time  to  pray  for  the  workers,  the  Lord  will  continue  to  use 
and  bless  you. 

Two  days  before  the  close  of  the  year  Mr.  Taylor  returned 
to  London,  the  great  work  accomplished  which,  though 
wrought  in  faith  and  deep  heart-rest,  had  taxed  both  him 
and  those  associated  with  him  to  the  utmost. 

"  I  have  assured  the  friends,"  he  wrote  in  his  last  letter  of 
the  year  to  Mr.  Stevenson,  "  that  there  will  be  a  big  Hallelujah 
when  they,  the  crowning  party  of  the  Hundred,  reach  Shanghai ! 
It  is  not  more  than  we  expected  God  to  do  for  us,  but  it  is  very 
blessed ;  and  to  see  that  God  does  answer,  in  great  things  as 
well  as  small,  the  prayers  of  those  who  put  their  trust  in  Him 
will  strengthen  the  faith  of  multitudes." 

Twelve  months  previously  a  veteran  missionary  in 
Shanghai  had  said  to  Mr.  Taylor,  then  on  the  point  of 
leaving  for  home  : 

"  I  am  delighted  to  hear  that  you  are  praying  for  large 
reinforcements.  You  will  not  get  a  hundred,  of  course, 
within  the  year ;  but  you  will  get  many  more  than  if  you 
did  not  ask  for  them." 

Thanking  him  for  his  kindly  interest  Mr.  Taylor  replied  : 
"  We  have  the  joy  beforehand ;  but  I  feel  sure  that,  if 
spared,  you  will  share  it  in  welcoming  the  last  of  the  Hundred 
to  China." 

And  so  it  proved.  For  among  those  who  gathered  to 
receive  that  last  party  with  thanksgiving,  no  one  was  more 
sympathetic  than  the  white-headed  saint  who  a  few  weeks 
later  was  called  to  his  reward. 


2  F 


PART  VII 
WIDER  MINISTRY 

1888-1895.    Aet.  56-63. 

ChaPo  30.  Few  know  what  is  betwixt  Christ  and  Me 

31.  The  Cross  does  not  get  Comfortable. 

32.  With  Wings  as  Eagles. 

33.  To  every  Creature. 

34.  The  Coming  Thousand. 

35.  Deepening  the  Channels. 

36.  The  Forward  Movement. 


*•  Among  the  different  ways  of  helping  in  the  present  world 
crisis,  there  is  none  which  will  compare  in  vital  importance  with 
that  of  wielding  the  force  of  prayer.  More  important  than  the  most 
earnest  thinking  upon  a  problem,  more  important  than  a  personal 
interview  to  influence  an  individual,  more  important  than  addressing 
and  swaying  an  audience — far  more  important  than  these  and  all 
other  forms  of  activity  is  the  act  of  coming  into  vital  communion 
with  God.  Those  who  spend  enough  time  in  actual  communion 
with  God  to  become  really  conscious  of  their  absolute  dependence 
on  Him,  shall  change  the  mere  energy  of  the  flesh  for  the  power 
of  God.  .  .  . 

"It  is  indeed  true  that  he  that  saveth  his  time  from  prayer 
shall  lose  it.  And  he  that  loseth  his  time,  for  communion  with  God, 
^  shall  find  it  again  in  added  blessing  and  power  and  fruitfulness." — 
John  R.  Mott. 

"  Wishes,  cares,  anxieties  prepare  the  heart  for  prayer,  but  are 
not  prayer  until  they  are  converted  into  direct  address,  supplication, 
/      and  cry  unto  God." — Adolph  Saphir. 

"  The  promises  are  not  given  to  our  wants,  but  to  our  petitions. " 
— ^Whateley. 


CHAPTER  XXX 

FEW   KNOW  WHAT   IS   BETWIXT  CHRIST  AND   ME 

1887-1888.     Aet.  55-56. 

Among  many  visitors  to  Pyrland  Road  toward  the  close  of 
the  year  of  the  Hundred  came  one  who  in  a  special  way  was 
to  be  identified  with  the  enlargement  of  Mr.  Taylor's  in- 
fluence and  the  sphere  of  the  Mission.  Finding  Mr.  Taylor 
still  away  in  Scotland,  he  took  a  room  near  by,  and  quietly 
gave  himself  to  studying  the  work  of  which  he  had  heard 
enough  to  bring  him  across  the  Atlantic.  In  spite  of  the 
pressure  of  those  days,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Broomhall  welcomed 
the  young  stranger  almost  as  a  member  of  their  household, 
giving  him  every  opportunity  to  become  acquainted  with 
the  inner  life  of  the  Mission,  and  all  he  saw  did  but  deepen, 
by  the  blessing  of  God,  the  desire  with  which  he  had  come. 
Of  this  he  was  writing  to  Mr.  Taylor  in  the  middle  of 
December  (1887)  : 

About  five  months  ago  I  began  correspondence  with  Mr. 
Broomhall  from  America,  my  home,  concerning  going  to  China. 
As  the  result  of  that  correspondence  I  am  now  at  Pyrland  Road, 
and  have  been  here  long  enough  to  satisfy  myself  concerning 
the  spiritual  standing  of  the  China  Inland  Mission,  and  to  con- 
firm my  own  desire  of  connecting  myself  with  it.  .  .  .  But  I 
came  to  London  with  a  larger  purpose  in  view.  ...  It  has  been 
laid  on  my  heart  for  many  months  past  to  talk  with  you  and 
Mr.  Broomhall  about  the  estabUshment  of  an  American  Council 
that  might  work  as  a  feeder  of  men  and  money  for  China,  on 
the  same  principles  of  faith  that  have  made  the  China  Inland 
Mission  so  favourably  known.  Meeting  Mr.  Forman  in  Glasgow 
I  found  that  he,  too,  had  been  praying  for  something  of  the  same 

437 


438         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

kind  for  a  long  time,  and  that  Mr.  Wilder,  his  companion,  had 
also  had  the  matter  laid  on  his  heart. 

From  his  meetings  in  Scotland,  bringing  to  a  successful 
issue  the  work  of  that  memorable  year,  Mr.  Taylor  returned 
just  as  simple,  quiet,  natural  as  ever,  to  banish  in  a  moment 
any  apprehension  his  visitor  had  felt  as  to  the  interview. 
A  little  note  from  Glasgow,  "  fragrant  with  the  love  of  Christ," 
had  prepared  the  way  for  what  proved  an  important  con- 
versation. 

'*  Fear  did  indeed  vanish  on  that  occasion,"  wrote  Mr.  Henry 
W.  Frost,  "for  I  found  him  at  leisure  from  himself,  and  most 
gentle  and  kind.  From  that  hour  my  heart  was  knit  to  this 
beloved  servant  of  God  in  unalterable  devotion." 

But  though  their  intercourse  resulted  in  an  abiding 
friendship,  it  seemed  to  the  one  who  was  building  much 
upon  it  to  have  failed  in  its  object.  His  interest  in  the 
Mission  was  warmly  appreciated  and  his  desire  to  work  with 
it  welcomed,  but  Mr.  Taylor  could  not  see  his  way  to  the 
establishment  of  an  American  branch.  It  would  be,  he 
suggested,  far  better  for  Mr.  Frost  to  start  a  fresh  organisa- 
tion, on  the  lines  of  the  C.I.M.  if  he  pleased,  but  something 
that  would  be  native  in  its  inception  and  development ; 
for  a  transplanted  mission,  like  a  transplanted  tree,  would 
have  difficulty  in  striking  root  in  the  new  soil.  Needless  to 
say  this  was  a  great  disappointment. 

"  On  reaching  my  lodgings,"  the  visitor  recalled,  "  I  had 
one  of  the  most  sorrowful  experiences  of  my  life.  At  the 
threshold  of  my  room,  Satan  seemed  to  meet  me  and  envelop 
me  in  darkness.  ...  I  had  come  over  three  thousand  miles 
only  to  receive  to  my  request  the  answer,  No.  But  this  was 
not  the  worst  of  it.  I  had  had  positive  assurance  that  the  Lord 
had  Himself  guided  me  in  my  prayer,  and  had  led  me  to  take 
the  long  journey  and  make  the  request  that  had  been  made  ; 
but  now  I  felt  I  could  never  again  be  sure  whether  my  pxayefs 
were  or  were  not  of  God,  or  whether  I  was  or  was  not  being  guided 
of  Him." 

Only  those  who  have  passed  through  similar  experiences 
can  know  what  such  a  test  of  faith  meant,  and  how  real  was 
the  victory  when  the  one  so  tried  Vv^as  enabled  to  trust  where 


WHAT  IS  BETWIXT  CHRIST  AND  ME        439 

he  could  not  understand.  This  restored  "  something  of 
soul-rest,"  and  Mr.  Frost  went  back  to  America  leaving  the 
issues  with  the  Lord. 

But  the  matter  did  not  end  there.  Mr.  Frost  had  learned 
that  Mr.  Taylor  was  returning  to  China  before  long,  and 
that  if  invited  to  do  so  he  might  travel  by  way  of  America. 
This  he  made  known  to  the  Conveners  of  the  Bible  Study 
Conference  at  Niagara  -  on  -  the  -  Lake  and  to  Mr.  D.  L. 
Moody,  whose  summer  gatherings  at  Northfield  were 
already  a  centre  of  much  blessing,  with  the  result  that 
invitations  began  to  reach  Mr.  Taylor  to  visit  the  great 
new  world. 

Meanwhile,  in  England,  the  latter  was  unremitting  in  his 
labours.  The  widespread  interest  aroused  by  the  outgoing 
of  the  Hundred  brought  more  openings  for  meetings  than 
he  could  possibly  accept,  and  very  stimulating  to  faith  were 
the  facts  he  had  to  tell. 

"  What  a  wonderful  year  it  has  been,  both  for  you  and  me  !  " 
he  wrote  to  Mr.  Stevenson  early  in  1888.  "  Satan  will  surely 
leave  no  stone  unturned  to  hinder,  and  we  must  not  be  surprised 
at  troublesome  difficulties  coming  up :  but  greater  is  He  Who 
is  for  us  than  all  who  can  be  against  us." 

The  certainty  of  opposition,  definite  and  determined,  from 
the  powers  of  darkness  seems  to  have  been  much  before  him, 
and  the  question  of  funds  for  the  largely  increased  work  was 
one  that  could  not  be  ignored.  But  with  regard  to  both  the 
one  and  the  other,  his  mind  was  kept  in  peace. 

"  God  has  moved,"  he  said  at  the  Annual  Meetings  (May 
'88)  ;  "  are  we  also  moving  ?  Are  we  ready  to  go  on  with  Him 
.  .  .  ready  to  be  filled  with  the  Holy  Spirit  ?  Oh,  this  is  what 
we  need,  need  supremely,  need  more  than  ever.  I  have  not 
much  anxiety  about  our  income.  I  do  not  believe  that  our 
Heavenly  Father  will  ever  forget  His  children.  I  am  a  very 
poor  father,  but  it  is  not  my  habit  to  forget  my  children.  God 
is  a  very,  very  good  Father.  It  is  not  His  habit  to  forget  His 
children.  But  suppose  He  should  not  work  in  the  way  He  has 
done,  by  sending  in  tens  of  thousands  of  pounds  ?  Well,  then, 
we  can  do  without  it.  We  cannot  do  without  Him,  but  we  can 
do  without  any  '  it '  in  the  world.  If  only  we  have  the  Lord, 
that  is  sufficient." 


440  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

"  I  do  not  wonder,"  he  had  written  to  Mr.  Stevenson  in 
January,  "  that  Satan  has  been  trying  you  sorely.  I  should 
wonder,  and  almost  be  afraid,  if  he  did  not.  It  is  not  likely 
that  he  will  let  work  hke  this  pass  without  showing  himself  as 
an  opposer.  But  let  us  believe,  as  Mr.  Radchffe  reminds  us, 
that  when  the  enemy  comes  in  one  way,  he  will  have  to  flee 
seven.  Difficulties  are  sure  to  increase,  but  the  power  of  the 
Lord  is  unlimited.  When  He  asks  you  or  me  where  we  shall 
buy  bread,  or  how  we  shall  solve  this  or  that  problem,  it  is  only 
to  prove  us.  He  always  knows  what  He  will  do  ;  and  if  we  wait 
His  time.  He  will  show  us  also." 

It  was  a  summer  day  toward  the  end  of  June  when  the 
s.s.  Etruria  put  out  to  sea,  carrying  among  her  "  Inter- 
mediate "  passengers,  Mr.  Taylor,  his  son,  and  a  secretary. 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Radcliffe  also  were  of  the  party,  though  not  in 
that  semi  -  steerage  accommodation.  Outward  discomfort 
mattered  little  to  Mr.  Taylor  ;  but  he  was  finding,  almost 
with  surprise,  that  parting  from  those  he  loved  best  did  not 
become  any  easier.^  A  long  while  might  elapse  before  he 
could  return,  and  the  very  uncertainty  was  painful. 

"  As  I  walked  the  deck  last  night,"  he  wrote  to  Mrs.  Taylor 
from  Queenstown,  "  I  found  myself  singing  softly,  '  Jesus,  I 
am  resting,  resting  in  the  joy  of  what  Thou  art ' — such  a  comfort 
when  feeling  desolate,  and  feehng  your  desolation  1  No  one 
comforts  like  He  does." 

"  Few  know  what  is  betwixt  Christ  and  me,'*  wrote  the 
saintly  Rutherford ;  and  little  can  his  fellow-passengers  on 
that  Atlantic  voyage  have  realised  what  lay  behind  the 
quiet  exterior  of  the  missionary  on  his  way  for  the  seventh 
time  to  China.  Yet  the  sweetness  was  felt,  and  the  power  ; 
and  by  no  one  more  than  the  young  American  who  was  on 
the  New  York  landing  stage  to  meet  them.  For  there  was 
about  Mr.  Frost's  spiritual  nature  a  quality  that  responded 
in  an  unusual  way  to  much  of  which  he  could  be,  as  yet,  but 
dimly  conscious  in  the  life  of  Hudson  Taylor. 

It  was  with  joy  at  any  rate  that  he  received  the  party, 
including  Mr.  and  Mrs.   Reginald  Radcliffe,  and  escorted 

*  His  second  son,  Howard,  who  was  travelling  with  him,  though  an 
accepted  member  of  the  Mission,  had  to  go  back  from  America  to  complete 
his  appointments  at  the  London  Hospital  as  House-Surgeon,  Physician,  etc. 


WHAT  IS  BETWIXT  CHRIST  AND  ME         441 

them  to  his  father's  home  in  Madison  Avenue,  where  there 
was  ample  accommodation  and  the  warmest '  of  welcomes. 
How  gracious  was  the  hospitality  that  encompassed  them, 
the  visitors  could  not  at  the  time  fully  realise.  Unfamiliar 
with  American  ways,  it  was  but  natural  that  some  mistakes 
should  be  made  which  no  one  would  have  regretted  more 
than  they,  had  they  been  conscious  of  them.  Such,  for 
example,  was  the  almost  unconscious  act  of  putting  their 
boots  outside  the  bedroom  doors  at  night,  where  they  were 
found  shining  with  an  irreproachable  polish  next  morning — 
none  of  the  visitors  suspecting  the  discovery  Mr.  Frost  had 
made  of  his  father  facing  this  formidable  array  of  English 
"  footwear  "  in  the  bathroom,  where  together  they  spent  no 
little  labour  upon  them  before  retiring.^ 

Of  the  three  months  that  followed  it  is  difficult  to  write, 
not  for  lack  of  information  but  because  of  the  very  fulness 
of  the  records  and  the  importance  of  events  that  took  place. 
For  who  could  have  foreseen  that,  arriving  in  America  in 
July,  little  known  and  with  no  thought  but  to  take  part  in  a 
few  conferences  on  his  way  to  China,  Mr.  Taylor  would  leave 
again  in  October,  widely  loved  and  trusted,  laden  with  gifts, 
followed  by  prayer,  and  taking  with  him  a  band  of  young 
workers  chosen  out  of  more  than  forty  who  had  offered  their 
lives  for  service  in  the  Mission  ?  If  the  going  out  of  the 
Hundred  in  the  preceding  year  had  been  a  striking  evidence 
of  the  hand  of  God  working  with  him,  what  shall  be  said  of 
this  unexpected  movement,  deeply  affecting  Christian  life 
in  the  Eastern  States  and  Canada,  and  rousing  Toronto, 
from  which  the  party  finally  set  out,  to  an  enthusiasm  rarely 
equalled  ? 

"  Sunday  night,  Sept.  23,  1888,  saw  the  greatest  and  most 
enthusiastic  gathering  ever  held  in  Toronto  up  to  that  time," 
wrote  one  who  was  present.     "  The  place  was  the  Y.M.C.A., 

^  Mr.  Taylor  discovered  before  Mr,  Radcliffe,  as  it  happened,  that  boots 
and  shoes  in  America  are  usually  attended  to  by  those  to  whom  they 
belong — a  little  poUshing  outfit  forming  part  of  one's  personal  equipment. 
Having  provided  himself  in  this  way,  it  was  with  real  enjoyment  he  would 
slip  along,  when  travelling  alone  with  Mr.  Radcliffe,  and  fetch  the  boots 
the  latter  put  outside  his  door,  and  after  cleaning  them  to  perfection,  as 
quietly  put  them  back  again, 


442         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

the  hour  8.30  p.m.,  just  after  the  evening  services  in  the  churches. 
One  might  say  that  the  cream  of  Toronto's  rehgious  hfe  was 
gathered  there,  to  hear  the  Rev.  J.  Hudson  Taylor  and  the  men 
and  women  accepted  by  him  for  work  in  China.  The  power  of 
God  was  manifest  in  a  wonderful  way,  and  as  a  result  a  great 
and  abiding  impetus  was  given  to  foreign  missions." 

And  the  wonder  of  it  all  was  that  it  was  so  unpremedi- 
tated ! 

"  I  had  not  the  remotest  idea  in  coming  to  America,"  Mr. 
Taylor  himself  recalled,  "  that  anything  specially  bearing  upon 
the  work  of  the  China  Inland  Mission  would  grow  out  of  it. 
I  was  glad  to  come  when  my  way  was  providentially  opened. 
I  wanted  to  see  Mr.  Moody,  and  had  heard  of  over  two  thousand 
students  wishful  to  consecrate  their  lives  to  God's  service  abroad.^ 
The  American  societies,  I  thought,  are  not  quite  in  a  position 
to  take  up  these  two  thousand,  and  perhaps  if  we  tell  them  about 
God's  faithfulness  they  will  find  it  written  in  their  Bibles  not 
'  be  sent,'  but  'go.'  I  beheve  in  verbal  inspiration,  and  that 
I  God  could  have  said  '  be  sent '  if  He  had  wished  it,  instead  of 
''  go.'     I  hoped  I  might  be  able  to  encourage  some  to  *  go.'  " 

As  to  bringing  forward  the  work  of  the  Mission  with  a 
view  to  developing  an  American  branch,  nothing  was 
further  from  his  thoughts.  Had  he  not  told  Mr.  Frost  only 
a  few  months  earlier  that  he  had  no  guidance  in  that  direc- 
tion, sending  him  back  from  England  perplexed  and  dis- 
appointed ?  And  if  it  was  not  in  Mr.  Taylor's  purpose, 
still  less  was  it  anticipated  by  those  to  whom  his  personaUty 
and  message  came  as  so  new  a  force  that  summer  at  North- 
field.  The  Student  Conference  was  in  full  swing  when  he 
and  his  companions  arrived,  and,  met  by  Mr.  Moody  himself, 
were  driven  out  to  his  beautiful  home  in  the  middle  of  the 
night.     It  was  a  strangely  new  experience  to  the  English 

^  The  Student  Volunteer  Movement,  only  called  into  being  two  summers 
before,  had  already  attained  remarkable  proportions — over  two  thousand 
undergraduates  having  signed  the  declaration  :  "  I  am  willing  and  desirous, 
God  permitting,  to  become  a  foreign  missionary."  To  Mr.  Taylor  it  must 
have  been  no  little  encouragement  to  learn  of  the  connection  of  all  this 
with  the  China  Inland  Mission.  "  The  story  ...  of  the  Cambridge 
band,  particularly  the  account  of  the  visits  of  a  deputation  of  these 
students  to  other  British  universities,  with  their  missionary  message, 
made  a  profound  impression  on  us,"  wrote  one  of  the  early  leaders.  "  Here 
really  was  the  germ  thought  of  the  Student  Volunteer  Movement "  (Charles 
K.  Ober). 


WHAT  IS  BETWIXT  CHRIST  AND  ME        443 

visitors,  and  one  full  of  interest.  Four  hundred  men  from 
ninety  different  colleges  filled  the  Seminary  buildings,  and 
overflowed  in  tents  on  the  far-reaching  campus  backed  by 
hills  and  woods.  The  afternoon  was  kept  entirely  free  for 
recreation. 

"  Delegates  should  come  fully  equipped  for  bathing,  tennis, 
baseball,  football,  hill-cHmbing  and  all  other  outdoor  exercises," 
ran  the  official  invitation.  "  They  should  also  bring  their  own 
reference  Bibles  and  a  good  supply  of  note-books." 

Morning  and  evening  the  spacious  auditorium  was  filled 
for  devotional  meetings  and  Bible  study — the  open  doors 
admitting  birds  as  well  as  breezes,  and  the  summer  dress  of 
the  students  giving  a  rainbow  effect  in  the  blending  of  soft 
colours.^ 

It  was  an  inspiring  assembly,  including  many  pastors, 
professors,  Y.M.C.A.  secretaries,  and  leading  philanthropists. 
The  corps  of  speakers  was  able  and  representative,  and  Mr. 
Moody,  who  presided,  was  at  his  best .  But  it  was  in  the  young 
men  themselves  the  inspiration  lay — such  power,  such 
possibilities  !  Mr.  Taylor  could  not  but  be  moved  by  such 
an  audience,  and  to  him  the  students  seem  to  have  been 
attracted  in  a  special  way. 

"  With  the  exception  of  my  own  father,"  said  Mr.  Robert 
Wilder  many  years  later,  "  Mr.  Taylor  was  the  man  who  was 
the  greatest  spiritual  help  to  me.  When  he  came  to  Northfield 
and  appealed  on  behalf  of  China,  the  hearts  of  the  delegates 
burned  within  them.  And  he  not  only  made  the  needs  of  the 
mission-field  very  real ;  he  showed  us  the  possibilities  of  the 
Christian  Hfe.  The  students  loved  to  hear  him  expound  the 
Word  of  God.  He  was  a  master  of  his  Bible,  and  his  sympathy 
and  naturalness  attracted  men  to  him.  His  addresses  were  so 
much  appreciated  that  Mr.  Moody  had  to  announce  extra  meetings 
to  be  held  by  him  in  the  afternoons — so  many  of  the  students 
were  anxious  to  hear  more  from  the  veteran  missionary.  .  .  . 
Eternity  alone  can  reveal  the  results  of  that  Hfe,  and  the  effect 
of  his  words  upon  our  Student  Movement. 

"  One  of  the  founders  of  the  S.V.M.,  the  Rev.  J.  N.  Forman, 

^  An  unstarched  white  or  coloured  shirt  and  collar,  a  tie,  a  belt  and 
light-coloured  trousers  is  the  summer  costume  of  the  American  student, 
completed  with  a  "  sweater,"  or  coat,  when  warmth  is  needed.  This  is 
en  regie  for  Sundays  even  at  Student  Conferences. 


444         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

has  written  to  me  from  India :  '  One  of  the  greatest  blessings 
of  my  hfe  came  to  me  through,  not  from,  the  Rev.  J.  Hudson 
Taylor.'  '  Through,  not  from,'  that  was  how  we  all  felt.  He 
was  a  channel — open,  clean,  and  so  closely  connected  with  the 
Fountain  of  Living  Waters  that  all  who  came  in  contact  with 
t    him  were  refreshed. 

^'         "  And  what  impressed  us  undergraduates  was  not  merely 

the  spirituaHty  of  Mr.  Taylor,  it  was  his  common  sense^    One 

asked  him  the  question  :   *  Arcyou.jalways  conscious  of  abiding 

>lft  Christ  ?  '  "'■^      "     "'  ^ 

(  I  j  "  *  While  sleeping  last  night,'  he  replied,  'did  I  cease  to-abide 

\  ;^  yovLT  house  because  I  was  unconscious  of  the  fact  ?     We 

should  never  be  conscious  of  not  abiding  in  Christ.' .  .  . 

"  When  asked,  '  How  is  it  that  you  can  address  so  many 
meetings  ?  '  he  said  to  us  :    *  Every  morning  I  feed  upon  the 
Word  of  God,  then  I  pass  on  through  the  day  messages  that 
^/Hjave  first  helped  me  in  my  own  soul.' 

^Hi  \    "  '  You  can  work  without  praying,  but  it  is  a  bad  plan,'  was 

ir  jjnother  of  his  sayings,  '  but  you  cannot  pray  in  earnest  without 

v^/working.'     And  '  Do  not  be  so  busy  with  work  for  Christ  that 

you  have  no.  strength  left  for  praying.     True  prayer  requires 

strength.'  ._^ 

"  It  was  not,  however,  the  words  only  of  Mr.  Taylor  that 
helped  us,  it  was  the  life  of  the  man.  He  bore  about  with  him 
the  fragrance  of  Jesus  Christ." 

And  this  was  the  impression  wherever  he  went.  Even 
children  felt  it. 

"  To-day  is  our  little  boy's  fifth  birthday,"  wrote  a  minister 

many  weeks  after  Mr.  Taylor  had  stayed  in  his  home.     "  All  the 

children  constantly  mention  you,  and  often  pray  for  you." 

/'        "  It  seemed  to  me,"  recalled  Mr.  W.  E.  Blackstone  of  Chicago, 

'(     "  that  it  was  the  almost  visible  presence  of  God  in  him  that 

made  his  plain  and  simple  words  so  powerful." 

"  A  servant  of  the  Lord  whose  hght  we  had  not  heretofore 
seen,"  was  the  impression  made  at  the  Niagara  Conference, 
where  "  his  presence  and  words  were  so  blessed  as  to  make  the 
occasion  one  of  the  most  memorable  in  the  Hfetime  of  many  a 
Christian  worker."  ^ 

But  though  deeply  thankful  for  such  opportunities,  it 
was  not  until  Mr.  Taylor  had  been  nearly  a  month  in  America 
that  it  began  to  dawn  upon  him  that  there  was  a  larger 

»  The  Rev.  W.  J.  Erdman,  D.D.,  Secretary  to  the  Conference. 


^ 


WHAT  IS  BETWIXT  CHRIST  AND  ME         445 

purpose  concerning  th;s  visit  than  any  he  had  in  view.  His 
increasingly  full  programme  had  brought  him,  a  few  days 
previously,  to  Niagara-on-the-Lake,  in  fulfilment  of  an 
engagement  made  before  leaving  England.  It  was  the 
opening  of  the  above-mentioned  Conference,  and  Mr.  Taylor 
found  himself  in  the  midst  of  *'  a  great  gathering  of  deeply 
taught  Christians." 

"  The  premillennial  Advent  is  prominent,"  he  wrote,  "  and 
the  Word  of  God  is  honoured." 

A  special  feature  of  the  Conference,  which  was  under  the 
presidency  of  Dr.  James  Brookes  of  St.  Louis,  was  the  large 
number  of  ministers  present,  Canadian  as  well  as  American, 
of  various  denominations.  Mr.  Taylor  was  only  able  to 
speak  twice,  having  to  pass  on  to  Chicago  for  other  meetings, 
but  the  impression  made  was  profound.  Personal  love  to 
the  Lord  Jesus  as  typified  in  the  Song  of  Solomon,  and  faith 
in  God  (or  the  faithfulness  of  God,  rather,  upon  which  faith 
is  to  lay  hold)  were  his  subjects,  and  he  scarcely  made  any 
reference  to  China  or  the  Mission. 

"  One  of  the  leading  evangelists  present,"  Mr.  Frost  tells 
us,  "  confessed  that  the  addresses  had  come  to  him  almost  as 
a  revelation,  and  many  others  shared  this  feeling.  .  .  .  Hearts 
and  Hves  were  brought  into  an  altogether  new  relationship  to 
God  and  Christ,  and  not  a  few,  in  the  joyfulness  of  full  surrender, 
quietly  but  finally  offered  themselves  to  the  Lord  for  His  service 
an3rwhere  and  ever3rwhere." 

But  of  this  and  subsequent  happenings  Mr.  Taylor  knew 
nothing.  His  visit  to  Chicago  ended,  he  had  come  east  again 
to  Attica,  a  lovely  village  in  the  state  of  New  York,  where 
Mr.  Frost,  senior,  and  his  son  had  their  summer  homes. 
The  son  was  expected  on  the  midnight  train  from  Niagara, 
and  Mr.  Taylor  was  at  the  station  to  meet  him — eager  to 
hear  mc^re  of  the  Conference,  but  little  thinking  of  the  news 
he  had  to  bring. 

For  unexpected  developments  had  taken  place  at  the 
Niagara  meetings  after  Mr.  Taylor's  departure.  Disappointed 
at  not  hearing  more  from  him  on  the  subject  of  foreign 
missions,  the  Conference  all  the  more  welcomed  the  addresses 


446         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

of  Mr.  Radcliffe  and  Mr.  Robert  Wilder,  for  which  the  way 
had  been  well  prepared.  Burning  words  were  spoken  by 
the  veteran  evangelist  and  the  young  volunteer  on  the 
responsibility  of  each  succeeding  generation  of  believers  to 
obey  the  great  command,  "Go  ye  into  all  the  world  and 
preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature.*'  He  had  learned,  Mr. 
Wilder  told  them,  the  secret  of  how  to  work  for  the  Lord 
twenty-four  hours  a  day,  and  to  keep  on  doing  so  all  the  year 
round.  It  was  a  lady  who  had  made  the  discovery.  When 
asked  how  it  was  possible — 

"  I  work  twelve  hours  here,"  she  replied,  "  and  when  I 
have  to  rest,  my  representative  in  India  begins  her  day,  and 
works  the  other  twelve." 

"  We  want  many  from  the  Niagara  Conference  to  work 
twenty-four  hours  a  day  Hke  this,"  he  urged.  "  Christian 
friends,  you  who  cannot  go,  why  not  have  your  own  repre- 
sentatives on  the  foreign  field  ?  "  -' 

This  was  a  new  idea,  but  seemed  so  reasonable  that  Mr. 
Radcliffe  was  kept  busy  answering  questions  as  to  how  much 
it  would  take  to  support  a  worker  in  the  China  Inland 
Mission.  Two  hundred  and  fifty  dollars  a  year  (£50)  he 
thought  would  suffice,^  and  a  meeting  was  appointed  to  see 
what  was  to  be  the  practical  outcome.  Dr.  W.  J.  Erdman 
was  in  the  Chair,  but  the  occasion  was  not  one  for  much 
direction  or  control. 

.  "  After  singing  and  prayer,"  he  wrote,  *'  the  Secretary,  who 
had  in  mind  the  general  guidance  of  the  meeting,  suddenly  found 
himself  entirely  emptied  of  every  idea  and  preference,  and  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  came  upon  the  believers  present.  The  rest 
of  the  hour  was  filled  with  voluntary  praises,  prayers  and  con- 
secration of  young  men  and  women  to  service  in  the  foreign 
field.  It  was  a  meeting  never  to  be  forgotten,  and  money  for 
the  China  Inland  Mission  came  in  without  advertisement  or 
urging  on  the  part  of  any." 

But  even  this  experience  was  surpassed  next  day  when 
the  Conference  reassembled. 

"  As  I  reached  the  Pavilion,"  wrote  Mr.  Frost,  to  whom  gifts 

^  This  proved  inadequate,  however,  as  it  made  no  allowance  for  in- 
cidental and  travelling  expenses,  house  rent,  and  the  like. 


WHAT  IS  BETWIXT  CHRIST  AND  ME        447 

and  pledges  of  money  sufficient  for  the  support  of  two  missionaries 
had  been  given  the  previous  evening,  "  I  found  that  people  had 
become  intoxicated  with  the  joy  of  giving,  and  that  they  were 
seeking  another  opportunity  for  making  free-will  offerings  for 
the  Lord's  work  in  China.  A  number  were  standing  up,  pledging 
themselves  to  give  a  certain  amount  toward  the  support  of  a 
missionary,  and  some  were  saying  that  they  wanted  to  work 
twenty-four  hours  a  day  by  having  a  missionary  all  to  them- 
selves. Again  promises  and  money  came  flowing  in,  until,  this 
time,  I  had  scarcely  a  place  to  put  them.  There  I  stood  in  the 
midst  of  the  assembly — without  ever  wishing  it  or  thinking  such 
a  thing  could  be — suddenly  transformed  into  an  impromptu 
Treasurer  of  the  China  Inland  Mission.  And  afterwards,  upon 
counting  what  had  been  given,  I  found  enough  to  support  not 
two  missionaries  but  actually  eight,  for  a  whole  year,  in  inland 
China." 

Returning  to  his  room  that  summer  morning  Mr.  Frost 
could  not  but  remember  the  sorrowful  experience  through 
which  he  had  passed  in  London,  when  he  had  wondered 
whether  he  could  ever  know  that  prayer  was  really  answered, 
or  be  assured  of  the  guidance  of  God  again.  The  faith  that 
had  sustained  him  then  was  being  exchanged  for  sight,  and 
as  he  poured  out  his  heart  in  wondering  thankfulness  he 
realised  how  safe  and  good  it  is  **  not  only  to  wait  upon  God, 
but  also  to  wait  for  Him." 

This  then  was  the  story  he  had  to  tell,  when  upon  reaching 
Attica  at  midnight  he  found  Mr.  Taylor  on  the  platform  to 
meet  him. 

"  I  kept  my  secret,  however,"  he  continued,  "  until  we 
reached  my  father's  house  and  Mr.  Taylor's  bedroom.  Then, 
fully  and  joyously,  I  described  to  him  how  after  his  departure 
from  Niagara  the  Spirit  had  swept  over  the  Conference  ;  how 
the  offerings  had  been  given  and  put  into  my  hands  to  pass  on 
to  him  ;  and  how  they  had  been  found  to  amount  to  a  sum 
sufficient  to  support  eight  missionaries  for  a  year  in  China. 

"  Quietly  he  listened,  and  with  such  a  serious  look  that  I 
confess,  for  once  in  my  Ufe,  I  was  disappointed  in  Mr.  Taylor. 
Instead  of  being  glad,  he  seemed  burdened.  If  I  remember 
rightly,  he  did  just  say,  '  Praise  the  Lord,'  or  '  Thank  God,'  but 
beyond  this  there  was  nothing  to  indicate  that  he  accepted  the 
news  as  good  news,  as  I  had  anticipated.  For  a  few  minutes 
he  stood  apparently  lost  in  thought,  and  then  said : 


448         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

'*  '  I  think  we  had  better  pray.' 

"  Upon  this  we  knelt  beside  the  bed,  and  he  began  to  ask 
what  the  Lord  meant  by  all  that  had  taken  place.  It  was  only 
as  he  went  on  pleading  for  hght  that  I  commenced  to  under- 
stand what  was  in  Mr.  Taylor's  mind.  He  had  reahsed  at  once 
that  this  was  a  very  marked  providence,  and  that  God  had 
probably  brought  him  to  America  for  other  purposes  than  simply 
to  give  a  few  addresses  on  his  way  to  China.  He  had  inquired 
from  me  how  the  money  was  to  be  used,  and  I  had  repHed  that 
it  was  designated,  by  preference,  for  the  support  of  North 
American  workers.  From  this  he  saw  that  the  obHgation  was 
laid  upon  him  of  appeahng  for  missionaries  from  North  America 
— a  heavy  responsibility,  in  view  of  aU  that  it  involved.  .  .  . 
It  was  becoming  clear  to  him,  as  to  me,  that  my  visit  to  London 
and  appeal  for  a  branch  of  the  Mission  to  be  estabHshed  on 
this  continent  had  been  more  providential  than  was  at  first 
recognised." 

Unexpectedly  a  crisis  had  arisen,  fraught,  as  Mr.  Taylor 
could  not  but  see,  with  far-reaching  results.  He  was  glad  to 
be  returning  to  Northfield  shortly  for  the  General  Con- 
ference, when  he  would  have  the  opportunity  of  consulting 
Mr.  Moody  and  other  friends.  For  the  problem  that  faced 
him,  after  little  more  than  three  weeks  in  America,  was  no 
simple  one,  and  as  yet  the  man  at  his  side,  young  and 
retiring  as  he  was,  had  not  been  recognised  as  the  providential 
solution. 

"  God  is  with  us,"  he  wrote  to  Mrs.  Taylor  before  leaving 
for  Buffalo  next  morning  (July  26).  "  Money  for  a  year's  support 
of  several  new  missionaries  is  either  given  or  promised,  and  great 
issues  are  Hkely  to  result  from  our  visit.  There  never  was  more 
need  for  prayer  than  at  present.  May  the  Lord  guide  in  all 
things." 

"  I  think  we  must  have  an  American  branch  of  the  Mission," 
he  was  writing  to  Mr.  Stevenson  from  Ocean  Grove  a  few  days 
later.  "  Do  not  be  surprised  if  I  should  bring  reinforcements 
with  me." 

The  conclusion  to  which  Mr.  Taylor  was  thus  being  led 
was  strongly  confirmed  on  his  return  to  Northfield.  Mr. 
Moody  advised  his  appealing  at  once  for  workers,  and 
introduced  him  to  some  of  his  own  students  who  were 
feeling  called  to  China.     But  even  then  it  was  with  fear  and 


WHAT  IS  BETWIXT  CHRIST  AND  ME        449 

trembling  he  went  forward.  The  Mission  had  always  been 
interdenominational,  but  there  had  been  no  thought  of  its 
becoming  international,  and  twenty-one  years  of  experience 
had  made  its  leader  cautious.^  But  once  his  mind  was 
made  up,  the  appeal  was  a  strong  one. 

"  To  have  missionaries  and  no  money  would  be  no  trouble 
to  me,"  was  the  way  he  put  it  ;  "  for  the  Lord  is  bound  to  take 
care  of  His  own  :  He  does  not  want  me  to  assume  His  responsi- 
bility. But  to  have  money  and  no  missionaries  is  very  serious 
indeed.  And  I  do  not  think  it  will  be  kind  of  you  dear  friends 
in  America  to  put  this  burden  upon  us,  and  not  to  send  some 
from  among  yourselves  to  use  the  money.  We  have  the  dollars, 
but  where  are  the  people  ?  " 

One  by  one,  in  ways  we  must  not  attempt  to  detail, 
prepared  men  and  women  responded  to  the  call,  until  Mr. 
Taylor  was  assured  that  it  was  indeed  the  Lord's  purpose 
for  him  to  take  on  a  band  to  China.  When  the  first  three 
were  accepted,  he  began  to  be  relieved  about  the  funds  in 
hand.  Their  passages  had  been  promised  independently, 
but  their  support  for  the  first  year  would  use  a  considerable 
part  of  the  money  contributed  at  Niagara  "  if  things  went 
smoothly."  But  from  this  point  of  view,  things  did  not 
go  at  all  smoothly.  Parents,  friends,  or  the  churches  to 
which  they  belonged  claimed  the  privilege  of  sustaining 
these  workers.  When  as  many  as  eight  had  been  accepted, 
the  original  fund  was  still  untouched,  and  the  further  they 
went  the  less  chance  there  seemed  of  getting  to  an  end  of  it. 
Consecrated  money,  Mr.  Taylor  remarked,  was  something 
like  the  consecrated  loaves  and  fishes,  there  was  no  using 
it  up. 

But  all  the  while,  out  of  sight,  there  was  a  quiet  force  of 
prayer  at  work  that  went  far  to  account  for  the  wonderful 
things  that  were  happening.  Mr.  Taylor  and  his  party  w^ere 
so  carried  forward  on  a  tide  of  interest  and  enthusiasm  that 
it  was  all  they  could  do  to  keep  up  with  their  programme, 
and  prolonged  seasons  of  prayer — save  for  his  early  morning 

*  "  I  never  felt  more  timid,"  he  said  a  year  later,  "  about  anj^thing 
in  my  life." 

2  G 


^ 


450         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

hour — were  impossible.  But  in  the  retirement  of  that  country 
home  at  Attica  a  man  was  on  his  knees,  prevaiUng  with  God. 
For,  strange  to  say,  Mr.  Henry  W.  Frost  was  not  much 
in  evidence  at  the  meetings .  A  serious  illness  that  threatened 
the  life  of  his  father  kept  him  from  traveUing,  and  when  not 
required  in  the  sick  room  he  had  more  leisure  than  usual 
for  thought  and  prayer.  He  saw,  with  the  clearness  of  a 
listening  soul,  the  way  in  which  things  were  tending.  Money 
continued  to  come  to  him  for  the  support  of  missionaries  in 
China,  and  in  the  middle  of  August  he  sent  out  a  circular 
letter  to  the  contributors  asking  "  many  and  fervent 
prayers  "  that  the  right  persons  might  be  chosen,  and  that 
some  might  be  ready  to  sail  without  delay,  that  the  oppor- 
tunity of  Mr.  Taylor's  escort  might  not  be  lost.  To  the 
latter  he  wrote  also,  putting  his  home  and  services  un- 
reservedly at  his  disposal  for  the  purpose  of  becoming  better 
acquainted  with  candidates. 

"  This  quiet  at  home  is  most  blessed  in  one  respect,"  he  added 
(Aug.  27).  "I  have  much  opportunity  for  prayer,  and  I  do 
praise  God  for  it.  I  am  sure  it  is  what  He  wants  just  now,  and 
I  do  count  it  a  great  privilege  to  tell  Him  of  all  our  hopes  and 
fears  at  this  critical  time.  It  makes  me  realise  the  force  of  that 
definition  of  prayer  that  one  has  given,  '  Prayer  is  the  attitude 
of  a  needy  and  helpless  soul  whose  only  refuge  is  in  God  '  :  for 
I  feel  our  need  and  I  feel  our  helplessness  ;  yet  I  feel  at  the  same 
time  what  a  great  and  sure  refuge  we  have  in  our  God.  Praise 
His  holy  Name,  He  has  made  us  '  prisoners  in  Christ '  (Eph. 
iv.  I,  Gk.),  and  from  this  vantage-ground  we  may  ask  what  we 
will! 

"  Please  very  specially  remember  the  C.I.M.'s  relation  to 
America.  I  dare  not  seek  to  influence  you,  yet  I  ask  most 
earnestly  that  you  will  consider  the  question,  Will  it  not  be  well 
to  establish  a  branch  here  ?  I  have  much  to  say  to  you  upon 
this,  if  you  are  led  to  hsten  to  it." 

Meanwhile  Mr.  Taylor,  as  he  moved  about,  was  growingly 
impressed  with  the  spirit  and  enterprise  of  American 
Christians,  and  v/ith  the  interest  in  China  awakened  among 
them. 

"  We  had  a  magnificent  meeting  last  night,"  he  wrote  from 
Lockport  on  the  r4th  cf  August.  "  Things  are  working 
marvellously  :  the  hand  of  God  is  everywhere  apparent." 


WHAT  IS  BETWIXT  CHRIST  AND  ME       451 

A  week  later,  in  Hamilton,  he  found  a  band  of  young 
people  who  seemed  prepared  in  a  special  way  for  his  message. 
From  the  Secretary  of  the  Y.M.C.A.  he  learned  that  they 
were  united  in  earnest  prayer  that  seven  of  their  number 
might  be  privileged  to  go  as  missionaries  to  China.  Among 
the  appreciative  notices  of  Mr.  Taylor's  meetings  was  one 
long  article  in  the  leading  paper  that  ended  somewhat 
abruptly,  as  though  the  editorial  scissors  had  been  at  work. 
Another  pen,  too,  than  the  writer's  seemed  to  have  added  a 
closing  sentence. 

"  The  venerable  gentleman,"  it  said,  "  concluded  a  long, 
most  interesting  address,  by  informing  the  audience  that  the 
members  of  the  China  Inland  Mission  depended  upon  chance 
providences  for  a  scanty  subsistence." 

Notwithstanding  this  disquieting  assertion,  Mr,  Taylor's 
visit  was  largely  occupied  in  interviews  with  candidates  for 
the  work,  and  among  the  party  that  sailed  with  him  a  few 
weeks  later  were  four  young  women  and  three  men  from  the 
Hamilton  Christian  Associations,  the  Secretary  himself 
following  by  way  of  Europe.  Such  events  could  not  but 
move  the  churches,  and  recall  to  mind  the  earnest  request 
of  the  Rev.  John  McLaurin,  who  had  arranged  the  Canadian 
meetings  :  "  Pray,  pray  that  God  will  make  this  visit  a 
great  blessing  to  our  dear  Canada." 

Time  fails  to  tell  of  the  growing  interest,  the  abiding 
impression  and  the  many  friendships  made  as  Mr.  Taylor 
moved  from  place  to  place. 

/''  "I  was  only  a  httle  girl,"  recalled  a  Southern  lady,  "  when 
my  mother  took  me  to  hear  him  at  Dr.  Brookes'  Church  in  St. 
Louis,  but  years  after  I  heard  Dr.  Brookes  teU  of  the  wonderful 
influence  of  that  visit,  and  how  during  his  stay  Mr.  Taylor  rose 
regularly  about  4  a.m.  and  spent  the  early  hours  with  Him  Who 
was  the  source  of  his  great  power. 

"  Only  to-day  Mrs.  Brookes  gave  me  the  details  of  an  incident 
her  sainted  husband  loved  to  tell.  It  was  necessary  for  Mr. 
Taylor  to  leave  their  home  early,  to  get  a  train  for  Springfield 
(111.),  where  he  was  to  speak  that  day.  There  was  some  un- 
accountable delay  in  the  arrival  of  the  carriage  to  convey  him 
to  the  depot,  and  Dr.  Brookes  vv^as  much  worried,  but  Mr.  Taylor 
was  perfectly  calm.     When  they  reached  the  station  the  train 


u 


452         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

had  left,  and  there  seemed  no  possible  way  for  him  to  keep 
his  appointment.     But  he  quietly  told  Dr.  Brookes  : 

"  '  My  Father  manages  the  trains,  and  I'U  be  there.' 

"  Upon  inquiry  of  the  agent  they  found  a  train  leaving  St. 
Louis  in  another  direction,  which  crossed  a  hne  going  to  Spring- 
field ;  but  the  train  on  the  other  hne  always  left  ten  minutes 
before  this  train  arrived,  as  they  were  opposing  roads.  With- 
out a  moment's  hesitation  Mr.  Taylor  said  he  would  go  that 
way,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  the  agent  told  him  they  never' 
made  connections  there.  For  almost  the  first  time  in  the  history 
of  that  road  the  St.  Louis  train  arrived  ahead  of  the  other,  and 
Mr.  Taylor  was  able  to  keep  his  appointment  at  Springfield..' 

"  When  he  was  leaving  next  day  for  Rochester,  N.Y.,  a  Mr. 
Wilson  accompanied  him  to  the  station.  He  felt  it  impressed 
upon  him  that  Mr.  Taylor  did  not  have  sufficient  money  for  the 
tickets  (a  matter  of  about  eight  pounds),  and  upon  inquiry  found 
this  to  be  the  case. 

"  '  Why  did  you  not  teU  us  ? '  asked  Mr.  Wilson,  who  had  de- 
^cided  the  night  before  to  take  the  tickets  and  had  come  provided. 

"  '  My  Father  knew,'  was  the  quiet  answer  ;  '  it  was  not 
necessary  to  speak  to  any  of  His  children  about  it.'  .- 

"  Many  of  us  who  heard  of  these  experiences  had  learned  to 
bring  the  greater  things  of  life  to  our  Heavenly  Father,  but  the 
simple,  child-like  trust  of  this  godly  man  taught  us  to  come  to 
our  Heavenly  Father  with  the  smaller  details  as  well.  '  Casting 
all  your  care  (anxiety)  upon  Him,  for  He  careth  for  you.'  " 

By  the  middle  of  September  Mr.  Frost's  prayers  seemed 
more  than  answered.  The  number  of  applicants  to  join  the 
Mission  had  risen  to  over  forty,  out-distancing  even  his  faith 
and  expectations.  Hundreds  of  letters  had  poured  in,  and 
Mr.  Taylor  was  wholly  unable  to  cope  with  the  correspond- 
ence necessary  for  completing  the  cases  of  candidates.^  It 
was  with  thankfulness,  therefore,  he  fell  back  on  Mr.  Frost's 
suggestion  of  a  reunion  of  the  outgoing  party  at  Attica,  when 
he  might  be  able  to  hand  over  much  of  the  work  that  re- 
mained to  his  willing  hands. 

"  It  is  very  kind  of  you  to  choose  Attica  as  a  gathering  place," 
wrote  the  latter.  "  There  will  be  no  difficulty  in  caring  for 
almost  any  number  Ukely  to  be  invited.     Besides  my  mother's 

^  Eight  hundred  and  twenty-six  letters  were  received  by  Mr.  Taylor 
between  July  i,  when  he  arrived  in  New  York,  and  October  5,  when  he 
sailed  from  Vancouver. 


WHAT  IS  BETWIXT  CHRIST  AND  ME       453 

home  and  our  own,  we  will  be  permitted  to  send  guests  to  three 
other  homes  in  the  village,  or  if  that  is  not  convenient,  some  of 
us  can  put  up  at  the  Hotel  at  very  reasonable  rates.  You  may 
invite  freely  therefore,  and  anticipate  a  comfortable  entertain- 
ment for  all  who  come.  .  .  . 

"  You  will  be  glad  to  know  that  your  letter  .  .  .  was  a  direct 
answer  to  many  prayers.  I  have  been  praying  specificaUy  for 
two  things :  first,  that  you  might  return  here,  and  second,  that 
there  might  be  a  series  of  farewell  meetings  of  just  such  a  nature 
as  you  have  suggested.  Besides  these,  I  have  been  asking  for 
other  things  which  your  letter  touches  upon.  I  cannot  teU  you 
how  it  burdens  my  heart  with  a  sense  of  unworthiness  to  find 
the  Almighty  God  so  ready  to  hsten  to  my  cries  and  so  quick 
to  answer  them.  Please  pray  for  me  that  I  may  walk  more 
worthy  of  such  a  Father." 

Surely  not  the  least  remarkable  of  the  converging 
providences  by  which  Mr.  Taylor  was  led  to  go  forward 
in  these  matters  was  the  generous,  devoted  co-operation  of 
Mr.  Frost,  and  the  way  in  which  he  was  ready  to  assume 
whatever  of  responsibility  Mr.  Taylor  had  to  devolve.^ 

*  In  this  connection,  an  incident  that  happened  in  Toronto  could  not 
but  confirm  Mr.  Taylor's  assurance  that  he  was  being  guided  of  God. 
Prayerful  consideration  of  the  circumstances  had  led  him  and  Mr.  Frost 
to  the  conclusion  that  it  would  be  well  to  secure  the  help  of  a  few  leading, 
godly  men,  as  a  temporary  Council,  until,  after  consultation  with  friends 
in  London  and  Shanghai,  more  permanent  arrangements  could  be  made. 
As  most  of  the  young  missionaries  were  from  Canada,  Toronto  seemed 
the  centre  indicated,  and  the  valuable  help  of  Mr.  Sandham  of  the  Christian 
Institute,  who  was  editor  also  of  a  religious  paper,  opened  the  way  for 
such  an  arrangement.  With  wide,  interdenominational  connections,  he 
very  kindly  undertook  the  responsibility  of  Hon.  Secretary  in  Canada, 
Mr.  Frost  occupying  a  similar  position  in  the  States.  But  time  was  short 
in  which  to  arrange  for  a  Council. 

In  an  upper  room  at  the  Institute  Mr.  Taylor  was  in  conference  with 
Messrs.  Frost  and  Sandham,  the  day  after  the  farewell  meetings  which 
moved  Toronto  so  profoundly  (Sept.  25).  The  names  of  several  suitable 
persons  had  been  mentioned  who  might  be  asked  to  join  a  provisional 
Council,  and  among  them  Dr.  Parsons,  Mr.  Gooderham  and  Mr.  Nasmith, 
all  of  that  city.  It  was  with  regret  Mr.  Taylor  found  that  he  could  not 
arrange  for  interviews,  to  put  the  matter  before  them  in  person.  He  had 
to  leave  that  very  day  for  Montreal,  and  was  about  to  request  Mr.  Sandham 
to  act  for  him,  when  a  knock  was  heard  at  the  door.  Great  was  the  surprise 
of  those  within  when  the  visitor  proved  to  be  one  of  the  gentlemen  in 
question.  Hardly  had  Mr.  Taylor  explained  to  him  the  circumstances, 
and  received  his  assurance  of  willing  co-operation  however,  before  another 
knock  came,  and  a  second  of  the  three  appeared.  He,  too,  was  glad  to 
serve  on  the  Council,  and  they  were  all  feeUng  impressed  with  the  hand 
of  God  in  the  matter,  when  yet  another  visitor  came  seeking  Mr.  Sandham. 


454         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Then  came  the  farewell  meetings — the  best  part  in  some 
ways  of  all  that  American  visit.  For  the  sacrifice  was  very 
real  that  the  outgoing  missionaries  and  their  families  were 
making,  and  the  love  of  Christ  so  overflowed  their  hearts  that 
few  could  see  or  hear  them  unmoved. 

"  You  have  often  seen,  dear  Mrs.  Taylor,"  wrote  Mrs. 
Reginald  Radcliffe,  whose  presence  in  the  party  v/as  no  Httle 
help,  "  how  God  has  sustained  His  children  when  leaving  home 
and  loved  ones,  but  I  do  not  suppose  even  you  have  ever  witnessed 
such  joy  as  beamed  on  the  faces  of  the  thirteen  who  left  Toronto 
on  the  26th  of  September."  (With  another  who  joined  them 
farther  west,  they  were  fourteen  in  all — eight  young  women 
and  six  men.) 

"  I  believe  Toronto  and  even  Canada,"  she  continued,  "  will 
long  remember  those  two  nights — the  farewell  and  the  departure 
of  the  missionaries.  At  the  farewell  on  Sunday  night  the 
Y.M.C.A.  Hall  was  so  full  that  an  overflow  meeting  had  to  be 
held,  and  hundreds  went  away  unable  to  get  in.  On  Monday 
Mr.  Taylor  had  to  leave  for  Montreal,  but  it  was  arranged  for 
the  missionary  party  and  their  friends  to  meet  at  Dr.  Parson's 
church  at  nine  the  following  evening,  to  take  the  Lord's  Supper 
together,  going  from  the  church  to  the  station.  It  was  said 
that  from  five  hundred  to  a  thousand  people  were  at  the  station, 
singing  and  cheering.  Finally  my  husband  led  in  prayer,  the 
great  concourse  repeating  the  words  aloud  after  him  .  .  .  and 
slowly  the  train  moved  away.  As  we  returned  the  members 
of  the  Y.M.C.A.  walked  four  abreast,  singing  hymns,  up  the 
streets  of  Toronto." 

Very  different  from  these  stirring  scenes  was  the  memory 
that  lingered  in  Mr.  Taylor's  heart  with  special  sweetness. 
It  was  in  Mr.  Frost's  home  town  of  Attica  the  incident  had 
taken  place,  at  one  of  the  first  farewell  meetings.  The  father 
of  a  dear  girl  in  the  party.  Miss  Susie  Parker,  had  come  over 
from  Pittsfield,  Mass.,  and  was  sitting  near  the  platform. 
Seeing  a  wonderful  light  on  his  face,  Mr.  Taylor  invited  him 
to  say  a  few  words. 

It  did  seem  almost  too  wonderful  to  be  true  when  the  third  of  the  friends 
entered  whom  Mr.  Taylor  had  desired  to  meet  before  leaving — especially 
when  it  transpired  that  two  of  the  three  had  not  been  in  the  building  for 
months  and  had  no  idea  that  he  was  there.  "  They  were  indeed  sent 
by  the  Lord,"  was  Mr.  Frost's  comment,  "  and  v/c  were  never  disappointed 
in  the  choice  He  had  made  " 


WHAT  IS  BETWIXT  CHRIST  AND  ME      455 

"  He  told  us  with  a  father's  feeUngs,"  Mr.  Taylor  loved  to 
recall,  "  what  his  daughter  had  been  in  the  home,  to  him  and 
to  her  mother  ;  what  she  had  been  in  the  mission-hall  in  which 
he  worked,  and  something  of  what  it  meant  to  part  with  her 
now. 

"  '  But  I  could  only  feel,'  he  said,  '  that  I  have  nothing  too 
precious  for  my  Lord  Jesus.  He  has  asked  for  my  very  best ; 
and  I  give,  with  all  my  heart,  my  very  best  to  Him.' 

"That  sentence  was  the  richest  thing  I  got  in  America,  and 
has  been  an  untold  blessing  to  me  ever  since.  Sometimes  when 
pressed  with  correspondence  the  hour  has  come  for  united  prayer, 
and  the  thought  has  arisen,  ought  I  not  to  go  on  with  this  or 
that  matter  ?  Then  it  has  come  back  to  me — '  Nothing  too 
precious  for  my  Lord  Jesus.'  The  correspondence  has  been  left 
to  be  cared  for  afterwards,  and  one  has  had  the  joy  of  fellowship 
unhindered.  Sometimes  waking  in  the  morning,  very  weary, 
the  hour  has  come  for  hallowed  communion  with  the  Lord  alone  ; 
and  there  is  no  time  like  the  early  morning  for  getting  the  harp 
in  tune  for  the  music  of  the  day.  Then  it  has  come  again — 
'  Nothing  too  precious  for  my  Lord  Jesus,'  and  one  has  risen  to 
find  that  there  is  no  being  tired  with  Him.  That  thought  also 
has  been  a  real  help  to  me  when  leaving  my  loved  ones  in  England : 
indeed,  I  could  never  tell  how  many  hundreds  of  times  God  has 
given  me  a  blessing  through  those  words." 


CHAPTER  XXXI 

THE   CROSS   DOES   NOT  GET   COMFORTABLE 

1888-1889.     Aet.  56-57. 

Crossing  the  Rocky  Mountains  by  Canadian  Pacific  was  a 
wonderful  experience  to  Mr.  Taylor.  The  greatness  of  the 
country  as  it  unrolled  before  him  was  in  keeping  with  the 
greatness  of  the  possibilities  he  had  felt  among  Canadian 
as  well  as  American  Christians  for  the  rapid,  world-wide 
extension  of  the  kingdom  of  God.  Wonderful,  too,  was  it 
to  have  with  him  the  party  so  unexpectedly  given  for  China 
and  the  Inland  Mission. 

"  We  are  so  happy  and  united,"  he  wrote  to  Mrs.  Taylor 
en  route.  "  You  would  enjoy  knowing  the  dear  young  workers 
God  has  given  us,  in  the  fresh  bloom  of  consecration  and  love. 
May  it  never  wear  off. 

"  Every  day  I  feel  more  thankful  for  each  member  of  our 
band.  .  .  .  The  little  difficulties  of  travel  only  bring  out  char- 
acter more  clearly,  and  show  how  good  God's  choice  has  been. 

"  You  can  have  little  idea  how  mightily  the  Spirit  of  God 
has  been  and  is  working." 

The  voyage  across  the  Pacific  was  made  the  most,  of j  f px„ 
helpful  talks  and  Bible  readings  with  his  companions,  in 
which  he  sought  to  prepare  them  for  all  that  lay  ahead. 
The  consciousness  was  much  with  him,  already  referred  to 
in  letters  to  Mr.  Stevenson,  of  the  certainty  of  opposition 
from  the  powers  of  evil.  For  years  the  Mission  had  been 
carried  forward  on  a  wave  of  unparalleled  success.  During 
the  period  of  the  Seventy  its  membership  had  doubled,  as 
we  have  seen,  and  since  then  it  had  more  than  doubled  again, 
without  the  addition  of  this  latest  party.     And  what  oppor- 

456 


THE  CROSS  DOES  NOT  GET  COMFORTABLE  457 

tunities  for  enlargement  did  not  their  coming  suggest  ? 
But  experience  had  taught  him  that  for  every  time  of 
^^rosperity  and  blessing  one  of  special  trial  was  in  store, 
though ^evenlie  can  hardly  have  anticipated  how  long  and 
testing  the  conflict  now  before  them  was  to  prove. 

At  Yokohama  it  began,  even  before  they  came  in  sight 
of  China.  For  there  news  was  received  of  the  death  from 
hydrophobia  of  Herbert  Norris,  the  beloved  Head  of  the 
Chefoo  School,  who  in  protecting  his  boys  from  a  mad  dog 
had  himself  been  bitten  ;  and  that  also  of  Adam  Dorward, 
the  devoted  pioneer  of  Hu-nan  and  a  member  of  the  China 
Council.  To  one  of  Mr.  Taylor's  tender  affections,  who 
could  so  well  appreciate  the  loss  that  had  befallen  the 
Mission,  the  news  was  a  blow  indeed. 

"  I  am  almost  overwhelmed,*'  he  wrote  to  Mrs.  Taylor  that 
October  day.  "  *  M37  soul  is  even  as  a  weaned  child.'  I  want 
to  be  alone  with  God  and  quiet  before  Him.  May  He  bless  you 
.  .  .  and  all  at  home.  May  He  make  us  more  holy ;  more  fit 
for  His  service  here  as  there." 

Meanwhile  further  sorrow  had  been  permitted,  and  on 
landing  in  Shanghai  Mr.  Taylor  learned  not  only  of  the 
death  of  a  young  worker  of  much  promise,  but  that  in  the 
Home  to  which  he  was  taking  his  fellow-travellers  another 
was  even  then  nearing  the  end  of  life's  journey.  Three  men 
within  a  month,  and  now  this  woman  of  a  gracious  spirit, 
who  had  only  come  out  in  the  Hundred  !  Jt^was  a  time  of 
heart-searching  before  God,  to  see  why  the  hand  of  His 
protection  had  been  in  measure  withdrawn,  and  a  time  also 
in  which  the  cheer  of  the  American  Party  was  sorely  needed. 

Jesus,  Saviour,  pilot  me 
Over  life's  tempestuous  sea 

was  a  new  h5min  in  those  days,  and  one  they  often  sang 
together. 

As  a  mother  stills  her  child 

Thou  canst  hush  the  tempest  wild. 

Boist'rous  waves  obey  Thy  will, 

When  Thou  say'st  to  them,  "  Be  still." 

Wondrous  Sovereign  of  the  sea — • 

Jesus,  Saviour,  pilot  me. 


458         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Times  without  number  during  the  months  that  followed 
did  that  prayer  go  up  from  storm-stressed  hearts  in  the 
mission-house  at  Shanghai,  where  Mr.  Taylor  was  detained 
by  apparently  endless  troubles.  He  had  come  out,  as  Mr. 
Stevenson  remarked,  *'  full  of  faith  and  hope,"  to  do  much 
in  the  way  of  consoHdation.  America  had  greatly  encour- 
aged him.  His  visit  there  had  been  providentially  timed  to 
coincide  with  a  stage  in  the  Mission's  development  when  its 
material  basis  must  take  more  adequate  form.  The  purely 
native  houses  of  earlier  days  had  to  be  superseded,  in  the 
ports  at  any  rate,  by  adequate  receiving  homes  and  business 
centres.  All  over  the  field  young  workers  were  getting  into 
harness,  and  still  larger  reinforcements  were  expected. 

"  God  is  with  us  of  a  truth,"  he  had  written  to  Mr.  Stevenson 
from  Montreal,  "  and  will  give  us  to  see  far  greater  things.  I 
hope  after  conference  with  you  to  be  able  to  look  forward  to  a 
speedy  doubHng  of  our  staff.  Nothing  less  I  am  satisfied  should 
be  aimed  at,  even  in  the  near  future  ;  and  I  trust  that  that 
doubling  will  only  anticipate  a  doubling  again.  There  ought 
to  be  no  difiiculty  in  getting  at  least  three  hundred  good  v/orkers 
from  the  States  and  Canada.  ..." 

There  was  scarcely  a  grey  head  in  the  Mission  in  those 
days,  and  under  Mr.  Stevenson's  enthusiastic  leadership  in 
China  "  everything  seemed  possible."  Was  there  a  danger, 
perhaps,  of  growing  too  fast  for  the  spiritual  well-being  of 
the  work  or  the  faith  of  its  supporters  ? 

"  It  was  a  dark  and  tr5dng  time  that  winter,"  recalled  the 
Deputy  Director.  "  There  had  been  so  much  success,  such  rapid 
extension.  We  were  going  ahead  full  sail  set,  before  a  favourable 
breeze.  Ballast  was  needed,  though  at  the  time  we  could  not 
see  it,  and  the  prolonged  sickness  and  trial  that  surrounded  us 
seemed  mysterious  indeed." 

Never  was  day  of  fasting  and  prayer  more  timely  than 
that  which  ushered  in  1889.  ^^w  Year's  Eve  had  been  set 
apart,  according  to  the  custom  of  the  Mission,  for  thus 
waiting  upon  God,  and  when  it  came  the  need  was  found  to 
be  more  urgent,  even,  than  had  been  anticipated.  For  only 
the  day  before  the  accumulated  trials  of  previous  weeks  had 
been  surpassed  by  the  arrival  of  the  saddest  party  ever 


THE  CROSS  DOES  NOT  GET  COMFORTABLE  459 

received  from  England.  On  the  voyage  out  one  of  the  new 
workers  had  had  a  shock  which  resulted  in  temporary 
insanity,  and  on  landing,  her  condition  was  that  of  acute 
mania.  No  asylums  were  to  be  found  in  China,  even  in  the 
foreign  Settlements,  and  she  had  to  be  cared  for  in  the  already 
crowded  premises  the  Mission  was  renting  in  Shanghai.  At 
the  same  time  another  bright,  beautiful  girl  w^as  stricken 
down  at  an  inland  station  with  black  small-pox,  and  the  life 
of  both  seemed  to  hang  in  the  balance.  Few  among  the 
younger  Missionaries  was  more  loved  and  valued  than 
Maggie  M'Kee,  and  it  was  with  the  keenest  sorrow  Mr. 
Taylor  heard  of  her  death  after  six  days  of  suffering.  Mean- 
while a  telegram  had  been  received  from  Hongkong  telling 
of  the  serious  illness  of  Mr.  William  Cooper  of  the  China 
Council.  After  furlough,  he  was  returning  to  the  province 
of  An-hwei,  in  vv^hich  his  experience  and  ripeness  of  Christian 
character  were  greatly  needed,  but  double  pneumonia  had 
supervened  upon  illness  by  the  way,  and  it  was  doubtful 
whether  he  could  live  to  reach  Shanghai. 

"  We  are  passing  through  wave  after  wave  of  trial,"  Mr. 
Taylor  wrote  on  January  11.  "  Each  day  ,  has  its  full  quota. 
God  seems  daily  to  be  saying,  '  Canl^ou  say,  "  even  so,  Father," 
to  'tJt'af7 '^'"^BuT'T^e  sustains. and  will  sustain  the  spirit,  however 
InpirTi  Ififi  flp<^1irmav  fail.  Our  house  has  been  a  hospital  ;  it 
is  now  an  asylum.  All  that  this  means  the  Lord  only  knows. 
.  .  .  The  night  and  day  strain  are  almost  unbearable.  .  .  .  But 
I  know  the  Lord's  v/ays  are  aU  right,  and  I  would  not  have  them 
othermse." 

"  There  is  absolutely  nothing  to  be  done,"  he  added  a  week 
later,  "  but  to  bear  the  trial,  while  using  proper  means,  and 
wait  on  God.  There  are  no  asylums,  and  she  could  not  be  taken 
to  sea.  So  whatever  time  and  care  the  case  claims  must  be  given, 
and  it  must  be  pleasing  to  the  Lord  for  us  to  be  so  occupied.  .  .  . 

He_jnakes  nq_mistakes.     He  can  m^  Even  now  we^ 

accept  with  thankfulness  His  dealings,  and  soon  wdth  joy  shall 
see  the  deep  purposes  of  wisdom  and  love,  wrought  out  by  all 
that  is  so  mysterious  at  present." 

But  more  serious  than  these  troubles  in  China  were 
anxieties  that  pressed  upon  him  from  another  quarter. 
Friends  of  the  Mission  in  England,  it  appeared,  including 


46o         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

some  of  the  London  Council,  were  concerned  about  the  steps 
taken  in  America.  Not  having  been  on  the  spot,  they  were 
unable  as  yet  to  reahse  the  guidance  given  or  the  value  of  the 
work  developed.  It  was  natural,  perhaps,  that  they  should 
fear  lest  responsibilities  taken  up  quickly  should  be  as 
quickly  forgotten  ;  and,  moreover,  no  one  had  as  yet  fore- 
seen the  adaptability  of  the  Mission,  on  account  of  its  special 
form  of  government,  to  relations  of  an  international  char- 
acter. The  principle  of  control  on  the  field — the  direction  of 
the  work  not  from  a  distance  but  by  experienced  leaders  in 
China — could  not  but  constitute  Shanghai  the  headquarters 
of  the  Mission  rather  than  London,  making  it  possible  for 
Mr.  Taylor  or  his  representatives  there  to  work  with  auxiliary 
Councils  in  any  part  of  the  world,  just  as  with  the  original 
Council  at  home.  This  natural  apphcation  of  one  of  the 
cardinal  principles  of  the  Mission  came  as  a  surprise,  however, 
to  those  who  had  hitherto  never  dreamed  of  such  develop- 
ments. Even  the  necessity  for  the  China  Council  had  hardly 
yet  been  fully  conceded  ;  and  that  it  should  come  to  occupy 
a  central  position,  with  affiliations  in  America  and  perhaps 
elsewhere,  practically  independent  of  the  mother-country, 
was  no  Httle  cause  for  concern.  So  hazardous  did  it  appear, 
indeed,  to  the  best  interests  of  the  work,  that  some  felt  they 
might  have  to  resign  from  the  Council  rather  than  consent 
to  it,  even  though  this  would  involve  for  Mr.  Taylor  as  well 
as  themselves  the  severance  of  relations  among  the  oldest 
and  most  valued  they  possessed. 

Needless  to  say,  the  position  was  a  critical  one,  and  caused 
the  leader  of  the  Mission  deep  concern.  More  sure  he  could 
not  be  as  to  the  guidance  given  in  America.  Step  by  step 
he  had  been  led,  almost  compelled,  to  accept  the  party  that 
had  accompanied  him,  and  to  appoint  as  Secretaries  and 
provisional  Council  those  who  had  been  so  remarkably 
provided.  Go  back  upon  it  he  could  not,  without  going 
back  upon  what  he  had  assuredly  gathered  to  have  been  the 
will  of  God.     But  how  go  forward  at  such  a  cost  ? 

"  As  to  the  American  question,"  he  wrote  to  a  leading  member 
of  the  Council  in  February,  "  I  shall  be  glad  of  your  views  when 
you  have  time  to  write  them,  but  without  a  visit  to  America  it 


THE  CROSS  DOES  NOT  GET  COMFORTABLE  461 

is  difficult  fully  to  understand  the  matter.  I  should  have  been 
as  fearful  as  you  are,  if  I  had  not  been  there.  ...  I  purposely 
made  all  the  arrangements  tentative,  pending  my  return  to 
England  and  having  the  opportunity  for  full  conference  about 
them.  .  .  .  My  increasing  desire  is  to  please  God.  So  far  as 
I  know  my  own  heart,  this  is  my  only  wish  in  the  matter.  .  .  . 

I  thirst  for  Thee,  O  God,  for  Thee. 

Oh  draw  me  nearer,  nearer  still  I 
For  evermore  Thine  own  to  be. 

My  will  all  lost  in  Thy  sweet  will. 
As  pants  the  hart  for  cooling  streams. 

So  pants  my  soul,  O  God,  for  Thee  ; 
As  sends  the  sun  its  cheering  beams. 

So  let  Thy  Spirit  shine  in  me." 

But  it  was  in  letters  to  Mrs.  Taylor  that  the  manifold 
anxieties  he  was  passing  through  found  most  expression. 

"  The  Lord  is  sending  a  very  flood  of  trials,"  he  wrote  in 
January.  "  No  doubt  they  are  all  needed.  We  might  be  Hfted 
up,  perhaps,  or  lose  spiritual  life  and  power,  if  success  were 
unaccompanied  by  disciphne." 

And  in  February  : 

Satan  is  simply  raging.  He  sees  his  kingdom  attacked  aU 
over  the  land,  and  the  confhct  is  a^\^ul.  But  that  our  Com- 
mander is  All-mighty,  I  should  faint.  I  think  I  never  knew 
anything  hke  it,  though  we  have  passed  through  some  trying 
times  before. 

Satan  often  says,  "  All  these  things  are  against  you  "  ;  but 
God's  Word  is  true  and  says  the  opposite. 

"  I  am  more  and  more  desirous  to  do  God's  will ;  to  be  pleasing 
to  Him,  and  that  at  all  costs. 

It  was  not  all  dark,  however,  for  in  January  (1889)  Mr. 
Taylor  was  able  to  write  of  the  spiritual  Hfe  of  the  Mission 
as  "  higher  than  ever  before,"  and  that  "  glad  tidings  of 
souls  won  for  Christ  and  very  real  progress  in  many  directions 
cheer  us  amid  our  trials.'*  In  March  the  pressure  was  again 
so  great  that  in  asking  for  renewed  earnestness  in  prayer  at 
home  he  said  :  "It  seems  as  if  every  native  Christian  and 
helper  as  well  as  missionary  were  being  assailed."  Yet,  in 
the  midst  of  it  all,  he  and  many  of  his  fellow-workers  were 
learning  deeper  lessons  of  the  sustaining  power  of  God. 


462         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

*'  The  cross  does  not  get  comfortable,"  is  one  revealing 
sentence  in  a  letter  of  this  winter,  "  but  it  bears  sweet  fruit." 
How  ti-uly  it  was  so  in  Mr.  Taylor's  experience  may  be 
gathered  from  the  recollections  of  one  who  was  much  with 
him  at  the  time. 

"  I  never  went  through  such  a  distressful  period,"  said  Mr. 
Stevenson  of  1888-89  ;  "  everything  seemed  crowded  into  those 
terrible  months.  I  do  not  know  what  we  should  have  done  with- 
out Mr.  Taylor  ;  but  oh,  the  look  on  his  face  at  times  1  The 
special  day  of  fasting  and  prayer  (a  second)  was  a  great  help. 
We  never  found  it  to  fail.  _  In  all  our  troubles,  in  aU  pur  forward 
movements,  in  times  of  need,  whether  as  to  funds  or  spiritual 
blessing,  we  always  had  recourse  to  fasting  and  prayer,  and  with 
a  quick  response. 

"  One  thing  that  deeply  touched  me  at  this  time  was  Mr. 
Taylor's  evident  and  intense  longing  to  walk  uprightly  before 
God.  He  would  go  all  lengths  to  do  the  right  thing  and  put 
away  misunderstandings.  Early  this  spring,  when  our  troubles 
were  at  their  height,  he  was  burdened  about  the  lack  of  cordialit}^ 
between  ourselves  and  two  former  members  of  the  Mission  who 
were  still  in  Shanghai.  The  trouble  had  arisen  during  one  of 
Mr.  Taylor's  absences  in  England,  but  he  could  not  leave  it 
with  simply — 

"  '  They  were  wrong,  and  we  did  what  we  could  at  the  time.' 

"  He  wrote  a  note  saying  he  would  be  glad  to  call  upon  them 

and  talk  matters  over,  greatly  desiring  that  any  bitterness  of 

feeling  might  be  removed.     On  the  4th  of  March,  I  remember, 

he  spent  a  long  evening  wdth  them,  going  over  the  whole  story. 

i  It  must  have  been  very  painful,  for  their  attitude  was  far  from 

\  conciliatory,  but  it  ended  right.     He  was  able  to  have  prayer 

with  them,  and  friendship  was  restored. 

"  Oh,  his  was  a  Hfe  that  stood  looking  into — searching  through 
and  through  !  Get  a  man  like  Mr.  Taylor,  and  you  could  start 
'any  mission  to-morrow.  It  was  most  wonderful — his  Hfe.  I 
:  never  knew  any  other  so  consistent;  and  I  watched  him  year 
;  in  and  year  out,  and  had  exceptional  opportunities  for  doing 
■  so.  He  walked  with  God  ;  his  hfe  bore  the  flight  all  through. 
[And  he  was  so  gracious  and  accessible  I  Day  or  night,  literally 
;  at  all  hours,  he  was  ready  to  help  in  sickness  or  any  trouble. 
'iFor  self-denial  and  practical  consecration,  one  could  not  but 
4eel,  he  stood  alone." 

A  sheet  of  notepaper  bearing  a  few  lines  in  Mr.  Taylor's 
writing  reveals,  perhaps,  more  than  anj^thing  else  the  secret 


THE  CROSS  DOES  NOT  GET  COMFORTABLE  463 

of  his  inward  life  at  this  time.  Found  between  the  pages  of 
his  diary,  it  brightens  the  record  with  unexpected  radiance. 
From  the  brief  entries  in  the  book  itself  one  learns  little  ; 
but  that  well-worn  paper,  used  evidently  as  a  marker  and 
moved  on  from  day  to  day,  what  does  it  not  reveal  ? 

Lord  Jesus,  make  Thyself  to  me 
A  living,  bright  Reality  :  \ 

More  present  to  faith's  vision  keen  \ 

Than  any  outward  object  seen  ;  \ 

More  dear,  more  intimately  nigh 
Than  e'en  the  sweetest  earthly  tie. 

Was  it  not  the  answer  to  this  daily  prayer  that  made 
endurance  possible  ?  "  Strengthened  by  His  Spirit  with 
power  penetrating  to  your  inmost  being  .  .  .  that  Christ 
may  make  His  home  in  your  hearts  through  faith  "  ^ — is  it 
not  the  very  experience  for  times  of  trouble  ? 

"  I  have  been  greatly  distressed,"  he  wrote  to  Mrs.  Taylor 
in  March,  "  but  all  that  is  passed  now.  God  has  spoken,  and 
my  heart  is  at  rest.  ...  I  see  no  light  as  to  the  future  of  home 
arrangements  ;  but  I  see  God,  the  hving  God  ;  and  I  love  Him 
all  the  more  for  this  trial — and  trust." 

Mar.  12  :  The  Lord  bless  and  guide  us.  This  is  the  gieatest 
trial  we  have  yet  had  :  it  will  bring  the  greatest  blessing.  Now 
the  Lord  has  taken  the  burden  off  my  shoulders,  and  He  is  going 
to  order  the  whole  thing.     It  is  His  work,  not  mine. 

Mar.  27  :  As  for  the  C.I.M.,  it  never  was  so  truly  the  Lord's 
own  work,  and  He  alone  is  aU-sufhcient — sufficient  for  the 
heartache  and  the  sorrow,  as  well  as  for  the  service. 

April  5  :  Our  hope  must  be  in  God ;  He  is  equal  to  all 
emergencies. 

^  Eph.  iii.  16,  17,  in  Weymouth's  version  :  The  New  Testament  in 
Modern  Speech. 


CHAPTER   XXXII 

WITH  WINGS  AS   EAGLES 

1889.     Aet.  57. 

It  was  with  confidence  in  God,  though  with  a  deep  sense  of 
the  gravity  of  the  situation,  that  Mr.  Taylor  prepared  for 
leaving  China  when  it  became  evident  that  home  difficulties 
could  not  be  settled  by  correspondence.  Very  little  of  all 
he  had  hoped  to  do  on  this  visit  had  been  accomplished ; 
but  the  mental  patient  was  recovering,  and  plans  for  the 
large  new  premises  in  Shanghai,  to  which  he  had  been 
devoting  much  attention,  were  finished  and  in  the  builder's 
hands.  Mission  house,  prayer  meeting  hall,  business 
quarters,  and  residences  for  the  permanent  staff  were  all  to 
be  erected  on  the  site  obtained  some  years  previously,  and 
so  thoroughly  had  the  details  been  gone  into  that  Mr. 
Taylor  knew  by  heart  the  measurement  of  every  door  and 
window  :  his  interest  being  only  exceeded  by  thankfulness 
that  the  buildings,  extensive  as  they  necessarily  were,  would 
be  no  charge  upon  the  funds  of  the  Mission. 

Facing  the  difficulties  that  awaited  him,  Mr.  Taylor 
wrote  to  a  member  of  the  London  Council  before  leaving  : 

Pray  that  in  the  reorganisation  of  our  home  work  we  may 
have  much  divine  guidance,  and  that  the  issue  of  this  great 
trial  may  be  greater  blessing  all  round.  "  All  things  work 
together  for  good  to  them  that  love  God  "  :  we  all  do  this  and 
with  all  our  hearts,  whatever  else  we  fail  in,  do  we  not  ?  So 
the  issue  is  sure. 

It  was  in  no  spirit  of  self-confidence,  however,  that  he 

464 


WITH  WINGS  AS  EAGLES  465 

went  forward,  as  may  be  seen  from  a  letter  to  Mr.  Stevenson 
when  nearing  Aden  : 

It  is  so  solemn  to  feel  that  one  may  go  out  ...  as  Samson 
did,  unconscious  that  the  Lord  has  left  one,  to  win  defeat  and 
captivity  and  blindness.  May  the  Lord  keep  me  and  keep  you 
very  near  Himself.  All  our  service  will  be  worse  than  useless 
without  that.  The  solemnity  of  our  position  as  the  representa- 
tives of  such  blessed  truths  as  we  teach  makes  me  tremble. 
But  the  Lord  will  surely,  for  His  own  Name's  sake,  keep  us. 

The  voyage  by  French  Mail,  though  specially  trying, 
afforded  opportunity  for  waiting. upon  God.  The  heat  was 
excessive,  and  a  couple  of  hundred  soldiers  taken  on  board 
at  Saigon  did  not  add  to  the  comfort  or  quiet  of  the  third- 
class  quarters.  But  the  solitary  Enghsh  traveller  was  living 
less  in  outward  things  than  in  unseen  reahties. 

"  One  is  lonely  in  the  midst  of  a  crowd  on  this  steamer," 
he  wrote  to  Mrs.  Taylor  from  the  Red  Sea  (May  9).  "  There 
are  fewer  than  usual  who  understand  EngUsh.  ...  If  our  love 
makes  us  long  so  for  the  glad  day  of  our  reunion,  how  much 
more  must  our  Master  look  forward  to  the  completion  of  His 
blood-bought  Bride  and  the  day  of  His  espousals !  Would 
that  we  were  aU  more  ahve  to  His  longings,  more  in  earnest  to 
do  all  that  in  us  hes  to  hasten  the  day  of  His  desire.  One  can 
well  understand  the  glad  *  shout  '  with  which  He  will  come  to 
claim  His  Bride,  when  His  '  long  patience  '  is  past.  Oh,  for  more 
likeness  to  Him,  more  of  His  patience,  more  fellowship  in  His 
sufferings  !     My  Darhng,  I  am  so  Uttle  like  Him  !  " 

A  very  real  sense  of  his  own  insufficiency  led  Mr.  Taylor 
to  rejoice  at  this  time  as  never  before  in  the  wonderful 
dehverance  given  to  the  Apostle  Paul,  not  from  but  in  his 
infiniiities.  On  the  passage,  "  My  grace  is  sufficient  for 
thee,"  he  had  written  shortly  before  leaving  China  : 

When-lhe-pressure-waagreatest  and  his.  own.  weakness  most 
Xelt,  the  Apostle  knew  himself  to  be  in  the  very  position  to  be 
made  an  instrument  of  blessing  to  many,  and  to  be  most 
abundantly  sustained  himself.  .  .  .  And  was  not  this  a  better 
"^answer  to  Paul's  prayers  than  the  mere  removing  of  his  "  thorn  " 
would  have  been  ?  The  latter  course  would  have  left  him  open 
to  similar  trouble  whenever  the  next  distress  came  ;  but  God's 
method  at  once  and  for  ever  delivered  him  from  all  oppression 

2H 


466         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

of  present  and  future  trials.  Hence  he  triumphantly  exclaimed  : 
'  Most  gladl}^  will  I  rather  glory  (or  rejoice)  in  my  weaknesses, 
that  the  strength  of  Christ  may  overshadow  and  cover  me."  .  .  . 
Ah,  who  would  not  wish  to  share  the  Apostle's  thorn  in  the 
flesh,  if  thereby  he  might  be  brought  in  reaUty  into  the  experience 
of  his  deUverance  from  the  oppression  of  all  weakness,  all  injury, 
all  necessity,  all  persecution,  all  distress,  and  might  henceforth 
know  that  the  very  hour  and  time  of  weakness  was  the  very 
hour  and  time  of  truest  strength  ? 

That  it  was  so  in  this  serious  crisis  is  evident  from  the 
joy  with  which  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  to  Mr.  Stevenson  of 
answered  prayer  in  connection  with  the  difficulties  that  had 
called  him  home.  From  the  very  day  of  his  arrival  (May  21) 
he  found  that  God  Himself  had  been  working  to  make  a 
continuance  of  happy  relations  possible,^  and  w^hen  the 
annual  meetings  were  held  a  week  or  two  later,  they  proved 
a  time  of  remarkable  blessing : 

"  I  think  that  all  may  now  be  put  right,"  he  wrote  to  Mr. 
Stevenson  at  the  end  of  the  month,  "  and  that  great  good  will 
result  from  our  great  trial." 

And  a  few  weeks  later  : 

July  4  :  It  is  impossible  not  to  see  in  these  tilings  the  good 
hand  of  our  God  in  answer  to  many  prayers.  I  do  not  think 
things  have  been  so  cordial  for  years.  In  all  this  there  is  abundant 
cause  for  gratitude  and  praise. 

Thus  the  storm-clouds  began  to  roll  aw^ay,  leaving 
behind  them  clearer  vision  and  hearts  more  ready  for  the 
larger  purposes  of  God.  The  development  of  the  home  work 
in  several  important  directions  was  one  immediate  result. 
A  Deed  of  Incorporation  for  the  safeguarding  of  mission 
property  was  drawn  up.  The  Council  was  strengthened  by 
the  addition  of  Mr.  Robert  Scott  as  Treasurer  and  several 
new  members.  An  Auxiliary  Council  was  formed  in  Glasgow, 
to  deal  with  Scottish  candidates,  and  a  Ladies'  Council  in 
London,  of  which  Miss  Soltau  was  appointed  Secretary  with 
entire  charge  of  a  department  for  the  help  and  training  of 
women- workers . 

*  "  Many  thanks  for  your  good  wishes  for  my  birthday,"  Mr.  Taylor 
TiTTote  to  Mr.  Stevenson  some  weeks  later.  "  I  reached  England  on  that 
day,  and  found  the  stone  already  rolled  away." 


WITH  WINGS  AS  EAGLES  467 

In  the  midst  of  these  and  other  arrangements,  and  with 
invitations  for  meetings  pressing  upon  him,  it  was  not  easy 
for  Mr.  Taylor  to  cross  the  Atlantic  again  for  the  Niagara 
and  Northfield  Conferences.  But  a  visit  to  America  seemed 
necessary,  to  strengthen  the  relations  between  the  oldest 
and  newest  departments  of  the  work,  and,  armed  with  a 
cordial  letter  of  welcome  to  the  Toronto  Council  from  the 
Council  in  London,  he  set  out  early  in  July.  Of  the  quickened 
hopes  stirring  within  him,  and  the  way  in  which  he  was 
pressing  on  to  know  more  of  the  wonder-working  power  of 
God,  some  impression  may  be  gained  from  a  letter  to  Mrs. 
Taylor  before  leaving  Queenstown  Harbour  (July  6)  : 

I  am  hoping  to  give  special  time  to  prayer  and  Bible-study 
on  the  voyage.     Darling,  I  do  want  our  whole  life  to  be  an 
ascending  plane— not  resting  in  anything  we  have  learned  01 
lelt  or  attained,  but  a  pressing  on  and  up.  .  .  .  God  has  been 
faithful  to  us,  as  far  as  we  have  gone  out  on  His  promises  and.  .^ 
have  trusted  His  faithfulness  ;   but  how  little  we  have  done  so^P  ;  Jl 
How  small,  after  all,  have  been  our  prayers  and  expectations,     '  •* 
^eing  we  have  such  a  God  to  do  with. 

What  would  a  great  Sovereign  think  of  a  proposal  to  add  one 
hundred  soldiers  in  the  course  of  a  year  to  his  army  of  invasion 
in  a  country  hke  China  ?  We  must  get  on  to  a  higher  plane  of 
thought  altogether,  and  of  prayer,  if  we  are  to  walk  worthy  of 
God  and  deal  in  any  sensible  way  with  the  world's  crying  need. 
Let  us  ask  in  faith  for  such  workers  for  every  department  as 
shaU  be  fit  and  able  to  deal  worthily  with  their  work  at  home, 
in  America,  in  China,  and  for  such  an  enduement  of  power  as 
shall  make  the  feeblest  mighty  and  the  strong  as  the  angels 
(messengers)  of  God.  Is  it  too  much  to  expect  of  Him,  too  much 
to  ask  for  His  glory  ?  May  God  save  us  from  limiting  the  Holy 
One  of  Israel.  May  He  open  our  eyes  to  see  Himself,  and  help 
us  to  go  forward  on  the  strength  of  His  '  Have  not  I  sent  thee  ?  " 
We  go  working  on,  feeling  our  weakness  and  personal  need  ; 
feeling  the  weakness  and  poverty  of  the  Church  and  the  un- 
reality or  at  least  extreme  shallowness  of  its  consecration  ;  feel- 
ing the  power  of  the  one,  united  front  of  the  world,  the  flesh 
and  the  devil.  Do  we  not  want  more  really  to  meditate  on  God  ; 
to  gaze  on  Him  ;  to  take  in  what  we  are  even  now  competent 
to  take  in  of  His  greatness.  His  resources.  His  assurances  and 
promises  ?  Dwelling  thus  on  Him,  should  we  not  be  enabled 
to  grasp  more  of  the  heights  and  depths  of  His  character  and 
purposes,  and  be  more  ready  and  able  to  do  His  will  ?     May  He, 


468         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Darling,  in  our  separation,  become  all  the  more  to  us,  that  we 
may  first  be  more  to  Him,  and  then  through  Him  to  our  work 
and  to  each  other. 

In  the  little  town  of  Attica  two  other  hearts  had  been 
learning  similar  lessons,  hearts  united  in  an  equally  deep 
bond  of  love.  Circumstances  had  changed  a  good  deal  for 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Frost  since  Mr.  Taylor's  previous  visit,  but 
their  home  seemed,  if  anything,  more  attractive  than  before. 
The  marriage  gift  of  his  father,  it  had  been  beautified  by  the 
addition  of  panelled  wooden  ceilings,  to  replace  the  plaster 
ones  which  had  fallen  in  the  lower  rooms,  a  detail  that  was 
to  have  a  good  deal  to  do  with  the  direction  of  their  lives 
at  this  time.  With  every  comfort  in  their  surroundings,  a 
large  circle  of  friends  and  nothing  but  happiness  in  their 
children,  there  seemed  little  of  earthly  good  left  to  desire. 
But  an  unseen  Hand  vrds  stirring  up  this  nest,  and  Mr. 
Taylor's  second  visit  found  them  in  the  midst  of  strange 
experiences. 

For  their  income,  which  had  hitherto  been  amply  sufficient, 
had  suddenly  been  cut  off  through  the  failure  of  a  flourishing 
business.  At  his  father's  express  desire,  Mr.  Frost  had 
given  up  his  own  business  some  years  previously,  to  devote 
himself  entirely  to  evangelistic  work.  The  father  was  well 
able  to  supply  the  needs  of  the  family,  and  rejoiced  to  have 
fellowship  in  this  way  in  his  son's  service  for  the  Lord.  But 
now,  to  his  sorrow,  this  was  no  longer  possible.  To  have 
gone  back  into  secular  employment  would  have  greatly 
curtailed  Mr.  Henry  W.  Frost's  usefulness  as  an  evangelist, 
and  would  have  necessitated  his  giving  up  much  active 
participation  in  the  work  of  the  CT.M.  This  he  could  not 
feel  to  be  the  will  of  God,  after  all  the  way  in  which  he  and 
Mr.  Taylor  had  been  led,  and  it  practically  came  to  be,  as 
he  expressed  it,  a  question — "  Which  father  are  you  really 
trusting  ?  " 

Outside  the  immediate  family  no  one  knew  of  their 
position,  and  both  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Frost  saw  it  to  be  a  special 
opportunity  for  putting  to  the  test  not  their  faith  only  but 
the  definite  promises  of  God.  A  few  months  previously  they 
had  determined  never,  under  any  circumstances,  to  go  into 


WITH  WINGS  AS  EAGLES  469 

debt.  Amid  the  apparent  comfort  of  their  surroundings, 
therefore,  and  with  wide  margins  of  credit  in  the  stores  of 
the  httle  town,  they  found  themselves  directly  dependent 
upon  their  Heavenly  Father  even  for  daily  bread.  How 
searching  as  well  as  precious  were  the  experiences  through 
which  they  were  learning  more  of  His  infinite  faithfulness 
is  a  story  to  itself  that  we  may  not  enter  upon  here.  Suffice 
it  to  say  that  their  joy  in  God  was  growing  deeper  and  their 
desire  to  be  wholly  engaged  in  His  service  stronger,  although 
they  little  anticipated  the  sacrifice  that  would  be  involved. 
Great  was  the  encouragement  to  Mr.  Frost,  as  to  Mr. 
Taylor,  of  the  welcome  with  which  they  were  received  at  the 
Niagara  Conference  of  this  summer.  The  interest  in  China 
seemed  deeper  and  the  sympathy  for  the  Inland  Mission 
stronger  than  the  previous  year.  The  gifts  of  1888  for  the 
support  of  American  workers  were  largely  exceeded,  and 
many  new  friendships  were  formed  and  old  ones  strengthened. 

"  The  warm  welcomes  I  have  had,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  before 
leaving,  "  and  the  assurances  from  one  and  another  that  great 
and  permanent  blessings  have  resulted  from  my  former  visit 
are  very  cheering.  It  does  seem  so  wonderful  that  God  can  use 
even  me.     May  He  do  so  more  and  more,  for  His  own  glory." 

Mr.  Taylor's  chief  object  in  coming  over  being  the 
settlement  of  the  work  upon  a  permanent  basis,  he  gave 
much  time  to  meetings  with  the  Council  and  intercourse  with 
its  individual  members.  The  number  of  the  latter  was 
increased,  and  Mr.  Sandham  finding  it  necessary,  on  account 
of  many  engagements,  to  retire  from  the  position  he  had 
held,  Mr.  Frost  was  invited  to  assume  the  sole  responsibility 
as  Treasurer  and  Secretary,  making  his  home  in  Toronto. 

So  this  was  what  it  had  all  been  leading  to  !  In  view  of 
recent  experiences,  he  was  himself  prepared  for  a  life  of 
faith  with  regard  to  temporal  suppHes  ;  but  he  knew  that 
Mrs.  Frost  would  feel  giving  up  their  lovely  home  very  keenly, 
on  account  of  the  children. 

"  One  day  as  I  was  in  the  parlour,  resting,"  he  wrote  of  this 
critical  time,  "  my  wife,  unknown  to  me,  was  waiting  upon  God 
in  her  own  room  for  guidance.  While  thus  engaged  she  was 
led  to  opei>her  Bible  and  to  read  in  the  book  of  Haggai ;    and 


470         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

she  had  not  read  long  in  this  portion  of  Scripture  before  she  had 
the  Hght  for  which  she  had  been  so  earnestly  seeking.  A  moment 
later  I  heard  her  coming  to  me  across  the  library  and  hall.  She 
stepped  to  my  side,  and  without  a  word  laid  her  open  Bible  on 
my  knee,  pointing  as  she  did  so  to  the  fourth  verse  of  the  first 
chapter  of  Haggai.  I  looked  at  the  words  indicated  and  read 
as  follows  : 

"  '  Is  it  a  time  for  you,  O  ye,  to  dwell  in  your  ceiled  houses 
and  this  house  he  waste  ?  ' 

"  It  was  not  necessary  that  my  wife  should  say  anything  to 
explain  her  meaning  ;  the  lesson  was  self-evident.  One  look 
in  her  face  showed  me  that  the  Lord  had  won  the  victory  for 
her,  and  one  look  at  the  ceiling  overhead  settled  the  question 
finally  for  myself.  From  that  hour,  though  it  was  not  an  easy 
thing  to  do,  we  were  united  in  our  desire  to  give  up  our  home, 
in  order  that  we  might  have  part  in  the  building  of  that  spiritual 
house,  the  temple  of  Christ's  body,  which  we  knew  the  Lord 
was  waiting  to  see  completed.'* 

Gladly  would  Mr.  Taylor  have  made  it  possible  for  the 
step  to  be  taken  without  financial  difficulty ;  but  while  he 
could  give  them  enough  for  the  actual  move,  there  was  little 
over.  The  contributions  at  Niagara  and  in  other  centres, 
while  amounting  to  thousands  of  dollars,  were  almost  all 
designated  for  individual  missionaries,  and  could  not  be 
drawn  upon.  About  fifty  pounds  given  to  Mr.  Taylor  for 
his  own  use  he  felt  free  to  pass  on,  but  **  beyond  this  '*  he 
said  quite  frankly,  "  I  can  promise  you  nothing.  You  will 
have  to  look  to  the  Lord  for  supplies,  as  we  do  in  England 
and  in  China." 

**  I  confess,**  was  Mr.  Frost's  very  natural  recollection,  "  that 
Mr.  Taylor's  words  did  not  at  first  suggest  an  inviting  prospect. 
To  move  my  family  and  belongings,  to  take  a  home  in  a  strange 
city,  to  invite  a  large  number  of  candidates  into  that  home,  to 
supply  their  needs  and  our  own  and  to  carry  on  the  work  of  the 
Mission  with  httle  more  than  two  hundred  and  fifty  doUars  was 
certainly  not  a  promising  arrangement  from  an  earthly  stand- 
point. But  recent  experiences  .  .  .  had  given  me  to  understand 
that  there  was  a  factor  in  the  case  not  to  be  left  out,  and  which 
being  reckoned  upon  altered  the  proposition.  That  factor  was 
the  Lord  Himself.  Two  hundred  and  fifty  dollars  was  an5rthing 
but  a  large  sum  with  which  to  begin  such  an  undertaking  ;  but 
two  hundred  and  fifty  dollars  with  the  Lord  was  all  that  we  could 


WITH  WINGS  AS  EAGLES  471 

need.     Thus,   so   far  as  finances  were   concerned,   I   soon   felt 
prepared  to  accept  Mr.  Taylor's  offer." 

Could  he  have  foreseen  the  many  and  wonderful  answers 
to  prayer  that  were  to  bring  to  the  American  branch  of  the 
Mission  over  half  a  million  dollars  within  the  next  seventeen 
years,  and  place  at  his  disposal  property  to  the  value  of  forty 
thousand  more,  he  might  have  gone  forward  with  less  fear 
and  trembling.  But  then,  would  there  have  been  the  same 
faith  and  pray  erf  ulness,  the  constant,  close  dependence  upon 
God  which  have  made  Mr.  Frost  so  great  a  strength  to  the 
Mission  ?  Would  the  Home  in  Toronto  have  become  the 
centre  of  blessing  it  has  been,  and  the  object-lesson  to  very 
many  whose  hearts  turn  to  it  with  gratitude  from  China  and 
other  lands,  of  what  God  can  do  and  be  in  the  lives  of  those 
who  trust  Him  without  reserve  ?  ^ 

All  this  was  in  the  future,  however,  and  it  was  with 
concern  Mr.  Frost  saw  the  days  and  weeks  slip  by  of  Mr. 
Taylor's  too  short  visit.  Much  helpful  fellowship  they  had 
together  as  they  travelled  from  place  to  place,  Mr.  Taylor 
addressing  over  forty  meetings  in  eighteen  different  centres 
during  the  five  weeks  he  was  in  America.  Four  days  at 
Northfield  completed  the  programme,  and  brought  the 
Mission  again  before  many  friends  of  the  previous  summer. 
Mr.  Moody's  interest  was  so  much  deepened  that  he  offered 
the  beautiful  and  spacious  *'  Northfield  Hotel  "  during  the 
winter,  as  a  training  home  for  the  candidates  of  the  Mission, 
undertaking  to  give  himself  a  course  of  one  month's  Bible 
lessons,  while  Dr.  A.  T.  Pierson  would  give  another. 

Cheered  and  strengthened  by  many  tokens  for  good,  Mr. 
Taylor  left  America  in  August,  to  carry  out  a  full  programme 
of  meetings,  which  included  a  visit  to  Sweden  before  the 
close  of  the  year.  So  pressing  and  constant  were  his  engage- 
ments that  he  found  it  difficult  to  obtain  the  time  needed  for 
remembering  all  his  fellow-workers  daily  before  God.  Well 
he  knew  that  to  relax  prayer  was  to  open  the  way  for  the 
enemy  to  come  in  like  a  flood  ;    and  as  he  travelled  from 

*  To-day  the  American  branch  of  the  C.I.M.  is  represented  by  a 
hundred  and  fifteen  missionaries,  working  in  fifty-seven  stations  in  thirteen 
of  the  eighteen  provinces. 


472  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

place  to  place  he  literally  had  to  buy  up  every  opportunity 
for  this  unseen  but  important  work. 

"  What  line  of  thought  will  you  be  taking  to-night  ?  '* 
asked  one  who  was  to  speak  at  the  same  meeting,  after  they 
had  travelled  together  for  an  hour  or  two. 

"  I  can  hardly  tell,"  was  Mr.  Taylor's  reply.  "  I  have 
not  yet  had  time  to  think  about  it." 

"  Not  time  !  "  exclaimed  the  other.  *'  Why,  what  have 
you  been  doing  but  rest  ever  since  we  came  into  this 
carriage  ?  " 

"  I  do  not  know  about  resting,"  was  the  quiet  answer ; 
"  but  I  do  know  that  since  we  left  Edinburgh  I  have  prayed 
by  name  for  every  member  of  the  China  Inland  Mission." 

This  sort  of  preoccupation  did  not  make  him  unmindful 
of  the  interests  of  those  from  whom  he  received  hospitaUty, 
however,  as  may  be  judged  from  many  a  letter. 

"  I  can  never  forget  your  fatherly  kindness  to  me,"  v^Tote 
Mrs.  Colville  of  his  stay  in  Motherwell  this  autumn  (near  Glasgow). 
"  Often  the  very  memory  of  your  visit  refreshes  me.  There 
was  such  a  sweet  fragrance  of  Christ  in  all  your  words  and  actions 
that,  praise  God,  the  house  is  still  filled  with  the  odour  of  the 
ointment,  and  whenever  your  name  is  mentioned  our  hearts 
go  out  in  love.  I  hope  you  are  well  :  I  know  you  are  happy, 
for  you  walk  in  the  hght  of  His  countenance." 

This  was  the  attractive  power  felt  in  Scotland  just  as  in 
America,  the  unconscious  influence  that  had  had  not  a  little 
to  do  with  the  interest  in  Sweden  which  had  now  grown  to 
considerable  proportions.  Meeting  a  young  stranger  from 
that  country  one  busy  day  in  Paternoster  Row,  Mr.  Taylor 
had  gone  out  of  his  way  to  show  him  courtesy.  They  met 
again  in  Exeter  Hall — an  important  occasion  connected  with 
the  outgoing  of  the  Seventy  (1883),  when  Mr.  Taylor  might 
have  passed  the  Swedish  visitor  with  a  greeting.     But — 

"  We  had  a  conversation  after  the  meeting,"  the  latter 
recalled,  "and  Mr.  Taylor  talked  to  me  in  a  very  kind  way,  by 
which  my  heart  was  drawn  out  to  him.  He  seemed  to  be  full 
of  love." 

Further  intercourse  at  Pyrland  Road  deepened  the 
interest,  and  when  Mr.  Holmgren  returned  to  Orebro  it  was 


WITH  WINGS  AS  EAGLES  473 

as  a  staunch  friend  of  the  Inland  Mission.  First  as  editor  of 
a  religious  weekly,  then  as  Pastor  of  one  of  the  leading 
churches  in  Stockholm,  he  did  all  that  in  him  lay  to  awaken 
Swedish  Christians  to  a  sense  of  responsibility  for  the  un- 
evangelised  miUions  of  China,  among  whom  they  as  yet  had 
no  representatives.  Eric  Folke,  an  Upsala  graduate, 
deeply  conscious  of  a  call  from  God  to  that  great  field,  could 
find  no  Swedish  society  to  send  him  there.  Going  inde- 
pendently, he  was  welcomed  at  the  C.I.M.  in  Shanghai,  and 
passed  on  to  its  training  home  at  An-king  for  the  study  of 
the  language.  Six  months  later  he  wrote  to  Mr.  Holmgren 
of  his  desire  to  work  in  association  with  the  Inland  Mission, 
and  a  Committee  was  formed  in  Stockholm  to  facilitate  the 
going  out  of  others  to  join  him. 

For  some  time  this  representative  group  of  friends  had 
been  urging  Mr.  Taylor  to  visit  Sweden,  where  his  name  was 
well  known  through  Mr.  Holmgren's  paper  and  his  own 
writings.  Tied  for  time  as  he  was  by  the  second  General 
Missionary  Conference  in  Shanghai,  at  which  he  had  promised 
to  preach  the  opening  sermon,  it  was  not  easy  to  spare  a 
month  for  this  purpose  ;  but  the  Committee  was  needing 
advice  as  to  their  work  in  China,  for  which  Mr.  Taylor  felt 
in  measure  responsible,  as  it  was  to  be  carried  on  in  close 
afhUation  with  the  C.I.M. 

The  whole  thing  was  coming  about  so  naturally  that  he 
can  hardly  have  reahsed  the  widening  that  was  taking  place 
in  his  personal  ministry  and  the  connections  of  the  Mission, 
which  was  yet  to  be  linked  with  deeply  prayerful  movements 
in  many  Continental  centres  as  well  as  in  America  and 
Australasia.  With  the  Niagara  Conference  of  the  previous 
year  the  new  movement  had  begun,  and  to  the  present 
summer  may  be  traced  the  larger  vision,  the  inward  mounting 
up  "  with  wings  as  eagles,"  which  was  to  lead  to  much  of 
the  outward  development.  For  Mr.  Taylor  himself  was 
growing  with  the  growing  work.  After  the  recent  difficulties 
which  had  so  tested  and  strengthened  faith  in  God,  he  was 
full  of  longing,  as  we  have  seen,  "  to  grasp  more  of  the 
heights  and  depths  of  His  character  and  purposes,  and  be 
more  ready  and  able  to  do  His  will."     And  now,  even  before 


474         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

he  could  pay  his  promised  visit  to  Sweden,  a  fuller  revelation 
of  that  will  had  come. 

Conscious  of  a  new  call  from  God,  a  new  urgency  about 
the  work  to  which  his  hfe  was  given,  Mr.  Taylor  was  ready 
for  the  important  openings  his  northern  journey  afforded. 
New  to  him  was  the  welcome  of  Swedish  Christians,  which 
exceeded  in  its  warmth  and  hospitahty  anything  he  had 
previously  known ;  and  new  to  them  was  the  spirit  of  the 
man  with  so  great  a  burden  for  China's  perishing  millions.^ 

"  We  seldom  address  fewer  than  two  to  five  thousand  people 
daily,"  he  wrote  toward  the  close  of  the  visit,  in  which  he  was 
again  accompanied  by  his  second  son.  "  Even  in  small  places 
we  have  large  audiences.  Hundreds  could  not  get  in  last  night : 
and  some  had  come  thirty  miles  to  the  meeting.  May  great 
and  lasting  blessing  be  the  result." 

The  eagerness  with  which  many  of  the  poorer  people 
called  out  or  pressed  forward  in  those  crowded  assemblies, 
to  make  their  httle  gifts,  greatly  touched  the  visitors. 

One  dear  old  sailor  who  did  not  look  as  if  he  had  much  to 
spare,  put  into  the  collecting  plate  his  snuff-box — snuff  and  all ! 
We  were  told  that  it  had  probably  been  his  companion  for  thirty 
or  forty  years.  It  was  made  of  a  shell,  and  had  a  heavy  silver 
top  and  lid.     It  sold  that  night  for  twenty  crowns.. 

In  another  place  a  lady  who  had  been  much  moved  in  the 
meeting  came  up  and  putting  a  beautiful  watch  into  my  hand 
began  to  speak  in  English.  But  her  emotion  prevented  her 
completing  the  sentence  in  any  but  her  own  language  : 

"It  is  for  Hen  en  Jesu,"  she  said — repeating  several  times 
in  Swedish,  "  The  Lord  Jesus,  the  Lord  Jesus,  the  dear  Lord 
Jesus." 

In  the  homes  of  the  wealthy  and  in  centres  of  learning 
the  same  interest  was  found. 

"  At  Upsala  the  venerable  Dean  Torin  was  at  three  of  my 
meetings,"  Mr.  Taylor  continued  in  the  home-letters  for  which 
he  made  time  whatever  came.  "  Professor  Rudin,  one  of  the 
greatest  preachers  in  Sweden,  was  at  aU  four,  and  at  Howard's, 
too,  which  was  for  students  in  the  university.     I  had  over  two 

*  Mr.  Taylor  spent  most  of  November  in  Sweden  and  Denmark — 
passing  on  to  Norway,  and  returning  via  Hamburg  and  Rotterdam  early 
in  December  i88q. 


WITH  WINGS  AS  EAGLES  475 

thousand  hearers,  morning  and  evening.  .  .  .  Many  said  they 
would  never  forget  us,  and  I  do  think  China  will  be  remembered 
as  never  before.  ...  I  must  have  addressed  fifty  or  sixty 
thousand  persons  since  landing,  and  I  doubt  not  many  are  sajdng 
in  their  hearts, '  Here  am  I,  send  me.'  The  kindness,  hospitaUty, 
of  the  Swedes  exceeds  all  I  have  ever  seen — and  I  have  seen  a 
good  deal." 

To  Mr.  Taylor  it  came  just  as  naturally  to  be  received 
with  gracious  kindness  by  the  Queen  as  to  travel  ttiird-class 
on  the  railways — which  he  did  in  spite  of  many  a  friendly 
remonstrance.  Of  this  interesting  experience  he  wrote  to 
Mrs.  Taylor  : 

One  of  the  Ladies  in  Waiting  came  to  the  hotel  at  which  we 
were  staying  and  took  me  in  a  royal  carriage  to  the  palace,  five 
miles  out  of  Stockholm.  Very  shortly  after  our  arrival  the 
Queen  entered,  and  as  I  moved  toward  her  she  came  over  quite 
simply  and  shook  hands.  She  conversed  a  little  about  China, 
and  then  asked  for  a  Bible  reading.  Two  Ladies  in  Waiting 
and  two  nurses  from  the  Queen's  own  hospital  were  present.  I 
took  I  Kings  x.  1-13,  afterwards  showing  Her  Majesty  our  map 
of  China,  which  led  to  further  conversation  about  the  Mission. 
The  Queen  ordered  coffee  and  sandwiches  to  be  brought  in,  and 
afterwards  shook  hands  very  warmly  and  retired. 

In  Sweden  as  elsewhere  it  was  the  spirit  of  the  man  that 
added  weight  to  what  was  said.  Seen  through  the  eyes  of 
Mr.  Holmgren,  who  travelled  with  them,  this  was  if  anything 
the  more  eloquent  message. 

'IJEyerywhere  the  people  were  drawn  to  Mr.  Taylor,"  recalled 
this  helpful  friend.  "  He  showed  much  love  and  affection, 
which  also  was  returned.  It  was  a  joy  to  see  how  the  children 
gathered  round  him  in  the  families  we  visited,  although  they 
could  not  understand  what  he  said.  He  spoke  very  friendly  to 
them  and  patted  their  heads,  teUing  them  some  nice  stories. 

"  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor  felt  much  gladdened  by  his  visit  to 
Sweden.  He  gained  many  friends  ;  and  still  to-day  when  his 
name  is  mentioned  before  those  who  heard  him,  their  faces  are 
Ut  up  with  joy.  He  also  was  very  simple  and  without  preten- 
sions. On  leaving  Linkoping,  for  example,  he  was  specially 
tired.  He  had  had  several  meetings  the  day  before,  and  had 
risen  early  in  the  morning.  There  had  already  been  a  meeting 
at  eleven  o'clock,  and  at  six  there  should  be  another  in  a  town 


476         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

sixty  miles  away.  On  the  way  to  the  station,  Dr.  Howard 
Taylor  said  to  his  father  : 

"  '  You  are  very  tired  now.  Let  me  take  the  seicond-class 
ticket.' 

"In  a  so  gentle  way  Mr.  Taylor  answered  :  '  Well,  it  is  the 
Lord's  money,  you  know  ;  we  had  better  be  very  careful  about 
it.' 

"  Which  answer  made  a  great  impression  on  me.  I  have 
many  times  since  heard  this  word  repeat  itself  in  my  ears  :  '  It 
is  the  Lord's  money  :   we  had  better  be  very  careful  about  it.' 

"  Lastly,  I  may  mention  an  incident  which  also  made  a  great 
impression  upon  my  mind,  and  which  shows  his  trust  in  God. 
The  Committee  had  intended  to  meet  Mr.  Taylor's  expenses 
and  those  of  his  son  for  their  journey  by  taking  collections  at 
the  meetings.  When  I  met  them  in  Gothenburg  I  told  Mr. 
Taylor  this.     Then  he  looked  at  me,  and  with  a  smiling  face  said  : 

"  '  Well,  I  have  a  rich  Father,  you  know.  I  will  ask  Him 
about  it.  But  I  do  not  think  this  thought  is  quite  according  to 
His  will.  He  is  sure  to  provide  for  me  ;  and  I  feel  that  what  is 
gathered  by  collections  ought  to  be  used  for  the  Swedish  Mission.' 

"  I  felt  very  much  touched,  and  if  I  had  had  money  I  should 
gladly  have  paid  all  the  expenses  of  his  travels  in  Sweden.  But 
as  to  his  trust  that  these  would  be  provided,  I  said  to  myself, 
'  That  is  all  very  well  in  England  ;  but  in  Sweden  it  is  not  the 
same.' 

"  I  parted  from  Mr.  Taylor  at  Christiania.  He  crossed  for 
England  and  I  returned  to  Stockholm.     In  his  first  letter  he  said  : 

"  '  x\  few  days  after  we  had  come  to  England  I  received  a 
letter  from  some  one  in  Sweden,  I  do  not  know  from  whom.  A 
cheque  was  enclosed  for  fifty  pounds,  and  the  writer  said  that 
this  money  was  to  meet  my  expenses  and  those  of  my  son  for 
our  journey  in  Sweden,  and  if  anything  was  left  over  I  might 
use  it  as  I  liked.  If  you  know  who  has  sent  it,  please  give  them 
my  warm  thanks.' 

"  I  did  not  know  at  all  from  whom  it  was  ;  but  I  felt  very 
much  ashamed  and  humiliated  for  my  unbeUef.  At  the  same 
time  I  could  not  restrain  my  thanksgivings  to  the  Lord  for  His 
faithfulness,  and  that  His  power  is  just  the  same  in  Sweden  as  in 
England." 

The  burden  on  Mr.  Taylor's  heart  all  through  this  Swedish 
visit,  if  burden  it  could  be  called,  was  the  deeper  appre- 
hension that  had  come  to  him  of  the  meaning  of  the  divine 
command,  "  Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  Gospel 
to    every    creature."      For    more    than    forty    years    that 


WITH  WINGS  AS  EAGLES  477 

command  had  controlled  his  life,  responded  to  with  un- 
questioning obedience.  What  had  he  not  done  and  suffered  ; 
how  had  he  not  helped  and  inspired  others  in  seeking  to 
carry  it  out !  Surely  if  there  were  a  man  anywhere  who 
might  feel  that  he  had  discharged  his  responsibihty  in  this 
matter  it  was  Hudson  Taylor. 

And  yet,  that  quiet  Sunday  by  the  sea,  how  new  the 
conception  that  had  dawned  upon  him  of  the  Master's 
meaning  in  those  long-familiar  words  !  It  was  Mrs.  Taylor's 
birthday  (October  6)  and  they  were  spending  it  in  her 
father's  home  at  Hastings.  Did  it  recall  that  other  memor- 
able Sunday,  on  the  sands  at  Brighton,  when  he  had  met 
the  crisis  of  his  life,  and  had  yielded  himself  to  God  for  the 
evangelisation  of  inland  China  ? 

What  he  saw  now,  in  the  light  of  the  Holy  Spirit's  teach- 
ing, was  a  meaning  so  great,  so  comprehensive,  in  those  few 
simple  words — among  the  last  that  fell  from  the  ascending 
Saviour's  lips — that  it  seemed  as  if  he  heard  them  for  the 
first  time. 

"  I  confess  with  shame,"  he  wrote  a  few  months  later,  "  that 
until  that  moment  the  question,  What  did  our  Lord  really  mean 
by  His  command,  '  Preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature,'  had 
never  been  raised  by  me.  I  had  laboured  for  many  years,  as 
have  raany  others,  to  carry  the  Gospel  further  afield  ;  had  laid 
plans  for  reaching  every  unreached  province  and  many  smaller 
districts  in  China,  without  realising  the  plain  meaning  of  our 
Saviour's  words." 

"  To  Every  Creature  ? "  And  the  total  number  of 
Protestant  communicants  in  that  great  land  was  only  forty 
thousand.  Double  the  number,  treble  it,  to  include  ad- 
herents, and  suppose  each  one  to  be  a  messenger  to  eight  of 
his  fellow-countrymen — even  so,  only  one  million  would  be 
reached.  '*  To  every  creature  "  :  the  words  burned  into  his 
very  soul.  But  how  far  was  the  Church,  how  far  had  he 
been  himself  from  taking  them  literally,  as  intended  to  be 
acted  upon  !  He  saw  it  now,  however  ;  and  with  Hudson 
Taylor  there  was  but  one  course — to  obey. 

"  How  are  we  going  to  treat  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  \vith 
reference  to  this  command  ?  "  he  wrote  that  very  day.     "  Shall 


478         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

we  definitely  drop  the  title  Lord  as  applied  to  Him,  and  take 
the  ground  that  we  are  quite  wdlling  to  recognise  Him  as  our 
Saviour,  so  far  as  the  penalty  of  sin  is  concerned,  but  are  not 
prepared  to  own  ourselves  '  bought  with  a  price,'  or  Him  as  having 
any  claim  to  our  unquestioning  obedience  ?  Shall  we  say  that 
we  are  our  own  masters,  wilUng  to  yield  something  as  His  due, 
who  bought  us  with  His  blood,  provided  He  does  not  ask  too 
much  ?  Our  hves,  our  loved  ones,  our  possessions  are  our  own, 
not  His  :  we  will  give  Him  what  we  think  fit,  and  obey  any  of 
His  requirements  that  do  not  demand  too  great  a  sacrifice  ? 
To  be  taken  to  heaven  by  Jesus  Christ  we  are  more  than  wilhng, 
but  we  will  not  have  this  Man  to  reign  over  us  ? 

"  The  heart  of  every  Christian  will  undoubtedly  reject  the 
proposition,  so  formulated  ;  but  have  not  countless  lives  in  each 
generation  been  hved  as  though  it  were  proper  ground  to  take  ? 
How  few  of  the  Lord's  people  have  practically  recognised  the 
truth  that  Christ  is  either  Lord  of  all,  or  is  not  Lord  at  all !  If 
we  can  judge  God's  Word,  instead  of  being  judged  by  that  Word  ; 
if  we  can  give  to  God  as  much  or  as  httle  as  we  hke,  then  we 
are  lords  and  He  is  the  indebted  one,  to  be  grateful  for  our  dole 
and  obHged  by  our  compHance  with  His  wishes.  If,  on  the  other 
hand.  He  is  Lord,  let  us  treat  Him  as  such.  '  Why  call  ye  Me, 
Lord,  Lord,  and  do  not  the  things  which  I  say  ?  '  ** 

So,  all  unexpectedly,  he  came  to  the  v^dest  outlook  of 
his  life,  the  purpose  that  was  to  dominate  the  closing  decade 
of  its  active  service.  With  hair  fast  turning  grey  and  fifty- 
seven  years  of  experience  behind  him,  he  met  the  new  sense 
of  responsibility  with  the  old  faith  and  confidence.  Oh, 
the  fresh  appeal  of  the  old  incentives  ;  the  uprising  of  soul 
before  the  old  ideals  ;  the  faithfulness  to  early  vision,  to 
the  first  calhng  ;  the  undimmed  power  of  the  one,  the  ever- 
supreme  Love  !  It  is  all  there — all  the  purpose  of  youth 
without  abatement,  without  compromise,  despite  the  stern 
realities  of  four  and  twenty  years  of  the  grinding-mill  as 
leader  of  the  Inland  Mission.  It  was  fine,  fine  flour  now, 
but  none  of  it  was  lost.  *'  None  other  Name,"  none  other 
sufficiency  !  Christ  and  Him  crucified  the  one  the  only 
remedy  for  the  sin  and  need  of  the  world  ;  God,  changeless, 
inexhaustible,  behind  His  commands  and  promises  ;  divine, 
constraining  love,  the  motive-power — it  is  all  there,  first  as 
last  and  last  as  first. 


CHAPTER   XXXIII 

TO   EVERY  CREATURE 
1889-1890.     Aet.  57-58. 

Not  a  mere  human  project  but  a  divine  command  was  what 
Mr.  Taylor  saw  in  the  words,  "  To  Every  Creature,"  that 
autumn  day  by  the  sea.  They  came  to  him  with  all  the 
urgency  of  a  royal  mandate  that  brooks  no  delay.  It  was  a 
question  of  dut}^  and  no  time  was  to  be  lost.  "  If  we  begin 
at  once,"  he  realised  afresh  with  straitened  heart,  *'  millions 
will  have  passed  away  ere  we  can  reach  them." 

But  begin  what  ?  Begin  a  definite,  systematic  effort 
to  do  just  as  the  Master  said — to  carry  the  glad  tidings  of 
salvation  to  every  man,  woman  and  child  throughout  the 
whole  of  China.  Was  not  that  His  order  ?  Did  He  not 
intend  it  to  be  obeyed  ?  Nothing  if  not  practical,  Mr. 
Taylor  set  himself  forthwith  to  consider,  not  whether  the 
attempt  should  be  made,  but  simply — how  ?  And  as  he 
thought  and  prayed  he  came  to  see,  first  of  all,  that  it  could 
he  done.  There  was  no  impossibility  about  the  matter. 
Armies  of  scores  of  thousands  could  be  sent  to  the  ends  of 
the  earth  for  the  sake  of  material  conquest,  and  the  Church 
had  at  her  command  resources  fully  equal  to  the  obligations 
laid  upon  her. 

Very  simply  it  occurred  to  him,  about  the  vast  population 
to  be  reached  :  a  million  is  a  thousand  thousands  ;  given  a 
thousand  evangelists,  each  one  teaching  two  hundred  and 
fifty  people  daily,  and  in  a  thousand  days  two  hundred  and ' 
fifty  millions  would  have  the  offer  of  divine  mercy.  Surely 
a  task  that  could,  at  this  rate,  be  accomplished  in  little  over 

479 


48o         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

three  years  should  not  be  thought  of  as  chimerical  or  beyond 
the  resources  of  the  Christian  Church  !  ^ 

Many  objections,  he  knew,  could  be  raised  to  this  cal- 
culation. To  begin  with  some  might  think  it  impossible  for 
an  individual  worker  to  reach  as  many  as  two  hundred  and 
fifty  people  daily  ;  or  that,  if  they  could,  such  an  offer  of  the 
Gospel  would  accomplish  little.  Mr.  Taylor  could  not  but 
remember,  however,  the  work  he  had  himself  done  in  early 
years,  and  especially  the  many  months  spent  with  the  Rev. 
William  Burns  in  thorough  systematic  evangelisation  in 
districts  in  which  there  were  no  settled  missionaries. ,  TJiey 
had  not  found  it  difficult  to  reach  five  hundred  to  one 
thousand  people  daily — preaching  in  all  the  streets  of  a 
given  town  or  city,  and  entering  every  shop  with  books  and 
tracts.  As  night  came  on  they  would  repair  to  a  previously 
announced  tea-shop,  where  interested  hearers  could  meet 
them  for  conversation,  and  any  who  wished  to  learn  more 
were  invited  to  their  boats  for  further  talk  and  prayer.  How 
he  had  loved  the  work  ;  how  often  he  longed  to  be  in  it 
still !  And  as  to  results,  he  in  common  with  many  others 
could  recall,  among  the  brightest  converts  they  had  ever 
known,  not  a  few  who  had  truly  given  their  hearts  to  Christ 
the  first  time  they  ever  heard  of  Redeeming  Love. 

His  calculation,  moreover,  did  not  take  into  account  the 
help  to  be  given  by  the  missionaries  already  in  China — of 
whom  there  were  considerably  over  a  thousand — nor  the 
immense  and  invaluable  contribution  to  be  made  by  native 
Christians.  Forty  thousand  church  members,  not  to  speak 
of  enquirers,  would  make  the  proposition  a  very  different 
thing  from  what  it  could  be  without  them.  He  had  seen 
enough  already,  even  in  the  newly  opened  provinces,  to 
know  that  Chinese  Christians  were  ready  to  lead  as  well  as 
follow  in  such  an  enterprise. 

It  might  be  said,  however,  that  our  Lord's  injunction 
Vv^as  not  only  to  "  preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature,*'  but 
also  to  baptize  and  instruct—"  teaching  them  to  observe  all 

^  Mr.  Taylor  at  that  time  estimated  the  population  of  China  at  250 
millions,  but  pointed  out  that  if,  as  some  supposed,  it  reached  400  millions, 
the  work  on  the  scale  indicated  would  only  take  five  years  instead  of  three. 


TO  EVERY  CREATURE  481 

things  whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you  " — hence  the 
^hools,  settled  churches  and  much  besides,  in  which  the 
large  majority  of  missionaries  were  engaged.  This  Mr. 
Taylor  recognised  ;  and  none  can  have  longed  more  than 
he  to  see  such  agencies  multiplied.  It  was  not  the  suspension 
or  neglect  of  any  existing  work  he  was  considering,  but  the 
^reat^ unmet  need  beyond.  "  There  is  that  scattereth  and 
yet  increaseth,"  was  a  principle  he  had  found  deeply  true 
in  this  connection  ;  and,  after  all,  a  thousand  additional 
workers  could  not  give  themselves  for  five  years  to  a  wide- 
spread evangehstic  campaign  throughout  the  whole  of  China, 
without  fitting  themselves  all  the  more  fully  for  the  settled 
work  that  was  sure  to  follow. 

Thus  it  was  that  in  the  December  China's  Millions  an 
earnest,  practical  paper  entitled  "  To  Every  Creature " 
made  its  appearance,  outcome  of  the  deep  soul-exercise  of 
that  October  day.  Its  plea  was  for  immediate  action,  first 
in  the  realm  in  which  every  believer  may  have  power,  the 
realm  of  prayer.  What  part  the  C.I.M.  might  take  in  the 
forward  movement  Mr.  Taylor  did  not  attempt  to  determine. 
It  was  the  united,  simultaneous  action  of  all  the  societies 
that  alone  could  put  one  thousand  evangelists  in  the  field 
without  delay.  His  recent  visits  to  America  satisfied  him 
that  on  that  side  of  the  water  fully  half  the  required  number 
could  be  found. 

"  Even  if  the  Churches  were  unwilling,"  he  wrote,  "  to  take 
it  up,  are  there  not  five  hundred  Christian  workers  in  Europe 
who  might  go  out  at  their  own  charges  ?  But  shall  we  suppose 
that  the  Episcopahans  of  England,  and  the  Presbyterians  of 
Scotland  and  Ireland,  have  not  each  among  them  one  hundred 
men  and  women  fit  for  this  glorious  enterprise  ?  That  the 
Methodists  of  the  United  Kingdom  could  not  supply  another 
hundred,  and  that  Congregationalist  and  Baptist  Churches  could 
not  each  provide  a  similar  contingent  ?  We  may  feel  weU  assured 
that  the  United  States  and  Canada  would  not  be  behind,  and 
thus  the  one  thousand  evangelists  might  easily  be  forthcoming. 
How  shall  a  project  like  this  be  translated  into  practice  ?  First, 
by  earnest,  believing  prayer.  This  was  our  Saviour's  plan,  and 
it  has  been  left  on  record  for  our  guidance  :  '  The  harvest  truly 
is  plenteous,.  JiUt jthe  Jabourers  are  few  ;    pray  ye  therefore  the 

2  1 


482         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Lord  of  the  harvest  that  He  will  send  forth  labourers  into  His 
harvest.*  When  we  sought  for  the  C.I.M.  the  Seventy  and  the 
Hundred  in  prayer,  and  accepted  them  in  faith,  we  received  them 
in  due  course  from  His  mighty,  loving  hand."  ^ 

Upon  the  practical  suggestions  of  this  and  subsequent 
papers  as  to  how  the  work  could  be  done  we  must  not  dwell. 
Thorough  division  of  the  field,  method,  and  co-operation 
were  his  chief  points,  and  that  the  fullest  use  should  be  made 
of  the  Chinese  Christians.  It  was  no  question,  as  he  showed, 
of  merely  one  offer  of  the  Gospel,  in  passing,  to  those  who 
had  never  heard.  A  village  of  a  thousand  might  only  detain 
the  evangelists  two  days  (working  in  pairs),  or  a  neighbour- 
ing town  twice  as  long  ;  but  many  such  towns  and  villages 
would  keep  them  in  a  given  district  for  months,  and  inter- 
ested inquirers  would  not  lack  opportunities  for  learning  the 
Way  of  Life  more  perfectly.  "  H  one  offer  of  the  Gospel  is 
insufficient,"  he  urged  in  this  connection,  "  what  shall  we 
think  of  none  ?  " 

But  it  was  not  the  Master's  command  only  that  was 
occupying  Mr.  Taylor's  thought,  it  was  the  Master's  ex- 
ample. From  the  first,  the  feeding  of  the  four  thousand 
recorded  in  Matthew  had  been  before  his  mind.  No  sooner 
had  the  words  of  Christ,  "  To  every  creature,"  come  home  to 
him  with  power  than  the  question  had  arisen,  almost  in  spite 
of  himself,  "  From  whence  can  a  man  satisfy  these  with 
bread  here  in  the  wilderness  ?  "  The  more  he  thought  upon 
it  the  more  he  saw  the  whole  situation  in  that  one  incident — 
the  whole  problem  and  its  solution.  Travelling  out  to 
China  for  the  second  General  Missionary  Conference,  he  was 
thankful  not  only  for  the  opportunity  the  gathering  would 
afford  for  bringing  forward  the  matter  about  which  he  was 
burdened,  but  also  for  such  a  message.  What  better  subject 
could  he  take  for  his  opening  sermon  than  the  Lord  Himself 

^  "  We  cannot  take  hold  of  this  thing  in  earnest,"  was  his  conviction, 
*'  without  getting  more  than  a  thousand  ;  and  oh,  the  enlargement,  the 
enrichment  that  would  come  in  the  train  of  such  a  movement  1  Could 
China  be  blessed  alone  ?  Would  not  the  whole  world  necessarily  share 
in  the  blessing  ?  For  we  could  not  be  blessed  on  the  field  without  our 
home  churches  being  brought  into  it ;  and  if  they  were  filled  with  spiritual 
Ufe,  every  land  would  be  thought  of  and  cared  for.  The  Church  is  well 
able  to  evangelise  the  whole  world  and  to  do  it  with  rapidity," 


TO  EVERY  CREATURE  483 

face  to  face  with  that  needy  multitude — the  heart  of  Jesus 
and  His  sufficiency  ? 

He  always  did  preach  his  sermons  first  of  all  to  himself, 
and  this  was  no  exception.  ^ 

"  I  am  so  glad  of  your  prayers  for  spiritual  blessing  for  me," 
he  wrote  to  Mrs.  Taylor  from  Colombo  (April  10)  :  "  this  is  the 
one  thing  I  want  and  need  and  must  have.  .  .  .  How  constantly 
we  are  all  in  danger  of  seeking  our  own  ! ,  DarHng,  I  feel  I  have 
""been  forgetting  self-denial  in  the  true  sense  ;  hence  my  un- 
willingness to  be  separated  from  you  :  and  this,  I  fear,  has  brought 
me  under  a  cloud.  In  one  sense,  God  and  His  work  have  been 
first ;  in  another,  they  have  not  been  so  as  they  should.  I 
have  not  knowingly  neglected  the  work  ;  but  I  left  you  unwill- 
ingly instead  of  joyfully.  ...  I  do  want  to  be  whole-hearted 
in  God's  service.     May  He  work  this  in  me." 

A  httle  later  he  could  write  of  being  "  refreshed  and 
encouraged  "  (April  23),  and  that  he  had  been  helped  by  the 
preparation  of  his  Conference  sermon.  He  could  tell  in 
measure  how  the  Redeemer's  heart  was  going  out  in  yearning 
compassion  over  the  millions  in  China  who  were  "  as  sheep 
having  no  shepherd,"  because  of  the  reflected  longing  in  his 
own  soul ;  and  what  else  could  have  strengthened  and 
comforted  as  did  that  sacred  fellowship  ? 

"I  am  so  glad  it  was  a  great  multitude,"  he  wrote  in  the 
draft  of  his  discourse,  "  so  great  that  the  disciples  thought  it 
simply  impossible  to  feed  them.  Yet  the  multitude  were  in 
real  need,  and  the  need  too  was  immediate.  It  must  either  be 
met  at  once  or  not  at  all.  .  .  .  Let  us  notice  that  in  these  circum- 
stances the  presence  of  the  disciples  alone  would  not  have  sufl&ced. 
They  might  perhaps  have  said,  '  Poor  things  !  '  They  might 
have  regretted  that  they  had  not  more  bread  with  them  ;  but 
they  would  have  left  the  multitude  hungry.  But  Jesus  was 
there  ;  and  His  presence  secured  the  cariying  out  of  His  com- 
passionate purpose.  AU  were  fed,  all  were  fiUed,  all  went  away 
satisfied  and  strengthened ;  and  the  disciples  were  not  only 
reproved  and  instructed,  but  were  enriched  also." 

It  was  with  special  joy  Mr.  Taylor  dwelt  on  the  fact  of 
the  multitude  being  no  difficulty,  nor  yet  the  smallness  of 
supplies.  When  all  that  the  disciples  had  was  placed  at 
His  disposal,  the  Master  made  it  sufiice  and  more  than 
suffice.    As  for  the  disciples,  they  were  much  like  ourselves. 


484         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

They  were  slow  to  learn,  they  had  Httle  faith,  they  were 
easily  appalled  and  discouraged — but  they  were  near  to  Jesu^ 
They  were  within  sound  of  His  voice,  ready  to  obey  His  call  andL 
to  listen  to  what  He  had  to  say.  And  our  blessed  Master  did 
not  scold  nor  despise  them,  nor  dispense  with  their  services." 
He  lovingly  led  them  on  and  used  them  ;  and  He  showed  Himself 
so  truly  one  with  them  that  He  would  do  nothing  without  them. 

.  And  can  it  be  true  that  "this  same  Jesus,"  now  seated  on 
His  Father's  throne,  is  so  wonderfully  one  with  us,  and  with 
our  brothers  and  sisters  in  this  land,  that  He  will  do  nothing 
without  us?  That  He,  "the  true  Vine,"  will  bear  no  fruit 
save  through  us,  His  branches,  down  here  ?  Oh,  my  brethren, 
can  we  dwell  on  these  thoughts  without  our  hearts  burning  with- 
in us  ?  Gracious  Saviour,  is  Thy  wondrous  love  still  the  same. 
Thy  wondrous  power  still  the  same,  to  work  through  such  poor, 
unworthy  instruments  as  we  are  ?  Then  may  I  not  speak  for 
all  and  say,  "  We  do  now  present  ourselves  afresh  to  Thee,  to 
be  filled  and  taught  by  Thy  Spirit,  and  to  be,  at  any  cost,  used 
of  Thee  for  the  salvation  of  this  great  people." 

It  was  for  consecration  he  pleaded,  full  consecration  of 
all  we  have  and  are  to  Him  Who  has  given  Himself  without 
reserve  to  us. 

Now  are  we  all,  to-day,  in  just  this  relation  to  Christ  ?  Are 
we  before  Him  in  unreserved  consecration  ?  I  do  not  say  in 
strong  faith,  I  do  not  say  in  profound  intelligence,  I  do  not  say 
in  extraordinary  natural  or  spiritual  attainments,  but  I  do  say 
in  unreserved  consecration.  We  do  not  know  what  it  may  mean, 
whkt  it  may  involve,  but  we  do  not  need  to  know.  He  knows, 
that  is  enough.  We  cannot  love  ourselves  as  He  loves  us ;  we 
cannot  care  for  ourselves  as  He  cares  for  us.  Oh,  let  us  trust 
Him  fully,  and  now  if  never  before,  now  afresh  if  often  before, 
take  Jesus  as  our  Master  and  Lord,  and  with  unreserved  con- 
secration give  over  to  Him  ourselves,  our  possessions,  our  loved 
ones,  our  all.  He  is  infinitely  worthy  ;  and  He  will  infinitely 
make  up  to  us  all  we  give  to  Him.  For  in  return  for  our  little 
all.  He  will  give  us  Himself  and  His  great  all. 

And  then,  in  face  of  the  unmet  need,  Jesus  gave  thanks. 
He  was  thankful  for  the  disciples'  sake  that  they  had  given 
their  all ;  thankful  for  the  people's  sake  that  they  were  to 
be  fed  ;  thankful  that  the  Father  heard  His  prayers  always, 
and  was  now  to  be  glorified  through  His  Son.  "  Are  we 
always  thankful  for  our  difficulties  ?  "  Mr.  Taylor  ques- 


TO  EVERY  CREATURE  485 

tioned.  "  Do  we  see  in  them  the  wisdom  and  love  of  God, 
and  an  excuse,  as  it  were,  all  the  more  to  claim  His  power 
and  help  ?  " 

*'  I  do  not  know  that  we  are  told  anywhere  in  the  Bible  to 
_try_to  do  anything,"  he  continued.     "  '  We  must  try  to  do  the  . 

besjL.we  can,'  is  a  very  common  expression  ;    but  I  remember  / 

^ome  years  ago,  after  a  remark  of  that  kind,  looking  carefully 
through  the  New  Testament  to  see  under  what  circumstances  / 

^the-disciples  were  told  to  try  to  do  anything.     I  did  not  expect 
to  find  many  instances,  but  I  was  surprised  not  to  find  any.      / 
Then  I  went  through  the  Old  Testament,  very  carefully,  and  I   / 
could  not  find  that  the  Lord  had  ever  told  Old  Testament  beHevers 
to   try   to   do   anything.     There   were   many   commands   that 
appeared  impossible  to  obey,  but  they  were  all  definite  commands  : 
and  I  think  we  all  need  to  set  ourselves,  not  to  try  to  obey  our  .^-,  ,.. 
Lord  as  far  as  we  can,  but  simply  to  obey  Him."  ^Ai^^ 

When  face  to  face  with  his  audience  at  last — that  re- 
sponsible body  of  men  and  women  representing  all  the 
Protestant  societies  at  work  in  China — his  heart  overflowed 
the  bounds  of  his  written  address. 

"If  as  an  organised  Conference,"  he  urged  with  conviction, 
"  we  were  to  set  ourselves  to  obey  the  command  of  the  Lord  to 
the  full,  we  should  have  such  an  outpouring  of  the  Spirit,  such 
a^Pentecost  as  the  world  has  not  seen  since  the  Holy  Spirit  was 
outpoured  in  Jerusalem.  God  gives  His  Spirit  not  to  those  who 
longTor  Him,  not  to  those  who  pray  for  Him,  not  to  those  who 
_desi^Tp  be  filled  always — but  He  does  give  His  Holy  Spirit  '  to 
.them^that  obey  Him.'  If  as  an  act  of  obedience  we  were  to  deter- 
mine that  every  district,  every  town,  every  village,  every  hamlet 
in  this  land  should  hear  the  Gospel,  and  that  speedily,  and  were 
to  set  about  doing  it,  I  beheve  that  the  Spirit  would  come  down 
in  such  mighty  power  that  we  should  find  suppHes  springing  up 
we  know  not  how.  We  should  find  the  fire  spreading  from 
missionary  to  flock,  and  our  native  fellow -workers  and  the 
whole  Church  of  God  would  be  blessed.  God  gives  His  Holy 
Spirit  to  them  that  obey  Him.  Let  us  see  to  it  that  we  reaUy 
apprehend  what  His  command  to  us  is,  now  in  the  day  of  our 
opportunity — this  day  of  the  remarkable  openness  of  the  country, 
when  there  are  so  many  facilities,  v/hen  God  has  put  steam  and 
telegraph  at  the  command  of  His  people  for  the  quick  carrying 
out  of  His  purposes. 

"  As  to  wealth,  there  is  no  end  to  His  resources.     Poverty 


486         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

in  His  hands  is  the  greatest  wealth.  A  handful  of  meal  blessed 
by  the  Lord  is  quite  sufficient  to  accompHsh  any  purpose  the 
Lord  chooses  to  accompHsh  with  it.  It  is  not  a  question  af 
resources  at  all  to  those  who  are  following  the  Master,  doing  what 
He  has  for  them  to  do.  .  .  .  Let  us  just  obey  and  cease  to  reason  : 
and  He  Who  cares  for  us  and  for  the  multitude  to-day  will  make 
no  mistake,  and  will  not  change  to-morrow." 


CHAPTER  XXXIV 

THE   COMING  THOUSAND 
1890-1891.     Aet.  58-59. 

The  Conference  appealed  for  the  Thousand — a  thousand 
men  within  the  next  five  years,  for  all  forms  of  missionary 
work  in  China.  Taken  by  representative  leaders  of  American 
and  Continental  as  well  as  English  Societies,  this  united 
action  could  not  but  have  weight  with  all  sections  of  the 
Church  at  home  on  either  side  of  the  Atlantic. 

"  We  make  this  appeal,"  they  wrote,  "  on  behalf  of  three 
hundred  millions  of  unevangelised  heathen  ;  we  make  it  with 
the  earnestness  of  our  whole  hearts,  as  men  overwhelmed  with 
the  magnitude  and  responsibility  of  the  work  before  us  ;  we 
malce  it  with  unwavering  faith  in  the  power  of  the  risen  Saviour 
to  call  men  into  His  vineyard,  and  to  open  the  hearts  of  those 
who  are  His  stewards  to  send  out  and  support  them,  and  we 

<!shall  not  cease  to  cry  mightily  to  Him  that  He  will  do  this  thing, 

^nd^that  our  eyes  may  see  it." 

To  Mr.  Taylor,  who  was  Chairman  of  the  Committee 
appointed  to  report  the  outcome,  this  step  was  cause  for 
profound  thankfulness.  It  was  not  all  he  had  hoped  for, 
but  it  went  a  long  way  in  that  direction.  To  one  who  was 
with  him  alone  just  after  the  opening  service,  he  spoke  more 
freely  than  he  could  in  public.  His  sermon  had  deeply 
moved  the  Conference,  though  what  would  be  the  practical 
result  remained  to  be  seen. 

"  I  believe  that  the  Lord  would  have  us  appeal  for  the 
Thousand,"  he  said  earnestly.  "  I  believe  that  if  we  asked 
for  them  for  the  C.I.M.,  He  would  give  them.     But,"  he  added 

487 


488         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

with  the  quietness  of  a  God-subdued  spirit,  "  I  believe  that  He 
would  have  all  His  servants  in  China  share  both  in  the  prayer 
and  in  the  blessing." 

Meanwhile,  in  other  scenes  and  unexpected  ways,  the 
hand  of  God  was  working.  Simultaneously,  though  inde- 
pendently of  each  other,  four  ministers  in  Melbourne  had 
been  much  exercised  about  China's  spiritual  need  and  claims. 
It  was  the  very  time,  strange  to  say,  when  Mr.  Taylor  was 
writing  the  papers  afterwards  pubhshed  in  his  little  pamphlet 
"  To  Every  Creature  " — the  close  of  1889.  To  each  of  them 
came  the  conviction  that  Australian  Christians  ought  to  be 
doing  something  toward  the  evangelisation  of  the  greatest 
heathen  country  in  the  world,  and  the  heathen  country 
nearest  their  own  shores.  Of  the  four,  two  were  Episco- 
palians, the  Rev.  H.  B.  Macartney  and  his  curate,  the  Rev. 
C.  H.  Parsons  ;  one  was  a  Presbyterian,  the  Rev.  W.  Lock- 
hart  Morton,  and  one  a  Baptist,  the  Rev.  Alfred  Bird. 
After  some  weeks,  when  they  discovered  that  the  burden 
was  one  they  shared  in  common,  the  friends  met  together 
for  prayer,  and  it  was  not  long  before  they  found  that  the 
Lord  was  calling  one  of  their  number  to  give  his  own  life 
to  the  work.  His  place  could  be  filled  at  home,  but  few 
were  thinking  of  the  greater  need  beyond. 

Missions  to  the  New  Hebrides  and  New  Guinea,  as  well 
as  in  some  parts  of  India,  were  receiving  the  support  of 
Austrahan  Christians  at  this  time,  but  partly  in  consequence 
of  racial  prejudice  against  the  Chinese  in  their  midst,  nothing 
was  being  done  for  the  vast  and  populous  land  from  which 
they  came.  Yet  it  was  evident  that  these  merchants, 
market-gardeners,  and  laundry-men  represented  a  strong, 
sagacious  people,  capable  of  wonderful  response  to  the  re- 
deeming love  of  Christ.  Thus  when  the  curate  at  Caulfield, 
near  Melbourne,  desired  to  go  as  a  missionary  to  China,  it 
was  necessary  to  seek  a  connection  with  one  of  the  societies 
in  the  old  country.  This  led  to  a  correspondence  with  the 
Inland  Mission  ;  to  the  acceptance  of  Mr.  Parsons,  and  his 
sailing  for  Shanghai  shortly  before  the  Conference  which  had 
brought  Mr.  Taylor  from  England,  and  to  the  earnest  desire 
on  the  part  of  his  friends  in  Victoria  that  a  local  Council 


THE  COMING  THOUSAND  489 

should  be  formed,  to  work  in  connection  with  the  C.I.M. 
as  did  the  Councils  in  Toronto  and  elsewhere. 

Nor  was  this  all — for  in  the  neighbouring  island  of 
Tasmania  similar  results  had  been  arrived  at,  though  in  a 
different  way.  A  young  missionary  who  had  gone  out  from 
England  as  an  Associate  of  the  Mission  was  obliged,  through 
failing  health,  to  return  to  Launceston  about  the  time  that 
Mr.  Taylor  was  writing  the  above-mentioned  papers.  There 
in  the  home  of  her  mother,  Mrs.  Henry  Reed  of  Mount 
Pleasant,  and  in  the  church  built  in  her  father's  memory, 
of  which  Mr.  George  Soltau  was  then  pastor,  her  influence 
was  telling  in  a  remarkable  way.  China  in  all  its  need  was 
the  burden  on  her  heart,  and  as  she  spoke  of  it  in  meetings, 
with  the  love  and  zeal  of  one  who  was  following  in  the  foot- 
steps of  the  Master,  many  were  moved  with  the  same  spirit. 
The  result  was  that  gifts  began  to  flow  in  and  offers  of 
service,  so  that  just  as  Mr.  Parsons  set  out  from  Melbourne 
to  urge  the  formation  of  a  branch  of  the  Mission  in  Victoria, 
Mr.  George  Soltau  was  writing  to  the  same  effect,  conveying 
Mrs.  Henry  Reed's  desire  as  well  as  his  own  that  their  old 
friend,  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor,  would  visit  the  Colonies  and  form 
a  Council  for  carrying  on  the  work. 

Before  an  ansv/er  could  be  received  to  these  invitations, 
still  further  developments  had  taken  place.  Mr.  Alfred  Bird, 
on  a  visit  to  Tasmania,  had  been  welcomed  under  Mrs. 
Reed's  hospitable  roof,  and  there  had  met  her  daughter 
from  China  and  learned  the  above  circumstances.  This  was 
news  indeed  to  carry  back  to  his  friends  in  Melbourne,  who 
heartily  endorsed  his  invitation  to  Miss  Mary  Reed  and  her 
sister  to  come  over  for  a  campaign  of  meetings.  A  missionary 
from  China  was  a  novelty  in  those  days,  especially  one  who 
had  lived  in  the  interior,  wearing  native  dress  and  working 
at  her  own  charges.  Drawing-rooms,  churches,  and  college 
halls  were  thrown  open,  and  the  sisters  found  themselves 
overwhelmed  with  work,  which  resulted  in  many  gifts  and 
candidates  for  the  Mission. 

To  Mr.  Taylor,  in  the  midst  of  the  Conference,  all  this 
was  full  of  encouragement.  If  in  China  they  were  being  led 
to  ask  great  things  for  the  Lord's  work.  He  was  certainly 


490         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

showing,  under  the  Southern  Cross,  that  He  could  open  up 
fresh  channels  of  supply.  The  new  headquarters  of  the 
Mission  also,  to  which  he  had  been  welcomed  on  landing, 
encouraged  thoughts  of  development.  Commenced  as  he 
was  leaving  China  little  more  than  a  year  previously,  these 
ample  premises  were  completed  just  in  time  for  his  return, 
and  to  receive  the  members  of  the  Mission,  eighty  of  whom 
gathered  for  the  Conference  and  for  the  C.I.M,  meetings 
which  followed.  The  opening  of  the  hall  for  prayer  and 
public  services,  and  the  wedding  that  took  place  a  few  days 
later,  when  the  generous  donor  of  land  and  buildings  married 
a  fellow-member  of  the  Mission — all  the  bridal  party  being 
in  Chinese  dress — attracted  many  friends,  and  called  atten- 
tion to  the  wonderful  provision  the  Lord  had  made  for  the 
needs  of  the  growing  work. 

Upon  the  C.I.M.  Conference  we  must  not  dwell,  nor 
upon  the  subsequent  Council  Meetings,  when  for  three  weeks 
the  leaders  of  the  Mission  were  occupied  with  problems  of 
the  work  and  with  preparation  for  future  developments.  A 
cable  to  Melbourne  authorising  the  formation  of  the  pro- 
posed Council  had  put  matters  in  train  for  Mr.  Taylor's 
visit  to  the  Australian  states,  and  by  the  end  of  July  he 
found  himself  free  to  set  out.^ 

"  In  the  midst  of  much  joy  and  much  sorrow,"  he  wrote  to 
Mr.  Theodore  Howard  before  leaving,  "  the  presence  of  our  dear 
Lord  has  been  a  constant  feast  and  a  deep  rest.  The  Lord  has 
immense  blessing  in  store  for  us." 

Travelling  native  passage  to  Hongkong  to  save  expense, 
Mr.  Taylor  and  his  companions — Mr.  Montagu  Beauchamp 
and  a  secretary — could  hardly  feel  as  if  they  had  left  China. 
For  they  still  wore  Chinese  dress,  and,  crowded  between 
decks  with  many  fellow-passengers,  they  had  all  they  could 

*  The  Australian  Council,  formed  on  the  22nd  of  May  1890,  two 
days  after  the  close  of  the  Shanghai  Conference,  consisted  of  a  repre- 
sentative group  of  ministers  and  laymen :  the  Revs.  H.  B.  Macartney 
(Chairman),  S.  Chapman,  Alfred  Bird  (Hon.  Secretary),  W.  Lockhart 
Morton,  D.  O'Donnell,  and  George  Soltau  ;  the  Hon.  James  Campbell, 
Dr.  Simpson  Flett,  and  Mr.  Philip  Kitchen  (Treasurer).  At  their  first 
session  they  had  the  names  of  eight  candidates  for  the  Mission  before 
them. 


THE  COMING  THOUSAND  491 

do  to  endure  the  heat  of  those  August  days.  The  change  to 
a  native  inn  on  the  quay  in  Chinatown,  Hongkong,  while 
waiting  for  a  steamer  to  take  them  on  to  Sydney,  was  all 
the  more  welcome. 

"  They  put  us  in  an  upper  storey/*  wrote  Mr.  Beauchamp 
of  this  experience,  "so  we  had  the  full  benefit  of  the  harbour 
with  all  its  shipping,  the  shrieking  whistles  of  countless  steam- 
launches  being  thrown  into  the  bargain.  We  had  Chinese 
meals  and  paid  by  the  day — a  dollar  and  a  half  covering  every- 
thing for  the  party.  They  gave  us  a  room  to  ourselves.  It  was 
absolute  clover  I  " 

When  Port  Darwin  was  reached,  the  Superintendent  of 
the  Steamship  Company  determined  to  transfer  these 
"steerage  passengers"  to  the  almost  empty  first-class 
quarters.  Knowing  that  Mr.  Taylor  would  not  consent  to 
such  an  arrangement,  he  took  advantage  of  their  being  de- 
tained ashore  by  a  meeting  to  send  word  to  the  Captain  to 
move  their  belongings,  and  on  returning  to  the  ship  at  night 
they  were  informed  that  so  many  Chinese  were  coming  on 
board  that  they  could  no  longer  be  accommodated  in  the 
fore-cabin.  In  great  comfort,  therefore,  they  finished  the 
journey :  at  Thursday  Island,  even  Mr.  Beauchamp  dis- 
carding his  Chinese  garments  for  more  conventional  attire. 
Hardly  had  he  done  so  when,  in  the  course  of  a  stroll  ashore, 
he  met  a  friend  who  would  have  had  difficulty  in  recognising 
him  a  few  hours  previously.  In  a  pleasant  bungalow  in  that 
remote  spot,  he  saw,  or  thought  he  saw,  no  less  a  personage 
than  Henry  Drummond.  Not  feeling  quite  sure,  he  men- 
tioned his  name  aloud  in  passing,  when  the  Professor  looked 
up  quickly,  and  their  surprise  and  pleasure  were  mutual.^ 

Of  the  full  weeks  that  followed  the  arrival  of  the  party 
much  might  be  said  did  limits  of  space  permit ;  for  open 
doors  awaited  them  on  every  hand,  and  friends  old  and  new 

^  Crossing  the  Gulf  of  Carpentaria,  Mr.  Taylor  had  noted  in  his  journal 
that  it  was  a  gulf  so  large  that  the  whole  of  Ireland  might  He  upon  its 
waters  and  be  out  of  sight  of  land.  Many  of  the  islands  passed  before 
reaching  Australia  appealed  to  him  both  by  their  great  natural  beauty 
and  spiritual  darkness.  The  fine  mountains  of  Celebes  and  the  hills  of 
Timor,  wooded  down  to  the  water's  edge,  made  a  picture  not  soon  to  be 
forgotten.  Of  the  latter  he  wrote  .  "It  is  thirty-six  years  since  I  saw 
this  island  before,  and  still  nothing  is  being  done  for  the  souls  of  its  people." 


492         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

were  generous  v>dth  help  and  sympathy.  As  it  is,  however, 
the  story  of  outward  activities  must  be  curtailed  for  details 
of  greater  significance.  **  Do  not  speak  to  me,"  was  said  by 
a  thoughtful  observer  in  another  connection  :  "  what  you 
are  thunders  so  loud  that  I  cannot  hear  what  you  say." 
V/hat  message,  in  this  sense,  had  Mr.  Taylor's  quiet,  stead- 
fast, God  -  impressed  life  for  the  go-ahead  world  of  the 
Colonies  ? 

Beginning  in  Melbourne,  where  at  first  the  meetings  were 
not  large,  Mr.  Taylor  had  time  to  become  personally 
acquainted  with  the  members  of  the  Council,  and  both  there 
and  in  Tasmania  it  was  noticed  how  he  laid  himself  out  to 
help  these  and  other  friends  in  the  duties  they  had  under- 
taken. Of  a  meeting  in  the  drawing-room  at  Mount  Pleasant 
to  consider  the  important  question  of  candidates,  one  who 
took  part  in  it  wrote  : 

Never  can  I  forget  how  helpfully  Mr.  Taylor  led  us  on  to  see 
the  needs,  so  that  we  suggested  the  rules  to  be  made  and  the 
line  to  be  taken  by  the  Council,  wholly  unaware  at  the  moment 
of  how  he  was  guiding  our  thought.  But  that  was  characteristic 
of  Mr.  Taylor  !  the  grace  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  so  overflowing, 
that  those  who  hstened  were  for  the  time  being  scarcely  con- 
.  scious  of  the  wisdom  and  power  behind  his  words. 

The  same  friend  remembered  accompanying  Mr.  Taylor 
to  a  meeting  in  Launceston,  when  he  stopped  in  the  middle 
of  the  street,  and,  looking  up,  said  without  any  introduction  : 

"  There  should  be  only  one  circumstance  to  us  in  life, 
and  that  Circumstance — God." 

"  What  a  genius  he  had  for  giving  utterance  to  telling 
sentences,"  she  recalled,  "  which,  like  nails  driven  by  a  skilful 
hand,  remain.  I  do  not  think  I  ever  met  hinx  without  carrying 
away  some  such  word  ;  and  many  of  them  have  spoken  comfort 
to  my  heart  again  and  again,  and  to  others,  as  I  have  passed 
em  on."    


$. 


His.  simplicity  and  the  naturalness  of  all  he  said  and  did 
impressed  many.     As  the  meetings  became  better  known, 
large  buildings  were  filled  with  eager  hearers  ;   but  he  was 
still  the  same,  and  as  free  from  self -consciousness  as  a  child^ 
One  occasion  was  long  remembered  in  Melbourne,  when  a 


THE  COMING  THOUSAND  493 

large  Presbyterian  Church  was  crowded,  the  Moderator 
himself  occupying  the  Chair.  In  eloquent,  well -chosen 
phrases  he  enlarged  upon  what  had  been  accomplished  in 
China  through  Mr.  Taylor's  instrumentahty,  finally  intro- 
ducing him  to  the  audience  as  "  our  illustrious  guest." 

Quietly  Mr.  Taylor  stood  for  a  moment,  "  the  light  of  , 
God  on  his  face,"  as  one  who  was  present  recalled,  and  then  I 
began  his  address  by  saying  in  a  way  that  won  all  hearts  :  / 
'Uiear  friends,  I  am  the  little  servant  of  an  illustrious/ 
Master^'-- 

Children  were  drawn  to  him,  just  as  in  Sweden,  and 
indeed  wherever  he  went.  After  a  meeting  in  Government 
House,  Hobart,  where  he  was  cordially  welcomed  by  Sir 
Robert  and  Lady  Hamilton,  it  was  just  like  him  to  return 
with  pleasure  to  the  nursery  of  the  home  in  which  he  was 
entertained,  a  few  miles  out  of  the  city. 

"  He  was  just  beautiful  with  little  ones,"  wrote  his  hostess, 
Mrs.  Fagg,  formerly  of  Singapore.  "  He  took  each  child  in  our  , 
home,  and  kneeling  with  them  apart,  presented  them  one  by  one 
to  his  Heavenly  Father  for  definite  blessing.  .  .  .  Two  of  those 
children  are  now  engaged  in  missionary  work,  one  in  India  and 
one  in  China."  • 

It  was  the  latter,  little  Edith,  only  three  years  old  at  the 
time  of  Mr.  Taylor's  visit,  who  remembered  him  with  special 
affection.  A  year  or  two  later,  when  she  achieved  the 
triumph  of  knitting  a  doll's  garment,  nothing  would  do  but 
that  it  must  be  sent  to  China,  to  Mr.  Taylor — "  'Cause  I 
love  him  so  !  " 

But  it  was  on  those  of  ripe  experience  that  he  made  the 
most  impression,  and  the  deeper  the  spiritual  fife  the  more 
it  responded  to  his  own.  Thus  his  host  in  Melbourne  for  a 
fortnight,  the  Rev.  H.  B.  Macartney,  wrote  : 

He  was  an  object  lesson  in  quietness.  He  drew  from  the 
Bank  of  Heaven  every  farthing  of  his  daily  income — "  My  peace 
X-gjve junto, you."  Whatever  did  not  agitate  the  Saviour,  or 
ruffle  His  spirit  was  not  to  agitate  him.  The  serenity  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  concerning  any  matter  and  at  its  most  critical  momentl.''^^ 
ttris-was  his_ideal  and  practical  possession.  He  knew  nothing  - 
orrusli''orhurry,  "of  quivering  nerves  or  vexation  of  spirit.    He 


494         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

knew  there  was  a  peace  passing  all  understanding,  and  that  he 
could  not  do  without  it. 

Now  I  was  altogether  different.  Mine  is  a  peculiarly  nervous 
disposition,  and  with  a  busy  Ufe  I  found  myself  in  a  tremor  all 
day  long.  I  did  not  enjoy  the  Lord  as  I  knew  I  ought.  Nervous 
agitation  possessed  me  as  long  as  there  was  anything  to  be  done. 
The  greatest  loss  of  my  Ufe  was  the  loss  of  the  light  of  the  Lord's 
presence  and  fellowship  during  writing  hours.  The  daily  mail 
robbed  me  of  His  dehghtful  society. 

"  I  am  in  the  study,  you  are  in  the  big  spare  room,"  I  said 
to  Mr.  Taylor  at  length.  "  You  are  occupied  with  millions,  I 
with  tens.  Your  letters  are  pressingly  important,  mine  of  com- 
paratively little  moment.  Yet  I  am  worried  and  distressed,  while 
you  are  always  calm.     Do  tell  me  what  makes  the  difference." 

"  My  dear  Macartney,"  he  repHed,  "  the  peace  you  speak  of 
is  in  my  case  more  than  a  dehghtful  privilege,  it  is  a  necessity." 

He  said  most  emphatically,  "  I  could  not  possibly  get  through 
the  work  I  have  to  do  without  the  peace  of  God  '  which  passeth 
all  understanding  '  keeping  my  heart  and  mind." 

That  was  my  chief  experience  of  Mr.  Taylor  :  Are  you  in  a 
hurry,  flurried,  distressed  ?  Look  up  I  See  the  Man  in  the 
Glory  !  Let  the  face  of  Jesus  shine  upon  you — the  face  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Is  He  worried,  troubled,  distressed  ?  There 
is  no  wrinkle  on  His  brow,  no  least  shade  of  anxiety.  Yet  the 
affairs  are  His  as  much  as  yours. 

"  Keswick  teaching  "  as  it  is  called  was  not  new  to  me  at 
that  time.  I  had  received  those  glorious  truths  and  was  preach- 
ing them  to  others.  But  here  was  the  real  thing — an  embodi- 
ment of  "  Keswick  teaching  "  such  as  I  had  never  hoped  to  see. 
This  impressed  me  profoundly : — here  is  a  man  ahnost  sixty^ 
years  of  age,  bearing  tremendous  burdens,  yet  absolutely  calm""^ 
and  unruffled.  Oh,  the  pile  of  letters  !  any  one  of  which  might 
contain  news  of  death,  of  shortness  of  funds,  of  riots  or  serious 
trouble.  Yet  all  were  opened,  read  and  answered  with  the  same 
tranquiUity— Christ  his  reason  for  peace,  his  power  for  calm. 
Dwelling  in  Christ  he  partook  of  His  very  being  and  resources, 
in  the  midst  of  and  concerning  the  very  matters  in  question. 
And  he  did  this  by  an  act  of  faith  as  simple  as  it  was  continuous. 

Yet  he  was  delightfully  free  and  natural.  I  can  find  no 
words  to  describe  it  save  the  Scriptural  expression  "  in  God." 
He  was  "  in  God  "  all  the  time,  and  God  in  him.  It  was  that 
true  "  abiding  "  of  John  xv.  But  oh,  the  lover-like  attitude 
that  underlay  it  !  He  had  in  relation  to  Christ  a  most  bountiful 
experience  of  the  Song  of  Solomon.  It  was  a  wonderful  coi^ibina- 
tion— the  strength  and  tenderness  of  one  who,  amid  stem  pre- 


THE  COMING  THOUSAND  495 

occupation,  like  that  of  a  judge  on  the  bench,  carried  in  his 
heart  the  Hght  and  love  of  home. 

It  was.  this  element  of  dehght  in  God  that  made  him  so 
responsive  to  the  beauty  of  His  works,  from  the  greatest  to  the 
least.  Behind  our  house  lay  an  extensive  field  "  in  Chancery  " 
aU  overgrown  with  epacrid,  heather  and  Austrahan  wild  flowers. 
Oh,  his  enjoyment  of  it !  He  would  go  out  after  his  letters  had 
been  sent  to  the  post  and  wander  over  the  common,  standing 
in  the  midst  of  that  blaze  of  colour  and  beauty  with  the  rapture 
of  a  child.  "  All  things  were  made  by  Him  "  :  this  was  the 
secret  of  his  unfailing  joy  in  them. 

The  influence  of  Mr.  Taylor's  public  utterances  may  be 
judged  from  the  result  of  the  meetings. 

"  Funds  are  coming  in,  and  many  promising  candidates 
offer,"  he  wrote  two  months  after  landing.  "  Fifty-seven  was 
the  number  I  last  heard  mentioned." 

More  than  sixty  appHed  to  join  the  Mission  before  the  time 
came  for  Mr.  Taylor's  return  to  China,  and  many  others 
were  profoundly  influenced  who  found  their  Hfe-work  in 
India  and  elsewhere.  Such,  for  example,  was  the  young 
evangeHst  who  felt  quite  annoyed  when  he  saw  in  the  local 
paper  an  announcement  of  Mr.  Taylor's  Hobart  meetings. 
He  had  no  sjmipathy  at  that  time,  no  patience  even,  with 
those  who  advocated  foreign  missions ;  being  convinced, 
through  certain  preconceptions,  that  the  whole  idea  was 
mistaken  and  unscriptural.  Mr.  Reeve  was  an  earnest 
Bible  student,  however,  and  when  drawn  to  the  meetings  in 
spite  of  himself  the  first  thing  he  noticed  was  that  the 
speaker,  whatever  might  be  his  vagaries,  was  certainly 
deahng  faithfully  with  the  Word  of  God.  Indeed  as  he 
listened,  Charles  Reeve  felt  that  he  had  never  heard  the 
Bible  more  truly  and  helpfully  expounded,  though  the  con- 
clusions he  could  not  escape  ran  counter  to  his  strongest 
convictions  up  to  that  hour.  For  it  was  on  the  back  seat 
of  that  hall,  as  Mr.  Taylor's  earnest  voice  went  on,  that  the 
call  of  God  came  to  him,  and  the  Poona  and  Indian  Village 
Mission  of  to-day,  with  its  band  of  devoted  workers,  is  the 
outcome. 

The  best  of  the  meetings  were  naturally  the  last,  when 


496         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Mr.  Taylor  was  surrounded  by  the  bright  young  volunteers 
who  were  returning  with  him  to  China.  He  had  had  no 
hesitation  in  letting  it  be  known  that  he  was  praying  for  a 
hundred  fellow- workers  from  Australasia,  and  the  large 
number  who  had  already  come  forward  awakened  the 
deepest  interest.  When  the  Council  arranged  for  a  day  of 
prayer  and  conference  for  ministers  only,  to  meet  Mr.  Taylor 
and  Mr.  Beauchamp,  no  fewer  than  forty  attended  ;  and  the 
same  evening  the  Melbourne  Town  Hall  witnessed  an  enthusi- 
astic gathering  of  three  thousand  people  to  bid  farewell  to 
the  party. 

"  Many  souls  have  been  saved  and  blessed  through  these 
meetings,"  Mr.  Taylor  was  able  to  write  to  Mr.  Stevenson. 
"  God  is  stirring  the  hearts  of  His  people  here  ;  and  if  we  had 
more  time,  we  might  look  for  a  hundred  workers  from  these 
Colonies  and  New  Zealand  before  very  long.  As  it  is,  I  believe 
the  Lord  will  do  great  things  for  China." 

Four  young  men,  Miss  Mary  Reed,  and  seven  other 
ladies  composed  the  party  which  was  to  sail  with  Mr.  Taylor 
in  October.  But  the  vessel  was  delayed  owing  to  a  strike 
of  dock  labourers,  and  an  invitation  for  meetings  in  Queens- 
land, which  he  had  had  to  decline,  recurred  to  Mr.  Taylor's 
mind.  He  little  knew  how  much  prayer  there  had  been 
behind  that  invitation,  or  the  outgoings  of  heart  with  which 
the  Queensland  vicar  and  his  wife  thought  of  great,  dark 
China,  far  away.  Their  home  was  attractive,  the  living  one 
of  the  best  in  the  Colony,  and  their  work  congenial.  But  the 
appeal  of  the  Shanghai  Conference  had  reached  them,  and 
Mr.  Southey  noted  that  ordained  men  were  specially  asked 
for.  His  health  was  not  very  robust,  and  with  three  young 
children  to  think  of,  it  might  well  have  seemed  that  he  was 
doing  all  he  could,  by  earnestly  forwarding  the  cause  of 
missions  at  home.  But  this  did  not  satisfy  his  conscience 
before  God. 

"  I  cannot  help  feeling,"  he  wrote  to  Mr,  Taylor  when  he 
heard  that  the  latter  was  really  coming,  "  that  some  of  the 
Ipswich  ministers  ought  to  go  to  the  heathen.  In  a  town  of 
eight  or  nine  thousand  inhabitants — of  whom  not  quite  two- 
thirds  are  Protestants — there  are  nine  Protestant  churches  with 


THE  COMING  THOUSAND 


497 


ten  ministers  ;  and  not  one  of  the  churches  is  ever  really  full. 
It  is  not  from  any  wish  to  change  that  I  write  this.  I  am  only 
anxious  to  do  my  Father's  will.  I  am  perfectly  willing  to  stay 
in  Queensland  if  it  is  His  will,  and  I  am  willing  if  it  be  His  will 
to  go  to  the  heathen.  There  is  plenty  to  do  here.  Spiritual 
reUgion  in  all  the  churches  is  at  a  sadly  low  ebb,  and  there  is  but 
little  missionary  zeal.  ...  So  that  I  may  truly  say  that  there 
is  work  for  a  child  of  God  here  ;  but  it  does  seem  that  there  is 
more  among  the  heathen." 

Few  experiences  ever  touched  Mr.  Taylor  more  deeply 
than  the  visit  to  this  happy,  dehghtful  home,  which  the 
parents  were  so  ready  to  forsake  for  the  love  that  is  stronger 
than  any  earthly  tie.  Mr.  Southey,  when  he  met  him  that 
early  summer  moming,^  was  for  a  moment  disappointed. 
He  had  heard  and  thought  so  much  about  the  veteran 
missionary,  that  he  unconsciously  expected  some  one  of 
imposing  appearance  ;  and  when  a  single  passenger  ahghted 
from  the  express  and  came  toward  him,  he  could  hardly 
believe  it  was  the  visitor  expected. 

"  On  reaching  home,"  he  wrote  some  years  later,  "  I 
mentioned  this  feeling  of  disappointment  to  my  wife,  adding, 
however,  '  I  am  sure  he  is  a  good  man.' 

"  But  she  was  of  quicker  discernment  than  I,  and  after  a 
little  chat  with  our  guest  came  and  said,  '  Look  at  the  light  in 
his  face.' 

"  And  truly  Mr.  Taylor  did  have  the  Hght  of  God  in  his  face. 
So  constantly  did  he  look  up  to  God,  and  so  deep  was  his  com- 
munion with  God,  that  his  very  face  seemed  to  have  upon  it  a 
^heavenly  light.  He  haJ~n:ot  been  many  hours  in  the  house 
Before,  the  first  sense  of  disappointment  gave  place  to  a  deep 
reverence  and  love,  and  I  reahsed  as  never  -before  what  the  grace 
"of'God'couId  do.  Often  and  often  had  I  longed  to  go  to  Keswick, 
but  now  God  in  His  love  had  sent  Keswick  to  me,  and  I  was 
permitted  not  to  listen  to  beautiful  teaching,  but  to  see  the  beauty 
onrHfe  lived  in  abiding  fellowship  with  the  Lord  Jesus.  In  the 
"h?)'UBe4ie"'^was  all  that  a  guest  should  be,  kind,  courteous,  con- 
siderate, gracious.  He  at  once  fell  into  the  routine  of  the  house- 
hold, was  punctual  at  the  meal  table,  studied  to  give  the  minimum 
ofjtrouble^  and  was  swift  to  notice  and  to  express  his  thanks  for 
every  little  service  rendered.  We  could  not  help  noticing  the 
utter  lack  of  self-assertion   about  him,   and  his  true  because 

^  Christmas  being  midsummer,  of  course,  in  that  southern  world. 

2K 


498         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

unconscious  humility.  About  the  Lord  and  His  grace  and  faith- 
fulness he  spoke  freely  ;  about  himself  and  his  service  he  said 
nothing.  Only  by  questioning  did  we  learn  anything  of  his  own 
labours  or  experiences,  but  when  he  was  thus  drawn  out,  how 
much  he  had  to  tell ! 

"  While  he  was  with  us  the  question  of  our  going  to  China 
was  discussed,  and  though  from  the  very  first  he  seemed  to  feel 
that  our  offer  was  of  the  Lord,  yet  he  took  pains  to  set  before 
us  the  whole  facts  of  the  case.  The  climate,  the  discomforts, 
the  absence  of  medical  help,  the  necessity  of  parting  from  the 
children,  etc.,  were  fully  gone  into.  He  certainly  did  not  lead 
us  out  by  withholding  from  us  the  real  facts  ;  and  more  than 
once  after  walking  up  and  down  our  garden,  which  seemed  to 
have  a  great  charm  for  him,  he  said  to  my  wife,  '  You  won't 
have  a  garden  Uke  this  in  China  I  '  " 

But  the  refuge  in  God  that  they  would  have^  and  the 
certainty  of  His  sustaining  grace,  was  confirmed  to  them  by 
all  they  saw  of  their  visitor,  and  had  not  a  little  to  do  with 
the  step  of  faith  which  gave  to  China  two  of  its  truest  helpers 
and  to  the  Mission,  ultimately,  its  beloved  Home  Director 
for  Australia  and  New  Zealand. 

Wonderful  were  the  developments  of  that  winter,  both 
before  and  after  Mr.  Taylor's  return  to  China.  Arriving 
on  Sunday  the  21st  of  December,  he  had  the  joy  of  finding 
Mrs.  Taylor  awaiting  him.  Arrangements  had  at  last  been 
possible  to  free  her  from  home  responsibilities,  and  she  had 
long  felt  that  her  place  was  at  his  side.  Unable  to  be  at 
the  last  Saturday  prayer  meeting  before  leaving  Pyrland 
Road,  she  had  written  to  the  friends  to  whom  she  had  been 
in  the  habit  of  giving  recent  news  from  China  : 

I  had  wanted  to  ask  you — when  some  one  else  rises  to  read 
the  letters — to  lift  your  hearts  to  God  for  me,  and  say  :  "  Make 
her  a  blessing  to  her  husband  :  make  her  a  blessing  wherever 
she  goes." 

We  may  visit  many  stations.  In  a  few  weeks  I  hope  to  join 
the  Shanghai  prayer  meeting,  and  I  want  to  cheer  them  on. 
May  I  tell  them  that  you  are  more  in  earnest  for  blessing  than 
ever  ?  If  the  Gospel  is  to  be  given  "  To  every  creature,"  much 
will  depend  on  you,  dear  friends.  You  must  take  hold  upon 
God  for  this.     You  must  uphold  our  hands  in  behaving,  fervent 


THE  COMING  THOUSAND  499 

prayer.  The  work  is  yours  as  well  as  ours,  and  so  will  the  reward 
be.  The  Lord  unite  your  hearts  in  one,  and  bow  them  before 
Himself  in  compassion  for  the  lost  Oh,  that  we  could  have 
heart  breakings  at  home  over  the  state  of  the  world  1  Dr. 
Pierson  says,  "  Prayer  has  turned  every  great  crisis  in  the  kingdom 
of  God."  It  is  a  solemn  question  for  each  one  of  us,  "  What  are 
my  prayers  really  effecting  ?  "  Do  we  know  that  we  have  the 
petitions  that  we  desire  of  Him  ? 

I  want  to  carry  fresh  inspiration  to  the  Training  Home  at 
Anking,  and  to  the  Sisters  in  Yang-chow.  WiU  you  pray  that 
to  every  place  we  are  allowed  to  visit,  my  beloved  husband  and 
I  may  be  taken  in  the  power  of  the  Spirit  ?  The  enemy's  tactics 
are  to  divide,  to  discourage,  to  deaden.  Let  us  realise  our  one- 
ness in  Christ  ;  let  us  be  strong  and  of  a  good  courage,  and  seek 
zealously  and  continuously  the  quickening  influences  of  the 
Holy  Spirit.  God  grant  that  the  Saturday  prayer  meeting, 
which  has  brought  such  blessing  in  the  past,  may  this  winter 
be  more  than  ever  a  meeting-place  with  God.  We  praise  for 
what  has  been  done  ;  but  when  we  look  at  what  needs  to  be 
done,  when  we  think  of  what  might  be  done,  we  must  humble 
ourselves  before  God.  Time  is  short,  opportunity  great :  let 
us  be  downright  in  earnest. 

Absent  nine  years  from  China,  Mrs.  Taylor  saw  great 
changes,  great  advance  on  every  hand,  and  her  presence 
^eemed  to  double  Mr.  Taylor's  capacity  for  work  and  happi- 
iiesaJjiJl.  And  there  was  need  of  all  he  could  do  and  be 
that  winter,  to  keep  pace  with  the  unprecedented  growth  of 
the  Mission.  Great  had  been  the  joy  in  1887  when  a  hundred 
new  workers  had  come  out  within  twelve  months  ;  but  now, 
in  half  that  time,  a  hundred  and  thirty-one  were  received  in 
Shanghai  for  the  C.I.M.  alone.  Sixty-six  of  them,  indeed, 
arrived  in  little  over  three  weeks — a  new  thing  on  any 
mission  field  !  And  the  sources  of  supply  were  no  less 
remarkable  than  the  numbers.^ 

*  The  analysis  of  these  arrivals  was  as  follows  :  from  October  19  to 
December  25,  1890,  nine  parties  reached  Shanghai  from  Europe,  Canada, 
and  Australia,  numbering  in  all  fifty-three  new  workers.  From  January  i 
to  April  12,  1 89 1,  seven  parties  from  Europe,  the  United  States,  Canada, 
and  Australia  were  received,  adding  seventy-eight  new  workers,  the  last 
party  being  that  of  Mr.  Southey. 

The  sixty  -  six  who  arrived  in  little  over  three  weeks  were  the 
Scandinavian  thirty-five  on  February  17,  followed  by  nine  from  England 
on  February  21,  four  from  Canada  on  February  26,  three  from  Austraha  on 
the  7th  of  March,  and  the  second  detachment  of  the  Scandinavian  party. 


500         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Far  away  in  northern  Europe,  the  little  pamphlet  "  To 
Every  Creature  *'  had  fallen  into  the  hands  of  a  devoted 
evangehst,  the  Rev.  F.  Franson — Swedish  by  birth  but  a 
naturalised  American — who  had  worked  for  seven  years 
with  D.  L.  Moody.  Always  keen  about  foreign  missions, 
its  appeal  for  absolute  loyalty  to  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and 
unquestioning  obedience  to  His  great  command  fired  a  soul 
whose  zeal  could  not  but  move  others.  Twice  had  Franson 
been  in  prison  for  his  uncompromising  earnestness  in  preach- 
ing the  Gospel ;  and  now,  with  a  burning  heart,  he  carried 
this  new  crusade  throughout  the  region  where  he  then  was, 
which  happened  to  be  northern  Germany.  Wonderfully 
used  of  God,  he  was  the  means  of  widespread  blessing,  and 
meeting  in  Barmen  with  kindred  spirits — Messrs.  Polnick, 
Paas,  and  others — it  was  there  the  missionary  interest  speci- 
ally developed.  The  China  Alhance  Mission  was  the  result, 
and  wishing  to  work  on  the  lines  of  the  C.I.M.  its  leaders 
entered  into  correspondence  with  Mr.  Taylor.  It  was  not 
long  before  its  first  representatives  sailed  for  China  as 
associates  of  the  Inland  Mission ;  but  Franson,  by  that 
time,  had  entered  upon  another  campaign,  among  the 
Scandinavian  churches  in  America. 

Well  known  throughout  the  States,  he  had  no  lack  of 
openings,  and  he  proceeded  on  the  plan,  as  he  wrote  to  Mr. 
Taylor,  of  encouraging  the  Lord's  people  "  to  give  support 
each  church  to  one  missionary." 

"  This  plan  has  proved  to  be  a  very  good  one,"  he  continued. 
"  I  have  succeeded  very  well.  Not  only  have  this  party  their 
support  secured,  but  another  expedition  of  some  ten  will  leave 
Omaha  twelve  days  later  than  this  one.  We  arrange  it  so  that 
we  do  not  send  any  who  has  not  been  used  of  God  to  blessing 
for  souls.  ...  A  good  many  have  offered  themselves  but  have 
been  refused,  some  on  the  ground  of  insufficient  health,  some  on 
the  ground  of  incapability  for  mission  work.  A  very  great 
interest  has  been  created  aU  over  America  among  Scandinavians, 
through  my  personal  visits  and  the  visits  of  these  missionaries." 

Chosen  men  and  women  of  devoted  spirit,  their  intention 

which  arrived  on  March  lo,  proved  to  number  fifteen — five  more  than  had 
been  expected.  Well  was  it  that  the  new  C.I.M.  Home  in  Shanghai  was 
not  only  spacious  but  elastic,  and  in  good  working  order. 


THE  COMING  THOUSAND  501 

was,  as  Mr.  Franson  explained,  to  do  itinerant  work ; 
'*  that  is  to  be  of  the  Thousand  Mr.  Taylor  has  prayed  to  the 
Lord  about — to  do  just  that  work." 

They  are  prepared  to  go  from  place  to  place  preaching  the 
Gospel,  distributing  tracts  and  Bibles,  as  the  Lord  may  lead 
for  at  least  three  years  .  .  .  and  not  to  marry  during  this  time, 
or  even  get  engaged  to  marriage.  ...  I  suppose  it  best  that 
they  procure  Chinese  clothes  as  soon  as  they  arrive. 

Their  desire  was  to  be  associated  with  the  C.LM.,  just 
as  the  Swedish  and  German  Alliance  Missions  were,  and  to 
be  under  the  direction  of  Mr.  Taylor  and  his  representatives 
no  less  than  that  of  their  own  leaders.  It  was  a  large  con- 
tribution, as  it  proved,  to  the  ranks  of  the  Mission. 

Never  can  one  of  the  writers  forget  coming  down  the  long 
verandah  of  the  Mission-house  with  Mr.  Stevenson  that 
February  morning,  in  glorious  sunshine,  just  as  two  young 
men  of  pleasing  appearance  presented  themselves  at  the 
main  entrance. 

"  They  must  be  the  Scandinavians,"  said  the  Deputy 
Director,  going  to  meet  them  ;  for  he  had  just  been  speaking 
of  Mr.  Franson's  party. 

"  How  many  are  you  ?  "  was  a  necessary  question  in 
view  of  providing  accommodation. 

"  We  are  thirty-five,"  came  the  astonishing  reply,  "  and 
there  are  ten  more,  or  perhaps  fifteen,  who  will  be  here  next 
week." 

Thirty-five  in  one  party,  and  more  to  follow  !  hardly 
could  we  take  it  in.  But  the  dear  fellows  looked  so  happy, 
and  were  so  anxious  to  bring  up  all  the  others  to  share  their 
welcome,  that  there  was  no  room  for  hesitation.  The  only 
thing  to  do  was  to  receive  them,  full  though  the  house 
seemed  already,  thankfully  realising  that  they  were  given  of 
God  in  answer  to  prayer,  part  of  the  coming  Thousand. 

And  who  that  was  then  in  the  Mission-house  was  not 
cheered  and  blessed  through  the  coming  of  the  Scandinavian 
Fifty  ?  Faith  set  to  music  was  the  atmosphere  they  carried 
with  them.  To  the  accompaniment  of  their  guitars  and 
hearts  overflowing  with  praise,  they  taught  us  many  a  sweet 
refrain  from  their  Swedish  hymns.     Few  of  them  could 


502         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

speak  much  English,  but  they  prayed  with  perfect  freedom 
in  our  meetings,  and  though  we  could  not  understand — save 
where  the  oft-repeated  *'  Chere  Herre  Jesu  "  or  "  Kina, 
Kina  "  came  in — the  sense  of  fellowship  in  Christ  was  very 
real. 

It's  best  to  go  singing,  to  go  singing  all  the  way, 

was  one  chorus  thej'  translated  for  us ;  and  no  less  char- 
acteristic was  the  postscript  to  a  letter  of  united  thanks  they 
wrote  on  leaving  Shanghai  for  their  up-country  destina- 
tions : 

"  March  along — we  are  going  to  conquer  1     We  have 
victory  through  the  Blood.'* 


CHAPTER   XXXV 

DEEPENING  THE   CHANNELS 

1891-1892.    Aet.  59-60. 

Yet  with  all  this  growth  and  encouragement,  seldom  had 
there  been  a  time  of  more  serious  and  widespread  danger 
for  foreigners  in  China,  or  of  greater  strain  for  Mr.  Taylor 
as  leader  of  the  Mission.  The  Scandinavian  Fifty  had 
hardly  gone  singing  on  their  way  when  riots  began  to  break 
out  all  along  the  Yangtze  valley.  In  place  after  place 
Mission  premises  were  destroyed,  and  though  the  fury  of 
the  people  was  specially  directed  against  the  Romanists, 
alLforeigners  were  more  or  less  imperilled.  Even  in  Shanghai 
it  seemed  uncertain  whether  the  authorities  would  be  able 
to  restrain  looting  and  violence,  and  little  sleep  was  to  be 
had  on  more  than  one  hot  summer  night  because  a  riot 
was  expected  before  morning. 

Mr.  Stevenson,  meanwhile,  had  been  obliged  to  take 
needed  furlough,  after  five  years  of  heavy  directorial  responsi- 
bilities. This  left  Mr.  Taylor  in  sole  charge  in  Shanghai 
and  unable  to  leave  headquarters,  gladly  as  he  would  have 
gone  to  the  help  of  those  in  more  difficult  situations.  It 
was  the  women  workers  of  the  Mission  who  were  specially 
on  his  heart,  the  little  groups  alone  in  the  interior,  with 
no  human  protection  or  companionship  save  that  of  the 
native  Christians  ;  and  great  was  the  comfort  of  letters 
such  as  the  following  : 

"  There  has  been  a  good  deal  of  iao-ien  (wild  talk)  since  the 
riots,"  wrote  Miss  Mackintosh  from  the  Kwang-sin  river,  "  but 
we  go  quietly  on  as  usual.     *  Under  His  shadow  '  there  is  perfect 

503 


504         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

safety  anywhere.  The  six  Swedish  sisters  are  here,  and  are 
getting  along  with  the  language.  The  sisters  from  Kwang- 
feng  are  here  also  during  the  heat,  so  we  are  a  party  of  thirteen, 
and  all  well  and  happy.  .  .  .  '  Jesus  Himself  drew  near.'  " 

"  Jesus  Himself  drew  near  "  :  yes,  that  was  the  secret 
of  peace  at  many  a  post  of  danger.  One  missionary,  not 
of  the  C.I.M.,  was  murdered  while  waiting  for  a  steamer 
on  the  Yangtze,^  and  with  him  the  Customs  official 
(European)  who  had  gone  to  his  rehef ;  and  everywhere 
rumours  were  most  menacing. 

"  The  great  enemy  of  souls  has  been  simply  raging  against 
missions  in  China,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  to  Mrs.  Fagg  in  Hobart 
some  months  later.  "  I  look  on  the  recent  riots  as  Satan's  reply 
to  the  Conference  appeal  for  a  thousand  additional  workers. 
God  will  have  His  response,  however ;  and  while  the  enemy  is 
mighty,  God  alone  is  almighty." 

His  chief  concern  was  that  the  Mission  should  stand 
for  real  faith  at  such  a  time,  setting  an  example  of  quietness 
and  confidence  in  God  to  the  Chinese  Christians. 

"  We  are  continually  encouraging  our  converts  to  brave 
persecution  and  to  suffer  loss  for  Christ's  sake,"  he  wrote  in  a 
circular  letter  upon  how  to  act  in  times  of  danger, ^  "  and  they 
are  apt  to  think  that  it  is  easy  for  us  to  speak  in  this  way,  seeing 
that,  as  far  as  they  can  tell,  we  are  well-off  and  exposed  to  no 
danger  or  loss.  When,  therefore,  we  are  in  danger  they  will 
mark  our  conduct  very  closely,  and  judge  for  themselves  how 
far  we  really  beheve  that  '  Sufficient  is  His  arm  alone,  and  our 
defence  is  sure.' 

"  What  a  loss  it  would  be  if  any  of  them  should  think  that 
we  rehed  more  upon  a  gunboat  or  a  band  of  soldiers  than  upon 
the  hving  God  !  Years  of  teaching  would  not  impress  them  as 
our  conduct  at  such  times  may  do.  Moreover  their  sympathy 
will  be  drawn  out  toward  us  when  they  see  us  willing  to  suffer 
for  the  Gospel,  as  they  so  often  have  to  do.  A  time  of  danger 
is  a  grand  opportunity  for  being  an  object-lesson  to  the  native 
Christians." 

For  five  long  months,  from  May  to  October,  the  excite- 
ment continued,  notwithstanding  an  Imperial  proclamation 

*  Much  sympathy  was  felt  for  the  Wesleyans  in  the  loss  of  this  promis- 
ing young  worker,  Mr.  Argent  of  the  Joyful  News  Mission,  killed  at  Wu- 
siieh  in  May  1891.  ^  Dated  June  17,  1891, 


DEEPENING  THE  CHANNELS  505 

which  had  a  good  effect.  With  few  exceptions,  C.I.M. 
workers  were  enabled  to  remain  at  their  stations,  none  of 
which  were  actually  rioted,  though  many  were  seriously 
threatened.  Prayer  for  rain  in  June  was  wonderfully 
answered,  and  again  in  October,  when  the  Council  Meetings 
were  adjourned  in  order  that  all  in  the  Mission-house  at 
Shanghai  might  unite  in  waiting  upon  God  for  deHverance. 
The  summer  had  been  intensely  hot,  and  nothing  was  so 
hkely  to  quiet  the  people  as  steady,  continuous  rain,  which 
was  much  needed.  Prayer  was  earnest  and  definite  there- 
fore, in  this  connection,  and  three  weeks  later  a  letter  from 
Mrs.  Taylor  recorded  the  definite  answer :  *'  Rain  has 
been  coming  down  almost  all  this  month."  The  effect 
was  just  what  was  hoped  for  :  crowds  were  scattered,  and 
gradually  the  anti-foreign  feeling  died  down  for  the  time 
being,  and  normal  conditions  were  restored. 

Meanwhile  burdens  of  a  different  nature  were  pressing 
more  and  more  heavily.  With  a  mission  embracing  so  many 
workers,  widely  scattered  over  a  vast  territory,  all  to  be 
counselled,  guided,  sustained  by  prayer,  supplied  with 
means  and  many  of  the  necessaries  of  life,  it  was  inevitable 
that  much  of  care,  if  not  anxiety,  should  come  upon  its 
responsible  head  in  Shanghai.  To  his  beloved  friend  the 
Home  Director  in  London,  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  in  June  : 

Even  you,  dear  Mr.  Howard,  can  scarcely  realise  what  it 
is  to  be  out  here,  to  know  and  love  our  dear  workers,  to  hear  of 
their  sorrows  and  difficulties,  their  disappointments  and  their 
strifes  ;  learning  of  sickness,  needing  arrangements  for  succour 
if  possible  ;  receiving  telegrams  asking  for  direction  in  peril, 
or  telling  it  may  be  of  death  ;  accounts  coming  in  of  massacre 
and  arson,  and  all  the  untold  incidents  of  our  ever -varying 
experience — not  to  speak  of  the  ordinary  responsibilities  and 
the  pecuniary  claim  of  a  mission  now  approaching  five  hundred 
in  number.  There  is  just  one  way  to  avoid  being  overwhelmed 
— to  bring  everything  as  it  arises  to  our  Master ;  and  He  does 
help,  and  He  does  not  misunderstand. 

Often  had  the  question  of  funds  to  be  brought  to  the 
Lord  at  this  time,  for  it  was  one  that  was  causing  Mr.  Taylor 
no  little  exercise  of  mind.  With  a  rapidly  growing  and 
encouraging   work   on   the   field,    the   income   received   in 


5o6        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

England  had  been  falling  for  two  or  three  years.  Believing 
as  he  did  that  every  gift  to  the  Mission  was  the  outcome 
of  a  divinely  given  impulse,  Mr,  Taylor  could  not  but  search 
his  own  life  again  and  again,  and  prayerfully  consider  every 
aspect  of  the  work  to  see  whether  there  might  be  anything 
hindering  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  in  this  respect.  His 
heart  was  kept  in  peace  about  it  and  about  all  the  pressure 
that  was  upon  him,  but  apart  from  the  daily  miracle  of 
sustaining  grace  it  would  have  been  far  otherwise.^ 

And  there  were  other  trials  that  led  to  even  deeper 
exercise  of  heart  and  mind.  For  the  relation  of  the  work 
in  China  to  the  Council  at  home  had  not  yet  passed  beyond 
the  experimental  stage,  in  which  questions  were  apt  to 
come  up  that  were  difficult  of  settlement.  The  whole  idea 
of  the  Mission  in  this  connection — government  on  the  field 
rather  than  from  a  distance — was  so  new  and  contrary  to 
received  traditions  that  it  was  no  wonder  it  had  to  win 
its  way  gradually,  and  in  face,  at  times,  of  criticism  and 
questioning.  To  Mr.  Taylor  with  his  thorough  grasp  of 
the  problems  to  be  dealt  with,  nothing  could  be  clearer 
than  that  the  control  of  affairs  in  China  must  be  vested  in 
men  of  expert  knowledge,  leaders  in  whom  their  fellow- 
missionaries  would  have  confidence,  able  to  deal  with 
matters  effectively  on  the  spot.  It  was  easy  to  see  that 
in  the  home  centres  the  Directors  and  Councils  must  be  free 
to  apply  the  principles  of  the  Mission  to  their  own  problems 
and  decide  their  own  line  of  action  in  accordance  with  them  ; 
but  it  needed  time  and  experience  to  make  it  equally  plain 
that  the  China  administration  must  be  upon  the  same 
footing.  In  principle  this  had  been  conceded  from  the  first ; 
but  it  was  one  thing  to  have  confidence  in  Mr.  Taylor's 

^  "  I  should  feel  anxious  if  the  work  were  my  work,"  he  had  written  to 
a  friend  in  England  (Jan.  1891),  "  but  it  is  the  Lord's  work  ;  and  though 
I  do  not  see  my  way,  the  Lord  sees  His  way,  and  I  am  thinking  of  Miss 
Warner's  hymn  :  '  My  heart  is  resting,  O  my  God,  I  will  give  thanks 
and  sing,'  etc.     I  never  saw  my  way  less,  or  felt  more  at  rest." 

And  in  February,  to  another  correspondent :  "I  need  your  prayers 
for  strength  and  guidance.  I  should  feel  very  concerned  at  the  present 
aspect  of  matters  had  I  not  a  deep  consciousness  that  God  is  with  us, 
and  that  He  will  care  and  provide  for  His  own  work.  Thank  God,  I  never 
had  more  deep  rest  and  manifest  help  than  in  this  hour  of  need.  '  The 
Lord  reignetb, '  how  can  we  but  rejoice  1  " 


DEEPENING  THE  CHANNELS  507 

management  as  long  as  matters  were  in  his  own  hands, 
and  quite  another  to  transfer  that  confidence  to  the  China 
Council.  Yet  this  was  a  cardinal  point  in  the  organisation 
he  was  building  up,  sometimes  amid  much  of  trial  and 
perplexity. 

"  Mr.  Berger  is  quite  right,"  he  wrote  to  Mr.  Stevenson  in 
this  connection  (May  '91),  "  that  the  supreme  question  is  that  .^ 
of  final  headship,  and  it  is  equally  clear  to  me  that  it  can  only  '^ 
]be  vested  in  China ;  but  great  gentleness  and  patience  will  be 
needed  to  make  the  reasonableness  of  this  clear  to  all.  It  is 
the  Lord's  work,  and  He  Who  is  most  deeply  interested  will 
help  us." 

To  one  of  Mr.  Taylor's  tender,  affectionate  nature 
diyergence^.Qi^ judgement  from  those  he  esteemed  highly, 
and  to  whom  the  Mission  was  indebted  for  much  self- 
sacrificing  service,  was  peculiarly  painful,  especially  when, 
as  in  the  present  case,  it  was  long  continued.  But  there 
Cfiuld  be  no  question  of  compromise  upon  so  vital  an  issue. 

"  We  may  make  mistakes  in  China,"  he  wrote  again  to  Mr.  \ 
Theodore  Howard   (Aug.   28),   "  and  no  doubt  mistakes  have  \\^ 
been  made  in  the  past ;   but  evils  far  more  serious  would  result   l>^ 
from  abandoning  what  I  am  convinced  are  God-given  fines  for 
the  C.I.M." 

Much  as  it  would  have  meant  to  him  therefore,  amid 
all  the  pressure  of  this  period,  to  have  had  the  full  and 
sympathetic  concurrence  ultimately  secured  in  these  matters, 
there  was  nothing  for  it  but  to  wait  upon  God  and  to  wait 
His  time.  And  meanwhile  the  whole  situation  was  being 
thought  out  and  prayed  over,  both  in  England  and  China, 
in  a  way  that  could  not  but  strengthen  the  work  in  days 
to  come. 

"  The  Lord  doubtless  has  His  purpose  in  permitting  it," 
Mr.  Taylor  wrote  to  Mr.  Stevenson  at  the  close  of  the  year  (Dec.       1 
'91),  "  and  to  learn  any  lesson  He  may  have  to  teach  us  is  more- — =^ 
jinporta.nt  than  getting  rid  of  the  trouble."  ^ 

What  could  have  been  more  encouraging  under  the 
circumstances  than  just  the  outpourings  of  spiritual  blessing, 
both  in  the  spring  of  the  year  and  at  its  close,  with  which 


5o8         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

the  Lord  was  pleased  to  cheer  His  servants  in  Shanghai  ? 
No  one  could  relieve  Mr.  Taylor  of  burdens  that  pressed 
the  heaviest,  but  others  might  be  channels  of  divine  grace 
through  which  the  entire  Mission  should  be  refreshed. 

Such  a  channel  was  Mr.  Frost,  now  pa5nlng  his  first  visit 
to  China.  Arriving  with  a  party  from  Toronto  in  February, 
he  stayed  till  well  on  in  the  summer,  making  a  considerable 
j  ourney  round  the  nearer  stations .  A  conference  of  American 
workers  gathered  in  Shanghai  to  meet  him  proved  a  time 
of  real  spiritual  help.^  "  We  would  see  Jesus,"  the  hymn 
with  which  it  opened,  had  to  be  modified  ere  the  close  to  a 
version  more  in  keeping  with  radiant  lives  and  faces : 

CVe  have  seen  Jesus — the  great  rock  foundation 
Whereon  our  feet  were  set  with  sovereign  grace ; 
Nor  hfe,  nor  death,  with  all  their  agitation 
Can  thence  remove  us,  as  we  see  His  face. 

Early  in  the  autumn  Mr.  Cassels  arrived  from  his  far 
western  province  to  attend  the  Council  Meetings,  and  the 
Misses  Newcombe  of  the  C.M.S. — soon  to  lay  down  their 
lives  for  Christ's  sake — came  up  from  Foo-chow  on  a  visit. 
All  these  brought  blessing  to  the  resident  staff  and  the 
many  coming  and  going  in  the  Mission-house.  They  spoke 
/  much  of  the  life  that  is  *'  No  longer  I  but  Christ "  in  practical 
;  reality,  but  best  of  all  they  lived  it.  And  is  there  anything 
else  so  sure  to  awaken  hunger  in  other  hearts  ? 

"  There  is  a  real  spirit  of  prayer  and  quickening  in  the  Home 
here,  praise  God  !  "  Mrs.  Taylor  wrote  on  November  7. 

A  week  later  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Orr-Ewing  arrived  from 
England,  and  with  them  Mr.  Walter  B.  Sloan,  whose  way 
had  opened,  after  years  of  prayer,  to  join  the  Mission. 
Before  going  on  to  An-king  to  commence  the  study  of  the 
language,  he  gave  in  a  series  of  Bible  Readings  some  of  the 
deeper  things  learned  in  that  waiting  time.  The  Word 
was  with  power,  and  many  of  his  hearers  could  have  said 
with  Mr.  Macartney  of  Melbourne  : 

The  peace  you  enjoy  has  made  me  envious  :   I  want  to  have 

*  Mr.  Southey,  who  had  just  arrived  from  Queensland,  and  Mr.  Taylor 
also  took  part  in  this  conference. 


DEEPENING  THE  CHANNELS  509 

more  of  it,  and  from  the  same  Source.  This,  I  think,  I  can  truly 
say — the  absence  of  it,  or  the  interruptions  of  it,  make  me  more 
uncomfortable  and  unhappy  than  ever  before.  This,  too,  is  a 
work  of  the  Holy  Spirit  for  which  I  am  thankful ;  but  I  long  to 
pass  completely  from  the  reign  of  ever-recurring  conviction  to 
the  reign  of  ever-increasing  rest.^ 

Then  a  great  uplift  was  given,  as  the  year  drew  to  a 
close,  by  the  coming  of  a  C.M.S.  party  with  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Heywood  Horsburgh  from  England.  These  beloved  friends 
had  the  sorrow  of  losing  a  precious  child  in  Shanghai,  but 
from  stricken  hearts  only  love  and  blessing  flowed  to  others. 
The  tide  of  spiritual  life  was  deepening,  and  before  they 
left  for  their  new  sphere,  fifteen  hundred  miles  up  the 
Yangtze,  several  conversions  had  taken  place  in  the  C.I.M. 
Hall  and  on  a  British  man-of-war  l5dng  in  the  river. 

After  that  came  a  wonderful  time,  in  which  one  and 
another  were  brought  face  to  face  with  a  question  which 
revealed  the  heart's  deepest  need  and  opened  up  a  whole 
world  of  blessed  possibility.  One  young  worker  from  the 
interior,  for  example,  unavoidably  detained  in  Shanghai, 
was  present  at  these  meetings,  and  stirred  with  a  sense  of 
need  and  longing  as  never  before.  Four  years  in  China 
had  taught  her  something  of  the  joy  and  blessing  to  be 
found  in  deeper  fellowship  with  the  Master,  but  something 
also  of  the  deadening  influences  of  heathenism,  the  power 
of  evil  within  as  well  as  around  her,  and  the  blank  despair 
of  seeking  to  help  others  when  her  own  soul  was  out  of 
living  touch  with  Christ.  How  she  longed  for  "  the 
exchanged  life,"  the  life  she  saw  in  others,  but  knew  not 
how  to  attain.  Praying  in  anguish  no  one  suspected  for 
light  and  help,  it  was  the  last  Sunday  before  Christmas 
when  a  word  was  spoken  that,  under  God,  brought  deliver- 
ance and  made  all  things  new.  After  the  evangelistic 
service  in  the  C.I.M.  Hall,  an  entire  stranger — a  Christian 
seaman — came  up  to  her  and  said  earnestly  : 

"  Are  you  filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost  ?  ** 

Filled    with    the    Holy    Ghost  ?     She    remembered    no 

^  From  a  letter  to  Mr.  Taylor  of  a  few  weeks  later,  dated  December  15, 
1891. 


510         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

more  of  the  conversation,  but  that  question  burned  deeper 
and  deeper  into  her  heart.  This,  then,  was  the  explanation 
of  all  the  inward  failure,  the  sorrow  that  seemed  unavail- 
ing, the  purposes  that  came  to  nothing.  God  had  made  a 
provision,  given  a  Gift  that  she  had  never  definitely  accepted. 
She  knew  that  the  Holy  Spirit  must  be  her  life  in  a  certain 
sense,  for  "  if  any  man  have  not  the  Spirit  of  Christ,  he  is 
none  of  His.'*  And  yet,  just  as  certainly,  she  knew  that 
she  was  not  ''  filled  with  the  Spirit,"  and  was  experiencing 
little  of  His  power. 

But  how  afraid  she  was  of  being  misled,  of  running  into 
error  and  mistaking  emotion  for  reahty  !  The  Word  of 
God  was  full,  now  she  came  to  study  the  subject,  of  the 
personaHty  and  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  The  Acts  of 
the  Apostles — what  was  it  but  the  acts  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
transforming  and  quickening  lives  just  as  she  knew  she 
needed  to  be  quickened  and  transformed  ?  Oh,  yes,  why 
had  she  never  seen  it !  It  was  indeed  the  Holy  Spirit  she 
needed;  the  fulness  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  to  make  unseen 
things  real  to  her  and  impossible  things  possible.  And 
there  stood  out  in  Gal.  iii.  13,  14  the  words  : 

*'  Christ  hath  redeemed  us  from  the  curse  of  the  law, 
having  been  made  a  curse  for  us  .  .  .  that  we  might  receive 
the  promise  of  the  Spirit  through  faith.'* 

What  was  she  doing  with  the  infinite  Gift  purchased 
at  such  a  cost  ?  She  saw  that  just  as  Christ  is  ours  by  the 
gift  of  God,  and  yet  we  have  each  one  personally  to  receive 
Him,  so  with  the  Holy  Spirit.  She  saw  that  He  too  was 
a  Person,  just  as  real  as  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  to  be  just  as 
truly  welcomed  by  faith  into  the  heart  that  cannot  do 
without  Him  as  a  hving  link  with  the  risen,  glorious  Lord. 
All  the  rest  that  can  be  told  is  that  she  took  the  step,  though 
with  fear  and  trembling — scarce  knowing  what  it  meant — 
and  trusted  the  Holy  Spirit  to  come  in  and  possess  her  fully, 
just  as  she  had  trusted  the  Lord  Jesus  to  be  her  Saviour. 
FeeUng  nothing,  realising  nothing,  she  just  took  God  at 
His  word,  and  then  and  there  asked  that  the  promise  might 
be  fulfilled,  "  When  He  is  come  (to  you)  He  will  reprove 
(or  convict)  the  world  of  sin,  of  righteousness  and  of  judge- 


DEEPENING  THE  CHANNELS  511 

merit."  Her  chief  sorrow  for  many  months  had  been  that 
she  seemed  to  have  httle  power  for  soul-winning,  and 
hardly  knew  of  any  who  had  been  brought  to  Christ  through 
her  instrumentality.  It  was  Christmas  week,  and  believing 
that  a  real,  a  definite  transaction  had  taken  place  alone  in 
that  quiet  room,  she  asked  in  faith  that  God  would  give 
her  to  see  the  proof  of  it  in  actual  conversions  every  day 
that  week,  in  connection  with  meetings  that  were  being  held. 

And  every  day  that  week  the  prayer  was  answered. 
More  than  twenty  people,  young  and  old,  sailors,  visitors, 
and  residents  in  Shanghai,  it  was  given  her  to  help  to  a 
definite  decision  for  Christ,  while  the  joy  and  Hberty  of  her 
own  heart  were  so  manifest  that  others  could  not  but  long 
for  and  seek  the  same  blessing.  All  this  meant  much  to 
Mr.  Taylor.  No  encouragement  could  ever  be,  to  him,  so 
great  as  just  to  see  the  hand  of  God  working  in  such  ways. 
Going  into  the  room  where  a  young  missionary  lay  dying — 
one  he  had  been  seeking  to  help — he  found  the  extremity 
of  human  weakness  overflooded  with  the  glow  of  a  wonderful 
triumph.     Fear  and  distress  were  gone. 

"  She  told  me  about  the  Holy  Spirit,"  whispered  the 
one  who  had  so  dreaded  the  dark  valley,  "  and  it  was  just 
what  I  needed." 

For  weeks  and  even  months  the  blessing  continued. 
Mr.  Sloan  returned  to  Shanghai  for  a  second  series  of  meet- 
ings ;  and  in  various  centres,  foreign  residents  and  members 
of  other  missions  entered  into  fulness  of  life  in  Christ. 

"  God  is  working  in  our  midst,"  Mrs.  Taylor  wrote  in  April 
(1892),  "  emptying  and  humbling  one  and  another,  and  filling 
with  the  Holy  Spirit.  We  are  having  frequent  meetings  full 
of  liberty  and  power." 

On  the  i6th  of  that  month  the  Council,  which  was  in 
session,  was  suspended,  a  minute  being  passed  to  record  that, 

Instead  of  meeting  for  conference,  the  China  Council  united 
with  the  members  of  the  Mission  in  Shanghai  in  seeking  for 
themselves,  the  whole  Mission  in  China  and  the  Home  Councils, 
the  filling  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

In  answer  to  prayer  the  blessing  spread.     From  distant 


512         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

stations  letters  that  took  weeks  in  coming  told  of  individual 
missionaries,  and  whole  groups  in  some  cases,  transformed 
by  the  same  renewing  power,  while  from  the  young  men's 
training  home  came  the  tidings  that  not  one  of  the  students 
remained  unblessed. 

"  Here  in  Shanghai  there  have  been  some  very  hungry  hearts," 
Mr.  Taylor  wrote  in  a  circular  letter  to  the  members  of  the 
Mission,^  "  and  praise  God  He  has  been  fulhUing  to  them  the 
promise  '  He  satisfieth  the  longing  soul,  and  filleth  the  hungry 
soul  with  goodness  '  ;  with  the  result  that  there  have  been  more 
conversions  in  connection  with  our  work  here,  in  a  few  months, 
than  for  several  years  previously — some  fifty  persons,  sailors 
and  residents  as  well  as  native  servants,  having  accepted  Christ. 
From  other  places  too  we  are  hearing  of  quickening  and  ingather- 
ing, which  we  trust  may  be  as  droppings  before  the  showers  we 
need. 

"  The  supreme  want  of  all  missions  in  the  present  day  is  the 
manifested  presence  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Hundreds  of  thousands 
of  tracts  and  portions  of  Scripture  have  been  put  into  circula- 
tion ;  thousands  of  Gospel  addresses  have  been  given  ;  tens  of 
thousands  of  miles  have  been  traversed  in  missionary  journeys 
but  how  small  has  been  the  issue  in  the  way  of  definite  conversions ! 
We  as  a  mission  have  much  need  to  humble  ourselves  before 
God.  There  has  been  a  measure  of  blessing  among  us  and  souls 
have  been  saved,  but  where  are  the  ones  that  chase  a  thousand, 
or  the  two  that  put  ten  thousand  to  flight  ?  Where  are  the 
once-thirsty  ones,  now  filled,  from  whom  flow  rivers  of  Hving 
water  ?  .  .  . 

"  Few  of  us,  perhaps,  are  satisfied  with  the  results  of  our 
work,  and  some  may  think  that  if  we  had  more,  or  more  costly 
machinery  we  should  do  better.  But  oh,  I  feel  that  it  is  divine 
power  we  want  and  not  machinery  1  If  the  tens  or  hundreds  we 
now  reach  daily  are  not  being  won  to  Christ,  where  would  be  the 
gain  in  machinery  that  would  enable  us  to  reach  double  the 
number  ?  Should  we  not  do  well,  rather,  to  suspend  our  present 
operations  and  give  ourselves  to  humihation  and  prayer  for 
nothing  less  than  to  be  filled  with  the  Spirit,  and  made  channels 
through  which  He  shall  work  with  resistless  power  ?  .  .  . 

"  Souls  are  perishing  now  for  lack  of  this  power.  .  .  .  God  is 
blessing  now  some  who  are  seeking  this  blessing  from  Him  in 
faith.  All  things  are  ready,  if  we  are  ready.  Let  us  ask  Him  to 
search  us  and  remove  all  that  hinders  His  working  by  us  in  larger 

*  Dated  March  29,  1892. 


DEEPENING  THE  CHANNELS  513 

measure.  If  any  of  us  have  been  tempted  to  murmur,  to  think 
or  speak  unkindly  of  fellow-workers  ;  if  light  conversation  or 
jesting  '  which  are  not  convenient '  have  been  indulged  in ;  if 
we  have  allowed  less  important  things  to  take  time  and  attention 
that  God's  direct  work  should  have  had  ;  if  our  Bibles  or  secret 
prayer  have  been  neglected,  let  us  confess  the  evil  before  God  and 
claim  His  promised  forgiveness,  carefully  avoiding  such  occasions 
of  weakness  for  the  future.  And  having  sought  the  removal  of 
aU  hindrances  and  yielded  ourselves  up  in  fresh  consecration,  let 
us  accept  by  faith  the  filling,  and  definitely  receive  the  Holy 
Tjhost,  to  occupy  and  govern  the  cleansed  temple." 

It  was  cause  for  great  thankfulness  to  all  concerned 
when,  before  the  close  of  the  year,  deliverance  was  given 
in  the  matters  of  difficulty  that  had  so  long  been  under 
consideration.  These  had  necessitated  Mr.  Taylor's  return 
to  England,  and  when  it  seemed  that  unanimity  could  not 
be  reached  by  discussion  of  the  problems,  the  whole  time 
was  given  at  more  than  one  Council  Meeting  to  united 
waiting  upon  God.  After  that  the  change  was  very  marked. 
With  certain  wise  concessions  on  Mr.  Taylor's  part,  liberty 
for  the  China  administration  was  fully  and  finally  secured, 
and  early  in  the  new  year  (1893)  it  was  evident  that  this 
prolonged  period  of  trial  was  passing  away. 

Nobly  had  the  home  staff  borne  the  strain  of  continually 
increasing  demands  upon  them  through  the  enlargement 
of  the  work.  Arrangements  that  had  been  adequate  when 
Mr.  Broomhall  became  General  Secretary,  and  the  total 
membership  of  the  Mission  was  only  about  a  hundred,  had 
necessarily  ceased  to  be  so.  With  five  times  that  number 
on  ^  the  field,  the  home  department  needed  strengthening, 
Imd  there  seemed  a  possibility  at  last  of  securing  one  in 
every  way  fitted  to  reheve  the  situation.  At  the  sacrifice 
of  a  hfe  of  direct  missionary  service,  Mr.  Walter  B.  Sloan 
consented  to  take  up  the  responsibilities  of  Secretary  in 
London  as  junior  colleague  to  Mr.  Broomhall.  Mr.  Marcus 
Wood  also  gave  up  returning  to  his  much-loved  work  in 
China,  that  he  might  undertake  meetings  throughout  the 
country,  especially  with  a  view  to  enlisting  young  men 
in  the  cause  of  foreign  missions.  Mr.  Stevenson  having 
returned  to  China,  Mr.  Taylor  was  able  to  remain  for  a  time 

2L 


514         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

in  England,  to  the  encouragement  of  the  Council  and  staff ; 
and  best  of  all,  the  blessing  of  God  was  manifest  in  un- 
mistakable ways. 

As  to  the  financial  trial  of  the  period,  Mr.  Taylor  had 
written  before  leaving  Shanghai : 

It  has  been  wonderful  and  beautiful  to  see  how  the  Lord  has 
helped  us.  Timely  gifts  from  members  of  our  own  Mission,  some 
of  them  representing  much  self-denial,  and  contributions  from 
foreign  residents  and  visitors  have  not  infrequently  in  the  day 
answered  the  prayers  for  the  day,  so  that  every  need  has  been 
met.  On  one  occasion  a  party  preparing  to  go  to  a  distant 
station  had  their  packing  completed,  and  the  hour  for  departure 
was  drawing  near  before  the  funds  came  in  to  take  them  forward. 
Repeatedly  we  have  been  without  any  funds  for  the  general 
requirements  of  the  whole  Mission,  though  for  particular  objects 
there  have  been  balances  which,  of  course,  could  not  be  touched. 
Our  hearts  have  been  kept  in  peace,  knowing  that  God's  promises 
cannot  fail ;  and  to  the  question,  "  Lacked  ye  anything  ?  "  we 
can  only  reply  as  did  the  disciples  of  old,  "  Nothing,  Lord." 

Needless  to  say,  there  had  been  times  of  straitness  in 
China  when  special  prayer  was  called  forth,  times  when  the 
members  of  the  Mission  had  been  drawn  to  one  another  in 
quickened  love  and  sympathy,  and  had  learned  fresh  lessons 
of  the  overruling  care  of  God.  Such,  for  example,  was  the 
December  day  in  1891  when  two  thousand  pounds  was 
urgently  needed  for  general  purposes,  and  the  cable  announ- 
cing the  month's  remittance  was  due  to  arrive  from  England. 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  were  at  work  in  the  study  as  usual, 
a  junior  member  of  the  Mission  being  with  them  when  the 
telegram  was  brought  in.  With  a  brief  pause  for  silent 
prayer  he  opened  and  read  it,  read  it  aloud,  forgetful  perhaps 
of  the  young  worker  to  whom  the  moment  was  one  of  almost 
breathless  suspense. 

"  A  hundred  and  seventy  pounds." 

"  One  thousand  seven  hundred,  perhaps  ?  "  questioned 
Mrs.  Taylor. 

'*  No  :  a  hundred  and  seventy." 

In  the  silence  that  followed  it  seemed  to  the  one  who 
listened  as  if  the  heavens  had  fallen,  or  a  chasm  of  measure- 
less blackness  had  opened  at  her  feet.     A  hundred  and 


DEEPENING  THE  CHANNELS  515 

seventy  pounds,  and  a  pressing  need  of  two  thousand  I 
Nearly  five  hundred  missionaries,  and  no  further  cable  for 
a  month ! 

How  did  he  know  just  what  that  young  heart  was 
experiencing  ?  How  could  he  be  so  at  leisure  from  himself, 
so  sure  of  God  and  at  rest  in  Him  that  his  first  thought  was 
for  the  faith  of  another  ?  Turning  in  his  chair,  Mr.  Taylor 
held  out  his  hand  with  fatherly  kindness  : 

"  Now  you  will  watch,"  he  said,  and  there  was  even  a 
touch  of  joyous  confidence  about  the  words,  "  You  will 
watch  and  see  what  God  will  do.'* 

A  special  opportunity  for  God  to  work  and  for  faith 
to  triumph — this  was  the  immediate  attitude,  fully  justified 
by'the  events  that  followed.  The  deficiency  was  not  made 
up  by  any  outstanding  gift  on  this  occasion,  but  in  many 
directions  the  hand  of  God  was  seen.  Larger  remittances 
than  usual  were  received  from  Australia  and  other  centres, 
while  unexpected  help  was  forthcoming  in  China,  so  that 
by  the  end  of  the  month  an  average  remittance  had  been 
sent  to  all  the  stations  with  more  than  an  average  sense 
of  the  love  and  care  of  Him  Who  "  abideth  faithful,"  Who 
even  when  our  faith  wavers  "  cannot  deny  Himself." 

Shortly  before  the  settlement  of  home  difficulties,  a 
remarkable  instance  of  the  kind  occurred  in  England  which 
brought  great  joy  to  all  at  Pyrland  Road.  It  was  the  3rd  of 
October  (1892),  and  Mr.  Taylor,  returning  from  an  absence  in 
Scotland,  found  that  the  remittance  for  September  had  not 
yet  been  cabled  to  Shanghai,  the  Financial  Secretary  having 
waited  to  consult  him  as  to  how  best  to  dispose  of  the  small 
sum  in  hand.  The  Council  was  to  meet  that  evening,  and 
the  balance  being  wholly  inadequate,  Mr.  Taylor  suggested 
delaying  another  day  before  sending  the  telegram,  and 
setting  aside  the  ordinary  business  of  the  Council,  that  the 
time  might  be  given  to  waiting  upon  God  for  funds.  The 
September  receipts,  however,  Mr.  Fishe  reminded  him, 
could  not  be  added  to  in  any  case ;  so  the  telegram  was 
sent,  and  the  matter  was  specially  remembered  at  mid-day 
when  the  household  gathered  for  prayer.  Late  that  after- 
noon a  letter  was  received  at  Pyrland  Road  which  turned 


5i6        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

the  Council  Meeting  into  one  of  praise.  Not  only  did  it 
contain  a  cheque  for  five  hundred  pounds ;  the  cheque 
was  accompanied  by  an  unusual  request.  It  was  from  a 
lady  and  gentleman  who  felt  constrained,  they  said,  to  send 
that  sum  for  immediate  transmission  to  China.  It  was  too 
late  to  despatch  an  additional  cable  that  day,  but  early 
the  following  morning  the  good  news  was  telegraphed  on, 
reaching  Shanghai,  as  it  proved,  at  a  critical  moment. 

The  autumn  meetings  of  the  China  Council  were  in  pro- 
gress, and  very  encouraging  it  was  to  find,  when  the  minutes 
came  to  hand  by  mail,  how  faith  had  been  strengthened 
and  rewarded.  On  receiving  the  first  small  remittance, 
special  thanksgiving  had  been  made  for  past  deliverances, 
and  the  matter  very  definitely  committed  to  the  Lord  and 
left  in  His  hands — it  being  noted  that  only  about  one-fifth 
of  the  requirements  of  the  month  had  been  met.  Twenty- 
four  hours  later,  as  the  Council  reassembled,  the  second 
wire  was  received,  and  Mr.  Stevenson  was  able  to  tell  of  a 
like  sum  of  five  hundred  pounds  which  had  reached  him 
from  another  quarter.  With  glad  and  grateful  hearts  it 
was  recorded  that  '*  the  members  of  the  Council  rose  and 
reverently  sang  the  Doxology." 


CHAPTER   XXXVI 

THE   FORWARD   MOVEMENT 
1893-1894.     Aet.   61-62. 

Never  since  that  October  day  in  1889,  when  the  thoughts 
had  come  to  Mr.  Taylor  that  found  expression  in  his 
pamphlet  To  Every  Creature,  had  the  subject  been  absent 
from  his  heart.  Despite  the  many  grave  difficulties  that 
had  attended  missionary  work  in  China  since  then,  as 
though  the  appeal  of  the  Shanghai  Conference  for  a  thousand 
missionaries  had  aroused  all  the  opposition  of  the  powers 
of  evil,  he  was  assured  that  the  purpose  was  of  God,  and 
had  lost  none  of  his  first  sense  of  responsibility  to  do  all 
that  in  him  lay  to  carry  it  into  effect.  Travelling,  thinking, 
speaking,  planning  new  premises  to  replace  the  long 
inadequate  quarters  at  Pyrland  Road,  encouraging  his 
fellow-workers  by  visits  to  the  Continent  and  to  Scotland, 
where  the  Glasgow  Council  was  growing  in  helpfulness, 
he  quietly  kept  in  view  the  large  reinforcements  that  would 
be  needed  if  "  every  creature  "  in  China  were  to  hear  the 
Gospel. 

With  a  diminishing  income  in  England  and  responsi- 
bilities already  heavy  in  China,  it  might  have  seemed 
an5rthing  but  a  time  for  fresh  advance.  But  the  heart  of 
the  Mission  was  glowing  with  fresh  blessing,  so  that  there 
could  not  but  be  fresh  and  fuller  response  to  all  the  known 
will  of  God.  Just  before  the  annual  meetings  of  this  year 
(1893)  four  days  were  given  to  a  gathering  of  C.I.M.  workers 
at  Pyrland  Road  for  Bible  study  and  prayer.  For  spiritual 
power  both  these  meetings  and  the  anniversary  services 

517 


5i8        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

were  very  marked,  and  Mr.  Taylor's  attitude  toward  the 
financial  problem  was  more  than  ever  one  of  confident  faith. 

"  I  have  often  felt  glad,"  he  said  in  the  evening  meeting, 
"  that  I  was  a  poor  man  ;  that  I  had  no  money  and  could  never 
promise  anything  to  anybody  ;  but  that  I  had  a  rich  heavenly 
Father,  and  could  promise  them  all  that  He  would  not  forget 
them.  And  since  I  have  been  a  father  myself  I  have  often 
thought  of  something  more — that  Ke  could  not  forget  them. 

"  There  are  now  labouring  with  us,  largely  in  the  interior  of 
China,  five  hundred  and  fifty-two  Christian  workers  who  have 
gone  out,  a  large  proportion  of  them,  with  no  means  of  their 
own  and  wdth  no  guarantee  of  support  from  man,  but  every  one 
of  them  with  the  guaranteed  supply  of  every  need  :  '  My  God 
shall  supply  all  your  need,  according  to  His  riches  in  glory  by 
Christ  Jesus.'  They  have  put  it  to  the  test ;  and  that  our  God 
does  at  all  times  fulfil  tliis  gracious  promise  is  no  small  cause 
of  encouragement. 

"  The  hving  God  still  fives,  and  the  hving  Word  is  a  hving 
Word,  and  we  may  depend  upon  it  ;  we  ma*y  hang  upon  any  Word 
God  ever  spoke  or  ever  caused  by  His  Holy  Spirit  to  be  written. 
Forty  years  ago  I  befieved  in  the  verbal  inspiration  of  the  Scrip- 
tures. I  have  proved  them  for  forty  years,  and  my  behef  is 
stronger  now  than  it  was  then.  I  have  put  the  promises  to  the 
test  ;  I  have  been  compelled  to  do  so,.andAaA^e,fojmdXhem  true 
and  trustworthy." 

In  this  spirit  Mr.  Taylor  did  not  wait  for  the  rise  in 
income,  which  came  with  the  latter  half  of  the  year,  before 
taking  steps  in  the  direction  of  advance. 

*'  Pray  much  for  guidance  for  us,"  he  wrote  to  Mr.  Stevenson 
in  November.  "  I  do  not  think  we  are  ready  to  appeal  for  a 
hundred  men  just  yet,  but  we  may  be  six  months  hence." 

And  a  few  weeks  later  : 

**  We  are  encouraged  as  to  our  Forward  Movement.  Yesterday 
either  a  promise  or  a  sum  of  one  thousand  six  hundred  pounds 
was  sent  us  towards  it.  God  always  prospers  us  when  we  go 
forward,  does  He  not  ?  " 

It  was  little  wonder  that  Mr.  Taylor  felt  the  time  had 
come  for  advance.  With  the  enlarged  staff  at  Pyrland 
Road,  much  in  the  way  of  development  seemed  possible. 
A  visit  to  Germany  in  April  and  another  in  August  had 


THE  FORWARD  MOVEMENT  519 

convinced  him  that  many  valuable  workers  for  China  might 
be  added  to  those  who  had  already  gone  out  from  Barmen 
as  associates  of  the  Mission. ^  He  saw  his  way  to  organise, 
as  he  wrote  to  Mr.  Stevenson,  a  thorough  campaign  through- 
out England,  Scotland,  and  Ireland,  specially  with  a  view 
to  calling  forth  young  men  for  missionary  service.  The 
newly  published  Story  of  the  CJ.M.  was  being  widely  read  ; 
funds  were  encouraging,  no  less  than  ten  thousand  pounds 
having  been  received  in  little  over  a  month  for  new  under- 
takings ;  and  with  the  exception  of  a  brief  visit  to  America 
for  the  second  Student  Volunteer  Conference,  Mr.  Taylor 
was  looking  forward  to  a  steady  spell  of  work  at  home  such 
as  he  had  not  had  since  the  days  of  the  Hundred. 

And  just  then,  strange  to  say,  a  little  cloud  no  bigger 
than  a  man's  hand  warned  him  that  he  was  needed  in 
China.  It  concerned  the  welfare  and  usefulness  of  one  or 
more  valued  members  of  the  Mission  ;  and  Mr.  Taylor's 
warm  love  for  them  personally,  as  well  as  his  sense  of  responsi- 
bility for  the  work,  decided  him  to  go  on  from  America  to 
Shanghai  to  deal  with  the  matter.  While  regretting  the 
break  in  his  programme  at  home,  it  seemed  that  only  a 
brief  absence  would  be  necessary,  and  he  allowed  his  name 
to  stand  as  one  of  the  speakers  at  Keswick  for  the  following 
summer.2 

The  Student  Conference  at  Detroit  was  memorable, 
when  John  R.  Mott,  Robert  E.  Speer,  and  other  leaders 
fresh  from  college  gave  evidence  of  the  gifts  which  have 
since  been  so  remarkably  developed  in  world-wide  work 
for  God. 

"  Our  chief  and  only  burden,"  Mr.  Mott  had  written  to  Mr. 

*  At  Barmen  Mr.  Taylor  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  Messrs.  Paas  and 
Polnick  in  the  midst  of  the  encouraging  work  of  which  he  had  heard  on 
their  visit  to  Pyrland  Road  in  February.  At  Frankfort-on-Main  he  was 
impressed  with  the  Student  Conference  in  which  he  took  part,  and  with 
the  earnest,  aggressive  efforts  of  Pastor  Bernus,  whose  guest  he  was  ;  and 
at  Heidelberg  he  was  much  attracted  to  a  young  minister  in  whose  church 
he  held  two  meetings — the  Rev.  H.  Coerper,  whose  interest  in  China  and 
love  for  himself  personally  were  to  bear  rich  fruit  in  days  to  come. 

^  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hudson  Taylor  sailed  for  New  York  on  February  14, 
1894,  accompanied  by  Miss  Geraldine  Guinness,  whose  marriage  to  Dr. 
Howard  Taylor  took  place  on  their  arrival  in  Shanghai. 


520        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Taylor,  in  urging  him  to  come  over,  "  is  that  it  may  be  a  markedly 
spiritual  convention.  God  has  been  with  you  in  other  gatherings, 
as  well  as  in  your  regular  work,  and  we  have  faith  to  believe  that 
you  would  be  a  channel  of  great  spiritual  blessing  in  this  con- 
tinent and  through  it  to  the  world,  if  you  are  at  Detroit.  .  .  . 
Have  we  not  a  right  to  expect  that  God  will  do  mighty  things 
during  these  days,  if  we  comply  with  His  conditions  ?  " 

And  He  did  do  mighty  things,  through  various  instru- 
mentalities. Never  to  be  forgotten  was  one  early  morning 
hour  when  the  great  hall  was  filled  with  students  only, 
who  had  come  together  because  they  w^ere  hungry  for 
definite,  abiding  blessing.  The  message  w^as  the  same 
that  had  brought  help  to  many  in  Shanghai  two  years 
previously ;  and  as  then,  heart  after  heart  discovered 
God's  provision  to  meet  all  depths  of  failure  and  need. 
Years  of  devoted  service  on  many  a  mission-field  were  to 
bear  witness  to  the  spiritual  transactions  of  that  hour. 

A  few  weeks  later,  the  matter  having  been  prospered 
that  had  brought  Mr.  Taylor  to  Shanghai,  he  was  about 
to  leave  again  for  home,  eager  to  help  in  calling  out  men 
for  the  Forward  Movement,  when  all  unexpectedly  he 
found  himself  claimed  in  quite  another  direction.  Far 
away  in  the  north  of  China  complications  had  arisen  which 
threatened  the  recall  of  all  Scandinavian  missionaries  to 
the  coast.  A  little  band,  unconnected  with  the  C.I.M., 
had  recently  commenced  work  in  a  devoted  spirit,  but  on 
lines  so  foreign  to  native  ideas  of  propriety  that  grave  and 
growing  danger  was  the  result.  The  workers  themselves 
were  too  inexperienced  to  realise  the  state  of  affairs,  but 
passing  travellers  had  carried  the  tidings  to  Peking  and 
the  Swedish  Foreign  Office  was  on  the  point  of  taking  action. 
Of  this,  warning  was  received  by  Mr.  Taylor,  and  though 
he  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  missionaries  in  question  he 
could  not  but  see  how  seriously  the  Scandinavian  associates 
of  the  C.I.M.  might  be  affected.  To  those  who  knew  of 
the  situation  it  seemed  providential  that  the  Director  of 
the  Mission  was  in  China,  as  no  one  could  have  greater 
influence  in  the  matter,  or  be  more  Hkely  to  command  the 
confidence  of  the  authorities  in  Peking. 


THE  FORWARD  MOVEMENT  521 

But  how,  even  if  he  gave  up  his  return  to  England, 
could  he  reach  those  far-off  stations  in  time  to  be  of  use 
save  by  travelUng  through  the  entire  summer  ?  It  was 
already  the  end  of  April.  In  a  few  weeks  the  hot  season 
would  begin,  and  the  journey  was  one  that  involved  three 
or  four  months  of  overland  travel.  Little  wonder  Dr. 
Howard  Taylor  felt  concerned,  medically,  when  on  return- 
ing to  Shanghai  from  his  wedding  trip  he  found  his  parents 
gone  and  already  on  their  way  to  the  interior.  Permission 
was  obtained  from  Mr.  Stevenson  to  follow  them,  and  at 
Hankow  the  bride  and  bridegroom  overtook  the  beloved 
travellers,  who  were  preparing  to  set  out  by  wheelbarrow 
to  cross  the  mountains  into  Ho-nan.  Railways  there  were 
none  at  that  time  in  the  inland  provinces,  and  after  the 
barrow  stage  must  come  even  rougher  traveUing  on  spring- 
less  northern  carts.  Exposure  to  the  burning  sun  and 
tropical  rains  of  midsummer  were  serious  indeed,  not  to 
speak  of  the  difficulty  of  obtaining  food  when  villages  are 
deserted  during  the  harvest  season. 

'*  It  may  cost  your  life,  dear  father,''  pleaded  his  children, 
hoping  that  some  other  way  might  be  devised  of  meeting 
the  situation. 

'*  Yes,'*  was  the  reply,  so  gently  made  that  it  seemed 
no  reproof,  "  and  let  us  not  forget — '  We  ought  to  lay  down 
our  lives  for  the  brethren.'  " 

After  this  there  was  nothing  more  to  be  said,  but  they 
obtained  permission  to  accompany  him.  An  experienced 
escort  had  been  provided  in  Mr.  J.  J.  Coulthard,  Mr.  Taylor's 
son-in-law,  whose  wife  and  children  had  just  sailed  for 
England,  and  with  Mrs.  Hudson  Taylor,  who  was  not  to 
be  left  behind,  the  family  party  numbered  five. 

It  was  May  when  they  left  Hankow,  and  September 
when  they  emerged  again  from  the  interior  at  the  northern 
port  of  Tien-tsin.  Five  provinces  had  been  traversed  in 
whole  or  part,  and  all  the  mission-stations  visited  along 
their  route.  Warm,  indeed,  was  the  welcome  received  at 
these  few  and  far-separated  centres  :  for  the  rest,  excepting 
Sundays,  it  was  fourteen  hours  daily  on  the  road — from 
dawn  to  dusk,  all  through  the  blazing  heat — everywhere 


522         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

meeting  crowds  of  accessible,  friendly  people,  amongst 
whom  no  witness  for  Christ  was  to  be  found.  Over  and 
over  again  the  travellers*  hearts  were  saddened  at  haying 
to  leave  groups  of  interested  hearers  who  begged  them  to 
stay  longer  or  promise  to  return  and  teach  them  more. 
The  family  relationships  proved  a  source  of  endless  interest. 
It  was  all  so  natural  from  the  Chinese  point  of  view,  especially 
the  daughter-in-law  !  and  everywhere  people  met  them 
with  a  smile. 

"  Perhaps  that  is  because  we  smile  at  them,"  said  the 
bridegroom,  who  also  had  noticed  the  fact. 

And  certainly  there  was  sunshine  in  the  hearts  and  on 
the  faces  of  the  little  party,  despite  the  heat  and  dust, 
the  weariness  by  day  and  broken  rest  at  night,  in  inns 
compared  with  which  a  clean  cow-shed  at  home  would  be 
luxury. 

And  what  shall  be  said  of  the  wheelbarrows — those 
characteristic  Ho-nan  conveyances,  whose  chief  recommenda- 
tion from  the  point  of  view  of  a  wedding  journey  is  that 
they  are  designed  to  carry  two  victims  rather  than  one. 
Primitive  springless  constructions,  they  consist  of  a  strong 
wooden  frame  with  one  large  wheel  in  the  middle,  and 
handles  both  back  and  front.  On  either  side  of  the  wheel 
the  passengers  sit,  facing  backwards,  and  the  whole  is  covered 
by  a  hood  of  bamboo  matting.  Food  baskets  and  light 
baggage  may  be  piled  up  in  front,  while  inside  the  travellers' 
bedding  is  spread  out,  to  save  those  poor  unfortunates  from 
being  shaken  and  battered  beyond  possibiHty  of  endurance. 

"  As  soon  as  we  were  in,"  wrote  the  youngest  of  the  party, 
*'  one  powerful  young  barrowman  slipped  the  broad  canvas  strap 
across  his  shoulders,  Hfted  and  balanced  the  barrow — throwing 
us  backward  at  a  sharp  incline — and  called  to  the  other  man  in 
front  to  start  away.  With  a  creak,  a  jolt,  and  a  long,  strong  pull, 
the  cumbrous  machine  moved  slowly  forward.  The  dust  began 
to  rise  around  us  from  the  feet  of  the  men  and  the  wheel  track 
in  the  sandy  road.  With  a  gasp  we  clung,  as  for  dear  life,  to  the 
framework  of  the  barrow,  jumbling  heavily  over  ruts  and  stones. 
Dry  and  oil-less,  the  slowly  revolving  wheel  set  up  a  discordant 
wail ;  large  beads  of  perspiration  stood  out  upon  the  forehead 
of  the  man  scarcely  a  yard  away  from  us,  bending  so  determinedly 


THE  FORWARD  MOVEMENT  523 

to  his  task  ;  the  friendly  crowds  disappeared  in  the  distance,  and 
our  journey  was  begun." 

Ten  days  of  such  travelling  brought  the  party  to  Mr. 
Coulthard's  station,  the  great,  busy  mart  of  Chow-kia-kow. 
Here  the  church  members,  seventy  in  number,  were  on  the 
tiptoe  of  expectation.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Shearer  and  their 
fellow-workers  received  the  dusty  pilgrims  with  loving 
hospitality,  and  late  though  it  was,  cards  and  letters  of 
welcome  poured  in.  The  next  day  was  Sunday,  and  at  an 
early  hour  guest-halls  began  to  fill  with  visitors.  Among 
them  came  dear  old  Mr.  Ch'en — dignified,  keen,  and  irre- 
proachably dressed  in  his  pale  silk  gown,  but  moved  to  the 
heart  at  the  prospect  of  meeting  Mr.  Taylor.  As  the  latter 
left  his  room  to  go  to  breakfast,  Mr.  Ch'en  stood  in  the 
courtyard  to  greet  him,  and  very  touching  it  was  to  see  the 
bowings  and  interchange  of  courtesies,  and  the  unaffected 
love  and  reverence  with  which  the  ex-Mandarin  said,  again 
and  again  : 

"  But  for  you.  Venerable  Sir,  we  should  never  have 
known  the  love  of  Jesus." 

A  letter  beautifully  penned  on  a  large  sheet  of  red 
paper  further  expressed  his  feelings  : 

I  bathe  my  hands  and  reverently  greet — 

The  Venerable  Mr.  Taylor,  who  from  the  beginning  raised  up 
the  C.I.M.  with  its  worthy  leaders,  elders,  and  pastors. 

You,  Sir,  constantly  travelling  between  China  and  the  foreign 
lands,  have  suffered  much  weariness  and  many  labours.  .  .  . 
And  in  our  midst  you  have  shown  forth  the  seals  of  your  apostle- 
ship — 2  Cor.  xii.  II  (last  clause)  and  12  (first  and  second  clauses). 
It  is  the  glorious,  redeeming  grace  of  the  Saviour  that  has  blessed 
us,  but  it  has  been,  Sir,  through  your  coming  amongst  us  and 
leading  us  in  the  true  way  ;  otherwise  v/e  had  not  been  able  to 
find  the  gate  whereby  to  enter  the  right  path.  .  .  . 

God  grant  you,  our  aged  Teacher,  to  be  spared  to  await  the 
coming  of  our  Lord,  when  Jesus  Christ  shall  become  King  of 
kings  and  Lord  of  lords  (Rev.  xviii.  14).  We  are  assured,  Sir, 
that  you  will  certainly  hold  high  ofiice  in  the  Millennial  Kingdom, 
and  reign  with  Jesus  Christ  a  thousand  years  ;  also  that  at  the 
close  of  the  Millennium  you  will  closely  follow  Jesus  when  He 
ascends  up  to  heaven. 


524         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Among  our  own  household,  and  indeed  throughout  the  little 
church  in  and  around  Chow-kia-kow,  there  is  no  one  who  does 
not  esteem  you  highly. 

Respectfully  wishing  peace, 

The  very  unworthy  member, 

Ch'en  named  Pearly  Wave. 

I  bow  my  head,  and  respectfully  salute. 

A  feast  for  the  whole  household  in  handsome  native 
style  was  sent  round  the  following  day,  Mr.  Ch'en  feeling 
*'  unworthy  '*  to  invite  the  Venerable  Chief  Pastor  to  his 
"  mean  abode."  The  cooking  he  had  himself  superintended 
— "  six  basins  of  the  largest  size,  containing  prepared  meats 
such  as  are  used  in  ancestral  worship."  On  hearing  that 
Mr.  Taylor  had  to  avoid  pepper,  he  prepared  with  his  own 
hands  special  provisions  for  the  road,  which  arrived  with 
the  following  characteristic  note  : 

Honourable  and  Most  Reverend  Mr.  Taylor  : 
Ch'en  of  the  Pearly  Wave  bows  his  head. 

I  write  this  respectfully  to  present  to  you  some  travellers' 
provisions — minced  meat  boiled  in  oil,  spiced  apricot  kernels,  and 
pickled  water-melon.  Be  pleased  graciously  to  receive  these  at 
my  hands.  Of  the  spiced  meats,  one  kind  without  cayenne 
pepper  is  for  the  special  use  of  the  aged  Teacher,  the  other  with 
capsicum  is  for  the  consumption  of  Mr.  Coulthard  and  your 
second  princely  son.  I  write  this  note  on  purpose  to  wish  you 
peace. 

ist  day  of  the  Midsummer  moon. 

The  poorer  Christians  also  could  not  do  enough  to  express 
love  and  gratitude.  A  little  collection  made  among  them- 
selves was  expended  on  cakes  and  sweetmeats  with  much 
ornamental  red  paper  ;  and  a  few  days  later  one  dear  old 
coolie  came  to  the  missionary-in-charge  with  a  matter 
that  was  causing  him  exercise  of  mind.  The  travellers 
had  passed  on  their  way  by  that  time,  but  he  was  following 
them  daily  in  prayer. 

**  I  have  been  thinking  about  the  Venerable  Chief  Pastor," 
he  said.  "  His  life  is  so  precious  !  but  he  is  far  from  strong. 
I  am  not  old  yet ;  I  might  live  another  ten  or  twenty  years. 


THE  FORWARD  MOVEMENT  525 

But  Mr.  Taylor Teacher,  I  want  you  to  know  :    if  I 

should  die  suddenly,  it  is  because  I  have  offered  the  remain- 
ing years  of  my  life  that  they  may  be  added  to  his  life.  It 
is  not  to  be  spoken  about.  It  is  just  my  heart's  desire 
before  the  Lord."  ^ 

Doubtless  the  prayers  of  these  dear  Christians  had  much 
to  do  with  the  safety  of  the  travellers,  and  the  way  in  which 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  were  enabled  to  endure  exposure  and 
weariness,  especially  through  the  long  weeks  of  the  cart 
journey.  For  neither  of  them  were  accustomed  to  this 
strenuous  form  of  exercise,  and  Mr.  Taylor,  having  a  sensitive 
back  from  concussion  of  the  spine,  found  it  decidedly  trying. 
And  then  the  heat !  So  terrific  was  it  that  the  rainy  season, 
though  it  turned  the  roads  into  quagmires,  was  almost  a 
rehef.  But  that  again  brought  its  dangers,  for  rivers  fed 
by  mountain  streams  rose  rapidly,  and  the  fords  were  soon 
merged  in  swirling  torrents.  Yet  it  was  urgent  to  press  on, 
and  the  inns  in  which  other  travellers  were  likewise  detained 
were  of  the  most  wretched  description.  After  three  days, 
therefore,  in  one  place  in  which,  despite  the  rain,  Mr.  Taylor 
preferred  his  cart  to  the  evil-smelling  rooms  that  offered 
the  only  alternative,  it  seemed  desirable  to  set  out  as  soon 
as  the  river  began  to  fall. 

The  carters  reached  the  ford  and  were  about  to  cross, 
when,  to  their  surprise  and  indignation,  another  driver  came 
down  the  bank  and  plunged  in  before  them.  This  was  an 
unheard-of  insult,  for  every  carter  knows  that  he  must 
jog  along  for  hours  behind  respectable  fellow-travellers 
rather  than  pass  them,  unless  invited  to  do  so.  Their  rage, 
however,  was  appeased  by  the  suggestion  that  after  all  it 
was  just  as  well,  as  now  they  would  see  what  sort  of  crossing 
the  others  would  make.  All  went  prosperously  awhile. 
The  mules  waded  out  deeper  and  deeper,  but  managed  to 
keep  their  footing,  until  in  the  middle  of  the  stream  they 
paused  on  a  sandbank  to  rest.  Then  came  intense  excite- 
ment as  they  were  seen  to  go  down  into  the  main  body  of 

^  This  faithful  friend.  Dr.  Howard  Taylor's  special  coolie,  was  sub- 
sequently a  great  help  in  opening  two  new  cities  in  Ho-nan  to  the  Gospel 
— Chen-chow-fu  and  Tai-kang,  His  years  were  not  shortened  in  the  way 
he  anticipated,  for  he  outlived  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor. 


526        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

the  stream.  Higher  and  higher  rose  the  water,  until  it 
crept  into  the  cart.  Jumping  and  yelling  wildly,  the  men 
on  the  bank  cried  out : 

"  Puh-chong,  puh-chong  I    It's  all  up  !     It's  all  up  !  " 

And  sure  enough,  the  current  had  caught  the  vehicle. 
Over  and  over  it  turned,  the  mules  disappearing  from 
sight — first  wheels  uppermost,  then  again  the  battered 
covering — ^until  there  seemed  no  hope  for  those  within. 
Had  it  been  Mr.  Taylor's  party,  little  doubt  lives  would 
have  been  sacrificed,  but  the  far  tougher  Chinese  somehow 
survived  and  were  dragged  out  at  a  bend  in  the  river  where 
the  cart  stranded  on  the  opposite  bank.  Needless  to  say, 
our  travellers  did  not  attempt  that  ford.  Taking  a  cir- 
cuitous route  they  reached  a  ferry,  by  means  of  which  carts 
and  mules  were  carried  safely  across. 

Much  more  might  be  told  of  the  experiences  of  that 
journey ;  of  its  answers  to  prayer  in  deliverances  from 
danger,  in  blessing  at  the  stations,  in  the  sparing  of  Mr. 
Taylor's  life  when  stricken  down  with  overpowering  heat ; 
of  Mrs.  Taylor's  brave  endurance  and  beautiful  example ; 
of  the  attainment  of  the  object  in  view,  and  the  final  visit 
to  Peking  to  communicate  results  to  the  British  Minister. 
But  of  even  more  interest  to  Mr.  Taylor  were  the  signs  of 
progress  on  the  vast  and  populous  Si-an  plain,  as  well  as 
in  other  regions,  in  the  work  nearest  of  all  to  his  heart. 
When  he  had  crossed  the  plain  with  Mr.  Beauchamp,  eight 
years  previously,  travelHng  from  Pastor  Hsi's  district  to 
Han-chung,  no  Hght-centres  had  broken  the  darkness  all 
around  them  for  hundreds  of  miles.  Now,  station  after 
station  had  been  opened,  and  in  the  capital — long  one  of 
the  most  anti-foreign  cities  in  China — the  Scandinavian 
workers  were  gathered  whom  he  had  come  so  far  to 
meet. 

It  was  a  wonderful  change,  all  due  under  God  to  the 
devoted  fives  of  a  fittle  group  of  pioneers,  long  homeless, 
scorned,  and  persecuted,  for  Christ's  sake  and  the  Gospel's. 
When  Thomas  Botham  first  went  over  from  Han-chung, 
things  were  so  hard  that  even  he  was  discouraged.  Yet  he 
could  not  give  up  the  task  to  which  he  felt  himself  called. 


THE  FORWARD  MOVEMENT  527 

"  I  am  willing  to  walk  in  the  dark  with  God/'  he  said 
to  his  Superintendent,  himself  one  of  the  first  pioneers  in 
the  province. 

"In  the  dark  with ^od/Vrepliedllr.  Easton-;— 11  why, 
dear  Brother^  jii-  Him,  with  Him  is  '  no  darkness  at 
all/  " 

It  was  a  good  word  with  which  to  begin  work  on  the  Si-an 
plain,  and  much  he  and  his  companions  had  need  of  it ! 
Joined  by  Mr.  Redfern  and  a  few  months  later  by  Mr.  Bland, 
the  young  men  naturally  took  it  for  granted  that  they  must 
obtain  a  settled  dwelling.  Not  so,  however,  the  people  of 
the  plain.  No  one  would  rent  them  a  house,  and  every 
effort  in  that  direction  aroused  intense  opposition.  At 
last  it  came  to  them — "  the  command  is  '  Preach  the 
Gospel.'  Let  us  go  everywhere  and  do  that,  and  leave  the 
rest  with  God.  If  He  wants  us  to  have  a  house  He  will 
give  it,  and  give  it  in  such  a  way  as  not  to  hinder  His 
work." 

Twenty-two  governing  cities,  sixty  market  towns  and 
innumerable  villages  formed  their  parish — a  district  extend- 
ing over  twelve  thousand  square  miles,  in  which  they  were 
the  only  missionaries — and  from  end  to  end  of  it  they  were 
met  with  little  but  opposition.  All  they  could  do  was  to 
move  from  place  to  place,  staying  as  long  as  possible  in  any 
inn  willing  to  receive  them,  preaching  on  the  streets,  and 
seeking  by  Christlike  humility  and  love  to  recommend  the 
Gospel.  It  was  work  that  told,  and  they  were  willing  for 
the  cost. 

When  Mr.  Botham  married,  his  bride  had  already  been 
two  years  in  China  and  was  herself  a  missionary.  Rejoicing 
to  "  suffer  hardship  with  the  Gospel,"  she  determined  to 
make  the  most  of  their  splendid  opportunity,  and  so  much 
sunshine  did  she  bring  into  that  toilsome  Ufe  that  her 
husband  was  able  to  write  : 

I  never  feel  so  happy  as  when  with  all  my  worldly  goods  on 
one  donkey,  and  my  wife  on  another,  I  set  out  to  carry  the 
Gospel  to  some  new  place  on  the  Si-an  plain. 

So  liable  were  they  to  riots  and  disturbances  that  the 
little  company  had  to  divide,  and  scarcely  ever  dared  to 


528        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

be  more  than  two  in  a  city  at  the  same  time.  Even  in  the 
place  where  they  were  most  at  home,  they  might  have  been 
"  foreign  devils  "  indeed,  to  judge  by  the  treatment  accorded 
them  in  the  streets,  and  the  city  gates  were  placarded  with 
posters  accusing  them  of  atrocious  crimes.  For  months 
they  were  troubled  that  they  felt  these  things  so  keenly, 
until  the  passage  came  home  to  them,  "  Reproach  hath 
broken  my  heart  "  (Ps.  Ixix.  20).  Then  it  was  all  fellow- 
ship, deeper  fellowship  with  the  suffering  Saviour — how 
it  Ughted  their  most  humbling  and  painful  experiences 
with  joy ! 

Meeting  Mr.  Bland  returning  from  a  city  in  which  they 
knew  he  must  have  had  a  hard  time,  they  inquired  what 
he  had  been  able  to  do  on  this  visit. 

"  I  was  able  to  praise  the  Lord,"  was  the  brave  answer. 
And  together  they  rejoiced  in  this  victory  of  faith. 

But  their  wanderings  were  not  aimless.  They  were 
literally  carr5dng  out  the  Master's  word,  "  When  they  per- 
secute you  in  this  city,  fiee  ye  into  another  "  ;  but  they  took 
good  care,  as  Mr.  Botham  put  it,  to  "  flee  in  a  circle,"  so 
that  coming  back  from  time  to  time  to  the  same  places, 
the  people  became  used  to  seeing  them.. 

"  Home  still  means  an  inn,"  he  wrote  months  after  their 
marriage,  "  I  might  almost  say  any  inn,  we  are  so  accustomed  to 
travelling." 

And  the  great  advantage  was  that  the  love  and  purity, 
the  sweetness  and  grace  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  those 
lives  "  could  not  be  hid,"  just  because  they  were  lived  so 
openly  among  the  people. 

"  And  I,  if  I  be  lifted  up,  will  draw  all  men  unto  Me," 
how  true  it  was  in  their  experience  !  Two  or  three  years 
sufficed  to  bring  the  change.  Wonderful  things  were 
happening  that  we  must  not  dwell  on  now,  and  returning 
from  a  journey  on  which  they  had  met  with  attention  and 
sympathy — crowds  of  listeners  following  them  in  nearly  every 
place,  and  people  actually  bringing  out  chairs  and  tea  into 
the  streets — the  new  note  of  their  thanksgiving  was,  "  The 
darkness  is  passing  away." 


THE  FORWARD  MOVEMENT  529 

To  this  district  the  leaders  of  the  Scandinavian  Fifty 
had  been  sent,  and  arriving  just  as  these  devoted  Uves 
were  beginning  to  bear  fruit,  they  were  ready  to  take  ad- 
vantage of  the  changed  conditions.  Station  after  station 
was  opened  with  httle  difficulty,  and  the  new  workers, 
being  men  of  faith  and  prayer,  were  enabled  to  hold  their 
own  even  in  the  capital  itself.  Many  a  missionary  had 
sought  to  obtain  a  footing  in  that  important  city,  but  it 
was  reserved  for  Holman  and  his  guitar  to  win  the  day. 
Surrounded  by  a  crowd  bent  on  mischief  that  had  invaded 
his  premises,  he  pleasantly  asked  the  people  if  they  would 
hke  to  hear  him  sing.  Taken  by  surprise  they  listened, 
as  with  musical  voice  and  instrument  he  poured  forth 
Swedish  melodies.  He  was  so  quiet  and  friendly  that  they 
began  to  feel  ashamed ;  and  finally,  as  he  went  on  singing 
— crying  to  God  in  his  heart  for  deliverance — the  crowd 
gradually  melted  away. 

It  was  to  the  city  thus  opened  Mr.  Taylor's  party  was 
drawing  near.  Ten  miles  away  it  was  plainly  visible,  the' 
turreted  wall,  gates,  and  towers  standing  out  against  the 
sunset  sky.  At  the  cross-roads  two  men  in  Chinese  dress 
with  big  straw  hats  were  waiting,  who  turned  out  to  be 
Mr.  Easton  and  Mr.  Hendrikson.  Charged  with  letters 
and  the  warmest  of  welcomes,  they  had  come  to  escort  the 
visitors,  some  into  the  city  and  some  to  the  ladies'  house 
in  the  west  suburb.  Riding  before  the  carts  in  the  gather- 
ing dusk,  they  led  the  way  through  little-frequented  streets, 
and  oh,  the  joy  of  that  arrival  without  observation  !  Seven- 
teen days  of  heat  and  weariness  since  leaving  the  last  mission- 
station  had  prepared  the  travellers  to  appreciate  the  comfort 
of  those  Christian  homes  far  in  the  heart  of  China ;  and, 
luxury  of  luxuries,  they  found  in  each  house  a  well — plenty 
of  clean,  cool  water  at  their  very  doors  ! 

The  helpful  meetings  of  the  conference  can  only  be 
mentioned  in  passing,  and  the  notable  answer  to  prayer 
when  Mrs.  Botham's  life  was  despaired  of,  four  days'  journey 
away,  and  after  seventy-two  hours  of  restlessness  and 
fever  she  passed  into  a  healing  sleep  the  very  evening 
special  prayer  was  being  made  for  her  at  Si-an.     Although 

2M 


530         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

on  account  of  this  illness  Mr.  Botham  could  not  be  present 
the  Superintendent  of  the  province  was  there  with  Mr 
Bland,  and  definite  arrangements  were  entered  into  with 
regard  to  the  Swedish  associates.  A  district,  including 
the  capital  and  extending  north-west  into  the  province  oi 
Kan-su,  was  set  apart  for  them  under  the  general  super- 
vision of  Mr.  Botham,  one  of  their  own  leaders  being  ap- 
pointed missionary-in-charge.  It  was  a  great  joy  to  Mr. 
Taylor  to  see  how  those  in  Si-an-fu  had  grown  and  developed 
during  the  short  time,  little  more  than  three  years,  that 
they  had  been  in  China,  and  to  find  that  though  he  had  to 
suggest  restrictions  that  might  have  seemed  irksome,  the 
ties  were  but  drawn  the  closer  that  united  the  Scandinavian 
Alliance  workers  with  the  C.I.M. 

Very  real  was  the  consciousness  of  that  love  and  unity 
as  he  spoke  to  them  around  the  Table  of  the  Lord  in  the 
last  meeting  of  the  conference.  Dwelling  on  the  secret 
of  a  fully  satisfied  life — the  heart  that  knows  what  it  is 
to  drink  of  the  Living  Water — Mr.  Taylor  referred  to  the 
delight  of  a  well  in  those  days  of  midsummer  heat. 

"  After  our  long  thirsty  journey,"  he  said,  sitting  in  the  midst 
of  those  young  workers,  "  what  refreshment  we  have  found  in 
the  cool,  delicious  water  springing  up  in  your  own  dwellings, 
always  within  reach  !  We  have  never  thirsted  since  coming  to 
Si-an.  And  the  Lord  Jesus  gives  me  a  well,  a  spring  of  living 
water  deep  down  in  my  own  heart — His  presence  there  at  all 
times.  What  do  we  do  with  our  wells  ?  We  go  to  them  and 
draw.  Drinking,  we  do  not  thirst.  So,  having  Jesus,  drinking 
of  the  spring  He  gives,  we  need  never  thirst  again. 

"  Oh,  it  is  so  blessed  to  learn  that  His  promise  is  strictly 
true  !  that '  shall '  means  shall, '  never  '  mea.nsnevej'^.  and  '  thirst ' 
means  thirst :  '  shall  never  thirst ' — no,  not  at  any  time  !  And 
it  is  to  be  a  well  springing  up,  overflowing  in  a  constant  stream 
of  blessing.  Yes,  it  is  for  me,  weak  and  old  and  good-for-nothing 
as  I  am ;  and  it  is  for  you,  young,  strong,  and  able.  '  From  him 
shall  flow  rivers  of  Uving  water.'  God  grant  you  to  find,  as  you 
travel  over  this  wide  plain,  the  truth  of  that  word,  '  Everything 
shall  live  whither  the  river  cometh.'  " 

Name  of  Jesus — living  tide  I 

Days  of  drought  for  me  are  past. 

How  much  more  than  satisfied 
Are  the  thirsty  Ups  at  last. 


THE  FORWARD  MOVEMENT  531 

Reluctantly  we  must  pass  over  the  rest  of  the  journey, 
scarcely  touching  upon  Mr.  Taylor's  visits  in  the  neighbour- 
ing province  of  Shan-si  to  districts  he  already  knew  to 
some  extent.  Mr.  Folke  and  his  fellow- workers  of  the 
Swedish  Mission  in  China  had  occupied  one  important 
region  previously  without  any  witness  for  Christ,  and  very 
delightful  it  was  to  meet  in  the  important  city  of  Yiin-cheng 
a  circle  whose  home-friends  and  churches  had  received 
Mr.  Taylor  with  so  much  cordiality  in  Sweden.  Beyond 
this  point  the  travelling  was  by  moonlight,  to  escape  the 
intense  heat  (120°  in  the  carts)  which  had  almost  cost  Mr. 
Taylor's  life  in  coming  from  Si-an.  Setting  out  toward 
evening,  it  was  a  comfort  to  feel  that  before  the  sun  rose 
again  a  good  stage  would  have  been  accomplished,  though 
dangerous  characters  other  than  wolves  were  to  be  met 
with  in  the  mountains  or  in  the  shelter  afforded  by  tall- 
growing  crops.  Stopped  one  night  in  the  shadow  of  an 
arch  or  shrine,  they  found  that  two  men  had  accosted  the 
foremost  cart. 

"Do  you  carry  foreign  travellers  ?  "  was  the  question 
which  startled  them. 

A  moment  later,  however,  the  situation  was  explained 
by  the  inquiry  in  a  cultured  EngUsh  voice,  **  Is  this  Mr. 
Taylor's  party  ?  " 

Pastor  Hsi  and  Mr.  Hoste  !  Miles  had  they  walked  out 
together  to  meet  the  expected  visitors,  and  warm  indeed 
was  the  welcome  with  which  they  received  Mr.  Taylor  once 
again,  just  where  Mr.  Hoste  had  parted  from  him  eight 
years  previously. 

It  was  a  week  later  when,  the  Ping-yang-fu  Conference 
being  over,  Mr.  Taylor  was  free  to  accept  Pastor  Hsi's 
hospitality  and  spend  a  day  or  two  in  his  home.  Having 
been  there  before,  what  was  his  surprise  on  arrival  to  be 
driven  in  through  courtyard  after  courtyard,  past  house 
and  farm  buildings,  till  an  open  space  was  reached  that 
looked  like  a  threshing-floor.  There  stood  an  ample  table 
covered  with  a  clean  white  cloth  and  other  preparations 
for  a  "  foreign  "  meal.  Overhead  a  brown  awning,  supported 
on  a  dozen  or  more  wooden  masts,  formed  a  sheltering  roof. 


532         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

and  in  the  background  a  building  (could  it  be  a  bam  ?) 
stood  with  open  doors.  To  this  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  were 
led — and  lo,  a  royal  pavilion,  a  whole  suite  of  apartments, 
beautifully  arranged,  clean,  cool,  and  ready  for  use  ! 

With  growing  astonishment  they  explored  its  resources, 
touched  by  evidences  of  loving  thoughtfulness  on  every 
hand.  The  central  dining-room  gave  access  to  a  large 
sleeping  apartment  on  one  side,  and  to  a  couple  of  smaller 
chambers  on  the  other.  All  were  comfortably  furnished  and 
most  inviting.  Lamps  were  ready  on  the  tables,  fresh  straw 
mats  completely  covered  the  floors,  new  bamboo  curtains  as 
well  as  coloured  hangings  protected  doors  and  windows,  new 
white  felt  rugs  were  laid  over  fine  white  matting  on  each  of 
the  beds.  The  tables  were  spread  with  red  covers,  and  neatly 
laid  in  the  centre  of  each  was  a  square  of  green  oil-silk,  beauti- 
fully rich  in  colour.  Brass  basins,  shining  like  mirrors,  were 
placed  upon  little  stands  ready  for  use,  with  clean  white 
towels  and  new  cakes  of  the  best  Pears*  soap  !  The  whole 
place,  in  a  word,  was  so  clean  and  attractive,  so  poUshed 
and  radiant,  that  they  could  hardly  believe  their  eyes. 

And  there  stood  dear  Pastor  and  Mrs.  Hsi  eager  to  see  if 
they  were  pleased,  but  disclaiming  gratitude  or  remonstrance. 

"It  is  nothing.  It  is  altogether  unworthy.  Gladly 
would  we  have  arranged  far  better  for  our  Venerable  Chief 
Pastor  and  his  family." 

Nothing  could  exceed  the  love  and  joy  of  that  welcome, 
in  which  the  whole  household  took  part.  Pastor  Hsi 
himself  brought  hot  water  for  washing,  and  kept  the  cups 
filled  with  tea.  He  hastened  the  mid-day  meal,  covering 
the  table  with  good  things,  and  insisted  on  waiting  in 
person,  lest  his  helpers  should  not  be  quick  enough  to 
anticipate  every  wish.  Very  touching  it  was  to  see  his 
eyes  fill  with  tears,  as  Mr.  Taylor  tried  to  thank  him  again 
and  again,  and  to  hear  him  say  : 

"  What,  sir,  have  you  suffered  and  endured  that  we 
might  have  the  Gospel !  This  is  my  joy  and  privilege. 
How  could  I  do  less  ?  "  ^ 

*  The  beautiful  suite  of  rooms  was  as  new  to  Mr.  Hoste  as  it  was  to 
the  travellers,  and  later  on  he  let  out  the  secret  of  the  transformation 


THE  FORWARD  MOVEMENT  533 

Gladly  would  we  linger  over  changes  that  told  of  progress 
in  the  work,  and  all  the  development  in  spiritual  things 
that  Mr.  Taylor  rejoiced  to  witness.  For  harvest  days  had 
come  in  Southern  Shan-si,  of  which  he  had  seen  the  promise, 
and  in  spite  of  many  problems  the  outlook  was  full  of 
encouragement.  Far  away  from  the  Western  Chang  village 
events  were  transpiring,  however,  that  were  to  have  an 
important  bearing  on  Mr.  Taylor's  movements.  Hastening 
to  complete  the  matter  he  had  in  hand,  the  leader  of  the 
Mission  was  anticipating  a  speedy  return  to  England  to 
take  up  the  Forward  Movement  he  had  reluctantly  left  in 
February.  But  there  is  an  unseen  Leader  Whose  great 
ends  are  served  by  all  happenings  and  in  ways  we  should 
least  devise.  The  very  day  Mr.  Taylor  spent  in  the  deHght- 
ful  hospitality  of  Pastor  Hsi's  home  (July  25)  witnessed 
the  outbreak  of  war  between  China  and  Japan,  and  by  the 
time  he  reached  Shanghai  it  was  evident  that  he  could  not 
absent  himself  from  the  scene  of  danger.  Things  were 
going  badly  for  the  Chinese,  and  there  was  no  knowing 
when  or  how  baffled  rage  against  the  enemy  might  react 
upon  other  "  foreigners."  All  thought  of  leaving  for 
England  had  to  be  abandoned,  and  the  visit  to  China  that 
had  already  lengthened  out  from  weeks  to  months  was 
prolonged  indefinitely. 

scene.  The  building  really  was  a  barn,  consisting  of  nothing  but  a  roof 
and  three  bare  walls.  The  new  front  and  windows,  partitions,  plastering, 
white-washing,  and  hangings  had  been  put  in  expressly  for  their  use, 
and  the  furniture  carried  from  Pastor  Hsi's  own  rooms  across  several 
courtyards.     And  all  this  for  a  visit  of  a  day  or  two  1 


PART  VIII 
WORN  OUT  WITH  LOVING 

1895-1905.     Aet.  63-73. 

Chap.  37.  Can  Ye  drink  of  the  Cup? 

„       38.  Again  the  Forward  Movement. 

»>       39-  Even  so,  Father. 

„       40.  Waters  of  Rest. 

„       41.  His  Way  is  perfect. 

x,      42.  Prayers  yet  to  be  answered. 


"  We  see  Jesus  who  was  made  a  little  lower  than  the  angels  for 
the  suffering  of  death,  crowned  with  glory  and  honour  ;  that  He  by 
the  grace  of  God  should  taste  death  for  every  man." 

"  He,  the  Lord  of  angels,  became  lower  than  the  angels,  and  He 
Who  was  eternal  and  necessarily  deathless  took  on  Him  a  mortal 
frame  in  order  to  die.  Yet  we  are  told  of  Him  that,  being  made  a 
httle  lower  than  the  angels.  He  was  '  crowned.'  This  crowning  was 
peculiar  :  it  was  that  of  tasting  death  for  every  man  ;  it  was  the 
glory  and  honour  of  suffering,  of  conquering  him  who  had  the  power 
of  death  ...  by  submission,  not  by  resistance." — J.  Hudson 
Taylor. 

"  For  it  became  Him,  for  whom  are  all  things,  in  bringing  many 
sons  unto  glory,  to  make  the  Captain  of  their  salvation  perfect 
through  sufferings.  For  both  He  that  sanctifieth  and  they  who  are 
sanctified  are  all  of  one  :  for  which  cause  He  is  not  ashamed  to  call 
them  brethren." — ^Heb.  ii.  9,  10. 

"  Well,  it  is  but  a  Uttle  while  and  He  will  appear  to  answer  all 
enigmas  and  to  wipe  away  all  tears.  I  would  not  wish,  then,  to  be 
of  those  who  had  none  to  wipe  away,  would  you  ?  " — J.  Hudson 
Taylor. 


CHAPTER   XXXVII 

CAN   YE   DRINK   OF  THE   CUP  ? 
1895.     Aet.  63. 

With  the  close  of  the  Japanese  War  in  April  (1895)  came 
the  close  also  of  the  period  in  which  the  thousand  missionaries 
were  looked  for  in  response  to  the  appeal  sent  out  by  the 
Shanghai  Conference  of  1890.  As  Chairman  of  the  Com- 
mittee to  report  results,  Mr.  Taylor  was  thankful  to  be  able 
to  state  that  not  a  thousand  only,  but  one  thousand  one 
hundred  and  fifty-three  new  workers  had  been  added  to  the 
missionary  staff  in  China  during  that  time — a  wonderful 
answer  to  prayer  that  could  not  but  call  forth  widespread 
thanksgiving.  And  yet,  as  he  pointed  out,  it  was  far  from 
final,  in  the  sense  of  having  attained  the  end  in  view.  A 
great  step  forward  had  been  taken,  but  it  left  the  primary 
duty  —  that  of  making  known  the  Gospel  "to  every 
creature  "  in  China,  in  obedience  to  the  Master's  great 
command — still  unfulfilled.  For  out  of  the  eleven  to  twelve 
hundred  new  missionaries  only  four  hundred  and  eighty 
were  men  ;  and  this  number,  divided  among  the  forty-five 
societies  which  had  sent  them,  would  only  give  an  average 
of  ten  to  each.  Clearly,  as  many  of  these  societies  were 
working  in  provinces  on  or  near  the  coast,  the  addition  of 
even  this  large  number  hardly  affected  the  situation  in  the 
great  waiting  world  of  inland  China.  It  was  for  these 
unreached  millions  Mr.  Taylor  pleaded  still  and  with  re- 
newed urgency. 

"  An  important  crisis  in  China's  history  has  been  reached," 
he  wrote  on  behalf  of  the  Committee.     "  The  war  just  terminated 

537 


538         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

does  not  leave  her  where  she  was.  It  will  inevitably  lead  to  a 
still  wider  opening  of  the  empire  and  to  many  new  developments. 
If  the  Church  of  Christ  does  not  enter  the  opening  doors,  others 
will,  and  they  may  become  closed  against  her.  .  .  .  Time  is 
passing.  If  a  thousand  men  were  needed  five  years  ago,  they 
are  much  more  needed  now.  ...  In  view  of  the  new  facilities 
and  enlarged  claims  of  China,  the  next  five  years  should  see 
larger  reinforcements  than  those  called  for  in  1890.  Will  not 
the  Church  arise  and  take  immediate  and  adequate  action  to 
meet  the  pressing  needs  of  this  vast  land  ?  " 

In  the  same  spirit  he  addressed  himself  to  the  home 
circle  of  the  C.I.M. — the  friends  long  tried  and  proved, 
whose  fellowship  in  the  work  of  the  Gospel  had  made  so 
many  an  advance  possible. 

"  A  new  call  is  given  us  to  hasten  the  evangehsation  of 
China,"  he  wrote  on  his  sixty- third  birthday,  with  reference  to 
the  war  and  its  outcome.  "  Let  us  remember  the  power  we 
possess  in  united  prayer.  ..." 

Touching  upon  many  causes  for  thankfulness  in  the 
development  of  the  Mission,  he  continued  : 

"  Now  we  have  peace,  we  must  look  for  large  and  immediate 
reinforcements.  We  in  the  C.I.M.  have  been  conscious  that  God 
has  been  preparing  us  for  this.  Needed  facilities  have  been 
supplied,  without  which  large  reinforcements  would  have  em- 
barrassed us.  .  .  .  Never  before  were  we  so  well  prepared  for 
definite  advance,  and  our  hope  and  prayer  is  that  now  the  war 
is  over  we  may  have  given  to  us  many  '  willing,  skilful '  helpers, 
men  and  women,  for  every  department  of  missionary  service. 

"  Continue  to  pray  for  us,  dear  friends,  and  to  help  us  as 
God  may  lead  you.  Thank  God  for  the  hundreds  of  souls  being 
reaped  year  by  year,  and  ask  that  soon  the  annual  increase  may 
be  very  much  larger.  Pray  that  only  Spirit-filled  missionaries 
may  be  sent  out,  and  that  all  of  us  here  may  overflow  with  the 
Living  Water."  ^ 

But  the  effect  upon  missionary  work  of  the  tragic  events 
which  had  transpired  was  to  be  serious  and  far-reaching. 
Five  years  yet  remained  of  Mr.  Taylor's  active  service, 
years  which,  though  they  brought  no  lessening  of  the  sense 
of  responsibility  that  had  come  to  him,  raised  unparalleled 
difficulties  in  the  way  of  carrjdng  out  the  project  so  much 

^  From  a  circular  letter  dated  Shanghai,  May  21,  1895. 


CAN  YE  DRINK  OF  THE  CUP  ?  539 

upon  his  heart.  China  had  entered  at  last  upon  the  troubled 
period  of  transition  from  her  exclusive  policy  of  centuries 
to  the  reluctant  but  inevitable  acceptance  of  her  place  in 
the  great  family  of  nations.  The  change  was  not  one  that 
Qould  take  place  easily ;  and  the  weakening,  through  loss 
of  prestige,  of  the  Imperial  Government  at  Peking  let  loose 
forces  of  disorder  in  many  parts  of  the  country.  Thus 
barely  a  week  after  the  above  letter  was  written  Mr.  Taylor 
began  to  hear  of  riots,  persecutions,  and  rebellion,  from  the 
coast  right  out  to  the  borders  of  Tibet.  Sitting  quietly  at 
breakfast  on  Sunday  the  ist  of  June  a  telegram  was  put 
into  his  hands  which  brought  the  startling  tidings  : 

Riot    in    Cheng-tu.^    All    missions    destroyed :     friends    in 

ya-men . 

This  was  followed  by  another  and  another,  until  within 
ten  days  he  learned  of  destruction  in  all  the  central  stations 
of  the  Mission  in  that  province,  except  Chung-king  on  the 
Yangtze,  from  which  many  of  the  refugees  were  being 
helped.  At  the  same  time  bitter  persecution  broke  out 
against  the  Christians  in  the  Wen-chow  district,  one  of  the 
oldest  and  most  fruitful  in  the  Mission.  Tidings  kept 
coming  of  homes  attacked  and  pillaged,  families  fleeing  for 
refuge  to  the  Mission  compound,  and  a  work  that  had  taken 
long  years  to  build  up  threatened  with  complete  devastation. 

Nor  were  these  the  most  serious  issues.  They  were 
symptomatic  of  general  excitement  and  unrest.  Gradually 
the  facts  were  becoming  known  as  to  the  defeat  suffered  at 
the  hands  of  Japan,  and  loss  of  confidence  in  the  ruling 
powers  was  the  inevitable  result.  Secret  societies  were 
everjrwhere  active,  and  a  great  Mohammedan  uprising  was 
reported  from  the  north-west,  where  C.I.M.  missionaries 
_wereLjthe  only  foreigners.  The  disbanded  soldiery — still 
armed  and  with  arrears  of  pay  due  in  many  cases — were  a 
serious  menace,  and  with  hundreds  of  fellow-workers  in 
inland  stations,  Mr.  Taylor  had  no  little  cause  for  concern. ^ 

^  The  capital  of  the  great  western  province  of  Sze-chwan. 

'  At  the  end  of  March  1895  the  Mission  numbered  621  members, 
settled  in  122  central  stations,  90  of  which  were  in  the  eleven  formerly 
unoccupied  provinces. 


540         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Over  a  thousand  miles  from  Sze-chwan  and  kept  in 
suspense  for  weeks  until  letters  could  reach  him,  he  was 
specially  exercised  about  the  Church  of  England  district  in 
which  the  work  had  been  full  of  promise.  In  that  group  of 
stations  alone  the  number  of  baptized  believers  had  risen 
from  fifty  to  a  hundred  during  the  previous  year ;  and  for 
the  time  being  they  were  deprived  of  their  leader,  Mr. 
Cassels  being  at  home  on  furlough.  Would  they  be  scattered 
now,  and  the  work — outcome  of  so  much  prayer — be  brought 
to  a  standstill  ?  Mr.  Taylor  believed  not ;  and  in  the  midst 
of  his  distress,  on  behalf  of  the  native  Christians  as  well  as 
his  fellow-missionaries,  he  was  enabled  to  rejoice  as  never 
before  in  Ps.  Ixxvi.  lo,  "  Surely  the  wrath  of  man  shall 
praise  Thee  :   the  remainder  of  wrath  shalt  Thou  restrain." 

Then  as  news  began  to  be  received  from  one  district  and 
another,  it  was  cheering  to  see  this  expectation  fulfilled, 
even  in  the  most  painful  situations.  Protected  by  Govern- 
ment officials,  no  lives  were  actually  lost  in  Sze-chwan,  and 
not  a  few  of  the  missionaries  who  had  taken  refuge  with  the 
local  Mandarins  were  allowed  to  return  before  long  to  their 
dismantled  dwellings.  To  their  great  joy  they  found  in 
some  places  that  the  converts  had  been  witnessing  so  faith- 
fully that  new  inquirers  had  enrolled  their  names  and  were 
coming  regularly  for  instruction.  This  was  the  case  in  the 
capital  (Cheng-tu)  and  in  Mr.  Cassels'  station  (Pao-ning), 
where  the  Christians  had  braved  all  danger,  and  coming  to 
the  wall  of  the ya-men,  had  sought  to  reassure  their  missionary 
friends  by  calling  out  fearlessly  :  "  We  are  all  here  !  Not 
one  of  us  has  gone  back." 

In  a  lonely  station  among  the  hills,  from  which  the  ladies 
had  not  been  driven  out,  their  house  was  guarded  night  after 
night  by  Christian  men  who,  unknown  to  them,  volunteered 
for  the  task ;  and  a  woman  of  position  in  the  district  was 
so  concerned  for  their  safety  that  she  came  twenty  miles  on 
her  crippled  feet  to  make  inquiries,  finding  far  more  than  she 
sought,  for  her  heart  was  drawn  to  living  faith  in  the  Saviour 
of  whom  she  thus  heard  for  the  first  time.^ 

^  So  great  was  the  love  of  this  woman  for  the  things  of  God  that  she 
frequently  walked  the  long  distance  from  her  home  to  the  Mission-station 


CAN  YE  DRINK  OF  THE  CUP  ?  541 

Even  when  the  worst  came — the  tragedy  that  was  to 
make  this  summer  memorable  in  the  long  conflict  between 
hght  and  darkness — it  was  immediately  and  wonderfully 
overruled  for  good.  Hardly  could  any  missionary  then  in 
China  forget  the  thrill  with  which  the  news  was  received 
of  the  cold-blooded  murder  of  the  Rev.  Robert  Stewart  with 
his  wife  and  child  and  eight  fellow-workers  of  the  Church 
Missionary  Society.  Mr.  Taylor  was  at  Chefoo  when  it 
happened,  engaged  upon  buildings  for  the  growing  schools, 
and  was  not  slow  to  realise  the  full  significance  of  the  event. 
Never  before  had  the  protecting  hand  of  God  been  so  far 
withdrawn  as  to  permit  of  such  a  sacrifice.  Instances  had 
occurred  in  which  Protestant  missionaries  had  laid  down 
their  lives  one  or  two  at  a  time,  but  they  had  been  few  and 
far  between,  and  no  women  had  hitherto  been  among  the 
number.  Now  mother  and  children  had  alike  been  attacked, 
and  most  of  the  sufferers  were  young,  unmarried  women. 
Gathered  at  a  hill-station  for  rest  during  the  great  heat,  they 
had  fallen  a  prey  to  the  plottings  of  a  secret  society  which 
apparently  hoped  to  involve  the  Government  in  trouble. 
Whatever  the  cause  or  ultimate  results,  the  realisation  came 
home  to  many  a  heart  that  a  new  era  had  dawned  that  day 
(August  i),  and  that  a  great  price  might  yet  have  to  be  paid 
for^ the.  triumph  of  the  Gospel  in  China.  But  there  was  no 
faltering. 

Not  to  demand  reparation  nor  to  mourn  the  loss  sustained 
was  35e  great  meeting  held  that  filled  Exeter  Hall  to  its 
utmost  capacity,  but  simply  to  pray  for  China  and  seek 
divine  guidance  as  to  the  future  of  missionary  work  in  that 
land.  Far  from  looking  upon  what  had  happened  as  a 
check,  the  Secretary  of  the  Church  Missionary  Society 
expressed  the  conviction  of  all  present  when  he  said  that 
it  simply  demonstrated  China's  unutterable  need  of  the 
Gospel,  and  was  thus  a  call  and  challenge  to  advance.      No 

to  attend  the  Sunday  services,  starting  on  Saturday  morning  to  be  in 
time.  Unable  on  one  occasion  to  leave  before  evening,  she  set  out  to 
walk  the  whole  of  Saturday  night,  assuring  her  neighbours  who  remon- 
strated— urging  the  danger  of  wolves  and  brigands — that  she  would  not 
be  alone,  the  best  of  Protectors  was  with  her.  So  she  "  sang  hymns  by 
the  way,  and  was  not  afraid." 


542         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

reference  was  made  to  the  harrowing  details  of  the  massacre, 
though  the  names  of  the  martyr-band  were  read  with  some 
touching  allusions  to  family  matters.  Personal  considera- 
tions were  lost  sight  of  in  the  presence  of  Him  Who  loved 
not  His  Hfe  unto  death,  that  He  might  open  the  gates  of 
Life  to  all  mankind.  Facing  as  never  before  what  it  must 
mean  to  follow  Him  in  His  redeeming  work,  the  whole 
assembly  bowed  in  prayer  as  the  consecration  vow  of  many 
a  heart  was  sung  : 

Were  the  whole  realm  of  nature  mine, 
That  were  an  offering  far  too  small ; 

Love  so  amazing,  so  divine. 

Demands  my  life,  my  soul,  my  all. 

At  that  very  time,  unknown  to  those  who  were  praying 
for  China,  but  not  to  Him  Who  was  watching  over  all, 
another  Httle  band  was  in  utmost  peril,  far  in  the  heart  of 
that  great  land.  After  a  preparatory  stage  of  several 
months  the  Mohammedan  RebeUion  had  swept  down  upon 
the  city  of  Si-ning  on  the  borders  of  Tibet,  where  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Ridley,  their  infant  child,  and  Mr.  Hall  were  the  only 
foreigners.  Ten  thousand  Mohammedans  lived  in  the 
suburbs  round  the  city,  and  it  was  a  terrible  night  (July  24) 
when,  contrary  to  vows  and  protestations,  they  turned  upon 
their  Chinese  neighbours,  and  amid  scenes  of  fearful  carnage 
threw  in  their  lot  with  the  rebels.  Already  the  city  was 
filled  with  refugees,  and  the  missionaries  were  working  night 
and  day  to  care  for  the  wounded.  Led  by  a  beggar  who 
knew  the  healing  virtue  of  their  medicines,  they  had  found 
in  the  Confucian  Temple  hundreds  of  women  and  children 
who  had  made  their  escape  from  burning  villages  and  the 
horrors  perpetrated  by  their  enemies.  Groans  and  wailing 
were  heard  on  every  hand,  and  in  the  twilight  of  that 
summer  evening  they  saw  a  mass  of  human  suffering  that 
was  appalling.  Burned  from  head  to  foot  and  gashed  with 
fearful  sword-cuts,  scores  of  these  poor  creatures  lay  dying 
with  not  a  hand  to  help  them,  for  no  one  would  go  near  even 
with  food  and  water. 

Then  the  missionaries  understood  why  they  had  felt  so 


CAN  YE  DRINK  OF  THE  CUP  ?  543 

definitely  that  they  ought  to  stay  on  in  the  city,  when  they 
might  have  made  good  their  escape.  This  was  the  work 
for  which  they  were  needed,  the  work  that  was  to  open 
hearts  to  the  Gospel  as  years  of  preaching  had  not  done. 
With  heroic  corn-age  they  gave  themselves  to  the  task,  and 
throughout  all  that  followed  never  ceased  their  ministra- 
tions. Amid  scenes  passing  conception  they  cared  for  the 
wounded  of  both  sides — first  in  the  seven  months  of  Moham- 
medan frenzy,  when  the  Chinese  were  falling  before  them  in 
thousands,  then  in  still  more  awful  months  of  Chinese 
retahation.  With  no  surgical  instrument  but  a  pen-knife 
and  hardly  any  appliances  but  such  as  could  be  obtained 
on  the  spot,  they  performed  hundreds  of  operations,  and 
treated  over  a  thousand  cases  of  diphtheria,  not  to  speak  of 
the  dressing  of  wounds  that  occupied  them  from  early 
morning  till  late  at  night.^ 

But  for  the  help  of  a  four-footed  friend  Mrs.  Ridley  could 
never  have  got  through  at  all.  For  their  servants  left  them 
at  the  beginning  of  the  siege,  and  with  the  baby  she  was 
nursing  and  all  the  household  work  on  her  hands,  she  alone 
could  attend  to  a  large  proportion  of  their  patients,  the 
women  and  girls.  Full  gallop  her  brave  little  donkey  would 
go  through  the  busy  streets,  the  people  gladly  making  way 
for  the  mother  whose  baby  was  waiting  at  home.  Well  they 
knew  there  was  nothing  she  would  not  do  to  comfort  the 
suffering  and  bind  up  broken  hearts,  while  her  own  must 
be  torn  with  anxiety.  Ah,  that  was  what  they  could  not 
understand — the  secret  of  her  peace  ! 

She  herself  could  hardly  understand  it,  as  those  fearful 
days  wore  on.  Once,  only  once,  her  heart  failed  her — in  the 
midst  of  an  attack  upon  the  city,  when  it  seemed  as  though 
all  hell  were  let  loose,  and  that  at  any  moment  the  defences 

^  It  was  wonderful  how  they  were  helped,  for  neither  Mr,  Ridley  nor 
Mr.  Hall  had  had  medical  training,  and  though  Mrs.  Ridley  was  experienced 
in  sickness  she  was  not  a  qualified  nurse.  Operations  without  chloroform 
that  would  have  daunted  many  a  strong  man  she  bravely  took  her  part  in, 
and  they  never  once  lost  a  life  by  cutting  an  artery  in  the  extraction  of 
bullets,  etc.  Cotton  wool  and  oil  for  burns,  and  common  needles  and  silk 
for  sewing  up  wounds  they  were  able  to  buy  in  the  city,  as  also  the  sulphur 
with  which  they  treated  diphtheritic  patients.  A  foreign  razor  helped 
out  the  pocket-knife  in  surgical  cases. 


544         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

might  fall.  She  was  fully  alive  by  that  time  to  what  it 
meant  to  be  at  the  mercy  of  Mohammedan  hordes.  Had 
not  infants  been  brought  to  her,  scores  of  them,  mutilated 
by  their  savagery  ?  Alone  in  the  house  that  night,  her 
husband  and  Mr.  Hall  being  out  amid  the  panic-stricken 
people,  a  wave  of  terror  swept  over  her.  It  was  Dora, 
little  Dora  she  thought  of.  For  themselves  it  did  not 
matter — but  oh,  her  baby  !  Her  happy,  smihng,  always- 
contented  treasure  !   how  could  she  bear  to  see ?     But 

as  she  knelt  beside  the  sleeping  infant  and  cried  to  God, 
the  Presence  which  is  salvation  so  wrapped  her  round  that 
all  else  receded  and  was  forgotten. 

"  He  gave  me  the  assurance  then,"  she  said,  "  that  no 
harm  should  come  to  us."  And  though  it  was  many  a  long 
month  before  fighting  and  massacre  were  over,  that  agonising 
dread  never  returned. 

To  Mr.  Taylor,  far  off  in  Shanghai,  such  knowledge  as  he 
had  of  the  situation  was  peculiarly  distressing.  Neither 
letters  nor  money  could  be  sent  to  these  fellow- workers,  and 
for  months  together  no  tidings  of  them  were  received.  A 
remittance  forwarded  in  the  spring  had  got  through  before 
the  siege  commenced,  but  it  was  spring  again  when  the  next 
came  to  hand.  Relief  expeditions  sent  by  the  Government 
failed  to  reach  the  city,  more  than  a  thousand  soldiers  losing 
their  lives  in  the  attempt.  Mr.  Taylor  did  not  know  that 
Mr.  Ridley  had  almost  succumbed  to  an  attack  of  diphtheria, 
that  smallpox  was  raging  in  the  city,  and  that  neither  bread 
nor  coal  was  to  be  purchased  at  any  price.  A  winter  of 
seven  months  had  to  be  faced,  with  the  temperature  below 
zero  much  of  the  time,^  and  so  small  was  their  supply  of  fuel 
that  they  had  to  eke  it  out  with  manure,  and  even  so  could 
only  afford  a  fire  at  meal-times.  Had  he  seen  and  known 
it  all,  Mr.  Taylor's  solicitude  could  hardly  have  been  greater, 
however  ;  and  so  much  was  that  little  group  upon  his  heart 
that  not  infrequently  he  rose  two  and  three  times  at  night 
to  pray  for  them. 

And  it  was  wonderful  how  prayer  was  answered  in  their 
desperate  situation.     The  ninety-first  Psalm  could  hardly 

*  Si-ning  lies  in  a  valley  8000  feet  above  sea-level. 


CAN  YE  DRINK  OF  THE  CUP  ?  545 

have  a  more  striking  commentary.  God  raised  up  friends 
for  them,  supplied  their  need  when  money  was  useless  and 
kept  them  strong  in  faith,  so  busy  helping  others  that  they 
had  little  time  to  think  of  themselves.  Without  anxiety 
they  saw  their  stock  of  flour  coming  to  an  end,  sure  that 
before  the  sack  was  empty  more  would  be  provided.  They 
were  thankful  then  to  have  no  servants,  for  to  have  fed  a 
household  would  have  exhausted  their  resources  much  more 
quickly.  They  recognised  a  Father's  loving  care,  also,  in  an 
unexpected  gift  that  had  reached  them,  carriage  paid,  to 
their  door,  shortly  before  the  siege  commenced — two  packing- 
cases  containing  soups  and  jam,  biscuits  and  tinned  meat, 
cocoa,  and  above  all  an  abundant  supply  of  oatmeal.  Many 
months  they  had  been  on  the  way  from  England,  but  One 
Who  knew  when  they  would  be  needed  brought  them  safely 
and  just  in  time.^ 

Another  comfort  was  the  serene  health  of  Uttle  Dora. 
Nothing  troubled  her.  She  would  say  "  ta  "  in  her  pretty 
smiling  way  when  she  heard  the  guns  close  by,  and  was 
happy  in  her  mother's  absence  and  unaffected  by  the  strain 
through  which  the  latter  had  to  pass.  Then  the  kindness 
of  neighbours  was  no  little  help.  An  official  (the  Governor's 
Secretary)  living  in  the  same  street  gave  nineteen  taels 
toward  the  medical  work,  which  purchased  oil,  wadding,  and 
material  for  bandages ;  and  his  wife,  knowing  that  Mrs. 
Ridley  had  no  time  for  cooking,  invited  her  to  run  in  when- 
ever she  could  for  meals.  Another  lady  used  to  send  batches 
of  bread  from  time  to  time,  and  when  in  the  straitness  of  the 
siege  she  could  no  longer  do  so,  she  begged  that  her  cook 
might  make  bread  for  the  Ridleys  from  their  own  flour. 

No  one  guessed  how  hard  up  they  really  were,  because 
Chinese  families  in  their  position  would  always  have  reserve 
stores  of  grain.  When  the  flour  was  running  low  therefore, 
they  had  to  take  very  literally  the  promise,  '*  Trust  in  the 
Lord  and  do  good ;  so  shalt  thou  dwell  in  the  land,  and 
vefily   thou   shalt   be   fed."     Hardly  welcome  under  the 

^  A  like  generous  gift  was  sent  to  every  station  in  the  Mission,  from 
Mr.  J.  T.  Morton,  a  London  wholesale  provision  merchant,  who  was  becoming 
deeply  interested  in  the  Mission. 

2N 


546         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

circumstances  was  a  visit  from  one  of  the  city  magnates, 
for,  being  alone  in  the  house,  Mr.  Ridley  had  to  light  the 
fire  and  prepare  tea,  excusing  as  best  he  could  his  poor 
hospitaHty. 

Too  polite  to  make  any  comment,  the  visitor  was  taken 
aback  by  his  discovery,  and  going  straight  to  the  head 
Mandarin  informed  him  that  the  foreigners  who  were  doing 
so  much  to  help  others  were  without  a  servant  of  any  kind. 
Four  soldiers  were  immediately  pressed  upon  Mr.  Ridley 
to  attend  him  and  look  after  his  *'  animals,"  with  the  result 
that  he  was  obliged  to  explain  his  circumstances  and  that 
he  really  could  not  provide  them  with  food. 

Busy  among  his  patients  next  morning,  what  was  his 
surprise  to  see  two  men  enter  the  courtyard  each  carrying 
a  large  sack  of  grain.  These  were  set  down  amid  the 
delighted  onlookers,  the  bearers  explaining  that  the  Prefect 
had  sent  two  hundred  pounds  of  wheat  as  a  small  recognition 
of  the  virtuous  labours  of  the  missionaries.  Presently  two 
more  soldiers  came  and  carried  the  sacks  to  the  mill,  bringing 
back  the  flour.  Long  before  that  supply  could  be  exhausted, 
a  procession  of  six  men  in  uniform  appeared,  each  with  his 
sack  of  wheat,  which  was  also  ground  and  returned  in  the 
shape  of  six  hundred  pounds  of  flour  !  So  that  without 
asking  help  of  any  save  of  God  alone,  those  children  of  His, 
so  isolated  and  resourceless,  were  not  only  provided  for  but 
were  enabled  to  feed  many  of  the  starving  around  them 
until  the  siege  was  over. 

Meanwhile  Mr.  Taylor  was  making  every  effort  to  reach 
them  with  supplies.  He  knew  they  must  be  still  alive 
because  of  the  burden  of  prayer  on  his  heart  for  them  day 
and  night,  but  for  months  there  was  no  other  encouragement 
to  hope.^  Not  until  the  new  year  dawned  (1896)  did  the 
longed-for  message  come  that  Si-ning  was  reHeved  and 
communication  re-established,  and  even  then  the  reign  of 
terror  was  prolonged  by  the  Chinese  retaliation.      Almost 

1  Writing  to  Mr.  Easton,  the  Superintendent  of  the  district,  on 
October  30  (1895),  Mr.  Taylor  said  :  "  We  are  praying,  I  may  hterally  say, 
night  and  day  for  our  dear  friends  in  Si-ning  and  in  all  the  other  Kansu 
stations.  ...  I  am  almost  hourly  praying  that  God  will  give  more  souls 
this  winter  than  have  ever  been  given  before  in  the  north-west." 


CAN  YE  DRINK  OF  THE  CUP  ?  547 

two  years  in  all  the  fearful  business  lasted,  eighty  thousand 
people  being  actually  massacred,  not  to  speak  of  soldiers 
killed  in  battle  or  frozen  upon  the  mountains.  But  through 
itallthe  missionaries  stayed  at  their  post,  proving  themselves 
the  friends  of  Chinese  and  Mohammedans  alike,  and  winning 
iQve  .and  confidence  that  brought  wonderful  opportunities 
for  the  Gospel.  All  the  country  was  open  to  them.  Wher- 
ever they  went  they  found  known  and  unknown  friends,  and 
the  work  they  could  not  overtake  emphasised  afresh  the 
need  for  large  and  immediate  reinforcements.  But  that 
belongs  to  a  later  period. 

Anxiety  about  Si-ning  was  at  its  height  when,  in  the 
middle  of  October,  tidings  reached  Mr.  Taylor  in  Shanghai 
that  added  a  poignant  element  to  the  already  full  cup  of 
1895.  Troubles  and  dangers  had  followed  one  another  in 
quick  succession,  but  so  far  without  loss  to  the  Mission. 
Now  it  was  cholera  that  had  visited  one  of  the  nearer  stations, 
carrying  off  a  whole  group  of  native  Christians  and  foreign 
missionaries.  Nine  deaths  in  all  had  taken  place  in  ten  days, 
leaving  the  bereaved  community  sorely  stricken. 

And  there  were  circumstances  that  made  the  news 
peculiarly  distressing.  Well  did  Mr.  Taylor  remember  the 
young  husband  and  wife  he  had  welcomed  to  China  only  a 
few  months  previously,  whose  record  in  the  Soldiers'  Home 
at  Litchfield  proved  them  to  be  soul-winners  of  exceptional 
value,  and  the  brave  Scotch  workers  they  had  joined  in  the 
Wen-chow  district,  who  had  stood  the  brunt  of  the  persecu- 
tion already  referred  to  in  this  chapter,  sheltering  in  their 
home  scores  of  the  suffering  Christians.  Could  it  be  that 
of  the  four  only  one  was  left,  and  that  to  her  had  come  the 
double  bereavement  of  losing  husband  and  child  ? 

Not  so  long  before,  it  seemed,  she  had  arrived  in  China, 
having  put  off  her  marriage  with  the  full  consent  of  her 
fiance,  that  they  might  each  give  themselves  to  learning 
the  language  and  becoming  useful  as  missionaries  before 
beginning  life  together.  The  rule  of  the  Mission  in  this 
respect  had  meant,  for  them,  real  sacrifice,  for  they  had 
long  been  engaged  and  were  everything  to  each  other.     But 


548         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

amid  the  loneliness  of  those  first  days  in  China,  she  looked 
as  well  as  lived  the  message  engraved  on  the  simple  brooch 
she  wore  :   "  Jesus  does  satisfy." 

Married  after  two  years  to  Alexander  Menzies,  home  had 
been  to  them  a  little  bit  of  heaven,  and  their  joy  in  one 
another  had  deepened  with  the  coming  of  their  baby  boy. 
And  now  the  letter  lay  before  Mr.  Taylor  in  which  the 
mother  tried  to  comfort  him  in  her  overwhelming  grief. 

"  It  is  just  possible,"  she  wrote  from  Wen-chow,  "  that  you 
may  have  heard  of  the  honour  that  my  God  and  Father  has  put 
upon  me.  Yes,  He  has  trusted  me  to  Hve  without  my  beloved 
husband  and  darUng  child.  They  are  not,  for  God  has  taken 
them.  .  .  ." 

Briefly  she  told  the  circumstances,  sparing  Mr.  Taylor 
most  of  the  touching  details  :  the  father  reaching  home 
from  a  journey  to  find  himself  just  in  time  for  the  funeral 
of  his  little  son  ;  the  bleeding  heart,  so  chastened  in  its 
sorrow  that  he  could  say  to  an  intimate  friend  two  days 
later  :  "  Ah,  man  !  It  has  been  a  blessed  time  for  me  :  the 
Lord  has  made  it  a  sweet  sacrament  to  my  soul  "  ;  the 
short,  sharp  fight  for  Hfe  after  life  on  the  Mission  compound  ; 
three  schoolgirls  taken,  a  man,  a  woman,  and  the  mission- 
aries caring  for  them  to  the  last,  regardless  of  their  own 
danger ;  then  Mr.  Menzies  first  to  go,  followed  by  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Woodman  within  a  few  hours  of  each  other. 

"  It  would  have  been  so  easy  for  me  to  have  joined  my 
Treasures,"  she  continued,  "  but  our  Father  has  willed  it  other- 
wise. My  Treasures  are  gone  and  I  am  left  alone — yet  not 
alone  :   '  Nevertheless,  I  am  continually  with  thee.' 

"  Dear  Mr.  Taylor,  God  has  taken  His  workmen,  but  He  wiU 
carry  on  His  work.  I  do  not  know  what  He  has  in  store  for  me, 
but  I  do  know  He  will  guide  the  future  as  He  has  the  past.  .  .  . 
I  long  more  than  ever  to  do  His  blessed  will.  He  has  taken  my 
all :  now  I  can  only  give  Him  what  remains  of  life.  He  has 
indeed  emptied  me  !  May  it  be  only  to  fill  with  His  love,  com- 
passion and  power." 

So  the  sweet  fragrance  went  up  to  God,  and  the  life  more 
than  ever  given  to  the  Chinese  witnessed,  as  words  never 
could,  to  the  blessed  reahty — *'  Jesus  does  satisfy."    Thus 


CAN  YE  DRINK  OF  THE  CUP  ?  549 

it  was  all  over  the  field  :  sorrow  worked  blessing ;  trials  of 
faith  resulted  in  deeper  confidence  ;  the  bond  of  love  and 
unity  in  the  Mission  was  strengthened,  and  a  spirit  of  prayer 
was  called  forth  that  prepared  the  way  for  more  of  God's 
ov/n  working. 

The  encouragements  of  the  year  were  also  great  and 
many.  After  a  visit  to  the  training  homes  in  the  spring, 
Mr.  Taylor  wrote  with  thankfulness  : 

My  heart  was  much  rejoiced  at  each  place.  Never  have 
parties  of  brighter,  more  capable,  more  consecrated  workers  gone 
out  from  these  homes  than  this  year. 

At  Chef 00  there  was  much  to  be  thankful  for  in  the  growth 
of  the  schools,  and  the  way  in  which  Dr.  Douthwaite's 
medical  work  had  been  prospered.  Beginning  with  three 
thousand  cases  in  the  first  twelve  months,  the  dispensary 
was  now  attracting  over  twenty  thousand  out-patients 
annually,  while  in  the  hospital  hundreds  of  operations  were 
performed  and  in-patients  cared  for.  A  great  opportunity 
had  been  afforded  by  the  recent  war  with  Japan,  of  which 
Dr.  Douthwaite  and  his  helpers  had  not  been  slow  to  avail 
themselves.  At  the  commencement  of  hostilities,  strange 
to  say,  the  Chinese  had  no  provision  whatever  for  Red 
Cross  work. 

"  When  the  attack  was  made  on  the  port  of  Wei-hai-wei," 
said  the  Doctor,  "  the  Chinese  fled  towards  Chef 00,  many  of 
them  very  severely  wounded  and  many  dying  on  the  way.  Snow 
was  deep  on  the  ground,  the  winter  being  almost  arctic  in 
severity.  The  poor  fellows,  bleeding  as  they  were,  had  no 
strength  to  reach  a  place  of  refuge.  Many  sought  safety  in  their 
own  native  villages,  but  not  one  was  allowed  to  remain.  They 
were  seized  by  their  countr5maen,  carried  off  and  thrown  into 
the  sea  and  actually  drowned,  lest  they  should  become  a  burden. 

"  About  two  hundred  poor  creatures  managed  to  reach 
Chef 00  in  an  awful  condition,  their  clothing  saturated  with 
blood.  One  man,  I  remember,  had  seven  bullets  through  him ; 
another,  with  his  knee-caps  shattered,  had  walked  all  the  way, 
forty  miles  ;  a  third,  with  a  bullet  right  through  his  lung,  had 
walked  through  that  bitterly  cold  weather  ;  while  some  crawled 
most  of  the  way  on  their  hands  and  knees,  their  feet  being 


550  THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

frostbitten.  Of  those  that  reached  Chefoo,  we  were  able  to 
take  in  a  hundred  and  sixty-three,  and  care  for  them  with  all 
the  kindness  possible  in  our  hospital." 

The  result  was  amazing  gratitude  and  openness  of  heart. 
Prejudice  was  broken  down  that  had  long  hindered  the  work 
of  the  missionary,  and  for  Dr.  Douthwaite  and  his  helpers 
the  admiration  of  soldiers  and  civihans  knew  no  bounds. 
When  the  war  was  over,  a  General,  with  all  his  staff,  on  horse- 
back came  to  the  hospital,  attended  by  a  brass  band  and 
a  company  of  soldiers,  and  with  great  ceremony  put  up  a 
comphmentary  inscription,  beautifully  embossed  in  gold 
on  a  large  lacquered  tablet.  And  when  the  same  mihtary 
official  learned  that  stone  was  needed  for  the  foundation  of 
the  new  Boys'  School,  he  sent  to  Dr.  Douthwaite  saying 
that  he  would  gladly  supply  it  from  his  own  quarry,  and  that 
his  soldiers  would  be  delighted  to  carry  it  to  the  Mission 
compound,  where  they  had  received  so  much  kindness. 

No  less  encouraging  had  been  the  answer  to  prayer  with 
regard  to  the  new  building  for  the  Boys'  School.  Conducted 
on  the  same  principles  as  the  rest  of  the  Mission,  prayer  was 
the  only  resource  when  the  young  life  at  Chefoo  overflowed 
all  bounds,  and  with  a  hundred  boys  and  girls  in  the  three 
departments  of  the  school  as  many  more  were  waiting  to  be 
taken  in.  Five  thousand  pounds  at  least  were  needed  to  put 
up  a  new  building  for  the  senior  boys ;  and  while  daily 
prayer  was  being  made  for  this  sum,  and  many  were  wonder- 
ing where  the  money  could  possibly  come  from,  a  letter  was 
received  by  Dr.  Douthwaite,  the  Superintendent  of  the 
station,  in  which  a  fellow-missionary  said  : 

The  Lord  has  laid  it  on  my  heart  to  bear  the  entire  cost  of 
building  the  new  school. 

Well  might  the  doctor  write  when  the  beautiful  premises 
were  completed,  upon  which  Mr.  Taylor  was  working  this 
summer : 

Truly,  the  history  of  this  school  proves  that  God  answers 
prayers,  and  that  miracles  are  not  doubtful  events  of  a  by-gone 
age  of  superstition. 

Another  gift  that  brought  great  joy  was  one  the  generosity 


CAN  YE  DRINK  OF  THE  CUP  ?  551 

of  which  far  exceeded  its  financial  value.  In  the  old  home 
at  Hang-chow,  Pastor  Wang  and  his  family  had  united  in 
making  an  offering  to  the  Lord  which  deeply  touched  Mr. 
Taylor's  heart.  Declining  a  settled  salary  that  he  might 
be  on  the  same  faith  basis  as  the  members  of  the  Mission, 
Wang  Lae-djiin  had  yet  been  enabled  to  lay  by  for  his  only 
child  a  sum  which  to  people  in  their  position  was  consider- 
able. His  daughter's  husband  had  long  been  his  co-Pastor 
in  the  Hang-chow  church,  but  while  his  gifts  would  have 
brought  them  affluence  in  a  business  career,  it  was  all  they 
could  do  to  educate  their  large  family  on  the  income  he 
received  in  connection  with  the  C.I.M.  But  neither  Pastor 
Ren  nor  his  wife  would  consent  to  accept  the  savings  of  their 
father's  lifetime. 

A  thousand  dollars — how  large  a  sum  it  seemed  1  No  : 
it  must  not  be  given  to  them  or  their  children.  The  Lord 
had  always  provided  for  their  needs,  and  would  still  provide. 
It  was  far  too  precious  for  any  but  Himself  ;  and  to  Him 
they  would  unitedly  give  it. 

So,  while  the  v>'ar  with  Japan  was  still  going  on,  the 
dear  old  Pastor  came  up  to  Shanghai  to  see  Mr.  Taylor. 
Very  moving  it  was  to  the  latter  to  learn  the  object  of  his 
visit,  and  that  the  money  which  meant  so  much  to  him  and 
his  was  to  be  used,  through  the  Mission,  for  sending  out 
evangehsts  to  carry  the  glad  tidings  to  those  who  had  never 
heard. 

To  the  dear  old  Pastor  it  was  wonderful  to  see  the 
extensive  premises  of  the  Mission  in  Shanghai,  and  hear  of 
the  progress  of  the  work  throughout  the  far  inland  provinces, 
remembering  the  early  beginnings  in  the  little  house  by  the 
Ningpo  canal  to  which  his  beloved  missionary  friend  had 
brought  home  his  bride.  Deeply  their  hearts  were  still 
united  in  the  supreme  longing  that  the  Lord  Jesus  should 
see  of  the  travail  of  His  soul  and  be  satisfied  through  the 
gathering  in  to  Him  of  the  fulness  of  His  redeemed  from 
among  the  millions  of  China. 

Even  this  year  of  trial  stood  out  as  one  of  thankfulness, 
because  it  proved  by  the  blessing  of  God  to  be  the  most 
fruitful  in  soul-winning  that  the  Mission  had  ever  known. 


552         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

"  In  the  midst  of  our  sorrows  God  has  been  working,"  Mr. 
Taylor  wrote,  looking  back  upon  its  experiences,  "  and  it  is  no 
small  joy  to  record  that,  notwithstanding  all  hindrances,  and  in 
some  cases  through  the  very  trials  reported,  many  souls  have 
been  brought  to  Christ,  so  that  a  larger  number  of  converts  have 
been  baptized  in  1895  than  in  any  previous  year." 

Detained  in  Shanghai  amid  all  the  coming  and  going ; 
welcoming  new  workers  from  many  lands,  and  hearing  the 
simple,  often  touching  stories  of  how  God  had  led  them  ; 
feehng  the  throb  of  faith  and  love  that  pulsed  throughout 
the  far-reaching  fellowship  of  the  Mission,  Mr.  Taylor 
might  indeed  have  said,  with  one  of  his  helpers  of  this 
summer  :  "  It  seems  to  me  that  the  Holy  Spirit  is  working 
all  over  the  world  on  behalf  of  China.*' 


CHAPTER  XXXVIII 

AGAIN   THE   FORWARD   MOVEMENT 
1896-1899.     Aet.  64-67. 

It  was  hardly  to  be  wondered  at  that  Mr.  Taylor's  physical 
powers,  so  long  taxed  to  the  utmost  in  the  interests  of  the 
Mission,  should  begin  to  fail  under  the  strain  of  periods 
such  as  this  of  his  ninth  visit  to  China.  It  was  the  heart 
burdens  that  told,  even  more  than  the  responsibilities  of  his 
position  in  a  time  of  political  upheaval  and  general  unrest. 
"  Worn  out  with  loving  "  was  as  true  of  him  as  of  the 
ardent  spirit  of  whom  the  words  were  written, ^  and  his 
service  was  checkered  now  with  times  of  weakness  from 
\yhich  recovery  was  less  complete  and  rapid  than  formerly. 
Little  by  little  the  scaffolding  of  his  life  was  being  taken 
down  from  about  the  work  he  had  prayed  into  being.  Not 
that  those  nearest  to  him  recognised  it,  or  if  they  did  in 
moments  of  anxiety  could  reconcile  themselves  to  the 
thought.  But  he  himself  had  it  steadily  in  view,  and 
rejoiced  in  the  growing  usefulness  of  others,  and  the  way  in 
which  provision  was  being  made  for  leadership  in  days 
to  come. 

The  internal  organisation  slowly  developed,  and  at 
much  cost  was  working  well  throughout  the  Mission.  The 
appointment  of  Mr.  William  Cooper  as  Assistant  Deputy 
Director  in  China  was  proving  exceedingly  helpful,  his  wise 
judgement  and  loving  spirit  making  him  invaluable  at  head- 

^  The  Rev.  Denholm  Brash,  the  devoted  pastor  and  evangeUst,  of  whom 
his  son  presents  so  beautiful  a  picture  in  the  Memoir  entitled.  Love  and 
Life,  pubhshed  by  Kelly  &  Co. 

553 


554         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

quarters.^  Mr.  Broumton  also  had  joined  the  Shanghai 
staff,  the  financial  department  having  been  moved  from 
Wu-chang  in  order  to  consolidate  the  work.  Thus  the 
completed  buildings  round  the  Mission  compound  were 
utilised  to  the  utmost.  More  and  more  the  C.I.M.  was 
saving  expense  and  caring  for  its  workers  through  the 
business  department,  and  in  nothing  was  the  practical  value 
of  its  principles  more  evident  than  in  the  provision  made 
in  this  and  other  ways  for  coming  needs.  Refusing  none 
who  seemed  truly  called  of  God,  whatever  their  nationality, 
denomination,  or  previous  training,  the  Mission  had  been 
given  men  and  women  with  every  sort  of  qualification  for 
usefulness.  If  all  had  been  theologians  or  members  of 
learned  professions,  how  could  the  practical  working  of  so 
large  and  varied  an  organisation  have  been  provided  for  ? 
As  it  was,  when  need  arose  for  the  formation  of  a  diocese  in 
Western  China,  there  was  a  bishop  to  be  found  in  the  ranks 
of  the  Mission.  There  were  superintendents  for  great 
districts,  including  Mr.  D.  E.  Hoste,  recently  appointed  to 
South  Shan-si.  There  were  financial  experts  for  the  manage- 
ment of  complicated  money  matters  ;  stenographers  to  help 
with  the  burden  of  correspondence ;  competent  heads  for 
postal,  shipping,  and  business  ofi&ces  ;  an  architect  and  land 
surveyor  for  building  operations ;  doctors  and  nurses  to 
care  for  their  fellow-missionaries  as  well  as  for  medical 
work  among  the  people ;  and  last,  but  not  least,  qualified 
teachers  for  the  increasingly  responsible  posts  at  Chefoo. 
And  all  these  workers,  each  indispensable  in  their  own 
department,  were  equally  members  of  the  Mission  and 
called  to  spiritual  service  in  China. 

"  We  are  a  very  large  family,  and  rather  mixed,"  said  Mr. 
Cooper  when  the  Mission  numbered  seven  hundred,  "  but  all 

*  With  much  gentleness  of  spirit,  Mr.  Cooper  possessed  strong  indi- 
viduality and  was  fearless  as  to  his  convictions.  Mr.  Taylor's  relationship 
with  the  leaders  in  the  Mission,  and  with  this  beloved  friend  in  particular, 
may  be  judged  from  an  incident  that  took  place  in  the  early  days  of  the 
China  Council. 

"  I  do  not  Uke  so  often  to  oppose  you,"  said  Mr.  Cooper  on  one  occasion  ; 
"  I  think  I  had  better  resign." 

"  No,  indeed  !  "  was  the  reply,  "  I  value  such  opposition  :  it  saves  rae 
from  many  a  mistake." 


AGAIN  THE  FORWARD  MOVEMENT         555 

labouring  in  blessed  harmony  in  this  work  of  works.  With  a 
bond  of  union  Hke  this  and  a  field  hke  China,  we  can  afford  to 
sink  our  differences." 

Of  the  interesting  appointment  of  Mr.  Cassels  to  the 
diocese  of  West  China,  Dr.  Eugene  Stock  wrote  as  follows 
in  his  History  of  the  Church  Missionary  Society  : 

The  China  Inland  leaders  heartily  entered  into  the  plan,  and 
Archbishop  Benson,  who  took  a  warm  interest  in  it,  appointed, 
at  the  suggestion  of  the  C.M.S.  Committee,  and  with  aU  his 
usual  graciousness,  the  head  of  the  C.I.M.  in  Sze-chwan  to  be 
the  new  bishop.  This  was  the  Rev.  W.  W.  Cassels,  one  of  the 
Cambridge  Seven  of  1885,  in  whose  goodness  and  wisdom  all 
parties  had  learned  to  repose  confidence.  The  first  pubHc 
announcement  was  made  at  the  great  Saturday  missionary 
meeting  at  the  Keswick  Convention  of  1895,  and  drew  forth  much 
prayerful  interest  and  sympathy.  The  C.M.S.  guaranteed  the 
Episcopal  stipend,  and  Mr.  Cassels  came  on  to  the  Society's  roll 
of  missionaries,  while  fully  retaining  his  position  in  the  C.I.M. 
He  was  consecrated  on  St.  Luke's  Day,  October  18,  1895,  together 
with  Dr.  Talbot,  the  present  Bishop  of  Rochester  ;  and  he  sailed 
on  that  day  week  for  China.  From  Shanghai  he  wrote  a  striking 
letter  to  the  missionary  workers  in  his  new  diocese,  headed  with 
these  words  :  "  I  am  but  a  Uttle  child  "  ;  "  Jesus  called  a  Uttle 
child  unto  Him,  and  set  him  in  the  midst  "  ;  "A  httle  child 
shall  lead  them."  The  arrangement  has  proved  by  God's 
blessing  a  singularly  happy  one.^ 

When  Bishop  Cassels  reached  China  to  take  up  his  new 
responsibilities,  Mr.  Taylor  missed  the  expected  pleasure 
of  meeting  him  in  Shanghai.  Broken  down  after  a  visit 
to  Wen-chow,  to  which  he  had  gone  immediately  upon 
hearing  of  the  deaths  through  cholera,  he  had  been  obliged 
to  take  a  few  weeks'  rest.  This  gave  opportunity  for  a 
boat  journey  to  several  of  the  Che-kiang  stations,  and  for 
refreshing  intercourse  with  Mr.  Frost,  who  was  again  in 
China.     Accompanied  by  Mrs,   Taylor,  they  went  to  the 

^  Mr.  Stevenson  being  at  home  in  England,  Mr.  Taylor  was  glad  to 
leave  the  matter,  as  concerned  the  C.I.M.,  largely  in  his  hands.  While 
regretting  the  partial  loss  of  Mr.  Cassels  to  the  Mission,  inevitable  through 
the  enlargement  of  his  sphere,  "  I  cannot  but  think,"  he  wrote  to  a  member 
of  the  London  Council,  "  that  it  will  be  for  the  advantage  of  China.  Mr. 
Cassel's  department  is  surpassed  by  nothing  in  tlie  Mission  for  spirituality 
or  success." 


556         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

beautiful  district  of  Chu-chow,  occupied  by  the  Barmen 
Associates  of  the  Mission,  and  completed  the  arrangements 
for  handing  it  over  to  these  fellow-workers — an  important 
step  in  the  direction  of  division  of  the  field.  But  Mr.  Taylor 
was  still  so  unfit  for  any  pressure  of  work  on  his  return  to 
Shanghai  that  it  was  with  thankfulness  they  looked  forward 
to  the  visit  to  India  he  was  to  pay  before  long. 

A  former  member  of  the  Mission,  Miss  Annie  Taylor, 
who  had  made  a  remarkable  journey  through  Tibet,  was 
urgently  needing  help  with  a  band  of  inexperienced  workers 
she  had  been  the  means  of  calling  out.  They  were  in 
Northern  India,  hoping  to  gain  an  entrance  from  the 
Darjeeling  district  to  that  long-closed  land,  and  Mr.  Taylor 
was  to  speak  at  the  first  Christian  Student  Conference  in 
Calcutta  on  his  way  to  join  them.  An  unexpected  gift 
received  for  their  own  use  made  it  possible  for  Mrs.  Taylor 
to  accompany  him,  which  in  his  poor  state  of  health  was  no 
little  comfort.  It  would  have  enabled  them  also  to  travel 
second  class  by  French  mail,  had  they  chosen  to  spend  it  all 
upon  themselves.  But  there  were  fellow-workers  to  think 
of ;  and  though  third  class  meant  separation  in  the  cabins 
for  men  and  women  respectively,  they  were  thankful  for 
berths  near  the  doors  which  were  not  far  apart.  Then  at 
Hongkong,  Mr.  Taylor  was  able  to  write  the  following 
letters,  among  others,  to  Shanghai. 

After  completing  our  arrangements  here  and  making  up  our 
accounts,  I  find  we  have  a  margin  that  will  allow  of  our  providing 
the  ten  pounds  we  spoke  of  as  desirable  for  your  expenses  beyond 
Melbourne.  As  the  Mission  funds  were  low  when  we  left,  we  are 
very  thankful  to  be  able  to  send  this.  I  had  rather  no  one 
knew  of  the  little  gift. 

I  find  the  kind  gift  received  in  Wen-chow  more  than  covers 
my  wife's  travelling  expenses  ;  and  having  come  to  Hongkong 
cheaply,  we  have  the  joy  of  being  able  to  enclose  a  cheque  for  a 
hundred  taels  toward  your  journey.  .  .  .  Please  do  not  let  any 
one  know  of  this,  but  cash  the  cheque  yourself  at  the  bank. 

Few  things  are  more  precious  in  the  records  that  remain 
than  the  frequenc}^  of  such  acts  of  loving  ministry,  at  a 
cost  that  no  one  knew  of  save  the  Lord  Himself,  to  whom 
first  and  most  of  all  their  gifts  were  offered. 


AGAIN  THE  FORWARD  MOVEMENT         557 

But  though  prospered  in  their  visit  to  India,  and  much 
refreshed  by  intercourse  with  workers  in  that  great  field, 
the  needs  of  which  profoundly  impressed  him,  Mr.  Taylor 
was  in  no  condition  to  face  a  summer  in  China,  and  an 
absence  of  more  than  two  years  from  England  made  it 
desirable  for  him  to  be  again  in  touch  with  the  home  work. 
He  returned  therefore  after  the  spring  meeting  of  the  China 
Council,  thankfully  leaving  matters  to  the  wise  and  helpful 
direction  of  Mr.  William  Cooper. 

Great  were  the  changes  that  had  taken  place,  as  the 
travellers  were  prepared  to  find  ;  the  new  headquarters  of 
the  Mission  being  now  completed  and  occupied  at  Newington 
Green.  Knowing  they  would  arrive  from  Paris  during  the 
Saturday  prayer  meeting,  they  avoided  mentioning  the  train 
by  which  they  were  coming,  so  that  no  thought  of  giving 
them  a  welcome  might  disturb  the  meeting.  Friends  were 
on  the  tip-toe  of  expectation,  however,  and  a  larger  company 
than  usual  had  gathered,  the  Mildmay  Conference  and  the 
Jubilee  of  the  World's  Evangelical  Alhance  having  brought 
many  visitors  to  London.  Leaving  their  cab  at  the  entrance, 
it  was  with  great  interest  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  walked  up 
the  private  road  from  the  busy  London  thoroughfare  to  the 
open  door  of  the  hall  for  meetings,  over  which,  carved  in 
stone,  stood  out  the  words  which  meant  so  much  in  the 
history  of  the  Mission — *'  Have  Faith  in  God."  Entering 
quietly,  they  remained  at  the  back  of  the  room  while  prayer 
was  going  on,  so  that  not  until  the  meeting  closed  was  it 
generally  known  that  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  were  present. 
The  warm  welcome  they  then  received  greatly  delighted 
some  of  the  Continental  delegates  of  the  Evangelical  AlHance 
who  were  staying  at  the  Mission- house. 

For  the  new  premises  were  spacious  enough  to  contribute 
to  the  realisation  of  one  of  Mr.  Taylor's  cherished  ambitions  : 
that  of  being  able,  in  measure,  to  discharge  the  debt  of  the 
Mission  for  hospitality  in  many  lands,  by  receiving — whether 
in  London,  Shanghai,  or  elsewhere — those  ot  the  one  great 
family  to  whom  a  home  away  from  home  might  be  a  con- 
venience. Simple  as  it  was  in  all  its  appointments,  the 
London  headquarters  could  acconmaodate  quite  a  number 


558         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

of  guests,  and  in  Miss  Williamson  a  hostess  had  been  found 
as  large  of  heart  as  she  was  full  of  sympathy  with  the  ideals 
of  the  Mission.^ 

Here,  then,  in  the  summer  of  1896,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor 
settled  down  for  the  last  period,  little  as  any  one  realised  it, 
of  their  active  service  in  connection  with  the  work  in 
England.  Their  children  being  scattered  they  no  longer 
needed  a  home  of  their  own,  and  though  with  advancing  age 
they  might  have  been  glad  of  more  of  privacy  at  times, 
they  were  thankful  for  the  closeness  of  touch  with  their 
fellow-workers  afforded  by  the  daily  life  of  the  Mission-house. 

The  retirement  of  Mr.  Broomhall  had  made  a  change 
they  could  not  but  feel  in  the  London  work.  But  Number 
2  Pyrland  Road  was  still  his  home,  and  the  relations  of  love 
and  sympathy  were  unbroken.  The  step  had  been  taken 
during  Mr.  Taylor's  absence,  after  twenty  years  of  service, 
on  Mrs.  Broomhall's  part  as  well  as  his  own,  the  value  of 
which  was  beyond  estimation. 

*'  Few  probably  are  aware,"  Mr.  Howard  recorded  in  the 
minutes  of  the  Council,  "  of  the  immense  amount  of  work  accom- 
plished by  Mr.  Broomhall  in  past  days,  when  he  was  assisting 
Mr.  Taylor  in  the  early  and  rapid  development  of  the  Mission, 
and  almost  single-handed  was  doing  the  work  now  divided 
amongst  several — and  the  Council  feels  that  no  words  of  theirs 
can  adequately  express  all  that  the  Mission  owes  to  his  untiring 
energy  and  unbounded  labours.  And  they  cannot  but  recall 
how,  for  years,  it  was  the  privilege  of  candidates  for  China  to  be 
welcomed  into  the  happy  home  circle  of  Pyrland  Road,  where 
in  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Broomhall  a  great  many  of  our  members  now 
labouring  in  China  found  a  second  father  and  mother." 

The  responsible  post  of  Secretary  was  now  filled  by  Mr. 
Sloan,  and  both  he  and  Mr.  Wood  in  the  deputation  work 
were  leaders  to  be  relied  on.  Mr.  Taylor  thus  found  himself 
free  for  the  larger  issues  claiming  thought  and  prayer,  for 
conference  with  Mr.  Stevenson  and  the  Council,  and  for 
visits  to  Norway,  Sweden,  and  Germany  for  personal  inter- 
course with  the  representatives  of  affiliated  missions.     And 

1  Toward  the  erection  of  these  premises  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  had 
themselves  given  ;^9oo,  though  only  one  or  two  members  of  the  Council 
were  aware  of  the  fact. 


AGAIN  THE  FORWARD  MOVEMENT         559 

then,  with  returning  strength,  he  was  claimed  for  conventions 
and  meetings  of  all  sorts  just  in  the  old  way,  from  the 
Highlands  to  Salisbury  Plain,  and  from  Gloucester  and 
Liverpool  to  the  eastern  counties. 

To  Mr.  J.  T.  Morton,  who  was  increasingly  interested  in 
the  work,  he  wrote  somewhat  later  : 

You  kindly  ask  whether  workers  are  offering  freely  and 
whether  our  funds  enable  us  to  accept  those  so  offering.  I  am 
thankful  to  say  that  we  have  been  enabled  to  send  out  all  suitable 
candidates,  whom  we  felt  to  be  sufficiently  prepared  for  the 
work.  We  have  a  number  still  in  training,  principally  in 
Edinburgh  and  Glasgow.  .  .  .  Sometimes  during  the  past  year 
(1896)  we  have  been  straitened  for  funds  for  the  support  of 
missionaries  and  of  the  general  work,  while  freely  supplied  for 
special  objects.  At  these  times  God  has  helped  us  through,  in 
answer  to  much  prayer.  .  .  . 

Thank  you  for  your  kind  thought  about  myself.  My  aim  is 
to  get  every  part  of  the  work  into  such  a  condition  that  it  can 
be  carried  on  without  me,  and  with  this  in  view  I  visit  different 
branches  of  it  in  turn.  We  are  specially  asking  God  to  give  us 
an  increased  number  of  efficient  leaders,  and  to  preserve  the 
lives  and  health  of  those  we  silready  have. 

Needless  to  say  the  Forward  Movement,  which  had  been 
for  a  time  in  abeyance,  was  the  chief  burden  on  his  heart. 
Wherever  he  went  he  kept  it  to  the  front,  pleading  for  full 
consecration  to  Christ  in  view  of  His  unconditional  command, 
"  Preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature.'*  Busy  indeed  was 
the  winter  (1896-1897)  after  his  return  from  the  Continent, 
when  he  was  strong  enough  to  travel  constantly  and  address 
meetings  in  all  parts  of  the  country.  Never  had  invitations 
been  more  cordial  or  the  hearts  of  the  Lord's  people  more 
open  to  him.  Many  who  remembered  his  missionary  appeals 
in  the  days  of  their  childhood  had  grown  to  maturity,  and 
those  who  remained  of  his  first  friends  and  supporters  were, 
like  himself,  far  on  in  life's  pilgrimage.  No  voice  had  quite 
the  ring  for  them  of  his  voice ;  no  one  was  more  welcome 
in  conferences  or  among  the  churches  of  all  denominations 
that  had  known  him  so  long.  / 

How  they  loved  him  in  that  warm,  throbbing  centre 
of    Christian    activity      St.    George's    Cross    Tabernacle, 


56o         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Glasgow !      Of  his  many  visits,  the  Rev.  D.  J.  Findlay 
wrote : 

His  ministry  in  public  and  in  our  home  was  made  a  rich 
blessing,  and  the  atmosphere  of  the  presence  of  God  which 
always  surrounded  him  was  a  precious  benediction.  The  way 
in  which  he  was  ever  ready  to  give  place  to  other  speakers  and 
to  plead  and  pray  for  other  missions  was  specially  helpful.  One 
year  he  gave  half  the  time  set  apart  for  his  own  address  to  Mr. 
Fanstone  from  South  America,  who  launched  the  "  Help  for 
Brazil  "  effort  on  that  occasion  and  obtained  his  first  missionary 
on  the  spot. 

More  than  once  Mr.  Taylor  spoke  to  us  at  the  Table  of  the 
Lord,  and  these  were  memorable  occasions.  Many  remember 
with  what  overflowing  joy,  on  his  last  visit  (Sept.  1896),  he  led 
us  in  singing  the  chorus  of  which  he  was  very  full  at  the  time  : 

I  am  feasting  on  the  Living  Bread, 
I  am  drinking  at  the  Fountain  Head ; 

For  he  that  drinketh,  Jesus  said. 
Shall  never,  never  thirst  again. 

It  was  as  always  the  need  of  others  that  occupied  him 
most — the  desire  not  to  get  but  to  give,  to  bring  all  whom 
he  could  influence  into  the  rest  and  joy  of  abiding  fellowship 
with  Christ. 

■*  There  are  many  hearts,  ever5rwhere,  wanting  to  know  more 
of  the  fulness  of  Christ,"  he  wrote  to  Mr.  C.  G.  Moore  before  a 
longer  visit  to  Germany  in  the  spring  of  1897.  "  Ask  with  us  a 
fresh  anointing  for  this  service  of  love." 

Tired  with  the  winter's  work,  he  was  glad  to  accept 
Mr.  Berger's  invitation  to  the  south  of  France  for  a  quiet 
week  or  two  before  beginning  his  Continental  meetings.  It 
was  good  to  be  with  his  loved  friend  once  more,  for  whom 
the  sands  of  life  were  running  low,^  and  to  put  into  practice 
the  injunction  of  which  he  had  himself  written  a  few  months 
previously  : 

*  During  Mr.  Taylor's  next  visit  to  China,  Mr.  Berger  passed  swiftly 
and  painlessly  into  the  presence  of  the  Lord  he  loved,  on  the  9th  of  January 
1899.  Few  expressions  of  his  thoughtful  sympathy  in  the  work  had  been 
more  precious  to  Mr.  Taylor  than  his  gift  a  few  years  previously  of  ;^4000 
to  commence  a  Superannuation  Fund  for  the  members  of  the  Mission.  To 
this  Fund,  any  profits  from  the  sale  of  the  present  volume,  as  from  Hudson 
Taylor  in  Early  Years,  are  devoted. 


AGAIN  THE  FORWARD  MOVEMENT         561 

On  my  birthday  I  received  your  cheering  note  and  card,  for 
both  of  which  my  heart  thanks  you.  May  I  send  back  the 
same  message — "  Rest,  in  the  Lord  "  ? 

Bear  not  a  single  care  thyself. 

One  is  too  much  for  thee  ; 
The  work  is  mine,  and  mine  alone, 

Thy  work  is — rest  in  me. 

You  will  notice,  perhaps,  that  I  have  put  in  a  comma  after 
the  word  "  Rest,"  for  I  think  that  sometimes  we  run  on  in 
thought  to  the  end  and  forget  the  first  part  of  the  sentence. 
Rest,  as  if  nothing  more  were  said.  When  you  need  it,  rest  in 
body  ;  rest  always  in  spirit.  Rest  as  one  "  in  Him  "  alone  can, 
and  as  all  such  cafi  afford  to  ;  for  one  with  Him,  all  things  are 
^purs.  Rest  in  His  love,  power,  strength,  riches.  Ah,  what  arms 
to  enfold,  what  a  heart  to  lean  upon  I 

Limits  of  space  forbid  more  than  a  brief  mention  of  that 
important  visit  to  Germany,  in  which  Mr.  Taylor  was  joined 
by  Mr.  Sloan  for  the  months  of  March  and  April.  In 
addition  to  the  Barmen  Mission,  whose  workers  Mr.  Taylor 
had  recently  visited  in  China,  there  was  a  newer  movement 
at  Kid  which  he  was  glad  to  strengthen.  Started  as  a 
branch  of  the  C.I.M.  and  subsequently  developed  as  the 
Liebenzell  Mission,  this  work  was  destined  to  great  useful- 
ness, and  both  its  leaders  and  those  of  the  older  Barmen 
Mission  gave  Mr.  Taylor  a  cordial  welcome  and  many 
opportunities  for  speaking  about  China.^ 

*  Of  the  origin  of  the  Liebenzell  work  and  Mr.  Taylor's  visit  of  the 
previous  summer,  Pastor  Coerper  wrote  : 

"  When  in  1896  the  dear  Hudson  Taylor  came  to  see  me  at  Essen,  his 
clear  simple  testimonies  were  a  great  joy  and  inspiration  for  me  and  others. 
He  was  just  then  helping  to  form  a  German  branch  of  the  C.I.M.,  as  there 
was  much  interest  for  the  Mission  in  China  in  districts  not  attainable 
for  the  Barmen  AlUance  Mission.  He  mentioned  the  matter  to  me  several 
times,  asking  me  to  join  him  in  prayer  about  it.  How  I  longed  to  offer 
myself  for  this  work  !  But  I  did  not  feel  free  to  do  so,  fearing  that  I  might 
be  following  merely  the  desires  of  my  own  heart.  When  in  1 899,  however, 
the  call  came  to  me  quite  clearly  ...  to  take  charge  of  the  work,  the 
Lord  had  opened  the  way  and  had  made  me  wilhng  to  devote  my  hfe  to 
Him  for  this  service." 

The  Liebenzell  Mission,  still  (19 18)  under  the  care  of  Pastor  Coerper, 
has  twelve  central  stations  and  sixty  missionaries  in  the  province  of  Hunan 
(Associates  of  the  C.I.M.)  with  almost  a  thousand  church  members.  It 
has  also  nineteen  representatives  in  the  South  Sea  Islands.  All  that  such 
figures  mean  of  prayer,  labour,  and  self-sacrificing  gifts  at  home,  as  well  as 
devoted  service  abroad,  the  Lord  only  knows.     It  is  a  privilege  to  record 

20 


562         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

In  Berlin  their  meetings  were  chiefly  under  the  auspices 
of  the  Y.M.C.A.,  which  had  invited  them  for  a  Student 
Conference.  Generously  entertained  by  Count  Piickler,  they 
were  kept  busy  for  ten  days  in  the  capital,  some  of  the 
meetings  doing  much  to  deepen  friendly  relations.  For  the 
C.I.M.,  as  they  discovered,  was  none  too  favourably  regarded 
in  certain  quarters.  Its  interdenominational  basis  did  not 
commend  it  to  leaders  of  Societies  connected  with  the  State 
Church,  and  the  accounts  that  had  reached  them  of  its 
growth  and  faith  principles  were  hardly  credited.  It  was, 
thus,  in  a  somewhat  uncertain  frame  of  mind  that  prominent 
ministers  and  secretaries  gathered  in  the  drawing-room  of 
Mrs.  Palner  Da  vies  [nee  Baroness  von  Dungern)  to  meet  the 
visitors,  interested  specially  in  seeing  what  sort  of  person 
"  the  renowned  Hudson  Taylor  "  might  be. 

"  The  stranger  who  stood  in  our  midst,"  wrote  the  Baroness, 
"  was  not  of  an  imposing  appearance,  and  his  fair  curly  hair 
made  him  look  younger  than  he  really  was." 

The  time  was  largely  given,  we  learn  from  her  charming 
letter,  to  questions  through  interpretation,  and  her  anxiety 
as  hostess  is  frankly  confessed.  For  she  was  conscious,  as 
Mr.  Taylor  could  not  be,  of  the  critical  attitude  of  not  a  few 
present,  who  regarded  him  as  rather  a  free-lance  in  the 
sphere  of  missions. 

"  But  how  beautifully,"  she  exclaimed,  **  this  heavea];jj-, 
minded  man  was  able,  in  the  humility  of  his  heart,  to  conquer 
all  the  hidden  prejudice  against  him  and  his  work  I  " 

That  as  leader  of  the  C.I.M.  he  received  workers  from 
various  denominations  was  the  first  point  on  which  explana- 
tion was  desired. 

Only  recently  the  Mission  had  accepted  a  number  of  highly- 
educated  and  well-gifted  young  men  who  were  members  of  the 
State  Church.  How,  then,  were  they  able  to  work  together  with 
Methodists  and  Baptists,  etc.  ?  It  was  also  in  the  mind  of  the 
questioners  that  Mr.  Taylor  himself  had  been  connected  with 

here  that  nowhere  in  connection  with  the  C.I.M.  has  the  spirit  of  Christ 
been  more  manilbst  in  these  ways,  or  more  steadfastly  maintained,  than 
in  the  Barmen  and  the  Liebenzell  Missions. 


AGAIN  THE  FORWARD  MOVEMENT         563 

Baptists,  and  that  he  was  the  son  of  a  Methodist  preacher,  which, 
with  regard  to  his  orthodoxy,  made  the  strongly  Lutheran  clergy 
look  upon  him  with  suspicion. 

To  all  this  Mr.  Taylor  rephed  that,  in  our  chief  aims,  we  are 
all  one  in  Christ ;  also  that  China  is  large  enough,  and  the  workers 
can  be  distributed  over  the  various  provinces  so  that  each 
denomination  is  able  to  retain  its  particular  order  of  Church 
government.  "  Only  recently,"  he  stated,  "  we  have  been  glad 
to  welcome  an  English  Bishop  (one  of  our  own  number)  for 
Western  China,  so  that  our  missionaries  from  the  State  Church 
are  not  lacking  the  care  of  a  spiritual  guide  and  head.  The 
great  work  of  the  mission-field,  which  is  a  call  to  us  all,  over- 
rides theological  differences,  and  our  motto  remains,  '  All  one  in 
Christ.  .  .  .'  " 

Just  when  the  Director  of  the  Gossner  Mission  had  shaken 
his  silver-white  head  and  remarked  to  his  neighbour »in  an  under- 
tone, "  Such  a  mixture  of  Church  and  Sectarians  would  be 
impossible  with  us,"  Mr.  Taylor  continued  : 

"It  is  remarkable  how  the  Lord  Himself  has  chosen  His 
instruments,  so  that  even  the  most  insignificant,  in  His  hand, 
are  able  to  be  '  to  the  praise  of  His  glory.'  Surely  it  goes  as  in 
x:reation  :  there  are  strong  and  beautiful  oak-trees,  but  there  are 
also  little  flowers  of  the  meadow  ;  and  both  the  oak  and  the 
flower  have  been  placed  there  by  His  hand.  I  myself,  for 
instance,  am  not  specially  gifted,  and  am  shy  by  nature,  but  my 
gracious  and  merciful  God  and  Father  inclined  Himself  to  me,  • 
and"!  who  was  weak  in  faith  He  strengthened  while  I  was  still 
young.  He  taught  me  in  my  helplessness  to  rest  on  Him,  and 
to  pray  even  about  little  things  in  which  another  might  have 
felt  able  to  help  himself  " 

Instances  were  mentioned  from  his  early  experiences — 
such  as  the  giving  away  of  his  last  half-crown,  the  only  coin 
he  possessed  in  the  world,  when  he  was  living  alone  in 
lodgings  and  scarcely  knew  where  the  next  meal  was  to 
come  from.^  To  know  God  for  himself  as  the  Hearer  and 
Answerer  of  prayer  had  been  the  preparation,  in  view  of  his 
life-work,  that  he  felt  all-important. 

He  knew  the  desire  of  my  heart,  and  simply  trusting  Hke  a 
child,  I  brought  all  to  Him  in  prayer.    Thus  I  experienced,  quite 
early,  how  He  is  willing  to  help  and  strengthen  and  to  fulfil  the 
desire  of  those  who  fear  Him.     And  so  in  later  years,  when  I    , 
prayed  the  money  came. 

*  See  Hudson  Taylor  in  Early  Years,  pp.  132-138. 


X. 


564         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

He  then  told  how  the  passage,  "  Owe  no  man  anything 
cave  to  love  one  another,"  had  raised  the  question  in  his 
mind,  "  Are  we  entitled  to  make  exceptions  in  work  for 
the  Kingdom  of  God,  and  continuously  to  sigh  under  the 
oppression  of  debt  ?  "  His  own  conclusion  had  been  that 
the  words  meant  just  what  they  said  :  that  God  is  rich 
enough  to  supply  "  all  our  need  "  as  it  arises,  and  that  He 
Hkes  to  do  so  before  we  run  into  debt  much  better  than 
afterwards  ;  and  he  gave  instances  to  show  how,  trusting 
Him  to  fulfil  His  own  Word,  and  neither  spending  money 
before  it  was  received  nor  making  appeals  for  help,  the  seven 
hundred  missionaries  of  the  C.I.M.  were  actually  sustained.* 

"  Will  you  please  tell  us,"  was  then  asked,  "  whether  it  is 
true  that  after  you  had  moved  a  large  audience  by  putting  the 
need  of  missionary  work  to  their  hearts,  and  some  one  arose  to 
make  a  collection,  you  went  so  far  as  to  hinder  it  ?  " 

"  I  have  done  so  more  than  once,"  replied  Mr.  Taylor.  "  It 
is  not  our  way  to  take  collections,  because  we  desire  to  turn  aside 
no  gifts  from  other  Societies.  We  receive  free-will  offerings,  but 
without  putting  any  pressure  upon  people.  After  such  a  meeting 
they  can  easily  find  opportunity,  if  they  wish,  to  send  their  gifts 
— which  so  far  has  been  done  freely." 

"  We  have  heard,"  remarked  a  clergyman,  "  that  in  that  way 
some  quite  large  sums  are  sent  in  ;  but  we  aim  at  training  our 
congregations  to  systematic  giving.  ..." 

"  That  is  a  very  important  matter,"  answered  Mr.  Taylor. 
**  However,  one  is  led  so,  while  another  is  led  otherwise.  Each 
must  act  according  to  his  light.  As  I  said  before,  for  my  weak- 
ness' sake  the  Lord  has  acknowledged  my  way  of  working  and 
praying,  but  I  am  far  from  advising  any  one  to  copy  me.  You 
do  well  to  train  individuals,  to  train  the  whole  Church  to  system- 
atic giving.  .  .  ." 

^  In  times  of  financial  straitness  Mr.  Taylor  more  than  once  took 
occasion  to  remind  his  fellow- workers  of  this  principle.  "  The  position  of 
faith  is  incompatible  with  borrowing  or  going  into  debt,  or  forcing  our 
way  forward  when  the  Lord  closes  the  door  before  us,"  he  wrote  in  November 
1898.  "  If  we  propose  a  certain  extension  for  which  the  Lord  sees  the 
time  has  not  come,  or  which  is  not  in  accordance  with  His  will,  how  can 
He  more  clearly  guide  us  than  by  withholding  the  means  ?  It  would  be  a 
serious  mistake,  therefore,  to  refuse  to  listen  to  the  Lord's  '  No,'  and  by 
borrowing  or  going  into  debt  do  the  thing  to  which  He  had  objected  by 
withholding  the  needed  funds  or  facilities.  All  the  work  we  are  engaged 
in  is  His  rather  than  ours  ;  and  if  the  Master  can  afford  to  wait,  surely  the 
servant  can  also." 


AGAIN  THE  FORWARD  MOVEMENT  565 

Other  questions  were  still  raised,  until  I  at  length  inter- 
posed, saying  that  Mr.  Taylor  had  promised  to  be  present  at 
another  meeting  that  same  evening,  and  it  might  be  well  to  spare 
his  strength.  He  had  been  standing,  by  his  own  request,  while 
for  over  an  hour  we  had  been  sitting  comfortably  round  him. 
Just  then  a  sunbeam  touched  his  face,  so  full  of  joy  and  peace, 
bringing  a  brightness  as  from  above — and  I  could  only  think  of 
Stephen,  who  saw  heaven  opened  and  Jesus  at  the  right  hand  of 
God.  One  present  bowed  his  head,  covering  his  eyes  with  his 
hand,  and  I  heard  him  whisper  :  "We  must  all  take  shame 
before  this  man." 

"  Yes,"  the  white-headed  Professor  rephed  to  my  suggestion, 
"  you  are  quite  right ;  we  will  not  trouble  our  friend  any  further." 
And  rising  he  crossed  the  room,  put  his  arm  round  Mr.  Taylor's 
neck  and  kissed  him. 

Summer  days  in  England,  after  Mr.  Taylor's  return  from 
the  Continent,  found  him  more  than  ever  occupied  with 
meetings.  Not  that  he  was  equal  to  the  strain,  but  funds 
were  low  for  the  general  purposes  of  the  Mission,  and  he  was 
never  one  who  could  pray  without  working  to  the  limit  of 
his  powers.  That  Hmit  was  reached  before  the  Keswick 
Convention,  however.  Suffering  severely  from  neuralgia 
and  headache,  he  was  obliged  to  cancel  his  engagements 
and  accept  the  doctor's  verdict — complete  rest,  and  absence 
from  the  Mission  for  several  months  to  come. 

The  wonderful  air  of  Davos,  in  Switzerland,  proved  just 
the  tonic  he  was  needing,  and  there  in  the  early  autumn 
Mr.  Taylor  heard  of  an  answer  to  prayer  that  helped  to 
confirm  his  recovery.  He  had  been  much  exercised  about 
a  financial  difficulty  that  had  arisen,  due  in  part  to  the 
arrangements  for  special  support  in  the  new  branches  of 
the  Mission.  To  deal  wdth  it,  he  would  have  to  visit  America 
as  well  as  China  and  perhaps  Australia,  and  he  was  planning 
such  a  journey,  when  a  gift  of  no  less  than  ten  thousand 
pounds  for  the  general  fund  relieved  the  situation  and  sent 
him  rejoicing  on  his  homeward  way. 

And  there  was  more  to  follow.  The  generous  donor, 
Mr.  J.  T.  Morton,  had  been  in  faihng  health  for  some  time, 
but  it  was  a  shock  to  hear  of  his  death  within  a  few  days  of 
the  above-mentioned  gift,  and  almost  more  so  to  learn  that 
he  had  bequeathed  to  the  C.I.M.  a  fourth  part  of  his  residuary 


566         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

estate — a  share  which  could  not  be  less  and  might  be  a  good 
deal  more  than  a  hundred  thousand  pounds.  This  noble 
legacy  for  evangelistic  and  education  work  was  to  be  treated 
as  income  and  not  as  an  endowment. 

Overwhelmed  with  thankfulness  and  a  deep  sense  of 
responsibility,  Mr.  Taylor  could  not  but  connect  the  great 
trust  thus  committed  to  the  Mission  with  the  great  task  yet 
to  be  accomplished  in  China,  in  obedience  to  the  divine  com- 
mand. Ten  thousand  pounds  a  year  for  ten  years  or  longer 
— for  the  money  was  to  be  paid  in  instalments — what  might 
it  not  accompHsh  toward  this  end  ?  And  so  it  came  to  pass 
that  articles  under  the  title  of  *'  The  Forward  Movement  " 
began  to  appear  in  China's  Millions,  and  before  the  year 
was  out  (1897)  he  was  on  his  way  to  Shanghai,  full  of  longing 
to  see  the  inauguration  of  an  evangelistic  effort  that  might 
spread  throughout  all  the  provinces. 

From  certain  points  of  view  the  outlook  was  definite 
before  him,  though  just  as  indefinite  from  others.  He  saw 
with  perfect  clearness  the  dangers  to  which  so  large  an 
accession  of  means  exposed  the  Mission,  and  deeply  felt  the 
need  for  an  increase  of  spiritual  power.  Not  with  silver 
and  gold  could  precious  souls  be  won,  or  men  and  women 
fitted  to  be  messengers  of  the  cross  of  Christ.  A  fresh 
baptism  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  the  Spirit  of  Calvary  and  Pente- 
cost, was  the  supreme  need,  and  for  this  he  prayed  as  never 
before.  And  he  did  more  than  pray.  Knowing  how  much 
blessing  had  been  given  through  "  Winter  Missions  "  in 
India,  he  approached  the  leaders  of  the  Keswick  Convention 
about  similar  work  among  the  native  Christians  in  China, 
if  the  thought  approved  itself  to  the  missionary  body  in  that 
great  field.  For  it  was  not  the  C.I.M.  only  that  was  upon 
his  heart,  it  was  all  China.  He  longed  to  see  the  eighty 
thousand  communicants  of  all  Protestant  churches  quickened 
with  new  life  and  fired  with  zeal  for  the  salvation  of  their 
fellow-countrymen . 

"  We  missionaries  could  not  take  part  in  such  a  movement," 
he  wrote,  "  without  being  greatly  refreshed  and  strengthened  ; 
and  the  fresh  anointing  would  prepare  us  to  arrange  among 
ourselves  for  the  division  of  the  field,  and  for  assisting  and  guiding 


AGAIN  THE  FORWARD  MOVEMENT         567 

the  native  evangelists  whom  the  Holy  Spirit  might  thrust  for- 
ward, and  the  missionary  evangehsts  whom  we  expect  the  same 
Holy  Spirit  would  call  from  the  homelands." 

A  Forw^ard  Movement  in  spiritual  power  and  blessing 
was  the  object  most  of  all  upon  his  heart. 

"  We  are  not  immediately  appealing  for  new  workers/'  he 
continued  with  regard  to  the  Inland  Mission — "  our  first  need 
being  to  prepare  for  them  in  China,  and  the  most  important 
preparation  of  aU  a  spiritual  one/' 


CHAPTER  XXXIX 

EVEN    SO,    FATHER 

1898-1900      Aet.  66-68, 

And  except  life  itself  be  cast  in  the  scale, 
No  life  can  be  won,  no  cause  prevail. 

More  and  more  it  was  to  China's  Christians,  filled  with 
the  Spirit  of  Christ,  that  Mr.  Taylor  looked  for  the  evangeUsa- 
tion  of  China.  In  his  second  article  on  the  Forward  Move- 
ment, written  from  Shanghai  (March  1898),  he  asked  much 
prayer  that  the  Keswick  deputation,  to  whom  a  cordial 
welcome  had  been  sent  by  Dr.  Muirhead  in  the  name  of 
the  missionary  body,  might  be  enabled  to  come  out  without 
delay,  and  that 

...  in  the  meantime  the  Spirit  of  God  may  work  mightily, 
preparing  the  heathen  for  the  Gospel  and  the  converts  for  fuller 
blessing,  Hkewise  raising  up  from  among  them  evangelists, 
called,  qualified,  and  constrained  to  preach  the  Gospel,  as  well  as 
live  out  the  Christ-life. 

"  There  are  eighty  thousand  Protestant  communicants  in 
China,"  he  had  written  in  his  earlier  paper,  "  and  possibly  as 
many  more  candidates  and  probationers.  Besides  these  there 
are  a  still  larger  number  who  are  convinced  of  the  truth  of 
Christianity,  though  they  have  not  yet  grace  and  courage  to 
confess  Christ.  If  there  were  a  widespread  outpouring  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  all  these  might  speedily  be  swept  into  the  fold,  and 
the  effect  in  China  of  a  quarter  of  a  million  earnest,  active,  holy- 
living  Christians  would  be  very  great."  ^ 

*  Mr.  Taylor's  thought,  as  set  forth  in  these  papers,  was  that  centres 
should  be  arranged  for,  in  charge  of  experienced  missionaries,  to  which 
the  new  workers  (foreign)  should  go  on  arrival  for  study  of  the  language 
and  training  in  evangelistic  method,  and  to  which  they  could  return  from 

568 


EVEN  SO,  FATHER  569 

But  though  the  work  was  theirs,  and  without  them  could 
never  be  carried  to  completion,  Mr.  Taylor  equally  felt 
the  need  for  Spirit-filled  missionaries  and  many  more  of 
them,  especially  evangelists.  Never  before  had  he  seen 
his  way  so  clearly  as  far  as  money  was  concerned,  but  that 
very  fact  only  made  a  revival  of  spiritual  blessing  the 
more  urgent.  Ten  or  twelve  thousand  pounds  annually, 
in  addition  to  current  income,  to  be  spent  as  it  was  received 
and  to  be  spent  in  China,  was  a  serious  responsibiUty.  It 
meant  not  only  great  possible  development,  but  great 
possible  difficulty  at  the  end  of  the  period  when,  the  last 
instalment  having  been  paid,  the  new  undertakings  would 
have  to  be  carried  on.  Mr.  Taylor  had  no  doubt  whatever 
but  that  the  whole  thing — the  form  of  the  bequest  as  well 
as  the  gift  itself — was  of  God,  and  had  no  hesitation  in 
accepting  it ;  but  he  saw  that  to  go  forward  and  enlarge 
the  work  without  an  increase  of  faith,  prayer,  and  spiritual 
power,  which  alone  could  make  it  fraitful  and  sustain  it, 
would  be  to  court  disaster. 

"  There  probably  never  was  a  time  when  we  needed  divine 
guidance  more  than  at  present,"  he  had  written  to  Mr.  Stevenson 
before  leaving  England.  "  We  sorely  need  fresh  life  infusing 
into  every  part  of  our  work,  without  which  this  large  legacy 

time  to  time  for  rest  and  refreshment  after  their  itinerations.  Chinese 
evangelists  should  also  have  training  and  Bible  study  in  such  centres. 

"  A  special  Itinerant  Missionary  Evangelistic  Band  would  then  be 
required,"  he  wrote,  "  willing  to  consecrate  five  years  of  their  lives  to 
itinerant  work,  without  thought  of  marriage  or  of  settUng  down  till  their 
special  work  is  accomplished.  The  work  would  be  arduous,  involving 
much  self-denial,  but  it  would  bring  with  it  much  blessing  and  great 
spiritual  joy,  as  the  command,  '  Preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature,'  was 
being  obeyed  :  in  keeping  ot  His  commandments  there  is  great  reward  (see 
Psalm  xix.  ii). 

"  The  workers,  when  ready,  would  go  out  two  and  two,  i.e.  two  mis- 
sionaries and  two  native  helpers,  to  previously  arranged  districts,  to  sell 
Scriptures  and  Gospel  tracts,  and  to  preach  the  Glad  Tidings.  Living 
together  in  the  same  inns,  for  companionship  and  fellowship,  they  would 
often  separate  during  the  day,  one  missionary  and  native  brother  going 
in  one  direction,  and  the  other  two  in  another,  and  meeting  again  at  night, 
to  commend  to  God  the  work  of  the  day,  as  before  setting  out  they  had 
unitedly  sought  His  blessing.  Two-thirds  to  three-quarters  of  their  time 
being  thus  occupied,  the  remainder  would  afford  opportunity  for  bodily 
and  spiritual  rest  and  refreshment,  for  continuing  the  Chinese  studies  of 
the  missionaries,  and  the  systematic  Bible  studies  of  the  native  helpers. 
As  the  work  progresses  the  number  of  these  centres  would  need  increasing." 


570         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

which  has  been  left  us  may  prove  the  greatest  misfortune  we 
have  had  for  a  long  time." 

It  was  with  this  double  thought  in  view  therefore — a 
Forward  Movement,  based  upon  real  accessions  of  spiritual 
blessing — that  Mr.  Taylor  came  out  for  his  tenth  visit  to 
China,  accompanied  by  Mrs.  Taylor,  Miss  Soltau  of  the 
Women's  Department  in  London,  and  Miss  Bessie  Hanbury 
— a  little  company  who  knew  the  way  to  the  Throne.  How 
serious  was  the  call  to  prayer  they  could  not  but  reaUse 
from  another  consideration  very  present  to  their  minds. 

"  If  the  Spirit  of  God  work  mightily,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  on 
the  journey,  "  we  may  be  quite  sure  that  the  spirit  of  evil  will 
also  be  active.  When  the  appeal  for  a  thousand  new  workers 
went  forth  from  the  Missionary  Conference  of  1890,  the  enemy 
at  once  began  a  counter-movement,  and  riots  and  massacres  have 
from  time  to  time  followed  as  never  before." 

Not  that  this  was  any  argument  for  holding  back.  It 
simply  meant  that  whatever  was  undertaken  must  be  begun, 
as  it  could  alone  be  continued,  in  God. 

One  year  and  nine  months  now  lay  before  Mr.  Taylor 
of  this  last  period  of  his  active  service  in  China  (Jan.  1898 
to  Sept.  1899).  He  as  httle  as  those  about  him  realised  it 
to  be  the  last,  and  yet  in  tracing  its  experiences  one  cannot 
but  be  conscious  of  the  finishing  touches  God  was  putting 
to  the  life  labours  of  His  servant.  He  was  present  at  all 
the  Council  Meetings  of  this  period,  for  example,  with  one 
exception.  Seven  times  the  leaders  of  the  Mission  gathered 
to  meet  him,  and  he  was  enabled  to  come  into  touch,  through 
them,  with  a  large  part  of  the  work.  Many  questions  of 
difficulty  were  settled,  and  some  problems  of  long  standing 
happily  solved.  Then  the  important  question  of  the 
Forward  Movement  was  dealt  with  in  ways  that  told  of 
God*s  own  working. 

"  Before  leaving  home,"  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  in  this  connection, 
"  we  were  greatly  cheered  by  the  promise  of  Ps.  xxxii.  8,  '  I  will 
instruct  thee  and  teach  thee  in  the  way  which  thou  shalt  go.' 
We  felt  we  were  going  forward  in  this  matter  not  knowing  when, 
how.  or  where  God  would  have  the  new  work  begun,  but  assured 


EVEN  SO,  FATHER  571 

that,  in  the  way,  needed  light  and  leading  would  be  given  ;   and 
we  have  not  been  disappointed." 

Quite  apart  from  previous  planning,  experienced  workers 
had  met  in  Shanghai  from  England,  America,  the  Continent 
of  Europe,  and  the  interior  of  China,  and  after  the  January 
and  April  Council  Meetings  all  was  arranged  for  a  beginning 
to  be  made  in  the  accessible  province  of  Kiang-si,  with  its 
ninety-nine  governing  cities,  capitals  of  counties,  in  very 
few  of  which  the  Gospel  was  as  yet  being  preached. 

The  tide  of  spiritual  blessing,  too,  was  rising,  even  before 
the  arrival  of  the  Keswick  deputation.  He  who  deUghts 
to  use  "  the  weak  things  "  had  found  a  cleansed  and  empty 
vessel  which  He  was  pleased  to  fill  to  overflowing  with  His 
own  Spirit. 

"  I  go  forth  in  conscious  weakness,"  Miss  Soltau  had  v/ritten 
of  her  visit  to  China,  "  feeling  my  need  of  His  abundant  Ufe  for 
the  untried  way." 

Drawing  on  the  promised  fulness,  she  had  begun  the 
journeys  which  were  to  occupy  thirteen  consecutive  months, 
taking  her  over  six  thousand  miles  in  all,  to  forty-four 
mission-stations,  in  every  one  of  which  she  was  made  a 
blessing.  Some  years  before,  from  her  responsible  post  in 
London,  she  had  written  to  a  near  relative  : 

The  work  is  alwaj^s  increasing ;  and  were  it  not  for  the  con- 
sciousness of  Christ  as  my  life,  hour  by  hour,  I  could  not  go  on. 
But  He  is  teaching  me  glorious  lessons  of  His  sufficiency,  and 
each  day  I  am  carried  onward  with  no  feeling  of  strain  or  fear  of 
collapse. 

And  so  it  was  in  China.  Fatiguing  journeys,  lack  of 
quiet  and  home-comforts,  extremes  of  winter  cold  and 
summer  heat,  and  at  each  station  the  demands  of  heart- 
to-heart  interviews  with  beloved  workers,  many  of  whom 
were  like  her  own  children,  as  well  as  of  frequent  meetings 
with  the  missionaries  or  Chinese  Christians  who  flocked 
around  her — all  were  met  in  the  same  spirit  of  dependence 
upon  the  resources  of  the  Lord  Himself.  Thus  there  was 
no  breakdown,  no  hindrance  to  carrying  out  a  full  pro- 
gramme ;    and  from  station  after  station  Mr.  Taylor  had 


572         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

the  joy  of  receiving  just  the  tidings  he  longed  for.  From 
the  young  men's  training  home  at  An-king  he  heard  through 
Mr.  Stevenson  of  Miss  Soltau's  visit  as  ''  a  truly  remarkable 
season." 

"  The  Holy  Spirit  was  poured  out  upon  all  present,"  Mr. 
Taylor  wrote,  "  and  every  one  of  the  missionaries  and  students 
received  extraordinary  spiritual  help.  Such  a  Pentecostal 
season  had  never  been  experienced  there  before.  This,  surely, 
is  what  we  need,  for  ourselves  and  for  our  native  brethren." 

With  regard  to  his  own  usefulness,  it  was  doubtless  a 
trial  to  Mr.  Taylor  that  he  was  prevented  through  ill-health 
from  joining  in  these  meetings.  For  several  months  after 
his  arrival  he  was  confined  more  or  less  to  his  room,  but 
amid  outward  Hmitations  he  was  learning  much  of  the 
divine  alchemy  that  for  brass  can  bring  gold  and  for  iron 
silver,  teaching  in  so  many  ways  the  lesson  that  His  strength 
is  "  made  perfect  in  weakness."  To  Dr.  A.  T.  Pierson,  whom 
he  had  visited  in  America,  and  who  had  since  been  laid 
aside  by  serious  illness,  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  in  April : 

Ah,  how  much  pains  the  Lord  takes  to  empty  us  and  to  show 
us  He  can  do  without  us  !  My  experience  has  not  been  yours, 
of  suffering  pain  for  any  long  periods,  but  of  great  prostration 
and  weakness,  so  that  I  have  had  to  decline  all  public  work  since 
reaching  China.  In  a  quiet  way  I  have  been  able  to  think  and 
pray  over  many  matters,  and  to  confer  with  many  of  our  workers. 
Some  important  arrangements  have  been  made,  which  will,  I 
beheve,  bear  fruit  in  the  future,  and  I  trust  some  lessons  have 
been  learned.  May  we  both  be  better  fitted  for  any  service  the 
Lord  may  call  us  to,  or  for  His  own  blessed  appearing,  which 
surely  is  very  near  ! 

On  our  way  out  my  wife  came  across  a  httle  verse  in  Hymns 
of  Tersteegen  and  Others  which  we  have  often  thought  of  since : 

He  told  me  of  a  river  bright 

Which  flows  from  Him  to  me, 
That  I  might  be,  for  His  dehght, 

A  fair  and  fruitful  tree. 

It  is  very  simple :  but  has  He  not  planted  us  by  the  river  of 
Hving  water  that  we  may  be  for  His  delight,  fair  and  fruitful  to 
His  people  ?  .  .  . 

Sometimes  God  can  carry  on  His  work  better  without  us 
than  with  us.  .      .  Then,  again,  the  best  work  is  not  always  done 


EVEN  SO,  FATHER  573 

with  large  numbers.  Our  Lord  fed  the  five  thousand  on  the 
mountain-side,  and  eternity  may  show  results  we  shall  not  know 
of  till  that  day,  but  the  record  does  not  tell  of  much  immediate 
outcome.  On  the  other  hand,  He  fed  one  woman  at  the  well  of 
Samaria,  and  immediately,  through  her,  brought  multitudes  to 
His  feet.  So,  do  you  not  think,  the  Lord  may  see  fit  to  call  us 
away  from  the  thousands,  and  do  perhaps  His  best  work  through 
us  to  tens  or  even  units,  whom  we  may  meet  by  the  way  ? 

May  He  lead  you,  dear  Brother,  and  continue  to  bless  you 
more  and  more.     I  am  increasingly  thankful  that  "  My  Father  ' 
is  the  Husbandman."     There  are  "  under-shepherds  "  ;    but  no 
prentice  hand  trains  the  branches  of  the  True  Vine,  nor  cleanses 
nor  prunes  them.  ^ 

Dr.  Pierson  had  not  been  able  to  join  the  Keswick 
deputation  to  China,  but  the  Rev.  Charles  Inwood  came, 
fresh  from  a  wonderful  time  of  blessing  on  the  Continent. 
Accustomed  to  speaking  through  interpretation  and  to 
leading  his  hearers  step  by  step  from  the  elements  of  truth 
into  fuller  and  deeper  experiences,  he  was  just  the  teacher 
needed,  and  from  autumn  to  early  summer  he  and  Mrs. 
Inwood  laboured  without  intermission  as  Miss  Soltau  was 
doing,  their  united  service  covering  almost  the  entire  period 
of  Mr.  Taylor's  visit.  One  year  and  five  months  altogether 
these  special  meetings  continued,  Mr.  Inwood  in  particular 
finding  a  wide  sphere  outside  the  Inland  Mission.  Travelling 
over  ten  thousand  miles — north  and  south  and  far  up  the 
Yangtze  to  Chung-king — he  had  "  precious  fellowship  with 
every  missionary  society  in  China/'  and  found  that  year 
stand  out,  in  spite  of  toil  and  danger,  as  the  brightest  he 
had  ever  spent  in  the  Master's  service. 

Mr.  Taylor  meanw^hile  had  wonderfully  gained  in  strength, 
and  even  before  Mr.  Inwood's  arrival  had  been  able  to  take 
several  journeys,  and  by  meetings  and  correspondence  to 
forward  the  same  important  end.  While  detained  in 
Shanghai  he  had  met  over  two  hundred  members  of  the 
Mission,  and  subsequently  in  visits  to  Chefoo  and  the  new 
hill-station  at  Ku-ling  had  had  opportunity  for  ministry 
to  a  large  circle.  But  his  letters  went  further  still,  carrying 
much  of  the  blessing  that  sustained  him  and  which  he 
thankfully  realised  to  be  accessible  to  all. 


574         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

**  Go  forward  in  the  strength  of  the  Lord,  and  in  the  sufficiency 
that  comes  from  Him  alone,"  he  wi-ote  to  one  who  needed  en- 
couragement, "  and  thank  Him  for  your  conscious  insufficiency, 
for  when  you  are  weak,  then  He  can  be  strong  in  you. 

"  Do  not  be  afraid  to  let  His  light  shine  through  you  ;  do  not 
be  afraid  to  let  even  a  trickling  overflow,  overflow.  Do  not  let 
any  self-consciousness  prevent  your  being  at  God's  disposal  for 
any  message  He  may  want  you  to  give  at  any  time,  to  any  one. 
Never  mind  what  people  think  about  you  ;  perhaps  they  will 
only  think  about  Him,  not  about  you  at  all,  and  thank  Him  for 
His  ministry,  though  it  may  come  through  you.  If  at  any  time 
you  are  conscious  of  failure  or  sin,  or  even  if  you  stand  in  doubt 
about  an5rthing,  confess  it  at  once  to  Him,  and  accept  His  promise 
of  immediate  cleansing  and  restoration.  The  moment  you 
switch  on  electricity,  the  light  shines  or  the  power  is  manifested, 
just  as  before  it  was  switched  off, — though  in  spiritual  things  the 
power  of  God  may  be  manifested  differently  at  one  time  from 
another.  I  do  pray  for  you.  My  very  heart  goes  out  in  prayer 
on  your  behalf,  and  I  never  was  more  thankful  to  God  for  you 
than  I  am  now."  ^ 

No  pains  seemed  too  great  if  he  could  lead  a  soul  into 
fuller  blessing,  and  not  least,  his  own  children. 

"  With  regard  to  many  truths,  there  are  two  aspects  to  be 
borne  in  mind,"  he  wrote  to  his  daughter  a  few  weeks  later, 
"  the  divine  and  the  human.  This  is  so  of  the  question  of  being 
filled  with  the  Spirit.  The  command  '  be  filled  '  etc.,  points  us 
to  the  human  side.  What  do  we  mean  when  we  say  that  a  loving 
mother  is  '  full  of  her  baby  '  ?  Some  leave  their  babies  to  the 
nurse  and  do  httle  or  nothing  for  them  themselves,  going  occasion- 
ally to  amuse  themselves  with  their  children,  but  finding  their 
principal  enjoyments  apart  from  them  altogether.  But  the 
mother  full  of  her  baby  is  very  different.  Her  heart,  her  time, 
her  life  are  given  to  the  child.  Very  much  in  the  same  way,  the 
'  mind  of  the  Spirit '  spoken  of  in  Romans  viii.  6  (R.V.)  means 
letting  the  Holy  Spirit  fill  us  and  have  us. 

"  Now  the  heart  can  no  more  be  filled  with  two  things  at  the 
same  time  than  a  tumbler  can  be  filled  with  both  air  and  water 
at  the  same  time.  If  you  want  a  tumbler  full  of  water  to  be 
filled  with  air,  it  has  first  to  be  emptied  of  the  water.  This  shows 
us  why  prayer  to  be  filled  wdth  the  Spirit  is  often  gradually 
answered.  We  have  to  be  shown  our  sins,  our  faults,  our  pre- 
possessions, and  to  be  delivered  from  them.     Faith  is  the  channel 

»  Written  from  Ku-ling,  Sept.  2,  1898. 


EVEN  SO,  FATHER  575 

by  which  all  grace  and  blessing  are  received  ;  and  that  which 
is  accepted  by  faith,  God  bestows  in  fact.  Being  filled  does  not 
always  lead  to  exalted  feeling  or  uniform  manifestation,  but  God 
always  keeps  His  word.  We  have  to  look  to  His  promises  or 
rest  in  them,  expecting  their  literal  fulfilment.  Some  put  asking 
in  the  place  of  accepting ;  some  wish  it  were  so,  instead  of 
beheving  that  it  is  so.  We  have  never  to  wait  for  God's  giving, 
for  God  has  already  '  blessed  us  with  all  spiritual  blessings  in 
heavenly  things  in  Christ.'  We  may  reverently  say,  He  has 
nothing  more  to  give  ;  for  He  has  given  His  all.  Yet,  just  as 
the  room  is  full  of  air,  but  none  can  get  into  the  tumbler  save  as 
far  as  the  water  is  emptied  out,  so  we  may  be  unable  to  receive 
all  He  has  given,  if  the  self-life  is  filling  to  some  extent  our  hearts 
and  hves." 

Gradually,  as  1898  wore  on,  the  outlook  with  regard 
to  social  and  political  conditions  became  increasingly  dis- 
quieting. While  souls  were  being  saved  in  larger  numbers 
than  ever  before  and  spiritual  blessing  given,  the  political 
unrest  which  had  been  growing  since  the  Japanese  war, 
and  the  bitterness  of  feehng  due  to  the  aggressions  of  foreign 
powers  were  hastening  a  crisis  the  nature  of  which  was  but 
too  evident.  The  countermove  Mr.  Taylor  had  anticipated 
as  likely  to  hinder  widespread  evangelistic  effort  was  taking 
serious  form.  Too  hasty  attempts  on  the  part  of  the  young 
Emperor  to  introduce  reforms  had  thrown  the  country 
into  a  ferment ;  open  discussion  in  the  European  press  of 
the  "  partition  of  China  "  was  goading  the  authorities  to 
desperation  ;  and  the  Imperial  Government  had  so  lost 
influence  with  the  people  that,  as  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  in  July, 
there  seemed  "  little  hope  of  averting  a  complete  collapse." 
A  powerful  rebelHon  had  broken  out  in  Western  China 
in  the  spring  of  the  year,  which  was  still  unsubdued ;  local 
uprisings  and  riots  were  of  frequent  occurrence  ;  and  finally 
the  Dowager  Empress,  at  the  head  of  the  reactionary 
party,  had  resumed  the  reins  of  government,  visiting  with 
dire  retribution  the  over-zealous  reformers,  and  consigning 
the  hapless  Emperor  to  virtual  imprisonment  in  "  the  inner 
apartments."  This  had  taken  place  in  September,  and 
now  in  quick  succession  drastic  measures  were  being  taken 
to  reverse  the  poHcy  of  recent  years  and  to  curtail  the 


576         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

pretensions  of  foreigners.  Needless  to  say,  this  sudden 
change  of  front  on  the  part  of  the  Government  encouraged 
anti-foreign  feehng  throughout  the  country ;  and  as  almost 
the  only  Europeans  in  the  interior  were  missionaries,  it 
was  against  them  particularly  that  hostilities  were  directed. 
The  situation  was  fraught  with  peril,  and  could  not  but 
give  rise  to  serious  apprehensions. 

"  Leave  God  out  of  count,"  Mr.  Frost  had  written  for  the 
November  Chinas  Millions,  "  and  fear  might  well  possess  and 
overwhelm  us.  Bring  God  into  account  and  there  is  perfect 
peace  for  us  at  home  and  for  our  beloved  missionaries  in  China. 
.  .  .  Satan  is  mighty,  but  God  is  almighty.  Not  one  thing  can 
man  do  that  God  does  not  allow  to  be  done,  and  one  outstretching 
of  His  glorious  arm  can  subdue  every  enemy.  .  .  .  For  thirty- 
two  years  of  the  Mission's  history  He  has  preserved  life  in  the 
face  of  threatened  dangers,  so  that  up  to  the  present  time,  in 
spite  of  robbers,  bandits,  and  rioters,  not  one  person  has  been 
called  on  such  accounts  to  pass  through  death.  And  further, 
suppose  He  should  allow  this  long  record  of  divine  interposition 
to  be  broken,  would  He  be  less  strong  to  keep  in  the  hour  of 
death  than  He  has  been  in  the  days  of  Ufe  ?  We  do  not  speak 
lightly ;  but  thinking  of  God  and  of  His  mighty  acts,  and  with 
the  past  in  view,  though  faced  in  thought  mth  martyr  fires  and 
rack  and  sword,  we  know  that  God  can  keep  His  own,  and  we 
beUeve  that  He  would  do  so,  now,  as  in  the  days  of  old." 

That  for  thirty-two  years  God  had  so  watched  over 
the  Mission  that  no  Ufe  had  ever  been  lost  through  violence 
or  accident  or  in  travelling  was  a  very  real  comfort  to  Mr. 
Taylor.  Frequently  in  his  letters  of  this  troubled  year 
he  calls  attention  to  the  fact,  whi<;h  was  indeed  a  remark- 
able one,  considering  the  pioneering  work  accompHshed 
in  all  the  inland  provinces,  and  that  there  was  scarcely  a 
moment  of  the  day  or  night  in  which  journeys  were  not  being 
taken,  either  by  land  or  water.  Shipwrecks  had  occurred 
once  and  again  at  sea,  and  more  often  on  the  rapids  of 
the  Yangtze ;  but  though  loss  of  property  had  been  per- 
mitted, as  also  in  many  a  riot,  hfe  and  Umb  had  been  pro- 
tected in  every  case,  often  in  most  wonderful  ways.  Indeed, 
there  had  grown  up  in  Mr.  Taylor's  mind  a  restful  confidence 
in  God  that  He  would  thus  protect  His  servants  in  the 


EVEN  SO,  FATHER  577 

Mission,  especially  defenceless  women,  working  alone  in 
their  stations,  at  a  distance  often  from  the  nearest 
missionaries.  He  rejoiced  in  their  faith  and  devotion  no 
less  than  in  the  blessing  that  rested  on  their  labours.  At 
this  very  time  (1898-1899)  despite  persecution  and  threatened 
danger,  two  hundred  and  fifty  converts  were  received  into 
church  membership  in  the  ladies'  stations  on  the  Kwang-sin 
River,  while  a  thousand  inquirers  were  under  instruction 
as  candidates  for  baptism.  Such  a  result  from  the  labours 
of  a  few  young  women  in  a  few  brief  years,  with  quite  a 
small,  though  growing,  band  of  native  leaders,  was  indeed 
cause  for  thankfulness.^ 

To  a  woman  also  had  been  given  success  in  the  difficult 
and  dangerous  task  of  effecting  a  settled  residence  in  Hu-nan, 
so  long  the  most  anti-foreign  province  in  China.  With  a 
single  native  helper  and  a  Chinese  woman-companion  she 
had  walked  quietly  over  the  border  from  Kiang-si,  under 
the  very  eyes  of  the  soldiery  sent  to  guard  the  frontier, 
but  who  never  dreamed  of  connecting  those  dusty  wayfarers 
with  the  dreaded  foreigner  they  were  to  intercept !  During 
his  recent  visit  to  England  Mr.  Taylor  had  been  rejoiced 
by  a  letter  (1896)  from  this  brave  Norwegian  worker  saying 
that  the  Lord  Jesus  had  taken  up  His  abode  in  the  hearts 
of  some  of  the  people  over  the  border,  and  that  if  she  should 
be  put  out,  He  could  not — for  hearts  that  have  once  received 
Him  are  not  likely  to  give  Him  up.  But  a  new  day  had 
dawned  for  Hu-nan.  Miss  Jacobsen  was  not  put  out. 
On  the  contrary,  the  Rev.  George  Hunter,  Dr.  Keller  and 
others  were  so  prospered  in  similar  efforts  that  this  very 
period  of  uneasiness  and  trouble  witnessed  the  opening  of 
centre  after  centre,  until  the  C.I.M.  alone  h.d,d.  four  settled 
stations  in  the  province.  From  Cha-ling-chow,  Dr.  Keller 
wrote  at  the  close  of  1898  : 

We  have  from  twenty  to  forty  quiet,  attentive  hearers  at  our 
morning  services.     Yesterday,  Sunday,  we  held  a  longer  meeting, 

1  "  They  are  weak  enough  for  God  to  use,"  Mr.  Taylor  had  written  of 
similar  workers  in  Shan-si,  "  and  they  believe  in  being  filled  with  the  Holy 
Ghost.  They  seek  a  blessing  with  fasting  and  prayer,  and  they  do  not  seek 
in  vain.    The  people  feel  that  there  is  power  in  connection  with  their  work." 

2  P 


578         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

about  sixty  being  present.  We  have  quite  a  few  callers,  and  they 
all  drink  tea  with  us  without  hesitation.  Is  not  this  rather 
unusual  ?  Everything  seems  peaceful  and  quiet.  Oh,  let  us 
praise  Him  !  Reports  are  brought  to  us  of  some  harsh  talk  in  a 
large  students'  hall  near  here — threats  to  kill  our  landlord  and 
loot  his  premises,  and  afterwards  make  an  assault  on  us.  We  are 
in  God's  hands,  and  He  is  almighty.  .  .  .  Pray  for  us. 

By  this  time  Mr.  Taylor  was  on  his  way  up  the  Yangtze 
to  the  far  west  of  China.  Despite  the  rebelhon  in  Szechwan, 
which  was  still  in  progress,  and  the  unquiet  state  of  the 
country  everywhere,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Inwood  were  to  attend 
the  conference  of  West  China  missionaries  to  be  held  at 
Chung-king  in  January  (1899)  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor 
had  decided  to  accompany  them.  The  journey,  first  by 
steamer  and  then  by  native  boat  hundreds  of  miles  up  the 
Yangtze,  was  no  little  undertaking  in  mid-winter,  especially 
to  those  unaccustomed  to  the  rapids  ;  but  much  help  was 
found  on  the  way  at  the  various  homes  and  business  centres 
of  the  Mission,  at  which  every  possible  arrangement  was 
made  for  the  comfort  of  the  travellers.  Very  different 
had  been  Mr.  Taylor's  earlier  experiences  before  the  Mission 
had  any  business  organisation,  when  in  the  midst  of  pressing 
work  and  responsibilities  he  had  to  look  after  such  affairs 
himself,  or  risk  their  miscarrying.  Of  one  journey,  happily 
not  a  long  one,  he  retained  a  feeling  recollection — when  the 
willing  but  unbusinesslike  fellow-worker  to  whom  he  had 
entrusted  his  belongings  (being  so  busy  himself  that  he 
hardly  knew  how  to  get  off)  arrived  with  his  coolie  at  the 
landing-stage  just  as  the  vessel  was  steaming  away.  Mr. 
Taylor,  after  waving  farewell  to  his  baggage,  had  to  sleep 
on  bare  boards  that  night — making  the  best,  as  he  said,  of 
a  shoe  and  an  umbrella  for  a  pillow  and  the  cold  wintry 
air  for  a  coverlet.  Now,  things  were  on  a  very  different 
footing,  and  no  one  appreciated  the  change,  or  the  sacrifice 
at  which  able  and  devoted  missionaries  were  facilitating 
the  work  of  others,  more  than  the  leader  of  the  Mission  who 
had  himself  known  so  much  of  "  serving  tables." 

But  not  all  the  loving  care  of  fellow-workers  by  the 
way  could  keep  from  him  the  heavy  tidings  received  at 


EVEN  SO,  FATHER  579 

Hankow  of  the  first  martyrdom  in  the  ranks  of  the  C.I.M. 
Away  in  the  distant  province  of  Kwei-chow  the  tragedy 
had  occurred,  when  WiUiam  S.  Fleming,  from  AustraUa, 
had  been  murdered  with  his  friend  and  helper,  P'an,  a 
convert  from  the  Black  Miao  tribe  they  were  seeking  to 
evangelise.  In  trying  to  protect  the  latter,  Mr.  Fleming's 
own  life  had  been  sacrificed ;  and  while  thanking  God 
for  the  spirit  in  which  he  had  met  his  brief  but  terrible 
end,  Mr.  Taylor  reahsed  with  a  straitened  heart  some- 
thing of  what  it  meant  that  such  an  event  should  have 
happened. 

'*  How  sad  the  tidings  !  "  he  ^vrote  to  Mr.  Stevenson  on  the 
22nd  of  November  :  "  blessed  for  the  martyrs  but  sad  for  us, 
for  China,  for  their  friends.  And  not  only  sad,  but  ominous  ! 
It  seems  to  show  that  God  is  about  to  test  us  with  a  new  kind 
of  trial :  surely  we  need  to  gird  on  afresh  '  the  whole  armour  of 
God.'  Doubtless  it  means  fuller  blessing,  but  through  deeper 
suffering.  May  we  all  lean  hard  on  the  Strong  for  strength  .  .  . 
and  in  some  way  or  other  the  work  be  deepened  and  extended, 
not  hindered,  by  these  trials." 

'*  Deepened  and  extended,  not  hindered  " — how  often 
in  the  months  that  followed  the  thought  must  have  been 
turned  into  prayer  as  his  own  way  was  increasingly  hedged 
about  with  difficulty.  The  conference  at  Chung-king 
proved  a  time  of  blessing.  Attended  by  seventy  to  eighty 
missionaries  of  various  societies  it  gave  opportunity  for 
Mr.  Inwood's  helpful  ministry,  and  brought  Mr.  Taylor 
into  touch  with  Bishop  Cassels,  Dr.  Parry,  and  other  leaders 
in  the  C.I.M.  work.  But  the  visits  he  and  Mrs.  Taylor 
hoped  to  pay  to  many  of  the  western  stations  had  to  be 
abandoned.  In  the  first  place,  a  fresh  outbreak  of  the 
Yii  Man-tze  rebellion  made  travelhng  extremely  dangerous  ; 
and  further,  a  serious  illness  brought  Mr.  Taylor  so  low 
that  his  fife  was  almost  despaired  of.  Nursing  him  night 
and  day,  Mrs.  Taylor  at  last  saw  that  all  that  could  be  done 
was  unavailing.  It  seemed  as  if,  at  any  moment,  his  heart 
might  fail.  Realising  what  it  would  mean  to  the  Mission 
if  he  were  taken  suddenly,  with  no  one  in  view  to  fill  his 
place,  she  had  been  holding  on  to  God  in  prayer  and  faith 


58o         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

for  his  recovery.  Now,  in  the  silent  room,  she  could  only 
kneel  and  cry  : 

"  Lord,  we  can  do  nothing !  Do  what  Thou  wilt. 
Undertake  for  us/' 

When  he  next  spoke,  knowing  nothing  of  her  prayer, 
it  was  to  whisper,  "  I  feel  better,  dear  "  :  and  from  that 
time  he  recovered. 

On  the  return  journey  to  Shanghai  he  regained  a  measure 
of  strength,  but  the  summer  (1899)  had  to  be  spent  either 
on  the  hills  or  at  Chef 00.  It  was  a  matter  of  concern  to 
Mr.  Taylor  that  the  men  for  the  Forward  Movement  seemed 
to  be  volunteering  so  slowly.  Some  had  been  sent  out  and 
some  had  offered  from  the  ranks  of  the  Mission  in  China, 
including  his  own  youngest  son,  but  quite  a  few  were  yet 
needed  to  make  up  the  first  twenty,  though  the  money 
to  sustain  them  was  waiting  in  abundance.  Contrasted 
with  former  experiences,  such  as  the  answers  to  prayer 
in  connection  with  the  Seventy  and  the  Hundred,  this 
seemed  the  more  remarkable,  and  could  not  but  confirm 
Mr.  Taylor's  life-long  conviction  that  in  God's  work  the 
silver  and  the  gold,  though  very  necessary,  are  of  secondary 
importance.  Still,  the  disturbed  state  of  the  country 
reconciled  him  to  patience.  Things  seemed  to  be  going 
from  bad  to  worse  politically.  The  anti-foreign  movement 
fostered  by  the  Dowager  Empress  was  growing  in  power, 
and  it  might  be  long  before  normal  conditions  were  restored. 
Meanwhile  a  promised  visit  had  to  be  paid  to  Australia 
and  New  Zealand,  and  then  to  New  York  for  the  GEcumenical 
Missionary  Conference.  This  journey,  Mr.  Taylor  hoped, 
would  greatly  help  the  Forward  Movement,  as  well  as  call 
forth  much  prayer  for  China. 

A  tender  and  special  interest  necessarily  attaches  to 
those  spring  and  summer  days  that  witnessed  his  last 
ministries  in  scenes  and  to  fellow-workers  long  held  dear. 
So  unconscious  was  he  that  his  work  in  China  was  drawing 
to  a  close  that  he  entered  heartily  into  plans  for  building 
a  cottage  to  which  he  and  Mrs.  Taylor  could  retire  for 
rest  from  the  busy  Mission-house  at  Shanghai.  This  little 
summer  home,  the  only  dwelling  they  ever  planned  for 


EVEN  SO,  FATHER  581 

themselves,  consisted  of  a  sitting-room  and  two  small 
bedrooms,  over  kitchen  and  servants'  quarters,  with  an 
upstairs  verandah  on  three  sides.  The  latter  was  the 
great  attraction,  for  from  it  the  well-wooded  hills  stretched 
away  in  beautiful  vistas  to  the  plain  two  thousand  feet 
below.  Cool  even  on  summer  nights,  the  spot  seemed 
ideal  for  a  sanatorium,  and  Mr.  Taylor  had  purchased  a 
strip  of  the  hill  while  property  up  there  was  still  of  httle 
value.  It  was  soon,  however,  to  become  a  favourite  resort 
for  foreign  residents,  and  a  service  of  steam-launches  brought 
it  wdthin  two  days  of  Shanghai. 

Thus  it  was  that  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  found  themselves 
in  the  old  home  at  Hang-chow  once  more,  for  having  missed 
the  north-bound  launch  they  had  just  time  to  go  down 
while  waiting  for  the  next  train  of  boats  to  start.  The 
visit  was  only  for  a  few  hours,  but  how  many  recollections 
it  brought !  More  than  thirty  years  had  elapsed  since  the 
Lammermuir  party  had  found  shelter  in  the  house  next  door, 
beginning  there  the  work  that  had  now  spread  to  the  most 
distant  provinces.  Fuh  Ku-niang,  the  bright-faced  girl 
who  had  been  the  first  to  visit  the  women  in  their  homes, 
and  had  led  many  to  the  Saviour,  was  still  remembered  and 
loved.  Long  had  she  borne  with  her  husband  the  burden 
and  heat  of  the  day.  Its  working  hours  were  numbered  now. 
How  gladly  would  they  have  spent  them  to  the  last  with 
the  dear  old  Pastor  in  the  care  of  the  church,  and  in  soul- 
saving  work  which  had  always  had  a  first  place  in  their 
hearts.  But  the  Mission  needed  them,  needed  them  in 
some  ways  more  than  ever,  and  in  service  to  their  fellow- 
workers  all  those  last  weeks  and  months  were  filled.  No 
one  could  sympathise,  counsel,  or  comfort  as  they  could ; 
no  one  had  so  sure  an  access,  by  way  of  the  Throne,  to  other 
hearts. 

In  much  perturbation  of  spirit,  for  example,  one  devoted 
worker  had  come  down  to  Shanghai  in  May,  determined 
to  leave  the  Mission  unless  the  principle  of  not  appealing 
to  Consuls  for  redress  could  be  so  far  set  aside  in  his  case 
as  to  admit  of  his  wrongs  being  righted  in  connection  with 
a  recent  riot.     Mr.  Taylor  greatly  valued  both  the  brother 


582         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

in  question  and  his  work.  He  knew  him  to  be  a  man  of 
intense  convictions  and  strong  feehngs,  and  being  warned 
of  his  attitude  by  Mr.  Stevenson,  who  had  travelled  with 
him,  gave  himself  specially  to  prayer,  and  delayed  the 
interview  for  a  day  or  two.  It  was  a  case  for  putting  into 
practice  his  own  words  : 

What  is  spiritual  ministry  ?  It  is  that  if  you  see  me  to  be 
wrong  you  are  able  by  prayer,  by 'spiritual  power,  by  tact,  by 
love,  forbearance  and  patience  to  enlighten  my  conscience,  and 
thus  cause  me  gladly  to  turn  from  my  mistaken  course  to  the 
right  one.-^ 

Meanwhile  the  young  missionary,  eager  and  impatient 
as  he  was,  began  to  see  things,  somehow,  in  a  different 
light.  Though  no  word  was  said  against  his  position,  he 
could  not  but  feel  as  he  reconsidered  the  matter  that  it  was, 
perhaps,  rather  out  of  keeping  with  the  spirit  of  Christ. 
He  little  knew  that  Mr.  Taylor,  who  seemed  too  busy  to 
spare  him  a  few  minutes,  was  spending  not  minutes  but 
hours  in  earnest  pleading  on  his  behalf.  But  that  hidden 
influence  did  what  no  reasoning,  far  less  exercise  of  authority, 
could  have  accomplished. 

"  Before  the  interview  took  place,  or  Mr.  Taylor  said  a  word 
to  me  on  the  subject,"  he  recalled  with  thankfulness,  "  my  whole 
position  was  changed.  I  saw  I  had  been  utterly  wrong,  and  that 
the  C.I.M.  principle  was  right,  even  in  such  a  peculiar  case  as 
mine.  During  our  first  conversation,  Mr.  Taylor  did  not  refer 
to  the  matter.  He  talked  about  other  things,  asking  my  opinion 
as  to  the  use  of  certain  drugs,  and  when  the  dinner-bell  rang  said 
that  he  would  like  to  have  further  talk  with  me  that  afternoon 
at  three  o'clock. 

"  I  felt  guilty  over  taking  up  so  much  of  his  time,  and  so, 
though  I  had  resolved  not  to  open  the  subject,  I  decided  to  tell 

^  "  Though  we  cannot  scold  people  right  we  may  often  love  them 
right,"  he  had  written  to  Mr.  Stevenson  before  leaving  England.  "  It 
will  not  do  for  us  to  lose  expectant  faith  and  Holy  Ghost  power,  and  let 
those  whom  God  gives  us  drift  away,  if  prayer  and  fasting,  pains  and 
patience  will  hold  them  together.  .  .  .  We  must  claim  from  God  by 
faith  the  love  and  spiritual  power  that  will  make  raen  wish  to  obey." ..  .  . 
I  do  long  for  myself  and  for  all  of  us  to  be  more  filled  with  the  Spirit, 
and  thus  fitted  for  God's  work.  Then  we  shall  always  overflow  with  love, 
joy,  peace,  gentleness,  and  all  the  fruit  of  the  Spirit,  and  every  one  will 
be  attracted  and  helped  as  far  as  possible." 


EVEN  SO,  FATHER  583 

him  frankly  of  my  change  of  position.     At  the  appointed  hour  I 
went  to  him  and  said  : 

"  '  Mr.  Taylor,  I  feel  I  ought  to  let  you  know  at  once  that  I 
see  things  differently,  and  am  prepared  to  submit  the  whole 
matter  to  you  and  act  as  you  may  direct.'  " 

It  was  a  manly  decision,  w^orthy  of  a  strong  character, 
and  Mr.  Taylor's  rehef  was  so  great  that  he  could  only 
exclaim,  "  Thank  God  !  " 

"  This  experience  was  a  crisis  and  turning-point  in  my  life," 
continued  Dr.  Keller.  "  It  taught  me  in  a  most  practical  way 
how  ej/en  strongly  formed  purposes  can  be  changed  and  men's 
hearts  influenced  by  prayer  alone.  I  have  always  felt  that 
surrenders  made  and  principles  accepted  at  that  time,  together 
with  real  changes  in  character  that  then  took  place,  were  God's 
direct  and  gracious  answer  to  Mr.  Taylor's  prayers."  ^ 

Then  at  Chef 00  that  summer  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  had 
many  opportunities  of  coming  into  touch  with  the  staff 
and  pupils  of  the  three  flourishing  schools.  The  month 
spent  in  their  midst  was  full  of  interest. 

"  Over  a  hundred  and  fifty  children,"  Mrs.  Taylor  wrote,  "  all 
in  good  health  and  doing  weU  in  their  work,  is  something  to  be 
thankful  for." 

^  When  Dr.  Keller  was  willing  to  accept  Mr.  Taylor's  advice  and  help, 
the  latter  arranged  for  a  more  experienced  missionary,  the  Rev.  Ed. 
Pearse,  to  go  to  the  capital  of  the  province  and  call  on  the  Governor  to 
make  a  friendly  representation.  This,  by  the  blessing  of  God,  proved 
entirely  successful.  The  Governor  sent  a  deputy  to  Cha-ling-chow,  who 
arranged  with  the  local  authorities  to  repair  the  house  and  re-estabUsh 
the  missionaries  according  to  Chinese  law.  In  order  that  the  landlord 
might  be  fully  compensated.  Dr.  Keller  waived  all  claim  to  indemnity. 

"  Every  one  was  delighted  with  this  arrangement,"  the  Doctor  wrote 
after  his  return,  "  and  all  the  secretaries  and  petty  officials  in  the  ya-men 
rushed  in  to  thank  us  for  our  gracious  treatment  of  the  Chow  (the  local 
Mandarin).  From  this  time  the  Chow  and  his  family  were  our  warm 
friends.  I  became  their  family  physician  .  .  .  and  the  Chow  himself 
came  to  Chang-sha  (the  capital)  years  after  to  be  treated  by  me  in  his 
last  illness.  They  proved  the  sincerity  of  their  friendship  at  the  time  of 
the  Boxer  uprising.  After  the  Itahan  priests  had  been  killed  at  Heng- 
chow,  a  band  of  soldiers  came  over  to  Cha-Hng  and  wanted  to  kill  me. 
The  Chow  protected  me  for  a  week  in  his  ya-men,  and  at  last,  when  things 
got  beyond  control  and  his  own  life  was  in  danger,  he  got  me  away  by 
night,  and  sent  me  with  a  strong  escort  safely  to  Kiang-si.  A  year  later 
we  went  to  Chang-sha,  and  our  kindly  reception  there,  together  with  the 
confidence  and  friendship  of  the  officials  which  were  such  a  help  to  us, 
were  largely  due  to  the  settlement  at  Cha-iing  made  in  answer  to  Mr. 
Taylor's  prayers.  ' 


./ 


584        THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Delighting  in  the  happiness  of  the  boys  and  girls,  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Taylor  never  tired  of  watching  their  games  and 
seeing  all  they  could  of  them  personally.  Foundation  Day 
was  a  great  occasion.  A  boat  race  in  the  early  morning, 
follow^ed  by  cricket  and  tennis  matches,  prepared  the 
young  folk  to  enjoy  the  quiet  noonday  hour  with  plenty 
of  singing  and  an  address  from  Mr.  Taylor.  After  tea, 
under  the  willows,  several  photographs  were  taken,  and 
the  cool  of  evening  brought  a  dehghtful  "  social  "  in  the 
quadrangle. 

"  It  was  a  warm,  moonlit  night,"  wrote  Mrs.  Taylor,  "  and 
the  lights  in  the  room  near  the  pianos  were  all  that  was  necessary. 
One  of  the  teachers,  Miss  Norris,  is  a  beautiful  musician,  and  with 
songs  and  recitations  the  pleasant  day  ended." 

In  the  serious  work  of  the  schools  with  all  that  it  involved 
for  the  teachers  of  strenuous,  self-denjdng  labour  they  were 
still  more  interested.  Few  could  realise  better  what  it 
meant  to  have  the  constant  care  of  so  many  young  lives 
in  a  climate  and  amid  surroundings  that  were  often  trying. 
The  strain  upon  patience  and  endurance  was  great  indeed, 
and  to  no  members  of  the  Mission  did  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor's 
hearts  go  out  in  deeper  sympathy.  Writing  to  the  ladies 
in  the  Girls'  School  especially,  Mrs.  Taylor  said,  as  they 
were  leaving  the  beautiful  harbour  for  the  last  time  (June 
26,  '99)  : 

I  do  love  and  value  you,  and  am  so  glad  to  know  you  better  ! 
Though  we  have  left,  our  hearts  are  still  with  you,  and  we  would 
fain  have  had  longer  together.  I  do  thank  you  for  givin^:  me 
your  confidence,  and  I  want  to  send  to  aU  of  you  a  good-bye 
message  :  it  is  this  :  Determine  to  prove  what  faith  and  love  will  do. 
"  Grip  God,"  as  Mr.  Inwood  says,  for  one  another.  Believe  that 
God  will  make  you  helpers,  each  one  to  all  the  rest.  Covet 
earnestly  to  put  joy  into  one  another's  lives,  and  by  love  conquer 
all  that  otherwise  would  be  trying.  Our  calling  in  Christ  Jesus 
is  to  live  supernatural  lives,  to  be  "  more  than  conquerors  "  day 
by  day.  Yield  yourselves  to  God  to  be  more  fuUy  indwelt,  and 
to  serve  only  in  His  strength,  and  then  expect  Him  to  do  all  that 
you  need,  for  "  nothing  shall  be  impossible  to  you.  ..." 

Only  take  firm  hold  of  God,  for  yourselves  and  for  one  another, 
and  look  out  to  see  what  God  will  do.     You  have  His  Almighti- 


EVEN  SO,  FATHER  585 

ness  amongst  you  always,  for  everything.  .  .  .  More  and  ever 
more  of  Christ  in  our  Hves,  more  of  dependence  upon  Him,  is 
the  remedy  for  every  lack,  the  solution  of  every  difhculty. 

To  the  last  this  loving  ministry  was  maintained,  by 
letters  and  in  other  ways,  so  that  it  was  difficult  to  get  off 
to  the  steamer  even  when  their  luggage  was  on  board  and 
they  were  starting  for  America  via  AustraHa  and  New 
Zealand.  Mr.  Taylor  was  still  writing  letters  when  Mrs. 
Taylor  left  for  the  dock — letters  of  sympathy  and  comfort 
to  one  and  another  whose  needs  were  upon  his  heart.  It 
was  midnight  before  he  could  tear  himself  away,  a  fine 
night  in  September.  Only  Mr.  Stevenson  accompanied 
him,  the  Mission-house  being  all  asleep  and  farewell  said 
some  hours  before.  Together  they  went  by  rickshaw 
through  the  quiet  streets,  and  alone  Mr.  Stevenson  returned 
to  the  heavy  responsibilities  that  awaited  him. 

For  events  were  moving  with  starthng  rapidity,  now, 
to  the  denouement  of  1900.  Mr.  Taylor  was  still  in  the 
midst  of  his  campaign  in  Australia,  joined  by  the  writers, 
when  the  Dowager  Empress  put  forth  the  inflammatory 
edict  with  which  that  fateful  year  opened.  Posted  up 
in  every  city  of  importance,  those  burning  words  lost  nothing 
through  the  free  translation  given  by  scholars  to  the  great 
mass  of  the  ilKterate.  It  was  seen  to  be  war  to  the  death, 
and  the  secret  society  of  patriotic  "  Boxers,"  pledged  to 
the  extermination  of  all  foreigners,  flourished  under  Imperial 
protection  till  the  movement  spread  like  wildfire  throughout 
the  land. 

By  this  time  Mr.  Taylor  and  his  party,  having  found 
warm  friends  and  addressed  many  meetings  in  New  Zealand, 
had  crossed  the  Pacific  to  California,  and  were  on  their  way 
to  New  York,  where  they  were  among  the  speakers  expected 
at  the  GEcumenical  Conference.  From  all  parts  of  the  world 
representative  missionaries  and  others  gathered  for  this 
great  occasion,  and  much  prayer  was  made  for  China,  where 
the  situation  was  becoming  desperate.  After  the  Conference, 
sending  his  son  and  daughter-in-law  before  him,  that  they 
might  take  part  in  the  annual  meetings  of  the  Mission  in 
London,  Mr.  Taylor  remained  on  for  further  work.     Concern 


586         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

about  the  state  of  things  in  China  and  an  over-full  pro- 
gramme when  he  was  single-handed  proved  just  too  much, 
and  brought  about  a  rather  serious  breakdown. 

England  was  reached  in  June,  and  under  a  feeling  of 
urgency  that  she  hardly  understood,  Mrs.  Taylor  arranged 
for  the  continuation  of  their  journey  to  the  quiet  spot 
among  the  mountains  where  Mr.  Taylor's  health  had  been 
so  wonderfully  restored  some  years  previously.  He  was 
quite  unable  for  meetings  or  correspondence,  and  consented 
to  the  course  that  offered  best  prospect  of  recovery,  thank- 
ful to  leave  the  work  in  London,  as  in  Shanghai,  so  well 
provided  for.  At  Davos  they  had  found  warm  friends  in 
an  English  lady  and  her  husband,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hofmann, 
who  received  visitors  in  a  homehke  Pension  at  moderate 
charges.  Simply  writing  to  say  they  were  coming,  the 
travellers  set  out — a  few  days  only  before  the  prayer  meet- 
ing at  Newington  Green,  at  which  Mrs.  Hofmann  herself 
was  present,  when  the  first  announcement  was  made  of 
the  terrible  events  even  then  transpiring  in  China.  Had 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  delayed  for  that  meeting  or  for  a  reply 
from  the  Villa  Concordia,  they  probably  would  never  have 
reached  the  shelter  of  that  quiet  home.  For  when  the 
telegrams  began  to  come  they  could  not  have  left  London. 
The  Boxers  had  already  entered  Peking,  and  the  work 
of  destruction  was  begun.  Hundreds  of  Christians  were 
massacred,  and  war  openly  entered  upon  by  the  Chinese 
authorities.  The  Foreign  Legations  were  in  a  state  of  siege, 
and  Imperial  decrees  had  gone  out  commanding  viceroys 
and  governors  everywhere  to  support  the  rising. 

Hearing  that  Mr.  Taylor  would  already  be  at  Davos, 
Mrs.  Hofmann  hastened  back  to  do  all  in  her  power  to  help 
and  comfort  in  that  time  of  sore  distress.  And  there  it 
was  the  blow  fell,  and  telegram  after  telegram  was  received 
telling  of  riots,  massacres,  and  the  hunting  down  of  refugees 
in  station  after  station  of  the  Mission — until  the  heart  that 
so  long,  in  joy  and  sorrow,  had  upheld  these  beloved  fellow- 
workers  before  the  Lord  could  endure  no  more,  and  almost 
ceased  to  beat.  But  for  the  protection  of  that  remote 
valley  where  news  could,  in  measure,  be  kept  from  liim. 


EVEN  SO,  FATHER  587 

Hudson  Taylor  would  himself  have  been  among  those  whose 
hves  were  laid  down  for  Christ's  sake  and  for  China  in  the 
oversweeping  horror  of  that  summer.  As  it  was  he  lived 
through  it,  holding  on  to  God. 

"  I  cannot  read,"  he  said  when  things  were  at  their 
worst ;  '*  I  cannot  think  ;  I  cannot  even  pray  ;  but  I  can 
trust/' 


CHAPTER  XL 

WATERS   OF   REST 

1900-1904.     Aet.  68-72. 

The  Lord  hath  His  way  in  the  whirlwind  and  in  the  storm  .  »  « 
and  He  knoweth  them  that  put  their  trust  in  Him. 

In  the  Mission-house  at  Ping-yang-fu  (South  Shan-si)  the 
Httle  party  of  foreigners  were  preparing  for  flight — facing 
the  desperate  journey  of  a  thousand  miles  overland,  through 
a  country  teeming  with  "  Boxers,"  to  the  nearest  place  of 
safety.  The  white-haired  native  pastor,  so  infirm  with  age 
that  he  could  hardly  walk,  had  come  to  bid  them  farewell, 
and  was  talking  with  one  of  the  ladies,  when  an  urgent 
message  called  him  out.  A  friend,  in  real  concern,  begged 
him  to  return  home  immediately.  It  was  at  the  risk  of 
his  life  he  was  showing  sympathy  with  foreigners.  An 
Imperial  Edict  had  just  arrived  saying  that  they  and  all 
connected  with  them  were  to  be  utterly  destroyed,  and  his 
only  safety  lay  in  keeping  out  of  sight.  Calmly  the  old 
man  returned  to  his  missionary  friends,  and  finished  what 
he  had  been  sajdng  with  the  words  : 

*'  Kueh  neng  mieh  ;  Kiao  mieh-puh-liao  "  :  *'  Kingdoms 
may  perish  ;  but  the  Church  can  never  be  destroyed." 

And  in  this  confidence  he  and  hundreds  of  other  Chinese 
Christians  sealed  their  testimony  with  their  blood.^ 

Among  those  who  escaped  in  Pastor  Hsi's  district  was 
one  dear  old  man  who  held  a  very  simple  creed.     He  had 

*  Pastor  Hsi  would  doubtless  have  been  among  the  number  had  he  not 
passed  away  four  years  previously.  Song,  ordained  Avith  him  in  1886 
was  the  Pastor  of  the  Ping-yang  church  above  referred  to. 

583 


WATERS  OF  REST  589 

long  been  a  leader  in  the  opium-refuge  work  and  had  seen 
much  of  the  power  of  God.  All  over  the  countryside 
people  knew  the  value  of  his  prayers  and  would  send  for 
him  in  sickness  or  trouble.  Yet  Li  Pu-cheo  was  no  scholar  : 
he  could  not  even  read.  But  one  thing  he  did  know  beyond 
a  doubt — that  the  Lord  Jesus  was  risen  from  the  dead, 
and  that  therefore  everything  was  possible. 

Before  the  terrible  summer  of  1900,  this  had  been  his 
ground  for  expecting  deliverance  in  and  through  every 
trial.  Was  some  village  cause  in  danger,  the  chapel  looted, 
and  the  Christians  scattered  ? 

"  But  I  knew  that  Jesus  rose  from  the  dead,"  he  would 
say  with  quiet  confidence. 

Because  of  that  glorious  fact  the  Httle  church  no  less 
would  rise.  And  neither  before  nor  after  those  long  months 
of  anguish  was  he  disappointed. 

For  Mr.  Taylor  too,  as  we  have  seen,  nothing  remained 
but  sheer  and  simple  faith.  "  Lord,  Thou  hast  been  our 
dwelhng-place  in  all  generations."  Long  had  he  found 
strength  and  sufficiency,  his  one  unchanging  rest,  in  God, 
and  that  Refuge  did  not  fail  him  now.  Everything  was 
falling  about  him,  everything  that  is  that  could  be  shaken  ; 
but  there  are  "  things  that  cannot  be  shaken,"  and  they 
held  fast  amid  the  storm.  The  confidence  of  a  hfetime — 
trust  in  the  infinite  faithfulness  of  our  Father  in  heaven 
— had  not  been  in  vain.  All  His  ways  are  love  and 
light,  light  and  love,  for  "  In  Him  there  is  no  darkness 
at  all." 

*'  Before  I  had  children  of  my  own,"  Mr.  Taylor  had 
often  said,  "  I  used  to  think,  God  will  not  forget  me  ;   but 
when  I  became  a  father  I  learned  something  more — God^ 
cannot  forget  me." 

In  the  last  analysis  is  it  not  just  that  love,  that  Father- 
hearty  we  must  fall  back  upon  ?  Amid  the  darkness  and 
confusion  and  all  the  havoc  wrought  by  sin  I  may  see  nothing, 
understand  nothing,  be  able  to  do  nothing,  not  even  to 
pray;;at  times ;  but  God  I  know.  All  is  intelhgible  from 
His  standpoint,  all  necessary,  working  out  the  highest  good. 


590         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

*'  I  trusted  in  Thee,  O  Lord :    I  said,  Thou  art  my  God. 
My  times  are  in  Thy  hand." 

Leaving  China  for  the  last  time  a  few  months  previously, 
Mr.  Taylor  had  written  to  one  in  trial — written  at  midnight 
just  as  he  was  going  to  the  steamer  : 

The  Lord  Himself  will  undertake  for  you  and  help  you.  .  ,  . 

Leave  God  to  order  all  thy  ways. 

And  hope  in  Him  whate'er  betide  ; 
Thou'lt  find  Him  in  the  evil  days 

Thy  all-suf&cient  strength  and  guide  : 
Who  trusts  in  God's  unchanging  love 
Builds  on  the  rock  that  naught  can  move. 

And  this  he  and  those  he  bore  upon  his  heart  were  to  prove 
as  never  before. 

But  how  he  suffered  as  the  days  and  weeks  went  by  in 
the  sufferings  he  was  unable  to  lessen  or  even  directly  share  ! 
For  more  than  thirty  years  he  had  always  been  the  first 
to  hasten  to  scenes  of  calamity  and  danger,  never  sparing 
himself  if  he  could  succour  the  fellow-workers  he  so  truly 
loved.  And  now  in  the  hour  of  their  supreme  trial  he  had 
to  stand  aside,  and  be  wilhng  to  be  nothing  and  do  nothing, 
save  as  he  could  cry  to  God  on  their  behalf. 

"  Day  and  night  our  thoughts  are  with  you  all,"  Mrs.  Taylor 
wrote  in  July.  "  My  dear  Husband  says  :  '  I  would  do  all  I 
could  to  help  them  ;  and  our  Heavenly  Father,  Who  has  the 
power,  will  do  for  each  one  according  to  His  wisdom  and  love.'  " 

He  could  not  write  himself.  Indeed,  when  the  worst 
news  was  coming,  in  the  middle  of  August,  hfe  seemed  to 
ebb  away  so  fast  that  he  could  scarcely  cross  the  room 
alone,  and  his  pulse  fell  from  seventy  or  eighty  to  only 
forty  per  minute.  Anguish  of  heart  was  kilHng  him,  and 
it  was  only  by  keeping  the  tidings  back  in  measure  that 
the  slender  thread  of  life  held  on.  With  the  relief  of  the 
Legations  and  the  flight  of  the  Court  from  Peking  (August 
14)  the  Boxer  madness  began  to  pass  away,  and  Li  Hung- 
chang  was  called  again  to  the  helm,  to  pilot  his  distracted 
country  through  the  compHcations  with  foreign  Powers. 
But  before  that  time  the  Inland  Mission  had  a  martyr-roll 


WATERS  OF  REST  591 

of  over  fifty  of  its  members,  while  not  a  few  who  survived 
had  suffered  even  more  than  those  whose  Uves  had  been 
laid  down.      Fifty-eight   in   the  C.I.M.  alone  perished  in 
that   terrible   crisis,    besides    twenty-one   children    of  "the 
Mission,  martyred  with  their  parents  or  dying  under  suffer- 
ings the  latter  were  enabled  to  survive.     But  in  all  the 
correspondence  of  the  period  not  one  bitter  feeUng  can  b^,    ) 
traced  against  their  persecutors,  not  one'desire  for  vengeance     ■ 
or  even   for  indemnification.     The   spirit   of   that   tender 
mother  who — dying  after  weeks   of  brave  endurance   on 
the  journey  to  Hankow,  having  lost  one  little  one  by  the 
way  and  witnessed  the  prolonged  sufferings  of  others — 
whispered  to  her  husband,  "  I  wish  I  could  have  lived,  I    ; 
wish  I  could  have  gone  back  there,  to  tell  the  dear  people 
more  about  Jesus,"  seemed  rather  to  animate  all  hearts.^ 

As  to  the  difficult  question  of  compensation,  Mr.  Taylor 
had  from  the  first  advised  that  no  claim  should  be  made 
by  the  Mission,  and  that  even  if  offered  none  should  be 
accepted  for  injury  to  life  or  person.  Later  on  when,  besides 
a  heavy  indemnity  and  other  punitive  measures,  retribution 
of  a  fearful  character  was  inflicted  by  certain  of  the  Powers, 
he  went  further,  fully  agreeing  with  the  Councils  that 
indemnification  for  Mission  property  also  should  be  declined, 
though  individuals  were  left  free  to  accept  compensation 
for  personal  losses  if  they  so  desired.  This  action,  though 
criticised  in  certain  quarters,  was  warmly  approved  at  the 
British  Foreign  Office  and  by  its  Minister  in  Peking,  who 
sent  a  private  donation  of  a  hundred  pounds  to  the  Mission 
in  expression  of  his  "  admiration  "  and  sympathy. 

When  with  returning  strength  Mr.  Taylor  was  able  to 
bear  more  detailed  knowledge  of  what  had  taken  place, 
not  one  page  of  journals  or  letters  did  he  spare  himself  as 
these  came  to  hand.  Snow  had  fallen  on  the  mountains 
when  he  sought  his  daughter-in-law  one  bright  October 
morning  where   she   was  working   on   the   manuscript   of 

1  A  precious  heritage  to  the  people  of  God  is  found  in  the  full  story    \ 
of  the  Boxer  crisis  as  it  affected  the  Inland  Mission,  told  by  Mr.  Marshall     j 
Broomhall  in  his  Martyred  Missionaries  of  the  C.I.M. ,  by  the  Rev.  A.  / 
Glover  in  A  Thousand  Miles  of  Miracle  in  China,  and  by  Mr.  C.  H.  Greeir 
in  his  equally  touching  record  of  personal  experiences,  In  Deaths  Oft. 


592         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Pastor  Hsi.  A  mail  had  just  been  received  with  tidings 
from  Pastor  Hsi's  own  district,  which  had  moved  him  deeply. 
Tears  overflowed  as  he  paced  the  little  room,  telling  of 
what  he  had  been  reading — last  letters  from  his  dear  friend 
Miss  Whitchurch  and  her  companion,  Miss  Searell,  written 
only  the  day  before  they  met  death  alone  in  their  distant 
station. 

"  Oh,  think  what  it  must  have  been,"  he  broke  in  on 
the  sad  recital,  **  to  exchange  that  murderous  mob  for 
the  rapture  of  His  presence,  His  bosom,  His  smile  !  " 

'*  They  do  not  regret  it  now,"  he  continued,  when  able 

to  command  his  voice,  "  '  A  crown  that  fadeth  not  away.' 

They  shall  walk  with  Me  in  white,  for  they  are  worthy.'  " 

A  little  later,  speaking  of  his  longing  to  go  to  Shanghai 
to  be  with  the  refugees  gathered  there. 

"I  might  not  be  able  to  do  much,"  he  said,  "but  I 
feel  they  love  me.  If  they  could  come  to  me  in  their  sorrows 
and  I  could  only  weep  with  them,  it  might  be  a  comfort 
to  some." 

Tenderly  his  daughter-in-law  tried  to  tell  him  how  much 
such  sympathy  would  mean,  and  that  there  was  no  one  in 
the  world  who  could  give  it  as  he  could,  but  even  that  was 
almost  more  than  he  could  bear. 

Prevented  thus  from  being  himself  in  China,  it  was  a 
great  comfort  to  Mr.  Taylor  that  Mr.  Stevenson  was  not 
without  the  help  of  one  manifestly  prepared  of  God  for 
this  emergency.  Mr.  Cooper,  whose  return  from  the  north 
he  had  been  eagerly  anticipating,  had  fallen  by  the  heads- 
man's axe,  and  it  seemed  as  if  nothing  could  make  up  to 
the  Mission  for  the  loss  of  so  wise  and  prayerful  a  leader, 
whose  experience  and  powers  of  sympathy  fitted  him  to 
be  a  help  to  the  Chinese  Christians  no  less  than  to  his  fellow- 
missionaries.  But  by  Mr.  Taylor's  wish  and  arrangement, 
Mr.  D.  E.  Hoste  had  come  down  from  Ho-nan,  of  which 
he  was  then  Superintendent,  and  was  spending  the  summer 
at  Shanghai.  He  was  thus  at  hand  when  the  pressure 
upon  Mr.  Stevenson  became  overwhelming,  and  was  able 
to  give  invaluable  assistance.  Feeling  that  his  own  life 
might  be  cut  short  at  any  time,  Mr.  Taylor  cabled  out  in 


WATERS  OF  REST  593 

August,  appointing  Mr.  Hoste  as  Acting  General  Director  of 
the  Mission.  This  was  no  hasty  step  taken  in  an  emergency. 
For  years  he  had  been  looking  to  the  Lord  for  guidance  as 
to  his  successor,  and  had  seen  with  thankfulness  Mr.  Hoste's 
growing  fitness  for  the  position.  There  had  been  no  un- 
certainty in  Mr.  Taylor's  mind,  even  before  he  left  China, 
as  to  the  answer  to  his  prayers  ;  and  though  the  appoint- 
ment of  Mr.  Hoste  was  not  made  pubUc  until  some  months 
later,  when  Mr.  Stevenson's  approval  and  that  of  the  London 
and  China  Councils  had  been  cordially  expressed,  Mr. 
Taylor  had  the  comfort  of  feehng  that  an  important  step 
had  been  taken  to  safeguard  the  interests  of  the  whole  work. 
Another  cause  for  thankfulness  was  the  spirit  that 
breathed  through  many  a  letter  that  found  its  way  to 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  at  Davos. 

"  I  have  been  writing,"  he  said  toward  the  close  of  the  year, 
"  to  some  of  the  relatives  of  those  we  have  lost,  to  comfort  them 
in  their  sorrow,  and  to  my  surprise  they  forget  their  own  bereave- 
ment in  sympathising  with  me." 

How  much  it  meant  to  him  that  fathers  and  mothers 
should  not  only  write  in  a  spirit  of  resignation,  but  should 
send  gifts  for  the  work,  and  even  wish  that  others  of  their 
children  might  be  called  to  missionary  service,  will  readily 
be  understood.  In  reply  to  a  letter  of  loving  sympathy 
from  Shanghai,  signed  by  three  hundred  members  of  the 
Mission,  he  wrote  in  December  (1900)  : 

As  we  have  read  over  your  signatures  one  by  one  we  have 
thanked  God  for  sparing  you  to  us  and  to  China.  The  sad 
circumstances  through  which  we  have  all  suffered  have  been 
permitted  by  God  for  His  glory  and  our  good,  and  when  He  has 
tried  us  and  our  native  brethren  He  will  doubtless  reopen  the 
work  at  present  closed,  under  more  favourable  circumstances 
than  before. 

We  thank  God  for  the  grace  given  to  those  who  have  suffered. 
It  is  a  wonderful  honour  He  has  put  upon  us  as  a  mission  to  be 
trusted  with  so  great  a  trial,  and  to  have  among  us  so  many 
counted  worthy  of  a  martyr's  crown.  Some  who  have  been 
spared  have  perhaps  suffered  more  than  some  of  those  taken,  and 
our  Lord  will  not  forget.  How  much  it  has  meant  to  us  to  be 
so  far  from  you  in  the  hour  of  trial  we  cannot  express,  but  the 

2Q 


594         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

throne  of  grace  has  been  as  near  to  us  here  as  it  would  have  been 
in  China.  .  .  . 

When  the  resumption  of  our  work  in  the  interior  becomes 
possible  we  may  find  circumstances  changed,  but  the  principles 
we  have  proved,  being  founded  on  His  own  unchanging  Word, 
wiU  be  applicable  as  ever.  May  we  all  individually  learn  the 
lessons  God  would  teach,  and  be  prepared  by  His  Spirit  for  any 
further  service  to  which  He  may  caU  us  while  waiting  for  the 
coming  of  the  Lord. 

It  was  not  until  the  following  summer  (1901)  that  Mr. 
Taylor  was  obliged  to  abandon  his  cherished  hope  of  return- 
ing before  long  to  China.  A  little  accident  in  the  Chamounix 
Valley,  where  he  was  regaining  a  measure  of  strength, 
brought  on  his  old  spinal  trouble,  and  for  many  months 
he  was  more  or  less  crippled.  It  seemed  impossible,  at 
first,  that  such  a  small  thing  would  develop  serious  con- 
sequences— only  a  slip  on  the  pine-needles  on  a  wooded 
slope.  But  it  proved  God's  answer  to  His  servant's  prayer 
for  guidance,  by  gently  closing  the  way. 

A  visit  to  England  some  months  later  brought  happy 
intercourse  with  friends  at  the  Mission-house  and  in  other 
circles,  but  was  too  much  of  a  strain  because  of  its  very 
interests.  It  was  all  Mr.  Taylor  could  do — just  before 
his  seventieth  birthday — to  return  to  the  quieter  surround- 
ings of  Switzerland,  thankful  for  the  relief  of  the  simple, 
retired  Hfe  which  enabled  him  and  Mrs.  Taylor  to  serve 
the  Mission  still  by  prayer  and  correspondence. 

Glad  to  be  near  their  beloved  friend,  Mrs.  Berger,  it 
was  by  the  Lake  of  Geneva  they  made  their  home  at  length, 
in  the  hamlet  of  Chevalleyres  above  Vevey.  No  railway 
chmbed  the  hillside  then,  nearer  than  the  village  and  castle 
of  Blonay,  whose  grey  old  tower  looked  out  on  a  scene 
of  ever-changing  beauty.  Further  up  toward  the  wooded 
heights  of  the  Pleiades  an  attractive  though  simple  Pension 
was  found  among  meadows  and  orchards.  Entering  at 
the  back,  from  the  level  of  the  road,  the  south  rooms  on 
the  ground  floor  were  raised  a  storey  above  the  garden. 
This  was  just  what  Mrs.  Taylor  was  seeking.  A  little 
sitting-room  and  bedroom,  with  a  front  balcony  and  a 
closed-in  verandah  toward  the  sun-rising,  offered  just  the 


WATERS  OF  REST  595 

accommodation  needed ;  while  the  moderate  charge  of 
four  and  a  half  francs  a  day  included  meals  served  in  their 
own  apartment.  But  best  of  all  was  the  kindness  of  Monsieur 
and  Madame  Bon  jour  and  their  parents  in  the  old  home 
next  door,  who  from  the  first  seemed  specially  drawn  to 
these  visitors. 

Here,  then,  they  came  to  stay  in  the  summer  of  1902  ; 
and  here  they  found  loving  care  and  sympathy  that  almost 
made  them  feel  as  if  they  were  among  their  own  people. 
From  the  dear  old  Count  and  Countess  at  the  chateau  to 
the  peasants  who  met  them  in  their  daily  walks  there  came 
to  be  hardly  a  face  that  did  not  brighten  or  a  heart  that 
did  not  warm  toward  the  white-headed  missionary  and 
his  devoted  companion.  Love  radiated  from  their  lives, 
despite  the  restrictions  of  an  unfamiliar  language,  and  it 
is  safe  to  say  that  that  love  was  never  more  warmly  responded 
to  than  in  this  last  resting-place  on  their  earthly  pilgrimage. 

"  My  beloved  husband  is  very  frail,"  Mrs.  Taylor  wrote  a 
few  weeks  after  settling  in.  "I  am  thankful  he  can  be  so  quiet 
here  and  comfortable.  We  are  looking  forward  to  seeing  Mr. 
Hoste." 

Little  by  Httle,  as  their  stay  was  prolonged,  the  Pension 
became  quite  a  resort  for  English  guests,  many  friends 
coming  for  longer  or  shorter  visits  because  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Taylor  were  there.  This  afforded  dehghtful  society  and 
opportunities  for  united  prayer  about  China.  That  little 
corner  sitting-room  became,  indeed,  a  C.LM.  centre  up 
among  the  mountains,  the  precious  influence  of  which  was 
felt  in  many  distant  places. 

"  It  was  not  so  much  what  your  father  said  but  what  he  was  \ 
that  proved  a  blessing  to  me,"  wrote  Mr.  Robert  Wilder  of  that 
winter.     "  You  may  remember  the  words  of  Emerson,  '  Common     ^ 
souls  pay  with  what  they  do,  nobler  souls  Vvdth  what  they  are.'     ' 
Yoiif  father  bore  about  with  him  the  fragrance  of  Jesus  Christ. 
His  strong  faith,  quietness,  and  constant  industry,  even  in  his 
vpeakness,  touched  me  deeply.     It  was  a  privilege  to  spend  six 
months  with  him  in  the  same  house  at  ChevaUeyres.     To  see  a 
man  who  had  been  so  active  compelled  to  live  a  retired  Hfe, 
unable  to  pray  more  than  fifteen  minutes  at  a  time,  and  yet 
remaming  bright   and  even  joyous,  greatly  impressed  me.     I 


596         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

remember  his  saying,  '  If  God  can  afford  to  lay  me  aside  from 
active  service,  surely  I  should  not  object.'  Not  one  single  corn- 
plaint  or  murmur  did  we  ever  hear  from  his  lips.  Vie  was  always 
cheerful — rejoicing  in  the  flowers  by  day  and  studying  the  stars 
i  at  night." 

One  reason  for  the  quiet  happiness  of  those  days  was 
that  changes  and  partings  vi^ere  over,  and  the  two  who  had 
known  so  much  of  separation  could  be  together  at  last 
and  have  time  to  enjoy  one  another's  society.  -Epr  they^ 
were  lovers  still,  and  fitted  in  perfectly  with  each  other's 
needs.  At  first  they  were  able  to  be  out  a  good  deal  together, 
delighting  in  little  excursions  by  rail  and  steamer  and  in 
the  long,  patient  climbs  that  ended  in  a  glorious  outlook 
from  some  favourite  height.  By  degrees  it  came  to  be 
others  who  accompanied  Mr.  Taylor  in  his  longer  walks, 
however,  Mrs.  Taylor  finding  sufficient  excuse  for  stajdng 
oftener  at  home.  Her  strength  was  not  what  it  had  been, 
but  she  did  not  wish  him  to  be  anxious.  In  Miss  Williamson, 
who  managed  to  leave  the  Mission-house  for  months  at  a 
time  that  she  might  cheer  their  solitude,  he  had  a  companion 
whose  love  for  the  mountains  was  as  unfailing  as  his  own. 
And  always — writing  at  the  table  or  knitting  by  the  window 
— Mrs.  Taylor  was  ready  for  their  return  with  the  welcome 
cup  of  tea  and  cheery  news  of  visitors  or  letters.  Then 
there  were  long  hours  in  developing  the  photographs  taken 
and  studying  the  flowers  gathered.  The  keenness  of  Mr. 
Taylor's  pleasure  in  these  simple  enjoyments  as  well  as 
his  delight  in  nature  and  the  everyday  intercourse  of  friend- 
ship were  remarkable.  His  capacity  for  happiness  was 
VJike  that  of  an  unspoilt  child.  Time  never  hung  heavy 
on  his  hands  ;  and  while  unable  for  any  but  easy  reading, 
his  love  for  the  Word  of  God  remained  the  same.  In  this 
seventy-first  year  of  his  life  he  read  the  Bible  through  from 
beginning  to  end,  for  the  fortieth  time  in  forty  years,  and 
rejoiced  in  the  various  renderings  Mrs.  Taylor  loved  to 
gather  from  the  French  and  other  versions.^     His  corre- 

1  From  his  own  experience  Mr.  Taylor  said  :  "  The  hardest  part  of 
a  missionary  career  is  to  maintain  regular,  prayerful  Bible  study.  Satan 
will  always  find  you  something  to  do  when  you  ought  to  be  occupied  about 
that — if  it  is  only  arranging  a  window-bUnd  1  " 


WATERS  OF  REST  597 

spondence  was  carried  on  almost  entirely  through  her  pen, 
the  letter-books  that  remain  showing  how  closely  they 
were  in  touch  with  friends  in  many  parts  of  China  and  all 
over  the  world. 

Until  the  autumn  of  this  year  (1902)  Mr.  Taylor  retained 
his  position  as  General  Director  of  the  Mission,  receiving 
regular  reports  from  Mr.  Hoste,  Mr.  Stevenson,  and  others. 
Once  and  again  Mr.  Frost  and  Mr.  Sloan  came  over  to 
Switzerland  to  see  him,  and  on  their  second  visit  the  latter 
was  appointed  Assistant  Director  of  the  Mission  in  England. 
Then,  when  Mr.  Hoste  arrived  from  China  (November  1902), 
Mr.  Taylor  felt  that  the  time  had  come  for  lajdng  down 
responsibilities  for  which  he  was  no  longer  equal.  Many 
problems  were  pressing  in  connection  with  the  reconstruc- 
tion and  rapid  development  of  the  work.  Opportunities 
were  wonderful,  and  the  seed  sown  in  tears  and  watered 
with  blood  was  giving  promise  of  an  abundant  harvest. 
The  blessing  of  God  had  signally  rested  on  the  appointment 
made  two  years  previously,  and  knowing  he  had  the  full 
concurrence  of  all  the  Directors  and  Councils,  Mr.  Taylor 
felt  only  thankfulness  in  resigning  to  Mr.  Hoste  the  full 
direction  of  the  Mission.  The  change  had  come  about  so 
gradually  that  to  many  it  was  hardly  felt,  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Taylor  remaining  in  all  but  name  as  closely  connected  with 
the  work  as  ever,  but  to  Mr.  Hoste  it  meant  a  heavy  increase 
of  responsibility.  Waking  next  morning  in  his  little  room 
at  Chevalleyres,  in  the  grey  November  twilight,  it  all  came 
over  him  :  ~x    -:  . 

"  Now  I  have  no  one — no  one  but  God."y  ''  ■ 
But  the  love  and  confidence  of  all  his^fellow-workers 
went  out  to  him  afresh  when  the  appointment  became 
known,  many  writing  in  the  spirit  of  Mr.  Orr  Ewing's 
previous  letter  :  "I  am  thankful  that  you  have  been  led 
to. select,  perhaps,  the  most  prayerful  man  among  us." 

That  Mr.  Taylor  deeply  and  painfully  felt  his  inabiHty 
to  labour  as  he  had  formerly  was  evident  to  those  who  saw 
below  the  surface.  While  preparations  were  being  made 
one  morning  for  an  excursion  to  the  Matterhom,  he  learned 
that  one  of  the  family  felt  she  must  remain  at  home  to 


598         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

press  on  with  important  writing.  Coming  to  the  Httle 
study,  he  spoke  so  tenderly  about  the  disappointment,  and 
about  its  being  for  Jesus*  sake.  That  was  the  true  joy  of 
Ufe — to  do  all  for  Jesus'  sake.  Sacrifice  and  labour  were 
alike  sweet  when  it  was  for  Him. 

"  Yes,"  he  added  after  a  pause  in  which  she  could  not 
but  think  how  much  he  had  known  of  that  joy,  "  yes, 
but  it's  hardest  of  all  to  do  nothing  for  His  sake." 

Yet  he  rejoiced  in  and  shared  the  experience  of  his 
beloved  friend  the  Rev.  Charles  Fox,  whose  own  long  fruitful 
day  was  drawing  to  a  close  : 

Two  glad  services  are  ours. 

Both  the  Master  loves  to  bless  ; 
First  we  serve  with  all  our  powers. 

Then  with  all  our  feebleness. 
Nothing  else  the  soul  upUfts 

Save  to  serve  Him  night  and  day ; 
Serve  Him  when  He  gives  His  gifts. 

Serve  Him  when  He  takes  away. 

In  this  spirit  Mr.  Taylor  met  with  fortitude  the  last 
great  sacrifice  of  his  Ufe,  when  a  little  cloud  came  up  un- 
expectedly that  threatened  to  darken  the  whole  horizon. 
It  was  a  telegram  in  July  (1903)  that  first  informed  the 
writers  of  serious  trouble,  and  brought  them  from  their 
deputation  work  to  the  stricken  hearts  of  those  they  loved 
so  well.  An  internal  tumour  had  discovered  itself,  and 
Mrs.  Taylor,  whose  mother  had  died  of  cancer,  was  facing 
a  terrible  fear.  In  that  remote  Swiss  hamlet  they  felt  the 
need  of  their  doctor-son,  and  he  was  thankful  to  call  in  a 
speciahst  of  world-wide  fame  who  was  just  then  visiting 
Europe  and  ''  happened  "  to  be  in  Switzerland.  A  Christian 
man  of  no  ordinary  devotion.  Dr.  Howard  Kelly  was  a 
member  also  of  the  American  Council  of  the  C.I.M.,  so  that 
the  providence  of  his  being  just  then  accessible  was  very 
comforting,  one  of  many  evidences  of  the  tender  care  of 
God  at  this  time. 

For  it  was  cancer  ;  though  in  the  merciful  ordering  of 
circumstances  about  them  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  never  knew 
it,  and  even  the  fear  passed  away.     Not  that  they  were 


WATERS  OF  REST  599 

in  any  way  deceived  as  to  the  diagnosis.  When  the  case 
was  investigated  under  chloroform  it  was  found  that  an 
operation  would  be  useless,  the  disease  being  too  far  advanced. 
Having  committed  themselves  unreservedly  to  the  guidance 
of  God  through  the  specialists,  including  the  skilful  Dr. 
Roux  of  Lausanne,  they  never  questioned  further,  thank- 
fully concluding  that  an  operation  was  not  necessary.  The 
growth  must  therefore  be  a  simple  tumour,  and  their  relief 
was  so  great  that  nothing  but  thankfulness  remained.  It 
was  very  wonderful,  but  so  in  keeping  with  the  "  quietness 
and  confidence  "  of  their  whole  lives  that  it  did  not  seem 
strange. 

'*  Loving  kindness  and  tender  mercy  "  was  indeed  the 
crowning  of  the  years  that  remained  (i  903-1 904)  that 
might  have  been  so  full  of  pain  and  apprehension.  To 
those  who  knew  what  lay  before  them  it  was  a  daily  miracle 
to  see,  instead  of  a  troubled  sunset,  the  path  growing 
brighter  and  brighter  to  the  perfect  day.  Nothing  was 
changed  or  marred  of  their  happy  life  together.  Dying 
of  cancer,  she  was  still  taken  up  with  those  around  her,  not 
with  herself,  still  continued  her  loving  ministries  and  corre- 
spondence, still  lived  for  her  husband  and  for  China,  and  in 
her  days  of  weakness  and  suffering  did  but  count  the  more 
on  God. 

Be  glad  of  thy  helplessness.  Beloved  ; 
And  if  thou  needs  must  long, 

Let  it  be  only  for  the  rest  of  weakness 
In  the  Arms  for  ever  strong. 


The  winter  was  spent  in  Lausanne  to  be  near  Dr.  Roux, 
and  fully  did  Mrs.  Taylor  appreciate  the  comforts  of  a  home 
in  the  city  with  an  electric  tramway  to  the  very  door.  The 
English  church  and  the  frequent  visits  of  friends  were  a 
help  while  she  was  able  to  go  about  more  or  less  freely; 
and  then,  as  greater  weakness  came  on,  how  good  it  was 
to  return  to  the  spring  flowers  and  all  the  peace  and  beauty 
of  Chevalleyres  I  Back  in  their  old  quarters  and  surrounded 
as  before  with  loving  care,  their  cup  seemed  to  nm  over. 
Never  had  the  news  from  China  been  more  cheering. 


6oo         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

"  God  is  greatly  helping  Mr.  Hoste  in  directing  and  developing 
the  work  of  the  Mission,"  Mr.  Frost  had  written  after  his  visit  to 
Shanghai  in  February.  "  There  is  an  unusual  spirit  of  unity  and 
devotion  among  the  workers,  both  native  and  foreign.  Openings 
and  opportunities  abound  as  never  in  the  past,  and  souls  are 
being  won  to  Christ  and  gathered  into  the  churches  of  the  Mission 
in  ever-increasing  numbers." 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  were  rejoicing  also  in  an  accession 
of  means  which  enabled  them  to  make  a  number  of  un- 
expected gifts  at  this  time.  It  seemed  as  if  the  Lord  must 
have  hastened  the  winding  up  of  legal  proceedings  in 
Australia,  so  that  the  residuary  estate  of  her  uncle  yielded 
this  fifteen  hundred  pounds  while  she  was  still  able  to  use 
it  for  the  advancement  of  His  kingdom.  Giving  had  been, 
to  her,  the  luxury  of  Hfe,  and  she  was  to  have  the  joy  of 
giving  to  the  last.  Several  cheques  for  a  hundred  pounds 
found  their  way  to  the  treasuries  of  the  Mission,  with  words 
of  loving  cheer,  while  the  letters  that  went  with  other  gifts 
were  just  as  much  from  the  heart.  To  the  Secretary  of 
the  Church  Missionary  Society  she  wrote,  for  example  : 

My  beloved  husband  and  I  have  much  pleasure  in  sending 
a  little  contribution  toward  your  funds.  We  sympathise  with 
you  much  in  the  trial  and  crisis  you  are  in,  and  pray  that  God 
may  raise  up  many  more  friends  for  the  dear  C.M.S.,  and  may 
enable  those  who  do  give  to  do  so  more  adequately. 

And  her  last  gift  to  the  Rev.  John  Wilkinson  expressed 
the  deepest  interest  in  his  work  among  the  Jews.^ 

Thus,  then,  came  the  beauty  of  their  last  spring  and 
summer  days  together. 

"  You   ask   about   my   health,"    she   wrote   before   leaving 

*  Work  among  God's  ancient  people  occupied  a  special  place  in  the 
prayerful  sympathy  of  both  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  ;  and  Mr.  John  Wilkinson, 
founder  of  the  Mildmay  Mission  to  the  Jews,  recalled  an  interesting  phase 
of  their  long  friendship.  Taking  advantage  of  a  New  Year's  Day  spent 
at  home  (1897),  Mr.  Taylor  went  round  to  Mr.  Wilkinson's  house  with  a 
brotherly  note  enclosing  a  gift  for  the  Mission.  "  To  the  Jew  first,"  were 
the  words  with  which  the  cheque  was  accompanied.  Mr.  Wilkinson's 
warm  heart  was  touched,  and  he  immediately  wrote  a  brotherly  reply, 
enclosing  his  own  cheque  for  the  same  amount,  with  the  words  :  "And 
also  to  the  Gentile."  This  helpful  interchange  of  sympathy  was  kept  up 
ever  after,  the  only  change  being  that  each  doubled  the  amount  of  their 
contribution. 


WATERS  OF  REST  6oi 

Lausanne  (March  1904).  "  Well,  I  have  got  thin  and  weak,  and 
have  more  or  less  of  discomfort  at  times.  I  vary  a  good  deal, 
but  am  so  thankful  to  be  able  to  keep  about.  The  Lord's  loving 
kindness  and  tender  mercies  are  new  every  morning.  The  clever 
and  kind  Dr.  Roux  has  given  me  a  remedy  which  is  helping  me, 
and  I  am  able  to  rest  as  I  need  and  have  every  comfort. 

"  All  the  way  '  He  shall  choose,'  Who  knows  what  is  really 
best,  and  Who  loves  evermore.  My  beloved  husband  keeps  very 
frail.  .  .  .  We  match  one  another  very  well — ^both  so  thankful 
for  a  quiet  life  without  strain.  We  have  many  pleasures  and 
such  kind  friends  !  " 

And  after  their  return  to  Chevalleyres  : 

May  2  :  I  had  been  thinking  yesterday  morning  whether  we 
were  not  too  comfortable  here,  and  free  from  the  rubs  of  ordinary 
Ufe,  and  the  Lord  gave  me  His  answering  message  through  Daily 
Light,  so  sweetly  :  "  My  people  shall  abide  in  a  peaceable  habita- 
tion, and  in  sure  dwellings,  and  in  quiet  resting-places  "  (Is.  xxxii. 
18).  He  had  told  me  when  we  were  here  before  that  this  was  one 
of  His  "  resting-places."  Anything  more  peaceful  it  would  be 
impossible  to  find  down  here,  and  nature  is  so  lovely  now.  I  am 
sitting  on  the  verandah,  and  all  around  are  cherry-trees  in  blossom 
and  little  songsters  flitting  about,  while  the  grass  is  just  one  vast 
nosegay  of  flowers  :  narcissus  and  forget-me-nots  are  just  now 
our  favourites. 

The  long  chair  on  the  verandah  was  a  great  comfort, 
and  in  it  more  and  more  time  came  to  be  spent. 

"  I  have  weary  days  often,"  Mrs.  Taylor  wrote  to  Mrs.  Broom- 
hall  at  the  end  of  May,  "  but  am  not  suffering  as  I  did.  It  is  so 
good  to  know  that  all  is  chosen  for  one  in  infinite  love.  We 
received  such  a  good  report  on  Saturday  of  the  work  in  China. 
I  read  it  aloud  at  tea-time,  and  we  rejoiced  and  thanked  God." 

May  31  :  It  is  so  good  to  have  the  summer  before  us.  .  .  . 
The  news  from  China  was  never  more  encouraging. 

June  7  :  Dear  Howard  reached  us  last  Saturday,  and  we  hope 
to  have  him  mostly  with  us  now,  for  a  while.  It  relieves  the 
strain  on  my  dear  husband  about  me  as  nothing  else  could.  I 
do  very  fairly,  night  and  day,  except  for  the  weakness  which 
makes  it  difficult  to  get  across  the  floor  now.  The  Lord  has 
"  our  times  "  in  His  hand,  and  it  is  well. 

June  8  :  I  have  just  to  rest  in  Him  now.  My  busy  days  are 
aU  past ;  and  I  can  only  talk  to  Him  about  you  busy  toilers  in 
His  vineyard. 

June  8  :    Our  dear  Amy  is  here,  caring  for  us  very  lovingly. 


602         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Howard  spent  a  few  days  with  us,  on  his  return  from  China.  He 
and  Geraldine  have  been  doing  and  will  do  deputation  work  in 
England,  coming  to  us  for  a  little  while  in  the  summer,  D.V.,  and 
Howard  being  available  should  we  need  him.  No,  my  dear 
husband  had  no  bronchitis  in  the  winter,  not  even  a  cold.  We 
do  not  know  what  lies  before  us  ;  but  we  know  Him,  and  that 
all  will  be  well. 

June  24  :  My  strength  seems  ebbing  fast  away.  I  trust  I  may 
not  Hnger  on  in  a  quite  helpless  condition  ;  but  however  it  is,  it 
will  be  all  right. 

By  the  end  of  June  the  dear  invalid  was  obliged  to  give 
up  the  effort  of  dressing,  which  she  had  kept  on  with  as 
long  as  possible,  not  to  break  the  family  circle.  A  visit 
from  his  younger  son,  Charles,  was  a  great  comfort  to  Mr. 
Taylor  at  this  time,  and  the  bright  companionship  of  his 
daughter  Amy,  who  was  helping  with  the  nursing.  If 
anything  troubled  Mrs.  Taylor  it  was  the  fear  of  being  a 
burden  to  these  loved  ones,  and  under  the  circumstances 
it  seemed  difhcult  to  arrange  for  a  trained  nurse.  But  for 
this  too,  although  it  never  became  a  need,  the  Lord  provided. 
To  Mr.  Frost,  who  was  of  the  inner  circle  of  her  corre- 
spondents, Mrs.  Taylor  wrote  on  the  30th  : 

The  Bonjours  are  eager  to  do  anything  for  us  at  any  time,  and 
the  servants  are  like-minded.  The  chambermaid  speaks  EngUsh, 
and  is  a  very  nice,  trained  nurse.  If  I  come  to  need  night  atten- 
tion, I  am  to  have  her  altogether,  and  the  Bonjours  wiU  get 
some  one  else.  Could  anything  be  kinder,  seeing  she  is  most 
acceptable  and  capable  in  this  busy  house.  The  Lord  is  good 
and  does  make  His  children  kind  ! 

"  Since  I  have  not  attempted  to  get  up,  I  have  been  better  in 
some  ways,"  she  wrote  in  the  middle  of  July  ;  "  and  with  the 
French  windows  open  on  to  the  verandah  I  get  view  and  air, 
while  the  open  door  into  the  sitting-room  keeps  me  in  touch 
with  the  others.  I  could  not  be  better  cared  for  or  happier.  It 
is  just  a  peaceful,  quiet  time,  though  in  weakness  and  sometimes 
pain." 

I  have  been  pra3dng,  often,  "  Let  God  arise  "  ;  it  seems  to  be 
all  that  is  needed  anywhere. 

I  am  nearly  Home — what  will  it  be  to  be  there  ! 

It  is  aU  goodness  and  mercy,  and  will  be  to  the  end. 

The  Lord  is  taking  me  slowly  and  gently,  which  is  such  a 
mercy  for  dear  father's  sake. 


WATERS  OF  REST  603 

One  precious  letter  from  that  borderland  reached  her 
daughter-in-law  at  Keswick,  where  she  was  fulfilling  a  last 
engagement  before  hastening  to  the  dear  mother's  side. 

July  16  :  Here  in  my  quiet  room  I  hope  to  bear  you  up  next 
week  amid  the  thronging  multitudes.  I  am  learning  lessons  of 
the  sweet  power  of  helplessness  and  dependence  ;  and  perhaps 
you  too  are  learning  them  spiritually,  in  another  way.  Oh,  that 
one  had  always  been  quite  dependent  in  one's  service  1 

"  Leaning  upon  her  Beloved  "  it  is  always  "  coming  up,'*  and 
the  restfulness  and  the  guidance  and  the  full  supply  and  the  deep 
satisfaction  in  Him  are  all  secured.  May  He  enable  us  to  ask 
big  things  for  His  glory. 

It  will  be  lovely  to  see  you  here  afterwards,  if  the  Lord  will ; 
but  I  only  live  by  the  day  now,  not  knowing  what  the  next  may 
bring.  "  My  times  are  in  Thy  hand,"  so  blessed  that  it  is  so  ! 
You  will  know  the  comfort  that  dear  Howard  is,  and  Amy  and 
dear  father — all  so  loving  and  ready  to  spoil  me  in  everything. 
So  tenderly  the  Lord  is  deahng  with  us  1  there  seems  nothing  to 
wish  for,  only  to  praise. 


CHAPTER  XLi 

HIS   WAY   IS   PERFECT 

1904-1905.     Aet.  72-73. 

After  that  the  end  came  quietly.  A  few  more  helpful 
messages  and  letters,  showing  how  her  heart  went  out  to 
loved  ones  near  and  far  ;  a  last  gift  to  the  Mission  of  a 
hundred  pounds  as  *'  a  thank-offering  for  mercies  received 
and  expected  "  ;  a  few  days  so  peaceful  and  tender  that 
those  about  her  caught  the  reflection  in  those  deeply- 
shining  eyes  of  a  Presence  to  them  unseen,  and  then  the 
silent  crossing  of  the  swift,  dark  river. 

"  No  pain,  no  pain,"  she  said  repeatedly,  though  for 
some  hours  the  difficulty  in  breathing  was  distressing. 
Toward  morning,  seeing  Mr.  Taylor's  anguish  : 

"  Ask  Him  to  take  me  quickly,"  she  whispered. 

Never  had  he  had  a  harder  prayer  to  pray  ;  but  for  her 
sake  he  cried  to  God  to  free  the  waiting  spirit.  Five 
minutes  later  the  breathing  became  quiet — and  in  a  httle 
while  all  was  peace. 

Before  the  world,  O  soul,  I  longed  for  thee, 
And  still  I  long,  and  thou  dost  long  for  Me  ; 
And  when  two  longings  meet,  for  ever  stilled, 
The  cup  of  love  is  filled. 

But  for  him  the  desolation  was  unutterable.  On  the  wall 
of  the  httle  sitting-room  hung  a  text,  the  last  purchase  they 
had  made  together,  and  many  a  time  during  the  days  that 
followed  did  he  look  up  through  his  tears  to  the  words  in 
blue,  shining  out  from  their  white  background : 

604 


HIS  WAY  IS  PERFECT  605 

"  Celui  qui  a  fait  les  promesses  est  fidele."  ^ 
"  My  grace  is  sufFicient,"  had  been  almost  her  last  words 
to  him,  and  then — "  He  will  not  fail."  Upon  this  certainty 
he  rested  now  in  the  desolation  he  had  so  httle  strength  to 
endure,  remembering  her  constant  joy  in  the  will  of  God, 
and  that,  as  he  recalled  again  and  again,  "she  never  thought 
anything  could  be  better." 

Cheered  by  the  companionship  of  his  niece.  Miss  Mary 
Broomhall,  Mr.  Taylor  remained  on  in  the  Pension  that 
had  become  a  second  home.  Week  by  week  he  gathered 
strength  for  the  walk  down  to  Blonay  Castle  and  the  village 
and  church  of  La  Chiesaz,  where  his  loved  one  lay  sleeping. 
It  was  a  lovely  spot — the  grey  old  tower  of  the  church, 
draped  in  crimson  creepers,  seen  through  the  branches  of 
a  spreading  cedar,  with  all  the  background  of  lake  and 
mountains.  There  Mr.  Taylor  spent  many  an  hour,  plant- 
ing seeds  and  flowers,  or  quietly  resting  before  he  turned 
to  climb  the  hill  again. 

He  was  not  without  congenial  society  at  Chevalleyres 
that  winter,  some  old  friends  from  Toronto  making  a  stay 
of  several  months  and  entering  into  all  his  interests  with 
kindness  that  could  not  be  exceeded.  A  decided  improve- 
ment in  health  encouraged  him  to  hope  that  with  the  spring 
he  might  even  think  of  returning  to  China  ;  and  the  desire 
gaining  ground,  the  writers  were  set  free  to  accompany 
their  father  by  way  of  America. 

On  Mr.  Taylor's  seventh  visit  to  the  United  States  we 
must  not  dwell,  save  to  say  how  great  was  his  interest  in 
the  new  centre  of  the  Mission  in  Philadelphia.  In  the 
pleasant  suburb  of  Germantown  almost  a  fortnight  was 
spent  as  the  guests  of  Miss  C.  L.  Huston,  close  to  the  Mission- 
house  which  her  generosity  and  that  of  Mr.  H.  C.  Coleman, 
a  member  of  the  American  Council,  had  provided.  Very 
refreshing  was  the  intercourse  with  these  beloved  friends, 

*  To  a  friend  called  to  pass  through  similar  sorrow  Mr.  Taylor  wrote 
on  August  6,  one  week  after  his  own  bereavement  :  "  You  may  have 
noticed  the  French  version  of  Heb.  x.  23,  '  Celui  qui  a  fait  les  promesses 
est  fidUe  '  ('  Faithful  is  He  who  made  the  promises  ').  All  we  have  to  do 
is  to  look  out  with  patience  to  see  how  He  will  prove  it  true." 


6o6         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

as  well  as  with  the  larger  circle  who  welcomed  the  coming 
of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Frost  into  their  midst,  and  found  the 
Mission-house  to  be  a  centre  of  blessing.  There  in  the 
Saturday  prayer-meeting,  and  in  the  church  of  the  Rev. 
D.  M.  Stearns  near  by,  Mr.  Taylor  was  able  to  give  brief 
addresses. 

"  Every  remembrance  of  your  dear  father  stirs  my  heart,'* 
wrote  Dr.  Steams  a  few  months  later,  "  and  awakens  new  grati- 
tude to  God  for  that  Sunday  morning  when  you  and  he  sat  in  the 
little  church  at  Germantown,  knelt  together  at  the  chancel-rail 
to  commemorate  our  Lord's  death,  and  afterwards  stood  by  me 
(your  dear  father  standing  between  us)  while  he  gave  my  people 
an  after-Communion  message — reminding  us  that,  in  love,  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  had  died  for  us,  and  that  His  love  can  never 
die.  In  all  my  twenty-five  years'  ministry  I  never  saw  any  one 
so  moved  at  the  thought  of  the  love  of  God,  and  in  receiving  the 
emblems  of  our  Lord's  body  and  blood,  as  your  dear  father  was 
that  morning.  ...  I  have  wondered  whether  he  commemorated 
our  Lord's  death  again,  after  that,  in  the  Httle  while  that  remained 
before  his  Home-going  ?  " 

How  short  the  interval  was  to  be,  and  how  full  of  precious 
experiences,  no  one  anticipated.  Only  six  weeks  lay  before 
him  in  China,  but  frail  though  he  was  for  the  long  journeys 
undertaken,  there  was  no  sign  that  the  end  was  near,  and 
least  of  all  did  he  himself  expect  it. 

Landing  at  Shanghai  on  the  17th  of  April  (1905),  he  was 
welcomed  by  a  representative  company  at  the  Mission- 
house,  for  the  Spring  Council  Meetings  were  in  session. 
Mr.  Hoste  and  Mr.  Stevenson  were  there,  together  with 
some  who  had  come  through  the  worst  of  the  Boxer  out- 
break, and  from  the  Che-kiang  stations  Mr.  Meadows  had 
come  up,  whose  association  with  Mr.  Taylor  went  back  to 
the  old  days  of  the  Ningpo  Mission.  The  love  and  venera- 
tion for  their  leader  of  these  long-tried  friends  was  beautiful 
to  see,  as  were  also  the  tokens  of  welcome  from  far  and 
near — the  flowers  that  filled  his  rooms,  the  comforts  fore- 
thought had  provided,  and  the  letters  of  love  and  sympathy 
that  flowed  in. 

Easter  was  spent  with  Miss  Murray  at  Yang-chow, 
home  of  so  many  memories  !     There  and  at  Chin-kiang, 


HIS  WAY  IS  PERFECT  607 

the  old  headquarters  of  the  Mission,  early  prayers  and 
longings  could  not  but  come  to  mind — now  abundantly 
fulfilled.  How  weak  the  human  instrumentality  had  been 
all  through  !  "A  work  of  God,"  that  alone  explained  it ; 
and  a  remark  Mr.  Taylor  made  before  leaving  the  training 
home  was  long  remembered.  *'  We  cannot  do  much,  but 
we  can  do  a  little,  and  God  can  do  a  great  deal." 

From  the  new  Mission-house  near  the  hills  at  Chin-kiang 
it  was  an  easy  walk  to  the  cemetery  overlooking  the  river, 
where  in  the  long-ago  years  that  seemed  somehow  not  far 
away  he  had  laid  his  heart's  best  treasures.  There  the 
names  of  four  of  his  children  were  engraved  beside  their 
mother's  ;  and  the  memories  were  sweet  rather  than  sorrow- 
ful, for  the  partings  were  long  since  past  and  reunion  must 
be  at  hand.  To  a  group  of  young  workers  just  setting  out 
for  inland  stations  he  spoke  a  few  words  of  loving  counsel : 

It  is  a  great  pri\Hlege  to  meet  many  of  you  here.  I  have  met 
many  here  in  days  gone  by.  My  dear  v^ife  died  by  me  here.  .  .  . 
In  spirit  our  loved  ones  may  be  nearer  to  us  than  we  think ;  and 
He  is  near,  nearer  than  we  think.  The  Lord  Jesus  will  never 
leave  nor  forsake  us.  Count  on  Him  :  enjoy  Him :  abide  in 
Him.  Do,  dear  friends,  be  true  to  Him  and  to  His  Word.  He 
will  never  disappoint  you. 

"  You  may  be  tired  often  and  lonely  often,"  he  said  to  one  in 
parting,  "  but  the  Lord  knows  just  how  much  each  cup  costs. 
Look  to  Him  ;   He  will  never  disappoint  you." 

Steamer  to  Hankow  was  an  easy  stage  that  brought 
him  once  again  to  that  busy  centre  of  the  Mission  at  which 
there  was  so  much  coming  and  going  for  the  far  interior. 
Here  the  welcome  was  just  as  warm  as  at  Shanghai,  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Lewis  Jones  lavishing  love  and  care  on  the  dear 
traveller,  and  old  friends  of  other  Societies  gathering  round 
him  with  every  token  of  affection.  It  was  touching  to 
see  the  meeting  of  the  veteran  Dr.  Griffith  John,  still  in 
the  ripeness  of  his  strength,  with  one  whose  course  had  run 
parallel  with  his  own  for  nearly  fifty  years  in  China.  He 
seemed  to  remember  Mr.  Taylor's  love  of  music,  and  sang 
hymn  after  hymn  with  him  in  his  own  home,  with  all  the 
old  Welsh  fire.     Dr.  W.  A.  P.  Martin,  too,  came  over  from 


6o8         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Wu-chang  to  join  the  circle,  a  friend  of  very  early  Ningpo 
days,  the  missionary  life  of  the  three  together  amounting 
to  no  less  than  a  hundred  and  fifty-six  years.^ 

The  journey  to  Hankow  having  been  accomplished  in 
safety,  Mr.  Taylor  felt  encouraged  to  go  a  little  farther 
and  make  trial  of  the  new  railway  running  northward  to 
Peking.  If  he  could  only  reach  one  or  two  of  the  stations 
in  Ho-nan,  it  would  be  so  good  to  be  right  in  the  interior 
again  !  Thus  with  no  definite  plan,  but  looking  to  be  guided 
day  by  day,  he  set  out,  every  arrangement  being  made  with 
the  utmost  helpfulness  by  those  in  charge  of  the  Business 
Department.^ 

"  It  was  so  interesting  at  all  the  wayside  stations  to  notice 
the  pleasure  the  sight  of  dear  Father  called  forth,"  wrote  one  of 
liis  companions.  "  Whenever  he  appeared  at  the  window  or  on 
the  platform,  young  and  old  seemed  drawn  to  him,  and  looks  of 
kindliness  and  interest  made  even  the  dullest  faces  attractive. 
Every  one  seemed  anxious  to  show  him  attention.  The  Belgian 
officials  kindly  arranged  for  us  to  sleep  on  the  train  at  night,  to 
save  him  the  trouble  of  going  to  an  inn,  and  aU  along  the  way  he 
was  the  centre  of  smiling  interest. 

"  Once  before  on  just  such  a  May  morning  we  had  left  Hankow 
on  the  same  journey,  but  then  it  was  by  barrow,  and  many  a 
weary  day  lay  between  us  and  our  destination.  Now,  two  weeks 
of  strenuous  travelling  was  replaced  by  a  run  of  twenty-four  hours. 
It  was  a  wonderful  change,  and  as  we  glided  swiftly  over  the  iron 

1  Dr.  Martin,  who  reached  China  in  1850,  was  seventy-eight  years  of 
age  ;  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor,  who  arrived  in  1854,  was  seventy-three  ;  and 
Dr.  Griffith  John,  who  arrived  in  1855,  was  a  year  older.  They  were  photo- 
graphed together  at  Hankow  on  the  29th  of  April  1905. 

2  With  reference  to  the  Business  Department,  Mr.  W.  E.  Geil,  author 
of  A  Yankee  on  the  Yangtze,  wrote  to  Mr.  Stevenson  after  his  journey 
across  China  :  "  I  am  emphatically  endorsing  (in  my  book)  the  manage- 
ment of  the  missionary  merchandise  by  the  C.I.M.  Never  have  I  seen 
the  people's  money  made  to  go  so  far  as  under  your  wise  administration. 
As  to  my  own  accounts,  without  exception  they  were  promptly,  pohtely, 
properly  attended  to.  In  an  age  of  commerce  and  high-pressure  com- 
mercial enterprises  worked  by  vast  combinations,  it  is  good  to  find  equally 
wise  methods  applied  to  the  gifts  of  the  Church  in  this  economical  and 
wise  distribution.  ...  I  have  been  impressed  too  when  among  the  C.I.M. 
workers  by  a  spiritual  atmosphere  saturated  with  two  good  things,  kind- 
ness and  common  sense.  .  .  .  Your  missionaries  receive  very  small  pay, 
but  never  once  have  I  heard  complaint,  and  never  has  salary  been  men- 
tioned but  the  ready  reply  has  come,  '  It  is  sufficient.'  God  bless  the 
self-sacrificing  missionaries  in  Inland  China." 


W.  A.  P.  Martin,  D.D. 


THREE    CHINA    VETERANS. 

Griffith  John,  D.D.  J.  Hudson  Taylor,  M.R.C.S. 


To  face  page  608. 


HIS  WAY  IS  PERFECT  609 

road  we  felt  as  if  there  must  be  a  rude  awakening.  But  no,  it 
went  on  and  on,  fresh  surprises  meeting  us  at  every  point,  until 
only  six  hours  after  leaving  Hankow  we  steamed  through  the 
long  tunnel  under  the  mountains  between  Hu-peh  and  Ho-nan, 
and  found  ourselves  once  again  in  that  familiar  province." 

A  delightful  visit  at  Yen-cheng,  a  station  to  which  the 
railway  brought  them,  gave  Mr.  Taylor  the  opportunity 
of  seeing  something  of  the  work  of  AustraHan  members  of 
the  Mission.  In  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Lack  he  found  missionaries 
after  his  own  heart,  and  so  also  in  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Joyce  in 
the  neighbouring  station  to  which  he  ventured  on,  though 
it  involved  an  overland  journey.  A  night,  indeed,  had  to 
be  spent  in  an  inn,  which  was  an  outstanding  experience 
for  its  strangeness  and  yet  familiarity — just  an  ordinary 
wayside  inn  hke  so  many  hundreds  Mr.  Taylor  had  known 
in  earlier  days. 

'*  We  made  dear  Father  as  comfortable  as  we  could,"  con- 
tinued the  story  written  at  the  time,  "  and  though  he  was  very 
weary  he  seemed  to  enjoy  the  Chinese  supper  and  arrangements, 
and  was  full  of  interest  in  the  people  who  thronged  about  us 
listening  to  the  Gospel.  After  he  had  gone  to  rest  a  touching 
little  incident  happened,  which  we  did  not  hear  of  until 
morning. 

"  It  was  between  ten  and  eleven  at  night,  and  we  were  all 
soundly  sleeping,  when  Mr,  Joyce,  who  had  come  to  meet  us,  was 
awakened  by  some  one  calling  him  outside  the  window.  It 
proved  to  be  one  of  his  own  church  members,  who  had  heard  in 
his  village  not  far  away  of  our  being  in  the  inn  that  night,  and 
had  come  over  after  his  long  day's  work  to  pay  his  respects  to  the 
Venerable  Chief  Pastor.  Mr.  Joyce  explained  that  Mr.  Taylor 
was  now  sleeping ;  that  the  journey  had  tired  him  very  much, 
and  that  it  would  hardly  do  to  awaken  him. 

"  '  Never  mind,  never  mind,'  said  the  visitor,  though  much 
disappointed.  And  then,  fumbhng  with  something  he  was 
carrying,  he  pushed  a  little  bundle  through  the  paper  window. 

"  '  Why,  what  is  this  ?  '  asked  Mr.  Joyce. 

"  '  Oh,  nothing  !  It  is  only  my  poor  little  intention.  It  is  my 
duty  to  provide  for  the  Venerable  Pastor  while  he  is  near  our 
village.' 

"  It  was  two  hundred  cash,  money  the  dear  man  had  brought 
for  our  expenses  at  the  inn.  And  when  he  had  given  it  he  sUpped 
away,  leaving  us  all  to  rest.     We  were  so  sorry  in  the  morning  not 

2  R 


6io         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

to  have  seen  him  ;  but  on  Sunday  he  came  in  to  the  services  and 
Father  was  able  to  thank  him  in  person." 

The  Sunday  at  Hiang-cheng  was  full  of  interest ;  and 
as  heavy  rains  came  on,  an  easier  method  of  returning  to 
the  railway  was  suggested.  Hour  by  hour  the  river  rose 
behind  the  Mission-house,  until  with  a  good  current  boats 
were  going  down  stream  cheerily.  On  one  of  these,  in 
company  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Joyce  and  their  children  who 
needed  change,  the  journey  was  made,  and  instead  of 
parting  when  the  railway  was  reached  Mr.  Taylor  decided 
to  go  right  on  to  a  station  where  his  daughter  (Mrs. 
Coulthard)  had  been  the  first  lady  missionary.  Sunday 
the  14th  of  May  was  spent  at  this  important  place,  and 
there  Mr.  Taylor  preached  a  sermon  two  miles  long,  which 
would  never  be  forgotten.  The  home  of  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Brock,  in  which  Mr.  Taylor's  party  were  entertained,  was 
at  a  considerable  distance  from  Mr.  Shearer's  compound, 
where  the  principal  services  were  held,  and  the  question 
arose  as  to  how  Mr.  Taylor  was  to  cross  the  city  that  hot 
summer  morning.  A  beautiful  sedan-chair  with  eight 
bearers  had  been  sent  over  from  a  neighbouring  station, 
in  the  hope  that  he  might  be  persuaded  to  go  over  on 
Monday  to  visit  the  ladies  working  there.  It  would  have 
been  easy  to  let  four  of  the  men  carry  him  through  the 
crowded  streets  to  the  meeting.  But  no,  Mr.  Taylor  would 
not  hear  of  it !  Not  to  set  such  an  example  had  he  come 
up  to  Ho-nan.  If  he  went  to  church  at  all,  he  would  walk  ; 
and  walk  he  did,  the  whole  way  there  and  back.  One  of 
his  companions  carried  a  folding  chair,  and  when  Mr.  Taylor 
was  too  tired  to  go  further  he  just  sat  down  and  rested. 

"  '  Tsa  puh  k'iah  ko  kiao  lai  P '  '  Why  don't  you  bring  a 
sedan-chair  ?  '  exclaimed  the  people  who  gathered  in  crowds 
about  him  ;  which  gave  an  opportunity  for  explaining  that 
Sunday  was  God's  day  of  rest,  and  that  it  was  His  will  that  men 
should  keep  it  holy.  Great  was  the  astonishment  with  which 
onlookers  heard  that  there  was,  even  then,  a  sedan-chair  with 
bearers  waiting  at  the  Mission-house,  but  that  the  white-haired 
missionary  would  not  use  it,  on  this  account.  It  was  a  theme 
for  several  Httle  discourses  by  the  way,  and  went  further  to 


HIS  WAY  IS  PERFECT  6ii 

impress   the   meaning   and   duty   of   Sabbath-keeping   on   the 
Christians  than  many  a  sermon  could  have  done." 

And  so,  just  a  step  at  a  time,  the  way  opened  and  Mr. 
Taylor  was  led  on  until  he  had  visited  five  of  the  centres 
in  Ho-nan,  meeting  with  the  missionaries  from  as  many 
others.  To  his  companions  the  latter  part  of  the  journey 
was  of  special  interest,  as  the  two  stations  to  which  he 
travelled  by  sedan  they  had  had  a  part  in  opening.  Oh, 
that  familiar  road — how  often  they  had  traversed  it  in 
all  weathers  !  Every  tree  and  house  looked  just  as  they 
had  seen  them  scores  of  times,  until  they  neared  the  first 
of  the  two  cities  (Chen-chow-fu)  and  there  something 
unusual  arrested  their  attention. 

Right  in  front  of  us  on  the  main  highway  a  crowd  of  men  and 
bo3^s  were  gathered  near  a  table,  and  as  they  stood  there  in  the 
sunlight,  several  bright  gleaming  objects  held  up  in  their  hands 
puzzled  us  not  a  Httle.  They  looked  like  the  instruments  of  a 
brass  band  :  but  surely  that  could  hardly  be  ?  Then  in  a  moment 
it  flashed  upon  us — they  were  the  Christians  from  Chen-chow-fu 
who  had  come  out  to  meet  us.  The  table  we  now  saw  was  spread 
with  refreshments  for  dear  Father  on  his  journey.  The  glittering 
objects  shining  in  the  sun  were  four  large  golden  characters  held 
up  to  greet  him — the  motto  to  be  fixed  on  a  banner  they  were 
probably  preparing  to  present  when  he  arrived. 

And  so  it  proved.  For  in  a  few  minutes  they  were  aU  about 
us,  the  love  and  enthusiasm  of  their  welcome  defying  description. 
The  beautiful  characters,  Nui-ti  en-ren,  were  their  chosen  greet- 
ing to  dear  Father — literally  "  Inland  China's  Grace-man,"  or 
"  Benefactor  of  Inland  China." 

A  little  farther  on  a  group  of  women  Christians  met  us,  and 
when  we  reached  the  house  inside  the  city  we  found  the  whole 
courtyard  covered  in,  with  a  broad  platform  arranged  at  one  end, 
draped  in  red,  and  welcome  written  large  on  everything.  When 
the  red  satin  banner  was  hung  up  over  the  platform,  and  the 
crowd  of  smiling,  happy,  hearty  friends  trooped  in  for  the  after- 
noon meeting,  filling  every  comer  to  overflowing,  it  was  a 
beautiful  sight,  not  soon  to  be  forgotten. 

Oh,  the  happy  days  spent  there,  how  they  live  in  our  memory  ! 
Dear  Father  was  much  among  the  Christians,  and  spoke  to  them 
once  or  twice  by  interpretation.  At  a  Christian  Endeavour  meet- 
ing we  were  all  presented  with  silver  badges,  and  enrolled  as 
members  of  the  Chen-chow  branch.     Father  was  very  pleased 


6i2         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

with  the  way  in  which  it  was  done,  and  wore  the  sign  of  member- 
ship on  his  coat  right  on  to  the  end. 

At  Tai-kang,  the  last  station  visited,  the  same  love  and  lavish 
kindness  were  displayed.  Some  of  the  Christians  hired  a  cart 
and  came  to  Chen-chow,  a  whole  day's  journey,  to  meet  us.  On 
the  way  they  passed  a  letter-carrier,  who  said  that  Father  was 
not  well  and  that  he  would  have  to  turn  back  without  visiting 
their  city.  Upon  this  the  Tai-kang  friends  were  greatly  dis- 
tressed, and  stopped  in  the  middle  of  the  road  to  pray  that  the 
Lord  would  strengthen  him  and  help  him  to  undertake  the 
journey. 

"  Oh,  Lord,  what  have  we  done,"  they  said,  "  that  the  Vener- 
able Pastor  should  come  thousands  of  miles  from  the  other  side 
of  the  world,  and  after  months  of  travelling  stop  short  just  one 
day's  journey  from  our  city  ?  Oh,  Lord,  we  too  are  his  little 
children  I     Help  him  to  come  on  and  visit  us." 

Great  was  their  joy  a  few  hours  later,  when  they  reached 
Chen-chow,  to  find  a  baptismal  service  in  progress,  and  Father 
taking  part  and  addressing  the  newly  received  believers,  and  to 
hear  that  he  had  already  made  up  his  mind  to  go  on  to  Tai-kang 
next  day.  What  a  journey  that  was,  in  their  escort !  Kuo 
Lao-siang,  a  very  Greatheart,  bore  us  along  in  triumph  ;  insisted 
on  paying  himself  all  expenses  by  the  way,  and  delighted  us  hour 
after  hour  by  the  story  of  all  the  Lord  had  done  for  the  Tai-kang 
Church  since  we  left  it  seven  years  ago,  and  especially  during  the 
troubles  of  1900. 

Outside  the  city  gate  the  Christians  met  us,  with  Mr.  Ford 
and  Mr.  Bird,  their  missionaries.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Joyce  had 
arrived  already,  so  we  were  a  large  party — old  friends  and  fellow- 
workers,  reunited  after  long  years.  With  hearts  full  of  thankful- 
ness we  recalled  early  experiences,  hopes,  and  prayers  ;  how  the 
Lord  brought  us  through  the  terrible  riot  of  1896,  and  how  He 
had  blessed  and  increased  the  work  ever  since. 

Time  fails  to  tell  further  of  those  happy  days  at  Tai-kang  ; 
of  the  long  talks  and  meetings  with  the  Christians,  the  beautiful 
banner  they  too  presented  to  dear  Father  ;  the  return  journey  all 
the  way  to  Yen-cheng  and  much  besides.  One  meeting  at  Chow- 
kia-kow,  however,  must  be  mentioned.  We  found  ourselves 
there  for  a  Sunday,  and  as  it  happened  for  Sunday  the  21st  of  May. 
The  Christians  came  to  know  it  was  Father's  birthday,  and  to  our 
surprise  prepared  a  beautiful  scarlet  satin  banner  to  present  to 
him,  bearing  the  inscription,  "  0  man  greatly  beloved."  He  was 
not  well  enough  to  walk  to  church  that  day,  so  they  all  gathered 
at  Mr.  Brock's  for  an  afternoon  meeting.  Numbers  had  come  in 
from  the  country  and  from  distant  out-stations,  a  dozen  or  more 


HIS  WAY  IS  PERFECT  613 

of  the  leading  men  being  present  from  all  over  the  district.  One 
after  another  they  rose  and  made  little  addresses  to  dear  Father, 
some  of  them  very  heart-moving.  He  spoke  to  them  too  for  a 
few  minutes. 

It  was  Friday  the  26th  of  May  when  the  party  reached 
Hankow  once  more,  the  thirty-ninth  anniversary  of  the 
sailing  of  the  Lammermuir.  In  the  train  on  the  way  down 
they  had  had  precious  times  of  prayer,  joined  by  Miss  af 
Sandeberg,  whose  relatives  had  been  the  first  to  show  Mr. 
Taylor  hospitality  in  Sweden.  At  Hankow  Dr.  Whitfield 
Guinness,  among  others,  was  waiting  to  meet  them,  and  with 
thankfulness  for  the  three  and  a  half  weeks  in  Ho-nan  they 
sought  renewed  strength  from  the  Lord  and  guidance  as 
to  the  next  stage  of  their  journey. 

And  oh,  how  tender  was  His  watchful  care  over  every  step  of 
the  way  that  remained  !  Only  eight  days  were  left  of  dear 
Father's  earthly  pilgrimage,  five  in  May  and  three  in  June — and 
then  the  "  far  more  exceeding  and  eternal  weight  of  glory."  If 
only  we  had  known  !     But  He  knew  who  was  planning  all. 

After  a  quiet  Sunday  in  Hankow,  Mr.  Taylor  decided 
to  go  on  by  steamer  to  Chang-sha,  capital  of  the  province 
of  Hu-nan,  which  he  had  never  visited.  First  of  the  far 
inland  provinces  the  Mission  had  attempted  to  enter,  it 
had  been  the  last  in  which  settled  residence  had  been 
obtained,  and  for  more  than  thirty  years  Mr.  Taylor  had 
borne  it  specially  upon  his  heart  in  prayer.  Only  since 
the  troubles  of  1900  had  it  been  fully  opened,  and  he  greatly 
desired  to  see  the  work  of  Dr.  Keller  and  others  in  the 
capital,  described  with  graphic  interest  by  Dr.  Harlan  Beach 
in  a  recent  number  of  China's  Millions.  Strangely  enough, 
when  all  arrangements  had  been  made  and  the  berths  taken, 
unlocked  -  for  circumstances  prevented  their  travelling 
among  the  native  passengers  as  Mr.  Taylor  wished. 

It  was  the  last,  last  journey  dear  Father  was  to  take  in  China  ; 
the  days  were  very  hot  and  the  nights  trying,  and  it  was  to  be 
made  as  cool  and  comfortable  for  him  as  possible.  Nothing 
would  have  persuaded  him  to  travel  foreign  passage  had  the  less 
expensive  accommodation  been  available,  but  the  matter  was 
taken  out  of  our  hands.     The  Japanese  steamer  for  which  we  were 


6i4         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

waiting  ran  aground  in  the  Tong-ting  lake,  and  a  wire  was  re- 
ceived in  Hankow  saying  it  was  quite  uncertain  as  to  when  she 
would  arrive.  We  were  expected  at  Ch'ang-sha  for  Sunday,  and 
the  only  thing  to  do  was  to  take  the  China  Navigation  Company's 
steamer  sailing  that  same  evening,  and  even  then  waiting  off 
shore.  But  it  had  to  be  by  saloon  cabin,  as  they  do  not  issue 
tickets  to  foreigners  travelling  Chinese  passage.  Thus  when  we 
went  on  board  it  was  to  find  a  beautiful  new  boat,  the  best  on 
the  upper  river,  the  kindest  of  captains  and  officers,  and  the 
entire  saloon  accommodation  at  our  disposal.  We  were  the  only 
foreigners  on  board,  and  under  the  circumstances  nothing  could 
have  been  more  deHghtful. 

Those  two  days  with  Captain  Hunter  on  the  s.s.  Shasi  could 
hardly  have  been  more  perfect.  Dear  Father  was  just  himself, 
and  though  the  weather  was  intensely  hot  he  enjoyed  the  cool 
saloon,  the  comfortable  chairs  on  deck,  and  the  fresh  breezes.  It 
meant  much  to  him  to  have  us  all  with  him  and  to  see  the  friend- 
ship between  the  younger  members  of  our  party  deepening,^  and 
his  joy  in  the  answer  to  the  prayers  of  a  Ufe-time  in  the  opening 
of  China's  last  unreached  province  to  the  Gospel  was  very  great. 

As  they  crossed  the  far-reaching  lake  and  steamed  up 
the  river,  passing  well-built  cities,  beautiful  pagodas  and 
temples,  rich  plains  covered  with  ripening  crops,  and  noble 
mountain  ranges  near  and  distant,  they  could  not  but  think 
of  all  the  toil  and  prayer  of  years  gone  by,  of  buried  Hves 
and  dauntless  faith,  richly  rewarded  at  last  in  the  change 
that  was  coming  over  the  attitude  of  the  people.  Until 
eight  or  nine  years  previously  there  had  not  been  one  Pro- 
testant missionary  settled  in  the  province.  None  had 
been  able  to  gain  a  footing.  No  fewer  than  a  hundred 
and  eleven  missionaries  were  to  be  found  there  now,  con- 
nected with  thirteen  societies,  working  in  seventeen  central 
stations  and  aided  by  a  strong  band  of  Chinese  helpers. 

It  was  Thursday  afternoon  the  first  of  June  when  we  reached 
the  capital  (Chang-sha)  and  were  welcomed  by  our  dear  friends 
Dr.  and  Mrs.  Keller  and  Dr.  Barrie.  Twenty  minutes  in  chairs 
brought  us  to  the  Mission-house,  in  which  we  felt  quite  at  home 
already,  having  carefully  studied  Dr.  Harlan  Beach's  ground-plan 
and  article.  Of  the  two  days  that  followed,  how  can  I  v/rite  ? 
They  were  so  calm  and  peaceful,  so  full  of  interest  and  encourage- 

^  Miss  J.  af  Sandeberg  and  Dr.  Whitfield  Guinness  were  engaged  a 
few  days  later 


HIS  WAY  IS  PERFECT  615 

ment,  so  rich  in  love  and  sympathy  and  the  tender  care  that 
surrounded  our  beloved  one,  that  our  hearts  overflow  on  every 
remembrance  of  the  Lord's  goodness  up  to  the  very  end. 

Friday  was  a  quiet,  restful  day.  It  rained  all  the  morning 
and  we  could  not  go  out.  After  lunch,  chairs  were  called  and  we 
visited  the  T'ien  Sin  Koh,  a  lofty  building  on  the  highest  point  of 
the  city  wall.  Father  was  dehghted  with  the  wonderful  view  of 
mountains,  plain,  and  river,  surrounding  the  city  outspread  at  our 
feet.  He  climbed  to  the  second  story  without  being  overtired, 
and  afterwards  went  to  see  the  site  for  the  new  hospital — 
several  acres  of  land  in  a  good  situation  that  the  Governor  hopes 
to  give  for  the  work  of  our  medical  mission. 

On  Saturday,  Father  did  not  come  down  to  breakfast,  but  was 
dressed  and  reading  when  we  carried  up  his  tray.  He  was  to 
speak  to  the  Chinese  friends  that  morning,  so  as  soon  as  the  daily 
service  was  concluded  he  went  to  the  Chapel  and  said  a  little 
through  interpretation.  They  were  deeply  interested  in  seeing 
him,  many  of  them  having  just  read  the  Retrospect  translated  by 
Mr.  Bailer  into  Chinese.  Mr.  Li  the  evangeUst  responded,  ex- 
pressing the  love  and  joy  with  which  they  welcomed  him  to 
Chang-sha. 

That  afternoon  a  reception  had  been  arranged  to  give 
all  the  missionaries  in  the  city  an  opportunity  of  meeting 
Mr.  Taylor,  and  before  the  time  appointed  he  came  down 
seasonably  dressed  in  a  suit  of  Shantung  silk. 

It  was  cool  and  pleasant  in  the  little  garden  on  to  which  the 
sitting-room  opened,  and  tea  was  served  on  the  lawn,  surrounded 
by  trees  and  flowers.  Father  went  out  and  sat  in  the  midst  of  the 
guests  for  an  hour  or  more,  evidently  enjoying  the  quiet,  happy 
time,  and  interested  in  the  photographs  that  were  being  taken. 

After  all  had  left,  Howard  persuaded  him  to  go  upstairs,  and 
as  we  were  busy  sending  our  things  to  the  steamer  (we  were  to 
walk  down  ourselves  on  Sunday  evening  after  the  service)  Dr. 
Barrie  remained  with  him  for  half  an  hour.  It  was  a  still  evening, 
and  while  they  were  talking  Father  rose  and  crossed  the  room 
to  fetch  two  fans.  One  of  these  he  handed  to  Dr.  Barrie,  who 
exclaimed  : 

"  Oh,  why  did  you  not  let  me  bring  them  ?  " 

"  I  wanted  to  get  you  one,"  was  the  reply,  in  a  tone  which 
deeply  touched  his  companion. 

Speaking  of  the  privilege  of  bringing  everything  to  God  in 
prayer.  Dr.  Barrie  said  that  he  was  sometimes  hindered  by  the 
feeling  that  many  things  were  too  small,  really,  to  pray  about. 


6i6         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

Father's  answer  was  that  he  did  not  know  anything  about  it — 
about  such  a  distinction,  probably.     Then  he  added  : 

*'  There  is  nothing  small,  and  there  is  nothing  great :  only  God 
is  great,  and  we  should  trust  Him  fully." 

When  the  evening  meal  was  ready  Mr.  Taylor  did  not 
feel  inclined  to  come  down,  and  a  little  later  he  was  pre- 
paring to  go  to  rest  when  his  son  brought  him  his  supper. 
While  waiting  for  him  to  be  comfortably  settled,  his 
daughter-in-law  spent  a  few  minutes  alone  on  the  little 
roof-platform  which  is  such  a  pleasant  addition  to  many 
Chang-sha  houses. 

Twilight  had  fallen  then,  and  darkness  veiled  the  distant 
mountains  and  river.  Here  and  there  a  few  glimmering  hghts 
dotted  the  vast  expanse  of  grey-roofed  city.  All  was  silent  under 
the  starlit  sky.  Enjoying  the  cool  and  quietness  I  stood  alone 
awhile,  thinking  of  Father.  But  oh,  how  little  one  realised  what 
was  happening  even  then,  or  dreamed  that  in  less  than  one  half- 
hour  our  loved  one  would  be  with  the  Lord  !  Was  the  golden 
gate  already  swinging  back  on  its  hinges  ?  Were  the  hosts  of 
welcoming  angels  gathering  to  receive  his  spirit  ?  Had  the 
Master  Himself  arisen  to  greet  His  faithful  friend  and  servant  ? 
What  was  happening,  oh,  what  was  happening,  even  then,  over 
the  sleeping  city  ? 

Knowing  nothing,  realising  nothing,  I  went  down.  Dear 
Father  was  in  bed,  the  lamp  burning  on  the  chair  beside  him,  and 
he  was  leaning  over  it  with  his  pocket-book  lying  open  and  the 
home  letters  it  contained  spread  out  as  he  loved  to  have  them. 
I  drew  the  pillow  up  more  comfortably  under  his  head,  and  sat 
down  on  a  low  chair  close  beside  him.  As  he  said  nothing,  I 
began  talking  a  little  about  the  pictures  in  the  Missionary  Review 
lying  open  on  the  bed.  Howard  left  the  room  to  fetch  something 
that  had  been  forgotten  for  supper,  and  I  was  just  in  the  middle 
of  a  sentence  when  dear  Father  turned  his  head  quickly  and  gave 
a  little  gasp.  I  looked  up,  thinking  he  was  going  to  sneeze. 
But  another  came,  then  another  !  He  gave  no  cry  and  said  no 
word.  He  was  not  choking  or  distressed  for  breath.  He  did 
not  look  at  me  or  seem  conscious  of  anything. 

I  ran  to  the  door  and  called  Howard,  but  before  he  could 
reach  the  bedside  it  was  evident  that  the  end  had  come.  I  ran 
back  to  call  Dr.  Keller,  who  was  just  at  the  foot  of  the  stairs. 
In  less  time  than  it  takes  to  write  it  he  was  with  us,  but  only  to 
see  dear  Father  draw  his  last  breath.  It  was  not  death — but  the 
glad,  swift  entry  upon  life  immortal. 


HIS  WAY  IS  PERFECT  617 

"  My  father,  my  father,  the  chariots  of  Israel  and  the  horse- 
men thereof  !  " 

And  oh,  the  look  of  rest  and  calm  that  came  over  the  dear 
face  was  wonderful !  The  weight  of  years  seemed  to  pass  away 
in  a  few  moments.  The  weary  lines  vanished.  He  looked  Hke  a 
child  quietly  sleeping,  and  the  very  room  seemed  full  of  unutter- 
able peace. 

•  •••••• 

Tenderly  we  laid  him  down,  too  surprised  and  thankful  to 
reahse  for  the  moment  our  great  loss.  There  was  nothing  more 
to  be  done.  The  precious  service  of  months  was  ended.  Mr. 
Li  and  other  Chinese  friends  went  out  to  make  arrangements, 
but  we  could  hardly  bring  ourselves  to  leave  that  quiet  room. 
All  the  house  was  still,  hallowed  by  a  serenity  and  sweetness  that 
hardly  seemed  of  earth.  Though  he  was  gone,  a  wonderful  love 
and  tenderness  seemed  still  to  draw  us  to  his  side.  Oh,  the 
comfort  of  seeing  him  so  utterly  rested.  Dear,  dear  Father,  all 
the  weariness  over,  all  the  joumejdngs  ended — safe  home,  safe 
home  at  last  ! 

One  by  one  or  in  Httle  groups  the  friends  who  were  in  the 
house  and  the  dear  native  Christians  gathered  round  his  bed.  All 
were  so  impressed  with  the  calm,  peaceful  look  that  hngered  on 
his  face,  and  many  touching  things  were  said,  showing  that  even 
in  these  short  days  the  sweetness  and  simplicity  of  his  life  had 
won  their  hearts. 

"  Oh  Si-mu,"  whispered  one  dear  woman  as  she  left  the  room, 
"  ts'ien  ts'ien  wan-wan-tih  t'ien-shi  tsieh  t'a  liao !  "  (thousands 
and  myriads  of  angels  have  welcomed  him) — and  in  a  flash  one 
almost  seemed  to  see  it. 

Last  of  all  a  dear  young  evangelist  and  his  wife,  a  bride  of 
eighteen,  came  up.  They  had  journeyed  in  from  an  out-station 
on  purpose  to  meet  us  all,  and  especially  Father,  whose  Retrospect 
they  had  been  reading.  Arriving  in  the  afternoon  while  tea  was 
going  on,  they  did  not  like  to  ask  to  see  him,  and  when  the  guests 
had  left  he  was  tired.  So  they  put  it  off  till  morning,  as  we  were 
to  spend  Sunday  with  them  all.  And  then,  suddenly,  they  heard 
of  his  departure  to  be  with  the  Lord, 

Full  of  sorrow,  they  sent  in  to  ask  if  they  might  come  and 
look  upon  his  face.  Of  course  we  welcomed  them,  teUing  them 
all  that  had  happened  and  how  grieved  we  were  that  they  had  not 
seen  him  earlier  in  the  day.  Together  they  stood  beside  the  bed 
in  silence,  until  the  young  man  said  : 

"  Do  you  think  that  I  might  touch  his  hand  ?  " 

Then  he  bent  over  him,  took  one  of  Father's  hands  in  his  and 
stroked  it  tenderly,  while  to  our  surprise  he  began  to  talk  to  him 


6i8         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

just  as  if  he  could  hear.  He  seemed  to  forget  us  and  everything 
else  in  a  great  longing  just  to  reach  the  one  who  still  seemed  near, 
and  make  him  feel  his  love  and  gratitude. 

"  Lao  Muh-si,  Lao  Muh-st,"  he  said  so  tenderly  (Dear  and 
Venerable  Pastor),  "  we  truly  love  you.  We  have  come  to-day 
to  see  you.  We  longed  to  look  into  your  face.  We  too  are  your 
little  children — Lao  Muh-si,  Lao  Muh-si.  You  opened  for  us  the 
road,  the  road  to  heaven.  You  loved  us  and  prayed  for  us  long 
years.     We  came  to-day  to  look  upon  your  face. 

"  You  look  so  happy,  so  peaceful !  You  are  smiling.  Your 
face  is  quiet  and  pleased.  You  cannot  speak  to  us  to-night. 
We  do  not  want  to  bring  you  back  :  but  we  will  follow  you. 
We  shall  come  to  you,  Lao  Muh-si.  You  will  welcome  us  by 
and  by." 

And  all  the  time  he  held  his  hand,  bending  over  him  and 
stroking  it  gently,  his  young  wife  standing  by. 

Downstairs,  meanwhile,  another  touching  scene  was  taking 
place.  Mr.  Li  and  others  who  had  been  out  to  make  arrangements 
returned,  bringing  a  coffin  and  bearers  and  everything  necessary 
for  the  last  journey.  They  had  hoped  when  first  they  learned 
of  dear  Father's  Home-call  that  he  would  be  buried  in  Hu-nan, 
and  had  rejoiced  to  think  that  in  this  way  they  might  keep  him 
among  them  still.  But  when  it  was  explained  that  we  must 
leave  at  once  for  Chin-kiang,  as  his  family  grave  was  there,  and 
he  had  always  wished  to  be  laid  beside  his  loved  ones  should  he 
die  in  China,  they  set  aside  their  own  desire  and  did  all  they 
could  to  forward  our  departure. 

When  everything  had  been  brought  to  the  house  they  sent 
word  to  my  husband  asking  if  they  might  speak  with  him.  He 
went  at  once,  and  was  touched  by  the  many  evidences  of  their 
thought  and  care.  Then,  gathering  round  him,  they  said  that 
they  had  wished  to  obtam  a  more  beautiful  coffin,  but  had  been 
obliged  to  be  satisfied  with  the  best  they  could  find  ready-made  ; 
that  he  need  not  ask  the  price,  for  it  was  their  gift,  the  gift  of  the 
church  ;  for  if  they  could  not  be  allowed  to  keep  the  Venerable 
Chief  Pastor  in  Hu-nan,  they  must  at  any  rate  do  everything  for 
him  at  their  own  expense. 

It  was  a  great  surprise,  but  they  would  take  no  denial.  Had 
not  the  Lord  brought  their  beloved  father  in  the  faith  to  Chang- 
sha,  and  permitted  them  to  look  upon  his  face  ?  From  their 
midst  had  he  not  been  translated  ?  Hu-nan  Christians  had  been 
the  last  to  hear  his  voice,  to  receive  his  blessing.  Theirs  must  be 
the  privilege  of  providing  for  his  last  needs. 

Yes,  it  was  beautiful  and  right.  It  meant  a  large  sum  to 
them,  and  they  would  feel  it.     But  the  joy  of  sacrifice  was  in 


HIS  WAY  IS  PERFECT  619 

their  hearts,  and  we  could  not  but  stand  aside  and  let  them  do  as 
they  would.  So  Hu-nan  hands  prepared  his  last  resting-place, 
Hu-nan  hearts  planned  all  with  loving  care — one  little  company 
of  the  great  multitude  his  life  had  blessed.  Not  in  vain,  ah,  not 
in  vain  the  faith  and  toil  and  suffering,  the  ceaseless  prayer  and 
soul-travail  of  fifty  years.  Inland  China  open  everywhere  to  the 
Gospel  proclaims  the  faithfulness  of  God,  and  these  strong 
Hu-nan  men  with  hearts  as  tender  as  children's,  these  women 
with  tear-dimmed  eyes  helping  in  the  last  ministries  of  love, 
attest  the  gratitude  of  a  redeemed  and  blood-washed  company 
no  man  can  number. 

By  the  mighty  river  at  Chin-kiang  they  laid  him,  where 
it  rolls  its  waters  two  miles  wide  toward  the  sea.  Much 
might  be  said  of  the  love  and  veneration  shown  to  his 
memory ;  of  Memorial  Services  in  Shanghai,  London,  and 
elsewhere  ;  of  eulogies  in  the  public  press  ;  of  sympathetic 
resolutions  passed  by  missionary  and  other  societies,  and 
of  personal  letters  from  high  and  low  in  many  lands.  From 
the  striking  tribute  of  a  High  Church  Bishop  in  The  Guardian 
to  the  tender  reminiscences  of  fellow-workers,  many  were 
the  written  and  spoken  words  that  showed  him  to  have 
been  not  only  **  the  heart-beat  felt  throughout  the  Mission," 
but  a  vital  force  of  life  and  love  in  every  part,  one  might 
almost  say,  of  the  body  of  Christ.  But  the  voices  that 
linger  longest  are  those  he  would  have  loved  the  best — the 
voices  of  Chinese  children  singing  sweet  hymns  of  praise 
as  they  laid  their  little  offerings  of  flowers  upon  his  resting- 
place. 

'*  Thus  one  by  one  the  stars  that  are  to  shine  for  ever 
in  God's  firmament  appear  in  their  celestial  places,  and- 
the  children  of  the  Kingdom  enter  upon  the  blessedness  of 
their  Father's  house  not  made  with  hands." 


CHAPTER  XLII 

PRAYERS  YET  TO   BE   ANSWERED 

[Adoniram  Judson,  the  Apostle  of  Burma,  less  than  two 
weeks  before  his  death,  heard  of  a  definite  answer  to  prayers 
he  had  offered  with  great  earnestness  long  years  before, 
and  which  had  seemed  to  be  unheard.  His  heart  had  been 
deeply  burdened  about  the  Jewish  people — so  much  so 
that  he  had  even  sought  to  found  a  mission  in  Palestine  for 
their  benefit — but  nothing  came  of  it.  And  then,  only  a 
few  days  before  he  passed  away,  he  learned  from  a  daily 
paper  of  the  conversion  of  a  number  of  Jews  in  Trebizond 
through  a  tract  concerning  his  own  life-work,  and  that 
they  had  sent  to  Constantinople  asking  for  a  Christian 
teacher.  With  tears  in  his  eyes  the  veteran  missionary 
exclaimed  : 

I  never  was  deeply  interested  in  any  object,  I  never  prayed 
sincerely  and  earnestly  for  anything,  but  it  came.  At  some 
time,  no  matter  how  distant  a  day,  somehow,  in  some  shape, 
probably  the  last  I  should  have  devised,  it  came.  And  yet  I 
have  always  had  so  httle  faith.     May  God  forgive  me  .  .  .  and 

y  cleanse  the  sin  of  unbelief  from  my  heart. 

Prayers  yet  to  be  answered — how  rich  the  inheritance 
Hudson  Taylor  left  to  the  land  he  loved,  to  the  Church  of 
God  in  China  for  which  his  life  was  given  !  In  one  sense 
the  prayers  of  that  life-time  had  indeed  been  answered. 

He  sowed  with  tears : 
He  laboured,  suffered,  strove  for  one  great  field, 
And  saw  it  yield, 

His  every  hope  of  half  a  hundred  years.* 

*  From  an  In  Memoriam  poem  by  his  niece.  Miss  Marian  Fishe,  now 
Mrs.  J.  L.  Rowe. 

620 


PRAYERS  YET  TO  BE  ANSWERED     621 

But  in  another  sense  do  not  those  prayers  lie  beyond  us  yet, 
marking  out  wide  possessions  upon  which  the  foot  of  faith 
has  trodden,  possessions  still  to  be  possessed  ? 

Nothing  could  have  been  more  definite  than  Mr.  Taylor's 
own  conviction  as  to  the  thoughts  that  had  come  to  him 
in  1889.  Once  he  had  seen  it  he  could  never  doubt  again 
the  Master's  will  and  purpose  that  "  every  creature  "  in 
China  should  hear  the  glad  tidings  of  salvation.  Through 
all  the  years  that  followed,  though  hindered  again  and  again, 
and  postponed  for  a  time  by  the  Boxer  crisis,  his  purpose 
never  wavered. 

"  This  work  will  not  be  done  without  crucifixion,"  he  said 
in  the  C.I.M.  Conference  of  May  1890,  "  without  consecration 
that  is  prepared  at  any  cost  to  carry  out  the  Master's  command. 
But,  given  that,  I  believe  in  my  inmost  soul  that  it  will  he  done. 
If  ever  in  my  life  I  was  conscious  of  being  led  of  God,  it  was  in 
the  writing  and  publication  of  those  papers,  the  first  of  which 
came  out  in  November  of  last  year." 

The  time  had  not  come  for  it  then,  as  events  were  to 
prove,  but  who  shall  say  that  the  time  has  not  come  for 
it  now  ?  Many  are  the  indications  that  these  are  the  lines 
on  which  the  Spirit  of  God  is  working.  A  recent  survey 
of  missionary  operations  in  China  during  the  last  ten  years 
reveals  nothing  more  clearly  than  the  new  spirit  of  evangel- 
ism which  is  taking  hold  of  the  Chinese  Church.  In  the 
province  of  Ho-nan,  for  example,  with  its  twenty-five 
millions — the  province  in  which  Mr.  Taylor  spent  more 
than  half  his  last  brief  visit  to  China — all  the  Societies  and 
churches  are  at  the  present  moment  united  in  an  effort 
to  carry  the  Gospel  to  every  home  and  "  every  creature  " 
within  a  period  of  five  years.  At  the  beginning  of  1917 
this  forward  movement  was  entered  upon,  its  definite  aim 
being  "  to  enlist  the  co-operation  of  every  Christian  in 
Ho-nan  and  bring  the  Gospel  to  the  ears  of  every  non- 
Christian  in  the  province  "  within  the  time  agreed  upon. 
And  this  effort,  which  will  command  the  prayerful  sym- 
pathy of  all  who  long  for  the  coming  and  kingdom  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  is  but  part  of   the  larger  movement 


622         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

which  in  varying  degrees  is  making  itself  felt  throughout 
China. ^ 

Equally  encouraging  are  the  tidings  that  come  from 
Hu-nan,  where  the  Floating  Bible  School  is  proving  an 
effective  method  of  developing  soul-winners.  Started  by 
Dr.  Keller,  from  whose  home  in  Chang-sha  Mr.  Hudson 
Taylor  had  passed  to  his  reward,  this  remarkable  movement 
has  for  its  aim  "  the  speedy  and  thorough  evangehsation 
of  the  twenty-two  miUions  "  of  that  province  by  means 
of  itinerant  bands  labouring  in  connection  with  all  the 
Societies.  Taking  advantage  of  the  waterways  which 
abound,  the  students  of  the  Bible  School — who  must  be 
men  of  a  living  faith  in  Christ  and  a  serious  call  to  His 
service — spend  most  of  the  year  with  a  trained  Chinese 
leader,  visited  by  their  missionary  superintendents,  on  a 
boat  large  enough  to  accommodate  twelve  or  more.^  On 
the  invitation  of  the  missionary  in  charge  they  go  to  a  given 

»  On  this  subject  the  China  Mission  Year-Book  (191 7)  gives  definite 
and  most  encouraging  testimony.  Following  the  great  evangelistic 
meetings  among  students  held  by  Dr.  John  R.  Mott  and  Mr.  Sherwood 
Eddy  (191 3  and  191 5),  which  evoked  a  response  undreamed  of  before 
among  the  educated  classes  to  the  character  and  claims  of  Christ,  has 
come  a  "  new  vitaHty  in  evangelistic  work,"  fostered  by  the  "  Special 
Committee  on  a  Forward  Evangelistic  Movement,"  of  which  Bishop  Price 
of  the  C.M.S.  (Fukien)  is  Chairman  and  Dr.  Warnshuis  the  National 
Evangelistic  Secretary.  Such  a  movement,  uniting  all  Societies  labouring 
in  China,  is  new  indeed,  and  so  is  the  Week  of  Evangelism  it  has  promoted 

"  the  first  attempt  ever  made  to  mobilise  the  spiritual  forces  of  the 

Chinese  Church  in  a  united  evangehstic  forward  movement  "  (p.  343). 

In  their  report  for  191 7  the  Forward  Evangelistic  Committee  states  : 
"  Wherever  this  national  Week  of  EvangeUsm  was  thoroughly  prepared 
for  and  carried  through  with  energy,  the  churches  have  been  awakened 
and  found  themselves  able  to  move  forward  on  a  wide  front.  As  stated 
in  last  year's  report,  the  purpose  was  to  create  a  persistent,  organised,  and 
enthusiastic  missionary  endeavour  in  the  whole  Church,  among  both 
pastors  and  lay-people,  of  which  this  Week  of  EvangeUsm  would  be  but 
the  beginning.  This  ideal  still  remains  to  be  achieved,  and  the  programme 
which  the  Committee  recommends  for  the  ensuing  year  contains  proposals 
for  a  continuation  of  this  effort." 

2  The  course  of  study,  which  is  thoroughly  supervised  and  systematic, 
*'  covers  two  years  and  includes  Bibhcal  introduction,  book,  chapter,  and 
topical  Bible  study,  Bible  doctrine,  outUnes  of  church  history,  music,  the 
preparation  of  Gospel  addresses,  and  individual  training  in  chapel  and 
street  preaching,  and  in  personal  work.  Much  care  is  taken  to  foster  a 
deep  prayer  life  in  each  worker,  real,  living  fellowship  with  God,  and  a 
consciousness  of  absolute  dependence  on  the  indwelling  Holy  Spirit  for  a 
holy  life  and  fruitful  service." 


PRAYERS  YET  TO  BE  ANSWERED     623 

district  and  take  whatever  time  is  necessary  to  reach  its 
entire  population,  whether  in  town  or  country,  with  the 
Message  of  Salvation. 

"  We  now  have  three  parties  at  work,"  Dr.  Keller  wrote  in 
1917,  "  and  we  hope  to  add  three  more  parties  this  year.  In 
hundreds  of  homes  the  people  have  given  up  idolatry,  and  have 
accepted  Christ  as  their  Saviour  and  Lord.  Bible-study  classes 
have  been  formed  ;  new  churches  have  been  organised,  always 
by  the  missionary  of  the  district,  never  by  our  men  ;  and  many 
thousands  who  never  heard  the  Gospel  before  have  had  their 
misconceptions  cleared  away,  their  prejudices  broken  down,  and 
their  hearts  opened  to  the  Gospel  message." 

Then  once  a  year  the  bands  gather  together  for  two 
months  of  special  study  in  their  Autumn  Bible  School 
among  the  mountains,  where  a  famous  shrine  (Nan-yoh) 
attracts  hundreds  of  thousands  of  pilgrims  annually.  There 
the  students  are  joined  by  pastors  and  evangelists  from 
all  over  the  province  who  come  up  for  rest  and  spiritual 
refreshment,  and  take  part  in  the  "  intense,  fruitful,  heart- 
to-heart  work "  carried  on  among  the  pilgrims,  a  large 
proportion  of  whom  are  earnest,  religiously-inclined  young 
men.  Forty  thousand  personal  conversations  were  recorded 
in  1916,  and  many  cases  of  conversion  of  the  deepest  interest. 
These  methods  of  training  and  work,  Dr.  Keller  believes, 
could  be  adapted  to  the  special  needs  of  other  provinces, 
and  would  go  far  to  solve  the  problem  of  the  evangelisation 
of  China  in  this  generation. 

In  the  Bible  Mr.  Taylor  used  up  to  the  time  of  his  Home- 
going  a  little  map  was  found,  traced  on  thin  paper,  of  the 
province  of  Kwei-chow,  showing  the  stations  especially 
in  which  the  work  among  the  tribes-people  was  beginning. 
Often  prayed  over,  that  fragment  of  paper  bears  its  silent 
testimony  to  the  longing  of  his  heart  after  those  wild, 
neglected  children  of  the  mountains — living  at  enmity 
with  their  Chinese  neighbours,  worshipping  demons  and 
charms,  and  bound  by  the  grossest  superstition  and  sin. 
Coming  home  on  his  first  furlough  from  Kwei-chow,  Mr. 
James  R.  Adam,  who  had  been  doing  what  he  could  among 
the  Miao  people  round  An-shun,  met  Mr,  Taylor  in  Dundee 


624         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

in  the  home  of  Mr.  WilUam  Scott.  The  work  was  difficult 
though  full  of  promise,  and  how  to  follow  it  up  Mr.  Adam 
hardly  knew,  with  the  charge  of  the  station  on  his  hands. 
Yet  there  seemed  no  prospect  of  fellow- workers.  What 
was  Mr.  Adam  to  do  ?  Should  he  give  up  the  effort  to 
reach  the  tribes-folk,  and  confine  himself  to  work  among 
the  Chinese  ? 

"  Never  shall  I  forget  your  dear  father's  kindness/'  he  wrote, 
*'  that  last  time  I  met  him.  With  affectionate  sympathy  he 
wished  me  Godspeed  in  this  work  among  the  Chinese  and  Miao, 
telling  me  to  go  on  as  I  had  been  doing  and  to  do  the  best  I 
could  for  both." 

Little  did  either  of  them  think  as  they  parted  in  Dundee 
of  the  answer  that  was  to  be  given  to  their  prayers  ;  of 
the  wonderful  movement  that,  beginning  in  the  An-shun 
district,  was  to  extend  to  the  adjacent  province  (Yun-nan), 
gathering  many  thousands  of  these  simple  mountain  people 
into  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  raising  up  from  among  them 
ardent  missionaries  to  carry  the  Gospel  on  from  tribe  to 
tribe  in  ever- widening  circles  of  blessing. 

"  The  sun  has  never  risen  upon  China  without  finding 
me  at  prayer,"  Mr.  Taylor  could  say  of  long  years  of  his 
labours  in  that  land  ;  and  perhaps  no  part  of  those  labours 
had  more  to  do  with  the  results  we  see  to-day.  But  he  not 
only  prayed.  The  foregoing  pages  have  revealed  a  little 
of  what  lay  behind  those  prayers.  "  I  do  want  to  give  up 
myself  and  you  too,  darling,  for  the  life  of  the  Chinese 
and  of  our  fellow-workers,"  he  wrote  to  Mrs.  Taylor  in  one 
of  their  many  separations  :  and,  "  Notice,  in  i  Cor.  i.  i8, 
the  connection  of  the  Cross  with  power.  Do  not  many 
lives  lack  power  because  they  do  not  love  the  Cross  ?  May 
your  Hfe  be  full  of  the  power  of  God,  and  mine." 

The  needs  that  moved  him,  the  command  that  revealed 
the  yearning  of  the  heart  of  Christ — Whom  we,  too,  call 
Master  and  Lord — remain  the  same  to-day.  Great  changes 
have  come  and  are  coming  in  China.  New  methods  are 
needed  in  missionary  work  to  meet  the  new  conditions, 
and  are  being  prayerfully  developed  and  applied.  But 
the  great  underlying  facts  remain  the  same.     Idolatry  has 


PRAYERS  YET  TO  BE  ANSWERED    625 

not  lost  its  hold.  Writing  from  the  far  north-west  (June 
1918),  a  member  of  the  Mission  tells  of  Guilds  in  one  city 
numbering  thousands  of  men  and  women  sworn  to  regular 
worship  at  stated  times.  In  one  of  these  some  fifteen 
hundred  women  are  pledged  to  go  to  a  certain  temple  on 
the  second  and  sixth  of  every  month,  "  where  they  kneel 
upright  on  the  verandahs  and  in  the  courtyard,  each  holding 
a  stick  of  incense  between  the  two  hands  raised  to  the 
level  of  the  forehead.  This  position  has  to  be  maintained 
and  prayers  recited  until  the  stick  of  incense  has  burned 
away — quite  a  long  process."  And  offerings  of  money 
must  be  made  on  every  one  of  the  stated  worship  days, 
which  go  to  the  building  and  beautifying  of  temples  and 
making  fresh  idols.  And  this  is  only  one  city  out  of  hundreds 
that  have  as  yet  no  resident  missionary.  Do  the  people 
need  light  in  their  darkness  ?  Do  they  not  care  about 
the  unknown  future  and  what  becomes  of  the  soul  ?  Is  it 
for  them  too  that  the  precious  blood  was  shed  which  alone 
can  cleanse  from  sin  and  bring  us  nigh  to  God  ?  And  what 
shall  be  said  of  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  us  if, 
knowing  these  things,  we  are  not  doing  our  utmost — 
whether  by  prayer  or  gifts  or  personal  service — to  bring 
to  them  too  the  knowledge  which  is  life  eternal  ? 

Much  is  being  done  ;  but  much  more  is  needed  if  the 
present  opportunity — perhaps  the  most  glorious  that  has 
ever  come  to  Christian  men  and  women — is  to  be  dealt 
with  faithfully.  "  When  China  is  moved,"  Napoleon  used 
to  say,  "  it  will  change  the  face  of  the  globe."  China  is 
moved,  is  moving  :  shall  it  not  be  home  to  the  heart  of  God  ? 

"  We  must  advance  upon  our  knees,"  said  Bishop  Cassels  in 
view  of  the  needs,  the  possibilities  of  that  vast  country.  "  There 
must  be  a  fresh  taking  hold  of  God  in  prayer.  ...  I  thank 
God  that  this  Mission  lives  upon  prayer.  But  I  say,  God  will 
do  '  a  new  thing  '  for  us  when  there  is  a  new  spirit  of  prayer 
among  us.  God  will  do  '  a  new  thing '  for  us  when  there  is  a 
new  spirit  of  consecration  among  us." 

If  the  one  whose  steps  we  have  followed  through  a  life 
of  toil  and  sacrifice,  yet  of  radiant  joy  in  fellowship  with 
Christ,  could  speak  to  us  to-day  from  "  the  exceeding  and 

2S 


626         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 

eternal  weight  of  glory/'  would  he  not  say  again  as  he  said 
in  the  midst  of  the  fight : 

There  is  a  needs-be  for  us  to  give  ourselves  for  the  life  of  the 
world — as  He  gave  His  flesh  for  the  feeding  of  the  Hfeless  and  of 
Hving  souls  whose  hfe  can  only  be  nourished  by  the  same  life- 
giving  Bread.  An  easy-going  non-self-denying  Ufe  will  never 
be  one  of  power. 

Fruit-bearing  involves  cross-bearing.  "  Except  a  com  of 
wheat  fall  into  the  ground  and  die,  it  abideth  alone."  We  know 
how  the  Lord  Jesus  became  fruitful— not  by  bearing  His  Cross 
merely,  but  by  dying  on  it.  Do  we  know  much  of  fellowship 
with  Him  in  this  ?  There  are  not  two  Christs— an  easy-going 
one  for  easy-going  Christians,  and  a  suffering,  toiling  one  for 
exceptional  behevers.  There  is  only  one  Christ.  Are  you  will- 
ing to  abide  in  Him,  and  thus  to  bear  much  fruit  ? 

Would  that  God  would  make  hell  so  real  to  us  that  we  cannot 
rest ;  heaven  so  real  that  we  must  have  men  there  ;  Christ  so 
real  that  our  supreme  motive  and  aim  shall  be  to  make  the  Man 
of  Sorrows  the  Man  of  Joy  by  the  conversion  to  Him  of  many 
concerning  whom  He  prayed,  "  Father,  I  long  that  those  whom 
Thou  hast  given  Me  be  with  Me  where  I  am,  that  they  may 
behold  My  glory." 


or  TUvnc 


MAP      OF      CHINA, 

Only  Stations  of  the  China  inland  Mission  are  map|<ed  on  this  Map. 


INDEX 


Aborigines,  movement  among  the,  346, 

624 
Accomplishing  the  Impossible,  216 
Adam,  James  R.,  623 
Administration  questioned,  107 
Alcock  (Sir  Rutherford),  Ambassador, 

154,  158,  160 
America,  numerous  applicants,  452 
America's  contribution  of  missionaries, 

471 
America's  financial  contribution,  471 
American  branch,  concern  in  England, 

460 
American  branch  idea,  450 
American  workers  first,  441 
A  Missionary  Band,  378 
An-hwei — 

Meadows  enters  the  province,  158 
C.I.M.     Superintendent     appointed, 

394 
An- King — 
riotous  uprising,  179 
centre  of  men's  training  home,  180 
Conference,  366 
training  home  principal    appointed, 

394 
first    meeting    of     superintendents, 

420 
Anniversary  meetings,  first,  279 
Anniversary  meetings,  the  twenty-first, 

428 
"  Appeal  for  Prayer,"  the,  265 
Appeal  for  the  "  Seventy,"  360 
Appeal  for  the  "  Thousand,"  487 
Appealing  for  funds  discouraged,  257 
"  A  present  Saviour,"  148 
Argent,  Mr.,  murder  of,  504 
A  Thousand  Miles  of  Miracle  in  China, 

59T 
Audiences,  some  eccentricities,  100 
Australasia,  C.I.M.  beginnings,  488 
Australia,  Mr.  Taylor's  visit,  490 
Australian  Cottncil  formed,  490 
Australian  party,  first,  496 
Auxiliary  Council  formed,  466 
Aveline,  Mr.,  104 
A  Yankee  on  the  Yangtze,  608 


Ballard,  Mr.,  322,  324 

Bailer,  F.  W.— 
call  to  China,  220 
arrival  in  Shanghai,  245 
describes  his  early  experiences,  246-8 
trained  at  Harley  House,  262 
escorts  ladies  to  Shan-si,  313 
escorts    lady    workers     into     West 

China,  331 
reference  to  women  of  Hu-nan,  340 
appointed      principal     of     training 

home,  394 
in  Shan-si,  403 

Baptisms,  early,  iii 

Barmen  Alliance  Mission,  556,  561 

Barnardo,  Dr.,  56 

Barrie,  Dr.,  615 

Basket,  entering  Hang-chow  by  a,  130 

Baptisms  and  progress,  255 

Baptisms,  first  record  year,  552 

Baptisms  in  Temple,  307 

Beach,  Dr.  Harlan,  613 

Bead  mat,  message  of  a,  151 

Beauchamp,  Lady,  315 

Beauchamp,  Montagu — 
joins  the  Mission,  381 
goes  to  Sze-chwan,  413 
travelling  with  Mr.  Taylor,  414 
visits  Australia,  490 

Bedside  Covmcil  meetings,  267 

Bell,  Mr.  Henry,  12 

Berger,  VV.  T.— 
his  conversion,  25 
first  meeting  with  Mr.  Taylor,  25 
consecration  to  missionary  service,  26 
undertakes  to  represent  the  work  at 

home,  37 
weekly  and  noonday  prayer   meet- 
ings at  Saint  Hill,  71 
home  ministry,  103 
his  letters,  104 

difficulties  in  administration,  107 
correspondence   re  Yang-chow  riot, 

161 
letter  to  Mr.  Taylor  on  his  bereave- 
ment, 207 
imprecedented  difficulties,  209 


627 


628 


THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 


Berger,  W.  T.  [contd.)— 

retirement  from  the  work,  217 

gift  for  the  "  Seventy,"  372 

attitude  towards  China  Council,  507 

invites  Mr.  Taylor  to  France,  560 

death  in  1899,  560 

gift  to  Superannuation  Fund,  560 
Bernus,  Pastor,  519 
Bible  School,  aiming  to  open  a,  244 
Bible,  the  soul's  nutriment,  212 
Bird,  Howard,  612 
Bird,  Rev.  Alfred,  488 
Black,  Miss  Mary,  395 
Blackstone,  W.  E.,  444 
Bland,  Mr.,  527,  530 
Boardman,  Dr.,  264 
Blatchley,  Miss — 

her  letters,  79,  93,  97,  120,  131,  137, 
145,  147,  150,  T85 

leaves  Hang-chow,  137 

hunger  for  holiness  satisfied,  171 

lines  by,  187 

takes  the  Taylor  children  home,  188 

physical  breakdown,  233 

edits  Occasional  Paper,  233 

her  Chinese  name,  236 

relieved  by  Miss  Desgraz,  249 

death  of,  261,  263 

Dr.  Guinness'  tribute,  261 
Boat  travelling,  113 
Bobrinsky,  Count,  his  gift,  271 
Bonar,  Dr.  Andrew,  372 
Booth,  Wm.,  216 
Botham,  Thos.,  526,  527,  530 
Bowyer,  Miss,  119 
"  Boxer  "  rising,  585 
Branching  out,  131 
Brash,  Rev.  Denholm,  553 
Breakfast  gift,  a,  427 
Brighton  Convention,  264 
British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society,  12, 

21,  158 
British    Government    and    Yang-chow 

Riot,  160 
Brock,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  610 
Brookes,  Dr.  James,  445 
Broomhall,  B. — 

home  at  Bayswater,  17 

introduction  to  Mr.  Berger,  25 

comes  into  the  work,  282 

Mrs.  Broomhall  cares  for  Mr.  Taylor's 
children,  312 

appointed  General  Secretary,  318 

manifold  activities,  362 

his  forte,  that  of  inspiring  confidence, 
372 

publishes  A  Missionary  Band,  378 

the  "  Cambridge  Seven,"  383 

a  breakfast  gift,  427 

the  Hundred,  427 


Broomhall,  B.  {contd.) — 

welcomes  Mr.  Frost,  437 

retirement,  558 
Broomhall,  Miss  Mary,  605 
Broumton,  J.  F. — 

recalling  early  days,  280 

goes  to  Kwei-chow,  294 

alone  in  Kwei-yang,  309 

itinerating  in  eastern  Yiin-nan,  352 

Treasurer  in  China,  395,  554 
Brimton,   conversion   and   baptism  of 

Mr.,  75,  93 
Burma  to  Shanghai,  352 
Burns,  Rev.  Wm.,  58,  69,  112,  480 
Business  centre  opened  at  Wu-chang, 

261 
Business     efficiency     of     C.I.M.,     an 
American  tribute,  608 

Cable,  Miss,  413 

"  Cambridge  Seven  " — 

their  names,  381 

in  Scotland,  383,  386,  389 

farewell  meeting  in  Exeter  Hall,  388 

entry  into  China,  390 

five  in  Shan-si,  403 
Cameron,  Jas.,  351 
Canada — 

first  Coxmcil  meeting,  453 

first  missionary  party,  454 

Mr.  Taylor's  visit,  451 
Candidates — 

early  training  of,  226 

type  of  men  wanted,  244,  268 
Cardwell,  J.  E.— 

visit  from  Mr.  Taylor,  230 

pioneering  in  Kiang-si,  231 

oa  furlough,  296 

Business  Manager  in  Shanghai,  395 
Cassels,  Bishop — 

joins  the  Mission,  380 

Church  of  England  district  contem- 
plated, 401 

opening  up  work  in  Sze-chwan,  431 

appointed  Bishop,  555 

"  advance  upon  our  knees,"  625 
Challice,  John,  226 
Chang  (Pastor),  early  zeal,  403 
Chapman,  Robert,  62 
Charteris,  Professor,  381 
Chefoo — 

"  The  Bungalow,"  324 

first  land  purchased,  328 

building  of  the  first  sanitarium,  328 

beginning  of  the  schools,  329 

bxiilding  of  new  Boys'  School,  550 

Foxmder's  Day,  584 
Chefoo  Convention,  provisions  of,  285 
Chefoo  Convention  signed,  284 
Chefoo  Customs  House  of&cer,  32a 


INDEX 


629 


Che-kiang — 

Mission  stations  in  1874,  249 
baptisms  and  progress,  255 
appointment  of  C.I.M.  Superintend- 
ent, 394 
Cheng-tu  riot,  539 
Cheng-hsien,  237,  238 
Ch'en,  Mr.,  of  Chow-kia-kow,  523 
Cheques,  eleven  timely,  182 
Child's  prayer  for  an  idolater,  a,  118 
Child's  question,  a,  151 
China  Alliance  Mission  (German),  500 
China  Council — 
suggested,  375 
first  meeting,  420 
Grey  Book  issued,  421 
early  questionings,  507 
special  prayer  meeting,  511 
China  Inland  Mission — 

accommodation  in  Shanghai,  earliest, 

86 
account  opened  in  London  &  Coimty 

Bank,  33 
activities  in  Hang-chow,  early,  98 
American  branch,  438 
American  Workers*  Conference,  508 
anniversary  meetings,  first,  279 
appealing  for  fimds  discouraged,  257 
Australian  beginnings,  488 
baptisms,  early,  iii 
Berger,  retirement  of  Mr.,  218 
business  efl&ciency,  608 
Cambridge  Seven,  377 
Canadian  Council,  first  meeting,  453 
Canadian  party,  first,  454 
candidates,  early  arrangements,  54 
candidates,  early  training  of,  226 
Consul's  tribute,  a,  350 
costume,  adoption  of  Chinese,  89-92 
Council  suggested  and  formed,  a,  225, 

226 
criticisms,  early,  88,  293 
Deed  of  Incorporation,  466 
denominational  position,  416 
Deputy  Director  appointed,  394 
early  offers  of  service,  45 
eighteen    new    workers    asked    for, 

266 
extensive  itinerations,  285 
extension  of  home  premises,  268 
faith  principles,  52 
fasting  and  prayer,  day  of,  47 
first  receipt  given,  33 
government  on  the  field,  506 
Hang-chow,  arrival  at,  93 
headquarters      in      Shanghai,      site 

bought,  398 
home  in  Shanghai,  first,  244 
Hundred,  the,  419 
"  International  "  idea,  449 


China  Inland  Mission  (contd.) — 

itinerations,     some     questions     an- 
swered, 349 
launching  the  Mission,  9 
Liebenzell  branch,  561 
loss  of  life  by  violence — thirty-two 

years'  immunity,  576 
martyr  roll,  the,  591 
martyr,  the  first,  579 
missionary  boxes  prepared,  46 
name,  first  appearance  of,  33 
native  help,  development  of,  232 
Occasional  Paper,  the,  54 
organisation,  development  in,  368 
prayer  for  the  "  Eighteen,"  224 
prayer  for  the  nine  imopened  pro- 
vinces, 266 
prayer  for  the  "  Seventy,"  356,  359, 

360 
Principles  and  Practice,  394 
provincial  Superintendents,  appoint- 
ment of,  393 
Pyrland  Road,  219 
Secretary  appointed,  282 
six  years,  the  first,  217 
ten  years'  work,  280 
training  homes  opened,  393 
twenty-first  anniversary,  427 
type  of  men  wanted,  268 
131  missionaries  arrive  in  six  months, 
499 
China  Mission  Year  Book,  622 
China's  Millions,  first  issue,  273 
China's  Spiritual  Need  and  Claims,  35, 

45,  46,  379 
Chinese  callousness,  5 
Chinese  Workers'  Conference,  at  Ning- 

po,  308 
Chin-kiang — 

settlement  in,  138 
official  opposition,  145 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  reside  there,  19T 
arrival  after  Yang-chow  riot,  152 
Conference,  257 
Christ  is  All,  168 
Chopsticks,  a  first  meal  with,  248 
Christ  in  everything,  186 
Christ  Jesus  the  Vine,  172 
Christ  our  All-Sufficiency,  404-408 
Ch'ii,  Pastor — 
early  zeal,  403 
his  ordination,  411 
Chimg-king — 

opened  as  a  Mission-station,  294 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Nicoll  arrive,  331 
riot  of  1886,  416 
Conference,  579 
Circulation  of  Scriptures,  285 
Clarke,  G.  W.— 

baptizing  first-fruits  in  Ho-nan,  289 


630 


THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 


Clarke,  G.  W.  (contd.)— 

goes  to  Kwei-chow,  331 

Mrs.  Clarke  goes  to  Yiin-nan,  345 

death  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  346 

evangelising  in  Kwang-si,  350 

marriage,  351 

campaign  with  Mr.  Taylor,  426 
Clarke,  S.  R.,  312 
Cockroaches  and  sleep,  157 
Coerper,  Rev.  H.,  519,  561 
Coleman,  H.  C,  605 
Collection  prevented,  result  of  a,  63 
Colville,  Mrs,,  472 
Coming  of  the  Lord,  practical  effect  of 

this  hope,  408 
Conference    of   Chinese    workers'    first 

Union,  308 
Consular    authorities    and    Yang-chow 

riot,  161 
Consul's  tribute  to  C.I.M.,  a,  351 
Converts — 

Nying,  Mr.,  an  eager  preacher,  241 

Enquirer  Dzing,  250 

Tao-hsing,  306 

Captain  Yii,  334 

Farmer  Yii,  335 

Farmer  Tung,  336 

a  leper's  ministry,  342 

Hsi  Liao-chuh  (Pastor  Hsi),  349 

Ch'en  of  the  Pearly  Wave,  523 

a  heroic  woman,  541 

Wang  Lae-djiin's  generous  gift,  551 

Pastor  Song,  588 

Li  Pu-cheo,  his  simple  faith  in  the 
resiirrection,  589 

Kuo  Lao-siang,  612 
Converts,  some  early,  286-287 
Cooper,  William — 

appointed    superintendent    of    An- 
hwei,  394 

serious  illness,  459 

Assistant  Deputy  Director,  553 

martyred,  592 
Cordon,  Henry,  138 
Correspondence  and  contributions,  270 
Costume,     reasons     for     adoption     of 

Chinese,  89-92 
Coulthard,  J.  J.— 

visits  Chefoo  as  Mr.  Taylor's  secre- 
tary, 322 

visits  Grand  Canal,  330 

in  Chekiang,  337 

at  Wu-chang,  354 

Mr.  Taylor's  representative  at  Wu- 
chang, 368 

his  station,  523 
Council  formed,  a,  225-6 
Cranston,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  299 
Crickmay,  Miss,  313 
Criticisms,  early,  88,  105 


Crombies,  go  home,  203 
Gumming,  Dr.  Elder,  265 

Davies,  Mrs.  Palner  (nie  Baroness  von 

Dungern),  562 
Days  of  Blessing,  403 
Deed  of  Incorporation,  466 
Denominational  position  of  C.I.M.,  416 
Deputy  Director  appointed,  394 
Desgraz,  Miss — 

arrival  at  Yang-chow,  147 

letter  from  Mr.  Taylor,  192 

goes  to  England,  249 
Difficulties  unprecedented,  209 
Discipline,  value  of,  235 
District  Councils  in  China,  suggested, 

375 
Dorward,  Adam —  / 

sails  for  China,  312 

pioneering  in  Hu-nan,  352 

at  Wu-chang,  354 

his  death,  457 
Douthwaite,  Dr. — 

letter  from  Mr.  Taylor,  274 

at  Chii-chow-fu,  304 

meets  Captain  Yii,  334 

at  Wen-chow,  338 

work  at  Chefoo,  549 
Dowager     Empress,     her    reactionary 

poHcy,  575,  585 
Drinking  "  the  Living  Water,"  213 
Drummond,  Professor,  387,  491 
Duncan,  Mr. — 

accompanies  Mr.  Taylor  to  Hu-chow, 
112 
first  mention  of,  103 

"  comfortable  (?)  lodgings,"  114 

his  hunger  for  souls,  120 

studying  at  the  wash-tub,  120 

his  devotion  to  Christ,  121 

arrival  in  Nanking,  121 

fiancee  arrives,  140 

in  Yang-chow  riot,  148 

at  Nanking,  212 

retires  from  field,  229 
Duncan,  Mrs.,  nurses   Miss  Blatchley, 

i    260 

Early  rising  extraordinary,  339 

East  London  Institute,  261 

Easton,  G.  F.— 

early  days  in  Mission,  280 

first  journey  in  China,  285 

at  Tsin-chow,  343 

anticipating  the  "  Seventy,"  376 

encouraging  Mr.  Botham,  527 

welcomes  Mr.  Taylor  to  Sianfu,  529 

Edwards,  Dr.  and  Mrs.,  402 

Eighteen  new  workers  prayed  for,  224, 
266 


INDEX 


631 


English  Presbyterian  Synod,  58 
Erdman,  D.D.,  Rev.  W.  J.,  444 
Evangelical  movements,  beginning  of 

various,  48 
Evangelistic  movement,  a  forward,  622 
Expenditure  in  1872,  monthly,  218 
Extension  of  C.I.M.  in  1873,  234 
Extension  of  the  work,  131 

Fagg,  Mrs.,  493,  504 

Fall  and  its  consequences,  a,  263 

Famine  in  Shan-si,  303,  310 

Fanstone,  Mr.,  560 

Farthest  outpost  of  Protestant  Missions 

in  1874,  260 
Fasting  and  prayer,  47,  210,  318,  367, 
410,  417,  458 
/%^  Faulding,  Miss — 

her  letters,  80,  87,  99,  102,  103,  125, 

158,  171 
her  Chinese  name,  126 
cost  of  school  meals,  181 
her  school  work,  207 
marries  Mr.  Taylor,  223 
Fausset,  Miss,  332,  341 
Field  Secretary  appointed,  211 
"  Filled  with  the  Spirit,"  510-512,  574 
Financial  supplies — 

account  opened  in  London  &  County 

Bank,  33 
American  liberality,  447,  471 
appealing  for  funds  discouraged,  257 
balance  almost  nil,  256 
balance  at  retirement  of  Mr.  Berger, 

218 
balance  only  £10,  384 
breakfast  gift,  a,  427 
candidates,  many,  but  only  £zg,  314 
Chefoo  Boys'  School,  building  money 

provided,  550 
collection     prevented    results    in    a 

donation  of  £500,  64 
correspondence    and    contributions, 

270 
"  Debt  "    and    "  Faith,"    incompa- 
tible, 55 
Duncan's  deliverance,  Mr.,  123      - 
economic  expedients,  181  ^ 

£800  for  extension  work,  255 
eleventh  hour,  help  at  the,  515 
eleven  timely  cheques,  182 
expenses  of  the  "  Hundred,"  425,  428 
falling-off  of  income,  162 
£50  instead  of  £5,  271 
£500  for  the  "  Seventy,"  372 
"fleeces,"  Mrs.  Taylor's,  312 
£4000  for  nine  imopened  provinces, 

266 
"  from  the  sale  of  plate,"  270 
funds  "  lower  and  lower,"  352 


Financial  supplies  [contd.) — 
high  rate  of  exchange,  235 
Hsi's  (Mrs.)  gift  of  jewels,  413 
liability  unmet,  only  occasion,  19 
"  lower  than  they  were  before,"  178 
Mission    funds    poor    substitute    for 

Living  God,  211 
Mr.  Meadow's  surprise,  15 
monthly  expenditure  in  1872,  217 
Miiller's  gifts,  Mr.,  183,  287 
£96  instead  of  £800,  368 
no    open    door    unentered    through 

lack  of  funds,  280 
packed,  but  waiting  for  funds,  514 
passage  money,  timely,  317 
prayer  for  increase  in  annual  income, 

309 
sacrifice,  a  fruitful,  313 
snuff-box,  gift  of  a,  474 
striking  answer  to  prayer,  59 
stumbling  over  a  string  of  cash,  356 
Taylor's,  Mrs.  {nSe  Faulding),  gift  to 

the  work,  258,  266 
£3000,  a  special  "token  for  good,"  369 
timely  gifts,  18,  19 
travelling  expenses  in  Sweden,  476 
Wang  Lae-djiin's  generous  gift,  551 
"  Watch  and  see  what  God  will  do," 

515 
watch  for  "  Herren  Jesu,"  beautiful, 

474 
weekly  expenditure  in  1873,  234 
widow's  mite,  a,  426 
Findlay,  Rev.  D.  J.,  560 
Fishe,  Charles — 
first  meeting  with  Mr.  Taylor,  56 
recollections  of  Yang-chow,  181 
appointed  Secretary  on  field,  211 
home  on  furlough,  289 
financial  secretary,  515 
Fishe,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ed.,  245 
Fleming,  Wm.  S.,  first  C.I.M.  martyr, 

579 

Folke,  Eric,  473,  531 

Ford,  Mr.,  612 

Forman,  Rev.  J.  N.,  437,  443 

Forward  Movement,  the,  518,  566,  568 

Fox,  Rev.  Chas.,  598 

Franson,  Rev.  F.,  500 

Free    voyage    offered    to    two    young 
missionaries,  28 

Frost,  Henry  W. — 
first  visit  to  Pyrland  Road,  437 
Niagara  Conference,  447 
C.LM.  American  branch,  450 
moves  to  Toronto,  469 
Hon.  Secretary  in  States,  453 
visits  China,  508,  555 
Switzerland,  visit  to  Mr.  Taylor,  597 
Philadelphia,  removal  to,  606 


632 


THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 


Gamble,  Wm.,  86,  92,  141 
Gambling-house  turned  into  a  chapel, 

242 
Geil,  W.  E.,  608 
Gibson,  Miss  Agnes,  396 
Gooderham,  Mr.,  453 
Gough,  Rev.  F.  F.,  13,  55,  71 
"  Grace  before  meat,"  415 
Grace,  Mrs.,  254 

Grade's  illness  and  death,  118,  119 
Gray,  Miss,  397 
Guex,  Miss  Marie,  397 
Guinness,  Dr.  Whitfield,  613 
Guinness,  H.  Grattan,  and  Mrs.,  56,  70, 

212,  261 

Hall,  J.  C,  542 

Hall,  Wm.,  a  member  of  Council,  226 
Hamilton,  Sir  Robert  and  Lady,  493 
Hang-chow — 

arrival,  and  early  experiences,  93-102 

baptisms,  early,  125 

entering  city  by  a  basket,  130 

Church  membership  in  1867,  133 

first  Chinese  missionary,  255 
Hankow,  earliest  workers,  138 
Happer,  Dr.,  398 
Harley  House,  Training  Institute,  57, 

261 
Harmony  threatened,  104 
Hayward,  J.  N.,  376 
Headquarters  moved  to  Pyrland  Road, 

219 
Heart  -  contact      with      the      Chinese 

essential,  405 
Helpers  (Chinese)  beaten  in  Ho-chow, 

132 
Hendrikson,  Mr.,  529 
Hill,  David,  296,  349 
Hill,  Richard,  225,  226 
History     of    the     Church     Missionary 

Society,  381,  432 
Hofmann,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  586 
Holiness — 

the  way  of,  164,  168 

how  enjoyed,  172 
Holman,  Mr.,  opens  Sianfu,  529 
Holmgren,  Mr.,  472,  475 
Holy  Ghost,  the  fulness  of  the,  367 
Home  in  Shanghai,  first  C.I.M.,  245 
Home  ministry,  the  early,  103 
Ho-nan — 

first-fruits,  289 

women's  work,  early  experiences,  344 

travel  in,  522 
Home,  Miss,  313 
Horsburgh,  Mr.   and    Mrs.,  arrival    in 

China,  509 
Hoste,  D.  E.— 

offers  for  China,  377 


Hoste,  D.  E.  (contd.)— 

in  Shansi,  413,  531 

Superintendent  of  South  Shansi,  554 

acting  General  Director,  593 

Director-General,  597 
"  Hotel  "    in   Shanghai,  Mr.  Taylor's, 

246-248 
Houghton,  Richard,  59 
House  of  Lords  and  Yang-chow  riot, 

162 
Howard,  Theodore,  318,  507 
"  How  long  have  you  known  ?  " — an 

ex-Buddhist's  question,  8 
How  to  live  on  Christ,  186 
Hsi,  Pastor — 

baptism,  349 

evangelising  zeal,  403 

influence  and  ability,  409 

ordination,  411 

Mrs.  Hsi's  gift  of  jewels,  412 

welcomes  Mr.  Taylor,  531 
Hu-chow — 

opposition  in,  132 

visited,  112 
Hu-nan — 

pioneer  efforts,  286-352 

women's    work,    early    experiences, 
331,  340 

first     settled     resident     missionary, 
577 
Hundred,  the — 

thought  of,  419 

hymn  of,  423 

six  hundred  applications,  425 

Dr.  Eugene  Stock's  tribute,  432 

veteran  missionary's  fear  and  faith, 

433 
Hunger  for  souls,  120 
Hung-tung,  Conference  of  1886,  410 
Hunt,  Mr.,  329 
Hunter,  Captain,  614 
Hunter,  Rev.  Geo.,  577 
Huston,  Miss  C.  L.,  605 
Hutchinson,  Jonathan,  18 
Hwo-chow,  how  opened,  412 

1(^1  temple  converted  into  a  chapel, 
255 

In  Deaths  Oft,  591 

Inland    provinces,    early    postal    and 
banking  facilities,  98 

Inland  stations  opened  in  1867,  131 

Interior,  pressing  into  the,  158 

Inwood,  Rev.  Chas.,  573 

Itineraries,  Cameron's  extensive,  351 

Itinerations — 

principle  of  early,  288 

some  questions  answered,  349 

Tackson.  Mr..  112 


INDEX 


633 


Jacobsen,    Miss,   first   settled  resident 
missionary  in  Hu-nan,  577 

James,  Mr.,  famine  relief  work,  303 

Job's  comforters,  69 

John,  Dr.  Griffith,  298,  6o7,  608 

Jones,  Lewis,  6o7 

Jones,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  11,  17 

Joyce,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  609 

Judd,  C.  H.  and  Mrs.— 
arrival  in  China,  134 
Yang-chow  riot,  149 
return  to  Yang-chow,  156 
cockroaches  and  sleep,  157 
in  charge  of  Yang-chow,  165 
on  Mr.  Taylor's  spiritual  quickening, 

173 

Mr.  Taylor's  horse,  185 

first  furlough,  229 

return  from  England,  245 

Wu-chang,  256 

Hu-nan,  286 

Kwei-chow,  294 

Chefoo,  324 

Shanghai,  365 
Judson,  Adoniram,  620 
Ju-ning,  house  rented  at,  289 
Just,  Madame,  397 

Keller,  Dr.  F.  A.,  577,  583,  613,  622 
Kelly,  Dr.  Howard,  598 
Kennedy,  Rev.  T.,  17 
Keswick  deputation  to  China,  568,  573 
Kiangsi,  pioneering  in,  231,  296 
Kidd,  Miss- 
leaves  for  Kwei-chow,  331 

crossing  Hu-nan,  340 

at  Wu-chang,  354 
King,  George — 

sails  for  China,  269 

at  Han-chang-fu,  342 

death  of  Mrs.  King,  345 
Knowing  God,  the  one  thing  needful, 

236 
Kwang-si,  early  evangelising,  351 
Kwang-sin  river  district,  397,  577 
Kwei-chow — 

pioneering,  294 

premises  rented  in  Kwei-yang,  297 

women's  work,  341 

Lack,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  609 
Ladies'  Council  formed,  466 
Lammermuir,  the — 

accommodation  offered,  64 

voyage  of,  70-84 

arrival  in  Shanghai,  84 

Captain  Bell's  present,  93 

farewell  to,  93 

twenty-first  aimiversary,  427 
Lan-chi  visited,  113 


Landale,  Mr.,  382 

Language,    one    method    of    learning 

Chinese,  130 
Language  Study  Course  adopted,  421 
Leadership,  wherein  it  consists,  393 
Legacy,  the  Morton,  565 
Leper's  ministry,  a,  343 
Letter,  a  soul-healing,  168-71 
Lewis,  Rev.  W.  G.,  17 
Liebenzell  Mission,  origin  of,  561 
Li  Hung-chang,  viceroy,  284,  590 
Lindsay,  General  Sir  Alexander,  9 
Livingstone,     a    birthday    dedication, 

380 
London  Missionary  Society,  261,  295 
Lord,  Rev.'  E.  C,  17 
Loving  Christ,  a  lesson  in,  386 
Luce,  Rev.  J.  J.,  373 

Macartney,  Rev.  H.  B. — 

sense  of  missionary  obligation,  488 

tribute  to  Mr.  Taylor,  493 

envious  of  Mr.  Taylor's  peace,  508 
M'Aulay,  Rev.  Alex.,  70 
M'Carthy,  John — 

meets  Mr.  Taylor,  56 

arrives  in  Hang-chow,  102 

itinerates  with  Mr.  Taylor,  112 

at  Shanghai,  143 

letter  at  time  of  Yang-chow  riot,  154 

letter  to  Mr.  Taylor  about  Way  ol 
Holiness,  168 

goes  to  An-hwei,  229 

walk  across  China,  294 

sub-edits  China's  Millions,  318 

on  furlough,  380 
M'Carthy,  Mrs.  Wm.,  331,  341 
M'Kee,  Maggie,  459 
Mackintosh,  Miss,  397,  503 
M'Laurin,  Rev.  John,  451 
Marco  Polo,  139 

Margary,  Augustus,  murder  of,  277 
"  Married  missionaries  should  be  double 

missionaries,"  155 
Martin,  Dr.  W.  A.  P.,  607,  608 
Martyr,  first  C.LM.,  579 
Martyr-roll  of  C.I.M.,  591 
Martyred  Missionaries   of  the  C.I.M., 

591 
Master  of  Pembroke,  388 
Meadows,  Mr.  J.  J. — 

call  to  China,  13 

bereavement,  23 

arrives  with  reinforcements,  102 

goes  to  Tai-chow,  in 

leads  Charles  Schmidt  to  Christ,  138 

pushes  into  An-hwei,  158 

attracts  Mr.  Bailer  to  the  Mission,  220 

appointed    Superintendent    of    Che- 
kiang,  394 


634 


THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 


Medhurst,  M.  H.,  Consul-General,  154, 
158,  160 

Medical  work — 

dispensary  opened  in  Hang-chow,  loi 

among  the  women  of  Kan-su,  344 

Mr.  Taylor's  views,  407 

Dr.  Wilson  at  Han-chung-fu,  416 

surgery  extraordinary,  543 

Dr.  Douthwaite  at  Chefoo,  549 

Meeting,     a    small     but    wonderfully 
fruitful,  58 

Menzies,  Mrs.,  548 

Meyer,  F.  B.,  216,  383 

Mildmay  Conference,  45,  222 

Mission  staff  and  premises  in  1873,  234 

Mission  stations  in  China  in  1875,  276 

Missionaries  in  China  in  1865,  number 
of,  7 

Missionaries  in  China  in  1877,  291 

Missionaries  mistaken  for  Government 
agents,  285 

Missionary  boxes  prepared,  46 

Missionary      reinforcement      unprece- 
dented, 499 

Missionary  situation  in  1881,  349 

Missionary  staff  in  Shanghai  in  1866,  92 

Mohammedan  uprising,  539,  542 

Moody,  D.  L. — 

meets  Mr.  Taylor,  223 
missions  in  England,  264,  379 
Mr.  Taylor's  visit  to  Northfield,  442 
offer    of    "  Northfield    Hotel "    for 
Training  Home,  471 

Moore,  C.  G.,  281 

Morton,  J.  T.,  545,  565 

Morton,  Rev.  W.  Lockhart,  488 

Mott,  John  R.,  519 

Moule,  Bishop,  55 

Moxey,  Dr.,  386 

Muirhead,  Dr.,  invites  Keswick  depu- 
tation to  China,  568 

Muirhead,  Rev.  Wm.,  416 

Miiller,  George — 

interest  in  C.I.M.,  60,  161 
gifts  to  Mission,  162,  182,  257 
letter  to  missionaries,  183 

Murray,  Miss  M. — 
arrival  in  China,  378 
Superintendent   of  Training   Home, 

394 
Mr.  Taylor's  Easter  visit  (1905),  606 

Nanking — 

beginning  of  work,  120,  122 
used  as  a  training  centre,  248 
Nasmith,  Mr.,  453 
Native  help,  development  of,  232 
Native  leaders,  co-operation  of,  244 
Newcombe,  the  Misses,  508 
Niagara  Conference  of  1888,  447 


Nicoll,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  George,  290,  339, 
340 

Ning-hai,  candidates  for  baptism,  166 

Ningpo  Conference,  308 

Ningpo  Mission,  five  additional  mission- 
aries provided,  29 

Ningpo    version    of    New    Testament 
jeopardised,  20 

Noon-day  prayer  meeting,  71 

Norris,  Herbert,  457 

Norris,  Miss,  584 

Northfield,  Mr.  Taylor's  second  visit, 
471 

Nying,  Mr.,  his  conversion,  238 
his  death,  305 

Occasional  Paper,  first,  55 
OEcumenical  Conference,  New  York,  585 
Opium  refuge  work,  350 
Opposition  and  success,  132 
Opposition  to  C.I.M.,  293 
Organisation,  development  in,  368,  375 
Orr  Ewing,  Arch.,  508 

Paas,  Mr.,  500,  518 

P'an,  martyred  Miao  convert,  579 

Parker,  Dr.,  206 

Parker,  Miss  Susie,  454 

Parker,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  work  in  Kan-su, 

343,  344 
Parrott,  Mr.,  354,  356,  368 
Parsons,  Dr.,  453 
Parsons,  Rev.  C.  H.,  488 
Pastor  Hsi :   one  of  China's  Christians, 

350 
Pearse,  George,  25 
Pearse,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ed.,  296,  365 
Pennefather,  Rev.  W.,  45,  222 
Personal  Life  of  Livingstone,  378 
Perth  Conference,  the,  3,  4 
Pierson,  Dr.  A.  T.,  378,  471,  572 
Pigott,  Mr.,  at  Wu-chang,  354 
Pillans  Smith,  Miss,  261 
Ping-yang-fu — 

Conferences,  411,  531 
progress  of  Chmrch,  403 
Political  situation  in  China  in  1876,  283 
Polnick,  Mr.,  500,  519 
Poona  and  Indian  Village  Mission,  495 
Prayer,  answers  to — 
rent  money  provided,  19-20 
Ningpo  version  of  N.T.  regarding,  22 
for  removal   of    furniture    (to    new 

home),  27 
five  additional  workers  for  Ningpo 

Mission,  29 
financial  supplies   for  first  party  of 

missionaries,  59 
accommodation  on  the  Lammerniuir, 
64 


INDEX 


635 


Prayer,  answers  to  icontd.) — 

home  provided  at  Hang-chow,  95,  97 

Mr.  Duncan's  deliverance,  124 

health  restored,  144,  190 

difficult  journey  accomplished,  144 

opening  of  Ning-hai,  166 

conversion  of  Mr.  Nying,  239 

heathen  prayer  answered,  241 

£800  for  extension  work,  254 

eighteen  new  workers,  267 

a  quick  response,  270 

a  Russian  count's  unwitting  gift,  271 

food  supplied,  287 

blessing  at  Shanghai  Conference,  299 

fog  dissipated,  322 

storm  abated,  326 

£3000  for  "  the  Seventy,"  369 

for  "  the  Seventy,"  378 

money  for  site  of  Mission  House  in 
Shanghai,  399 

"  Grace  before  meat,"  415 

the  Hundred,  424 

train  service  regulated  by  prayer,  452 

railway  tickets  provided,  452 

for  rain,  505 

Botham,  Mrs.,  life  spared,  529 

for  the  "  Thousand,"  537 

food  sufficient,  546 
Prayer,  a  cabled,  423 
Prayer  and  fasting,  131 
Prayer,  its  superlative  value,  436 
Prayer  experiences — 

"  a  great  while  before  day,"  114 

a  child's  prayer  for  an  idolater,  118 
Prayer    for   the   nine    unopened    pro- 
vinces, 266 
Prayers,  Mr.  Taylor's,  221 
Premises  and  Mission  staff  in  1873,  234 
Premises  rented,  additional,  46 
Presence  of  Jesus  essential,  assurance 

of,  212 
Pressing  into  the  interior,  158 
"  Principles  and  Practice,"  amplified, 

421 
Principles  of  the  Mission,  42 
Protestant  communicants  in  1889,  477 
Proverb,  a  Chinese,  138 
Piickler,  Count,  562 
Puget,  Colonel,  63 
"  Puppy- dumplings,"    157 
Pyrland  Road,  headquarters,  219 

Radcliffe,  Reginald — 

interest  in  the  Mission,  380 

leading     missionary     campaign     in 

Scotland,  381,  383 
campaign  with  Mr.  Taylor,  426 
accompanies  Mr.  Taylor  to  America, 

440 
Niagara  Conference,  446 


Radstock,  Lord,  317,  372 

Redfern,  Mr.,  527 

Reed,  Miss  Mary,  489 

Reed,  Mrs.  H.,  489 

Reeve,  Mr.  Chas.,  495 

Reid,  Mr.,  145,  147 

Reinforcements,  arrival  of  first,  102 

Retirement  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Berger,  217 

Retrospect  in  Chinese,  615 

Revival,  the  great,  48 

Ridley,  Mr.  and  NIrs.,  542,  543,  546 

Riley,  J.  H.,  312 

Riots,  in,  132,  146,  416,  503,  539,  575, 

579 
Riot,  the  Yang-chow,  and  the  British 

Government,  161 
Rioters'  derisive  cry,  153 
Roux,  Dr.,  598 
Rowe,  Mrs.  J.  L.,  620 
Rudin,  Professor,  474 
Rudlaud,  W.  D.— 

call  and  early  difficulties,  50 

epitome  of  his  work,  51 

carries  money  to  Mr.  Duncan,  123 

begins  his  printing  experience,  129 

how  he  learnt  the  language,  130 

marries  Mary  Bell,  137 

called  to  Yang-chow,  140 

nearly  murdered,  149 

at  Chin-kiang,  165 

death  of  a  much-loved  child,  194 

called  to  Tai-chow-fu,  212 

baptisms  at  Dien-tsi,  255 

nursing  Mr.  Taylor,  327 
Rutherford,  Samuel,  163,  440 

Sabbath  observance  extraordinary,  144 

Salisbury  Conference,  374 

Sandeberg,  Miss  af,  613 

Sandham,  Mr.,  453,  469 

Satan,  a  servant  of  God,  391 

Saturday   afternoon   prayer  meetings, 
the  early,  24,  71 
two  only  present,  261 
discontinued,  263 
held  in  Mr.  Taylor's  bedroom,  267 
power  in  the  gatherings,  380 

Scandinavian  missionaries,  499-529 

Schmidt,  Chas.,  138 

Schofield,  Dr.  Harold- 
letter  re  funds,  353 
plea  for  seventy  new  workers,  376 
dies  praying,  377 

Scotch  Council  formed,  466 

Scott,    Robert,    appointed    Treasurer, 
466 

Scott,  Wm.,  624 

Scripture  circulation,  early,  231 

Searell,  Miss,  592 

Sell,  Mr.,  loi 


636 


THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 


"Seventy,"   the,    356,    360,   367,   369, 
372,  378 

Shanghai  Conference,  second,  473 
Shanghai     Conference,     second,      Mr. 

Taylor's  sermon,  483 
Shanghai  described,  246 
"  Shanghai  Free  Christian  Church,"  365 
Shanghai  General  Conference  in  1877, 

298 
Shanghai  headquarters — 

Seward  Road  premises,  299 

site   and   property  of  present   com- 
poxmd,  how  obtained,  398 
Shanghai  in  1866,  85 
Shan-si — 

the  great  famine,  303 

lady  missionaries  enter  province  for 
first  time,  313 

first  Protestant  church  in  the  pro- 
vince, 350 

Conference  of  1886,  404 

Mr.  Taylor's  visit  in  1886,  401-11 
Shao-hing-fu,  86,  237,  242 
Sharp,  Wm.,  joins  the  Council,  318 
Shearer,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  523,  610 
Shen-si,    women's     work,     early     ex- 
periences, 342 
Shopping  experiences,  113 
Si-an-fu  Conference,  530 
Siao-shan — 

beginning  of  work  in,  98 

driven  out,  106,  in 
Simple  life,  the,  99 
Simpson,  Professor,  381 
Si-ning,  8000  feet  above  sea-level,  544 
Sinologue  of  Mission,  chief,  220 
Six  years,  the  first,  217 
Sloan,  Walter  B.— 

arrival  in  China,  508 

secretary  in  London,  513,  558 

visit  to  Germany,  561 

Switzerland,  visit  to  Mr.  Taylor,  597 

assistant  Home  Durector,  597 
Small  meeting,  a  wonderfully  fruitful, 

58 
Smith,  Miss  Edith,  61 
Smith,  Stanley  P.— 

offers  for  China,  377 

in  Leicester,  382 

in  Shan-si,  413 
Smoking  women,  China's,  100 
Soltau   family,   missionary   interest   of 

the,  61 
Soltau,  Geo.,  226,  489 
Soltau,  Henry — 

appointed  Honorary  Secretary,  226 

sets  out  for  Bhamo,  272 

itinerating  from  Bhamo,  297 

visit  to  Chvmg-king,  340 

pioneering  in  Western  Yiin-nan,  352 


Soltau,  Miss  H.  E.— 

meets  Mr.  Taylor,  61,  224 

nvursing  Miss  Blatchley,  260 

appointed      secretary      of      Ladies' 
Council,  466 

visit  to  China,  570 
Soltau,  Wm.,  282 
Somerset,  Duke  of,  160 
Soo-chow,  settlement  obtained,  138 
Soul  hunger  satisfied,  171 
Soul  nutriment,  212 
Southey,  John,  496,  497,  499 
Speer,  Dr.  Robert,  378,  519 
Spiritual  crisis,  a,  170 
Spittler,     Herr,     of     "  The     Pilgrim 

Mission,"  49 
Spurgeon's  praj'ers,  221 
Stations  opened  inland  in  1867,  131 
Stearns,  Rev.  D.  M.,  605 
Stevenson,  J.  W. — 

preparing  for  China,  34 

opens  Shao-hing-fu,  86 

revival  at  Shao-hing,  237 

conversion  of  Mr.  Nying,  238 

leaves  for  Bhamo,  272 

itinerating  from  Bhamo,  297 

pioneering  in  Western  Yiin-nan,  352 

home  from  Burma,  379 

appointed  Director's  Deputy,  394 

Han-chung-fu  visit,  399 

at  Hung-tung,  409 

appreciation  of  Pastor  Hsi,  409 

first  suggests  "  the  Himdred,"  422 

tribute  to  Mr.  Taylor,  462 

furlough  in  1891,  503 

Bishop  Cassels  appointment,  555 
Stewart,  Rev.  Robert,  his  murder,  541 
Stock,  Dr.  Eugene — 

"  The  Cambridge  Seven,"  383 

words  re  the  "  Hundred,"  432 

on  appointment  of  Bishop  Cassels, 
555 
Story  of  the  C.I.M.,  519 
Stott,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  G.,  34,  iii,  166 
Stowe,  Mrs.  Harriet  Beecher,  186 
Studd,  C.  T.— 

joins  the  Mission,  381 

in  Leicester,  382 

goes  to  Sze-chwan,  413 
Students,   meetings   in   Scotland,    382, 

386,  389 
Student     Volunteer     Movement,     the 

germ  thought,  442 
Student   Volunteer   Movement,   origin 

of,  378,  389 
Superannuation  fund,  first  gift,  560 
Superintendents,    their    first    meeting, 

420 
Superintendents  appointed,  393 
Surgery  extraordinary,  543 


INDEX 


637 


Sweden,  Mr.  Taylor's  visit,  474 
Swedish  Mission  in  China,  473,  531 
Sze-chwan — 
first  woman  missionary,  331,  340 
Church    of    England    district    con- 
templated, 401 
disturbance  in,  540 

Tai-chow-fu,  work  begun  at,  ni,  132 

Tai-yuan-fu,  early  work,  319 

Tao-hsing,  his  story,  306 

Taylor,  C.  E.,  252 

Taylor,  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Howard,  marriage, 

519 
Taylor,  J.  Hudson — 

account  opened  in  London  &  County 

Bank,  33 
active  in  illness,  158 
aim  regarding  C.I.M.,  his,  69 
America,  visits  to,  440,  467,  519 
anxiety  unknown,  430 
appealing    for    funds,    attitude    to- 
wards, 257 
Australasian  visits,  490,  585 
baptizes  first  believers  at  Wen-chow, 

166 
basket,  over  the  wall  by  a,  130 
Beauchamp,  Sir  Thomas  and  Lady, 

introduction  to,  35 
Beaumont  Street,  daily  life  in,  13 
bedside  Council  meetings,  267 
Berger,  introduction  to  Mr.,  25 
Berger  re  Western  China,  to  Mr.,  297 
Bible-reading  habit,  416 
Bible  school,  hoping  to  open  a,  244 
Bible  study,  its  importance,  596 
Brighton  conflict,  the,  31 
buffeted  by  temptation,  166 
burdened  but  borne,  115 
burial-place,  his,  619 
calmness  in  storm,  81 
candidates,  correspondence  with,  268 
Cannes,  visits  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Berger  at, 

369 
Chapman,  Robert,  intercourse  with, 

62 
Chefoo,  change  to,  321 
children,  parting  from  the,  188 
"  China  for  Christ,"  articles  on,  278 
China's  Millions,  first  proof,  273 
China's  Spiritual  Need  and  Claims, 

written  and  published,  36,  45 
Chvmg-king,  visit  to,  578 
cleaning  boots,  441 
Cobom  Street,  removal  to,  27 
collection,  interposes  to  prevent  a,  63 
Conference  at  Wu-chang,  298 
Conference  sermon,  his,  483 
conflicting  opinions,  harmonised  by 

prayer,  583 


Taylor,  J.  Hudson  (contd.) — 

consistent  lives,  his  plea  for,  405 

conversation    with    enquirer    Dzing, 
250 

cook,  as  a,  402 

correspondence,  his  amazing,  375 

costume,    reasons    for    adoption    of 
Chinese,  89-92 

courtesy,  his,  472 

criticisms  of  his  methods,  early,  88 

Davos,  at,  586 

death  of  his  father,  358 

death  of  his  mother,  353 

death  of  Mrs.  Taylor  {nee  Dyer),  197 

debt,  attitude  towards,  54,  564 

denominational  position  of  the  Mis- 
sion, view  on,  416 

Detroit,  at,  520 

developments  in  the  West,  approach- 
ing, 254 

difficulties  reveal  God,  218 

discipline,  value  of,  235 

drowning  "  Peter,"  attempt  to  save, 
5 

East  London,  settlement  in,  11 

educational  work,  views  on,  407 

example,  danger,  and  the  force  of, 
504 

faith  and  vision,  his,  9 

fall  and  its  consequences,  a,  263 

family  life,  break  in,  187 

father  heart,  his,  116 

final  visit  to  China,  606 

financially  helping  others,  181 
financial  straitness,  18 

France,  south  of,  560 

fruitful  illness,  a,  268 

funds,  a  reminder  re,  211 

funds   of   Mission,   never   supported 

out  of,  18 
general  letter,  his  first,  128 
German  visits,  502,  519 
gift  towards  building  London  head- 
quarters, 558 
gladness,  overflowing,  360 
"  Godly  rule,"  on,  42  r 
God's  faithfulness,  hold,  278 
"  Grace  before  meat,"  415 
Grace,  his  support,  163 
'*  Grade's  Uttle  letter,"  117 
Grand  Canal,  visits  the,  330 
Hang-chow,  his  last  visit,  581 
harmonium,  at  the,  220 
heart-contact  with  Chinese  essential, 

405 
holiday  in  Switzerland,  315 
Ho-nan  and  Shan-si,  1894,  521 
horse  he  never  rode,  the,  185 
"  Hundred,"  the,  423 
hunger  for  holiness,  164 


638 


THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 


Taylor,  J.  Hudson  (contd.) — 
"  hunger  for  souls,"  on,  120 
ideal  of  "  a  wife,"  313 
illness  at  Feng-hwa,  254 
indemnity,    his    attitude    regarding, 

583,  591 

Indian  visit,  556 

invalided  from  China,  lO 

Irish  visits,  57,  426 

Jewish  work,  his  sympathy  with,  600 

journals,  early,  16,  17 

"  Keswick,"  and,  264 

Keswick  deputation  to  China,  sug- 
gests a,  567 

knowing  God,  the  one  thing  needful, 
236 

Kwang-sin  river,  visit  to  the,  339 

last  journey  in  China,  613 

leadership,  his  idea  of,  393 

leaning  hard  on  God,  134 

letter  f^  Mrs.  Taylor's  gift  of  property, 
258 

letter  to  Mr.  Hill,  250 

letter  to  Mrs.  Broomhall,  a  precious, 

173 
letters  after  the  death  of  his  wife, 

199-201,  208 
letters    subsequent    to    blessing    re- 
ceived, 178-181,  184,  192 
letters  to  his  children,  203-205 
...letters  to    Mrs.  Taylor,  some,   354, 
358,  366,  391,  392 
Lindsay,    stays    with    General    Sir 

Alexander,  9 
listener,  a  good,  295 
Lord's  Table,  at  the,  606 
loving  Christ,  a  lesson  in,  386     ' 
magnetism  of  his  personality,  374 
married   missionaries,    character   of, 

155 
marries  Miss  Faulding,  223 
martyr,  letter  re  first  C.I.M.,  579 
medical  ministry,  232 
medical  studies,  12,  15 
medical  work,  views  on,  407 
meeting,  a  small  but  fruitful,  373 
methods  discredited,  his,  106 
Mildmay  Conference,  at,  45 
money,  fear  of  unconsecrated,  430 
moaey — "  It  is  the  Lord's  money  : 
we    had    better    be    very    careful 
about  it,"  476 
Mliller,  to  George,  213 
Miiller,  visits  George,  61 
Nanking,  three  months  at,  230 
Native  help,  opinion  re,  232 
native      leaders,      encouraging      co- 
operation of,  244 
Ningpo  version  of  N.T.  jeopardised, 
20 


Taylor,  J.  Hudson  (contd.) — 
Northfield  visits,  442,  471 
North  London,  reason  for  settling  in, 

222 
nourished  by  the  Word,  212 
nurse,  as  a  children's,  314 
Occasional  Paper,  first,  55 
"  Open  Brethren,"  early  intercourse 

with,  35 
Pastor  of  Shanghai   Free  Christian 

Church,  365 
Perth  Conference,  the,  3 
plans.  Conference  of  Chinese  workers, 

308 
politics  of  Missions,  his  contribution 

to  the  high,  43 
Practical   effect  of  waiting   for   the 

Lord's  retiurn,  408 
Prayer  re  Income,  309 
prayer  for  the  "  Eighteen,"  224 
prayer  for  the  "  Seventy,"  356 
prayer  for  100  native  evangelists  and 

missionaries  to  superintend  them, 

252 
prayer  habit,  173,  307,  452 
prayers,  his,  221 
prayerfulness,  his  exceeding,  22 
praying  for  Kiang-si,  296 
praying  for  thirty  new  workers,  309 
Presbyterian    Synod,     speaking    at 

English,  58 
"  Presence  of  Jesus,"  on  the,  212 
principles  of  the  Mission,  on,  268 
Queen  of  Sweden,  meets  the,  475 
Radcliffe,  campaign  with   Reginald, 

426 
Radstock  (Lady),  introduction  to,  35 
Radstock  (Lord),  correspondence  be- 
gun with,  36 
rejoicing  in  the  Lord,  184 
resting  while  wrestling,  506 
Sabbath  observance,  his,  16,  610 
sagacity  as  a  leader,  129 
sanitarium    at    Chefoo,    builds    the 

first,  328 
Satan,  a  servant  of  God,  391 
self-effacement,  his,  308 
seventy-three  years  old,  608 
Shanghai   Conference,   his   paper   at 

the,  298 
Shanghai,  his  "  hotel  "  in,  246 
Shan-si,  visits,  401,  531 
Shan-si  to  Han-chung-fu,  414 
Sian-fu  visited,  529 
Soltau,  first  meeting  with  Miss,  61 
soul  hunger  satisfied,  171 
Southey,  meeting  Mr.,  497 
Spirit,  on  the  filling  of  the,  574 
spiritual  crisis,  a,  170 
spiritual  ministry,  his,  373 


INDEX 


639 


Taylor,  J.  Hudson  {contd.) — 
Sweden  and  Denmark,  in,  474 
"  the     best     way     of    serving     our 

Master,"  355 
"  the  light  in  his  face,"  497 
theme,  his  favourite,  181 
thirsting  and  drinking,  213 
"  To  Every  Creature"  ^yy,  481 
tribute  by  C.  G.  Moore,  281 
tribute  by  D.  J.  Findlay,  560 
tribute  by  John  M'Carthy,  103 
tribute  from  Rev.  H.  B.  Macartney, 

493 
tribute  in  Ho-nan,  Chinese,  523 
tribute,  Mr.  Robert  Wilder's,  443,  595 
tribute,  Mr.  Southey's,  497 
tribute.  Rev.  J.  N.  Forman's,  444 
tribute.  Rev.  W.  J.  Erdman's,  444 
tribute,  W.  E.  Blackstone's,  444 
twenty-first    anniversary    meetings, 

at  the,  428 
Union  and  Communion,  366 
United  States,  seventh  visit,  605 
verbal  inspiration,  belief  in,  518 
Vevey,  home  at,  594 
visits  every  station  of  the  Mission, 

231 
whistling  in  trouble,  291 
women's  work,  letter  re,  338 
women's  work  among  Chinese,  reasons 

for  safety  of,  398 
"  Word  of  God,"  his  view  of  the,  404 
works  all  night,  35,  45 
Taylor,  Henry — 

arrival  in  Shanghai,  245 
trained  at  Harley  House,  262 
Ho-nan  experiences,  286-90 
fed  in  extremity,  288 
Taylor,  Herbert,  361 
Taylor,  Miss  Annie,  556 
Taylor,  Mrs.  Hudson  (nee  Dyer) — 
her  help  in  translation  work,  20 
heroic  faith,  her,  37 
letters  in  time  of  strain,   105,   109, 
128,  142,  147,  148,  151,  155,  160 
leaves  Hang-chow,  137 
Yang-chow,  139 

goes  alone  to  Shanghai  from  Yang- 
chow,  140 
"  the  backbone  of  the  Mission,"  141 
Sabbath    observance   extraordinary, 

144 
labouring  at  the  oar,  144 
calmness  in  danger,  149 
prevents  mvurder,  149 
endurance  of  pain,  151 
"  puppy-dumplings,"  157 
cockroaches  and  sleep,  157 
wonderful  courage  and  devotion,  159 
"  never  worried,"  t86 


Taylor,  Mrs.  Hudson  {nee  Dyer)  {contd.) 

goes  to  nurse  Mrs.  Judd,  189 

correspondence  with  Mrs.  Berger,  193 

her  prayer  life,  194 

her  death,  197 
/Ifaylor,  Mrs.  {nie  Faulding) — 

"  leaning  on  Jesus,"  233 

gift  to  the  work,  258 

gives  title  to  China's  Millions,  273 

call  to  Shan-si,  the,  3 11- 12 

guided  by  a  dream,  319 

a  trying  voyage,  321 

leads  in  women's  work,  322 

her  letters,  233,  249,  311,  312,  320, 
321,  324,  329,  331,  498 

returns  to  England,  352 

death  of  her  mother,  354 

returns  to  China   after   nine  years' 
absence,  499 

farewell    letter    to    teachers    in    the 
Girls*  School,  584 

gift,  her  last,  600 

letters  when  nearing  the  end,  601 

gift  to  Mission,  her  last,  604 

death,  604 
Temple  baptisms,  307 
"  Term  question,"  the,  291 
The    Celestial    Empire,    note    re    Mr. 

Taylor's  paper,  299 
The  Christian,  164,  263 
The  Evangelisation  of  the  World,  378 
The   Glory   of  the  Impossible,   extract 

from,  216 
The  Higher  Christian  Life,  264 
The  Missionary  Recorder,  296 
The  Times  and  the  Yang-chow  riot,  161 
Thirsting  and  drinking,  213 
Thousand,  the,  487 
"  Thousand,"  given,  the,  537 
Thwaites,  Canon,  374 
T'ien-fuh,  evangelist,  122 
Tien-tsin  massacre,  190,  209 
"  To  Every  Creature,"  i^yy,  481 
Torin,  Dean,  474 
Training  homes  opened,  393 
Treaty  of  Tien-tsin,  276 
Trench,  Mr.,  331,  354 
Trotter,  L.  Lilias,  216 
Tsin,  evangelist,  87,  loi,  106,  112 
Tsing-kiang-pu,  first  visited,  158 
Turner,  Mr.,  303,  349 
Turner,  Miss  Emmeline,  235 

Union  and  Communion,  366 

Union  Conference  of  Chinese  workers, 

first,  308 
Unmarried  missionary  women  in  China 

in  1866,  88 
Unprecedented    missionarjr    reinforce- 

ment,  499 


640         THE  GROWTH  OF  A  WORK  OF  GOD 


Venn,  Henry,  21 

Wade,  Thomas,  283 

Waldegrave,  Hon.  Miss,  315 

Walker,  Mrs.,  206 

Walsh,  Thos.,  165 

Wang  Lae-djun,  13,  16,  334,  397 
rejoins  Mr.  Taylor  at  Ningpo,  125 
gives  his  savings  to  the  work,  551 

War  between  China  and  Japan,  533 

War  threatening,  283 

Watch-night  service,  a  memorable,  132 

Weatherly,  Joseph,  226 

Weir,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Thos.,  267,  299,  320 

Wen-chow,  in,  166,  539 

Wesleyan  Missionary  Society,  261,  295 

West  China- 
beginnings  of  the  work,  254,  261,  272 
first     permanent     mission     station 

opened,  297 
women's  work  begun,  330 

Whitchurch,  Miss,  592 

Wilberforce,  Canon,  372 

Wilder,  Robert,  438,  443,  446,  595 

Wilkinson,  Rev.  John,  601 

Williams,  Rev.  E.  O.,  431 

Williamson,  Mr.,  132,  158,  394 

Williamson,  Miss,  558,  59^ 

Wilson,  Dr.  Wm.,  416 

Wilson,  Miss  Elizabeth — 
goes  to  Wen-chow,  304 
her  work  in  China,  305 
travels  west,  332 
arrival  in  Han-chung-fu,  342 

Women  in  Chma  in   1866,  unmarried 
missionary,  88 

Women's  work — 

beginnings  of,  128,  294 
beginning  in  Shan-si,  322 
beginning  in  West  China,  330 
opening  up  in  inland  provinces,  337 
West  China,  early  experiences,  339 
first    woman   missionary   in   Szech- 

wan,  340 
early  experiences  in  Hu-nan,  340 
early  experiences  in  Shen-si,  342 


Women's  work  {contd.) — 

Prayer  Union  in  England,  344 
early  experiences  in  Ho-nan,  344 
first  lady  missionary  to  West  China, 

345 
first  baptisms  in  West  China,  345 
early  efforts  in  Yiin-nan,  346 
Kwangsin  river  district,  397 
Mr.   Taylor's  reasons   for  safety  of 
women's  work  among  Chinese,  398 

Wood,  F.  Marcus,  376,  513 

Woodman,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  548 

Word  of  God,  vvTitten  and  incarnate,  404 

Working  twenty- four  hours  a  day,  446 

World's  Student  Christian  Federation, 
its  inception,  389 

Wu-chang — 
opening  of,  256 
house  rented,  261 
Conferences,  298,  354 

Wylie,  Mr.,  158,  350 

Yang-chow — 

first  visited,  139 

signing  of  deed  of  rental,  140 

besieged  by  visitors,  144 

riot,  the,  147 

reinstated  after  the  riot,  159 

baptisms,  159,  170 

Parliamentary  action  re  riot,  160 

Consular  authorities  and  riot,  161 

Training  Home  opened,  378 

Training  Home  Superintendent  ap 
pointed,  394 
Yang  Ts'iien-ling,  294 
Year  (1870),  a  remarkable,  210 
Yen-chow- fu,  visited,  113 
Yii,  Captain,  334 
Yii  Man-tze  rebellion,  579 
Yun-nan — 

hindrances  to  entry,  297 

first  lady  missionary,  345 

extensive  itinerating,  352 
YU-shan — 

first  converts  meet  Mr.  Taylor,  304 

growth  of  Church  in  four  years,  39 


THE    END 


Printed  by  R.  &  R.  Clark,  Limited,  Edinburglu 


Date  Due 


JSU^-^H^ 


IPPiBWRw^l^^* 


0  19gB 


Oi8»e*^Sf 


Hffi^^ids. 


Jmm 


AP  ?  ^   '( 


°''IS_-.8iililliir' 


l5B99 


PRINTED 


IN  U.  S.  A 


II 


^'■' 


