15 
4 


Insures  against  fire, 

destructive  insects  and 

dishonest  borrower*. 


Ex  LIBRIS 


i      Cf. 

KIUBORJN 


V  STUDIA     IN    / 

Presented  to 
THE  LIBRARY 

of 
VICTORIA  UNIVERSITY 

Toronto 
by 

Leslie  G.    Kilborn 


THE   JUBILEE   STORY 


OF 


THE   CHINA   INLAND   MISSION 


Photo  by 


WHERE  CHRIST  WAS  NOT  NAMED. 


"  The  China  Inland  Mission  was  formed  under  a  deep  sense  of  China's  pressing  need,  and  with  an 
earnest  desire,  constrained  by  the  love  of  Christ  and  the  hope  of  His  coming,  to  obey  His  command  to 
preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature." — First  Sentence  of  the  Principles  and  Practice  of  the  C.I.M. 

Frontispiece. 


"THE  JUBILEE 
STORY 


OF  THE 


CHINA  INLAND  MISSION 


WITH    PORTRAITS 
ILLUSTRATIONS  &  MAP 


BY 


MARSHALL  BROOMHALL,  M.A. 

EDITOJUAL    SECRETARY 


LONDON:  MORGAN  &  SCOTT,  LD. 

12   PATERNOSTER   BUILDINGS,   E.G. 

CHINA       INLAND       MISSION 

NEWINGTON    GREEN,   LONDON,   N 

PHILADELPHIA,    TORONTO,    MELBOURNE     AND 
SHANGHAI  MCMXV 


4 

EMMANUEC 


56634 


THIS    RECORD 

OF 
GOD'S    FAITHFULNESS 

IS    DEDICATED 
TO    THE    MEMORY    OF    THOSE    WHO    LAID    THE    FOUNDATIONS 

AND 

TO    THOSE    WHO    BY    THEIR    GIFTS    AND    SERVICE 
ARE    BUILDING    THEREON 


Not  from  a  stock  of  ours  but  Thine, 

Jesus,  Thy  flock  we  feed, 
Thy  unexhausted  grace  divine 

Supplies  their  every  need  ; 
But  if  we  trust  Thy  providence, 

Thy  power  and  will  to  save, 
We  have  the  treasure  to  dispense, 

And  shall  for  ever  have. 
***** 
Our  scanty  stock  as  soon  as  known, 

Our  insufficiency 
For  feeding  famished  souls  we  own, 

And  bring  it,  Lord,  to  Thee  ; 
Our  want  received  into  Thy  hand 

Shall  rich  abundance  prove, 
Answer  the  multitude's  demand, 

And  fill  them  with  Thy  love. 

CHARLES  WESLEY. 

For  of  Him,  and  through  Him,  and  unto  Him,  are  all  things. 
To  Him  be  the  glory  for  ever.     Amen. 

Rom.  xi.  36. 


VI 


FOREWORD 

BY  THE  REV.  J.  W.  STEVENSON 

For  fifty  years  a  member  of  the  China  Inland  Mission,  and  for  nearly 
thirty  years  its  Deputy-Director  in  China. 

HAVING  through  the  providence  of  God  been  closely  associ 
ated  with  most  of  the  events  recorded  in  this  Jubilee  Story, 
I  gladly  respond  to  the  invitation  to  write  a  short  Foreword. 

No  devout  and  thoughtful  Christian  can  read  these 
chapters,  setting  forth  the  main  facts  relating  to  the  progress 
of  the  evangelization  of  China  by  the  China  Inland  Mission, 
without  being  impressed  by  the  unmistakable  evidence  of 
the  presence  and  guidance  of  God.  The  record  of  what  has 
been  accomplished  by  faith  and  prayer  is  calculated  to 
stimulate  and  encourage  men  and  women  everywhere  more 
fully  to  trust  God  in  all  circumstances.  It  should  be  a 
help  to  the  spiritual  life  of  God's  children,  and  lead  to  an 
increase  of  intercession,  service,  and  sacrifice  for  the  extension 
of  the  Lord's  dominion  over  the  hearts  and  lives  of  the  millions 
of  China  still  uninfluenced  by  the  Gospel. 

The  instances  of  privation  gladly  borne,  and  of  the  lives 
laid  down  for  Christ's  sake  will  move  the  sympathetic  reader, 
and  he  will  recognize  that  God's  seal  and  special  honour 
have  been  graciously  bestowed  upon  the  Mission.  And 
as  he  ponders  the  long  list  of  the  beloved  workers  who  have 
joined  the  noble  army  of  martyrs,  he  will  feel  that  a  peculiar 
solemnity  and  sacredness  is  given  to  the  whole  record. 

While  there  is  cause  for  thankfulness  for  what  has  been 

vii 


viii  THE  JUBILEE  STORY 

achieved,  the  fact  nevertheless  remains,  that  the  great  task 
of  evangelizing  China  is  only  at  its  beginning.  To  God  be 
all  the  glory  for  what  has  been  accomplished,  and  may  this 
record  of  His  dealings  with  the  China  Inland  Mission  be 
blessed  of  Him  to  lay  the  burden  of  the  unreached  millions 
upon  the  hearts  and  consciences  of  His  people. 

J.  W.  S. 

CHINA  INLAND  MISSION,  SHANGHAI, 
January  13,  1915. 


AUTHOR'S    PREFACE 

TWENTY-ONE  years  have  passed  since  the  publication  of 
Mrs.  Howard  Taylor's  Story  of  the  China  Inland  Mission. 
The  rapidity  with  which  events  have  moved,  and  the  far- 
reaching  developments  which  have  taken  place  since  then 
have,  for  some  time,  made  an  up-to-date  statement  of  the 
work  a  real  need.  The  celebration  of  the  Mission's  Jubilee 
this  year  emphasizes  this  need,  and  is  the  raison  d'etre  of 
the  present  volume. 

The  publication  in  1911  of  Hudson  Taylor  in  Early  Years, 
and  the  knowledge  that  the  second  volume  of  Mr.  Taylor's 
life  is  in  course  of  preparation,  have  governed  the  scope  of 
this  Jubilee  Story.  The  aim  has  been  to  present  a  brief 
survey  of  the  whole  work  which  can  be  supplemented  by  the 
other  books.  Many  separate  chapters  and  portions  have 
been  read  by  those  specially  qualified  to  offer  criticism,  and 
the  whole  of  the  unre vised  manuscript  has  been  submitted 
to  Mr.  D.  E.  Hoste,  the  General  Director ;  the  Rev.  J.  W. 
Stevenson,  the  Deputy-Director  in  China ;  and  Mr.  James 
Stark,  the  Secretary  in  Shanghai.  The  author,  none  the 
less,  accepts  full  responsibility  for  the  book  in  its  present 
form,  while  gratefully  acknowledging  the  valuable  sugges 
tions  received. 

The  wealth  of  photographs  has  been  a  source  of  embarrass 
ment,  for  almost  any  basis  of  selection  has  appeared  open  to 
criticism.  The  line  adopted,  after  much  thought,  has  been 
to  give  a  fairly  complete  set  of  portraits  of  those  who  have 
had  a  distinguished  part,  either  in  laying  the  foundations  of  the 
Mission  or  in  opening  up  the  formerly  unoccupied  provinces. 
Apart  from  the  two  groups  of  the  first  North  American  and 
first  Australasian  contingents,  and  three  other  notable 

ix 


x  THE  JUBILEE  STORY 

exceptions,  no  portraits  have  been  reproduced  of  any  who 
joined  the  Mission  later  than  the  seventies.  It  may  be 
worth  while  to  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  portraits  of 
all  the  women  who  first  entered  the  nine  unoccupied  in 
land  provinces  are  included. 

The  author  had  hoped  to  publish  almost  simultaneously, 
as  a  special  volume,  the  Annual  Report  for  1915,  giving  for 
this  Jubilee  Year  a  brief  history  of  every  central  station, 
instead  of  the  usual  yearly  record  of  work  done.  In  view 
of  the  War,  'and  the  large  amount  of  valuable  material 
which  the  workers  at  the  stations  have  kindly  supplied,  it 
has  seemed  well  to  postpone  this  Historical  Report  until 
next  year.  When  it  is  published  it  will,  it  is  hoped,  prove 
a  useful  addition  to  the  present  volume. 

The  obligations  of  the  author  are  many,  and  to  all  who 
have  kindly  given  assistance  he  returns  sincere  and  grateful 
thanks.  Special  help  has  been  given  by  Mr.  J.  J.  Coulthard 
during  his  furlough,  and  by  Mr.  T.  W.  Goodall,  the  author's 
esteemed  editorial  colleague,  who  has  prepared  the  Index. 

Few  can  be  more  conscious  than  the  writer  of  the  limita 
tions  and  defects  of  the  book.  Many  readers  will,  it  is 
feared,  seek  for  what  will  not  be  found  within  these  pages. 
Will  such  disappointed  friends  remember  that  drastic  con 
densation  has  been  a  matter  of  necessity  and  not  of  choice  ? 
The  story  of  the  opening  up  of  China,  of  the  evangelization 
of  its  provinces,  and  of  the  Divine  mercy  and  providential  love 
which  have  encompassed  the  work,  is  so  uplifting  and  vast, 
that  the  author  has  felt  as  though  he  were,  to  adopt  a  phrase 
of  Horace,  "  dwarfing  mighty  themes."  Yet,  though  this 
volume  is  but  an  imperfect  outline,  it  is  hoped  that  the  bare 
facts  recorded,  even  when  stripped  of  much  that  could  en 
hance  their  beauty,  will  appear  to  the  reader,  as  they  have 
to  the  writer,  as  monuments  of  God's  handiwork.  '''  This 
is  the  Lord's  doing  ;  it  is  marvellous  in  our  eyes." 


MARSHALL  BROOMHALL. 


CHINA  INLAND  MISSION,  LONDON, 
March  31,  1915. 


CONTENTS 


PAGE 


FOREWORD,  BY  REV.  J.  W.  STEVENSON  .  .  vii 

AUTHOR'S  PREFACE  .  .  .          ix 


INTRODUCTORY 

CHAP. 

1.  EARLY  MISSIONS  TO  CHINA  .....  3 

2.  HUDSON  TAYLOR  AND  HIS  CALL      ....  8 

3.  HUDSON  TAYLOR'S  EARLY  EXPERIENCES  .  .  .12 


THE  FIRST  DECADE 
1865-1875 

4.  THE  BIRTH  OF  A  MISSION  .  .  .  .  .21 

5.  LAYING  THE  FOUNDATIONS  .  .  .  .  .27 

6.  THE  LAMMERMUIR  PARTY  .  .  .  .  .34 

7.  SETTLING  INLAND        .  .  .  .  .  .41 

8.  AN  ENLARGED  COAST  .....         45 

9.  THE  YANGCHOW  RIOT  .  .  .  .  .53 

10.  Two  NEW  PROVINCES  .....  63 

11.  TROUBLED  ON  EVERY  SIDE   .....  68 

12.  FAINT  YET  PURSUING  .....  73 

13.  THE  HOME  DEPARTMENT       .....  79 

14.  WAXING  STRONG  IN  FAITH   .  .  .  .  .86 

xi 


xii  THE  JUBILEE  STORY 

THE  SECOND  DECADE 

1875-1885 

CHAP.  PAGE 

15.  THE  APPEAL  FOR  THE  EIGHTEEN    ...  99 

16.  THE  DOOR  OPENED     ......  105 

17.  UNTO  THE  ENDS  OF  THE  EARTH     ....  108 

1 8.  PYRLAND  ROAD  .  .  .  .  .  .116 

19.  PIONEERS  IN  WOMEN'S  WORK          ....  122 

20.  BLESSINGS  IN  DISGUISE         .....  133 

21.  A  CHINESE  PIONEER  .  .  .  .  .  .136 

22.  HEALING  THE  SICK     ......  141 

23.  PIONEER  WORK  IN  HUNAN  .....  146 

24.  THE  STORY  OF  THE  SEVENTY           ....  153 


THE  THIRD  DECADE 

1885-1895 

25.  "  THE  CAMBRIDGE  SEVEN  "  .  .  .  .  .       163 

26.  ORGANIZATION  AND  EXPANSION       .  .  .  .170 

27.  THE  KWANGSIN  RIVER          .  .  .  .  .176 

28.  NORTH  AMERICA          ......       183 

29.  To  EVERY  CREATURE  .  .  .  .  .191 

30.  AUSTRALASIA     .  .  .  .  .  .  .199 

31.  DIVIDING  THE  FIELD  ......       206 

THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

1895-1905 

32.  THE  WRATH  OF  MAN  .  .  .  .  215 

33.  NEWINGTON  GREEN     ......  220 

34.  THE  CHEFOO  SCHOOLS  .  225 

35.  THE  OPENING  OF  HUNAN      .....  230 


CONTENTS  xiii 


PAGE 


36.  AMONG  THE  TRIBES    .                                                          .  237 

37.  THE  BOXER  CRISIS     ....                       .  242 

38.  PARTAKERS  OF  THE  AFFLICTIONS  OF  THE  GOSPEL           .  247 

39.  REBUILDING  THE  WALL         .            .                        .  255 

THE  FIFTH  DECADE 
1905-1915 

40.  A  PERIOD  OF  TRANSITION     .....  263 

41.  MASS  MOVEMENTS  AND  REVIVAL     ....  267 

42.  GRACE  ABOUNDING     ....                        .  274 

43.  To  EARTH'S  REMOTEST  BOUNDS      ....  282 

44.  INSTITUTIONAL  WORK             ...                        .  291 

45.  FACTS  ABOUT  FINANCE          .....  302 

46.  THE  MISSION  FROM  WITHIN  .  .  .  .314 

47.  THE  REVOLUTION  AND  AFTER          ....  322 

48.  THE  MISSIONARY  AT  WORK  .  .  .  .328 

49.  ALL  MANNER  OF  SERVICE      .....  337 

50.  THE  YEAR  OF  JUBILEE          .                        ...  347 

APPENDICES 

THE  ASSOCIATE  MISSIONS             .....  357 

CHRONOLOGICAL  SUMMARY            .....  366 

STATISTICS    .            .            .            .            .            .            .  372 

INDEX           ........  375 


PORTRAITS 


i.  W.  Thomas  Berger. 
4.  James  J.  Meadows. 
7.  Emily  Blatchley. 

i.  George  Stott. 
4.  William  Cooper. 
7.  W.  D.  Rudland. 


i.  George  King. 

4.  James  Williamson. 

7.  George  Clarke. 

i.  J.  F.  Broumton. 
4.  Fred.  W.  Bailer. 
7.  Samuel  Clarke. 


i.  Mrs.  George  Stott. 
4.  Miss  Crickmay. 
7.  Mrs.  George  King. 

i.  Mrs.  F.  W.  Broumton. 
4.  Mrs.  Henry  Hunt. 
7.  Miss  Kidd. 


GROUPS  I.  AND  II. 

2.  Mrs.  Hudson  Taylor. 
5.  J.  Hudson  Taylor. 
8.  B.  Broomhall. 

2.  A.  W.  Douthwaite. 
5.  D.  E.  Hoste. 
8.  W.  L.  Elliston. 


GROUPS  III.  AND  IV. 

2.  George  Duncan. 
5.  James  J.  Meadows. 
8.  George  F.  Easton. 

2.  Henry  Hunt. 
5.  James  M'Carthy. 
8.  J.  J.  Coulthard. 


GROUPS  V.  AND  VI. 

2.  Mrs.  F.  W.  Bailer. 
5.  Mrs.  Hudson  Taylor. 
8.  Miss  E.  Wilson. 


3.  Theodore  Howard. 
6.  John  W.  Stevenson. 
9.  Mrs.  B.  Broomhall. 

3.  R.  H.  A.  Schofield. 
6.  W.  W.  Cassels. 
9.  Charles  T.  Fishe. 
Between  pages  78-79. 


3.  James  Cameron. 
6.  Charles  H.  Judd. 
9.  George  Parker. 

3.  Adam  C.  Dorward. 
6.  Edward  Pearse. 
9.  George  Nicoll. 
Between  pages  104-105. 


3.  Miss  Desgraz. 
6.  Miss  Celia  Home. 
9.  Mrs.  S.  Clarke. 


2.  Mrs.  J.  J.  Meadows.     3.  Mrs.  G.  Parker. 
5.  Miss  M.  Murray.  6.  Mrs.  G.  Nicoll. 

8.  Mrs.  George  Clarke.     9.  Miss  C.  Kerr. 

Between  pages  122-123. 


xv 


ILLUSTRATIONS 


Where  Christ  was  not  named 

Some  Pre-Lammermuir  Workers  . 

The  Lammermuir  Party 

The  first  North  American  Party  . 

The  first  Australasian  Party 

The  Chefoo  Schools 

The  Martyrs'  Memorial  Tablet 

Group  of  Chinese  Workers 

The  Shanghai  Compound  . 

A  Christian  Family 

Map  of  C.I.M.  Stations 


FACE    PAGE 

Frontispiece 

29 

.          38 


199 
225 

•  247 
267 

•  314 
347 

End  of  volume 


xvi 


INTRODUCTORY 

i 

CHAP.  i.    EARLY  MISSIONS  TO  CHINA. 
„      2.    HUDSON  TAYLOR  AND  HIS  CALL. 
„      3.    HUDSON  TAYLOR'S  EARLY  EXPERIENCES. 


B 


Christianity  claims  the  world  as  the  sphere  of  its  operations  :  it 
knows  no  other  locality.  It  commands  the  nations  to  give  up  nothing 
but  what  is  injurious  for  them  to  retain  ;  and  proposes  nothing  for  their 
acceptance  but  what  they  are  miserable  without.  It  casts  no  slight  on 
any  one  country,  by  exalting  the  virtues  and  glory  of  another.  It  repre 
sents  all  peoples  and  nations  as  on  a  level  in  the  eyes  of  God — as  equally 
offenders  against  Him — equally  subject  to  the  decisions  of  His  awful 
justice — and  equally  welcome  to  the  benefits  of  His  abundant  mercy. 
Its  moral  and  positive  duties  are  eqtmlly  binding  on  all  to  whom  the 
Gospel  is  made  known — its  salvation  and  privileges  are  open  on  the  same 
terms  to  all  who  will  receive  them,  without  distinction  of  age,  rank,  talent, 
or  country  ; — and  its  tremendous  sanctions  will  be  executed  on  all  who 
reject  or  abuse  it,  without  partiality,  and  without  the  possibility  of  appeal 
or  escape.  It  commands  nothing  inconsistent  with  the  outward  condition 
of  nations  or  of  individuals  ;  while  it  contains  the  germ  of  every  principle 
necessary  to  render  the  throne  stable — the  nation  prosperous — the  family 
happy — the  individual  virtuous — and  the  soul  eternally  blessed. — In  A 
Retrospect  of  the  First  Ten  Years  of  the  Protestant  Mission  to  China. 

WILLIAM  MILNE. 


EARLY  MISSIONS  TO  CHINA 

A  FEW  years  ago  the  writer  picked  up,  in  a  second-hand  book 
shop,  a  copy  of  a  Missionary  Atlas  of  the  World,  published 
in  1839.  In  this  atlas,  probably  the  first  comprehensive 
Protestant  Missionary  Atlas  issued  in  modern  times,  there 
were  maps  of  India,  Ceyltm,  Africa,  New  Zealand,  and 
even  neglected  South  America,  with  many  other  countries, 
but  no  map  of  China.  For  such  a  striking  omission 
there  was,  however,  a  sufficient  though  no  less  a  sad  and 
humbling  reason.  The  one  and  only  Mission  Station  in  that 
great  country,  the  City  of  Canton,  could  be,  and  was, 
marked  upon  the  map  of  Asia.  There  was  no  need  for  a 
map  of  China  in  a  Protestant  Missionary  Atlas  of  the  World 
published  in  1839. 

But  what  a  contrast  to-day  !  Any  map  or  atlas  of  China 
would  need,  if  all  stations  and  outstations  were  marked,  to 
show  not  less  than  seven  thousand  places.  And  all  this 
change  has  taken  place  since  that  first  Missionary  Atlas 
was  published,  when  Hudson  Taylor  was  a  child  of  seven. 

Before  we  enter  upon  the  story  of  the  particular  work 
associated  with  Hudson  Taylor's  name,  it  may  be  well  to 
briefly  survey  those  missionary  efforts  which  had  previously 
been  made  in  and  on  behalf  of  China,  some  of  which  were 
prior  to,  as  well  as  independent  of,  the  life  and  history  of 
the  Protestant  Church. 

Though  tradition,  not  altogether  unsupported  by  evidence, 
reports  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  to  the  Chinese  by  the 

3 


4  INTRODUCTORY 

Apostle  Thomas  and  others,  the  first  certain  knowledge  of 
Missions  to  China  is  connected  with  the  Nestorians,  who 
entered  that  Empire  as  early  as  A.D.  505.  The  discovery  in 
A.D.  1625  of  the  Nestorian  Tablet  at  Sianfu — recording  the 
arrival  of  a  party  of  missionaries  in  A.D.  635, — the  story  of  two 
Arab  travellers  in  the  ninth  century,  and  the  evidence  of 
Marco  Polo  four  centuries  later,  together  with  other  Chinese 
records,  all  tend  to  prove  the  widespread  activities  of  those 
early  preachers  of  the  Gospel.  Little  trace  of  their  work, 
however,  has  been  left,  though  it  is  not  impossible  that 
certain  similarities  between  Northern  Buddhism  and 
Christianity  may  be  attributed  to  their  influence. 

During  the  thirteenth  century,  when  Europe  was  deeply 
stirred  by  the  spirit  of  the  Crusaders,  and  had  but  recently 
been  threatened  by  the  hordes  of  Jenghis  Khan,  the  first 
Roman  Catholic  emissaries  set  forth  upon  the  long  overland 
journey  to  the  court  of  Kublai  Khan.  Here,  under  the 
patronage  of  that  celebrated  founder  of  the  Mongol  Dynasty 
in  China,  the  first  Roman  Catholic  Mission  was  established. 
The  story  of  this  effort,  and  especially  of  the  labours  of  John 
de  Monte  Corvino,  who  translated  the  whole  of  the  New 
Testament  and  Psalter  into  the  language  of  the  Tartars, 
and  cheerfully  endured  great  hardships  until  he  sank  beneath 
his  labours  and  advancing  years,  at  the  age  of  seventy-eight, 
is  full  of  suggestive  interest.  With  the  fall  of  the  Mongol 
Dynasty,  however,  in  1368,  after  a  brief  sway  of  less  than  a 
hundred  years,  Christianity  was  for  the  time  being  swept  out 
of  China. 

The  second  Roman  Catholic  effort  is  connected  with  the 
strong  missionary  propaganda  of  the  Jesuits'  counter  re 
formation.  In  1560,  the  Portuguese  took  Macao,  and 
Valignani,  the  Superintendent  of  the  Jesuit  Mission  in  the 
East,  who  settled  there,  gave  utterance  to  those  oft-quoted 
words  :  "  Oh,  rock,  rock,  rock,  when  wilt  thou  open  !  " 
With  the  years  of  prosperity  and  court  patronage,  mingled, 
however,  with  periods  of  bitter  persecution,  extending  from 
1579  to  1722,  the  names  of  such  great  men  as  Xavier,  Ricci, 


EARLY  MISSIONS  TO  CHINA  5 

Schall,  and  Verbiest  are  associated.  With  the  death  of  Rang 
Hsi,  the  greatest  of  the  Manchu  rulers,  in  1722,  Roman 
Catholic  Missions  entered  upon  a  period  of  severe  limitations 
and,  ere  long,  of  cruel  persecution.  Hundreds  of  Chinese 
converts  were  put  to  death  with  not  a  few  European  mission 
aries.  Though  many  of  the  methods  employed  by  the 
followers  of  Loyola,  Dominic,  and  Francis  may  be  open  to 
criticism,  their  ability  and  influence  are  beyond  question, 
and  their  zeal  was  both  an  inspiration  and  reproof  to  many. 
Their  success  in  living  in  inland  China,  in  spite  of  every 
obstacle,  was,  as  we  shall  see,  one  of  Hudson  Taylor's  strong 
arguments  for  Protestant  missionaries  doing  the  same. 

In  1807,  eight  years  before  the  Battle  of  Waterloo  brought 
peace  to  Europe,  Dr.  Morrison  sailed  for  China  in  connection 
with  the  London  Missionary  Society,  as  the  first  Protestant 
missionary  to  that  great  land.  At  this  time  the  East  India 
Company  had  the  monopoly  of  all  trade  in  the  Far  East, 
and  in  consequence  of  their  opposition  to  missionary  work 
he  was  compelled  to  travel  via  America.  For  twenty-seven 
years,  with  only  one  furlough,  he  laboured  on  practically 
alone,  for  Milne,  who  reached  China  in  1813  and  died  in  1822, 
was  not  allowed  to  reside  either  at  Canton  or  Macao.  In 
1834,  tne  same  year  as  the  East  India  Company's  Charter 
expired,  Morrison  died,  having  left  behind  him  for  the  use 
of  his  successors  a  Chinese  and  English  dictionary,  the  whole 
of  the  Bible  translated  into  the  Chinese  language,  and  the 
Anglo-Chinese  College  established  at  Malacca.  These  tasks 
had  been  accomplished  almost  single-handed,  in  the  face  of 
almost  every  discouragement  short  of  violent  expulsion 
from  the  country. 

Shortly  before  his  death  he  had  been  cheered  by  the 
arrival  at  Canton  and  Macao  of  three  American  workers — 
Bridgman,  the  founder  of  The  Chinese  Repository ;  Wells- 
Williams,  the  author  of  The  Middle  Kingdom,  and  Abeel. 
China  was  still  closed  to  the  Gospel,  and  the  London  Mission 
ary  Society  was  compelled  to  carry  on  its  work  for  the 
Chinese  in  the  Malay  Peninsula,  under  the  title  of  the  Ultra 
Gangees  Mission.  The  remarkable  journeys  of  Karl  Gutzlaff 


6  INTRODUCTORY 

along  the  coast  of  China,  in  Chinese  junks  and  other  vessels, 
during  the  years  1831  to  1835,  aroused  the  greatest  interest 
in  England  and  America,  and  indirectly  led  to  the  formation 
of  the  Chinese  Evangelization  Society,  which  sent  out 
Hudson  Taylor. 

The  cessation  of  the  East  India  Company's  Charter  in 
1834,  "the  subsequent  competition  in  trade,  and  especially  in 
the  opium  traffic,  with  the  misunderstandings  between  the 
Chinese  Government  and  Lord  Napier,  who  now  as  an 
official  of  the  British  Crown  claimed  equal  rank  with  the 
Viceroy  of  Canton,  soon  gave  rise  to  conditions  which  only 
needed  time  and  occasion  to  develop  into  war.  That  occa 
sion  came  when  Commissioner  Lin,  in  his  determination  to 
crush  the  illegal  opium  trade,  blockaded  the  foreign  factories 
and  burnt  20,283  chests  of  opium,  valued  at  two  million 
pounds  sterling. 

It  is  not  possible  wholly  to  exonerate  either  party  in 
respect  to  the  war  that  followed.  England  had  been  almost 
unbearably  provoked  by  China's  contempt  and  obscurantism, 
while  China's  suspicions  had  been  in  part,  at  least,  justified 
by  the  evils  of  the  opium  traffic.  No  matter  how  many 
factors  conspired  to  make  up  the  total  of  ill-will  which 
developed  into  war,  the  conflict  itself,  in  its  last  issue,  centred 
around  the  opium  problem,  and  in  consequence  that  war 
will,  to  the  end  of  time,  be  not  unnaturally  known,  to  our 
disgrace,  as  the  first  opium  war. 

As  a  result  of  this  war,  Hongkong  was  ceded  to  the 
British  in  1841,  and  by  the  Treaty  of  Nanking,  signed  in 
the  following  year,  the  five  Ports  of  Canton,  Amoy,  Shanghai, 
Ningpo,  and  Foochow  were  thrown  open  to  trade.  At  the 
time  of  Dr.  Morrison's  death  there  had  been  only  two  mis 
sionaries  actually  residing  on  Chinese  soil,  Messrs.  Bridgman 
and  Wells- Williams,  both  of  the  American  Board.  In  the 
same  year,  however,  Dr.  Peter  Parker,  the  founder  of  Medical 
Missions  in  China,  and  the  Rev.  Edwin  Stevens  reached 
Canton.  With  the  opening  of  the  Treaty  Ports  named 
above,  there  was  immediately  a  forward  movement,  and 
from  that  time  these  five  ports,  with  Hongkong,  became  new 
centres  of  missionary  activity. 


EARLY  MISSIONS  TO  CHINA       ,  7 

When  the  Treaty  was  signed  in  1842  there  were  thirty- 
two  persons  actively  engaged  in  work  among  the  Chinese, 
either  in  China  or  in  the  Straits  Settlements.  Most  of  these 
naturally  availed  themselves  of  the  newly  opened  doors, 
and  transferred  their  work  direct  to  Chinese  soil.  Such  in 
brief  was  the  situation  when  the  burden  of  China  began  to 
be  laid  upon  the  heart  of  young  Hudson  Taylor. 


II 

HUDSON   TAYLOR  AND   HIS   CALL 

IN  1832  James  Hudson  Taylor  was  born  at  Barnsley  in 
Yorkshire.  Before  his  birth  his  father  had  been  deeply 
moved  in  regard  to  the  spiritual  needs  of  China,  in  conse 
quence  of  reading  several  books  upon  that  country,  and 
especially  one  by  Captain  Basil  Hall.  Being  prevented 
himself  from  going  out  as  a  missionary,  he  and  his  wife 
definitely  prayed  that  if  God  should  give  them  a  son,  that  son 
might  dedicate  his  life  to  that  great  land.  This  hope  was 
treasured  up  within  their  hearts,  and  never  mentioned  even 
to  that  son  until  he  had  been  more  than  seven  years  in  the 
foreign  field.  The  call,  if  there  was  to  be  one,  must  come 
direct  from  God  Himself. 

Hudson  Taylor,  brought  up  amid  the  helpful  influences 
of  a  godly  home,  early  had  his  heart  softened  towards  things 
Divine,  and  though  he  passed  through  a  period  of  spiritual 
indifference,  and  even  of  scepticism,  about  the  age  of  sixteen, 
he  definitely  accepted  the  atoning  work  of  Christ  on  his 
behalf  in  June  1849,  when  seventeen  years  of  age.  It  was 
not  many  months  after  this  decisive  experience  ere  he  heard 
the  Call  of  God  for  the  Mission  Field.  Having  a  leisure 
afternoon,  he  retired  to  his  own  room  for  a  time  of  com 
munion  with  God. 

"  Well  do  I  remember  that  occasion/'  he  wrote  in  later  years, 
"  how  in  the  gladness  of  my  heart  I  poured  out  my  soul  before  God, 
and  again  and  again  confessed  my  grateful  love  to  Him  who  had  done 
everything  for  me — who  had  saved  me  when  I  had  given  up  all  hope 
and  even  desire  for  salvation.  I  besought  Him  to  give  me  some  work 

8 


HUDSON  TAYLOR  AND  HIS  CALL  9 

to  do  for  Him,  as  an  outlet  for  love  and  gratitude  ;  some  self-denying 
service,  no  matter  what  it  might  be,  however  trying  and  trivial ;  some 
thing  with  which  He  would  be  pleased  and  that  I  might  do  for  Him 
who  had  done  so  much  for  me.  Well  do  I  remember,  as  in  unreserved 
consecration  I  put  myself,  my  life,  my  friends,  my  all,  upon  the  altar, 
the  deep  solemnity  that  came  over  my  soul  with  the  assurance  that 
my  offering  was  accepted.  The  presence  of  God  became  unutterably 
real  and  blessed  ;  and  though  but  a  child  ...  I  remember  stretching 
myself  on  the  ground  and  lying  there  silent  before  Him  with  unspeak 
able  awe  and  unspeakable  joy." 

Although  from  this  time  forth  he  felt  the  Call  of  God 
upon  him,  and  not  free  to  accept  other  openings  in  life  which 
were  offered  to  him,  he  did  not  then  know  for  what  service 
he  had  been  accepted.  Before  the  year  1849  closed,  how 
ever,  the  claims  of  China  had  been  laid  heavily  upon  him. 
At  that  time  there  were  but  few  books  upon  that  country 
which  were  accessible,  but  he  succeeded  in  borrowing  a  copy 
of  Dr.  Medhurst's  China,  the  perusal  of  which  strengthened 
his  sense  of  China's  need,  and  at  the  same  time  impressed 
him  with  the  value  of  Medical  Missions.  This  impression 
directed  the  course  of  his  studies  during  the  next  two  or 
three  years. 

But  the  Call  of  God  to  China  was  to  be  even  more  definite 
yet.  It  came  to  him,  so  wrote  his  mother  in  her  little  book 
of  recollections,  as  definitely  as  if  a  voice  had  spoken  the 
words,  r<  Then  go  for  Me  to  China."  Concerning  this 
experience  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  himself  : 

Never  shall  I  forget  the  feeling  that  came  over  me  then.  Words 
can  never  describe  it.  I  felt  I  was  in  the  presence  of  God,  entering 
into  covenant  with  the  Almighty.  I  felt  as  though  I  wished  to  with 
draw  my  promise,  but  could  not.  Something  seemed  to  say,  "  Your 
prayer  is  answered,  your  conditions  are  accepted."  And  from  that 
time  the  conviction  never  left  me  that  I  was  called  to  China. 

Nearly  four  years  were  yet  to  elapse  ere  he  set  sail  for  that 
distant  land,  and  these  years  were  to  be  full  of  spiritual  and 
intellectual  preparation.  He  was  to  be  brought  so  to 
subject  his  will  to  God  as  to  be  willing,  on  account  of  family 
claims,  to  remain  at  home.  He  was  to  be  tested  through  his 
affectionate  nature  as  to  whether  this  call  to  the  foreign 


io  INTRODUCTORY 

field,  or  the  heart  of  the  lover,  should  govern  his  conduct. 
He  was,  through  many  and  varied  experiences,  some  of 
which  sounded  the  very  depths  of  his  soul,  to  prove  the 
power  of  prayer  to  move  the  arm  of  God.  He  was  to  learn 
many  real  lessons  of  faith  in  God,  in  whom  both  he  and  those 
who  subsequently  joined  him  were  to  put  their  tmst.  In 
the  midst  of  such  lessons  on  the  deepest  things  of  the  Spirit 
he  steadily  and  hopefully  continued  his  medical  and  other 
studies. 

And  all  this  time  the  call  to  China  was  sounding  louder 
and  louder  in  his  ears.  In  the  spring  of  1850  a  magazine 
entitled  The  Gleaner  in  the  Mission  Field  began  to  be  pub 
lished,  in  order  to  give  the  latest  tidings  of  Dr.  Gutzlaff  and 
his  workers  in  China.  The  information  thus  supplied  was 
eagerly  devoured  by  the  would-be  worker  in  that  field,  and 
through  this  medium  he  was  introduced  to  the  Chinese 
Evangelization  Society,  under  which  organization  he  was 
ere  long  to  set  forth.  All  his  correspondence  at  this  time 
reveals  how  heavily  the  burden  of  China  had  been  laid  upon 
his  heart.  The  zeal  of  the  Lord  literally  consumed  him,  and 
we  find  him  in  1852  writing  to  his  mother  in  the  following 
strain  : 

Oh  Mother,  I  cannot  tell  you,  I  cannot  describe  how  I  long  to  be 
a  missionary ;  to  carry  the  Glad  Tidings  to  poor  perishing  sinners  ; 
to  spend  and  to  be  spent  for  Him  who  died  for  me.  I  feel  as  if  for  this 
I  could  give  up  everything,  every  idol,  however  dear.  ...  I  feel  as  if 
I  could  not  live  if  something  is  not  done  for  China. 

Thus  burdened,  and  with  the  flame  of  sacred  love  burning 
in  his  heart,  he  prayed  and  sought  to  know  God's  Will  as  to 
the  channel  through  which  he  should  set  forth,  for  Go  he 
must,  whether  he  went  unsupported  or  not.  The  Societies 
which  then  had  work  abroad  were  thought  of,  but  of  them 
he  wrote  in  1850  to  his  sister  : 

The  Wesleyans  have  no  station  in  China.  The  Established  Church 
have  one  or  two,  but  I  am  not  a  Churchman.  The  Baptists  and  In 
dependents  have  stations  there,  but  I  do  not  hold  their  views. 

Thus  exercised  he  was  the  more  cast  upon  God  for  guid 
ance,  and  He,  in  whose  hands  are  all  our  ways,  led  him  to 


HUDSON  TAYLOR  AND  HIS  CALL  n 

offer  to  the  Chinese  Evangelization  Society.  By  them  he 
was  gladly  accepted,  and  on  September  19,  1853,  as  a  young 
man  of  only  twenty-one,  he  set  sail  from  Liverpool  in  the 
sailing  ship  Dumfries,  a  vessel  of  scarcely  470  tons  burden. 
After  a  voyage  of  over  five  months,  beset  at  times  with  almost 
overwhelming  dangers,  he  safely  landed  at  Shanghai  on 
March  i,  1854. 


Ill 

HUDSON   TAYLOR'S   EARLY   EXPERIENCES 

FROM  that  spring  day  in  1854,  when  Hudson  Taylor  landed 
in  Shanghai,  to  the  midsummer  of  1860,  when  he  embarked 
for  England,  the  future  founder  of  the  China  Inland  Mission 
was  to  pass  through  a  period  of  severe  missionary  probationer- 
ship,  all-important  to  himself  and  to  the  future  work.  Into 
these  nearly  six  and  a  half  years  were  to  be  crowded  many 
and  varied  experiences,  all  of  which  were  to  test  and  prove 
the  man  as  well  as  the  principles  upon  which  he  was  to 
establish  that  Mission.  The  period  therefore  was  one  of 
fundamental  importance,  and  there  is  a  natural  temptation 
to  tell  somewhat  in  detail  the  story  of  these  years,  so  pregnant 
with  great  issues,  but  as  the  story  has  already  been  so  fully 
told  elsewhere,1  we  must  content  ourselves  with  briefly 
summarizing  some  of  the  outstanding  facts  and  lessons. 

Distance  was  a  formidable  reality  in  1854,  when  Hudson 
Taylor  first  reached  Shanghai.  The  Suez  Canal  had,  of 
course,  not  been  opened,  and  ocean-going  steamers,  with  the 
exception  of  an  occasional  gunboat,  were  almost  unknown 
in  Eastern  waters.  Japan  was  as  yet  a  closely  sealed 
country,  and  telegraphic  communication  with  the  Far  East 
was  not  even  partially  established  until  ten  years  later. 
Those  were  the  days  of  the  sailing  vessels,  of  the  famous 
tea-clippers,  and,  sad  to  say,  of  the  armed  opium  schooners, 
with  their  sinister  traffic.  Letters  to  China  cost  2s.  8d.  per 
half  ounce,  and  the  charges  on  each  separate  paper  was  6d. 

1  A  Retrospect,  by  J.  Hudson  Taylor  ;  and  Hudson  Taylor  in  Early 
Years,  by  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Howard  Taylor. 

12 


HUDSON  TAYLOR'S  EARLY  EXPERIENCES     13 

Up  to  1846  ten  months  had  been  necessary  to  get  an  answer 
to  a  letter  from  China,  but  though  this  period  had  been 
considerably  shortened,  for  the  mails,  when  Hudson  Taylor 
sailed,  he  must  have  felt  keenly  his  isolation  when  he  stepped 
ashore  at  Shanghai,  an  unknown  and  unwelcomed  stranger. 

And  as  to  the  country  itself,  he  was  to  find  this  in  no 
suitable  state  for  residence.  The  Taiping  Rebellion,  which 
had  broken  out  in  1850,  and  had  in  its  earlier  stages  inspired 
the  hope  within  many  hearts  that  it  would  prove  to  be  a  mass 
movement  toward  Christianity,  had  begun  to  degenerate  into 
a  cruel  and  sanguinary  movement,  which  was  for  the  next 
ten  years  to  devastate  the  fairest  provinces  of  China,  and 
result  in  the  loss  of  millions  of  lives.  Shanghai  itself  had 
fallen  into  the  hands  of  a  band  of  rebels,  known  as  the  Red- 
Turbans,  while  an  army  of  from  forty  thousand  to  fifty 
thousand  Imperial  troops  had  infested  the  city,  to  the 
no  small  danger  and  discomfort  of  the  little  European 
community. 

Under  such  circumstances  living  outside  of  the  Settle 
ment  was  impossible,  yet  within  that  limited  and  privileged 
area  accommodation  was  scarcely  to  be  had  at  any  price. 
To  make  matters  worse,  the  dollar  had  risen  to  an  almost 
prohibitive  figure,  so  that  the  prospects  of  the  new  arrival, 
who  had  only  a  small  income  in  English  money,  were  dark 
indeed.  Of  two  friends,  to  whom  he  had  letters  of  intro 
duction,  one  was  dead  and  the  other  had  left  the  country, 
but  through  the  third  and  last  letter,  addressed  to  Dr. 
Medhurst,  he  was  introduced  to  Dr.  Lockhart,  who  most 
kindly  allowed  him  to  live  with  him  for  a  period  of  six 
months. 

Upon  the  expiration  of  these  six  months,  which  had  been 
assiduously  devoted  to  study,  he  moved  into  the  Chinese 
city,  although  such  a  step  was  attended  with  no  little  danger. 
It  was  only  for  a  few  months,  however,  that  this  attempt  to 
live  among  the  people  was  practicable,  for  when  the  French 
joined  the  Imperialists  in  attacking  the  city,  he  was  obliged  to 
return  to  the  Foreign  Settlement. 

"  Of  the  trial  of  this  early  period/'  he  subsequently  wrote,  "it  is 
scarcely  possible  to  convey  any  adequate  idea.  To  one  of  a  sensitive 


i4  INTRODUCTORY 

nature,  the  horrors,  atrocities,  and  misery  connected  with  war  were  a 
terrible  ordeal.  The  embarrassment,  also,  of  the  times  was  consider 
able.  With  an  income  of  only  eighty  pounds  a  year,  I  was  compelled, 
upon  moving  into  the  Settlement,  to  give  one  hundred  and  twenty 
for  rent,  and  sublet  half  the  house.  .  .  .  Few  can  realize  how  distressing 
to  so  young  and  untried  a  worker  these  difficulties  seemed,  or  the 
intense  loneliness  of  the  position  of  a  pioneer  who  could  not  even  hint 
at  many  of  his  circumstances,  as  to  do  so  would  have  been  a  tacit 
appeal  for  help." 

Such  were  some  of  the  adverse  conditions  under  which 
the  young  missionary  entered  upon  his  new  sphere  of  service, 
and  in  which  he  had  in  a  very  practical  way  to  learn  to  lean 
upon  his  God.  Nothing  daunted,  however,  he  steadily 
faced  the  appointed  task,  and  in  the  autumn  of  his  first  year 
set  forth,  in  company  with  Dr.  Edkins,  on  his  first  missionary 
journey.  The  greater  part  of  the  next  year,  too,  was  de 
voted  to  a  series  of  extensive  and  arduous  journeys,  some 
times  in  company  with  the  Rev.  J.  S.  Burdon,  afterwards 
Bishop  of  Victoria,  Hongkong,  with  whom  he  endured  no 
little  rough  handling  from  some  of  the  mobs  encountered. 
It  was  at  this  time  that  he  was  led  to  adopt  the  Chinese  dress, 
a  custom  which,  in  consequence  of  its  manifest  advantages 
for  living  and  working  inland,  became,  with  a  few  exceptions, 
general  in  later  years  throughout  the  Mission. 

Toward  the  close  of  1855,  in  consequence  of  consular 
instructions  forbidding  him  to  settle  on  Tsungming  island, 
where  he  had  successfully  rented  premises,  he  was  obliged, 
with  a  sad  heart,  to  return  to  Shanghai.  This  prohibition, 
disappointing  as  it  was  at  the  time,  was  instrumental  in 
bringing  him  into  contact  with  the  Rev.  William  Burns,  of 
the  English  Presbyterian  Mission,  with  whom  he  was  to  be 
closely  associated  for  some  seven  months.  Together  these 
two  workers  engaged  at  first  in  evangelizing  many  cities 
and  towns  in  southern  Kiangsu  and  northern  Chekiang, 
and  later,  in  similar  work  in  the  city  of  Swatow. 

These  months  of  fellowship  with  so  experienced  a  Christian 
and  soul-winner  were  of  great  value  to  Hudson  Taylor  at 
this  formative  period  of  his  life.  Writing  in  later  years  of 
those  days,  he  said  : 


HUDSON  TAYLOR'S  EARLY  EXPERIENCES     15 

Those  happy  months  were  an  unspeakable  joy  and  privilege  to  me. 
His  love  for  the  Word  was  delightful,  and  his  holy  and  reverential  life 
and  constant  communings  with  God  made  fellowship  with  him  satisfy 
ing  to  the  deep  cravings  of  my  heart.  His  accounts  of  revival  work 
and  of  persecution  in  Canada  and  Dublin,  and  in  Southern  China  were 
most  instructive,  as  well  as  interesting  ;  for  with  true  spiritual  insight 
he  often  pointed  out  God's  purpose  in  trial  in  a  way  that  made  all  life 
assume  quite  a  new  aspect  and  value.  His  views,  especially  about 
evangelism  as  the  great  work  of  the  Church,  and  the  order  of  lay 
evangelists  as  a  lost  order  that  Scripture  required  to  be  restored,  were 
seed-thoughts  which  were  to  prove  fruitful  in  the  subsequent  organiza 
tion  of  the  China  Inland  Mission. 

When  in  July  1856  Hudson  Taylor  left  Swatow  to  fetch 
his  medical  outfit  from  Shanghai,  he  had  hoped  soon  to  re 
join  Mr.  Burns.  But  this  was  not  to  be.  Upon  reaching 
Shanghai,  he  was  distressed  to  learn  that  all  his  medical 
instruments  and  stores  had  been  destroyed  by  fire.  Hoping 
to  obtain  a  fresh  supply  from  his  colleague,  Dr.  Parker,  he 
set  off  for  Ningpo,  but  on  this  journey  was  robbed  of  all  his 
possessions,  valued  at  about  £40.  This  trying  experience  was 
overruled  of  God  to  affect  his  future  in  more  ways  than  one. 

In  the  first  place  it  delayed  his  immediate  return  to 
Swatow,  which  was  providential.  For  some  years  past 
there  had  been  strained  relations  at  Canton  between  the 
Chinese  and  foreigners,  and  Lord  Palmerston  had  resolved 
"  to  take  advantage  of  the  first  occasion  to  coerce  the  Chinese 
into  relations  of  a  normal  character."  The  seizure  by  the 
Chinese  of  the  lorcha  Arrow,  and  the  hauling  down  of  the 
British  Flag,  which  it  was  illegally  flying,  gave  the  occasion, 
and  from  that  date,  in  October  1856,  until  the  ratification, 
at  Peking  in  October  1860,  of  the  Treaty  of  Tientsin,  signed 
two  years  before,  an  almost  continuous  state  of  hostilities 
continued  between  the  two  nations. 

Under  such  circumstances  a  return  to  the  south  was  im 
practicable  and  dangerous,  and,  moreover,  William  Burns 
had  been  arrested  and  sent  to  Canton.  Thus  was  his  way 
hedged  in  until  there  seemed  no  other  course  open  for  him 
but  to  return  to  Ningpo  and  unite  in  service  with  his 
brethren,  Dr.  Parker  and  Mr.  John  Jones  of  the  Chinese 
Evangelization  Society.  And  indeed,  the  same  Spirit  who 


16  INTRODUCTORY 

suffered  not  St.  Paul  to  go  into  Bithynia  was  guiding  the 
footsteps  of  Hudson  Taylor  also,  for  the  three  and  a  half 
years  of  more  settled  work  in  Ningpo  which  followed  were 
to  play  no  unimportant  part  in  his  preparation  for  future 
leadership.  And  even  his  robbery  upon  the  road  was  not 
without  its  blessings,  for  his  policy  of  not  prosecuting  the 
man  who  had  robbed  him  so  commended  itself  to  a  Christian 
in  England  as  to  secure  the  lasting  friendship  of  one  who  was 
to  be  a  generous  donor  for  years  to  come. 

These  years  at  Ningpo  were  lived  in  the  midst  of  troublous 
times,  as  has  been  suggested  above.  The  bombardment  of 
Canton  was  not  unnaturally  resented  by  the  Cantonese  living 
in  Ningpo,  and  only  the  guardian  hand  of  God  delivered  the 
little  band  of  workers  in  that  city  from  deliberately  planned 
massacre.  And  while  learning  to  trust  God  for  protection 
from  evil,  the  young  missionary  learned  to  trust  God  more 
fully  for  his  daily  bread.  It  was  during  this  period  (May 
1857) tnat  ne  and  Mr.  Jones  were  led  to  sever  their  connection 
with  the  Chinese  Evangelization  Society,  in  consequence 
of  that  organization  being  so  frequently  in  debt.  This 
separation,  which  took  place  without  the  least  breach  of 
friendly  feeling  on  either  side,  was  not  a  little  trying  to  faith, 
but  here  again  opportunity  was  afforded  of  testing  on  the 
field  the  principle  of  faith  in  God  for  temporal  supplies 
which  was  to  be  so  extensively  relied  upon  in  years  to  come. 
It  is  not  surprising,  therefore,  to  learn  that  it  was  at  this 
time  that  the  mottoes  of  "  Ebenezer "  and  "  Jehovah 
Jireh,"  which  have  meant  so  much  to  the  Mission  ever  since, 
were  apparently  adopted. 

In  January  1858,  Hudson  Taylor  was  married  to  Miss 
Maria  Dyer,  daughter  of  the  Rev.  Samuel  Dyer,  one  of  the 
early  representatives  of  the  London  Missionary  Society  in  the 
Far  East.  Blessed  with  such  a  helpmeet,  he  gave  all  his 
time  and  strength  to  evangelistic  work,  until,  in  1859  when 
Dr.  Parker  left  for  England,  he  took  over  the  care  of  the 
hospital  also.  Thus,  really  overwhelmed  with  work  and 
tried  by  sickness,  he  and  his  noble  wife  laboured  on,  proving 
God's  sufficiency  for  every  need,  in  the  midst  of  much  bitter 
anti-foreign  feeling,  which  at  times  threatened  life  itself. 


HUDSON  TAYLOR'S  EARLY  EXPERIENCES  17 

The  need  of  helpers  was,  of  course,  sorely  felt,  and  on 
January  16, 1860,  Hudson  Taylor  wrote  home  to  his  parents  : 

Do  you  know  any  earnest,  devoted  young  men  desirous  of  serving 
God  in  China,  who,  not  wishing  for  more  than  their  actual  support, 
would  be  willing  to  come  out  and  labour  here  ?  Oh  for  four  or  five 
such  helpers  !  They  would  probably  begin  to  preach  in  Chinese  in 
six  months'  time ;  and  in  answer  to  prayer  the  necessary  means  for 
their  support  would  be  found. 

But  this  was  not  to  be  yet.  The  incessant  physical  and 
mental  strain  involved  in  caring  for  a  growing  Church,  as 
well  as  the  hospital,  were  more  than  health  could  stand, 
and  by  the  summer  of  the  same  year  an  immediate  furlough 
became  necessary,  if  life  was  to  be  spared.  Hudson  Taylor 
was  therefore  under  the  painful  necessity  of  closing  the 
hospital,  and  of  leaving  the  little  company  of  from  thirty  to 
forty  Christians  who  had  been  gathered  together.  Taking 
with  him  a  young  Chinese  to  help  in  literary  work  at  home, 
he  and  his  wife  set  sail  for  England  (July  1860),  earnestly 
praying  that  through  their  home-going  God  would  raise  up 
fresh  labourers  for  the  needy  province  of  Chekiang. 


THE   FIRST   DECADE 

1865-1875 

CHAP.     4.  THE  BIRTH  OF  A  MISSION. 

„        5.  LAYING  THE  FOUNDATIONS. 

„        6.  THE  LAMMERMUIR  PARTY. 

„        7.  SETTLING  INLAND. 

„        8.  AN  ENLARGED  COAST. 

„        9.  THE  YANGCHOW  RIOT. 

„      10.  Two  NEW  PROVINCES. 

„      IT.  TROUBLED  ON  EVERY  SIDE. 

„      12.  FAINT  YET  PURSUING. 

„      13.  THE  HOME  DEPARTMENT. 

„      14.  WAXING  STRONG  IN  FAITH. 


It  is  not  easy  everywhere,  especially  in  England,  to  set  about  doing 
what  no  one  has  done  before.  Many  people  will  undergo  considerable 
risks,  even  that  of  death  itself,  when  they  know  that  they  are  engaged  in 
a  cause  which,  besides  approving  itself  to  their  consciences,  commands 
sympathy  and  approval,  when  they  know  that  their  motives  are  ap 
preciated  and  their  conduct  applauded.  But  in  this  case  custom  was  to 
be  violated,  precedent  broken  through,  the  surprise,  sometimes  the  censure, 
of  the  world  to  be  braved.  And  do  not  underrate  that  obstacle.  We 
hardly  know  the  strength  of  those  social  ties  that  bind  us  until  the  moment 
when  we  attempt  to  break  them. 

FLORENCE  NIGHTINGALE. 


What  I  have  to  tell  you  illustrates  two  truths,  which  are,  to  my 
mind,  confirmed  by  the  inner  history  of  all  vital  evolutions  of  which  we 
know  anything  in  the  past  history  of  the  human  race.  The  first  of  these 
two  truths  or  principles  is,  that  in  order  to  produce  a  movement  of  a  vital 
spiritual  nature  some  one  must  suffer,  some  one  must  go  through  sore  travail 
of  soul  before  a  living  movement,  outwardly  visible,  can  be  born.  .  .  . 

The  second  truth  which,  I  think,  is  illustrated  by  our  experience  is 
this  :  a  movement  which  is  of  God,  of  divine  origin,  and  which  is  rooted 
in  the  will  of  Him  who  is  the  God  of  Justice,  is  and  must  be  preceded  by 
prayer.  It  must  have  its  origin  in  His  own  inspiration. 

JOSEPHINE  E.  BUTLER. 


IV 
THE  BIRTH   OF  A   MISSION 

MUCH  of  the  world's  work  is  done  by  pent-up  forces.  The 
steam  which  drives  the  engine  does  so  because  it  is  conserved 
and  fettered.  Its  very  limitations  are  the  secret  of  its 
power.  And  this  is  sometimes  true  in  human  life.  What 
are  the  yearnings  of  the  heart  but  the  pent-up  forces  of  love. 
And  nothing  can  so  intensify  these  as  to  hedge  in  their 
activities.  This  was  to  be  the  experience  of  Hudson  Taylor 
now. 

The  call  of  God  and  the  needs  of  China  had  brought  him 
out  from  home  to  the  land  of  his  adoption,  and  there,  face 
to  face  with  the  actual  facts  of  heathenism,  he  had  realized 
as  never  before  how  unutterably  real  were  China's  spiritual 
need  and  claims.  With  an  unreserved  devotion  he  had 
thrown  himself  into  the  midst  of  the  conflict,  and  had 
undoubtedly  found  no  small  relief  in  the  joys  of  active 
service. 

But  now  that  outlet  for  his  passionate  love  was  to  be 
stopped  through  failing  health.  The  little  group  of  Chinese 
converts,  to  whom  he  had  become  so  attached,  must  be  left 
behind,  as  well  as  the  unevangelized  millions.  To  Hudson 
Taylor  this  failure  of  health  seemed  nothing  less  than  a 
great  calamity,  and  his  only  relief  was  to  be  found  in  earnest 
pleadings  with  God.  But  He  who  orders  all  our  ways  was 
planning  for  His  servant  far  more  wisely  than  could  then 
be  seen. 

The  day  before  leaving  China  Mr.  Taylor  had  written 
to  his  kind  friend,  Mr.  W.  T.  Berger,  saying  : 

21 


22  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

We  are  bringing  a  young  Chinese  brother  with  us,  to  assist  in 
translating,  and,  I  hope,  to  assist  in  teaching  the  dialect  to  fellow- 
workers,  if  the  Lord  induces  any  to  return  with  us. 

And  all  the  way  throughout  the  voyage  home,  he  and  his 
wife  had  prayed  that  God  would  make  this  enforced  furlough 
the  means  of  raising  up  at  least  five  helpers  to  labour  in 
Ningpo  and  the  province  of  Chekiang.  The  larger  needs  of 
inland  China  had  not  then  begun  to  press  upon  him  as  a 
practical  problem.  That  was  to  come,  as  we  shall  see. 
Meanwhile,  the  prayer  was  for  "  at  least  five  helpers  "  for 
the  needs  of  Ningpo  and  locality,  and  in  this  he  was  to 
prove  that  prayer  was  God's  method  for  calling  forth 
labourers  as  well  as  for  obtaining  funds  to  support  them. 

When  Mr.  Taylor  first  reached  England  he  did  not 
anticipate  any  lengthened  stay,  but  medical  opinion  soon 
assured  him  that  any  return  to  China  for  some  years  was 
impossible.  Saddened  and  perplexed  by  such  a  prospect, 
he  settled  in  East  London,  where  he  devoted  himself,  with 
the  Rev.  F.  F.  Gough  of  the  Church  Missionary  Society,  to 
the  revision  of  a  version  of  the  New  Testament  in  the  Ningpo 
colloquial,  as  well  as  to  the  completion  of  his  medical  studies 
at  the  London  Hospital,  when  he  took  his  M.R.C.S.  degree. 

During  this  same  period  of  study  and  literary  work  he 
was  brought  into  contact  with  some  whose  hearts  were  being 
drawn  towards  China.  These  were  invited  to  come  and 
spend  some  time  beneath  his  roof,  and  there  through  personal 
contact  and  their  success  in  the  study  of  Chinese,  their  fitness 
for  the  field  was  tested. 

And  prayer  was  answered,  for  from  that  home  in  East 
London  the  workers  asked  of  God  for  the  little  Ningpo 
Mission  all  set  forth.  The  first  of  these  were  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Meadows,  who  sailed  in  January  1862,  while  the  last  three 
sailed  in  April  1865.  These  were  the  forerunners  of  many 
hundreds  who  were  to  follow  in  later  years. 

While  these  practical  illustrations  of  answered  prayer 
were  being  given, — and  the  detailed  story  of  these  years 
shows  how  fully  God  was  guiding, — Hudson  Taylor  was 
being  trained  of  God  in  another  school  for  his  future  re 
sponsibilities. 


THE  BIRTH  OF  A  MISSION  23 

"  While  in  the  field/'  he  wrote,  "  the  pressure  of  claims  immediately 
around  me  was  so  great  that  I  could  not  think  much  of  the  still  greater 
needs  of  regions  farther  inland  ;  and  if  they  were  thought  of ,  could  do 
nothing  for  them.  But  while  detained  for  some  years  in  England, 
daily  viewing  the  whole  country  on  the  large  map  on  the  wall  of  my 
study,  I  was  as  near  to  the  vast  regions  of  Inland  China  as  the  smaller 
districts  in  which  I  had  laboured  personally  for  God  ;  and  prayer  was 
often  the  only  resource  by  which  the  burdened  heart  could  gain  any 
relief." 

At  the  same  time  as  this  wider  vision  of  China's  need  was 
being  given,  a  deeper  insight  into  God's  purpose  was  being 
gained.  The  message  to  Israel  of  old  was  coming  home  to 
him—"  Enlarge  the  place  of  thy  tent,  and  let  them  stretch 
forth  the  curtains  of  thine  habitations  ;  spare  not,  lengthen 
thy  cords  and  strengthen  thy  stakes."  The  daily  sight  of 
that  map  of  China,  with  its  vast  unevangelized  regions,  came 
as  a  daily  call  to  lengthen  the  cords,  while  the  daily  study 
of  God's  Word  for  the  purposes  of  translation  was  a  daily 
lesson  in  strengthening  the  stakes. 

"  In  undertaking  this  (translation)  work,  in  my  shortsightedness," 
he  wrote,  "  I  saw  nothing  beyond  the  use  that  Book,  and  the  marginal 
references,  would  be  to  the  native  Christians  ;  but  I  have  often  seen 
since  that,  without  those  months  of  feeding  and  feasting  on  the  Word 
of  God,  I  should  have  been  quite  unprepared  to  form,  on  its  present 
basis,  a  Mission  like  the  China  Inland  Mission. 

"  In  the  study  of  the  Divine  Word  I  learned  that  to  obtain  successful 
labourers,  not  elaborate  appeals  for  help,  but  first,  earnest  prayer  to 
God  to  thrust  forth  labourers,  and,  second,  the  deepening  of  the 
spiritual  life  of  the  Church,  so  that  men  should  be  unable  to  stay  at 
home,  were  what  was  needed.  I  saw  that  the  Apostolic  plan  was 
not  to  raise  ways  and  means,  but  to  go  and  do  the  work,  trusting 
in  the  sure  word,  which  had  said,  '  Seek  ye  first  the  Kingdom  of 
God  and  His  righteousness,  and  all  these  things  shall  be  added  unto 
you.'  " 

It  was  during  this  period  when  Hudson  Taylor  was 
engaged  in  study,  in  the  translation  of  the  Scriptures,  and 
constant  prayer  for  China,  that  a  request  came  from  the 
Rev.  W.  G.  Lewis  of  Bayswater,  the  Editor  of  the  Baptist 
Missionary  Magazine,  for  a  series  of  articles  on  China. 
This  seemed  to  be  God's  opening  for  placing  the  facts 


24  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

before  the  public,  but  the  subject  proved  greater  than  had 
been  anticipated,  and  what  was  commenced  for  this  magazine 
grew  into  a  book  of  over  one  hundred  pages.  The  detailed 
study  of  the  facts,  which  was  necessary  for  the  writing 
of  this  book,  only  fanned  the  flame  of  zeal  within  the 
heart  of  the  writer,  and  though  the  final  results  were  not 
published  until  October  1865,  the  many  months  of  prayerful 
pondering  over  the  needs  of  China — for  the  book  was  more 
than  a  year  in  preparation — played  an  important  part  in 
leading  up  to  the  momentous  decision  at  Brighton  in  June 
1865. 

It  was  evident  that  all  his  experiences  were  heading  up 
to  a  crisis.  He  had  been  much  exercised  as  to  whether  he 
ought  not  to  join  one  or  other  of  the  existing  Missionary 
Societies,  and  he  had  approached  the  leading  Missions  in 
England  in  regard  to  the  needs  of  Inland  China.  But  their 
hands  were  already  full,  funds  were  short,  and,  moreover, 
Inland  China  was  regarded  at  that  time  as  closed.  While 
engaged  in  prayer  and  conference  with  his  friend  and  fellow- 
worker,  the  Rev.  F.  F.  Gough,  and  also  with  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Berger,  and  his  own  wife,  the  growing  conviction  laid  hold 
upon  him  that  God  would  have  him  venture  forth  himself  in 
faith.1  On  June  i,  1865,  he  wrote  to  his  mother  from  East 
Grinstead  : 

I  desire,  if  the  Lord  will,  to  get  four  missionaries,  two  married  and 
two  single,  off  by  the  end  of  the  summer  or  the  beginning  of  the 
autumn.  ...  It  is  much  pressed  on  me  to  try  and  get  twenty  more 
European  missionaries  besides  these  four,  so  as  to  send  at  least  two 

1  In  the  discussions  connected  with  the  founding  of  the  Church  Mis 
sionary  Society,  it  was  decided  "  that,  if  clergymen  could  not  be  obtained, 
laymen  should  be  employed  as  catechist  to  teach  the  Gospel  to  the  heathen. 
The  remark  of  Mr.  Venn,  in  reply  to  an  alleged  objection  that  such  a 
proceeding  would  violate  Church  order,  was  this  :  '  I  would  sacrifice  a 
great  deal  to  preserve  Church  order,  but  not  the  salvation  of  souls.'  " — 
Memoirs  of  Rev.  Henry  Venn,  Secretary  Church  Missionary  Society. 

"  Wesley's  conviction  of  the  importance  and  necessity  of  the  lay 
ministry  had  been  deepened  since  the  last  session.  Providential  circum 
stances  every  day  rendered  it  more  evident  that  the  great  religious  interest 
which  had  begun  in  the  land  must  be  conducted  forward  chiefly  by  that 
agency  or  be  generally  abandoned.  Next  to  revelation  itself,  such  pro 
vidential  indications  were  decisive  to  Wesley's  judgment." — Stevens' 
History  of  Methodism,  vol.  i.  p.  246. 


THE  BIRTH  OF  A  MISSION  25 

into  each  province  of  China  Proper  in  which  there  is  no  missionary, 
and  two  into  Chinese  Tartary  ;  and  to  try  to  send  with  them  an  equal 
number  of  Chinese  helpers,  making  in  all  forty-eight  persons  (beside 
those  on  the  way)  requiring  support.  The  expense  of  these  would 
exceed  £5000  a  year.  Will  you  earnestly  pray  God  to  guide  me  aright 
whether  to  attempt  this  or  not  ? 

It  was  an  encouragement,  in  considering  this  great 
undertaking,  to  know  that  Mr.  Berger  had  promised  to  care 
for  the  work  at  home,  but  it  was  a  large  venture  of  faith,  and 
as  he  faced  all  that  was  involved,  while  he  was  bound  to 
confess  that  God  was  able,  he  yet  dreaded  the  responsibility. 
It  was  true  that  he  had  already  proved  God's  faithfulness  to 
himself  personally,  and  the  five  workers  prayed  for  had  been 
given  and  their  needs  supplied.  Yet  he  shrank  from  all 
that  was  involved  in  leadership,  and  held  back,  until  the 
hidden  fires  of  this  controversy  with  God  began  slowly  to 
undermine  his  health.  "  The  feeling  of  blood-guiltiness 
became  more  and  more  intense."  "  Perishing  China  so 
filled  my  heart,"  he  wrote,  "  that  there  was  no  rest  by  day 
and  little  sleep  by  night." 

It  was  while  he  was  in  this  state  of  heart  and  mind 
that  his  old  friend,  Mr.  George  Pearse,  concerned  about  his 
health,  invited  him  to  Brighton.  Concerning  the  crisis  which 
followed,  we  must  quote  Mr.  Taylor's  own  words.  These  are 
as  follows  : 

On  Sunday,  June  25th,  1865,  unable  to  bear  the  sight  of  a  congrega 
tion  of  a  thousand  or  more  Christian  people  rejoicing  in  their  own 
security,  while  millions  were  perishing  for  lack  of  knowledge,  I  wandered 
out  on  the  sands  alone,  in  great  spiritual  agony ;  and  there  the  Lord 
conquered  my  unbelief,  and  I  surrendered  myself  to  God  for  this 
service.  I  told  Him  that  all  the  responsibility  as  to  issues  and  con 
sequences  must  rest  with  Him ;  that  as  His  servant,  it  was  mine  to 
obey  and  to  follow  Him — His,  to  direct,  to  care  for,  and  to  guide  me 
and  those  who  might  labour  with  me.  Need  I  say  that  peace  at  once 
flowed  into  my  burdened  heart  ?  There  and  then  I  asked  Him  for 
twenty-four  fellow-workers,  two  for  each  of  the  eleven  inland  provinces 
which  were  without  a  missionary,  and  two  for  Mongolia  ;  and  writing 
the  petition  on  the  margin  of  the  Bible  I  had  with  me,  I  returned  home 
with  a  heart  enjoying  rest  such  as  it  had  been  a  stranger  to  for  months, 
and  with  an  assurance  that  the  Lord  would  bless  His  own  work,  and 
that  I  should  share  in  the  blessing. 


26  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

The  words  of  this  historic  petition  were  : 

Prayed  for  twenty -four  willing,  skilful  labourers  at  Brighton, 
June  25,  1865. 

The  Bible  in  which  these  words  were  recorded  still  exists, 
a  treasured  memorial  of  that  memorable  occasion  so  many 
years  ago. 

"  How  restfully  I  turned  from  the  shore/'  wrote  Mr.  Taylor,  "  when 
this  was  done.  The  conflict  was  all  ended.  Peace  and  gladness 
filled  my  soul.  I  felt  almost  like  flying  up  that  steep  hill  by  the 
station  to  Mr.  Pearse's  house,  and  how  I  did  sleep  that  night  !  My 
dear  wife  thought  that  Brighton  had  done  wonders  for  me  ;  and  so  it 
had  !  " 


LAYING  THE  FOUNDATIONS 

ON  that  day  at  Brighton  the  great  surrender  had  been 
made.  He  who  had  gladly  laboured  in  the  field,  and  longed 
that  others  should  do  so  also,  had,  after  a  period  of  severe 
spiritual  conflict,  yielded  himself  to  God  for  all  that  leader 
ship  of  a  new  enterprise  might  mean.  Five  workers  had 
gone  forth,  but  with  the  prospects  of  a  growing  work  it 
was  necessary  that  steps  should  be  taken  to  make  the  needs 
of  China  more  fully  known,  to  secure  the  prayerful  sympathy 
of  God's  people  at  home,  and  to  formulate  more  clearly  the 
principles  and  procedure  of  the  new  Mission. 

The  publication  of  the  articles  on  China,  under  the  title 
of  China's  Spiritual  Need  and  Claims,  to  which  reference 
was  made  in  the  last  chapter,  was  therefore  pushed  forward. 
In  this  book  the  whole  field  was  carefully  surveyed,  and  it 
was  shown  that  in  the  seven  provinces  in  which  work  had 
been  commenced,  there  were  204  millions  of  people  with 
only  91  workers,  while  there  were  eleven  other  provinces 
in  Inland  China  with  a  population  of  197  millions,  for  whom 
absolutely  nothing  had  been  attempted.  After  having 
carefully  set  forth  and  tabulated  these  facts  and  figures, 
the  needs  of  the  outlying  Dependencies  were  also  recounted. 
This  book,  as  all  who  have  read  it  will  know,  was  no  mere 
dry  summary  of  statistics.  The  fire  which  burned  within 
the  heart  of  the  writer  is  felt  at  almost  white  heat  on  every 
page.  The  needs,  the  possibilities,  the  facilities  for  work 
were  all  set  forth  in  reasoned  argument.  The  country  was 
accessible,  for  the  Treaty  of  1858,  ratified  at  Peking  in  1860, 

27 


28  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

had  in  Articles  VIII.,  IX.,  and  XII.  promised  religious 
liberty,  authorized  British  subjects  to  travel  inland,  and 
also  permitted  the  building  of  Churches  and  Hospitals. 
What  was  there  to  hinder  ?  Nothing,  apparently,  but  the 
apathy  and  indifference  of  so-called  followers  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Were  not  Roman  Catholics  already  living 
and  working  in  the  interior  ?  Then,  why  should  not 
Protestants  do  so  also  ?  This  argument  is  somewhat  fully 
referred  to  in  the  first  edition  of  the  book,  but  in  the  third 
edition,  issued  three  years  later,  the  contrast  of  these  two 
Churches  is  more  fully  set  forth  as  a  reproach  to  Protestant 
Christendom. 

"  We  refer  the  reader,"  he  writes,  "  to  the  deeply  important  paper 
appended  to  the  preface  to  this  (the  third)  edition — the  comparative 
table  of  statistics  of  Roman  Catholic  and  Protestant  Missions  in 
China  in  1866 — which  will  prove  most  suggestive  to  the  thoughtful 
mind.  How  is  it  that  286  Roman  Catholic  missionaries,  with  but  few 
exceptions,  not  only  can  live  but  are  actually  residing  in  the  interior, 
are  labouring  in  each  of  the  eighteen  provinces  (and  in  the  outlying 
regions),  and  are  spread  over  the  wrhole  extent  of  these  provinces  ; 
while  the  112  Protestant  missionaries,  with  still  fewer  exceptions, 
are  congregated  together  in  the  few  free  Ports  of  commerce  ?  " 

A  first  edition  of  three  thousand  copies  of  this  burning 
appeal  was  published  in  October,  through  the  generous  help 
of  Mr.  Berger,  and  copies  were  by  permission  freely  dis 
tributed  at  the  Mildmay  Conference,  held  that  year,  which 
at  that  time  was  held  in  the  last  week  of  October.  Another 
edition  was  called  for  in  the  following  year,  and  another  in 
1868,  and  again  another  in  1872,  and  then  for  a  time  the 
book  was  allowed  to  go  out  of  print.  But  between  June 
1884  and  September  of  the  same  year  a  fifth  edition  of  five 
thousand  copies  was  exhausted,  and  a  sixth  and  seventh 
edition  followed  soon  after.  We  have  briefly  related  these 
facts  in  regard  to  the  circulation  of  this  remarkable  book, 
because  its  influence  was  felt  far  and  wide,  and  led  not  a  few 
in  later  years  to  offer  themselves  for  service  in  China. 

We  must  now,  however,  retrace  our  steps  to  the  days 
when  the  book  was  being  completed.  In  addition  to  this 
printed  appeal,  opportunities  were  sought  for  personally 


LAYING  THE  FOUNDATIONS  29 

speaking  to  God's  people.  To  this  end  Mr.  Taylor  attended 
the  Annual  Conference  for  the  Deepening  of  the  Spiritual 
Life  at  Perth  in  1865,  and,  as  we  have  already  mentioned, 
spoke  at  Mildmay,  where  he  circulated  his  book.  In 
February  of  the  following  year  he  visited  Ireland  in  company 
with  Mr.  Grattan  Guinness,  and  held  meetings  at  Dublin, 
Cork,  Limerick,  Belfast,  and  other  places.  It  was  upon 
this  occasion  that  he  met  an  interesting  group  of  men  in 
Mr.  Grattan  Guinness'  theological  class  at  Dublin.  Among 
these  were  John  McCarthy,  Charles  and  Edward  Fishe,  and 
the  subsequently  famous  Thomas  Barnardo.  With  the 
exception  of  Mr.  Barnardo,  all  these  went  forth  to  China, 
and  Barnardo  himself  came  to  London  as  a  candidate  ;  but 
while  engaged  in  his  medical  studies,  at  the  suggestion  of 
Mr.  Taylor,  his  well-known  work  for  the  outcast  children 
of  London  began,  which  proved  to  be  God's  call  to  him  to 
stay  at  home. 

The  interest  at  home  had  begun  to  grow.  On  October  3, 
1865,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  J.  W.  Stevenson  and  Mr.  Stott  had  sailed 
for  China,  to  strengthen  the  hands  of  the  little  group  already 
there,  and  applications  from  more  than  forty  volunteers 
soon  gladdened  Mr.  Taylor's  heart.  From  among  these 
some  fifteen  or  sixteen  of  the  most  suitable  candidates  were 
invited  to  come  and  stay  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  in  East 
London,  that  their  qualifications  for  the  work  might  be 
tested.  The  home  at  Beaumont  Street  had  already  proved 
too  small,  and  a  larger  house  in  Coborn  Road  had  been 
taken,  which,  however,  soon  became  inadequate. 

While  God  was  thus  blessing  and  developing  the  work, 
much  time  was  being  spent  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  and 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Berger,  sometimes  at  the  lovely  home  of  the 
latter  at  East  Grinstead,  in  earnest  prayer  and  conference 
as  to  the  principles  and  practice  which  should  govern  the 
new  organization.  Without  any  attempt  to  lay  down 
detailed  rules,  a  few  broad  principles  began  gradually  to 
manifest  themselves  as  essentials  for  hearty  co-operation. 
With  these  as  a  basis,  the  future  could  safely  be  left  with 
God,  Who,  as  His  people  walked  with  Him,  would  reveal 
His  mind  and  will  as  the  work  developed.  It  was  wise  that 


30  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

it  should  be  so,  for  as  another,  whose  influence  has  been  felt 
throughout  the  world,  has  said,  "  The  small  still  beginning, 
the  simple  hardship,  the  silent  and  gradual  struggle  upwards, 
these  are  the  climate  in  which  an  enterprise  really  thrives 
and  grows.  Time  has  not  altered  our  Saviour's  lesson  on 
that  point,  which  has  been  learnt  successively  by  all  re 
formers  from  their  own  experience."  1 

In  the  first  place,  it  was  decided  to  form  the  Mission  upon 
a  broad  catholic  basis,  the  work  to  be  evangelistic  and 
interdenominational,  the  few  workers  who  had  gone  forth 
before  the  close  of  1865  being  from  most  of  the  leading 
denominations  of  Great  Britain. 

Then  in  regard  to  the  labourers  themselves,  while  it 
was  acknowledged,  and  we  quote  from  the  first  edition  of 
China's  Spiritual  Need  and  Claims,  that 

"  there  is  ample  scope  for  the  highest  talents  that  could  be  laid  upon 
the  altar  of  God ;  there  being  an  urgent  call  for  men  filled  with  love 
to  God,  whose  superior  education  would  enable  them  to  occupy  spheres 
of  usefulness  into  which  others  could  not  enter  "  ;  yet  "  the  proposed 
field  is  so  extensive,  and  the  need  of  labourers  of  every  class  is  so 
great,  that  '  the  eye  cannot  say  to  the  hand,  I  have  no  need  of  thee  '  ; 
nor  yet  again  the  head  to  the  feet, '  I  have  no  need  of  you  '  ;  therefore 
persons  of  moderate  ability  and  limited  attainments  are  not  precluded 
from  engaging  in  the  work.  .  .  .  There  was  need  of  and  work  for  a 
Paul,  an  Apollos,  a  Luke,  as  well  as  those  who  were  manifestly  '  un 
learned  and  ignorant,'  but  of  whom  men  '  took  knowledge  that  they 
had  been  with  Jesus.'  ' 

It  was  intended,  for  the  early  days  at  least,  that  Ningpo 
and  its  neighbourhood  should  be  the  base  for  their  operations, 
and  it  was  therefore  proposed  to  select  one  of  the  towns 
or  cities  easily  approached  from  Ningpo  as  headquarters. 
Events  justified  this  proposal,  for  Hangchow  became  the 
centre  of  affairs  during  the  earlier  years.  There  the  early 
missionaries  were  to  increase  their  acquaintance  with  the 
language,  and  acquire  a  knowledge  of  the  habits  and  customs 
of  the  Chinese,  and  there  they  could  assume  the  dress  of 
the  people  and  begin  to  labour  among  them.  From  that 
centre  they  were  to  go  forth  to  more  distant  provinces, 

1  Florence  Nightingale. 


LAYING  THE  FOUNDATIONS  31 

and  to  that  centre  they  could  return  in  case  of  sickness  or 
persecution. 

In  regard  to  funds,  it  was  estimated  that  on  the  plans 
and  extent  proposed  a  yearly  expenditure  of  about  £5600 
would  be  needed  in  addition  to  the  £2600  required  for 
outfit  and  passage  money.  "  These  are  large  sums/'  wrote 
Mr.  Taylor,  "  but  they  will  not  exhaust  the  resources  of  our 
Father,  who  said,  '  Open  thy  mouth  wide  and  I  will  fill  it.'  ' 
A  sum  of  £2000,  or  a  proportionate  part  of  the  expenses  of 
each  of  the  labourers  had  been  promised.  One  worker  was 
already  supported  by  a  Church  at  home,  and  it  was  believed 
and  hoped  that  other  Churches  or  private  individuals  would 
be  led  to  take  a  similar  course.  An  account  was  opened 
in  the  London  and  County  Bank,  and  it  being  necessary 
for  this  purpose  to  adopt  a  definite  name,  that  of  the  CHINA 
INLAND  MISSION  was  finally  decided  upon,  as  being  on  the 
whole  most  suitable,  though  it  was  added,  "  We  do  not,  in 
adopting  the  title  China  Inland  Mission,  propose  to  abandon 
the  work  at  the  base  line  of  Ningpo."  This  principle,  it 
may  be  said,  has  governed  the  Mission  in  all  its  developments 
inland  ever  since. 

Mr.  W.  T.  Berger  had  already  consented  to  carry  on  the 
work  of  the  Home  Department  when  Mr.  Taylor  should 
return  to  the  Field,  so  friends  were  notified  that  contributions 
could  be  sent  direct  to  the  Bank,  or  to  W.  T.  Berger,  Esq., 
Saint  Hill,  East  Grinstead,  or  to  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor  at 
30  Coborn  Road,  Bow,  until  his  departure. 

It  was  decided  that  there  should  be  no  collections  or 
authorized  appeals  for  support,  in  order  that  funds  might 
not  be  deflected  from  other  channels.  Thus,  although  Mr. 
Taylor  did  not  hesitate,  when  he  thought  it  desirable,  as 
the  early  records  of  the  Mission  will  show,  to  publicly  state 
what  financial  outlay  certain  developments  involved,  there 
was  to  be  no  solicitation  of  money,  but  a  simple  dependence 
upon  God  to  move  the  hearts  of  His  stewards,  as  His  servants 
obeyed  His  bidding. 

It  was  also  thought  desirable  that  the  workers  should 
adopt  Chinese  dress.  The  advantages  of  this  Mr.  Taylor 
had  himself  proved,  and  in  the  third  edition  of  China  s 


32  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

Spiritual  Need  and  Claims,  published  in  1868,  was  printed 
an  Appendix  of  ten  pages,  mainly  taken  from  a  paper 
prepared  for  candidates,  setting  forth  in  forcible  argument 
the  reasons  for  this  practice.  A  few  extracts  from  that 
paper  may  well  be  quoted  here,  rather  to  indicate  the  spirit 
which  was  to  animate  and  govern  the  whole  Mission  than 
to  prove  the  advisability  of  the  adoption  of  the  Chinese 
dress,  which  was  in  reality  only  one  incident  in  the  mis 
sionary's  attitude  towards  the  people  he  sought  to  win. 

"  Had  our  Lord  appeared  on  earth  as  an  angel  of  light/'  Mr.  Taylor 
wrote,  "  He  would  doubtless  have  inspired  far  more  awe  and  reverence, 
and  would  have  collected  together  even  larger  multitudes  to  attend 
His  ministry.  But  to  save  man  He  became  man,  not  merely  like  man, 
but  very  man.  And  furthermore,  He  was  specially  sent  to  the  lost 
sheep  of  the  house  of  Israel.  The  immediate  objects  of  His  personal 
ministry  being  those  under  the  law,  He  likewise  was  made,  born,  under 
the  law ;  and  became,  not  a  mere  proselyte,  but  a  real  Jew,  for  it 
became  Him  in  all  things  to  be  made  like  unto  His  brethren.  In 
language,  in  costume,  in  everything  unsinful,  He  made  Himself  one 
with  those  He  sought  to  benefit.  Had  He  been  born  a  noble  Roman, 
rather  than  a  Jew,  He  would,  perhaps,  if  less  loved,  have  commanded 
more  of  a  certain  respect ;  and  He  would  assuredly  have  been  spared 
much  indignity  to  which  He  was  subjected.  This,  however,  was  not 
His  aim  :  He  emptied  Himself.  Surely  no  follower  of  the  meek  and 
lowly  Jesus  will  be  likely  to  conclude  that  it  is  '  beneath  the  dignity 
of  a  Christian  missionary  '  to  seek  identification  with  this  poor  people, 
in  the  hope  that  he  may  see  them  washed,  sanctified,  and  justified  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  by  the  Spirit  of  our  God  !  " 

"  There  is,  perhaps,  no  country  in  the  world  in  which  religious 
toleration  is  carried  to  so  great  an  extent  as  in  China.  The  chief 
objection  that  prince  and  people  have  to  Christianity  is,  that  it  is  a 
foreign  religion,  and  that  its  tendencies  are  to  approximate  believers 
to  foreign  nations.  I  am  not  peculiar  in  holding  the  opinion  that  the 
foreign  dress  and  carriage  of  missionaries — to  a  certain  extent  affected 
by  some  of  their  converts  and  pupils, — the  foreign  appearance  of  the 
chapels,  and  indeed,  the  foreign  air  given  to  everything  connected  with 
religion,  have  very  largely  hindered  the  rapid  dissemination  of  the 
truth  among  the  Chinese."  .  .  . 

"  Let  us  live  in  their  houses,  making  no  unnecessary  alterations  in 
external  form,  and  only  so  far  modifying  their  internal  arrangements 
as  attention  to  health  and  efficiency  for  work  absolutely  require.  Our 
present  experience  is  proving  the  advantage  of  this  course.  .  .  . 

"  Having  now  given  in  detail  my  reasons  for  maintaining  the 


LAYING  THE  FOUNDATIONS  33 

general  principle  of  conforming  oneself  as  far  as  possible  to  the  social 
condition  of  the  people  for  whose  welfare  we  labour,  and  having 
pointed  out  the  applicability  of  this  principle  to  the  case  of  the  Chinese 
in  particular,  together  with  some  of  the  collateral  advantages  resulting 
therefrom,  it  will  be  seen  that  it  is  not  without  reason  that  I  desire  to 
see  this  principle  thoroughly  carried  into  effect.  Should  any  of  you 
conclude  to  join  our  work,  I  trust  you  will  do  so  with  a  full  under 
standing  of  its  nature,  and  the  determination,  by  God's  help,  to  act  in 
consistency  with  it.  Let  there  be  no  reservation  :  give  yourself  up 
wholly  and  fully  to  Him  whose  you  are,  and  whom  you  wish  to  serve 
in  this  work,  and  then  there  can  be  no  disappointment." 


VI 

THE   "  LAMMERMUIR"   PARTY 

WITH  the  closing  of  the  year  1865,  the  year  which  had 
seen  the  foundations  of  the  Mission  laid,  all  the  friends  and 
students  at  Coborn  Road  gathered  together  for  a  special 
day  of  prayer  and  fasting.1  There  were  many  things  in  the 
retrospect,  even  at  that  early  date,  for  which  to  thank  God, 
while  the  problems  of  the  new  year,  upon  the  threshold  of 
which  they  then  stood,  were  such  as  to  call  for  earnest 
prayer  and  supplication. 

Nine  workers  had  already  gone  forth  to  China,  of  whom 
three  were  still  upon  the  sea.  In  and  around  Ningpo 
upwards  of  one  hundred  converts  had  been  baptized  since 
the  autumn  of  1857,  and  several  members  of  that  Church 
were  showing  real  zeal  by  spending  all  their  spare  time  in 
evangelistic  work.  At  home,  also,  there  were  encouraging 
signs  of  God's  presence.  The  house  at  30  Coborn  Road  had 
proved  too  small  for  the  growing  work,  so  that  No.  34  and 
half  of  No.  33  had  been  taken,  and  so  far  all  the  expenses 
of  rent,  taxes,  board,  firing,  and  salaries  had  been  met  by 
special  donations  given  for  that  purpose.  A  valuable 
printing  press,  with  two  fonts  of  type,  a  lithographic  press, 
and  a  large  electro-magnetic  machine  had  been  presented 
to  the  Mission  for  the  work  in  China.  During  the  year 
£1130 :  9 :  2  had  been  received  towards  the  Mission's 
expenses,  of  which  sum  over  £900  had  been  given  since 
that  memorable  day  in  June  at  Brighton.  All  these  things, 

1  From  that  time  onward,  December  31  and  May  26,  the  anniversary 
of  the  sailing  of  the  Lammermuir,  have  been  observed  as  days  of  prayer 
and  fasting  throughout  the  Mission. 

34 


THE  "LAMMERMUIR"  PARTY  35 

together  with  an  enlarging  circle  of  sympathizing  friends 
and  an  encouraging  number  of  candidates,  were  causes  for 
thanksgiving. 

But  there  were  also  many  subjects  for  prayer.  The 
tidings  from  China  had  been  somewhat  chequered.  Some 
of  the  workers  had  been  sick  ;  one,  Mrs.  Meadows,  had  died, 
and  another  had  married  outside  the  Mission.  Some  of  the 
converts,  too,  were  causing  sorrow  rather  than  joy.  Then 
there  was  the  unknown  future,  with  all  its  possibilities  and 
responsibilities.  Since  June  regular  prayer  had  been  made 
for  24  European  evangelists,  and  an  equal  number  of 
Chinese  helpers,  for  the  eleven  unevangelized  provinces 
and  Mongolia.  Some  of  these  workers  had  already 
volunteered,  and  the  way  seemed  opening  up  for  Mr.  Taylor 
to  return  with  the  first  large  band. 

Feeling  that  such  a  step  was  no  light  matter,  and  that 
a  false  move  now  might  bring  disgrace  and  contempt,  not 
only  upon  God's  people,  but  also  upon  God's  cause,  Mr. 
Taylor  had  decided  to  set  apart  the  last  week-day  of  the  year 
for  waiting  upon  God.  As  ever  since  that  day,  December  31 
has  been  kept  in  the  Mission  as  a  day  for  prayer  and  fasting, 
the  following  extract  from  Mr.  Taylor's  letter,  in  which  he 
inaugurated  this  custom,  will  be  read  with  special  interest 
by  many.  Writing  from  30  Coborn  Street  on  December  26, 
1865,  he  said  : 

We  have  concluded  to  set  apart  Saturday  next  (the  3oth)  for 
devotional  exercises.  We  have  now  arrived  at  a  very  momentous 
stage  of  our  work.  Besides  the  eight  of  our  brethren  and  sisters  who 
are  now  in  China,  or  on  their  way  there,  between  twenty  and  thirty 
others  are  desiring  to  serve  the  Lord  there  in  connection  with  us. 
How  much  we  need  the  Lord's  guidance  both  for  them  and  for  our 
selves  !  We  have  undertaken  to  work  in  the  interior  of  China,  looking 
to  the  Lord  for  help  of  all  kinds.  This  we  can  only  do  in  His  strength, 
and  if  we  are  to  be  much  used  by  Him,  we  must  live  very  near  Him. 
We  propose,  therefore,  to  seek  the  Lord,  both  in  private  and  unitedly, 
by  prayer  and  fasting  (see  Acts  xiii.  2)  during  the  earlier  part  of  the 
day.  We  shall  meet  unitedly  from  10.30  A.M.  to  1.30  P.M.,  and  from 
4  P.M.  to  5.30  P.M. 

And  so  the  year  closed  with  earnest  pleadings  with  God 
that  He  would  glorify  His  Name,  and  the  New  Year  was 


36  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

entered  upon  with  a  fresh  assurance  that  He  would  certainly 
do  so. 

Early  in  the  year  1866,  the  first  official  organ  of  the 
Mission  was  issued  under  the  title  of  China  Inland  Mission 
Occasional  Paper,  and  on  February  6,  Mr.  Taylor  sent  the 
MS.  of  the  first  number  to  the  printer.  In  this  issue  he 
stated  that  he  hoped  to  leave  England  for  China  about  the 
middle  of  May,  in  company  with  his  wife  and  four  children, 
and  a  party  of  some  ten  workers.  To  meet  the  expenses 
of  so  large  a  party,  funds,  he  said,  "  to  the  amount  of  £1500 
to  £2000,  according  to  the  number  going,  would  be  required." 

And  now  occurred  a  significant  and  encouraging  illustra 
tion  of  the  power  of  prayer  which  was  to  set  God's  seal  upon 
the  contemplated  venture  of  faith.  Just  one  month  and 
six  days  had  elapsed  since  the  commencement  of  the  year, 
during  which  period  £170  had  been  received.  It  was  mani 
fest  that  if  so  large  a  party  as  was  anticipated  was  to  sail  in 
May,  funds  for  that  purpose  must  come  in  much  more 
freely.  The  fact  that  from  £1500  to  £2000  would  be  needed 
had  been  mentioned  in  the  MS.  sent  to  the  press,  but  as 
there  was  no  reason  for  delay  in  taking  this  need  to  God,  a 
daily  prayer  meeting  was  immediately  arranged.  Owing 
to  unexpected  delays  in  the  engraving  of  the  cover,  etc., 
this  first  issue  of  the  Occasional  Paper  was  not  ready  for  the 
publisher  until  March  12,  which  happened  to  be  another 
period  of  one  month  and  six  days.  By  this  time  £1274 
had  been  received  in  answer  to  prayer,  and  it  therefore 
became  necessary  to  insert  a  coloured  slip  in  the  forthgoing 
magazine  to  let  friends  know  that  the  sum  mentioned  as 
needed  had  been  already  supplied. 

It  is  instructive  to  compare  the  moneys  received  during 
these  two  equal  periods,  and  also  the  funds  received  during 
a  similar  period  after  the  need  had  been  met : 

December  30  to  February  6  .  .  .  £170  8  3 
February  6  to  March  12  .  .  .  .  1974  511 
March  12  to  April  18 529  o  o 

It  will  be  seen  from  these  figures  that  previous  to  the 
publication  of  the  paper,  and  not  as  a  result  of  it,  God  had 


THE  "  LAMMERMUIR  "  PARTY  37 

supplied  the  need,  and  that  when  the  special  need  had  been 
met  the  special  provision  ceased.  "  Truly,"  wrote  Mr. 
Hudson  Taylor  upon  this  occasion,  "  there  is  a  LIVING  GOD, 
and  He  is  the  Hearer  and  Answerer  of  prayer." 

But  this  was  not  all.  There  was  to  be  what  Mr.  Taylor 
delighted  to  call  God's  "  exceeding  abundantly."  In 
April  he  had  been  asked  to  give  a  lecture  on  China  at 
Totteridge,  a  village  not  far  from  London,  and  he  had 
consented  on  condition  that  it  should  be  announced  upon 
the  bills  that  there  was  to  be  No  Collection.  Mr.  Taylor's 
reason  for  this  was  that  he  would  not  have  the  people  who 
were  present  free  themselves  from  a  sense  of  responsibility 
by  a  gift  under  the  impulse  of  the  moment. 

The  lecture  was  delivered  on  May  2,  with  Mr.  Taylor's 
host  as  Chairman.  At  the  close  of  the  meeting  the  Chairman 
urged  Mr.  Taylor  to  withdraw  his  prohibition  to  a  collection, 
but  without  success.  Early  next  morning  Mr.  Taylor  received 
at  the  breakfast  table  a  letter  from  Messrs.  Killick  Martin 
&  Co.,  shipping  agents,  offering  the  whole  of  the  passenger 
accommodation  of  the  Lammermuir,  and  at  the  close  of  the 
meal  he  was  called  by  his  host  into  his  study.  Here  his 
kind  friend,  and  Chairman  of  the  night  before,  handed  him 
a  cheque  for  £500,  saying  that  he  had  intended  giving  £5 
to  the  collection,  but  had  been  so  burdened  during  the  night 
that  he  now  felt  he  could  not  give  less  than  this  larger  sum. 
The  simultaneous  offer  of  the  ship's  accommodation  and 
this  munificent  gift  greatly  encouraged  Mr.  Taylor.  He 
went  direct  to  the  ship,  found  it  in  every  way  suitable,  and 
paid  in  the  cheque  on  account.  Thus  was  the  decision  made 
and  doubly  ratified  by  God. 

Those  were  busy  days  at  Coborn  Road.  For  long  there 
had  been  an  extensive  correspondence  with  the  friends  of 
the  Mission  and  with  many  candidates  who  were  offering, 
while  the  testing  and  supervising  of  the  studies  of  those  who 
had  come  to  London  taxed  the  strength  of  the  limited  staff. 
There  had  been  meetings  far  and  near,  preparation  of  MS. 
for  the  printer,  in  addition  to  many  hours  regularly  devoted 
to  prayer  and  thought.  And  now  there  was  all  the  prepara 
tion  of  outfits  to  be  hastened  on,  and  all  the  necessary 


38  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

arrangements  inseparable  from  the  handing  over  of  the 
Home  Department  to  Mr.  W.  T.  Berger. 

It  was  small  wonder  that  Mr.  Taylor  wrote,  five  days 
before  he  sailed,  in  a  farewell  letter  printed  in  the  Occasional 
Paper : 

The  rapid  growth  of  the  work  has  involved  a  correspondence  of  such 
magnitude,  that  I  have  been  absolutely  unable  to  keep  pace  with  it. 
I  cannot  but  fear  that  some  kind  friends  may  have  been  pained  by  the 
answers  to  their  letters  being  delayed,  or  by  my  deputing  others  to 
write  to  them  for  me.  This  has  been  a  dernier  ressort.  Often  I  have 
tried  by  sitting  up  till  one,  two,  three,  four  o'clock,  and  occasionally  by 
giving  up  the  whole  night  to  correspondence,  to  avoid  this  alternative. 

Saturday,  May  26,  dawned  at  last,  a  day  which  had  been 
prevented  by  many  prayers,  and  one  which  has  since  been 
followed  by  much  thanksgiving.  It  was  a  memorable 
occasion,  for  then,  unknown  to  all  but  a  small  circle  of 
friends,  and  •  unsupported  by  any  wealthy  constituency  at 
home,  what  was  probably  the  largest  missionary  party  up 
to  that  date  set  sail  for  the  practically  unopened  land  of 
China.  Under  the  command  of  Captain  Bell,  with  a  crew 
of  34  hands,  the  Lammermuir  set  out  from  the  East 
India  Docks  upon  her  long  voyage  with  her  missionary 
party  numbering  22  in  all.  The  names  of  those  who 
sailed  are  as  follows  :  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hudson  Taylor  and 
their  four  children,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Nicol,  Messrs.  Duncan, 
Jackson,  Rudland,  Sell,  and  Williamson,  Misses  Barnes, 
Bausum,  Blatchley,  Bell,  Bowyer,  Desgraz,  Faulding, 
J.  M'Lean,  and  Rose.  Miss  Bell  was  acting  as  nurse  to  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Taylor's  children,  and  Miss  Bausum  was  going  out 
to  join  her  mother,  Mrs.  Lord,  at  Ningpo. 

It  is  easy  now,  in  the  light  of  subsequent  history,  to 
under-estimate  what  such  a  launching  forth  must  have 
meant,  but  to  those  who  sailed  it  was  indeed  the  following 
of  Abraham's  example,  who  went  out  "  not  knowing  whither 
he  went."  To  the  majority  China  was  altogether  an  untried 
field,  and  the  life  of  faith  one  of  but  recent  experience  ; 
while  to  the  leader  the  responsibility  of  leadership  on  such 
a  scale  was  also  an  untried  path. 

The  bond  which  then  bound  the  party  together  was  one 


THE  ';'  LAMMERMUIR  "  PARTY  39 

of  love  and  of  common  trust  in  God.  There  were  no  written 
agreements  required  from  the  workers  going  forth,  only  a 
verbal  understanding  that  they  would  act  under  Mr.  Taylor's 
direction  ;  and  between  Mr.  Taylor  and  Mr.  Berger,  who 
had  been  increasingly  drawn  together,  there  was  a  mutual 
understanding  that  Mr.  Taylor  was  responsible  as  the 
Director  for  all  the  operations  in  China,  and  that  Mr.  Berger 
would  assume  the  position  of  Director  at  home.  Yet  from 
the  first  all  things  were  ordered  so  as  to  be  above  criticism. 
The  carefully-audited  accounts  right  back  to  1864  can  still 
be  seen  in  the  Occasional  Papers,  and  Mr.  Taylor  himself 
as  the  founder  of  the  work  "  studiously  refrained,"  to  quote 
from  Mr.  Berger's  first  official  letter  as  Home  Director, 
"  from  appropriating  any  of  the  funds  sent  for  the  Mission 
to  his  own  use,  or  that  of  his  family,  or  for  his  own  house 
keeping,"  that  he  might  "  cut  off  occasion  from  them  which 
desire  an  occasion  "  for  criticism. 

With  the  sailing  of  the  Lammermiiir  party  the  houses  in 
Coborn  Road  had  been  given  up,  and  Mr.  Berger's  beautiful 
home  at  East  Grinstead  became  the  headquarters  for  the 
time  being  in  England.  None  the  less,  however,  the  regular 
Saturday  prayer  meeting  at  4  P.M.  was  continued  in  East 
London  in  the  home  of  Mrs.  Jones,  4  Montague  Terrace, 
Bow  Road. 

The  greater  part  of  the  voyage  was  peaceful,  while  blessing 
reigned  throughout.  Of  the  crew,  three  of  whom  were 
Christians  when  they  started,  more  than  twenty  professed 
conversion  during  the  voyage.  The  weather  was  propitious 
until  they  entered  the  China  Sea,  but  there  they  encountered 
two  terrible  typhoons  which  threatened  the  total  destruction 
of  the  vessel.  All  hands,  ladies  included,  had  to  assist  at 
the  pumps,  and  it  was  only  a  much  battered  and  dismantled 
vessel  that  was  at  last  towed  up  the  river  into  Shanghai  on 
Sunday  morning,  September  30.  The  weary  travellers 
fully  recognized  how  much  there  was  for  which  to  be  thankful. 
The  lives  of  all  had  been  spared  and  they  had  been  brought 
safely  through  ;  whereas  another  vessel,  which  reached 
Shanghai  soon  after  they  did,  had  lost  sixteen  souls  out  of  a 
company  of  twenty-two. 


40  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

And  yet  there  was  much  to  try  them,  for  the  arrival  of 
such  a  party,  with  the  intention  of  venturing  inland,  was 
in  the  eyes  of  many  to  violate  all  precedent  and  propriety. 
The  censure  and  the  criticism  of  an  unsympathetic  foreign 
community  had  to  be  faced,  and  some  of  the  comments  in 
the  Shanghai  press  even  questioned  the  sanity  of  such 
pioneers.  But  they  were  not  the  first  to  be  willing  to  be 
fools  for  Christ's  sake.  What  exercised  their  minds  more 
than  the  criticism  of  men  was  the  practical  question  of 
housing  so  large  a  party  while  preparations  were  made  for 
the  journey  inland,  but  "  when/'  wrote  Mr.  Taylor,  "  were 
those  who  trusted  in  the  Lord  ever  put  to  shame  ?  " 
Certainly  it  was  not  then,  for  on  the  evening  of  their  arrival 
they  received  a  kind  invitation  from  Mr.  W.  Gamble, 
missionary-in-charge  of  the  American  Presbyterian  Mission 
Press,  who  kindly  stored  their  luggage  and  entertained  the 
whole  party  during  their  stay  at  Shanghai. 


VII 
SETTLING  INLAND 

ALTHOUGH  it  was  on  Sunday,  September  30,  when  the 
Lammermuir  reached  Shanghai,  it  was  not  until  the  following 
morning  that  the  party  landed.  Mr.  Taylor  lost  no  time 
in  preparing  for  the  journey  inland,  for  the  same  evening 
he  left  for  Ningpo  by  a  local  steamer,  taking  with  him  Miss 
Bausum,  who  was  going  to  her  mother  Mrs.  Lord,  and  Miss 
Rose,  who  was  to  be  married  to  Mr.  Meadows.  His  visit  was 
a  brief  one,  for  by  the  following  Wednesday  he  was  back 
again  in  Shanghai,  where  many  preparations  had  to  be  made 
for  the  escort  of  so  large  a  party  to  the  city  of  Hangchow, 
which  was  to  be  their  first  headquarters. 

He  had  found  the  few  workers  who  were  already  in  the 
field  successfully  settled  in  two  or  three  new  stations,  and 
he  now  purposed  to  seek  a  new  settlement  at  Hangchow, 
the  capital ;  and  at  other  cities,  if  prospered  by  God.  The 
operations  of  the  Mission  were  from  the  first  both  systematic 
and  methodical.  There  was  no  aimless  wandering,  as  has 
sometimes  been  suggested,  but  a  definite  plan  was  adopted 
which  sought,  not  the  securing  in  the  shortest  of  time  of 
the  largest  possible  number  of  converts  for  the  Mission,  but 
rather  the  evangelization  of  the  whole  Empire  as  speedily 
as  possible  ;  it  being  of  secondary  importance  by  whom  the 
converts  should  be  gathered  in.  As  the  Apostle  Paul  sought 
to  establish  churches  in  the  great  strategical  centres  of  the 
Roman  Empire,  so  Mr.  Taylor  recognized  the  importance  of 
gaining  a  footing,  if  practicable,  in  the  provincial  capitals, 
though  these  were  the  most  difficult  places  in  which  to  found 

41 


42  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

churches.  With  the  provincial  capitals  opened,  the  next 
step  was  to  open  stations  in  the  chief  prefectures,  and  thus 
downwards  to  the  smaller  towns  and  villages.  The  capitals, 
it  was  recognized,  were  the  key  to  the  smaller  cities,  since 
the  subordinate  officials  were  generally  guided  by  their 
superiors,  and  so,  though  a  larger  number  of  converts  might 
have  been  gained  through  work  in  some  country  centres, 
the  slower  but  more  far-sighted  policy  was  adopted  in 
preference  to  that  which  would  have  brought  quick  returns. 
Without  a  recognition  of  this  plan  of  action  no  just  estimate 
of  the  Mission's  work  can  be  obtained. 

Hangchow,  the  capital  of  Chekiang,  was,  in  accordance 
with  the  policy  outlined  above,  selected  as  the  first  great 
centre  to  be  desired.  Three  pioneer  missionaries  had  already 
opened  work  within  the  city,  these  being  the  Rev.  G.  E. 
Moule  (subsequently  Bishop  in  Mid -China),  who  settled 
there  with  his  family  in  the  autumn  of  1865  ;  Mr.  Green  of 
the  American  Presbyterian  Mission,  who  followed  shortly 
after  ;  and  Mr.  Kreyer  of  the  American  Baptist  Missionary 
Union,  who  arrived  shortly  before  the  Lammermuw  party. 

On  October  20,  nearly  three  weeks  after  reaching  Shanghai, 
the  Lammennuir  party  started  off  in  houseboats  for  the  city 
of  Hangchow,  their  departure  being  cheered  by  a  hearty 
send-off  by  the  Lammermuir  crew,  who  had  subscribed  a 
sum  equal  to  about  £30  as  a  token  of  their  goodwill.  The 
journey  from  Shanghai  to  Hangchow,  a  distance  of  nearly 
200  miles,  can  now  be  accomplished  by  rail  in  a  few  hours, 
but  in  those  days  the  journey  by  water  was  necessarily  slow 
and  tedious.  Upon  this  occasion  the  party  were  nearly  five 
weeks  upon  the  way  through  delays  occasioned  by  efforts 
made,  though  without  success,  to  locate  some  of  the  single 
brethren  at  some  of  the  cities  passed  en  route. 

"  I  cannot  tell  you/'  wrote  Mr.  Taylor,  "  how  it  grieves  me  to  leave 
these  cities  without  any  witness  for  Christ.  Oh  !  dear  Mr.  Berger 
it  makes  one's  heart  bleed  to  think  of  the  spiritual  needs  of  this  people." 

And  the  physical  aspect  of  the  country  too  was  painful 
to  behold.  As  a  consequence  of  the  rebellion,  cities  which 
had  been  cities  of  palaces  when  Mr.  Taylor  had  left  China 


SETTLING  INLAND  43 

in  1860,  were  for  the  greater  part  in  ruins.  Of  Kashing 
they  wrote  :  "  Of  all  its  former  glory  we  could  see  only  the 
debris  of  lordly  mansions,  once  the  abode  of  wealth  and 
pleasure,  now  the  habitations  of  desolation  and  silence." 

Hangchow  was  reached  on  Friday,  November  27,  and 
the  large  party  were  fortunate  to  enter  the  city  unobserved 
in  the  dusk  of  the  evening.  Unexpectedly  and  providen 
tially  they  found  that  Mr.  Kreyer,  who  had  gone  to  Ningpo 
to  bring  his  wife  back,  had  left  word  that  his  home  was  at 
Mr.  Taylor's  disposal  until  his  return.  This  kind  offer  was 
God's  solution  of  no  small  difficulty,  for  their  large  house 
boats  had  been  unable  to  reach  the  city,  and  they  had  been 
obliged  to  tranship  into  smaller  vessels,  in  which  residence 
would  have  been  impossible.  The  friends,  as  mentioned 
above,  moved  in  at  dusk,  and,  in  answer  to  much  earnest 
prayer,  Mr.  Taylor  was  successful,  by  the  following  Tuesday, 
in  renting  some  large,  though  dilapidated,  premises  con 
taining  some  thirty  rooms.  Those  who  know  the  leisurely 
way  in  which  business  is  conducted  in  China,  and  the 
difficulty  of  those  early  days,  will  readily  appreciate  how 
truly  God  had  undertaken  on  behalf  of  His  servants. 

Early  on  Wednesday  morning,  before  the  city  was  astir, 
the  party  moved  into  the  new  home,  untidy  and  unprepared 
as  it  was,  praising  God  for  having  thus  provided  for  their 
need  before  Mr.  Kreyer  returned  the  next  day. 

During  the  brief  stay  of  the  Lammermuir  party  in 
Shanghai,  another  small  band  of  workers  had  set  sail  from 
England.  These  were  Mr.  and  Mrs.  J.  McCarthy  with 
three  children,  and  Miss  M'Lean.  Including  these  friends, 
there  were  now  28  workers  in  all  connected  with  the 
Mission. 

When  the  year  1866  closed,  these  workers,  with  the 
exception  of  the  party  still  upon  the  sea,  were  already 
settled  in  four  central  stations,  with  one  or  two  promising 
out-stations.  At  Ningpo  the  work  was  under  the  care  of 
Mr.  Meadows.  On  the  incomplete  Church  Roll x  there 
were  64  members,  4  of  whom  had  been  set  apart  by 
the  Church  for  evangelistic  work.  At  Kongpu,  a  village 

1  The  records  were  lost  when  Mr.  Jones  removed. 


44  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

only  four  miles  away,  there  was  an  encouraging  out-station 
with  14  members,  and  Mr.  Stott  settled  here  for  a  short 
period. 

At  Fenghwa,  a  hsien  city  some  thirty  miles  from  Ningpo, 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Crombie  with  a  Chinese  evangelist  had,  with 
the  help  of  Mr.  Meadows,  obtained  a  settlement.  The  work 
here  had  been  carried  on  for  the  greater  part  of  the  year, 
though  the  lack  of  suitable  premises  hindered  progress. 

The  important  prefectural  city  of  Shaohingfu  had  been 
visited  in  May  by  Mr.  Meadows,  who  had  been  successful  in 
renting  a  baker's  shop,  supposed  to  be  haunted.  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  J.  W.  Stevenson  removed  here  in  September,  where  they 
were  subsequently  joined  by  Messrs.  Rudland  and  Jackson, 
who  were  busily  engaged  in  the  study  of  the  language. 
Before  the  close  of  the  year  a  good  many  people  had  begun 
to  evince  an  interest  in  the  Gospel,  with  a  willingness  to 
purchase  copies  of  the  Scriptures. 

At  Hangchow  a  good  beginning  had  also  been  made. 
Mr.  Taylor  reported  that  they  had  been  able  to  arrange  for 
a  good  chapel  and  a  small  dispensary  out  of  the  premises 
obtained.  There  was  also  room  for  a  school,  and  for  the 
printing  presses — for  the  working  of  which  they  had  been 
successful  in  engaging  the  services  of  a  Chinese  who  had 
learnt  printing  at  the  Mission  Press  in  Shanghai.  On 
Sundays  the  workers  were  encouraged  by  an  apparently 
interested  audience  of  from  fifty  to  seventy  persons. 

It  will  thus  be  seen  that  when  the  year  1866  closed  the 
Mission  had  four  central  stations  in  Chekiang.  Of  these 
four  stations,  three  were  inland  ;  the  two  most  remote  being 
four  days'  journey  apart.  Thus,  in  spite  of  many  difficulties, 
the  name  China  Inland  Mission  was  being  early  justified. 


VIII 
AN  ENLARGED  COAST 

THE  last  day  of  1866  was  devoted  to  waiting  upon  God, 
even  until  the  early  hours  of  the  morning,  when  the  New 
Year  was  commenced  with  the  prayer  of  Jabez  : 

Oh  that  Thou  wouldst  bless  me  indeed  and  enlarge  my  coast,  and 
that  Thine  hand  might  be  with  me  and  that  Thou  wouldst  keep  me 
from  evil,  that  it  may  not  grieve  me  ! 

And  God  granted  them  that  which  they  requested,  for 
ere  the  year  closed  more  than  half  the  prefectural  cities  of 
Chekiang  were  to  be  occupied,  one  of  these  being  the  most 
southerly  in  the  province,  and  an  entry  was  also  to  be  gained 
into  Nanking,  the  capital  of  the  neighbouring  province  of 
Kiangsu.  But  this  extension  was  not  to  be  attained  without 
riots  and  suffering,  sickness  and  death.  There  had,  however, 
been  no  reserve  in  the  prayer  and  there  was  no  shrinking 
from  trial  in  the  service,  and  such  prayer  and  unflinching 
toil  God  owned  and  blessed. 

It  is  well,  as  we  look  back  upon  the  remarkable  success 
which  accompanied  the  labours  of  a  band  of  workers  who 
had  but  recently  arrived  in  the  field,  to  note  not  only  the 
progress  made,  but  the  spirit  in  which  that  progress  was 
accomplished.  Of  the  physical  hardships  the  workers 
thought  little,  and  these  were  by  no  means  imaginary  in 
those  days : 

"  There  is  a  deficiency  in  the  wall  of  my  own  bedroom  six  feet  by 
nine,  closed  with  a  sheet,  so  that  the  ventilation  is  decidedly  free," 
wrote  Mr.  Taylor  soon  after  reaching  Hangchow.  "  But  we  heed  these 
things  very  little,  and  around  us  are  poor  dark  heathen.  Large  cities 

45 


46  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

without  any  missionary ;  populous  towns  without  any  missionary ; 
villages  without  number,  all  destitute  of  the  means  of  grace  that 
surround  us  ;  and  I  do  not  envy  the  feelings  of  those  who  would  forget 
these  or  leave  them  for  fear  of  a  little  external  discomfort." 

Of  course  no  means  were  neglected  to  repair  such  dilapida 
tions  when  possible,  but  in  travelling  and  in  gladly  accepting 
any  foothold  in  new  and  anti-foreign  cities,  the  workers 
looked  upon  such  trials  as  of  small  concern.  There  were 
heavier  trials  than  these.  Writing  to  Mr.  Berger,  just  a 
year  after  the  sailing  of  the  Lammermuir,  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  : 

Burdens  such  as  I  have  never  before  sustained,  responsibilities  such 
as  I  had  not  hitherto  incurred,  and  sorrows  compared  with  which  all 
my  past  ones  were  light,  have  been  part  of  my  experience.  ...  I  have 
long  felt  that  our  Mission  has  a  baptism  to  be  baptized  with.  It  may 
be  heavier  than  we  can  foresee,  but  if  by  grace  we  are  kept  faithful,  in 
the  end  all  will  be  well. 

These  words  were  written  shortly  after  Mr.  Sell,  one  of 
the  Lammermuir  party,  had  died  at  Ningpo  in  consequence 
of  an  attack  of  small-pox.  But  ere  three  months  had  passed 
a  sharper  sword  was  to  pierce  through  Mr.  Taylor's  side,  for 
in  August  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor's  fondly-beloved  child  Gracie 
was  to  be  taken  from  them.  In  the  midst  of  this  great 
sorrow  he  wrote  : 

I  know  not  how  to  write  to  you,  nor  how  to  refrain.  I  seem  to  be 
writing  almost  from  the  inner  chamber  of  the  King  of  Kings — surely 
this  is  holy  ground.  I  am  striving  to  write  a  few  lines  from  the  side 
of  a  couch  on  which  my  darling  little  Gracie  lies  dying.  .  .  .  Dear 
Brother,  our  flesh  and  heart  fail,  but  God  is  the  strength  of  our  heart 
and  our  portion  for  ever.  It  was  no  vain  nor  unintelligent  act,  when 
knowing  the  land,  its  people,  and  climate,  I  laid  my  dear  wife  and  the 
darling  children  with  myself  on  the  altar  for  this  service.  And  He 
whom  so  unworthily,  and  with  much  weakness  and  failure,  we  are  and 
have  been  endeavouring  to  serve  in  simplicity  and  godly  sincerity — 
and  not  without  some  measure  of  success — has  not  left  us  now. 
Ebenezer  and  Jehovah-JireJi  are  still  dear  words  to  us. 

And  in  quoting  the  words  of  Mr.  Taylor  we  are  voicing 
the  heart's  deepest  feelings  of  many  others,  for  countless 
graves  scattered  throughout  China  to-day — graves  of  those 
who  have  fallen  in  the  fight,  and  graves  of  beloved  children 


AN  ENLARGED  COAST  47 

who  have  been  laid  upon  the  self-same  altar  as  the  parents 
—proclaim  the  fact  that  the  evangelization  of  China  has 
called  many  into  the  fellowship  of  suffering  with  Him  who 
was  the  "  Man  of  Sorrows  "  on  our  behalf.  It  was  in  this 
spirit  that  the  task  was  faced,  and  those  who  sowed  in  tears 
were  privileged  to  reap  in  joy.  Let  us  now  briefly  relate 
some  of  the  labours  of  the  year. 

About  ten  miles  distant  from  Hangchow  was  situated 
the  hsien  city  of  Siaoshan.  Toward  the  close  of  1866 
temporary  premises  had  been  rented  here  and  occupied 
for  three  weeks.  These  had  to  be  relinquished,  and  another 
suitable  house  was  found,  for  the  possession  of  which,  how 
ever,  a  deposit  of  sixty  dollars  was  required.  The  rent 
demanded  was  not  unreasonable,  and  the  city  was  one  of 
importance,  but  the  state  of  the  funds  at  that  time  was  such 
that  the  wisdom  of  even  this  small  outlay  was  questioned. 
While  the  subject  was  being  prayed  over,  an  unexpected 
letter  came  from  Shanghai  containing  a  gift  of  fifty  taels. 
"  We  thanked  God,"  wrote  Mr.  Taylor,  "  and  took  courage." 

The  story  of  this  gift  is  full  of  interest.  It  appears  that 
a  Singapore  Chinese,  who  had  been  spiritually  helped  by 
Mr.  Gamble  (who  welcomed  the  Lammermuir  party),  and 
had  been  baptized  by  Mr.  Taylor  shortly  after,  had  been 
much  impressed  by  the  way  in  which  these  pioneer  mission 
aries  were  adapting  themselves  to  Chinese  life  and  surround 
ings.  He  spoke  of  this  to  a  gentleman,  who,  as  a  visitor 
from  Japan,  was  temporarily  residing  in  Shanghai.  This 
friend  became  deeply  interested,  and  wrote  saying  that  he 
could  not  sufficiently  admire  the  self-renunciation  of  such 
noble  workers,  and  that  although  he  could  not  imitate  it, 
he  could  appreciate  it.  It  was,  he  said,  to  him  a  small 
matter  as  to  what  denomination  the  missionaries  belonged, 
and  he  would  be  happy  to  be  put  down  as  a  subscriber  of 
fifty  or  one  hundred  taels  a  year,  and  with  his  letter  he 
enclosed  an  order  for  fifty  taels,  equivalent  to  about  sixty- 
six  dollars. 

Encouraged  and  justified  by  the  receipt  of  this  sum, 
the  house  at  Siaoshan  was  rented  on  the  threshold  of  the 
New  Year,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Nicol  with  Mr.  Williamson 


48  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

went  into  residence.  Their  work,  however,  had  barely 
begun  before  the  mandarin  of  the  city  arrived,  apparently 
the  worse  for  liquor,  and  after  handling  Mr.  Nicol  somewhat 
roughly,  demanded  the  instant  withdrawal  of  the  whole 
party  from  the  city.  Their  passports  were  produced,  and 
the  official  was  invited  to  inspect  the  premises,  but  he  was 
implacable  and  had  their  evangelist,  Tsiu,  mercilessly  beaten 
before  their  eyes.  The  punishment  was  severe,  six  hundred 
lashes  on  the  bare  thighs  and  fifty  on  each  side  of  the  face. 
Much  as  the  missionaries  sympathized  with  their  faithful 
helper,  they  dared  not  interfere  between  an  official  and  a 
Chinese  subject,  but  to  prevent  further  suffering  they 
promised  to  leave  the  city  the  following  day.  In  a  few 
months,  however,  another  house  was  secured,  and  before 
the  year  closed  two  or  three  converts  had  been  baptized. 

In  Hangchow  the  work  was  greatly  prospered,  though 
even  here  serious  trouble  threatened  in  March  through 
emissaries  specially  sent  by  the  angered  official  at  Siaoshan, 
but  an  early  and  firm  representation  to  the  Governor  by 
the  three  Missions  working  in  the  city  providentially  checked 
this  in  time.  All  through  the  year  the  Mission  compound 
was  a  busy  centre  of  work.  Whenever  Mr.  Taylor  was 
at  home  the  dispensary  was  opened,  and  from  80  to 
200  patients  were  seen  daily,  while  an  equal  number 
heard  the  Gospel  preached.  For  the  purpose  of  a  Boarding 
School  the  house  next  door  was  mortgaged,  and  although 
the  majority  of  the  workers  were  but  new  arrivals,  remark 
able  blessings  attended  their  labours.  During  the  year  not 
less  than  twenty  new  converts  were  baptized,  and  in  July 
Wang  Lae-djun  was  ordained  as  Pastor  with  three  others  as 
Deacons.  The  premises  soon  proved  too  small  for  the  grow 
ing  work,  and  ere  the  year  closed  Mr.  Taylor  proposed  the 
erection  of  a  large  chapel  to  seat  from  four  to  five  hundred 
people. 

In  September  Mr.  Williamson  attempted  to  gain  a 
settlement  in  the  prefectural  city  of  Huchowfu,  living  mean 
time  on  a  boat.  Though  Mr.  Williamson  was  compelled, 
by  sickness,  to  retire,  Mr.  McCarthy  took  his  place,  and 
premises  were  rented  in  November.  Here  again  serious 


AN  ENLARGED  COAST  49 

opposition  had  to  be  faced  which  culminated  in  a  riot,  when 
Mr.  McCarthy  was  roughly  handled  and  his  two  Chinese 
assistants  were  most  severely  beaten.  This  outrage  took 
place  at  the  very  gates  of  the  Yamen  and  with  the  knowledge 
and  assistance  of  the  Yamen  underlings.  Had  not  Mr. 
M'Carthy  been  a  powerful  man  and  able  to  carry  one  of  his 
helpless  assistants  to  the  boat,  it  is  probable  that  this  man's 
life  would  have  been  lost. 

In  other  centres  cities  were  opened  with  less  difficulty 
though  not  without  trial.  In  July  Mr.  Meadows  and 
Mr.  Jackson  had  journeyed  south  to  the  beautifully  situated 
prefectural  city  of  Taichowfu.  Here,  through  the  kindness 
of  the  Abbot,  they  were  allowed  to  spend  their  first  night 
in  one  of  the  city  temples,  though  they  were  robbed  by 
burglars  in  the  morning.  Fortunately,  though  they  lost 
nearly  all  their  possessions,  their  money  was  left  untouched. 

"  The  things  I  have  lost,"  wrote  Mr.  Jackson,  "  I  could  not  replace 
for  $100  and  Mr.  Meadows  for  $10.  How  our  dollars  were  not  taken 
is  a  mystery  to  us  all,  as  my  bag  stood  upon  my  box,  at  the  side  of 
the  ones  taken,  and  Mr.  Meadow's  money  also  was  close  by.  In  this 
we  see  the  hand  of  the  Lord  clearer  than  in  any  event  of  our  lives." 

In  the  good  providence  of  God  the  officials  befriended 
them  and  houses  were  freely  offered.  Within  three  months 
Mr.  Jackson  was  able  to  write  and  say  that  the  people  were 
flocking  by  multitudes  to  the  chapel. 

Late  in  the  autumn  Mr.  Stott,  after  having  spent  eighteen 
months  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Ningpo,  also  reached  the 
city  of  Taichowfu,  whence  he  and  Mr.  Jackson  proceeded 
further  south  to  Wenchow,  the  most  southerly  prefectural 
city  of  the  province.  Here,  in  this  city  of  temples,  untouched 
by  the  Taiping  rebels,  situated  on  an  arm  of  the  sea  and  half 
surrounded  by  an  amphitheatre  of  mountains,  they  settled 
in  an  inn  in  November.  For  three  months  they  could  gain 
no  better  foothold  until  at  last  a  house  was  offered  by  a  man 
who  had  almost  ruined  himself  by  opium-smoking  and 
gambling.  From  this,  however,  Mr.  Stott  would  have  been 
speedily  ejected  had  his  weakness  not  proved  his  strength. 
Being  a  lame  man  he  presented  himself  to  the  crowd,  proved 

E 


50  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

to  them  that  he  could  not  run  away,  that  if  they  killed  him 
they  would  only  get  into  trouble,  but  if  they  let  him  stay 
they  would  find  he  would  do  no  harm.  And  it  proved,  as 
he  had  said  in  London,  when  questioned  as  to  the  wisdom 
of  his  going  to  China,  that  "  the  lame  shall  take  the  prey." 

For  over  two  years  Mr.  Stott  remained  on  alone,  neither 
seeing  the  face  nor  hearing  the  voice  of  a  fellow-countryman, 
and  not  so  much  as  leaving  the  city  for  a  single  night,  until 
in  February  1870  he  went  to  Shanghai  to  meet  his  bride. 

While  Jackson  and  Stott  had  been  pressing  south  to 
Taichowfu  and  Wenchow,  George  Duncan  had  been  pushing 
north  and  west  along  the  Grand  Canal  to  the  famous  city  of 
Soochow,  on  up  to  the  river  port  of  Chinkiang,  and  thence 
up  the  Yangtze  to  Nanking,  an  ancient  metropolis  of  the 
Empire.  This  city,  the  capital  of  the  province  of  Kiangsu, 
lately  the  headquarters  of  the  Taiping  rebel  Emperor,  was 
reached  on  September  18.  The  authorities,  although  pro 
fessedly  favourable,  sent  secret  orders  to  every  householder 
and  inn-keeper  not  to  receive  the  foreigner.  The  priest  in 
charge  of  the  Drum  Tower,  situated  in  the  centre  of  the  city, 
however,  allowed  him  to  sleep  in  the  temple  on  top  of  the 
large  gate-like  structure,  and  here  he  passed  his  nights  for 
a  month  or  more,  going  by  day  to  preach  in  the  streets  and 
obtain  his  meals  at  some  public  eating-house  or  teashop. 

By  October  18  he  succeeded  in  renting  half  a  house  in 
a  quiet  part  of  the  city.  These  premises  consisted  of  one 
large  room  upstairs  and  one  below,  and  Mr.  Duncan's 
portion  was  only  a  strip  six  feet  wide  partitioned  off  from 
these  rooms.  Thankful  to  gain  this  advantage,  he  used  the 
upper  section  for  his  bedroom  and  the  lower  section  for  a 
street  chapel.  As  time  passed  the  question  of  supplies 
became  one  of  much  importance.  Mr.  Duncan  had  given 
Mr.  Taylor  the  name  of  a  local  bank  to  which,  he  was  in 
formed,  money  could  be  sent,  but  this  bank  was  not  recog 
nized  in  Hangchow,  and  every  attempt  to  forward  funds 
proved  fruitless.  Duncan,  however,  was  not  the  man  to 
retire,  and  he  held  on  until  all  his  money  had  been  spent. 
Then  his  faithful  servant,  finding  he  would  not  borrow,  gave 
him  all  he  had  in  his  possession,  amounting  to  about  five 


AN  ENLARGED  COAST  51 

dollars.  In  spite  of  every  economy  this  was  spent  and 
relief  had  not  arrived,  and  then  his  colporteur  gave  him  ten 
dollars. 

Meanwhile  Mr.  Taylor  had  begun  to  be  really  concerned 
as  to  Duncan's  position,  and  at  last  despatched  Mr.  Rudland 
with  a  supply  of  money.  When  Rudland  reached  Nanking, 
having  been  specially  favoured  in  a  quick  journey  of  over 
300  miles,  he  found  Duncan  well  and  happy,  though  the 
last  of  these  ten  dollars  had  been  changed  and  he  had  not 
enough  money  left  to  provide  for  the  next  day.  Encouraged 
by  this  token  of  God's  care,  Duncan  laboured  on  in  Nanking 
until  his  return  to  England.1 

From  this  brief  sketch  we  have  seen  how  the  policy  of 
seeking  openings,  first  in  capitals  and  then  in  the  prefectural 
cities,  had  been  followed  throughout  the  first  whole  year 
since  the  Lammermuir  party  arrived,  and  how  remarkably 
successful  the  workers  had  been.  Writing  home  in  September, 
Mr.  Taylor  had  tabulated  the  situation  in  Chekiang  as 
follows  : 

Hangchowfu 


Q  Qter  mssonares< 

Nmgpo          / 
Shaohingfu  ^ 

Taichowfu     I  We  are  alone  in. 
Huchowfu     J 
Kashingfu     ^ 
Yenchowfu 

Chuchowfu    I  As  yet  unoccupied. 
Chiichowfu    j 
Wenchowfu  J 
Kinhwafu  has  a  Mission  station  but  no  resident  missionary. 

Thus  of  the  eleven  Fu  cities  and  of  the  eleven  departments  of 
which  they  are  the  capitals,  nearly  one-half  —  five  —  are  still  destitute  of 
the  Gospel.  I  hope,  if  spared,  ere  long  to  see  some  of  them  supplied. 

1  When  the  writer  of  these  lines  recently  visited  Nanking  and  stood 
upon  the  summit  of  that  Drum  Tower,  where  Duncan  had  first  found  a 
resting-place,  how  changed  the  situation  had  become.  From  that  tower 
could  be  seen  several  well-equipped  Mission  compounds,  a  Union  Hospital, 
Union  Mission  University,  a  Union  Bible  School,  and  other  centres  of 
aggressive  missionary  activity.  It  is  well  to-day  to  look  back  and  to 
remember  those  who  as  brave  pioneers  laid  the  foundations  of  present 
success. 


52  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

These  words  were  written  in  September,  and  we  have 
already  seen  that  since  that  date  Wenchow  had  been 
occupied,  as  well  as  Nanking  in  the  neighbouring  province 
of  Kiangsu.  This  is  a  wonderful  record  for  one  year.  When 
1867  closed,  instead  of  four  stations,  the  Mission  had  eight 
stations,  the  two  most  remote  being  twenty-four  days' 
journey  apart.  There  were  also  new  workers  on  their  way 
from  home,  among  whom  were  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Cardwell  and 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Judd,  including  whom  the  Mission  now  had  a 
membership  of  thirty-four.  The  prayer  of  Jabez,  with 
which  the  year  had  opened,  had  indeed  been  heard,  for  the 
Mission  had  been  blessed,  had  been  kept  from  evil  though 
not  from  trial,  and  had  been  given  an  enlarged  border. 


IX 
THE  YANGCHOW  RIOT 

WITH  the  year  1868  the  Mission  entered  upon  a  new  period 
in  its  history,  a  period  which  was  to  see  its  headquarters 
moved  from  Chekiang  to  Kiangsu,  and  a  period  in  which 
there  was  to  be  great  suffering  and  an  undesirable  notoriety. 

In  the  province  of  Chekiang,  ats  we  have  seen,  the  work 
had  taken  a  firm  hold.  From  Hangchow  during  1868  a 
Church  membership  of  about  sixty  persons  was  reported, 
most  of  whom  were  trophies  of  redeeming  grace  since  that 
station  had  been  opened.  At  Shaohingfu  Mr.  Stevenson, 
whose  home  was  on  a  busy  street,  had  become  well  known, 
and  during  this  new  year  the  first  ten  converts  were  baptized. 
Blessing  had  also  rested  upon  the  work  at  Ningpo,  though 
the  withdrawal  of  the  more  experienced  Christians  to  help 
elsewhere  told  against  local  progress.  During  the  early 
days  of  the  year  the  city  of  Ninghaihsien  was  opened  by 
Mr.  Crombie,  which  city,  however,  was  worked  as  one 
district  with  Fenghwa,  each  station  being  worked  as  the 
central  station  in  turn.  Premises  were  also  rented  in 
Kinhwafu,  another  prefecture,  but  had  to  be  relinquished 
because  of  opposition.  At  Taichowfu  and  Wenchow  we 
have  also  seen  the  pioneers  established,  so  that  the  time 
seemed  opportune  for  an  advance  northward  into  the 
province  of  Kiangsu. 

When  Mr.  Duncan  had  entered  Nanking  in  September 
1867,  there  were  no  other  missionaries  in  the  province,  with 
the  exception  of  at  Shanghai.  Shortly  afterwards  a  young 
Prussian,  Mr.  Schmidt,  an  ex-officer  in  General  Gordon's 

53 


54  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

army,  who  had  been  converted  through  Mr.  Meadows' 
ministry,  had  adopted  the  Chinese  dress  and  with  his  wife 
had  commenced  missionary  work  in  the  large  and  needy 
city  of  Soochow,  which  city  Mr.  Duncan  had  urged  the 
Mission  to  occupy.  In  March  1868  Mr.  Meadows,  accom 
panied  by  Mr.  Cordon,  also  succeeded  in  renting  commodious 
premises  there,  including  a  building  capable  of  seating  from 
100  to  150  persons  for  a  chapel.  A  school  was  opened  in 
June,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Cordon  carried  on  a  successful  work, 
until  in  1872  failing  health  compelled  the  workers  to  retire. 
Though  we  are  somewhat  anticipating  events,  it  may  here 
be  mentioned  that  by  that  time  it  had  become  evident  that. 
Soochow  would  be  efficiently  worked  by  other  Societies,  so 
that  station  was  relinquished  in  favour  of  more  distant  and 
needy  places. 

On  April  10,  shortly  after  Mr.  Meadows  had  secured  the 
premises  in  Soochow,  Mrs.  Hudson  Taylor  with  her  family, 
Miss  Blatchley,  Miss  M'Lean,  and  Mrs.  Cordon  left  Hangchow 
for  this  new  centre,  Mr.  Taylor,  who  was  ill,  following  a  fewT 
days  later.  After  a  stay  of  nearly  a  month  at  this  station, 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  and  family  with  Miss  Blatchley,  leaving 
the  other  workers  at  Soochow,  started  forward  for  the 
River  Yangtze.  On  the  eve  of  starting  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  : 

We  are  leaving  this  place  (Soochow),  D.V.,  to-morrow  (May  17) 
for  Nanking,  calling  at  several  places  on  our  way.  ...  I  trust  there 
will  be  no  difficulty  in  our  friends  remaining  in  Soochow.  The  people 
seem  friendly  and  so  far  the  authorities 'have  taken  no  notice  of  us, 
though  fully  aware  of  our  presence.  .  .  .  Difficulties  we  must  expect, 
and  shall  ever  meet  with,  but  if  on  the  whole  we  make  progress,  and 
if  souls  are  being  brought  to  Christ,  this  is  what  we  came  for. 

How  serious  those  difficulties  and  perplexities  were  soon 
to  become  was  mercifully  veiled  from  him  then. 

Towards  the  end  of  the  month  Chinkiang  was  reached, 
and  Mr.  Taylor  was  immediately  impressed  with  the  im 
portance  of  the  place  as  a  centre  for  future  developments  ; 
for  Chinkiang  is  situated  on  the  south  bank  of  the  Yangtze, 
just  where  the  southern  and  northern  sections  of  the  Grand 
Canal  enter  that  great  central  waterway  of  China.  There 
were  then  no  missionaries  there,  though  the  London 


THE  YANGCHOW  RIOT  55 

Missionary  Society  had  a  small  chapel  in  charge  of  a  Chinese 
helper  in  the  western  suburbs,  and  Mr.  Taylor  began  to 
enquire  for  premises.  Without  delaying  long  enough  to 
obtain  a  settlement,  however,  he  proceeded  to  Yangchow, 
a  city  of  some  360,000  inhabitants,  located  about  fifteen 
miles  up  the  northern  branch  of  the  Canal.  This  famous 
city,  where  Marco  Polo  had  once  held  office  as  Mandarin, 
was  reached  on  June  i,  and  after  a  delay  of  a  week  in  boats 
which  let  in  the  rain,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  and  party  moved 
into  a  comfortable  inn  inside  the  city. 

With  his  family  settled  thus  temporarily,  Mr.  Taylor 
appears  to  have  returned  to  Chinkiang,  where  he  at  length 
found  a  house  inside  the  West  Gate,  which  the  owners 
promised  to  let  if  a  proclamation  could  be  procured  from 
the  magistrate.  This  Mr.  Taylor  agreed  to  obtain,  expect 
ing  no  difficulty,  as  the  Taotai  had  given  one  the  previous 
year  to  be  hung  in  the  L.M.S.  chapel  already  referred  to. 
The  deeds  of  rental  were  signed  on  June  24,  after  nearly  a 
month's  negotiations,  and  possession  was  promised  in  about 
a  fortnight.  Mr.  Taylor  at  once  sent  word  to  Hangchow  for 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Rudland  to  leave  that  city  and  come,  bringing 
the  printing  presses  and  Chinese  printers,  and  settle  at 
Chinkiang.  The  Assistant  British  Consul  kindly  applied 
for  the  proclamation,  and  the  Taotai  promised  the  same. 
The  Hsien  magistrate,  however,  a  man  who  had  been 
removed  from  Shanghai,  on  account  of  his  anti-foreign 
conduct,  at  the  instance  of  Sir  Rutherford  Alcock,  the 
British  Minister,  determined  to  resist,  and  the  success  of 
this  official  in  worsting  the  foreigner  and  his  Consul  soon 
became  the  talk  of  all  the  local  teashops. 

Meanwhile  at  Yangchow  Mr.  Taylor  had  been  more 
successful. 

"  After  a  tedious  battle  with  difficulties,  the  narration  of  which 
within  reasonable  limits  is  impossible,  and  after  fruitless  negotiations 
for  perhaps  thirty  different  houses,  we  succeeded,"  wrote  Mr.  Taylor, 
"  in  renting  one  on  the  iyth  July,  the  Prefect  having  given  us  a  pro 
clamation  ;  and  some  of  my  family  moved  into  the  house  on  the  20th." 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Rudland  with  Miss  Desgraz,  as  advised,  left 
Hangchow  only  to  find  that  a  settlement  at  Chinkiang  was 


56  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

not  as  easy  as  had  been  expected.  They  therefore  pro 
ceeded  to  Yangchow  and  joined  the  friends  there.  For  the 
first  fortnight  after  settling  in  the  curiosity  of  the  people, 
though  troublesome,  caused  no  serious  anxiety,  but  when 
the  news  of  the  rebuff  given  by  the  official  at  Chinkiang — a 
rebuff  not  only  to  Mr.  Taylor  but  to  the  Assistant  Consul,  who 
had  been  promised  the  proclamation, — reached  Yangchow, 
the  idea  of  ejecting  the  foreign  visitors  from  their  city  also 
readily  suggested  itself  to  the  scholars.  At  this  juncture 
Messrs.  Duncan  and  Reid  crossed  over  from  Nanking  to 
visit  Mr.  Taylor,  the  former  of  these  being  on  his  way  to 
Shanghai  to  be  married.  Finding  that  trouble  threatened, 
there  being  then  a  mob  of  from  100  to  200  people  gathered 
about  the  doors,  and  that  Mr.  Taylor,  who  had  only  just 
recovered  from  a  serious  illness,  was  physically  unequal  to 
sitting  from  morning  to  night  at  the  door  of  the  Mission 
premises  talking  to  the  people,  Mr.  Duncan,  who  was  a  man 
of  great  courage  and  a  fluent  speaker  of  Mandarin,  decided 
to  remain  and  give  such  assistance  as  was  possible.1 

When  the  riot  broke  out  the  following  members  of  the 

1  In  regard  to  riots  in  China  the  long-standing  enmity  of  the  literati 
of  China  to  all  things  foreign  must  be  remembered  as  well  as  the  fact  that 
the  Chinese  people  were  at  that  period  "  in  the  point  of  superstition  very 
much  where  we  were  in  the  sixteenth  century."  Should  the  literati  stir 
up  the  passions  of  the  people  by  playing  upon  their  superstitious  fears, 
few  officials  had  the  moral  courage  as  well  as  the  ability  to  keep  the  peace 
for  long,  for  their  tenure  of  office  was  largely  dependent  upon  the  goodwill 
of  the  scholarly  class. 

Du  Halde  tells  of  a  book  dated  as  early  as  1624  which  circulated  the 
base  and  foolish  charges  of  the  foreigners  kidnapping  children,  extracting 
their  eyes,  heart,  and  liver,  etc.,  for  medicine,  and  the  Roman  Catholic 
practice  of  extreme  unction,  and  the  habit  of  closing  the  eyes  of  the  dead, 
may  have  given  some  basis  for  part  of  such  a  belief.  In  1862  a  book 
entitled  Death-blow  to  Corrupt  Doctrine — a  book  republished  at  the  time 
of  the  Tientsin  massacre  in  1870 — brought  forward  similar  charges.  In 
1866  Mr.  S.  R.  Grundy,  the  Times  correspondent  in  China,  called  attention 
to  a  proclamation  extensively  circulated  in  Hunan  and  the  adjacent 
provinces.  Clause  VII.  of  this  Proclamation  read  :  "  When  a  (Chinese) 
member  of  their  religion  (Roman  Catholic)  is  on  his  death-bed,  several 
of  his  co-religionists  come  and  exclude  his  relatives  while  they  offer  prayers 
for  his  salvation.  The  fact  is,  while  the  breath  is  still  in  his  body  they 
scoop  out  his  eyes  and  cut  out  his  heart ;  which  they  use  in  their  country 
in  the  manufacture  of  false  silver." 

In  the  riots  of  1891  similar  charges  coupled  with  others  of  a  more 
blasphemous  nature  were  placarded  throughout  China,  which  were  subse 
quently  traced  to  a  scholar  resident  in  Changsha,  the  capital  of  Hunan. 


THE  YANGCHOW  RIOT  57 

Mission  were  in  Yangchow  :  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  with  four 
children,  Miss  Blatchley,  Miss  Desgraz,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Rudland, 
and  Messrs.  Duncan  and  Reid.  About  a  fortnight  before 
the  storm  burst  a  meeting  of  the  literati  was  held  in  the  city, 
and  ere  long  anonymous  handbills  were  posted  up  through 
out  the  city  containing  many  absurd  and  foul  charges. 
These  handbills  were  followed  by  large  posters  calling  the 
foreigners  "  Brigands  of  the  religion  of  Jesus,"  and  stating 
that  they  scooped  out  the  eyes  of  the  dying  and  opened 
foundling  hospitals  in  order  that  they  might  eat  the  children. 
A  still  more  vile  and  irritating  placard  was  freely  posted  up 
on  Sunday,  August  16.  The  Prefect  had  already  been 
warned  of  the  impending  trouble,  but  only  gave  an  evasive 
answer.  All  possible  conciliatory  measures  were  adopted 
by  the  missionaries,  handbills  wrere  circulated  promising  the 
opening  of  the  premises  for  inspection  as  soon  as  the  work 
men  had  repaired  the  unfinished  walls  and  removed  the 
scaffolding  which  would  be  dangerous  to  a  crowd. 

On  Saturday,  August  22,  two  foreigners  came  over  from 
Chinkiang  to  spend  a  few  hours  sight-seeing  in  the  city, 
and  almost  immediately  the  city  was  full  of  the  wildest 
rumours  as  to  the  disappearance  of  twenty-four  children. 
By  4  P.M.  the  Mission  premises  were  besieged.  Messengers 
were  despatched  to  the  Prefect,  but  with  no  effect.  The 
evil  passions  of  the  crowd  were  speedily  being  let  loose,  and 
at  last,  when  the  attack  upon  the  premises  had  become 
general,  Mr.  Taylor  and  Mr.  Duncan  determined  to  face  the 
mob  and  try  and  make  their  way  personally  to  the 
Yamen. 

The  limits  of  this  volume  will  not  allow  space  for  the 
harrowing  and  pathetic  story  of  that  night  and  succeeding 
day  to  be  told  in  any  detail  :  how  Mr.  Taylor  and  Mr. 
Duncan,  after  having  been  badly  stoned,  reached  the  Yamen 
in  an  exhausted  condition  to  find  the  terrified  gatekeepers 
closing  the  gates  ;  how  the  doors  gave  way  before  the 
pressure  of  the  mob  when  the  missionaries  rushed  into  the 
judgment  hall  crying  Kiu  ming!  Kiu  ming  !  ("Save  life! 
Save  life  !  "),  a  cry  to  which  any  official  is  bound  to  attend 
at  any  hour,  day  or  night ;  how  they  were  kept  waiting 


58  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

in  an  agony  of  suspense  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour  before 
they  saw  the  Prefect,  and  then  only  to  be  provokingly  asked, 
"  What  do  you  really  do  with  the  babies  ?  "  ;  how  this  inter 
view  was  followed  by  another  agonizing  delay  of  two  hours 
before  they  learned  that  help  had  been  sent,  though  even 
then  they  were  told  on  their  way  back  that  all  the  foreigners 
left  in  the  house  had  been  killed. 

Nor  can  we  relate  the  details  of  the  painful  and  truly 
awful  experiences  of  those  left  in  the  Mission  house  :  how 
they  feared  that  the  two  who  had  faced  the  mob  had  been 
torn  to  pieces  ;  how  when  the  house  was  fired  from  below 
the  children  and  ladies  had  to  be  lowered  from  the  upper 
story,  and  Mrs.  Taylor  and  Miss  Blatchley  with  their  escape 
cut  off  had  to  jump,  both  to  be  seriously  injured  ;  and  of 
how  Mr.  Reid  was  nearly  blinded  for  life  by  being  struck  in 
the  eye  with  a  brick  when  trying  to  break  Mrs.  Taylor's 
fall. 

That  any  of  the  party  escaped  to  tell  the  tale  was  little 
less  than  a  miracle,  especially  as  on  the  following  day  the 
guard,  sent  all  too  late,  was  withdrawn,  and  the  terrible 
scenes  of  fury  were  enacted  over  again.  Yet  in  the  provi 
dence  of  God  the  whole  party,  several  of  whom  were  severely 
wounded  and  weak  from  the  loss  of  blood,  wrere  enabled  on 
Monday,  the  anniversary  of  little  Gracie  Taylor's  death,  to 
journey  down  to  Chinkiang,  where  they  were  most  kindly 
treated  and  cared  for. 

On  their  way  down  to  Chinkiang  they  passed  the  Assistant 
British  Consul  and  the  American  Consul  on  their  way  up, 
coming  to  the  rescue.  The  Consular  Authorities  proceeded 
to  investigate  the  situation  personally,  and  reported  their 
findings  direct  to  Mr.  W.  H.  Medhurst,  the  British  Consul 
at  Shanghai,  who  had  full  jurisdiction  at  that  time  over  that 
district.  Mr.  Medhurst  made  prompt  demands  for  repara 
tion.  Proceeding  with  an  escort  to  Yangchow  he  demanded 
that  the  Prefect  should  accompany  him  to  Nanking  that 
the  case  might  be  judged  before  the  Viceroy.  The  Prefect 
begged  to  be  allowed  to  go  in  his  own  boat  and  not  as  a 
prisoner,  and  this  was  agreed  to  upon  his  furnishing  his  written 
promise  not  to  escape.  This  he  readily  gave,  yet  fled  under 


THE  YANGCHOW  RIOT  59 

cover  of  darkness.  Thereupon  Mr.  Medhurst  proceeded  to 
Nanking -with  the  gunboat  Rinaldo  as  escort.  In  the  course  of 
the  negotiations,  which  promised  to  terminate  satisfactorily, 
the  captain  of  the  gunboat  took  ill  and  left  for  Shanghai. 
With  the  withdrawal  of  the  gunboat  the  aspect  of  affairs 
immediately  changed,  and  Mr.  Medhurst  had  to  depart 
diplomatically  worsted.  This  failure  led  Sir  Rutherford 
Alcock  to  authorize  Consul  Medhurst  to  renew  his  demands, 
this  time  backed  by  a  naval  squadron.  The  Viceroy  Tseng 
Kwo-fan  speedily  came  to  terms,  and  appointed  two  deputies 
to  proceed  to  Yangchow  and  hold  an  enquiry.  A  pro 
clamation  was  thereupon  issued  which  secured  the  rein 
statement  of  the  Mission,  compensation  for  damages  to 
property,  and  moral  status  in  the  eyes  of  the  people  by 
stating  that  "  British  subjects  possess  the  right  to  enter 
the  land,"  and  that  "  Local  Authorities  everywhere  are  to 
extend  due  protection." 

When  the  news  of  the  riot  and  naval  demonstration 
reached  England,  there  appeared  such  an  anti-missionary 
article  in  the  Times  as  to-day  would  be  almost  impossible, 
and  Missions  were  attacked  and  defended  in  Parliament.1 
As  this  was  the  first  serious  riot  in  the  Mission's  history, 
and  the  one  for  which  it  was  most  severely  criticized,  it  may 
not  be  out  of  place  to  enter  a  little  more  fully  into  details 
than  will  be  possible  with  other  riots. 

In  the  first  place  it  should  be  said  that  the  Mission  did 

1  "  The  attack  on  the  Mission,  however,  was  rather  the  occasion  than 
the  cause  of  his  action.  There  had  been  many  violations  of  the  treaties 
and  much  interference  with  British  trade  ;  and  the  English  Government 
had  been  on  the  look-out  for  a  convenient  opportunity  of  making  a 
demonstration.  It  was  in  the  interest,  therefore,  more  of  the  merchants 
than  of  the  missionaries  that  a  fleet  of  seven  ships-of-war  presently  ap 
peared.  But  of  course  it  suited  the  anti-missionary  public  at  home  to 
indulge  in  the  usual  tirade  about '  the  Gospel  and  the  Gunboat '  ;  and  this 
was  done  with  the  omission  of  no  element  of  offensiveness  by  the  Duke 
of  Somerset  in  the  House  of  Lords.  It  was  in  the  debate  that  ensued  that 
Bishop  Magee  delivered,  on  the  spur  of  the  moment,  his  maiden  speech 
in  that  assembly,  which  at  one  bound  established  his  fame  as  one  of  the 
most  brilliant  debaters  of  the  day.  It  was  a  crushing  rejoinder  to  the 
Duke,  and  a  masterly  vindication  of  the  right  of  an  Englishman  to  take 
Bibles  to  China  as  much  as  cotton  or  opium,  and  of  his  right  under  the 
treaties  to  the  same  protection  as  the  merchant,  neither  more  nor  less." 
(Dr.  Eugene  Stock  in  The  History  of  the  Church  Missionary  Society,  vol.  ii. 
pp.  591-2.) 


60  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

not  appeal  for  either  compensation  or  revenge.     Mrs.  Taylor, 
writing  to  a  friend  at  the  time,  said  : 

In  the  riot  we  asked  the  protection  of  the  Chinese  Mandarin.  .  .  . 
After  our  lives  were  safe  and  we  were  in  shelter,  we  asked  no  restitution, 
we  desired  no  revenge.  I  think  I  may  say  with  truthfulness  that  we 
took  cheerfully  the  spoiling  of  our  goods.  But  a  resident  at  Chinkiang, 
up  to  that  time  a  perfect  stranger  to  most  of  us,  and  only  slightly 
acquainted  with  my  dear  husband,  wrote  stirring  accounts  to  the 
Shanghai  papers  (without  our  knowledge),  and  public  feeling  demanded 
that  action,  prompt  and  decisive  should  be  taken  by  our  authorities. 
And  this  was  taken  unsolicited  by  us. 

Perhaps  one  secret  of  our  matter  being  taken  up  so  warmly  was 
that  it  was  looked  upon  as  a  climax  to  a  series  of  provocations  which 
the  English  had  received  from  the  Chinese,  and  the  representatives  of 
our  Government  were,  I  believe,  not  sorry  to  have  an  opportunity  of, 
and  a  good  ground  for,  settling  off  a  number  of  old  counts. 

With  regard  to  the  refusing  or  returning  restitution  money.  Would 
it  be  right  ?  We  did  not  ask  for  it ;  but  when  it  is  claimed  for  us  by 
those  who  as  our  rulers  and  "  God's  Ministers  "  (wittingly  or  un 
wittingly)  espouse  our  cause,  ought  we  to  say,  "  No,  we  will  not  take 
it  "  ?  We  may  have  been  mistaken,  but  we  have  acted  on  what  seemed 
to  us  right  principles.  Especially  have  we  sought  to  be  kept  from 
the  curse  of  the  man  "  that  trusteth  in  man,  that  maketh  flesh  his 
arm."  ...  As  to  the  harsh  judgings  of  the  world,  or  the  more  painful 
misunderstandings  of  Christian  brethren,  I  generally  feel  that  the  best 
plan  is  to  go  on  with  our  work,  and  leave  God  to  vindicate  our  cause. 
I  suggest  that  it  would  be  unwise  to  print  the  fact  that  Mr.  Medhurst 
and  through  him  Sir  Rutherford  Alcock  took  up  the  matter  without 
application  from  us.  The  new  Ministry  at  home  censures  those  out 
here  for  the  policy  which  the  late  Ministry  enjoined  upon  them.  It 
would  be  ungenerous  and  ungrateful  if  we  were  to  render  their  position 
more  uncomfortable  by  throwing  all  the  onus,  as  it  were,  upon  them. 

We  have  quoted  this  excellent  letter  at  some  length  on 
a  subject  of  considerable  difficulty,  as  it  contains  some  seed 
thoughts  from  which  the  policy  of  the  Mission  has  to  a  large 
extent  grown  up.  The  Mission  has  never  made  or  counten 
anced  any  demand  for  compensation  for  life.  It  has  never 
claimed  compensation  for  Mission  property,  though  it  has 
sometimes  accepted  this  when  offered  by  the  Chinese 
Government,  or  been  claimed  by  the  British,  American,  or 
Continental  Government,  as  the  case  might  be.  In  later 
years,  however,  the  Mission  has  generally  declined  com- 


THE  YANGCHOW  RIOT  61 

pensation  for  property,  as,  for  instance,  after  the  Boxer  crisis, 
when  it  was  deemed  better,  as  far  as  possible,  to  spare  further 
expense  to  the  Chinese,  who  had  already  suffered  severely 
during  the  campaign  and  by  the  indemnity  for  injuries  to 
other  foreigners.  The  good  effects  of  this  course  on  that 
occasion  in  healing  bitterness  was  very  marked. 

The  spirit  in  which  the  Yangchow  riot  was  endured  cannot 
be  better  illustrated  than  by  brief  extracts  from  letters 
written  at  the  time.  Mrs.  Taylor,  who  had  suffered  so 
severely,  and  at  a  time  when  she  specially  needed  care  and 
protection,  wrote  as  follows  : 

The  faithful  and  tender  love  that  preserved  all  our  lives  and  restored 
us  to  each  other  at  that  terrible  time  will,  I  trust,  inspire  us  with  fresh 
confidence  in  the  future.  ...  I  shall  count  our  physical  sufferings 
light  and  our  mental  anxieties,  severe  though  they  were,  well  repaid, 
if  they  may  work  out  for  the  further  opening  up  of  the  country  to  us 
for  the  spread  of  our  Master's  Kingdom. 

Mr.  Taylor,  also  writing  to  the  friends  of  the  Mission  a 
little  more  than  a  fortnight  after  the  riot,  said  : 

In  our  efforts  to  evangelize  Huchowfu  and  Kinhwafu  we  were 
foiled,  and  now  in  Yangchow  we  have  met  with  more  serious  dangers 
and  loss  than  we  had  hitherto  experienced.  .  .  .  We  are  not  dis 
appointed  ;  we  are  not  daunted.  We  expected  to  meet  with  difficulties, 
but  we  counted  on  God's  help  and  protection  ;  and  so  far  from  being 
disheartened,  we  take  courage  from  the  goodness  of  God  to  us  in  our 
extreme  peril ;  and  from  the  very  opposition  of  Satan,  are  the  more 
determined  to  continue  the  conflict.  But  we  ask  and  need  your 
sympathy  and  prayers,  for  by  God's  help  alone  we  stand  ;  and  stand 
we  most  assuredly  shall,  for  He  has  said  "  I  will  never  leave  thee  nor 
forsake  thee."  It  is  indeed  far  from  improbable  that  ere  the  Gospel 
can  permeate  the  more  remote  provinces  of  China,  some  of  us  may  be 
called  upon  to  seal  our  testimony  with  our  blood.  But  we  are  en 
couraged  to  hope  from  God's  sustaining  grace  in  our  recent  trial,  that, 
in  such  circumstances,  as  our  day  so  shall  our  strength  be. 

With  this  confidence  in  God  the  future  was  faced  with 
a  good  courage,  and  on  November  18  Mr.  Taylor  was  re 
instated  in  his  house  at  Yangchow  by  the  British  Consul 
and  the  Taotai  from  Shanghai,  who  had  come  up  as  the 
Viceroy's  deputy.  For  some  time  Yangchow  became  the 
home  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  despite  the  efforts  of  some 


62  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

high-placed  officials  to  eject  them.  The  Governor  of 
Chinkiang,  however,  personally  purchased  the  Mission 
premises  from  the  anti-foreign  landlord — a  high  military 
official  named  Li — and  this  removed  one  source  of  possible 
trouble.  The  subsequent  history  of  the  men  who  had  been 
responsible  for  this  terrible  riot  is  full  of  solemn  significance. 
Some  of  them  lost  their  lives,  while  others  fell  into  serious 
disgrace,  until  the  people  of  the  city  recognized  the  retributive 
visitation  of  Heaven  in  these  judgments.  "God  can  yet  say  to 
a  people/'  wrote  Mr.  Taylor,  "  'Touch not  mine  anointed,  and 
do  my  prophets  no  harm/  and  not  infrequently  He  does  so." 
Mr.  Berger,  in  an  explanatory  letter  to  the  Times,  April  14, 
1869,  wrote  as  follows  : 

I  would  add  that  the  missionaries  are  again  at  Yangchow  and  in 
their  former  house ;  and  I  hope  that  by  kind  action  they  may  yet 
disarm  prejudice,  gain  the  esteem  of  the  well-disposed  and  silence  the 
foolish ;  and  that  the  day  is  not  far  distant  when,  through  God's 
blessing,  they  shall  in  this  very  place  of  their  trials,  succeed  in  dis 
seminating  the  knowledge  of  Him  who  is  the  Light  of  the  World  and 
the  Life  of  men. 

Though  it  does  not  belong  to  this  period  of  our  history 
we  cannot  refrain,  ere  we  close  this  chapter,  from  calling 
attention  to  the  way  in  which  this  hope  was  realized,  and  to 
the  wonderful  contrast  of  the  events  of  1868  and  1912. 
Here  in  this  city,  the  scene  of  the  riot  described,  General 
Hsu  Pao-san,  the  Commander  of  the  2nd  Army  Corps,  after 
the  revolution,  gave  the  hitherto  unheard-of  opportunity  of 
distributing  Christian  literature  among  the  troops,  deputed 
his  younger  brother,  the  Military  Governor  of  the  city,  to 
arrange  for  the  regular  preaching  of  the  Gospel  to  his 
officers  and  men,  and  when  the  Rev.  A.  R.  Saunders,  who 
had  been  the  leader  in  this  work,  subsequently  left  for 
furlough,  he  ordered  all  the  members  of  his  Staff,  with  a 
Guard  of  Honour  of  5000  infantry  and  their  officers,  to 
accompany  the  missionary  and  his  wife  to  the  banks  of  the 
Grand  Canal,  where  they  embarked  for  home.  The  suffer 
ings  of  the  noble  pioneers,  who,  with  the  exception  of  the 
children,  had  by  1912  all  passed  to  their  reward,  had  not 
been  in  vain  in  the  Lord. 


X 

TWO  NEW  PROVINCES 

WE  have  already  seen  that  during  the  year  1868  four  new 
stations  had  been  opened.  These  were  Ninghai  in  Chekiang, 
and  Soochow,  Chinkiang,  and  Yangchow  in  Kiangsu.  The 
strategic  importance  of  these  places  may  not  at  first  sight  be 
obvious  to  every  reader,  so  it  may  be  said  that  with  Chin 
kiang  on  the  Yangtze,  some  fifty  miles  east  of  Nanking,  and 
with  Soochow  on  the  Grand  Canal,  half-way  between 
Chinkiang  and  Hangchow,  there  was  now  a  complete  chain 
of  stations  linking  up  the  capital  of  Kiangsu,  on  the  great 
central  waterway  of  China,  with  Wenchow,  the  most  southerly 
prefecture  in  the  province  of  Chekiang. 

With  the  opening  of  Yangchow  the  Mission  had  struck 
out  in  a  new  direction,  for  that  city  was  situated  on  the 
northern  section  of  the  Grand  Canal,  which  in  those  days, 
before  the  sea-route  had  become  popular,  was  the  highroad 
from  the  south  to  Peking  and  the  northern  provinces.  After 
the  riot  related  in  the  previous  chapter,  and  while  the  Consular 
negotiations  in  regard  to  this  trouble  were  still  proceeding, 
Mr.  Taylor,  accompanied  by  Mr.  Williamson,  made  a  long 
journey  north  of  Yangchow  as  far  as  Tsingkiangpu,  which 
is  located  about  three  miles  south  of  the  spot  where  the  Grand 
Canal  crosses  the  old  bed  of  the  Yellow  River.  With  the 
spirit  of  the  pioneer,  Mr.  Taylor,  reluctant  to  await  in 
actively  a  settlement  of  the  Yangchow  troubles,  visited 
during  this  journey  no  fewer  than  four  walled  cities  and 
twenty-five  towns  and  villages.  While,  on  the  one  hand, 
his  spirit  longed  and  his  heart  yearned  for  the  conversion 

63 


64  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

of  the  people  he  saw  around  him,  his  eyes  were  ever  looking 
upon  the  needs  of  the  whole  Empire,  and  in  Tsingkiangpu 
he  thought  he  saw  a  position  of  importance  for  reaching  the 
regions  beyond.  This  important  commercial  centre  might, 
he  thought,  become  a  half-way  station  to  Kaifeng,  the 
capital  of  Honan,  one  of  the  unoccupied  provinces,  and 
also  a  centre  through  which  funds  might  possibly  be  trans 
mitted  to  the  provinces  of  Shensi,  Shansi,  Shantung,  and 
Chihli. 

Obviously  unable  to  stay,  as  his  presence  was  necessary 
for  the  reoccupation  of  Yangchow,  Mr.  Taylor  and  Mr. 
Williamson  returned,  but  in  the  next  year  Mr.  Duncan 
set  out  from  Nanking,  and  succeeded  on  July  20,  1869,  in 
renting  premises  in  Tsingkiangpu,  the  possession  of  which 
was  peacefully  effected.  Towards  the  end  of  December 
of  the  same  year  Mr.  Reid  moved  there  with  his  valued 
Chinese  assistant,  Chu  Sien-seng. 

Soon  after  the  settlement  of  the  Yangchow  troubles  the 
time  seemed  ripe  for  an  attempt  to  occupy  the  province  of 
Anhwei,  which  province  had  suffered  severely  during  the 
Taiping  rebellion,  some  thirty  of  its  thirty-nine  millions  being 
said  to  have  perished.  Extensive  emigration,  however,  had 
by  the  close  of  1868  considerably  increased  its  population 
and  after  many  prayers,  an  effort  was  made  to  enter  this 
unoccupied  province.  As  Mr.  M'Carthy  was  now  able  to 
carry  on  the  work  at  Ningpo,  Mr.  Meadows,  who  had  had 
from  six  to  seven  years'  experience  in  China,  was  set  free 
from  that  station  for  the  new  venture  into  Anhwei.  During 
the  closing  days  of  the  year  1868  he  in  company  with 
Mr.  Williamson  started  from  Chinkiang  for  Anking.  Such 
a  pioneer  undertaking  was  no  light  matter,  for  there  was  a 
spirit  of  serious  unrest  abroad  throughout  the  country.  In 
addition  to  the  Yangchow  riot,  there  had  been  anti-foreign 
outbreaks  at  Swatow,  in  Formosa,  in  Shantung,  and  in 
Chekiang,  while  an  agent  of  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible 
Society,  Mr.  Johnson,  had  been  murdered  near  the  borders 
of  the  very  province  these  workers  were  now  hoping  to 
enter. 

The  city  of  Anking  was  reached  early  in  the  New  Year, 


TWO  NEW  PROVINCES  65 

1869,  and  after  spending  a  week,  while  living  on  their  boat, 
vainly  seeking  for  a  house,  they  left  their  Chinese  helpers 
to  continue  the  search  for  premises,  while  they  travelled 
on  to  Kiukiang,  the  nearest  river  port,  to  make  arrangements 
for  the  forwarding  of  letters  and  supplies.  After  a  brief 
stay  at  Kiukiang,  where  they  found  two  missionaries  of  the 
American  Methodist  Episcopal  Mission,  the  only  Protestant 
messengers  of  the  Cross  in  the  province  of  Kiangsi,  they 
returned  to  Anking  and  rejoined  their  Chinese  helpers,  being 
compelled  for  some  time  to  live  in  an  inn.  Many  weary 
negotiations  followed,  during  which  their  patience  was  sorely 
tried  by  varied  forms  of  opposition,  but  eventually  a  house 
was  secured  in  a  central  part  of  the  city,  a  little  off  one 
of  the  busy  streets,  though  considerable  alterations  and 
additions  were  necessary  before  occupation  was  possible. 
Meantime,  Mrs.  Meadows  with  the  children  had  joined  her 
husband  in  the  inn,  and  here  they  resided  until,  during  the 
summer,  they  were  able  to  move  into  the  new  premises. 

Much  caution  had  to  be  exercised  in  those  days  to  avoid 
suspicion.  No  public  meetings  were  held,  and  all  the  work 
done  was  of  a  personal  and  private  nature.  Matters  pro 
gressed  favourably  until  the  public  examinations,  which 
commenced  towards  the  end  of  September.  The  district 
examinations,  which  came  first,  passed  off  without  trouble, 
but  during  the  prefectural  examinations  there  were  from 
fifteen  to  twenty  thousand  students  congregated  in  the  city. 
On  November  2,  the  crowds  began  to  assemble  round  the 
house,  and  the  following  day  placards  appeared  containing 
the  old  story  of  nameless  barbarities.  Without  delay  Mr. 
Meadows  and  Mr.  Williamson  called  upon  the  Taotai  to 
acquaint  him  with  the  situation,  but  he  only  made  excuses 
for  not  seeing  them.  When  retiring  from  the  Yamen  they 
were  attacked  by  a  mob  of  military  candidates  and  literary 
students,  and  were  obliged  to  beat  a  hasty  retreat  back  into 
the  judgment  hall.  Meanwhile,  the  Mission  premises  had 
been  attacked  and  looted,  and  Mrs.  Meadows,  who  was 
alone  with  her  children,  had  been  somewhat  roughly  handled. 
A  faithful  servant,  however,  had  stood  by  her,  and  he,  after 
first  leading  her  son  to  the  Yamen,  returned  and  personally 

F 


66  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

escorted  Mrs.  Meadows,  who  was  carrying  her  infant,  there 
also.  With  the  destruction  of  the  premises  there  seemed  no 
other  course  for  the  workers  but  to  retire  to  Chinkiang, 
where  new  Mission  premises  had  been  occupied  on  January  i 
of  the  same  year.  During  their  absence  the  Viceroy  of 
Nanking  dealt  efficiently  with  this  disturbance,  and  on 
February  23, 1870,  the  workers  were  formally  reinstated  by 
the  officials.  Thus  was  Anhwei,  the  first  wholly  unoccupied 
province,  entered  by  the  Mission,  and  for  the  next  fifteen 
years  the  C.I.M.  was  the  only  Protestant  Society  at  work 
in  this  province. 

During  the  same  year,  1869,  the  Mission  was  also  privileged 
to  enter  another  province,  namely,  Kiangsi.  Mr.  J.  E. 
Cardwell,  for  seven  years  before  leaving  England,  had  had 
the  needs  of  this  province  laid  upon  his  heart.  When  he 
arrived  in  China,  however,  he  was  located  in  the  city  of 
Taichowfu,  in  Cheldang,  where  his  health  speedily  failed. 
Though  strongly  advised  to  return  to  England,  he  felt  he 
could  not  do  so  without  attempting  something  for  the 
province  for  which  he  had  prayed  so  long.  He  therefore 
proceeded  to  Kiukiang,  which  river  port  he  reached  in 
December  1869.  Here  his  health  rapidly  recovered,  and 
after  a  time  devoted  to  the  necessary  study  of  the  language 
he  gave  himself  to  extensive  itinerations  throughout  the 
province,  upwards  of  a  hundred  cities  and  towns  being 
visited,  and  fifteen  thousand  portions  of  the  Scriptures 
being  sold  within  the  next  two  years. 

In  addition  to  the  entry  into  these  two  new  provinces, 
Mr.  Stevenson  was  enabled  to  extend  his  work  as  far 
as  Chenghsien,  a  city  72  miles  S.E.  of  Shaohingfu. 
Mr.  Jackson  had  also  opened  up  Hwangyen,  a  city 
situated  some  20  miles  south  of  Taichowfu.  At  the 
close  of  the  year,  the  most  remote  stations  of  the  Mission 
were  five  or  six  weeks'  journey  apart  from  each  other,  and 
the  aggregate  area  of  the  district  in  which  the  mission 
aries  were  resident,  and  through  which  they  were  preparing 
to  evangelize  by  itinerations,  was  between  150,000  and 
200,000  square  miles.  Such  developments  were  not  in 
considerable,  though  the  year  was,  Mr.  Taylor  said,  more 


TWO  NEW  PROVINCES  67 

characterized   by  internal  growth  and  development   than 
by  fresh  aggressive  movements. 

In  closing  this  chapter  it  may  be  added  that  Messrs. 
Harvey  and  C.  T.  Fishe  had  left  England  in  the  good  ship 
Lammermuir  on  July  14, 1869,  while  Miss  Grace  Ciggie  (Mrs. 
Stott)  sailed  on  December  4  of  the  same  year,  she  being  the 
last  member  of  the  Mission  to  go  out  in  a  sailing-ship. 


XI 
TROUBLED  ON  EVERY  SIDE 

UP  to  the  year  1870,  the  work  had  been  steadily  enlarging 
and  extending,  in  spite  of  local  disturbances.  During  the 
New  Year,  however,  the  Mission  and  the  missionaries  were 
called  upon  to  pass  through  a  time  of  deep  sorrow  and  trial 
both  personal  and  general.  Deep  and  widespread  excite 
ment  shook  the  very  foundations  of  Chinese  society,  and 
those  who  were  living  among  the  people  at  this  time  con 
fessed  that, 

...  a  it  was  impossible  to  describe  the  alarm  and  consternation  of  the 
Chinese  when  at  first  they  believed  that  native  magicians  were  be 
witching  them  ;  nor  their  indignation  and  anger  when  they  were  told 
that  these  insidious  foes  were  the  agents  of  the  foreigners."  The 
Chinese  Government  also  "  were  puzzled  to  comprehend  the  interest 
which  the  French  Government  took  in  the  Missions,  and  its  claim, 
asserted  with  so  much  warmth,  to  exercise  a  protectorate  over  the 
converts."  1 

It  was  alleged  that  dishonest  Chinese  kidnapped  children 
for  sale  to  the  Roman  Catholic  Foundling  Hospitals,  and  in 
May  serious  trouble  in  Nanking  was  only  averted  by  a 
public  inspection  of  the  Roman  Catholic  buildings  arranged 
by  the  Viceroy.  In  June  similar  rumours  gained  credence 
at  Tientsin,  and  before  measures  could  be  adopted  to  allay 
the  popular  excitement,  the  mob  arose,  and 

.  .  .  destroyed  the  French  Missionary  buildings,  and  murdered  ten 
Sisters  of  Mercy,  the  French  Consul  and  several  other  Frenchmen, 
besides  a  party  of  Russians  supposed  to  be  French.  .  .  .  The  news 

1  Cambridge  Modern  History,  vol.  xi.  p.  813. 
68 


TROUBLED  ON  EVERY  SIDE  69 

(of  this  atrocity)  reached  Europe  six  days  after  the  declaration  of  war 
between  France  and  Prussia,  and  the  events  which  followed  rendered 
it  impossible  for  the  French  Government  to  insist  on  adequate 
reparation.1 

In  the  eyes  of  the  Chinese  the  humiliation  of  France  was 
looked  upon  as  Heaven's  incontestable  proof  that  the  charges 
made  against  the  Roman  Catholics  were  true,  and  this  fact 
immeasurably  added  to  the  difficulty  of  all  missionary 
operations. 

Owing  to  the  disturbed  state  of  the  country,  all  ladies 
and  children  had  to  be  removed  from  the  stations  at  Nanking 
and  Yangchow.  At  Nanking  even  the  Viceroy  was  assas 
sinated,  and  Mr.  Taylor  arranged  for  a  boat  to  be  in  readiness 
should  the  workers  need  at  any  time  to  withdraw.  At 
Shanghai  the  foreign  residents,  with  ships  of  war  and  some 
five  hundred  volunteers  to  protect  them,  scarcely  slept 
comfortably  for  fear  of  an  attack.  Yet  in  the  mercy  and 
loving  kindness  of  God,  all  the  missionaries  in  the  interior 
were  preserved  from  injury,  though  far  from  human  help. 
What  was  it,  then,  that  restrained  the  forces  of  disorder  in 
these  inland  stations  ? 

"  The  mighty  hand  of  God/'  wrote  Mr.  Taylor,  "  in  answer  to 
united  constant  prayer  offered  in  the  all-prevailing  Name  of  Jesus. 
And  the  same  power  kept  us  satisfied  with  Jesus,  with  His  presence, 
His  love,  His  providences." 

Though  it  is  true  that  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Meadows  had  tempo 
rarily  to  retire  from  Anking,  no  station  had  to  be  given  up, 
but,  on  the  contrary,  five  new  out-stations  were  added,  and 
the  Chinese  Christians  were  taught  in  a  new  way  to  lean  upon 
the  living  God  alone. 

Amid  all  these  outward  perils  and  alarms,  the  workers 
were  passing  through  the  deepest  waters  of  affliction.  Early 
in  the  year  it  became  evident  that  all  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor's 
children,  with  the  exception  of  the  youngest,  could  not  face 
another  summer,  and  arrangements  were  made  for  their 
early  return  to  England  with  Miss  Blatchley,  as  Mrs.  Taylor 
could  not  be  persuaded  to  leave  her  husband.  On  February 
4,  however,  ere  their  departure,  one  of  the  children,  little 

1  Cambridge  Modern  History,  vol.  xi.  p.  813. 


70  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

Samuel,  suddenly  sickened  and  died,  and  the  following 
month,  on  March  23,  the  stricken  parents  parted  with  the 
other  three,  never  again  to  meet  as  a  united  family.  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Taylor  returned  to  Chinkiang,  after  seeing  their  loved 
ones  sail,  to  find  Mrs.  Judd  at  the  point  of  death.  After 
many  anxious  days  and  weary  nights  of  watching,  this  life 
was  spared.  In  June  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Rudland  were  bereaved 
of  a  dear  child,  and  a  brief  note  written  by  Mrs.  Taylor  to 
Mrs.  Rudland  upon  this  occasion — one  of  the  last  penned 
by  her  to  whom  the  Mission  owed  so  much — may  be  quoted 
here  both  as  a  revelation  of  her  character  and  as  a  comfort 
possibly  to  many  others  who  have  suffered,  or  may  suffer, 
a  like  sorrow. 

July  15,  1870. 

MY  DEAR  MARY — I  cannot  write  much ;  but  I  send  a  line  to  tell 
you  that  our  hearts  grieve  and  our  eyes  weep  with  you.  May  you  be 
able  to  realise  your  precious  little  one  as  safely  nestling  in  Jesu's  own 
arms,  for  that  more  than  anything  will  help  to  assuage  the  bitterness 
of  the  painful  separation. 

"  Them  which  sleep  in  Jesus  will  God  bring  with  Him."  They 
will  yet  be  restored  to  us  ;  they  will  be  ours  again — ours  for  ever. 
And  then  we  shall  be  able  to  understand  why  they  were  separated  from 
us  here ;  then;  shall  we  be  able  to  say  from  the  very  depths  of  our 
hearts,  "  Our  Jesus  has  done  all  things  well."  Meanwhile,  let  us 
believe  this.  By  His  grace  we  will  not  doubt  either  His  wisdom  or 
His  love.  Let  us  cling  to  Him  when  His  waves  and  His  billows  go  over 
us.  Accept  much  love  and  sympathy  from  us  to  you  both,  and 
believe  me — Yours  very  affectionately,  MARIA  J.  TAYLOR. 

On  the  night  of  July  5,  Mrs.  Taylor  herself  was  seized 
with  cholera,  on  the  7th,  she  gave  birth  to  a  son,  whom  she 
named  Noel.  On  the  2oth,  this  precious  little  one  breathed 
his  last,  and  three  days  later  Mrs.  Taylor  also  slept  in  Jesus. 
Mr.  Taylor,  who  had  been  greatly  blessed  in  soul  some  months 
before,  was  wonderfully  upheld  in  this  time  of  deep  affliction. 
Concerning  this  time  of  sorrow  he  wrote  : 

I  scarcely  knew  whether  she  or  I  was  the  more  blessed,  so  real,  so 
constant,  so  satisfying  was  His  presence,  so  deep  my  delight  in  the 
consciousness  that  His  Will  was  being  done,  and  that  that  Will,  which 
was  utterly  crushing  me,  was  good,  was  wise,  was  best. 

For  some  months  after  this  Mr.  Taylor  was  seriously 


TROUBLED  ON  EVERY  SIDE  71 

prostrated  through  physical  weakness  and  exhaustion,  and 
on  December  i,  1870,  he  sent  out  a  printed  circular  letter  to 
all  members  of  the  Mission  stating  that, 

.  .  .  Mr.  C.  T.  Fishe  has  kindly  consented  to  act,  D.V.,  as  Secretary  to 
the  Mission  (in  China)  for  the  present,  so  as  to  lighten  the  labour  which 
has  hitherto  devolved  upon  me,  and  which  has  now  increased  through 
the  departure  of  my  beloved  wife. 

So  seriously  was  Mr.  Taylor's  health  impaired  that  he  was 
uncertain  whether  his  own  life  would  be  spared,  and  in  some 
of  his  letters  written  during  the  spring  of  the  following  year, 
he  gave  instructions  in  regard  to  his  children's  future,  should 
he  be  taken  from  them.  Mrs.  Crombie's  health  also  gave 
way,  and  Mr.  Duncan  was  laid  low  with  inflammation  of  the 
lungs,  which  for  a  time  threatened  to  be  fatal. 

"  Thus,"  wrote  Mr.  Taylor,  "  wave  after  wave  of  trial  rolled  over 
us  ;  but  at  the  end  of  the  year  some  of  us  were  constrained  to  confess 
that  we  had  learned  more  of  the  loving  kindness  of  the  Lord  than  in 
any  previous  year  of  our  lives." 

This  year,  so  memorable  for  its  trials  and  alarms,  was  not 
wholly  without  some  visible  signs  of  progress.  Mr.  Stevenson, 
who  had  transferred  the  care  of  Siaoshan  to  Mr.  McCarthy, 
was  enabled  to  open  the  station  at  Sinchanghsien,  a  city 
situated  some  fifty  miles  south  of  Shaohingfu.  Wang  Lae- 
djun,  the  Chinese  pastor  of  Hangchow,  at  his  own  expense 
opened  a  chapel  at  Lihdzo  near  Ningpo.  Mr.  McCarthy's 
colporteurs  and  evangelists  commenced  work  in  several 
new  centres,  one  of  these  being  the  district  city  of  Lanchi, 
about  136  miles  S.W.  of  Hangchow.  Mr.  Williamson,  who 
had  been  transferred  to  Chekiang,  was  appointed  pastor  of 
Fenghwa  upon  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Crombie's  leaving  for  furlough, 
and  he  opened  an  out-station  in  the  district  of  Ong-zih,  while 
the  church  at  Ong-zih  opened  another  at  Dzao-tseng,  three 
miles  farther  west. 

Nor  must  we  overlook  the  various  evangelical  tours  made 
during  this  year.  After  the  trouble  in  Nanking  had  some 
what  subsided,  Mr.  Harvey  made  a  tour  north  of  the  river, 
visiting  the  city  of  Luho  and  a  number  of  towns  and  hamlets. 
Mr.  McCarthy  safely  prosecuted  a  journey  through  the 


72  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

district  N.E.  of  Hangchow ;  Mr.  E.  Fishe,  in  company 
with  Wang  Lae-djun,  set  out  from  Taichowfu  and  visited 
Sienkii ;  while  Mr.  Rudland,  who  in  August  had  volunteered 
to  take  charge  of  the  work  in  Taichowfu — in  which  city  he 
continued  to  labour  till  his  death  in  1912 — undertook  a 
journey  southward  as  far  as  Taiping. 


XII 
FAINT  YET  PURSUING 

THOUGH  the  storms  of  1870  had  in  large  measure  spent 
themselves,  the  year  1871,  upon  the  brief  review  of  which 
we  now  enter,  had  sufficient  trials  of  its  own.  The  anxiety 
and  unrest  which  followed  the  Tientsin  massacre  had  not 
wholly  passed  away  in  China  ;  and  the  Franco-Prussian 
war  had  unfavourable  effects  upon  the  income  of  the  Mission 
at  home.  When  to  these  anxieties  were  added  the  precarious 
state  of  Mr.  Taylor's  health,  the  failing  strength  of  Mr. 
Berger,  and  threatened  restrictions  to  missionary  liberty, 
it  will  be  recognized  that  the  Mission  was  indeed  much  cast 
upon  God. 

A  year  before  the  Tientsin  massacre,  the  Chinese  Govern 
ment  had  proposed  regulations  for  the  control  of  Missions, 
and  for  the  placing  of  missionaries  under  Chinese  jurisdiction. 
Early  in  1871  they  again  returned  to  this  subject  and  sub 
mitted  definite  proposals.  In  the  Circular  of  the  Chinese 
Government,  which  dealt  with  this  subject,  there  were  eight 
Articles. 

Article  No.  i  suggested  the  abolition  of  orphanages,  which  would 
have  injuriously  affected  the  Mission's  boarding-schools,  though,  at 
that  time,  Protestant  Missions  had  no  orphanages. 

Article  2  read  :  "  Women  ought  no  longer  to  enter  the  Churches  ; 
nor  should  Sisters  of  Charity  live  in  China  to  teach  religion."  Though 
Protestant  Missions  had  no  Sisters  of  Charity,  this  clause  would  in  all 
probability  have  prohibited  women  missionaries  in  general. 

Article  3  prohibited  missionaries  taking  the  advantage  of  extra 
territoriality. 

Article  7  demanded  that  "  when  the  missionaries  visit  a  great 

73 


74  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

Mandarin,  they  must  observe  the  same  ceremonies  as  those  exacted 
from  the  literates."  These  ceremonies  would  often  include  kneeling 
on  both  knees,  prostration  on  the  ground;  and  knocking  the  forehead 
on  the  floor. 

The  nature  of  this  document  showed  that  it  was 
obviously  aimed  at  Roman  Catholic  Missions,  but  it  in 
evitably  hampered  and  endangered  Protestant  Missions 
also.  Ultimately,  to  quote  Sir  Ernest  Satow, 

.  .  .  the  Protestant  Powers  replied  that  the  abuses  complained  of  did 
not  concern  them ;  while  the  French  Government  rejected  the  whole 
of  the  proposals  as  inadmissible.1 

It  was  naturally  an  anxious  time  for  the  Mission  while 
these  official  negotiations  were  proceeding.  On  the  one 
hand,  the  staff  of  workers  was  barely  able  to  hold  the 
stations  already  opened  ;  and  on  the  other,  these  proposals 
threatened  to  make  the  missionaries'  position  practically 
untenable.  The  very  growth  and  expansion  of  the  work 
was  taxing  to  the  utmost  the  limited  number  of  workers, 
for  as  all  the  stations  north  of  Hangchow  were  compara 
tively  new,  there  were  no  Chinese  Christians  of  long  standing 
who  could  be  relied  upon  as  leaders  ;  and  none  could  be 
transferred  as  helpers  from  Chekiang  on  account  of  the 
difference  of  language.  For  this  cause  the  work  at  Tsing- 
kiangpu  suffered  not  a  little,  as  Mr.  Reid  had  had  to  leave 
on  account  of  health.  At  Yangchow  there  was  a  narrow 
escape  from  another  riot,  stirred  up  by  a  military  mandarin, 
named  Ch'un,  who  had  been  the  leader  in  the  Tientsin 
massacre  as  well  as  in  the  previous  Yangchow  riot.  This 
man,  in  conjunction  with  another  high  official  named  Li, 
who  was  landlord  of  the  Mission  premises,  did  his  best  to 
foment  another  outbreak.  In  this,  in  God's  providence, 
they  were  unsuccessful,  for,  as  already  mentioned,  the 
Governor  of  Chinkiang  personally  purchased  the  property 
to  remove  any  ground  of  complaint,  and  the  people  of 
Yangchow  had  themselves  become  more  friendly.  This 
change  in  the  attitude  of  the  inhabitants  of  Yangchow 

1  Cambridge  Modern  History ',  vol.  xi.  p.  814. 


FAINT  YET  PURSUING  75 

showed  how  much  their  esteem  and  confidence  had  been 
gained  since  1868. 

The  Yangchow  troubles,  however,  were  not  wholly  at  an 
end,  for  later  in  the  year  Mr.  Berger  received  a  despatch 
from  Lord  Granville,  urging  the  Mission  to  abandon  the  city. 
In  reply  a  full  statement  was  sent  to  him,  stating  the  arrange 
ments  made  for  the  carrying  on  of  the  work  in  that  centre. 
This  was  evidently  considered  satisfactory,  for  nothing 
further  was  heard  on  the  subject. 

About  this  time  the  prospective  return  of  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Meadows  to  England  for  furlough,  and  other  circumstances, 
made  necessary  the  rearrangement  of  all  the  work  in  the 
northern  Stations.  Mr.  Duncan  undertook  to  devote  his 
time  between  Nanking  and  Anking,  so  that  the  needy 
province  of  Anhwei  might  not  be  wholly  deprived  of  a  Gospel 
messenger.  Mr.  C.  T.  Fishe  agreed  to  reside  at  Yangchow 
and  to  superintend  Tsingkiangpu  from  that  centre  ;  while 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Judd  took  charge  of  the  work  at  Chinkiang. 

The  story  of  the  Girls'  School,  commenced  this  year  at 
this  last-mentioned  place,  deserves  special  mention.  During 
the  troublous  times  of  1870,  it  had  been  necessary  for  the 
lady  workers  to  retire  from  the  more  exposed  positions  to 
Chinkiang.  And  the  missionary  proposals  of  the  Chinese 
Government,  already  mentioned,  urged  the  removal  of  lady 
workers  from  China  altogether.  For  these  and  other 
reasons  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  had  thought  it  well  to  try  the 
effect  of  a  separate  work  for  women  conducted  exclusively 
by  women,  and  Chinkiang  seemed  a  favourable  spot  for  such 
an  experiment. 

As  this  subject  had  been  one  of  the  last  about  which  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Taylor  had  consulted  and  prayed  together,  it  was 
naturally  a  sacred  project. 

"  At  this  juncture/'  wrote  Mr.  Taylor,  "  my  precious  wife  was 
removed  and  I  was  left  alone.  I  was  no  longer  able  to  unite  with  her 
in  prayer,  as  for  the  last  twelve  and  a  half  years  I  had  done,  and  to 
plead  the  promise  that  whatsoever  two  should  agree  to  ask  on  earth 
should  be  done  for  them  of  our  Father  who  is  in  Heaven.  I  felt  the 
privation  much  ;  and  had  to  ask  Him  who  was  comforting  me  with 
His  own  sweet  presence,  who  often  said  to  me, — '  My  presence  shall 


76  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

go  with  thee,  and  I  will  give  thee  rest ' — to  be  my  Partner  in  prayer 
too  as  well  as  my  High  Priestly  Intercessor.  And  I  felt  that  my  faith 
needed  strengthening,  and  therefore  asked  God  to  give  me  funds  to 
build  suitable  premises  ;  carefully  avoiding  all  mention  of  my  desire 
either  to  my  home  correspondents,  or  for  the  time  being,  to  my  fellow- 
workers  in  China,  that  the  response  might  be  the  more  manifestly  His." 

It  was  not  long  after  this  ere  Mr.  Taylor  received  from  a 
relative  of  his  own  a  gift  of  £100  for  his  private  use,  this 
being  the  largest  private  gift  he  had  up  to  that  time  received. 
He  at  once  commenced  to  look  out  for  a  suitable  site,  and 
in  due  course  land  was  purchased  in  a  good  position  not  far 
from  the  river,  and  facing  the  hills.  The  deeds  were  duly 
signed  and  registered.  Then  came  another  gift  of  £100  from 
another  friend,  also  for  his  private  use,  and  the  building  was 
proceeded  with.  By  means  of  these  two  gifts  mentioned 
and  a  number  of  smaller  contributions,  which  came  in  as 
they  had  never  done  before  and  which  only  ceased  when 
there  was  sufficient,  the  buildings  were  erected,  and  before 
Mr.  Taylor  left  China  in  the  autumn,  he  had  the  joy  of  seeing 
Miss  Desgraz  and  Miss  Bowyer  comfortably  settled  in  and 
their  work  fairly  commenced. 

By  this  time,  as  we  have  seen,  Mr.  Cardwell  in  Kiangsi 
felt  sufficiently  advanced  in  the  language  to  attempt  some 
extensive  journeys.  In  May  he  started  from  Kiukiang  by 
boat,  travelling  across  the  Lake  selling  books  and  preaching 
at  such  centres  as  Takutang,  Nankangfu,  and  proceeding 
on  to  the  capital,  thence  to  Fuchow,  and  back  home  via 
Jaochow.  During  this  journey,  which  occupied  thirty 
days,  he  visited  five  walled  cities,  six  towns,  and  fourteen 
villages,  and  sold  some  two  or  three  thousand  Scriptures 
and  other  books.  Though  stoned  at  some  places  he  was 
mercifully  protected  from  harm. 

In  north  Kiangsu,  Mr.  Harvey  made  two  long  journeys, 
the  first  to  and  around  Tsingkiangpu,  and  the  second  almost 
to  the  borders  of  the  province  of  Shantung,  in  order  to  find, 
if  possible,  at  Mr.  Taylor's  request,  some  place  suitable  for  a 
seaside  resort.  The  locality,  however,  was  found  unsuitable 
for  this  purpose.  Mr.  Duncan,  either  alone  or  accompanied 
by  Mr.  Harvey,  itinerated  in  Anhwei,  both  north  and  south 


FAINT  YET  PURSUING  77 

of  the  Yangtze,  and  together  they  finally  travelled  from 
Wuhu  through  the  southern  portion  of  the  province,  visiting 
Ningkwofu  and  Hweichow,  and  concluding  their  journey 
at  Hangchow  in  Chekiang.  Mr.  Reid  also  engaged  in 
itineration  work  in  the  vicinity  of  the  great  Lake  ;  Mr. 
M'Carthy's  helpers  worked  the  country  around  Hangchow, 
and  Mr.  Jackson  from  Wenchow.  On  all  these  journeys 
the  Scriptures  were  extensively  scattered  and  the  Gospel 
freely  preached. 

While  the  work  was  thus  progressing  in  China  the  needs 
of  the  work  in  England  made  it  desirable  for  Mr.  Taylor  to 
visit  the  homeland,  and  soon  health  made  such  a  change 
equally  essential.  Local  claims  in  China,  however,  and  the 
fact  that  Mr.  Taylor  was  the  only  medical  man  in  the 
Mission,  effectually  prevented  him  leaving  the  field  until 
August,  when,  in  company  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Meadows  and 
Miss  Faulding,  who  had  been  detained  in  Shanghai  through 
sickness  and  other  causes,  he  started  once  more  for  England, 
which  was  safely  reached  on  September  26. 

Of  the  problems  which  confronted  him  on  reaching  the 
home  country  once  again,  we  must  defer  writing  until  the 
next  chapter.  This  brief  record  of  1871  may,  however,  be 
closed  by  summarizing  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor's  long  letter  to 
the  friends  of  the  Mission,  addressed  from  6  Pyrland  Road, 
at  the  close  of  the  year. 

In  his  review  of  the  preceding  six  or  seven  years  Mr. 
Taylor  first  calls  to  mind  the  Mission's  journeying  mercies. 
In  all  forty-seven  persons,  including  children,  had  sailed  from 
England  to  China  by  the  Cape  route  ;  thirteen  had  returned 
via  the  Suez  Canal,  and  in  these  and  all  the  other  journeyings 
in  China  there  had  been  no  loss  of  life  or  permanent  injury  to 
old  or  young.  In  the  matter  of  health,  two  of  the  adults 
and  two  of  the  children,  referred  to  above,  had  been  gathered 
Home,  as  well  as  several  little  ones  born  in  China.  Bearing 
in  mind  that  the  work  was  new  and  involved  a  great  ex 
penditure  of  energy  and  strength,  it  was  felt  that  here  there 
was  much  cause  for  thanksgiving. 

In  China  not  a  few  of  the  workers  had  mastered  the 
language  sufficiently  well  to  preach  freely  and  intelligently, 


78  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

and  when  Mr.  Taylor  had  left  the  field  there  had  been  twenty- 
five  adults  with  eighteen  children  residing  in  ten  different 
stations.  God  had  given  these  workers  open  doors,  there 
being  thirteen  leading  stations  in  which  missionaries  were  or 
had  been  residing,  these  stations  being,  roughly  speaking,  on 
an  average  a  hundred  English  miles  apart.  In  addition  to 
the  foreign  workers  the  Mission  had  forty -five  Chinese 
helpers,  some  of  whom  were  labouring  in  out-stations  a 
hundred  miles  distant  from  the  central  station  ;  and,  lastly, 
the  Lord  had  not  left  or  failed  His  servants  m  any  time 
of  danger,  trial,  perplexity  or  bereavement.  In  brief,  all 
things  necessary,  whether  spiritual  or  temporal,  had  been 
supplied. 

"  Hungry  and  thirsty/'  wrote  Mr.  Taylor,  "  our  souls  have  some 
times  almost  fainted  within  us,  and  weary,  oh  !  so  weary,  we  have  felt . 
But  when  Jesus  has  spoken  to  our  hearts  His  invitation — '  If  any 
man  thirst  let  him  come  unto  Me  and  drink/ — when  He  has  enabled 
us  to  ask  Him  for  and  then  given  us,  His  '  living  water/ — He  has  made 
us  so  unspeakably  happy  in  His  presence,  and  has  given  us  such  rest, 
joy  and  strength  in  Himself,  as  no  words  can  express,  and  as  some 
of  us  never  expected  to  realise  down  here. 

The  love  of  Jesus  what  it  is, 
None  but  His  loved  ones  know  ! 

"  Did  time  and  space  admit  of  it,  we  might  enlarge  on  this  theme 
indefinitely,  for  who  can  exhaust  it — the  love  of  Jesus  ? — who  can  utter 
all  His  praise  ?  " 


Giiorp  I. 


1.  W.  THOMAS  BKRGER.          2.  MRS.  HUDSOX  TAYLOR  (nee  DYER). 
4.  JAMES  J.  MEADOWS.  f>.  J.  HUDSON  TAYLOH. 

7.  EMILY  BLATCHLKY.  8.  BENJAMIN  BUOOMHALL. 

Biographical  details  can  be  ascertained  by  use  of  Indc.i; 


3.  THEODORE  HOWARD. 
(5.  JOHN  W.  STEVENSON. 
9.  MRS.  B.  BROOM  HA  i. L. 


Between  pp.  78-79. 


1.  (JEORGE  STOTT. 
4.   WILLIAM  COOPER. 
7.  W.  D.  RUDLAND. 


GROUP  II. 

2.    A.    W.    DOUTHWAITE. 

;..  D.  K.  HOSTK. 
8.  W.  L.  ELUSION. 


3.    R.   H.  A.  SCHOFIELD. 
6.  W.  W.  CASSELS. 
9.  CHARLES  T.  FISHE. 


Biographical  details  can  be  ascertained  by  use  of  Index,  p.  375. 


Between  pp.  78-70. 


XIII 

THE  HOME  DEPARTMENT 

WHEN  Mr.  Taylor  reached  England,  after  an  absence  of  five 
and  a  half  years  in  China,  he  was  immediately  confronted 
with  the  serious  problems  of  the  Home  Department.  For 
a  year  or  two  Mr.  Berger's  health  had  been  failing,  but  the 
crisis  in  China  had  prevented  Mr.  Taylor  returning  sooner, 
and  now  that  he  had  come,  he  was  himself  much  needing 
rest  and  refreshment.  But  the  claims  of  the  work  had  to 
be  faced,  and  so  we  find  Mr.  Taylor,  shortly  after  his  marriage 
to  Miss  Faulding  on  November  28,  writing  from  6  Pyrland 
Road,  as  follows  : 

Many  of  you  are  aware  that  the  labours  of  the  home  department, 
in  which  Mr.  Berger  has  been  so  kindly  engaged,  have  been  onerous. 
While  his  sympathy  with  the  work  is  undiminished,  his  strength  is 
not  equal  to  the  continuous  and  ever  increasing  strain.  How  best  to 
afford  him  relief  demands  our  grave  consideration. 

This  important  subject  now  occupied  a  large  place  in 
Mr.  Taylor's  thoughts  and  prayers,  for  the  issues  involved 
were  by  no  means  small.  Mr.  Berger  had  been  the  nursing 
father  and  Mrs.  Berger  the  nursing  mother  of  the  Mission 
from  its  infancy ;  in  fact  their  sympathy  and  help  dated 
back  to  the  beginning  of  Mr.  Taylor's  own  career  in  China. 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Berger  had  ever  acted  together,  being  moved 
by  an  interest  fully  shared  by  both.  What  these  beloved 
friends  did  for  the  work  in  its  early  and  critical  years  can 
never  be  adequately  told.  In  their  beautiful  home  at  East 
Grinstead  the  missionaries  had  been  welcomed  and  enter 
tained  with  a  warmth  of  love  and  kindness  never  to  be 

79 


8o  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

forgotten,  and  while  giving  unreservedly  of  their  time  and 
wealth  for  the  furtherance  of  the  work,  Mr.  Berger  had 
by  his  able  and  devoted  administration  at  home  main 
tained  and  developed  the  deepest  interest  of  the  friends 
of  the  Mission.  If  any  one  would  know  how  faithfully 
and  lovingly  this  work  was  done,  they  must  refer  to  the 
Occasional  Papers,  in  which  magazine,  for  a  period  extend 
ing  from  May  1866  to  March  1872,  he  had  by  his  model 
letters  and  reports  given  publicity  to  the  progress  of 
the  work  in  China.  "  We  could  wish,"  wrote  one  who 
was  no  mean  judge  of  literary  matters,  "  for  no  better 
memorial  of  Mr.  Berger  than  those  twenty-eight  letters 
printed  just  as  they  are."  The  following  extract  from 
one  dated  May  1869,  will  show  the  spirit  in  which  this 
correspondence  and  editorial  work  was  conducted : 

We  are  fuller  of  hope  and  expectation  than  ever.  In  so  saying,  I 
trust  I  am  carrying  along  with  me  the  friends  and  supporters  of  this 
Mission  ;  for  if  one  object  is  more  prominent  than  another  in  my  mind, 
in  relation  to  you,  dear  friends,  it  is  so  to  bring  before  you,  from  time 
to  time,  not  the  Mission  in  the  abstract  merely,  but  every  incident  of 
importance  and  interest  in  relation  to  the  missionaries — their  sorrows 
and  joys,  their  encouragements  and  discouragements — that  you  may 
individually  realize  a  living  interest  in  them,  and  be  constrained  to 
labour  in  prayer  to  God  for  His  blessing  to  rest  continually  upon  them 
and  their  work.  Then  will  you  become  one  with  them  in  sowing  the 
seed  of  the  kingdom,  and  in  due  time  share  with  them  the  certain 
harvest.1 

The  loss  of  such  a  Home  Director,  who  had  for  so  many 
years  been  united  in  heart  and  soul  with  Mr.  Taylor — for 
his  friendship  dated  back  nearly  twenty  years — was  a  serious 
matter,  as  well  as  a  personal  sorrow.  Fortunately,  Mr. 
Berger  was  enabled  to  hold  on  until  Mr.  Taylor's  health  was 
somewhat  restored,  and  then,  on  March  19,  1872,  he  penned 
his  last  letter  as  Home  Director  of  the  Mission. 

1  Dr.  Henry  Venn,  the  Secretary  of  the  Church  Missionary  Society, 
said  in  regard  to  the  preparation  of  the  Annual  Report  :  "I  feel  it  to  be 
a  high  privilege,  as  well  as  responsibility,  thus  to  stand  between  the  Church 
abroad  and  the  Church  at  home,  and  bring  forward  a  report  of  the  Lord's 
work."  His  biographer  adds  :  "He  often  said  that  he  considered  the 
preparation  of  an  honest  and  faithful  report  as  one  of  the  most  solemn 
duties  committed  to  him  "  (Life  of  Henry  Venn,  p.  97). 


THE  HOME  DEPARTMENT  81 

"  It  is  difficult,"  he  wrote,  "  to  describe  the  feelings  with  which  I 
commence  this  letter :  were  it  compatible  with  duty  I  would  defer 
writing  indefinitely  ;  but  this  may  not  be.  You  will  gather  from  the 
notice  on  the  face  of  this  number  that  the  management  of  the  home 
department  of  this  Mission  is  about  to  pass  into  other  hands.  Failing 
strength  on  the  part  of  myself  and  dear  wife,  combined  with  increasing 
claims,  unmistakably  indicate  the  necessity  of  this  step.  My  sym 
pathies  for  the  work  are  as  warm  as  ever ;  and  we  fain  hope  that  our 
future  efforts  on  China's  behalf,  though  they  should  be  of  a  less  active 
nature,  may  not  prove  the  less  serviceable." 

Upon  the  same  day  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  for  the  same  issue 
of  Occasional  Papers  : 

In  the  first  number  of  the  Occasional  Papers  published  on  March  12, 
1866,  I  was  permitted  by  Mr.  Berger  to  request  that  as  far  as  possible 
letters  and  communications  should,  after  April  30,  be  addressed  to  him, 
he  having  kindly  agreed  to  carry  on  the  home  department  of  the  work 
after  our  leaving  England.  Nearly  six  years  have  since  elapsed, 
during  the  whole  of  which  time  he  has  continued  to  carry  on  this  part 
of  the  work.  The  labour  this  service  has  involved  has  been  very  great, 
and  its  value  to  the  Mission  beyond  estimation.  Our  fellowship 
together  has  been,  too,  a  source  of  unmixed  and  uninterrupted  joy ; 
and  you  will  judge  of  the  feeling  of  regret  with  which  we  have,  in  the 
past  two  years,  seen  unmistakable  evidence  that  the  same  kind  and 
measure  of  co-operation  was  becoming  incompatible  with  Mr.  Berger's 
failing  health  and  strength.  .  .  .  With  the  promised  assistance  of  one 
or  two  kind  friends,  I  hope  to  be  able  to  carry  on  the  home  work 
myself  for  a  few  months,  until  more  permanent  arrangements  can 
be  made. 

In  September  Messrs.  R.  H.  Hill  and  Henry  Soltau  under 
took  the  posts  of  Honorary  Secretaries  to  the  Mission,  a 
Council  of  Management  of  the  Home  Department  was 
appointed,  and  a  number  of  gentlemen  in  different  parts  of 
the  country  agreed  to  act  as  Referees.  The  names  of  those 
who  belonged  to  this  first  Home  Council  were — Messrs. 
Theodore  Howard,  John  Challice,  William  Hall,  George 
Soltau  and  Joseph  Weatherley ;  and  among  those  who  agreed 
to  act  as  Referees  we  may  perhaps  mention  Dr.  Barnardo, 
Robert  Chapman,  Dr.  Grattan  Guinness,  George  Miiller, 
Rev.  William  Pennefather  and  Lord  Radstock. 

The  Council  met  for  the  first  time  on  Friday,  October  4, 
1872,  when,  after  the  meeting  had  been  constituted,  the 

G 


82  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

accounts  and  affairs  of  the  Home  Department  were  handed 
over  to  the  Council  and  Secretaries.  They  met  again  the 
following  day,  and  on  the  following  Tuesday,  October  8,  so 
as  to  learn  as  fully  as  possible  the  mind  of  Mr.  Taylor  in 
regard  to  the  conduct  of  the  work  before  he  sailed,  for  on 
Wednesday,  October  9,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor,  accompanied 
by  Miss  Turner,  bade  farewell  to  their  friends  at  Charing 
Cross— leaving  behind  their  four  children  under  the  care  of 
Miss  Blatchley — and  set  forth  once  again,  travelling  by  the 
French  Mail,  via  Marseilles,  for  China. 

At  a  time  when  so  many  are  discussing  the  subject  of  the 
missionary  motive,  it  may  not  be  inopportune  to  quote  a 
few  lines  from  Mr.  Taylor's  farewell  letter,  written  on  board 
the  M.M.  steamship  Tigre. 

"  There  is  one  part  of  the  Home  work/'  he  wrote,,  "  so  momentous 
in  its  bearings  as  to  call  for  special  remark — that  relating  to  the  selection 
and  training  of  candidates.  Suitable  men,  fitted  for  and  called  to  the 
work,  are  the  great  requirements  of  all  missionary  operations.  There 
are  many  others,  but  none  so  indispensable  as  this." 

After  some  detailed  reference  to  the  difficulties  which 
have  to  be  encountered  in  the  field,  he  proceeds  : 

One  thing,  and  one  only,  will  carry  men  through  all,  and  make  and 
keep  them  successful :  the  love  of  Christ  constraining  and  sustaining 
is  the  only  adequate  power.  Not  our  love  to  Christ ;  nor  perhaps 
even  Christ's  love  to  us  personally ;  rather  His  love  to  poor  ruined 
sinners  in  us.  Many  waters  will  not  quench  that  love,  nor  the  floods 
drown  it.  That  love  will  seek  the  wandering  sheep  until  they  are 
found  ;  and  if  when  found  they  are  but  wayward,  wandering  sheep 
still,  will  yet  love  and  care  for  them.  Oh,  beloved  friends,  pray  that 
this  love  may  be  in  us,  abiding  in  us,  dwelling  richly  in  us  all  who  are 
already  in  the  field,  and  in  those  who  join  us.  But  this  love  will  not 
be  put  into  any  one  by  a  journey  to  China ;  if  it  be  not  there  before, 
the  change  from  a  more  to  a  less  favourable  sphere  of  labour  is  not 
likely  to  produce  or  develop  it.  Our  aim,  therefore,  must  be  to 
ascertain  as  far  as  possible  whether  it  exists,  and  is  combined  with  the 
needful  grace,  ability,  perseverance  and  tact,  and  is  operative  here  in 
England  in  those  who  desire  to  go  out  to  China. 

After  entering  into  other  details  concerning  the  work, 
he  again  asks  prayer  for  the  true  missionary  spirit : 


THE  HOME  DEPARTMENT  83 

"  It  is  comparatively  easy/'  he  wrote,  "  to  take  a  low  place  when 
others  are  ready  to  exalt  you,  or  to  appreciate  the  spirit  which  leads  to 
it.  But  when  those  you  feel  to  be  far  beneath  you — in  mind,  in 
civilization,  in  almost  everything — treat  you  as  all  but  savages,  call 
you  barbarians,  foreign  devils,  etc.,  and  try  to  provoke  you  in  many 
ways,  imputing  the  vilest  and  basest  of  motives  to  your  most  self- 
denying  and  persevering  efforts  for  their  good ;  and  when,  too,  you 
know  that  you  only  need  to  take  the  upper  hand,  to  claim  to  be  and 
act  as  foreigners — to  make  them  too  much  afraid  to  express  what  they 
may  think  or  feel,  there  is  a  great  temptation  to  do  so.  None  who 
have  not  been  placed  in  these  circumstances  know  how  much  we  need 
your  prayers  and  God's  help  to  glorify  Him  and  walk  consistently  in 
Him." 

Though  conditions  may  have  greatly  changed  in  China 
since  these  words  were  penned,  may  we  not  add  that  only  so 
long  as  such  a  spirit  continues  to  animate  the  members  of  the 
Mission,  need  there  be  no  fear  that  God's  blessing  in  things 
temporal  and  spiritual  will  be  withheld.  To  show  how  God 
did  bless  and  supply  the  financial  needs  of  the  work  during 
the  years  when  Mr.  Berger  held  the  ropes  at  home,  the 
following  extracts  from  his  letters  are  given. 

Writing  on  February  15,  1868,  he  said  : 

Hitherto  we  have  lacked  nothing  for  carrying  on  this  Mission,  the 
Lord  having  sent  in  all  needed  supplies.  To  Him  and  His  people  we 
tender  our  warmest  thanks.  The  gift  of  an  anonymous  donor  came 
so  opportunely,  that  I  notice  it  for  his  or  her  joy,  and  that  of  our 
readers.  On  January  i,  1868,  our  funds  were  getting  low,  and  we 
were  led  to  ask  God  to  remember  our  need.  This  was  at  one  P.M.  ;  at 
four  the  same  afternoon  £100  reached  us  anonymously,  refreshing 
and  encouraging  us — oh  !  so  deeply.  By  the  4th,  £395  had  come 
in.  "  All  things  are  possible  to  him  that  believeth." 

On  August  29  of  the  same  year,  he  wrote  again  : 

The  number  of  labourers  already  in  the  field  connected  with  this 
Mission,  as  you  will  have  seen  from  the  last  Paper,  No.  13,  is  now 
considerable.  The  amount  required  to  supply  their  need,  and  that 
of  the  home  department,  will  probably  not  be  less  than  £100  per  week, 
or  £5200  for  the  current  year.  And  in  the  event  of  more  labourers 
going  forth  or  being  added  in  China,  the  amount  will  augment  accord 
ingly.  The  questions  naturally  arise — Shall  I  continue  sending  out 
missionaries  if  in  all  respects  suitable  ?  Will  the  needed  funds  be 
supplied  ?  and,  Shall  I  be  overpowering  dear  Mr.  Taylor  ?  Then 


84  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

China's  FOUR  HUNDRED  MILLIONS,  lying  in  moral  darkness  and  death, 
rise  up  before  me,  and  seem  to  cry  with  a  loud  voice — "  Come  over 
and  help  us  !  "  And  I  feel  I  must  roll  the  burden  upon  Him  who 
alone  is  able  to  bear  it.  I  would  now  ask  you,  my  dear  friends,  to 
share  this  responsibility  and  service  with  me,  by  giving  yourselves 
to  prayer,  and  seeking  in  every  way  in  your  power  to  make  known  the 
deep  need  of  this  poor  people,  so  that  labourers  may  be  thrust  out  into 
this  vast  field,  connected  with  our  Mission,  or  with  others,  as  it  may 
please  our  Heavenly  Father,  Will  you  also  seek  from  God  that  wisdom 
and  grace  may  be  abundantly  supplied  to  those  in  the  field,  and  to 
ourselves  at  home,  so  that  we  all  may  adorn  the  doctrine  of  God  our 
Saviour  in  all  things.  My  present  mind  is  to  wait  quietly  upon  Him, 
believing  that  He  will  guide  and  provide,  for  it  is  His  work  ;  and  if  He 
should  see  fit  to  send  out  no  more  through  our  instrumentality,  we 
shall,  I  trust,  be  content. 

By  God's  help,  I  hope  never  to  go  into  debt,  and  only  to  enlarge 
the  work  as  He  may  put  it  into  the  hearts  of  His  people  to  sympathise 
and  send  in  the  needful  supplies  from  time  to  time.  Towards  the  end 
of  last  month,  the  balance  in  my  hands  was  reduced  to  about  £97.  I 
greatly  desired  to  send  £300  to  Mr.  Taylor  on  the  Mission  account, 
fearing  he  might  be  in  need ;  whereupon  we  made  our  prayer  unto 
God,  were  kept  calm  and  enabled  to  believe  that  He  would  help  us  in 
due  time.  On  August  i,  over  £220  was  sent  in  ;  on  the  i3th  over 
£500,  and  in  all  from  the  ist  to  the  24th,  over  £950,  as  though  our 
Heavenly  Father  would  say  to  us  :  "  If  thou  canst  believe,  all  things 
are  possible  to  him  that  believeth."  We  were  not  seeking  our  own, 
but  His  glory ;  and  hence  we  were  not  made  ashamed.  I  mention 
these  facts  that  you  may  joy  with  us,  even  as  you  so  lovingly  share  our 
burdens. 

Again  on  May  26,  1869,  the  third  anniversary  of  the 
sailing  of  the  Lammermuir  party,  he  wrote  : 

Once  or  twice  in  the  past  year,  the  amount  in  my  hands  has  been 
as  low  as  £20 ;  yet,  to  the  praise  of  God's  grace,  I  may  say  I  have 
never  required  to  send  money  to  China  without  being  able  to  do  so, 
and  even  the  amount  which  I  desired.  Thus  tenderly  is  He  teaching 
us  to  put  our  trust  in  Him. 

The  last  extract  that  space  will  permit  is  from  a  letter 
dated  March  5,  1870.  It  is  as  follows  : 

During  part  of  last  year  the  funds  were  getting  very  low,  and  we 
were  led  to  spread  the  matter  again  and  again  before  our  Heavenly 
Father,  who  made  all  grace  abound  towards  us,  so  that  in  the  month 


THE  HOME  DEPARTMENT  85 

of  January  we  received  fully  £1000,  consisting  of  donations,  interest, 
and  proceeds  of  sale  of  books.    To  Him  be  the  praise. 

No  words  need  be  added  to  emphasise  what  the  loss  of 
such  a  Home  Director  meant  to  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor  and  to 
the  Mission.1 

1  The  story  of  the  Home  Department  in  Great  Britain  is  continued  in 
Chap.  XVIII.  p.  1 1 6. 


XIV 
WAXING  STRONG  IN  FAITH 

LEAVING  the  Home  Department  in  the  charge  of  the  newly 
formed  London  Council  and  his  children  in  the  loving  care 
of  Miss  Blatchley,  who  at  No.  6  Pyrland  Road  also  had  the 
post  of  unofficial  Secretary  to  the  Mission,  Mr.  Taylor  set 
forth  once  again,  as  already  mentioned,  to  China.  His 
absence  from  England  this  time  was  to  be  almost  exactly 
two  years,  extending  from  October  9,  1872  to  October  14, 
1874.  In  this  chapter  we  purpose,  in  briefest  fashion,  to 
outline  this  period  when  the  work  was  beset  on  every  side 
with  humanly  insurmountable  difficulties.  Sickness,  physi 
cal  injury,  death,  lack  of  interest  at  home,  and  straitness 
of  funds  for  long  periods  together  hampered  the  Mission ; 
yet,  in  face  of  all,  God's  servants  waxed  strong  in  faith, 
entered  another  province,  and  planned  what  seemed  im 
possible  advance.  Let  us  first  take  a  rapid  glance  at  each 
of  the  more  important  stations,  and  then  learn  something 
of  the  trials  and  the  hopes  which  exercised  the  hearts  of  the 
little  band  of  workers  on  the  field. 

Starting  from  the  most  southerly  station  in  Chekiang, 
we  find  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Stott  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jackson  re 
joicing  over  a  steadily  growing  Church.  Here  in  Wenchow, 
where  in  the  early  days  Mr.  Stott  confessed  that  he  was 
seldom  out  of  trouble,  there  was  a  little  company  of  fourteen 
communicants — the  nucleus  of  what  was  to  become  one  of 
the  most  flourishing  Churches  in  the  Mission.  Choosing  one 
Sunday  as  an  example,  we  find  on  May  4,  1873,  a  congrega 
tion  of  some  300  people  listening  attentively,  for  over  an 

86 


WAXING  STRONG  IN  FAITH  87 

hour,  to  a  preacher  who  had,  but  a  little  while  before,  been 
one  of  the  least  promising  of  scholars. 

"  I  could  not  describe/'  wrote  Mr.  Stott,  "  the  thrilling  pleasure  I 
felt  as  I  sat  on  the  platform  beside  him  while  he  preached.  I  saw  the 
picture  of  a  ragged  blank-faced  boy  with  straw  sandals,  and  compared 
it  with  the  open,  intelligent  face  beside  me  ,  and  as  I  listened  to  the 
tones  of  his  soft,  musical,  but  yet  manly  voice,  setting  forth  Jesus 
Christ  and  salvation  through  Him  .  .  .  ,  it  was  conclusive  evidence  to 
me  of  the  truth  and  power  of  God's  Word." 

Travelling  north  to  the  next  central  station,  we  find  the 
work  at  Taichowfu  branching  out,  until  within  this  period 
Mr.  Rudland  had  no  fewer  than  five  out-stations  to  look 
after,  the  most  important  of  which  were  Hwangyen,  Taiping, 
and  Sienkii.  It  is  easy  in  telling  the  story  of  the  work  to 
forget  the  workmen  who  so  quietly  endured  hardship  and 
anxiety  that  the  work  might  be  accomplished.  Let  us  then, 
for  a  moment,  glance  into  that  missionary  home  at  Taichowfu, 
and  what  do  we  see  ?  There  is  sickness  there,  nothing  less  than 
the  dreaded  small-pox,  and  missionary  and  wife  and  children 
are  all  stricken  together,  and  no  doctor  nearer  than  Mr. 
Taylor  who  was  then  in  Ningpo.  Mr.  Taylor  had  only  just 
returned,  travelling  through  a  snowstorm,  from  sickness 
elsewhere,  but  he  sets  off  at  once,  taking  long  stages,  to 
reach  the  needy  station  quickly.  And  it  is  not  long  after 
this  ere  we  find  him  travelling  again,  this  time  for  about  500 
miles,  from  Wuchang  to  Nanking,  to  attend  Miss  Bowyer 
(Mrs.  Bailer),  who  was  down  with  the  same  disease.  The 
mere  recital  of  his  journeys,  as  servant  of  all  and  sole 
physician  to  the  Mission  in  these  days,  would  make  no 
inconsiderable  record  of  labour. 

North  of  Taichowfu  we  come  to  Fenghwa  and  Ninghai, 
where  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Crombie  had  resumed  their  work  after 
furlough.  Six  years  earlier  there  had  been  only  one  or  two 
converts,  but  now  the  workers  were  rejoiced  with  a  company 
of  fifty-six  communicants. 

In  the  stations  of  north  Chekiang  considerable  changes 
had  been  made  in  order  that  the  work  in  Anhwei  should  not 
be  entirely  neglected.  George  Duncan,  the  noble  pioneer 
of  Kiangsu,  the  first  Protestant  missionary  to  settle  in 


88  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

Nanking,  who  had  also  extensively  travelled  in  Anhwei  and 
endeavoured  to  hold  the  fort  at  Anking,  when  Mr.  Meadows 
went  home  on  furlough,  had  been  compelled  to  leave  China. 
His  vessel  on  its  homeward  journey  had  passed  near  Suez 
that  on  which  Mr.  Taylor  was  travelling  out.  Though 
Duncan  had  hoped  for  a  speedy  return  to  China,  that  was 
not  to  be,  for  on  February  23,  1875,  shortly  after  reaching 
England,  he  was  called  to  his  heavenly  reward.  Harvey 
had  also  gone  home  to  take  a  medical  course,  and  Reid  had 
been  compelled  to  retire  through  ill-health,  so  that  there 
was  nothing  for  it  but  to  make  a  call  upon  the  Chekiang 
workers  to  maintain  the  Mission's  position  elsewhere.  Apart 
from  Soochow,  into  which  city  other  Missions  had  entered, 
the  C.  I. M.  held  on,  however,  to  all  the  centres  already  occupied, 
and  even  extended  its  borders,  but  to  do  this  large  responsi 
bilities  had  to  be  placed  upon  the  Chinese  helpers. 

Mr.  McCarthy  was  then  chosen  to  move  to  Anking,  and 
to  effect  this  Mr.  Stevenson  undertook  the  charge  of  Ningpo, 
while  the  Girls'  School  was  transferred  from  Hangchow  to 
Shaohingfu  with  Miss  Turner  as  helper,  and  the  Boys'  School 
was  moved  to  Chinkiang  where  new  buildings  were  erected 
next  to  the  Girls'  School  there.  Pastor  Wang,  who  was  left 
in  charge  at  the  capital,  Hangchow,  also  undertook  the  over 
sight  of  Chiichowfu,  Lanchi  and  Siaoshan.  From  Anking 
Mr.  M'Carthy  hoped  to  superintend  the  work  at  Hweichow, 
Kwangtehchow,  Tatung  and  Wuhu  where  Chinese  helpers, 
most  of  whom  had  been  converted  at  Anking,  were 
located. 

At  Hangchow  there  had  been  a  most  encouraging  develop 
ment  towards  self-supporting  work.  A  Chinese  Missionary 
Society  had  been  formed,  70,000  cash  contributed,  and  one 
of  the  converts  had  been  selected  and  sent  forth  as  a  specially 
supported  evangelist  for  work  in  some  neglected  region .  The 
other  Chinese  helpers,  supported  by  the  Mission,  were  so 
widely  scattered,  some  of  them  being  from  three  to  four 
hundred  miles  apart,  that  a  Monthly  News  Letter  was 
adopted  for  the  sake  of  mutual  encouragement  and 
supervision. 

From  Kiukiang,  the  Yangtze  port  of  Kiangsi,  Mr.  Card- 


WAXING  STRONG  IN  FAITH  89 

well  had  continued  his  journeys  throughout  the  waterways 
of  the  province.  He  had  reached  Kiukiang  in  December 
1869,  had  dedicated  his  little  Mission  houseboat  to  God  in 
March  1871,  and  had  through  an  ever  -  extending  radius 
travelled  throughout  the  province.  Southward  he  had  gone 
as  far  as  Wanan,  some  360  miles  from  his  base  ;  westward 
as  far  as  Sinyuhsien  ;  to  the  south-east  to  Fuchow  ;  and 
east  along  the  Kwangsin  river  and  other  waterways.  In 
the  year  1872  alone  he  had  visited  over  107  cities,  towns 
and  villages,  and  had  sold  283  New  Testaments,  150 
Old  Testaments,  7000  Gospels  and  Epistles,  and  an  equal 
number  of  other  Christian  books.  How  extensive  these 
journeys  were  a  glance  at  a  map  of  Kiangsi  will  show. 
And  these  journeys  were  not  fruitless,  for  at  Kiukiang 
there  were  seventeen  candidates  for  baptism  as  well  as 
eight  inquirers. 

If  we  summarize  the  work  of  1873  alone,  we  find  that 
eleven  new  stations  and  out-stations  had  been  occupied  in 
the  four  provinces  of  Chekiang,  Kiangsu,  Anhwei  and 
Kiangsi.  One  of  these  stations  was  Shanghai,  where  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Edward  Fishe  took  charge,  which  from  this  time 
forth  became  the  Mission's  chief  business  centre  in  China. 
And  we  must  not  forget  to  report  that  on  September  3 
of  the  same  year,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Judd  and  Miss  Bowyer 
started  from  Liverpool,  by  the  American  route,  on  their 
return  to  China,  taking  with  them  two  new  workers 
from  Dr.  Guinness*  Training  Institute,  Messrs.  Henry  Taylor 
and  F.  W.  Bailer. 

Mr.  Hudson  Taylor  had  much  hoped  that  the  year  1873 
would  have  seen  work  started  in  a  new  province,  but  that 
was  not  to  be  before  the  summer  of  1874.  The  renting, 
leasing  and  purchasing  of  land  or  buildings,  all  the  tedious 
delays  of  opening  the  new  stations  and  out-stations,  already 
referred  to,  together  with  the  maintaining  of  the  work 
elsewhere,  had  taxed  the  powers  of  all  the  workers  to  the 
uttermost,  and  not  least  those  of  Mr.  Taylor  himself. 

To  follow  the  history  of  the  Mission  intelligently,  it  is 
necessary  always  to  remember  that  the  operations  were  all 
directed  in  accordance  with  one  general  and  comprehensive 


go  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

plan  for  the  evangelization  of  the  whole  of  China.  If  this 
is  forgotten,  the  work  of  the  early  years  will  appear  too 
scattered  and  superficial,  but  if  these  early  efforts  be 
recognized  as  part  of  a  well-thought-out  campaign,  the 
methods  will  be  more  fully  appreciated. 
In  April  1873,  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  : 

I  am  aiming  at  such  organization  of  our  forces  as  will  enable  us  to 
do  more  work  with  fewer  foreign  missionaries.  I  think  I  may  eventu 
ally  attain  to  one  superintendent  and  two  assistant  foreign  missionaries 
in  a  province,  with  qualified  Chinese  helpers  in  each  important  city, 
and  colporteurs  in  less  important  places.  I  hope  I  may  be  able,  ere 
the  year  closes,  to  commence  a  college  for  the  more  thorough  training 
of  our  Chinese  helpers. 

During  the  closing  months  of  the  year  he  wrote  again  : 

I  feel  much  drawn  out  in  prayer  to  ask  the  Lord  to  give  us  soon 
50  or  100  additional  Chinese  evangelists,  and  as  many  foreign 
brethren  to  superintend  them  as  He  sees  needed,  to  extend  the 
work  into  every  unoccupied  department  and  county  of  Chekiang — and 
there  are  fifty  of  them,  and  also  for  men  and  means  to  extend  our  work 
into  the  nine  unoccupied  provinces. 

In  January  1874,  he  wrote  : 

I  arn  now  in  the  act  of  arranging  for  the  eventual  opening  up  of  the 
whole  of  this  province  to  the  Gospel  as  the  Lord  gives  us  men,  open 
doors,  and  means.  Pray  for  these  three  things.  This  province, 
Chekiang,  contains  thirty  millions  of  souls.  It  is  divided  into  : 


1 

Circuits  (4). 

Prefectures  (n). 

Hsiens  (78). 

We    have    workers 

We  have  agents  in  6. 

4  Prefectures  have  each 

in  each. 

We  alone  in  3,  with 

2     Hsien     cities     in 

others  in  3.* 

their  walls.    So  there 

i  is  opened,  not  by  us. 

are  — 

4  are  still  unopened. 

74  Walled  Cities 

j 

ii  of  them  Fus 

63  Hsien 

We  opened  10  of  these. 

Others    opened    5     of 

these. 

*  One  of  these  we  opened, 
j     others  came  later. 

48  Hsien  cities  remain 
unopened. 

t 

WAXING  STRONG  IN  FAITH  91 

A  Hsien  is  a  county ;  the  hsien  city  its  capital.  In  this  province 
they  average  nearly  400,000  people  in  the  whole  Hsien.  As  the 
above  shows,  48  are  still  untouched.  .  .  .  Others  began  to  work 
this  province  in  1842  ;  we  in  1857  ;  the  C.I.M.  in  1866.  It  shows 
that  there  was  work  for  us  to  do  ;  that  we  have  done  some,  but  there 
is  yet  much  land  to  be  possessed. 

In  February  1874  he  wrote  a  long  letter  to  The  Christian, 
of  which  the  following  is  an  extract  : 

Oh,  do  pray  for  us  !  Plead  earnestly,  mightily  and  with  faith,  and 
soon  we  shall  see  great  things.  I  feel  I  must,  I  do  lay  hold  on  God's 
strength.  I  am  aiming  at  claiming  no  less  than  every  city  for 
Christ.  I  am  asking  for  50  or  100  Chinese  evangelists  for  this  one 
province  (Chekiang),  and  as  many  foreign  helpers  as  He  sees  fit  to 
superintend  them.  Till  the  work  is  fully  organized  and  the  mission 
aries  can  go  to  the  other  provinces,  I  have  no  doubt  that  He  who 
inspires  the  prayer  and  gives  the  fruit  will  answer  it,  than  I  have  that 
He  has  answered  prayer  in  the  past.  I  think,  too,  we  should  soon 
claim  the  remaining  nine  provinces  for  the  Lord.  As  soon  as  I  have 
got  the  work  a  little  more  forward  here  I  will  try  to  aim  at  this. 
Just  now  I  can  only  pray,  for  my  powers  are  limited.1  His,  however, 
are  not  so.  Let  us  honour  Him  with  a  full  trust. 

In  July  of  the  same  year,  though  sorely  tried  about  funds, 
as  we  shall  shortly  see,  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  again  in  a  private 
letter  which  we  think  will  not  be  misjudged  to-day  in  the 
light  of  history  : 

No  Mission  aims  at  the  definite  evangelization  of  China,  or  even 
of  a  single  province.  All  are  helping  towards  it.  ...  My  plans  are 
now  so  developing  that  were  I  able  to  remain  in  China,  and  had  I  a  few 
more  men  of  the  right  stamp,  in  two  or  three  years  we  might  have, 
D.V.,  missions  founded  in  each  province  otherwise  unoccupied — nine  ; 
in  each  prefecture  of  Anhwei,  and  in  each  Hsien  of  Chekiang,  if  funds 
were  adequate.  To  see  the  bare  possibility  of  this,  and  to  have  to 
defer  it  by  coming  home,  is  a  great  trial  to  me  ;  on  the  other  hand,  to 
return  may  be  needful  in  order  to  effect  it. 

These  extracts  reveal  the  burden  of  his  prayers,  the 
visions  of  his  hope,  and  his  plans  organized  in  faith  in  an 
Almighty  God.  But  faith,  hope  and  courage  were  to  be 
tested  to  the  uttermost.  More  than  a  month  before  the 

1  During  this  month  Mr.  Taylor  was  seriously  ill. 


92  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

letter  from  which  the  last  extract  is  taken  had  been  written, 
Mr.  Taylor  had  accompanied  Mr.  Judd  up  the  Yangtze  to 
Hankow  and  Wuchang.  Though  beset  by  innumerable 
difficulties,  he  purposed  opening  a  station  at  Wuchang,  the 
vice-regal  city  of  Hupeh  and  Hunan,  the  latter  one  of  the 
unoccupied  provinces,  with  a  view  to  extending  eventually 
into  the  nine  unevangelized  provinces.  It  was  on  this 
journey,  shortly  before  Hankow  was  reached,  that  Mr. 
Taylor  fell  on  the  steamer  on  which  he  was  travelling, 
injuring  his  spine  so  seriously  that  he  was  threatened  with 
the  prospects  of  being  a  cripple  for  life.  Yet  this  did  not 
daunt  him.  Premises  were  rented  at  Wuchang,  and  Mr. 
Judd  settled  in,  though  he  had  to  make  many  wearying 
changes  ere  he  secured  a  satisfactory  home. 

The  Mission  now  had  work  in  five  provinces,  and  humanly 
speaking  the  time  seemed  altogether  inopportune  for  any 
extension.  Apart  from  the  trials  of  ill-health,  lack  of 
workers,  and  opposition  from  the  Chinese,  the  Mission  was 
passing  through  one  of  the  severest  times  of  financial  trial  in 
its  history.  It  seemed  as  though  God  had  brought  His 
servants  down  as  low  as  it  was  possible  to  be  brought,  ere  He 
gave  them  the  joy  of  going  forward,  that  they  might  prove 
His  strength  made  perfect  in  weakness. 

What  then  were  the  liabilities  of  the  Mission  and  its 
income  ?  There  were  at  this  time  more  than  fifty  buildings 
— houses,  chapels  and  schools — to  keep  in  repair,  as  well  as 
rent  to  pay  for  forty  of  them.  There  were  more  than  100 
workers,  Chinese  and  foreign,1  and  70  children  (missionaries' 
children  and  Chinese  scholars)  to  provide  for.  There  were 
all  the  travelling  expenses  in  China  and  the  expenses  of 
furlough ;  so  that  the  Mission  needed  not  less  than  £100  a 
week  if  the  work  was  to  be  vigorously  prosecuted.  Yet  from 
January  to  March  of  1874  the  Honorary  Secretaries  in 
London  were  only  able  to  send  £400.  From  another  source 
£300  was  received,  but  in  making  up  his  accounts  on 
April  i,  Mr.  Taylor  found  he  had  only  about  £5  :  los.  in 
hand. 

1  The  wives  of  missionaries  are  included,  but  not  wives  of  Chinese 
helpers. 


WAXING  STRONG  IN  FAITH  93 

The  story  of  these  days  must  be  read  in  detail  to  appre 
ciate  the  prolonged  daily  trial,  but  only  a  summary  can  be 
attempted  here.  Knowing  that  the  workers  must  be  sorely 
needing  funds,  Mr.  Taylor  eagerly  awaited  the  arrival  of  the 
next  mail.  On  April  7,  he  received  it,  but  to  find  only 
£25  :  ii  :  8,  which  consisted  wholly  of  special  donations. 
He  knew  that  £500  would  have  been  instantly  absorbed. 
There  were  170  persons  to  clothe  and  feed,  and  what  was 
more,  the  lives  of  two  workers  would  be  endangered  if  their 
furlough  were  delayed,  and  the  passages  for  these  two  and 
their  husbands  would  cost  £225. 

To  make  a  long  and  deeply  instructive  story  short,  the 
Honorary  Secretaries  in  London  only  sent  £750  from  April 
to  June,  and  the  same  kind  friend  who  had  sent  £300  during 
the  first  quarter  of  the  year,  sent  a  similar  sum  again. 
Yet  in  many  ways,  the  details  of  which  cannot  be  told  here, 
the  needs  were  supplied.  "  Suffice  it  to  say,"  wrote  Mr. 
Taylor,  "  that  as  usual  we  proved  Him  faithful,  and  we 
began  July  with  $3  in  hand."  Let  it  be  remembered  that 
it  was  during  this  time  of  financial  trial  that  Wuchang  was 
opened  with  a  view  to  work  farther  west,  though  a  special 
gift,  to  which  reference  will  be  made  later,  justified 
this,  and  it  was  during  this  period  that  Mr.  Taylor 
wrote  : 

I  feel  no  anxiety,  though  for  a  month  past  I  have  not  had  a  dollar 
in  hand  for  the  general  purposes  of  the  Mission.  The  Lord  will 
provide. 

The  Mission  was  truly  very  poor,  except  in  God.  During 
these  two  years  Mr.  Duncan  had  died,  as  already  mentioned, 
and  Mrs.  Rudland  died  shortly  after  reaching  England  ;  on 
October  23,  1874,  Miss  Blatchley,  who  had  been  so  much 
to  the  Mission  at  home,  its  chief  correspondent,  and  its 
editor,  had  also  died  on  July  25,  187/j..1  The  Prayer  Meeting 
in  London  had  almost  languished.  At  times  it  came  as  low 
as  two  persons,  Miss  Blatchley,  as  an  invalid  upon  her  couch, 
and  Miss  H.  E.  Soltau  ;  sometimes  joined  by  Mr.  Harvey, 

1  "  The  Mission  would  never  have  been  what  it  is  but  for  her  ability, 
diligence  and  faithfulness,"  wrote  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor. 


94  THE  FIRST  DECADE 

who  was  studying  medicine.  The  lack  of  interest  at  home 
had  been  reflected  in  the  funds.  The  Home  Council  was 
perplexed,  but  its  members  all  being  busy  men  could  do  little 
to  make  known  the  needs  of  China  throughout  the  country. 
Things  were  at  lowest  ebb,  but  Mr.  Taylor  would  not  be  dis 
couraged.  It  was  true  that  "  the  rains  descended,  and  the 
floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew  and  beat  upon  "  that  little 
Mission,  but  "  it  fell  not,"  for  was  it  not  founded  upon  the 
Rock,  as  Christ  had  said  of  those  who  heard  His  words  and 
did  them.  Writing  some  two  years  earlier  to  the  friends  of 
the  Mission,  Mr.  Taylor  had  said  : 

The  Chinese  Evangelization  Society  is  no  more  ;  many  of  the 
honoured  names  that  were  on  its  Committee  are  no  longer  with  us  ; 
many  of  the  liberal  donors  to  its  funds  have  entered  into  their  rest ; 
and  some  of  the  labourers  in  the  Mission  field  have  also  gone  to  their 
reward ;  but  the  work  of  God  in  which  they  were  engaged  still  lives 
and  grows  and  prospers,  and  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail 
against  it. 

With  this  conviction,  in  spite  of  all  appearances  to  the 
contrary,  Mr.  Taylor  left  China  believing  that  "  these 
frequent  and  increasingly  severe  trials  of  faith  "  were  to  be 
looked  upon  "  merely  as  trials  of  faith,"  and  therefore  as  a 
challenge  to  a  larger  and  a  fuller  trust  in  God  to  do  yet  greater 
things  than  hitherto.  What  these  greater  things  were  our 
next  chapter  must  show,  but  ere  we  pass  we  must  pause  to 
quote  a  few  lines  from  Dr.  Grattan  Guinness'  tribute  to  the 
memory  of  Miss  Blatchley  : 

Faithful  friend  of  a  feeble  but  heroic  Mission,  would  that  all  its 
helpers  were  like-minded  with  thee  !  Would  that  all  those  who  have 
ministered  to  it  of  their  substance  had  as  constant  a.  memory  of  its 
wants  as  thine  !  The  China  Inland  Mission  has  no  eloquent  advocate 
of  its  claims.  It  has  no  denomination  for  its  support.  It  has  no 
great  names  on  which  to  rely.  It  is,  therefore,  cast  the  more  on  God, 
and  on  the  faithful  love  and  help  of  the  comparatively  few  who  can 
appreciate  the  simplicity,  faith,  and  devotedness  which  characterise 
its  work  in  the  interest  of  China's  millions.  .  .  .  Here,  around  this 
newly  opened  grave,  let  our  interest  in  this  work  revive ;  and  help 
Thou,  O  Lord  !  Is  not  Thy  Name  inscribed  upon  its  banner  ?  Is  not 
its  song  Ebenezer,  and  its  hope  Jehovah- Jireh  ?  Bless,  then,  this 
Mission,  and  let  the  little  one  become  a  thousand,  for  Thy  glory's  sake. 


WAXING  STRONG  IN  FAITH 


95 


MISSIONS  IN   CHINA 
(At  the  close  of  the  Year  1874.) 

I.  THE  UNOCCUPIED  PROVINCES 


Province. 

Protestant  Missionaries 
(1874). 

Roman  Catholic  Missionaries 
(1866). 

Kansu 

None 

^ 

Shensi 

None 

j24 

Shansi 
Honan 
Szechwan 
Yunnan     . 

None 
None 
None 
None 

25 
10 

97 
18 

9  Bishops. 
82  Foreign  Priests. 
118  Chinese  Priests. 

Kweichow 

None 

*7 

Hunan 

None 

18  J 

Kwangsi   .        .    ;                None 

Bracketed  with  Kwangtung. 

Nine  Provinces.    No  Protestant  Worker. I  209  Roman  Catholic  Mission 


aries. 


II.  PARTIALLY  EVANGELIZED  PROVINCES 


Province. 

Protestant  Missionaries 
(1874). 

Roman  Catholic  Missionaries 
(1866). 

Kwangtung 

55 

-5  "* 

Fukien 

37 

27 

Chekiang  . 
Kiangsu    . 
Shantung  . 
Chihli 

38 
36 
27 

27 
55 
15 
88 

21  Bishops. 
•151  Foreign  Priests. 
119  Chinese  Priests. 

Hupeh 

18 

35 

Kiangsi 

9 

2lJ 

Anhwei      .                                  i 

Bracketed  with  Kiangsu. 

Nine  Provinces.  |  262  Protestant  Mis 

291  Roman  Catholic  Mission 

sionaries.     Con- 

aries.     Connected    with    5 

nected     with     29 

Missions. 

Missions. 

THE   SECOND   DECADE 

1875-1885 

CHAP.  15.  THE  APPEAL  FOR  THE  EIGHTEEN. 

„  16.  THE  DOOR  OPENED. 

„  17.  UNTO  THE  ENDS  OF  THE  EARTH. 

„  18.  PYRLAND  ROAD. 

„  19.  PIONEERS  IN  WOMEN'S  WORK. 

„  20.  BLESSINGS  IN  DISGUISE. 

„  21.  A  CHINESE  PIONEER. 

„  22.  HEALING  THE  SICK. 

„  23.  PIONEER  WORK  IN  HUNAN. 

„  24.  THE  STORY  OF  THE  SEVENTY. 


97  H 


"  Do  you  ask  me  what  I  think  of  China,  looking  at  it  from  the  gates  of 
the  grave  ?  Oh,  my  heart  is  big  to  the  overflow  :  it  swells,  and  enlarges, 
and  expands,  and  is  nigh  unto  bursting.  If  I  thought  anything  could 
prevent  my  dying  for  China,  the  thought  would  crush  me.  Our  only 
wish  is  to  live  for  China,  and  to  die  in  pointing  the  Chinese 

To  His  redeeming  blood,  and  say 
Behold  the  way  to  God  !  " 

REV.  SAMUEL  DYER. 

(Father  of  the  first  Mrs.  Hudson  Taylor,  in  a  letter  to  his  sister  written 
at  the  bedside  of  his  dying  child.) 


XV 
THE  APPEAL  FOR  THE  EIGHTEEN 

THE  birthday  of  a  Mission  is  not  as  easily  fixed  as  that  of 
an  individual,  and  especially  is  this  the  case  with  the  China 
Inland  Mission.  Mr.  Taylor  sailed  for  China  in  1853  ;  his 
independent  work,  after  his  resignation  from  the  Chinese 
Evangelization  Society,  commenced  in  1857  '>  Mr.  Meadows, 
the  first  of  the  early  workers,  sailed  in  1862  ;  the  work  was 
organized  under  the  name  China  Inland  Mission  in  1865  ; 
and  the  sailing  of  the  Lammermuir  party,  which  more  fully 
inaugurated  the  Mission,  was  in  1866.  But  while  the 
organized  work  dates  from  1865,  the  Mission  year,  for  the 
first  twenty  years,  with  one  exception,  dated  from  May  26, 
the  anniversary  of  the  sailing  of  the  Lammermuir  party. 
In  1885,  however,  the  Mission  year  was  changed  so  as  to 
start  with  January  i.  Accurately  speaking,  therefore,  the 
early  months  of  1875  belong  to  the  first  decade  of  the  Mission's 
history,  but  as  January  of  that  year,  in  more  ways  than  one, 
ushers  in  the  beginning  of  a  new  period,  we  shall,  for  the 
sake  of  historical  continuity,  commence  this  fresh  section 
with  the  New  Year. 

In  December  1873,  a  lady  in  England  had  written  to  the 
Council  of  the  Mission  in  London  : 

I  bless  God  in  two  months  I  hope  to  place  into  the  hands  of  your 
Council  the  management  of  £800  for  the  further  extension  of  the 
China  Inland  Mission.  Please  remember  for  fresh  provinces.  ...  If 
faith  is  put  forth  and  praise  sent  up,  I  am  sure  the  Jehovah  of  Hosts 
will  honour  it. 

99 


ioo  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

It  was  the  receipt  of  this  money  coming  to  Mr.  Taylor's 
knowledge  in  China,  during  the  months  of  financial  trial  in 
1874  already  referred  to,  that  encouraged  him  to  go  forward, 
with  Mr.  Judd,  and  open  Wuchang  as  a  base  for  the  regions 
beyond.  During  this  journey  it  will  be  remembered  Mr. 
Taylor  injured  his  spine,  and  when  he  returned  to  England 
towards  the  close  of  the  year,  he  came  as  one  who  was  faced 
with  the  possibility,  if  not  the  probability,  of  being  a  cripple 
for  life. 

The  story  of  these  days  is  one  of  the  most  striking  illustra 
tions  of  how  God's  servants  through  faith  "  obtained 
promises,"  and,  "  out  of  weakness  were  made  strong." 
Mr.  Taylor  was  practically  a  helpless  invalid,  compelled  to 
lie  upon  his  back,  and  unable  even  to  write  his  own  letters. 
For  six  months  we  can  picture  him  in  his  room  at  6  Pyrland 
Road,  gazing  at  a  map  of  China  set  up  at  the  foot  of  his 
couch,  praying  and  purposing  great  things  for  the  land 
which  God  had  laid  upon  his  heart.  It  was  during  this 
period,  when  he  was  absolutely  dependent  upon  the  help  of 
friends  for  the  answering  of  his  correspondence,  and  when 
in  regard  to  the  needs  of  China  and  of  the  Mission  he  could,  as 
he  afterwards  wrote,  "  do  nothing  but  rejoice  in  the  Lord 
and  wait  patiently  for  Him,"  that  he  sent  forth  a  remarkable 
appeal,  especially  remarkable  when  his  helpless  and  crippled 
state  be  remembered. 

This  Appeal,  which  was  printed  in  a  number  of  Christian 
journals,1  was  as  follows  : 

APPEAL  FOR  PRAYER 
ON  BEHALF  OF  MORE  THAN  150  MILLIONS  OF  CHINESE 

There  are  nine  provinces  of  China,  each  as  large  as  a  European 
kingdom,  averaging  a  population  of  seventeen  or  eighteen  millions 
each,  but  all  destitute  of  the  pure  Gospel.  About  a  hundred  Roman 
Catholic  priests  from  Europe  live  in  them,  but  not  one  Protestant 
missionary. 

Much  prayer  has  been  offered  on  behalf  of  these  nine  provinces  by 
some  friends  of  the  China  Inland  Mission ;  and  during  the  past  year 

1  This  is  copied  from  the  pages  of  The  Christian  for  January  21,  1875. 


THE  APPEAL  FOR  THE  EIGHTEEN          101 

nearly  £4000  1  has  been  contributed  on  condition  that  it  be  used  in 
these  provinces  alone.  We  have  some  native  Christians  from  these 
regions,  who  have  been  converted  in  our  older  stations,  and  who  are 
most  earnestly  desiring  the  evangelization  of  their  native  districts. 
Our  present  pressing  need  is  of  missionaries  to  lead  the  way.  Will 
each  of  your  Christian  readers  at  once  raise  his  heart  to  God,  and  wait 
one  minute  in  earnest  prayer  that  God  will  raise  up  this  year  eighteen 
suitable  men,  to  devote  themselves  to  this  work.  Warm-hearted 
young  men,  who  have  a  good  knowledge  of  business,  clerks,  or  assist 
ants  in  shops,  who  have  come  in  contact  with  the  public  and  learnt 
to  cover  the  wants  and  suit  the  wishes  of  purchasers,  are  well  fitted 
for  this  work.  They  should  possess  strong  faith,  devoted  piety,  and 
burning  zeal ;  be  men  who  will  gladly  live,  labour,  suffer,  and  if  need 
be,  die  for  Christ's  sake. 

There  are  doubtless  such  in  the  Churches  of  the  United  Kingdom. 
May  the  Lord  thrust  many  of  them  out.  We  shall  be  glad  to  hear 
from  such.  J.  HUDSON  TAYLOR. 

CHINA  INLAND  MISSION, 
6  Pyrland  Road,  N.,  January  1875. 

How  inopportune  the  time  and  circumstances  appeared 
for  such  an  appeal !  Mr.  Taylor,  the  leader  of  the  work  was 
weak  and  helpless.  That  was  true,  but  had  not  the  command 
been  given  "  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature  "  ? 
"  His  commands  sometimes  appear  strange,"  wrote  Mr. 
Taylor.  "  At  times  it  might  have  been  urged  that  they 
were  impracticable."  But  commenting  on  the  words, 
"  Whatsoever  He  saith  unto  you,  do  it,"  he  added  : 

We  believe  that  the  time  has  come  for  doing  more  fully  what  He 
has  commanded  us  ;  and  by  His  grace  we  intend  to  do  it.  Not  to 
try  ;  for  we  see  no  Scriptural  authority  for  trying.  "  Try  "  is  a  word 
constantly  in  the  mouth  of  unbelievers  ...  in  our  experience  "  to 
try  "  has  usually  meant  "  to  fail."  The  word  of  the  Lord  in  reference 
to  His  commands  is  not,  "  Do  your  best,"  but  "  Do  it,"  that  is,  do 
the  thing  commanded.  We  are  therefore  making  arrangements  for 
commencing  work  in  each  of  these  nine  provinces ;  without  haste, 
"  for  he  that  believeth  shall  not  make  haste,"  but  also  without  un 
necessary  delay. 

When  the  Appeal  was  issued  little  did  God's  servants 
know  how  events  in  China  were  to  be  ordered  for  the  opening 

1  The  greater  part  of  this  sum  was  from  a  private  legacy  left  to  Mrs. 
Hudson  Taylor  which  she  devoted  to  this  new  work. 


102  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

of  these  unoccupied  provinces — events  which  at  first  seemed 
to  close  the  doors  rather  than  open  them.  On  February 
21,  1875,  Mr.  A.  R.  Margary,  a  young  Consular  officer,  was 
murdered  in  Yunnan,  when  travelling  with  a  special  passport 
provided  by  the  Tsungli  Yamen.  For  the  next  eighteen 
months  China  indulged  in  a  series  of  provoking  delays  in 
offering  reparation,  until  Great  Britain  and  China  were  on 
the  verge  of  war,  and  Sir  Thomas  Wade,  the  British  Minister, 
withdrew  from  Peking.  But  these  things  did  not  make  Mr. 
Taylor  waver  in  his  resolution. 

"  The  difficulties/'  he  wrote,  "  are  to  human  strength  insuper 
able.  ...  Is  not  all  Burma  in  turmoil  ?  Has  not  Margary  been 
murdered  at  Manwyne  ?  Do  not  the  latest  tidings  tell  of  Chinese 
troops  massing  in  Yunnan  ?  .  .  .  What,  again,  can  our  brother 
Henry  Taylor  and  his  Chinese  evangelist  do  among  the  twenty-five 
millions  of  Honan  ?  We  care  not  to  answer  that  question  ;  we  know 
what  He  who  dwells  in  them  and  walks  in  them  can  do  there." 

And  so  candidates  were  encouraged  to  offer  and  were 
accepted  when  suitable. 

Meanwhile  on  the  field  attention  was  being  given  to  some 
of  these  needy  provinces.  Mr.  Henry  Taylor,  referred  to 
above,  left  Wuchang  on  April  3  in  company  with  Evangelist 
Chang  and  commenced  the  first  missionary  journey  in 
Honan.  During  this  tour,  which  lasted  fifty-six  days,  he 
visited  a  number  of  cities  and  towns  in  the  prefectures  of 
Nanyang  and  Runing,  as  well  as  the  prefectural  cities  them 
selves.  In  the  autumn  he  again  visited  the  province,  reach 
ing  Kaifeng,  the  capital,  in  December,  and  Honanfu 
a  little  later.  This  second  journey  lasted  nearly  three 
months. 

In  June  of  the  same  year  Mr.  Judd,  with  two  Chinese 
Christians,  one  named  Yao  being  a  converted  Hunanese, 
entered  Hunan.  No  difficulty  was  at  first  experienced  in 
renting  and  entering  a  house  in  Yochow.  But  how  little 
did  they  realize  that  long  years  of  opposition  would  have  to 
be  encountered,  and  that  their  pioneering  efforts  would 
need  to  be  repeated  as  often  as  the  Syrophoenician  woman 
her  entreaties,  ere  a  permanent  settlement  was  gained. 
Even  then  the  knowledge  of  Margary's  murder  was  used 


THE  APPEAL  FOR  THE  EIGHTEEN          103 

as  a  pretext  by  the  officials  for  withholding  protection,  and 
the  little  party  had  to  withdraw  somewhat  speedily,  after 
being  roughly  handled.  Hunan  was,  however,  visited  again 
later  in  the  year  by  the  Chinese 'evangelists.  Thus  without 
any  reinforcements  from  home,  two  of  the  nine  unoccupied 
provinces  had  been  entered  and  work  commenced. 

Early  thought  was  also  given  to  western  China.  For 
ten  years  prayer  had  been  offered  that  God  would  open  the 
way  into  Yunnan  through  Burma,  and  it  was  a  similar  desire 
for  the  purposes  of  trade  that  led  to  the  expedition  of  the 
Indian  Government,  in  connection  with  which  Margary  had 
been  killed.  The  Mohammedan  rebellion,  which  lasted  till 
1873,  had  long  kept  this  door  closed,  but  this  rebellion  was 
now  crushed,  and  Mr.  Taylor  therefore  decided  to  open  a 
station  in  Bhamo,  with  the  western  provinces  in  view.  The 
Irrawaddy  had  been  opened  as  far  as  Bhamo,  and  a  British 
resident  stationed  there,  so  Messrs.  J.  W.  Stevenson  1  and 
Henry  Soltau  sailed  for  Rangoon  from  Glasgow  on  April  6, 
1875,  with  Bhamo  as  their  objective.  Owing  to  political 
difficulties  they  at  first  experienced  some  delay,  but  in  the 
autumn,  after  an  interview  with  the  King  of  Burma  in 
Mandalay,  who  gave  them  a  grant  of  land  for  Mission 
purposes,  they  settled  in  Bhamo  on  October  3,  which  has 
been  held  ever  since  as  a  station  of  the  Mission.  The  prayer 
that  this  might  be  a  door  into  western  China  was  not  to  be 
answered  in  the  way  expected,  yet  none  the  less,  the  murder 
of  Margary,  in  the  effort  of  securing  a  western  entrance  into 
China,  did  lead  to  the  opening,  not  only  of  the  western 
provinces,  but  of  inland  China  generally,  as  will  be  related 
in  the  next  chapter. 

But  though  inland  China  was  not  open,  more  than 
sixty  candidates  applied  in  response  to  the  appeal  made  by 
Mr.  Taylor.  Of  these,  nine  men  sailed  before  the  close  of  the 
year,  while  one  other,  Mr.  Adams,  was  accepted  in  Burma. 

In  the  early  months  of  the  following  year,  1876,  five  more 

1  When  Mr.  Stevenson  left  Shaohingfu  for  furlough  in  June  1874 
(there  being  then  42  communicants  in  his  district),  Mr.  Meadows 
took  charge  temporarily !  Mr.  Meadows,  however,  remained  there  till 
his  death  in  1914.  Forty  years  at  this  station,  with  only  one  furlough,  is 
no  mean  record. 


104  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

men  followed,  so  that  in  less  than  eighteen  months  fifteen 
men  l  had  been  accepted,  and  had  gone  forward  for  work 
among  the  nine  unoccupied  provinces,  while  six  others,  who 
were  already  members  of  the  Mission,  had  volunteered  for 
the  same  work.  During  the  same  period  seven  ladies  (3 
single  and  4  wives)  had  joined  the  Mission,  making  thus 
a  total  of  twenty-two  new  workers  in  all. 

1  Henry  Soltau,  George  King,  J.  Cameron,  G.  Nicoll,  George  Clarke, 
J.  F.  Broumton,  G.  F.  Easton,  J.  J.  Turner,  C.  Budd,  S.  Adams,  E.  Pearse, 
F.  James,  George  Parker,  Horace  Randle,  and  R.  J.  Landale. 


GROUP  III. 


1.  GEORGE  KING. 

4.  JAMES  WILLIAMSON. 

7.  GEORGE  CLARKE. 


2.  GEORGE  DUNCAN. 

5.  JAMES  J.  MEADOWS  (in  1862). 

8.   GEORGE  F.  E ASTON. 

Biographical  details  can  be  ascertained  by  use  of  Index,  p.  375. 
See  also  Summary  of  Early  Journeys,  pp.  114-115. 


3.  JAMES  CAMERON. 
6.  CHARLES  H.  JUDD. 
9.  GEORGE  PARKER. 


Between  pp.  104-105. 


1.    J.   F.   BltOUMTON. 

4.  FKED.  W.  BALLER. 
7.  SAMUEL  CLARKE. 


GROUP  IV. 

2.  HENRY  HUNT. 
5.  JAMES  M'CARTHY. 

8.    J.  J.  COULTHARB. 


ADAM  C.  DORWARD. 
EDWARD  PEARSE. 
GEOROE  NICOLL. 


Biographical  details  can  be  ascertained  by  use  of  Index,  p.  375. 
See  also  Summary  of  Early  Journeys,  pp.  114-115. 


Between  pp.  104-10o. 


XVI 
THE  DOOR  OPENED 

AFTER  the  sailing  of  the  new  volunteers,  mentioned  in  the 
last  chapter,  Mr.  Taylor,  with  a  party  of  ladies,  left  England 
on  September  7,  1876.  This  date  was,  as  it  will  be  recog 
nized,  six  days  before  the  signing  of  the  Chefoo  Convention, 
and  the  going  forth  of  such  a  party  at  such  a  time  seemed 
almost  worse  than  foolish.  All  the  negotiations  of  the 
British  Minister  with  the  Chinese  Government  had  failed, 
and  so  at  last  Sir  Thomas  Wade  had  left  Peking,  and  strong 
reinforcements  were  sent  out  to  strengthen  the  British  Fleet. 
"  But,"  wrote  Mr.  Taylor,  "  prayer  has  not  failed,"  and  so 
feeling  impelled  of  God  to  go  forth  once  again  to  strengthen 
the  hands  of  the  volunteers  who  had  so  recently  reached 
China,  he  determined,  though  outward  circumstances 
appeared  adverse,  to  go  forward.  Improbable  and  unwise 
as  it  all  appeared  to  human  sight,  the  time  was  God's  time, 
for  the  Chinese  Government  saw,  when  Sir  Thomas  Wade 
withdrew  from  Peking,  that  they  had  gone  too  far,  and 
H.  E.  Li  Hung-chang  speedily  followed  the  British  Minister 
to  Chefoo,  where  the  Convention  was  signed  on  September  13, 
1876.  Thus  it  came  to  pass  that  though  the  door  was  still 
closed  when  Mr.  Taylor  and  party  sailed  on  September  7, 
he  found,  when  he  once  again  landed  on  China's  shores  that 
the  fullest  freedom  had  been  gained  for  carrying  forward  the 
work  so  much  desired. 

Events  had  unquestionably  been  guided  by  an  Omniscient 
Leader,  for  not  only  were  the  men  on  the  field,  but  they  had 
had  time  for  the  study  of  the  language,  and  were  now  ready 

105 


io6  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

for  the  Forward  Movement.  No  time  or  conditions  could 
have  been  more  favourable.  The  Chefoo  Convention 
secured  that  special  orders  should  be  sent  by  the  Tsungli 
Yamen  to  all  Provincial  Governors,  instructing  them  to 
issue  a  Proclamation  which  should  embody  at  length  an 
Imperial  decree  granting  full  liberty  and  protection  to  all 
foreigners  travelling  in  inland  China,  if  provided  with  a 
passport.  The  Convention  also  agreed  that  for  the  following 
two  years,  officers  should  be  sent  by  the  British  Minister  to 
different  places  in  the  provinces  to  see  that  the  proclamation 
was  posted.1  Thus  did  He  by  whom  "  kings  reign  and 
princes  decree  justice  "  set  before  His  servants  an  open  door 
into  the  remotest  parts  of  the  Empire.  Let  us  follow  them 
in  some  of  their  long  and  arduous  journeys. 

It  will  be  remembered  that  journeys  had  been  made  into 
Honan  and  Hunan,  two  of  the  nine  unoccupied  provinces, 
before  any  of  the  new  reinforcements  had  reached  China. 
Messrs.  Stevenson  and  H.  Soltau  also  had  settled  at  Bhamo 
in  October  1875  as  a  pied-a-terre  for  entry  into  Yunnan.  In 
the  following  January  they  secured  a  site  for  building  the 
necessary  premises,  and  ere  these  were  ready  they  were 
joined  by  Mr.  Adams  and  by  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Harvey,  who  had 
come  out  to  start  medical  work.  In  August  1876,  before 
the  signing  of  the  Chefoo  Convention,  Messrs.  F.  W.  Bailer 
and  George  King  set  off  from  Hankow  for  the  province 
of  Shensi,  and  reached  Hinganfu  in  September.  On  this 
journey  they  were  only  absent  for  a  little  over  two  months, 
as  their  supplies  ran  short,  and  they  reached  Wuchang  to 
find  that  the  Settlement  at  Chefoo  had  been  made  during 
their  absence. 

Little  time  was  lost  after  the  signing  of  the  Chefoo  Con 
vention  ere  advantage  was  taken  of  its  facilities.  During 
the  third  week  of  October,  a  few  days  before  Mr.  Taylor 
reached  Shanghai,  three  parties  set  forth  for  the  north  and 
north-eastern  provinces  :  Messrs.  George  King  and  Budd 

1  This  Convention,  signed  on  September  13,  1876,  was  not  ratified 
until  May  6,  1886.  This  delay  was  occasioned  by  China's  refusal  to 
exempt  opium  from  the  Likin  tax,  It  was  not  until  July  18,  1885,  that 
China  signed  the  additional  articles  granting  this  exemption. 


THE  DOOR  OPENED  107 

for  Shensi ;  Messrs.  Easton  and  George  Parker  for  Kansu, 
via  Shensi  ;  and  Messrs.  Turner  and  F.  James  for  Shansi, 
each  worker  accompanied  b}'  a  Chinese  helper.  A  request 
for  prayer  for  these  brethren,  sent  home  by  Mr.  M'Carthy, 
was  published  in  The  Christian,  and  supported  by  a  letter 
from  Lord  Radstock  : 

"  It  may  be,"  wrote  Lord  Radstock,  "  that  the  request  for  prayer 
for  the  twelve  preachers  of  the  Gospel,  going  to  Shensi,  Shansi,  and 
Kansu,  has  scarcely  conveyed  to  the  Church  of  Christ  the  unspeakable 
importance  and  blessedness  of  the  service  undertaken.  A  glance  .at 
the  map  will  show  that  a  journey  of  about  800  miles  is  needed  before 
Shensi  and  Shansi  can  be  reached,  and  that  probably  noo  miles  will 
have  to  be  traversed  by  those  going  to  Kansu.  There  are,  I  believe, 
upwards  of  forty  million  persons  in  these  provinces.  .  .  .  Surely 
these  servants  of  God  ought  to  have  the  most  heartfelt  sympathy  and 
constant  prayers  of  the  whole  Church." 

In  December  1876  Messrs.  Cameron  and  Nicoll  started  for 
Ichang  as  a  halfway  station  for  work  in  the  province  of 
Szechwan.  On  January  2, 1877,  Messrs.  Judd  and  Broumton 
left  for  the  province  of  Kweichow,  travelling  through  Hunan. 
In  the  same  month  Mr.  M'Carthy  left  Chinkiang  for  his 
memorable  journey  across  China  into  Burma.  Two  or 
three  months  later  Messrs.  George  Clarke,  Edward  Fishe 
and  R.  J.  Landale  followed  Messrs.  Judd  and  Broumton 
into  Kweichow,  for  work  in  Kwangsi  ;  while  Mr.  Henry 
Taylor  continued  his  itinerant  journeys  in  the  province  of 
Honan. 

Thus  was  full  use  made  of  the  door  which  God  had  un 
questionably  opened  into  all  of  the  unoccupied  provinces  of 
China.  Though  space  will  only  permit  the  barest  outline, 
let  us  in  our  next  chapter  rapidly  follow  these  several  parties 
of  travellers  into  the  various  provinces  visited. 


XVII 
UNTO  THE  ENDS  OF  THE  EARTH 

THE  province  of  Shansi  first  claims  our  attention.  This 
province,  which  is  larger  in  area  than  Scotland  and  Ireland 
combined,  is  now  well  known  to  many  readers  as  the  centre 
of  Pastor  Hsi's  remarkable  work,  and  as  the  province 
where  more  than  150  missionaries  and  their  children 
were  put  to  death  in  1900.  With  this  province  as  their 
objective,  Messrs.  J.  J.  Turner  and  F.  James  set  forth 
from  Chinkiang  on  October  17,  1876.  Travelling  up  the 
river  as  far  as  Nanking,  they  landed  at  Pukow,  now  known 
as  the  Yangtze  terminus  of  the  railway  from  Tientsin,  and 
started  their  long  overland  journey  through  Anhwei  and 
Honan,  across  the  Yellow  River,  and  up  the  almost  wall-like 
ascent  to  the  uplands  of  Shansi.  This  province  was  entered 
on  November  15,  and  during  the  next  few  weeks  seven  walled 
cities,  including  the  three  prefectural  cities  of  Tsechow, 
Pingyangfu,  and  Puchowfu  were  visited  ;  and  then  short 
ness  of  funds  compelled  them  to  return  via  Honan  and  the 
Han  river  to  Hankow,  which  they  reached  on  January  8. 
During  their  absence  of  two  and  a  half  months  they  had 
traversed  some  seventeen  hundred  miles  in  peace  and  safety. 
After  a  rest  of  about  a  month,  the  travellers  set  forth 
once  again  on  February  8,  journeying  this  time  up  the  Han 
river  with  the  full  intention  of  remaining  permanently,  if 
possible,  in  the  province  of  Shansi.  When  they  came  to 
traverse  that  province,  and  neared  the  capital,  Taiyuanfu, 
which  was  reached  in  April,  they  discovered  a  distressing 
condition  of  affairs.  For  three  years  there  had  been  no 

108 


UNTO  THE  ENDS  OF  THE  EARTH     109 

crops,  and  the  wheat  of  that  year  had  already  turned  brown. 
The  sandy  soil  was  dried  to  powder  ;  the  cities  and  villages 
exhibited  many  marks  of  poverty  ;  the  fields  were  mostly 
barren,  and  the  people  in  a  starving  condition.  Making 
Taiyuanfu  their  centre,  the  two  brethren  commenced  work 
in  the  surrounding  country,  but  during  the  year  both  of 
them  were  stricken  down  with  famine  fever,  and  after  a 
period  of  seven  months,  the  condition  of  Mr.  James'  health 
made  a  change  absolutely  necessary.  Unable  to  travel  alone, 
Mr.  Turner  escorted  him  to  the  coast.  Taiyuanfu  was  left 
on  November  28,  and  Wuchang  reached  on  January  22, 
1878,  just  eleven  months  and  nine  days  since  they  had 
set  out. 

Little  did  they  know  that  only  two  days  after  they  had 
left  the  city  of  Taiyuanfu  for  the  south,  Dr.  Timothy  Richard 
reached  the  same  city  from  the  east,  bringing  famine  relief. 
In  the  following  March  Mr.  Turner  returned  to  the  province, 
this  time  accompanied  by  the  Rev.  David  Hill  of  the 
Wesley  an  Missionary  Society  and  the  Rev.  A.  Whiting  of 
the  American  Presbyterian  Mission,  with  the  sum  of  between 
four  and  five  thousand  pounds  for  the  purpose  of  famine 
relief.  The  ministry  of  Mr.  Whiting  was  very  short,  for  he 
was  taken  ill  with  famine  fever  and  died  on  April  25,  within 
three  weeks  of  his  arrival  in  the  province. 

For  some  time  Messrs.  Hill  and  Turner  laboured  together 
in  Pingyangfu.  At  the  end  of  July  Mr.  Turner  joined 
Dr.  Richard  in  the  capital,  but  in  the  autumn  when  the 
latter  left,  Mr.  Turner  at  Taiyuanfu  and  David  Hill  at 
Pingyangfu  remained  the  only  Protestant  missionaries  in 
the  whole  of  the  distressed  province.  Here  for  the  present 
we  must  leave  them  to  follow  the  movements  of  workers 
in  Shensi. 

The  first  journey  into  Shensi,  a  province  equal  in  area 
to  England  and  Wales,  had  been  made  by  Messrs.  Bailer  and 
King  before  the  signing  of  the  Chefoo  Convention,  as  already 
recorded.  The  second  journey  was  commenced  in  the 
autumn  of  the  same  year,  when  Messrs.  King,  Budd,  Easton, 
and  Parker  left  Hankow  on  November  8, 1876,  in  two  parties. 


no  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

From  Kingtzekwan  the  journey  was  made  overland,  and 
Mr.  King  wrote  : 

After  very  rough  journeyings,  over  roads  which  I  should  think 
would  have  broken  Mr.  Macadam's  heart,  we  arrived  at  the  capital 
Sianfu  on  December  21. 

At  this  city,  famous  as  an  ancient  capital  of  China  and 
as  the  site  of  the  Nestorian  Tablet,  the  party  divided,  Messrs. 
East  on  and  Parker  going  forward  into  Kansu,  and  the  other 
two  brethren,  sometimes  together  and  sometimes  apart, 
gave  their  time  to  extensive  itinerations  throughout  the 
province.  These  journeys  lasted  nearly  five  months,  and 
Hankow  was  reached  again  by  the  Shensi  band  on  April  4. 
But  Mr.  Budd  soon  turned  his  face  north  again,  for  in  May 
we  find  him  wending  his  way  back  to  Shensi,  this  time 
accompanied  only  by  a  Chinese  helper.  On  this  journey 
the  northern  city  of  Yenanfu  was  reached.  The  great 
famine  which  was  so  sorely  distressing  Shansi,  was  being 
felt  in  Shensi  also,  and  later  on  Messrs.  Bailer  and  Markwick 
visited  the  province  hoping  to  render  some  assistance.  But 
all  famine  relief  work  was  absolutely  forbidden  by  the 
officials.  It  was  not  until  1879  tnat  tne  ^^  station  was 
opened  in  the  province.  This  was  in  the  city  of  Hanchungf u , 
and  it  was  opened  by  Mr.  King,  who  had  gained  the  favour 
of  a  local  official  during  a  former  visit  to  the  capital. 

Messrs.  Easton  and  Parker,  whom  we  have  already  seen 
as  far  as  Sianfu  in  company  with  the  Shensi  workers,  crossed 
the  border  into  Kansu  on  December  29,  1876,  and  reached 
the  capital,  Lanchowfu,  on  January  21  of  the  following  year. 
After  visiting  a  number  of  cities  they  returned  to  Hankow, 
which  was  reached  on  April  6,  just  two  days  after  their  two 
colleagues  had  arrived  from  Shensi. 

Kansu,  however,  was  not  long  left  without  a  witness  for 
Jesus  Christ,  for  in  May  Messrs.  King  and  Easton  set  out 
once  more  for  the  far  north-west.  Under  the  blazing  sun  of 
June,  when  the  hot  winds  smote  them,  wrote  Mr.  King,  as 
though  coming  from  the  engine  room  of  a  steamer,  they 
crossed  the  Sian  Plain,  and  once  again  entered  the  neighbour- 


UNTO  THE  ENDS  OF  THE  EARTH     in 

ing  province.  Finding  the  people  friendly,  premises  were 
secured  at  Tsinchow,  which  became  the  first  headquarters 
of  the  Mission  in  the  province. 

We  must  now  turn  our  attention  elsewhere  and  follow 
the  brethren  who  travelled  into  the  western  provinces.  As 
the  year  1876  was  drawing  to  its  close,  Messrs.  Judd  and 
Broumton  commenced  their  preparations  for  a  journey 
through  Hunan  into  Kweichow.  On  the  second  day  of  the 
new  year  they  started  on  a  journey  which  was  to  last  more 
than  three  months,  and  was  to  take  them  through  the  cities 
of  Yochow,  Changteh,  Shenchow  in  Hunan,  in  which  cities 
they  engaged  without  let  or  hindrance  in  street  preaching 
and  book  selling.  They  noticed,  however,  that  in  no  place 
in  Hunan  had  the  proclamations  been  put  up,  stating  the 
right  of  foreigners  to  travel,  though  by  the  Chefoo  Convention 
these  should  have  been  posted  in  every  city.  In  other 
provinces  the  missionaries  had  found  them,  and  in  fact 
sometimes  the  foreigners  were  welcomed  as  though  they 
were  officials  who  had  been  sent  by  the  British  Govern 
ment  to  see  that  the  proclamations  were  properly  exposed. 

On  February  3,  Messrs.  Judd  and  Broumton  crossed  the 
border  into  Kweichow,  and  when  the  capital  was  reached 
premises  were  easily  secured  through  the  kind  assistance  of 
General  Mesny  of  the  Chinese  army.  As  soon  as  Mr. 
Broumton  was  settled,  Mr.  Judd  started  on  his  return  journey, 
travelling  this  time  via  Chungking,  which  city  was  reached 
in  March,  and  thence  down  the  Yangtze  back  to  Hankow. 

On  May  5  of  the  same  year,  Messrs.  George  Clarke, 
Edward  Fishe,  and  R.  J.  Landale  left  Wuchang  to  follow 
the  same  route,  through  Hunan  into  Kweichow,  taken  by 
the  preceding  party,  save  that  instead  of  passing  through 
Tung jen,  they  travelled  via  Yiianchow  and  Chenyiian.  On 
June  27,  when  they  reached  Kweiyang,  the  capital,  they  were 
warmly  welcomed  by  Mr.  Broumton  who  was,  it  will  be 
remembered,  alone. 

While  Mr.  Landale  remained  to  keep  Mr.  Broumton 
company,  Messrs,  George  Clarke  and  Edward  Fishe  set  forth 


ii2  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

on  July  5  for  the  new  province  of  Kwangsi,  where  they 
travelled  for  six  weeks,  preaching  the  Gospel  and  selling  the 
Scriptures.  Sad  to  relate,  on  this  journey  Mr.  Fishe  took 
cold,  and  shortly  after  his  return  to  the  capital  in  September, 
died,  leaving  his  widow  far  away  at  the  coast  to  mourn  her 
loss.  While  Messrs.  Landale  and  Broum.ton  remained  on  in 
the  province,  Mr.  Clarke  returned  to  Hankow,  travelling 
via  Chungking  in  Szechwan.  During  this  journey,  which 
lasted  six  months  and  two  days,  Mr.  Clarke  covered  some 
three  thousand  miles,  and  reported  that  from  the  experience 
he  had  gained  in  some  five  thousand  miles  of  travel  through 
nine  different  provinces,  he  had  found  the  people  most 
willing  to  purchase  the  Scriptures. 

There  is  now  only  one  of  the  nine  provinces  which  has 
not  been  mentioned  and  that  is  Yunnan.  It  had  been  hoped 
that  the  brethren  at  Bhamo  would  have  been  able  easily  to 
cross  the  border,  but  in  November  1876,  when  they  purposed, 
in  response  to  the  invitations  of  the  people,  to  visit  the 
Kahchens  in  their  mountain  villages,  they  were  only  per 
mitted  to  leave  Bhamo  after  having  given  a  written  promise 
to  the  effect  that  they  would  not  cross  the  frontier.  Though 
they  could  stand  upon  the  hills  in  Burma  and  look  across  the 
plains  of  China,  which  seemed  so  accessible  and  near,  this 
prohibition  of  the  British  authorities  effectually  prevented 
them.  For  long  years  to  come,  with  perhaps  one  exception, 
Yunnan  was  only  to  be  reached  by  a  lengthy  journey  from 
Shanghai. 

But  though  Yunnan  was  not  to  be  entered  from  the  west, 
it  was  open  on  the  east,  and  in  the  middle  of  January  1877, 
Mr.  McCarthy  left  Chinkiang  for  his  now  famous  journey 
across  China  through  Yunnan  into  Burma.  Following 
the  river  Yangtze,  he  reached  Chungking  on  May  i,  after 
having  passed  through  the  Ichang  riot  with  Messrs.  Cameron 
and  Nicoll.  At  Chungking  he  succeeded  in  renting  premises, 
the  first  Mission  premises  in  Szeclrwan,  where  he  left  such 
luggage  as  he  could  not  well  carry  overland.  From  thence 
he  travelled  on  foot  all  the  way  through  Kweichow  and 
Yunnan,  with  a  Chinese  Christian  as  companion  and  a 


UNTO  THE  ENDS  OF  THE  EARTH     113 

couple  of  coolies.  Bhamo,  the  terminus  of  his  journey,  was 
safely  reached  on  August  26.  Thus  was  completed  the  first 
journey  across  China  undertaken  by  a  non-official  traveller. 
During  the  whole  of  the  more  than  seven  months  he  was 
upon  the  road  he  was  never  once  asked  for  his  passport, 
nor  had  he  at  any  time  to  appeal  to  any  officer  for  help  or 
protection.  "  From  the  people  everywhere,"  he  wrote  in 
the  paper  read  before  the  Royal  Geographical  Society  in 
April  1879,  "  I  received  only  civility  and  kindness."  The 
first  difficulty  experienced  came  from  the  Indian  Government, 
for  no  sooner  had  he  reached  Bhamo  than  the  British  Agent 
forbade  him  to  return  to  China  by  the  way  he  had  come. 

Not  long  after  Mr.  McCarthy  had  gone  west,  Messrs. 
Cameron  and  Nicoll  left  Ichang  and  entered  Szechwan,  to 
take  possession  of  the  premises  rented  at  Chungking.  After 
a  short  stay  in  this  city  they  were  joined  by  an  American 
Presbyterian  missionary,  Mr.  Leaman,  and  set  forth  together 
for  the  political  capital  of  the  province,  Chengtu.  From  this 
city,  after  a  brief  stay,  they  proceeded  to  Yachow  and 
Tsingkihsien,  from  which  point  Mr.  Nicoll,  who  was  ill, 
accompanied  by  Mr.  Leaman,  returned  to  Chungking, 
leaving  Mr.  Cameron  to  go  forward  alone  to  eastern  Tibet. 
Crossing  the  border  at  Tatsienlu,  Mr.  Cameron  visited  Litang, 
reported  to  be  the  highest  city  in  the  world.  From  thence 
he  passed  on  to  Batang,  a  centre  of  great  importance,  partly 
administered  from  Peking  and  partly  from  Lhasa.  Crossing 
the  Kinsha,  or  the  upper  reaches  of  the  Yangtze,  he  con 
tinued  along  the  borders  of  Tibet  Proper  and  Assam  to  the 
last  Tibetan  town,  Atuntsu,  in  Yunnan.  Thence  via  Talifu 
he  crossed  into  Burma,  where  he  experienced  the  same  un 
willingness  on  the  part  of  the  Indian  Government  in  regard 
to  re-entering  China.  In  consequence  of  this  prohibition, 
he  proceeded  south  to  Rangoon,  and  thence  to  Canton,  where 
he  once  again  turned  his  face  inland,  journeying  through 
Kwangtung,  Kwangsi,  and  Kweichow  back  to  Yunnanfu. 
Cameron  was  indeed  the  Livingstone  of  China,  and  during 
the  next  few  years,  travelling  nearly  always  on  foot,  he  not 
only  traversed  seventeen  of  the  eighteen  provinces,  but 

I 


ii4  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

journeyed  extensively  in   Manchuria,   Mongolia,   Sinkiang, 
Eastern  Tibet,  Burma  and  Hainan. 

Thus  rapidly  have  we  sought  to  follow  some  of  those 
early  pioneers  in  their  journeys  through  the  nine  unoccupied 
provinces.  In  a  little  more  than  three  years  from  the  issue 
of  the  appeal  for  the  eighteen  men  for  these  unevangelized 
regions,  some  thirty  thousand  miles  had  been  travelled  in 
China,  and  that  when  there  were  no  railways  and  when 
twenty  or  thirty  miles  were  considered  a  good  day's  journey. 
All  these  journeys  were  taken  as  a  means  to  an  end,  as 
"  preliminary  to  localized  work,"  being  "  principally  valu 
able  as  a  preparatory  agency/'  to  quote  phrases  used  by  Mr. 
Taylor  in  his  paper  on  "  Itineration  as  an  Evangelistic 
Agency,"  read  before  the  Shanghai  Conference  in  1877. 

It  is  true  that  at  the  time  the  wisdom  of  such  widespread 
journeys  was  questioned  by  some,  but  they  were,  as  has  been 
already  indicated  in  regard  to  the  earlier  journeys,  part  of 
a  comprehensive  plan,  and  it  is  probably  sufficient  to  say 
that  in  the  light  of  subsequent  developments,  Wisdom  has 
in  this  respect  been  justified  of  her  children.  As  early  as 
the  Annual  Meeting  of  1878,  Mr.  Taylor  was  able  to  report 
that  not  only  had  all  the  nine  unoccupied  provinces  been 
visited,  but  that  twelve  missionaries  had  already  settled  in, 
or  been  designated  to,  four  of  them.  In  these  previously 
unoccupied  provinces  twelve  stations  and  out-stations  had 
been  opened,  twenty  Chinese  helpers  were  already  at  work, 
and  more  than  forty  converts  had  been  gathered. 

SUMMARY  OF  EARLY  JOURNEYS 

MEN 

Burma.          Stevenson,,  Soltau,  Adams,  and  Harvey,  to  Bhamo. 
M'Carthy  and  Cameron,  Bhamo  to  Rangoon. 

Kansu.  Easton  and  Parker,  first  journey  to  Lanchow. 

King  and  Easton,  second  journey  to  Lanchow. 

Sliensi.  Bailer  and  King,  first  journey  to  Hinganfu. 

King  and  Budd,  second  journey  to  Sianfu. 
Budd  alone,  third  journey  to  Yenanfu. 


UNTO  THE  ENDS  OF  THE  EARTH 


Shansi.  Turner  and  James,  first  journey  to  Pingyangfu. 

Turner  and  James,  second  journey  to  Taiyuanfu. 
Turner  alone,  third  journey  to  Taiyuanfu. 

Honan.  Henry  Taylor,  first  journey  to  Runing  and  Nanyangfu. 

Henry  Taylor,  second  journey  to  Kaifeng  and  Honanfu. 
Henry  Taylor  and    George    Clarke,    third    journey   to 
Kweitehfu. 

Szechwan.      McCarthy,  through  to  Burma, 

Cameron  and  Nicoll,  to  Chungking,  etc. 
Cameron  alone,  to  Burma. 

Hunan  and    Judd  and  Broumton,  to  Kweiyangfu. 
Kweichow.    Judd  alone,  back  via  Szechwan. 

E.  Fishe,  G.  Clarke  and  R.  J.  Landale  to  Kweiyang. 

Clark  alone,  back  via  Szechwan. 

Cameron. 

Yunnan.        McCarthy,  through  to  Burma. 
Cameron,  through  to  Burma. 

Kwangsi.       E.  Fishe  and  G.  Clarke,  from  and  to  Kweiyang. 
Cameron. 

Anhwei.         Duncan  and  Harvey,  several  journeys. 

McCarthy,  Bailer,  and  Pearse,  several  journeys. 
King,  Cameron,  Randle,  Clarke,  several  journeys. 

Kiangsu.        Duncan  and  Harvey,  to  and  from  Tsingkiangpu,  etc. 
Harvey  alone,  Haichow,  etc. 
And  many  others. 

Chekiang.       Duncan  and  Harvey,  Stott,  and  many  others. 
Kwangtung.   Cameron. 


XVIII 
PYRLAND  ROAD 

WHEN  Mr.  Taylor  had  issued  his  appeal  for  the  eighteen 
workers  for  the  nine  unoccupied  provinces,  it  soon  became 
evident  that  further  help  and  enlarged  premises  for  the 
Home  Department  were  necessary.  Messrs.  R.  H.  Hill  and 
Henry  Soltau,  from  their  appointment  in  1872, l  had  nobly 
served  the  work  as  Honorary  Secretaries,  but  in  April  1875 
Mr.  Soltau  sailed  for  Burma,  as  one  of  the  eighteen,  in  com 
pany  with  Mr.  Stevenson  to  open  Bhamo.  In  response  to 
the  appeal  more  than  sixty  candidates  applied,  and  of  these 
about  thirty  came  to  spend  longer  or  shorter  periods  of 
study  at  Pyrland  Road.  To  accommodate  these  No.  4  was 
secured  in  addition  to  No.  6,  and  early  in  the  summer  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Benjamin  Broomhall  came  to  reside  at  No.  5, 
opposite  (moving  subsequently  into  No.  2),  to  assist  in  the 
work.  For  the  next  twenty  years — destined  to  witness  such 
remarkable  expansion  in  the  whole  work — the  headquarters 
of  the  Mission  in  Great  Britain  remained  at  this  centre, 
and  the  name  of  Pyrland  Road  thus  became  inseparably 
associated  with  the  C.I.M. 

The  friendship  between  Hudson  Taylor  and  Benjamin 
Broomhall,  his  brother-in-law,  dated  back  to  when  they 
were  lads  in  their  teens  at  Barnsley.  While  this  is  not  the 
place  for  personal  details,  one  or  two  brief  extracts  from 
letters  may  be  allowed  to  show  how  Mr.  Broomhall  was 
drawn  into  the  work.  Within  a  few  days  of  Mr.  Taylor's 

1  Continued  from  Chapter  XIII.  p.  85. 
116 


PYRLAND  ROAD  117 

landing  in  Shanghai,  he  wrote  in  a  long  letter  of  eight  pages, 
dated  March  12,  1854  : 

Oh,  my  dear  brother,  give  yourself  entirely  to  the  work  of  God. 
I  trust  you  will ;  I  hope  you  will.  We  want  more  helpers,  men  of 
sincere  piety,  men  of  earnest  zeal,  yet  men  of  caution  and  prudence. 
We  want  men  who  love  God  supremely  and  souls  next.  We  want  men 
not  only  willing  to  do,  but  also  to  suffer  the  will  of  God  ;  men  of  faith, 
who  can  afford  to  despise  the  world  and  look  forward  to  the  sur 
passing  glory  in  store.  Oh,  that  you  may  be  such  an  one  !  Oh  pray 
for  me,  my  dear  brother,  and  come  and  help  me. 

On  December  16  of  the  same  year  he  wrote  again,  adding 
at  the  close  of  his  letter  : 

When  you  have  done  with  the  letter  perhaps  you  will  let  my  parents 
and  sisters  see  it,  and  thus  I  shall  make  one  account  do  for  both — an 
expedient  you  yourself  will  probably  adopt  before  you  have  been  with 
me  a  twelvemonth — for  I  feel  assured  you  will  join  me  sooner  or  later. 

For  long  Benjamin  Broomhall  and  Amelia  Hudson  Taylor, 
his  future  wife,  were  exercised  as  to  whether  it  were  not 
God's  will  for  them  to  go  to  China.  Had  Hudson  Taylor's 
sister  had  her  way  it  would  have  been  China,  and 
"  sooner  "  rather  than  "  later,"  but  God  guided  otherwise, 
and  Benjamin  Broomhall,  who  wrote  in  1856  :  "  I  give 
Hudson  credit  for  moving  depths  of  feeling  in  my  heart  which 
before  I  had  not  been  conscious  of,"  was  gaining  a  wide 
knowledge  both  of  men  and  affairs,  which  was  to  fit  him  for 
valuable  service  to  the  Mission  in  later  days. 

When  Mr.  Henry  Soltau  sailed  for  Burma,  Mr.  Benjamin 
Broomhall  carne,  with  Mr.  William  Soltau,  to  assist  Mr. 
Richard  Hill  in  the  work  in  London.  In  the  early  days  of 
1879  Mr.  Taylor,  in  view  of  his  approaching  departure  for 
China,  went  more  thoroughly  into  the  organization  of  the 
Home  Department,  and  on  February  5,  1879,  to  quote  the 
Minutes  of  the  London  Council : 

Mr.  Broomhall  was  appointed  General  Secretary,  with  the  distinct 
understanding  on  the  part  of  Mr.  Taylor  and  the  Council  and  himself 
that  he  is  considered  responsible  for  the  general  superintendence  and 
conduct  of  the  Home  work  of  the  Mission. 

At  the  same  meeting  the  question  of  the  Home  Director- 


n8  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

ship  of  the  Mission  was  discussed,  and  at  the  next  meeting, 
held  five  days  later,  Mr.  Theodore  Howard,  who  had  been  a 
Member  of  the  Council  from  its  commencement  in  1872  and 
Chairman  since  October  5,  1875,  was  asked  to  accept  the 
post  of  Director  of  the  Home  work  of  the  Mission. 

"  Mr.  Howard/'  to  quote  the  Minutes  again,  "  consented  to  accept 
this  position,  and  was  thereupon  appointed  and  authorized  by  Mr. 
Taylor,  with  the  cordial  approval  of  the  Council,  to  act  in  that  capacity 
during  Mr.  Taylor's  absence  in  China,  and  jointly  with  him  when  he  is 
in  England." 

It  must  also  be  mentioned  that  it  was  arranged,  in  the 
event  of  Mr.  Taylor's  death,  should  no  other  appointment 
on  the  Field  have  been  made,  that  Mr.  Howard  should,  for 
the  time  being,  act  as  Director  of  the  whole  work.  In  ac 
cepting  this  position  Mr.  Howard  generously  had  it  recorded 
that : 

He  and  the  Council  generally  wished  it  to  be  understood  by  Mr. 
Broomhall  that  his  responsibility  was  not  in  any  way  diminished,  nor 
the  relation  of  his  fellow-workers  to  himself  altered,  but  that  in  Mr. 
Howard  he  would  have  one  to  whom  he  could  refer  in  any  circumstances 
requiring  direction. 

Passing  from  these  references  to  the  personnel  of  the 
Home  Department,  it  should  be  recorded  that  with  the 
entry  upon  this  new  stage  in  the  Mission's  development 
the  official  organ  of  the  Mission  was  also  changed.  In  March 
1875  the  Occasional  Paper,  which  had  been  commenced  early 
in  1866,  before  the  sailing  of  the  Lammermuir  party,  was 
published  for  the  last  time  ;  and  in  the  following  July  the 
first  copy  of  China's  Millions  appeared,  which,  as  a  monthly 
magazine,  has  been  published  regularly  ever  since.  In  the 
following  October,  at  the  same  Council  Meeting  as  that  at 
which  Mr.  Howard  was  appointed  Home  Director,  Mr.  Taylor 
read  the  first  draft  of  a  paper  entitled  The  Principles  and 
Practice  of  the  China  Inland  Mission,  which  it  was  felt  desir 
able  that  all  joining  the  Mission  should  henceforth  cordially 
approve.  This  paper  still  remains  the  official  statement  of 
the  Mission's  Principles  and  Practice. 

It  will  thus  be  recognized  that  with  the  year  1875  the 


PYRLAND  ROAD  119 

Mission  entered  upon  a  new  and  distinct  period  of  its  history 
both  at  home  and  abroad.  In  China  the  more  experimental 
stage  of  work  in  the  nearer  provinces  passed  to  that  which 
was  to  embrace  within  its  purview  the  whole  of  unevangel- 
ized  China  ;  while  at  home  the  same  period  was  to  witness 
the  transition  from  the  voluntary  and  honorary  stage  to  that 
of  a  more  regularly  organized  department. 

This  entry  upon  a  larger  ministry,  with  its  enlarged 
responsibilities,  was  not  without  its  special  trials  of  faith, 
associated,  as  trials  ever  have  been,  with  special  encourage 
ments  and  deliverances.  Of  these  trials  and  deliverances 
references  can  only  be  made  to  one  or  two. 

On  the  morning  of  May  24,  1875,  during  the  period  of 
Mr.  Taylor's  illness,  when  the  few  friends  at  Pyrland  Road 
met  for  prayer,  Mr.  Taylor  remarked  that  it  was  necessary  to 
ask  God  to  remind  His  wealthy  stewards  of  the  need  of  the 
work.  Adding  up  the  amounts  received  from  May  4  to  24, 
and  finding  it  only  come  to  £68  :  6  :  2,  he  said  :  "  This  is 
nearly  £235  less  than  our  average  expenditure  in  China  for 
three  weeks.  Let  us  remind  the  Lord  of  it."  They  did  so, 
and  that  evening  the  postman  brought  a  letter  which  con 
tained  a  cheque  for  £235  '.7:9,  which  was  to  be  acknow 
ledged  as  "  From  the  sale  of  Plate."  a  "  Dear  readers," 
wrote  Mr.  Taylor  in  China  s  Millions,  when  reporting  this 
incident,  "  '  trust  in  Him  at  all  times/  you  will  never  have 
cause  to  regret  it." 

With  the  year  1878  the  whole  question  of  finances  had  to 
be  faced  in  a  new  way.  In  the  Report  for  two  years,  pre 
sented  at  the  Annual  Meetings  of  that  year,  it  was  mentioned 
that  the  funds  received  during  the  two  years  under  review 
did  not  represent  the  expenditure  of  that  period,  for  the 
special  sum  of  £4000,  mentioned  in  the  Appeal  for  the 
Eighteen,  had  been  absorbed  in  the  pioneer  work  for  which 
it  had  been  originally  given.  These  workers,  therefore, 
now  came  upon  the  General  Funds  ;  and  moreover,  during 
these  two  years  twenty-one  new  workers  had  joined  the 
Mission,  bringing  up  the  total  to  seventy-two,  while  there 

1  We  are  permitted  now  to  state  that  this  came  from  the  late  Lord 
Radstock. 


120  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

had  been  a  proportionate  increase  in  Chinese  helpers  and  in 
new  stations.  What,  then,  should  be  the  Mission's  attitude 
towards  the  number  of  candidates  who  were  ready  to  go 
forward  ? 

"  Well,  this  question/'  said  Mr  Taylor  at  the  same  Annual  Meeting, 
"  came  again  to  us  anew  during  the  present  year.  From  the  Report 
which  you  have  heard  you  have  learned  that  the  money  which  God 
sent  in  answer  to  prayer  for  pioneer  work  in  a  number  of  unevangelized 
provinces — some  thousands  of  pounds — has  been  used  up  and  absorbed 
in  the  work  of  the  last  two  years,  and  the  question  might  have  been 
raised,  '  With  a  current  income  not  equal  within  a  thousand  or  two 
thousand  pounds  to  the  expenses  of  the  Mission,  is  the  project  of 
sending  forth  twenty  or  thirty  additional  missionaries  at  all  a  prudent 
thing,  even  if  men  and  women  who  appear  to  be  suitable  are  found  ?  ' 
Well,  we  have  looked  the  thing  in  the  face,  dear  friends  ;  and  this  is 
the  conclusion  to  which  we  have  come,  that  with  the  current  income 
of  the  Mission  we  have  nothing  to  do,  but  with  GOD  we  have  every 
thing  to  do  ;  that  we  are  not  going  to  send  out  twenty  or  thirty  mission 
aries,  or  one,  but  we  are  going  to  ask  God  to  send  twenty  or  thirty 
missionaries  ;  and  if  He  sends  twenty  or  thirty  devoted  missionaries, 
He  is  just  as  able  to  support  them  as  He  has  proved  faithful  and  loving 
in  supplying  those  who  went  previously.  .  .  .  We  feel  that  if  God  by 
His  grace  will  only  keep  our  brothers  and  sisters  faithful  to  Him,  that 
ensures  everything." 

Acting  upon  the  principle  of  faith  referred  to  in  the 
foregoing  passage,  new  candidates  were  accepted  and  sailed 
for  China,  and  the  Mission  was  cast  more  than  ever  upon  God 
to  supply  the  constantly  recurring  wants.  On  Friday, 
February  21,  1879,  tne  Mission  was  unable  to  make  any 
remittance  to  China,  and  there  were  no  funds  in  hand  for  the 
outfits  and  passages  of  some  of  the  party  expected  to  sail 
from  Marseilles  on  March  9.  "  Under  these  circumstances," 
wrote  Mr.  Taylor  in  a  little  article  on  Trust  in  Him  at  all 
times, 

it  was  remembered  with  thankfulness  how  frequently — nay,  almost 
invariably — God  has  given  special  tokens  of  His  readiness  to  help 
about  the  time  of  a  departure  of  new  missionaries ;  and  at  the  daily 
Prayer  Meeting  from  twelve  to  one  o'clock,  with  thanksgiving  and 
praise  for  past  mercies,  God  was  asked  again  to  show  Himself  gracious, 
not  only  in  supplying  present  and  immediate  needs,  but  also  in  en 
couraging  the  hearts  of  His  young  servants,  who  were  casting  them- 


PYRLAND  ROAD  121 

selves  upon  His  faithfulness  for  life,  for  health,  for  food,  for  raiment, 
and  for  all  the  grace  and  help  needed  in  His  service.  .  .  .  With  great 
joy  and  rest  of  heart  these  petitions  were  left  with  Him.  On  Saturday 
morning,  February  22,  the  answering  message  came  by  the  first  post. 
One  of  the  letters  contained  a  cheque  for  £600.  Our  hearts  were 
gladdened,  our  faith  was  strengthened ;  not  only  in  private,  but  at 
our  weekly  Prayer  Meeting  thanksgiving  and  praise  were  offered  to 
God ;  and  hearty  prayer  went  up  that  He  would  abundantly  bless 
the  munificent  donor  and  every  member  of  his  household.  We  can 
testify  from  oft-repeated  experience  that  it  is  blessed  indeed  to  "  trust 
in  Him  at  all  times,"  and  would  exhort  all  His  tried  ones  to  "  pour 
out  their  hearts  before  Him,  for  the  living  God  verily  is  a  refuge  for 


us. 


»  i 


1  Home  department  continued  in  Chapter  XXXIII.  p.  220. 


XIX 
PIONEERS  IN  WOMEN'S  WORK 

THE  difficulties  in  the  way  of  women's  work  in  China  and 
the  remarkable  manner  in  which  these  have  been  overcome 
have  hardly  been  sufficiently  realized.  In  the  days  of  Dr. 
Morrison  the  Chinese  regulations  which  controlled  Foreign 
intercourse  rigorously  excluded  even  the  wives  of  merchants 
from  residence  at  Canton.  Twice  in  the  year  1830  the 
Chinese  threatened  to  stop  all  trade  at  Canton,  in  order  to 
enforce  the  immediate  departure  of  a  few  ladies  who  had 
come  over  on  a  visit  from  Macao.  With  their  policy  of 
exclusion,  the  Chinese  were  shrewd  enough  to  see  that  where 
the  wives  were  allowed  to  come  the  men  became  residents 
rather  than  visitors.  With  the  cessation  of  the  East  India 
Company's  charter  and  the  subsequent  war,  these  regula 
tions  naturally  had  to  give  way,  so  far  as  the  Ports  were 
concerned. 

The  first  single  lady  to  go  to  the  Far  East  was  Miss 
Newell  (subsequently  Mrs.  Gutzlaff),  who  was  sent  out  by 
the  Society  for  promoting  Female  Education  in  China,  India, 
and  the  East  in  1827.  As  China  was  closed  at  that  time,  she 
settled  at  Malacca,  where  she  conducted  five  Schools  for 
Girls.  The  first  single  lady  to  enter  China  Proper  was  Miss 
Aldersey,  a  member  of  the  Committee  of  the  same  Society, 
who  went  out  to  Malacca  at  her  own  charges  in  1832,  and 
reached  Hongkong  in  1842,  on  the  very  day  that  peace  was 
signed.  Two  years  later  she  opened  at  Ningpo  the  first 
Girls'  School  in  China,  in  which  work  she  was  subsequently 
joined  by  Miss  Maria  Dyer,  who  was  married  to  Mr.  Hudson 

122 


1.  MRS.  GEORGE  STOTT. 

4.  Miss  CRICKMAY. 

7.  MRS.   GEORGE   KING 

(nee  SNOW). 


2.   MRS.  F.  W.  BALLER.  3. 

5.   MRS.  HUDSON  TAYLOR  (nee  FAULDING).       6. 
8.  Miss  E.  WILSON.  9. 


Miss  DESGRAZ. 
Miss  CELIA  HOI;NE. 
MRS.     S.     CLAKKE 
(nee  FAUSSETT). 


All  the  women  who  first  entered  the  nine  unoccupied  inland  provinces  are  in  these  Groups. 
For  Biographical  details  use  Index,  p.  375,  and  Summary  of  Early  Journeys  on  p.  132. 

Between  pp.  12-.M23. 


1.   MRS.  F.  W.  BKOUMTOX.       2.   Mus.  J.  J.  MEADOWS.  3.   MRS.  G.  PARKER. 

4.  MRS.  HENRY  HUNT.  5.  Miss  M.  MURRAY.  »>.  MRS.  G.  NICOLL. 

7.   Miss  KIUD.  8.   MRS.  GEORGE  CLARKE  (nee  ROSSIER).         9.   Miss  C.  KERR. 

All  the  women  wlio  first  entered  the  nine  unoccupied  inland  provinces  are  in  these  Groups. 

For  Biographical  details  use  Index,  p.  375,  and  Summary  of  Early  Journeys  on  p.  132. 

lletiveen  pp.  122-123 


PIONEERS  IN  WOMEN'S  WORK  123 

Taylor  in  January  1858.  Miss  Lydia  Fay  of  the  Protestant 
Episcopal  Mission,  who  went  out  to  China  in  1850,  seems  to 
have  been  the  first  single  lady  sent  out  from  America. 

Of  necessity  the  beginnings  of  women's  work  in  China 
were  slow.  When  the  Lammermuw  party  sailed  in  1866 
there  were  only  fourteen  unmarried  lady  missionaries  in 
China,  and  seven  of  these  were  located  at  Hongkong,  a 
British  Crown  Colony  ;  yet  in  that  one  party  there  were  six 
single  lady  workers.  These  ladies,  arid  others  who  followed 
them,  settled  not  only  at  Hangchow,  but,  as  the  preceding 
chapters  have  shown,  at  other  centres  inland  such  as  Nanking, 
Yangchow  and  Anking.1  In  the  face  of  much  criticism  and 
of  many  difficulties  the  C.I.M.  was  privileged  not  only  to 
open  many  of  the  earliest  stations  in  the  interior  of  China, 
but  also  to  send  the  first  women  workers  to  nine  of  the  inland 
provinces.  These  were  Anhwei  and  all  of  the  nine  unoccupied 
provinces  except  Kwangsi. 

The  call  for  lady  workers  to  enter  the  first  of  these  formerly 
unoccupied  provinces  came  through  the  terrible  famine  of 
1877  and  1878,  which  affected  at  least  thirty  millions  of 
people.  When  following  the  pioneer  journeys  recorded  in  a 
previous  chapter,  this  famine  has  been  mentioned,  but  its 
awful  magnitude  calls  for  fuller  details  now.  In  1877  the 
autumn  crops  throughout  the  whole  of  Shansi  and  the 
greater  part  of  Chihli,  Honan,  and  Shensi  failed.  Refugees 
poured  down  to  the  coast,  and  one  Consular  report  states 
that  in  one  famine  camp  it  was  not  an  uncommon  event  for 
from  four  hundred  to  six  hundred  persons  to  die  in  a  single 
night.  The  famine-stricken  people  stripped  the  bark  off  the 
trees  for  food,  killed  their  beasts  of  burden,  and  in  some 
cases  resorted  to  cannibalism.  So  many  were  the  dead  that 
not  infrequently  they  were  buried  uncoffined  in  pits. 

Strenuous  efforts  were  made  to  send  supplies  to  the 
interior,  but  to  the  most  afflicted  areas  there  were  no  water 
ways  and  only  the  roughest  mountain  roads.  Along  these 

1  Two  unmarried  ladies  of  the  American  Presbyterian  Mission  started 
work  at  Sayow,  a  village  about  100  miles  from  Tungchow  in  Shantung, 
in  1870. 


124  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

the  most  frightful  disorder  reigned.  Broken  carts,  scattered 
grain  bags,  dying  men  and  animals  often  blocked  the  way, 
and  the  boldness  of  the  wolves  told  too  plainly  some  of  the 
terrors  of  the  story.  So  far  as  reliable  records  are  known, 
no  such  appalling  calamity  has  fallen  upon  any  country, 
and  varying  estimates  state  that  from  nine  to  thirteen 
million  people  died. 

To  alleviate  in  some  small  measure  the  terrible  distress, 
nearly  half  a  million  dollars  were  contributed  from  abroad, 
either  through  commercial  or  missionary  channels.  Some 
thirty  Protestant  missionaries  volunteered  for  famine  relief 
work,  of  whom  four  died.  A  number  of  Roman  Catholic 
missionaries  also  assisted.  In  Shansi  Timothy  Richard  of 
the  B.M.S.,  David  Hill  of  the  W.M.S.,  Turner  of  the  C.I.M., 
MTlvaine  and  Whiting,  both  of  the  A.P.M.,  laboured,  the 
last  of  whom  soon  died  of  famine  fever.1  At  first  the  Chinese 
authorities  were  hostile  to  the  thought  of  famine  relief,  but 
through  the  influence  of  the  Grand  Secretary,  Li  Hung-chang, 
and  H.E.  Tseng  Kwo-chuan,  the  Governor  of  Shansi,  this 
difficulty  was  overcome  locally,  though  in  other  provinces 
the  officials  positively  refused  the  assistance  actually  brought 
to  them. 

In  Taiyuanfu  Dr.  Timothy  Richard  began  to  interest 
himself  in  the  orphans,  and  with  the  Governor's  approval 
commenced  systematic  relief  work  among  these  children 
and  the  widows.  By  September  1878  as  many  as  744  names 
were  enrolled  under  the  superintendency  of  Mr.  Turner,  and 
by  January  1879  the  numbers  had  risen  to  822  orphans  and 
334  widows  and  aged  persons. 

The  needs  of  the  destitute  children  early  burdened  Mr. 
Taylor's  heart,  and  though  he  had  only  arrived  in  England  at 
the  close  of  December  1877,  after  an  absence  from  wife  and 
children  of  over  fifteen  months,  he  contemplated,  if  possible, 
a  speedy  return  to  China  to  organize  some  special  work.  As 
circumstances,  however,  prevented  this,  early  in  the  new 
year  he  proposed  to  Mrs.  Taylor  that  possibly  she  might  go 

1  The  Chinese  Governor  offered  a  handsome  gift  towards  sending 
Mr.  Whiting's  body  home,  but  when  he  found  the  foreigners  preferred  to 
bury  their  friend  locally,  he  gave  a  piece  of  land  outside  the  city  of 
Taiyuanfu  for  a  foreign  cemetery. 


PIONEERS  IN  WOMEN'S  WORK  125 

out  for  this  purpose.  Such  a  suggestion,  so  soon  after  they 
had  been  reunited,  came  as  a  painful  shock  at  first,  and  in 
some  perplexity  of  mind  she  determined  to  seek  from  God 
some  "  Gideon's  fleece  "  to  confirm  her  in  her  duty.  There 
were  three  things  necessary  ere  she  could  possibly  sail  for 
China  :  her  outfit,  her  passage  money,  and  some  provision  for 
her  children.  She  therefore  asked  God  that  if  it  were  His 
will  that  she  should  go,  He  would  send  her  two  separate  gifts 
of  money,  one  for  her  outfit,  and  another  sum  of  £50,  neither 
more  nor  less,  for  her  passage  expenses,  and  also  that  God 
would  guide  to  some  satisfactory  arrangement  for  the 
children.  The  two  gifts  for  outfit  and  passage  were  received 
just  as  asked,  but  there  was  the  far  more  important  matter 
of  the  children's  welfare.  Mrs.  Broomhall,  her  sister-in-law, 
was  at  this  time  away  from  London,  but  hearing  from  her 
husband  that  Mrs.  Taylor  thought  of  going  out  to  China  to 
care  for  the  orphans,  she  said  aloud  to  her  sister,  with  whom 
she  was  staying,  "  If  Jenny  is  called  to  go  to  China,  then  I 
am  called  to  care  for  her  children."  Upon  returning  to 
London,  she  made  the  offer,  although  she  had  ten  children 
of  her  own,  and  remembers  to  this  day  the  awe  with  which 
she  realized,  when  Mrs.  Taylor  replied,  "  Then  that  settles 
it,"  that  her  decision  had  such  momentous  consequences. 

The  decision  thus  made  was  strikingly  confirmed  by  the 
arrival  of  a  thousand  pounds  while  the  Valedictory  Com 
munion  Service  was  being  held.  In  a  note  accompanying 
this  handsome  donation,  the  donor  wrote  : 

Please  enter  it  anonymously.  It  does  not  represent  any  super 
abundance  of  wealth,  as  my  business  affairs  will  miss  it.  But  if  you, 
for  Christ's  sake,  can  separate,  I  cannot  give  less  than  this. 

With  these  tokens  of  God's  favour,  on  May  2,  1878,  Mrs. 
Hudson  Taylor,  with  a  party  of  seven  new  workers,  among 
whom  we  may  mention  Messrs.  Dorward  and  Samuel  Clarke, 
bade  farewell  to  their  loved  ones  at  home. 

On  reaching  China,  Mrs.  Taylor  was  joined  by  Miss 
Home  and  Miss  Crickmay,  both  of  whom  had  been  about 
two  years  in  the  field,  and  under  the  able  escort  of  Mr. 
Bailer,  Taiyuanfu,  the  capital  of  Shansi,  was  reached  on 


126  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

October  23.  This  was  the  first  time  that  missionary  ladies 
had  travelled  so  far  from  a  Treaty  Port.  They  were  soon 
followed  by  two  other  ladies,  by  Mrs.  James  in  November 
and  by  Mrs.  Timothy  Richard  shortly  afterwards,  both  of 
whom  came  with  their  husbands  when  they  were  returning 
to  the  province. 

No  trouble  was  experienced  in  renting  premises,  and  a 
number  of  girls  were  received  by  the  ladies,  and  Dr.  Richard 
formed  some  destitute  boys  into  a  school.  The  work  among 
these  orphans  and  refugees  proved  for  several  reasons  more 
difficult  than  had  been  anticipated,  and  was  subsequently 
abandoned  for  more  ordinary  methods.  But  the  work  with 
all  its  difficulties  had  not  been  in  vain.  The  Chinese  Ambas 
sador  at  the  Mansion  House  in  London  paid  a  warm  tribute  to 
the  charity  and  tenderness  which  had  been  manifested  in  the 
relief  given,  the  influence  of  which,  he  said,  would  be  per 
manent  and  do  far  more  than  political  action  ever  could  do 
to  ingratiate  the  foreigner  in  the  esteem  and  regard  of  the 
Chinese. 

But  apart  altogether  from  the  immediate  results  of  the 
work  done,  the  fact  that  it  had  been  proved  that  there  was  no 
insuperable  obstacle  in  the  way  of  lady  missionaries  residing 
in  Inland  China  was  in  itself  a  subject  of  great  rejoicing. 

"  None  but  those/'  wrote  Mr.  Taylor,  "  who  know  what  it  is 
personally  to  pray  and  wait  and  watch  for  months,  and  it  may  be  for 
years,  for  the  opening  of  hearts  closed  against  Christ,  or  of  doors 
closed  to  the  Gospel,  can  fully  sympathize  with  the  joy  with  which 
we  have  announced  from  time  to  time  the  opening  of  province  after 
province,  first  to  itineration,  and  then,  in  the  case  of  some,  to  localized 
efforts.  But  if  such  was  our  joy  when  our  brethren  were  able  to  go 
so  far  inland,  what  grateful  thanks  are  due  to  God  as  we  record  the 
safe  arrival  of  our  first  party  of  missionary  sisters  at  the  capital  of  one 
of  the  nine  so  lately  unevangelized  provinces." 

The  neighbouring  province  of  Shensi  was  the  next  one  to 
be  entered  by  lady  workers.  Early  in  the  summer  of  1879 
Mr.  George  King,  who  had  been  pioneering  in  the  far  north 
west,  was  married  to  Miss  Emily  Snow,  and  towards  the  end 
of  August  the  newly  married  couple  commenced  their  long 
journey  up  the  Han  river,  with  Kansu  in  view.  Hanchungfu, 


PIONEERS  IN  WOMEN'S  WORK  127 

a  most  important  prefectural  city  in  Shensi,  having  many- 
large  and  well-populated  villages  around  it,  was  reached  in 
November,  after  a  safe  and  quick  journey.  As  this  city 
appeared  a  most  inviting  centre  for  work,  and  a  good  half 
way  station  for  Tsinchow  Kansu,  whither  they  hoped  to  go 
in  the  spring,  Mr.  King  determined  to  attempt  to  rent 
premises.  The  opposition  of  a  Hunan  military  mandarin 
at  first  threatened  to  frustrate  this  project,  but  when  this 
official  recognized  the  foreign  visitor  as  one  whom  he  had 
met  before  at  Sianfu,  his  opposition  gave  place  to  a  friendship 
which  proved  invaluable  and  helpful. 

With  Hanchungfu  opened,  Miss  Wilson,  a  lady  in  middle 
life  who  at  her  own  charges  had  j  oined  the  Mission  four  years 
previously,  and  Miss  Faussett,  on  March  i,  1880,  set  out 
from  Wuchang,  accompanied  only  by  two  Chinese  Christians, 
with  the  intention  of  holding  the  fort  at  Hanchungfu,  while 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  King  went  forward  to  Kansu.  This  journey 
of  a  thousand  miles  was  a  particularly  courageous  under 
taking,  and  was  fully  justified  by  the  results,  for  with  no  other 
contretemps  but  the  carrying  off  of  some  of  their  wearing 
apparel  by  thieves,  Hanchungfu  was  safely  reached  on 
Friday,  May  21.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  King  did  not  go  forward  as 
expected,  for  a  most  encouraging  work  had  already  begun  to 
spring  up.  As  early  as  the  last  Sunday  in  August  1880 
three  Christians  were  set  apart  as  Deacons,  two  of  these 
being  the  converts  from  Wuchang  who  had  accompanied  the 
ladies.  Five  new  members  were  received  on  the  same 
occasion,  and  by  the  close  of  the  year  the  Church  member 
ship  had  risen  to  thirty.  This  was  certainly  rapid  progress, 
but  that  it  was  not  hasty  is  proved  by  the  fact  that  Mr. 
Easton,  writing  as  late  as  1907,  after  many  years'  residence 
at  the  same  station,  said  : 

Many  of  these  converts  are  standing  to-day  and  have  become  our 
best  Christians  ;  some  of  them  are  the  Elders  and  Deacons  of  the 
Church  now. 

The  two  single  ladies  early  ventured  out  into  the  surround 
ing  towns  and  villages  of  this  populous  region  and  reported 
that  "  nothing  could  be  kinder  than  our  reception  every- 


128  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

where."  But  upon  this  flourishing  station  the  shadow  of  a 
great  sorrow  was  soon  to  fall,  for  in  May  1881  Mrs.  King 
died  of  typhus  fever.  Short  as  had  been  her  ministry,  to  her 
had  been  given  the  privilege  of  being  the  first  foreign  woman 
to  enter  Shensi,  and  the  first  to  lay  down  her  life  on  behalf  of 
its  evangelization. 

Strict  chronological  order  would  require  that  we  should 
now  turn  our  thoughts  to  another  part  of  China,  but  before 
doing  so  we  will  conclude  the  story  of  these  north-western 
provinces.  On  May  3,  1880,  little  more  than  a  fortnight 
before  the  Misses  Wilson  and  Faussett  had  reached 
Hanchungfu,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  George  Parker  left  Hankow  with 
the  far  north-west  in  view.  Much  time  was  spent  upon  this 
journey  in  temporary  work  at  several  centres,  and  then, 
after  a  brief  stay  at  Hanchungfu,  they  set  forward  once  again, 
accompanied  this  time  by  Miss  Wilson.  In  January  1881 
Tsinchow  in  Kansu  was  reached,  and  here  the  travellers 
made  their  home. 

We  have  thus  briefly  followed  the  way  in  which  the  three 
northern  provinces  of  Shansi,  Shensi,  and  Kansu  had  been 
entered  and  permanently  occupied  by  lady  workers.  It  was 
only  in  the  autumn  of  1876  that  six  young  men  pioneers  had 
set  out  to  visit  for  the  first  time  these  then  unoccupied 
provinces  ;  yet  by  the  first  month  of  1881  four  stations 
had  been  opened  with  seventeen  resident  workers.  Each 
province  now  had  a  resident  married  missionary,  and  the 
other  workers  were  seven  men  and  four  single  ladies.  In 
the  schools  established  there  were  more  than  seventy 
boarders,  apart  from  day  scholars,  while  from  sixty  to 
seventy  converts  had  professed  their  faith  in  Christ, 
though  all  of  these  had  not  been  baptized. 

It  is  now  time  to  follow  the  progress  of  events  as  they 
concern  the  western  provinces,  and  to  do  this  we  must  go 
back  to  the  autumn  of  1879.  Not  long  after  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
King  had  left  Hankow  for  Shensi,  two  newly  married  couples, 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  George  Clarke  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Nicoll,  left  for 
the  far  west,  travelling  by  boat  up  the  Yangtze  Gorges  as  far 


PIONEERS  IN  WOMEN'S  WORK  129 

as  Chungking.  This  journey,  trying  to  the  nerve  under  the 
best  conditions,  was  not  free  from  mishap.  As  has  so 
frequently  happened,  the  boat  was  holed  upon  a  rock,  and 
the  travellers  experienced  the  discomforts  of  an  impromptu 
camp  life  upon  the  banks  of  the  river  in  rainy  weather  and 
with  soaked  goods.  Chungking,  however,  was  reached  in 
January  1880,  and  here  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Nicoll  entered  upon 
settled  station  life,  while  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Clarke  went  forward 
overland  to  Kweiyang.  This  latter  city  was  reached  in 
February,  after  a  journey  which  proved  more  trying  to  Mrs. 
Clarke  than  the  boat  journey,  through  the  carelessness  of  the 
chair-bearers  when  travelling  over  the  precipitous  mountain 
roads.  Thus  for  the  first  time  lady  workers  entered  and 
settled  in  the  provinces  of  Szechwan  and  Kweichow. 

Such  pioneering  work  for  ladies  had  trials  far  greater  than 
those  connected  with  the  discomforts  and  possible  dangers 
of  travelling.  It  involved  distant  separation  from  the  com 
panionship  of  their  own  country-women — Mrs.  Nicoll,  for 
instance,  never  saw  a  foreign  sister  for  two  full  years — 
and  separation  from  all  medical  help,  however  urgent  the 
need ;  there  was  also  close  contact  with  the  evils  of 
heathenism,  and  frequently  the  weariness  inseparable  from 
the  curiosity  of  the  people  among  whom  they  dwelt.  At 
Chungking,  for  instance,  the  Chinese  women  simply  flocked 
to  see  their  foreign  sister.  When  the  Chinese  New  Year  set 
in  the  Mission  premises  were  fairly  besieged,  there  being  as 
many  as  five  hundred  women  visitors  in  a  day.  While  Messrs. 
Nicoll,  Riley,  and  S.  Clarke  assisted  each  other  in  receiving 
the  men  in  the  front  of  the  house,  Mrs.  Nicoll  single-handed 
had  to  do  her  part  of  the  hospitality  elsewhere.  For  months 
these  visitors  came  by  hundreds,  until  the  workers  felt  it 
to  be  like  living  in  a  continuous  fair.  Yet  this  was  what 
they  had  gone  for,  and,  though  exhausting  and  trying  to 
patience,  it  was  in  this  way  that  suspicion  was  to  be  disarmed 
and  friendly  relationships  established,  which  were  necessary 
preliminaries  to  the  successful  preaching  of  the  Gospel. 

Within  a  few  days  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  George  Clarke  reaching 
the  city  of  Kweichow,  Mrs.  William  McCarthy  and  Miss  Kidd, 

K 


130  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

escorted  by  Messrs  F.  W.  Bailer  and  Trench,  set  out  from 
Wuchang  for  the  same  province,  travelling,  however,  across 
Hunan  instead  of  up  the  Yangtze.  In  the  light  of  all  that 
has  subsequently  happened,  this  journey  of  ladies  through 
Hunan  may  appear  as  almost  too  serious  an  undertaking, 
but  in  those  days  all  work  in  the  interior  was  looked  upon  as 
serious.  During  this  journey  thirty-three  days  were  spent 
in  Hunan,  when  many  opportunities  were  obtained  for 
telling  the  Gospel  story  to  some  of  the  Hunanese  women. 
At  some  places  where  the  ladies  landed — for  the  journey  was 
by  boat — they  were  received  with  great  kindness,  and  the 
women  pressed  around  them  in  the  most  friendly  manner. 
There  is  little  doubt  that  but  for  the  opposition  of  the  officials, 
and  chiefly  of  the  literati,  such  friendly  receptions  would 
have  been  more  general  in  Hunan  and  throughout  China. 
The  only  trouble  experienced  on  this  journey  was  occasioned 
by  the  boat  twice  running  on  the  rocks,  but  none  the  less 
Kweiyang  was  safely  reached  on  April  27,  1880,  and  soon 
an  encouraging  work  among  the  women  was  reported. 

In  March  of  the  following  year  ladies  again  travelled 
through  Hunan.  Upon  this  occasion  the  boat  was  badly 
wrecked  at  one  of  the  rapids,  and  the  whole  party,  including 
the  two  ladies,  Mrs.  Broumton  and  Miss  Kerr,  had  to  reside 
for  a  full  fortnight  on  Hunan  soil.  Concerning  this  ex 
perience,  Miss  Kerr,  who  was  a  trained  nurse  and  gave  some 
medical  assistance  to  those  who  came,  wrote  : 

The  women  used  to  come  to  me  early  in  the  morning  and  late  at 
night.  ...  I  could  go  out  alone  as  far  as  I  liked  to  walk,  and  be 
afraid  of  nothing.  .  .  .  The  whole  village  turned  out  to  see  us  start, 
and  I  felt  like  leaving  home  when  I  bade  the  women  good-bye. 

And  yet  nearly  twenty  years  were  to  elapse  ere  this 
province  was  to  be  opened  for  settled  work  either  by  men  or 
women. 

With  the  arrival  of  these  reinforcements  for  Kweichow, 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  George  Clarke  felt  free  to  turn  their  thoughts 
towards  Yunnan,  and  when  God  took  from  them  their  little 
son,  they  triumphed  over  their  sorrow,  and  determined  to 


PIONEERS  IN  WOMEN'S  WORK  131 

make  use  of  this  freedom  from  home  responsibilities  and  go 
forward  to  the  unknown.  Their  journey  was  commenced 
on  May  16,  1881,  and  after  having  traversed  the  greater  part 
of  Yunnan,  Talifu  was  reached  on  June  27.  Here  they 
settled,  feeling  peculiarly  cast  upon  the  Lord,  since  the 
difficulties  of  communication  with  the  coast  from  that  distant 
outpost  were  neither  few  nor  easily  overcome.  Here  Mrs. 
Clarke  laid  down  her  life  some  two  years  later,  leaving  a 
little  babe  six  weeks  old,  far  from  all  medical  aid  and  without 
having  seen  a  European  sister  for  more  than  two  years. 
Painful  and  trying  as  were  the  experiences  of  not  a  few 
during  these  early  days,  the  workers  rejoiced  to  know  that 
however  far  they  might  be  from  human  companionship, 
they  were  as  near  to  the  Throne  of  Christ  as  they  would  have 
been  at  home  ;  yea,  nearer,  if  they  were  where  God  had 
guided  them. 

We  have  now  rapidly  followed  the  story  of  the  entry 
by  women  workers,  into  seven  out  of  the  nine  unoccupied 
provinces.  The  only  remaining  one  in  which  the  C.I.M. 
was  privileged  to  be  the  pioneer  in  this  work  was  Honan. 
Itinerant  work,  it  will  be  remembered,  had  commenced  here 
in  1875,  but  Honan  was  to  prove  one  of  the  hardest  provinces 
to  settle  in,  and  Kaifeng,  its  capital,  was  indeed  the  last 
capital  opened  to  the  Gospel,  Changsha,  the  capital  of  Hunan, 
not  excepted. 

In  October  1881  Mr.  Henry  Hunt,  who  had  been  quietly 
residing  at  Runingfu  for  about  a  year,  was  married  to  Miss 
Smalley,  and  together  they  returned  to  Honan.  Runingfu 
was  reached  on  Christmas  Eve,  and  those  who  know  any 
thing  of  the  curiosity  of  the  Honanese  in  the  early  days  will 
readily  believe  that  Christmas  Day  was  no  holiday  to  this 
young  bride.  Crowds  simply  flocked  to  see  the  foreign  lady, 
and  patience  and  strength  were  taxed  to  their  utmost.  The 
prospects  of  a  settlement,  however,  seemed  not  unhopeful. 
Proclamations  were  put  out  by  the  officials  stating  that  the 
foreigners  were  not  to  be  disturbed  so  long  as  they  made  no 
attempt  to  purchase  either  land  or  houses  ;  but  disappoint 
ment  was  not  far  away,  for  in  the  following  February,  owing 


132 


THE  SECOND  DECADE 


to  the  uprising  of  a  secret  society  called  the  White  Lotus 
Sect,  these  workers  were  compelled  to  retire,  and  more  than 
two  years  were  to  elapse  ere  a  settled  station  in  Honan  was 
to  be  obtained. 

With  this  brief  residence  in  Honan  we  must  conclude 
our  story  of  the  Pioneers  in  Women's  Work,  which  story 
began  in  the  autumn  of  1878  and  now  closes  in  the  early 
months  of  1882.  During  this  period  eight  of  the  nine 
formerly  unoccupied  provinces  had  been  visited  by  lady 
pioneers,  and  in  all  of  them,  with  the  exception  of  Hunan 
and  Honan,  a  permanent  settlement  had  been  obtained  and 
women's  work  commenced. 


SUMMARY  OF  EARLY   JOURNEYS 

WOMEN 

Shansi.         Mrs.   Hudson  Taylor.,  Miss  Home,  and  Miss  Crickmay 
reach  Taiyuanfu,  October  23,  1878. 

Shensi.         Mr.  and  Mrs.  George  King  settle  at  Hanchung,  November 

1879. 
Misses  Wilson  and  Faussett  reach  Hanchung,  May  21, 1880. 

Kansu.         Mr.  and  Mrs.  George  Parker  and  Miss  Wilson  settle  at 
Tsinchow,  January  1881. 

Szechwan.     Mr.  and  Mrs.  Nicoll  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  George  Clarke  reach 
Chungking,  January  1880. 

Kweichow.    Mr.  and  Mrs.  George  Clarke  settle  at  Kweiyang,  Feb.  1880. 
Mrs.  Wm.  M'Carthy  and  Miss  Kidd,  escorted  by  Messrs. 
F.  W.  Bailer  and  Trench,  reach  Kweiyang,  April  27, 
1880. 

Hunan.        Mrs.  Wm.  McCarthy  and  Miss  Kidd  travel  through  Hunan, 

March  1880. 
Mrs.  Broumton  (before  her  second   marriage  Mrs.  Wm. 

McCarthy)  and   Miss  Kerr  travel  through  and  reside 

for  a  fortnight  in  Hunan,   March   1881,   en  route  to 

Kweichow. 
Yunnan.      Mr.  and  Mrs.  George  Clarke  settle  at  Talifu,  June  27,  1881. 

Honan.         Mr.  and  Mrs.  Henry  Hunt  temporarily  reside  at  Runingfu, 
October  1881. 

Anhwei.        Mr.  and  Mrs.  Meadows  settle  at  Anking  in  1869. 


XX 

BLESSINGS  IN  DISGUISE 

ON  Monday  February  24,  1879,  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor,  after 
having,  as  already  recorded,  more  fully  arranged  for  the 
carrying  on  of  the  work  at  home,  left  once  again  the  shores 
of  England  for  China.  On  his  way  to  join  the  French  mail, 
he  held  meetings  by  request  at  Amsterdam  and  Marseilles, 
the  C.I.M.  thus  becoming  known  for  the  first  time  on  the 
Continent  where  in  later  years  so  many  Associate  Missions 
were  to  be  formed.  Marseilles  was  left  on  March  9.  The 
party  consisted  of  Mr.  Taylor,  Messrs  Pigott,  Coulthard, 
Hunnex,  Henry  Hunt,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  McCarthy. 
Shanghai  was  reached  on  April  22,  but  so  seriously  ill  had  Mr. 
Taylor  been  on  the  voyage  and  after  arrival  that  he  was 
strongly  urged  by  several  physicians,  if  he  would  not  return 
home  again,  to  see  what  Chefoo  would  do  for  his  health. 

In  consequence  of  this  advice,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor 
— for  Mrs.  Taylor  had  come  down  from  Taiyuanfu  to  meet 
her  husband — accompanied  by  Mr.  Coulthard,  started  for 
the  north  without  delay.  Chefoo  was  reached  on  Thurs 
day  morning,  May  8,  where  Mr.  and  Mrs.  T.  J.  Ballard  of 
H.I.M.  Customs  most  kindly  entertained  the  party.  The 
improvement  in  health  which  immediately  followed  led  Mr. 
Taylor  to  decide  to  invite  a  number  of  the  workers  on  the 
Yangtze  to  come  to  Chefoo  for  a  change.  A  yard,  with  two 
small  buildings  and  a  go-down,  was  rented  from  May  26, 
1879,  and  under  somewhat  camping  conditions  of  life  not  a 
few  workers  were  much  refreshed  by  a  brief  stay  at  this 
invigorating  seaside  port. 

133 


134  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

The  value  of  Chefoo  as  a  site  for  a  Sanatorium  at  once 
became  evident,  and  in  the  autumn  Mr.  Taylor  was  enabled 
to  purchase  land  at  a  good  distance  from  the  foreign  settle 
ment,  where  Mr.  Judd  superintended  the  building  of  a  house 
which  he  and  his  family  subsequently  occupied.  Before 
proceeding  with  further  buildings,  Mr.  Taylor  was  desirous 
of  seeing  of  what  nature  the  sea  coast  was  south  of  the 
Shantung  promontory,  and  so  on  December  10  he  and  Mr. 
Coulthard  left  Chefoo  by  an  overland  route,  and  journeyed 
south,  reaching  Yangchow  early  in  January  1880. 

The  coast  south  of  the  promontory  did  not  commend 
itself  to  Mr.  Taylor,  and  consequently  Chefoo  was  decided 
upon  as  the  best  place  for  the  Sanatorium.  This  building 
was  commenced  the  same  year,  and  it  was  subsequently 
estimated  that  the  entire  cost  was  covered  by  the  saving  in 
passages  to  Europe  which  would  have  been  necessary  during 
the  next  five  years  but  for  the  benefit  gained  by  the  workers 
at  Chefoo. 

Early  in  the  year  1881  Mr.  W.  L.  Elliston,  a  qualified 
teacher  who  had  been  taken  ill  while  engaged  in  evangelistic 
work  in  Shansi,  came  to  Chefoo  for  medical  treatment,  and 
Mr.  Taylor,  who  was  also  at  Chefoo,  suggested  to  him  that 
he  might  make  good  use  of  his  time  and  talents  by  teaching 
Mr.  Judd's  children.  To  this  he  consented,  and  a  School 
was  commenced  with  two  scholars  in  a  little  room  about 
twelve  feet  square.  At  this  time  there  was  no  School  in 
China  for  European  children,  save  one  conducted  by  the 
Jesuits  in  Shanghai,  and  applications  soon  began  to  arrive 
from  all  parts  of  China  from  parents  who  were  anxious 
for  their  children  to  be  educated  under  Protestant 
influences. 

The  original  idea  of  the  School,  therefore,  soon  expanded 
itself,  and  in  China's  Millions  for  August  1881  Mr.  Taylor 
wrote  : 

Among  the  various  works  we  are  proposing  is  that  of  a  School  for 
the  children  of  missionaries  and  other  foreign  residents  in  China,  and 
we  trust  that  through  it  the  trial  and  expense  of  sending  children  home 
from  China  may  in  many  cases  be  saved.  Mr.  W.  L.  Elliston  has 
already  made  a  commencement,  and  the  number  of  pupils  is  about 


BLESSINGS  IN  DISGUISE  135 

twelve,  with  every  prospect  of  increase.     We  are  also  hoping  shortly 
to  see  a  Dispensary  and  probably  a  Hospital  commenced  there. 

By  April  1882,  when  Mr.  Douthwaite  reached  Chefoo, 
there  were  fourteen  boys  and  girls  in  the  School,  and  a  new 
building  was  in  course  of  erection.  In  the  following  year 
more  land  was  purchased  and  a  separate  School  for  the  boys 
was  erected.  In  following  these  developments  at  Chefoo, 
we  have  already  reached  a  point  somewhat  in  advance  of 
our  story  elsewhere,  for  the  plans  laid  down  for  these  separate 
Schools  at  Chefoo  were  made  in  faith,  in  view  of  the  decision 
arrived  at  in  November  1881,  to  pray  for  seventy  additional 
workers.  The  logical  sequence  to  such  a  prayer  would 
naturally  be  that  more  accommodation  for  the  education  of 
missionaries'  children  would  be  needed. 

Here,  however,  we  must  for  the  present  leave  the  story 
of  what  is  one  of  the  most  noteworthy  developments  of  the 
Mission.  Few  questions  more  seriously  exercise  the  hearts 
and  minds  of  missionaries  than  the  arrangements  necessary 
for  the  education  of  their  children.  In  Chefoo  God  has  led 
to  an  arrangement  which  involves  the  minimum  of  separation 
both  in  distance  and  in  time,  and  to  a  method  whereby  the 
children  are  always  under  a  sympathetic  and  Christian  in 
fluence,  since  all  the  teachers  are  members  of  the  Mission. 
The  Schools  and  Sanatorium  at  Chefoo,  the  outcome  first 
of  Mr.  Taylor's  serious  condition  physically,  and  subse 
quently  of  Mr.  Elliston's  illness,  illustrate  how  God  can  and 
does  make  all  things,  even  adversity,  work  together  for 
good,  so  that  the  darkness  and  trial  may  become  His  guiding 
pillar  of  cloud.1 

1  Schools  continued  in  Chapter  XXXIV.  p.  225. 


XXI 
A  CHINESE  PIONEER 

IN  all  the  pioneering  journeys  already  recorded,  the  foreign 
missionaries,  whether  men  or  women,  had  been  greatly 
indebted  to  the  assistance  and  companionship  of  the  Chinese 
Christians  who  accompanied  them.  The  names  of  these 
men  have  not  always  been  recorded,  but  it  is  only  right  that 
their  services  should  be  remembered.  Though  travelling  in 
their  own  country,  they  have,  equally  with  the  missionary, 
endured  hardness  by  the  way,  and  not  infrequently  have  had 
to  face  the  contempt  of  their  fellow-men  in  ways  which 
would  little  affect  the  foreign  worker.  In  this  chapter  we 
purpose  briefly  to  relate  the  story  of  one  Chinese  Christian, 
who,  as  the  pioneer  of  a  remarkable  work  on  the  Kwangsin 
River,  may  be  looked  upon  as  typical  of  many  others  who 
have  engaged  in  aggressive  evangelistic  work  among  their 
own  people. 

Towards  the  close  of  the  Taiping  Rebellion,  in  the  year 
1860,  a  military  official  named  Yii  Yuh-shan  was  stationed 
for  a  short  time  in  the  city  of  Ningpo,  in  command  of  a  com 
pany  of  Imperial  troops.  He  was  an  unusually  thoughtful 
man,  deeply  interested  in  spiritual  affairs,  and  "  by  heavenly 
chance  express  "  happened  one  day  to  hear  a  foreign  mis 
sionary  preach  the  Gospel.  Though  no  immediate  fruit 
followed  this  brief  hearing  of  the  Message  of  Life,  the  good 
seed  lay  dormant  in  his  heart  for  years.  Meanwhile  the 
Imperial  troops  were  disbanded,  and  Captain  Yii,  hearing  of 
a  sect  of  reformed  Buddhists  opposed  to  idolatry,  joined 
them.  Possessed  of  a  true  missionary  spirit,  he  received 

136 


A  CHINESE  PIONEER  137 

permission  from  the  leaders  of  this  sect  to  go  forth  as  their 
accredited  agent.  Without  salary  or  pecuniary  aid,  he 
travelled  from  house  to  house  and  village  to  village,  de 
nouncing  the  sin  of  idolatry  and  proclaiming  the  existence  of 
One  Supreme  but  unknown  Ruler  over  heaven  and  earth. 
Through  the  persuasive  earnestness  of  this  man  thousands 
enrolled  their  names  as  converts  in  the  provinces  of  Chekiang 
and  Kiangsi. 

In  1875  Dr.  Douthwaite  received  an  urgent  request  from 
a  Chinese  Christian  to  open  a  preaching-hall  in  the  city  of 
Kinhwafu.  On  two  previous  occasions  missionaries  had 
been  turned  out  of  this  city,  and  the  Doctor  was  not  over- 
sanguine  of  success.  Accompanied,  however,  by  two 
Chinese  evangelists  and  Pastor  Wang  Lae-djun,  he  set  forth, 
and  after  a  few  days'  delay  successfully  rented  a  house  in  the 
city.  The  news  of  the  foreigner's  arrival  speedily  spread, 
and  among  those  who  came  to  see  him  was  Captain  Yii, 
who  had  not  forgotten  the  words  he  had  heard  at  Ningpo 
fifteen  years  before  from  some  unknown  messenger  of  the 
Gospel.  He  became  an  earnest  student  of  the  Word,  and 
after  about  a  year's  study  and  inquiry,  this  zealous  Buddhist 
applied  for  baptism,  and  was  with  several  others  baptized  by 
Pastor  Wang. 

Several  months  later  he  was  taken  ill,  and  came  to 
the  city  of  Chiichowfu  to  spend  a  few  weeks  under  Dr. 
Douthwaite's  care.  Ere  this  short  visit  had  finished,  he 
asked  that  he  might  be  allowed  to  go  forward  as  a  preacher 
of  the  Gospel. 

"  I  well  remember/'  wrote  Dr.  Douthwaite  in  the  booklet  from 
which  this  story  is  taken,  "  how  after  we  had  been  reading  the  Scriptures 
and  praying  together,  he  earnestly  entreated  me  to  let  him  go,  saying, 
'  I  have  led  hundreds  on  the  wrong  road,  and  now  I  want  to  lead  them 
to  the  Way  of  Truth.  Let  me  go  ;  I  ask  no  wages,  nor  do  I  want  any 
of  your  money  ;  I  only  want  to  serve  Jesus.'  ' 

Permission,  of  course,  was  gladly  given,  and  after  being 
commended  to  God  in  prayer  by  the  little  band  of  Christians 
who  formed  the  nucleus  of  the  Church  at  Chiichowfu,  he 
packed  up  his  bundle  of  bedding,  and  set  forth  on  his 
journey  over  the  border  into  the  neighbouring  province  of 


138  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

Kiangsi.  Three  weeks  later  he  returned,  bringing  with  him 
an  old  farmer,  Yii  Liang-shih,  one  of  his  former  converts  to 
the  reformed  Buddhist  faith,  a  man  who  for  more  than  forty 
years  had  been  seeking  the  truth.  This  new  convert,  ere  he 
returned  home,  asked  for  baptism,  and  argued  so  earnestly 
against  any  delay,  on  account  of  his  age,  that  Dr.Douthwaite, 
after  some  hesitation,  yielded  to  his  request.  The  day 
following  his  baptism  he  set  out  for  his  home,  and  so  faith 
fully  and  effectually  did  he  witness  for  Christ  that  six  weeks 
later  he  returned  with  six  men  who,  like  himself,  had  been 
earnest  seekers  for  the  truth.  These  inquirers  Dr.  and  Mrs. 
Douthwaite  gladly  welcomed,  and  a  year  later  the  Doctor 
had  the  joy  of  baptizing  them  in  addition  to  nine  others- 
including  several  women — who  had  been  led  to  trust  in 
Christ  through  their  testimony  and  changed  manner  of 
life. 

Meanwhile  Captain  Yii  had  continued  his  work  elsewhere, 
and  one  of  his  converts  was  a  young  farmer  named  Tung  of 
Taiyang,  near  the  city  of  Yiishan.  When  Dr.  Douthwaite 
visited  this  village,  some  months  later,  he  was  astonished  to 
find  the  courtyard  of  Farmer  Tung's  house  filled  with  men 
and  women  all  seated  in  regular  order  on  stools,  chairs, 
baskets,  inverted  buckets,  etc.,  quietly  waiting  for  him  to 
come  and  address  them.  Turning  to  the  farmer,  he  asked 
him  how  he  had  contrived  to  gather  so  many  people  together 
at  such  short  notice,  and  was  still  more  surprised  to  learn 
that  it  was  their  regular  custom  to  meet  thus  every 
evening,  to  sing  hymns  and  listen  to  the  reading  of  the 
Scriptures. 

During  the  year  which  followed  this  interesting  visit  to 
Taiyang,  Dr.  Douthwaite  baptized  fifteen  converts  from 
that  village,  and  an  equal  number  from  other  villages  in  the 
same  district— all  the  fruit  of  the  labours  of  Captain  Yii  and 
Farmer  Tung.  In  this  obscure  village,  on  the  eastern  border 
of  Kiangsi,  the  first  Christian  Church  in  the  Kwangsin 
River  district  was  organized.  Subsequently  a  house  was 
rented  in  the  city  of  Yiishan,  which  was  made  the  centre  of 
missionary  effort  in  that  district,  and  preaching-halls  were 
soon  opened  in  other  places. 


A  CHINESE  PIONEER  139 

Through  failure  of  health  Dr.  Douthwaite  was  compelled, 
in  1880,  to  relinquish  the  work  at  Chuchowfu,  and  after  a 
brief  period  of  service  at  Wenchow  he  removed  to  the  more 
bracing  climate  of  Chefoo  in  1882,  where  the  memory  of  his 
faithful  and  loving  service  is  still  fresh  and  fragrant.  Captain 
Yii  has  also  long  since  gone  to  his  reward,  but  the  seed  he 
sowed  in  Eastern  Kiangsi  is  still  springing  up  and  bearing 
fruit. 

During  the  summer  of  1880,  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor  and 
Mr.  Coulthard,  after  the  journey  south  from  Chefoo,  when 
the  southern  coast  of  the  Shantung  promontory  was  pro 
spected,  visited  the  C.I.M.  stations  in  eight  of  the  eleven 
prefectures  of  Chekiang,  this  journey  being  broken  by  a 
brief  visit  to  Shanghai  in  June  to  welcome  Dr.  and  Mrs. 
Schofield.  From  Chuchowfu  Mr.  Taylor  and  Mr.  Coulthard, 
accompanied  by  Mr.  Randle,  who  had  succeeded  Dr.  Douth 
waite  as  missionary-in-charge  of  that  station,  crossed  the 
border  of  the  province  and  entered  Kiangsi,  where  the  work 
originated  by  Captain  Yii  had  sprung  up. 

After  an  interesting  visit  to  the  city  of  Yiishan,  the  party 
proceeded  down  the  Kwangsin  River.  From  Hokow  Mr. 
Randle  returned  to  his  station,  while  the  other  two  secured 
passages  on  a  large  cargo  boat  and  continued  their  journey. 
At  this  time  Hokow  and  Kweiki  were  the  only  other  places 
on  this  river  open  to  missionary  effort,  and  these  were  in  the 
care  of  Chinese  evangelists  supervised  by  Mr.  Car  dwell,  who 
was  then  residing  at  Takutang  on  the  Poyang  Lake.  The 
evangelists  at  these  out-stations  were  greatly  cheered  by  this 
visit  from  Mr.  Taylor,  for  Mr.  Cardwell  had  been  hindered 
by  family  circumstances  from  visiting  them  as  frequently 
as  he  desired.  When  Takutang  was  reached,  the  needs  of 
the  new  work  on  the  Kwangsin  River  were  carefully  and 
prayerfully  discussed,  and  it  was  decided  that  as  Hokow 
was  nearer  to  Chuchowfu  than  to  Takutang,  Mr.  Randle 
should  in  the  future  be  made  responsible  for  that  work,  while 
Kweiki  still  remained  under  the  charge  of  Mr.  Cardwell. 

Under  these  arrangements  the  work  in  these  districts 
continued  for  the  next  five  or  six  years,  until  in  the  spring 
of  1886  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor,  in  company  with  Miss  Murray 


140  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

and  other  workers,  undertook  another  journey  down  the 
same  river,  which  journey  inaugurated  that  special  Women's 
Work  with  which  this  district  is  now  inseparably  associated, 
the  story  of  which,  however,  must  be  postponed  to  a  future 
chapter.1 

1  Continued  in  Chapter  XXVII.  p.  176. 


XXII 
HEALING  THE  SICK 

MEDICAL  work  has  been  the  missionary's  unofficial  passport 
in  many  lands,  and  in  none  more  so  than  in  China.  Even 
Dr.  Morrison,  immersed  as  he  was  in  literary  work,  assisted 
by  two  doctors  connected  with  the  East  India  Company, 
undertook  something  in  the  way  of  dispensary  work.  In 
1834,  tne  Year  that  Morrison  died,  Dr.  Peter  Parker  of  the 
American  Board  landed  at  Canton,  and  during  the  follow 
ing  year  opened  the  first  Mission  Hospital  in  China.  In 
1839,  Dr.  Lockhart  of  the  L.M.S.,  the  first  medical  missionary 
from  England  to  China,  commenced  work  at  Macao,  being 
joined  by  Dr.  Hobson  later  in  the  year. 

The  dual  commission  of  our  Lord,  "  Preach  the  Gospel ; 
heal  the  sick,"  early  impressed  Mr.  Taylor  and  directed  the 
line  of  his  studies  ere  he  first  sailed  for  China.  Both  at 
Ningpo  and  afterwards  at  Hangchow,  as  his  time  and 
strength  allowed,  he  devoted  himself  to  medical  work,  and 
his  qualifications  as  a  doctor  were  an  almost  indispensable 
part  of  his  equipment  as  the  founder  and  leader  of  a  young 
Mission,  which  for  many  years  had  no  other  medical  man 
within  its  ranks.  Incidentally  we  have  already  mentioned 
his  labours  as  medical  helper  and  adviser  to  the  members 
of  the  Mission  in  the  early  days.  But  even  in  later  years, 
though  burdened  with  the  complex  responsibilities  of  a  large 
Mission,  not  a  few  experienced  his  kindly  ministrations  in 
times  of  sickness. 

Mr.  Harvey,  who  joined  the  Mission  in  1869,  temporarily 
retired  after  three  years'  service  in  the  field,  that  he  might 

141 


142  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

qualify  himself  for  medical  work.  In  February  1876,  after 
having  completed  his  medical  training,  Dr.  Harvey  with  his 
wife  sailed  from  Glasgow  to  start  a  Medical  Mission  at 
Bhamo.  This  work  was  carried  on  for  some  time,  but  owing 
to  the  failure  of  Dr.  Harvey's  health,  and  the  shock  sustained 
in  a  subsequent  shipwreck  when  he  and  wife  were  seeking 
change,  both  had  to  retire  from  the  field. 

Dr.  Douthwaite,  whose  first  interest  in  China  was  aroused 
by  the  review  of  a  booklet  written  by  Mr.  Meadows  wrhen  at 
home  on  furlough,  went  out  in  1874,  an<^  though  not  then 
fully  qualified,  he  soon  distinguished  himself  by  his  gifts  as 
a  surgeon  and  physician.  In  his  first  year  at  Wenchow,  he 
treated  more  than  four  thousand  patients. 

In  April  1882  Dr.  Douthwaite  commenced  at  Chefoo  the 
chief  work  by  which  he  will  be  remembered.  For  a  brief 
period  in  1884,  as  soon  as  Korea  opened  its  doors,  he  crossed 
over  and  laboured  for  a  while  in  that  Hermit  Kingdom, 
which  has  of  late  so  wondrously  responded  to  the  message 
of  the  Gospel.  After  a  well-earned  furlough,  when  he  com 
pleted  his  medical  course,  he  returned  to  Chefoo  in  1886, 
and  laboured  there  with  noteworthy  success  and  acceptance 
until  his  much-lamented  death  on  October  5,  1899.  The 
story  of  these  latter  years  cannot  be  told  here,  for  we  must 
retrace  our  steps  to  the  year  1880,  when  Dr.  Harold  Schofield 
joined  the  Mission,  for  with  him  the  Mission's  medical  work 
passed  from  a  tentative  to  a  permanent  basis. 

The  need  of  medical  men  in  China  had  been  so  keenly  felt 
by  the  Mission  that  the  London  Council  in  1879,  when 
Mr.  Taylor  was  present,  resolved  to  assist  any  really  suitable 
medical  candidates  in  their  training,  and  Mr.  Taylor 
attempted,  though  unsuccessfully,  to  secure  from  one  of  the 
leading  hospitals  in  London  a  special  reduction  of  fees  for 
missionary  students.  The  offer  of  so  well  qualified  a  man 
as  Dr.  Harold  Schofield,  coming  at  this  time,  was  therefore 
a  marked  answer  to  prayer. 

Robert  Harold  Ains worth  Schofield  was  born  in  1851, 
and  had  had  an  unusually  brilliant  course  at  Oxford  and 
London,  yet  withal  was  a  man  of  most  humble  spirit.  Dr. 
A.  T.  Schofield,  his  brother  and  biographer,  relates  how  he 


HEALING  THE  SICK  143 

came  across  two  small  private  papers  which  illuminate  the 
character  of  the  writer.  On  one  of  these  Dr.  Harold 
Schofield  had  written  for  his  wife's  eye  only  a  list  of  his 
scholarships,  which  amounted  to  over  £1400.  The  other 
was  a  torn  piece  of  notepaper,  inserted  in  a  portfolio  con 
taining  over  forty  certificates  of  honour  from  the  Victoria 
University  ;  certificates  of  the  London  University  showing 
that  he  was  first  in  the  Honours  List  in  Zoology,  third  in 
Honours  in  Geology,  Palaeontology  and  Classics,  and  also 
containing  all  his  numerous  diplomas.  On  this  slip  was 
written  :  "  God  resisteth  the  proud,  but  giveth  grace  unto  the 
humble." 

Such  was  the  man  who,  crowned  with  the  degrees  and 
honours  of  Oxford  and  London,  counted  it  the  greatest 
honour  of  his  life  to  lay  all  these  at  the  feet  of  Jesus  Christ, 
that  he  might  be  His  servant  in  China. 

Dr.  and  Mrs.  Schofield,  with  Mr.  R.  J.  Landale,1  also  an 
Oxford  man,  sailed  for  China,  via  America,  on  April  7,  1880, 
the  Doctor  and  his  wife  reaching  Shanghai  on  June  30,  and 
Mr.  Landale  some  days  earlier.  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Schofield, 
after  a  brief  period  of  study  at  Chefoo,  left  for  Taiyuanfu 
at  the  end  of  October,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Landale  following  them 
early  the  next  year.  At  that  time  there  were  only  two 
stations  in  Shansi :  Taiyuanfu,  the  capital,  and  Pingyangfu 
in  the  south  of  the  province. 

Dr.  Schofield,  who  had  previously  had  charge  of  a 
hospital  during  the  war  between  Turkey  and  Servia,  and 
had  served  in  a  like  capacity  in  the  conflict  between  Turkey 
and  Russia,  soon  commenced  work  in  Taiyuanfu.  At  first 
he  wisely  limited  his  medical  work  to  two  days  a  week,  so  as 
to  reserve  the  remaining  time  for  the  study  of  the  language, 
but  even  thus  he  treated  over  fifteen  hundred  different  out 
patients  and  between  forty  and  fifty  in-patients  during  his 
first  year.  During  the  following  year  these  figures  had  more 
than  doubled,  for  3247  different  patients  visited  the  hospital, 
the  total  attendance  being  6571,  of  whom  1174  were  women. 

As  he  was  brought  into  closer  contact  with  these  patients 

1  Mr.  Landale  had  been  in  China  before  as  an  independent  worker 
associated  with  the  Mission. 


144  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

the  needs  of  China  increasingly  impressed  him,  and  in 
February  1883  he  issued  an  appeal  for  medical  missionaries 
for  the  interior  of  China. 

"  It  is  little  more  than  two  years/'  he  wrote,  "  since  I  began  medical 
work  in  this  inland  city,  which  is  more  than  three  hundred  miles 
(fourteen  days'  journey)  from  the  nearest  Treaty  Port,  but  the  vast 
and  crying  need  for  more  labourers  constrains  me  to  publish  this 
appeal.  .  .  .  Surely  closely  in  the  wake  of  the  widely  extended  itinera 
tions,  which  have  been  taken  in  all  parts  of  the  Empire,  should  follow 
the  settling  down  of  medical  missionaries  at  least  in  the  capital  of 
every  province,  and  if  possible  in  some  of  the  largest  county  towns  as 
well. 

"  Most  earnestly  would  I  beg  every  Christian  reader  possessed  of 
competent  medical  knowledge,  or  who  has  the  means  of  acquiring  it, 
to  pray  constantly  for  a  blessing  on  medical  mission  work  in  this  land, 
and  further  to  consider  whether  God  is  not  calling  him  to  devote  his 
medical  knowledge  and  skill  to  the  relief  of  the  sick  and  suffering  in 
China,  with  the  avowed  object  of  bringing  the  light  of  the  Gospel  to 
those  who  sit  in  darkness  and  in  the  shadow  of  death.  There  is  an 
immense  field  and  great  need  for  lady  medical  missionaries,  thoroughly 
qualified,  to  practise  their  profession,  and  yet  no  English  Mission  in 
China  as  yet  numbers  such  workers  among  its  ranks." 

This  appeal  was  dated  Taiyuanfu,  February  7,  1883. 
Ere  another  six  months  had  passed  the  writer  of  it  had 
finished  his  brief  career  and  passed  to  his  reward,  for  on 
August  i,  1883,  Dr.  Schofield  died  of  typhus  fever,  con 
tracted  from  a  patient  who  was  surreptitiously  admitted  by 
the  gate-keeper  into  a  private  room  without  the  doctor's 
knowledge.  In  accordance  with  his  own  request,  made 
shortly  before  his  death,  the  following  text  and  verse  of  a 
hymn  were  placed  upon  his  memorial  card  : 

A  little  while,  and  He  that  shall  come,  will  come,  and  will  not 
tarry. 

A  little  while  for  winning  souls  to  Jesus, 
Ere  we  behold  His  beauty  face  to  face. 

A  little  while  for  healing  souls'  diseases, 
By  telling  others  of  a  Saviour's  Grace. 

Though  Dr.  Schofield  was  only  permitted  to  give  a  little 
more  than  three  years  of  his  life  to  the  mission  field — nearly 
the  same  space  of  time  as  that  which  compassed  our  Saviour's 


HEALING  THE  SICK  145 

ministry  on  earth — we  cannot  and  dare  not  measure  life  by 
our  imperfect  measurement  of  time.  Some  of  the  briefest 
lives  upon  the  mission  field,  such  as  those  of  Henry  Marty n, 
Ion  Keith  Falconer,  and  Bishop  Hannington,  have  been  the 
most  fruitful  in  their  influence  upon  others,  and  Dr.  Schofield's 
life  will  ever  remain  a  reminder  that  earthly  honours  and 
emoluments  are  as  nothing  to  the  glory  of  serving  Christ 
"  by  telling  others  of  a  Saviour's  Grace." 

In  the  year  preceding  Dr.  Schofield's  Home-call  two  new 
medical  men  had  joined  the  Mission — Dr.  William  Wilson 
and  Dr.  E.  H.  Edwards.  The  former  of  these  was  appointed 
to  Hanchungfu  in  Shensi,  where  for  many  years  he  carried 
on  an  important  medical  mission.  Dr.  Edwards,  who  was 
at  first  designated  to  and  proceeded  to  west  China,  was 
asked  to  succeed  Dr.  Schofield  and  carry  on  the  work  which 
had  been  so  ably  and  successfully  commenced.  This  work 
continues  to  this  day,  though  it  was  subsequently  worked 
for  a  time  as  an  Independent  Mission  under  the  name  of  the 
Sheoyang  Mission,  and  then  when  all  the  workers,  with  the 
exception  of  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Edwards  who  were  at  home  on 
furlough,  had  been  killed  in  the  Boxer  crisis,  the  work  was 
transferred  to  the  care  of  the  Baptist  Missionary  Society.1 

1  The  story  of  medical  work  is  continued  in  Chapter  XLIV.  p.  296. 


XXIII 
PIONEER  WORK  IN  HUNAN 

DURING  the  same  year  in  which  Dr.  Schofield  reached  China, 
renewed  efforts  were  made  to  settle  in  Hunan.  This  province, 
with  its  population  of  twenty-two  millions  of  the  most  virile 
of  the  Chinese  race,  was  the  last  one  to  be  opened  to  the 
Gospel.  The  story  of  those  who  by  earnest  and  importunate 
prayer  and  with  undaunted  courage  laboured  for  more  than 
twenty  years  for  the  opening  of  this  province,  is  full  of 
inspiration  and  suggestive  lessons.  The  work  of  the  C.I.M. 
in  Hunan  commenced  in  1875, 1  when  Mr.  C.  H.  Judd  rented 
premises  in  the  city  of  Yochow,  as  recorded  on  p.  102. 
We  have  also  elsewhere  followed  the  journeys  of  several 
parties  of  pioneer  workers,  both  men  and  women,  who 
travelled  through  the  province  on  their  way  to  regions 
beyond.  It  was  not,  however,  until  the  year  1880  that 
continuous  and  persistent  efforts  were  made  to  gain  an 
entrance  into  the  province,  and  these  will  always  be  associated 
with  the  name  of  Adam  Dorward,  who  for  eight  years  con 
centrated  his  sole  attention  on  the  evangelization  of  this 
attractive  yet  hostile  region. 

Adam  Dorward  was  born  and  brought  up  in  comfortable 
circumstances  in  the  border  town  of  Galashiels,  and  forsook 
tempting  prospects  of  life  at  home  for  the  arduous  calling  of 
a  pioneer.  He  sailed  for  China  on  May  2,  1878,  and  early 

1  The  first  Protestant  missionary  to  enter  Hunan  was  the  Rev.  Josiah 
Cox  of  the  Wesleyan  Missionary  Society.  A  recently  discovered  letter 
shows  that  he  made  a  journey  into  the  province  in  May  1863,  but  apart 
from  this  journey  that  Society  was  unable  to  do  any  more  for  Hunan 
during  the  next  thirty  years. 

146 


PIONEER  WORK  IN  HUNAN  147 

expressed  a  desire  to  face  the  difficulties  and  dangers  of 
work  on  the  borders  of,  or  if  possible  within,  the  closed  land 
of  Tibet.  After  spending  more  than  two  years  in  study 
and  preparatory  work  in  the  province  of  Anhwei,  he  gladly 
accepted  the  closed  province  of  Hunan  as  a  more  approxi 
mate  and  pressing  problem  than  the  distant  borderlands  of 
the  Empire.  Here  for  the  remaining  eight  years  of  his  life, 
amid  unrecorded  hardships  and  almost  overwhelming  dis 
couragements,  he  devoted  the  strength  of  his  fine  manhood 
to  what  has  unquestionably  been  the  hardest  initial  task 
Missions  have  had  to  face  in  China. 

His  first  journey  into  Hunan  commenced  on  October  18, 
1880.  This  journey  lasted  five  and  a  half  months,  and  lay 
right  across  the  province  from  north-east  to  south-west,  as 
far  as  the  city  of  Hungkiang,  whence — after  having  re 
plenished  his  supplies  of  money  at  Kweiyang — he  returned 
overland  by  a  route  some  two  hundred  miles  long,  through 
regions  previously  unvisited  by  any  Protestant  missionary. 
During  this  tour  he  was  at  times  from  five  to  six  hundred 
miles  from  his  base,  and  passed  through  some  of  the  most 
southerly  cities  of  the  province,  such  as  Wukangchow  and 
Paokingfu,  selling  by  the  way  over  thirteen  thousand  Scrip 
tures  and  tracts.  After  a  brief  visit  of  a  few  days  to  Wuchang 
for  consultation  with  Mr.  Taylor,  he  set  forth  once  more 
upon  his  strenuous  toil.  Again  Kweiyang  was  visited,  and, 
after  six  days'  conference  with  his  brethren  there,  he  and 
his  sturdy  evangelist  walked  overland  to  Hungkiang,  where 
ten  days  were  spent  in  an  unsuccessful  attempt  to  secure 
premises.  On  July  26,  in  the  midst  of  the  summer  heat, 
this  city  was  left  and  a  number  of  other  places  visited,  but 
what  Dorward  was  able  to  endure  proved  too  much  for  his 
coolies,  and  somewhat  disappointed  with  the  necessary 
alteration  of  his  plans,  he  changed  his  overland  route  to  one 
by  water.  At  some  of  the  places  the  Yamen  authorities 
would  not  allow  him  to  enter  within  the  city  gates,  and  even 
tried  to  prevent  him  selling  books.  He  found,  however, 
plenty  of  people  in  the  suburbs,  and  in  his  reports  spoke 
rather  of  the  blessed  privilege  of  being  permitted  to  labour 
in  these  difficult  regions  than  of  his  sufferings  and  trials. 


148  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

Though  Adam  Dorward  was  not  indifferent  to  the  diffi 
culties  of  his  task,  he  rarely  spoke  of  hardship.  On  the  last 
day  of  the  year  1881  he  wrote  : 

Joined  in  spirit  with  other  members  of  the  Mission  and  made  this  a 
special  day  of  prayer.  The  year  has  passed  as  if  it  had  been  so  many 
weeks  instead  of  months,  yet  the  changes  and  trials  through  which  the 
Lord  has  led  me  have  been  very  varied  and  somewhat  extensive. 

Canny  Scot  as  he  was,  he  soon  recognized  that  the  easiest 
time  to  rent  premises  would  be  at  the  close  of  the  Chinese 
old  year,  when  some  hard-pressed  debtor  would  be  needing 
money.  He  therefore  left  Paokingfu — where  the  official 
had  prohibited  the  people,  by  proclamation,  from  buying 
or  reading  the  foreign  books — and  reached  Hungkiang  again 
on  January  21,  1882.  Ere  many  days  had  passed  he  and 
his  evangelist  were  rewarded  with  the  possession  of  the 
desired  premises.  Tne  wisdom  which  had  guided  him  to 
select  the  close  of  the  Chinese  old  year  as  the  best  time  for 
renting  premises,  now  suggested  to  him  the  advisability  of 
absenting  himself  from  the  city  for  a  few  weeks.  This  he 
did,  leaving  the  evangelist  in  charge,  whilst  he  visited  other 
centres  which  appeared  to  him  of  strategic  importance  for 
the  opening  of  the  province.  On  April  30,  1882,  he  wrote 
to  Mr.  Taylor  from  Shasi  on  the  Yangtze,  saying  : 

If  I  could  make  myself  into  four,  I  think  I  would  be  distributed  in 
this  way  :  one  to  Shasi,  one  to  Tsingshih,  one  to  Changteh,  and  one 
to  Hungkiang.  Can  you  do  anything  to  make  up  for  my  deficiency  ? 

Was  ever  the  need  of,  and  locality  for,  reinforcements 
put  more  diplomatically  ? 

After  visiting  a  number  of  walled  cities,  and  spending 
several  days  in  each,  he  reached  Hungkiang  again  on  June  17, 
and  settled  into  the  premises,  where  in  a  quiet  and  un 
obtrusive  way  he  carried  on  his  work  for  the  next  three  and 
a  half  months.  The  rooms  obtained  were  situated  over  an 
inn,  and  though  well  located  were  far  from  ideal  as  a  summer 
residence.  Writing  in  June,  when  the  thermometer  stood 
at  97  in  the  shade,  he  facetiously  remarks  : 

It  is  hard  to  say  how  high  it  may  rise  during  July  and  August.  Do 
not  be  surprised  if  you  hear  that  we  have  been  roasted  alive  and  .  .  .  ! 


PIONEER  WORK  IN  HUNAN  149 

As  the  autumn  advanced  it  became  evident  that  move 
ments  were  on  foot  to  eject  him,  so  he  again  withdrew  in 
October,  leaving  two  faithful  Chinese  helpers,  Yao  and  Li, 
to  hold  the  fort.  It  was  no  small  matter  for  praise  that  the 
premises  had  been  already  held  for  nine  months,  and  that 
he  himself  had  been  able  to  reside  there  more  than  a  third 
of  this  time.  Especially,  too,  he  rejoiced  in  the  fact  that 
six  or  seven  persons  had  shown  distinct  interest  in  the 
Gospel,  and  that  though  many  people  had  been  suspicious, 
not  a  few  made  him  complimentary  presents  when  he  left 
the  city. 

The  next  six  or  eight  months  were  given  solely  to  itiner 
ating,  the  province  of  Kwangsi  being  visited  during  this 
period.  How  much  he  felt  the  need  of  a  companion  will 
never  be  known,  for  he  spoke  little  of  himself,  but  upon  one 
occasion  when  he  heard  of  the  prospects  of  a  worker  being 
sent  alone  to  Kwangsi,  he  wrote  : 

I  hope  he  won't  go  there  until  he  is  able  to  have  a  companion  with 
him.  I  have  had  a  trial  at  travelling  alone,  and  I  do  not  think  it 
ought  to  be  done  when  it  can  possibly  be  avoided.  Jesus  sent  the 
twelve,  and  the  seventy,  two  and  two,  and  His  way  must  surely  be 
the  best. 

Often  during  these  journeys  he  had  to  sleep  with  his 
bed  spread  upon  some  straw  on  the  floor,  and  during  the 
period  under  review  he  had  his  head  badly  cut  with  a  brick 
hurled  at  him  when  at  Liuyanghsien.  His  only  comment 
on  these  hardships  was  the  following  sentence  : 

I  hope,  however,  even  such  experiences  may  in  some  way  glorify 
God. 

Upon  one  occasion,  and  only  one,  so  far  as  the  writer, 
after  examining  all  his  available  correspondence,  has  ascer 
tained,  did  this  strong  and  hardy  worker  give  vent  to  his 
pent-up  feelings. 

"  The  noise  in  the  inn  this  afternoon/'  he  wrote,  "  has  been  deafen 
ing.  I  long  to  be  alone  with  God  and  have  a  time  of  quiet  in  the 
strictest  sense  of  the  word.  Not  only  would  I  like  to  be  permitted 
to  spend  a  few  days  in  a  room  by  myself,  but  I  would  wish  for  wings 
that  I  might  fly  away  to  some  uninhabited  spot.  I  long  more  especially 


150  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

to  be  separate  from  all  the  noises  of  sense  and  time,  as  well  as  to  be 
apart  from  all  the  noises  and  distractions  of  this  present  world  ;  to 
be  alone  in  solitude  with  God,  so  that  with  all  my  heart  and  mind 
occupied  with  Him  only,  I  might  in  calmness  and  without  distraction 
pour  out  my  soul  to  Him  and  hear  His  voice  speaking  to  me." 

With  such  desires  it  was  natural  that  he  should  hope  he 
might  be  able  to  settle  in  the  premises  rented  at  Hungkiang, 
and  consequently  he  rejoiced  when,  at  the  conclusion  of  a 
journey  of  more  than  thirteen  hundred  miles,  he  reached 
that  city  once  more  on  July  29,  1883.  Here  he  found  the 
two  evangelists,  one  with  his  wife  and  family,  quietly  carry 
ing  on  the  work.  Thankful  even  for  the  poor  accommoda 
tion,  he  yet  recognized  the  need  of  better  premises  if  the 
work  was  to  be  efficiently  continued.  So  in  an  unostenta 
tious  way  he  sought  to  win  the  hearts  of  the  people,  and  to 
secure  a  firm  and  better  footing.  August,  September  and 
October  rolled  on,  every  day  full  of  its  quiet  ministry,  until 
at  length  in  November  his  negotiations  for  premises  were 
rewarded,  the  desired  house  being  mortgaged  for  a  term  of 
three  years.  All  the  arrangements  were  made  quite  openly 
and  regularly  ;  the  agreement  was  written  by  the  landlord 
himself,  and  the  house-deed,  bearing  the  official  stamp  Hong- 
ki,  was  handed  over.  This  was  indeed  matter  for  rejoicing, 
but  what  was  more,  the  very  week  the  deeds  came  into  his 
possession  he  received  a  letter  from  Mr.  Taylor  stating  that 
Mr.  Dick  had  been  appointed  as  his  colleague.  This  was 
surely  a  confirmation  from  God,  and  with  great  thankfulness 
he  poured  out  his  heart  in  praise.  His  high  hopes,  however, 
were  not  to  be  realized,  and  in  fact,  though  Dorward  was 
spared  to  labour  for  five  more  years  in  the  province,  he  was 
yet  to  die  in  faith,  "  not  having  received  the  promise," 
though  he  had  seen  it  and  greeted  it  from  afar. 

On  Thursday  evening,  December  13,  Mr.  Dorward's  goods 
were  removed  from  the  old  residence,  which  had  now  been 
held  for  nearly  two  years.  The  prayers  of  months  and  years 
seemed  answered,  but  the  first  rumblings  of  the  coming 
storm  were  soon  heard.  All  Saturday  and  Sunday  threats 
of  violence  were  made,  and  by  Monday  evening  no  effort  was 
spared  to  intimidate  him,  but  Dorward  was  not  the  man  to 


PIONEER  WORK  IN  HUNAN  151 

be  easily  moved.  Nothing  terrified,  he  stood  his  ground, 
arguing  and  parleying  with  the  people,  even  after  they  had 
begun  to  break  up  the  house.  He  was  determined  now  the 
storm  had  broken  to  risk  his  life  rather  than  yield  the  vantage 
gained  so  long  as  a  vestige  of  hope  remained.  But  there 
were  other  arguments  more  convincing  than  danger  to 
himself.  It  soon  became  evident  that  not  only  would  he 
suffer,  but  that  the  landlord  and  middle-men  who  had 
assisted  him  would  be  cruelly  treated  by  the  officials  and 
people,  so  he  sorrowfully  decided  to  withdraw. 

"  So  far  as  my  own  person  was  concerned/'  he  wrote,  "  I  would 
rather  have  died  than  yield,  but  I  could  not  feel  justified  in  causing 
others  to  suffer — perhaps  more  than  I  should — and  on  that  account 
I  was  led  to  act  as  I  did.  I  am  not  altogether  discouraged,  and  I  am 
ready  to  go  back  shortly,  if  God  shows  such  a  course  to  be  His  will." 

Thus  terminated  Dorward's  noble  efforts  to  effect  a 
permanent  settlement  at  Hungkiang.  Though  the  time 
had  not  yet  come  for  settled  work  in  this  province,  it  was 
no  mean  achievement  to  have  held  premises  from  January 
1882  to  December  1883,  and  that  he  himself  had  been  able 
to  reside  in  them  from  July  17  to  October  1882,  and  from 
July  29  to  December  17,  1883. 

With  this  enforced  retirement  from  Hungkiang  the 
C.I.M.  work  in  Hunan  entered  upon  a  new  stage.  Thoughts 
of  attempting  work  elsewhere  in  the  province  were  enter 
tained,  but  the  war  which  broke  out  between  France  and 
China  shortly  afterwards  made  this  impossible  so  long  as 
hostilities  continued.  Even  the  missionaries  in  the  interior 
of  Kwangtung  had  to  retire,  so  Dorward  determined  to  open 
Shasi  on  the  Yangtze,  and  if  possible  Tsingshih,  a  little  way 
south  of  the  northern  border.  Taking  with  him  his  long- 
tried  evangelist  Yao,  he  left  Wuchang  on  February  26,  1884, 
and  ere  long  secured  premises  in  Shasi,  where  Mr.  Dick 
joined  him  in  August.  Here  for  the  present  we  must  leave 
these  workers,  simply  calling  attention  to  the  accompanying 
list  of  all  the  walled  cities  of  Hunan,  and  remarking  that 
those  which  are  italicized  had  been  visited  by  Adam 
Dorward  prior  to  July  1883.  A  mere  glance  at  this  list, 


152 


THE  SECOND  DECADE 


without  further  letterpress,  will  help  the  reader  to  realize 
the  strenuous  nature  of  Adam  Dorward's  work  during  these 
early  years.1 


THE  WALLED  CITIES  OF  HUNAN 

This  list  gives  in  alphabetical  order  all  the  chief  walled 
cities  of  Hunan.  Those  italicized  had  been  visited  by 
Adam  Dorward  prior  to  July  1883. 


Anfu 

Kweiyanghsien 

Sinhwa 

Anhwa 

Lanshan 

Sinning 

Anjen 

Leiyang 

Sintien 

Ansiang 

Lichow 

Suining 

Chaling 

Liling 

Siipu 

Changning 

Ling 

Taochow 

Changsha 

Lingling 

Taoyilan 

Changteh 

Linsiang 

Tsingchow 

Chenchow 

Linwu 

Tsingtsiien 

Chengpu 

Liuyanghsien 

Tungan 

Chenki 

Luki 

Tungtao 

Chikiang 

Lungshanhsien 

Tzeli 

Fenghwangting 

Lungyang 

Wukangchow 

Hengchowfu 

Mayanghsien 

Wuling 

Hengshanhsien 

Ningsiang 

Yiyang 

Hengyang 

Ningyiianhsien 

Yochow 

Hingninghsien 

Paling 

Yiianghow 

Hwangchowting 

Packing 

Yiiankianghsien 

Hwayung 

Paotsing 

Yuenling 

Hweitung 

Pingkiang 

Yuhsien 

Ichang 

Sangchih 

Yungchowfu 

Kidho 

Shanhwa 

Yimghinghsien 

Kianghwa 

Shaoyang 

Yungming 

Kienchowting 

Shenchowfu 

Yungshun 

Kienyang 

Shihmen 

Yungshunfu 

Kiyang 

Siangsiang 

Yungsui 

Kweitunghsien 

Siangtan 

Yungting 

Kweiyangchow 

Siangyin 

1  Hunan  story  continued  in  Chapter  XXXV.  p.  230. 


XXIV 

THE  STORY  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

A  LITTLE  more  than  a  month  after  Adam  Dorward  had  set 
out  for  his  first  journey  into  Hunan,  Messrs.  J.  W.  Stevenson 
and  Henry  Soltau,  who  were  stationed  at  Bhamo,  started 
upon  a  noteworthy  journey  which  was  to  prove  how  fully 
the  doors  were  being  flung  open  into  inland  China.  Though 
Bhamo  had  been  opened  as  a  station  with  a  view  to  the  entry 
of  China  from  the  west,  the  workers  resident  there  had  been 
hitherto  prohibited  by  the  British  representative  from 
crossing  the  border,  and  Messrs.  McCarthy  and  Cameron, 
who  had  crossed  from  China  into  Burma,  had  not  been 
permitted  to  return  the  same  way.  During  the  year  1880, 
however,  these  prohibitions  were  in  part  removed  in  con 
sequence  of  the  cordial  relations  existing  between  Messrs. 
Stevenson  and  Soltau  and  the  Kah-chens  and  the  Chinese. 
In  1867-68  Major  Sladen  succeeded  in  crossing  the  hills 
through  Burma  into  China  and  penetrated  as  far  as  Tengyueh. 
The  next  attempt  to  enter  China  from  the  west  cost  the 
valuable  life  of  Augustus  Margary  in  1875.  Nothing  further 
was  attempted  or  allowed  until  early  in  1880,  when  Mr. 
Stevenson  made  an  experimental  journey  across  the  frontier, 
travelling  as  far  as  Yungchang.  Returning  to  Bhamo,  he 
and  Mr.  Soltau  started  again  on  November  29  of  the  same 
year,  and  having  entered  China  by  another  route,  travelled 
right  across  the  country,  this  being  the  first  time  China  had 
been  crossed  from  west  to  east.  Wuchang  was  reached  on 
March  25,  1881,  after  a  journey  of  1900  miles,  in  which, 
but  for  the  self-possession  and  tact  of  the  travellers,  and  the 

153 


154  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

faithful  adhesion  and  skilful  diplomacy  of  their  Kah-chen 
friends,  their  lives,  humanly  speaking,  would  have  been 
sacrificed. 

This  journey  served  to  emphasize  two  things — first,  that 
China  was  being  more  and  more  opened  to  the  Gospel,  and 
second,  that  more  stations  and  workers  were  sorely  needed  ; 
for  during  this  journey  of  117  days  only  two  Mission  centres 
had  been  passed,  namely,  Chungking  and  Ichang.  Mr. 
Soltau,  who  had  only  laboured  in  Burma,  wrote  on  February 
22,  1881,  after  having  been  continuously  travelling  for 
nearly  three  months  without  the  sight  of  a  single  place  where 
the  Gospel  was  being  preached  : 

With  what  true  feelings  of  joy  and  thanksgiving  to  God  did  I  look 
upon  this  house  (in  Chungking),  the  first  mission  station  in  China  I 
have  ever  seen.  Most  delightful  was  it  to  grasp  the  hands  of  our 
fellow-Christians  and  fellow-countrymen  after  so  many  weary  days 
(86)  of  travel,  during  which  we  had  not  met  one  Christian,  Chinese  or 
foreign. 

Such  facts  as  these  made  it  abundantly  evident  that 
what  was  needed,  indeed,  was  not  so  much  open  doors  as 
workers  to  enter  where  the  doors  had  been  opened.  Itinerant 
journeys  had  been  taken  by  single  men  in  all  of  the  un 
occupied  provinces  ;  stations  had  been  opened  in  most  of 
these,  and  missionaries'  wives  and  even  single  ladies  had 
settled  there.1  The  Mission  had  in  all  about  one  hundred 
foreign  workers,  of  whom  twenty-nine  were  wives,  located 
in  some  seventy  stations  or  out-stations  in  eleven  provinces. 
Such  a  small  company  was  obviously  insufficient  to  work 
the  places  already  occupied,  let  alone  to  enter  new  and 
needy  cities.  All  these  things  pointed  to  the  conclusion 
that  China  was  certainly  opening,  if  not  already  open. 

"  Were  the  Lord,"  wrote  Mr.  Taylor  at  this  time,  "  to  grant  us 
double  the  number  of  workers  and  double  the  means,  within  twelve 
months  we  could  have  them  all  located  and  at  work  in  needy  districts 
among  perishing  men  and  women." 

1  By  the  close  of  1881  every  city  in  Shensi  had  been  visited  by  C.I.M. 
missionaries.  The  same  was  reported  concerning  every  city  in  Shansi, 
except  two  among  the  hills. 


THE  STORY  OF  THE  SEVENTY  155 

The  value  of  all  the  itinerant  work  which  had  been  done 
was  warmly  commented  upon  by  Consul  Charles  Alabaster 
in  his  Report  published  and  presented  to  Parliament  in 
iSSo.1  In  this  Report  he  wrote  : 

You  can  travel  through  China  as  easily  and  safely  as  you  can  in 
Europe  when  and  where  you  leave  the  main  road.  .  .  .  This  improved 
state  of  affairs  is  due  to  the  fact  that  the  natives  are  becoming  more 
accustomed  to  the  presence  of  foreigners  among  them,  much  of  the 
credit  of  which  belongs  to  the  members  of  what  is  called  the  China 
Inland  Mission.  .  .  .  Always  on  the  move,  the  missionaries  of  this 
Society  have  travelled  throughout  the  country,  taking  hardship  and 
privation  as  the  natural  incidents  of  their  profession.  .  .  .  They  have 
managed  to  make  friends  everywhere,  and  while  labouring  in  their 
special  field  as  ministers  of  the  Gospel,  have  accustomed  the  Chinese 
to  the  presence  of  foreigners  among  them.  .  .  .  While  aiding  the 
foreign  merchants  by  obtaining  information  regarding  the  unknown 
interior  of  the  country  and  strengthening  our  relations  by  increasing 
our  intimacy  with  the  people,  this  Mission  has  at  the  same  time  shown 
the  true  way  of  spreading  Christianity  in  China. 

Such  was  the  situation  in  November  1881,  when  a  little 
company  of  missionaries  gathered  together  at  the  central 
city  of  Wuchang,  and  with  Mr.  Taylor  entered  into  con 
ference  concerning  the  advance  of  Christ's  Kingdom.  During 
these  days  of  happy  fellowship,  this  little  band  of  some  eight 
or  nine  workers  felt  increasingly  confirmed  in  the  principles 
on  which  the  Mission  was  founded,  so  that  with  strengthened 
faith  and  a  deepened  sense  of  the  needs  of  China  they  recog 
nized  more  fully  their  responsibility  to  ask  great  things 
from  God. 

Rising  from  their  knees  they  said  to  one  another,  "  What 
shall  we  ask  ?  "  They  knew  that  in  the  past  they  had  been 
very  definite  in  asking  God  for  open  doors,  which  prayer 
God  had  answered  ;  the  obvious  need  was  now  to  definitely 
ask  for  reinforcements.  Taking  a  sheet  of  notepaper,  they 
quietly  surveyed  in  thought  the  vast  country,  going  over 
province  by  province  and  station  by  station,  making  notes 
of  the  helpers  needed,  if  the  older  work  were  to  be  sustained 
and  the  new  openings  to  be  developed.  No  arbitrary 

1  See  China,  No.  3,  1880. 


156  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

number  was  selected,  but  the  survey  showed  the  need  to  be 
42  men  and  28  women,  or  70  workers  in  all.  The  result, 
therefore,  of  these  deliberations  was  a  determination  to 
definitely  pray  for  70  additional,  willing,  skilful  workers  for 
the  C.I.M.,  as  well  as  for  large  reinforcements  for  all  the 
Evangelical  Societies  at  work  in  China. 

In  order  to  secure  the  fellowship  of  Christians  at  home 
it  was  decided  to  draw  up  an  appeal.  This  was  done  and 
submitted  not  only  to  the  little  company  present,  but  to  all 
the  members  of  the  Mission.  In  consequence  of  the  unavoid 
able  delay  in  obtaining  the  signatures  of  distant  workers  in 
China,  the  appeal  was  not  published  immediately,  but  it 
appeared  in  China  s  Millions  for  February  1883,  with  the 
autograph  signatures  of  77  members  of  the  Mission.  The 
Appeal  was  as  follows  : 

We,  the  undersigned  members  of  the  China  Inland  Mission,  having 
had  the  privilege  of  personally  labouring  in  many  provinces  of  this 
needy  land,  and  having  seen  with  our  own  eyes  something  of  its  extent, 
and  of  the  great  spiritual  needs  of  the  untold  millions  of  its  inhabitants, 
feel  pressed  in  spirit  to  make  a  united  appeal  to  the  Churches  of  the 
living  GOD  in  Great  Britain  and  Ireland  for  earnest,  persevering 
prayer  for  more  labourers. 

We  saw  with  thankfulness  a  few  years  ago  the  generous  sympathy 
called  forth  by  a  knowledge  of  the  terrible  famine  of  the  bread  which 
perisheth  in  the  northern  provinces,  and  some  of  us  personally  took 
part  in  distributing  the  practical  fruits  of  this  sympathy  among  the 
needy  and  dying.  Many  lives  were  saved,  many  hungry  ones  were  fed, 
many  naked  ones  were  clad,  needy  and  destitute  children  were  taken  in 
and  cared  for,  some  of  whom  are  still  under  Christian  instruction. 

A  more  widespread  and  awful  famine  of  the  bread  of  life  now  exists 
to-day  in  every  province  in  China.  Souls  on  every  hand  are  perishing 
for  lack  of  knowledge  ;  more  than  a  thousand  every  hour  are  passing 
away  into  death  and  darkness.  We,  and  many  others,  have  been  sent 
by  GOD  and  by  the  Churches  to  minister  the  bread  of  life  to  these 
perishing  ones  ;  but  our  number  collectively  is  utterly  inadequate  to 
the  crying  needs  around  us.  Provinces  in  China  compare  in  area 
with  kingdoms  in  Europe,  and  average  between  ten  and  twenty 
millions  in  population.  One  province  has  no  missionary  ;  one  has 
only  one,  an  unmarried  missionary ;  in  each  of  two  other  provinces 
there  is  only  one  missionary  and  his  wife  resident ;  and  none  are 
sufficiently  supplied  with  labourers.  Can  we  leave  matters  thus  with 
out  incurring  the  sin  of  bloodguiltiness  ? 


THE  STORY  OF  THE  SEVENTY  157 

We  plead,  then,  with  the  Churches  of  GOD  at  home  collectively, 
and  with  our  brothers  and  sisters  in  Christ  individually — 

I.  To  unite  with  us  in  fervent,  effectual  prayer  that  the  Lord  of 
the  harvest  may  thrust  forth  more  labourers  into  His  harvest  in 
connection  with  every  Protestant  missionary  society  on  both  sides  of 
the  Atlantic. 

II.  A  careful  survey  of  the  spiritual  work  to  which  we  ourselves  are 
called  as  members  of  the  China  Inland  Mission  has  led  us  to  feel  the 
importance  of  immediate  and  large  reinforcements ;   and  many  of  us 
are  daily  pleading  with  GOD  in  agreed  prayer  for  forty-two  additional 
men  and  twenty-eight  additional  women,  called  and  sent  out  by  GOD 
to  assist  us  in  carrying  on  and  extending  the  work  already  committed 
to  our  charge.     We  ask  our  brothers  and  sisters  in  Christ  at  home 
to  join  us  in  praying  the  Lord  of  the  harvest  to  thrust  out  this  "  other 
seventy  also."     We  are  not  anxious  as  to  the  means  for  sending  them 
forth  or  sustaining  them.     He  has  told  us  to  look  to  the  birds  and 
flowers,  and  to  take  no  thought  for  these  things,  but  to  seek  first  the 
kingdom  of  GOD  and  His  righteousness,  and  all  these  things  shall  be 
added  unto  us.     But  we  are  concerned  that  only  men  and  women 
called  of  GOD,  fully  consecrated  to  Him,  and  counting  everything 
precious  as  "  dross  and  dung  for  the  excellency  of  the  knowledge  of 
Christ  Jesus  our  Lord,"  should  come  out  to  join  us  ;   and  we  would 
add  to  this  appeal  a  word  of  caution  and  encouragement  to  any  who 
may  feel  drawn  to  offer  themselves  for  this  blessed  work.     Of  caution, 
urging  such  to  count  the  cost,  to  prayerfully  wait  on  GOD,  to  ask 
themselves  whether  they  will  really  trust  Him  for  everything,  whenever 
He  may  call  them  to  go.     Mere  romantic  feeling  will  soon  die  out  in 
the  toilsome  labour  and  constant  discomforts  and  trials  of  inland  work, 
and  will  not  be  worth  much  when  severe  illness  arises,  and  perhaps  all 
the  money  is  gone.     Faith  in  the  living  GOD  alone  gives  joy  and  rest 
in  such  circumstances.     But  also  of  encouragement,  for  we  ourselves 
have  proved  GOD'S  faithfulness  and  the  blessedness  of  dependence  on 
Him.     He  is  supplying,  and  ever  has  supplied,  all  our  need  ;   and  if 
not  seldom  we  have  fellowship  in  poverty  with  Him  who  for  our  sakes 
became  poor,  shall  we  not  rejoice  if  the  day  proves  that  we  have  been 
like  the  great  missionary  apostle,  "  poor,  yet  making  many  rich  ; 
having  nothing,   yet  possessing  all  things  "  ?     He  makes  us   very 
happy  in  His  service,  and  those  of  us  who  have  children  desire  nothing 
better  for  them,  should  the  LORD  tarry,  than  that  they  may  be  called 
to  similar  work  and  to  similar  joys. 

May  He,  dear  Christian  friends  at  home,  ever  be  to  you  "  a  living, 
bright  reality,"  and  enable  you  to  fulfil  His  calling,  and  live  as  witnesses 
unto  Him  in  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. — Yours  faithfully  in  His 
service, 

(Here  follow  77  autograph  signatures.) 


158  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

Such  an  appeal  was  a  real  step  of  faith,  and  was  in  no 
sense  stimulated  by  any  superabundance  of  funds  in  hand  ; 
in  fact,  the  income  of  the  Mission  at  that  time  had  been 
lower  than  for  four  years,  though  the  work  was  considerably 
larger. 

"  We  feel,"  wrote  Mr.  Taylor,  "  that  if  God  saw  it  needful  to  try 
our  faith,  He  could  do  so  whether  we  were  seventy  more  or  seventy 
less,  and  if  He  were  pleased  to  supply  us  abundantly,  the  additional 
seventy  would  be  no  difficulty  to  Him." 

The  trial  of  faith  as  to  funds  continued  more  or  less 
through  the  year  1882,  and  the  last  quarter  of  that 
year  was,  so  far  as  home  remittances  for  general  purposes 
were  concerned,  perhaps  the  most  trying  quarter  hitherto 
experienced.  In  October,  when  Mr.  Taylor  was  looking 
with  special  expectancy  for  liberal  supplies,  in  view  of  the 
expenses  of  some  long  journeys,  the  letters  from  home 
were  eagerly  opened.  Instead,  however,  of  the  looked- 
for  seven  or  eight  hundred  pounds,  only  £96  19:5  was 
forthcoming. 

"  We  closed  the  envelope  again,"  wrote  Mr.  Taylor,  "  and  soon 
sought  our  closet,  and  locking  the  door  knelt  down  and  spread  the 
letter  before  the  Lord,  asking  Him  what  was  to  be  done  with  less  than 
£97,  a  sum  which  it  was  impossible  to  distribute  over  seventy  stations, 
in  which  were  eighty  or  ninety  missionaries  (including  wives),  not  to 
speak  of  about  a  hundred  Chinese  helpers,  and  over  a  hundred  Chinese 
children  to  be  boarded  and  clothed  in  our  schools.  Having  first 
ourselves  rolled  the  burden  on  the  Lord,  we  then  told  the  need  to  other 
of  our  missionaries  in  Chefoo,  and  we  unitedly  looked  to  Him  to 
come  to  our  aid,  but  let  no  hint  even  of  our  circumstances  be 
given  outside. 

"  Soon  the  answers  began  to  come  in  in  local  gifts  from  kind  friends, 
who  little  knew  the  peculiar  value  of  their  donations,  and  in  other 
ways,  and  ere  long  all  the  needs  of  the  month  were  met,  and  met 
without  our  being  burdened  for  one  hour  with  anxious  care.  We  had 
similar  experiences  in  November,  and  again  in  December,  and  on  each 
occasion,  after  spreading  the  letter  before  the  Lord,  we  left  the  burden 
with  Him  and  were  '  helped.' 

"  Finding  from  various  letters  that  some  of  our  English  friends  were 
really  concerned  about  this  (forward)  movement — afraid,  apparently, 
that  while  prayer  for  men  might  be  answered,  prayer  for  means  might 


THE  STORY  OF  THE  SEVENTY  159 

remain  unanswered — a  few  of  us  were  led  in  Chefoo  at  one  of  our  daily 
morning  prayer-meetings  to  very  definitely  request  the  Lord  to  put 
His  seal  upon  this  matter  for  the  encouragement  of  the  timid  ones. 
Not  more  than  half  a  dozen  were  present,  and  the  little  prayer-meeting 
was  held  either  during  one  of  the  last  days  of  January,  or  the  first 
days  of  February  1883.  I  regret  that  the  date  of  this  meeting  was 
not  noted  at  the  time,  but  I  sailed  from  Chefoo  on  February  5  or  6, 
and  it  must  have  been  a  few  days  before  that  time. 

-'  We  knew  that  our  Father  loves  to  please  His  children — what 
father  does  not  ?  And  we  asked  Him  lovingly  to  please  us,  as  well  as 
encourage  the  timid  ones,  by  leading  some  of  His  wealthy  stewards  to 
make  room  for  a  large  blessing  for  himself  and  his  family,  by  giving 
liberally  of  his  substance  for  this  special  object.  No  account  of  this 
prayer-meeting  was  written  home,  and  had  it  been  written  the  letter 
could  not  have  reached  England  before  the  latter  part  of  March. 
It  was  telegraphed  straight  up  to  heaven,  and  God  at  once 
telegraphed  down  the  desire  into  the  heart  of  a  willing,  skilful 
steward  who,  on  February  2,  sent  in  anonymously  £3000  for  this 
very  project. 

"  By  the  time  I  was  half  way  home,  the  tidings  of  this  gift,  conveyed 
in  a  letter  from  my  dear  wife,  then  in  England,  was  half  way  out,  and 
reached  me  at  the  port  of  Aden.  It  may  be  imagined  with  what  joy 
I  received  them. 

"  But  this  was  not  all.  When  I  reached  Marseilles,  and  went  on 
to  Cannes  to  spend  a  few  days  with  our  valued  friend,  W.  T.  Berger, 
Esq.,  the  number  of  China's  Millions  for  April  1883  reached  my  hands  ; 
and  there  I  found  in  the  list  of  donations  this  £3000,  acknowledged 
under  the  date  of  February  2,  and  the  text,  Ps.  ii.  8,  '  Ask  of  Me,  and 
I  will  give  thee  the  heathen  for  thine  inheritance,  and  the  uttermost 
parts  of  the  earth  for  thy  possession,'  as  follows  : 

Father  .  .  .  £1000 

Mother  .  .  .  1000 

Mary  .  .  .  200 

Rosie  .  .  .  200 

Bertie  .  ...  200 

Amy  .  .  .  200 

Henry  .  .  .  200 


£3°°° 

"  It  was  most  striking  to  notice  how  literally  God  had  fulfilled 
our  prayer,  and  led  His  faithful  steward  to  make  room  for  a  large  blessing 
for  himself  and  his  family.  Never  before  had  a  donation  been  received 
and  acknowledged  in  this  way,  and  never  since,  save  that  acknowledged 


i6o  THE  SECOND  DECADE 

in  the  number  of  China's  Millions  for  October  1884,  where  a  donation 
given  for  the  same  fund  is  entered  thus  : 

ist  September,  Ps.  i-i.  8. 

Father  .  .  .     £200 

Mother  .  .  .       200 

Mary  .  .  .       100 

Rosie  .  .  .100 

Bertie  .  .  .100 

Amy  .  .  .       100 

Henry  .  .  .100 

Baby  .  .  .       100 


£1000 

A  beautiful  instance  this  of  a  loving  father  who  seeks  that  each 
member  of  his  family  shall  have  treasure  in  heaven.  If  there  were 
more  such  fathers,  would  there  not  be  fewer  unbelieving  children  ?  " 

The  appeal  itself,  while  it  asked  for  prayer  for  seventy 
workers,  stated  no  time  within  which  these  were  to  be  given, 
but  some  at  least  in  China,  to  quote  Mr.  Taylor's  words, 

definitely  prayed  not  merely  that  seventy  workers  might  be  given, 
but  that  they  might  be  granted  during  the  three  years  1882-3-4. 

So  assured  was  the  little  band  of  workers  at  Wuchang 
that  this  whole  matter  in  its  conception  and  in  its  details 
was  of  God  that  a  praise  meeting  was  held  ere  the  conference 
broke  up.  In  this  confidence  none  were  put  to  shame,  for 
nine  of  the  new  helpers  were  given  in  1882,  eighteen  more 
in  1883,  and  forty-six  in  1884,  or  seventy-three  in  all ;  while 
a  further  number  were  accepted  and  would  have  sailed  had 
not  war  between  China  and  France  rendered  delay  advisable. 
To  the  praise  of  God  it  may  also  be  stated  that  the  income 
of  the  Mission  kept  pace  with  the  increased  number  of 
workers. 


THE   THIRD   DECADE 

1885-1895 

CHAP.  25.  "  THE  CAMBRIDGE  SEVEN." 

„  26.  ORGANIZATION  AND  EXPANSION. 

„  27.  THE  KWANGSIN  RIVER. 

„  28.  NORTH  AMERICA. 

„  29.  To  EVERY  CREATURE. 

„  30.  AUSTRALASIA. 

„  31.  DIVIDING  THE  FIELD. 


161  M 


I  said,  "  I  will  walk  in  the  fields." 
He  said,  "  No,  walk  in  the  town." 
I  said,  "  There  are  no  flowers  there." 
He  said,  "  No  flowers,  but  a  crown." 

I  said,  "  But  the  sky  is  black, 

There  is  nothing  but  noise  and  din." 

But  He  wept  as  He  led  me  back, 

"  There  is  more,"  He  said,  "  there  is  sin." 

I  said,  "  But  the  air  is  thick, 
And  fogs  are  veiling  the  sun." 
He  answered,  "  Yet  souls  are  sick 
And  souls  in  the  dark  undone." 

I  said,  "  I  shall  miss  the  light, 
And  friends  will  miss  me  they  say." 
He  answered,  "  Choose  to-night, 
If  I  am  to  miss  you  or  they." 

I  pleaded  for  time  to  be  given. 

He  said,  "Is  it  hard  to  decide  ? 

It  will  not  seem  hard  in  Heaven 

To  have  followed  the  steps  of  your  Guide. 

I  cast  one  look  at  the  fields, 

Then  set  my  face  to  the  town. 

He  said,  "  My  child,  do  you  yield  ? 

Will  you  leave  the  flowers  for  the  crown  ? 

Then  into  His  hand  went  mine, 
And  into  my  heart  came  He  : 
And  I  walked  in  a  light  divine 
The  path  I  had  feared  to  see. 


XXV 
"  THE  CAMBRIDGE  SEVEN  " 

FOR  twenty  years  the  work  of  the  Mission  had  slowly  grown 
and  prospered,  in  the  midst  of  many  hardships  and  trials 
not  unmixed  sometimes  with  harsh  and  even  bitter  criticisms. 
It  was  well  that  it  should  be  so,  for  the  Mission  thus  had 
time  and  opportunity  to  prove  beyond  controversy  that  its 
strength  and  security  lay  in  the  approval  and  blessing  of 
God,  and  not  in  the  smile  of  man.  With  the  year  1885  the 
comparative  obscurity  of  those  early  years  somewhat 
suddenly  gave  place  to  an  unwonted  notoriety  through  the 
remarkable  enthusiasm  evoked  throughout  the  country 
by  the  going  forth  of  the  Cambridge  Band.  In  the  eyes 
of  some  the  going  forth  of  such  a  party  was  the  chief  dis 
tinction  of  the  Mission,  but  while  gratefully  acknowledging 
all  that  such  a  gift  of  workers  meant,  nothing  can  obscure 
the  devotion  and  courage  of  the  early  pioneers,  who,  un 
affected  by  either  applause  or  criticism,  had  been  instru 
mental  in  opening  up  the  hitherto  unopened  and  unoccupied 
provinces  of  China. 

During  the  years  when  the  Seventy  were  going  forth  to 
China,  the  second  Mission  of  Messrs.  Moody  and  Sankey  in 
Great  Britain  was  preparing  the  way,  both  directly  and  in 
directly,  for  the  great  outburst  of  missionary  fervour  which 
so  fittingly  was  to  follow  the  time  of  grace  which  had  been 
manifested  in  so  many  parts  of  the  kingdom.  In  Scotland 
and  in  England,  not  only  had  many  large  centres  of  popula 
tion  been  blessed  and  helped  through  the  visits  of  these  well- 
known  evangelists,  but  the  Universities  also  had  shared  in 

163 


164  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

the  gracious  Movement.  At  Cambridge  the  Eight  Days' 
Mission  of  November  1882  had  been  the  beginning  of  a 
period  of  spiritual  uplift,  which  culminated  in  the  startling 
announcement,  during  the  October  term  of  1884,  that  the 
captain  of  the  Cricket  Eleven  and  the  stroke  of  the  'Varsity 
Eight  were  going  forth  to  China  as  missionaries.  At  this 
time  only  three  or  four  of  the  Seven  had  offered  for  the 
Foreign  Field,  but  the  others  were  to  follow. 

The  formation  of  the  Band  of  the  now  well-known  Seven 
extended  over  the  greater  part  of  a  year.  The  first  to  meet 
the  London  Council  was  Mr.  D.  E.  Hoste  on  February  26, 
1884  ;  the  second  was  Mr.  Stanley  P.  Smith  on  April  i  of 
the  same  year  ;  next  came  the  Rev.  W.  W.  Cassels  on 
October  7  ;  and  Mr.  C.  T.  Studd  on  November  4.  The 
probable  departure  in  December  of  the  first  three  of  these, 
in  company  with  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor,  was  announced  in 
China  s  Millions  for  November,  during  which  month  the 
Farewell  Meetings,  mentioned  above,  were  held  at  both 
Oxford  and  Cambridge.1  These  meetings  led  to  increased 
interest,  and  ere  the  party  sailed  on  February  5,  1885, 
Messrs.  Montagu  Beauchamp  and  the  two  brothers  Cecil 
and  Arthur  Polhill-Turner  had  joined  the  Band.  The 
extraordinary  manifestations  of  interest  and  sympathy 
awakened  throughout  the  country  were  occasioned  by  the 
personnel  of  the  party.  Mr.  C.  T.  Studd  had  been  captain 
of  the  Cambridge  University  Eleven  in  1883,  and  was  also 
a  prominent  member  of  the  All  -  England  Eleven  ;  Mr. 
Stanley  Smith  had  been  stroke  of  the  Cambridge  Eight  in 
1882  ;  the  Rev.  W.  W.  Cassels  was  curate  of  All  Saints, 
South  Lambeth  ;  Mr.  D.  E.  Hoste  had  been  an  officer  in  the 
Royal  Artillery  ;  Mr.  Montagu  Beauchamp  was  a  nephew 
of  the  late  Lord  Radstock  and  stroke  of  one  of  the  Cambridge 
Trial  Eights  ;  Mr.  Cecil  H.  Polhill-Turner  was  an  officer  in 
the  2nd  Dragoon  Guards,  or  Queen's  Bays  ;  and  his  brother, 

1  It  is  interesting  to  contrast  the  enthusiasm  of  1884  with  the  caution 
of  1818.  In  the  Life  of  Henry  Venn,  p.  14,  the  following  quotation  occurs  : 
"  Simeon  says  in  a  letter  (Nov.  30,  1818)  :  '  You  will  be  surprised  to  hear 
that  we  have  just  had  a  public  meeting  for  the  Missionary  Society.  I 
trembled  when  it  was  proposed  and  recommended  the  most  cautious 
proceeding.'  " 


"  THE  CAMBRIDGE  SEVEN  "  165 

Mr.  Arthur  T.  Polhill-Turner  was,  after  graduating  at  the 
University,  reading  for  Holy  Orders  at  Ridley  Hall. 

"  The  influence  of  such  a  band  of  men  going  to  China  as  mission 
aries/'  wrote  Dr.  Eugene  Stock  in  the  History  of  the  Church  Missionary 
Society,  "  was  irresistible.  No  such  event  had  occurred  before  ;  and 
no  event  of  the  century  has  done  so  much  to  arouse  the  minds  of 
Christian  men  to  the  tremendous  claims  of  the  Field,  and  the  nobility 
of  the  missionary  vocation.  The  gift  of  such  a  band  to  the  China 
Inland  Mission — truly  it  was  a  gift  from  God — was  a  just  reward  to 
Mr.  Hudson  Taylor  and  his  colleagues  for  the  genuine  unselfishness 
with  which  they  had  always  pleaded  the  cause  of  China  and  the 
world,  and  not  of  their  own  particular  organization,  and  for  the  deep 
spirituality  which  had  always  marked  their  meetings.  And  that 
spirituality  marked  most  emphatically  the  densely-crowded  meetings 
in  different  places  at  which  these  seven  men  said  farewell.  They  told, 
modestly  and  yet  fearlessly,  of  the  Lord's  goodness  to  them,  and  of 
the  joy  of  serving  Him ;  and  they  appealed  to  young  men,  not  for 
their  Mission,  but  for  their  Divine  Master.  No  such  missionary 
meetings  had  ever  been  known  as  the  farewell  gathering  at  Exeter 
Hall  on  February  4,  1885.  We  have  become  familiar  since  then  with 
meetings  more  or  less  of  the  same  type,  but  it  was  a  new  thing  then." 

During  the  few  weeks  immediately  preceding  the  de 
parture  of  these  workers,  Messrs.  Stanley  Smith  and  Studd, 
in  company  with  Mr.  Reginald  Radcliffe,  held  meetings 
at  Liverpool,  Aberdeen,  Edinburgh,  Glasgow,  Greenock, 
Newcastle,  Leeds,  Rochdale,  Manchester,  Bristol,  and  other 
towns.  At  one  of  these  meetings  sixty  persons  professed 
conversion.  At  Edinburgh  the  interest  was  extraordinary. 

Opposition  and  criticism  were  alike  disarmed,  and  professors  and 
students  together  were  seen  in  tears,  to  be  followed  in  the  after- 
meeting  by  the  glorious  sight  of  professors  dealing  with  students,  and 
students  with  one  another. 

Of  the  Farewell  Meetings,  held  at  the  Conference  Hall 
Eccleston  Street,  at  Cambridge,  at  Oxford,  and  finally,  on 
the  eve  of  departure,  at  Exeter  Hall,  no  description  can 
convey  to  those  not  present  any  adequate  idea  of  the 
enthusiasm  shown. 

As  an  evidence  of  the  interest  aroused,  it  may  be 
mentioned  that  the  circulation  of  the  issue  of  China's 
Millions  which  contained  the  report  of  the  Exeter  Hall 


166  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

meeting  rose  from  twelve  thousand  to  fifty  thousand  copies, 
and  all  of  these  were  sold.  Still  the  demand  continued,  and 
two  thousand  sets  of  several  numbers  of  China's  Millions, 
containing  further  news  concerning  the  voyage  and  first 
days  in  China,  were  published  in  book  form,  and  were  quickly 
disposed  of.  This  led  to  the  preparation  by  Mr.  Benjamin 
Broomhall  of  a  book  entitled  The  Missionary  Band  :  A 
Record  of  Consecration  and  an  Appeal.  Of  this  fifteen 
thousand  copies  were  rapidly  sold,  and  a  copy  was  graciously 
accepted  by  Her  Majesty  Queen  Victoria.  An  enlarged  and 
improved  edition  under  the  title  of  The  Evangelization  of 
the  World  l  was  prepared  and  also  found  great  acceptance. 
A  copy  of  this  book  was  sent  by  Sir  George  Williams,  with  a 
personal  letter,  to  every  Y.M.C.A.  in  the  United  Kingdom, 
and  was  doubtless  part  of  God's  preparation  for  the  sub 
sequent  enlargement  of  the  Mission. 

The  times  of  blessing  experienced  in  England  were 
repeated  in  China  at  meetings  held  at  Shanghai,  Tientsin, 
and  Peking,  though  at  Shanghai  the  party  divided — Messrs. 
Studd  and  Cecil  and  Arthur  Polhill  leaving  for  Hanchungfu, 
while  Messrs.  Stanley  Smith,  Hoste  and  Cassels  proceeded 
to  Shansi,  via  Peking,  Mr.  Montagu  Beauchamp  following 
later.  One  result  of  the  meetings  at  Peking  was  an  appeal 
for  special  and  united  prayer  for  the  outpouring  of  the  Holy 
Spirit.  This  appeal  was  signed  by  twenty-five  missionaries 
at  Peking,  and  was  sent  to  all  the  Mission  stations  in  China. 

"  If  we  would  all  unite/'  it  concluded,  "  have  we  not  faith  to 
believe  that  God  would  shake  China  with  His  power  ?  " 

The  limits  of  this  volume  will  not  permit  us  to  follow  in 
any  detail  the  movements  of  these  workers.  In  Shansi,  to 
which  the  four  already  mentioned  were  designated,  there 
were  only  three  Mission  stations  :  Taiyuanfu  and  Pingyangfu 
occupied  by  the  C.I.M.,  and  Taiku  worked  by  the  American 

1  Dr.  Eugene  Stock  has  written  :  "  The  Evangelization  of  the  World 
was,  in  my  judgment,  a  masterpiece  of  editing,  and  I  do  not  doubt  that  its 
circulation  gave  great  impetus  to  the  missionary  cause."  Dr.  Robert 
Speer  has  publicly  stated  that,  apart  from  the  Bible,  no  books  have  so 
influenced  his  career  as  Dr.  Blaikie's  Personal  Life  of  Livingstone  and 
Broomhall's  Evangelization  of  the  World. 


"  THE  CAMBRIDGE  SEVEN  "  167 

Board.  In  and  around  Pingyangfu  the  remarkable  work 
associated  with  the  name  of  Pastor  Hsi  was  in  its  early 
stages.1  In  the  spring  of  1884,  just  a  year  before  the  arrival 
of  these  reinforcements,  there  were  about  fifty  baptized 
Church  members,  and  into  this  district  the  new  workers 
arrived  in  midsummer  1885.  Within  eight  months  four 
new  stations  had  been  opened,  and  Mr.  Studd  had  come  over 
from  Hanchungfu  to  join  the  party. 

Mr.  Hudson  Taylor  had  long  wished  and  made  many 
attempts  to  reach  Shansi,  and  at  length  found  his  way 
opened  in  the  summer  of  1886.  Accompanied  by  Mr.  Orr- 
Ewing,  and  his  son,  Herbert  Taylor,  he  reached  Taiyuanfu  on 
Saturday  July  3,  where  they  were  warmly  welcomed  by  Dr. 
and  Mrs.  Edwards,  and  by  the  other  workers,  among  whom 
were  Mr.  Taylor's  niece  and  nephew,  Gertrude  and  Hudson 
Broomhall.  As  the  workers  from  the  south  of  the  province 
had  already  reached  the  capital,  a  Conference  was  held  from 
Monday  July  5  to  Wednesday  July  14,  which  period  proved 
to  be  "  days  of  blessing  "  2  and  spiritual  refreshment. 

From  Taiyuanfu  some  of  the  company  proceeded  south 
to  Hungtung,  where  they  were  joined  by  Mr.  Stevenson, 
who  had  travelled  overland  from  Shensi.  Similar  meetings 
were  held  here  during  the  first  two  days  of  August,  there 
being  also  over  a  hundred  Chinese  Christians  present.  On 
the  second  day  of  this  Chinese  Conference,  Mr.  Hsi  wras 
ordained  Superintendent  Pastor,  but  without  any  definition 
of  district  since  his  work  was  so  extensive  ;  Mr.  Sung  was 
set  apart  as  Pastor  of  the  Pingyangfu  church  ;  two  other 
leading  Christians  were  appointed  as  elders,  and  sixteen 
more  as  deacons.  At  the  sacred  Ordinance  of  the  Lord's 
Supper,  which  followed  this  solemn  setting  apart  of  Church 
Officers,  over  seventy  were  present,  Pastor  Hsi  presiding 
and  Stanley  Smith  giving  the  address  on  "  This  do  in 
remembrance  of  Me." 

On  the  4th  and  5th  of  August  a  similar  Conference  was 

1  See  Pastor  Hsi  :    Confucian  Scholar  and  Christian,  by  Mrs.  Howard 
Taylor  (Morgan  &  Scott,  Ltd.). 

2  A  report  of  this  Conference  was  compiled  by  Mr.  Montagu  Beauchamp, 
and  published  under  the  title  Days  of  Blessing  in  Inland  China  (Morgan 
&  Scott,  Ltd.). 


168  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

held  at  Pingyangfu,  when  Mr.  Ch'u  was  ordained  as  Pastor 
of  the  Taning  and  Sichow  districts,  and  five  more  Deacons 
were  set  apart.  Space  fails  us  to  follow  further  the  work  in 
Shansi.  Station  after  station  was  opened,  one  of  these, 
Hwochow  being  opened  by  the  devotion  of  Mrs.  Hsi,  who 
resolutely  sold  her  jewellery  and  other  much-prized  posses 
sions  to  meet  the  expenses. 

Messrs.  Cassels  and  Beauchamp  subsequently  left  the 
province  for  work  in  Szechwan,  where,  with  the  two  brothers, 
Cecil  and  Arthur  Polhill,  their  chief  life-work  has  been 
accomplished.  On  October  18,  1895,  the  Rev.  W.  W. 
Cassels  was  consecrated  Bishop  in  Western  China,  with  the 
cordial  approval  of  both  the  C.I.M.,  and  the  C.M.S.,  which 
latter  Society  guaranteed  the  Episcopal  stipend,  and  in  this 
office  he  has  won  the  warm  love  and  cordial  esteem  of  all  his 
brethren.  Mr.  Beauchamp  distinguished  himself  as  an 
ardent  pioneer-evangelist ;  Mr.  Cecil  Polhill  from  the  first 
manifested  especial  interest  in  the  needs  of  Tibet,  and  passed 
through  a  serious  riot  at  Sungpan  in  the  course  of  his  labours  ; 
Mr.  Arthur  Polhill  has,  with  a  quiet  persistence,  worked  on 
at  the  all-important  routine  of  station  duties. 

In  Shansi  Mr.  Stanley  Smith  subsequently  left  the 
Hungtung  district  for  the  east  of  the  province,  where  he  has 
laboured  ever  since,  his  fine  gifts  as  an  orator  being  greatly 
appreciated  by  the  Chinese  ;  Mr.  C.  T.  Studd  also  laboured 
with  much  devotion  in  the  east  of  the  same  province  until 
failure  of  health  compelled  him  to  withdraw  to  other  more 
favourable  climates  ;  while  Mr.  D.  E.  Hoste  continued  for 
nearly  ten  years  the  valued  and  trusted  colleague  of  Pastor 
Hsi,  until  the  death  of  that  devoted  Chinese  leader  on 
February  19,  1896.  Shortly  after  Pastor  Hsi's  death, 
Mr.  Hoste  left  for  a  much-needed  furlough  during  which  he 
visited  Australia.  Instead  of  returning  to  Shansi,  on  his 
return  to  the  field,  he  was  appointed  to  Honan,  where  he 
worked  as  Superintendent  of  the  province,  until  in  1900,  in 
consequence  of  Mr.  Taylor's  failure  in  health,  he  settled  in 
Shanghai,  that  he  might  strengthen  the  hands  of  Mr. 
Stevenson  during  the  strain  of  the  terrible  days  of  the  Boxer 
outbreak.  In  the  following  March,  Mr.  Hoste  was  appointed 


"  THE  CAMBRIDGE  SEVEN  "  169 

Acting  General  Director,  and  subsequently  General  Director 
of  the  Mission,  as  will  be  recorded  in  a  later  chapter. 

Sufficient  has  been  said  to  show  that  the  Cambridge  Band 
was  indeed  God's  gift  to  the  Mission,  and  it  is  a  remarkable 
fact  that  after  the  lapse  of  thirty  years,  the  Band  is  still 
unbroken.  As  we  write  six  of  the  seven  are  actually  in  the 
Mission  field,  while  the  remaining  member  would  also  be 
there  did  circumstances  permit. 


XXVI 
ORGANIZATION  AND  EXPANSION 

IF  the  year  1885,  when  the  Cambridge  Band  sailed,  may  be 
characterized  as  one  of  popularity  at  home,  the  year  1886 
may  be  remembered  as  one  of  organization  on  the  field,  and 
the  year  1887  as  one  of  unprecedented  expansion  through 
the  going  forth  of  the  Hundred.  When  the  Appeal  for  the 
Seventy  was  drawn  up  at  Wuchang,  at  the  close  of  1881, 
there  were  less  than  seventy  members  of  the  Mission  ; 
whereas,  by  the  close  of  1885  this  number  had  increased 
to  one  hundred  and  seventy-seven,  with  a  corresponding 
advance  in  all  other  departments  of  work.  During  these 
years  of  progress  Mr.  Taylor  had  been  more  and  more  im 
pressed  with  the  importance  and  urgency  of  more  thoroughly 
organizing  the  work  on  the  field. 

In  the  spring  of  1883,  after  an  absence  of  four  years  in 
China,  Mr.  Taylor  returned  to  England,  and  after  prolonged 
thought  and  prayer,  embodied  in  a  circular  letter,  which  was 
sent  to  all  members  of  the  Mission,  his  proposals  for  the 
future  of  the  work  in  China.  This  letter,  which  was  dated 
August  24,  1883,  proposed  among  other  things  the  division 
of  the  field  into  Mission  districts  ;  the  appointment  of  super 
intendents  over  these  districts,  and  the  formation  of  a  China 
Council,  to  be  composed  of  these  superintendents,  with  the 
Director  or  his  Deputy  as  Chairman. 

In  January  1885,  Mr.  Taylor,  after  having  carefully 
discussed  his  plans  with  the  Council  in  London,  returned  to 
China  with  the  definite  object  of  developing  this  proposed 
scheme  of  organization.  Though  impeded  by  various  causes, 

170 


ORGANIZATION  AND  EXPANSION  171 

one  of  which  was  the  sickness  or  absence  on  furlough  of  some 
of  the  older  workers,  ten  of  the  senior  members  of  the 
Mission  were  either  nominated  or  appointed  to  superintend 
the  work  in  larger  or  smaller  districts.  Eight  of  these  ten 
had  been  successful  workers  in  the  field  for  periods  varying 
from  eleven  to  twenty-four  years,  while  the  other  two  had 
been  two  or  three  times  as  long  in  China  as  those  who  were 
working  under  their  supervision.1 

What  was  of  even  greater  moment  than  the  selection  of 
a  Council  was  the  appointment  of  a  Deputy  Director  in 
China  who  could  visit  the  stations  on  Mr.  Taylor's  behalf, 
or  act  as  Chairman  of  the  Council  or  Director  of  the  work  in 
China  during  his  absence.  The  choice  for  this  responsible 
position  fell  upon  Mr.  John  Whiteford  Stevenson,  who,  after 
nearly  twenty  years  of  varied  experience  in  China  returned 
to  the  field  in  December  1885,  with  the  expectation  of 
proceeding  to  the  province  of  Yunnan.  At  Mr.  Taylor's 
request,  however,  he  remained  in  Shanghai,  at  first  to  give 
some  much-needed  temporary  assistance,  and  then  as  a 
travelling  Deputy  to  undertake  a  number  of  extensive 
journeys.  In  this  work  he  was  much  prospered,  and  so 
fully  obtained  the  goodwill  and  confidence  of  his  brethren 
that  the  larger  and  permanent  appointment  followed,  in 
which  post  for  nearly  thirty  years  Mr.  Stevenson  has,  with 
unsparing  devotion,  sometimes  in  times  of  special  stress  and 
strain,  spent  himself  in  the  service  of  his  brethren. 

Shortly  after  Mr.  Stevenson's  departure  for  the  journeys 
mentioned  above,  Mr.  Taylor  also  set  forth,  and  during  the 
months  from  May  to  October  1886,  he  visited  the  work  in 
no  less  than  nine  provinces.  Of  his  journey  down  the 
Kwangsin  River  fuller  reference  will  be  made  in  our  next 
chapter ;  while  of  the  organization  of  the  Chinese  Church 
in  Shansi  we  have  already  spoken.  In  Shansi,  it  will  be 
remembered,  Mr.  Stevenson,  who  was  travelling  from  the 
west,  had  joined  Mr.  Taylor's  party,  which  had  travelled 

1  The  names  of  these  superintendents,  with  the  dates  of  their  arrival 
in  China  are  :  J.  J.  Meadows,  1862  ;  J.  W.  Stevenson,  1866  ;  J.  M'Carthy, 
1867  ;  B.  Bagnali,  1873  ;  F.  W.  Bailer,  1873  ;  J.  Cameron,  1875  ;  G.  W. 
Clarke,  1875  ;  G.  F.  Easton,  1875  ;  A.  C.  Dorward,  1878  ;  W.  Cooper,  1881. 


172  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

from  the  east,  upon  the  memorable  occasion  of  the  ordination 
of  Pastor  Hsi. 

During  these  days  of  blessing  in  Shansi,  Mr.  Stevenson 
received  a  great  spiritual  uplift,  and  in  a  letter  addressed 
to  Mrs.  Taylor,  and  written  ere  he  left  the  province,  he 
wrote  : 

We  are  greatly  encouraged  out  here,  and  are  definitely  asking  and 
receiving  by  faith  definite  blessing  for  this  hungry  and  thirsty  land. 
We  are  fully  expecting  at  least  a  hundred  fresh  labourers  to  arrive  in 
China  in  1887.  .  .  . 

At  the  conclusion  of  these  journeys  Mr.  Taylor  and 
Mr.  Stevenson,  with  five  of  the  Provincial  Superintendents, 
met  in  the  prefectural  city  of  Anking  for  the  first  meeting  of 
the  newly-formed  China  Council.1  Before  the  discussion  of 
definite  business  several  days  were  devoted  to  prayer  and 
fasting.  At  one  of  the  gatherings  for  prayer  Mr.  Stevenson 
reiterated  the  thought  suggested  in  his  letter  from  Shansi, 
saying,  "  Shall  we  not  pray  for  immediate  reinforcements — 
a  hundred  new  workers  during  the  coming  year  ?  "  There 
was  indeed  abundant  need,  as  all  present  too  sadly  knew. 
This  great  request  was  laid  before  God,  and  among  the  things 
discussed  at  the  subsequent  Council  meetings,  which  lasted 
from  November  13  to  26,  was  a  uniform  plan  of  study  for 
future  candidates,  and  the  appointment  of  two  Training 
Institutions,  one  for  men  at  Anking,  and  one  for  women  at 
Yangchow. 

On  the  day  before  this  first  session  of  the  China  Council 
closed,  Mr.  Stevenson,  at  Mr.  Taylor's  request,  sent  out  a 
circular  letter  to  all  the  members  of  the  Mission,  reminding 
them  of  the  Day  of  Prayer  and  Fasting  on  December  31. 
This  letter,  dated  November  25,  1886,  closes  as  follows  : 

The  coming  out  of  twenty-two  new  workers — five  of  whom  are 
self-supporting — this  year,  is  in  itself  no  small  cause  for  thanksgiving. 
Our  needs  are,  however,  so  great  that  this  increase  has  appeared  as 


1  Only  a  few  weeks  before  these  Council  Meetings,  the  Chinese  Govern 
ment  had  issued  an  Edict  of  Religious  Toleration,  which  was  no  small 
subject  for  encouragement  and  thanksgiving. 


ORGANIZATION  AND  EXPANSION  173 

nothing,  and  I  would  suggest  that  definite  prayer  for  no  less  than  one 
hundred  new  workers  during  1887  be  offered  on  our  fast  day,  and  also 
that  it  may  be  a  subject  of  daily  prayer  afterwards.  "  Hitherto  ye 
have  asked  nothing  in  My  Name  ;  ask,  and  ye  shall  receive,  that  your 
joy  may  be  full." 

At  the  close  of  these  Council  Meetings,  Mr.  Taylor  and 
Mr.  Stevenson  proceeded  from  Anking  to  Takutang,  whence 
they  cabled  the  following  message  to  London  in  December  : 

Banded  prayer  next  year  hundred  new  workers  send  soon  as 
possible. 

Meanwhile  Mr.  Bailer,  with  the  assistance  of  Mr.  Landale 
and  four  competent  Chinese  teachers,  commenced  the 
preparation  of  a  book  to  aid  new  beginners  in  the  study  of 
the  language.  This  was  the  first  edition  of  the  now  well- 
known  Bailer's  Mandarin  Primer. 

A  hundred  new  workers  in  one  year  was  a  great  request, 
and  one  which  was  to  tax  severely  the  workers  in  the  Home 
Department,  as  well  as  to  call  for  a  very  substantial  enlarge 
ment  of  income.  Yet  God  who  had  led  to  the  prayer  being 
offered  gave  the  faith  that  He  would  answer. 

"  We  have  been  led  to  pray  for  one  hundred  new  workers  this 
year,"  said  Mr.  Taylor  at  the  Annual  Meetings  in  London  on  May  26, 
1887.  "  We  have  the  sure  word  '  Whatsoever  ye  shall  ask  in  My 
Name,  I  will  do  it,  that  the  Father  may  be  glorified  in  the  Son.'  Rest 
ing  on  this  promise,  it  would  not  have  added  to  our  confidence  one 
whit,  if,  when  we  began  to  pray  in  November,  my  brother-in-law, 
Mr.  Broomhall,  had  sent  me  out  a  printed  list  of  one  hundred  accepted 
candidates.  We  had  been  spending  some  days  in  fasting  and  prayer 
for  guidance  and  blessing  before  the  thought  was  first  suggested  to  our 
mind.  We  began  the  matter  aright — with  God — and  we  are  quite 
sure  that  we  shall  end  aright.  .  .  .  Whether  God  will  give  His  '  ex 
ceeding  abundantly '  by  sending  us  more  than  the  literal  hundred, 
or  whether  by  stirring  up  other  branches  of  the  Church  to  send  many 
hundreds — which  I  would  greatly  prefer — or  whether  by  awakening 
a  missionary  enthusiasm  all  over  the  Church,  and  blessing  the  whole 
world  through  it,  I  do  not  know.  I  hope  that  He  will  answer  prayer 
in  all  these  ways  ;  but  sure  I  am  that  God  will  do  it  handsomely." 

And  God  did  answer  prayer,  for  the  close  of  the  year  saw 
all  the  hundred  workers  either  in  China,  or  on  their  way 


i74  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

thither.  And  of  this  number  it  may  be  mentioned  three 
were  the  pioneers  of  the  Bible  Christian  Mission  in  China, 
which  Mission  for  some  years  worked  in  association  with  the 
C.I.M.  Especially  encouraging  was  the  way  in  which  God 
supplied  the  funds,  for  with  the  great  pressure  occasioned 
by  a  careful  examination  of  several  hundred  candidates  who 
applied,  the  task  might  have  proved  too  great  had  the  sudden 
rise  in  the  income  from  £22,000  to  £33,700  come  through  a 
large  number  of  small  gifts.  Of  this  sum,  however,  eleven 
contributions — the  smallest  of  which  was  £500  and  the  largest 
£2500  —  supplied  no  less  than  £10,000.  A  few  details 
as  to  some  of  these  gifts  may  be  recorded  for  the  glory  of 
God,  for  while  the  smallest  gifts  are  valued,  in  this  case 
special  prayer  had  been  made  that  some  large  donations 
might  be  received  for  the  special  needs  of  so  large  a  party. 
Further,  some  of  the  larger  gifts  were  directly  connected 
with  a  widow's  mite. 

Shortly  after  the  receipt  of  the  cable  from  China,  report 
ing  prayer  for  the  hundred  new  workers,  the  late  Mr.  T.  A. 
Denny  invited  Mr.  Broomhall,  then  Secretary  of  the  Mission, 
to  breakfast  with  him  in  his  West  End  home.  About  eight 
persons  in  all  were  present,  and  during  the  meal  many 
questions  were  asked  concerning  the  work  of  God  in  China. 
When  answering  these,  Mr.  Broomhall  took  from  his  pocket  a 
letter  he  had  received  from  a  poor  widow,  who  out  of  her 
poverty  frequently  sent  gifts  to  the  Mission.  The  self- 
denial  of  this  widow,  who  said  she  could  do  without  meat 
but  the  heathen  could  not  do  without  the  Gospel,  came,  so 
Mr.  J.  E.  Mathieson,  who  was  present,  said,  "  as  a  shock  to 
our  personal  self-indulgence."  At  the  close  of  the  meal,  the 
host  stated  that  all  he  had  ever  given  to  God's  work  had 
not  cost  him  a  mutton  chop.  He  had  chiefly  helped  work 
at  home,  but  he  would  now  like  to  do  something  for  the 
Foreign  Field,  and  he  thereupon  promised  £500  to  the  work 
of  the  C.I.M.  This  voluntary  offering  led  to  a  private  con 
versation  round  the  table,  with  the  result  that  three  others 
decided  to  make  a  similar  gift,  whilst  a  fourth  friend,  who 
had  been  invited,  but  had  been  unable  to  come,  decided  to 
do  the  same,  so  that  that  somewhat  impromptu  breakfast 


ORGANIZATION  AND  EXPANSION  175 

party  contributed  no  less  than  £2500  at  the  very  outset  of 
this  new  movement. 

On  the  day  of  the  Annual  Meetings  of  the  same  year,  a 
cable  from  China  told  of  a  gift  of  £1000  made  out  there, 
while  a  letter  from  Mr.  Berger,  read  at  the  same  Annual 
Meeting,  announced  a  gift  of  £500  in  thanksgiving  to  God 
for  all  that  He  had  condescended  to  do  through  the  Mission, 
whilst  notice  was  also  given  of  another  gift  of  £2000  to  be 
paid  in  on  July  i.  Thus  in  many  ways,  and  through  many 
channels  God  supplied  the  necessary  means,  and  set  his 
seal  to  the  going  forth  of  these  workers. 

It  may  not  be  without  interest  to  record  that  after  a 
lapse  of  twenty-seven  years,  an  analysis  shows  that  of  the 
hundred  who  sailed  in  1887,  seven  laid  down  their  lives 
during  the  Boxer  crisis  ;  sixteen  others  have  been  called  to 
Higher  Service  by  natural  death ;  twenty-eight  have  on 
account  of  health  or  other  causes  retired  ;  while  forty-nine 
are  still  in  the  Foreign  Field,  thirty-eight  of  these  being  still 
connected  with  the  China  Inland  Mission. 


XXVII 
THE  KWANGSIN  RIVER 

THOUGH  there  are  now  not  a  few  Mission  stations  in  the 
Foreign  Field  where  only  lady  workers  reside,  there  is 
probably  no  sphere  of  Women's  Work  quite  comparable  to 
that  on  the  Kwangsin  River.  The  Kwangsin  River,  rising 
among  the  hills  of  West  Chekiang,  runs  for  about  two  hundred 
miles  through  the  north-east  of  the  province  of  Kiangsi, 
until  it  empties  itself  into  the  Poyang  Lake.  Throughout 
this  entire  region  all  the  Mission  stations  are  worked  by 
women  only,  and  this  experiment,  if  such  it  may  be  called, 
has  been  signally  owned  and  blessed  of  God. 

It  was  somewhat  of  a  new  departure  when,  in  the  Lammer- 
muir  party  of  1866,  six  single  ladies  sailed  for  China  with  a 
view  to  working  inland,  but  the  appointment  of  such  a 
separate  sphere  for  women's  work,  as  was  the  case  on  the 
Kwangsin  River,  was  an  even  greater  innovation.  That  it 
came  to  be  so  was  mainly  from  the  fact  that  there  were  no 
men  to  appoint — "  We  have  had  no  men  to  spare  for  the 
fifteen  millions  of  Kiangsi,"  wrote  Mr.  Talyor — and  so  the 
question  which  had  to  be  faced  was,  shall  this  district  be  left 
without  the  Gospel,  or  shall  the  messengers  of  Peace  be 
women  ?  The  latter  of  these  alternatives  needed  some 
courage  and  independence  on  the  part  of  the  leader,  and  also 
on  the  part  of  those  who  volunteered  to  go,  but  the  thought 
of  leaving  so  needy  a  sphere  without  the  Gospel  was  un 
thinkable.  And  so  the  venture  was  made  and  has  been  more 
than  justified. 

The  story  of  Captain  Yii's  work,  which  led  to  the  opening 

176 


THE  KWANGSIN  RIVER  177 

up  of  Yiishan,  and  the  early  itinerations  of  Mr.  Cardwell 
have  already  been  told  in  earlier  chapters.1  It  will  be 
remembered  that  after  Mr.  Taylor's  journey  down  the 
Kwangsin  River  in  1880,  when  the  three  out-stations  of 
Yiishan,  Hokow,  and  Kweiki  were  visited,  the  work  had 
been  somewhat  rearranged,  the  superintendence  of  the  two 
former  of  these  stations  being  placed  in  the  hands  of  Mr. 
Randle,  who  resided  at  Chuchowfu,  and  the  care  of  the 
latter  remaining  with  Mr.  Cardwell,  who  was  stationed  at 
Takutang.  During  the  nearly  six  years  which  had  elapsed 
since  that  arrangement  was  made,  comparatively  little  had 
been  done  for  these  small  centres  of  light.  They  had  been 
visited  occasionally  by  the  missionaries  in  charge,  but  there 
had  been  no  worker  to  spare  to  commence  settled  work  upon 
this  river. 

Meanwhile  God  was  blessing  the  deputation  work  of 
Mr.  M'Carthy  while  at  home  on  furlough,  and  calling  out  a 
number  of  lady  workers,  some  of  whom  were  to  dedicate  their 
lives  to  this  needy  region.  The  last  party  of  the  Seventy, 
which  sailed  for  China  in  October  1884,  was  composed  of 
ladies  under  the  escort  of  the  Misses  Murray.  Of  this  band 
of  workers  six  came  from  Glasgow  and  three  from  England. 
In  the  autumn  of  1885,  two  of  this  party,  the  Misses 
Mackintosh  and  Gibson,  were  appointed  to  the  station  of 
Chuchowfu,  where  Captain  Yii  had  been  converted,  and 
where  the  work  was  then  in  the  care  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  D. 
Thompson.  After  a  busy  autumn  and  winter  Miss  Gibson 
went  for  a  brief  change  to  the  out-station  of  Changshan, 
but  instead  of  finding  rest,  she  was  almost  overwhelmed 
with  opportunities  of  service  among  the  women.  The  effect 
of  this  brief  visit  was  such  that  the  local  Christians  spontane 
ously  contributed  ten  dollars  towards  the  renovation  of  the 
Mission  premises  with  the  hope  of  securing  a  settled  worker 
in  their  midst.  Such  an  experience  promised  well  for 
similar  work  elsewhere,  and  when  Mr.  Taylor  about  the  same 
time  visited  the  city  of  Yangchow  in  Kiangsu,  which  was 
then  a  ladies'  station,  he  was  delighted  with  what  he  saw. 
The  Chinese  women,  and  even  some  ladies  of  position,  had 

1  See  Chapter  XXI.  page  136  for  beginnings  of  Kwangsin  River  work. 

N 


178  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

begun  to  look  upon  their  foreign  sisters  quite  in  the  light  of 
friends.  Some  of  the  Chinese  homes  had  been  opened  not 
only  to  occasional  visits  but  for  regular  services.  Altogether 
the  aspect  of  the  work  was  such  as  to  encourage  a  new 
departure  in  women's  work. 

In  the  spring  of  1886,  only  a  few  weeks  after  this  visit 
to  Yangchow  and  Miss  Gibson's  brief  stay  in  the  out- 
station  of  Changshan,  Mr.  Taylor  started  on  his  second 
journey  down  the  Kwangsin  River,  accompanied  by  his 
son  Herbert,  Mr.  Thompson,  and  with  five  of  the  1884  ladies' 
party,  the  Misses  C.  K.  and  M.  Murray,  Mackintosh,  Gray, 
and  Webb.  From  Changshan  the  party  proceeded  by  sedan 
chairs  to  cross  the  watershed  from  the  head  waters  of  the 
Tsientang  River  to  those  of  the  Kwangsin  River.  After  this 
rough  journey  of  some  thirty  English  miles,  Yiishan  was 
reached,  where  the  evangelist  extended  a  hearty  welcome 
to  the  party.  Several  days  were  spent  here,  and  on  Sunday 
a  little  company  of  some  thirty  Christians,  some  from  con 
siderable  distances,  gathered  together.  It  was  good  to  find 
that  of  the  thirty-six  at  this  centre  who  had  been  baptized 
from  the  commencement,  thirty-three  were  still  in  fellowship. 
For  years  they  had  been  praying  that  some  missionary  might 
come  and  settle  in  their  midst,  and  now  that  they  heard  that 
their  prayers  were  to  be  answered,  their  gratitude  was  real 
and  touching. 

Yiishan  stands  at  the  head  of  the  navigable  waters  of  the 
Kwangsin  River,  and  from  this  point  the  journey  was  made 
down-stream  by  boat.  At  Hokow,  the  next  out-station  to 
be  reached,  Mr.  Taylor  with  Mr.  Thompson  and  the  Misses 
Mackintosh  and  Gray  went  ashore  and  had  a  helpful  time 
with  the  enquirers,  while  many  interested  visitors  came  to 
see  those  who  remained  on  board.  In  this  city  there  were 
found  some  eight  or  nine  women  apparently  quite  ready  for 
baptism,  but  a  public  baptismal  service  for  women  at  such 
an  early  stage  was  naturally  thought  to  be  undesirable. 

From  Hokow  the  party  proceeded  further  down-stream 
to  Kweiki,  where  an  evangelist  was  stationed,  and  here  they 
had  the  joy  of  witnessing  the  baptism  of  the  first  convert,  a 
Mr.  Wang,  who,  with  his  wife  and  five  sons  had  all  come 


THE  KWANGSIN  RIVER  179 

forward  as  candidates.  This  early  convert,  who  is  now 
(1915)  Elder  of  the  Church  at  Kweiki,  still  faithfully  main 
tains  his  witness  for  Christ.  The  station  of  Takutang, 
situated  on  the  Poyang  Lake,  at  the  foot  of  the  magnificent 
hills,  where  the  well-known  sanatorium  Ruling  now  stands, 
was  reached  early  in  June,  the  three  centres  mentioned  being 
the  only  places  in  the  whole  of  the  journey  down  the  river 
which  were  in  any  sense  open  to  the  Gospel.  It  need  hardly 
be  said  that  earnest  prayer  had  been  offered  for  the  many 
other  cities  and  villages  which  were  just  as  needy,  and  these 
prayers  were  to  be  speedily  answered. 

On  June  17,  not  many  days  after  Takutang  was  reached, 
three  of  the  party,  the  Misses  Mackintosh,  Gray,  and  Webb, 
set  forth  once  more  to  journey  back  to  the  stations  they  had 
so  recently  visited,  this  time  accompanied  by  Miss  Byron. 
Ere  they  started,  Romans  viii.  was  read  as  their  morning 
portion,  and  strengthened  by  the  conviction  that  nothing 
could  separate  them  from  the  love  of  God  which  was  in 
Christ  Jesus  their  Lord,  they  set  forth  filled  with  holy  joy 
to  a  task  fraught  with  many  and  serious  difficulties.  Hokow 
was  reached  on  June  30,  and  here  Miss  Gray  and  Miss  Webb 
went  ashore,  while  Miss  Mackintosh  and  Miss  Byron  pro 
ceeded  to  their  respective  stations  of  Yiishan  and  Chang- 
shan.  Throughout  the  whole  of  the  summer  and  autumn 
the  two  ladies  on  the  lower  reaches  of  the  river  travelled 
from  centre  to  centre,  living  much  on  their  boat,  but  spending 
longer  or  shorter  periods  at  Kweiki  and  Hokow,  while  the 
other  two  worked  in  or  around  their  separate  stations. 

In  November  Miss  M'Farlane,  another  of  the  1884  band, 
and  Miss  Littler  came  as  reinforcements  to  the  Kwangsin 
River.  Miss  Littler  settled  at  Changshan  with  Miss  Byron, 
and  Miss  M'Farlane  temporarily  resided  at  Yiishan,  after 
having  spent  a  short  time  at  the  other  centres.  Lack  of 
space  prevents  us  following  in  any  detail  the  pioneer  work 
of  these  noble  women,  amid  many  encouragements,  constant 
inconveniences,  and  occasional  perils.  In  briefest  fashion 
we  can  only  record  that  in  the  spring  of  1887  Miss  Gibson, 
another  of  the  1884  party,  settled  at  Hokow,  where  for  the 
next  twenty  years,  until  her  death,  she  was  in  charge  of  the 


i8o  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

station.  In  1890  Miss  Marchbank,  who  had  for  more  than 
two  years  been  associated  with  Miss  Mackintosh  at  Yiishan, 
moved  to  Kweiki,  where  she  has  been  the  devoted  leader 
ever  since.  Meanwhile  most  of  the  sisters  of  the  first  North 
American  party,  which  reached  China  towards  the  close  of 

1888,  had  been  designated  to  Kiangsi,  and  with  their  help 
the  two  cities  of  Kwangfeng  and  Anjen  were  occupied  in 

1889,  and  lyang  and  Yangkow  in  the  following  year.     Thus 
within  a  few  years  every  city  on  the  river,  with  the  exception 
of    Kwangsinfu,   had   been   opened   to   the    Gospel,   while 
countless  villages  around  had  heard  the  joyful  news. 

Gracious  fruit  to  all  this  labour  was  early  seen,  for  55 
persons  confessed  Christ  in  baptism  in  the  year  1887,  35  more 
in  1888,  and  another  59  during  the  following  year.  When 
the  first  Conference  of  the  workers  on  the  Kwangsin  River 
met  at  Yiishan  in  September  1890,  there  were  seventeen 
sisters  present,  representing  a  band  of  twenty-one  workers 
from  nine  or  ten  stations.  This  company  of  workers 
from  England,  Scotland,  Canada,  the  United  States,  and 
Switzerland,  met  under  the  guidance  of  Mr.  M'Carthy,  then 
Superintendent  of  that  district.  And  they  were  able  to 
rejoice  in  the  glad  fact  that  already  more  than  260  persons 
had  been  baptized  in  that  region  for  which  they  were  specially 
responsible.  This  was  indeed  an  encouraging  beginning. 

The  prefectural  city  of  Kwangsinfu  was  still,  however, 
closed  to  the  Gospel,  though  many  attempts  had  been  made 
to  gain  an  entrance.  Despite  the  fact  that  the  workers  were 
repeatedly  repulsed,  and  the  Chinese  helpers  not  infrequently 
roughly  handled,  this  city  was  constantly  visited  and  many 
friends  gained.  At  length  in  1901,  Miss  M'Faiiane,  assisted 
by  an  experienced  teacher,  Mr.  Li,  was  prospered  in  the 
renting  of  a  house.  Quietly  she  moved  in  at  night,  but 
next  day,  when  the  gentry  heard  of  the  fact,  they  drew  up 
a  petition  requesting  the  official  to  compel  the  foreigner  to 
withdraw.  They  were  not,  however,  the  first  to  address  the 
magistrate,  for  Miss  M'Faiiane's  card  had  already  been 
presented  at  the  Yamen,  and  the  official  had  promised  his 
protection,  and  despite  all  that  the  gentry  tried  to  do,  he 
did  not  go  back  from  his  word. 


THE  KWANGSIN  RIVER  181 

In  following  the  story  of  the  occupation  of  the  prefectural 
city,  the  last  in  this  region  to  open  its  gates  to  the  Gospel, 
we  have  somewhat  exceeded  the  limits  of  the  period  of 
which  this  section  treats.  Here,  however,  we  must  leave 
this  interesting  sphere  of  labour  in  which  every  year  has 
seen  increasing  blessing.  Few  stations  in  the  Mission,  if 
any,  have  given  more  encouraging  results  than  those  on  the 
Kwangsin  River,  more  than  three  thousand  persons  having 
been  baptized  at  these  stations  worked  by  lady  workers. 
For  the  first  five  years  the  work  was  superintended  by 
Mr.  M'Carthy,  from  which  time  until  after  the  year  1900, 
it  was  under  the  able  and  generous  care  of  Mr.  A.  Orr  Ewing. 
After  the  Boxer  crisis,  Mr.  E.  Pearse  took  these  responsi 
bilities,  while  Mr.  Orr  Ewing  devoted  himself  to  the  super 
intendence  of  the  work  in  the  north,  centre,  and  south  of  the 
province,  a  work  entailing  arduous  and  almost  incessant 
travelling  from  place  to  place.  After  Mr.  Pearse's  return  to 
England  Mr.  William  Taylor,  one  of  the  North  American 
party  mentioned  below,  was  in  1912  appointed  Superinten 
dent  of  north  and  north-east  Kiangsi. 

Three  years  after  Mr.  Taylor's  journey  down  the  Kwangsin 
River,  when  this  special  department  of  women's  work  was 
inaugurated,  because  no  men  could  be  spared  for  the  fifteen 
millions  in  Kiangsi,  a  band  of  six  Canadian  brethren  were 
designated  for  itinerant  service  in  the  practically  untouched 
centre,  south,  and  west  of  the  province.  These  brethren  * 
reached  Kiukiang  on  October  30,  1889,  and  speedily  entered 
upon  their  arduous  toil.  These  parts  of  Kiangsi  proved  a 
harder  field  to  open  than  the  Kwangsin  River,  possibly 
because  there  was  more  political  suspicion  connected  with 
the  work  of  men  than  that  of  women.2 

1  Messrs.   Home,   Meikle,   Rough,   Lawson,  G.  Duff,  and  Souter.     In 
1891  Messrs.  Wm.  Taylor  and  A.  E.  Thor  took  the  places  of  Souter,  who 
had  died,  and  of  Rough,  who  had  taken  over  the  business  work  at  Kiukiang. 

2  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor,  speaking  at  the  Shanghai  Missionary  Conference 
of  1890,  said  :    "  The  issue  of  women's  work  has  greatly  delighted  and 
somewhat  astonished  me  ;    and  it  is  a  very  serious  question  in  my  mind 
whether  those  provinces  and  cities  in  China  which  are  utterly  closed  to 
male  evangelists  may  not  prove  open  to  our  sisters.     We  have  seen  this 
in  some  cases.     There  is  not  the  same  fear  that  lady  missionaries  are 


182  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

In  this  work  on  the  Kan  River,  no  attempt  was  made  at 
first  to  rent  houses,  so  as  to  avoid  all  possible  trouble.  The 
three  cities  of  Changshu,  Kian,  and  Kanchow  were  chosen 
as  centres  from  which  to  itinerate,  and  although  the  hard 
ships  of  living  in  inns  were  fully  weighed,  it  was  considered 
the  wisest  course  to  adopt  at  first.  Many  trying  experiences 
were  met  with  in  these  early  efforts,  these  brethren  being 
not  only  turned  out  of  the  inns  sometimes,  but  the  landlords 
also  being  beaten  for  having  sheltered  them.  In  1891  a 
precarious  tenure  of  premises  was  obtained  in  Kian,  but  the 
Chino- Japanese  War  of  1894-95  was,  strange  to  say,  used 
of  God  to  break  down  opposition,  and  since  that  time  there 
has  been  less  unfriendly  feeling,  as  well  as  fuller  opportunities 
for  work.  Of  the  more  recent  developments  we  cannot 
speak,  save  to  say  that  great  changes  have  come  over  the 
whole  of  this  district,  and  several  of  those  who  endured  the 
hardships  of  those  early  years  are  now  reaping  the  fruit  of 
their  labours. 

political  agents  of  the  British  Government,  and  they  have  been  allowed 
to  go  to  places  and  to  work  where  a  male  missionary  would  have  found  no 
residence  whatever.  ...  In  one  city  we  laboured  for  some  years  but 
could  not  get  near  to  the  people.  Two  single  ladies  went  there  and  visited 
in  the  homes  of  the  people,  and  the  change  of  feeling  was  very  remarkable. 
In  Lanchowfu  in  Kansu,  Mr.  Parker  secured  a  residence  outside  the  city, 
but  one  of  our  single  sisters  went  there,  and  she  succeeded  in  renting  a 
house  within  the  city." 


XXVIII 
NORTH  AMERICA 

IN  the  preceding  chapter  incidental  reference  has  been  made 
to  reinforcements  from  North  America.  The  story  of  God's 
leadings,  which  made  this  possible,  must  now  be  more  fully 
told.  From  the  commencement  the  basis  of  the  Mission 
had  been  interdenominational,  though  for  the  first  twenty- 
three  years  the  Home  organization  had  centred  in  Great 
Britain  alone.  In  the  year  1888  developments  arose,  which 
resulted  in  the  Mission  becoming  international.  More 
than  twenty  years'  experience  had  proved  that  members  of 
all  the  leading  denominations  could  work  harmoniously  and 
happily  together  without  any  friction  in  regard  to  de 
nominational  questions,  so  that  the  Mission  had  become 
an  Evangelical  Alliance  in  miniature.  The  future  was  to 
prove  that  Christians  of  various  nationalities  could  as  easily 
and  as  heartily  co-operate  in  the  evangelization  of  the  world. 
In  this  respect  the  C.I.M.  has  been  permitted  to  become  a 
living  example  of  "  All  one  in  Christ  Jesus/'  This  larger 
bond  of  union  was  not  sought  by  man,  but  thrust  upon  the 
Mission  by  God.1 

In  the  autumn  of  1887,  Mr.  Henry  W.  Frost,  who  was 
then  living  in  Attica  in  Western  New  York,  where  he  had 
the  needs  of  China  heavily  laid  upon  his  heart,  came  to 
England  with  the  purpose  of  inviting  Mr.  Taylor  to  visit 

1  Since  these  words  were  written  the  terrible  European  War  has  broken 
out.  Though  most  of  the  leading  nations  of  Europe  are  represented  in 
the  Mission's  ranks,  it  is  still  devoutly  hoped  that  the  Super-National 
basis  of  the  Mission  may  be  maintained. 

183 


184  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

America  in  the  hope  that  he  would  establish  there  a  branch 
of  the  China  Inland  Mission.     This  proposal  was  unexpected, 
and  Mr.  Taylor,  after  two  earnest  conversations  with  Mr. 
Frost  on  the  subject  replied  :    "  The  Lord  has  given  me  no 
light  about  it.     I  do  not  think  it  is  His  purpose  thus  to 
extend  the  work."     Mr.  Taylor  nevertheless  promised  that 
should  he  be  invited  to  speak  at  Niagara  and  Northfield, 
he  would  gladly  return  to  China  via  America,  so  as  to  spend 
one  or  two  months  in  that  country.     A  few  weeks  later  a 
request  came  from  Dr.  W.  J.  Erdman,  asking  him  to  speak 
at  the  Niagara  Conference  in  the  following  July  ;    while  a 
somewhat  similar  request  came  from  Mr.  D.  L.  Moody  in 
regard    to    the    Northfield    Convention    in    August.     One 
remarkable  thing  about  this  was  that  although  Mr.  Frost 
had  written  to  Mr.  Moody,  suggesting  that  Mr.  Taylor  should 
be  invited,  Mr.  Moody's  invitation,  which  had  been  entrusted 
to  a  relative  who  was  crossing  to  England,  had  been  given 
before  Mr.  Frost's  letter  was  received. 

These  invitations  were  accepted,  and  on  June  23,  1888, 
immediately  on  the  conclusion  of  the  General  Missionary 
Conference  in  London,  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor,  accompanied 
by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Reginald  Radcliffe  and  Dr.  Howard  Taylor, 
set  sail  from  Liverpool.     After  a  brief  stay  at  Northfield, 
the  party  proceeded  to  Niagara,  where  Mr.  Taylor  spoke  at 
the  meetings  on  Wednesday  and  Thursday,  July  18  to  19, 
leaving  shortly  afterwards  for  Chicago.     Messrs.  Radcliffe 
and  Robert  P.  Wilder  remained  on  at  Niagara,  however,  and 
so  much  was  the  missionary  interest  deepened,  that  before 
the  close  of  the  Conference  funds  were  placed  in  the  hands 
of  Mr.  Frost,  who  was  one  of  the  Conference  Secretaries,  for 
the  support  of  eight  new  missionaries  in  connection  with  the 
C.I.M.     This  altogether  unexpected  development   at  first 
much  exercised  Mr.  Taylor's  mind.     But  he  soon  "gathered  " 
that  the  Lord  was  guiding  to  the  opening  up  of  work  in 
North  America. 

"  I  had  not  the  most  remote  idea  of  our  visit  to  America  affecting 
the  China  Inland  Mission  thus/'  wrote  Mr.  Taylor  some  time  sub 
sequently.  "  It  was  a  great  surprise,  and  it  led  to  much  prayer  that 
one  might  know  the  Lord's  purpose  in  this  dealing.  Mr.  Radcliffe 


NORTH  AMERICA  185 

had  remarked  to  me,  and  I  to  him,  more  than  once  as  we  were  crossing 
the  ocean  together,  that  we  felt  we  did  not  know  what  God  was  taking 
us  to  America  for,  though  we  felt  that  we  were  following  His  leading  ; 
and  when  this  remarkable  manifestation  of  interest  and  desire  to  help 
came,  one  was  thrown  very  much  upon  God  in  prayer,  and  it  was 
impressed  upon  my  heart,  and  upon  the  hearts  of  some  of  my  friends, 
that  if  there  could  be  found  men  and  women  in  America  who  would 
go  out  to  China,  the  funds  so  contributed  would  be  a  direct  link  between 
the  missionaries,  and  would  be  likely  to  deepen  the  interest  in  Missions 
and  to  further  the  interests  of  the  Redeemer's  Kingdom.  But 
I  was  very  much  concerned  —  I  might  almost  use  the  word 
'  frightened  ' — at  the  thought,  for  one  felt  how  difficult  it  might 
be,  if  persons  were  to  come  forward  and  offer  themselves,  to 
so  thoroughly  become  acquainted  with  them  as  only  to  select  the 
right  people." 

The  guidance  of  God,  however,  as  shown  by  the  gifts 
contributed  at  Niagara  became  plainer  a  month  later  when 
Mr.  Taylor  visited  the  second  Conference  at  Northfield,  and 
as  he  held  meetings  at  various  other  centres  in  the  States  and 
Canada.  To  have  the  men  and  no  money,  Mr.  Taylor  said, 
would  not  have  perplexed  him  so  much  as  to  have  money 
and  no  missionaries,  lest  the  wrong  people  might  be  en 
couraged  to  apply.  Yet  after  prayerful  conversation  with 
a  number  of  earnest  Christians,  he  appealed  for  workers  at  the 
meetings  subsequently  held,  and  the  response  was  such  that 
Mr.  Taylor  said,  "  I  saw  that  God  was  really  working,"  and 
that  was  all  he  desired  to  know. 

But  the  money  contributed  at  Niagara  proved — like  the 
loaves  and  fishes  of  old — almost  inexhaustible.  For  the 
first  candidate  who  offered,  Mr.  Moody  said  that  he  would 
provide  her  outfit  and  passage  money,  and  the  members  of 
her  Church  also  expressed  a  desire  to  support  her.  For  the 
second,  who  had  been  four  years  at  Northfield,  her  father 
said  :  "  I  am  not  a  rich  man,  but  I  have  saved  sufficient 
money  $250  (gold)  to  sustain  her  for  the  first  year.  ...  No 
one  else  must  support  my  Grace  until  my  own  money  is 
used/'  Thus  again  the  Niagara  contributions  could  not  be 
employed.  It  was  the  same  with  the  third  as  well  as  with 
more  who  followed.  "  How  blessed  it  is,"  said  Mr.  Taylor, 
"  to  deal  with  God." 


186  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

The  letters  of  this  period  clearly  show  that  with  the 
enlargement  of  the  Mission's  outlook  God  also  gave  enlarge 
ment  of  heart. 

"  I  was  quite  melted/'  said  Mr.  Taylor,  "  by  the  kindness  of  beloved 
friends  to  me  ;  if  I  had  been  an  old  friend  or  brother,  I  could  not  have 
been  received  with  more  welcome  than  I  was  in  many  places.  One's 
heart  was  very  much  touched,  and  one  felt  what  a  wealth  of  love  and 
grace  there  is  in  the  great  Church — greater  perhaps  than  one  had  ever 
conceived  before — that  after  all,  all  the  wide  world  over,  no  matter 
whether  in  Africa,  in  India,  in  China,  or  in  America,  in  Canada,  in 
Scotland  or  in  England,  all  the  Lord's  children  are  children  of  one 
Father,  all  bound  to  one  great  central  heart,  and  that  they  are  indeed 
all  one  in  Christ  Jesus.  It  is  so  glorious  to  realise  the  Church 
is  one.  It  is  not  uniformity  that  we  want,  but  really  manifested 
heart  unity." 

By  the  time  Mr.  Taylor  was  ready  to  start  for  China, 
some  forty-two  candidates  had  offered,  and  of  this  number 
seventeen  had  been  accepted,  while  it  was  decided  that 
fourteen  (six  men  and  eight  women)  should  go  forward  at 
once.  Before  the  departure  of  these  friends,  Farewell 
Meetings  marked  with  an  unwonted  enthusiasm  were  held. 
To  quote  from  Recollections  of  Reginald  Radcliffe,  by  his 
wife  : 

The  proceedings  of  these  farewell  meetings  of  the  first  band  of 
American  and  Canadian  missionaries  to  inland  China  have,  I  think, 

rarely  been  equalled  for  solemn  impressiveness  and  touching  pathos 

From  Dr.  Parson's  Church  we  accompanied  them  (on  September  25) 
to  the  railway  station  ;  and  perhaps  never  has  Toronto  witnessed  such 
a  scene — from  500  to  1000  people  came  to  see  them  off.  When  the 
party  were  settled  on  board  the  train,  Mr.  Radcliffe  lifted  up  his  strong 
voice  and  led  in  a  touching  prayer  for  blessing  and  preservations  to 
the  travellers.  Many  people  followed  his  words  with  a  loud  voice. 
There  was  great  emotion.  The  members  of  the  Y.M.C.A.  walked 
up  the  streets  of  Toronto  four  abreast  singing  hymns ;  and  we  waved 
our  handkerchiefs.  Thus  ended  one  of  the  most  interesting  eras  of 
my  life.  We  parted ;  but  it  was  to  keep  tryst  at  Jesus'  feet — they 
from  the  Pacific,  we  from  the  Atlantic.  We  had  seen  how  marvellously 
God  had  opened  hearts  in  America  and  Canada  to  Mr.  Taylor's  appeal 
for  inland  China  and  to  Mr.  Radcliffe's  thrilling  words  on  behalf  of  the 
whole  -heathen  world. 


NORTH  AMERICA  187 

This  party,1  "  the  American  Lammermuir  party,"  sailed 
from  Vancouver  on  October  5,  1888,  as  America's  first  gift 
in  connection  with  the  China  Inland  Mission  to  the  needy 
millions  of  China,  and  these  were  the  welcome  reinforcements 
which  helped  to  occupy  the  stations  on  the  Kwangsin  River, 
and  commenced  the  pioneering  work  in  other  parts  of 
Kiangsi,  to  which  reference  has  already  been  made. 

It  was  of  course  necessary  that  the  cases  of  the  remaining 
candidates  should  be  considered,  and  this  responsible  work 
was  delegated  by  Mr.  Taylor,  on  the  eve  of  his  departure, 
to  Mr.  Frost  at  Attica,  and  to  Mr.  Sandham  at  Toronto. 
One  incident  may  be  recorded  revealing  the  guiding  hand 
of  God  at  this  time.  While  Mr.  Taylor  and  Messrs.  Frost 
and  Sandham  were  seated  together  in  the  Christian  Institute 
at  Toronto,  seeking  God's  guidance  as  to  the  future,  Mr. 
Taylor  asked  for  suggestions  as  to  the  names  of  some 
sympathetic  friends  who  could  act  as  members  of  a  pro 
visional  Council.  Three  names  were  proposed — Dr.  Parsons, 
Mr.  Gooderham,  and  Mr.  Nasmith,  and  as  it  was  impractic 
able  for  Mr.  Taylor  to  call  upon  them,  Messrs.  Frost  and 
Sandham  agreed  to  see  them  personally.  What,  however, 
was  their  surprise  when  in  walked  one  of  the  three,  to  be 
followed  a  few  minutes  later  by  another,  while  the  third 
entered  shortly  afterwards.  These  three  friends  had  no 
idea  that  Mr.  Taylor  was  there  at  that  time,  and  two  of 
them  had  not  entered  the  building  for  months. 

During  the  months  that  followed  Mr.  Taylor's  departure, 
God  began  to  wean  the  hearts  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Frost  away 
from  their  much  loved  home  at  Attica,  which  had  been  given 
them  by  their  father,  and  to  teach  them  many  personal 
lessons  of  faith  and  trust  in  God  as  Jehovah- Jireh.  Previous 
to  Mr.  Frost's  visit  to  England  he  had  given  up  a  lucrative 
business  for  evangelistic  work,  and  his  father  had  generously 
undertaken  to  support  him.  But  now  came  an  unlooked-for 
change,  for  a  letter  was  received  from  Mr.  Frost  senior 

1  The  names  of  this  party  which  accompanied  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor  are  : 
— The  Misses  E.  M.  Lucas,  Grace  Irvin,  S.  C.  Parker,  Cassie  Fitzsimons, 
Jeannie  Monro,  J.  D.  Gardiner,  Hattie  Turner,  Rebecca  M'Kenzie ; 
Messrs.  Wm.  S.  Home,  John  Meikle,  Wm.  M.  Souter,  George  H.  Duff, 
James  Lawson,  J.  Hamilton  Racey. 


i88  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

stating  that  he  could  no  longer  continue  to  minister  to  their 
needs.  The  test  was  a  real  and  searching  one,  for  either  this 
meant  going  back  into  business,  or  going  forward  into  a 
fuller  trust  in  God.  The  latter  course  was  chosen,  and 
through  many  varied  and  heart-searching  experiences,  which 
cannot  be  detailed,  God  prepared  His  servants  for  the  special 
work  to  which  He  was  about  to  call  them. 

In  the  following  year,  1889,  Mr.  Taylor,  having  returned 
from  China  to  England,  paid  a  second  visit  to  America. 
Once  again  he  was  present  at  the  Niagara  Conference  in 
July  and  at  Northfield  in  August.  He  took  part  also  at 
meetings  in  a  number  of  other  cities  in  the  States  and 
Canada.  But  the  principal  object  of  this  visit  was  to  meet 
the  gentlemen  who  had  formed  the  provisional  Council,  and 
after  conference  with  them  to  put  the  work  upon  a  more 
permanent  basis.  Eight  half -day  meetings  with  the  Council 
were  held — four  at  Niagara  and  four  at  Toronto — with  the 
result  that  a  permanent  Council 1  was  appointed  with 
Mr.  Henry  Weston  Frost,  whom  God  had  been  so  signally 
preparing,  as  Secretary  and  Treasurer. 

A  Home  for  the  accommodation  of  candidates  was  taken 
at  30  Shuter  Street,  Toronto,  with  Offices  in  the  Christian 
Institute  building  on  Richmond  Street,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Frost  broke  up  their  home  in  Attica  to  take  charge  of 
these  the  first  headquarters  of  the  Mission  in  Canada.  The 
liberality  shown  at  Niagara  had  exceeded  that  of  the  pre 
ceding  year  and  the  work  assumed  its  more  permanently 
organized  form  with  every  sign  of  God's  favour. 

In  the  year  1891  the  growing  needs  of  the  Home  Depart 
ment  made  larger  premises  necessary,  and  a  more  com 
modious  house,  situated  at  the  corner  of  Church  and  Charles 
Streets,  was  rented,  in  which  the  Home  and  Offices  were 
combined,  and  here  the  work  centred  for  about  eight  years. 

1  The  names  of  the  Members  of  this  Council  were  : — Hon.  S.  H.  Blake, 
Toronto;  Mr.  J.  R.  Cavers,  Gait.,  Ont.  ;  Rev.  W.  J.  Erdman,  D.D., 
Asheville,  N.C.  ;  Mr.  Henry  W.  Frost,  Attica,  N.Y.  ;  Mr.  Wm.  Gooderham, 
Toronto  ;  Mr.  J.  S.  Helmer,  Lockport,  N.Y. ;  Mr.  Robert  Kilgour,  Toronto  ; 
Hon.  and  Rev.  R.  Moreton,  Hamilton,  Ont.  ;  Mr.  J.  D.  Nasmith,  Toronto  ; 
Rev.  H.  M.  Parsons,  D.D.,  Toronto;  Mr.  Elias  Rogers,  Toronto;  Mr. 
Alfred  Sandham,  Toronto  ;  Mr.  Edmund  Savage,  Hamilton,  Ont.  ;  Rev. 
Robert  Wallace,  Belleville,  Ont. 


NORTH  AMERICA  189 

As  time  progressed,  however,  earnest  prayer  was  made  for 
more  suitable  and  more  permanent  quarters,  and  in  the 
autumn  of  1899  a  gift  of  about  $5000  (gold)  was  received 
from  Mr.  Taylor,  to  whom  the  money  had  come  as  a  personal 
legacy  from  his  old  friend  and  colleague,  Mr.  W.  T.  Berger, 
and  this  gift  was  generously  designated  for  the  purchase  of 
a  permanent  Mission  Home  in  Canada.  With  this  donation, 
and  other  specially  contributed  funds,  the  Mission  was 
enabled  to  secure  the  commodious  premises  at  the  corner  of 
Church  and  Wellesley  Streets,  which  have  remained  as  the 
Home  and  Office  Centre  in  Toronto  ever  since. 

Meanwhile,  the  need  of  additional  helpers  for  the  some 
what  rapidly  growing  work  was  felt,  and  in  1893,  Mr.  Frost 
was  appointed  Home  Director  in  North  America,  and  sub 
sequently  Mr.  Joshua  S.  Helmer  of  Lockport,  New  York, 
who  had  been  a  Member  of  the  Council  from  the  beginning, 
was  appointed  the  Secretary-Treasurer.  To  free  Mr.  Frost 
for  a  wider  ministry,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Helmer  took  over  the 
charge  of  the  Mission  Home  in  Toronto,  where  they  con 
tinued  lovingly  to  minister  to  their  ever-changing  household 
for  the  next  twenty  years.1 

For  some  time  it  had  been  manifest  that  a  Home  Centre 
would  be  needed  in  the  States  as  well  as  in  Canada,  and  in 
1900,  the  answer  to  many  prayers  came  in  the  offer  of  a 
large  and  attractive  house  in  Norristown,  Pennsylvania,  not 
far  from  Philadelphia.  This  kind  offer  was  gratefully 
accepted,  and  shortly  afterwards  the  house  was  purchased 
by  the  donor  and  placed  at  the  disposal  of  the  Mission. 
Here  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Frost  took  up  their  residence,  with  a 
view  to  opening  up  more  fully  work  in  the  States,  and  this 
generous  gift  of  an  Eastern  home  made  possible  in  no  small 
measure  the  subsequent  developments  in  and  around 
Philadelphia. 

This  Home,  however,  with  all  its  attractions  was  found 
to  be  somewhat  far  removed  from  the  central  city,  and  in 
consequence  in  1903,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Frost  moved  to  German- 
'town,  a  suburb  of  Philadelphia,  where  in  1904  two  kind 

1  Mrs.  Helmer  died  suddenly  on  June  6,  1913,  beloved  and  mourned 
by  many. 


THE  THIRD  DECADE 

friends  united  in  presenting  to  the  Mission  the  present 
premises  on  School  Lane  as  a  permanent  Eastern  centre. 
An  Eastern  Council  was  subsequently  formed,  and  still  later 
Mr.  Frederick  H.  Neale,  who  had  had  eight  years  experience 
in  the  Mission's  Offices  in  Shanghai,  was  appointed  to  act 
as  Secretary.  This  post  he  held  from  the  autumn  of  1906 
to  the  autumn  of  1913,  when  unfortunately  his  health  made 
a  prolonged  rest  necessary.  To  fill  the  vacant  post,  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  William  Y.  King,  who  had  been  assisting  at  Toronto 
for  the  previous  three  years,  were  transferred  to  German- 
town,  while  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Frederick  F.  Helmer  were  appointed 
to  Toronto  to  strengthen  the  hands  of  their  widowed  father. 
In  this  chapter  some  of  the  more  important  facts  con 
cerning  changes  of  personnel  have  been  briefly  outlined  up  to 
the  present  time,  as  opportunity  may  not  occur  for  referring 
to  this  elsewhere.  The  bond  of  union  formed  in  1888  has 
strengthened  and  increased  as  years  have  passed,1  which 
may  be  illustrated  by  the  fact  that,  whereas  at  first  the 
financial  obligations  of  Great  Britain  and  America  were  kept 
separate,  ere  many  years  had  passed  all  funds  were  unitedly 
administered  on  the  Field,  for  the  labourers,  whether  from 
the  old  country  or  the  new,  being  "  of  one  heart  and  soul," 
did  not  desire  to  say  "  that  aught  of  the  things  which  he 
possessed  was  his  own  ;  but  they  had  all  things  in  common." 

1  As  we  write  the  North  American  Contingent  on  active  service  numbers 
114,  while  37  have  laid  down  their  lives  upon  the  Field  or  have  died  after 
returning  home. 


XXIX 

TO  EVERY  CREATURE 

REMARKABLE  as  had  been  the  unexpected  and  unsought- for 
developments  in  North  America,  they  were  to  prove  but  the 
beginning  of  a  still  wider  spread  of  interest  in  and  devotion 
to  the  evangelization  of  China.  The  early  hopes  of  and 
prayers  for  a  few  helpers  for  the  evangelization  of  Chekiang, 
and  later  for  pioneers  for  the  unoccupied  provinces  of  China, 
had  been  abundantly  answered,  but  there  could  be  no  resting 
in  what  had  been  accomplished,  while  so  much  remained  to 
be  done  ;  each  success  afforded  only  a  better  and  higher 
vantage-ground  for  an  enlarged  and  clearer  vision.  The 
things  which  were  behind  must  be  forgotten,  save  as  they 
encouraged  the  workers  to  press  forward  towards  the  goal  of 
a  finished  work.  "  The  evangelization  of  the  world  in  this 
generation "  was  becoming  the  watchword  of  an  ever- 
increasing  band  of  men,  and  the  same  thought  filled  the  heart 
and  mind  of  Mr.  Taylor,  though  more  especially  with 
reference  to  China,  and  with  a  hope  that  an  even  shorter 
period  than  a  generation  would  be  necessary. 

The  General  Missionary  Conference,  which  had  met  in 
Shanghai  in  1877,  had  appealed  to  the  Christian  Church  to 
evangelize  China  in  the  present  generation,  and  many  had 
hoped  it  would  be  accomplished  before  the  close  of  the 
nineteenth  century.  Yet  more  than  half  that  time  had 
elapsed  and  the  last  decade  was  drawing  on,  and  not  one 
hundredth  part  of  China  had  been  reached  with  the  Good 
News  of  Salvation.  Meditating  on  and  praying  over  these 
things,  Mr.  Taylor,  shortly  after  his  return  from  his  second 

191 


i92  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

visit  to  America,  issued  in  October  1889  a  Leaflet  entitled  : 
To  Every  Creature. 

"  How  are  we  going  to  treat  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  reference  to 
this  command  ?  "  wrote  Mr.  Taylor.  "  Shall  we  definitely  drop  the 
title  LORD,  as  applied  to  Him,  and  take  the  ground  that  we  are  quite 
willing  to  recognize  Him  as  our  Saviour  Jesus,  so  far  as  the  penalty  of 
sin  is  concerned,  but  are  not  prepared  to  recognize  ourselves  as  bought 
with  a  price,  or  Him  as  having  any  claim  on  our  unquestioning  obedi 
ence  ?  Shall  we  say  that  we  are  our  own  masters  ?  .  .  .  that  we  will 
give  Him  what  we  think  fit,  and  obey  any  of  His  commands  that  do 
not  demand  too  great  a  sacrifice  ?  To  be  taken  to  Heaven  by  Jesus 
Christ  we  are  more  than  willing,  but  we  will  not  have  this  Man  to  reign 
over  us.  ...  Shall  it  not  rather  become  a  holy  ambition  to  all  who 
have  health  and  youth,  to  court  the  Master's  approval,  and  tread  in 
His  steps  in  seeking  to  save  a  lost  world  ?  And  shall  not  Christian 
parents  encourage  their  children's  enthusiasm,  feeling  that  they  have 
nothing  too  precious  for  their  Lord,  who  gave  Himself  for  them  ?  " 

The  Leaflet  from  which  this  quotation  is  taken  then 
proceeds  to  treat  of  the  problem  and  practicability  of 
speedily  evangelizing  China.  It  pointed  out  that  with  a 
thousand  evangelists,  each  preaching  the  Gospel  to  fifty 
families  a  day,  every  family  in  China  might  be  reached 
within  five  years.  The  suggestion  was  not  that  these 
thousand  evangelists  should  all  join  the  China  Inland 
Mission,  but  that  all  denominations  in  Great  Britain, 
America,  and  elsewhere  should  respond.  The  proposal  was 
submitted  to  the  reader  as  a  subject  for  earnest  prayer, 
especially  as  the  great  Conference  in  Shanghai  was  to  meet 
in  the  following  May  to  discuss  the  division  of  the  Field. 

When  the  Conference  did  meet,  Mr.  Taylor  preached  the 
opening  sermon,  and  took  as  his  text :  "  Whence  should  we 
have  so  much  bread  in  the  wilderness  as  to  fill  so  great  a 
multitude."  The  problem  of  reaching  every  creature  was 
the  underlying  thought  of  his  discourse  upon  this  important 
occasion. 

"  If,"  he  said,  "  as  an  organized  Conference  we  were  to  set  ourselves 
to  obey  the  command  of  our  Lord  to  the  full,  we  should  have  such  an 
outpouring  of  the  Spirit,  such  a  Pentecost  as  the  world  has  not  seen 
since  the  Spirit  was  poured  out  in  Jerusalem.  God  gives  His  Spirit 
not  to  those  who  long  for  Him,  nor  to  those  who  pray  for  Him,  nor  to 


TO  EVERY  CREATURE  193 

those  who  desire  to  be  filled  always,  but  He  does  give  His  Holy  Spirit 
to  them  that  obey  Him.  And  if,  as  an  act  of  obedience,  we  were  to 
determine  that  every  district,  every  town,  every  village,  every  hamlet 
in  this  land  should  hear  the  Gospel,  and  that  speedily  ;  and  if  we  were 
to  set  about  doing  it,  I  believe  that  the  Spirit  would  come  down  with 
such  mighty  power  that  we  should  find  loaves  and  fishes  multiplying 
on  every  hand — we  do  not  know  whence  or  how.  We  should  find  the 
fire  spreading  from  missionary  to  flock,  and  the  Chinese  Christians  all 
on  fire  setting  their  neighbours  on  fire  ;  and  our  Chinese  fellow-Chris 
tians  and  the  entire  Church  of  God  would  be  blessed.  God  gives  His 
Holy  Spirit  to  them  that  obey  Him." 

The  thought  of  sending  out  a  United  Appeal  for  a  thousand 
new  evangelists  was  earnestly  commended  to  the  Conference, 
and  was  ultimately  adopted.  It  read  as  follows:— 

We  do  now  appeal  to  you,  the  Protestant  Churches  of  Christian 
lands,  to  send  to  China  in  response  to  these  calls 

ONE  THOUSAND  MEN 
within  five  years  from  this  time. 

We  make  this  appeal  in  behalf  of  three  hundred  millions  of  un- 
evangelized  heathen ;  we  make  it  with  all  the  earnestness  of  our 
whole  hearts,  as  men  overwhelmed  with  the  magnitude  and  responsi 
bility  of  the  work  before  us  ;  we  make  it  with  unwavering  faith  in  the 
power  of  a  risen  Saviour  to  call  men  into  His  vineyard,  and  to  open 
the  hearts  of  those  who  are  His  stewards  to  send  out  and  support 
them,  and  we  shall  not  cease  to  cry  mightily  to  Him  that  He  will  do 
this  thing,  and  that  our  eyes  may  see  it. 

On  behalf  of  the  Conference, 

J.  HUDSON  TAYLOR. 
WM.  ASHMORE. 
Committee  {  H.  CORBETT. 

MATEER. 
REID. 
SHANGHAI,  May  1890. 


'.•(  n.  LA 

c.  w. 

1C.  F. 


Yet  before  this  official  Appeal  had  been  issued,  Mr. 
Taylor's  earlier  Leaflet  had  had  a  wide  circulation  which 
had  begun  to  bear  fruit.  In  Sweden  and  Norway  at  an 
even  earlier  date  the  Swedish  Mission  in  China  and  the 
Norwegian  China  Mission  had  been  organized,  and  the  first 
thing  that  Mr.  Taylor  did  after  the  issue  of  his  Leaflet  was 

o 


194  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

to  respond  to  a  long-standing  invitation  to  visit  these 
countries. 

On  November  3,  1889,  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor,  accompanied 
by  Dr.  Howard  Taylor,  arrived  at  Gotenberg,  where  they 
were  met  by  Mr.  Holmgren,  the  Secretary  of  the  Swedish 
Mission  in  China,  who  had  arranged  the  whole  of  their  tour, 
and  who  was  to  be  their  genial  companion  and  interpreter 
throughout.  Twenty-four  towns  were  visited,  including 
Stockholm,  Upsala  and  Christiania,  and  some  fifty  or  sixty 
thousand  persons  were  addressed,  even  Queen  Sophia 
graciously  inviting  Mr.  Taylor  to  a  private  audience  in 
Stockholm.  "  In  Scandinavia,"  wrote  Mr.  Taylor,  "  there 
are  surely  one  hundred  of  the  thousand  additional  missionary 
evangelists  needed  to  carry  the  Gospel  to  every  family 
in  China."  On  all  hands  there  were  unmistakable 
evidences  of  spiritual  blessing,  and  of  a  deepened  interest 
in  the  work  of  evangelizing  China,  for  which  the  two 
Missions  associated  with  the  C.I.M.  had  been  brought  into 
being.1 

During  the  same  autumn  a  remarkable  revival  broke 
out  in  Elberfeld  and  Barmen  in  Rhineland,  Germany, 
through  the  visit  of  the  Rev.  F.  Franson,  which  led  to  the 
formation  of  the  German  China  Alliance  Mission  during  the 
following  year.  Mr.  Franson,  who  was  born  in  Sweden  in 
1852,  was  a  man  of  apostolic  zeal  and  fervour.  At  the  age 
of  twenty-three  he  had  joined  Mr.  Moody  in  his  work,  and 
had  travelled  for  some  six  years  as  an  evangelist  in  the 
United  States,  after  which  time  he  engaged  in  extensive 
evangelistic  work  in  many  parts  of  Europe.  In  the  year 
1888,  he  visited  Norway,  Sweden,  Finland  and  Germany, 
and  about  this  time  became  deeply  interested  in  the  cause  of 
Christ  abroad.  The  reading  of  Mr.  Taylor's  Leaflet  To 
Every  Creature  fired  his  heart  with  an  intense  enthusiasm, 
which  kindled  the  flame  of  sacred  love  in  many  churches  in 
Europe  and  America. 

In  the  meetings  jheld  at  Barmen,  to  quote  the  first  letter 

1  The  Swedish  Mission  in  China  in  January  1915  had  fifty-one  workers 
on  the  Field,  and  the  Norwegian  Mission  in  China  had  ten  workers.  For 
details  concerning  the  Associate  Missions  see  Appendix  I.,  p.  357. 


TO  EVERY  CREATURE  195 

addressed   by  the   newly-formed   German    China   Alliance 
Mission  to  the  London  Council : 

There  has  been  told  of  the  needs  of  China,  and  of  the  Appeal  for 
one  thousand  workers  by  our  dear  brother  Hudson  Taylor.  Hearts 
were  opened  and  with  them  the  hands,  and  already  several  hundred 
marks  have  been  given  for  the  evangelization  of  China. 

It  was  in  consequence  of  this  movement  that  a  Council 
was  formed,  and  Messrs.  Franson  and  Emmanuel  Olsson 
came  over  to  England  to  lay  their  plans  before  the  Council 
in  London.  The  result  was  a  happy  association  between 
these  Christians  in  Germany  and  the  China  Inland  Mission, 
and  the  first  party,  with  Mr.  Olsson  as  leader,  reached 
Shanghai  on  December  3,  iSgo.1 

But  Mr.  Franson 's  zeal  was  not  satisfied  with  what  had 
been  accomplished  in  Europe,  and  so  in  the  autumn  of  1890 
he  started  for  North  America,  with  the  purpose  of  stirring 
up  the  Scandinavian  Churches  in  that  Continent  to  a  realiza 
tion  of  their  duty  to  the  heathen,  and  for  two  years  he 
travelled  from  place  to  place  with  this  one  object  in  view. 
The  result  was  the  formation  of  the  Scandinavian  Alliance 
Mission,  with  its  headquarters  in  Chicago,  which  Mission 
has  sent  forth  workers  to  China,  Japan,  Mongolia,  India, 
Tibet,  Africa,  and  South  America.  Within  three  and  a  half 
months  of  Mr.  Franson's  landing  in  America,  a  band  of  no 
less  than  thirty-five  men  and  women  of  earnest  purpose  had 
offered  for  China.  The  support  of  these  friends  had  been 
guaranteed  by  the  Scandinavian  Churches  which  sent  them 
forth,  and  more  than  five  thousand  dollars  had  been  handed 
to  Mr.  Franson  towards  the  general  expenses. 

Tuesday  morning,  February  17,  1891,  was  a  memorable 
day  indeed,  when  this  the  largest  missionary  party  ever 
known  to  arrive  in  China  landed  at  Shanghai,  and  presented 
themselves  at  the  Home  of  the  China  Inland  Mission, 
especially  as  they  brought  the  news  that  another  party  of 
fifteen  more  were  on  their  way,  and  would  probably  arrive 
the  following  week.  This  second  party,  which  made  fifty 

1  The  German  China  Alliance  in  January  1915  had  thirty-seven  workers 
on  the  Field.  Their  work  is  located  in  western  Chekiang  and  south-east 
Kiangsi. 


196  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

in    all,   eventually    arrived    on    March    10,    a    remarkable 
Scandinavian  contribution  towards  the  desired  thousand.1 

"  We  have  the  inexpressible  joy/'  wrote  Mr.  Franson  in  the  letter 
of  introduction  brought  by  the  first  party,  "to  be  able  to  send  thirty- 
five  Mission-Evangelists  to  help  to  fill  out  the  number  of  one  thousand 
according  to  the  call  of  our  dearly-beloved  brother  Hudson  Taylor.  .  .  . 
We  did  not  succeed  in  bringing  so  many  from  Germany  (at  once  at 
least)  as  we  had  expected.  The  success  here  is  so  much  the  greater.  .  .  . 
Not  only  have  these  thirty-five  their  support  secured,  but  another 
expedition  of  some  ten  will  leave  Omaha  twelve  days  later  than  this 
one.  We  arranged  it  so  that  we  do  not  send  any  who  has  not  been 
used  of  God  to  blessing  for  souls.  These  thirty-five  have  been  out 
on  missionary  tours  lasting  with  some  of  them  since  last  autumn.  .  .  . 
The  intention  of  this  Mission  is  to  be  associated  with  the  China  Inland 
Mission,  just  as  Mr.  Folke  (of  the  Swedish  Mission  in  China)  and  Mr. 
Olsson  (of  the  German  China  Alliance)  are.  .  .  .  With  the  best  thanks 
for  all  the  kindness  shown  to  us  Scandinavians  of  the  different  Missions, 
as  well  as  the  German  party,  and  hoping  that  you  will  extend  the  same 
fraternal  feelings  and  sympathy  to  our  present  party. — I  remain,  yours 
sincerely  in  the  Lord's  Service,  F.  FRANSON. 

"  OMAHA,  NEBRASKA,  January  17,  1891." 

That  the  Mission  was  able  to  extend  hospitality  in 
Shanghai  to  so  large  a  party  was  only  another  illustration 
of  the  guiding  hand  of  God  by  whom  all  the  body  is  fitly 
framed  and  knit  together.  A  few  years  earlier  it  would 
not  have  been  possible.  From  November  1873,  when  the 
Mission's  first  Business  Centre  was  opened  in  Shanghai,  up 
to  February  1890,  the  rented  premises  2  had  been  far  from 
satisfactory  or  commodious,  and  yet  for  those  occupied 
from  the  years  1885  to  1890  a  costly  rental  of  £30  per  month 
had  had  to  be  paid,  of  which  sum  nearly  one  half  was  kindly 
contributed  by  a  member  of  the  Mission.  In  February  1890, 

1  "  God  is  working  so  wonderfully  we  need  to  take  the  shoes  from  off 
our  feet  and  to  walk  very  softly  before  Him." — J.  Hudson  Taylor,  in  a 
letter  dated  February  28,  1891. 

3  From  November  1873  to  September  1876,  the  C.I.M.  premises  were 
on  the  Broadway.  From  the  latter  date  the  C.I.M.  station  was  vacant 
until  April  1878,  when  premises  were  rented  on  the  bank  of  the  Soochow 
Creek.  In  1880,  when  this  house  was  pulled  down,  the  Mission  moved  to 
Seward  Road  until  a  larger  house  was  taken  in  Szechuan  Road  in  1884. 
In  1885  two  adjoining  houses  were  rented  in  the  Yuen  Ming  Yuen  buildings, 
until  the  Mission  moved,  in  February  1890,  to  its  present  quarters. 


TO  EVERY  CREATURE  197 

however,  through  the  munificence  of  a  devoted  servant  of 
God  who  had  borne  the  whole  expense  of  the  site  and 
buildings,  the  Mission  entered  into  large  and  well-adapted 
premises  of  its  own,  which  with  some  more  recent  additions 
it  occupies  to-day. 

Few  gifts,  if  any,  have  been  more  serviceable  to  the  work 
than  this  Compound  in  Shanghai,  not  only  as  a  centre  for 
the  offices  of  the  headquarter's  staff,  but  as  a  Home  for 
missionaries  arriving  in  or  leaving  China,  and  for  a  thousand 
other  purposes  inseparable  from  the  well-being  of  the  work. 
Here,  then,  there  was  room  for  the  welcome  of  this  remark 
able  contingent  of  fifty  new  workers,  even  at  a  time  when 
the  China  Council  was  in  session,  and  when  other  parties 
from  America,  Australasia,  and  Great  Britain  were  expected. 
Truly  it  was  an  evidence  that  He  who  sends  forth  the  men 
and  women  does  not  forget  what  things  they  have  need  of. 

While  the  story  of  the  division  of  the  Field  and  the  location 
of  all  these  new  workers  must  be  reserved  for  a  special 
chapter,  it  may  not  be  out  of  place  to  add  a  few  more  details 
concerning  the  Shanghai  Compound,  for  if  these  premises 
proved  so  invaluable  to  the  work  in  1891,  what  have  they 
not  been  in  more  recent  years.  It  is  estimated  to-day,  with 
the  enhanced  value  of  property  in  Shanghai,  that  these 
premises  save  the  Mission  a  rent  of  no  less  than  £1000  a 
year.  Here,  when  the  Chefoo  Schools  break  up,  or  re 
assemble,  parents  will  come  either  to  welcome  or  send  off 
their  children,  making  for  a  few  days  a  sudden  increase  in 
the  household  of  approximately  one  hundred  persons,  young 
and  old  together.  Here,  during  the  Boxer  crisis  or  the  more 
recent  Revolution,  a  safe  refuge  has  been  found  for  many 
of  those  compelled  to  leave  their  stations,  and  sometimes 
as  many  as  two  hundred  have  been  accommodated  during 
these  times  of  pressure.  This  does  not  mean  that  there 
are  all  the  comforts  of  home-life  for  all  these  friends,  for 
there  are  only  thirty-one  bedrooms  available  for  those  not 
on  the  permanent  staff ;  but  to  the  missionary  accustomed 
to  Chinese  inns,  a  bed  on  the  floor — and  he  generally  carries 
his  own  bedding — in  the  hall,  offices,  or  attics,  is  gratefully 
welcomed  when  others  cannot  be  had.  To  give  some 


198  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

figures,  gathered  during  the  writer's  recent  visit  to  China — 
In  January  1912,  when  the  Revolution  was  at  its  height,  and 
the  children  of  the  missionaries  were  on  their  way  to  the 
Chefoo  Schools,  190  persons  stayed  in  the  Home,  and  for  the 
twelve  months  from  October  1911  to  September  1912,  which 
was  a  period  of  considerable  unrest,  the  aggregate  of  those 
who  passed  through  this  Home  in  Shanghai — many,  of 
course,  more  than  once — was  no  less  than  1333. 

Many  and  many  times  the  story  has  been  told  of  how 
God  has  supplied  the  needed  funds  for  the  work  of  the 
Mission.  No  less  wonderful  is  the  way  He  has  provided, 
often  by  special  gifts,  the  premises  needed  for  so  large  an 
organization.  And  the  premises  at  Shanghai  are  one  of  the 
most  remarkable  of  the  standing  monuments  of  a  Heavenly 
Father's  care.  At  the  entrance  is  the  following  inscription  : 

"  THESE  PREMISES  HAVE  BEEN  ERECTED  TO  THE  GLORY 
OF  GOD  AND  THE  FURTHERANCE  OF  HlS  KINGDOM  IN  CHINA, 
WITH  FUNDS  SPECIALLY  CONTRIBUTED  FOR  THE  PURPOSE." 

"  May  God's  Glory,  and  the  furtherance  of  His  Kingdom  be  ever 
our  aim,  and  no  less  object,"  wrote  Mr.  Taylor  after  first  entering  this 
Home.  "  I  feel  glad,"  he  added,  "  that  the  C.I.M.  was  not  even 
mentioned  in  the  inscription." 


THE  FIRST  AUSTRALASIAN  TARTY. 

Top  Bow.-Miss  Aspinall  (Mrs.  Allen),  [Montagu  Beaucliamp],  F.  Burdon,  A.  S.  Derenish,  Miss  B.  1 

Centre  Bow.— Miss  Lloyd  (Mrs.  Dr.  Williams),  Miss  Reed  (Mrs.  Fysh)  [J.  Hudson  Taylor],  Miss 

Goold),  Miss  M.  E.  Booth. 
Front  BowV— O.  Burgess,  Miss  Sorenson  (Mrs.  Strong),  A.  C.  Rogers,  Miss  F.  Box. 

To  face  -page  IPO. 


XXX 

AUSTRALASIA 

THE  wave  of  missionary  enthusiasm  which  swept  over 
North  America,  Scandinavia,  and  Germany  was  almost 
simultaneously  felt  in  Australasia.  This  was  surely  no 
accidental  coincidence,  but  only  another  proof  that 
He  who  had  bidden  His  disciples  pray  the  Lord  of  the 
Harvest  to  thrust  forth  labourers,  was  Himself  hearing 
and  answering  prayer.  While  the  Leaflet  To  Every 
Creature  was  being  written  in  England,  the  hearts  of  some 
of  God's  servants  in  Australasia  were  being  burdened  with 
China's  need.  To  quote  the  words  of  the  Rev.  Alfred 
Bird,  the  first  Honorary  Secretary  of  the  C.I.M.  Council  in 
Melbourne  : 

Towards  the  close  of  1889  the  hearts  of  four  ministers  of  the  Gospel 
in  Melbourne — two  Episcopalians  (the  Rev.  H.  B.  Macartney  and 
the  Rev.  Charles  H.  Parsons),  one  Presbyterian  (Rev.  Lockhart 
Morton),  and  one  Baptist  (Rev.  Alfred  Bird) — were  stirred  in  a  very 
special  manner  to  consider  and  pray  over  the  awful  needs  of 
China  as  the  greatest  heathen  continent  in  the  world,  and  the 
heathen  continent  geographically  and  commercially  the  nearest  to 
Australasia. 

Although  these  ministers  were  close  personal  friends, 
the  conviction  that  the  Church  of  Christ  in  Australasia  ought 
to  assist  in  sending  the  Gospel  to  China  was  not  a  conviction 
caught  from  one  another,  or  produced  as  the  result  of  mutual 
conference,  but  one  that  came  upon  them  separately  and 
simultaneously.  One  of  the  four,  the  Rev.  Charles  H. 

199 


200  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

Parsons,  volunteered  to  go  to  China,  and  after  some  corre 
spondence,  he  was  accepted  by  the  Rev.  H.  B.  Macartney, 
whom  Mr.  Taylor  had  empowered  to  act  on  his  behalf  in  the 
matter.  Without  delay  Mr.  Parsons  sailed,  and  reached 
Shanghai  on  April  29,  1890,  just  before  the  great  Missionary 
Conference. 

The  three  remaining  brethren  met  on  several  occasions 
to  consider  how  best  the  God-inspired  desire  for  the  evangeli 
zation  of  China  could  be  fulfilled,  and  concluded  that  the 
faith  principles  and  interdenominational  character  of  the 
C.I.M.  made  it  an  agency  with  which  the  Churches  in 
Australasia  could  happily  co-operate.  When  it  came  to 
their  knowledge  that  Mr.  Philip  Kitchen — subsequently  the 
Treasurer  of  the  Mission  in  Australasia — was  an  old  and 
tried  friend  of  the  Mission,  they  took  him  into  their  con 
sultations.  The  result  was  that  a  letter  was  sent  to  Mr. 
Taylor,  giving  some  account  of  what  had  happened,  and 
naming  the  brethren  interested. 

In  the  interval  between  the  sending  of  this  letter  and 
the  receiving  of  Mr.  Taylor's  reply,  Miss  Mary  Reed  of 
Tasmania,  who  had  shortly  before  been  invalided  home 
from  China,  was  invited  to  Victoria  for  the  purpose 
of  holding  a  series  of  drawing-room  meetings,  which  were 
attended  with  considerable  blessing.  Before  these  meet 
ings  in  Victoria  she  had  been  similarly  used  in  Tasmania, 
in  fact  so  much  so  that  Mr.  George  Soltau,  not  many  days 
before  Mr.  Parsons  had  sailed  from  Melbourne,  had  written 
to  Mr.  Taylor  proposing  the  formation  of  an  Australasian 
Council. 

It  was  abundantly  evident  that  God  was  leading  the 
Mission  towards  new  developments,  and  Mr.  Taylor,  after 
he  had  had  the  benefit  of  personal  conversation  with  Mr. 
Parsons  in  Shanghai,  cabled  to  Australia  authorizing  the 
formation  of  a  Local  Council.  This  cable  was  dispatched 
on  May  21,  the  day  after  the  close  of  the  Shanghai  Con 
ference,  and  Mr.  Taylor's  own  birthday.  On  the  following 
day  a  meeting  was  held  in  one  of  the  rooms  of  the  Collins 
Street  Baptist  Church,  Melbourne,  to  form  the  Australasian 
Council  of  the  China  Inland  Mission.  The  Rev.  H.  B. 


AUSTRALASIA  201 

Macartney  presided,  and  the  following  with  their  Chairman 
constituted  this  first  Council : 

Rev.  Samuel  Chapman,  Rev.  W.  L.  Morton,, 

Rev.  Alfred  Bird,  Mr.  Philip  Kitchen, 

Rev.  D.  O'Donnell,  Pastor  George  Soltau, 

and  Dr.  Flett. 

Mr.  Bird  was  appointed  Honorary  Secretary,  and  Mr.  Philip 
Kitchen  Treasurer.  At  this  first  meeting  the  names  of 
eight  candidates  were  mentioned  as  having  applied  to  go  to 
China,  four  of  whom  were  afterwards  accepted  and  sent. 

Towards  the  close  of  July  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor,  accom 
panied  by  Mr.  Montagu  Beauchamp,  sailed  from  Shanghai 
for  Australia,  with  the  purpose  of  meeting  this  newly-formed 
Council  and  more  thoroughly  organizing  the  work.  Meetings 
were  held  at  Newcastle,  Sydney,  Geelong,  Melbourne,  Caul- 
field,  Adelaide,  Hobart,  Launceston,  and  other  centres,  and 
Mr.  Taylor  asked,  with  the  Shanghai  Conference  appeal  for 
a  thousand  workers  still  fresh  in  his  mind,  that  Australasia 
might  send  out  a  hundred.  As  had  been  the  case  in  North 
America  and  elsewhere,  the  faith  and  courage  of  many 
Christians  were  stimulated  by  the  meetings  held,  and  over 
sixty  candidates  offered  for  the  Field.  Of  these  eleven  were 
accepted,  four  from  Victoria,  three  from  Tasmania,  three 
from  South  Australia,  and  one  from  New  South  Wales. 
This  group  of  workers  constituted  the  first  Australasian 
contingent  in  connection  with  the  C.I.M.,  and  sailed  from 
Sydney  in  company  with  Mr.  Taylor  on  November  20. 
They  were  followed  in  January  of  the  next  year  by  a  band  of 
three  men,  and  in  the  following  March  by  a  party  of  ladies, 
under  the  escort  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Southey,  by  which 
time  all  the  Colonies  except  Western  Australia  were  repre 
sented  in  the  Mission. 

Auxiliary  Councils  had  been  formed  by  Mr.  Taylor  at 
Sydney  and  Brisbane,  and  similar  Councils  were  subsequently 
established  at  Adelaide,  as  well  as  at  Auckland  and  Dunedin 
in  New  Zealand,  the  two  latter  as  one  result  of  a  visit  by 
Mr.  George  Nicoll.  Under  the  helpful  influences  of  the 
devoted  Honorary  Secretary,  Mr.  Bird,  the  work  was  both 


202  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

developed  and  consolidated  until  his  retirement  in  1893. 
In  1895,  after  the  return  of  Mr.  Thomas  Selkirk  to  Bhamo, 
who  during  1894-95  had  been  Acting-Secretary,  Mr.  Charles 
Fletcher  Whitridge,  who  had  been  Honorary  Secretary  of 
the  Adelaide  Auxiliary  Council  from  its  commencement,  was 
appointed  Secretary  at  Melbourne,  which  post  he  held 
until  his  lamented  death  from  typhoid  fever  on  April 
24,  1906. 

On  September  26,  1899,  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor,  this  time 
accompanied  by  his  wife,  left  for  his  second  visit  to 
Australasia,  and  on  arriving  at  Brisbane,  heard  the  good 
news  that  the  last  of  the  Hundred  prayed  for  for  China  had 
crossed  him  on  the  way.  Considerable  changes  had  taken 
place  in  the  personnel  of  the  Council  during  these  years,  and 
at  the  Tenth  Annual  Meeting,  held  on  the  tenth  anniversary 
of  the  first  Council  Meeting,  it  was  reported  that  only  one 
of  the  original  Council  still  remained  with  them.  Mr.  Philip 
Kitchen,  their  first  Treasurer,  who  was  said  to  have  lived 
for  the  Mission  next  to  Christ,  had  passed  to  his  Heavenly 
reward  ;  the  Rev.  Samuel  Chapman,  prince  of  Australian 
Preachers,  had  gone  to  be  with  His  Master  ;  Mr.  Macartney 
and  others  were  scattered  in  the  Lord's  Service  in  different 
parts  of  the  earth,  but  the  blessing  which  had  been  given  was 
not  to  be  traced  to  the  ordinary  sources  of  human  success, 
but  was  the  result  of  the  faithfulness  of  an  unchangeable 
God.  During  Mr.  Taylor's  first  visit  many  persons  had 
thought  that  the  appeal  for  a  Hundred  was  a  tremendous 
request  to  make,  but  at  these  Annual  Meetings  it  was  reported 
that  altogether  one  hundred  and  one  persons,  forty-five  men 
and  fifty-six  women,  had  gone  forth  during  the  ten  years,  out 
of  about  four  hundred  applications.  Twelve  of  these  had 
left  the  Mission  for  different  reasons,  and  four  had  died,  one 
of  whom  was  William  S.  Fleming,  the  first  C.I.M.  martyr. 

In  December  1908,  Mr.  John  Southey,1  who,  after  a  brief 
experience  in  China,  had  for  some  years  been  the  leader  of 

1  Mr.  Southey  had  been  Vicar  of  Ipswich,  Queensland,  from  May  1887 
to  March  1891.  Hearing  of  Mr.  Taylor's  visit  to  Melbourne  in  1890,  he 
invited  him  to  call  at  Brisbane  and  Ipswich  on  his  way  back  to  China. 
Mr.  Taylor  replied  saying  that  it  would  be  impossible  as  he  was  fully 


AUSTRALASIA  203 

the  work  in  Australasia,  was,  with  the  approval  of  the 
representatives  of  the  Mission  in  the  various  States  of 
Australia  and  New  Zealand,  appointed  by  Mr.  D.  E. 
Hoste  as  Home  Director  for  Australasia,  Mr.  James  H. 
Todd  being  his  colleague  as  Secretary,  and  Dr.  J.  J. 
Kitchen,  the  esteemed  and  honoured  Treasurer.  We  must 
not  attempt  to  follow  in  detail  the  varied  development  of 
the  work  in  Australasia.  Suffice  it  to  say  that  the  work 
has  been  prospered  and  blessed,  so  that  the  present  Aus 
tralasian  contingent  amounts  to  124  workers,  of  whom  52 
are  men  and  72  women.1 

We  must  return  now  in  thought  to  the  period  referred  to 
at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter.  During  the  years  1888  to 
1891  the  Mission  had  enjoyed  a  period  of  unprecedented 
expansion  through  the  welcome  reinforcements  received 
from  North  America,  Australasia,  and  the  Associate  Scandi 
navian  and  German  Missions.  One  hundred  new  workers 
from  Great  Britain  in  1887  was  a  great  thing,  but  so  far  as 
China  was  concerned  the  five  months  from  October  18, 1890, 
to  March  21, 1891,  was  more  remarkable  still,  for  during  this 
short  period  no  less  than  126  new  workers  were  welcomed 
by  the  Mission  in  Shanghai,  all  of  whom  the  Mission  was  able 
to  receive  in  the  new  Shanghai  premises. 

Yet  let  not  the  reader  think  that  all  was  smooth  and 
easy  sailing,  for  seldom  has  the  Mission  passed  through 
stormier  or  more  troubled  waters.  The  year  1891  was 
memorable  for  the  prevalence  of  riots,  especially  in  the 
Yangtze  Valley  ;  for  great  political  disquiet,  and  for  the 
threat enings  of  war.  There  was  much  sickness,  and  some 
of  the  Mission's  most  valued  workers  were  removed  by 

engaged  up  to  the  day  of  departure.  A  widely-extended  Strike,  however, 
delayed  all  shipping,  and  made  this  unpremeditated  visit  possible,  and  it 
was  this  visit  which  led  to  Mr.  Southey  joining  the  Mission. 

1  In  April  1891  an  Occasional  Paper  as  supplement  to  the  Southern 
Cross  was  published,  and  the  first  issue  of  the  Australasian  China's  Millions 
commenced  in  January  1893.  The  first  offices  were  at  19  Queen's  Walk, 
opened  in  November  1893.  These  were  vacated,  however,  in  December 
1897  for  the  present  quarters  at  267  Collins  Street.  The  first  Mission 
Home  was  in  the  suburb  of  Hawksburn.  This  was  subsequently  sold,  by 
permission  of  the  generous  donor,  and  a  larger  and  more  commodious 
Home  secured  at  Coppin's  Grove,  Hawthorn.  In  1906  an  Auxiliary 
Office  was  opened  in  Sydney. 


204  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

death,1  to  which  trials  may  be  added  unusually  prolonged 
financial  straitness,  and  both  private  and  public  criticism 
of  the  work.  What  all  the  strain  meant,  both  to  the  workers 
and  leaders,  can  hardly  be  better  conveyed  to  the  reader  than 
by  the  following  extract  from  a  semi-private  letter  written 
by  Mr.  Taylor  at  Shanghai  in  June  1891  : 

In  any  case,  we  are  the  servants  of  the  living  God,  and  He  is  able 
to  protect,  or  to  give  grace  to  suffer ;  and  it  is  well  that  He  is  the 
living  God,  and  that  we  are  His  servants  and  know  it.  Even  you, 
dear  Mr.  Howard,  can  scarcely  realize  what  it  is  to  be  out  here,  to 
know  and  love  our  dear  workers,  to  hear  of  their  sorrows  and  diffi 
culties,  their  disappointments  and  their  strifes ;  of  sickness  here 
needing  arrangements  for  succour  if  possible,  receiving  telegrams 
asking  for  direction  in  peril,  or  telling  it  may  be  of  death ;  accounts 
coming  in  of  massacre  and  arson,  and  all  the  untold  incidents  of  our 
ever  varying  experience — not  to  speak  of  the  ordinary  responsibilities 
and  the  pecuniary  claims  of  a  Mission  now  approaching  500  in  number. 
There  is  just  one  way  to  avoid  being  overwhelmed,  to  bring  every 
thing,  as  it  arises,  to  our  MASTER,  and  He  does  help  and  He  does  not 
misunderstand. 

It  is  not  altogether  to  be  wondered  at  that  the  adversary 
was  making  a  hard  set  against  the  work,  for  following  upon 
this  period  of  rapid  expansion  came  a  time  of  quite  un 
wonted  blessing.  Many  of  the  workers  upon  the  Field  were 
led  to  seek  the  fulness  of  the  Spirit,  and  not  a  few  of  the 
members  of  the  Mission  still  date  from  that  period  an  entry 
upon  a  deeper  and  fuller  spiritual  experience.  Even  the 
meetings  of  the  China  Council  were  suspended  for  special 
prayer.  The  Minute  for  April  16,  1892,  reads  : 

1  Herbert  L.  Norris,  the  beloved  Headmaster  of  the  Chefoo  Boys'  School, 
died  on  September  27,  1888,  from  hydrophobia  incurred  through  the  bite 
of  a  mad  dog  when  he  was  protecting  the  scholars  under  his  care. 

Adam  Dorward,  the  Superintendent  of  the  work  in  Hunan,  died  on 
October  2,  1888,  after  having  devoted  eight  years  to  pioneer  work  in 
Hunan. 

George  Stott,  who  opened  Wenchow  in  1867,  built  up  a  strong  station, 
and  laboured  there  for  twenty-three  years.  He  died  on  April  23,  1889. 

Mrs.  Meadows,  one  of  the  Lammermuir  party,  died  November  3,  1890. 

Dr.  James  Cameron,  the  great  pioneer-traveller,  died  on  August  14, 
1892. 

Only  a  few  names  can  be  mentioned  here,  and  these  are  the  senior 
workers. 


AUSTRALASIA  205 

Instead  of  meeting  for  conference,  the  China  Council  united  with 
the  members  of  the  Mission  in  Shanghai  in  seeking  for  themselves, 
the  whole  Mission  in  China,  and  the  Home  Councils,  the  filling  of  the 
Spirit. 

And  these  prayers,  as  has  been  already  indicated,  were 
not  in  vain. 


XXXI 

DIVIDING    THE    FIELD 

To  readers  of  the  Book  of  Joshua,  who  are  unfamiliar  with 
the  geography  and  topography  of  Palestine,  the  details  of 
the  division  of  the  land  among  the  various  tribes,  accom 
panied  with  all  the  particulars  of  borders  and  cities,  may 
not  be  interesting  reading.  The  arrangements,  however, 
were  necessary  and  essential  to  good  government,  and  the 
same  is  true  of  the  Mission-fields  of  the  world.  The  measure 
of  our  interest  in  such  geographical  divisions  will  generally 
be  gauged  by  our  knowledge  of  the  countries  concerned,  and 
lest  a  multiplicity  of  detail  should  weary  the  reader,  only 
the  bare  outline  of  important  divisions  of  territory  will  be 
referred  to  in  this  chapter. 

The  rapid  growth  of  the  Mission — the  constitution  of 
which  is  interdenominational  rather  than  undenominational 
— accompanied  as  it  had  been  by  large  reinforcements  from 
different  countries,  soon  raised  the  important  question  of 
special  spheres  of  service.  Though  it  is  required  of  all  who 
join  the  Mission  that  they  shall  be  able  to  have  fellowship 
with  members  of  Protestant  denominations  other  than  their 
own,  and  though  it  is  recognized  that  it  is  not  desirable  that 
those  features  of  a  particular  denomination  which  are  due 
to  social,  political,  and  other  national  influences  at  home, 
should  be  repeated  on  the  Field,  the  policy  of  the  Mission 
affords  scope  for  the  development  on  evangelical  lines  of 
each  and  all  of  the  different  Protestant  denominations.  In 
this  way  the  C.I.M.  seeks  to  be  the  servant  and  helper  of 
each  and  all  the  Churches,  and  affords  an  outlet  for  evangelical 

206 


DIVIDING  THE  FIELD  207 

workers  belonging  to  all  denominations,  many  of  whom 
possibly  might  otherwise  be  precluded  from  engaging  in 
organized  work  in  China. 

In  addition  to  the  necessity  of  grouping  workers  with 
denominational  preferences  together,  there  were  other 
problems  arising  from  Associate  workers  coming  from 
different  countries,  speaking  different  languages,  having 
independent  financial  arrangements,  and  responsible  to 
separate  Home  organizations.  To  meet  the  varying  situa 
tions  thus  occasioned,  a  division  of  the  Field  had  to  be  faced 
as  the  need  arose. 

In  the  year  1886,  five  members  of  the  Cambridge  Band, 
Messrs.  Cassels,  Beauchamp,  Studd,  and  Cecil  and  Arthur 
Polhill  visited  the  province  of  Szechwan,  in  which  there  were 
then  only  nine  missionary  workers.  In  October  of  the 
following  year  the  Rev.  W.  W.  Cassels  received  from  Dr. 
George  Moule,  who  as  Bishop  in  Mid-China  had  nominal 
Episcopal  jurisdiction  over  Szechwan,  a  license  to  take 
charge  of  the  work  in  the  Paoning  district,  in  which  work 
he  was  joined  by  Messrs.  Arthur  Polhill,  Montagu 
Beauchamp,  and  others  who  desired  to  work  in  connection 
with  the  Church  of  England. 

To  facilitate  this  arrangement,  eastern  Szechwan  was 
allotted  to  them  as  their  particular  sphere  of  service. 
The  Kialing  River,  which  enters  the  Yangtze  at  Chung 
king,  was  taken  as  the  boundary,  and  all  Szechwan  east 
of  this  became  known  as  the  C.I.M.  Church  of  England 
sphere. 

In  the  year  1892,  the  Church  Missionary  Society  responded 
to  the  importunate  requests  of  the  Rev.  J.  Hey  wood  Hors- 
burgh,  and  sent  out  a  band  of  men  and  women  under  his 
leadership,  which  band  became  closely  identified  with  these 
Church  of  England  workers  in  Szechwan,  especially  during 
the  early  years.  In  1894  these  C.M.S.  workers  were  enabled 
to  occupy  five  cities  within  a  district  lying  to  the  west  of 
Paoning,  and  this  district,  extending  to  the  borders  of  Tibet, 
is  known  as  the  C.M.S.  sphere  in  Szechwan.  By  this  time 
Bishop  Moule  had  given  licenses  to  three  or  four  Church  of 
England  members  of  the  C.I.M.,  and  as  he  found  himself 


208  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

unable  to  visit  a  part  of  his  diocese  two  thousand  miles  away, 
both  he  and  the  C.M.S.  at  home  addressed  the  Archbishop 
of  Canterbury  suggesting  a  sub-division  of  his  diocese.  The 
man  who  approved  himself  to  them  as  the  most  suitable  for 
the  new  office  thus  formed  was  the  Rev.  W.  W.  Cassels,  with 
the  result  that  the  C.M.S.  in  the  most  friendly  and  cordial 
manner  approached  the  C.I.M.  to  see  if  such  a  proposal  would 
be  approved.  As  an  illustration  of  the  spirit  which  both 
prompted  this  approach  and  has  governed  all  relationships 
since,  we  cannot  do  better  than  quote  one  paragraph  from 
the  C.M.S.  official  letter  on  this  subject. 

"  It  is  indeed/'  wrote  the  Rev.  B.  Baring-Gould,  the  Secretary  of 
the  C.M.S.  under  date  of  July  12,  1895,  "  a  comfort  for  us  to  know 
that  you  will  join  your  prayers  with  ours  that  this  scheme,  if  carried 
out,  may  be  overruled  for  the  deepening  and  extending  of  the  Church 
of  Christ  in  western  China  ;  and  that  the  sevenfold  gifts  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  may  be  vouchsafed  in  rich  abundance  to  him  who,  as  we  trust, 
will  be  called  of  God  to  exercise  so  momentous  and  blessed  an  influence 
over  the  infant  Church  in  western  China,  and  that,  as  we  trust,  for 
many  years  to  come." 

The  C.M.S.  guaranteed  the  Episcopal  stipend,  the  C.I.M. 
heartily  approved  of  the  nomination,  and  Archbishop  Benson, 
with  warm  interest  and  "  with  all  his  usual  graciousness," 
appointed  the  C.I.M.  leader  in  Szechwan  to  the  new 
Bishopric.  The  first  public  announcement,  so  Dr.  Eugene 
Stock  tells  us,  was  made  at  the  great  Saturday  Missionary 
Meeting  at  Keswick,  and  drew  forth  much  prayerful 
sympathy  and  interest,  and  on  October  18,  1895,  the  Rev. 
W.  W.  Cassels  was  consecrated  as  the  first  Bishop  of  the 
Diocese  of  Western  China.  A  week  later  he  sailed  for 
this  far  -  distant  sphere  of  service,  and  from  Shanghai 
addressed  a  characteristic  letter  to  the  missionary  workers 
in  his  new  diocese,  headed  with  these  words  :  "  I  am  but 
a  little  child  "  ;  "  Jesus  called  a  little  child  unto  Him, 
and  set  him  in  the  midst  "  ;  "A  little  child  shall  lead 
them." 

Bishop  Cassels  still  remains  a  member  of  the  C.I.M., 
though  as  Bishop  he  is  also  upon  the  C.M.S.  roll  of  mission 
aries,  and  in  him  the  Mission  has  a  unique  and  valued  link 


DIVIDING  THE  FIELD  209 

with  our  brethren  of  another  Society.  Loyal  to  his  con 
victions  as  a  Churchman,  he  illustrates  in  a  peculiar  degree 
the  possibility  of  that  motto  :  "  All  one  in  Christ  Jesus," 
for  which  the  C.I.M.  seeks  to  stand.  How  truly  he  is  in 
sympathy  with  the  C.I.M.  lines  is  shown  by  the  following 
sentences  taken  from  an  address  given  in  England  shortly 
before  his  consecration. 

Speaking  upon  one  of  the  C.I.M.  mottoes  "  Ebenezer," 
he  said  : 

There  is  the  Hitherto  of  Blessing.  God  has  blessed  us  as  a  Mission  ; 
He  has  blessed  our  leaders  ;  He  has  blessed  our  organization  ;  and  I 
should  be  robbing  God  of  His  glory  if  I  did  not  testify  that  He  has 
been  blessing  me  as  an  individual.  .  .  .  Again,  there  is  the  Hitherto 
of  Helping.  I  wonder  if  I  may  stop  to  draw  back  the  curtain  for  a 
moment  that  God  may  be  glorified.  Take  one  instance.  Suppose 
you  were  just  about  to  be  married,  and  suddenly  you  were  robbed 
of  your  silver  and  the  greater  part  of  your  clothing.  You  would 
consider  yourself  in  rather  an  uncomfortable  predicament.  But 
supposing  that  very  night  you  received  a  cheque  in  a  most  unusual 
and  exceptional  manner,  sent  off  weeks  before,  would  you  not  say  that 
God  was  taking  care  of  you,  and  perhaps  wanted  to  provide  for  you 
that  new  outfit,  on  such  an  occasion,  which  you  had  denied  yourself  ? 
That,  at  any  rate,  is  what  we  said.  Or  again,  supposing  that  your 
funds  had  come  to  an  end,  and  from  day  to  day  you  cast  yourself 
upon  the  Lord  with  prayer  and  fasting,  with  a  God-given  confidence 
and  holy  joy,  no  one  but  He  knowing  your  circumstances,  and  suppose 
that  the  day  before  some  special  amount  had  to  be  met  you  received 
the  exact  sum  put  into  your  hands  in  a  most  exceptional  manner, 
would  not  a  thrill  of  gratitude  go  through  you,  as  you  recognized  God's 
hand  ?  That,  at  any  rate,  was  the  case  with  me. 

Without  following  in  such  detail  the  development  of 
denominational  districts  elsewhere,  it  may  perhaps  suffice 
to  indicate  that  the  Mission  has  arranged  for  a  Methodist 
district  in  Yunnan  for  those  who  desire  to  work  upon 
Methodist  lines,  and  Presbyterian  districts  in  east  Chekiang, 
north  Anhwei,  and  north-west  Hunan,  this  later  district 
being  opened  by  the  Rev.  George  Hunter,  a  Scotch  Presby 
terian  minister,  as  will  be  related  more  fully  in  Chapter 
XXXV.  on  the  Opening  of  Hunan. 

We  must  now  turn  to  consider  those  divisions  of  territory 

p 


210  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

connected  with  the  Associate  Missions.  In  the  early  summer 
of  1894  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor  felt  that  certain  problems  which 
were  threatening  the  usefulness  and  very  existence  of  some 
of  the  Associate  Missions  made  it  necessary  for  him,  despite 
the  summer  heat,  to  visit  without  delay  some  of  the  stations 
inland.  In  consequence,  he  and  his  wife,  accompanied  by 
Dr.  and  Mrs.  Howard  Taylor  and  Mr.  J.  J.  Coulthard,  left 
Hankow  on  May  22.  The  first  stage,  a  distance  of  270 
miles  to  Chowkiakow  in  Honan,  was  traversed  by  means  of 
barrows,  from  which  station  the  party  took  carts  to  Sianfu, 
the  capital  of  Shensi,  nearly  500  miles  to  the  north-west. 
This  city  was  reached  on  June  26,  and  an  important  Con 
ference  was  held  with  the  members  of  the  Scandinavian 
Alliance  Mission,  which  Conference,  among  other  things,  led 
to  a  demarkation  of  their  sphere  of  service.  Up  to  this 
time  some  of  the  workers  of  this  Mission  had  been  located  in 
the  north,  some  in  Chekiang,  and  others  in  Kiangsi.  Now 
it  was  arranged  that  a  district  extending  from  Sianfu  to  the 
north-west,  including  the  adjacent  parts  of  eastern  Kansu, 
was  to  be  considered  as  apportioned  to  them.  It  was  agreed 
that  the  workers  still  resident  in  the  south  should  be  given 
the  opportunity  of  coming  north,  and  this  transfer  of  workers 
took  place  during  the  following  year,  when  Mr.  Franson 
personally  visited  China. 

From  Sianfu  Mr.  Taylor  and  party  crossed  over  into 
Shansi,  the  station  of  Yuncheng  being  reached  on  July  10. 
What  such  a  journey  meant  in  the  height  of  summer  may  be 
gathered  from  the  fact  that  at  times  the  thermometer  stood 
at  120°  F.  in  the  carts  in  which  the  party  travelled,  with 
the  result  that  Mr.  Taylor  was  for  a  time  seriously  indis 
posed.  At  Yuncheng,  the  centre  of  the  Swedish  Mission 
in  China,  a  two  days'  Conference  was  held,  when  it  was 
agreed  that  that  Mission  should  work  in  the  ten  Hsiens  of 
Tungchowfu  in  Shensi,  and  in  the  six  Hsiens  of  Puchowfu 
and  four  Hsiens  of  Haichow  in  Shansi.  The  work  of  this 
Mission,  however,  subsequently  spread  across  the  Yellow 
River  into  the  north-west  of  Honan,  until  their  field  has  now 
become  so  enlarged  as  to  include  38  Hsien  districts  in  the 
three  provinces  of  Shensi,  Shansi,  and  Honan. 


DIVIDING  THE  FIELD  211 

From  Yiincheng,  Mr.  Taylor  proceeded  north,  holding  a 
Conference  at  Pingyangfu  on  July  17,  when  a  company  of 
thirty-five  missionaries  were  gathered  together.  Memorable 
visits  were  also  paid  to  the  home  of  Pastor  Hsi,  and  to  other 
stations  on  the  line  of  route  along  the  great  North  Road, 
some  of  the  results  of  which  were  that  the  Mission  decided 
to  retire  from  its  stations  outside  the  northern  arm  of  the 
Great  Wall  in  favour  of  the  Christian  Missionary  Alliance, 
which  was  working  there  and  expected  large  reinforcements. 
This  Mission,  however,  suffered  so  severely  through  the 
Boxer  outbreak  a  few  years  later,  that  it  was  not  able  to 
reoccupy  this  territory,  which  subsequently  became  the 
sphere  of  the  Swedish  Alliance  Mission  associated  with  the 
C.I.M. 

Another  issue  was  that  the  members  of  the  Swedish 
Holiness  Union  expressed  their  desire  to  concentrate  their 
efforts  upon  the  district  between  the  two  arms  of  the  Great 
Wall  in  Shansi.  This  proposal  was  favourably  considered, 
though  it  was  not  actually  made  operative  until  Mr.  Taylor 
visited  Sweden  two  years  later.  Among  other  results  of  this 
journey  and  a  subsequent  visit  to  the  provinces,  new  arrange 
ments  were  made  for  the  superintendence  of  the  work  in 
parts  of  Shansi  and  Chihli  by  Mr.  D.  E.  Hoste  and  Mr. 
Bagnall  respectively,  and  Mr.  Botham  was  appointed  as 
Assistant  Superintendent  to  help  Mr.  Easton  in  Shensi  and 
eastern  Kansu.  Though  it  belongs  to  a  much  later  period, 
it  is  well  not  to  leave  these  northern  provinces  without 
mentioning  that  the  Norwegian  Mission  in  China,  also 
associated  with  the  C.I.M.,  has  had  its  sphere  located  in  the 
north-west  mountain  district  of  Shansi,  and  the  Norwegian 
Alliance  Mission  has  made  the  city  of  Lungchiichai  in 
Shensi  the  centre  of  its  operations. 

In  the  south  of  China,  a  special  district  in  Chekiang, 
with  Chuchow  for  its  centre,  had  been  allocated  to  the 
German  China  Alliance  in  1893,  and  six  years  later,  owing 
to  the  growth  of  the  work  of  this  Mission,  its  sphere  was 
increased  by  the  addition  of  another  contiguous  district 
across  the  border  of  the  province  in  the  south-east  of  Kiangsi. 
Later  still  it  was  decided  that  the  Liebenzell  Mission  should 


212  THE  THIRD  DECADE 

be  located  in  Hunan,  which  Mission  is  now  responsible,  so 
far  as  the  C.I.M.  is  concerned,  for  the  greater  part  of  that 
province.  The  details  of  this,  however,  will  be  reserved 
to  another  chapter  speaking  more  fully  of  work  in  that 
province. 


THE    FOURTH    DECADE 

1895-1905 

CHAP.  32.  THE  WRATH  OF  MAN. 

„  33.  NEWINGTON  GREEN. 

„  34.  THE  CHEFOO  SCHOOLS. 

„  35.  THE  OPENING  OF  HUNAN. 

„  36.  AMONG  THE  TRIBES. 

„  37.  THE  BOXER  CRISIS. 

„  38.  PARTAKERS  OF  THE  AFFLICTIONS  OF  THE  GOSPEL. 

.,  39.  REBUILDING  THE  WALL. 


213 


I  hold  not  my  life  of  any  account,  as  dear  unto  myself,  so  that  I  may 
accomplish  my  course,  and  the  ministry  which  I  received  from  the  Lord 
Jesus,  to  testify  the  Gospel  of  the  grace  of  God. 

ST.  PAUL. 


But  I  do  humbly  conceive  that  when  we  devote  ourselves  to  missionary 
work,  we  should  lay  our  all,  yea,  and  our  lives  too,  upon  the  missionary 
altar  ;  and  then  come  joy,  come  sorrow  ;  come  success,  come  disappoint 
ment  ;  come  sickness,  come  health  ;  come  life,  come  death  ;  all,  and 
everything,  shall  be  a  sweet  privilege  in  the  service  of  such  a  Master  as 
Jesus  Christ. 

Rev.  SAMUEL  DYER. 


O  that  I  had  a  martyr's  heart,  if  not  a  martyr's  death  and  a  martyr's 
crown  ! 

J.  HUDSON  TAYLOR. 


XXXII 

THE  WRATH   OF  MAN 

No  period  of  China's  history  is  more  pregnant  with  moment 
ous  events  than  the  new  decade  upon  which  the  Mission 
entered  in  1895.  Three  times  since  the  death  of  Dr.  Robert 
Morrison  in  1834,  China  had  been  engaged  in  war  with 
Foreign  Powers,  namely,  during  the  Opium  War  of  1840, 
the  Arrow  War  of  1860,  and  the  War  with  France  in 
1884.  Each  of  these  terrible  occasions  had  been  used  by 
God,  who  maketh  the  wrath  of  man  to  praise  Him,  to  open 
more  fully  the  doors  of  China  to  the  Gospel.  Yet  during 
the  more  than  fifty  odd  years  which  had  elapsed  between 
the  first  of  these  wars  in  1840  and  the  opening  of  the  new 
decade  of  which  we  now  desire  to  speak,  events  had  moved 
but  slowly.  Chinese  opposition,  it  is  true,  had  reluctantly 
yielded  before  the  force  majeure  of  Western  Powers,  but 
after  each  conflict  China  had  sought  to  settle  down  again 
into  her  former  self-complacent  ways. 

With  the  year  1895,  however,  a  new  era  dawned  in  which 
history  was  to  march  forward  with  an  almost  incredible 
rapidity.  This  change  dates  from  China's  war  with  Japan, 
when  China's  pride  and  self-confidence  were  to  be  rudely 
shaken  by  the  crushing  defeat  she  experienced  at  the  hands 
of  her  hitherto  much -despised  island  neighbour.  And 
this  war  was  only  the  prelude  of  more  far-reaching  troubles, 
for  China's  humiliation  was  followed  by  widespread  riots, 
by  sad  massacres,  by  the  seizure  of  Chinese  territory  by 
Foreign  Powers,  by  the  coup  d'etat  of  1898,  by  the  Boxer 
crisis  of  1900,  and  finally  by  the  terrific  war,  fought  upon 

215 


2i6  THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

Chinese  soil,  between  Russia  and  Japan,  which  was  to 
usher  in  a  new  epoch  in  the  history  of  the  world. 

With  the  immediate  cause  of  the  war  between  China 
and  Japan  we  have  no  concern  here.  The  conflict  opened 
at  sea  on  July  25,  1894,  and  practically  closed  by  the  fall 
of  Weihaiwei  in  February  1895,  after  the  total  destruction 
of  the  Chinese  Fleet  and  the  capture  of  Port  Arthur.  This 
humiliating  and  thorough  defeat  by  the  Japanese  fairly 
staggered  China,  and  compelled  her  to  face  the  facts  of 
modern  life  as  she  had  never  done  before. 

During  these  months  of  strife,  missionar}^  work  had 
continued  throughout  the  greater  part  of  the  country 
without  much  let  or  hindrance,1  but  with  the  disbanding 
of  the  Chinese  soldiery  and  the  slow  awakening  of  the 
people  to  the  real  facts  of  their  defeat — for  false  victories 
had  at  first  been  sedulously  circulated — serious  disturbances 
broke  out.  The  first  outbreaks  were  in  the  Far  West,  and 
possibly  were  but  indirectly  connected  with  the  war.  On 
May  28,  1895,  the  Canadian  Methodist  Mission  premises, 
in  the  capital  of  Szechwan,  were  attacked  and  destroyed, 
and  on  the  following  day  the  remaining  Protestant  and 
Roman  Catholic  Missions  in  the  same  city  shared  the  same 
fate.  As  the  news  of  these  riots  spread,  it  was  like  a  spark 
to  gunpowder,  for  rioting  of  a  more  or  less  serious  nature 
speedily  followed  in  Kwanhsien,  Kiating,  Suifu,  Luchow, 
Paoning,  and  other  places  where  the  C.I.M.  had  stations. 
The  officials,  happily,  in  most  cases,  gave  what  protection 
they  could  to  those  in  danger,  so  that  mercifully  no  lives 
were  lost,  though  subsequent  investigation  proved  that  the 
Viceroy  was  personally  implicated.  So  widespread  and 
threatening  was  the  trouble  that  a  large  number  of  Protestant 
missionaries  left  the  province,  including  a  few  of  the  C.I.M. 
Yet  many  of  those  who  suffered  the  loss  of  all  things  and 
experienced  no  small  nervous  strain,  referred  bravely 
and  brightly  to  their  trials.  Mrs.  Ririe,  for  instance, 
wrote  : 

1  We  do  not  here  refer  to  Manchuria,  where  the  C.I.M.  has  no  work, 
and  where  the  Rev.  J.  Wylie  of  the  United  Free  Church  Mission  was 
murdered  by  Manchu  soldiers  on  August  10,  1894. 


THE  WRATH  OF  MAN  217 

Dr.  Hart  thought  we  ought  to  go  down  river  with  them,  and  sent 
a  boat  across  for  us,  but  we  preferred  to  go  to  the  Yamen.  We  shall 
wait  here,  God  willing,  till  the  students  are  gone  in  three  weeks'  time. 
The  Mandarin  sends  our  meals  very  nicely  done  up  in  Chinese  fashion, 
so  there  is  no  reason  whatever  for  you  to  fret.  We  will,  D.V.,  begin 
over  again  as  soon  as  possible,  if  the  Consul  permits  us  to  stay.  We 
are  all  of  one  mind  :  "Do  not  go  till  we  have  to."  Our  hearts  are  at 
peace  and  God's  promises  are  our  stay.  We  are  among  the  blessed 
to-day,  and  far  better  off  than  our  Master,  who  had  nowhere  to  lay 
His  head.  We  have  comfortable  beds  and  slept  soundly. 

While  these  troubles  were  proceeding  in  the  west,  a 
serious  persecution  of  Chinese  Christians  commenced  among 
some  of  the  Mission's  converts  at  Pingyanghsien  in  Chekiang. 
Twenty-two  families  had  their  houses  and  possessions 
destroyed,  and  fifty-nine  persons  were  compelled  to  seek 
shelter  in  the  Mission  premises  at  the  central  station.  And 
then  right  in  the  midst  of  this  time  of  stress  and  strain,  came 
like  a  thunderbolt  the  terrible  news  of  the  massacre  of  the 
Church  Missionary  Society's  and  the  Church  of  England 
Zenana  Missionary  Society's  workers,  at  the  little  mountain 
retreat  of  Hwasang,  Kucheng,  on  August  i.  Though  the 
terrible  news  was  received  with  a  burst  of  horror  and 
sympathy  from  the  whole  civilized  world,  and  a  cry  for 
vengeance  arose  in  certain  quarters,  yet,  by  the  grace  of 
God,  nothing  was  expressed  at  the  great  meeting,  held  in 
Exeter  Hall,  but  "  pity  for  the  misguided  murderers,  thanks 
giving  for  the  lives  of  the  martyrs,  and  fervent  desires  for 
the  evangelization  of  China  "  ;  and  the  committee  of  the 
C.M.S.,  among  eight  resolutions  adopted  on  this  occasion, 
desired 

To  place  on  record  their  unfaltering  belief  that  no  disasters,  however 
great,  should  be  allowed  to  interfere  with  the  prosecution  of  that 
purpose  for  which  the  society  exists,  namely,  the  evangelization  of  the 
world,  which  in  its  divine  origin  is  without  conditions. 

Unfortunately,  the  troubles  did  not  cease  with  this  sad 
massacre  in  Fukien.  In  the  far  north-west  a  terrible 
Mohammedan  rebellion  broke  out,  which  devastated  large 
tracts  of  country,  and  resulted  in  the  loss  of  countless  lives. 
During  this  time,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ridley,  with  their  little  son, 


218  THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

and  Mr.  Hall,  all  of  the  C.I.M.,  were  shut  up  for  many  months 
in  Siningfu,  one  of  the  besieged  cities.  For  five  and  a  half 
months  no  communication  reached  these  workers,  not  even 
from  their  nearest  mission  station,  and  for  nine  months 
they  were  without  letters  or  supplies.  Yet  God  was  with 
them,  and  in  many  remarkable  ways  provided  for  them.1 

During  this  anxious  and  trying  time  these  besieged 
friends  in  Siningfu  were  enabled  to  attend  over  noo  wounded 
people,  to  treat  900  cases  of  diphtheria,  and  dispense  medicine 
to  hundreds  of  others  suffering  from  varying  complaints, 
and  in  this  way  they  were  enabled  to  do  more  to  teach  the 
people  of  those  parts,  who  had  hitherto  been  unfriendly, 
that  there  was  a  living  and  loving  God,  than  would  have 
been  possible  during  many  years  of  ordinary  service. 

But  even  this  does  not  complete  the  list  of  sorrows. 
Early  in  October  cholera  entered  the  Mission  compound  at 
Wenchow,  Chekiang,  and  within  a  few  days  three  beloved 
missionaries,  five  Chinese  converts,  and  one  child  had 
succumbed.  The  schools  had  to  be  disbanded,  and  the 
ordinary  work  of  the  station  suspended.  In  addition  to 
all  these  troubles,  the  Mission  was  sustaining  the  trial  of 
shortness  of  funds. 

Yet  in  the  midst  of  all  these  multiplied  anxieties,  God 
was  working  and  giving  blessing.  In  1895  the  Mission  was 
able  to  rejoice  that  more  converts  had  been  baptized  than 
in  any  previous  year,  and  in  1896,  which  was  the  first  year 
when  the  baptisms  rose  into  four  figures,  there  was  a  further 
increase  of  fully  50  per  cent,  and  this  increase  in  blessing 
was  common  to  other  Societies.  The  British  and  Foreign 
Bible  Society,  for  instance,  reported  that  though  only  five 
and  three-quarter  million  copies  of  the  Scriptures  had  been 
circulated  in  China  in  the  more  than  eighty  years  from  1813 
—when  Dr.  Morrison's  translation  of  the  New  Testament 
was  printed — up  to  the  close  of  1895,  the  next  four  years 
alone  showed  a  circulation  of  over  two  and  a  half  million 
copies. 

The  years  which  followed  the  war  were,  in  not  a  few 

1  See  Faith  and  Facts,  pp.  46-52.  Morgan  &  Scott,  Ltd.  One  shilling 
net. 


THE  WRATH  OF  MAN  219 

places,  times  of  much  blessing.  Therefore,  rather  than  be 
discouraged  by  the  long-continued  trials,  Mr.  Taylor  actually 
appealed  for  more  prayer  and  more  helpers.  It  will  be 
remembered  that  an  official  appeal  for  a  thousand  men 
within  five  years  had  been  issued  after  the  Shanghai  Mis 
sionary  Conference  of  1890.  When  these  five  years  had 
expired,  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor  published  a  small  leaflet  which 
showed  that  although  God's  answer  had  been  somewhat 
other  than  the  request,  yet  1153  new  workers  had  arrived 
in  China  during  the  five  years  succeeding  the  Conference. 
Instead  of  a  thousand  men,  God  had  sent  481  men  and  672 
women.  As  this  leaflet  was  published  just  at  the  time 
when  peace  was  signed  between  China  and  Japan,  Mr. 
Taylor  wrote  : 

An  important  crisis  in  China's  history  has  been  reached.  The 
war  just  terminated  does  not  leave  her  where  she  stood.  It  will 
inevitably  lead  to  a  still  wider  opening  of  the  empire  and  to  many  new 
developments.  If  the  Church  of  Christ  does  not  enter  into  the  opening 
doors,  others  will.  ...  In  view  of  the  new  facilities  and  enlarged 
claims  of  China,  the  next  five  years  should  see  a  larger  reinforcement 
than  that  called  for  in  1890.  Will  not  the  Church  arise  and  take 
immediate  and  adequate  action  to  meet  the  pressing  needs  of  this 
vast  land  ? 


XXXIII 
NEWINGTON   GREEN 

As  the  new  decade  opened  with  changed  conditions  in 
China,  so  it  also  saw  changes  in  the  Home  department  in 
Great  Britain.  Three  somewhat  clearly  marked  stages  are 
easily  discernible  in  the  work  at  home,  each  stage  associated 
with  one  of  the  three  centres,  East  Grinstead,1  Pyrland 
Road,1  and  Newington  Green.  When  Mr.  Berger  retired 
in  1872,2  there  were  about  thirty  workers  on  the  field  ;  when 
Mr.  Broomhall  retired  in  1895,  and  the  offices  were  removed 
from  Pyrland  Road  to  Newington  Green,  the  membership 
had  risen  to  630.  With  the  advent  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Broom- 
hall  at  Pyrland  Road  in  the  early  summer  of  1875,  their 
home  had  been  opened  to  the  many  candidates  who,  during 
what  was  the  Mission's  most  rapid  period  of  growth,  stayed 
in  London.  During  these  years,  to  quote  the  Council 
Minutes  of  1895  : 

It  was  the  privilege  of  candidates  for  China  to  be  welcomed  into 
the  happy  home  circle  at  No.  2  Pyrland  Road,  where  in  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Broomhall  a  great  many  of  our  members  now  labouring  in  China 
found  a  second  father  and  mother. 

It  became  evident,  however,  some  time  before  the  actual 
retirement  of  Mr.  Broomhall,  that  the  work  was  passing 
beyond  the  stage  when  the  most  expansive  of  homes — and 

1  See  Chapters  XIII.  and  XVIII.,  pp.  79  and  116. 

2  Mr.  Berger,  who  died  on  January  9,  1899,  aged  eighty-four,  maintained 
his  interest  in  the  work  to  the  last.     One  signal  illustration  of  this  was  his 
gift  of  ^4000  in   1889,   to  found  a  Superannuation  Fund  for  worn-out 
missionaries. 

220 


NEWINGTON  GREEN  221 

it  is  wonderful  how  expansive  love  can  make  a  home — 
could  compass  what  was  necessary.  With  the  object  of 
building  special  premises,  as  soon  as  God  supplied  the  funds, 
Inglesby  House,  a  large,  old-fashioned  dwelling  with  exten 
sive  gardens  behind,  situated  on  Newington  Green,  close  to 
Pyrland  Road,  was  purchased  in  September  1887.  This 
house  at  first  afforded  some  much-needed  accommodation 
for  the  men  candidates,  who  still  boarded  at  Pyrland  Road, 
but  it  gradually  became  the  centre  of  the  Men's  Candidate 
Department,  Mr.  Marcus  Wood,  who  had  had  eight  years' 
experience  in  China,  taking  charge  in  October  1890.  Several 
changes  in  the  leadership  of  this  Home  have  taken  place, 
the  writer  having  been  in  residence  there  for  nearly 
nine  years,  and  Mr.  J.  B.  Martin  —  who  has  recently 
been  appointed  Assistant  Secretary — since  the  autumn  of 
1908. 

Similar  changes  were  made  in  regard  to  the  women 
candidates.  In  June  1889,  a  Ladies'  Council  was  formed, 
the  first  meeting  of  this  Auxiliary  Council,  which  has  so 
materially  assisted  the  work,  taking  place  on  September  23, 
1889,  Miss  H.  E.  Soltau  being  appointed  Honorary  Secretary. 
Two  houses  in  Pyrland  Road,  Nos.  41  and  4IA,  were  rented 
for  offices  and  training-home  purposes,  this  Home  being 
moved  to  its  present  locality,  90  and  92  Grosvenor  Road, 
in  June  1903.  Throughout  the  more  than  twenty-five  years 
which  have  elapsed  since  these  arrangements  were  in 
augurated,  Miss  Soltau  has,  with  a  keen  zeal  for  China's 
evangelization  and  a  loving  care  for  all  who  have  come  under 
her  roof,  conducted  this  department. 

From  the  early  days  many  candidates  had  offered  from 
north  of  the  Tweed,  and  for  some  years  prior  to  1889,  a  ^ew 
friends  had  kindly  acted  as  referees  in  Scotland,  but  in 
October  1889,  a  Scottish  Auxiliary  Council  was  formed  to 
consider  more  thoroughly  the  cases  of  candidates  who 
applied,  and  to  help  in  the  development  of  the  work  locally. 
For  some  years  Mr.  William  Oates  of  Glasgow  kindly  acted 
as  Honorary  Secretary,  but  subsequently  Mr.  G.  Graham 
Brown  was  appointed  Secretary. 

In  these  ways  the  pressure  of  work  was  being  gradually 


222  THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

taken  from  the  over-burdened  shoulders  of  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Broomhall,  for  though  all  through  the  abnormally  busy 
years  when  "  the  Seventy  "  and  "  the  Hundred  "  sailed, 
all  the  candidates  had  been  lovingly  welcomed  into  their 
home,  such  a  procedure  obviously  had  its  limitations. 
Meanwhile  the  new  premises  on  Newington  Green  were 
being  erected,  the  heavy  outlay  both  for  the  purchase  of 
the  land  and  for  the  erection  of  the  buildings  being  made 
possible  through  one  or  two  munificent  donations  given 
for  this  purpose. 

With  the  opening  of  the  month  of  April  1895,  the  transfer 
of  offices  from  Pyrland  Road  to  Newington  Green  took 
place,  and  with  this  change  synchronized  Mr.  Broomhall's 
retirement.  During  his  years  of  service  at  Pyrland  Road 
he  had  laboured  in  a  way  that  few  men  could  have  endured 
physically,  for  his  almost  invariable  custom  had  been  not 
to  cease  his  day's  work  until  the  neighbouring  midnight 
post  had  gone. 

"  Few  probably  are  aware/'  reads  the  special  Minute  of  the  London 
Council,  "  of  the  immense  amount  of  labour  accomplished  by  Mr. 
Broomhall  in  past  days,  when  he  was  assisting  Mr.  Taylor  in  the  early 
and  rapid  development  of  the  Mission,  and  when  he  was  almost  single- 
handed  doing  the  work  now  divided  among  several,  and  they  feel  that 
no  words  of  theirs  can  adequately  express  all  that  the  Mission  owes 
to  his  untiring  energy  and  unbounded  labours." 

By  means  of  his  powers  of  persuasion,  his  personal 
influence,  his  undaunted  resolution,  and  his  genius  for 
winning  friends,  openings  for  the  advocacy  of  the  cause  of 
China  were  gained  in  most  of  the  large  towns  and  cities  of 
Great  Britain.  And  his  tenacity  of  purpose  enabled  him, 
in  the  years  of  life  that  still  remained  after  his  retirement, 
to  do  yeoman  service  in  the  cause  for  securing  the  cessation 
of  the  Opium  Traffic  between  India  and  China.  And  what 
Mr.  Broomhall  was  in  the  more  public  sphere,  Mrs.  Broomhall 
was  in  the  home,  caring  for  the  pressing  claims  of  her  large 
family,  assisting  with  the  outfitting  of  those  about  to  sail, 
and  ever  engaging — and  stimulating  others  to  do  the  same — 
in  prevailing  prayer  for  the  work  at  home  and  abroad.  By 
her  devotion  to  the  cause,  her  love  and  unselfish  care  for 


NEWINGTON  GREEN  223 

those  engaged  in  the  work,  she  has  won  an  imperishable 
place  in  the  affection  of  all  who  know  her. 

It  was  perhaps  inevitable  that  the  work  should,  whilst 
gaining  much  in  efficiency  by  the  development  of  its  organiza 
tion,  lose  something  by  its  transfer  from  the  family  circle 
to  more  business-like  quarters.  Yet  though  conditions 
may  have  changed,  the  homelike  spirit  still  remains,  and  is 
carefully  cultivated  in  the  various  Training  and  Mission 
Home  Centres.  Without  attempting  to  follow  all  the 
developments  which  have  taken  place  since  this  transfer 
to  Newington  Green  twenty  years  ago,  it  may  be  said  that 
the  increase  in  the  Mission's  membership — if  the  associates 
be  included — has  been  from  630  to  1076,  and  this  has 
inevitably  entailed  increased  responsibilities,  and  has  led 
to  departmental  developments. 

In  the  spring  of  1893,  two  years  before  the  change  of 
offices,  Mr.  W.  B.  Sloan  had  been  called  home  from  China, 
after  a  brief  period  of  service,  to  become  colleague  to  Mr. 
Broomhall,  so  that  when  the  latter  retired,  Mr.  Sloan  was 
happily  acquainted  with  the  details  of  the  work.  For  the 
ten  years  dating  from  the  spring  of  1893  to  the  spring  of 
1903,  Mr.  Sloan  served  as  Secretary,  two  years  in  fellowship 
with  Mr.  Broomhall,  two  years  alone,  and  then  for  nearly 
six  years  with  Mr.  Marcus  Wood,  who  had  for  the  two 
preceding  years  been  labouring  throughout  the  country  as 
Deputation  Secretary. 

In  the  spring  of  1903,  in  consequence  of  Mr.  Taylor's 
enforced  retirement  from  active  participation  in  the  Home 
affairs  of  the  Mission,  Mr.  Sloan  was  relieved  of  his  Secre 
tarial  duties  that  he  might  be  free,  as  Assistant  Home 
Director — Mr.  Theodore  Howard  being  Home  Director — to 
devote  attention  to  the  varied  needs  of  the  Mission,  and 
particularly  to  develop,  throughout  the  country  and  the 
Church  at  large,  a  deeper  sense  of  responsibility  for  the 
spread  of  the  Gospel  in  China.  In  London  Mr.  Wood  has 
continued  to  bear  the  heavy  burden  of  the  Secretary's 
office,  while  the  various  departments  have  been  steadily 
developed  and  made  more  efficient.  In  1901,  the  writer, 
after  more  than  eight  years'  experience  in  various  parts  of 


224  THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

China,  was  appointed  Editorial  Secretary,  in  which  office 
he  has  enjoyed  the  cordial  and  efficient  help  of  Mr.  T.  W. 
Goodall  as  Assistant  Editor. 

This  brief  and  all  too  imperfect  record  of  Home  affairs 
must  not  close  without  a  reference  to  the  Mission  Home  in 
London,  which  as  an  integral  part  of  the  Office  has  continued 
to  foster  that  family  spirit  so  characteristic  of  the  Mission 
from  its  commencement.  Here  for  nearly  fifteen  years 
Miss  Williamson,  who  had  previously  spent  about  eight 
years  as  Lady  Superintendent  of  the  Home  in  Shanghai, 
gave  herself  unsparingly,  as  an  honorary  worker,  to  the 
exacting  duties  of  a  large  and  busy  household,  ministering 
in  more  loving  and  generous  ways  than  will  ever  be  known, 
to  the  welfare  of  returned  or  departing  missionaries.  Toward 
the  close  of  1909,  Miss  Williamson  was  reluctantly  compelled, 
on  the  grounds  of  health,  to  relinquish  her  post,  which  has 
since  been  ably  filled  by  Miss  Holliday,  who  for  nine  years 
had  been  Miss  Williamson's  assistant. 


XXXIV 
THE   CHEFOO   SCHOOLS 

PROBABLY  few  things  have  done  more  in  recent  years  to 
promote  and  conserve  the  family  spirit  within  the  Mission 
than  the  arrangements  made  for  the  education  of  the 
missionaries'  children.  In  no  personal  problem  can  a  mis 
sionary  be  more  acutely  exercised,  for  herein  he  often  finds 
himself,  like  Abraham  of  old,  called  to  lay  his  child  or 
children  upon  the  altar  of  sacrifice  ;  yet  in  no  way  has  the 
Mission  proved  more  fully  the  loving-kindness  and  care  of 
God.  We  make  no  apology,  therefore,  for  devoting  a  short 
chapter  to  this  subject,  for  the  Schools  hold  an  important 
place  in  the  Mission's  organization,  and  the  teachers  in  the 
Schools  are  all  members  of  the  Mission,  who  have  accepted 
this  work  as  their  contribution  towards  the  evangelization 
of  China. 

Concerning  one  aspect  of  the  problem  involved  in  the 
education  of  missionaries'  children,  let  one  who  has  taught 
both  at  Chefoo  and  in  a  Missionary  School  in  England  give 
his  testimony  : 

I  know  how  serious  is  the  problem  of  separation.  It  means  a 
heartrending  blow,  and  at  least  two,  often  three,  broken  hearts.  I  have 
tried  the  almost  hopeless  task  of  comforting  a  boy  of  twelve,  whose 
parents  have  left  him  for  the  first  time  ;  and  I  have  known  even  a 
sadder  picture,  when  the  parents  have  come  back  after  seven  or  eight 
years,  to  find  their  children  almost  shy  to  meet  them,  almost  dreading 
and  tremulous  at  that  first  interview.  I  have  known  the  children 
to  often  leave  their  parents  at  such  a  moment,  and  go  off  to  their 
matron,  whom  they  have  learned  to  know  better  and  to  love  better 
than  their  fathers  and  mothers. 

225  Q 


226  THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

As  has  already  been  related  in  a  previous  chapter,1  the 
C.I.M.,  through  working  in  one  country  only,  has  been 
able  to  have  its  Schools  upon  the  field,  and  thus  minimise 
to  a  certain  extent  this  problem.  The  School  which  started 
so  humbly  in  1881  had  by  1896  grown  until  there  were  over 
one  hundred  scholars  resident  in  the  three  departments — 
the  Boys',  the  Girls',  and  the  Preparatory ;  the  Boys'  and 
Girls'  Schools  having  been  separated  in  1883,  and  the  Pre 
paratory  School  for  infants  from  five  to  ten  years  of  age 
being  opened  in  1895  in  premises  situated  at  Tungshin, 
about  three  miles  to  the  west  of  the  other  Schools. 

The  situation,  as  we  find  it  about  this  time,  was  a  great 
advance  upon  the  earlier  days,  yet  the  need  for  more  and 
better  accommodation  was  being  increasingly  felt,  for  the 
children  of  the  C.I.M.  workers  then  numbered  more  than 
two  hundred  in  all,  and  for  every  vacancy  that  was  made 
there  were  many  applicants.  The  increasing  need  was  laid 
before  God  in  prayer,  and  while  the  friends  at  Chefoo  were 
wondering  whence  the  money  would  come  for  the  necessary 
buildings,  Dr.  Douthwaite,  the  missionary -in -charge  at 
Chefoo  received  a  letter  from  a  member  of  the  Mission  saying, 
with  special  reference  to  the  Boys'  School,  "  The  Lord  has 
laid  it  upon  my  heart  to  bear  the  whole  cost  of  building  the 
School." 

The  work  was  speedily  put  in  hand,  and  with  Mr.  E.  J. 
Cooper  as  architect,  and  several  experienced  missionary 
helpers,  of  whom  we  may  mention  Messrs.  Bailer  and 
Tomalin,  the  buildings  were  erected.  For  this  task  several 
hundred  men  were  employed,  among  whom  regular  evangel 
istic  work  was  carried  on,  with  the  gratifying  result  that 
fifteen  of  their  number  applied  for  baptism,  though  only 
four  were  finally  received. 

June  15,  1896,  was  a  memorable  day,  for  at  four  o'clock 
in  the  afternoon  the  Foundation  Stone  was  laid  by  Dr. 
Douthwaite.  Overhead  the  Union  Jack,  the  Stars  and 
Stripes  and  Chinese  flags  floated  in  friendly  proximity,  with 
the  place  of  honour  given  to  the  School  colours.  The 
stone  laid  bore  the  following  inscription  : 

1  See  Chap.  XX.  p.  133. 


THE  CHEFOO  SCHOOLS  227 

HITHERTO  HATH  THE  LORD  HELPED  us. 


THIS  FOUNDATION  STONE  is  LAID 

TO   COMMEMORATE 
THE   FAITHFULNESS    OF   GOD 
IN   CONNECTION  WITH  THE 

CHINA  INLAND   MISSION   SCHOOLS 

WHICH   WERE   FOUNDED   A.D.    l88l 
FOR   THE   EDUCATION   OF   CHILDREN   OF   MISSIONARIES. 


THE  LORD  WILL  PROVIDE. 
June  15,  1896. 

Simultaneously  with  the  erection  of  the  Boys'  School,  the 
new  Girls'  School  was  being  built.  The  progress  of  all  this 
building  was  not  so  simple  as  it  may  appear.  Again  and 
again  prayer  was  answered  in  the  supply  of  funds,  for  the 
outbreak  of  the  Japanese  war  with  China  had  greatly  en 
hanced  the  cost  of  material,  and  thus  exceeded  the  original 
estimates.  The  same  troubles  had  caused  a  scarcity  of 
workmen,  while  at  one  time  the  opposition  of  the  local 
gentry  became  a  formidable  hindrance.  The  new  Girls' 
School,  with  accommodation  for  eighty  boarders,  was, 
however,  completed  and  occupied  toward  the  close  of  1897, 
and  the  new  Boys'  School,  with  accommodation  for  over 
one  hundred  boarders,  was  ready  by  the  beginning  of  1898. 

In  the  year  1907,  largely  through  the  generosity  of  another 
member  of  the  Mission,  a  two-storied  extension  of  the  Girls' 
School  was  commenced,  which  was  ready  at  the  reopening 
of  the  Schools  in  1908,  a  brass  plate  being  fixed  in  the 
Gymnasium  : 

TO    COMMEMORATE   THE   GOODNESS    OF   GOD 

IN   GIVING   THIS   ENLARGED   ACCOMMODATION 

IN   ANSWER   TO    PRAYER. 

The  Preparatory  School  had  been  transferred  from 
Tungshin  in  1899,  first  to  the  old  Boys'  School,  and  then  to 


228  THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

a  large  hotel — its  present  premises — adjoining  the  other 
Schools,  which  came  into  the  market  in  a  providential  way. 
It  should  also  be  added  that  more  recently  an  additional 
Preparatory  School  has  been  opened  at  Ruling,  on  the 
Yangtze,  where  the  kind  donor  of  the  Boys'  School  at  Chefoo 
also  erected  the  necessary  premises. 

In  these  Schools  more  than  a  thousand  boys  and  girls 
have  either  received  or  are  receiving  their  education.  With 
out  giving  the  figures  for  the  Preparatory  School,  since 
most  of  the  scholars  who  enter  this  proceed  to  one  or  other 
of  the  Higher  Departments  later,  about  six  hundred  boys 
have  entered  the  Boys'  School  since  its  commencement,  in 
which  for  more  than  twenty  years  Mr.  Frank  McCarthy 
has  been  Headmaster,  ably  seconded  by  Mr.  Ebe  Murray 
and  others.  Though  the  records  of  the  Girls'  School,  prior 
to  1891,  are  not  complete,  more  than  four  hundred  have 
entered  here.  Of  the  eight  hundred  scholars,  approximately, 
who  have  gone  forth  into  life,  many  have  done  well,  while 
more  than  thirty  have  already  followed  in  their  parents' 
footsteps  and  devoted  themselves  to  missionary  service. 
It  is  interesting  to  notice  that  one  of  the  three  who  formed 
the  original  nucleus  of  the  School  in  1881,  Dr.  F.  H.  Judd, 
has  been  labouring  as  a  medical  missionary  in  connection 
with  the  Mission  for  nearly  twenty  years. 

The  best  testimony  to  the  efficiency  of  the  Schools' 
educational  work  is  the  record  of  its  examinations.  For 
several  years  the  College  of  Preceptors'  Examinations  were 
periodically  held  at  Chefoo,  but  in  1908  arrangements 
allowed  of  the  Oxford  Local  Examinations  being  held  in 
preference.  Since  that  date  295  scholars — 185  boys  and 
no  girls — have  entered  for  these  Examinations,  and  of  that 
number  all  have  passed,  with  the  exception  of  one  boy  and 
four  girls  ;  while  many  have  taken  honours,  and  some  have 
received  special  marks  of  distinction. 

Of  the  spiritual  results  it  is,  of  course,  less  easy  to  write. 
These  cannot  be  tabulated,  but  since  the  fear  of  the  Lord 
has  been,  in  the  estimate  of  every  teacher,  the  beginning 
of  wisdom,  the  spiritual  welfare  of  the  children  has  been 
ever  made  the  matter  of  supreme  importance.  That  the 


THE  CHEFOO  SCHOOLS  229 

labours  of  the  teachers  have  not  been  in  vain  in  this  respect 
has  been  proved  by  many  quiet  and  unsolicited  testimonies, 
while  at  occasional  meetings,  arranged  by  the  special  request 
of  the  scholars  themselves,  many  have  publicly  confessed 
their  faith  in  Christ. 


XXXV 

THE  OPENING  OF  HUNAN 

IT  is  now  time  to  turn  from  the  recital  of  events  at  home 
and  at  Chefoo  to  inland  China,  and  the  most  striking 
development  of  the  period  under  review  which  demands 
our  attention  was  connected  with  the  opening  up  of  Hunan. 
More  than  twenty  years  had  elapsed  since  the  first  C.I.M. 
pioneers  had  entered  the  province,  and  the  story  of  those 
early  years,  up  to  the  time  when  Adam  Dorward  settled  at 
Shasi  after  his  eviction  from  Hungkiang,  has  already  been 
told.1  More  than  ten  years  had  passed  since  those  events, 
and  of  these  years  we  must  first  speak. 

When  Messrs.  Dorward,  Dick,  and  James  settled  at 
Shasi,  for  work  across  the  north-west  border,  extensive 
journeys  were  taken  into  the  province,  during  which  journeys 
no  little  hardship  was  endured,  trying  both  to  soul  and  body, 
and  sometimes  imperilling  life.  One  of  these  journeys, 
extending  over  a  period  of  six  months,  is  especially  memor 
able  ;  for  Mr.  Dick,  after  spending  nearly  a  month  in  the 
city  of  Shenchowfu,  passed  on  and  succeeded,  in  May  1886, 
in  entering  Changsha,  the  capital.  This  was  the  first  time 
Changsha  had  ever  been  entered  by  a  missionary,  and  it 
was  considered  as  no  small  success  ;  but  Mr.  Dick's  triumph 
was  unfortunately  short-lived,  for  he  was  speedily  escorted 
out  of  the  city  by  the  astonished  and  annoyed  officials. 

During  this  period  of  opposition  the  workers  suffered 
riots  both  at  Tsinshih  and  Shihshow,  Mr.  James  in  the 
latter  place,  after  having  been  dragged  for  more  than  a  mile 

1  Continued  from  Chap.  XXIII.  p.  152. 
230 


THE  OPENING  OF  HUNAN  231 

towards  a  pit,  only  being  saved  from  a  violent  death  by  a 
timely  deluge  of  tropical  rain.  But  the  heaviest  blow  of  all 
came  when  Adam  Dorward  their  leader  died  from  dysentery 
on  October  2,  1888.  "  The  sad  removal  of  our  brother 
Dorward,"  wrote  Mr.  Taylor,  "  takes  away  from  Hunan 
one  of  the  truest  hearts  that  ever  breathed  in  sympathy 
with  that  people."  In  one  of  his  latest  letters,  penned 
during  his  last  visit  to  Changteh,  Dorward  wrote  : 

I  feel  as  if  I  would  be  willing  to  do  almost  anything  that  would  be 
honouring  to  God,  to  undergo  any  hardship,  if  I  could  get  a  permanent 
footing  in  this  city,  and  have  the  joy  of  seeing  men  and  women  turning 
to  God. 

The  day  of  entry  into  Changteh  was  not  to  be  till  long 
after  Dorward  had  passed  to  his  reward,  but  it  was  to  come, 
and  with  most  encouraging  results. 

After  Dorward's  death  the  work  in  Hunan  was  continued 
until,  in  1891,  the  outbreak  of  the  Yangtze  riots  and  the 
lack  of  suitable  men  compelled  a  temporary  retirement. 
Shihshow  and  Shasi  were,  however,  retained  as  out-stations 
in  the  hands  of  trusted  Chinese  helpers.  About  the  year 
1896  the  appointment  of  a  new  Governor  to  the  province 
changed  the  situation.  This  man,  so  far  as  he  was  able, 
reversed  the  tide  of  anti- foreign  feeling,  and  within  a 
few  years  rapid  strides  were  made  in  settled  work,  prov 
ing  how  much  under  God  depended  upon  the  official 
attitude. 

Towards  the  close  of  1895,  the  Rev.  George  Hunter,  M.A., 
a  Scotch  Presbyterian  minister,  who  had  joined  the  Mission 
in  1889,  and  had  had  Hunan  laid  upon  his  heart,  settled 
with  his  wife  and  younger  child  at  Ichang,  as  a  base  for 
work  across  the  border.  From  this  centre  Hunan  was 
visited  repeatedly ;  and  in  September  1897,  Evangelist  Yao, 
one  of  Dorward's  faithful  helpers,  returned  from  a  three 
months'  journey  with  the  deed  of  rental  of  a  house  which 
he  had  secured  outside  the  East  Gate  of  Changteh.  Here 
two  Chinese  helpers  were  speedily  stationed. 

Meanwhile,  Miss  Jacobsen,  who  had  been  labouring  for 
a  number  of  years  in  Shansi,  in  Pastor  Hsi's  district,  had 


232  THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

felt  the  call  of  Hunan,  and  accompanied  by  Evangelist  Ren, 
one  of  Pastor  Hsi's  helpers,  she  came  south,  and  in  the 
summer  of  1896  settled  in  a  small  village  in  Kiangsi,  not  far 
from  the  Hunan  border.  The  Chinese  Evangelist  soon 
entered  the  province,  and  rented  premises  in  a  village  not 
far  from  the  boundary,  but  ere  long,  through  the  kindness 
of  an  official  who  was  helped  to  break  off  opium,  Miss 
Jacobsen  obtained  entry  into  another  village,  Shengkwan- 
shih,  five  miles  farther  in.  Considerable  interest  attaches 
to  this  opening,  for  this  was  the  beginning  of  settled  work 
by  foreigners  in  the  province,  if  Dorward's  residence  at 
Hungkiang  during  1882-83  ^e  excepted. 

From  this  time  onward  the  work  in  Hunan  began  gradu 
ally  to  assume  a  more  hopeful  aspect,  and  the  year  1897 
may  be  regarded  as  the  year  when  a  permanent  entry  was 
secured,  the  temporary  retirement  during  the  crisis  of  1900 
being  common  to  the  work  in  most  provinces.  The  Christian 
and  Missionary  Alliance  secured  premises  in  Changteh  in 
November  1897  ;  the  American  Presbyterian  Mission  in 
Kwangtung  organized  a  small  Church  across  the  Hunan 
border, — the  first  regularly  organized  Christian  Church  in 
Hunan, — but  without  a  resident  missionary  ;  the  London 
Missionary  Society  opened  three  stations  with  resident 
Chinese  helpers,  and  the  Cumberland  Presbyterian  Mission 
started  work  in  Changteh  about  the  same  time.  During 
the  following  year,  1898,  rapid  developments  took  place. 
Changteh  was  occupied  by  Mr.  Clinton,  who  laboured  there 
with  conspicuous  success  and  devotion  for  the  next  ten 
years  until  his  early  and  lamented  death,  some  sixty  baptized 
converts  being  gathered  in  during  this  period.  Shenchowfu 
and  Chalingchow  were  opened  the  same  year,  but  though 
the  work  was  thus  prospered,  much  determined  opposition 
was  still  to  be  met  with,  and  a  firm  resolution  was  needed 
both  in  missionary  and  Chinese  helper.  What  the  type 
of  these  Chinese  helpers  was  may  be  gathered  from  the 
following  reply  of  one  whom  Mr.  Hunter  approached  with 
a  view  to  making  an  itinerant  journey. 

"  If  you  are  just  going  down  to  Hunan/'  he  said,  "  to  look  round 
and  come  back  again,  I  would  rather  be  excused,  but  if  you  mean 


THE  OPENING  OF  HUNAN  233 

business,  and  if  you  are  going  to  preach  there  and  are  ready  to  endure 
hardness,  I  will  go  with  you.     It  is  the  very  thing  I  want." 

Such  a  man  was  Mr.  Li  who,  with  Dr.  Keller,  reached 
Chalingchow  in  October  1898.  Favoured  by  the  officials, 
they  quietly  settled  in,  though  the  students  freely  spoke  of 
killing  the  landlord  and  looting  the  premises.  In  the  spring 
of  1899  the  mob  at  length  took  matters  into  their  own  hands, 
and  looted  both  the  landlord's  and  the  Mission's  premises. 
By  the  express  order  of  the  Prefect,  the  District  Magistrate 
offered  compensation  to  Dr.  Keller,  but  the  Doctor  replied 
saying  that  if  he  would  indemnify  the  landlord  in  full,  he 
would  give  the  official  a  written  release  from  all  claims  from 
the  foreigner.  To  this  the  official  willingly  agreed,  and  the 
compact  then  made  was  faithfully  fulfilled.  This  action 
was  blessed  of  God  to  the  breaking  down  of  much  prejudice, 
and  soon  a  warm  friendship  sprang  up  between  the  Doctor 
and  the  official's  eldest  son.  Some  months  later  the  Doctor 
was  the  means  of  saving  the  life  of  this  man's  wife,  when  all 
the  Chinese  midwives  had  retired  in  despair,  and  the  deep 
gratitude  evoked  by  this  assistance  intensified  the  friendship 
of  the  official's  son,  who  subsequently  protected  Dr.  Keller 
when  the  Boxer  outbreak  resulted  in  widespread  riots  and 
disorder  throughout  the  province.1 

During  the  days  of  trouble  which  accompanied  the  Boxer 
riots  several  Roman  Catholic  missionaries  in  Hunan  were 
killed,  but  in  the  good  providence  of  God  all  Protestant 
workers  in  the  province  were  enabled  safely  to  withdraw, 
rejoicing  that  though  they  were  temporarily  hindered  from 
continuing  their  work,  three  stations  had  been  opened  in 
hostile  Hunan,  and  some  thirty  converts  had  been  gathered 
out  as  the  nucleus  of  the  future  Church.  The  year  1900, 
however,  brought  with  it  a  heavy  loss  to  the  work  in  this 
province,  through  the  somewhat  sudden  death  of  Mr.  George 
Hunter,  whose  gifts  and  graces  had  marked  him  out  as  one 

1  Years  afterward  this  official  resigned  his  post  and  removed  to  the 
capital  to  have  Dr.  Keller  attend  him  in  his  final  illness.  His  grandson, 
Han  En-show,  entered  the  C.I.M.  School  and  while  there  gave  his  heart  to 
the  Lord.  During  1913  he  completed  his  course  of  study  in  Yale  College — 
in  China,  and  then  entered  a  theological  seminary  to  prepare  himself  to 
become  a  preacher  of  the  Gospel. 


234  THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

from  whom  service  of  more  than  ordinary  value  had  been 
hoped  for. 

Barely  six  months  had  elapsed  from  the  date  of  Dr. 
Keller's  escape  from  Chalingchow,  ere  the  Hunan  workers 
were  on  their  way  back  to  the  province  again.  Changsha, 
the  capital,  and  naturally  the  key  to  the  province,  was  still 
closed,  though  Mr.  B.  Alexander  of  the  Christian  and  Mis 
sionary  Alliance  had,  by  living  on  a  boat  outside  the  West 
Gate,  and  by  daily  selling  Gospels  and  tracts  within  the  city, 
done  much  to  prepare  the  way  for  the  opening  of  this  centre. 
On  June  8,  1901,  Dr.  Keller,  still  accompanied  by  Evangelist 
Li,  reached  Changsha,  and  two  days  later  was  successful 
in  renting  a  pleasant  house  in  a  good  street  inside  the  walls. 
These  premises  were  immediately  occupied,  and  on  the 
fourth  morning  after  arrival  daily  evangelistic  services  were 
begun.  During  the  first  month  the  successful  treatment 
of  two  soldiers,  who  had  been  injured  by  the  premature 
discharge  of  cannon  on  the  city  wall,  won  the  confidence 
and  friendship  of  the  officials  and  soldiers.  Within  a 
month  Mr.  WT.  E.  Hampson  came  to  join  Dr.  Keller,  gradually 
other  workers  followed,  and  soon  a  flourishing  work  sprang 
up  in  this  formerly  anti-foreign  centre,  the  Governor  of 
the  province  himself  subsequently  giving  a  sum  of  about 
£300  for  the  purchase  of  a  site  for  the  Mission  hospital. 

At  Changteh,  barely  a  month  later  than  Dr.  Keller's 
entry  into  Changsha,  new  premises  were  bought  inside  the 
city  where,  as  already  stated,  the  work  has  been  prospered. 
At  Shenchowfu,  however,  where  Messrs.  Bruce  and  Lowis 
established  themselves  and  were  engaged  in  faithful  and 
steady  work,  there  was  an  outbreak  of  cholera  in  the  summer 
of  1902,  and  the  people  in  their  ignorance  being  roused  to 
a  sudden  fury  by  the  report  that  foreigners  had  poisoned 
the  famous  spring,  which  was  the  city's  main  water  supply, 
murdered  those  whose  only  ambition  was  to  be  their  best 
friends. 

In  the  south  of  the  province,  Mr.  Kampmann,  from 
Germany,  opened  the  city  of  Packing  in  July  1902  as  a 
centre  for  other  workers  coming  from  Liebenzell.  So 
rapidly  did  this  work  under  the  care  of  our  German  brethren 


THE  OPENING  OF  HUNAN  235 

grow,  that  in  1906  this  branch  was  reorganized  under  the 
name  of  the  Liebenzell  Mission,  associated  with  the  China 
Inland  Mission.  From  Packing  their  work  rapidly  developed 
to  Yuanchow,  then  to  Siangtan  and  Changsha,  and  when 
in  1910  nearly  all  the  Mission  buildings  in  Changsha  were 
destroyed  by  riot,  it  was  decided,  when  the  time  for  rebuilding 
came  that  the  work  in  this  centre  should  be  handed  over 
entirely  to  the  Liebenzell  Mission.  The  result  is  that  to-day, 
apart  from  the  two  northern  stations  of  Changteh  and 
Nanchowting,  all  the  work  connected  with  the  C.I.M.  in 
Hunan  is  in  the  hands  of  the  Liebenzell  associates. 

No  survey  of  the  work  in  this  province  would  be  complete 
without  a  reference  to  the  Bible  Conferences  and  the  special 
campaigns  organized  by  Dr.  Keller,  in  co-operation  with 
members  of  other  Missions,  for  work  among  the  thousands 
of  pilgrims  who  every  autumn  visit  the  temples  and  shrines 
on  the  sacred  mountain  of  Nanyoh.  To  take  one  year  as 
an  illustration,  we  find  that  during  1911,  83  men,  of  whom 
2  were  pastors,  30  evangelists,  24  colporteurs,  16  student- 
evangelists,  6  school  teachers,  and  5  lay  workers,  representing 
in  all  44  Churches  in  10  different  Missions,  and  coming  from 
33  cities  and  towns  in  22  counties  of  Hunan,  came  together 
for  a  month  in  the  autumn  to  spend  the  morning  of  each 
day  in  united  Bible  study  and  the  afternoon  and  even 
ing  in  a  special  mission  to  these  pilgrim-seekers  after  truth 
and  blessing.  On  that  occasion  nearly  70,000  Scriptures 
were  distributed,  the  workers  frequently  rising  as  early  as 
three  o'clock  in  the  morning  to  catch  the  travellers  on  the 
road.  In  addition  to  this  autumn  work  there  are  two  bands 
of  colporteurs,  with  twelve  workers  and  a  leader  in  each  band, 
regularly  engaged  throughout  the  year  in  a  house-to-house 
visitation,  with  a  view  to  reaching,  so  far  as  is  possible, 
every  creature  with  the  good  news  of  salvation  through 
Christ.  Already  several  tens  of  thousands  of  homes  have 
been  visited  where  the  Gospel  had  never  before  been  preached. 
By  God's  blessing  there  has  been  a  large  number  of  con 
versions,  many  families  have  given  up  their  idols,  and 
several  new  Churches  have  been  formed. 

It  is  impossible  to-day  to  look  back  upon  the  progress 


236  THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

of  events  in  Hunan  without  realising  how  remarkable  have 
been  God's  answers  to  prayer  in  what  has  been  the  stronghold 
of  opposition  in  China.  Hunan  was  for  long  a  kind  of 
spiritual  Edom — the  fenced  city — entrance  into  which  was 
constantly  sought  by  strong  cryings  and  tears,  and  though 
the  conflict  has  been  long  and  arduous,  the  labour  has  not 
been  in  vain  in  the  Lord. 

When  Mr.  Taylor  visited  and  died  in  the  capital  in  1905, 
although  thirty  years  had  passed  since  the  first  C.I.M. 
pioneers  had  entered  the  province,  settled  work  had  only 
recently  begun  ;  yet  there  was  a  little  Church  of  some 
fifty  members  in  that  city  to  give  him  welcome,  not  to  speak 
of  the  converts  connected  with  other  Societies.  And  what 
a  welcome  that  must  have  been,  after  the  many  years  of 
prayer  and  labour  for  entry  into  this,  the  last  province 
opened  to  the  Gospel !  But  to-day,  only  ten  years  later, 
the  C.I.M.  alone  can  rejoice  in  the  possession  of  27  stations 
and  out-stations,  and  in  the  fact  that  about  one  thousand 
persons  have  confessed  their  faith  in  Christ  by  baptism. 


XXXVI 
AMONG  THE  TRIBES1 

To  the  west  of  Hunan  lie  the  two  provinces  of  Kweichow 
and  Yunnan,  which  no  traveller  can  visit  without  being 
struck  with  the  large  place  the  non-Chinese  races  hold  in 
the  population  of  these  regions.  It  was  natural,  therefore, 
that  the  early  pioneers  should,  from  the  first,  have  had  their 
interest  awakened  for  these  people,  though  the  pressing 
claims  of  the  Chinese,  and  the  inaccessibility  of  the  tribes 
prevented  work  among  them  for  many  years.  Yet,  although 
it  was  not  until  the  Mission  had  entered  upon  its  fourth 
decade  that  definite  efforts  were  made  to  reach  and  evangelize 
these  non-Chinese  races,  Mr.  J.  F.  Broumtom,  the  first 
Protestant  missionary  to  settle  in  Kweichow,  baptized  the 
first  three  converts  from  among  the  Miao  some  time  before 
the  year  1884.  One  of  these  was  P'an  Sheo-shan,  of  whom 
we  shall  hear  more  immediately. 

In  the  year  1895,  the  Rev.  Samuel  Clarke,  who  was  in 
charge  of  the  station  at  Kweiyang,  was  asked  to  commence 
work  among  the  tribes,  to  learn  their  languages  and  reduce 
the  same  to  writing.  P'an  Sheo-shan,  the  Black-Miao 
convert  already  mentioned,  was  engaged  as  teacher,  and  by 
July  1896  a  Primer  for  students  of  the  Black-Miao  language 
had  been  prepared  and  a  commencement  made  with  a 
dictionary,  in  addition  to  other  smaller  treatises.  During 
the  same  month  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Webb,  who  had  been  located 
in  the  province  for  work  among  these  people,  set  out  for  the 

1  Free  use  has  been  made  in  this  Chapter  and  Chapter  XLII.  of   the 
Rev.  Samuel  R.  Clarke's  book,  Among  the  Tribes  of  South-West  China. 

237 


238  THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

Black-Miao  district  east  of  the  capital,  which  district  Mr. 
Webb  had  visited  before.  Accompanied  by  the  Evangelist 
P'an  and  a  Black-Miao  servant,  these  pioneers  travelled 
from  place  to  place  for  more  than  a  month,  living  in  wretched 
inns  and  houses.  At  length  some  premises  were  rented, 
but  what  premises  ! — half  a  house  in  the  middle  of  a  Miao 
village,  which  half  house  was  merely  a  lofty  barn-like  room, 
all  open  on  one  side  to  the  wind.  Two  months  elapsed  ere 
this  rude  dwelling-place  was  floored,  the  open  spaces  panelled, 
and  windows  put  in.  Some  months  later  the  other  half 
of  the  house  was  secured  and  made  fit  for  habitation.  Such 
experiences  are,  of  course,  the  common  lot  of  pioneers, 
though  none  the  less  easy  to  bear  for  all  that.  But  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Webb  were  grateful  for  any  sort  of  settlement  so  long 
as  the  work  began. 

There  were,  however,  difficulties  greater  than  those 
connected  with  the  securing  of  shelter,  for  though  the  Miao 
seemed  either  friendly,  or  at  the  worst  indifferent,  the 
Chinese  soon  became  suspicious  and  hostile.  Serious  efforts 
were  soon  made  to  compel  the  foreigners  to  retire.  The 
Chinese  headman  of  Panghai,  accompanied  by  a  band  of 
local  robbers  and  ruffians  to  the  number  of  150,  employed 
every  art  of  intimidation  to  secure  their  end.  Temporarily, 
Mrs.  Webb  was  compelled  to  withdraw,  while  Mr.  Samuel 
Clarke,  with  his  larger  experience,  came  to  support  Mr.  Webb, 
with  the  result  that  patience,  combined  with  a  fearless 
demeanour,  eventually  won  the  day. 

When  this  opposition  on  the  part  of  the  Chinese  had  been 
overcome,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Webb,  by  leaving  their  house  open 
to  their  neighbours  all  the  day  long,  soon  gained  the  con 
fidence  of  the  somewhat  timid  Miao.  Some  elementary 
medical  work  also  produced  astonishing  results,  and  the 
sick  and  needy  came  from  places  two  or  three  days  distant 
for  treatment.  During  all  this  time  Evangelist  P'an  had 
been  busy  preaching  the  Gospel  to  his  own  people  both  in 
Panghai  and  in  the  surrounding  villages  and  neighbouring 
markets.  Thus  was  Panghai  opened  for  work  among  these 
much-neglected  and  despised  tribes. 

Unfortunately,  Mrs.  Webb  soon  became  prostrate  with 


AMONG  THE  TRIBES  239 

ague  and  malarial  fever,  so  that  she  and  her  husband  were 
compelled  to  withdraw  just  as  they  were  becoming  ac 
quainted  with  the  people  and  their  language.  The  work  was, 
however,  continued  by  Mr.  H.  E.  Bolton  and  Evangelist 
P'an,  a  school  being  opened  for  boys.  Unhappily,  about  this 
time  a  dispute  arose  between  the  Chinese  of  Panghai  and  the 
Miao  as  to  the  site  of  the  local  market,  and  as  seven-eighths 
of  the  people  were  Miao,  they  easily  carried  the  day,  to  the 
financial  loss  of  their  opponents.  The  issue  was  that  the 
Chinese  retaliated  and  burned  the  Miao  booths,  and  not  long 
afterwards  the  disaffected  Miao  seized  and  looted  Panghai, 
the  whole  village,  which  contained  some  two  or  three 
hundred  houses,  being  either  purposely  or  accidentally 
burnt  to  the  ground. 

Early  in  October  1898  Mr.  Bolton  returned  to  the  capital 
for  a  needed  change,  while  Mr.  W.  S.  Fleming  undertook 
to  hold  the  fort  at  Panghai  during  his  absence.  This 
brought  Mr.  Fleming  right  into  the  district  at  this  time 
of  disaffection,  and  as  the  coup  d'etat  at  Peking  had  but 
recently  taken  place,  when  the  Emperor  Kwang  Hsu,  the 
would-be  reformer,  was  seized  and  imprisoned  by  the 
Empress  Dowager,  the  anti-foreign  spirit  began  more  freely 
to  assert  itself  throughout  the  country. 

With  Panghai  burned,  and  with  a  company  of  soldiers, 
more  threatening  than  the  robbers  themselves,  quartered 
in  the  ruined  village,  Mr.  Fleming's  position  was  peculiarly 
trying,  and  he  decided  to  return  to  Kweiyang.  Accompanied 
by  Evangelist  P'an  and  a  school  teacher  of  the  same  name, 
Mr.  Fleming  set  out  for  the  capital  on  November  4,  1898. 
Only  fifteen  miles  had  been  traversed  when  the  little  company 
was  attacked  from  behind,  the  attack  being  pre-arranged. 
Evangelist  P'an,  who  was  in  the  rear,  was  first  killed,  and 
then  Mr.  Fleming,  who  had  dismounted  from  his  mule  to 
assist  his  faithful  helper,  was  done  to  death  with  many 
sword  wounds.  The  coolie  and  school  teacher  fled,  and 
managed  to  escape  to  carry  the  sad  intelligence  to  the 
capital.  Thus  died  the  first  C.I.M.  martyr,  and  P'an 
Sheo-shan  the  first  of  many  converts  from  among  the  tribes 
of  south-west  China.  How  fruitful  the  work  among  these 


240  THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

tribes  was  subsequently  to  be,  little  did  those  two  martyrs 
for  the  Gospel  know,  though  the  great  ingathering  was  not 
to  be  made  in  this  immediate  neighbourhood  but  farther 
west,  where  work  among  other  of  the  tribes  had  been  com 
menced  about  the  same  time. 

Upon  receipt  of  the  sad  news,  Messrs.  Windsor  and  Adam 
set  out  for  the  scene  of  the  tragedy,  recovered  the  bodies, 
and  had  them  conveyed  to  Panghai,  where  they  found  the 
murderers  and  soldiers  had  looted  the  Mission  premises. 
In  the  following  February,  Mr.  Adam  bought  a  piece  of 
land  in  Panghai  where  subsequently  more  suitable  buildings 
were  erected,  though  the  failure  of  Mr.  Bolton's  health, 
and  the  outbreak  of  the  Boxer  persecutions  in  1900,  pre 
vented  regular  work  being  re-established  for  some  time. 
During  this  interval,  however,  the  station  was  visited  from 
time  to  time  by  Messrs.  Samuel  Clarke  and  Curtis  Waters, 
though,  sad  to  relate,  many  of  the  Miao  suffered  terrible 
persecutions,  some  32  in  all  being  put  to  death,  many  with 
much  cruelty  under  false  charges  of  rebellion,  whereas 
their  real  offence  was  sympathy  with  the  missionary  and 
his  religion. 

In  June  1904,  Mr.  Charles  Chenery,  who  was  eminently 
fitted  for  the  work,  settled  at  this  station,  and  soon  won 
the  respect  of  the  converts  and  neighbouring  Chinese  alike. 
But  his  time  of  ministry  was  unfortunately  short,  for  on 
April  18,  1905,  ere  he  had  been  there  a  year,  he  was  accident 
ally  drowned  when  travelling  from  Kaili  to  Panghai  by  boat, 
his  body,  when  recovered,  being  buried  beside  those  of  Mr. 
Fleming  and  Evangelist  P'an  ;  these  three  graves  in  that 
lonely  country  station  still  silently  witnessing  to  the  con 
straining  love  of  Christ.  Mr.  R.  Williams,  who  succeeded 
Mr.  Chenery,  only  held  on  for  two  years,  for  failure  of  health 
compelled  his  removal  to  another  station,  and  the  work 
then  passed  to  the  care  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  Powell. 

The  story  of  this  station,  where  the  first  C.I.M.  martyrs 
fell,  has  been  told  somewhat  fully  and  out  of  proportion  to 
the  many  other  centres  where  the  work  deserves  more 
attention  than  space  will  allow.  While,  however,  it  is  a 
necessary  part  of  the  record  of  work  among  the  tribes,  it 


AMONG  THE  TRIBES  241 

also  affords  a  valuable  illustration  of  some  of  the  difficulties 
incidental  to  new  work,  not  only  among  the  tribes,  but  in 
most  parts  of  China,  so  that  it  may  be  looked  upon  as 
reflecting  the  hardships  and  discouragements  which  have 
had  to  be  encountered  in  many  another  centre. 

For  some  reason  the  Black  Miao  of  Panghai  have  not  as 
readily  responded  to  the  Gospel  as  the  other  tribes  have 
done.  As  a  people  they  are  especially  prone  to  rebellion, 
and  have  in  consequence  been  much  harried  by  the  Chinese 
soldiers,  who  have  destroyed  their  villages  from  time  to 
time.  Further,  they  have  been  intimidated  by  what  the 
early  inquirers  suffered,  and  have  probably  been  deterred 
by  the  succession  of  trials  and  sorrows  which  have  beset 
the  work.  In  another  chapter  x  it  will  be  our  joy  to  tell 
the  story  of  blessing  which  has  abounded  among  the  tribes 
to  the  west  of  the  province  and  in  the  neighbouring  province 
of  Yunnan  ;  and  the  marked  contrast  between  those  centres 
and  this  emphasizes  the  need  for  prayer  that  this  station, 
consecrated  by  the  martyrs'  blood,  instead  of  being  "  a 
valley  of  weeping  "  may  become  "  a  place  of  springs." 

1  See  Chap.  XLII.  p.  274. 


XXXVII 
THE  BOXER  CRISIS 

DURING  the  closing  months  of  1897,  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor 
published  a  short  statement  in  China  s  Millions,  saying 
that  it  had  been  impressed  upon  him  that  God  was  calling 
the  Mission  to  prepare  for  a  fresh  departure  to  hasten  the 
evangelization  of  China.  The  munificent  legacy  left  by 
Mr.  J.  T.  Morton  about  this  time,  payable  in  yearly  instal 
ments  over  a  period  of  ten  or  more  years,1  was  taken  as  a 
confirmation  of  this  proposal.  No  immediate  appeal  for 
workers  was  made,  as  it  was  felt  that  special  preparations 
at  first  should  be  made  on  the  field,  the  most  important 
preparation  of  all  being  a  spiritual  one. 

Knowing  how  much  "  Winter  Missions  "  in  India  had 
been  blessed,  Mr.  Taylor  was  desirous  of  some  similar  efforts 
being  made  in  China,  and  to  secure  this  he  approached 
both  the  Keswick  Committee  and  the  Secretaries  of  other 
Missionary  Societies.  There  was  one  fear,  however,  which 
much  exercised  his  mind  at  this  time,  about  which  he  asked 
special  and  definite  prayer. 

"  If  the  Spirit  of  God  worked  mightily/'  he  wrote,  "  we  may  be 
quite  sure  that  the  spirit  of  evil  will  also  be  active.  When  the  Appeal 
for  one  thousand  new  workers  went  forth  from  the  Missionary  Con 
ference  of  1890,  the  Enemy  at  once  began  a  counter-mo ve,  and  riots 
and  massacres  have  from  time  to  time  followed  as  never  before.  Pray 
that  God  will  prevent  the  breaking  up  of  the  Empire,  and  not  allow 
mission  work  here  to  be  hindered  as  it  has  been  in  Tahiti,  Madagascar, 
parts  of  Africa,  and  elsewhere." 

1  From  this  source  the  C.I.M.  received  more  than  £140,000  over  a 
period  of  about  fifteen  years. 

242 


THE  BOXER  CRISIS  243 

That  this  fear  was  not  imaginary,  subsequent  events  all 
too  terribly  proved.  Several  months  after  these  words  had 
been  penned,  definite  arrangements  were  made  for  the 
commencement  of  a  forward  movement  in  Kiangsi.  The 
province,  with  certain  areas  excepted,  was  divided  into  five 
districts,  Jaochow  being  opened  by  Dr.  Fred  Judd  as  a 
centre  for  the  east,  and  Mr.  Home  accepted  the  leadership 
of  a  band  of  workers,  with  Kanchow  as  a  centre  in  the  south. 
But  just  as  the  new  workers,  who  had  specially  offered  for 
this  new  effort,  were  becoming  qualified  for  their  ministry, 
the  Boxer  outbreak  disorganized  the  work  so  seriously  that 
the  scheme  was  never  carried  through  as  originally  intended. 
Several  of  the  workers — Messrs.  Ernest  Taylor,  C.  H.  Judd, 
junior,  and  P.  V.  Ambler  volunteered  for  the  storm-swept 
province  of  Shansi,  where  113  missionaries  with  46  of  their 
children  had  been  massacred.  It  is  of  this  tragic  counter- 
move  of  riot  and  massacre,  feared  by  Mr.  Taylor,  that  we 
must  now  speak. 

The  Boxer  madness  of  1900  was  the  climax  of  China's 
anti-foreign  policy,  and  was  not  wholly  an  unnatural  issue 
to  a  series  of  events  which  focussed  themselves  upon  this 
period  of  China's  history.  The  perennial  antipathy  of  the 
Chinese  to  foreigners  had  been  increasingly  aroused  by 
foreign  aggression,  emphasized  by  the  building  of  railways, 
the  opening  of  mines,  erection  of  factories,  and  other  evi 
dences  of  foreign  innovation.  These  things  alone  had 
begun  seriously  to  agitate  the  minds  of  the  people.  Added 
to  this  was  the  actual  seizure  of  Chinese  territory  by  Germany 
at  Kiaochow  in  1897,  by  Russia  at  Port  Arthur  in  1898, 
and  by  England  and  France  at  Weihaiwei  and  Kwang- 
chow-wan  respectively,  though  the  diplomatic  term  of 
"  lease  "  was  used  in  each  case.  Macao,  Hongkong,  For 
mosa,  and  Korea  had  been  lost  before,  and  with  the  almost 
simultaneous  alienation  of  these  invaluable  harbours  to 
Foreign  Powers,  there  was  small  wonder  that  the  Chinese 
people  and  rulers  became  exasperated. 

Nor  were  these  the  only  causes  of  offence.  In  March 
1899,  France  had  demanded  and  obtained  official  rank  for 
each  order  of  the  Roman  Catholic  hierarchy.  Bishops 


244  THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

obtained  the  rank  of  Viceroys,  Vicar-Generals  and  Arch 
deacons  the  rank  of  Provincial  Treasurers,  and  though  the 
Protestant  Missions  declined  such  "  honours,"  the  conces 
sions  made  had  seriously  offended  China's  sense  of  amour 
propre.  Synchronizing  with  these  causes  of  provocation 
from  without,  came  reaction  against  reform  within.  For 
years  the  Emperor  had  been  under  the  influence  of  an 
aggressive  Reform  Party,  headed  by  K'ang  Yii-wei,  with 
the  result  that  edicts  of  the  most  revolutionary  nature 
followed  one  another  with  bewildering  rapidity.  The 
innovations  proposed  "  fairly  took  away  the  breath  of  the 
whole  Empire,"  and  awakened  the  bitterest  hostility  of  the 
literati,  whose  interests  were  more  or  less  dependent  upon 
a  continuance  of  the  old  order.  When  in  September  1898 
the  Emperor  degraded  and  dismissed  two  Presidents  and 
four  Vice-Presidents  of  one  of  the  time-honoured  Boards  of 
Government,  and  ejected  two  Ministers  from  the  Chinese 
Foreign  Office,  one  of  whom  was  the  distinguished  statesman 
Li  Hung-chang,  a  climax  was  reached.  The  Empress- 
Dowager,  aunt  of  the  Emperor  and  mother  of  his  prede 
cessor  and  de  facto  Ruler  of  China  for  more  than  half  a 
century,  was  memorialized  by  the  offended  officials  to 
intervene  and  save  the  country.  This  she  was  only  too 
ready  to  attempt,  and  when  H.  E.  Yuan  Shih-kai,  the 
present  President,  divulged  the  Emperor's  plot  to  seize  the 
person  of  the  Empress-Dowager,  the  Emperor  was  compelled 
to  sign  a  decree  abdicating  the  Throne  and  handing  over 
the  reins  of  government  to  his  masterful  aunt. 

Thenceforth  followed  a  series  of  denunciatory  edicts, 
marked  with  much  bitterness  and  hate.  In  one  of  these, 
dated  November  1899,  the  Empress-Dowager  declared  : 

Our  Empire  is  now  labouring  under  great  difficulties,  which  are 
becoming  daily  more  serious.  The  various  Powers  cast  upon  us  looks 
of  tiger-like  ferocity,  hustling  each  other  in  their  endeavours  to  be  the 
first  to  seize  upon  our  innermost  territory.  They  think  that  China, 
having  neither  money  nor  troops,  would  never  venture  to  go  to  war 
with  them.  They  fail  to  understand,  however,  that  there  are  certain 
things  to  which  this  Empire  can  never  consent,  and  that  if  hardly 
pressed  upon,  we  have  no  alternative  but  to  rely  upon  the  justice  of  our 
cause.  ...  It  behoves,  therefore,  all  our  Viceroys,  Governors,  and 


THE  BOXER  CRISIS  245 

Commanders-in-chief  throughout  the  whole  Empire,  to  unite  forces 
and  act  together  without  distinction  or  particularising  of  jurisdiction., 
so  as  to  present  a  combined  front  to  the  enemy,  exhorting  and  en 
couraging  their  officers  and  soldiers  in  person  to  fight  for  the  preserva 
tion  of  their  homes  and  native  soil  from  the  encroaching  footsteps 
of  the  foreign  aggressor.  Never  should  the  word  Peace  fall  from  the 
mouths  of  our  high  officials,  nor  should  they  even  allow  it  to  rest  for 
a  moment  within  their  breasts. 

With  such  a  woman  at  the  head  of  affairs  and  such 
edicts  sent  broadcast  throughout  the  land,  the  anti-foreign 
feeling  soon  ran  high ;  and  when  the  rains  failed  and  the 
prospects  of  famine  stared  men  in  the  face,  it  was  felt  that 
Heaven  was  giving  proof  of  displeasure  at  China's  tolerance 
of  the  foreigner.  Thus  were  the  fiercest  passions  of  the 
ignorant  multitude  soon  set  loose.  The  patriotic  volunteers, 
or  Boxers,  a  modern  form  of  some  older  secret  organization, 
rapidly  sprang  into  prominence,  with  the  Empress  Dowager 
as  their  chief  Patroness.  Boxer  placards  appeared  through 
out  the  country,  promising  exemption  from  misfortune  and 
evils  if  adherents  were  gained,  and  giving  the  distressed 
people  assurances  of  fruitful  showers  when  the  hated 
barbarian  had  been  driven  from  their  shores. 

That  any  missionaries  resident  in  inland  China  escaped 
at  all  is  a  fine  testimony  to  the  wisdom  and  humanity  of  not 
a  few  of  China's  best  statesmen  who  dared  to  disobey. 
H.  E.  Li  Hung-chang,  aware  of  the  perilous  trend  of  events, 
vainly  memorialized  the  Empress-Dowager  in  the  hope  of 
turning  her  from  her  madness.  "  I  have  exhausted  every 
reasonable  resource  of  speech  and  writing,"  he  recorded  in 
his  diary,  "  but  I  fear  it  is  unavailing."  Upon  one  of  his 
interviews,  when  he  urged  her  to  crush  the  Boxers,  he 
records  :  "  In  an  instant  she  was  alive  with  wrath  and  angry 
words,  and  I  immediately  withdrew."  Fortunately,  other 
powerful  officials  adopted  the  same  policy  as  Li  Hung-chang. 
The  Viceroys  Chang  Chih-tung  and  Liu  Kuen-yi  united  to 
preserve  peace  and  order  on  the  Yangtze,  and  secured  the 
adhesion  of  other  officials,  so  that  they  guaranteed  protection 
to  merchants,  missionaries,  and  Chinese  Christians  on  the 
upper  and  lower  reaches  of  that  great  river.  H.  E.  Tuan 
Fang,  Governor  of  Shensi,  at  the  risk  of  his  own  life,  for  the 


246  THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

Empress-Dowager  fled  to  his  capital,  stood  for  peace  in  the 
north-west,  and  was  the  means  of  saving  the  lives  of  nearly 
a  hundred  missionaries.  H.  E.  Yuan  Shih-kai,  Governor 
of  Shantung,  though  he  had  already  divulged  the  Emperor's 
plot  to  seize  the  Empress-Dowager,  suppressed  the  Boxers 
in  his  province,  and  H.  E.  Yung  Lu  refused  to  allow  the 
heavy  artillery  to  be  used  against  the  Legations  in  Peking. 
The  concerted  action  of  such  men,  in  defiance  of  specific 
orders  to  the  contrary,  was  under  God  the  reason  why  so 
large  a  proportion  of  the  missionaries  resident  in  inland 
China  were  enabled  to  escape. 

While  the  power  of  the  officials  to  protect  was  illustrated 
by  the  attitude  of  those  named  above,  the  power  of  the 
officials  to  destroy  was  sadly  proved  by  the  conduct  of  the 
bitterly  anti-foreign  Manchu  Governor  Yii  Hsien,  of  whom 
Li  Hung-chang  wrote  :  "  I  well  know  personally  the  ignorant 
and  fire-eating  Yii,  and  I  would  not  let  him  assist  in  the 
carrying  of  my  chair."  The  actual  loss  of  life  was  limited 
to  the  four  provinces  of  Shansi,  Chihli,  Chekiang  and 
Shantung,  yet  out  of  188  foreigners  who  were  killed — 135 
missionaries  and  53  of  their  children — 159  were  stationed 
in  the  province  of  Shansi,  or  across  the  Mongolian  border. 
How  implacable  and  bitter  was  China's  wrath  when  led  by 
anti-foreign  leaders  is  shown  by  these  figures,  and  by  the 
fact  that  in  Peking  even  the  priceless  Hanlin  Library  was 
fired  with  the  hope  of  burning  down  the  contiguous  Legation 
buildings.  Yet  terrible  and  heartrending  as  were  the 
sufferings  and  losses  of  those  days,  God  has  in  a  wondrous 
way  made  the  wrath  of  man  to  praise  Him,  and  from  the 
sorrows  of  that  period  may  be  dated  the  more  rapid  progress 
of  China's  evangelization. 


REDUCED  FACSIMILE  OF  MARTYRS'  MEMORIAL  TABLET  ERECTED,  BY  THE  PRIVATE 
SUBSCRIPTIONS  OF  FELLOW- WORKERS,  IN  THE  PRAYER-MEETING  HALLS  OF  THE 
MISSION  IN  SHANGHAI  AND  LONDON. 

To  face  page  247. 


XXXVIII 

PARTAKERS  OF  THE  AFFLICTIONS  OF  THE 
GOSPEL 

WHEN  the  storm  of  persecution  broke  over  China,  the 
C.I.M.  had  nearly  seven  hundred  missionaries  actually  in 
the  field,  the  majority  of  whom  were  resident  at  inland 
stations.  In  a  crisis  which  developed  so  rapidly,  for  even 
the  Foreign  Legations  of  Peking  were  for  long  in  dire  peril, 
it  was  inevitable  for  lonely  workers  resident  far  up-country 
to  be  speedily  involved  in  positions  of  great  difficulty  and 
distress.  Such  risks  are  inseparable  from  pioneer  missionary 
work,  and  had  been  gladly  and  willingly  faced  by  all  who 
had  gone  forth.  Therefore,  without  turning  aside  to 
discuss  the  problems  of  a  missionary's  duty — since  sometimes 
it  may  be  right  for  him  to  stay  and  die  ;  sometimes,  if  the 
movement  is  anti-foreign,  best  for  him  to  withdraw — we 
purpose  very  briefly  to  record  the  trials  of  the  Mission  at 
this  unparalleled  period  of  persecution  in  modern  Missions. 
Mr.  Hudson  Taylor,  who  recently  had  had  a  slight  stroke, 
was  absent  from  China  at  the  time,  so  that  the  heavy  burden 
of  responsibility  fell  upon  the  shoulders  of  Mr.  Stevenson, 
the  Deputy-Director  in  China,  assisted  at  Mr.  Taylor's 
request  by  Mr.  D.  E.  Hoste  as  well  as  by  other  members  of 
the  China  Council,  who  had  assembled  in  Shanghai  early  in 
July,  little  conscious  of  the  terrible  tragedies  even  then 
being  enacted  up-country.  On  the  other  hand,  many  of 
the  workers  inland  were  in  ignorance  of  the  real  nature  of 
the  troubles,  and  were  cut  off  from  reliable  information. 
With  great  rapidity  the  painful  situation  developed.  In 

247 


248  THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

Shanghai  the  greatest  anxiety  was  felt  for  the  missionaries 
inland,  and  every  effort  was  made  to  keep  in  touch  with  the 
stations.  As  Peking  was  cut  off  from  the  outside  world, 
the  Legations  at  one  time  being  reported  as  fallen,  Consul- 
General  Warren  of  Shanghai  became  Acting  British  Minister, 
and  from  him,  as  well  as  from  the  Consuls  of  other  nations, 
Mr.  Stevenson  received  unbounded  help  and  sympathy. 
It  should  be  added  also  that  Consul-General  Warren  so 
valued  and  appreciated  Mr.  Stevenson's  counsel  and 
conduct  of  affairs  as  to  accord  him  unusual  powers  and 
liberty  in  the  giving  of  instructions  to  those  who  were  in 
the  interior. 

A  constant  stream  of  letters  or  telegrams  began  to  pour 
into  Shanghai  from  various  parts  of  the  country,  the  answer 
ing  of  which  caused  no  little  anxiety.  Difficulties  increased 
on  every  hand ;  telegrams  to  distant  stations  were  either 
returned,  or  their  dispatch  was  followed  by  a  painful  and 
ominous  silence.  The  Chinese  bankers  declined  business 
with  the  interior,  and  thus  supplies  could  not  be  sent. 
Each  day  seemed  more  full  than  its  predecessor  of  distressing 
news,  or  of  an  even  more  painful  suspense.  Details  of 
terrible  tragedies  gradually  began  to  leak  through,  while 
hopes  and  fears  alternated  in  regard  to  the  parties  who  were 
painfully  struggling  to  the  coast. 

Yet  there  were  not  wanting  many  tokens  of  mercy 
during  these  harrowing  months.  Not  a  few  of  the  most 
powerful  of  China's  officials  promised  their  protection,  and 
did  befriend  the  tried  workers.  The  Viceroys  of  the  Lower 
Yangtze,  of  Szechwan  and  Yunnan  all  guaranteed  assistance  ; 
the  Taotai  of  Lanchow  advanced  money,  as  well  as  lent  a 
bodyguard,  to  some  who  had  been  cut  off  from  supplies. 
H.  E.  Tuan  Fang,  Governor  of  Shensi,  not  only  protected 
but  treated  with  marked  kindness  all  foreigners  who  came 
within  his  jurisdiction,  and  even  within  territory  over  which 
he  had  no  legal  control. 

Company  after  company  of  missionaries  began  to  reach 
the  coast,  some  having  travelled  with  comparative  comfort 
and  safety,  others  having  experienced  almost  incredible 
sufferings.  The  weather,  too,  was  extremely  hot,  for  the 


THE   AFFLICTIONS  OF  THE  GOSPEL          249 

crisis  was  at  its  worst  in  July  and  August,  when  the  thermo 
meter  stood  almost  every  day  at  100  degrees  in  the 
shade. 

With  the  arrival  of  the  refugees  at  the  coast,  all  the  ports 
became  busy  and  congested  centres.  In  Shanghai  the 
rental  of  extra  premises  cost  the  Mission  £100  per  month, 
and  to  add  to  the  trial,  the  income  of  the  Mission  in  Great 
Britain  during  August  dropped  to  the  lowest  point  for 
sixteen  years.  The  China  Treasurer  reported  at  the  begin 
ning  of  September  that  he  had  only  funds  sufficient  for  two- 
thirds  of  the  normal  needs  of  the  work,  and  yet  there  were 
the  exceptional  expenses  involved  by  hundreds  of  workers 
travelling  to  the  coast,  by  the  outlay  in  special  cables  and 
telegrams,  urgent  furloughs,  and  other  unavoidable  expenses. 
This  was  a  real  trial  of  faith  when  other  trials  were  more 
than  sufficient,  and  a  trial  of  which  the  Mission  could  not 
speak  except  to  God  who  knew  what  things  were  needed, 
and  did  not  fail  His  tried  and  sorrowing  servants.  One 
member  of  the  Mission  in  Shanghai  handed  in  a  cheque  for 
£100,  for  one  month's  rent ;  another  worker  far  away  sent 
£50  ;  while  others  sent  smaller  sums  as  thank-offerings  for 
mercies  received.  In  these  and  other  ways  too  many  to 
relate,  the  love  of  God  and  the  sympathy  of  His  children 
one  for  another  were  specially  manifest  in  that  hour  of 
trial.  But  we  must  now  turn  our  thoughts  away  from 
Shanghai,  and  trace  in  briefest  outline  the  sorrows  and 
trials  of  God's  children  in  the  interior. 

It  was  in  the  province  of  Shansi,  whither  Yii  Hsien  had 
been  transferred  as  Governor,  that  the  persecutions  broke 
out  with  unexampled  fury.  Here,  with  the  Governor's 
approval  and  support,  the  Boxers  were  let  loose  upon  the 
foreigners  and  Chinese  Christians,  so  that  no  fewer  than 
159  foreigners — 113  missionaries  and  46  of  their  children- 
were  put  to  death,  together  with  several  hundreds  of  Chinese 
converts.  Of  the  foreigners  64  were  connected  with  the 
C.I.M.  Some  of  these  were  among  the  large  company 
massacred  in  Taiyuanfu,  the  capital,  on  July  9,  by  the 
direct  orders  and  in  the  presence  of  the  Governor  himself. 
Others  fell  at  lonely  stations,  and  some  perished  in  conse- 


250  THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

quence  of  the  unspeakable  sufferings  and  privations  experi 
enced  when  trying  to  reach  the  coast. 

In  the  province  of  Chihli,  where  13  missionaries  and  4 
of  their  children  suffered  martyrdom,  the  C.I.M.  lost  three 
workers  and  one  child,  one  of  these  being  the  Rev.  William 
Cooper,  who,  after  being  Assistant  China-Director,  had 
been  appointed  Travelling  Director  in  China,  and  was  at 
the  time  of  the  outbreak  visiting  the  stations  in  the  north. 
In  Mr.  Cooper's  death  the  Mission  lost  a  specially  valuable 
worker  who  had  gained  the  love  and  confidence  of  his 
brethren  in  no  ordinary  measure. 

In  the  province  of  Chekiang  the  8  missionaries  and  3 
children  who  were  slain  were  all  connected  with  the  C.I.M. 
At  first  it  was  thought  that  their  death  was  due  only  to  a 
local  rising,  but  subsequent  information  proved  that  it  was 
directly  traceable  to  the  proclamation  received  from  Peking. 
But  for  the  speedy  action  of  the  Viceroy  Liu  Kuen-yi,  who 
compelled  the  Governor  to  suppress  the  proclamation,  many 
more  lives  would  doubtless  have  been  lost. 

Thus  in  the  space  of  a  few  short  weeks  the  Mission  lost 
no  fewer  than  58  missionaries  and  21  children,  not  to  speak 
of  a  much  larger  number  of  Chinese  Christians  ;  while 
others  were  so  seriously  injured  as  to  be  incapacitated  for 
further  work  in  China.  Several  parties  of  refugees  suc 
ceeded  in  reaching  the  coast  after  enduring  anguish  and 
trial  too  great  for  words.  The  journey  from  Shansi  overland 
through  the  province  of  Honan,  a  journey  of  something 
like  a  thousand  miles,  had  to  be  endured  in  the  terrific  heat 
of  August,  and  for  the  most  part  on  foot  in  an  almost  starving 
and  naked  condition.  That  any  lived  to  tell  the  tale  was 
little  short  of  a  miracle. 

One  worker,  Dr.  J.  W.  Hewitt,  after  living  among  the 
hills  for  a  month,  was  detained  in  prison  for  two  months 
until  the  danger  was  passed.  Others,  Mr.  G.  McKie  and 
the  Misses  Chapman  and  Way — now  Mrs.  McKie  and  Mrs. 
Fiddler — lived  for  some  length  of  time  in  caves  among  the 
mountains.  Others,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  C.  H.  Green  and  two 
children,  with  Miss  Gregg,  were  captured  by  the  Boxers 
and  kept  in  captivity  for  a  period  of  four  months,  during 


THE  AFFLICTIONS  OF  THE  GOSPEL       i  251 

which  time  they  were  constantly  threatened  with  death, 
but  were  finally  released  by  the  Allied  Troops  after  the 
relief  of  Peking,  but  not  before  little  Vera,  one  of  the  dear 
children,  had  died. 

It  is  necessary  to  read  the  literature  of  this  period  to 
realize  the  beautiful  spirit  in  which  all  this  terrible  suffering 
was  borne  by  many.  One  who  wrote  in  the  midst  of  deepest 
trials  and  dangers,  having  actually  been  shot  by  the  Boxers, 
said  : 

I  am  filled  with  comfort,  I  am  exceeding  joyful  in  all  our  tribula 
tions. 

Another,  in  a  letter  penned  shortly  before  his  death, 
wrote  : 

We  rejoice  that  we  are  made  partakers  of  the  sufferings  of  Christ, 
that  when  His  glory  shall  be  revealed,  we  may  rejoice  also  with  ex 
ceeding  joy. 

Another,  a  member  of  one  of  the  American  Missions, 
wrote  : 

I  am  preparing  for  the  end  very  quietly  and  calmly.  The  Lord 
is  wonderfully  near  and  He  will  not  fail  me.  I  was  very  restless  and 
excited  while  there  seemed  a  chance  of  life;  but  God  has  taken  away 
that  feeling,  and  now  I  just  pray  for  grace  to  meet  the  terrible  end 
bravely.  The  pain  will  soon  be  over,  and  oh,  the  sweetness  of  the 
welcome  above  ...  I  cannot  imagine  the  Saviour's  welcome  !  Oh, 
that  will  compensate  for  all  these  days  of  suspense.  Dear  ones,  live 
near  to  God  and  cling  less  closely  to  earth.  There  is  no  other  way 
by  which  we  can  receive  that  peace  of  God  which  passeth  understanding. 

No  one  can  read  such  letters,  written  in  the  presence  of 
certain  death,  without  magnifying  the  grace  of  God  in  His 
servants.  Though  to  the  natural  eye  everything  appeared 
to  be  loss  and  ruin,  yet  from  the  standpoint  of  eternity 
God  was  causing  His  people  to  be  more  than  conquerors. 
All  the  Mission's  organization  in  two  provinces  had  been 
entirely  swept  away,  as  well  as  in  several  districts  in  other 
provinces.  The  missionary  body  had,  with  a  few  exceptions, 
been  withdrawn  from  their  stations  throughout  the  whole 
country.  In  many  centres  where  no  lives  were  lost,  the 


252  THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

Mission  premises  were  ruthlessly  destroyed  and  the  Chinese 
Christians  had  to  endure  months  of  suffering.  Many  had 
their  homes  and  farms  destroyed,  and  had  fled  to  the 
mountains  in  the  height  of  summer  with  nothing  but  the 
lightest  clothing  they  wore,  yet  had  to  face  the  cold  and 
hunger  of  the  ensuing  winter  with  little  or  no  relief.  Of 
them  it  may  truly  be  said  : 

They  were  stoned,  they  were  sawn  asunder,  they  were  tempted  ^ 
they  were  slain  with  the  sword  ;  they  went  about  in  sheepskins  and 
goatskins,  being  destitute,  afflicted,  evil-entreated  —  of  whom  the 
world  was  not  worthy. 

The  story  of  those  sad  and  terrible  days  is  something  to 
be  continually  remembered.  It  is  a  heritage  and  an  endow 
ment  to  be  sacredly  cherished  and  lived  up  to.  "  It  has 
been  proposed  now  and  again,"  said  Dr.  Robert  Speer,  when 
speaking  of  the  resources  of  the  Christian  Church,  "  that  we 
should  seek  in  our  Mission  Boards  for  a  financial  endowment. 
I  would  rather,"  he  added,  "  have  the  endowment  of  the 
memory  of  one  martyr  than  an  endowment  of  much  money. 
There  is  no  endowment  so  great  as  the  endowment  of  the 
memory  of  sacrifice." 


THE  AFFLICTIONS  OF  THE  GOSPEL         253 

MARTYRS  OF  THE   CHINA  INLAND  MISSION— 63 

Date  of  Decease. 

WILLIAM  S.  FLEMING        .         .         .  November  4,  1898. 

N.  CARLESON  .....  June  28,  1900. 
JUSTIN  A  ENGVALL    .... 

MINA  HEDLUND       ....  „ 

ANNA  JOHANSSON     ....  „ 

G.  E.  KARLBERG      ....  „ 

0.  A.  L.  LARSSON    ....  „ 

JENNY  LUNDELL      .         .         .         .  „ 

S.  A.  PERSSON          ....  „ 

E.  PERSSON  (nee  Pettersson)      .         .  „ 

ERNST  PETTERSSON           ...  „ 

EMILY  E.  B.  WHITCHURCH        .         .  June  30,  1900. 

EDITH  E.  SEARELL  ....  „ 

WILLIAM  COOPER     ....  July  i,  1900. 

BENJAMIN  BAGNALL         ...  „ 

EMILY  BAGNALL  (nee  Kingsbury)        .  „ 

WILLIAM  MILLAR  WILSON          .         .  July  9,  1900. 

CHRISTINE  WILSON  ....  „ 

JANE  STEVENS          ....  „ 

MILDRED  E.  CLARKE         ...  „ 

STEWART  McKEE     ....  July  12,  1900. 

KATE  McKEE  (nee  McWatters)           .  ,, 

CHARLES  S.  I'ANSON         ...  „ 

FLORENCE  I'ANSON  (nee  Doggett)      .  „ 

MARIA  ASPDEN         ....  „ 

MARGARET  E.  SMITH         ...  „ 

HATTIE  J.  RICE       ....  July  13,  1900. 

GEORGE  MCCONNELL         .         .         .  July  16,  1900. 

ISABELLA  MCCONNELL  (nee  Gray)       .  „ 

SARAH  ANN  KING    ....  „ 

ELIZABETH  BURTON           ...  „ 

JOHN  YOUNG „ 

ALICE  YOUNG  (nee  Troyer)         .         .  „ 

DAVID  BAIRD  THOMPSON  .         .         .  July  21,  1900. 

AGNES  THOMPSON  (nee  Dowman)        .  „ 

JOSEPHINE  E.  DESMOND   ...  „ 

EMMA  ANN  THIRGOOD       .         .         .  July  22,  1900. 

GEORGE  FREDERICK  WARD        .         .  „ 

ETTA  L.  WARD  (nee  Fuller)        .         .  ., 

EDITH  S.  SHERWOOD         .         .         .  July  24,  1900. 
MARIETTE  E.  MANCHESTER 


254 


THE  FOURTH  DECADE 


Date  of  Decease. 
August  6,  1900. 
August  n,  1900. 
August  13,  1900. 


MARGARET  COOPER  (nee  Palmer) 

MARY  ELIZA  HUSTON 

FRANCIS  EDITH  NATHAN  . 

MARY  ROSE  NATHAN 

ELIZA  MARY  HEAYSMAN   . 

ANTON  P.  LUNDGREN 

ELSA  LUNDGREN  (nee  Nilson)    . 

ANNIE  ELDRED 

ALFRED  WOODROFFE 

WILLIAM  GRAHAME  PEAT 

HELEN  PEAT  (nee  McKenzie) 

EDITH  J.  DOBSON    . 

EMMA  GEORGINA  HURN    . 

DUNCAN  KAY 

CAROLINE  KAY  (nee  Matthewson) 

DAVID  BARRATT 

P.  A.  OGREN   .... 

FLORA  CONSTANCE  GLOVER 

JAMES  R.  BRUCE 

RICHARD  H.  Lowis 

IDA  BECKMAN  (nee  Klint) 

WILHELM  T.  VATNE          ...  „ 

Also  27  children  of  some  of  the  missionaries  named  above. 


August  i5;  1900. 


August  18,  1900. 
August  30,  1900. 


September  15,  1900. 

)> 

September  21,  1900. 
October  15,  1900. 
October  25,  1900. 
August  i5;  1902. 

)) 
October  23,  1911. 


XXXIX 

REBUILDING  THE  WALL 

THE  Boxer  crisis  was  barely  over  ere  the  Mission  began 
definitely  to  face  the  duty  of  reconstruction.  At  a  meeting 
of  the  China  Council,  held  in  Shanghai  in  November  1900, 
a  special  Minute  was  passed  relative  to  the  recent  massacres 
and  the  Mission's  attitude  toward  the  same.  The  following 
are  some  extracts  from  that  Minute  : 

The  solemn  and  momentous  events  transpiring  in  China  at  the 
present  time,  call,,  in  our  opinion,  for  much  heart  searching  and  deep 
humiliation  before  God.  After  many  years  of  prayer  and  toil,  during 
which  time  the  Lord  has  enabled  us  to  establish  stations  and  peacefully 
labour  in  all  parts  of  the  interior,  many  of  our  fellow-workers  have 
suddenly  been  cruelly  murdered  and  the  remainder,  with  few  excep 
tions,  compelled  to  flee  to  the  coast.  These  facts  are  surely  a  loud 
call  to  earnest  and  persistent  waiting  upon  God  in  order  that  His  wise 
and  gracious  purpose  in  permitting  these  events  may  be  clearly  under 
stood  by  us,  that  they  may  prove  of  lasting  blessing,  both  to  us  indi 
vidually  and  as  a  Mission,  and  be  overruled  for  the  furtherance  of  the 
Gospel  in  this  land. 

After  placing  on  record  the  Council's  deep  sense  of 
God's  goodness  in  sparing  so  many  lives,  in  raising  up 
friends  among  many  of  the  officials,  the  Minute  records  the 
loss  of  those  who  had  suffered  martyrdom.  It  then  proceeds  : 

While  we  lament  the  loss  of  both  our  foreign  and  native  brethren 
and  fellow-workers  who  have  fallen  in  the  fight,  we  cannot  but  rejoice 
that  they  have  been  faithful  unto  death,  and  have  been  counted  worthy 
to  win  the  martyr's  crown.  And  though  we  fear  whole  Churches 
have  been  completely  swept  away  by  fierce  persecution,  and  the  work 

255 


256  THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

of  years  in  some  districts  completely  disorganized,  we  are  still  assured 
that  God  reigns.  .  .  .  For  ourselves  we  can  but  express  an  earnest 
desire  that  since  God  has  been  pleased  to  spare  us  for  further  service, 
our  lives  may  in  the  future  be  more  than  ever  devoted  to  Him,  and 
that  these  solemn  events  so  far  from  discouraging  us  may  be  an  in 
centive  to  more  strenuous  efforts  by  prayer  and  consecrated  labour, 
both  on  the  part  of  the  home  churches  and  of  the  workers  in  the  field, 
for  the  evangelization  of  this  needy  land. 

In  this  spirit  the  task  and  problems  of  reconstruction 
were  faced.  There  had  been  some  not  unfounded  anxiety 
lest  the  Chinese  and  Foreign  Governments  might  put  certain 
hindrances  in  the  way  of  missionaries,  and  especially  of 
ladies,  returning  to  the  interior  when  the  crisis  was  over. 
This  difficulty  happily  did  not  arise,  and  the  Mission  found, 
in  spite  of  considerable  criticism  from  certain  quarters, 
sincere  sympathy  and  help  from  those  who  officially  repre 
sented  the  respective  Governments. 

It  had  been  a  sore  trial  to  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor  that  he 
had  been  unable  through  ill-health  to  be  in  China  during  the 
crisis.  As  the  weeks  of  anxiety  and  sorrow  passed,  it  became 
increasingly  doubtful  whether  he  would  ever  be  able  to  take 
up  again  the  heavy  responsibilities  of  directing  the  work  in 
the  field.  He  therefore  felt  the  need  of  appointing  some  one 
in  his  place,  lest  the  heavy  strain  upon  Mr.  Stevenson  should 
prove  more  than  he  could  bear.  When  the  news  of  Mr. 
William  Cooper's  death  came  to  hand,  this  need  became 
increasingly  evident.  The  question  of  a  successor  had  been 
one  over  which  Mr.  Taylor  had  long  and  earnestly  prayed 
and  pondered,  and  in  March  1901,  Mr.  Dixon  Edward 
Hoste  was  appointed  Acting  General  Director,  the  appoint 
ment  having  previously  received  the  cordial  approval  of 
Mr.  Stevenson  and  of  the  Councils  of  the  Mission  in  China 
and  at  home. 

To  take  over  the  control  of  the  Mission  at  such  a  time 
was  no  easy  task,  for  the  work  had  been  largely  disorganized, 
and  many  serious  and  exacting  questions  had  to  be  faced 
and  dealt  with.  In  the  task  of  reorganization,  one  problem 
in  particular  had  to  be  carefully  and  prayerfully  considered, 
and  that  was  the  Mission's  attitude  toward  compensation. 
Long  before  the  general  question  arose,  it  had  been  raised 


REBUILDING  THE  WALL  257 

locally  by  the  Governor  of  Chekiang,  who  was  anxious 
without  delay  to  make  what  reparation  was  possible  for  the 
massacres  at  Chiichowfu.  Mr.  Taylor,  who  had  been  ap 
proached  on  this  subject,  had  advised  the  Mission 

"  To  claim  for  nothing,  but  to  accept,  where  offered,  compensation 
for  destroyed  Mission  premises  and  property ;  as  I  feel,"  he  wrote, 
"  we  hold  these  on  trust  for  God's  work.  .  .  . 

"  For  injury  or  loss  of  life  to  refuse  all  compensation." 

TheMission's  attitude  towards  the  problem  of  compensa 
tion  to  Chinese  Christians  was  also  discussed,  though  this 
was  regarded  as  a  matter  chiefly  between  the  Chinese 
Government  and  its  own  subjects. 

These  decisions,  however,  were  subsequently  modified 
in  the  light  of  fuller  knowledge  and  further  consideration. 
Thousands  of  Chinese,  many  of  them  as  innocent  as  the 
missionaries,  had  been  ruined  and  robbed  of  their  all,  and 
sometimes  slain  through  the  action  of  the  allied  troops, 
whose  conduct  was  not  always  beyond  reproach.  The 
importance  of  making  clear  to  the  Chinese  the  distinction 
between  the  principles  which  govern  the  action  of  mission 
aries,  as  witnesses  to  Christ  and  the  Gospel,  and  those  of  the 
temporal  power,  as  entrusted  with  the  vindication  of  law 
and  order,  was  more  and  more  recognized  as  the  extent  of 
the  losses  and  sufferings  inflicted  upon  the  Chinese  became 
known.  It  was  felt  that  an  admirable  opportunity  presented 
itself  of  showing  to  the  Chinese,  in  a  way  that  they  could 
readily  appreciate,  "  the  meekness  and  gentleness  of  Christ "  ; 
and  therefore  it  was  finally  decided  not  only  not  to  enter 
any  claim  against  the  Chinese  Government,  but  to  refrain 
from  accepting  compensation  even  if  offered.  Though  the 
damage  to  property  amounted  to  many  thousands  of  pounds, 
it  was  believed  that  if  the  policy  adopted  were  glorifying  to 
God,  He  would  provide  what  was  necessary. 

With  this  important  question  settled,  the  policy  of  the 
Mission  was  clear  as  soon  as  the  way  opened  for  workers  to 
return  to  the  interior.  As  early  as  November  short  journeys 
had  been  permitted,  and  gradually  the  more  distant  stations 
became  accessible.  In  March  1901  the  public  Memorial 

s 


258  THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

and  Burial  Services  of  the  martyrs  at  Paotingfu  took  place, 
and  in  June  a  company  of  eight  missionaries,  representing 
the  Societies  affected,  started  for  Shansi — Messrs.  D.  E. 
Hoste,  A.  Orr  Ewing,  C.  H.  Tjader,  and  Ernest  Taylor  being 
those  connected  with  the  C.I.M.  Taiyuanfu,  the  capital, 
was  reached  on  July  9,  the  first  anniversary  of  the  terrible 
massacre  in  that  city.  Here  the  party  were  officially 
received,  and  impressive  Memorial  and  Burial  Services  were 
held,  somewhat  similar  gatherings  being  subsequently  con 
ducted  at  the  other  centres  where  workers  had  fallert. 

Following  these  Memorial  Services  and  the  acceptance  of 
an  Official  Apology,  the  many  different  questions  connected 
with  indemnity  to  the  Chinese  Christians  and  the  cases  of 
those  who  had  recanted  had  to  be  dealt  with.  The  Governor 
of  Shansi  had  spontaneously  offered  indemnity  to  the 
Chinese  converts  ;  and  a  list  of  reliable  men  with  whom  the 
Chinese  Foreign  Office  could  deal  in  each  district  had  to  be 
drawn  up,  two  of  the  leading  Christians  being  appointed 
as  general  overseers. 

At  the  same  time  a  statement  of  the  Mission's  losses  was 
made  to  the  Taotai  of  the  Foreign  Office,  who  was  then 
informed  that  no  compensation  for  these  losses  would  be 
accepted.  This  conduct  called  forth  from  the  Governor  of 
the  province  a  remarkable  proclamation,  which  was  posted 
up  in  every  centre  where  the  Mission  had  suffered.  The 
exceptional  tone  of  this  proclamation  had  undoubtedly  a 
good  effect  throughout  the  province,  and  went  a  long  way 
to  re-establish  friendly  feelings  when  the  missionaries 
returned.  Some  extracts  from  this  document  are  worth 
recording  here  : 

The  Governor  hereby  notifies  by  proclamation  that,  in  the  second 
paragraph  of  the  agreement  made  by  Mr.  Hoste  with  the  Foreign 
Office  at  Taiyuanfu,  it  is  stated  that  the  C.I.M.  wishes  no  indemnity 
for  the  chapels  and  dwelling-houses  that  had  been  erected  or  bought 
in  the  following  fifteen  cities,  etc.  (Here  follow  the  names.) 

The  Mission  requests  the  Governor  to  issue  a  proclamation,  to  be 
hung  up  in  each  of  the  Church  buildings  for  the  erection  of  which  no 
indemnity  has  been  asked,  stating  that  the  Mission,  in  rebuilding 
these  Churches  with  its  own  funds,  aims  in  so  doing  to  fulfil  the 
command  of  the  SAVIOUR  OF  THE  WORLD,  that  all  men  should  love 


REBUILDING  THE  WALL  259 

their  neighbours  as  themselves.  .  .  .  Contrasting  the  way  in  which 
we  have  been  treated  by  the  missionaries  with  our  treatment  of  them, 
how  can  any  one  who  has  the  least  regard  for  right  and  reason  not 
feel  ashamed  of  this  behaviour.  .  .  .  JESUS  1  in  His  instructions 
inculcates  forbearance  and  forgiveness,  and  all  desire  for  revenge  is 
discouraged.  Mr.  Hoste  is  able  to  carry  out  these  principles  to  the 
full.  .  .  .  From  this  time  forward  I  charge  you  all,  gentry,  scholars, 
army,  and  people,  those  of  you  who  are  fathers  to  exhort  your  sons, 
and  those  who  are  elder  sons  to  exhort  your  younger  brothers,  to  bear 
in  mind  the  example  of  Pastor  Hoste,  who  is  able  to  forbear  and  to 
forgive  as  taught  by  JESUS  to  do. 

This  proclamation  posted  up  throughout  the  province 
was  an  object-lesson  to  all,  and  was  calculated  to  do  more 
to  make  known  the  spirit  of  Jesus  Christ  than  many  years 
of  preaching,  and  from  this  standpoint  alone  was  worth 
far  more  than  any  amount  of  compensation. 

Without  following  in  detail  the  reopening  of  the  work 
in  other  provinces,  it  may  suffice  to  say  that  in  little  more 
than  a  year  from  the  outbreak  of  the  troubles,  Mission  work 
had  been  resumed  in  most  parts  of  China.  The  Peace 
protocol  was  not  signed  officially  until  September  1901, 
and  in  this  China's  aged  statesman  H.  E.  Li  Hung-chang 
performed  his  last  service  to  his  country.  It  is  somewhat 
pathetic  to-day  to  read,  in  his  recently  published  Diary, 
his  feelings  at  that  time.  We  have  seen  how  he,  with  others, 
attempted  to  turn  the  Empress-Dowager  from  the  folly  of 
her  way.  Now  he  was  called  upon  to  do  what  in  him  lay 
to  remedy  the  evil.  When  the  call  came  for  him  to  go  to 
Peking  to  open  negotiations,  he  wrote  : 

A  rest  of  a  few  days,  and  then  I  will  proceed  to  Peking  to  stay  the 
hand  of  the  Powers  as  much  as  in  me  lies.  Oh,  if  my  own  hand  were 
not  so  weak,  and  my  cause  so  much  weaker  !  The  Court  is  in  hiding 
and  the  people  are  distracted.  There  is  no  Government,  and  chaos 
reigns.  I  fear  the  task  before  me  is  too  great  for  my  strength  of  body, 
though  I  would  do  one  thing  more  before  I  call  the  earthly  battle  over. 
I  would  have  the  foreigners  believe  in  us  once  more ;  and  not  deprive 

1  Throughout  the  proclamation  the  Name  of  Jesus  was  "  exalted," 
that  is,  was  lifted  up  above  the  head  of  the  line — Chinese  being  written 
perpendicularly — which  is  the  Chinese  way  of  honouring  a  name  or  person. 


260  THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

China  of  her  National  life  ;  and  I  would  like  to  bring  "  old  Buddha  "  l 
back  to  the  palace,  and  ask  her  if  she  had  learned  her  lesson. 

Li  Hung-chang's  mission  was  successful,  though  he  never 
lived  to  see  the  Empress -Do  wager  again ;  for  within  two 
months  of  the  completion  of  his  task,  and  long  before  the 
Court  returned  to  Peking,  he  breathed  his  last. 

The  Court  returned  to  the  capital  in  January  1902,  and 
later  on  in  the  same  year  the  foreign  Governments  permitted 
ladies  to  return  to  Shansi,  thus  removing  the  last  restriction 
imposed  upon  missionary  labour  since  the  outbreak  of 
persecution. 

1  A  sobriquet  for  the  Empress-Dowager. 


THE   FIFTH   DECADE 

1905-1915 

CHAP.  40.  A  PERIOD  OF  TRANSITION. 

„  41.  MASS  MOVEMENTS  AND  REVIVAL. 

„  42.  GRACE  ABOUNDING. 

„  43.  To  EARTH'S  REMOTEST  BOUNDS. 

„  44.  INSTITUTIONAL  WORK. 

„  45.   FACTS  ABOUT  FINANCE. 

„  46.  THE  MISSION  FROM  WITHIN. 

„  47.   THE  REVOLUTION  AND  AFTER. 

„  48.  THE  MISSIONARY  AT  WORK. 

„  49.  ALL  MANNER  OF  SERVICE. 

„  50.  THE  YEAR  OF  JUBILEE. 


261 


I  have  no  faith  whatever  in  organizations  except  so  far  as  they  are  a 
useful  means  for  making  known  a  truth  or  dispensing  help  to  those  who 
need  it ;  and  when  they  are  completely  subordinated  to  those  ends.  They 
are  apt  to  become  a  snare  to  those  who  invent  them  and  work  them,  unless 
great  care  is  taken  to  revive  continually  within  them  the  life  by  which 
alone  they  can  usefully  exist.  .  .  . 

All  my  care  is  for  the  principle  which  we  have  been  called  to  proclaim, 
not  for  the  machinery  through  which  the  drudgery  of  the  work  has  been 
facilitated.  God  does  not  need  our  poor  machinery.  He  can  create  other 
methods  of  spreading  a  truth,  if  those  now  existing  had  better  come  to  an 
end. 

There  is  a  deep  meaning  in  that  mysterious  vision  of  Ezekiel,  of  the 
living  creatures  and  the  wings.  They  were  together  lifted  up  from  the 
earth,  and  guided  through  space  as  God  willed  ;  the  wheels,  wheels  within 
wheels,  an  intricate  mechanism,  moved  upwards  and  onwards,  with  the 
ease  and  power  of  a  soaring  eagle,  because  the  Spirit  was  in  the  wheels, 
the  Spirit  which  was  as  a  lamp  of  fire  and  as  lightning.  I  have  sometimes 
thought  if  the  Spirit  had  left  those  creatures  and  that  mass  of  wheels,  with 
what  a  crash  they  would  have  come  down  to  the  ground  1  So  long  as  we 
have  that  Spirit,  even  our  wheels  will  have  life,  and  our  humble  organization 
will  continue,  as  it  has  done  till  now,  to  glide  past  all  dangers  and  to  win 
true  hearts  to  our  cause. 

JOSEPHINE  E.  BUTLER. 


XL 
A   PERIOD   OF  TRANSITION 

THE  battle  of  the  reactionary  party  in  China  had  been 
fought  and  lost  during  the  Boxer  crisis,  and  the  years  which 

(followed  became  in  a  marked  sense  years  of  transition. 
The  great  Siberian  railway,  linking  up  the  eastern  and 
western  hemispheres,  was  opened  in  1901,  and  the  trunk 
line,  uniting  Peking  to  Hankow,  was,  apart  from  the  Yellow 
River  bridge,  completed  by  1904.  These  and  other  railways, 
together  with  the  introduction  of  a  new  Postal  system, 
played  an  important  part  in  modernizing  China.  ^ 

During  the  same  period  there  was  rapid  growth  in  the 
area  and  importance  of  the  ports  in  China.  At  Tientsin, 
for  instance,  the  Foreign  Concession  increased  from  510 
acres  to  3860  acres  within  four  years.  At  Shanghai  the 
Japanese  residents  multiplied  three  times  within  five  years, 
and  the  quinquennial  census  of  1905  showed  a  foreign 
population  of  12,000  persons.  Foreign  trade  advanced 
with  equal  rapidity. 

A  few  years  before  the  Boxer  crisis  the  only  papers 
published  in  China — apart  from  the  official  Gazettes — were 
edited  by  missionaries  ;  whereas,  by  1905  there  were  more 
than  150  papers  and  periodicals  controlled,  for  the  most 
part,  by  non-Christian  men.  An  analysis,  made  about  this 
time,  of  foreign  works  translated  into  Chinese  and  on  the 
China  market  gave  a  list  of  2361  books. 

Educationally  China  was  passing  through  a  period  of 
change  amounting  almost  to  a  revolution.  Colleges  for 
western  learning  were  opened  in  rapid  succession  in  nearly 

263 


264  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

all  the  provincial  capitals,  and  in  September  1905  the  old 
educational  system  was  abolished  by  edict.  In  Peking  the 
old  Examination  Hall  was  transformed  into  a  Naval  College, 
and  the  Peking  University  took  over  a  site  of  3000  English 
acres  for  necessary  enlargements.  Chinese  students  also 
flocked  to  Japan,  where  nearly  9000  were  in  residence  during 
1905.  Concurrently  with  this  greater  opening  of  mind 
towards  western  learning  was  the  more  friendly  attitude  of 
Chinese  officials  and  gentry  towards  the  work  of  Christian 
missions.  The  terrible  war  between  Russia  and  Japan, 
which  lasted  from  February  5,  1904,  to  August  12,  1905, 
did  not  seriously  disturb  the  work  in  China  Proper,  though 
it  ushered  in  a  new  period  in  European  and  Asiatic  history. 

Turning  from  these  public  events,  we  note  that  this 
period  was  also  marked  by  important  changes  within  the 
Mission.  As  already  recorded,  Mr.  Taylor  had  found  in 
1900  that  ill-health  prevented  him  from  bearing  any  longer 
the  burden  of  leadership,  and  had  therefore  appointed  Mr. 
D.  E.  Hoste  as  Acting  General  Director.  Absence  from 
the  field  and  almost  entire  relief  from  responsibilities  did 
not  secure  any  marked  restoration  to  health,  so  toward  the 
close  of  1902  Mr.  Taylor  finally  decided  to  retire  from  the 
office  of  General  Director.  On  January  i,  1903,  he  definitely 
appointed  Mr.  D.  E.  Hoste  to  the  position  from  which  he 
had  retired,  a  position  which  Mr.  Hoste  had  already  held 
in  an  acting  capacity  for  nearly  two  years. 

In  preparation  for  these  great  responsibilities,  Mr.  Hoste 
had,  as  the  colleague  of  Pastor  Hsi  for  about  ten  years,  and 
as  Superintendent  of  the  work  in  Shansi  and  later  in  Honan, 
obtained  an  intimate  acquaintance  with  the  problems  and 
trials  of  life  and  work  in  the  interior.  And  to  the  arduous 
task  of  directing  so  large  a  Mission,  he  brought  in  addition 
a  mind  and  character  disciplined  by  long  thought  on  the 
problems  of  the  work,  a  clear  insight  into  the  secrets  of 
spiritual  leadership,  a  wide  grasp  of  detail,  tact,  and,  above 
all  things,  a  spirit  habituated  to  prayer.  During  the  more 
than  fourteen  years  which  have  elapsed  since  this  burden 
of  leadership  was  accepted  the  Mission  has  grown  from  a 
membership  of  about  750  to  more  than  1050 — with  corre- 


A  PERIOD  OF  TRANSITION  265 

spending  development  in  all  departments — and  the  passage 
of  these  years  has  only  increased  the  Mission's  loyalty  to 
and  thankfulness  for  the  man  of  God's  choice. 

In  June  1905  Mr.  Taylor,  five  years  after  his  breakdown, 
was  suddenly  summoned  Home  to  his  reward.  For  the 
greater  part  of  this  time  of  retirement  he  had  resided  in 
Switzerland,  following  with  the  deepest  interest  and  sym 
pathy  the  progress  of  the  work,  though  debarred  from  much 
active  participation.  Early  in  1905,  some  months  after 
the  death  of  his  beloved  wife,  Mr.  Taylor  decided,  though 
in  feeble  health,  to  visit  China  once  more.  Shanghai  was 
reached  on  April  17,  in  company  with  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Howard 
Taylor.  The  following  weeks  were  something  like  a 
triumphal  procession  for  this  aged  warrior.  Several  stations 
on  the  Yangtze  were  visited,  and  five  stations  in  Honan, 
where  the  Chinese  converts  gave  touching  demonstrations  of 
their  love  and  affection  for  the  one  who  had  suffered  and 
accomplished  so  much  for  their  native  land. 

From  Hankow  the  party  proceeded  to  Changsha,  the 
capital  of  Hunan.  This  famous  city  was  reached  on  June  i, 
and  on  Saturday,  June  3,  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Keller  planned  a 
reception  for  all  the  missionaries  resident  in  the  city — some 
thirty  in  all,  representing  six  or  seven  Societies.  Tea  was 
served  in  the  little  garden,  and  a  quiet  and  happy  time  was 
enjoyed.  That  evening,  without  a  word  or  struggle,  Mr. 
Taylor's  weary  spirit  winged  its  flight  to  realms  of  day. 
In  such  a  Home-Call  there  was  almost  a  dramatic  fitness. 
More  than  fifty-one  years  had  passed  since  he  had  first  landed 
on  China's  shores,  years  spent  in  unremitting  toil  and  self- 
denying  labour  for  the  opening  up  of  the  closed  interior, 
and  now  his  work  was  done.  Hunan,  the  last  province  to  be 
opened  to  the  Gospel,  had  been  visited,  and  in  its  capital, 
for  which  he  had  so  often  prayed,  he  was  permitted,  in  spirit 
at  least,  to  say  like  Simeon  of  old  : 

Now  lettest  Thou  Thy  servant  depart,  0  Lord,  according  to  Thy 
word,  in  peace,  for  mine  eyes  have  seen  Thy  salvation. 

With  chastened  and  solemnized  hearts  the  Mission 
realized  something  of  its  loss  and  of  the  increased  responsi- 


266  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

bility  which  thus  devolved  upon  it  to  maintain  the  traditions 
and  the  spirit  of  its  revered  founder  and  leader.  With  a 
fresh  consecration  and  with  renewed  confidence  the  future 
was  faced,  the  kind  providence  of  God  being  recognized, 
which  had  spared  the  beloved  founder  and  leader  during 
these  years  of  transition  to  strengthen  by  prayer,  counsel, 
and  moral  influence  the  hands  of  the  one  called  upon  to  be 
his  successor. 


Hi 


Photos  by  Dr.  Kelln: 

GROUP  OF  CHINESE  WORKERS. 

Not  having  portraits  of  the  Chinese  pastors  of  the  Mission,  this  group  of  Evangelists  at  work  in 
Hunan  is  given  to  show  some  of  the  men  engaged  in  evangelizing  China. 

1.  Yiian     Fuh-su,    a    converted          2.  Cheng  Yiiin-t'ao,  Head  Evan-  3.  Han    En-show  (see    footnot 

Buddhist  Priest.  gelist.  p.  233). 

4.  T'ien    Hsin-pei,    Head    Evan-          5.  Hsiao  Mo-Kwang.  Head  Evan-  ~    Chow  Kwei-lin   Colporteur 

7.  WuPao-lin,  formerly  a  Soldier.          8.  Ts'ao  I-lin,  a  converted  Actor.  9.  Wang  Fuh-ting,  Colporteur. 

To  face  page  267. 


XLI 
MASS  MOVEMENTS   AND   REVIVAL 

DURING  the  period  of  transition,  spoken  of  in  the  previous 
chapter,  mass  movements  towards  Christianity  began  to 
manifest  themselves  in  different  parts  of  China,  and  these 
were  followed  by  a  wave  of  spiritual  revival  which  swept 
over  many  of  the  Churches  of  the  land.  So  widespread  and 
general  were  the  movements  of  those  days  that  it  is  not 
possible  to  describe  the  experiences  of  one  Mission  without 
the  use  of  general  terms,  for  all  Missions  more  or  less 
participated  and  became  mutual  helpers  one  of  another. 
The  work  of  God  is  one,  and  when  God's  Spirit  is  poured 
forth  this  unity  or  common  participation  in  blessing  is 
felt  by  all. 

It  was  during  the  year  1902  that  the  mass  movements 
were  first  noticed,  especially  in  Szechwan.  Like  the  prodigal 
son  in  the  parable,  who  was  moved  by  hunger  to  think  of 
his  father's  home,  many  of  those  who  at  this  time  professed 
an  interest  in  Christianity,  did  so  with  the  hope  of  temporal 
benefit.  The  collapse  of  the  Boxer  movement  had  demon 
strated  the  might  of  foreign  nations,  and  many  therefore 
sought  the  friendship  of  the  foreigner,  especially  those  who 
desired  to  escape  the  unrighteous  fleecing  of  rapacious 
officials,  or  assistance  in  lawsuits  with  Roman  Catholics. 
Considerable  discussion  arose  among  the  missionaries  as  to 
what  was  the  correct  attitude  to  adopt  towards  these  move 
ments  ;  some  thought  it  their  duty  to  let  them  alone  as 
unspiritual  ;  while  others,  fully  recognizing  the  ulterior 
motives,  regarded  them  as  God  -  given  opportunities. 

267 


268  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

Wealthy  Chinese  in  many  centres  were  subscribing  large 
sums  of  money  for  the  opening  of  Gospel  halls,  and  the 
questions  which  had  to  be  faced  were,  Shall  these  halls  be 
left  to  themselves  no  matter  what  evil  consequences  follow  ? 
or,  Shall  they  be  utilized  and  the  movement  controlled  and 
guided  ? 

In  many  stations  the  missionaries  were  perfectly  be 
wildered  by  the  lands  and  buildings  freely  offered  by  the 
people,  and  by  the  hundreds  of  would-be  enquirers  desiring 
to  be  enrolled.  Shop-owners  offered  their  shops  as  chapels, 
and  crowds  gathered  daily  to  hear  the  Gospel.  Mr.  Montagu 
Beauchamp,  to  use  Bishop  Cassels'  words,  was  "  almost 
pulled  to  pieces  by  people  wanting  him  north,  south,  east 
and  west,  many  days'  journey  off  from  the  position  in  which 
he  was  located."  And  Mr.  Beauchamp's  experiences  are 
only  given  as  typical  of  others.  The  phrase  "  as  never 
before  "  became  a  commonplace  in  reports  and  speeches  of 
that  day — "Men  crowd  into  our  preaching  halls  as  never 
before  "  ;  "  there  is  an  eagerness  for  education  as  never 
before  "  ;  "  there  is  a  friendliness  towards  the  missionary 
such  as  there  never  was  before." 

In  1905  Bishop  Cassels  reported  :  "  In  my  own  district, 
during  the  last  seven  years,  our  central  stations  have 
increased  three-fold,  our  out-stations  more  than  ten-fold, 
and  our  opportunities  certainly  more  than  a  hundred-fold/' 
With  such  golden  openings  the  Bishop  had  to  report  that 
the  reinforcements  of  foreign  workers  for  the  fields  thus 
white  unto  harvest  in  his  district  gave  "  a  net  increase  of 
three  men."  This  was  the  grievous  element  in  this  wonder 
ful  movement,  for  subsequent  events  proved  that  in  those 
places  where  experienced  workers  were  appointed,  a  per 
manent  work  in  most  cases  became  established  ;  whereas, 
in  those  centres  where  the  movements  were  neglected,  or 
perforce  left  alone,  they  either  lapsed  or  hopelessly  de 
teriorated. 

It  was  from  this  period  that  a  rapid  and  permanent 
increase  in  baptisms  commenced.  Twenty  years  earlier 
the  annual  number  of  baptisms  reported  by  the  Mission 
was  about  400  ;  by  1895  the  figure  had  risen  to  700  ;  ten 


MASS  MOVEMENTS  AND  REVIVAL  269 

years  later  it  had  reached  the  sum  of  2500  ;  and  during  the 
last  two  years  the  annual  baptisms  have  been  4500  and  5000 
respectively. 

Following  this  mass  movement,  a  quickening  of  the 
Church  began  to  be  felt  throughout  China.  At  the  Shanghai 
Missionary  Conference  of  1907  a  resolution  was  unanimously 
adopted  calling  for  united  prayer  that  God  would  raise  up 
men  with  special  evangelistic  gifts,  whom  He  could  use  in 
reviving  the  life  of  the  Churches,  and  in  gathering  in  the 
tens  of  thousands  who  already  had  some  knowledge  of  the 
Gospel.  Immediately  following  this  conference,  the  Rev.  J. 
Goforth  of  the  Canadian  Presbyterian  Mission,  who  had  for 
years  been  much  exercised  on  the  subject  of  revivals,  was 
unexpectedly  requested  to  escort  a  deputation  from  his 
Home  Board  to  Korea,  where  a  great  spiritual  awakening 
was  in  progress.  When  returning  through  Manchuria,  Mr. 
Goforth  was  used  of  God  to  spread  the  flame  of  revival  in 
that  land,  and  in  the  autumn  of  1908  he  was  invited  to  visit 
some  of  the  C.I.M.  stations  in  Shansi.  During  his  visit 
many  of  the  Christians  were  deeply  moved,  and  especially 
those  who  were  able  to  attend  more  than  one  series  of 
meetings. 

One  of  the  men  who  received  most  help  was  a  young 
evangelist  named  Wang  Chi'-t'ai,  who  had  previously  devoted 
much  time  to  the  study  of  God's  Word  and  prayer.  At  the 
conclusion  of  Mr.  Goforth's  mission  Mr.  Albert  Lutley, 
accompanied  by  this  evangelist,  made  a  tour  of  the  Mission 
stations  north  and  west  of  Hungtung,  in  order  to  attend  the 
usual  autumn  conferences.  The  first  Sunday  was  spent  at 
the  station  of  Hwochow,  where  a  wave  of  confession  and 
prayer  broke  over  the  congregation  when  Mr.  Lutley  was 
preaching.  This  experience,  which  came  as  a  great  surprise, 
appeared  to  show  that  the  Holy  Spirit  was  working  power 
fully  in  the  hearts  of  the  people,  and  in  consequence  the 
order  of  the  conference  at  the  more  northerly  station, 
Kiehsiu,  was  changed  so  as  to  allow  more  time  for  quiet 
waiting  upon  God.  Here  the  work  deepened  from  day 
to  day.  Backsliders  were  re-established ;  quarrels  were 
settled  ;  jealousy,  envy,  and  other  sins  were  confessed,  and 


270  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

forgiveness  sought ;  stolen  property  was  restored,  and  in 
short  the  general  spiritual  life  of  the  Church  was  raised. 
Q)uring  the  closing  days  of  this  conference  the  love  of  God 
was  shed  abroad  in  the  hearts  of  those  present  in  a  remark 
able  manner,  and  an  intense  desire  was  begotten  in  the 
hearts  of  all  for  the  salvation  of  their  heathen  relations  and 
neighbours!}  This  gracious  work  spread  from  station  to 
station,  and  during  the  autumn  and  winter  of  1908  and  1909 
similar  meetings  were  conducted  in  nearly  all  the  C.I.M. 
stations  in  Shansi.  In  all  these  meetings  Evangelist  Wang- 
took  a  prominent  part.  His  messages,  which  were  usually 
an  exposition  of  a  passage  from  one  of  the  minor  Prophets, 
or  referred  to  the  sufferings  of  Christ,  were  delivered  very 
quietly,  without  demonstration  or  excitement,  and  exercised 
a  remarkable  power  over  those  who  heard  him. 

In  the  following  spring  Messrs.  Lutley  and  Wang  visited 
the  Sian  Plain,  and  held  meetings  in  the  Churches  of  the 
C.I.M.,  the  Scandinavian  Alliance  Mission,  and  the  English 
Baptist  Misoion.  The  same  general  characteristics  were 
manifested  throughout  these  gatherings,  and  many  con 
versions  took  place  among  the  boys  and  girls  in  the  Missions' 
Schools. 

Early  in  January  1910  the  same  workers,  accompanied 
by  a  Christian  servant,  Wu-nien,  started  on  a  long  overland 
journey  to  Szechwan,  in  response  to  an  urgent  invitation 
from  the  missionaries  there.  In  the  light  of  what  followed, 
it  is  interesting  to  quote  the  following  words  from  Bishop 
Cassels'  report  on  the  East  Szechwan  district  for  1909  : 

We  greatly  need  the  breath  of  revival,  which  we  hear  is  being  felt 
in  many  places  throughout  China  ;  and  we  have  a  very  distinct  ex 
pectation  that  ere  long  we  shall  ourselves  feel  that  life-giving  and 
refreshing  breath  ;  that  the  Spirit  of  God  will  be  poured  out  upon  us, 
and  that  He  will  do  better  unto  us  than  at  the  beginning,  so  that  the 
wilderness  shall  become  a  pool  of  water,  and  the  dry  land  springs  of 
water.  May  God  grant  it  for  His  glory. 

The  meetings  so  much  desired  commenced  at  Kwangyuan, 
in  the  north  of  the  province,  on  Chinese  New  Year's  day,  and 
the  mission  lasted  for  about  six  months,  all  Societies  labour 
ing  in  the  province  heartily  co-operating.  In  nearly  every 


MASS  MOVEMENTS  AND  REVIVAL  271 

centre  the  same  deep  conviction  of  sin  characterized  the 
meetings,  the  sense  of  God's  personal  presence  being  fre 
quently  so  real  that  the  whole  congregation  would  fall  on 
their  knees  with  their  faces  to  the  ground,  and  waves  of 
prayer  and  confession,  accompanied  with  weeping,  would 
pass  over  the  assembly.  Most  touching  scenes  were  wit 
nessed  when  the  pastors  or  Church  leaders  would  rise,  and 
with  deep  emotion  confess  their  failures  to  their  flock  ;  when 
brothers  who  had  been  long  estranged  sought  each  other 
out  and  made  mutual  confession  ;  when  children  confessed 
to  parents  and  parents  to  children  ;  when  prodigals  came, 
and  kneeling  at  their  parents'  feet,  asked  for  forgiveness  ; 
or  when  those  who  had  been  long  at  enmity  knelt  together 
confessing  their  sins  to  one  another  and  to  God  amid  in 
describable  outbursts  of  weeping  and  joy. 

Bishop  Cassels,  when  reporting  on  the  work  of  1910,  was 
able  to  show  how  God  had  fulfilled  the  desires  and  prayer 
expressed  in  the  report  of  the  previous  year.  The  following 
are  a  few  sentences  from  his  report  for  1910  : 

It  would  be  easy  to  fill  over  and  over  again  the  space  at  our  disposal 
by  describing  in  detail  the  work  done  in  these  meetings,  and  it  would 
be  easy  to  give  numbers  of  individual  cases  of  those  who  received 
blessing.  All  that  is  possible  here  is  to  give  a  general  idea  of  the 
meetings.,  and  to  add  a  few  remarks  about  the  permanent  results.  .  .  . 
The  workers  had  thought  the  Chinese  stolid  and  unemotional,  but  even 
those  who  had  seen  most  of  mission  or  revival  work  at  home,  had  never 
before  witnessed  such  moving  scenes  as  during  these  meetings  out 
here.  .  .  . 

Scoffers  might  call  the  work  by  an  evil  name  ;  unbelievers  might 
laugh  at  the  unusual  scenes  ;  hard  hearts  might  for  a  time  resist  the 
influence  ;  but  those  whose  eyes  were  opened  and  whose  hearts  were 
touched,  felt  indeed  that  now,  if  never  before,  they  had  been  brought 
into  touch  with  the  powers  of  the  other  world,  and  with  the  mighty 
working  of  the  Spirit  of  God. 

At  the  close  of  the  mission  to  Szechwan  Mr.  Lutley 
visited  the  stations  of  the  Swedish  Holiness  Union  and  the 
Swedish  Alliance  Mission  in  North  Shansi,  where  the  same 
gracious  work  of  the  Holy  Spirit  was  witnessed.  In  the 
summer  and  autumn  of  1911  another  mission,  lasting  about 
four  months,  was  conducted  among  the  Churches  in  Kansu 


272  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

and  Shensi.  Similar  manifestations  of  blessing  attended 
this  work,  and  in  addition  one  of  the  most  encouraging 
features  was  the  number  of  conversions.  At  Liangchow  a 
Chinese  servant  restored  a  large  box  filled  with  things  he 
had  stolen  from  his  master.  At  Lanchow  a  Christian,  who 
for  years  previously  had  wrongly  used  a  certain  sum  of 
money,  restored  that  amount  twofold.  At  Minchow  the 
sense  of  the  Divine  presence  was  so  overpowering  that 
heathen  gentry  were  seen  to  prostrate  themselves  on  the 
floor  as  soon  as  they  entered  the  building,  and  some  who 
had  openly  opposed  the  Gospel  spontaneously  stood  up 
and  confessed  their  faith  in  Christ.  At  several  stations  a 
wonderful  spirit  of  liberality  manifested  itself  among  those 
who  had  been  blessed.  Women  and  girls  took  oft  their 
silver  ornaments,  and  put  them  into  the  collection  plate  ; 
while  the  men  vied  with  one  another  in  giving  time  and 
money  for  the  spread  of  the  Gospel.  This  mission  to  the 
north-west  was  brought  to  a  close  by  some  very  remarkable 
manifestations  of  Divine  power  in  the  meetings  held  at 
Sianfu,  where  backsliders  were  restored  and  many  others 
were  led  to  Christ. 

Immediately  after  this  mission  the  whole  Chinese  Empire 
was  convulsed  with  the  revolution,  and  the  holding  of 
further  meetings  became  impracticable.  The  minds  of  the 
Christians  became  so  absorbed  with  the  political  situation, 
and  with  their  own  personal  safety,  that  the  revival  move 
ment  largely  ceased.  It  should  be  mentioned,  however, 
that  Mr.  Goforth  had  been  holding  similar  missions  in  other 
parts  of  China,  and  some  of  the  men  who  received  blessing 
through  his  ministry  have  continued  to  be  used  of  God 
ever  since.  Among  these  we  may  mention  Evangelist 
Hsieh  of  Anhwei.  Mr.  Hsieh  had  been  blessed  through  one 
of  Mr.  Goforth's  missions  in  Honan,  and  on  returning  to  his 
own  province  he  conducted  similar  meetings  at  Anking, 
Ningkwofu,  and  other  centres.  His  testimony  was  so 
blessed  that  he  was  invited  to  hold  meetings  among  the 
Churches  of  Kiangsu,  Honan,  and  Shansi,  where  his  ministry 
has  been  much  appreciated.  His  special  work  has  been 
to  stir  up  the  Churches  to  more  aggressive  witnessing  for 


MASS  MOVEMENTS  AND  REVIVAL        273 

Christ,  and  to  a  fuller  realization  of  their  responsibility 
towards  self-support.  Dr.  Yao  has  had  a  similar  ministry 
in  the  province  of  Kiangsi. 

Some  years  have  passed  since  this  revival  movement 
was  at  its  height,  and  though  the  emotional  manifestations 
have  passed  away,  and  time  has  even  proved  that  some 
who  were  most  subject  to  emotion  were  the  least  stable,  yet 
the  work  of  grace  of  that  period  has  left  a  lasting  mark  upon 
the  work  of  God.  The  tide  of  worldliness  within  the  Church 
was  stemmed  ;  elements  of  strain,  which  had  arisen  in 
certain  stations  between  the  foreign  and  Chinese  workers, 
were  relieved,  and  the  standard  of  holiness  was  raised.  In 
short,  the  Church  in  China  was,  as  it  were,  born  again,  and 
brought  to  a  realization  of  her  place  in  the  Body  of  Christ. 

It  is  worthy  of  special  note  that  this  same  period  of 
blessing  was  marked  by  the  inauguration  of  that  anti-opium 
campaign  in  China,  and  of  the  British  Government's  policy 
of  gradual  suppression  of  sale  in  India,  which  have  led  to 
the  final  cessation  of  the  Indo-China  opium  traffic.  It  is 
significant  that  a  week  of  prayer  for  China,  held  in  Great 
Britain,  preceded  the  Government's  resolution  of  May  30, 
1906,  to  co-operate  with  China  in  the  suppression  of  that 
trade,  and  that  another  even  more  memorable  day  of 
prayer,  Sunday,  April  27,  1913,  appointed  by  the  Chinese 
Government,  preceded  the  British  Government's  decision, 
announced  on  May  7,  1913,  to  finally  relinquish  the  evil 
trade.  Surely  the  synchronizing  of  such  moral  and  spiritual 
movements  mark  this  period  as  an  eventful  one  in  China's 
history. 


XLII 
GRACE  ABOUNDING 

ONE  of  the  outstanding  features  of  the  spiritual  awakening 
in  China,  mentioned  in  the  previous  chapter,  was  the  turning 
to  God  of  thousands  of  the  much-despised  and  oppressed 
hill -tribes  of  the  south-west  provinces.  In  an  earlier 
chapter  1  the  story  of  suffering  and  persecution  in  the  region 
of  Panghai  has  been  told.  It  is  now  our  pleasant  task  to 
relate  something  of  the  striking  triumphs  of  the  Gospel 
amongst  these  people  in  other  districts. 

Three  days  to  the  south-west  of  Kweiyang,  the  capital  of 
Kweichow,  is  the  city  of  Anshunfu.  All  around  this  city, 
even  to  within  two  or  three  miles  of  its  walls,  are  villages 
inhabited  by  the  Flowery  Miao.  Two  days  to  the  north 
begin  the  estates  and  residences  of  their  Nosu  landlords, 
which  stretch  away  throughout  the  150  miles  of  hill  country, 
until  the  neighbouring  province  of  Yunnan  is  reached. 

In  the  year  1888  Mr.  J.  R.  Adam,  just  one  year  after  his 
arrival  in  China,  settled  in  Anshunfu,  where  Mr.  Windsor 
had  already  rented  premises.  Considerable  opposition  was 
experienced  at  first,  and  Mr.  Adam,  who  was  left  alone  after 
Mr.  Windsor's  removal  to  the  capital,  was  temporarily 
driven  from  the  city.  A  settlement  was,  however,  subse 
quently  gained,  and  the  outlying  cities  were  visited,  but 
not  without  experiencing  considerable  and  sometimes 
violent  hostility.  As  early  as  1889  Mr.  Adam's  attention 
was  drawn  to  the  picturesque  tribes-people,  clad  in  their 
many-coloured  dress.  Work  was  commenced  among  them, 

i  See  Chapter  XXXVI.  p.  237. 

274 


GRACE  ABOUNDING  275 

though  up  to  the  time  of  his  first  furlough  in  1896  none 
were  baptized. 

Upon  returning  from  his  furlough  this  work  was  resumed, 
and  in  1898  the  first  candidates  for  baptism  were  enrolled. 
In  the  following  year  the  first  Miao  chapel  was  built  in  a 
village  distant  about  two  miles  from  the  city,  and  by  the 
beginning  of  1900  crowds  of  these  interesting  people  were 
regularly  visiting  the  mission  station.  When  the  Boxer 
outbreak  compelled  the  workers  to  retire  from  the  interior, 
it  was  estimated  that  visitors  from  the  Flowery  and  Water 
Miao  represented  as  many  as  250  villages  and  hamlets. 
Though  many  of  the  young  enquirers  fell  away  during 
this  period  of  persecution,  a  few  tens  of  the  Flowery  Miao 
held  on  faithfully,  and  in  1902  some  twenty  of  them  were 
baptized. 

With  the  resumption  of  the  work,  after  the  Boxer  crisis, 
a  new  stage  was  reached.  The  first  chapel,  mentioned 
above,  was  closed,  as  a  more  hopeful  work  was  opening  up 
some  twenty  miles  farther  north  among  the  Water  Miao 
(Shiu-hsi  Miao).  For  a  long  time  no  Miao  had  been  willing 
to  take  the  foreigner  across  the  river  which  separated  the 
territory  of  the  Water  Miao  from  the  Flowery  Miao,  it  being 
believed  that  the  Chinese  would  kill  them  if  they  did  so. 
One  of  the  greatest  obstacles  to  work  among  these  tribes 
from  the  first  was  the  Chinese  fear  of  rebellion,  and  the 
missionary's  activities  among  them  were  frequently  re 
garded  with  the  greatest  suspicion,  and  became  in  some 
cases  causes  of  persecution.  At  length,  however,  Mr.  Adam 
secured  an  introduction  to  the  tribes  beyond  the  river 
through  the  Flowery  Miao  evangelist.  This  visit  was 
greatly  prospered  of  God,  and  the  people  began  at  once  to 
visit  the  city  for  Christian  worship.  From  village  to  village 
interest  in  the  Gospel  spread  with  great  rapidity,  and  ere 
long  scores  of  villages  were  represented  in  the  city  congrega 
tion.  The  response  to  the  Gospel  was  remarkable,  and 
the  people  committed  wholesale  to  the  flames  their  charms, 
sorcerer's  wands,  "  spirit  packets,"  and  other  paraphernalia 
used  in  demon  worship. 

In  1903  a  company  of  hunters  belonging  to  the  Great 


276  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

Flowery  Miao,  a  people  distinguished  by  their  horn-like 
head-dress,  came  into  contact  with  Mr.  Adam  when  they 
were  returning  from  a  boar  hunt.  From  him  they  heard 
the  Gospel,  and  carried  back  the  glad  tidings  to  their  tribe. 
Within  three  years  from  this  date  they  had  built  their  own 
chapel  at  Lanlungchiao,  three  days  north  of  Anshunfu,  and 
had  a  Church  of  250  baptized  communicants,  with  hundreds 
of  interested  enquirers. 

Meanwhile,  these  same  people  had  carried  the  Message 
of  Salvation  to  their  old  home,  six  days  farther  west,  whence 
they  had  emigrated  twenty  years  before.  Here,  in  the 
Weining  district,  more  than  forty  thousand  of  their  kinsfolk 
were  living,  and  this  more  distant  tribe,  not  content  with 
second-hand  reports,  sent  two  deputations  to  Anshunfu  to 
investigate  the  truth  personally,  but  not  before  they  had 
learned  the  Lord's  Prayer,  the  Ten  Commandments,  a 
number  of  hymns,  and  many  facts  about  the  work  and  life 
of  Christ. 

One  member  of  the  second  deputation,  a  man  who 
adopted  at  his  baptism  the  name  of  Paul,  returned  to  his 
village  of  Kopu  and  started  Divine  Worship  in  his  own  home. 
Every  Lord's  Day  he  gathered  a  company  of  some  two 
hundred  people  into  his  house  for  prayer  and  praise,  and 
the  reading  of  God's  Word,  and  Kopu  soon  became  the  chief 
centre  of  a  great  work  throughout  that  district.  As  the 
news  spread,  companies  of  twenty,  forty,  and  fifty  tribesmen 
would  come  down  to  the  mission  house  at  Anshunfu,  all 
eager  for  instruction,  until  at  times  as  many  as  three  hundred 
were  being  entertained  together. 

Through  these  enquirers  Mr.  Adam  ascertained  that 
the  homes  of  some  of  them  were  not  far  from  Chaotung,  in 
the  neighbouring  province  of  Yunnan.  As  the  United 
Methodists  had  a  station  there,  it  seemed  desirable  that 
these  enquirers  should  be  put  in  touch  with  that  station, 
and  thus  be  saved  the  nine  or  ten  days'  journey  over 
difficult  mountain  country.  A  letter  of  introduction  to  the 
Rev.  S.  Pollard  was  therefore  given  to  them,  and  these 
seekers  after  Christ  were,  as  all  who  know  Mr.  Pollard  will 
believe,  received  with  open  arms  and  heart.  Ere  long  Mr. 


GRACE  ABOUNDING  277 

Pollard  found  himself  well-nigh  overwhelmed  with  crowds 
of  earnest  enquirers,  and  thus  it  was  that  the  glorious  work 
of  grace  swept  across  from  Kweichow  into  the  neighbouring 
province. 

The  limits  of  this  chapter  and  the  scope  of  this  book 
will  not  allow  of  any  details  concerning  the  great  work  Mr. 
Pollard  was  permitted  to  see  and  engage  in.  With  a  whole 
hearted  devotion,  which,  on  one  occasion  at  least,  very  nearly 
cost  him  his  life,  he  espoused  the  spiritual  interests  of  these 
people,  and  to-day  he  and  his  fellow- workers  are  rejoicing  in 
a  Church  of  more  than  four  thousand  aborigines  who  have 
publicly  confessed  Christ  by  baptism,  together  with  some 
seven  thousand  others  enrolled  as  candidates  or  enquirers. 

But  the  wave  of  blessing  did  not  stop  here,  but  swept 
on  another  150  miles  to  the  south-west,  to  come  again  into 
touch  with  the  C.I.M.  Some  seventy  or  eighty  years  earlier 
there  had  been  a  migration  of  Miao  from  the  Chaotung 
district  down  towards  Wutingchow,  some  two  or  three  days' 
journey  north  of  the  capital  of  the  province,  and  intercourse 
between  these  two  districts  had  been  maintained  throughout. 
Early  in  1906  some  of  the  Christian  Miao  from  Chaotung, 
when  visiting  their  relatives  at  Sapushan,  north  of  Wuting 
chow,  saw  two  men  afflicted  with  leprosy,  whom  they  advised 
to  come  over  and  see  the  Chaotung  doctor — Dr.  Savin. 
This  they  did,  and  at  the  same  time  came  into  touch  with 
Mr.  Pollard,  who  at  once  put  himself  into  communication 
with  the  C.I.M.  workers  in  Yunnan.  The  result  was  that 
Mr.  Arthur  G.  Nicholls  was  appointed  to  this  work,  and  after 
a  helpful  time  of  study  of  the  language  and  of  the  people, 
in  company  with  Mr.  Pollard,  he  took  up  residence  among 
the  tribes  at  Sapushan  in  October  1906.  From  this  time 
onward  the  closest  bond  between  the  work  and  workers  at 
Chaotung  and  at  Sapushan  has  been  maintained,  in  fact,  it 
should  be  mentioned  that  when  Mr.  Nicholls  left  to  start 
his  work,  the  Chaotung  Church  appointed  four  evangelists 
to  accompany  him,  these  men  to  be  that  Church's  repre 
sentatives. 

As  at  Anshunfu  and  at  Chaotung,  so  now  at  Sapushan,  the 
Good  News  of  Salvation  spread  like  a  prairie  fire  from 


278  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

village  to  village.  Idolatry  and  wine-drinking  were  put 
away,  the  brothels  were  closed,  opium  pipes  were  smashed, 
and  charms  of  all  descriptions  were  discouraged.  From  the 
commencement  services  were  held  every  evening  as  well  as 
on  Sunday,  and  ere  long  chapels  were  built,  thatched  with 
the  grass  cut  from  the  hillsides,  which  chapels  were  erected 
by  the  tribes  themselves.  Sapushan,  which  is  situated  some 
1500  ft.  above  the  valley,  and  about  8500  ft.  above  the 
level  of  the  sea,  soon  became  an  important  centre  for  work 
among  the  many  tribes  living  in  the  hills  around. 

In  1907  the  Lesu  tribe  were  brought  under  the  sound  of 
the  Gospel  through  the  influence  of  the  Miao  living  to  the 
north.  In  1908  the  Laka  tribe  heard  the  Good  News  through 
the  instrumentality  of  these  Lesu,  and  they,  too,  claimed 
recognition.  Among  both  these  tribes  the  work  has  grown, 
until  now  services  are  held  in  from  fifty  to  a  hundred  villages 
among  each  tribe,  while  hundreds  of  families  are  showing 
more  or  less  interest  in  the  Gospel. 

In  1910  another  tribe,  the  Kopu  as  they  call  themselves, 
or  the  Kang-e,  as  the  Chinese  designate  them,  came  under 
the  influence  of  the  same  movement  through  the  instru 
mentality  of  some  Miao  living  to  the  east.  Later  on  a 
number  of  Nosu  came  forward  as  enquirers,  and  more 
recently  work  has  commenced  among  the  Red-e,  the  White 
Miao,  the  Shans,  and  Chungkia. 

In  rapidly  sketching  the  spread  of  this  remarkable 
religious  awakening  from  its  beginning  in  Kweichow,  first 
at  Anshunfu,  then  at  Chaotung,  and  finally  at  Sapushan,  we 
have  not  attempted  to  give  details  concerning  the  work 
itself.  In  Kweichow  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Adam  were  for  the 
greater  part  of  the  time  single-handed,  so  far  as  foreign  help 
was  concerned,  but  more  recently  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Fish  have 
gone  to  take  charge  of  a  hospital  specially  built  for  work 
among  the  tribes,  while  several  German  women  associates 
of  the  C.I.M.  have  been  designated  for  service  among  these 
people.  In  Yunnan  Mr.  Nicholls,  who  lost  his  wife  in  1903, 
has  had  as  colleagues  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Gladstone  Porteous, 
Mr.  G.  E.  Metcalf,  and  more  recently  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Gowman. 

The  rapidity  with  which  the  work  has  grown  in  recent 


GRACE  ABOUNDING  279 

years  is  most  remarkable.  Up  to  the  close  of  1905  less  than 
300  persons  had  been  baptized,  whereas,  in  1906  alone  no 
fewer  than  1480  persons  were  publicly  received  into  the 
Church.  Mr.  Curtis  Waters,  who  temporarily  took  charge 
of  the  work  at  Anshunfu  during  Mr.  Adam's  furlough,  when 
questioned  as  to  the  wisdom  of  receiving  so  many  candidates 
at  once,  replied  : 

I  could  no  more  have  held  back  than  the  Apostle,  who  said,  "  Can 
any  man  forbid  water,  that  these  should  not  be  baptized  ?  "  The 
work  is  manifestly  the  work  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  The  utter  impossi 
bility  of  any  man  teaching  all  these  people  attests  it.  With  an  un 
questioning  faith  they  simply  accept  the  Gospel  teaching,  which 
becomes  real  to  them,  and  God,  who  has  hidden  these  things  from  the 
wise  and  prudent,  has  revealed  them  unto  babes. 

The  passage  of  years  has  confirmed  the  view  then  taken, 
for  of  the  more  than  five  thousand  persons  baptized  in  the 
Anshunfu  district  during  recent  years,  less  than  i  per  cent 
have  been  known  to  fall  away.  As  already  mentioned, 
more  than  four  thousand  have  been  received  into  the  Church 
in  the  Chaotung  district,  and  though  at  Sapushan  the  numbers 
have  not  been  so  large,  the  total  baptisms  being  somewhat 
less  than  a  thousand,  there  are  many  enquirers  and  large 
numbers  waiting  to  be  received. 

These  tribes  are  wholly  illiterate,  though  traces  of  some 
crude  hieroglyphics  formerly  used  by  them  are  still  to  be 
found  here  and  there ;  but  the  people  have  manifested  an 
astonishing  eagerness  to  learn,  and  from  the  first  efforts 
have  been  made  to  give  them  the  Scriptures  in  their  own 
tongue.  In  Kweichow,  Mr.  Adam  has  made  use  of  the 
ordinary  romanized  system ;  but  in  Yunnan,  both  at 
Chaotung  and  at  Sapushan,  a  special  script  prepared  by 
Mr.  Pollard  has  been  adopted,  which  script  has  been  found 
admirably  suited  to  the  needs  of  the  various  tribes. 

The  transformation  which  has  come  over  the  lives  of 
these  people  is  nothing  less  than  a  miracle  of  grace.  Twenty 
years  ago  they  were  living  in  the  grossest  state  of  immorality 
and  superstition.  So  low  had  they  sunk  that  their  generally 
accepted  customs  cannot  be  described,  yet  to-day  thousands 
upon  thousands  of  them  have  been  "  washed,  sanctified  and 


280  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

justified  in  the  Name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  and  in  the  Spirit  of 
our  God."  The  hills  which  formerly  were  familiar  with 
scenes  of  shame  now  resound  with  the  praises  of  God. 

The  Bible,  too,  has  become  a  household  Book,  and 
Scripture  names  have  been  adopted  by  all  Church  members. 
Formerly  they  possessed  only  the  sur-  or  family-name,  the 
different  members  of  a  family  being  distinguished  by 
numerals.  Now  at  baptism  a  levy  is  made  upon  the  pages 
of  the  Old  and  New  Testaments.  The  names  of  apostles 
and  prophets,  of  priests  and  princes,  of  ancient  men  and 
women  of  renown  have  all  become  familiar.  To  find  names 
for  hundreds  of  candidates  is  alone  no  easy  task.  It  is 
possible  to  have  too  many  Marks  and  Johns,  or  Marthas  and 
Marys,  so  there  are  Naomis  and  Rebeccas,  Priscillas  and 
Tryphenas,  Asas  and  Jehosophats,  Boazes  and  Salmons, 
Sosthenes  and  Alexanders.  And  what  is  more,  each  recipient 
of  a  new  name  always  wants  to  know  the  history  of  his  or  her 
namesake,  and  so  the  Bible  characters  and  stories  soon 
become  topics  of  daily  conversation. 

Two  rules  enforced  in  regard  to  baptism  show  how  truly 
these  people  desire  to  manifest  a  real  repentance,  while  at 
the  same  time  they  throw  a  striking  light  upon  their  previous 
manners  of  life.  No  candidate  is  received  unless  he  or  she 
promises  neither  to  make,  sell,  nor  use  whisky,  which  drink 
in  the  past  has  been  their  curse.  This  rule  not  only  com 
mends  itself  to  the  missionaries,  but  also  to  the  conscience 
of  the  Miao  believers.  No  one  ever  thinks  of  questioning 
the  wisdom  of  such  a  regulation.  The  other  rule,  which 
may  seem  strange  to  the  reader  unfamiliar  with  the  in 
describable  conditions  of  their  former  state,  is  that  no  young 
unmarried  person  shall  be  baptized.  It  is  possible  that  in 
the  process  of  years,  when  the  influence  of  Christian  homes 
has  had  time  to  make  itself  felt,  this  rule  may  be  relaxed, 
but  meanwhile,  the  wisdom  of  it  is  not  questioned  by  those 
qualified  to  judge. 

One  of  the  most  noteworthy  features  of  all  this  work  has 
been  the  way  it  has  spread  with  very  little  assistance  on  the 
part  of  foreign  workers.  The  few  who  have  laboured  among 
these  people  have,  it  is  true,  been  "  in  labours  more  abund- 


GRACE  ABOUNDING  281 

ant,"  but  only  the  abounding  grace  of  God  and  the  missionary 
efforts  of  the  people  themselves  can  explain  the  rapid  and 
remarkable  spread  of  the  Gospel  among  this  scattered  and 
hitherto  down -trodden  people.  From  persecution  they 
have  by  no  means  been  exempted,  but  they  have  bravely 
and  nobly  endured  in  times  of  adversity. 

This  picturesque  people,  dressed  in  their  multi-coloured 
garments  and  adorned  with  conspicuous  brass  ornaments, 
have  shown  an  astonishing  eagerness  to  read  the  Word  of 
God  and  sing  His  praise.  In  reading  they  can  easily  weary 
the  most  assiduous  of  teachers,  and  as  for  singing,  they  are 
never  tired  of  it.  Before  their  meetings,  the  time  of  waiting 
is  spent  in  singing,  and  afterwards,  as  they  gather  around 
their  camp-fires  in  the  guest  homes,  or  in  the  open  air,  they 
continue  singing  the  songs  of  Zion  far  on  into  the  night. 

In  receiving  candidates  for  baptism,  the  missionary's 
difficulty  has  been,  not  how  many  to  receive,  but  how  few. 
Whole  villages  are  nominally  and  practically  Christian, 
yet  each  individual  has  to  give  a  reason  for  the  hope  that  is 
in  him.  Already  more  than  ten  thousand  of  these  tribes- 
people  have  been  baptized,  while  tens  of  thousands  are 
pressing  forward  in  their  desire  for  Church  recognition.  If 
the  mission  of  Christ  was  to  seek  and  to  save  the  lost,  and  if 
the  proof  of  His  Messiahship  was  that  the  poor  had  the 
Gospel  preached  unto  them,  then  the  uplifting  of  this  poor 
and  fallen  people  is  a  present-day  evidence  of  the  love  of  the 
Son  of  Man  and  of  the  power  of  His  Gospel  to  save. 


XLIII 
TO  EARTH'S  REMOTEST  BOUNDS 

THE  Love  of  God  which  has  encompassed  the  despised 
hill -tribes  of  China,  has  not  excluded  the  even  more  in 
accessible  inhabitants  of  closed  Tibet,  or  the  mixed  popula 
tions  of  Chinese  Turkestan.  As  God  so  loved  the  world, 
that  whosoever  believeth  in  Him  should  not  perish,  but 
have  everlasting  life,  the  messengers  of  the  Cross  can  put  no 
limit  to  their  field  of  service.  The  high  snow-clad  mountains 
of  Tibet,  or  the  arid  wastes  of  Sinkiang,  beckon  him  on,  if 
so  be  that  any  son  of  man  has  made  such  places  his  habitation. 
No  sooner  had  the  way  opened  to  inland  China  in  1876 
than  Dr.  Cameron,  one  of  the  early  band  of  pioneers,  when 
travelling  west,  visited  the  Tibetan  Border,  penetrating  as 
far  as  Batang,  some  thirty  days  west  of  Chengtu.  What  this 
journey  meant  to  him,  and  to  others  who  followed  him — 
some  of  whom  were  women — can  be  gathered  from  the 
following  words  of  Mr.  Huston  Edgar  : 

The  journey  from  Tatsienlu  to  Batang  is  no  holiday  excursion. 
Rising  on  a  ladder  from  the  former  town,  which  is  about  nine  thousand 
feet  above  sea-level,  the  traveller  on  the  second  day  finds  himself  on 
the  high  grasslands,  which  are  a  distinct  feature  of  the  higher  regions 
of  Central  Asia.  This  journey  to  Batang,  covering  nearly  400  miles 
of  such  country,  is  perhaps  the  most  arduous  in  the  world.  The  simple 
fact  that  twelve  passes — the  lowest  14,500  feet  and  the  highest  17,000 
feet — must  be  crossed,  may  be  excelled  in  some  parts  of  the  world  ;  but 
the  claim  of  unsurpassed  difficulty  may  be  excused  by  the  following 
relatively  correct  observation.  In  the  nearly  400  miles  traversed, 
the  traveller  will  find  180  miles  over  13,000  feet,  120  miles  somewhere 
between  14,000  and  17,000,  and  of  the  remaining  80  miles  only  a  paltry 

282 


TO  EARTH'S  REMOTEST  BOUNDS  283 

30  miles  below  10,000  feet.  In  addition  to  this  altitude  must  be  added 
the  inadequate  means  of  transport,  the  insanitary  and  unsuitable 
accommodation,  and  the  absence  of  centres  where  suitable  provisions 
may  be  bought. 

Over  this  arduous  country  Dr.  Cameron  travelled  in 
1877.  Eleven  years  later  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Cecil  Polhill,  with 
a  view  to  Tibetan  work,  settled  at  Siningfu,  an  important 
city  on  the  borders  of  Kokonor.  Here  the  study  of  the 
Tibetan  language  was  commenced,  with  the  assistance  of  an 
old  Mongol,  who  had  been  companion  to  Messieurs  Hue 
and  Gabet  at  Lhasa.  Friendly  intercourse  was  soon  obtained 
with  a  learned  Buddhist  abbot,  living  in  a  monastery  four 
days  distant,  and  through  him  special  facilities  for  the  study 
of  the  language  and  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  were 
obtained.  After  a  residence  of  five  months  in  a  Tibetan 
village,  the  last  village  before  tent  habitation  was  reached, 
Mr.  Polhill  moved  with  his  family  to  Sungpan,  from  which 
place,  however,  they  were  ejected  after  a  serious  riot.  It 
deserves  to  be  mentioned  that  one  of  his  Christian  helpers 
and  a  servant  patiently  endured  a  terrible  beating  by  the 
official,  in  order  that  the  mob  might  be  appeased,  and  the 
Polhills  allowed  to  escape. 

When  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Polhill  afterwards  expressed  their 
horror  and  indignation  at  the  truly  frightful  treatment  these 
men  had  received,  their  helper  Wang  only  said  : 

Oh,  it  was  nothing ;  it  was  for  Jesu's  sake. 

Bishop  Cassels,  writing  of  this  man,  said  : 

"  I  was  immensely  struck  with  his  behaviour.  There  was  no  word 
of  complaint  against  the  magistrate  who  had  beaten  him  so  terribly ; 
on  the  contrary,  he  praised  him  saying  he  had  done  his  best  to  allay 
the  riot.  .  .  .  He  said  his  heart  was  full  of  peace  as  he  stood  upon  the 
bank  of  the  river,  bound  hand  and  foot,  and  expecting  every  moment 
to  be  thrown  in.  He  had  just  one  regret.  He  regretted  that  he  had 
not  yet  confessed  Christ  in  baptism,  fearing  that  perhaps  Christ  would 
not  confess  him  as  His  disciple.  I  assured  him,"  wrote  the  Bishop, 
"  that  he  had  passed  through  a  baptism  of  fire." 

Such  are  some  of  the  men,  whose  names  are  unknown, 


284  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

without  whom  the  missionaries  would  have  been  practically 
helpless. 

Meanwhile,  Miss  Annie  Taylor,  in  September  1892,  left 
Taochow  in  Kansu,  which  city  she  had  opened  the  previous 
year,  accompanied  by  a  faithful  Tibetan  servant.  She 
crossed  the  Yellow  River,  and  passed  through  the  Robber 
Golck  country  and  entered  the  Lhasa  territory  on  the  last 
day  of  1892.  On  January  7  of  the  following  year  she  was 
met  by  an  official  who  prevented  her  from  going  further 
towards  Lhasa,  and  after  a  journey  full  of  privations  from 
cold,  lack  of  food,  and  robbers,  she  reached  Tatsienlu  in 
April. 

In  1897  Tatsienlu  was  finally  opened  as  a  centre  for 
Tibetan  work  by  Mr.  Polhill,  who  had  reached  China  after 
his  furlough  in  England,  accompanied  by  Messrs.  Moyes, 
Soutter,  Johanson,  and  Amundsen,  as  welcome  reinforce 
ments.  In  this  important  border  town  there  are  no  less 
than  forty  inns  for  Tibetans,  and  in  these  work  was  system 
atically  commenced.  From  this  base  journeys  were  taken 
to  the  north,  west,  and  south-west,  and  two  of  the  early 
workers  laid  down  their  lives  in  this  arduous  toil.  These 
were  Mr.  Soutter,  whose  grave  now  lies  at  the  foot  of  the 
great  snow-giant  Mount  Neuda,  on  the  weird  plateau  of 
Sampa,  70  miles  east  of  Batang  ;  and  Mr.  Radford,  who 
died  of  fever  when  seeking  to  reopen  the  Tibetan  work 
after  the  Boxer  crisis. 

Tatsienlu,  after  a  preliminary  visit  by  Mr.  Edgar  in  1902 
was  reopened  in  the  following  year,  and  the  changed 
conditions  which  followed  the  Boxer  crisis  were  made  evident 
by  the  number  of  persons  who  desired  to  be  enrolled  as 
enquirers.  From  among  these,  four,  the  first-fruits  of  Christ 
in  these  Tibetan  Marches,  were  baptized  on  May  14,  1904, 
eight  more  being  baptized  during  the  following  year.  Mr. 
Sorenson,  who  first  joined  the  work  at  this  station  at  the 
beginning  of  1900,  subsequently  took  charge,  and  has 
remained  there  to  the  present  time. 

Batang,  which  was,  as  already  mentioned,  first  visited 
by  Dr.  Cameron  in  1877,  was  also  visited  by  Mr.  Polhill  and 
others  in  1898,  and  again  by  Mr.  Edgar  in  1903,  when  this 


TO  EARTH'S  REMOTEST  BOUNDS  285 

town  and  district  were  probably  seen  for  the  last  time  under 
the  Lamas  and  independent  princes,  for  under  the  Chinese 
policy  of  subjecting  these  regions,  these  princes  were  executed 
as  rebels  in  1905  by  the  Chinese  Imperial  High  Commissioner, 
H.E.  Chao  Ri-feng.  The  preliminary  and  itinerary  period 
of  work  at  Batang  may  be  said  to  have  ended  with  a  visit 
of  Dr.  Shelton  and  Mr.  Ogden  of  the  Foreign  Missionary 
Society  in  1906,  and  with  another  visit  a  year  later  by 
Messrs.  Edgar  and  Muir,  who  returned  to  Litang  via  Siang- 
cheng  and  Taopa,  districts  hitherto  closed  to  Chinese. 

Settled  work  in  this  station  was  commenced  by  the 
arrival  at  Batang  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Muir  on  July  18,  1908, 
Mrs.  Muir  being  the  first  foreign  woman  to  visit  the 
place.  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Shelton,  however,  with  two  children 
followed  close  upon  their  heels,  for  they  reached  this 
distant  outpost  of  missions  only  a  week  later,  and  were 
followed  by  further  reinforcements  in  October.  Mr.  Edgar 
joined  these  friends  during  the  next  year,  and  Mrs.  Edgar 
in  June  1910. 

Work,  however,  was  not  long  to  be  continued,  for  the 
Revolution  which  broke  out  in  the  early  winter  of  1911  so 
thoroughly  disorganized  all  traffic  and  postal  communications 
that  the  missionaries  and  Chinese  workers  were  forced  to 
retire  towards  the  Yunnan  border.  On  this  occasion  the 
journey  from  Yenching  to  Weihsi  was  through  the  desperate 
gorges  of  the  Mekong  ;  and  it  may  be  of  interest  as  showing 
the  difficulty  of  working  these  almost  inaccessible  regions 
to  say  that  a  letter  written  at  Batang  on  the  evening  of 
October  12,  reached  Shanghai,  via  Lhasa,  Darjeeling,  and 
Calcutta,  sooner  than  the  travellers  reached  the  coast  them 
selves.  Batang  has  not  again  been  opened,  but  work 
continues  at  Tatsienlu,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Edgar  have  recently 
joined  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Coates  at  Weiku,  another  frontier  station 
farther  north.  A  noteworthy  opening  has  also  presented 
itself  at  Dawo,  which  is  six  days'  journey  on  the  northern 
road  to  Tibet  from  Tatsienlu. 

The  three  years  of  missionary  occupation  of  Batang 
were  by  no  means  easy.  The  isolation,  the  sharing  for  a 
time  of  a  Tibetan  house,  and  especially  the  antagonism  of 


286  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

H.E.  Chao  to  British  missionaries,  all  combined  to  try  the 
workers  and  to  limit  their  usefulness.  Many  strenuous 
journeys,  however,  were  undertaken,  though  stringent 
Government  prohibitions  soon  closed  some  regions  formerly 
open.  In  1910  Mr.  Muir  reached  Chamdo,  via  the  Ningching 
mountains,  and  later,  accompanied  by  his  wife,  visited  Derge- 
Gonchen,  Kanze,  and  Dawo.  Mr.  Edgar  not  only  frequently 
visited  Litang,  the  highest  city  in  the  world,  where  he  found 
many  opportunities  for  work  among  the  Lamas  and  nomads  ; 
he  also  itinerated  between  Yenching  and  Atuntsu,  where 
abundant  opportunities  were  found  for  making  the  Gospel 
known.  The  settlements  in  the  lower  reaches  of  the  Chiangka 
river  were  visited  ;  and  in  June  1911  he  crossed  the  Mekong 
and  Salween  rivers  on  single  rope  bridges,  and  preached 
the  Gospel  and  distributed  literature  in  Menkong,  and 
about  two  months  later  was  well  received  in  the  district 
Lamasery  at  Derge-Gonchen,  as  well  as  in  many  centres 
en  route. 

These  few  words  absolutely  fail  to  convey  to  the  general 
reader  any  idea  of  the  toil  and  hardships  involved  in  such 
journeys.  Even  a  map  can  give  but  little  assistance.  The 
physical  conditions  of  the  country  and  the  moral  conditions 
of  the  people  need  to  be  understood  if  the  spiritual  and 
general  strain  upon  the  workers  is  to  be  appreciated.  But 
all  the  rigours  of  the  climate  and  the  exacting  effects  of 
high  altitudes  are  of  small  import  in  comparison  with  the 
perplexing  and  painful  political  and  social  conditions 
encountered.  One  or  two  short  paragraphs  from  Mr.  Edgar's 
little  book,  The  Marches  of  the  Mantze,1  must  suffice  to 
explain  what  these  are  : 

"  For  instance,  let  us  think  of  the  countless  officials  with  retinues 
who  live  in  these  regions  temporarily  without  Chinese  wives  ;  and  of 
the  merchants  scattered  here  and  there  for  whom  it  is  a  matter  of  policy 
to  take  concubines  temporarily.  This,  of  course,  implies  an  enormous 
amount  of  polygamy,  polyandry,  and  prostitution ;  for,  after  about 
three  years,  official,  soldier,  and  merchant  is  ready  to  return  to  China, 
where  a  '  barbarian '  wife  and  bastard  progeny  would  hardly  har 
monize.  The  woman  in  such  cases,  without  hesitation,  forms  a  new 


1  By  J.  Huston  Edgar :  Morgan  &  Scott,  Ltd.,  is.  6d.  net. 


TO  EARTH'S  REMOTEST  BOUNDS  287 

alliance,  and  the  children  as  often  as  not  become  Lamas.  China  does 
not  see  it,  but  this  is  the  Achilles'  heel  which  will  hamper  her  plans  to 
the  end. 

"  Men  have  gone/'  writes  Mr.  Edgar,  "  to  regions  more  isolated, 
more  unhealthy,  and  more  devoid  of  the  ordinary  comforts  of  life,  but 
seldom  have  men  had  to  face  such  complicated  ethnological  problems 
as  here  abound.  Briefly,  religion,  morality,  and  politics  will  all  hamper 
the  missionary  just  when  success  seems  imminent.  The  Tibetan 
priest,  partly  from  policy,  partly  from  belief,  abhors  apostasy ;  and 
converts  to  Christianity  from  lay  or  priestly  ranks  will  find  themselves 
little  better  than  social  outcasts,  with  their  lives  often  in  danger. 
Again,  the  time  may  come  when  the  temporary  or  secondary  wives 
of  officials,  soldiers,  and  traders  may  wish  to  enter  the  Church  ;  or  the 
nomad  woman  with  two  or  more  consorts  may  make  a  similar  applica 
tion.  In  all  such  cases  how  must  the  missionary  act  or  advise  ?  " 

With  these  all  too  brief  extracts  we  must  leave  this 
difficult  yet  fascinating  region,  to  follow  the  story  of  courage 
ous  toil  in  other  fields. 

From  the  snow-clad  hills  of  Tibet,  we  pass  to  the  arid 
plains  of  Sinkiang,  otherwise  known  as  Chinese  Turkestan. 
This  vast  territory,  extending  over  some  noo  miles  from 
east  to  west,  and  for  nearly  600  miles  from  north  to  south, 
is  an  area  approximately  equal  to  that  of  the  German  Empire 
with  France  and  Spain  combined.  Yet  in  all  this  region 
there  was  no  Protestant  missionary  prior  to  1905,  with  the 
exception  of  the  two  mission  stations  of  Yarkand  and 
Kashgar  on  the  Russian  frontier,  worked  by  Swedish 
missionaries.  Sinkiang  may  be  roughly  described  as  an 
immense  desert,  for  the  most  part  sandy  and  barren,  sur 
rounded  by  lofty  mountains.  Its  sand-buried  cities  and 
dried-up  rivers,  while  they  tell  of  prosperous  times  in  years 
gone  by,  give  evidence  of  those  climatic  changes  which,  in 
part  at  least,  have  caused  the  desiccation  of  great  areas  of 
Central  Asia.  Its  population,  probably  extending  to  some 
two  or  three  millions,  is  composed  of  Turkis,  Mongols, 
Chinese,  Manchus,  Sarts,  and  Hindoos.  Turki  is  the 
dialect  most  commonly  spoken,  though  Chinese,  Mongol, 
and  Tibetan  are  also  employed,  while  Mohammedanism  is 
the  prevailing  religion. 


288  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

In  the  year  1888  Mr.  George  Parker,  who  had  travelled 
extensively  in  Kansu  and  elsewhere  since  1876,  entered  this 
distant  province  of  Sinkiang,  Dr.  Lansdell  being  for  a  time 
his  companion  in  travel.  Scriptures  were  circulated  in  six 
different  languages,  and  his  journeys  extended  as  far  as 
Kuldja.  For  many  years,  however,  this  vast  country  was 
left  quite  untouched,  until  in  1905  Mr.  George  Hunter,  who 
had  Lanchow,  the  capital  of  Kansu,  for  his  base,  began  to 
itinerate  with  the  cities  of  Kami  and  Urumchi  as  his 
objective. 

In  1906  Mr.  Hunter  made  Urumchi,  the  capital,  other 
wise  known  as  Tihwa,  his  headquarters,  and  from  this  time 
he  has — with  brief  intervals  at  Tihwa  where  the  Mission 
has  had  premises  for  several  years — lived  a  life  of  almost 
incessant  travel,  that  he  might  carry  the  Gospel  to  the 
widely  scattered  and  needy  people  of  this  little-known 
region.  For  a  few  months  in  the  early  period  of  his  labour, 
he  had  the  fellowship  and  company  of  Mr.  Doring  of  the 
British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society,  whose  letters  published  in 
the  Report  of  the  Bible  Society's  China  Agency  were  full  of 
deepest  interest.  For  the  greater  part  of  ten  years,  however, 
Mr.  Hunter  has  been  alone,  and  with  indomitable  zeal  and 
pertinacity  has  laboured  on  in  face  of  discouragement  and 
hardships  of  no  common  order. 

Some  idea  of  his  isolation  may  be  gathered  from  the  fact 
that  his  station  at  Urumchi,  where  mission  premises  were 
definitely  secured  in  1908,  is  some  two  or  three  months' 
journey  from  Kashgar  on  the  one  hand  ;  two  months' 
journey  from  Lanchow,  the  nearest  station,  on  the  other, 
which  latter  city  is  again  more  than  two  months'  journey 
from  Hankow.  Thus  to  reach  his  nearest  neighbours  to 
the  east  or  west  would  necessitate  from  sixty  to  ninety  days' 
travelling. 

Perhaps  nothing  can  better  convey  to  the  reader  the 
nature  of  this  worker's  life  and  service  than  a  few  brief 
extracts  from  his  diary  : 

August  6,  1908. — Came  on  twenty-three  miles  to  Kuertong  where 
I  fed  my  mule  and  preached.  Thence  I  proceeded  another  thirty 
miles  to  Toktokeh,  the  first  stage  in  the  Chingho  district.  To-day  I 


TO  EARTH'S  REMOTEST  BOUNDS  289 

have  travelled  fifty-three  miles,  and  have  scarcely  met  any  one,  only 
passing  two  or  three  houses.  Sometimes  the  road  leads  through  high 
willow  grasses  which  form  almost  a  tunnel,  and  at  other  times  through 
a  forest  of  desert  poplars.  In  the  willow  grasses  there  are  millions  of 
mosquitoes.  Three  miles  from  this  place  the  sun  set,  and  I  was  con 
fronted  with  a  deep  sheet  of  water  when  passing  through  the  willow 
grass  tunnel.  There  was  no  alternative  but  to  push  on  into  the  water, 
not  knowing  its  depth.  It  gradually  became  a  rushing  stream,  and 
the  mule  stumbled  into  a  big  hole  and  fell.  I  entered  the  water,  and 
with  great  difficulty  rescued  the  mule  and  set  right  the  cart ;  but  the 
mosquitoes  were  cruelly  vicious,  and  as  I  had  to  employ  both  my 
hands  to  right  the  cart,  they  had  full  access  to  my  face,  which  felt  as 
though  it  were  scorched  with  fire.  To-night,  I  say  it  reverently,  I 
thanked  God  for  the  moon.  .  .  . 

August  14,  1908. — The  sun  was  setting,  when  about  four  hundred 
yards  in  front  of  me  a  man  on  horseback  galloped  out  of  one  of  the 
valleys  and  rode  up  a  very  steep  mount.  I  at  once  saw  by  his  action 
that  he  was  a  mounted  robber.  It  was  getting  dark,  and  we  were 
among  gorges  and  the  robber  was  soon  joined  by  others.  We  managed, 
however,  to  get  out  of  the  gorges  before  it  was  quite  dark,  and  favoured 
with  a  good  road  and  a  slight  incline,  we  were  thankful  to  leave  the 
robbers  behind.  We  could  scarcely  see  when  we  reached  the  inn, 
which  was  filled  with  carts  and  travellers.  In  spite  of  my  importunity 
they  refused  to  open  the  door,  and  the  camp  dog  rushed  at  me  and  I 
was  severely  bitten  on  the  arm.  Had  it  not  been  for  the  man  who  was 
with  me,  I  should  have  been  badly  torn  by  the  ferocious  brute.  After 
some  time,  I  found  an  inn  on  the  banks  of  the  lake,  and  the  breaking 
of  the  waves  on  the  shore  reminded  me  of  the  shores  of  my  own  sea 
girt  isle.  But  to-night  my  body  is  tired,  my  arm  is  sore  with  the  bite 
of  the  dog,  my  heart  seems  out  of  tune,  and  I  fear  my  prayers  do  not 
fully  harmonize  with  the  sound  of  the  waves  of  this  far-off  lake  so  as 
to  praise  the  Lord  of  heaven  and  earth  and  sea. 

August  7,  1910. — I  disposed  of  two  hundred  tracts,  and  preached 
in  the  streets  of  Karakash.  August  9.  Started  for  Saya,  where  I 
sold  a  few  books  on  the  bazaar  and  preached.  Thence  we  started  to 
Pialma,  but  the  darkness  overtook  us  thirteen  miles  from  our  destina 
tion,  and  we  completely  lost  our  way  in  the  desert.  I  tried  to  use  my 
compass,  but  could  not  get  a  light  because  of  the  wind.  We  wandered 
about  for  a  long  time,  until  there  was  nothing  for  it  but  to  lie  down 
and  try  to  rest,  hungry  and  especially  thirsty  as  we  were,  on  the  dry 
sands  of  the  Taklamakan.  I  tried  to  sleep,  but  could  not,  and  my 
thoughts  went  to  Dr.  Sven  Hedin's  men  who  perished  in  this  desert 
only  a  few  days'  march  south-east  of  this  very  place. 

U 


290  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

These  brief  extracts  must  suffice  to  indicate  the  trying 
nature  of  the  country  in  which  this  lonely  worker  has 
laboured  for  nearly  ten  years.  Probably  no  missionary  in 
the  world  is  more  isolated  than  he,  his  station  being  nearly 
a  thousand  miles,  as  the  crow  flies,  from  the  next  nearest 
mission  centre ;  while  his  journeys  so  cut  him  off  from  the 
outside  world  that  he  has  at  times  been  more  than  six  months 
without  letters  from  home.  Quite  recently  a  colleague,  Mr. 
Mather,  has  gone  to  join  him,  but  what  are  two  workers 
for  so  large  and  needy  a  sphere  ? 

Few  visitors  are  able  to  see  anything  of  the  work  and 
workers  in  this  far-off  mission-field  where,  as  with  Gilmour 
of  Mongolia,  little  fruit  appears  to  cheer  them.  The  testi 
mony  of  one  of  the  few  explorers,  however,  who  has 
traversed  this  country  deserves  to  be  quoted,  for  Dr. 
Morrison,  the  erstwhile  famous  Peking  Correspondent  of 
The  Times,  wrote  to  that  journal  in  1908  as  follows  : 

In  Urumchi  one  Englishman  has  made  his  home.  Mr.  G.  W. 
Hunter  of  the  China  Inland  Mission  is  one  of  the  most  widely  travelled 
men  in  the  province.  Of  fine  physique,  well  equipped  with  a  knowledge 
of  Chinese  and  Turki,  he  works  untiringly  as  an  evangelist  and  col 
porteur.  Already  he  has  visited  every  centre  in  the  new  Dominion. 
He  takes  rank  with  the  most  distinguished  and  tactful  pioneer  mission 
aries  sent  by  England  to  China.  His  work  deserves  the  special  support 
of  all  those  interested  in  mission  work. 


XLIV 
INSTITUTIONAL  WORK 

THE  reader  who  has  followed  the  story  thus  far  will  have 
recognized  that  much  more  has  been  said  about  expansion 
than  about  concentration.  This  has  not  been  because 
station  work  has  been  neglected,  but  because  the  evangeliza 
tion  of  the  unoccupied  provinces  had  been  regarded  as  the 
primary  duty.  From  the  first,  the  aim  of  the  Mission,  as 
defined  in  its  Principles  and  Practice,  has  been  : 

By  the  help  of  God  to  bring  the  Chinese  to  a  saving  knowledge  of 
the  love  of  God  in  Christ,  by  means  of  itinerant  and  localized  work 
throughout  the  whole  of  the  interior  of  China. 

Localized  work,  therefore,  has  from  the  beginning  been 
recognized  as  an  integral  part  of  the  Mission's  duty  ;  but  the 
growth  and  development  of  local  stations  has  been  more  the 
outcome  of  initial  evangelistic  labours  than  otherwise. 

While  fully  recognizing  that  generalizations  are  mis 
leading  if  pressed  too  far,  it  is  yet  true,  speaking  broadly, 
that  Institutional  work  with  the  C.I.M.  has  followed  and  not 
preceded  the  work  of  the  evangelist.  Thus,  Schools  have 
been  opened  more  with  a  view  to.  providing  the  Christian 
education  necessary  for  the  children  of  converts,  than  as  a 
means  of  influencing  the  children  of  heathen  parents.  In 
the  same  way  Secondary  Schools  and  Bible  Training  In 
stitutions  have  been  established  as  the  educational  needs 
and  the  growth  of  the  Christian  community  have  demanded, 
and  as  the  Church  has  called  for  better-trained  evangelists 
and  pastors.  On  the  other  hand,  however,  hospitals,  dis- 

291 


292  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

pensaries,  and  opium  refuges  have  been  employed  distinctly 
as  evangelistic  agencies,  and  have  been  found  invaluable 
auxiliaries  for  breaking  down  prejudice  and  for  opening 
closed  doors. 

School  work  dates  back  to  the  beginning  of  the  Mission. 
At  Hangchow,  shortly  after  the  arrival  of  the  Lammermuir 
party,  Miss  Faulding — subsequently  Mrs.  Hudson  Taylor— 
specially  devoted  herself  to  schools  for  boys  and  girls.  Early 
in  1868  she  reported  that  twelve  boys  had  been  "  bound  " 
to  the  school  for  a  period  of  five  years.1  By  the  close  of  the 
year  1870  she  had  27  scholars, — 19  boys  and  8  girls, — several 
of  whom  had  "  committed  to  memory  the  whole  of  the  New 
Testament,  with  the  exception  of  two  gospels."  What  was 
still  more  gratifying  was  that  several  had  been  received  into 
the  Church,  while  others  gave  evidence  of  change  of  heart. 

If  we  turn  from  Hangchow  to  other  stations,  we  find  the 
same  procedure  adopted.  In  Wenchow,  which  was  opened 
by  Mr.  Stott  in  1868,  the  Boarding  School  was  reported  as 
"  the  most  important  part  of  the  work  "  in  1870.  There 
were  then  twelve  boys  bound  to  the  school  for  a  term  of 
years,  and  from  that  time  onward  schools  had  an  honoured 
place  in  Wenchow.  It  would  be  interesting  and  instructive 
to  know  how  many  scholars  have  passed  through  the  schools 
of  this  one  station  alone,  for  the  last  report  speaks  of  69 
boarders  and  138  day  scholars.  Year  by  year  the  workers 
at  this  station,  and  many  others  which  cannot  even  be 
named,  have  had  the  joy  of  seeing  many  of  these  scholars 
confess  Christ  and  become  leaders  in  the  Church. 

Space,  unfortunately,  will  not  allow  the  story  of  school 
development  to  be  followed  in  detail.  Few  of  the  central 
stations  are  without  a  school,  and  not  a  few  of  the  out-stations 
have  schools  where  the  Chinese  Christians  have  shouldered 
a  larger  burden  of  responsibility  than  in  the  central  stations 
where  the  missionary  resides.  It  must  suffice  to  say  that 

1  In  the  early  days  the  Mission  made  itself  responsible  for  the  board 
and  education  of  these  scholars,  who  were  "  articled  "  for  a  definite  period. 
With  the  passage  of  time,  a  graduated  scale  of  fees  has  been  arranged, 
whereby  the  parents  become  increasingly  responsible  for  the  financial 
burdens  of  educational  work. 


INSTITUTIONAL  WORK  293 

the  Mission  has  320  schools,  of  which  101  are  boarding 
schools,  and  that  the  total  number  of  scholars  is  7408,  of 
which  number  2268  are  boarders.  These  pupils  are  in  the 
large  majority  of  cases  the  children  of  Christians,  and  these 
figures  do  not  include  those  schools  controlled  entirely  by 
Chinese  Christians,  which  are  not  conducted  on  mission 
premises  and  for  which  the  Mission  has  not  direct  responsi 
bility. 

In  several  places  Orphan  Schools  have  been  established. 
The  first  of  these  was  in  Taiyuanfu,  at  the  time  of  the  great 
famine  in  Shansi  mentioned  in  an  earlier  chapter.  More 
recently,  in  consequence  of  the  repeated  famines  in  North 
Kiangsu,  where  a  number  of  missionaries  engaged  in  the 
difficult  and  terribly  trying  experience  of  relief  work,  orphan 
ages  were  built  and  opened  at  Antung  by  funds  specially 
supplied  by  the  New  York  Orphanage  Fund.  In  these 
buildings  80  boys  and  20  girls  have  been  cared  for  and 
educated,  though  the  problem  of  qualifying  them  for  the 
ordinary  battle  of  life  in  China  has  been  by  no  means  easy. 

A  large  foundling  home  has  been  established  at  Saratsi 
in  North  Shansi,  where  from  800  to  goo  girls  have  been 
rescued.  Many  of  these  are  infants,  not  three  years  of  age, 
and  these  have  been  boarded  out  in  the  homes  of  the  people. 
A  tract  of  land,  of  about  600  English  acres  in  extent,  has 
been  acquired,  and  from  this  land  the  needs  of  the  orphanage 
are  in  part  supplied.  This  station  also  has  a  small  Industrial 
School,  where  the  pupils  are  taught  rug-making  and  weaving  ; 
camel's  hair,  which  is  fairly  plentiful  in  that  region,  being 
employed  for  the  rugs.  These  orphanages  and  industrial 
schools  at  Saratsi  are  under  the  care  of  the  Swedish  China 
Alliance  workers  associated  with  the  C.I.M. 

The  needs  of  the  Blind  have  not  been  forgotten.  In 
Changsha  the  German  Associates  from  Liebenzell  have 
built  a  School  for  blind  girls  on  the  site  of  the  buildings — 
destroyed  by  riot  in  1910 — where  Mr.  Taylor  died  in  1905. 
In  this  school  there  are  between  20  and  30  blind  girls,  several 
of  whom  have  been  baptized.  Unfortunately,  in  connection 
with  Mandarin,  three  separate  systems  of  Braille  have  been 
developed,  each  of  which  has  been  used  successfully.  The 


294  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

need  for  a  Standard  or  Union  system  therefore  became 
urgent,  and  to  this  problem  Miss  S.  J.  Garland,  a  C.I.M. 
worker  from  Australia,  has  given  much  prayer  and  thought. 
In  November  1913,  at  the  invitation  of  the  British  and 
Foreign  Bible  Society,  a  Conference  of  teachers  and  workers 
among  the  blind  was  held  in  Shanghai,  and  it  was  agreed 
to  use  Miss  Garland's  system  known  as  the  Tsinchow  code — 
Tsinchow  being  her  station — as  a  basis  of  a  Union  system 
for  Mandarin.  By  the  adoption  of  this  Union  system  it 
will  now  be  possible  for  all  Mandarin-speaking  blind  to  use 
the  same  books,  to  interchange  teachers  or  scholars,  and  to 
assist  each  other  in  many  ways. 

It  should  also  be  mentioned  that  in  one  or  two  stations 
Homes  have  been  opened  for  destitute  aged  persons.  This 
work,  which  has  especially  commended  itself  to  the  Chinese, 
has  existed  for  some  years  at  Kweiki  and  Sintientsi. 

With  the  growth  of  the  Churches,  the  need  of  better- 
trained  evangelists  and  pastors  led  to  the  founding  of  several 
Bible  Training  Institutes.  These  Institutes  serve  the 
demands  of  the  provinces  in  which  they  are  located.  In 
Chekiang,  at  a  provincial  conference  held  at  Ningpo  in  1897, 
the  need  of  such  schools  was  definitely  raised,  though  it  was 
not  until  ten  years  later  that  the  scheme  then  proposed 
materialized.  The  name  of  the  late  Mr.  Doherty  will  always 
be  associated  with  this  scheme,  though  his  lamented  death, 
when  the  Institute  was  in  process  of  building,  deprived  the 
work  of  a  much-beloved  Principal.  The  responsibility  of 
carrying  on  the  work  ultimately  fell  upon  Mr.  W.  H.  Warren, 
under  whose  leadership  the  Bible  School  was  opened  on 
October  21,  1911.  The  first  sixteen  students,  having 
completed  the  two  years'  course  of  study,  and  having  passed 
the  required  examinations,  obtained  their  diplomas  of 
graduation  on  July  24,  1913. 

In  Western  Szechwan  the  need  of  a  similar  Institute  had 
also  been  felt,  and  after  some  occasional  discussions  definite 
proposals  were  submitted  to  Mr.  Hoste  in  1903.  With  these 
proposals  approved,  and  special  funds  being  available,  a 
large  Chinese  house  of  some  twenty  rooms  was  secured  in 


INSTITUTIONAL  WORK  295 

the  Spring  of  1904.  In  the  following  September  this  Bible 
Training  School  was  opened  under  the  direction  of  Mr.  A. 
Grainger,  and  since  that  time  some  sixty  students  have 
passed  through  the  Institute,  approximately  half  of  these 
having  taken  the  full  course,  which  includes  the  study  of 
the  whole  Bible,  Geography,  History,  Church  History, 
Singing,  and  other  subjects.  Practical  evangelistic  work 
is  also  engaged  in  daily. 

In  Eastern  Szechwan,  in  the  Church  of  England  district, 
a  similar  School,  known  as  the  Diocesan  Theological  College, 
was  opened  at  Paoning,  under  the  guidance  of  the  Rev.  A. 
Lawrence  of  the  C.M.S.  until  his  death  in  1905.  Subse 
quently  this  College  was  continued  by  the  Rev.  C.  H. 
Parsons  of  the  C.I.M.  This  Institute  serves  both  the 
C.M.S. ,  and  the  C.I.M.  Church  of  England  work  in 
Szechwan. 

In  1908  another  of  these  Bible  Training  Schools  was 
opened  in  Nanchangfu,  the  capital  of  Kiangsi,  this  School 
being  known  as  "  The  Burrows  Memorial  Bible  Training 
Institute,"  it  having  been  erected  by  members  of  the  family 
in  memory  of  the  late  Lieutenant  Burrows,  a  member  of 
the  Mission  who  died  in  that  city.  In  all  some  fifty  students 
have  received  their  training  here,  under  the  leadership  of 
Mr.  W.  S.  Home,  these  students  representing  more  than 
twenty  stations  in  the  Province,  as  well  as  several  stations 
in  Kiangsu. 

In  Shansi,  in  the  year  1903,  the  Rev.  Percy  Knight 
commenced  to  hold  Bible  Classes  in  the  various  stations, 
and  Winter  Bible  Schools  at  Pingyangfu.  But  his  valuable 
ministry  was  supplemented  by  the  establishment  of  a  central 
Bible  Training  Institute  at  Hungtung  in  the  autumn  of 
1909,  with  Mr.  F.  C.  Dreyer  in  charge.  In  the  Spring  of 
the  following  year,  a  full  two  years'  course  of  study  was 
commenced  with  thirteen  carefully  selected  students,  and 
after  the  Revolution  another  Session  opened  with  about 
thirty  students,  some  of  whom  had  come  from  the  neighbour 
ing  provinces  of  Honan  and  Chihli.  Through  the  gifts  of 
friends  connected  with  the  Los  Angeles  Bible  House,  more 
suitable  premises  for  the  housing  of  this  work  are,  as  we 


296  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

write,  in  course  of  erection,  though  part  of  this  new  home 
was  occupied  in  the  autumn  of  1914. 

In  addition  to  these  regularly  established  Bible  Schools, 
much  has  been  done  in  the  way  of  Bible  instruction  by 
Summer  and  Winter  Schools  arranged  locally.  In  Shansi, 
as  already  mentioned,  Bible  Schools  have  been  conducted 
at  various  stations  for  periods  varying  from  ten  days  to  a 
month  and  more,  and  in  Chekiang,  Mr.  Alexander  Miller 
has  engaged  in  similar  service.  More  and  more  attention 
will  be  given  to  work  of  this  kind  as  the  Churches  multiply 
and  grow. 

In  a  previous  chapter — Chapter  XXII. — the  beginnings 
of  Medical  Mission  work  have  been  briefly  outlined.  All 
that  can  be  attempted  here  is  to  take  up  the  story  at  the 
point  there  dropped,  and  briefly  indicate  some  of  the  recent 
developments.  A  year  before  Dr.  Schoneld's  death,  Drs. 
William  Wilson  and  E.  H.  Edwards  had  joined  the  work, 
and  Dr.  Pruen  was  also  in  the  field.  Dr.  Douthwaite, 
though  he  had  done  some  excellent  medical  work  in  the 
seventies  and  early  eighties,  did  not  fully  qualify  at  home 
until  1885.  By  that  time  the  Mission  had  four  fully-qualified 
men  at  work  in  the  field. 

Dr.  Edwards  took  up  the  work  so  well  begun  at  Taiyuanfu 
by  Dr.  Schofield,  which  work  subsequently  passed  into  the 
hands  of  the  Baptist  Missionary  Society.  Dr.  William 
Wilson  proceeded  north-west,  hoping  to  open  a  hospital  at 
Sianfu.  the  capital  of  Shensi,  but  owing  to  the  hostility  of 
the  people  there,  he  transferred  his  labours  to  Hanchungfu, 
where  he  carried  on  his  useful  ministry  from  1884  to  1895. 

One  item  of  more  than  ordinary  interest  connected  with 
Dr.  William  Wilson's  work  was  his  remarkable  ability  in 
employing  native  material.  The  transport  of  drugs  to  this 
inland  station  was  in  those  days  even  more  difficult  than 
now.  By  the  proper  manipulation  and  aseptic  treatment  of 
a  number  of  native  materials,  splints,  bandages,  absorbent 
wool,  and  aseptic  dressings  for  surgical  purposes  were 
prepared.  Crude  sulphur,  obtainable  in  China,  was  con 
verted,  by  the  simple  process  of  boiling  with  lime,  into  a 


INSTITUTIONAL  WORK  297 

liquid  preparation  which  was  found  to  give  better  results 
than  the  finest  Flowers  of  Sulphur  universally  used  at  home. 
Oxide  of  Zinc,  by  an  equally  simple  and  inexpensive  process, 
was  obtained  from  the  zinc  lining  of  packing  cases  ;  though 
perhaps  the  most  important  saving  was  effected  by  the 
distillation  of  the  weak  native  spirit  to  any  degree  of  con 
centration  required  for  the  manufacture  of  pharmaceutical 
tinctures,  liniments,  liquors,  and  liquid  extracts,  etc.  The 
letters  of  Dr.  Wilson,  who  is  a  perfect  genius  at  this  kind  of 
work,  which  were  published  in  the  China  Medical  Journal, 
were  the  admiration  and  despair  of  many  other  medical 
workers  in  China. 

While  Drs.  Edwards  and  William  Wilson  were  caring  for 
the  hospitals  at  Taiyuanfu  and  Hanchungfu  respectively, 
Dr.  Douthwaite  commenced  his  work  at  Chefoo,  where  he 
obtained  a  well-deserved  notoriety,  as  well  as  Government 
recognition  for  his  Red-Cross  work  during  the  Japanese  war 
with  China.  A  second  hospital  was  opened  in  Shansi  at 
Pingyangfu  by  Dr.  Millar  Wilson  at  his  own  expense,  and 
continued  by  him  until  his  martyrdom  at  Taiyuanfu  in  1900. 
In  his  memory  the  Wilson  Memorial  Hospital  has  been 
erected  and  largely  supported  by  his  relatives,  and  is  now 
under  the  care  of  Drs.  J.  C.  Carr  and  S.  Hoyte. 

In  Kaifengfu,  the  capital  of  Honan  and  the  last  provincial 
capital  to  be  opened  to  the  Gospel,  Medical  work  was  com 
menced  by  Drs.  Whitfield  Guinness  and  Sydney  H.  Carr  in 
the  summer  of  1902.  The  first  patient  was  a  Jewess,  thus 
exemplifying  the  command  :  "  To  the  Jew  first," — Kaifengfu 
being  the  only  city  where  this  would  be  possible  in  China, 
for  there  alone  can  be  found  the  remnants  of  an  ancient 
Jewish  colony.  This  work,  which  had  only  1476  out-patients 
in  1904,  but  had  more  than  15,000  out-patients  in  1913,  has 
been  recently  overshadowed  by  the,  to  us,  untimely  death 
of  Dr.  Sydney  Carr,  an  efficient  and  much-beloved  missionary. 

In  Paoning,  Szechwan,  the  Henrietta  Bird  Memorial 
Hospital  work  was  commenced  by  Dr.  Shackleton  in  1903. 
In  1907  Dr.  Elliot  reopened  this  work,  which  had  been 
temporarily  suspended,  and  in  1912,  when  Dr.  W.  T.  Clark 
joined  the  work,  a  new  building  was  erected.  In  1910, 


298  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

Miss  Dr.  D.  M.  Watney l  reached  this  station,  being  followed 
by  her  sister,  Miss  Dr.  L.  E.  Watney,  two  years  later.  These 
lady  doctors  will  D.V.  reopen  the  hospital  at  Suitingfu, 
where  Dr.  William  W'ilson  formerly  laboured. 

In  Taichowfu,  Chekiang,  the  Mission  has  two  hospitals- 
one  for  men  and  one  for  women — under  the  care  of  Dr.  and 
Mrs.  J.  A.  Anderson,  both  qualified  practitioners,  these 
hospitals  having  been  erected  in  1904  and  1909  respectively. 

In  Jaochowfu,  Kiangsi,  which  station  was  opened  by 
Dr.  Fred.  Judd  in  1898,  dispensary  work  was  carried  on  for 
some  years,  until  a  small  and  temporary  hospital  was  built. 
In  1909  a  fine  site  for  a  hospital,  a  secondary  school,  and 
residential  quarters  was  secured,  the  new  hospital  premises 
being  entered  in  September  1911.  For  many  years  Dr.  and 
Mrs.  Judd  had  been  single-handed,  but  were  joined  by 
Dr.  and  Mrs.  Dansey  Smith  in  1912. 

With  special  funds  contributed  for  the  purpose,  a  hospital 
for  work  among  the  aboriginal  tribes  was  erected  in  Anshunfu 
in  Kweichow,  the  buildings  being  erected  before  the  doctor 
was  found.  Dr.  Fish,  a  worker  in  North  America,  however, 
offered  for  this  post,  and  in  1913  commenced  his  kindly 
ministrations  amongst  these  peoples. 

Medical  work  has  been  carried  on  for  longer  or  shorter 
periods  at  several  other  centres.  Thus  for  many  years  Drs. 
Keller  and  Barrie  had  a  most  flourishing  hospital  at  Changsha, 
Hunan,  which  station  was  ultimately  handed  over  to  the 
Liebenzell  Associates.  Chenchowfu  in  Honan  was  opened 
in  the  spring  of  1895  as  the  result  of  medical  work  under 
taken  by  Dr.  Howard  Taylor  in  that  city  some  three  and 
a  half  years  previously,  at  the  invitation  of  H.E.  Yuan 
Shih-kai,  now  President  of  China,  at  which  time  Yuan 
Shih-kai's  mother  was  dying  of  cancer.  It  may  be  of 
interest  to  mention  that  for  this  service  Dr.  Taylor  received 
a  honorific  tablet  from  H.E.  Li  Hung-chang.  Medical 
work  was  also  temporarily  conducted  at  Talifu  by  Dr.  Clark, 
and  for  a  good  many  years  at  Chinkiang  by  Dr.  Cox.  And 
recently  Dr.  George  King,  whose  heart  has  for  many  years 

1  In  1914  Miss  D.  M.  Watney  was  married  to  Mr.  H.  G,  Thompson,  son 
of  Captain  Thompson  of  Dublin,  also  a  member  of  the  Mission. 


INSTITUTIONAL  WORK  299 

been  set  upon  work  among  the  Moslems  of  China,  has 
proceeded  to  Kansu,  where  it  is  hoped  a  Memorial  Hospital 
will  be  built  in  memory  of  the  late  Mr.  William  Borden,  a 
wealthy  young  Yale  graduate,  who  died  at  Cairo,  where  he 
was  studying  Arabic  with  a  view  to  labouring  as  a  member 
of  the  Mission  among  the  followers  of  Mohammed  in  China. 
A  new  hospital  is  now  being  erected  at  Luanfu  in  Shansi  by 
Dr.  Kelly  with  money  specially  contributed  from  North 
America. 

To  summarize.  The  Mission  has  in  all  nine  Hospitals, 
68  Dispensaries,  with  27  fully  qualified  men  and  women, 
not  to  speak  of  those  Chinese  assistants  who  have  qualified 
in  China.  The  Opium  Refuge  work  is  at  the  present  time 
carried  on  in  some  40  Opium  Refuges,  though  before  China's 
successful  campaign  against  the  curse  of  opium,  the  number 
of  Refuges  was  much  higher. 

In  the  year  1902  Dr.  William  Wilson,  finding  his  medical 
work  somewhat  slack  on  his  return  to  his  station  of  Suitingfu 
after  the  Boxer  crisis,  felt  led  to  attempt,  as  an  experiment, 
the  giving  of  some  scientific  lectures,  with  the  hope  of  getting 
into  close  touch  with  the  student  class,  who  at  that  time 
evinced  a  special  desire  for  Western  learning.  There  was 
an  immediate  and  most  encouraging  response,  and  many 
hundreds  of  intellectual  and  well-educated  men  attended 
Dr.  Wilson's  lectures,  when  the  truths  of  the  Gospel  were 
plainly  put  before  them  both  by  personal  conversations  and 
by  the  distribution  of  literature.  Subsequently  a  hall  was 
built  by  funds  specially  contributed  for  this  work,  and  in 
1908  Dr.  Wilson  attempted  some  similar  work  at  Chengtu, 
the  capital  of  Szechwan.  His  hall  was  visited  by  the  Viceroy 
in  person,  and  as  a  result  of  personal  intercourse  with  the 
literary  Chancellor,  the  students  of  the  various  Government 
schools  and  colleges  had  fixed  days  and  hours  appointed  for 
attending  these  lectures.  This  somewhat  unique  work  was 
instrumental  in  bringing  a  large  number  of  Government 
students  under  the  sound  of  the  Gospel,  men  who  might 
otherwise  never  have  been  reached.  It  should  also  be  added 
that  two  workers  were  temporarily  appointed  for  work 


300  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

among  the  Chinese  students  in  Japan,  a  work  which  has 
been  very  fruitful. 

There  is  one  other  department  of  special  service  which 
must  not  be  omitted  from  this  all  too  rapid  survey.  Apart 
from  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor's  labours  upon  the  Ningpo  colloquial 
New  Testament,  little  was  done  in  the  way  of  literary  work 
until  1887.  During  the  early  years  widespread  itinerations 
engaged  all  the  time  and  strength  of  the  pioneers,  but  in 
1887,  in  consequence  of  the  large  reinforcements  then  joining 
the  Mission,  the  Rev.  F.  W.  Bailer  began  to  devote  his 
linguistic  gifts  to  the  preparation  of  books  for  the  use  of 
young  missionaries.  A  beginning  was  made  with  an  Analysis 
of  the  first  chapter  of  St.  John's  Gospel,  which  was  followed 
by  a  Vocabulary  of  the  entire  Gospel.  A  more  important 
work  was  his  Mandarin  Primer,  with  supplementary 
Vocabulary.  The  two  departments  of  construction  and 
terminology  fell  naturally  into  line,  and  determined  the 
form  of  the  book  in  its  subsequent  editions.  This  valuable 
book  has  been  rewritten  at  least  three  times,  and  eight 
editions  representing  a  total  of  eight  thousand  copies  have 
already  been  exhausted,  a  ninth  edition  being  now  in  the 
press.  That  one  such  Primer  should  have  so  large  a  sale  is 
evidence  of  the  wide  study  of  the  Chinese  language. 

The  warm  reception  accorded  to  the  Primer,  not  only  in 
missionary  circles  but  in  the  Consular  and  Customs  Services, 
led  to  the  preparation  of  an  Analytical  Vocabulary  of  the 
whole  of  the  New  Testament,  which  work  has  passed  through 
two  editions.  Three  editions  of  the  Sacred  Edict,  a  book 
much  used  by  students  of  the  language,  have  been  issued  ; 
and  in  1900  an  Analytical  Chinese-English  Dictionary  was 
published,  containing  the  most  commonly  used  six  thousand 
characters — the  number  usually  estimated  as  in  use  in  the 
Chinese  newspapers — together  with  all  the  characters  and 
important  phrases  found  in  the  C.I.M.  Course  of  Language 
Study.  Of  this  book  two  thousand  copies  were  published, 
and  as  one  proof  of  its  value,  it  may  be  stated  that  a  Chinese 
firm  has  thought  it  worth  while  to  publish  a  pirated  edition. 

Of  the  many  other  works  which  have  come  from  Mr. 
Bailer's  ready  pen  we  can  only  mention  his  Lessons  in 


INSTITUTIONAL  WORK  301 

Elementary  Wenli  ;  a  Chinese  translation  of  A  Retrospect, 
now  in  its  third  edition  ;  and  translations  of  the  Life  of 
Charles  Spurgeon  ;  the  Life  of  George  Muller  ;  and  The  Five 
Offerings  of  Leviticus.  The  Life  of  Pastor  Hsi,  published  in 
Chinese  by  Mr.  Bailer,  is  not  so  much  a  translation  of  Mrs. 
Howard  Taylor's  well-known  book,  but  rather  a  new  work 
cast  into  a  purely  Chinese  mould.  In  addition,  Mr.  Bailer 
has  for  many  years  been  a  prominent  member  of  the  Union 
Mandarin  Bible  Revision  Committee,  while  the  Tracts  and 
Portions  translated  by  him  have  had  a  circulation  of  some 
thing  like  thirty  million  copies. 

Another  member  of  the  Mission  who  has  during  recent 
years  devoted  himself  to  literary  work  is  Mr.  J.  Vale,  who 
in  1911  was  lent  by  the  Mission  to  the  Chinese  Tract  Society 
of  Shanghai  as  their  Editorial  and  General  Secretary.  In 
this  capacity  he  has  edited  two  Chinese  papers — The 
Illustrated  News  and  The  Child's  Paper,  as  well  as  super 
intended  the  preparation  and  publication  of  a  large  output 
of  Christian  literature,  the  issues  by  that  Society  for  one  year 
being  over  three-quarters  of  a  million  copies. 

Space  fails  us  to  record  the  work  of  Mr.  Rudland  on  the 
Taichow  Colloquial  Bible ;  or  the  labours  of  those  who  are 
translating  the  Scriptures  into  the  varied  languages  of  the 
non-Chinese  races ;  or  of  Mr.  F.  H.  Rhodes,  who  is  engaged 
in  the  preparation  and  circulation  of  literature  among  the 
Mohammedans  of  China.  Nor  can  we  speak  in  detail  of  the 
books  which  have  come  from  the  pens  of  Mrs.  Howard  Taylor 
and  others,  and  published  by  the  Mission  in  the  Home 
countries. 

Though  the  energies  of  the  Mission  have  in  the  main 
been  directed  towards  widespread  evangelism,  this  chapter 
of  summaries  will  perhaps  be  sufficient  to  indicate  that 
localized  and  special  work  has  not  been  neglected.  In 
stitutional  work  has  many  comforts  and  encouragements 
denied  to  the  pioneer,  and  only  a  deep  sense  of  the  need  of 
the  unreached  masses,  and  of  the  duty  of  preaching  Christ 
where  He  has  not  been  named,  will  suffice  to  prevent  the 
claims  of  station  work  obscuring  the  needs  of  the  still  un- 
evangelized  regions. 


XLV 
FACTS   ABOUT  FINANCE 

IN  several  of  the  earlier  chapters,  illustrations  have  been 
given  of  the  way  in  which  God  has  graciously  provided  for 
the  financial  needs  of  the  work.  We  now  purpose  speaking 
somewhat  more  fully  on  this  topic,  though  obviously  little 
can  be  said  of  fifty  years  financial  experience  in  one  short 
chapter. 

The  principle  of  faith  in  regard  to  funds  was  many  years 
ago  stated  by  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor  in  the  following  words  : 

Considering  the  great  needs  of  China,,  and  that  the  Master  laid  the 
command  to  go  into  all  the  world  upon  every  believer  ...  we  con 
cluded  to  invite  the  co-operation  of  fellow-believers,  irrespective  of 
denomination,  who  fully  believed  in  the  inspiration  of  God's  Word, 
and  were  willing  to  prove  their  faith  by  going  into  Inland  China  with 
only  the  guarantees  they  carried  within  the  covers  of  their  pocket 
Bibles.  God  had  said,  "  Seek  first  the  Kingdom  of  God  and  His 
righteousness,  and  all  these  things  (food  and  raiment)  shall  be  added 
to  you."  If  any  one  did  not  believe  that  God  spoke  the  truth,  it 
would  be  better  for  him  not  to  go  to  China  to  propagate  the  faith.  If 
he  did  believe  it,  surely  the  promise  sufficed.  Again,  "  No  good  thing 
will  He  withhold  from  them  that  walk  uprightly."  If  any  one  did  not 
mean  to  walk  uprightly,  he  had  better  stay  at  home  ;  if  he  did  mean 
to  walk  uprightly,  he  had  all  he  needed  in  the  shape  of  a  guarantee 
fund. 

Fifty  years  have  passed  since  the  Mission  was  founded 
with  no  other  guarantee  than  that  indicated  in  the  words 
quoted.  Many  and  varied  have  been  the  experiences  of  the 
Mission  through  all  these  years,  yet,  though  the  faith  of 
God's  servants  has  not  infrequently  been  severely  tried, 

302 


FACTS  ABOUT  FINANCE  303 

God's  faithfulness  has  never  failed.  During  these  years  a 
sum  of  approximately  one  and  three-quarter  millions 
sterling  *  has  been  received  by  the  Mission,  apart  from  the 
funds  given  for  the  support  of  the  Associate  workers,  who 
mainly  come  from  the  continent  of  Europe.  Were  the  total 
of  these  additional  contributions  ascertainable — these  funds 
being  transmitted  direct  to  the  field  and  often  not  passing 
through  the  Treasurer's  hands  in  Great  Britain — it  would 
be  found  that  the  total  sum  received  from  the  commence 
ment  did  not  fall  far  short  of  two  million  pounds  sterling. 
All  this  money  has  been  sent  in  in  answer  to  prayer,  for  the 
work  is  supported  entirely  by  the  freewill  offerings  of  God's 
people,  no  personal  solicitations  or  collections  being 
authorized. 

Fifty  years,  with  all  their  many  and  varied  needs,  have 
afforded  abundant  opportunity  for  proving  the  certainty  of 
God's  promises.  There  have  been  years  of  drought,  when 
faith  has  been  tested  ;  and  years  of  plenty,  when  faith  has 
rejoiced  ;  yet  throughout  all  this  period  the  supply  has  been 
wonderfully  regulated  to  meet  an  ever-varying  and  growing 
need.  In  the  years  when  "  the  Seventy  "  sailed,  or  "  the 
Hundred  "  new  workers  suddenly  swelled  the  ranks  of  the 
Mission,  the  increased  needs  were  met  by  special  supplies 
as  was  mentioned  in  the  chapters  which  told  of  those 
events. 

"  As  to  their  support,"  wrote  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor,  when  referring 
to  the  proposed  prayer  for  large  reinforcements,  "  the  God  who  had 
found  no  difficulty  in  sustaining  in  the  wilderness  the  millions  of  Israel, 
was  not  likely  to  feel  burdened  with  the  care  of  a  few  extra  workers 
for  Inland  China.  His  arm  has  not  waxed  short.  There  was  no  fear 
that  we  should  have  to  become  vegetarians  !  The  cattle  on  a  thousand 
hills  are  His,  and  were  the  currency  of  the  whole  world  to  fail  or  be 
insufficient,  He  has  abundance  of  unmined  silver  and  gold.  We  can 
afford  to  be  poor  with  so  rich  a  Father.  So  we  agreed  to  pray."  And 
the  prayer  of  faith  was  justified. 

1  A  careful  analysis  of  the  London  Accounts  made  by  Mr.  J.  N.  Hay- 
ward,  the  Treasurer  of  the  Mission  in  China,  when  last  at  home  on  furlough, 
showed  that  more  than  91  per  cent  of  the  money  received  was  used  directly 
for  the  work  in  China,  and  less  than  9  per  cent  was  expended  on  Home 
administration. 


304  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

And  in  the  same  way  as  God  has  met  the  suddenly  in 
creased  need  for  passage  moneys,  and  for  the  general  support 
of  these  large  bands  of  reinforcements,  so  has  God  supplied 
the  needs  for  the  larger  and  more  expensive  buildings,  which 
from  time  to  time  it  has  been  necessary  to  erect.  The 
invaluable  Compound  possessed  by  the  Mission  in  Shanghai, 
the  admirable  Schools  at  Chefoo,  the  convenient  Offices 
and  Home  situated  in  London,  as  well  as  those  in  Toronto, 
Philadelphia,  and  Melbourne,  together  with  many  other 
smaller  buildings  in  different  parts  of  China,  have  been 
purchased  or  erected  by  funds  specially  contributed  for 
that  purpose,  so  that  the  General  Funds  of  the  Mission 
have  been  encroached  upon  as  little  as  possible  for  mission 
premises.  Hundreds  of  buildings  held  by  the  Mission  in 
trust  for  God's  work — Chapels,  Halls,  Schools,  Hospitals, 
and  Offices,  etc.,  are  all  standing  monuments  to  God's 
faithfulness  ;  the  very  stones  of  which  would  cry  out  did 
we  hold  our  peace. 

From  among  the  many  thousands  of  instances  in  which 
God's  hand  has  interposed  on  behalf  of  His  servants  it  is 
only  possible  to  select  a  few  representative  cases,  which  will 
illustrate  the  experiences  of  the  Mission  both  on  the  field 
and  in  the  several  Home  departments  in  Great  Britain, 
North  America,  and  Australasia. 

One  of  the  few  missionaries  who  joined  the  Mission  and 
set  forth  for  China  before  the  sailing  of  the  Lammermuir 
party  was  Mr.  George  Stott,  who,  after  about  eighteen 
months'  study  of  the  language  at  Ningpo,  proceeded  to 
Wenchow,  the  most  southerly  prefectural  city  of  Chekiang, 
to  open  a  new  station,  where  he  was  permitted  to  labour 
for  more  than  twenty  years.  For  nearly  two  years  he  dwelt 
alone  in  that  city  of  over  three  hundred  thousand  souls, 
without  seeing  another  European  face,  and  without  hearing 
a  word  of  his  mother-tongue.  Concerning  those  lonely  and 
trying  days,  when  much  severe  opposition  was  experienced, 
he  wrote  : 

Once  I  fell  very  short  of  funds — in  fact,  so  short  that  I  had  not  a 
dollar  in  the  house.  I  was  without  a  dollar,  I  think,  for  twenty  or 
twenty-one  days — I  forget  which — and  I  had  nearly  twenty  people 


FACTS  ABOUT  FINANCE  305 

in  the  house  to  feed.  Now,  how  were  they  to  be  fed  ?  I  think  this 
will  be  an  illustration  of  God's  faithfulness  to  a  poor  weak  man.  You 
know,  I  daresay,  that  it  is  also  one  of  our  principles  never  to  incur  debt. 
No  matter  what  may  come,  we  never  will  incur  debt.  My  money  was 
gone  and  my  food  also  was  nearly  exhausted.  Well,  there  was  a  man 
from  whom  I  had  bought  rice  several  times  ;  and  he  came  to  me  one 
day  and  said,  "  Mr.  Stott,  how  is  it  you  have  not  been  to  order  rice  ? 
Your  rice  must  be  out."  I  replied,  "  Well,  the  rice  is  nearly  gone,  but 
I  cannot  order  any."  "  Why  ?  "  said  he.  "  Well,  if  you  must  know 
the  reason,  it  is  simply  because  I  have  not  got  the  money  to  pay  for 
it."  Soon  after  that  he  sent  me  two  loads  of  rice  and  3000  cash,  equal 
in  value  to  perhaps  los.  or  123.  Well,  this  rice  also  was  done,  and  the 
money  was  spent ;  but  still  no  help  came.  But  when  that  was  gone, 
he  again  supplied  my  need,  and  my  tongue  would  fail  to  tell  you  the 
joy  I  had  with  God  during  those  days.  I  shall  remember,  I  think, 
as  long  as  life  or  reason  remains,  how  I  sat  sometimes  for  two  hours 
together  upon  the  floor  of  my  bedroom  and  lifted  up  my  heart  to  my 
God,  and  sometimes  I  felt  almost  stretching  out  my  hands  to  embrace 
my  dear  Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus  Christ.  I  had  some  of  the  nearest 
approaches  to  God  during  those  twenty  or  twenty-one  days  that  I 
ever  experienced  in  my  life,  and  God  kept  me  in  perfect  peace.  I  think 
I  never  doubted  that  help  would  come. 

During  the  time  that  I  was  waiting  upon  God  for  that  help,  I  re 
ceived  a  letter  from  our  friend,  Mr.  Berger,  informing  me  that  a  young 
friend  had  already  started  from  England,  and  perhaps  by  the  time  that 
I  received  the  letter  would  be  more  than  half-way  to  China,  who  was 
to  become  my  wife.  I  daresay  many  would  think  that  it  was  not  a 
very  bright  prospect  to  get  married  on.  Well,  I  found  God  faithful, 
for  before  she  arrived  I  was  delivered  out  of  that  trouble. 

Another  worker,  whose  name  has  already  appeared  in 
these  pages,  who  was  permitted  to  give  twenty-five  years  of 
service  to  China,  the  greater  part  as  a  medical  missionary, 
was  Dr.  A.  W.  Douthwaite.  When  on  furlough  in  England 
during  the  year  1885  he  related  the  following  story : 

When  I  was  in  the  city  of  Wenchow,  with  two  other  families  of  our 
missionaries  belonging  to  the  C.I.M.,  we  were  a  long  time  without  a 
supply  of  funds.  We  had  run  very  short  of  money,  and  as  it  drew 
towards  Christmas-time  we  began  to  expect  some  from  England, 
which  was  our  usual  source  of  supply.  All  the  money  was  used  up, 
but  we  said,  "  The  steamer  will  be  in  at  Christmas,  and  then  we  shall 
surely  get  some  more."  Christmas  evening  came,  and  with  it  the 
steamer,  but  not  a  cent  of  money  for  us.  Our  hopes  seemed  dashed 
to  the  ground.  We  had  in  our  house  just  a  little  flour  and  some 

X 


306  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

potatoes  and  a  few  other  things.  We  knew  that  we  could  get  no  more 
money  from  our  usual  source  for  probably  fifteen  days,  and  our  col 
leagues  in  the  city  were  in  just  about  the  same  fix.  Just  at  this  time 
I  was  subject  to  a  little  temptation,  for  I  was  offered  a  situation  under 
the  Chinese  Government  at  £800  a  year.  This  would  have  involved 
giving  up  missionary  work,  but  God  enabled  me  to  resist  this  tempta 
tion.  I  am  sure  it  was  a  temptation  from  the  devil.  It  came  just 
at  the  time  when  we  were  depressed  and  had  been  short  of  money  for 
a  long  time  ;  and  probably  had  not  my  wife  remained  so  staunch  and 
firm  and  true,  and  so  determined  not  to  give  up,  I  might  have  yielded. 
She  would  not  think  of  such  a  thing.  Well,  as  I  said,  the  steamer  came, 
and  with  it  no  money — nothing  to  encourage  us  at  all.  We  went,  as 
usual,  and  told  the  Lord  all  about  it,  for  we  went  out  to  China  knowing 
that  we  had  only  God  to  depend  upon  ;  and  we  were  quite  satisfied 
that  that  was  enough  for  us,  and  we  told  our  wants  to  Him. 

Now  you  will  see  how  that  day  the  Lord,  having  shut  up  one  source 
to  try  our  faith,  opened  others.  Before  dinner-time,  a  Chinaman  came 
along  with  a  large  piece  of  beef,  and  said,  "  I  want  you  to  accept  this 
as  a  present.  I  have  received  a  great  deal  of  medicine  from  you.  You 
have  done  me  good,  and  you  would  not  take  any  money ;  will  you 
please  take  this  ?  "  I  took  it,  and  thanked  God  for  it.  Soon  after 
wards,  in  came  another  Chinaman,  a  gentleman,  with  a  coolie  walking 
behind  him  with  a  large  bamboo  over  his  shoulder,  and  a  basket 
hanging  from  each  end.  The  man  put  the  things  down  in  the  reception 
room,  and  I  was  asked  to  come  down.  I  went  down  and  opened  the 
baskets  and  found  in  them  four  hams,  and  some  little  things  besides. 
He  said,  "  I  want  you  to  accept  this  as  a  present."  The  usual  thing 
with'  a  Chinaman  is  to  expect  you  to  take  a  little  of  what  he  brings 
and  give  him  back  the  rest ;  but  I  saw  that  this  man  intended  me  to 
take  all,  and  I  did  so,  and  thanked  God  for  it.  In  came  another 
Chinaman,  with  a  fat  pheasant  and  some  chickens  and  a  basket  of 
eggs,  and  he  asked  me  to  accept  these  ;  I  did  accept  them,  and  thanked 
God  for  them.  But  that  was  not  all.  Before  evening,  a  European 
connected  with  the  consular  service  came  along,  bringing  with  him  a 
coolie  carrying  a  huge  turkey.  He  said,  "  See,  I  have  been  feeding  this 
turkey  for  you  for  six  months,  will  you  accept  it  ?  "  You  see  that  the 
Lord  knew  six  months  before  that  we  were  going  to  be  short  on  that 
day,  and  He  provided  for  us.  Thus  we  had  an  abundance  of  food  for 
the  whole  of  us,  although  our  usual  supply  was  cut  off.  Several  other 
things  came  in.  A  week  or  two  before  then  I  had  my  umbrella  stolen, 
and  during  this  time  in  comes  a  Chinaman  with  a  foreign  umbrella, 
a  silk  one.  He  said,  "  I  have  been  to  Shanghai,  and  I  wanted  to  get  a 
present  for  you,  and  I  did  not  know  what  else  to  get,  so  I  have  brought 
this  umbrella." 

Towards  evening  I  received  a  letter  from  the  custom-house  officers, 


FACTS  ABOUT  FINANCE  307 

saying,  that  as  I  had  gratuitously  attended  to  them  in  cases  of  sickness, 
they  had  subscribed  to  purchase  a  case  of  instruments  for  me,  but  not 
knowing  what  I  wanted,  would  I  kindly  accept  the  money  ?  Of  course 
I  kindly  did  !  They  sent  with  the  letter  a  roll  of  seventy  dollars. 
Our  hearts  were  full  of  joy.  We  gave  God  thanks  for  all  that  He  had 
done  for  us  ;  and  it  is  always  a  joy  to  me  to  look  back  upon  that 
occasion  and  upon  other  similar  occasions,  and  remember  what  God 
has  done.  "  The  young  lions  do  lack  and  suffer  hunger ;  but  they 
that  seek  the  Lord  shall  not  want  any  good  thing."  I  have  proved 
that,  and  all  who  trust  in  Him  will  also  prove  it. 

Not  to  prolong  this  chapter  by  instances  of  a  similar  and 
personal  nature,  we  pass  on  to  the  more  general  experiences 
of  the  Mission  at  their  headquarters.  In  March  1901  a 
letter  was  received  in  Toronto  from  Shanghai,  stating  that 
the  funds  from  the  home  countries  had  been  unusually  small. 
At  this  time  Mr.  Frost  was  in  Chefoo,  and  he  also  mentioned 
in  his  correspondence  the  same  need.  This  was  felt  to  be  a 
special  call  for  prayer  by  the  friends  in  Toronto,  and  the 
letters  having  arrived  on  Monday  evening  it  was  agreed  that 
the  friends  should  meet  for  special  prayer  at  5  P.M.  on 
Tuesday. 

The  noon  mail  on  Tuesday  brought  a  letter  with  a  cheque 
for  $1000,  of  which  $300  were  designated  to  the  General 
Funds.  This  was  naturally  accepted  as  a  gracious  token 
of  what  God  would  do,  and  when  the  friends  met  at  5  P.M. 
the  meeting  was  one  both  of  praise  and  intercession.  On 
Tuesday  it  was  determined  to  meet  again  the  following  day 
at  5  P.M.  and  ask  definitely  for  at  least  $3000  for  the  mission 
ary  account  in  China.  Again,  the  Wednesday  noon  mail 
brought  a  draft,  this  time  on  New  York,  for  $500,  and  a 
friend  handed  in  personally  $120  in  bank-notes.  It  need 
hardly  be  said  that  the  prayer  meeting  that  afternoon  was 
again  one  of  praise  as  well  as  of  intercession,  recognizing 
that  the  Lord  had  fulfilled  His  promise,  "  Before  they  call,  I 
will  answer." 

Encouraged  by  these  tokens,  it  was  agreed  that  they 
should  meet  the  next  day  to  pray  for  the  remainder  of  the 
$3000,  and  to  praise  God  for  the  tokens  of  His  favour  already 
received.  Again,  the  Thursday  noon  mail  brought  another 
evidence  of  God's  faithfulness  in  a  cheque  for  $3200.  "  You 


3o8  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

may  be  sure,"  wrote  Mr.  Helmer,  "  that  our  hearts  were 
overflowing  with  praise  for  these  full  answers  to  our  prayers." 
What  could  they  do  but  agree  to  meet  again  on  Friday  at 
5  P.M.  to  praise  God  for  His  gracious  dealings.  Friday 
morning  and  noon  mails  brought  no  more  funds,  but  in  the 
afternoon,  before  the  meeting,  another  letter  was  received 
enclosing  a  cheque  for  $571. 

Not  many  months  later  than  the  incident  related  above 
a  party  of  seven  men  in  Australia  was  due  to  leave  Sydney 
for  China,  on  Tuesday,  December  17,  1901.  But  when  the 
day  of  departure  arrived,  sufficient  money  for  all  the  passages 
had  not  been  received.  The  boat,  however,  happened  to  be 
postponed  for  two  days,  and  on  Wednesday  a  special  meeting 
of  the  Council  in  Melbourne  was  called  for  prayer,  to  once 
more  lay  the  whole  matter  before  God.  Afterwards  a  sum 
of  money  was  received  sufficient  to  complete  the  payment 
of  five  passages.  Thursday  dawned,  and  a  telegram  had  to 
be  sent  to  Sydney  instructing  two  of  the  young  men  who 
were  tarrying  there  to  wait  for  the  next  steamer.  The 
remaining  part  of  the  story  is  best  told  in  the  words  of 
Dr.  Kitchen,  the  Treasurer  : 

To  say  that  we  were  puzzled  is  putting  it  lightly  ;  for  the  first  time 
it  seemed  as  if  the  promises  of  God  had  failed  us  !  We  unitedly  bowed 
before  Him  asking  Him  to  show  us  where  the  mistake  had  been,  and 
how  we  had  failed  to  recognize  His  will,  for  all  of  us  had  felt  most 
clearly  that  it  was  His  will  for  all  this  party  to  go,  so  that  when  we 
came  face  to  face  with  the  fact  that  two  had  been  left  behind,  it  seemed 
to  us  incomprehensible,  for  we  still  felt  that  we  were  in  the  line  of  His 
holy  will.  We  humbled  ourselves  before  God,  but  we  could  get  no 
light  at  all,  and  the  riddle  seemed  insoluble. 

Friday  morning,  the  first  post  brought  us  a  cheque  for  £25,  and  the 
first  thought  was,  "  Why  not  yesterday,  Lord  ?  It's  too  late  now," 
and  it  was  put  on  one  side  ;  after  breakfast  the  thought  came,  would  it 
be  possible  for  them  to  catch  the  steamer  at  Brisbane  by  going  over 
land  from  Sydney  ?  but  on  looking  up  the  time-table  we  found  that 
it  could  not  be  done  in  the  time,  unless  the  agents  would  delay  her  for 
us.  We  communicated  with  the  shipping  company,  and  in  the  after 
noon  came  the  delightful  news  that  the  Changsha  had  not  left  Sydney 
till  that  morning  at  eight  o'clock.  If,  then,  we  could  only  let  the 
young  men  know,  they  might  still  catch  her  !  Earlier  in  the  day  a 


FACTS  ABOUT  FINANCE  309 

preparatory  telegram  had  been  sent  to  our  Sydney  Secretary,  and  we 
now  sent  word  to  Mr.  Martin  for  the  young  men  to  go  on.  We  felt 
sure  that  the  Lord  who  had  thus  opened  up  a  new  way  to  China  would 
not  fail  us  now,  but  we  were  kept  waiting  till  the  next  evening,  when  a 
wire  came,  "  Webster  and  Bird  caught  train."  The  Lord  Jesus  meant, 
"  If  ye  shall  ask  anything  in  My  Name,  I  will  do  it."  Of  course  He 
did,  and  we  felt  most  thankful  that  we  had  not  once  doubted  His 
Word  or  His  wisdom. 

Of  the  Mission's  financial  experiences  in  Great  Britain 
the  writer  is  naturally  more  familiar  than  with  those  of 
North  America  and  Australasia.  While  a  study  of  the 
Annual  Reports  enables  the  general  reader  to  see  how 
remarkably  God  has  supplied  the  needs  of  His  work,  only 
those  who  are  in  a  position  to  know  what  those  needs  are, 
and  at  the  same  time  to  watch  day  by  day  the  incoming  of 
supplies,  can  begin  to  appreciate  the  constancy  of  God's 
help,  and  His  unfailing  faithfulness  in  delivering  His  servants 
from  positions  of  great  difficulty.  In  a  peculiar  way  the 
C.I.M.  is  able  to  observe  God's  interposition  on  its  behalf, 
because  practically  all  its  funds  come  in  direct  to  the  office 
by  the  daily  post.  Thus  month  by  month,  as  the  days 
creep  on,  the  needs  and  the  supplies  are  ever  before  the  eyes 
of  the  home  staff.  Not  infrequently  the  month  has  nearly 
closed,  and  the  day  when  funds  should  be  telegraphed  to 
China  has  drawn  near,  and  yet  the  amount  received  has 
fallen  far  short  of  what  was  apparently  needed.  Yet,  time 
and  time  again,  ere  the  day  or  hour  for  transmission  has 
really  come,  God's  answer  has  come  also.  Thus  those  who 
have  daily  watched  and  daily  prayed  are  privileged  in  an 
especial  way  to  see  God's  hand  stretched  out  on  their  behalf. 

One  or  two  illustrations  of  this  may  now  be  given,  and 
if  in  the  cases  quoted  reference  is  made  to  large  gifts,  which 
have  brought  financial  relief,  it  is  not  that  the  smaller 
donations  are  overlooked  or  less  appreciated,  for  it  is  possible 
that  the  "  widow's  mite  "  may  be  the  more  sacred  of  the 
two.  The  true  value  of  any  gift  is  only  known  to  God,  and 
no  gifts  have  been  more  precious,  or  have  made  us  feel  so 
much  the  sacred  character  of  the  offerings,  as  some  of  the 
smaller  sums  given  out  of  poverty  and  need.  The  following 


310  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

instances  are  selected  solely  because  they  strikingly  illustrate 
God's  intervention  at  times  of  special  trial. 

During  the  month  of  February  1905  funds  came  in  very 
slowly,  and  though  daily  prayer  was  made  to  God  at  the 
office  in  London,  the  month  closed  without  any  marked 
relief.  On  March  2,  after  the  February  accounts  had  been 
closed,  a  cheque  for  £900  was  made  out  and  forwarded  to  the 
bank  for  transmission.  It  was  known  that  this  sum  was 
wholly  inadequate  to  the  needs  of  the  moment,  but  it  was 
all  God  had  provided,  so  with  some  measure  of  regret  the 
cheque  was  posted.  The  first  delivery  of  letters  the  following 
morning  brought  a  welcome  gift  of  £2000.  The  bank  was 
immediately  telephoned  to  and  the  cheque  for  £900  stopped, 
and  ere  the  day  closed  a  normal  sum  was  cabled  to  Shanghai. 

Again,  during  the  early  months  of  1908  the  income  had 
fallen  in  one  quarter  about  £6000  below  the  corresponding 
quarter  of  the  previous  year.  In  the  Annual  Report, 
presented  at  the  Annual  Meetings  in  May,  a  brief  statement 
concerning  the  Mission's  income  closed  with  these  words  : 

Yet  with  all  the  promises  of  God  before  us,  and  all  the  records  of 
the  past  behind  us  in  support  and  confirmation  of  those  promises,, 
have  we  not  abundant  cause  to  go  forward,  trusting  in  Him  who  is 
able  to  do  exceeding  abundantly,  above  all  that  we  ask  or  think  ? 

Two  or  three  weeks  later  a  letter  was  received  from  a 
kind  donor,  who  had  evidently  been  studying  the  Report, 
for  with  his  generous  gift  of  £5000  he  wrote  : 

I  send  you  cheque  for  £5000,  and  this  will  be  another  proof  that  you 
have,  as  your  Report  says,  abundant  cause  to  go  forward,  trusting 
Him  who  is  able  to  do  exceeding  abundantly  above  all  that  we  ask  or 
think. 

How  timely  this  gift  was  not  even  the  generous  donor 
knew.  It  is  the  custom  in  the  Treasurer's  Department  in 
Shanghai  to  forward  remittances  to  the  workers  in  the 
interior  once  a  quarter.  If  the  moneys  cabled  to  China 
monthly  should  be  short  in  the  first  and  second  months  of 
each  quarter,  that  shortness  is  not  immediately  felt ;  but 


FACTS  ABOUT  FINANCE  311 

if  when  the  third  month's  remittance  arrives  funds  are  still 
low,  all  moneys  disbursed  from  Shanghai  have  to  be  cut 
down  in  proportion  to  the  sum  received.  This  gift  of  £5000 
came  on  the  very  day  when  the  money  of  the  third  month  of 
the  quarter  was  to  be  cabled  to  China.  How  much  such  a 
proof  of  God's  faithfulness  and  timely  care  meant  to  those 
who  had  watched  the  days  of  the  preceding  three  months 
slowly  pass,  only  those  who  have  had  a  similar  experience 
can  appreciate. 

In  November  1910  another  deliverance  came,  just  at 
the  close  of  the  third  month  again.  During  the  two  months 
of  September  and  October  the  funds  had  been  so  much 
below  normal  that  somewhat  less  than  half  of  a  quarter's 
remittance  had  been  forwarded  to  China  instead  of  two- 
thirds.  The  month  of  November — the  last  of  this  quarter 
for  forwarding  moneys  to  China — steadily  advanced  and 
still  no  special  answer  came.  Some  gifts  came  daily,  and 
for  these  thanks  were  given  to  God,  especially  as  some  of 
the  letters  indicated  that  God's  people  were  being  moved. 
One  such  letter  ran  as  follows  : 

I  am  pleased  to  enclose  cheque  value  £100  as  a  donation  to  the  China 
Inland  Mission.  I  am  a  widow  and  live  very  quietly,  so  am  able  to 
send  what  is,  to  me,  so  large  a  sum  ;  but  I  felt  a  call  to  do  this  independ 
ently  of  the  usual  sum  sent  annually. 

Encouraged  by  this  and  similar  tokens,  prayer  was 
constantly  made  that  God  would  provide.  November  30 
arrived,  and  yet  when  the  office  staff  met  for  prayer,  after 
the  morning  mails  had  been  opened,  there  was  no  sign  of 
deliverance.  The  daily  portion  from  My  Counsellor  is 
always  read  before  prayer,  and  at  such  times  of  need  the 
mind  and  heart  are  the  more  ready  for  some  word  of  promise. 
Among  the  verses  read  that  morning  were  the  following  : 

The  idols  of  the  heathen  are  silver  and  gold,  the  work  of  men's 
hands.  .  .  .  They  that  make  them  are  like  unto  them  ;  so  is  every 
one  that  trusteth  in  them.  ...  0  Israel,  trust  thou  in  the  Lord  :  He 
is  their  Helper  and  their  Shield. 

Love  not  the  world,  neither  the  things  that  are  in  the  world.     If 


312  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

any  man  love  the  world,  the  love  of  the  Father  is  not  in  him.  .  .  .  The 
love  of  money  is  the  root  of  all  evil :  covetousness,  which  is  idolatry. 

Lovest  thou  Me,  more  than  these  ?  .  .  .  My  heart  is  fixed,  O  God, 
my  heart  is  fixed  ;  I  will  sing  and  give  praise. 

There  is  no  need  to  indicate  the  line  prayer  took  after 
such  heart-searching  words,  yet  withal  such  words  of  hope 
and  praise.  The  season  of  prayer  and  praise  was  ended, 
and  each  worker  took  up  his  or  her  appointed  task  in  faith 
and  joy  in  Him  "  who  giveth  songs  in  the  night."  Not 
many  hours  had  elapsed,  however,  ere  He  also  gave  "  the 
songs  of  deliverance,"  for  a  special  gift  of  £1000 — not  given, 
we  believe,  without  real  sacrifice  by  one  who  did  not  know 
the  urgent  need — came  as  another  signal  proof  that  our 
Heavenly  Father  knows  what  things  His  children  have  need 
of.  The  sum  received  was  not  all  that  we  thought  was 
needed,  but  God  knew  what  was  best,  and  this  token  of  His 
remembrance  at  the  last  moment  brought  spiritual  as  well 
as  financial  relief. 

Only  one  other  illustration  can  be  given  here.  The  year 
1912  was  one  of  the  most  trying  in  the  Mission's  financial 
history.  In  Great  Britain  the  income  had  been  the  lowest 
for  sixteen  years,  though  the  work  had  grown  considerably. 
After  the  close  of  the  year  a  brief  annual  financial  statement 
was  published,  as  usual,  in  China  s  Millions,  the  facts  being 
frankly  stated  with  the  following  comment  : 

As  a  Mission,  we  desire  to  learn  any  lessons  God  has  to  teach  us  by 
the  special  experiences  through  which  He  is  now  calling  us  to  pass. 
May  He  grant  that  the  heart-searchings  and  renewed  test  of  faith  may 
result  in  God's  glory  and  more  efficient  service  on  our  part. 

The  following  lines,  written  by  Mr.  George  Miiller  in  1881,  when 
subjected  to  a  somewhat  similar  trial,  very  aptly  fit  the  experiences  of 
the  C.I.M.  to-day,  and  we  quote  them  here  as  representing  the  Mission's 
outlook  from  the  mere  human  standpoint,  and  also  from  the  stand 
point  of  faith  in  an  Almighty  God. 

"  The  natural  appearance  now  is  that  the  work  cannot  be  carried  on. 
But  /  believe  that  the  Lord  will  help,  and  that  we  shall  not  be  con 
founded  ;  also  that  the  work  shall  not  need  to  be  given  up.  I  am  fully 
expecting  help,  and  have  written  this  to  the  glory  of  God,  that  it  may 
be  recorded  hereafter  for  the  encouragement  of  His  children.  The 


FACTS  ABOUT  FINANCE  313 

result  will  be  seen.     I  expect  that  we  shall  not  be  confounded,  though 
for  some  years  we  have  not  been  so  poor." 

Within  a  few  days  of  these  words  being  penned,  a  muni 
ficent  gift  of  £10,000  was  received  by  the  Mission,  which 
again  proved  : 

God  never  yet  forsook  at  need 
The  soul  that  trusted  Him  indeed. 

Of  all  God's  dealings  with  the  Mission,  in  these  and  other 
matters,  we  can  only  say  : 

Many,  O  Lord  my  God,  are  the  wonderful  works 

which  Thou  hast  done, 
And  Thy  thoughts  which  are  to  us-ward  : 
They  cannot  be  set  in  order  unto  Thee  ; 
If  I  would  declare  and  speak  of  them, 
They  are  more  than  can  be  numbered. 


XLVI 
THE   MISSION   FROM   WITHIN 

IN  tracing  the  history  of  the  Mission  from  its  early  days, 
many  incidental  references  have  been  made  to  the  principles 
and  practice  which  have  governed  the  conduct  of  the  work. 
We  now  propose  to  supplement  what  has  been  already  said 
by  some  further  details  of  the  Mission's  organization  from 
within. 

By  specializing  on  one  country,  it  has  been  possible  to 
organize  the  work  in  a  way  that  would  not  be  wholly 
practicable  with  those  Societies  which  labour  in  many  fields. 
The  Society  which  has  workers  in  Africa,  India,  and  China, 
or  other  countries,  must  of  necessity  have  one  centre  from 
which  the  whole  work  is  directed,  and  that  centre  is  generally, 
if  not  invariably,  at  home.  With  the  C.I.M.,  since  all  the 
work  centres  in  China,  it  is  not  only  possible,  but  even 
necessary,  because  of  its  international  character,  for  the 
headquarters  to  be  on  the  field,  and  such  an  arrangement 
has  many  obvious  advantages,  especially  when  those  who 
direct  the  work  are  themselves  experienced  missionaries. 

In  the  Mission  there  are  both  Home  and  China  Depart 
ments  which  work  in  mutual  co-operation,  the  duties  of  the 
Home  Departments  being  in  reference  to  the  examination, 
acceptance,  and  training  of  candidates  ;  the  promotion  of 
missionary  interest  by  meetings  and  literature  ;  the  receiving 
of  contributions  for  the  work  and  the  remitting  of  the  same 
to  China,  the  auditing  and  publishing  of  Reports  and 
Accounts,  together  with  many  varied  details  of  a  general 
nature. 

314 


THE  SHANGHAI  CoMPorxn. 


Mr.  fl.  T.  Moodi 


•h  prei.ni*''s  liav;e  been  erected  to  the  glory  of  God  arid  the  furtherance  of  His  Kingdom  in  China 

with  funds  specially  contributed  for  the  purpose."     Inscription  at  entrance.    See  page  198. 

??-;);77Boti>0m  rt°°r  a11  offic''s  an(l  box-rooms.     Upper  story  home  of  Stan. 
Middle. -Prayer-meeting  Hall  in  centre  ;  Hospital  and  Staff  residences. 

iome  for  missionaries  passing  through  Shanghai.    The  central  Kiosk  was  the  builder's  gift. 

Tofucepage  314. 


THE  MISSION  FROM  WITHIN  315 

In  China  all  new  workers — who  are  missionary  proba 
tioners  for  the  first  two  years — whether  from  Great  Britain, 
North  America,  Australasia,  or  the  continent  of  Europe, 
are  welcomed,  and  after  a  period  of  study  at  one  of  the 
Language  Schools,  are  appointed  to  their  stations.  At  the 
close  of  two  years,  those  who  have  approved  themselves,  and 
have  passed  the  prescribed  language  examinations,  are 
received  as  junior  missionaries,  and  at  the  end  of  another 
three  years,  if  the  further  examinations  have  been  success 
fully  taken,  and  he  has  otherwise  approved  himself,  the 
worker  receives  a  certificate  as  a  senior  missionary,  qualifying 
him  or  her  to  take  charge  of  a  station. 

The  whole  of  the  work  is  under  the  guidance  of  a  General 
Director,  assisted  in  the  Home  countries  by  Home  Directors, 
Secretaries,  and  Advisory  Councils  ;  and  assisted  in  China 
by  a  Deputy-Director,  and  advised  by  a  Council  composed 
exclusively  of  missionaries,  many  of  whom  are  Super 
intendents  of  provincial  districts. 

A  visitor  to  the  headquarters  in  London — and  what  is 
said  of  London  is  more  or  less  true  of  other  Home  countries — 
would  find  not  only  offices  but  also  a  mission  home.  In 
this  Home  missionaries  going  to  or  coming  from  China  can 
reside,  an  arrangement  by  which  not  only  is  social  inter 
course  between  the  workers  cultivated,  but  the  expense  and 
inconvenience  of  temporary  lodgings  avoided.  The  buildings 
also  afford  box-room  for  the  storing  of  luggage  during 
furlough  and  for  packing  purposes  when  about  to  sail.  And 
what  is  of  greater  importance,  special  accommodation  has 
been  built  or  adapted  for  regular  prayer  meetings,  which 
have  been  a  marked  feature  of  the  work,  and  maintained 
from  the  beginning. 

In  the  offices,  housed  within  the  same  building,  all  the 
routine  of  the  Mission's  Home  Department  is  carried  on, 
whether  it  be  secretarial,  financial,  editorial,  or  general 
office  work.  And  here  it  may  be  mentioned  that  for  many 
years  the  Mission  has  had  a  regular  Business  Department, 
by  which  means  goods  are  purchased  at  trade  terms,  and 
are  shipped  to  Shanghai,  where  a  large  central  Business 
Department  undertakes  the  receiving  of  orders  from  the 


3i6  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

stations  and  the  despatching  of  goods  up  country  in  return. 
What  with  the  personal  needs  of  more  than  a  thousand 
workers,  the  erection  of  mission  buildings,  the  maintenance 
of  schools,  the  equipment  of  hospitals,  etc.,  it  will  be  evident 
that,  the  demands  of  the  Mission  are  many  and  varied. 
This  department  by  its  ability  to  purchase  wholesale  enables 
the  Mission  and  missionaries  to  effect  many  economies,  and 
by  being  worked  on  a  purely  business  basis,  it  is  kept 
independent  of  mission  funds,  though  an  integral  part  of  the 
Mission. 

The  Business  Department  in  Shanghai,  ably  conducted 
for  many  years  by  Mr.  M.  Hardman,  was  commenced  in 
1884,  with  a  small  sum  for  capital  contributed  by  the  late 
Mr.  Thomas  Pigott.1  At  first  goods  were  purchased  locally, 
but  now  supplies  are  obtained  from  the  United  Kingdom, 
Canada,  Australasia,  the  United  States,  Italy,  India,  and 
Singapore.  This  Shanghai  centre  deals  with  fourteen 
smaller  business  departments  in  the  interior,  and  these  in 
their  turn  despatch  the  goods  to,  or  receive  orders  from, 
those  stations  under  their  jurisdiction.  Quarterly  orders 
are  made  up  for  London  for  such  goods  as  are  not  stocked 
and  cannot  be  economically  obtained  locally.  Through 
this  same  department  friends  at  home  are  able  to  forward 
parcels  or  boxes  to  workers  located  at  any  station  in  China.2 

To  show  the  nature  and  extent  of  this  department's 
operations,  it  may  be  mentioned  that  during  one  year  more 
than  £7000  worth  of  goods  were  sent  into  the  interior,  of 
which  80  per  cent  came  directly  out  of  stock.  Among 
these  goods  were  800  cases  of  tinned  milk  and  6  tons  of 
soap,  all  of  which  goods  were  unprocurable  inland. 

Another  important  branch  of  the  work  in  Shanghai  is 
the  Treasurer's  Department,  which  was  organized  as  a 
separate  office  in  1886,  when  the  late  Mr.  James  F.  Broumton 

1  This  sum  has  been  added  to  during  the  past  thirty  years  by  the 
gradual  accumulation  of  a  small  percentage  of  profit  as  the  department  has 
grown.  No  funds  contributed  for  the  work  of  the  Mission  have  been 
appropriated  for  the  Business  Department. 

a  During  1913  the  London  Business  Department  despatched  1250 
packages  weighing  in  all  100  tons,  in  addition  to  10  tons  of  personal  baggage. 


THE  MISSION  FROM  WITHIN  317 

was  appointed  Treasurer  in  China,  which  post  he  held  until 
1905,  when  he  was  compelled  finally  to  leave  the  country 
on  account  of  ill-health.  For  the  first  four  or  five  years 
the  headquarters  of  this  department  were  at  Wuchang,  but 
these  were  transferred  to  Shanghai  about  1891,  Mr.  J.  N. 
Hayward,  the  present  Treasurer,  being  appointed  as  Mr. 
Broumton's  colleague  in  August  1892.  Mr.  Hayward 
became  Acting-Treasurer  in  February  1903,  and  full  Treasurer 
in  October  1905  ;  Mr.  George  Howell  being  appointed  as 
his  colleague  in  May  1904,  and  as  Assistant-Treasurer  in 
October  1908. 

A  few  details  as  to  the  modus  operandi  of  this  important 
department,  which  Mr.  Hayward  has  so  ably  organized  and 
superintended  for  some  twenty  years,  will  be  of  interest. 
All  the  funds  received  from  the  several  home  countries  are 
centralized  at  Shanghai,  where  also  all  the  accounts  of  the 
Shanghai  and  other  up-country  business  departments  are 
audited,  a  monthly  balance-sheet  being  rendered  by  every 
business  centre.  Some  idea  of  the  complexity  of  these 
accounts  may  be  gathered  when  it  is  known  that  separate 
accounts  have  to  be  kept  for  all  the  Associate  Missions,  for 
the  Chefoo  and  Ruling  Schools,  for  all  the  special  funds 
contributed  for  individuals,  for  selected  Chinese  workers  or 
scholars,  etc.,  each  gift  having  to  be  remitted  to  that  station 
for  which  it  is  designated 

Up  to  the  year  1905  remittances  were  forwarded  monthly 
to  the  various  mission  stations,  but  as  the  membership  of 
the  Mission  grew,  and  the  work  of  one  month  overlapped 
that  of  another,  quarterly  payments  commenced  as  from 
January  1906.  The  income  of  three  months,  as  received 
from  home,  is  accumulated  in  Shanghai  for  the  outgoings 
of  the  succeeding  quarter,  for  the  Mission  only  spends  as  it 
receives,  and  never  overdraws  on  the  bank  or  goes  into  debt. 
Regular  estimates  are  received  in  Shanghai  quarter  by 
quarter  from  all  the  stations,  these  estimates  being  approved 
by  the  superintendent  of  the  district.  Quarterly  accounts 
also  have  to  be  sent  in,  these  all  being  rendered  in  the 
Shanghai  currency,  which  in  itself  is  no  small  task,  since 
every  district  has  its  own  local  weights  and  measures.  The 


3i8  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

estimates  sent  in  are  all  in  two  parts,  one  relating  to  that 
work  for  which  the  Mission  has  already  accepted  responsi 
bility,  and  one  relating  to  new  items.  During  the  third 
month  of  each  quarter  the  General  Director,  or  his  Deputy, 
and  the  Treasurer  or  Assistant  Treasurer,  spend  two  or 
three  days  carefully  considering  these  estimates  in  the  light 
of  available  funds.  Separate  entries  for  each  payment  and 
receipts  for  the  same  are  made  out  in  Shanghai,  these  receipts 
when  signed  being  forwarded  to  the  home  countries  for 
purposes  of  official  audit. 

Though  the  advices  are  posted  direct  to  each  station, 
the  money,  for  the  most  part,  is  sent  through  the  business 
departments,  which  keep  accounts  with  the  stations  con 
cerned.  In  some  cases  silver  is  forwarded  by  post ;  but  in  an 
ever-increasing  number  of  instances  missionaries  are  able 
to  obtain  money  from  local  banks  or  merchants  in  exchange 
for  cheques  on  Shanghai.  In  some  of  the  provinces  near 
the  coast  cheques  on  the  Hongkong  and  Shanghai  Bank 
can  easily  be  cashed  to-day. 

In  addition  to  all  this  regular  work  the  Treasurer's 
department,  with  the  view  to  facilitate  the  remittance  of 
certain  sums  of  money  within  the  Mission,  has  issued  a  series 
of  dollar  notes  for  the  use  of  missionaries  in  China  only, 
which  notes  can  only  be  circulated  and  cashed  within  the 
mission  circle.  For  the  sending  of  money  home  to  England 
or  other  countries,  a  series  of  Credit  Notes  has  been  prepared, 
which  can  be  forwarded  by  any  worker  in  China  to  the 
Secretary  in  any  of  the  home  countries,  with  a  request  that 
he  will  send  the  equivalent  to  the  person  named.  Private 
banking  accounts  have  also  been  opened  for  workers  in  the 
interior  where  this  is  desired  or  necessary,  special  business 
department  cheque  books  having  been  printed  for  this 
purpose. 

No  trouble  has  been  spared  to  make  the  financial  arrange 
ments  of  the  Mission  as  efficient  and  as  helpful  to  the  work 
and  the  workers  as  possible,  and  it  is  only  saying  the  bare 
truth  when  we  state  that  the  Mission  has  been  greatly 
blessed  in  those  who  have  organized  and  conducted  the 
Treasury  and  Business  departments  of  the  Mission.  The 


THE  MISSION  FROM  WITHIN  319 

heavy  and  exacting  labours  involved  have  only  been  faintly 
outlined,  but  it  will  be  evident  to  all  that  the  burden  of 
responsibility  is  not  growing  less,  but  rather  otherwise. 
Increasing  demands  are  ever  pressing  upon  the  Mission  as 
the  work  grows  and  expands,  while  the  Income  seems  at 
times  hardly  equally  elastic.  Though  the  aim  of  the  Mission 
is  to  found  a  self-supporting  and  self-governing  Church, 
the  rapidly  increasing  cost  of  living  ;  the  need  to  care  for  the 
widows  of  deceased  Chinese  helpers  ;  the  inevitable  increase, 
as  the  work  grows  older,  of  those  who  through  advancing 
years  or  failing  health  have  to  retire ;  the  multiplication  of 
stations  and  out-stations,  with  all  the  varied  claims  of  the 
work  connected  with  each,  together  with  the  recent  cessation 
of  the  Morton  legacy,  and  the  limitations  imposed  upon 
many  would-be  givers  by  the  present  war,  all  combine  to 
entail  upon  the  Treasurer's  department  a  specially  heavy 
and  exacting  task. 

It  is  from  Shanghai  also  that  the  work  of  the  Mission  is 
in  general  directed.  In  some  respects  the  position  of  the 
C.I.M.  is  the  very  opposite  of  other  Missions.  Other  Societies 
have  their  headquarters  in  one  of  the  home-lands,  and  their 
missions  in  many  different  countries  ;  in  the  case  of  the 
C.I.M.  the  home  departments  are  in  several  countries,  while 
the  work  itself  is  in  China  only,  so  that  in  China  alone  is  it 
possible  for  all  the  various  home  departments  to  find  their 
focus.  Here,  therefore,  the  General  Director  resides,  keeping 
in  closest  touch  with  the  workers  on  the  field,  and  with  the 
several  home  departments.  Many  and  far-reaching  are  the 
questions  which  he,  and  those  associated  with  him,  have  to 
settle  in  Shanghai.  Here  the  relative  claims  of  some  two 
hundred  stations  have  to  be  considered,  whether  it  be  for 
reinforcements,  or  for  relief  for  furlough.  Here  has  to  be 
decided  the  designation  of  new  workers,  which  decision 
involves  the  careful  consideration  of  temperament,  training, 
capacity,  together  with  the  needs  and  problems  of  the 
station  to  which  the  new  worker  goes.  Delicate  questions 
affecting  the  personal  relationships  and  affinities  of  workers, 
whether  foreign  or  Chinese,  demand  constant  thought  ; 


320  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

while  problems  concerning  comity  with  other  Missions  or 
the  delineation  of  boundaries,  some  of  which  have  taken 
years  to  settle,  call  for  detailed  consideration.  Here  in 
Shanghai  are  discussed  problems  concerning  independent 
Church  movements,  the  ownership  of  Church  property, 
persecutions,  questions  affecting  policy  and  progress,  and  a 
variety  of  subjects  too  many  to  enumerate. 

To  Shanghai  are  sent  monthly  reports  from  the  mission 
aries,  as  well  as  an  annual  report  from  every  station  ;  and  to 
the  acknowledging  of  these  must  be  added  the  multitudinous 
correspondence,  often  of  a  personal  nature,  arising  from 
circumstances  which  call  for  counsel  and  decision  in  questions 
of  difficulty  and  importance,  cheer  in  the  case  of  discourage 
ment,  or  sympathy  in  the  case  of  sickness  or  bereavement. 
In  Shanghai  are  kept  the  many  Deeds  of  mission  property 
in  China,  all  records  connected  with  furloughs,  marriages, 
births,  deaths,  and  examinations.  And  here  is  felt  im 
mediately  any  special  strain  arising  from  crises  such  as  the 
Boxer  outbreak  or  the  recent  Revolution.  Twenty  years 
ago  the  greater  part  of  the  correspondence  connected  with 
the  general  direction  of  the  work  could  be  accomplished  by 
the  General  Director,  his  Deputy,  and  Mr.  James  Stark, 
but  to-day  four  stenographers  and  typists  are  needed  to 
keep  pace  with  the  many  demands  of  the  work. 

For  the  systematic  ordering  of  the  records  and  the 
methodical  handling  of  a  vast  amount  of  important  corre 
spondence,  the  warmest  tribute  is  due  to  Mr.  James  Stark, 
who  for  some  years  has  graciously  and  ably  discharged  the 
duties  and  responsibilities  of  Secretary  in  Shanghai.  It 
need  hardly  be  added  that  it  is  not  only  the  quantity  of 
correspondence  which  taxes  those  responsible  for  directing 
the  work  in  Shanghai,  but  more  especially  its  nature  and 
character  ;  and  it  has  been  with  a  desire  to  enable  the  reader 
more  intelligently  to  pray  for  those  upon  whom  this  burden 
of  direction  rests  that  this  imperfect  glimpse  into  the  Mission 
from  within  has  been  given. 

But  this  chapter,  which  deals  so  largely,  though  not 
exclusively,  with  the  headquarters  at  Shanghai,  must  not 
close  without  the  warmest  and  most  grateful  reference  to 


THE  MISSION  FROM  WITHIN  321 

the  work  of  the  ladies.  No  one  can  visit  Shanghai  and  fail 
to  remember  the  gracious  and  self -forgetful  services  of  Mrs. 
Lachlan  and  Miss  Oakeshott  in  the  home,  or  the  equally 
valuable  and  helpful  ministry  of  the  other  lady  workers, 
both  single  and  married,  in  the  hospital  and  business 
departments.  The  Shanghai  Compound,  with  its  residents 
who  are  servants  of  all,  is  a  place  for  which  to  give  thanks 
to  God  upon  every  remembrance. 


XLVII 
THE   REVOLUTION   AND   AFTER 

THROUGHOUT  the  whole  history  of  missions  threatening 
clouds  of  war  have,  with  more  or  less  frequency,  darkened 
the  sky.  Since  Mr.  Taylor  first  reached  China  the  Taiping 
rebellion  and  Crimean  war,  the  Indian  Mutiny  and  second 
Opium  war,  the  Tientsin  massacre  and  Franco-Prussian 
war,  the  French  and  Japanese  wars  with  China,  the  South 
African  war  and  Boxer  crisis,  the  Russian  war  with  Japan, 
and  finally  the  Revolution,  not  to  speak  of  the  present 
world-wide  conflict,  have  seriously  affected  mission  work 
in  that  land.  Throughout  all  these  trying  years,  and 
through  days  made  anxious  and  perilous  by  innumerable 
local  riots  and  rebellions,  the  work  has  been  steadily 
maintained.  Though  the  rough  winds  have  blown, 
the  seed  has  been  sown  ;  and  though  the  storm-clouds 
have  burst,  the  ever-increasing  harvest  of  soul  has  been 
garnered. 

For  nearly  forty-seven  years  the  Mission's  work  was 
carried  on  under  Manchu  rule,  but  towards  the  close  of  the 
fifth  decade  the  era  of  the  so-called  Republic  began.  The 
masterful  rule  of  the  famous  Empress  Dowager,  Tsu  Hsi, 
closed  with  her  death  and  the  simultaneous  decease  of  the 
Emperor,  Kwang  Hsu,  in  November  1908.  In  the  months 
of  October  1909  and  1910  respectively  the  new  Provincial 
and  National  Assemblies  met  for  the  first  time  ;  but  in 
October  of  the  following  year  the  long-planned  and  care 
fully  organized  Revolution  broke  forth.  The  abdication  of 
the  Manchus  followed  on  February  12,  1912,  and  three 

322 


THE  REVOLUTION  AND  AFTER  323 

days  later  H.E.  Yuan  Shih-kai  was  elected  as  Provisional 
President. 

During  the  reign  of  terror  which  preceded  and  followed 
this  change  of  government  some  of  the  finest  and  most 
wealthy  cities  of  China  were  looted  and  given  over  to  the 
soldiery.  Though  both  of  the  contending  parties  were 
anxious  to  protect  the  lives  and  property  of  foreigners,  yet 
the  virtual  suspension  of  settled  government  in  many  parts 
of  the  country  gave  liberty  to  a  criminal  and  lawless  section 
of  the  population  to  rob  and  plunder.  Those  missionaries 
who,  acting  under  consular  instructions,  withdrew  to  the 
coast,  and  those  who  were  enabled  to  remain  on  at  their 
stations,  passed  through  many  seen  and  unseen  perils.  At 
Sianfu,  sad  to  relate,  Mrs.  Beckman  and  her  two  children, 
also  Mr.  Vatne  and  four  other  children  of  the  Scandinavian 
Alliance  missionaries  associated  with  the  C.I.M.,  were 
murdered  by  a  lawless  mob  on  October  22,  1911.  Two  or 
three  other  stations  were  looted,  and  several  workers  had 
narrow  escapes.  But  in  view  of  the  wide  and  grave  dis 
orders  which  existed  it  was  a  cause  for  thanksgiving  that 
so  few  suffered. 

In  the  midst  of  these  distressing  conditions,  which  lasted 
with  varying  intensity  for  many  months,  and  if  the  depreda 
tions  of  the  famous  brigand  chief,  White  Wolf,  be  included, 
continued  for  some  two  years,  the  missionaries  were  able, 
in  the  majority  of  their  stations,  to  continue  their  labours. 
Unusual  opportunities  were  afforded  by  the  stress  of  the 
times  for  winning  the  hearts  of  the  people.  In  not  a  few 
stations  the  Mission  premises  were  besieged  by  the  terrified 
people,  especially  by  the  women,  who  begged  to  be  allowed 
to  take  refuge  with  the  foreigner.  Many  openings  were 
also  afforded  for  Red  Cross  work,  for  the  care  of  destitute 
refugees  where  houses  and  property  had  been  destroyed  by 
artillery  fire  or  by  depredatory  bands  of  soldiers.  In  several 
instances  the  missionaries,  by  request  of  the  local  authorities, 
acted  as  intermediaries  between  the  revolutionary  and 
imperial  troops,  and  by  such  intervention  several  cities 
were  spared  the  horrors  of  pillage  and  violence.  By  these 
and  other  means  a  powerful  and  practical  witness  was 


324  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 


borne  in  the  midst  of  civil  war  to  the  Christian  Faith  among 
classes  of  people  who  in  ordinary  circumstances  had  been 
quite  indifferent  and  even  hostile  to  its  influence.  Large 
numbers  of  these  people  turned  from  their  idols  and  banded 
themselves  together  in  classes  for  the  study  of  the  Gospel. 

The  coming  of  the  Republic  was  heralded  by  not  a  few 
as  though  it  was  the  beginning  of  the  millennium  in  China, 
but  though  time  has  proved,  as  might  have  been  expected, 
that  a  mere  change  of  government  cannot  change  the  heart 
of  man,  the  Revolution  was  undoubtedly  accompanied  by 
a  most  extraordinary  opportunity  for  preaching  the  Gospel. 
There  was  awakened  on  all  hands  an  almost  passionate 
desire  for  better  things  than  the  past  had  afforded,  and 
many  sought  to  find  their  ideal  in  Christianity.  One  notable 
illustration  of  this,  which  took  place  in  the  very  city  where 
Mr.  Taylor  was  so  seriously  rioted  in  the  early  days,  may  be 
given  in  Mr.  A.  R.  Saunders'  own  words  : 

Large  numbers  of  troops  were  being  mobilized  in  and  around 
Yangchow  under  General  Hsu  Pao-san.  At  that  time  there  existed 
in  China  a  fund  for  the  distribution  of  Christian  literature,  and  the 
time  seemed  most  opportune  to  distribute  Gospel  portions  and  tracts 
amongst  the  fifteen  thousand  troops  then  congregated  in  and  around 
that  city.  But  previous  attempts  to  obtain  permission  from  the 
Manchu  Government  had  failed.  Almost  every  conceivable  excuse 
was  given  why  we  should  not  undertake  such  a  work,  and  refusal  on 
this  occasion  seemed  almost  inevitable.  However,  after  prayer,  I 
sent  my  card  to  the  office  of  a  small  military  official.  I  would  rather 
risk  refusal  from  him  than  from  the  General  himself,  but  my  card  and 
my  request  reached  the  General,  and  he  asked  for  an  interview.  The 
result  of  that  interview  was  that,  not  only  were  we  granted  permission 
to  distribute  Scripture  portions  and  tracts  to  the  troops,  but  he  said, 
"  Preach  to  them  "  ;  and  his  own  brother,  who  was  then  Military 
Governor  of  the  city,  was  appointed  to  accompany  us  as  we  visited 
the  various  camps.  Seven  half  days  were  employed  in  that  work,  and 
we  visited  all  the  camps.  We  were  received  with  military  honours 
at  each  camp,  and  we  had  an  opportunity  of  personal  conversation 
with  the  regimental  officers.  The  troops  were  then  drawn  up  in  hollow 
square,  and,  with  the  Military  Governor  of  the  city  and  the  officers, 
we  took  our  stand  in  the  middle  of  the  square,  and  for  half  an  hour 
we  preached  the  Gospel  to  the  men.  The  books  were  then  distributed, 
but  not  by  us  ;  we  simply  had  to  hand  them  out  in  packets,  and  the 


THE  REVOLUTION  AND  AFTER  325 

officers  distributed  them  to  their  own  men.  Moreover,,  the  General 
gave  us  a  badge  to  admit  us  into  any  camp,  without  question,  for  the 
purpose  of  preaching  the  Gospel.  It  bears  the  General's  own  seal, 
with  the  words  on  one  side,  "  A  deputy  of  JESUS  to  preach  the  Gospel." 
Returning  after  a  month's  itineration,  I  was  going  along  the  street 
when  the  General's  secretary  met  me  and  said,  "  The  General  would 
like  to  see  you."  I  went.  He  talked  for  a  while  about  digging  out 
canals,  and  in  the  course  of  our  conversation,  I  said,  "  General,  what 
are  you  going  to  do  with  all  those  men  on  Sundays  ?  They  do  not 
drill."  Imagine  my  surprise  when  he  turned  to  me  and  said,  "  I  would 
like  you  to  preach  to  them."  "  All  right,"  I  said,  "  you  find  the  place. 
You  give  the  necessary  orders,  and  I  will  see  to  the  preaching,"  and 
we  fixed  the  5th  of  May  last  year  for  the  opening  meeting.  It  may 
appear  a  mere  coincidence,  but  to  me  it  is  a  most  interesting  one,  that 
the  first  year  of  that  work  was  completed  on  the  very  day  of  prayer  for 
China,  the  last  Sunday  of  April.  Well,  we  started  those  meetings,  and 
at  the  first  three  meetings  only  officers  and  non-commissioned  officers 
were  asked  to  attend.  This  was  by  the  General's  own  request,  for  he 
said,  "  Get  the  officers,  and  you  have  got  the  men."  The  staff  officers 
occupied  the  platform  ;  the  officers  were  in  the  body  of  the  hall,  and 
the  two  galleries  were  occupied  by  non-commissioned  officers.  A 
wonderful  gathering,  and  that  in  a  city  noted  for  its  anti-foreign  feeling, 
and  in  the  very  city  where  the  notable  riot  of  1868  took  place. 

Among  other  illustrations  of  the  changed  attitude,  not 
only  of  the  people,  but  of  the  officials,  may  be  mentioned 
the  publication  of  the  constitution  of  an  Independent  Church 
in  the  Shansi  Provincial  paper  signed  by  the  Governor  ; 
the  official  setting  apart  of  a  Day  of  Prayer  by  the  Govern 
ment  on  Sunday,  April  27, 1913  ;  the  opening  of  the  grounds 
of  the  historic  Altar  of  Heaven  at  Peking,  when  evangelistic 
services  were  held  upon  a  platform  where  formerly  the 
Emperor  prostrated  himself  in  worship  on  behalf  of  the 
nation.  These  and  other  almost  equally  noteworthy  and 
startling  events  emphasized  how  far  conservative  China 
had  moved  within  the  space  of  a  few  years. 

It  was,  however,  impossible  and  even  undesirable  that 
the  revolutionary  spirit  should  continue  indefinitely.  The 
moral  welfare  of  the  nation  was  being  seriously  imperilled 
by  the  over-hasty  and  indiscriminate  disregard  of  Confucian 
ethics — which  not  infrequently  are  in  harmony  with  God's 
law — before  the  Gospel  had  taken  a  serious  hold  upon  the 


326  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

life  of  the  people.  Licence  was  being  frequently  mistaken 
for  liberty,  and  republicanism  or  self-government  was  being 
interpreted,  or  rather  misinterpreted,  as  no  government  at 
all.  The  reaction  which  set  in  was  encouraged  and  sup 
ported  by  Yuan  Shih-kai,  who  in  his  inaugural  address  as 
President  used  the  following  noteworthy  words  : 

For  China  Confucianism  has  always  been  a  great  moral  safeguard; 
and  the  changes  and  chances  of  four  thousand  years  have  certainly 
left  the  essence  of  the  doctrine  secure  from  the  ravages  of  time.  The 
greatest  need  of  the  nation  can  be  summed  up  in  the  one  word  Morality. 
.  .  .  For  no  nation  can  stand  save  upon  the  eternal  verities  which 
underlie  right  and  wrong. 

How  far  the  reaction  has  yet  to  be  carried  time  alone 
can  show,1  but  it  has  been  under  conditions  such  as  these, 
when  the  pendulum  in  things  political  and  religious  has  been 
swinging  to  wide  extremes,  that  the  steadying  influence  of 
the  Gospel  has  been  quietly  making  itself  felt  throughout 
the  country.  Never  before  have  such  quantities  of  Christian 
literature  been  scattered  throughout  the  land.  Millions 
upon  millions  of  Gospel  portions  and  selected  Scriptures 
have  been  sold  and  distributed,  while  tens  of  thousands  of 
attractive  Gospel  posters  have  been  pasted  up  in  conspicuous 
and  commanding  positions.  In  the  Mission  stations  the 
regular  routine  of  work  has  been  continued,  while  special 
efforts  have  been  made  to  reach  the  masses.  Evangelistic 
campaigns  have  been  organized,  village  Tent  Missions 
arranged,  special  meetings  for  students  as  well  as  for  women 
have  been  held,  and  the  zeal  of  many  of  the  Christians  has 
stirred  up  the  Churches  to  more  aggressive  work. 

During  the  last  two  years  between  nine  thousand  and 
ten  thousand  persons  have  declared  their  faith  in  Christ 
by  baptism  in  connection  with  the  work  of  the  C.I.M.  alone, 
and  the  increasing  call  for  more  and  larger  chapels  is  an 
encouraging  though  embarrassing  evidence  of  progress.  In 
several  centres  already  chapels  to  seat  a  thousand  persons 

1  On  December  23,  1914,  Yuan  Shih-kai  performed  at  the  Altar  of 
Heaven  the  immemorial  rites  which  have  been  the  sole  prerogative  of  the 
Emperor.  The  journey  from  his  palace  to  the  temple  grounds  was  made 
in  an  armoured  motor-car  ! 


THE  REVOLUTION  AND  AFTER  327 

have  had  to  be  erected,  while  the  Gospel  is  regularly  preached 
in  nearly  a  thousand  smaller  village  chapels  apart  from  the 
larger  city  buildings  in  the  C.I.M.  central  stations.  In  more 
than  twelve  hundred  stations  and  out-stations  the  work  is 
being  daily  carried  on.  In  season  and  out  of  season,  in  city 
and  country,  by  word  of  mouth  and  printed  page,  by  kindly 
ministrations  to  the  sick  and  instruction  to  the  young,  the 
messengers  of  the  Gospel  are  seeking  to  save  men. 

Imperfectly,  it  may  be,  yet  none  the  less  sincerely  and 
humbly,  the  more  than  1000  Members  and  Associates  of  the 
Missions,  ably  assisted  by  some  2500  Chinese  helpers,  seek, 
in  the  great  work  of  evangelizing  China,  to  follow  the  example 
of  the  Apostle  Paul,  and  commend  themselves  in  everything 
"  as  ministers  of  God,  in  much  patience,  in  afflictions,  in 
necessities,  in  distresses,  in  stripes,  in  imprisonments,  in 
tumults,  in  labours,  in  watchings,  in  fastings  ;  in  pureness, 
in  knowledge,  in  long  suffering,  in  kindness,  in  the  Holy 
Ghost,  in  love  unfeigned,  in  the  word  of  truth,  in  the  power 
of  God  ;  by  the  armour  of  righteousness  on  the  right  hand 
and  on  the  left,  by  glory  and  dishonour,  by  evil  report  and 
good  report  ;  as  deceivers,  and  yet  true  ;  as  unknown,  and 
yet  well  known  ;  as  dying,  and  behold,  we  live  ;  as  chastened, 
and  not  killed  ;  as  sorrowful,  yet  always  rejoicing  ;  as  poor, 
yet  making  many  rich  ;  as  having  nothing,  and  yet  possessing 
all  things." 


XLVIII 
THE   MISSIONARY   AT   WORK 

IN  recording  the  growth  of  a  Mission  through  a  course  of 
fifty  years,  during  which  period  "  the  little  one  "  literally 
has  become  "  a  thousand/'  it  has  not  been  possible,  without 
greatly  enlarging  the  size  of  this  volume,  to  do  more  than 
outline  the  special  developments  which  have  marked  the 
extension  of  the  work.  Space  has  unfortunately  not  allowed 
many  typical  extracts  from  letters  and  reports  revealing 
the  missionary  in  the  midst  of  his  active  life  and  work, 
though  he  who  reads  between  the  lines  will  not  fail  to  realize 
something  of  the  dangers  and  hardships  which  the  mission 
aries  have  had,  and  still  have,  to  undergo,  and  the  spirit  in 
which  they  have  done  so.  To  supply  the  lack  in  some 
measure  this  and  the  following  chapter  will  be  devoted  to  a 
few  selections  showing  the  missionary  engaged  in  his  varied 
manner  of  service. 

It  is  sometimes  erroneously  believed  that  the  dangers 
and  privations  attending  the  work  of  the  early  days  have 
passed  away,  but  this  is  far  from  true.  It  is  a  simple  fact 
that  as  great  self-denial,  courage  and  devotion  are  needed 
to-day  as  in  the  early  days  of  the  work,  though  conditions 
have  in  many  respects  changed.  Within  the  last  few 
months,  for  instance,  rumours  so  absurd  that  it  is  hardly 
conceivable  that  credence  would  be  given  them  have  been 
in  circulation  in  Chekiang.  The  taking  of  a  census  of 
children  under  fourteen  years  of  age  by  the  Board  of 
Education  gave  rise  to  reports  that  the  foreigners  were 
somewhere  building  a  bridge,  for  the  support  of  the  founda- 

328 


THE  MISSIONARY  AT  WORK  329 

tions  of  which  the  spirits  of  children  were  wanted.  As  a 
result  many  Government  Schools  were  destroyed  and  some 
Mission  ones  were  threatened,  and  had  it  not  been  that  the 
authorities  took  prompt  and  vigorous  action,  the  situation 
might  have  become  serious. 

If  we  pass  from  Chekiang  to  the  Province  of  Honan,  for 
instance,  we  find  the  missionary  at  work  in  the  midst  of  a 
state  of  lawlessness  which  imperils  both  life  and  operations. 
The  depredations  of  brigand  bands,  connected  with  White 
Wolf  or  encouraged  by  his  successes,  have  recently  brought 
the  greater  part  of  that  province  into  a  condition  of  anarchy. 
Mr.  H.  S.  Conway,  writing  last  year  of  Shekichen,  said  : 

This  has  been  a  most  tragic  year  for  us,  as  our  workers  and  station 
have  been  in  one  constant  condition  of  peril  by  robbers.  For  the  last 
seven  months  our  circuit  Evangelist  has  had  to  break  off  his  rounds 
at  the  fourth  out-station,  for  beyond  that  the  roads  were  impass 
able.  The  usual  autumn  Conference  was  quite  impracticable.  School- 
work  has,  with  a  few  exceptions,  come  to  a  standstill,  whilst  colportage 
and  evangelistic  work  in  the  country  have  been  greatly  hindered. 
On  the  other  hand,  never  have  we  known  a  larger  opportunity  than  the 
crowded  towns  have  afforded  us.  To  speak  of  Shekichen  alone,  over 
7000  families  have  been  registered  at  the  gates  as  refugees,  and  our 
chapels  are  one  long  scene  of  curious  people  coming  to  see  and  hear. 
The  number  of  voluntary  preachers,  helping  in  the  hall  and  on  the 
streets,  has  been  a  real  encouragement.  .  .  . 

I  can  only  summarize  some  of  the  items  which  have  cost  us  so  much 
to  bear  and  to  deal  with,  and  in  this  we  have  realized  something  of 
what  the  Apostle  Paul  meant  when  he  spoke  of  "  the  care  of  all  the 
Churches,"  and  we  have  prayed  that  with  him  we  might  be  able  to 
say,  "  Who  is  offended  and  I  burn  not  ?  " 

Seven  times  have  our  out-stations  been  plundered  ;  four  times  have 
robbers  been  quartered  on  our  premises  ;  nineteen  times  have  workers 
been  held  up  and  more  or  less  robbed  by  highwaymen ;  twice  have 
workers  been  condemned  to  be  shot,  but  the  Lord  delivered  them ; 
one  worker  was  however  shot,  and  still  lies  in  a  precarious  condition  ; 
two  of  the  Christians  have  been  killed  ;  three  times  have  Christians 
been  seized  and  held  for  ransom  ;  seven  times  have  their  homes  been 
wholly  or  partially  destroyed ;  five  times  has  the  Lord  interposed  to 
deliver  their  homes  from  fire,  when  on  each  occasion  nearly  the  whole 
village  was  burned  ;  eleven  times  have  their  homes  been  wholly  or 
partially  plundered.  .  .  . 

Christmas  Day  was  an  exciting  day  for  us,  for  at  3.30  A.M.  the  noted 


330  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

"  White  Wolf  "  with  2000  of  his  men  attacked  the  town  noiselessly  : 
great  scaling  ladders  were  placed  against  the  wall.  However,  they 
were  detected  and  repelled.  .  .  .  The  Military  Governor  of  the 
province  has  issued  a  proclamation  requesting  all  missionaries  to  leave 
their  stations  during  these  dangerous  days.  I  have  received  no  less 
than  nine  such  notifications  from  one  source  or  another,  but  knowing 
that  to  leave  would  greatly  precipitate  troubles,  we  are  all  staying  on, 
unless  otherwise  advised  by  our  Consuls. 

These  extracts  concerning  Shekichen  have  been  given  in 
preference  to  others  because  they  summarize  so  briefly  the 
trials  and  hardships  which  have  been  endured  at  many 
stations,  some  of  which  have  suffered  even  more  than 
Shekichen.  At  Liuanchow  in  Anhwei  the  whole  city  was 
sacked  and  burned  with  fire,  one  Roman  Catholic  priest 
was  shot,  though  mercifully  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Entwistle  and 
their  two  boys  were  spared  after  many  painful  experiences. 
Kwangchow  in  Honan  and  Laohokow  in  Hupeh,  and  other 
cities  fell  into  the  hands  of  the  brigands,  resulting  in  dreadful 
loss  of  life  and  property  to  the  Chinese,  and  considerable 
danger  and  hardship  to  the  workers.1 

From  these  scenes  in  the  populous  plains  of  Central 
China  let  us  pass  to  the  hills  of  the  south-west,  where  the 
varied  non-Chinese  races  have  their  rude  habitations.  Let 
us  in  spirit  accompany  Dr.  E.  S.  Fish  on  his  first  medical 
missionary  journey  among  the  hills  of  Kweichow,  a  journey 
lasting  six  weeks,  and  extending  over  some  600  English  miles 
of  mountainous  country,  when  between  1200  and  1500 
patients  were  cared  for.  We  must  be  up  by  daylight,  and 
after  a  light  meal  mount  our  shaggy  mountain  ponies.  Day 
after  day  we  ascend  and  descend  narrow  and  dangerous 
roads,  frequently  with  only  a  step  between  us  and  death. 
We  pass,  sometimes  unconsciously,  robbers  armed  to  the 
teeth,  lying  in  ambush,  waiting  for  their  unsuspecting 
victims.  Through  long  stretches  of  desolate  wilderness, 
the  natural  abode  of  wild  animals,  we  press  on,  peering  ahead 
when  darkness  falls  for  the  first  glimmer  of  some  welcome 
camp  fire.  Through  pouring  rain  and  over  narrow  passes, 

1  At  Laohokow  Dr.  Froyland  of  the  Norwegian  Lutheran  Mission  was 
killed  and  his  colleague,  Rev.  O.  M.  Sama,  seriously  wounded. 


THE  MISSIONARY  AT  WORK  331 

we  make  our  way  from  village  to  village,  sometimes  stopping 
to  light  a  fire,  with  long  grass  for  fuel,  to  boil  some  water 
and  make  a  basin  of  oatmeal.  Swift  and  dangerous  rivers, 
which  every  year  exact  their  toll  of  human  life,  have  to  be 
forded,  and  we  are  glad  when  night  falls  to  enter  one  of  the 
little  Miao  villages  situated  in  its  amphitheatre  of  hills. 

These  houses  usually  contain  three  compartments.  At 
one  end  is  the  living-room,  with  a  hole  in  the  mud  floor  for 
a  stove.  The  presence  of  a  sleeping-mat,  a  few  rags  in  one 
corner,  or  a  few  boards  resting  on  two  blocks  of  wood, 
indicate  the  place  reserved  for  sleep.  In  the  middle  com 
partment  are  found  the  farm  implements,  while  the  third 
part  of  the  house  is  reserved  for  the  animals.  The  partitions 
are  frequently  low  and  made  of  branches  ingeniously  woven 
together.  Thankful  for  this  shelter,  such  as  it  is, — and  we 
readily  become  accustomed  to  such  accommodation, — we 
settle  for  the  night  among  the  farm  implements,  in  close 
proximity  to  the  pig-pen  ! 

And  now  we  must  allow  Dr.  Fish  to  tell  his  own  experi 
ences.  It  is  August  25,  1913. 

"  I  arose  early,"  he  writes,  "  about  5  o'clock,  hoping  to  have  a 
quiet  time  to  myself  before  the  duties  of  the  day  began.  However, 
it  was  to  be  otherwise,  for  I  had  no  sooner  arisen  than  patients  began 
to  come  and  continued  all  day  long.  Only  with  the  greatest  difficulty 
was  I  able  to  get  away  for  my  meals.  For  over  twelve  hours  I  was 
just  as  busy  as  I  could  be.  When  I  returned  from  dinner,  they  were 
lined  up  outside  the  door  for  a  considerable  distance,  while  the  inside 
was  packed  with  men,  women,  and  children  waiting  for  a  chance  to 
press  their  way  up  the  ladder  where  I  was  at  work.  I  must  have  seen 
nearly  four  hundred  patients. 

August  30. — "  Yesterday  we  arrived  at  another  chapel.  As  soon  as 
I  had  spread  out  my  bedding  and  made  the  necessary  preparations, 
I  began  to  examine  the  patients  who  had  already  gathered  to  await 
our  arrival.  There  was  one  continuous  stream  all  day.  An  old  lady 
came  in  rather  a  unique  vehicle.  Being  very  poor  and  having  no 
proper  chair,  she  was,  however,  quite  equal  to  the  occasion.  A  table 
turned  upside  down  and  fastened  between  two  bamboo  poles  served 
very  well  as  a  sedan  chair.  Alas  !  her  disease  was  such  that  I  could 
do  but  little  for  her. 

August  31. — "  Sunday  evening,  just  before  dark,  two  men  came  to 
ask  for  medicine  for  an  old  couple  and  a  child — too  ill  to  come  them- 


332  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

selves.  I  was  unable  to  send  medicine  but  said  I  would  go  to  see  them. 
So,  taking  my  Chinese  paper  lantern  and  a  box  of  matches,  we  started 
out.  Our  path  led  under  the  spreading  branches  of  a  beautiful  walnut 
tree,  through  cornfields,  over  stony  bits  of  road,  down  the  hillside, 
till,  finally,  crossing  an  old  stone  bridge,  we  arrived  at  the  humble 
home.  The  dogs  of  the  neighbourhood  sought  to  impede  our  passage, 
but  my  guide  was  well  armed  with  a  long  stick,  and  I  followed  closely 
at  his  heels.  On  reaching  the  house,  one  of  the  men  pushed  open  the 
brush  door  and  told  me  to  enter.  I  did  so,  and  stepping  inside,  stood 
for  a  moment  and  looked  about  me.  On  my  right  hand  was  the  flimsy 
partition  which  separated  the  flocks  from  the  only  other  room,  and 
one  could  hear  the  heavy  breathing  of  the  animals,  which  also  spoke 
of  their  close  proximity.  In  the  centre  of  the  room  was  a  smouldering 
fire — the  only  source  of  heat  and  light.  At  first,  I  could  see  but  two 
persons,  an  old  man,  and  a  young  man  about  thirty  years  of  age. 
They  were  sitting  opposite  each  other  in  the  characteristic  fashion, 
which  is  the  squatting  posture.  Then,  as  my  eyes  gradually  became 
accustomed  to  the  dim  light,  I  saw  an  object  across  the  room,  but  could 
not  make  out  what  it  was.  I  imagined  I  could  see  the  outline  of  a 
human  foot,  but  it  did  not  seem  possible  that  the  object  I  had  been 
scrutinizing  was  actually  a  person. 

"  As  I  was  about  to  step  forward,  I  looked  down  to  make  sure  of 
my  footing,  and  was  almost  startled  to  see  the  outline  of  a  bare  back 
lying  at  my  feet.  Nothing  else  was  visible  ;  but,  by  the  length  of  it, 
I  knew  it  to  be  that  of  a  child.  Kneeling  down,  I  turned  back  a  bit 
of  ragged  old  rug,  and  there  lay  a  boy  of  about  nine  years  of  age,  with 
his  back  turned  toward  the  fire.  Not  a  particle  of  clothing  covered 
his  body.  It  was  most  pathetic  to  see  a  child  of  such  tender  years 
lying  thus  upon  the  damp  mud  floor  in  the  grip  of  a  disease.  He 
resisted,  strongly,  every  effort  I  made  to  examine  him.  Evidently, 
he  did  not  wish  to  be  disturbed.  I  paused  a  moment,  then  carefully 
covered  him  again,  and  left  him  as  he  was,  for  the  simple  reason  that 
he  was  in  the  best  place  that  his  home  could  afford.  Then,  with  careful 
tread,  I  made  my  way  over  to  the  object  which  had  attracted  my 
attention  before,  but  which  I  could  not  believe  was  a  human  being. 
Turning  back  another  ragged  and  filthy  rug,  which  had  evidently 
seen  many  years  of  service,  I  beheld  a  sight  I  believe  I  shall  never 
forget.  A  woman  lay  there — dying.  She,  too,  was  lying  on  the 
damp  ground,  clad  in  the  scanty  remnant  of  what  was  once  a  garment. 
Her  hair  was  dishevelled,  her  form  emaciated,  both  eyes  glued  together 
with  a  copious  discharge,  and  her  four  limbs  so  entangled  that  I  could 
scarcely  find  a  place  to  put  my  stethoscope  on  her  chest.  She  made 
no  resistance.  Once  she  tried  to  speak,  but  her  strength  was  too  far 
gone.  She  had  reached  that  stage  where  she  was  quite  oblivious  to 
her  surroundings.  Already  she  was  entering  that  '  Land  from  whose 


THE  MISSIONARY  AT  WORK  333 

bourn  no  traveller  e'er  returns/  and  it  did  not  require  a  prolonged 
examination  to  satisfy  me  that  the  time  of  her  departure  was  at  hand. 

"  Having  examined  the  two  men,  I  was  about  to  leave,  but  stood 
for  a  moment  at  the  door,  before  turning  away  from  that  fireside 
scene,  the  memory  of  which  shall  long  remain.  All  that  passed 
through  my  mind  at  that  time  can  better  be  imagined  than  described. 
Gazing  upon  the  representatives  of  three  generations,  it  seemed  as 
though  I  never  realized  before  what  claims  these  people  have  upon 
me.  How  appalling  their  poverty  !  how  great  their  need  !  what  I 
had  just  seen  was  sufficient  to  influence  one's  entire  future  life.  And 
it  seems  to  me,  in  days  to  come,  when  I  may  be  tempted  to  spend 
money  for  the  gratification  of  my  own  desires,!  shall  think  of  this  night's 
experience  and  of  these  great  tribes  who  need  just  what,  in  a  measure, 
we  have  to  give.  I  was  a  little  surprised  to  find  the  man,  who  had 
escorted  me  to  the  house,  standing  by  my  side,  weeping.  Why  ? 
Because  that  woman  lying  in  such  a  pitiable  condition  was  his  mother. 
As  we  walked  slowly  back  through  the  cornfields  and  along  the  quiet 
unfrequented  pathway  I  could  not  help  thinking  of  all  that  I  had  just 
seen,  and  almost  unconsciously  I  found  myself  asking  myself  the  great 
unanswerable  questions  of  human  life  and  experience.  Why  was  it 
that  when  I  first  saw  the  light  it  was  not  through  the  open  end  of  a 
Miao  hut  ?  Why  had  a  kind  Providence  given  me  so  many  blessings 
that  had  been  denied  others  ?  Why  had  I  been  born  in  a  land  where 
the  only  true  God  is  known  by  all  and  loved  by  many,  while  others  are 
left  to  grope  along  in  the  darkness  of  a  starless  night,  knowing  not  at 
what  they  stumble,  sacrificing  to  demons,  burdened  with  superstitions 
and  fears — '  having  no  hope  and  without  God  in  the  world  '  ?  I  do 
not  know  the  '  Why  ?  '  but  I  believe  I  caught  a  glimpse  of  my  personal 
responsibility,  that  night,  such  as  I  had  not  before. 

"  While  giving  the  son  medicine — such  as  I  had  with  me — I  spoke 
to  him  of  the  Great  Physician  and  of  the  '  Land  that  is  fairer  than 
day  '  where  '  God  shall  wipe  away  all  tears  from  their  eyes  ;  and 
there  shall  be  no  more  death,  neither  sorrow,  nor  crying,  neither  shall 
there  be  any  more  pain  :  for  the  former  things  have  passed  away.' 
I  was  thankful  to  learn  that  his  mother  was  trusting  in  the  finished 
work  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ — the  only  Saviour  of  men,  wherever 
found,  whether  in  a  Miao  hut  or  in  the  palace  of  a  king." 

From  these  poverty-stricken  homes  among  the  hills  of 
Kweichow,  where  through  the  outpourings  of  the  Grace  of 
God  the  people,  though  poor,  are  frequently  spiritually  rich, 
let  us  pass  to  the  capital  of  the  neighbouring  province  of 
Szechwan  where  efforts  are  being  made  to  reach  the  wealthy 
but  spiritually  neglected  classes.  Here  are  situated  large 


334  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

and  important  Government  schools,  with  many  influential 
families.  The  spiritual  needs  of  both  scholars  and  their 
relations  have  been  laid  upon  the  hearts  of  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Hampson,  who  have,  in  consequence,  opened  their  home 
every  Sunday  afternoon  for  an  English  Bible  Class,  at 
the  request  of  the  Government  students  themselves.  The 
membership  of  this  class  within  a  few  months  rose  to  thirty, 
and  those  who  come  are  all  men  from  official  families  and 
wealthy  homes.  Some  come  from  the  Foreign  Office,  some 
from  the  Government  Law  School,  some  from  the  Foreign 
Language  School,  etc.  One  is  the  brother  of  the  Shanghai 
Likin  Officer,  another  is  the  nephew  of  the  Vice-President 
of  the  Provincial  Assembly,  and  another  a  good  French  and 
English  scholar  who  desires  to  go  abroad  to  study  inter 
national  law. 

Sunday  by  Sunday  these  men  arrive,  usually  coming 
early  and  manifesting  no  haste  to  go.  The  Gospel  of  Mark 
is  chosen  as  a  subject  for  study,  and  week  by  week  the  Life 
of  Our  Lord  is  read  and  discussed.  Some  of  these  men  are 
learning  the  value  of  prayer,  and  some  freely  seek  advice 
about  many  problems  and  even  personal  questions.  Many 
have  brought  their  families  and  friends  to  visit  their  hosts 
and  teachers,  and  in  this  way  the  missionaries  have  been 
brought  into  touch  with  many  wealthy  homes.  Is  it  strange 
that  the  missionaries'  hearts  go  out  to  these  needy  rich,  who 
are  counselled  to  buy  of  Christ  "  gold  refined  with  fire  " 
that  they  may  become  rich,  for,  as  Dr.  Fish  reminded  us, 
Christ  is  the  only  Saviour  "  wherever  found,  whether  in  a 
Miao  hut  or  in  the  palace  of  a  king." 

Our  next  place  of  call  is  not  far  removed,  for  a  short 
walk  will  bring  us  to  the  Bible  Training  School,  located 
within  the  same  city,  where  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Grainger  devote 
their  time  to  the  training  of  evangelists  and  preachers. 
Here  we  must  spend  a  whole  day  to  follow  the  routine  of 
these  students'  lives. 

The  bell  rings  at  8  A.M.  Mr.  Chang,  the  monitor  for  the  week, 
unlocks  the  class-room  door,  and  the  students  and  servants  troop  in 
for  morning  prayers,  led  by  Mr.  Chang,  while  Mr.  Ho  takes  the  organ. 


THE  MISSIONARY  AT  WORK  335 

8.15  A.M.  Worship  over,  breakfast  is  served.  Two  students,, 
chosen  by  ballot  at  the  beginning  of  the  month,  are  responsible  for  the 
commissariat,  thus  relieving  the  Principal  of  a  great  burden. 

9  A.M.  Promptly  on  time  the  bell  rings,  and  all  the  students,  both 
men  and  women,  again  meet  in  the  class-room.  God's  blessing  on  the 
work  of  the  day  having  been  sought,  the  teacher  begins  the  music 
lesson.  The  women  students  (students'  wives  all  of  them)  remain  to 
this  class,  and  the  teacher's  wife  presides  at  the  organ. 

9.30  A.M.  Repetition  of  memorized  Scripture  passages.  To-day's 
portion  is  Psalm  xxiii.  Each  rises  in  turn  and  repeats  carefully, 
giving  chapter  and  verse.  In  the  monthly  revision  exam,  the  portions 
selected  must  be  written  out  correctly  in  characters. 

940  A.M.  Bible  Study.  The  portion  for  to-day  is  Judges  xiv.-xvi., 
and  the  student  must  familiarize  himself  with  the  facts  of  the  lesson, 
making  notes  of  difficulties  needing  explanation. 

10.40  A.M.     Interval. 

10.45  A-M-  Lecture.  The  portion  just  studied,  the  story  of  Samson, 
is  now  expounded  in  detail,  the  students  taking  notes.  Seventy-five 
minutes'  talk  by  the  teacher  leaves  little  unexplained,  but  Mr.  Li 
would  like  to  know  what  became  of  the  gates  of  Gaza  ;  and  Mr.  Chang 
is  not  quite  clear  concerning  the  spiritual  significance  of  "  Howbeit 
the  hair  of  his  head  began  to  grow  again." 

12  noon.  The  teacher's  dinner-hour,  but  students  continue  to 
write  up  notes. 

1 2 .30  P.M.  Secular  studies.  Yesterday  we  took  Universal  History, 
and  to-morrow  we  shall  take  Geography,  but  to-day  being  Tuesday 
our  subject  is  Church  History,  and  we  have  just  reached  the  story 
of  the  persecutions  of  the  Christians  of  Lyons  and  Vienne.  The  text 
book  being  in  stiff  classical  Chinese,  obscure  phrases  and  uncommon 
characters  have  to  be  explained  before  the  lesson  can  be  proceeded 
with. 

1.30  P.M.  Class  on  Church  History,  with  warning  and  encourage 
ment  for  the  Church  of  to-day. 

2  P.M.    Students'  dinner-hour,  etc. 

3  P.M.     After  a  short  season  of  prayer  the  students  disperse  to  four 
street  chapels  in  different  districts.     A  few  minutes  later  the  teacher 
follows  ;  assisting  in  the  singing  of  a  hymn  and  collecting  of  a  crowd 
in  the  first  chapel,  listening  to  a  preacher  in  the  second,  quietly  passing 
by  the  third,  where  a  crowd  has  already  gathered  round  the  door,  and 
preaching  for  a  short  time  in  the  fourth. 

5  P.M.  The  students  are  now  free  for  two  hours,  some  taking  a  turn 
on  the  bars. 

7  P.M.    Memorizing  Scripture  and  general  revision. 

8  P.M.     A  gentle  tinkle  of  the  bell  is  a  signal  for  closing  books  and 
for  evening  prayers. 


336  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

Thus  terminates  one  day  in  term  time  in  one  of  the 
several  Bible  Training  Institutes  connected  with  the  Mission, 
where  many  of  the  coming  Chinese  leaders  are  being  trained 
for  future  service.  With  obvious  modifications  the  day 
outlined  may  be  taken  as  typical  of  the  routine  followed  in 
many  scores  of  Mission  schools. 


XLIX 
ALL  MANNER  OF  SERVICE 

OF  the  many  means  employed  to  make  known  the  Gospel 
to  the  Chinese,  the  C.I.M.  has  ever  given  the  first  place  to 
direct  evangelism.  That  we  may  gain  some  acquaintance 
with  this  important  form  of  service,  let  us  in  spirit  set  forth 
with  a  little  company — typical  of  many — bent  upon  a 
preaching  tour  in  that  part  of  Anhwei  which  is  south  of  the 
Yangtze.  The  party  consists  of  Mr.  A.  Mair,  Evangelist 
Tong,  a  cook,  two  coolies  to  carry  the  bedding  and  the 
books,  and  two  chair-bearers,  for  Mr.  Tong,  the  evangelist, 
is  not  physically  able  to  tramp  the  roads  as  the  missionary 
intends  to  do.  Our  purpose  is  to  pay  a  visit  to  Tong-shan- 
hsia,  an  out-station  sixty  miles  south  of  Anking,  and  we 
purpose  to  evangelize  the  places  en  route. 

The  first  stage  is  down  China's  great  central  waterway 
from  Anking  to  Chihchow,  and  for  this  we  take  passage  on  a 
launch  which  we  find  as  crowded  with  humanity,  both  above 
and  below  deck,  as  men  can  pack  themselves.  After  some 
hours  of  discomfort,  Chihchow  is  reached,  at  which  spot  we 
take  to  the  road,  and  about  six  o'clock  in  the  evening  we 
march  into  the  town  of  Ingchiahwei.  From  this  point  Mr. 
Mair  shall  tell  the  story  in  his  own  words  : 

The  day  has  been  warm,  for  it  is  well  on  in  March,  and  the  coolies 
are  tired  and  in  a  grumpy  mood.  Down  go  their  burdens  with  a  grunt 
of  relief  at  the  door  of  an  inn.  We  settle  in,  and  then  while  the  cook 
is  preparing  supper,  we  sally  forth,  accompanied  by  the  Evangelist 
with  books  and  tracts.  The  town  of  Ingchiahwei  is  one  long  busy 
street,  with  all  sorts  of  shops  and  dwelling-houses  mixed  together. 

337  Z 


338  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

It  has  the  worst  reputation  of  any  place  in  those  parts.  But  did 
not  the  Master  say  that  He  came  to  call  sinners  to  repentance  ?  As 
servants  of  the  Master  we  therefore  have  a  message  for  the  people 
of  Ingchiahwei. 

"  Here's  a  foreigner  ;  what  does  he  want  ?  "  says  one  man  to  another, 
as  we  near  the  entrance  gate  of  the  town.  In  answer  we  produce  our 
books  and  soon  a  crowd  gathers  around.  To  them  we  address  our 
selves. 

"  We  have  come  because  we  have  Good  News  for  you.  The  One 
True  God  loves  you  and  has  given  a  demonstration  of  His  love.  He 
sent  His  Son  to  die  on  a  cruel  cross  to  save  you  from  your  sins." 

"  How  much  for  your  books  ?  "  asks  a  small  fellow.  We  mention 
the  price — less  than  a  farthing  for  one  of  the  Gospels  with  an  illustrated 
leaflet  thrown  in. 

"  What  !  both  for  one  ch'ao  ?  "  he  asks  in  astonishment. 

"  Yes/'  we  reply. 

"  Then  I  want  a  book  and  a  picture/'  he  yells,,  making  a  grab  at  the 
bundle. 

"  I  want  too  ;  I  want  too/'  comes  from  all  sides,  and  many  hands 
are  thrust  forward  with  coppers. 

Alas  !  it  is  not  always  thus  that  such  eagerness  is  exhibited.  Some 
of  the  shopkeepers  are  as  nasty  and  as  bitter  as  they  can  be.  No 
sooner  do  we  cross  their  thresholds  than  they  snap  out — "  We  do  not 
want  your  books  ;  we  want  nothing  to  do  with  them."  As  the  night 
is  now  falling,  and  it  is  time  to  go  back  to  supper,  we  not  unwillingly 
retire.  The  cook  has  done  well  in  our  absence,  and  good  pork,  rice  and 
vegetables  await  us.  It  may  sound  rather  prosaic  to  speak  of  rice, 
pork,  and  a  dirty  old  inn,  but  we  would  not  care  to  change  places  with 
any  one  on  the  face  of  the  universe.  About  200  Gospels  have  found 
their  way  into  heathen  homes,  and  because  of  this,  there  is  joy  in  our 
hearts. 

We  were  to  have  been  up  and  away  at  break  of  day,  but  the  rain 
has  come  down  in  torrents  all  night,  making  the  road  impassable. 
We  must  therefore  content  ourselves  where  we  are  for  this  day  at  least, 
and  so  we  take  out  our  large  Gospel  posters  to  do  something  with  them. 
A  ladder  is  borrowed  and  we  at  length  set  forth  with  posters  and  paste. 
The  first  one  is  pasted  up  right  over  the  gate  leading  into  the  town, 
and  another  one  on  a  building  just  inside.  All  who  go  in  and  out  of  the 
gate  now,  if  they  can  read,  will  see  the  invitation  to  trust  in  the  one 
Name  given  among  men  whereby  they  can  be  saved.  These  posters 
being  rainproof  will  remain  up  some  time  unless  they  are  torn  down. 
A  large  crowd  has  by  this  time  turned  out  to  see  what  we  are  doing, 
and  so  another  opportunity  is  secured  for  making  known  our  Message. 

The  next  day  the  weather  is  not  altogether  inviting,  but  as  the 
coolies  and  chair-bearers  are  anxious  to  go  forward,  we  agree.  At 


ALL  MANNER  OF  SERVICE  339 

our  mid-day  resting-place  nearly  the  whole  population  turns  out  to 
see  us,  so  that  more  Gospel  portions  are  sold,  and  the  glad  message 
proclaimed.  Ere  we  leave  the  village,  it  commences  to  rain,  and  soon 
the  roads  get  muddy  and  slippery,  but  with  broad  Chinese  umbrellas 
over  our  heads  and  good  shoes  on  our  feet  we  feel  ready  for  anything. 
Forward  we  splash  and  stumble  through  the  mud  until  Kaotan  is 
reached,  and  here  we  stop  and  spend  the  Sunday. 

Monday  dawns  bright  and  clear,  and  the  coolies  are  refreshed  and 
cheerful,  so  we  set  off  in  high  spirits.  The  road  leads  along  the  bank 
of  a  mountain  stream  which  we  have  to  cross  and  recross  about  a  dozen 
times.  As  the  river  is  in  spate  and  the  plank  bridges  swept  away,  we 
have  to  take  to  the  water.  At  one  crossing  the  current  is  exceptionally 
strong,  and  one  of  the  coolies  slips  with  his  load  into  the  swirling  waters. 
Though  he  clings  tenaciously  to  the  bedding  the  box  of  books  is  carried 
away  down  stream.  The  coolie  reaches  the  bank  and  sits  down 
groaning,  while  one  of  the  chair-bearers  rushes  along  the  bank  in  pursuit 
of  the  box,  which  he  eventually  returns  with  in  great  glee.  Alas  !  the 
books  and  tracts  are  soaked  through  and  through,  but  we  console 
ourselves  with  the  thought  that  that  is  better  than  an  injured  bearer. 

Tong-shan-hsia,  the  out-station,  is  reached  at  last,  where  we  receive 
a  warm  welcome.  The  next  day  is  given  to  drying  the  books  and  tracts, 
and  to  making  preparations  for  the  remainder  of  the  journey.  We 
arrange  for  the  evangelist  to  remain  as  he  will  be  a  great  spiritual  help 
to  the  people,  while  we  press  on  through  practically  unevangelized 
country  towards  Hweichowfu.  After  a  warm  day's  tramp  we  enter 
the  village  of  Tang,  where  two  of  our  inn  companions  are  Buddhist 
priests.  We  sit  down  beside  the  younger  and  enquire  where  he 
comes  from. 

"  From  the  town  of  Chinyang,"  he  replies. 

"  I  once  visited  Kinhwashan,"  I  added,  seeking  to  arouse  his  interest 
by  a  reference  to  that  sacred  mount. 

"  You  there  !  "  he  ejaculates  in  a  surprised  tone.  "  And  what  were 
you  doing  there  ?  " 

"  Propagating  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,"  we  reply,  and  thus  a 
personal  talk  about  the  Gospel  is  introduced. 

The  night  which  follows  has  no  rest  for  us,  for  gambling  with  all 
its  attendant  uproar  lasts  till  dawn.  Early  in  the  morning,  we  leave 
the  wretched  inn  with  heavy  hearts,  as  we  think  of  the  sad  state  of  the 
inmates.  New  country  is  entered,  and  as  we  pass  hamlet  and  village 
we  become  objects  of  curiosity  giving  us  renewed  opportunities  of 
fulfilling  our  mission.  With  what  a  thrill  of  joy  we  see  the  Name  of 
Jesus  Christ  left  on  the  walls  of  the  people's  homes  ere  we  depart. 
Oh  !  that  the  Saviour  Himself  might  have  a  welcome  within. 

Still  onward  we  go  until  Hweichowfu  is  reached,  where  happy 
fellowship  is  had  with  fellow  missionaries,  and  then  we  set  forth  for 


340  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

the  return  journey,  reaching  our  point  of  departure  once  again  after 
an  absence  of  five  weeks,  during  which  time  we  have  walked  300  miles 
and  travelled  50  miles  more  by  native  boat. 

Thus  terminates  one  of  many  thousands  of  similar 
j  ourneys  which  have  been  made  all  over  China,  during  which 
the  Gospel  has  been  preached  to  millions  of  needy  people, 
and  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Scriptures  have  been  left  in 
the  homes  of  those  whom  Christ  came  to  save.  In  all  this 
work  the  itinerant  missionary  of  to-day  has  one  ambition 
before  him,  and  that  is,  that  he  may  tread  in  the  footsteps 
of  the  disciples  of  old,  who  "  went  forth,  preaching  every 
where,  the  Lord  working  with  them,  and  confirming  the 
word  by  signs  that  followed." 

To  the  physically  fit,  the  rough  and  hardy  open-air  life 
demanded  in  itinerant  evangelism  has  joys  and  compensa 
tions  denied  to  other  kinds  of  labour.  From  the  open  roads 
with  God's  heaven  above  we  must  now  proceed  to  very 
different  scenes  as  we  accompany  another  band  of  workers, 
both  Chinese  and  foreign,  for  these  are  seeking  to  carry  the 
saving  and  comforting  Message  of  Life  to  the  miserable  and 
otherwise  hopeless  inmates  of  a  Chinese  prison.  For  many 
good  reasons  we  must  be  prepared  to  pay  this  visit  without 
asking  questions  as  to  locality,  etc.,  for  this  privilege  is 
somewhat  uncommon,  and  it  is  important  that  those  who 
grant  it  should  not  be  laid  open  to  censure  from  above. 
The  privilege  of  taking  the  Gospel  to  the  inmates  of  this 
place  was  sought  and  obtained  by  a  young  Chinese  Christian, 
who,  though  in  business  employ,  was  filled  with  the  com 
passion  of  Christ  for  his  suffering  fellow-countrymen.  Every 
Sunday  the  little  group  of  four  or  five  workers  receives  a 
warm  welcome  from  those  in  charge  as  well  as  from  the 
convicts,  and  much  is  this  opportunity  valued  for  proclaim 
ing  to  these  unhappy  ones  the  unsearchable  riches  of  Christ. 
The  leader  of  the  little  band  of  workers  shall  be  our  guide  : 

The  prison  is  situated  on  the  outskirts  of  the  city,  and  on  one  side 
abuts  the  barracks,  where  soldiers  are  always  on  guard  in  case  of  need. 
The  buildings  are  of  the  usual  Chinese  type,  of  one  storey,  and  of  poor 
quality.  After  passing  through  the  entrance  gateway,  over  which 


ALL  MANNER  OF  SERVICE  341 

might  well  be  written,  "  Abandon  hope  all  ye  who  enter  here/'  we 
pass  through  the  small  court-room  in  which  prisoners  are  tried.  Be 
yond  this  is  a  yard  from  which  opens  out  a  long  narrow  passage  leading 
to  where  the  prisoners  are  confined.  Down  this  passage  is  the  office 
of  the  head  official,  and  also  some  small  rooms,  one  of  which  serves  as 
a  kind  of  hospital  for  sick  prisoners,  and  another  apparently  for  those 
awaiting  trial.  Then  turning  a  sharp  corner,  the  passage  opens  out 
into  a  small  courtyard.  On  one  side  is  a  heavy  wooden  barred  door, 
which  is  the  entrance  to  the  prisoners'  quarters.  Within  this,  immedi 
ately  on  the  left  hand  and  opposite  the  warder's  room,  is  a  door  made 
of  thick  timber  with  spaces  of  three  inches  between  them.  Peering 
through  these  narrow  openings  into  the  semi-darkness  beyond,  can  be 
seen  a  room  about  14  feet  square,  lighted  and  ventilated  only  by  a 
small  iron  grating. 

Upon  a  raised  floor  within  are  mats,  and  upon  these  there  are  some 
twenty  men  crouching,  squatting  or  lying.  The  space  available  cannot 
allow  all  the  men  to  lie  down  together  at  night.  Who  but  Chinese 
could  endure  the  fearful  monotony  of  lying  or  sitting  here  for  years 
together  ?  Some  were  under  sentence  for  fifteen  years,  and  none  for 
less  than  five  years,  and  some  of  them  are  heavily  manacled.  Here 
before  the  fast-closed  door  we  are  allowed  to  stand,  while  one  of  our 
number  tells,  as  best  he  can  through  the  bars  of  the  door,  the  message 
of  salvation.  Were  it  not  for  the  love  and  power  of  the  Living  Christ 
the  task  would  seem  hopeless,  but  He  who  came  to  bind  up  the  broken 
hearted,  to  proclaim  liberty  to  the  captives,  and  the  opening  of  the 
prison  to  them  that  are  bound,  is  able  for  what  to  us  appears  impossible. 

From  this  common  cell  we  pass  out  into  a  small  rectangular  court 
yard  about  20  feet  broad  by  40  feet  long.  On  the  right  hand  is  a  long 
narrow  building  running  the  whole  length  of  the  courtyard,  in  which 
are  confined  about  sixty  convicts,  some  being  heavily  manacled.  At 
the  end  of  the  same  courtyard  is  still  another  building  not  more  than 
40  feet  by  15  feet  in  which  there  are  at  least  seventy  men.  Both  these 
rooms  are  cleaner,  lighter  and  better  ventilated  than  the  first  one, 
and  into  these  two  rooms  we  are  allowed  to  enter  and  speak  freely 
with  the  prisoners.  Nowhere  could  there  be  found  more  attentive 
audiences.  The  fact  of  sin  and  its  awful  results,  even  in  this  life,  are 
obvious.  God's  great  love  to  them  individually,  His  readiness  to  save, 
the  infinite  yearning  of  His  heart  over  the  unrepentant  and  disobedient, 
the  open  door  to  whosoever  will,  together  with  some  personal  testimony, 
are  words  of  hope  to  these  poor  men. 

Many  confess  that  they  have  accepted  Christ,  and  one  of  the  warders 
says  that  they  always  say  a  prayer  before  taking  their  food.  How 
much  all  this  really  means  only  the  Searcher  of  all  hearts  knows,  but 
the  coming  Day  will  declare  the  results  of  these  regular  visits  to  one 
of  the  many,  and  by  no  means  the  worst,  of  China's  prisons. 


342  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

As  a  contrast  to  this  humble  and  heartbreaking  work 
among  the  unfortunate  inmates  of  one  of  China's  prisons,  we 
pass  to  an  entirely  different  scene.  It  is  Wednesday  after 
noon,  January  15, 1913,  and  we  find  ourselves,  after  a  railway 
journey  on  one  of  China's  trunk  lines,  in  company  with 
some  eighty  medical  missionary  delegates,  who  have 
assembled  for  the  Triennial  Meetings  of  the  China  Medical 
Missionary  Association,  standing  in  the  large  Reception 
Hall  of  President  Yuan  Shih-kai's  place  of  residence.  We 
have  all  been  met  and  welcomed  in  the  most  kindly  and 
cordial  way  by  the  President's  Secretary,  and  ere  long  the 
President  himself  appears.  An  Address,  previously  pre 
pared  by  the  Committee  of  the  Medical  Missionary  Associa 
tion,  is  read  to  the  President,  and  then  he  without  use  of 
notes,  much  to  the  surprise  and  pleasure  of  all,  replies  in 
his  pure  Honanese  dialect  in  a  simple  and  unaffected  manner. 

After  expressing  his  gratitude  for  "  the  charitable 
services  "  rendered  by  the  medical  missionaries  to  his  people, 
"  especially  in  the  interior  of  the  country  "  ;  to  the  work 
during  "  the  disastrous  plague  of  two  years  ago  in  Man 
churia  "  ;  to  the  Red  Cross  work  carried  out  during  the 
Revolution  when  "  many  of  you,  facing  difficulties  and 
running  risks,  were  out  in  the  field  to  relieve  the  large  number 
of  sufferers  "  ;  he  refers  to  the  Church  and  expresses  his 
appreciation  of  Christian  Missions.  "  I  feel  very  deeply 
indebted  to  you,  and  am  very  glad  that  in  receiving  you 
to-day  I  am  able  to  express  my  personal  thanks." 

At  the  close  of  this  address,  all  present  had  the  honour 
of  filing  past  the  illustrious  speaker,  each  one  receiving  a 
shake  of  the  hand  and  having  an  opportunity  of  expressing 
his  personal  appreciation  of  his  kindness.  Following  this 
reception,  the  company  is  entertained  with  refreshment, 
and  all  come  away  very  favourably  impressed  with  the 
President's  greatness,  and  happy  in  the  thought  that  he 
looks  so  favourably  upon  the  work  of  Medical  Missions. 
Times  have  changed  indeed  in  this  ancient  capital  of  an 
ancient  people,  and  without  putting  our  trust  in  princes  or 
presidents,  we  thank  Almighty  God  for  the  open  door  and 
unprecedented  opportunities  of  to-day. 


ALL  MANNER  OF  SERVICE  343 

From  Peking  we  take  train  and  travel  along  a  fascinating 
mountain  railway  into  the  heart  of  Shansi,  and  ultimately 
reach  the  city  of  Hwochow,  open  to  the  Gospel  through  Mrs. 
Hsi's  self-denying  sale  of  her  own  jewellery.  This  station, 
opened  by  a  woman,  has  been  worked  by  women.  Two  of 
those  now  passed  to  their  reward,  the  Misses  Stevens  and 
Clarke,  were  among  the  martyrs  of  1900,  and  some  of  the 
school  buildings  now  standing  have  been  erected  in  their 
memory.  Adjoining  the  large  and  flourishing  school  is 
another  courtyard,  where  we  shall  find  buildings  specially 
erected  for  a  Women's  Bible  School ;  and  if  we  examine  the 
stone  inserted  in  the  wall,  we  shall  read  that  these  buildings 
were  erected  by  the  members  of  Dr.  Campbell  Morgan's 
Church,  thus  linking  up  the  well-known  Bible  School  of 
Westminster  with  this  missionary  effort  for  women  so  far 
away. 

Miss  Jessie  Gregg,  who  has  felt  the  call  to  hold  special 
evangelistic  missions  for  women,  has  come  to  Hwochow,  now 
in  charge  of  the  Misses  E.  and  F.  L.  French  and  Miss  A.  M. 
Cable,  to  hold  a  five  days'  Mission.  The  very  idea  of  such 
a  Mission  is  a  wonderful  thing.  Only  forty  years  ago  the 
Chinese  Government  had  definitely  attempted  to  veto 
women's  work,  and  now  a  special  Mission  for  them  is  pro 
posed.  There  is  some  natural  anxiety  as  to  the  response 
which  will  be  met  with,  for  this  is  the  first  effort  of  this 
nature  made  in  this  city.  As  the  time  draws  near  the 
workers  one  evening  are  discussing  the  prospects,  when,  just 
as  they  are  about  to  retire  for  the  night,  the  rumble  of  heavy 
springless  carts  is  heard  at  the  front  door.  The  gate  is 
opened  with  alacrity,  and  there  drawn  up  in  the  dark,  with 
lanterns  hanging  from  the  shafts,  are  no  fewer  than  thirteen 
carts  with  their  crowded  passengers.  This  was  indeed  a 
good  augury  for  what  was  to  follow  !  Next  day  trains  of 
donkeys  and  other  beasts  of  burden  reach  the  Mission 
premises,  there  being  sometimes  as  many  as  twenty  animals 
in  one  cavalcade.  Soon  the  whole  compound  is  one  scene 
of  excited  activity.  The  courtyards  became  veritable 
camps,  for  some  four  to  five  hundred  women  have  assembled, 
many  from  long  distances,  and  the  orderly  conduct  of  such 


344  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

an  occasion,  from  the  kitchen  arrangements  to  the  meetings 
themselves,  calls  for  careful  organization. 

The  sight  is  one  to  make  the  workers'  hearts  leap  for  joy. 
Four  to  five  hundred  women  met  together  to  hear  the 
Gospel !  This  is  a  sight  which  many  missionary  pioneers 
have  longed  to  see,  but  saw  not  ;  and  many  things  are 
heard  which  our  fathers  desired  to  hear,  but  heard  not. 
Blessed,  indeed,  are  our  eyes  to-day,  for  they  see  these 
things,  and  our  ears,  for  they  hear  them. 

Meeting  follows  meeting,  until  one  afternoon  the  Spirit 
of  God  falls  upon  the  gathered  company.  The  experience 
must  be  related  in  Miss  Gregg's  own  words  : 

I  was  speaking  that  afternoon  on  the  verse  in  Matthew,  "  Whose 
fan  is  in  His  hand,  and  He  will  throughly  purge  His  floor,  and  gather 
His  wheat  into  the  garner,  but  He  will  burn  up  the  chaff  with  un 
quenchable  fire  "  ;  and  I  made  the  women  repeat  the  verse  over  and 
over  again.  It  was  an  eastern  picture,  and  every  one  could  under 
stand  it.  And,  as  we  repeated  the  verse,  the  Word  of  God  began  to 
get  hold  of  the  people.  One  felt  the  presence  of  God  hovering  round 
us.  We  cried  unto  God,  and  I  was  led  to  say  just  these  few  words. 
I  said  :  "  You  know  in  this  meeting  this  afternoon  there  are  only  two 
kinds  of  people.  If  you  are  not  chaff  you  are  wheat,  and  if  you  are 
not  wheat  you  are  chaff."  A  very  simple  thing  to  say,  but  God  used 
that  word  ;  and  the  Holy  Spirit  fell  upon  the  meeting.  A  mighty 
wave  of  conviction  swept  over  that  meeting,  and  over  ninety  women 
decided  for  Christ  that  afternoon.  It  is  gloriously  possible  for  those 
women,  the  very  first  time  they  hear  the  Gospel,  to  believe  and  be 
saved.  I  shall  never  forget  the  testimony  meeting.  We  always  wound 
up  with  a  testimony  meeting.  Over  two  hundred  and  twenty-five  of 
these  women  testified  to  blessing  received,  more  than  half  of  whom 
had  decided  for  Christ  during  those  days.  People  will  say,  "  Will 
they  stand  ?  "  Yes,  if  they  are  born  of  God  they  will  stand.  Do 
not  let  us  hinder  God  by  our  unbelief.  He  is  able  to  save,  and  He  is 
doing  it. 

As  we  bring  this  chapter  to  a  close,  we  cannot  conclude 
without  one  glance  at  a  Chinese  convert  himself  at  work. 
The  end  of  the  missionary's  task  is  to  see  the  Chinese  them 
selves  in  Christ's  service.  We  must  in  this  case  go  back  to 
Hangchow,  the  city  which  became  the  first  Chinese  home  of 
the  Lammermuir  party,  and  here  we  shall  find  the  work  of 
the  C.I.M.  in  charge  of  Pastor  Ren,  a  man  whose  whole  life 


ALL  MANNER  OF  SERVICE  345 

and  substance  have  been  devoted  to  the  Master's  service, 
while  the  salaries  of  all  his  Chinese  helpers  are  paid  out  of 
his  own  pocket.  From  one  of  his  annual  reports  we  select 
a  few  extracts.  In  accordance  with  Chinese  literary  taste, 
he  divides  his  report  into  four  heads — Spring,  Summer, 
Autumn,  and  Winter.  The  following  paragraphs  are  taken 
from  the  Spring  portion  : 

In  the  first  moon  of  the  spring  we  called  together  all  who  take  an 
active  part  in  preaching  the  Gospel,  for  the  purpose  of  setting  apart 
the  special  preachers  two  by  two  to  go  forth  on  itinerating  journeys. 
But,  alas,  man  may  propose,  but  God  alone  disposes,  and  right  in  the 
midst  of  our  bright  anticipations  of  a  good  harvest,  and  just  as  we  were 
fully  prepared  to  carry  out  this  new  feature  of  work  in  our  Churches, 
the  Lord  in  His  mysterious  Providence  sent  upon  us  a  terrible  epidemic 
of  scarlet  fever.  But  thanks  be  unto  God  that  notwithstanding  that 
my  own  family  and  even  myself  personally  were  all  involved,  and  one 
of  our  number  taken  to  Heaven  by  this  visitation,  leaving  a  clear 
testimony  behind  that  she  was  gone  to  be  with  the  Lord,  yet  not  one 
of  the  preachers  selected  for  this  itinerating  journey  was  laid  aside  by 
this  scourge.  We  were  comforted  by  God's  goodness  and  mercy  to 
us  in  the  clear  testimony  of  the  dear  adopted  child  taken  from  us, 
and  in  the  fact  that  our  appointed  brethren  were  not  hindered  in  their 
mission  to  the  Churches  and  congregations  under  our  care. 

I  myself  was  on  account  of  this  fever  hindered,  but  now  I  perceive 
that  the  Lord  had  something  else  and  of  as  great  importance  for  me  to 
do  at  home.  This  was  to  receive  the  large  number  of  candidates  and 
inquirers  who  came  in  groups  seeking  instruction  at  my  hands.  Among 
these  many  visitors  were  literary  men,  men  of  wealth  and  influence, 
besides  men  of  business  and  high  military  rank.  Alas,  our  Church 
members  became  quite  elated  at  the  prospect  of  such  men  entering 
our  Church.  In  vain  I  endeavoured  to  check  their  excitement,  and  to 
free  their  minds  from  illusory  visions.  I  was  thankful  to  God  I  was 
hindered  from  joining  the  work  of  itineration.  All  the  months  from 
the  first  moon  right  on  to  the  sixth  moon,  I  was  occupied  many  hours 
of  each  working  day  in  hearing  and  answering  questions  from  these 
interested  groups  of  visitors  and 'inquirers,  and  God  eventually  sifted 
these  men.  There  were  good  and  bad  fish  in  the  drag-net.  It  took 
a  lot  of  strength  out  of  me  to  reason  out  before  our  Church  members 
and  others  that  the  religion  of  Jesus  does  not  thrive  by  worldly  pomp 
and  power,  and  that  the  Church  of  God  is  a  spiritual  structure.  I 
reminded  them  of  our  forefathers  in  the  field  who  were  all  fishermen 
of  Galilee,  all  poor  men,  and  the  Church  must  not  look  to  rich  men  of 
influence  for  its  life  and  support.  Gradually  as  the  days  passed  by 


346  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

our  brethren  began  to  see  with  me,  and  those  few  who  were  truly 
seeking  in  Him  the  pardon  of  their  sins  remained  with  us.  Praise 
God  !  It  is  all  of  His  mercy  we  are  not  deceived  by  outward  appear 
ances.  Oh,  pray  the  Lord  of  the  harvest  to  keep  us  from  the  too  wide 
open  arms  at  these  times.  God  alone  can  keep  us.  Pray  for  us. 

These  few  glimpses  of  missionary  and  Chinese  pastor  in 
the  midst  of  their  labours  must  suffice  to  suggest  what  could 
be  told  of  scores  of  other  stations  and  of  many  other  forms 
of  service.  "  There  are  diversities  of  gifts  but  the  same 
Spirit.  And  there  are  diversities  of  ministries  and  the  same 
Lord.  And  there  are  diversities  of  workings,  but  the  same 
God  who  worketh  all  things  in  all." 


THE   YEAR   OF   JUBILEE 

FIFTY-FIVE  years  have  passed  since  Mr.  Taylor  wrote  home 
from  China,  asking  his  father  if  he  knew  of  any  earnest 
devoted  young  men  desirous  of  serving  God  in  that  land. 
Five  years  later,  or  fifty  years  ago,  after  several  workers  had 
gone  forth,  the  Mission  was  definitely  inaugurated  under  its 
present  name.  Little  could  those  early  pioneers,  or  their 
devoted  leader,  have  imagined  to  what  dimensions  their 
small  band  would  grow.  Unsupported  by  the  great  of  this 
world,  confronted  by  almost  incredible  difficulties,  beset 
behind  and  before  by  innumerable  trials,  perplexed  by 
apparently  insoluble  problems,  disciplined  incessantly  in 
faith  and  patience,  chastened  by  many  personal  sorrows, 
persecutions,  and  bereavements,  the  Mission  has  not  only 
continued  to  this  day,  but  has  yearly  enlarged  its  borders, 
and  what  is  best  of  all,  has  been  used  to  evangelize,  in  part 
at  least,  vast  unevangelized  regions. 

The  secret  of  all  this  is  found  in  nothing  less  than  in  God 
Himself.  The  work  was  begotten  of  God,  has  been  sustained 
by  God,  and  blessed  by  God.  Out  of  weakness  His  servants 
have  been  made  strong  ;  the  grain  of  mustard  seed,  small  in 
itself,  has  grown  into  a  great  tree  because  living  faith  in  God, 
a  faith  given  by  God  Himself,  has  been  in  it.  All  that  has 
been  recorded  in  these  pages  has  been  written  to  show  forth 
the  praises  of  Him  who  hath  called  us  out  of  darkness  into 
His  marvellous  light,  and  has  given  us  this  ministry  of 
reconciliation.  Yet  what  has  been  written  is  not  one  tithe 
of  what  could  be  told.  When  we  seek  to  tell  what  God  hath 

347 


348  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

wrought,  we  find  it  "  cannot  be  set  in  order  "  ;  when  we 
desire  to  declare  and  speak  of  all  His  wondrous  works,  "  they 
are  more  than  can  be  numbered." 

Since  the  outbreak  of  the  recent  Revolution  the  writer 
spent  eleven  months  in  China,  travelling  from  station  to 
station.  With  but  few  and  brief  breaks,  the  whole  time, 
summer  and  winter,  was  spent  in  passing  from  one  Mission 
centre  to  another,  yet  when  that  somewhat  arduous  though 
intensely  interesting  tour  was  finished,  only  a  very  small 
portion  of  the  work  of  this  one  Mission  had  been  seen. 
Judging  by  the  experiences  of  that  year,  it  is  not  too  much 
to  say  that  five  years  would  at  least  be  needed  to  personally 
visit  all  the  central  stations  of  the  C.I.M.  alone  ;  and  if  it 
were  desired  to  see  all  the  out-stations  as  well,  another  ten 
if  not  twenty  years  would  need  to  be  added.  This  statement 
will  perhaps  help  the  reader  to  realize  over  what  an  extensive 
area  the  stations  of  the  Mission  are  located.  The  area  of  the 
provinces  in  which  the  Mission  works  is  more  than  one  and 
three-quarter  million  square  miles. 

When  one  tries  in  retrospect  to  realize  the  labour  involved 
in  the  opening  of  these  stations  in  this  land  of  far  distances 
and  vast  multitudes,  and  the  mercies  which  have  encom 
passed  the  work  and  workers  to  make  this  labour  possible, 
the  mind  becomes  "  lost  in  wonder,  love,  and  praise." 
Millions  of  miles  have  been  travelled  by  land  and  sea. 
Shipwrecks  there  have  been,  and  many  moments  of  great 
peril,  yet  we  believe  we  are  correct  in  saying  that  only  three 
lives  have  been  lost  by  the  dangers  of  the  road,  one  in  the 
Chefoo  Harbour,  one  in  flooded  country  in  Kiangsi,  and  the 
third  in  a  rapid  on  a  Kweichow  mountain  river. 

And  what  shall  we  say  about  the  financial  mercies  of 
these  fifty  years  !  Funds  have  been  needed  for  thousands 
of  passages  to  and  from  China,  and  for  hard  and  incessant 
travelling  in  China  itself ;  for  the  building  of  schools, 
hospitals,  chapels,  dwelling-places  ;  for  the  support  of  more 
than  fifteen  hundred  Chinese  helpers,  and  more  than  a 
thousand  missionaries.  Yet  the  money  has  all  come  in 
answer  to  prayer ;  and  though  faith  has  been  tested,  and 
many  painful  economies  have  had  to  be  practised,  every 


THE  YEAR  OF  JUBILEE  349 

need  has  been  supplied  for  fifty  years,  and  that  without 
authorized  collections  or  personal  appeals  for  funds.  All 
we  can  say  is,  that  the  God  who  fed  Elijah  and  gave 
manna  to  Israel  in  the  wilderness  is  the  God  of  His  people 
to-day. 

But  further,  when  we  remember  the  conservatism  of 
China,  her  anti-foreign  spirit,  her  determination  to  keep  her 
provinces,  her  towns  and  cities  closed  against  the  unwelcome 
intruder  ;  when  we  recall  the  pride  of  her  scholars,  her 
belief  in  the  self-sufficiency  of  her  own  religions,  her  contempt 
of  foreign  learning  and  of  the  "  Jesus  Religion  " — how  shall 
we  explain  her  opened  cities  to-day,  and  what  is  more,  her 
opened  mind,  and  the  thousands  of  humble  followers  of  the 
despised  Nazarene  ?  Wars  have,  we  know,  been  God's 
instrument  in  shaking  her  from  her  lethargy  and  breaking 
down  her  foolish  isolation.  But  though  wars  may  have 
compelled  her  to  accept  our  commerce,  and  yield  for  many 
years  to  the  iniquitous  opium  traffic,  no  gun  or  sword  yet 
forged  can  compel  any  man  to  welcome  Jesus  Christ  as 
Lord  and  Master  of  his  life,  and  this  is  what  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  Chinese  have  done. 

Here  again  we  are  face  to  face  with  a  marvel,  and  that 
the  greatest  marvel  of  all.  There  are  few  things  money 
cannot  buy,  there  are  few  things  power  cannot  seize  ;  but 
only  love  can  really  win  a  man,  and  only  the  dying  love  of 
Christ  can  turn  a  sinner  from  the  error  of  his  way,  and  make 
him  a  child  of  God.  The  miracle  of  that  love  has  been  at 
work  in  China,  and  it  has  been  the  glad  lot  of  the  C.I.M.  to 
welcome  more  than  fifty  thousand  sinners,  redeemed  by 
Grace,  into  the  Fold  of  Christ's  Church.  And  these  figures 
are  by  no  means  the  measure  of  what  has  been  accom 
plished.  Many  thousands  who  have  never  been  baptized, 
who  have  been  prevented  by  sickness  or  distance,  or,  in  the 
case  of  women  and  juniors,  by  the  opposition  of  the  senior 
members  of  their  clan,  from  thus  publicly  acknowledging 
their  Lord,  have  yet  learned  and  confessed  in  more  private 
fashion  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Lamb  of  God  who  taketh 
away  the  sin  of  the  world.  If  it  be  true  that  "  he  who 
converteth  a  sinner  from  the  error  of  his  way  shall  save  a 


350  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

soul  from  death,  and  shall  cover  a  multitude  of  sins,"  then, 
what  a  blessed  ministry  has  been  the  portion  of  those  who 
have  gone  down  to  this  spiritual  battle,  as  well  as  of  those 
who  by  their  gifts  and  prayers  are  enrolled  as  amongst  those 
who  "  tarry  by  the  stuff." 

But  far  beyond  the  fruit  yet  gathered  has  been  the 
influence  of  these  years  of  toil.  In  many  places  the  hard 
soil  has  been  broken  up  and  the  seed  of  life  sown.  Pre 
judices  have  been  overcome,  antagonisms  have  yielded, 
apathy  has  disappeared,  and  interest  in  that  which  is  most 
vital  has  been  awakened.  With  every  year  that  passes 
the  results  of  past  efforts  are  being  seen.  The  s*eed  cast 
upon  the  waters  is  being  found  after  many  days  as  an  ever- 
increasing  harvest.  Up  to  the  time  of  the  Boxer  crisis 
the  number  of  persons  baptized  from  the  commencement 
had  not  reached  a  total  of  15,000  persons,  and  the  highest 
number  for  the  best  year  had  been  under  1400.  In  the 
fourteen  years  which  have  elapsed  since  that  date  35,000 
converts  have  been  baptized,  and  of  that  number  more  than 
9500  were  received  during  the  last  two  years.  In  the  early 
days  there  was  naturally  little  reaping  but  much  of  difficult 
and  often  discouraging  seed-sowing.  To-day,  though  much 
seed-sowing  is  still  necessary,  there  is  the  joy  of  harvest. 

In  what  has  been  written  emphasis  has  naturally  been 
laid  upon  the  work  accomplished,  but  this  volume  must  not 
close  without  some  reference  to  the  work  which  still  remains 
to  be  done.  So  great  and  vast  are  the  needs  of  China  that 
they  altogether  defy  description.  Even  now  more  than  half 
of  China's  two  thousand  walled  cities  are  without  a  resident 
missionary,  and  there  are,  in  addition,  some  seven  thousand 
smaller  towns,  the  majority  of  which  have  no  resident 
witness  for  Christ.  And  as  to  the  villages  of  China,  who 
knows  their  number  !  To  give  one  illustration  :  if  we  were 
to  visit  one  of  the  85  counties  into  which  the  province  of 
Shensi  is  divided,  we  should  find  900  walled  villages.  One 
missionary  and  his  wife  are  the  only  Protestant  missionaries 
in  this  county,  and  it  would  take  them  three  years  to  visit 
all  these  villages  if  one  were  visited  every  day,  Sundays 
excepted.  And  yet  this  county  is  only  one  of  85  in  that 


THE  YEAR  OF  JUBILEE  351 

province,  and  that  province  is  only  one  of  19,  if  the  three 
provinces  of  Manchuria  be  excluded. 

Great  things  have  been  accomplished  in  the  years  now 
past,  but  the  task  of  reaching  China's  four  hundred  millions 
is,  alas,  far  from  being  completed.  Vast  areas  have  only 
had  an  occasional  visit  from  a  messenger  of  the  Cross,  and 
countless  millions  have  not  yet  received  an  intelligent  under 
standing  of  the  love  of  God  in  Christ  Jesus.  If  all  the 
Scriptures  circulated  in  China  from  the  commencement  were 
still  in  the  people's  hands,  it  would  mean  that  only  one  in 
every  seven  or  eight  persons  had  so  much  as  a  Gospel  Portion. 
The  circulation  of  the  Scriptures  in  China  to-day  is  about 
five  million  copies  per  annum,  and  yet  at  this  encouraging 
rate  eighty  years  would  be  needed  for  every  man,  woman, 
and  child  to  secure  a  copy,  while  no  less  a  sum  than  three 
million  pounds  sterling  would  be  required  to  present  one 
Gospel  to  every  individual  in  China.  Great  as  has  been 
God's  blessing  on  past  labours,  the  blessings  vouchsafed 
should  but  be  an  inspiration  for  greater  things  in  the  days 
to  come. 

But  as  we  turn  from  a  consideration  of  the  work  to  think 
of  the  workers,  different  reflections  fill  heart  and  mind,  for 
those  who  have  borne  the  burden  and  heat  of  the  early  days 
have  for  the  most  part  finished  their  course  with  joy,  and 
the  responsibilities  of  continuing  the  work  have  fallen  upon 
other  shoulders.  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor,  the  honoured  founder 
of  the  Mission,  after  a  long  and  arduous  life,  has  been  called 
to  his  reward,  and  his  mantle  now  rests  upon  his  successor, 
Mr.  D.  E.  Hoste.  Mr.  Theodore  Howard,  Chairman  of  the 
Mission's  original  Council  and  Home  Director  in  Great 
Britain  since  1879,  has  but  recently  entered  into  his  rest,  to 
be  succeeded  by  the  Rev.  J.  Stuart  Holden  in  this  important 
office.  Only  three  years  ago,  Mr.  W.  D.  Rudland,  the  last 
surviving  member  of  the  historic  Lammermuir  party,  was 
gathered  Home  to  see  the  King.  And  still  more  recently, 
Mr.  J.  J.  Meadows,  the  senior  member  of  the  Mission,  who 
had  been  spared  to  give  more  than  fifty-two  years  of  service 
to  China,  gladly  responded  to  the  call  to  see  his  Master  face 
to  face. 


352  THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

In  the  Rev.  J.  W.  and  Mrs.  Stevenson  there  remains  to 
the  Mission  the  last  link  with  the  Lammermuir  days  ;  while 
at  home  Mr.  William  Sharp  is  the  only  member  who  has 
served  continuously  on  the  London  Council  since  the  early 
seventies.  One  by  one  the  links  between  the  present  and 
the  early  days  have  become  painfully  fewer.  Most  of  those 
who  laid  the  foundations  have  finished  their  task,  and  the 
duty  of  building  thereon  is  now  left  to  the  younger  generation. 
To  be  the  inheritors  of  high  ideals  and  lofty  traditions  is  a 
great  honour,  but  a  solemn  responsibility.  On  the  human 
side,  that  the  Mission  has  become  what  it  is  is  in  large  measure 
due  to  the  burning  zeal,  the  strenuous  and  practical  self- 
denying  toil,  and  the  simple  faith  which  characterized  those 
who  laid  the  foundations.  The  solemn  charge,  therefore, 
which  comes  to  all  who  carry  on  this  work,  whether  as 
labourers  at  the  front,  or  as  helpers  by  prayers  and  gifts  at 
home,  is  to  "  guard  that  which  is  committed  unto  thee."  l 

The  problems  of  the  present  differ  from  those  our  fathers 
faced,  but  they  call  for  the  same  spirit  of  faith  and  consecra 
tion.  Each  age  has  its  own  peculiar  tests  of  courage  and 
fortitude.  When  Mr.  Taylor  went  to  China,  the  Taiping 
Rebellion,  in  which  some  twenty  million  Chinese  lost  their 
lives,  appeared  as  though  it  would  make  work  impossible. 
As  the  Mission  now  celebrates  its  Jubilee,  the  war  in  Europe 
appears  to  threaten  the  very  existence  of  Foreign  Missions, 
and  in  a  peculiarly  painful  way  affects  the  C.I.M.  In  the 
ranks  of  the  Mission  are  representatives  of  most  of  the 
leading  nations  of  Europe,  so  that  nationally  the  Mission  is 
divided,  yet  supernationally,  since  we  are  all  one  in  Christ 
Jesus,  the  Mission  is  gloriously  united. 

Behind  all  the  dread  events  of  these  dark  days  we 
recognize  the  spiritual  powers  of  Good  and  Evil  striving  for 
the  mastery,  and  it  is  the  duty  of  all  who  are  named  by  the 
Name  of  Christ  to  seek  by  prayer  and  the  manifestation  of 
the  spirit  of  their  Master,  to  defeat  the  powers  of  darkness, 
which  are  seeking  to  hinder  the  spread  of  the  Gospel  and 
the  coming  of  His  Kingdom.  As  in  the  days  of  Noah,  we 
see  the  earth  "  filled  with  violence."  But  the  promise  of 

1  Revised  margin,  "  Greek — Guard  the  deposit." 


THE  YEAR  OF  JUBILEE  353 

God  is  that  "  the  earth  shall  be  filled  with  the  knowledge  of 
the  glory  of  the  Lord,  as  the  waters  cover  the  sea." 

THUS  SAITH  THE  LORD,  IF  YE  CAN  BREAK  MY  COVENANT  OF  THE 
DAY  AND  MY  COVENANT  OF  THE  NIGHT,  SO  THAT  THERE  SHALL  NOT  BE 
DAY  AND  NIGHT  IN  THEIR  SEASON  ;  THEN  MAY  ALSO  MY  COVENANT 
BE  BROKEN. 

Then  let  the  light  of  each  day  and  the  darkness  of  each 
night  remind  us  of  that  Covenant — until  God's  great  Day 
shall  dawn  and  the  shadows  flee  away. 

BLESSED  BE  THE  LORD  GOD,  THE  GOD  OF  ISRAEL, 

WHO  ONLY  DOETH  WONDROUS  THINGS  ! 

AND  BLESSED  BE  His  GLORIOUS  NAME  FOR  EVER  ; 

AND  LET  THE  WHOLE  EARTH  BE  FILLED  WITH  HlS  GLORY. 

AMEN,  AND  AMEN. 


2  A 


APPENDICES 

I.  THE  ASSOCIATE  MISSIONS. 
II.   CHRONOLOGICAL  SUMMARY. 
III.   STATISTICS. 

INDEX 


355 


We  daily  look  to  God  to  bless  our  efforts  to  the  salvation  of  souls  :  we 
feel  that  His  Spirit  alone  can  change  the  heart  :  we  desire  to  give  to  Him 
all  the  glory  of  any  good  we  may  be  used  in  effecting.  But  at  the  same 
time  we  believe  that  God  employs  human  instrumentalities  and  human 
sympathies  in  carrying  on  His  work  ;  and  that  that  work  not  only  may 
be,  but  often  is,  advanced  or  retarded  by  the  judicious  or  injudicious  use 
of  the  means  which  He  has  placed  at  our  disposal.  No  mightier  power 
has  been  entrusted  to  us  than  that  true  sympathy  which  identifies  itself 
with  those  whom  it  seeks  to  benefit ;  it  carries  the  heart  captive.  And  to 
get  close  access  to  the  hearts  of  the  people  is  our  great  aim  :  to  win  their 
confidence  and  love  is  our  daily  object. 

J.  HUDSON  TAYLOR. 


The  Lord's  questions  to  Peter  (Lovest  thou  Me  ?)  about  love  to  Himself 
are  each  at  once  followed  by  a  command  to  help  the  souls  of  others.  From 
this,  two  reflections  naturally  arise.  .  .  . 

First,  the  great  qualification  for  work  for  Christ  in  the  hearts  of  others 
is  love  to  Christ  in  the  worker's  heart,  real,  personal  love  in  the  conscious 
individual  experience. 

Then,  secondly,  where  that  love  is  present,  kindled  by  His  free  and 
wonderful  love  to  us,  there  we  may  expect  as  the  sure  sequel  that  some 
work  for  Him  in  the  hearts  of  others  will  be  put  by  Him  into  our  hands. 

BISHOP  HANDLEY  MOULE. 


APPENDIX  I 


THE  ASSOCIATE  MISSIONS 

THE  growth  of  the  C.I.M.  as  an  Interdenominational  Mission 
into  an  International  organization  has  been  briefly  related  in 
the  text.  Such  a  development  was  unsought  and  unexpected 
and  could  not  have  been  engineered.  It  can  only  be  explained 
by  the  spiritual  and  supernational  nature  of  the  Christian  Church. 
It  affords  a  striking  testimony,  especially  in  these  days  of  war, 
to  the  strength  of  that  tie  which  unites  all  true  believers.  Such 
direct  association  with  the  members  of  other  nations  in  the  work 
of  the  Gospel  is  no  small  privilege.  Its  educational  value  alone, 
in  widening  the  sympathies  and  in  toning  down  national  self- 
complacency  and  prejudice,  is  inestimable.  For  twenty-five 
years,  in  an  ever-enlarging  sphere,  there  has  been  a  mutually 
happy  and  helpful  fellowship,  and  though  war  has  unhappily 
divided  the  nations  of  Europe,  yet  with  chastened  hearts  the 
bond  of  love  in  Christ  still  holds  and  will,  we  trust,  survive  all  the 
tests  of  time,  for  "  love  endureth  all  things." 

To-day  there  are  282  missionaries  connected  with  eleven 
Associate  Missions  within  the  C.I.M.  circle.  The  Home  depart 
ment  of  each  is  practically  autonomous,  and  the  financial 
arrangements  are  independent.  All,  however,  have  accepted 
the  Mission's  Principles  and  Practice  and  co-operate  as  necessary 
with  the  Home  and  China  headquarters  of  the  Mission  generally. 
To  supply  fuller  information  concerning  these  Associate  Missions 
than  could  be  given  in  the  body  of  the  book  the  following 
outlines  are  appended. 


THE  SWEDISH  MISSION  IN  CHINA 

In  the  year   1882   Mr.  Josef  Holmgren,  a   young  Christian 
gentleman  from  the  south  of  Sweden,  was  present  at  one  of  the 

357 


358  APPENDIX  I 

C.I.M.  Prayer  Meetings  in  Pyrland  Road.  So  much  impressed 
was  he  by  the  spirit  of  faith  and  prayer,  and  by  a  subsequent 
conversation  with  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor,  that  on  his  return  home 
he  sought  to  awaken  interest  in  the  evangelization  of  China. 
At  the  same  time  Mr.  Erik  Folke,  a  young  student  in  Upsala, 
became  conscious  of  God's  call  for  service  in  China.  His  first 
interest  had  been  aroused  during  the  visit  of  a  Norwegian 
missionary,  Mr.  L.  O.  Skrefsrud,  and  his  desire  to  learn  more 
led  him  to  visit  London.  His  intercourse  with  Missions  and 
missionaries  in  London,  and  especially  with  the  C.I.M.,  deepened 
his  desire,  but  no  channel  to  China  seemed  open.  He  had 
declined  several  proposals  to  enter  other  foreign  fields,  and  at 
that  time  Sweden  had  no  Missions  in  China.  When  present  at 
a  Bible  Reading  in  Mrs.  Boardman's  house  in  Drayton  Park,  a 
letter  was  read  promising  the  outfit  and  travelling  expenses  of 
a  young  man,  and  Mrs.  Baxter  turned  to  him  with  the  words, 
"  Now  your  way  to  China  is  open." 

Shortly  after  Mr.  Folke  Js  arrival  in  China  in  March  1887, 
when  the  C.I.M.  welcomed  him  to  the  Home  in  Shanghai  and  to 
the  Training  Home  in  Anking,  three  friends  at  home  united, 
with  Mr.  Josef  Holmgren  as  leader,  to  form  a  Committee  with 
the  object  of  supporting  Mr.  Folke  in  the  field  and  providing 
him  with  colleagues.  Three  co-workers  were  sent  out  during 
the  next  two  years.  The  missionary  interest  in  Sweden  received 
a  new  impulse  through  the  visit  of  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor  accom 
panied  by  Dr.  Howard  Taylor,  at  the  invitation  of  this  Committee, 
in  November  1889.  Guided  by  Mr.  Taylor's  counsel  they  were 
led  to  adopt  the  Principles  and  Practice  of  the  C.I.M.  as  the 
basis  of  this  new  Mission.  In  China  Mr.  Folke  had  also  entered 
into  an  agreement  with  Mr.  J.  W.  Stevenson  as  to  a  plan  of 
co-operation.  The  prefecture  of  Puchow  was  decided  upon  as 
the  field  for  this  Swedish  Mission,  and  Mr.  Folke  was  enabled  to 
gain  a  foothold  in  the  city  of  Yunchengchen,  since  which  time  that 
city  has  been  the  headquarters  of  the  Swedish  Mission  in  China. 
This  field  was  soon  enlarged  so  as  to  include  38  Hsien  districts 
in  the  provinces  of  Shansi,  Shensi,  and  Honan. 

This  Mission  has  received  many  proofs  of  the  Lord's  never- 
failing  faithfulness.  In  1902  a  telegram  was  received  reporting 
the  gift  of  seven  thousand  Kronor,  shortly  after  a  special  prayer 
meeting  in  which  expenses  connected  with  the  return  of  a  large 
number  of  workers  to  the  field  after  the  Boxer  crisis  were 
laid  before  the  Lord.  In  1912,  28,000  Kronor  were  received 
for  the  building  of  a  Home  for  the  children  of  missionaries 
who  were  unable  to  return  to  the  field  after  the  revolution. 
22,000  Kronor  were  given  at  another  time  towards  the  famine 


APPENDIX  I  359 

relief  work  after  the  Boxer  crisis,  and  in  1909  a  Committee 
was  formed  by  Swedes  residing  in  California,  known  as  the 
Swedish  Mission  in  China's  California  Committee,  as  a  branch 
organization. 

At  the  close  of  1913  the  Mission  had  twelve  central  stations, 
54  missionaries,  937  Church  members,  and  12  schools  with  one 
seminary  for  evangelists. 


THE  SWEDISH  HOLINESS  UNION 

The  Swedish  Holiness  Union  was  the  outcome  of  a  revival 
which  broke  forth  in  1885  in  connection  with  some  meetings 
held  by  Mr.  Hedin  of  Torp.  In  the  summer  of  1887  the  first 
general  Conference  was  held  in  Mr.  Hedin 's  large  barn  at  Torp, 
which  is  an  estate  in  the  province  of  Nerke  ;  from  which  time  a 
yearly  Conference  or  Camp  Meeting  has  been  held.  The  result 
was  that  evangelists  were  sent  forth  to  needy  places  in  Sweden, 
Finland,  and  Denmark.  The  Rev.  C.  J.  A.  Kihlstedt  resigned 
his  living  in  the  Lutheran  Church  in  1899  to  train  these 
evangelists. 

At  one  of  these  yearly  Conferences  at  Torp  there  was  present 
a  young  student  named  Emmanuel  Olsson,  who  had  given  up 
his  studies  at  the  University  to  devote  himself  to  evangelistic 
work,  his  purpose  being  to  work  among  the  Mohammedans  in 
North  Africa.  The  Committee  had  already  accepted  him  for 
this  service  when  he  heard  in  Germany  of  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor's 
appeal  "  To  Every  Creature."  The  result  was  a  prayerful 
reconsideration  of  the  whole  question,  and  the  Committee 
decided  to  take  up  work  in  China.  Emmanuel  Olsson  and 
Nathaniel  Carlesson  sailed  as  the  first  two  workers  towards  the 
close  of  1890,  the  first  of  these  having  a  short  missionary  career 
of  a  little  more  than  three  years,  but  marked  with  almost  apostolic 
devotion  and  fervour.  Other  workers  followed,  until  in  1894, 
during  Mr.  Taylor's  visit  to  Shansi,  ft  seemed  expedient  to 
appoint  this  Mission  a  special  sphere  of  its  own.  During  Mr. 
Taylor's  visit  to  Sweden  in  1896  this  was  definitely  arranged, 
and  the  Swedish  Holiness  Union  was  made  responsible  for  the 
field  between  the  two  arms  of  the  Great  Wall. 

In  1900  all  the  workers  on  the  field,  ten  in  number,  were 
martyred  at  Sopingfu  on  June  29,  the  work  being  reopened  in 
1902,  when  Mr.  August  Karlsson,  who  had  been  absent  on 
furlough  during  the  Boxer  crisis,  returned  to  China  with  three 
new  workers.  The  Mission  has  now  thirty-two  missionaries  on 
the  field,  with  seven  central  stations,  there  being  between  four 


360  APPENDIX  I 

and  five  hundred  communicants  connected  with  these  centres. 
This  Mission,  like  many  others,  has  had  many  signal  instances 
of  the  Lord's  help  in  the  matter  of  funds. 


THE  SCANDINAVIAN  ALLIANCE  MISSION 

The  Scandinavian  Alliance  Mission,  as  already  mentioned  in 
Chapter  XXIX.,  was  the  outcome  of  Mr.  Franson's  work  among 
the  Scandinavian  Churches  of  the  United  States.  The  story 
of  the  going  forth  of  the  first  two  bands  of  fifty  workers  has 
also  been  told  elsewhere.  This  Alliance  has  missionary  work  in 
Japan,  Mongolia,  India,  Africa,  and  South  America,  as  well  as 
in  China,  and  its  object  is  to  encourage  Churches  or  in 
dividuals  to  send  out  their  own  workers  ;  each  Church  or  group 
of  Christians  constituting  a  small  missionary  society  within  the 
Alliance. 

Of  the  workers  who  proceeded  to  China,  some  were  at  first 
designated  to  the  north,  others  were  located  in  Chekiang,  while 
the  ladies  settled  at  Takutang  in  Kiangsi.  During  Mr.  Hudson 
Taylor's  visit  to  Shensi  in  1894  a  special  sphere  in  that  province 
and  Eastern  Kansu  was  appointed  to  this  Mission,  and  the 
following  year,  after  conference  with  Mr.  Franson  during  his 
visit  to  China,  the  workers  in  the  south  were  moved  north. 
This  Mission,  which  has  97  workers  in  the  foreign  field,  has 
56  associated  with  the  C.I.M.  in  China. 


THE  SWEDISH  ALLIANCE  MISSION 

Until  1913  this  Mission  was  known  under  the  name  of  the 
Scandinavian  China  Alliance,  it  being  the  Swedish  branch  of 
that  Mission  which  had  another  centre  in  Chicago.  About  forty 
missionaries  sailed  from  Sweden  during  1892  to  1893,  through 
the  influence  of  Mr.  Franson,  many  of  whom  laid  down  their 
lives  during  1900.  Subsequent  to  the  Boxer  persecutions,  a 
Committee  was  formed  in  Jonkoping,  as  the  Swedish  branch  of 
the  Scandinavian  China  Alliance,  to  assist  the  missionaries  who 
were  spared  to  reopen  their  work.  This  branch  was  financially 
and  administratively  independent .  of  the  American  section.  To 
avoid  confusion,  the  name  was  changed,  as  mentioned  above, 
at  the  Annual  Meeting  of  1913.  The  Mission  has  work  in  Central 
India  and  South  Africa  as  well  as  in  North  China,  there  being 
34  missionaries  in  all,  of  whom  16  are  in  China,  associated  with 
the  C.I.M.  The  income  of  this  Mission  has  increased  from 


APPENDIX  I  361 

30,000  Kroner  in  1905  to  85,000  Kronor  in  1913.  Its  official  organ 
is  the  Trosvittnet,  which  has  a  circulation  of  9000  copies.  Their 
sphere  is  north  of  the  Great  Wall  in  Shansi,  which  sphere  was 
worked  by  the  Christian  Missionary  Alliance  prior  to  the  Boxer 
outbreak. 


THE  NORWEGIAN  MISSION  IN  CHINA 

This  Mission  was  commenced  in  1889,  during  Mr.  Hudson 
Taylor's  visit  to  Christiania,  its  Home  Leader  being  in  the  early 
years  the  late  Captain  Guldberg.  Through  the  failure  of  health 
of  the  workers  in  the  field,  the  Mission  practically  ceased,  but 
in  1905,  during  Mr.  Sloan's  visit  to  Norway,  the  work  was  re 
organized.  In  1910  a  new  Council  was  formed,  with  Mr.  Thorston 
Berger  as  Director,  there  being  ten  workers  in  the  field,  and  its 
sphere  being  known  as  the  North- West  Mountain  District  in 
Shansi. 


THE  NORWEGIAN  ALLIANCE  MISSION 

The  Norwegian  Alliance  Mission,  known  in  full  as  "  The 
Norwegian  Branch  of  the  Scandinavian  Alliance  Mission  "  (Det 
Norske  Missionsforbund),  is  a  Union  consisting  of  39  Free 
Mission  Assemblies  having  work  in  China,  Africa,  and  among 
the  Lapps  and  Fishermen  at  home.  The  China  section  was 
started  in  1899  through  the  instrumentality  of  Mr.  Franson, 
when  Mr.  Hagkvist  visited  the  various  Assemblies  and  aroused 
their  interest  in  the  work  in  China.  On  February  28,  1900, 
Messrs.  K.  Vatsaas  and  J.  A.  Christensen  sailed  from  Christiania 
for  China.  After  several  changes  this  Mission  eventually  pur 
chased  property  at  Lungchiichai  in  Shensi,  which  has  been  its 
centre  ever  since. 


THE  GERMAN  CHINA  ALLIANCE 

In  the  large  manufacturing  town  of  Barmen  the  Lord  had 
laid  it  upon  the  heart  of  Mr.  Polnick  to  commence  some  special 
evangelistic  work  among  a  most  needy  people,  for  the  valley  of 
the  Wupper  was  and  is  known  as  the  Muckertal  (valley  of  the 
bigots).  Much  blessing  followed  this  effort,  and  when  Mr. 
Franson  visited  Barmen  a  gracious  revival  broke  out,  when 
hundreds  were  saved.  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor's  appeal  "  To  Every 
Creature,"  published  at  this  time,  kindled  the  flame  of  missionary 


362  APPENDIX  I 

zeal  in  the  hearts  of  many  of  those  concerned  with  this  movement, 
and  jewels,  watches,  and  even  wedding  rings  were  given  to  God 
for  His  work  abroad.  A  small  Committee  was  formed,  which 
put  itself  into  communication  with  the  Mission  in  London.  The 
result  was  that  the  first  workers  went  forth  in  1890,  so  that  the 
German  China  Alliance  celebrates  its  twenty-five  years  of  service 
while  the  China  Inland  Mission  celebrates  its  Jubilee. 

In  April  1893  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor,  accompanied  by  Dr. 
Baedeker,  visited  Barmen,  from  which  visit  much  blessing  fol 
lowed.  At  this  time  a  separate  district  was  allotted  to  this  Asso 
ciate  Mission  in  the  province  of  Chekiang,  with  Chuchow  as  its 
centre.  In  1897  Mr.  Taylor  and  others  again  visited  Barmen,  when 
a  fuller  understanding  as  to  the  relationship  of  the  Mission  was 
arrived  at.  In  1899,  owing  to  the  growth  of  the  work,  another 
district  in  the  south-east  of  Kiangsi  was  allotted  to  this  Mission, 
so  that  at  the  commencement  of  1914  this  Associate  Mission  had 
five  stations  in  Chekiang  and  five  in  Kiangsi,  with  37  workers 
in  all.  There  are  57  out-stations,  1369  Church  members,  with 
963  inquirers. 


THE  LIEBENZELL  MISSION 

The  origin  of  the  Liebenzell  Mission  may  be  traced  back  to 
the  year  1891,  when  Pastor  Coerper  read  the  German  translation 
of  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor's  book,  A  Retrospect.  In  the  following 
year  he  delivered  a  lecture  on  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor's  life  and  work 
at  the  Student  Volunteer  Conference  at  Frankfurt,  the  result  of 
which  lecture  was  that  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor  was  invited  to  come 
to  a  similar  Conference  in  1893.  Other  meetings  were  addressed 
by  Mr.  Taylor  at  this  time.  Subsequently,  after  Pastor  Coerper 
had  accepted  a  call  as  Pastor  at  Essen  in  Rhenish  Prussia,  he 
again  invited  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor,  who  came  in  1896  after  visiting 
the  Christian  Alliance  Conference  at  Blankenburg  (the  German 
Keswick). 

Although  Pastor  Coerper  earnestly  desired,  with  others,  to 
devote  himself  to  the  service  of  China,  his  way  was  closed  at  this 
time,  but  under  other  auspices  a  beginning  was  made  in  Kiel  at 
the  end  of  1897.  In  1899  it  was  found  necessary  to  make  a 
change  both  in  the  administration  and  location  of  this  work, 
and  on  November  13  of  that  year  Pastor  Coerper  accepted  the 
position  of  leadership,  with  Hamburg  as  his  centre.  This  work 
may  be  regarded  as  the  offspring  of  the  Gemeinschaft,  or  Fellow 
ship  Movement  in  Germany  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  stimulus 
received  by  Mr.  Hudson  Taylor's  work  and  visits  on  the  other. 


APPENDIX  I  363 

In  April  1902  a  house  was  offered  at  Liebenzell  in  the  Black 
Forest,  which  has  ever  since  been  the  headquarters  of  the  Mission. 
Much  blessing  has  followed  the  work  thus  begun,  and  on  July  8, 
1905,  the  foundation  stone  of  a  new  large  building  was  laid, 
which  building  was  dedicated  to  the  service  of  God  in  April 
1907. 

In  the  earlier  years  of  this  Movement  this  work  was  an  integral 
part  of  the  Mission,  but  in  April  1906,  when  Mr.  D.  E.  Hoste  and 
Mr.  W.  B.  Sloan  were  present  at  the  Council  Meetings  of  this 
German  organization,  it  was  decided  that  this  German  branch 
of  the  C.I.M.  should  in  the  future  be  known  as  "  The  Liebenzell 
Mission  associated  with  the  China  Inland  Mission."  The  province 
of  Hunan  was  determined  upon  as  the  special  sphere  of  this 
Mission's  operations,  and  in  this  province  God  has  given  great 
blessing  to  the  work,  for  by  April  1914  there  were  sixty  mission 
aries  in  the  field  in  connection  with  the  Liebenzell  Mission.  It 
may  be  mentioned  that  the  Liebenzell  Mission  also  carries  on 
work  in  the  South  Sea  Islands,  where  it  has  nineteen  missionaries. 


THE  GERMAN  WOMEN'S  MISSIONARY  UNION 

Through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Rev.  E.  Lohmann,  and 
the  independent  working  of  God's  Spirit  in  the  hearts  of  a  number 
of  earnest  Christian  women,  the  German  Women's  Missionary 
Union  was  brought  into  being  in  the  year  1899.  Four  ladies, 
under  the  leadership  of  Frau  von  Bethmann-Hollweg  in  Berlin, 
devoted  themselves  to  calling  the  women  of  Germany  together 
for  prayer.  Prayer  Circles  were  formed  throughout  the  country 
on  interdenominational  lines  under  the  name  of  the  Deutsche 
Frauen  Missions  Bund.  Unexpectedly  these  Prayer  Circles  led 
to  the  contribution  of  money,  and  as  there  had  been  no  thought 
of  forming  a  new  Missionary  Society,  those  who  offered  them 
selves  were  sent  forth  under  already  existing  organizations.  In 
1904  the  first  worker  went  out  to  Ceylon  ;  then  another  in 
connection  with  the  Liebenzell  Mission  in  China,  and  others 
elsewhere.  Through  a  friendship  with  Miss  H.  E.  Soltau  the 
Committee  was  drawn  into  touch  with  the  C.I.M.  in  London, 
and  in  1908  the  first  sister  in  association  with  the  C.I.M.  was 
sent  forth.  Altogether  there  are  fifteen  workers  in  the  Foreign 
Field  in  connection  with  this  Missionary  Union,  of  which 
number  four  are  associated  with  the  C.I.M.  At  home  there  are 
more  than  6000  members  of  the  Prayer  Circles  who,  by  means 
of  a  little  monthly  paper,  are  brought  into  close  touch  with 
the  work  abroad. 


364  APPENDIX  I 


THE  FRIEDENSHORT  DEACONESS  MISSION 

Sister  Eva  von  Tiele  Winckler,  the  leader  of  a  Deaconess 
organization  in  the  south-east  of  Germany  near  the  Russian 
frontier,  had,  some  years  ago,  the  needs  of  the  Hill  Tribes  of 
Western  China  laid  upon  her  heart.  In  1909  she  met  Mrs. 
Howard  Taylor  at  St.  Chrischona,  from  which  time  a  more 
definite  sense  of  responsibility  for  the  Aborigines  of  South- West 
China  possessed  her.  In  January  1912  one  of  the  Deaconess 
workers,  on  her  death-bed,  left  her  little  possessions,  amounting 
to  £350,  for  the  carrying  on  of  this  work,  and  ere  she  died  sought 
God's  blessing  on  a  beloved  fellow-deaconess  for  this  purpose. 

In  March  1911  the  whole  subject  was  personally  laid  before  the 
London  Council,  with  the  result  that  a  band  of  four  Deaconesses 
sailed  for  China  on  August  2,  1912,  after  a  period  of  training 
in  London.  These  workers  are  now  located  at  Anping  in 
Kweichow. 

THE  FINNISH  FREE  CHURCH 

The  Free  Church  of  Finland  was  organized  as  a  religious  body 
in  1889,  the  membership  being  a  little  over  one  thousand.  At 
one  of  the  meetings  held  at  Ekenas  during  the  first  year  the 
missionary  obligation  was  discussed,  and  a  sum  of  1300  Marks 
(£52)  was  contributed.  It  was  proposed  that  their  Mission  work 
should  be  associated  with  the  C.I.M.,  and  Miss  Agnes  Meijer  was 
set  apart  as  the  first  missionary  at  the  First  Annual  Conference  of 
the  Free  Church  held  at  Abo  in  1890.  In  January  1891  Miss 
Meijer  sailed  for  China,  td  be  followed  in  1892  by  Misses  Vera 
Hammaren  and  Vilhelmina  Arpiainen.  The  Russian  Govern 
ment,  however,  in  consequence  of  the  murder  of  two  Swedish 
missionaries  in  Hupeh,  declined  to  give  these  workers  passports 
for  the  interior. 

In  1896  Miss  Meijer  was  summoned  home  to  Finland  to 
undertake  Deputation  work,  and  in  consequence  of  her  meetings 
a  generous  response  in  money  was  received  and  three  new  workers 
were  appointed  to  China.  In  October  1897  Miss  Meijer  died 
after  an  operation.  In  1898  the  Russian  Government  con 
sented  to  give  passports,  and  Yungsin  in  Kiangsi  was  eventually 
chosen  as  their  special  field,  but  not  before  Miss  Arpiainen  had 
made  two  attempts  to  settle  in  Hunan,  which  had  at  first  been 
suggested  as  the  field.  Other  workers  followed,  and  in  1907 
Yungfenghsien  was  opened  as  a  second  Finnish  Free  Church 
station. 


APPENDIX  I  365 

The  work  in  Finland  has  been  visited  three  or  four  times  by 
Mr.  W.  B.  Sloan,  once  by  Mr.  Wood  in  1900,  and  by  Mr.  William 
Taylor,  Superintendent  of  North  and  North-East  Kiangsi,  in  1912. 


THE  ST.  CHRISCHONA  PILGRIM  MISSION 

This  Mission  was  founded  in  1840  by  Mr.  C.  F.  Spittler,  who 
twenty-five  years  before  had  been  used  to  give  the  first  impetus 
to  the  founding  of  the  Basel  Missionary  Society.  While  desirous 
not  to  hinder  other  existing  work,  he  felt  there  was  scope  for 
those  who  had  not  had  the  advantages  of  the  six  years'  term  of 
study  prescribed  by  the  Missionary  Institute  at  Basel.  Having 
no  pecuniary  resources  whatever,  and  being  wishful  not  to  trench 
upon  the  finances  needed  elsewhere,  he  commenced  the  work  in 
the  utmost  poverty  and  simplicity,  which  fact  has  given  to  the 
whole  Mission  its  peculiar  character. 

St.  Chrischona  is  the  name  of  an  old  church,  built  on  the  top 
of  a  wooded  hill  about  six  miles  from  Basel,  which  in  olden  times 
was  a  place  of  pilgrimage.  Sadly  devastated  during  the  Thirty 
Years'  War,  it  had  lain  almost  a  ruin  for  more  than  two  centuries. 
Here  it  was  that  the  Pilgrim  Mission  (so  called  from  Spittler's 
intense  desire  that  its  members  should  cultivate  the  pilgrim's 
spirit)  was  begun.  The  work  developed  slowly  but  surely,  and 
numbers  of  young  men  were  sent  out  to  work  in  Palestine,  Egypt, 
Nubia,  Abyssinia,  and  other  lands.  At  the  present  time  about 
nine  hundred  Chrischona  brethren  are  at  work  in  different 
countries  and  under  many  Missionary  Societies.  A  band  of 
about  eighty  evangelists  are  supported  and  directed  by  the 
Pilgrim  Mission  itself. 

In  1868  the  Rev.  C.  H.  Rappard  was  called  to  take  charge 
of  the  Pilgrim  Mission,  and  for  forty-one  years  he  and  Mrs. 
Rappard  devoted  their  lives  and  gifts  to  the  furtherance  of  the 
cause  of  Christ.  In  1895  the  St.  Chrischona  branch  of  the 
C.I.M.  was  formed  by  the  sending  out  of  their  first  missionary  to 
China,  Mr.  G.  Domay,  and  from  the  first  there  has  been  thorough 
sympathy  between  our  friends  at  St.  Chrischona  and  the  C.I.M. 
The  little  staff  of  the  St.  Chrischona  band  now  numbers  four 
men  and  seven  women,  while  others  hope  to  enter  the  field  in 
the  near  future.  It  should  be  stated  that  these  workers 
from  St.  Chrischona  become  members  of  the  C.I.M.  and  not 
associates. 

After  the  Home-Call  of  the  beloved  Inspector,  C.  H.  Rappard, 
in  1909,  his  son-in-law,  Inspector  Fred.  Veiel,  was  called  to  the 
office  of  Director  of  the  Pilgrim  Mission. 


APPENDIX  II 


CHRONOLOGICAL  SUMMARY 

INTRODUCTORY 

1832  May  21.         Birth    of    James    Hudson    Taylor    at    Barnsley, 

Yorkshire. 
1850  Taiping  Rebellion  commences. 

1853  Sept.  19.        J.  Hudson  Taylor  sails  for  China. 

1854  March  I.        J.  Hudson  Taylor  lands  in  Shanghai. 

1 855-73  Great  Mohammedan  Rebellion  in  Yunnan. 

1857  J.   Hudson   Taylor  resigns    from    Chinese  Evan 

gelization  Society. 
„  Commences  independent  work  in  Chekiang. 

1858  January.        J.  Hudson  Taylor  marries  Miss  Maria  Dyer. 
1860  Jan.  16.         J.    Hudson    Taylor    writes    home    appealing    for 

helpers. 

,,      July.  J.  Hudson  Taylor  sails  for  England. 

1862-76  Great  Mohammedan  Rebellion  in  North-West. 

1862   Jan.  8.  Mr.    and    Mrs.    Meadows   sail;     reach    Shanghai 

May  24. 
1865  April  12.       Messrs.    George    Crombie    and    Stephen    Barchet 

sail  (free  passage). 
„      April  26.       Miss  Skinner  (Mrs.  Crombie)  sails. 


THE  FIRST  DECADE 

1865  June  25.        J.    Hudson    Taylor    yields    himself    to    God    at 

Brighton  as  leader.     Mission   organized   under 

name  of  China  Inland  Mission. 
,,      Oct.  3.  Mr.  and  Mrs.   J.  W.  Stevenson  and  Mr.  George 

Stott  sail. 
October.        First  edition  of  China's  Spiritual  Need  and  Claims 

published. 
„      Dec.  30.         (Saturday)  Set  aside  as  Day  of  Fasting  and  Prayer. 

1866  March  12.     No.  i  Occasional  Papers  published. 

366 


APPENDIX  II 


367 


1866  May.  Fenghwa  opened  by  Mr.  Crombie. 

May  26.         Lammerniuiv  Party  sail  (Shanghai,  Sept.  30). 
September.   Shaohingfu  opened  by  Mr.  J.  W.  Stevenson. 
,,      Nov.  27.        Lammermuir  Party  settle  at  Hangchow. 

1867  January.       Riot  at  Siaoshan. 

,,      May.  Death  of   Mr.   Sell  of    Lammermuir  Party  from 

smallpox. 

,,      July.  Messrs.  Meadows  and  Jackson  open  Taichowfu. 

August.         Death    of    Mr.    and    Mrs.    Taylor's    eldest    child 

Gracie. 
,,      Sept.  1 8.       Mr.    George    Duncan    settles    in    Drum    Tower, 

Nanking. 

,,      November.    Mr.  Stott  opens  Wenchow. 
,,  ,,  Riot  at  Huchowfu. 

1868  March.  Soochow  occupied. 

,,      June.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Taylor  reach  Yangchow. 

,,         ,,  Premises  rented  in  Chinkiang. 

,,      Aug.  22-23.  Yangchow  Riot. 

,,      Nov.  1 8.        Mr.  Taylor  reinstated  in  Yangchow. 

1869  January.       Messrs.  Meadows  and  Williamson  open  Anking. 

,,      July  20.        Premises  rented  at  Tsingkiangpu  by  Mr.  Duncan. 
„      September.   Riot  at  Anking.     (Reinstated  Feb.  23,  1870.) 
,,      December.    Mr.  Card  well  settles  at  Kiukiang. 

1870  June.  Tientsin  Massacre. 

,,      July  23.        Mrs.  Hudson  Taylor  dies. 

1871  Sept.  26.       J.  Hudson  Taylor  sails  for  England. 

,,      Nov.  28.        J.  Hudson  Taylor  married  to  Miss  Faulding. 

1872  March.  Mr.  W.  T.  Berger  retires  from  Direction  of  Home 

Department. 
,,      September.  Messrs.    R.    H.    Hill   and   Henry   Soltau   become 

Honorary  Secretaries. 

,,      Oct.  4.  First  Meeting  of  London  Council. 

,,      Oct.  9.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hudson  Taylor  sail  for  China. 

1873  Shanghai  opened  as  C.I.M.  Business  Centre. 
Feb.  23.        Mr.  George  Duncan  dies. 

December.    Gift  of  ^800  for  Unoccupied  Provinces. 

1874  May.  J.  Hudson  Taylor  falls  and  injures  spine. 

„      June.  Mr.  Judd  settles  in  Wuchang  as  base  for  Far  West. 

,,      July  25.        Miss  Blatchley  dies. 

,,      July  27.        Mr.  and  Mrs.  J.  W.  Stevenson  and  family  reach 

England. 
,,          ,,  Mr.    Meadows   takes   charge   of   Shaohingfu   and 

continues  here  for  forty  years. 

„      Oct.  14.         Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hudson  Taylor  reach  England. 
,,      Oct.  23.         Mrs.  Rudland  dies. 
„      November.    Messrs.     Meadows     and     Douthwaite     rioted     at 

Huchowfu.     Riots  also  near  Kiukiang  and  at 

Soochow. 


368 


APPENDIX  II 


THE  SECOND  DECADE 

1875  January.       Appeal  for  eighteen  missionaries  published. 
,,      Feb.  21.        Margary  murdered  in  Yunnan. 

„      March.  Last  number  of  Occasional  Papers  published. 

,,      April  3.         Henry  Taylor  starts  first  journey  into  Honan. 

Kaifengfu   reached    in   December   during   second 
journey. 

„  April  6.  J.  W.  Stevenson  and  H.  Soltau  sail  for  Burma. 
Bhamo  reached  October  3.  Building  site 
obtained  January  1876.  Ere  house  ready, 
Dr.  and  Mrs.  Harvey  and  Adams  arrive. 

,,      June.  C.    H.    Judd   pays   first  visit  to   Hunan.     Rents 

premises  Yochow. 

,,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  B.  Broomhall  go  to  Pyrland  Road. 

,,      July.  China's  Millions  first  issued. 

Oct.  5.  Mr.    Theodore    Howard    appointed    Chairman    of 

London  Council. 
Draft  of  Principles  and  Practice  submitted. 

1876  February.     Dr.  and  Mrs.  Harvey  sail  to  start  Bhamo  Medical 

Mission. 

,,      April.  First  convert  baptized  in  Honan. 

,,      May.  Annual  Meetings  first  held  in  London. 

,,      August.         Bailer  and  King  start  for  Shensi.     Back  Wuchang 

October. 
Sept.     7.       Hudson   Taylor   and   large   party   of  ladies   sail. 

Arrive  Shanghai  October  22. 
Sept.  13.       Chef oo    Convention    signed.      (Ratified    May    6, 

1886.) 
Oct.  17.         James    and    Turner    start    for    Shansi.     Border 

crossed  November  15. 
,,  ,,  Easton    and    Parker    start    for    Kansu.     Border 

crossed  December. 
,,      Nov.  8.          Messrs.  King,  Budd,  Easton,  and  Parker  leave  for 

Shensi  and  Kansu. 
Sianfu  reached  December  21. 
Kansu  border  crossed  December  29. 

December.    Cameron  and  Nicoll  start  for  Ichang  for  Szechwan. 
,,  Captain  Yii  staits  work  over  Kiangsi  Border. 

1877  Jan.  2.  Judd    and    Broumton    start    for    Kweichow    via 

Hunan. 

Cross  Border  February  3. 
J.  M'Carthy  leaves  Chinkiang  to  cross  China. 
Bhamo  reached  August  26. 

Feb.  10.         Turner  and  James  start  second  journey  to  Shansi. 
„      Mar.  3.  Cameron,  Nicoll,  and  M'Carthy  rioted  at  Ichang. 

C.  H.  Judd  at  Chungking. 


APPENDIX  II 


369 


1877  May  i.  J.  M'Carthy  reaches  Chungking  and  rents  premises. 
,,      May  10-22.   General  Missionary  Conference  at  Shanghai. 

„      July.  G.   Clarke,    E.    Fishe,    and   R.    J.   Landale   enter 

Kweichow. 

,,      Sept.  6.         Edward  Fishe  dies  at  Kweiyang. 
,,      Nov.  28.        Turner  and  James  leave  Taiyuanfu  for  the  coast. 
,,      Nov.  30.        Dr.  Timothy  Richard  reaches  Taiyuanfu. 

1878  Messrs.   David  Hill,   Turner,   and    Whiting  reach 

Shansi  with  relief  funds. 
,,      Oct.  23.         Mrs.  Hudson  Taylor  and  party*  reach  Taiyuanfu. 

1879  Feb.     5.        Mr.  B.  Broomhall  appointed  General  Secretary. 

,,      Feb.  10.        Mr.  Theodore  Howard  appointed  Home  Director. 
,,      May  8.  Mr.   and   Mrs.   Taylor  and  Mr.   Coulthard  reach 

Chefoo.     Sanatorium,  etc.,  decided  upon. 

November.    Mr.    and    Mrs.    G.    King   settle    at    Hanchungfu, 
Shensi. 

1880  January.       Mr.  and  Mrs.  G.  Clarke  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Nicoll 

reach  Chungking. 
,,      February.     Mr.  and  Mrs.  G.  Clarke  settle  at  Kweiyang. 

Feb.  19.        Mrs.  Wm.  M'Carthy  and  Miss  Kidd,  with  escort, 

start  for  Kweichow  via  Hunan. 

March  i.       Misses  Wilson  and  Faussett  start  for  Shensi. 
,,      April  7.         Dr.  and  Mrs.  Schofield  and  Mr.  R.  J.  Landale  sail 

for  China. 
,,      August.         Mr.  Taylor  and  Mr.  Coulthard  made  first  journey 

along  Kwangsin  River. 
Oct.  18.         Dorward  starts  for  Hunan. 

Nov.  29.        Stevenson  and  Soltau  start  first  journey  across 
China,  west  to  east. 

1 88 1  January.       Mr.  and  Mrs.  G.  Parker  and  Miss  Wilson  settle  at 

Tsinchow,  Kansu. 
,,      March.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Broumton,  Miss  Kerr,  etc.,  start  for 

Kweichow  via  Hunan. 

Mr.  W.  L.  Elliston  commences  Chefoo  School. 
,,      June  7.          Mr.  and  Mrs.  G.  Clarke  settle  at  Talifu,  Yunnan. 

November.    Appeal  for  the  Seventy. 
,,      Dec.  24.        Mr.  and  Mrs.  Henry  Hunt  settle  at  Runingfu. 

1882  January.       Dorward  rents  premises  at  Hungkiang,   Hunan. 

Held  till  December  17,  1883. 
April.  Dr.  Douthwaite  starts  his  work  at  Chefoo. 


THE  THIRD  DECADE 

1885  Feb.  5.  Sailing  of  the  Cambridge  Seven. 

1886  March.  Rev.  J.  W.  Stevenson  appointed  Deputy  Director 

in  China. 

,,      August  5.      Pastor  Hsi  set  apart. 
„      November     First  Meeting  of  China  Council. 

2B 


370 


APPENDIX  II 


1887  Jan. -Dec.      Sailing  of  The  Hundred. 

,,      September.   Inglesby  House  and  site  of  new  London  Head 
quarters  bought. 

1888  July.  Mr.  Taylor's  first  visit  to  North  America. 

„      Sept.  25.       Departure  of  first  North  American  C.I.M.  party. 

1889  June.  London  Ladies'  Council  formed. 

,,      July.  Mr.  Taylor's  second  visit  to  North  America. 

„      September.  Mr.  Berger  by  generous  gift  founds  Superannuation 

Fund. 

„      October.        Scottish  Auxiliary  Council  formed. 
„  „  Mr.  Taylor  issues  "  To  Every  Creature." 

„      November.    Mr.  Taylor  visits  Sweden  and  Norway. 

1890  January.       Miss    Soltau    takes    over   Women's    Department, 

London. 

„      Feb.  18.        New  C.I.M.  premises  at  Shanghai  occupied. 
„      March.  Date  of  Mr.  G.  Soltau's  letter  from  Australia. 

„      April  29.       Rev.    Charles    H.    Parsons,    first    member    from 

Australasia,  arrives  at  Shanghai. 

,,      May  7-20.     General  Missionary  Conference,  Shanghai. 
„      May  21.         Formation  of  Australasian  Council  authorized  by 

cable. 

„      June.  Formation  of  German  China  Alliance. 

„      August.         Mr.  Taylor's  first  visit  to  Australia. 
„      Nov.  20.        Sailing  of  first  Australasian  C.I.M.  party. 

1891  January.       Sailing  of  first  Scandinavian  China  Alliance  Party. 
1893  Mr.    Frost   appointed    Home   Director   in    North 

America. 


THE  FOURTH  DECADE 

1895  March.  Mr.  B.  Broomhall  retires  from  Secretaryship. 
,,      April.  Opening  of  New  Offices  on  Newington  Green. 

„      April  17.       Treaty  of  Shimonoseki  closes  Chino- Japanese  War. 
,,      May.  Beginning  of  Szechwan  riots. 

,,      August  i.      Kucheng  Massacre. 

„      Oct.  1 8.         Rev.  W.  W.  Cassels  consecrated  first  Bishop  of 
western  China. 

1896  June  15.        Foundation  Stone  of  new  C.I.M.  Chefoo  Schools 

laid. 

Summer.       Miss  Jacobsen  settles  in  Hunan  village. 
July.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Webb  settle  at  Panghai  among  Black 

Miao. 

1897  September.  Deeds  of  House  at  Changteh,  Hunan,  obtained. 

1898  Nov.  4.          Murder  of  Mr.  W.  S.  Fleming  in  Kweichow. 

1900  July-Nov.     Boxer  Crisis. 

1901  March.  Mr.    D.    E.    Hoste    appointed    Acting    General 

Director. 
June  8.         Dr.  Keller  settles  in  Changsha,  Hunan. 


APPENDIX  II  371 

1901.  September  Boxer  Peace  Protocol  signed. 

1902  January.       Chinese  Court  returned  to  Peking. 

,,  Messrs.  Bruce  and  Lowis  murdered  at  Sherichow, 

Hunan. 

1903  Jan.     i.         Mr.  D.  E.  Hoste  appointed  General  Director. 

,,      Jan.  31.         Mr.    W.    B.    Sloan    appointed    Assistant    Home 
Director  for  Great  Britain. 

THE  FIFTH  DECADE 

1905  June  3.          Mr.  Hudson  Taylor  died. 

„      September.  Abolition  of  old  Educational  System. 

1906  May  30.         Important  Anti-Opium  Debate  in  Parliament. 

,,  Large  Ingathering   among   Aborigines    from    this 

year. 
Urumchi    made    Headquarters    by    Mr.    George 

Hunter. 

1908  Nov.    14       Death    of    Emperor    Kwang    Hsu    and    Empress 
and  15.  Dowager  Tsu  Hsi. 

1911  Oct.     9.         Outbreak  of  Revolution. 

,,      Oct.  22.         Murder   of  Mrs.    Beckman,    Mr.    Vatne,    and   six 
children  at  Sianfu. 

1912  Feb.  12.        Abdication  of  Manchu  Dynasty. 

1913  April  27.       Day  of  Prayer  appointed  by  Chinese  Government. 
,,      May  7.  Total    Cessation    of    Indo-Chinese    Opium    Trade 

announced  in  Parliament. 

1914  August  i.      Commencement  of  Great  European  War. 

,,      September.   Rev.  J.  Stuart  Holden  appointed  Home  Director 
in  Great  Britain. 


372 


APPENDIX  III 


aptized 
>m  Com- 
ncement. 

Tf    CO     10    M 

rv.         C^  w    *O     t>s 

H?    txco"    6" 

PQ,C  v 

M      10 

a  Ij 

00     N     M 

f"L  C    Q, 

O     CO   t>» 

58£ 

M      CO    O 

M 

til 

^         H 

ON  0     rf 

H 

z 

W             M    Cx  N    O       O     , 

OllcIS 

co  CO  O 

S                                  w 

U|U 

H 

W                       ^.    W       ^     ^          Tf 

0                   M      M      M      M          H 

| 

W                   C^      0    00      ON         S 

il 

vO        tv  Tf  to  co 

CO        CO    O     N    O 
M   o  00    O 

S                    Tf    C<      N      O          ° 

|              ^co     M     Tf       0^ 

Tf    0      CO    M~         0 

t^H     ^ 

H 

r   \                     Q       Tt"    O^1     M             ** 
^                     CO    <S                M           *^ 

W           i-T                    M 

P 
w 

I-H                          tf 

h-  1                          < 
PH 

Organized 
Churches. 

00        10  ON  00     Tf 

N              Tf     Tf     M       10 
M      Tf    tx 

0                     ffi                 SQ                                ^ 

£               H 
o                   w     W2           , 

o              ^    Q 
>>                    ^ 

"cu                 tu    ^ 

5; 

•II 

o 

K>          CO        0 

-    c  a 

Q     £    § 

1 

CO 

rv.           M      Tf    IO    tx 

H      CO 

1       s«    ' 
'§       8  S 

1     -  s   .,,-.- 

H^p                                U 

>,                        I-J       W                       Tf 

w    £  s 

PL,      ^     > 

Q. 
^ 
(J 

tx  ro  co  Tf 
vO    co  O    ON 
CJ     t^   N 

t  -t;  -2    ^ 

§           H  §       •  2     •     .    g 

PH                 £ 

^*H                          Cd 

- 

I                   IS                   H- 

^              a 

•     C 

OO             Tf    CO    M      O 

HH 

H 

3.2 

CO         Tf   (N     C<     O 
M      IO    M 

OJ                     V)     (1, 

CO 

M 

H            g   <          0 

W                  rt 

£      .S-c 

C 

.2 

rt 

CO          O      M      O      *>» 

M         CO  M    O     C^ 

§      111 

CO 

w  ^  -3  • 

s    ^al^ 

•              •        •         •         • 

<5                 g     VH     W    .5 

g             C    0    3  ^ 

I        0£<JU 

«         • 

P 

(^ 

•8 

O            Q^ 

•e 

0)       rt  >rl    rt    ^ 

W 

*"O       o    f^    o  '^ 
oj       tu    o    <D    rt 

O        O     OJ   Q     rTi 
C^        ^"^   /*s   ^"^ 

w  ills 

•rH               flj     i-M       O     •  -H 

(H      {/j  H  fe  fa 

APPENDIX  III 


373 


jo  saoanog  j[B  uiojj  auioouj 


uinidQ  PUB 


M^O 

O        O 


•SIooqDS 


\O        IH        o        r-.\o 

VO  O          roa.<N 


-spoqog 


B 
P 


•JU3UI3DU3UIUIOD 

uiojj 


vg     5 


nts 
ip. 


mmu 
Fell 


saadpjj  3sautq3 


r-.N\O 
N  -^-\O 


Ooo         to        in      co         M         O 


•ppui)  S3A1M  J 


Stat 
Miss 


OvO         ro 


inioro^-oo  tx^ 
O^^-^txM  w  ON 
OOOOi-iMN 


Noav 

rOM\o 


•«•        tx        O 
OOOO          ON 


NNNNN 


INDEX 


Abeel  (Rev.  D.),  arrival  in  China,  5 
Aborigines — 

work  amongst,  237-241,  274-281 

baptismal  names,  280 

rules  of  Church  membership,  280 

medical  work  amongst,  330 
Adam  (J.  R.)— 

with  Mr.  Windsor,  recovers  Fleming's 
body,  240 

his  work  amongst  the  tribes,  274 
Adams  (Mr.) — 

joins  the  Mission,  103 

goes  to  Bhamo,  106 
Aim  of  the  Mission,  89-90 
Alabaster  (Consul  Charles),  commenda 
tion  of  the  Mission,  155 
Alcock  (Sir  Rutherford),  55 

and  Yangchow  Riot,  59 
Aldersey    (Miss),    first    single   lady    to 

enter  China  proper,  122 
Alexander  (B.),  234 
Ambler  (P.  V.),  volunteers  for  Shansi, 

243 
American  Centre  of  C.I.M. — 

chapter  on,  183-190 

beginning  of  work,  184 

first  workers,  186 

provisional  Council,  187 

permanent  Council,  188 

"  American     Lammermuir     party," 

187 
American  Methodist  Episcopal  Mission, 

in  Kiukiang,  65 
American  Presbyterian  Mission — 

Rev.  A.  Whiting's  work  and  death, 
109 

Mr.  Leaman  starts  for  Chengtu,  113 

two  lady  workers  at  Sayow,  123 

in  Hunan,  232 

Amoy  opened  to  foreign  trade,  6 
Amundsen  (Mr.),  at  Tatsienlu,  284 
Anderson  (Dr.  and  Mrs.  J.  A.),  298 
Anhwei — 

attempt  to  open  province,  64 

a  preaching  tour  in,  337-340 
Anjen,  opened,  180 


Anking — 

reached  by  C.I.M.  Missionaries,  64 
premises  secured  and  riot,  65 
Training  Home  appointed,  172 

Anshunfu,  premises  rented,  274 

Anti-opium  campaign  in  China,  273 

Apostle     Thomas,    reported     as    first 
missionary  to  China,  4 

Appeal  for  the  Eighteen,  the,  99-104 
for   "  The  Thousand,"    193 
of  General  Missionary  Conference  in 
1877,  191 

Arrow,  seizure  of  the  lorcha,  15 

Associate  Missions — 

division  of  territory,  210 
sketch  of,  357-365 

Atuntsu,  last  Tibetan  town  in  Yunnan, 

H3 
Australasia — 

chapter  on,  199-205 
C.I.M.  Council  formed,  201 
first  party  of  workers,  201 
Australia's  "  Hundred,"  202 
China's  Millions,  first  issue,  203 

Bagnall  (B.)— 

appointed  Superintendent,  171 

superintends  work  in  Chihli,  211 
Ballard   (T.   J.    and   Mrs.),   of  H.I.M. 

Customs,  133 
Bailer  (F.  W.),  sails  for  China,  89 

visits  Shensi,  106,  no 

escorts  Mrs.  Taylor  to  Shansi,  125 

escorts  to  Kweichow,  130 

appointed  Superintendent,  171 

helps  at  Chefoo,  226 

his  literary  work,  300 
Baptisms — 

rapid  progress,  268 

statistics,  350 
Baptist  Missionary  Magazine,  Hudson 

Taylor's  articles,  23 
Baptist  Missionary  Society,   145,  270, 

296 

Baring-Gould  (Rev.  B.),  C.M.S.  Secre 
tary,  208 


375 


37^ 


INDEX 


Barnardo  (Dr.  Thomas),  29 

acts  as  Referee,  81 
Barrie  (Dr.),  298 
Basis  of  the  C.I.M.,  30 
Batang — 

first  visited,  113 

work  begun,  284 

Bausum  (Miss),  sails  for  China,  38 
Beauchamp  (Montagu) — 

joins  Cambridge  Band,  164 

as  pioneer-evangelist,  168 

accompanies  Mr.  Taylor  to  Australia, 
201 

experience  in  mass  movements,  268 
Beckman  (Mrs.),  matryred,  323 
Bell  (Miss  Mary),  sails  for  China,  38 
Benson  (Archbishop),  208 
Berger  (W.  T.),  24 

cares  for  work  at  home,  25,  28 

his  home,  39 

his  letter  to  the  Times,  62 

retirement,  80 

his  letters  re  finance,  83-85 

special  gifts,  175,  220 
Bhamo — 

opened,  103 

site  secured,  106 

Medical  Mission  started,  142 
Bible  Christian  Mission,  three  pioneer 

workers,  174 
Bible  Training  Institutes,  294-296 

a  day's  programme,  334-335 
Bird    (Rev.    Alfred),    first    Honorary 
Secretary  of  C.I.M.  in  Melbourne, 
199-201 
Blatchley  (Miss  E.)— 

sails  for  China,  38 

goes  to  Soochow,  54 

in  Yangchow,  57 

as  unofficial  Secretary,  86 

death  of,  93 

Dr.  Grattan  Guinness'  tribute  to,  94 
Blind,  work  amongst  the,  293 
Bolton  (H.  E.),  school  work  at  Panghai, 

239 

Borden  (Wm.),  Memorial  Hospital,  299 
Botham      (Mr.),      Assistant     Superin 
tendent    in    Shensi    and     Kansu, 
211 
Bowyer  (Miss)  (Mrs.  Bailer)— 

sails  for  China,  38 

settles  in  Chinkiang,  76 

ill  with  smallpox,  87 

returns  to  China,  89 
Boxer  Crisis,  the,  242  et  seq. 
Bridgman  (Dr.  E.  C.),  arrival  in  China,  5 
Brighton,  Hudson  Taylor's  decision  and 

prayer  at,  25 

British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society,  64, 
218,  288 


Broomhall  (B.  and  Mrs.) — 
move  to  Pyrland  Road,  116 
appointed  General  Secretary,  117 
Mrs.  Broomhall's  call  to  care  for  Mr. 

Taylor's  children,  125 
a  widow's  letter,  174 
Council  minutes  re,  222 

Broomhall,  Hudson,  167 

Broomhall  (Miss)  (Mrs.  Hoste),  167 

Broumton  (J.  F.) — 
joins  Mission,  104 
starts  for  Kweichow,  107 
travels  through   Hunan  into   Kwei 
chow,  in 
first  Protestant  Missionary  to  settle 

in  Kweichow,  237 
as  Treasurer,  316 

Broumton  (Mrs.),  wrecked  in  Hunan, 
130 

Brown  (G.  Graham),  221 

Bruce    (J.    R.),    murdered   in    Hunan, 
234,  254 

Budd  (CO- 
joms  Mission,  104 
goes  to  Shensi,  106 
reaches  Yennanfu  in  Shensi,  no 

Burdon  (Rev.  J.  S.),  14 

Burns  (Rev.  William),  14,  15 

Burrows      Memorial      Bible     Training 
Institute,  295 

Byron  (Miss),  179 

Cable  (Miss  M.),  343 

"  Cambridge  Seven,  The,"  163-169 

Cameron  (Dr.  J.) — 

joins  Mission,  104 

starts  for  Ichang,  107 

brief  survey  of  journeys,  113 

his  death,  204 

visits  Tibetan  border,  282 
Canadian  Methodist  Mission  rioted,  216 
Cardwell  (J.  E.  and  Mrs.),  52 

itinerations  in  Kiangsi,  66,  76,  89 

superintends  Kweiki,  139 
Carr  (Dr.  J.  C.),  297 
Carr  (Dr.  Sidney  H.),  297 
Cassels  (W.  W.)— 

meets  (London  Council,  164 

consecrated  Bishop,  168,  208 

takes  charge  of  Paoning  work,  207 

report  re  mass  movements,  268 

his  report  on  revival,  271 
Challice    (John),    appointed   on    Home 

Council,  8 1 

Chang  Chih-tung  (Viceroy),  245 
Changsha — 

opened,  182 

premises  bought,  234 

hospital  work,  298 
Chao  (H.E.),  285,  286 


INDEX 


377 


Chapman  (Miss),  250 

Chapman    (Rev.    Samuel),    his    death, 

202 

Chapman  (Robert)  acts  as  Referee,  81 
Chefoo  Convention  signed,  105 

its  terms,  etc.,  106 
Chefoo,  Mr.  Taylor's  first  visit  to,  133 
Chefoo  Schools,  134,  225-229 
Chekiang,  divisions  of,  90 

martyrs  in,  250 
Chenchowfu  opened,  298 
Chenery  (Chas.),  accidentally  drowned, 

240 

Chenghsien,  occupied,  66 
Chengtu — 

first  visited,  113 

riot,  216 

Chengtu  Bible  Training  School,  295 
Chihli,  martyrs  in,  250 
China  Council,  first  meeting,  172 
"  China  Inland  Mission,"  adoption  of 
the  name,  31 

date  of  organization,  99 

becomes  international,  183 
China  Medical  Missionary  Association 

Reception  at  Peking,  342 
China's  Millions,  first  issue,  118 
China's    Spiritual    Need    and    Claims, 

publication  of,  27 
Chinese  Evangelization  Society,  6,  n, 

16,  94 

Chinese  Government,  proposed  regula 
tions  for  control  of  Missions,  73 
Chinese  Missionary  Society  formed,  88 
Chinese  students  in  Japan,  264 
Chinese  Turkestan,  287 
Chinkiang — 

premises  rented,  55 

its  strategic  importance,  63 

new  mission  premises  occupied,  66 

centre  for  women's  work,  75 
Chino- Japanese  War,  182,  216 
Christian  and  Missionary  Alliance,  211 

in  Hunan,  232 

Chronological  Summary,  366-371 
Ch'ii  (Mr.),  ordained  Pastor  of  Taning 

and  Sichow,  168 
Chungking,  premises  rented,  112 
Church  Missionary  Society,   207,  208, 

217 
Church  of  England  Zenana  Missionary 

Society,  217 

Clark  (Dr.  W.  T.),  297,  298 
Clarke  (George) — 

joins  Mission,  104 

starts  for  Kweichow,  107 

travels  into  Kweichow,  in 

starts  for  Kwangsi,  111-112 

goes  to  Yunnan,  131 

death  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  131 


Clarke  (Samuel) — 

sails  for  China,  125 

at  Panghai,  238 

at  Kweiyang,  237 
Clinton  (Mr.),  232 

Coates  (Mr.  and  Mrs.),  at  Weiku,  285 
Coborn  Road,  29,  34,  39 
Compensation,    Mission's    policy,     60, 

255-257 
Continent,  first  C.I.M.  meetings  on  the, 

133 

Conway  (H.  S.),  329 
Cooper  (E.  J.),  226 
Cooper  (W.)-— 

appointed  superintendent,  171 

as  Travelling  Director  and  death  of, 

250 
Cordon  (Henry  and  Mrs.),  in  Soochow, 

Coulthard  (J.  J.)— 
sails  for  China,  133 
accompanies  Mr.  Taylor,  139,  210 
Council    (Home)    formed    in    London, 

81 

for  North  America,  188 
for  Australasia,  200 
Cox  (Dr.),  298 
Cox    (Rev.    Josiah),    first    Protestant 

missionary  to  enter  Hunan,  146 
Crickmay     (Miss),    accompanies    Mrs. 

Taylor  to  Shansi,  125 
Crombie  (G.  and  Mrs.) — 
settled  at  Fenghwa,  44 
open  Ninghaihsien,  53 
leave  for  furlough,  71 
resume     work     at     Fenghwa     and 

Ninghai,  87 

Cumberland    Presbyterian   Mission,  in 
Hunan,  232 

Date  of  Mission  Year  changed,  99 
Dawo  opened,  285 

Denominational  districts  arranged,  209 
Deputy  Director  in  China  appointed, 

171 
Desgraz  (Miss)  (Mrs.  Tomalin) — 

sails  for  China,  38 

goes  to  Yangchow,  55 

settles  in  Chinkiang,  76 
Dick    (Mr.),    appointed    colleague    of 

Dorward,  150 

Dividing  the  Field,  206-212 
Doherty  (Mr.),  294 
Dorward  (Adam) — 

sails  for  China,  125 

the  man  and  his  work,  146-152 

appointed  Superintendent,  171 

his  death,  204,  231 

Douthwaite  (Dr.  A.  W.),  135,  137,  138, 
139,  142,  297,  305 


INDEX 


Dress,  regulation  of  Mission  regarding 

Chinese,  31 
Dreyer  (F.  C.),  his  Bible  School  work, 

295 

Duff  (George  H.),  181,  187 
Duncan  (George) — 

sails  for  China,  38,  50,  51 

in  Yangchow,  57 

rents  premises  in  Tsingkiangpu,  64 

at  Nanking  and  Anking,  75,  76 

leaves  China,  and  dies,  87,  88 
Dyer  (Rev.  Samuel),  16 

his  love  for  China,  98 

a  quotation,  214 

Dyer    (Miss    Maria),    married    to    Mr. 
Taylor,  123 

Early    journeys  of    women,   summary 

of,  132 

East  India  Company,  5 
Easton  (G.  F.)— 
joins  Mission,  104 
goes  to  Kansu,  107,  no 
appointed  Superintendent,  171,  211 
"  Ebenezer  "    and    "  Jehovah    Jireh," 
adopted    as    mottoes    of    C.I.M., 
16 
Edgar  (Huston) — 

describes  journey  to  Batang,  282 
reopens  Tatsienlu,  284 
Edicts,  denunciatory,  244 
Edkins  (Dr.),  14 
Educational    developments    in    China, 

263 

for  C.I.M.  educational  work,  see 
Schools  and  Bible  Training  In 
stitutes 

Edwards  (Dr.  E.  H.),  145,  296 
Elliot  (Dr.),  reopens  medical  work  at 

Paoning,  297 
Elliston    (W.    L.),    commences    school 

work  at  Chefoo,  134 
Emperor  of  China — 
abdication,  244 
death,  322 
Empress    Dowager,   de  facto    ruler   of 

China,  244,  322 
Entwistle,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  escape  from 

Liuanchow,  330 

Evangelization  of  the  World,  The,  publi 
cation  of,  etc.,  1 66 
Evangelization,  the  special  aim  of  the 

Mission,  89-91 
Expansion  during  years  1888-1891,  203 

Facts  about  Finance,  302-313 
Falconer  (Ion  Keith),  145 
Famine  of  1877  and  1878,  109,  123 
Fasting  and  prayer,  institution  of  days 
of,  34 


Faulding  (Miss) — 
sails  for  China,  38 
married  to  Mr.  Taylor,  79 
goes  to  Shansi,  etc.     See  Mrs.  Hudson 

Taylor 
Faussett  (Miss),  starts  for  Hanchungfu, 

127 
Fay  (Miss  Lydia),  first  single  lady  sent 

to  China  from  America,  123 
I    Fenghwa  occupied    by  Mr.   and  Mrs. 

Crombie,  44 

Finance,  31,  36,  37,  39,  42,  47,  51 ;  some 
early  figures,  83-85  ;   in  1874,  92 ; 
in  1878,  119;  in  relation  to  candi 
dates,  120;  timely  gifts,  121,  125; 
for  the  seventy,  158-160;    for  the 
hundred,  174;  in  North  America, 
184, 189  ;  during  Boxer  crisis,  249  ; 
chapter  on,  302-313 
Finnish  Free  Church,  364 
Fish  (Dr.  and  Mrs.)— 

amongst  the  tribes,  278,  298 
first  medical  journey,  330-333 
Fishe  (Charles  T.),  29 
sails  for  China,  67 
acts  as  secretary  in  China,  71 
at  Yangchow,  75 
Fishe  (Edward),  29 
visits  Sienkii,  72 
starts  for  Kweichow,  107 
travels  into  Kweichow,  in 
starts  for  Kwangsi,  death,  111-112 
Fit/simons     (Miss     Cassie),     sails     for 

China,  187 
Fleming     (William    S.),     first     C.I.M. 

martyr,  202,  239 
Foreign  Missionary  Society,  285 
Foreign  works  translated  into  Chinese, 

263 

Fran co- Prussian  War,  69 
Franson  (Rev.  F.),  194 
his  letter,  196 
visits  China,  210 
French  (Miss  E.),  343 
French  (Miss  F.  L.),  343 
Friedenshort  Deaconess  Mission,  364 
Frost  (Henry  W.)— 
meets  Mr.  Taylor,  183 
personal  experiences,  188 
appointed  Secretary  and  Treasurer  ; 
and,  later,  Home  Director,  188,  189 
in  Chefoo,  307 
Froyland  (Dr.),  killed  at  Laohokow,  330 

Gamble  (W.),  entertains  Lammermuir 

party,  40 
Gardiner  (Miss  J.  D.),  sails  for  China, 

187 
Garland    (Miss    S.    J.),    her    Chinese 

Braille  system,  294 


INDEX 


379 


German  China  Alliance  Mission — 
formed,  194 
increase  of  sphere,  211 
short  account  of,  361 
German   Women's   Missionary   Union, 

363 
Gibson  (Miss) — 

appointed  to  Chiichowfu,  177 
settles  at  Hokow,  179 
Girls'  School  work,  beginning  of,  75 
Girls'  School  in  China,  first,  122 
Go  forth    (Rev.   J.),   his   revival   work, 

269 

Goodall  (T.  W.),  224 
Gough  (Rev.  F.-  F.),  of  the  C.M.S.,  22 
Cowman  (C.  G.  and  Mrs.),  278 
Grainger  (A.),  his  Bible  School  work, 

295.  334 
Granville     (Lord),     urges    Mission    to 

abandon  Yangchow,  75 
Gray  (Miss),  accompanies  Mr.  Taylor  in 

Kiangsi,  178 

Green  (Mr.),  Pioneer  American  Presby 
terian  Missionary  in  Hangchow,  42 
Green  (C.  H.  and  Mrs.),  250 
Gregg  (Miss  Jessie),  250 

her  special  evangelistic  missions,  343- 

344 
Guinness  (Dr.  Grattan) — 

Mr.  Taylor  visits  his  theological  class, 

29 

acts  as  Referee  for  Mission,  81 
his  tribute  to  Miss  Blatchley,  94 
Guinness  (Dr.  Whitfield),  297 
Gutzlaff  (Dr.  Karl),  5,  10,  122 

Hall    (William),    appointed   on    Home 

Council,  8 1 

Hall  (J.  C.),  besieged  in  Siningfu,  218 
Hampson  (Mr.  and  Mrs.),  234 
work  amongst  scholars,  334 
Hanchungfu  opened,  no,  127 
Han  En-show,  a  Hunan  official's  con 
verted  son,  233 
Hangchow — 

as  a  centre  of  operations,  30,  42,  43 
Boarding  School  started,  48 
dispensary  work,  48 
Church  membership  in  1868,  53 
Chinese  Missionary  Society  formed, 

88 
Boys'    School    transferred    to    Chin- 

kiang,  88 
Girls'    School    transferred    to    Shao- 

hingfu,  88 

Bible  Training  School,  294 
Hanlin  Library  burned,  246 
Hannington  (Bishop),  145 
Hardman  (M.),  316 
Hart  (Dr.),  217 


Harvey  (T.  P.)— 

sails  for  China,  67 

itinerates  in  North  Kiangsu,  76 

takes  a  medical  course,  88,  141 

goes  to  Bhamo,  106 
Hayward  (J.  N.),  317 
Healing  the  sick,  141-145,  296-298 
Helmer  (F.  F.  and  Mrs.),  appointed  to 

Toronto,  190 

Helmer  (J.  S.  and  Mrs.),  their  ministry 
in  Toronto,  189,  308 

death  of  Mrs.  Helmer,  189 
Henrietta  Bird  Memorial  Hospital,  297 
Hewitt  (Dr.  J.  W.),  250 
Hill  (Rev.  David),  in  Shansi,  109 
Hill  (R.  H.),  appointed  Honorary  Secre 
tary  with  Henry  Soltau,  81 
Hokow,  Mr.  Taylor's  first  visit,  139 
Holden    (Rev.    J.    Stuart),    appointed 

Home  Director,  351 
Holliday  (Miss),  224 
Holmgren  (Mr.),  Secretary  of  Swedish 

Mission  in  China,  194 
Home  Department — 

in  Great  Britain,  79-85,  116-121,  220- 
224,  314 

in  North  America,  183-190 

in  Australasia,  199-205 
Honan — 

commencement    of    itinerant    work, 

131 

first  workers  compelled  to  retire,  132 
Honanfu,  visited  by  Henry  Taylor,  102 
Hongkong,  its  cession  to  England,  6 
Home  (Miss),  travels  with  Mrs.  Taylor 

to  Shansi,  125 
Home  (W.  S.),  181— 

sails  for  China,  187 

forward  movement,  243 

his  Bible  School  work,  295 
Horsburgh  (Rev.  J.  Heywood),  leads  a 

band  of  workers  to  China,  207 
Hoste  (D.  E.)— 

one  of  Cambridge  band,  164 

in  Shansi,    Australia,    and    Honan, 
168,  211 

appointed  Acting  General  Director, 
168-169,  256 

during  Boxer  crisis,  247,  258 

appointed  General  Director,  264 

in  Liebenzell,  363 
Howard  (Theodore) — 

appointed  on  Home  Council,  81 

becomes  Chairman  of  Council,  118 

becomes  Home  Director,  118,  223 

death,  351 

Ho  well  (George),  317 
Hoyte  (Dr.  S.),  297 
Hsi  (Pastor),  108,  167 — 

Mr.  Taylor  visits  his  home,  211 


380 


INDEX 


Hsi  (Mrs.),  343 

Hsieh   (Evangelist),   his  revival  work, 

272 

Hsu  Pao-san  (General),  62 
Hunan — 

ladies  travel  through,  130 

pioneer  work  in,  146-152 

C.I.M.  work  commenced,  146 

walled  cities  of,  152 

riots,  233 

the  opening  of,  230-236 
Hundred — 

prayer  for  the,  172 

an  analysis  of,  175 

Hungtung  Bible  Training  Institute,  295 
Hunnex  (W.  J.),  sails  for  China,  133 
Hunt  (Henry) — 

marries  Miss  Smalley,  131 

sails  for  China,  133 
Hunter,  M.A.  (Rev.  George),  209 

his  work  in  Hunan,  231 

his  death,  233 
Hunter  (G.  W.)— 

begins  work  in  Chinese  Turkestan, 
288 

Dr.  Morrison's  tribute,  290 
Hwangyen  occupied,  66 
Hwochow  opened,  168,  343 

Income.     See  Finance 

Independent  Church  Movement,  325 

Institutional  work,  291-301 

Irvin  (Miss  Grace),  sails  for  China,  187 

lyang  opened,  180 

Jackson  (J.  A.),  sails  for  China,  38  ; 
goes  to  Shaohingfu,  44 ;  robbed  at 
Taichowfu,  49 ;  visits  Wenchow, 
49;  opens  Hwangyen,  66;  itiner 
ates  in  Chekiang,  77 

Jacobsen  (Miss),  231 

James  (F.) — 

joins  Mission,  104 

goes  to  Shansi,  107,  108 

James  (Mrs.),  travels  inland,  126 

Jaochow — 
opened,  243 
Hospital  built,  298 

"  Jehovah  Jireh  "  and  "  Ebenezer," 
adoption  as  mottoes  of  C.I.M.,  16 

Johanson  (Mr.),  at  Tatsienlu,  284 

Johnson  (Mr.),  agent  of  B.  and  F.B.S., 
murdered,  64 

Jones  (John  and  Mrs.),  15,  16,  39 

Journeys,  summary  of  early,  114,  115, 
132 

Judd  (C.  H.  and  Mrs.),  on  their  way 
to  China,  52  ;  take  charge  at  Chin- 
kiang,  75  ;  return  to  China  in  1873, 
89 ;  visits  Hankow  and  Wuchang, 


92  ;  settles  in  Wuchang,  92  ;  enters 
Hunan,  102;  journey  to  Kweichow, 
107,  in  ;  settles  at  Chefoo,  134 
Judd,    Jun.    (C.    H.),    volunteers    for 

Shansi,  243 
Judd  (Dr.  F.  H.),  228 
opens  Jaochow,  243 
joined  by  Dr.  Dansey  Smith,  298 

Kaifeng — 

visited  by  Henry  Taylor,  102 

the  last  capital  opened,  131 

medical  work  commenced,  297 
Kampmann  (F.),  opens  Paoking,  234 
Kan  River,  work  on,  182 
Kanchow  opened,  182 
Kang  Hsi,  death  of,  5 
K'ang  Yu-wei,  244 
Kansu — 

entered,  107 

Mohammedan  Rebellion,  217 
Keller  (Dr.  F.  A.)— 

in  Hunan,  233,  298 

his  Bible  Conferences,  235 
Kelly  (Dr.),  299 

Kerr  (Miss),  wrecked  in  Hunan,  130 
Kian  opened,  182 
Kiaochow  seized  by  Germany,  243 
Kidd   (Miss),   sets  out   for   Kweichow, 

129 
King  (George) — 

joins  Mission,  104 

visits  Shensi,  106 

marries  Miss  Emily  Snow,  126 

death  of  Mrs.  King,  128 
King,  jr.  (Dr.  George),  medical  work 

amongst  Moslems,  298 
King  (W.  Y.  and  Mrs.),  appointed  to 

Philadelphia,  190 
Kingtzekwan  visited,  no 
Kinhwafu — 

premises  rented,  53 

Dr.  Douthwaite  rents  a  house,  137 
Kiukiang  opened,  65 
Kitchen  (Dr.),  letter  re  funds,  308 
Kitchen  (Philip),  appointed  Treasurer 

in  Australia,  201 
Knight    (W.    Percy),    his    Bible    Class 

work,  295 
Kreyer  (Mr.),  Pioneer  American  Baptist 

Missionary  in  Hangchow,  42 
Kublai     Khan,     founder     of     Mongol 

Dynasty,  4 
Kwangchow-wan,   taken  possession  of 

by  France,  243 
Kwangfeng  opened,  180 
Kwangsin  River,  the,  176-182 

first  conference,  180 

first  Christian  Church,  138 
Kweichow  entered,  107,  in 


INDEX 


Kweiki— 

Mr.  Taylor's  first  visit,  139 
baptism  of  first  convert,  178 

Lachlan  (Mrs.),  321.  See  Miss  Macintosh 
Lady  missionaries,  first  to   travel  in 
land,  126 
Lammermuir  Party,  the,  34 

sets  sail,  38 

arrival  at  Shanghai,  39 

crew  subscribe  to  Mission,  42 

more  fully  inaugurates  Mission,  99 
Lanchi,  work  commenced,  71 
Lanchowfu  reached,  no 

premises  secured,  182 
Landale  (R.  J.)— 

first  sails  for  China,  104 

journey  to  Kweichow,  107,  in 

returns  to  China,  143 
Lawrence  (Rev.  A.),  of  C.M.S.,  295 
Lawson  (James),  181 

sails  for  China,  187 
Laymen  as  missionaries,  the  Rev.  Henry 

Venn's  declaration,  24 
Letters  to  China,  cost  of,  in  1854,  12 
Lewis  (Rev.  W.  G.),  of  Bayswater,  23 
Li  (Evangelist),  233 
Liabilities  and  income  in  1874,  92 
Liebenzell  Mission,  211 

takes  over  Changsha,  235 

short  account  of,  362 
Li  Hung-chang  (H.E.) — 

and  the  Chefoo  Convention,  105 

his  influence  in  famine  relief,  124 

ejected  from  Foreign  Office,  244 

memorializes  Empress  Dowager,  245 

signs  protocol,  259 

his  death,  260 
Lin    (Commissioner),    his    burning    of 

opium  chests,  6 
Litang  first  visited,  113 
Littler    (Miss),    settles    at    Changshan, 

179 
Liu  Kuen-yi  (Viceroy),  245 

suppresses  proclamation,  250 
Lockhart  (Dr.)— 

Hudson  Taylor's  introduction  to,  13 

begins  work  at  Macao,  141 
London  Missionary  Society — 

in  Malay   Peninsula,   under  title  of 
Ultra  Gangees  Mission,  5 

at  Chinkiang,  55 

in  Hunan,  232 
Lord  (Mrs.),  of  Ningpo,  38 
Los  Angeles  Bible  House,  295 
Lowis   (R.  H.),  murdered   in    Hunan, 

234 

Lucas  (Miss  E.  M.),  sails  for  China,  187 
Luho  visited,  71 
Lutley  (Albert),  his  revival  work,  269 


Macao  taken  by  Portuguese,  4 
Macartney  (Rev.  H.  B.),  199 
Mackintosh  (Miss) — 

appointed  to  Chiichowfu,  177 

to  Kiangsi,  178 

appointed  to  Yiishan,  179 

See  Mrs.  Lachlan,  321 
Magee  (Bishop),  59 
Mair  (A.),  preaching  tour  in  Anhwei, 

337-340 

Marchbank  (Miss),  180 
Marches  of  the  Mantze,  286 
Marco  Polo,  4 

as  Mandarin,  55 

Margary  (A.  R.),  murder  of,  102 
Markwick  (Mr.),  no 
Martin  (J.  B.),  221 
Martyn  (Henry),  145 
Martyrs  of  China — 

their  number,  246,  250 

their  letters,  251 

names  of,  253,  254 

memorial  services,  258 
Mass    movements    and    revival,    267- 

273 

Mathieson  (J.  E.),  174 
M'Carthy  (Frank),  228 
M'Carthy  (John),  29;  sails  for  China, 
43  ;  roughly  handled  at  Huchowfu, 
49  ;  in  charge  at  Ningpo,  64  ;  takes 
charge  of  Siaoshan,  71 ;  visits 
district  of  Hangchow,  72  ;  goes  to 
Anking,  88,  107  ;  journey  across 
China,  107 ;  appointed  Super 
intendent,  171 ;  his  deputation 
work,  177  ;  superintends  Kwangsin 
river  district,  181 

M'Carthy    (Mrs.    Win.),    sets    out    for 
Kweichow.     See  Broumton,  Mrs., 
129 
M'Carthy    (Wm.    and    Mrs.),    sail    for 

China,  133 

M'Farlane  (Miss),  settles  at  Yiishan,  179 
M'llvaine  (Mr.),  of  American  Presby 
terian  Mission,  124 
M'Kenzie    (Miss    Rebecca),    sails    for 

China,  187 
M'Kie  (G.),  250 

M'Lean  (Miss  J.),  sails  for  China,  38 
M'Lean  (Miss  M.),  sails   for  China,  43 
Meadows  (J.  J.), 

sailed  for  China,  22,  99 ;  death  of 
first  Mrs.  Meadows,  35  ;  in  charge  at 
Ningpo,  43  ;  visits  Shaohingfu,  44  ; 
robbed  at  Taichowfu,  49 ;  rents 
premises  in  Soochow,  54 ;  opens 
Anhwei,  64  ;  first  furlough,  75,  77 ; 
his  long  ministry,  103  ;  appointed 
superintendent,  171 ;  death  of  second 
Mrs.  Meadows,  204;  his  death,  351 


382 


INDEX 


Medburst   (W.   H.),   British  Consul  at 
Shanghai,  58 

Medical  Missions,  in  China,  6 

Medical  work — 
at  Hangchow,  48 
beginnings  of  C.I.M.,  141-145 
continued,  296-299 

Meikle  (John),  181,  187 

Mesny  (General),  in 

Metcalf  (G.  E.),  278 

Miller    (Alexander),    his    Bible    School 
work,  296 

Milne  (Dr.  W.),  2,  5 

Missionary  Band :    a  Record   of  Con 
secration  and  an  Appeal,  166 

Missions  in  China  at  close  of  1874,  95 

Mohammedan  Rebellion  of  1873,  103 
in  Kansu,  217 

Mohammedans,  work  for,  298,  301 

Mongol  Dynasty,  fall  of,  4 

Monro  (Miss  Jeannie),  sails  for  China, 
187 

Monte  Cor  vino  (John  de),  his  transla 
tion  work,  4 

Moody  and  Sankey's  second  Mission  in 
Great  Britain,  163 

Morrison  (Dr.  Robert),  5,  122,  141,  218 

Morrison  (Dr.,  Times   Correspondent), 
290 

Morton  (Rev.  Lockhart),  199 

Mottoes   of  C.I.M.,    "  Ebenezer  "    and 
"  Jehovah  Jireh,"  adopted,  16 

Moule  (Bishop  G.  E.),  42,  207 

Moyes  (Mr.),  at  Tatsienlu,  284 

Muir  (J.  R.)— 
visits  Batang,  285 
his  journeys  in  Tibetan  territory,  286 

Muir    (Mrs.),    first    foreign   woman   to 
visit  Batang,  285 

Miiller  (George),  acts  as  Referee,  81 

Murray  (Miss  C.  K.),  accompanies  Mr. 
•  Taylor  in  Kiangsi,  178 

Murray  (Ebe),  228 

Murray    (Miss    M.),    accompanies    Mr. 
Taylor  in  Kiangsi,  178 

Nanchangfu  Bible  Training  School,  295 
Nanking — 
occupied,  45,  50 
Missionary  position  in  1867  and  1912, 

5i 

Treaty  of,  6 
Viceroy  assassinated,  69 
Napier  (Lord),  misunderstandings  with 

Chinese  Government,  6 
Neale  (F.  H.),  as    Secretary  in    Phil 
adelphia,  190 
Nestorian  Tablet,  4,  no 
Newell  (Miss),  first  single  lady  to  go  to 
the  Far  East,  122 


Newington  Green,  220-224 
Nicol  (Mr.  and  Mrs.)— 

sail  for  China,  38 

occupies  Siaoshan,  47 
Nicoll  (George) — 

joins  Mission,  104 

starts  for  Ichang,  107 

enters  Szechwan,  113 

settles  in  Chungking,  128 

visits  New  Zealand,  201 
Nicholls  (Arthur  G.),  his  work  amongst 

the  tribes,  277 
Nightingale      (Florence),      quotations 

from,  20,  30 

Ninghaihsien,  opened,  53 
Ningpo — 

opened  to  Foreign  Trade,  6 

Hudson  Taylor  settles  in,  15 

base  of  operations,  30 

baptisms  to  end  of  1865,  34 

Mr.  Meadows  in  charge,  43 

first  Girls'  School,  122 
Norris  (Herbert  L.),  his  death,  204 
North  America.     See  America 
Norwegian  Alliance  Mission,  361 
Norwegian  Mission  in  China,  193,  194, 
211,  361 

Oakeshott  (Miss),  321. 
Gates  (William),  221 
Occasional  Paper — 

first  issue,  36 

last  issue,  118 

Official  rank,  demanded  and  obtained 
for  Roman  Catholic  Missionaries, 
243 

Ogden  (Mr.),  visits  Batang,  285 
Olsson  (Emmanuel),  195 
Opium  Trade — 

the  first  war,  6 

British  Government  relinquish,  273 
Organization  and  Expansion,  170-175 
Orphan  schools,  293 
Orphanage  fund,  New  York,  293 
Orr  Ewing  (A.),  258 

accompanies  Mr.  Taylor  to  Shansi, 
167 

as  Superintendent,  181 

Palmerston  (Lord),  15 
P'an  (Evangelist),  238 
Panghai,  work  begun  among  the  Miao, 

238 
Paoning  opened,  206 

Bible  Training  Schools,  295 

medical  work  begun,  297 
Parker  (George) — 

joins  Mission,  104 

goes  to  Kansu,  107,  no,  128 

enters  Sinkiang,  288 


INDEX 


383 


Parker  (Dr.  Peter),  medical  pioneer,  6, 

141 
Parker  (Dr.),  15 

leaves  China,  16 

Parker  (Miss  S.  C.),  sails  for  China,  187 
Parsons  (Rev.  Charles  H.) — 

sails  for  China,  199,  200 

his  Bible  School  work,  295 
Pearse  (E.  S.)— 

joins  Mission,  104 

as  Superintendent,  181 
Pearse  (George),  25 
Pennefather    (Rev.    William),    acts    as 

Referee,  81 
Philadelphia    Mission    Home    secured 

(see  American  Centre),  189 
Pigott  (T.  W.),  133,  316 
Pingyangfu — 

first  visited,  108 

Hospital  opened,  297 
Pioneers — 

journeys  of  early,  108-115 

women,  122-132 

in  Hunan,  146 

Polhill-Turner  (Arthur),  164,  168 
Polhill-Turner  (Cecil)— 

joins  Cambridge  Band,  164 

rioted  at  Sungpan,  168 

settles  at  Siningfu,  283 

opens  Tatsienlu,  284 
Pollard  (Rev.  S.),  his  work  amongst  the 

tribes,  276 
Port  Arthur,  243 

Porteous  (Gladstone  and  Mrs.),  278 
Powell  (Robert  and  Mrs.),  at  Panghai, 

240 
Prayer — 

at  Brighton,  25 

day  of  prayer  and  fasting  appointed, 

34,  35 

Saturday  prayer  meeting,  39,  93 
appeal  for,  100 
for  Seventy,  155 
for  Hundred,  173 
week  of,  273 
day  of,  273,  325 
Also  see  Finances 
Principles   and   Practice   of  the   China 

Inland  Mission,  first  issue,  118 
Printing  Press  presented  to  Mission,  34 
Prisoners     (Chinese),     work    amongst, 

340-341 
Proclamation  by  Governor  of  Shansi 

re  compensation,  258 
Protestant  and   Roman  Catholic  Mis 
sions  contrasted,  28 
Protestant  Episcopal  Mission,  123 
Provincial    and    National    Assemblies, 

their  first  meetings,  322 
Puchowfu,  first  visited,  108 


Pyrland  Road,  116-121 

Racey  (J.  Hamilton),  sails  for  China,  187 
Radcliffe  (Reginald  and  Mrs.),  accom 
pany  Mr.  Taylor  to  America,  184 
Radford  (Mr.),  his  death,  284 
Radstock  (Lord)— 

acts  as  Referee,  81 

a  special  gift,  119 
Ran  die  (Horace),  104,  139 
Reed  (Miss  Mary),  200 
Reid  (Henry)— 

in  Yangchow,  57 

moves  to  Tsingkiangpu,  64,  74,  77 

retires,  88 

Ren  (Evangelist),  232 
Ren  (Pastor),  his  special  ministry,  344- 

345 

Republic,  establishment  of,  324 
Review  of    first    six  or    seven    years' 

work,  77 

Revolution,  break  out  of,  322 
Rhodes  (F.  H.),  his  literary  work,  301 
Ricci  (Matteo),  4    . 
Richard  (Dr.  Timothy),  109 

his  work  for  orphans,  124,  126 
Ridley  (H.  F.),  129,  218 
Riots  in  China,  56,  216-219,  283 
Ririe  (Mrs.),  217 
Roman  Catholic  Missionaries — 
their  entry  into  China,  4 
a  period  of  persecution,  5 
Protestant  Missions  contrasted,  28 
Chinese  superstitions,  regarding,  68 
killed  in  Hunan,  233 
official  rank  demanded,  243 
Rose  (Miss),  sails  for  China,  38 
Rough  (Mr.),  181 

Rudland  (W.  D.),  sails  for  China,  38 ; 
goes  to  Shaohingfu,  44;  visits 
Duncan,  51  ;  goes  to  Yangchow, 
55  ;  takes  charge  of  Taichowfu,  72  ; 
visits  Taiping,  72 ;  death  of  Mrs. 
Rudland,  93  ;  his  literary  work, 
301 ;  his  death,  351 
Runingfu,  Henry  Hunt's  residence 

there,  131 
Russo-Japanese  War,  264 

St.  Chrischona  Pilgrim  Mission,  365 
Sanaa     (Rev.     O.     N.),     wounded     at 

Laohokow,  330 
Saratsi,   Foundling  Home  established, 

293 

Satow  (Sir  Ernest),  74 
Saunders  (A.  R.),  62,  324 
Scandinavian    Alliance    Mission,     195, 

210,  270,  360 
Schall  (J.  Adam  von),  5 
Schmidt  (Mr.),  occupies  Soochow,  54 


384 


INDEX 


Schofield  (Dr.  Harold),  142,  143,  144 
School  work — 

beginning  of  Chefoo  School,  135 

beginning  of  school  work  generally, 
292 

See  also  Bible  Training  Institutes 
Scottish  Auxiliary  Council,  formed,  221 
Scripture  circulation,  in  year  1872,  89 
Scriptures,   translation  into  Miao  lan 
guage,  279 

Selkirk  (Thomas),  202 
Sell  (J.  R.)f  38 

dies  of  smallpox,  46 
Seventy    additional    workers,    Prayer 

and  Appeal  for,  156 
Seventy,  the  last  party  of  the,  177 
Shackleton  (Dr.),  297 
Shanghai — 

opened  to  foreign  trade,  6 

opened   as   Mission's   chief   business 
centre,  89,  316 

Mission  premises,  196-198 
Shansi — 

entered,  107,  108,  109 

the  famine,  109 

first  two  stations,  143 

martyrs  in,  249 
Sharp  (William),  352 
Shaohingfu — 

occupied  by   Mr.    and   Mrs.    J.    W. 
Stevenson,  44 

first  converts  baptized,  53 
Shekichen,  troubles  at,  329-330 
Shelton  (Dr.),  visits  Batang,  285 
Shensi— 

entered,  106 

early  work  there,  109,  no 

entered  by  lady  workers,  126 

every  city  visited,  154 
Sheoyang  Mission,  145 
Siaoshan  occupied,  47 
Siberian  railway  opened,  263 
Sienkii,  visited,  72 
Sinchanghsien,  occupied,  71 
Sladen    (Major),    through   Burma   into 

China,  153 

Sloan  (W.  B.),  223,  363 
Smith  (Dr.  and  Mrs.  Dansey),  298 
Smith  (Stanley),  164,  168 
Snow  (Miss  Emily),  married  to  George 

King,  126 

Society  for  promoting  Female  Educa 
tion  in  China,  India,  and  the 
East,  122 

Soldiers,  work  amongst,  62,  324 
Soltau  (George),  81,  200 
Soltau  (Miss  H.  E.),  221,  363 
Soltau  (Henry),  81 

settles  in  Bhamo,  103,  104 

crosses  China  from  west  to  east,  153 


Soltau  (William),  assists  in  work,  117 
Somerset  (Duke  of),  59 
Soochow — 

occupied,  54 

relinquished,  54 

Sorensen  (Mr.),  goes  to  Tatsienlu,  284 
Souter  (Mr.),  181,  187 
Southey  (John) — 

sails  for  China,  201,  202 

appointed       Home      Director       for 

Australasia,  203 
Soutter  (Mr.),  his  grave,  284 
Speer  (Dr.  Robert),  252 
Stark  (James),  320 
Statistics — 

of  Roman  Catholic  and  Protestant 
Missions  in  1866,  28 

Missions  in  China  at  close  of  1874,  95 

of  the  C.I.M.,  372-73 
Stevens     (Rev.     Edwin),     arrival     in 

China,  6 
Stevenson  (J.  W.  and  Mrs.) — 

sail  for  China,  29 

occupy  Shaohingfu,  44 

he  opens  Chenghsien,  66 

takes  charge  in  Ningpo,  88 

settles  in  Bhamo,  103 

crosses  China  from  west  to  east,  153 

in  Shansi,  167 

appointed  Deputy- Director  in  China, 
171 

referred  to,  247,  352 
Stock  (Dr.  Eugene) — 

reference  to  Yangchow  Riot,  59 

re  Cambridge  Band,  165,  208 
Stott  (George) — 

sails  for  China,  29 

settled  at  Kongpu,  44 

goes  to  Taichowfu  and  Wenchow,  49 

his  marriage,  50 

his  death,  204,  304 
Stott   (Mrs.),   as  Miss  Ciggie,  sails  for 

China,  67 

Studd  (C.  T.),  164,  168 
Summary — 

of  early  journeys,  114,  115 

of  early  journeys  of  women,  132 
Sung  (Mr.),  ordained  Pastor  of  Ping- 

yangfu  Church,  167 
Superintendents  appointed,  170 
Superstitious  fears  of  Chinese,  56,  68 
Swedish  Alliance  Mission,  211,  271,  360 
Swedish  Holiness  Union,  211,  271,  359 
Swedish  Mission  in  China,  193-194,  210, 

357 
Szechwan — 

entered,  107 

C.M.S.  work,  207 

Diocesan  Theological  College,  295 

division  (Ecclesiastical)  of,  207 


INDEX 


385 


Taichowfu — 

visited,  49 

Mr.  Rudland  takes  charge,  72 

its  first  out-stations,  87 

medical  work,  298 
Taiping  visited,  72 
Taiping  Rebellion,  13,  42,  136 
Taiyang,  first  visited,  138 
Taiyuanfu — 

first  visited,  108 

Dr.  Schofield's  work,  143 
Takutang,  139 
Talifu— 

occupied  by  George  and  Mrs.  Clarke, 

131 

medical  work,  298 
Tatsienlu — 

first  visited,  113 

opened,  284 
Taylor    (Miss     Annie),    enters    Lhasa 

territory,  284 
Taylor  (Ernest),  243,  258 
Taylor   (Henry),   sails  for    China,   89 ; 

first  journey  in  Honan,  102 
Taylor  (Herbert),  167 
Taylor  (Dr.  Howard) — 

to  America,  184 

to  the  Continent,  194 

attends  Yuan  Shih-kai's  mother,  298 

with  Mrs.  Taylor,  accompanies    Mr. 
Hudson  Taylor  inland,  210 

Mrs.  Howard  Taylor's  literary  work, 

301 

Taylor  (James  Hudson),  missionary 
argument,  5 ;  his  birth,  8 ;  his 
conversion,  8;  his  call,  9-11;  sails 
for  China,  1 1 ;  arrives  in  China, 
12 ;  introduction  to  Dr.  Lockhart, 
13;  first  missionary  journey,  14; 
adopts  Chinese  dress,  14 ;  with 
Rev.  William  Burns,  14;  medical 
instruments  destroyed,  15 ;  at 
Ningpo,  15  ;  leaves  Chinese  Evan 
gelization  Society,  16;  marries 
Miss  Maria  Dyer,  16;  his  first 
appeal,  17;  first  furlough,  17;  re 
vision  work,  22 ;  his  preparation, 
23 ;  prepares  pamphlet,  23 ;  at 
Brighton,  25 ;  at  Perth,  etc.,  29 ; 
re  funds,  31 ;  Chinese  dress,  31 ; 
returns  to  China,  38 ;  death  of 
Gracie,  46;  visits  Soochow,  54; 
goes  to  Chinkiang,  54;  to  Yang- 
chow,  55 ;  death  of  Mrs.  Taylor, 
70 ;  second  visit  to  England,  77 ; 
marries  Miss  Faulding,  79 ;  retire 
ment  of  Mr.  Berger,  81 ;  return  to 
China  in  1872,  82  ;  the  missionary 
spirit,  82-83 ;  visits  Hankow,  92 ; 
injures  spine,  100 ;  appeal  for 


eighteen,  101 ;  sails  with  party  of 
ladies  in  September  1876,  105 ; 
Mrs.  Taylor  goes  to  Shansi,  125  ; 
holds  meetings  on  Continent,  133  ; 
visits  Chefoo,  133;  visits  Chekiang, 
139;  visits  Kwangsin  River,  139; 
his  medical  work,  141 ;  visits 
Shansi,  167  ;  visits  nine  provinces, 
171 ;  second  journey  down  Kwang 
sin  river,  178  ;  visits  North 
America,  184  ;  visits  the  Continent, 
194 ;  visits  Australia,  201  ;  long 
inland  journey,  210  ;  visits  home 
of  Pastor  Hsi,  211  ;  dies  in  Hunan, 
236,  265 ;  various,  247,  256 ;  re 
compensation,  257 

Taylor  (William),  181 

Thompson  (D.  and  Mrs.),  in  charge  of 
Chiichowfu,  177 

Thompson   (H.   G.),   marries  Miss  Dr. 
D.  M.  Watney,  298 

Thor  (A.  E.),  181 

Thousand — 

appeal  for  the,  193 
the  answer,  219 

Tibet,  first  visited,  113 

Tibetans,  work  amongst,  282-287 

Tientsin — 

Treaty  of,  15,  28 

massacre,  68 

foreign  concessions,  263 

Times,  The,  anti-missionary  article  in 
1868,  59 

Tjader  (C.  H.),  258 

Todd   (James   H.),   Secretary  in   Mel 
bourne,  203 

To  Every  Creature,  Mr.  Taylor's  leaflet, 
192 

Tomalin  (Edward),  226 

Training  Institutions  appointed,  172 

Treasurer's  Department,  Shanghai,  316- 

319 
Treaty  of  Nanking,  6 

of  Tientsin,  15,  28 
Trench  (Mr.),  to  Kweichow,  130 
Tribes,  among  the,  237-241 
Tsechow,  first  visited,  108 
Tseng  Kwo-chuan  (H.E.),  his  influence, 

124 

Tsinchowfu,  premises  rented,  in 
Tsingkiangpu,  occupied,  64 
Tsingkihsien,  first  visited,  113 
Tuan  Fang  (H.E.),  245-248 
Tung  (Farmer),  138 
Turner  (Miss  E.),  sails  for  China,  82 
Turner  (Miss  Hattie),  sails  for  China,  187 
Turner  (J.  J.)— 

joins  Mission,  104 

goes  to  Shansi,  107 

his  work  for  orphans,  124 

2  C 


386 


INDEX 


Urumchi,    Mr.    Hunter    settles    there, 

288 

Vale  (J.),  his  literary  work,  301 

Valignani,  his  celebrated  utterance,  4 

Vatne  (Mr.),  martyred,  323 

Venn  (Rev.  Henry),  Secretary  of  C.M.S., 

24 

on  Annual  Reports,  80 
quotation  from  Life  of,  164 

Verbiest,  5 

Wade  (Sir  Thomas),  102 

Wang  Chi-t'ai  (Evangelist),  269 

Wang  (Evangelist),  283 

Wang  Lae-djun,  48,  71,  72,  88,  137 

Warren  (Consul-General),  248 

Warren  (W.  H.),  his  Bible  School  work, 

294 

Waters  (Curtis),  240,  279 
Watney  (Miss  Dr.  D.  M.),  298 
Watney  (Miss  Dr.  L.  E.),  298 
Way  (Miss),  250 
Weatherley     (Joseph),     appointed    on 

Home  Council,  81 
Webb  (Mr.  and  Mrs.),  237,  239 
Webb  (Miss),  178 
Weihaiwei,  243 
Wenchow — 

occupied,  49 

a  typical  Sunday  in,  1873,  86 
Wesleyan  Missionary  Society,  109,  146 
White  Wolf,  his  depredations,  323,  329 
Whiting  (Rev.  A.),  109 
Whitridge  (C.  T.),    Secretary    at    Mel 
bourne,  202 

Wilder  (Robert  P.),  at  Niagara,  184 
Williams  (Dr.  S.  Wells),  5 
Williams  (R.),  at  Panghai,  240 
Williamson  (J.)— 

sails  for  China,  38 

goes  to  Siaoshan,  48 

Huchowfu,  48 

in  Kiangsu,  63 

to  Anhwei,  64 

Pastor  of  Fenghwa,  71 
Williamson  (Miss),  224 
Wilson  (Dr.  Millar),  opens  hospital  at 

Pingyangfu,  297 
Wilson  (Dr.  William)— 

joins  the  Mission,  145 

use  of  native  material,  296 

among  students,  299 


Wilson  (Miss),  starts  for  Hanchungfu, 

127 

Windsor    (T.),    with    Mr.   Adam,   re 
covers  Fleming's  body,  240 
rents  premises  at  Anshunfu,  274 
I    Women's  work — 
beginning  of,  75 
pioneers,  122-132 
number  of  women  workers  in  China 

in  1866,  123 

first  missionary  ladies  to  travel  in 
land,  126 
first  ladies  to  settle  in  Szechwan  and 

Kweichow,  129 
some  privations,  129 
ladies  travel  through  Hunan,  130 
summary  of  early  journeys  of  women, 

132 

in  Kwangsin  river  district,  178 
Bible  School  at  Hwochow,  343 
Wood  (F.  M.),  221,  223 
Wuchang,  premises  rented,  92,  100 
Wylie  (Rev.  J.),  murdered,  216 

Xavier  (Francis),  4 

Yachow,  first  visited,  113 
Yangchow — 

premises  rented,  55 

Mr.  Taylor  visits,  55 

the  riot,  56 
i        contrasts,  62 

riot  threatened,  74 

urged  to  abandon,  75 

Training  Home,  172 
Yangkow,  opened,  180 
Yangtze  Valley  riots,  203 
Yao  (Dr.),  273 
Yao  (Evangelist),  231 
Yennanfu,  first  visited,  no 
Yochow,  house  rented,  102 
Yuan  Shih-kai  (H.E.),  244 

elected  President,  323 

worships  at  Altar  of  Heaven,  326 

welcomes   medical   missionary    dele 
gates,  342 

Yu-Hsien  (H.E.),  246,  249 
Yii  Liang-shih,  a  zealous  convert,  138 
Yung  Lu  (H.E.),  246 
Yunnan,  early  work  there,  112 
Yushan,  first  house  rented,  138 
Yii    Yuh-shan    (Captain),    a    zealous 
Buddhist  converted,  137 


THE    END 


Printed  by  R.  &  R.  CLARK,  LIMITED,  Edinburgh. 


CHINA    INLAND    MISSION. 


ENGLAND  . 
SCOTLAND  . 
SWITZERLAND 


HOME   CENTRES. 

EUROPE. 

Newington  Green,  Mildmay,  London,  N, 
121  Bath  Street,  Glasgow. 
St.  Chrischona,  near  Basel. 


NORTH    AMERICA. 

CANADA          .         .     507  Church  Street,  Toronto. 

UNITED   STATES     Mission  Home,  235  School  Lane,  Germantown,  Phil 
adelphia,  Pa. 

Offices  and  Book  Room — Germantown,  Philadelphia, 
Pa. 

AUSTRALASIA. 

AUSTRALIA  .        .    267  Collins  Street,  Melbourne. 

Bank    of    New    Zealand    Chambers,    Cr.    George    and 

Wynyard  Streets,  Sydney. 

NEW   ZEALAND  .     Zealandia  Chambers,  Dowling  Street,  Dunedin. 
TASMANIA     .         .     103  Macquarie  Street,  Hobart. 


SWEDEN 
NORWAY 
GERMANY 


FINLAND 


ASSOCIATE   MISSIONS. 

EUROPE. 

.     The  Swedish  Mission  in  China,  Stockholm. 
The  Swedish  Holiness  Union,  Torp,  Kurnta. 
The  Swedish  Alliance  Mission,  Jonkoping. 
.     The  Norwegian  Mission  in  China,  Randsfjord. 

The  Norwegian  Alliance  Mission  (Det  Norske  Missions- 

forbund),  Bernt  Ankers  Gate  4",  Kristiania. 
.     The  German  China  Alliance,  Seifenstrasse  5,  Barmen. 
The  Liebenzell  Mission,  Liebenzell,  Wiirttemberg. 
The    German   Women's   Missionary    Union  (Deutscher 
Frauen   Missions   Bund),    Bibelhaus,    Malche, 
Bei  Freienwalde  a.  O. 
The   Friedenshort   Deaconess   Mission,    MiechowitZ, 

Oberschlesien. 
.     The  Free  Church  Mission,  HantvHrkargatan  i ,  Abo. 


NORTH    AMERICA. 

UNITED    STATES     The    Scandinavian    Alliance    Mission,    2814    McLean 

Ave.,  Chicago,  III. 

The   Swedish  Mission  in  China,    Kingsbury,   Cali  = 
fornia. 


Donations  and  Correspondence  should  be  addressed  to  the 
Secretary  at  any  of  the  above  addresses. 


FOR  ENGLAND  OR  AUSTRALASIA. 

FORM   OF  BEQUEST. 

/  bequeath  to  the  China  Inland  Mission  (Office,   *NEWINGTON 

GREEN,  LONDON,  N.)  the  sum  of. , 

free  of  Legacy  duty ;  and  I  direct  that  this  sum  be  paid  to  the  Treasurer 
for  the  time  being  of  the  said  Mission,  whose  receipt  shall  be  a  sufficient 
discharge  for  the  same. 

*  To  be  altered  according  to  the  country — England,  or  Australasia. 


FOR  NORTH   AMERICA. 

FORM  OF  BEQUEST. 

/  give  and  bequeath  tmto  the  China  Inland  Mission  (see  note) 

the  sum  of. dollars,  to  be  expended 

for  the  appropriate  objects  of  said  Mission  ;  and  I  direct  that  the 
release  of  the  Home  Director  of  said  Mission  shall  be  a  sufficient 
discharge  for  my  executors  in  the  premises. 

FORM   OF  DEVISE. 

/  give  and  devise  unto  the  China  Inland  Mission  (see  note)  all 
that  certain  (here  insert  description  of  property)  with  the  appurtenances 
in  fee  simple,  for  the  use,  benefit  and  behalf  of  said  Mission  forever  ; 
and  I  direct  that  the  release  of  the  Home  Director  of  said  Mission 
shall  be  a  sufficient  discharge  to  my  executors  in  the  premises. 

NOTE. 

In  case  the  will  is  made  out  in  the  United  States,  the  following 
words  need  to  be  inserted  :  "  having  offices  at  Philadelphia,  Pennsyl 
vania."  In  case  the  will  is  made  out  in  Canada,  the  following  words 
need  to  be  inserted  :  "having  offices  at  Toronto,  Ontario." 

TELEGRAPHIC   ADDRESS. 

The  registered  Telegraphic  Address  of  the  China  Inland  Mission 
at  Philadelphia,  Toronto,  Melbourne,  and  at  Shanghai,  Hankow, 
and  Chefoo,  is  —  INLAND.  At  all  other  Mission  Stations  in 
China  where  there  are  Telegraph  Offices,  the  Telegraphic  Address 
is— INLAND  MISSION. 

At  London  the  Registered  Address  for  Foreign  telegrams  is 
LAMMERMUIR,  but  for  Home  telegrams  is  LAMMERMUIR, 
HIBURY  ;  and  at  Glasgow— LAMMERMUIR. 


Publications  of  the  C.I.M. 

Second  Edition. 

HUDSON  TAYLOR  IN  EARLY  YEARS. 

THE  GROWTH  OF  A  SOUL. 

By  DR.  and  MRS.  HOWARD  TAYLOR. 
Cloth  Gilt,  7s.  6d.  post  free. 

A  Presentation  Edition  on  Oxford  India  Paper,  bound  in  green  paste 
grain,  gilt  edges,  round  corners,  and  silk  marker.  10s.  6d.  net. 
Postage  extra. 

PERSONAL  NOTICE. 

"  It  is  a  most  fascinating  book.     The  narrative  is  profoundly  interesting  and  the 
literary  form  admirable.     Above  all,  the  story  will  quicken  the  conscience,  warm  the 
heart,  and  arouse  the  energies  of  the  reader.     God  bless  it  richly  to  thousands.  "- 
EUGENE  STOCK. 


Cheap  Edition.  80,000   Copies  Issued. 

£  PASTOR  HSL  £ 

By  MRS.  HOWARD  TAYLOR. 

A   new  and   exceedingly   cheap   edition,   unabridged,   in    an   attractive 
illustrated  paper  cover.      400  pages  of  letterpress. 

Works  by  the  late  Rev.  J.  Hudson  Taylor,  M.R.C.S. 


post  A  RETROSPECT*  p0't 

free-  NEW  EDITION.  Jree' 

"  It  has  a  peculiar  value  as  a  testimony  to  the  love  and  faithfulness  of  God,  and 
the  joy  of  living  in  close  communication  with  Him."—  The  Christian. 


£    UNION  AND  COMMUNION.    £ 

free.  THOUGHTS  ON  THE  SONG  OF  SOLOMON.  free- 


SEPARATION  AND  SERVICE.   ™- 

THOUGHTS  ON  NUMBERS  VL  AND  VII. 


A  RIBBAND  OF  BLUE*          •* 

AND  OTHER  BIBLE  STUDIES. 


China  Inland  Mission,  Newington  Green,  London,  N.;   Philadelphia, 

l^oronto,  Melbourne,  and  Shanghai. 
MORGAN  6-   SCOTT,  Ld.,    12   Paternoster  Buildings,  London,  E.C. 

3 


LARGE  MAP  OF  CHINA. 

3  ft.  7  in.  by  2  ft.   n  in. 
Mounted  on  Rollers,  or  to  fold  in  Book  Form. 

Showing  all  Telegraph  Stations,  Railways,  Treaty  Ports, 
Protestant  Mission  Stations. 

Revised  Postal  Spelling  employed.     With  complete  Index  to  7000  places. 
21s.  post  free. 


ATLAS  OF  CHINA  &  DEPENDENCIES. 

23  Maps  in  4  Colours.     Full  Opening,   13  in.   by   17^  in. 

Same  Scale  and  Surveys  as  Map  above,  only  Dependencies  smaller. 
1OS.  6d.  net.     11s.  post  free. 

The  Royal  Geographical  Society's  Journal  says:    "To  all  who  are  interested  in 
China  .   .   .   this  Atlas  cannot  fail  to  be  of  the  greatest  value. ' ' 


SMALL  MAP  OF  CHINA. 

Entirely  new  work,  new  spelling,  etc* 
Size  20  in.  by  20  in.     Mounted  on  Linen  to  fold. 

IS.  6d.  net. 


HUDSON  TAYLOR'S  CHOICE 
SAYINGS. 

A  Compilation  from  his  Writings  and  Addresses. 

PREFACE  BY  D.  E.  HOSTE,  GENERAL  DIRECTOR  C.I.M. 

IS.  net.     1S.  3d.  post  free. 

' '  This  book  might  well  serve  as  a  companion  for  devotional  hours  ...   it  is 
adapted  to  all  phases  of  the  Christian  experience." — The  United  Methodist. 


AMONG  THE  TRIBES  IN  SOUTH 
WEST  CHINA. 

BY  SAMUEL  R.   CLARKE. 

(For  Thirty-three  Years  a  Missionary  in  China.) 
3S.   6d.  post  free. 

"  .  .  .  It  is  also  important  from  a  practical  missionary  point  of  view,  and  shows 
how  easy  it  is  by  patience  and  kindness  to  extract  permanent  good  results  out  of  the 
most  unpromising  material,  such  as  these  tribes  present." — E.  H.  PARKER,  '^Asiatic 
Quarterly  Review. 

China  Inland  Mission,  Neivington  Green,  London,  N. ;   Philadelphia, 

Toronto,  Melbourne,  and  Shanghai. 
MORGAN  &•   SCOTT,  Ld.,    12   Paternoster  Buildings,  London,  E.G. 

4 


Books  by  Marshall  Broomhall,  M.A. 

ISLAM  IN  CHINA. 

A  NEGLECTED  PROBLEM. 

Large  Royal  Octavo,  with  24  Full- Page  Art  Illustrations,  with  Rubbings  from 
Ancient  Monuments,  and  Maps,  etc. 

CHEAP    REISSUE,    2S.    6d.    NET. 

PRESS  NOTICE. 

' '  The  subject  is  one  of  deep  and  permanent  interest.  There  is  something  par 
ticularly  fascinating  in  the  story  of  Islam  in  China,  and  the  broad  outlines  of  that 
story  are  well  drawn  in  Mr.  Broomhall's  book." — The  Times. 


Third  Edition  Revised. 

FAITH  AND  FACTS. 

As  illustrated  in  the  History  of  the  China  Inland  Mission. 
IS.  net.     IS.  3d.  post  free. 

PRESS  NOTICE. 

1 '  The  history  of  the  China  Inland  Mission  is  one  of  the  most  striking  evidences  of 
faith  in  God  that  can  be  found  outside  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles.  We  wonder  if  this 
history  of  the  C.  I.  M.  is  not  a  call  to  the  Church  to  go  back  to  first  principles  and  to 
rely  upon  the  power  of  prayer.  We  commend  this  shilling  book  to  the  careful  study 
of  every  Christian." — The  Methodist  Times. 


MARTYRED  MISSIONARIES  OF  THE 

C.I.M. 

Completing  10,000. 

2   Maps.      60  Portraits.      25   Illustrations. 

"It  stands  altogether  apart.     Plain  tales  of  heroism  and  self-sacrifice.  " —  The  Spectator. 
CHEAP    REISSUE    AT    13.    NET. 

A  Few  Copies  Left. 

THE  CHINESE  EMPIRE. 

A  GENERAL  AND  MISSIONARY  SURVEY. 

7S.   6d.   net. 

"  There  is  no  more  compact  source  of  reliable  information  upon  China." — 
Bibliography  of  Uplift  of  China. 


A  Few  Copies  Left. 

PIONEER  WORK  IN  HUNAN. 

IS.  net. 

"  No  story  of  the  Spanish  Main,  or  of  Hawkins,  or  Drake,  or  Frobisher,  is  more 
enthralling." — Life  and  Work. 

China  Inland  Mission,  Newington  Green,  London,  N. ;   Philadelphia, 

Toronto,  Melbourne,  and  Shanghai. 
MORGAN  &*  SCOTT,  Ld.,    12  Paternoster  Buildings,  London,  E.G. 

5 


PORTRAIT  OF  J.  HUDSON  TAYLOR. 

IS.  post  free. 

IN  3  COLOURS  ON  ART  PAPER  MOUNTED  READY  FOR  FRAMING. 


EVERLASTING  PEARL. 

ONE  OF  CHINA'S  WOMEN. 

BY  ANNA  MAGDALENA  JOHANNSEN. 

IS.  6d.  net. 

The  Rev.  J.  STUART  HOLDEN  says: — "Everlasting  Pearl  will  take  high  rank 
among  the  records  of  the  power  of  the  Gospel  in  the  Mission  Field.  It  is  a  fascinat 
ing  story  of  the  redemption  from  heathen  darkness  into  a  life  of  full  and  fruitful 
service  of  one  of  China's  women. " 


CHINA  AND  THE  GOSPEL. 

An  Illustrated  Annual  Report  of  the  China  Inland  Mission. 
1 S.  net,  paper  covers.  1 S.  6d.  net,  stiff  boards. 


"CHINA'S  MILLIONS." 

The  Organ  of  the  CHINA  INLAND  MISSION  is  published  monthly. 
It  may  be  had  direct  from  the  Offices  of  the  Mission  at  any  of  English- 
speaking  Home  Centres,  or  through  the  Publishers. 

The  English  Edition  is  published  by  Messrs.  Morgan  &  Scott,  Ld. 
Price  id.  per  month  ;  is.  6d.  post  free  per  annum. 

The  American  Edition  from  Mission  Offices.      50  cents  per  annum. 

The  Australasian  Edition  from  M.  &  M.  L.  Hutchinson,  Little 
Collins  Street,  Melbourne,  id.  per  month  :  is.  6d.  post  free  per  annum. 


HOME   CENTRES  OF  THE  C.I.M. 

London Newington  Green. 

Philadelphia,  Pa.  .        .  64  W.  Chelten  Avenue. 

Toronto 507  Church  Street. 

Melbourne  .  267  Collins  Street. 


1 


