





IDlSSIOTJ-.by 

J.HUDSON TAYLOR. 
M.R.CS. ERG.S. " 




is^ssjj. -^U^T| 



t865 + 1895 




brmed in 1886, because 01 
spread the knowledge of 
a, and with the definite 
the interior provinces, 
a hundred and fifty 
millions, were without a Protestant Missionary;'' 

Deeply impressed by the spiritual destitution of China, which at that time 
had only ninety-seven Protestant Missionaries among its hundreds of millions 
ot people, Mr. Hudson Taylor was led to form the China Inland Mission. 

CHARACTER. Like the British and American Bible Societies, and the 
Evangelical Alliance, the China Inland Mission is evangelical and interdenomi- 
national. It is also international, having, besides its work in China, its home 
departments, with headquarters in London, England; Dunedin, N.Z.; and 
Melbourne, Australia, as well as in Toronto, Canada. Duly qualified candidates 
for Missionary labour, who are sound in faith, whether ordained or unordained, 
are accepted. 

STAFF. The present staff of the Mission numbers about 650. Of the total 
number 121 are associates. The members of the Mission from North America 
number 85. There are also 417 native helpers. These give their whole time to 
Mission work as Pastors, Evangelists, Colporteurs, Bible-women, etc.; of these 
about 45 are supported by funds from North America, and 108 of the total num- 
|ber are not supported by the Mission. 

SUPPORT. The Missionaries and Native Helpers are supported, and the 
|ents and other expenses of Mission premises, Schools, etc., are met by contri- 
butions sent to the offices of the Mission, without personal solicitation, by those 
who wish to aid in this effort to spread the knowledge of the Gospel throughout 
China. The income for 1894 was 163,148.13 from all sources -North America, 
Great Britain, Continent of Europe, Australasia, China, etc. 

PROGRESS. Stations have been opened in ten out of t/ic eleven provinces 
which were previously without Protestant Missionaries; from one of these, 
however, the Missionaries had to retire, but they have done much itinerant 
work from over the border. The eleventh province has been visited several 
times, and it is hoped that in it permanent work may soon be begun. 

Over 122 stations and 126 out-stations are now open, in all of which there 
are either Missionaries or resident native labourers. Over 7,000 converts have 
been baptized; deaths, removals and discipline leave over 4,700 now in fellow- 
ship as members of 134 organized churches. The number of baptisms reported 
in the Mission during 1895 was 770. 

CHINA'S PRESENT NEED. China, at the present time, taken as a 
|whole, has only one male Missionary to about half a million of its people; while 
of its interior provinces have a still smaller supply. "Pray ye, therefoie, 
.Lord of the harvest, that He will send forth labourers." 

^CORRESPONDENCE will be welcomed from any who desire to serve the 
kin China in connection with the Mission. Letters should be addressed to 
ajme Director. Mr. H. YV. Frost, (1^2 Church Street, Toronto, Canada. 



BETHANY 

UNION 

CHURCH 

SCHOOL 

LIBRARY 




Books may be re 
tained two weeks am 
be once renewed fo 
the same period. 

A fine of thre< 
cents a day shall b< 
paid on each bool 
which is not returnee 
according to the a 
bove rule, and nc 
other book shall b< 
delivered to the part] 
incurring the fine un 
til it is paid. 




CII 
OL 
LKY 



ay be re- 
eeks and 
?wed for 
riod. 

of three 

shall be 

:h book 

returned 

) the a- 

and no 

shall be 

the party 

; fine un- 



nVLAND MISSION. 



' S JH A 



N - S 



K W] E I - C H A 



G - S 1 



M I M A 



SHOWING THE STATIONS 

OF THL 

CHINA 



IOO i.cmgiTTude jiast. of Gr 




Proti 



tajit. 2fi.,sfr^rL .ttaaari.? of ali s&detL&s TJ-L Cfan-a, -tipta Jusi* 'J86G 
u !nlaj^aL M-i.-.tfum. SttniLcm^s f.'rtcLb'bLsh.ecl. t'efcceutuy Niruypo ^ur 



svt.ce .Juj-vf, 1866 are rumed- T>! red. 




ff.nai' 



B S=ro I BUNA!-. 



S tl A 



S tl/ E N 



II I' ^ 



N A IS 



K Ml K I - c 11 A V 



i G - S 



W ^ M A 

SHOWING THE STATIONS 
0" THC 

CHINA LNLAND MISSlOiN 




K IV AN G - T oi N G 

^ S" "-77i ^.-N ' 




r 



Pecades 



of t}<2 



BY 



J. HUDSON TAYLOR, M.R.C.S., F.R.G.S. 
\\ 



COLORED MAT OF CHINA, SHOU'INC STATIONS OF 
THE MISSION. 



TORONTO, CANADA: 

THE CHINA INLAND MISSION, 
632 CHURCH STREET. 



' Antiquity ar^d Civilization of th\e 

Erqpire. 




| HIS EMPIRE, in its antiquity, stands the sole remaining 
relic of the hoary ages of the past and of patriarchal 
times. For forty centuries it has enjoyed many of the 
fruits of a certain measure of civilization and of literary 
attainment. Our own antiquities sink into insignificance in 
comparison. . . . While the inhabitants of our now highly- 
favored island were wandering about painted savages, the 
Chinese were a settled people, living under the same form of 
constitutional government as they at present possess. Or, to go 
back to times long antecedent to the history of our own country 
. . when Moses, learned in all the wisdom of the 
Egyptians, led the people of Israel from the house of bondage 
to the Promised Land, Chinese laws and literature are probably 
not inferior to, while their religious views were far in advance 
of, those of Egypt, the worship of graven images not having 
been introduced into China until some centuries after this 
period. Upwards of two hundred years before the call of 
Abraham, certain astronomical observations were recorded by 
Chinese historians, which have been verified by astronomers of 
our own times. . . . Since that time Egypt has risen to the 
zenith of its glory, has faded and become "the basest of the 
kingdoms." Since that time the once famous empires of 
Assyria, Babylonia, Persia, Greece, and Rome have waxed and 
waned, and passed away ; but China still remains, the only 
monument of ages long bygone. For four thousand years this 
empire has been preserved by the power of GOD, and it shall 
yet be preserved until His Word, delivered more than twenty- 
five centuries ago by the mouth of His servant Isaiah, shall be 
fulfilled to the last jot and tittle: "I will make all My mountains 
a way, and My highways shall be exalted. Behold, these shall 
come from far : and, lo, these from the north and from the 
west ; and these from the land of Sinim (China)." From 
China's Spiritual Needs and Qlfiims. 



CONTENTS 



PART I. 

PAGE 
CHAP. 

I. INCEPTION AND DISTINCTIVE FEATURES i 

II. ESTABLISHMENT : THE FIRST DECADE . . . 6- 

III. EXTENSION : THE SECOND DECADE . . . n 

IV. DEVELOPMENT AND CONSOLIDATION : THE THIRD 

DECADE 21 



PART II. 

THE WORKING PLAN ILLUSTRATED. 

V. CHEH-KIANG: AN EXPOSITION IN DETAIL . . 29 

VI. KIANG-SU 44 

VII. GAN-HWUY 5 1 

VIII. KIANG-SI : A NEW DEPARTURE IN WOMEN'S WORK 54 

IX. HU-PEH 6o 

THE MORE DISTANT PROVINCES. 

X. HO-NAN 62 

XL HU-NAN : CLOSED AGAINST THE GOSPEL . . 64 

XII. KAN-SUH 6 5 

XIII. SHEN-SI 6 ? 

XIV. SHAN-SI 6 9 



%-i CONTENTS 

CHAP. TAGS 

XV. Sl-CH'UEN 72 

XVI. KWEI-CHAU, YUN-NAN, AND K\VANG-SI ... 74 

XVII. KWANG-SI : UNOCCUPIED ...... 77 

PROVINCES OPENED FOR SPECIAL WORK. 

XVIII. SHAN-TUNG AND CHIH-LI 78 

XIX. A STATISTICAL SUMMARY So 

XX. EDUCATIONAL AND MEDICAL WORK ... 82 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



PAGE 

MAP OF CHINA, SHOWING STATIONS OF MISSION . Frontispiece 
PROTESTANT COLLEGIATE SCHOOL, CHEFOO . . Opposite page r 

THE MAIN STREET, BHAMO 4 

A BUSY CHINESE STREET 9 

LAMAS OF THIBET 15 

COVERED BRIDGE IN YUNNAN 19 

MISSION OFFICES AND HOME, LONDON .... 25 
WEST GATE, NING-PO 31 

WONG-Lffi-DJUN 35 

MRS. STOTT'S BOYS' CLASS, WUN-CHAU .... 39 

C.I.M. OFFICES AND HOME, SHANGHAI .... 49 

TEACHER AND NATIVE CHRISTIANS, GAN-K'ING ... 52 

MISSION HOUSE, YUH-SHAN 57 

STREAM FORMING BOUNDARY LINE BETWEEN HU-PEH AND 

HO-NAN 6l 

A FRIENDLY EX-OFFICIAL ON THE SI-GAN PLAIN . . 68 

PASTOR Hsi 69 

WOMEN OF AN ABORIGINAL TRIBE 75 

MAP SHOWING ITINERATIONS IN KIA-TING Fu DISTRICT, 

Second page of Covet 



CHAPTER I 

INCEPTION AND DISTINCTIVE FEATURES 



HE China Inland Mis- 
sion was organized 
under this name in 
1865, and is to some 
extent the continua- 
tion of an earlier work. 
Its founder, the Rev. 
J. Hudson Taylor, was 
sent to China in 1853 
by the Chinese Evan- 
gelization Society, and 
worked for some years 
under its auspices. 
Subsequently he and 
the Rev. John Jones 
(also sent out by the 
C.E.S.) continued to 
work in Ning-po as unconnected missionaries, and 
organized a Church there. Early in 1860, Mr. Taylor 
wrote to a friend in England of the need for further 
help ; and returning home himself, sent out, in 1862, Mr. 
James Meadows (now senior member of the C.I.M.) and 




- ,rS6 . , 4-.* 



k " W= " *V^ i _^__ ^ ^. *- 4 *j j 

x' 1 ^*- ' "~~~ s/jgfe - ^,;5 




CHAPTER I 

INCEPTION AND DISTINCTIVE FEATURES 

HE China Inland Mis- 
sion was organized 
under this name in 
1865, and is to some- 
extent the continua- 
tion of an earlier work. 
Its founder, the Rev. 
J. Hudson Taylor, was 
sent to China in 18--;^ 

u \J 

by the Chinese Evan- 
gelization Society, and 
worked for some years 
under its auspices. 
Subsequently he and 
the Rev. John Jones 
(also sent out by the 
C.MS.) continued to 
work in Ning-po as unconnected missionaries, and 
organized a Church there. Early in 1860, Mr. Taylor 
wrote to a friend in England of the need for further 
help; and returning home himself, sent out, in 1862, Mr. 
James Meadows (no\v senior member of the C.I.M.) and 




2 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

his young wife. Later, several other missionaries were sent 
out, among whom was Mr. Stevenson, now Deputy Director 
of the Mission. A detailed account of the inception and 
formation of the Mission will be found in " The Story of 
the China Inland Mission." 1 

Some of the distinctive features of the Mission are as 
follow : 

I. That it is pan-denominational and international. The 
workers are members of all the leading denominations of 
Christians, and have come out from the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Ireland, from Finland, Sweden, Nor- 
way, Denmark, Germany, and Switzerland ; from the United 
States and Canada ; from four of the Australian Colonies, 
Tasmania and New Zealand. 

II. That the workers have no guaranteed salary, but 
trust in the LORD whom they serve to supply their needs. 

III. That no personal solicitation or collection of funds 
is made or authorized by the Mission, voluntary contribu- 
tions alone being received ; to which may be added, that 
the names of donors are never published, but each one 
receives a dated and numbered receipt by which he can 
trace his own contribution into the list of donations, and 
thence into the annually published accounts. 

IV. That the direction of the work in the field is carried 
on, not by home committees, but by missionary Directors, 
assisted by a council of senior and experienced missionaries, 
who, as superintendents of the work in various provinces, 
help and guide those who have less experience. 

1 "The Story of the C.I. M." can be procured in various countries 
at the offices of the Mission ; or through the publishers, Messrs. 
Morgan & Scott, London, England. 



INCEPTION AND DISTINCTIVE FEATURES 3 

V. That all the operations of the Mission are systematic 
and methodical ; and in accordance with, and integral parts 
of, one general and comprehensive plan for the evangeliza- 
tion of the whole of China ; the aim of the Mission being, 
not to secure in a short time the largest number of con- 
verts for the C.I.M. from a limited area, but to bring about 
in the shortest time the evangelization of the whole Empire, 
regarding it as of secondary importance by whom the 
sheaves may be garnered. Thus in occupying a new pro- 
vince, the first station, if practicable, is opened in the 
capital ; though it is well known that this is the most 
difficult place in the province in which to gather a Church. 
The next step is, if possible, to open stations in the chief 
prefectures, then in subordinate ones ; leaving, as a rule, 
places of less importance to be occupied later on. If the 
staff thus needed were concentrated in a country district, 
a larger number of converts might be expected in a few 
years ; but the influence of these country Christians would 
not be likely to extend beyond the boundary of their own 
villages. By the before-mentioned plan centres are opened 
from which the Gospel may be diffused throughout the 
whole extent of a province. 

DEVELOPMENT. 

In carrying out the plan of the Mission, which includes 
the stages of (i) planting, (2) extending, and (3) developing 
the extended work, much time and labour have necessarily 
been expended in laying the foundations a laborious and 
expensive kind of work, which, while essential to the rear- 
ing of the superstructure, presents no visible results. It 
was necessary to explore China from a missionary point of 



4 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

view ; but while exploring it, widespread evangelistic work 
and col portage was done in nearly all the provinces, and 
also in parts of Manchuria, Mongolia, Sin-kiang, as far west 
as Kuldja, Eastern Thibet, and Upper Burmah. Following 
this up, stations were opened on the plan mentioned above, 
in the twelve capitals of eleven provinces, 1 as well as in 




THE MAIN STREET, BIIAMO, UPPER BURMAH. 
(.Hindoo and Burmese quarter : the Chinese quarter lies behind.) 

subordinate cities. In three other provinces work was be- 
gun, though not in the capitals ; and at the close of the year 
1893, 123 stations in fourteen provinces had resident C.I. M. 

1 Including Su-cliau and Nankin, both in the province of KIANG- 
su. From these cities, and some others, the Mission, after gathering 
a few Christians, retired to occupy more needy places, when mission- 
aries of other Societies commenced work in them. 



INCEPTION AND DISTINCTIVE FEATURES 5 

missionaries in them; 105 out-stations were occupied by 
native helpers ; and many other places were being worked 
by resident native Christians not in the employ of the 
Mission. From these centres the surrounding districts are 
visited as far as circumstances permit. 

The work thus summarized has taken nearly thirty years, 
for the embryo Mission was organized in England in 18 
though the first C.I.M. party (the Lammermidr party) 
only reached Hang-chau about the end of 1 866, and the 
work of the Mission practically commenced with 1867. 
In this review it is only possible to quote from the statistics 
of 1893, which show some of the results of the work of 
twenty-seven years, as the reports of 1894 are not yet 
complete. 

Each of the three decades has its own distinctive feature. 
In the first the Mission struck its roots in China, and 
gained experience by opening and beginning to work 
stations in previously unoccupied districts of nearer pro- 
vinces. The second decade was the one of widespread 
itineration and exploration of the more distant provinces, 
during which the first stations were opened in all the 
unoccupied provinces except one, KwANG-si. 1 The third 
decade, still incomplete, has been marked by development 
and consolidation. Widespread itineration has been ex- 
changed for methodical visitation of smaller districts around 
established centres, in many of which Churches have been 
organized, and in others the fruit is beginning to appear. 

1 But each of the two stations opened in HU-NAN had subsequently 
to be relinquished. 



4 



\l--TER THIRTY YEARS 



view; but while exploring it, widespread evangelistic work 
and col portage was done in nearly all the provinces, and 
also in parts of Manchuria, Mongolia, Sin-kiang, as far west 
as Kuldja, Eastern Thibet, and Upper 15 u mi ah. Following 
this ui) ; stations were opened on the plan mentioned above, 
in the twelve capitals of eleven provinces, 1 as well as in 




THE MAIN STREET, F.IIAMO, UPPER UURMAII. 
(//.'ji.i't'i' ftiitf /'.'.'"/;.. ffuni-icr: i'n: Cki'iti'M quarter lies bdiitul.') 

subordinate cities. In three other provinces work was be- 
gun, though not in the capitals ; and at the close of the year 
i8'.)3, 123 stations in fourteen provinces had resident C.I. M. 

1 Including Su-chau and Nankin, both in the province uf KiAXG- 
SU. From these cities, and some others, the Mission, after gathering 
a few Christians, retired to occupy in >re needy places, when mission- 
aries of other Societies commenced work in them. 



IXCEPTIOX AXD DISTINCTIVE TEATL'RES 5 

missionaries in them; 105 out-stations were occupied by 
native helpers ; and many other places \vere being worked 
by resident native Christians not in the employ of the 
Mission. From these centres the surrounding districts are 
visited as far as circumstances permit. 

The work thus summarized has taken nearly thirty years, 
for the embryo Mission was organized in England in 186^ 
though the first C. I.M. party (the Lainiiicrnniir party) 
only reached Ilang-chau about the end of 1 366, and the 
work of the Mission practically commenced with 1867. 
In this review it is only possible to (mote from the statistics 
of 1893, which sho\v some of the results of the work of 
twenty seven years, as the reports of 1894 are not yet 
complete. 

Each of the three decades has its o\vn distinctive feature. 
In the first the Mission struck its roots in China, and 
gained experience by opening and beginning to work 
stations in previously unoccupied districts of nearer pro- 
vinces. The second decade was the one of widespread 
itineration and exploration of the more distant provinces, 
during which the first stations were opened in all the 
unoccupied provinces except one, Kw,\. \c-.si. 1 The third 
decade, still incomplete, has been marked by development 
and consolidation. Widespread itineration has been ex- 
changed for methodical visitation of smaller districts around 
established centres, in many of which Churches have been 
organized, and in others the fruit is beginning to appear. 

1 ]5ul each of the two stations opened in HU-NAN had subsequently 
to be relinquished. 



CHAPTER II 
ESTABLISHMENT: THE FIRST DECADE 

OT long after the organ- 
ization of the Mission 
in 1865, the first mis- 
sionary party was se- 
lected, and, after a 
short period of train- 
ing, it was determined 
that (D.V.) they should 
sail in the spring of 
the following year. 
As the time drew near, 
and the funds hitherto 
received were only 
adequate to sustain 
the missionaries who 
had gone out pre- 
viously, and to cover 
the current needs at home, a daily prayer-meeting was 
commenced on February 6th, 1866, to pray for from 
^1,500 to ^"2,000, as might be needful, to cover the cost 
of outfits, passages, and other preliminary expenses of the 
work. Up to this time, since the beginning of the year, 




ESTABLISHMENT: THE FIRST DECADE J 

170 8s. $d. had been received in unsolicited contribu- 
tions. On. March i2th, a second period of a month and 
six days, it was found that ^1,974 5^. i\d. had been 
contributed in answer to daily prayer. It is interesting 
to compare with this a third period to April iSth, and to 
see that a further sum of ^529 had been received, showing 
that when the special needs were met, and the special 
prayer for funds ceased, the supply was no longer so 
abundant. 

The Lammennuir party, consisting of seventeen adults 
and four children, sailed from London on May 26th, 1866, 
arid arrived in China, after a voyage of a little more than 
four months, to find that, though inland China was open for 
purposes of travel, it was not so as to residence. 

Efforts to obtain quarters in various cities and towns 
between Shanghai and Hang-chau proving unsuccessful, the 
mission party reached the latter city (in which several 
missions had recently commenced work), and after a day of 
fasting and prayer secured suitable premises for their first 
headquarters, in the month of November. In the mean- 
time, Mr. Stevenson had opened Shao-hing, and Fung-hwa 
likewise had been opened, so that, including Ning-po, the 
end of the year 1866 found the Mission possessed of four 
stations, all in the province of CHEH-KIANG. 

During the following year, 1867, three more stations were 
added in CHEH-KIANG ; and in September Mr. George Dun- 
can opened the first C.I.M. station in KIANG-SU by taking 
up his residence in Nan-kin. Su-chau was occupied in 
March, 1868, and Yang-chau in June of the same year; 
while additional stations were ^being gained in the CHEH- 
KIANG province. 



AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

It was not till January, 1869, that the city of Gan-k'ing, 
the capital of the GAN-HWUY province, was opened ; in that 
province for many years no other Protestant mission com- 
menced work. In December of the same year, work was be- 
gun in Kiu-kiang; from there over 100 of the cities and towns 
of KIANG-SI were subsequently reached by itinerations. 

No other province was entered till the middle of 1874, 
when premises were rented in the city of Wu-ch'ang, the 
capital of the HU-PEH province, with a view to extending 
the work of the Mission to the nine interior provinces, all 
more or less occupied by Romish missionaries, but wholly 
unoccupied by Protestants. In the following year, 1875, 
Mr. Stevenson, accompanied by Mr. H. Soltau, went to 
Bhamo in Upper Burmah, and began work there, a site 
naving been granted him by the King of Burmah. In the 
same year, Mr. Henry Taylor commenced itinerant work in 
the province of HO-NAN, and Mr. Judd paid his first visit to 
the anti-foreign province of HU-NAN. 

By this time the staff of the Mission consisted of sixteen 
married and twenty single missionaries, assisted by seven 
ordained native pastors; thirty-three evangelists; twenty- 
seven colporteurs ; six Bible-women ; and two native school- 
masters. In the province of CHEH-KIANG twelve stations 
and twenty-one out-stations had been opened ; in KIANG-SU 
there were six stations and out-stations, in GAN-HWUY 
eight, and in KIANG-SI two. Thus, including Wu-ch'ang in 
HU-PEH and Bhamo in Burmah, there were upwards of 
fifty places where either native or foreign workers were lo- 
cated. The work had been largely pioneering ; nevertheless 
twenty-eight Churches were already formed, and there were 
inquirers and baptized Christians in several other places. 



ESTABLISHMENT: THE FIRST DECADE 9 

The contributions from the commencement up to May 
25th, 1876, amounted to ^51,918 115. 2d., a sum which 
had covered all the needs and left a small balance of 
general funds \vith which to commence the second decade, 
besides ^3,700 specially contributed for work in new pro- 
vinces, These funds were all received without personal 




A BUSY CHINESE STREET. 

solicitation or collection, but not without much prayer ; 
often the answers came in the most striking manner, and 
always in time. 

One instance of this, which occurred on May 24th, 1875, 
may be given. The Mission had at that time no paid 
helpers in England. Mr. Taylor, who was then at home, 



CHAPTER II 
ESTABLISHMENT: THE FIRST DECADE 

OT long after the organ- 
ization of the Mission 
in 1865, the first mis- 
sionary party was se- 
lected, and, after a 
short period of train- 
ing, it was determined 
that (D.V.) they should 
sail in the spring of 
the following year. 
As the time drew near, 
and the funds hitherto 
received were only 
adequate to sustain 
the missionaries who 
had gone out pre- 
viously, and to cover 
the current needs at home, a daily prayer-meeting was 
commenced on February 6th, 1866, to pray for from 
^1,500 to 2,000, as might be needful, to cover the cost 
of outfits, passages, and other preliminary expenses of the 
work. Up to this time, since the beginning of the year, 




ESTABLISHMENT: THE FIRST DECADE J 

^"170 85. 3^. had been received in unsolicited contribu- 
tions. On March i2th ; a second period of a. month and 
six days, it was found that ^1,974 5-y. n^. had been 
contributed in answer to daily prayer. It is interesting 
to compare with this a third period to April i8th, and to 
see that a further sum of ^529 had been received, showing 
that when the special needs were met, and the special 
prayer for funds ceased, the supply was no longer so 
abundant. 

The Lammermuir party, consisting of seventeen adults 
and four children, sailed from London on May 26th, 1866, 
arid arrived in China, after a voyage of a little more than 
four months, to find that, though inland China was open for 
purposes of travel, it was not so as to residence. 

Efforts to obtain quarters in various cities and towns 
between Shanghai and Hang-chau proving unsuccessful, the 
mission party reached the latter city (in which several 
missions had recently commenced work), and after a day of 
fasting and prayer secured suitable premises for their first 
headquarters, in the month of November. In the mean- 
time, Mr. Stevenson had opened Shao-hing, and Fung-hwa 
likewise had been opened, so that, including Ning-po, the 
end of the year 1866 found the Mission possessed of four 
stations, all in the province of CHEH-KIANG. 

During the following year, 1867, three more stations were 
added in CHEH-KIANG ; and in September Mr. George Dun- 
can opened the first C.I.M. station in KIANG-SU by taking 
up his residence in Nan-kin. Su-chau was occupied in 
March, 1868, and Yang-chau in June of the same year; 
while additional stations were being gained in the CHEH- 
KIANG province. 



b AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

It was not till January, 1869, that the city of Gan-k'ing, 
the capital of the GAN-HWUY province, was opened ; in that 
province for many years no other Protestant mission com- 
menced work. In December of the same year, work was be- 
gun in Kiu-kiang; from there over 100 of the cities and towns 
of KIANG-SI were subsequently reached by itinerations. 

No other province was entered till the middle of 1874, 
when premises were rented in the city of Wu-ch'ang, the 
capital of the HU-PEH province, with a view to extending 
the work of the Mission to the nine interior provinces, all 
more or less occupied by Romish missionaries, but wholly 
unoccupied by Protestants. In the following year, 1875, 
Mr. Stevenson, accompanied by Mr. H. Soltau, went to 
Bhamo in Upper Burmah, and began work there, a site 
naving been granted him by the King of Burmah. In the 
same year, Mr. Henry Taylor commenced itinerant work in 
the province of HO-NAN, and Mr. Judd paid his first visit to 
the anti-foreign province of HU-NAN. 

By this time the staff of the Mission consisted of sixteen 
married and twenty single missionaries, assisted by seven 
ordained native pastors ; thirty-three evangelists ; twenty- 
seven colporteurs ; six Bible-women ; and two native school- 
masters. In the province of CHEH-KIANG twelve stations 
and twenty-one out-stations had been opened ; in KIANG-SU 
there were six stations and out-stations, in GAN-HWUY 
eight, and in KIANG-SI two. Thus, including Wu-ch'ang in 
HU-PEH and Bhamo in Burmah, there were upwards of 
fifty places where either native or foreign workers were lo- 
cated. The work had been largely pioneering ; nevertheless 
twenty-eight Churches were already formed, and there were 
inquirers and baptized Christians in several other places. 



ESTABLISHMENT: THE FIRST DECADE 9 

The contributions from the commencement up to May 
25th, 1876, amounted to ^51,918 us. 2d., a sum which 
had covered all the needs and left a small balance of 
general funds with which to commence the second decade, 
besides .3,700 specially contributed for work in new pro- 
vinces, These funds were all received without personal 




A BUSY CHINESE STREET. 

solicitation or collection, but not without much prayer ; 
often the answers came in the most striking manner, and 
always in time. 

One instance of this, which occurred on May 24th, 1875, 
may be given. The Mission had at that time no paid 
helpers in England. Mr. Taylor, who was then at home, 



10 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

was confined to his bed by an injured spine, and his wife 
was laid aside in the next room. Mr. George King, prepar- 
ing to leave for China, had assisted him with correspond- 
ence till the beginning of May ; and when he was no longer 
able to do so, Mr. Taylor had remarked to a friend, 
" Perhaps the LORD will lessen the correspondence for a 
time, unless He provides unexpected helpers." On the 
morning in question, friends met in Mr. Taylor's bedroom 
for a usual hour of prayer for China, and he remarked, 
"The LORD has lessened our correspondence, but this 
has involved lessened contributions ; we must ask Him to 
remind some of His wealthy stewards of the need of the 
work." Adding up the receipts from May 4th to 24th, and 
finding that they came to 68 6s. 2d., he said, " This is 
nearly ^235 less than our average expenditure in China for 
three weeks. Let us remind the LORD of it ! " This was 
done. That evening the postman brought a letter which 
was found to contain a cheque for ^235 js. gd., to be 
entered " From the sale of plate." Such incidents are not 
uncommon in the history of the C.I.M. 

Before closing the account of this decade, it should be 
mentioned that the Home-work was carried on until 1872, 
without cost to the Mission, by W. T. Berger, Esq., the 
Hon. Director of the Home Department, in conjunction 
with whom Mr. Taylor had first founded the C.I.M. When 
Mr. Berger was no longer able to hold the position, Mr. 
Taylor, being at that time in England, resumed the Home- 
work for some months ; and then formed the London 
Council, an advisory body, who also undertook the manage- 
ment of the Home-work in his absence, and whose valuable 
services are continued to this day. 



CHAPTER III 



EXTENSION: THE SECOND DECADE 

S we have seen, the first 
decade was one of es- 
tablishiuent ; the second 
was one of extension ; 
and, as in all growth, 
the transition was not 
abrupt, but gradual. 
None of the established 
work was neglected, nor 
were funds needed for 
its support withdrawn 
from it in favour of 
newer interests. An 
appeal for prayer had 
been somewhat widely 
circulated that GOD 
would raise up eighteen 
men, of suitable physical and spiritual qualifications, for 
pioneering in the nine then unoccupied provinces. These 
eighteen men were given. The names of two of them, now 
gone to their reward, may be mentioned here : the brave 
Adam Dorward, so well known for his long years of work 
in HU-NAN ; and the not less devoted Dr. Cameron, whose 




12 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

extensive journeys, almost always made on foot, took him 
through seventeen of the eighteen provinces, not to speak 
of his travels in Manchuria, Mongolia, Eastern Thibet, and 
Burmah. As noted above, funds, specially contributed, 
were in hand for work in new provinces ; and towards the 
close of the first decade some preliminary journeys had 
already been taken 

At the commencement of the second decade, however, 
a dark cloud hung over the evangelization of China. 
Augustus Margary had been murdered on the confines 
of Burmah and YUN-NAN, and a British exploring party, 
to which he was attached, was attacked and driven back. 
All attempts at negotiation failed, and the British Ambas- 
sador leaving Pekin, war was imminent. Could prayer 
have failed? In answer to prayer, men were in China 
preparing for pioneering work ; the required funds for 
their enterprise were in hand ; and were they now to be 
foiled ? No ! The very reverse was the case : their way 
was being prepared for them by these very difficulties. 
The Chefoo Convention was signed on September i3th, 
1876, and C.I.M. workers were thus enabled to set out 
at once to visit remote provinces and find the promise 
fulfilled, " I will go before thee, and make the crooked 
places straight." Before the year, already so far spent, 
terminated, SHAN-SI, SHEN-SI, and KAN-SUH were entered, 
and in the following year (1877) SI-CH'UEN and YUN-NAN 
were reached, the capital of KWEI-CHAU Avas occupied, 
and from it KWANG-SI was visited. During this year Mr. 
McCarthy's remarkable walk across China took place ; and 
one of Dr. Cameron's long journeys was commenced, which 
terminated in Bhamo early in 1878. The report, dated 



EXTEA'SION: THE SECOND DECADE 13 

May 26th, 1878, told of the missionary journeys of twenty 
pioneers, and contained a large map 1 , showing the routes 
each had taken, which covered an aggregate of 30,000 
English miles. While speaking of these long journeys it 
may be well to mention here Mr. Stevenson's first journey 
of 425 English miles from Bhamo to Yung-chang Fu in 
YUN-NAN. Several travellers had succeeded in passing 
from China to Burmah, but since the murder of Mr. 
Margary no one had entered China from Burmah. Mr. 
Stevenson left Bhamo on November iSth, 1879, 



reached Yung-chang Fu on December iSth. After about 
a week's stay he returned to Bhamo, arriving on January 
6th, 1880. Encouraged by the friendliness of the people 
and the success of this journey, he set out again, in com- 
pany with Mr. H. Soltau, on November 2 9th, and crossing 
YUN-NAN, reached Ch'ung-k'ing (then the nearest mission 
station to Bhamo) on February 22nd, iSSi. This time 
the travellers made their way to Shanghai, whence Mr. 
Stevenson continued his journey by sea to Singapore and 
Rangoon, then up the Irrawaddy to Bhamo, completing 
a journey of about 7,700 miles in 240 days. 

These journeys were only the beginning of a more 
thorough survey of the unoccupied and less occupied 
parts of China. In many provinces every important city 
and town was visited, and information essential to future 
work was gathered ; while portions of Scripture and Chris- 
tian tracts were widely circulated, and the Gospel was 
preached from the borders of Corea to Li-t'ang and Bat'ang 
in Eastern Thibet, and from KAN-SUH to Hai-nan. 

1 A reduced map giving these routes will be found on p. 266 of the 
second volume of "The Story of the C.I.M." 



14 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

The result of this widespread work was to leave the 
Mission very short-handed. A survey of its needs led the 
senior members of the Mission, on November 25th, iSSi, to 
offer prayer for seventy new workers in the years 1882-3-4, 
and to draw up an appeal for prayer, from which two or 
three paragraphs may be quoted : 

"We plead, then, with the Churches of GOD at home 
to unite with us in fervent, effectual prayer that the LORD 
of the harvest may thrust forth more labourers into His 
harvest in connection with every Protestant missionary 
society on both sides of the Atlantic. 

"A careful survey of the spiritual work to which we 
ourselves are called, as members of the C.I.M., has led 
us to feel the importance of immediate and large reinforce- 
ments ; and many of us are daily pleading with GOD in 
agreed prayer for forty-two additional men and twenty- 
eight additional women, called and sent out by Himself 
to assist us in carrying on and extending the work com- 
mitted to our charge. 

' We ask our brothers and sisters in CHRIST at home to 
join us in praying the LORD of the harvest to thrust out 
this ' other seventy also.' " 

This appeal was signed by seventy-seven members of 
the C.I.M., and called forth both prayer and reinforce- 
ments. It is not possible to say how many joined other 
missions; but in the years 1882-3-4 seventy-six new 
missionaries reached the C.I.M. The proportions, how- 
ever, of men and women given by GOD were not those 
that had been asked for. The LORD of the harvest re- 
versed the proportions, sending only thirty men and more 
than forty women, thus anticipating the remarkable and 



EXTENSION. THE SECOND DECADE 15 

unexpected developments of women's work which will be 
noted further on. 

It need scarcely be said that, together with the prayer 
for the seventy, the necessary funds to send them out were 




LAMAS OF THIBET. 



also asked from GOD. Special prayer was offered for these 
funds in Chefoo on January 3ist or February ist, 1882. 
On February 2nd an anonymous donation of ^3,000 was 
received at the offices of the Mission in Pyrland Road, 



14 AFTER THIRTY YJ-:ARS 

The result of this widespread work was to leave the 
Mission very short-handed. A survey of its needs led the 
senior members of the Mission, on November 251)1, iSSi, to 
offer prayer lor seventy new workers in the years .1882-3-4, 
and to draw up an appeal for prayer, from which two or 
three paragraphs may be quoted: 

" \\"e plead, then, with the Churches of GOD at home 
to unite with us in fervent, effectual prayer that the LORD 
of the harvest may thrust forth more labourers into Mis 
harvest in connection with every Protestant missionary 
society on both sides of the Atlantic. 

"A careful survey of the spiritual work to which we 
ourselves are called, as members of the C. I.M., has led 
us to feel the importance of immediate and large reinforce- 
ments : and many of us are daily pleading with GOD in 
agreed prayer for forty-two additional men and twenty- 
eight additional women, called and sent out by Himself 
to assist us in carrying on and extending the work com- 
mitted to our charge. 

"We ask our brothers and sisters in CHRIST at home to 
join us in praying the LORD of the harvest to thrust out 
this ' other seventy also.'' " 

This appeal was signed by seventy-seven members of 
the C.I.M., and called forth both prayer and reinforce- 
ments. It is not possible to say how many joined other 
missions; but in the years 1882-3-4 seventy-six new 
missionaries reached the C.I.M.. The proportions, how- 
ever, of men and women given by GOD were not those 
that had been asked for. The LORD of the harvest re- 
versed the proportions, sending only thirty men and more 
than forty women, thus anticipating the remarkable and 



. 'i' HE SECO.YD DECADE 



i.' 



o 



unexpected developments of women's work which will he 
noted further on. 

It need scarcely l>u said that, together with the prayer 
for the seventy, the necessary funds to send them out were 




LAMAS OK TIIIIMCT. 



also asked from GOD. Special prayer was offered for these 
funds in Chefoo on January 3ist or February ist, 1882. 
On February 2nd an anonymous donation of ,,3,000 was 
received at the offices of the Mission in Pyrland Road, 



l6 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

London, N., for this very object. It was sent by the 
father of a family, to be acknowledged, with Psalm ii. 8 
(" Ask of ME, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine 
inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy 
possession "), as follows : 

Father ... . "1,000 

Mother ..... 1,000 

Mary ..... 200 

Rosie ..... 200 

Bertie ..... 200 

Amy ..... 200 

Henry ..... 200 



It was most striking to notice how literally and immedi- 
ately GOD had answered united prayer, and led His faithful 
steward to make room for a large blessing for himself and 
his family. On September ist, 1884, the same donor 
sent ;i,ooo for the same fund, to be acknowledged 
(Psalm ii. 8): 

Father ..... .200 

Mother ..... 200 

Mary ..... loo 

Kosie ..... 100 

Bertie ..... 100 

Amy ..... 100 

Henry ..... loo 

Baby ..... 100 

- ,1,000 

A beautiful instance this of a loving father who seeks 
that each member of his family shall have treasure in 
heaven. If there were more of such fathers, would there 
not be fewer unbelieving children ? 

It has been mentioned that seventy-six reached China 
in 1882-3-4. Some others sent from England in Decem- 



EXTENSION: THE SECOND DECADE 1 7 

ber, 1884, arrived later. And not only so : in 1885 forty 
additional missionaries were sent out from England, includ- 
ing the well-known Cambridge band a rich "exceeding 
abundantly" added by GOD to the seventy for whom so 
much prayer had been offered. 

WOMEN'S WORK. 

One of the most noteworthy extensions of the second 
decade, and one fraught with far-reaching issues, was that 
of women's work in the interior of China. In January, 
1876, when Miss Wilson, of Kendal, sailed at her own 
expense for China, there was only one unmarried C.I.M. 
lady in the field : Miss E. Turner, now in HO-NAN. A 
good many others followed Miss Wilson ; and not only 
were stations opened for women's work in the interior of 
the nearer provinces, but within the short space of three 
years, from October, 1878, to December, 1881, women had 
been able to enter and settle in six of the inland provinces, 
besides bringing the Gospel to hundreds of women in 
HO-NAN and HU-NAN, where permanent residence was 
then unattainable. The following summary of this work is 
worth recording : 

In October, 1878, Mrs. Hudson Taylor, accompanied by 
Miss Home and Miss Crickmay, reached T'ai-yuen Fu, the 
capital of SHAN-SI. 

In November, 1879, Mrs. George King arrived at Han- 
chung in SHEN-SI. 

In January, 1880, Mrs. Nicoll settled at Ch'ung-k'ing in 
SI-CH'UEN. 

In February, iSSo, Mrs. George Clarke reached Kwei- 
yang, the capital of KWEI-CHAU ; and Mrs. W. McCarthy 

c 



1 8 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

and Miss Kidd started to cross HU-NAN, on their way to 
join her. 

In January, iSSi, Mrs. George Parker and Miss Wilson 
found a home at Ts'in-chau in KAN-SUH. 

In June, iSSi, Mrs. G. Clarke went from Kwei-yang to 
Ta-li Fu in YUN-NAN. 

In March to June of the same year, 1881, a second memo- 
rable journey was made by ladies across HU-NAN, when 
Mrs. McCarthy returned, as Mrs. Broumton, to Kwei- 
yang, taking Miss Kerr with her. They were wrecked on 
the way, and had to stay a fortnight in one place far in the 
heart of the province Lo-si-p'ing, near Kien-yang Hien 
where they had great encouragement in their work amongst 
the women, and perfect freedom of access to them. 

And in December, iSSi, Mrs. Henry Hunt, a young 
bride, went up to Ru-ning Fu, her husband's station in Ho- 
NAN, and was able to reside there for more than two months, 
having access to women of all classes. Disturbances 
occurred which necessitated her leaving, and it was some 
years ere women's work was again recommenced in that 
province. But a beginning was thus made, and Mrs. Hunt 
was the first to preach the Gospel to the women of Ho- 

NAN. 1 

" Only those who know the difficulties and trials of life 
far in the heart of China and the dangers and hardships of 
long journeys in such a land can fully appreciate all that 
these facts mean ; only those who have experienced con- 
tinued loneliness, isolation, and peril among the heathen, 

1 It may be well to note that previous to the above-mentioned period, 
on May I5th, 1876, Mrs. Harvey reached Bhamo in Upper Burmah, 
the first lady missionary to the Yunnanese women resident there. 



EXTENSION: THE SECOiVD DECADE 




COVERED 
BRIDGE 
IN YUN- 
NAN. 



can know 

.* _ 

what those 

pioneer women endured ; only those who, under such 
circumstances, have faced sickness, far from any medical 
aid, acute suffering, and even death itself, can understand 
what the sacrifice involved that was sealed by the first 
missionary graves in far off SHEN-SI and YUN-NAN." For 
on May loth, 1881, Mrs. George King was called from 
earthly service in Han-chung Fu to her reward, and on 
October yth Mrs. G. W. Clarke fell asleep in Ta-li Fu. 



ORGANIZATION. 

The growth of the work in China led to much thought 
and prayer about the organization of the Mission. " Will- 
ing, skilful" men (i Chron. xxviii. 21) were asked from 
GOD for the various posts required. Superintendent mis- 
sionaries were appointed for various provinces ; the Rev. J. 



1 8 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

and Miss Kick! started to cross HU-XAX, on their way to 
join her. 

In January, iSSt, Mrs. George Parker and Miss Wilson 
found a home at Ts'in-chau in KAX-SUH. 

In June, iSSi, Mrs. G. Clarke went from Kwei-yang to 
Ta-li Fu in YVX-XAX. 

In March to June of the same year, iSSi, a second memo- 
rable journey was made by ladies across HU-XAX, when 
Mrs. McCarthy returned, as Mrs. Broumton, to Kwei- 
yang, taking Miss Kerr with her. They were wrecked on 
the way, and had to stay a fortnight in one place far in the 
heart of the province Lo-si-p'ing, near Kien-yang Hien 
where they had great encouragement in their work amongst 
the women, and perfect freedom of access to them. 

And in December, iSSi, Mrs. Henry Hunt, a young 
bride, went up to Ru-ning Fu, her husband's station in Ho- 
NAX, and was able to reside there for more than two months, 
having access to women of all classes. Disturbances 
occurred which necessitated her leaving, and it was some 
years ere women's work was again recommenced in that 
province. But a beginning was thus made, and Mrs. Hunt 
was the first to preach the Gospel to the women of Ho- 

XAX. 1 

" Only those who know the difficulties and trials of life 
far in the heart of China and the dangers and hardships of 
long journeys in such a land can fully appreciate all that 
these facts mean ; only those who have experienced con- 
tinued loneliness, isolation, and peril among the heathen, 

1 It may be well to note that previous to the above-mentioned period, 
on May I5th, 1876. Mrs. Harvey reached lihamo in Upper Hurmali, 
the first lady missionary to the Yunnanese women resident there. 



EX TENSION : THE SJ-X'OA'JJ DKCADIC 




&J&HK 
- -.. -*.T>*I 







IX YUN- 
NAN. 






c a n k n o w 
what those 

pioneer women endured ; only those who, under such 
circumstances, have faced sickness, far from any medical 
aid, acute suffering, and even death itself, can understand 
what the sacrifice involved that was sealed by the first 
missionary graves in far off SIIKX-SI and YUN-XAX." For 
on May loth, iSSr, Mrs. George King was called from 
earthly service in Han-chung Fu to her reward, and on 
October yth Mrs. G. W. Clarke fell asleep in Ta-li Fu. 



OROAXI/CATIOX. 

The growth of the work in China led to much thought 
and prayer about the organization of the Mission. " Will- 
ing, skilful" men (i Chron. xxviii. 21) were asked from 
GOD for the various posts required. Superintendent mis- 
sionaries were appointed for various provinces the Rev. J. 



2O AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

W. Stevenson was appointed Deputy Director ; and a China 
Council was arranged for, to assist the Directors in China, 
as the Home Council in London had done in home matters 
since 1872. 

In closing the account of the second decade, it will be 
interesting to note the position of the Mission at the be- 
ginning and end of these ten years. 

Instead of 9 unoccupied provinces there were 2. 
52 missionaries 225. 

,,75 native helpers 117. 

,, 52 stations and out-stations,, ,, 106. 
28 Churches 59, 

in which there were 1,655 native communicants in fellow- 
ship. 



CHAPTER IV 



DEVELOPMENT AND CONSOLIDATION: THE THIRD 

DECADE 

AINLY one of de- 
velopment and con- 
solidation has the 
work of this de- 
cade been. No new 
province has been 
entered ; no new 
method of work has 
been introduced, 
but work has been 
subdivided; the 
number of mission 
ary workers has 
been increased ; the 
methodical evangeli- 
zation of districts 
around established 
centres has taken 
the place of the 

widespread evangelization which was the first need, and 
was all that could be undertaken at an earlier stage. 

During this period the work of the Mission, which from 




22 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

the first has been pan-denominational, has become inter- 
national. Very early in its history, individual workers from 
Switzerland and Belgium joined the Mission ; but only 
during the last decade have Councils been formed abroad, 
through whom contingents have reached the Mission, 
and Committees in various countries sent missionaries 
to be associated with the Mission and to work under its 
direction. 

It has already been mentioned that at the close of the 
last decade arrangements were made for the formation of a 
China Council of senior missionaries, who superintend the 
work in various provinces. The first session of this Council 
(now meeting quarterly at Shanghai) took place in Gan- 
k'ing in November, 1886; and one of the most important 
issues of that session was the appeal for a hundred new 
workers for the C.I.M. to come out in the following year. 
Prayer was made for them ; they were accepted by faith ; 
and thanksgiving and praise were offered for the gracious 
gifts GOD was about to send. 

The ;io,ooo necessary to cover the expenses of this 
movement were also asked from GOD, with the particular 
request that this money might be specially given in large 
sums (in order to make the answer more apparent, and also 
to lighten labour in the London office), and in addition to 
the ordinary income of the Mission. The annual volume 
of China's Millions for 1888 contained as its frontispiece 
the photos of the hundred who left England in 1887 ; and 
the report of the annual meeting held in London on May 
29th, 1888, records that the income of the year 1887 had 
been raised from ^22,000 to ^33,700, of which ^"10,000 
had been received in eleven contributions, varying from 



DEVELOPMENT AND CONSOLIDATION 23 

to p 2 o 00 in amount. It was not a little cheering 
to those in China to welcome the successive bands as they 
arrived. Thousands of times had the prayer been sung 
before leaving table after a meal, 

"Oh, send a hundred workers, LORD, 

Those of THY heart and mind and choice, 
To tell THY love both far and wide ; 

So will we praise THEE and rejoice, 
And above the rest this note shall swell : 
' Our JESUS hath done all things well.' " 

And when the whole number was completed, the thanks- 
givings offered in anticipation for those who were coming 
were joyfully exchanged for praise for those who had been 
sent. 

Another far-reaching issue from the first session of the 
China Council was the formation of training homes for 
newly arrived missionaries, the preparation of a series of 
books to aid in the study of the Chinese language, and the 
drawing up of a course of study in six sections, to be 
pursued until satisfactory examinations had been passed in 
each. Gan-k'ing was chosen as a suitable place for the 
Men's Training Home, and the Rev. F. W. Bailer was ap- 
pointed to take charge of it ; the existing accommodation 
being insufficient for the expected arrivals, further premises 
were forthwith erected, and soon were fully occupied. 
Yang-chau in like manner was selected for the Women's 
Training Home ; and Miss M. Murray took charge, addi- 
tional room being provided there also. 

The year 1888 brought with it another new departure. 
Mr. Hudson Taylor having been invited to take part in 
Mr. Moody's Northfield conventions and in the Conference 



24 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

for Bible Study at Niagara-on the-Lake, was led in a re- 
markable way to form an American branch of the work. 
Most unexpectedly, funds \vere given to him for the support 
of American workers. Appeals for a few led to offers from 
many candidates, of whom Mr. Taylor selected fourteen, 
and formed a provisional Council, with hon. secretaries, 
who undertook to deal with the remaining cases. After a 
second visit, in the following year, a permanent Council 
was formed, and a mission home was opened in Toronto. 
At the end of 1893, thirty-nine missionaries were working 
in China in connection with this branch, and a number 
have come out since. 

Providential circumstances, to which limitations of space 
will not allow further reference here, also led to the forma- 
tion of an Australasian branch of the Mission in the year 
1890. The Rev. Charles Parsons had already arrived in 
China, and a Council had been formed in Melbourne when 
Mr. Hudson Taylor and Mr. Montagu Beauchamp were 
able to visit the colonies, and further develop branches in 
Adelaide, Launceston, Tasmania, Sydney, and Brisbane. 
More recently Councils have been formed in New Zealand. 
Up to the end of 1893, the Australasian branches had 
thirty-six missionaries in the field. 

February and March, 1891, witnessed the arrival in 
Shanghai of two parties of Scandinavian workers from 
America. These were the outcome of the zealous and 
successful labours of the Rev. F. Franson, whose efforts had 
already borne good fruit in Sweden and Germany. He had 
been much stimulated by some articles written by Mr. 
Hudson Taylor in 1889, entitled "To Every Creature," 
which appealed for 1,000 evangelists for China in connec- 




MISSION OFFICES AND HOME, LONDON. 
{Prayer Sleeting Room Entrance.) 
25 



26 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

tion with Protestant missions. The appeal of the Con- 
ference of 1890 for 1,000 additional men strengthened his 
desire to see more workers going out without delay ; and 
he despatched the two contingents of thirty-five and fifteen, 
and formed a committee in Chicago to receive and remit 
to China funds from the Churches which had promised to 
support them. They were welcomed with joy, as have been 
those who have followed them, and after suitable training 
have developed into invaluable workers in association with 
the C.I.M. The number of workers of this Mission (the 
Scandinavian China Alliance) at the end of 1893 was 
fifty- eight. 

For completeness it may be well to notice here that the 
first missionaries sent out to work as associates of the 
C.I.M. from other missions were as follows : 

The "Bible Christian Mission" of England in 1885, 
the "Swedish Mission in China" of Stockholm in 1887, 
Norwegian Associates in 1890, the "German Alliance 
Mission" in 1890, the "Swedish Holiness Union" in 1890, 
and the " Free Church of Finland" in 1891. 

At the end of the year 1893, the number of associates in 
connection with these Missions stood as follows : 

BIBLE CHRISTIAN MISSION 10 

SWEDISH MISSION IN CHINA 18 

NORWEGIAN MISSIONS ...... 9 

GERMAN ALLIANCE 7 

SWEDISH HOLINESS UNION 9 

SCANDINAVIAN CHINA ALLIANCE .... 58 

FREE CHURCH OF FINLAND 3 



Total 114 



As is well known, there are many other Scandinavian 



DEVELOPMENT AND CONSOLIDATION 2J 

workers in China. The numbers given include only those 
who work under the direction of the C.I.M. 

The above-mentioned developments have called for im- 
portant extensions of missionary premises. Up to the year 
1889, British candidates had been received and entertained 
by the General Secretary, Mr. Broomhall, and his wife ; but 
as the Mission grew this was no longer possible. In that 
year an auxiliary Council was formed in Scotland, to deal 
in an initial way with the many Scotch candidates who were 
applying ; a Council of ladies was also formed in London, 

"" "& 

with Miss Soltau as Hon. Secretary ; 41 and 41 a, Pyrland 
Road, were taken as a home for lady candidates, to which 
two adjoining houses have since been added. Inglesby 
House, Newington Green, London, N., was acquired by the 
Mission, and opened as a home for male candidates ; and 
mission premises were erected in 1894 on a site behind 
this house. In 1890 the newly erected premises at Shang- 
hai were occupied by the Mission, the whole cost of site, 
building, furnishing, and removing having been supplied 
for this purpose, in answer to prayer, without cost to the 
Mission. In several other ports also the growth of the 
work necessitated new mission premises, and such were 
obtained either by purchase or erection. 

In drawing to a close the sketch of this decade as far as 
it has progressed, comparison with the statistics of the year 
ending December, 1893, shows that during these seven years 
the number of missionaries, of native helpers, of stations and 
out-stations, has more than doubled ; the organized Churches 
have increased from fifty-nine to 134, and the number 
of communicants has nearly trebled. The progress of the 
work in 1894 is full of encouragement, and gives promise 
of greater things in the near future. 



; Who spoke of rest ? There is a rest above. 

No rest on earth for me. On, on to do 
My FATHER'S business. lie who sent me here 

Appointed me my time on earth to bide, 
And set me all my work to do for Him. 

He will supply me His sufficient grace 
Grace to be doing, to be suffering, 

Not to be resting. There is rest above 
Rest in JESUS. JESUS is in heaven ; 

Therefore is rest in heaven ; 
My rest is there." 



PART II 
The Working Plan Illustrated 



CHAPTER V 

CIIEH-KIANG: AN EXPOSITION IN DETAIL 

T has been attempted 
in the preceding pages 
to give a broad view of 
the Mission as a whole. 
Some account of the 
work accomplished in 
the various provinces 
and principal stations 
should now be given. 
To avoid repetition, 
fuller details respecting 
CHEH-KIANG, the first 
province worked, will 
illustrate the practical 
carrying out of the plan 
of the Mission and 
some of the difficulties 
involved, and will allow of a briefer record of the others. 

This province, which contains eleven prefectures, is sub- 
divided by the Chinese Government into four circuits, each 
of which is ruled by a tao-fai\ who resides in the chief 




30 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

prefectural city of his circuit. The prefectures of CHEH- 
KIANG may therefore be arranged as follows : 

HANG-CHAU; NING-PO ; KIU-CHAU; WUN-CHAU; 

KIA-HING ; SHAO-HING ; YEN-CHAU -, CH'U-CHAU ; 

HU-CHAU ; T'AI-CHAU ; KIN-HWA. 

To fully carry out the plan of the Mission, Hang-chau, 
Ning-po, Kiu-chau, and Wun-chau should first be occupied, 
then the subordinate prefectural cities, leaving the Hien 
cities and towns to be taken up later. Local circumstances, 
however, often make strict adherence to this rule impracti- 
cable or undesirable, in which case, without forgetting the 
rule, the practice has to be modified. 

It was so in CHKH-KIANG. As already stated, before the 
Lammermuir party reached China, and the work of the 
Mission proper commenced, Ning-po, Shao-hing, and Fung- 
hwa, a Hien city, were already opened, to which we may 
add that a market town, Ning-kong-gyiao (subsequently 
transferred to the A.B.M.U.), also had a resident missionary. 
The first headquarters of the C.I.M. were in the city of 
Hang-chau. The occupation of Kia-hing being contem- 
plated by an American mission, no C.I.M. effort was made 
in that direction. In Hu-chau the C.I.M. rented premises 
in October, 1867 ; but a riot ensuing, the house had to be 
relinquished ; and only itinerant work was attempted there 
for several years. In 1874, however, a house was rented 
as an out-station, and a promising work was commenced 
in the city by a native helper and his wife. But two 
months or so later ill-disposed people again made trouble ; 
and after a second riot the Mission had to retire. Even- 
tually the A.B.M.U. succeeded in establishing themselves 
there. 



CHEH-KIANG: AN EXPOSITION IN DETAIL 3E 

Of the second trio of prefectures, C.I.M. workers were 
already in Ning-po and Shao-hing, and in July, 1867, T'ai- 
chau was occupied. 

Of the third trio, Kiu-chau was first opened as a station 
by the S. Presbyterian Mission of U.S.A. in 1870, and 
subsequently relinquished by them. It was reopened, but 
only as an out-station, by the C.I.M. in 1872. Owing to 
the distance of Kiu-chau from Hang-chau, the subordinate 
prefectures Kin-hwa and Yen-chau were attempted earlier. 
Yen-chau, the nearer of the two, was visited early in 1867, 
but was found to be very much depopulated through the 
rebellion ; and it was apparently less important than some 
other places : subsequently a hostile anti-foreign feeling 




\ 
\ 



32 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

sprang up, and it is still without a missionary. In Kin-Jiwa 
premises were secured in January, 1868. The landlord was a 
subordinate of the magistrate, who proved to be very hostile, 
and the house was given up to save the landlord from 
suffering. Before a second attempt could be made, a 
missionary of another society, who had some converts about 
ten miles from the city, proposed taking up his abode there, 
and the Mission made no further attempt until 1875, when, 
Kin-lnua being still without a missionary, the C.I.M. work 
was commenced. The same house was rented as on the 
previous occasion, and is still in the occupancy of the 
Mission. 

Wun.-chau was early reached, being occupied in Decem- 
ber, 1867. The remaining prefecture, CKu-chait, was not 
occupied till 1875, and then only as an out-station for a 
number of years. Since 1890 it has had resident mission- 
aries, as lately have some of its Hien cities. 

From the above it will be seen that of the eleven pre- 
fectural cities two are still unoccupied; that two others, 
Ning-po and Hang chau, had resident missionaries before 
C.I.M. workers arrived : of the remaining seven, the C.I.M. 
opened six, and the A.B.M.U. one. 

Leaving for presentation in tabular form such matter as 
can be thus condensed, a few points of interest connected 
with the CHEH-KIANG stations may now be given, in geo- 
graphical order from north to south and from west to 
east. 

i. HANG-CHAU (CAPITAL). 

Work in this station was begun, as we have seen, in 
November, 1866, on the arrival of the first C.I.M. party. 



CHEH-KIANG: AN EXPOSITION IN DETAIL 33 

There was barely time ere the year closed to repair the 
house and prepare a small chapel, a dispensary, a printing- 
office, and a women's class-room. December 3ist was 
given (as ever since throughout the Mission) to fasting and 
prayer. 

In January, 1867, an out-station was opened in Siao-shan, 
but on the 28th of that month Messrs Williamson and 
Nicol were surprised by the entrance of the magistrate in a 
state of intoxication. He had the native helper beaten, and 
ordered the missionaries to leave ; but the interruption only 
proved temporary, and ere the year terminated the first 
converts were baptized. 

In Hang-chau itself the dispensary work began in 
February ; an industrial class for women was commenced in 
May ; a mission tour was taken in June, in which evangel- 
istic work was done in Fu-yang, T'ung-lii, Yen-chau, and 
Lan-k'i, etc. In July a Church was organized in Hang-chau, 
some converts having been gathered, and fourteen members 
were transferred to it from Ning-po. Wong Lce-djiin was 
ordained on July i6th as its pastor, a position which he still 
holds. The printing-press, under Mr. Rudland's super- 
vision, was producing colloquial literature ; and soon the 
work was vigorously established, and became well known 
throughout the city and neighbourhood. As other stations 
were opened, and the staff of workers in Hang-chau de- 
creased, some of these branches had to be relinquished. A 
boarding-school for boys was early opened, and later one 
for girls ; these schools, together with visitation, evangelistic, 
and Church work, became the work of the station, and were 
carried on under the superintendence of Mr. McCarthy. 
Out-stations were opened at Kong-deo, Lan-k'i, and Kiu- 

D 



34 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

chau, to the south, and in Di-p'u, Gan-kih, Kuang-teh-chau, 
and Hwuy-chau, to the north and west. In 1873 Mr. 
McCarthy left the province for GAN-HWUY, and the work 
of the Hang-chau series of stations has ever since (except 
an interval of three years from 1877 to 1880) been entrusted 
to Pastors Wong and Nying, without the help of any resident 
missionary. The out-stations at the end of 1893 were 
Siao-shan Hien, Chu-ki, Tsah-k'i, YLi-hang Hien, Gan-kih 
Hien, Sing-ch'eng Hien, and Ling-gan Hien. Pastor Wong 
is self-supporting ; the native Church supports Pastor Nying 
and four of the five native helpers, besides whom there are 
four unpaid helpers so that a long step has been taken in 
the direction of self-support. 

2. SHAO-HING (Fu). 

This station was opened by Mr. Stevenson in 1866, 
when he had been only six months in China. No other 
missionary residing in the city, he soon became widely 
known ; his dwelling, a small house on a busy street, was in 
the midst of the people, and the Gospel soon began to take 
hold upon them. A little experience led him to dis- 
pense with helpers from another prefecture. A city Church 
was gathered, the first -ten converts being baptized in 1868; 
in July, 1869, he opened the out-station Shing-hien, and in 
June, 1870, Sin-ch'ang. In the former of these stations, the 
conversion of a remarkable man, Mr. Nying, a si'u-/s'ai, or 
B.A., proved a great help. About the beginning of 1873, 
the girls' school commenced at Hang-chau by Miss Faul- 
ding was transferred to Shao-hing, and carried on by Miss 
E. Turner. In that year, Tsong-ko-bu and Sin-ngoen were 
added to the list of out-stations. In April, 1874, the 



CHEH-KIANG: AN EXPOSITION IN DETAIL 



35 




number of con- 
verts baptized 
from the com- 
mence ment 
reached fifty- 
five ; and Mr. 
Stevenson, who 
had to take his 
family to Eng- 
land, handed 
over the work to 
his successor, 
Mr. Meadows. 
The latter has 
remained in 
charge ever 
since. 

3. SIN-CH'ANG 
(HIEN). 

This Hien 
city was for 

many years worked as an out-station from Shao-hing. In 
1888 Mr. J. A. Heal, who had lived for a year or two in 
Shing-hien, removed with his wife to this city, which, 
with its two out-stations, Wong-dsah and Dziang-don, has 
latterly formed a separate mission district. 

4. KIU-CHAU (Ku-CHAtr Fu). 

This city, after being worked by the C.I.M. as an out- 
station from Hang-chau from the year 1872, came under 
the charge of Mr. (now Dr.) Douthwaite in 1875. In 



WONG LCE-DJUN. 



34 Al-'TER THIRTY YJCAh'S 

chau, to the south, and in ])i-p'u, ('an-kih, Kuang-teh-chau, 
mid Ilwuy-chau, to the north and west. In 1873 Mr. 
McCarthy left the province for G.\x-n\vuv, and the work 
of the Ilang-chau series of stations has ever since (except 
an interval of three years from 1877 to 1880) been entrusted 
to Pastors Wong and Nying, without the help of any resident 
missionary. The out-stations at the end of 1893 were 
Siao-shan Hien, Chu-ki, Tsah-k'i, Yii-hang ] lien, (Ian-kih 
Mien. Sing-ch'eng llien, and Ling-gan Mien. Pastor \Vong 
is self-supporting : the native Church supports Pastor Xying 
and four of the five native helpers, besides whom there are 
four unpaid helpers : so that a long step has been taken in 
the direction of self-support. 

2. SIIAO-IIING (Fu). 

This station was opened by Mr. Stevenson in 1866, 
when he had been only six months in China. No other 
missionary residing in the city, he soon became widely 
known ; his dwelling, a small house on a busy street, was in 
the midst of the people, and the (lospcl soon began to take 
hold upon them. A little experience led him to dis- 
pense with helpers from another prefecture. A city Church 
was gathered, the first ten converts being hapti/ed in 1868; 
in July, 1869, he opened the out-station Shing-hien, and in 
June, 1870, Sin-ch'ang. In the former of these stations, the 
conversion of a remarkable man, Mr. Nying, a siit-/sai, or 
I). A., proved a great help. About the beginning of 1873, 
the girls 7 school commenced at Ilang-chau by Miss Faul- 
ding was transferred to Shao-hing, and carried on by Miss 
E. Turner. In that year, Tsong-ko-bu and Sin-ngxen were 
added to the list of out-stations. In April, iSj-j, the 



CHEH-KIANG: AX EXPOSITION IN DETAIL 35 







number of con- 
verts baptized 
from the co ru- 
in e n c e m e n t 
reached fifty- 
five ; and Mr. 
Stevenson, who 
had to take his 
family to Eng- 
land, handed 
over the work to 
his successor, 
Mr. Meadows. 
The latter has 
remained in 
charge ever 
since. 



3. SIX-CII'ANG 

(HlKN). 

This Mien 
city was for 

many years worked as an out-station from Shao-hing. In 
iSSS Mr. J. A. ITeal, who had lived for a year or two in 
Shing-hien, removed with his wife to this city, which, 
with its two out-stations, Wong-dsah and Dziang-don, has 
latterly formed a separate mission district. 

4. KIU-CIIAU (Kt:-ciiAU l-'u). 

This city, after being worked by the C.I.M. as an out- 
station from Hang-chau from the year 1872, came under 
the charge of Mr. (now Dr.) Douthwaite in 1875. In 



WONG I/K-PjC.N". 



36 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

1876 he and Mrs. Douthwaite took up their abode in the 
city, and in December he opened a dispensary for the 
treatment of diseases of the eye, which proved very helpful. 
To the east, Kin-hwa Fu and Lan-k'i Hien were worked as 
out-stations, and in course of time the work spread west- 
ward to Ch'ang-shan Hien and Peh-shi'h-ki.ai, and crossing 
into KIANG-SI, extended to Sin-k'eng and Ta-yang (villages 
belonging to Yuh-shan Hien), to Kuang-feng and Ho-k'eo. 
By December, 1879, sixty-four converts had been baptized, 
including those in Kin hwa. Early in the year 1880, Kin- 
hwa Fu was taken charge of by Mr. Henry Taylor, and a 
few months later failing health compelled Mr. Douthwaite 
to leave the remainder of the work (four small Churches 
and forty-nine communicants) in the charge of Mr. and 
Mrs. Randle, Miss Fanny Boyd undertaking the care of 
Mrs. Douthwaite's girls' school. Latterly the CHEH-KIANG 
and KIANG-SI portions of the work have been separated, and 
the CHEH-KIANG portion has been superintended by Mr. D. 
B. Thompson, who now has under his care the sub-stations 
(5) Kiang-shan (Hien), (6) Ch'ang-shan (Hien), (7) Peh- 
sh'ih-kiai (town), and two out-stations. Space will only per- 
mit of reference to one of the sub-stations. 

6. CH'ANG-SHAN (HIEN). 

This city was opened as an out-station in 1878, and a 
number of men were converted, but no women. A married 
native helper was sent to the station, but his wife could gain 
no access even to the female relations of the Christians. 
Not only so : these bigoted Buddhist women were so 
opposed to the Gospel that they persecuted the men, and 
would not let them pray and read the Scriptures in peace. 



CHEH-KIANG: AN EXPOSITION IN DETAIL 37 

This went so far that the Christians raised a fund and 
secured a house, which they gave to the Mission, and to 
which they resorted for reading and prayer. 

Just at this time, Miss Gibson, needing a week's rest and 
change, went to this station from Kiu-chau, and her short 
visit quite broke down the hostility of the women. A 
month later, in the spring of 1886, Mr. Hudson Taylor, on 
a mission journey, passed through the station with Mr. 
Thompson, and was surprised on Sunday morning to find 
numbers of women and children at the service. After the 
meeting was over, the Christian men stayed behind to beg 
that a lady missionary might be sent to work there. " If," 
said they, " a week's visit has accomplished such a change, 
how much might not be expected if we had a resident lady 
worker ! " The difficulty of sparing a lady for a city of only 
28,000 inhabitants and the expense it would be to fit up 
suitable rooms for her accommodation were pointed out, 
but they urged their suit, undertaking to do their utmost to 
make the house suitable for residence, if only a lady could 
be found. Next morning, at five o'clock, while the mis- 
sionaries were at breakfast, the Christians brought carpenter 
and builder, plans and estimates of proposed alterations, 
with a statement of what they could raise themselves. They 
had already been up some time making these arrangements. 
There was no resisting their entreaties. Lady missionaries 
were sent, and a fruitful work amongst women ensued, which 
extending to Peh-sh'ih-kiai, lady workers were sent to that 
place also. 

8. LAN-K'I (HIEN). 

First visited by Mr. Duncan in 1867, and occasionally 
afterwards, was worked from 1870 to 1880 as an out-station, 



30 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

and then relinquished by the C.I.M. In 1894 Mr. Beck- 
man opened it as a station. 

9. KIN-HWA (Fu). 

This city, an out-station of Kiu-chau from 1875 to 1880, 
had, when Mr. Henry Taylor took charge of it, eighteen 
communicants out of twenty-five who had been baptized. 
With varying success, and ofttimes a good deal of dis- 
couragement, the work has gone on ever since. In July, 

1 886, Mr. Langman, then in charge, baptized the first five 
converts at Yung-k'ang Hien ; this city has since become 
a station with a separate work. The Kin-hwa work, now 
cared for by Mr. and Mrs. F. Dickie, is beginning to look 
brighter, after a long period of depression. 

10. YUNG-K'ANG (HIEN). 

Was worked as an out-station from Kin-hwa from 1882 to 

1887, the first converts being baptized, as mentioned above, 
in 1886. When, somewhat later, it was made a separate 
station, Mr. A. Wright took charge of the work. The Hien 
city to the south, Tsin-yiiin, and another out-station, Hu- 
ch'en, have been vigorously worked ; from these centres, 
Mr. Wright and his native helpers are in the habit of visit- 
ing the villages, accompanied by voluntary workers from 
among the Church members, to the great blessing of the 
volunteers, as well as such widespread sowing of Gospel 
truth as affords promise of larger reaping before long. 

ii. CH'U-CHAU (Fu). 

In 1875 this city was opened as an out-station, but, un- 
friendly feeling having arisen, for several years no progress 



CHEH-KIANG: AN EXPOSITION IN DETAIL 



39 




MRS. STOTT AND HER BOYS' CLASS. 

was made. After a time this was followed by indifference, 
which was almost as trying ; only four converts were bap- 
tized before Mr. and Mrs. A. Langman settled there in 
1890. Their ill-health and furlough have retarded progress, 
but city and out-station work has been sustained, and 
seven additional converts have been baptized. 



12. LUNG-CH'UEN (HIEN). 

Mr. and Mrs. Bender, with their colleagues Messrs. 
Manz, Schmidt, and Klein, belong to the German Alliance 
Mission. They were working in Ch'u-chau as a basis for 
work in the south-western parts of that prefecture. In 



3>S AFT/-:A' THIRTY YEARS 

and then relinquished by the C.I.M. In 1894 Mr. Beck- 
man opened it as a station. 

(). KIX-II\VA (Fu). 

This city, an out-station of Kiu-chau from 1875 to 1880, 
had, when Mr. Henry Taylor took charge of it, eighteen 
communicants out of twenty-five who had been baptized. 
With varying success, and ofttimes a good deal of dis- 

s ~ > O 

couragement, the work has gone on ever since. In July, 

1886, Mr. Langman, then in charge, baptized the first five 
converts at Yung-kYmg Hien : this city has since become 
a station with a separate work. The Kin-hwa work, now 
cared for by Mr. and Mrs. F. Dickie, is beginning to look 
brighter, after a long period of depression. 

10. Yrxr.-K'ANr. (HIKN). 

Was worked as an out-station from Kin-hwa from 1882 to 

1887, the first converts being baptized, as mentioned above, 
in 1886'. When, somewhat later, it was made a separate 
station, Mr. A. Wright took charge of the work. The I lien 
city to the south, Tsin-yiiin, and another out-station, IIu- 
ch'en, have been vigorously worked; from these centres, 
Mr. Wright and his native helpers are in the habit of visit- 
ing the villages, accompanied by voluntary workers from 
among the Church members, to the great blessing of the 
volunteers, as well as such widespread sowing of Gospel 
truth as affords promise of larger reaping before long. 

i r. Cifu-niAU (Fu). 

In 1875 tm ' s C't-T wns opened as an out-station, but, un- 
friendly feeling having arisen, for several years no progress 



CflEH-KIANf; ; AN /-'.V/'OS / TlOX /.V DETAIL 39 




MRS. STOTT AND HER HOYS CLASS. 

was made. After a time this was followed by indifference, 
which was almost as trying ; only four converts were bap- 
ti/cd before Mr. and Mrs. A. Langman settled there in 
1890. Their ill-health and furlough have retarded progress, 
but city and out-station work has been sustained, and 
seven additional converts have been bapti/ed. 



1:2. Lu.\v,-niYi:x (HiK.x). 

Mr. and Mrs. Lender, with their colleagues Messrs. 
Man/, Schmidt, and Klein, belong to the (lennan Alliance 
Mission. They were working in Ch'u-chau as a basis for 
work in the south-western parts of that prefecture. In 



40 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

furtherance of this, Mr. Bender opened Lung-ch'uen Hien 
in 1894. 

13. NING-PO (Fu). 

The work here, commenced by Mr. Hudson Taylor and 
Mr. John Jones in 1857, was carried on by Mr. James 
Meadows from 1862 till the end of the year 1868. All the 
first native helpers of the Mission were drawn from the 
membership of the Ning-po Church, to the great benefit of 
the work generally, but to the serious loss of the Church 
itself. Nearly all the older members have passed away, 
many of them having been aged when baptized. The few 
who remain have been ministered to for some years by an 
unpaid native helper, more recently under the guidance of 
Mr. Warren. 

14. FUNG-HWA (HIEN) AND 15. NING-HAI (HIEN). 

These two stations were originally one district, and were 
for a time part of a prosperous work. After some years of 
great spiritual torpor, there have lately been encouraging 
tokens of revival. Here, too, a large proportion of the 
older members have entered into their rest. 

1 6. TAI-CHAU (Fu). 

Opened in 1867, Mr. Rudland took charge of this 
station in the autumn of 1870, when the converts were 
very few in number. The progress was steady, though not 
very rapid; but in the year 1890 28 were baptized, whereas 
there had been 8 added in 1889. In 1891 49 new mem- 
bers were received, in 1892 141, in 1893 312, bringing 
the total number of converts in fellowship at the end of 



CHEH-KIANG: AN EXPOSITION IN DETAIL 41 

1893 up to 654; those baptized from the commencement 
amounting to Soi. At that date (1893) there were 13 
out-stations and 9 organized Churches ; now the out-stations 
number 18. 

17. WUN-CHAU (Fu) AND 1 8. BlNG-Y/E (P'lNG-YANG 

HlEN). 

Wun-chau is now a free port, and has steam communica- 
tion with Shang-hai; but things were very different in 1867, 
when Mr. Stott first arrived there, after an overland journey 
of eight days from Ning-po, then its nearest treaty port. 
His first home was in a native inn ; but after a short time 
he succeeded in renting a house. As soon as this became 
known, the local constable (ti-pao] beat his gong and col- 
lected a mob, who compelled the landlord to return the 
deposit money and cancel the agreement. 

A little later Mr. Stott rented a small and not very suit- 
able house from a man who wished to leave the city on 
pressing business, and needed funds for the purpose. In- 
stead of waiting, as before, till the house was put in repair, 
Mr. Stott immediately moved in and took possession. 
Again a ti-pao beat his gong, and collected a mob to drive 
the foreigner away. Mr. Stott tried good-humouredly to 
quiet the tumult, sending his servant to one of the local 
officials to ask for protection ; the mob, however, began to 
be rough, and Mr. Stott said to them, "Don't be in a 
hurry : let us talk things over ; what do you want of me ? " 
" Oh ! Mr. Foreigner, we want you to run away." Mr. 
Stott laughingly replied, " Pray talk sensibly ; how can a 
man with one leg run away ? " Pointing them to the stump 
of his amputated limb, he said, " I should like to see any 



42 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

of you run with a leg like this," or words to that effect 
Thereupon the people began to laugh, and the danger was 
over. 

But though residence was secured, it was some time be- 
fore sufficient confidence was gained to enable him to 
gather a boys' school. Steady, plodding work, however, 
succeeded, as it always does. In course of time a Church 
was gathered ; out-stations were opened ; the work was sub- 
divided, and Bing-yoe became a separate station under the 
charge of Mr. Grierson. At the close of 1893, the two 
stations had together 6 out-stations, 8 organized Churches, 
in which 597 converts had been baptized from the com- 
mencement, of whom 413 were then in communion. It is 
interesting to note that, while, including three school- 
teachers, there were 19 paid helpers in these two stations, 
there were also 19 voluntary workers assisting in the work. 



43 











OC^vl CM-n -f^ OJ to 1-1 O VO OO^J G\Oi -t^ O4 to w 






1 1 ^^4 I 11 L 1 1 J I I __ J . 1 1 . . -fc t I 1 . ,._ r . . . 

Cv ^] ^j jr. ^-1 Ix^j L^ fj ^^ V^ F^ ^Q (J ^r^ ^T^ C/J '<_/. ^"^ 
*-* ^ P^ i S^jS"^ "^33 S^ " r^ !~i F 3 ri 






c " p S c ^ * 2 ~ n'-n 


H 




3 P 3 


O 








, 






o 






y 






; 


^^H^l^'l^ll H^I^J? 


Rank. 








: 


oooocooocooococococococococococccoco 

4^ I ^4 CO CT*^>I 4^ On to o~i 4- *O CO to tovo C^Q\ 


Work Begun. 


OJ 


l-H . . 

OJOJOJtOi-i ton |w|MNOnOO 


Out-stations. 


CO 


OJ 4^- On tO OJ M | O\OJ OJ t04^.OOOJtOtOi- 


Missionaries, Associates, 
and their Wives. 


/ 


10 1 | l-H | 1-1 1 W 10 


Ordained Pastors. 


o 5 4* 
EL/ "* 


4^. OJ OCOJ tO tOtOtO OJi-i4^t04iOn 


Assistant Preachers. 


hH tO 

M OJ 

hH 


CT\ 10 On to i-t M 1-1 1 >-! 1-1 OJ 


School Teachers and 
Colporteurs, etc. 


1 1 


M 4^ w 1 n M M 11 10 


Bible-women. 


OJ 
to 


- I II 
vO O *^ n 1 i 1 1 1 4^ 


Unpaid Helpers. 


1 I 

"co 
o 
o 


M to ON to to 
UnOnOn-44^.h3 M4i>-i (OtO IOOJOO 


Communicants in 
Fellowship. 


J 

"co 


tOOJCOwi-Hi-i I-H OJOJ 
"^ O 1-1 O O "*~J *- On 4^ OJ *O 10 OJ On VO 


Baptized from 
Commencement. 


6 


^^^OtOOJtO wOJi-i wtO tO wCNCO 


Organized Churches. 



oo 



H 



in 

H 



O 



H 
> 

a 
r 1 
CD 

*i 
o 
V 

O 

ffi 

M 
X 

h 

> 
^ 

o 



CHAPTER VI 



THE PROVINCE OF KIANG-SU 

HEN the C.I.M. com- 
menced its work in this 
province, Shang-hat was 
the only station in which 
there were any resident 
missionaries. An ex-offi- 
cer of General Gordon's 
ever-victorious army, con- 
verted through GOD'S 
blessing on Mr. Meadows' 
ministry, went with his 
Chinese wife to reside 
in Su-chau. He put on 
~-^'j. native dress, and began 
..=" to do a little missionary 
work there. 

Mr. George Duncan 
was the first C.I.M. mis- 
sionary designated for work in KIANG-SU. Leaving Hang- 
chau in August, 1867, he wrote us from Su-chau of the 
great importance and need of that city, with its half-million 
of inhabitants ; he did not himself remain there, but went 
on to Chin-kiang, and thence to 




THE PROVINCE OF KIANG-SU 45 

1. NAN-KIN (CAP.), 

which he reached on September iSth, 1867. Calling, in 
accordance with consular instructions, on the magistrate, 
he was politely entertained, and told that if the people 
would let him have a house he should be protected in it. 
In the meantime efficient steps were taken to keep the 
people from renting premises or even entertaining him in 
the inns. Difficulties that would have been insurmount- 
able to most men were, however, overcome ; and after 
lodging by night in the Drum tower for a time, he managed 
to secure on October 1510 a six-foot strip of a two-storied 
house, which gave him downstairs a chapel (!) of that width, 
but twelve feet long, and a bedroom of the same dimen- 
sions above, for himself, his colporteur, and his servant ! 
Thirteen months later he obtained a more suitable house, 
in which work was carried on for many years. A small 
Church was gathered there, amid many discouragements. 
Mr. Duncan's health failing, he and his wife sailed for 
England on September soth, 1872. Work was carried on 
with difficulty and several interruptions till 1882, when, 
other missionaries having begun work in Nan-kin, the 
C.I.M. retired, and Mr. Adams left Nan-kin for Wun-chau. 
The premises were let to another mission. 

2. SU-CHAU (CAP.). 

Mr. Rudland and, a little later, Mr. Henry Reid were 
the next to visit Su-chau on their way north. They con- 
firmed Mr. Duncan's report of its importance as a mission 
station ; they also conveyed the solicitations of the ex- 
officer mentioned above that the C.I.M. would open a 
station there. Accordingly Messrs. Meadows and Cordon 



46 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

went to Su-chau in March, 1868; a house was rented and 
occupied by Mr. Cordon ; a small chapel, seating from roo 
to 150, was opened ; and in June a school was commenced. 
Work was continued for over four years, a few were 
baptized, and some village work was carried on. Mrs. 
Cordon's health failing in 1872, Mr. Cordon had to return 
with his family to England. By this time it was evident 
that Su-chau would be efficiently worked by other missions ; 
some of the scholars and converts were therefore taken to 
Hang-chau, etc. Pastor Nying, of Hang-chau, is one of the 
fruits of the Su-chau work, and the station was relinquished 
in favour of more distant and needy places. 

3. CHIN-KIANG (Fu). 

Mr. Hudson Taylor rented premises inside the west gate 
of the city in 1868, and the deeds were signed on June 
24th ; but, through the hostility of the officials, possession 
was not obtained till January, 1869. There were then no 
missionary workers in Chin-kiang, though the L.M.S. had a 
small chapel and a native helper in the suburb. For some 
years C.I.M. work was confined to the city. Then a 
mission-house was built nearer the settlement for work 
among women and children. Ultimately, as other missions 
came to Chin-kiang, the school was removed to Gan-k'ing, 
the native helpers were taken to other stations, the converts 
transferred, and the work closed. The Mission has now, 
on account of the work in Yang-chau and up the Grand 
Canal, a business centre at Chin-kiang ; there is also a dis- 
pensary in the settlement, and a little evangelistic work in 

the city house. 

4. YANG-CHAU (Fu). 

Opened in June, 1868, this station became the scene of a 



THE PROVINCE OF KIANG-SU 47 

serious riot on August 22nd and 23rd, and the missionaries 
had to leave till November iSth, when they were officially 
reinstated. A Church was gathered, but few of the converts 
were natives of Yang-chau, and in after-years most of them 
removed to their more or less distant homes. In iSSi the 
work w r as more promising than it had ever been ; but intelli- 
gence being received that a number of missionary societies 
were about to undertake work in this city, as well as in 
Chin-kiang, the C.I.M. missionaries were removed to Gan- 
k'ing, and the mission premises were let to another mission. 
The Mission in question was, however, prevented from 
working the district, and a year or so later the C.I.M. 
endeavoured to regather the scattered members and resume 
work. Yang-chau has latterly been more used as a training 
home for ladies ; and converts from this station have 
accompanied missionaries to provinces as distant as KAN- 
SUH and SI-CH'UEN. The following extract from an account 
of the women's work of the Mission in the "Story of the 
C.I.M." points out the value of this training home : 

"To-day it is no longer considered impossible or even difficult to 
send ladies to the remotest parts of the empire. It is generally recog- 
nized that they can live and work as well among women fifteen hundred 
miles from the coast as among those at the open ports. No station is 
considered complete unless women are found on its staff, and a 
thorough organization for facilitating the work is now an integral part 
of the Inland Mission. 

' ' How different the experience of the young worker going out at 
present in connection with the C. I. M. from what it was ten years ago ! 
From the moment of landing in China, she finds herself surrounded by 
those whose chief aim it is to help her to learn the language, get into 
touch with the people, understand and accommodate herself to her new 
surroundings, discover the sphere for which she is most suited, and 
safely accomplish the journey thither. 

"Ladies are ready to receive her at Shang-hai, and arrange her 



48 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

Chinese outfit. A happy, quiet home awaits her at Yang-chau, two 
clays' journey inland, where helpful missionary friends expect her com- 
ing, and a capital staff of teachers, both foreign and Chinese, are ready 
to initiate her into the mysteries of the language. Theieare those at 
hand ready to give all information she may desire about the far-reaching 
operations of the Mission, and to make her acquainted with its stations, 
workers, and various openings and needs. Comfort in hours of loneli- 
ness, spiritual help and strength, counsel in all matters of difficulty, and 
the noblest inspiration for future service, are all to be found in tiie 
loving sympathy and Christlike lives of those who have specially 
devoted themselves to increasing the usefulness of her missionary career. 
Experienced escorts are ready later on to make the journey easy to 
some distant scene of labour, where in many cases she will be welcomed 
by other ladies, who have gone before, made a home, and found a 
sphere affording speedy openings' for usefulness. And all this complete 
organization is in the hands of missionary women like herself, whose 
deepest sympathy is with her, who have given up the direct personal 
service so dear to their hearts that they may place their experience at 
her disposal and forward the whole cause by strengthening and helping 
her." 

5. Ts'lNG-KlANG-P'U (OR Ts'lNG-HO HlEN). 

Was visited in October, 1868, and mission premises were 
secured there by Mr. Duncan on July 2oth, 1869. Mr. 
Henry Reid lived there until the work was well established, 
and a Church formed. Worked as an out-station till 1887, 
it has since had resident missionaries. 

6. GAN-TUNG (HIEN). 

An out-station from Ts'ing-kiang-p'u since 1887, it has 
had resident missionaries since 1891. A few converts have 
been baptized, and there are promising inquirers. 

7. KAO-YIU (CHAD). 

Another of the Yang-chau out-stations. Has had lady 
workers since 1889. Souls have been saved, and an 
out-station was formed at Ling-tseh. The latter seeming 



THE PROVINCE OF KIANG-SU 



49 



suitable for station work, in 1893 lady missionaries were 
sent there also. Ling-tseh is now the eighth KIANG-SU 
station. 

9. SHANG-HAI. 

Is entirely a business station. The continuous growth of 
the Mission, necessitating much traffic to and fro, led to 
the recognition of its importance as a business centre ; and 
accordingly premises for business purposes were secured 
there in 1874. The ever-increasing claims have led to 
more roomy premises being rented from time to time, and 
more recently, through the munificence of one donor, a large 
piece of ground was secured, and spacious buildings erected, 
providing accommodation for C.I.M. missionaries passing 
through, for offices and store-rooms, etc., also a commodi- 
ous hall for prayer-meetings. 

Missionaries staying in Shang-hai have been a means of 
blessing in work amongst sailors, and an evangelistic meet- 
ing for foreign residents and visitors is held in the prayer 
hall at 8.30 every Sunday evening. A public prayer-meet- 
ing for the inland work of the Mission is held in this hall 
every Saturday, at 7.30 p.m., when tidings of the work are 



given. 




C.I.M. OFFICES AND HOME, SHANG-HAI. 



4^ AI~Ti:R THIRTY YEARS 

Chine.-e nuilit. A happy, <]iiiet home awaits licr at Yaii-chau, t\vo 
day.-,' journey inlanil. \vliero helpful missionary friends expect, her com- 
ing, and a capital slat'f of teachers, liotli foreign and Chinese, are ready 
to initiate her into the mysteries of the language. Theie ave those at 
hand ready to give all inlormation she may desire about the far-reaching 
operations ol the Mission, and to make her acquainted with its stations, 
workers, and various openings and needs. Comfort in hours of loneli- 
ness, spiritual help and strength, counsel in all matters of difficulty, and 
the noblest inspiration for future service, arc all to be found in the 
loving sympathy and Chrisihke lives of those who have specially 
devoted themselves to increasing the usefulness of her mis-ionary career. 
Experienced escorts are ready later on to make the journey easy to 
some di-tant scene of labour, where in many cases .>he will be welcomed 
by other ladies, who have gone before, made a home, and found a 
sphere affording speedy openings for usefulness. And all this complete 
organization is in the hands of missionary women like herself, whose 
deepest sympathy is with her, who have given up the direct personal 
service so dear to their hearts that they may place their experience at 
her disposal and iorward the whole cause by strengthening and helping 
her/' 

5. T.S'IXG-KIAXG-P'U (OR T.s'lXG-HO HlKX). 

Was visited in October, 1868, and mission premises were 
secured there by Mr. Duncan on July 2oth, 1869. Mr. 
Henry Reid lived there until the work was well established, 
and a Church formed. "\Yorked as an out-station till 1887, 
it has since had resident missionaries. 

6. GAX-TUXG (HiEx). 

An out-station from Ts'ing-kiang-p ! u since 1887, it has 
had resident missionaries since 1891. A few converts have 
been bapti/ed, and there are promising inquirers. 

7. KAO-VIU (Ci-iAv). 

Another of the Yang-chati out-stations. Has had lady 
workers since 1889. Souls have been saved, and an 
out-station was formed at Ling-tseh. The latter seeming 



THE PROVINCE OF K I A . Yf7-S U 



49 



suitable for station work, in 1893 lady missionaries were 
sent there also. Ling-tseh is now the eighth KIAXU-STJ 
station. 

9. SIIANG-IIAI. 

Is entirely a business station. The continuous growth of 
the Mission, necessitating much traffic to and fro, led to 
the recognition of its importance as a business centre; and 
accordingly premises for business purposes were secured 
there in 1874. The ever-increasing claims have led to 
more roomy premises being rented from time to time, and 
more recently, through the munificence of one donor, a large 
piece of ground was secured, and spacious buildings erected, 
providing accommodation for C.I. M. missionaries passing 
through, for offices and store-rooms, etc., also a commodi- 
ous hall for prayer-meetings. 

Missionaries staying in Shang-hai have been a means of 
blessing in work amongst sailors, and an evangelistic meet- 
ing for ioreign residents and visitors is held in the prayer 
hall at 8.30 every Sunday evening. A public prayer-meet- 
ing for the inland work of the Mission is held in this hall 
every Saturday, at 7.30 p.m., when tidings of the work are 



given. 



*^is ft *BBs*f &&'.* "^*?r>-& '.?- * fefSiMHaaaa 
"^&S8Slf^"Siiw^~ -* ? 1 ^' ; ""^'l. 'tl^^^ rr 

'- ^^^y^K-T.'''^ 1 ,:' -.~? *--;'&. ~ ff ,-~~ ~^""_' ' i^^-^^' a ^gs*^y^^jJL:--*i-\r'?g*^^<-^f.... ^r^lll y,i~~]- '_ _ 




C.I.M. OFFICES AND HOME, SIIANG-IIAI. 



CO 

6 



H 



u 



H 
-r; 
t-i 
oo 






,N - 







tuoij pszqdEg 


Im i 
1-1 < 


J^ 

3N 


OO 
N 


diqSA\o[[3jj 


1 "1OO ONCO m 1 




^ 


sjadpjj piEdu^ 


-1" - 




. 


U3iuoA\-3[qig 







N ) 


pUE SJ3q3E3J [OOqOg 


N 




*l 2 . 


q 3 u d ,UE 1S! ss V 


f^ II t-H 1-4 




/ rt 

^j. o 


SJO1SEJ pSUltpJQ 


1 






*S3Ar^Y -nstj} pu^e 

S3317OOSSY" *S3IJ'EUOISStT\[ 


**O O^v i-O C*l ^O N O^ 

h-t 




OS 


suonBis-^no 








unS^OAv 


t^COCOoO CN'-'CO f<1 ^t" 

*o vo oo co co CNOO ON t^. 

^ococooocococococo 




i 
















. 


*>[IIE^ 


rt^-^-^GJUrtOJOJ 









H-, hin CJ^-,^ 




rt 












t 


J 






"X t> s 


J 




c 

n 

JJ 


1 O C. 

fc/) s p . J ^ 1 


) 

> 






^V.Sc x Sio^|X,a 
^c^O>HO^^c^ W 


5 
) 






t-t N ro ^- xn'O t^-co O 







OO 

\o 

CO 



1) 

c 
<u 



u 



1) 
o 

<5 
p 



CO 



s 

o 

O 



" 
O 



CHAPTER VII 
THE PROVINCE OF GAN-HWOY 

fOR fifteen years after the C.I.M. commenced work 
in this province, it had no other Protestant mis- 
sionaries. It was the first wholly unoccupied 
province entered by the Mission. The first missionaries 
to take up their residence in Gan-hwuy were Messrs. 
Meadows and Williamson, who left Chin-kiang about the 
end of 1868, with a view to opening up work in the 
capital. Gan-k'ing was reached by them in January, 1869. 
An interesting account of their early experiences will be 
found in the "Story of the C.I.M." Mr. and Mrs. 
Meadows and their children, with Mr. Williamson, passed 
through a riot before they were finally settled ; then came 
the joy of the first half-dozen converts. When failing 
health made furlough necessary, Mr. George Duncan held 
the post for a season, baptizing additional converts and 
itinerating through the south of the province. But it was 
not until Mr. McCarthy took charge that ground was 
purchased and permanent premises were erected, which 
are still occupied by the Mission. Out-stations, too, were 
first opened about this time. Kwang-teh, at one time 
connected with Hang-chau, was transferred to Gan-k'ing ; 
Wu-hu was opened in March and Ta-t'ung in June, 1873. 



52 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

In 1874 T'ai-p'ing Fu, Ch'i'-chau, and Ning-kwoh were 
opened as out-stations. In 1875 Hwuy-chau was re- 
opened ; and Fung-yang and Lu-chau were attempted, but 
without permanent success. As will be seen from the 
statistical table which follows, a number of these places 
have since been worked as stations. Limitations of space 
prevent our attempting detail. 




From a rhoto] [fry MR. M. BROOMHALL. 

TEACHER AND NATIVE CHRISTIANS, GAN-K'lNG'. 



53 





|_H |_| )_-< h-| | 1 

f^ OJ W M O*O O^'^-JO'N Oi -^ OJ 10 t-* 








EHr^Q^^^^HOt^QH 
| f 1 J I' ?- 1 Jj' 3 1 1 1 ^ LS 1: 


p 

5 






Q p 






, 1 








H 










t 1 * " t-H f*^ }~4 (1 (^ * ^ t 1 

*^i i: 2 th ^ =r ^ ii ti ,^^22 


Rank. 


cn 

H 
\> 








H 


: 


c^cocoarocccoococo coccccooco 
OCvO ^O vO C/QO *^i vO vO O^ l O CX; OCO 
... OW'O'-'-f^-^-O,) 'OO'^'^ItO 


Work Begun. 


C/5 

H 

t t 




VO 


h-t II 10 M 10 1 OJ 


Out-stations. 


r 
>-3 


Ln 


ON -OJOJONCN ^^4.^0, 


Missionaries, Associates, 
and their Wives. 


a 


1 


1 1 1 


Ordained Pastors. 


o 
o 


H(S 


tO | W M OJ t-H H-1 HH 


Assistant Preachers. 




f-S ON 

., 


tO 1 M M I 


School Teac.hcTS and 
Colporteurs. 


^ 


10 
W ICN 


1^ l-l *-l >-l 1 ( M 


Bible-women. 


,""* 


ON 


1 i-i 10 1 OJ 1 


Unpaid Helpers. 




to 

CO 


wl On 00 ^1 
OJ 1 -f^- OJ O^ CO ON ON OJ 


Communicants in 
Fellowship. 




t 


HI HI CO ON i- 
OJ On ON 10 ON ONO ON 10 


Baptized from 
Commencement. 




1 1 

Ui 


to HI 1 OJ -P>. HI to HI HI 


Organized Churches. 





.-!/ '//: A' y/// A' 7T V/T.IA'S 



Kt- 



In 1874 T'ai-p'ing Fu, C'h'T-chau, and Ning-kwoh were 
opened as out-stations. In iS;5 llwuy-chau was re- 
opened: and Fung yang and Fu chau were attempted, but 
without permanent success. As will be seen from the 
statistical table which follows, a number of these places 
have since been worked as stations. Limitations of space 
prevent our attempting detail. 



i f 




*Vs. - 

-, ** - 3s. -^ 



V 







/" '}'"''] [/ir MR. M. 

TK..VHKR AND NATIVK CHRISTIANS, flAN-K'lNO. 




i i-^S-gA*-. <n = _ 

|. . . :. - 7 :.^l- 



o 
c. 






Rank. 



c/: ^/-. oc v. :/: v: v, ex: v. I <y. c/~. 

^ o o o ~s. ~ ~~ i c: ' o 1 c c 

4-" 4- O tJ -O ~ A r- '~JJ O O 



ri.;<. A-nriale., ' ^ 
u 01 c.oi 4- 4- OJ j an ,| ti.ui, \Vivo. 

O 

/J 

O 



^ o 



S..1 1 T-.I- ll. !> .111.1 j 

(.'H!IHII I. Mil -. j 

I 

riili!c-\\'onicn. I 



I-) I OJ 



o - 

o cvc 



Uii[iciid Helpers. 



CV>niiniinir;uits ill 



]!;i]iti/C(.l from 
Commencement. 



w 10 w i-i 



Organized Chu'.xlie; 



CHAPTER VIII 

KIANG-SI: A NEW DEPARTURE IN WOMEN'S WORK 

N December, 1869, Mr. Cardwell reached Kiu-kiang, 
then the only mission station in this province. The 
Rev. V. C. Hart, of the Methodist Episcopal Mission 
of U.S.A., welcomed him kindly. A native house on the 
busy street outside the west gate of the city was rented, 
and a street chapel opened. In March, 1871, Mr. Card- 
well's itinerant work began, and between that time and 
September, 1872, he had visited the capital, the Kan river 
as far south as Wan-gan Hien, the cities and towns 
around the Po-yang lake, up the Fu-chau river as far as 
the Fu city, the Kwang-sin river as far as Gan-ren, the 
Kao-chau river, etc., in all reaching 102 places. In July, 
1873, he opened Ta-ku-t'ang as an out-station, and five 
years later procured a site there, on which he subsequently 
built a house, making it his headquarters. Limited space 
will not allow further notice of the work done from this 
centre by Mr. Cardwell and his successors. 

In the year 1886 the first convert was baptized in Kwei- 
k'i by Mr. D. B. Thompson, of Kiu-chau, CHEH-KIANG. 
At that time Mr. Hudson Taylor, taking with him the 
Misses Murray and some others, visited all the KIANG-SI 
stations ; and the conclusion was arrived at to make the 

5-t 



A NEW DEPARTURE IN WOMEN'S WORK 55 

Kwang-sin river the seat of a new departure in Women's 
Work. The native helpers evidently needed help them- 
selves ; they were unable, moreover, to reach the women, 
and the few native Christians seemed to have but little in- 
fluence over the womenfolk of their own families. Might 
not wise lady workers strengthen the spiritual life of native 
pastors and preachers, read the Scriptures with them, and 
keep them full of fresh thought, leaving them to evangelize 
the men and shepherd the Christians, while they them- 
selves specially worked among the women ? It was 
believed they could. Miss Mackintosh, Miss Lily Webb, 
and Miss Jeanie Gray started in June, 1886, travelled and 
evangelized until the autumn, staying longer or shorter 
times at various points ; and Women's Work on the 
Kwang-sin river was successfully begun. It has been con- 
tinued ever since. Four years later the first KIANG-SI 
Conference was held at Yiih-shan, September 8th and gth, 
1890. The following quotation refers to it : 

" We stand within the compound of a mission dwell- 
ing, around us an inland city, beautifully situated in the 
heart of a fine mountain region, the watershed of three 
provinces : CHEH-KIANG, FUH-KIEN, and KIANG-SI. Two 
hundred miles away lies the coast-line of the empire and 
the comparative civilization of the open ports. A spacious 
but unpretending building is before us, pleasant and home- 
like in spite of its Chinese exterior. 

"... In the guest-hall . . . summer sunshine 
falls on the simple furniture, arranged in semi-Chinese style, 
with a baby organ in one corner. 

" At the central table a group of ladies are intent on 
some important work, young most of them, none past 



56 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

thirty-five, and all in Chinese dress. . . . How sweet 
and bright the light upon those faces ! how purposeful and 
strong the spirit that shines there ! And how much, one 
feels, must lie behind the restful, earnest calm so clearly 
written on many a brow! Gathered from distant lands, 
representing five nationalities and as many different sec- 
tions of the Church of CHRIST, . . . what is the 
meaning of this little group ? 

" Upon the beautiful Kwang-sin river, in North-eastern 
KIANG si, the China Inland Mission has a chain of eight 
important stations. Little Churches are formed in all these 
places, and a devoted band of native helpers are spreading 
the Gospel in the districts around. No men missionaries 
are settled in this region. Ladies only are in charge of this 
rapidly growing work. And these sixteen young unmarried 
sisters represent the band of twenty-one who are holding 
the fort alone. In the whole of this vast province, almost 
as large as England and Scotland put together, and with a 
population of fifteen millions, theirs is the only work for 
women, excepting some efforts on the Po-yang lake and 
at Kiu-kiang, on the Yang-tsi. At a considerable distance 
from any other foreigners they live together in native houses 
in these Chinese cities, wearing the native dress and going 
in and out among the people, unprotected and without 
fear. At intervals their superintendent, Mr. McCarthy, 
comes over from Yang-chau to visit the stations and give 
what help he can. At this little conference he has met 
them now, and very helpful are his words of sympathy and 
encouragement and his counsels, born of long experience. 

" Together they bring their difficulties to the LORD in 
prayer ; together they talk over the best way of working 



A NEW DEPARTURE IN WOMEN'S WORK 57 

their stations, of helping the native Christians and reaching 
the unreached. And in the earnest, loving atmosphere of 
that consecrated band one feels a new inspiration to ser- 
vice and a deepened faith in the wonder-working power of 
GOD, whose strength is 'made perfect in weakness.'" 




^ft.i> ^~ ^ 

^jg^lV;:-? -- 



THE MISSION HOUSE AT YUII-SIIAlN. 

Many souls have been saved, not a few of whom were 
aged people who went to their reward, their names never 
having been enrolled on the Church books. Indeed; one 
feature of the Kwang-sin work is the number of aged 
people who have been converted. Up to the end of 1893 
the number of baptisms since this movement was inaugu- 



f)0 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

thirty-five, and all in Chinese dress. . . . How sweet 
and bright the light upon those faces ! how purposeful and 
strong the spirit that shines there ! And how much, one 
feels, must lie behind the restful, earnest calm so clearly 
written on many a brow! Gathered from distant lands, 
representing five nationalities and as many different sec- 
tions of the Church of CHRIST, . . . what is the 
meaning of this little group? 

" Upon the beautiful Kwang-sin river, in North-eastern 
KIA.VC, si, the China Inland Mission has a chain of eight 
important stations. Little Churches are formed in all these 
places, and a devoted band of native helpers are spreading 
the Gospel in the districts around. No men missionaries 
are settled in this region. Ladies only are in charge of this 
rapidly growing work. And these sixteen young unmarried 
sisters represent the band of twenty-one who are holding 
the fort alone. In the whole of this vast province, almost 
as large as England and Scotland put together, and with a 
population of fifteen millions, theirs is the only work for 
women, excepting some efforts on the Po-yang lake and 
at Kiu-kiang, on the Yang-tsi. At a considerable distance 
from any other foreigners they live together in native houses 
in these Chinese cities, wearing the native dress and going 
in and out among the people, unprotected and without 
fear. At intervals their superintendent, Mr. McCarthy, 
comes over from Yang-chau to visit the stations and give 
what help he can. At this little conference he has met 
them now, and very helpful are his words of sympathy and 
encouragement and his counsels, born of long experience. 

"Together they bring their difficulties to the LORD in 
prayer ; together they talk over the best way of working 



A NEW DEPARTURE IN WOMEN'S WORK 



57 



their stations, of helping the native Christians and reaching 
the unrcachcd. .And in the earnest, loving atmosphere of 
that consecrated hand one feels a new inspiration to ser- 
vice and a deepened faith in the wonder-working power of 
GOD, whose strength is ' made perfect in weakness.' " 




THE MISSION HOUSE AT YUII-SIIA^. 

Many souls have been saved, not a few of whom were 
aged people who went to their reward, their names never 
having been enrolled on the Church books. Indeed, one 
feature of the Kwang-sin work is the number of aged 
people who have been converted. Up to the end of 1893 
the number of baptisms since this movement was inaugu- 



58 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

rated was 370 ; six additional Churches have been organized, 
and there were many candidates who have since been 
received. The development of this work under the super- 
intendence of Mr. [McCarthy and its growth under the 
care of Mr. Orr-Ewing have been most interesting and im- 
portant. The record of this movement and of Women's 
Work for Women in connection with the Mission, as given 
in the " Story of the C.I.M.," is well worthy of perusal. 

To complete the survey of the work in KIANG-SI would 
require a reference to Nan-k'ang Fu, on the Po-yang lake, 
and a sketch of the efforts of the brethren on the Kan 
river. In connection with the latter commenced in 1888 
and carried on amid many difficulties, but without inter- 
mission stations were opened in Kih-gan Fu and in Feng- 
kang, a town near Kan-chau Fu, in 1891. In the Lin- 
kiang prefecture a permanent settlement has not yet been 
obtained. Cheng-shu, a town in that prefecture, opened in 
1891, had to be relinquished a couple of years later, and 
our brother Mr. Lawson, after years of labour, is still 
itinerating without a home. 



59 











OC* 1 vi ON<-/I - OJ W M O VO OO*-4 OLJi * OJ IO )-i 






3 ^" 2- ^" ^w ?rcn ^" ^ CTQ ^* ^* ^ ^ A- P" 
g-cm Scrq 3 S p 5- 5 1 , crqjc^ 


w 




g W W c/5 ' rfq ^ 


o 

3 




^ 3 






^-^ 




c 






p 


, ^ ii_3_J^Ji_3^J i_3 








Rank 


: 












: 


CO CO CO CO CO CC CO CO CO CO CO CO CO OO CO OO CO CO 
VO ^O COVO "~-J CO^O <O ^O "^-J VO VO *^I vO CO CO*^J CO 
1-1 1-1 CO 10 >-J ^O O OJ 10 CO O IO COOJ O ^J OJ O 


Work Begun. 





>-( Ul OJ 1 4^ 


Out-stations. 


5 


t^j 4^^-it^Cototoojto4^tOi-i4 :b to4^4^OoC> 


Missionaries, Associates, 
and their Wives. 


to 


1 


Ordained Pastors. 


O J^ 

T / 


[0 to 1-1 4^ i-i i-i OJ "i 1 


Assistant Preachers. 


*""' \ 

OJ OJ 

to 


1 


School Teachers and 
Colporteurs. 


to 


I 
frOiO_i-iOJ>-< i-c 


Bible-women. 


OO 


- 0.1 00 HH 


Unpaid Helpers. 





( I 
VQ *-* "" -^- ' *-^ OO i 1 
CO^O^ ^4 CT4^ "^IOtOU"i 


Communicants in 
Fellowship. 


to 

CO 


1 to to - o-i I-H oo ^ -< 
j i HH O ^^T. 1^1 OJ vO to O OCLn 


Baptized from 
i Commencement. 


1 1 

o 


J-4h-l-1 J-N ,_! M M )-i l-l h-4 


Organized Churches. 




CHAPTER IX 
THE PROVINCE OF HU-PEH^ 

'HE story of C.T.M. work in this province may soon 
be told. The Mission only entered it with a view 
to reaching regions beyond. In June, 1874, a 
house was rented by Mr. Judd in the capital, Wu-ch'ang, 
and subsequently a Church was gathered there. In after- 
years the work of the station became increasingly a busi- 
ness work, and was ultimately transferred to Han-kow. The 
converts passed into other care. 

I-ch'ang was opened in 1876, but relinquished when the 
Church of Scotland commenced work in that city. It will 
probably be re-opened before long as a business station and 
port of call en route for the west, and in addition will be 
used as a basis for work in HU-NAN. 

Sha-sh'i and Sh'ih-sheo were opened by Mr. Adam 
Donvard in 1884 and 1887, with a view to working into 
HU-NAN. From lack of strength they have been but 
feebly worked as out-stations. Three missionaries having 
been designated for HU-NAN, as noted below, it is intended 
to resume this work with vigour. 

Fan-ch'eng was opened in 1878 as a convenient basis for 
work beyond. A few Christians were gathered, but after 

1 For Statistical Table, see page 63. 
60 



THE PROVINCE OF HU-PEH 



6l 



some years the work was transferred to the Swedish Mis- 
sionary Society, as Lao-ho-k'eo, opened by Mr. George 




From a Photo} [by DR. HOWARD TAYLOR. ' 

THE BOUNDARY-LINE BETWEEN HU-PEH AND IIO-NAN. 

King in 1887, proved a more convenient basis. The work 
there is very encouraging. 




CHAPTER IX 

THE PROVINCE OF HU-PEH 1 

'IIF .story of C.I.M. work in this province may soon 
be told. The [Mission only entered it with a view 
to reaching regions beyond. In June, 1874, a 
house was rented by Mr. Judd in the capital, Wu-ch"ang, 
and subsequently a Church was gathered there. In after- 
years the work of the station became increasingly a busi- 
ness work, and was ultimately transferred to Han-kow. The 
converts passed into other care. 

I-ch'ang was opened in 1876, but relinquished when the 
Church of Scotland commenced work in that city. It will 
probably be re-opened before long as a business station and 
port of call cu route for the west, and in addition will be 
used as a basis for work in FIu-XAX. 

Sha-sh'i and Shih-sheo were opened by Mr. Adam 
Dorwarcl in 1884 and 1887, with a view to working into 
HU-XAX. From lack of strength they have been but 
feebly worked as out-stations. Three missionaries having 
been designated for HU-NAX, as noted below, it is intended 
to resume this work with vigour. 

Faivch'eng was opened in 1878 as a convenient basis for 
work beyond. A few Christians were gathered, but after 

1 For Statistical Table, s-:c page 63. 
60 



THE PROVINCE OF IIU-PETT 



6l 



some years the work was transferred to the Swedish Mis- 
sionary Society, as T.aohok'eo, opened by Mr. George 



'';*. '-- ' > '" . ^^^T!-.';;jr-*f 

' 




From a rhoto\ [by DR. HOWARD TAYLOR. 

THE I'.OUXDARY-I.IXE BETWEEN HU-l'EII AND 1IO-NAN. 

King in 1887, proved a more convenient basis. The work 
there is very encouraging. 




THE MORE DISTANT PROVINCES 

CHAPTER X 
THE PROVINCE OF HO- NAN 

r HEN Mr. Henry Taylor began his itinerations in 
1875, it was hoped that station work would soon 
follow ; it was far otherwise. In 1880 Mr. Henry 
Hunt, having been for about a year quietly settled in 
Ru-ning Fu, took his bride to that station ; but a couple 
of months later troubles arose, and they were driven away. 
It was not until 1884 that a station was finally opened in 
this province at Chau-kia-k'eo. She-k'i-tien and Siang- 
ch'eng Hien followed in 1886 and 1891. Much itinera- 
tion has been done in the province. An opium refuge 
was opened in Chang-teh Fu, by native Christians from 
SHAN-SI, about the year 1887 ; but no missionary has been 
sent to reside there, as the Canadian Presbyterian Mission 
selected that part of HO-NAN as their field. 









1 














OT. * O 


) M 1-1 






10 w 








U 


Q 






G St" 1 








n "" 


P 3 






~ 








2 " 


ST <"> 


t 4 




o r-s^ 
2- c 






? 

1 


3 1/ 


iw 2" 

o 


O 

z 




r-f ft * Q 
P f^ 


c g 

B 1' 

' t/) 




CK 


<*0 


^ 


" 




O 






> 


v. ~ . 









. 




H 
o 




o, 

i I 

c7 


^ 5 

2 




H 
o 


HH 
1 2 2 


Rank. 


P__ 




00 C 
CO C 
C^ 4 s 


4 1 < 
CO 
O vO 

k H-4 




P, 


I CO CO 
1 CC 00 
*O ^J 


Work Begun. 


: 






1 




: 


1 


Out-stations. 


to 

HH 




00 * 


-( 

- to 




HH 

to 


^ 


Missionaries, Associates, 
and their Wives. 


( 










[I 




Ordained Pastors. 


) 




, 


H H, 




H 

O "- 1 


~ 


Assistant Preachers. 


;) - 











^ to 


to 


School Teachers and 
Colporteurs. 
















Bible-women. 


V 










\ 






M 




h 


H 




1 


1 


Unpaid Helpers 


O 

to 




CTv C 


^ O 




d 


1 d 


Communicants in 
Fellowship. 


>-H 


t 


to -- 

O vo t 


-f^ 




HH 
hH 
1 1 


CO OJ 

- o 

1 


Baptized from 
! Commencement. 


* 




>-< C. 


j 1-1 







I I 


Organized Churches. 



CHAPTER XI 
HU-NAN: CLOSED AGAINST THE GOSPEL 

TINERANT work began in this province in 1875. 
Mr. Donvard, who came out in 1878, threw his 
whole soul into this work, and devoted his life to 
it. Twice he succeeded in opening a station, but on 
each occasion it had to be relinquished a year or so later. 
A telegram dated October 3rd, 1888, announced his death 
in the midst of his labours. HU-NAN has been repeatedly 
visited since; and the Rev. George Hunter and two other 
brethren have volunteered for work in this difficult pro- 
vince. 



CHAPTER XII 
THE PROVINCE OF KAN-SUH 

I TINERANT work was commenced in this province 
1 in 1876 by Messrs. Easton and Parker, and two 
^ years later the former opened the first station 
Ts'in-chau. Much itinerant work has been done in this 
province, especially by Mr. Parker. Not only has every 
important place in the province been visited, and Scrip- 
tures been circulated in six languages, but Mr. Parker's 
longest journey extended far beyond the borders of this 
province, when Kuldja was reached. 

The capital, Lan-chau, was opened in 1885 ; Si-ning, to 
the west, and Ning-hsia, to the north-east, were occupied 
the same year, in the hope of reaching Thibetans and 
Mongols as well as Chinese. Liang-chau followed in 
1888. Miss Annie Taylor went to reside in T'ao-chau in 
1891, and remained there until she took her adventurous 
journey into Thibet in 1892-3. Mr. and Mrs. Cecil 
Polhill Turner also spent much time and suffered con- 
siderable hardship in labouring among the Thibetans. 
The C.I.M. is the only Mission in this province. 



66 



I I I I I I I 1 



5U3UI30U9UIUJO3 

uioa; pazqdBg 



ON 



M O 



oo 



I I 



OO 



ON 
rj- 



M O\ 

-d-oo 



ptBdufi 



1-1 N 



CO 



sjna;jod[03 pus 



psurepjQ 



. 

pue 'sa^Eio 

'SSUBUOISStpJ 



uiOO 

oo oo co oo 

00 OO OOOO OO 



Sta 



K 
t> 
en 



^ V w- 

J. fcJO C O 

S 3 c-s A 
S 



vO 
N 



2 

id 
X 
CO 



i-t M oi m ro in 



moo ro rt- f> Th fi f*i O O c\ r>. 

ONOO ONONONOSONONONON t^OO 

oooooooooooooooooooooooo 



rt 3 



rt 

^-> 
O 



tuO 
I 






l 



O\ O 




CHAPTER XIII 
THE PROVINCE OF SHEN-SI* 

first journey of C.I.M. pioneers into this prov- 
ince was in 1876, when Messrs. F. W. Bailer and 
George King reached Hsing-gan Fu. The second 
journey brought a party of four to the capita], Si-gan Fu, 
on December igth of the same year. Two of the party 
went on at once to KAN-SUH ; the others evangelized in 
SHEN-SI. There is not a city in this province in which 
itinerant evangelistic and colportage work has not been 
done. 

In 1879 Mr. George King opened Han-chung Fu, and 
many efforts were made somewhat later to open Si-gan, but 
without permanent success. In 1887 Mr. Pearse opened 
Ch'eng-ku Hien, and in the following year Feng-tsiang Fu 
was opened. San-yiien Hien and T'ung-chau Fu became 
stations in 1890, opened by members of the Swedish 
Mission in China ; the former station they subsequently 
transferred to the Baptist Missionary Society of England, 
who recently sent missionaries into this province. In 1893 
Mei-hien, Lung-chau, Cheo-ch'iih, Hing-p'ing, and, last, but 
not least, Si-gan, the capital, were opened for residence; 
and since then K'ien-chau and Sung-kia-ch'uang have also 

1 For Statistical Table, see opposite page. 



68 



AFTER THIRTY YEARS 



become stations. The opening of these cities was pre- 
ceded by several years of faithful itineration ; all but three 
of them were opened and occupied by associates of the 
Scandinavian China Alliance. 




A FRIENDLY EX-OFFICIAL ON SI-GAN PLAIN. 



CHAPTER XIV 




THE PROVINCE OF SHAN -SI 

TINERANT work 
was commenced in 
this province by 
Messrs. Turner and 
James. Shortly after- 
wards the famine 
years began, and the 
reports of these 
brethren as eye-wit- 
nesses led to wide- 
spread relief opera- 
tions. Devoted 
workers from several 
missions went to 
SHAN-SI to assist in 

PASTOR HSI. the distribution of 

relief; one of them, the Rev. A. Whiting, of Nan-kin, laid 
down his life in this service. 

In 1877 T'ai-yiien Fu became a mission station, and 
P'ing-yang in 1879; it had been a relief station the year 
before. The labours of the Rev. D. Hill (of the Wesleyan 
Mission, Han-kow) in this place were blessed to the con- 
version of a Chinese siii-ts'ai (B.A.), who has proved a 

69 



65 



AFTER THIRTY YEARS 



become stations. The opening of these cities was pre- 
ceded by several years of faithful itineration ; all but three 
of them were opened and occupied by associates of the 
Scandinavian China Alliance. 




-s 





A FRIENDLY RX-OFFICIAT, ON SI-GAN PLAIX. 



CHAPTER XIV 




THE rROVlNCE OF SHAN-SI 

TIN ER ANT work 
was commenced in 
this province by 
Messrs. Turner and 
James. Shortly after- 
wards the fa m i n e 
years began, and the 
reports of these 
brethren as eye-wit- 
nesses led to wide- 
spread relief opera- 
tions. Devoted 
workers from several 
missions went to 
SHAN-SI to assist in 

PASTOR usi. the distribution of 

relief; one of them, the Rev. A. Whiting, of Nan-kin, laid 
down his life in this service. 

In 1877 T'ai-yucn Fu became a mission station, and 
P'ing-yang in 1879; it had been a relief station the year 
before. The labours of the Rev. D. Hill (of the Wesleyan 
Mission, Han-kow) in this place were blessed to the con- 
version of a Chinese siu-ts\ii (B.A.), who has proved a 



JO AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

remarkable instrument in the hand of GOD. By 1881 
itinerant evangelistic work had reached every city in the 
province but two ; they were visited shortly afterwards. 

The Statistical Table will show the dates at which the 
various stations south of T'ai-yiien were opened. Lack of 
space precludes description of this interesting work ; it 
should however, be mentioned that most of the Cambridge 
Band received their training and did their first work in Sih- 
chau, Ta-ning, K'iih-wu (all opened in 1885), P'ing-yang 
(opened in 1879), an ^ m Hung-tung (opened in 1886). In 
1887 Mr. Stanley Smith opened Lu-gan Fu, in conjunction 
with Mr. Studd, who subsequently worked the station 
independently of the Mission ; Mr. Stanley Smith opening 
Lu-ch'eng Hien in 1889. Before leaving for England in 
the autumn of 1894, Mr.. Studd handed over his work to 
the C.I.M., and with it generously presented to the 
Mission the large and valuable premises he had purchased 
and further enlarged in Lu-gan Fu. 

The work at Yiiin-ch'eng and I-sh'i, the most southerly 
stations of the province, as well as that of T'ung-chau Fu 
in SHEN-SI, is carried on by the members of the " Swedish 
Mission in China," who are associates of the C.I.M. 

North of the great wall, Kwei-hwa-ch'eng (really in Mon- 
golia) was opened as a mission station in 1886 by Mr. 
George Clarke. Pao-t'eo, an important trading town on the 
Yellow river, opened by Mr. Burnett in 1888, has latterly 
been worked by our associates of the Holiness Union of 
Sweden. Between the two walls, Ta-t'ung Fu was opened 
by Mr. Thomas King in 1886, and work was begun among 
the 800 towns and villages governed by this city ; many of 
them have had the offer of the Gospel. 




vQ OO~J O\vyi 4^ OJ to M O ^O GO^4 CM-n 4^ W to w 


09 

=Co ^ o! u ? 6 c^v: 2. g- 3' s' 4. 

2 P- . 2 ^ ~- =r a. e a TO s . .. 

tn s ^ P ? 
aq ^ o_ 

ft" 

3 

CTQ 

^/-vTT 1 l T'(~l'T l T ll T l O > T l (~ l T 1 /-\ HH 
1 I "HQ H ^. Krl . y . . tl JZT-T-^l-rlO ~ 
en cgv^-'s'gPgPggg^gpg^C^B' 

OOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOCCOOOOOCOOOOOOOOCX) 
VO OO OO\O OC-~4 OO OO-O OOVO VO OO OO GO--] GO OO OC 

-._.-... . _ _ _ ( w C/ , DOJ ^ . . - - - 



Rank. 



Work Begun. 



l-l M N 



Out-stations. 



CC 

<o 



M issionaries, Associates, 
and their Wives. 



" 



Ordained Pastors. 



8. 



OJ 



Assistant Preachers. 






10 U) M N i-i 



School Teachers and 
Colporteurs. 






Bible women. 



4^ ON 



Unpaid Helpers. 



00 

VJ 

oo 



H I M ^4 H Ol 1 

O tn 4^ OJ ^1 



Communicants in 
Fellowship. 



K> 

ON W 



Ln -f^ 



O\>O vO 



O LK 

OO to <O 



Baptized from 
Commencement. 



Organized Churches. 




CHAPTER XV 
THE PROVINCE OF SI-CH'UEN 

>HE first C.I.M. missionary to reach SI-CH'UEN was 
Mr. Judd on his way back from Kwei-yang : he 
arrived at Ch'ung-k'ing March i4th, 1877. As he 
passed down the river, Mr. McCarthy passed up, reaching 
Wan-hien April 3rd. After a month's overland evangelistic 
work, Mr. McCarthy came to Ch'ung-k'ing (via Shun-k'ing) 
on May 3rd, and rented a house there before continuing 
his journey. Soon after Messrs. Cameron and Nicoll fol- 
lowed, the former proceeding through Eastern Thibet to 
YUN-NAN and Bhamo ; the latter, after a shorter journey, 
beginning work in Ch'ung-k'ing. In 1881 Mr. Samuel 
Clarke rented premises in Ch'en-tu, the capital. Four 
other Fu cities were occupied between 1886 and 1890, 
besides one Chau and three Hien cities. 

The C.I.M. work includes the medical work of Dr. Parry, 
nine boarding and seven day-schools, and not a little vil- 
lage evangelization, besides the ordinary station work. The 
map on the cover will give some idea of the itinerant city 
and village work carried on from Ki'a-ting and other centres 
in this and other provinces. The Statistical Table will 
afford all the additional information our space will admit. 



73 



3 

n> 
<g 

r- r- 


H H 
2- 2- 
L 

en DT 


Ln -* OJ to >-* 




O^ 
? 
uT 




^1 ^Ln 4X OJ to t-t 




P O T ^ p 
* l ~* : (T) 


Cfi 

H 


% g, ^ X g" I M 

Oq 


p. 

on 


Stations. 














EQ^HH 

re' p C ^ n' 

B C B 3 




P P P & T3 (T) B 
C 3CT5 


Rank. 








Work Begun. 


OO CO OO OO CO 
OO OC COVO OO 

^J ^1 ON VO 


CO OO OO OO OO OO CO 
^1 VO OO CO OO OOVO 
^4 O OO CO i-c VO N 


0. 








c. 


OJ OJ 


Out-stations. 


I-H 


OJ 
tl 


OJ VO tO OJ -P- 




OJ 

o 


C7\ ^OJ OJ CO tO M 


Missionaries, Associates, 
and their Wives. 


1 


I 






[' 




Ordained Pastors. 


VO 

W ", 

HH 

to 


o - 


to 




o' ^j 


OJ w w tO 


Assistant Preachers. 




tO I-H 1-1 




c^. 00 


11 hH OJ l-l tO 


School Teachers and 
Colporteurs. 


HH 

\ 


\ 






\ M 





Bible-women. 


VO 




1 




VO 


it to 1-1 On 


Unpaid Helpers. 


to 

On 

to 


CO 
vo 


HH Ln >-( 

I-H ON CO O -^ 




OJ 


-^ 


Communicants in 
Fellowship. 


OJ 

to 


vo 
OJ 


n O\ HH 
i-t Ln. O O "*-J 




to 

vb 


-J l-H Ol 

^1 ^J l-l i-< OJ 


Baptized from 
Commencement. 


1-t 


- 


HH hH )-H M 




- 


M 1-1 1-1 1-1 OJ 


Organized 


Churches. 



H 
O 



si 

o 



c 

a 



21 



CHAPTER XVI 

KIVEI-CHAU AND YUN-NAN 

IvWEI-CHAU. 

'ISITED by Mr. Judd and Mr. Broumton early in 
1877. The latter at once settled in the capital, and 
was soon reinforced. From this centre, itinerant 

work has reached KWANG-SI, HU-NAN, and YUN-NAN. 

Among the converts are a few of the aboriginal Miao-ts'i. 

Other stations were opened in iSSS, 1891, and 1893, 

as well as two out-stations, as will be seen from the 

Statistical Table below. 

YUN-NAN. 

This province was traversed by Mr. McCarthy, on his 
way to Burmah, in 1877, and subsequently visited by 
several others. Ta-li Fu, the first station, was opened 
by Mr. George Clarke in iSSi, and the capital in the 
following year. Missionaries of the Bible Christian Mission 
(who work in association with the C.I.M.) opened Chau- 
tung and Tung-ch'uan in 1887 and 1891 ; and the C.I.M. 
opened K'iih-tsing Fu in 1886. Bhamo (Upper Burmah) 
was opened in 1875. There have been a few conversions 
at each station, but very few compared with the toil ex- 
pended. Where the population is largely Mohammedan, 
this is frequently the case ; and in this and the adjoining 



71 



KWEI-CHAU AND YUN-NAN 



75 



province of KWEI-CHAU the almost universal habit of 
opium-smoking presents a terrible obstacle to the progress 
of the Gospel. We are thankful to learn from Mr. Pollard 
of the conversion of some of the Lolo tribe, and of their 
steadfastness under persecution. 




WOMEN OF AN ABORIGINAL TRIBE. 



CHAPTER XVI 
lill'EI-C/lAU AND YUN-NAN 

KwKT-C!l.\r. 

IS1TE1) by Mr. Judd and Mr. Broumton early in 
1877. The latter at once settled in the capital, and 
^ was soon reinforced. Erom this centre, itinerant 
work has reached KWANG-ST, HU-NAX, and YUN-NAN. 
Among the converts are a few of the aboriginal Miao-tsi'. 
Other stations were opened in 1888, 1891, and 1893, 
as well as two out-stations, as will be seen from the 
Statistical Table below. 

YUX-XAX. 

This province was traversed by Mr. McCarthy, on his 
way to Burmah, in 1877, and subsequently visited by 
several others. Ta-li Eu, the first station, was opened 
by Mr. George Clarke in iSSi, and the capital in the 
following year. Missionaries of the Bible Christian Mission 
(who work in association with the C.I.M.) opened Chau- 
tung and Tung-ch'uan in 1887 and 1891; and the C.I.M. 
opened KAih-tsing Eu in 1886. Bhamo (Upper Burmah) 
was opened in 1875. 'There have been a few conversions 
at each, station, but very few compared with the toil ex- 
pended. Where the population is largely Mohammedan, 
this is frequently the case ; and in this and the adjoining 



KWEI-CITAU AND YUN-NAN 



/O 



province of KWF.I-CIIAU the almost universal habit of 
opium-smoking presents a terrible obstacle to the progress 
of the Gospel. We are thankful to learn from Mr. Pollard 
of the conversion of some of the I.olo tribe, and of their 
steadfastness under persecution. 




WOMEN OF AN ABORIGINAL TRIIJE. 



7 6 



uioaj pszqdBg 



ni 



VO 



N I N 



00 



CO M N N M 



N N ^ N N M 



ID 
>H 

P 
15 

<J 


< 
W 
o 

3 



PITE 



sjojscj psurepjQ 



PUB 



MM | 



. \ rt 
CO O 

H 



u 



H 
CO 



CO 1-1 
O\ O\ 
OO CO OO 00 







tJ) ' ' 
= G S 
rt 3 rt 
>^ XI 
' in tfi 



m HI M o\ r^ HI 

t-~OO CO OO OO ON 
GO CO OO OO OO OO 



1 3 3 



en 

'rt 
O 
H 







& 3 "~B ^ 






^ rt 3 i^ j: 3 






M Csl CO ^ 




HI 04 CO ^- ^OvO 



D 

;* 



rt 




g' 

G .= 3 ^ 
rt J2^ 



CHAPTER XVII 
KWANG-SI: UNOCCUPIED 

THE first C.I.M. journey into KWANG-SI was taken 
by Mr. Edward Fishe and Mr. George Clarke, July 
to September, 1877. A few days after their return 
to Kwei-yang, the former was taken home by severe 
fever. He had hoped to begin work in this province. 
The second and third missionaries designated for work 
in KWANG-SI were also removed by death before they 
were ready to enter it. Mr. (afterwards Dr.) Cameron 
itinerated largely in the province, and several others have 
done so, especially Mr. Dorward, who took a deep interest 
in KWANG-SI. The latest C.I.M. itinerations have been 
those of Mr. Waters, of Hing-i Fu, KWEI-CHAU. 



77 



CHAPTER XVIII 

PROVINCES OPENED FOR SPECIAL WORK 

SHAN-TUNG. 
ORK was begun in Chefoo in 1879, owing to the 




need of a sanitarium for the growing Mission ; 

and the station proving suitable for them, Eng- 
lish schools 1 were formed there, chiefly for the benefit of 
the children of the Mission. Some missionaries, unable 
to work in the south from failure of health, have also 
commenced work in and near to Chefoo. Fuh-shan was 
occupied for a time, but is now an out-station. Ning-hai 
was opened in 1886, and work commenced in T'ung-shin 
in 1889. 

CHIH-LI. 

T'ien-tsin was made a business basis for the work in 
SHAN-SI in 1888; the border city of Hwuy-luh (largely 
for business work, but also for evangelistic effort) was 
opened a year earlier ; and Shun-teh Fu, on the way to 
Lu-gan Fu in SHAN-SI, in 1888. Latterly a station has 
also been found necessary at Pao-ting Fu (the head of 
the river navigation), to facilitate communication with 
SHAN-SI. 

1 An engraving of the Teachers and Pupils of the Boys' School will 
be found opposite page I. 



79 







4^ OJ 10 HI 








i 












OJ tO HI 






a 




JH 


} 








!z!H O 






c 


5 o 
v3 ^ 


3 










5' a O W w 5f 

CfQ CfQ t^* O P ^r 


cn 






(- 

D 


* ' E 


t 




o 

X 






tr 1 m rn t/7 ^-" O 
P_ ^ - -p" . 


> en 








H" 






ffi ! 






o g' 


i " 










* 











"S3 


H g 






. 


. . 


, 




t-H 






* . o . . 


5$ . 






. 


. . 


. 










"5- 


O 


h-5 

















(-J 


2.- 




o 


C g'-p S 








OH H 




t/i 






E, 


cr o o 


Rank. 


. 










C 3 3 








HI 1 1 HI H- 1 

CO CO CO CO 
CO OOVO CO 






; 


CO CO CO 
CO CO ^J 


Work Begun. 


* 




c 


<O"^I *- 


* CO 









ONvO vO 




N 


MM 1 






00 


MM 


Out-stations. 


HI 


















Missionaries, Associates, 


H 


-* 


OJ OJ OJ 10 






HI 


-f^ -^ CX3VO U) OJ 


and their Wives. 




! 






i 














1 










fl 


1 1 1 


Ordained Pastors. 


HI 


_. 1 
1 











W 


HI HI HI 


Assistant Preachers. 








1 








P \ 




1 


School Teachers and 








1 








vO 




1 M 4^ 


Colporteurs. 








1 










V M 


1 


Bible-women. 








1 








1 


1 1 


Unpaid Helpers. 














H- < 

O 

J I 


^t 1 to 


Communicants in 


CO 








O CO 1 00 


Fellowship. 


ON 


to 4^ 








Ln 


CO 1 ON 
W <JT. 1 ON 


Baptized from 
Commencement. 


to 


HI HI 








00 


HI HI 1 M 


Organized Churches. 



O3 

H 



C/) 

H 

hH 

n 



H 
> 
Cd 
r 1 



03 

ffi 



H 
c! 
Z 
O 



S! 
b 

O 




CHAPTER XIX 
A STATISTICAL SUMMARY 

complete the foregoing Statistical Tables, a 
summary presenting a view of the whole is sub- 
joined. In the Tables the number of missionaries 
in each province includes those on furlough who return 
to the same stations. Those who, on account of health, 
were to be appointed to other stations on their return, 
are given at the end of the summary, together with the 
students in China who were at the time undesignated. 
In the number of stations a few arranged for in 1893, 
and opened in 1894, are included, but, of course, without 
any statistics. 



8i 



H 
o_ 

yi* 


S^5a^><5a^<!< BiH 








dQ^W^^K^^WKMM^OWQ 

glll^f I S li? ? 1 1 *f|J> 


Provinces. 


^P ST 

fi> *~^ PJ 




" *s 




. 5' re ?' 


V-^-V'w' 




Work Begun. 


oocococooooocooocooooocoooooocoo 

**4 \O ***J "^4 *^-J "^J ON ON ONO~I Ln 4^ vo \o ***J *^J 


w 
OJ 

i t 


^ IHh-ll-l ^ t-tl-l 1-1 

4^ OJ ^ ON^ W vo to ui y On 10 OO4^ VO OO 


Stations. 


i i 
O 


1 1 l-H 

to OJ TO M ON4^ Oj 1 n Oj i-i vO Oo 
p p 


Out-stations. 


On 

CO 


4s* n OJ tO -t ON OCOJ IO " tO *- Or 1_n '_n 4^ 


Missionaries, Associates, 
and their Wives. 


t-f 

to 


1 1 loj 


| | (j ^, Ordained Pastors. 


1 1 
1 1 
ON 


1-1 OJ l-i OJ O 4* O 


j 4^ OJ i-i on O 4^ o~t 


Assistant Preachers. 


CO 
VO 


w M ^ 


to 


School Teachers and 
Colporteurs, etc. 





I-I M IH bJ 


IIP-, -, 
1 1 i- to O-. to 4^ 


Bible-women. 





tO 4^- 1-1 OJ tO i-i CO 
wvO OJONtOOOon 4^4^-NtOOvO 


Total Paid Helpers. 


HH 

O 
OJ 


1 tO w OJ 
1 tOi-i'O'-aojt-i i-i OO ONOJ to 


Unpaid Helpers. 


to 

OJ 


i-i tOOOtO M OJ 10 OO 
O tO "*~1 On "^ OJ ON O OJ ON4^ ON O 
OOM ojOtoOoOOJ toO4^- Ocui o 


Communicants in 
Fellowship. 


OO 


1-1 tO 

i-i OJtOOJ Mw4^4^tOCO 
^n 4^ OC4^ 4^.tOOO Mi-itOi-ntOON 
ONOJ to 4^ to V 4 4^ On ^j M OOOn OO ON 


Baptized from 
Commencement. 


OJ 


tO OJ ON4^ w On ^ 


^ OJ t/i M O On ON^O 


Organized Churches. 



CHAPTER XX 
EDUCATIONAL AND MEDICAL WORK 

N the sketch of the work in the various provinces, 
limited space precluded reference to the above 
branches. 

SCHOOLS. 

The character of the Mission being evangelistic, only 
elementary education has been attempted. The little that 
has been undertaken by boarding and day-schools has 
been chiefly with a view (i) to influence parents through 
the children] (2) to win girls to CHRIST who may be- 
come useful Christian wives, and to qualify them for future 
usefulness ; and (3) to provide a simple Christian education 
for the children of converts. 

The Mission had in 1893, in eight of the provinces, 
eleven boarding-schools (containing 133 children), all but 
one being exclusively for girls, also twenty-nine day- 
schools, with an attendance of 416 boys and girls. Sunday- 
schools for both adults and children are common. 

TRAINING. 

The training of native preachers has been an object ever 
kept in view. The method the LORD adopted in training 
the disciples has been aimed at as the most effective in the 



EDUCATIONAL AND MEDICAL WORK 83 

early stages of Christian work ; and, so far as carried out, 
it has not proved disappointing. The mistake was made 
at first of employing too many young Christians, and 
supporting them with foreign money; but it was found 
that, while the early results looked very promising, in the 
long run they were disappointing. Unpaid helpers, or 
those employed by the native Churches, are found to build 
up a more substantial and lasting work. 

MEDICAL MISSIONARY WORK. 

The great value of medical missions has been recognized 
from the outset ; and they have been found specially useful 
as a pioneering agency. In this way not only have the 
efforts of the medical staff of the Mission, all too small 
as it is, forwarded the work, but many members of the 
Mission who are not fully qualified have rendered very 
helpful service. 

While some of the medical men have from the outset 
confined their efforts to one locality, others, with the 
happiest results, have given the work a start or an impetus 
in one place, and then have given like help elsewhere. 
For instance, Dr. Douthwaite greatly helped the work in 
Shao-hing in 1874-5, m Kiu-chau in 1876-80; and 
in Wun-chau in 1881, ere going to his present post at 
Chefoo. Dr. Pruen did medical work in Fan-ch'eng in 
1880, then in Chefoo and Ch'en-tu, and of late years in 
Kwei-yang. Dr. Edwards did medical work in Ch'ung- 
k'ing and Ch'en-tu before going to T'ai-yiien. 

On the other hand, the work of one good hospital and 
dispensary, if centrally situated, may affect all the work in 
a province; and, of course, the medical work grows larger, 



84 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

and greater local results are developed, where it can be 
more permanently carried on. For example, Dr. Schofield, 
of T'ai-ytien, had in the first year of his medical work 
(iSSi) 1,527 new out-patients and 3,204 visits, with forty 
in-patients and twenty-five operations. But in the second 
year the work was doubled: there were 3,110 new out- 
patients, 6,631 visits, 105 in-patients, and 292 operations. 
When the Chefoo Hospital and Dispensary were opened 
in 1882, the total number of visits from out-patients was 
3,000, and the in-patients were thirty, whereas in 1892 
there were 9,023 visits from out-patients, 163 in-patients, 
and 292 operations; and in 1893 there were 12,055 visits 
from out-patients, 125 in-patients, and 376 operations. 

As the number of medical missionaries in connection 
with the work has increased, the number of centrally 
situated hospitals has also increased ; and the need for 
temporary medical work as an auxiliary has diminished. 

The medical missionaries who have been connected with 
the work are as follows : 

J. HUDSON TAYLOR, M.R.C.S., Ning-po, Hang-chau, etc. 

T. P. HARVEY, L.R.C.P., Bhatno (Upper Burmah). 

WILLIAM L. PRUEN, L.R.C.P. Ch'en-tu, Kwei-yang, etc. 

and L.R.C.S., 

R. HAROLD A. SCHOFIELD, T'ai-ytien (SHAN-SI). 

M.A., M.B., Oxon., B.Sc. 

Lond., F.R.C.S., 

E. H. EDWARDS, M.B., C.M., T'ai-yiien, etc. 

WILLIAM WILSON, M.B. , C.M., Han-chung (SHEN-SI). 

A. W. DOUTHWAITE, M.D. Kiu-chau, Wun-chau, Chefoo, etc. 

(U.S.A.), 

HERBERT PARRY, L.R.C.P., Chefoo, Gan-k'ing, Ch'en-tu, etc. 

M.R.C.S., 

J. CAMERON, M.D. (U.S.A.), Chefoo, Ch'ung-k'ing, etc. 

J. C. STEWART, M.D. (U.S.A.), T'ai-yiien, Kwei-hwa-ch'eng, etc. 



EDUCATIONAL AND MEDICAL WORK 85 

H. A. RANDLE, M.D. (U.S.A.), Chefoo (T'ung-shin). 
GEORGE A. Cox, L.R.C.P. and T'ai-yiien, Chin-kiang, etc. 
L.R.C.S., 

F. HOWARD TAYLOR, M.D., HO-NAN Stations. 
Lond., F.R.C.S., 

J. E. WILLIAMS, M.R.C.S., GAN - HWUY and HO-NAN 

Stations. 

W. MILLAR WILSON, M.B., T'ai-yiien, P'ing-yang (SHAN-SI) 

C.M., 

Miss A. Ross, M.D. (U.S.A.), Lii-chau (Si-cn'UEN). 
J. W. HEWETT, L. R. C. P., Gan-k'ing. 

M.R.C.S., 

Of the above seventeen, Dr. Harvey's health failed in 
Burmah, and he had to retire from missionary service; 
Drs. Schofield and Cameron fell victims to their self- 
denying efforts for the good of the Chinese ; and Dr. 
Randle joined another mission, leaving thirteen now 
in connection with the work. 

The following, among others, though not fully qualified, 
have rendered important medical service to the Chinese : 

HENRY SOLTAU (since qualified), Bhamo (UPPER BURMAH). 

GEORGE KING (now qualifying Han-chung (SHEN-SI), Lao-ho- 

in Edinburgh), k'eo (Hu-PEH), etc. 

HENRY HUNT, HO-NAN, Ts'in-chau (KAN-SUH). 

DAVID B. THOMPSON, Kiu-chau (CHEH-KIANG). 

JOHN ANDERSON (now qualifying Ta-li Fu (YUN-NAN). 

in U.S.A.), 

G. A. HUNTLEY (now qualifying Ch'eng-ku (SHEN-SI). 

in U.S.A.), 

EDWARD HUNT, Gan-k'ing. 

AUGUST BERG (an apothecary San-yiien, T'ung-chau (SHEN-SI). 

of Sweden), 

F. BURDEN, Tuh-shan (KwEi-c.HAU). 

A. W. LAGERQUIST, Cheo-ch'ih (SHEN-SI). 

The Mission has also about twelve trained nurses and 
accoucheuses, who help the missionaries and the Chinese 



86 AFTER THIRTY YEARS 

as occasion requires. At the close of the year 1893, the 
C.I.M. had seven hospitals, sixteen dispensaries, and twenty- 
eight refuges for the cure of opium-smokers ; besides which 
more or less help of an informal character had been given 
to the sick at all the principal stations. The aim to win 
the soul while caring for the body has been not infre- 
quently rewarded with success. 

In conclusion, the foregoing report of the work in China 
for -the twenty-seven years from 1867 to 1893 inclusive 
shows that the object of locating resident missionaries 
in all the previously unoccupied provinces is still unaccom- 
plished as far as HU-NAN and K WANG-SI are concerned; 
in the latter province workers of other missions from 
Canton have done more than the C.I.M. For Thibet, 
too, less has been accomplished than was hoped. In 
some other provinces there has been, so far, little reaping; 
and, generally speaking, the work is still in a formative 
stage. To judge correctly of the work requires that the 
vast area of the country, the vast numbers of the people, 
and the slow nature of all preparatory work (especially 
in China), be kept in view. Still a foundation has been 
laid; thousands of souls have been saved; tens of thou- 
sands have been interested and have learned the plan of 
salvation ; and the number who have destroyed their idols 
and attend the worship of GOD is ever increasing. The 
workers have every reason, notwithstanding all their weak- 
ness and failure and the difficulties of the work, to thank 
GOD and take courage, assured that in due season they 
shall reap if they faint not. 

FINIS. 



APPENDIX. 



C. I. A. iry North Arqerica. 

In 1888 Rev. J. Hudson Taylor came to America to attend 
the Northfield Convention, by Mr. Moody's invitation, and the 
Believers' Conference at Niagara-on-the-Lake, by invitation of 
Dr. W. J. Erdman. - This was the answer to much prayer on 
the part of a few persons, and particularly of Mr. H. W. Frost. 

After speaking at Niagara he went to Chicago to fulfil 
arrangements made there, and on his return to Mr. Frost's 
home, at Attica, was met by the news to him wholly unex- 
pected that voluntary gifts had been handed to Mr. Frost, on 
on behalf of the China Inland Mission, sufficient to support six 
Missionaries for a year, and two other gifts, which were almost 
enough to support two more. 

This brought Mr. Taylor to God with the question : What 
does it mean? He says : " I asked other friends to pray about 
it, and the thought grew upon me that if God had stirred up 
hearts to give money, He would stir up other hearts to go and 
use it." Soon one and another began to offer themselves for 
the work, some of whom were accepted, and portions of the 
money that had been given were designated for their passage 
to China. In several instances, however, their own friends 
and new friends of the Mission asked the privilege of pro- 
viding for them, and so the original gifts came back to Mr. 
Taylor's hands to be used over again. Thus, in October, 1888, 
Mr. Taylor was enabled to take the first party of fourteen new 
Missionaries with him to China. 

When he was obliged to leave America there were still 
many candidates whose cases needed to be inquired into and 
dealt with ; therefore, a Provisional Council was formed, which, 
on Mr. Taylor's return in the following year, was constituted as 
the " Council for North America," and Mr. Frost was asked to 
take the duties of Secretary-Treasurer. 



The fact that many of the early friends of the work lived in 
Toronto helped to decide the location of the Mission head- 
quarters ; thus, in 1889 Mr. and Mrs. Frost removed to Toronto, 
and established a Mission Home at 30 Shuter Street, with an 
office in the Christian Institute, on Richmond Street. 

In 1891 the work was removed to the present Home, No. 
632 Church Street, and recently the next house, No. 634, has 
also been rented for the purpose of Mission offices and dormi- 
tories for male candidates. 

During the seven and a half years that the Mission has 
been at work in America, God has each year been pleased to 
give blessing and increase, whilst He has not failed to test the 
faith of His servants, that its " more precious proof" may be to 
" praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ." 

In 1895 the Council for North America was permitted to 
send out 28 new Missionaries, and one returning from furlough ; 
and the income, $33,320.41, was about 20 per cent, more than 
in 1894. The total number of Missionaries sent out from North 
America is 102 ; of these, ten have died, five have, for various 
reasons, ceased to be connected with the Mission, four are at 
home on furlough, one has been transferred to the New Zealand 
Council, and the remaining eighty-two are now at work on 
the field. The workers represent almost every evangelical 
body of Christians in the United States and Canada, and are of 
several different nationalities. On the field they have with 
their fellow 7 -workers from Great Britain, Northern Europe, 
Australia and New Zealand been scattered throughout the 
whole of China, ancr^God has owned their labours to the saving 
of many souls. 

The urgent need for haste in carrying the Gospel to the 
millions of Christless homes in China, has led us to pray for loo 
consecrated men from the United States and Canada. The 
Lord has granted the assurance that this prayer is accepted 
before Him, and will be fulfilled in His time. Since that prayer 
was offered, about two years ago, sixteen of the 100 have gone 
to China. Our prayer now is, that God will speedily accomplish 
the full number. We also pray for many consecrated women to 
strengthen the hands of those already on the field in carrying 
the Gospel to the women and children of China. 



PUBLICATIONS 



OF THE 



CHINA INLAND MISSION. 



UNION AND COMMUNION; 

Or, Thoughts on the Song of Solomon. 



BY REV. J. HUDSON TAYLOR. 

CONTENTS : 

Introductory. 

The Title. 

The Unsatisfied Life, and its Remedy. 

Communion Broken Restoration. 

The Joy of Unbroken Communion. 

Communion Again Broken Restoration. 

Fruits of Recognized Union. 

Unrestrained Communion. 

Appendix. 



PRICE, 35 CTS. 




DAYS OF BLESSING IN INLAND CHINA, 




Cloth extra, reduced price, $s cents. 

BEING 

Bible 



ON 

s "The Sufficiency of Christ 
for Life and Service; 

and the 

Hindrances to its 
Practical Enjoyment." 

BY J. HUDSON TAYLOR, ETC. 

REPORTED BY STANLEY SHITH, B.A., AND EDITED BY 
MONTAGU BEAUCHAnP, B.A. 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE C. I. M. 



NOW READY! 



: New Wail Map of China : 

SIZE 32 X 34 INCHES 

Suitable for use in small meetings of Mission Bands, Y.P.S.C.E. Prayer Circles, 
etc., also in the home. This map contains the stations of the C. I. M. It is well 
printed in black on limp cloth, so that it may be folded to carry in the pocket or 
handbag. Cloth, 75c. Paper, 5Oc. Post Free. 

e Story of the C.I.M. 

By M. QERALDINE GUINNESS 

(MRS. HOWARD TAYLOR) 

In two volumes, cloth extra, bevelled edges, with colored maps and illustrations. 

Price, 81.25 per volume. 





CONTENTS 



OF VOLUME I. 

Part I. White unto Harvest. 
" II. J. Hudson Taylor A Retrospect. 
" III. The China Inland Mission : 

Origin and Formation ; 

Growth and Extension ; 

Nevertheless Afterward." 

CONTENTS OF VOLUME II. 

Part I. Progress and the Regions Beyond. 
" II. Inland China and the Chefoo Convention. 
" III. " Oh, Rock, Rock, hast thou opened? " 
" IV. Woman's Work for Woman. 
" V. Recent Developements. 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE C. I. M. 



A RETROSPECT. 

By J. HUDSON TAYLOR 

WITH MAP OF CHINA. PAPER BOARDS, 25 CENTS. 



" From first to last it is full of profound instruction as to the leading of God, 
when His people are willing to tollow and obey. Some of the incidents and facts 
recorded may well seem marvellous to any who have not learned by happy experi- 
ence the inner secrets of fellowship and simple trust in God. The book is deeply 
interesting as a story of the events which led to the formation of the China Inland 
Mission ; but, as we have hinted, it has besides a peculiar value as a testimony to 
the love and faitfulness of God, and the joy of living in close communion with 
Him." The Christian (London). 



C. I.M. Booklets 



5 CIS. EACH, 50 CIS. PER DOZEN. 

Lengthened Cords and Strengthened Stakes. 
The Evangelization of the World. 
The King's Business. 

By Rev. A. T. Pierson, D.D. 

These Forty Years, and information concerning the C.I.M., 
by M. Geraldine Guinness (Mrs. H. Taylor). 

Can't You? by J. A. Anderson, M.D. 



China's nillions' 
Series of Booklets 



No. i. China's Crisis. J.Hudson Taylor. ic. each, IDC. per 
dozen. 

No. 2. Wang : A Chinese Christian. Rev. W. W. Cassels, 
B.A. 2C. each, aoc. per dozen. 

No. 3. A Wayside Testimony. J. A. Heal. 20. each, 2oc. 
per dozen. 

OTHER BOOKLETS WILL SHORTLY BE ADDED. 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE C.I.M. 



THE EVANGELIZATION OF THE WORLD, 

A RECORD OF CONSECRATION AND AN 
APPEAL. 



BY B. BROOM HALL. 



" It is one of the best books conceivable to put into the hands, 
of young men and women. Its paragraphs are a history, a poem,, 
a prophecy, all at once. Short, suggestive, on fire with God's 
Spirit." Dr. A. T. Pierson, in The Missionary Review of the World. 

"That God hath blessed it, we know ; that God will bless it, we 
are sure. It should lie on every drawing-room table, be within 
reach in every clergyman's study, and be given as a present to> 
every Christian young man." Church Missionary Intelligencer. 



TWENTIETH THOUSAND. 
Cloth gilt, gilt edges, $1.25; plain, 90c. 




Colored 




ap of China 



New Edition 
Book Form 

SHOWING the Stations of the China 
Inland Mission, corrected to Jan- 
uary, 1894. Mounted on linen, in book 
form, cloth extra, with List of Mission- 
aries, 6oc.; plain, 350.; mounted on 
board for hanging, 350. 



CHINA'S MILLIONS. 



The Organ of the Mission. 

Published Monthly. Illustrated. 
Annual Subscription, 500. 
3 copies to one address for $1.00. 



THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
LIBRARY 



1 j 353 994 



BY 

3415 

.C56T27 



jForeign Missions 





CHINA IKfLAND MISSION 

GENERAL DIRECTOR, REV. J. HUDSON TAYLOR, LONDON^ ENG. 



COUNCIL FOR NORTH AMERICA 

Home Director *H. W. FROST. 

Treasurer *J. S. HELMER. 

Secretary +-REV. F. A. STEVEN. 



HON. S. H. BLAKE 

*J. R. CAVERS 

REV. T. C. DESBARRES, M.A 

REV. W. J. ERDMAN, D.D 

*WILLIAM FERGUSON 

*J. J. GARTSIIORE 

REV. ELMORE HARRIS, B. A 

ROBERT KILGOUR 

THE HON. R. MORETON 

*REV. J. MCCARTHY 

REV. D. McTAViSH, B.D., D.Sc 

*J. D. NASMITH 

*REV. R. WALLACE ... 

L. M. SWEETNAM, M.D. (Hon. Medical Examiner) 

HENRV O'BRIEN 

REV. H. M. PARSONS, D.D 

DELIAS ROGERS 

! ALEX. SAMPSON 

EDMUND SAVAGE ... 

REV. R. A. TORREY 

REV. THOS. WARDROPE, D.D. 



Toronto, Ont. 
Gait, Ont. 
Toronto, Ont. 
Germantown, Pa. 
Toronto, Ont. 



London, Eng. 
Toronto, Ont. 



Belleville, Ont. 
Toronto, Ont. 



Hamilton, Ont. 

Chicago, 111. 

Guelph, Ont. 

The members marked thus * meet semi-monthly ; the whole Council meets quarterly. 



Mission Home and Offices: 632 & 634 Church St., Toronto, Canada. 

Friends are requested kindly to address all Mission correspondence, and to have all drafts, 
cheques and post office orders made payable to the Home Director, Mr. H. W. 1-rost. U.S. or 
Canadian postagestamps of the ic., 2C. and 3C. denominations may be used when most convenient. 

In the case of a donation, or part of it, being- intended as a contribution toward any special 
object, either in China oral Home, it is requested that this may be stated -very clearly: any 
sums of money sent for transmission to a Missionary, and not intended as a donation to the 
Mission to be applied toward the support of the receiver, should be clearly indicated as for 
" 'f'l'tiitsrrti'ssttiii out;'." 



OTHER COUNCILS AND OFFICERS 

CHINA COUNCIL 

REV. J. W. STEVENSON, Deputy Director 

REV. W. COOPER, Asst. Deputy. Director J. F. BROUMTON, Treas. 

Mission Home and Offices, Woosung Road, Shanghai. 

BRITISH COUNCIL 

THEODORE HOWARD, Home Director 

W. B. SLOAN, Sec. ROBT. SCOTT, Treas. 

Mission Home and Offices, Newington Green, London, N. 

Ladies' Council, London : Miss H. SOLTAU, Sec. 

, _ AUSTRALIAN COUNCIL 

C. T. \VHITRIDGE, Sec. . PHILIP KITCHEN, Treas. 

Offices, 19 Queen's Walk, Collins St., Melbourne. 

NEW ZEALAND COUNCIL 

JOHN WILKINSON, Sec. Offices, Dunedin. 

There are also Auxiliary Councils in Glasgow, Scotland, and in Adelaide and Sydney, 
Australia, while several Missionary Societies in Germany and Sweden are associated with the 
C.I.M. for work in China. 






DIAGRAM OF THE POPULATION OF CHINA. 



The population of China, taking the low estimate of 300 millions, is 
represented by the above diagram, each square representing one million 
souls. 

One twenty-fifth of one square would more than cover all the Church 
Members of all the Protestant Missions in China. 



