100

ONLINE
INQUIRE
DONATE
MENU

Academic Study

Degree Programs Overview
On-Campus Degrees

Korean Doctor of Ministry
Doctor of Ministry
Doctor of Philosophy
Master of Theology
Masters of Arts in Religion
Masters of Divinity General Ministry
Masters of Divinity Pastoral Fellows

Online Degrees

Biblical Languages Certificates
Theological Studies Certificates
Korean Doctor of Ministry
Master of Theology
Master of Divinity in General Ministry
Master of Arts in Religion
Master of Arts in Counseling
Korean Master of Arts in Theological Studies
Master of Arts in Theological Studies

Faculty

Tools + Resources

Montgomery Library

Center for Theological Writing

Community Life

Student Experience
Student Experience

On-Campus Experience
On-Campus Experience

Online Experience
Online Experience

The Westminster Shoppe
The Westminster Shoppe

Admissions

Admissions Overview

Tuition & Financial Aid

International Students

Visit Westminster

Admissions Resources

Compare Degree Programs

Affiliations

About Westminster

Mission & Values

Integrated Approach

History

Jobs at WTS

Ministry Job Opportunities

Westminster Confession of Faith

Resources

Incoming Students

Current Students

Alumni

Faculty & Staff

Initiatives

Framework: Public Theology from Westminster

Westminster Bookstore

Westminster Seminary Press

Westminster Theological Journal

100% Scholarships
Because of our worldwide constituency of faithful partners committed to the cause of Christ, all in-person students undertaking the Master of Divinity or Master of Arts in Religion will receive scholarships that cover 100% of their tuition for the 2025–2026 academic year. 
This renewed commitment is firmly rooted in Westminster’s rich legacy. Under J. Gresham Machen’s guidance, Westminster was founded in 1929 with a view to The Plan for the Theological Seminary, the 1812 original tenets of the founding of Princeton Theological Seminary, which expressly stated that the seminary was to 
"bring to the service of the Church genius and talent, when united with piety, however poor or obscure may betheir possessor, by furnishing, as far as possible, the means of education and support without expense to the student."Today, we renew this commitment for future generations of Westminster students, continuing to trust in God, who has made this possible through the continuing generosity of the saints.
‍

100% Lifetime Access
We are also pleased to announce that all alumni will receive perpetual access to the Westminster-produced online courses that reflect the alumni’s respective degree programs, all at no cost to the graduate. In this way, our alumni can return —during every season of life —to their rich theological and biblical education, or as Machen had it, in that “great central current of the Church’s life—the great tradition that comes down through Augustine and Calvin to the Westminster Confession of Faith

Our alumni have been called to serve Jesus Christ in a variety of ways and contexts. They have sacrificed much for the cause of the gospel. This initiative is critical in serving our alumni as they seek to serve our Lord.

Beloved friends, rejoice and pray with us that the Lord would bless this new opportunity for the building up of His Church.
‍

InquirePartner with us

[email protected]

Connect

2960 Church Road 
Glenside, PA 19038, USA(215) 887-5511[email protected]
Non-Discrimination Policy Diversity StatementSecurity & Fire Safety Report
Resources For

Incoming Students
Current Students
Alumni
Faculty & Staff

[email protected]

Initiatives

The Craig Center
Westminster Magazine
Westminster Bookstore
Westminster Seminary Press
Westminster Shoppe
Unio cum Christo Journal

© Copyright 2025 Westminster Theological Seminary. All Rights Reserved.

Please Upgrade Your Browser.
Unfortunately, Internet Explorer is an outdated browser and we do not currently support it. To have the best browsing experience, please upgrade to Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome or Safari.
Upgrade 

