DOCUMENT_ID: calvin-psalms-preface
TITLE (as printed): Commentary on the Book of Psalms; The Author's Preface [John Calvin to the Godly and Ingenious Readers]
DATE: Latin/French original preface 1557; this English translation 1845-1849
LANGUAGE: en (translated from Calvin's Latin/French by the translator for the Calvin Translation Society; original composed by Calvin)
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://archive.org/details/commentaryonbook01calvuoft (identifier: commentaryonbook01calvuoft)
EDITION: Commentary on the Book of Psalms, by John Calvin, translated from the original Latin, and collated with the author's French version, vol. 1 (Edinburgh: Calvin Translation Society, 1845-1849). Digitized by the Internet Archive, 2007 (funding: Microsoft Corporation). possible-copyright-status: NOT_IN_COPYRIGHT.
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (OCR text as delivered by archive.org's own djvu.txt for this scan; engine/language not stated by the repository; not corrected here). This file transcribes only "The Author's Preface" (the roman-numeral-paginated front matter), not the body commentary on the Psalms themselves, because only the Preface (Calvin's autobiographical account, including his account of Strasbourg) was needed for this dossier.
TOTAL PAGES: preface only, approx. pp. xxxv-xlix (roman numeral pagination as printed; OCR of some running-head numerals is noisy, see note below)
WORD COUNT: approximately 6000 words (preface excerpt transcribed)

NOTE ON PAGE MARKERS: this scan's running heads ("THE AUTHOR'S PREFACE" with a roman-numeral page number on the outer margin) were used as page markers, inserted as [[p. n]] immediately before each running-head line as OCR delivered it. OCR misread some numerals (e.g. "xxxvill" for what is almost certainly "xxxviii", "xvii" for what is almost certainly "xlvii"); these are reproduced exactly as OCR produced them, per Procedure F ("do not correct spelling, do not modernize"). Quote records below cite the nearest legible marker.

[[p. xxxv]]
THE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. 


JOHN CALVIN 
TO THE GODLY AND INGENIOUS READERS, 


GREETING, 


Ir the reading of these my COMMENTARIES confer as much 
benefit on the Church of God as I myself have reaped advan- 
tage from the composition of them, I shall have no reason to 
regret that I have undertaken this work. Having expound- 
ed here, in our small school, the Book of Psalms, about three 
years ago, I thought that I had by this means sufliciently 
_ discharged my duty, and had resolved not to publish to the 
world what I had familiarly taught those of my own house- 
hold. And, in fact, before I had undertaken to expound this 
book in my lectures, at the request of my brethren, I said 
what was true, that I had kept away from this subject, 
because that most faithful teacher of the Church of God, 
Martin Bucer, had laboured in this field with such singular 
Jearning, diligence, fidelity, and success, that at least there 
was not so great need that I should put my hand to the 
work. And had the Commentaries of Wolphangus Mus- 
culus at that time been published, I would not have omitted 
_ todo them justice, by mentioning them in the same way, 
since he too, in the judgment of good men, has earned no 
small praise by his diligence and industry in this walk. I 
had not yet come to the end of the book, when, lo! Iam urged 
by renewed solicitations not to suffer my lectures, which 
certain persons had carefully, faithfully, and not without 


[[p. xxxvi]]
XXXVi THE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. 


great labour, taken down, to be lost to the world. My pur- 
pose still remained unaltered ; only I promised what for a long 
time I had been thinking of, to write something on the 
subject in the French language, that my countrymen might 
not be without the means of being enabled to understand so 
useful a book when perusing it. Whilst I am thinking of 
making this attempt, suddenly, and contrary to my first 
design, it occurred to me, by what impulse I know not, to 
compose in Latin, only as it were in the way of trial, an 
exposition of one Psalm. When I found that my success 
corresponded to my desire far beyond what I had ventured 
to anticipate, I was encouraged, and accordingly began to 
make the same attempt in a few other Psalms. On perceiy- 
ing this, my intimate friends, as if in this way they held me 
bound, urged me with the greater confidence not to desist 
from my course. One reason which made me comply with 
their solicitations, and which also had from the commencement 
induced me to make this first attempt, was an apprehension 
that at some future period what had been taken down from 
my lectures, might be published to the world contrary to my 
wishes, or at least without my knowledge. I can truly say, 
that I was drawn to execute this work rather from such an 
apprehension, than led to it from my own free will. At the 
same time, as I continued to prosecute the work, I began to 
perceive more distinctly that this was by no means a super- 
fluous undertaking, and I have also felt from my own indi- 
vidual experience, that to readers who are not so exercised, 
I would furnish important assistance in understanding The 
Psalms. 

The varied and resplendid riches which are contained in 
this treasury it is no easy matter to express in words; so 
much so, that I well know that whatever I shall be able 
to say will be far from approaching the excellence of the 
subject. But as it is better to give to my readers some 
taste, however small, of the wonderful advantages they will 
derive from the study of this book, than to be entirely silent 
on the point, I may be permitted briefly to advert to a matter, 
the greatness of which does not admit of being fully unfolded. 
I have been accustomed to call this book, I think not inap- 





[[p. xxxvill]]
THE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. XXXVill 


propriately, “ An Anatomy of all the Parts of the Soul ;” for 
there is not an emotion of which any one can be conscious 
that is not here represented as ina mirror. Or rather, the 
Holy Spirit has here drawn to the life all the griefs, sorrows, 
fears, doubts, hopes, cares, perplexities, in short, all the dis- 
tracting emotions with which the minds of men are wont to be 
agitated. The other parts of Scripture contain the command- 
ments which God enjoined his servants to announce to us. 
But here the prophets themselves, seeing they are exhibited 
to us as speaking to God, and laying open all their inmost 
thoughts and affections, call, or rather draw, each of us to the 
examination of himself in particular, in order that none of the 
many infirmities to which we are subject, and of the many 
vices with which we abound, may remain concealed. It is 
certainly a rare and singular advantage, when all lurking 
places are discovered, and the heart is brought into the light, 
purged from that most baneful infection, hypocrisy. In 
I short, as calling upon God is one of the principal means of 
securing our safety, and as a better and more unerring rule 
for guiding us in this exercise cannot be found elsewhere 
‘than in The Psalms, it follows, that in proportion to the profi- 
. ciency which a man shallhave attained in understanding them, 
_ will be his knowledge of the most important part of celestial 
_Aoctrine. Genuine and earnest prayer proceeds first from a 


"sense of our need, and next, from faith in the promises of 


God. It is by perusing these inspired compositions, that 
men will be most effectually awakened to a sense of their 
maladies, and, at the same time, instructed in seeking reme- 

dies for their cure. Ina word, whatever may serve to encou- 
_ Yage us when we are about to pray to God, is taught us in 
this book. And not only are the promises of God pre- 
‘sented to us in it, but oftentimes there is exhibited to us 
_one standing, as it were, amidst the invitations of God on the 
one hand, and the impediments of the flesh on the other, 
girding and preparing himself for prayer: thus teaching 
‘us, if at any time we are agitated with a variety of doubts, 
to resist and fight against them, until the soul, freed and 
disentangled from all these impediments, rise up to God ; 
and not only so, but even when in the midst of doubts, fears, 
- and apprehensions, let us put forth our efforts in prayer, 
VOL, I. d 


[[p. xxxvili]]
XXXVili THE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. 


until we experience some consolation which may calm and 
bring contentment to our minds.’ Although distrust may 
shut the gate against our prayers, yet we must not allow 
ourselves to give way, whenever our hearts waver or are agi- 
tated with inquietude, but must persevere until faith finally 
come forth victorious from these conflicts. In many places we 
may perceive the exercise of the servants of God in prayer 
so fluctuating, that they are almost overwhelmed by the 
alternate hope of success and apprehension of failure, and 
gain the prize only by strenuous exertions. We see on the 
one hand, the flesh manifesting its infirmity; and on the 
other, faith putting forth its power; and if it is not so valiant 
and courageous as might be desired, it is at least prepared to 
fight until by degrees it acquire perfect strength. But as 
those things which serve to teach us the true method of 
praying aright will be found scattered through the whole of 
this Commentary, I will not now stop to treat of topies 
which it will be necessary afterwards to repeat, nor detain 
my readers from ~proceeding to the work itself. Only it 
appeared to me to be requisite to show in passing, that this 


' book makes known to us this privilege, which is desirable 


above all others—that not only is there opened up to us fami- 
liar access to God, but also that we have permission and 
freedom granted us to lay open before him our infirmities, 


which we would be ashamed to confess before men. Besides, 


there is also here prescribed to us an infallible rule for direct- 
ing us with respect to the right manner of offering to God 
the sacrifice of praise, which he declares to be most precious 
in his sight, and of the sweetest odour. There is no other 
book in which there is to be found more express and magni- 
ficent commendations, both of the unparalleled liberality of 
God towards his Church, and of all his works; there is no 
other book in which there is recorded so many deliverances, 
nor one in which the evidences and experiences of the fatherly 
providence and solicitude which God exercises towards us, 
are celebrated with such splendour of diction, and yet with 
the strictest adherence to truth; in short, there is no other 


1 Jusqu’i ce que nous sentions quelque allegement qui nous appaise 
et contente.”—Fr. 








[[p. xxxix]]
THE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. XXXIx 


book in which we are more perfectly taught the right manner 
of praising God, or in which we are more powerfully stirred 
up to the performance of this religious exercise. Moreover, 
although The Psalms are replete with all the precepts which 
serve to frame our life to every part of holiness, piety, and 
righteousness, yet they will principally teach and train us to 
bear the cross; and the bearing of the cross is a genuine 
proof of our obedience, since by doing this, we renounce the 
guidance of our own affections, and submit ourselves entirely 
to God, leaving him to govern us, and to dispose of our life 
according to his will, so that the afflictions which are the 
bitterest and most severe to our nature, become sweet to us, 
because they proceed from him. In one word, not only will we 
here find general commendations of the goodness of God, 
which may teach men to repose themselves in him alone, and 
to seek all their happiness solely in him; and which are 
intended to teach true believers with their whole hearts 
confidently to look to him for help in all their necessities ; 
but we will also find that the free remission of sins, which 
alone reconciles God towards us, and procures for us settled 
‘peace with him, is so set forth and magnified, as that here 
there is nothing wanting which relates to the knowledge of 
eternal salvation. 
- Now, if my readers derive any fruit and advantage from 
the labour which I have bestowed in writing these Commen- 
taries, I would have them to understand that the small 
- measure of experience which I have had by the conflicts with 
which the Lord has exercised me, has in no ordinary degree 
assisted me, not only in applying to present use whatever 
instruction could be gathered from these divine compositions, 
but also in more easily comprehending the design of each of 
the writers. And as David holds the principal place among 
them, it has greatly aided me in understanding more fully 
the complaints made by him of the internal afflictions which 
the Church had to sustain through those who gave them- 
selves out to be her members, that I had suffered the same 


+ Et nous acquiert tranquillite de conscience devant luy.”—Fr. “ And 
Nagas for us tranquillity of conscience before him.” 


[[p. xl]]
xl THE AUTHOR'S PREFACE. 


or similar things from the domestic enemies of the Church. 
For although I follow David at a great distance, and come 
far short of equalling him; or rather, although in aspiring 
slowly and with great difficulty to attain to the many virtues 
in which he excelled, I still feel myself tarnished with the 
contrary vices; yet if I have any things in common with him, 
I have no hesitation in comparing myself with him. In 
reading the instances of his faith, patience, fervour, zeal, 
and integrity, it has, as it ought, drawn from me unnumbered 
groans and sighs, that I am so far from approaching them ; 
but it has, notwithstanding, been of very great advantage to 
me to behold in him as in a mirror, both the commencement 
of my calling, and the continued course of my function; so 
that I know the more assuredly, that whatever that most 
illustrious king and prophet suffered, was exhibited to me by 
God as an example for imitation. My condition, no doubt, 
is much inferior to his, and it is unnecessary for me to stay 
to show this. But as he was taken from the sheepfold, and 
elevated to the rank of supreme authority; so God having 
taken me from my originally obscure and humble condition, 
has reckoned me worthy of being invested with the honour- 
able office of a preacher and minister of the gospel. When 
I was as yet a very little boy, my father had destined me for 
the study of theology. But afterwards, when he considered 
that the legal profession commonly raised those who followed 
it to wealth, this prospect induced him suddenly to change 
his purpose. Thus it came to pass, that I was withdrawn 
from the study of philosophy, and was put to the study of 
law. To this pursuit I endeavoured faithfully to apply 
myself, in obedience to the will of my father; but God, by the 
secret guidance of his providence, at length gave a different 
direction tomy course. And first, since I was too obstinately 
devoted to the superstitions of Popery to be easily extricated 
from so profound an abyss of mire, God by a sudden conver- 
sion subdued and brought my mind to a teachable frame, 
which was more hardened in such matters than might 
have been expected from one at my early period of life, 


Having thus received some taste and knowledge of true 


godliness, I was immediately inflamed with so intense a desire 





[[p. xli]]
THE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. xli 


to make progress therein, that although I did not altogether 
leave off other studies, I yet pursued them with less ardour. 
I was quite surprised to find that before a year had elapsed, 
all who had any desire after purer doctrine were continually 
coming to me to learn, although I myself was as yet but a 
mere novice and tyro. Being of a disposition somewhat 
unpolished and bashful, which led me always to love the 
shade and retirement, I then began to seek some secluded 
corner where I might be withdrawn from the public view ; 
but so far from being able to accomplish the object of my 
desire, all my retreats were like public schools. In short, 
whilst my one great object was to live in seclusion without 
being known, God so led me about through different turnings 
and changes, that he never permitted me to rest in any place, 
until, in spite of my natural disposition, he brought me forth to 
public notice. Leaving my native country, France, I in 
fact retired into Germany, expressly for the purpose of being 
able there to enjoy in some obscure corner the repose which 
I had always desired, and which had been so long denied 
me. But lo! whilst I lay hidden at Basle, and known only 
to a few people, many faithful and holy persons were burnt 
alive in France; and the report of these burnings having 
reached foreign nations, they excited the strongest disappro- 
bation among a great part of the Germans, whose indigna- 
tion was kindled against the authors of such tyranny. In 
-order to allay this indignation, certain wicked and lying 
pamphlets were circulated, stating, that none were treated 
with such cruelty but Anabaptists and seditious persons, who, 
by their perverse ravings and false opinions, were overthrow- 
ing not only religion but also all civil order. Observing 
that the object which these instruments of the court aimed at 
by their disguises, was not only that the disgrace of shedding 
so much innocent blood might remain buried under the false 
charges and calumnies which they brought against the holy 
martyrs after their death, but also, that afterwards they 
might be able to proceed to the utmost extremity in murder- 
ing the poor saints without exciting compassion towards them 
in the breasts of any, it appeared to me, that unless I opposed 
them to the utmost of my ability, my silence could not be 


[[p. xlii]]
xlii THE AUTHOR'S PREFACE. 


vindicated from the charge of cowardice and treachery. 
This was the consideration which induced me to publish 
my Institute of the Christian Religion. My objects were, 
first, to prove that these reports were false and calumnious, 
and thus to vindicate my brethren, whose death was pre- 
cious in the sight of the Lord; and next, that as the same 
cruelties might very soon after be exercised against many 
unhappy individuals, foreign nations might be touched with 
at least some compassion towards them and solicitude about 
them. When it was then published, it was not that copious 
and laboured work which it now is, but only a small treatise 
containing a summary of the principal truths of the Christian 
religion ; and it was published with no other design than 
that men might know what was the faith held by those whom 
I saw basely and wickedly defamed by those flagitious and 
perfidious flatterers. That my object was not to acquire 
fame, appeared from this, that immediately after I left Basle, 
and particularly from the fact that nobody there knew that I 
was the author. 

Wherever else I have gone, I have taken care to conceal 
that I was the author of that performance ; and I had resolved 
to continue in the same privacy and obscurity, until at length 
William Farel detained me at Geneva, not so much by coun- 
sel and exhortation, as by a dreadful imprecation, which I 
felt to be as if God had from heaven laid his mighty hand 
upon me to arrest me. As the most direct road to Stras- 
burg, to which I then intended to retire, was shut up by the 
wars, I had resolved to pass quickly by Geneva, without 
staying longer than a single night in that city. A little 
before this, Popery had been driven from it by the exertions 
of the excellent person whom I have named, and Peter 
Viret ; but matters were not yet brought to a settled state, 
and the city was divided into unholy and dangerous factions. 
Then an individual who now basely apostatised and returned 
to the Papists, discovered me and made me known to others. 
Upon this, Farel, who burned with an extraordinary zeal to 
advance the gospel, immediately strained every nerve to 
detain me. And after having learned that my heart was set 
upon devoting myself to private studies, for which I wished to 


[[p. xliii]]
THE AUTHOR'S PREFACE. xliii 


keepmyself free from other pursuits, and finding that he gained 
nothing by entreaties, he proceeded to utter an imprecation 
that God would curse my retirement, and the tranquillity of 
the studies which I sought, if I should withdraw and refuse 
to give assistance, when the necessity was so urgent. By 
this imprecation I was so stricken with terror, that I desisted 
from the journey which I had undertaken ; but sensible of my 
natural bashfulness and timidity, I would not bring myself 
under obligation to discharge any particular office. After 
that, four months had scarcely elapsed, when, on the one 
hand, the Anabaptists began to assail us, and, on the other, a 
certain wicked apostate, who being secretly supported by the 
influence of some of the magistrates of the city, was thus 
enabled to give usa great deal oftrouble. At the same time, 
a succession of dissensions fell out in the city! which strangely 
afflicted us. Being, as I acknowledge, naturally of a timid, 
soft, and pusillanimous disposition, I was compelled to 
encounter these violent tempests as part of my early train- 
ing; and although I did not sink under them, yet I was not 
sustained by such greatness of mind, as not to rejoice more 
than it, became me, when, in consequence of certain com- 
motions, I was banished from Geneva. 

By this means set at liberty and loosed from the tie of my 
vocation, I resolved to live in a private station, free from the 
burden and cares of any public charge, when that most excel- 
lent servant of Christ, Martin Bucer, employing a similar kind 
of remonstrance and protestation as that to which Farel had 
recourse before, drew me back to anewstation. Alarmed by 
the example of Jonas which he set before me, I still continued 
in the work of teaching. And although I alwayscontinued like 
myself, studiously avoiding celebrity ;? yet I wascarried, I know 
not how, as it were by force to the Imperial assemblies, where, 
willing or unwilling, I was under the necessity of appearing 
before the eyes of many. Afterwards, when the Lord having 


1 Cependant surveindrent en la ville seditions les unes sur les autres.” — 


24 C’est, ascavoir de ne vouloir point apparoistre ou suyvre les grandes 
assemblees."—F'r. ‘‘ That is, not wishing to appear before, or wait upon, 
the great assemblies.” 


[[p. xliv]]
xliv THE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. 


compassion on this city, had allayed the hurtful agitations 
and broils which prevailed in it, and by his wonderful power 
had defeated both the wicked counsels and the sanguinary 
attempts of the disturbers of the Republic, necessity was 
imposed upon me of returning to my former charge, contrary 
to my desire and inclination. The welfare of this church, it 
is true, lay so near my heart, that for its sake I would not 
have hesitated to lay down my life; but my timidity neyer- 
theless suggested to me many reasons for excusing myself 
from again willingly taking upon my shoulders so heavy a 
burden. At length, however, a solemn and conscientious 
regard to my duty, prevailed with me to consent to return to 
the flock from which I had been torn; but with what grief, 
tears, great anxiety and distress I did this, the Lord is my 
best witness, and many godly persons who would have wished 
to see me delivered from this painful state, had it not been 
that that which I feared, and which made me give my con- 
sent, prevented them and shut their mouths. 

Were I to narrate the various conflicts by which the Lord 
has exercised me since that time, and by what trials he has 
proved me, it would make a long history. But that 1 may 
not become tedious to my readers by a waste of words, I 
shall content myself with repeating briefly what I have 
touched upon a little before, that in considering the whole 
course of the life of David,' it seemed to me that by his own 
footsteps he showed me the way, and from this I have expe- 
rienced no small consolation. As that holy king was 
harassed by the Philistines and other foreign enemies with 
continual wars, while he was much more grievously afflicted 
by the malice and wickedness of some perfidious men amongst 
his own people, so I can say as to myself, that I have been 
assailed on all sides, and have scarcely been able to enjoy 
repose for a single moment, but have always had to sustain 
some conflict either from enemies without or within the 
Church. Satan has made many attempts to overthrow the 
fabric of this Church; and once it came to this, that I, alto- 
gether feeble and timorous as I am, was compelled to break 
and put a stop to his deadly assaults by putting my life in 


1 “ Qu’en considerant tout le discours de la vie de David.” —F*. 


iE a 


\ 


[[p. xlv]]
THE AUTHOR'S PREFACE. xlv 


danger, and opposing my person to his blows. Afterwards, 
for the space of five years, when some wicked libertines were 
furnished with undue influence, and also some of the common 
people, corrupted by the allurements and perverse discourse 
of such persons, desired to obtain the liberty of doing whatever 
they pleased, without control, I was under the necessity of 
fighting without ceasing to defend and maintain the disci- 
pline of the Church. To these irreligious characters and 
despisers of the heavenly doctrine, it was a matter of entire 
indifference, although the Church should sink into ruin, pro- 
vided they obtained what they sought,—the power of acting 
just as they pleased. Many, too, harassed by poverty and 
hunger, and others impelled by insatiable ambition or 
avarice and a desire of dishonest gain, were become so frantic, 
that they chose rather, by throwing all things into confusion, 
to involve themselves and us in one common ruin, than to 
remain quiet by living peaceably and honestly.!. During the 
whole of this lengthened period, I think that there is scarcely 
any of the weapons which are forged in the workshop of 
Satan, which has not been employed by them in order to 
obtain their object. And at length matters had come to 
such a state, that an end could be put to their machinations 
~ in no other way than cutting them off by an ignominious 
death ; which was indeed a painful and pitiable spectacle to 
me. They no doubt deserved the severest punishment, but 
I always rather desired that they might live in prosperity, 
and continue safe and untouched; which would have been 
the case had they not been altogether incorrigible, and obsti- 
nately refused to listen to wholesome admonition. 

The trial of these five years was grievous and hard to bear ; 
but I experienced not less excruciating pain from the malig- 
nity of those who ceased not to assail myself and my minis- 
try with their envenomed calumnies. A great proportion of 
them, it is true, are so blinded by a passion for slander and 
detraction, that to their great disgrace, they betray at once 
their impudence, while others, however crafty and cunning, 
cannot so cover or disguise themselves as to escape being 
shamefully convicted and disgraced ; yet when a man has 


. ' Que se tenir quois en vivant paisiblement et honnestement.”—Fr. 


[[p. xlvi]]
xlvi THE AUTHOR'S PREFACE. 


been a hundred times found innocent of a charge brought 
against him, and when the charge is again repeated without 
any cause or occasion, it is an indignity hard to bear. 
Because I affirm and maintain that the world is managed and 
governed by the secret providence of God, a multitude of 
presumptuous men rise up against me, and allege that I 
represent God as the author of sin. This is so foolish a 
calumny, that it would of itself quickly come to nothing, did 
it not meet with persons who have tickled ears, and who take 
pleasure in feeding upon such discourse. But there are many 
whose minds are so filled with envy and spleen, or ingrati- 
tude, or malignity, that there is no falsehood, however pre- 
posterous, yea, even monstrous, which they do not receive, 
if it is spoken to them. Others endeayour to overthrow 
God’s eternal purpose of predestination, by which he distin- 
guishes between the reprobate and the elect; others take 
upon them to defend free will; and forthwith many throw 
themselves into their ranks, not so much through ignorance 
as by a perversity of zeal which I know not how to charac- 
terise. If they were open and avowed enemies, who brought 
these troubles upon me, the thing might in some way be 
borne. But that those who shroud themselves under the 
name of brethren, and not only eat Christ’s sacred bread, but 
also administer it to others, that those, in short, who loudly 
boast of being preachers of the gospel, should wage such 
nefarious war against me, how detestable is it? In this mat- 
ter I may very justly complain with David, “ Yea, mine own 
familiar friend, in whom I trusted, who did eat of my bread, 
hath lifted up his heel against me,” (Ps. xli. 9.) “ For it was 
not an enemy that reproached me; but it was thou, a man 
mine equal, my guide, and mine acquaintance. We took 
sweet counsel together, and walked unto the house of God in 
company,” (Ps. lv, 12, 13, 14.) Others circulated ridiculous 
reports concerning my treasures ; others, of the extravagant 
authority and enormous influence which they say I possess; 
others speak of my delicacies and magnificence. But when 
a man is content with scanty food and common clothing, 
and does not require from the humblest more frugality than 
he shows and practises himself, shall it be said that such an 








[[p. xvii]]
THE AUTHOR'S PREFACE. xvii 


one is too sumptuous, and lives in too high a style? As to 
the power and influence of which they envy me, I wish I 
could discharge this burden upon them; for they estimate 
my power by the multitude of affairs, and the vast weight 
of labours with which I am overwhelmed. And if there are 
some whom I cannot persuade whilst I am alive that I am not 
rich, my death at length will prove it. I confess, indeed, 
that Lam not poor; for I desire nothing more than what I 
have. All these are invented stories, and there is no colour 
whatever for any one of them ; but many nevertheless are very 
easily persuaded of their truth, and applaud them; and the 
reason is, because the greatest part judge that the only 
means of cloaking their enormities is to throw all things into 
disorder, and to confound black and white; and they think 
that the best and shortest way by which they can obtain full 
liberty to live with impunity just as they please, is to destroy 
the authority of Christ’s servants. 

In addition to these, there are “the hypocritical mockers 
in feasts,” of whom David complains, (Ps. xxxv. 16 ;) and I 
mean by these not only lick-dish characters, who seek a 
meal to fill their belly,! but all those who by false reports 
seek to obtain the favour of the great. Having been long 
~ accustomed to swallow such wrongs as these, I have become 
almost hardened ; yet when the insolence of such characters 
increases, I cannot but sometimes feel my heart wounded 
with bitter pangs. Nor was it enough that I should be so 
inhumanly treated by my neighbours. In addition to this, 
in a distant country towards the frozen ocean, there was 
raised, 1 know not how, by the frenzy of a few, a storm 
which afterwards stirred up against me a vast number of 
persons, who are too much at leisure, and have nothing to 
do but by their bickering to hinder those who are labouring 
for the edification of the Church.? I am still speaking of the 

1“ co hh’, . “ps, . 

Sof pte eat ege Ties les frians qui cherchent quelque lippee 

2 Mais encore ce n’estoit pas assez d’estre traitté ainsi inhumainement 
par mes yoisins, si non qu’en un pays lointain vers la mer glacee le temps 
se troublast aussi je ne scay comment par la phrenesie d’aucuns, pour puis 
apres fuire lever contre moy comme un nuee de gens qui sont trop de 


loisir et n’ont que faire s'ils ne s’escarmouschent & empescher ceux qui 
travaillent a edification.” —Fr. 


[[p. xlvili]]
xlvili THE AUTHOR'S PREFACE. 


internal enemies of the Church—of those who, boasting 
mightily of the gospel of Christ, nevertheless rush against 
me with greater impetuosity than against the open adver- 
saries of the Church, because I do not embrace their gross 
and fictitious notion concerning a carnal way of eating Christ 
in the sacrament; and of whom I may protest, after the 
example of David, “I am for peace; but when I speak, they 
are for war,” (Ps. cxx. 7.) Moreover, the cruel ingrati- 
tude of all of them is manifest in this, that they seruple not 
to assail both in flank and rear a man who strenuously 
exerts himself to maintain a cause which they have in com- 
mon with him, and whom therefore they ought to aid and 
succour. Certainly, if such persons were possessed of even 
a small portion of humanity, the fury of the Papists which is 
directed against me with such unbridled violence, would 
appease the most implacable animosity which they may bear 
towards me. But since the condition of David was such, 


ate 


that though he had deserved well of his own people, he was 


nevertheless bitterly hated by many without a cause, as he 
complains in Ps. lxix. 4, “I restored that which I took not 
away,” it afforded me no small consolation when I was 
groundlessly assailed by the hatred of those who ought to 
have assisted and solaced me, to conform myself to the 
example of so great and so excellent a person. This know- 
ledge and experience have been of much service in enabling 
me to understand The Psalms, so that in my meditations upon 
them, I did not wander, as it were, in an unknown region. 
My readers, too, if I mistake not, will observe, that in 
unfolding the internal affections both of David and of others, 
I discourse upon them as matters of which I have familiar 
experience. Moreover, since I have laboured faithfully to 
open up this treasure for the use of all the people of God, 
although what I have done has not been equal to my wishes, 
yet the attempt which I have made deserves to be received 
with some measure of favour. Still I only ask that each may 
judge of my labours with justice and candour, according to 
the advantage and fruit which he shall derive from them, 
Certainly, as I have said before, in reading these Commen- 
taries, it will be clearly seen that I have not sought to please, 





[[p. xlix]]
THE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. xlix 


unless in so far as I might at the same time be profitable to 
others. And, therefore, I have not only observed through- 
out a simple style of teaching, but in order to be removed 
the farther from all ostentation, I have also generally 
abstained from refuting the opinions of others, although this 
presented a more favourable opportunity for plausible display, 
and of acquiring the applause of those who shall favour my 
book with a perusal. I have never touched upon opposite 
opinions, unless where there was reason to fear, that by being 
silent respecting them, I might leave my readers in doubt 
and perplexity. At the same time, I am sensible that it 
would have been much more agreeable to the taste of many, 
had I heaped together a great mass of materials which has 
great show, and acquires fame for the writer; but I have felt 
nothing to be of more importance than to have a regard to 
the edification of the Church. May God, who has implanted 
this desire in my heart, grant by his grace that the success 
may correspond thereto ! 


GENEVA, July 22, 1557. 


ag Gaht Weak ? -muisn lotion (ei 






tip ih dailies finch ert hat + fiylies-2 “a 8 
vd f Deo epee ee tier Syngl Lo exaitee (i ae 
SOE he OS WEA i fui uarhoes} Me ‘otiite ; 


va Raurosts tec Fe pf Lip Bte, a4 mys . Ea | sag 
CRORE aia Ad ep trogtps oh Lowen vr: 


, # (ys 


ite 


eek tei Y Serbo hy 2 eee 








‘uel sie ark SA att 


vi 
fF (if: eud a Le ata Kang vomliga ag 


TUE ROBIN Dok ora LeG i J one eae nt 
PL dred abe re ysl? ‘adh, Aart 7) ris (i Bag 


7 rok ab ped Wives heagte sh Dees 
ey MY tates) ob Bt 
ft big Led Loaiveg ied ce a 


‘ia eee 


TC y we * 
_ 










A iS 


a 


| BOOK OF PSA 


LMS. 





i AT AAM EG Ue: 


COMMENTARY 


UPON 


THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 



